A partly submerged  हिमानी  cave on Perito Moreno Glacier .
the  ice facade is approximately 60 m high
Ice formations in the Titlis  हिमानी  cave
A glacier cave is a cave formed  भीतर  the  बर्फ  of a glacier .
Glacier caves are often called  बर्फ   गुफाएं  , but this term  is  properly used to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice .
In physics , circular motion is a movement of an object  साथ  the circumference of a circle or rotation along a  गोलाकार  path .
It can be uniform , with constant angular rate of rotation ( and constant speed ) ,  or  non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation  .
The rotation around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional body involves  गोलाकार  motion of  इसके  parts  .
The equations of motion describe the  गति  of the center  of  mass of a body .
Examples of circular motion include : an artificial satellite  orbiting  the Earth at constant height , a stone which is tied to a rope and is  होने   swung  in  वृत्त  , a car turning through a curve  in  a race  track  ,  an  electron moving  लम्बवत  to  a  uniform magnetic  फ़ील्ड  ,  और   a  gear  turning  inside a mechanism .
Since the object 's velocity vector is constantly  बदलना  direction , the moving object is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal force in  the  direction of the  बीच   of  rotation .
Without this  त्वरण  , the object would  मूव  in  a  straight line ,  according  to Newton 's laws  of  motion .
Apollo Creed  is  a fictional  अक्षर  from  the   रॉकी  films  ,  initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion  of  the  संसार  .
He was played by Carl Weathers .
Creed had  अनेक  nicknames , including The Master of Disaster , The King of Sting ,  the  Dancing  विनाशक  , The Prince  of  Punch , The One and Only and The Count  of   मोंटे  Fisto .
Urban legend states  कि   अपोलो   पंथ  's name is a wordplay  on  the Apostles '  पंथ  , a statement of  विश्वास   प्रयुक्त  in Christian churches .
All of Apollo 's championship fights were  अनुसूचित  for the 15  गोलाकार   अलहदा  .
Championship fights  किया  not convert from 15  rounds   to  12 rounds until 1987 .
रॉकी  Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing  the  red , white ,  और  blue trunks  ;  Creed was the first man to wear them  (  latterly worn by Rocky  बाल्बोआ  in the 3rd  और  4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine ''  gunn  ( Tommy Morrison )  in  the 5th installment ) although normally he  पहना  red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa 's  हस्ताक्षर  colors  यहूद   ब्लैक  and gold—colors he used in the latest movie .
In the United  राज्य   ,  the title of federal judge usually means  a  judge appointed by the President of the  संयुक्त  States and confirmed by the United States Senate  pursuant  to the Appointments Clause in Article  ii  of  the  United States Constitution  .
in   जोड  to the Supreme  अदालत   of  the United States , whose existence and  कुछ  aspects  of  whose jurisdiction are beyond the  संवैधानिक  power of Congress  to  alter , acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals  (  also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction  over  different regions  of   the  United States ,  और  94 United States district  न्यायालयों  .
Every judge appointed to  ऐसे  a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions  शामिल  the Chief Justice and Associate  justices  of the Supreme Court , Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges described  यूँ  far are  referred  to  sometimes  as `` Article III  न्यायाधीशों  '' because they exercise the  न्यायिक   शक्ति  vested in the judicial branch of the federal government  by  Article III of the U.S. Constitution  .
In  जोड  , judges of  the  Court  of  International Trade exercise  न्यायिक  power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in the federal courts , including magistrate judges and  दिवालियापन  judges , are also  sometimes  referred to as `` federal  न्यायाधीशों  '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the President  nor  confirmed by  the  Senate , and  उनके  power derives from Article I instead .
देखिए   आलेख  I and Article III tribunals .
The  beretta  21A Bobcat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed  by   beretta   in  Italy .
उत्पादन  began in late  1984   ,  solely in the Beretta U.S.A.  सुविधा  in Accokeek , Maryland .
it  is a further development of the Beretta Model 20 , whose production ended  in  1985 .
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to VUL ) is  a  type of life insurance that  builds  a cash value .
In a VUL , the  नकदी  value  can  be invested  in  a wide variety of separate  खाते  , similar  to  mutual funds  ,  and the choice of  जिससे  of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up  to  the  अनुबंध  owner .
the  'variable ' component in the name  refers  to this ability to invest  in  separate accounts whose values vary—they vary because they are invested in stock  and/or  bond markets .
The  'universal  ' component  in  the  नाम  refers to the flexibility the owner has  in   बनाना   प्रीमियम   भुगतान  .
the  premiums can vary  इससे  nothing in a given month up  to  maximums defined by the Internal Revenue Code  लिये  life  बीमे  .
इस  flexibility is in contrast to  पूरे  life insurance  कि  has fixed premium payments  कि  typically  can  not be missed  बगैर  lapsing  the   नीति  ( although one may exercise an Automatic  प्रीमियम  Loan feature ,  or  surrender dividends to pay  a  Whole Life  प्रीमियम  ) .
Variable universal  जीवन   is   a  type of permanent  जीवन  insurance  ,  because the  मौत  benefit will be  सशुल्क   if   the  insured dies any time as long as there is  sufficient  cash value  to  pay  the   लागत  of insurance in the policy .
With most if  नहीं  all VULs , unlike whole life  ,  there is  no  endowment age ( the  आयु  at which the cash value equals the death benefit amount , which for whole life is typically 100  )   .
This is yet another key advantage  of  VUL over Whole  जीवन  .
With a typical whole  जीवन   नीति  ,  the   मौत   लाभ   is  limited  to  the face  राशि  specified in the policy  ,   और  at endowment  आयु  ,  the   फेस   राशि  is all that is paid out .
Thus  साथ  either death or endowment ,  the  insurance company keeps any  नकदी  value  निर्मित  up over the years .
However  ,  some  participating  whole life policies offer  राइडर्स   जिससे   बताएँ   कि  any  dividends  paid  on   the  policy be used  to  purchase ``  सशुल्क  up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value  और  the death benefit over time .
If  निवेश  made in the separate accounts out-perform the general account of the  बीमे  company  ,   a  higher rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no endowment age , continually  increasing   मौत  benefit , and if  a   ऊँची  rate-of-return  is  earned in the separate accounts of a VUL policy , this could result in higher  मान  to the owner or beneficiary  than  that of a whole life policy with  the  same amounts of money paid in  as  premiums .
the  outdoor wood boiler is  a  variant of  the  classic wood  स्टोव  adapted for set-up outdoors while still transferring the  ऊष्मा  to interior  इमारतें   .
A mound of Girl Scout cookies .
इस  mound  contains  74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies  बेची  by Girl Scouts  of  the USA ( GSUSA ) as one of its  प्रमुख  fundraisers  लिये  local Scout  इकाई  .
Members of  the  GSUSA have  महरूम   selling  cookies since 1917 to raise funds .
Girls who participate can earn prizes for their  प्रयत्न   .
There are also unit incentives if  the  unit as a whole does well .
As of 2007 , sales were estimated at about 200 million boxes per year .
University Hall
Purdue  विश्वविद्यालयों   ,  located in West Lafayette , Indiana , is  the  flagship university of the six-campus Purdue  विश्वविद्यालयों   प्रणाली   .
purdue  was founded on  may   6  , 1869  ,  as  a  land-grant  विश्वविद्यालयों  when the Indiana General Assembly  ,  taking advantage of the Morrill Act  ,  accepted a donation of land and  धन   इससे  Lafayette businessman  जॉन  Purdue to establish a college  of   विज्ञान   ,   प्रौद्योगिकी   ,  and agriculture in  उसके  name  .
The first classes were held on  सितंबर  16  ,   1874  , with six  instructors  and  39  students  .
आज  , Purdue is a member of the Big Ten  सम्मेलन  ,  और  is a well known world-class research institution .
Purdue enrolls the second  largest   छात्र  body of any university in Indiana as  खूब  as the  चौथी  largest international student  जनसांख्यिकी   of   कोई  university in  the  United States .
Purdue offers both undergraduate and graduate programs in over 211 major areas  of  study , and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of aviation  ,   having   स्थापित  the  पहला  college  क्रेडिट  offered in flight training  ,  the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation , and  the  first university  विमानक्षेत्र  ( Purdue University Airport  )  .
Purdue 's aviation technology program  remains   एक  of the most competitive aviation-specific  कार्यक्रम  in the world .
in  the mid-20th century , Purdue 's aviation program expanded  to  encompass advanced spaceflight technology giving  वृद्धि   to  Purdue 's nickname , Cradle of Astronauts  .
Twenty-three Purdue  graduates  have gone on to become astronauts , including Gus Grissom ( one of the original Mercury  सात   astronauts  ) , Neil Armstrong ( the first  व्यक्ति  to walk on  the  moon ) , and Eugene  cernan  ( the most recent person to walk on  the  moon ) .
A  वसामय  cyst ( ) is a term  कि   loosely   refers  to either epidermoid cysts  (  also known  as  epidermal cysts ;  l72.0  ) or pilar cysts  (  also  ज्ञात   as  trichilemmal cysts  ;  L72.1 ) .
Because an epidermoid  गाँठ  originates  in  the epidermis  और  a  पिलर  cyst originates from hair follicles , by definition , neither type of cyst is  सख्ती  a sebaceous cyst  .
the  name is regarded as a misnomer as  the  fatty  ,  white , semi-solid material in both of these cyst  entities  is not  sebum  , but  keratin  .
Furthermore , under  the  microscope neither entity  contains   वसामय  glands .
in  practice , however , the  शर्तें  are often used interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts  हैं  relatively rare and are  ज्ञात  as steatocystomas  or  , if multiple , as steatocystoma multiplex .
Modern pointe shoes .
the  edge of the toe pad , which is inserted between the foot and  टो  box for cushioning , can be seen  on  the right foot  .
a   pointe  shoe is  a  type of shoe worn by ballet dancers when performing  pointe   कार्य  .
Pointe shoes developed from  the   ख्वाहिश   लिये  dancers to  appear  weightless  और  sylph  -like   और   have   विकसित   to  enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended  अवधि  of time .
They are  सामान्यतः  worn by female dancers  ,  though male dancers may  पहनें  them  लिये  unorthodox roles such as the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella  ,  Bottom in A Midsummer Night  's  Dream ,  or  men performing as women in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva .
They  हैं  manufactured in a variety of colors , most commonly  in  shades of light pink .
This  tablespoon  has  a  capacity of about 15 mL .
Measuring Spoons
in  the  us  and parts  of  Canada , a tablespoon is  the  largest type of spoon used for  खाने  from a bowl .
In the UK , Europe and most Commonwealth  देशों  , a tablespoon is a type of large spoon  प्रायः   प्रयुक्त  for serving .
In countries where a  tablespoon   is  a  सेवारत   चमचा  ,  the  nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon is  either  the dessert  चमचा  or the soup spoon  .
A tablespoonful ,  nominally   the  capacity of  एक  tablespoon , is commonly used as  a  measure  of   आवाज़  in  कुकिंग  .
It is abbreviated  as  T  ,  tb ,  tbs  , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
The capacity of ordinary  tablespoons   is  not regulated by  विधि  and is subject  to  considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon  (  measurement unit ) is  लगभग  15  ml   ;  the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges  इससे  7 mL to 14  ml  .
In Australia one  tablespoon  ( measurement unit  )  is  20   ml  .
हैरी  Potter is  a  series of seven fantasy novels written by the British author J. K. Rowling .
The books chronicle the  adventures  of  a  wizard , Harry  कुम्हार  , and his friends Ronald Weasley  और   हर्माइनी  Granger  ,   सब  of  जिसको  are students at Hogwarts School of  चुड़ैल  and Wizardry .
the  main  स्टोरी  arc concerns  हैरी  's quest to overcome  the  Dark wizard  रब  Voldemort , whose aims  हैं  to become immortal  ,  conquer the wizarding world , subjugate non-magical  लोगों  ,  और   नष्ट  all those who stand in  उसके   रास्ता  , especially Harry Potter .
Since  the  release of the first novel Harry Potter and  the  Philosopher  's  Stone on 30 June  1997   ,  the  किताबे  have gained immense popularity , critical  acclaim  and commercial success worldwide  .
The  श्रेणी  has also had some  share  of criticism ,  सहित  concern for  the  increasingly dark tone .
,  the  book series  रै  sold about  450  million  नक़ल  , making it  the  best-selling book series in history ,  और  has been translated into 67  भाषाएं  .
the  last four books consecutively  नियत   रिकॉर्ड  as the  fastest-selling  books in history .
a  series of many genres  ,  including fantasy and  coming  of age ( with  तत्व  of mystery , thriller ,  एडवेंचर  , and romance ) ,  it  has many cultural meanings  और  references  .
according  to Rowling  ,  the main theme is  मौत  .
वहीँ  are  भी  many other themes in the series  ,  such  as   पूर्वाग्रह  and corruption .
The initial major publishers of the books  यहूद  Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in  the  United States  .
The books have since been published by many  प्रकाशक  worldwide .
the  books  ,  with the seventh book split into  दो  parts ,  have  been made into an  eight-part  film series  by   warner  Bros.  तस्वीरें  , the highest-grossing film series of all time  .
The series also originated much tie-in  merchandise  , making the Harry Potter  ब्रांड  worth in excess of $ 15 billion  .
Also due  to   the  success of the books and films , Harry  कुम्हार  has been used for  a   थीम  park , The  wizarding   संसार  of Harry Potter in Universal Parks &  रिसॉर्ट  's  आइलैंड्स  of Adventure .
RS-68  होने  tested  at  NASA 's Stennis  स्पेस  Center .
The  nearly  transparent exhaust  is  due to this engine 's exhaust  होने  mostly  अतितप्त   भाप   (   जल  vapor from  इसके   propellants  , hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5C rocket engine
a  rocket engine ,  or  simply `` rocket  ''  , is a jet  इंजन  that uses  तभी  stored propellant  द्रव्यमान   लिये  forming its high speed propulsive jet .
प्रक्षेपास्त्र  engines are reaction engines and obtain thrust in accordance with  न्यूटन   's  third law  .
Since they need no external material to form their jet ,  प्रक्षेपास्त्र  engines can be used  लिये   spacecraft   नोदन  as well as terrestrial uses ,  ऐसे  as  मिसाइलें  .
Most rocket  इंजन  are internal combustion engines ,  हालांकि  non-combusting  फ़ॉर्म  also exist .
Rocket engines as a group  have  the  उच्चतम  exhaust velocities , are by  दूर  the  lightest  ,  लकिन   हैं  the least propellant efficient  of  all types  of  jet  इंजन  .
`` ...  baby  One More Time '' is a song by  अमरीकी  recording artist Britney Spears  .
It served as Spears 's debut single and title track from her debut  स्टुडियो   एल्बम  , ... Baby One More Time ( 1999 )  .
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin  और  Rami , `` ... Baby  एक  More  समय  '' was released on September  30  , 1998 , by  jive   रिकॉर्ड  .
After recording  और  sending a demo tape with  an   अप्रयुक्त  song from Toni  braxton  , Spears signed a multi-album deal with Jive .
`` ... Baby One More Time  ''  is a teen pop and dance-pop  सोंग  that refers to  a  girl  जो  regrets  तोड़कर  up with her  बॉयफ्रेंड  .
The song received generally favorable reviews  इससे  critics  ,  who praised its composition  .
``  ...  Baby One More Time  ''  attained global success , reaching number one in every country it charted .
It  भी  received  numerous  certifications around the  संसार  ,  और  is one of the  best-selling  singles of all time , with over 10 million copies sold .
An accompanying music  वीडियो   ,   निर्देशित   by  Nigel Dick , portrays  स्पीयर्स   as  a student from a Catholic high school , who starts to  daydream   कि  she  is  singing and dancing around the school , while watching her  प्रेम  interest from afar .
The music video was later  संदर्भित   in  the music video of `` If U Seek  एमी  `` ( 2008  )   ,  where Spears 's fictional daughter  is   वेश  with a similar schoolgirl outfit while wearing pink ribbons in her  बाल  .
In 2010  ,   the  music video for `` ... Baby One  अधिक  Time '' was voted the third most influential video in the history of pop music  ,  in a poll held by Jam  !  .
Spears has  performed  ``  ...  Baby One More Time '' in a number of  सजीव   दिखावे  and in all of her  कॉन्सर्ट  tours .
It was  the  encore of the ...  baby   एक   अधिक  Time  दौरे  ( 1999  )  and Dream Within a Dream Tour  (  2001  )  ; Spears  भी  performed remixed versions of  the   सोंग  during the Oops ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) ,  the  Onyx  होटल  Tour (  2004  ) , The M+M  's  Tour ( 2007 )  ,  The  सर्कस  Starring Britney Spears ( 2009  )  ,  और  the Femme  fatale  Tour ( 2011 ) .
``  ... Baby One  अधिक  Time '' was  मनोनीत  for a Grammy Award  लिये  Best Female Pop Vocal Performance  ,  and has been included in lists  by   ब्लेंडर   ,  Rolling Stone  और  VH1  .
It has been noted for  redefining  the sound  of   लेट  1990s music .
Spears  रै  named `` ... Baby  एक  More Time '' as one of  उसके   पसंदीदा  songs from  उसके  career  .
It was also  the  final song to  be  played on the BBC 's music programme Top of the Pops .
हैजा  is an  संक्रमण   in  the small  आंत  caused by  the  bacterium Vibrio cholerae  .
The main symptoms are watery  अतिसार  and vomiting .
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food  कि   रै  been contaminated by the feces ( waste  उत्पाद  ) of an infected  व्यक्ति  , including one with  no  apparent symptoms .
The severity of the  अतिसार   और  vomiting can  सीसे  to rapid dehydration and electrolyte imbalance , and death  in  some cases .
The primary treatment is oral rehydration  चिकित्सा   ,  typically with oral rehydration  समाधान  , to replace water and electrolytes .
If this is not tolerated or does  नहीं  provide improvement fast enough , intravenous fluids can  भी  be used .
Antibacterial drugs are  फायदेमंद  in  those  with  कठोर  disease  to  shorten its duration and severity .
विश्वव्यापी  ,  it   affects  3–5  लाख  people  और  causes  100,000–130,000   मौतों   a  year  .
Cholera  थी  one of the earliest infections to  be  studied by epidemiological methods  .
The  चित्र   of  Dorian Gray is the only published  अनोखा  by Oscar Wilde , appearing as  the  lead story in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine on 20 June 1890 , printed  as  the  जुलाई  1890 issue of this magazine  .
The magazine 's editors feared the story was indecent as  सुपुर्द  , so  वे   censored  roughly  500  words , without Wilde 's knowledge , before publication  .
But even  साथ  that ,  the  story was still greeted with outrage by British reviewers , some of  जिसको   सुझाया  that Wilde should be prosecuted  on  moral grounds , leading Wilde to  बचाव  the novel  aggressively  in letters to the British press .
Wilde  बाद  revised the story for book publication , making substantial alterations  ,   हटाना  controversial passages , adding new chapters and including an aphoristic Preface  जिससे  has since become famous in its own  सही  .
The  amended   संस्करण  was published by Ward , Lock and Company  in  April 1891 .
कुछ   विद्वानों  believe that  वाइल्ड  would today have  चाही  us to  पढ़ा  the  संस्करण  he originally submitted to Lippincott 's .
The novel tells of a young man named  डोरियन   धूसर  , the  विषय   of  a painting by artist Basil Hallward .
बेसिल  is impressed by Dorian  's  beauty and becomes infatuated  साथ   उसे   ,  believing his beauty is responsible  लिये  a new mode  in  his  आर्ट  .
डोरियन  meets  रब  Henry Wotton , a friend  of  Basil 's , and becomes enthralled by Lord  हेनरी  's  संसार   दृश्य   .
Espousing a new  hedonism  , Lord Henry suggests  the  only things  लायक  pursuing in life are  सौंदर्य  and fulfilment of  the  senses .
realizing  that one day his beauty will  फीका  , Dorian ( whimsically  )  expresses a desire to sell his soul to ensure the portrait Basil has painted  होता  age rather  than  he  .
डोरियन  's wish is fulfilled , and when  he  subsequently pursues  a  life of debauchery , the portrait serves as a reminder of  the  effect each act  रै  upon his soul , with  प्रत्येक  sin  प्रदर्शित  as  a  disfigurement of his form  ,  or through a  चिह्न  of aging .
The  चित्र  of Dorian Gray is considered a work of  क्लासिक   गोथिक  fiction with a strong Faustian  थीम  .
Sári Gábor (  born   6  February 1917  )  , known as  ज़ा  Zsa Gabor  (   )  , is a  हंगेरियाई  -born American actress  जो  acted in supporting roles in  फिल्मों  ,  on  Broadway , and occasionally on  टेलीविज़न  .
Gabor was also a socialite .
She  began  her stage  करियर  in Vienna at age 15 ,  और   थी  crowned  मिस  Hungary in 1936 .
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became  a  sought-after actress with `` European flair and style '' ,  साथ  a personality that `` exuded charm and grace  ''   .
Her first movie role was as supporting actress in  प्यारे   to  Look At .
She  बाद  acted in We  're  Not Married !
and played  एक  of  उसके  few leading roles  in   moulin  Rouge  (   1952  ) , directed by  जॉन   हस्टन   ,  who described  उसके  as a  ``  creditable '' actress  .
Besides her film  और  television appearances , she is best known for having nine husbands ,  सहित  hotel magnate Conrad  हिल्टन  and actor George Sanders .
She once stated  ,  `` Men  have  always liked me and I have always liked men .
लकिन  I like a mannish  man  ,  a  man who knows how to  बात  to and treat  a  woman – not just a man with muscles . ''
ब्रूस   ली  ( traditional :  李小龍  ; born Lee Jun-fan  ;  27  नवम्बर   1940   –   20  July 1973  )  was  a  Chinese American martial  कलाकार  , actor , martial arts instructor , philosopher , and filmmaker  .
The founder  of  Jeet  kune   do  ,  ली  was the son  of   cantonese  opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen .
He is widely considered by  टीकाकारों  , critics , media and other martial artists to be one of the most  influential   martial  artists  of  all time , and  a  pop culture icon  of  the  20th  century .
he  is often credited with  helping  to change the way Asians were presented  in  American films .
Lee was  born  in Chinatown , San Francisco on 27 November 1940 to  अभिभावक  from Hong  काँग  and was raised in  कोलून  with his family until his late teens .
He was introduced to the film industry  by  his father and appeared  in  several films  as   a  child  कर्ता  .
ली  moved  to  the  संयुक्त  States at  the  age of  18  to receive  उसके  higher education , and  it   थी  during this time  कि  he  began  teaching martial arts .
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films  elevated  the traditional Hong Kong martial arts  फिल्मी   to  a new  स्तर  of popularity  और   acclaim  , sparking  a  surge of  ब्याज  in Chinese martial  कला  in the West in the 1970s  .
The direction  और  tone of  उसके   films  changed and influenced martial arts and martial arts films in Hong  काँग  and  the  rest  of  the world .
He is noted  लिये  his roles in  पाँच   feature-length  films : Lo Wei 's  the  Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; Way of the Dragon  (  1972 ) , directed and  लिखा  by Lee ; Warner Brothers  '  Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ) , both  निर्देशित  by Robert Clouse .
Lee became an iconic  फिगर   ज्ञात  throughout the world , particularly among the Chinese  ,  as he  portrayed  Chinese nationalism  in  his films .
He  initially  trained in Wing Chun ,  लकिन  later rejected well-defined martial art styles , favouring  बजाय  the use of techniques from various sources , in the spirit of his personal martial  कला  philosophy , which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do ( The Way of  the  Intercepting Fist ) .
ली  held dual citizenship of Hong Kong and  the  United States .
He died in Kowloon Tong on 20 July 1973 at age 32 .
Chronic  obstructive   pulmonary  disease ( COPD ) , also known as  दीर्घकालिक  obstructive lung disease ( COLD ) , chronic obstructive  airway  disease (  coad   )   ,  chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) and chronic  obstructive   respiratory  disease (  cord   )  ,  is  the  occurrence  of chronic bronchitis or emphysema ,  a  pair  of  commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in  जिससे   the  airways narrow over time .
इस   हद   airflow   to   और   इससे   the  lungs  ,  causing shortness of breath ( dyspnea ) .
in   नैदानिक   अभ्यास  , COPD is  पारिभाषित   by  its characteristically low airflow on lung function tests  .
In contrast to  दमा   ,  this limitation is poorly reversible and usually gets progressively worse over time .
copd  is caused by noxious  अणु  or gas  ,  most  commonly   इससे  tobacco smoking , which triggers an  असामान्य   जलन  response in the lung .
The diagnosis of COPD  requires  lung function  परीक्षण  .
Important management strategies are smoking cessation , vaccinations , rehabilitation , and drug therapy  (   प्रायः  using inhalers )  .
Some patients go on  to  require long-term oxygen therapy or lung  प्रत्यारोपण   .
Worldwide , COPD ranked as the sixth leading cause  of   मौत  in 1990  .
It is projected to become the fourth  अग्रणी  cause of death  विश्वव्यापी  by 2030  ,   due  to  an  increase in smoking  दरों  and demographic changes in  अनेक  countries .
COPD is the third leading cause  of  death in the U.S.  ,  and the economic  बोझ  of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion  in  health  परवाह  costs and lost productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie  फ़्रैंक   (  , ? , ;  12  June 1929early March 1945 ) is  एक  of the most discussed Jewish victims of the  holocaust  .
Her diary has been the basis for several plays and films .
Born in  the   नगर  of Frankfurt  am  Main  in  Weimar Germany , she  जिया   सबसे  of her life in or  निकट  Amsterdam ,  in  the Netherlands  .
Born a  जर्मनी  national  ,   फ़्रैंक  lost her citizenship in 1941 .
She  gained  international fame posthumously  बाद  her diary was published .
it  documents her experiences  छुपाना  during the German occupation of the  नीदरलैंड्स  in World War  ii  .
the  Frank  परिवार  moved from  जर्मनी  to Amsterdam in 1933 ,  the  year the Nazis gained control over Germany .
By  the  beginning of 1940 ,  वे  were trapped in Amsterdam by the Nazi occupation  of   the  Netherlands .
as  persecutions of  the   यहूदी  population increased in  जुलाई  1942 , the family  गई  into hiding in the hidden  कक्ष  of Anne 's father , Otto Frank 's , office building .
बाद  two years , the group was betrayed and  transported  to  विशेषज्ञता  camps .
Anne  फ़्रैंक  and her sister  ,  Margot , were  आखिरकार  transferred to  the  Bergen-Belsen concentration camp  ,  where  वे   died  of typhus  in  March  1945  .
Otto Frank , the only survivor of the  परिवार  , returned to  एम्सटर्डम  after the war to find that Anne 's diary  था  been saved , and his efforts  led   to   इसके  publication in 1947 .
It was  अनूदित  from its original Dutch  और  first  प्रकाशित  in English in 1952  as  The Diary of a Young  लड़की  .
It has  चूंकि  been translated into  अनेक  languages  .
the  diary  ,  which  थी  given to Anne  on  her  13th  birthday , chronicles her life from 12  जून  1942  जबतक  1 August 1944 .
Kurt 's  हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald  कोबेन  ( February 20 , 1967 – April 5 , 1994  )  was an American musician and artist , best known as the lead singer , guitarist and primary  songwriter  of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana  साथ  Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen  ,  Washington in 1985 and established  it  as part of the Seattle music scene  ,  having its debut album  ब्लीच  released on the independent record label Sub Pop  in  1989 .
After signing with  प्रमुख  label DGC Records  ,  the band found  भेदन  success with `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind (  1991  ) .
Following the  कामयाबी  of  nevermind   ,  Nirvana was labeled `` the  फ्लैगशिप   बैंड  ''  of  Generation X , and Cobain hailed  as   ``  the  प्रवक्ता  of a generation ''  .
Cobain , however  ,   थी   प्रायः  uncomfortable and frustrated , believing  उसके  message  और   कलाकारी  vision  to  have been misinterpreted by the public  ,   साथ  his personal issues often subject to media  ध्यान  .
He challenged Nirvana 's  दर्शक  with its final studio  एल्बम  In Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years  of  his life , Cobain struggled with heroin addiction ,  बीमारी  and depression .
He also had difficulty coping with his fame  और   पब्लिक   चित्र  ,  और   the   पेशेवर  and  lifelong  personal pressures surrounding himself  और  his wife  ,   संगीतकार  Courtney Love .
on  April 8 , 1994  ,  Cobain was  मिला   मुर्दे  at his home in Seattle , the victim of what  थी   officially  ruled  a  suicide  by  a self-inflicted shotgun  घाव  to the head .
the   हालातों  of his  मौत  at  आयु  27 have  become   a  topic  of  public fascination  और  debate .
Since their debut  ,  Nirvana , with Cobain as a songwriter , has sold  over  25 million albums in the U.S. , and over  50  million  विश्वव्यापी  .
रेडियल  engine timing and  कैम  mechanism .
click   लिये  full resolution animation .
रेडियल  engine  of  a biplane
Master rod (  कतरा  ) , slaves and balances from a  two-row   ,  fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
the  radial engine is a reciprocating type internal combustion engine configuration in  जिससे  the cylinders point outward from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel  .
It resembles a stylized  स्टार  when viewed from the front , and is called a `` star engine '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some languages .
the  radial configuration was very commonly used in aircraft engines  पहले  turbine engines became predominant .
the  Golden Girls is an American  sitcom  , created  by  Susan Harris , that originally aired on NBC from September  13  , 1985 , to May 9  ,  1992 .
अभिनीत  Bea Arthur , Betty White , Rue  mcclanahan  and Estelle Getty , the show centers on four older women sharing a home in  मियामी  , Florida .
It was produced by  witt/thomas/harris  Productions , in association with Touchstone Television , and  पॉल  Junger  witt  , Tony Thomas , and Harris  परोसा   as  the original executive  निर्माता  .
The  सुनहरी  Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won several awards , including  the  Primetime  एमी  Award  लिये   बकाया  Comedy Series twice .
it   भी  won  तीन  Golden Globe Awards  लिये  Best Television Series – Musical or Comedy  .
All four stars each  प्राप्त  an Emmy  पुरस्कार  throughout the series ' run and had multiple nominations  .
The  श्रेणी  also ranked among  the  top ten highest-rated programs for six out of its seven seasons .
Deepwater  खुदाई  is  the  process of  आयल  and  गैस  exploration  और  production in depths of more than  500  feet .
By this definition , there  हैं   लगभग  600 deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico .
It has been  economically  infeasible for many years  ,   लकिन   साथ  rising oil prices , more companies are investing in this area .
प्रमुख  companies  working  in this sector  शामिल  Diamond Offshore , TransOcean ,  और  Baker  ह्यूजेस  .
There  हैं   मूलरूप  two kinds of mobile deepwater drilling rigs : semi-submersible  खुदाई  rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be  performed  from a fixed-position installation such as a floating spar (  मंच   )  or tension-leg platform .
Recent industry analysis has estimated that the total expenditure  in  the global  deepwater   अवसंरचना  market will reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
“Not all  आयल   is  accessible on land or in shallow water  .
You  can  find some oil deposits buried deep under the  समंदर  floor.”  ...  Using sonic equipment , oil companies determine the drilling sites most likely to  उपज  oil .
Then they  उपयोग  a mobile offshore  खुदाई  unit ( MODU )  to  dig the  आरंभिक  well .
Some units are  परिवर्तित  into  उत्पादन   rigs  , meaning they switch from drilling  लिये  oil to capturing oil once it 's  मिला  .
Most of the time ,  the   आयल  company will replace the MODU  साथ  a more permanent oil production rig to capture oil.”  ...  The MODU 's job is to drill down into the ocean 's  मंजिल  to find  आयल  deposits .
The part of the drill that extends below the deck and through the water is called  the  riser .
The riser allows for drilling fluids  to  move between the floor and the rig .
Engineers lower a drill string --  a  series of  पाइप   designed  to drill down to the oil deposit -- through the riser.”
“The expansion of deepwater  खुदाई   is  happening despite accidents in offshore fields ... ”
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 workers and  spilling  millions  of  gallons of oil into  the  Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil  रिग  was  खुदाई  in deep waters  .
“ ... Despite the risks  ,  the deepwater drilling trend is  spreading  in the Mediterranean and off  the  coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural  gas.”
“The  कारण  for the resumption  of  such drilling  ,   विश्लेषक  say , is continuing high demand for energy  worldwide.”
America  needs  the oil so it  is  almost  जरुरी  to face the  ऊँची   risks   कि   आइये   साथ  deepwater drilling  in  order for Americans to continue  to  carry on their  रोज  lives  .
“The Energy  विभाग  recently projected that gulf oil  उत्पादन  would expand from  इसके  2011  स्तर  of 1.3  लाख  barrels a day ,  स्टिल   nearly  a quarter of total domestic production , to 2 million barrels a day by 2020.”
Deepwater drilling affects the  पर्यावरण   in  both  ऋणात्मक  and positive ways  .
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes oil spills it is still a hazardous possible outcome .
आयल  spills result in oil sinking to  the   नीचे  of  the  ocean smothering  संयंत्र  life leaving fish without  खाना  and shelter to survive  .
On the other hand  deepwater  drilling effects the  पर्यावरण   in  a positive  तरीके  too .
In  समय  once the deepwater oil well is  नहीं  in use  anymore  plants will grow on and around  the  well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for  पशु   to  thrive in  .
Deepwater drilling also lets us see the  गहराइयों  of the ocean floor that  हैं  hardly ever  देखी  .
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take photos of rare fish that are in there  प्राकृतिक  habitat , giving scientist a look at animals they rarely  seen”  ( Chevron Corporation ) .  ''
मोनिका  Samille  lewinsky  ( born  जुलाई  23 , 1973  )  is an American woman with whom United  राज्य  President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in  1995  and 1996 .
The affair and its repercussions ( which included Clinton 's impeachment ) became known as  the  Lewinsky scandal  .
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra , ,  (   दिसम्बर  12 , 1915 – May 14  ,  1998  )  was an American singer and film  कर्ता  .
Beginning his  musical  career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey  ,  Sinatra found  unprecedented  success as a  सोलो  artist from the early to mid-1940s after being signed to Columbia Records in 1943 .
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers  ``  , he  released  his first  एल्बम  , The Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946  .
His professional  करियर  had  stalled  by the  1950s  , but it was reborn in 1953 after he  जीती  the Academy  पुरस्कार  for Best  supporting   कर्ता   लिये  his performance in From Here  to  Eternity .
He signed with Capitol  रिकॉर्ड  in 1953 and released several critically  lauded  albums ( such as In the Wee  छोटी  Hours ,  गीतों   लिये  Swingin ' Lovers ! , Come Fly with Me ,  तभी  the Lonely and Nice 'n '  आसान  ) .
Sinatra left  कैपिटल   to  found his  अपना  record label , Reprise Records in 1961 (  ढूंढना   कामयाबी  with  एल्बम  such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding ! , Sinatra at the Sands  और  Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim ) , toured internationally , was  a  founding member of the Rat Pack and fraternized with celebrities and statesmen , including John F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in  1965  , recorded the retrospective September of  my   सालो  , starred in  the  Emmy -winning  टेलीविज़न  special Frank Sinatra : A Man  और  His Music , and scored  हिट्स  with  ``   अजनबी  in  the  Night `` and ``  my  Way `` .
साथ   बिक्री  of his music  dwindling  and after appearing in several poorly  प्राप्त  films ,  सिनात्रा  retired for the first time in 1971 .
Two years later , however ,  he  came out of retirement and  in  1973 recorded several albums  ,  scoring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme  इससे   )   नई   यॉर्क  , New York `` in 1980 .
using  his  लास  Vegas shows  as  a home base , he toured  दोनो  within the United States  और  internationally  ,  until a short time before his death in  1998  .
Sinatra also forged a highly successful  करियर   as  a  फिल्मी   कर्ता  .
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953  ,  he  भी  garnered a nomination for  बेहतरीन  Actor  लिये   the   man  with the  सुनहरी  Arm , and  नाजुक  acclaim for his performance  in  The Manchurian  प्रत्याशी  .
He  भी  starred in such musicals as High Society , Pal Joey  ,  Guys and Dolls and On the Town .
Sinatra  थी  honored at  the  Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 and was awarded  the   अध्यक्षीय  Medal  of  Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold  पदक   in   1997   .
He was the  प्राप्तकर्ता  of eleven Grammy Awards , including the Grammy Trustees Award , Grammy Legend Award and  the  Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award .
सिनात्रा   is  also one  of  world’s best-selling artists of all time , having  बेची   अधिक  than 150 million copies worldwide .
Typical cornhole  फलक
Cornhole  ,  also known as bean  थैला   टॉस  , corn  टॉस  , baggo  or  bags , is a lawn game in which players take turns throwing corn hole bags at  a  raised platform  साथ  a hole  in  the far end  .
A bag in the hole scores 3 points  ,   जबकि  one on the platform  स्कोर  1 point .
Play continues until a team or  खिलाड़ी   पहुँच  the score of  21  .
The American Gold Eagle is an  आधिकारिक  gold bullion coin  of   the  United States .
प्राधिकृत  under  the  Gold Bullion Coin Act of  1985  , it was first released by the United States Mint  in  1986 .
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga  कि  Bikram Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yoga techniques and popularized beginning in the early 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes run for 90 minutes  और   consist  of the same series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises .
बिक्रम  Yoga is ideally practiced in a  रूम   heated  to 105°F  (  ≈  40.6°c  ) with  a   आर्द्रता  of 40 % , .
क्रिस्टोफर  Michael Massey ( born  26  January 1990 )  is  an American  कर्ता  , comedian  और  rapper best known for starring as Michael Barret in Nickelodeon television series Zoey 101 .
Massey  रै  received  अनेक   पुरस्कार  and nomination  सहित   a  Young Artist Award and Emmy  पुरस्कार  nominations  .
he  is  भी  known for appearing in  अनेक  commercials in the  जल्दी   2000s  .
a  conventional teaspoon  बना  of stainless steel .
A teaspoon is an item of  cutlery  and/or a measuring  यंत्र   ,  as well as a unit of  मापन  of  आवाज़  in some countries and customs .
a  fern is any one or more of a group of about  12,000  species of plants belonging to  the  botanical group known as Pteridophyta .
Unlike mosses  ,  they have  जाइलम  and phloem  (   बनाना  them vascular plants ) .
They have stems , leaves , and roots like other vascular plants .
Ferns reproduce via spores  और  have neither seeds nor  पुष्प  .
By far the largest  समूह  of  ferns   is  the leptosporangiate ferns ,  लकिन   ferns  as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) include  horsetails  , whisk  ferns  , marattioid  ferns  , and ophioglossoid ferns  .
The term pteridophyte  भी  refers  to  ferns  और  a few  अन्य  seedless vascular plants  (  see classification section below ) .
Ferns first appear in  the   चट्टान  record 360 million years ago  in  the Carboniferous but many  of  the current families and species did not appear until roughly  145   लाख  years  पहले  in the  जल्दी  Cretaceous (  बाद  flowering plants came to  dominate  many environments ) .
Ferns are not of major economic importance  ,  but some  हैं  grown  or  gathered  लिये  food  ,  as ornamental plants ,  लिये   remediating   contaminated  soils  ,   और  have  महरूम  the subject  of  research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air .
कुछ  are significant weeds .
They  भी  play  a   भूमिका   in  mythology  ,  medicine , and art .
Flat  roofs  in Israel
चपटा  roof  in  Los Angeles
A flat roof is a type  of  covering for a building .
in  contrast to the more sloped form of roof , a flat roof is horizontal or nearly horizontal .
The slope of a roof is properly known  as   इसके  pitch  :  Roofs which are nearly  चपटा  are known as  low-pitch  roofs ( as the angle of  ढलान  increases , so  the  pitch is said to increase )  .
Any sheet of material used  to  cover a flat or low-pitched  छत  is usually known as  a  membrane and the primary purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area  .
Materials  कि  cover flat roofs typically allow the water to run off from a slight inclination or camber  into   a   gutter  system  .
Water from some flat roofs such as  on  garden sheds sometimes flows freely off  the  edge of a roof , though gutter systems are of advantage in  keeping  both  दीवारें  and foundations dry .
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead water directly onto  the   मैदान  , or better  ,  into  a  specially made soakaway .
Gutters  on  larger roofs usually lead water  into  the rainwater drainage system of any built up area .
Occasionally flat roofs  हालांकि  are designed  to  collect water in a pool , usually for aesthetic purposes , or for rainwater buffering .
Flat roofs exist  सब   over  the world and each area has its  अपना  tradition or preference for materials used .
In warmer climes where rainfall is less  और  freezing is unlikely to  occur   ,  many flat roofs are  बस  built of masonry or  कंक्रीट  and this is good at  keeping  out the heat of the sun and cheap and easy to  निर्माण  where timber is not  readily   उपलब्धियाँ  .
In  क्षेत्रों  where the roof  could  become saturated  by   बरसात  and leak , or where water  soaked  into  the  brickwork could  फ्रीज   to  ice and thus lead to  'blowing  ' (  तोड़कर  up of the  mortar/brickwork/concrete   by  the expansion of  बर्फ  as  it  forms )  ये   roofs  are not suitable .
Traditionally most flat  roofs  in  the  western  संसार  make use  of  tar or more usually tar paper  लागू  over  छत  decking to keep a  भवन  watertight  .
the  tar  or  tarpaper is in  फेरे  covered in gravel  to  keep  the  sun 's heat , UV rays and weather off  it  and helps  protect  it from cracking or  blistering  and degradation .
Roof decking is  प्रायः   of  plywood  ,  chipboard or OSB boards ( OSB = Oriented Strand  फलक  ,  भी  known as Sterling  फलक  ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tar coating is applied in one  or  more coats  as  a  hot  liquid , heated in  a  tar kettle , or as  चादरें   of  tar impregnated  'paper  ' glued down and sealed together at joints by  hot  tar - once it has cooled  ,  the gravel is spread evenly over it .
A main reason  लिये  failure of these traditional  roofs  is ignorance  or  lack  of  maintenance where people or events cause  the  gravel to be moved  or  removed from the tar  or  tarpaper waterproofing , thus exposing it  to   मौसम  and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually  जल  gets in  .
Tarpaper is  प्रायः  a 'paper  '  or fibre material  soaked  or impregnated in tar .
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise vertically  इससे  the roof such as on parapet walls or upstands , tarpaper variants  हैं  produced with fine gravel applied  to  the hot  तारकोल  during the process  of  manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck  to   it  in  अनुक्रम   to  give it ongoing protection .
tarpapers  vary in quality  as  does the workmanship and training  of  those applying it  to  produce more or less successful results .
In some micro climates or shaded areas  ये  rather  'basic  ' tarpaper roofs  can  last well in relation to the cost  of  materials purchase  और  cost of  लेटा   उन्हें  ,  however  the cost of  आधुनिक  membranes such  as  EPDM has come down over recent years to  मेक  them more  और  more affordable .
There are  अभी   अधिक  firms  supplying   आधुनिक  alternatives and there  is  generally  a   growing  awareness of their  प्रदर्शन   और   उपलब्धता  .
if  a  लीक  does occur on  a  flat roof then  क्षति  often goes unnoticed for long  अवधि  of time  दौरान  which water  penetrates   और  soaks the decking and  कोई  insulation and/or structure beneath it .
This can lead to  महंगी  damage from the rot  जिससे  often  develops  and if left  can   weaken  the roof structure .
There are also various health risks to people and animals breathing the mould spores : the  गंभीरता  of this  स्वास्थ्य  risk remains a debated point .
एक  problem  साथ  maintaining flat roofs is that if  जल   करता  penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a modern membrane ) it can travel a long way before causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can  be  seen  .
Thus it is not easy to see where it  is  leaking in order to repair it .
Once underlying roof decking is soaked  it  often  sags  causing a further collection or puddling of  जल  in that area and the  प्रॉब्लम  worsens .
A CD-ROM  (  ) is  a  pre-pressed compact  डिस्क  which contains data .
The  नाम  is an acronym  जिससे   स्टैंड  for ``  कॉम्पैक्ट  Disc Read-only memory  ``  .
Computers can  पढ़ा  CD-ROMs  ,  but  can   नहीं   लिखें  on  उन्हें   .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software  ,  including video games and multimedia applications  ,   हालांकि  any data  can  be stored ( up to the capacity  सीमा  of a disc ) .
कुछ  CDs , called enhanced CDs ,  थाम  both computer data and  ऑडियो  with the latter capable  of  being played on a CD player , while data ( such as  तन्त्र  or digital video ) is only usable on  a  computer (  ऐसे  as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs )  .
The Yellow Book is  the  technical standard that defines the format of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of  color-bound  books that contain the technical specifications for all CD  स्वरुप  , the Yellow Book , created  by  Sony  और   फिलिप्स  , was the  पहला  extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It adapted the format to hold any  रूप  of data .
Joanne `` Jo ''  रोलिंग  (  )   ,   (  born 31  जुलाई  1965 ) , pen name J. K. Rowling ,  is  a British novelist  ,  best known as the  लेखक   of  the Harry Potter fantasy  श्रेणी  .
The Potter books  have  gained worldwide attention , won  अनेक  awards , and sold more than 400 million copies .
वे  have become  the  best-selling book  श्रेणी  in history , and been  the   आधार  for a series of  films  which has  become  the highest-grossing film series  in   इतिहास  .
Rowling had overall approval  on  the scripts as  खूब   as   maintaining  creative control by serving as  a  producer  on  the final instalment .
Born in Yate ,  ग्लॉस्टरशायर   ,  Rowling was working as a researcher and  दुभाषिया  secretary  लिये   माफ़ी  International when she conceived  the  idea for the  हैरी   कुम्हार  series on a delayed train  इससे   मैनचेस्टर  to  लंदन  in 1990  .
The  seven-year  period that followed entailed  the   मौत  of her mother  ,  divorce from her first husband and  गरीबी  until Rowling finished the first novel in the series , Harry  कुम्हार   और  the  पारस  's Stone (  1997  ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6 sequels—the last , Harry  कुम्हार   और  the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) —as well as 3 supplements to  the  series .
In 2012 ,  रोलिंग  parted with her agency and resumed writing in the  रूप  of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership  ,   हकदार  The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling  रै   कहा   वो  is currently working on two books—one aimed for  वयस्कों  , the  अन्य  for  children  younger  than  the Harry Potter audience ,  और  she expects the  latter   to  be published  पहला  .
Rowling has led a `` rags to  अमीरी  `` life story ,  in  which she  progressed  from living on state  लाभ  to multi-millionaire status  भीतर  five years  .
वो  is the United Kingdom 's best-selling author since records began , with sales in excess  of  £238m .
The 2008 Sunday Times Rich List estimated Rowling 's fortune at £560 million ( $ 798 million ) , ranking her  as  the  बारहवीं  richest woman in the United  किंगडम  .
Forbes ranked Rowling  as  the forty-eighth most  शक्तिशाली  celebrity of 2007 , and TIME  पत्रिका  named her  as   a   runner-up  for its  2007  Person of the Year , noting the social ,  moral   ,  and political  प्रेरणा   वो  has  दिए   उसके  fans .
In October 2010 , Rowling  थी  named  the  `` Most Influential Woman in Britain '' by leading magazine editors .
वो   रै  become a notable philanthropist , supporting such charities  as  Comic Relief  ,  One Parent Families ,  अनेक  Sclerosis Society of Great Britain and Lumos (  formerly  the Children 's High Level Group ) .
auburndale   is  a city in Polk  काउंटी  ,  फ्लोरिडा  , United States .
The population was 11,032 at the  2000  census .
according  to the  u.s   जनसांख्यिकी  estimates of 2005 ,  the  city  था  a population of  12,381  .
It  is  part of the Lakeland – Winter Haven  महानगर  Statistical Area .
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 )  as  seen from orbit during Expedition 7 of the International Space Station .
The  नजर   ,  eyewall , and  surrounding  rainbands  ,  characteristics of tropical  cyclones  , are clearly visible in this view from space .
A  तीव्र  cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure center surrounded by  a  spiral arrangement  of  thunderstorms that produce strong winds  और  heavy rain .
Tropical cyclones strengthen when water evaporated from the ocean is released as the saturated air rises  ,  resulting in condensation of water vapor contained in the  नम   एयर  .
They are fueled by a different heat mechanism  than  other cyclonic  windstorms  such as  nor'easters  ,  यूरोपीय  windstorms , and polar lows .
The characteristic that separates tropical cyclones  इससे  other  cyclonic  systems is that at any height in the atmosphere , the center  of  a tropical cyclone will be  warmer  than its  परिवेश   ;  a phenomenon called ``  गरम  core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the  भौगोलिक  origin of these systems  ,  which  प्रायः  form in tropical regions  of   the  globe ,  और  to their formation in maritime  तीव्र  air masses  .
The term `` cyclone ''  refers  to such storms ' cyclonic nature , with counterclockwise wind flow in  the  Northern Hemisphere  और   clockwise   हवा   प्रवाह  in the Southern  गोलार्ध   .
The opposite  दिशा   of  the wind flow is  a  result of the Coriolis  फ़ोर्स   .
Depending  on  its location  और  strength , a tropical  चक्रवात  is  referred  to  by  names such as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( )  ,  tropical storm , cyclonic  तूफ़ान  , tropical depression , and  बस  cyclone .
जबकि  tropical cyclones can produce  अत्यधिक  powerful winds and torrential  बरसात  , they  हैं  also able to produce high  लहरें   ,  damaging storm surge  ,  and  tornadoes  .
They develop over  विशाल  bodies  of   गरम   जल  , and lose their  शक्ति  if they move over land  due  to increased surface friction  और  loss of the  गरम  ocean  as  an energy  सोर्स  .
This is why coastal  regions  can receive significant damage from  a  tropical cyclone ,  जबकि  inland regions are relatively safe from receiving strong winds .
Heavy rains , however , can  उपज  significant flooding inland , and storm  surges  can produce extensive coastal flooding up to  इससे  the coastline .
Although their effects on human populations can be devastating , tropical cyclones can relieve drought conditions  .
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward temperate latitudes , which makes them an important part of the global atmospheric  परिसंचरण   यांत्रिकी  .
As a result ,  तीव्र  cyclones help  to   maintain  equilibrium in the Earth 's troposphere  ,  and to maintain  a  relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide .
Many tropical cyclones develop when  the   वायुमंडलीय  conditions around a weak disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable .
The background environment is modulated by  climatological  cycles  और  patterns such  as  the Madden-Julian  दोलन  , El Niño-Southern Oscillation , and  the  Atlantic multidecadal  दोलन  .
अन्य  form when other  प्रकार  of cyclones acquire tropical  विशेषताएँ  .
Tropical systems  हैं   तब   स्थानांतरित  by steering winds in the troposphere  ;   if  the conditions remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
On the other end of the  वर्णक्रम  ,  if  the conditions  around  the system deteriorate or  the  tropical  चक्रवात  makes landfall , the system weakens and  आखिरकार  dissipates .
it   is  not possible to  artificially   induce  the dissipation of these systems with current technology .
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch , ; December 9 , 1916 )  is  an American stage and film  कर्ता   ,  film producer and author .
His popular films include  आउट  of  the   पास्ट   (   1947  ) , Champion ( 1949 )  ,  Ace in the  छेद  (  1951  ) , The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952  )  ,  20,000  Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ) , Lust for Life ( 1956 ) , Paths of Glory  (  1957 ) , Gunfight at the O.K . Corral ( 1957 )  ,   the  Vikings (  1958  ) , Spartacus ( 1960 ) , Lonely Are the Brave (  1962  ) , Seven Days  in  May ( 1964 ) , The  नायक   of  Telemark (  1965  ) and Tough Guys  (  1986 ) .
He is  no.17  on the American  फिल्मी  Institute 's list of the greatest male American screen  महापुरूष  of  सब  time , making him the  highest-ranked  living person on the list .
In 1996 , he received the  अकादमी  Honorary  पुरस्कार  `` for 50 years as a creative  और  moral force in  the  motion picture community . ''
He  is  one of  the  last surviving actors from Hollywood 's  ``  golden age '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger (  born  May 6 , 1945 ) is an  अमरीकी   चट्टान   और  roll singer-songwriter , guitarist and  pianist  .
As  a  locally successful Detroit-area  कलाकार  , he performed and recorded  as   bob  Seger  और  the Last Heard and Bob Seger System throughout  the  1960s .
By the early 1970s  ,  he had dropped the `` System '' from his recordings and  जारी  to strive for broader success with other  विभिन्न  bands  .
In 1973  ,  he put  साथ  The  चांदी  Bullet Band , a  समूह  of Detroit-area musicians , with whom  he  became most successful on  the  national level  साथ  the  एल्बम  Live Bullet , recorded live  साथ  the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo  हॉल  in Detroit , Michigan .
in  1976  ,  he  हासिल  a national breakout  साथ  the  स्टुडियो  album Night Moves .
On his  स्टुडियो  albums , he also  worked  extensively with the Alabama-based  मांसपेशी  Shoals Rhythm Section , which appeared on  अनेक  of Seger 's  best-selling  singles and albums .
A roots rocker  साथ   a  classic raspy ,  चिल्लाना  voice , Seger wrote and recorded songs that dealt with love , women , blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock .
seger   रै  recorded many hits , including `` Night Moves , '' `` Turn the Page , '' `` We 've Got Tonight , '' `` Against the  हवा  ,  ''   और  Shakedown that was  लिखा  for Beverly Hills Cop II and `` Like  a  Rock  ,  '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache  tonight  . ''
His iconic recording of `` Old  समय   चट्टान  and Roll `` was named  एक  of  the   गीतों   of   the  Century in 2001 .
With  a  career spanning  पाँच  decades , Seger  continues  to  perform  and record today .
seger  was inducted  into  the  चट्टान  and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 and the Songwriters Hall  of  Fame  in  2012 .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January  9  , 1913 –  अप्रैल  22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States , serving from 1969  to  1974 , when he became the only president  to  resign the office  .
निक्सन  had previously served as  a  Republican U.S.  प्रतिनिधि  and senator from California and  as  the  36th  Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon  थी   born   in  Yorba Linda ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
He  ग्रैजुएट  from Whittier College in  1934  and Duke University  स्कूल  of Law in 1937 , returning to California to  अभ्यास   विधि   .
He and his wife  ,  Pat Nixon  ,  moved to Washington to work for  the  federal government  in  1942 .
He subsequently served in the  संयुक्त  States  नेवी  during World War II .
निक्सन   थी  elected in California to the House  of  Representatives  in  1946 and to the  सीनेट  in 1950 .
His  pursuit  of the Alger Hiss case established his reputation  as  a  अग्रणी   anti-communist  ,  और  elevated him to national prominence .
he  was the running mate of  ड्वाइट  D.  आइज़नहावर  , the Republican Party presidential nominee  in  the  1952  election .
Nixon  परोसा  for  आठ  years  as   वाइस  president  .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960 , narrowly  खोने  to John  F.  Kennedy , and lost  a  race for Governor  of  California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he  भागा  again for  the  presidency and was elected .
हालांकि   निक्सन  initially escalated America 's  भागीदारी  in the  वियतनाम  War , he  subsequently  ended  u.S.  involvement  in   1973  .
Nixon 's  विज़िट  to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations , and he initiated détente  और   the  Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty  साथ  the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his administration generally embraced  नीतियों   कि   transferred  power from Washington to the states  .
Among other things  ,  he  शुभारम्भ  initiatives to fight  कर्कट  and illegal  दवाएँ  , imposed wage and price  नियंत्रण  ,  enforced  desegregation of some Southern  स्कूलों  , and established the Environmental Protection  एजेंसी   .
Though he presided  over  the lunar landings beginning with Apollo 11 ,  he   scaled  back  मानवयुक्त  space exploration .
He was re-elected by a landslide in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo  ,  the resignation of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series  of   खुलासे  about  the  Watergate scandal and other misconduct by  सदस्यों  of the administration  .
The scandal  escalated   ,  costing Nixon much of his political  support  , and on August 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the  फेस   of  almost certain impeachment and removal from office .
After his resignation ,  he  controversially received  a  pardon  जारी  by his successor ,  जेराल्ड  Ford .
in  retirement , Nixon 's work as an  elder  statesman , authoring several books and  undertaking   अनेक  foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image  .
He  suffered  a debilitating stroke on  अप्रैल  18 , 1994 , and died four days later  at  the age of 81 .
{ { Infobox Senator
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused bitter contention  between  President Grant and Sen. Sumner .
Brady 1869 ]  ]
Sen.  sumner  , opposed to American imperialism in  the  Caribbean and fearful that annexation would lead to  the   conquest   of  the neighboring black republic of  हैती  , became convinced that corruption  lay  behind the treaty ,  और   कि  men  बंद  to the president shared in the corruption  .
As chairman of  the  Senate Foreign  संबंध  Committee  ,   sen.  Sumner initially withheld  उसके  opinion on the treaty on January 18 ,  1870  .
sen.  Sumner had  महरूम   लीक  information from Assistant Secretary  of  State , Bancroft  डेविस  , that U.S . Naval ships were being used to  protect  President  báez  .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against  annexation  and  at  Sen.  sumner’s  suggestion and quite  संभवतः  to save the  पार्टी   इससे  an ugly  लड़ो  or  the  president from embarrassment ,  the  Senate held its debate of  the   सन्धि  behind closed  द्वार   in   कार्यपालिका  session .
अध्यक्ष  Grant persisted and sent messages  to  Congress in favor  of  annexation  on  March 14 ,  1870   ,  and May 31 , 1870  .
in  closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out against  the  treaty ; warnng that  वहीँ  would be difficulty with  the  foreign nationals  ,  noting the chronic rebellion  कि  took place on the island  ,  and the risk  कि  the independence of Haiti , recognized by the United States in 1862 , would be lost  .
Sumner stated  कि  Grant 's use  of  the  u.S.  Navy as a  प्रोटेक्टोरेट  was  a  violation of International law and unconstitutional  .
Finally , on June  30  ,  1870  the treaty  थी  voted  on  by the Senate  और  failed to gain the required  2/3  majority for treaty  ड्योढ़ी  .
The following  दिन  , President Grant , feeling betrayed by  sen.  Sumner  ,  retaliated by ordering the dismissal of Sumner’s close friend J. Lothrop Motley  ,  Ambassador to Britain .
By  पतझड़  , Sumner 's personal hostility to the president was public knowledge , and he  blamed   the  Secretary of State for  failing  to  have  resigned  ,  rather than let Grant have his way .
The  दो  men ,  मित्रों  until then , cooled into bitter enemies  .
In December , 1870 , still  fearful  that Grant meant to acquire Santo  डोमिंगो  somehow  ,  Sumner gave  a  fiercely critical speech accusing the president of usurpation and Babcock of  unethical  conduct .
Already , President Grant , supported by  उसके   सचिव  of State Hamilton Fish  ,   था  initiated a campaign  to  depose Sumner  इससे   the   अध्यक्षता  of the Senate  विदेशी  Relations Committee .
हालांकि  Sumner stated  he  was  an  ``  प्रशासन  man '' , in addition to having stopped Grant 's Dominican Republic  सन्धि  attempt , Sumner had defeated Grant 's full repeal  of  the Tenure  of  Office Act , blocked Grant 's nomination of Alexander  स्टीवर्ट  to  u.S.   सचिव   of  Treasury  ,  and been  a  constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been  willing  to go .
Grant  resented  Sumner  's  superiority of manner  ,  as well .
बताई  once that Sumner did not believe in the Bible  ,  the president is  supposed  to  have   कहा  that he was not surprised : `` he did  n't  write  it  . ''
As the rift between Grant  और  Sumner increased , Sumner’s health  began   to  decline .
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4 , 1871 , Senators  संबद्ध  with President Grant , known  as  ‘’New Radicals’’ voted  to  oust Sen. Sumner from the  सीनेट  Foreign  संबंध  Committee chairmanship .
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form  of  applied ethics  or   पेशेवर  ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems  कि  arise in a business environment .
It  applies  to all  पहलुओं  of business  conduct  and is relevant  to  the conduct  of  individuals and  संपूर्ण  organizations .
Business ethics has both normative and descriptive dimensions .
As a corporate practice and a career specialization , the field is primarily normative .
Academics attempting  to  understand  कारोबार  behavior employ descriptive  विधि   .
The range and  मात्रा  of  कारोबार  ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic  चिंताएं  .
Interest in business ethics  त्वरित  dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s ,  दोनो  within major  corporations  and  भीतर   academia  .
For example , today most major corporations promote their commitment to non-economic values  अंतर्गत  headings  ऐसे   as  ethics codes  और  social responsibility charters  .
Adam Smith said  ,  ``  लोगों   of  the  वही  trade seldom meet together  ,  even  लिये  merriment and diversion , but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public , or in some contrivance to raise prices .  ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point business behavior in what  वे  perceive  to  be beneficial directions  .
Ethics implicitly regulates areas and details of  बर्ताव  that  झूठ  beyond  सरकारी  control .
the  emergence of large  corporations   साथ  limited relationships and  संवेदनशीलता  to the  समुदायों  in which they operate accelerated the development of formal  आचार  regimes .
A burn is a type of  चोट   to  flesh or skin  caused  by heat , electricity , chemicals , friction , or  विकिरण  .
Most burns  affect  only the superficial skin ( known as  सतही   or  first degree  )  or extend  into   the  deeper skin but do not involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as  आंशिक  thickness or second degree )  .
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper  ऊतकों  , such as muscle or bone can be injured in which case the burn is  either  full  मोटाई   (  third degree  )   or  fourth degree .
The treatment required depends  on  the severity of the burn .
सतही  burns maybe managed with little more than simple pain killers while  प्रमुख  burns may require prolonged treatment in specialized  बर्न  centers  .
Cooling with tap water may  सहायता  pain and decrease damage however if exposure is prolonged it  may   परिणाम   in  low body temperature .
Partial  मोटाई  burns may  आवश्यकता  cleaning  साथ  soap  और  water followed by dressings  .
Blisters should  typically  be left unbroken .
Full thickness burns usually require surgical treatments  ऐसे   as   स्किन  grafting and extensive burns often require large amount of intravenous fluids .
The most common complications  of  burns  हैं  related to infection .
While large  burns  can be fatal , modern  उपचार  developed in the last  50  years  have  significantly improved the outcomes , especially in children and young adults  .
Globally about 11 million  लोगों  seek medical treatment and 300,000 people die from burns .
In the  संयुक्त  States , of those  admitted  to a burn center ,  लगभग  4 % die from their injuries .
The long term outcome is primarily  सम्बन्धित   to  the size of  बर्न  and the age of the person  effected  .
The  अटलांटिक  Ocean , not including  आर्कटिक  and  अंटार्कटिक  regions
This video was taken  by  the crew of Expedition  29   on  board the ISS .
The  pass  starts  इससे  just north-east  of   the  Island of Newfoundland over  the   उत्तर  Atlantic Ocean to central Africa , over  दक्षिण  Sudan .
The Atlantic  समंदर  is the second-largest of the world 's oceanic divisions .
With a total area of about ,  it  covers  लगभग  20 percent  of  the Earth 's  सतह  and  परिचय  29 percent  of  its water surface  क्षेत्रफल  .
the  first part  of   इसके  name refers to Atlas of Greek mythology , making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas  ''  .
The oldest known mention of  ``  Atlantic '' is in  the  Histories  of  Herodotus around 450 BC (  hdt  .  1.202.4  ) : Atlantis thalassa ( Greek : Ἀτλαντὶς  θάλασσα  ; English : Sea of Atlas )  .
the   पद  Ethiopic Ocean ,  निकला  from Ethiopia , was  लागू  to the southern  अटलांटिक  as late as the mid-19th century .
Before Europeans discovered other oceans ,  the  term `` ocean '' itself  थी  synonymous with the waters beyond the Strait of Gibraltar that  we   अभी   जान  as the  अटलांटिक  .
The early  यूनानियों   believed  this ocean to be a  gigantic   नदी  encircling the world .
The Atlantic Ocean  occupies   an  elongated , S-shaped basin extending  longitudinally  between  यूरेशिया   और  Africa to  the  east ,  और  the Americas to  the   वेस्ट   .
As  एक  component of the interconnected  वैश्विक  ocean , it  is  connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes considered a  समुद्र  of the Atlantic )  ,  to  the  Pacific Ocean in the southwest , the Indian Ocean in the southeast ,  और   the  Southern Ocean in the south .
(  अन्य   परिभाषाएं  describe  the  Atlantic as extending southward to Antarctica . )
The  equator  subdivides it into the North Atlantic Ocean and South  अटलांटिक  Ocean .
Due to their  long-term   हठ  , and the  need  for a  अद्वितीय  identifier in  issuing  forecasts  और   चेतावनियाँ  ,  तीव्र  cyclones  और  subtropical cyclones are given names according to  नीति  (  देखिए  Tropical cyclone naming ) .
the  following  हैं  lists from which these tropical and subtropical cyclone names are  निकला  .
श्वेत  light is dispersed  by  a prism into the colors  of  the optical spectrum .
The visible spectrum is the portion of the electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम  that is visible to ( can be detected by  )  the human  नजर  .
Electromagnetic radiation  in  this range of wavelengths is called visible  लाइट   or  simply  लाइट  .
A  ठेठ  human eye  होगा  respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm .
In  शर्तें  of frequency ,  इस  corresponds to  a  band in  the   vicinity  of  430–790  THz .
A light-adapted eye generally has  इसके  maximum sensitivity at around 555  nm  ( 540 THz ) , in the green region of the optical spectrum (  देखिए  : luminosity function ) .
The spectrum does not , however , contain all the colors that the human eyes and brain can distinguish .
असंतृप्त  colors such as pink , or purple variations such as magenta ,  हैं   अनुपस्थित   ,   लिये  example , because  वे  can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths  .
Colors  containing   तभी  one wavelength are also called pure colors .
Visible wavelengths pass  through   the  `` optical window `` ,  the  region of the electromagnetic spectrum  जिससे  allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
an  example of  इस  phenomenon is that  साफ  air  scatters  blue light more than red wavelengths ,  और  so  the  midday sky appears blue .
The optical window is also  पुकारा  the visible window because it overlaps the human visible  जवाब  spectrum .
The  निकट  infrared  (  NIR ) window lies just  आउट  of the human vision ,  as  well as the  मीडियम  Wavelength  ir  ( MWIR ) window and  the  Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals  may  experience them .
Many species  can   देखिए   लाइट  with  बारंबारता  outside  the  `` visible  वर्णक्रम  , '' which is defined  in   शर्तें  of  इंसान  vision .
Bees and many other insects can detect ultraviolet light , which helps  उन्हें  find nectar  in  flowers .
Plant  प्रजाति  that depend on insect  परागण  may owe  reproductive  success to their appearance in ultraviolet light , rather than how colorful they appear to humans .
पक्षियों  , too , can see  into   the   पराबैंगनी   (  300–400 nm )  ,  and some have sex-dependent markings  on  their plumage  कि   हैं  visible  तभी   in  the ultraviolet range .
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet range , however  ,  can not  देखिए   रेड   लाइट  or any other reddish wavelengths .
Bees  '  visible spectrum ends at about 590nm  ,  just  पहले   the   नारंगी  wavelengths start .
Birds , however  ,  can  देखिए  some  रेड   wavelengths  , but not as many as  इंसानो   .
Zebras  (   or  ) are several species of African equids ( horse family ) united by their distinctive black and white stripes .
Their stripes come in different patterns , unique to each individual .
वे  are  generally   सोशल  animals that  सजीव  in small harems  to  large herds .
Unlike their closest  रिश्तेदारों  , horses and asses , zebras have never been truly domesticated .
There are three  प्रजाति  of zebras : the plains zebra , the Grévy  's  zebra  और  the mountain zebra .
the  plains zebra  और  the  पहाड़  zebra belong  to  the subgenus Hippotigris , but Grévy 's  जेब्रा  is the sole species of subgenus  dolichohippus  .
The latter resembles an ass ,  to  which it is closely related , while the former two are more horse-like .
All  तीन  belong to the  genus   equus  ,  साथ  with other living equids .
the   अद्वितीय   धारियाँ  of  zebras  make them one of  the  animals most familiar to people .
They occur in a variety of habitats , such  as  grasslands , savannas , woodlands , thorny scrublands , mountains , and coastal  पहाड़ियाँ  .
However  ,  various anthropogenic factors have had  a  severe impact on zebra populations  ,  in particular hunting for skins  और  habitat destruction .
Grévy 's  जेब्रा  and the mountain zebra are endangered .
जबकि  plains zebras are much more plentiful , one subspecies , the quagga , became extinct in the late 19th century – though  वहीँ  is currently a  योजना  , called  the  Quagga Project  ,   कि  aims to  नस्ल  zebras  कि  are  phenotypically  similar  to  the  quagga  in a process  पुकारा  breeding back .
Barry White , born Barry  यूजीन  Carter ( – )  ,  was an American composer and singer-songwriter .
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic  चित्र  ,  श्वेत  's greatest success came  in  the  1970s  as a solo singer  और  with the  प्रेम  Unlimited Orchestra , crafting many enduring soul ,  दुर्गंध  ,  और  disco songs such as  उसके  two biggest  हिट्स  , `` You 're the First ,  the   पिछला  , My Everything  ``   और  `` Ca n't Get  पर्याप्त  of Your Love , Babe . ''
Along with  इसहाक़   हेज़  , White is  माना  by Allmusic.com as a  पायोनियर  of disco music in  the  early 1970s .
During the course of his career  in  the music  कारोबार   ,  White achieved 106 gold albums worldwide  ,  41  of  which also attained platinum  औकात  .
श्वेत  had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles  ,  with worldwide sales in  excess  of  100  million , according to critics Ed Hogan and  वेड  Kergan .
His influences included Rev  .   जेम्स  Cleveland  ,  Ray Charles ,  एरीथा  Franklin plus Motown  कलाकारों  The Supremes ,  the  Four Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina  जोली  ( , born  एंजेलीना  Jolie Voight ; June 4 , 1975  )  is  an  American  अभिनेत्री  , film director , and screenwriter .
वो   रै  received an Academy Award , two Screen Actors Guild Awards  ,  and  तीन  Golden Globe Awards ,  और   थी  named Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes  in  2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes  ,  and is  विख्यात  for her work with  शरणार्थियों  as a Special  envoy   और  former Goodwill Ambassador for the  संयुक्त  Nations  ऊँची  Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR )  .
She has often been cited  as  the  संसार  's `` most beautiful  ''  woman ,  a  title for which she has received substantial  मीडिया   ध्यान  .
जोली  made her screen debut as a child  alongside  her father Jon  वोइट  in Lookin ' to Get Out ( 1982 ) , but  उसके  film  करियर   began  in earnest a decade later with  the  low-budget production  साइबोर्ग  2 (  1993  ) .
Her first leading role in  a   प्रमुख   फिल्मी  was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred  in   the  critically acclaimed biographical  टेलीविज़न  films George Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia (  1998  ) , and  जीती  an  अकादमी  Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama  लड़की  , Interrupted (  1999  )  .
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video game heroine  लारा  Croft in Lara Croft : Tomb  रेडर  (  2001  )  ,   और  established herself among the highest-paid actresses in  हॉलीवुड  with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She continued her action star  करियर  with Mr. & Mrs. Smith  (  2005  )  and Wanted ( 2008  )  —her biggest  non-animated  commercial successes to date—and received further critical acclaim for her  प्रदर्शन  in  the  dramas A Mighty  दिल  (  2007  )  और  Changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress .
Jolie  बना  her directorial debut  साथ  the wartime drama In the Land of Blood and Honey  (   2011  )  .
Divorced  इससे   अभिनेताओं  Jonny Lee Miller and  बिली  Bob  थॉर्नटन  , Jolie now lives with  कर्ता  Brad Pitt , in  a   संबंध  notable for fervent media attention .
Jolie  और  Pitt have three biological children  और  three adopted children .
A natural arch produced by the erosion of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil  और  rock are  removed   इससे   the  Earth  's  surface by exogenetic processes such as wind  or   जल  flow , and then transported and deposited in other locations  .
While erosion is a natural process  ,  human activities have increased by 10-40  टाइम्स  the rate at which  अपरदन  is  occurring  globally .
Excessive  अपरदन  causes problems such as desertification , decreases in agricultural productivity due to  जमीन   degradation  , sedimentation  of   जलमार्गों  , and ecological  पतन  due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of land degradation  ;  combined , they are responsible  लिये  84 %  of  degraded acreage , making excessive erosion one of the  सबसे  significant global environmental problems  .
औद्योगिक  agriculture , deforestation , roads , anthropogenic climate change and urban sprawl  हैं  amongst the  सबसे  significant human activities in regard to their  प्रभाव  on stimulating erosion  .
However  ,  there are many available  वैकल्पिक   जमीन  use practices that  can  curtail or limit erosion , such as terrace -building , no-till agriculture ,  और  revegetation  of  denuded soils .
Jersey Shore  is  an American reality television series  जिससे  ran on  एमटीवी  from December 3  ,  2009 to December 20 , 2012 in the United States .
The  श्रेणी  follows  the  lives of eight housemates spending  उनके   गर्मियाँ  at the Jersey Shore in the U.S. state of New  जर्सी   .
Season 2 followed the cast  escaping  the cold northeast winter to Miami Beach ,  साथ  Season  3   returning  to the Jersey Shore .
The fourth season  ,  filmed in Italy , premiered on August 4 , 2011 .
The  दिखाएँ  returned for a fifth season , at Seaside Heights on January 5 , 2012 .
The fifth season finale aired  on  March 15 , 2012 .
On March  19  ,  2012   ,  MTV confirmed  कि   the  series would return for  उनके  sixth season .
On August 30  ,   2012   ,  MTV announced that the series will end after the sixth season  ,  which premiered on  अक्तूबर  4 .
The series finale aired on December 20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy  regarding  the use of the  शब्द   ``  Guido  /  Guidette ,  ''  portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes , and  scrutiny  from locals  क्युकी  the cast members were not residents of the area  .
The  श्रेणी   garnered  record ratings for MTV , making  it   the  network 's most viewed series telecast ever .
The series  '  cast have also been credited with introducing unique lexicon and phrases  into   अमरीकी  popular culture .
the  University of Chicago and  the  University of Oklahoma  हैं  among the educational institutions  कि  have had classes or conferences about the  दिखाएँ  .
In  2010  , the cast of  जर्सी   shore  was  नामित   on  Barbara Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People  सूची  , and the series has since  महरूम  exported to  दर्जनों  of countries worldwide .
There  हैं  several remakes of the show  in  other countries , with  दो  set in the United Kingdom  ;  the well known  geordie  Shore , set in Newcastle upon  tyne   ,   इंग्लैण्ड  .
The  अन्य   is  The  घाटियों  , the Welsh equivalent , which  is  filmed  और   नियत  in Cardiff .
The only  अन्य  official remake of  the   दिखाएँ   is   gandía   shore  , set in Gandía , Spain .
right
United States territory  is  any extent  of  region under the jurisdiction  of   the  federal government of the United States  ,  including all waters (  around  islands or continental  tracts  )  और  all  u.s  . Naval vessels .
The United  राज्य  has traditionally proclaimed  the  sovereign rights for exploring , exploiting , conserving , and managing  इसके  territory .
This extent of territory is  सब   the  area belonging to , and under the dominion of , the United States  संघीय   सरकारी  ( which includes tracts lying at  a  distance from the country ) for  प्रशासनिक  and other purposes .
The United States total territory includes a subset of  राजनैतिक  divisions .
the   u.S.  government is a  सरकारी  with delegated powers under the United States  संविधान  .
``  the  powers not  प्रतिनिधित्व  to the United States by the Constitution , nor prohibited  by  it  to  the States , are reserved to  the  States respectively , or to  the   लोगों  '' by the Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of  the  Machines ( commonly abbreviated as  t3  ) is a 2003 science fiction  कार्रवाई  film directed by Jonathan  mostow  and starring Arnold  श्वार्ज़नेगर  , Nick Stahl , Claire Danes and Kristanna Loken  .
It is the second sequel to The Terminator ( 1984 )  .
After  स्काईनेट  fails to  मार  Sarah Connor before  उसके  son is born and to kill John himself  as  a child , it sends back another  टर्मिनेटर  , the  t-x  , in an  attempt  to wipe out as many Resistance officers  as  possible .
This includes John 's  भविष्य   बीवी   ,  but  नहीं  John himself as his whereabouts are unknown  to   स्काईनेट  .
John 's life is  लगाई  in  खतरे  when the T-X accidentally finds him .
A  cord  of wood
The cord is a  ईकाई  of measure of  शुष्क  volume  प्रयुक्त  in  कनाडा   और   the  United States to  माप  firewood and pulpwood .
A cord is the amount of  लकडी  that  ,  when `` ranked and well stowed '' (  arranged  so pieces are  लकीर   ,  parallel  ,  touching and compact ) ,  occupies  a volume of .
इस  corresponds to a well stacked woodpile  ऊँची  , long , and  गहन  ;  or  any  अन्य   व्यवस्था  of linear measurements that  yields  the same volume  .
The  नाम  cord probably comes from the use of  a  cord  or  string to measure it .
The ,  is  an 8-bit handheld  वीडियो  game device developed and manufactured by Nintendo .
It was released  in  Japan on , in North  अमेरिका  in  ,   और  in Europe on .
It is the first handheld  कंसोल  in  the   खेल   लड़के  line , and was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1  —the  same staff  जो   था  designed the Game & Watch series  as  well as several  लोकप्रिय  games for the Nintendo  entertainment   प्रणाली  .
Redesigned versions were released  in  1996 and 1998 , in  the   रूप  of Game Boy Pocket , and Game Boy Light  (  Japan only ) , respectively .
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second  हैंडहेल्ड   प्रणाली  following the Game & Watch  श्रेणी  introduced  in  ,  और  it combined  सुविधाएँ  from both the Nintendo Entertainment System and Game & Watch .
It  थी  originally bundled with the  पहेली  game Tetris  .
As part of the fourth generation of gaming  ,  the Game  लड़के  competed  साथ  the Sega Game Gear , Atari Lynx , and  the   turboexpress  .
Despite these  अन्य  technologically superior handheld  consoles  , the Game Boy was a tremendous success  .
the   खेल  Boy  और  its successor ,  the  Game Boy Color , have both combined sold 118.69 million  इकाई  worldwide .
Upon  इसके   रिलीज  in the United States , it sold  इसके  entire shipment of  एक  million units within weeks .
The World  व्यापार  Center is a complex of buildings under  निर्माण  in Lower Manhattan  ,  New York City ,  संयुक्त  States , replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings with the same  नाम  on the same site  .
The  असली  World Trade Center featured  लैंडमार्क  twin towers ,  जिससे  opened on April  4   ,  1973 and were destroyed in  the  September 11 attacks of 2001 ,  साथ  with 7 World  व्यापार  Center .
The other buildings  in   the  complex  यहूद  damaged in the attacks , and  उनके   तबाह  were eventually demolished .
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers and a memorial to those killed in the attacks .
, only one skyscraper has been completed ; the other four are expected to be completed before 2020  .
One World Trade Center will be the lead  भवन  for  the  new complex , reaching more than 100 stories at its completion .
it  became  the  tallest building  in   नई   यॉर्क  City on April 30 , 2012 , and is expected to be finished by  2013  .
A sixth tower is awaiting  पुष्टि  .
At the time of  उनके   पूर्णता  , the original 1  संसार  Trade Center (  the  North Tower ) and 2 World Trade Center ( the South Tower ) , known collectively as the ``  जुड़वा  Towers '' , were the tallest buildings in  the  world .
the  other buildings included 3  wtc  ( the Marriott  संसार   व्यापार  Center )  ,   4  WTC , 5 WTC , 6 WTC  ,  and 7 WTC .
All of these buildings were built between  1975  and  1985  .
The cost for the construction was $ 400 million (  $   in  dollars ) .
The complex was located in the heart of New York  नगर  's downtown financial district  और   contained  13.4  लाख  square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space .
The  संसार  Trade Center  अनुभवी  a fire on , 1975  ,  a bombing on , 1993 and a robbery on , 1998 .
In 1998  ,  the Port Authority decided to privatize the  संसार   व्यापार  Center , leasing  the  buildings to a  निजी  company  to  manage , and awarded  the  lease to Silverstein Properties in .
On the morning of  सितंबर  11 , 2001 , Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers  उड़ाया  two Boeing  767   jets  into the complex , one into each  मीनार   ,  in a coordinated terrorist attack  .
After burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour later  by  the North  मीनार  ( 1 ) , with the attacks on the World Trade Center resulting  in   2,753  deaths .
Falling debris from  the  towers , combined with  फ़ायर   कि  the debris initiated in several surrounding buildings , led to the partial  or  complete collapse of all  the  other buildings in the complex  और  caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the  surrounding   क्षेत्रफल  .
The process of cleanup and recovery at  the  World Trade Center site took eight months .
Over the following  सालो  , plans for a rebuilt World Trade Center took form .
The first new building at the site was 7 World Trade Center , which opened in .
The Lower Manhattan  विकास  Corporation (  lmdc  ) , established in  to   oversee  the rebuilding process ,  व्यवस्थित  competitions to  चुनें  a site plan and memorial  डिज़ाइन  .
Memory  मूलाधार  ,  designed  by Daniel Libeskind , was selected as  the   निपुण  plan , but  इस  went  through  substantial changes in  डिज़ाइन  .
The new World Trade  बीच  complex  होगा  include One World Trade Center ,  तीन  other high-rise office towers , and the National  सितंबर  11 Memorial & Museum .
San  जिबरील   kyu
San Bernardino  kyu  , with Mt . San Gorgonio in the foreground and Big Bear Lake  in  the background .
the  Transverse  सीमाएँ  are  a   समूह  of mountain  सीमाएँ  of southern California , in the Pacific Coast  सीमाएँ  physiographic region  in   उत्तर  America .
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern  समाप्त  of the California Coast Ranges and lie between Santa Barbara and San Diego counties .
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to their East-West orientation , making them transverse to the general North-South orientation  of  most of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  's coastal mountains  .
आवधिक   तालिका  with electron shells
An  इलेक्ट्रॉन  shell may be  विचार  of  as  an  कक्षा  followed by  electrons  around an  अणु   's  nucleus .
the  closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K shell '' ) , followed by the  ``  2 shell '' ( or ``  l  shell  ''  ) , then the `` 3 shell ''  (  or `` M shell ''  )   ,  and so  on   दूर  and farther from  the  nucleus .
The shell letters K , L , M , ...  ,  used in  the   x-ray  notation , are alphabetical .
Each shell  can  contain  तभी   a  fixed number of electrons : The  1st   शेल  can hold up to two electrons  ,  the 2nd shell can hold up to  आठ   electrons   ,  the 3rd  शेल  can hold  up  to 18 ,  और  4th  शेल   can   थाम  up to 32 and so on .
चूंकि   electrons  are electrically attracted to the nucleus , an atom 's electrons will generally occupy outer shells only if the more inner shells have already been completely filled by other electrons .
However , this is not a  सख्त   आवश्यकता  : Atoms may  have  two or even three incomplete  बाहरी  shells .
( See  madelung   नियम   लिये   अधिक  details  .  )
For  an  explanation of why electrons exist in these shells  देखिए  electron configuration .
The electrons in the outermost occupied  शेल   (  or  शेल  ) determine the chemical properties of the atom  ;  it is called the valence  शेल  .
प्रत्येक   शेल  consists of  एक  or more  subshells  , and each subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals .
Vickie Lynn Marshall (  née  Hogan ;  नवम्बर  28 , 1967 –  फ़रवरी  8 , 2007 )  ,   ज्ञात  by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith  ,  was an American  मॉडल  , actress ,  और  television personality .
Smith  पहला  gained popularity  in  Playboy  ,   बनने  the 1993 Playmate of the Year .
She modeled  लिये  clothing companies , including Guess  जीन्स  and Lane Bryant .
Smith dropped  आउट  of high school and  थी  married in 1985 .
उसके  highly  publicized  second marriage to  आयल  business mogul , J. Howard  मार्शल  , 62  सालो  her senior ,  resulted   in   अटकलें  that  वो  married  the  octogenarian for  उसके  money  ,   जिससे  she  अस्वीकृत  .
Following Marshall 's  मौत  , Smith began a lengthy legal battle over  a  share of his estate .
उसके  case , Marshall v. Marshall ,  पहुँचे  the  u.S.  Supreme  अदालत  on a  सवाल  of federal jurisdiction ,  और  again  on  a question of bankruptcy court  प्राधिकार   (  now called Stern v. Marshall ) .
Smith died on February 8 , 2007  in  a Hollywood , Florida hotel room  as  a result  of  an overdose of prescription drugs .
भीतर  the  फाइनल  six months of her life ,  स्मिथ  was the focus  of  a renewed press  कवरेज  surrounding the  मौत  of her son , Daniel ,  और  the paternity and custody battle over her  नवजात   बेटी  , Dannielynn .
The is one denomination of Japanese yen .
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters  ज्ञात  as  the  `` new script `` ,  और  were also  minted  from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters .
Five-yen  सिक्के  date to  1870   (  when ,  due  to the much higher value of the yen ,  वे   यहूद  minted in gold  )  .
The front of the coin  depicts  a rice plant growing  आउट  of the water , with `` five yen ''  लिखा  in kanji ; the back  is  stamped with  ``   जापानी  '' and the year  of  issue  ,  also  in  kanji ,  अलग  by sprouts  of   a   पेड़  .
The three graphic elements  of  the coin  represent  agriculture  और  fisheries , the key  तत्व  of the Japanese first-sector economy .
Around a hole , there is a  गियर  that  represents  industry .
It is  the  only Japanese coin in  परिसंचरण  to lack  अरबी  numerals on either face .
tlc  is an American  लड़की  group whose repertoire  spanned   r  & B , hip hop , soul , funk ,  और  new jack  झूले   .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz  ''  Watkins  ,   rapper  Lisa `` Left Eye ''  lopes  and singer Rozonda `` Chilli '' Thomas , the group found unprecedented success  in   the   1990s  while also enduring a series of spats  साथ  the law , each other  ,   और  the group  's  record label .
Initially  ,  TLC  हासिल  commercial  कामयाबी  following the release  of  their  डेब्यू  album  ooooooohhh  ...
On the TLC Tip , which sold 6  लाख  copies worldwide  .
However , it was their second album ,  crazysexycool  , that catapulted the group to superstar status .
CrazySexyCool went on to be  certified   डायमंड  by the RIAA — a first for  a  female  समूह   ,  and eventually sold 23 million copies worldwide .
Five  सालो  later  ,  the group released their third  एल्बम  FanMail , which became the group 's first  एल्बम   to  debut  at  number  एक  and sold more than 11 million copies worldwide .
The subsequent tour following FanMails  रिलीज  became the highest grossing tour of all  समय  by a female band .
In 2002 , Lisa  ``  Left Eye ''  lopes  died  in  a car  दुर्घटना  in Honduras .
सात  months later , T-Boz and  chilli   released  the group 's fourth album 3D ,  जिससे  sold 2 million copies worldwide  ,  it  प्रदर्शित  unreleased vocals from Left Eye .
Billboard magazine ranked TLC as one  of  the greatest musical trios .
Between 1992 and 2003  ,  the band accumulated  टेन  top  टेन   singles  , four number one singles  ,   चार  multi-platinum  एल्बम   ,  and four Grammy Awards .
At the end  of  1999 , TLC was  क्रमित  as  the  seventh most successful act of the 1990s by Billboard  .
In 2008 ,  the  group  थी   inducted  into the  सब  Time Hot 100 Artist  हॉल   of  Fame by the same magazine , at 56th place .
That year it was also  सूचीबद्ध   as   the  # 25  r  & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding  25  years .
TLC has sold more than 65 million  रिकॉर्ड  worldwide and they are ranked  as  the second best selling  मादा  group of all time , and the best selling female R & B  समूह  of all time .
In 2012 ,  tlc  ranked 12th on VH1 's  100   महानतम  Women in Music , being ranked the number one all girl  समूह   on  that list .
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure  फिल्मी   उत्पादित  by Walt Disney Feature  एनिमेशन   और  distributed  by  Walt Disney Pictures .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics , it is based on the story Tarzan of the Apes by Edgar Rice Burroughs  ,  and is the only major motion picture version of the story Tarzan property to be  एनिमेटेड  .
Directed by Chris  buck  and  केविन  Lima with a screenplay by  tab  Murphy , Bob Tzudiker , and Noni White , Tarzan  सुविधाएँ  the voices of Tony Goldwyn  ,   minnie   ड्राइवर  , Glenn Close  ,  and Rosie O'Donnell  साथ  Brian Blessed , Lance Henriksen , Wayne Knight  ,  and  निगेल   hawthorne  .
It was the last bona fide hit before the Disney  slump  of the early 2000s  grossing  $ 171,091,819  domestically  and  $  448,191,819 worldwide ,  outgrossing  its  पूर्ववर्तियों  Hercules (  1997  ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the  समय  of its release ,  इसके  production  बजट  of  $  130 million made it the most expensive animated film ever  बना  ,  जबतक  topped  by  Disney 's own  $  140 million Treasure Planet in 2002 .
It was also the  पहला  Disney animated feature  to  open at #  1  since Pocahontas .
This was the  पिछला  major box office success of the Disney Renaissance  .
Oil Platform P-51 off the  ब्राज़ीलियाई   coast  is a semi-submersible platform .
Oil platform Mittelplate in the North sea
an  oil platform , (  offshore   मंच  or colloquially oil rig ) is a  विशाल  structure with facilities  to  drill wells , to  निकालें  and process oil and natural  गैस  ,  और  to temporarily store product until  it  can be brought  to  shore for refining and marketing .
In many cases , the platform  contains  facilities to house the workforce as well .
Depending  on  the circumstances  ,  the platform may be  फिक्स्ड  to the ocean floor , may  consist   of  an  कृत्रिम  island ,  or  may float .
रिमोट  subsea wells may also be connected to  a   मंच  by flow  लाइनों  and by umbilical connections .
ये  subsea solutions may  consist  of one or more subsea  कुएं  , or of one or more manifold centres for multiple wells .
वध   is   the  killing of animals , usually  कि  of domestic livestock for food  .
the  animals most  commonly  slaughtered for food are cattle , water buffalo ( for beef and veal ) , sheep ,  बकरियों   (  for lamb and mutton ) , pigs ( for pork  )  , horses ( for  घोड़ा  meat ) , and fowl  ,  largely chickens , turkeys  ,  and  बतखों  and increasingly fish from the  aquaculture  industry (  मछली  farming ) .
The  श्वेत   हाउस  , the president 's official residence and  बीच   of  the administration
Under the United States Constitution , the  अध्यक्ष   of  the United  राज्य  is the head of state and head of government  of  the United States .
As chief  of  the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole , the  प्रेसिडेंसी  is the highest political  दफ्तर  in the United  राज्य  by  influence  and recognition .
The president  is  also the  commander-in-chief  of the United  राज्य  Armed Forces  .
The  अध्यक्ष  is indirectly elected to a  four-year  term  by   an  Electoral College (  or  by the House of Representatives  चाहिए   the  Electoral College fail to  पुरस्कार   an  absolute majority of votes to any  व्यक्ति  ) .
Since  the  ratification of the  twenty-second  Amendment  to   the  United States  संविधान  in  1951  , no person may be  निर्वाचित  President  अधिक   than  twice , and no  एक  who  रै  served more than two years of a term to which someone  else  was elected may  be   निर्वाचित  more than once  .
Upon the death ,  इस्तीफा  , or  हटाना  from office of an  लाज़िम  President ,  the  Vice President assumes the office .
The President  जरूर  be at  तनिक   35  years of age and a `` natural born '' citizen of the United States .
This  सूची  includes only those persons who were sworn  into  office as  अध्यक्ष  following the ratification  of  the United States Constitution  ,   जिससे  took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For American leaders before this ratification , see President of the Continental  कॉंग्रेस  .
The list does not include  कोई  Acting Presidents under  the  Twenty-fifth  amendment  to  the  United States Constitution  .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and  44  presidencies , as Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both  the  22nd and 24th president  .
Of  the  individuals elected as  अध्यक्ष  ,  चार  died in office of natural causes ( William Henry  हैरिसन  ,  zachary  Taylor , Warren  G.  Harding , and Franklin D.  रूज़वेल्ट  ) , four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln , James A.  गारफ़ील्ड  , William McKinley , and John F.  कैनेडी  ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George  वॉशिंगटन  ,  the   पहला   अध्यक्ष   ,  was inaugurated in 1789  बाद  a  सर्वसम्मत   vote   of   the  Electoral College .
विलियम   हेनरी   हैरिसन  spent the shortest time in office with 32 days  in  1841 , and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest  साथ  over twelve years , but  died   shortly  into his fourth term  in  1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two terms , and a  संवैधानिक  amendment , affecting presidents after Harry  ट्रूमैन  ,  थी  passed to  सीमा  the number of times an individual can be elected president .
Andrew  जैक्सन   ,   the  seventh  अध्यक्ष  , was the first to be elected by men of  सब   वर्ग  in 1828 after  सबसे  laws barring non-land-owners from  मतदान   यहूद  repealed .
वारेन  Harding  थी  the first elected after  महिलाओं  gained voting rights  in  1920 .
History  रिकॉर्ड  four presidents  –   जॉन   q  Adams , Rutherford  B.  Hayes  ,  Benjamin Harrison and  जार्ज  W. Bush –  जो  lost the popular vote  लकिन  assumed office  .
जॉन  F. Kennedy has  महरूम   the  only president of Roman  कैथोलिक  faith , and  the  current president , Barack Obama , is the  पहला  president  of  African descent .
Several firearms  साथ   detachable  suppressors , from top  to   नीचे   :  An Uzi , An AR-15 , A Heckler & Koch USP Tactical ,  a  Beretta 92FS , and  a  SIG  मच्छर  .
bolt  action rimfire  राइफल  with suppressor
AWM-F sniper rifle with attached  suppressor  .
a   suppressor  , sound suppressor , or  ध्वनि  moderator , is a device attached to or part  of  the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise ,  और  usually the amount of muzzle flash ,  उत्पन्न  by  फायरिंग  the  हथियार  .
a  suppressor can be used both with a firearm and with compressed air gun .
Though it is  sometimes  referred to as a silencer , this term is a misnomer  popularized  by cinematic  fiction  :  the  sound of a projectile  ,  especially one moving  तेज़  than the speed of  ध्वनि  , through  the  air can not be eliminated  .
Using a  suppressor  in long distance shooting ( i.e . greater than  300  meters ) can lessen , or  retard  , the report at the  पल  of impact ,  और   बनाएँ   the  impression  of  silence near the target .
The  रव  heard near the muzzle as a projectile leaves  the  barrel  ,  though subdued  ,  is not silent at all .
a  suppressor  is  usually a metal cylinder  साथ  internal  mechanisms  to  reduce   the  sound of firing by slowing the escaping  propellant  gas and sometimes by reducing the velocity  of  the bullet .
Early suppressors were created around the beginning of the 20th century by several inventors .
American inventor Hiram  पर्सी  Maxim ( not to  be   उलझन  with Hiram  स्टीवंस  Maxim ,  hiram  Percy 's father ,  और  the inventor of the Maxim Machine Gun ) , is credited with inventing and selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902  (  patented  30  March 1909 ) .
Maxim  दिया  his device  the  trademarked name  कहावत  Silencer .
The muffler for  आतंरिक  combustion engines was developed in parallel with the firearm  suppressor  by Maxim in the early 20th  सदी   ,  using many  of  the  वही  techniques to  provide  quieter-running engines ( in many  यूरोपीय  countries automobile mufflers are still called silencers  )  .
The word silencer in  सन्दर्भ   to  gun suppressor remains in widespread  उपयोग  , although it  रै  since  गिरे   आउट  of favor  साथ  some , especially among the firearms industry , being replaced with  the  more literally accurate  पद   ध्वनि   suppressor   or  just suppressor ,  क्युकी  a  ``  sound suppressor  ''  does not  ``  silence '' any  हथियार  , rather it eliminates  muzzle  flash and reduces the sonic pressure of  a  firearm discharging .
Common usage and U.S. legislative language favor the historically earlier term , silencer .
In U.S.  विधि   ,  the  शर्तें  ``  firearm  muffler '' and `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous  .
Suppressors were regularly used  by   एजेंटों  of the  संयुक्त  States Office of Strategic Services , who favored  the  newly  designed  High Standard HDM .22  long  Rifle  पिस्टल  during World  युद्ध  II .
OSS Director  विलियम   जोसेफ  `` Wild Bill '' Donovan demonstrated  the  pistol for President Franklin D.  रूज़वेल्ट  at  the  White House .
According  to  OSS  शोध  chief Stanley  लोवेल  , Donovan ( an old and trusted friend of the  अध्यक्ष  ) was waved  into   the  Oval Office , where Roosevelt was  dictating  a letter .
जबकि  Roosevelt finished  उसके   संदेश  , Donovan turned his back and fired ten shots into a sandbag he had brought with him ,  घोषित  what he had done and handed  the  smoking gun to  the  astonished  अध्यक्ष  .
the  British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod assassination pistol with an integral suppressor was also used  by   the  American OSS on clandestine  परिचालन  in Nazi  occupied  Europe during  the  Second World War  .
beatrice   ``  Bea '' Arthur ( May 13  ,   1922  – April  25  ,  2009  ) was an  अमरीकी  actress ,  comedienne  , and singer  जिनकी  career spanned seven decades .
Arthur achieved fame as the character  maude  Findlay  on   the  1970s sitcoms  सब  in the Family and Maude , and as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls , winning Emmy Awards for both roles .
a  stage actress  दोनो  before and after her television success ,  वो  won  the   टोनी  Award  लिये  Best Featured Actress in  a   musical  for her performance  as  Vera Charles in the  असली   डाल  of  mame  ( 1966  )   .
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the  tekken   वीडियो  game series  ,  produced by Digital Frontier and distributed  by  Asmik Ace Entertainment  in  association with Bandai Entertainment .
The film  premiered   in  North America  by  Bandai Entertainment on  जुलाई   26  , 2011 ,  और   in  Australia on July 27 , 2011  in  a special exclusive one-off screening .
It was released on September 3 , 2011 in Japan .
The film was released on Blu-ray  डिस्क  on November 22  ,  2011 for  यूएसए  , and December 1 , 2011 for Japan .
This film was also released on DVD on November  22  , 2011 ( 2D Version only  )  .
The film was additionally included with the PlayStation 3 game , Tekken Hybrid ,  और  the Nintendo 3DS  शीर्षक   ,  Tekken 3D :  प्रधान  Edition .
For  a  discussion of  nonprofit  , voluntary neighborhood advocacy groups ,  देखिए  neighborhood association .
in  the United States  ,  a  homeowner  association is a corporation formed by a  रियल   एस्टेट  developer  लिये  the purpose of marketing  ,  managing , and  selling  of homes and lots in  a   आवासीय  subdivision  .
It grants the  डेवलपर  privileged voting rights in governing the association , while allowing the developer to exit financial and legal responsibility of the organization , typically by transferring ownership of the association to the homeowners after  selling   बंद  a predetermined number of lots .
Membership in the homeowners association by a residential buyer is typically  a   कंडीशन  of  खरीदें  ; a  खरीदार  is n't given an option  to  reject it .
Most homeowner associations are  incorporated  , and are subject to state statutes  कि  govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State oversight of homeowner  एसोसिएशन  is minimal ,  और  mainly takes  the   रूप   of  laws which are  असंगत  from state  to  state  .
कुछ  states , such as Florida and California , have  a  large  देह  of homeowner association law  ,  and some states , such as Massachusetts , have virtually  no   homeowner   संघ  law  .
The fastest  growing  form of housing in  the  United  राज्य   आज  is common-interest  developments  ( CIDs ) , a  श्रेणी  that includes planned-unit developments of single-family homes ,  condominiums  ,  और  cooperative apartments .
Since 1964 , homeowner associations have become increasingly common in the USA .
The Community  एसोसिएशन   संस्थान  trade association  अनुमानित   कि   hoas  governed 24.8 million American homes  और   62  million residents in 2010 .
A  prize-winning  lilac-and-white Silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig which have been developed since its domestication ca  .  5000 BC  .
Breeds vary widely in appearance  और   purpose  ,  ranging  from  दिखाएँ  breeds with long , flowing hair to those  in  use as model organisms  by   विज्ञान  .
From ca . 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the  इन्का  Empire in 1532 ,  चयनात्मक   प्रजनन  by indigenous  दक्षिण  American  peoples  resulted in many varieties of domestic Guinea pigs  ,  which form the basis for some of  the   आधुनिक  domestic breeds .
Early Andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural stock for food , and efforts at  improving  the Guinea pig  as  a food  सोर्स   continue  to  the  modern era  .
With the  निर्यात  of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th century  ,  the goal in breeding shifted to focus on the development of appealing pets .
To this end , various competitive breeding organizations were founded by fanciers .
The American Cavy  प्रजनक  Association  ,  an adjunct to the American Rabbit Breeders  संघ  , is the governing body  in  the United States  और  Canada .
The  अंग्रेजों  Cavy Council governs cavy clubs  in  the United  किंगडम  .
Similar  संगठन  exist  in  Australia ( Australian  नेशनल  Cavy Council )  और  New Zealand ( New Zealand Cavy Club ) .
Each  क्लबों  publishes  इसके  own Standard of Perfection and determines which breeds are eligible for showing .
New breeds continue to emerge in  the  21st century  .
Though  वहीँ  are many breeds of  गिनी  pig , only a few breeds are commonly found on the  दिखाएँ   तालिका  as pets .
Most Guinea pigs  मिला  as pets were either found  अवांछनीय   by  breeders or were bred to be pleasant pets regardless of how well they meet the breed standard  of  perfection .
The short hair ,  abyssinian  , Peruvian and Sheltie ( aka  silkie  ) breeds are those most frequently seen as pets , and  the  former three are the core breeds in the history  of  the competitive showing  of   गिनी  pigs  .
In addition  to   उनके  standard  रूप  , nearly  सब  breeds  आइये  in a Satin variant .
Satins , due to their hollow  बाल  shafts , possess coats of a special gloss and shine .
however  ,  वहीँ  is growing  प्रमाण  that the genes responsible  लिये  the Satin coat also can cause  कठोर   अस्थि  problems , including Osteodystrophy and  पेजेट  's disease .
प्रर्दशित  Satin variations is prohibited by some cavy breeders ' associations because of animal welfare reasons .
All cavy breeds have some shared general standards  :  the head profile should  be   rounded   ,   साथ  large eyes and large  ,  smooth ears .
The  देह  should be strong and of compact  निर्माण  .
कोट  colour should in all variations be clearly defined and thorough  इससे  root to  टिप  .
ये  standards are  बेहतरीन  met by long  स्थापित  ,  commonly   करवाया  breeds , as their breeders have had enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities  .
The coat colour ideal of good definition  और  thoroughness is  rarely  met by  अन्य   than  the smooth coated breeds ,  जिससे   have  had well  स्थापित  , separate  प्रजनन   लाइनों  for different colours  .
State  स्कूलों  (  भी  known  as  public schools or government  स्कूलों   )  generally refer to primary  or  secondary schools mandated for or offered to  सब   children  without  चार्ज  paid for , in whole  or   in  part , by taxation .
The  पद  may also  refer  to institutions of post-secondary education funded  ,  in  पूरे  or in part , and  overseen  by government .
The ribosome assembles  polymeric   प्रोटीन  molecules whose  अनुक्रम  is controlled by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules .
This is required by all living cells and associated viruses  .
The ribosome (  इससे   ribonucleic  acid and the Greek soma , meaning `` body  ''  ) is a large and complex molecular machine , found within all living cells , that serves  as   the  primary site  of  biological protein synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes link amino acids together in  the  order specified by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules .
Ribosomes consist  of  two major subunits—the small ribosomal  subunit  reads the  mrna  ,  जबकि   the  large subunit joins amino acids to form  a   polypeptide  chain .
Each subunit is composed of one or more ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) molecules  और   a   किस्में   of  proteins  .
the  sequence of DNA encoding for  a  protein  may   be  copied many times  into  messenger RNA ( mRNA )  जंजीरों  of a  समान   अनुक्रम  .
Ribosomes can bind to an  mrna  chain and use it as a template for determining the correct sequence  of  amino acids in a  particular  protein .
अमीनो  acids are selected ,  एकत्रित   और  carried to the ribosome by  ट्रांसफ़र   rna  (  trna  molecules  )   ,  which  डालें   एक  part of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain  .
The attached amino  acids   हैं  then linked together by another part of  the  ribosome .
Once the  प्रोटीन  is produced , it can then 'fold  '  to produce a  विशिष्ट  functional three-dimensional structure .
A ribosome is made from complexes of  rnas  and  प्रोटीन   और  is therefore a ribonucleoprotein .
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit binds to the  mrna   पैटर्न  , while the  larger  subunit binds to the tRNA and the  अमीनो  acids .
When a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA molecule  ,  these  दो  subunits split apart .
Ribosomes are ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl  transferase   कार्यकलाप  that links amino  acids  together is performed  by   the  ribosomal RNA .
Ribosomes from bacteria , archaea  और  eukaryotes ( the three domains  of  life  on  Earth ) differ in their size , sequence , structure , and the ratio of protein  to  RNA  .
The differences in structure allow some  एंटीबायोटिक  to kill bacteria  by  inhibiting their ribosomes , while leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
in  bacteria  और   आर्किया   ,  more than  एक  ribosome may move  साथ   a  single  mrna  chain at one time , each `` reading ''  इसके  sequence  और  producing a corresponding protein molecule  .
the  ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells  functionally  resemble many features of those in bacteria , reflecting  the   संभावित  evolutionary origin of mitochondria  .
Albert Claude , Christian de Duve ,  और  George Emil Palade  यहूद  jointly awarded the  नोबेल  Prize in Physiology or Medicine , in  1974  ,  लिये  the discovery of the ribosomes .
The Nobel Prize  in  Chemistry  2009  was  awarded  to Venkatraman  रामकृष्णन  ,  थामस  A. Steitz and  एडीए  E.  yonath  for determining the  विस्तृत  structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The simplified internal structure of a chloroplast
Overview of the Calvin cycle  और  carbon fixation
The  light-independent  reactions of  photosynthesis   हैं  chemical reactions  कि   बदलें  carbon dioxide and other  यौगिकों  into glucose  .
These  प्रतिक्रियाएँ  occur in  the  stroma ,  the  fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes  .
These  प्रतिक्रियाएँ  take the light-dependent reactions and  perform  further chemical processes on them .
There  हैं  three phases to the light-independent  प्रतिक्रियाएँ  , collectively  पुकारा  the Calvin cycle : carbon  fixation   ,  reduction reactions  ,  and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration  .
Despite its  नाम  , this process  occurs   तभी  when light is available  .
पौधे   do  not carry  आउट  the Calvin  साईकिल   by  night .
They , instead , release  sucrose  into the phloem from  उनके  starch reserves .
इस   प्रक्रम  happens when  लाइट  is available independent of the kind of  photosynthesis  ( C3 carbon fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic  एसिड   in  their vacuoles every night and release  it  by  दिन  in order to make this process  कार्य  .
in  mathematics  ,   a  square  क्रमांक  or perfect square  is  an integer  कि  is the square  of  an integer ; in other words  ,  it is the product of some integer with itself .
For example  ,  9 is  a   वर्गाकार  number , since it can be written as .
the  usual notation  लिये  the  सूत्र  for the square  of   a  number is not the product , but the equivalent exponentiation , usually pronounced as `` squared '' .
The name square number comes from  the  name of the shape  ;  see below .
Square numbers are non-negative .
Another way of saying that  a   (   non-negative  )  क्रमांक  is  a   वर्गाकार   क्रमांक  , is that its square roots  हैं  again integers .
For example , =  ±3  , so  9  is  a  square number .
A positive integer that  रै  no perfect square  divisors  except  1  is called square-free .
लिये  a non-negative integer , the th square number is , with being the zeroth square .
the   अवधारणा  of square can  be  extended to some other number systems .
If rational numbers are included ,  तब   a  square is  the  ratio of  दो  square integers , and  ,   conversely  , the ratio of two  वर्गाकार  integers is a  वर्गाकार   (  e.g. ,  4/9  = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 , there are square numbers up to and including , where the expression represents the floor of the number .
The Era  of   शुभ  Feelings marked a period  in   the  political history of the United States that  reflected  a sense of national purpose  और   a  desire  लिये  unity among Americans in the  aftermath   of   the   napoleonic  Wars .
The era saw the  पतन  of the Federalist Party and an end to the bitter partisan  विवादों  between  it  and the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the First Party System .
President James Monroe  endeavored   to   downplay  partisan affiliation in  बनाना  his  nominations  ,  साथ  the  परम  goal  of   नेशनल  unity and eliminating parties altogether  इससे  national politics .
the  period is so closely associated with Monroe 's presidency ( 1817–1825 )  और  his  प्रशासनिक  goals that  उसके   नाम  and the era are virtually  synonymous  .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in  अमरीकी  politics with the end of the  federalist  Party  as   अमेरिका  began to  develop  after the War  of   1812  .
While America was  experiencing   विकास  and prosperity after the war with  ब्रिटेन  ,  इस  era  भी  marks the first instance  of  economic troubles in  the  growing United States .
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay  ,  protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the United  राज्य  complicated the  टेंशन  between the North  और  South with the coming  of  the first financial crisis .
जबकि  the term  “era  of Good Feelings” is usually viewed with irony  क्युकी  of the political  turmoil   ,  economic factors caused animosity between the North and  दक्षिण  .
The designation of  the  period by historians as one of “good  feelings”  is often conveyed with irony or  skepticism  , as  the   इतिहास  of the era was  एक   in  which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive , especially among  गिरोहों  within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party .
The phrase “Era of Good Feelings” was coined by  बेंजामिन  Russell  ,  in the  बोस्टन  Federalist newspaper ,  columbian  Centinel  ,  on July 12 , 1817 ,  following   मुनरो  's visit  to  Boston , Massachusetts  as  part of his good will tour of America .
Mariel Margaret `` Mia '' Hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 ) is  a  retired American  पेशेवर  soccer player  .
hamm  played many  सालो   as  a  आगे  for the United States women 's national soccer  टोली  and was a founding member of the Washington  स्वतंत्रता  .
Hamm scored 158 international goals , more than  कोई   अन्य   खिलाड़ी  ,  पुरूष  or  मादा   ,  in the  इतिहास  of soccer and is the third most capped  मादा  player in soccer history behind Kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone , appearing  in  275 international matches .
hamm  was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the  साल  the first two times that award was given (  in   2001  and 2002  )  , and is listed as one of FIFA  's  125 best living players ( as  चुनी  by Pelé ) .
She was inducted into the National Soccer  हॉल   of  Fame as well as the Alabama Sports  हॉल  of Fame and Texas Sports Hall of  कीर्ति   .
She is  the  author of Go For  the  Goal : A Champion  's   मार्गदर्शिका   to  Winning in Soccer  और  Life and appeared in the  एचबीओ   वृत्तचित्र  Dare to Dream : The Story of the U.S. Women 's  सॉकर  Team .
Washington Post  columnist  Michael Wilbon  पुकारा   hamm  , `` Perhaps the most important athlete  of  the last 15 years . ''
Hamm  takes  a corner kick .
The New York Red Bulls is an American professional soccer team based  in  Harrison , New  जर्सी   ,  representing the New York metropolitan area .
The  टोली  competes in the  पूर्वी  Conference of Major League Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is one of the ten charter clubs of MLS , having competed in the league  चूंकि  its inception .
The team was a founding member  of  MLS ( 1996 ) , but has  गए   through  several  नाम   परिवर्तन  .
The team  थी  originally known as the New York/New Jersey  metrostars  through 1997 .
From the 1998 season  through  the 2005 season , the team  थी  known  as  the MetroStars  .
On  कूच  9 , 2006  ,  the team was sold to Red Bull  gmbh   ,  leading to the team 's current name .
वे  are the only original MLS franchise not to have won any significant trophy ( including regular  ऋतु  , playoffs ,  और  knockout competition )  चूंकि  inception .
The team 's best result in the MLS was  the  MLS Cup final  in  2008 .
In the  us  Open Cup  ,  the  metrostars  reached three semifinals  (  1997 ,  1998  ,  2000  ) ,  पहले  reaching their first final in 2003 , losing 1–0 to the Chicago Fire .
On August 26 ,  2000  , the Metros ' Clint Mathis set  an  MLS record by  स्कोरिंग  five goals in a game against the Dallas Burn .
Some well-known players that have played for  the  team include Giovanni Savarese , Tim Howard , Tony Meola  ,  Tab Ramos  ,  Alexi  lalas  , Clint  mathis  , Jozy Altidore  ,  Michael Bradley  ,   क्लाउडियो   reyna  ,  एडी  Pope  ,  Roberto Donadoni ,  lothar  Matthäus ,  एडोल्फो  Valencia ,  youri   djorkaeff   ,   amado  Guevara , Juan Pablo Ángel , Thierry Henry , Juninho Pernambucano , Jan  गुन्नार  Solli , Rafael Márquez  ,  and  टिम   काहिल  .
the  team  रै  also had well-known  कोच   ,  including Carlos Queiroz ,  कार्लोस   अल्बर्टो  Parreira  ,  Bora Milutinović , Bob Bradley , Mo Johnston  ,  Bruce  एरिना   और  Hans Backe .
Confucianism , Taoism ,  और  Buddhism are one , a painting  in  the litang style portraying three  मेन  laughing by  a  river stream , 12th century , Song Dynasty .
Estimating the number of  बौद्धों  in the world , or in  अनेक  countries , is difficult due to  definitional   मुद्दे  as well as practical problems  of   enumeration  .
To begin with , the  धार्मिक  beliefs , practices , and  पहचान  of East Asians  (  who comprise  the  majority of the world 's Buddhists by any measure ) often blend Buddhism  साथ  other traditions including Confucianism , the Chinese  लोक  religion , Daoism , Shinto  ,   और   कोरियाई  shamanism .
Most followers of Buddhism  do  not belong to structured congregations , or observe a  definite  ritual of adherence such  as   लेने  Refuge , making it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners .
An  अतिरिक्त   चुनौती  is the hostility of several national governments ( often  कम्युनिस्ट  ones such as China or North Korea  )   to  religion generally  or   to  Buddhism specifically .
Government policies in these countries may  प्रोत्साहित  the  under-reporting  or non-reporting of religious adherence , resulting  in   आधिकारिक  totals that  may  drastically underestimate the number  of  religious practitioners  in  these countries  .
Estimate of the worldwide Buddhist population range from 350 million  to  over one billion , but cluster nearer to the first figure  .
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a figure of 397  लाख  .
By  प्रमुख  branches , the numbers are  as  follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism , including East Asian Buddhism , with no fewer  than  185 million adherents ,  और  possibly  अनेक  times that many ( again ,  depending   on   definitional  issues  )  .
This is the  predominant   रूप   of  Buddhism practiced in  चीन  , South Korea , Japan  ,  Taiwan , Singapore  ,  and Vietnam .
(  2 ) Theravada Buddhism , with  no  fewer than 125 million adherents .
This is the predominant form  of  Buddhism practiced in  कंबोडिया  , Thailand , Laos , Sri Lanka , and  बर्मा  .
(  3  ) Vajrayana Buddhism ,  साथ   लगभग  20 million adherents .
This form predominates in the greater Tibetan and Mongolian regions , as well as in the Himalayas .
Besides the independent  देशों  of Mongolia and  भूटान  , and various territories within what is now western China  ,  Vajrayana  is   परंपरागत  to certain  regions   of  Russia ( e.g . Kalmykia , Buryatia )  ,  India  (   e.g   .  Ladakh  ,  Sikkim )  ,  and  नेपाल  ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , also known  as  Tibetan  buddhism  ,  is  often conflated with Tantric Buddhism , but this is imprecise , as  shingon  and other  फ़ॉर्म  of East Asian Buddhism  भी  practice tantra .
At  तनिक  7  देशों  ( Sri  लंका  , Thailand , Cambodia ,  लाओस   ,  Burma , Bhutan , and Mongolia  )  have unambiguous Buddhist  majorities  .
Depending  on  how one calculates Chinese and  अन्य  East Asian adherents , this figure might  विस्तार  to include several  अधिक  countries .
In addition , Buddhism is the state religion of Cambodia  और  Bhutan , and  receives  prominent mention in the constitutions  of  Thailand and  श्री  Lanka  .
In northern  इण्डिया   और   नेपाल  , the land where Buddhism was  born  , the religion severely declined during the first millennium .
Whether  इस  decline was  due  to the Islamic conquest of northern India ,  or   to  other factors  ,  remains controversial  .
See the  आलेख  Decline of Buddhism in India .
James Butler  hickok   (  May 27 ,  1837   –  August 2 ,  1876  ) , better  ज्ञात  as Wild  विधेयक  Hickok , was a folk hero of the American Old West  .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along with his  प्रतिष्ठा  as  a  lawman  ,  provided the basis for his  कीर्ति  , although  कुछ   of  his reported exploits are fictionalized .
born  and  उठाया  on a  फार्म  in rural Illinois , Hickok went  वेस्ट  at  आयु   18  as a fugitive from justice , first working as a stagecoach driver , before he became  a  lawman  in  the frontier territories of Kansas and  नेब्रास्का  .
he  fought  लिये   the  Union Army  दौरान  the  अमरीकी  Civil War , and  gained  publicity after the war as a scout , marksman , actor , and professional gambler .
Between his law-enforcement duties  और  gambling  ,  which easily  overlapped  , Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts .
He was shot and killed while playing  पोकर  in the Nuttal & Mann  's  Saloon in  deadwood  , Dakota Territory ( now South Dakota ) .
कलाकार   's  conception of the Curiosity  रोवर  vaporizing rock on  मंगल  .
The rover landed on Mars in August 2012 .
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle which  propels  itself across  the  surface of  the  planet Mars  बाद  landing .
रोवर्स  have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory ,  वे  can be directed to interesting features , they can place themselves in sunny positions  to  weather winter  महीने   और  they can advance the knowledge of how  to  perform very  रिमोट  robotic vehicle control .
There have  महरूम  four successful robotically  संचालित  Mars rovers .
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory managed  the  Mars  pathfinder  mission and  इसके  now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently manages the  मंगल  Exploration Rover mission  's   क्रियाशील  Opportunity  रोवर  and inactive  स्पिरिट  , and , as part of the Mars  विज्ञान  Laboratory mission  ,   the  Curiosity rover .
A financial audit , or more accurately , an audit  of  financial statements , is  the  verification of  the  financial  कथन  of a legal entity , with a view to express an audit opinion .
The  ऑडिट  opinion is intended to provide  उचित   परख  , but  नहीं  absolute assurance , that the financial  कथन  are presented fairly , in all material respects , and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with  the  financial reporting framework .
The  purpose  of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of  the  financial statements , which increases  the  value and credibility of the financial statements produced by management , thus  बढ़ाएँ  user confidence  in  the financial statement , reduce investor risk and consequently reduce  the  cost of  पूंजी  of the preparer of  the  financial statements .
Financial audits are typically performed  by  firms of  practicing  accountants who are experts in financial  रिपोर्टिंग   .
The  वित्तीय  audit is one of many  परख  functions provided by  हिसाब  firms .
अनेक  organizations separately employ or  hire  internal auditors , who do not attest to financial reports but  फ़ोकस  mainly on the internal controls of the organization .
External auditors may choose to  प्लेस  limited reliance on the work of internal auditors .
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial  disclosures  made by an  संगठन  , therefore would  संभावित  to  reduce  of such corporations to  छिपाते   unscrupulous  dealings .
internationally   ,  the International Standards on Auditing ( ISA )  जारी  by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board  (  IAASB ) is considered  as  the benchmark for audit  प्रक्रम  .
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors to follow the ISA or a local  विभिन्नता  of the ISA .
डालर  coins have been  minted  in the United States in gold  ,  silver , and base metal versions  .
The term silver dollar is often used  लिये  any large  श्वेत  metal coin issued by the United States  साथ  a face value of one  डालर  , although  purists  insist that a  डालर  is  नहीं  silver unless it  contains  some of that metal .
चांदी   डॉलर  , the first dollar coin  समस्या  , were minted beginning in 1794 .
Gold dollars and gold-colored dollars have also  महरूम  produced by the United States  .
The Sacagawea  और   अध्यक्षीय  dollars are often referred  to  as  ``  golden dollars ''  .
In modern times , dollar  सिक्के  have not been very popular in  the  United States .
Despite efforts by  the  government  to  promote their use  ,  most Americans currently use the  एक   डालर  bill  बल्कि  than dollar coins .
in  straight and  स्तर  flight lift ( L )  बराबरी  weight ( W )  .
in  a banked turn of 60°  ,  lift equals double the weight  (  L=2W  )   .
The pilot experiences 2g and a doubled  वज़न  .
The  steeper  the bank ,  the  greater the g-forces .
This top-fuel  dragster  can accelerate from zero to in 0.86 seconds .
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. Combined  साथ   the  vertical g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of  5.4  g  .
g-force  ( with g from gravitational ) is a term for accelerations  लगा  as weight and measurable by accelerometers .
It is not a force , per se , but a force per unit mass .
Since such a  फ़ोर्स   is   आभास  as a weight , any g-force can be  वर्णित   as  a ``  वज़न  per unit mass '' ( see the synonym  विशिष्ट   वज़न  ) .
The g-force  त्वरण   अधिनियमों   as  a multiplier of weight-like  शक्तियां  for every unit  of  an  ऑब्जेक्ट  's  द्रव्यमान   ,  and  (  save for certain electromagnetic force influences ) is the  कारण  of an  ऑब्जेक्ट  's acceleration  in   संबंध  to free-fall  .
This acceleration experienced  by   an  object is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move .
The accelerations that are not  उत्पादित  by  गम्भीरता   हैं   termed  proper accelerations , and it is only these  कि   हैं  measured in g-force units  .
They cause stresses  और  strains on objects .
Because of  ये  strains , large g-forces may  be  destructive .
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force  ,  even though  g-forces  are expressed in  multiples   of  the acceleration of a standard gravity .
Thus , the standard gravitational acceleration at  the  Earth 's surface produces g-force only indirectly  ,   as  a result of  प्रतिरोध   to  it by mechanical forces .
The 1 g-force on an object sitting  on  the Earth 's surface is caused by mechanical force  exerted  in the upward direction by the  मैदान  , keeping the object from going into  free-fall   .
The upward force from the ground ensures  कि   an  object at  बाकी  on  the  Earth  's  surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition  ,  which is the path that  the  object would follow when falling freely toward  the  Earth  's  center  .
वस्तुएँ  allowed  to  free-fall in an inertial  trajectory  under the influence  of  gravitation-only ,  महसूस  no g-force .
This is demonstrated  by   the  ``  zero-g  ''  शर्तें  inside a  freely  falling elevator falling toward the Earth 's center ( in  वैक्यूम  ) , or ( to  शुभ  approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
These are examples of coordinate acceleration ( a change in velocity  )  without a sensation of weight .
the   अनुभव   of  no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is produced  ,  is  synonymous  with weightlessness .
In the  अनुपस्थिति  of gravitational fields , or in  दिशानिर्देश  at right  कोण  to  उन्हें  ,  उचित  and coordinate accelerations are the same , and any coordinate acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration  .
An example  यहाँ  is a rocket in  फ़्री  space , in which  सरल  changes in  गति  are produced by the  इंजन  , and produce  g-forces   on   the  rocket and  यात्री  .
An augur  पकड़कर   a  lituus , the curved  wand  often used as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
The augur was a priest and official  in  the classical world  ,  especially ancient  रोम  and  etruria  .
His main role was  to   interpret  the  होगा  of the  देवताओं   by  studying the flight of birds :  whether  they are flying in groups  or  alone , what noises they  मेक  as they fly , direction of flight and what  दयालु   of   पक्षियों   वे  are  .
This was known  as  `` taking  the  auspices  .   ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was  सेंट्रल  to any  प्रमुख  undertaking in Roman society—public or  private—including   matters  of war ,  कॉमर्स  , and religion .
The  रोमन  historian Livy  तनावों  the importance of the augurs : ``  जो  does not  जान  that this  नगर  was founded  तभी   बाद  taking the auspices , that  सबकुछ  in war and in  सलाम  , at home and abroad , was done  तभी  after  लेने  the auspices ? ''
farmington   पहाड़ियाँ  is an  affluent  community in southeastern Michigan  .
It is the second largest city  in  Oakland County in the U.S. state of Michigan  .
Its population was 79,740 at the 2010 census .
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan Detroit  और   is  also northeast  of  downtown Ann Arbor .
farmington  Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest cities in  the  United States  ,  as  खूब  as in the state of Michigan .
In 2010 , the area ranked  as  the 30th safest city in America .
Although the two cities have separate services and addresses , Farmington and Farmington Hills are often thought  of  as  the  same  जातियाँ  .
सुविधाएँ  of  the  community include a recently renovated downtown , boutiques , a vintage cinema , numerous restaurants , exotic car dealerships , art galleries , and public parks including Heritage Park  .
There are several historical sites including the Longacre House and the  राज्यपाल  Warner Mansion  .
Both cities are served  by  Farmington Public Schools  .
Farmington Hills  serves  as a  प्रमुख  business center for the greater Detroit area .
Present-day impression of  a   लेट  Bronze Age seal
Town  मुहर  (  मेट्रिक्स   )  of Náchod from  1570
a  seal is a device for making  an  impression in wax , clay , paper , or  कुछ  other  मीडियम   ,  including  an  embossment on  पेपर   ,   और  is also the impression thus made .
The original  purpose  was to authenticate a document , a wrapper for  एक   ऐसे   as  a modern envelope ,  or  the cover of  a  container or package holding  valuables  or other objects .
The sealing process is essentially  कि  of a mould  ,  with the final image represented on  the  device for making the impression by a mirror-image design ,  incised  in sunken-  (  or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The  seal-making  device is also referred to  as  the seal  मेट्रिक्स   or  die  ;  the imprint  it   creates  as the seal impression (  or  , more rarely , the sealing  )   .
If the impression  is  made purely as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the paper where  the  high parts of the matrix touch , the seal is known as  a  dry seal ; in all  अन्य   मामले  a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used , usually  in  another  रंग  than the paper  .
For legal purposes ,  the  definition  of  a  मुहर   may  be extended to include rubber stamps , or writing  निर्दिष्ट  words ( `` seal ''  or  `` L.S  .  `` ) .
In  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  , the word ``  मुहर  ''  is  sometimes assigned to a  facsimile  of the seal design ( in monochrome  or   रंग  ) , which may be used  in  a  किस्में  of contexts including architectural settings , on flags , or on official letterheads .
Thus , for example  ,  the Great Seal of the United States , among other uses  ,  appears  on  the reverse of the one-dollar bill ;  और  several of the seals of  the  U.S. states  appear   on  their respective  राज्य  flags .
In Europe , although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature  in  such  contexts  as well as on seals , the  मुहर  design in  इसके   entirety  rarely appears as  an  emblem  .
The study  of  seals is known as sigillography or  sphragistics  .
Groundhog Day  (  Pennsylvania German : Grundsaudaag , Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated  on  February 2  .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day , then spring will  आइये   जल्दी  ; if it is sunny , the groundhog will supposedly see its  छाया  and retreat back into its  burrow  , and the winter weather  होगा  continue for six more weeks .
Modern customs of  the   अवकाश  involve celebrations where early morning festivals are held to watch  the  groundhog emerging  इससे   इसके  burrow .
In southeastern Pennsylvania  ,  Groundhog Lodges  (  Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with  fersommlinge   ,  social  कार्यक्रम  in which food is served  ,   भाषणों  are  बना  ,  और  one or  अधिक  g'spiel ( plays or skits )  हैं  performed for entertainment .
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the  तभी  language spoken at  the  event  ,  and those who speak English pay  a  penalty , usually in the form  of  a nickel , dime  ,  or  क्वार्टर  per word spoken , with  the  money  put  into a  कटोरी  in the  बीच  of the table .
The largest Groundhog Day celebration is held in Punxsutawney ,  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized and popular tradition , received widespread attention  as  a result of  the  1993  फिल्मी  Groundhog Day ,  जिससे  was set  in   punxsutawney   ,  PA ( though filmed primarily in Woodstock , IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
High resolution  चित्र   of  Tampa Bay  प्रदेश
The  tampa  Bay area  रै  a humid subtropical climate ( Koppen  cfa  ) , with  गरम  and humid  ग्रीष्म   साथ  frequent thunderstorms and drier winters with freezing temperatures  occurring  every 2–3 years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation falls in the months of June through September  .
The area is listed by the United States Department  of  Agriculture ( USDA ) as being  in  hardiness  मण्डल  10  ,  which  is  about the northern limit of where coconut  हथेलियां  and royal palms  can   be  grown .
Highs usually range between  65   और   95  °F  (  18 and 35 °C ) year round .
Though  ज्ञात   लिये   hot   ग्रीष्म  ,  tampa  's official high has never reached 100 °F  (  38  °c   )  – the city 's all-time record temperature  is  99  °f   (  37 °C ) .
St.  पीटर्सबर्ग  's all-time record high is exactly 100 °F ( 38 °C ) .
Pinellas County  झूठ  on a peninsula between Tampa  खाड़ी  and  the   गल्फ  of Mexico , and much of the city of Tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting  आउट  into Tampa Bay .
This proximity to large  लाशें  of  जल  both moderates temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere .
In general , the local communities  farthest  from the coast  have  larger temperature ranges  ,  both during a single  दिन  and  throughout  the seasons of the year .
A  आरेख  of  the  electromagnetic spectrum ,  प्रर्दशित  various properties  आरपार  the  दायरा  of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies  of  electromagnetic radiation .
the  `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an  ऑब्जेक्ट  has a different meaning , and is instead  the  characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted  or  absorbed by that particular object .
The electromagnetic spectrum  extends  from below the low frequencies used for modern  रेडियो   संचार  to gamma radiation  at   the  short-  wavelength  ( high-frequency )  समाप्त  , thereby  covering  wavelengths  इससे  thousands  of  kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long  wavelengths  is the size of the  ब्रह्मांड   itself   ,   जबकि  it is thought that the short  wavelength  limit  is  in the vicinity of the Planck length , although  in  principle the spectrum is  अनन्त  and continuous .
सबसे  parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and  अन्य   probing  interactions , as ways to study and characterize matter .
In  जोड  , radiation  इससे  various  भाग  of the  वर्णक्रम  has  मिला  many other uses  लिये  communications and manufacturing (  देखिए  electromagnetic radiation for more  अनुप्रयोग  ) .
Legend
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 – April 12 ,  1945  ) , also  ज्ञात   by  his  आद्याक्षर  ,  fdr  , was the  32nd  President of the United  राज्य  (  1933–1945   )  and a central figure in  संसार  events during the mid-20th century ,  अग्रणी   the  United States  दौरान  a time of  विश्वव्यापी  economic depression and total war  .
a  dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the  तभी  American president elected to more than two terms , he built a New  सौदे  Coalition  कि  realigned American politics after 1932 , as  उसके   घरेलू  policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy  लोकप्रिय  song `` Happy  दिनों   हैं  Here Again `` as his  अभियान  theme  ,  FDR defeated incumbent  रिपब्लिकन  Herbert Hoover in November 1932 , at the  गहराई  of the Great Depression .
सक्रिय   by  his personal  विजय   over   पोलियो   ,  FDR 's unfailing  आशावाद  and activism contributed to a renewal  of   the  national spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston  चर्चिल  and Soviet General Secretary Joseph  स्टालिन   in  leading the Allies against Germany and  जापानी  in World War II , and  restoring   समृद्धि  to the nation  's  economy .
in  his first hundred days in office ,  जिससे  began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded  प्रमुख   विधान  and issued a profusion of executive orders  कि  instituted  the   नई  Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce relief  (  government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth  )  , and reform  (  through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937 , but  तब  relapsed  into  a  गहन  recession  .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937  prevented  his  पैकिंग   the   परम्  Court or  गुजर  any considerable legislation ; it abolished many  of  the relief programs when unemployment diminished  दौरान  World  युद्ध  II .
Most of the regulations on  कारोबार  were ended about 1975–85 , except  लिये  the regulation of Wall Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission , which still exists .
Along with  अनेक  smaller programs ,  प्रमुख   surviving   कार्यक्रम   शामिल  the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , which was created  in  1933 , and  सोशल  Security ,  जिससे  Congress  passed  in 1935 .
as  World War II loomed after 1938 , with  the  Japanese  आक्रमण  of China and the aggression  of  Nazi Germany , FDR gave strong diplomatic and financial  support  to China and Great  ब्रिटेन  , while remaining officially neutral .
His  लक्ष्य  was to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which would  सप्लाई  munitions to  the   allies  .
In March  1941  , Roosevelt , with Congressional approval , provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi  जर्मनी  with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after  the  Japanese attack on Pearl  हार्बर  on December 7  ,  1941  ,  calling it a `` date which will live in infamy  ``  .
He  पर्यवेक्षित   the  mobilization  of  the U.S. economy  to  support the Allied war effort  .
As an active military  नेता  , Roosevelt  implemented  an overall war strategy on two fronts that ended in the defeat of the Axis  शक्तियां  and  the   विकास  of the world 's first atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt  ordered  the internment of 100,000 Japanese  अमरीकी   नागरिकों  .
Unemployment  dropped  to 2  %   ,  relief programs largely ended , and the  औद्योगिक  economy grew  rapidly   to  new heights as  लाखो  of people moved  to  new  कार्य   in  war centers ,  और  16  लाख  men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered  लिये  military service .
Roosevelt  वर्चस्व   the   अमरीकी   राजनैतिक  scene not  तभी  during  the   बारह  years of his presidency , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions ,  बिग  city machines ,  श्वेत  ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He  भी  influenced the later creation  of  the  संयुक्त  Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt  is  consistently rated by scholars as  एक  of the top  तीन  U.S. Presidents ,  साथ  with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
A liberal Democrat  ,  Roosevelt defined his ideological position as `` a  छोटी  left of center  .  ''
a  Joint Committee is a term  in  politics  कि  is used to refer to a committee made up of members of both chambers of a bicameral legislature  .
In  अन्य   contexts  , it refers to a committee with  सदस्यों  from more than  एक  organization  .
The regulation of  वेश्यावृति  in  the   संयुक्त  States is  नहीं  among the enumerated powers of  the  federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution  ,  it is therefore exclusively  the  domain of the states to permit , prohibit , or otherwise regulate  वाणिज्यिक  sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the  मन  Act .
In most states , prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the  श्रेणी   of  public  अनुक्रम  crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a  जातियाँ  .
it   थी  at one time considered to be a vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the  तभी  state to allow brothel prostitution , the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
तभी  8  काउंटी  currently contain active brothels .
All forms  of  prostitution  हैं  illegal in Clark County (  जिससे  contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area  )   ,  Washoe County ( which contains Reno ) , Carson City  ,   डगलस  County , and Lincoln County .
The other counties theoretically  allow  brothel prostitution ,  लकिन  some of these  काउंटी  currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution ,  ``  pandering , '' and  जीना  off of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal under Nevada  विधि  , as elsewhere in the country .
As  साथ  other countries ,  वेश्यावृति  in  the  United States can be  विभाजित  into three broad  श्रेणी  : street prostitution ,  वेश्यालय   वेश्यावृति  , and escort prostitution .
The national flag of the United States of  अमेरिका  ,  प्रायः   बस  referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal  आड़ा  stripes of red  (  top  और   नीचे  ) alternating  साथ   श्वेत  , with  a  blue rectangle  in  the  कैण्टन   (  referred to specifically as the `` union ''  )  bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows  of   छह  stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows  of  five stars  .
The 50  सितारों  on the flag represent the 50 states  of   the  United States of America and the  13  stripes  represent  the thirteen  अंग्रेजों  colonies that declared independence from the Kingdom  of  Great Britain  और  became the first states  in  the Union  .
nicknames   लिये  the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes ''  ,  `` Old Glory ``  ,  and  ``   the  Star-Spangled  ध्वज  . ''
India is a federal union of states comprising twenty-eight states and seven union territories .
the  states and  territories  are further subdivided into  जिले   और  so on .
Congressional districts for the 113th United  राज्य  Congress
2010  जनसांख्यिकी  change:
Change  in  apportionment of congressional districts ,  starting  in 2013 , as a result of the 2010 census  .
2000 Census change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts , from 2003 to 2013 , as a  परिणाम  of the 2000 census .
This is a complete list of congressional  जिले   लिये  representation  in  the United States  हाउस  of Representatives .
the  quantity (  apportionment  ) and boundaries ( redistricting ) of districts are determined after each census , although in some cases states  have  changed  the  boundaries more than once  प्रति  census .
इस  list includes the 435  वर्तमान   और  over 200 obsolete districts .
For example , since the 2000  जनसांख्यिकी   ,  Nebraska has  था  three districts  ,  but  it   प्रयुक्त  to have as many  as  six .
In the first decade of the twenty-first century , Texas had 32 districts , but  रै  since added four due to reapportionment as  a  result of the 2010 census .
Other states have lost districts since the number of congressional  सीटे   रै   महरूम  set  at  435 by  statute  .
Also included here are non-voting delegations  :  six current and  चार  obsolete  .
the  boundaries of districts  प्रायः   शिफ़्ट  with each  redistricting  .
Over time  ,  the region and demographics  represented  in a district can change substantially  .
furthermore  ,  जिले  sometimes retain the same  सीमाएँ  while  बदलना  their district numbers .
mariah  Carey ( born  कूच  27 , 1970 ) is  an   अमरीकी   सिंगर  ,  songwriter   ,  record  निर्माता  , actress ,  और   लोकसेवक  .
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive  टॉमी  Mottola , Carey released her self-titled debut  स्टुडियो  album Mariah Carey in  1990   ;  it went multi-platinum and  शाखित  four consecutive number one singles on the  u.s   .  Billboard  hot   100  chart  .
Following her marriage  to  Mottola in  1993  and success with hit records Emotions ( 1991 ) ,  म्यूज़िक  Box  (  1993  )  , and Merry Christmas  (   1994  ) ,  कैरी  was established as Columbia 's  highest-selling  act .
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music  इतिहास  when  इसके  second single `` One Sweet Day `` , a duet with  बॉयज  II Men , spent a record sixteen weeks on top of  the  Billboard Hot  100  , and remains  the  longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history .
During the recording  of  the album , Carey began to deviate  इससे  her  r  &  b  and pop beginnings and  धीरे  traversed into hip hop  .
इस  musical  बदलें  became evident with the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ) , at which time Carey had separated  इससे  Mottola  .
Carey left Columbia in  2000   ,  and signed  a  record-breaking $ 100 million recording  अनुबंध  with Virgin Records .
पहले  the release  of  her first feature  फिल्मी   glitter  ( 2001  )  , she  suffered   a   शारीरिक  and emotional breakdown and  थी  hospitalized for  कठोर   थकावट  .
Following the film 's poor reception , she was bought out  of   उसके  recording  अनुबंध  for $  50  million , which led to  a  decline  in  her career .
She  हस्ताक्षरित   a   multi-million  dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002 ,  और  after an unsuccessful period , returned  to  the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi  (   2005  )  .
Its second single `` We Belong Together `` became  उसके  most successful single of the 2000s  ,   और   थी   बाद  named  ``  Song of the Decade '' by Billboard .
Carey once again  ventured  into film with  a   well-received  starring role in ( 2009 ) ; she was  awarded  the  ``  Breakthrough Performance  पुरस्कार   ''   at   the  Palm Springs International Film Festival , and  ब्लैक  Reel  और   naacp  Image  पुरस्कार  nominations .
In a career spanning over two decades  ,  Carey has  बेची  more than  200  million records worldwide , making  उसके  one of the  best-selling  music artists of all time .
In  1998  ,  वो  was honored as the world  's  best-selling recording  कलाकार  of  the  1990s at the  संसार  Music  पुरस्कार  .
Carey  थी  also named the best-selling female artist  of  the millennium in 2000 .
According  to   the   रिकॉर्डिंग  Industry Association of America , she is the  तीसरा  best-selling female artist in  the  United  राज्य  , with  63.5  million  certified  albums  .
साथ  the release  of  `` Touch My  देह   ``  ( 2008 ) , Carey gained her eighteenth number one  सिंगल   in  the United States ,  अधिक  than any other solo artist .
In 2012  ,  Carey  थी  ranked second  on  VH1 's list  of  the ``  100  Greatest Women  in  Music '' .
Aside from her commercial  accomplishments  , Carey has won five  ग्रैमी  Awards , 17 World Music Awards , 11 American  म्यूज़िक  Awards ,  और  31 Billboard  म्यूज़िक  Awards  .
Referred  to  as the `` songbird supreme ''  by  the  गिनीज  World Records , she is famed for her five-octave vocal range , power , melismatic style and signature use of  the  whistle register  .
Stratocumulus  stratiformis   cumulogenitus
In meteorology , a cloud is a visible mass of liquid droplets  or  frozen  crystals   बना   of  water  or  various chemicals suspended in the atmosphere above the surface  of  a planetary body .
ये  suspended  अणु  are also  ज्ञात  as aerosols  .
Clouds in Earth 's atmosphere  हैं   पढ़ाई  in  the  cloud  भौतिकी  branch  of  meteorology .
Two processes  ,  possibly acting together , can lead  to   एयर  becoming saturated ;  कूलिंग  the  एयर  or adding water vapor  to  the  एयर  .
In general ,  वर्षण  will fall to  the   सतह  ; an exception is virga , which evaporates before reaching the surface .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   बादल  classification  प्रणाली  is based on the fact clouds in their most basic forms can  दिखाएँ   free-convective  upward growth like  कपासी  , appear in non-convective layered sheets such as stratus ,  or  take  the  form of thin fibrous wisps ,  as   in  the case of cirrus  .
Prefixes are used in connection with clouds to express variations or complexities in  ये  basic forms or to specify middle or  ऊँची  altitude ranges .
These include  strato-  for low  बादल   साथ  limited  संवहन  that form  ज़्यादातर  in uneven layers ,  cumulo-   लिये   जटिल  highly-convective storm  बादल  , nimbo- for thick layered clouds of some complexity that can produce moderate to heavy precipitation  ,  alto- for  मध्य  clouds , and  cirro-  for high clouds ; the latter two of which may be of simple or moderately  जटिल  structure .
whether  or not  a  cloud is  कम  , middle ,  or  high level depends on how far above  the  ground its base forms .
Cloud  प्रकार  with significant vertical extent can form in the low or middle altitude  सीमाएँ   depending  on the moisture content of the air .
Clouds  in  the troposphere have Latin names  due  to the popular adaptation of Luke Howard 's cloud categorization system , which  began  to spread in popularity  दौरान   दिसम्बर  1802 .
Synoptic surface weather observations use code numbers to  रिकार्ड  and report  the   प्रकार  of tropospheric cloud visible at each scheduled observation time based  on  the height and physical appearance of the  बादल  .
While a majority  of  clouds  रूप   in  Earth 's troposphere  ,   वहीँ  are occasions when clouds  in  the  stratosphere  and mesosphere  can  be observed .
These three main layers of  the  atmosphere where clouds  may  be  देखी  are collectively known as the homosphere .
Above this lies the thermosphere and exosphere , which together  मेक  up  the  heterosphere that marks the transition to  बाहरी   स्पेस   .
Clouds have been observed on other planets  और  moons within the Solar System , but , due to their different  तापमान  characteristics , they are composed of other substances such as methane , ammonia ,  और  sulfuric acid  .
Galveston County is a county located in  the  U.S. state of  टेक्सास  within  the  Houston–Sugar Land–Baytown metropolitan area .
As of the 2010 census , the  जनसांख्यिकी   थी  291,309 .
Its county seat is Galveston .
लीग  City is the  largest  city in Galveston County in  शर्तें   of  population ; URL_http between 2000 and  2005  it  surpassed  Galveston as the county 's  largest  city .
Galveston County  थी  founded in 1838 .
Nassau
Freeport ,  बहामा
This is  a  list  of  cities in the Bahamas .
The following  तालिका  lists the city or town name , the  भौगोलिक  coordinates ,  the  population as of the 1990  जनसांख्यिकी  , an estimate of the population as of 2009 , and the island name .
The Big Ten Conference , formerly Western Conference and Big Nine Conference , is  the  oldest Division  i  college athletic conference  in  the United States .
Its twelve member institutions ( which are primarily flagship research universities  in  their respective states ,  well-regarded  academically , and  साथ  relatively large student enrollment ) are  स्तिथ   primarily  in the Midwest  ,  stretching from Nebraska in the west to Penn State in the  ईस्ट  .
the  conference competes in the NCAA 's  प्रभाग  I ; its  फ़ुटबॉल  teams  compete  in  the  Football Bowl Subdivision (  fbs  ) , formerly known as Division  i-a  ,  the  highest level of NCAA competition in  कि  sport  .
Member schools of the Big  टेन  ( or , in two  मामले  , their  जनक  university systems  )  also are  सदस्यों  of the Committee on Institutional Cooperation ,  a  leading educational and research consortium .
Despite  the  conference 's name , the Big  टेन   दरअसल  consists  of  12 schools , following the  जोड  of The  पेन्सिलवेनिया  State University in 1993 and  the  University of  nebraska–lincoln  in  2011  .
In 2014  ,  the conference will expand to 14 members with the additions of the University  of  Maryland , College Park and Rutgers , The State  विश्वविद्यालयों  of New Jersey .
it  is not to be confused  साथ   the  Big  12  Conference , which has only ten schools and represents a different region of the country .
सिंगल   malt  Scotch is single malt whisky made in Scotland using a pot still distillation process at a single distillery , with malted barley  as  the only grain ingredient .
As with any Scotch  व्हिस्की  , a single malt Scotch must be distilled in Scotland and matured in oak casks in  स्कॉटलैंड  for at least  तीन  years ( most single malts are matured longer ) .
`` Malt '' indicates that the whisky is distilled  इससे  a `` malted ''  अनाज  .
Several  प्रकार  of grains can be  malted  ( for example  ,  barley , rye and wheat are all grains which can be malted )  ;   however   ,  in the case  of   सिंगल  malt Scotch , barley is always the only grain used  .
``  सिंगल  '' indicates that all the malts in the bottle  आइये   इससे  a  सिंगल  distillery .
Bottlings containing  malt  whisky from  अनेक  distilleries are called `` blended  malt   ``  .
Until the  स्कॉच  Whisky Regulations 2009 (  swr  2009 ) ,  the  word  ``   blended  '' only appeared ( in the context of Scotch whisky )  on  bottles of whisky that contained a mixture of  दोनो  barley  और  non-barley grain whisky , but this is no longer the  मामला  .
अंतर्गत  the terminology established by the SWR 2009 , a ``  blended  malt Scotch  व्हिस्की   ''  is a mixture of  सिंगल  malt Scotch whiskies  ,  not  a   मिश्रण   of   malted   जौ  whisky and non-barley  व्हिस्की  ; those are called ``  blended  Scotch whisky  ''  , without the word `` malt '' .
The term `` blended malt  ''  replaced `` vatted malt  ''   प्रयुक्त  under the prior labelling conventions .
The age statement on a  बोतल  of single malt Scotch is the number of years the whisky spent  maturing   in  cask .
As very few whiskies are bottled  इससे  a single cask  the  age statement reflects the  आयु   of  the  youngest  malt  in  the mix  .
A texture may be  arranged  so as  to  , `` closely approach the single-object  औकात  of fused-ensemble timbres  ,  for example , the  खूबसूरत  'northern lights ' chord ... , in a  बहुत  interesting  वितरण  of  pitches  , produces a fused sound  समर्थित  by  a  suspended  झांझ  roll  ``  ( Erickson ( 1975 ) , p.166 & 168  )  .
In  कंट्रास्ट  to more  परंपरागत  musical textures ,  ध्वनि  mass composition `` minimizes the importance  of  individual pitches  in  preference for  बनावट  , timbre  ,  and dynamics as primary shapers of gesture and impact . ''
Developed from  the  modernist tone clusters and spread to orchestral writing by  the  late 1950s and 1960s , sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between  ध्वनि  and noise `` (  एडवर्ड्स  2001  ,  pp . 326–27 ) .
Techniques which may  बनाएँ  or  be   प्रयुक्त  with sound mass include extended techniques such  as  muted brass or  स्ट्रिंग्स  , flutter tonguing , wide  vibrato  , extreme ranges  ,  and glissandos  .
Composers and works include Barbara  kolb   ,  Pauline Oliveros ' Sound  पैटर्न  for  कोरस  ( 1961 ) , Norma Beecroft 's From Dreams  of  Brass for chorus  (  1963–1964 ) , and  नैंसी  Van de Vate .
beecroft  `` blurs  व्यक्तिगत  pitches in favor of a collective timbre through the use of vocal and instrumental clusters , choral  वाक  , narrator , and a wash of  ध्वनि  from an electronic tape .  ''
(  ibid  )
A very early example is the opening of Jean-Féry Rebel 's ballet Les Elémens ( 1737–38 ) , where chaos  is  represented  by  a gradually cumulating orchestral cluster of all seven  टीप  of the D minor scale ( Henck 2004 , pp . 52–54 ) .
A later example is  the   तीसरा  movement of Ruth Crawford Seeger 's  स्ट्रिंग  Quartet 1931 ( Nonesuch H-71280  )  while more recently Phill  niblock  's multiple  ड्रोन  based music serves as  an  example  .
The use of `` chords approaching timbres  ''  begins  साथ  Debussy and Edgard Varèse often carefully  scored  individual instrumental parts  so  that they  होता  fuse into one ensemble  timbre   or  sound  द्रव्यमान   (  Erickson 1975  ,  pp . 18 and 21 ) .
अन्य  examples include European `` textural  ''  compositions of  the  fifties  और  sixties such as Krzysztof Penderecki 's Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima ( 1959 )  और  György Ligeti  's  works  featuring  micropolyphony in works like Atmosphères  (  1961 ) and  उसके  Requiem ( 1963-65 ) .
Other  composers  with works  using  this  तकनीक  include Henryk Górecki , Karel Husa , Witold Lutosławski , Kazimierz Serocki , and Steven Stucky .
Sound mass  तकनीकों  also appear in  the   म्यूज़िक  of George Crumb (  anon  . n.d. ) .
विद्यार्थी  attending a lecture on linear algebra at the Helsinki University of Technology
विद्यार्थियों   in  rural  सूडान  , 2002
a  student is a learner ,  or   किसी  who attends an educational  संस्था  .
In some nations , the English term ( or its cognate in another language  )  is reserved for those who  attend  university , while a schoolchild under the age of  अठारह  is called  a  pupil in English ( or an equivalent  in  other  भाषाएं  ) , although in  the   संयुक्त  States a person enrolled  in   ग्रेड   k–12  is often called a  छात्र  .
In its  widest  use ,  छात्र  is used for anyone who is learning .
Australia  is  a  महाद्वीप   comprising  mainland Australia , Tasmania ,  नई  Guinea  ,  Seram  ,   संभवतः  Timor , and neighbouring islands .
The continent is  sometimes  known in technical contexts by the  names  Sahul , Australinea or Meganesia , to  फर्क  it from the Australian mainland .
It is the smallest of the seven  परंपरागत  continents in the English conception .
New Zealand  is  not  भाग  of the continent  of  Australia , but of the separate  ,   submerged   महाद्वीप  of Zealandia .
Zealandia and  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  are  दोनो  part  of  the wider regions known  as  Australasia and Oceania .
The continent of Australia lies on a continental shelf overlain by shallow  समंदर  which divide it into several landmasses —  the  Arafura  समुद्र  and Torres Strait between mainland Australia and New  गिनी  , and Bass  जलसन्धि  between  मेनलैंड   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  and  तस्मानिया  .
When sea  स्तर   यहूद  lower during  the  Pleistocene ice age , including the last glacial maximum about 18,000 BC , they  यहूद  connected by dry  जमीन   .
During the past ten  हजार  years , rising sea  स्तर  overflowed the  lowlands   और  separated the continent  into  today  's  low-lying arid  to   semi-arid  mainland and the two mountainous islands of New Guinea and Tasmania .
geologically   ,  a continent extends to the edge of its continental shelf , so the now-separate islands are  माना  part of  the  continent .
due  to the  स्प्रेड   of   पशु  , fungi  और  plants  आरपार  the single Pleistocene landmass the separate lands have a related biota .
Central Park is  nearly  twice as big as the world 's second-smallest country , Monaco .
Historically its reservoirs  यहूद   महत्वपूर्ण  components of the city 's water supply .
Environmental issues  in  New York City are affected by the  नगर  's size  ,  density , abundant  पब्लिक  transportation infrastructure , and location at the mouth of the Hudson River .
New  यॉर्क  's  जनसांख्यिकी  density has environmental pros and  ठग  .
It facilitates the highest mass transit  उपयोग  in the  संयुक्त  States , but  भी  concentrates  प्रदूषण  .
Gasoline consumption in the  नगर  is at  the  rate the national average  थी  in  the   1920s  , and greenhouse gas emissions are a  भिन्न  of the national average , at 7.1 metric tons per person per  साल  , below San Francisco  ,  at  11.2  metric tons ,  और  the national average , at 24.5 metric  टन  .
New York City accounts  लिये   तभी   1  % of  संयुक्त   राज्य   ग्रीनहाउस  gas emissions while housing 2.7 % of its population  .
In September 2012 , New York was  नामित  the # 1 `` America 's Dirtiest City , '' by a Travel+Leisure readership survey  कि  rated the environmental quality of 35 prominent cities in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
अटलांटा  ( , stressed , locally ) is  the  capital of and the most  populous  city in the U.S. state of Georgia , with an estimated 2011 population  of  432,427  .
Atlanta is the cultural  और  economic center of  the  Atlanta  महानगर   क्षेत्रफल  ,  घर  to 5,457,831 people and the ninth largest metropolitan area in the United  राज्य  .
Atlanta is the county seat of Fulton County  ,  and a small portion of the city  extends  eastward into DeKalb  काउंटी  .
Atlanta was  स्थापित   in  1837 at the intersection of  दो  railroad lines ,  और  the city rose  इससे  the ashes of  the  Civil War to become a national center of commerce .
in  the decades following the  सिविल  Rights  गति  , during which the city earned a  प्रतिष्ठा  as `` too busy to hate ''  लिये  the progressive views of its citizens and leaders ,  अटलांटा   attained   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  prominence  .
Atlanta is the primary transportation hub of the Southeastern United  राज्य  , via highway , railroad , and air  ,  with Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport being the world  's  busiest airport  चूंकि  1998 .
Atlanta  is   माना  an `` alpha ( - ) world  नगर   ,  '' and , with a gross domestic  उत्पाद  of US $ 270 billion , Atlanta’s  अर्थव्यवस्था  ranks 15th among world cities and sixth  in  the nation .
Although Atlanta’s economy is considered  विविध  , dominant sectors include logistics  ,   पेशेवर  and  कारोबार  services , media operations ,  सरकारी  administration  ,  and  उच्चतर  education  .
Topographically , Atlanta  is  marked by rolling hills  और  dense  पेड़  coverage .
Revitalization of Atlanta 's neighborhoods ,  initially  spurred by the 1996 Olympics ,  रै   intensified  in  the  21st century , altering the city 's  जनसांख्यिकी  , politics , and  संस्कृति  .
A  1947  propaganda comic  किताब  published  by  the Catechetical Guild  शैक्षणिक   समाज  raising  the   specter  of a Communist takeover
McCarthyism is the practice of making accusations of  disloyalty  , subversion  ,  or treason without proper regard for evidence  .
it  also means `` the practice of  बनाना  unfair allegations or using  अन्यायपूर्ण   investigative  techniques  ,  especially in order  to  restrict  dissent   or   राजनैतिक  criticism .  ''
The term has its origins in the  काल   in  the United States known as the Second Red Scare , lasting roughly from 1950 to 1956 and  characterized  by  heightened   fears  of communist influence on American institutions and espionage by Soviet agents  .
originally  coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of Republican U.S . Senator  जोसेफ  McCarthy of  विस्कॉन्सिन  , `` McCarthyism '' soon took on a broader meaning , describing the excesses of similar efforts  .
The term is also  अभी  used more generally to  describe  reckless , unsubstantiated  आरोपों   ,   as  well as demagogic attacks on the  अक्षर  or patriotism of  राजनैतिक   adversaries  .
During  the  McCarthy era , thousands of Americans were accused of being Communists  or  communist  sympathizers  and became the  विषय  of aggressive investigations and questioning  पहले  government or  private-industry  panels , committees and agencies .
The primary targets of such  suspicions  were government employees , those  in  the entertainment industry , educators and union activists .
Suspicions were often given  credence  despite inconclusive or questionable evidence ,  और  the level  of  threat posed by a person 's real or supposed  वामपंथी  associations or beliefs  थी   प्रायः  greatly exaggerated .
Many people suffered loss of employment and/or destruction of their careers ; some even  suffered  imprisonment .
Most of these punishments came about through trial verdicts  बाद  overturned , laws that would be declared unconstitutional ,  dismissals  for reasons later declared illegal  or  actionable , or extra-legal procedures that  होता  come  into   सामान्य  disrepute .
The  सबसे  famous  उदाहरण   of  McCarthyism include the  भाषणों  ,  investigations  , and hearings of Senator McCarthy himself  ;  the Hollywood  ब्लैकलिस्ट  , associated with  hearings  conducted by the House  un-american   क्रियाएँ   कमेटी  ( HUAC )  ;  and the various anti-communist activities  of  the  संघीय   ब्यूरो  of Investigation ( FBI ) under Director J.  एडगर  Hoover .
McCarthyism  थी  a widespread social and cultural  घटना  that  प्रभावित  all levels of society and was  the  source of  a   ग्रेट  deal of debate and conflict in  the  United States .
Napoleon  is  a fictional character and the main antagonist  in  George Orwell 's  एनिमल  Farm .
While  he  is  at  first a common farm pig , he gets rid of Snowball  ,  another pig which shares the power .
He  तब  takes advantage  of   the  animals ' uprising against  उनके  masters to eventually become the tyrannical `` President of Animal  फार्म   ,  '' which he turns into a dictatorship .
NEPTUNE logo
the  NEPTUNE  कनाडा  project is  the  world’s first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory  कि  plugs directly into the Internet .
Since December 2009 , it  रै  allowed people  to  `` surf '' the seafloor while ocean scientists run  deep-water   प्रयोग  from labs  और  universities  around  the  संसार  .
Along with  इसके  sister  प्रोजेक्ट  ,  शुक्र  ,  वरुण  offers a unique approach to ocean science .
Traditionally , ocean  वैज्ञानिकों  have relied  on  infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to  carry  out their research ,  जबकि  the NEPTUNE project uses a remotely operated  क्रॉलर  .
The Coronet was a full-size car from Dodge in the 1950s , initially the  प्रभाग  's highest trim line but  ,  starting in 1955 , the  न्यूनतम  trim line .
In  the  1960s , the name was transferred to Dodge 's mid-size entry .
ARM9 is  an  ARM architecture 32-bit RISC CPU family  .
Commonwealth is a traditional English  पद  for  a   राजनैतिक  community founded for the  आम  good  .
Historically  ,  it has  sometimes  been synonymous with `` republic `` .
More recently it has  महरूम  used for fraternal  एसोसिएशन   of  some  sovereign  nations .
सबसे  notably , the Commonwealth of Nations  ,  an association primarily of former members of the British Empire , is often  referred  to as simply `` the  राष्ट्रमंडल  '' .
The  सितंबर   11  attacks ( also referred to as September  11  , September  11th  , or 9/11  )  were a series of four coordinated terrorist attacks launched by  the   इस्लामी  terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United  राज्य  in New York City and the Washington  ,  D.C.  क्षेत्रफल  on September 11 , 2001 .
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19  al-qaeda  terrorists  so  they could be flown into buildings in suicide  हमले  .
Two of those planes ,  अमरीकी  Airlines Flight  11   और  United Airlines Flight 175 , were crashed into the North and South towers , respectively  ,  of the World Trade  बीच  complex in New  यॉर्क   नगर  .
Within two  घंटों  , both towers collapsed with debris and  the  resulting fires causing partial  or  complete collapse of all other buildings in  the   wtc  complex , as well as major  क्षति  to  टेन  other  विशाल   surrounding   structures  .
A  तीसरा   प्लेन  ,  अमरीकी  Airlines Flight  77  , was crashed into the Pentagon (  the  headquarters of the United States  विभाग   of  Defense ) , leading to a partial collapse in its western side .
The fourth plane , United Airlines  उड़ान   93  , was  targeted  at the United States  कैपिटल  in Washington  ,  D.C.  ,  but crashed  into  a field  निकट  Shanksville , Pennsylvania , after its  यात्री  tried to overcome  the  hijackers .
In total , almost 3,000 people  died  in the attacks , including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the  चार  planes .
Suspicion quickly  गिरी  on al-Qaeda .
Although the group  's  leader ,  ओसामा  bin Laden , initially denied  कोई  involvement ,  in  2004 he  claimed  responsibility for the  हमले  .
Al-Qaeda  और   बिन  Laden cited  u.S.  support of Israel  ,   the  presence  of  U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia , and sanctions against Iraq as motives  लिये  the  हमले  .
The United States responded  to   the  attacks by  शुभारंभ  the War on Terror and invading Afghanistan to depose the Taliban  ,  which  था  harbored al-Qaeda .
Many countries strengthened their  anti-terrorism  legislation and  विस्तारित  law  प्रवर्तन  powers .
Having evaded  कैप्चर  for years ,  बिन  Laden was located  और   मारे  by U.S. forces in May 2011 .
The  विनाश   of  the Twin Towers and other properties caused serious damage to the economy of Lower Manhattan and had a  significant  effect on global markets .
क्लीनअप  of  the  World Trade Center site was completed in May 2002 , and the Pentagon  थी  repaired within a year  .
Numerous  memorials  have been constructed , including the  नेशनल  September  11  Memorial &  संग्रहालय  in New  यॉर्क  , the Pentagon Memorial ,  और  the Flight 93 National Memorial in  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
After a lengthy delay ,  the  One World Trade Center is  अपेक्षित  to be completed  at  Ground Zero in New York City in 2013 .
Crater Lake National Park is a  संयुक्त  States National Park located in southern Oregon  .
Established in  1902   ,  Crater Lake  नेशनल  Park is the fifth  oldest  national park  in  the United States and the only one in  the  state of Oregon .
The park encompasses the caldera  of  Crater  झील  , a  remnant  of a destroyed volcano , Mount Mazama , and the  surrounding   पहाड़ियाँ  and  वनों  .
the  lake is  गहन  at its deepest point , which makes it the deepest lake  in  the United States , the second deepest in North America and the  नवीं  deepest in  the   संसार  .
Crater Lake is often  referred  to  as  the seventh deepest  झील  in  the  world  ,   लकिन  this  पूर्व  listing excludes the approximately depth of subglacial Lake  वोस्तोक  in Antarctica ,  जिससे  resides under nearly of ice  ,  and the recent report  of  a maximum  गहराई  for Lake O'Higgins /San Martin , located  on  the border of Chile  और  Argentina .
however  , when comparing its average depth of to the average depth of other deep lakes  ,  Crater Lake becomes the deepest in the  पश्चिमी  Hemisphere and the third deepest in the world .
the  impressive average depth of this volcanic lake  is  due to  the  nearly  सममित  deep caldera formed  7,700  years ago during the violent  climactic  eruptions and subsequent collapse  of   माउंट  Mazama and the  अपेक्षाकृत  moist  जलवायु   कि  is typical of the crest of the Cascade Range .
The  caldera  rim ranges in elevation from .
The  संयुक्त  States Geological Survey benchmarked elevation  of   the  lake  सतह   itself  is .
इस  National  पार्क   encompasses  .
Crater Lake  रै  no streams flowing into or  आउट  of it .
All water that enters  the  lake is eventually lost from  वाष्पीकरण  or subsurface seepage .
The lake 's water commonly has  a  striking blue hue , and  the  lake is re-filled entirely  इससे  direct precipitation in the form  of   हिम  and rain .
The Supreme Court  of   the  United  राज्य  is the highest  अदालत  in  the  United States .
It  रै  ultimate ( and largely discretionary  )  appellate jurisdiction over all federal  न्यायालयों  and over state court cases involving issues  of  federal law , and original jurisdiction over a small  दायरा  of cases .
The Court , which meets in the United States Supreme Court Building in Washington , D.C. , consists  of  a  मुख्य  justice and eight associate justices who are nominated by  the   अध्यक्ष  and confirmed by the  संयुक्त  States  सीनेट  .
Once appointed , justices have life tenure unless they resign , retire , or are removed after impeachment .
conroe  is the seat of Montgomery County and falls  भीतर   the  metropolitan area .
It  is  located about north of  ह्यूस्टन  .
As of July 2011 ,  the  city population was 58,973 , up  इससे   36,811  in  2000   .
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text  of  the Latter Day Saint movement , which  adherents  believe contains writings of ancient prophets  जो  lived on the  अमरीकी  continent from approximately 2200 BC to AD  421  .
It was first published in March 1830 by Joseph Smith as The Book of Mormon : An Account Written by the Hand of Mormon upon  प्लेटों  Taken from the Plates of Nephi .
according   to  Smith 's account , and also according to  the  book  's  narrative , the Book of Mormon was originally written in  वरना  unknown characters referred to as ``  reformed  Egyptian `` engraved on golden plates .
Smith claimed that the last prophet  to  contribute to the book , a man  नामित  Moroni  ,  buried  it   in  a hill in  present-day  New  यॉर्क  and then returned to earth in 1827 as an  देवदूत  ,  revealing   the  location  of  the book to Smith and instructing him to translate and  disseminate  it  as  evidence of the restoration of Christ 's true  गिरिजाघर  in the latter  दिनों  .
The Book of  mormon  has a  क्रमांक  of original and distinctive doctrinal discussions on subjects such  as  the fall of Adam and Eve  ,  the nature of the Atonement ,  eschatology  ,  मोचन  from physical and spiritual death , and the organization of the latter-day  गिरिजाघर  .
The pivotal event of  the   किताब   is  an  रूप   of  Jesus Christ to the Americas  shortly  after his resurrection .
The Book of Mormon is the earliest of the unique writings of  the  Latter Day  संत  movement , the denominations of  जिससे  typically regard  the  text not only as scripture but  भी   as  a historical record of God  's  dealings  साथ   the   प्राचीन  inhabitants  of  the Americas .
The Book of Mormon is divided into  छोटी  books  ,  titled  बाद  the individuals named as primary  लेखक  and , in most versions  ,  divided into chapters  और   आयतें   .
It is written in English , very similar to the  जल्दी  Modern English linguistic  स्टाइल  of the King  जेम्स  Version of the Bible ,  और   रै  since been fully or partially translated  into  108 languages .
an   आयोजिक  rank  (  also known  as  an enlisted grade  or  enlisted rate ) is , in most militaries , any  रैंक  below that  of  a commissioned  अधिकारी  or  वारंट  officer .
The  पद  can also be inclusive of non-commissioned officers  .
In most  मामले   ,  enlisted service personnel perform jobs specific  to  their own occupational specialty , as opposed to the  अधिक  generalized command responsibilities of  commissioned  officers .
`` What a Wonderful  संसार  '' is a song written by  bob  Thiele  (   as  ``  जार्ज  Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss .
it  was first  अंकित  by Louis Armstrong and  released  as a single  in  1967 .
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent  in  the music world ( Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ) .
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the Grammy  हॉल  of Fame in  1999  .
The publishing  लिये  this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music  समूह  , Carlin Music Corp. ,  और  Bug Music , Inc .
1908 poster advertising Gaumont 's sound films .
the  Chronomégaphone , designed for large  हॉल  , employed compressed air to amplify  the   अंकित  sound .
A sound film is a motion picture with synchronized sound , or sound technologically  coupled   to  image ,  as   opposed  to  a  silent film .
the   पहला  known public exhibition of  प्रक्षिप्त  sound films took place in  पेरिस  in 1900 , but decades  होता   pass  before sound motion pictures  यहूद  made commercially practical  .
Reliable synchronization was difficult to achieve with the early sound-on-disc systems , and amplification  और   रिकॉर्डिंग  quality were also inadequate .
Innovations in  sound-on-film  led to the first commercial screening of short  गति  pictures  using  the technology ,  जिससे  took place  in  1923 .
The  प्राथमिक  steps in the commercialization of sound cinema were taken  in  the mid- to  लेट  1920s .
At first , the sound films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known  as  `` talking pictures '' , or `` talkies '' —were exclusively shorts ;  the  earliest  feature-length  movies with recorded sound  शामिल   तभी  music and effects .
The  पहला   विशेषता  film originally presented as a talkie  थी   the  Jazz Singer , released  in   अक्तूबर  1927 .
a  major hit ,  it  was  बना  with Vitaphone , the leading brand of sound-on-disc technology .
Sound-on-film , however , would soon  become   the   मानक  for talking  तस्वीरें   .
By the early 1930s , the talkies were a  वैश्विक   घटना  .
In the United States , they  helped   सुरक्षित  Hollywood 's position  as  one of  the  world  's  most powerful cultural/commercial systems ( see Cinema of the United States ) .
in   यूरोपीय  ( and , to a lesser degree , elsewhere ) the new development was treated with suspicion  by  many filmmakers and critics  ,  who worried that a  फ़ोकस  on dialogue would subvert the unique aesthetic virtues of  soundless  cinema .
in  Japan ,  जहाँ  the popular film tradition integrated silent movie and live vocal  प्रदर्शन  , talking pictures were slow to take  रूट  .
in  India ,  ध्वनि  was the transformative element that led to the  रैपिड  expansion of  the  nation 's film  industry—the  most productive such industry in  the  world since  the  early  1960s  .
African people are natives  or  inhabitants of Africa and people of  अफ़्रीकी  descent .
The Australian Recording Industry  संघ  Music Awards (  commonly  known  as  ARIA  म्यूज़िक  Awards or  aria  Awards ) is an annual series of awards nights celebrating the Australian music  उद्योग  , put on by the Australian Recording Industry Association  (  ARIA ) .
The event  रै  been held annually  चूंकि  1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific and popular  पुरस्कार  (  ये  are  कया  is usually  होने  referred to as `` the ARIA awards '' ) as well as  ठीक  Arts Awards and Artisan Awards ( held separately from 2004 ) ,  आजीवन  Achievement  पुरस्कार  and ARIA  हॉल   of   कीर्ति  – held separately from  2005   to  2010  लकिन  returned to the general ceremony in 2011 .
For 2010 ,  aria  introduced public voted awards for  the  first time  .
जीतना  ,  or   भी  being nominated for , an ARIA award results in a lot of  मीडिया  attention on an artist , and usually increases recording sales several-fold –  in  2005  ,  for example ,  बाद  Ben Lee won three awards , his album Awake Is the New Sleep jumped  इससे  No . 31 to No . 5 in the ARIA  चार्ट  , its highest position .
For-profit  शिक्षा  (  भी   ज्ञात  as the education services industry  or  proprietary  शिक्षा   )  refers to educational institutions operated by private ,  लाभ  -seeking businesses  .
There are  तीन  types of for-profit schools .
One type is known as an  शैक्षणिक  management  संगठन  ( EMO ) ,  और   ये  are primary and secondary  शैक्षणिक  institutions .
emos  work with school  जिले  or charter schools  ,   using  public funds to finance operations .
The majority of for-profit schools in the K–12  सेक्टर  in  अमेरिका  function as EMOs  ,  and  have  grown in  क्रमांक   in  the  mid-2000s  .
the  other major  श्रेणी  of for-profit schools are post-secondary institutions which operate as businesses , receiving fees from each student they enroll  .
A  तीसरा  type of for-profit schools , which is  कम  prevalent in the United States  ,  are K–12 schools which operate as businesses .
EMOs  फलन  differently from charter schools created  in  order  to  carry out a particular  शिक्षण  pedagogy ; most charter schools  हैं  mission-oriented  ,  while EMOs and other for-profit institutions are market-oriented  .
While supporters argue  कि  the  लाभ  motive encourages efficiency  ,  this arrangement has also  drawn  controversy and criticism .
Kevin Carey , director  of  the education policy program of the New American Foundation said in  a  2010 column  in  The Chronicle of  उच्चतर  Education that `` For-profits exist in large part to fix educational market failures left  by  traditional institutions , and they profit by serving students that public and private nonprofit institutions too often  ignore  . ''
he  also noted that  ``  There  's   no  doubt  कि  the worst for-profits  हैं   निर्मम  exploiting the commodified college degree .
लकिन  they did n't commodify it  in  the first  प्लेस  . ''
Amendment XXII in the  नेशनल  Archives
The Twenty-second Amendment  of  the United States  संविधान   सेट  a term limit for election to the office of President of the United States .
Congress passed the  amendment  on March 21 , 1947 .
It was ratified by the requisite number of states on February 27 , 1951  .
This is  an  episode guide for  the  anime series Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo .
This list encompasses  प्रत्येक  episode , beginning with the original Japanese-language title as they aired on  tv  Asahi ,  followed  by the  शीर्षक  used in  the  English dubbed version airing in the United States on Cartoon Network .
A short summary  होगा   follow  , introducing the episode and  referring   to  some of the  ढकोसला  , but not  giving  the  पूरा  summaries to  the  episodes .
All names and  कुछ  of the references will be the ones used from the English-language  संस्करण  to  avoid  confusion  .
Japanese  names  may be presented after the dub name in parentheses .
This article is  परिचय  the public  पार्क  in  नई  York City .
For other uses  ,   देखिए  Central Park ( disambiguation ) .
Central Park is  a  public park at the  बीच  of Manhattan  in  New York City .
the   पार्क   initially  opened in 1857 , on  of  city-owned land  (  it is 843 acres  आज  ) .
In  1858  ,  फ्रेडरिक  Law Olmsted and Calvert  vaux  won a  डिज़ाइन  competition to improve and  विस्तार  the park with a plan they  हकदार  the Greensward Plan .
निर्माण  began the same year , continued during  the   अमरीकी   सिविल  War , and was completed in 1873 .
Central Park is the most visited urban  पार्क  in the  संयुक्त  States .
Designated a  नेशनल  Historic Landmark in  1962  , the  पार्क  is currently managed by the Central Park Conservancy under contract  साथ  the city government .
The Conservancy is  a  non-profit  संगठन   कि  contributes 83.5 % of Central  पार्क  's $  37.5  million annual budget , and employs  80.7  % of the park  's  maintenance staff .
TracFone Wireless  ,   inc.  is  a  prepaid  बेतार  service provider operating in the  संयुक्त  States  सहित   प्यूर्टो  Rico and the US Virgin Islands and  is  a  subsidiary  of Mexico 's largest  दूरसंचार   प्रदाता  ,  américa  Móvil .
As a  मोबाईल  Virtual Network Operator (  mvno   )  , TracFone  बेतार  holds  अनेक  agreements  साथ   the  US largest  बेतार  telecommunications companies to utilize their networks to provide service including those  of  Verizon , AT & T , Sprint , and T-Mobile .
TracFone Wireless offers its  बेतार   उत्पाद  under multiple brands which each also  प्रस्ताव  distinctive service plans , the brands include  tracfone  , NET10 Wireless , Straight Talk , SafeLink  बेतार  , Telcel América  और  Simple Mobile .
A grab  dredge
Dredging is an excavation activity  or   आपरेशन  usually carried out at least partly  भाटे   ,   in  shallow seas or fresh water areas with  the  purpose of gathering up bottom  sediments   और  disposing of them at  a  different location  .
This technique  is   प्रायः  used to keep waterways navigable .
It is also  प्रयुक्त  as  a  way to replenish sand  on  some public beaches , where sand has been lost because  of  coastal erosion .
Dredging is also used as a technique for fishing for  निश्चित   प्रजाति  of edible clams  और  crabs ,  देखिए  fishing dredge  .
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the general usage in the Americas ) is any device ,  यंत्र  , or  पोत  that  is   प्रयुक्त  to excavate and remove  सामग्री  from the bottom of  a  body of water .
For example  ,  a scoop attached  to   the   समाप्त  of a rope or pole by which  a   man  can draw sediments up from the  नीचे  of a pond is a dredger  .
Developing this idea further , a  motorized   क्रेन  equipped with a drag bucket or clamshell ( grabber  )  that is used to scoop material from  the  bottom of a  देह  of water is also a dredger .
The crane could be located on the bank  ,  or perhaps  आरोहित   on  a barge .
If the crane  is  mounted  on  a barge  ,  the entire vessel is  referred  to  as  a dredger .
The process of  dredging  creates spoils (  excess   सामग्री  ) ,  जिससे  are carried away from  the   dredged   क्षेत्रफल  .
dredging  can  उपज   सामग्री  for land reclamation  or  other purposes ( usually construction-related ) , and has  भी  historically played a significant role in gold  खनन  .
Dredging can create disturbance in aquatic ecosystems , often with adverse impacts  .
Cleveland  ज्वालामुखी  in  the   aleutian  Islands  of  Alaska  photographed  from  the  International  स्पेस  Station , May  2006   .
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km during  the  climactic eruption  at  Mount  pinatubo   ,  Philippines in 1991 .
A  ज्वालामुखी  is an opening , or rupture , in a planet 's surface  or   क्रस्ट  ,  जिससे  allows hot magma  ,  volcanic  राख   और  gases to escape from the magma chamber below  the  surface .
Volcanoes  हैं   generally  found  जहाँ  tectonic plates  हैं  diverging or  converging  .
A mid-oceanic ridge ,  लिये  example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge , has examples of  ज्वालामुखी  caused  by  divergent tectonic plates pulling  अलावा  ; the  प्रशांत  Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused  by  convergent tectonic plates coming together  .
By contrast  ,  volcanoes are  प्रायः  not created where two tectonic plates slide past  एक  another .
ज्वालामुखी  can also form where there is stretching and thinning  of  the Earth 's crust in the interiors of  प्लेटों  , e.g.  ,   in   the  East African Rift ,  the  Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America .
This type of volcanism  जलप्रपात  under the umbrella of `` Plate hypothesis ''  volcanism  .
Volcanism away from plate boundaries has  भी  been  समझाया  as mantle plumes .
These so-called `` hotspots `` , for example Hawaii , are postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma from the  core–mantle  boundary ,  3,000  km deep  in  the  धरती  .
Erupting  ज्वालामुखी  can pose many hazards , not only  in  the  तात्कालिक  vicinity of the  फटना  .
Volcanic  राख  can be a threat to  वायुयान  , in particular those with  जेट  engines where ash particles can be  melted  by the high operating temperature .
Large eruptions can  affect   तापमान  as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the  धरती  's lower atmosphere or troposphere ; however , they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth , thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically  ,   so-called  volcanic winters have caused catastrophic famines .
बेनेडिक्ट   अर्नाल्ड   (  June 14 , 1801 ) was a  सामान्य  during  the  American Revolutionary War who originally fought for the American Continental Army but defected to the British Army  .
While a general on the American  पक्ष  , he obtained command of the  फोर्ट  at West Point , New York , and planned to  आत्मसमर्पण   it  to the  अंग्रेजों  forces .
After the plan was exposed  in  September 1780 , he was commissioned  into  the  अंग्रेजों  Army  as  a brigadier general .
Born in  कनेक्टिकट   ,  Arnold was a merchant operating ships on the  अटलांटिक  Ocean  जब   the  war broke out in 1775 .
After joining the growing army outside  बोस्टन  , he distinguished himself through acts of intelligence  और   वीरता  .
उसके  actions included the Capture  of  Fort Ticonderoga in 1775 ,  रक्षात्मक  and delaying tactics despite losing  the  Battle of Valcour Island  on  Lake Champlain  in  1776 ,  the  Battle of Ridgefield , Connecticut ( after which  he   थी  promoted to  प्रमुख   सामान्य  ) , operations in relief of the  घेरा   of  Fort Stanwix ,  और  key actions during the pivotal Battles  of  Saratoga in 1777  ,  in which he  suffered  leg injuries that ended  उसके   कॉम्बैट  career for  अनेक  years .
despite  Arnold 's successes , he was passed  over   लिये  promotion  by  the Continental Congress while other officers claimed credit for  कुछ   of  his  accomplishments   .
adversaries   in  military and  राजनैतिक  circles brought charges of corruption or  अन्य  malfeasance , but most often he  थी   acquitted  in formal inquiries .
Congress investigated  उसके   खाते   और  found  he  was indebted to  कॉंग्रेस  after  बिता   much  of his own money on the war effort .
Frustrated and bitter , Arnold decided to  बदलें  sides in 1779 , and  खोली   रहस्य  negotiations  साथ  the British  .
In July 1780 , he was offered , continued to pursue  और   थी  awarded command of West  पाइंट   .
Arnold  's  scheme  to  surrender the fort to the British was exposed  जब  American forces captured British  प्रमुख  John André carrying papers  कि  revealed the plot .
Upon learning of André 's capture  ,  Arnold fled  bas  the Hudson River to the British sloop-of-war Vulture , narrowly avoiding capture  by  the forces of George Washington , who had  महरूम  alerted to  the  plot .
Arnold received a commission as a brigadier general in the  अंग्रेजों   फौज  ,  an  annual  पेंशन  of  £360  , and a  lump  sum of over £6,000 .
He  led   अंग्रेजों  forces on raids  in  Virginia ,  और   विरूद्ध  New London and Groton  ,  Connecticut , before the  युद्ध  effectively ended with the American victory  at  Yorktown  .
In the winter of 1782 , Arnold moved  to  London with his second  बीवी  , Margaret `` Peggy '' Shippen Arnold .
He was  खूब  received  by   किंग  George  iii   और  the Tories but frowned  upon  by the Whigs .
In  1787  ,  he  returned to the merchant business with his sons Richard  और   हेनरी   in  Saint John , New Brunswick .
He returned to London to settle  permanently  in 1791 , where he  died  ten years later .
Because of the way he changed sides , his name quickly  became  a in the United  राज्य  for treason or betrayal .
His conflicting legacy is recalled in the ambiguous  प्रकृति  of some of the  memorials  that have been placed in his honor .
Curtis Montague Schilling (  born   नवम्बर  14  ,  1966 ) is a former American Major League  बेसबॉल  right-handed pitcher and Video Game developer .
he  helped lead  the  Philadelphia Phillies to the World Series in and won  संसार  Series championships in with the  एरिज़ोना  Diamondbacks  और  in  और  with the Boston  रेड  Sox .
schilling  retired with a career  postseason  record of 11–2  .
His .846  postseason  winning percentage  is  a  major-league  record among pitchers with at least 10 decisions .
After retiring  ,   he   संस्थापित  Green Monster Games which was  renamed  38 Studios  .
The company released Kingdoms of Amalur : Reckoning in February 2012 , but  बस  three months later , Schilling laid off  उसके   संपूर्ण  staff amid severe financial troubles that  resulted  in  the   कम्पनी  missing  payroll  the previous week .
स्टार   युद्धों  is an American  एपिक  space  ओपेरा  franchise centered on  a   फिल्मी  series created  by  George Lucas .
The film series  रै  spawned  a  media  मताधिकार  outside  the  film series  पुकारा   the  Expanded  ब्रह्मांड  including books  ,  television  श्रेणी  , computer and video games ,  और  comic books .
These supplements to the film trilogies have  resulted  in significant  विकास  of  the  series ' fictional universe .
These media kept the franchise active in the interim between the film trilogies .
The franchise portrays a galaxy that is described as far  ,  far away  in  the distant  पास्ट  .
It commonly portrays Jedi as a representation  of   शुभ  ,  in  conflict with the Sith  ,  their evil counterpart  .
Their weapon of choice , the lightsaber  ,  is commonly recognized  in  popular culture  .
the  fictional universe also contains many themes , especially influences of philosophy and religion .
The first film  in  the series was originally released on  may  25 , 1977 , under the title Star Wars  ,  by 20th Century Fox , and became  a   विश्वव्यापी   पॉप  culture phenomenon , followed  by  two  सिक्वेल  , released at three-year intervals .
Sixteen years after the release  of  the  त्रयी   's   फाइनल  film , the  पहला  in a new  प्रीक्वेल  trilogy  of  films was  released  .
The  तीन   प्रीक्वेल  films were also  released  at three-year intervals , with the final film  of  the trilogy released on  may   19  , 2005 .
In October 2012 , The Walt Disney Company  acquired   लुकासफ़िल्म  for $  4.05   अरब  and announced that it would produce three new films ,  साथ  the first film ,  स्टार  Wars Episode  सात  , planned  लिये  release in 2015 .
20th  Century Fox  स्टिल  retains the distribution rights to the first two Star Wars trilogies ,  owning   स्थाई  rights  लिये  the original film  एपीसोड  IV : A New Hope , while  पकड़कर   the   अधिकारों   to   एपीसोड  I–III ,  v   और  VI until May 2020 .
Reactions to  the  original trilogy were  ज़्यादातर   धनात्मक   ,  with  the  last film being considered  the  weakest  ,   जबकि  the prequel trilogy received a more mixed reaction , with  सबसे   of  the praise being for the final movie , according  to  most review aggregator  वेबसाइटों  .
All six of  the  main films  in  the  श्रेणी  were also nominated  लिये   or  won Academy Awards .
सब   of  the main  films   have  been box office  सफलताओं   ,  with the overall box office revenue generated by the Star  युद्धों  films (  सहित  the theatrical Star Wars : The Clone Wars  )  totalling  $  4.49 billion  ,  making it the  third-highest-grossing  film  श्रेणी   .
The  कामयाबी  has also led to multiple re-releases  in  theaters for the  श्रेणी  .
Plateletpheresis ( more accurately called thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis , though these names are  rarely  used ) is the process of  collecting  thrombocytes ,  अधिक  commonly called  प्लेटलेट्स  ,  a  component of  रक्त  involved in blood  clotting   .
The term specifically refers to the method of collecting the platelets , which  is  performed by a device used in blood donation that separates the platelets and returns other portions of the blood to the donor .
Platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating serious complications  इससे  bleeding and  hemorrhage  in patients who  have   विकार   manifesting   as  thrombocytopenia  (  low platelet count )  or  platelet dysfunction  .
This  प्रक्रम  may also be used therapeutically to treat disorders resulting in extraordinarily  ऊँची  platelet counts such as essential thrombocytosis .
in   कंप्यूटर   नेटवर्किंग   ,  a port is  an  application-specific or process-specific software construct serving as a  संचार   endpoint  in a computer 's host operating system .
A port is associated with  an  IP address of the host , as well as  the  type  of  protocol used for communication .
The  purpose  of ports is  to  uniquely identify different applications or processes running on  a  single  कंप्यूटर  and thereby enable them to share  a  single physical  कनेक्शन  to a packet-switched network like the Internet .
The protocols that primarily use ports are the Transport  परत  protocols , such as  the  Transmission Control Protocol  (  TCP ) and the User Datagram Protocol (  यूडीपी  ) of  the  Internet Protocol Suite .
a   बंदरगाहों  is identified for each  पता   और  protocol by a 16-bit number , commonly  ज्ञात   as  the port number .
The port number ,  added  to a computer 's IP address , completes the  गंतव्य  address for a communications session .
That  is  ,  आंकड़ा  packets are routed across the network to a specific destination IP address , and then , upon  reaching  the destination computer , are further routed to  the  specific process  बंधी  to the destination port number .
Note that it is the  संयोजन  of IP address and port number  साथ  that  जरूर   be  globally unique .
Thus , different IP  पता  or protocols may use the same port number  लिये  communication ; e.g. , on a given host or interface UDP and TCP  may   उपयोग   the  same port number , or on a host with two  अंतरफलक  , both addresses may be associated  साथ  a port having the same  क्रमांक  .
Of the thousands of enumerated ports ,  परिचय  250 well-known ports are  सुरक्षित  by convention to  पहचानो  specific  सेवा  types on a host .
In the  client-server   मॉडल  of application  वास्तुकला  , ports are used to provide a multiplexing service  on  each server-side port number that network clients connect to for service initiation , after which communication can be reestablished on other connection-specific  बंदरगाहों  numbers .
Area code 479 is the telephone area code serving thirteen counties in northwest Arkansas , including the cities of Fort Smith , Fayetteville ,  springdale  , Rogers and Bentonville : the second ,  तीसरा   ,   चौथी  , eighth and  tenth-largest  cities in the state  ,  respectively .
It  थी  created  in  2002 in a split  इससे  area code  501  .
Area code 479 serves Benton , Carroll ( split with area code 870 ) , Crawford , Franklin  ,  Johnson , Logan ,  मैडिसन  , Polk , Pope , Scott ,  सेबेस्टियन   ,  Washington and Yell Counties in Arkansas .
Arraignment  is  a formal reading of a criminal charging document in the presence of the defendant to  inform  the defendant of the charges against him or her .
in  response to  arraignment  ,  the  accused is  अपेक्षित  to  डालें  a  दलील  .
Acceptable  pleas  vary among jurisdictions , but they generally include `` guilty '' , `` not guilty ''  ,  and  the  peremptory pleas  (  or  pleas  in bar )  सेटिंग   आउट   कारण   क्यों   a   विचारण   can  not proceed .
pleas  of `` nolo contendere `` ( no  प्रतियोगिता  )  और  the ``  alford  plea ``  हैं  allowed in some  हालातों   .
In England , Wales , Northern Ireland  और   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , arraignment is the first  of   ग्यारह  stages in a criminal  विचारण  , and involves  the  clerk of the  अदालत   पढना  out the indictment .
The defendant is asked whether he or she pleads guilty or not  अपराधी  to each charge .
In federal courts  of   the   संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  arraignment  takes place  in  two stages .
The first is called the initial arraignment and must take place  भीतर  48 hours of an individual  's  arrest ,  72  hours if the individual was  गिरफ्तार   on  the weekend and  नहीं  able to go before  a  judge until Monday .
During this arraignment the defendant is informed  of  the pending legal charges and  is  informed  of  his or her right to retain counsel .
The  पीठासीन  judge  भी  decides at  कया  amount , if any  ,   to  set bail  .
दौरान  the second arraignment , a post-indictment arraignment or PIA , the defendant is allowed to  डालें  a plea .
Geoffrey  चासर  ( ; c. 1343 –  25  October 1400 ) , known as  the   पिता  of  अंग्रेज़ी   साहित्य  , is widely considered the  महानतम  English poet of the Middle Ages and was the first  कवि  to have been  दफ्न  in Poet 's Corner of Westminster Abbey .
While he achieved fame  दौरान   उसके  lifetime as an author , philosopher  ,  alchemist and astronomer , composing a scientific treatise  on  the astrolabe for  उसके  ten year-old son Lewis , Chaucer also  कायम   an  active career in the  सिविल  service as a  नौकरशाह   ,  courtier and diplomat .
among  his many  works   ,  which include  the  Book of the Duchess  ,  the House of Fame , the Legend  of   शुभ  Women and Troilus and Criseyde , he is best known today for The Canterbury Tales  .
Chaucer  is  a  निर्णायक  figure in developing the  legitimacy  of the vernacular  ,  Middle English , at a time when the dominant literary  भाषाएं  in England were  फ्रेंच  and  लैटिन  .
The Chicago  blizzard  of 1979  थी   a  major blizzard that affected northern  इलिनोइस   और  northwest Indiana , U.S.  on  January 13  –   जनवरी  14 , 1979 .
of  snow fell on  जनवरी  13 alone , setting a  नई  record  लिये   हिम  in one calendar day .
By the end of January 14 , of snow had fallen  .
The cold weather and snowfall throughout the rest of January and  फ़रवरी  resulted in frozen tracks throughout the Chicago 'L ' system .
Commuters  भीड़  onto CTA  बसें  , quickly overwhelming  क्षमता  ,  resulting  in usual bus commutes of 30-45 minutes taking up to several hours .
To  avoid  huge  snowdrifts   in  the  गलियों  ,  the  overcrowded buses were obliged  to  take numerous detours ,  adding   अतिरिक्त  time  to  the  भ्रमण  .
Deployment of plows was significantly delayed  और  when they finally appeared  वे  struggled  to  keep up with the  हिमपात  .
Much of the snow  remained  unremoved  throughout  the  अगला  2  महीने  , causing  जारी   पब्लिक  transit delays and significant problems with trash collection  .
The  नगर  's inadequate response to the blizzard  थी  blamed primarily on  महापौर   माइकल  Bilandic , who had assumed the post after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley .
Newspaper articles at the time blasted Bilandic  ;  Jane Byrne  ,  Bilandic 's  प्रमुख   राजनैतिक  rival in the  लोकतांत्रिक  primary ( who  था  previously worked with Bilandic in the Daley administration and been fired by Bilandic when the two could not get along )  ,  capitalized on this and went on to  शिकस्त  Bilandic in the February 27 primary .
the  12-hour clock is a time  सम्मेलन   in  which the 24 hours of the day  हैं  divided  into  two periods :  a.m.  ( from the Latin ante meridiem , meaning `` before  midday  '' ) and  p.m.  (  पोस्ट  meridiem , `` after midday '' ) .
Each period consists of 12 hours numbered : 12 ( acting as zero ) , 1 , 2 , 3  ,  4 , 5 , 6 , 7 ,  8  , 9 , 10 , and 11 .
The 12-hour clock  थी  developed  over   समय  from the mid-second millennium BC to the 16th century AD .
Health  बिता  per capita , in $ US PPP-adjusted , with the US and Canada compared amongst other first world nations  .
Comparison of the  स्वास्थ्य  care systems in Canada  और  the United States are often made by government ,  पब्लिक   स्वास्थ्य  and public policy analysts .
The two countries had similar health  परवाह  systems  पहले  Canada reformed its system  in   the  1960s and  1970s  .
The United States spends much  अधिक   धन  on health care than Canada , on both a per-capita  आधार   और   as  a percentage of GDP .
In 2006 , per-capita  बिता  for health care in Canada was  us  $  3,678  ; in the U.S. , US $ 6,714 .
The U.S. spent  15.3  % of GDP on health  परवाह  in  कि   साल  ; Canada spent 10.0 % .
In 2006  ,  70 % of health care spending in Canada  थी  financed  by  government , versus 46 % in the United States .
Total government spending per capita in  the  U.S. on health  परवाह   थी  23 % higher than Canadian government spending , and U.S. government expenditure  on  health care was just under 83 %  of  total Canadian spending ( public and private ) though these  आंकडे  do n't take into account population differences .
Studies have come to different  conclusions  about the result of this disparity  in  spending .
A 2007  पुनर्विलोकन   of  all studies comparing health outcomes  in  Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` health  outcomes  may be  श्रेष्ठ  in patients cared  लिये  in Canada  बनाम  the United States , but differences  हैं  not  सतत  .  ''
Life  प्रत्याशा  is  longer  in Canada , and its infant  मृत्यु   रेट  is lower  than  that of  the   u.S.  , but there  is  debate about the underlying causes  of   ये  differences .
One commonly cited comparison , the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings  of  ``  overall  health service  प्रदर्शन   ''  , which used a `` composite measure  of  achievement  in  the level of health  ,   the  distribution of health  ,  the  स्तर  of responsiveness and fairness of financial  योगदान  '' , ranked  कनाडा  30th and the US 37th  among  191 member nations .
This study  रेटेड  the  us   ``  responsiveness ''  ,  or quality of service for individuals receiving treatment ,  as  1st ,  compared  with 7th for Canada .
While the average life expectancy  लिये  Canadians was  80.34  years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US , simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with different racial makeup and different obesity rates is likely not an effective way of determining which healthcare  प्रणाली  is superior .
The  जो  's study methods were criticized  by  some analyses .
Although there is a  माप  of consensus  कि  life-expectancy and  शिशु  mortality mark the most reliable ways to  compare  nation-wide health care ,  assuming  the population  मेकअप  is similar , a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully  summarizes  some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues  ''  facing international comparisons .
tarantulas   comprise  a group of  प्रायः  hairy and very large arachnids belonging  to  the Theraphosidae family of spiders , of  जिससे  approximately 900 species have been  पहचाना  .
This article only describes members of  theraphosidae  , although some other  सदस्यों   of  the same suborder  हैं  commonly referred to as `` tarantulas '' .
सबसे  species of tarantulas are not dangerous to  इंसानो   ,  and some species  have  become popular in the exotic  पालतु   व्यापार  .
The ton is a unit of  माप  .
It has  a   long   इतिहास  and has acquired a  क्रमांक  of meanings  और  uses over the years .
It is used  प्रधानतया  as a unit of weight , and  as  a  ईकाई  of volume .
It can  भी  be used as  a  measure  of  energy ,  लिये  truck classification  ,  or  as   a  colloquial term .
It is derived from the tun  ,  the term applied to a barrel of the largest size  .
This could  contain  a volume  between   210  and 256 gallons ( 800  to   1000  L )  ,  which could  तौल  around 2,000 pounds ( 900 kg ) and occupy  कुछ  of  स्पेस  .
In the United Kingdom the  ton  is  पारिभाषित   as  (  avoirdupois   पाउंड   )  .
From 1965 the  uk  embarked upon a programme of metrication and gradually introduced metric  इकाई  , including the tonne (  मीट्रिक  ton )  ,   a  non-SI metric unit defined as 1000 kg .
the  UK Weights and Measures  अधिनियम  1985 explicitly excluded from use for trade many units and terms , including the  ton  and the  पद  `` metric ton  ''  for  ``  tonne ''
in   the   संयुक्त  States and  formerly   कनाडा  a ton is defined to  be  .
Where confusion is  संभावित  , the 2240 lb ton is called `` long ton `` and  the   2000  lb ton `` short  ton  `` ; the tonne is distinguished by its  स्पेलिंग  , but  प्रायः  pronounced the same as  ton  , hence the  us  term `` metric ton ''  .
In the UK the final ``  e   ''  of ``  टन  '' can also  be  pronounced ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ )  ,  or `` metric  ton  '' when it  is  necessary to make the distinction .
Where accuracy is required  the  correct  पद  must be used , but for many  उद्देश्य   इस  is  नहीं  necessary : the metric and  long  tons differ  by  only 1.6 % , and  the  short  ton  is  भीतर  11 % of both .
The ton is  the  heaviest unit of weight referred to in colloquial speech .
The term `` ton '' is also used to refer  to  a  क्रमांक  of units of volume , ranging from in capacity .
It can also be used as a unit of energy ,  expressed  as an equivalent of coal burnt , TNT detonated  ,   or  in refrigeration ,  बर्फ  melted .
in  Britain , ton is used in  कठबोली   in  several contexts to mean `` 100 '' .
As a cost  or  a  गति   ,  a ton is  widely  understood  to  be £100 or  100  mph .
The Stanley Cup ( ) is the championship  ट्रॉफी  awarded  annually  to the National Hockey League  (  NHL ) playoff winner  बाद  the conclusion of  the  Stanley Cup  फाइनल  .
originally  commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup ,  the   ट्रॉफी  is named for Lord Stanley of Preston , then- Governor General of Canada , who awarded it to Canada 's top-ranking  amateur  ice hockey club , which the entire Stanley family supported ,  साथ  the  बेटे   और  daughters playing and promoting the game .
The first Cup was  awarded  in 1893 to Montreal HC .
In 1915  ,  the two professional ice hockey organizations , the National  हॉकी  Association ( NHA ) and the Pacific Coast Hockey Association ( PCHA ) , reached a gentlemen 's agreement in  जिससे  their  संबंधित  champions would face each other  लिये  the Stanley Cup  .
After a series of league mergers and  फोल्ड  , the Stanley `` Presentation Cup '' was established  as  the de facto championship trophy of the NHL in 1926 and then the de jure NHL championship prize in 1947  .
There are actually  तीन  Stanley  cups   :  the original  कटोरी  of  the  `` Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup  ''   ,  the  सत्यापित  `` Presentation Cup '' ,  और   the  `` Replica Cup  ''  at  the  Hall  of  Fame .
The NHL has maintained effective control over  दोनो   the  trophy itself and  इसके  associated trademarks .
Nevertheless , the NHL does not actually  अपना  the  ट्रॉफी   ,  but instead  उपयोग  it by agreement with  the  two Trustees  of  the Cup .
The NHL has registered trademarks associated with the name and likeness of the Stanley Cup  ,  although  the   लीग  's right  to   outright  own  trademarks   संबद्ध  with  a   ट्रॉफी  it does not own has been disputed by some legal experts .
नापसंद  the  ट्राफियां  awarded by the other  तीन   प्रमुख  professional sports leagues of North  अमेरिका  ,  a  new Stanley Cup is not made each year ; winners keep it  जबतक  a new champion is crowned .
It  is  unusual among trophies  ,  in that it has the names of all of the  जीतना  players , coaches  ,  management  ,   और  club staff  engraved  on its chalice .
Initially , a new band added each year caused the trophy  to  grow in  आकार   ,   कमाई  the nickname `` Stovepipe Cup '' .
In 1958  the  modern  one-piece   कप  was designed with a five-band barrel  जिससे   could  contain 13 winning teams per  बैंड  .
To avoid the Stanley Cup from growing , when the bottom band is full , the  oldest  band is removed and preserved in the Hockey Hall of Fame , and a  नई  blank band added to the  नीचे  .
It  रै  been referred to as The Cup , Lord  स्टेनली   's  Cup , The Holy  grail  , or facetiously ( chiefly by  sportswriters  ) as Lord Stanley 's Mug .
The  स्टेनली  Cup is surrounded  by  numerous legends and traditions , the  oldest  of which is the celebratory drinking of  शैम्पेन  out of the cup by the winning team .
The  असली  bowl was made of  चांदी  and is 18.5 centimetres ( 7.28  इंच  ) in height and  29  centimetres ( 11.42  इंच  ) in  व्यास  .
The current Stanley Cup  ,  topped  साथ   a  copy  of  the  असली  bowl , is made of a silver and  निकल  alloy  ;   it  has a  ऊँचाई   of   89.54   सेण्टीमीटर  (  35.25  inches  )  and weighs 15.5  गामा  ( 34.5 lb / 2  st  61⁄2 lb )  .
Since the 1914–15  ऋतु  , the Cup has been  जीती  a combined  94  times by 18 active  एनएचएल  teams and  पाँच  defunct  टीमों  .
Prior to  कि  , the challenge cup was  आयोजित  by  नौ  different  टीमों  .
the  Montreal Canadiens have won the Cup a record 24  टाइम्स  and are currently  the  last Canadian-based team  in   the   एनएचएल  to  जीत  the cup after winning it in 1993 .
The  स्टेनली  Cup was not awarded in  1919   क्युकी  of a Spanish flu epidemic ,  और  in 2005 ,  as  a  consequence  of the NHL lockout .
The Pineapple (  ananas  comosus ) is a tropical plant with edible  अनेक  fruit consisting of coalesced berries , and the most economically significant plant  in   the   bromeliaceae   परिवार  .
Pineapples may be cultivated from a crown  कटिंग  of the fruit , possibly flowering in 20–24 months and fruiting in the following six months  .
Pineapple  करता  not ripen significantly post-harvest .
Pineapples  हैं   खपत  fresh  ,   पकाया   ,  juiced , and preserved , and are found in a wide array of cuisines .
In addition to consumption , in the Philippines  the  pineapple 's leaves are used  to   उपज   the   वस्त्र  fiber piña - employed  as  a component of wall paper and furnishings ,  amongst  other uses .
In computer science ,  an  integer is a datum of integral data type , a data type  जिससे   represents  some  परिमित  subset of the mathematical integers .
Integral data  प्रकार  may be of different sizes and may or may not be allowed to contain negative values .
Integers are commonly represented in a  कंप्यूटर  as a group of binary digits .
The size of the grouping varies  so  the set of integer  आकार   उपलब्धियाँ  varies between  अलग  types of computers .
Computer hardware nearly always provides  a  way to represent a processor register or memory  पता  as an integer .
the  Gordon Dam in Tasmania is a large  हाइड्रो   सुविधा  , with an  संस्थापित  capacity  of  .
Hydroelectricity is  the  term referring to electricity generated by hydropower  ;  the production of electrical  शक्ति  through  the   उपयोग  of the  गुरुत्वाकर्षक  force of falling or flowing  जल   .
It is the most widely  प्रयुक्त   रूप  of renewable energy ,  हिसाब   लिये  16  प्रतिशत  of global electricity  पीढी  –  3,427  terawatt-hours of electricity production in 2010 , and is expected to  बढ़ाएँ  about 3.1 % each year for the  अगला   25  years .
hydropower  is produced in 150  देशों  , with the Asia-Pacific  प्रदेश  generating  32  percent of global hydropower in 2010 .
China is the largest hydroelectricity producer , with  721  terawatt-hours of production in 2010 , representing around 17  प्रतिशत  of domestic electricity use .
There are now three hydroelectricity  पौधे   larger  than 10 GW : the Three Gorges Dam in China , Itaipu  बांध   आरपार  the Brazil/Paraguay border ,  और  Guri  बांध  in Venezuela  .
The cost of hydroelectricity is relatively low , making it a  प्रतिस्पर्धी  source  of  renewable  विद्युत  .
the  average cost of electricity  इससे  a  हाइड्रो  plant larger than 10 megawatts  is  3 to 5 U.S. cents  प्रति  kilowatt-hour .
Hydro is also a flexible  सोर्स   of  electricity since plants  can  be ramped up  और  down  बहुत   जल्दी  to adapt to  बदलना  energy  मांगे  .
However , damming interrupts the flow of rivers and can harm local ecosystems  ,   और  building large dams and reservoirs often involves  displacing  people and wildlife .
Once a hydroelectric complex is  constructed  , the  प्रोजेक्ट  produces no direct waste , and has a considerably lower output level of the greenhouse gas carbon  डाइऑक्साइड   (  ) than fossil fuel powered energy plants  .
Wine boy  at  a  यूनानी  symposium
The history of wine  spans  thousands of years and is closely  intertwined   साथ  the history of agriculture  ,  cuisine , civilization and humanity itself  .
Archaeological evidence suggests that the earliest known wine production occurred in what is  अभी  the  देश   of  Georgia around 7000 BCE ,  साथ  other notable sites in Greater Iran dated 4500 BCE and Armenia  4100  BCE , respectively .
The world 's oldest known winery (  दिनाँक  to 3000 BCE  )  was discovered in Areni-1 cave in  a  mountainous area of Armenia  .
URL_http .
Increasingly clear archaeological  प्रमाण   indicates  that domestication of the grapevine took  प्लेस  during the Early Bronze Age  in  the Near East ,  सुमेर  and Egypt from around the third  मिलेनियम  BCE .
Evidence of the earliest wine production in Balkans has  महरूम  uncovered  at  archaeological  साइट  in northern Greece ( Macedonia ) , dated to 4500  bc  .
These same sites also contain remnants of the world 's earliest evidence  of  crushed grapes  .
In Egypt , wine became  a  part of recorded history , playing an important  भूमिका  in ancient ceremonial  जीवन  .
Traces of  जंगली  wine  डेटिंग  from the  दूसरी   और  first millennia BCE  have  also been  मिला  in China .
Moroccan wine Kasher label  1930
The  यहूदी  tradition and use of kosher wine is dating back to biblical times  .
The long history of the use and  उत्पादन  of wine throughout  प्राचीन  Israel is  समर्थित  up by archeological  प्रमाण   .
Within the Jewish diaspora communities  सब   around  the globe ,  the  traditional and religious use of  कोषेर  wine continued to this day .
वाइन   ,  linked in myth to Dionysus / Bacchus , was common in  प्राचीन   यूनानियों  and  रोम  , and many of  आज  's major wine-producing regions  of  Western Europe were established with Phoenician and ,  बाद  , Roman plantations  .
Winemaking technology improved considerably during the time of  the  Roman Empire : many grape  किस्में  and cultivation techniques were known ; the  डिज़ाइन  of the wine press advanced ; and barrels were developed for storing and  शिपिंग   वाइन  .
Rashi ,  a  medieval  फ्रेंच   रब्बी  and  पुकारा  the ``  पिता  '' of all commentaries that followed on the Talmud and the Tanakh , earned  उसके  living as  a  vintner .
Following the decline of Rome  और   इसके   industrial-scale   वाइन  production  लिये  export , the Christian  गिरिजाघर   in  medieval  यूरोपीय   भी  became a firm  समर्थक  of  वाइन  , necessary  लिये  celebration of the Catholic Mass . Whereas wine  थी  forbidden  in   मध्यकालीन   इस्लामी  cultures , its use in  ईसाई  libation was widely  tolerated  .
Geber and other Muslim chemists pioneered the distillation of wine  लिये  Islamic medicinal  और  industrial  उद्देश्य  such  as  perfume .
Wine production gradually increased  ,  with consumption burgeoning  इससे  the 15th century onwards .
Wine production survived  the  devastating Phylloxera louse  of  1887 and eventually  स्प्रेड  to numerous regions throughout the world  .
Districts of West Bengal
The Indian state of West Bengal borders  साथ  Nepal , Bhutan , Bangladesh and the Indian states  of  Bihar , Jharkhand , Odisha  ,  Assam and  सिक्किम   .
The  हिमालय  lies in  the  north  of  the state  और   the  Bay of Bengal is at the south  .
In between them , the  नदी  Ganges flows eastwards and its main distributary ,  the  Hooghly River ,  बहती  south to reach the Bay of Bengal  .
The Siliguri Corridor , which connects North-East India with rest  of  the India  ,  lies in the North  बंगाल  region of  the  state .
Geographically , West  बंगाल  is divided into a variety of regions— Darjeeling Himalayan hill region  ,  Terai and Doors region , North Bengal  मैदान   ,  Rarh region  ,  Western  पठार  and high lands ,  तटीय  plains ,  sunderbans   और  the Ganges Delta .
In 1947 , when India gained  स्वतंत्रता  ,  the  state of  वेस्ट  Bengal  थी  formed  साथ  14 districts , as per partition  योजना  of the then Bengal province  of  British India .
The former  princely   राज्य  Koch Bihar joined as a  ज़िला  in 1950 , and  the   पूर्व  French enclave  chandannagore  joined as part of the Hooghly  ज़िला  in 1954 .
the  States Reorganisation Act of  1956  led to addition of Purulia district  to  the  राज्य   और  to enlargement of West Dinajpur district .
Later , larger  जिले  such as West Dinajpur , 24 Parganas and Midnapore were  bifurcated   .
West Bengal is now  विभाजित  into nineteen districts under three divisions .
Districts are administered by District Magistrates  ,  and divisions are administered by Divisional Commissioners .
Kolkata , the capital of the state , constitutes the Kolkata district  .
Other districts are  further  divided  into  administrative units such as subdivisions and  ब्लॉक  , administered by  sdo  and BDO ,  क्रमशः  .
The  पंचायती  Raj has a three-tier structure in the  राज्य   .
The atomic unit is called a Gram Panchayat , which  is  the  पंचायत  organization for a collection of villages .
the  block-level organizations are called  पंचायत  Samiti ,  और  the district-level organizations are named Zilla  parishad  .
The Caribbean (  or  ; ;  ;  or more commonly Antilles ) is a  प्रदेश  that consists of  the  Caribbean Sea , its islands ( some surrounded  by   the  Caribbean Sea  और  some bordering both  the  Caribbean Sea and  the  North Atlantic Ocean  )  ,  और  the surrounding  coasts  .
The region is  southeast  of the Gulf of Mexico and  the  North American mainland  ,  east  of  Central America , and north of  दक्षिण  America .
Situated  largely  on the Caribbean Plate , the region  comprises  more  than  700 islands , islets , reefs ,  और   cays  .
( See  the  list .  )
These islands generally form island arcs that  delineate  the eastern  और  northern edges  of  the Caribbean  समुद्र  .
The Caribbean  आइलैंड्स  , consisting of the Greater Antilles on the  उत्तर  and the Lesser  antilles  on the south and east ( including the Leeward Antilles ) , are part of  the  somewhat larger West Indies grouping , which  भी  includes the Lucayan Archipelago ( comprising the Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands ) north of the Greater  antilles  and Caribbean Sea .
In  a  wider  भाव  , the  मेनलैंड  countries of  बेलीज़  and Guyana – historically and culturally  भाग   of  the  अंग्रेजों  West  इंडीज   –  may  be   शामिल  .
Geopolitically , the Caribbean islands are usually regarded as a subregion of North America and  हैं  organized  into   30  territories including sovereign  राज्य  , overseas  विभाग   ,   और  dependencies .
From January 3 , 1958 , to May 31 , 1962 ,  वहीँ  was a short-lived country  पुकारा  the Federation of  the  West Indies composed  of  ten English-speaking Caribbean territories  ,  all of which were  तब   uk  dependencies .
the  West Indies cricket team continues  to  represent many of those  राष्ट्र   .
इस   is  a list of  the   221  towns and 13 cities in the U.S. state of  नई  Hampshire .
For each town/city , the table  सूचियाँ  the county to  जिससे  it belongs ,  इसके  date of  incorporation  , its population  according  to  the   2010  census , its form of  सरकारी  , and  इसके  principal villages  .
शहरों  are indicated  in  boldface .
Cities and  कस्बों  are treated  identically  under state  विधि  .
Cities are  बस  towns  जिनकी  form of government was changed by a special  अधिनियम  of the New Hampshire legislature .
However , towns  फिलहाल   हैं  able to change their form of government by simple voter approval of a new municipal charter , with several of the more  populous  towns having already done so .
The main slave routes in medieval Africa .
इस   आलेख  discusses systems , history , and effects of  गुलामी  within Africa .
देखिए  Arab slave trade , Atlantic slave trade , Maafa , and  गुलामी  in contemporary Africa for other  चर्चाएँ  .
`` Slave transport in Africa  ''  .
Europeans usually did not enter  the  interior regions .
गुलामी  in Africa has  existed  throughout the continent for many  सदियां  , and continues in the  वर्तमान  day .
Systems of servitude and slavery were  आम   in  many parts  of  the continent , as they  यहूद  in much of the ancient world .
in  most  अफ़्रीकी  societies where  गुलामी  was prevalent , the enslaved people  यहूद   largely   treated   as  indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves .
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave  व्यापार  began , many of the local slave  प्रणालियों  changed and began supplying captives  लिये  slave markets  बाहर  of Africa .
Slavery in historical Africa was  practiced  in many different forms and some of these do  नहीं  clearly fit  the   परिभाषाएं  of  गुलामी  elsewhere in the world  .
Debt slavery , enslavement of war captives , military slavery ,  और  criminal  गुलामी  were all practiced in various parts  of  Africa  .
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa  to  other regions , slavery was a small  भाग  of the economic life of many societies  in  Africa until  the  introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic )  .
Slave practices were  again  transformed with European colonization of Africa and the  औपचारिक  abolition of slavery in the early 1900s .
Brett Lorenzo Favre  (  born October  10  , 1969 ) is  a  former American football  क्वार्टरबैक  who spent the majority of his career with the Green  खाड़ी   पैकर्स  of the  नेशनल   फ़ुटबॉल  League  (  NFL ) .
He  थी  a  20-year   दिग्गज   of  the NFL , having  निभाई   क्वार्टरबैक  for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991  )  , Green Bay  पैकर्स  ( 1992 – 2007 ) , New  यॉर्क  Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings  (  2009 – 2010 ) .
Favre  is  the  तभी  quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards ,  over  500 touchdowns , over 300 interceptions ,  over  6,000 completions , and over 10,000 pass  कोशिशें  .
Favre started  at  the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi  लिये  four years before  होने  selected in the second  गोलाकार  of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta  (  33rd overall ) .
he  was traded to  ग्रीन  Bay on February 10 , 1992  ,  for the 19th pick  in   the  1992 NFL Draft .
favre  became the Packers ' starting  क्वार्टरबैक  in  the  fourth game of the 1992 season , stepping  in  for injured quarterback Don  majkowski  , and  प्रारंभ  every game  through  the  2007   ऋतु   .
He  थी  traded to the New York Jets and  प्रारंभ  at quarterback for the 2008 season before signing with the Vikings on August  18  , 2009 as their starting quarterback .
He made  an  NFL  रिकार्ड  297 consecutive starts  (  321  सहित  playoffs ) .
he  is the  तभी  player to win the AP Most  मूल्यवान  Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 )  .
He  रै  led teams to eight  प्रभाग  championships ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2002 , 2003 ,  2004  , 2007 , 2009 )  ,  five  nfc  Championship Games ( 1995 ,  1996  , 1997 , 2007 , 2009 ) , and two Super Bowl  दिखावे  ( Super Bowl XXXI , Super Bowl XXXII  )   ,  winning one (  सुपर  Bowl XXXI )  .
He holds many NFL records , including  सबसे  career touchdown passes , most career passing yards , most career  pass  completions , most career pass attempts  ,  most career interceptions thrown  ,  most consecutive starts by  a  player , most consecutive starts by a quarterback , most career  victories  as a starting quarterback  ,   सबसे   बर्खास्त   ,  and most fumbles .
He is also referred  to  by his nickname ``  the  Gunslinger '' .
Salesforce.com Inc. is a global enterprise software company headquartered  in  San  फ्रांसिस्को  , California .
Though best known for its customer  संबंध  management ( CRM  )  product , Salesforce  रै  also expanded  into  the `` social enterprise  एरिना  '' through acquisitions  .
It  is  currently ranked the most innovative company in America by Forbes  पत्रिका  ,  as   खूब  as number 27 in  सौभाग्य   पत्रिका  's 100 Best Companies  to  Work For in 2012 .
As of  अप्रैल  2013 , the company is ranked sixth in providing services  in  marketing and customer service  स्वचालन   .
It is  सूचीबद्ध  on the New York Stock Exchange and is  a  constituent  of  the S &  p  500  अनुक्रमणिका  .
Seahorse is the  शीर्षक  given  to   54  species  of   समुद्री   मछली  in the genus Hippocampus .
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient Greek hippos  अर्थ  `` horse  ''  and kampos meaning `` sea monster '' .
Earth is the third planet  इससे  the Sun , and the densest and  fifth-largest  of  the   आठ  planets in  the  Solar System  .
It  is   भी  the largest of the Solar System 's four terrestrial planets .
It  is   sometimes  referred to as the  संसार  or the Blue  ग्रह  .
Earth formed approximately 4.54 billion  सालो  ago ,  और  life appeared on its surface within its first billion  सालो  .
Earth 's biosphere then significantly altered  the  atmospheric and  अन्य   मौलिक  physical  शर्तें   ,   जिससे  enabled the proliferation  of  organisms as well as the formation of the ozone  परत   ,  which together with Earth 's magnetic field blocked harmful solar radiation , and permitted formerly ocean-confined life to  मूव  safely to land .
the  physical properties of the Earth , as well as its  geological  history and orbit , have allowed life to  अड़  .
estimates  on  कैसा  much longer the  ग्रह  will be able to continue to support  जीवन   दायरा   इससे  , to  as  long as  .
Earth 's lithosphere is  विभाजित  into several rigid  खण्ड  , or tectonic plates , that migrate across the surface over periods of many  लाखो  of years .
About  71  % of the surface is  covered  by salt water oceans , with  the  remainder  consisting   of   महाद्वीपों  and islands which  साथ  have  अनेक  lakes  और   अन्य  sources of water  कि  contribute to  the   जलमंडल   .
Earth  's   डंडे  are mostly covered with ice that is the solid ice of  the   अंटार्कटिक  ice  चादर  and  the  sea ice that is  the   ध्रुवीय  ice packs .
The planet 's  आंतरिक  remains active , with a solid iron  भीतरी   कोर  , a liquid outer core that generates the magnetic field , and a  मोटा  layer of relatively solid mantle .
Earth gravitationally interacts with other objects in  स्पेस  , especially  the  Sun and the Moon .
During one orbit around the  सूर्य   ,  the Earth  घुमाता  about its own axis 366.26 times  ,  creating 365.26 solar days , or one sidereal year .
The Earth 's axis of rotation is tilted  23.4°  away from the perpendicular of its orbital  प्लेन  , producing  मौसमी  variations  on  the planet 's surface with a period of one tropical year ( 365.24  सौर  days )  .
The Moon is Earth  's   तभी  natural satellite .
It began orbiting the Earth about .
the   चंद्रमा   's  gravitational interaction with Earth  stimulates  ocean  tides   ,  stabilizes the axial tilt  ,  and gradually slows the planet 's rotation  .
The  ग्रह  is home to millions of species  of  life , including humans .
Both the mineral resources of the planet and the products  of  the biosphere contribute resources that are used to support a global human  जनसांख्यिकी   .
These inhabitants are grouped into about 200 independent  sovereign  states ,  जिससे  interact  through   कूटनीति  , travel , trade  ,   और  military action .
इंसान  cultures have  विकसित  many views of the planet , including its  personification   as  a  ग्रहीय  deity , its shape  as  flat , its position as  the  center of the universe , and  in  the modern Gaia Principle , as a  सिंगल  , self-regulating organism in its  अपना  right .
The  जादूगर  from the Waite-Smith tarot , who is depicted using  the  same tools that modern Wiccans  उपयोग  .
In the neopagan religion of Wicca , a range of magical tools are used in ritual practice .
प्रत्येक  of these tools has different  उपयोग   और  associations ,  और  are  प्रयुक्त  primarily to direct magical  energies  .
They are used at  an  altar  ,  inside a magic circle .
In traditional  gardnerian  Wicca  ,  the  टूल्स   हैं   प्रायः   विभाजित  into  निजी  tools , which  हैं   लिये  use by , and owned by , an  व्यक्तिगत   wiccan  , and  आउटटेक  tools ,  प्रयुक्त  collectively by the coven .
This practice may derive partly from  masonic  traditions ( such as the  उपयोग  of the Square and  compasses  )  ,  from which Wicca draws some material , and partly  इससे  the rituals of the Hermetic Order of the Golden  भोर  .
The latter made much use  of  material from medieval  grimoires  such as the  कुंजी  of Solomon , which  रै  many illustrations of magical tools and  निर्देश  for their preparation .
Typical eukaryotic  कोशिका  .
Cellular respiration  is  the set of  the  metabolic reactions and processes  कि  take place in the  कोशिकाएं   of  organisms to convert biochemical  उर्जा  from  nutrients  into adenosine triphosphate  (   एटीपी  ) , and then release waste products .
The reactions involved in  श्वसन   हैं  catabolic reactions , which  ब्रेक  large molecules into smaller ones  ,  releasing energy in  the  process  as  weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger  bonds  in the products .
Respiration is one  of  the key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity .
Cellular respiration  is  considered an exothermic redox reaction  .
The  overall  reaction is  टूटा  into many smaller ones  जब  it  occurs  in the body , most of which are redox reactions themselves .
Although technically , cellular respiration is  a  combustion  प्रतिक्रिया  , it  clearly  does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell .
This  अंतर  is because it occurs in many  पृथक  steps  .
While the  overall  reaction is a  दहन  reaction , no  सिंगल  reaction that comprises  it  is a combustion reaction .
Nutrients that are commonly  प्रयुक्त  by  एनिमल  and  संयंत्र  cells  in  respiration include sugar , amino acids and fatty acids  ,  and a common oxidizing agent (  इलेक्ट्रॉन  acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ) .
the   उर्जा  stored in ATP ( its  तीसरा  phosphate group  is   weakly  bonded to  the  rest  of  the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form , thereby transferring energy for  उपयोग  by the cell ) can  तब  be used  to  drive  प्रक्रियाओं  requiring energy , including biosynthesis , locomotion  or  transportation of molecules across cell membranes  .
A stored-pressure fire  extinguisher  made by Amerex
A  अंग्रेजों  fire extinguisher  साथ  ID sign , call point and fire action sign
A fire extinguisher , flame extinguisher , or  बस   an   extinguisher   ,  is an  क्रियाशील   आग  protection device used  to  extinguish or control small fires ,  प्रायः  in emergency situations .
it  is not intended for use on an out-of-control fire , such as one which has  पहुँचे  the ceiling , endangers the user ( i.e. , no  एस्केप   रूट  , smoke ,  विस्फोट   जोखिम  , etc . ) , or otherwise requires the  विशेषज्ञता  of a fire department .
Typically , a  आग  extinguisher consists of a hand-held  बेलनाकार  pressure  पोत   containing  an agent which can be  discharged  to extinguish a  आग  .
in  the United  राज्य  , fire extinguishers , in all  इमारतें  other than houses , are generally required to be serviced and inspected by a  आग   सुरक्षा  service company at least annually .
Some jurisdictions require more frequent service  लिये   आग  extinguishers .
The  servicer  places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the type of service performed ( annual inspection  ,  recharge , new fire extinguisher  )  and when  .
There are two  प्रमुख   प्रकार  of fire extinguishers : stored  दबाव  and cartridge-operated  .
In  भंडारित  pressure units , the expellant  is  stored in  the  same  कक्ष   as   the  firefighting agent itself .
depending  on the agent used , different propellants are  प्रयुक्त  .
With dry  रासायनिक  extinguishers , nitrogen  is  typically used ; water and  झाग  extinguishers typically use air .
Stored pressure fire  extinguishers   हैं  the most  आम   प्रकार  .
cartridge-operated   extinguishers   contain  the expellant gas in a separate cartridge that is  punctured  prior  to  discharge , exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent .
This type  is  not as  आम  , used primarily in  क्षेत्रों  such as industrial facilities  ,  where  वे  receive higher-than-average  उपयोग  .
वे  have the advantage of  सरल  and prompt recharge , allowing an operator to  निर्वहन  the extinguisher  ,   रिचार्ज  it ,  और  return to the fire in a reasonable amount of time .
Unlike stored pressure types  ,  these extinguishers use compressed  कार्बन  dioxide instead of  नाइट्रोजन  , although nitrogen cartridges are used on low temperature  (  -60 rated ) models  .
Cartridge operated extinguishers  हैं   उपलब्धियाँ   in  dry chemical and dry powder types in the U.S. and  in  water  ,  wetting agent  ,  foam , dry chemical ( classes ABC and B.C . )  ,  and dry  चूर्ण  ( class D  )  types in the  बाकी  of the world .
Fire extinguishers are further divided into  हैंडहेल्ड   और   cart-mounted  , also called wheeled extinguishers  .
Handheld extinguishers  तौल  from  0.5  to 14  गामा  ( 1 to 30 pounds  )  , and are hence , easily portable by hand .
Cart-mounted units typically weigh  23+   गामा  (  50+   पाउंड  )  .
These wheeled  मॉडल  are most commonly found at construction sites , airport runways , heliports  ,  as well as docks and marinas .
Native Americans in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  are the indigenous  peoples  in North  अमेरिका   भीतर  the boundaries of the present-day continental  संयुक्त  States  ,  Alaska ,  और  the island state of  हवाई  .
They are composed  of  numerous , distinct Native American  जनजातियों  and ethnic groups , many of  जिससे  survive as intact  राजनैतिक  communities  .
the   शर्तें  used to refer to Native Americans have been controversial .
According  to  a 1995  u.S.   जनसांख्यिकी   census_bureau  Bureau Census_Bureau set of home interviews , most of  the  respondents  साथ  an expressed preference  refer  to themselves  as  American Indians (  or  simply Indians ) , and this term has been adopted by major newspapers and  कुछ  academic groups  ;  however , this term does not typically include Native Hawaiians or certain Alaskan Natives , such as  aleut  , Yup'ik , or  इनुइट  peoples .
Since the end of the 15th century  ,  the migration of Europeans to  the  Americas , and  उनके  importation of Africans as slaves , has led to centuries of conflict and adjustment between Old  और  New World  समाजों  .
europeans  created most of the early written historical record about Native Americans  बाद  the colonists ' immigration  to  the Americas .
अनेक  Native Americans lived as  hunter-gatherer   समाजों  and told  उनके  histories by oral  परंपराओं  .
In many groups , women  carried   आउट  sophisticated  cultivation  of  numerous  varieties of staple crops : maize  ,  beans and squash .
The  स्वदेशी   संस्कृतियों  were quite different from those of the agrarian ,  proto-industrial  , mostly Christian immigrants  इससे   पश्चिमी  Eurasia  .
Many Native cultures were  matrilineal   ;  the people occupied  lands   लिये  use of the entire community , for hunting or  कृषि  .
Europeans at that  समय  had patriarchal cultures and had developed concepts of individual property rights with respect to land  कि  were extremely  अलग   .
The differences in  संस्कृतियों  between the established Native  अमेरिकी  and immigrant Europeans , as  खूब   as  shifting alliances  among  different nations of each culture  through  the centuries  ,  caused extensive  राजनैतिक  tension , ethnic violence and social  disruption  .
The Native Americans suffered high fatalities from the  सम्पर्क   साथ  infectious Eurasian diseases  ,  to  जिससे   वे   था  no acquired  प्रतिरक्षण  .
Epidemics  बाद   यूरोपीय  contact caused  the   महानतम  loss  of  life for  स्वदेशी  populations  .
Estimates of the  pre-columbian  population of  कया  today constitutes the U.S. vary significantly , ranging from 1 million to 18 million .
After the colonies revolted against Great Britain and established the United  राज्य   of  America , President George Washington and Henry Knox conceived  of  the idea  of  `` civilizing '' Native Americans  in  preparation for assimilation as  u.S.   नागरिकों  .
Assimilation  (  whether voluntary as with  the  Choctaw , or  मजबूर  )  became  a  सतत   नीति  through  अमरीकी  administrations .
During the 19th century , the ideology of manifest destiny became integral to the American  राष्ट्रवादी  movement .
Expansion of European-American populations to the west after the American Revolution  resulted  in increasing pressure on Native  अमरीकी  lands , warfare  between  the  समूह   ,  and rising tensions .
in   1830  , the U.S. Congress passed  the  Indian Removal Act , authorizing the government  to   relocate  Native  अमेरिकी  from their homelands within established states  to  lands west of the Mississippi River , accommodating European-American expansion .
the  first European Americans  to  encounter the  पश्चिमी  interior tribes  यहूद  generally fur traders and trappers  .
There were  भी   जेसुइट   प्रचारकों  active in the Northern Tier .
As  संयुक्त  States expansion  पहुँचे  into the American West , settler and miner migrants came  into   increasing  conflict with the Great Basin , Great  मैदान  , and other  पश्चिमी  tribes .
These were complex nomadic cultures based on horse culture  और  seasonal bison hunting .
They carried out strong  प्रतिरोध  to  संयुक्त   राज्य  incursions  in  the decades  बाद  the American Civil  युद्ध  , in a series of Indian Wars , which  यहूद   बारंबार  up until the  1890s  , but continued  into  the 20th century .
the  transcontinental railroad brought more non-Natives into tribal  जमीन  in the west .
Over time , the U.S. forced a series  of  treaties  और  land cessions by  the  tribes , and established reservations for them in many western states .
U.S. agents encouraged  देशी  Americans to adopt European-style farming and similar pursuits ,  लकिन  European-American agricultural technology of the time was  अपर्याप्त  for often dry reservation  lands  .
In 1924 ,  देशी  Americans who were  नहीं   already  U.S.  नागरिकों   यहूद   granted  citizenship by Congress .
समकालीन   देशी  Americans have  a  unique relationship with the United States because they may be members of nations , tribes  ,  or bands  साथ  sovereignty and treaty  अधिकारों  .
Central America ( ) is the central geographic region of the Americas .
It is the  southernmost   ,  isthmian portion  of  the  उत्तर  American continent , which connects  साथ  South  अमेरिका  on the  southeast  .
When considered part of the  एकीकृत  continental model  ,  it is considered  a  subcontinent .
Central America consists of seven  देशों  : Belize , Costa Rica , El Salvador , Guatemala , Honduras  ,  Nicaragua ,  और  Panama .
Central America is part of  the   mesoamerican  biodiversity hotspot , which extends from  उत्तरी  Guatemala through central Panama  .
It is bordered by  मैक्सिको  to the  उत्तर  , the  caribbean  Sea to the east , the North Pacific Ocean to the west , and Colombia to  the   south-east  .
सेंट्रल  America  is  an area of , or almost  0.1   %  of  the  Earth  's   सतह  .
As of  2009  , its population was estimated at 41,739,000 .
It  रै   a  density of 77 people per square kilometer  .
Scrubs is an American medical comedy-drama television series created  by  Bill Lawrence that aired from October 2 , 2001  to  March 17 , 2010 on NBC and later ABC .
the  series follows the  जीवनदान  of employees at the fictional Sacred Heart  शिक्षण   हॉस्पिटल  .
The title is  a  play on  सर्जिकल  scrubs and a term for a low-ranking person  क्युकी  at the beginning  of  the series , most of the  प्रमुख   वर्ण  were  चिकित्सा  interns .
The  श्रेणी   सुविधाएँ  fast-paced screenplay  ,  slapstick  ,  and surreal vignettes  प्रस्तुत   ज़्यादातर  as  the  daydreams of the central character ,  dr.  John ``  j.d  . ''
Dorian , who  is   निभाई   by  Zach Braff  .
Actors starring alongside Braff in  the  first eight seasons included Sarah  chalke  , Donald Faison , Neil Flynn  ,  Ken Jenkins , John C. McGinley  और  Judy Reyes .
the  series has also featured multiple guest appearances by film actors , such as Brendan Fraser , Heather Graham , and  कोलिन   farrell   .
In the ninth season  ,  many new cast members were  introduced  and the show setting moved from a  हॉस्पिटल  to a  चिकित्सा   स्कूल  .
Out of the original cast , only Braff , Faison and McGinley became regular cast members , while the  अन्य  with the exception of Reyes ,  बना  guest appearances .
Braff appeared in six episodes of the ninth  ऋतु  before  दूँ   .
Kerry Bishé ,  eliza  Coupe , Dave Franco and Michael Mosley  became  series regulars with Bishé becoming  the  show  's  new narrator .
Scrubs premiered on October 2 , 2001 on NBC .
The series received a  पीबॉडी  Award in 2006 .
During the seventh  ऋतु  , NBC announced  कि  it  होता   नहीं  renew the  दिखाएँ  .
Shortly after the seventh season finale , ABC  घोषित  it had  उठाई  up the eighth season  of   the   श्रेणी   ,  which began January 6 ,  2009  .
The ninth season premiered on December 1 , 2009 .
On May  14   ,  2010 , ABC announced it had officially canceled  scrubs  .
An 1817 Boulton & Watt beam blowing engine ,  प्रयुक्त  in Netherton at the ironworks of  m  W Grazebrook .
Re-erected on the A38 (  m  ) in Birmingham , UK
A steam engine  is  a heat engine that performs mechanical work using steam as its working fluid .
Using boiling water to produce mechanical motion  goes   वापस  about 2,000 years ,  लकिन  early  डिवाइस  were not practical  .
Since the late 1700s steam engines  have  become  a  major source of mechanical power .
The first applications were removing water from mines .
In  1781  James Watt patented a steam engine that produced continuous  rotative   गति  .
These  10  hp engines enabled a wide range of manufacturing machinery to be powered .
The engines could be sited  anywhere  that water and coal or  लकडी  fuel could be obtained  .
By 1883 ,  इंजन  that could provide  10,000  hp had become feasible .
Steam engines could also  be  applied to vehicles  ऐसे  as  कर्षण  engines  और  the railway locomotives  जिससे   हैं  commonly just called steam engines outside  अमेरिका  .
The stationary steam  इंजन  was  a  key component of the Industrial Revolution  ,  allowing factories to locate  जहाँ  water  शक्ति  was unavailable .
आज  steam turbines generate about 90  %  of the electric  शक्ति   in  the United States using  a  variety of heat sources .
Steam engines  हैं  external combustion  इंजन  , where the working fluid is separate  इससे  the combustion products .
Non-combustion heat  स्त्रोत  such as solar  शक्ति  , nuclear power  or  geothermal energy may  be  used .
the  ideal thermodynamic  साईकिल  used to analyze this process is called the Rankine cycle .
In the cycle , water is heated into steam in a boiler until  it  reaches a high pressure .
When expanded through pistons or  turbines  , mechanical work is  किया  .
the  reduced-pressure  भाप   is  then condensed  और  pumped back into  the  boiler .
In general usage ,  the  term steam  इंजन  can refer to either  the  integrated steam plants ( including boilers etc .  )  such as railway steam locomotives and portable engines , or may refer to  the  piston or turbine machinery alone , as in the beam engine and stationary steam engine .
Specialized devices such as  भाप  hammers and  भाप  pile drivers are dependent  on  steam supplied from  a  separate boiler .
A mill engine from Stott Park Bobbin Mill  ,   cumbria  , England
a  steam locomotive in  जर्मनी  .This class of engine was built in 1942 – 1950 and operated commercially until 1988 .
``  मूव  Bitch ''  (   संपादित  version titled `` Move B***h '' or simply `` Move '' )  is   the   तीसरा  official  सिंगल  from rapper Ludacris ' album Word of Mouf .
The single  सुविधाएँ   mystikal  and I-20  .
The single  पहुँचे  # 10  on  the Billboard Hot  100  making it Ludacris 's  पहला  top ten hit on the  चार्ट  ,  it  also reached # 3  on   hot  Rap Tracks and # 3 on Hot  r  & B/Hip-Hop Singles &  ट्रैक्स   .
प्यूर्टो  Rican  reggaeton  duo Maicol  &   मैनुएल  sampled the  सोंग  on `` Hoy  me  Levanté '' on their 2002 release Yakaleo  .
The  सोंग  is also featured  in  episode 2  ,  Series One of  अंग्रेजों  teen  comedy/drama  Skins .
The song  थी  also used by  संसार  Wrestling  entertainment   superstar  Montel Vontavious  पोर्टर  during  उसके  short stint  in  Ring of Honor  .
It was also used for  अप्रैल   शिकारी  in  विभिन्न  Independent  circuits  .
It was featured in  the  movie ATL starring T.I . , and ' Hancock , ' although in the  latter   ,  the clean version was used .
A snippet of the song is played during traffic reports on many radio  स्टेशन   ,  usually carrying  an  urban/hip-hop format .
Retired NBA star and now ESPN analyst Jalen Rose is featured in the  म्यूज़िक   वीडियो  .
The  सोंग  has been  covered  by  चट्टान  band  प्रारंभ  Trouble , on their album Every Solution Has Its Problem .
It was featured  on  British sitcom The Inbetweeners when the characters Jay  और  Neil took  होगा  on a 'pussy patrol  '  in Jay 's red Nissan Micra .
it   थी  sampled by Girl Talk on the first track of his album All Day ,  ``   oh  No '' .
Elizabeth II  (  Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16  sovereign  states  ,  known as the Commonwealth realms , and their territories and dependencies , and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
She  is  Supreme Governor of the  गिरिजाघर  of England  और   ,   in  some of her realms , carries the title of Defender of the Faith as part of her full  शीर्षक  .
On her accession on 6 February 1952 , Elizabeth became Head of  the  Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven  स्वतंत्र  Commonwealth countries : the United Kingdom  ,  Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , Pakistan and Ceylon .
From 1956 to 1992  ,  the number of her  realms  varied as territories gained independence and some  realms  became republics .
at  present , in addition to the first four aforementioned countries  ,   एलिज़ाबेथ  is Queen of Jamaica ,  बारबाडोस   ,  the  बहामा  ,  हरा  ,  पापुआ   नई  Guinea ,  the  Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and  the  Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda  और  Saint Kitts and Nevis  .
Her reign of years is currently the second longest for a British monarch ; only Queen Victoria has  reigned  longer at  over  63 years .
Elizabeth was born in London and educated privately  at   घर  .
उसके  father acceded to the throne as  जार्ज  VI in 1936 on the abdication  of   उसके  brother Edward VIII ,  इससे   जिससे  time  वो   थी  the heir  presumptive  .
She began  to  undertake public duties during  the  Second World War ,  in  which she served in  the  Auxiliary Territorial Service .
In 1947 , she married Prince Philip ,  ड्यूक  of  एडिनबर्ग  , with  जिसको  she has  चार  children :  चार्ल्स  , Anne  ,  Andrew  ,  and Edward .
Her  राजतिलक  service took  प्लेस  in  1953  and was the  पहला  to be televised .
the  Queen 's many historic visits and meetings include a state visit to the Republic of Ireland  और   reciprocal  visits to and from the Pope .
The Queen  रै  seen major  संवैधानिक  changes in her realms , such as  devolution   in  the United Kingdom and the patriation of the  कनाडाई   संविधान   .
Times of personal significance have included the  births  and marriages of  उसके  children , the  births  of her grandchildren ,  the  investiture of the  प्रिंस  of Wales  ,  and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver , Golden ,  और  Diamond Jubilees in  1977   ,  2002 , and  2012  , respectively .
Major events in the Queen 's reign have  शामिल   the   परेशानियों  in Northern Ireland , the Falklands War ,  युद्धों  with Iraq and the War in  अफगानिस्तान   .
There  have  been times of personal sorrow for  उसके  which include  the  death of her father at 56 ,  the  assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle , Lord Mountbatten , the breakdown of her children 's marriages in 1992  (  a year deemed her annus horribilis ) , the death in 1997 of her former  daughter-in-law  , Diana , Princess of Wales ,  और  the deaths of her mother and  सिस्टर   in  2002 .
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the  royal  family and republican sentiments , but support for the  साम्राज्य  and her personal popularity remain high .
christianity  is the largest religion  सूचीबद्ध  by Australians in the national census .
In the 2011  जनसांख्यिकी  , 61.1 % of Australians were listed as Christian .
ऑस्ट्रेलिया  has no official state religion and the Australian Constitution protects freedom of religion .
The  उपस्थिति  of  christianity  in Australia  began  with the arrival of the First Fleet of British convicts in 1788 .
The religion grew to  खाता  for 96.1 % of the national population  at  the time of  the  Federation  of  Australia  in  1901 .
the  Anglican Church  of  Australia  (  formerly known  as  the Church of England  in  Australia )  remained   the  largest denomination until 1986  ,  when it was surpassed by the  रोमन  Catholic Church  in  Australia .
Post-war multiculturalism and a decline in religious observance among some sections  of   the  population have diversified  the   जनसांख्यिकी  of religion in Australia .
Of  the  roughly 61 %  identifying  as Christian in 2011 , the largest denominations were either Roman  कैथोलिक   (  25 % )  or  Anglican ( 17  %   )  , with the third largest denomination being the 5 % affiliated with  the  Uniting Church in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
Post-war immigration has grown  the  numbers belonging to churches like the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   और  there are large and growing Pentecostal groups , such as Sydney 's Hillsong Church .
the  festivals of Easter  और  Christmas are public holidays in Australia .
around  a quarter of students attend church schools and  ईसाई  organisations are leading non-government providers of  स्वास्थ्य   और  welfare services  through  organisations like Catholic Health Australia , Anglicare , UnitingCare  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , the Salvation Army and St  विंसेंट   de   पॉल   समाज  .
Historically significant  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  Christians have  शामिल  Rev  dr  John Dunmore Lang  ,  Saint Mary MacKillop , Catherine  हेलेन  Spence , Pastor  दाउद   unaipon  , the Reverend John Flynn and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls .
High profile contemporary Australian Christians include : Tim Costello Baptist minister  और  current CEO of World Vision Australia , Frank Brennan  ,  Jesuit human rights lawyer ,  कार्डिनल  George Pell , Catholic Archbishop  of  Sydney ,  फिलिप  Aspinall the current Anglican  primate   और   archbishop  of Brisbane  ,  Kevin Rudd  ,  former Labor Prime  मंत्री  , and Tony  एबॉट   ,   नेता   लिये  the Federal Opposition Liberal Party .
चार्टर  creating Collegiate School , which became Yale  कॉलेज  ,  अक्तूबर  9 , 1701
Yale University is a  निजी  Ivy League research university located in  नई  Haven , Connecticut .
संस्थापित  in 1701 in  the  Colony of  कनेक्टिकट  ,  the  university  is   the  third-oldest institution of higher education in the United  राज्य  .
Originally chartered as the  ``  Collegiate School '' , the institution traces its roots to 17th-century clergymen who  sought  to establish a college  to  train clergy and  राजनैतिक  leaders for the  उपनिवेश  .
In 1718  ,  the College was  renamed  `` Yale College  ''  to  सम्मान  a  तोहफा  from  elihu  Yale , a governor of the British East India Company .
in  1861 ,  the   ग्रैजुएट   स्कूल  of  कला   और  Sciences became the  पहला  U.S. institution to award the PhD . Yale became  a  founding member  of   the  Association of  अमरीकी  Universities in 1900  .
Yale College was transformed , beginning in the  1930s  , through the  स्थापना   of  residential  कॉलेजों  : 12 now  मौजूद  and two more are planned .
Yale employs  over  1,100 faculty to teach and advise about 5,300 undergraduate and  6,100   ग्रैजुएट   और   पेशेवर  students .
Almost all tenured  professors  teach undergraduate courses  ,  more  than  2,000 of which  हैं  offered annually .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों   's   एसेट  include an endowment valued at $ 19.4 billion  ,  the second-largest  of   कोई  academic institution in the  संसार  .
Yale  's  system of more  than  two  दर्जन  libraries holds  12.5  million volumes  .
49 Nobel Laureates have been  संबद्ध  with the University as  विद्यार्थी   ,  faculty  ,  and  स्टाफ  .
Yale  रै   उत्पादित  many notable alumni , including five U.S. Presidents , 19 U.S.  परम्  Court Justices , and several foreign heads of state .
At the  ग्रैजुएट   स्तर  , Yale Law School , Yale  स्कूल  of Art , and Yale School of Drama are consistently  क्रमित  the  शीर्ष  programs in their field  .
Yale Law  स्कूल   is   the   सबसे   चयनात्मक  law school in the  संयुक्त  States .
Yale students compete intercollegiately as the Yale Bulldogs in the NCAA Division I Ivy League  .
The  oldest  intercollegiate athletic event in the United States is the Yale-Harvard  regatta  .
Artemisia tridentata ( `` big sagebrush ''  or  ``  sagebrush   ''  ) is  an  aromatic shrub from the family Asteraceae ,  जिससे   grows   in  arid and semi-arid conditions ,  throughout  a range of cold desert , steppe , and mountain habitats in the Intermountain  वेस्ट  of North America .
The vernacular name  ``   sagebrush  '' is also used for  अनेक  related  सदस्यों  of  the  genus Artemisia , such as California  sagebrush  ( Artemisia californica ) .
Big Sagebrush  और  other  artemisia  species are the dominant plants across  विशाल  portions of the Great Basin , covering some 422,000 square miles in  11  western U.S.  &  Canadian states .
It is  the  state flower  of  Nevada  .
Sagebrush provides food and habitat for a variety of species , such as  ऋषि   grouse  , pronghorn  antelope  ,  धूसर  vireo , pygmy rabbit , and mule deer .
Big sagebrush was  प्रयुक्त  as  an   हर्बल  medicine by  देशी  Americans throughout the  intermountain  West of North America—especially for preventing infection  in  wounds , stopping internal  bleeding  , and treating  headaches   और  colds .
Chemically ,  the  active medicinal constituents include  camphor  , terpenoids , and  tannins  .
Several major threats  मौजूद  to sage  ब्रश   ecosystems  ,  सहित   इंसान  settlements  ,  conversion to agricultural land , livestock grazing ,  हृदयरोग  plant species  ,   wildfires  ,  और  climate change  .
Yahoo ! Mail  is  a  फ़्री  email service  offered   by  the American search engine  कम्पनी  Yahoo !
It  थी  launched in 1997 , and  ,  according  to  comScore , Yahoo ! Mail is the third-largest web-based email service with 281  लाख   उपयोक्ता  as of  दिसम्बर  2012 .
Currently , Yahoo ! offers three versions  of  Yahoo  !   मेल  .
The traditional ``  याहू  ! Mail  क्लासिक   ''  continues the availability of the original interface introduced in  1997  .
a  version introduced in 2005 included a new Ajax  इंटरफ़ेस   ,  drag-and-drop features , improved search  कार्यक्षमता  , keyboard shortcuts , address auto-complete ,  टैब्स   ,  and  अन्य  updated  सुविधाएँ  .
in  October 2010 , Yahoo ! released  a  beta version of Yahoo !  मेल  , which included improvements to the design , performance  ,  search functionality , and Facebook integration .
In May 2011 ,  बीटा  testing for the new  संस्करण  stopped  ,  and it became the default  इंटरफ़ेस  for Yahoo  !   मेल  .
In early 2008 ,  याहू  ! began offering unlimited  मेल  storage to  इसके  users in response  to   heated  competition in  the  free web-mail market segment .
On June 27 , 2009  ,  Yahoo ! Messenger  थी  integrated  साथ  Yahoo  !  Mail  .
Tacoma ( , ) is a mid-sized urban port  नगर  and the  काउंटी  seat of Pierce County  ,   वॉशिंगटन  , United States .
the  city is on  वॉशिंगटन   's   puget  Sound , southwest  of  Seattle , northeast of the state capital , Olympia , and northwest of Mount Rainier  नेशनल  Park .
The population  थी   198,397   ,   according  to the 2010 census .
Tacoma is the second-largest  नगर  in the Puget  ध्वनि  area and the third largest in the state .
टकोमा  also serves as  the  center of business activity  लिये  the South  ध्वनि  region , which has  a  population of around 1 million people .
Tacoma adopted its name after the nearby Mount Rainier , originally called Mount Tahoma .
It is known as the  ``  City of  नियति  '' because the area was chosen to be the western terminus of the  उत्तरी  Pacific Railroad in the  लेट  19th century  .
The decision of the railroad  थी   बहकावे  by Tacoma 's neighboring deep-water harbor ,  शुरुआत  Bay .
By connecting the  खाड़ी  with the railroad Tacoma 's motto  became  `` When rails meet sails  .  ''
Today Commencement  खाड़ी   serves  the Port of Tacoma  ,  a center of international trade on the Pacific Coast  और  Washington state 's largest port .
Like most central cities , Tacoma suffered a prolonged decline in the mid-20th century as a result  of  suburbanization and divestment .
Since the 1990s  ,  developments in the  शहर  core include the University  of  Washington Tacoma ;  टकोमा  Link , the first modern electric light rail service in  the  state ; the state 's highest  घनत्व   of  art  और  history museums ; and a restored urban waterfront , the Thea Foss  जलमार्ग  .
साथ  a  long  history of blue-collar labor politics — from  the   रेलरोड  workers  of   the  19th century , to the  longshoremen  of  the  20th century , to the Labor Ready workers of today  —  Tacoma has long been  ज्ञात   लिये  its rough ,  किरकिरी  image  .
A song about Tacoma , `` Thrice All American '' , by American singer-songwriter and  पूर्व  resident Neko Case , describes it as `` a dusty old  गहना   in  the  दक्षिण  Puget Sound /  जहाँ   the  factories churn  /  and the timber  's  all cut down  ''  .
tacoma-pierce   काउंटी  has been named one of the most  livable  areas  in  the country  .
Tacoma was also recently  सूचीबद्ध  as the 19th  सबसे  walkable city in the country .
In contrast ,  the  city is also ranked as the most  stressed-out  city in the country  in  a 2004 survey  .
In  2006  , women 's magazine Self named Tacoma the `` Most Sexually Healthy City  ''  in the  संयुक्त  States .
In 2012  ,  The Advocate gave Tacoma the title of `` Gayest City  in  America '' , in part because of the large diversity of  पब्लिक   कार्यालयों  held ,  और   वॉशिंगटन  State passing  a  bill in 2012 allowing LGBT  युगल  to  निकाह   .
टकोमा  is famous for the 1940 collapse  of   the   टकोमा  Narrows Bridge .
Chula  विस्टा  ( ; ) is the second largest city in the San Diego  महानगर  area ,  the  seventh largest city in Southern California ,  the   fourteenth  largest  नगर  in  the   राज्य  of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ,   और   the  77th-largest city in  the  United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 243,916 as of the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
स्तिथ   बस   इससे   शहर  San Diego and from  the  Mexican border in the South Bay region of the metropolitan area , the  नगर  is  at  the center  of   एक  of the richest economic  और   culturally  diverse zones in  the  United States .
Chula Vista is  so  named because of its  दर्शनीय  location between  the  San  डिएगो  Bay and coastal mountain foothills  .
Founded  in  the early 19th century , fast population growth has  recently  been observed  in   the   नगर  .
as  the second largest city in San Diego County , Chula Vista has  जल्दी  become a  गंतव्य  popular to many  पर्यटकों  .
Located in the city is  एक  of  अमेरिका  's few  year-round  United States Olympic Training centers and popular  पर्यटक  destinations  शामिल  Cricket Wireless Amphitheater , the Chula  विस्टा   मरीना  , and the Chula Vista Nature Center .
metes   और  bounds  is  a  प्रणाली  or method  of  describing land , real  प्रॉपर्टी  ( in  कंट्रास्ट   to  personal property ) or real estate .
The system  रै   महरूम  used in  इंग्लैण्ड  for many centuries ,  और  is still  प्रयुक्त  there in the  परिभाषा   of  general boundaries .
By custom ,  it  was applied in  the  original  तेरह  Colonies  कि  became the United  राज्य  ,  और  in  अनेक   अन्य  land jurisdictions based on  अंग्रेज़ी  common law .
typically  the system uses physical features of  the  local geography  ,  along with directions  और  distances , to define and describe the boundaries  of   a  parcel  of  land .
the   सीमाएँ   हैं  described in a running  गद्य   स्टाइल  , working around the parcel  in  sequence , from  a  point  of  beginning , returning back to the same point ; compare with the oral ritual of beating the  bounds  .
it  may include  सन्दर्भ   to  other  adjoining  parcels ( and their owners ) , and  it  , in turn , could also be referred  to  in later  सर्वेक्षण  .
at  the  समय  the description  is   compiled  , it may have been marked on the  मैदान  with permanent monuments placed where there were no suitable natural monuments .
The term  ``  metes  ''  refers to a boundary  पारिभाषित  by the measurement  of  each  सीधा  run  ,  specified  by  a  अलहदा  between the  टर्मिनल  points , and an  अभिविन्यास  or direction  .
A direction may be  a  simple  कम्पास   bearing  , or  a  precise orientation determined by  सटीक  survey  विधि   .
The  पद  `` bounds '' refers to a more general boundary description , such as along a certain watercourse  ,  a stone wall , an adjoining public road way , or an existing building .
The system is often used to define larger pieces of property ( e.g  .  farms  )   ,  and political subdivisions ( e.g .  कस्बा  boundaries ) where precise definition is  नहीं  required or would be far too expensive ,  or  previously designated boundaries can be incorporated into the description .
सर  Isaac Newton ( 25 December 164220 March 1727 ) was an English physicist and  गणितज्ञ  who is widely  regarded  as one of  the  most influential  वैज्ञानिकों   of  all time and  as  a key  फिगर   in  the scientific revolution .
His book  philosophiæ   naturalis  Principia Mathematica  (  `` Mathematical Principles of  प्राकृतिक  Philosophy  ''   )  , first  प्रकाशित  in 1687 , laid the  मूलाधार  for  सबसे  of classical mechanics .
Newton also made seminal contributions  to   प्रकाशिकी  and shares  क्रेडिट  with Gottfried Leibniz for  the  invention of the infinitesimal  कलन  .
Newton 's Principia formulated the laws of motion and  सार्वभौमिक  gravitation that dominated scientists ' view  of  the physical  ब्रह्मांड  for the next three centuries .
It also  demonstrated  that the motion of objects  on  the Earth  और  that of celestial bodies  could  be described by the  वही  principles .
by  deriving Kepler  's  laws of planetary motion  इससे  his  गणितीय   वर्णन  of gravity , Newton removed the last  संदेह  about  the  validity of the  heliocentric  model of the cosmos .
न्यूटन   निर्मित  the  पहला  practical reflecting  दूरदर्शी   और  developed a  सिद्धान्त  of colour based on the observation that  a   प्रिज़्म  decomposes white light into the many colours of the  दृश्य  spectrum .
He also  प्रतिपादित  an empirical law of cooling  और  studied the speed of sound  .
In addition to his work on  the  calculus , as a mathematician Newton contributed  to  the study of power series , generalised the binomial theorem to non-integer exponents  ,  and  विकसित  Newton 's method  लिये   approximating  the  जड़ें  of a function  .
Newton was a fellow of Trinity  कॉलेज  and  the  second  lucasian  Professor of  गणित  at the University of Cambridge  .
He was a devout  लकिन  unorthodox Christian and , unusually for a member of the  कैम्ब्रिज  faculty , he refused to take holy orders in the Church of England  ,  perhaps because he privately rejected  the  doctrine  of  trinitarianism .
In addition to his work on the  गणितीय   sciences  , Newton  भी  dedicated much of  उसके  time  to  the study of alchemy  और   biblical  chronology , but most of his  कार्य  in those areas remained unpublished until long  बाद  his death .
In his later life , Newton became president  of  the Royal  समाज  .
he  also served  the   अंग्रेजों  government as Warden and Master  of   the   royal  Mint .
Prof.  वाल्टर  Lewin explains Newton 's  विधि   of  gravitation in MIT  कोर्स  8.01
satellites  and projectiles all obey Newton 's law of gravitation
Newton  's  law  of  universal gravitation states  कि  every  पाइंट   द्रव्यमान  in the universe  attracts  every  अन्य  point mass with a force  कि  is directly proportional to the product of their masses  और  inversely proportional to the  वर्गाकार  of the distance between them .
( Separately it was shown  कि   विशाल  spherically symmetrical masses attract and are attracted as  if  all their mass  यहूद   concentrated  at their centers  .   )
This  is  a  सामान्य  physical law derived from empirical observations  by  what Newton called induction .
It is a  भाग  of classical  यांत्रिकी  and  थी  formulated in  न्यूटन   's  work Philosophiæ  naturalis  Principia Mathematica (  ``  the Principia '' ) , first published on 5 July  1687   .
( When Newton 's  किताब  was presented in 1686 to  the  Royal Society , Robert Hooke made  a  claim that  न्यूटन  had obtained the inverse square law from him – see History section below . )
In  आधुनिक  language , the  विधि   राज्य   the  following:
Assuming SI  इकाई  , F  is  measured in  newtons   (  N ) , m1 and  m2   in  kilograms (  kg   )  , r  in   मीटर  ( m ) , and the constant G is approximately equal to .
The value of the constant G was first accurately  संकल्पित   इससे  the results of the Cavendish experiment conducted by  the   अंग्रेजों  scientist Henry Cavendish in 1798 , although  कैवेंडिश   किया  not himself calculate a  numerical  value  लिये  G  .
This experiment was  भी   the  first test of Newton 's theory of  gravitation  between  masses  in the laboratory  .
it  took place 111  सालो  after  the  publication of Newton 's Principia and  71  years after  न्यूटन  's death , so  none  of Newton 's  calculations  could use the value of G ;  बजाय  he could only  गणना   a  force relative to another  फ़ोर्स  .
Newton 's law of gravitation resembles Coulomb  's   विधि  of electrical forces , which is used to calculate  the   परिमाण  of electrical force between two charged bodies .
Both are inverse-square laws , in which force is  inversely   आंशिक  to the square of the distance between the bodies .
Coulomb 's Law has the product of two charges  in  place of the  उत्पाद  of the masses , and the  electrostatic  constant in  प्लेस  of the gravitational constant .
Newton 's law has since been superseded  by  Einstein 's theory of general  आपेक्षिकता  , but it continues to be used as an excellent approximation  of  the effects of gravity  .
Relativity is required only when there is a need  लिये  extreme precision , or when  dealing  with gravitation for extremely  विशाल  and dense objects .
White and  रेड   ध्वज  , representing Iraqi and  अमरीकी   मौतों  , sit in  the  grass quadrangle of The Valley Library on the Corvallis  ,  Oregon , campus of Oregon State University .
as   भाग  of the traveling Iraq Body  गिनती   प्रदर्शनी  from 2008  to  2009  (  not related to  इराकी  Body Count project ) , the  ध्वज  aim to `` raise awareness of the human cost  of  the  इराकी  War .  ''
( May 2008 )
Casualties of the conflict in  इराकी   चूंकि  2003 ( beginning with the  2003  invasion of Iraq , and continuing with  the  ensuing occupation of Iraq , as  खूब  as the activities of the  विभिन्न  armed  समूह  operating in the country ) have  आइये  in many  फ़ॉर्म  ,  और  the accuracy of the information  उपलब्धियाँ  on different types  of  Iraq War casualties varies greatly .
the  table below  summarizes  various estimates of the Iraqi casualty figures  .
लिये   सैनिकों  in the U.S.-led  बहुराष्ट्रीय   गठबन्धन  , the death toll is carefully  tracked   और  updated  रोज़  ,  और  the names  और  photographs of those killed in  कार्रवाई  as well as in accidents have  महरूम  published widely  .
a   कुल  of 4,486  u.S.  soldiers  यहूद  killed in Iraq between  2003  and 2012 .
Regarding the Iraqis , however , information on both  सैन्य  and  civilian   हताहत  is both less precise and  कम  consistent .
Estimates of casualty levels are available from reporters on the scene , from  officials  of involved organizations ,  और  from groups  कि  summarize information on  incidents   reported  in the  न्यूज  media .
The  शब्द  `` casualties `` in its most general sense includes  the  injured as well as the dead .
Accounts of the number of coalition wounded vary widely  ,  partly because  it   is  not  स्पष्ट  what should be counted : should  तभी  those injuries serious enough to put a soldier out of  आयोग  be included ?
Do illnesses or  चोटों  caused by accidents count  ,  or should the focus be restricted to wounds caused by hostile engagement ?
स्त्रोत  using different definitions may arrive at  बहुत   अलग  numbers ,  और  sometimes the precise definition is not clearly  निर्दिष्ट  .
Asalto al  coche  ( Robbery of  the   कोच   )  ,  by  Francisco de  गोया
A highwayman was  a   चोर  and  brigand  who  preyed  on travellers .
इस  type of  गैरकानूनी  usually travelled  और   robbed  by horse , as compared to a footpad who travelled and  robbed   on  foot .
Mounted robbers were widely considered to  be   socially   श्रेष्ठ   to  footpads .
Such  लुटेरों  operated in Great Britain  और  Ireland from the Elizabethan era until  the  early 19th century .
The  शब्द   highwayman  is first known to be  प्रयुक्त  in the year 1617 ; other euphemisms included ``  शूरवीरों  of the  सड़क  ''  और   ``   सज्जनों  of the road . ''
Two terms applied to 19th-century  उत्तर  American highwaymen were road agents in some instances  लिये  mountain  डाकुओं  while in  अन्य  cases the term  is  Rlallaala for mountain-based  ruffians  .
In the same  समय   काल  in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , they were known  as   bushrangers  .
Earvin `` Magic '' Johnson , Jr. ( born  अगस्त  14 , 1959  )  is  a   रिटायर्ड  American professional basketball player who played point  गार्ड  for  the  Los Angeles Lakers  of   the  National Basketball Association ( NBA ) .
बाद  winning championships in high  स्कूल  and college  ,  Johnson was selected  पहला  overall in the 1979 NBA Draft by the Lakers .
He won a championship and  an  NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award in his rookie season  ,  and won four  अधिक  championships with the Lakers  दौरान  the 1980s .
Johnson retired abruptly in 1991 after announcing that he had  contracted   hiv  ,  लकिन  returned to play in the 1992  all-star  Game , winning the  all-star  MVP Award  .
After protests  इससे  his fellow players  ,  he retired again for four years , but returned in 1996 , at age  36  , to play 32 games for the Lakers before  retiring  for the third and final time .
जॉनसन  's career  उपलब्धियाँ   शामिल   तीन   एनबीए  MVP Awards , nine  एनबीए  Finals appearances , twelve All-Star games , and  टेन  All-NBA First and Second  टोली  nominations  .
he  led  the  league in regular-season assists four times  ,  and is the NBA  's  all-time leader in average assists per game ,  at   11.2  .
Johnson was a member of the `` Dream  टोली  `` ,  the  U.S. basketball team that  जीती  the Olympic gold medal in 1992 .
After leaving the  एनबीए  in 1992 , Johnson formed  the  Magic Johnson All-Stars  ,  a barnstorming team  कि  travelled around the  संसार  playing exhibition games .
Johnson was  सम्मानित  as  एक  of  the  50 Greatest Players  in  NBA History in  1996  ,  और  enshrined in the Basketball  हॉल  of Fame in  2002  .
he  was rated the greatest NBA point guard of all time  by  ESPN  in  2007  .
His friendship and rivalry with Boston Celtics  स्टार  Larry Bird , whom he faced  in  the 1979 NCAA finals and three NBA championship series , were well documented  .
चूंकि  his  रिटायरमेंट  , Johnson  रै  been  an  advocate for HIV/  एड्स  prevention  और   सुरक्षित  sex , as well as an  उद्योगों  ,  लोकसेवक  , broadcaster and motivational speaker .
Johnson was a part-owner of the Lakers  लिये  several years , and was part of  a  group that purchased the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2012 .
Allium cells in different phases of the cell cycle
The cells  of  eukaryotes ( left ) and prokaryotes ( right )
The cell is the basic  संरचनात्मक  , functional  और   biological  unit of all known living organisms .
It is the smallest unit  of  life  कि   is   वर्गीकृत   as  a  जीना  thing ( except virus , which consists only  इससे  DNA/RNA covered by protein and lipids ) , and is often called the building block of life .
it  consists of a protoplasm enclosed within a membrane  ,  which contains many biomolecules such  as  proteins and nucleic acids .
Organisms can be classified as  एककोशिकीय  ( consisting of a single cell ; including most bacteria  )  or multicellular ( including plants and animals ) .
While the number of cells in plants and animals varies from species to species ,  इंसानो  contain  परिचय  100 trillion ( 1014 )  कोशिकाएं  .
सबसे   संयंत्र  and  एनिमल   कोशिकाएं  are between 1 and 100 micrometres and  इसलिए   हैं  visible only under the microscope .
The cell was discovered by  रॉबर्ट  Hooke in  1665  .
the  cell theory , first developed in 1839 by Matthias Jakob Schleiden and Theodor Schwann , states that  सब  organisms are composed of one or more cells , that all cells come from preexisting  कोशिकाएं  , that vital functions of an  सजीव  occur  भीतर  cells , and that all cells contain the  खानदानी   सूचना  necessary for  regulating  cell functions and for transmitting  सूचना   to   the  next generation of cells .
Cells emerged on planet Earth  at  least 4.0–4.3  अरब   सालो  ago  .
The word cell comes  इससे  the Latin cella  ,   अर्थ  ``  छोटी  room '' .
The descriptive  पद   लिये  the  smallest  living biological structure was  coined  by  रॉबर्ट  Hooke in a book he published in 1665 when he  compared  the  कॉर्क  cells he saw through  उसके  microscope to the  छोटी  rooms monks lived in .
Grecian Formula is a men 's hair coloring product  in  the United  राज्य  .
कनाडा  and Europe previously banned  the   उत्पाद  because  of   इसके  use of lead acetate  .
A motor scooter 's front  साथ  an impractical number  और  variety of  headlamps  ,  added  for decorative purposes
A headlamp is a lamp attached to the front  of  a vehicle to light the road ahead .
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile  आयु  , spurred by the great disparity between daytime  और  nighttime traffic fatalities : the  u.S.  National  राजमार्ग  Traffic Safety Administration states that nearly half of all traffic-related fatalities occur in the dark , despite only 25  %  of traffic travelling during  अंधेरा  .
While it is common for  the  term headlight to be used interchangeably  in  informal discussion , headlamp is the term for the device itself ,  जबकि   हेडलाइट  properly refers to the beam  of  light  उत्पादित  and distributed by  the  device  .
अन्य  vehicles ,  ऐसे  as trains and aircraft  ,   हैं  required to have headlamps .
Bicycle headlamps are often used on bicycles , and are required in some jurisdictions .
They can be powered by a battery or a small electrical generator on the  व्हील   .
Additionally automotive  रात्रि  vision  प्रणालियों  work to supplement headlamps .
महिलाओं  's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed for women and girls of many societies worldwide  .
in  some places these rights are institutionalized or  समर्थित   by  law ,  लोकल  custom , and behaviour , whereas in  अन्य  they may be  उपेक्षित  or suppressed  .
They differ  इससे  broader notions of human rights through claims  of  an inherent historical and traditional bias  विरूद्ध   the  exercise of rights  by  women and girls  in   पक्ष  of  मेन  and boys .
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights  शामिल  , though are not limited to  ,  the right  :  to bodily integrity and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public  दफ्तर  ; to work ; to  मेला  wages or  बराबर  pay ;  to   अपना  property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and  to  have  वैवाहिक   ,  parental and religious rights .
Caryn Elaine Johnson , best  ज्ञात   as   whoopi  Goldberg ( , ( born November 13 , 1955 ) is an American comedienne , actress , singer-songwriter , political activist , author and talk  दिखाएँ  host .
Goldberg made her film debut  in  The Color Purple  (  1985  )  , playing  celie  , a mistreated black  स्त्री  in the Deep South .
She received a nomination  लिये  the Academy Award for Best Actress  और   जीती  her first Golden Globe Award for her role  in  the film .
In 1990  ,  she played Oda Mae Brown , a wacky psychic helping a  slain  man ( Patrick  swayze  ) save his  प्रेमी  ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost .
This performance won her a second Golden  ग्लोब  and  an   अकादमी  Award for  बेहतरीन   supporting  Actress ; this made  गोल्डबर्ग  only the second  ब्लैक  woman in the history of the  अकादमी  Awards to  जीत  an  एक्टिंग  Oscar—the  पहला  being  हैटी   mcdaniel   जो  won  लिये  Gone  साथ  the Wind in 1939 .
notable  later  films  include Sister Act and Sister Act 2 , The Player  ,  Made in  अमेरिका  ,  कैसा   स्टेला  Got Her  नाली  Back , Girl , Interrupted and Rat Race .
She is also acclaimed for her  भूमिकाएँ  as the bartender  guinan   in  Star  ट्रेक  : The Next Generation , as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash ,  और  as Carmen Tibideaux in  ग्ली  , as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in  the  Lion King .
Goldberg has been nominated for  13   एमी  Awards for her work in television .
She was co-producer of the popular  खेल  show Hollywood Squares from  1998  to  2004  .
She has been the moderator of the daytime talk show The View  चूंकि  2007 .
Goldberg has a Grammy , two Daytime Emmys  ,  two Golden  ग्लोब्स  , a Tony  (  for production , not acting ) , and an Oscar  .
In  जोड  ,  गोल्डबर्ग  has a  अंग्रेजों   अकादमी  Film Award  ,  four People 's Choice Awards , and  रै  been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
She  is  one of the  few  entertainers who have won an Emmy , Grammy , Oscar ,  और   टोनी  Award .
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an  ``  unincorporated  not-for-profit  association '' which operates a major professional ice hockey league of 30  franchised  member clubs , of which  सात  are currently located in Canada and  23  in  the  United States .
Headquartered in  नई  York City  ,  the NHL is  widely  considered  to  be the  प्रीमियर   पेशेवर   बर्फ   हॉकी  league in the  संसार  ,  और  one of the major professional  खेल   लीग  in  the  United  राज्य  and Canada .
the   स्टेनली   कप  , the oldest professional  खेल  trophy  in  North America ,  is  awarded  annually  to the league playoff champion at the end of each season .
The league was organized on  नवम्बर  26 , 1917 ,  in  Montreal , Quebec , Canada , after  the  suspension of  परिचालन  of  इसके  predecessor organization  ,   the  National Hockey Association ( NHA ) ,  जिससे  had been founded in 1909 .
It started  साथ   चार  teams and , through a series  of  expansions  ,  contractions , and relocations , the league is now composed of 30 active franchises .
The  स्वदेश  to which the  नाम   of  the  लीग  originally referred was Canada  ,   हालांकि  the  लीग   रै   अभी  been  binational  since 1924  जब   it   विस्तारित  into the United States  .
बाद   a  labour dispute that led to the cancellation  of   the  entire 2004–05 season , the  लीग  resumed play under a new collective bargaining agreement that included  a   सैलरी  cap  .
In 2009 , the NHL enjoyed  रिकार्ड  highs in terms of sponsorships , attendance , and television audiences  .
The NHL  draws   अनेक  highly skilled  खिलाड़ी  from all over the world and currently has players from about 20 different countries .
Although Canadians have historically constituted  the   बहुमत  of the  खिलाड़ी  in the NHL , over the past four plus decades the  percentages  of  us   और  European players have increased both  क्युकी  of the NHL  's  continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967  ,   और  the increased  उपलब्धता  of highly skilled European players  .
Maggots feeding  on   carrion  .
A maggot is  the  larva of a fly  (  order  diptera  ) ; it is  लागू  in  particular  to the  लार्वे  of  brachyceran  flies ,  ऐसे   as   houseflies  , cheese flies , and blowflies , rather than larvae of  the  Nematocera , such as mosquitoes and Crane  उड़ता  .
``  maggot  '' is not a technical  पद  and should not be taken as such  ;  in many standard textbooks of entomology  it  does not appear in  the   अनुक्रमणिका  at  सब   .
in  many non-technical texts the term  is  used for  कीट  larvae in general .
Other sources have coined their own definitions ; for example : `` ...
The term applies to  a  grub when all trace of limbs  रै  disappeared ... '' and `` ... Applied to the footless larvae of  dipters  . ''
Maggot-like fly larvae are  of   चौड़ी  importance in  पारिस्थितिकी  and medicine ; among other roles , various species are prominent in recycling carrion and  कचरा  , attacking crops and foodstuffs ,  spreading  microbial infections  ,  and causing  myiasis  .
हेरोदेस  ( , Hordos  ,  Greek : , Hērōdēs ) , also known as Herod the Great ( 73/74 BCE – 4 BCE in  जेरिको  )  ,  was a Roman client  किंग   of   judea  .
His epithet of ``  the  Great  ''  is  widely  disputed as he  is  described as ``  a   madman   जो  murdered  उसके  own family and  a  great many rabbis `` .
He is also known for  उसके  colossal  भवन  projects in Jerusalem  और  elsewhere , including his expansion of the Second  टेम्पल  in Jerusalem ( sometimes  referred  to as  हेरोदेस   's  Temple ) and the  निर्माण  of the port at Caesarea Maritima .
महत्वपूर्ण  details of his biography are gleaned from the works of the 1st century  ce  Roman–Jewish  इतिहासकार   josephus  Flavius .
The Romans made Herod 's son , Herod Archelaus , ethnarch of Judea , Samaria , and Idumea (  biblical   edom  ) from 4 BCE to 6 CE , referred to  as  the tetrarchy of Judea .
archelaus  was judged incompetent by the  रोमन  emperor Augustus  जो  then combined Samaria , Judea  उचित  and Idumea into  iudaea  province under rule  of  a prefect until age  41  .
Herod 's other son Herod  antipas  was tetrarch of  galilee   इससे  4 BCE–39 CE .
ABO blood  समूह  antigens present  on  red blood cells and IgM antibodies present in the serum
The ABO blood group system is  the  most important blood type system ( or  रक्त  group system ) in  इंसान  blood  transfusion   .
The  संबद्ध  anti-A and anti-B antibodies  हैं   प्रायः   igm   antibodies   ,  which are  प्रायः  produced in the first years of life by  sensitization   to  environmental substances  ऐसे  as food , bacteria , and viruses .
abo  blood types  हैं  also present in some  अन्य   पशु  , for example apes such  as  chimpanzees , bonobos , and gorillas  .
Year 1907  (  MCMVII ) was a common year starting on  मंगलवार   (  link will display the full calendar ) of the  gregorian  calendar  और  a common  साल  starting  on   सोमवार   of  the 13-day-slower Julian calendar .
Northville  is  an  affluent   नगर  located in and divided by Oakland and Wayne counties in the  u.S.   राज्य  of Michigan .
the   क्षेत्रफल  is a suburb  of  Metropolitan Detroit .
the  population was 5,970 at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी   .
सबसे  of the city is in  ओकलैंड  County , and  is  surrounded  by  the city  of   novi  .
The  वेन  County portion is surrounded by Northville  township  .
northville   is   परोसा  by Northville Public Schools  .
The city  is  located northeast of Ann  arbor   और  northwest  of  Detroit .
Elaine  stritch  ( born February 2  ,  1925 ) is an American  अभिनेत्री  and vocalist  .
She has appeared in  numerous  stage plays and musicals  ,  feature films ,  और  many television programs .
She is  ज्ञात  for her  प्रदर्शन  of  ``  The  महिलाओं  Who Lunch  ''  in Stephen Sondheim  's  1970 musical  कम्पनी  , her 2001 one-woman show  ,  Elaine Stritch at Liberty , and recently for her role  as  Jack Donaghy  's  mother Colleen on  एनबीसी  's 30 Rock .
She  रै  been  मनोनीत  for the Tony Award five times in various categories .
Stritch is also a  three-time  Emmy  पुरस्कार  winner .
misfits  is a  अंग्रेजों   विज्ञान  fiction  comedy-drama  television show about a group of young offenders sentenced to work in a community service programme , where they obtain supernatural powers after a  अजीब  electrical storm .
The series opened in 2009  और  is currently ongoing  .
Antonia Thomas , Iwan Rheon  ,  Lauren Socha , Nathan Stewart-Jarrett , and Robert Sheehan are introduced as Alisha Daniels , Simon Bellamy , Kelly Bailey , Curtis Donovan ,  और  Nathan Young respectively .
Sheehan left after the second series , replaced  in  the  तीसरा  by Joseph  gilgun  as Rudy  वेड  .
After  the  fourth series was announced Rheon , Thomas  और  Socha had left their roles and would be replaced by new characters Karla  crome  , Nathan McMullen  और  Matt Stokoe , as Jess , Finn and Alex respectively .
Midway through the  चौथी  series , Stewart-Jarrett  बाएँ  while Natasha O'Keeffe joined the cast as Abbey Smith .
On 19 March 2013  ,  Channel 4 announced  at  a press event that they have renewed Misfits for a fifth and final series containing  8  episodes .
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born  अक्तूबर   10  , 1969 ) is a  पूर्व  American football quarterback who spent the majority of  उसके  career with the  ग्रीन  Bay Packers  of  the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was a 20-year  दिग्गज  of the  एनएफएल   ,  having played quarterback for  the  Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 )  ,   ग्रीन  Bay  पैकर्स   (  1992  –   2007   )   ,  New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings (  2009  – 2010 )  .
Favre is the only  क्वार्टरबैक  in NFL history to  throw  for over 70,000 yards , over 500  touchdowns  , over 300 interceptions , over  6,000  completions , and  over  10,000 pass attempts .
Favre started at the  क्वार्टरबैक  position for the University of Southern Mississippi  लिये   चार  years before being selected in  the  second round of the 1991 NFL  ड्राफ्ट  by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ) .
he  was traded to Green Bay on  फ़रवरी  10 , 1992 , for the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft .
Favre became the  पैकर्स  ' starting quarterback in the fourth game of the 1992  ऋतु  ,  stepping  in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski  ,  and started every game through the 2007 season .
He was traded to  the  New York Jets and started at  क्वार्टरबैक  for the 2008 season  पहले  signing  साथ  the Vikings on August 18 ,  2009  as their starting  क्वार्टरबैक  .
he  made an  एनएफएल  record 297 consecutive  starts  ( 321 including playoffs ) .
He  is  the only  खिलाड़ी  to win the AP Most Valuable  खिलाड़ी  three consecutive  टाइम्स  ( 1995–97 )  .
He has led teams to  आठ  division championships  (  1995 , 1996  ,   1997  , 2002 , 2003 ,  2004   ,  2007 , 2009 ) ,  पाँच  NFC Championship Games  (   1995  , 1996 , 1997  ,  2007 , 2009 ) , and  दो  Super  कटोरी  appearances  (  Super Bowl XXXI  ,  Super  कटोरी   xxxii  ) ,  जीतना  one ( Super  कटोरी  XXXI ) .
he  holds  अनेक  NFL records  ,  including most career touchdown passes , most career passing yards , most career pass completions , most career pass attempts , most  करियर   interceptions   thrown  ,  सबसे  consecutive starts by a player , most  लगातार  starts by  a  quarterback , most career victories as a starting quarterback , most  बर्खास्त  , and most fumbles .
He is also referred to by his nickname `` The Gunslinger '' .
The following is  a  list of notable aircraft hijackings around the  संसार  .
the  World Wide Web ( abbreviated as  www  or W3  ,  commonly known as the web  )  , is a system of interlinked hypertext  दस्तावेज़  accessed via the Internet .
With a web browser ,  एक   can   दृश्य  web pages that may contain text  ,  images , videos , and other multimedia , and navigate between them via hyperlinks .
using  concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like  enquire  , British engineer , computer scientist  और  at that time employee of the CERN , Sir Tim  berners-lee  , now  निदेशक  of the World  चौड़ी  Web Consortium ( W3C ) , wrote  a   प्रस्ताव  in March 1989  लिये  what  होता  eventually become the World Wide Web .
At CERN ,  a  European research organisation  निकट   जेनेवा   straddling  the border between France and Switzerland , Berners-Lee and Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext  ``  to  कड़ी   और  access  सूचना  of  विभिन्न  kinds as a web of  नोड  in which the  उपयोक्ता  can browse at will '' , and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year .
वेन   lyman  Morse ( October 20 , 1900July 22  ,  1974  )   थी  a politician and  attorney   इससे   ऑरेगॉन   ,  United  राज्य  , known for  उसके  proclivity  लिये  opposing his parties ' leadership ,  और  specifically for  उसके  opposition to  the  Vietnam War on constitutional grounds  .
Born in  मैडिसन  , Wisconsin , and educated at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and the University of  मिनेसोटा  Law School , Morse moved to Oregon in 1930 and  began  teaching at the University of Oregon School  of  Law  .
During World War II he was  निर्वाचित  to the United  राज्य  Senate as  a  Republican ; he became an  स्वतंत्र  after Dwight D. Eisenhower 's election to the presidency in 1952 .
While  an  independent  ,  he set a record  लिये   performing   the  second  longest   one-person  filibuster in the history of the Senate .
Morse joined the Democratic Party in 1955 , and was reelected twice  जबकि  a member of that  पार्टी  .
मोर्स   बना  a brief run for the  लोकतांत्रिक  Party  's  presidential nomination in  1960  .
A  few  years later , Morse was one of only two Senators who opposed the Gulf  of  Tonkin Resolution , which authorized the president to take military action in Vietnam without a declaration  of  war .
He continued to  बोलो  out against the war in  the  ensuing years , and  खोया  his 1968  बोली  for reelection to Bob Packwood , who criticized his strong opposition to the war .
Morse  बना   दो  more bids  लिये   reelection  to the Senate before his death in  1974  .
In parliamentary  कार्यविधि   ,  a  गति  to  तालिका  has  दो  different and  contradictory   अर्थs:
in   the  United States  ,   to  table usually means the  to  lay [ the  टॉपिक  ] on the table or to move  लिये  postponement of consideration ; a proposal to suspend consideration  of  a pending motion  .
Much less often , it means a motion to `` put on the table '' : a proposal to begin consideration ( or  reconsideration  ) ,  a  usage consistent with the rest of the English-speaking world  .
In the rest of the English-speaking world such as the United  किंगडम   ,  to table means to move to  प्लेस  [ the topic ]  upon   the   तालिका  ( or to move to place on  the  table ) :  a  proposal  to  begin consideration  (  or reconsideration  )  of a proposal .
Both the American and the  अंग्रेजों  dialects have the sense of `` to table '' as to  lay  [ the topic  ]  on the table or  to  cause [ the topic ]  to  lie  on  the table .
the  difference is the  विचार   of  what the table is for , that of a shelf off  to  the side , or  an   क्रियाशील  work  बेंच  .
the  British meaning  रै  the sense  of  the table as being an  क्रियाशील  work  बेंच  ,  साथ   the  topic being the center of attention , considered  और  discussed by all until it can be resolved , at which point it is taken  बंद  the  'table  ' .
The American sense  is  that the  तालिका   is  like that of a shelf , archive  ,   or  long-term storage device  ,  where the  टॉपिक   रै  been disposed of  by   sending  it to  the   'table  ' and leaving it there  .
Toy  स्टोरी  3  is  a 2010 American 3D  कंप्यूटर   एनिमेटेड   comedy-drama  prison film  ,  and  the   तीसरा  installment in the Toy Story series .
It was produced by Pixar Animation Studios and  वितरित  by Walt  डिज़्नी  Pictures .
निर्देशित  by Lee  unkrich  , the  फिल्मी  was released worldwide from June  through  October in Disney Digital 3-D , RealD , and IMAX 3D .
Toy Story 3  थी  also the first film  to  be released theatrically  साथ  Dolby Surround 7.1  ध्वनि  .
The screenplay was written by Michael Arndt ,  जबकि  Unkrich wrote  the  story along  साथ   जॉन   lasseter  and Andrew Stanton ,  क्रमशः  director and co-writer of the two first films .
The plot  focuses  on  the  toys Woody , Buzz Lightyear , and  उनके   मित्रों   dealing  with an uncertain  भविष्य  as their owner ,  एंडी  , prepares to leave for college .
Actors Tom Hanks  ,  Tim Allen , Joan  cusack  , Don  rickles  , Estelle Harris ,  जॉन  Ratzenberger  ,  Wallace Shawn  ,  Jeff Pidgeon , Jodi  बेंसन   ,  R. Lee  ermey  , John Morris , and  लॉरी  Metcalf reprised their voice-over  भूमिकाएँ  from the previous films .
Jim Varney ,  जो  played Slinky Dog  in  the first two films ,  और  Joe Ranft , who portrayed Lenny and Wheezy , both died before production began  on  Toy Story  3   .
The role of Slinky Dog was taken over  by  Blake  क्लार्क  ( a friend of  varney  )  ,  while Ranft 's characters and various others were  लिखा   आउट   of  the story .
New characters include  प्रदर्शन  by Ned Beatty , Timothy Dalton , Kristen  schaal  , Bonnie Hunt , Whoopi Goldberg , Jeff  garlin  ,  रिचर्ड  Kind  ,  and Michael Keaton .
The  विशेषता  broke  shrek  the Thirds record  as  the biggest opening day North American gross for an animated film unadjusted  लिये   महंगाई  , and  a  big opening  साथ  an unadjusted  सकल  of $ 110,307,189 .
It is also the highest-grossing opening weekend for  a  Pixar film , as  खूब   as  the highest-grossing  खोलने  weekend for a  फिल्मी   to  have opened in the  माह   of  June .
This  is  the highest-grossing film  of   2010  , both in the United States and Canada , and worldwide  .
In early August , it became  पिक्चर्स  's highest-grossing film  at  the North  अमरीकी  box office ( surpassing Finding Nemo ) , and the highest-grossing animated film of all time worldwide (  surpassing  Shrek 2 ) ; later that month , Toy Story  3  became the  पहला  ever animated film  in  history to  मेक  over  $  1 billion worldwide  .
It is currently the 10th-highest-grossing film of all time .
Toy Story 3 was nominated for  पाँच  Academy Awards  ,  including Best Picture , Best Adapted Screenplay , and  बेहतरीन  Sound Editing  .
It was  the  third  एनिमेटेड   फिल्मी   (   बाद  Beauty and the Beast  और  Up ) to be  मनोनीत  for Academy Award for Best Picture  .
It won the  पुरस्कार  for Best Animated Feature  और  Best Original Song .
जॉन   levell  Starks ( born August 10  ,  1965  )  is an American retired professional basketball shooting guard .
Starks was listed  at  6'5 '' and 190 pounds during his NBA  playing   करियर  .
Although he was not drafted in the 1988 NBA Draft after attending four  कॉलेजों  in  उसके  native Oklahoma ,  सहित  Oklahoma  राज्य  University , he gained fame while playing  लिये   the  New York Knicks  of  the National Basketball Association in  the  1990s .
Secure  डिजिटल  or ( SD )  is  a  non-volatile  memory card format for use in portable  डिवाइस   ,  such  as  mobile phones , digital cameras , GPS navigation devices ,  और  tablet computers .
the  Secure Digital standard is maintained by  the  SD Card Association ( SDA ) .
sd  technologies have been implemented in more  than  400  ब्रांड्स  across dozens of product categories  और  more than 8,000  मॉडल   .
the  Secure Digital  स्वरूप  includes four card families available in three  अलग   रूप  factors .
The four families are the original Standard-Capacity ( SDSC )  ,  the High-Capacity (  sdhc  ) , the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ) , and the SDIO  ,  which combines  input/output  functions with data storage .
the  three  रूप  factors  हैं  the original size , the `` mini '' size , and the `` micro '' size  (  see illustration ) .
वहीँ   हैं  many combinations of form factors  और  device families .
electrically  passive adapters allow the  उपयोग  of a smaller  कार्ड  in a  मेजबान  device built  to  hold a larger card .
मेजबान  devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide  पिछड़ा  compatibility and accept older SD cards , but this article  explains   अनेक  factors that can  prevent  the use  of  a  नए  SD card:
A  नए  card may offer greater capacity than the host device can handle .
A newer card may use  a  file  प्रणाली  the host device can not navigate  .
Use of an SDIO card requires the host device be designed for  the  input/output functions  the  card provides  .
the  organization of the  कार्ड   थी  changed starting  साथ  the SDHC family  .
Some vendors produced SDSC  ताश  above 1  gb  before  the  SDA had standardized a method of doing so .
The  sda  uses several trademarked logos to enforce compliance with its specifications and  assure  users of  संगतता  .
Hugh John Mungo Grant  (  born 9 September 1960 ) is a  अंग्रेजों  actor and film producer .
He has received a  सुनहरी  Globe  ,  a BAFTA ,  और  an Honorary César .
His  films  have  अर्जित  more  than  US  $  2.4 billion  इससे   25   नाट्य  releases worldwide .
Grant achieved  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  stardom after appearing  in  Richard Curtis 's successful Four  विवाह  and a Funeral (  1994  ) .
He used  इस  breakthrough  भूमिका  as  a   बारंबार  cinematic  persona  during the 1990s , delivering comic performances in mainstream films like Mickey  ब्लू  Eyes ( 1999 ) and  नॉटिंग  Hill (  1999  ) .
by  the  फेरे  of  the   21st  century , he had established himself as a leading man skilled with a satirical comic talent .
Grant has expanded his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a cad in Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ) , About A Boy (  2002  ) , Love  दरअसल  ( 2003 )  ,  and  अमरीकी   dreamz  ( 2006 ) .
he  later  निभाई  against type with multiple cameo roles in the epic drama film Cloud Atlas (  2012   )  .
Within  the  film  उद्योग   ,   ग्रान्ट  is  cited  as an anti-film star  जो  approaches  उसके  roles like a character actor , and attempts to make his  एक्टिंग  appear spontaneous .
hallmarks  of his comic skills  शामिल  a  nonchalant  touch of irony / sarcasm  और  studied physical mannerisms  as  well as his precisely-timed dialogue  डिलीवरी  and facial expressions .
The entertainment media 's coverage of Grant 's life off the big screen has often  निष्प्रभ  his work as a thespian .
He has  महरूम  vocal about his  अनादर  for  the   व्यवसायिक  of acting ,  और  in his disdain towards  the   संस्कृति  of celebrity and hostility towards the media .
in  a career spanning 30 years ,  ग्रान्ट  has repeatedly claimed that acting is not a true  कॉलिंग   लकिन   बस  a job he  गिरी  into .
The Han Dynasty (  ;   )  ( 206  bc  – 220 AD ) was an  इम्पीरियल  dynasty  of  China , preceded by the Qin Dynasty  (  221–207 BC  )  and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms ( 220–280 AD ) .
It was founded by the rebel leader Liu Bang  ,  known posthumously as Emperor Gaozu  of  Han .
It was briefly  बाधित  by the Xin  राजवंश  ( 9–23 AD  )  of the former regent  वांग  Mang  .
This interregnum  separates  the Han into two periods : the Western Han  (  206 BC  –   9  AD )  और  Eastern Han  (  25–220 AD ) .
Spanning over four centuries , the period of the Han  राजवंश  is considered  a   सुनहरी   आयु  in Chinese history .
To this day , China 's  बहुमत  ethnic group refers to itself as the  ``  Han people '' and the Chinese script  is  referred to as `` Han characters `` .
The Han  साम्राज्य   थी  divided  into  areas directly controlled by the central government ,  ज्ञात   as  commanderies  ,  and a number of semi-autonomous kingdoms .
These kingdoms gradually lost all  vestiges  of their independence  ,  particularly following the  विद्रोह  of the Seven  राज्य  .
the  Xiongnu ,  a   nomadic  confederation  जिससे   वर्चस्व   the   पूर्वी  Eurasian Steppe , defeated the Han  फौज  in  बैटल  in 200 BC  .
following  the defeat ,  a  political marriage alliance was negotiated in which the  हान  became the de facto inferior partner .
When  ,  despite  the  treaty , the  xiongnu  continued  to   रेड   हान  borders  ,  Emperor  wu  of Han ( r.  141–87  BC  )   शुभारम्भ  several military campaigns against them .
the  ultimate  हान  victory in these  युद्धों  eventually forced the Xiongnu to  accept  vassal  औकात  as Han  tributaries   .
These  अभियान  expanded Han sovereignty into the Tarim Basin of Central Asia and helped establish the vast trade network known as the Silk Road , which reached as far as  the   भूमध्यसागरीय  world  .
Han forces managed  to  divide the Xiongnu  into  two competing  राष्ट्र  ,  the   दक्षिणी  and Northern Xiongnu , and forced  the  Northern  xiongnu   आरपार  the  इली  River .
Despite  ये  victories , the territories north of Han 's  सीमायें  were quickly  overrun  by the nomadic Xianbei Confederation .
After 92  ad  , the palace eunuchs  increasingly  involved  themselves  in court politics  ,   engaging  in violent power struggles between the various  consort  clans of the empresses  और  empress dowagers , causing the Han 's ultimate downfall .
Imperial authority was also seriously  challenged  by large Daoist  धार्मिक   समाजों  which  instigated  the Yellow Turban Rebellion and the Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion .
Following the  मौत  of Emperor Ling ( r. 168–189 AD ) , the palace eunuchs suffered wholesale massacre  by  military officers  ,  allowing members of  the  aristocracy  और  military governors to  become  warlords and divide the empire .
When Cao Pi  ,   किंग  of  वेई  , usurped the throne from  सम्राट  Xian , the Han Dynasty ceased to exist .
The Han Dynasty was an age of economic prosperity and saw a significant growth  of  the money economy  पहला   स्थापित  during the  झोऊ   राजवंश   (  c. 1050–256 BC ) .
The coinage issued by the central government mint in 119 BC  remained  the standard  coinage  of China until the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907 AD ) .
To pay for its military campaigns and the settlement of newly conquered frontier territories ,  the  government nationalized the private  नमक  and iron  उद्योग  in 117  bc  .
These government monopolies were repealed during the Eastern Han period , and the lost  आय  was recouped through  heavily   taxing   निजी  entrepreneurs .
The emperor was at the  शिखर  of Han society  .
He  presided  over the Han government but shared power with  दोनो   the   धामों  and appointed  मंत्रियों  who came largely from the scholarly gentry  क्लास  .
From the reign  of  Emperor Wu onward  ,   the  Chinese court  officially  sponsored Confucianism in education and court politics , synthesized with  the   cosmology  of later scholars such as Dong  zhongshu  .
This  नीति   endured  until the fall of the Qing Dynasty  in  1911  ad  .
Science and technology during the Han period saw significant advances , including papermaking , the nautical steering rudder ,  the  use of negative numbers in mathematics ,  the  raised-relief map  ,  the hydraulic -powered armillary sphere for astronomy , and a seismometer employing  an  inverted pendulum .
Tourette syndrome ( also called Tourette  's   सिंड्रोम  , Tourette 's disorder  ,  Gilles de la  tourette   सिंड्रोम  , GTS or , more  commonly  , simply Tourette 's or TS  )  is  an   inherited  neuropsychiatric  विकार  with onset in childhood ,  characterized   by  multiple physical  (  motor ) tics and at least one vocal  (  phonic ) tic .
These tics characteristically wax and wane , can be suppressed temporarily  ,  and are preceded by  a   premonitory  urge .
Tourette  's  is defined as part of  a  spectrum  of  tic disorders , which includes transient and chronic tics .
Tourette  's   थी  once  माना  a rare and bizarre syndrome , most often associated with the exclamation of  obscene  words or socially inappropriate and  अपमानजनक   remarks  ( coprolalia  )  , but this  लक्षण  is  उपस्थित  in only a small minority of people  साथ  Tourette 's .
Tourette 's is  no  longer  माना  a rare condition , but  it  is not always correctly identified because  सबसे  cases are mild and  the  severity  of  tics decreases for most children as they pass through adolescence .
Between 0.4  %  and 3.8 % of children  आयु  5 to 18 may have  tourette   's   ;  the prevalence of transient and  दीर्घकालिक   tics  in school-age children is  उच्चतर  , with  the  more common tics of eye blinking , coughing , throat  clearing   ,  sniffing , and  फेशियल  movements  .
Extreme  tourette  's in adulthood  is  a rarity , and Tourette 's does not adversely affect intelligence or life  प्रत्याशा  .
Genetic and  पर्यावरणीय  factors play a role in the etiology  of  Tourette 's , but the exact causes  हैं   अनजान  .
In most cases , medication is unnecessary  .
There is no effective treatment for every  मामला  of tics , but certain medications and therapies  can  help when  उनके   उपयोग   is  warranted  .
Education is  an  important part of any  उपचार  plan , and explanation and reassurance alone are  प्रायः   sufficient  treatment .
Comorbid conditions ( co-occurring  diagnoses  other than Tourette 's  )  such as  attention-deficit  hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) and obsessive–compulsive disorder ( OCD ) are present  in   अनेक  patients seen in tertiary specialty clinics  .
These other conditions often cause more functional  पुतलियों   to   the  individual than the tics that are the hallmark  of  Tourette  's   ,  hence it is  महत्वपूर्ण  to correctly identify comorbid conditions and treat them .
The eponym was bestowed by Jean-Martin Charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on behalf  of  his resident , Georges Albert Édouard Brutus Gilles de la  tourette  ( 1859–1904 ) ,  a   फ्रेंच  physician  और   neurologist  , who  प्रकाशित  an  खाता  of  नौ   मरीजों  with Tourette 's in 1885 .
Sunbeam badge .
Sunbeam was a marque registered by John  marston   co.   ltd   of  Wolverhampton , England ,  in  1888 .
the  company  पहला  made bicycles , then motorcycles and  गाड़ियाँ   इससे   the  late 19th century until about 1936 , and  लागू  the marque  to   सब  three forms of transportation .
The company  भी  manufactured aero engines in the First  संसार  War and 647 aircraft during the Second World War .
A Sunbeam  थी   the   पहला  British car to win  a  Grand  प्रिक्स  race  ,  and set a number of land  गति  records .
The  कम्पनी  went into receivership in 1935 and was purchased by the Rootes Group  ,  which continued  to  use the Sunbeam  marque   .
Fox News Channel (  fnc   )   ,  also known as Fox  न्यूज  , is a cable  न्यूज  channel owned by the  फॉक्स  Entertainment Group ,  a   subsidiary  of News Corporation .
As of April 2009 , the channel was  उपलब्धियाँ  to 102 million households  in   the  United States and to viewers  internationally  , broadcasting  primarily  from its  नई  York studios .
The channel was created  by   australian-american  media mogul Rupert Murdoch ,  जो  hired former NBC executive Roger Ailes as its founding CEO .
It launched on October 7 , 1996 to 17 million cable subscribers .
it  grew during the late 1990s  और  2000s to become the dominant cable news network in the United States  .
Critics have stated that  फॉक्स  News Channel  promotes  conservative political positions  और  biased reporting  .
Commentators , news anchors , and reporters at Fox News Channel have responded that news reporting and political commentary operate  independently  of each other , and have denied any bias  in  news reporting .
The mandibular  पहला  molar  or  six-year molar is the tooth located distally ( away from the  midline  of  the  face ) from both  the  mandibular second premolars of  the   मुँह  but mesial ( toward the midline of the face )  इससे  both mandibular second molars .
It  is  located on the mandibular ( lower  )  arch of  the  mouth , and generally opposes the maxillary ( upper  )  first molars and the maxillary 2nd premolar in normal  क्लास  I occlusion  .
The function of this molar is  समान  to  कि  of all molars in regard to  पीस  being the principal action during mastication , commonly known  as  chewing .
वहीँ  are usually five well-developed cusps  on  mandibular  पहला  molars :  दो  on the buccal ( side nearest the cheek ) ,  दो  lingual ( side nearest the  जीभ  ) , and one distal .
वहीँ  are great differences between the deciduous ( baby ) mandibular molars and  those  of  the  permanent  mandibular  molars ,  भी   हालांकि  their function are similar  .
The permanent mandibular molars are not considered  to  have any teeth  कि  precede it  .
Despite being named molars , the deciduous molars are followed by permanent premolars .
in  the  सार्वभौमिक  system  of   संकेतन   ,   the  deciduous mandibular first molars are designated by a  अक्षर  written in uppercase  .
The right deciduous mandibular  पहला   molar   is  known as ``  s  '' ,  और  the  बाएँ  one is  ज्ञात  as  ``  L '' .
the  international  संकेतन  has a different system of notation .
Thus  ,  the  सही  deciduous mandibular first molar is  ज्ञात  as `` 84  ''   ,  and the left one is known as `` 74 '' .
In the universal system  of  notation  ,  the permanent mandibular first molars are  designated  by a  क्रमांक  .
The right permanent mandibular first  molar  is known  as  ``  30  '' , and the left  एक  is  ज्ञात  as  ``  19 '' .
The  पामर  notation  उपयोग  a number in conjunction with a symbol designating in which quadrant  the  tooth is  मिला  .
For this  दाँत  , the left and right first molars would have the  वही  number  ,  `` 6 '' , but the right one would have the symbol  ,   ``  ┐ '' , over it ,  जबकि  the left one would have , `` ┌ '' .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  notation has a different numbering system than  the  previous two  ,  and the  सही  permanent mandibular first molar is known as ``  46  '' , and  the  left one  is  known as `` 36 '' .
Mandibular  प्राथमिक  first molars usually have four pulp horns .
the  first molar is usually the first permanent  दाँत  to erupt and  रै  adult undertones .
anatomy  : The  mandibular  first  molar  has five cusps :  the  mesiobuccal  (  MB , toward  midline  and cheek ) , mesiolingual  (   ml  ,  toward  midline and  जीभ  )  ,  distolingual ( DL , away  इससे   midline   और  towards tongue ) ,  distobuccal  ( DB , away from midline  और  toward  गाल  ) , and distal  (  D , away  इससे  midline  )  , listed in order  of  decreasing size .
सूचीबद्ध  in order of decreasing height they are :  ml  ,  dl  ,  df  ,  mf  , and D. An eighth cusp was found in a primary second lower molar in an Argentinean child  .
viewed  from the top of the tooth ( occlusal  दृश्य   )  , the  mandibular  first molar is  pentagonal  ( five sided ) in shape and tapers toward the lingual , with the sides being the buccal  सतह  , the mesial surface , the lingual surface , distal surface , and the  distobuccal  surface .
The occlusal surface  रै  four grooves .
The central groove is not straight but runs  bas  the center of the tooth mesially to  distally  and contains four pits  (   mesial  ,  सेंट्रल  ,  सेंट्रल  , and distal  )   .
The distobuccal  नाली  runs from the distal pit in the central groove  distobuccally   separating   the   distal   और  distobuccal cusps .
the  lingual groove runs  इससे   the  more distal of the central pits  in  the central groove toward the lingual surface between the mesiolingual and  distolingual   पुलिन  .
The buccal  नाली  runs from the more mesial of the central pits in the central  नाली  toward the buccal surface  between  the  mesiobuccal  and distobuccal cusps  समाप्ति  in the buccal pit  .
The portion of the central groove between the central pits is termed the Lewis offset and is mandatory  to   खाता  for the locations of the buccal and lingual grooves (  buccal  groove  होने  more mesial than  the  lingual groove while they are parallel ) .
From the buccal  (  buccal view  )  , two roots are present .
The  distal  root is  generally   straighter   ,  although  दोनो  often have a slight distal curvature  .
The  हाइट्स   of  contour on  the  mesial and distal contact the adjacent teeth  और  are located at the junction  of   the  occlusal and  मध्य  thirds  of  the crown .
The  फ्लोरिडा   विधानमंडल  is  the   दो  houses that  अधिनियम  as the state  विधानमंडल  of the U.S. state of Florida .
The Florida  संविधान  states that ``  the  legislative power of the state shall be vested in a legislature of the  राज्य  of Florida , ''  रचित   of  a Senate and House of Representatives .
the  legislature  is  seated at the Florida State Capitol in Tallahassee  .
Stained glass  चित्रण  of Daniel interceding with Arioch  ,   the  king 's guard  .
Arioch had been  चार्ज  with killing all the wise men after they were not able to interpret Nebuchadnezzar 's dream .
Daniel  2  is the  दूसरी  chapter of the  किताब  of  डेनियल  in  the  Hebrew Bible .
The  अध्याय  's source  टेक्स्ट   is  predominantly written  in  Aramaic .
According to the text ,  nebuchadnezzar  is  the  king of Babylon who is troubled  by  his dreams  .
He  मांगे  an interpretation  लिये  his dreams or will have his mystic  interpreters  executed .
Daniel seeks Divine Wisdom  to   interpret  the king 's dreams and praises God with a  छोटी  psalm .
God gives Daniel  a  vision in the night to reveal the king 's dream .
Able to satisfy the  किंग  , Daniel is promoted  over  the whole province of Babylon .
One Comcast Center , the headquarters of  comcast   in   फिलाडेल्फिया  , PA .
The old  comcast  logo from  1969  to 1999 ,  जब   it  was  replaced  with the crescent logo .
The Comcast Corporation is an American  प्रदाता  of  entertainment  , information and communications  उत्पाद  and services .
It is the  largest   केबल  operator , one of the  biggest  mass  मीडिया  , home Internet service  प्रदाता  ,  और  third  largest  home telephone service provider in the United  राज्य   ,  providing  केबल   टेलीविज़न  ,  ब्रॉडबैंड  Internet ,  टेलीफोन  service and in  कुछ  areas home  सुरक्षा  (  सहित  burglar alarms , surveillance cameras , fire alarm systems and  घर   स्वचालन   )  to both residential  और  commercial customers in 40 states and the District of  कोलंबिया  .
The company is headquartered in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania .
In  2011   ,  Comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media conglomerate  nbcuniversal  from  ge  in January 2011 , and began  the  process of purchasing the remaining  49  % on  फ़रवरी   12  , 2013 , at a cost of $ 16.7  अरब   .
It completed the purchase on March 19 , 2013 .
Comcast also  रै  significant holding  in   अनेक   केबल  networks ( including E !
entertainment  Television ,  स्टाइल  Network , G4  ,  the Golf  चैनल  and  एनबीसी  Sports Network )  ,  distribution  (  ThePlatform ) ,  और  related businesses .
comcast  has been the subject of criticism for activities including  इसके  stance on  जाल  neutrality  ,  as well as  ग़रीब  results on  ग्राहक  satisfaction surveys .
Porcupines are rodents with a coat of  शार्प  spines , or quills  ,  that defend and camouflage them  इससे   परभक्षी  .
They are indigenous to the Americas , southern Asia ,  और  Africa  .
Porcupines are the third largest of the rodents , behind the capybara  और  the beaver .
Most  porcupines  are about long , with an long tail .
weighing  ,  वे   हैं  rounded , large  और  slow  .
Porcupines  आइये  in  विभिन्न   शेड्स   of  brown , gray , and  the   असामान्य   श्वेत  .
Porcupines ' spiny protection resembles that of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs and monotreme echidnas  .
The common porcupine is a  herbivore  .
It eats leaves , herbs ,  टहनियों  and green plants like skunk cabbage and clover and  in  the winter it may eat bark .
The  उत्तर  American  साही  often climbs  पेड़  to find  खाना  .
the  African  साही  is  नहीं  a climber  और   forages  on the ground .
It is mostly nocturnal , but will sometimes forage for food in the day .
Porcupines have become a pest in Kenya and  हैं  eaten  as  a delicacy .
the  name porcupine comes from Middle French porc espin ( spined pig ) .
A regional American name  लिये  the animal is quill pig .
First page of US  पेटेंट  129,843 for Improvement in Lubricators for  steam-engines
इलियास  J. McCoy (  may  2 , 1844 – October 10 ,  1929  ) was a black Canadian-American inventor and engineer , who was notable  लिये  his 57  u.S.  patents ,  सबसे  to do with lubrication  of  steam engines  .
born   फ़्री  in Canada  ,  he returned as a five-year-old child with his family to the United  राज्य  in 1847 , where he lived for the rest of his life and became a US citizen .
Honda FCX  स्पष्टता   ,  a  हाइड्रोजन  fuel cell demonstration vehicle introduced in 2008
a  hydrogen vehicle is a vehicle that uses hydrogen as  इसके  onboard fuel for motive power .
Hydrogen vehicles include hydrogen fueled space rockets  ,  as  खूब  as automobiles  और  other  परिवहन  vehicles  .
The  शक्ति  plants of such vehicles convert  the  chemical  उर्जा  of hydrogen to mechanical energy  either  by burning hydrogen in an internal combustion engine , or by reacting  हाइड्रोजन  with  ऑक्सीजन   in  a fuel  कोशिका  to run electric  मोटर्स   .
Widespread use of hydrogen for fueling transportation is  a  key  तत्व  of a  प्रस्तावित   हाइड्रोजन  economy .
Hydrogen fuel does  नहीं   occur  naturally on Earth and thus is not an energy source ; rather it is an energy  वाहक  .
It is most  अक्सर   बना  from methane or other  चट्टान  fuels , but  it   can   be   उत्पादित  using  स्त्रोत  ( such as wind , solar , or  नाभिकीय  )  कि  are intermittent , too diffuse or too  cumbersome  to directly propel vehicles .
एकीकृत  wind-to-hydrogen plants  ,  using electrolysis  of  water , are exploring  technologies  to  उद्धार  costs  कम  enough  ,  and quantities great enough , to compete  साथ  traditional energy sources .
Many companies are working to develop technologies  कि  might efficiently exploit the  संभावित   of   हाइड्रोजन   उर्जा  for mobile uses .
The  आकर्षण  of using hydrogen as an energy currency is that , if  हाइड्रोजन  is  prepared  without using fossil fuel inputs , vehicle propulsion would not contribute to  कार्बन  dioxide emissions .
The  कमियां  of hydrogen  उपयोग   हैं  high capital  लागत  , low energy content per  ईकाई  volume , high tankage weights ,  बहुत  high storage vessel pressures , the  भंडार  , transportation and filling of gaseous  or  liquid hydrogen in vehicles ,  the  large investment in infrastructure  कि   होता  be  जरूरी   to  fuel vehicles , and the  inefficiency  of production processes .
Sacramento is the  पूंजी  city of the  u.S.   राज्य   of  California and the seat of  सरकारी  of Sacramento County .
It is located at the confluence of the  sacramento  River and the American River in the northern portion of California  's   expansive   सेंट्रल  Valley .
With an estimated 2011 population  of  477,891  ,  it is the sixth-largest city in California and  the  35th largest  नगर  in the United States  .
Sacramento is the core  सांस्कृतिक  and economic center of  the  Sacramento metropolitan area which includes seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123 .
Its metropolitan area  is   the  fourth largest in California after  the   वृहद  Los  एंजिल्स   क्षेत्रफल   ,  San Francisco Bay Area , and the San Diego metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल   ,  as  खूब  as  the  25th largest  in  the United States .
sacramento  was cited  by  Time  पत्रिका  as America 's most  ethnically  and racially integrated city in  2002  .
Sacramento became a city through  the  efforts  of  the Swiss immigrant  जॉन  Sutter , Sr.  ,  his son John  sutter  , Jr.  ,  and James W.  मार्शल  .
Sacramento  grew  quickly thanks to the protection of Sutter  's  Fort , which  थी  established by Sutter in 1839 .
दौरान  the California Gold  फटाफट  , Sacramento was a major distribution point , a  वाणिज्यिक  and agricultural center , and a  टर्मिनस  for wagon trains , stagecoaches  ,  riverboats ,  the   टेलीग्राफ   ,  the  टट्टू  Express , and the First  transcontinental  Railroad .
कैलिफ़ोर्निया  State University  ,  Sacramento , more commonly  ज्ञात  as Sacramento State or Sac  राज्य  , is the largest local  विश्वविद्यालयों  .
It is one  of  the twenty-three campuses of the California State  विश्वविद्यालयों  system .
Drexel University Sacramento  is  located  in   शहर  , Sacramento .
University of the Pacific 's McGeorge School of  विधि  is located in  the   ओक   पार्क  neighborhood .
In  जोड  , the University of California , Davis is located  in  nearby Davis , west of the capital .
The UC Davis Medical Center , a world-renowned  शोध  hospital , is located  in   the  city  of  Sacramento .
The  ठहराना  Store is a chain of retail stores  स्वामित्व   और  operated by Apple  inc.  , dealing in computers and consumer  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स  .
The stores sell  मैकिंटोश  personal  कंप्यूटर  , software ,  ipods  , iPads , iPhones ,  third-party   accessories  , and other  उपभोक्ता  electronics such as Apple TV .
Some high profile stores feature a Theatre for presentations and  वर्कशॉप  and a Studio for  प्रशिक्षण  with Apple  उत्पाद  ;  सब  stores offer a Genius Bar for technical  support  and repairs  ,  as  खूब  as free  वर्कशॉप  available  to  the public .
Under the leadership of Ron  जॉनसन  , the former Senior Vice President  of  Retail Operations , the Apple  स्टोर्स   have  , according to  an  article in the New York Times  ,   महरूम  responsible for `` [ turning ] the boring computer sales  मंजिल  into a  sleek  playroom filled  साथ   गैजेट  ''  .
,  ठहराना  has 405 stores worldwide  ,   साथ  global sales of  अरब  in merchandise in 2011  ,  and they lead the United States retail market in  शर्तें  of sales per  ईकाई  area .
Steven Paul `` Steve '' Jobs ( ; February 24 , 1955 – October 5 , 2011 ) was an American entrepreneur and inventor , best  ज्ञात  as  the  co-founder , chairman , and CEO of Apple Inc .
Through Apple , he was widely recognized as a charismatic pioneer of the personal computer revolution  और  for his influential career  in  the computer and consumer  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स  fields  ,  transforming ``  एक  industry  बाद  another , from computers and smartphones to music and movies ... ''
Jobs  भी  co-founded and served as  मुख्य   कार्यपालिका  of Pixar Animation Studios ; he became  a  member of the  फलक  of directors of  the  Walt Disney Company in 2006 , when  डिज़्नी  acquired  पिक्चर्स  .
Jobs was among the  पहला  to see the commercial potential  of  Xerox PARC 's mouse -driven  आलेखीय  user interface , which led to the  सृष्टि  of  the  Apple Lisa and , one  साल  later ,  the  Macintosh .
He also played a role in introducing the  laserwriter  , one  of   the  first widely available laser printers , to the market .
After a power struggle  साथ  the board of directors in 1985 , Jobs left Apple  और  founded NeXT , a computer  मंच   विकास  company  specializing  in the higher-education and business  बाज़ार  .
In 1986 , he acquired the  कंप्यूटर  graphics division of Lucasfilm , which was spun off as  पिक्चर्स  .
He was  credited   in  Toy Story ( 1995  )   as  an executive producer  .
He served as CEO and majority shareholder until Disney 's purchase of Pixar in  2006  .
In 1996 ,  बाद   ठहराना  had failed to deliver its operating  प्रणाली  , Copland , Gil  amelio  turned  to  NeXT Computer , and the NeXTSTEP  मंच  became the foundation for the Mac  os   x  .
Jobs  लौटे  to Apple as  an  advisor  ,  and took control of the company as an  अंतरिम  CEO .
Jobs brought Apple from  निकट  bankruptcy to profitability by 1998  .
as  the  नई  CEO of the company , Jobs oversaw the development of the  imac  , iTunes , iPod , iPhone , and iPad , and  on   the  services side , the company 's Apple Retail Stores  ,  iTunes Store and the App Store .
The success of these products and services provided several years of stable financial returns , and  propelled   ठहराना   to  become the world 's most valuable publicly  traded  company in 2011  .
the  reinvigoration of the company is regarded by many commentators as one of the greatest turnarounds in business  इतिहास   .
in  2003 ,  कार्य  was diagnosed with a pancreas neuroendocrine  ट्यूमर  .
Though it was initially treated , he reported a hormone imbalance , underwent a liver transplant in 2009  ,  and  appeared  progressively thinner  as  his health declined .
On medical leave  लिये  most of  2011  , Jobs resigned in August that year ,  और  was elected Chairman of the Board .
he   died   of  respiratory arrest related to his  metastatic  tumor on October 5 ,  2011  .
कार्य  received  a   क्रमांक  of honors and public recognition for  उसके  influence  in  the technology and  म्यूज़िक  industries .
He  रै   महरूम  referred to as `` legendary '' , a ``  futurist  '' or simply `` visionary ''  ,   और  has been  वर्णित   as  the `` Father  of  the  डिजिटल  Revolution '' , a  ``  master of innovation '' , and  a  ``  डिज़ाइन  perfectionist '' .
Entrance  to  section ( 52  )  of  the  Colosseum , with numerals still visible
Roman numerals  ,  the numeric system in ancient  रोम   ,  uses combinations of letters from  the   लैटिन  alphabet to signify values  .
The numbers 1 to 10 can be  expressed  in  रोमन  numerals as  follows:
and  .
the   रोमन  numeral system is a cousin of  etruscan  numerals  .
Use of Roman numerals continued after the decline of the Roman Empire .
From the  14th  century  on  , Roman  numerals  began to be replaced  in   सबसे  contexts by  अधिक   सुविधाजनक  Hindu-Arabic numerals  ;  however this process was gradual , and the use of Roman numerals in  कुछ  minor applications continues  to  this day .
Effective  नाभिकीय  Charge Diagram
the   प्रभावी  nuclear charge ( often symbolize  as   or  Z* )  is   the  net positive charge experienced by an electron in a multi-electron atom .
The term `` effective '' is used because the shielding effect of negatively charged electrons prevents  उच्चतर  orbital electrons from experiencing the  पूरा  nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons .
The effective nuclear  चार्ज   अनुभवी  by the outer  शेल  electron is also  पुकारा  the core charge .
it  is possible to determine the strength of the nuclear charge by looking at  the  oxidation number of the  अणु  .
This is  a   सूची   of  episodes from the Discovery Channel series ,  तूफ़ान  Chasers .
a  rural stretch of I-5 , with two lanes  in  each  दिशा  separated by  a  large grassy median , and  साथ  cross-traffic  सीमित  to overpasses and underpasses
The Dwight D.  आइज़नहावर  National System of Interstate and Defense Highways ( commonly known as the Interstate  राजमार्ग  System ,  अंतरराज्यीय  Freeway System , Interstate System  ,  or simply  the  Interstate ) is a network of freeways  कि  forms  a   भाग  of the National  राजमार्ग  System of the  संयुक्त  States .
the  system is  नामित   लिये  President Dwight D.  आइज़नहावर  ,  जो   championed   इसके  formation .
Construction was authorized by  the  Federal Aid Highway Act  of  1956 , and the original portion  थी  completed 35 years later .
The  संजाल  has since been extended , and  ,  it  था  a total length  of  , making it the world 's second longest after China 's . , about one-quarter of all vehicle miles driven  in  the country use the Interstate system .
The cost  of  construction has  महरूम  estimated at  $  425 billion (  in  2006 dollars ) , making it the `` largest public  works  program since  the  Pyramids `` .
The system has contributed  in  shaping the  संयुक्त  States into  a   संसार   आर्थिक  superpower and a  अत्यधिक   industrialized   स्वदेश  .
.eu  is  the country  कोड  top-level domain (  cctld  ) for the European  संघ   (  EU ) .
Launched on 7 December 2005  ,  the domain  is  available for organisations in and  निवासियों   of  EU  सदस्य  states .
The TLD  is  administered  by  EURid , a consortium originally consisting of the  नेशनल  ccTLD registry operators of Belgium  ,   स्वीडन  , and Italy , joined later by the national registry operator of the  चेक  Republic .
Trademark owners were able to submit registrations  through  a sunrise period  ,  in  an  effort to prevent  cybersquatting  .
Full  पंजीकरण  started on 7 April 2006 .
Meister means master in German ( as in master craftsman ,  or  as  an  honorific title such as Meister  eckhart  ) .
The word is akin to maestro .
In  खेल  , Meister is used  लिये  the current national , European or world champion ( Deutscher Meister ,  *europameister  , Weltmeister ) .
Many modern day German police  शक्तियां   उपयोग  the  शीर्षक  Meister .
During the Second  संसार  War  ,   meister  was  the  highest  आयोजिक  rank of the Ordnungspolizei  .
meister   रै  been borrowed into  अंग्रेज़ी  slang  ,  where it is used in compound nouns  .
a   व्यक्ति  referred to  as  “Meister” is one who has extensive theoretical knowledge and practical skills in his profession , business , or some other  दयालु  of work or activity  .
For example ,  a   “puzzle-meister”  would be someone highly  skilled  at solving puzzles  .
These neologisms sometimes have a sarcastic intent ( for example ,  “stubble-meister”  for someone with a short , neat  दाढ़ी   or  “crier-meister”  लिये  someone who  प्रायः  cries ) .
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is an American  live-action  children 's television series about  teenagers  with super-powers ,  आधारित  on the 16th installment of the Japanese Super Sentai franchise  ,  Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger .
Both the  दिखाएँ   और  its related merchandise saw  unbridled  overnight success , becoming a staple of 1990s  पॉप  culture in  mere  months .
Under the original name ,  ``  Mighty Morphin Power Rangers ''  the  series ran  इससे  1993 to 1995 and  शाखित  the feature film Mighty  morphin  Power  रेंजरों  : The Movie  .
The second and third seasons of the show drew on footage and elements from  the  Super Sentai series Gosei Sentai Dairanger and Ninja Sentai Kakuranger respectively , though the Zyuranger costumes were  स्टिल   प्रयुक्त  for the five main  रेंजरों  and several regular villains .
तभी  the mecha and  the  Kiba  रेंजर  costume ( worn  by   the  White Ranger ) were  retained   इससे  Dairanger  लिये  the second season  ,  while only the mecha  इससे  Kakuranger were  प्रदर्शित   in  the third  ऋतु  .
However the Kakuranger costumes were later used for  the  title characters of the  mini-series  , Mighty Morphin  एलियन   रेंजरों  .
The series  थी  produced by  mmpr  Productions , distributed  by  Saban Entertainment , and aired  on  Fox Kids  .
The show 's  merchandise  was  उत्पादित  and  वितरित  by Bandai  entertainment  .
In 1996 , the series was rebranded as  the  Power  रेंजरों   मताधिकार   ;  renaming the series every year after , and using costumes  ,  props , and footage from subsequent Super Sentai series , as well as changing the cast and storyline .
While an overarching storyline would continue until  शक्ति  Rangers Lost Galaxy , subsequent series  बाद   mmpr  are not sequels or spin-offs in the  परंपरागत  sense  .
In 2010  ,  a re-version of Mighty  morphin  Power Rangers  ,  with a new  लोगो  , comic book-referenced graphics ,  और   अतिरिक्त  alternative special  प्रभाव  , was broadcast  on   एबीसी  Kids ,  और  Bandai  उत्पादित  brand new toys to  coincide  with the series .
Edgar Allan Poe ( born Edgar  पो  ; January 19 , 1809 –  अक्तूबर  7 ,  1849  ) was an American author  ,   कवि  , editor and  साहित्यिक   आलोचक  , considered part  of  the American Romantic  गति  .
Best known for  उसके  tales  of  mystery  और  the macabre , Poe was  एक  of the  earliest  American practitioners of  the  short story and is  generally  considered the inventor  of   the   जासूस  fiction genre .
He is further credited with contributing  to   the  emerging  विधा  of science  fiction  .
He was the  पहला  well-known American writer  to  try to earn a living through writing alone , resulting in a financially difficult life and career  .
He was born as  एडगर  Poe in Boston  ,   मैसाचुसेट्स  ;  he  was orphaned  यंग  when  उसके  mother died  shortly  after his father abandoned the family  .
पो  was taken in by John and Frances Allan , of Richmond , Virginia , but they never formally  अपनाया  him .
He attended the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of  वर्जिनिया  for one semester but left due to lack of  धन  .
After enlisting in the Army  और  later  failing  as an  अधिकारी   's  cadet at  वेस्ट  Point , Poe  parted   तरीके  with the Allans .
His publishing career began humbly , with an anonymous collection of poems , Tamerlane and Other  कविताएं   (  1827  )  , credited only to ``  a  Bostonian '' .
Poe  switched  his focus to prose  और  spent the next several years working  लिये  literary  जर्नल्स  and periodicals  ,  becoming known for his own  स्टाइल  of literary criticism .
His work forced him to move among several cities , including Baltimore  ,  Philadelphia , and New York City .
in   बाल्टीमोर  in 1835 , he married Virginia Clemm , his 13-year-old cousin .
In January 1845 Poe published his  कविता  , `` The  रेवेन  ``  ,  to instant success .
His wife died of tuberculosis two years after its publication .
He  began  planning to produce his own journal ,  the  Penn ( later renamed  the  Stylus ) , though he died before it could be produced .
On  अक्तूबर  7 ,  1849  , at age 40 , Poe  died   in  Baltimore ; the cause  of  his death is unknown and has been variously attributed to alcohol , brain  जमघट  , cholera ,  दवाएँ  , heart disease , rabies  ,  suicide , tuberculosis , and other agents .
पो  and his works influenced literature  in  the United States and around the world  ,  as well as in specialized fields , such  as  cosmology  और  cryptography .
Poe and his work appear  throughout  popular culture in literature , music ,  films  , and  टेलीविज़न  .
A number of his homes are dedicated museums today  .
The Mystery  लेखक  of America present an annual award known as the Edgar Award for distinguished work in  the  mystery genre  .
Lions are obligate carnivores ; they require  up  to  सात   गामा  ( 15  पाउंड  ) of meat per  दिन  .
A  प्रमुख  component of their  आहार  is the flesh of  विशाल  mammals , like this  अफ़्रीकी  buffalo .
A  carnivore   (  ) meaning 'meat eater ' ( Latin , caro meaning 'meat ' or 'flesh ' and vorare  अर्थ  'to devour '  )  is an organism  कि  derives its energy and nutrient  आवश्यकताएँ  from a diet consisting mainly or  exclusively  of animal  ऊतक  , whether through predation or  scavenging  .
Animals that  निर्भर  solely on animal flesh for their nutrient  आवश्यकताएँ  are  माना  carnivores while those  कि  also consume non-animal food are  माना   carnivores  .
Omnivores  भी  consume both animal and non-animal food , and  अलावा  from the more general definition , there  is   no  clearly defined ratio  of  plant to animal  सामग्री  that  होता   फर्क  a  facultative  carnivore from  an  omnivore .
A  carnivore  that  sits  at  the  top of the  foodchain  is an apex predator .
Plants that capture and digest insects are called carnivorous plants  .
Similarly , fungi that  कैप्चर  microscopic animals are often  पुकारा  carnivorous fungi .
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an international association football competition contested  by  the senior men 's national teams of the members of Fédération  internationale  de Football  संघ   (  FIFA ) , the  खेल   's  global  शासी  body  .
The  चैंपियनशिप  has been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930  ,  except in 1942 and  1946  when it was not held because  of   the  Second World War  .
the  current  champions   हैं   स्पेन  , who won the  2010  tournament .
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues  भीतर  the  मेजबान  nation (  s  ) over a  काल  of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase  ,  which currently takes  प्लेस  over  the  preceding  तीन  years , is used  to  determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation (  s   )  .
The 19 World Cup tournaments  have  been won by eight different  नेशनल   टीमों  .
Brazil have won five times , and they are the only team to have played  in   प्रत्येक  tournament .
The  अन्य  World  कप  winners are Italy , with four  शीर्षक   ;   जर्मनी  , with three titles  ;  Argentina and  inaugural  winners Uruguay , with two titles  प्रत्येक  ; and England , France  ,  and  स्पेन  , with one  शीर्षक   प्रत्येक  .
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the  फाइनल   मैच  of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The next three World Cups will  be  hosted by  ब्राज़ील  in 2014 , Russia in  2018   ,  and  क़तर  in 2022 .
नायक  is  an  American science  fiction  television drama series created by  टिम  Kring that appeared on  एनबीसी  for four  सीज़न  from September 25  ,  2006 through February 8 , 2010  .
The  श्रेणी  tells the  कहानियां  of ordinary people who discover superhuman abilities  ,  and how these  abilities  take  प्रभाव  in  the  characters '  जीवनदान  .
The series emulates the aesthetic style and storytelling  of  American comic books , using  multi-episode  story arcs that build upon a larger , more encompassing  चाप  .
the  series was produced by Tailwind  प्रोडक्शन्स   in  association with Universal Media Studios .
It was filmed primarily  in  Los Angeles , California  .
Four complete seasons aired  ,  ending on February 8 , 2010  .
The critically acclaimed first season had a run of 23 episodes  और  garnered an average of 14.3 million viewers  in  the United  राज्य  , receiving the highest rating for an NBC drama premiere  in   पाँच  years .
The second season of Heroes attracted an average  of  13.1 million viewers  in  the U.S. , and marked NBC 's sole series among  the   शीर्ष  20  क्रमित   कार्यक्रम  in total viewership for the  2007–2008  season .
Heroes  रै   अर्जित  a  क्रमांक  of awards  और   nominations  , including Primetime  एमी  Awards , Golden Globes  ,  People  's   चुनाव   पुरस्कार   और  British Academy Television Awards .
An online extension of the series ,  नायक  360  अनुभव  , later rebranded as Heroes Evolutions , was created to explore the Heroes universe and provides insight into the show 's mythology .
अन्य  official Heroes media include magazines , action figures , tie-in and interactive websites , a mobile game ,  a  novel ,  कपडे  and other merchandise .
In the fall of 2008 , NBC  डिजिटल  Entertainment released a series of online content for the summer , including more original web  सामग्री   ,   बेतार  iTV interactivity , graphic novels available for mobile viewing and webisodes .
NBC announced  नायक  cancellation on May 14 ,  2010  .
Afterward  ,  the network considered making a television special event to  conclude  the series ; however , on September 9 , 2010 , NBC  घोषित  the decision to stop any further development of the  नायक   मताधिकार  .
टिम   क्रिंग  then suggested that the  व्यापक  premise of Heroes storylines allowed for the franchise to return for fans , but he did not specify when or in what media  स्वरूप  .
on   अप्रैल  17  ,  2013 , TV Line reported that  एमएसएन   थी  in talks to  revive   the  series with a new cast .
John Pierpont `` J. P  .  ''
Morgan  (   अप्रैल  17  ,  1837  –  March 31 , 1913 ) was an American financier , banker  ,  philanthropist and art  कलेक्टर  who dominated  कॉरपोरेट  finance  और  industrial consolidation during his time  .
In 1892 Morgan  arranged  the merger  of  Edison General Electric  और  Thomson-Houston Electric  कम्पनी   to  form General Electric .
After  financing  the  सृष्टि  of the Federal Steel Company , he merged in 1901 with the Carnegie Steel Company and several  अन्य  steel and iron businesses ,  सहित  Consolidated Steel and Wire Company owned  by  William  edenborn  ,  to   रूप  the United States Steel Corporation  .
Morgan  died   in  Rome ,  इटली  ,  in  his sleep in 1913  at  the age  of  75 , leaving his fortune and business  to  his  बेटे  , John Pierpont `` Jack '' Morgan , Jr. , and  bequeathing  his mansion and large book collections  to  The Morgan Library & Museum in New York .
At the height of Morgan 's career during the  जल्दी  1900s  ,  he and his  साझेदार   था  financial  निवेश  in many large corporations and were  अभियुक्त  by  आलोचकों  of controlling the nation 's high finance .
He directed the  बैंकिंग  coalition  कि  stopped the  दहशत   of  1907 .
he  was the leading financier of the  प्रगतिशील  Era , and his dedication to efficiency and modernization helped transform American  कारोबार  .
This  is   a  list of episodes  of  the television series .
The episodes were directed by Shigeru  ueda   और   उत्पादित   by  the  yggdrasil  Executive Committee which included Xebec  और  Genco  .
The plot of  the  episodes is set in Tokyo and  घूमती   around  Rin Asōgi  ,  an immortal private investigator , as she explores the secrets  of  modern and near-future world  और  the  अलौकिक   कार्यक्रम  that surround  the   fictional  society of immortals like herself .
There are large time  गैप  in the internal chronology between the first five episodes , ranging from one  to  thirty  सालो  .
The six episodes were broadcast monthly  on  AT-X channel in Japan , between February 3  और  July 6  ,   2008  .
Each episode is 45 minutes long .
Two pieces  of  theme music  हैं  used  लिये  the  एपीसोड   :  the opening  थीम  ``  alsatia  '' and the  समाप्ति  theme  ``  Cause Disarray '' .
Both were composed and  performed   by  the Japanese metal band Galneryus .
the  series was produced to commemorate the tenth  वर्षगांठ   of  the AT-X network it originally  aired   on  .
aerial  photo of  fletc  , where US digital forensics  मानकों  were  विकसित  in the 1980s and '90s
डिजिटल  forensics ( sometimes known  as  digital forensic science ) is  a  branch of forensic science encompassing the recovery and investigation of material found in digital devices ,  प्रायः   in  relation to computer crime .
The term digital  forensics  was originally used as a synonym for  कंप्यूटर  forensics but has expanded  to   कवर  investigation of all devices  सक्षम  of storing  डिजिटल  data .
With roots in  the  personal  कम्प्यूटिंग  revolution of the late 1970s and early '80s  ,  the  अनुशासन  evolved  in   a  haphazard manner  दौरान  the 1990s , and it was  नहीं   जबतक  the early 21st century  कि  national policies emerged .
Digital forensics  investigations  have a  किस्में  of applications .
The  सबसे  common is to support or  खण्डन   a  hypothesis before criminal  or  civil ( as  भाग  of  the  electronic discovery process ) courts .
Forensics may also  विशेषता  in  the  private sector ;  ऐसे  as during  आतंरिक  corporate investigations or intrusion investigation ( a specialist probe into  the   प्रकृति  and extent of an  अनधिकृत  network intrusion ) .
The technical aspect  of  an investigation is divided into several  sub-branches  , relating to  the  type  of  digital devices involved  ;  computer forensics ,  संजाल   forensics  ,  forensic  data analysis and mobile device forensics .
The  ठेठ  forensic process encompasses  the   seizure  , forensic  इमेजिंग  ( acquisition ) and analysis  of  digital media and the production of a report  into  collected evidence .
As well as identifying direct evidence of a crime , digital forensics can be used  to   विशेषता  evidence to specific suspects ,  confirm   alibis  or  कथन  , determine intent  ,  identify sources ( for example , in  कापीराइट  cases )  ,  or authenticate documents .
Investigations are much broader in  पैमाना  than other areas of forensic analysis ( where  the  usual  उद्देश्य  is to provide answers to  a  series of simpler questions ) often involving complex time-lines  or  hypotheses .
A comparison  of  the chromaticities enclosed by some color spaces  .
A color model is an abstract mathematical model describing the  रास्ता  colors can be represented as tuples of numbers , typically as three or four  मान  or color components ( e.g  .  RGB and CMYK are  रंग  models ) .
However ,  a   रंग  model with no associated  मानचित्रण  function to an absolute color space is a more  or   कम  arbitrary  रंग  system with  no   कनेक्शन  to any  globally  understood system  of   रंग  interpretation .
Adding a certain  मानचित्रण  function between  the  color model and a certain reference color space results in  a  definite `` footprint '' within the reference  रंग   स्पेस  .
This `` footprint '' is  ज्ञात  as a  gamut  , and , in combination  साथ  the color model , defines a new color  स्पेस  .
For example , Adobe RGB  और   srgb   हैं  two different absolute color  स्पेसेस  , both  आधारित  on the RGB model .
in  the most generic sense  of  the definition above , color  स्पेसेस   can  be  पारिभाषित   बगैर  the  उपयोग  of  a  color model .
These spaces , such as Pantone , are in effect  a  given set of names or  संख्याएँ  which are  पारिभाषित  by the existence of a  सम्बन्धित  set of physical color swatches  .
This article focuses on the mathematical model concept .
Labor Day is  an  American federal holiday observed on the  पहला  Monday in September , that celebrates the economic  और  social contributions of  मजदूर  .
Life insurance is a contract between an insured ( insurance  नीति  holder  )  and an insurer , where the insurer promises to pay a designated beneficiary  a  sum of money ( the `` benefits '' ) upon  the  death of the insured person .
Depending  on  the contract  ,   अन्य  events such as terminal illness or  नाजुक   बीमारी  may also  ट्रिगर   भुगतान   .
The policy holder typically  pays   a  premium  ,  either  regularly  or as a lump sum .
अन्य  expenses  (  such as funeral  खर्च  ) are also sometimes  शामिल  in the  लाभ  .
जीवन   नीतियों  are legal contracts and the terms of  the   अनुबंध  describe the limitations of the  insured  events .
Specific exclusions are  प्रायः   लिखा  into  the   अनुबंध  to  सीमा   the  liability of the insurer ; common examples are claims  relating  to suicide , fraud ,  युद्ध  , riot and civil  commotion  .
Life-based  अनुबंध   tend  to fall into two major  categories:
Protection policies – designed to  provide  a benefit in  the  event of specified event , typically a lump sum  भुगतान  .
A common  रूप   of  this design  is   पद  insurance .
Investment policies – where the main  उद्देश्य  is to  सुकर  the growth of capital by regular or single premiums .
Common forms ( in the US ) are whole life , universal  जीवन  and variable life policies .
{  {  Infobox Holiday
Chinese New Year
9 –  12  February ( Vietnam )
Mitzi Gaynor Donahue ( born May 2 , 1962  in  Yorba Linda , Orange County , California ) is  an  American actress  ,   भी  credited and more popularly known as  mitzi  Kapture  .
Kapture began her career in  films  , most of which were  नहीं  huge  वाणिज्यिक  successes  .
वो  went on to make a few television guest appearances ( MacGyver , 1st & Ten , and as a contestant on The $ 100,000 Pyramid ) before she gained international  एक्सपोज़र  with her first major television role as Sergeant  रीता  Lee Lance  in   the  television series Silk  stalkings  .
Kapture 's role  as  Rita  ,  the other half of the two `` Sams '' for almost 5 years , cemented her popularity .
Paired with  रोब  Estes who  निभाई  Sergeant Chris Lorenzo ,  kapture   gained   वैश्विक  recognition along with her costar since the show  थी   ब्रॉडकास्ट   in  several countries .
Sergeant  तलवार  eventually became Lieutenant Lance by the time Kapture left the series in 1995 to have her first child Madison .
दौरान   उसके  time with the  श्रेणी  , Kapture briefly sat in the  निदेशक   's  chair  ,  for two  एपीसोड  .
She  थी   interviewed  for  the   रेशा   stalkings   ऋतु  1 DVD which was distributed by Anchor Bay  entertainment  and released in September 2004  .
After  a  short hiatus from the screen following her exit from Silk Stalkings , Kapture returned in 1997 to the small screen and USA Network .
She played lead roles in two  यूएसए   तस्वीरें  Originals  telemovies   ,  Perfect Crime ( based on a true story ,  भी  called Hide  और  Seek  :  The  जोआन  Jensen Story ) , which  भी   स्ट्रक्चर  Jasmine Guy and  उसके   अंगरक्षक  .
She later starred in  a  few other independent film projects  और  theatre productions and had several television guest appearances .
Kapture also  था  a recurring role on  बेवाच  as Alexis  ryker   .
वो  played Anita Hodges  on  The Young and the Restless from 2002 through 2004  ,   जहाँ   वो   थी   credited  as Mitzi  kapture  Donahue , and  स्ट्रक्चर  in the made-for-TV movie Night of Terror which premiered March 26 , 2006 on Lifetime  संजाल  .
Her latest is a supporting role in God  's  Ears  ,  released  in  2007 .
kapture  is the  आधिकारिक  celebrity spokesperson for the Xeroderma Pigmentosum Society  .
the  Xbox 360 is the second video game console developed by and produced for Microsoft and the successor to the Xbox .
The  एक्सबॉक्स   360  competes  साथ  Sony 's PlayStation 3 and  निन्टेंडो  's Wii  as  part of the  सातवाँ  generation of video game consoles .
As  of  September 30 , 2012 , 70  लाख  Xbox 360 consoles have been  बेची  worldwide .
The Xbox  360  was  officially  unveiled  on  MTV on May  12  ,  2005  , with  विस्तृत  launch and game information divulged later that month at the Electronic Entertainment Expo ( E3 ) .
The console  बेची  out  completely  upon release in all regions except  in  Japan .
Several major features  of   the  Xbox 360 are its  एकीकृत  Xbox Live  सेवा   कि  allows players to compete  ऑनलाइन  ; download arcade games ,  खेल  demos , trailers , TV  shows  , music and movies ; and its Windows Media  बीच   मल्टीमीडिया   सामर्थ्य  .
The Xbox Live also  offers   अभिगम  to various ( often region-specific )  third-party  media streaming applications .
At their E3 presentation on June  14   ,  2010 , Microsoft  घोषित  a redesigned Xbox 360 that would ship on the  वही  day  .
The redesigned console is  slimmer  than the  पिछला   एक्सबॉक्स   360  model and features integrated 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi , TOSLINK  s/pdif   ऑप्टिकल  audio output , five  usb  2.0 ports ( compared to the three from  पुरानी  versions ) and a special AUX port .
पुरानी  models of  the   एक्सबॉक्स  360  have   चूंकि  been discontinued .
The first new console to be released features a 250 GB hard  ड्राइव  , while a later , less expensive SKU features  4   gb  internal storage .
backpack  may also refer to  a  2001  अनोखा   by   एमिली  Barr
a  modern  backpack
Swiss army backpack ca . 1960
Integrated  तुमको  frame .
A backpack (  भी  called rucksack , knapsack , packsack , pack  )   is  ,  in  its simplest form , a  cloth  sack carried  on  one 's  वापस   और   secured  with two straps that go over the shoulders , but there can be exceptions  .
Lightweight  प्रकार  of backpacks are sometimes worn on only  एक   कंधे  strap .
Backpacks  हैं  often preferred to handbags for carrying heavy loads or  carrying  any sort of equipment  ,   क्युकी  of the  सीमित  capacity to carry heavy weights for long periods of  समय  in  the   हैंड्स   .
Large backpacks ,  प्रयुक्त  to carry loads over  10   kg  ( 22 lbs ) , usually offload the largest part ( up  to  about  90   %  )  of   उनके  weight onto padded hip belts , leaving the shoulder straps  मुख्यतः  for  stabilising  the load  .
This improves the potential to carry heavy loads  ,   as  the hips are  stronger  than the shoulders , and also increases agility  और  balance , since the load rides nearer the wearer 's own center  of  mass .
In ancient  टाइम्स  , the backpack was used as a means to  carry  the hunter 's larger game and other types of prey and as a way of easier transport for  अन्य  materials  .
In  the  cases of larger hunts , the hunters would  dismember  their prey and  वितरित  the  टुकड़े  of the animal around  ,  each one packing the  मांस  into many wrappings and then  into  bags which they placed on to their backs .
The bag  itself  was made  up  of  अलग  animal hide and skin ( depending on what  sorts  of  पशु   यहूद  in the area )  और  sewn  साथ  by  the  intestines of said animals , which were woven together  tightly  to make a sturdy  thread-like  material  .
Mexico ( ;  ;  ) , officially the  संयुक्त  Mexican States  (  ) , is  a  federal constitutional republic in North America  .
It is bordered on the north by the  संयुक्त  States ; on the south  और   वेस्ट  by the Pacific Ocean ; on the southeast by Guatemala , Belize , and the Caribbean Sea  ;  and  on  the east by the Gulf of Mexico .
Covering almost two million square kilometres ( over  760,000  sq mi ) , Mexico is the fifth largest country in the Americas by  कुल   क्षेत्रफल  and the  13th   largest  independent nation in the world .
With an estimated  जनसांख्यिकी  of  over   113  million , it is the world 's eleventh most populous  देश  and the most populous Spanish-speaking country .
Mexico is a federation comprising thirty-one states and a Federal District ,  the  capital city .
In pre-Columbian Mexico many cultures  matured  into  उन्नत  civilizations such  as  the Olmec , the Toltec , the Teotihuacan ,  the  Zapotec , the Maya  और   the  Aztec before first contact with Europeans .
In 1521 ,  स्पेन  conquered and colonized the territory  इससे  its base in México-Tenochtitlan , which was administered as  the  Viceroyalty of  नई  Spain  .
इस  territory would eventually  become   मैक्सिको  following recognition of the colony 's  स्वतंत्रता  in  1821  .
The  post-independence  period was  characterized  by economic instability , the Mexican-American War and territorial cession to the  संयुक्त  States , a civil war ,  दो   empires   और  a domestic dictatorship .
The latter  led  to the Mexican Revolution in  1910  ,  जिससे  culminated with  the  promulgation  of   the  1917  संविधान  and the emergence of the country 's current political system .
Elections held in July 2000  चिह्नित  the  पहला  time that an opposition party won the presidency from the Institutional Revolutionary Party .
चूंकि  2006 the country has been in  the  midst of a  ड्रग  war  जिससे   रै  caused 60,000 deaths .
मैक्सिको  has one of the  संसार  's largest economies  ,   और  is considered both a regional power and middle power .
in  addition  ,   मैक्सिको  was the first Latin American member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD ( since  1994  ) , and  माना  an upper-middle income  देश   by  the World Bank .
Mexico is considered a  newly  industrialized country and an emerging power  .
It has the fourteenth largest nominal GDP and the  eleventh  largest GDP by purchasing power parity .
the   अर्थव्यवस्था  is strongly linked to those of its  उत्तर  American Free  व्यापार   अनुबंध  ( NAFTA ) partners , especially the United States of America .
Mexico ranks sixth in the world and first  in  the Americas by number of  युनेस्को  World Heritage  साइट  with 31 ,  और   in   2007  was the tenth most visited  देश  in the world with  21.4  million international arrivals  प्रति  year  .
Babe  रुथ  holds  the  MLB career  slugging  percentage record (  .690  ) .
In baseball statistics ,  slugging   प्रतिशत  ( abbreviated SLG  )  is a popular measure  of  the power of a hitter .
It is calculated as total  bases  divided by  at  bats :
where AB is the  क्रमांक  of at-bats for a given player , and 1B , 2B  ,  3B , and HR are  the  number of singles , doubles , triples , and home runs , respectively .
Walks are specifically excluded from this calculation .
For example  ,  in 1920 , Babe Ruth played his first season for the New York Yankees  .
In  458  at  bats   ,  Ruth had 172 hits , comprising 73 singles  ,  36 doubles , 9 triples , and 54 home  रनों  , which brings the total base count  to  ( 73 ×  1  ) + ( 36 × 2 ) +  (  9 × 3 )  +  (  54  ×  4  )  =  388 .
His total number of bases  (   388  )  विभाजित  by his total at-bats ( 458 ) is  .847  , his  slugging  percentage for the season .
The next  साल  he slugged .846 , and these records  गई  unbroken until 2001  ,  when Barry  bonds  achieved  411   bases  in 476  at-bats  , bringing his slugging percentage to .863 , unmatched  चूंकि  .
is   a  role-playing video game developed and  प्रकाशित   by  Square ( now Square Enix  )  for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in  1995  .
Chrono Trigger 's  विकास  team included three designers that Square dubbed the  ``   सपना   टोली   ''  : Hironobu Sakaguchi , the creator  of  Square 's Final Fantasy  श्रेणी  ;  yuji  Horii , a  freelance  designer and creator of  एनिक्स  's popular  ड्रैगन   क्वेस्ट  series ; and Akira  toriyama   ,  a freelance manga artist  famed  for his work with  ड्रैगन  Quest and Dragon Ball .
Kazuhiko Aoki produced the game , Masato  काटो   लिखा  most of the  प्लाट   ,   जबकि  composer Yasunori Mitsuda scored most of the game before falling ill and deferring  बाकी  tracks to  फाइनल  Fantasy composer Nobuo  uematsu  .
The game 's story follows a group of adventurers who travel through time to prevent a  वैश्विक  catastrophe .
Square re-released  a  ported version  by  Tose in Japan  लिये  Sony 's PlayStation in 1999 , later repackaged with a Final Fantasy  iv   बंदरगाहों  as Final  काल्पनिक  Chronicles in 2001 for the North American market .
A slightly enhanced Chrono Trigger was released for  the   निन्टेंडो  DS on November  25  , 2008 , in  उत्तर   अमेरिका  and Japan , and  गई  on sale in Australia on February 3 ,  2009  and in Europe on February 6 , 2009  .
The game was never released  in  PAL territories before the Nintendo DS version  .
Chrono Trigger was a critical and  वाणिज्यिक   कामयाबी  upon release and is considered today  to  be one  of  the greatest video games of all  समय  .
Nintendo  शक्ति   पत्रिका  described aspects of Chrono  ट्रिगर  as revolutionary , including  इसके  multiple endings  ,  plot-related  sidequests  focusing on  अक्षर  development  ,  unique battle  प्रणाली   ,  and detailed graphics  .
Chrono Trigger  थी  the third best-selling game of 1995 , and the game 's SNES and PlayStation iterations have shipped 2.65 million copies  as  of March 2003 .
The version for the Nintendo DS sold 790,000  नक़ल  as of March 2009 .
Chrono Trigger was also ported to  मोबाईल   फोन  , Virtual Console , the PlayStation Network  (  only in  the  USA ) , iOS devices ,  और  Android devices .
Goat cheese
बकरी   चीज  , or chèvre ( from the French word for goat ) , is cheese made out of  the  milk of  बकरियों  .
Hyperthermia is elevated body temperature due to failed thermoregulation  कि  occurs when a body produces  or   absorbs  more  ऊष्मा  than it dissipates .
Extreme temperature elevation then becomes  a  medical  आपात  requiring  तात्कालिक  treatment to prevent disability or death  .
The most common  कल्याणकारी  include heat stroke and adverse reactions to drugs .
the  former is an  अधि   तापमान  elevation caused by exposure to excessive heat , or combination  of   ऊष्मा  and humidity , that overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms  .
the   latter  is  a  relatively rare side effect of many drugs , particularly those that affect the central nervous system .
Malignant  अतिताप  is  a  rare complication of  कुछ  types of general anesthesia .
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical devices  और  may be used in the treatment  of  some kinds  of  cancer and  अन्य  conditions , most commonly in conjunction with radiotherapy  .
Hyperthermia  differs  from fever in that  the  body 's temperature  नियत  point  remains  unchanged .
the   विपरीत  is hypothermia  ,   जिससे  occurs when the  तापमान  drops below that required to maintain normal metabolism  .
Belize , is a country located on the  northeastern  coast of Central America .
It is the  तभी  country in the area where English is the official language  ,  although Kriol  और  Spanish  हैं  more commonly spoken .
बेलीज़  is bordered on the north by Mexico  ,  to the south and west by Guatemala  और  to the east by the Caribbean Sea .
इसके  mainland is  परिचय  long and wide .
With of land and a population  of  only 312,698 inhabitants (  2010  census ) , Belize  possesses  the lowest  जनसांख्यिकी  density  in  Central America .
The country 's population  विकास  rate of 3.15 % ( 2012  est  . ) is the  दूसरी  highest in the region and one of  the  highest  in  the  पश्चिमी  hemisphere  .
Belize 's abundance  of  terrestrial and marine  प्रजाति   ,  and its diversity  of  ecosystems  दे   it  a key place within the  globally  significant Mesoamerican Biological Corridor .
Belize has a diverse society , comprising many cultures and languages .
it  is the only nation in the region  साथ  a British  औपनिवेशिक   विरासत  ,  लकिन  as a  भाग  of the Western Caribbean  मण्डल   ,  it also  साझा  a common heritage with the fellow Anglophone Caribbean  देशों  .
In general , Belize is considered to be  a  Central  अमरीकी  and  caribbean  nation  साथ  strong ties to both the  caribbean  and Latin America .
बेलीज़   is  a member of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ) ,  the  Community of Latin American  और  Caribbean States ( CELAC )  ,  and  सेंट्रल  American Integration System ( SICA ) .
Belize is known  लिये  its September  जश्न  ,  और  is the birthplace of chewing gum and Punta Rock .
The `` Betsy Ross  ''  flag
A `` Betsy Ross '' flag flying outside San Francisco  नगर  Hall
The  बेट्सी   रॉस  flag is an early  डिज़ाइन  of the flag  of  the  संयुक्त  States , popularly attributed to Betsy Ross , using the common motifs of  प्रत्यावर्ती  red-and-white striped field with  five-pointed   सितारों  in  a   ब्लू  canton  .
The flag was designed during  the   अमरीकी  Revolution and features  13   सितारों  to represent the  असली  13 colonies .
the  distinctive  विशेषता  of the Ross flag is the arrangement of the stars in a  वृत्त  .
Although the  बेट्सी  Ross  स्टोरी  is accepted by most Americans , some flag  इतिहासकारों  and  revisionists  do not accept the  बेट्सी  Ross design as the first American flag .
According to the traditional  खाता  , the  असली  flag was made in June 1776 , when a small committee—including George Washington , Robert  मॉरिस  and relative George Ross  —visited  Betsy and discussed the need for  a  new American flag  .
Betsy accepted the  जॉब  to  manufacture  the flag , altering the committee 's design by replacing the six-pointed stars with five-pointed stars .
जबकि  the Betsy  रॉस  legend is  questionable  , the flag design is known to  have  been in  उपयोग  by  1777  ; Alfred B . Street described it at  the  surrender  of   सामान्य  Burgoyne and understood the circle of  सितारों   to  represent equality among the American states .
it  is one of  the  oldest versions of  u.S.  flags known  to   मौजूद  ; while it is  नहीं   the  oldest  surviving   ध्वज  artifact in cloth form , its likeness  appears   on   पुरानी  physical relics , namely  ,   the   समकालीन  battlefield  paintings  by  जॉन   trumbull  and  चार्ल्स  Willson Peale .
They  depict  the circular star arrangement being flown from ship masts  और  many other places  ,  and thus provide the first  ज्ञात  historical documentation of  the  flag 's appearance .
The seal of the U.S. Department of  दिग्गजों  Affairs  उपयोग  the Betsy Ross flag to represent service to all veterans from the American Revolution to the present day .
The Betsy Ross design  of  13-star US flags has  महरूम  featured in many popular  artworks  (  sometimes  inaccurately  ,  as  in  Washington Crossing the Delaware )  और  films  ,   ऐसे  as the 1960 version  of  Pollyanna .
The flag continues to  be   एक  of the most popular symbols  of  the American Revolution .
A purr is a  ध्वनि  made by all species of felids and is a  भाग  of cat communication  .
it   varies  between cats  (   लिये  example by  loudness  and tone ) , and  इससे   प्रजाति  to  प्रजाति  ,  लकिन   can  be characterized as a tonal buzzing .
The term  ``  purring  ''  has been  प्रयुक्त  liberally in  साहित्य  , and it has been  claimed   कि  viverrids  (  civet  ,  mongoose , genet  )  ,  bears  , badgers ,  hyaenas  (  et  cetera )  purr  .
Other animals that  have   महरूम  said to purr are rabbits , squirrels , guinea pigs , tapirs , ring-tailed lemurs , elephants ,  raccoons  and gorillas while eating .
However  ,  using  a  strict definition of purring that continuous sound production must alternate between pulmonic egressive and ingressive airstream (  और  usually go on for minutes ) , Peters ( 2002  )  , in an exhaustive review of the  वैज्ञानिक  literature , reached the conclusion that until then only ‘purring  cats’  (  फ़ेलिडाए   )  and  दो  species  of   genets   ,   genetta  tigrina , and most likely also Genetta genetta , had been documented to  purr  .
The  platypus  ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus )  is  a  semiaquatic  mammal endemic to eastern Australia  ,   सहित  Tasmania .
Together  साथ  the four species of echidna , it is  एक  of the  पाँच  extant species of  monotremes  , the only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving birth .
it  is  the  sole living representative of its family  (  Ornithorhynchidae  )  and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ) , though a number of related species have been found  in  the fossil record .
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying ,  बतख  -billed , beaver -tailed , otter -footed mammal baffled  यूरोपीय   naturalists  when  वे  first  encountered  it , with some considering  it  an elaborate fraud .
It is one  of  the few  विषैला   स्तनधारियों   ,   the  male platypus having a spur  on  the hind  पैर  that delivers a  venom  capable  of  causing severe pain  to  humans .
The unique features of the platypus  मेक   it   an  important subject in  the   पढ़ाई  of  विकासवादी  biology  और  a recognisable  और   iconic  symbol of Australia ; it has appeared  as  a mascot at  नेशनल  events and is featured on the  रिवर्स  of its  20-cent   सिक्का  .
the  platypus is the animal emblem of the state  of   नई  South  वेल्स  .
Until the early 20th century  ,  it was hunted for its fur  ,  but it is now  सुरक्षित  throughout its range  .
Although captive breeding programmes have had  तभी   सीमित   कामयाबी   और  the platypus  is  vulnerable to  the   प्रभाव  of pollution ,  it  is  नहीं  under any  तात्कालिक  threat  .
st.  Elizabeth  is  a village in Miller County , Missouri ,  संयुक्त  States  .
The population was 336 at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
Wilton is a census-designated place ( CDP ) in Sacramento County , California , United States .
It is  भाग  of the Sacramento – Arden-Arcade – Roseville Metropolitan  सांख्यिकीय   क्षेत्रफल  .
the  population was 5,363 at the 2010 census , up from 4,551 at the 2000 census .
In human-computer interaction , cut and paste and copy and  paste  are related commands that offer a user-interface  बातचीत  technique for transferring text ,  आंकड़ा  , files  or  objects  इससे  a source to a destination .
Most ubiquitously ,  उपयोक्ता  require the ability to cut  और   paste   भाग  of plain text .
The cut command removes  the  selected data from its original position , while the  नक़ल   कमांड  creates  a  duplicate ; in both cases the selected  आंकड़ा   is  placed in a clipboard .
The data in the clipboard is later inserted in the position where  the  paste command is issued .
The command names are an  इंटरफ़ेस  metaphor based on the physical procedure used in manuscript editing to create  a  page  लेआउट   .
इस  interaction technique has  बंद  associations with  सम्बन्धित  techniques in graphical user  अंतरफलक  that use pointing  डिवाइस  such  as   a   कंप्यूटर  mouse ( by  खीचें  and drop ,  लिये  example  )  .
Economic order quantity is the order  मात्रा   कि   minimizes  total inventory holding costs and  ordering  costs .
It is one of  the   oldest   शास्त्रीय  production scheduling models .
The  फ्रेमवर्क  used to determine this order quantity is also known as Barabas EOQ Model or Barabas  सूत्र   .
The model was  विकसित   by  Ford W. Harris in 1913 ,  लकिन  R. H. Wilson ,  a  consultant  जो  applied it extensively ,  is  given  क्रेडिट  for his in-depth  विश्लेषण  .
Stephen `` Stevie  ''  Ray Vaughan ( October  3  , 1954 – August  27  , 1990 )  थी  an American  guitarist  , singer-songwriter , and record producer .
प्रायः  referred to  by  his initials SRV  ,  Vaughan is best known as  a  founding member and leader of Double Trouble .
साथ  with  वादक  Chris Layton and bassist  टॉमी   शैनन   ,  they ignited the blues revival  of  the 1980s  .
With a career spanning seven years ,  vaughan   और  Double Trouble consistently sold out concerts  जबकि   उनके   एल्बम  frequently went gold .
He was born and raised in Dallas , Texas , and for a short period of time  जिया   in  Graham , Texas .
As the younger brother  of  Jimmie Vaughan  ,  Vaughan  प्रारंभ  playing  the  guitar at age  सात  and formed several bands that occasionally performed  in  local nightclubs .
At age 17  ,  he  dropped  out of  ऊँची  school  और  moved to  ऑस्टिन  to further pursue his musical career , joining groups such as Krackerjack ,  the  Nightcrawlers ,  और  the Cobras .
In 1977 , he formed Triple Threat Revue  ,  a  बैंड  that eventually  विकसित  into  दोगुना  Trouble  और  regularly performed  around  Austin  .
in  1982 , Vaughan and  दोगुना  Trouble  performed   at  the Montreux Jazz Festival  in  Switzerland ,  catching  the attention of musicians David  बोवी  and Jackson  browne  .
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on his upcoming  स्टुडियो  album Let  's   नृत्य  ,  जबकि  Browne offered the band free use of  उसके  personal  स्टुडियो  in  लॉस  Angeles to record  an  album  .
In March 1983  ,  Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records  by  veteran record  निर्माता  John Hammond Sr. and released their debut album ,  टेक्सास  Flood in June of that year  .
After  कामयाब  touring , the group released  the  albums , Could n't Stand the Weather ( 1984 )  और  Soul  to   आत्मा  ( 1985  )  , the  latter  of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans .
Although his career had progressed  सफलतापूर्वक  , Vaughan  checked  into a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta ,  जॉर्जिया  to give up a cocaine and alcohol habit  और  returned to touring  साथ  the  बैंड  .
In June  1989  , In Step was released  और  earned them a Grammy  पुरस्कार  for Best Contemporary Blues Performance .
On  अगस्त   27  , 1990 , Vaughan was killed in a helicopter crash following  a  performance in East Troy , Wisconsin .
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense style was derived from a variety of  musical   जाति  .
He was influenced  by  blues musicians including Albert King , Freddie King ,  ओटिस  Rush , and Muddy Waters  ,  and  चट्टान  guitarists  ऐसे  as Jimi  हेंड्रिक्स  and Lonnie Mack  .
His guitar playing reflected the classic blues and  pentatonic   तराजू  .
he  has received wide critical recognition for his guitar playing , ranking  at  # 6 on Rolling Stones  सूची  of `` 100  महानतम  Guitarists '' in  2011  .
He  थी  posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue was erected in  ऑस्टिन   's  Auditorium Shores park  .
Stevie Ray  vaughan  is widely considered  to  be one of the greatest musicians to  आइये  from the state of  टेक्सास  .
The Las  वेगास  Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola  is   a  carbonated soft drink sold in stores , restaurants , and vending machines in  प्रत्येक  country except Cuba  और   उत्तर  Korea  .
It is produced by  the  Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta , Georgia ,  और  is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in  the   संयुक्त  States since  कूच  27 ,  1944  ) .
Originally  intended  as a  पेटेंट  medicine when it was  invented  in the  लेट   19th  century by John Pemberton ,  coca-cola  was bought out  by  businessman Asa Griggs Candler , whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the  संसार  soft-drink market throughout the 20th  सदी   .
The company produces concentrate , which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola  bottlers  throughout the world .
the  bottlers  ,  who hold territorially  विशेष   अनुबंध  with  the  company , produce finished product in cans and bottles from the concentrate  in  combination with filtered water and sweeteners  .
The bottlers then  बेचें  , distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola  उद्यमों  ,  जिससे  is the  largest  single Coca-Cola bottler  in  North America  और  western  यूरोपीय   .
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for  सोडा  fountains to major restaurants  और   खाना  service distributors .
The Coca-Cola  कम्पनी  has ,  on   अवसर  , introduced other  कोला  drinks under the Coke brand name .
The most  आम  of these is Diet Coke  ,   साथ  others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola , Diet Coke Caffeine-Free , Coca-Cola Cherry  ,  Coca-Cola Zero , Coca-Cola Vanilla , and special versions with lemon , lime or coffee  .
Based  on  Interbrand 's best  वैश्विक  brand 2011 ,  coca-cola  was  the  world 's most  मूल्यवान  brand .
Barry  लुई   larkin   (   born  April 28 , 1964 )  is   a  retired Major  लीग   बेसबॉल  player .
Larkin played shortstop for the  सिनसिनाटी  Reds  इससे  1986 to  2004   और  was one  of  the pivotal players on the 1990  लाल  ' World Series championship team .
Larkin was elected  to  the National Baseball Hall  of  Fame in  जनवरी   2012  and  थी  inducted on  जुलाई  22 .
Larkin is considered one of  the   शीर्ष  players of his  era  , winning nine Silver Slugger awards  और  three Gold  दस्ताने  awards  .
He was selected to the  प्रमुख   लीग   all-star  Game twelve times , and was elected the 1995 National  लीग  Most  मूल्यवान   खिलाड़ी  .
Brasília ( ) is the federal capital of Brazil and the seat of government of the Federal  ज़िला  .
Administratively , the city is located in the  संघीय   ज़िला  which is in the Central-West Region .
physically  , it is located in the Brazilian Highlands .
It has  a  population of about 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996  in   the  metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  ) as  of  the 2008 IBGE  अनुमान  , making it the  चौथी  largest city in Brazil .
however  , as  a  metropolitan area ,  it  ranks  निम्नतर  at  छठे  in population .
Brasília is the  largest  city in  the  world that did not exist at the  शुरूआत  of the 20th  सदी   .
Brasília has the fifth largest GDP among Latin American  शहरों  and the third in  ब्राज़ील  .
At around  r   $  62,000 Brazilian  reais  ( equal to approximately $ 30,900 US dollars or €23,000 euros ) , the city 's per capita income  is  the  उच्चतम  among Brazil 's  largest  cities .
As  the  national capital , Brasília is the seat  of  all three branches  of  the  संघीय  government  of  Brazil  .
The  नगर  also hosts  the  headquarters of many Brazilian companies .
Planning policies such as the location of residential  इमारतें  around expansive urban areas , as well as  भवन  the city  around  large avenues and  dividing  it into sectors , have sparked a debate and  प्रतिबिंब  on life in big cities in the 20th  सदी  .
The city 's  डिज़ाइन  divides it into numbered blocks  as  well as sectors for specified activities , such as  the   होटल  Sector  ,  the Banking Sector or the Embassy Sector  .
Brasília hosts 124 foreign embassies  .
The city was planned and developed in  1956  with Lúcio Costa  as   the   प्रिंसिपल  urban  प्लानर  ,  ऑस्कर  Niemeyer  as  the principal  वास्तु  and  रॉबर्टो  Burle  मार्क्स  as the  लैंडस्केप   पंक्तियां  .
Brasilia is  in  the Unesco  's  World Hertitage  सूची  due  to  its architecture  .
On April  22  , 1960  ,  it  formally  became Brazil 's national capital .
Viewed from above , the  प्रमुख  portion  of  the city resembles  an  airplane or a  तितली  .
The city  is  commonly referred to  as   पूंजी  Federal , or simply BSB .
Residents of Brasília are  ज्ञात  as  brasilienses  or candangos (  the  latter referring to those not born in the city but who migrated there after it was established ) .
in  local usage ,  the  word ``  brasília  ''  प्रायः   refers  only to the First Administrative Region (  ra  I ) within  the  Federal District ( Distrito Federal ) , where  the   सबसे  important  सरकारी  buildings  हैं  located .
Brasília  रै  a unique status in Brazil ,  as  it is an administrative  प्रभाग  rather than  a  legal  नगरपालिका   जैसे  nearly all cities in Brazil .
Nationally , the term is almost always used synonymously with the  संघीय   ज़िला  , which constitutes an indivisible Federative  ईकाई  ,  analogous   to  a state .
Several `` satellite cities  ''   मौजूद  which are  भी   भाग  of the Federal District .
Brasília  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport  is  the main airport  in  Brasília , connecting the  पूंजी  to all major Brazilian cities and many international destinations  .
It is the third  सबसे  important airport in  ब्राज़ील  , in terms of passengers  और  aircraft  आंदोलनों   .
personifications  of Germany , France  ,  Russia , Austria-Hungary  ,   और  the  संयुक्त   किंगडम  attempting to keep  the   ढक्कन  on the simmering cauldron  of  imperialist and nationalist tensions in the Balkans to prevent a general European war .
They were successful in  1912  and 1913  लकिन  did not succeed  in  in 1914 .
The causes of World War I ,  जिससे  began  in  central Europe in late July 1914 and finished in 1918  ,   शामिल  many  कारकों  , such as  the  conflicts and  दुश्मनी  of the four decades leading up to the war .
Militarism , alliances , imperialism , and nationalism played major roles in the conflict as  खूब  .
The immediate origins of the war ,  however  , lay  in   the  decisions taken by  कूटनीतिज्ञों  and generals during the Crisis of 1914 , casus belli  लिये  which  थी  the  हत्या   of  Archduke Franz Ferdinand ( the Archduke of Austria Hungary )  और  his wife Sophie  by  Gavrilo Princip , an irredentist Serb .
The crisis  आए  after a long and difficult series of diplomatic clashes between  the  Great Powers (  इटली  , France , Germany , the  अंग्रेजों  Empire  ,   the  Austria-Hungarian  साम्राज्य  and Russia  )  over European and colonial  मुद्दे  in  the  decade  पहले   1914  that had  बाएँ  tensions high .
in   फेरे  these  राजनयिक  clashes can be traced  to  changes  in  the balance of power in Europe since 1867 .
The more immediate cause  लिये  the war was  तनाव  over territory in  the  Balkans .
Austria-Hungary competed  साथ  Serbia  और  Russia for territory and influence in the  प्रदेश  and they pulled the rest of the Great Powers into the conflict through their various  alliances  and treaties .
Although  the  chain of events unleashed by the assassination triggered the war , the war 's origins go deeper  ,  involving national politics ,  संस्कृतियों  , economics  ,  and a complex web of alliances and counterbalances that  था   विकसित  between the various European  शक्तियां  since 1870 .
Some of  the  most important long term or structural causes are :  the  growth of  राष्ट्रवाद  across Europe , unresolved  territorial  disputes , an intricate system of  alliances  , the perceived breakdown of  the  balance of power in Europe , convoluted and fragmented governance , the  बाहें  races of the previous decades , previous military planning , imperial and colonial rivalry  लिये  wealth , power  और  prestige  ,  and  आर्थिक  and military rivalry in  उद्योग  and trade  –  e.g. ,  the  Pig War between Austria and Serbia .
Other causes that came into  खेल  during the  राजनयिक  crisis that  preceded  the war included misperceptions of intent ( e.g.  ,   the  German belief that the United Kingdom would remain neutral ) and delays and misunderstandings  in  diplomatic communications .
The various categories  of  explanation for World War  i  correspond to different historians ' overall methods .
Most historians  और  popular commentators  शामिल  causes from more than one  श्रेणी  of explanation  to   provide  a rounded  खाता  of the causes  of  the war .
the  deepest distinction among these accounts is between stories that see it as  the  inevitable and predictable outcome of certain  कारकों  , and those that describe it as an  मनमानी   और  unfortunate mistake  .
In attributing  कल्याणकारी  for the war , historians and  लड  had to deal with an unprecedented  बाढ़  of memoirs and official documents , released as each country involved tried to avoid blame  लिये   starting  the war .
जल्दी  releases of information by governments , particularly those  released  for use by the `` Commission on the Responsibility of the Authors of the War '' were  दिखाया  to be incomplete and biased .
in  addition some documents , especially diplomatic cables between Russia and France , were found to have been doctored  .
Even in later decades however ,  जब  much more information had been  released  , historians from the same  संस्कृति  have been shown to come to differing conclusions on the causes of the war .
जॉनसन  's new chart of national  प्रतीक   ,  published c. 1868  .
The large flags shown  in  the corners are the 37-star flag  of  the United States ( flown 1867-1877 ) , the Royal  मानक  of the United Kingdom , the Russian Imperial Standard  ,  and the French tricolore with inset Imperial Eagle .
Various  अन्य   ध्वज  flown by  जहाजों  are shown .
The Flag of  क्यूबा  is labelled `` Cuban ( so called ) `` .
The Chinese dragon on the Flag of China  थी  drawn mistakenly as a western  ड्रैगन   .
A national  ध्वज  is a flag  कि   symbolizes  a  देश  .
The flag  is  flown by  the   सरकारी  , but usually can also be flown by citizens of the country .
Both public and private buildings  ऐसे  as schools and courthouses may fly  the  national flag  .
In some countries , the national flags are only  flown  from non-military  इमारतें  on certain  ध्वज  days .
There are  तीन  distinct types of national flag for use on  जमीन  , and  तीन  for  उपयोग  at sea , though many countries use identical designs for several ( and sometimes all )  of  these types of flag .
The American  सिविल  War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming )  ,  was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States (  the  `` Union '' or the ``  उत्तर  ''  )  and several Southern slave  राज्य  that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America  (  the  ``  Confederacy  ''   or  the ``  दक्षिण   ''  ) .
The war had its origin in the  समस्या  of slavery , especially  the  extension of slavery  into  the western territories .
Foreign powers did not intervene .
बाद  four  सालो  of bloody  कॉम्बैट  that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and  नष्ट  much  of  the South  's   अवसंरचना  ,  the  Confederacy  collapsed  , slavery was abolished , and  the  difficult Reconstruction  प्रक्रम  of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the  freed  slaves  began  .
in  the 1860  अध्यक्षीय  election ,  republicans  , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery into United States  '  territories  .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March  4  , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave  राज्य  formed the  confederacy  .
Outgoing  लोकतांत्रिक  President James Buchanan and  the   आवक  Republicans rejected secession  as  illegal .
Lincoln  's  inaugural address declared his  प्रशासन  would not  initiate  civil war .
Eight remaining slave states continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces  जब्त  numerous federal forts within territory  claimed   by  the Confederacy .
a  Peace  सम्मेलन  failed to find a compromise , and  दोनो  sides prepared  लिये  war .
The Confederates assumed that European  देशों  were  so  dependent on `` King  कपास   ``   कि  they would  intervene  ;  none  did and  none  recognized the new Confederate  राज्य  of America .
Hostilities  began  on April  12  , 1861 , when Confederate forces  fired  upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state  to  provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently , four  अधिक  slave states  joined  the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union  जल्द   नियंत्रित   the  border states and established a naval blockade  कि  crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater  थी  inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland (  a  Union state ) ended  साथ  Confederate retreat at  the  Battle of Antietam , dissuading British  हस्तक्षेप  .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा  , which made ending slavery a  युद्ध  goal .
to  the west , by summer 1862  the  Union destroyed the Confederate river  नेवी  , then much of their  पश्चिमी  armies , and the Union  at   vicksburg  split  the  Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended  at  the Battle  of  Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east  to  capture Atlanta and  marched  to the sea ,  destroying  Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to  आक्रमण  the Confederacy  इससे   सब  directions , and could  afford  to fight  लड़ाइयों  of attrition through  the  Overland  अभियान  towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed ,  अग्रणी   to   ली  's surrender  to  Grant at Appomattox Court House  on   अप्रैल  9 , 1865 .
The American Civil  युद्ध  was one of the  earliest  true  औद्योगिक  wars .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships , and mass-produced weapons were  employed   extensively  .
The mobilization  of  civilian factories  ,   खानों  , shipyards , banks  ,  transportation and  खाना  supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains  the  deadliest war in American history  ,  resulting in the deaths  of  an estimated 750,000 soldiers and  an  undetermined number of  civilian   हताहत  .
इतिहासकार  John Huddleston  estimates   the  death  टोल   at  ten percent of  सब  Northern males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Norrie disease  is  a genetic disorder that primarily affects the eye and  लगभग   सदा  leads to blindness .
In addition to the congenital  ocular   लक्षण   ,  some  मरीजों  suffer from a progressive hearing loss  starting  mostly in  उनके  2nd decade of life  ,  while another portion  may  be  मानसिक  challenged  .
मरीजों  with Norrie disease  may   develop  cataracts  ,  leukocoria ( a  कंडीशन  where the pupils  appear  white  जब  light is  shone  on them ) , along with other developmental  मुद्दे  in the eye , such as shrinking of  the  globe  और  the wasting away of the iris .
Around 30–50 %  of  them will also  have  developmental  डेलाy/  mental retardation , psychotic-like features , incoordination of movements or behavioral abnormalities .
Most patients  हैं  born with normal hearing ; however , the onset of hearing loss is very  आम  in early adolescence .
About 15 % of the  मरीजों  are estimated to  develop   सब  the features of the disease .
The disease affects almost only male infants at birth or soon after birth , because the  बीमारी  is  inherited  X-linked recessive .
Only in very rare cases , females have been diagnosed with Norrie disease  as  well .
The exact incidence number is unknown ;  तभी  a few hundred cases have  महरूम   reported   so  far .
It is a very rare disorder that is  नहीं  associated with any specific ethnic or racial groups .
a  contract is an agreement having a lawful object  डाला  into voluntarily by two or more parties , each of whom  intends  to  बनाएँ  one or more legal obligations between them .
the  elements of  a  contract  हैं  `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by ``  competent  persons '' having  विधिक  capacity who exchange ``  विचार  '' to create `` mutuality  of  obligation  .   ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be done in  लिखने  , though contracts may be made  entirely  orally or by conduct .
The  उपाय  for breach of contract can be `` damages '' in the form of compensation of money or  विशिष्ट  performance enforced through  an  injunction .
Both of these remedies award  the  party at loss the  ``  benefit of the bargain ''  or  expectation damages ,  जिससे  are greater than mere reliance damages ,  as  in promissory estoppel .
The parties may be  प्राकृतिक  persons or juristic persons .
A contract is a  legally  enforceable promise  or  undertaking that  कुछ   होगा  or will not occur .
The  शब्द  promise can be  प्रयुक्त  as a legal synonym for contract , although care  is  required as a promise  may  not have the full  खड़ा  of a contract , as  जब  it is an agreement without consideration .
Contract law varies greatly from  एक  jurisdiction to another , including differences in  आम  law  compared  to civil law  ,   the  impact of  प्राप्त  law ,  विशेषकर  from England in common law countries , and of law codified in  क्षेत्रीय  legislation .
Regarding Australian  अनुबंध   विधि   लिये  example  ,  there are 40  प्रासंगिक  acts which impact on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth (  संघीय  /  नेशनल  ) level , and an  अतिरिक्त  26 acts  at   the   स्तर   of  the  राज्य  of NSW .
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable for international dealings , such  as  the United Nations Convention  on  Contracts for  the  International  बिक्री  of  goods  .
ASP.NET is a server-side  वेब  application framework  designed  for Web development to produce dynamic  वेब  pages .
it  was  विकसित  by Microsoft to allow programmers to build dynamic web sites , web applications and web services .
It was first  released  in  जनवरी  2002 with  संस्करण  1.0 of  the   .neT   फ्रेमवर्क  , and is  the   successor  to Microsoft  's  Active Server Pages ( ASP  )  technology .
ASP.NET is built on  the  Common Language Runtime (  clr  ) , allowing programmers to write ASP.NET  कोड  using any supported .NET language .
The ASP.NET SOAP extension framework  allows  ASP.NET components  to  process  साबुन  messages .
Lysergic  एसिड  diethylamide , abbreviated LSD or LSD-25 , also  ज्ञात  as lysergide ( INN )  और  colloquially as acid , is a  semisynthetic   साइकेडेलिक  drug of the ergoline family , well known  लिये  its  मनोवैज्ञानिक   प्रभाव   जिससे   can  include altered thinking processes , closed and open eye visuals , synesthesia , an altered sense  of  time and  आध्यात्मिक  experiences  ,   as   खूब  as for its key role in  1960s   counterculture  .
It  is  used mainly as an entheogen  ,  recreational drug , and  as  an  एजेंट  in  साइकेडेलिक  therapy .
LSD is non-addictive ,  is  not known  to  cause brain damage , and  रै  extremely low toxicity  सापेक्ष  to dose .
However  ,  adverse psychiatric reactions such as anxiety ,  paranoia   ,  and delusions are  संभावित  .
LSD was first synthesized by Albert Hofmann in 1938  इससे  ergotamine , a chemical derived  by  Arthur Stoll  इससे   ergot  , a grain  कवक   कि  typically grows  on  rye .
The short form `` LSD '' comes from  इसके  early code name LSD-25 , which  is  an  संक्षिप्त  for the  जर्मनी  `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid  ''  followed by a sequential number .
LSD is sensitive to oxygen , ultraviolet  लाइट  , and  क्लोराइड  , especially in solution ,  हालांकि  its potency may last  लिये  years if it  is  stored away from light and moisture  at  low temperature  .
In pure form it is a colorless , odorless , tasteless  ठोस  .
LSD is typically delivered orally , usually on a  substrate  such as  absorbent  blotter paper  ,  a sugar cube  ,  or gelatin .
in  its liquid form , it can  भी  be administered  by  intramuscular or intravenous injection .
LSD is  बहुत  potent , with  20–30  μg (  micrograms  ) being the threshold dose  .
नई   प्रयोग  with LSD started  in  2009  लिये   the  first time in 40 years .
Introduced  by  Sandoz Laboratories , with trade-name  delysid  , as a  ड्रग  with  विभिन्न  psychiatric  उपयोग  in 1947 , LSD quickly became a therapeutic agent that appeared to show great  वादा  .
In  the  1950s , officials at  the  U.S. Central Intelligence Agency  (  CIA ) thought the drug might be applicable to mind control  और  chemical warfare  ;  the agency 's MKULTRA research program  propagated   the  drug among young servicemen and students .
The subsequent recreational use of the  ड्रग  by youth culture in the Western world during the 1960s led to a  राजनैतिक  firestorm that resulted in its prohibition .
Currently , a number of organizations—including the  beckley  Foundation , MAPS , Heffter Research  संस्थान  and the  अल्बर्ट  Hofmann Foundation—exist to fund , encourage  और   निर्देशांक  research  into   the  medicinal and spiritual uses of LSD  और  related psychedelics .
The United States Navy 's Sea , Air  ,  Land  टीमों  , commonly  ज्ञात  as the Navy SEALs , are the U.S. Navy 's principal special operations force and a  भाग  of the Naval Special  warfare  Command and United States Special Operations Command  .
`` SEAL '' is always capitalized in reference  to  members  of  the Naval Special Warfare community .
The acronym is derived from their  क्षमता   to   operate  at  समुद्र  ,  in   the  air , and on land .
seals  are  पुरूष  members of  the  United States Navy .
An exchange  कार्यक्रम   साथ   the  Coast Guard ,  जिससे   ग्रैजुएट  three Coast Guardsmen as SEALs , was suspended  in   2011  .
the  CIA 's highly secretive Special Activities Division ( SAD )  और  more specifically its elite  खास  Operations  समूह   (  SOG )  रंगरूटों  operators from the SEAL Teams .
Joint Navy SEALs and CIA  परिचालन  go back to  the  famed MACV-SOG during the  वियतनाम  War .
This cooperation  स्टिल  exists today and  is  seen  in  the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan ,  और  in  the  finding and killing of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan .
World population estimates from  1800  to 2100 , based on UN 2010 projections ( red  ,  orange  ,  green )  और  US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black )  .
Actual recorded population figures are in  ब्लू  .
According  to  the highest estimate , the world population may  वृद्धि  to  16  billion  by  2100  ;   according   to  the  न्यूनतम  estimate , it  may  decline to 6 billion  .
The world population is  the  total number of living humans on Earth  .
As of today , it is estimated to number billion  by  the United States Census Bureau ( USCB ) .
the   uscb   estimates  that the world population exceeded 7  अरब  on  कूच  12 , 2012  .
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund , it reached this milestone  on   अक्तूबर  31 ,  2011  .
The world population  रै  experienced continuous  विकास  since  the  end of  the  Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350 ,  जब   it  stood at around  370  million .
the  highest rates  of  growth  –  global population increases  ऊपर  1.8 % per year  –   यहूद  seen  briefly  during the 1950s , and  लिये   a  longer period during the 1960s and 1970s .
the  growth  रेट  peaked at 2.2 % in 1963 , and had  अस्वीकृत  to  1.1  % by 2011 .
कुल  annual births were  उच्चतम  in the late 1980s at  परिचय  138  लाख  , and are now  अपेक्षित  to  remain  essentially constant  at  their 2011 level of 134 million  ,  while deaths number 56 million per year , and are expected to increase  to  80 million per year by  2040  .
Current projections  दिखाएँ  a continued increase in  जनसांख्यिकी   in  the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ) , with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth ,  stagnation  , or  भी   overall  decline  in   the  global population by 2150 .
Some analysts  have   questioned  the sustainability of further world population  विकास  , citing  the   growing  pressures on the  पर्यावरण  , global food  आपूर्तियाँ   ,  and energy resources .
Memphis is a city in the southwestern  कोने  of the U.S. state of  टेनेसी  , and the county  सीट  of Shelby County .
The  नगर   is  located on the  4th   chickasaw  Bluff , south of the confluence  of   the  Wolf and Mississippi rivers .
Memphis had a population of 672,277 in 2011  बनाना  it the largest city in the state of Tennessee , the largest  नगर  on  the  Mississippi River , the third largest in  the   southeastern  United  राज्य   ,  and  the  20th largest in  the  United  राज्य  .
The greater Memphis metropolitan area , including adjacent counties  in  Mississippi  और   अरकंसास   ,  had a  2010  population  of  1,316,100 .
इस  makes  मेम्फिस  the second largest metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  in Tennessee , surpassed only  by  metropolitan Nashville ,  जिससे  has overtaken Memphis in  हाल   सालो   .
Memphis is the youngest of Tennessee 's major cities .
A resident of Memphis  is  referred to as a Memphian ,  और  the Memphis region is known , particularly to media outlets ,  as  ``  मेम्फिस  & The Mid-South `` .
The Cattenom Nuclear Power Plant in France .
France  produces  around three quarters of  इसके   विद्युत  by nuclear power .
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear  शक्ति  Plant in Germany  .
Chancellor  एंजेला  Merkel 's coalition announced on May 30 , 2011  ,  that  germany’s  17 nuclear power stations will  be  shut down by  2022  , in  a  policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi  नाभिकीय  disaster .
Currently , 68 reactors are under construction in 15 countries .
Nuclear power stations  operate  in thirty countries .
In 2010 , before the  फुकुशिमा  Daiichi nuclear disaster , it was reported that  an  average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational  प्रति  year  ,  although according to the World  नाभिकीय  Association  ,   of  the 17 civilian reactors  नियोजित  to become operational between 2007 and 2009  ,  only five actually came on stream .
As of June  2011  , Germany and Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power  .
As of June 2011 , countries such  as   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , Austria ,  डेनमार्क  , Greece , Ireland , Italy , Latvia ,  liechtenstein  , Luxembourg , Malaysia , Malta , New Zealand , Norway  और  Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power .
skeletal   मांसपेशियां  homo sapiens
This is a table  of  muscles of the human anatomy .
There are approximately 642 skeletal  मांसपेशियां  within the  ठेठ   इंसान  , and  लगभग  every muscle constitutes one part of  a  pair of identical bilateral muscles , found on both  पहलू  , resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles  ,   as  presented in this article .
Nevertheless , the  सटीक  number  is  difficult to define  क्युकी  different sources group muscles differently , e.g  .  regarding what is defined as  अलग  parts of a  सिंगल  muscle or  as  several muscles .
Examples range from 640 to 850 .
The muscles of the  इंसान  body can be categorized into  a   क्रमांक   of   समूह  which  शामिल  muscles  relating  to the  सिर  and neck , muscles  of  the torso or trunk ,  मांसपेशियां  of the upper limbs ,  और   मांसपेशियां  of the lower limbs .
The action  refers  to the action of each muscle  इससे  the  मानक  anatomical position  .
In other positions ,  अन्य  actions may be  performed  .
A reenactment  of  a battle  at  Fort  फोस्टर  , 1837 ( at Hillsborough  नदी  State Park )
The Seminole Wars  ,  also known as  the  Florida Wars , were  तीन  conflicts  in  Florida  between   the   seminole  — the collective  नाम   दिए  to the amalgamation of various groups  of  native  अमेरिकी   और  Black people who settled  in  Florida in the  जल्दी  18th century — and  the  United States Army .
The First Seminole War was from 1814 to 1819 ( although sources differ )  ,  the Second Seminole  युद्ध   इससे   1835  to  1842  , and the Third Seminole  युद्ध  from 1855 to 1858 .
The first conflict with  the  Seminoles arose  आउट   of  tensions relating to General Andrew  जैक्सन  's  आक्रमण  and destruction of Negro Fort in Florida in 1816  .
Jackson also attacked  the  Spanish at Pensacola  .
ultimately  , the Spanish Crown ceded the colony  to  United States rule .
orono   is   a   कस्बा  in Penobscot County , Maine  ,  United States .
It  थी  first settled in 1774 and  नामित   in  honor of Chief Joseph Orono of the  penobscot  Nation  .
It  is  home to The University of  maine  .
The population was 10,362 at the  2010  census .
View of the  पिरामिड
Luxor Las  वेगास  is  a  hotel and casino on  the  Las Vegas  स्ट्रिप  in Paradise , Nevada .
The 30-story  होटल  , owned and operated  by   mgm  Resorts International  ,   रै  a casino with over 2,000 slot machines and 87  तालिका  games  .
In the 2008  to   2009   नवीकरण  , it has a new , highly modernized  ,  and contemporary design and  contains  a total of 4,400  कक्ष  ,  सहित  442 suites , lining the interior walls of a pyramid style tower and  भीतर  twin  22-story  ziggurat towers that were built  as  later additions  .
The hotel is named after the city  of  Luxor ( ancient  thebes   )  in Egypt .
Luxor is the second largest hotel in  लास   वेगास  ( the largest being the MGM Grand ) and  the  eighth largest in the world .
As of 2010  ,  the  लक्सर  has a 4 Key rating from the Green Key Eco-Rating Program , which evaluates `` sustainable '' hotel operations  .
a   पायलट  experiment  ,  also  पुकारा   a  pilot study  ,  is a small scale preliminary study  conducted   in  order to  evaluate   feasibility  , time ,  लागत  ,  प्रतिकूल  events , and effect size ( statistical variability  )  in an  attempt  to predict an appropriate sample size and improve upon the study design prior to performance of a full-scale  शोध  project .
Pilot studies , therefore ,  may  not  be  appropriate  लिये  case studies .
the  Los Angeles Fire  विभाग   (  LAFD )  is  the agency  कि  provides fire protection and  आपात   चिकित्सा  services for the city of Los Angeles .
It may be unofficially referred  to  as the Los Angeles City Fire Department to distinguish it from the Los Angeles County  आग  Department .
The acre  is   a   ईकाई  of area  प्रयुक्त   in  the  इम्पीरियल  and  u.S.  customary systems  .
an  acre is about 40 % of a hectare – slightly  छोटी  than an  अमरीकी  football field .
The acre is no longer commonly used , although a  few  notable exceptions  शामिल  the United States , Australia  ,   बर्मा  and  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom  (  as of 2010 , the  एकड़  is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom , though  is   स्टिल  used in  रियल  estate descriptions ) .
it  is still used , to some  extent  , in Canada .
The international  प्रतीक  of the acre  is  ac  ,  and is defined as  1/640  of a square mile .
The most commonly used  एकड़   आज   is  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  acre .
In the  संयुक्त  States both the international acre  और  the slightly different US survey acre are in use  .
The most  आम  use of  the  acre is  to  measure tracts  of  land  .
One international acre is defined as  4046.8564224  square metres .
दौरान  the Middle Ages , an acre was  the  amount of land that could be plowed in one day with a yoke of  oxen  .
Pawnee initially  refers  to a  देशी   अमरीकी  people  और  its  language:
Pawnee people
Pawnee language
Pawnee is also the name  of   अनेक  places in  the   संयुक्त  States:
Pawnee , Illinois
Pawnee , Kansas
Pawnee City , Nebraska
pawnee  ,  ओक्लाहोमा
Pawnee , Texas
Pawnee National Grassland  ,  Colorado
Pawnee Township (  बहुविकल्पी  )
Pawnee County ( disambiguation )
Pawnee may  भी  refer to:
Piper PA-25 Pawnee , agricultural  वायुयान
Hiller  vz-1  Pawnee ,  प्रायोगिक  aircraft
Pawnee , Indiana (  fictional  city  )  the fictional setting  of  the NBC television comedy Parks and Recreation .
broca  's and  wernicke  's Areas
Language processing refers  to  the way human beings  उपयोग  words  to  communicate ideas and feelings  ,  and how such communications are processed and understood  .
Thus it is  कैसा  the  दिमाग  creates and understands  भाषा  .
Most recent theories  consider  that this process is carried  आउट  entirely by and inside the brain .
This is  माना   एक  of the  सबसे  characteristic abilities of the  इंसान  species - perhaps the  सबसे  characteristic .
However  बहुत  little is known  परिचय   it   और  there is huge scope for research on  it  .
सबसे  of the knowledge acquired to date on  the   विषय  has come from patients who have suffered  कुछ  type  of  significant head injury , whether external  (   wounds   ,  bullets  )   or  internal ( strokes  ,  tumors , degenerative diseases ) .
Studies have shown that most of  the   भाषा  processing functions are carried out in  the  cerebral cortex .
The essential function  of  the cortical language areas is symbolic representation  .
भी  though language  exists  in  अलग  forms , all of them are based on symbolic representation .
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring  car  , designed  और  developed  by  the  volkswagen  Group and manufactured in Molsheim , France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S  .
The Super  खेल  version of the Veyron  is  the fastest street-legal production  car  in the world , with a top speed of  .
the  original version  रै  a top  गति  of .
It was named Car of the  दशक  (  2000–2009  ) by the BBC television programme Top Gear  .
The standard  veyron  won Top Gears  बेहतरीन  Car Driven  सब  Year award  in   2005   .
On 6 April 2013 , Bugatti set the record for the fastest roadster  in  the  संसार  with the  veyron  Grand Sport Vitesse , reaching on  औसत  a top speed of .
the  Veyron 's  मुख्य  designer was Hartmut Warkuss , and  the  exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen ,  साथ  much of  the  engineering work  होने  conducted under the  मार्गदर्शन  of  अभियान्त्रिकी  chief  वुल्फगांग   schreiber  .
A number of special  विसंगतियाँ  have been  उत्पादित  .
in  December  2010  , Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize  exterior   और  interiors colours by using  the  Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on  the  marque  's   आधिकारिक  website .
DVD is an optical  डिस्क  storage format ,  invented  and  विकसित  by Philips , Sony , Toshiba  ,  and Panasonic in 1995 .
DVDs offer higher storage  क्षमता  than compact discs while having the  वही  dimensions .
Pre-recorded DVDs are mass-produced using molding machines that physically  स्टैम्प  data onto the DVD .
Such discs are known as DVD- ROM  ,  because data can only be read and not written  nor  erased .
Blank recordable DVD discs ( DVD-R and DVD+R )  can  be recorded once using a DVD recorder and then function as a DVD-ROM . Rewritable  dvds  (  dvd-rw  , DVD+RW , and DVD-RAM ) can be recorded  और  erased multiple times .
dvds  are used in DVD-Video consumer digital video format and  in  DVD-Audio consumer digital audio format , as well as for authoring AVCHD discs .
DVDs containing other types of information may be referred to as DVD  आंकड़ा   discs  .
कया  Chilli Wants  is  an  अमरीकी  reality series on VH1  अभिनीत  Chilli  ,   one-third  of the  ग्रैमी  Award  -winning  R  &  B trio TLC .
the  show  क्रॉनिकल्स  Chilli  's   क्वेस्ट  to find love with the help of Tionna T. Smalls , an author and relationship coach .
the  series premiered on April  11  , 2010  ,  and has since been renewed for a second season .
The second season premiered on Sunday ,  जनवरी  2 , 2011 .
Peter Gene Hernandez ( born October  8   ,  1985 ) ,  ज्ञात   by  his stage name Bruno Mars ,  is   an  American singer-songwriter and record producer .
Raised in Honolulu , Hawaii , by a family of musicians , Mars  began  making music at a young age  और   performed  in various  musical  venues in his  गृहनगर  throughout his childhood .
He  ग्रैजुएट  from high school and then moved to Los Angeles , California , to  pursue  a musical career .
Mars produced songs for other  कलाकारों  , joining production  टोली   the  Smeezingtons .
Mars had  an  unsuccessful stint with Motown Records ,  लकिन  then signed with Atlantic in 2009 .
He became recognized as a solo artist after lending  उसके   vocals   और  co-writing the hooks for the songs `` Nothin ' on You `` by B.o.B , and  ``  Billionaire `` by Travie McCoy .
He  भी  co-wrote the  हिट्स  ``  सही  Round `` by Flo Rida featuring Ke $ ha ,  और  ``  wavin   '   ध्वज  `` by K'naan .
In October 2010 , he released his debut album , Doo-Wops & Hooligans  .
Anchored by the worldwide  number-one   singles   ``  Just the Way You Are  ``  and `` Grenade  ``  , the album peaked  at  number three on the Billboard 200 .
Mars was  मनोनीत  for seven Grammys at  the  53rd  ग्रैमी  Awards  ,  winning Best Male Pop Vocal Performance for `` Just  the  Way You Are ''  .
His second studio album , Unorthodox Jukebox  ,  was released  on  December 11 , 2012 .
Mars ' music is noted for displaying a wide variety of styles and  प्रभाव  , and contains elements of  अनेक  musical genres .
he  has  worked  with  an  assortment of artists from  विभिन्न  genres .
As a child , he was highly influenced by artists such  as   छोटी  Richard , Elvis  प्रेस्ली  and Michael Jackson and would often impersonate these artists  इससे   a  young  आयु  .
मंगल  also incorporates reggae  -   और  Motown -inspired  ध्वनि   into   उसके  work  .
Worldwide , Mars became the best-selling  डिजिटल  artist in 2011 .
He had three singles in the top ten  ,  including first place with ``  बस  the Way  तुम  Are  ''  , which sold 12.5 million  नक़ल  .
Mars won  बेहतरीन   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Male Solo Artist at  the  2012 BRIT Awards .
Bruno Mars  रै  sold 6  लाख  albums and 40 million singles worldwide as a singer  .
Althought as  a  song-writer ,  निर्माता  and  सिंगर  his total single download  बिक्री  surpass 100 million worldwide .
बस्ट  of Zeus  ,  Otricoli ( Sala Rotonda , Museo Pio-Clementino , Vatican ) .
यूनानी   mythology  is the body  of  myths  और  teachings that belong to the ancient Greeks ,  concerning  their gods and heroes , the nature of the world , and the origins and  significance  of  उनके  own cult and  अनुष्ठान  practices .
It was a part  of   the  religion in ancient Greece and  is  part of  धर्म  in modern  यूनानियों  and  around  the world , known  as  Hellenismos .
Modern scholars refer to and study the myths in an attempt  to  throw light  on  the  धार्मिक   और  political institutions  of  Ancient Greece  और  its civilization  ,   और  to gain understanding of  the  nature of myth-making itself .
Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives  ,  and implicitly in Greek representational arts , such as vase-paintings  और  votive gifts .
Greek myth  कोशिशें  to explain the origins  of  the  संसार   ,   और   विवरण  the  जीवनदान  and adventures of  a  wide variety of gods ,  देवियाँ  , heroes , heroines ,  और  mythological  जीव  .
ये  accounts initially were disseminated in an oral-poetic tradition ; today the Greek myths are known primarily from Greek literature  .
The  oldest  known Greek  साहित्यिक  sources , Homer 's  एपिक  poems Iliad  और  Odyssey , focus on  कार्यक्रम  surrounding the  trojan  War .
Two poems  by  Homer 's near contemporary Hesiod , the Theogony and the Works and Days  ,  contain accounts of the genesis of the world , the succession of divine  शासकों   ,  the succession of human ages , the origin of human woes , and the origin of sacrificial practices .
मिथकों   हैं  also preserved in the Homeric  hymns  , in fragments of epic poems of the Epic Cycle  ,  in lyric poems , in the works of  the  tragedians of the fifth century BC , in writings  of  scholars and poets of the Hellenistic Age ,  और  in texts from the time of the  रोमन  Empire by writers such as Plutarch  और   pausanias   .
पुरातत्व   निष्कर्षों  provide a principal source of detail about Greek mythology , with gods and heroes featured prominently  in  the decoration of many artifacts  .
ज्यामितीय  designs  on  pottery of the  आठवीं  century BC depict scenes from the Trojan cycle as well as the adventures of Heracles .
in  the succeeding Archaic , Classical , and  hellenistic  periods , Homeric and various other mythological scenes appear , supplementing the existing  साहित्यिक  evidence .
Greek mythology has had  an   extensive  influence on  the  culture ,  कला  ,  और  literature of Western civilization  और  remains part of  पश्चिमी  heritage  और  language .
कवियों  and artists  इससे  ancient times  to   the  present have derived inspiration  इससे  Greek  mythology  and have discovered contemporary significance and relevance  in  the themes .
Mouth &  macneal  in  1971
Mouth & MacNeal  थी  a  पॉप  duo from the Netherlands .
वे   हैं  best  ज्ञात  for their million selling recording of `` How Do You Do  ``  .
The Boise State Broncos football program represents Boise State University in  कॉलेज  football and compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS  )  of Division I as a member  of  the Mountain  वेस्ट  Conference .
They are currently led by head  कोच  Chris Petersen and play their home games  at  Bronco Stadium  .
the   फ़्रैंक  ( sign :  fr  . or SFr . ;  जर्मनी   :   franken  , French and Romansh  :  franc ,  इतालवी  :  फ्रेंको   ;  code  :  CHF ) is  the  currency  और  legal tender of Switzerland  और  Liechtenstein ; it  is  also legal tender in the Italian exclave Campione  d'italia  .
Although not  formally  legal tender in the German exclave  büsingen  ( the sole  विधिक  currency is the euro ) , it is in  चौड़ी  daily use  वहीँ  .
The Swiss National Bank issues banknotes  और  the federal mint Swissmint issues coins .
The  स्विस  franc is the only version of the franc still issued in Europe .
The  छोटी  denomination ,  a   hundredth  of a franc , is a Rappen ( Rp . ) in German ,  centime   (  c. )  in  French  ,  centesimo ( ct. ) in Italian , and rap ( rp . )  in  Romansh .
The ISO code of the currency used  by  banks  और   वित्तीय  institutions  is  CHF , although `` Fr .  ''  is used  by  most  व्यवसायों  and advertisers ; some use SFr . ; the Latinate ``  ch  ''  स्टैंड  for Confoederatio  helvetica  .
Given the  अलग  languages used in Switzerland ,  लैटिन  is used for language-neutral inscriptions on the coins .
Sir Charles Spencer `` Charlie '' Chaplin  ,  ( 16 April 188925 December 1977 ) was a British  कॉमिक  actor and filmmaker who rose to fame  in  the silent era  .
Chaplin became a worldwide  प्रतीक  through his screen persona  ``  the  ट्रैम्प   ``  and  is  considered  एक  of the  सबसे  important figures  of  the film industry  .
His career spanned more than 75 years , from a  चाइल्ड  in the Victorian era to close to  उसके  death at the age  of  88  ,  and encompassed both adulation and controversy .
Raised in London  ,   चैपलिन  's childhood was defined  by   गरीबी  and hardship .
He was sent to a workhouse twice before  the  age  of   नौ  ; his father was absent  ,  and  उसके   माँ  was committed to a mental asylum .
Chaplin  began  performing from a young age ,  touring  music halls  और   बाद   working  as  a  stage actor and comedian .
At  19  he  थी  signed  to   the  prestigious  फ्रेड  Karno  कम्पनी  ,  जिससे  took him to America .
Chaplin was scouted by the film  उद्योग  , and made his first  दिखावे  in 1914  साथ   keystone  Studios .
He soon developed  the  Tramp persona and formed a large fan base .
Chaplin directed his films from  an  early stage  ,  and continued  to  hone his  शिल्प  as he moved to the Essanay , Mutual , and First National corporations .
By 1918 , he  थी  one of the most famous men in the world .
In 1919 , Chaplin  co-founded  the distribution company United Artists  ,  giving him complete control over his films .
उसके  first feature-length picture was The  बच्चा   (  1921  )  , followed by A Woman of Paris (  1923  ) , The Gold  फटाफट  ( 1925 ) , and The Circus ( 1928 ) .
he   refused  to  मूव  to sound films in the 1930s  ,  instead producing City  लाइट्स  (  1931  ) and Modern Times  (  1936 )  बगैर  dialogue .
Chaplin became increasingly political and his  अगला  film , The Great Dictator  (  1940 ) ,  satirised  Adolf Hitler .
the   1940s  was a decade marked with controversy for Chaplin , and his popularity declined rapidly .
He was accused of communist sympathies ,  जबकि  his involvement in  a  paternity suit  और  marriages  to  much younger  महिलाओं  were considered scandalous  .
An  एफबीआई   छानबीन  was opened on Chaplin , and  he  was eventually forced to leave the United States and  settle   in  Switzerland .
He abandoned the Tramp for  उसके  later films , which  शामिल  Monsieur Verdoux ( 1947 ) , Limelight ( 1952  )   ,  A King in  नई  York ( 1957 )  ,  and A Countess From  हांग  Kong ( 1967  )   .
Chaplin  लिखा  , directed , produced , edited  ,  scored , and  स्ट्रक्चर   in  most of his films .
He was a  perfectionist  , and his financial independence meant he  प्रायः  spent  सालो   on  the development  और  production of a picture .
His films are characterised by slapstick combined  साथ  pathos , and often feature the Tramp struggling against adversity .
अनेक  contain social and political themes , as well as autobiographical elements  .
in  1972 ,  as  part  of   a  renewed appreciation  लिये  his work , Chaplin received  an  Honorary Academy Award for ``  the  incalculable effect he has had in  बनाना  motion pictures the art  रूप  of this century ''  .
He continues to  be  held in high  लिहाज़  ,  साथ  The Gold Rush , City Lights , Modern  टाइम्स  , and The Great Dictator often ranked among the greatest films  of  all time .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America ( PPFA )  ,   commonly  shortened to Planned Parenthood , is  the   u.S.  affiliate of the International  नियोजित   parenthood   संघ  ( IPPF  )  and one  of  its  larger   सदस्यों  .
PPFA is  a  non-profit  संगठन   providing  reproductive health and maternal and  चाइल्ड  health services .
The Planned Parenthood Action Fund  ,  Inc. (  ppaf  ) is a  सम्बन्धित   संगठन  which lobbies for  pro-choice  legislation , comprehensive sex  शिक्षा  , and access to  सस्ती  health  परवाह  in the United States .
Planned  parenthood  is the largest U.S. provider of reproductive health services  ,  including cancer screening ,  hiv   स्क्रीनिंग  and counseling , contraception ,  और  abortion .
Contraception accounts for 35 % of PPFA 's total services and  abortions  account for 3 % ; PPFA conducts roughly 300,000  abortions   प्रत्येक  year , among 3  लाख  people served  .
The organization has its roots in Brooklyn , New York , where  मार्गरेट  Sanger opened the country 's  पहला  birth-control clinic .
Sanger  संस्थापित  the American Birth  कंट्रोल  League in 1921 , which in 1942 became part  of  the Planned Parenthood Federation of  अमेरिका   .
Since then ,  नियोजित  Parenthood has grown  to  have over 820  क्लिनिक  locations  in  the U.S. ,  साथ  a total budget of US $ 1 billion .
PPFA provides an array of services to over three million people in the United States ,  और  supports services for over one million clients outside the United States .
Mens rea is Latin  लिये  `` guilty  दिमाग  '' .
In criminal law ,  it   is   viewed   as  one  of  the necessary elements of some  अपराधों   .
The standard  आम  law test of criminal liability  is  usually expressed in the Latin phrase , actus  गैर  facit reum nisi mens  बैठना  rea , which means  ``  the act is not  culpable  unless the mind is guilty  ''  .
Thus , in  jurisdictions  with due process  ,   वहीँ  must be an actus reus , or  ``  guilty  अधिनियम  , ''  accompanied   by  some level of  पुरुषों  rea to constitute the crime with which the defendant is charged (  देखिए  the technical requirement  of  concurrence  )  .
as   a   सामान्य  rule , criminal liability does  नहीं  attach to a person who acted with the absence  of  mental fault .
The exception is strict liability crimes .
In civil law  ,   it  is  प्रायः  not necessary to  prove   a  subjective mental element to establish  देयता  for breach of contract  or  tort ,  लिये   उदाहरण  .
However  ,  if a  अपकृत्य  is intentionally  वचनबद्ध  or a contract  is  intentionally breached , such intent  may  increase the scope  of  liability  as  well as the measure  of  damages payable to the plaintiff  .
Therefore , mens rea  refers  to the mental  तत्व   of   the  offence  कि  accompanies the actus reus .
In  कुछ   jurisdictions  , the terms mens rea  और  actus reus have been replaced by alternative terminology .
in  Australia , for example , the elements  of  the federal offences  हैं  now designated as ``  दोष  elements '' or `` mental elements ''  (  mens rea  )  and `` physical elements '' or `` external  तत्व  '' ( actus reus )  .
This terminology was adopted to replace  the  obscurity  of   the  Latin terms with simple  और   सटीक  phrasing .
Ulysses S. Grant ( born  hiram  Ulysses Grant ; April 27  ,  1822 –  जुलाई  23 , 1885  )  was the 18th  अध्यक्ष  of the United States ( 1869–1877  )  following his  अत्यधिक  successful role as a war general in  the  second half of the  सिविल  War .
Under Grant , the Union Army defeated the Confederate military ; having effectively ended the war and secession  साथ  the surrender  of  Robert E. Lee 's army at Appomattox .
As president he led the Radical Republicans in their effort  to  eliminate all vestiges of Confederate nationalism and slavery  .
Upset over uncontrolled violence  in   the  South and having  desired  to protect  अफ़्रीकी   अमरीकी  citizenship , President Grant effectively destroyed the Ku  klux  Klan  in  1871 .
Grant was  the  first  अध्यक्ष  to establish Civil Service reform having created a two-year federally funded Civil Service Commission in 1871 .
In terms of foreign policy , Grant revealed an `` unexpected capacity for deliberation and consultation '' that promoted the national interest .
उसके  reputation was marred by his repeated defense of  भ्रष्ट  appointees , and  by   अमेरिका  's first industrial  आयु  economic depression ( called the  ``  Panic of  1873  `` ) that dominated his second term .
हालांकि  his Republican Party split in  1872   साथ  reformers denouncing him  ,  Grant  थी  easily reelected .
By 1875 the conservative white  दक्षिणी  opposition regained control of every  राज्य  in the South and as he  बाएँ   the   श्वेत  House in  कूच  1877 his policies were being undone .
a  career soldier ,  he  graduated from the  संयुक्त  States Military Academy at West Point and served in the Mexican–American War .
जब   the  Civil War began  in  1861 , Grant trained Union volunteer regiments in Illinois .
In  1862   ,  as  a  general he fought a series of battles and was promoted to major  सामान्य  after forcing the surrender of a large  confederate  army and gaining control  of   केंटकी  and most of Tennessee  .
He then led Union forces to victory after initial setbacks in the Battle of Shiloh , earning a reputation as an aggressive commander .
In  जुलाई  1863 ,  बाद  a long  ,  complex campaign , Grant defeated five uncoordinated Confederate armies ( capturing one of them ) and seized Vicksburg .
This famous victory gave  the  Union full  कंट्रोल  of the Mississippi River , split off the western  confederacy   ,  and opened the way for more Union triumphs .
After another win at the  बैटल  of Chattanooga in late  1863  , President Abraham Lincoln made him lieutenant general  और  commander of all of the Union Armies .
as  commanding  सामान्य   of  the army , Grant confronted Robert  E.  Lee in a series of very bloody battles in 1864 known as the Overland  अभियान  that ended with the bottling up of Lee  at  Petersburg , outside the  confederate  capital of Richmond .
During the siege  ,  Grant coordinated a  श्रेणी  of  विनाशकारी  campaigns launched by William Tecumseh Sherman , Philip Sheridan , and George  थामस  .
Finally breaking through Lee 's trenches , the Union Army captured Richmond in April 1865 .
Lee surrendered his depleted forces to  ग्रान्ट   at  Appomattox as the Confederacy collapsed .
Although pro-Confederate  इतिहासकारों  attacked Grant as a ruthless butcher  जो  won by  brute  force  ,  most historians have hailed his military genius .
Grant 's two consecutive terms as  अध्यक्ष   stabilized  the nation  बाद  the American Civil War and during the turbulent Reconstruction period that followed .
As president , he enforced Reconstruction by enforcing civil rights laws and fighting Ku Klux Klan  हिंसा  .
Grant  जीती  passage of the Fifteenth Amendment ;  giving  constitutional protection  लिये  African-American voting rights .
He used  the  army to build the Republican Party in the South , based  on  black voters ,  उत्तरी  newcomers ( `` Carpetbaggers `` )  और  native white supporters ( `` Scalawags . '' )
As a result , African Americans  यहूद   represented  in the  u.S.   कॉंग्रेस  for the first time in American history in 1870 .
Reformers praised Grant 's Indian peace policy by  having  broken  the  deadlock on Indian  appropriations  in Congress  ,   the  creation of  the  Board of Indian Commissioners to make reform recommendations , and his  enlistment  of Quaker Protestants who controlled mid western Indian agencies , that effectively curbed Congressional patronage .
ग्रान्ट  remained determined in keeping  इंडियंस  from being exterminated from white settler encroachment or by the U.S. military .
Grant 's reputation as  अध्यक्ष  by  1875  was  at  an all-time  ऊँची  for  उसके   पिछला   वीटो   of  the Inflation  विधेयक  ,  the  passage of the Resumption of  specie   अधिनियम  , and  सचिव  Bristow 's successful raids that shut down  the  Whiskey  रिंग  .
Grant 's  विदेशी  policy , led by Secretary of State  हैमिल्टन  Fish , implemented International Arbitration  ,   settled  the Alabama Claims with Britain  और  avoided war  साथ  Spain  over  the Virginius Affair .
a   ज्यूकबॉक्स   is  a partially automated music-playing device , usually a coin-operated machine , that will play a  संरक्षक  's selection from self-contained media  .
the  classic jukebox has buttons  साथ   अक्षर  and numbers on them that , when entered in combination ,  हैं  used to play a  विशिष्ट  selection  .
A drug test is a technical analysis of a biological specimen – for  उदाहरण  urine ,  बाल  , blood , sweat ,  or  oral fluid /  लार  – to  determine  the presence or absence of specified  जनक  drugs or their metabolites  .
प्रमुख   उपयोग  of drug  परीक्षण  are to detect the presence of performance enhancing steroids in sport or for  दवाएँ  prohibited by  कानून  , such as  कैनबिस  , cocaine and heroin .
a   ``  10-panel urine  स्क्रीन  '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines ( including Methamphetamine )
Barbiturates
benzodiazepines
Cannabinoids ( THC )
Cocaine
Methadone
Methaqualone
Opiates ( Codeine , Morphine , Heroin , Oxycodone , Hydrocodone , etc . )
phencyclidine  ( PCP )
Propoxyphene
Saturn V rocket , used  लिये   the   अमरीकी  manned lunar landing missions
स्पेस  exploration is the discovery and exploration of outer  स्पेस  by  अर्थात्  of space technology .
Physical exploration of space is conducted  दोनो  by human spaceflights and by  रोबोटिक   spacecraft  .
जबकि  the  अवलोकन  of  वस्तुएँ  in space  ,   ज्ञात  as astronomy , predates reliable recorded history , it was the development of large and relatively  कुशल  rockets during the early  20th  century that  अनुमत   शारीरिक  space  खोजी  to become a reality .
Common rationales for exploring space include  advancing   वैज्ञानिक  research ,  uniting  different nations , ensuring the future  अस्तित्व  of humanity and developing military and  रणनीतिक  advantages against other  देशों  .
विभिन्न   आलोचनाओं  of  स्पेस  exploration are sometimes made .
स्पेस  exploration has often been  प्रयुक्त  as  a  proxy  प्रतियोगिता  for geopolitical rivalries  ऐसे  as the Cold War .
The early era  of   स्पेस  exploration was driven by a `` Space Race  ``   between  the  सोवियत  Union and the United States , the launch of the first man-made object to orbit the Earth , the USSR 's Sputnik 1 ,  on  4 October 1957 , and the first Moon landing by the American Apollo 11  शिल्प  on  20  July 1969 are often taken as the boundaries for this initial period .
The Soviet space  कार्यक्रम   हासिल  many of the  पहला  milestones , including the first  जीना  being in orbit in 1957 , the first human  spaceflight  ( Yuri Gagarin  सवार  Vostok 1 ) in 1961 , the  पहला  spacewalk  (  by  aleksei  Leonov ) on 18 March 1965 ,  the  first  स्वचालित  landing on another celestial body in 1966 , and the launch  of  the first space station ( Salyut  1  ) in 1971 .
After the first 20 years of  खोजी  , focus shifted from one-off flights to  बेदर्दी  hardware ,  ऐसे   as   the  Space Shuttle program  ,  and from competition to cooperation as  साथ  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Space Station  (  ISS )  .
With the substantial completion of the ISS following STS-133 in March 2011  ,  plans  लिये   स्पेस  exploration by the USA remain in  फ्लक्स  .
Constellation  ,  a Bush Administration program for a return to  the   चंद्रमा  by  2020  was judged inadequately  वित्तपोषित  and unrealistic by an expert review panel reporting in 2009  .
The Obama  प्रशासन  proposed a revision  of  Constellation in 2010 to focus  on  the development of the capability for  crewed   मिशन  beyond low earth orbit  (  LEO ) , envisioning extending the  आपरेशन  of the  iss  beyond 2020  ,  transferring  the  development  of  launch vehicles for  इंसान  crews from  नासा  to  the  private sector  ,   और  developing technology  to  enable missions to  परे  LEO , such as Earth/Moon L1 , the Moon , Earth/Sun L2 , near-earth asteroids , and Phobos  or  Mars orbit .
As of March  2011   ,  the US  सीनेट  and House of  प्रतिनिधि  are still working towards  a  compromise NASA funding bill ,  जिससे  will probably terminate Constellation and fund development of a heavy lift launch vehicle ( HLLV  )  .
In the 2000s  ,  the People 's Republic of China initiated a successful  मानवयुक्त  spaceflight  कार्यक्रम  ,  जबकि   the  European  संघ  , Japan , and India have also planned future manned space  मिशन   .
चीन  , Russia  ,  Japan , and India have advocated manned missions to the Moon during the 21st century , while the European Union has  advocated  manned missions to both  the  Moon and Mars during the 21st  सदी  .
From the 1990s onwards , private interests began promoting space tourism and then  निजी   स्पेस   खोजी   of  the Moon ( see Google Lunar X Prize )  .
John Calvin Coolidge  ,   jr.   (   जुलाई  4 ,  1872january   5   ,  1933 ) was the 30th  अध्यक्ष   of  the  संयुक्त  States ( 1923–1929 ) .
A Republican lawyer from Vermont , Coolidge worked  उसके   रास्ता  up  the  ladder of  मैसाचुसेट्स   राज्य  politics ,  आखिरकार   बनने  governor of that state .
His conduct during the Boston  पुलिस  Strike of 1919 thrust him into the  नेशनल  spotlight  और  gave him a reputation as a man of decisive  कार्रवाई  .
Soon after , he  थी  elected  as  the 29th Vice President in 1920 and  succeeded  to the Presidency upon  the  sudden death of  वारेन  G. Harding in 1923 .
Elected in his own right in 1924  ,   he  gained a reputation as a small-government conservative  ,  and also as a man  जो  said very little .
Coolidge restored public confidence in the White House after the scandals of his predecessor 's administration  ,  and left office with considerable  लोकप्रियता  .
As a Coolidge biographer  put  it ,  ``  He  समाविष्ट  the  स्पिरिट  and hopes of the  मध्य  class  ,  could interpret their longings and express  उनके  opinions .
That he did represent  the  genius of the average is  the   सबसे  convincing proof of his strength . ''
Some  बाद  criticized Coolidge  as  part  of  a  सामान्य  criticism of laissez-faire government .
His reputation underwent  a  renaissance during the Ronald Reagan Administration  ,  but  the  ultimate  मूल्यांकन  of his presidency is still  विभाजित  between those who approve  of  his reduction  of  the size of  सरकारी  programs and those who believe  the   संघीय   सरकारी  should be more involved  in   regulating   और  controlling the economy .
Espresso is  a  concentrated beverage brewed by  forcing  a  छोटी  amount of nearly boiling  जल   अंतर्गत  pressure through finely ground coffee beans  .
Espresso often has a  thicker   संगति  than coffee brewed  by  other methods  ,  a  उच्चतर  concentration of suspended and dissolved  solids  ,  और  crema ( meaning cream , but being a reference to the foam with a  मलाईदार  texture that forms as a result of  the  pressure  )  .
as  a result of the pressurized brewing process the flavors and chemicals in a typical cup of espresso are very concentrated .
एस्प्रेसो   is  the base for other drinks , such as a latte , cappuccino , macchiato , mocha , or americano  .
Espresso has more caffeine per unit  आवाज़  than most beverages , but the usual serving size is smaller—a typical 60 mL ( 2  us  fluid ounce ) of espresso has 80 to  150  mg of  कैफीन   ,  little less than the 95  to  200  mg  of a standard 240 mL (  8  US fluid  औंस  ) cup of drip-brewed coffee  .
Brian  कैथ  Kelly ( born October 25 , 1961 ) is an American football  कोच  and former player .
He is currently the head football coach for  the  Notre Dame  लड़  Irish , a position  he  has  आयोजित  since  दिसम्बर  2009 .
Kelly was previously  सिर  coach at Grand Valley State University (  1991–2003  ) ,  सेंट्रल   मिशिगन   विश्वविद्यालयों  ( 2004–2006 ) ,  और  University of Cincinnati ( 2006–2009 ) .
A contract is an agreement having a lawful object entered  into  voluntarily by two or more parties , each of whom intends to create one or  अधिक  legal  दायित्वों  between them .
the  elements of  a  contract  हैं  `` offer ''  और  `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons  ''  having legal capacity who exchange `` consideration '' to  बनाएँ  ``  mutuality  of obligation . ''
Proof  of   कुछ   or  all of these  तत्व  may  be  done in writing ,  हालांकि  contracts may be made entirely orally  or  by conduct .
The  उपाय   लिये   उल्लंघन  of contract can be `` damages  ''  in the  रूप  of compensation of  धन  or specific  प्रदर्शन  enforced through an injunction .
Both of  ये  remedies award the party  at  loss the ``  लाभ  of  the   सौदेबाजी  '' or expectation damages , which are greater than mere reliance  क्षतिपूर्ति  , as in promissory estoppel  .
The parties may  be   प्राकृतिक   व्यक्तियों  or juristic persons .
a  contract is  a   legally  enforceable promise or undertaking that something will or will not  occur  .
The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract ,  हालांकि  care is required  as  a promise  may   नहीं  have the full standing of a contract , as when it is an agreement without consideration .
Contract law  varies   greatly  from one  क्षेत्राधिकार  to another , including differences in  आम  law compared to civil law , the impact of received law , particularly from England in  आम  law  देशों  ,  और  of law  संहिताबद्ध  in regional legislation .
Regarding  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  Contract Law for example , there are  40  relevant  अधिनियमों   जिससे  impact on  the  interpretation of contract  at  the Commonwealth (  संघीय  / national ) level  ,  and an additional 26 acts  at  the level  of   the  state of NSW .
In addition there are  6  international instruments or conventions which are applicable for international  dealings  ,  ऐसे  as the  संयुक्त   राष्ट्र  Convention on  अनुबंध   लिये  the International  बिक्री   of  Goods .
Sidney Patrick Crosby  ,  ONS ( born August 7 , 1987 ) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player who is  कप्तान   of  the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League (  एनएचएल  ) .
Crosby was drafted first overall by the Penguins out  of  the Quebec  प्रमुख  Junior Hockey League ( QMJHL ) .
During his two-year major junior career with the Rimouski  océanic   ,  he earned back-to-back CHL Player  of  the Year  पुरस्कार  and  led  his club to the 2005 Memorial  कप  final .
Nicknamed `` The Next One `` , he was one of the most highly regarded draft picks in hockey history , leading  अनेक   to  refer to the 2005 Draft Lottery as the `` Sidney Crosby  sweepstakes  ''  .
In his first NHL  ऋतु   ,  Crosby finished sixth  in  league scoring with  102  points ( 39 goals , 63 assists ) and was a runner-up for the Calder  मेमोरियल  Trophy ( won by  सिकंदर  Ovechkin  )   .
By his second  ऋतु  , he  led  the  एनएचएल  with 120  अंक  ( 36 goals , 84 assists  )  to capture the Art Ross  ट्रॉफी  ,  बनने  the youngest player and the only  किशोरावस्था  to win a scoring  शीर्षक   in  any major  उत्तर  American sports league .
That same season ,  crosby  also won the  हार्ट  Memorial Trophy as  the   पेशेवर   हॉकी   लेखक   संघ   's   चुनाव  for most valuable  खिलाड़ी  and  the  Lester B. Pearson Award  as  the NHL Players  संघ   's  choice for most  बकाया   खिलाड़ी  ,  बनने  the seventh player in NHL history  to  earn all three awards in one year .
Crosby  प्रारंभ  the 2007–08 season with the team 's  कप्तानी   और   subsequently  led them  to  the 2008 Stanley Cup Finals  ,  where  वे  were defeated  by   the  Detroit Red Wings in six games .
The Penguins returned to the  फाइनल  against  डेट्रॉयट   the  following  साल  and won  in  seven  खेल   ;  Crosby became  the  youngest captain in NHL history to win  the  Stanley Cup .
In the  2009–10  season ,  crosby  scored a career-high  51  goals , tying him with Steven Stamkos for the Rocket Richard Trophy as  the  league-leader ; with 58  assists   ,   he  totaled 109 points , second in the NHL  .
दौरान  the  off-season   ,  Crosby received  the  Mark Messier Leadership Award .
In  2010–11  , Crosby sustained  a  concussion as a result of hits  to  the head in back-to-back games .
The injury left him sidelined for ten and a  हाफ  months .
However , after playing eight games  in  the 2011–12  ऋतु   ,  Crosby 's concussion-like  लक्षण  returned in December  2011   ,   और  he did  नहीं   वापसी   जबतक  mid-March 2012 .
Internationally , Crosby  रै  represented Canada in numerous tournaments for the country 's junior and men  's  teams .
बाद  competing  in  the 2003 U-18  जूनियर  World Cup  ,  he represented Canada in back-to-back IIHF World U20 Championships , winning silver in 2004 and gold  in  2005 .
At the 2006 IIHF World Championship  ,  he led  the   टूर्नामेंट   in  scoring  ,   जबकि   भी  earning Top Forward and  all-star   टोली  honours .
Four years later , Crosby  थी  named to Team Canada for the 2010 Winter Olympics  in   वैंकूवर  .
Playing the United States  in   the  gold medal  खेल   ,  he scored  the  game-winning goal  in   ओवरटाइम  .
a  United States  cent  , also known  as  a penny .
`` My  दो  cents '' (  2¢  )  और   इसके  longer version `` put  my  two cents in '' is an United States ( US ) idiomatic expression  ,  taken from the original English idiom expression : to put in  ``  my two pennies worth '' or `` my tuppence worth  .   ''
It  is  used  to  preface  the  tentative stating of  one’s   राय   .
By deprecating the opinion to follow – suggesting its value is only two cents , a very small amount  –   the  user of the phrase hopes to lessen  the  impact  of   a  possibly statement , showing  politeness  and humility  .
However , it  is   भी  sometimes used with irony when expressing  a  strongly felt opinion .
the  phrase is also  प्रयुक्त  out of habit to preface uncontentious opinions  .
लिये  example:
The  चाइनीज  Civil  युद्ध   थी  a civil war in China fought between forces  वफ़ादार  to  the  government of  the  Republic of China led by the  kuomintang   (  KMT  )  and  शक्तियां  of the Communist Party of China ( CPC  )  .
The war began  in  April 1927 , amidst the  उत्तरी   expedition   ,  and  essentially  ended when major active battles ceased in  1950  .
The conflict  आखिरकार  resulted in two de  facto  states ,  the  Republic of China  (  ROC ) in Taiwan and the People 's Republic of China ( PRC ) in mainland China , both claiming to be  the  legitimate government of China  .
The  युद्ध  represented an  वैचारिक  split ( Left vs . Right ) between the Communist CPC  ,   और  the KMT 's brand of  राष्ट्रवाद   .
The civil  युद्ध   जारी   intermittently  until late 1937 ,  जब  the two parties formed a Second United Front to  काउंटर  a  जापानी   आक्रमण   .
China 's  full-scale  civil  युद्ध  resumed in  1946  , a year after the end of  hostilities  with Japan  .
After four more  सालो   ,  1950  देखी  the cessation of major military hostilities—with the  newly  founded People 's Republic of China controlling mainland China ( including Hainan ) , and the Republic of China  's  jurisdiction being restricted to Taiwan , Penghu , Quemoy , Matsu and  अनेक   outlying  islands .
The  kuomintang   शिकस्त  is attributed to several factors  :  Corruption - Chiang  लिखा  in his  डायरी  on  जून  1948 that the KMT  था  failed , not because of external enemies but because of rot from within  .
दमदार  initial support from the U.S.  diminished  ,  और   तब  , stopped .
(  Partly because of KMT  भ्रष्टाचार   और  anti-democratic regime , and partly because  of   the  uncertain U.S. foreign policy  towards  Communism  between  1945  और  1950 ) ; Communist land  सुधार   नीति  promised poor  peasants  farmland  इससे  their  जमींदार  .
इस  ensured  pla  popular support .
After the surrender  of  Japan at the end  of   संसार  War II  ,  Soviet forces  turned   over  their captured Japanese  हथियार   to  the CPC and allowed the CPC  to  take  कंट्रोल  of territory in  मंचूरिया  .
To this day , no armistice or peace treaty has ever been signed , and  it  is  debated  as to the whether the Civil War has legally ended .
Cross-Strait  संबंध   have  been hindered  by  military threats and political and economic pressure ,  विशेषकर  over Taiwan  's  political status , with both governments officially adhering to a `` One-China policy . ''
The  पीआरसी  still  actively  claims  ताईवान  as part  of  its territory and continues to threaten the ROC with a military invasion if the ROC officially  declares  independence by changing its name to and gaining international recognition as the Republic of Taiwan  .
The ROC  mutually  claims mainland China , and they both continue the fight over  राजनयिक  recognition .
Today ,  the  war as such occurs on  the  political  और  economic fronts in the form of cross-Strait  संबंध   ;  however , the two separate de facto states have close  आर्थिक  ties .
The  एक  Hundred Twelfth  संयुक्त  States Congress was the meeting of the legislative  शाखा   of   the  United States federal government , from January 3 , 2011 until January  3  , 2013 .
it   convened  in Washington , D.C.  on  January 3 , 2011 , and ended on January 3 ,  2013  , 17 days  पहले  the  समाप्त   of  the  अध्यक्षीय  term  to  which Barack Obama was elected in  2008  .
Senators  निर्वाचित  to regular terms in  2006  completed those terms in this  कॉंग्रेस  .
This Congress included  the  last House of  प्रतिनिधि  elected from  congressional  districts  कि  were  apportioned   आधारित  on the 2000 census  .
In the 2010 midterm elections , the Republican Party won the majority  in  the House of Representatives .
While  the   डेमोक्रेट  kept  उनके  Senate majority , it was reduced  इससे  the previous Congress .
This was the first  कॉंग्रेस  in which  the  House and Senate were controlled by  अलग   पार्टियों  since the 107th Congress ( 2001–2003  )   ,  and the first Congress to  शुरू  that way since the  99th   कॉंग्रेस  ( 1985–1987 ) .
In this Congress , the House  of  Representatives had the largest number of  रिपब्लिकन  members ,  242  , since the 80th Congress (  1947–1949  ) .
It was also the first Congress  चूंकि  1947 in which no member of the Kennedy family served , as well as the most politically polarized Congress since Reconstruction , with record low  स्वीकृति  ratings .
Wealth in  the  United States is commonly measured in terms of net worth  ,  which is the sum of all assets , including home equity , minus all  देनदारी  .
The total net worth of US households and nonprofit  संगठन   1945–2009   ,   unadjusted  for inflation or population change  .
For example , a  household   in  possession  of   an  $  800,000  house  ,  $ 5,000 in  परस्पर  funds , $ 30,000 in cars , $  20,000  worth  of  stock in their  अपना   कम्पनी  , and a  $  45,000  ira  would have assets totaling $ 900,000 .
Assuming that this household would have a $ 250,000 mortgage , $ 40,000 in  car  loans , and $ 10,000  in  credit card debt , its debts  होता   कुल  $  300,000  .
Subtracting the debts from  the  worth of  इस   household  's assets  (  900,000 - $ 300,000 =  $  600,000 ) , this household would have a  जाल   लायक  of $ 600,000 .
Net worth can vary with fluctuations in value of the underlying  एसेट  .
The wealth —more specifically , the median net worth—of households in the United States  is  varied  साथ   संबंध  to race ,  शिक्षा  , geographic location and gender .
As  एक  would expect  ,  households with greater income  विशेषता  the highest net worths , though high  आय  can not be taken as an always accurate  indicator  of net worth  .
Overall the number of wealthier households is on the rise , with baby boomers  hitting   the  highs of their  करियर   .
In addition  ,  wealth is unevenly distributed ,  साथ  the wealthiest 25 % of US  households  owning 87 % of the wealth in the United States , which  थी  $ 54.2 trillion in 2009 .
Including  इंसान  capital such as skills , the United Nations estimated the total wealth  of  the United States in 2008 to be $ 118  खरब   .
This article deals with Selective  पृष्ठीय  Rhizotomy  (   sdr  ) rather than the rhizotomy procedures for pain relief ; for those procedures , which have begun to take the  नाम  ``  rhizotomy  ''  in   निश्चित  instances , see  facet  rhizotomy and  समान   .
A rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly referring to  a  neurosurgical procedure  कि  selectively destroys  समस्यापूर्ण  nerve roots in the spinal cord , most often to  relieve  the symptoms of neuromuscular conditions  ऐसे  as spastic diplegia  और  other forms of spastic cerebral palsy .
The selective dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR )  लिये  spastic cerebral palsy has been the main  उपयोग  of rhizotomy for neurosurgeons specialising in spastic CP  चूंकि   the  1980s ; in this surgery , the spasticity-causing nerves  हैं  isolated and then targeted  और  destroyed .
The sensory nerve  जड़ें  , where spasticity is located , are first separated from the motor ones ,  और   the   तंत्रिका  fibres to be  काटें  are  तब  identified via  electromyographic  stimulation .
The ones producing spasticity are  तब   selectively   lesioned  with  छोटा  electrical  pulses  .
In spasticity , rhizotomy precisely targets  और  destroys the damaged  nerves   कि  don’t receive gamma amino butyric  एसिड  , which is the core  प्रॉब्लम  for people with spastic cerebral palsy .
These over-firing , non-GABA-absorbing nerves generate unusual electrical activity during the EMG  परीक्षण  phase in SDR  और  are thus  माना  to be the source of the  रोगी  's  hypertonia  ; they are eliminated with the  विद्युत  pulses  एकबार  identified  ,  while  the  remaining nerves and nerve routes carrying the  सही   संदेश  remain fully intact and untouched .
This means that the spasticity is permanently dissolved ,  और  that  इस  is done  बगैर  affecting nervous system sensitivity or function in  अन्य  areas , because the only nerves  नष्ट   हैं  the  over-firing  ones  जिम्मेदार  for the  मांसपेशी  tightness .
The terms rhizotomy and neurotomy are  भी  increasingly becoming interchangeable in the treatment of chronic back pain from degenerative disc disease .
This is a procedure called a  facet  rhizotomy  और  is  नहीं  a surgical procedure  लकिन  is instead done  on  an outpatient basis using a simple probe to apply  radiofrequency  waves  to  the  impinged  pain-causing nerve root  lying  between  the  facet joint and  the  vertebral body  .
Such radio frequency nerve lesioning results in five to  आठ  or more months of pain relief before  the  nerve regenerates and another round  of  the  कार्यविधि  needs to be performed .
a  facet rhizotomy is just one  of   अनेक  different forms of radiofrequency ablation ,  और  its use of the `` rhizotomy '' name should  नहीं  be confused with the SDR procedure .
migrant  workers in California , 1935
the  term  migrant  worker has different  आधिकारिक   meanings  and connotations in different parts of the world .
The United  राष्ट्र  '  परिभाषा  is  व्यापक  , including any people  working   बाहर  of  उनके  home country .
The term can  भी  be used to describe  किसी  who migrates  भीतर  a country , possibly their  अपना  , in  अनुक्रम  to pursue work such  as  seasonal work  .
Photograph of Lil Wayne with teardrop tattoos below his eyes .
The  teardrop  tattoo  or   आंसू  tattoo is a  सांकेतिक  tattoo that is placed underneath the eye .
It has no fixed meaning but  लगभग   सब  meanings  (  see below ) have some  कनेक्शन  to prison .
U.S.  रूट  75 is a north–south  u.S.  Highway .
The highway 's northern terminus is in  kittson  County , Minnesota  ,  at the Canadian border , where it once continued  as  Manitoba Highway 75 on the other side of  the  now-closed border crossing .
Its  दक्षिणी  terminus  is  at  अंतरराज्यीय   30  and Interstate 45  in  Dallas , Texas , where it is known  as  North  सेंट्रल   एक्सप्रेसवे  .
U.S. 75 was a  border-to-border  route , from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico at  galveston  , Texas .
However ,  the  entire segment  दक्षिण   of   डलास  , Texas has been decommissioned in favor  of  Interstate 45 , a cutoff section of town-to-town surface road having become State Highway 75 .
निम्नतर  Ninth Ward is  a  neighborhood  of  the city of New  ऑरलियन्स   .
as  the name  implies  , it is part of the  नवीं  Ward of New Orleans .
The Lower Ninth Ward is  प्रायः  thought  of  as the entire  क्षेत्रफल  within  नई  Orleans downriver of the Industrial  कनाल  ; however  ,   the  City Planning Commission divides  इस  area into the Lower Ninth Ward ( 2 ) and  पावन  Cross  (   3  ) neighborhoods .
The  पद  `` Lower ''  refers  to its location farther towards the  मुँह   of   the  Mississippi River , `` down '' or  ``   नीचे  '' the rest of the  नगर  in local geographic terminology .
But the 9th Ward , like all  wards  in  नई  Orleans , is a voting district .
The 9th Ward was added as a voting district  in  1852  .
The `` lower '' 9th Ward is composed of Ward 9 Districts 1 ,  2  , 4 , and  7   जिससे   मेक  up  the  Holy Cross Area and  वार्ड   9  Districts 3 , 5 , 6 , and 8 .
Higher voting district numbers in the 9th Ward ( 8-27 ) are on  the  upriver side  of   the   औद्योगिक  Canal .
The area came  to  national attention for  इसके   devastation  in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina  in  2005 .
Hubble  दृश्य  of Copernicus  crater  ( inset ) , which is about 58  मील  ( 93 km  )   चौड़ी
रेड   और  orange tinted  चंद्रमा  ,  as  seen from Earth  दौरान  a lunar eclipse  ,  where the Earth  आता  between  the  Moon and Sun
the  Moon is the only  प्राकृतिक  satellite of the Earth , and the fifth  largest  satellite in the  सौर  System .
it   is  the  largest  natural satellite of a planet in  the  Solar System relative to the size of its primary , having 27 %  the  diameter and 60 % the density of Earth , resulting in its mass .
The Moon is the second  densest  satellite after Io ,  a  satellite  of   बृहस्पति  .
The Moon is in synchronous rotation  साथ   धरती   ,  always  प्रर्दशित  the same face with its near side marked by  अंधेरा  volcanic maria that fill between the bright ancient crustal highlands  और  the prominent impact craters .
It  is  the brightest object  in  the sky after the Sun , although its  सतह  is  दरअसल  very dark , with  a   reflectance  similar to that of coal .
Its prominence in the sky  और  its  नियमित   साईकिल  of  phases  have , since ancient times  ,  made the Moon  an  important cultural  influence   on   भाषा   ,  calendars , art  और  mythology  .
the  Moon 's gravitational influence produces  the  ocean tides  और   the  minute  lengthening  of the day .
The Moon 's  वर्तमान   कक्षीय   अलहदा   ,  about thirty times the diameter  of   the  Earth , causes it to appear almost the same  आकार   in   the  sky  as  the Sun , allowing it to cover the  सूर्य   nearly  precisely in total solar eclipses .
This  मिलान  of apparent visual  आकार   is  a coincidence .
the  Moon 's linear distance from the Earth is currently increasing at  a  rate of 3.82±0.07cm per  साल  , but this rate is not constant .
The Moon is  विचार   to   have  formed nearly 4.5 billion  सालो  ago , not long after the  धरती  .
Although there have been several hypotheses for its origin  in  the past , the current  सबसे  widely accepted explanation is  कि   the  Moon  formed  from  the   मलबा  left  over  after a giant  प्रभाव   between  Earth  और  a Mars -sized body .
The Moon is the only celestial body  अन्य  than Earth  on   जिससे  humans have  नियत  foot .
the  Soviet Union 's Luna programme was  the  first  to  reach  the  Moon  साथ  unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the United States '  नासा  Apollo program achieved  the  only manned  मिशन  to  तिथि  , beginning with the first manned lunar orbiting mission by Apollo 8 in 1968  ,   और   छह  manned  चंद्र  landings between 1969 and 1972 , with the first being  अपोलो  11  .
These missions returned  over  380 kg  of  lunar  रॉक्स  , which have been used  to  develop  a   geological  understanding of the Moon 's  origins  , the  गठन  of its internal structure , and its  subsequent   इतिहास  .
After the Apollo 17 mission  in  1972 , the Moon  रै   महरूम  visited  तभी  by unmanned  spacecraft  ,  notably  by  the  final Soviet  lunokhod  rover .
Since 2004  ,  Japan , China , India , the United States , and the European Space Agency  have  each sent lunar orbiters .
These spacecraft have contributed to confirming the discovery  of  lunar water ice in permanently  shadowed  craters at the  डंडे  and bound into the lunar regolith .
Future manned missions to the  चंद्रमा   have   महरूम  planned , including government as well as privately funded efforts .
The Moon remains , under the  बाहरी  Space Treaty  ,  free to all  राष्ट्र  to explore for peaceful purposes  .
Ronald Wilson  reagan  ( ; February 6 , 1911  –  June 5 , 2004 ) was  the  40th President of  the  United States (  1981–1989  )  .
Prior to that , he was the 33rd Governor  of   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ( 1967–1975  )  , and a radio  ,  film  और   टेलीविज़न   कर्ता  .
born  in  tampico   ,   इलिनोइस   ,   और  raised  in  Dixon , Reagan was educated at Eureka  कॉलेज  , earning a Bachelor of Arts  उपाधि  in economics and sociology .
बाद  graduating , Reagan moved first to Iowa to work as a  रेडियो  broadcaster and then , in 1937 , to Los  एंजिल्स   जहाँ  he began  a  career  as  an actor , first in films  और   बाद  television .
Some  of   उसके  most notable  films  include  knute  Rockne , All American ( 1940 ) ,  किंग्स  Row ( 1942 ) , and Bedtime  लिये  Bonzo ( 1951 ) .
reagan  served as President of the  स्क्रीन   अभिनेताओं   गिल्ड  and later as  a   प्रवक्ता  for General  इलेक्ट्रिक  ( GE  )  ; his start in politics occurred  दौरान  his work for GE .
originally  a member of the Democratic  पार्टी  , his positions began shifting rightward in the 1950s ,  और  he switched to the Republican Party in 1962  .
After delivering  a  rousing  वाक  in support of Barry Goldwater 's presidential candidacy in 1964 , he was persuaded to seek the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  governorship  ,  winning  दो  years later and again in 1970 .
He  थी  defeated  in  his run for the  रिपब्लिकन  presidential  नामांकन  in 1968 and in 1976 , but won both the nomination  और  general election in 1980 ,  defeating  incumbent  jimmy   कार्टर  .
As president , Reagan implemented sweeping new political and  आर्थिक  initiatives .
उसके   supply-side  economic policies , dubbed  ``   reaganomics  `` , advocated reducing tax rates to spur economic growth ,  controlling  the money supply to reduce inflation ,  deregulation  of the economy , and reducing government spending .
In his first term he survived  an  assassination attempt ,  took  a hard line against  मजदूर  unions  ,  announced a new War on Drugs , and ordered an invasion of  हरा   .
He was re-elected in a landslide in 1984 , proclaiming that it was `` Morning in America  ``  .
His  दूसरी  term was  primarily  marked by foreign matters , such as the ending of the Cold War , the 1986 bombing of Libya , and the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair .
Publicly describing the  सोवियत  Union as an  ``  evil empire `` , he supported anti-communist movements worldwide  और  spent his first term forgoing the strategy  of  détente by  ordering  a massive military buildup  in  an arms  रेस  with the USSR  .
Reagan  negotiated   साथ   सोवियत  General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev , culminating in the INF Treaty  और  the decrease of  दोनो  countries  '  nuclear arsenals .
Reagan left office in 1989  .
In 1994 ,  the  former president  disclosed   कि  he had been diagnosed with  अल्जाइमर  's disease earlier in the year ;  he   died  ten years  बाद  at the age of  93   .
A conservative icon , he ranks highly in public opinion  पोल  of  u.S.   राष्ट्रपतियों  and  is  credited for generating an ideological renaissance on the American  राजनैतिक  right .
Complete set  of  scrolls  ,  constituting the entire Tanakh .
the  Tanakh (  ,  or  ;  also Tenakh , Tenak  ,  Tanach ) is a name used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible .
The Tanakh is also known  as  the Masoretic Text or the Miqra  .
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : The Torah ( `` Teaching  ''  , also known  as   the  Five Books  of  Moses )  ,  Nevi'im  (  `` Prophets ''  )  and Ketuvim ( `` Writings  ''  ) —hence TaNaKh .
the  name `` Miqra ''  (  מקרא ) , meaning  ``   कि  which is read ''  ,  is an alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh .
the  books  of   the  Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral tradition  passed   on  by each generation  ,   पुकारा  the Oral Torah .
The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R  is  a  कावासाकी  600 cc class  खेल  motorcycle .
it  was introduced in  1995  ,  और   रै   महरूम  constantly  अद्यतनीकृत  throughout the years in response to new products from Honda  ,   suzuki   ,  and Yamaha .
The ZX series  is  what was known as the Ninja line of Kawasaki motorcycles in the 1980s and still carries the name  आज  .
Assassination attempts and  भूखंड  on Presidents of the United States have been  numerous   :  more than 20 attempts  to   मार  sitting and former presidents , as well as the Presidents-elect , are known  .
Four  बैठे   राष्ट्रपतियों   have  been killed  :  Abraham Lincoln ( the 16th President  )  , James A. Garfield ( the 20th President  )   ,  William McKinley (  the   25th   अध्यक्ष   )  and John F. Kennedy  (   the  35th President ) .
Two presidents were injured in attempted assassinations  :  former  अध्यक्ष   थियोडोर  Roosevelt  (  the 26th President ) , and President Ronald Reagan ( the 40th President ) .
Although  the  historian J.W .  क्लार्क  has suggested  कि  most American assassinations were politically motivated  क्रियाएँ   ,  carried  आउट  by rational men , not all such attacks have been  undertaken  for political  कारण  .
Some  हमलावर  had questionable mental stability ,  और  a few were judged legally insane .
चूंकि   the   वाइस  President  of   the  United  राज्य  has for  अधिक  than a century been elected  इससे   the   वही  political party as the  अध्यक्ष   ,  the assassination of the President is unlikely  to  result  in  major  नीति  changes .
This may explain why political groups typically do not make such attacks  .
जहाँ  the  रेड  Fern  grows  is a novel  लिखा  by Wilson Rawls  in  1961  परिचय   a  boy who  खरीदता  and trains two Redbone Coonhound hunting  कुत्तो  .
Oklahoma  (   )  (  pawnee  : Uukuhuúwa , Cayuga : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in  वेस्ट  South Central United  राज्य  .
Oklahoma is the 20th  सबसे  extensive and the 28th most populous of the 50 United  राज्य  .
The state 's name  is  derived from the  choctaw   शब्द  okla and  humma  , meaning  ``  red people '' , and it  is  known informally by its  उपनाम  , The Sooner State .
formed  by  the  combination of Oklahoma Territory  और  Indian Territory  on   नवम्बर   16  , 1907 , Oklahoma was  the  46th  राज्य  to enter  the  union .
Its residents are known  as  Oklahomans or  ,  informally  ``  Okies ''  ,  and its  पूंजी  and largest  नगर  is Oklahoma City  .
a  major producer of natural gas , oil , and agriculture , Oklahoma relies on an economic base of aviation , energy ,  दूरसंचार  , and  जैवप्रौद्योगिकी  .
it  has one  of   the  fastest  growing   economies  in  the  nation , ranking among the top states in per  capita   आय   विकास  and gross domestic product growth .
Oklahoma  नगर  and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors , with nearly two thirds  of   oklahomans   जीना  within  उनके   महानगर   सांख्यिकीय  areas  .
With small  पहाड़   सीमाएँ  , prairie ,  mesas  , and eastern forests , most of  ओक्लाहोमा  lies in the Great  मैदान  and the U.S . Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather .
In addition to having a prevalence of  अंग्रेज़ी  , German , Scottish , Irish and Native American ancestry , more than  25  Native American languages are spoken  in  Oklahoma  ,   दूसरी  only to California .
Oklahoma is located on a  संगम   of  three major American  सांस्कृतिक  regions and  historically  served  as  a route for  चौपायों  drives , a destination for southern settlers  ,  and  a   government-sanctioned   territory  for Native Americans .
Redwall ,  by  Brian  ज़ाक   ,  is  a   श्रेणी  of  children  's  काल्पनिक  novels .
It is  the   शीर्षक   of  the  पहला  book of the series ,  प्रकाशित  in 1986 , as well as the name  of  the  ऐबी  featured in the book and the name of an animated TV series based on  तीन  of the novels  (   redwall  , Mattimeo , and Martin the Warrior  )  , which first aired in 1999 .
the  books are primarily aimed at older children , but have fans of all ages  .
There have been twenty-two  novels  and  दो  picture books published .
The  twenty-second  , and final , novel , The Rogue Crew , was posthumously released on May 3 , 2011 .
प्राकृतिक  Gas is usually  measured  by volume in the United States and is stated  in  cubic feet .
A cubic  पैर   of  gas is  the  amount of gas needed to fill a volume  of  one cubic foot under set conditions of pressure and temperature.To measure larger  amounts  of natural gas , a  ``   therm  '' is used to denote 100  घन   फीट  , and `` mcf '' is  प्रयुक्त  to denote 1,000 cubic feet .
To provide greater accuracy in comparing fuels , energy content  is  measured in terms of ``  अंग्रेजों  Thermal Units ( BTU 's )  .  ''
A BTU is the  राशि  of heat required to raise one pound  of  water ( approximately a pint  )   ,  one degree Fahrenheit at or close to its point of maximum density .
One  अंग्रेजों  therm ( symbol thm ) is a non-  si  unit  of  heat  उर्जा   बराबर  to 100,000 British thermal units  (  BTU  )  .
It  is  approximately the energy equivalent of burning  100   घन  feet ( often referred to as 1 CCF ) of natural gas .
Since ( Natural Gas  )   मीटर  measure volume and not energy  सामग्री  ,  a  therm factor  is  used by ( Natural ) gas companies  to  convert the volume of gas  प्रयुक्त   to  its heat equivalent  ,  and thus calculate the actual energy use .
The  therm   फ़ैक्टर   is   प्रायः  in the units therms/CCF  .
it   होगा  vary with the mix of hydrocarbons  in  the  प्राकृतिक  gas .
Natural gas with a  उच्चतर  than average  विशेषज्ञता  of ethane , propane or  ब्यूटेन   होगा   have  a higher therm  फ़ैक्टर  .
Impurities ,  ऐसे  as carbon dioxide  or   नाइट्रोजन  , lower the therm factor .
The volume of the gas is calculated  as  if  measured  at  मानक  temperature and pressure ( STP )  .
The  ऊष्मा  content of  प्राकृतिक  gas is solely dependent on the composition of the gas  ,   और  is  स्वतंत्र  of temperature and pressure .
One  therm  is equal to about 105.5 megajoules ,  25,200   kilocalories  or 29.3 kilowatt-hours .
One therm can also be  provided  by about of natural gas  .
The therm  sometimes   रै  been confused with the thermie  (  see below ) .
the  names of both units come  इससे   the  Greek  शब्द  for  ऊष्मा  .
A thermie ( th ) is a  मीट्रिक   ईकाई  of heat energy ,  भाग  of  the  meter-tonne-second system sometimes used by European  इंजीनियर्स  .
The thermie is equal to the amount of energy  जरूरी  to raise the temperature of 1 tonne of water by  1  °C .
The thermie is equivalent  to  1,000 kilocalories , 4.1868  megajoules  or 3968.3 BTU .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also  ज्ञात  as the  युद्ध   between  the States or simply  the  Civil War ( see naming  )   ,  was a  सिविल  war  लड़ा  from 1861  to  1865 between the United States ( the  ``  Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their  secession  and  formed   the  Confederate States of America  (  the `` Confederacy  ''  or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the  समस्या  of slavery , especially the  एक्सटेंशन   of  slavery into the western territories .
Foreign  शक्तियां  did not intervene .
After four years  of  bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers  मुर्दे  and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure ,  the  Confederacy collapsed , slavery  थी  abolished , and the difficult  पुनर्निर्माण  process of restoring  नेशनल   एकता  and guaranteeing  अधिकारों   to  the freed  स्लेव  began .
In  the  1860 presidential election , Republicans , led  by  Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery  into  United States ' territories .
Lincoln won ,  लकिन  before his inauguration on March 4 ,  1861  , seven cotton-based slave states formed  the  Confederacy  .
Outgoing Democratic President  जेम्स  Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as  illegal  .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared  उसके  administration  होता   नहीं  initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave  राज्य  continued to  अस्वीकृत  calls for  secession  .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts  भीतर  territory  claimed  by  the  Confederacy .
a  Peace Conference failed to find a compromise , and both sides prepared for war .
The Confederates  assumed  that European  देशों  were so dependent  on  ``  किंग   कपास  `` that they would intervene ;  none  did and none recognized the new Confederate  राज्य   of  America  .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon Fort  sumter  , a key fort  आयोजित  by Union troops in  दक्षिण  Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to  retake  the fort ;  नतीजतन   ,  four more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven  .
the   संघ  soon controlled the  किनारा  states and established a naval blockade that crippled the  दक्षिणी  economy .
The  पूर्वी  Theater  थी  inconclusive  in   1861–62  .
The autumn 1862 Confederate  अभियान  into Maryland  (  a Union state )  ended   साथ  Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the  emancipation  Proclamation , which made ending  गुलामी   a  war goal .
To  the  west ,  by  summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy ,  तब   much  of their western  सेना  , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in  दो  at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion  उत्तर   ended  at the Battle of Gettysburg  .
Western successes  led  to Ulysses  S.  Grant  कमांड  of all Union  सेना  in 1864 .
In  the  Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to  कैप्चर  Atlanta  और  marched to  the  sea , destroying Confederate  अवसंरचना  along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to  आक्रमण  the Confederacy from  सब  directions ,  और  could afford  to   लड़ो   लड़ाइयों  of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond  ,   the  Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army  विफल  ,  अग्रणी  to  ली  's surrender to Grant at Appomattox  अदालत  House on April 9 , 1865  .
The American Civil War was  एक  of the  earliest  true industrial wars .
Railroads , the  टेलीग्राफ  , steamships , and  mass-produced  weapons  यहूद  employed extensively  .
The  mobilization  of civilian factories , mines , shipyards  ,  banks  ,  transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed  संसार  War I  .
It remains the deadliest war in American history , resulting  in  the deaths of an  अनुमानित  750,000 soldiers and an  undetermined  number of civilian casualties .
Historian John  huddleston   estimates  the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45  सालो  old , and 30  प्रतिशत  of all Southern white  males  aged 18–40 .
William Bruce Jenner ( born October 28  ,  1949 ) is a  पूर्व  U.S.  track   और  field athlete , motivational speaker  ,  socialite , television personality and businessman .
He won the gold  पदक  for decathlon in  the  Montreal 1976 Summer Olympics  .
Following his Olympic  जीत   और  the  सम्बन्धित  recognition  ,  he married Kris Kardashian ,  और  his professional  करियर  evolved into being a television celebrity .
by  1981 , he had starred in several made-for-TV movies and was Erik Estrada 's replacement on the top rated TV series CHiPs .
He has six children : Burt , Casey , Brandon , Brody  ,  Kendall and Kylie .
Since his 1991  विवाह  to Kris Jenner , he  is  the stepfather to Kourtney , Kim ,  khloe  and  रोब  Kardashian .
चूंकि   2007  ,  he  has appeared  साथ  his blended family on Keeping Up with the  kardashians   .
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly abbreviated E. coli )  is  a  gram-negative  , rod-shaped bacterium that is  commonly   मिला  in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms )  .
सबसे  E. coli strains are harmless ,  लकिन  some serotypes can  कारण  serious  खाना  poisoning in  इंसानो   ,  and are occasionally responsible for product recalls due to food  संदूषण  .
The harmless strains  हैं  part of the normal flora of the gut ,  और  can  लाभ  their hosts by producing vitamin K2 , and by preventing the  स्थापना  of  रोगजनक  bacteria within the intestine .
E. coli and related bacteria constitute about  0.1   %  of  आंत  flora  ,  and fecal–oral transmission is the  प्रमुख  route through which pathogenic strains of the bacterium cause disease .
Cells are able to survive outside the body for a limited amount of time , which makes them ideal indicator organisms  to  test environmental  नमूने  for  fecal  contamination .
There is  ,  however , a growing body  of  research that  रै   examined  environmentally persistent E. coli  जिससे  can survive  लिये  extended periods  बाहर  of  the  host .
The  bacterium  can also  be  grown  easily  and inexpensively in a laboratory setting , and has been intensively investigated for over 60 years .
E. coli  is  the most widely studied prokaryotic model  सजीव  , and an important species in  the  fields of biotechnology and microbiology ,  जहाँ  it  रै  served  as  the host organism for  the   बहुमत  of work with recombinant DNA .
Area  कोड  217 is  the  North  अमरीकी  telephone  क्षेत्रफल   कोड  for much  of   पश्चिमी  and central  इलिनोइस  .
The  217  area includes Illinois '  पूंजी  , Springfield  ,  plus Champaign , Urbana ,  decatur  ,  danville  , Quincy , and Rantoul .
217 was  एक  of the original area codes , which were  निर्मित  in 1947 .
The only significant  बदलें   in  217 's  सीमाएँ  was in 1957 , when its northern portion was combined with part of area code 815 to form area code 309 .
चित्र  of the  largest  Antarctic ozone hole ever recorded (  सितंबर  2006 ) , over the Southern pole
Layers of the atmosphere ( not  to  scale )
Ozone depletion describes two distinct  लकिन  related phenomena observed since the late 1970s :  a  steady  मनाही  of about 4 % per  दशक  in the total volume of  ओज़ोन  in Earth 's stratosphere  (  the ozone layer )  ,  and  a  much  larger   springtime  decrease in stratospheric  ओज़ोन   over  Earth 's polar regions  .
The latter phenomenon is referred to as the ozone hole .
In addition to these well-known stratospheric phenomena , there are  भी  springtime polar  tropospheric  ozone depletion events .
the   विवरण  of polar ozone hole formation differ  इससे   कि  of mid-latitude thinning , but the  सबसे  important process in both is catalytic destruction of ozone by atomic halogens .
the   प्रमुख  source of  ये  halogen atoms in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made  halocarbon  refrigerants ( CFCs  ,  freons ,  halons  ) .
These  यौगिकों  are transported into  the  stratosphere after  होने   उत्सर्जित  at  the  surface  .
Both types of ozone depletion were observed to increase  as  emissions of halo-carbons  increased   .
CFCs and other  contributory  substances are  referred  to  as  ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ) .
चूंकि  the  ओज़ोन  layer  रोकता  most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm )  of  ultraviolet light ( UV light )  इससे  passing through the Earth 's atmosphere , observed and projected  decreases  in ozone have generated worldwide concern leading to  अपनाना  of  the  Montreal Protocol that bans the production of CFCs , halons , and other ozone-depleting chemicals such as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane .
It  is  suspected that a variety  of   biological   consequences  such as increases in skin cancer , cataracts ,  क्षति   to  plants , and reduction of plankton populations in  the  ocean 's photic zone  may  result from the increased UV exposure due to ozone depletion .
The  प्रस्तावना  to the United  राज्य  Constitution is a brief introductory statement of the Constitution 's fundamental purposes and guiding  सिद्धान्त   .
It states  in  general terms ,  और  courts  have  referred to it  as  reliable evidence of , the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning and what they hoped the Constitution would  achieve  as it pertains  to  all of the people of the  संयुक्त  States .
As  the   phrase  ,  ``  we the people '' suggests that the new government originates  इससे   the  people of the United States and it sets into motion a question as it  pertains   to  that  विशाल  population concerning the individual  अधिकारों  and equality among all people ;  इस  can be seen  सबसे  broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy  .
Czechoslovakian shot putter Plihan at the 1957 East  जर्मनी   अंदर   एथलेटिक्स  Championships
The  शॉट  put (  सुनाया  ) is a track  और  field event involving `` throwing  ''  / ''  putting  ''  (   फेंकना  in a pushing motion  )  a  भारी  spherical object —the  shot—as  far as possible .
The  शॉट  put competition for men has been a part of the modern Olympics since  उनके  revival in 1896  ,  women 's competition began in 1948 .
Map of  the  United Nations ( UN ) member states , with their territories ( including dependent territories ) recognized  by  the UN in blue
There  हैं   संयुक्त  Nations ( UN )  सदस्य  states ,  और  each of them  is   a   सदस्य   of  the United  राष्ट्र   सामान्य   सभा  .
The criteria for  प्रवेश  of new members are set out in the United  राष्ट्र  Charter , Chapter  ii  , Article 4:
A recommendation for admission from the Security  परिषद  requires  affirmative  votes from at least  नौ   of  the council 's  पंद्रह  members  ,  with none of the five permanent  सदस्यों  voting against .
The  सुरक्षा  Council  's   अनुशंसा  must  तब  be subsequently approved in the General Assembly by a two-thirds majority vote  .
in  principle , only sovereign states can become  un  members , and  फिलहाल  all  un  members are sovereign states ( although  a  few members  यहूद  not sovereign when they joined the  un  ) .
Because a  राज्य  can only be admitted  to  the UN by the approval of  the  Security Council and the General Assembly  ,  a number  of   राज्य  that may  be  considered sovereign  राज्य  according to the Montevideo Convention  मापदण्ड  are not members because the UN does  नहीं  consider them to possess sovereignty  ,  mainly due to the  कमी  of international recognition  or  opposition from certain members .
In addition to  the   सदस्य  states , the  un  also invites non-member  राज्य  ( currently two  :  the Holy  देखिए   और  Palestine  )   ,  intergovernmental organizations , and other  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   संगठन  and entities whose statehood or sovereignty are not precisely defined , to become observers at the General Assembly , allowing them to participate and speak , but  नहीं  vote , in General Assembly meetings .
The Eiffel  मीनार  ( , ) is an iron lattice tower located on the  champ  de Mars in Paris , named after the engineer Gustave Eiffel , whose company designed and built the tower .
Erected in  1889  as  the  entrance arch  to  the 1889 World 's Fair , it has  become  both a global  सांस्कृतिक  icon of France and one of the most recognizable structures in the world .
The tower  is  the  tallest  structure  in  Paris and the most-visited  सशुल्क   स्मारक  in the world  ;  7.1  लाख  people ascended it in 2011 .
The  तीसरा   स्तर  observatory 's  अपर  platform  is  at the highest accessible to public in the  यूरोपीय  Union and the highest in  यूरोपीय   as  long  as  the platform of the Ostankino Tower , at , remains closed as a result  of   the   आग  of August 2000 .
The tower received its  250  millionth visitor in 2010 .
The tower stands  लम्बा  , about the same  ऊँचाई  as an 81-storey building .
During its  निर्माण  , the Eiffel Tower surpassed the Washington Monument to assume the title of the  tallest  man-made  ढांचा  in the world  ,   a   शीर्षक  it held for  41  years  ,   जबतक  the  क्रिसलर  Building in New York  नगर  was built  in  1930 .
क्युकी  of the addition , in 1957  ,  of the antenna atop the Eiffel Tower , it is now taller than the  क्रिसलर   भवन  .
Not including broadcast  एन्टेना  ,  it  is  the  second-tallest structure in France , after  the   millau  Viaduct  .
The tower has  तीन  levels for visitors .
Tickets  can  be purchased to ascend , by stairs or lift ( elevator ) , to the first and second levels .
The  चलना  from ground level to the first level is over 300 steps ,  as  is the walk from the first  to  the second level .
The third  और  highest  स्तर  is accessible only  by  lift—stairs do exist but  हैं  usually closed to the public .
The  पहला  and second levels have  रेस्तरां  .
The  मीनार  has become the  सबसे  prominent  प्रतीक  of both Paris and  फ़्रांस  ,  प्रायः  in  the  establishing shot of films set in the city .
Kenneth Wayne `` Ken '' Jennings  iii  ( born May 23 , 1974 )  is  an  अमरीकी  game show contestant and  लेखक   .
Jennings is noted  लिये  holding the record for the longest winning streak  on  the  u.S.  syndicated game show  jeopardy  !
and as being the all-time leading money winner on American game shows  .
In 2004 , Jennings won 74 Jeopardy !
games before he was  पराजित   by  challenger  नैंसी   zerg   on   उसके  75th  रूप  .
उसके  total  आय  on Jeopardy !
are  $   3,172,700  , consisting of $ 2,520,700 over his  74  wins , a $ 2,000 second-place prize in his  75th  appearance , a $ 500,000 second-place prize in the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions ,  as   खूब  as half of a $ 300,000 prize in the  ibm  Challenge .
During  उसके   पहला  run  of   jeopardy  !
दिखावे  , Jennings earned the record for the highest American  खेल  show winnings .
His total was surpassed by Brad Rutter , who defeated  जेनिंग्स   in  the finals of the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions  (  first  aired  on May 25 ,  2005  )  ,  adding $  2,000,000  to Rutter 's existing Jeopardy !
winnings .
Jennings regained the  रिकार्ड  after  appearing  on  अनेक   अन्य  game shows  ,  culminating in an appearance on Are You Smarter Than a  5th  Grader  ?
( first aired  on  October  10  , 2008 ) , though Rutter retains the Jeopardy !
रिकार्ड   .
After his success on  jeopardy  !  ,  Jennings wrote  परिचय  his  अनुभव  and explored American trivia history and culture in his  किताब  Brainiac :  adventures  in the  जिज्ञासु  , Competitive , Compulsive World  of  Trivia Buffs  ,  published in 2006 .
The Canadian Football League or CFL ( ' [ LCF ] in French ) is a professional  खेल   लीग  located in  कनाडा  .
The  cfl  is the highest level of competition in Canadian  फ़ुटबॉल  ,  a  form of gridiron football  closely  related to American  फ़ुटबॉल  .
Its eight current teams , which are located  in  eight separate cities , are divided into  दो  divisions of four  टीमों  each — the East Division and  the  West Division .
The  लीग   's  19-week regular  ऋतु   रनों  from late  जून  to  जल्दी  November ; each team  plays  18 games  साथ  one bye  सप्ताह  .
Following the regular season  ,  the  तीन  teams with the best records in their  प्रभाग  (  मगर  if the fourth place team in one  प्रभाग  has a better record than  the   तीसरा  place team in  the  other division  ,  when the team with the better record makes the  playoffs  and `` crosses over '' to the other division 's playoff ) compete in the league 's three-week divisional  playoffs  , which  culminate  in the late-November Grey Cup championship  ,  the country 's largest annual sports  और  television event .
The  cfl  was  officially  founded on January 19 , 1958  ,  making it the second  oldest  gridiron football league in North America still in  आपरेशन  ,  हालांकि  all its  टीमों  long predate the modern formation  of  the league .
It is the highest level  of  play in Canadian football , the  सबसे   लोकप्रिय  football league in Canada ,  और  the second-most popular major sports league in  कनाडा  ,  बाद   the  National Hockey  लीग  .
Although  बर्फ  hockey is Canada 's most popular sport , the CFL has  increased  the popularity  of  Canadian  फ़ुटबॉल  in Quebec  और  Western Canada .
Canadian football  is  also played at amateur levels (  i.e  . youth , high school  ,  CJFL , QJFL , CIS and  वरिष्ठ  leagues such as the Alberta Football League )  .
The  2010s   होगा  be a significant decade for  the  CFL  in  terms of growth , as  टीमों   have   संवर  , expanded stadiums , or plan to  निर्माण  entirely  नई  stadiums  .
The  मॉन्ट्रियल  Alouettes accomplished this  पहला   ,  adding 5,000  सीटे  to Percival Molson  मेमोरियल   स्टेडियम   in  time for the 2010 CFL season .
The  एडमॉन्टन  Eskimos and Calgary Stampeders also renovated their respective stadiums and facilities for the 2010 season .
In 2011 , the BC  शेर  played under a new , retractable roof in BC Place after spending  एक   और  a  हाफ   सीज़न   at  Empire  फ़ील्ड  .
Then the Winnipeg Blue Bombers will  खेल  in an entirely new stadium at the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Manitoba , scheduled to open in time for the 2013 season .
The  हैमिल्टन  Tiger-Cats ,  saskatchewan  Roughriders and the  नई   ओटावा  franchise are also looking at new or extensively-renovated stadiums in  the   following  years .
There are also  उम्मीदें  of  expanding  the  लीग  to Atlantic Canada (  ideally  basing a team in either the more populated Halifax  ,  or the more centralized Moncton ) , as 2010 and 2011  था  regular  ऋतु  games hosted in Moncton .
According to sports  इतिहासकार  Douglas Brei ,  the  Canadian Football League  holds  the distinction of being the only professional sports  लीग   in   उत्तर  America ,  प्रमुख  or minor league , in  जिससे  each existing franchise has won  at   तनिक  one league title  जबकि  in their current location .
Each  एंटीबॉडी  binds to a  विशिष्ट  antigen ; an interaction similar  to  a lock and  कुंजी  .
An antibody  (  Ab ) , also known as an immunoglobulin ( Ig ) , is a large Y-shaped protein  उत्पादित  by B-cells that is  प्रयुक्त  by the immune system to  पहचानो   और  neutralize foreign objects  ऐसे  as  जीवाणु  and viruses .
The antibody  recognizes   a  unique part  of  the foreign  निशाना   ,  called an antigen .
प्रत्येक  tip of  the  `` Y  ''  of an antibody  contains  a paratope ( a structure analogous to  a  lock  )  that is specific for one particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a key ) on  an  antigen , allowing these  दो  structures to bind together with precision .
Using this  बाइंडिंग  mechanism , an antibody can tag a  microbe  or an infected cell for attack  by  other parts of the immune system , or can neutralize its target directly ( for  उदाहरण  ,  by  blocking a  भाग   of  a microbe that  is  essential for its invasion and survival ) .
The production of  antibodies  is the main  फलन  of the  humoral  immune  प्रणाली  .
Antibodies  हैं  secreted by  a  type of  श्वेत  blood cell  पुकारा   a   प्लाज्मा  cell .
Antibodies can occur in two  शारीरिक  forms , a soluble form that is secreted  इससे  the cell  ,  and a membrane -bound form that is attached to the surface of a B cell and is referred to as the B cell receptor  (   bcr  ) .
the  BCR  is   तभी  found on the surface of B cells  और  facilitates  the  activation of these cells and  उनके  subsequent differentiation into either  एंटीबॉडी  factories called plasma cells ,  or  memory B cells  कि  will survive in the body and remember that  वही  antigen so the B cells can respond faster upon future exposure  .
In most cases  ,   बातचीत  of the B  कोशिका  with a T helper cell is necessary to  उपज  full  सक्रियण   of  the B  कोशिका   और  , therefore  ,  antibody generation following antigen  बाइंडिंग   .
Soluble  antibodies  are released into the blood and tissue fluids  ,  as well  as  many secretions to continue to survey  लिये  invading microorganisms .
antibodies   हैं  glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin  superfamily   ;  the  शर्तें   एंटीबॉडी   और  immunoglobulin are  प्रायः   प्रयुक्त  interchangeably .
Antibodies are typically made of basic structural units—each with  दो  large heavy chains and  दो   छोटी  light chains .
There are several different types of antibody heavy chains  ,  and several different kinds of  antibodies  ,  जिससे   हैं  grouped into  अलग  isotypes  आधारित  on which heavy chain they possess .
Five different antibody isotypes are known  in  mammals  ,  which perform  अलग  roles , and  सहायता  direct the appropriate immune response for each different type of foreign object  वे  encounter .
हालांकि  the general  ढांचा  of all antibodies is very  समान  , a  छोटी  region  at  the tip of the  प्रोटीन  is extremely variable , allowing millions of antibodies with slightly  अलग  tip structures  ,   or  antigen binding  साइट   ,  to exist .
This region is known as  the  hypervariable region  .
Each of these variants can bind to a different antigen  .
This enormous diversity of antibodies allows the immune system  to  recognize an  बराबर  wide  किस्में  of antigens .
The large and diverse population of antibodies is generated  by   यादृच्छिक   combinations  of a set of  जीन   खण्ड   कि  encode different  प्रतिजन  binding sites ( or paratopes ) , followed by random mutations in this area of  the  antibody gene , which create  further  diversity .
Antibody  जीनों  also  re-organize  in a process called class switching that changes  the  base of the heavy chain to another , creating a  अलग  isotype of  the  antibody that retains the  प्रतिजन   विशिष्ट  variable region .
This allows  a   सिंगल  antibody  to  be used by several different parts of the immune system .
The  प्रतीक  used by  the  Zodiac Killer to sign his correspondence
The  zodiac  Killer was a  सीरियल  killer  जो  operated  in  Northern California  in  the late  1960s  and  जल्दी  1970s  .
The killer 's identity remains unknown .
The Zodiac murdered victims in  benicia  , Vallejo , Lake Berryessa , and San  फ्रांसिस्को  between December 1968 and  अक्तूबर  1969 .
चार   मेन  and three women between the ages of 16 and  29  were targeted  .
the   कातिल  originated the name ``  zodiac  '' in a series  of  taunting  अक्षर  sent to the  लोकल  Bay Area press .
These letters  शामिल   चार  cryptograms ( or ciphers  )  .
of   the  four cryptograms sent , only  एक   रै   महरूम  definitively solved .
Suspects  have  been named  by   विधि   प्रवर्तन   और  amateur investigators ,  लकिन  no conclusive evidence has surfaced .
in  April 2004 ,  the  San Francisco Police  विभाग   चिह्नित  the case `` inactive '' , yet re-opened the case at some point prior to March 2007 .
The case also remains open  in  the city of Vallejo  ,   as  well as  in  Napa  काउंटी  and Solano County  .
the  California Department of Justice  रै  maintained an open case file  on  the Zodiac  हत्याएं  since 1969  .
Jennings  is  a small  नगर   in   और  the parish seat  of  Jefferson Davis Parish ,  louisiana  , United States ,  निकट  Lake Charles  .
The population was 10,383 at the  2010  census ,  a   छोटी  decline from the 2000 tabulation .
the  city is 68 percent white .
Jennings  is  the principal city  of  the Jennings Micropolitan Statistical Area , which includes all of Jefferson Davis Parish .
It is also part of the larger Lake Charles-Jennings Combined Statistical Area  .
nanotechnology  ( sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the manipulation of matter  on   an  atomic and molecular scale .
The earliest , widespread  वर्णन  of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological goal of precisely manipulating  अणु  and molecules for fabrication of macroscale products  ,  also now referred to as molecular nanotechnology .
a  more generalized description of nanotechnology  थी  subsequently established by  the  National Nanotechnology  पहल  ,  जिससे  defines nanotechnology as the  हेरफेर  of  पदार्थ  with at least  एक  dimension sized from 1 to 100  nanometers  .
This definition reflects the fact that quantum mechanical  प्रभाव  are important  at  this quantum-realm scale , and so  the  definition shifted from a particular  technological  goal  to  a research category  समावेशी  of  सब   प्रकार  of research and technologies  कि  deal with the special  गुण  of matter that  occur  below the given size  दहलीज  .
It is therefore common  to  see the plural form  ``  nanotechnologies '' as well  as  `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the  व्यापक  range  of  research and applications whose common trait  is  size .
Because  of  the variety of  संभावित  applications ( including industrial and military  )  , governments  have  invested billions  of  dollars  in   nanotechnology  research .
Through  इसके   नेशनल   nanotechnology  Initiative ,  the  USA has invested  3.7  billion  डॉलर  .
the  European Union has invested 1.2  अरब  and Japan 750 million  डॉलर  .
nanotechnology  as defined by size  is  naturally very broad ,  सहित  fields of  विज्ञान  as diverse  as  surface science , organic chemistry  ,  molecular biology ,  सेमीकंडक्टर  physics ,  microfabrication  ,  इत्यादि  .
The associated research and applications are equally diverse , ranging from  एक्सटेंशन  of conventional device  भौतिकी  to completely new approaches  आधारित  upon  आणविक  self-assembly , from developing new materials with dimensions on the nanoscale  to  direct control of matter on the atomic scale .
Scientists currently debate the future implications  of  nanotechnology  .
Nanotechnology may be able to create many new materials and devices with a vast range  of  applications  ,  such  as   in  medicine , electronics ,  biomaterials   और   उर्जा  production .
On the other hand , nanotechnology raises many of  the  same  मुद्दे  as any new technology  ,  including concerns about the toxicity and environmental impact of  nanomaterials   ,  and  उनके  potential effects on global economics , as well  as   अटकलें  about various  doomsday  scenarios .
These concerns have led to a  बहस  among  वकालत   समूह  and governments on  whether  special regulation of nanotechnology  is  warranted  .
Map of the Eastern Bloc
The term Eastern Bloc or Communist Bloc  refers  to the  पूर्व  communist states  of  Central and Eastern Europe , generally  the  Soviet  संघ  and the countries of the Warsaw  अनुबंध   .
The terms Communist  bloc  and  सोवियत   bloc  were  भी  used to denote groupings of states aligned with the Soviet Union ,  हालांकि  these terms might include states outside Central and Eastern Europe .
The  नई  Jersey gubernatorial election of 2009 took place on November 3 , 2009 .
Democratic  राज्यपाल  Jon Corzine was running  लिये  a  दूसरी  term and  थी  being challenged  by  Republican Chris Christie , Independent Christopher Daggett and nine  अन्य  , in  जोड  to  अनेक  write-in candidates .
Christie won the election , with  परिचय  48.5 percent of the  vote  , to  44.9   प्रतिशत  for  corzine   और  5.8  प्रतिशत   लिये  Daggett .
Christie won the largest margin for a first  पद  Republican since 1969 .
क्रिस्टी   assumed   दफ्तर  on January  19  , 2010 .
This was the first  चुनाव   to  fill the newly created office  of  Lieutenant  राज्यपाल  .
the  candidates for governor and lieutenant  राज्यपाल   यहूद  joined  साथ  as a single  चुनाव  , so that  मतदाता  did not  have  the  अवसर  to split the ticket .
Kim Guadagno , Christie 's running mate ,  became  New  जर्सी  's first  लेफ्टिनेंट  governor following her inauguration .
Health care in the United States is provided by many distinct organizations .
स्वास्थ्य   परवाह   सुविधाएं  are largely owned and operated by private sector  व्यवसायों   .
Health insurance for public sector employees  is  primarily provided by the government .
60-65 %  of  healthcare  प्रावधान  and spending comes  इससे  programs such  as  Medicare , Medicaid  ,   tricare   ,  the  children  's Health Insurance Program  ,  and the Veterans Health  प्रशासन  .
Most of  the  population under 65  is   insured  by  उनके  or  a  family  सदस्य  's  नियोक्ता  , some buy health insurance on  उनके  own  ,   और  the remainder are  uninsured  .
Of 17 high-income  देशों  studied  by  the National Institutes of  स्वास्थ्य  in 2013 , the United States was at or  निकट  the bottom in infant mortality , heart and lung  बीमारी  , sexually transmitted infections  ,  adolescent pregnancies , injuries , homicides ,  और  rates of disability  .
Together , such issues  प्लेस  the U.S. at the bottom of the list for  जीवन  expectancy  .
On average  ,  a U.S. male can be expected to live  लगभग  four  कम   सालो  than those in the top-ranked country .
according  to the  संसार   स्वास्थ्य  Organization ( WHO ) , the United States spent more on health  परवाह  per capita ( $ 7,146 ) , and more  on  health care as  प्रतिशत  of its GDP  (  15.2 % )  ,  than  कोई  other nation in 2008  .
the  Commonwealth Fund ranked  the   संयुक्त  States last  in  the quality of  स्वास्थ्य   परवाह  among similar countries , and  टीप   u.S.   परवाह  costs the most .
The  u.S.  Census  ब्यूरो  reported that 49.9 million residents , 16.3 %  of  the population ,  यहूद   uninsured  in 2010  (  up from 49.0  लाख  residents , 16.1 % of the population , in 2009 )  .
A 2004  संस्थान  of Medicine ( IOM )  रपट  said : ``  the  United States  is  among the  few   industrialized  nations in the world that  करता   नहीं  guarantee  अभिगम   to  health  परवाह  for its population .  ''
A 2004 OECD report said  :  `` With the exception  of  Mexico , Turkey , and the  संयुक्त  States , all OECD countries  था  achieved  सार्वभौमिक  or  near-universal  ( at least 98.4 % insured  )  coverage  of  their populations by 1990 . ''
a  2010 report observed that lack of health insurance causes roughly 48,000  अनावश्यक  deaths  प्रत्येक  year in  the   संयुक्त  States .
In  2007   ,  62.1 % of  filers  for  bankruptcies  claimed high medical expenses .
A 2013  पढ़ाई   मिला  that about  25   %  of all senior citizens declare bankruptcy due to medical expenses , and  43  % are  मजबूर  to mortgage or  बेचें  their  प्राथमिक  residence  .
On March  23  , 2010 ,  the  Patient Protection and  सस्ती  Care Act  (  PPACA ) became law , providing for  प्रमुख   परिवर्तन  in health insurance  .
In physiology , body  जल  is the water  सामग्री  of the human  देह  .
A  significant   भिन्न  of the human body is water .
Arthur Guyton 's Textbook  of  Medical Physiology states that `` the  कुल  amount of water in  a  man of average  वज़न  ( 70 kilograms ) is approximately 40 litres , averaging  57  percent of his  कुल  body weight .
in   a  newborn infant ,  इस  may be as high as 75 percent of the body weight , but it progressively decreases  इससे  birth to old  आयु   ,  most of  the   घटी  occurring during the first 10 years of life .
Also , obesity decreases the percentage of water  in  the body  ,  sometimes to  as  low as 45 percent  ''  .
These figures are statistical  averages  , so are illustrative  ,   और  like  सब  biostatistics , will vary with things  जैसे  type of population , age and number of people sampled , and methodology .
So there  is  not , and can not be , a figure that is  exactly   the  same for all  लोगों  , for this  or  any other physiological measure .
For example  ,  Jackson 's ( 1985 )  anatomy   &   physiology  for Nurses  देता  a figure  of  60 % for the proportion of body-weight attributable  to  water , which approximates  guyton  's 57 %  .
In diseased states where  देह   जल  is affected , the compartment or  compartments  that have changed can give clues to the  प्रकृति  of the problem .
Body  जल  is  regulated  by hormones , including anti-diuretic hormone ( ADH  )  , aldosterone and atrial natriuretic peptide .
प्रति   netter   's  Atlas of  इंसान   physiology  ,  देह   जल  is broken down into the following compartments:
Intracellular fluid (  2/3   of  body water ) .
Per  guyton  , in a body containing 40 litres of fluid , about 25 litres is intracellular  ,   जिससे  amounts to 62.5 %  (  5/8 ) , close enough to the 2/3 rule  of  thumb .
जैक्सन  's texts  राज्य  70  %   of  body fluid is intracellular .
Extracellular fluid  (  1/3  of  body water ) .
Per Guyton 's illustration , for a 40  लीटर   देह   ,  about  15  litres is  extracellular  , which amounts  to  37.5 %  again  , this  is  close to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited here .
Plasma ( 1/5 of extracellular fluid ) .
Per Guyton 's illustration , of the 15  लीटर  of  extracellular  fluid , plasma volume averages 3  लीटर  .
This amounts to 20  %  , the same  as  per Netter 's Atlas .
अंतरालीय  fluid ( 4/5  of  extracellular fluid  )
Transcellular fluid ( a.k.a . `` third space , ''  सामान्यतः  ignored  in  calculations )
Contained inside organs  ,  such as the gastrointestinal ,  प्रमस्तिष्कमेरु  ,  उदरावरणीय  , and ocular fluids .
self-esteem  is a  पद  used in  मनोविज्ञान   to  reflect  a  person 's overall emotional  मूल्यांकन   of   उसके  or her own worth .
It  is   a  judgement of oneself as well  as  an attitude toward the self .
Self-esteem  encompasses   मान्यताओं  ( for example , `` I am competent , '' `` I am worthy '' ) and emotions such as triumph ,  despair   ,  pride and  शर्म  .
Smith  और  Mackie define  it  by  saying  `` The  self-concept  is  कया   we  think about the self ;  self-esteem   ,  is the positive or negative evaluations of the self , as in how we feel  परिचय  it . ''
self-esteem  is also known as the  evaluative  dimension of the self that  शामिल  feelings of worthiness , prides  और   discouragement   .
One 's self-esteem  is  also  closely   संबद्ध  with  self-consciousness  .
Self-esteem  is  a disposition  कि  a person has which represents their judgements of  उनके  own worthiness .
in  the  mid-1960s  , Morris  rosenberg  and social-learning theorists defined self-esteem  as   a  personal worth or worthiness .
nathaniel  Branden in  1969   पारिभाषित  self-esteem as `` the experience of  होने   competent  to  cope  with the basic challenges of life  और  being worthy of happiness . ''
According to Branden , self-esteem  is  the sum of self-confidence ( a  अहसास  of  निजी  capacity ) and self-respect ( a feeling of personal worth ) .
It exists  as  a consequence of  the  implicit judgement that every person has of  उनके  ability  to  face life 's challenges , to understand  और  solve problems ,  और  their right to achieve happiness , and be given respect  .
As  a  social psychological construct , self-esteem is  आकर्षक  because researchers  have  conceptualized it as an  influential  predictor  of   प्रासंगिक  outcomes , such as  अकादमिक  achievement (  दलदल  1990  )  or exercise behavior ( Hagger et al . 1998 ) .
In addition , self-esteem has also been treated as an important outcome due to its close relation  साथ  psychological  well-being   (  Marsh 1989  )  .
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular dimension (  लिये  example , `` I believe I am a  शुभ   लेखक  and  i  feel happy about that '' ) or a global extent ( for example , ``  i   मानना  I am  a  bad person , and feel bad about myself in  सामान्य  '' ) .
psychologists   प्रायः  regard self-esteem  as  an enduring personality characteristic ( ``  trait   ''  self-esteem ) ,  हालांकि  normal  ,  short-term  विसंगतियाँ   (  `` state '' self-esteem ) also exist .
Synonyms or near-synonyms of self-esteem  शामिल  : self-worth ,  self-regard  , self-respect ,  और   self-integrity   .
A Masonic Lodge , often termed a Private Lodge  or   constituent  Lodge  ,  is  the  basic organisational  ईकाई  of  freemasonry  .
Every  नई  Lodge must  be  warranted or chartered by a Grand Lodge  ,   लकिन  is subject to its direction only  in  enforcing the published Constitution of  the   क्षेत्राधिकार   .
By exception the  तीन  surviving lodges that  formed  the  संसार  's  पहला  known Grand Lodge in London ( today called the  संयुक्त   ग्रैंड  Lodge of  इंग्लैण्ड  ) have the unique privilege  to  operate as time  immemorial  i.e .  बगैर  such warrant ;  तभी  one other lodge  operates  without a warrant - this  is  the Grand  stewards   '  Lodge in London , although it is not also entitled to the ``  समय  immemorial '' title .
A Freemason  is  generally entitled to visit any  आवास  ,  in  any jurisdiction ( i.e . under any Grand Lodge ) in  सौहार्द  with his  अपना  .
in  some jurisdictions this privilege is restricted  to  Master Masons ( that is , Freemasons who have attained the  अनुक्रम  's third  उपाधि  ) .
He is  पहला  usually  जरूरी  to  जाँच   ,  and certify , the  नियमितता  of the relationship of the Lodge - and  be  able to  satisfy  that  आवास  of  उसके  regularity of membership  .
Freemasons gather together  as  a  आवास  to work the three basic Degrees of  डाला   प्रशिक्षु  , Fellowcraft  और  Master Mason  .
pilkington   समूह  Limited is  a  multinational glass manufacturing company headquartered in St Helens  ,  United Kingdom and a wholly owned subsidiary of the  japan-based   एनएसजी  Group .
Prior to its acquisition by  एनएसजी  in 2006  it  was an independent  कम्पनी  listed on the London Stock Exchange and for a time was a constituent of  the   ftse  100 Index .
A quotation is the repetition of  एक  expression as part of another one , particularly when the quoted expression is well-known or  explicitly  attributed  by  citation to its original source , and it is indicated by ( punctuated with )  quotation  marks  .
A quotation can also refer to the repeated use of units  of  any other form of expression , especially parts of artistic works :  तत्व  of a painting , scenes  इससे  a movie or sections  इससे  a musical  संयोजन  .
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was  a  common year starting on Monday ( link will display the full calendar  )  of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Saturday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar .
Black pepper  (  Piper nigrum ) is a  flowering  vine in the family Piperaceae , cultivated for its fruit ,  जिससे  is usually dried and used  as   a  spice and seasoning .
The  फल  , known  as  a peppercorn when dried , is approximately in diameter  ,  dark red  जब  fully mature  ,  and ,  जैसे   सब   drupes  ,  contains  a single  बीज  .
Peppercorns , and the ground pepper derived from them , may be described simply as pepper ,  or  more precisely as  ब्लैक  pepper ( cooked and dried unripe  फल   )  , green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds )  .
Black pepper is native to south India ,  और  is  extensively   cultivated   वहीँ  and elsewhere  in  tropical regions  .
Currently Vietnam is the world 's  largest  producer and exporter of pepper  ,   producing  34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008 .
Dried ground pepper has been used since  प्राचीनता  for both its flavour and  as  a medicine .
Black pepper  is   the  world 's most traded  मसाला  .
It is one of the  सबसे  common  मसाले  added to European  भोजन  and its descendants .
The  spiciness  of black pepper  is  due to the chemical  piperine  , not to be confused with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs .
It  is  in the modern world  ,  often  युग्म  with salt .
Fire hydrant  in  Charlottesville , Virginia , USA
A fire hydrant  (  also known colloquially as a fire plug in  the  United States  or  as  a  johnny pump in New York City ) ,  is  an active fire protection measure ,  और   a  source  of  water provided  in  most urban , suburban and rural areas with municipal  जल  service to enable firefighters  to  tap into the municipal water supply to assist in extinguishing  a  fire .
Buildings near  a   hydrant  may qualify for an  बीमे   छूट  since firefighters should be able to more rapidly extinguish a fire on the insured property .
The  अवधारणा   of  fire plugs dates to  at  least the 17th century  .
This was a time when firefighters responding to a call would dig  bas  to the  लकड़ी   जल  mains and hastily bore  a  hole to  सुरक्षित  water  to   लड़ो   फ़ायर  .
The water  होता  fill the  छेद  creating  a  temporary well ,  और  be transported from the well to the fire by  बाल्टी  brigades or , later ,  by   hand-pumped  fire engines  .
the  holes  यहूद   तब   plugged  with stoppers , normally redwood , which  over  time  आए  to be known as fire  plugs  .
The location of the plug would often be recorded  or   चिह्नित  so that  it  could be reused  in   भविष्य  fires .
This is the  सोर्स  of  the  colloquial term fire plug still  प्रयुक्त  for fire hydrants today .
बाद  the Great Fire of London in 1666  ,  the  नगर  installed water mains  साथ   छेद  drilled  at  intervals , equipped with risers  ,  allowing an access point  to  the wooden fire plugs from street  स्तर   .
The invention of a post- or  pillar-type  fire hydrant  is   generally  credited to Frederick Graff Sr. ,  मुख्य  Engineer of  the   फिलाडेल्फिया   जल  Works  around  the year  1801  .
It had a  संयोजन  hose/faucet outlet  और  was of `` wet  बैरल  '' design  साथ   the  valve in the top  .
It is said that  graff  held the first patent  लिये  a fire  hydrant  , but this can not  be   सत्यापित  because the  पेटेंट  office  in   वॉशिंगटन  D.C. caught on fire in 1836 destroying many patent  रिकॉर्ड  from that period in  the  process .
The President of the Republic of South Africa is the head  of  state and head of government under South  अफ़्रीकी  's Constitution .
From 1961 to 1994 ,  the  head of  राज्य  was called the State President .
The President is elected by  सदस्यों  of the  नेशनल  Assembly , the lower house of Parliament , and  is  usually the leader of the largest party , which  रै  been  the  African National  कॉंग्रेस  since the first non-racial elections were held on 27 April 1994 .
The role was originally  संस्थापित  to  be  distinct from  the  now  defunct   भूमिका  of prime minister ,  लकिन  the two roles were merged in the 1983 constitution which  निर्दिष्ट  a four-year  पद  of  दफ्तर  .
The 1993 and later constitutions limits  the  president 's time in office to two five-year terms .
the   पहला  President  to   be  elected under the new constitution was  नेल्सन  Mandela , and  the  incumbent president  is  Jacob  zuma  .
Under  the  interim Constitution (  मान्य  from 1994  to   1996  ) , there  थी  a Government of National Unity , in which an MP  इससे  the largest opposition party was entitled to a position as Deputy President .
साथ   साथ  Thabo Mbeki , the last  राज्य  President  ,   f.w   .  De  klerk   भी  served as Deputy President , in  उसके  capacity  as  the  नेता  of  the  National Party which was the second-largest party in the new Parliament .
But  de  Klerk  बाद  resigned and went into opposition with  उसके  party  .
A  voluntary  coalition government continues to exist under the new constitution (  अपनाया  in 1996 ) , although there have been no appointments of opposition politicians  to   the   पोस्ट  of deputy president .
Special  शिक्षा  or special  needs  education is the education  of   विद्यार्थी  with special needs in a way that addresses the students  '  individual differences  और  needs .
Ideally , this process involves the individually planned and systematically monitored arrangement of teaching procedures ,  adapted  equipment and materials  ,  accessible settings , and  अन्य   interventions   designed  to help  learners  with special needs achieve  a  higher level of personal self-sufficiency and success in  स्कूल  and  जातियाँ   than  would be available  if  the student were only given access  to  a typical classroom education  .
Common special needs  शामिल  challenges with learning , communication challenges , emotional and  behavioral   विकार  , physical  disabilities  , and developmental disorders  .
Students with these kinds of special needs are likely to benefit from additional educational  सेवाएं  such as different  approaches  to teaching  ,  use of technology ,  a  specifically adapted teaching area  ,  or resource room .
Intellectual giftedness is a difference in learning and  can  also  लाभ   इससे   specialized  teaching techniques or  अलग  educational  कार्यक्रम  , but the term `` special education ''  is  generally used to specifically  indicate  instruction of students whose special needs reduce  उनके   क्षमता  to learn  independently  or in an ordinary  कक्षा  , and gifted education is  संभाला  separately .
In most developed countries , educators are  modifying  teaching methods and environments so that the maximum number  of   विद्यार्थी  are served in general education  environments  .
Special education in developed countries is often regarded less as  a  `` place  ''  and more as `` a  दायरा  of services ,  उपलब्धियाँ  in every school . ''
Integration can reduce social stigmas  और  improve  अकादमिक  achievement for many students .
the  opposite  of  special education is general education .
General education  is  the standard  curriculum  presented  साथ  standard teaching methods and without additional supports .
George Soros ( or ;  ;  ; born  अगस्त  12 , 1930 , as  schwartz   györgy  ) is a Hungarian-American business magnate , investor  ,   और  philanthropist .
He is the  अध्यक्ष  of  सोरोस  Fund Management .
Soros supports progressive-liberal causes .
He is known as ``  the  Man Who Broke the Bank of England `` because  of  his in  निवेश  profits during the  1992   ब्लैक  Wednesday UK currency  संकट  .
Between 1979  और  2011 , Soros gave  दूर  over $ 8 billion to human rights , public health ,  और  education causes .
He  निभाई  a significant  भूमिका  in the  शांतिपूर्ण  transition from communism  to  capitalism  in  Hungary ( 1984–89 ) and provided one  of  Europe  's  largest higher education endowments to Central European University in  बुडापेस्ट  .
Soros is  भी  the chairman of the Open Society Institute .
an   कर्ता   portraying  Alexander  ग्राहम   घंटी  speaking into an early model telephone .
The invention of the telephone is the culmination of work done  by  many individuals , the history of which involves a collection of claims and counterclaims .
the  development of the modern electrical telephone involved  an  array  of  lawsuits founded  upon  the patent claims  of  several individuals and numerous companies .
This article covers  the  early years from  1844   to  1898 , from conception of the idea of an  इलेक्ट्रिक  voice-transmission device , to  विफल  attempts to use `` make-and-break '' current , to  कामयाब  experiments with  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  telephones  by  Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Watson ,  और  finally to commercially successful  telephones  in the late 19th century .
A Master  of   ठीक  Arts ( MFA , M.F.A  .  ) is a  ग्रैजुएट   उपाधि  typically requiring 2–3 years of postgraduate  पढ़ाई  beyond the bachelor 's degree ( BFA ) , although the term of study will vary by country or by university .
the  MFA is a creative degree  प्रायः   awarded  as  a  terminal degree  in   विज़ुअल  arts , creative  लिखने  , filmmaking , dance , or theatre and other performing arts .
coursework  is  primarily  of an applied or performing nature  साथ  the program often culminating  in  a major work or performance  .
Master of Fine  कला  programs have generally required a bachelor  's  degree prior to admission ,  लकिन  many do not require  कि  the undergraduate major be the same as the MFA  फ़ील्ड  of study .
the   सबसे  important admissions requirement has often been a  नमूना  portfolio or a performance audition  .
The  निपुण  of Fine Arts differs  इससे   the  Master of Arts  in  that the MFA , while an academic  कार्यक्रम  ,  centers  around practice  in  the particular field , whereas programs  अग्रणी  to the MA usually center on the scholarly  ,  academic , or critical  पढ़ाई  of the field .
additionally   ,  in  the  United States , an MFA is  पहचाना  as a terminal  उपाधि  for practitioners of Visual Art , Design , Dance , Theatre , Film/Video  ,  New Media , and  रचनात्मक  Writing - meaning that it is considered  to  be the highest degree in its  फ़ील्ड  , and  is  used  as  a minimum qualification to be able to  लागू  to become a  full-time   प्राध्यापक  teaching at the University  स्तर   in  these  disciplines  .
There are exceptions to this standard in the Arts , notably in the case of music performance , where  the   mfa  is  नहीं  seen  as  a terminal degree in the context of the more standardized DMA degree .
it  is also  नाजुक  to note that in  the  interest of extending the connection between creative  उत्पादन  and continued  अकादमिक  research ,  कुछ  universities have established practice-based Ph.D programs in fields such as  रचनात्मक  writing , visual arts , new media , design and theater .
While this has  था  an effect in Creative Writing , and to a lesser extent in design  और  new  मीडिया  ,  the   influx  of graduates from practice-based PhD programs  रै  not appreciably changed the standard for the MFA as the terminal degree  in  most Arts disciplines yet  .
This is  an   जारी  contentious  टॉपिक  , and is  the  frequent subject of academic panels  ,  especially at the annual College Art Association conference .
The CAA 2008 guidelines regarding the MFA  strongly  re-affirms that the PhD is  नहीं  required as a terminal  उपाधि  in  the  visual arts .
The atomic bombings  of  the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in  जापानी  were conducted by the United States during the final stages of World War  ii  in 1945 .
The two events are the only use of  नाभिकीय  weapons in war  to  date .
Following a firebombing  अभियान  that destroyed  अनेक  Japanese  शहरों  , the Allies prepared  लिये  a costly invasion  of  Japan .
The war in Europe ended when Nazi Germany  हस्ताक्षरित  its instrument of surrender on 8  may   ,   लकिन  the Pacific War continued .
Together with the United  किंगडम  and the Republic  of  China , the United States called for a surrender of Japan in the Potsdam Declaration on  26  July 1945  ,  threatening Japan  साथ  ``  संकेत   और  utter destruction '' .
The Japanese government ignored  इस  ultimatum , and the United  राज्य  deployed two nuclear  हथियार  developed by the Manhattan Project .
American airmen dropped Little Boy on the city of Hiroshima on  6  August 1945 ,  followed  by Fat Man over Nagasaki  on   9  August .
Within the first two to four  महीने  of the bombings , the acute effects  मारे  90,000–166,000  लोगों  in Hiroshima and 60,000–80,000 in  नागासाकी  , with roughly half of the deaths in each city occurring on the first day .
the   हिरोशिमा  prefecture health department estimated  कि   ,  of the people who  died  on the day of the explosion , 60 % died  इससे  flash or flame burns ,  30  % from falling debris and  10  % from other causes .
During  the  following months ,  विशाल  numbers died  इससे  the effect of burns  ,  radiation sickness , and other injuries , compounded by illness .
In a US estimate of the  कुल  immediate and short  पद   कारण  of death ,  15–20   %  died from radiation sickness ,  20–30  % from burns , and  50–60  %  इससे  other  चोटों   ,  compounded by illness .
In both cities ,  सबसे  of the  मुर्दे  were  नागरिकों  , although Hiroshima had a sizeable garrison .
on  15 August  ,  six  दिनों  after the bombing  of   नागासाकी  ,  जापानी  announced its surrender to the Allies , signing the Instrument of Surrender on  2   सितंबर   ,  officially ending  संसार   युद्ध  II .
The bombings  led   ,  in part ,  to  post-war Japan 's adopting Three  non-nuclear  Principles  ,  forbidding  the  nation from nuclear armament .
the  role of the  bombings  in  जापानी   's  surrender  और   उनके  ethical justification are  स्टिल  debated .
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi ( ; 2  अक्तूबर  1869 – 30 January  1948  ) ,  commonly  known as Mahatma Gandhi , was the preeminent leader of Indian  राष्ट्रवाद  in British-ruled India .
employing  non-violent civil  disobedience  , Gandhi led India to independence  और  inspired movements for  non-violence   ,  civil rights  और  freedom across the world .
The son of a senior government official , Gandhi  थी  born and raised in a Hindu  bania  community in coastal  गुजरात  , and trained in law  in  London .
Gandhi became  प्रसिद्ध  by fighting for  the  civil  अधिकारों   of  Muslim and  हिन्दू  Indians in South Africa , using new techniques of  non-violent  civil disobedience that he developed .
Returning to India in  1915  , he set about organising  peasants  to  विरोध  excessive land-taxes .
A lifelong opponent of `` communalism  ``  ( i.e . basing politics on religion ) he reached  आउट  widely  to  all religious groups .
He became a leader of Muslims  protesting  the declining status of the Caliphate  .
Assuming leadership of the Indian National  कॉंग्रेस  in 1921 , Gandhi led nationwide  अभियान  for easing poverty , expanding  महिलाओं  's rights , building  धार्मिक  and ethnic amity , ending  अस्पृश्यता  , increasing economic self-reliance , and above all for achieving Swaraj —the independence of  इण्डिया  from British  हुकूमत  .
गांधी  led Indians in  protesting  the national salt  कर  with  the   dandi  Salt March in 1930 , and later in demanding the British to  तत्काल  Quit India in  1942  , during World  युद्ध  II  .
He was imprisoned  लिये   कि   और  for numerous other political  offenses  over  the   सालो   .
Gandhi sought to practice non-violence  और  truth in all situations , and advocated  कि  others do the same  .
He saw the villages as the core of the true India and promoted self-sufficiency ; he did not support the industrialization  कार्यक्रम  of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru .
He lived  modestly  in a self-sufficient residential community  और  wore the traditional Indian dhoti and shawl ,  woven  with yarn  he  had hand spun on a charkha .
His chief political enemy in Britain  थी  Winston  चर्चिल   ,  who ridiculed  उसे  as a `` half-naked fakir  .  ''
he  was a dedicated vegetarian  ,  and  undertook   long   fasts   as  means of both self-purification  और   राजनैतिक   mobilization  .
In his last year ,  अप्रसन्न   at   the  partition of India  ,  Gandhi worked  to  stop  the   carnage  between  मुसलमान  , Hindus  और  Sikhs that  raged  in the  किनारा  area  between  India  और   पाकिस्तानी  .
He was  assassinated  on 30  जनवरी  1948 by Nathuram Godse who  विचार  Gandhi was too sympathetic to  इण्डिया  's  मुसलमान  .
30 January is observed  as  Martyrs ' Day  in  India  .
The honorific Mahatma ( `` Great Soul '' ) was applied to him  by  1914 .
In India he  थी  also called Bapu (  ``   पिता  ''  )  .
He is  ज्ञात   in  India as the Father of the Nation ; his birthday , 2 October , is  commemorated  there as Gandhi  jayanti  ,  a  national holiday  ,   और  world-wide  as  the International Day of Non-Violence .
Gandhi 's philosophy was not theoretical  लकिन  one  of  pragmatism , that is , practicing his principles in  the  moment .
Asked to give a  संदेश  to  the   लोगों  ,  he  would respond , `` My life is my message . ''
Joan Crawford ( March 23  ,  ca . 1904 – May 10 ,  1977  ) , born  lucille  Fay LeSueur , was an American actress in film , television and theatre .
starting  as a dancer in traveling theatrical  कंपनियाँ  before debuting on Broadway  ,  Crawford was signed to a motion picture contract by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1925 .
Initially frustrated  by  the  आकार  and quality of her parts , Crawford began a campaign of self-publicity and became  nationally  known as a flapper  by  the  समाप्त  of the 1920s .
In the 1930s , Crawford 's fame rivaled , and later outlasted , MGM  सहयोगियों  Norma Shearer and Greta Garbo  .
Crawford often played hardworking young women  जो  find  रोमांस   और  financial success .
These `` rags-to-riches '' stories were  खूब  received by Depression -era audiences  और  were popular with women  .
क्रॉफर्ड  became one  of  Hollywood 's most prominent movie  सितारों   और  one  of   the  highest paid women in the United States , but her films began losing money and  by  the  समाप्त  of the 1930s she was labeled `` box office poison '' .
After an absence of nearly two years from the screen , Crawford staged  a  comeback by starring in Mildred Pierce ( 1945 ) ,  लिये  which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress  .
In 1955  ,  she  became  involved with the Pepsi-Cola Company through her marriage  to   कम्पनी  Chairman Alfred  स्टील   .
After his  मौत  in 1959 , Crawford was elected to  भरण  his vacancy on the board  of  directors but was forcibly retired in  1973  .
She continued acting in film and television  regularly   through  the 1960s , when her performances became fewer ; after the release of the British horror film  trog  in 1970 , Crawford retired  इससे  the  स्क्रीन   .
following  a public appearance in 1974 , after which unflattering photographs were published , Crawford withdrew from public life  और  became  increasingly   reclusive  until her death  in  1977 .
Crawford married  चार   टाइम्स  .
Her first  तीन  marriages ended in divorce ; the last ended with the  मौत   of  husband  अल्फ्रेड  Steele .
She  अपनाया  five  children   ,  one of whom was reclaimed by his birth  माँ  .
Crawford 's relationships with her two older children , Christina  और   क्रिस्टोफर  , were acrimonious .
Crawford disinherited the  दो  and , after Crawford  's  death ,  क्रिस्टीना  wrote a `` tell-all '' memoir  ,  Mommie Dearest , in which she alleged a lifelong pattern of physical and emotional abuse perpetrated  by  Crawford .
She was voted the tenth greatest  मादा   स्टार  in the history of American  सिनेमा  by the  अमरीकी  Film Institute .
1910 Buick Tonneau without tonneau cover
1903  घाट  Model A  rear-door  Tonneau
1903 Lanchester rear-door Tonneau
Tonneau  कवर  (  or  )  describes  a hard or soft cover used to protect unoccupied passenger  सीटे   in   a  convertible or  roadster  ,  or  the cargo  bed  in a pickup truck  .
Hard  tonneau   कवर  open  by  a  hinging   or  folding mechanism while soft covers open by rolling up .
The tonneau  कवर  is used to conceal cargo .
When the cover is pulled out ,  it  keeps items out  of   the  sun and  provides   अतिरिक्त   सुरक्षा  by keeping personal items out of sight , as well as shielding the driver from  दृश्य   .
Twitter  is  an online social networking service and microblogging  सेवा   कि  enables its users to send and read  text-based  messages of up to 140 characters ,  ज्ञात   as  ``  tweets  '' .
Twitter was created in March  2006  by  जोकर  Dorsey and by July , the  सोशल  networking site was launched  .
The service  rapidly  gained worldwide popularity ,  साथ  over 500 million  पंजीकृत  users as of 2012 , generating over 340 million  tweets  daily and handling over 1.6 billion  ढूंढें  queries  प्रति  day .
Since its launch ,  ट्विटर   रै  become one of the ten most  visited  websites on  the  Internet , and  रै  been described as  ``   the  SMS of the Internet . ''
अपंजीकृत  users can  पढ़ा   tweets  ,  जबकि  registered users can post tweets  through   the  website  इंटरफ़ेस   ,  SMS , or a range of apps  लिये   मोबाईल  devices .
Twitter Inc. is based in San  फ्रांसिस्को  ,  साथ  additional servers and offices in New York  नगर   ,  Boston , and  सैन   अंतोनियो  .
The Hangover is a 2009 American comedy film ,  co-produced  and directed by Todd Phillips  और  written by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore  .
It  is  the first  फिल्मी  of The Hangover franchise  .the  film stars Bradley Cooper , Ed  helms  ,  zach  Galifianakis , Heather Graham , Justin Bartha  ,  and Jeffrey Tambor .
The Hangover tells  the  story of  फिल  Wenneck , Stu  दाम  and Alan Garner , who travel  to  Las Vegas for a  स्नातक  party  to  celebrate their  dost  Doug Billings '  impending  marriage .
However , Phil , Stu and  एलन  have no memory of the previous night 's events  और  must find Doug before the wedding can take place .
Lucas and Moore wrote  the  script after  कार्यपालिका  producer Chris Bender 's friend disappeared and had a large bill after  होने  sent to a strip  क्लबों  .
After Lucas and Moore  बेची  it to the studio for $ 2 million ,  फिलिप्स  and Jeremy Garelick rewrote the script to include a tiger  as   खूब  as a subplot involving a baby and a  पुलिस   क्रूजर  , and also including  boxer  Mike Tyson .
Filming  took  place in  नेवाडा  for 15  दिनों  , and during filming , the three  प्रमुख  actors (  कूपर   ,   helms  and Galifianakis ) formed a friendship  .
The Hangover was released on June 5 ,  2009   ,  becoming  a  critical and commercial  कामयाबी  .
It  became  the  tenth-highest-grossing   फिल्मी   of  2009 , with a  विश्वव्यापी  gross of over US $ 467 million .
Critics praised the film 's  comedic  approach but criticized it  लिये   इसके   vulgarity  .
The film won the Golden Globe  पुरस्कार   लिये  Best Motion  चित्र  – Musical or Comedy  ,  and received multiple  अन्य  accolades .
It is the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009 in the world ,  as  well  as  the second highest-grossing  r-rated  comedy ever in the  संयुक्त  States , surpassing a  रिकार्ड  previously held by Beverly Hills Cop for  लगभग  25 years  और  later  होने  surpassed  by   टेड   in  2012 .
Out of  सब   r-rated  films , it  is  the third highest-grossing ever in the U.S. ,  पीछे  only The Passion  of   the   मसीह  and The Matrix  reloaded  .
a  sequel ,  the  Hangover Part II ,  थी  released  in  2011  ,  and  a  third and final film  ,  The Hangover Part III , is set  लिये  release in  2013  .
Events involving  meiosis  ,  प्रर्दशित  chromosomal crossover
Meiosis (  )  is a special type of cell division necessary for sexual reproduction in eukaryotes .
the  cells produced by meiosis  हैं  gametes or spores  .
In  अनेक   जीवों   ,  including all  पशु   और  land plants ( but not  कुछ  other groups such  as  fungi ) , gametes  हैं   पुकारा  sperm and egg cells  .
Whilst the process of meiosis bears a number of  similarities  with the 'life-cycle  '  cell division process of mitosis , it differs in  दो  important respects:
the chromosomes in  meiosis  undergo a recombination which shuffles  the  genes producing a different genetic combination  in  each  gamete  , compared with the co-existence  of  each of  the  two separate  pairs  of  प्रत्येक  chromosome ( one  प्राप्त  from each parent  )  in  प्रत्येक  cell which results from mitosis  .
the outcome of meiosis  is  potentially four ( genetically unique ) haploid  कोशिकाएं  , compared with the two ( genetically identical )  द्विगुणित  cells produced from mitosis .
Meiosis begins with one  द्विगुणित  cell containing two  नक़ल  of each chromosome  —one  from  the  organism  's  mother and  एक  from  इसके  father .
The cell divides twice  ,  potentially producing up to four  अगुणित   कोशिकाएं  containing one copy of  प्रत्येक  chromosome .
(  ``  Potentially '' because in some cases  ,  such as  the  formation of  oocytes  in mammals ,  तभी  one of the possible four haploid  कोशिकाएं  survives .  )
in   पशु  the haploid cell resulting from meiosis is  a  male or female gamete .
प्रत्येक   of   the  resulting  गुणसूत्रों  in the  gamete  cells is a unique mixture  of  maternal and paternal DNA ,  resulting  in offspring that are  genetically  distinct from either  जनक  .
इस   देता  rise to genetic diversity in sexually reproducing populations .
This  जेनेटिक  diversity can provide  the  variation of physical and  behavioural  attributes ( phenotypes )  upon  which natural selection can act ,  लकिन   ,   as  described below in Section  6  , Origin and function of  meiosis  , the genetic diversity may  be  largely a by-product  of  the homologous recombination that is primarily employed for its DNA repair function during meiosis .
It is also noteworthy that during meiosis , specific  जीनों  are more highly transcribed , and these are  पुकारा  the meiome , the term  प्रयुक्त  in functional genomics  लिये   the  meiotic  transcriptome  .
meiosis  is a  कुंजी  feature for all  sexually  reproducing eukaryotes in which homologous chromosome pairing , synapse and  recombination  occur .
In addition to strong meiotic stage-specific  अभिव्यक्ति  of mRNA ( the meiome  )  , however  ,  there are also pervasive translational controls ( e.g . selective  उपयोग  of preformed mRNA ) ,  regulating   the  ultimate meiotic stage-specific  प्रोटीन  expression of genes during meiosis .
यूँ  , both the meiome and translational controls determine the broad restructuring  of  meiotic cells needed to carry out meiosis .
Prior to the meiosis process the cell 's chromosomes are duplicated  by  a round of DNA replication  ,  creating from the maternal and  पैतृक  versions of each chromosome ( homologs )  दो  exact  नक़ल  , sister chromatids , attached at the  centromere  region .
in   the  beginning of meiosis the  मातृ  and paternal homologs pair to each other .
Then they  typically   एक्सचेंज  parts  by  homologous  recombination  leading to crossovers of DNA  between  the maternal  और   पैतृक  versions of the chromosome  .
Spindle fibers bind to the centromeres of each pair  of  homologs and arrange the pairs at the spindle equator  .
Then the fibers pull the recombined homologs to opposite poles of  the  cell .
As the chromosomes move away from  the  center the cell divides into two  बेटी  cells  ,  each containing  a   अगुणित  number of chromosomes composed of  दो  chromatids .
After  the  recombined maternal and paternal homologs have separated into the two daughter cells , a second round of cell division occurs  .
There meiosis ends as the  दो  sister  chromatids  making up  प्रत्येक  homolog are  अलग  and move into  एक  of the four resulting  gamete   कोशिकाएं   .
upon   fertilization  , for example when a sperm enters  an  egg cell , two gamete  कोशिकाएं   उत्पादित  by  meiosis  fuse .
The gamete from the mother and the  gamete  from the  पिता  each  योगदान  one half  of  the set of chromosomes that make up  the  new offspring 's genome .
Meiosis uses  अनेक  of the same mechanisms as mitosis ,  a  type of cell division  प्रयुक्त  by eukaryotes like plants and  पशु  to split one cell into two  एकसमान  daughter cells  .
In all plants and in  अनेक  protists meiosis results  in  the formation  of  spores : haploid cells that can divide vegetatively without undergoing fertilization  .
Boxing ( pugilism , prize  लड़   ,   the   मीठी   विज्ञान  or in Greek pygmachia ) is a martial  आर्ट  and  कॉम्बैट  sport in which two people engage  in  a contest of strength , speed , reflexes , endurance and will by throwing punches with gloved hands .
amateur  boxing  is  an  ओलम्पिक  and Commonwealth sport  और  is a common fixture in most of  the   प्रमुख   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   खेल  - it also has its own World Championships .
Boxing is supervised  by  a referee  over  a series of one- to three-minute intervals called rounds .
The result  is  decided when  an  opponent is  deemed  incapable to  continue  by a referee , is  disqualified  for breaking a rule , resigns  by  throwing in a towel  ,  or is pronounced the winner or loser based  on  the judges ' scorecards at the end  of   the  contest  .
The birth hour of boxing as a sport  may   be  its acceptance  by  the ancient Greeks as an Olympic  खेल  as  जल्दी   as   688   bc  .
मुक्केबाज़ी  evolved from  16th-  and  18th-century  prizefights  ,   largely  in Great Britain , to the forerunner of modern boxing in the  mid-19th  century  ,  again initially  in   ग्रेट  Britain and  बाद  in  the  United States .
In  2004  , ESPN ranked boxing  as  the most  मुश्किल   खेल  in the  संसार  .
Agreement or concord happens when a word  परिवर्तन   रूप   depending  on the other words to  जिससे  it  relates  .
It  is  an instance of  inflection   ,  and usually  involves  making the value of some grammatical category ( such as gender  or   व्यक्ति  ) `` agree  ''  between different words or parts  of  the  वाक्य  .
For example , in  मानक  English , one may  कह  I am  or  he is , but not `` I  is  '' or  ``  he am '' .
This is  क्युकी  the grammar of the language  requires  that the  क्रिया  and its subject agree  in  person  .
The pronouns  i  and  he  are first and third  व्यक्ति  respectively , as  हैं  the  क्रिया  forms am and is .
the  verb form must be  चयनित   so  that it has the same person  as  the subject .
the  agreement based on overt grammatical categories as above is formal agreement ,  in  contrast to notional agreement , which is based  on  meaning  .
For  उदाहरण  ,  the  phrase The  संयुक्त  States is treated as  एकवचन  for  उद्देश्य  of agreement ,  भी  though  it  is formally plural .
This is a  सूची  of places below mean sea level  कि  are on land .
Places in tunnels , mines  ,  basements , dug holes ( also with open  आसमान  ) , under water  ,  under  बर्फ  , or  मौजूदा  temporarily as a result of ebbing  of   समुद्र  tide etc . are not included  .
सब  figures  हैं  in meters below sea level:
Debbie Macomber (  born   अक्तूबर   22   ,  1948 in Yakima , Washington  )  is a  best-selling   अमरीकी  author of over 150 romance novels and contemporary women 's  fiction  .
Over 140 million copies of her books are  in   छपाई  throughout the world , and four have  become  made-for-TV-movies .
Macomber was the  inaugural  winner of the fan-voted  quill  Award  लिये  romance in 2005 and has been awarded both a Romance  लेखक   of  America  रीता   और   a   आजीवन  achievement award by the  रोमांस   लेखक  of America .
Catonsville is a census-designated place ( CDP ) in Baltimore County , Maryland , United States  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 41,567 at the 2010 census .
The community lies to the west of Baltimore along the city  's  border .
Catonsville is the home of the University  of  Maryland , Baltimore County ( UMBC ) , a public research  विश्वविद्यालयों  with over 12,000 students .
A lawyer , according to Black  's   विधि   शब्दकोष   ,  is `` a person learned in the  विधि  ; as an attorney  ,  counsel  or  solicitor  ;  a person who  is  practicing law . ''
Law is the system of rules of conduct established by the sovereign  सरकारी  of  a  society to correct wrongs , maintain the stability of political and social authority ,  और  deliver justice .
Working as a lawyer involves the  व्यावहारिक  application of abstract legal theories  और  knowledge to solve specific individualized problems , or to  अग्रिम  the interests  of   those  who retain ( i.e. , hire )  वकील  to perform legal services .
The role of the lawyer varies significantly across  विधिक  jurisdictions , and so it can be treated here in only the most general  शर्तें  .
Vector Marketing is the domestic  बिक्री  arm of  cutco  Corporation , an Olean , New York  आधारित  cutlery manufacturer .
The  परिवार   और  Medical Leave Act  of  1993  (   fmla  ) is a United  राज्य  federal law requiring covered employers  to  provide employees job-protected  और  unpaid leave  लिये  qualified medical and family reasons .
Qualified medical and  परिवार   कारण  include  :  personal  or  family illness , family military  छोड़  , pregnancy , adoption , or the foster care placement  of  a  चाइल्ड  .
The FMLA is administered by  the  Wage  और  Hour Division of  the  United States Department of Labor .
The bill was  a  major part of President Bill Clinton  's  agenda  in  his first term .
अध्यक्ष   क्लिंटन  signed the  विधेयक  into law on February  5  , 1993 ( ;  29  U.S.C  .  sec . 2601 ; 29 CFR 825 ) and  it  took effect on August 5  ,  1993 ,  छह  months later .
The FMLA was intended `` to balance the demands of  the   कार्यस्थल  with the needs of families . ''
The Act  allows  eligible employees to take up to 12  कार्य  weeks  of  unpaid leave  दौरान  any 12-month period to  attend  to  the  serious health condition of the employee , parent , spouse or child , or for pregnancy or care  of  a  नवजात  child  ,  or  लिये  adoption  or  foster  परवाह  of a child .
in  order to be  योग्य  for FMLA leave ,  an  employee  जरूर  have been at the  कारोबार  at least 12 months  ,  and worked  at  least 1,250 hours over the past 12 months , and work  at  a location where the company employs 50 or more employees  भीतर   75  miles  .
The FMLA covers  दोनो  public-  और  private-sector  कर्मचारी  , but certain categories of employees are  excluded  , including elected officials and their  निजी  staff members .
The Vietnam  युद्ध  ( )  थी  a Cold War -era military  विरोध  that occurred in Vietnam , Laos  ,  and  कंबोडिया  from  1  November 1955 to the fall  of  Saigon on 30  अप्रैल  1975 .
इस   युद्ध   followed  the First Indochina  युद्ध  and was  लड़ा  between  उत्तर  Vietnam  ,   समर्थित  by its communist allies , and  the  government of  दक्षिण   वियतनाम  , supported by  the  United States and other anti-communist countries  .
The  viet  Cong  (  also  ज्ञात  as the National Liberation Front , or NLF ) , a  हलके   हथियारबंद  South  वियतनामी  communist common front directed by  the  North , largely fought a guerrilla war against anti-communist forces in  the  region .
The Vietnam  लोगों  's Army  (  North Vietnamese Army ) engaged in a more conventional war , at  टाइम्स   committing  large units into  बैटल  .
U.S. and South Vietnamese forces relied  on   एयर  superiority and overwhelming firepower to conduct search and destroy operations ,  involving  ground  शक्तियां  , artillery , and  airstrikes   .
The U.S. government viewed  भागीदारी   in  the  युद्ध  as a  रास्ता  to  prevent  a communist takeover  of  South  वियतनाम  as  भाग  of their wider strategy  of  containment .
the  North Vietnamese  सरकारी   और  Viet Cong were fighting to reunify Vietnam under  कम्युनिस्ट  rule .
They viewed the conflict  as  a colonial war , fought initially against France  ,   समर्थित  by the U.S. ,  और  later  विरूद्ध  South Vietnam , which it regarded  as  a U.S.  कठपुतली   राज्य  .
अमरीकी  military advisors  arrived   in  what was then French Indochina beginning  in  1950 .
U.S. involvement escalated in the early 1960s , with troop levels  tripling   in  1961 and tripling  again  in 1962 .
u.S.  combat  इकाई  were deployed beginning  in   1965  .
Operations spanned international borders , with  लाओस  and Cambodia  heavily  bombed .
अमरीकी  involvement in the war peaked in 1968 , at  the  time of  the   tet   अप्रिय  .
After this  ,  U.S.  मैदान  forces  यहूद   धीरे   withdrawn  as part of a  नीति  known as Vietnamization .
Despite the Paris Peace Accords , signed by all parties in January 1973 , fighting continued .
U.S.  सैन्य  involvement ended on 15 August 1973 as a result of the Case–Church Amendment passed  by  the U.S.  कॉंग्रेस  .
The  कैप्चर  of Saigon by the Vietnam People 's Army  in  April 1975 marked the end of  the  war , and North and South Vietnam were reunified the following year .
The war  exacted  a huge human cost in terms of  fatalities  ( see Vietnam  युद्ध  casualties ) .
estimates  of the number of Vietnamese soldiers and civilians killed  vary   इससे  800,000 to 3.1 million  .
Some 200,000–300,000 Cambodians  ,  20,000–200,000  laotians  , and 58,220 U.S. service members also died in  the  conflict .
क्लीवलैंड   ज्वालामुखी  in the Aleutian Islands of  अलास्का  photographed from the International  स्पेस  Station  ,  May 2006 .
Ash plumes reached  a  height of 19  km  during  the  climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo , Philippines in 1991  .
A volcano is  an  opening , or rupture ,  in  a planet  's   सतह  or crust  ,  which allows hot  मैग्मा   ,  volcanic ash  और  gases  to   एस्केप  from  the  magma chamber below the  सतह   .
Volcanoes are generally found where  tectonic   प्लेटों  are diverging or  converging   .
A mid-oceanic ridge , for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge , has examples of volcanoes caused  by  divergent tectonic  प्लेटों  pulling  अलावा  ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes  caused  by convergent tectonic  प्लेटों  coming together .
By contrast  ,  volcanoes are  प्रायः  not created where two tectonic plates  स्लाइड  past one  another  .
Volcanoes can  भी  form where  वहीँ  is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in the interiors of plates , e.g. , in the East African  दरार  , the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field  और  the Rio Grande Rift in North  अमेरिका  .
This type  of  volcanism falls under the umbrella of ``  थाली  hypothesis  ''  volcanism  .
Volcanism away from plate boundaries has also  महरूम  explained  as  mantle plumes .
These so-called  ``  hotspots `` , for example Hawaii , are postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary , 3,000 km  गहन  in the  धरती  .
Erupting volcanoes can pose many hazards , not only in the  तात्कालिक  vicinity  of  the eruption .
Volcanic ash  can  be a threat to aircraft , in  particular  those with jet  इंजन  where ash particles can be melted by  the  high  ऑपरेटिंग  temperature .
विशाल  eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets  of  sulfuric acid obscure  the  sun  और  cool the Earth 's lower atmosphere or troposphere ; however , they also absorb heat  radiated  up from  the  Earth  ,  thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically ,  so-called   volcanic  winters have caused  अनर्थकारी  famines .
A deep pothole  on   नई  York City 's Second Avenue
a  pothole ( sometimes called  a  kettle  और  known in parts of the Western United States as a chuckhole ) is a type of disruption in the surface of a roadway where  a  portion  of   the  road  सामग्री   रै   टूटा  away , leaving a  छेद  .
Renal cell carcinoma (  rcc  , also known as hypernephroma  )  is  a  kidney cancer  कि  originates in  the   अस्तर  of the proximal convoluted tubule  ,  the very small tubes  in  the kidney  कि  transport GF ( glomerular  filtrate  ) from the glomerulus to  the  descending limb of the nephron .
rcc  is the most  आम  type of kidney cancer  in  adults , responsible for  लगभग  80 % of cases .
It is also known to  be   the   सबसे  lethal of all the genitourinary tumors .
Initial treatment  is  most commonly a radical or  आंशिक  nephrectomy and remains the mainstay of curative treatment .
Where the  ट्यूमर  is confined  to  the renal parenchyma , the  5-year  survival rate is  60-70  % , but this is lowered considerably where  metastases  have spread  .
It  is  relatively resistant to  विकिरण  therapy and  कीमोथेरेपी  , although some cases respond to immunotherapy .
Targeted cancer therapies  ऐसे  as  sunitinib  ,  temsirolimus  , bevacizumab  ,  interferon-alpha , and sorafenib have improved the outlook for RCC  .
Estée Lauder Companies  ,  Inc. is a manufacturer and marketer of  प्रतिष्ठा   skincare   ,  makeup ,  महक   और  hair care products .
the  company  रै  its headquarters in Midtown Manhattan , New York City .
The peritoneum ( ) is  the  serous membrane that forms the lining of  the  abdominal cavity or  the  coelom —it covers  सबसे  of the intra-abdominal (  or  coelomic ) organs—in amniotes and  कुछ   invertebrates  ( annelids ,  लिये  instance  )  .
It is composed of a layer of  mesothelium  supported by a thin layer  of  connective  ऊतक   .
The peritoneum both  supports  the abdominal organs  और  serves  as   a   conduit  for their blood and  लसीका  vessels and nerves .
The abdominal cavity ( the space bounded  by  the  vertebrae   ,  abdominal muscles , diaphragm and pelvic floor ) should  नहीं  be confused  साथ  the intraperitoneal space ( located within the abdominal cavity , but  लपेटा  in peritoneum ) .
The structures within the intraperitoneal space are called  ``  intraperitoneal '' ( e.g . the stomach ) , the structures  in   the  abdominal cavity that are located behind the intraperitoneal space are called `` retroperitoneal `` (  e.g  . the kidneys )  ,  and those structures below the intraperitoneal space are  पुकारा  `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g . the bladder ) .
Modern  2.5  '' SSD used  in   उपभोक्ता   लैपटॉप  and desktop computers .
DDR SDRAM based SSD .
Max and  .
पीसीआई  attached IO Accelerator SSD
PCI-E  ,   dram   ,  and NAND based SSD  .
It uses an external  शक्ति  supply to make  the  DRAM non-volatile .
A solid-state drive ( SSD  )   (  also known as a solid-state disk or electronic disk , though  it  contains no  वास्तविक  `` disk ''  of  any kind  )  is  a   आंकड़ा   भंडार  device  using  integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data persistently .
SSD technology uses  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  interfaces compatible with traditional block input/output ( I/O ) hard disk drives .
SSDs have no moving mechanical  components  , which distinguish them from traditional electromechanical magnetic disks such  as   मुश्किल  disk drives ( HDDs )  or   फ्लॉपी  disks , which contain  घूम  disks and movable read/write heads .
Compared with  electromechanical  disks , SSDs are typically less susceptible  to   शारीरिक  shock  ,  much quieter , have lower access time , and less latency .
however  , while the price of SSDs has continued to decline in  2012  , SSDs are still about 7 to 8  टाइम्स  more expensive per unit of storage than  hdds   .
अनेक   ssds   उपयोग  I/O interfaces developed for hard disk drives , thus permitting simple replacement in common applications .
, most SSDs use NAND-based flash  मेमोरी  , which retains data without power .
लिये  applications requiring fast access  ,  but  नहीं   necessarily  data persistence after power loss , SSDs may  be   constructed  from random-access memory ( RAM )  .
Such devices  may   employ  separate power sources , such as  बैटरी  , to maintain data  बाद  power  घाटा   .
Hybrid drives or solid  राज्य  hybrid drives ( SSHD ) combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in the same  ईकाई  , containing  a  large hard disk drive  और  an SSD cache to  improve  performance of frequently accessed data .
These devices may offer near-SSD performance for  अनेक  applications .
Salmon  roe  (  बाएँ   )  and sturgeon caviar  (  right ) served with mother of  पर्ल  caviar spoons to avoid tainting  the  taste  of   the  caviar .
ossetra  caviar , salmon creme fraiche , potato shallot croquette , basil oil  ,   अंडा  whites and yolks
Caviar , according to the Food and Agriculture Organization , is a  उत्पाद  made  इससे  salt-cured fish-eggs of the Acipenseridae family .
The roe can be `` fresh ''  (  non-pasteurized )  or  pasteurized ,  साथ   pasteurization   reducing  its culinary and economic value  .
Traditionally the  पद   caviar  refers  तभी  to roe from wild sturgeon  in   the  Caspian and  ब्लैक  Seas  (  Beluga  ,  Ossetra and Sevruga  caviars  )  .
depending  on the country , caviar may also be used to describe the roe of other fish such as salmon , steelhead , trout ,  lumpfish   ,  whitefish , and other species of  sturgeon   .
Caviar is considered a luxury delicacy  और  is eaten  as  a garnish or a  स्प्रेड  .
in  2012 , caviar sold for $ 2,500 per  पाउंड  , or $ 3,000  to  $  5,500  per  किलो  .
the   सेक  Network  is  a television  अनुप्रयोग  network featuring live broadcasts of  कॉलेज  football and  बास्केट  events  इससे  the Southeastern  सम्मेलन  .
it  is owned and operated by ESPN  प्लस   और   is  shown  in  more than 50  प्रतिशत  of households in the United States , mostly Southeastern United States  बाज़ार  .
The  सेक  Network typically airs in the noon eastern slot that was  पूर्व  home to the Raycom Sports SEC game  of   the  week  .
Games are shown  locally  on broadcast  स्टेशन  , regional  खेल  networks  ,  as well  as  on  ईएसपीएन  GamePlan  ,  ESPN Full Court , and ESPN3.com .
the  SEC Network is also available  in   कनाडा  via Atlanta 's WPCH-TV .
The SEC Network  उपयोग  the same on-screen  ग्राफिक्स  currently used by ESPN on ABC ,  a  version of ESPN  's  graphics package .
SEC Network 's football programming still uses a title safe area because  सबसे  of its  affiliates  do not Letterbox their Standard Definition feeds ,  जबकि   ईएसपीएन  's television networks have allowed  उनके  graphics to abandon the title safe  ,   लकिन  letterbox for SD  दर्शक  .
Starting  साथ  the  सेक  2012 Basketball season , SEC  संजाल  's  ग्राफिक्स  have been converted to  a   16:9  Widescreen-only format .
This  is  also being used  लिये  the 2013 Basketball season , but had still  adapted  the former 4:3-safe graphics format for the 2012 SEC football season .
the  1990s , pronounced and also known as  ``  the Nineteen-Nineties '' or  abbreviated  as `` the Nineties  ''  or `` the '90s  ''  , was a  दशक   कि  began  on  January 1 , 1990 ,  और  ended on December 31  ,   1999  .
it  was the 10th  और   पिछला   दशक  of  the  20th century and the 100th and last decade of the 2nd millennium  .
the  decade is  बेहतरीन  known for the end of the Cold War at the beginning of the decade and the  विस्तार   और  commercialization  of  the Internet  दौरान  the  दूसरी  half of  the   दशक  .
In much of  the  West the 1990s is remembered  as  a period of unprecedented peace and prosperity  ,   हालांकि   अनेक  parts of  the  so-called Third World  faced  various problems including genocide  ,  AIDS and new or  continuing  ethnic tensions and civil  युद्धों  .
culturally  speaking the  दशक  was  characterized  by the  वृद्धि   of  multiculturalism and alternative media .
Movements such as grunge , the rave scene and  हिप  hop spread  around   the  world to young people during  the   दशक   ,   aided   by  then-new technology  ऐसे  as cable  टेलीविज़न   और  the Internet .
a  combination of  कारकों  , including the mass mobilization of capital markets  through   neoliberalism   ,   the  beginning of the widespread proliferation  of  new media such as the Internet , and  the   विच्छेद  of the  सोवियत  Union led  to  a  realignment   और   reconsolidation  of economic and political  शक्ति  across  the  world , and within countries .
Income inequality among countries  in  the world rose sharply between the 1980s and the mid-1990s , before  levelling  off  और  then falling  बाद  2000 .
नई  ethnic conflicts emerged in  अफ़्रीकी  , the Balkans and the Caucasus ,  the  former two which led to the  rwandan  genocide and Bosnian genocide ,  क्रमशः  .
The United States  began  its current military occupation of the Middle  ईस्ट  during the summer of 1990 with  मरुस्थल  Shield after it cut off a  विशाल  portion of the world 's petroleum supply .
Signs of any resolution of tensions between  इसराईल  and  the  Arab  संसार  remained elusive ,  हालांकि  the Irish Troubles came to a standstill in 1998 with the Good  शुक्रवार  Agreement  बाद   30  years of violence .
The gray wolf or grey wolf ( Canis  lupus  ) is a  प्रजाति  of canid native to the wilderness and remote areas of North America  ,  Eurasia , and North Africa .
it  is  the  largest member of its family , with males averaging  ,   और  females .
It is similar in general appearance  और  proportions  to  a German shepherd ,  or   sled   श्वान  , but  रै  a larger head , narrower chest , longer legs , straighter tail and bigger paws .
Its  शीत   फर   is   long  and bushy ,  और  predominantly a mottled gray in colour , although nearly pure white ,  रेड  , or  भूरा  to black also occur .
Within the genus Canis ,  the  gray wolf represents  a  more specialised and progressive  रूप  than  इसके  smaller cousins ( the coyote and  सुनहरी   jackal  ) , as demonstrated by its morphological  adaptations  to hunting large prey , its more  मिलनसार  nature and its highly advanced expressive  बर्ताव  .
It is a social animal , travelling  in  nuclear families consisting of a mated pair  ,  accompanied by the pair  's  adult offspring .
The gray wolf is typically an apex predator  throughout  its range , with only humans and tigers posing a serious  threat  to it .
it  feeds primarily on large ungulates ,  हालांकि  it also eats smaller  पशु  , livestock ,  carrion  ,  और  garbage .
The gray  भेड़िया  is one of the world 's most well researched animals , with probably more  किताबे  written  परिचय  it than any other wildlife species .
It has a long history of association with humans ,  having  been  despised  and hunted in  सबसे   agricultural  communities due to its attacks on  पशुधन  ,  जबकि  conversely being respected by some Native American  जनजातियों  .
It is the sole ancestor  of  the dog  ,   जिससे  was first domesticated  in  the Middle  ईस्ट  .
हालांकि  the fear of  भेड़ियों   is  prevalent in many human  समाजों  , the majority of recorded attacks on people have been attributed to animals suffering from rabies .
Non-rabid wolves have attacked and  मारे  people  ,   मुख्यतः   children  ,  लकिन  this is unusual , as  भेड़ियों  are relatively few ,  सजीव   दूर  from people , and have been taught to fear  इंसानो  by hunters and  गड़रिये   .
Hunting and trapping has  घटाया  the  प्रजाति  '  दायरा  to , though its  स्टिल  relatively widespread  दायरा  and stable population means that the species is not threatened  at   a  global  स्तर  , and  is  therefore  वर्गीकृत   by   the  IUCN as Least Concern .
The  रोमन   साम्राज्य   (  ) was the post- Republican  काल   of  the ancient Roman civilization , characterised by  an  autocratic  रूप  of government  और   विशाल   territorial  holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe , Africa , and  एशिया   .
The  500-year-old  Roman Republic  ,  which  preceded  it , had been destabilized through a series  of  civil wars .
Several  कार्यक्रम   चिह्नित  the transition from Republic to  साम्राज्य  , including Julius Caesar  's  appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44  bc  )  ;  the Battle of Actium  (  31  bc  ) ; and the  granting   of  the honorific  augustus  to  octavian  by the Roman Senate (  27  BC ) .
the   पहला  two centuries of the Empire were a period of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as the Pax Romana (  ``  Roman Peace  ''  ) .
It reached its greatest expanse during the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD  )  .
In the 3rd century  ,  the Empire underwent  a  crisis that threatened its  अस्तित्व  , but was  reunified  and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian  और  Diocletian .
ईसाइयों  rose to  शक्ति  in the 4th century , during which time a system of dual rule was  विकसित  in the Latin West and Greek East  .
बाद   the  collapse of central government in the West in  the  5th century ,  the  eastern half continued as what would later be  ज्ञात  as the Byzantine Empire  .
Because of the Empire  's   विशाल   extent  and long endurance , the institutions and culture  of  Rome had  a  profound and lasting influence on  the  development of  भाषा  ,  धर्म  , architecture  ,  philosophy , law ,  और  forms of government in the  territory  it governed  ,   विशेषकर  Europe  ,   और   by  means of European expansionism throughout the modern  संसार  .
Education in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  is mainly provided by the  पब्लिक  sector ,  साथ  control  और  funding coming  इससे  three levels :  लोकल  , state ,  और  federal , in  कि  order .
चाइल्ड  education is  अनिवार्य  , and there are also a large number  और  wide variety of  उच्चतर  education  संस्थानों  throughout the  देश  that one  can  choose to attend  ,  both  सरेआम   और  privately administered  .
पब्लिक  education is universally  उपलब्धियाँ  .
School curricula  ,  funding , teaching , employment , and other  नीतियों  are  नियत  through locally elected school boards with jurisdiction over school districts with many  directives  from state  विधानमंडलों  .
School districts are  प्रायः  separate from other local jurisdictions  ,  with independent officials and budgets .
Educational standards and standardized testing decisions are usually made by  राज्य  governments .
The ages  लिये   अनिवार्य  education  vary   by  state  .
it  begins from  आयु  five to eight and ends from ages  चौदह  to eighteen .
अनिवार्य  education requirements can  generally  be satisfied by educating children  in  public schools ,  state-certified  private  स्कूलों  , or an approved home  स्कूल  program .
In most public and  निजी  schools , education  is  divided into three levels  :  elementary school , middle school ( sometimes called junior high school  )  , and high  स्कूल  ( sometimes referred to as secondary  शिक्षा   )  .
In almost all schools at these levels ,  children  are divided by age  समूह  into  ग्रेड   ,  ranging from kindergarten ( followed by first grade )  लिये  the youngest children in elementary school , up to twelfth  ग्रेड  , the final year of high school .
The exact age range  of  students in these  ग्रेड   स्तर  varies slightly from area to area .
Post-secondary education ,  बेहतर   ज्ञात  as `` college ``  in  the United States , is generally governed separately from the elementary  और  high school system , and is described in a separate section below .
Government  समर्थित  , free public schools for all started being established  बाद  the revolution ,  और   विस्तारित  in the 19th century  ,  as the results of efforts of men like  होरेस   मन  and  बुकर  T. Washington .
By 1870 , all states had free  elementary  schools  ,   albeit  only in  शहरी   centers  .
as  the  20th  century drew nearer , states  प्रारंभ  passing laws to make schooling compulsory , and by 1910 , 72 percent of children attended school .
Private schools continued to  स्प्रेड   दौरान  this time , as well as colleges and—in the rural centers— land grant colleges .
The year of 1910  भी  saw the first  सच्चा  high schools .
During the  बाकी  of the 20th century ,  शैक्षणिक  efforts  केन्द्रित  on reducing the inequality  of  the  schooling  system .
The landmark Supreme Court case Brown  v.  Board  of  Education made the desegregation of elementary  और  high schools a  नेशनल   प्रधानता   ,  while  the   pell  Grant program helped  ग़रीब  minorities gain access  to  college  .
खास  education was made into  संघीय  law  in  1975 .
The Elementary and Secondary Education  अधिनियम  of 1965 made standardized testing a requirement , and in 1983 , a commission  थी  established to evaluate their results and propose a  कोर्स  of action .
The resulting No  चाइल्ड  Left Behind Act of 2001 was controversial  और   इसके  goals proved to be unrealistic  .
A commission established in 2006 evaluated higher education  ,  but its recommendations  have   yet  to be fully implemented  .
पॉल  Bragg ( February 6  ,  1895 – December 7 , 1976 ) , nutritionist  ,  was a pioneer in America’s wellness movement .
Health spending per capita , in $  us   ppp-adjusted   ,  with the US  और  Canada compared amongst other first world  राष्ट्र  .
Comparison of the health care systems in Canada  और  the United States are often made by government  ,   पब्लिक   स्वास्थ्य   और  public  नीति  analysts .
The two countries  था  similar health care systems before  कनाडा  reformed its  प्रणाली  in the 1960s and 1970s .
the  United States spends much  अधिक  money on health care  than  Canada , on  दोनो  a  per-capita   आधार  and as a percentage  of   जीडीपी  .
In 2006 ,  per-capita   बिता  for health  परवाह  in Canada was US $ 3,678  ;  in  the  U.S. , US $ 6,714 .
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP on health  परवाह  in  कि   साल   ;  Canada  खर्च  10.0 % .
In 2006 , 70 % of health care spending  in  Canada was financed  by  government  ,  versus 46 % in the United States  .
Total government spending per  capita  in  the   u.S.   on  health care  थी   23  % higher than Canadian government  बिता   ,   और  U.S.  सरकारी  expenditure on  स्वास्थ्य  care was just under 83 % of total  कनाडाई  spending ( public and private ) though these statistics do n't take into  खाता  population  मतभेद  .
Studies  have  come  to   अलग  conclusions  परिचय  the  परिणाम  of this disparity in spending .
A  2007  review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in  a  Canadian peer-reviewed  चिकित्सा  journal found  कि  `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in  कनाडा  versus the United States , but differences are not consistent . ''
Life expectancy  is  longer in Canada , and its  शिशु   मृत्यु  rate is lower than that of  the   u.S.  , but there is debate about  the   underlying  causes of these  मतभेद  .
One commonly cited comparison , the  2000  World Health Organization 's ratings  of  ``  overall   स्वास्थ्य  service  प्रदर्शन  '' , which used a `` composite measure of  उपलब्धि  in the level  of  health , the distribution of health , the level of responsiveness  और  fairness of financial contribution '' ,  क्रमित  Canada  30th  and the US 37th among 191  सदस्य  nations .
इस  study rated the US `` responsiveness  ''  , or quality  of  service for  individuals   receiving  treatment , as 1st , compared with 7th for Canada  .
जबकि   the   औसत   जीवन   प्रत्याशा  for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6  सालो  for residents of the US , simply  comparing  the  जीवन  expectancy  of  two groups with different racial makeup and different  मोटापा  rates is likely not an effective way  of  determining which healthcare system is superior .
the   जो   's  study  विधि  were  criticized  by some analyses .
Although  वहीँ  is a  माप  of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality  चिह्नित   the  most  विश्वसनीय   तरीके   to  compare  nation-wide   स्वास्थ्य  care , assuming the population makeup is similar , a  हाल  report  by  the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data  और  notes  the  `` difficult research  मुद्दे   ''   facing  international comparisons  .
The sound source has now broken through the sound speed barrier , and is traveling at 1.4 times the speed  of   ध्वनि  , (  mach  1.4 ) .
Since  the  source is moving  तेज़  (  साथ  a speed  )  than  the  sound waves it creates , it  दरअसल  leads  the  advancing  तरंगाग्र  .
The sound source will  pass  by a stationary observer ( with a speed  )   पहले  the observer actually  hears  the sound it creates .
As  a  result , an observer in front of the source will detect
and  an  observer behind the  सोर्स  .
a  sonic  बूम   उत्पादित  by  an  aircraft moving at M=2.92 , calculated from the  कोन  angle of 20 degrees .
An observer hears the  बूम  when the shock wave , on the  किनारे  of  the  cone , crosses his or  उसके  location  .
Mach cone  कोण
a  sonic boom is the sound associated with the shock waves created by an  ऑब्जेक्ट  traveling through the  एयर  faster  than  the speed of sound .
Sonic booms generate enormous  amounts  of sound energy , sounding much like an explosion .
The crack of  a  supersonic bullet passing overhead  is  an  उदाहरण  of a sonic  बूम  in miniature .
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno is an  अमरीकी   late-night  talk show  hosted  by Jay Leno that initially aired from May  25   ,  1992  to  May 29 , 2009 , and resumed  उत्पादन  on March 1 , 2010 .
The  चौथी  incarnation of the Tonight Show franchise  बना  its  डेब्यू  on May 25 , 1992 , three  दिनों  following Johnny Carson 's retirement as host of the program  .
The  कार्यक्रम  originates  इससे   एनबीसी  Studios in Burbank ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ,  and is broadcast  सोमवार  through Friday at  11:35  PM in the Eastern and Pacific  समय  zones  (  10:35 PM Central / Mountain time ) .
Unlike Carson or his  पूर्ववर्ती  Jack Paar  ,  Leno only once utilized a guest host , preferring to host the series by himself .
On April 26 ,  1999  ,  the  show  began  broadcasting  in  1080i HDTV , becoming the first American  nightly   बात  show  to   be   शॉट   in  high  परिभाषा  .
the  show is shot in  16:9  aspect  अनुपात   .
The series , which  followed  the  वही  basic format as that of his predecessors (  an  opening monologue followed by comedy routines  ,  interviews and performances ) , ran  जबतक  May 29 , 2009 , after  जिससे  Leno  थी  succeeded by  कोनन  O'Brien .
एनबीसी   हस्ताक्षरित  Leno to  a   नई  deal for a nightly talk  दिखाएँ   in  the 10:00  pm  ET timeslot .
The primetime series , titled  the  Jay Leno Show , debuted on September 14 , 2009 ,  following  a similar format to  the  Leno incarnation of  tonight  .
Neither O'Brien 's version of the program , which premiered June 1 ,  2009  , nor The Jay Leno Show generated the ratings that NBC  था  expected .
the  network decided to move a condensed 30-minute version of  लीनो  's show to  o'brien  's time slot , and O'Brien 's Tonight Show a half-hour later  .
This decision met with opposition from O'Brien , whose stint on The Tonight Show ended January  22  ,  2010  , after which  he   began  his own talk  दिखाएँ   on   tbs   .
The Tonight Show with Jay  लीनो  then began its second and current incarnation  ,  the  छठे  of the franchise , on March  1  , 2010 .
RFID chip next to a grain of  राइस  .
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that  modulates  an  बाह्य  magnetic field to  ट्रांसफ़र  a  coded  identification  क्रमांक  when  queried  by  a   रीडर   यंत्र   .
This  छोटी   प्रकार  is incorporated in consumer products , and implanted  in   पालतु   ,  for identification  उद्देश्य   .
radio-frequency  identification  (  RFID )  is   the  wireless  non-contact  use  of   radio-frequency  electromagnetic fields to transfer data , for the purposes of automatically  identifying   और  tracking tags attached to  वस्तुएँ  .
The tags contain electronically stored information  .
Some tags are powered and read at short ranges ( a few meters  )  via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic  प्रेरण   )  .
अन्य   उपयोग  a local  शक्ति  source such as a battery , or else have no battery but  collect  energy from the  interrogating  EM field  ,  and then act as a passive transponder to  emit  microwaves or UHF  रेडियो  waves ( i.e. ,  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  radiation at high frequencies ) .
Battery powered tags  may  operate at hundreds of  मीटर  .
नापसंद  a bar code , the tag does not necessarily  need  to be within line of sight  of  the reader ,  और  may be embedded in the tracked object .
rfid  tags are used  in  many industries  .
An RFID  टैग  attached to an automobile during  उत्पादन  can be used to track its  प्रगति  through the assembly line  .
Pharmaceuticals  can  be tracked through warehouses  .
पशुधन  and pets may  have   टैग  injected , allowing  धनात्मक  identification  of  the animal .
Since RFID  टैग  can be attached to clothing , possessions , or even implanted within people ,  the  possibility of reading  personally-linked   सूचना   बगैर  consent has  उठाया  privacy concerns .
id  , ego and super-ego are  the  three  भाग  of the psychic apparatus defined in  सिग्मुंड  Freud  's  structural model  of  the psyche ; they  हैं  the three theoretical  constructs   in  terms of whose  कार्यकलाप  and interaction mental life is described .
According to this  मॉडल  of the  psyche   ,  the id is the set of  uncoordinated  instinctual  रुझान   ;  the  super-ego  plays the critical and moralizing role ; and the ego is the organized , realistic part that mediates  between  the desires of the id  और  the super-ego .
The  super-ego  can stop  तुम  from  doing  certain things  कि  your id may want you to do .
Even though the model is structural and  makes  reference to an apparatus  ,   the  id , ego and super-ego are functions of the mind  बल्कि  than parts  of  the brain  और  do not correspond one-to-one with actual  दैहिक  structures of the kind dealt with by  neuroscience   .
The concepts themselves arose  at  a late stage in the development  of  Freud  's  thought :  the  `` structural model ''  (  which succeeded his `` economic model '' and  ``  topographical model '' ) was first  discussed  in his 1920  निबन्ध  `` Beyond the Pleasure Principle ``  और   थी   formalized  and elaborated  upon   तीन   सालो  later in  उसके  `` The Ego and the Id  ``  .
Freud 's proposal  थी  influenced by  the  ambiguity of  the  term ``  बेहोश  `` and its many  conflicting   उपयोग  .
Air Force ROTC emblem
The Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps ( AFROTC  )   is  one of the three  प्राथमिक  commissioning sources for officers  in  the United States Air Force , the other  दो  being  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  Air Force Academy ( USAFA )  और  Air Force Officer  प्रशिक्षण  School ( OTS ) .
a  subordinate command of the  एयर   विश्वविद्यालयों  within the Air  शिक्षा  and Training Command ( AETC ) , AFROTC is  लकीर  under the Jeanne  M.  Holm Center for Officer Accessions and Citizen Development at Maxwell  afb  ,  अलबामा  .
The Holm Center , formerly known as  the  Air  फ़ोर्स  Officer Accession and Training Schools  (   afoats   )  , retains direct  जिम्मेदारी  for both AFROTC  और  OTS .
afrotc  is  the  largest and oldest source of commissioned officers  लिये  the U.S. Air Force .
afrotc  's stated mission is  to  produce quality leaders for the U.S. Air Force .
AFROTC units are located on 144 college and university campuses with  984  additional institutions of higher learning participating  in  cross-town agreements  कि  allow their  विद्यार्थी  to attend AFROTC classes at a nearby ``  मेजबान  ''  कॉलेज   or   विश्वविद्यालयों  .
According to  afoats  HQ , in  2006   ,  AFROTC commissioned 2,083 USAF  दूसरी  Lieutenants , with AFROTC enrollment  ranging  from  23,605  in  1985  to 10,231 in 1993 , and around 13,000 enrolled today  .
AFROTC units at colleges and universities are  पुकारा  `` detachments , '' and are  typically  headed by an active duty USAF officer in  the  rank  of  colonel or lieutenant  कर्नल  who functions as both the Detachment Commander for USAF purposes and  साथ  the nominal title of  प्राध्यापक  of Aerospace Studies (  pas  )  भीतर  the institution 's academic community .
Most colleges and universities will designate the  afrotc  detachment as  the  Department of Aerospace Studies .
The PAS is assisted by  तीन  to four  सहायक  Professors of  aerospace   अध्ययन   (   apas  )  ,  all active duty USAF officers in  the  ranks of major  or  captain .
Three USAF non-commissioned  अधिकारियों  and one senior non-commissioned officer will  typically  provide  सैन्य  administrative  support  and are often augmented  by  one to two civilian  स्टाफ  support  कर्मचारी   of   the  academic  संस्था  .
Within  afrotc  detachments , the  विद्यार्थी  ( referred to  as  `` cadets  ''   )  are organized  into  wings , groups , squadrons , and flights , mirroring the USAF functional wing structure .
The AFROTC detachment  's  cadet wing or  cadet   समूह  is separated into two divisions : the  सामान्य  Military Course  (  GMC ) consisting of the  पहला  two  सालो  of training , and the  पेशेवर   अधिकारी  Course ( POC ) consisting  of   the  last two  सालो  of training .
The AFROTC program  is  also divided into two training  कृत्यों  : the Academic Classroom  कार्यक्रम  ( Aerospace Studies  वर्ग  ) and  cadet  Activities ( i.e. ,  नेतृत्व   प्रयोगशाला  , Physical Training , and other training ) .
पेपर  density ( also known as  आधार  weight and grammage ) is a term used  in  the pulp and paper industry and also for fabric industry to  denote  a measure of mass  of  the product per unit of area for a type of  कपड़ा  , paper or paperboard .
the  term ``  घनत्व   ''  is not  प्रयुक्त   in  its  परंपरागत  sense  of  mass  प्रति  unit volume .
`` Paper  घनत्व  '' , rather ,  is  a measure of the area density  .
Paper products that  let  little or  no   लाइट   pass   through  (  e.g   .  poster board ) are considered dense  or  heavy .
पेपर  products  कि   allow  some light to  pass  through ( e.g  .  tissue paper ) are considered lightweight  .
In the  गूदा  and paper industry ,  it   is  common  to  set a commercial paper machine to produce paper to a target paper density .
Paper density  can   भी  be used  to  distinguish paper from paperboard  as  the latter  प्रायः  has a  grammage   वृहद  than 134 g/m2 .
Two  तरीके  of expressing paper density are commonly  उपयोगd:
Expressed  in  grams per square meter ( g/m2 )  ,  paper density  is  also known as grammage .
इस   is  the measure used in most parts of  the  world .
Expressed in terms of the  द्रव्यमान  ( expressed as weight ) per  क्रमांक  of  चादरें  , it is known as  आधार   वज़न  .
The convention used in the United  राज्य   और  a few other  देशों  using US paper sizes is pounds  of  a ream of 500 ( or  in  some cases 1000 )  चादरें  of a given  (   कच्चा  , still uncut )  आधार  size .
Japanese paper is  expressed  as the weight in  kg  of  1000  sheets .
Candace  निकोल  Parker (  born  April 19 ,  1986   )  is  an  American basketball player  लिये  the WNBA 's Los Angeles Sparks and UMMC Ekaterinburg of Russia .
She is the younger sister of NBA player Anthony  पार्कर  .
She attended the University of Tennessee and was  drafted  by the Sparks in 2008 .
She may be best  ज्ञात   लिये   होने  the first woman to dunk in an NCAA tournament game and the first woman to dunk  twice  in a college game—she set both milestones as a redshirt  freshman  on March 19 , 2006 .
She also became  तभी  the second  खिलाड़ी  to dunk in a WNBA game on  जून  22 , 2008 .
A versatile player , she is mainly a forward , but was listed on Tennessee 's roster as a  आगे  , center  ,  and guard  .
She  थी  a starter  on  the Lady Vols basketball team , winners of the 2007 and 2008 NCAA championships .
Parker won the 2009  निकलोडियन  Kids '  चुनाव  award as the favorite  मादा  athlete in the sports category .
And she  थी  a guest  स्टार  on Figure  it  Out .
A food guide pyramid  is  a pyramid shaped guide of healthy foods divided into sections to show the recommended intake for each food group .
The first food  पिरामिड  was published in  स्वीडन  in  1974   .
The most widely known food pyramid was introduced by  the  United States Department of  कृषि  in the year 1992 , was updated  in  2005 , and then  replaced  in 2011 .
Over 25 other countries and organisations have also published  खाना   पिरामिडों  .
Hans Christian  andersen   (  ; often referred to in Scandinavia as H. C. Andersen ;  अप्रैल   2   ,  1805August 4 , 1875 ) was a Danish author and poet .
Although  a  prolific writer  of  plays , travelogues , novels , and poems , Andersen  is  best  remembered  for his fairy tales , a literary genre he  so  mastered that he  खुद  has become  as  mythical as  the   किस्से  he wrote  .
andersen  's popularity is not limited  to  children ;  उसके  stories—called  ,  or `` fantastic tales '' —express themes that transcend age and nationality .
During his  आजीवन  he was  acclaimed  for having  प्रसन्न   children  worldwide and  थी  feted  by   रॉयल्टी  .
Andersen 's fairy tales , which have been translated into more than  125   भाषाएं  , have become culturally embedded in the  वेस्ट  's collective consciousness , readily  accessible  to children ,  लकिन  presenting lessons of virtue and resilience in  the  face  of   adversity  for mature  पाठक  as well .
They have  प्रेरित  motion  तस्वीरें  , plays , ballets , and animated  films  .
Two figures  locking   आँखें  in Caravaggio 's The Fortune  teller
Eye contact  occurs  when `` two people look  at   प्रत्येक  other  's  eyes  at   the  same  समय   .   ''
in  human beings  ,   नजर   सम्पर्क  is a  रूप  of nonverbal communication and is thought to  have  a  विशाल  influence  on  social behavior  .
Coined in  the  early to mid-1960s , the term has come  in  the West to often  define   the   अधिनियम  as a meaningful and important sign  of  confidence and social communication .
the  customs and significance of eye contact vary widely between  संस्कृतियों  , with  धार्मिक  and social differences often altering  इसके  meaning  greatly  .
The study of eye contact is sometimes known as  oculesics  .
Bed bugs  हैं  parasitic insects of  the  cimicid family that feed exclusively on blood .
the   पद   सबसे   commonly  refers to members of the genus Cimex of which  cimex  lectularius , the common  bed  bug  ,   is  the best known as  it  prefers  to  feed  on  human blood  हालांकि  other Cimex species  हैं  specialized to other animals ,  e.g.  , bat  बग  , C.  pipistrelli  ( Europe ) ,  C.   pilosellus  ( western US  )  , and C. adjunctus  (   संपूर्ण  eastern US ) .
The name  of  the `` bed bug '' is  निकला  from the preferred habitat of Cimex lectularius :  गरम  houses and especially nearby or inside of beds and bedding  or  other sleep areas .
Bed bugs are  मुख्यतः  active at night  ,   लकिन  are not exclusively nocturnal .
They usually feed on their hosts without being noticed .
A number of adverse health effects may result from bed bug bites  ,  including skin rashes , psychological effects ,  और  allergic symptoms  .
Diagnosis involves both finding bed bugs and  the  occurrence of compatible symptoms .
Bed bugs have been known as  इंसान  parasites for  हज़ारों  of years .
at  a point in the early  1940s  , they were mostly eradicated in the  विकसित  world  ,  but have increased in prevalence since 1995 .
Because infestation of human habitats has been on  the  increase , bed  कीड़ा  bites  और  related conditions have been on the rise as well .
The Book of  यशायाह  ( ) is the  पहला  of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible  ,   preceding   ezekiel   ,  Jeremiah and the Book  of   the  Twelve .
( The order of the subsequent  किताबे  differs somewhat  in  the Christian Old  वसीयत  ) .
The first 39 chapters prophesy doom for a sinful Judah  और  for all the nations  of  the world  कि  oppose God , while the  पिछला  27  prophesy  the  बहाली  of the nation  of  Israel and a new  सृष्टि  in God 's glorious  भविष्य  kingdom ; this  खण्ड  includes the Songs  of  the Suffering Servant ,  चार  separate passages referring  to  the nation  of   इसराईल  , interpreted by Christians as prefiguring  the  coming of Jesus  मसीह  .
Tradition ascribes  authorship  of  the   किताब   to  Isaiah son  of  Amoz , but now scholars widely agree that the book is the  कार्य  of three different authors - few scholars deny this view ,  और   those  that do  ,  do so  लिये  theological reasons .
The first , termed  proto-isaiah   (   अध्याय  1–39 ) , contains the words  of  the 8th-century BCE prophet with  7th-century  BCE  expansions  ; the second , Deutero-Isaiah ( chapters  40–55   )  , is the work of  a  6th-century BCE author writing near the  समाप्त  of the  babylonian   captivity  ; and  the  third  ,  the poetic  trito-isaiah  ( chapters 56–66 ) , was composed in Jerusalem shortly after the return from  निर्वासन  ,  संभवतः  by multiple authors .
Oregon  राज्य  University  (  OSU ) is a coeducational , public research university located in Corvallis  ,  Oregon  ,  United  राज्य  .
the  university offers undergraduate  ,  graduate and doctoral degrees  और   a  multitude of research opportunities  .
वहीँ  are more than 200 academic  उपाधि  programs offered through the university .
OSU 's programs  in  microbiology , nuclear engineering  ,   पारिस्थितिकी  , forestry , public health , biochemistry , zoology , oceanography ,  खाना   विज्ञान  and pharmacy are recognized  nationally  as  शीर्ष  tier programs .
The OSU 's liberal  कला  programs have also grown significantly and the department is considered a  ``  cornerstone '' of the institution  .
More  than   200,000  people have  attended  OSU since its founding  .
The Carnegie Foundation classifies  ऑरेगॉन   राज्य  University as part of its top tier  of  research  संस्थानों  .
As of 2008 , OSU  is  one of only seventy-three land-grant universities .
The school is also recognized as a sea-grant , space-grant and sun-grant institution , making it one of only two US institutions to  retain  all four designations and  the   तभी  public university to do so  (  Cornell is the only other with similar  designations  ) .
As one of the two flagship universities of the Oregon University System , OSU receives more funding for research  ,  annually , than all  अन्य  public higher education institutions in Oregon combined .
Female  स्खलन  is the  expulsion  of fluid by  इंसान   महिलाओं  from the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra  दौरान   or  before an orgasm .
It is also known colloquially as gushing or  squirting  , although these are considered to be different phenomena in some  शोध  publications .
The exact source  और  nature of the fluid continue to  be  a topic of debate among medical professionals , which is also related to doubts over  the  existence of the G-Spot .
the   kanab  ambersnail ,  वैज्ञानिक  name Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or  oxyloma  kanabense , is a critically endangered subspecies  or  species of small  ,  air-breathing  जमीन  snail , a terrestrial  pulmonate  gastropod mollusc in  the  family  succineidae  , the amber snails .
the  common  नाम  of the amber snails is  आधारित  on  the  shell , which  is  translucent and  जब   खाली  usually resembles  एम्बर  in  रंग  .
This species is  endemic  to the United  राज्य  , specifically  the  state of Arizona and Utah ,  जहाँ  it was first collected in the early 20th century .
It has been  सूचीबद्ध  as endangered  on   the  United States Fish and Wildlife  सेवा  list of endangered species  चूंकि  8  अगस्त  1991 .
इस  snail lives  in  wetlands  ,  springs , and  seeps  , and only two of its natural habitats are  ज्ञात  to  मौजूद   :   तीन   झीलों  , a  मर्ग   निकट   kanab  , Utah , and Vasey 's Paradise , a spring along the Colorado  नदी  within Grand  canyon  National Park .
In its natural  आवास  it  is  rather  polyphagous  ,  feeding   मुख्यतः  on  जीवाणु  , plants  और  fungi , and reproduces  दौरान  the summer .
Now considered a  critically   endangered   प्रजाति  on the  आईयूसीएन   रेड  List of Threatened Species due  to  a series  of  factors (  सहित   influence  ) , the Kanab ambersnail has been reintroduced to three springs  ऊपर  the historic high water level along the Colorado River .
The Spanish language is the second  सबसे  used language in the United States .
There are more Spanish speakers in  the  United States than there are speakers of Chinese  ,   फ्रेंच  , German , Italian ,  हवाई  , and the Native American languages combined .
According to the 2010 American Community Survey  conducted   by  the U.S. Census Bureau , Spanish is the  प्राथमिक  language  बोला  at home by  लगभग  37  लाख   लोगों   aged  five or older ,  a  figure more than double that of 1990  .
There are 45 million Hispanophones who  बोलो  Spanish as a first or second language  ,   as  well  as  six million Spanish language  विद्यार्थी  ,  composing   the  largest  नेशनल   spanish-speaking  community outside of Mexico and making  स्पेनी  the Romance language and the Indo-European language  साथ  largest number of native  अध्यक्षों  in the world .
Roughly  हाफ  of all U.S. Spanish speakers also speak  अंग्रेज़ी  `` very well ,  ''  based  on  the self-assessment Census question respondents .
The  भाषा  came to the country since  the  16th and 17th centuries with the arrival of  स्पेनी  colonists in  क्षेत्रों  that would later become the states of Florida , Texas , Colorado ,  नई   मैक्सिको  , Arizona , Nevada , Utah ,  और  California and of the Spanish explorers - who explored  क्षेत्रों  of 42 states- .
Also west  of   louisiana   territory  was Spanish between 1763 -  1800  ( year of the French recovery of territory ) ,  बाद  the French and Indian War .
बाद  of the  incorporation  of these states to the U.S. in first half of 19th century ,  the   स्पेनी  language  थी   बाद   reinforced   by  the acquisition  of  Puerto Rico in 1898 and  by  later waves of the Hispanic emigration , basically from Hispanic America , to the  संयुक्त  States beginning in the second half of 19th century until today .
is   a  Latin  शब्द  that means  ``  thus '' or , in  लिखने  , `` it was thus in  the  source material '' .
Sic may also refer to:
Sic , Cluj ,  a  commune  in  Romania
SIC  ,  the regional code for Sicily
Sic  (   रव   कलाकार   )  , styled  as  [  sic  ] ,  स्टेज  name of Jennifer Morris , a Canadian noise artist
sic  ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash  मेटल  band from Torshavn ,  the  capital of the Faroe  आइलैंड्स
`` ( sic ) '' ,  a  song by American band Slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC , the initial  of  Marco Simoncelli  .
SIC as an acronym may  स्टैंड   for:
SiC , Silicon carbide , a semiconducting material , also  प्रयुक्त  to  मेक  metalworking tools
sic  ( cyclecar )  (  Società  इटालियाना  Cyclecars )
मानक  Industrial Classification , a 20th-century U.S. system for  classifying  industries
International  मानक  Industrial Classification  a  UN system for economic activities
Shetland  आइलैंड्स  Council
the Swiss Interbank Clearing system
San  isidro  Club ,  an  Argentine rugby  संघ  club
Standing  निर्वचन   कमेटी  , a committee dedicated  to  the  निर्वचन  of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information criterion in the field of statistics
Second-in-command in the field of aviation
sistema   interconectado  Central power  ग्रिड  in Chile
sociedade  Independente  de  Comunicação ( SIC )  ,   a  television channel in Portugal
समुद्र  Isle City , New Jersey , a coastal town in  the  United States
Segmented Integer  काउंटर  mode , a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang International Circuit  ,  a high-end  racetrack  that  होस्ट   the  Malaysian round  of   सूत्र  1
Shanghai  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   सर्किट  ,  a   मोटर  racing venue  in   शंघाई  , China
Simplified instructional computer ,  a   काल्पनिक  computer  प्रयुक्त   in  systems programming
SIC  (  Sons Idées Couleurs )  ,  an early  twentieth-century   आर्ट  magazine produced by French  लेखक  Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois  कॉलेज  , a two year Junior  कॉलेज  in Harrisburg , Illinois  ,  United States
विशिष्ट   आगमनात्मक  capacity , abbreviated  to  SIC ,  जिससे  is  अधिक  commonly known as the  सापेक्ष  permittivity or  the   परावैद्युत  constant
St Ignatius ' College  ,  Riverview , a Jesuit school in Sydney  ,   ऑस्ट्रेलिया
alt=Five smiling young girls in various  मुद्राएँ  wearing white smocks over thigh-length dresses  of  similar color to their hair .
The Tokyo Mew Mew manga and anime series features  a  cast of characters designed by  मिया  Ikumi .
The series takes place in  टोकियो  , Japan ,  जहाँ   पाँच  adolescent girls , called Mew Mews , are  infused  with the DNA of endangered species to combat aliens attempting to take  over   the  Earth .
The manga series is followed  by   a  short  sequel  series , Tokyo Mew Mew  a  la Mode ,  जिससे  introduces  a  new Mew  mew  and a new threat .
The Mew Mews are  led   by  the  प्रमुख  character  ,  Ichigo Momomiya  ,  whose first task is to gather the  अन्य   चार   mew  Mews : Mint Aizawa , Lettuce  midorikawa  , Pudding Fong , and Zakuro Fujiwara  .
As  the  series progresses , Ichigo goes from having a crush on Masaya  aoyama  to becoming his girlfriend while trying to hide her secret double  जीवन  from him .
The series antagonists include  तीन  aliens  ,   kish  , Pie , and Tart ,  और  their leader , Deep  ब्लू  .
Originally from Earth ,  the  aliens  यहूद  forced to leave long ago due to deadly environmental changes .
They have returned to kill the humans , who they feel are destroying their planet , and reclaim the  ग्रह  .
In a la Mode  ,  middle school student Berry Shirayuki is introduced as  the  sixth Mew Mew and ,  in   the  absence of Ichigo , the temporary leader of the  mew  Mews .
a  la Mode also  introduces  new set of antagonists ,  the  Saint Rose Crusaders , a group  of   इंसान  teenagers with various psychic abilities with a  ख्वाहिश  to create their  अपना  utopia .
Led by  ड्यूक  , they make several attempts  to   मार  Berry ,  आखिरकार  turning the local populace against the Mew Mews .
Ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo Mew  mew  was a story called Tokyo Black Cat Girl  कि  featured a cat-girl battling alien  आक्रमणकारियों  .
After  the  story was transitioned  to   a  more  upbeat  story of five female superheroes , the character designs were redone to  have  a lighter ,  अधिक   रंगीन  feel .
The main series characters were  praised  for being a  पूर्ण   अनुरूप  for the  overall  story , as well as for their cute appearances .
The characters introduced in a la Mode were also praised for their  विज़ुअल  appearances , but criticized as being repeats of the original series .
The character  ड्यूक  was  भी  criticized for having a design reminiscent of the white supremacy  समूह   ,  the Ku Klux Klan .
Middle  triassic  marginal marine sequence of siltstones ( below )  और   limestones  ( above ) , Virgin  गठन  , southwestern Utah  ,   यूएसए
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies  of  water .
Sedimentation is the collective name for processes  कि  cause mineral and/or organic particles ( detritus )  to  settle and  accumulate  or minerals  to  precipitate from a solution .
Particles that form  a  sedimentary rock by  accumulating  are  पुकारा  sediment .
पहले  being deposited , sediment  थी  formed by weathering and erosion in a source area , and then transported to the place of deposition by  जल  , wind  ,  ice , mass movement or glaciers which are  पुकारा  agents of denudation .
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents  of  the Earth 's crust is extensive ,  लकिन  the total  योगदान   of  sedimentary rocks is estimated  to  be only 8 % of the  कुल  volume of  the   क्रस्ट  .
Sedimentary rocks are  तभी  a thin  veneer  over a crust consisting mainly  of  igneous and metamorphic  रॉक्स  .
Sedimentary rocks are deposited  in  layers as strata , forming  a  structure called bedding  .
the  study of  sedimentary  rocks and  चट्टान  strata provides information  परिचय  the subsurface  कि  is useful for civil engineering ,  लिये  example in the  निर्माण  of roads  ,  houses , tunnels , canals  or   अन्य  constructions  .
Sedimentary rocks are also important sources of natural resources like  कोयले  , fossil  fuels  , drinking water or ores .
The  पढ़ाई  of the sequence of sedimentary rock  strata  is  the   प्रमुख  source for scientific  ज्ञान  about the Earth  's  history , including palaeogeography ,  paleoclimatology  and the  इतिहास  of  जीवन  .
The scientific discipline that studies  the  properties and  उत्पत्ति  of sedimentary rocks is called sedimentology  .
Sedimentology  is  both part of geology and physical  भूगोल   और  overlaps partly with other disciplines  in  the Earth sciences , such as  pedology  , geomorphology , geochemistry or structural geology .
350px
इंसानो  are born with over 270 bones , some of which fuse together into a longitudinal axis , the axial skeleton  ,  to which the appendicular  कंकाल  is attached .
Saint Patrick ( ; ; Modern ; ; c.  387  – 17 March c. 460  or  c. 492 ) was a Romano-British Christian missionary and bishop in  आयरलैंड  .
Known as the `` Apostle of Ireland '' , he  is  the primary  संरक्षक  saint of the  द्वीप   साथ  with  संतो  Brigid and Columba .
Two authentic letters from  उसे  survive ,  इससे  which  आइये  the only  generally  accepted details of his  जीवन  .
When he was about 16 , he  थी   captured   इससे  his  घर  and taken as a  स्लेव   to  Ireland  ,   जहाँ  he lived for six  सालो  before escaping and returning to  उसके  family .
After becoming a cleric , he returned to northern and  पश्चिमी   आयरलैंड  as an  ordained  bishop , but little is known about the  स्थान  where he worked .
By the seventh century , he had  already   आइये  to be revered as the patron saint of Ireland .
Most available details of his life are from subsequent hagiographies , and these are now not accepted without detailed  आलोचना  .
the  Annals of Ulster  राज्य   कि  he arrived in Ireland in 432 , ministered in  ulster  around 443  ,  and  died  in  457   or  461  .
The text , however , distinguishes  between  `` Old Patrick  ''  ( thought  to  mean Palladius  )  and  ``  Patrick , archapostle of the Scots , '' who died in 492 .
The actual dates of Patrick 's life can not be fixed with certainty  लकिन  , on  a  widespread  निर्वचन   ,   he   थी   क्रियाशील  as a  मिशनरी  in  आयरलैंड  during the second  हाफ  of the 5th  सदी  .
He is generally credited with  होने  the first bishop of Armagh , Primate  of  All Ireland .
संत  Patrick  's  Day is observed on March  17  , the date of his death .
it   is  celebrated both inside and  बाहर  Ireland , as  दोनो  a religious and , especially outside Ireland ,  धर्मनिरपेक्ष  holiday  .
In the dioceses of  आयरलैंड   ,  it is both a  solemnity  and  a  holy  दिन  of obligation ; outside Ireland ,  it  can  be  a celebration of Ireland itself .
Line segments in the golden ratio
a  golden  आयताकार  with longer side a and  shorter  side b  ,  when placed adjacent to a square with sides  of  length a  ,  will produce a  समान  golden rectangle with longer side a + b and  shorter  side a .
This illustrates the relationship .
in  mathematics and the  कला  , two quantities are  in  the golden ratio if the ratio  of  the sum  of  the quantities to the  larger  quantity  is  equal to the ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller one .
The  फिगर  on the right illustrates the geometric  संबंध  .
Expressed algebraically:
where the Greek letter phi ( )  represents  the golden ratio .
Its value is:
The golden ratio is also called  the  golden section (  लैटिन  : sectio aurea ) or  सुनहरी  mean .
Other names include extreme and mean ratio , medial  खण्ड  ,  दैवी  proportion , divine section ( Latin : sectio divina ) ,  सुनहरी   proportion  ,  सुनहरी  cut , and golden  क्रमांक   .
Many 20th century artists and architects have proportioned their works  to  approximate the golden  ratio—especially   in  the form  of  the golden  आयताकार  , in  जिससे  the  अनुपात  of the longer side to the shorter  is  the golden ratio—believing this proportion to  be  aesthetically pleasing ( see Applications  और  observations below )  .
Mathematicians since Euclid have studied the properties of the golden ratio , including its  रूप  in the dimensions of a  नियमित  pentagon  और  in  a  golden rectangle , which can be cut into a square and a smaller rectangle  साथ   the  same aspect ratio .
The golden ratio has also  महरूम   प्रयुक्त   to  analyze the proportions of natural  वस्तुएँ  as well  as  man-made  प्रणालियों  such as financial markets ,  in  some cases based  on  dubious fits to data .
North Myrtle Beach is a  तटीय   रिज़ॉर्ट  city  in  Horry County  ,  South Carolina , United States .
It was created in  1968  from four existing municipalities north of  myrtle  Beach , and serves as one of the primary tourist towns  साथ  the Grand  strand  .
The population was 13,752  at  the 2010 census .
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe  कि  began on 28 July  1914   और  lasted until 11 November 1918 .
it   थी  predominantly  पुकारा   the  World War or  the  Great War from its occurrence  जबतक  the start of  संसार   युद्ध  II in 1939 , and the  पहला  World  युद्ध  or World War I thereafter  .
it   शामिल   सब  the world 's  ग्रेट  powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the  allies   (  based on  the  Triple Entente of the  संयुक्त  Kingdom , France and Russia ) and  the   सेंट्रल  Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany  ,  Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as  austria–hungary  had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not  डालें   into  the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as  अधिक  nations entered the war : Italy ,  जापानी  and the United  राज्य  joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria  the  Central Powers .
Ultimately ,  अधिक   than  70 million military  कर्मियों  , including 60 million Europeans , were mobilised in  एक  of  the  largest  युद्धों  in history .
More  than   9  million combatants  यहूद  killed , largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous  increases  in the lethality  of  weapons without  सम्बन्धित   सुधार  in  सुरक्षा   or  mobility .
it  was the fifth- deadliest conflict in  संसार   इतिहास  , subsequently  paving  the way for various political changes , such as revolutions  in   अनेक  of the nations involved .
One of the long-term  कल्याणकारी  of the war was  the  resurgence of imperialism  in   the  foreign policies of the great powers of Europe .
अधिक  immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz  फर्डिनेंड   of   ऑस्ट्रिया  ,  the  heir to the  सिंहासन   of   austria-hungary  , on 28 June  1914  by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when  austria-hungary  subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of  सर्बिया   .
Several alliances  formed  over  the  previous decades were invoked  .
Within weeks , the major powers were at war and , via their colonies , the conflict soon spread around the world .
on  28 July , the Austro-Hungarians  fired   the  first shots  of  the war as preparation for the invasion of  सर्बिया  .
जबकि  the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium  और  Luxembourg on the way  to   फ़्रांस  , providing a casus  belli  for  ब्रिटेन  's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the  so-called   चमत्कार  of the Marne —the  पश्चिमी   सामने  settled into a  स्थिर   बैटल  of attrition with a trench  लकीर  that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front ,  the  Russian  फौज   थी  successful against  the  Austro-Hungarians ,  लकिन  was stopped in its invasion  of  East Prussia by the  germans   .
In November the Ottoman  साम्राज्य   joined  the war , opening up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia  और  the Sinai .
Italy and  बुल्गारिया  went to war in  1915   और  Romania in 1916 .
in  Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917  और  a  subsequent   क्रान्ति  in November brought the Russians to terms with the  सेंट्रल  Powers .
After a 1918  जर्मनी  offensive along  the  western front , the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began  प्रवेश   the   trenches  .
Germany  ,  which had its own  ट्रबल  with  क्रांतिकारियों  , agreed to an  armistice  on  11  November 1918 .
The  युद्ध  ended in victory  लिये  the Allies .
Events on  the  home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts  ,  as the participants  आजमाया  to  mobilize   उनके  manpower and economic resources  to  fight  a  total war .
by  the end  of  the war , four major imperial  powers—the   जर्मनी  , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former  दो  lost  a  great amount  of   territory   ,  while the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The map of central Europe was redrawn into several smaller states  .
The  लीग  of  राष्ट्र  was formed in  the  hope of preventing another such  विरोध   .
The European nationalism  शाखित   by  the war and the breakup  of   empires  ,  the   परखना  of Germany  's  defeat and problems  साथ  the Treaty of Versailles are agreed  to  be factors  contributing  to World War II .
camden  is  a  city in  camden  County ,  नई  Jersey , United  राज्य  .
It is  the  county seat , located  आरपार   the  Delaware River from Philadelphia .
as   of   the  2010 United States Census the city had a total  जनसांख्यिकी  of 77,344 , representing a decline  of  2,560 ( 3.2  %   )   इससे  the 79,904 residents  enumerated  during  the  2000 Census  ,  which had in  फेरे   अस्वीकृत   by  7,588  (  8.7 % ) from  the   87,492  counted  in  the 1990 Census .
Camden ranked  as  the  12th-most  populous municipality in the  राज्य   in  2010 after having been  क्रमित  10th in  2000   .
Camden was originally incorporated  as   a   नगर  on  फ़रवरी  13 , 1828 ,  इससे   portions  of the now-defunct Newton Township  ,  while the  क्षेत्रफल  was still part of  gloucester  County .
On March 13 ,  1844  , Camden  became  part of the newly  formed  Camden County .
Although once a thriving center for manufacturing and industry ,  camden  is perhaps best known for its  struggles   साथ  urban dysfunction .
तीन   camden  mayors have been jailed for corruption  ,   the   सबसे  recent being Milton Milan  in  2000  .
Since  2005  the school system and police department have been operated by the state of New Jersey  ;  the takeover  समाप्त  in 2012 .
in  2008 , Camden had  the   उच्चतम  crime rate in the U.S. with 2,333 violent crimes per 100,000 people  जबकि  the  नेशनल  average  थी  455 per 100,000 .
camden  public schools  खर्च  $ 23,770 per student ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil  आधार  ) in the 2009–10 school year and  two-thirds   of  the students  ग्रैजुएट  .
Two out of every five  निवासियों  are below the national poverty line .
amitriptyline  ( Tryptomer  ,   elavil  , Tryptizol , Laroxyl  ,  Saroten , Sarotex , Lentizol , Endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ) .
It  is   the  most  widely   प्रयुक्त  TCA  और  has at least equal efficacy against depression as the newer class  of   ssris  according to a  पढ़ाई  from early 2001 .
As well  as  reducing depressive symptoms , these  प्रकार  of tricyclics also ease  migraines  , tension headaches , anxiety  हमले  and  कुछ  schizophrenic symptoms .
It is also known  to  reduce aggression and violent behavior  .
A computer is  a  general purpose device that can be programmed to carry  आउट  a finite set of arithmetic or  लॉजिकल  operations .
Since a sequence of operations can be readily changed , the computer can solve more than one  दयालु  of problem .
conventionally  , a computer consists of at least one processing element  ,  typically a central processing unit ( CPU  )  and  कुछ   रूप  of memory .
the  processing element carries  आउट  arithmetic and logic operations , and a sequencing and control unit that can change the  अनुक्रम  of operations based on stored  सूचना  .
Peripheral devices allow information to be retrieved from an  बाह्य  source , and  the  result of operations saved  और  retrieved .
The first  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   डिजिटल  computers were developed between 1940  और  1945  in  the United Kingdom and  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
originally  they were the  आकार   of  a large  रूम   ,  consuming as much  शक्ति  as several hundred modern personal computers  (  PCs ) .
In  इस  era mechanical analog computers were used for military  अनुप्रयोग   .
Modern  कंप्यूटर  based on integrated  circuits  are millions to billions of times more capable  than  the early machines ,  और  occupy  a  fraction of the  स्पेस  .
Simple computers are small enough to fit into mobile devices ,  और  mobile computers  can   be  powered by small  बैटरी  .
निजी  computers in  उनके  various forms are icons of the Information Age and are what most people think  of  as “computers.”
However , the embedded computers found in many devices from MP3 players to fighter aircraft and from toys to industrial robots  हैं  the most  numerous  .
``  barefoot  and pregnant  ''  is  a  phrase most  commonly  associated with the  विवादास्पद  idea that  महिलाओं  should not work outside the home and should have many children during their reproductive years .
It has several  अन्य  meanings as  खूब  .
It is a figure  of  speech .
The phrase `` barefoot and pregnant '' was probably first used sometime  पहले  1950 .
An article from 1949 states  ,  ``  by  early 1949 , TWA was—in the words of  इसके  new president , Ralph S. Damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant . ' ''
Its usage  may  date as early as the 1910s  .
An article published in  1958  states the phrase  थी   पहला  used by  a  `` Dr. Hertzler '' 40 years earlier .
``  Some forty years ago , Dr. Hertzler advanced a hypothesis which young women of today seem bent on  proving  correct.  '
The  तभी  way to keep a woman  प्रसन्न  , '  he  said  ,  'is to keep her barefoot  और  pregnant .  '  ''
oakhurst  is a census-designated place and unincorporated community within Ocean Township , in Monmouth  काउंटी  , New Jersey , United States .
As of the  2010  United  राज्य  Census , the CDP  's  population was 3,995 .
University of Phoenix Stadium ,  खोली   अगस्त  1 , 2006  ,  is a multipurpose football stadium located  in  Glendale , Arizona .
it  is the home  of   the  Arizona Cardinals of the National Football League (  एनएफएल  ) and  the  annual Fiesta Bowl .
The stadium is located next door  to  the Jobing.com  एरिना  and  it  features the first fully  retractable  natural grass  playing  surface built in the United  राज्य   on  top  of   an  AirField  प्रणालियों  drainage system  .
An opening on one side of the stadium allows the playing  फ़ील्ड  to move to the exterior of the building  ,  allowing  the  entire natural turf playing surface to be  उजागर  to daylight .
the  stadium has hosted Super Bowl XLII , and the 2011 BCS  नेशनल  Championship Game  ,  a game  कि  it hosts every four years , which set the venue 's entertainment attendance  रिकार्ड  of 78,603 on January 11 ,  2011  .
it  will again host Super Bowl XLIX in 2015  .
The University of Phoenix acquired the naming rights  in  September 2006  ,  shortly after the stadium had opened  अंतर्गत  the name  कार्डिनल्स  Stadium .
the   ``  University  of  Phoenix ``  नाम  is applied as  a  corporate  प्रायोजक   ,  and not as the home stadium of the University ( which has no intercollegiate athletics program ) .
The  स्टेडियम  has  भी  hosted the WWE event WrestleMania  xxvi  with  72,219  fans  in  attendance .
The event was held in  the   स्टेडियम  on  कूच   28th   2010  .
Joshua  लॉरेंस  Chamberlain ( September 8 , 1828 – February 24  ,   1914  ) , born as Lawrence Joshua Chamberlain , was an American college professor  इससे  the State of Maine , who volunteered during the American Civil War  to  join the  संघ  Army .
Although having no  पहले  education in military strategies  ,  he became a  अत्यधिक   आदरणीय  and decorated Union officer , reaching the rank of brigadier general ( and  brevet  major general ) .
लिये  his gallantry  at  Gettysburg , he was awarded the Medal of  सम्मान  .
he  was given the honor of  commanding  the Union  सैनिकों  at the surrender  रस्म  for the infantry of  रॉबर्ट  E. Lee 's Army at Appomattox , Virginia .
After  the  war ,  he  entered politics as a  रिपब्लिकन  and served four one-year terms  of  office as the  32nd  Governor of Maine .
he  served on the faculty , and as president  ,  of  उसके   अल्मा  mater , Bowdoin College .
An  inning  , or  पारी  ,  is  a  fixed-length  segment of a game  in   कोई  of a variety of sports – most notably cricket and baseball during which one team attempts to score while the other team  कोशिशें  to prevent  the   पहला  from scoring .
In cricket ,  the  term  पारी  is both singular and plural and is  सदा  spelled  और  pronounced with  the  terminal `` s '' .
In  बेसबॉल  and softball  ,  the singular form is inning and only  the   बहुवचन   takes  an `` s '' .
In many other  खेल  , the length of the  खेल  is dictated by a  क्लॉक   और   टीमों  swap offensive and defensive roles  dynamically  by taking possession of  a  ball or similar item  .
In baseball and cricket , however ,  एक  team , said to be `` batting '' , attempts to score  ``  runs '' —see  चलाएं  ( baseball )  और  run (  क्रिकेट   )   —while  the other  टोली  , said to be `` fielding  ''  ,  कोशिशें  to prevent the  स्कोरिंग  of  रनों   और  get members of the batting team out .
the  teams  स्विच  places  बाद  the fielding team has  succeeded  in getting a fixed number of players out , making a clock unnecessary .
In  क्रिकेट  , the  पद   पारी  is also used to refer to the play of  एक  particular player ( Smith  था  a poor  पारी  ,  स्कोरिंग  only 12 ) .
By extension , this term can  be  used  in   अंग्रेजों  English  लिये  almost any activity  जिससे  takes a period of time ( The Liberal  सरकारी  had a good innings , but finally lost  दफ्तर  in 1972 , or You  've   था  a fair innings , now it 's  my  turn  ,  meaning  ``  you have spoken for long enough , now let me  बोलो  '' )  .
It is also used in reference  to  someone who has died at a reasonably old age  or   जिया  a rich and rewarding life (  ah  , well .
John was 89 .
At least he had a good innings )  .
The baseball-derived parallel to this  in  American English is  the  term at bat .
According to the Oxford  अंग्रेज़ी  Dictionary  ,  the term innings  रै  been used in  सन्दर्भ   to  cricket since at least 1735 .
As cricket was a  वयस्क  ,  अत्यधिक  organized sport in the 1600s in England , the term 's origin could  खूब  precede this first recorded usage .
The word  inning  meaning 'a gathering in '  is  first recorded in 1522 , and could be related .
Adenosine  deaminase  deficiency , also called  एडीए  deficiency or ADA-SCID , is an autosomal recessive metabolic  विकार  that causes  immunodeficiency  .
It occurs  in  fewer than one in 100,000  सजीव  births worldwide .
It accounts for  परिचय  15  %  of all cases of severe  संयुक्त   immunodeficiency  ( SCID ) .
it  is very rare ,  तुम  have a  3  % chance of getting this gene .
ADA  कमियां   may  be present in infancy , childhood ,  adolescense  ,  or  adulthood .
आयु   of  onset and severity  is   सम्बन्धित   to   कुछ  29 known  genotypes   संबद्ध  with  the   विकार  .
An example  of  urban poverty in this slum in Jakarta  ,  Indonesia
गरीबी  is the state of one who  lacks  a certain amount  of   सामग्री  possessions  or  money .
Absolute  गरीबी  or destitution refers to the deprivation  of  basic human needs  ,  which  commonly   शामिल   खाना  , water ,  स्वच्छता  , clothing  ,  shelter , health care and education .
सापेक्ष   गरीबी  is defined contextually as economic inequality in the location  or   समाज  in which people live .
For  much  of  इतिहास  , poverty was considered largely unavoidable  as  traditional modes  of   उत्पादन  were insufficient  to  give an entire population a comfortable standard of living  .
बाद  the industrial  क्रान्ति   ,   द्रव्यमान   उत्पादन  in factories made wealth  increasingly  more inexpensive  और  accessible .
Of  अधिक  importance is  the  modernization of agriculture  ,  such as fertilizers , in order to provide  पर्याप्त  yield to feed the population  .
The supply  of  basic  needs   can  be restricted by  constraints  on government  सेवाएं  such as corruption , tax avoidance , debt and loan conditionalities and by the brain  नाली  of  स्वास्थ्य  care and educational  पेशेवर  .
Strategies of increasing income to make basic needs more affordable typically include  welfare   ,  economic freedoms  ,  and  providing  financial  सेवाएं   .
Poverty reduction is  a   प्रमुख  goal  और  issue for many international  संगठन  such  as  the  संयुक्त  Nations and the World  बैंको  .
The World Bank  अनुमानित  1.29 billion people  यहूद  living in absolute poverty in  2008  .
Of these , about 400 million people in absolute  गरीबी  lived in  इण्डिया   और  173 million people in China  .
In USA 1 in  5  children lives in poverty .
in   शर्तें  of percentage  of  regional populations ,  sub-saharan  Africa at 47  %  had the  उच्चतम  incidence rate of absolute poverty in  2008  .
between  1990 and  2010   ,  about 663 million people moved above the  निरपेक्ष   गरीबी  level .
स्टिल  , extreme  गरीबी  is a global  चुनौती  ; it is observed in all parts of  the  world , including the  विकसित  economies .
Mushroom poisoning  (   भी  known as mycetism )  refers  to harmful effects from ingestion of toxic  substances  present  in  a mushroom .
ये  symptoms can vary from slight gastrointestinal discomfort to death .
The toxins present are secondary metabolites produced in  विशिष्ट  biochemical  pathways  in the fungal  कोशिकाएं   .
Mushroom poisoning is usually the  परिणाम  of ingestion of wild mushrooms after misidentification of a toxic  मशरूम  as an edible species .
The most common reason for this misidentification is close resemblance in terms of colour and general morphology  of   the  toxic mushrooms  प्रजाति  with edible  प्रजाति  .
Even very experienced wild mushroom gatherers are upon  विरल  occasion poisoned by eating  विषाक्त  species ,  despite  being well aware of the  risks  , through carelessness .
To prevent mushroom poisoning , mushroom gatherers need to be very familiar with  the  mushrooms they  intend   to  collect as well as with any  similar-looking  toxic  प्रजाति  .
In addition , edibility of mushrooms may depend  on  methods  of  preparation for  कुकिंग  .
Collectors also  need  to  be  well  जागरूक  that edibility or  toxicity   of  some species varies with geographic location .
Human height is the distance  इससे  the bottom of the feet to the top of the head  in  a human body , standing erect .
When populations  share  genetic  पृष्ठभूमि  and environmental  कारकों   ,  average height is frequently characteristic within the group .
Exceptional height variation ( around 20 % deviation  इससे   औसत  ) within such a population is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism , which are medical conditions caused by specific genes or endocrine abnormalities  .
In regions of extreme poverty or  prolonged  warfare  ,  environmental factors like chronic malnutrition during childhood or adolescence  may  account  लिये  delayed  विकास  and/or ( in severe cases  )  marked  reductions  in adult stature  भी  without the presence of any  of  these medical conditions  .
Apollo 11  थी   the  spaceflight that landed  the  first humans  ,   अमेरिकी  Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin  ,  on  the  Moon on July 20 ,  1969  ,  at   20:18  UTC  .
Armstrong  became  the first  to  step onto the lunar  सतह   6  hours later on July 21 at  02:56  UTC  .
Armstrong spent  परिचय  two and  a  half hours outside the  spacecraft  , Aldrin slightly less ; and together they collected of  चंद्र  material for return  to  Earth .
A third member  of  the  मिशन  ,  माइकल  Collins , piloted the  कमांड  spacecraft  अलोन  in lunar orbit until  आर्मस्ट्रांग  and Aldrin returned to it  बस  under  a  day later for the  ट्रिप  back  to  Earth .
Launched by a Saturn V rocket from Kennedy Space Center  in  Merritt Island  ,  Florida  on  July 16  ,  Apollo 11  थी  the fifth manned  मिशन  of  नासा   's  Apollo program .
The Apollo spacecraft  था  three  भाग   :   a  Command Module with a cabin for the three  astronauts   जिससे  was the only part  जिससे  landed back on Earth ; a Service Module which supported the  कमांड  Module with propulsion , electrical power , oxygen  और   जल  ;  और  a Lunar Module for landing on the Moon .
बाद  being sent to the Moon by the Saturn V  's  upper stage , the astronauts separated the  spacecraft  from  it  and travelled  लिये  three days  जबतक  they entered into lunar orbit .
Armstrong and Aldrin then moved into  the  Lunar Module and  उतरा  in the  समुद्र  of Tranquility .
They stayed a total of about  21  and  a  half hours on the lunar surface .
बाद  lifting off in the  अपर  part of the Lunar  मोड्यूल  and rejoining Collins  in   the  Command Module , they returned to Earth and landed in  the  Pacific  समंदर  on July 24 .
Broadcast on live TV  to  a  world-wide  audience , Armstrong stepped onto  the  lunar  सतह  and described the  इवेंट  as `` one small step for [ a ] man , one giant leap for  mankind  . ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the Space Race  और   fulfilled  a national goal proposed  in   1961  by  the  late U.S. President John F.  कैनेडी   in  a speech before the United States Congress , `` before this decade is out , of landing a man  on   the  Moon and  returning  him safely  to   the  Earth  .  ''
The  फीफा  World Cup , often simply the  संसार  Cup  ,  is  an  international association football  प्रतियोगिता   लडे   by  the senior men 's  नेशनल  teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association (  फीफा  )  ,   the  sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been awarded every  चार   सालो  since the inaugural  टूर्नामेंट  in 1930 ,  मगर  in  1942  and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War .
The current champions are Spain ,  जो   जीती   the  2010 tournament .
The current format of the  टूर्नामेंट   involves  32 teams competing for the  शीर्षक   at   venues  within the host nation ( s ) over  a  period of about a month ;  इस  phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
a   योग्यता  phase ,  जिससे  currently  takes  place  over  the preceding three years , is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together  साथ  the host  स्वदेश  (  s  )  .
The 19  संसार  Cup tournaments have been won  by  eight different  नेशनल   टीमों  .
Brazil have won  पाँच  times , and they are  the  only team to  have  played in every  टूर्नामेंट  .
The other World Cup  विजेता  are Italy  ,  with four titles ; Germany , with three titles  ;  Argentina  और  inaugural  विजेता  Uruguay , with  दो  titles each ; and England , France , and  स्पेन  , with one title each .
the  World Cup is the world  's  most widely viewed sporting  इवेंट  ; an estimated  715.1  million people watched the final match  of  the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany  .
The next  तीन  World Cups will be hosted  by  Brazil in 2014 ,  रूस  in  2018  , and Qatar in 2022 .
नरसंहार  is  a  term coined  in   1944  by Raphael Lemkin to describe the deliberate and systematic destruction , in whole or in part  ,  of an  जातीय  , racial , religious , or national group .
it  is defined in Article  2  of  the   सम्मेलन  on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as `` any of the following  अधिनियमों  committed with  intent   to  destroy , in whole or in part , a  नेशनल  , ethnical , racial or religious group , as such : killing members of  the  group ; causing serious  bodily  or  दिमागी   नुक़सान  to members of  the  group ; deliberately inflicting  on  the groups  शर्तें  of life , calculated to bring about its  शारीरिक  destruction in whole or  in   भाग  ;  imposing  measures intended to prevent births within the group ; [ and  ]  forcibly transferring children of  the  group to another group .  ''
Skulls of victims of the Rwandan Genocide
The preamble  to  the CPPCG not only states that `` genocide is a crime under  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  law , contrary  to  the spirit and  aims  of the United Nations and  condemned  by the civilized world  ''   ,   लकिन  also that `` at all periods of history  नरसंहार  has  inflicted  great losses on humanity '' .
Determining  कया  historical events  constitute   a  genocide and which are merely criminal  or  inhuman  बर्ताव  is not  a  clear-cut matter .
In nearly every  मामला  where accusations of  नरसंहार  have  परिचालित  , partisans of various sides  have  fiercely disputed the interpretation and details of the event , often to the point of promoting wildly different versions of the facts .
An accusation of genocide  is   कतई   नहीं  taken  हलके  and will almost always be controversial .
The following  सूची   of   genocides  and alleged genocides should be understood in  इस  context  और  can not be regarded  as  the final word on these subjects  .
a   समय   बेल्ट  is a  non-slipping   mechanical  drive belt and the term may refer to either:
Toothed belt , a flexible  बेल्ट  with teeth moulded onto its inner surface
Timing belt ( camshaft ) ,  a  toothed belt used to drive the camshaft  (  s ) within an internal combustion engine
The  संस्कृति  of  the  United  राज्य  is primarily a Western culture , but is  भी   बहकावे  by Native American ,  अफ़्रीकी   ,  Asian , Polynesian , and Latin American cultures .
American culture started its formation over 10,000 years ago with the migration of Paleo-Indians from Asia into the region that is today the continental United  राज्य  .
It  रै  its own unique social and  सांस्कृतिक  characteristics such  as  dialect , music , arts  ,  social  आदतें  , cuisine , and folklore  .
the  United States of  अमेरिका  is an  ethnically  and racially  विविध  country  as  a result  of   large-scale  immigration from many different countries  throughout  its history  .
Its chief early  यूरोपीय  influences came from  अंग्रेज़ी  , Scottish , Welsh and Irish  settlers  of colonial America during British rule .
British culture  ,  due to colonial ties with Britain that  स्प्रेड  the English language , legal system and other  सांस्कृतिक  inheritances  ,  had a formative influence  .
अन्य  important  प्रभाव   आए  from other parts of  पश्चिमी  Europe  ,   विशेषकर  Germany , France , and Italy .
Original  तत्व  also play a strong role , such  as   the   आविष्कार  of Jeffersonian democracy .
थामस  Jefferson 's Notes on the State of Virginia was perhaps the  पहला   influential  domestic cultural  critique  by an American and a  प्रतिक्रियावादी  piece to the prevailing European  सर्वसम्मति  that America 's domestic  मौलिकता  was degenerate .
Prevalent ideas and ideals that evolved domestically , such as  नेशनल  holidays , uniquely  अमरीकी   खेल  , military tradition ,  और  innovations  in  the arts and entertainment give a strong sense of national pride among the population as a whole .
American culture includes  दोनो  conservative and liberal elements  ,  scientific and religious competitiveness , political structures ,  रिस्क  taking and free expression ,  भौतिकवादी  and  moral  elements .
Despite certain consistent ideological principles ( e.g . individualism , egalitarianism , and  आस्था  in freedom  और  democracy ) , American culture has a  किस्में   of  expressions due  to  its geographical scale and demographic  विविधता  .
the  flexibility of  u.S.  culture and its highly  सांकेतिक  nature  सीसे  some researchers to categorize American culture as a mythic identity ; others see it as  अमरीकी  exceptionalism .
It also includes  तत्व  that evolved from Indigenous Americans , and other ethnic  cultures—most  prominently the culture of African Americans , cultures from Latin America , and Asian  अमरीकी  cultures .
Many American  सांस्कृतिक  elements  ,  especially from popular culture  ,  have  स्प्रेड  across the globe through modern mass media .
The United States  रै   प्रायः  been thought of  as  a melting pot ,  लकिन  beginning in the  लेट  1990s and early 2000s  ,  it  रुझान  towards cultural diversity , pluralism and the image of a  सलाद  bowl instead .
Due to the extent of American culture  ,  there  हैं   अनेक  integrated but  अद्वितीय  social subcultures  भीतर   the   संयुक्त  States .
the  cultural affiliations an individual in  the  United States  may  have  commonly  depend  on   सोशल   क्लास  , political orientation and a multitude of demographic  विशेषताएँ   ऐसे  as religious background , occupation and ethnic group  सदस्यता  .
Samoan  (   gagana  fa'a Sāmoa or Gagana  sāmoa  — IPA : ) is the language of the Samoan Islands , comprising the independent country of Samoa and the United  राज्य  territory of American Samoa .
It  is   an  official language—alongside  अंग्रेज़ी  —in  दोनो   jurisdictions  .
Samoan , a Polynesian language , is the  पहला  language for most of the  समोआ  Islands  '   जनसांख्यिकी  of about 246,000  .
With  अनेक  Samoan people living in other countries , the  कुल   क्रमांक   of  speakers worldwide is estimated at 370,000 .
The language is  notable  for the phonological differences between formal and informal speech  as  well  as  a  ceremonial  form  प्रयुक्त  in Samoan  छाये   .
A glucose  सहिष्णुता  test is a medical test in which glucose is given and blood samples taken afterward to determine how quickly  it  is cleared from the blood .
The  परीक्षण  is usually used to test  लिये  diabetes ,  इंसुलिन  resistance , and sometimes reactive hypoglycemia and acromegaly , or rarer disorders of  शर्करा   चयापचय  .
In  the  most commonly  performed  version  of   the  test , an oral glucose tolerance test ( OGTT ) , a standard  खुराक  of  ग्लूकोज  is  ingested  by mouth  और  blood levels are checked two hours later .
Many variations of the GTT have been devised over the  सालो  for  विभिन्न   उद्देश्य  , with different standard  doses  of glucose , different routes of administration , different intervals and durations of  sampling  , and various substances measured in  जोड  to blood glucose .
`` What  परिचय  Me ''  is   a   सोंग   लिखा  by Garry  तुषार  and Frances Swan  ,  first recorded by Australian rock  बैंड  Moving Pictures from their  एल्बम   दिनों  of  innocence  .
it  was the band 's  पहला  number-one single in Australia spending  छह  consecutive weeks on  the  top ; there , it was the  second-highest  selling single  of   1982  .
The success of the song  led  them to America  जहाँ  it became  a  hit , reaching  #  29  on  the U.S . Billboard  hot  100 chart .
the   सोंग  stayed in the U.S. charts for  ऐसे  a long time that it managed to make Billboards top 100 Pop Singles  of  1983 ,  at  #  88  , a rare  feat  for a single with such  a   कम   शिखर  position .
The song made an unusual comeback  in  1989 , peaking at # 46  .
On the left a chicken egg , the egg most commonly eaten by humans , and on the right two quail eggs
Eggs are laid by females of many different species , including birds , reptiles , amphibians , and fish , and have  महरूम   खाया  by mankind for  हज़ारों  of  सालो  .
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a protective eggshell , albumen ( egg white ) ,  और  vitellus ( egg yolk ) ,  contained   भीतर  various thin  झिल्लियों  .
Popular  चुनाव  for egg consumption  हैं  chicken , duck , quail  ,  roe , and caviar ,  लकिन  the egg  सबसे   प्रायः   खपत  by humans is the chicken egg  ,  by a wide  हाशिया  .
Egg yolks and whole eggs  स्टोर   significant  amounts of protein  और   choline   ,  and are widely used in  cookery   .
Due to their protein content , the United States Department of Agriculture (  यूएसडीए  ) categorizes eggs as Meats within  the  Food Guide Pyramid .
Despite the nutritional value  of  eggs , there are some potential  स्वास्थ्य   मुद्दे   arising  from egg quality , storage , and individual allergies .
Chickens and other egg-laying creatures are widely kept throughout  the   संसार   ,  and mass production of  मुर्गा  eggs is a global industry .
In 2009 , an estimated 62.1 million metric  टन  of eggs were  उत्पादित  worldwide from a total  लेटा  flock of approximately  6.4  billion  मुर्गियां  .
There  हैं  issues of regional variation  in  demand  और   अपेक्षा  , as  खूब   as  current debates concerning methods of mass production , with the European Union  's  ban  on  battery farming of chickens .
Major League Soccer  (  MLS )  is  a professional soccer league representing  the  sport  's  highest level  in  the United States  और  Canada .
Sanctioned by the  संयुक्त  States Soccer Federation  (   u.S.  Soccer  )  , the league is composed of 19  टीमों  —  16  in the U.S. and 3 in Canada  .
Seasons  presently  run from March  to   दिसम्बर  , with each team  playing  34 games in the regular season .
टेन  teams compete in  the   postseason  MLS Cup Playoffs culminating in the championship game , the MLS  कप  .
Major  लीग   सॉकर  was founded in 1993 as part  of   the  United  राज्य   '  bid to host  the  1994  फीफा  World Cup .
The  पहला  season took  प्लेस  in 1996 beginning with ten teams  .
Instead  of  operating  as  an association of  independently  owned  टीमों   ,  MLS is a single entity where each team is owned and controlled by the league  's  investors .
The  लीग  's closed  सदस्यता  makes it one of  the  world 's few soccer leagues not  using  promotion and relegation .
The legality of cannabis varies from country  to  country  .
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries and has  महरूम   चूंकि  the beginning of  फैली  cannabis prohibition  in   the  late 1930s .
However  ,  many  देशों  have decriminalized the possession of small quantities of cannabis , particularly  in  North America , South America and Europe .
furthermore  , possession  is  legal or effectively legal  in  the Netherlands  ,  North Korea  और   होता  be in the U.S. states of  कोलोराडो  and Washington if  it  were not for federal  विधि  ,  जिससे  governs persons in all states .
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number  of  countries , including Canada , the Czech Republic and Israel  .
While  संघीय  law in the United  राज्य  bans all  बिक्री  and  कब्ज़ा  of  कैनबिस  , enforcement  varies  widely at  the  state level and  कुछ  states have  स्थापित  medicinal  मारिजुआना  programs in that  खण्डन  federal law  ;  two  राज्य  (  कोलोराडो  and Washington )  have  repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of  कैनबिस  and replaced them with a regulatory regime , also  contrary  to federal  statute  .
Some countries have  कानून  that are  नहीं   as  vigorously prosecuted as others but , apart from  the  countries that offer access to medical marijuana ,  सबसे   देशों  have  विभिन्न  penalties ranging from lenient to  बहुत  severe .
Some infractions  हैं  taken  अधिक   seriously  in some countries than others in regard to the cultivation  ,   उपयोग  , possession or transfer of cannabis  लिये  recreational  उपयोग  .
A few jurisdictions  have  lessened penalties for possession of small quantities of cannabis , making it punishable by confiscation  और  a fine , rather than imprisonment .
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory  उपचार  programs for young or frequent users , with freedom  इससे  narcotic drugs as  the  goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for  औषधीय  purposes .
वहीँ  are also changes in a  अधिक  restrictive direction as  in  Canada .
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly  आम  in  अनेक  countries  और  have resulted in jail sentences and people losing their jobs  .
however  , simple possession can carry  long  jail sentences  in  some countries ,  विशेषकर   in  parts of East Asia and Southeast Asia where the sale of cannabis may  सीसे  to a sentence of life in  थाना   or  even execution .
In  cardiovascular   physiology  , ejection  भिन्न  ( EF ) represents the volumetric  भिन्न  of blood pumped out of the ventricle  (   दिल  ) with each heart  ताल  or cardiac cycle  .
it  can  be  applied to either  the  right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary  वाल्व   into  the pulmonary circulation  or  the left ventricle  जिससे  ejects via the aortic valve into the  प्रणालीगत  circulation .
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is  the  art that allows meaningful mathematical expression  धमक  EF  .
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has  become  a worldwide utility enabling study of cardiac performance reproducibly and inexpensively .
Simplified  ,  Ejection fraction is a mathematical product allowed  by   हृदय  imaging .
As a mathematical term , Ejection Fraction is an extension of the work of  एडाल्फ  Fick in cardiac output  .
Dedicated  प्रौद्योगिकी   ऐसे  as Echocardiography ,  computed  Tomography , Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA scanning have definitively allowed clinically relevant mathematics regarding Ischemia , Congenital  दिल  Disease and Heart Failure .
State Route 14 (  sr   14  ) is a north–south state highway in the U.S. state of California , largely  in  the Mojave Desert  .
The southern portion of the highway is  हस्ताक्षरित  as the  antelope  Valley  फ्रीवे   .
The route connects Interstate 5  ,  or Golden  राज्य  Freeway , near Santa Clarita and  साथ  U.S. Route 395  निकट  Inyokern .
Legislatively  ,  the route extends  दक्षिण  of I-5 to State  रूट   1   in  the Pacific  palisades  area of Los Angeles , however the portion south  of  the junction with I-5 has not been constructed  .
the  southern part of the constructed route is a busy commuter freeway serving and connecting the communities of  सांता   clarita  , Palmdale and  lancaster   साथ  the rest of the  वृहद  Los Angeles area .
The northern portion , from Vincent  (   दक्षिण   of   palmdale  )  to  Route  395  , is  legislatively  named the Aerospace  राजमार्ग  , as the highway serves Edwards Air Force Base , once one of  the   प्राथमिक  landing strips for NASA 's  स्पेस  Shuttle .
This section is  ग्रामीण  ,  following   the  line between the hot Mojave  मरुस्थल   और  the forming Sierra Nevada mountain range .
Most of  रूट  14 is loosely paralleled by a main line of the  दक्षिणी   प्रशांत  Railroad  ,   प्रयुक्त   लिये  the Antelope Valley  लकीर  of  the  Metrolink commuter rail system as well as a connection between  लॉस   एंजिल्स   और  the California Central  घाटी  via Tehachapi Pass .
Linked with US 395 , this  सड़क  connects Los Angeles with such places as Mammoth  पहाड़  , Mono Lake  ,  Yosemite National Park and Reno  ,  Nevada .
Route 14 was  भाग  of  u.S.  Route 6  prior  to truncation in 1964 , when U.S. 6 was a coast-to-coast route  इससे  Long Beach  to   provincetown  , Massachusetts .
The  non-freeway  segment of SR 14 from  चांदी  Queen Road north of Rosamond  to  Mojave is  ज्ञात  as Sierra Highway , as  is  the old routing between Interstate 5  और  Silver Queen Road  जहाँ  SR 14 has  महरूम   स्थानांतरित  to a newer  फ्रीवे  alignment .
Portions of Route 14  remain  signed with  names  associated with US 6  ,  including  मिडलैंड  Trail ,  थियोडोर  Roosevelt Highway  और  Grand Army of  the   गणतंत्र   राजमार्ग  .
This  रूट  is part of the California  फ्रीवे  and  एक्सप्रेसवे   प्रणाली  .
Blindness is  the  condition  of  lacking visual perception due to physiological or neurological factors .
Various scales have been developed to describe the extent of  दृष्टि  loss and define blindness .
Total blindness  is  the complete lack of form and visual light  बोध  and is clinically recorded as NLP , an abbreviation for ``  no  light  बोध   .  ''
Blindness  is  frequently used to describe severe visual impairment with vision  .
those  described as  having  only light perception have no more sight than the ability to tell  लाइट  from dark and the general direction  of  a  लाइट  source .
To determine which people may need special assistance  क्युकी   of  their  विज़ुअल  disabilities  ,  various governmental jurisdictions have formulated  अधिक  complex definitions referred to as legal blindness .
In North America and most of  यूरोपीय   ,  legal blindness  is  defined as  विज़ुअल   तीक्ष्णता  ( vision )  of  20/200 ( 6/60  )  or less in the  बेहतर   नजर  with best correction possible .
This  अर्थात्  that a legally blind individual  होता   have  to stand  इससे  an  ऑब्जेक्ट  to see  it—with  corrective lenses —with the same degree  of  clarity as a normally sighted person could from .
In many areas  ,  people with  औसत   तीक्ष्णता   जो  nonetheless have a visual field of less than 20 degrees ( the norm being 180 degrees  )  are also classified as being legally blind .
Approximately  टेन  percent  of  those deemed legally  अँधा  , by any measure ,  have  no vision .
the  rest have some vision ,  इससे  light perception alone to relatively good acuity .
Low vision is sometimes used to describe visual acuities from 20/70 to 20/200 .
By the 10th Revision of  the  WHO International Statistical Classification of Diseases  ,  Injuries and Causes of Death , low vision is defined as visual  तीक्ष्णता  of  कम  than 20/60 ( 6/18 ) , but equal to or better than  20/200  ( 6/60 ) , or  सम्बन्धित  visual field  घाटा  to less than 20 degrees ,  in  the  बेहतर  eye with  बेहतरीन  possible correction  .
दृष्टिहीनता  is defined as  विज़ुअल  acuity of less than 20/400 ( 6/120 ) ,  or  corresponding visual  फ़ील्ड  loss to less  than  10 degrees , in the better eye with best possible correction  .
Blind people  साथ  undamaged eyes may still  पंजीकरण   लाइट  non-visually  लिये  the  purpose  of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark cycle .
Light signals for this purpose travel through the retinohypothalamic  ट्रैक्ट   और  are not affected by optic nerve damage  परे   जहाँ  the retinohypothalamic tract exits .
Earl Simmons ( born December 18  ,  1970 ) , better known by  उसके  stage names  dmx  and Dark Man  x  , is an American rapper  और  actor .
In 1999 , DMX released his  best-selling  album ...  और  Then There Was X , which  प्रदर्शित  the hit single `` Party Up  (   up  in Here ) ``  .
He has acted  in  films such as Belly , Romeo Must Die , Exit Wounds , Cradle 2 The Grave ,  और  Last Hour .
In 2006 ,  he   स्ट्रक्चर   in  the  वास्तविकता  television series ,  जिससे  was primarily aired on the BET cable television network .
In 2003 ,  dmx   प्रकाशित   a  book of his memoirs entitled , E.A.R.L  .  : The Autobiography of DMX .
DMX released a mixtape The Weigh In as a prelude/promotion towards  उसके   एल्बम  Undisputed ( 2012 ) .
DMX has sold over  30   लाख  records worldwide , making him one  of  the best-selling  hip-hop  artists of all  समय  .
Professional  प्रमाणन  ,  व्यापार  certification , or professional designation , often called  बस  certification  or   योग्यता  ,  is  a designation earned  by   a  person to  assure  qualification to  perform  a  जॉब   or  task .
Not all certifications that use  post-nominal  letters  हैं  an  स्वीकृति  of educational achievement , or an  एजेंसी  appointed  to   safeguard   the  public  ब्याज  .
बग   बनी  is  a  funny animal  कार्टून  character , best remembered for his starring  भूमिकाएँ  in the Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies series of theatrical short films produced by  warner   भाईs.  during the Golden  आयु  of  अमरीकी   एनिमेशन  .
His popularity during this era led to  उसके   बनने   a  corporate mascot of Warner Bros. Entertainment .
Bugs is an  anthropomorphic   धूसर  hare or rabbit who is famous for his  flippant  ,  व्यक्तित्व  , a pronounced New York accent  ,   उसके  portrayal as a trickster , and his catch phrase `` Eh  ...
What  's  up ,  दस्तावेज़  ?  ''
( usually said while chewing a  गाजर  ) .
Bugs has appeared  in  more films than any other cartoon character and is the ninth most portrayed  फिल्मी  personality in  the  world .
according  to his 1990 `` biography  ''   बग  Bunny : 50  सालो  and Only One  धूसर  Hare  ,  Bugs  थी  born on July 27 , 1940 in Brooklyn , New York in a warren under Ebbets Field , home of the Brooklyn Dodgers .
In reality  ,  he  थी  brought  to  life  by  the animators and staff of  लिओन  Schlesinger Productions  (  later Warner Bros. Cartoons ) :  सहित  Tex Avery , who directed Bugs ' early definitive short A Wild  हरे   (  1940 ) ; Robert McKimson , who created Bugs '  निर्णायक  character design ; and  mel  Blanc , who  originated  the  आवाज़  of Bugs  .
the  mucous  झिल्लियों  ( or mucosae or mucosas ; singular mucosa ) are linings of mostly endodermal origin , covered in epithelium , which  हैं  involved in  अवशोषण  and secretion .
They line cavities that are exposed  to  the external environment and  आतंरिक   अंगों   .
They are at several places contiguous  साथ  skin : at the  नथुनों  , the lips  of   the  mouth  ,   the  eyelids , the ears , the genital area ,  और  the anus .
The sticky , thick fluid secreted by the  श्लेष्मक  membranes  और   ग्रंथियों  is termed mucus .
The term mucous  झिल्ली  refers to where they are found  in  the body  और  not  प्रत्येक  mucous membrane secretes mucus .
the  glans clitoridis , glans penis  (  head  of  the  शिश्न  ) , along with the inside of the foreskin and the  clitoral  hood  ,  are  श्लेष्मक  membranes .
The urethra is  भी  a mucous membrane .
The secreted  mucus  traps the  pathogens  in the body , preventing  कोई  further activities  of  diseases  .
A master sergeant is the military rank for a senior non-commissioned officer in some armed forces .
Cake is a form of  ब्रैड   or  bread-like food .
In  इसके  modern  फ़ॉर्म  , it is typically  a  sweet baked dessert  .
In its  oldest  forms , cakes were normally fried breads or cheesecakes ,  और  normally  था  a disk shape .
Determining whether a given food  चाहिए  be classified as bread  ,  cake , or pastry can be difficult .
Modern cake , especially layer  cakes  , normally contain a combination  of  flour , sugar , eggs , and butter  or  oil , with  कुछ  varieties  भी  requiring liquid ( typically milk or water ) and leavening agents ( such as yeast or baking powder ) .
flavorful  ingredients like fruit purées , nuts , dried or candied fruit ,  or  extracts are often added ,  और   numerous  substitutions for the primary ingredients  हैं  possible .
Cakes are often filled with fruit preserves  or  dessert sauces ( like pastry cream ) , iced with  buttercream  or  अन्य  icings  ,  and decorated with marzipan ,  piped  borders  or  candied fruit .
केक  is often the dessert of choice for meals at ceremonial occasions ,  विशेषकर   विवाह   ,   वर्षगांठ  , and birthdays  .
There are  अनगिनत   केक   व्यंजनों   ;   कुछ  are bread-like , some rich and elaborate , and  अनेक   हैं  centuries old .
केक  making  is  no longer  a  complicated procedure ;  जबकि  at one time  considerable  labor  गई   into   केक  making ( particularly the whisking of egg foams ) ,  बेकिंग  equipment and directions have been simplified so  कि  even the most amateur cook may bake a  केक  .
Tamara Faye  lavalley  Bakker Messner ( March 7 , 1942 –  जुलाई  20 , 2007 ) was an American Christian singer , evangelist  ,  entrepreneur , author , talk  दिखाएँ  host , and television personality  .
वो  was married from 1961 to 1992 to  televangelist  , and later  convicted  felon , Jim Bakker .
She  co-hosted  with him on The PTL Club  (  1976–1987 )  .
She  थी  a participant  in  the 2004 season of the reality show  the  Surreal Life .
Cambria is a  गाँव  in Columbia  काउंटी  , Wisconsin  ,   संयुक्त   राज्य   .
The population was 767  at   the  2010 census .
It is part  of  the Madison  महानगर  Statistical Area .
Public policy is the principled guide  to   कार्रवाई  taken by  the   प्रशासनिक  executive branches of  the  state with regard to a class of issues in  a  manner  सतत  with law and institutional customs  .
in  general , the foundation is the pertinent national  और  substantial constitutional law and implementing legislation such as the US Federal code .
further  substrates include both  न्यायिक  interpretations  और  regulations  जिससे  are generally authorized by legislation .
अन्य  scholars define it as a system  of  ``  पाठ्यक्रम   of  action ,  नियामक  measures , laws  ,   और  funding priorities concerning a given topic promulgated  by  a governmental entity or  इसके  representatives . ''
पब्लिक  policy is commonly embodied `` in constitutions , legislative acts , and judicial decisions .  ''
In the United  राज्य  , this concept refers  नहीं  only to the result of policies , but  अधिक  broadly to the decision-making and analysis of  सरकारी   निर्णय  .
As an academic discipline , public policy is studied by professors and  विद्यार्थी  at public policy schools  of  major universities throughout the  देश   .
The U.S. professional association of public policy practitioners ,  शोधकर्ताओं  ,  विद्वानों  , and students  is  the Association  लिये  Public Policy Analysis  और  Management .
Digestion is the mechanical and chemical breakdown  of   खाना   into  smaller  components  that are more easily absorbed into a blood stream , for instance .
Digestion is a form of catabolism  :  a breakdown of large food  अणुओं  to smaller ones .
When  खाना  enters  the  mouth  ,  digestion of the food  starts  by the action  of   mastication  , a form of mechanical digestion  ,  and  the   wetting  contact of saliva  .
Saliva , a liquid secreted  by  the salivary glands  ,   contains  salivary  amylase   ,  an  एंजाइम  which starts  the   पाचन  of starch  in  the food .
After undergoing mastication and  मंड  digestion ,  the  food  होगा  be in the form of a  छोटी  ,  गोलाकार  slurry mass called a bolus .
It will then travel down the esophagus  और  into the stomach by the  कार्रवाई  of peristalsis .
Gastric  रस  in the stomach starts protein digestion .
Gastric juice mainly contains hydrochloric  एसिड   और  pepsin  .
As these two  रसायन  may damage the stomach wall , mucus is secreted by the stomach , providing a slimy layer that acts as a shield against the damaging effects of the chemicals .
At  the  same time protein digestion  is  occurring  ,  mechanical mixing occurs by  peristalsis  , which are waves of muscular contractions that move along the stomach wall .
This allows the mass of  खाना   to  further  मिक्सर  with the digestive enzymes .
After some  समय  ( typically an hour or two in humans  ,  4–6 hours  in  dogs  ,  somewhat shorter  अवधि  in house  बिल्लियों  )  ,  the resulting thick liquid is called  chyme  .
जब  the  pyloric  sphincter valve opens ,  chyme  enters  the   duodenum  where  it  mixes with digestive enzymes from the  अग्न्याशय  , and  तब  passes through  the  small intestine , in which digestion continues .
When the chyme is fully digested , it  is  absorbed into the  रक्त  .
95  % of  अवशोषण  of nutrients  occurs   in  the small intestine .
Water and  खनिज   हैं  reabsorbed back into the blood in  the  colon (  विशाल  intestine )  जहाँ   the  pH is slightly  अम्लीय  about 5.6 ~ 6.9  .
Some vitamins  ,  such  as  biotin and  विटामिन  K ( K2MK7 ) produced by bacteria in  the   कोलन   हैं  also absorbed into the blood  in  the colon .
बर्बाद   सामग्री  is eliminated from  the   मलाशय  during defecation .
Henry  viii  ( 28 June 1491 – 28  जनवरी  1547  )  was  किंग  of England from 21 April 1509  जबतक   उसके  death .
He  थी  lord ,  और   बाद  king , of Ireland  ,  as well as  continuing  the  नाममात्र   अर्जी  by the English  monarchs  to the Kingdom of France .
Henry was the second monarch of the Tudor dynasty , succeeding his  पिता  , Henry  सात   .
Besides his six marriages , Henry VIII is known  लिये  his role in the separation of the Church of England from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry 's struggles with Rome led  to  the separation of the Church of England from papal authority , the Dissolution of  the  Monasteries , and  उसके  own  स्थापना  as the Supreme Head of  the  Church of England .
Yet he remained  a  believer in core Catholic  theological  teachings , even after his excommunication from  the  Roman  कैथोलिक  Church .
Henry oversaw the legal union of England and Wales with the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and  1542  .
In 1513 , the  नई  king allied with the Holy  रोमन  Emperor , Maximillian I  ,   और  invaded France in 1513 with a large , well-equipped army , but achieved little at  a  considerable financial cost .
Maximillian , for his part , used the English invasion to his own ends , and this prejudiced  इंग्लैण्ड  's  क्षमता  to defeat the French .
This foray would prove  the   प्रारंभ  of  an   obsession  for Henry , who  invaded  again in  1544  .
This time , Henry 's  शक्तियां   captured  the important city  of  Boulogne  ,  but again the Holy Roman Emperor , Charles  v  ,  समर्थित  Henry  तभी  as long as he needed to and England , strained by  the  enormous  लागत   of  the  युद्ध   ,  ransomed the city back for peace .
His contemporaries considered  हेनरी  in his  प्रधान  to be an attractive  ,  educated  और  accomplished king , and he has been described as `` one of the most  charismatic  rulers to sit on the English throne '' .
Besides ruling with absolute power , he also engaged  खुद  as an author  और  composer .
His desire  to   provide  England with a male heir  –  which  stemmed   partly   इससे   निजी  vanity and partly because he believed a  बेटी  would be  असमर्थ  to consolidate the Tudor dynasty and the fragile peace that existed following the Wars  of  the  गुलाब  – led to the two things  लिये  which  हेनरी  is most  remembered  :  उसके  six marriages and the English Reformation .
Henry became morbidly obese and his health  suffered  ,  contributing  to his death in 1547 .
He is frequently characterised in his later life as a lustful  ,  egotistical , harsh  ,   और   असुरक्षित  king .
Bongos ( Spanish : bongó  )  are an  afro-cuban  percussion  यंत्र  .
The  ड्रम  are of  अलग  size : the larger drum  is  called in  स्पेनी  the hembra ( female  )  and the smaller the macho  (  male ) .
वे  are membranophones  ,  or  यंत्र  that create sound by a vibration of a stretched membrane .
Different religious groups include different  किताबे   in  their Biblical canons  ,   in  varying  आदेश  ,  और  sometimes divide or combine  किताबे  , or incorporate additional material into canonical  किताबे  .
Christian Bibles range from the sixty-six books of the Protestant canon to the  eighty-one   किताबे  of the Ethiopian Orthodox  tewahedo  Church canon  .
The Hebrew  बाइबल   ,  or Tanakh , contains twenty-four books divided into  तीन   भाग   ;  the five books of the Torah  (  `` teaching '' or ``  विधि  '' ) , the  nevi'im  ( `` prophets ''  )   ,   और  the Ketuvim  (  `` writings '' ) .
The first part  of  Christian Bibles  is  the  बूढ़ा  Testament , which contains ,  at  minimum  ,  the twenty-four books of the Hebrew Bible divided into thirty-nine  किताबे   और  ordered differently from the Hebrew Bible .
The Catholic Church and Eastern Christian churches also hold certain deuterocanonical  किताबे  and passages to be part  of  the  बूढ़ा  Testament canon  .
The  दूसरी  part is the New  वसीयत  , containing twenty-seven books ; the four  canonical  gospels , Acts of the Apostles , twenty-one  epistles  or letters and the Book of Revelation .
The Eastern Orthodox , Oriental Orthodox  और   पूर्वी  Catholic churches may have  नाबालिग  differences in their  सूचियाँ   of  accepted books .
the  list given here for these churches is the  सबसे  inclusive : if at  तनिक   एक  Eastern church  स्वीकृत  the book it is included here  .
The national flag of the United States of  अमेरिका  , often simply referred to as the American flag ,  consists  of thirteen equal  आड़ा  stripes of  रेड  ( top and bottom ) alternating with white , with a blue rectangle in  the  canton ( referred to specifically as the ``  संघ   ''   )  bearing fifty small ,  श्वेत  , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top  और  bottom ) alternating with rows  of  five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50  राज्य  of  the  United States  of  America and the 13  धारियाँ   represent  the thirteen  अंग्रेजों   colonies  that declared  स्वतंत्रता  from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first  राज्य  in the Union .
nicknames   लिये   the  flag include the `` Stars and Stripes '' , `` Old Glory `` , and `` The Star-Spangled  ध्वज  .  ''
Dred  स्कॉट  v. Sandford , , also  ज्ञात  as the  dred  Scott Decision  ,  was a landmark decision by the U.S. Supreme Court .
It made two main rulings .
The first ruling was that African-Americans  यहूद  not citizens ,  और  therefore had no standing  to  sue in federal court .
the  second ruling  थी   कि  the federal government  था  no power to regulate slavery in any  territory  acquired subsequent  to   the  creation of the United States .
Given the first ruling ,  सबसे  scholars and many contemporary  राजनैतिक  figures ( including the leadership of the then-new Republican Party )  माना  that the second ruling was not binding precedent ,  लकिन   mere  dictum .
The rationale  of   the  Supreme  अदालत  regarding the jurisdictional  सत्ताधारी  implied that people of African  descent  ( both slave  और   फ़्री  ) were not protected by the Constitution and  यहूद  not U.S. citizens .
Since passage  of  the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution , both rulings are superseded and no longer  मान्य  precedent  .
Nonetheless  ,   the  case retains historical significance as it is  widely  regarded as the worst  निर्णय  ever made by the Supreme Court .
The opinion of the court , written by Chief Justice Roger B. Taney  ,  stirred debate  .
The decision was 7–2 , and every Justice besides Taney wrote a separate concurrence or  dissent  .
For the first  समय  since Marbury v. Madison , the Court held an Act of Congress to be unconstitutional .
Dred  स्कॉट   ,   an   african-american   स्लेव  , had asked a United States Circuit Court to award him his freedom  क्युकी  he and his master had resided in a  राज्य  ( Illinois )  और  a territory (  विस्कॉन्सिन  Territory ) where  गुलामी  had been banned .
Chief Justice Roger Taney  ,  writing  लिये  the  अदालत  ,  आयोजित  that  स्कॉट  , as a  व्यक्ति  of African ancestry ,  थी  not a citizen of the United States and therefore had no right to  मुकदमा  in federal court .
This  पकड़कर  was contrary to the practice of numerous  राज्य  at the  समय  ,  विशेषकर  Free states , where free blacks  किया  in  फैक्ट  enjoy the rights of citizens , such as  the  right to vote and hold public office .
In what  is  sometimes considered mere  obiter  dictum , the Court went  on  to hold that Congress had no authority to prohibit  गुलामी   in  federal territories because slaves are personal property and the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution protects  प्रॉपर्टी  owners  विरूद्ध  deprivation of their  प्रॉपर्टी  without due process of law .
In  reaching  this decision  ,  Taney had  hoped   to  settle the  growing  controversy surrounding slavery in the United  राज्य  , but it had the opposite effect .
the  decision was fiercely  debated  across the  देश  , as perhaps best  सरंचनाओं  by  the   lincoln–douglas  debates of  1858  .
Abraham Lincoln  ,  the second-ever Republican nominee  लिये  President , was  समर्थ  to win the presidential  चुनाव  in 1860 ; the stopping of the further expansion  of  slavery  थी  a key  रिपब्लिकन  party plank .
the  decision  निभाई  an important role in  the   समय  of state secession and the Civil War  ,  although it is  चरम  to say the decision `` caused ''  the  war  .
The decision  is   acknowledged  for the  influential  role it played in  altering  the national political  लैंडस्केप   :  it is  credited   साथ  launching Abraham Lincoln’s  नेशनल   राजनैतिक  career and ultimately allowing for his  चुनाव  .
हालांकि  the Supreme  अदालत  has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott case , the  अदालत  stated in the Slaughter-House  मामले   कि  at  तनिक  one part of it  था   already  been overruled by the Fourteenth Amendment in 1868 , which begins by stating , `` All  व्यक्तियों   born  or naturalized in  the  United  राज्य  , and  विषय  to  the  jurisdiction thereof , are citizens  of  the  संयुक्त  States and of the State wherein  वे   reside  . ''
To which the  अदालत  noted:
The  पहला  observation  we  have to  मेक  on  इस  clause is  ,   कि  it puts at rest both the  सवाल  which we stated  to  have been the subject of differences  of  opinion .
It declares that persons may be citizens of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  without regard to their citizenship of a particular State , and  it  overturns the Dred  स्कॉट  decision by making all persons born within the United States  और   विषय  to its  क्षेत्राधिकार  citizens  of  the United  राज्य  .
There are dozens  of  neighborhoods in Columbus  ,  Ohio .
Some are  मुश्किल  to  define   ,  as they encompass large areas developed at  अलग   times—often  with sub-neighborhoods within them .
Borders  can  also change based  on  popular understanding  of  the area , as  खूब   as  the whims of the  निवासियों  .
This  आलेख  uses  आंकड़ा  from  the  Datasourcecolumbus  वेब  site  ,  Spotcrime.com , HelloColumbus.com ,  as  well as the various Columbus  क्षेत्रफल  Commissions to define the various areas .
Excerpts  और  border information are drawn directly from the main  आलेख  .
A biologist is a scientist who studies  जीना  organisms and their relationship to their environment .
Biologists involved in basic research attempt  to  discover underlying mechanisms that govern  कैसा   जीवों  work .
Biologists involved in applied research attempt to develop or improve medical  ,  industrial or  agricultural  processes .
Martinus Willem Beijerinck , a botanist and microbiologist
आधार   कूद  from a cliff in a wingsuit .
आधार  jumping , also sometimes written as  b.a.s.e   .   कूद  , is an  कार्यकलाप  where participants  जम्प  from fixed objects and  उपयोग  a parachute to break their fall  .
`` BASE '' is an acronym that stands for  चार  categories of  फिक्स्ड  objects from which one can jump :  इमारतें  , antennas , spans  (  bridges  )  , and earth ( cliffs ) .
the  British  shorthair  is a domesticated cat whose features  मेक  it a popular breed  in  cat shows .
It has been the most popular breed of cat registered  by  the UK 's Governing Council of the Cat Fancy ( GCCF ) since 2001 ,  जब  it overtook the Persian breed  .
The USA Basketball Men 's Senior National  टोली   ,  commonly known as the United  राज्य  men 's national basketball team , represents the  संयुक्त  States  of  America in international men 's basketball .
The USA is the  सबसे  successful team in international competition , winning medals in all seventeen Olympic tournaments it has entered , coming away with fourteen golds .
Two of its gold medal-winning  दस्तों  were inducted to  the  Naismith  मेमोरियल  Basketball Hall  of   कीर्ति  as teams  in  August  2010—the   1960  team , which featured six Hall  of  Famers  (  4 players ,  2  coaches ) , and  the   1992  ``  सपना  Team '' ,  featuring  14 Hall of Famers  (   11  players , 3 coaches  )   .
the   संयुक्त  States is currently ranked first in the FIBA World Rankings .
Traditionally composed of amateur players , a 1989 rule change by  fiba  allowed USA  बास्केट  to field  टीमों  with professional players .
The  पहला  such team , known  as  the `` Dream Team '' , won the gold medal  at  the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona , Spain  ,   playing   in  the final against Croatia .
With the  परिचय   of  professionals , the team was able to spark a second run of  दबदबा  after capturing  तभी  a  कांस्य  medal in 1988 .
A team of  पेशेवर   खिलाड़ी  competed at the  1994  FIBA  संसार   चैंपियनशिप  , finishing  पहला  .
In 1996  ,  2000  ,  2008 , and 2012 the USA  again  captured gold medals .
Facing increased  प्रतियोगिता  , the USA failed  to  win a medal  at  the 2002 FIBA World Championship  ,  finishing sixth .
The 2004  गर्मियाँ   ओलम्पिक  team lost three  खेल  on its way  to  a bronze  पदक  ,  a  record  कि  represented more losses  in  a single year than the country 's Olympic teams had suffered in all previous  olympiads  combined .
Determined to  put  an end to  ये  failures , USA Basketball initiated a  long-term  project aimed  at  creating better , more cohesive teams  .
The USA  जीती  its  पहला  seven games at  the   2006  FIBA World  चैंपियनशिप  in Japan before losing against Greece  in   the   semi-finals  , ending  the  competition  साथ  the bronze medal .
the  USA  जीती  gold two years later , though ,  at   the  2008  गर्मियाँ  Olympics with a dominant performance .
This success was followed  up  at the 2010 FIBA World Championship , where despite fielding a roster featuring  no  players from the 2008 Olympic  टोली  , the USA  किया  not lose  a  single  खेल  en route  to  defeating host Turkey for the gold medal .
the   यूएसए   जारी   इस  streak of dominance by going undefeated and capturing gold once more at the 2012 Summer Olympics  .
The Steelers Super Bowl  xl  ring
जो  Theismann  's  Super  कटोरी  Ring ( right  )
The Super Bowl ring is an  पुरस्कार  in the National Football League given  to   the  winners of the  लीग  's annual World  चैंपियनशिप  game ,  the  Super Bowl  .
चूंकि  only  एक   विंस  Lombardi Trophy is  awarded  to  the  team ( ownership  )  itself , the Super Bowl ring offers  a  collectible  memento  for the actual players and team members  to  keep for themselves to symbolize the victory .
Image showing the  छह  most common speleothems  साथ  labels .
to view labels .
The Witch 's Finger  in  the Carlsbad Caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the Greek  σταλαγμίτης   -  stalagmitês , from  σταλαγμίας  - stalagmias , ``  छोड़ने  , trickling '' )  is  a type of speleothem that rises from the  मंजिल  of a limestone cave due to the  टपकता  of mineralized solutions and the deposition of calcium carbonate  .
इस  stalagmite formation occurs only under certain pH conditions within the underground cavern  .
The corresponding formation on  the  ceiling of a cave  is  known as a  stalactite  .
If these formations  grow  together , the result  is  known as  a  column .
the   हॉल   of  Giants  in  the Carlsbad Caverns
Stalagmites should normally  नहीं  be touched , since  the  rock buildup is formed by minerals  precipitating  out of  the  water solution onto the  बूढ़ा  surface ;  स्किन  oils  can  alter the  सतह  where the mineral water  होगा  cling , thus  affecting  the growth of  the  formation  .
Oils and dirt  इससे  human  सम्पर्क   can  also  दाग  the  गठन  and change its color permanently .
समान  structures  can   भी   रूप  in lava tubes  ,  associated with some types  of  lavacicles ,  हालांकि  the mechanism of  गठन  is very  अलग  .
Stalactites and  stalagmites  can also form on concrete ceilings and floors , although  वे  form much more rapidly there than in the natural cave  पर्यावरण  .
The largest stalagmite in  the   संसार  is high and  is   स्तिथ  in the  गुफा  of Cueva  मार्टिन  Infierno  ,  Cuba .
In the Zagros  kyu  of south Iran ,  लगभग  from the ancient city of Bishapur ,  in  the Shapur cave on the fourth of five terraces stands the  3rd  century  ce  statue of Shapur I , second  शासक  of  the  Sassanid  साम्राज्य  .
The statue , carved from one stalagmite ,  is   nearly  high .
How I  मिले  Your Mother  is  an American sitcom that  premiered  on CBS  on  September 19 , 2005  .
the  show was created by  क्रेग  Thomas and Carter Bays .
How I  मिले  Your Mother  is   framed  by the  साल  2030 , when Ted Mosby ( voiced by Bob Saget ) gathers his daughter (  lyndsy  Fonseca )  और  son ( David  henrie  ) to tell them the story of how he met their mother .
we  flashback to where it  begins   in  2005 with Ted  mosby   (  Josh Radnor ) as a single , 27-year-old architect living with his two best  मित्रों  from Wesleyan University , Marshall  eriksen   (  Jason Segel ) , a law student , and Lily Aldrin ( Alyson Hannigan ) , a  किंडरगार्टन  teacher  ,  who have been dating for almost nine years  जब  Marshall proposes .
Their engagement causes Ted to think about finding his own soul mate ,  much  to  the   disgust  of his friend Barney  stinson  (  neil  Patrick Harris ) , a womanizer with an unnamed corporate job .
And  यूँ  , Ted begins his search for his perfect mate , and meets Robin Scherbatsky  (  Cobie  स्मल्डर्स   )  ,  जिसको  he also befriends .
The 100th episode of How I Met Your Mother  aired  on January 11 , 2010 .
On  दिसम्बर   21  , 2012  ,   the  series was renewed for a ninth season .
On  जनवरी  30 , 2013 , it  थी  announced that Season 9 will be its final season .
Gringo ( ,  ,   )  is a  कठबोली  Spanish and  पुर्तगाली  word used in Ibero-America , to denote  विदेशियों  , often from the United States .
The term can be applied to  किसी   जो  is actually a foreigner ,  or  it can  denote   a  strong association or assimilation into foreign  (   विशेषकर  US ) society and culture .
In Spanish it does not have a negative connotation  .
Roger Axtell , a  सफर  etiquette expert ,  टीप   कि  `` [ t  ]  he  शब्द  gringo is not necessarily  a   ख़राब  word .
It is slang but is  अपमानजनक  only in its use and context . ''
The word was used  in  Spain long before it crossed the Atlantic to denote foreign ,  non-native  speakers of Spanish  .
the  great white shark ,  carcharodon  carcharias , also  ज्ञात  as the great  श्वेत  , white pointer , white  शार्क   ,  or  श्वेत  death , is  a  species of large  lamniform  shark which can be found in the coastal surface waters of all the major oceans .
The  ग्रेट   श्वेत  shark is mainly known for its size , with the largest individuals known to  have  approached or exceeded in  लंबाई  , and in weight  .
This shark reaches its maturity around  15   सालो  of age and can have a  जीवन  span of over 30 years .
The great white shark is arguably  the  world 's largest known extant macropredatory fish ,  और   is  one of the primary predators  of  marine mammals .
It is also known to  शिकार  upon a variety of other marine animals , including fish and seabirds .
It is the only known surviving species of its genus Carcharodon , and is ranked first in having the most attacks on  इंसानो  .
The IUCN list the great white shark as a vulnerable species , while  it  is  शामिल  in Appendix II of CITES  .
the  bestselling novel Jaws by  पीटर   benchley  and the subsequent  ब्लॉकबस्टर  film by  स्टीवन   स्पिलबर्ग  depicted the great white shark as a `` ferocious  man  eater `` .
In reality ,  इंसानो  are not the  पसन्दीदा  prey of the  ग्रेट   श्वेत  shark .
The United  राज्य  Armed Forces are the military forces  of   the  United States of America .
They  consist  of the Army , Navy , Marine  corps  , Air Force  ,   और  Coast  गार्ड   .
The  u.S.  has a strong tradition  of  civilian control  of  the military .
The President is the military  's   overall  head  ,  and helps  रूप  military policy  साथ  the U.S. Department of Defense ( DoD ) , a  संघीय  executive department , acting as the principal  अंग   by  which military policy is carried out  .
The DoD is  headed  by  the  Secretary of Defense ,  जो   is  a civilian and Cabinet  सदस्य  .
the  Defense Secretary is second in  the  military 's chain  of  command ,  बस  below the President  ,  and serves as the principal assistant to the President  in  all  dod-related  matters .
to  coordinate military action with diplomacy , the  अध्यक्ष  has an advisory National Security Council headed by a National Security Advisor .
Both the President  और  Secretary of Defense are advised by a  seven-member  Joint Chiefs of Staff , which  शामिल   the  head of  प्रत्येक  of the Defense Department 's  सेवा   शाखाओं  as well as the chief of the National Guard Bureau .
नेतृत्व  is provided by the Chairman of the Joint  chiefs  of Staff and the Vice  अध्यक्ष   of  the Joint  chiefs  of Staff .
The Commandant  of   the  Coast Guard is not a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff  .
All of the branches  कार्य   साथ  during operations and joint missions  ,  under the  एकीकृत  Combatant  कमांड  , under the authority of the Secretary of Defense  साथ   the  exception of the Coast Guard .
The Coast Guard falls under the administration of the Department of  मातृभूमि  Security  और  receives its operational orders  इससे  the Secretary of Homeland Security .
The Coast Guard may be transferred to the Department  of  the Navy by the President  or  Congress during a  समय  of war .
All five armed services are  among   the   सात  uniformed services  of  the United States ; the others are the  u.S.  Public Health Service Commissioned Corps and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned  corps  .
From the  समय  of its inception ,  the   सैन्य  played a  निर्णायक   भूमिका  in the history  of  the United States .
A sense of  नेशनल  unity and identity was forged as a result  of  victory in the First Barbary War and the Second Barbary War .
Even so , the  संस्थापकों  were suspicious of  a  permanent military  फ़ोर्स  and not until the outbreak  of  World War II did a large standing army become officially  स्थापित  .
The National  सुरक्षा  Act  of  1947 , adopted following World War II and during the Cold War 's onset  ,  created the modern U.S. military framework ; the Act merged previously Cabinet-level Department of War and the  विभाग  of the Navy into the National  सैन्य  Establishment ( renamed the Department of  रक्षा  in  1949  ) , headed  by  the Secretary  of  Defense ; and created  the  Department of the Air Force and National Security  परिषद  .
The U.S.  सैन्य   is  one of the largest militaries in terms  of  number  of  personnel .
it  draws its  जनशक्ति  from a large pool of paid volunteers ; although conscription has been used  in  the past in  विभिन्न  times of both war and peace  ,  it has  नहीं  been used  चूंकि   1972  .
As of 2013 , the U.S.  खर्च  about $ 554.2  अरब  annually to fund  इसके   सैन्य  forces  ,   और  appropriates approximately $ 88.5 billion  to  fund Overseas Contingency  परिचालन  .
Put together ,  the   u.S.   constitutes   roughly  43 percent of the world 's military expenditures  .
The U.S. Armed Forces as a  पूरे  possess  विशाल  quantities  of  advanced and  शक्तिशाली  equipment  ,  along with widespread placement of forces around  the   संसार  , giving them significant  सामर्थ्य  in both defense and power  प्रक्षेप  .
स्वतंत्रता  of speech is the political right  to  communicate one 's opinions  और  ideas using one 's body and property to anyone who  is  willing to  प्राप्त  them  .
the  term freedom  of  expression is sometimes used  synonymously  , but includes  कोई  act of seeking , receiving  और  imparting  सूचना  or ideas , regardless of the medium  प्रयुक्त  .
In practice ,  the  right to  स्वतंत्रता  of speech is not absolute in any country and the right is  commonly   विषय   to  limitations , as  साथ  libel  ,  slander , obscenity  ,   राजद्रोह  ( including ,  लिये  example inciting ethnic hatred ) , copyright  उल्लंघन   ,   रहस्योद्घाटन  of  सूचना  that  is  classified or otherwise  .
the  right to  स्वतंत्रता  of expression is  पहचाना  as a human  सही  under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and  पहचाना  in international human  अधिकारों  law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political  अधिकारों  ( ICCPR ) .
Article 19  of   the  ICCPR  राज्य  that `` [ e ] veryone  shall  have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone  shall   have  the right  to  freedom of  अभिव्यक्ति  ; this right shall include freedom to seek , receive and impart  सूचना  and  विचार  of all kinds , regardless of frontiers , either orally , in writing or in print ,  in  the form  of   आर्ट  , or through any  अन्य  media of his choice '' .
Article 19 goes on to  कह   कि  the exercise of these rights carries `` special  कर्तव्य  and responsibilities `` and may `` therefore be subject to  निश्चित   प्रतिबंध  ''  जब  necessary ``  [   f  ] or  आदर  of the rights or reputation of  अन्य  '' or ``  [  f ]  or  the protection of national security or of public order (  अनुक्रम  public  )  ,  or   of  public  स्वास्थ्य  or  नैतिकता  '' .
Freedom of  वाक  may be legally curtailed in some  धार्मिक  legal systems and in  धर्मनिरपेक्ष  jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious offense , such as the  अंग्रेजों  Racial and Religious Hatred Act  2006   .
The  बिग   बंग  Theory logo .
The Big Bang Theory is an American comedy television series created and  कार्यपालिका   उत्पादित   by  Chuck Lorre and  विधेयक  Prady  .
Like the name of the series itself , with the exception  of  the first episode—  ''  Pilot '' —episode  शीर्षक  of  the  Big Bang  सिद्धान्त  always start with  ``   the  ''  और  resemble the name of a scientific principle ,  सिद्धान्त  or experiment , whimsically referencing a  प्लाट  point or quirk .
,  133  episodes have  aired  .
The Big  बंग  Theory has been renewed for a seventh  ऋतु  .
Dwight David ``  आइक  '' Eisenhower ( pronounced  ,  ;  अक्तूबर  14  ,   1890   –  March 28 , 1969  )  was the 34th President  of  the  संयुक्त  States  इससे  1953 until 1961 .
He had previously been a five-star  सामान्य  in  the  United States Army during World War II and served  as  Supreme Commander  of   the  Allied Forces in Europe ; he had responsibility for planning and supervising the invasion of  उत्तर   अफ़्रीकी  in Operation Torch  in   1942–43   और   the  successful invasion of  फ़्रांस  and Germany in 1944–45 from the  पश्चिमी  Front .
In  1951  , he became the first  परम्   कमांडर  of NATO .
आइज़नहावर  was of Pennsylvania Dutch  ancestry  and was reared  in  a large family in Kansas by parents with  a  robust work ethic and religious background .
As  एक  of six  बेटे  , he was  conditioned  by  a  competitive  माहौल  which instilled  self-reliance   .
He attended and graduated from West Point and  बाद   शादीशुदा  and had  दो   बेटे  .
After World War II ,  आइज़नहावर   परोसा  as Army Chief of Staff under President  हैरी  S. Truman  ,  then assumed the post of President  at  Columbia University .
Eisenhower entered the 1952  अध्यक्षीय  race as a Republican to counter the  non-interventionism  of Senator Robert A.  taft  and  to  crusade against `` Communism , Korea  और  corruption '' .
He  जीती  by a landslide ,  defeating   डेमोक्रेट  Adlai  stevenson  and ending  दो  decades of the New Deal Coalition .
In the first year of his  प्रेसिडेंसी   ,   आइज़नहावर  deposed the leader of  इरान  in the 1953  ईरानी  coup  d'état  and  प्रयुक्त  nuclear threats  to  conclude the  कोरियाई  War with  चीन   .
उसके  New  dekh  policy of  नाभिकीय  deterrence gave priority to inexpensive nuclear weapons while reducing the funding for conventional military forces  ;  the goal was  to  keep pressure on the Soviet Union and  reduce   संघीय   deficits   .
in  1954 , Eisenhower first  articulated  the domino  सिद्धान्त  in his description of the  threat  presented by the spread of communism .
The Congress agreed to his request in 1955 for the Formosa Resolution  ,  which enabled him to prevent Chinese communist aggression against  चाइनीज  nationalists and  स्थापित   the  U.S. policy  of  defending Taiwan .
When the  soviets  launched Sputnik in  1957  ,  he   था  to play catch-up in the  स्पेस  race .
Eisenhower forced Israel , the UK ,  और  France to end their invasion of Egypt during the Suez Crisis  of  1956 .
in  1958 , he sent 15,000 US troops to Lebanon to prevent the pro-Western  सरकारी  from falling to a Nasser -inspired revolution .
Near  the  end  of  his term , his  प्रयत्न   to   नियत  up a summit meeting with the Soviets collapsed because of the U-2 incident .
On the domestic front , he covertly opposed Joseph McCarthy and contributed  to   the   समाप्त  of McCarthyism by  खुलकर  invoking the modern expanded version of executive privilege .
He otherwise left  सबसे  political activity to his Vice  अध्यक्ष  , Richard  निक्सन  .
He was a moderate conservative  जो   जारी  New Deal agencies and expanded Social Security  .
Among his enduring innovations , he launched  the  Interstate Highway System  ;  the Defense Advanced  शोध  Projects  एजेंसी  ( DARPA ) ,  जिससे  led  to   the  internet ,  among  many  invaluable  outputs ; the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA  )  , driving peaceful discovery in space ; the  स्थापना  of strong science education via the National Defense Education Act ; and encouraging  शांतिपूर्ण  use of nuclear power via amendments  to  the Atomic  उर्जा  Act .
In social policy  ,   he  sent federal  सैनिकों  to Little  चट्टान  , Arkansas , for the  पहला   समय  since  पुनर्निर्माण  to enforce federal  अदालत   आदेश  to desegregate public schools .
He also  हस्ताक्षरित  civil  अधिकारों  legislation in 1957 and 1960 to protect  the   सही  to  vote  .
He implemented desegregation of the armed forces in two years and made  पाँच  appointments to  the  Supreme Court  .
He was  the  first term-limited  अध्यक्ष   in   accordance  with the 22nd  amendment  .
Eisenhower 's two terms  यहूद   शांतिपूर्ण  ones  लिये  the most part and saw considerable economic prosperity except for a sharp recession in 1958–59 .
Eisenhower  is  often ranked highly among the U.S.  राष्ट्रपतियों  .
Air Force One is the  आधिकारिक  air traffic control call  चिह्न  of a United States Air Force aircraft carrying the President of the United States  .
in  common parlance the term refers to those Air Force aircraft specifically  designed  ,  निर्मित  , and used  लिये  the  purpose  of transporting the  अध्यक्ष  .
the  Presidential aircraft is a  prominent  symbol  of  the American presidency and its power .
the  idea of designating specific military aircraft to transport the  अध्यक्ष  arose in 1943 , when officials of the United States Army  एयर  Forces – the predecessor to  the   u.S.  Air Force –  became  concerned with relying on commercial airlines to transport  the  President .
A  c-87  Liberator Express was reconfigured for use as  a  presidential transport ;  however  , it was rejected by the Secret Service amid concerns  over  the aircraft  's  safety record  .
a  C-54 Skymaster was  तब  converted for presidential use ; this aircraft , dubbed the  पवित्र  Cow , transported  अध्यक्ष  Franklin D. Roosevelt to the Yalta Conference  in  February 1945 ,  और  was  subsequently   प्रयुक्त  for another two years by President Harry S. Truman .
the  `` Air Force One '' call  चिह्न  was created after a  1953  incident  दौरान  which a flight carrying President Dwight D. Eisenhower entered the same airspace  as  a commercial airline flight using the same call sign .
अनेक  aircraft have been used as Air Force One since the creation of  the  presidential  बेड़े  ,  सहित  two Boeing 707s  introduced  in  the   1960s  and 1970s , respectively  ;   चूंकि  1990 ,  the   अध्यक्षीय  fleet has consisted of two  बोइंग  VC-25As – specifically configured , highly customized Boeing  747-200b  series  वायुयान   .
The  एयर  Force is looking into replacing the two VC-25 aircraft with three replacement aircraft  शुरूआत  in 2017  .
a  wedding anniversary is the anniversary of the date a  विवाह  took place  .
Traditional names  मौजूद  for  सबसे   of   उन्हें  : for instance  ,  50 years  of  marriage is called a ``  सुनहरी  wedding anniversary '' or simply a  ``  golden anniversary '' .
A scanner with Duplexing Automatic Document Feeder .
In multifunction or all-in-one printers  ,  fax machines  ,  photocopiers and scanners  ,  an automatic document  फीडर  or ADF is  a  feature which  takes  several pages and feeds the paper one page at a time into a scanner or copier , allowing the user  to  scan , and thereby copy  ,  print , or fax  ,  multiple-page  दस्तावेज़   बगैर  having to manually replace each page .
सबसे  copiers allow scanning on  the  flatbed or platen (  the  ``  कांच  ''  )  or through a  दस्तावेज़  feeder .
The vast  बहुमत  of fax machines have an ADF , allowing the unattended sending  of  multi-page faxes .
Due to the ubiquity  of  ADF in fax machines  ,  some fax machine owners use the fax machine as a scanner , faxing multi-page documents to  themselves  .
दस्तावेज़   feeders   हैं  described by speed , in pages per minute or ppm ,  और   क्षमता  , usually in a range from  10  sheets to  200  .
There  हैं  two kinds of  दस्तावेज़  feeders  सक्षम  of two-sided ( duplex )  स्कैनिंग  : a reversing  स्वचालित  document  फीडर  or RADF  scans  one side of a page , then flips it and scans the  अन्य  side .
a  duplexing automatic document feeder or DADF  scans  both sides in one pass .
The advantage of  the  DADF is faster speed for two-sided originals  .
RADFs and DADFs  हैं  rated in images per minute ( IPM  )  , the  क्रमांक  of sides  वे  can  स्कैन  each minute .
Fair Park  is   a  recreational and educational complex located in Dallas , Texas ( USA  )  .
The complex is registered as a Dallas Landmark  ,   नेशनल  Historic Landmark and is home to  नौ  museums , six performance  सुविधाएं  , a lagoon  ,  and  the  largest Ferris wheel in North America .
अनेक  of the  इमारतें   on   the   जटिल  were constructed  लिये  the Texas  centennial   exposition  in 1936  जिससे  drew  over  six million visitors .
Most  of  the buildings built for the exposition still survive and it is  पहचाना  as a significant  उदाहरण   of  Art  डेको  architecture .
Fair Park has been designated a Great Place in America  by  the American Planning Association .
The American Planning  संघ  (  apa  )  “is   an  independent , not-for-profit educational organization that provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
The Great Places  in  American  कार्यक्रम  helps to celebrate  क्षेत्रों  with “exemplary character , quality ,  और  planning.”
Being designated as  a  Great Place in America  ,  Fair Park was one of only ten  शहरों  chosen in 2011 .
सैन  Jose ( ; Spanish : St. Joseph  )  is  the  third-largest city in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ,   the  tenth-largest  in  the  u.S.  , and the county seat of Santa  क्लारा  County which is  स्तिथ  at the southern end of San Francisco  खाड़ी  .
सैन  Jose is the largest city  भीतर  Silicon Valley , which  is  a major component of the greater San  फ्रांसिस्को   खाड़ी   क्षेत्रफल  , a region of 8.4 million people and the fifth largest metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  ( CSA ) in the United States .
it  is  the  largest city in Northern California .
San Jose was  संस्थापित  on November  29  , 1777 , as  el  Pueblo de San José  de  Guadalupe , the first civilian town in  the  Spanish colony of Nueva California , which later became Alta  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
The city served  as  a farming community to support  स्पेनी  military installations at San Francisco and Monterey .
When California gained statehood in 1850 ,  सैन  Jose  परोसा  as its first capital .
After  अधिक  than 150 years as a small farming city ,  सैन  Jose and  the  surrounding Santa Clara  घाटी  became  the  last ( and largest  )  contiguous area of undeveloped land surrounding the San Francisco Bay .
सैन   जोस  experienced increased demand for  आवास  from soldiers and  दिग्गजों  returning from World War  ii  .
San Jose then continued its aggressive expansion during the 1950s and 1960s by annexing more land area .
the  rapid growth  of   the   high-technology   और  electronics industries further  त्वरित  the transition from  an  agricultural center , to an urbanized metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल   .
by   the  1990s , San Jose 's location within the  booming  local technology  उद्योग  earned the city its nickname  ,   पूंजी   of  Silicon  घाटी  .
सैन  Jose now maintains global city  औकात  and  is   the  largest city in the  सैन  Francisco Bay Area in terms of population , land area , and industrial development .
The U.S. Census Bureau reported the population  of  the  नगर   to  be  945,942  as  of  the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी   .
as  of April 2013 , the estimated  जनसांख्यिकी  of San Jose was 984,000 .
San Jose , along with the Santa  क्लारा  Valley  ,  experienced about half a century of spectacular suburban  sprawl  , with characteristics  of  intense  शहरी  similar to the Los Angeles area of Southern California .
The city has  लिया  definite steps to  avoid  becoming  ``  L.A. North '' .
however  , the sprawl in San Jose is worse than in Los  एंजिल्स  by measures such  as   जनसांख्यिकी  density and  पब्लिक  transit safety ,  निवेश  ,  और  ridership  .
Europe depicted by Antwerp cartographer  अब्राहम  Ortelius in 1595
The  इतिहास  of Europe  कवर  the people inhabiting the European  महाद्वीप  since it  थी  first populated in prehistoric times to present , with the  पहला   होमो  sapiens arriving between 45,000 and 25,000 BC .
The  earliest  settlers to Prehistoric Europe  आए  during  the  paleolithic era .
The arrival of agriculture  around  7000 BC ushered in the  पाषाणकालीन   आयु  .
Neolithic Europe lasted for 4000 years , overlapping with  metal-using  cultures that gradually spread  throughout  the continent .
technological   अग्रिम  during the prehistoric age tended to arrive from the Middle East , spreading gradually to the northwest .
कुछ  of the best-known civilizations of prehistoric Europe were Minoan and  माइसीनियाई  , which flourished during the  कांस्य  Age until they collapsed in a  छोटी  period of time around 1200 BC .
The period known as classical  प्राचीनता   began  with the rise of the city-states of Ancient Greece .
Greek influence  पहुँचे   इसके  zenith  अंतर्गत   the  expansive empire of  सिकंदर  the Great , spreading throughout Asia .
Northern and western Europe were dominated  by  the La Tène  संस्कृति  , a  precursor  to the Celts .
Rome , a small city-state traditionally founded in 753 BC  ,  would grow to  become  the Roman Republic in 509 BC and would  सफल  Greek culture as the dominant  भूमध्यसागरीय  civilization .
The  कार्यक्रम  of  the  rule of Julius  सीज़र  led to reorganization of the Republic into the Roman Empire .
The empire was later divided by  the  emperor Diocletian into the Western and Eastern empires .
During the later years of the Roman Empire , the Germanic peoples  of   उत्तरी  Europe  grew  in strength and repeated  हमले  led  to  the  पतन  of the Western Roman Empire in AD 476 , a date  जिससे  traditionally marks  the  end of the classical period and the start of the Middle Ages .
During  the  Middle  आयु   ,  the Eastern Roman  साम्राज्य  survived , though modern historians refer to this state as the  बीज़ान्टिन   साम्राज्य  .
In Western  यूरोपीय  , Germanic peoples moved into positions of power in  the  remnants of the  पूर्व  Western Roman Empire and established kingdoms and empires of their own .
Of all of the  germanic   peoples  , the  franks  would  वृद्धि  to a position of  आधिपत्य   over  western Europe , the Frankish  साम्राज्य  reaching its peak under Charlemagne around AD 800 .
Francia  थी  divided into  अनेक  parts ; West Francia would  evolve  into the Kingdom of France , while East Francia would evolve into  the  Holy  रोमन  Empire , a  precursor  to modern  जर्मनी  .
The British Isles were the site of several large-scale  migrations  .
Native  सेल्टिक  peoples had been marginalized  दौरान  the  काल  of Roman Britain , and  जब  the Romans abandoned the  अंग्रेजों  Isles during the 400s , waves  of  Germanic Anglo-Saxons migrated  to  southern Britain and established a  श्रेणी  of petty  kingdoms   in   कया  would  आखिरकार   develop  into the Kingdom  of  England by AD 927  .
During  इस  period  ,  the  किंगडम  of Poland and Kingdom of Hungary  (  1000–1945 )  यहूद  organized  as  well .
The Viking Age , a period of migrations of Scandinavian  peoples  , dominated the period from the late 700s to  the   मध्य  1000s .
Chief among the  viking  states  थी  the Empire of Cnut the Great , a Danish leader who would become king  of  England  ,  Denmark , and  नार्वे  .
The Normans , a Viking people who  settled  in Northern  फ़्रांस   और   संस्थापित  the  duchy  of Normandy , would  have  a significant impact on  अनेक  parts of Europe , from  the  Norman conquest of England to Southern Italy and Sicily .
Another Scandinavian people , the  rus  '  लोगों  , would go on to found Kievan Rus ' , an  जल्दी  state which was a precursor for the  आधुनिक  country of Russia .
as  the Viking Age drew to a close  ,  the period known as the  क्रूसेड  ,  a  series of religiously-motivated military expeditions originally  intended   to  bring the Levant back into  ईसाई  rule  ,  began .
Several  जेहादी  states were founded in the  पूर्वी  Mediterranean .
These were all short-lived  .
The Crusaders would have a  profound  impact  on  many parts of Europe .
Their Sack of Constantinople  in  1204 brought  an  abrupt end to the Byzantine Empire .
Extinct  श्वान   breeds   is  a compilation of  श्वान  breeds that have become extinct .
Wii Speak  is  a microphone accessory  लिये   निन्टेंडो  's Wii video game console .
Connected  to   the  console via  usb   ,  the device can be placed  निकट   the  video  प्रदर्शक   ,   allowing  voice chat to be  conducted  with the entire room .
The device features an LED to indicate when the microphone  is   क्रियाशील   .
वी  Speak was announced at Nintendo  's  2008 E3 media briefing .
It  थी  released  separately   और  bundled with Animal Crossing : City Folk on November 16  ,  2008 , in  उत्तर  America , and  थी  released on December 5 , 2008  ,   in  Europe .
The  वी  Speak accessory is succeeded by the embedded microphone on the Wii U 's  gamepad  controller .
Nissan Intelligent Key®
a  smart  कुंजी   is  an electronic  अभिगम  and authorization system which is  उपलब्धियाँ  as an option or  मानक  in several  गाड़ियाँ  .
it  was first  विकसित   by   siemens  in the mid-1990s and introduced  by  Mercedes-Benz under  the  name  ``  Keyless Go '' in 1998 on the W220 S-Class following its design patent filed by Daimler-Benz on May 17 , 1997 .
Univisión ( ) is  a  Spanish-language television network in the United States .
the  network is primarily dedicated for Latin American families who reside in the United States  .
It has the  largest  audience of Spanish-language  टेलीविज़न  viewers in the world according to Nielsen ratings  .
Randy Falco , ( CEO as of June 29 , 2011 ) COO , has been in charge of the company  चूंकि  the  प्रस्थान  of Univision Communications president and CEO Joe Uva in April 2010 .
in  recent years the network has  पहुँचे  parity with the U.S.  's  five major English-language television networks , and is often a  दमदार   पांचवां  , outranking The CW , with some  fourth-place  weekly placings , and as of 2012 , even  पहला  place rankings for individual programs  over   सब  five English networks due to  the   संजाल   's  consistent  अनुसूची   of   नई  telenovelas all 52 weeks of the  साल  .
univisión  is headquartered in  नई  York  ,  and  रै  its  प्रमुख  studios , production facilities  ,  and operations in Doral , Florida , a suburb of Miami .
In  2009  , another  टेलीविज़न  studio  थी  announced , Univision  studios   ,  to  be   निर्मित  in  doral  .
Univision  is  available on cable and satellite  in  most of the country , with  लोकल   स्टेशन  in  over  50 markets with large Hispanic and Latino populations and a national  केबल  network feed  वितरित  in markets without  either  the availability or the demand for a locally-based  स्टेशन  .
Most of these  स्टेशन  air full local news and other  लोकल  programming  in  addition to network  shows  , and in major markets  ऐसे  as Los  एंजिल्स  , New York  ,   और  Miami the local  newscasts   carried   by  the network 's  owned-and-operated  station ( O & O )  स्टेशन  are equally competitive  साथ  their English-language counterparts ratings-wise .
Univisión was  acquired  on  कूच  29 , 2007 by  a  consortium  led  by Haim Saban 's  saban  Capital Group (  जो  had previously owned the entity Saban  entertainment  )  ,  TPG  पूंजी  , L.P. , Providence  इक्विटी   साझेदार  ,  मैडिसन  Dearborn Partners , and Thomas H. Lee Partners  लिये  $ 13.7 billion or $ 36.25 per share plus  $  1.4 billion in  acquired   कर्ज़  .
The buyout left the  कम्पनी   साथ  a debt level of twelve times its  सालाना  cash flow ,  जिससे  was  twice  the norm in buyouts done over  the  previous two years .
कलाकार  's conception of a  आदिग्रह  disk
The formation  और  of the  सौर  System is estimated  to  have begun 4.6 billion years  पहले  with the gravitational collapse  of  a small  भाग  of a giant molecular cloud .
Most of the collapsing mass collected  in   the  centre ,  forming   the  Sun , while the  बाकी  flattened into a protoplanetary disk out  of   जिससे  the planets , moons  ,  asteroids , and other small Solar System bodies formed .
This widely accepted model , known as the nebular hypothesis , was  पहला  developed  in  the 18th century by Emanuel Swedenborg , Immanuel  kant   ,  and Pierre-Simon Laplace  .
Its subsequent development  रै  interwoven a variety of scientific disciplines  सहित  astronomy , physics , geology , and planetary science  .
Since  the  dawn of the space age in the 1950s and  the  discovery  of  extrasolar  ग्रह  in the  1990s  , the model  रै  been both challenged and refined to account for new observations .
the  Solar System has evolved considerably since its initial formation .
Many moons have formed from circling discs of gas  और  dust around their parent planets ,  जबकि  other moons are  विचार   to   have  formed independently and later been captured by  उनके  planets  .
Still others ,  as  the Earth 's Moon , may be the result of  दानव  collisions .
टक्करों  between bodies have occurred continually up to the  उपस्थित  day and have been central to the evolution of  the   सौर  System .
The  स्थितियाँ   of   the   ग्रह  often  shifted  , and planets have switched  स्थान  .
इस  planetary migration is now thought to  have   महरूम  responsible for much of the Solar System  's  early evolution .
in  roughly 5 billion years , the Sun will cool and  विस्तार  outward  अनेक  times its current  व्यास  ( becoming a red giant  )   ,  before casting off its outer layers  as  a  ग्रहीय  nebula and  leaving   पीछे  a stellar remnant known as  a  white dwarf .
In  the   दूर  distant future  ,  the gravity of passing stars will gradually reduce the Sun  's  retinue of planets .
कुछ   ग्रह  will be destroyed , others ejected into  अंतरतारकीय  space  .
Ultimately , over the course of tens of billions  of  years , it is likely that  the  Sun will be left with none of the original bodies in  कक्षा   around  it .
The Trial ( Kafka 's  असली  German title : , later as , and )  is  a novel written by Franz  काफ्का  in 1914 and 1915 but not published until 1925 .
One  of   काफ्का  's best-known works , it tells the story of a man arrested  और   prosecuted  by a  रिमोट  , inaccessible authority  ,  with the nature of his crime revealed to neither him nor  the  reader .
Like  काफ्का   's  other novels  ,  The Trial  थी   never  completed ,  हालांकि   it   करता  include a chapter which brings  the  story to an end  .
क्युकी  of this  वहीँ   हैं  certain inconsistencies which exist within the novel , such as disparities in timing  in  addition to  अन्य  discontinuities in  narration   .
बाद  Kafka 's  मौत  in 1924 his friend and literary  executor  Max Brod edited the  टेक्स्ट  for  प्रकाशन  by Verlag Die Schmiede .
The original  पाण्डुलिपि  is held at the Museum of  आधुनिक   साहित्य  , Marbach am Neckar , Germany .
In  1999  , the book was  सूचीबद्ध  in  le  Mondes 100 Books  of  the Century and as  no  . 2 of  the   बेहतरीन  German  novels  of the Twentieth Century .
लिसा  Anne  लोएब  ( born March  11  , 1968 )  is  an American singer-songwriter and  अभिनेत्री  .
She launched her career in 1994 with the song  ,  `` Stay  (  I  छूटी  You  )   ``   ,  which was included  in  the film Reality  bites  .
She was the first  कलाकार   to  have a number one single  in  the United States  जबकि   नहीं  signed to a recording contract  .
Her  पाँच  studio CDs include her major label  डेब्यू  , the gold-selling Tails and its follow-up ,  the  Grammy-nominated , gold-selling Firecracker .
Loeb  रै  also worked in film ,  टेलीविज़न  , voice-over work and children’s recordings .
लोएब  has  appeared  in two television series , Dweezil  &   लिसा  , a weekly  culinary   एडवेंचर  for  the   खाना  Network and Number 1 Single ,  a   वास्तविकता  show on the  e  !
Network in 2006 focused  on  her quest for love , success , career , and  परिवार  .
Her  children  's  म्यूज़िक  includes  the  albums Catch  the   चंद्रमा  (  2003  ) ,  और  Camp Lisa (  2008  )  .
Her first joint children 's  किताब   और   एल्बम  Lisa Loeb 's Silly Sing-Along : The  निराशाजनक  Pancake and Other Zany Songs was published  in  2011  .
in  2010 she  संस्थापित  the Lisa Loeb Eyewear  संग्रहण  , which is based on her own designs .
The Coat of  बाहें   of  the State of New Jersey includes:
a  shield with three plows  emblazoned  , representative of New Jersey 's agricultural  परंपरा  .
A forward-facing knight 's helmet .
A horse 's head as the crest  of  the  हेल्मेट  .
The female  आंकड़े  Liberty and Ceres , representative of the  राज्य  's motto  (  see  अगला   मद  ) .
स्वतंत्रता  is holding a staff  supporting  a  ``  liberty cap  ``   ;  Ceres is holding  an  overflowing cornucopia .
the  streamer at the foot of  the  emblem contains the State Motto of New Jersey  ,  `` Liberty and Prosperity  ''  ,  और  the  साल  of statehood , 1776 .
It was originally designed by Pierre Eugene du Simitiere in 1777 and  थी  modified  थोड़ा  in 1928 .
The seal is the central motif  in  the flag of New Jersey and the  ग्रेट  Seal  of  the State of New Jersey .
the  Coat of  बाहें   contains   a  horse 's head .
A helmet showing that New Jersey governs itself accordingly and three plows on a  शील्ड  referring  to   the  State 's agriculture  परंपरा  , giving it the nickname `` Garden State '' .
The two  देवियाँ  represent  the  State motto , `` Liberty  और  Prosperity ''  .
Liberty is  on  the left  .
She is holding  a  staff with  a  liberty cap on  it  , and the  शब्द  liberty underneath her .
The  देवी   on  the right is Ceres , goddess of agriculture .
She is holding a cornucopia with prosperity written  नीचे  her  .
According to the minutes of the New Jersey General Assembly for March 11 , 1896 , the date in which the Assembly  officially  approved  the  flag as the state emblem , the buff  रंग   is  due indirectly to  जार्ज  Washington ,  जो  had ordered on October 2 ,  1779  , that the uniform coats of  the   नई  Jersey  महाद्वीपीय  Line be dark  (  Jersey )  ब्लू  , with  buff   facings  .
Buff-colored facings had until then  महरूम   सुरक्षित   तभी  for his  अपना  uniform and those of other Continental generals and their  aides  .
Then ,  on  February 28  ,  1780 , the Continental  युद्ध   अधिकारियों   in   फिलाडेल्फिया  directed  कि  the uniform coat facings of all regiments were  to  be  the  same as  the  background color of the  regiments   '  state flag .
The  मुहर  is described in New Jersey statute Title 52 ,  §2-1:
`` We Can Work  it  Out  ''  is  a   सोंग   by  the Beatles , written by Paul McCartney and  जॉन  Lennon  .
It was  released  as a `` double  a-sided   ``   सिंगल  with  ``   दिन   tripper   ``  , the first time both sides of a single were so designated in an initial  रिलीज  .
Both songs were recorded during the Rubber Soul sessions  .
The song  is  an  उदाहरण   of  Lennon–McCartney  सहयोग   at   a  depth that happened only rarely after  वे  wrote the hit  singles  of 1963 .
This song , `` A  दिन  in  the  Life `` ,  ``  Baby , You 're a Rich Man ``  और  ``  i  've Got a Feeling `` , are among  the  notable exceptions .
As a medical diagnosis , pedophilia or  paedophilia  is a psychiatric disorder in persons  16  years  of  age or older typically  characterized  by a  प्राथमिक  or exclusive sexual interest toward prepubescent children ( generally age 11 years or  younger  ,  हालांकि  specific diagnosis criteria  लिये  the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ) .
An adolescent  जो   is  16 years of age  or  older must be  at  least five years  पुरानी  than the prepubescent child before the attraction can  be  diagnosed as  pedophilia  .
The term has  a  range of definitions , as found in  psychiatry  , psychology ,  the   देशी  , and  विधि  enforcement .
the  International Classification of Diseases  (  ICD ) defines pedophilia as  a  `` disorder of adult personality and behaviour '' in which there is a  यौन  preference for children of prepubertal or early pubertal age .
According to the  निदान  and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (  dsm  ) , it is a paraphilia in  जिससे  adults or adolescents 16 years  of  age or  पुरानी   have  intense and recurrent sexual urges  towards  and fantasies  परिचय   prepubescent  children that they have either  acted   on  or which cause  उन्हें  distress or interpersonal difficulty .
In popular usage , pedophilia means  कोई  sexual interest in children  or  the act of child sexual abuse , often termed `` pedophilic behavior '' .
For example ,  the  American Heritage Stedman 's Medical Dictionary states ,  ``   pedophilia  is the act  or  fantasy on the  भाग  of  an  adult of engaging  in  sexual activity  साथ  a child  or   children  . ''
This common use application also extends  to  the sexual  ब्याज  in and sexual contact with pubescent or  post-pubescent  minors .
Researchers recommend that these imprecise uses be avoided because although people who  कमिट  child sexual abuse commonly exhibit  the  disorder  ,  some offenders do not meet the clinical  निदान  standards  लिये  pedophilia and these standards  pertain   to  prepubescents  .
Additionally , not all pedophiles  दरअसल  commit such abuse .
Pedophilia  थी  first formally recognized and  नामित  in the late 19th century .
A significant  राशि  of research in  the   क्षेत्रफल  has taken place since the 1980s  .
Although mostly documented in men , there are  भी  women who  प्रदर्शनी  the disorder , and researchers assume available  estimates   underrepresent  the true number of female  pedophiles  .
No cure for pedophilia  रै  been developed ,  लकिन  there are therapies that  can  reduce  the  incidence  of  a person  committing   चाइल्ड  sexual abuse .
In the United States ,  following  Kansas v. Hendricks  ,   sex  offenders who are  diagnosed  with certain mental disorders  ,  particularly  pedophilia   ,  can be subject to indefinite civil commitment , under various state laws ( generically called SVP laws ) and the  संघीय  Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 .
At present , the  सटीक  causes of pedophilia have not  महरूम  conclusively established  .
Research suggests  कि  pedophilia may be correlated with  अनेक  different neurological abnormalities , and often  co-exists  with other personality disorders and psychological pathologies  .
In the contexts of forensic psychology  और  law enforcement , a variety of  typologies  have  महरूम  suggested to  categorize  pedophiles according to  बर्ताव  and motivations  .
Julio César  chávez  ( born Julio  césar  Chávez González on July 12 , 1962  )   is  a retired Mexican professional boxer .
Chávez is considered by many people for their sport statistics the greatest fighter  कभी  to come out  of  Mexico .
He  is  a six-time world champion in three  वज़न   विभाजन  , and for several  सालो  he was considered one of the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world .
in  a career  कि  spanned over  25  years  ,   chávez  won  पाँच  world titles  in  three weight divisions : WBC Super Featherweight in 1984 , WBA Lightweight  in   1987  , WBC Lightweight in 1988 , WBC Light  welterweight  in 1989 , IBF  लाइट   welterweight   in  1990  ,  and WBC Light Welterweight in  1994  .
He holds records for most successful consecutive defenses of world titles ( 27 ) , most  शीर्षक  fights (  37  ) , most title-fight victories ( 31 ) and he is after  जो  Louis with ( 23  )  for most title defenses won by  नॉकआउट  ( 21 ) .
Chávez also has the longest undefeated streak  in   मुक्केबाज़ी  history , 13 years .
His  रिकार्ड  was 89-0-1  going  into his first loss to  फ्रेंकी  Randall and had an 87 fight win streak until his ``  चित्रण  '' with  whitaker  .
Julio César Chávez was  ज्ञात   लिये  his outstanding punching  शक्ति  , devastating body  आक्रमण  , remarkably strong chin and the relentless stalking  of  his opponents .
He ranks #  24  on ESPN 's 50 Greatest Boxers  of   सब  Time .
On December 7 ,  2010   ,  he  थी   inducted   in  the prestigious International Boxing Hall of Fame for the Class of 2011 .
he  is the father  of  prospect  ओमर  Chávez and former WBC Middleweight Champion Julio César Chávez , Jr .
``  Selektion `` on  the  Judenrampe  ,  Auschwitz  ,  May/June 1944  .
To be sent to the right meant slave labor  ;  to the left  ,   the  gas chamber .
This image  shows  the arrival of Hungarian Jews from Carpatho-Ruthenia , many of  उन्हें  from the Berehov ghetto  .
The photographer was Ernst Hofmann  or   बर्नहार्ड  Walter  of  the SS . Image courtesy of Yad  vashem
The  holocaust  ( from the Greek ' : hólos ,  ``  whole '' and  kaustós  , `` burnt '' ) also  ज्ञात  as the Shoah ( Hebrew  :  ,  hashoah  , `` catastrophe '' ;  यहूदी  :  ,  Churben or  hurban   ,   इससे  the Hebrew for `` destruction  ''   )  , was the  द्रव्यमान  murder or genocide  of   लगभग  six million Jews  दौरान  World War II , a programme of  व्यवस्थित   state-sponsored  murder by Nazi Germany , led by Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party , throughout German-occupied territory .
of  the  नौ  million  यहूदियों  who had resided in Europe  पहले  the Holocaust , approximately two-thirds were killed  .
Over one  लाख  Jewish children  यहूद   मारे  in the Holocaust ,  as  were  लगभग  two million Jewish women  और  three million  यहूदी  men .
a  network of over 40,000 facilities in Germany and German-occupied territory were used to concentrate ,  थाम  , and kill Jews and other victims .
Some scholars argue that the mass murder of  the  Romani and  लोगों  with disabilities should be  शामिल  in the definition , and  कुछ  use  the  common  संज्ञा  ``  holocaust  '' to describe  अन्य  Nazi mass murders , including those of Soviet prisoners of war ,  पॉलिश  and  सोवियत  civilians  ,  and homosexuals .
Recent estimates based  on  figures obtained since the fall of the Soviet Union  indicates  some ten to eleven million  नागरिकों   और  prisoners of war  यहूद  intentionally murdered by  the  Nazi regime .
The persecution  और   नरसंहार  were carried out in stages .
विभिन्न  laws  to  remove  the  Jews from civil society , most prominently  the  Nuremberg Laws  ,  were enacted in Germany years before  the  outbreak  of   संसार  War II .
Concentration camps  यहूद  established in which inmates  यहूद  subjected to slave  मजदूर   जबतक  they died of exhaustion or  बीमारी  .
Where  जर्मनी   conquered   नई  territory in eastern  यूरोपीय   ,  specialized units  पुकारा  Einsatzgruppen murdered Jews and political opponents in mass shootings  .
The occupiers  जरूरी  Jews and Romani to be confined in  overcrowded  ghettos before being transported by freight  ट्रैन  to extermination camps where , if they survived the journey , most  यहूद  systematically killed in gas chambers .
Every arm of Germany 's bureaucracy  थी  involved in the logistics that  led  to the genocides ,  turning  the Third Reich into what one Holocaust scholar has  पुकारा  ``  a  genocidal state  ''  .
4-h  in the United  राज्य  is a youth organization administered by  the   नेशनल  Institute  of  Food and Agriculture of the  संयुक्त  States  विभाग  of Agriculture ( USDA ) , with  the  mission of `` engaging youth to reach their  fullest  potential while advancing the field of youth  विकास  .  ''
The name represents  चार  personal  विकास  areas of focus for the organization : head , heart , hands , and health .
The organization has over 6.5 million members  in  the United  राज्य   ,   इससे  ages five  to  twenty-one , in  लगभग  90,000 clubs .
the  goal of  4-h   is  to develop citizenship  ,  leadership , responsibility and life skills of youth  through  experiential learning programs and a positive youth development approach .
Though typically  विचार  of as an agriculturally focused organization as a  परिणाम  of its history , 4-H today focuses on citizenship , healthy living  ,   विज्ञान  , engineering , and  प्रौद्योगिकी  programs .
Today , 4-H  और  related programs exist in over  अस्सी   देशों   around  the world ; the organization and administration varies  इससे  country  to  country  .
Each of these programs operates independently  ,  but  cooperatively  through international  exchanges   ,  global education programs ,  और  communications .
The 4-H motto  is  `` To make the best better '' , while its slogan  is  `` Learn by  doing  '' (  sometimes  written as `` Learn  to   do  by  doing  '' ) .
The national flag of Chile  ,  consists  of   दो  unequal  आड़ा   bands  of white and red and  a   ब्लू   वर्गाकार  the same height  as  the white band  in  the canton  ,  which bears  a  white five-pointed star in the center  .
It was adopted on 18  अक्तूबर   1817   .
The Chilean flag  is  also  ज्ञात  in  स्पेनी  as  la  Estrella Solitaria ( The Lone Star ) .
The star represents a guide to progress  और  honor ;  ब्लू  symbolizes  the   आसमान  and the Pacific Ocean , white is for the snow-covered Andes ,  और  red stands for the  रक्त  spilled to achieve independence .
According to the  एपिक  poem La Araucana  ,  the colors were derived from those from the flag flown by the Mapuche during the  arauco  War  .
`` Flag Day ''  is  held each year  on  the ninth of July to commemorate the 77 soldiers who  died  in  the  1882 Battle  of  La Concepción .
Generation  y  , also known as the Millennial Generation  ,  is the demographic cohort following Generation  x  .
There are  no  precise dates for  जब   पीढी  Y starts and  ends  .
टीकाकारों  use beginning birth dates from the latter 1970s ,  or   इससे  the early  1980s  to  the  early  2000s  .
The Torches  of  Nero , by Henryk Siemiradzki .
according  to  tacitus  ,  नीरो  targeted Christians as  those   जिम्मेदार  for  the  fire .
the  Great Fire of  रोम  (  )  was an  शहरी   आग  that occurred  शुरूआत  19 July AD 64  .
Virginia  (  ) , officially the  राष्ट्रमंडल  of Virginia , is a U.S.  राज्य   स्तिथ  in  the  South Atlantic region of the  संयुक्त  States .
Virginia is nicknamed the `` Old Dominion '' and the `` Mother of  राष्ट्रपतियों  ''  बाद   the  eight U.S. presidents born there .
The geography and climate of the Commonwealth are shaped by  the   ब्लू  Ridge Mountains and the Chesapeake Bay , which provide habitat for  much   of  its flora and fauna .
the  capital of the Commonwealth is Richmond ; and  वर्जिनिया  Beach is the  सबसे  populous city .
Fairfax County is the most populous political subdivision .
the  wealthiest  is  Loudoun County .
The  राष्ट्रमंडल  's population is over eight million .
The area  's  history begins with several indigenous groups , including the  powhatan  .
In 1607 the London Company established the Colony of  वर्जिनिया  as the first permanent  नई  World English colony .
Slave labor and the land  acquired  from  विस्थापित   देशी  American tribes each  निभाई  a significant role in the colony 's early  राजनीती  and plantation economy .
Virginia  थी  one of  the  13  colonies   in   the  American Revolution  और  joined the Confederacy in the American Civil War ,  दौरान  which  रिचमंड   थी  made the Confederate  पूंजी  and Virginia  's  northwestern counties seceded to form the  राज्य  of  वेस्ट  Virginia  .
हालांकि   the  Commonwealth was under conservative single-party rule for  nearly  a century following Reconstruction  ,   दोनो   प्रमुख  national  पार्टियों  are competitive in  आधुनिक  Virginia .
The Virginia General Assembly is  the   oldest  legislature in  the  Western Hemisphere .
The state government  रै  been repeatedly ranked most effective by the Pew Center on the  राज्य  .
It is unique  in  how it treats cities  और  counties equally ,  manages  local roads , and prohibits its  राज्यपालों  from serving  लगातार  terms .
Virginia 's economy has many sectors  :  agriculture in the Shenandoah  घाटी  ; federal agencies  in  Northern  वर्जिनिया   ,  including the headquarters of  the  Department of Defense and CIA ; and military facilities  in  Hampton Roads , the site of the region 's main  seaport  .
Virginia 's public schools and many colleges and universities have contributed to growing media and technology sectors .
As a result , computer chips  have  become  the  state  's  leading export .
Windows Movie Maker  (  formerly known as Windows Live Movie Maker , codenamed Sundance ) is a freeware video editing software by Microsoft .
It is a part of Windows Essentials software suite and offers the ability to create and edit  वीडियो  as well  as  to publish them on  skydrive  , Facebook  ,  YouTube  ,  and Flickr  .
`` Brenda 's  मिला  A Baby '' is the solo debut  सिंगल   by  Tupac Shakur , and tenth track  इससे  his debut album  ,  2Pacalypse  अभी   .
The  सोंग   ,   जिससे  features R & B singer Dave Hollister ,  is  about a twelve year-old girl named Brenda who  जीवनदान   in  a  ghetto  , has a baby , and is incapable of supporting it .
The  सोंग   explores  the issue  of  teen pregnancy and its effect on the young mothers and their families .
Like many of Shakur 's songs , `` Brenda 's Got a baby  ''  draws from the plight of the impoverished .
Using Brenda to represent young mothers  in   सामान्य  , Shakur criticises the low level of support from the  baby   's   पिता  , the government , and society in general  .
Shakur wrote  the   सोंग  when he read a newspaper article about a twelve-year-old girl who got  गर्भवती  from her cousin and ,  क्युकी  she did not want her  अभिभावक  to  जान  about the baby , threw it in a  कचरा   can  .
The official logo of Pokémon for its international  रिलीज  ;  ``  Pokémon  ''  is short for the original  जापानी   शीर्षक   of  ``  जेब  Monsters  ''   .
is a media  मताधिकार  published and owned by Japanese video game  कम्पनी  Nintendo and created by  सातोशी  Tajiri in 1996 .
Originally released as  a  pair of interlinkable  खेल   लड़के  role-playing  वीडियो  games developed by  खेल  Freak , Pokémon has since become the second-most successful and  lucrative   वीडियो   game-based  media franchise in the world ,  पीछे  only Nintendo 's own  मारियो  franchise .
Pokémon properties have since been merchandised into anime , manga ,  व्यापार   ताश  , toys ,  किताबे  ,  और   अन्य  media .
The franchise  मनाये  in 2006  ,   और  , cumulative sales of the video  खेल  ( including home  कंसोल  versions , such  as  the ``  pikachu  '' Nintendo 64  )  have  पहुँचे  more than 200 million copies .
In November 2005 , 4Kids  entertainment  , which had  प्रबंधित  the non-game  सम्बन्धित  licensing of  पोकीमॉन  , announced that it  था  agreed not to renew the  पोकीमॉन  representation agreement .
Pokémon USA Inc. ( now The Pokémon Company  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  ) , a  subsidiary   of  Japan 's Pokémon Co. , now oversees all Pokémon licensing outside  of   एशिया   .
The name Pokémon is the romanized contraction of the  जापानी  brand .
The term  पोकीमॉन  , in addition to referring  to   the   पोकीमॉन  franchise itself , also collectively refers to  the  649  fictional  species that have made appearances in Pokémon media as  of  the  रिलीज  of the fifth generation titles Pokémon Black  2  and White  2  ; with the upcoming releases of  पोकीमॉन  X and Y ,  6  new Pokémon have  महरूम  featured in promotions for the  खेल  .
`` Pokémon ''  is  identical in both the singular  और  plural , as is each individual species name ; it is grammatically correct to  कह  `` one Pokémon ''  और  `` many Pokémon '' ,  as  well as  ``  one Pikachu `` and `` many Pikachu '' .
Cover  of   the  first  संस्करण  of the publication Dada  by   ट्रिस्टन  Tzara ; Zurich , 1917
Dada  (  ) or Dadaism  थी  an art movement of the European avant-garde in the  जल्दी  20th century  .
अनेक  claim Dada began in Zurich  ,  Switzerland in  1916  ,  spreading  to Berlin shortly thereafter but the height of  नई  York Dada  थी   the  year  पहले  in 1915 .
to  quote Dona Budd 's The Language of Art Knowledge , Dada was born out of negative reaction to the horrors of  संसार   युद्ध  I .
This  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  movement was begun by a group  of  artist and poets associated  साथ  the Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich  .
Dada rejected reason and logic ,  prizing   बकवास  , irrationality and intuition .
the   उत्पत्ति  of the  नाम  Dada is unclear ; some believe that it is a  nonsensical  word .
Others maintain that it  originates  from the  रोमानियाई  artists Tristan  tzara  and Marcel Janco 's frequent use  of  the words  da  ,  da  , meaning yes ,  यस  in the Romanian language  .
Another  सिद्धान्त  says that the name `` Dada  ''  came during a meeting of the group  जब  a paper  चाकू  stuck  into  a French-German dictionary happened  to  point to  'डैडa   '  , a French word for 'hobbyhorse  '  .
The movement primarily involved visual arts  ,  literature , poetry  ,  art manifestoes  ,  art theory  ,  theatre , and graphic  डिज़ाइन   ,   और  concentrated its anti-war  राजनीती  through a rejection of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural works .
In addition to being anti-war ,  दादा  was also anti-  बुर्जुआ  and had  राजनैतिक  affinities with  the  radical left .
दादा   क्रियाएँ   शामिल  public gatherings , demonstrations , and publication of  art/literary  journals ; passionate coverage of art  ,  politics ,  और   संस्कृति  were topics often discussed in a variety of media .
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball ,  एमी   hennings  , Hans Arp , Raoul  hausmann   ,   हन्ना  Höch  ,   योहानेस  Baader , Tristan Tzara , Francis Picabia , Richard Huelsenbeck , Georg  grosz   ,  John Heartfield , Marcel  duchamp  , Beatrice Wood , Kurt Schwitters , and Hans  रिक्टर  , among others  .
The movement influenced later  शैलियाँ   जैसे  the avant-garde and downtown music movements , and groups including surrealism  ,  Nouveau réalisme , pop  आर्ट   और  Fluxus .
Dada is the groundwork  to  abstract  आर्ट  and  ध्वनि  poetry , a starting point  लिये  performance  आर्ट  , a prelude to postmodernism , an influence on pop art , a celebration of antiart to be later embraced for anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the  गति  that  lay  the foundation  लिये  Surrealism .
First trophic level .
the  plants in this image , and the algae and phytoplankton  in   the   झील  ,  हैं  primary producers .
They  लो  nutrients from the soil or the water  ,  and manufacture their own food by photosynthesis , using energy from the  सूर्य   .
the  trophic level of an  सजीव  is  the  position it occupies in a food  कड़ी  .
the  word trophic derives from the Greek τροφή ( trophē  )   referring  to food  or  feeding  .
A  खाना  chain represents  a   उत्तराधिकार   of  organisms that  खा   another  organism and are , in turn , eaten  themselves  .
The number of steps an organism is  इससे  the start of the  कड़ी  is a  माप  of its trophic level .
Food chains start at trophic  स्तर  1 with primary producers such as  पौधे   ,  move to  herbivores  at level 2  ,  predators at level 3 and  typically   समाप्त  with carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or  5  .
The  पाथ  along the chain  can   रूप  either a  one-way  flow , or  a  food `` web . ''
Ecological communities with higher biodiversity  रूप  more complex trophic paths .
Four of the most important domesticated silk moths .
Top  to  bottom :  bombyx  mori ,  hyalophora   cecropia  ,  antheraea  pernyi  ,  Samia cynthia .
From Meyers Konversations-Lexikon ( 1885-1892  )
a   silk-producing  raspy cricket  .
Silk is  a  natural protein  fibre  , some forms of which can be  woven   into  textiles .
the   प्रोटीन  fibre  of  silk  is   रचित  mainly of fibroin and produced by  निश्चित   कीट  larvae  to  form cocoons .
The best-known type of silk is obtained from the cocoons of the larvae of the mulberry  silkworm  Bombyx  mori  reared  in  captivity ( sericulture  )  .
the   shimmering  appearance of silk is due  to  the triangular prism -like structure of  the  silk fibre , which allows silk cloth to refract  आवक   लाइट   at  different angles ,  यूँ  producing different  रंगों  .
Silks are  उत्पादित  by  अनेक  other  कीट   ,  but generally  तभी  the silk of moth caterpillars has  महरूम  used  लिये   वस्त्र  manufacturing .
There has  महरूम  some research into other silks , which differ at the  आणविक  level .
Many  silks  are mainly produced by the larvae of insects undergoing complete  metamorphosis  , but  कुछ  adult  कीट  such as webspinners produce silk , and some insects such as raspy crickets produce silk throughout  उनके  lives .
रेशा  production also occurs in Hymenoptera ( bees , wasps , and  चींटियों  ) , silverfish , mayflies , thrips  ,  leafhoppers , beetles , lacewings ,  fleas  , flies  और  midges .
Other  प्रकार  of arthropod produce silk , most notably various arachnids such as spiders  (  see spider silk ) .
Late Show  साथ   दाउद  Letterman is an American late-night talk show hosted by David Letterman on  सीबीएस  .
The show debuted on August  30  ,  1993  , and is produced by Letterman 's production  कम्पनी  , Worldwide  पैंट  Incorporated .
The show 's music director and band-leader  of   the  house  बैंड   ,  the CBS Orchestra , is Paul  shaffer  .
The  सिर  writer is Matt Roberts and the  उद्घोषक  is Alan Kalter .
Of  the  major U.S. late-night programs , Late Show ranks second in cumulative  औसत  viewers  over  time and third in number  of  episodes  over  time .
The show leads other  लेट  night shows in ad revenue with $ 271 million  in  2009 .
In most U.S. markets the show airs at 11:35 p.m. Eastern/Pacific time , but is recorded Monday through Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. , and Thursdays at 3:30 p.m and 6:00 p.m .
the   दूसरी  Thursday episode usually airs on  शुक्रवार  of that week .
In 2002 , Late  दिखाएँ   साथ  David Letterman was ranked No . 7  on  TV Guide 's 50  महानतम  TV Shows of  सब  Time  .
CBS  रै   a   अनुबंध   साथ  Worldwide Pants to continue the show through 2014 ; by then , Letterman will surpass  जॉनी  Carson as the longest tenured late-night talk show host .
the  Real Housewives of Orange County is an American reality  वृत्तचित्र  television program on Bravo ,  नियत  in Orange  काउंटी   ,   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
it  was  the  first  the  Real Housewives program in the series .
The series  is  a voyeuristic look into the wealthy lives of these housewives , as they shop  ,  get plastic surgery , gossip , fight and live lavishly  .
The financial crisis ,  the  beginning  of  which coincided almost exactly with the first season 's  ब्रॉडकास्ट   ,   रै  since trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles with  जॉब  losses , evictions ,  बंधक   मूलभूत  , foreclosures , and marital stress—all recorded in  प्रगतिशील  seasons of the show .
Cyberstalking is the use of the Internet  or  other electronic means to stalk or harass an individual , a group of  individuals   ,  or an organization .
It may include the making of false accusations or statements  of  fact ( as  in  defamation )  ,   निगरानी  ,  बनाना  threats , identity theft , damage to data  or  equipment ,  the  solicitation of  नाबालिग  for sex , or gathering information that may be  प्रयुक्त  to harass  .
The  परिभाषा   of  `` harassment '' must meet  the  criterion that a reasonable person ,  in  possession of the same information  ,  would regard it as sufficient to  कारण  another reasonable person  तकलीफ  .
Cyberstalking is  अलग  from spatial or offline stalking in that  it  occurs through  the  use of  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   संचार  technology such as the internet .
however   ,  it sometimes leads  to  it , or is accompanied  by  it .
Both are criminal offenses .
Cyberstalking shares important  विशेषताएँ   साथ  offline stalking .
Many stalkers  –   ऑनलाइन  or off –  हैं  motivated by  a   ख्वाहिश   to  control their victims .
A  cyberstalker   may  be an online stranger or  a  person whom the target knows .
a  cyberstalker  may  be anonymous and may solicit involvement  of  other people online who do not even know the target .
Cyberstalking is a criminal offense that comes into play under state anti-stalking  कानून  , slander  कानून  ,  और  harassment laws .
A  cyberstalking  conviction can result in a  restraining  order  ,  probation  ,  or even criminal penalties against  the  assailant , including jail .
A business letter is  प्रायः  used when  लिखने   इससे  one company to another ,  or  for correspondence  between  such organizations and their customers  ,  clients and  अन्य  external parties .
The overall  स्टाइल  of letter  होगा  depend on the  संबंध  between the parties concerned .
There  हैं  many reasons to  लिखें  a business letter  .
it   could  be to request  सीधा  information  or   कार्रवाई  from another party , to order supplies from a  प्रदायक  , to  पहचानो  a  गलती  that was  वचनबद्ध   ,   to  reply directly to a request  ,   to  apologize for a wrong or simply to convey goodwill .
Even today ,  the  business letter is still  बहुत  useful  क्युकी  it produces  a  permanent record  ,  is confidential ,  औपचारिक  and delivers persuasive , well-considered messages .
Tilapia ( ) is the common name for nearly a hundred species of  cichlid  fish from  the  tilapiine  cichlid   जनजाति  .
Tilapia are mainly  freshwater   मछली  , inhabiting  उथले  streams , ponds , rivers and  झीलों  , and less commonly found living in brackish  जल  .
Historically , they have  महरूम  of major importance  in  artisan fishing in Africa and the Levant ,  और  are of increasing importance  in  aquaculture .
tilapia  can  become  problematic invasive  प्रजाति  in new warm-water habitats , whether deliberately or accidentally  introduced  , but generally not in  शीतोष्ण  climates due to their inability to survive in cooler waters below  परिचय  .
Turner & Hooch  is  a  1989  comedy drama crime film starring Tom  हैंक्स   और   beasley  the Dog  as  the eponymous characters ,  टर्नर  and Hooch respectively .
The film also stars Mare  winningham  , Craig T. Nelson ,  और  Reginald VelJohnson .
it  was directed by Roger Spottiswoode ; the film was originally slated to be  निर्देशित  by Henry  winkler  ,  लकिन  he was terminated due to `` creative differences '' .
It  थी  co-written by Michael Blodgett from  परे  the Valley  of  the Dolls fame .
Although K-9 ( with  जेम्स  Belushi ) was released prior to this film ( exactly three  महीने  earlier )  ,  Turner & Hooch became  अधिक   लोकप्रिय  and seemingly overshadowed its greater success ,  भी  though K-9 had a  बहुत  similar plot .
A pilot for  a   टर्नर  & Hooch TV series was made and ran as  a  part of  the  Magical World of  डिज़्नी  .
इस   is  a list of Israeli airports , sorted by location .
Entrance to Ovda  विमानक्षेत्र
टर्मिनल  3  at  Ben  गुरियन
Plane  लैंडिंग  at Be'er Sheva ( Teyman )
Eilat Airport
Adolf Hitler (  ;  20  अप्रैल  1889 – 30 April 1945 ) was an Austrian  -born  German politician  और  the leader of  the  Nazi  पार्टी  ( ( NSDAP ) ; National Socialist German Workers Party  )  .
He was  चांसलर  of Germany from 1933 to 1945  और  dictator of Nazi Germany (  as  Führer und Reichskanzler  )   इससे  1934 to 1945 .
Hitler  थी  at the centre of Nazi  जर्मनी  , World War II  in  Europe  ,  and the Holocaust .
Hitler was a decorated  दिग्गज  of World  युद्ध   i  .
He joined  the  German Workers ' Party (  precursor  of  the  NSDAP  )  in 1919  ,  and became  नेता  of the NSDAP in 1921 .
In 1923 , he attempted a coup d'état in Munich , known as  the  Beer Hall Putsch .
The failed  तख्तापलट  resulted in Hitler 's imprisonment ,  दौरान  which  समय   he  wrote his memoir , Mein Kampf ( My Struggle  )  .
After  उसके  release in 1924 , Hitler  gained   लोकप्रिय  support  by  attacking the Treaty  of  Versailles and  promoting  Pan-Germanism , antisemitism , and anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda .
After  उसके  appointment as chancellor in 1933 , he  रूपांतरित  the Weimar Republic into the  तीसरा  Reich , a  single-party  dictatorship based  on  the totalitarian and  निरंकुश  ideology of Nazism .
Hitler 's aim was to  स्थापित   a  New Order of absolute Nazi German hegemony in continental Europe .
to   इस  end , his foreign  और  domestic policies had the aim of  seizing  Lebensraum ( `` living space '' ) for  the  Germanic people .
He directed the rearmament of Germany and the invasion of Poland  by  the  wehrmacht   in   सितंबर   1939  , resulting in  the  outbreak of  संसार  War II in Europe  .
अंतर्गत  Hitler 's rule , in 1941 German forces and their European allies occupied most of  यूरोपीय  and North Africa .
In 1943 , Germany had been forced onto the defensive  और  suffered a series of escalating defeats .
In  the  final days of the war  ,  during the  बैटल  of Berlin in 1945 , Hitler married his long-time  संगी   ,  Eva Braun .
On 30 April 1945 , less than two days  बाद  , the two committed suicide to avoid capture  by  the Red  फौज  , and their corpses were burned .
Hitler 's aggressive foreign policy is  माना   the  main cause of the  outbreak  of World War II in  यूरोपीय   .
His antisemitic  नीतियों   और  racially motivated ideology resulted  in  the deaths of at least 5.5 million Jews  ,  and  लाखो  of other people deemed racially inferior .
thumb
A domain name is an identification string  कि  defines a realm  of  administrative autonomy , authority , or  कंट्रोल   on  the Internet .
Domain  names  are formed by the rules and  प्रक्रियाओं  of  the  Domain Name System ( DNS )  .
Technically ,  कोई  name registered in the DNS is  a  domain name .
Domain names are used in various  नेटवर्किंग  contexts  और  application-specific  नामकरण  and addressing  उद्देश्य  .
In general , a domain name represents  an  Internet Protocol  (   ip  ) resource ,  ऐसे  as  a  personal computer used to access the  अंतरजाल  , a server computer hosting  a  web site , or the web site itself  or  any other service communicated  via  the Internet .
Domain names are organized  in  subordinate levels  (  subdomains )  of  the DNS  रूट  domain , which is nameless .
The first-level set  of  domain names are the top-level domains ( TLDs ) , including  the  generic top-level  डोमेन   (   gtlds  )  ,  such as the prominent domains com ,  सूचना   ,  net and org , and the country code top-level domains  (  ccTLDs ) .
Below these  top-level  domains in  the  DNS hierarchy are the second-level and third-level domain names that are typically open for reservation by end-users who wish  to  connect local area  संजाल  to the  अंतरजाल  , create other publicly accessible Internet  संसाधन   or  run web sites .
The registration  of   ये   डोमेन  names is usually administered  by  domain name registrars who sell their services to the public .
A fully qualified  डोमेन   नाम  (  fqdn  ) is a  डोमेन  name that is completely specified in the hierarchy  of  the  डीएनएस  , having no omitted parts .
Domain names are usually written in lowercase ,  हालांकि  labels in  the  Domain  नाम  System are  case-insensitive  .
Nitrate is a polyatomic ion with the  आणविक   सूत्र  NO3− and a molecular mass of  62.0049   g/mol  . Nitrates  भी  describe the  सशुल्क  functional  समूह  RONO2 .
These nitrate esters are  a  specialized class of explosives  .
A wheat  कटाई  in Idaho
इस   फ़ोटो   इससे  a 1921 encyclopedia shows a  ट्रैक्टर  ploughing  a  crop field .
Agriculture  is  a major industry in  the  United States and  the  country  is  a  जाल  exporter of food .
As of the last census of agriculture in 2007 , there were 2.2 million farms , covering an area of , an average of per  फार्म  .
Although agricultural activity occurs  in  most states , it is particularly concentrated  in  the  विशाल  expanse of flat ,  arable  land  ज्ञात  as the Great Plains , which encompasses the central region of  the  nation .
The Mpemba effect  ,   नामित   बाद  Tanzanian student  erasto  Mpemba , is the assertion that warmer water  can  freeze  तेज़  than colder water .
Although there is anecdotal support for the effect , there is no agreement on exactly  कया   the  effect is and under  कया  circumstances it occurs  .
There have been reports of similar phenomena since  प्राचीन  times , although  साथ  insufficient detail for the claims to be replicated .
The phenomenon seems  contrary  to thermodynamics , but a number of possible explanations for  the  effect have been proposed .
further  investigations will need  to  decide  on  a precise definition of ``  जमने  '' and control a vast number of starting parameters in order  to  confirm or explain the effect .
The  siamese  ( ,  )  is  एक  of the  पहला   distinctly  recognized breeds of  प्राच्य  cat  .
The breed originated in Thailand ( formerly known as Siam  )   ,   जहाँ  they are one of several native breeds  और  are called Wichian Mat ( วิเชียรมาศ , a name meaning `` moon diamond ''  )  .
In the 20th century the Siamese  बिल्ली  became  एक  of the most  लोकप्रिय  breeds in Europe and  उत्तर  America .
Quality Food Centers ( QFC ) is a supermarket chain based in Bellevue ,  वॉशिंगटन  , with 64 stores in the Puget  ध्वनि  region  of   वॉशिंगटन  state and in the Portland , Oregon metropolitan area .
in  economics , the money supply  or  money stock  ,  is the total amount of  मौद्रिक  assets  उपलब्धियाँ   in   an  economy  at  a specific time .
वहीँ   हैं  several ways  to  define `` money , '' but  मानक  measures usually include currency  in  circulation and  माँग   जमा  ( depositors  '   easily  accessed  एसेट  on  the  books of financial institutions ) .
Money supply data  हैं  recorded and  प्रकाशित  , usually by the  सरकारी  or the central  बैंको  of the country .
पब्लिक  and private sector analysts have  long  monitored changes in  धन  supply because of its  प्रभाव   on  the price level  ,  inflation , the exchange rate and  the  business cycle .
कि   संबंध  between money  और  prices is historically associated  साथ   the  quantity theory of money  .
There is strong  अनुभवजन्य  evidence of a direct relation between money-supply growth and long-term price inflation , at least for rapid increases  in  the amount of  धन  in  the  economy .
That is ,  a  country such as Zimbabwe  जिससे  saw rapid increases in its money supply also saw rapid  increases  in prices ( hyperinflation ) .
This  is  one reason for the reliance on  मौद्रिक  policy as a means of controlling  महंगाई  .
The nature of this  causal  chain  is  the subject of contention .
Some heterodox economists argue that the money supply is  endogenous  (  संकल्पित  by the workings of the economy  ,  not by the central bank ) and that the sources of  महंगाई  must be found in the distributional structure  of  the  अर्थव्यवस्था  .
In addition ,  those  economists seeing the  सेंट्रल  bank 's  कंट्रोल  over the money  सप्लाई  as feeble say that there are  दो  weak links between the growth of the money supply  और  the inflation  रेट   .
First , in the aftermath of a  मंदी  ,  जब  many resources are underutilized ,  an  increase in the money supply  can  cause  a  sustained increase in real production instead of inflation .
Second , if the velocity of money , i.e.  ,  the  अनुपात   between  nominal GDP and money supply  ,  changes , an  बढ़ाएँ   in  the money supply could have either no effect , an exaggerated effect ,  or  an unpredictable  प्रभाव  on the growth of nominal GDP  .
Logo for IMAX .
Warren  थिएटर  IMAX cinema , Wichita , Kansas , USA ,  601  seats .
A  तुलना  between 35 mm  और  15/70 mm negative areas .
IMAX ( an abbreviation for Image  अधिकतम   )  is a motion picture film format  और   a   नियत  of cinema projection standards created by the Canadian company  imax  Corporation .
IMAX has  the   क्षमता  to record  और  display images of far greater  आकार  and resolution than conventional film systems .
Since 2002 , some feature films have been converted  (   or  upgraded  )  into IMAX  स्वरूप  for  प्रदर्शक  in IMAX theatres and some have also been partially shot in IMAX  .
IMAX  is  the most widely used  प्रणाली   लिये   special-venue  film presentations  .
, there are 697 IMAX theatres in  52  countries .
आज  's Special is a Canadian children 's television  दिखाएँ  produced by Clive VanderBurgh at TVOntario from  1981  to 1987 .
it   भी  ran  on  Nickelodeon and the Faith and  मान   channel/odyssey  ( now the  hallmark  Channel ) as well  as  many  pbs  stations throughout the United  राज्य  .
It was set in a  विभाग  store ,  आधारित  on the flagship location  of  the now defunct Simpson 's in  टोरंटो  .
Many sequences for  it  were shot at the Queen Street West and Yonge Street store after hours  .
संविधानवाद  , in  इसके   सबसे   सामान्य  meaning , is `` a complex of ideas , attitudes , and  पैटर्न  of  बर्ताव   elaborating  the principle that the authority of government  गर्भाशयी  from and is  सीमित  by a body of fundamental law '' .
A political organization is constitutional to the extent that it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of  शक्ति   कंट्रोल  for the protection of  the  interests  और  liberties  of  the citizenry  ,  including those that may be in the minority `` .
As described by political scientist and constitutional scholar David Fellman  :
An  ice-cream  headache , also known as brain freeze  ,   cold-stimulus  headache , or  इसके  given  वैज्ञानिक  name sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( meaning `` nerve  पीड़ा  of the sphenopalatine  गंडिका  `` ) , is a form  of  brief cranial pain or headache commonly associated with consumption ( particularly quick  खपत  )  of  cold beverages  or  foods such  as  ice cream and ice pops  .
It is caused  by  having something cold touch the roof of the mouth ( palate ) ,  और  is believed  to  result from  a   तंत्रिका  response causing rapid constriction and  सूजन  of blood  बरतन   or   a  `` referring `` of pain from the roof of the mouth to the  सिर  .
The rate of  सेवन  for cold foods  रै   महरूम  studied as a contributing factor .
There are  लोगों  who can  नहीं  experience `` brain freeze '' or similar symptoms .
The term ice-cream headache has  महरूम  in  उपयोग  since at least 31 January 1937 , contained in a journal entry by Rebecca  timbres  published  in  the 1939 book We did n't  पूछो   यूटोपिया  : a Quaker family in Soviet Russia .
The first published use of  the  term brain freeze , as  it  pertains to cold-induced headaches , was on 27  may  1991 .
`` Auld Lang Syne  ''  (  :  note `` s  ''  rather than ``  z   ''  ) is a Scots poem written by Robert Burns in 1788  और  set to the tune of  a  traditional  लोक  song ( Roud # 6294 ) .
It is well known in many  देशों  ,  विशेषकर  in the English-speaking world ; its traditional use being to  celebrate  the start of the New Year  at  the stroke of midnight .
By extension  ,  it  is  also sung at funerals ,  graduations  and as a farewell or ending to other occasions  .
The international  लड़के  Scout youth  गति  , in  अनेक   देशों  , uses it as a close to jamborees and other functions .
The song  's   स्कॉट्स  title may be translated into  अंग्रेज़ी  literally as ``  बूढ़ा  long since '' , or more idiomatically , `` long long ago '' ,  ``   दिनों  gone by '' or  ``   बूढ़ा  times  ''  .
Consequently `` For auld lang syne '' , as it appears in the first line of the chorus , might be loosely translated as  ``   लिये  ( the sake of ) old times ''  .
The phrase `` Auld Lang Syne '' is also used in  समान  poems by Robert Ayton ( 1570–1638 ) , Allan  ramsay   (  1686–1757 )  ,  and  जेम्स  Watson ( 1711 ) as well as older folk songs predating  burns  .
Matthew Fitt  उपयोग  the phrase `` In the  दिनों  of auld lang syne '' as the equivalent of `` Once upon a time ...
`` in his retelling of fairy tales in the Scots language .
Ben  schulz  , player of  leeroy  Jenkins at BlizzCon 2007
Leeroy Jenkins , sometimes  misspelled   लेरॉय  Jenkins and often elongated with numerous  अतिरिक्त  letters , is an Internet meme named  लिये  a player character created by  बेन  Schulz in Blizzard Entertainment  's  MMORPG ,  संसार  of  warcraft  .
The character became  लोकप्रिय  due  to  a video of the game  कि  circulated around the  अंतरजाल  .
The phenomenon has since spread beyond the boundaries of the  गेमिंग  community into other online and mainstream  मीडिया  .
Oscar Grant was fatally shot by BART police officer Johannes Mehserle in Oakland ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , United States , in the early  morning  hours  of  New Year 's Day 2009 .
Responding to reports of a fight on a crowded  खाड़ी  Area Rapid Transit train returning from  सैन   फ्रांसिस्को   ,  BART Police officers detained Oscar  ग्रान्ट  and several other passengers on the platform at the Fruitvale  बार्ट  Station .
Officer Johannes Mehserle  और   another  officer  यहूद  restraining Grant , who was prostrate and allegedly resisting  गिरफ़्तार  .
Officer Mehserle stood and ,  according  to witnesses , said  :   ``  Get back  ,  I 'm gon na tase him . ''
Then Mehserle drew his gun  और   शॉट  Grant once in the back ; Mehserle appeared stunned , put his  हैंड्स  to his head and exclaimed , `` Oh ,  my  God !  ''
दौरान  his court testimony ,  mehserle  said that Grant  तब  exclaimed ,  ``  You shot me ! ''
Grant turned out to be unarmed ; he was pronounced dead  the  next morning  at  Highland Hospital in Oakland  .
the  events were captured  on  multiple digital video and cell phone cameras  .
the   फुटेज  was disseminated to media outlets and  to  various websites , where it  थी  watched millions of times .
The following days saw both peaceful and  हिंसक  protests .
The shooting has  महरूम  variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter and a summary execution .
on  January 13 , Alameda  काउंटी  prosecutors  चार्ज   mehserle  with murder  लिये  the shooting .
He resigned  उसके   स्थिति  and  pleaded  not  अपराधी  .
The trial began  on   जून  10 , 2010 .
Michael  rains  ,  mehserle  's criminal defense attorney , argued  कि  Mehserle mistakenly  शॉट  Grant with his pistol ,  intending  to use  उसके  Taser when he saw Grant reaching for his waistband .
pretrial  filings  argue  that his client did not commit first-degree murder and  पूछा  a Los  एंजिल्स  judge to instruct the  जूरी  to limit its deliberations to  either  second-degree  हत्या  or  acquittal  .
Oakland civil rights  attorney  John Burris  दायर  a $ 25 million wrongful death claim against BART on behalf of  ग्रान्ट  's family .
On  जुलाई  8 , 2010 , the jury returned its  verdict  :  mehserle  was found guilty of involuntary  manslaughter  and not  अपराधी  of second-degree murder and voluntary manslaughter .
आरंभिक  protests against the ruling were peacefully  व्यवस्थित   ;   लूटने  , arson ,  विनाश   of  property  ,  and small  दंगे  broke out  बाद   अंधेरा   .
nearly  80  लोगों  were eventually arrested .
On  शुक्रवार   ,  July 9 , 2010 , the U.S. Justice Department opened a civil  अधिकारों  case against Mehserle ; the federal government can prosecute him  independently  for  the  same act under  the   पृथक  sovereigns exception to  दोगुना  jeopardy .
The Department of  इंसाफ  will be working with the U.S. Attorney 's office in  सैन   फ्रांसिस्को   और  the FBI .
On November 5 , 2010 , Mehserle  थी  sentenced to  दो  years  ,  minus time served .
He served his time in the Los Angeles County  कारावास  ,  occupying   a  private cell away  इससे  other prisoners .
He  थी  released  on   जून  13  ,  2011 and is  अभी  on parole .
Major representatives of the Harlem Renaissance .
The Harlem Renaissance was a cultural movement that  spanned   the  1920s .
At the time , it was known as  the  ``  नई   नीग्रो  Movement ''  ,  named  बाद   the   1925  anthology by Alain Locke .
Though  it   थी  centered in the Harlem neighborhood of  नई  York City  ,   अनेक  French-speaking black writers from African and Caribbean colonies who lived in  पेरिस   यहूद   भी  influenced by the Harlem Renaissance .
the  Harlem Renaissance is unofficially recognized  to   have   spanned  from about 1919  जबतक  the early  or  mid-1930s .
Many of  इसके  ideas lived on much longer .
The zenith of  इस  `` flowering of Negro literature '' ,  as  James Weldon Johnson preferred  to  call the Harlem  पुनर्जागरण  , was placed between 1924 ( the year that Opportunity : A Journal of Negro Life hosted a party for black writers where many white publishers  यहूद  in attendance ) and 1929  (  the year of the  भण्डार  market  क्रैश  and the  शुरूआत  of  the  Great Depression  )  .
African States between 500 BCE and 1500 CE
obelisk  at temple of  लक्सर  , Egypt  .
c. 1200 BCE .
अफ़्रीकी  knight  of  Baguirmi in full padded  armour   सूट  .
The history of Africa begins  साथ  the prehistory of Africa and  the  emergence of Homo sapiens in East Africa  ,  continuing into the present as a patchwork of diverse and  नीतियां  developing nation states .
Some early  प्रमाण  of  कृषि  in Africa dates from 16,000 BCE ,  और  metallurgy from about 4000 BCE .
The recorded history of early civilization arose in Egypt , and later in Nubia , the Maghreb and the Horn of Africa  .
During the  मध्य  Ages , Islam spread  through   the  regions .
Crossing the Maghreb  और   the  Sahel , a  प्रमुख  center of Muslim culture was Timbuktu  .
Some notable pre-colonial states and  समाजों   in  Africa include the Nok culture , Mali Empire , Ashanti Empire ,  किंगडम   of  Mapungubwe , Kingdom of Sine , Kingdom of  saloum  , Kingdom of Baol , Kingdom of Zimbabwe , Kingdom of Kongo , Ancient Carthage , Numidia , Mauretania ,  the  Aksumite Empire , the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate .
From the late 15th century , Europeans and Arabs took slaves  इससे  West ,  सेंट्रल  and Southeast Africa overseas  in  the African slave trade .
European colonization  of  Africa developed rapidly in the  हाथापाई  for Africa of the late 19th  और  early  20th  centuries  .
Following  struggles  for independence in  अनेक  parts of the continent , as well as a weakened Europe after the Second World War ; decolonization  took  place .
Africa 's  इतिहास  has been challenging for researchers in the field of African studies  क्युकी  of the scarcity of  लिखा  sources in  विशाल  parts of sub-Saharan Africa .
Scholarly  तकनीकों  such as the  रिकॉर्डिंग   of  oral history ,  ऐतिहासिक  linguistics , archaeology and genetics  have   महरूम   निर्णायक  .
curry  Foley  थी  the first player in Major League Baseball history to hit for the cycle .
In baseball , hitting for the cycle is the accomplishment of one  बैटर  hitting a single , a double  ,   a  triple , and a home  चलाएं  in the same game .
collecting   the   हिट्स  in that order is known  as  a `` natural cycle  ''  .
चक्र  are uncommon in Major League Baseball ( MLB  )   ,  and have occurred 294 times  चूंकि  the first  by  Curry Foley in 1882 .
The  साईकिल  is roughly as common as a  no-hitter   (  279 occurrences  in  MLB history ) ;  it  has  महरूम  called  ``  one of the rarest '' and `` most difficult feats '' in baseball .
Based on  2009  offensive levels , the  संभाव्यता  of an average MLB player hitting for a cycle against an average team in a game is approximately 0.00590 %  ;   इस   corresponds  to about 2.5 cycles in a 162-game  ऋतु   साथ  30 teams  .
In other baseball leagues , the cycle is achieved  कम   अक्सर  .
Through  सितंबर  4  ,  2008 ,  62  players  in   निप्पन  Professional Baseball ( NPB ) , the top-level baseball organization in Japan , have hit for the cycle  ,  the most recent being Michihiro Ogasawara  .
Two  खिलाड़ी   have   hit  for the  साईकिल  on the same  दिन  once in NPB history  ;  this has  occurred  twice in MLB history  .
एक  NPB player  रै  also hit for the  साईकिल   in  an  npb  All-Star  खेल  .
No player has ever  hit  for the cycle in the MLB All-Star Game or the postseason .
The main  स्लेव   रूट  in medieval  अफ़्रीकी  .
This article discusses  प्रणालियों  ,  इतिहास   ,  and  प्रभाव  of slavery  भीतर  Africa .
See Arab slave trade , Atlantic slave  व्यापार  ,  maafa  , and Slavery in contemporary  अफ़्रीकी   लिये  other discussions .
``  स्लेव  transport in Africa '' .
europeans  usually did not  डालें  the interior regions .
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the continent for many centuries  ,  and continues  in  the current day .
Systems of servitude and slavery  यहूद  common in many parts of the continent , as they were in much of  the  ancient world .
in  most African societies where slavery was prevalent , the enslaved people  यहूद  largely treated as indentured servants and not  treated  as  chattel  slaves .
When  the  Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began  ,  many of the local slave systems changed  और   began  supplying  captives  for slave markets outside of  अफ़्रीकी  .
Slavery in historical  अफ़्रीकी  was  practiced  in many different forms  और  some of these do not clearly fit  the  definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world .
Debt slavery , enslavement of war captives ,  सैन्य   गुलामी  , and criminal slavery were all practiced  in  various parts of Africa .
Although  वहीँ  had been  कुछ  trans-Saharan trade  इससे  the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions , slavery was a small part  of  the economic life of many societies in Africa until  the   परिचय   of  transcontinental slave trades (  अरब  and  अटलांटिक  )  .
Slave practices were again transformed  साथ   यूरोपीय   colonization  of Africa  और  the formal abolition of  गुलामी  in  the  early 1900s .
Windows Task Manager is  a  task  मैनेजर  or  प्रणाली  monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems  कि  provides limited information about computer performance and running  अनुप्रयोग  , processes  और  CPU usage ,  कमिट  charge and  मेमोरी  information , network  कार्यकलाप  and  आंकडे  , logged-in users ,  और   प्रणाली   सेवाएं  ( and  as  often is the case with software  टूल्स   provided  by  microsoft   लिये  Windows , 3rd party software is  उपलब्धियाँ  which fills the requirements more thoroughly , e.g , ``  प्रक्रम  Explorer '' , `` Extended Task Manager '' , `` Anvir Task Manager  ''   ,   ``   प्रक्रम  Hacker ''  ,  and `` System Explorer ''  )  .
the  Task Manager can also be used to  नियत   प्रक्रम  priorities ,  प्रोसेसर  affinity  ,  forcibly terminate processes ,  और  shut down ,  restart  , hibernate or log off from Windows .
Windows Task Manager was introduced with Windows NT 4.0 .
Previous  संस्करण  of Windows NT included the Task List application , which had far fewer features .
The  कार्य  list was capable of listing currently running processes and killing them  ,   or  creating a new  प्रक्रम  .
In Windows  xp  only ,  a  Shutdown menu is also  उपस्थित  that  allows   अभिगम   to  Standby , Hibernate  ,  Turn off  ,   restart  ,  log  Off and Switch  उपयोक्ता  .
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows  (  Microsoft Windows 3.x  ,   खिड़कियाँ  95 , Windows 98 )  था   a  program known as tasks to  प्रदर्शक  the  कार्यक्रम  currently running  .
This file was executed by running the taskman.exe file from the  c  : \Windows  निर्देशिका  .
The Troop is an American-Canadian  live-action   ,  single camera comedy -adventure television  श्रेणी   परिचय  a trio of teenagers who fight and capture monsters and other supernatural phenomena that  invade  the fictional town  of  Lakewood .
Created and executive produced by Max  burnett  , Greg Coolidge and Chris  मॉर्गन  ,  the  series premiered  on  Nickelodeon on September 18 ,  2009  .
The second  ऋतु  premiered  on  June 25 , 2011 and Nickelodeon  रद्द  the series  मिडवे  through it  's   दूसरी   ऋतु  .
The remaining episodes of season 2  यहूद  aired on Nicktoons except the last  3..
Sparsely populated in relation  to  its area ,  the  Democratic Republic of the Congo  (  DRC ) is home to a vast potential  of  natural resources and  खनिज  wealth , its untapped  जमा  of raw minerals are estimated  to  be worth in excess  of  US $ 24 trillion , yet the economy of  the   drc  has declined drastically since the mid-1980s .
At the time of  इसके  independence in 1960 ,  drc  was the second  सबसे  industrialized country in Africa  बाद  South Africa ; it boasted  a  thriving mining  सेक्टर   और  its agriculture sector was relatively  उत्पादक  .
If the viewer stares  at   इस   चित्र  for 20–60 seconds  और   stares   at  a white object  ,  a negative afterimage will  appear  ( in this case ,  it  will be cyan on  magenta  ) .
This can also be achieved by the viewer closing  his/her  eyes and tilting  उनके   सिर  up  .
An  afterimage   or  ghost image or image burn-in is  an  optical illusion that refers to an image continuing to appear in  एक  's vision after the exposure to the original image  रै  ceased .
One of  the  most  आम  afterimages  is  the  उज्जवल  glow  कि  seems  to  float before  एक  's  आँखें  after looking into a light source for  a  few seconds .
Closing  the  eye can  सहायता  achieve  a  better  भाव  of the color in its  अपना  aspect .
Afterimages come in two forms , negative ( inverted )  और  positive (  retaining  original color ) .
The process behind  धनात्मक  afterimages is unknown ,  हालांकि  thought to be related  to  neural  अनुकूलन   .
On the other hand , negative afterimages  हैं  a retinal phenomenon and are well  समझा  .
Lost is an American serial  नाटक  television series that  premiered  on September 22 , 2004 on  the  American Broadcasting Company  (  ABC )  .
The series was created by J. J. Abrams and Damon Lindelof , based upon an original  पायलट  script titled  nowhere  written by Jeffrey Lieber .
Six seasons of the  दिखाएँ  aired  ,  in  जोड   to  numerous  काटें  shows to recap previous episodes .
ABC announced that Lost would  समाप्त   बाद  six seasons , having produced a total of 121 episodes .
The series follows  the  past , present ,  और   भविष्य  experience ( s ) of the survivors of  a  plane crash on a passenger jet ,  oceanic  Flight 815 , flying  इससे  Sydney to Los Angeles after  it   क्रैश  on a  तीव्र   द्वीप  in the South Pacific  .
The series also  शामिल  stories of the  जीवनदान  of  लोगों   already  living  on  the island  —  they include the `` Others  ``  ,  जो   initially  antagonize the survivors , as well as a group of people  जो  arrive on the  freighter  Kahana .
Each episode  typically  features action on  the   द्वीप  as well as a secondary  कथानक  from  another   पाइंट  in a character 's life  .
Season 6 features  a  detailing of the lives of the survivors in a different reality ,  as  if the flight had never crashed .
in  the following list  ,   the  term `` featured character ( s )  ''  refers  to  the character or characters who are featured in the secondary storyline  of  each episode .
``  No .
in series '' refers to the  एपीसोड   's  number in the  overall  series ,  whereas   ``  No .
in season '' refers to the episode  's   क्रमांक  in each  particular  season .
`` U.S.  दर्शक   (  million ) '' refers to the  क्रमांक   of  Americans in millions who watched the episode live .
a  total of 121 episodes of Lost  यहूद  produced  ,   the  last of which aired  on   may  23 , 2010 .
All seasons  हैं  available on DVD in Regions 1–4 and  on  Blu-ray  in  Regions A  और  B .
Flat feet (  भी  called pes  planus   or  fallen arches ) is a formal reference to a medical  कंडीशन  in which the arch of the foot collapses ,  साथ  the  संपूर्ण  sole of the foot coming into complete or near-complete contact with the ground .
in  some individuals  (  an estimated 20–30 % of the general population  )  the arch simply  never  develops in one foot (  unilaterally  ) or both feet (  bilaterally  ) .
Three studies  (  see citations  नीचे  in  सैन्य  section ) of military recruits have shown no evidence of later increased injury , or foot  समस्याएं  , due to flat feet , in a population of people who reach military service  आयु  without prior foot problems .
However , these studies can not be  प्रयुक्त  to judge possible future damage from this  कंडीशन  when diagnosed at  younger  ages  .
वे  also can not be applied to persons whose flat  फीट  are  संबद्ध  with foot symptoms , or certain symptoms in other parts of the body  (  such as the leg or back )  संभवतः  referable to the  पैर   .
Generation  x  ,  commonly  abbreviated to Gen  x  ,  is  the generation born after the Western post-World War II baby  बूम  .
Demographers , historians and commentators use beginning birth dates from the early 1960s to the early 1980s .
The  पद  was popularized by Douglas Coupland 's 1991  अनोखा  Generation X  :  Tales  लिये   an  Accelerated Culture .
Before that , it had been used for various  subcultures  or countercultures  बाद   the  1950s .
Pressure ulcers , also known as decubitus ulcers or  bedsores  , are  स्थानीयकृत  injuries to  the   स्किन  and/or underlying tissue usually over a bony  prominence   ,  as a result  of  pressure , or pressure  in  combination with shear  and/or  friction .
सबसे  commonly this will be the sacrum , coccyx , heels  or  the hips , but other sites such as the elbows , knees , ankles or the back of the cranium can be affected .
The cause of pressure ulcers is pressure applied to soft tissue so that blood flow to the soft tissue is  completely  or partially  obstructed  .
shear  is also a cause ; shear pulls on blood vessels that feed  the  skin .
Pressure ulcers most commonly  develop  in persons  जो  are  नहीं  moving about or are confined  to  wheelchairs .
It  is  widely believed that other factors can influence  the  tolerance of skin  लिये  pressure and shear thereby increasing  the  risk of pressure ulcer development .
These factors are protein-calorie  कुपोषण   ,  microclimate (  स्किन  wetness caused by  sweating  or incontinence ) , diseases  कि  reduce blood flow to the skin , such  as  arteriosclerosis  or  diseases that reduce the feeling in the skin , such as paralysis or neuropathy .
The healing  of  pressure ulcers may  be  slowed by the age of the person ,  चिकित्सा  conditions ( such as arteriosclerosis  ,  diabetes or infection  )  , smoking  or   medications  such as  antiinflammatory  drugs  .
Although  प्रायः  prevented and treatable if  मिला  early , pressure ulcers  can  be very difficult to prevent in critically ill patients , frail elders ,  व्हीलचेयर  users ( especially where spinal  चोट   is  involved  )   और  terminally ill  मरीजों   .
प्राथमिक  prevention is to redistribute  दबाव  by  turning   the  patient regularly .
The benefit  of  turning to avoid further sores is well documented since at least the 19th century  .
In addition  to   turning  and re-positioning  the   रोगी  in bed or wheelchair , eating a balanced  आहार  with adequate protein and keeping the skin free from exposure to urine and stool is  बहुत  important .
The prevalence of pressure ulcers in hospital settings is high  ,   लकिन  improvements  हैं  being made .
According to  the  2010  ipup  ( International  दबाव  Ulcer Prevalence Survey ) conducted in Canada  ,  there was a significant  घटी  in  the  overall facility-acquired prevalence  of   दबाव  ulcers from 2009-2010 .
Ulcers  यहूद   सबसे  commonly  पहचाना   at  the sacral/coccyx ulcer location ; however ,  एड़ी  ulcers  यहूद  the most common facility-acquired  स्थान  in the survey .
overboard   is  a 1987  अमरीकी  romantic comedy film starring Goldie Hawn and Kurt  रसेल  .
It was directed by Garry Marshall , produced by Roddy McDowell , and loosely inspired by the 1974  इतालवी   फिल्मी  Swept  दूर  .
in  turn , Overboard was adapted into the  2006  South Korean television  श्रेणी  ,  युगल  or Trouble .
Green Bay is a city in and the county seat  of  Brown County in the U.S. state  of   विस्कॉन्सिन  , located at the head  of  Green Bay , a sub-basin of Lake Michigan , at the mouth of the Fox River .
it  has an  उन्नयन  of above sea level and  is  located north of  मिल्वौकी  .
The population was 104,057  at  the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
it  is  the  third-largest  नगर  in  the   राज्य   of  Wisconsin  ,  after  मिल्वौकी  and Madison .
It is  भी  the  third-largest  city on  the   वेस्ट  shore  of  Lake Michigan  ,  after  शिकागो  and Milwaukee .
Green Bay is  घर  to the  ग्रीन  Bay Packers of the National Football League , making it by  दूर  the smallest metropolitan area in  the  USA to host a major professional sports  मताधिकार  .
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area ,  जिससे  covers Brown , Kewaunee , and  oconto  Counties and had a  संयुक्त  population of 282,599  at  the 2000  जनसांख्यिकी   .
Green Bay is an industrial city  साथ  several meatpacking and paper plants ,  और  a  बंदरगाहों  on  ग्रीन  Bay , an arm  of  Lake Michigan  कि   स्थानीय  call the Bay of Green Bay , to avoid conflating it with the eponymous  नगर  .
It  is   घर   to  the  नेशनल  Railroad Museum ;  the  Neville Public Museum , with  प्रदर्शनियों  of art , history  ,  and science  ;   और  the University  of  Wisconsin–Green Bay .
luteinizing   हार्मोन  ( LH ,  भी  known as  lutropin  and  sometimes   lutrophin  ) is a hormone produced by gonadotroph cells in the anterior pituitary gland .
In  महिलाओं  , an acute rise of LH (  ``  LH surge '' ) triggers ovulation and development of the corpus  luteum  .
In males , where LH had  भी   महरूम  called interstitial cell-stimulating hormone  (   icsh   )  , it stimulates Leydig cell production of testosterone .
It acts synergistically with FSH  .
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez (  अप्रैल  16 , 1971 – March  31  , 1995  )   ,  known simply as Selena  ,  was an American singer-songwriter .
She was named the  ``   शीर्ष  Latin artist of the '90s ''  और  `` Best selling Latin artist of  the   दशक  '' by Billboard  लिये  her fourteen top-ten singles  in  the Top Latin Songs  चार्ट   ,  including seven number-one hits  .
सेलिना  had the most successful singles of 1994 and 1995 ,  ``  Amor Prohibido ``  और  `` No Me  queda  Más `` .
She was  पुकारा   ``  The Queen of Tejano music  ``  and the Mexican equivalent of  मैडोना  .
Selena released her first album  ,  Selena y Los Dinos , at the age of twelve  .
She won Female Vocalist of the  साल  at the  1987  Tejano  म्यूज़िक  Awards and  उतरा  a recording contract with EMI a few years later .
Her fame grew throughout  the  early 1990s , especially in Spanish-speaking countries  ,   और  she had begun  रिकॉर्डिंग  in English as well .
Selena  थी   murdered  at the age of  23  on March 31 , 1995 by Yolanda Saldívar , the former president of her  प्रशंसक   क्लबों   .
On  अप्रैल   12  , 1995 ,  दो  weeks after her death , George W. Bush , governor of  टेक्सास  at the time ,  घोषित  her birthday `` Selena Day '' in Texas .
warner  Bros. produced Selena , a film  आधारित  on her  जीवन  starring Jennifer Lopez , in 1997  .
सेलिना  's life  थी  also  the  basis of the musical  सेलिना  Forever  अभिनीत  Veronica Vazquez as Selena .
In  जून  2006  सेलिना  was  commemorated  with a life-sized bronze  प्रतिमा  ( Mirador de la Flor in Corpus Christi  ,   टेक्सास  ) and a Selena museum opened there  .
She has sold over 60 million albums worldwide , making her one of the best-selling artists of all time  .
She is also the  तभी  female  कलाकार  to  have  five albums in U.S  .  Billboard 200 at the same time  .
German Stahlhelm from World War II
Insignia  of  the Bolivian Army Colorados regiment , showing a Stahlhelm and two crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm ( plural , Stahlhelme ) is German for `` steel helmet '' .
The Imperial German Army  began   to   बदलें  the traditional boiled-leather Pickelhaube  (  spiked  कॉम्बैट   हेल्मेट  ) with the  stahlhelm  during World War I in 1916 .
The  पद  Stahlhelm refers  दोनो  to a generic steel helmet , and more specifically to  the  distinctive ( and  iconic  ) German design .
The Stahlhelm  ,  with its distinctive `` coal scuttle  ``  shape  ,  was  an   तुरन्त  recognizable icon  लिये  military imagery and became a common element  of  military propaganda on both sides  ,   बस  like  the  Pickelhaube before it .
Its name was also used by  the  Stahlhelm  ,  a paramilitary nationalist organization established at the  समाप्त  of 1918 .
Glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
Bioluminescence , the production and emission of light by a living organism
Chemiluminescence , is the emission of light ( luminescence ) without  उत्सर्जन  of heat
Phosphorescence , a specific  प्रकार  of photoluminescence related to fluorescence
Radioluminescence , production of  संदीप्ति  in a material  by  the  बमबारी   of  ionizing radiation
glow  in  the  Dark Tour , a 2008  कॉन्सर्ट  tour by Kanye West
Frankfurt Airport serves as a  हब  city for Lufthansa and  receives  flights  इससे  Star Alliance  वाहक  .
एयरलाइन  hubs are airports ranked as large , medium , small , and non-hubs as one  of  the FAA airport categories which are re-evaluated every year based on number  of  commercial passengers .
The  अधिक  common but  अनौपचारिक  use  लिये   the  phrase airline hub is  an   विमानक्षेत्र   कि   an   एयरलाइन  uses as a transfer point to  मिलेंगी   यात्री  to their intended destination  .
It is part of  a  hub and spoke model  ,   जहाँ  travelers  चलती  between airports not served by direct flights  बदलें  planes en route to their destinations .
इस  is as opposed to the Point to Point model .
Many  hubs  of the airlines  हैं  also situated at  एयरपोर्ट  in the cities of the respective head offices  .
कुछ  airlines may use only  a  single hub , while other airlines use multiple hubs .
Hubs are used for both passenger flights  as   खूब  as cargo flights .
Many airlines  भी  use focus cities , which function much the same  as  hubs  .
Airlines may  भी  use secondary hubs , a non-technical term for large  फ़ोकस  cities  .
A  हब   in  the middle of a route is more effective than at either end as connecting  ट्रैफ़िक   अधिक  easily fills the plane  -  passengers prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) route over a two-stop ( three-leg )  रूट  .
Hollow Lacedaemon .
Site of the Menelaion , the shrine to Helen  और  Menelaus  constructed  anciently  in   the   कांस्य  Age city that stood on the hill  of  Therapne on the left bank of the Eurotas River overlooking the future site of Dorian Sparta .
Across the valley the successive  ridges  of Mount Taygetus are in evidence .
Sparta  (  Doric Greek : ; Attic Greek : ) , or Lacedaemon , was  a  prominent city-state in ancient Greece , situated on the banks of  the  Eurotas River in Laconia , in south-eastern  पेलोपोनीज़   .
it   उभरा  as a political entity  around  the 10th century BC , when the  आक्रमणकारी  Dorians subjugated the local  ,  non-Dorian population  .
around  650 BC , it  रोज़  to become the dominant military land-power in  प्राचीन  Greece .
Given its military pre-eminence , Sparta was recognized as the overall  नेता  of  the  combined Greek forces during the Greco-Persian Wars .
between  431 and 404  bc  , Sparta  थी  the principal enemy  of  Athens  दौरान  the  peloponnesian  War  ,  from  जिससे  it emerged victorious , though at great  लागत  .
Sparta 's defeat by Thebes in the Battle of Leuctra in 371 BC ended  स्पार्टा  's prominent  भूमिका  in  यूनानियों  .
However , it  कायम  its political independence until  the  Roman conquest of  यूनानियों  in 146 BC .
It then underwent a long period of decline ,  विशेषकर  in the Middle Ages , when many Spartans  स्थानांतरित  to live in Mystras  .
Modern  स्पार्टा  is the  पूंजी  of  the  Greek regional  ईकाई   of   laconia  and a  बीच  for the processing of goods  ऐसे  as  citrus  and olives  .
Sparta was unique in ancient Greece for its social system and constitution ,  जिससे  completely focused  on  military training  और  excellence .
Its inhabitants were classified as Spartiates  (   spartan  citizens  ,  who enjoyed full rights ) , Mothakes ( non-Spartan free  मेन  raised as Spartans ) , Perioikoi ( freedmen )  ,  and Helots  (  state-owned  serfs  , enslaved non-Spartan  लोकल  population ) .
Spartiates underwent the rigorous  agoge  training and education  regimen   ,  and  spartan   phalanges  were widely considered  to  be  among  the best in battle .
spartan  women  enjoyed  considerably more rights and equality to men than  elsewhere  in the classical world .
Sparta  थी  the subject  of  fascination in its own day , as well as  in  the West following the  पुनरुद्धार  of  शास्त्रीय   सीखना  .
This love or admiration  of   स्पार्टा  is known as Laconism  or  Laconophilia  .
काल्पनिक   फ़ुटबॉल  is an interactive competition in which users compete  विरूद्ध  each other as general managers of  आभासी  teams  .
the  players that an individual is able to manage are professional American football  खिलाड़ी  in the National Football League .
The different actions  लोगों  are able to make are  drafting  ,  व्यापार  , adding or dropping players , and changing  rosters  .
Due  to  the growth of the Internet , Fantasy football has  vastly  increased in popularity  ,  particularly because Fantasy football providers such  as   ईएसपीएन  , Yahoo , CBS ,  और  the NFL itself are able to keep track of statistics entirely online , eliminating  the  need to check box scores and newspapers regularly to keep track  of  players  .
Most leagues have  a  single week championship in  सप्ताह   16  of the NFL season  .
World  जनसांख्यिकी  estimates from 1800 to  2100   ,  based on UN  2010   projections  ( red , orange ,  ग्रीन   )   और  US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ) .
Actual recorded population figures are in  ब्लू  .
According to the highest estimate , the  संसार  population may rise to  16  billion  by  2100 ; according  to  the lowest estimate  ,   it   may   मनाही   to  6 billion  .
The world population is the total number of living humans  on   धरती  .
As of  आज  , it is estimated to number billion  by  the United States Census Bureau ( USCB  )  .
The USCB estimates that the world population  exceeded  7  अरब  on March  12  ,  2012  .
According to a separate estimate by  the  United Nations  जनसांख्यिकी  Fund  ,  it  पहुँचे  this  पड़ाव  on October  31  ,  2011  .
The  संसार  population has  अनुभवी  continuous  विकास  since the  समाप्त  of the Great Famine and the Black Death in  1350   ,  when it stood at around 370 million  .
The highest rates of growth –  वैश्विक  population increases above  1.8  % per  साल   –   यहूद  seen briefly  दौरान  the 1950s , and for a longer  काल  during  the  1960s and  1970s  .
The growth rate peaked at  2.2   %  in  1963   ,   और  had declined to 1.1 % by 2011 .
Total  सालाना  births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million , and  हैं  now expected to remain  essentially  constant  at  their  2011  level of 134 million  ,   जबकि  deaths number  56  million  प्रति  year , and are expected to increase to 80 million  प्रति  year by  2040  .
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the  निकट   भविष्य  ( but a steady  मनाही  in the population  विकास  rate  )  ,  साथ  the global population expected to  पहुँचें  between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by  2050   .
विभिन्न  longer-term  estimates   भविष्यवाणी  further growth , stagnation  ,  or even  overall  decline in the global  जनसांख्यिकी  by 2150 .
Some analysts  have  questioned the sustainability of further world population  विकास  , citing the growing  pressures  on the environment  ,  global  खाना   आपूर्तियाँ   ,  and energy resources  .
Skeletal muscles homo sapiens
This  is  a table of muscles  of   the  human anatomy .
There are  लगभग  642 skeletal muscles within  the  typical human , and almost every muscle constitutes one  भाग  of  a  pair of identical bilateral muscles , found on  दोनो  sides  ,  resulting in approximately  320   pairs  of muscles , as presented in this article  .
Nevertheless  ,   the  exact  क्रमांक  is  मुश्किल  to  define  because  अलग   स्त्रोत  group muscles differently , e.g .  regarding  what is defined  as   अलग  parts of a single muscle or as several muscles  .
Examples range from 640 to 850 .
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of  समूह  which include muscles relating to the head and neck , muscles of the torso  or   ट्रंक  ,  मांसपेशियां  of the  अपर   limbs  , and muscles of the lower  limbs  .
The action refers to  the   कार्रवाई  of each  मांसपेशी  from the standard anatomical position  .
In other  स्थितियाँ  , other  क्रियाएँ   may  be  performed  .
A gold bar is a quantity of refined metallic gold of  कोई  shape that is made by a bar producer meeting standard conditions of manufacture  ,  labeling ,  और  record keeping .
Larger  सुनहरा  bars that are  उत्पादित  by pouring the molten metal into molds are called ingots .
Smaller  बार  may  be  manufactured by minting or stamping from appropriately rolled gold sheets  .
The standard gold bar held as  सुनहरा  reserves  by  central banks and  traded  among  bullion  dealers  is  the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounces  )  Good Delivery gold bar .
the  kilobar , which is  to  say 1000 grams in mass , is the bar  कि   is  more manageable  और  is used extensively for trading and  निवेश  .
the  premium on these bars when traded is  बहुत  low over  the  spot value of  the  gold making it ideal for small transfers  between   बैंको  and traders .
Most kilobars are flat , although some investors , particularly in Europe , prefer the brick shape  .
Elisha Archibald `` Archie '' Manning III ( born May 19 , 1949 ) is a former American football quarterback  in  the  नेशनल  Football League , playing for the  नई  Orleans Saints from 1971  to   1982  , then for the Houston Oilers and Minnesota Vikings  .
He is the father of  वर्तमान   डेनवर  Broncos quarterback Peyton  मैनिंग  , current New York Giants starting quarterback Eli  मैनिंग  , and  पूर्व   ओले  Miss receiver Cooper Manning .
Advocacy is  a  political process by an individual or  समूह   जिससे  aims to  influence  public-policy  और   संसाधन  allocation decisions within political , economic , and social systems and institutions .
Advocacy  can  include many activities  कि  a person or  संगठन  undertakes including media campaigns  ,  public  बोलना  , commissioning  और  publishing research or polls or the  दाखिल  of an  amicus  brief .
Lobbying  (   प्रायः  by lobby groups ) is a form of advocacy where a direct  दृष्टिकोण  is made to legislators on an  समस्या  which plays a  significant  role  in  modern politics .
Research is beginning to explore  कैसा   वकालत  groups  in   the  U.S. and Canada are using social  मीडिया  to facilitate civic engagement  और  collective action  .
The flag of Mexico ( Spanish : Bandera de México ) is a vertical tricolor of green ,  श्वेत  , and red with the national coat of arms charged in  the  center of the white stripe .
While  the  meaning of the colors has changed  over  time ,  ये  three colors were adopted by Mexico following independence  इससे  Spain during the country  's  War of Independence , and subsequent First Mexican Empire .
The current flag was adopted in 1968 , but  the  overall design has been used since 1821 , when the First National  ध्वज   थी  created .
The current law  of  national symbols , Law on  the  National Arms , Flag , and  गान  , that governs the use of the national flag  रै  been in place  चूंकि  1984 .
रेड  , white , and green are the colors of the national liberation army in Mexico .
The central emblem is the Aztec  pictogram  for Tenochtitlan ( now Mexico City ) , the center of their empire .
It recalls the legend  कि  inspired the Aztecs to settle on what was originally a lake-island .
The form of the coat of arms was most recently revised in 1968  .
A ribbon  in   the  national colors is at the  नीचे  of  the  coat of  बाहें  .
Throughout history , the flag has changed four times , as  the   डिज़ाइन  of the coat of arms and  the  length-width ratios of the flag have been modified .
However , the  कोट  of arms has had  the   वही  features throughout  :  an  त्रिभुज  , holding a serpent  in  its talon ,  is  perched on top  of  a prickly pear cactus ; the cactus is  situated   on  a rock that rises above a  झील  .
The coat of arms is derived from an Aztec legend that their gods told them to build a  नगर  where they spot an eagle on a nopal  खाने  a serpent , which is  अभी  Mexico City .
The current national flag , the Fourth National Flag , is also used as  the   मैक्सिकन  naval ensign by  जहाजों   पंजीकृत  in Mexico .
A destination marketing organization or convention and visitor bureau promotes a town , city ,  प्रदेश  , or country in  अनुक्रम  to increase the number of visitors .
It promotes  the  development and marketing of a destination  ,  focusing on convention sales , tourism  विपणन  , and services .
Such organizations  प्रचार  economic development  of   a  destination by increasing visits from tourists and business travelers , which  generates  overnight lodging for a destination , visits to  रेस्तरां  , and shopping revenues .
Convention and  आगंतुक  bureaus are the  सबसे  important tourism marketing  संगठन  in their respective tourist destinations  ,  as  वे  are  सीधे  responsible  लिये  marketing the  गंतव्य  brand through travel  और  tourism `` product  जागरूकता  ''  to  visitors  .
DMOs produce billions of  डॉलर  in direct and indirect revenue  और  taxes for their destinations ' economies with their  विपणन   और  sales expertise .
Destination marketing organizations are often  पुकारा  travel , convention , visitors  ,   or  tourism bureaux  ,  welcome centers , information centers and more .
Regardless of the name  ,  these organizations offer many  सेवाएं   to  the traveling public .
The elk or  wapiti  ( Cervus canadensis ) is one of the largest species of deer in the world  ,  and one of the largest  जमीन  mammals in North America and eastern  एशिया  .
It was long  believed  to be a subspecies  of  the European  रेड  deer  (  Cervus elaphus ) , but  प्रमाण  from a 2004  पढ़ाई  of the mitochondrial DNA  indicates  that the two are  पृथक  species  .
This animal  चाहिए  not be confused with the larger moose ( Alces alces )  ,  to which  the  name `` elk '' applies in  यूरेशिया  .
Apart from the moose ,  the  only  अन्य  member of  the  deer family to rival the  नीलगाय   in  size is the south Asian sambar (  rusa  unicolor ) .
Elk range  in  forest and  forest-edge  habitat ,  feeding  on grasses , plants ,  पत्ते   ,   और  bark .
Although native to North America  और  eastern  एशिया   ,  they have adapted well to countries where they have been introduced , including Argentina  ,  Australia  ,  and  नई  Zealand .
Their great adaptability may threaten endemic species and ecosystems into which they have been introduced .
Male elk  have   विशाल  antlers which are  शेड   प्रत्येक  year .
Males also engage in  ritualized   समागम  behaviors during the rut , including posturing ,  antler  wrestling ( sparring ) , and bugling , a loud series of vocalizations which establishes dominance  over   अन्य   males   और  attracts  महिलाओं  .
Elk are susceptible to a number of infectious diseases , some  of  which can  be  transmitted to livestock .
Efforts  to  eliminate infectious diseases from  नीलगाय  populations ,  largely  through vaccination , have had  मिश्रित  success .
Some cultures  आदर  the elk as a spiritual force .
In parts of Asia ,  antlers  and  उनके  velvet are used in traditional medicines .
नीलगाय   हैं  hunted as a game species ; the  मांस  is  leaner  and higher in  प्रोटीन   than  beef or  मुर्गा  .
The  जार्ज  Washington University (  gw  , GWU  ,   or   जार्ज  Washington ) is a comprehensive private , coeducational  शोध  university located in Washington , D.C.  .
It awards certificates , Bachelor  डिग्री  , Masters degrees , and PhDs across  अनेक  dozen disciplines  .
the  university  थी  chartered  by  an Act of  कॉंग्रेस  on February  9  ,  1821  as The Columbian  कॉलेज  in  the  District of Columbia .
The lion ( Panthera leo ) is one  of  the four  बिग  cats in the genus Panthera and a member of the family  फ़ेलिडाए  .
With  कुछ  males exceeding in weight , it is the second-largest living cat  बाद   the  tiger .
Wild  शेर  currently exist in sub-Saharan Africa and in Asia ( where an endangered remnant population resides in Gir Forest National Park in  इण्डिया  ) while  अन्य  types of lions  have  disappeared from  उत्तर  Africa and Southwest Asia  in  historic times .
Until the  लेट  Pleistocene , about 10,000  सालो  ago  ,   the  lion was the  सबसे  widespread large  जमीन  mammal after humans .
They were found in  सबसे   of  Africa ,  आरपार   यूरेशिया  from western  यूरोपीय  to India , and in the Americas from the Yukon to Peru .
The  शेर  is a vulnerable species  ,  having seen  a   प्रमुख  population  मनाही  of 30–50 % over the  पास्ट   दो  decades in  इसके  African  दायरा  .
Lion  populations  are untenable outside designated reserves  और  national parks .
Although the cause  of  the  मनाही  is not fully understood , habitat loss  और  conflicts  साथ  humans  हैं  currently the greatest causes of concern  .
भीतर  Africa , the West African  शेर  population is particularly endangered .
शेर  live for 10–14 years in the wild  ,  while in captivity  वे  can live longer than  20  years .
In the  जंगली   ,  males seldom  सजीव  longer than 10 years , as injuries sustained from continual fighting with rival  males  greatly reduce  उनके   आयु   .
They typically inhabit savanna and grassland , although they may  लो  to bush and  वन  .
Lions  हैं  unusually social compared to other cats .
A  अभिमान  of lions consists of  सम्बन्धित  females and offspring and  a  small number of adult males .
Groups of  मादा  lions typically hunt together , preying  ज़्यादातर  on large ungulates .
शेर  are apex and keystone predators ,  हालांकि  they scavenge  as  opportunity allows .
While lions do  नहीं   typically   हंट  humans ,  कुछ  have been  ज्ञात  to do  so  .
Sleeping  मुख्यतः  during the day , lions are primarily  nocturnal   ,  although  bordering   on  crepuscular in nature .
अत्यधिक  distinctive , the male lion is  easily  recognised by its mane , and its face is one of the most widely  recognised  animal symbols in human culture .
Depictions  have  existed from the Upper Paleolithic period , with carvings and  paintings  from the Lascaux and  chauvet  Caves , through virtually all ancient and medieval  संस्कृतियों  where they once occurred .
It has  महरूम  extensively  चित्रित  in sculptures , in paintings  ,  on  नेशनल  flags  ,  and in contemporary films and  साहित्य  .
Lions  have  been  रखा  in menageries since the time of the Roman Empire  ,   और  have been a  कुंजी  species sought for exhibition in zoos over the world  चूंकि  the late 18th century .
Zoos  हैं  cooperating worldwide in breeding  कार्यक्रम  for the  endangered  Asiatic subspecies .
In the  इतिहास  of video games , the seventh generation of consoles is the previous  पीढी  , and  शामिल  consoles released since late by Nintendo , Microsoft , and Sony .
For  घर  consoles , the seventh generation began on 22 November 2005 with the release of Xbox 360  और   जारी  with the release of PlayStation 3  on  11 November  2006  , and Wii on 19 November 2006 .
Each new  कंसोल   introduced  a new type of breakthrough  in  technology .
the  Xbox 360 offered  खेल  rendered natively  at   hd  resolutions  ,  the PlayStation 3 offered , in addition  to   fhd  gaming , HD movie playback via a built-in 3D Blu-ray Disc player , and the Wii focused on integrating  परिरक्षक  with movement sensors  as  well as joysticks .
joining  Nintendo in the motion market , Sony released the PlayStation Move  in   सितंबर  2010 .
The PlayStation Move  सुविधाएँ  motion sensing gaming , similar to that of  the  Wii .
Microsoft also joined Sony and Nintendo , with its Kinect .
Unlike the other  दो  systems ( PlayStation 3 and Wii ) , Kinect does not use any controllers of any sort and makes the users the `` controller . ''
having  sold 8  लाख  units in its first 60 days  on  the market ,  kinect  has claimed the Guinness World  रिकार्ड   of  being  the  `` fastest selling  उपभोक्ता  electronics  यंत्र  '' .
While the Xbox 360 offers wired controllers  as  a standalone product ,  सब  PlayStation 3 controllers can be used  in   तार  and wireless configurations .
starting  with  हैंडहेल्ड  consoles , the seventh  पीढी   began  on 21 November 2004 with  the  North American introduction of the Nintendo DS as  a   ``  third  pillar  '' , alongside Nintendo  's  existing Game  लड़के  Advance and GameCube consoles  .
the   निन्टेंडो  DS ( NDS ) features a touch screen and built-in microphone , and supports wireless  आईईईई   802.11  ( Wi-Fi ) standards .
Additionally , the revised version of the NDS ,  the  DSi , features two  निर्मित  in  कैमरे  , the ability to download  खेल  from  the  DSi store ,  और  a web browser .
The PlayStation  पोर्टेबल  , or PSP , released later the same  साल  on 12 December  2004  , followed  a  different pattern .
It  became   the  first handheld video game  कंसोल   to  use an optical disc format , Universal Media  डिस्क  ( UMD ) , as its primary storage media .
Sony  भी  gave the PSP robust multi-media  काबिलियत  , connectivity with the  प्लेस्टेशन  3 and other PSPs , and Internet connectivity .
the  Nintendo DS likewise  रै  connectivity  to  the internet  through  the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection and Nintendo  ds  Browser , as well as wireless connectivity  to   अन्य  DS systems and  वी   consoles   .
Despite high sales numbers for  दोनो  consoles , PlayStation Portable sales have consistently lagged behind those of the Nintendo DS ; nevertheless , the  प्लेस्टेशन  Portable has the distinction of being the best-selling  non-nintendo  handheld gaming system .
Sgt  .  Pepper 's Lonely Hearts  क्लबों  Band ( often  shortened  to Sgt .  pepper  ) is the eighth  स्टुडियो   एल्बम   by  English  चट्टान  band  the  Beatles  .
Released  in  June 1967 , the album  शामिल  songs such  as  `` With a Little Help from  my  Friends `` , ``  लुसी  in the Sky  साथ  Diamonds  ``   ,  and `` A  दिन  in the Life ``  .
Continuing the artistic  maturation   देखी  on the  बैंड  's  एल्बम  Revolver (  1966  ) , Sgt . Pepper further  रजि  from the conventional pop rock idiom of the time and incorporated  balladry   ,  psychedelic , music hall , and symphonic influences .
During the Sgt .  pepper  sessions , the group  improved  upon the quality of  उनके  music 's production while exploring experimental recording techniques  .
Producer George  मार्टिन  's innovative approach included the use of an orchestra .
Widely acclaimed and imitated , the album cover , designed  by  English pop artists Peter Blake and Jann Haworth ,  थी  inspired by  a  sketch by Paul McCartney that depicted the band posing in front of a collage of some of  उनके  favourite celebrities  .
Sgt  .  Pepper  थी  a worldwide critical and commercial success ,  बिता  27  सप्ताह  at the top of the UK Album Chart and  15  weeks at number one on the US Billboard  200   .
A seminal work in  the  emerging  साइकेडेलिक   चट्टान  style , the album was  critically  acclaimed upon release and won four  ग्रैमी   पुरस्कार  in 1968 .
With an estimated  32  million copies sold , it is one of the world  's  best selling albums .
Sgt . Pepper is considered by  अनेक   to   be  the most influential and famous rock album ever ,  और  has been  नामित  the greatest album of all time by  दोनो  All Time Top 1000 Albums and Rolling Stone  .
The temporal lobe is a  प्रदेश  of the cerebral cortex  कि   is   स्तिथ   beneath  the lateral fissure on both cerebral  बांटती  of the mammalian brain .
the   temporal  lobes are involved in the retention of visual  यादें  , processing  संवेदी  input ,  comprehending  language , storing new memories ,  जज्बात  ,  और  deriving meaning .
the   इंसान  lungs are the  अंगों  of respiration in humans .
Humans have two lungs , a right  फेफड़ों   और  a left lung .
the  right lung consists of three lobes  जबकि  the left lung is  थोड़ा  smaller consisting of only two lobes ( the left lung has a `` cardiac notch '' allowing space for  the   दिल  within  the  chest ) .
साथ   ,  the lungs contain approximately of airways and 300  to  500 million alveoli  ,  having a  कुल   सतह  area of about  (  ) in  वयस्कों  —  roughly  the same area as  एक  side of  a  tennis court .
furthermore  , if all  of  the capillaries that  घेर  the alveoli were unwound  और  laid end to end  ,  they would extend for  परिचय  .
Each  फेफड़ों  weighs , therefore making the entire organ  परिचय   .
Human  फेफड़े
The trachea divides into two  bronchi  ( one for each  पक्ष   )   at   the  level  of  T4  .
This  जंक्शन  is also known as the  carina  .
The conducting zone contains  the  trachea , the  bronchi  , the bronchioles , and  the   टर्मिनल  bronchioles The  respiratory   मण्डल  contains the respiratory  bronchioles  , the alveolar ducts , and the alveoli .
The  conducting  zone and the respiratory stuffers ( but not  the  alveoli ) are  बना   up   of  airways .
The conducting zone has no  गैस   एक्सचेंज  with the  रक्त   ,  and is reinforced  साथ  cartilage in order to hold  खोलें  the  एयरवेज़  .
the   conducting  zone warms the air  to   और  humidifies the air .
It also cleanses the air by removing particles via cilia located on the walls of all the  passageways  .
The lungs are  घिरी   by  the rib cage  .
The respiratory zone is the site of gas exchange with blood .
The sympathetic  बेचैन  system via noradrenaline  एक्टिंग  on the beta receptors causes  bronchodilation  .
the  parasympathetic nervous system via acetylcholine , which acts on  the  M-3 muscarinic receptors  ,  maintains  the  resting  टोन  of the bronchiolar smooth muscle .
This action is  सम्बन्धित   ,  although considered distinct from  bronchoconstriction  .
अनेक  other non-autonomic nervous  और   biochemical  stimuli , including carbon  डाइऑक्साइड  and oxygen , are also involved in  the  regulation  प्रक्रम  .
The pleural cavity is the  संभावित  space between the parietal pleura , lining the inner wall of the thoracic cage , and the visceral  pleura  lining the lungs  .
The lung parenchyma is strictly used to refer solely to alveolar tissue with respiratory  bronchioles  ,  alveolar  ducts  और   टर्मिनल  bronchioles .
However , it often includes any form of  फेफड़ों   ऊतक  , also including bronchioles , bronchi  ,  blood vessels and  फेफड़ों  interstitium .
the   मार्गरिटा  is a Mexican cocktail  consisting  of tequila  मिश्रित  with Cointreau or  समान  orange -flavoured liqueur and lime or lemon juice  ,  often served with salt on the glass rim .
It is  the  most common  tequila-based   कॉकटेल  in the United  राज्य  .
The  पेय  is served shaken with ice (  on   the  rocks ) , blended with ice ( frozen  मार्गरिटा  )  ,  or  बगैर  ice ( straight up  )  .
Two  बोतलों   of   रेड  Burgundy wine  इससे  Gevrey-Chambertin , Côtes de Nuits
Burgundy  is   a  dark  रेड  color associated  साथ  the Burgundy wine  of  the  वही  name , which in turn is named after the  बरगंडी   प्रदेश   of  France .
The color burgundy is similar  to  other shades  of  dark  रेड  such as maroon .
जब  referring to  the  color  ,  `` burgundy ''  is  usually not capitalized .
The  पहला  recorded  उपयोग  of `` burgundy '' as a  रंग  name  in  English was  in   1881  .
Grave of  an   अनजान  British soldier , killed  in  1943 during the Battle of  leros  .
Because his identity is unknown  ,  he  is  missing  in   कार्रवाई  .
संगीन  of an  अनजान  American  सिपाही  in Oise-Aisne  कब्रिस्तान  .
Killed in 1917
संगीन  of an unknown paratrooper  ,  killed in the Battle of Arnhem  ,  1944 .
Photographed in  अप्रैल  1945
Graves  of   11  unknown British soldiers killed during World  युद्ध  II ,  in  Rhodes  cwgc  war cemetery
Wall crypts containing remains of unknown Italian soldiers  मारे   दौरान   संसार  War  ii  , in a Rhodes cemetery
Some of the  72,000  names inscribed on  the  Thiepval Memorial to the Missing of the Somme
Graves of unknown French  सैनिको  killed during World War One .
Each concrete cross  रै  a metal plaque bearing the word `` Inconnu ''  i.e  . `` Unknown  ''
Ossuary at  the  Gallipoli battlefield , containing the remains of  3000  unidentified French soldiers  जो   died  in 1915
Graves of  अनजान  Eritrean Ascaris killed in  1941  during the Battle of Keren
लापता  in action  (  MIA ) is a casualty Category assigned under the Status of Missing  to   हथियारबंद   सेवाएं   कर्मियों  who are reported missing  दौरान   क्रियाशील  service .
वे  may have  महरूम   मारे  , wounded ,  become  a prisoner  of  war  ,  or  उजाड़   .
If deceased , neither  उनके  remains nor  संगीन  can be positively identified .
Becoming MIA  रै  been  an   occupational  risk  लिये  service personnel for as long  as  there has been warfare .
Chamber  of  Commerce Building in Center .
This building is the  असली  jail , built along with the Historic Courthouse .
दोनो   बैठना   on  the Town Square .
The  रिओ  Theater in Center
First Baptist Church at 117 Cora Street in Center is located next to the  शहर  section .
First Christian Church at 124 Cora Street in Center  is  one of the  oldest  congregations in the community .
बीच  is a city in Shelby County  ,  Texas , United States .
The population  थी  5,193  at  the  2010  census .
it  is the  काउंटी   सीट  of Shelby County .
It  is  named for its  स्थान   निकट  the center of Shelby County  ,  not for its location in Texas as it is  स्तिथ  near the Louisiana border .
Intense red-eye  प्रभाव  in  ब्लू  eyes with dilated  pupil
The red-eye effect in photography is the common appearance of red pupils  in  color photographs of eyes .
it  occurs when using a  फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक  flash very close to the camera lens ( as  साथ  most  कॉम्पैक्ट  cameras  )   ,  in ambient  कम  light  .
The  प्रभाव   appears  in the eyes of humans and animals  कि  have  tapetum  lucidum  .
Theatrical  followspot   ऑपरेटर  , positioned nearly coincidentally with a very bright light and somewhat distant  इससे  the actors  ,  occasionally witness red-eye in actors on  स्टेज   .
The effect is  नहीं  visible to the rest of the audience because  it   is  reliant  on  the very small angle between  the  followspot  ऑपरेटर  and the light .
The University  of   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , Santa Barbara ( commonly referred to as UC Santa Barbara or UCSB ) is a public  शोध  university  और  one  of  the  टेन  general campuses  of  the University of California system .
The main campus is located on a site in Goleta  ,  California , United States , from Santa Barbara and northwest of Los Angeles .
Tracing  इसके  roots back to 1891 as an  स्वतंत्र   शिक्षक  ' college , UCSB joined  the   विश्वविद्यालयों   of  California system in 1944 and  is   the  third-oldest general-education  कैम्पस  in  the  system .
UCSB is one  of  America 's Public Ivy universities , which  recognizes   शीर्ष  public  शोध   विश्वविद्यालयों  in the United States  .
the  university is a  व्यापक  doctoral university  और   is  organized into five  कॉलेजों   और  schools offering  87   undergraduate  degrees and 55  ग्रैजुएट  degrees .
The campus is the 6th-largest in the UC system by enrollment  साथ  18,977 undergraduate  और  2,950 graduate students .
in  2012 , UCSB was ranked 41st among `` National Universities '' and 10th among public universities  by   u.S.  News & World Report .
The university was  भी  ranked 35th worldwide by the Times Higher  शिक्षा  World University  rankings   और  34th  विश्वव्यापी  ( 6th worldwide for engineering )  by   the  Academic Ranking of  संसार  Universities in 2012. < ref name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 '' >
UC Santa Barbara is a `` very high activity '' research university and spent  $  191.2 million on research expenditures in the 2007 fiscal year , 97th-largest in  the  United States .
UCSB houses twelve national research  centers   ,   सहित  the renowned Kavli Institute for  सैद्धांतिक  Physics .
UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates , one Fields Medalist , 29 members of the  नेशनल   अकादमी  of Sciences ,  27  members of  the   नेशनल  Academy  of   अभियान्त्रिकी  , and 31 members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences  .
UCSB was the No  .  3 host  on  the ARPAnet  और  was elected to the  संघ   of   अमरीकी  Universities in 1995 .
The UC Santa Barbara Gauchos  compete   in  the NCAA Division I Big West  सम्मेलन  .
The  gauchos  have won NCAA  नेशनल   championships  in men 's soccer and men 's water  पोलो  .
Saint Joseph with the Infant Jesus by Guido Reni
Saint Joseph 's Day , March 19 , the  feast   of  St. Joseph is  in  Western Christianity  the  principal  feast  day of Saint Joseph , Spouse  of  the Blessed  वर्जिन  Mary .
He is also the  step-father  of Jesus  of  Nazareth /Jesus Christ .
It has  the  rank  of  a solemnity in the Roman Catholic Church ; Catholics who follow the  missal  of 1962  celebrate  it  as   a   पहला  class  feast  .
Previous to 1962  it  was celebrated  as  a feast  of  the rank of double of the  पहला  class .
It is a feast or commemoration  in  the provinces of the Anglican  नियाज़  , and a feast or festival in  the  Lutheran Church .
Saint  जोसेफ   's  Day  is  the Patronal Feast day for  कैंडल   as  well as  लिये   कनाडा  , persons named  जोसेफ  , Josephine , etc. , for religious institutes , schools and parishes bearing  उसके  name  ,   और   लिये   बढ़ई  .
It is  भी  Father 's Day in  कुछ  Catholic countries , mainly Spain ,  पुर्तगाल   ,   और  Italy .
कूच  19 was dedicated to Saint  जोसेफ  in  अनेक  Western calendars by the  दसवाँ  century ,  और  this custom was established in Rome by 1479 .
Pope St. Pius V extended its use to  the  entire  रोमन   रीति   by  his  अपोस्टोलिक  Constitution Quo Primum ( July  14  , 1570 ) .
Since 1969 , Episcopal Conferences  may  , if  वे  wish , transfer it to a date  बाहर  Lent .
Between 1870 and  1955  , a  feast  was celebrated in honor of St. Joseph  as   जीवनसाथी  of the  धन्य  Virgin Mary and Patron of the Universal Church , the latter title having been given  to  him by Pope Pius IX .
Originally celebrated on the  तीसरा  Sunday after Easter with  an  octave , after Divino Afflatu  of   st.  Pius  x  ( see Reform of the Roman Breviary by  पोप   पायस  X ) , it was moved to the preceding Wednesday .
The  feast  was also  retitled  The Solemnity of Saint Joseph .
इस  celebration  और  its accompanying octave  थी  abolished  दौरान  the  आधुनिकीकरण   और  simplification  of  rubrics under Pope Pius  बारहवीं   in  1955 .
it  is still maintained  by  Catholics  जो   follow  the missal of 1962 or earlier missals .
As the traditional holiday of the  रसूलों  Ss . Philip and James ,  may  1 , had faded from  the  memory of most Catholics  by  the mid-twentieth century , that  of  Joseph the Worker was created in order to  coincide   साथ  the celebration of international Labour Day ( May Day  )  in many countries .
The feast of  ss  .  फिलिप  and James  ,   जिससे  had been  मनाये  on that date since the sixth century ,  थी   स्थानांतरित  from its traditional place  .
In the new calendar  प्रकाशित  in 1969 , the  feast  , which at  एक  time occupied the  उच्चतम  possible  रैंक   in  the Church calendar , was reduced  to  an optional Memorial , the  न्यूनतम  rank for a saint 's day .
the  Eastern Orthodox Church celebrates Saint Joseph  on  the Sunday  बाद  Christmas .
Mariah Carey ( born March 27 , 1970  )  is an American singer , songwriter , record  निर्माता  , actress  ,  and philanthropist .
अंतर्गत   the  guidance of  कोलंबिया  Records executive Tommy  mottola  , Carey released her  self-titled   डेब्यू   स्टुडियो  album Mariah  कैरी   in   1990   ;  it went multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles  on   the  U.S .  बिलबोर्ड  Hot 100 chart .
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success  साथ  hit records Emotions (  1991  )  ,  Music Box ( 1993 )  ,  and Merry  क्रिसमस  ( 1994 ) , Carey was established as  कोलंबिया  's highest-selling act .
Daydream  (  1995 ) made music history when its second  सिंगल   ``  One  मीठी  Day `` , a  duet  with  बॉयज   ii  Men , spent a record sixteen weeks  on   शीर्ष  of the Billboard Hot 100 , and remains the  longest-running  number-one song in U.S. chart history .
During the recording  of  the album ,  कैरी  began to deviate from her  r  & B and pop beginnings  और  slowly traversed into hip hop .
This musical  बदलें  became evident with the release of Butterfly (  1997  )  ,  at which time  कैरी  had separated from  mottola  .
Carey left Columbia in 2000 ,  और  signed  a  record-breaking $ 100 million recording contract  साथ   वर्जिन  Records  .
पहले  the release of her  पहला  feature film Glitter ( 2001 ) , she suffered a physical and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized for  कठोर  exhaustion .
Following the film 's poor reception ,  वो  was bought out of  उसके  recording contract for  $  50 million  ,  which led to  a  decline in  उसके  career .
वो   हस्ताक्षरित  a  multi-million  dollar  अनुबंध  deal with Island Records in  2002  , and  बाद  an  unsuccessful  period ,  लौटे  to the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi (  2005  )  .
Its second  सिंगल  `` We Belong Together `` became her most successful single of the 2000s , and was later named ``  सोंग  of the Decade '' by  बिलबोर्ड  .
कैरी  once again ventured into film  साथ  a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; she was  awarded  the  ``  Breakthrough Performance Award '' at  the  Palm Springs  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   फिल्मी  Festival , and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award  nominations  .
In a career spanning over two decades , Carey  रै   बेची  more than  200  million records worldwide  ,  making her one  of  the best-selling  म्यूज़िक  artists of all time .
In 1998 , she was honored as  the  world  's   best-selling  recording artist of the 1990s  at  the World  म्यूज़िक  Awards  .
Carey  थी  also named the  best-selling  female artist of the millennium in 2000  .
According to the Recording Industry Association of America  ,  she is the third best-selling female artist in the United  राज्य  , with 63.5  लाख  certified albums .
With the release of `` Touch My Body ``  (   2008  ) , Carey gained her  eighteenth  number  एक  single in the United States  ,   अधिक  than any other  सोलो  artist  .
in  2012 ,  कैरी  was ranked  दूसरी   on   vh1  's  सूची   of  the `` 100 Greatest Women  in  Music '' .
aside   इससे  her commercial accomplishments ,  कैरी  has won five Grammy Awards , 17 World Music Awards , 11 American Music  पुरस्कार  , and 31 Billboard Music Awards .
Referred to as the `` songbird  परम्  '' by the Guinness World Records , she is famed  लिये  her five-octave vocal range , power  ,   melismatic  style and  हस्ताक्षर  use  of  the whistle  पंजीकरण  .
A bumblebee is any member of the bee genus Bombus , in the family Apidae .
वहीँ  are over 250  ज्ञात  species , existing primarily in the Northern Hemisphere  हालांकि  they also occur in South America .
They have been introduced to New  जीलैंड  and the  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  state of Tasmania .
bumblebees  are social insects that  हैं   characterised  by black and  पीला  body hairs ,  प्रायः   in  bands  .
However , some species have orange  or  red on their bodies  ,   or   may  be entirely black .
another  obvious ( but not unique  )  characteristic  is  the soft nature of the hair ( long , branched setae ) , called pile ,  कि  covers their entire body , making them  appear  and  महसूस  fuzzy .
वे  are best distinguished from  similarly  large , fuzzy bees by  the  form of the female hind leg  ,  which is modified to form a corbicula : a shiny concave surface that  is  bare , but surrounded  by  a fringe of hairs used to transport pollen ( in similar bees  ,  the hind leg  is  completely hairy , and pollen  दाने   हैं   wedged  into the  बालों  for transport ) .
Like their relatives the honey bees , bumblebees feed on nectar  और  gather  पराग   to  feed their young  .
a  man openly carrying  a  handgun in a Burger  किंग   in  Eagle , Colorado  .
In  the  United States , open carry is shorthand terminology for ``  खुलकर   carrying  a firearm in public '' , as distinguished from concealed carry , where  firearms   can  not be seen by the casual  निरीक्षक  .
The practice of open carry , where gun  स्वामी  openly carry  firearms  while they go about their daily business , has seen an increase  in  the U.S. in recent  सालो  .
This has  महरूम  marked by a number of organized events intended to  बढ़ाएँ  the visibility  of  open  carry   और  public  जागरूकता  about the practice .
Proponents of open carry point to history and  आंकडे  ,  noting  that criminals usually  छिपाते   उनके  weapons .
Encouraged  by  groups like OpenCarry.org , GeorgiaCarry.org  और  some participants of the Free  राज्य  Project , open carry has seen  a   पुनरुद्धार  in  हाल  years , but it is not yet  साफ  if this represents  बस  a short-term trend  .
the   गन  rights community has been mixed in its response .
Alan Gottlieb of the Second Amendment  न्यास   और  the NRA have  महरूम  cautious in expressing support  ,  while special-interest  समूह   ऐसे  as  the  aforementioned OpenCarry.org and GeorgiaCarry.org , and certain national groups  ऐसे   as  the Gun  स्वामी  of  अमेरिका  ( GOA ) have been more  outspoken  in favor of  the  practice .
Open carry is strongly opposed by gun control groups  ऐसे   as  the Brady Campaign and the  गठबन्धन   to  Stop  गन  Violence  .
the   cattenom  Nuclear Power Plant in France .
फ़्रांस   produces  around three quarters  of   इसके  electricity by nuclear  शक्ति  .
The  grafenrheinfeld  Nuclear Power Plant in  जर्मनी  .
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition  घोषित  on May 30 , 2011 ,  कि  Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations  होगा  be shut down by 2022  ,  in a policy reversal  following  Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster .
Currently , 68 reactors are under construction in  15  countries .
Nuclear power  स्टेशन   operate  in thirty countries  .
In  2010  ,  पहले  the  फुकुशिमा   daiichi  nuclear disaster , it was reported that an average  of  about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year , although according  to  the World Nuclear Association , of the  17  civilian reactors planned to become operational  between  2007  और   2009  , only five actually came on stream  .
as   of  June 2011  ,   जर्मनी  and Switzerland  हैं  phasing-out nuclear power .
As of June 2011 , countries  ऐसे   as  Australia , Austria , Denmark , Greece  ,   आयरलैंड   ,  Italy  ,  Latvia , Liechtenstein , Luxembourg , Malaysia , Malta , New Zealand , Norway and  पुर्तगाल  remain opposed to nuclear power .
Color motion picture film refers both to unexposed  रंग   फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक  film in a format suitable for use in a motion picture camera ,  और  to finished motion picture film , ready for  उपयोग  in a projector ,  जिससे  bears images  in   रंग   .
The first color  cinematography  was  by  means of additive color systems such as the one patented in England by Edward Raymond Turner  in  1899 and tested in  1902  .
a  simplified additive system was developed by George Albert  स्मिथ   और  successfully commercialized in 1909  as   kinemacolor  .
These early systems  प्रयुक्त  black-and-white film to photograph and project two or more component images through different color filters .
Still  इससे  footage recorded by Edward Turner in  1902
With  the  present-day technology  ,  there  हैं   दो  distinct  प्रक्रियाओं  :  eastman   रंग  Negative 2 chemistry  (   कैमरा  negative stocks , duplicating interpositive  और  internegative stocks  )  and Eastman  रंग  Positive 2 chemistry ( positive prints for direct  प्रक्षेप  ) , usually abbreviated as  ecn-2   और  ECP-2 .
Fuji  's  products are compatible with ECN-2  और   ecp-2  .
ashanti  Shequoiya Douglas ( born October 13 , 1980 ) is an American singer-songwriter , record producer ,  और  actress .
Ashanti is most  प्रसिद्ध  for her eponymous debut album , which featured the hit song `` Foolish `` , and sold  over   503,000  copies in its first week  of  release throughout the  u.S.  in April 2002 .
the  album set a Soundscan record as the biggest opening week sales for a new female artist  ,   outselling   debuts  by Alicia  कुंजियाँ   और  Lauryn  हिल  .
In the  वही   सप्ताह  , she became the first female performer to simultaneously hold the top two  स्थान  on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart with `` Foolish ''  ,  and `` What 's Luv ?  ``
( with Fat Joe ) .
Ashanti broke records again  by  having three  शीर्ष   टेन   गीतों  , ``  foolish  , '' `` What  's  Luv  ?  ''  और  ``  सदा  on Time  ``   ,  on the  बिलबोर्ड  Hot 100 charts in the same week  ,   होने  the first woman  to  accomplish this feat and  होने  second  तभी  to  the  Beatles .
In 2003 , the self-titled debut album  जीती  Ashanti  उसके  first Grammy Award for Best Contemporary  r  & B album .
As of April 1st 2013 , Ashanti has sold over 27.7  लाख  records worldwide .
Ashanti  ended  the decade (  2000–09  ) as  the   तीसरा   शीर्ष   नई   r  & B artist behind Alicia Keys  और  Beyoncé  .
She also ended the  दशक  at number 38  on  the Top Artist of the  दशक  list .
She is currently on the list of  the  Twenty Best Selling Music Singles Since 1990 for  उसके  single  foolish  for selling 7.2 million copies to-date .
Ashanti  रै   an  estimated net worth of $ 40  लाख  dollars [ USD ] .
Ashanti wrote and sang background  on  Jennifer  लोपेज़   's  `` Ai n't It  मजेदार  ( Murder Remix  )  `` ,  जिससे  reached number one  on  Billboard  hot  100 , which was also in the top  10   चार्ट  at the same time as `` Foolish '' , `` Always on Time ''  (  with Ja Rule  )  , and ``  कया  's Luv '' ( with Fat Joe ) .
Later that  साल  , she was acclaimed as the `` Princess Of  hip-hop  &  r  &  b  ''  by  her label and capped  बंद  her  कामयाब  debut  by  winning eight Billboard awards and two American Music Awards .
Within seven years  of  Ashanti 's career , she has scored  16   शीर्ष   40   हिट्स  on  the  Hot 100 .
Ashanti  रै  endorsed numerous products including  गैप  ,  हर्बल  Essences and  mudd  Jeans .
ashanti   cites  Whitney Houston , Janet Jackson , Prince  ,   मैडोना   ,   तुपाक  Shakur , Mary J. Blige ,  एला  Fitzgerald , Smokey Robinson , Donna Summer ,  और  Blue Magic  as  her musical influences .
Praised  as  a gifted songwriter by  उसके  peers and critics alike , Ashanti has written/co-written the bulk of all her music  .
She  is   फिलहाल  working on her own publishing company  हकदार  Written  entertainment   .
वो  released her fourth  स्टुडियो   एल्बम  entitled  the  Declaration on June 3 , 2008 and is currently in the  स्टुडियो  working on  उसके  fifth .
She also performed the  दान   धुन  `` Just Stand Up `` alongside 15  अन्य  female singers for  the   ``  Stand Up to Cancer  ''  live television special which helped raise $ 100 million  डॉलर  for cancer  शोध  .
The United States  फौज  Air Forces ( USAAF or  aaf   )  was the military aviation arm of the  संयुक्त  States of America  दौरान  and  तत्काल  after World War II , and the direct predecessor  of  the United States  एयर  Force  .
the  AAF was  a   घटक   of  the United States Army , which in  1942  was  विभाजित  functionally by executive order into three autonomous forces : the Army Ground Forces , the  सेवाएं  of Supply  (  which  in  1943 became the Army Service Forces  )  , and  the   aaf  .
Each  of  these forces had a commanding  सामान्य  who reported directly to the Chief of Staff  of  the United  राज्य  Army .
The AAF  administered  all parts of military aviation formerly distributed among  the  Army Air  corps   ,  General Headquarters Air Force , and ground forces corps area commanders , and  यूँ  became the  पहला  air organization of the U.S. Army to  कंट्रोल  its own installations  और  support personnel .
In  अभ्यास  , the  aaf  was virtually autonomous inside the Army .
The peak size of the AAF was over 2.4 million men and  महिलाओं  in service and  nearly  80,000 aircraft in 1944 , and 783  घरेलू  bases in December 1943 .
By  ve  Day it had 1.25 million men  stationed  overseas and  संचालित   इससे  more  than  1,600 airfields worldwide .
The Air Corps  became  the  फौज   एयर  Forces in June 1941 to provide  the   एयर  arm a  वृहद   स्वायत्तता   in   जिससे  to  विस्तार   अधिक  efficiently , and to provide  a  structure for the additional command echelons required  by   a  vastly  increased   फ़ोर्स  .
Although  अन्य   राष्ट्र  already had  पृथक   एयर  forces independent  of  the army  or   नेवी  ( such as  the  British Royal  एयर  Force and the German Luftwaffe ) , the AAF remained a part of the United  राज्य  Army until the United States Air Force came  into  being in September 1947 .
However , in its expansion  और  conduct of the war , the AAF became more than just an arm of the  वृहद  organization .
by  the  समाप्त  of World War  ii  the  aaf  had become virtually an  स्वतंत्र  service .
By regulation and executive  अनुक्रम  ,  the  AAF  थी   a  subordinate agency of the  युद्ध  Department tasked only with organizing ,  प्रशिक्षण  , and equipping combat units , limited in responsibility to the continental United States , as were  the  Army Ground Forces and the  फौज  Service Forces  .
In reality ,  मुख्यालय  AAF controlled the conduct  of  all aspects of  the  air war in every part  of  the  संसार  , determining air policy and issuing orders without  transmitting  them through  the  Chief of Staff .
This `` contrast  between  theory  और  fact is ... fundamental  to  an understanding of  the  AAF  .  ''
The Freedom  of  Information Act  (  FOIA ) is a federal freedom of  सूचना  law  कि  allows for the  पूरा  or partial  प्रकटीकरण  of previously unreleased  सूचना  and documents controlled by the United  राज्य  government  .
The Act defines  एजेंसी  records subject to disclosure , outlines mandatory disclosure  प्रक्रियाओं  and grants nine exemptions to the statute  .
It was originally signed  into  law by President Lyndon B. Johnson ,  despite  his misgivings , on July 4 , 1966 as and went into effect the following  साल  .
The  संघीय  Government  's  Freedom of Information Act should not be confused with the different and  varying  Freedom  of  Information  अधिनियमों  passed by the  व्यक्तिगत  states .
Many of those state acts may  be  similar  लकिन  not identical to the federal act  .
The European  संघ   (   eu  ) is  an   आर्थिक  and political union of 27 member  राज्य  that are located primarily in Europe .
The EU operates through  a  system of supranational independent institutions and intergovernmental negotiated decisions  by  the member states  .
Institutions of the EU include the European Commission  ,  the Council of the European Union , the European Council ,  the  Court of  इंसाफ  of the European Union , the European Central  बैंको  , the Court of Auditors  ,  and the European Parliament .
The European  पार्लियामेंट  is elected every five  सालो  by EU citizens .
The EU 's de  facto  capital is Brussels .
The EU traces its origins from the European  कोयले  and Steel Community ( ECSC  )  and the European Economic Community (  eec   )  ,  formed  by  the  Inner Six countries  in  1951 and  1958  respectively .
In the intervening years the community and its  successors   have  grown in size by the accession  of  new member  राज्य  and in power by  the  addition of policy areas  to  its  remit   .
The Maastricht Treaty  स्थापित  the European  संघ  under its current  नाम  in  1993  .
The latest major  amendment  to the constitutional  आधार  of  the  EU , the Treaty of Lisbon , came into force  in  2009 .
The  eu  has  विकसित  a  सिंगल   मार्केट  through  a  standardised system of  कानून  that apply in all member  राज्य  .
Within  the  Schengen  क्षेत्रफल   (  which includes 22 EU and 4  non-eu  states ) passport controls have been abolished .
EU policies aim to ensure the free  गति  of people , goods ,  सेवाएं  , and capital , enact legislation in justice and  घर  affairs  ,   और   maintain  common policies on trade , agriculture , fisheries and regional development .
A monetary union  ,  the eurozone ,  थी  established in 1999 and is  रचित  of  17  member states .
through  the Common Foreign and Security Policy  the  EU has developed a  भूमिका  in external relations  और  defence .
स्थाई  diplomatic missions  have  been established  around  the world .
The EU is represented at the United Nations  ,  the WTO ,  the   g8  and  the   g-20   .
With a combined  जनसांख्यिकी  of over 500 million inhabitants , or 7.3 % of the  संसार  population , the EU , in  2012  , generated a nominal  सकल  domestic product (  जीडीपी  ) of 16.584 trillion US  डॉलर   ,   representing  approximately 20 % of the  वैश्विक  GDP  जब  measured in terms  of  purchasing power parity , and  represents  the largest nominal GDP and GDP PPP in the world .
The EU was the recipient of the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize .
The Wales national rugby  लीग   टोली  represent  वेल्स  in international rugby league football matches .
Currently  the  team is seventh  in  the RLIF  संसार  Rankings .
The team  यहूद  run under the auspices of the Rugby Football League  ,  but  an   स्वतंत्र  body , Wales Rugby League , now runs the team from  कार्डिफ  .
A total of three  वेल्श  players have been entered  into  the Rugby League Hall Of  कीर्ति  .
Similar to  अनेक  other Welsh national sporting  टीमों  , Wales strip has  महरूम  primarily red for many years  ,  including  अभी  .
However in their last World Cup  अभियान  in 2000 they did  पहनें  a shirt featuring the Welsh flag  ,  adding a  टच   of  green  और  white  .
The  टोली  is  ज्ञात   as  `` The Dragons '' and so  the  teams  लोगो  on  the  shirt is a  रेड   ड्रैगन   .
The team date  वापस  to 1907 ,  बनाना  them the third oldest national side after England and New Zealand .
And it was a touring New  जीलैंड  side that Wales first played against in 1908 , winning 9-8 at  aberdare  .
Since then Wales have regularly played England , since 1935 France , as well as welcomed the touring Australia  और   नई   जीलैंड  teams , although they rarely toured  themselves  ,  नहीं  playing  a  match in the  दक्षिणी  Hemisphere until 1975  .
लिये  twenty-six years Wales competed against their two  biggest  rivals ,  इंग्लैण्ड  and France  ,  in the European  राष्ट्र  Cup , winning the trophy four times  .
Wales have also competed in the World Cup on three  अवसरों  , the first time being  in  1975 .
In  1995   और  2000 they had their most successful tournaments to  तिथि  , surprisingly making the  semi-finals  on both  अवसरों  before being beaten  by  England and Australia  क्रमशः  .
वेल्स  failed to qualify for the  2008  World  कप  , being  the  second highest ranked side  नहीं  to do so ,  having  lost  to  Scotland on  अंक  difference over two matches .
In 2008 Australian John Dixon became the new head coach and appointed  ली  Briers as  कप्तान  , having  निभाई  for  वेल्स   चूंकि  1998  .
In recent seasons Wales  have  taken massive strides  अंतर्गत  former player Iestyn  हैरिस  who has  coached  Wales to  वापस  to  वापस  European Cup  सफलताओं  , which culminated  in  a Four  राष्ट्र  appearance  in  2011 .
Cardiomyopathy ( literally `` heart muscle disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the  फलन  of the myocardium ( the heart muscle ) for any reason ,  प्रायः  leading to heart failure ; common symptoms are dyspnea  (  breathlessness  )  and peripheral edema  (  swelling of the legs ) .
People with cardiomyopathy are often at  रिस्क  of  खतरनाक  forms of irregular  दिल  beat and sudden cardiac death .
The most common form  of  cardiomyopathy is dilated  cardiomyopathy  .
Fuck in its literal meaning refers  to  the  अधिनियम  of sexual  मैथुन  .
It is an English  शब्द  that is often  प्रयुक्त  as  a  profanity , either to denote disdain or as an  intensifier   .
The origin of the word is obscure .
it  is usually considered to be first attested to around 1475 ,  लकिन  it may be considerably older .
in   आधुनिक  usage  ,  fuck and its  डेरिवेटिव  ( such as fucker and fucking ) can  be   प्रयुक्त  in the position of a noun , a verb ,  an  adjective or an adverb  .
There are many common phrases which make use  of   the  word , as well as a number of compounds incorporating it , such as motherfucker .
Note : this article  adopts  the  u.S.  Department of Transportation  's   परिभाषा   of  a passenger vehicle , to  औसत  a car or truck , used  लिये  passengers  ,  excluding buses  और  trains .
the  United  राज्य  is home to the  largest  passenger vehicle market of any country  in   the  world .
overall  , there were an  अनुमानित  254.4  लाख  registered passenger vehicles  in  the United States  according   to  a 2007  बिन्दु  study .
This number  ,   साथ  with the average  आयु  of vehicles ,  रै  increased steadily since  1960  ,  indicating   a  growing  क्रमांक  of vehicles per capita .
The Chinese car market , however , is poised  to  soon exceed the United  राज्य  ;  by  the end of  2012  ,  वहीँ  were over 240 million cars on  the  road in  चीन   .
The United States is also home to three large vehicle manufacturers : General Motors , Ford Motor Company and Chrysler , which  have  historically been referred to as the `` Big Three . ''
Chrysler however is no longer among  the  top three ;  लकिन  is number five ,  पीछे  Toyota and Honda .
the  motor car has clearly become  an  integral part of American  जीवन  ,  साथ  vehicles outnumbering licensed drivers  .
Clinical laboratory in a Hospital setting showing several automated analysers .
A medical laboratory or  नैदानिक  laboratory  is  a laboratory where tests are done on clinical  नमूनों  in  अनुक्रम  to get information about the health of a  रोगी   as  pertaining  to  the diagnosis , treatment  ,  and prevention of disease .
In poker , players construct hands  of  five  ताश  according to  predetermined  rules , which vary according  to  which variant of poker is being  निभाई  .
These hands are compared using a  हाथ  ranking system that  is  standard  आरपार  all variants of  पोकर   ,   the  player  साथ  the  highest-ranking  hand  जीतना  that  particular  deal in most variants  of  poker .
In some variants , the lowest-ranking hand can win  or  tie .
These hand rankings  हैं   भी  used in some other card games  ,  and in  पोकर   dice  .
The ranking of a  particular  hand is increased by including multiple cards of the same card rank ,  by  all five cards being from the same suit  ,  or  by  all five cards being of consecutive  रैंक  .
the  relative ranking of the  विभिन्न  hand  श्रेणी  is based on  the  probability of being randomly dealt such a  हाथ  from a well- shuffled deck  .
Bruce Randall Hornsby ( born November 23 , 1954 ) is an American virtuoso ; a singer , pianist , synthesizer ,  accordion  , and dulcimer player , and  songwriter  .
Known  लिये  the spontaneity and creativity of  उसके  live performances , Hornsby draws frequently from classical ,  जैज़  , bluegrass ,  लोक  , Motown , gospel ,  चट्टान  , blues , and jam band musical  परंपराओं  with  उसके  songwriting and  the   seamless  improvisations contained within .
Hornsby 's recordings have been recognised on a number of occasions with  उद्योग  awards  ,  including the Best  नई   कलाकार   ग्रैमी  in 1987 with Bruce Hornsby and the Range  ,  the  बेहतरीन  Bluegrass Recording Grammy in 1990 , and the  बेहतरीन  Pop  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल   ग्रैमी   in  1993 .
Hornsby has  भी   हासिल   मान्यता   लिये   उसके   सोलो  albums  और  performances , his  touring  band Bruce Hornsby and the Noisemakers , his bluegrass project with Ricky Skaggs and  उसके   दिखावे   as  a session- and guest-musician  .
he  also collaborated with Grateful Dead and was a member of the band  इससे  September 1990 to March 1992 , playing at over one hundred shows during  कि  period .
Sugarcane  वृक्षारोपण  in rural Cuba
Agriculture  in  Cuba has played an important part in the  अर्थव्यवस्था   लिये  several hundred  सालो   .
Agriculture  contributes  less than  10  percent to the gross domestic product (  जीडीपी  )  ,  but it employs roughly 20 percent  of  the  working  population .
परिचय  30  प्रतिशत  of the country 's  जमीन  is used for crop cultivation .
The inefficient agricultural  उद्योग  in Cuba has led to the  need  to import large amounts of foods  .
Cuba now imports about 80 % of  the  food it rations to  the  public .
The rationing program accounts for  परिचय   a  third  of  the food energy the average Cuban  consumes  .
overall  , however , Cuba is  निर्भर   on  imports for only 16  %  of its food .
सही
Mega Millions  (  initially called The Big Game  आचमन  Millions as  the  successor of The Big  खेल  ) is an American multi-jurisdictional $  1  lottery game .
the  first  (  The  बिग   खेल  ) Mega  लाखो   आरेखण   थी  in 2002 ( see  नीचे  ) .
The minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot  is  $ 12,000,000 , paid in 26 equal yearly installments (  जबतक  the cash option is chosen )  ;   प्रायः  , the jackpot increases  जब   वहीँ  is  no  top-prize winner .
However , despite no  जैकपॉट  winner for  the  $ 12,000,000 December 18 , 2012 drawing  ,  the jackpot remained at $ 12,000,000 for the drawing to be  आयोजित  on  दिसम्बर  21 .
(  देखिए  below for information on how the game  's  jackpot is funded . )
Reflecting common practice among American  lotteries  ,  the  jackpot is advertised as a nominal  मान  of annual installments  .
a  cash value option ( the usual  चुनाव   )  , when chosen by  a  jackpot  विजेता  ( see below  )  , pays the approximate  उपस्थित  value of the installments .
आचमन   लाखो  currently uses a 5/56 ( white balls ) plus  1/46  ( the  आचमन   बॉल  ) double matrix  to  select its winning numbers .
प्रत्येक  game  लागत  $  1  .
In  43  of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions (  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  is  the  exception ) ,  वहीँ  is an option ,  पुकारा  Megaplier ( such games  हैं  $ 2 each ) where  non-jackpot  prizes are multiplied by 2 ,  3   ,  or 4  .
the  Megaplier was made available  to   सब   आचमन  Millions jurisdictions in January 2011 ; it  began  as  a   टेक्सास  -only option .
Mega Millions is drawn at 10:59 p.m. Eastern time Tuesdays and Fridays , including  छुट्टियाँ  .
Mega  लाखो  is administered by a consortium  of  its 12 original lotteries  और  the  drawings  are  आयोजित  at  wsb-tv  in Atlanta , Georgia .
supervised  by  the Georgia  लॉटरी  .
The largest jackpot in  आचमन  Millions , as  खूब  as  in  American lottery history , was $ 656,000,000 annuitized  (   साथ  a cash option of $ 474,000,000 ) for the March  30  , 2012  आरेखण  in which there were three jackpot-winning tickets ; one  प्रत्येक  in Illinois , Kansas ,  और  Maryland .
सब   तीन  tickets  था   महरूम  claimed as of April 18 , with  प्रत्येक  set of winners choosing the cash option .
is a Japanese manga series created by writer Tsugumi Ohba and  manga  artist Takeshi Obata .
The main character  is   लाइट  Yagami , a high  स्कूल  student who discovers a supernatural notebook , the `` Death Note '' , dropped on  धरती   by  a shinigami ( a god  of  death ) named  ryuk  .
The Death Note grants its  उपयोक्ता  the ability to kill  anyone  whose name and  फेस   वे  know  ,   by  writing the  नाम  in the notebook while picturing their face  .
The series centers  around  Light 's attempt  to   बनाएँ  and rule a world ``  cleansed  of evil '' as `` God '' using the notebook , and the efforts of a detective known  as   l  to  रोकें  him  .
Death Note  थी  first  serialized  in 108 chapters by  shueisha  in the Japanese manga magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump from December 2003 to May 2006 .
The  श्रेणी  was also published  in  tankōbon format in  जापानी   starting   in  May  2004   और  ending in October 2006 with a total of thirteen volumes .
the   दुश्मनी  series aired in Japan  इससे  October 3  ,  2006 , to June 26  ,  2007 .
रचित  of  37  episodes , the anime was developed by  madhouse   और  directed by Tetsuro  araki  .
A light novel based on the series , written by Nisio Isin , was released  in  Japan  .
Additionally  ,  various video games  have   महरूम  published by  कोनामी  for  निन्टेंडो  DS .
the  series  थी  adapted into live-action films  released  in Japan on June 17 , 2006 , November  3  , 2006  ,  and February  2   ,  2008 .
Viz Media licensed the Death  नोट  manga in  उत्तर  America and has published all the twelve volumes from the series , a 13th volume which serves as a ``  रीडर  's guide  ''  , as well as the  लाइट   novels  .
The episodes from the anime  पहला   appeared  in North America as downloadable by IGN  .
Viz later licensed the anime series and it  aired  on Bionix in Canada and  on   कार्टून  Network in the United States .
The live-action films  briefly   निभाई  in certain North American  थिएटर   चूंकि  2008 .
However  ,  none of the  वीडियो  games have  यूँ   दूर  been published in North America or  यूरोपीय  .
Death  नोट  is one of Weekly Shōnen Jumps best-selling  manga  series  of  all time  ,  with sales  over  26.5 million copies .
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of  ``  All Hallows ' Evening `` ) ,  भी  known as All  hallows  '  संध्या   ,  is a  वार्षिक  celebration observed  in  a number of countries on October 31 ,  the  eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating  the  triduum of Hallowmas .
According to many scholars , All  hallows  ' Eve is  a  Christianised feast  originally  influenced by  पश्चिमी  European harvest festivals , and festivals of the dead  साथ   संभावित  pagan  जड़ें   ,  particularly the Celtic Samhain  .
Other scholars  maintain  that it originated independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots .
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also  ज्ञात  as `` guising ``  )  , attending costume parties  ,  carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns , lighting bonfires  ,  apple bobbing  ,  visiting haunted attractions , playing  pranks  ,  telling  scary  कहानियां  , and watching horror films .
New York City taxicabs during  midtown  rush hour in Manhattan
The taxicabs  of  New York City ,  साथ  their distinctive yellow paint , are a widely recognized icon of the city .
taxicabs  are operated by private companies and licensed by the New York  नगर  Taxi and Limousine Commission ( TLC )  .
It also oversees over 40,000 other  for-hire  vehicles ,  सहित   ``   ब्लैक  cars ''  ,  commuter  वैन  and ambulettes .
``  medallion  taxis , '' the  परिचित  yellow cabs ,  हैं  the only vehicles in the city  permitted  to pick up passengers  in  response to  a  street hail .
Schematic cross section of part of leaf , xylem shown  as  red circles at  फिगर  8  .
Xylem is one of the two types of transport  ऊतक  in vascular  पौधे  ( phloem is  the  other ) .
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον  (   xylon  ) , meaning `` wood ''  ;  the best-known xylem tissue is wood  ,  though it  is  found throughout the plant .
इसके  basic function is to transport water ,  लकिन  it also transports some  nutrients  through  the  plant .
u.S.  women suffragists demonstrating for  the  right to vote ,  फ़रवरी  1913 .
Women 's suffrage also known  as  woman suffrage is the right of women to vote and to run for office .
Limited  मतदान  rights were  gained  by women in Sweden , Finland  और  some western U.S. states  in  the late  19th  century .
International organizations were formed to coordinate efforts , especially the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Council of Women  (  1888  )   और   the  International  स्त्री  Suffrage Alliance ( 1904 )  .
In  1893  , New  जीलैंड  , then a self-governing British colony , granted  वयस्क  women the right to vote and  the  self-governing British colony of  दक्षिण  Australia did the same in 1895 , but  भी   permitted  women to  चलाएं   लिये  office  .
Australia federated in 1901 , and women acquired the right to vote and stand in federal elections from 1902 ,  हालांकि   uneven  restrictions on Aboriginal  महिलाओं  voting in  नेशनल  elections  यहूद  not  completely  removed until 1962 .
The  पहला  European country to introduce women 's suffrage was the Grand Duchy of Finland , then part of  the  Russian Empire  ,   जिससे  also  उत्पादित  the  संसार  's first female members of  पार्लियामेंट  in the 1907 parliamentary elections .
Norway followed ,  granting  full women 's suffrage  in   1913  .
In most Western countries  ,  women  's  suffrage came after World I War I I , with some important late  अनुकूलक  being France in 1944  और  Switzerland in  1971  .
Women 's  suffrage   रै  generally been recognized after political campaigns to obtain it were waged .
In many countries  it  was granted before universal suffrage .
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a  सही  under the Convention on the  विलोपन   of  All  फ़ॉर्म  of Discrimination Against Women ,  अपनाया  by the United Nations in  1979   .
The Thirteenth  टेल  (  2006  ) by Diane Setterfield is a gothic suspense novel , the author 's first published book .
यहोवा  's Witnesses  is  a millenarian  restorationist  Christian denomination with nontrinitarian beliefs  पृथक  from mainstream Christianity .Sources for  descriptors  : •  millenarian  :  •  Restorationist : • Christian : • Denomination  :  The organization  रिपोर्ट्स  worldwide membership of over 7.78 million adherents involved  in  evangelism , convention attendance of over  12  million , and  सालाना  Memorial attendance of over 19  लाख  .
वे  are directed  by  the  शासी   देह  of Jehovah 's Witnesses , a group  of  elders in Brooklyn  ,   नई  York , that  establishes  all doctrines .
Jehovah 's Witnesses  '   मान्यताओं  are based on  उनके  interpretations of the Bible and they prefer to use their own translation , the New World Translation  of  the  पावन  Scriptures .
They believe that the destruction of  the  present world  प्रणाली  at  armageddon  is imminent ,  और  that the establishment of God 's kingdom on earth is  the   तभी   समाधान  for  सब  problems faced by mankind  .
The group emerged from the Bible Student movement —founded in the late 1870s by Charles  taze  Russell  साथ  the formation of Zion 's Watch Tower Tract Society —with  significant  organizational and doctrinal changes under the leadership of Joseph Franklin Rutherford .
The name Jehovah  's   गवाह  , based on Isaiah  43:10–12  ,  थी   अपनाया  in 1931 to distinguish themselves from other Bible Student  समूह  and symbolize a break with the legacy of Russell 's traditions .
Jehovah 's Witnesses  हैं  best known for their  door-to-door   उपदेश   ,  distributing literature such  as  The  बुर्ज  and  जाग  !
, and refusing military  सेवा  and blood transfusions  .
They  consider  use of the name Jehovah vital for proper  इबादत  .
वे  reject Trinitarianism , inherent immortality of  the   आत्मा  ,  और  hellfire , which  वे  consider to be unscriptural doctrines  .
They do not observe Christmas , Easter , birthdays , or other holidays and  कस्टम  they consider to have pagan  origins  incompatible  साथ   christianity  .
Adherents commonly refer to their body of beliefs as  ``  the truth '' and consider themselves to be ``  in   the  truth  ''  .
They consider secular society to be morally corrupt  और  under the influence  of   शैतानी  , and  सबसे  limit their  सोशल  interaction with non-Witnesses .
Congregational  अनुशासनात्मक   क्रियाएँ  include disfellowshipping  ,  their term for formal expulsion and shunning .
Baptized individuals who formally leave are considered disassociated  और   हैं  also shunned .
Disfellowshipped and  disassociated  individuals may eventually be reinstated  if  deemed repentant  .
The religion 's position  regarding  conscientious  आपत्ति  to  सैन्य  service and  refusal  to salute national flags has brought it into conflict with some governments .
Consequently , Jehovah 's  गवाह  have been persecuted and  उनके  activities  हैं   बैन  or restricted in some countries .
persistent  legal challenges by Jehovah 's Witnesses have influenced legislation  सम्बन्धित  to civil rights in several countries .
Last Tango  in  Paris  (  ) is a 1972 Franco-Italian romantic  नाटक  film directed by Bernardo Bertolucci which portrays a recent American widower who begins an anonymous sexual relationship with a  यंग  , betrothed Parisian woman .
It stars  मार्लोन   ब्रैंडो   ,   मरिया  Schneider , and Jean-Pierre Léaud .
The film 's raw portrayal  of  sexual violence and emotional turmoil led to international controversy and drew various  स्तर  of government censorship .
The  mpaa  gave the film an X rating upon release in the United States .
After revisions were made to  the  MPAA ratings  कोड  ,  it  was classified  as  an NC-17 in 1997 .
mgm  released a  censored  R-rated cut in 1981 .
the  film  रै  its NC-17  दरजा  for `` some explicit  यौन  content  .  ''
खिड़कियाँ  XP  is  an  ऑपरेटिंग  system produced by Microsoft for use  on  personal computers , including home and  कारोबार  desktops , laptops  और   मीडिया  centers .
First  released   to   कंप्यूटर  manufacturers on August 24 , 2001 , it is the second most popular  संस्करण  of Windows , based on installed  उपयोक्ता  base .
The  नाम  ``  xp  '' is short  लिये   ``  eXPerience '' , highlighting the enhanced  उपयोक्ता  experience .
Windows XP  ,   the  successor  to  Windows 2000 and Windows ME , was the first consumer-oriented operating system produced by Microsoft to be  निर्मित  on the Windows NT kernel .
Windows  xp  was released  विश्वव्यापी  for retail  बिक्री  on October 25 , 2001 , and over 400  लाख  copies were in use  in  January 2006  .
It was succeeded by Windows Vista  in  January  2007  .
Direct OEM  और   खुदरा  sales of Windows XP ceased  on  June 30 , 2008 .
Microsoft continued to sell Windows XP through  उनके  System Builders ( smaller OEMs who sell assembled computers )  कार्यक्रम   जबतक  January 31 , 2009 .
On April  10  , 2012 , Microsoft reaffirmed that  विस्तारित  support for Windows XP and Office 2003 would end on  अप्रैल  8 , 2014 and suggested that administrators begin preparing  to  migrate to  a  newer  os  .
The NT -based versions of Windows ,  जिससे  are programmed in C  ,  C++ , and assembly , are known for their improved  स्थिरता  and efficiency over the 9x versions of  microsoft  Windows .
Windows XP presented a  significantly  redesigned graphical  उपयोक्ता  interface , a change  microsoft  promoted as more user-friendly than previous versions of Windows .
in  an attempt to further ameliorate the `` DLL hell  ``   कि  plagued the past  संस्करण  of Windows , improved side-by-side assembly technology in  खिड़कियाँ   xp  allows side-by-side installation  ,  registration  और  servicing of  अनेक  versions of globally shared  तन्त्र  components in  पूरा  isolation .
It is also the first  संस्करण  of Windows to use  उत्पाद  activation to combat illegal copying  .
During Windows XP 's development , the project  थी  codenamed ``  whistler   ''   ,  after Whistler , British  कोलंबिया  , as many Microsoft employees skied at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort .
According to web  analytics  data  उत्पन्न  by Net Applications , Windows  xp   थी  the  सबसे  widely used operating  प्रणाली   जबतक  August 2012 ,  जब   खिड़कियाँ   7  overtook it .
, Windows XP market share is at 38.99 % ,  having  decreased  लगभग  every month since at least November 2007 , the  पहला  month for which statistics are publicly available from Net  अनुप्रयोग  .
`` Por  ऊना  Cabeza '' is an Argentine tango with  म्यूज़िक  and lyrics written  in  1935 by Carlos Gardel and Alfredo Le Pera respectively .
The  नाम   is  a  स्पेनी  horse-racing  phrase   अर्थ  ``  by   a  head '' , which refers to  a  horse winning a race  by  the length of  एक  head .
The  गीत  speak of a compulsive  horse-track  gambler who compares his addiction  लिये  horses  साथ  his attraction to  महिलाओं  .
Alfredo Le Pera  थी  a Brazilian from São Paulo , a much Italian-influenced  क्षेत्रफल  in Brazil , and also the birthplace of Zequinha de Abreu , composer of Tico-Tico  no  Fubá .
le  Pera and Gardel died in an airplane crash  in  Medellín , ( Colombia ) , on June 24 ,  1935  .
Por una Cabeza
The tango has since been performed by numerous tango orchestras .
Tango scenes  साथ   ``  Por una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 )  ,  Scent of a Woman ( 1992  )  , Schindler 's List ( 1993  )  , True  झूठ  ( 1994 ) , Titanic ( 1996 ) , Bad Santa ( Uncut  संस्करण  , 2003 ) , All the King 's Men ( 2006  )  , Planet 51 (  2009  ) , episode 37 of  nip/tuck  ( 2003–2010  )  , episode  9  of South Korean drama series  मीठी  Spy ( 2005–08 ) , the beginning and ending credits of the South Korean drama broadcast I 'm  sorry  , I Love You (  2004  ) , and  the   एपीसोड  ``  bas  the  खरगोश  Hole ``  (  2007 ) .
In  the  movie Frida ( Salma Hayek , 2002 ) , Gardel is heard singing it  on  a  रेडियो  .
It is also quoted in David  डेल  Tredici  's  `` Good  न्यूज   !
Nilda is Back ''  (  from the song cycle Miz  inez  Sez ) .
In Scent of a Woman (  1992   )  , the tango is performed by the ``  the  Tango Project '' , who actually appear in the dancing scene  अभिनीत   al  Pacino  (  the recording  प्रयुक्त   is  available on  एक  of  उनके  CD albums )  .
John Williams arranged a version of the  टुकड़ा  that appears on the album `` Cinema Serenade '' with the  सारंगी  solo performed by Itzhak Perlman .
Perlman and Williams ( conducting ) have  भी   performed  the piece together  in   सजीव  concerts .
in  2012 a dance version was released by  the  group ``  da  Carrera '' featuring the original vocal recording by Carlos Gardel  .
The baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is one of the  देह   's  homeostatic mechanisms for  maintaining   रक्त  pressure .
It  provides  a negative feedback loop in which an elevated blood pressure reflexively causes heart rate  to  decrease  इसलिए  causing blood pressure  to   घटी  ; likewise , decreased  रक्त  pressure activates the baroreflex , causing heart rate to increase thus causing an increase in blood  दबाव  .
The system relies on specialized neurons , known as baroreceptors , in  the  aortic arch , carotid sinuses ,  और  elsewhere to  मॉनिटर  changes in  रक्त  pressure and relay them to the brainstem .
Subsequent  परिवर्तन   in  blood pressure are mediated by the  autonomic  nervous system .
Atrial  natriuretic  peptide forms a  समानांतर  negative feedback  लूप  in an endocrinological  कंट्रास्ट  to the renin-angiotensin system .
The Loma  prieta  earthquake , also known as the Quake of '89 and the World Series Earthquake , was a major earthquake that struck the San Francisco  खाड़ी  Area of California on October 17 , 1989 , at 5:04 pm local time  .
Caused by a slip along  the  San Andreas Fault , the quake lasted 10–15 seconds and  measured  6.9 on  दोनो  the moment magnitude scale (  surface-wave  magnitude 7.1 ) and on the open-ended Richter Scale  .
The  भूकंप  killed 63 people throughout northern California , injured 3,757 and left some  3,000–12,000  people homeless .
The earthquake occurred during  the  warm-up practice for  the   तीसरा   खेल  of  the   1989  World Series ,  featuring   दोनो   of   the  Bay Area  's  Major League Baseball teams  ,  the Oakland  एथलेटिक्स   और   the  San Francisco Giants .
Because of game-related sports coverage , this  थी  the first major earthquake in the United States to have its  आरंभिक   धक्का  broadcast live on television  .
Pawn in the standard  staunton   पैटर्न
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is  the  most numerous  और  in most circumstances  the  weakest piece in the game of chess ,  historically  representing infantry or , more particularly , armed peasants or  pikemen  .
In chess , each player begins the  खेल  with eight pawns ,  एक   on  each square of the rank  तत्काल   in  front of  the  other pieces .
(   in  algebraic notation , the white pawns start on a2 ,  b2  ,  c2  , ... , h2 ,  जबकि  black pawns start on a7 , b7 , c7 ,  ...  , h7  .  )
Individual pawns are referred to by the file on which they stand  .
लिये  example , one speaks of `` White 's f-pawn ''  or  `` Black 's  b-pawn  ''  ,  or less commonly  (  using descriptive notation  )  , `` White 's king 's bishop pawn  ''  or `` Black 's queen 's  नाईट  pawn  ''   .
it   is  also common to  refer  to a rook pawn  ,  meaning any  साहूकार  on the a- or  h-file  , a knight  साहूकार  (  on  the b- or g-file ) ,  a  bishop pawn (  on  the  c-  or f-file  )  , a queen pawn ( on the  d-file   )  , a king pawn  (  on the  e-file  ) ,  और  a central pawn ( on either  the  d- or  e-file  ) .
The military forces of the world  have  differing approaches to  the   enlistment  of homosexual ( gay and lesbian ) and bisexual individuals  .
The armed forces of most developed  देशों  have  अभी  removed policies excluding  non-heterosexual  individuals  (  with strict  नीतियों  on sexual harassment ) .
Nations that permit gay people to serve openly in the military  शामिल  the 4 of the 5  सदस्यों  of the UN  सुरक्षा  Council ( United  राज्य  ,  संयुक्त   किंगडम   ,   फ़्रांस   ,  and Russia  )   ,  the Republic of  चीन  ( Taiwan ) , Australia ,  इसराईल  , South Africa , Argentina , and all  नाटो   सदस्यों  excluding Turkey .
Hydrogen production is  the  family of industrial methods for generating hydrogen .
फिलहाल  the dominant technology for direct production  is  steam reforming  इससे  hydrocarbons .
अनेक  other  विधि  are known including electrolysis and thermolysis .
In 2006 , the United States was estimated to have a production capacity of 11 million tonnes of hydrogen .
5   लाख  tonnes of hydrogen  यहूद   खपत  on-site in oil refining  ,  and in the production of ammonia ( Haber process ) and methanol ( reduction of carbon  मोनोऑक्साइड  ) .
0.4  million tonnes were an incidental  by-product  of the chlor-alkali  प्रक्रम  .
हाइड्रोजन  production is an  अनुमानित  $ 100  अरब   उद्योग  .
a  basis point ( often denoted as bp , colloquially referred to in the plural as `` bips  ''   ,  also  ज्ञात  as  a  ``  बीप  '' ) is a unit  बराबर  to one hundredth of a percentage  पाइंट  , or one part per ten thousand ,  1/10000  .
the  same  ईकाई  is also ( rarely ) called a permyriad , literally meaning  'for  ( every  )  myriad ( ten thousand ) ' ,  और   in  that  कॉन्टेक्स्ट  is written with which looks like a percent sign ( % ) with  दो  extra zeroes at  the  end ( like a stylized form  of  the four  zeros   in  the denominator , although it  originates  as  a  natural  एक्सटेंशन  of the percent ( % ) and  permille  ( ‰  )   लक्षण  ) .
A basis point is defined  as:
1 basis point = 1 permyriad =  एक  one-hundredth percent
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 %  =  0.1‰ =  10−4   =  = 0.0001
1   %  =  100  bp  =  100
Basis points are  प्रयुक्त   as  a convenient unit of measurement  in  contexts where  प्रतिशत  differences of  कम   than  1 % are discussed .
The most common example is interest rates , where  मतभेद  in interest rates of less than 1 %  प्रति  year are usually  सार्थक   to  talk  परिचय  .
लिये   उदाहरण  , a difference of  0.10   प्रतिशत  points is equivalent  to  a change of  10  basis points ( e.g . a  4.67  % rate increases by  10  basis points to  4.77  % )  .
Like percentage points , basis points  avoid   the  ambiguity  between  relative  और   निरपेक्ष  discussions about interest rates by dealing  तभी  with the absolute change  in  numeric value of a rate .
For example , if a  रपट  says there has been  a  `` 1 % increase '' from a  10   %  interest rate ,  इस  could refer to an increase either from 10 % to 10.1 % ( relative  ,   1  %  of   10  % )  ,  or from  10  % to 11 % (  निरपेक्ष  , 1 % plus 10  %  ) .
if  , however , the report says there  रै  been a `` 10 basis point increase '' from a 10  %  interest rate , then we know that the interest rate of 10 % has increased by 0.10 % ( the  निरपेक्ष  change ) to a 10.1 %  रेट  .
It is  आम  practice in the  वित्तीय  industry to use  आधार  points to  denote  a rate change in a financial instrument  ,  or the difference ( spread ) between two interest rates , including the yields of fixed-income securities .
Since certain  लोन  and bonds may commonly be quoted in relation to some index or underlying security , they will often be quoted as  a  spread over ( or under ) the index .
For  उदाहरण  , a loan that bears interest of 0.50 % per annum above the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) is said to be  50   आधार  points  over  LIBOR ,  जिससे  is commonly expressed as `` L+50bps '' or simply `` L+50 ''  .
The term `` basis  पाइंट  '' has its  origins  in trading the  ``  basis '' or the spread between two interest rates .
चूंकि  the  आधार  is usually small ,  ये  are quoted multiplied up  by  10000 , and hence a `` full point  ''  movement in  the  `` basis '' is  a  basis point .
Contrast with  pips   in  FX forward markets .
the  relationship between  प्रतिशत  changes and  आधार  points can be summarized  as  follows : 1 percentage  पाइंट  change = 100 basis  अंक  , and 0.01 percentage  अंक  = 1 basis point .
So , a bond whose yield increases from 5  %  to 5.5  %  is  कहा  to increase by  50  basis  अंक  ;  or  interest rates  कि   have  risen 1 percentage point are said  to  have increased  by   100  basis points .
The British Royal Family is  the  group of close relatives of the  monarch  of the United Kingdom .
the  term is also commonly applied to the same group of people  जो  are the relations of the monarch in  उसके  or his role  as  sovereign  of  any of the  अन्य   राष्ट्रमंडल  realms , thus sometimes at variance with official national terms for the family .
Members of the Royal Family belong to  ,  either by  जनम  or marriage ,  the  House  of  Windsor , since 1917 , when George  v  changed  the  name of the royal house from  saxe-coburg  and Gotha  .
This decision was primarily taken because Britain  और  her Empire were at  युद्ध  with Germany and given  the  British Royal Family 's strong German  ancestry  ;  it   थी  felt that its public  चित्र  could be improved by  चुनना  a more British  हाउस  name .
the  new name  चुनी   ,  Windsor , had absolutely no  कनेक्शन  other than  as   the   नाम  of  the  castle which was and  continues  to be a royal residence .
Although in the United Kingdom there is  no  strict legal or formal definition  of  who is  or  is not a member of the Royal  परिवार   ,  and different lists will include  अलग  people , those carrying the style Her or His  majesty  ( HM  )  , or Her or His Royal Highness ( HRH )  हैं  always considered members ,  जिससे  usually  परिणाम  in the  अनुप्रयोग  of the term to the monarch  ,  the consort of the monarch  ,   the  widowed  consorts  of previous monarchs , the children of the  monarch  and  पिछला   monarchs  , the male-line grandchildren of the monarch and previous monarchs , and the  spouses   और  the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's  बेटे  and male-line grandsons  .
on  30 November 1917 , King George V issued Letters Patent defining who are members of the Royal Family  ;  the  टेक्स्ट  of the notice from the  लंदन  Gazette is as follows:
In 1996 , Her Majesty  the   महारानी  modified these Letters Patent , as was evidenced by  इस  Notice from the London Gazette:
In 2013  अक्षर   पेटेंट   यहूद  issued to  extend  a title and a style borne by  सदस्यों   of  the Royal Family to additional persons to be  born  ,  evidenced  by  इस  Notice  इससे  the  लंदन  Gazette:
सदस्यों  and relatives of the British  royal  Family historically represented the monarch in various  स्थान   throughout  the  अंग्रेजों   साम्राज्य  , sometimes for extended periods  as  viceroys ,  or  for specific  ceremonies  or events  .
आज  ,  वे  often perform  ceremonial  and social duties throughout  the  United  किंगडम  and  विदेश  on behalf of the United Kingdom .
Aside from  the  monarch ,  उनके  only  संवैधानिक  role in the affairs of government is to serve , if eligible and when appointed by  अक्षर  patent , as  a  Counsellor  of   राज्य  , two  or  more of  जिसको  exercise the authority  of   the  Crown  (  within stipulated limits )  in   the  indisposal or absence  इससे  the British realm of the  monarch  .
In the other realms  of  the Commonwealth royalty do not serve as Counsellors  of  State  .
However in  प्रत्येक  such realm  the  monarch 's family members may act  on  behalf of  ,  are funded by , and represent  the  sovereign of that particular state  ,  and not the United Kingdom .
The Queen , her consort , her children and grandchildren  ,  as well as  सब  former  अधिपति  ' children and grandchildren hold places in the first sections of the  आधिकारिक  orders of precedence in England  और  Wales , Scotland , and Northern Ireland  .
Wives of the said  आनंद   उनके  husbands  '   पूर्वता  , and husbands of  राजकुमारियों   हैं  unofficially but  habitually  placed with their wives  as  well .
However , the Queen changed the private order of precedence in  the  Royal Family in favour of  राजकुमारियों  Anne and Alexandra  ,   जो   henceforth  take  निजी  precedence  over  the Duchess  of  Cornwall , who is otherwise  the  realm 's  उच्चतम  ranking woman after  the  Queen herself  .
वो  did not  alter  the  सापेक्ष  precedence of other born-princesses  ,  such as  the  daughters  of  her younger  बेटे  .
Haiti ( ; Haitian Creole Ayiti )  ,   officially  the  गणतंत्र  of Haiti (  ;  ) , is a Caribbean country  .
it  occupies the western , smaller portion of the  द्वीप  of Hispaniola  ,  in the Greater  antillean  archipelago  ,  which  it   साझा  with the Dominican Republic  .
ayiti  (  जमीन  of high  kyu  ) was the indigenous Taíno or Amerindian  नाम  for the island .
The country 's highest point  is  Pic la Selle ,  at   .
The  कुल  area of Haiti is  और  its capital is  port-au-prince  .
Haitian Creole and French  हैं  the official  भाषाएं  .
Haiti 's regional  ,  historical  ,  and ethno-linguistic position is unique for several reasons .
It was the first independent nation  of  Latin America and the  caribbean   ,  the first black -led republic in the world , and the second republic in  the   americas  when it  gained  independence in 1804 as part of a  कामयाब  slave revolution lasting nearly a decade .
In 2012  ,  Haiti announced its  इरादे  to seek associate membership status  in  the African Union .
हैती  is the most  populous  of the predominantly Francophone independent nations in the  americas   .
It is one of only two  स्वतंत्र   राष्ट्र  in  the   americas  ( along  साथ  Canada ) to  designate  French as an official language ; the other French-speaking areas are all overseas départements , or  collectivités  , of France .
Haiti is  the  most populous full member-state of the Caribbean Community  (  CARICOM ) .
It is  the  poorest country in the Americas  as  measured  by  the Human Development Index .
राजनैतिक  violence has occurred regularly throughout  इसके  history , leading to government  अस्थिरता  .
Most recently  ,  in February 2004 , a coup d'état originating  in  the  उत्तर  of the  देश   मजबूर   the  resignation and exile of  अध्यक्ष  Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
a  provisional government took control with  सुरक्षा  provided by the United Nations Stabilization  मिशन  in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ) .
Michel Martelly , the  वर्तमान  president , was  निर्वाचित   in  the  haitian   सामान्य   चुनाव  , 2011 .
The island has had a history of destructive earthquakes .
A  7.0  magnitude earthquake struck  हैती  on  12  January 2010  और  devastated Port-au-Prince .
The highest reliable  मौत  count was estimated at 220,000 .
Haitian  सरकारी   estimates   यहूद  higher .
The Presidential  राजमहल  , Parliament and many other important structures  यहूद  destroyed , along with countless homes and businesses , leaving  सैंकड़ों   of  thousands of  लोगों  homeless .
The country has yet to recover from the 2010 earthquake  (  and subsequent incidents ) due to both the severity of the damage Haiti  endured   in  2010 ,  as  well as a government that was  अप्रभावी  well  पहले  the earthquake .
संयुक्त   राज्य  aid organizations have donated $ 2 billion  .
Combined with other international donations , these funds are intended to contribute to the rebuilding of the country .
The Bloody Beetroots is the pseudonym of Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo , the Italian electro house and dance-punk music producer , DJ and photographer .
The Bloody Beetroots  is  well-known for the black Venom mask he  wears  during performances  .
in  fact , the  तभी   identifying  public feature of Rifo is  the  year  ``  1977 '' tattooed across his chest , which is both  the   साल  that the producer and punk-rock was born .
``  The Bloody  beetroots  DJ set '' contains Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo  और  Tommy Tea  .
A Motorola  सलाहकार   alphanumeric  pager used in Brazil in the 1990s , operated by Teletrim
A pager is a wireless telecommunications device that receives and displays numeric or  टेक्स्ट  messages , or receives and announces voice messages .
One-way  pagers  can only receive messages , while  जवाब  pagers and  two-way  pagers can also acknowledge  ,  reply to ,  और  originate messages using an  आतंरिक  transmitter .
Pagers operate as part  of  a paging system which  शामिल  one or more  फिक्स्ड  transmitters ( or  in  the case of response pagers and two-way pagers  ,  one or  अधिक  base stations ) , as well  as  a number of pagers carried by mobile users .
These systems can range  इससे  a  रेस्तरां  system with a single low-power  ट्रांसमीटर   ,  to  a  nationwide system with thousands of high-power base stations  .
One of the first  व्यावहारिक  paging  सेवाएं  was launched in 1950  लिये  physicians in the New York City area .
Physicians  सशुल्क  US $  12  per month for  the  service  और  carried  a  ( 6 oz ) pager that would receive phone messages within (  25  mi ) of a  सिंगल  transmitter tower .
The system was manufactured by the  reevesound   कम्पनी  and  संचालित   by  Telanswerphone  .
In 1960 ,  जॉन   फ्रांसिस   मिशेल  combined elements  of   मोटोरोला  's Walkie Talkie and automobile radio technologies  to  create the first  transistorized  pager , and from  इस  point ,  paging  technology continued to  अग्रिम   ,  and pager  अपनाना  continued to  विस्तार  , until the early 1990s  .
However , by the mid-1990s , as cellular technologies  became  cheaper and more widely available , advanced services began to displace paging as a  वाणिज्यिक  product .
आज  , pagers exist  largely   as  niche  उत्पाद   ,   ढूंढना   preferential  use in  अनुप्रयोग  such as  अस्पताल  , public safety , and retail locations  जहाँ   उनके  simplicity , high reliability , and low cost represent significant advantages .
Reevesville is a town  in  Dorchester County , South Carolina , United States  .
The population was  196  at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
As defined by  the  U.S. Office of Management and  बजट  , and used by the U.S. Census  ब्यूरो  for statistical purposes only , Reevesville  is  included within the Charleston-North Charleston-Summerville metropolitan area .
frida  Kahlo de Rivera ( born  magdalena  Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderón ; July 6  ,  1907 –  जुलाई  13 ,  1954  ) was  a  Mexican painter , born in Coyoacán , who is best known for her self-portraits .
Kahlo 's life began and ended  in  Mexico City  ,  in her  घर  known as the Blue House .
She gave her  जनम  date as July 7 , 1910  ,  but her birth certificate shows July 6 , 1907  .
Kahlo had allegedly wanted  the  year of her birth to  coincide  with  the  year of  the  beginning of the Mexican revolution so that her life would begin with  the  birth of modern  मैक्सिको  .
Her work  रै  been celebrated in Mexico as emblematic of  नेशनल  and  स्वदेशी  tradition , and by feminists for its uncompromising depiction of the female experience and form .
Mexican culture  और  Amerindian cultural tradition are important in her work , which has  महरूम  sometimes characterized  as  Naïve art or folk art  .
Her work has also been  वर्णित   as  ``  surrealist  '' , and in  1938  André Breton ,  प्रिंसिपल   initiator  of the  surrealist  movement , described Kahlo 's art  as   a  `` ribbon around a  बमबारी   ''  .
Kahlo had a volatile  विवाह  with  the  famous Mexican artist  डिएगो  Rivera  .
She suffered lifelong health problems .
Many of her health  समस्याएं  were the result of  a  traffic accident she survived as a teenager .
Recovering from her injuries isolated her from  अन्य  people and this isolation influenced her works , many of which are self-portraits  of  one sort or  another   .
kahlo  suggested  ,  `` I paint myself because  i  am  so  often alone  और  because I am the subject I know best . ''
वो   भी  stated , `` I was born  a   कुतिया  .
I was  born  a painter .  ''
300px
Theresienwiese  on  the day before Oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day  पर्व   celebrating  beer held annually in Munich , Bavaria  ,  Germany , running  इससे   लेट  September to the first  वीकेंड  in October .
It is one of  the  most famous events  in  Germany and is the world  's  largest fair , with more than  6  million  लोगों  from around the  संसार  attending the event every year .
To the locals , it  is   नहीं  called Oktoberfest , but  ``  die Wiesn '' ,  बाद   the  colloquial name of  the   fairgrounds  themselves .
The Oktoberfest  is  an  महत्वपूर्ण  part of  bar  culture , having been held since  1810  .
Other cities across the world also hold Oktoberfest celebrations , modeled after the original Munich event  .
The Munich Oktoberfest originally took place during the sixteen days  up  to ,  और  including , the first Sunday in October .
In  1994   ,  the  अनुसूची  was modified  in  response to  जर्मनी  reunification  so  that  if  the first Sunday  in  October falls on the 1st or 2nd , then  the  festival would go  on  until October 3 ( German  एकता  Day  )  .
Thus , the festival is now  17  days when the first Sunday is  अक्तूबर  2 and 18  दिनों  when it  is   अक्तूबर   1  .
In 2010  ,  the  पर्व  lasted until the first Monday  in  October , to mark  the  anniversary  of  the event .
The festival is held in an area named the Theresienwiese ( field , or meadow , of Therese ) ,  प्रायः  called Wiesn  लिये  short , located near Munich 's center .
Large quantities  of  Oktoberfest Beer are consumed , with almost 7  लाख  liters served during the  16  day festival  in  2007 .
Visitors may also enjoy a wide variety of traditional food such as Hendl ( chicken ) , Schweinebraten ( roast pork ) , Schweinshaxe ( grilled ham hock  )  , Steckerlfisch ( grilled fish on a stick  )  , Würstl ( sausages  )  along with Brezeln (  pretzel  ) , Knödel ( potato or bread dumplings  )  , Käsespätzle (  चीज  noodles ) , Reiberdatschi ( potato pancakes ) ,  sauerkraut  or Rotkohl/Blaukraut ( red cabbage ) along with  ऐसे  Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter spread  )  and Weisswurst (  a  white sausage  )  .
A platter with cheese and garnishes
Wheels of Gouda
Cheese is  a  generic term for a diverse group of milk-based food products  .
Cheese is produced in  wide-ranging  flavors ,  बनावट  , and forms .
Cheese consists of  प्रोटीन  and fat from milk , usually the milk of  गायों  ,  भैंस   ,  goats ,  or  sheep .
It is produced by coagulation of the milk protein  casein  .
Typically , the milk is acidified and addition  of  the enzyme  rennet   कल्याणकारी  coagulation .
The solids are separated and pressed into final form .
Some cheeses have molds on the rind or throughout .
Most cheeses  melt  at cooking temperature  .
Hundreds of types  of  cheese from various  देशों  are produced .
Their  शैलियाँ  ,  बनावट  and flavors depend on  the  origin  of  the  मिल्क   (  including the  एनिमल  's diet )  ,   whether  they  have   महरूम  pasteurized , the butterfat  सामग्री  , the bacteria and mold , the processing ,  और  aging .
Herbs  ,  spices  ,  or wood smoke may be used as flavoring agents .
The yellow to  रेड  color of  अनेक  cheeses ,  ऐसे  as  रेड  Leicester  ,  is normally formed from adding  annatto  .
For a  few   cheeses   ,  the milk is curdled by adding acids such as vinegar or lemon juice .
Most cheeses are acidified to  a  lesser  उपाधि  by  जीवाणु  , which turn milk sugars into  लैक्टिक  acid ,  तब   the  addition of rennet completes the curdling .
Vegetarian alternatives to rennet are  उपलब्धियाँ  ; most are produced by fermentation  of  the fungus Mucor miehei , but others have  महरूम  extracted from  विभिन्न  species  of   the  Cynara thistle family .
Cheese is valued for its  पोर्टेबिलिटी   ,  long life  ,  and high content  of  fat ,  प्रोटीन  , calcium  ,  and phosphorus  .
Cheese is  अधिक  compact and has a longer shelf life than milk ,  हालांकि  how long  a   चीज   होगा  keep may  निर्भर  on the type of cheese  ;  labels on packets of cheese often claim that a cheese  चाहिए  be consumed within three to five days of  खोलने   .
Generally  बोलना  ,  मुश्किल  cheeses last longer than soft cheeses , such  as  Brie  or  goat 's milk cheese .
Cheesemakers  निकट  a dairy region may benefit  इससे  fresher , lower-priced milk  ,  and lower  शिपिंग  costs .
The long storage life of some cheese , especially if it is encased  in  a protective  rind   ,   allows  selling  जब   बाज़ार  are favorable .
अतिरिक्त   संघटक  may be added  to  some  cheeses  , such as  ब्लैक  peppers ,  लहसुन  , chives or cranberries  .
A specialist seller  of  cheese is sometimes  ज्ञात  as a cheesemonger  .
To  become   an   विशेषज्ञ  in this field  ,   जैसे   वाइन   or  cooking , requires  कुछ  formal education and years  of   चख  and hands-on experience .
This position is  typically  responsible for all aspects of the cheese inventory ; selecting the  चीज   मेनू   ,   खरीदना  , receiving , storage , and ripening .
Legal citation signals are  a  set of brief abbreviated phrases  or  words used  to   clarify  the authority  or  significance of a legal citation as  it  relates to a proposition .
Signals help  a  reader  जल्दी  discern meaning or usefulness of a particular reference when the reference itself does not  provide  adequate information .
Most citation signals are placed in front of the citation to which they apply .
For example ,  in   the  paragraph When  लिखने  a legal argument , it  is  important to refer to primary sources .
To  assist  readers in locating these  स्त्रोत  ,  it  is desirable to use a standardized citation format .
See generally Harvard Law Review Association  ,  The  bluebook  : A Uniform System of Citation ( 18th ed . 2005 ) .
Note ,  however   ,   कि  some courts may  आवश्यकता  any legal papers that  हैं  submitted  to  them  to  conform to a different citation format  .
the  सिग्नल  is the phrase ``  देखिए  generally , '' which indicates that the citation ``  the  Bluebook : A  वर्दी  System of Citation ( 18th  ed  . 2005 ) '' provides general background information on the topic .
Neil  एल्डन  Armstrong ( August 5 , 1930 – August 25  ,  2012 )  थी  an  अमरीकी   astronaut  and the first person to walk on the Moon .
He was also an  aerospace  engineer , naval aviator ,  परीक्षण   पायलट  , and university professor  .
Before becoming an astronaut , Armstrong  थी  an officer  in   the  U.S. Navy and served in the Korean War .
After the  युद्ध  ,  he   अर्जित  his bachelor 's  उपाधि  at Purdue University  और  served as  a  test pilot at  the  National Advisory Committee for  aeronautics  High-Speed Flight Station , now known  as  the Dryden Flight Research Center ,  जहाँ  he logged  over  900 flights  .
He later  समाप्त  graduate  अध्ययन  at the University of Southern California .
A participant in the U.S. Air Force 's Man in  स्पेस  Soonest and X-20 Dyna-Soar  इंसान   spaceflight  programs  ,   आर्मस्ट्रांग   joined  the NASA Astronaut Corps in 1962  .
He made his  पहला  space  उड़ान  , as command  पायलट  of Gemini 8 , in 1966 , becoming  नासा  's first civilian astronaut to fly  in   स्पेस  .
On this mission , he performed the first docking of two spacecraft , with pilot  दाउद  Scott .
Armstrong 's second and last spaceflight was as  मिशन  commander of  the  Apollo 11 moon landing  ,  in July 1969 .
On this mission  ,  Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin descended  to  the  चंद्र  surface and spent two and a  हाफ   घंटों  exploring  ,   जबकि  Michael  कॉलिन्स  remained in lunar orbit  in  the Command  मोड्यूल  .
Along  साथ  Collins and Aldrin  ,  Armstrong  थी   awarded  the Presidential  पदक  of Freedom by President  रिचर्ड  Nixon ; in 1978  ,  President Jimmy Carter presented Armstrong the Congressional Space Medal of Honor in 1978 ; he and  उसके  former  crewmates  received  the  Congressional  सुनहरा   पदक  in 2009  .
Armstrong died  in  Cincinnati , Ohio , on August 25 ,  2012  , at the age of 82 , after complications  इससे  coronary artery bypass surgery .
Secretariat  (   कूच   30  , 1970 – October  4  , 1989 )  थी  an American Thoroughbred racehorse that  in   1973  became  the  first U.S . Triple Crown champion in 25 years .
He set race  रिकॉर्ड  in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ) , the Preakness Stakes  (  1:53 ) , and the Belmont  stakes  (  2:24  ) — records that still stand today .
He is  माना  to  be  one of  the  greatest  thoroughbreds   of  all time .
In 1999 , ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th century ,  the  highest ranking racehorse on the list  url_http  .
He ranked  दूसरी  behind Man o '  युद्ध  in The Blood-Horse 's List  of   the  Top  100   u.S.  Racehorses of  the  20th Century .
सचिवालय  was sired by Bold Ruler out of Somethingroyal  ,   by  Princequillo .
He was foaled  at  The Meadow in Caroline County , Virginia  .
Like  उसके  famous predecessor Man o ' War ,  सचिवालय  was a  विशाल   शाहबलूत  colt  और  was given the same  उपनाम  , `` Big  रेड  .  ''
Secretariat  's   grandsire  , Nasrullah  ,  is also the  great-great-grandsire  of 1977  ट्रिपल  Crown winner Seattle Slew .
स्वामित्व   by  Penny Chenery  ,  he was trained by Lucien  laurin  and mainly ridden by Canadian jockey  रॉन   turcotte  ,  साथ   साथ  apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ) , and  दिग्गज  Eddie Maple ( last race ) .
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's  ब्लू  and  श्वेत  checkered colors and his groom  थी  Eddie  स्वेद   .
Secretariat stood  लगभग  tall , and weighed , with a 75-inch girth , in his racing  प्रधान   .
Madrid ( , ) is the capital and largest city of Spain .
the  population  of  the city  is  roughly 3.3  लाख  and the entire  जनसांख्यिकी  of the Madrid metropolitan area is  गणना  to be  around   6.5   लाख  .
It  is  the third-largest city  in  the European  संघ  , after London and Berlin ,  और  its metropolitan area is the third-largest in  the  European  संघ  after London  और  Paris .
The  नगर  spans a  कुल  of .
the  city is located on  the  Manzanares river in the centre of  दोनो  the  देश  and the Community of  मैड्रिड  ( which comprises the city of Madrid ,  इसके  conurbation and extended  उपनगरों   और  villages ) ;  इस  community  is  bordered by the autonomous communities of Castile and León  और  Castile-La Mancha .
As the capital city of Spain , seat  of  government , and residence of the Spanish  monarch  , Madrid is also  the   राजनैतिक  ,  आर्थिक  and  सांस्कृतिक   केन्द्र  of Spain  .
The current mayor is Ana Botella  इससे  the People  's   पार्टी  ( PP ) .
The Madrid urban agglomeration  रै  the third-largest GDP  in   the  European Union  और  its influences in  राजनीती  ,  शिक्षा  ,  entertainment  , environment , media  ,   फ़ैशन  , science , culture  ,  and the  कला  all contribute  to  its status as one of the world  's  major  वैश्विक   शहरों  .
Due to its economic output  ,  high  मानक   of  living  ,  and market size , Madrid  is  considered the major financial  केन्द्र   of  Southern Europe and the Iberian Peninsula ; it hosts  the  head offices of the vast majority of the major  स्पेनी  companies , such as Telefónica , Iberia or  repsol  .
Madrid is the most touristic  नगर   of  Spain , the fourth-most  touristic  of the continent  ,  and the seventh most visited city in the world according  to  Forbes .
Is  the  10th most livable city in the world according to Monocle magazine , in  इसके  2010 index  .
Madrid also ranks among the 12  greenest  European cities in 2010. < ref name=  ''  http : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > Madrid is currently a Candidate City for the  2020   गर्मियाँ  Olympics .
Madrid houses the  मुख्यालय  of the World Tourism Organization ( WTO )  ,   belonging  to the United  राष्ट्र  Organization ( UN ) , the  segib   ,  the Organization  of  Ibero-American States ( OEI ) ,  और  the Public Interest Oversight  फलक  ( PIOB ) .
It  भी  hosts  प्रमुख  international institutions regulators  of  Spanish : the Standing  कमेटी  of the Association of Spanish  भाषा   अकादमियों  , headquarters of the Royal Spanish Academy (  rae  )  ,  the Cervantes Institute and the Foundation of Urgent Spanish ( Fundéu ) .
Madrid organizes fairs  as   fitur  ,  आरको  , SIMO TCI and the Cibeles Madrid Fashion Week .
While Madrid possesses  a  modern infrastructure , it has preserved the  dekh  and  महसूस   of  many of  इसके  historic neighbourhoods and streets .
Its landmarks include the  royal   राजमहल  of Madrid ; the Teatro  रियल  ( Royal  थिएटर  ) with its restored 1850 Opera House ; the Buen  retiro  Park , founded in  1631  ; the 19th-century National  पुस्तकालयों  building ( founded in 1712 )  containing  some of Spain 's historical archives ; a  विशाल  number of National  संग्रहालय  , and the  सुनहरी   त्रिभुज  of  आर्ट  , located along the Paseo  डेल  Prado and comprising three art museums : Prado Museum , the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía ,  a  museum of  आधुनिक  art  ,  and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum , which completes the shortcomings of the other two  संग्रहालय  .
Cibeles Palace and Fountain have become  the  monument symbol of the city .
The path of the Via Appia and of the Via Appia  traiana  .
remains  of  the  Appian Way in Rome , near Quarto  miglio
Near Rome .
The Appian  रास्ता  ( Latin  और  Italian : Via Appia ) was one of  the  earliest and  रणनीतिक  most important Roman roads of  the   प्राचीन  republic .
It connected Rome to  brindisi  ,  apulia  , in southeast Italy  .
Its importance is  indicated  by its  आम  name , recorded by Statius :
Appia teritur  रेजिना  longarum viarum
``  the  Appian  रास्ता   is  the queen of the long roads ''
The road  is   नामित  after  appius  Claudius Caecus , the Roman censor who began and  समाप्त  the first section as a military road to the  दक्षिण  in  312  BC during the  samnite  Wars .
The Draupner  वेव  ,  a  single  दानव  wave measured on New Year  's  Day 1995  ,  finally confirmed the existence of freak waves , which  था   previously  been considered near-mythical
दुष्ट  waves ( also known  as   freak  waves , monster waves , killer waves , extreme  लहरें  , and  असामान्य  waves ) are  अपेक्षाकृत   विशाल   और  spontaneous ocean surface waves  कि  occur far out  at  sea , and  हैं  a threat even to  विशाल   जहाजों   और  ocean  liners  .
In  oceanography  ,  वे  are more precisely defined as waves  जिनकी  height is more  than  twice the significant wave height ( SWH ) , which is itself defined as the  औसत  of the  largest  third of waves  in  a wave record .
Therefore rogue waves are not  necessarily  the biggest waves  मिला  at sea ;  वे  are , rather  ,  surprisingly large waves for  a   दिए  sea  राज्य   .
दुष्ट  waves seem not to have a single distinct cause , but occur where physical factors such  as  high  हवाएँ   और  strong  currents  cause waves to merge to create a single exceptionally  विशाल  wave .
Electress Sophia of Hanover ( 1630–1714 )
The line of succession to the  अंग्रेजों  throne is the ordered sequence of all those people eligible to succeed to the  सिंहासन  of the United Kingdom and the  अन्य  15  राष्ट्रमंडल   realms  .
The  अधिनियम  of Settlement 1701 bestowed  उत्तराधिकार  on the  electress  Sophia  of  Hanover and her descendants while excluding Roman Catholics .
The British government does not publish an  आधिकारिक   सूची   of   सब  those in  लकीर  to succeed , but  the  work  of  genealogical authors  और  amateur researchers suggests that  वहीँ  are several thousand people  potentially   in  line .
At a summit  in   पर्थ  , Western Australia in 2011 , the  heads  of government of all 16 Commonwealth realms  सहमत  to  लो   कदम  to adopt absolute primogeniture , end the  exclusion  of people married to Roman Catholics , and make other changes in the  उत्तराधिकार  rules  .
The  लकीर  of succession is also used to select the  counsellors  of State ( and a  रीजेंट   if  the  need  arises  )  under the provisions  of  the Regency Act  1937   .
For  पहले  versions of the line of succession , see  इतिहास  of  the   अंग्रेजों  line  of  succession .
Edward Montgomery Clift ( October 17 , 1920July 23 , 1966 ) was an American film and  स्टेज   कर्ता  The New York Times’ obituary noted his  portrayal  of  ``   मूडी  , sensitive young men '' .
He often played outsiders  और  `` victim-heroes '' ; examples include the  सोशल  climber in George Stevens 's  a  Place in the  सूर्य  , the  anguished   कैथोलिक  priest in  हिचकॉक  's  i  Confess ,  the  doomed regular soldier Robert E. Lee Prewitt  in  Fred Zinnemann 's From Here  to  Eternity , and the Jewish GI bullied by antisemites in Edward Dmytryk 's The Young Lions .
Later , after a disfiguring car crash in 1956 , and alcohol and prescription  ड्रग   गाली  ,  he  became erratic  .
Nevertheless important roles  यहूद  still his  ,  including `` the reckless , alcoholic , mother-fixated  रोडियो  performer ''  in  John  हस्टन  's The Misfits , the title  भूमिका  in Huston  's  , and the concentration camp victim in  स्टेनली   क्रेमर  's Judgment at Nuremberg . ''
Clift  प्राप्त  four Academy Award nominations during his career , three for Best  कर्ता  and one for Best Supporting Actor .
The  युद्ध  on Terror ( also known  as  the  वैश्विक   युद्ध  on Terrorism  )  is a term  commonly   लागू  to an international military campaign which  प्रारंभ  as a result  of  the  11  September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States  .
This  resulted  in an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  military campaign to eliminate al-Qaeda and other militant organizations .
the  United  किंगडम   और  many other NATO  और  non-NATO nations participate in the conflict  .
the  phrase 'War  on  Terror  '  was first used by US President  जार्ज   W.  Bush  on  20 September 2001 .
The Bush administration and the Western media  have   चूंकि  used the  पद   to  signify a global military , political , lawful , and  conceptual  struggle—targeting  दोनो  organizations designated as terrorist and  regimes  accused of supporting them .
It was typically used with a particular focus on  उग्रवादी  Islamists , al-Qaeda , and  अन्य   जिहादी  groups .
Although  the  term is not officially used by  the   प्रशासन  of US President Barack Obama ( which instead  उपयोग  the term Overseas Contingency Operation ) ,  it  is  स्टिल   commonly  used by politicians , in the media and by some aspects of government  officially  ,  ऐसे  as the United  राज्य  ' Global  युद्ध  on Terrorism Service Medal  .
German battleship Schleswig-Holstein  ,   westerplatte  , September 1 , 1939
Destroyer USS Shaw  exploding  after her forward magazine  थी  detonated during the  आक्रमण   on   पर्ल   हार्बर
The main causes of World  युद्ध  II  यहूद  nationalistic issues , unresolved  मुद्दे   ,  and resentments resulting from World War I and the interwar  काल  in Europe  ,  in addition to the effects  of  the Great Depression in the  1930s  .
The culmination of  कार्यक्रम  that led  to  the outbreak of  युद्ध  are  generally   समझा  to be the 1939 invasion  of   कैंडल  by Germany and  सोवियत   रूस  and the 1937 invasion  of  the  गणतंत्र  of China by the Empire of  जापानी   .
These military aggressions were the result of decisions made  by  the  सत्तावादी  ruling Nazi elite  in  Germany and  by  the  नेतृत्व  of the Kwantung Army in Japan  .
संसार  War  ii  started after these aggressive actions were met with  an  official  घोषणा  of war and/or armed resistance .
the  following is  a  list of  देवताओं  and other divine  और  semi-divine figures from  यूनानी   mythology  .
The  सूची  does not include creatures  ;  for these , see  सूची  of Greek mythological  जीव  .
The Mitsubishi Galant is an automobile  manufactured  by  मित्सुबिशी  Motors between 1969 and 2012 .
The name was  निकला  from the French word  galant  , meaning ``  chivalrous  '' .
वहीँ  have been nine distinct generations  ,  and cumulative sales now exceed  पाँच  million .
It  began  as a compact sedan  ,  but over the  कोर्स  of its life has evolved into a  larger  mid-size car .
Initial  उत्पादन  was only based in Japan , but  चूंकि  1994 the American market has  महरूम  served by vehicles assembled at  the  former  diamond-star  Motors  (   dsm  )  सुविधा  in Normal ,  इलिनोइस  .
Blood pressure ( BP ) , sometimes  referred  to as arterial blood  दबाव  , is the  दबाव   exerted  by circulating blood upon the walls of blood vessels  ,   और  is one  of  the principal vital  लक्षण  .
When used without further specification , `` blood pressure '' usually refers to the arterial pressure of  the  systemic circulation .
During each heartbeat , blood pressure varies  between  a  अधिकतम  ( systolic )  और  a minimum ( diastolic  )  pressure  .
The blood pressure in the circulation  is  principally  due  to  the  pumping action of the heart .
Differences in mean blood pressure are responsible for blood flow from one location to another in the circulation  .
The  रेट  of  औसत  blood flow depends  on  the resistance to flow presented by the blood vessels .
Mean blood pressure decreases as the  circulating  blood moves away from the heart through arteries and capillaries  due  to viscous losses of energy .
Mean blood pressure  बूंदें  over the whole circulation , although most  of  the fall occurs along  the  small arteries  और  arterioles .
Gravity affects  रक्त  pressure via hydrostatic forces (  e.g.  ,  दौरान  standing )  और  valves  in  veins , breathing ,  और   pumping  from contraction of skeletal muscles also influence blood pressure in veins  .
रक्त  pressure without  further  specification usually refers  to  the systemic arterial pressure measured at a person  's  upper  भुजा  and is a measure of the pressure  in  the brachial  धमनी   ,  the major artery in the upper arm .
A person’s blood  दबाव  is  प्रायः  expressed in  शर्तें  of  the  systolic pressure  over  diastolic  दबाव  and is measured  in  millimetres of  पारा  ( mmHg ) , for  उदाहरण   120/80  .
A veto  –  Latin for `` I forbid  ''  – is the power ( used by an officer  of  the state  ,  for example ) to unilaterally stop  an  official action  ,  especially the enactment of legislation .
a  veto can  be  absolute , as for instance in the  संयुक्त  Nations Security Council ,  जिनकी   स्थाई   सदस्यों   (  China ,  फ़्रांस  , Russia , United Kingdom , United States of  अमेरिका  ) can block any resolution .
Or it  can  be limited ,  as  in the legislative process of the United States , where  a  two-thirds vote in both the House and Senate  may  override a Presidential  वीटो  of legislation .
a  veto only  देता  power to  रोकें   परिवर्तन  , not to  अपनाना  them ( except for the rare `` amendatory  वीटो   ''  ) .
Thus a  वीटो   allows   इसके  holder to protect the status quo .
The concept of a veto  देह   originated  with the  रोमन  consuls  और  tribunes .
either   of  the two consuls holding  दफ्तर  in a given year could block a military or civil  निर्णय   by  the  अन्य  ;  कोई  tribune had the  शक्ति  to unilaterally block legislation passed  by  the Roman Senate .
Sulfur dioxide (  भी  sulphur dioxide ) is the  रासायनिक   यौगिक  with the formula .
it  is a  विषाक्त  gas with  a  pungent  ,  irritating smell , that  is   released  by  ज्वालामुखी  and  in  various  औद्योगिक   प्रक्रियाओं  .
चूंकि   कोयले  and petroleum often contain  गंधक   यौगिकों   ,  their  दहन  generates sulfur dioxide  जबतक  the sulfur compounds are removed before  burning  the fuel .
Further oxidation  of   so2  , usually in the presence  of  a catalyst such  as  NO2  ,   फ़ॉर्म  H2SO4 , and thus acid rain .
Sulfur dioxide emissions are also  a  precursor to  अभिकण   in  the atmosphere .
दोनो  of these impacts are cause for concern over the environmental impact of these fuels .
myasthenia   ग्रेविस   (  from Greek μύς `` muscle '' , `` weakness  ''  ,  और  `` serious ''  ;  abbreviated MG )  is   an  autoimmune  neuromuscular   बीमारी  leading to  fluctuating  muscle weakness and  fatigability   .
It  is  an  असंक्राम्य  disorder , in which weakness is caused by circulating antibodies that block acetylcholine  receptors  at  the  postsynaptic neuromuscular junction , inhibiting the excitatory effects of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular  junctions   .
Myasthenia is treated medically with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants  ,   और  , in selected cases , thymectomy .
The  बीमारी  incidence is 3–30 cases per  लाख  per year and rising as a  परिणाम  of increased awareness  .
MG must be distinguished from congenital  myasthenic  syndromes  कि  can present similar symptoms but offer no response to immunosuppressive treatments .
Reflective  मुड़  nematic liquid crystal display .
polarizing  filter  फिल्मी  with a vertical  अक्ष  to  polarize  light as it enters .
Glass  substrate   साथ   ito  electrodes .
The shapes of  ये  electrodes  होगा   determine  the shapes that will appear when the  एलसीडी  is turned  on  .
लंबवत  ridges  etched  on the surface are smooth .
Twisted nematic liquid  क्रिस्टल  .
Glass substrate with common electrode film (  ito  ) with  आड़ा  ridges to line  up  with the horizontal filter .
Polarizing  फिल्टर   फिल्मी  with a horizontal axis to block/pass light .
Reflective surface to send light back to viewer .
( In a backlit LCD , this layer is replaced with a light source . )
A  liquid-crystal  display ( LCD )  is   a  flat  फलक  display , electronic visual  प्रदर्शक   ,  or video display  कि  uses the light modulating properties of liquid crystals .
Liquid crystals do  नहीं  emit light directly .
LCDs are available to display  मनमानी  images ( as in  a  general-purpose  कंप्यूटर  display ) or  फिक्स्ड   बिंब  which can be displayed or hidden  ,  such as preset words  ,  digits  ,  and 7-segment displays as in a digital clock .
वे  use the same basic technology , except that arbitrary  बिंब  are made  up  of  a  large number of small pixels ,  जबकि  other displays have larger elements .
lcds  are used in a wide range  of  applications including  कंप्यूटर   मॉनीटर  , televisions , instrument  panels   ,   वायुयान  cockpit displays , and signage  .
They are  आम  in  उपभोक्ता  devices  ऐसे  as video  खिलाड़ी  , gaming  डिवाइस  , clocks , watches ,  calculators  , and telephones  ,  and have  replaced  cathode ray tube ( CRT ) displays in most applications .
वे  are available in a wider range of screen sizes than CRT and  प्लाज्मा  displays , and since they do not use phosphors , they do  नहीं  suffer  चित्र  burn-in .
LCDs are , however  ,  susceptible to image persistence .
the  LCD  स्क्रीन   is  more energy efficient and can  be  disposed of more safely than a CRT .
इसके   कम   विद्युत  power  खपत  enables  it  to be  प्रयुक्त  in battery  -powered  electronic equipment .
It is an  electronically   modulated   ऑप्टिकल  device made  up  of any  क्रमांक  of  खण्ड   भर   साथ  liquid crystals  और   arrayed  in front of  a   लाइट  source  (   backlight  ) or reflector to produce images  in  color  or  monochrome .
Liquid crystals were first discovered in 1888 .
By 2008 , worldwide  बिक्री  of televisions with  एलसीडी  screens  exceeded  annual  बिक्री   of  CRT units  ;  the CRT became obsolete for most  उद्देश्य  .
the  Borgata Hotel  कसीनो  and  स्पा  is a luxury hotel , casino  ,  and  स्पा  in Atlantic City ,  नई  Jersey , United States .
It  is  owned  by   मरीना  District Development , a joint venture  between  Boyd Gaming and  a  divesture trust established by  mgm  Resorts International .
The  $  1.1 billion casino hotel features 2,002 rooms and  is  the largest hotel in New  जर्सी  .
the  Borgata opened  in  July 2003 as a  लास  Vegas-style  megaresort  and is the top-grossing  कसीनो  in  अटलांटिक  City .
a  bottle of high potency B-complex vitamin supplement pills .
A vitamin ( or )  is  an organic compound required  by   an  organism as a vital nutrient in limited amounts  .
An organic chemical compound ( or related  नियत   of  compounds ) is called  a  vitamin when it  can   नहीं  be synthesized in sufficient quantities by  an   सजीव  , and must be obtained from the diet .
Thus , the  पद  is  सशर्त  both on the circumstances and  on  the particular  सजीव  .
For  उदाहरण  , ascorbic acid (  विटामिन   c  ) is a vitamin for humans ,  लकिन  not for most other animals , and biotin and  विटामिन   d  are required in the human  आहार  only in certain  हालातों  .
by  convention  ,  the  पद  vitamin includes neither other essential nutrients ,  ऐसे  as dietary minerals , essential fatty acids  ,  or essential  अमीनो  acids ( which are needed in larger amounts than vitamins )  nor  the large number  of  other  nutrients   कि  promote health but are otherwise required  कम  often .
Thirteen  विटामिन   हैं  universally recognized at present .
Vitamins are classified  by  their biological and chemical activity  ,  not their  ढांचा   .
Thus  ,  each  ``  vitamin '' refers to a number  of   vitamer   यौगिकों  that all show the  biological  activity associated  साथ  a particular vitamin .
ऐसे  a  नियत  of chemicals is  grouped  under an alphabetized vitamin `` generic  वर्णनकर्ता  '' title , such as `` vitamin  a  `` ,  जिससे  includes the compounds retinal , retinol , and four known carotenoids .
Vitamers by definition are  convertible  to the  क्रियाशील  form  of  the vitamin  in  the body , and are sometimes inter-convertible to  एक  another , as  खूब   .
Vitamins have  विविध  biochemical functions .
Some  have   hormone-like  functions as regulators of mineral metabolism (  ऐसे  as vitamin D  )  , or regulators  of  cell and tissue growth and differentiation ( such as some  फ़ॉर्म  of vitamin  a  ) .
Others function as antioxidants  (  e.g. , vitamin E and  sometimes  vitamin C ) .
The  largest  number of vitamins  (  such  as  B complex vitamins ) function as  precursors   लिये  enzyme cofactors ,  कि  help enzymes  in  their work as catalysts in metabolism  .
In this role , vitamins may be tightly  बंधी  to  एंजाइमों  as part of prosthetic  समूह  : For  उदाहरण  , biotin  is   भाग  of enzymes involved  in  making fatty acids .
Vitamins may also be less tightly bound to enzyme catalysts  as  coenzymes  ,  detachable molecules that function  to  carry chemical groups or electrons between molecules .
For example , folic acid may carry methyl , formyl , and methylene groups in the cell .
Although these roles in assisting enzyme-substrate reactions are vitamins '  best-known  function , the other  विटामिन  functions are equally important .
Until  the  mid-1930s , when the first commercial yeast-extract  विटामिन  B  जटिल   और  semi-synthetic  विटामिन   c  supplement  टैबलेट  were sold , vitamins  यहूद   प्राप्त  solely through food intake , and changes in diet (  जिससे  , for example , could occur  दौरान  a  particular  growing season ) usually greatly altered the  प्रकार  and amounts of vitamins ingested .
However , vitamins  have   महरूम  produced as  कमोडिटी  chemicals and made  widely   उपलब्धियाँ  as inexpensive semisynthetic and synthetic-source multivitamin dietary and food  पूरक  and  एडिटिव  , since the middle  of   the  20th century .
संसार  Muslim population by percentage ( Pew Research Center , 2009  )
World Muslim population in millions
Islam is the world 's second  largest  religion after Christianity .
According to a 2010  पढ़ाई  , Islam  रै  1.62  अरब  adherents ,  बनाना  up over 23 % of the world population .
Islam  is  the predominant religion in the Middle East ,  in  Sahel  ,  in the Horn  of  Africa and northern  अफ़्रीकी  , and in some  भाग   of  Asia .
Large communities of Muslims are also found in China , the Balkans  ,  and Russia .
अन्य  parts of the world host large Muslim immigrant communities ; in Western Europe ,  लिये  instance , Islam  is  the  दूसरी   largest  religion after Christianity ,  जहाँ  it represents 6 % of the total population  .
according  to  the   pew  Research Center in 2010 there were 49 Muslim-majority countries .
Around  62  % of the world  's  Muslims live in  दक्षिण  and  southeast   एशिया   ,  with over 1 billion adherents  .
The largest Muslim country is Indonesia  ,   घर   to  12.7 % of the world 's Muslims  ,  followed by  पाकिस्तानी  ( 11.0 % ) , India ( 10.9 % ) , and Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ) .
About  20  %  of   मुसलमान  live  in   अरब  countries  .
in  the Middle East , the non-Arab countries  of  Turkey and Iran  हैं  the largest Muslim-majority countries ; in Africa , Egypt  और  Nigeria have  the  most populous Muslim communities .
A study  conducted   by  the Pew  शोध  Center  in  2010 and released January 2011 found that there are 1.62 billion  मुसलमान   around  the world .
The  पढ़ाई  found more Muslims in the United Kingdom than in Lebanon and more in  चीन  than in Syria .
rhode  Island ( or ) , officially the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , is a state  in  the  नई  England region of the United States .
Rhode Island  is  the smallest in area , the  आठवीं   तनिक  populous , but the second  सबसे  densely  आबादी  of  the  50 US states  पीछे   नई  Jersey  .
Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the west and Massachusetts to  the   उत्तर   और  east  ,  and it shares a  जल  boundary with New  यॉर्क  's Long Island to the southwest .
Rhode Island was the first of  the  13 original  colonies  to declare independence from British rule , declaring itself independent on May 4 ,  1776  ,  दो  months before  कोई  other colony .
The  राज्य  was also  the  last of  the  thirteen original  colonies  to ratify the United States  संविधान  .
Rhode Island 's official nickname is `` The  समंदर  State '' , a  सन्दर्भ  to the State  's  geography , since Rhode Island has several large bays and inlets  कि   राशि  to about 14 % of its total area .
Its land  क्षेत्रफल  is  ,  but its total area  is  significantly larger .
Dubai  (  ; ' ,  )  is a  नगर  in the United Arab Emirates  ,  located within the emirate of  the  same name .
The  अमीर  of Dubai is  स्तिथ  on  the  southeast coast of  the  Persian Gulf on the Arabian Peninsula and is one of the seven emirates  कि  make  up  the country .
it   रै  the largest population  in  the UAE ( 2,106,177 ) and the second-largest land territory by area ( 4,114  km2  ) after Abu Dhabi .
Dubai and Abu  धाबी   ,  the  नेशनल  capital , are the  तभी  two emirates to  have  veto power over critical matters of  नेशनल  importance in the country 's  विधानमंडल  .
The  नगर  of Dubai is located on the  अमीर  's northern coastline and heads up the Dubai-Sharjah-Ajman metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  .
Dubai is  आजकल  often  misperceived   as   a   देश  or city-state and , in some cases , the UAE as  a  whole has been described as 'Dubai '  .
The earliest mention of Dubai  is  in 1095 AD ,  और  the earliest recorded settlement in the region dates from 1799 .
The Sheikhdom of Dubai was formally  स्थापित   in  1833 by Sheikh  maktoum  bin Butti Al-Maktoum when  he  persuaded around 800 members  of  his tribe of  the  Bani Yas , living  in  what was then the  दूसरी   सऊदी  State and now part of Saudi Arabia , to  follow  him to the Dubai Creek  by   the   abu  Falasa clan of the Bani Yas .
It remained under  the  tribe 's control when the United Kingdom assumed protection of the Sheikhdom in  1892  and joined the nascent United Arab Emirates upon independence in  1971  as the  देश  's second emirate .
इसके   रणनीतिक  geographic location  बना  the town an important trading hub and  by  the beginning of the  20th  century  ,  Dubai was already an important  क्षेत्रीय  port .
Today , Dubai has emerged as a cosmopolitan metropolis that has  grown  steadily to become a global city and a business and cultural hub of the Middle East and  the  Persian Gulf  प्रदेश   .
Although Dubai 's economy  थी  historically built on the oil  उद्योग  , the emirate 's Western-style model of business drives its economy  साथ  the main revenues now coming  इससे  tourism , real estate , and financial services .
Dubai has recently  आकर्षित  world  ध्यान  through  अनेक   अभिनव  large construction  प्रोजेक्ट  and sports events .
The  नगर  has  become  symbolic for its skyscrapers and high-rise buildings ,  ऐसे   as   the   संसार  's tallest  burj   खलीफा  , in addition to  महत्वाकांक्षी  development  प्रोजेक्ट  including man-made  आइलैंड्स  ,  होटल  ,  और  some of the  largest  shopping malls in the  प्रदेश  and the world .
इस   increased   ध्यान  has  भी  highlighted labor  और  human rights issues concerning  the  city  's  largely South Asian paid workforce  .
Dubai 's  प्रॉपर्टी  market experienced a major deterioration in 2008–2009 as a  परिणाम  of the worldwide  आर्थिक   downturn   following  the financial crisis of 2007-2008  .
however  , Dubai has made a  स्थिर  and gradual recovery with help coming  इससे  neighboring  अमीरात  .
The handful of  नई  projects that are in  the  pipeline  have   महरूम  able to help Dubai real estate make a comeback .
As of 2012 , Dubai is the 22nd most expensive  नगर  in the  संसार   ,  and the most expensive  नगर  in  the  Middle  ईस्ट  , surpassing Israel 's  tel   aviv  ( 31st ) .
दुबई  has also been rated as one of the best places  to  live in  the   मध्य  East , including by US  अमरीकी  global consulting firm Mercer who rated the  नगर   as  the best place to live in the Middle East in 2011  .
The  following   is  a list  of   कॉलेजों  and universities in  the  U.S. state of Illinois  .
सतह  of  the  Atlantic ocean meeting the Earth 's planetary boundary layer and troposphere  .
लहरें  on an ocean coast .
This  एनिमेशन  uses Earth science  आंकड़ा   इससे  a variety of sensors on  नासा  Earth observing satellites to measure physical oceanography  पैरामीटर्स  such as ocean currents , ocean winds , sea surface height  और  sea surface temperature  .
An  समंदर  ( ; the  संसार  Ocean  of  classical  प्राचीनता  ) is a body of saline  जल  that composes a large part  of  a planet 's hydrosphere .
In the context of  धरती  , it  refers  to one or all of the  प्रमुख  divisions  of  the  ग्रह  's World Ocean –  वे  are , in descending order of area  ,  the Pacific , Atlantic ,  भारतीय  , Southern ( Antarctic ) , and Arctic Oceans .
The word `` sea `` is  प्रायः  used interchangeably with  ``  ocean  ''  , but strictly speaking a sea  is  a body of saline water ( possibly  a  division  of  the World Ocean )  partly  or fully  enclosed  by land .
Earth is the only planet known to have an ocean (  or  any large amounts of open liquid water  )  .
Approximately 72 % of  the   ग्रह  's surface ( ~3.6x108 km2 )  is  covered by saline  जल   कि  is  customarily  divided  into  several principal oceans and smaller seas  ,  with  the  ocean  covering   लगभग   71   %  of the Earth 's surface  .
In terms  of  the  जलमंडल  of  the  Earth , the ocean contains 97 % of the Earth 's  जल  .
Oceanographers  have  stated  कि  out of  97   %  , only 5 %  of  the ocean  as  a whole on Earth has been explored .
Because it is the principal component  of  Earth 's  जलमंडल  , the world  समंदर  is integral to all known life ,  फ़ॉर्म  part of the carbon cycle , and influences climate and weather patterns .
The total volume is approximately 1.3 billion  घन  kilometres ( 310 million cu  mi  ) with an  औसत  depth of .
It is the habitat of 230,000  ज्ञात   प्रजाति  , although  much  of the ocean 's  गहराइयों  remain  unexplored  and it  is  estimated that over two million  समुद्री  species exist .
The origin of Earth 's oceans is  स्टिल  unknown  ,  but oceans  हैं  believed to have  formed  in the Hadean period and  may  have been  the   impetus  for  the   emergence  of life .
extraterrestrial  oceans may be composed of a wide  दायरा  of elements and compounds .
The  तभी  confirmed large stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface  liquids  are  the  lakes of Titan , although there is evidence  लिये   the  existence of oceans elsewhere in the Solar System  .
Early in their  भूगर्भिक  histories , Mars and Venus are theorized to have had large water oceans  .
The Mars ocean hypothesis  suggests   कि  nearly a third of the surface of  मंगल   थी  once  covered  by water , though  the  water on Mars  is  no longer oceanic , and  a  runaway  ग्रीनहाउस  effect may have boiled away the global ocean of Venus .
Compounds  ऐसे  as salts and ammonia dissolved in water lower its freezing point , so that water might exist in large quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting ice .
Unconfirmed oceans  हैं  speculated beneath  the  surface of many dwarf planets and natural satellites ;  notably  , the ocean of Europa  is  believed  to   have  over twice the water volume of Earth .
The Solar System 's gas giant planets  हैं  also believed to  possess  liquid atmospheric layers of yet to  be   पुष्टि  compositions .
Oceans may also  मौजूद  on  exoplanets  and exomoons ,  सहित  surface oceans of  द्रव  water within a circumstellar habitable zone .
Ocean planets are a hypothetical  प्रकार  of  ग्रह  with a surface completely  covered  with liquid .
Elvis Aaron Presley (  जनवरी  8 , 1935  –  August 16 ,  1977   )  was an American singer  और  actor .
a  cultural icon ,  he  is  commonly  known  by  the  सिंगल   नाम  Elvis .
One of the  सबसे  popular musicians of the  20th  century  ,  he is often referred to as  the  `` King of Rock and Roll '' or ``  the  King '' .
Born in Tupelo , Mississippi , Presley moved  to   मेम्फिस  , Tennessee , with his family  at  the age  of  13 .
He began his  करियर  there in  1954  , working with Sun Records owner Sam  phillips  , who  चाही  to bring the sound of African-American music to a  wider  audience .
Accompanied  by   guitarist   स्कॉटी  Moore and bassist  विधेयक  Black , Presley was the most  महत्वपूर्ण   popularizer   of   rockabilly  , an uptempo  ,  backbeat -driven fusion of  देश   और  rhythm and blues .
RCA Victor acquired  उसके  contract in a deal arranged by Colonel Tom Parker , who went on to manage the singer for over two decades .
प्रेस्ली   's  first RCA single , `` Heartbreak  होटल  `` , released in  जनवरी  1956  ,  was a number-one hit .
He became the leading figure of the newly popular sound of  चट्टान  and roll with  a  series of network television appearances  और  chart-topping records .
His energized interpretations of songs , many from  african-american  sources , and his uninhibited performance style made  उसे   enormously  popular—and controversial .
In November 1956 , he made his film debut in  प्रेम  Me Tender .
Drafted  into  military service in 1958 , Presley  relaunched  his recording career two years later with  कुछ  of his most commercially  कामयाब  work .
He staged few concerts  however  ,  और  guided by Parker  ,  proceeded to devote much of  the  1960s to  बनाना  Hollywood  फिल्मों  and soundtrack albums , most of them  critically  derided .
In  1968  , after seven years away from the stage ,  he  returned to live  प्रदर्शन  in a celebrated comeback television special that led to  an  extended Las Vegas concert residency and a string of  लाभप्रद  tours .
in  1973 Presley staged the first concert broadcast globally via satellite , Aloha from  हवाई  .
Prescription drug  गाली  severely  deteriorated  his health , and he died  एकाएक   in  1977  at   the   आयु  of  42  .
Presley is regarded  as  one of  the   सबसे   महत्वपूर्ण  figures of 20th-century popular culture .
he  had a versatile voice and  unusually   चौड़ी  success encompassing many genres , including country , pop ballads , gospel , and blues .
He is the  best-selling   सोलो   कलाकार  in the history of popular music .
Nominated for 14  प्रतिस्पर्धी  Grammys , he won three ,  और  received  the  Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award at  आयु  36 .
he  has been inducted into multiple music halls of fame .
A glass of root beer with foam
रूट  beer is a  कार्बोनेटेड  , sweetened beverage ,  originally   बना  using  the  root  of  a  sassafras  plant ( or  the  bark  of  a sassafras  पेड़  ) as  the   प्राथमिक  flavor .
रूट  beer , popularized  in  North America  ,   आता  in two  फ़ॉर्म   :  alcoholic and soft drink .
The historical  रूट  beer  थी   analogous  to small beer in that the process provided  a  drink with a very low alcohol content .
Although roots  हैं  used as  the   सोर्स  of many soft drinks throughout the world ,  प्रायः   अलग   names   हैं  used .
Fluorescent minerals emit visible light when exposed to ultraviolet light
Fluorescence is  the  emission  of   लाइट  by a substance that  रै  absorbed light  or  other electromagnetic radiation  .
It is a  रूप  of luminescence .
In most  मामले   ,   the  emitted light has a longer wavelength , and therefore lower  उर्जा  , than  the  absorbed radiation  .
However , when the absorbed  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  radiation is intense , it is possible  लिये  one electron to  अवशोषित  two photons  ;  this two-photon absorption can lead to  उत्सर्जन   of  radiation  having   a  shorter wavelength than  the  absorbed radiation .
The  उत्सर्जित   विकिरण  may also  be  of the same wavelength as  the  absorbed radiation  ,   termed  ``  अनुनाद   प्रतिदीप्ति  ''  .
The most  striking  examples of fluorescence  occur  when the absorbed radiation is in  the  ultraviolet region of the spectrum , and thus invisible  to   the  human eye  ,   और  the  उत्सर्जित  light is in the visible region .
प्रतिदीप्ति   रै  many practical  अनुप्रयोग  , including  mineralogy  , gemology , chemical sensors  (  fluorescence spectroscopy  )  , fluorescent labelling , dyes ,  biological  detectors  ,  and , most commonly , fluorescent lamps .
अनौपचारिक  logic , intuitively , refers to  the  principles  of   लॉजिक  and  लॉजिकल  thought outside of a  औपचारिक   सेटिंग   .
However , perhaps because of the informal  in  the  शीर्षक  , the precise definition of informal  लॉजिक  is a matter of  कुछ  dispute .
Ralph H. Johnson and J. Anthony Blair define informal  लॉजिक  as `` a branch of logic whose task  is  to develop non-formal  मानकों  , criteria , procedures for  the  analysis , interpretation  ,  evaluation , criticism and construction of argumentation . ''
This definition reflects what had been implicit in their practice and what  अन्य  were doing in  उनके  informal logic  ग्रन्थ  .
अनौपचारिक  logic is associated with (  अनौपचारिक  ) fallacies , critical thinking  ,  the  सोच  Skills Movement and the interdisciplinary  पूछताछ  known as  argumentation  theory .
frans  H. van Eemeren  writes  that the  लेबल  ``  अनौपचारिक  logic  ''  covers a `` collection of normative approaches  to  the  पढ़ाई  of reasoning in  ordinary  language that remain closer  to  the practice of argumentation  than  formal logic . ''
USA annual real GDP 1910–60  ,  with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960 , with the years of the Great Depression (  1929–1939  ) highlighted .
the  Great Depression began in August of 1929 , when the United  राज्य   अर्थव्यवस्था  first went into an  आर्थिक  recession .
Although the country spent two months with declining GDP , it was  नहीं  until the Wall  गली  Crash of  अक्तूबर  , 1929 that  the  effects  of   a  declining economy were felt , and a major  विश्वव्यापी  economic downturn  ensued  .
The market crash  चिह्नित  the beginning of  a  decade of high unemployment , poverty , low profits  ,  deflation , plunging farm incomes , and lost opportunities for economic growth and  निजी  advancement .
Although its  कल्याणकारी   हैं  still uncertain and controversial  ,  the  जाल  effect was a sudden and general  घाटा  of confidence  in  the  आर्थिक  future .
The usual explanations  शामिल   numerous  factors , especially high consumer debt , ill-regulated markets  कि  permitted overoptimistic loans by banks and investors , and the lack  of  high-growth  नई  industries ,  सब  interacting  to  create a downward economic spiral of reduced spending  ,  falling confidence , and  lowered  production  .
Industries that  suffered  the most included construction , agriculture  as  dust-bowl conditions persisted in the agricultural  heartland  , shipping , mining , and logging as well  as  durable goods like automobiles and appliances that  could  be postponed .
The economy reached bottom in the winter of 1932–33  ;  then  आए  four years of very rapid growth until 1937 , when the Recession  of   1937  brought  वापस  1934 levels of unemployment .
The  अवसाद   caused  major political changes in  अमेरिका  .
Three years into the depression ,  हर्बर्ट  Hoover  खोया  the 1932 presidential election to Franklin Delano Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide .
Roosevelt 's economic  रिकवरी   योजना  , the New Deal , instituted  unprecedented  programs  लिये  relief , recovery and  सुधार   ,  and brought about  a  major realignment of American politics .
The  अवसाद  also resulted in an increase  of  emigration of people to other countries for the first time in  अमरीकी   इतिहास  .
For example , some immigrants went back to their native countries  ,   और  some  देशी  US  नागरिकों  went to  कनाडा  , Australia  ,  and  दक्षिण  Africa .
It also resulted in the  द्रव्यमान  migration of people  इससे   badly  hit areas in the Great Plains and  the   दक्षिण  to places such as California  और   the  North , respectively ( see Okies and the  ग्रेट  Migration of African Americans ) .
Racial tensions also increased during  इस  time .
By  the  1940s  आव्रजन  had returned back  to  normal ,  और  emigration  अस्वीकृत  .
A  well-known  example of  an   emigrant  was  फ़्रैंक  McCourt  ,   जो   गई  to Ireland , as  recounted   in   उसके  book Angela 's Ashes .
The  मेमोरी  of  the  Depression also shaped modern theories  of  economics  और   resulted   in   अनेक   परिवर्तन   in  how the government dealt with economic downturns ,  ऐसे  as  the  use of stimulus packages ,  keynesian   अर्थशास्त्र   ,  and  सोशल  Security .
It also shaped modern American  साहित्य  , resulting in famous novels  ऐसे  as John  steinbeck   's  `` The Grapes of Wrath `` and `` Of Mice and Men  ``   .
The Great Depression of the 1930s started with the stock market crash of October  1929  .
Turkey ( ) , officially the Republic of Turkey , is  a   transcontinental  country , located  ज़्यादातर  on Anatolia in Western  एशिया  and on East Thrace  in  Southeastern Europe .
Turkey is bordered by eight countries  :  Bulgaria to the northwest  ;  Greece to the west ; Georgia to the  पूर्वोत्तर  ;  अर्मेनिया  ,  इरान  and the Azerbaijani exclave  of  Nakhchivan to the east ;  और  Iraq  और  Syria  to   the  southeast .
The Mediterranean Sea is to the south ; the  ईजियन  Sea is to  the  west ; and the Black  समुद्र  is  to  the  उत्तर  .
The Sea of Marmara  ,  the Bosphorus and  the  Dardanelles  (   जिससे   साथ  form the Turkish Straits ) demarcate  the  boundary between Thrace and Anatolia  ;  they also  पृथक  Europe  और   एशिया  .
Turkey 's location at the crossroads  of  Europe and Asia makes  it  a country  of  significant  geostrategic   महत्व   .
The country 's official language is Turkish  ,  a  turkic   भाषा  , which is spoken by approximately 85  %  of the population as  माँ  tongue .
The most  numerous  ethnic group is the  turks  , who constitute  between  70 % and 75 % of the population according to The World Factbook .
Kurds are the  largest  ethnic  अल्पसंख्यक  and , according to the same source  ,  number  around  18  %  of the  जनसांख्यिकी   जबकि  other ethnic minorities are estimated to be  at  7–12  %   .
The vast majority  of  the  जनसांख्यिकी  is Muslim .
The area now called  तुर्कों   रै   महरूम  inhabited since the Paleolithic , including various Ancient Anatolian civilizations and  thracian  peoples .
After Alexander  the  Great  's  conquest , the  क्षेत्रफल  was Hellenized , which continued with the  रोमन   नियम  and the transition into the  बीज़ान्टिन  Empire .
the  Seljuk Turks began migrating into the area in  the   11th   सदी   ,  starting the process of Turkification , which was greatly accelerated by the Seljuk victory over the Byzantines at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071 .
The Seljuk Sultanate  of  Rûm ruled Anatolia until the Mongol invasion in 1243 ,  upon  which it disintegrated into several small Turkish beyliks .
starting  from  the   लेट  13th  सदी  , the Ottoman beylik united  आनातोलिया   और  created  an  empire encompassing  much   of  Southeastern Europe , Western Asia and North Africa .
After the Ottoman Empire collapsed following its  शिकस्त  in World War I ,  भाग  of it  यहूद  occupied by the victorious Allies .
A cadre of young military officers , led by  mustafa   kemal  Atatürk and  उसके  colleagues ,  व्यवस्थित  a successful resistance to the Allies ; in 1923 they established  the  modern Republic of Turkey , with Atatürk as  इसके   पहला  president .
Turkey is a democratic , secular , unitary  ,  constitutional republic with a diverse cultural heritage .
Turkey has become increasingly integrated with the West through membership  in   संगठनों   ऐसे  as the Council of Europe , NATO ,  oecd  ,  osce  and  the  G-20 major economies  .
Turkey began full membership negotiations with the European Union in 2005 ,  having  been  an  associate member  of   the  European Economic Community  चूंकि  1963 and having joined the  eu  Customs Union in 1995  .
Turkey  रै  also fostered close cultural , political and economic relations  साथ  the  मध्य  East , Caucasus  ,   the  Turkic states of Central Asia and the African countries through membership in organisations such  as  the Turkic Council , Joint Administration of Turkic  कला  and  संस्कृति  , Organisation  of  Islamic Cooperation and the Economic Cooperation Organisation  .
Turkey 's growing economy  और  diplomatic initiatives have led to its recognition as a regional power .
तुर्कों  is the world 's  17th  largest economy  by  nominal  जीडीपी  and  the  16th largest by purchasing power parity .
caryn  Elaine Johnson , best known as Whoopi Goldberg (  ,  ( born November  13  , 1955 ) is an American comedienne , actress , singer-songwriter , political activist , author and  बात  show host  .
गोल्डबर्ग   बना  her film debut in The  रंग  Purple  (  1985 ) , playing  celie  ,  a  mistreated black woman in the Deep South .
She received  a  nomination for the  अकादमी   पुरस्कार  for Best Actress and won her first Golden Globe Award for her role in  the   फिल्मी  .
In  1990  , she played Oda Mae Brown ,  a  wacky psychic helping a  slain  man ( Patrick  swayze  ) save his lover ( Demi  मूर  )  in  the blockbuster Ghost .
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for  बेहतरीन  Supporting Actress ; this made Goldberg only the  दूसरी  black woman in the history  of  the Academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being  हैटी  McDaniel who won for Gone With  the  Wind in 1939 .
Notable later films  शामिल  Sister Act and  सिस्टर   अधिनियम   2  , The Player , Made in America , How Stella Got Her Groove Back  ,  Girl  ,  Interrupted and Rat  रेस  .
She  is  also  acclaimed  for her  भूमिकाएँ  as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next  पीढी  , as Terry Doolittle  in  Jumpin '  जोकर  Flash  ,  and  as  Carmen Tibideaux in Glee , as well as the voice of  shenzi  the hyena  in  The Lion King .
Goldberg has been nominated for 13  एमी  Awards for  उसके  work in television .
She  थी  co-producer  of  the popular  खेल  show Hollywood Squares from 1998  to  2004 .
She has been  the  moderator  of  the daytime talk show The View since 2007 .
गोल्डबर्ग  has a Grammy  ,  two Daytime Emmys , two Golden Globes , a Tony ( for production , not acting  )   ,  and an Oscar .
In addition , Goldberg has  a  British Academy Film Award ,  चार  People  's   चुनाव  Awards , and has  महरूम  honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of  कीर्ति  .
वो   is  one of the  few   मनोरंजनकर्ता  who have won an Emmy  ,  Grammy , Oscar  ,   और  Tony Award .
Augusta is  a  consolidated city  in  the U.S. state of Georgia ,  स्तिथ  at the fall line of the Savannah River , at the head of its  navigable  portion .
As of  the  2010 census , the Augusta– Richmond County population was 195,844 not counting  the  unconsolidated cities  of   hephzibah   और  Blythe  .
augusta  is the principal city of the Augusta  –  Richmond County  महानगर  Statistical Area ,  जिससे  as of 2010 had an  अनुमानित  population of  556,877  , making it both the  second-largest  city and the second-largest metro area in the state after Atlanta .
it  is the 116th-largest city  in  the United  राज्य   .
Internationally ,  augusta  is best known for hosting The Masters Tournament in golf each spring .
a  CD-ROM ( ) is a  pre-pressed  compact disc which contains data .
The name is an acronym which stands  लिये  `` Compact  डिस्क  Read-only memory ``  .
Computers can  पढ़ा  CD-ROMs , but can not write on them .
CD-ROMs  हैं  popularly used to  वितरित   कंप्यूटर  software  ,  including video games and  मल्टीमीडिया   अनुप्रयोग  , though  कोई  data can be stored ( up to the capacity  सीमा  of a disc ) .
कुछ  CDs , called enhanced CDs ,  थाम  both computer data and audio with the  latter   सक्षम   of  being played  on  a CD player , while data  (  such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a  कंप्यूटर   (   ऐसे  as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow Book is the technical  मानक  that defines the format of CD-ROMs .
One  of  a  नियत  of color-bound books that contain the  तकनीकी  specifications  लिये  all CD formats , the Yellow Book , created by Sony and Philips ,  थी  the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It adapted the format to hold  कोई   रूप  of data  .
The Chicago Blackhawks (  spelled  as Black Hawks before  1986  , and known colloquially as the Hawks )  हैं  a  पेशेवर  ice hockey team  आधारित  in Chicago , Illinois .
They  हैं  members  of  the  सेंट्रल  Division of the Western Conference of the  नेशनल   हॉकी  League ( NHL ) .
वे  have won four  स्टेनली   कप   championships  since  उनके  founding in 1926 , most recently in 2009–10 .
the  Blackhawks are one of  the  Original Six NHL  टीमों  , along  साथ  the Detroit Red Wings , Montreal Canadiens ,  टोरंटो   मेपल  Leafs , Boston Bruins and  नई   यॉर्क   रेंजरों  .
चूंकि  the Blackhawks  have  played their home games  at  the United Center after having  खर्च  65 years  playing  at  शिकागो  Stadium .
Lent celebrants carrying out a  गली  procession during  पावन  Week .
the  violet color is often associated  साथ   penance  and detachment .
समान  Christian penitential practice is seen in other  कैथोलिक  countries , sometimes  संबद्ध  with  mortification  of the flesh .
Granada , Nicaragua .
Lent ( Latin  :  Quadragesima ) is  a   solemn  observance  in  the liturgical  साल  of  अनेक  Christian denominations  ,  lasting for a period of approximately six weeks leading up to Easter Sunday .
In the general Latin-rite and most Western denominations Lent is taken  to   चलाएं  from Ash  बुधवार  to Maundy Thursday ( Holy  गुरुवार  ) morning or to Easter  संध्या   .
In  the  Catholic Church , Lent lasts until  पावन  Thursday , while  अन्य  denominations run until Easter Eve .
The traditional purpose  of  Lent  is   the   तैयारी  of the believer through prayer  ,  penance  ,  repentance  ,  almsgiving , and self-denial .
Its institutional  purpose  is heightened in the annual  commemoration  of Holy  सप्ताह  , marking the death  ,   दफ़न  and resurrection of  यीशु  , which  recalls  the  कार्यक्रम  of  the  Bible when Jesus is  crucified  on  शुभ  Friday , which  तब  culminates  in  the celebration on Easter Sunday of the Resurrection of  यीशु  Christ .
During Lent , many  of  the faithful commit to  उपवास  or  giving  up  निश्चित  types of luxuries as a  रूप  of penitence  .
The Stations of the Cross , a devotional  commemoration  of  मसीह  's carrying the Cross and of his  निष्पादन  , are often  observed  .
Many Roman Catholic  और  some Protestant  चर्च  remove flowers  इससे  their altars , while crucifixes , religious  मूर्तियाँ  , and other elaborate religious symbols are  प्रायः  veiled  in  violet fabrics in  solemn  observance of the event .
In certain  परहेज़गारों  Catholic countries , some adherents mark the season with the traditional abstention from  the  consumption of  मांस  .
In  कुछ  countries , grand religious processions and  सांस्कृतिक  customs are observed , and the faithful attempt to visit seven churches during Holy Week in honor of Jesus Christ heading  to  Mount Calvary .
lent  is traditionally described  as  lasting for forty days ,  in  commemoration  of   the  forty days  जिससे  , according to the  gospels  of Matthew , Mark  और  Luke , Jesus spent fasting in  the  desert before the beginning of his public ministry , where he endured temptation by the Devil .
However ,  अलग  Christian denominations calculate the  चालीस  days of  lent  differently .
In most Western traditions  the   sundays   हैं  not  गिने  as  भाग  of Lent ; thus  the  period from Ash Wednesday until Easter consists of 40 days  जब  the Sundays are  excluded   .
However in the Roman Catholic Church Lent is now  लिया  to end on  पावन   गुरुवार  rather  than  Easter Eve , and hence lasts  38   दिनों  excluding  sundays  , or  44  days in total .
This event , along with  इसके  pious customs are observed by Catholics , Lutherans , Methodists , Presbyterians , and Anglicans  .
स्थान   of  Chernobyl nuclear power  संयंत्र
The abandoned city of Pripyat  साथ  Chernobyl plant in the  अलहदा
Abandoned housing blocks in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster  (  , Chornobylska Katastrofa  –  Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred  on  26 April 1986 at  the  Chernobyl Nuclear Power  संयंत्र   in  Ukraine ( then officially the Ukrainian SSR )  ,  which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities  of   the  Soviet Union .
an   विस्फोट  and fire released large  quantities   of  radioactive particles into the  माहौल   ,  which spread over  much   of   the  western USSR and Europe .
The Chernobyl disaster is  widely  considered to  have  been the worst nuclear  शक्ति  plant accident in  इतिहास   ,   और  is one of  तभी  two  वर्गीकृत  as  a  level 7 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale ( the other being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011  )  .
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately involved over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated  18  billion rubles .
The official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has  महरूम  disputed  ,  and long-term effects such as  cancers   और  deformities are still being accounted for .
in  grammar  ,  a subject complement  is  a predicative  अभिव्यक्ति  that follows  a  linking verb  (  copula ) and  कि  complements ( completes ) the  विषय  of the sentence by either  (   1  ) renaming it or (  2  ) describing it .
in  the former case , a renaming noun phrase such as a noun  or  pronoun is called a predicative  नाममात्र  .
An adjective following the copula  और   describing  the subject  is  called  a  predicative adjective .
In either case the predicative  पूरक  in effect mirrors the subject .
Subject complements are used  साथ  a small class of verbs  पुकारा  linking verbs or  copula  ,  of   जिससे  be is the most common .
Since copula are stative verbs , subject complements are not  प्रभावित  by any  कार्रवाई   of  the verb .
Subject complements are typically not clause  वितर्क  , nor are they clause adjuncts .
throughout  the fifty-five  साल  history of  the  Grammy Awards ,  अनेक  significant records  have  been  नियत  .
This  पेज   तभी  includes the competitive awards won by various  कलाकारों  .
This does not include the various  खास  awards that are presented  by   the   नेशनल   अकादमी  of Recording Arts and Sciences such as Lifetime  उपलब्धि   पुरस्कार  , Trustees Awards  ,  Technical Awards  or   लेजेंड  Awards  .
The page however does include other  non-performance  related Grammys  (  known as the Craft & Production Fields ) that  may  have been presented to  the  artist  (  s ) .
मार्शल  Bruce Mathers III (  born   अक्तूबर   17  , 1972 ) , better known by his stage name Eminem (  stylized  as EMINƎM ) and by his alter  अहंकार  Slim Shady ,  is  an  अमरीकी  rapper , record producer , songwriter and  कर्ता  .
Eminem , along with  उसके   सोलो  career , is a member  of   उसके  group D12 , and also one half of the hip hop duo  ख़राब  Meets Evil  ,  with Royce da 5'9 '' .
Eminem is one of the  best-selling  artists  in   the  world and is the best-selling artist of the 2000s .
He  रै  been  सूचीबद्ध  and ranked as  एक   of  the greatest artists of all time  by   अनेक  magazines , including Rolling Stone magazine which  क्रमित  him 82nd on its list of The 100 Greatest Artists of All Time  .
The same magazine declared him The King  of  Hip  हॉप  .
Including his  कार्य   साथ  D12 and Bad Meets Evil , Eminem  रै  achieved  टेन  number-one albums on the Billboard 200 .
He has  बेची  more  than  100 million records worldwide , including 42 million tracks and 49.1 million  एल्बम  in the United  राज्य  .
as  an  भूमिगत  rapper Eminem  released  his debut solo album  ,  Infinite in 1996 .
The album  थी  a critical and commercial failure .
He gained mainstream popularity  in  1999 after the release of  उसके  major-label debut album  the  Slim  छायादार  LP .
The LP also  अर्जित  Eminem his  पहला  Grammy Award for  बेहतरीन  Rap  एल्बम  .
His next two records The Marshall Mathers  lp   ,  and The Eminem Show , also won Best Rap Album Grammy  पुरस्कार  , making Eminem the first  कलाकार  to win  बेहतरीन  Rap Album  लिये  three  लगातार  LPs .
This was  followed  by  another   स्टुडियो   रिलीज  in 2004  titled   encore  .
Eminem then went on  अंतराल  after  touring  in 2005 .
He released his  पहला  album in five years titled Relapse , on May 15 , 2009 .
in  2010 ,  एमिनेम  released his seventh  स्टुडियो  album  रिकवरी  .
Recovery was an international success  और  was  नामित  the best selling album of 2010 worldwide , joining The Eminem  दिखाएँ  , which was the best  विक्रेता   of  2002 .
Eminem  जीती  Grammy Awards  लिये  both  पतन  and Recovery  ,   giving  him a total of 13 Grammys  in  his career .
Eminem has opened  अन्य  ventures ,  सहित  his own record label Shady  रिकॉर्ड  with his manager Paul Rosenberg  .
He also  रै  his own radio channel ,  शेड   45  on  sirius  XM  रेडियो  .
एमिनेम  began an  एक्टिंग   करियर  in 2002 , when he  स्ट्रक्चर  in the hip hop drama film 8 Mile .
He won the Academy  पुरस्कार  for  बेहतरीन  Original  सोंग   ,   बनने  the first rap artist ever  to  win  the  award .
He has also  बना   कैमियो  appearances  in  The Wash  (  2001 ) ,  मजेदार   लोगों  ( 2009 ) and  the  television  श्रेणी   अनुगामी  .
The acre is a unit of  क्षेत्रफल  used in  the  imperial  और  U.S. customary systems .
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare – slightly  छोटी   than  an  अमरीकी  football field .
The acre is no longer commonly used , although a few notable exceptions include the United  राज्य  , Australia  ,   बर्मा   और  the United Kingdom ( as  of  2010  ,   the  acre is no  longer  officially used in the United Kingdom  ,   हालांकि  is still used in real estate descriptions )  .
It is still used , to some extent , in Canada .
The international symbol of the acre is ac  ,  and is defined as 1/640 of a  वर्गाकार  mile .
The most commonly used acre today is the international acre .
In the United States  दोनो  the international acre and  the  slightly different US survey  एकड़  are in use .
The most common use of the acre is to measure  tracts   of  land .
One international acre is defined  as  4046.8564224 square metres  .
During the Middle Ages  ,  an acre was the amount of land that could be plowed in one day with  a  yoke of oxen  .
एंटोनी  Lavoisier 's discovery of the Law of Conservation of Mass led to many new findings in the 19th century .
Joseph Proust 's law of  definite   proportions   और  John Dalton 's atomic theory branched from the discoveries of Antoine Lavoisier .
Lavoisier 's quantitative experiments revealed that  दहन  involved oxygen  बल्कि  than what  थी  previously thought  to   be  phlogiston  .
The law  of  conservation of mass , or  principle  of mass conservation ,  राज्य  that for  कोई  system closed  to  all transfers of matter and energy (  दोनो  of which have mass  )  ,  the  mass  of   the  system must remain constant over  समय  , as system mass can not change quantity  if  it is  नहीं  added or removed .
Hence , the quantity of mass is `` conserved '' over time .
The law implies  कि  mass can neither  be   निर्मित  nor destroyed  ,  although it may be  rearranged  in  स्पेस  , or  the  entities associated with  it  may be changed in form  ,  as for example  जब  light or physical work is transformed into particles  कि   योगदान  the same mass  to  the system as the light or work  था   contributed  .
The law implies ( requires )  कि  during any  रासायनिक  reaction , nuclear reaction ,  or  radioactive decay in an  पृथक  system ,  the  mass of the reactants  or   starting  material must equal the mass of the products  .
The concept of  द्रव्यमान   संरक्षण  is widely used in many fields such as chemistry ,  यांत्रिकी  , and fluid dynamics .
Historically , mass conservation was discovered in chemical reactions  by  Antoine Lavoisier in the late 18th  सदी  , and was of crucial importance in the progress  इससे   alchemy  to the  आधुनिक  natural science of chemistry .
The closely related concept of matter conservation  थी  found  to  hold good  in  chemistry to such  ऊँची   सन्निकटन  that it failed only for the  ऊँची  energies treated by  the  later refinements of relativity theory , but  वरना   remains  useful  और  sufficiently accurate for most chemical  calculations  , even  in  modern  अभ्यास  .
In special relativity  ,  needed for accuracy when large energy transfers between systems is  शामिल   ,   the  difference between thermodynamically closed and isolated systems becomes important ,  चूंकि  conservation of mass is strictly and perfectly  upheld  only for so-called  पृथक   प्रणालियों  , i.e . those completely  पृथक   इससे   सब  exchanges with the environment .
In this  परिस्थिति  ,  the  mass-energy equivalence theorem states  कि  mass conservation  is  equivalent to total  उर्जा  conservation , which is the  पहला  law of thermodynamics .
By  कंट्रास्ट  , for  a  thermodynamically closed  प्रणाली   (  i.e. ,  एक  which  is   बंद  to exchanges of matter , but open to exchanges of non-material  उर्जा  ,  ऐसे  as heat and work , with the  परिवेश   )  mass is ( usually ) only approximately conserved .
The input or output of non-material energy must  बदलें  the mass  of  the  प्रणाली  in relativity  सिद्धान्त  , although the change is usually small , since relatively  विशाल   amounts  of  ऐसे  energy  (  by comparison with  ordinary  experience ) carry only a small amount of mass (  again  by ordinary standards of measurement ) .
in   खास  relativity , mass is not converted to  उर्जा  , since energy in all of  इसके  forms always retains  इसके  equivalent amount of  द्रव्यमान   throughout  any transformation or translocation  into  ,  or  out  of  ,  a   प्रणाली  .
however   ,  certain types of matter (  a  different  अवधारणा  ) may be converted to energy ,  so  long  as  the  द्रव्यमान  of the system is unchanged in the process .
However ,  if  such energy is removed from systems , they must  खोना   the  mass that is associated with it .
In general relativity , mass ( and energy  )  conservation in expanding volumes of space is a  जटिल   अवधारणा   ,  subject  to  different definitions , and neither mass nor energy  is  as strictly and  बस  conserved  as  is the case in special relativity and  in  Minkowski  स्पेस  .
For a discussion ,  देखिए  mass  in   सामान्य  relativity .
A pig  is  any of the animals in the genus  सस  , within the Suidae family  of  even-toed ungulates .
Pigs include the domestic pig  ,  its ancestor the wild boar , and several other wild relatives .
Young and small pigs are  ज्ञात  as piglets .
Pigs are  omnivores  and are highly social and intelligent  पशु  .
8-inch  ,  -inch  ,  और  -inch floppy disks
8-inch ,  -inch  ( full height )  ,  and  -inch   ड्राइव
a  3.5-inch diskette 's  ``   फ्लॉपी  ''  चुम्बकीय  material , removed  इससे  its housing
A floppy disk , or diskette , is  a  disk storage medium composed of a  डिस्क  of thin and flexible  चुम्बकीय  storage  मीडियम  , sealed  in   a  rectangular plastic carrier lined with fabric that removes dust particles .
They are  पढ़ा  and written by  a  floppy disk  ड्राइव  (  fdd  ) .
फ्लॉपी  disks  ,  initially as  मीडिया  and later in and 3.5-inch ( 90  mm  ) sizes  ,  were  a  ubiquitous form of data  भंडार  and  एक्सचेंज  from  the  mid-1970s well into the  पहला  decade of the 21st century .
by  2010  ,  computer motherboards were rarely manufactured with floppy drive support ;  ``   floppies  could be  प्रयुक्त  as an external  usb   ड्राइव  , but ``  ,  8 `` , and non-standard  ड्राइव   could   तभी  be handled  by  old equipment .
While floppy disk  ड्राइव  still  have   कुछ  limited uses , especially with legacy industrial  कंप्यूटर  equipment , they have  महरूम   superseded  by data storage methods with much greater capacity , such  as  USB flash  ड्राइव  , portable  बाह्य  hard disk drives , optical  discs   ,  memory  ताश   ,  and computer networks  .
An animated diagram of a cutter
In baseball , a cutter , or  काटें  fastball , is a type of fastball which breaks slightly toward the pitcher 's glove side as it reaches home  थाली  .
इस  pitch is somewhere between a slider and a fastball , as it  is  usually  thrown   तेज़  than a slider  लकिन   साथ   अधिक  motion than  a   ठेठ  fastball .
कुछ   pitchers  use a cutter as  a  way to prevent hitters from  expecting  their regular fastballs .
A common  तकनीक   प्रयुक्त  to throw a  कटर  is to use a four-seam  fastball  grip with the baseball set slightly off center  in  the hand .
When a batter  is  able to hit a cutter pitch  ,  it often results in  नरम  contact and an  आसान  out , due to the  पिच  's movement keeping the ball away  इससे  the  चमगादड़  's  मीठी   स्पॉट  .
The cutter  is  typically 2–5 mph slower than a pitcher  's  four-seam  fastball   .
In 2010 , the average  पिच  classified as a cutter by PITCHf/x thrown by a right-handed pitcher was  88.6   किमी  ; the average four-seamer  थी  92.1 mph .
``  कया   it  Takes '' is  a   शक्ति  ballad by American hard rock band Aerosmith .
It was written by Steven Tyler , Joe Perry  ,  and Desmond Child .
It was  released  in 1990 as the third  सिंगल   इससे  Aerosmith 's critically and commercially successful  1989  album Pump .
In the video The Making of Pump , A & R  man  John  kalodner  described the song  as  `` a masterpiece  ''  .
During live performances ,  टायलर  sings the first verse a  cappella  and belts out one  of  his signature screams right before  the   कोरस   .
The album version of the song is  followed  by an untitled  छुपा   track   .
Head of Odysseus from a Greek 2nd century  bc  marble group representing Odysseus blinding Polyphemus , found at the villa of Tiberius at Sperlonga
Detail of an ancient Roman mosaic of Ulysses in Tunisia
odysseus  (  or  ; Greek  :  , ) ,  भी   ज्ञात  by the  रोमन  name Ulysses ( ; ) , was a legendary  यूनानी   किंग   of   ithaca   और  a hero  of   होमर  's epic  कविता  the Odyssey .
Odysseus also plays a key role in  होमर  's Iliad  और  other works  in  that  वही  Epic Cycle .
Husband  of  Penelope , father  of   telemachus  , and son of Laërtes ( or Sisyphus ) and Anticlea , Odysseus is renowned for his brilliance , guile , and versatility ( polytropos ) ,  और  is hence known by the epithet  odysseus  the Cunning  (  mētis , or `` cunning intelligence  ``  ) .
He is most famous for  the  ten eventful years he took  to  return home  बाद   the  decade-long Trojan War and his famous Trojan Horse ploy to  कैप्चर  the city  of  Troy .
erie  is a Statutory Town in Boulder  और  Weld counties in the U.S. state of Colorado .
The population  according   to  the 2010 census is 18,135  और   थी  recorded as 6,291 at the 2000 census  .
The Town  of  Erie is located  बस  west of I-25 for easy  अभिगम  to I-70 , Denver International Airport and Colorado 's entire  सामने  Range  .
Erie 's Planning Area spans 48  वर्गाकार  miles ,  extending  from the north  पक्ष  of State Highway 52 south to State  राजमार्ग  7 , and  between  US 287 on the  वेस्ट  and Interstate 25 to the east .
erie  is approximately 35 minutes from Denver International  विमानक्षेत्र   ,  25 minutes  to  Denver and  20   मिनट्स   इससे  Boulder .
The Board of Trustees serves  as  the legislative and governing body of the Town of Erie and is responsible for establishing Town policies and goals .
The Board has the authority to adopt laws , ordinances  और  resolutions as needed  to  conduct the  कारोबार  of the Town , and by ordinance may enter into contracts  or   intergovernmental   समझौतों  to furnish , receive services or to provide  लिये   सहकारी  service  डिलीवरी  .
Appointed by and serving at the pleasure of the  फलक  of Trustees  ,  the Town Administrator  is  the chief operating and administrative officer of the  कस्बा   और  is responsible for providing professional  नेतृत्व  in the administration and execution of policies and objectives formulated  by  the Board .
The mission of the Erie Police Department is to  communicate  and work with the community to  maintain  a safe environment , prevent crime and  enforce  the  विधि  , while protecting  the   अधिकारों  of all .
Erie Municipal Airport (  eik  )  is  owned and operated by the Town of Erie and is strategically located in the Denver-Boulder metropolitan area  on  Colorado Highway 7 , a little over  तीन  miles west of Interstate 25 .
The main runway is concrete paved and 4,700 feet long  .
The is a home  वीडियो  game console produced by  सोनी  Computer Entertainment .
It is  the  successor to  the  PlayStation 2 , as part  of  the  प्लेस्टेशन  series .
the  PlayStation 3  competes  with Microsoft 's Xbox 360 and Nintendo 's  वी   as  part  of   the  seventh generation of video  खेल  consoles .
It was  पहला  released on November 11 , 2006  ,  in Japan , with international markets following shortly thereafter .
The console was first officially  घोषित  at E3  2005  .
Originally set  लिये  a spring 2006 release date , it was delayed several times until finally hitting stores at the end of  the  year .
It was the first and currently  तभी  console to use Blu-ray  डिस्क  as  इसके  primary storage medium .
प्रमुख  features of the console  शामिल  its unified online gaming service  ,  the  प्लेस्टेशन   संजाल  , and  इसके   कनेक्टिविटी  with the PlayStation Portable and PlayStation Vita , In September  2009   the  updated  प्लेस्टेशन  3 Slim , was released .
This Slim is lighter  और  thinner than the original version , although  it  lacks PlayStation 2 backwards compatibility (  removed  on  बाद  original models ) , but notably featured a re-designed logo and marketing design .
As  of  November 4 , 2012 , 70 million PlayStation 3s have been sold worldwide  .
Its successor ,  प्लेस्टेशन  4 , is  नियत  for a Q4 2013 release .
Salvador  डोमिंगो   फेलिप   jacinto  Dalí  i  Domènech  ,   1st  Marqués de  dalí   de  Pubol  (  May  11  , 1904January 23 , 1989 ) , known as  साल्वाडोर  Dalí ( ) , was a prominent Spanish surrealist  चित्रकार  born in  figueres  , Spain .
Dalí was a skilled draftsman , best known for  the   striking  and  विचित्र   बिंब  in his surrealist work .
His painterly skills are often attributed to  the   influence  of Renaissance  मास्टर्स   .
His  best-known   कार्य  ,  the  Persistence of Memory , was  समाप्त  in 1931 .
Dalí  's  expansive artistic repertoire included film , sculpture  ,  and photography , in  सहयोग  with a range of artists  in  a variety of media .
Dalí attributed his `` love of  सबकुछ  that is  gilded  and excessive , my  जुनून  for luxury and  my  love of oriental clothes ''  to  a self-styled `` Arab lineage '' ,  claiming  that his ancestors were  descended  from the Moors .
Dalí was highly imaginative , and  भी  enjoyed  indulging  in unusual and grandiose behavior .
उसके  eccentric manner and attention-grabbing public actions  sometimes  drew more  ध्यान  than his artwork , to the dismay of  those  who held his work in high  esteem  , and to  the  irritation of his critics .
Philosopher Plato by Silanion
the   मानवता  are academic disciplines that study human culture , using methods  कि  are primarily analytical , critical  ,  or  सट्टे  , and having a significant historical element , as distinguished from the mainly  अनुभवजन्य  approaches of  the   प्राकृतिक  sciences .
The humanities  शामिल  ancient and modern languages , literature ,  दर्शनशास्त्र  , religion , and visual and performing arts  ऐसे  as music  और  theatre .
The humanities that are also regarded as social sciences include history , anthropology  ,  area  अध्ययन  , communication studies ,  सांस्कृतिक   अध्ययन  ,  विधि  , economics  और  linguistics  .
Scholars working in  the  humanities are  sometimes  described as `` humanists  ''   .
However , that term also describes the philosophical position of humanism , which some ``  antihumanist  `` scholars  in  the humanities reject .
Some secondary schools offer humanities classes , usually consisting  of  English literature , global studies , and art .
Human disciplines like  इतिहास   ,  cultural anthropology and psychoanalysis study subject  matters  to which the experimental method does not apply , and they have access instead  to  the comparative method and  तुलनात्मक  research .
The 2005 Blue  रूम  Christmas Tree
The White House Christmas Tree ,  भी  known as the Blue  रूम   क्रिसमस  Tree , is  the   आधिकारिक  indoor Christmas  पेड़   at  the  निवास  of the President  of  the United States  ,  the  श्वेत  House .
The first indoor Christmas tree was installed  in  the White House sometime  in  the  19th  century (  वहीँ  are  varying  claims as to the exact  साल  )  और   चूंकि  1961 the  पेड़  has had a themed motif  at  the discretion of  the   पहला  Lady of the United States  .
The  अध्यक्ष  of the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the head of state and head  of  government of the United  राज्य  .
the  president leads the executive branch of the federal  सरकारी  and  is  the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces .
Article II  of  the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the  अध्यक्ष   और  charges  उसे  with  the  execution of federal law  ,   alongside  the responsibility of  appointing  federal executive , diplomatic , regulatory , and judicial officers , and concluding treaties with foreign powers ,  साथ  the advice and consent of the Senate .
the  president  is  further empowered to grant  संघीय  pardons  और   reprieves   ,  and to convene and adjourn either or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances .
चूंकि  the founding of the United States  ,  the  शक्ति  of the president and the  संघीय  government  have  grown substantially and each  आधुनिक  president , despite  possessing  no formal legislative powers beyond signing or  vetoing  congressionally passed bills ,  is  largely responsible for  dictating  the legislative agenda of his  पार्टी   और  the foreign and domestic policy  of  the United States  .
The president is frequently described as the  सबसे  powerful person in the  संसार  .
The president is indirectly elected by the  लोगों  through the Electoral College to  a  four-year  पद  , and  is  one of  तभी  two  nationally   निर्वाचित  federal officers  ,  the other being the Vice President of the United States .
The Twenty-second  amendment   ,  adopted in 1951 , prohibits  anyone  from ever  होने  elected to the presidency for a third full term .
It  भी  prohibits a  व्यक्ति  from  होने  elected to the presidency more than  एकबार  if that person previously had served as president , or acting  अध्यक्ष  , for more than  दो  years of another person  's  term as president  .
In all  ,  43 individuals have served 55 four-year terms .
On  जनवरी  20 , 2009 , Barack Obama became the 44th and  वर्तमान  president .
On November 6  ,  2012 , he was re-elected and is scheduled to serve until  जनवरी   20  , 2017 .
होश  are physiological capacities of organisms that provide  आंकड़ा   लिये  perception  .
The senses and  उनके   आपरेशन  , classification  ,  and theory are overlapping  विषय  studied  by   a  variety of fields  ,  most  notably   neuroscience   ,  cognitive psychology (  or  cognitive science ) , and philosophy of perception  .
The nervous system  रै   a  specific sensory  प्रणाली  or  अंग  , dedicated to each sense .
Humans have a multitude of senses  .
Sight  (  ophthalmoception ) ,  सुनना  (  audioception  ) , taste  (   gustaoception  ) , smell  (  olfacoception or olfacception ) , and touch ( tactioception ) are the five  traditionally  recognized .
While the ability  to  detect other stimuli beyond those governed by the traditional senses  exists  , including  तापमान  ( thermoception ) , kinesthetic sense ( proprioception ) , pain  (  nociception ) , balance ( equilibrioception )  ,  acceleration ( kinesthesioception ) , and various  आतंरिक  stimuli (  e.g  . the  अलग   chemoreceptors  for detecting salt and carbon dioxide concentrations in the blood ) , only a  छोटी  number  of  these can safely be classified as separate  होश   in  and of themselves .
What constitutes a sense  is   a  matter of  कुछ  debate , leading to  कठिनाइयों  in defining what exactly  a  sense is .
Animals also have  receptors  to sense  the   संसार  around them  ,  with degrees of capability varying greatly between species  .
इंसानो   have  a comparatively weak sense  of  smell  ,  while some  पशु  may lack one or more of  the  traditional five senses .
कुछ  animals may also intake and interpret sensory stimuli in  बहुत  different ways .
Some species of  पशु  are able to sense the world in a  रास्ता  that humans can not , with some species  समर्थ   to  sense  विद्युत  and magnetic fields  ,  and  detect  water pressure  और  currents .
Spiders  (   अनुक्रम  Araneae ) are  air-breathing   arthropods  that have eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that inject  venom   .
They are the  largest  order of arachnids and rank seventh in total species diversity among all  अन्य  groups of  जीवों  .
Spiders are  मिला  worldwide on  प्रत्येक   महाद्वीप  except for Antarctica  ,  and  have  become established in nearly every habitat with  the  exception of air and sea colonization .
As of 2008 , at least  43,678  spider  प्रजाति  , and  109  families  have  been recorded by  taxonomists   ;  however , there has been  भ्रम  within  the   वैज्ञानिक   जातियाँ  as to how  सब  these  परिवारों  should be  वर्गीकृत  , as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900 .
Anatomically , spiders differ  इससे  other arthropods  in   कि  the  usual  body  खण्ड  are fused into two tagmata , the cephalothorax and abdomen , and  joined   by  a small , cylindrical pedicel .
नापसंद  insects , spiders do  नहीं  have antennae .
In all except the most primitive group , the Mesothelae ,  मकड़ियों  have the most centralized  बेचैन   प्रणालियों  of all arthropods , as  सब  their ganglia are fused into one mass in  the  cephalothorax .
Unlike  सबसे  arthropods , spiders have no  extensor  muscles in their limbs and instead extend them by hydraulic pressure  .
Their  abdomens  bear appendages that  have  been modified into  spinnerets  that  extrude  silk from up to six types  of  silk glands  भीतर  their abdomen .
Spider webs vary widely  in  size , shape and the amount of sticky thread used  .
It now appears that the spiral  orb  web may be one of the earliest forms ,  और  spiders that produce  उलझे   cobwebs  are  अधिक  abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders .
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared  in  the Devonian  काल  about , but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets .
सच्चा  spiders have been found in Carboniferous rocks  इससे  , and are very similar to the  सबसे  primitive surviving order , the Mesothelae .
The main groups  of   आधुनिक   मकड़ियों  , Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae  ,  first appeared  in  the Triassic  काल   ,  before .
a  herbivorous species , Bagheera kiplingi , was described in 2008  ,  but all other known species are predators , mostly  preying  on insects  और   on  other spiders , although a few large species also take birds and lizards .
Spiders use a wide range of  रणनीति  to capture  शिकार   :  trapping it in  स्टिकी  webs , lassoing  it  with sticky bolas  ,  mimicking the  शिकार  to avoid detection ,  or  running it down  .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing  कंपन   ,   लकिन  the active hunters have acute vision , and  hunters   of  the genus Portia  दिखाएँ  signs of  प्रज्ञा   in  their choice of tactics and  क्षमता  to develop new ones .
मकड़ियों  ' guts are too narrow to take solids  ,  and they liquidize their food by  बाढ़   it  with digestive enzymes and grinding it with the bases of  उनके  pedipalps , as they  do   नहीं   have  true jaws  .
Male spiders identify themselves by a variety of complex courtship rituals to  avoid  being eaten by the females  .
Males of most species  जीवित  a  few  matings , limited mainly by  उनके   छोटी  life  spans  .
Females weave silk  egg-cases  , each of which may contain hundreds of eggs .
Females  of  many species care for their young , for example by carrying them around or by  sharing   खाना   साथ  them .
a  minority of species are social , building  सांप्रदायिक  webs that may house anywhere  इससे  a few  to  50,000 individuals .
Social behavior  सीमाएँ  from precarious toleration , as  in   the  widow spiders ,  to  co-operative hunting  और   food-sharing  .
हालांकि   सबसे  spiders  सजीव   लिये  at  सबसे  two years , tarantulas and  अन्य  mygalomorph spiders can live up to  25  years  in  captivity .
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans , scientists are now researching the use of  मकड़ी  venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides  .
Spider silk provides a combination  of  lightness  ,  strength and elasticity that is superior  to  that of  सिंथेटिक   सामग्री  ,  और  spider  रेशा  genes have  महरूम  inserted into mammals and plants to see if these can  be  used as silk factories .
as  a result of their wide range of behaviors , spiders have become common  प्रतीकों  in  आर्ट  and mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience , cruelty and creative powers .
Grey 's Anatomy is an American  टेलीविज़न  medical drama that premiered on the American Broadcasting Company  (  ABC  )  , as a mid-season  बदलना   on  March  27  , 2005  .
The series has aired nine seasons , and focuses on the  fictional  lives  of  surgical interns  और  residents as they gradually evolve into seasoned doctors , while trying to maintain personal  जीवनदान  .
The show 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes , who serves as an executive producer , along with Betsy Beers , Mark Gordon , Krista Vernoff  ,  Rob  मकई  ,  चिह्नित  Wilding , and Allan Heinberg .
the  series  थी  created  to  be racially diverse , utilizing a color-blind casting technique .
It is primarily filmed in Los Angeles , California  .
the  series ' protagonist is Dr.  मेरेडिथ  Grey (  एलेन  Pompeo ) ,  जो   originally   is  accepted  into  the residency program at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital .
Meredith  is   आबंटित  to work under Dr. Miranda Bailey ( Chandra Wilson ) ,  साथ  with Dr. Cristina Yang (  सैंड्रा  Oh ) ,  dr.  George O'Malley ( T. R.  नाईट  ) , Dr. Izzie Stevens  (  Katherine  heigl  ) , and Dr. Alex Karev (  जस्टिन  Chambers )  .
following  O'Malley 's death and  स्टीवंस  '  प्रस्थान  , the  हॉस्पिटल  's merger with Mercy  वेस्ट  brings in Dr.  जैक्सन  Avery ( Jesse Williams ) and  dr.   अप्रैल   kepner  ( Sarah Drew ) ,  in  the  छठे   ऋतु  .
the  surgical wing is primarily supervised by Dr. Richard Webber ( James Pickens  ,  Jr.  )  , who is eventually  replaced  by Dr. Derek Shepherd  (   पैट्रिक  Dempsey )  ,  and later Dr. Owen Hunt  (  Kevin  mckidd  ) .
Dr. Preston Burke ( Isaiah  वॉशिंगटन  ) departs at the conclusion  of  the  तीसरा   ऋतु  , and is replaced by  dr.  Erica Hahn ( Brooke Smith )  ,  who leaves the show during the fifth season , and  बाद  Dr.  टेडी  Altman ( Kim Raver ) ,  जो  departs at the end of the eighth season .
Introduced in the second season is Dr.  एडीसन  Montgomery  (   केट   वाल्श  ) , who leaves  the  show at  the  end of the  तीसरा  season , in  अनुक्रम  to launch her  अपना  spin-off medical drama Private Practice .
dr.  Callie Torres  (  Sara Ramirez ) and Dr. Mark Sloan (  eric  Dane ) also  डालें  the show in the second season , while  the  latter dies in the  प्रीमियर  of the ninth  ऋतु  .
Meredith 's  half-sister   ,  Dr. Lexie Grey  (  Chyler Leigh ) , appears from season three and dies at  the  end of season eight .
dr.  Arizona Robbins ( Jessica Capshaw ) is given  श्रेणी  regular status at the beginning of the sixth season  .
धूसर  's  anatomy   is   the  highest-rated drama in the key  18–49   जनसांख्यिकी  .
previously  among  the  overall top-ten  रेटेड  shows in the United  राज्य   ,  Grey 's  anatomy  has been well received  by   आलोचकों   .
Considered  an  impact on  संस्कृति  , the  श्रेणी  has received numerous awards , and has also  महरूम   शामिल  in various critics  '  top  टेन  lists .
The  दिखाएँ   रै  produced several specials , as well as distributed all seasons to  dvd  , and released  a  collection of merchandise .
In 2012 ,  धूसर   's  Anatomy was named  the  fifth-highest revenue  कमाई  show , in terms of advertising per half-hour .
On May 11  ,   2012   ,  the  श्रेणी  was renewed for a ninth season , which premiered on September  27  , 2012 .
schizophrenia  ( or  )  is a mental disorder characterized by a  विश्लेषण   of  thought processes and by a deficit of typical emotional responses .
आम   लक्षण   शामिल  auditory hallucinations  ,  paranoid or  विचित्र  delusions  ,  or disorganized speech and thinking , and it  is   accompanied  by  significant  social or  occupational  dysfunction .
The onset of symptoms typically occurs in  यंग  adulthood , with a global lifetime prevalence of about  0.3–0.7  % .
Diagnosis is based on observed behavior and the patient 's reported  अनुभवों  .
आनुवंशिकी  , early environment , neurobiology , and psychological and social processes appear  to  be  महत्वपूर्ण   contributory  factors ; some recreational  और  prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen symptoms .
Current research is focused  on   the  role of neurobiology , although no single isolated organic cause  रै  been found .
The many possible combinations of symptoms have triggered debate about whether the diagnosis represents a  सिंगल  disorder or a  क्रमांक  of discrete syndromes .
Despite the etymology of the term  इससे  the Greek roots skhizein  (  σχίζειν ,  ``  to split  ''   )  and  phrēn  , phren-  (  φρήν , φρεν-  ;  `` mind '' ) , schizophrenia does not imply a  ``  split personality  ''  , or `` multiple personality disorder  ''  ( which is known these  दिनों  as dissociative  पहचान  disorder ) —a condition with which  it  is often confused  in  public perception .
Rather  ,   the   पद  means a ``  splitting  of mental  कृत्यों  '' , because of  the  symptomatic presentation of  the  illness .
The  mainstay  of treatment is antipsychotic  दवा  ,  जिससे  primarily suppresses dopamine ( and sometimes serotonin  )  receptor  कार्यकलाप  .
Psychotherapy and vocational and social rehabilitation are also important  in  treatment .
In more serious cases—where there  is  risk to self and others— involuntary hospitalization  may  be necessary ,  हालांकि  hospital stays are now shorter  और   कम   बारंबार  than they  एकबार  were .
The  विकार  is thought  मुख्यतः  to  affect  cognition  ,  but it  भी  usually contributes  to  chronic problems with behavior and emotion .
People  साथ  schizophrenia are  संभावित  to have additional ( comorbid )  शर्तें  , including major depression and anxiety disorders ; the  आजीवन  occurrence of substance use  विकार  is almost  50  % .
Social  समस्याएं   ,  such as long-term  बेरोजगारी  , poverty , and  homelessness  are common .
The average life expectancy of people  साथ  the  विकार   is  12 to 15 years less than those without  ,  the result of increased physical  स्वास्थ्य  problems and a higher suicide rate ( about 5  %  ) .
पॉल  Leslie  snider  (  अप्रैल  15 , 1951–August 14 ,  1980  )  थी  the estranged husband and manager of Playboy model Dorothy Stratten ,  जिसको   he   murdered  before killing himself  the  same day .
The Epic of Gilgamesh , an epic poem from  मेसोपोटामिया  , is  amongst  the earliest surviving works of literature  .
the  literary history  of  Gilgamesh begins with  पाँच  independent Sumerian  कविताएं   परिचय  'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ) , king of Uruk .
Four of these were  प्रयुक्त  as  सोर्स  material for a combined epic  in  Akkadian .
This first combined  एपिक  ,  ज्ञात  as  the  `` Old Babylonian '' version , dates  to  the 18th  सदी  BC and is titled after its incipit , Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings  ''  ) .
तभी  a few fragments  of  it have survived .
The later `` Standard Babylonian ''  संस्करण  dates from the 13th  to  the 10th centuries  bc  and bears the incipit Sha  naqba   īmuru  (  ``  He who Saw the Deep '' ) .
Fragments of approximately two thirds of this longer , twelve-tablet version have been recovered .
Some of  the  best copies were discovered in the library  तबाह  of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal .
The story centers on a friendship between  gilgamesh   और  Enkidu  .
Enkidu  is  a wild man created by the gods as Gilgamesh 's equal  to  distract him from oppressing the  लोगों  of Uruk .
साथ  , they journey to the Cedar Mountain to defeat Humbaba , its monstrous guardian  .
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven , which the goddess Ishtar sends to punish Gilgamesh for spurning her advances .
As a punishment for these  क्रियाएँ   ,  the gods sentence Enkidu  to   मौत  .
The second half of the  एपिक   focuses  on Gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu  's  death ,  और   उसके  quest for immortality .
In order to learn  the  secret of eternal life  ,  Gilgamesh undertakes a  long  and perilous journey .
He learns that `` The  जीवन  that you are  seeking  you will never  ढूँढें  .
जब  the  देवताओं  created man  वे  allotted to him death , but life they retained in  उनके  own keeping . ''
This quote  थी  originally attributed to  siduri  in the Old  babylonian  version of the epic , and  तब  attributed to  the  immortal flood hero Utnapishtim  in  the Akkadian version  of  the epic  .
Nevertheless , Gilgamesh 's  कीर्ति  lived on after his  मौत   ,  because of his great building projects , and his account  of  what Utnapishtim told him  happened  during the flood .
the  story has been translated into many  अलग  languages , and Gilgamesh has since become adapted  in  works of  लोकप्रिय  fiction .
a  eukaryote (  or  )  is   an  organism whose cells contain  जटिल  structures enclosed within membranes .
Eukaryotes may more formally be  referred  to as the taxon  eukarya   or   eukaryota  .
The defining membrane-bound structure that sets eukaryotic cells  अलावा  from prokaryotic cells is the nucleus , or nuclear envelope  ,  within which the genetic material is carried .
The presence  of  a  केंद्रक   देता  eukaryotes their name , which  आता  from  the  Greek ( eu , `` good '' ) and  (  karyon  ,  ``  नट   ''  or `` kernel '' ) .
Most eukaryotic cells  भी  contain other membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria , chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus .
All large complex organisms are  eukaryotes  , including animals ,  पौधे  and fungi  .
The group  भी  includes many unicellular organisms .
Cell division in  eukaryotes  is different  इससे  that  in  organisms without a nucleus (  prokaryote  ) .
It  involves  separating the duplicated chromosomes , through movements directed  by   microtubules  .
There  हैं  two types  of  division processes  .
In mitosis , one cell divides  to  produce two  genetically  identical cells  .
In meiosis , which is required in sexual reproduction , one diploid  कोशिका  ( having  दो  instances of each chromosome , one from each  जनक   )  undergoes  recombination   of  each  जोड़ी   of  parental chromosomes , and then two stages of cell division  ,   resulting  in four haploid cells (  गैमीट  ) .
Each gamete has just one complement of chromosomes , each a unique mix of the corresponding  जोड़ी  of parental chromosomes .
Eukaryota  appears  to be monophyletic , and so makes up one of the three domains of  जीवन  .
The two other domains  ,  Bacteria and Archaea , are prokaryotes and  have  none of the above features .
Eukaryotes represent a tiny  अल्पसंख्यक  of  सब  living things ; even in  a  human  देह  there are 10 times more microbes  than  human cells .
However ,  due  to their much larger size their collective worldwide biomass is estimated at about equal to  कि   of  prokaryotes .
They are considered  to  have first developed  लगभग   1.6–2.1  billion years ago .
The use of Internet  सेवाएं   or  software with Internet access  to  defraud  पीड़ितों  or  to   वरना  take advantage of them , for example  by  stealing personal information , which can  भी  lead  to  identity theft .
a  very common  रूप  of Internet fraud  is   the  distribution of rogue  सुरक्षा   तन्त्र   .
अंतरजाल  services  can  be  प्रयुक्त  to present fraudulent solicitations to prospective victims , to  conduct  fraudulent  ट्रांजेक्शन  , or to transmit  the  proceeds of fraud to financial  संस्थानों  or to  अन्य  connected with the  योजना  .
Internet fraud can  occur  in chat rooms  ,  email , message boards , or  on   वेबसाइटों  .
the  International  सुरक्षा  Assistance Force  (   isaf  )  is   a   नाटो  -led security mission in Afghanistan that was established by the United Nations Security Council in  दिसम्बर  2001 by Resolution 1386 , as envisaged by  the  Bonn Agreement .
Its main purpose is to train the Afghan National Security Forces (  ansf   )   और   assist   अफगानिस्तान  in rebuilding  कुंजी  government institutions but is also engaged  in  the 2001-present  युद्ध  with insurgent groups .
ISAF was initially charged  साथ  securing Kabul and  surrounding  areas from  the  Taliban ,  al  Qaeda and  factional  warlords , so as to allow for the establishment of the Afghan  transitional  Administration headed by Hamid  करज़ई  .
In  अक्तूबर  2003 , the UN  सुरक्षा  Council authorized the expansion of the ISAF mission throughout Afghanistan ,  और  ISAF subsequently  विस्तारित   the   मिशन  in four main stages  over  the whole of the  देश  .
From 2006 to 2011 ,  isaf  had been involved  in   increasingly  more  intensive  combat  परिचालन  in southern and eastern Afghanistan .
Troop contributors include  इससे  the United States , United Kingdom  ,  NATO member states and a number  of   अन्य  countries  .
The intensity of the combat faced by  contributing  nations varies greatly , with the United States , United Kingdom , and Canada sustaining the majority  of   हताहत  in intensive combat  परिचालन   ,  with  अन्य  contributors sustaining  significantly  less .
As  of  early 2010 ,  वहीँ  were at least 700 military bases inside  अफगानिस्तान   लकिन  more were expected to be built  in  the coming years  .
About 400 of these were used by American‐led  नाटो  forces and 300 by ANSF .
कोका   (  benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( INN ) is a crystalline tropane alkaloid that  is  obtained  इससे  the leaves of the coca plant  .
The  नाम  comes from `` coca '' and the alkaloid suffix -ine ,  forming   कोका  .
It  is  a stimulant  ,   an  appetite suppressant , and a topical anesthetic .
Biologically , cocaine acts  as  a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor , also known  as  a triple reuptake  inhibitor  (  ट्राई  ) .
It  is  addictive because  of  its effect on the mesolimbic reward pathway .
Unlike  सबसे  molecules  ,  cocaine has  pockets  with both high hydrophilic and lipophilic efficiency , violating the rule  of  hydrophilic-lipophilic balance .
This causes it  to  cross  the  blood–brain barrier  दूर  better than other  psychoactive  chemicals and  may   भी  induce  blood-brain  barrier  विश्लेषण  .
It is illegal to possess , produce ,  or  distribute  कोका  for  non-medicinal  and  non-government-sanctioned  purposes in almost every country .
Whole beef tri-tip rump  ,  roasted medium rare
The tri-tip  is  a cut  of  beef from the  नीचे  sirloin primal  काटें   .
It is a small triangular muscle ,  प्रायः   1.5  to 2.5 lbs . ( 675 to 1,150g ) per side of beef .
The scientific name of this muscle is tensor  fasciae  latae , inserted in the fascia lata , the connective tissue covering  the  quadriceps femoris ,  भी   पुकारा  quadriceps  extensor   ,  a  समूह  of four muscles which in turn insert in the patella , or  घुटना  cap of the animal .
willmar  is a city in ,  और  the county  सीट   of   ,  Kandiyohi County ,  मिनेसोटा   ,  United States .
the  population was 19,610  at   the  2010 census  .
Willmar has been assigned ZIP code 56201 by the United States Postal Service .
U.S . Routes 12 and  71   और  Minnesota State  राजमार्गों  23  और  40 are four of the main  रूट  in the  नगर  .
The Speaker of  the  United States House of Representatives ( or Speaker of the House ) is  the  presiding officer of the chamber .
The office was  स्थापित  in 1789 by Article I , Section 2  of  the  संयुक्त  States Constitution , which  राज्य  in part ,  ``   the  House  of   प्रतिनिधि  shall  chuse  their Speaker ... ''
The  वर्तमान  Speaker  is  John Boehner , a Republican who represents Ohio 's 8th congressional district .
The Constitution does not require that the  स्पीकर  be a Member  of  Congress , but no non-member has  कभी  been elected to  the  office .
The  स्पीकर  is second in the United States presidential line of  उत्तराधिकार  ,  बाद  the Vice President and ahead of the  अध्यक्ष  pro tempore of the U.S. Senate .
Unlike some Westminster system parliaments ,  in  which the  दफ्तर  of Speaker is  माना  non-partisan  ,  in the United States the Speaker of the House is a  नेतृत्व  position  और  the  office-holder  actively works to  नियत  the  बहुमत  party  's  legislative agenda  .
The Speaker usually does not personally preside  over  debates  ,  instead delegating the duty to members  of  the House  इससे  the majority party  .
Aside from duties relating to heading the House  और   the  majority political party , the Speaker also performs administrative and  प्रक्रियात्मक   कृत्यों  , and represents his or her  congressional  district .
a   सायकिल  frame is  the  main component of a  सायकिल  , on to which wheels and  अन्य  components are  fitted  .
The  आधुनिक  and  सबसे  common frame design for  an  upright bicycle  is  based on the safety bicycle , and consists of two triangles  ,  a  प्रमुख  triangle and a  युग्म  rear  त्रिभुज  .
This is known  as  the  डायमंड   फ़्रेम   .
Frames are required to be strong , stiff and light ,  जिससे  they do  by  combining different materials and shapes .
`` Simple gravity pendulum ''  मॉडल  assumes  no   घर्षण  or air  प्रतिरोध  .
An exemplar animation of a pendulum  प्रर्दशित   the  velocity  और  acceleration vectors
A pendulum is a  वज़न  suspended  इससे  a so  कि   it  can swing  freely  .
When a pendulum is displaced  बगलों  from its resting equilibrium position ,  it  is subject to  a  restoring force  due   to   गम्भीरता  that will accelerate  it   वापस  toward  the  equilibrium  स्थिति   .
When released , the restoring force combined with the pendulum  's  mass causes it  to  oscillate about  the  equilibrium position , swinging back and  forth  .
The time for one complete cycle , a left swing  और  a right swing  ,  is called the period .
A  लोलक  swings with a  विशिष्ट  period which depends ( mainly ) on its  लंबाई  .
From its discovery  around   1602  by Galileo Galilei the  नियमित  motion  of  pendulums was used  लिये   timekeeping  , and was the world 's most accurate timekeeping  प्रौद्योगिकी   जबतक  the 1930s .
pendulums  are used to  विनियमित  pendulum clocks , and  हैं  used  in  scientific instruments such as accelerometers and  seismometers   .
historically  they were used as gravimeters  to   माप  the acceleration of gravity in geophysical surveys , and even as a  मानक  of  लंबाई  .
the  word 'pendulum ' is new Latin , from the Latin pendulus , meaning  'टहलतेg  ' .
the  simple gravity pendulum is an idealized mathematical model of a pendulum .
This is a weight ( or bob ) on the end of a massless  cord  suspended  इससे  a , without friction .
When given an initial push  ,   it  will swing back and  forth  at a  निरंतर  amplitude .
Real pendulums  हैं  subject to friction  और  air drag ,  so  the amplitude of their  swings   गिरावट  .
The First Battle of Bull Run , also known as First Manassas ( the name used  by   confederate  forces ) , was fought on July  21  , 1861 , in Prince William  काउंटी  , Virginia , near  the  city of Manassas .
It was the  पहला  major land battle of the  अमरीकी  Civil War .
बस  months  बाद   the  start of  the  war at Fort  sumter  , the Northern public clamored for a march  विरूद्ध   the  Confederate  पूंजी  of Richmond ,  वर्जिनिया   ,  which  वे  expected to bring an early end to  the  rebellion .
Yielding to political pressure , Brig . Gen. Irvin  mcdowell  led his  unseasoned  Union Army  आरपार  Bull Run against  the  equally inexperienced Confederate Army  of  Brig . Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard camped near  manassas   जंक्शन  .
McDowell 's ambitious plan  लिये  a surprise flank attack on the Confederate  बाएँ  was  poorly  executed by his officers  और   मेन  ; nevertheless  ,  the Confederates , who had been planning to attack the Union left flank , found themselves  at   an   आरंभिक  disadvantage .
confederate  reinforcements under Brig  .  Gen. Joseph E. Johnston arrived from the Shenandoah  घाटी  by  रेलरोड  and the course of the battle quickly changed .
A brigade of Virginians under a relatively  अनजान   कर्नल  from the Virginia Military Institute , Thomas J.  जैक्सन   ,  stood  उनके  ground and Jackson received his famous nickname , `` Stonewall Jackson '' .
The Confederates  तब  launched a  दमदार  counterattack ,  और  as the Union troops began withdrawing under fire  ,  many  panicked   और  it turned into a  rout  as McDowell  's  men frantically ran without order in the direction of Washington  ,  D.C .
Both armies were sobered  by   the  fierce  लड़  and many casualties  ,  and realized the war  थी  going to be much longer  और  bloodier than either  था   anticipated  .
Thunderstorm near Garajau , Madeira
Weather is the state of the atmosphere , to  the  degree that it is hot  or   ठंडा  , wet or dry , calm or  stormy   ,  clear  or  cloudy .
Most  मौसम  phenomena occur in the troposphere , just below the stratosphere .
मौसम  generally  refers  to day-to-day temperature and precipitation activity  ,   whereas  climate is the term  लिये  the  औसत  atmospheric conditions  over  longer periods of time .
जब  used without qualification  ,  ``  मौसम  '' is understood  to  be the weather  of  Earth  .
Weather is driven by air pressure ( temperature  और  moisture  )  differences  between  one place and  another  .
These pressure and  तापमान  differences can occur due to the  सूर्य   कोण  at any particular spot , which varies by latitude from the tropics  .
The strong temperature  कंट्रास्ट   between  polar and  तीव्र  air gives rise to  the  jet  स्ट्रीम   .
Weather systems in  the  mid-latitudes , such as extratropical cyclones  ,  are  caused  by instabilities  of  the jet  स्ट्रीम  flow .
Because the Earth 's  अक्ष  is tilted relative to its orbital plane , sunlight is incident at different angles at different times of the year .
On Earth  's   सतह  , temperatures  प्रायः  range ±40  °c   (   −40  °F to  100  °F ) annually .
Over thousands of years ,  परिवर्तन  in Earth 's orbit  affect  the  राशि  and distribution of  सौर  energy received by the Earth and influence  long-term  climate and global  जलवायु  change .
Surface temperature differences in turn cause pressure differences .
उच्चतर  altitudes  हैं  cooler than lower altitudes  due  to differences in compressional heating .
Weather forecasting is the application  of  science and technology to predict the state of  the  atmosphere for a future  समय  and a given location .
The  माहौल  is a chaotic system ,  so  small changes to one part of the system can grow to have large effects on the system as a whole .
Human attempts to control the weather have occurred throughout human history  ,  and there  is  evidence that human activity such as agriculture and industry has inadvertently  परिवर्धित  weather patterns  .
Studying how the weather works on other planets has been  सहायक  in  समझना  how weather works on Earth .
A famous landmark  in  the  सौर   प्रणाली  , Jupiter  's  Great Red  स्पॉट  , is an anticyclonic storm known to  have   existed  for at least  300  years .
However , weather  is  not limited to planetary bodies .
A star 's corona is constantly  होने  lost to  स्पेस  , creating what is  essentially  a very thin atmosphere throughout the Solar System .
The movement of mass ejected from the Sun is known as the solar wind .
Katy Perry is an American singer-songwriter from Santa Barbara  ,  California .
She  हस्ताक्षरित  with  कैपिटल  Records .
Perry has released three studio albums  ,  including her debut Christian effort Katy Hudson , One of the Boys , and  teenage  Dream .
Perry  's  mainstream career  थी   kicked  off with the massive chart success of her debut single `` I  चूमा  a Girl `` .
दौरान  her career , Perry has been nominated for numerous major music awards , primarily for  teenage   सपना  and One of the Boys .
the   following  is a list of  sovereign  states and territories where English  is  an official language or  भाषा  of  सरकारी   .
In  2012  ,  वहीँ   यहूद   88  states in  कुल  ( 60  sovereign  states  और  28 non-sovereign states )  .
in  many countries English is the dominant language ,  लकिन  does not have official status .
In Australia , English is spoken  by  the  विशाल  majority  of  the population  और  is the only language  प्रयुक्त  in government institutions , but Australia  करता  not have an official language .
The case is  the  same in the United Kingdom and the United States , though many  राज्य   और  regions  भीतर  the U.S.  do  have English as  an  official language  .
English is the dominant  भाषा  of New Zealand and an official language  of  Canada (  साथ  with French ) , India  (  along  साथ  Hindi and several other languages  )  , Ireland  (  along with Irish ) , and the Philippines  (  along  साथ  Tagalog ) .
English is the sole official language of the Commonwealth of  राष्ट्र   और  the Commonwealth  खेल  .
English is one of the official languages of the  संयुक्त  Nations ,  the  European  संघ   और  the International Olympic Committee .
Many  of  these  देशों  are  वर्तमान  or  पूर्व   colonies   or   dependencies  of  the  United Kingdom  (  see  भी  British Empire ) , or  of   the  United States , itself a former  उपनिवेश  of the UK .
Notable exceptions  शामिल  Rwanda , which was a  पूर्व  Belgian colony and Eritrea , which was  an  Italian  उपनिवेश  where  the  British Empire spanned  इसके  control only in World War II and shortly after (  1941-1952   )  .
India 's linguistic picture  is   जटिल  .
According to the  संविधान  of India , `` Hindi in  the  Devanagari script '' is the official language of  the  union ; and English the  'subsidiary  official language ' ; however , English is mandated for the authoritative texts of all federal  कानून  and Supreme Court decisions and ( along with Hindi ) is  एक  of  the  two languages of the  भारतीय  Parliament  .
English is used almost exclusively for higher education , business and science .
Courses in majority of the  स्कूलों  are taught  exclusively  in English .
English is  extensively  used for administrative purposes in  इण्डिया  .
India is the second-largest English-speaking  देश  in the world by  क्रमांक   of  speakers ,  बाद  the United  राज्य  .
As such ,  अनेक  consider English to  be  the de facto official language of India .
See Official languages of India .
The linguistic makeup of Pakistan  is  similarly  जटिल  .
While the  नेशनल  language  is  Urdu  ,   अंग्रेज़ी  is an  आधिकारिक   भाषा   और  used in  कारोबार   ,  government and law .
English is a  अनिवार्य   भाषा  in schools  .
All school courses are taught in English  .
Pakistan  is  the 9th  largest   english-speaking  country in the  संसार  by population .
Southern Cone ( , ) is  a  geographic region composed of the southernmost areas of South America  ,  south of  the  Tropic of Capricorn .
Although geographically this  शामिल  Southern and part of Southeast ( São Paulo )  of  Brazil  ,  in terms of political  भूगोल   the  Southern cone has traditionally comprised  अर्जेंटीना  , Chile ,  पैराग्वे  , and  उरुग्वे  .
In the narrowest  भाव   ,  it  तभी  covers  अर्जेंटीना  , Chile  और   उरुग्वे   ,   bounded  on the north by the  राज्य   of  Brazil , Paraguay  ,  Bolivia and Peru ,  on  the west by the Pacific Ocean ,  और  south to the junction between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans , which it  is   the   closest  continental area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ) .
High  जीवन  expectancy  ,   the  highest  इंसान  Development Index of Latin America  ,  high Standard of living  ,  significant participation in the global markets and  the   उभरते  economy of its members make the Southern Cone  the  most  prosperous  macro-region in South America .
For multi-event athletic  प्रतियोगिताओं  see Track and  फ़ील्ड  Competitions , section `` Meetings '' .
Meetings are sometimes held around conference  टेबल   .
In a  बैठक  , two or more people come  साथ  to discuss one  or  more topics , often in a  औपचारिक  setting .
An official game in baseball , also sometimes called a  विनियमन  game ,  is   a  game that has progressed beyond  the   पाइंट  at which it  can  be considered complete if necessary .
This is approximately the halfway point of the game  .
In  the   मामला  of inclement weather , any game which has reached this point may be  रोका  and shortened as needed , with the result being final  ,  and all records and  आंकडे  counted .
A game  जिससे  has not reached this point before being  रोका  is  either  considered a  निलंबित  game ( to be continued at  a  later date from the point of stoppage  )  ,  or   is  simply canceled and  replayed  from the start .
(  This depends on the rules  of  each individual league . )
In either case , no statistics are counted until  the  game  becomes  official .
Since most professional baseball games  हैं  nine innings long ,  the  fifth inning  is  used as  the  threshold for an  आधिकारिक  game .
If the visiting team is leading , or the  खेल  is tied ,  the  end  of  the fifth inning marks this point .
If the  घर  team  (  which bats last ) is already ahead  in   the  score , and theoretically would not need its half of the fifth inning , then 41⁄2 innings ( i.e. , the middle of the fifth ) is considered an  आधिकारिक   खेल   .
The game is also considered  आधिकारिक  if the home team  स्कोर  to take the lead in the bottom of the  पांचवां  inning , since the game would end immediately if the same thing happened in the ninth .
in  nearly all cases ,  the  `` official game '' status is used  to  determine whether a rain check will  be  honored for fans holding tickets .
if  a game is  प्रारंभ   लकिन  does not reach the  पाइंट  of becoming official , fans are entitled to a new ticket for the make-up game or (  in  most cases  )  any other available game of their choice  .
If a game is halted after it  becomes  official , the game is simply shortened and no rain check is given .
The  ``  official game  ''   statistic  received some attention during the 1995  ऋतु   ,  when Cal  ripken  , Jr.  थी  approaching the record  लिये  consecutive  खेल  played  ,  previously held by Lou Gehrig .
विशाल  numbers  यहूद  hung on the side of the B & O  गोदाम  at Oriole Park at Camden Yards to show  the  number of games  in  Ripken 's streak .
Each day , a  नई  number was unfurled during the fifth inning after each  खेल   था  become official ( since the  statistic  would  नहीं  have counted  if  the game had been stopped before  कि  point ) .
A similar  अभ्यास  has  महरूम   प्रयुक्त  to count  bas   toward   the  demolition of several stadiums ( including Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia in 2003 , Busch Memorial Stadium in St. Louis in 2005 , and the original  यांकी  Stadium  और  Shea Stadium in New York City in  2008  ) ; as each game became official , the team  होता  unveil a new (  निम्नतर  )  क्रमांक  showing the number of  खेल  left  to  be played in  the   स्टेडियम  .
A telephone  क्रमांक   or  phone number  is  a sequence of  अंक  used to  कॉल  from  एक  telephone line to another in  a  public switched telephone network .
When telephone numbers were invented ,  वे  were  छोटी  — as few as  एक   ,  two or three digits — and were given orally  to  a  switchboard   ऑपरेटर  .
as  phone systems have grown  और   interconnected  to encompass the world  ,  telephone numbers  have  become longer .
In addition  to  telephones , they  अभी  access other devices , such as computers  और   फैक्स  machines .
The  क्रमांक  contains  the  information necessary to identify uniquely  the  intended  endpoint  for the telephone  कॉल  .
Each  ऐसे  endpoint must have a unique number within the public  switched  telephone network .
Most  देशों  use fixed length numbers ( for normal  लाइनों   at  least  )   और  therefore the number of endpoints determines the necessary length of  the  telephone number .
It is also possible for each subscriber to have a set of shorter numbers for the endpoints most often used .
These  ``  shorthand  ''  or `` speed calling ''  संख्याएँ  are automatically translated to unique telephone numbers before the call can be connected .
Some  खास  services have their  अपना  short numbers ( e.g. ,  1-1-9  , 9-1-1 , 0-0-0 , 9-9-9  ,  1-1-1 , and 1-1-2 being the Emergency Services  संख्याएँ   लिये  China  ,  Japan , South Korea , Taiwan  और  Sri Lanka ; Canada and the United States  ;   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  ; the United  किंगडम  , Ireland ,  दक्षिण  Africa , Poland , Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , Morocco , Macao , Bahrain , Qatar , Bangladesh , Botswana ,  घाना  , Kenya  ,  Hong Kong , Malaysia , Mauritius , Singapore , Zimbabwe  ,  Trinidad , Tobago ; New Zealand ; Kuwait and the European Union  ,  respectively . )
Many systems also allow  काल्स  within  a  local area  to  be made  बगैर   डायलिंग  the local area code .
For  उदाहरण  , a phone number in North  अमेरिका  will start  साथ  three numbers ( such as 661 ) , which is the area code , followed  by  seven  अंक  split into sections  of  three  और  four ( such as 550-1212 )  ,   जिससे  is the local number .
Some areas  अभी  have mandatory  ten-digit   डायलिंग  in place ,  भी  for local calls .
Most telephone networks today (  अपवाद   होने  private intercom and  सुरक्षित  phone  संजाल  ) are  interconnected  in the international telephone network  ,  where the format  of  telephone numbers is  मानकीकृत  by ITU-T in  the  recommendation E.164 .
This specifies that  the  entire number should  be  15  अंक  or  shorter  , and begin with a country prefix .
लिये  most countries  ,  this is followed  by  an area code or city code and the subscriber number ,  जिससे  might consist of the  कोड  for a  particular  telephone exchange .
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes how to represent an international telephone number in writing or  छपाई  , starting with a plus sign  (  `` + '' ) and the country code .
When calling an international number from a fixed line phone ,  the  + must be replaced  साथ  the international  कॉल   उपसर्ग  chosen  by  the country  the  call is being made from .
Some mobile phones  allow  the +  to  be entered directly .
The format and allocation of local phone numbers are controlled by each nation 's respective government , either  सीधे  or  by  sponsored organizations ( such as NANPA overseen by NeuStar Inc. ) .
Before a telephone  कॉल  is connected  ,   the  telephone number must be  dialed  by the calling party or  कॉलर  .
The called party  might   have  equipment that presents caller ID  पहले  the call is answered .
A collection agency is a business  कि   pursues  payments of debts  owed  by  individuals  or businesses .
सबसे  collection agencies  operate   as  agents  of   लेनदारों  and collect debts for  a   शुल्क  or percentage of the total amount owed .
There are many types  of  collection  एजेंसियों   .
First-party agencies are oftentimes  subsidiaries  of the  असली   कम्पनी  the debt is  owed  to  .
Third-party agencies are separate companies  contracted  by a company to collect debts on  उनके  behalf for a  शुल्क  .
Debt  खरीदार  purchase the debt at a percentage of its value  ,  then attempt to collect it .
Each country has its own rules and regulations regarding  उन्हें  .
कैनबिस   पुष्प  with  दृश्य  trichomes
Cannabis , also known  as  marijuana ( from  the  Mexican  स्पेनी  marihuana ) ,  और  by other  names  , is a preparation of  the  Cannabis  संयंत्र  intended for use as a psychoactive drug and  as   आयुर्विज्ञान  .
Pharmacologically , the principal psychoactive constituent of cannabis  is  tetrahydrocannabinol  (  THC ) ;  it   is  one of 483 known compounds in the plant , including at  तनिक  84 other cannabinoids , such as cannabidiol ( CBD ) , cannabinol  (  CBN  )   ,  tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ) .
और  cannabigerol ( CBG ) .
This is  a  list of American  फ़ुटबॉल  quarterbacks  जो  have started for the Washington Redskins ,  as  well as its predecessors  the  Boston Braves ( 1932  )  and Boston Redskins (  1933  – 1936  )  ,  in   the  National Football  लीग   (   एनएफएल   )  .
The Washington Redskins franchise was  originally  founded in Boston , Massachusetts as  the   बोस्टन  Braves , named  बाद  the  लोकल   बेसबॉल  franchise .
the  name was changed the following  साल  to the Redskins .
In 1937  ,  the franchise moved to  वॉशिंगटन  ,  d.c   .
Of  the  49 Redskins starting quarterbacks , two have been inducted  into   the   प्रो  Football Hall of  कीर्ति  :  सैमी  Baugh and  सन्नी  Jurgensen  .
Robert Griffin III  2012-present
जेसन   कैम्पबेल  2005-2009
Mark Burnell 2004-2007
चिह्नित  Rypien  1986-1993
Joe Theismann 1974-1985
Sammy Baugh 1937-1952
1st Special Forces Operational  detachment-delta  ( 1st SFOD-D ) , popularly  ज्ञात  as Delta  फ़ोर्स  , is one of  the  United States ' four secretive tier-one counter-terrorism and Special Mission Units .
It  थी  formerly listed as  the  Combat  अनुप्रयोग  Group  by  the Department of Defense but has since been officially re-designated the Army Compartmented Elements ( ACE ) .
While 1st  sfod-d  is administratively supported  by  USASOC , it falls under  the   operational  control of  the  Joint Special Operations  कमांड   .
Delta Force and its Navy counterpart , the Naval Special Warfare Development Group , are the  संयुक्त  States military 's primary counter-terrorism units .
डेल्टा  Force 's primary tasks are counter-terrorism  ,  direct action , and  नेशनल  intervention operations , although it is an extremely versatile  समूह  capable  of  conducting many types of covert  मिशन   ,  including ,  लकिन  not limited to , hostage rescues and  छापे   .
The Central Intelligence Agency 's highly secretive Special Activities Division (  उदास  ) and more  specifically   इसके  elite Special Operations Group ( SOG  )  often works  साथ  – and recruits – operators from Delta Force .
Alpha  क्षय  is one example type of radioactive  क्षय  , in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha  कण  ,  और   thereby  transforms ( or 'decays  '   )  into an atom with a mass  क्रमांक   4  less and atomic number 2 less .
Many other types  of  decays are possible .
Radioactive decay , also known as nuclear decay  or   radioactivity  , is the process  by  which a nucleus  of  an unstable atom loses  उर्जा   by  emitting particles of ionizing radiation  .
A material that spontaneously emits this  दयालु   of  radiation — which  शामिल   the  emission of energetic alpha particles  ,  beta particles ,  और  gamma rays — is considered radioactive .
There are  अनेक   अलग  types of radioactive decay ( see table below ) .
A  क्षय  , or loss of energy , results when an atom with one type  of  nucleus , called the parent radionuclide , transforms to an atom with a  केंद्रक  in a  अलग  state , or to a  अलग  nucleus containing different numbers of protons and neutrons .
Either of  ये  products is named  the   बेटी  nuclide .
In some decays the  जनक  and daughter are different  रासायनिक  elements , and thus the decay process  परिणाम  in nuclear transmutation  (  creation  of  an  अणु  of a new element )  .
the  first decay processes to be discovered were alpha decay , beta decay ,  और  gamma decay  .
Alpha  क्षय  occurs when  the  nucleus  ejects  an alpha  कण  ( helium nucleus ) .
This is the most  आम  process  of  emitting nucleons , but  in  rarer types of  decays  , nuclei  can  eject protons , or specific nuclei of  अन्य  elements (  in  the process called cluster decay ) .
Beta decay  occurs  when the nucleus emits an  इलेक्ट्रॉन   or   positron  and a type of neutrino  ,  in a process that changes a proton  to  a  न्यूट्रॉन  or the other way around .
The nucleus  may   कैप्चर   an  orbiting  इलेक्ट्रॉन  ,  converting   a  proton into a neutron ( electron capture ) .
All of  ये  processes result in  नाभिकीय  transmutation .
By contrast , there exist radioactive  क्षय   प्रक्रियाओं  that  do  not result in transmutation  .
the  energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a gamma  रे  in gamma  क्षय   ,  or  प्रयुक्त  to eject an orbital electron  by  interaction with  the  excited nucleus in  a   प्रक्रम   पुकारा   आतंरिक  conversion .
radioisotopes  occasionally emit neutrons  ,   और  this results in  a  change in an element from one isotope to another .
One type of radioactive  क्षय  results in products which are not defined , but appear  in  a  दायरा  of  ``  pieces '' of  the  original nucleus  .
इस  decay is called spontaneous fission .
इस  decay happens when a large unstable nucleus spontaneously splits into two ( and  occasionally   तीन  ) smaller  बेटी  nuclei  ,   और  usually emits gamma rays ,  neutrons  , or other particles  as  a consequence .
Radioactive decay is a stochastic (  i.e.  , random )  प्रक्रम  at the level of single atoms , in that , according to quantum theory  ,  it is impossible to  भविष्यवाणी   जब  a particular  अणु  will decay .
However , the  मौका  that a  दिए  atom will decay is  निरंतर  over  समय  .
For a large number of atoms , the  क्षय  rate for the collection is computable from the measured decay constants of the  न्यूक्लाइड  ( or equivalently from the  half-lifes  ) .
Waxing is a form of  semi-permanent  hair removal which removes the hair from  the  root  .
New  बाल   होगा  not grow back in the previously waxed area for  दो  to eight weeks , although some people will start  to  see regrowth in  तभी  a week .
Almost any area of the body can be waxed , including eyebrows , face , bikini  क्षेत्रफल  , legs , arms , back , abdomen and feet  .
There are many  प्रकार  of waxing suitable for removing unwanted hair .
Strip waxing is  संपन्नता  by spreading a wax thinly over the  स्किन   .
a  cloth or paper strip is then pressed  on  the top and ripped off the direction of hair growth .
इस  removes the wax  साथ  with the hair .
Strip wax can also be made at home using lemon juice  ,  water , sugar and honey .
Hot waxing utilizes Hot wax  (  as opposed to strip  मोम  ) .
In this case  ,  the wax is applied somewhat  thickly  and with no cloth or paper strips .
The wax then hardens  जब  it cools ,  यूँ  allowing the easy removal by a therapist without the aid of  cloths  .
This waxing method  is   बहुत  beneficial to people  जो  have  संवेदनशील   स्किन  .
Wall painting (  1st  century AD )  इससे   pompeii  depicting  a  multigenerational banquet
Ancient Roman culture existed throughout  the  almost 1200-year  इतिहास  of the civilization of Ancient Rome .
The term  refers  to the culture of the  रोमन  Republic , later the  रोमन   साम्राज्य  , which , at its peak , covered  an  area from Lowland Scotland and Morocco to the Euphrates .
जीवन  in ancient Rome revolved around  the  city  of  Rome , its famed seven hills ,  और  its monumental structures such  as  the Flavian Amphitheatre ( now called the Colosseum ) ,  the  Forum of Trajan , and the Pantheon .
The city also had several theaters ,  gymnasiums  ,  और   अनेक  taverns , baths  ,   और  brothels .
Throughout  the   territory  under  प्राचीन  Rome 's control ,  आवासीय  architecture ranged  इससे  very modest houses  to  country villas ,  और  in  the   पूंजी  city of Rome , there  यहूद  imperial residences on the elegant Palatine  हिल  , from which  the  word palace is derived .
The vast majority of  the  population  जिया  in the city center , packed into insulae  (  apartment blocks  )  .
The city of Rome was the  largest   megalopolis  of that time , with a population that  may  well have exceeded one million  लोगों  , with a high end estimate of 3.6 million  और  a  कम  end  अनुमान  of 450,000 .
Historical estimates indicate that around 30 percent of the population under the city 's jurisdiction  जिया   in   innumerable   शहरी  centers ,  साथ  population  of  at least 10,000 and several military settlements , a very high  रेट  of urbanization by  pre-industrial  standards .
The most  urbanized  part  of  the Empire was Italy ,  जिससे  had an estimated rate of urbanization of 32 % , the same rate of urbanization  of   इंग्लैण्ड  in 1800 .
Most Roman towns and cities had  a   फ़ोरम  ,  मंदिरों   और  the same type of buildings , on  a  smaller scale ,  as  found in Rome .
The large urban population required an endless  सप्लाई  of food which was  a   जटिल  logistical  कार्य   ,   सहित   acquiring  , transporting ,  storing   और  distribution of food for  रोम   और   अन्य  urban centers .
Italian farms supplied vegetables and fruits , but fish  और  meat were luxuries  .
Aqueducts  यहूद  built  to   लाओ  water to urban centers and wine  और   आयल   यहूद  imported  इससे  Hispania , Gaul and Africa .
There was  a   बहुत  large amount of commerce  between  the provinces  of  the Roman Empire ,  चूंकि  its transportation technology was very efficient .
the  average costs of transport and the technology were comparable with  18th-century  Europe  .
The  बाद  city of Rome did not fill the space within its  प्राचीन  Aurelian walls until after 1870 .
Eighty percent of the population under the  क्षेत्राधिकार  of  प्राचीन  Rome  जिया  in the  countryside  in  settlements   साथ  less  than  10 thousand inhabitants  .
Landlords generally resided in cities  और  their estates were left in the care of farm managers .
the   दुर्दशा  of rural slaves  थी  generally worse than their counterparts working in urban aristocratic households .
To stimulate a higher labor productivity most landlords freed  a  large  क्रमांक  of slaves and many received wages .
Some records indicate that `` as many as  42  people lived in one small farm hut  in  Egypt  ,  while six families owned a  सिंगल   ज़ैतून  tree . '' .
Such  a  rural  पर्यावरण   जारी  to induce migration of  जनसांख्यिकी   to  urban centers until the early 2nd century , when the urban population  रोका  growing and  प्रारंभ   to   मनाही   .
Starting  in  the middle of the  2nd  century BC ,  निजी  Greek culture  थी  increasingly in ascendancy , in spite  of  tirades against the `` softening  ''   प्रभाव  of Hellenized culture  इससे  the conservative moralists  .
By the time of Augustus , cultured  यूनानी  household slaves taught the Roman  यंग  ( sometimes even the girls ) ; chefs  ,  decorators  ,  secretaries , doctors ,  और  hairdressers—all came from the Greek  ईस्ट  .
Greek sculptures adorned Hellenistic landscape gardening on the  palatine   or  in the villas ,  or  were imitated in Roman sculpture  गज  by Greek slaves  .
The Roman cuisine  preserved  in the cookery  किताबे  ascribed to Apicius is essentially  यूनानी  .
Roman writers disdained Latin  लिये   a  cultured Greek style .
Only in law and governance was the  तिरछा   प्रकृति  of  रोम  's accretive culture supreme .
Against this human background , both the urban and rural  सेटिंग  , one of history 's most  influential   सभ्यताओं   took   आकार  , leaving  पीछे  a cultural legacy  कि  survives in part today .
James Joseph `` Duffy ''  waldorf   ,  Jr. ( born August 20 , 1962 ) is an American professional golfer .
Glass  बोतलों  ( for cucumber slices ) on shipping  pallets
A  सोवियत  mayonnaise jar
A  आधुनिक  `` French Kilner '' jar
Glass production involves two main methods – the float glass process , which produces sheet glass  ,  and glassblowing which produces bottles and other containers .
A season is a subdivision of the  साल  , marked by changes in weather , ecology , and hours of daylight  .
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the Earth around the Sun and the tilt of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane of  क्रान्ति  .
In temperate and polar regions , the  सीज़न   हैं   चिह्नित   by  changes  in  the intensity of sunlight  कि  reaches the Earth 's surface , variations of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate ,  और  plants to be dormant .
दौरान   may  , June and July , the northern  गोलार्ध  is exposed to more  सीधा  sunlight because  the  hemisphere faces the sun .
The same is  सच्चा  of the southern  गोलार्ध   in  November  ,  December and January  .
it  is  the   झुकाव  of  the  Earth that  कल्याणकारी  the Sun to  be   उच्चतर  in the sky during  the  summer  महीने  which increases the solar flux .
However  ,  due to seasonal lag , June , July and August  हैं  the  hottest   महीने  in the northern hemisphere and December  ,  January and  फ़रवरी  are the hottest  महीने  in the southern hemisphere .
In temperate  और   subpolar  regions ,  generally   चार  calendar -based seasons  (  with their adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ) , summer ( estival  )  ,  पतझड़  ( autumnal ) and winter  (   hibernal  ) .
However , ecologists mostly  उपयोग  a six season model for temperate climate regions that  शामिल   pre-spring   (  prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as  पृथक  seasons along with the traditional four  .
Hot regions have two  or   तीन  seasons ; the rainy ( or wet , or monsoon ) season and  the  dry season , and in some tropical  क्षेत्रों  ,  a  cool  or  mild season .
in   कुछ  parts of the world ,  खास  `` seasons ''  हैं   loosely  defined  आधारित  on important events  ऐसे  as  a   hurricane  season , tornado season or a wildfire season .
The six ecological seasons
the  four calendar seasons  ,  depicted in an ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
The  बैटल   of  Fort Sumter (  अप्रैल  12–14 ,  1861   )  was the bombardment and surrender of  फोर्ट  Sumter , near Charleston , South Carolina , that started the American Civil War  .
following   घोषणाओं  of secession by seven Southern states , South  कैरोलिना  demanded  कि   the  U.S.  फौज  abandon its  सुविधाएं  in Charleston Harbor .
On  दिसम्बर  26 ,  1860  ,  u.S.   प्रमुख  Robert  एंडरसन  surreptitiously moved  उसके  small command  इससे  the indefensible Fort Moultrie on Sullivan 's Island  to  Fort Sumter ,  a   substantial  fortress controlling the entrance of Charleston Harbor  .
An attempt by  u.S.  President James  बुकानन  to reinforce  और  resupply Anderson , using  the  unarmed merchant ship Star  of   the  West , failed when it was  fired  upon by shore  बैटरी  on  जनवरी  9 ,  1861  .
South  कैरोलिना  authorities then seized all  संघीय  property in the Charleston area , except  लिये  Fort Sumter .
During the early months of  1861   ,  the situation around Fort Sumter increasingly began  to  resemble a siege .
In March , Brig  .  Gen.  P.  G. T. Beauregard  ,   the  first general  अधिकारी   of  the  newly  formed  confederate   राज्य  of America , was placed in command of Confederate forces in  चार्ल्सटन   .
Beauregard energetically directed  the   strengthening   of  batteries around Charleston harbor aimed at Fort Sumter .
शर्तें  in the fort grew  dire  as the Union soldiers  rushed  to complete the installation of additional guns  .
एंडरसन   थी  short of men  ,   खाना   ,   और  supplies .
the  resupply  of   फोर्ट  Sumter became  the  first crisis of the administration of President  अब्राहम  Lincoln .
He  notified  the Governor  of   दक्षिण   कैरोलिना  , Francis W. Pickens , that he was sending supply  जहाजों  , which resulted in an ultimatum from the  confederate  government : evacuate Fort Sumter immediately .
Major Anderson refused to surrender .
Beginning at 4:30 a.m. on April 12  ,   the   confederates  bombarded the fort from  तोपखाने  batteries surrounding the  हार्बर   .
Although the Union garrison returned fire ,  वे  were  significantly  outgunned  और  , after 34 hours , Major Anderson  सहमत   to  evacuate .
There was no loss of life on either side as a direct result  of  this engagement , although a gun explosion during the surrender ceremonies on  अप्रैल   14  caused two Union deaths .
Following  the   बैटल   ,  there was  फैली  support from both North  और  South for further military action .
Lincoln 's immediate call for  75,000  volunteers to  दबाने   the  rebellion resulted in an additional four southern slave states also declaring their secession and joining the Confederacy .
The Civil War had  begun  .
3g   ,  short  लिये  third Generation  ,  is the third generation of  मोबाईल  telecommunications technology .
3G telecommunication networks support services that provide an information transfer rate of at least 200 kbit/s  .
However , many services advertised as 3G provide higher  गति  than the minimum technical requirements  लिये  a  3g  service .
Recent 3G releases , often denoted 3.5G and 3.75G , also  provide  mobile  ब्रॉडबैंड   अभिगम  of several  mbit/s  to smartphones and mobile  modems   in  laptop computers  .
3G finds application  in   बेतार  voice telephony , mobile  अंतरजाल  access ,  फिक्स्ड  wireless Internet  अभिगम  , video calls and mobile TV .
`` Mazel Tov ! '' written on a wine glass tag
Traditionally ,  बाद  the  दूल्हे  breaks the glass ,  the  guests  चिल्लाओ  `` Mazel  tov  ! ``  .
A birthday cake , iced with the words `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov )  ,  as is  प्रायः  done in Israel  .
यहाँ  the phrase is written in Hebrew  कर्सिव  .
``  Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( Hebrew / Yiddish  :  ``  מזל  טוב '' ,  यहूदी  : `` mazal  tov  '' ;  यहूदी  : `` mazel tov '' ; lit .
`` good  लक  '' ) is a phrase  प्रयुक्त  to express congratulations  लिये  a happy and significant occasion or event .
Hepatitis  c   is   an  infectious  बीमारी  affecting primarily the liver , caused by the hepatitis  c  virus ( HCV ) .
The infection  is   प्रायः   asymptomatic  , but chronic  संक्रमण  can lead to scarring of the liver and ultimately to cirrhosis  ,  which is generally apparent  बाद  many years .
In some cases  ,  those with cirrhosis  होगा   go  on  to  develop liver failure , liver cancer or  life-threatening  esophageal and gastric varices .
HCV is spread  primarily  by blood-to-blood contact  संबद्ध   साथ   intravenous  drug use  ,  poorly sterilized  चिकित्सा  equipment and transfusions .
An estimated 130–200  लाख  people worldwide are infected with .
the  existence of ( originally  ``  non-  a  non- B hepatitis  ''   )   थी  postulated  in  the 1970s and proven in 1989 .
only infects humans and  chimpanzees  .
The virus  persists  in the liver in about 85  %  of those infected .
इस  persistent infection can be treated with medication : the  मानक  therapy  is  a combination of peginterferon and ribavirin  ,  with either boceprevir or telaprevir added in some cases  .
overall  , 50–80 % of  लोगों  treated are cured .
Those who develop cirrhosis or liver  कर्कट  may require a liver transplant  .
is the  अग्रणी  cause of liver  प्रत्यारोपण  , though the virus usually recurs after  प्रत्यारोपण  .
No vaccine against is available .
A flexible spending account  (  FSA ) , also known as a flexible spending arrangement , is one of a number of  tax-advantaged  financial accounts that can be set  up  through a cafeteria plan of an employer in the United States  .
An FSA allows an  कर्मचारी  to set aside a  portion  of earnings to pay for  योग्य  expenses as established in  the  cafeteria plan ,  सबसे   commonly  for  चिकित्सा  expenses but often for dependent care  or  other expenses .
Money deducted  इससे  an employee  's  pay into  an   fsa  is not subject to payroll taxes , resulting  in  substantial payroll  कर  savings  .
One  significant  disadvantage to using  an  FSA is that funds not used by  the  end  of  the plan year are lost to the employee , known as the ``  उपयोग  it or lose it '' rule .
The most common  प्रकार  of  लचीली   बिता  account ,  the  medical expense FSA ( also medical FSA or health FSA ) , is similar  to  a health savings account  (  HSA ) or a health reimbursement account  (  HRA ) .
However  ,  while HSAs and HRAs are  लगभग   exclusively  used as components of a consumer driven health care plan , medical FSAs are commonly  offered   साथ  more traditional health plans as well  .
In  जोड  , funds in  a  health savings  खाता  are  नहीं  lost when the plan year is  over  , unlike funds in an FSA .
Paper forms or an FSA debit card , also known as  a  Flexcard , may be  प्रयुक्त   to  access the  खाता  funds  .
Tennessee ( )  (  )  is  a U.S.  राज्य  located in the Southeastern United States .
Tennessee is the  36th  most extensive and the 17th most  populous  of the  50  United States  .
Tennessee is  bordered  by  केंटकी  and Virginia to the north ,  उत्तर  Carolina to  the  east ,  जॉर्जिया   ,  Alabama , and Mississippi to the  दक्षिण  , and Arkansas and  मिसौरी  to the west .
The Appalachian Mountains  dominate  the  पूर्वी   भाग  of the state  ,  and the  मिसिसिपी  River forms the  राज्य  's western border .
Tennessee 's capital  और  second largest city is Nashville  ,  which has a  जनसांख्यिकी   of  609,644 .
Memphis  is  the state 's largest  नगर  ,  साथ   a  population of 652,050 .
the  state of Tennessee  is  rooted  in  the Watauga Association , a 1772 frontier pact generally regarded as the first constitutional government west of the  appalachians   .
What  is  now Tennessee  थी  initially part  of  North Carolina  ,  and later part  of  the Southwest Territory .
Tennessee was admitted to the Union as the 16th state on June 1 , 1796 .
टेनेसी  was the last state to leave the  संघ  and  जुड़ें   the  Confederacy at the outbreak of the U.S. Civil War  in  1861 , and the first  राज्य   to  be  readmitted  to the Union at the  समाप्त  of  the  war  .
Tennessee furnished more soldiers for the Confederate Army than any other state ,  और   अधिक  soldiers for  the   संघ  Army than any other Southern  राज्य  .
In the 20th century , Tennessee transitioned from  an  agrarian economy to  a  more diversified economy  ,  aided at  टाइम्स  by federal  entities  such as the Tennessee Valley Authority  .
in  the  जल्दी   1940s   ,  the city of Oak Ridge was established to house the Manhattan Project 's uranium enrichment  सुविधाएं  , helping  to  build the world 's first  परमाणु  bomb .
Tennessee has played a critical role in the development of many forms  of  American popular music ,  सहित  rock and roll , blues , country  ,  and rockabilly .
beale   गली  in Memphis is considered by many to be  the   जन्मस्थान  of the  ब्लूज़  , with musicians such  as  W.C . Handy performing  in  its clubs as early as 1909 .
Memphis was also home to Sun Records , where musicians such as Elvis Presley , Isaac Hayes , Johnny Cash , Carl Perkins , Jerry Lee Lewis  ,   रॉय  Orbison , and Charlie Rich began their recording careers , and where rock and roll  took  shape in the 1950s .
The 1927 Victor  रिकॉर्डिंग  sessions in Bristol generally mark the beginning of the country music genre and the  वृद्धि  of the Grand  ओले  Opry in the 1930s helped  मेक   नैशविले  the center of the country music recording  उद्योग  .
Three bricks and mortar museums recognize Tennessee 's  भूमिका   in  nurturing various forms of popular music : the Memphis  चट्टान   n  '  आत्मा  Museum , the Country Music Hall  of  Fame  और  Museum in Nashville , and the International  rock-a-billy   संग्रहालय  in Jackson .
In addition ,  the  Rockabilly  हॉल  of Fame  ,  an online site recognizing  the  development of rockabilly in which Tennessee played a crucial  भूमिका  , is based  in  Nashville .
Tennessee 's major industries include agriculture  ,   निर्माण  , and tourism .
Poultry  ,   soybeans  ,  और  cattle are  the  state 's primary agricultural products , and major manufacturing exports include chemicals , transportation equipment , and electrical equipment .
the  Great Smoky Mountains National  पार्क  , the nation 's most visited national park , is headquartered in the eastern  भाग   of  the state , and a section of the Appalachian Trail roughly  फ़ॉलो  the Tennessee-North Carolina border .
Other major tourist attractions include the  टेनेसी   एक्वेरियम  in Chattanooga  ,  the  sunsphere  in Knoxville , Dollywood in Pigeon Forge  ,  the Parthenon , the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum  ,   और  Ryman Auditorium  in   नैशविले  , and Elvis Presley 's Graceland residence and tomb in Memphis .
One  डिज़ाइन   रूपांतर  of  a  cock ring .
A cock ring  is   a  ring that can be  लगाई  around a man 's  शिश्न  ,  प्रायः   at  the base , primarily to slow the flow of blood from  the  erect penile tissue ,  यूँ   maintaining  an erection for  a  much  longer  period  of   समय  .
मुर्गा  rings can be worn  around   बस  the penis  or  both the penis and scrotum , or just the scrotum alone ,  हालांकि  this is usually called a testicle  कफ   .
Rings  can  be  बना   of  a variety of different  सामग्री  , most commonly  चमड़े  , rubber , or silicone , though nylon and  मेटल  are  भी   प्रयुक्त  either as the main component or part of the closure .
The term cock ring is sometimes used as a synonym for a  प्रिंस  Albert piercing , a piercing of the  शिश्न  that is  प्रायः  ,  हालांकि  not always  ,   a   मेटल  ring .
When  प्रयुक्त  in  मामले  of erectile  dysfunction  they are known  by  various names such  as   ``  erection  रिंग  '' and ``  टेंशन  ring '' .
The headquarters of  प्रमुख  League Baseball at  245  Park Avenue , Midtown Manhattan  ,  New York City , USA .
Major  लीग   बेसबॉल   (  MLB  )   is  a professional  बेसबॉल   लीग  , consisting of teams that play  in  the National League and  the  American  लीग  .
Dating to 1876 and 1901 respectively , the  दो  leagues merged in  2000  into a single organization led by the Commissioner of Baseball  ,  after  100   सालो  as separate legal entities  .
MLB constitutes one  of  the  प्रमुख  professional sports  लीग  of the United  राज्य  and Canada  .
It  is  composed of  30   टीमों  — 29 in  the  United States and  एक   in   कनाडा  .
Teams in MLB play 162 games each season over six  महीने  ( April  through  September ) .
Five teams in each league  अग्रिम  to  a  four-round postseason tournament that culminates in the World Series  ,  a best-of-seven-games championship series  between  the  दो   लीग  champions  जिससे  dates to  1903   .
The organization oversees  अनेक  minor-league  बेसबॉल  leagues which operate about 240 teams affiliated with the major-league clubs .
With  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Baseball  संघ  , the league also manages  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   संसार  Baseball Classic tournament .
MLB  रै  the  उच्चतम  season attendance of  कोई  sports league  in  the  संसार  with  nearly  75 million spectators  in   2012  .
Delaware ( ) is a U.S. state located on the Atlantic  coast  in  the  Mid-Atlantic  प्रदेश  of the United States .
It is bordered to the south and  वेस्ट  by Maryland , to the  पूर्वोत्तर   by  New Jersey , and to the north  by  Pennsylvania .
The state takes its  नाम  from Thomas West ,  3rd  Baron De La Warr , an English nobleman and Virginia 's first colonial governor , after whom what is now called Cape Henlopen was originally named  .
डेलावेयर  is located in the  northeastern  portion of the Delmarva Peninsula and is the second  smallest  , the sixth  तनिक   populous  , but the sixth most densely populated of the fifty United States .
Delaware is divided into  तीन  counties  .
From  उत्तर  to  दक्षिण  ,  ये  three counties are New Castle , Kent ,  और  Sussex  .
जबकि  the southern two counties have historically been  predominantly   agricultural  ,  नई  Castle County has been  अधिक  industrialized .
Before its coastline  थी  explored by  europeans  in  the  16th century , Delaware was inhabited by several groups  of  Native Americans  ,  including the Lenape in the north and  nanticoke  in the south .
It  थी   initially  colonized by  डच  traders at Zwaanendael , located near  the   उपस्थित  town of Lewes  ,  in 1631 .
Delaware was  एक  of  the  13 colonies participating in  the  American  क्रान्ति  and on December 7  ,  1787 , became the  पहला  state to ratify  the  Constitution of the  संयुक्त  States , thereby becoming known as The  पहला  State .
उर्जा   परिवर्तन   in  Energy Systems Language
Energy transformation or energy conversion is the  प्रक्रम   of  changing one  रूप   of   उर्जा  to another  .
In physics ,  the   पद   उर्जा  describes the capacity to produce certain changes within a system , without regard to limitations  in   परिवर्तन  imposed by Entropy .
Changes in total energy of systems can only be accomplished by adding  or  subtracting energy from them , as energy is  a  quantity which is conserved , according to  the  first law  of  thermodynamics .
According  to  special relativity ,  परिवर्तन  in the energy of systems will  भी  coincide with changes  in  the system  's  mass , and  the  total amount of mass of a system is a  माप  of  इसके  energy .
Energy in  a  system  may  be transformed  so  that it  resides  in a different state , or a different type of  उर्जा  .
Energy in many states  may  be used  to  do many varieties  of  physical work  .
Energy may be used  in  natural processes or  मशीने  , or else to  provide  some service to society ( such as heat , light , or motion )  .
लिये  example  ,  an internal combustion engine converts the potential chemical  उर्जा  in gasoline and oxygen into  ऊष्मा   ,   जिससे  is  तब   रूपांतरित  into the propulsive energy ( kinetic energy that moves a  गाडी  ) .
A solar cell converts solar radiation  into  electrical  उर्जा  that can  तब  be  प्रयुक्त   to  light a bulb  or  power a computer .
The generic name for a device which converts energy  इससे  one form to another , is a transducer .
In general , most types of energy  ,   सहेजें  for  थर्मल   उर्जा  , may be  परिवर्तित  efficiently  to  any  अन्य  kind  of  energy .
Sometimes  इस  occurs with an efficiency of essentially 100 % , such  as  when potential energy is converted to kinetic energy as an object falls in vacuum ,  or   जब  it orbits  nearer   or  farther from another object  ,   in  space  .
Conversion of  अन्य  types of energies to heat may also occurs with nearly perfect efficiency  (   अनेक  types of friction do this )  .
अपवाद  for perfect conversion efficiency ( even for  पृथक   प्रणालियों   )   occur  when energy has already  महरूम  partly  वितरित  among many  उपलब्धियाँ   क्वांटम  states for  a  collection  of  particles ,  जिससे  are  freely  allowed to explore  कोई  state  of  momentum  और  position ( phase space ) .
in  such circumstances , a measure called Entropy , or evening-out of  उर्जा  distribution in such states , dictates that  भविष्य   राज्य  of the system  जरूर  be of at least equal evenness  in  energy  वितरण  .
(  वहीँ   is   no   रास्ता  , taking  the  universe as a whole , to collect energy into fewer states  ,  once it  रै  spread to them ) .
a  consequence  of  this  आवश्यकता  is that  वहीँ   हैं  limitations  to  the  दक्षता  with which thermal energy can be converted  to   अन्य  kinds  of   उर्जा  , since thermal  उर्जा  in  संतुलन  at  a   दिए   तापमान  already represents the maximal  evening-out  of energy  between  all possible states .
Such energy is  sometimes  considered `` degraded  उर्जा  , ''  क्युकी  it is not entirely  usable  .
The second  विधि  of thermodynamics is a  रास्ता  of stating that , for this reason  ,  thermal energy in a system may be converted to other kinds of energy with  efficiencies  approaching 100  %   ,  only  if  the entropy  (  even-ness  or  disorder  )  of the universe is increased by other  अर्थात्  , to compensate for  the   घटी   in  entropy associated with  the  disappearance of  the  thermal energy and its entropy content .
वरना  , only a part of  थर्मल   उर्जा  may  be  converted to other kinds  of  energy ( and thus , useful work ) , since the remainder of the heat must be  सुरक्षित  to  be  transferred to a  थर्मल  reservoir at a lower temperature , in such  a  way that the increase in Entropy for this process  अधिक   than  compensates  लिये  the entropy decrease associated with  परिवर्तन  of the rest of the heat into other types of  उर्जा  .
The  नेशनल   हॉकी  League ( NHL ; ) is an ``  unincorporated   not-for-profit  association '' which operates a major professional ice hockey league of 30  franchised  member clubs , of which seven are currently located in Canada  और   23  in the United States .
Headquartered in  नई  York City , the NHL is  widely   माना  to be the premier professional  बर्फ  hockey  लीग   in  the world , and one of  the  major professional sports leagues in the United  राज्य   और   कनाडा   .
The Stanley Cup , the oldest professional sports trophy  in  North  अमेरिका  , is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end  of  each season .
The league was  व्यवस्थित  on November 26  ,  1917 , in  मॉन्ट्रियल  , Quebec , Canada , after the suspension of operations of its predecessor organization , the National Hockey Association ( NHA  )  , which had been founded in  1909  .
It started with four teams  और  , through a series  of  expansions  ,  contractions ,  और  relocations  ,   the  league is  अभी  composed of 30 active franchises .
the   स्वदेश  to which the  नाम  of the league  originally  referred was  कनाडा  , although the league has  अभी  been binational since 1924  जब  it  विस्तारित  into the United States .
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation  of  the  संपूर्ण  2004–05 season , the league resumed play under a  नई  collective bargaining agreement that included a  सैलरी  cap .
In 2009 , the NHL enjoyed record highs in terms  of  sponsorships , attendance , and television  ऑडियंस  .
The NHL draws many highly skilled players from all over the world and currently has players from about  20  different countries .
Although Canadians have  historically   गठित   the  majority of the players in the NHL , over the past  चार  plus decades  the  percentages of US and European players have increased both because  of   the  NHL 's  जारी  expansion from  छह  to thirty clubs since  1967   ,  and the increased availability  of   अत्यधिक   skilled  European  खिलाड़ी  .
This is  the   पूरा  list of the ratified and unratified amendments  to   the  United States  संविधान  which  प्राप्त  the approval of the United States Congress  .
Twenty-seven amendments have been ratified  चूंकि  the  असली  signing of  the  Constitution  ,  the first  टेन  of which are known  collectively   as  the Bill of  अधिकारों  .
The procedure  लिये  amending the United States Constitution is governed by Article V of the original text .
There have been many other proposals for  amendments  to the United States Constitution  introduced  in Congress , but not submitted  to   the  states  .
Before an amendment can  लो  effect ,  it  must  be  proposed to  the   राज्य  by a two-thirds vote  of   दोनो   घरों  of Congress or by a convention  (  known  as  an Article V convention  )   पुकारा  by two-thirds of the  राज्य  , and ratified by three-fourths of the states or by three-fourths of conventions thereof  ,  the method of ratification being determined by  कॉंग्रेस  at the time  of  proposal .
To date , no convention for proposing amendments has been called by  the  states , and  तभी  once—in  1933  for the ratification of the twenty-first  amendment  —has the convention method of ratification been employed  .
fmr  LLC ( Fidelity Management and Research )  or   वफ़ादारी  Investments  is  an  अमरीकी  multinational financial services corporation .
It  is  one of the  largest  mutual fund and financial services groups in the  संसार  .
It was founded in  1946   और  serves North American investors  .
Fidelity Ventures is its venture capital  भुजा  .
Fidelity International Limited ( FIL ) , was  an  international affiliate founded in 1969 , serving  सबसे  countries in the rest of the world .
In September  2011  , FIL  थी  rebranded  as  'Fidelity Worldwide Investment ' .
Fidelity  निवेश   manages  a large family of mutual funds , provides fund  वितरण  and investment advice services , as well  as  providing discount  brokerage   सेवाएं  , retirement  सेवाएं  , wealth management , securities execution and  क्लीयरेंस  , life insurance and a number of  अन्य  services .
June 2006 was the sixth month of that year .
it  began  on   a  Thursday  और  ended after 30  दिनों  on a Friday  the  following events also  occurred  during the month:
Sociology is the  वैज्ञानिक  study  of  human society and its  origins  , development  ,  organizations , and institutions .
It is a social science which uses various methods of  अनुभवजन्य   छानबीन  and critical analysis to develop a body of knowledge about human social activity , structures , and functions .
A goal for many  sociologists  is to  conduct  research which may be  लागू  directly to social policy and  welfare  , while others focus  primarily   on  refining the theoretical  समझना  of social  प्रक्रियाओं  .
विषय  matter  सीमाएँ   इससे  the micro level  of  individual agency and interaction to the macro level of  प्रणालियों  and the social structure .
The traditional focuses  of  sociology  शामिल  social stratification  ,  social class , culture , race and ethnicity  ,  gender and  कामुकता  , social mobility ,  धर्म  , secularization , law , and  deviance  .
As all  spheres  of  इंसान  activity are affected  by   the  interplay between social  ढांचा  and individual  एजेंसी  , sociology  रै  gradually expanded its focus to further subjects , such as health ,  चिकित्सा   ,  military and  penal  institutions , the Internet , environmental sociology , political economy and the role  of   सोशल  activity in the development of scientific knowledge .
the  range of social scientific methods has also expanded .
Social  शोधकर्ताओं  draw upon a variety of qualitative  और  quantitative techniques .
The linguistic  और  cultural turns of the mid-twentieth century led  to  increasingly interpretative  ,  hermeneutic ,  और   philosophic  approaches  to  the  विश्लेषण  of society .
Conversely , recent decades have  देखी  the rise of new analytically , mathematically and computationally rigorous techniques ,  ऐसे  as  agent-based  modelling and social network analysis .
Sociology should  नहीं   be  confused with  विभिन्न  general  सोशल  studies courses which bear  छोटी  relation to sociological theory or social science research methodology  .
Thunder is  the  sound caused by lightning .
Depending on the nature of the lightning and  अलहदा  of the  श्रोता  ,  थंडर  can range from a sharp , loud crack to  a  long , low rumble  (   brontide  )  .
The sudden increase in pressure and temperature from lightning produces  रैपिड  expansion of  the  air surrounding and  भीतर  a  bolt  of lightning .
In turn ,  इस  expansion of air creates a sonic shock wave ,  समान  to a sonic boom , which produces the sound of thunder , often referred to as a  clap  , crack ,  or  peal of thunder .
The  अलहदा   of  the lightning can be calculated  by  the listener based on the time interval from when the lightning  is  seen to when the sound is heard .
Palma ( , ,  )  , in full Palma de Mallorca , is the major  नगर  and port on  the  island of Majorca ( Mallorca ) and capital city  of  the autonomous  जातियाँ   of  the Balearic  आइलैंड्स  in Spain  .
The names Ciutat de  mallorca  ( City of Majorca ) and  ciutat  ( City )  यहूद  used before the War of the Spanish Succession and are still used by people in Majorca .
however  , the  आधिकारिक  name was  mallorca  , the  वही  as the island .
It is situated on  the   दक्षिण   coast  of  the  island on  the  Bay of Palma  .
as  of  the  2009 census , the population of the city of Palma proper  थी   401,270   ,  and  the  population of the entire urban area was 517,285 , ranking  as   the   बारहवीं  largest  शहरी  area of  स्पेन   .
Almost half of the total population  of  Majorca live in Palma .
The  cabrera  Archipelago , though widely separated from  पालमा  proper , is administratively considered part of the municipality .
Its airport , Son Sant Joan , serves over 22  लाख  passengers each year .
The Marivent Palace was offered by the city to the then Prince Juan Carlos I of Spain .
The  रॉयल्स  have since spent their summer holidays in Palma .
Luthor redirects here .
For other uses , see Luther  (  disambiguation )  .
Alexander Joseph ``  लेक्स  '' Luthor is  a  fictional character , a supervillain appearing in comic  किताबे  published by DC  कॉमिक्स  .
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman ,  और   as  a high-status supervillain , has also come  into  conflict with Batman and other superheroes in the DC  ब्रह्मांड  .
Created by Jerry Siegel and Joe  shuster   ,  the character first appeared in  कार्रवाई  Comics #  23  ( April  1940  ) .
Luthor  is  described as  ``  a power-mad , evil  वैज्ञानिक  '' of high intelligence and incredible technological prowess .
Luthor 's goals typically center on killing Superman , the foremost obstacle  to  achieving the villain 's megalomaniacal goals .
despite   periodically  wearing  a  powered exoskeleton , Luthor has  traditionally  lacked superpowers  or  a dual  पहचान   .
The character was originally depicted as a  mad  scientist who , in the vein of pulp novels , wreaks havoc  on  the  संसार  with his  अत्याधुनिक  weaponry  .
In his  earliest   दिखावे   ,  Luthor is  दिखाया  with a  पूरा  head of red hair .
Despite this  ,   the  character later became hairless as  the  result of an artist 's mistake  .
A 1960  स्टोरी  by  जेरी  Siegel expanded upon Luthor 's  उत्पत्ति  and  motivations   ,   revealing  him to  be   a  childhood  dost  of Superman 's  जो  lost his hair when a  आग  destroyed his  प्रयोगशाला  ;  luthor  vowed revenge .
Following  the  1985 limited series Crisis  on  Infinite Earths , the character was re-imagined  as  a Machiavellian industrialist and  white-collar   दण्ड  ,  भी  briefly  सेवारत  as President of the  संयुक्त  States .
In recent years ,  विभिन्न  writers  have  revived Luthor 's mad scientist persona from the 1940s .
The character was  क्रमित   as   the  8th  महानतम  Villain by Wizard on its 100 Greatest Villains of All  समय  list .
ign  's list of the Top  100  Comic Book Villains of  सब  Time ranked Luthor as # 4 .
Luthor  is  also described as a `` megavillain '' by comic book critic Peter Sanderson , one of  a  few genre-crossing villains  जिनकी  adventures take  प्लेस  `` in  a  world in  जिससे  the ordinary laws of nature are slightly suspended '' ; characters such as  प्राध्यापक  Moriarty , Count Dracula  ,  Hannibal Lecter , Doctor Doom , and Darth Vader , also  अनुरूप  this description  .
Martin Luther King ,  jr.  Day  is  a United States federal holiday  अंकन  the birthday of Rev  .  Dr. Martin Luther King , Jr .
It is  observed  on the third Monday of January  प्रत्येक   साल  , which is around the time of King 's birthday , January  15  .
The floating holiday is similar  to  holidays set under  the  Uniform Monday  अवकाश  Act , though the  अधिनियम  predated  the   स्थापना   of  Martin Luther King , Jr. Day by  15  years  .
किंग  was the  मुख्य  spokesman  लिये  nonviolent activism in the civil rights movement , which  सफलतापूर्वक  protested racial discrimination  in  federal  और  state  विधि  .
The campaign for a federal holiday in King  's   सम्मान  began soon after  उसके   हत्या  in 1968 .
Ronald Reagan signed the holiday into law in 1983 , and it was  पहला  observed  on  January 20 ,  1986  .
At first , some states resisted observing the holiday as  ऐसे  , giving it alternative names or combining it  साथ  other holidays .
It was officially observed  in  all 50 states for the first  समय  in 2000 .
The camera phone solution allows instant sharing of pictures .
As it  's  automatic and instant , the user does not have  to  use a cable or  removable  media  to  connect  to  a personal computer .
A camera phone is a mobile phone  जिससे  is able to capture still photographs (  और  usually video ) .
Since early in the  21st   सदी  the majority  of  mobile phones in use are  कैमरा   फोन  .
Most camera phones are simpler than separate  डिजिटल  cameras .
Their usual fixed  फ़ोकस   lenses  and smaller sensors limit their performance in poor lighting .
Lacking  a   शारीरिक  shutter  ,  most have  a  long shutter lag .
Flash , where present , is usually weak .
Optical zoom  और  tripod screws are rare .
Some also lack a USB  कनेक्शन  , removable memory card ,  or  other way of transferring their pictures  अधिक  quickly  than  by the phone 's inherent communication feature .
Some of the more  महंगी   कैमरा   फोन  have only a few  of  these technical  disadvantages   ,  which  लागू  most acutely in low  लाइट   शर्तें  and in any case have not inhibited their widespread use .
सबसे  model  लाइनों  improve  in   ये  regards every year or two  .
कुछ  , such as the  droid  Incredible only have a menu choice to start an  अनुप्रयोग   कार्यक्रम  to activate  the  camera .
Others ,  ऐसे   as   the  BlackBerry Storm 2 , Droid X , Motorola V980 and Nokia 5800 also  have  a separate  कैमरा  button for quickness and  convenience   .
Windows Phones can  be  configured to operate as  a  camera even if the phone is  asleep  .
Some camera phones are designed  to  resemble separate  low-end  digital compact  कैमरे  in appearance and to some extent in features and picture quality  ,   और  are branded as both mobile phones and cameras , including certain  सोनी  phones .
The principal advantages of camera phones  हैं  cost and  compactness  ; indeed for  a  user who carries a mobile  फोन  anyway , the additional size  और   लागत  are negligible .
Smartphones that are camera phones may run mobile applications to add  सामर्थ्य  such as geotagging and  चित्र   stitching  .
A few high  समाप्त   फोन  can use  उनके  touch screen to direct their camera to  फ़ोकस  on a  particular  object in the field of view  ,  giving even an inexperienced  उपयोक्ता   a  degree of focus control  exceeded  only by seasoned photographers using manual focus  .
``  whatever  Happened to the Man  of  Tomorrow ?  ''  is a 1986 comic  किताब   स्टोरी   featuring  the  dc  Comics character  of  Superman .
लिखा  by Alan Moore with help from long-time , and soon to be retiring ,  सुपरमैन  editor , Julius Schwartz ,  the  story was published in two parts , beginning in  सुपरमैन  # 423 and ending in Action Comics  #  583 ,  दोनो  published in September 1986  .
the  story was drawn by long-time artist Curt Swan , in  उसके   फाइनल  major contribution  to  the  सुपरमैन  titles , and was inked by George Pérez in  the  issue of Superman and Kurt  schaffenberger  in  the  issue  of  Action Comics .
The story was an imaginary  टेल  which  बताई  the final story of  the  Silver  आयु   सुपरमैन  and his  long  history , which was being rebooted  following   the  events of Crisis  on  Infinite Earths ,  पहले  his modern introduction  in   the   जॉन  Byrne series , The Man of Steel .
Moore wanted his  प्लाट  to honor the long history of the  अक्षर  and  to  serve as a complete conclusion to his mythology .
the  story  is  a frame story set ten  सालो  after Superman was last seen  ,  where Lois Lane recounts the tale  of  the  समाप्त  of  सुपरमैन  's career to a reporter from the Daily Planet .
Her story includes numerous violent attacks against Superman by his  दुश्मनों  , the public  रहस्योद्घाटन  of his secret  पहचान  of Clark  केंट  and a number of deaths of  those  closest to him  .
the  story has been cited as one of the  बेहतरीन  stories of the character of Superman , and critics and audiences frequently  चुनें  it as one of the most  यादगार  comics ever published .
It is used as an example of how to close  the   long-time  continuity of a comic book character .
The  स्टोरी  's legacy has endured with similar stories written  as   श्रद्धांजलि   to  it .
The title is a reference to  एक  of  the  nicknames  of   सुपरमैन  as the Man of Tomorrow , and  थी  used  in   the  title of another Superman .
the  Bugatti Veyron  eb  16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car , designed  और   विकसित  by the  volkswagen  Group and  manufactured  in Molsheim ,  फ़्रांस  by  bugatti  Automobiles S.A.S .
The Super Sport version  of  the Veyron is the fastest street-legal production car in the world , with a top speed of .
The original version has a top speed of .
It was  नामित  Car of the Decade  (  2000–2009 ) by the BBC television  कार्यक्रम  Top  गियर  .
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best Car Driven  सब  Year  पुरस्कार  in 2005 .
On  6  April  2013  , Bugatti set the record for the fastest roadster in the  संसार  with  the  Veyron  ग्रैंड  Sport Vitesse , reaching on average a  शीर्ष  speed of .
the  Veyron 's chief  पंक्तियां   थी  Hartmut  warkuss  ,  और  the  exterior  was designed  by  Jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen , with much of the engineering  कार्य  being  conducted  under  the  guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber  .
A number of special  विसंगतियाँ   have  been produced .
In  दिसम्बर  2010 , Bugatti began  offering  prospective  खरीदार  the ability to customize  exterior   और   इंटीरियर्स  colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the  marque  's  आधिकारिक   जालस्थल   .
the  institution of the Eucharist has been a key theme  in  the  depictions  of the Last  भोजन  in Christian art , as in this 16th-century Juan de Juanes  पेंटिंग  .
`` At the Last Supper ,  on  the night he was betrayed , our Savior instituted the Eucharistic  बलिदान  of his Body and Blood . ''
( Catechism of the  कैथोलिक  Church  1323   )
Eucharist in the Catholic Church refers  to  both the celebration of the Mass , that  is  , the  eucharist  liturgy  ,   और   the  bread and wine which after the consecration are transubstantiated  (  changed in  पदार्थ  ) into the body and blood of Jesus Christ , Lord  और   परमेश्वर  ,  a   घोषणा  formulated  by  the Council of Trent with an anathema against anyone who  अस्वीकृत  this .
Blessed Sacrament is a  devotional   पद  used in the Roman Catholic Church to refer to the Eucharistic  प्रजाति   (  the Body and Blood of Christ  )  .
The following is a list of colleges  और  universities  in  the U.S.  राज्य  of Louisiana .
A short story is  a  brief work of literature ,  प्रायः  written in narrative prose .
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling traditions in the 17th  सदी  , the  छोटी  story has grown to encompass a body of work  so  diverse as to defy easy characterization .
At its most prototypical  the  short story features a small cast  of  named  वर्ण   ,  and  focuses  on a self-contained incident with the  intent  of evoking a  ``  single effect  ''  or mood .
in  so  doing  , short stories make use of plot , resonance  ,  and other dynamic  components  to a far greater  उपाधि  than  is  typical of an anecdote  ,  yet to a  दूर  lesser  उपाधि  than a novel .
While the short story is largely  पृथक  from the novel ,  लेखक  of both generally  चित्रण  from a common  पूल  of literary  तकनीकों  .
छोटी   कहानियां   have  no set length .
In terms of  शब्द  count there is no  आधिकारिक  demarcation between an anecdote , a  छोटी   स्टोरी  , and  a  novel .
Rather , the form 's parameters are  दिए  by the rhetorical and practical context in which a given  स्टोरी  is  उत्पादित  and considered  ,  so that  कया  constitutes  a  short story may  differ  between  जाति  , countries ,  eras  , and commentators .
Like the  अनोखा   ,   the  short  स्टोरी  's predominant shape  reflects  the  मांगे  of the  उपलब्धियाँ  markets  लिये  publication , and the evolution  of  the form seems closely tied to  the  evolution of the  प्रकाशन  industry and the submission guidelines  of  its constituent  घरों  .
The short  स्टोरी  has been considered both an apprenticeship form preceding more lengthy works  ,  and a  crafted  form in its  अपना   सही   ,   एकत्रित  together  in  books  of  similar  लंबाई  , price , and distribution as novels  .
Short story writers  may   define   उनके   works  as part of  the  artistic and personal expression of the form  .
They may  भी  attempt to resist categorization by genre and fixed form .
Area codes  in  Michigan
Area code 810 is the  टेलीफोन   क्षेत्रफल  code serving  पूर्वी  Michigan  .
The raccoon ( , Procyon lotor )  ,  sometimes spelled racoon , also known  as  the common raccoon , North American raccoon , northern raccoon  और  colloquially as  कून  , is a  medium-sized  mammal native to North America  .
The raccoon is  the  largest of the procyonid family , having a body length of and a body  वज़न  of .
Its  grayish  coat mostly consists of dense underfur which  insulates  against  ठंडा   मौसम   .
Two of the raccoon 's most distinctive features  हैं  its extremely dexterous front paws  और  its facial mask  ,   जिससे   हैं  themes in the mythology of several  देशी  American tribes .
raccoons  are noted for their intelligence , with studies showing that they are  समर्थ  to remember  the   समाधान  to  कार्य  for up  to  three  सालो  .
The diet of the omnivorous  raccoon   ,  which is usually nocturnal  ,  consists of about 40 % invertebrates  ,  33  %  plant foods , and  27  %  vertebrates  .
The original habitats of the raccoon are deciduous and mixed forests  ,  but due to  उनके   adaptability  they have extended their range to mountainous  क्षेत्रों   ,  coastal marshes , and urban areas  ,  where some homeowners consider them  to  be pests .
As a result of escapes and deliberate introductions in the mid-20th century ,  raccoons  are now also  वितरित   आरपार  the  यूरोपीय  mainland , the Caucasus region and  जापानी  .
Though  previously  thought to  be  solitary , there is  अभी  evidence that  raccoons  engage in gender-specific social  बर्ताव  .
Related females often share a common area , while unrelated males live together in groups of up to  चार   पशु  to maintain their positions against foreign  males   दौरान  the mating  ऋतु  ,  और   अन्य  potential invaders .
घर   दायरा   आकार  vary anywhere from 3 hectares ( 7 acres ) for females  in  cities to 50 km2 ( 20  sq  mi )  लिये   males  in prairies .
After a gestation period of about  65  days , two to five  यंग   ,  known as `` kits ''  ,  are  born  in  वसन्त   .
The kits are subsequently  उठाया  by their  माँ  until  dispersion  in late fall .
Although captive  raccoons  have been known to live over  20  years , their average life expectancy  in  the  जंगली  is only 1.8 to  3.1  years .
In many areas , hunting and vehicular injury are the two most  आम  causes of death .
the  2010 Haiti earthquake  थी  a catastrophic magnitude 7.0 Mw  भूकंप  ,  साथ  an epicenter  निकट   the  town of Léogâne ( Ouest Department )  ,  approximately west  of   port-au-prince  , Haiti 's capital .
The earthquake occurred  at  16:53 local time  (  21:53 UTC ) on Tuesday  ,  12 January  2010  .
by  24 January , at least 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or greater had been recorded .
An  अनुमानित   तीन  million  लोगों   यहूद  affected by the quake .
The  उच्चतम  reliable death count was  अनुमानित  at 220,000 .
Haitian  सरकारी  estimates were  उच्चतर  .
The government of  हैती  estimated  कि  250,000 residences and 30,000  वाणिज्यिक   इमारतें  had collapsed or were severely  क्षतिग्रस्त  .
The earthquake caused major damage in Port-au-Prince , Jacmel and other settlements in the  प्रदेश   .
Many  notable  landmark buildings  यहूद   significantly  damaged or destroyed , including the Presidential Palace , the National  सभा   भवन   ,   the  Port-au-Prince  गिरजाघर  , and the main  कारावास  .
Among those killed were  archbishop  of  port-au-prince  Joseph Serge Miot , and opposition leader Micha Gaillard .
The headquarters of  the  United  राष्ट्र  Stabilization Mission  in   हैती  ( MINUSTAH ) ,  स्तिथ  in  the  capital , collapsed  ,  killing  अनेक  , including the Mission 's Chief , Hédi Annabi  .
Many countries responded  to  appeals for  humanitarian  aid ,  pledging   निधि  and dispatching  बचाव  and  चिकित्सा   टीमों  , engineers and support personnel .
Communication systems , air ,  जमीन  , and sea  हस्तांतरण   सुविधाएं  , hospitals , and electrical  संजाल   था  been damaged  by   the  earthquake , which  hampered  rescue  और  aid efforts ; confusion over who  थी  in  चार्ज  ,  एयर   ट्रैफ़िक  congestion ,  और  problems with prioritisation  of   फ़्लाइट  further complicated  जल्दी  relief work .
port-au-prince  's morgues were overwhelmed with tens of thousands of bodies .
ये  had to  be   दफ्न   in  mass graves .
as   छुटकारा  tailed off , supplies  ,   चिकित्सा  care and sanitation  became  priorities .
Delays in aid distribution led  to  angry appeals  इससे  aid  मजदूर  and survivors , and looting and  विरल  violence were observed .
On 22 January  the  United Nations noted that the emergency phase of the relief  आपरेशन  was drawing  to  a  बंद  , and on the following day the  haitian  government officially called off the  ढूंढें  for survivors .
Mister Ed is a fictional talking horse , originally appearing in short stories  by  Walter R. Brooks  ,  and later  in  an American  टेलीविज़न   हालात   कॉमेडी  produced by Filmways  कि  first aired in  अनुप्रयोग  from January 5  to  July 2 ,  1961  , and then on CBS from  अक्तूबर  1 ,  1961  to  फ़रवरी   6   ,   1966  .
The stars  of  the show were Mister Ed ,  a  palomino horse who could `` talk ''  ,   निभाई  by  gelding  Bamboo Harvester and  voiced  by former Western  स्टार  Allan Lane ( who went  uncredited   लिये  the entire length  of  the series )  ,  and  उसके  owner , an eccentric and enormously klutzy , yet friendly ,  वास्तु  named  wilbur  Post ( Alan  यंग  ) .
Much of the program 's  ह्यूमर  stemmed from the fact Mister  ed  would speak only to Wilbur , as well as Ed  's  notoriety as a troublemaker .
Other running jokes centered on Wilbur 's character being a  विशाल  klutz and inadvertently causing  नुक़सान   to  himself or others .
According to  the  show  's   निर्माता  , Arthur Lubin  ,  Young was  चुनी  as the lead  अक्षर   क्युकी  he `` just seemed like the  sort  of guy a horse would talk to '' .
Lubin , a friend of Mae  वेस्ट  , scored a coup by persuading the screen icon to guest star  in  one  एपीसोड   .
In the United States  ,  reruns  aired  on Nick at  नाइट  from March 3 , 1986  ,  to February 1 , 1993 .
Sister station TV Land  भी  reran the  दिखाएँ  from 1996–98 and again from 2003-06  .
The series  is  currently  ब्रॉडकास्ट  every morning on  इस  TV  ,  along with Highway Patrol , and  the  Patty Duke Show .
It is also currently broadcast on  hallmark   फिल्म  Channel .
As of January 1 ,  2011  , the  पहला   दो   सीज़न  of the  दिखाएँ   हैं   उपलब्धियाँ  on Hulu  .
the   rapture  is a term in Christian eschatology  जिससे  refers to  the   ``  being caught up ''  discussed  in 1 Thessalonians  4:17  , when the `` dead  in  Christ  ''  and `` we who  हैं  alive and remain '' will be  ``  caught up in the clouds '' to  मिलें  ``  the  Lord in  the  air '' .
The term `` Rapture '' is used in at least two  होश  .
In the pre-tribulation view ,  a  group of  लोगों  will be left  पीछे  on earth  बाद  another group literally  पत्ते  ``  to  meet the Lord in the air . ''
This  is  now the most common use  of  the  पद  ,  विशेषकर  among fundamentalist Christians and in the  संयुक्त  States .
The  अन्य  , older use of the  पद  `` Rapture  ''  is simply as a synonym  लिये   the  final resurrection generally ,  बगैर  a belief that a group of  लोगों   is  left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period  बाद   the  events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17 .
This  भेद   is  important  as  some types of Christianity never refer to `` the Rapture '' in  धार्मिक   शिक्षा  ,  लकिन   might  use the older  और   अधिक  general  भाव   of  the word `` rapture '' in referring to what happens during  the  final  क़यामत  .
There  हैं   अनेक  views among Christians regarding the timing  of  Christ 's  वापसी  ( including whether it will  occur   in  one event or two ) ,  और  various views regarding the destination of the aerial gathering  वर्णित   in   1  Thessalonians  4  .
Denominations such as  रोमन  Catholics , Orthodox Christians , Lutheran  ईसाइयों  , and Reformed Christians believe in a  rapture  only in the sense of a general final resurrection , when Christ  रिटर्न  a single time .
They do not believe that  a  group of people is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the  कार्यक्रम  of 1 Thessalonians 4:17 .
Pre-tribulation  rapture  theology was  विकसित   in  the 1830s by John  नेल्सन  Darby and the Plymouth Brethren ,  और  popularized  in  the  संयुक्त  States in  the  early 20th century by the wide circulation of the Scofield Reference Bible .
Kris Nathan Humphries ( born February 6  ,  1985  )  is an  अमरीकी  professional basketball  खिलाड़ी  with the Brooklyn Nets  .
The Philistine cities of Gaza , Ashdod  ,  Ashkelon ,  ekron  , and Gath
The Philistines ( , , ,  or   ;  , Plištim  )  , Pleshet or Peleset  ,  were a  लोगों   जो   as  part of the Sea Peoples appeared in the southern coastal area of  canaan   at   the  beginning of the Iron  आयु  ( circa 1175 BC  )  ,  सबसे  probably from  the  Aegean region .
According to the Bible , they ruled the  पाँच  city-states  (  the  ``  Philistine Pentapolis '' ) of Gaza , Ashkelon , Ashdod  ,  Ekron and  gath  , from Wadi Gaza in the  दक्षिण  to the Yarqon River  in  the  उत्तर  , but with  no   फिक्स्ड   किनारा   to   the   ईस्ट  .
The Bible paints  उन्हें  as the Kingdom of Israel 's  सबसे   खतरनाक  enemy  .
Originating somewhere  in  the Aegean , their population was  around  25,000 in the 12th  सदी  BC , rising  to  a  शिखर  of 30,000 in the 11th century BC  ,   of  which  the  Aegean element was not more than half the total , and  शायद  much  कम  .
Nothing is  ज्ञात  for certain  परिचय  the original  भाषा  or languages  of  the Philistines , however they were not part of the Semitic Canaanite population  .
There is  कुछ  limited evidence in favour of the  assumption   कि  the Philistines were  indo-european-speakers  either from  यूनानियों  and/or Luwian speakers from the coast of Asia Minor .
Philistine-related words found in the  बाइबल  are not Semitic , and can in  कुछ  cases , with reservations , be traced back  to  Proto-Indo-European roots .
By the beginning  of  the 1st Millennium BCE they had adopted the general Canaanite  भाषा  of the region .
The  हथियारबंद  Services  वोकेशनल  Aptitude Battery  (   asvab  ) is a  अनेक  choice test ,  administered  by the United  राज्य  Military Entrance Processing  कमांड  ,  प्रयुक्त  to determine qualification for enlistment in the United States armed forces .
it   is  often  offered  to  अमरीकी  high school students  जब  they are in  the  10th , 11th and 12th grade  ,  though  anyone  eligible  लिये  enlistment  may  take it .
हालांकि  the test  is  administered by  the  military , it  is   नहीं  ( and never  रै  been )  a  requirement  कि   a  test-taker with  a   qualifying  score enlist in  the  armed forces .
In financial accounting , a  संतुलन  sheet or statement of financial position is a summary of the financial balances of a sole  बंदोबस्त  , a  कारोबार  partnership , a corporation or other business organization , such as  an  LLC or  an  LLP .
Assets  ,  liabilities and ownership equity are  सूचीबद्ध  as of a specific date  ,  such as  the  end of  इसके  financial year .
A balance sheet is often described as a ``  स्नैपशॉट  of a company 's financial condition ''  .
Of  the  four basic financial  कथन  ,  the  balance sheet is the only statement which applies to a single point in time of  a  business ' calendar year .
A standard company  संतुलन   चादर  has three parts : assets , liabilities and ownership equity .
The main categories of assets are usually  सूचीबद्ध  first ,  और  typically in order of liquidity  .
Assets  हैं  followed by the liabilities .
The difference between the assets and the liabilities is known as  इक्विटी  or the net  एसेट  or the  जाल  worth or capital of  the  company and  according  to the accounting equation , net worth must equal assets minus liabilities  .
Another way  to  look  at  the same equation is that assets equals liabilities plus owner 's  इक्विटी  .
Looking at the equation in  इस   रास्ता   shows  how assets were  financed  : either  by  borrowing money  (   देयता  ) or by using the owner 's money  (   मालिक   's  equity )  .
Balance sheets  हैं  usually presented with  एसेट  in one section and  देनदारी  and net  लायक  in the other section with the two sections `` balancing  .  ''
A business operating  entirely  in  नकदी  can  माप   इसके  profits by withdrawing the entire bank balance at  the   समाप्त   of   the  period , plus  कोई   नकदी  in hand  .
However , many businesses are not paid immediately ; they  निर्माण  up  inventories  of  goods  and they acquire buildings and equipment .
in  other words  :  businesses have assets and so they can not ,  भी   if  they want to  ,   तत्काल  turn  ये  into cash  at  the  समाप्त  of  प्रत्येक  period .
Often , these businesses owe money  to   आपूर्तिकर्ता   और  to  कर  authorities , and  the  proprietors do not withdraw all their original capital and profits at  the  end  of  each period .
In other words businesses  भी  have  देनदारी  .
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire , commonly known  as  the .17 HMR , is a  rimfire   राइफल  cartridge developed by the  ammunition  company Hornady in  2002  .
it  descended from  the  .22 Magnum  by   necking  down  the  .22 Magnum case to take a .17 caliber ( 4.5  mm   )  bullet , and it is more costly to shoot than  परंपरागत  .22 caliber  rimfire  cartridges .
commonly  loaded with a 17 grain ( 1.1 g ) bullet , it can  उद्धार   muzzle  velocities in excess of 2550  ft/s  ( 775  m/s  ) .
the  Schaumburg Flyers were a professional  बेसबॉल  team based in Schaumburg  ,  Illinois , in the United States .
The Flyers were to be a  चार्टर  member of the North American League , which is not  संबद्ध   साथ  Major  लीग  Baseball ,  however   ,  the team folded  in  March 2011 , before they began  खेल  in the  nal  .
From the 1999  ऋतु  to the 2010  ऋतु  , the Flyers played  उनके  home games at Alexian  फ़ील्ड  ,  निकट  the Elgin O'Hare Expressway .
The team  formerly  played in Thunder  खाड़ी  , Ontario  ,   जहाँ   वे  were known as the Thunder Bay Whiskey Jacks .
The team was originally a member  of  the Northern League from 1993 to 2010 .
On  जुलाई  27 , 2009 ,  the  Flyers played host to  बैटल  of the  लिंगों  II , which pitted the Flyers  विरूद्ध  the National Pro  fastpitch  Softball Champions , the Chicago Bandits .
Played  by   आधिकारिक  softball rules , the game  थी   देखी  by an  अतिप्रवाह  record  भीड  of 8,918 ,  और   थी  won by the Bandits  4-2  .
In  1999  , the  flyers  hired their first manager ,  रॉन   kittle   .
Kittle  is   बेहतरीन  known for his playing  दिनों  with the Chicago White Sox ,  और  former Chicago Cubs  और  White Sox player Greg Hibbard was the  pitching  coach  .
During  the  early years of the franchise , Kittle did  a  series of TV commercials to  प्रचार   the  team , using  the   gimmick   ``  Ma Kittle . ''  जहाँ  he played both himself and his `` Ma . ''
the  ads were successful  at  sparking some initial interest in the team as the Flyers hoped to steal away  प्रशंसक   इससे  the nearby Kane County Cougars  .
The ad mimicked the highly  कामयाब  Converse ads where Larry Johnson  स्ट्रक्चर  as both himself and `` Gramama .  ''
At  the  end  of  the 2001 season , however  ,  Kittle resigned from his  managerial  position , and Jim Boynewicz was hired to  बदलें   उसे   .
In 2004 ,  the  Flyers made it  to   the  Northern League Championship Series against the St. Paul Saints .
despite  leading the five-game series 2-1  ,  Schaumburg eventually lost the  श्रेणी  .
In Game 5 , Flyers relief pitcher Lyle Prempas allowed  a  game winning grand slam by St. Paul infielder Marc Mirizzi in the ninth inning .
The Flyers appeared in the Northern League Playoffs four times ( 1999 , 2003 , 2004  ,  2006 ) but never  जीती   the   चैंपियनशिप  .
Some famous players who played for the Flyers were former Oakland A  's  outfielder Ozzie Canseco and former Chicago Cubs outfielder  ड्वाइट  Smith .
Rachel Hannah Weisz ( / vice /  ;  born 7 March  1970  ) is an English film  और   थिएटर  actress and former  फ़ैशन  model .
वाइज़   began   उसके  acting career at  ट्रिनिटी  Hall , Cambridge in  the  early 1990s , then started working  in  television  ,  appearing in Inspector Morse  ,  the  अंग्रेजों  mini-series Scarlet and Black , and the  टेलीविज़न  film  अधिवक्ताओं   ii  .
She  बना  her  फिल्मी  début in the film Death Machine ( 1994 ) ,  लकिन  her breakthrough role came  in  the film Chain Reaction ( 1996 ) , leading to a high-profile role as  एवलिन  Carnahan-O'Connell in the films The  मम्मी   (  1999 ) and The Mummy Returns ( 2001 ) .
Other  notable  films featuring Weisz are  दुश्मन  at  the  Gates , About  a  Boy ,  constantine   ,   the  Fountain and The Constant  माली   ,   लिये  which she received an Academy Award ,  a  Golden  ग्लोब  and a Screen Actors  '  Guild award for  उसके  supporting  भूमिका  as Tessa Quayle .
She has been labelled an `` English rose '' since her minor role in Stealing Beauty  (  1996 ) .
Weisz also works in theatre  .
उसके  stage breakthrough was the 1994 revival of Noël Coward 's play Design for Living  ,   जिससे  earned her the London Critics Circle Award for the most promising newcomer .
Weisz 's performances also include the  1999  Donmar Warehouse production of  टेनेसी  Williams ' Suddenly  ,  Last Summer , and their 2009 revival of A Streetcar Named Desire .
उसके   portrayal   of   blanche  DuBois in the latter play earned her the Critics '  वृत्त   थिएटर  Award  लिये  Best Actress .
She has recently played Evanora in Oz the Great and Powerful .
The American  सिविल  War  (  ACW )  ,  also  ज्ञात  as the War  between  the States or simply the Civil War (  देखिए   नामकरण  )  ,   थी  a civil war fought  इससे  1861  to  1865 between  the   संयुक्त  States  (   the  `` Union  ''  or the  ``   उत्तर   ''   )  and several Southern  स्लेव  states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or  the  `` South '' ) .
the  war had its  उत्पत्ति  in the issue of slavery , especially the extension of slavery  into  the western  territories  .
Foreign powers did not intervene .
After four years of bloody combat  कि  left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much  of   the  South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed  ,  slavery was abolished , and  the  difficult  पुनर्निर्माण  process of restoring national unity  और  guaranteeing rights to  the  freed slaves began  .
In the 1860  अध्यक्षीय  election ,  republicans  , led by  अब्राहम  Lincoln ,  opposed  expanding slavery into  संयुक्त  States  '  territories  .
Lincoln won , but before  उसके  inauguration on  कूच  4 ,  1861  , seven cotton-based  स्लेव  states  formed  the  confederacy  .
Outgoing Democratic  अध्यक्ष   जेम्स  Buchanan and the incoming  republicans  rejected secession as illegal .
lincoln  's  inaugural  address declared his administration would not initiate civil war  .
आठ  remaining slave states continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate  शक्तियां  seized numerous federal  दुर्गों  within territory  claimed  by the  confederacy  .
A Peace  सम्मेलन  failed to  ढूँढें  a compromise , and both sides  prepared  for war .
The Confederates  assumed  that European countries  यहूद  so dependent on  ``  King Cotton `` that  वे   होता  intervene ; none  किया   और  none recognized the  नई   confederate  States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861  ,  when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops  in  South  कैरोलिना  .
Lincoln  पुकारा  for each state to provide  सैनिकों  to retake the fort ; consequently , four more slave states joined the  confederacy   ,  bringing their total to eleven  .
The Union soon controlled the  किनारा  states and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in  1861–62  .
The autumn 1862  confederate  campaign into Maryland  (  a Union  राज्य   )   ended  with  confederate  retreat  at  the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British  हस्तक्षेप  .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation , which made  समाप्ति  slavery  a  war goal .
To the west  ,  by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the  confederate  river  नेवी   ,   तब  much  of  their western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split  the  Confederacy in two at the  मिसिसिपी  River  .
In 1863 , Robert  E.  Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses  S.  Grant command of all Union armies in 1864  .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove  ईस्ट   to  capture  अटलांटा  and marched to the sea  ,   destroying  Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the  संसाधन   और   जनशक्ति  to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford  to  fight battles  of  attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant  at  Appomattox  अदालत  House  on  April 9 , 1865  .
The American Civil War was one  of  the earliest true industrial  युद्धों  .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships , and mass-produced  हथियार  were employed extensively .
The mobilization of  civilian   कारखानों  , mines , shipyards ,  बैंको  , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World  युद्ध   i  .
It remains the deadliest war in  अमरीकी  history ,  resulting  in the deaths  of  an estimated 750,000 soldiers  और  an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John  huddleston   estimates  the  मौत  toll at ten percent  of  all Northern males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent  of  all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Potato bread is a form of bread in which  आलू  replaces  a  portion of the  नियमित  wheat flour .
It is cooked in a variety  of  methods , including by baking it  on  a  hot  griddle or pan  ,  or in an oven .
It  may  be leavened or  unleavened  , and may  have  a variety of other ingredients baked into it .
The ratio of potato to  गेहूं  flour varies significantly from recipe  to  recipe , with some recipes having a majority of potato , and  अन्य  having a  बहुमत  of  गेहूं  flour .
Some recipes call for mashed potatoes , with  अन्य  calling for  निर्जलित  potato flakes .
It is available as a commercial product in many countries , with similar  विसंगतियाँ  in ingredients  ,   कुकिंग  method ,  और   अन्य  variables .
The Pacific Time Zone observes standard time by  subtracting  eight hours from Coordinated  सार्वभौमिक  Time (  )  .
The clock time in  इस  zone is based on the mean solar time  of   the  120th  मध्याह्न  west of  the  Greenwich Observatory .
During daylight saving  समय  , its time offset is .
In  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  and  कनाडा  ,  इस  time  मण्डल   is  generically called  प्रशांत  Time ( PT  )   .
specifically   ,  it  is  Pacific Standard  समय  (  pst  ) when observing standard time  (  winter ) , and Pacific Daylight Time  (  PDT ) when observing daylight saving time ( summer ) .
Most of Canada uses daylight saving time  .
In Mexico  the  UTC−8 time  मण्डल  is known as the Northwest Zone , which is synchronized with the U.S. PDT daylight saving schedule .
The largest city in the Pacific Time Zone is  लॉस  Angeles in California from  यूएसए   ;  the city 's metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  is the largest in the zone .
the  zone  is   एक  hour ahead of the Alaska Time Zone , one hour behind the Mountain Time Zone and three  घंटों  behind the Eastern Time  मण्डल  .
Stereo 8  ,  commonly known  as  the eight-track cartridge ,  eight-track  tape , or simply eight-track , is a magnetic tape sound recording technology .
It  थी  popular in  the  United States from the mid-1960s through to the  जल्दी  1980s  ,  but was relatively unknown in many European countries .
It  थी  , however  ,  very popular in the United Kingdom during  इस  period .
स्टीरियो  8 was created  in  1964 by  a  consortium led by Bill Lear of  lear  Jet Corporation , along with Ampex , Ford Motor Company , General  मोटर्स  , Motorola ,  और  RCA Victor Records ( RCA ) .
it  was  a  further development  of  the  समान  Stereo-Pak four-track cartridge created  by   अर्ल  `` Madman '' Muntz .
a  later quadraphonic version of the format was announced by RCA in April 1970 and first known  as  Quad-8  ,  then later  बदला  to just Q8  .
रामेसेस  II ( 1303 BC – July or August 1213 BC ; Egyptian : ,  alternatively   transcribed   as  Rameses and Ramses or ) , referred to as Ramesses the  ग्रेट  , was the third Egyptian pharaoh  (  reigned 1279 BC  –   1213  BC  )  of the Nineteenth dynasty .
he  is often regarded as the greatest  ,  most celebrated , and most powerful pharaoh of  the  Egyptian Empire .
His successors and later  उन्होंने  called him the `` Great Ancestor .  ''
Ramesses II led several military expeditions into the Levant ,  re-asserting  Egyptian  कंट्रोल   over  Canaan .
He also led expeditions to the  दक्षिण  , into Nubia , commemorated in  inscriptions  at Beit el-Wali  और  Gerf  hussein  .
At  आयु  fourteen  ,  Ramesses was appointed Prince Regent  by  his father Seti I .
he  is believed to have taken the throne in his late teens  और   is  known to have  शासित  Egypt from 1279 BC  to  1213  bc  for 66 years and  2  months , according  to  both Manetho and  मिश्र   's  contemporary historical records .
he  was  एकबार   कहा  to have lived to be 99 years old ,  लकिन  it is more likely that  he  died in his  90th  or 91st year  .
If he became  pharaoh  in  1279  BC as most Egyptologists  आज  believe , he would have  assumed   the  throne on May 31 ,  1279  BC , based on his known accession date of III Shemu day 27  .
Ramesses II celebrated an  unprecedented  14 sed festivals ( the first held  बाद  thirty years of a pharaoh 's reign , and  तब  every three years ) during  उसके  reign—more  than   कोई  other pharaoh .
On  उसके   मौत  , he was buried in a tomb in the Valley of the Kings  ;  his body was later moved to a royal cache  जहाँ  it  थी  discovered in 1881 , and is now  on  display in the Cairo Museum .
The early part of  उसके  reign was focused on building cities , temples and monuments .
He  स्थापित  the city of Pi-Ramesses in the Nile Delta as his new capital and main base for his campaigns in Syria .
This city was built on the remains of the city of Avaris , the capital of  the   हिक्सोस  when they took over  ,  and was the location of the  प्रमुख  Temple  of  Set  .
He is also  ज्ञात   as  Ozymandias in the Greek sources , from a  लिप्यन्तरण  into Greek  of   a  part of  रामेसेस  's throne name  ,  , `` Ra 's mighty truth ,  चुनी  of Ra '' .
the  Texas Rangers are  a   पेशेवर  baseball team  स्तिथ  in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex , based in Arlington , Texas .
The Rangers  मताधिकार  is currently a member of the Western  प्रभाग  of Major League Baseball  's  American League .
Since , the Rangers have played in Rangers Ballpark  in   आर्लिंगटन  in Arlington , Texas  .
The team 's name is borrowed  इससे  the  प्रसिद्ध  law enforcement agency  of  the  वही  name .
The franchise  थी  established  in  1961 by the name of the Washington  सीनेटरों  , an expansion team awarded to Washington , D.C. , after the city 's  पहला  ballclub , the  असली  Washington  सीनेटरों   ,  moved to Minnesota and became  the  Twins .
बाद   the   ऋतु  , the  नई  Senators moved to Arlington  ,  Texas , and debuted as the Rangers  the   following  spring .
the  Texas  रेंजरों  Baseball Club has made six appearances in the  एमएलबी  postseason , all following division championships ,  in  1996  ,  1998  ,  1999 , 2010  ,  2011  और  2012 .
In 2010  ,  the Rangers advanced past the Division  श्रेणी  for the first time , defeating the Tampa Bay  किरणें  .
टेक्सास  then  brought   घर   उनके  first American  लीग  Pennant after beating the New York  यांकीज़  in six games .
In the 2010 World Series  ,  the franchise 's first , the Rangers fell to  the  San  फ्रांसिस्को  Giants in five games .
Their lone victory made them the first Texas team to  जीत  a World Series game , the Houston Astros having been swept in their  2005  World Series appearance .
They repeated as  अमरीकी  League  champions  the following year ,  तब  lost the  2011  World Series  to   the   st.  Louis Cardinals in seven  खेल  .
Gaius Julius Caesar ( , July 100 BC – 15 March 44 BC ) was  a  Roman general , statesman ,  कौंसुल  and notable author of Latin  गद्य  .
He played a critical role in the events that led to  the  demise of the Roman  गणतंत्र  and the rise of the Roman Empire .
In 60 BC , Caesar , Crassus and Pompey formed a political alliance that  थी  to dominate Roman  राजनीती   लिये  several years .
Their attempts  to  amass power through populist  tactics  were opposed by the conservative elite within  the  Roman Senate ,  among  them  केटो  the Younger with the frequent support of Cicero .
Caesar 's conquest of Gaul  ,  completed by 51 BC , extended Rome 's  territory   to   the  English  चैनल  and the Rhine .
सीज़र  became the first Roman general to cross  दोनो  when he built a bridge across the  राइन  and  conducted  the first invasion of Britain .
These achievements granted him  बेमेल  military power and threatened to eclipse the standing of Pompey , who had  realigned   खुद  with the  सीनेट   बाद  the death of Crassus  in  53 BC  .
With  the  Gallic Wars concluded , the Senate  ordered  Caesar to lay down  उसके   सैन्य  command and return to  रोम  .
Caesar  refused  , and marked his  defiance  in 49 BC by crossing  the  Rubicon with  a  legion , leaving his province and  illegally  entering Roman territory  अंतर्गत  arms  .
Civil war  resulted   ,   इससे  which he emerged  as  the  unrivaled  leader of Rome  .
After assuming control of government  ,   सीज़र   began  a program  of  social  और  governmental reforms , including the  सृष्टि  of the Julian  पंचांग  .
he  centralised the bureaucracy of the Republic and was eventually proclaimed `` dictator in perpetuity '' .
But  the  underlying  राजनैतिक  conflicts  था  not been resolved ,  और  on the Ides of March (  15  March ) 44 BC , Caesar was assassinated by  a   समूह  of senators led by Marcus Junius Brutus .
A new  श्रेणी  of civil wars  broke   आउट  , and the constitutional government of the Republic was never restored .
सीज़र  's  अपनाया  heir Octavian  ,  later  ज्ञात  as Augustus  ,   रोज़  to sole power , and the  era  of the Roman Empire began .
Much of Caesar 's life is known  इससे  his own accounts of his  सैन्य  campaigns , and  इससे   अन्य   समकालीन  sources , mainly the letters  और  speeches of  सिसरो  and the historical writings of Sallust .
The later biographies of Caesar by Suetonius and Plutarch are also  प्रमुख   स्त्रोत  .
सीज़र  is deemed to be one of  the  greatest military commanders  of  history  .
भाषाई   मैप   of  Nigeria  ,   कैमरून  , and Benin .
Sign in English  ,  outside the University of Lagos
There are hundreds of languages  बोला  in Nigeria  .
The major  भाषाएं  are Yoruba , Hausa , Igbo , Edo , Fulfulde , Kanuri , and  ibb   .
The official language of Nigeria ,  अंग्रेज़ी  , the former colonial language ,  थी  chosen to facilitate the cultural and linguistic unity of  the  country .
English , however  ,  remains an exclusive preserve  of  the  देश   's  urban  elite  , and is  नहीं   widely  spoken in rural  क्षेत्रों  ,  जिससे   comprise  three quarters of the  देशों  population .
Nigeria  's   भाषाई  diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a whole , encompassing three major African  भाषाएं  families  :   afroasiatic  , Nilo-Saharan  ,  and  niger–congo   .
सीरियल  also has several as-yet unclassified languages , such as Cen  tuum  ,  जिससे  may represent a relic of an even  वृहद   विविधता  prior to the  स्प्रेड  of  the  current language families  .
Daucus carota ( common names  शामिल  wild carrot ,  (  UK ) bird 's nest , bishop 's  फीता  ,  और  Queen Anne 's  फीता  ( North America ) ) is a  flowering   संयंत्र  in the family Apiaceae ,  देशी  to temperate  regions  of Europe ,  दक्षिणपश्चिम  Asia and naturalised to North America and Australia .
Domesticated  गाजर  are cultivars of  a  subspecies , Daucus carota  subsp  . sativus .
In the United States  ,  the title of  संघीय  judge usually  अर्थात्  a judge appointed by the President of the  संयुक्त   राज्य   और  confirmed by the  संयुक्त  States  सीनेट  pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  Constitution .
In addition to  the  Supreme Court  of  the United States  ,   जिनकी   अस्तित्व  and some aspects of whose jurisdiction  हैं  beyond  the  constitutional power of  कॉंग्रेस  to alter  ,   अधिनियमों  of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also  पुकारा  `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate  क्षेत्राधिकार   over  different regions  of  the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a  अदालत  may be categorized as a federal judge ; such  स्थितियाँ   शामिल   the  Chief Justice and  संबद्ध  Justices of the  परम्  Court , Circuit Judges  of  the courts of appeals , and district judges  of  the United States district courts .
All of these judges described thus  दूर   हैं  referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' because they exercise the judicial  शक्ति  vested in  the  judicial branch of the federal government by Article  iii  of the U.S. Constitution .
in  addition , judges of the  अदालत  of International Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article  iii  .
Other judges serving in the federal courts  ,  including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges , are also sometimes  referred   to  as `` federal  न्यायाधीशों  '' ; however  ,   वे   हैं   neither   नियुक्त  by  the  President nor  पुष्टि  by the Senate , and  उनके  power derives from Article I instead .
देखिए   आलेख  I and  आलेख   iii  tribunals .
Nelly Kim Furtado ( born December 2 , 1978 ) is a Canadian singer , songwriter and actress  .
वो  has sold 20  लाख   एल्बम  worldwide and more 20 million singles , bringing her total sales to over 40 million records around the world .
Furtado first gained fame with  उसके  debut album , Whoa , Nelly !
, which spawned two successful singles , `` I  'm  Like a Bird `` and ``  फेरे   बंद   the  Light ``  .  ``
I 'm  जैसे  A Bird '' won a 2001  juno  Award for Single of the Year  और  a 2002  ग्रैमी  Award  लिये  Best Female Pop Vocal Performance .
in  2003 , Furtado released Folklore , which produced three international singles— ``  powerless   (  Say What You Want ) `` , `` Try `` and ``  força  ``  .
Three years  बाद  she released Loose , a worldwide  वाणिज्यिक  success .
The album spawned four number-one hits : `` Promiscuous  ``  , `` Maneater `` , `` Say It Right  ``  and  ``  All  शुभ  Things ( Come to an End  )  `` .
After a three-year break  ,  she released her first full-length Spanish album , Mi  योजना  , and  फ़र्टाडो  received a Latin Grammy for Best Female Pop Vocal Album  .
In 2012 , Furtado 's fourth English-language studio  एल्बम   ,  The  स्पिरिट  Indestructible was released .
Furtado  's  work has  अर्जित  her numerous awards and accolades , including 2  ग्रैमी  Awards , 10 Juno  पुरस्कार   ,  3 MuchMusic Video  पुरस्कार  and a  स्टार  on Canada 's Walk of Fame .
जीव   of  the Night  is  the tenth studio album by Kiss .
It is the band 's last album for Casablanca Records ,  the  only label  the  group had  कभी  recorded for at that point .
The  एल्बम  was dedicated to the memory of Casablanca  संस्थापक  and  जल्दी  Kiss supporter Neil Bogart  ,  who had died of cancer  दौरान   the  recording sessions .
It is also the band 's last  एल्बम  recorded  साथ  Ace Frehley  credited   as  an official  सदस्य  ( until 1998 's Psycho Circus ) , and its first album  साथ  Vinnie Vincent as the initially  uncredited  lead guitarist  (  Vincent would later  be  credited , but  नहीं  featured pictorially  on  the cover ,  of  1985 's  reissue  of the album )  .
Touch is  a  crucial means of  receiving  information  .
This photo  shows   tactile  markings identifying stairs  लिये  visually  impaired  people .
The somatosensory system is a  विविध  sensory  प्रणाली  comprising the receptors  और  processing centres to produce the sensory modalities such as touch ,  तापमान  , proprioception (  देह  position ) , and nociception ( pain )  .
the   संवेदी  receptors cover  the   स्किन  and epithelia , skeletal muscles , bones and  joints  , internal organs  ,  and the cardiovascular system .
While touch is considered one of the five traditional senses ,  the  impression of touch  is  formed from several modalities .
In medicine  ,  the colloquial term `` touch  ''  is usually replaced  साथ  `` somatic senses ''  to  better  प्रतिबिंबित  the variety  of  mechanisms involved .
Somatic senses are sometimes referred to as  somesthetic  senses , with the  समझना  that somesthesis includes touch , proprioception and ( depending on  उपयोग  ) also haptic  बोध  .
The  प्रणाली  reacts to diverse stimuli using different  receptors  :  thermoreceptors  ,  nociceptors   ,  mechanoreceptors and  chemoreceptors  .
हस्तांतरण  of information from the receptors passes via sensory  nerves  through tracts in  the  spinal cord and into the brain .
Processing primarily occurs in the primary  somatosensory  area  in  the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex  .
the  cortical homunculus was devised by Wilder Penfield .
At  इसके  simplest , the system works when activity in a sensory neuron  is  triggered  by  a  विशिष्ट   stimulus  such as heat  ;  this signal  आखिरकार  passes to an area in the brain  uniquely  attributed to that area on the body—this allows the processed  stimulus  to be felt at the correct location .
The point-to-point mapping  of  the body surfaces in  the  brain is called a homunculus and is essential  in   the  creation of a body image .
This  brain-surface   (  `` cortical ''  )   मैप   is  not  अपरिवर्तनीय  , however .
Dramatic shifts can occur  in  response to stroke or  चोट  .
Magnolia is  a  large genus of about 210 flowering plant species in  the  subfamily Magnolioideae of  the  family Magnoliaceae .
It is named after French  वनस्पतिशास्त्री  Pierre Magnol .
Magnolia is an ancient genus .
Appearing before bees did , the flowers evolved to encourage  परागण  by  भृंग  .
To avoid damage from pollinating beetles  ,  the carpels of  magnolia  flowers are extremely tough .
Fossilised specimens of  magnolia  acuminata  have   महरूम  found  डेटिंग  to 20 million years  पहले  , and of plants  identifiably  belonging to the  magnoliaceae   डेटिंग  to 95 million years ago .
Another aspect of Magnolias that  is  considered  to  represent an ancestral state is that the flower  कली   is  enclosed in a bract rather than in sepals ; the perianth parts are  undifferentiated  and called tepals rather than  पृथक  sepals  और  petals  .
Magnolia shares the  tepal  characteristic with several  अन्य   flowering  plants near the  आधार   of  the flowering  संयंत्र  lineage such as Amborella and Nymphaea ( as  खूब  as with many more recently derived plants  ऐसे  as  लिलि   )   .
the  natural range  of  Magnolia  प्रजाति   is  a disjunct distribution , with a main centre in east and southeast Asia and a secondary centre in eastern North America , Central America ,  the  West Indies , and some species in South America  .
thumb
``  श्वेत  Christmas '' is  an  Irving Berlin  सोंग  reminiscing about an old-fashioned Christmas setting .
According to  the  Guinness Book of  संसार  Records , the version sung by  bing  Crosby is  the  best-selling single of all time , with estimated sales in  excess  of 50 million  नक़ल  worldwide .
Accounts vary as  to  when and  जहाँ   बर्लिन  wrote the song .
One story is that he wrote  it  in 1940 , in warm La Quinta ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ,  जबकि  staying  at  the La  quinta   होटल  , a frequent  हॉलीवुड   रिट्रीट  also favored by writer-producer  फ़्रैंक  Capra , although  the   एरिज़ोना  Biltmore  भी  claims the song was written  वहीँ   .
he  often  ठहरे  up  सब  night writing — he  बताई   उसके  secretary  ,  `` Grab your pen  और  take down this song .
i  just wrote  the  best song  i  've ever written  —   हेक   ,  I just  लिखा   the  best  सोंग  that anybody  's  ever written !  ''
cross-country  skiing (  or  XC skiing  )  is  a  form  of  ski touring in which participants propel themselves  आरपार  snow-covered terrain using  skis  and poles .
The activity is popular in many places with large snowfields , primarily Northern Europe , Canada , and Alaska .
cross-country  skiing  is  part of  the  Nordic  स्कीइंग  sport family , which includes  स्की  jumping , Nordic combined ( cross-country skiing and ski jumping ) , Biathlon (  स्कीइंग  and rifle  marksmanship  ) and ski-orienteering (  जिससे  includes  मैप  navigation along snow trails  और  tracks ) .
Cross-country skiing is the modern style of  स्कीइंग   कि   सबसे  resembles prehistoric skiing , particularly when  किया  in  the  backcountry .
It is also related to Telemark skiing .
A  उपयोग  tax  in  United  राज्य  is complementary to sales tax which  अर्थात्  , if you buy a  taxable  product/services without paying any Sales  कर  to vendor  ,  you owe use tax  .
You must self assess use  कर  and pay it directly  to  the state where the products were consumed or services  यहूद   rendered  .
Use  कर  typically is a  कर  on consumption but if you buy an item  (  without paying sales tax  )  and store  it   in  your warehouse  initially  , use tax  applies  to that location where goods were  भंडारित  .
Later  on  when the final consumption takes place at some other location , you are required to pay the differential  of  tax  रेट  to the jurisdiction  of  ultimate place of  खपत  .
This really means that you do n't have to pay  दोनो  Sales Tax as well as Use Tax on one transaction .
It is only  एक  or the  अन्य  that you  हैं  required to pay on purchase of  taxable  products/services  .
If  विक्रेता  does n't charge  कोई  Sales tax  on  its invoice then it is the  दायित्व  of the  खरीदार  to self assess  उपयोग   कर  and pay  it  to the appropriate  jurisdication   .
Use Tax is generally charged at  the  same  कर  rate of Sales Tax but in  कुछ  states the tax rate  is  different .
Use tax is also termed  as  `` Consumption Tax '' or  ``  Consumer Use  कर  '' .
A use tax is a type of excise tax  levied  in the United  राज्य  by numerous state governments .
It is  assessed  upon tangible personal property purchased  by  a resident of  the   assessing  state for use , storage , or consumption in  कि   राज्य  ( not for resale  )  , regardless of where the purchase took place .
if  a  निवासी   of  a state makes a  खरीदें  within his home state , full  बिक्री  tax is paid at the time of  the  transaction .
The  उपयोग  tax applies when a resident of the assessing state purchases  an  item that is  नहीं  subject to his home state  's  sales tax .
Usually , this is  due  to out-of-state purchases  ,  as well as ordering items through the mail , by  फोन  , or over the Internet from  अन्य  states  .
The use tax  is  typically assessed at the same rate as the sales tax that would have  महरूम   owed  ( if any )  था  the same  goods   महरूम  purchased in  the  state  of  residence .
For example , a resident of Massachusetts  ,  with a 6.25  %  ``  बिक्री   और  use tax '' on certain goods and services ,  purchases   non-exempt   goods  or services in New Hampshire for use , storage or  अन्य  consumption in Massachusetts .
अंतर्गत  New Hampshire  विधि   ,   the  New Hampshire vendor collects no  बिक्री  taxes on the goods , but  the  Massachusetts purchaser/user must still pay 6.25  %  of  the  sales price directly to the Department of Revenue  in  Massachusetts as  a  use tax .
If the same goods  हैं  purchased  in   a  US state  कि  does collect sales tax for such goods at time  of  purchase , whatever taxes were  सशुल्क  by the purchaser  to  that  राज्य  can be  deducted   (   as  a tax  क्रेडिट  ) from the 6.25 % owed for  subsequent  use  ,   भंडार  or consumption in Massachusetts .
With  few  exceptions , no state 's  विक्रेता   होगा  charge  the   देशी  state 's sales  कर  on goods shipped out of state  ,  meaning  सब  goods ordered from out-of-state are essentially  फ़्री  of sales  कर  .
The purchaser  is   इसलिए  required  to   घोषित  and pay the use tax to his home state  on  these  ordered  goods .
the  assessing jurisdiction may make the use tax payable  annually  , but some states require  a  monthly payment  .
For example , where a Vermont  निवासी  has  नहीं  paid at  तनिक  6 % sales  कर   on  property brought in for use  in  the  राज्य  , Vermont law  requires  filing a  कर   वापसी   (  Form SU-452 and payment ) by the 20th day  of  the month following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 late  शुल्क  ,  a  5 % penalty per month , to  a  maximum  of  25 % ,  प्लस   statutory  interest on the unpaid tax and penalties .
ठेठ  exemptions include purchases by charitable non-profit organizations or  सरकारी  agencies , purchases  लिये  resale in  कॉमर्स   ,  and purchases via `` casual sales  ''  by individuals not in the ordinary course  of  business .
Also note that there are thousands  of  tax jurisdictions in the U.S. and many have ever-changing lists  of  specific types  of  goods and services  कि  are not taxable .
as   an  illustration of the  complexities  :  a  2006 Massachusetts law requires payment  of  tax  on  `` pre-written '' ( not custom ) software purchased and downloaded over the  अंतरजाल  for installation and use  in  Massachusetts ,  regardless  of where it originates .
However , the  वास्तविक  use of the  वही  software  डाउनलोड   by  a Massachusetts resident to a server in another  राज्य  remains a non-taxed `` service '' .
in  contrast , Arkansas generally does not tax anything delivered over  the  Internet ( such  as  downloaded software or music ) , except VoIP which is specifically defined as taxable `` telecommunications services ''  .
Software (  pre-written  or custom )  ``  delivered thru a  ठोस   मीडियम  '' ( i.e. , on disk ) in Arkansas is taxable even if ordered online ,  मगर  `` custom  तन्त्र   लिये  a particular customer  ''  which is non-taxable `` programming services '' even if delivered on  a  disk .
In most  मामले  , this complexity  is  part  of  the  underlying  sales tax  कानून  ;  लकिन  while a brick-and-mortar store has to deal with only  the  sales  कर   कानून  of  इसके  own location ,  रिमोट  sellers have  to  deal with the use tax laws  of  many jurisdictions—up to every US state and  मोहल्ले  that assesses them , if the company has  a  presence  or  `` nexus ''  in  every state  (  as  विशाल  `` brick-and-mortar  ''  sellers like  wal-mart  and Best Buy  do  ) .
In medicine  ,  pulmonary hypertension  (  PH ) is an increase of blood pressure in the pulmonary artery , pulmonary vein  ,  or pulmonary capillaries , together known as the  फेफड़ों  vasculature , leading to shortness  of  breath , dizziness , fainting ,  और  other symptoms , all of which are exacerbated  by  exertion .
pulmonary  hypertension can be a severe disease  साथ  a markedly decreased exercise tolerance and  दिल  failure .
It was first identified by  dr.   अर्नस्ट   वोन  Romberg  in   1891  .
According to the most recent classification , it can be one  of  five different types : arterial , venous , hypoxic , thromboembolic or miscellaneous .
right
right
Sanuk , a division of Deckers Outdoor Corporation , is  a  footwear brand  आधारित   in   दक्षिणी   कैलिफ़ोर्निया   .
Sanuk , the  थाई  word for fun , was founded by Southern California native  जेफ़  Kelley when he started  बनाना  sandals out of indoor-outdoor carpet .
The first product created  थी  green  carpeted  and entitled the ``  फर   रियल   ''  after one  दूकान  owner asked  if   the  novelty sandal was `` For Real . ''
The Fur Real first  became  a  runaway  hit through boutique stores and not the  intended  surf shops .
The novelty act was followed up  by  a sandal wrapped  in  wire mesh , a leopard print version  ,  and styles made out of a poncho material in a variety of  रंगों  .
sanuk  has  grown  to include  स्टाइल  options for men  ,  women and youth  और  is distributed across the United States and in over 50  देशों  throughout Europe , Asia ,  दक्षिण  America and  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
Sanuk  centers  itself around a positive lifestyle  वकालत   the  slogan  ,  ``  मुस्कान  , Pass it  on  ! `` .
In  कंप्यूटर  science ,  सरणी  programming languages ( also known  as  vector or multidimensional  भाषाएं  ) generalize operations  on   scalars   to   लागू   transparently  to vectors , matrices , and  उच्चतर  dimensional arrays .
सरणी  programming primitives concisely express  व्यापक  ideas about data manipulation .
The  स्तर  of conciseness  can  be  नाटकीय  in certain cases  :  it is  नहीं   uncommon  to  ढूँढें  array programming language one-liners that  आवश्यकता  more than  a  couple of  पृष्ठों  of Java code .
APL , designed by Ken Iverson  ,  was the first  प्रोग्रामिंग  language to  provide  array programming capabilities  .
The mnemonic APL refers to the title  of  his seminal book  ``   a  Programming Language  ''  and not to arrays per  se  . Iverson 's contribution to rigor and  स्पष्टता  was probably more  महत्वपूर्ण  than the  सरल  extension of dimensions to functions  .
In  the  United States  an  annuity contract is created when an  insured  party , usually an individual , pays a life insurance company a single premium that  होगा  later  be  distributed back to the insured party  over  time .
Annuity contracts traditionally provide  a  guaranteed  वितरण  of income over time  ,  such  as  via  फिक्स्ड  payments , until the  मौत  of the  व्यक्ति  or persons named in the contract or until a final date  ,   whichever   आता  first  .
However , the majority of modern annuity customers use  annuities  only to accumulate funds free of income and capital gains taxes and  to  later take lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature .
President Barack Obama .
Barack  ओबामा  with his first Supreme Court  nominee  , Sonia Sotomayor .
following  is a  सूची  of all United  राज्य  federal judges appointed by President Barack  ओबामा  during his presidency .
As of April 30 , 2013 , 187 Obama nominees  to   आलेख  III  judgeships  have  महरूम   पुष्टि   by  the United  राज्य  Senate ,  namely   दो   justices  to the Supreme Court of the United States , 35 judges to the United States courts of  appeals   और  150 judges to the United States district  न्यायालयों  .
25 further  nominations  are currently awaiting Senate action .
There are currently  16  vacancies  on   the  United  राज्य  Courts  of  Appeals , 67 vacancies on the United States district courts and  22   अतिरिक्त  federal  न्यायपालिका  vacancies that are anticipated to occur  पहले  the  समाप्त  of  ओबामा  's second  पद  .
Obama  रै  not  बना   कोई   recess  appointments to the federal courts .
Obama has made two nominations to the United  राज्य  Court of International Trade  ,  an  आलेख  III tribunal .
Obama also designated sitting  न्यायधीश   एमिली  C. Hewitt of the United States Court of Federal Claims , an Article I court ,  to  be  मुख्य   न्यायधीश   of  that  अदालत  .
इस  is a list of airports in Mexico , sorted by  स्थान   .
मैक्सिको   रै  about 1,834 airports , ranking  2nd  in number of airports  in  North  अमेरिका  , and 3rd in the world  .
Only major  नेशनल   और  International Airports  हैं  shown .
Agency  कर्ज़  also  ज्ञात  as an Agency bond is  a   सुरक्षा  , usually a bond  ,  issued by a U.S. government-sponsored agency  .
The  offerings   of  these agencies are backed but  नहीं   गारंटी  by  the   us  government since the  एजेंसियों  are private entities .
Some prominent  issuers   of  these securities are Student  ऋण  Marketing Association ( Sallie Mae ) , Federal National Mortgage Association  (  Fannie Mae ) and  संघीय  Home Loan Mortgage Corporation  (   फ्रेडी  Mac  )  .
Agency securities are usually exempt from state  और  local taxes ,  लकिन  not federal  कर  .
Agency  कर्ज़   is  also called  an   एजेंसी  security .
The Susquehanna Steam Electric Station , a boiling  जल  reactor .
the  reactors are  स्तिथ  inside the rectangular containment buildings towards the front of  the  cooling towers .
Three nuclear-powered American warships , (  शीर्ष  to bottom  )  nuclear  cruisers   uss  Bainbridge and USS Long Beach with USS Enterprise the  पहला  nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in 1964 .
Crew  सदस्यों   हैं   स्पेलिंग   आउट  Einstein  's  mass-energy  equivalence  formula E  =   mc2  on  the   उड़ान  deck .
The  रूसी   nuclear-powered  icebreaker NS Yamal  on  a  1994  joint expedition with the NSF  .
Nuclear power  is  the use of sustained nuclear fission to  generate  heat and electricity .
नाभिकीय  power plants provided about  5.7   %  of the world 's  उर्जा  and 13  %  of the  संसार  's electricity , in 2012  .
In 2013 ,  the   iaea  report  कि  there are 437 operational nuclear power reactors ( although not  सब  are producing  विद्युत   )  , in 31 countries .
in  addition  ,  there are approximately 140 naval vessels using  नाभिकीय  propulsion in operation , powered by some 180  रिएक्टरों  .
There is an ongoing debate  परिचय  the use of nuclear energy .
Proponents , such as  the  World Nuclear Association , the  iaea  and Environmentalists for Nuclear  उर्जा  contend that  नाभिकीय  power is a sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions .
Opponents  ,   ऐसे  as  ग्रीनपीस  International and  nirs  , believe that nuclear power poses many threats to people  और  the environment .
Nuclear  शक्ति  plant  दुर्घटनाओं   शामिल  the  chernobyl  disaster ( 1986  )  , Fukushima  daiichi  nuclear disaster ( 2011 ) ,  और  the  तीन  Mile Island accident ( 1979 ) .
There have also been  कुछ  nuclear-powered submarine mishaps .
Research into safety improvements is continuing and nuclear fusion , believed  to  be safer , may be used in the future .
As of 2012 , according  to  the  iaea  ,  विश्वव्यापी  there were 68  सिविल  nuclear power reactors under  निर्माण  in 15 countries .
in  the US the licenses of almost half its reactors have been extended  to  60 years , and plans to build another dozen are under  गंभीर   विचार  .
However , Japan 's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster prompted a  पुनर्विचार  of  नाभिकीय  energy  नीति  in many countries .
Germany decided to close all its  रिएक्टरों   by  2022 , and Italy has banned nuclear power .
Following Fukushima  ,  the International Energy Agency halved its estimate of additional  नाभिकीय  generating capacity  to  be built  by  2035  .
Photograph of  the  Berlin Wall taken  इससे  the West side .
The  वॉल  was built in  1961  to prevent  ईस्ट   germans  from fleeing from Communism .
It was  an  iconic  प्रतीक   of  the Cold War and  इसके  fall  in  1989 marked the end of the War .
The Cold War , often  दिनाँक  from 1947 to 1991 , was a  sustained  state of  राजनैतिक  and military tension  between   शक्तियां  in  the  Western Bloc ,  वर्चस्व  by the United States with NATO among its allies ,  और  powers  in  the Eastern Bloc  ,  dominated by the Soviet Union along with  the   वॉरसॉ  Pact .
This began  बाद  the success of  उनके  temporary wartime alliance against Nazi Germany ,  leaving  the USSR  और  the US as  दो  superpowers with profound economic and political differences  .
A  न्यूट्रल  faction  arose  with the Non-Aligned Movement founded  by   मिश्र  , India  ,  and Yugoslavia ;  इस  faction rejected association with either the US-led West or the Soviet-led  ईस्ट   .
the  Cold War was so named because the two  प्रमुख   powers—each  possessing nuclear weapons and thereby threatened  साथ  mutual  assured  destruction —never met in direct military combat .
Instead ,  in  their struggle for global  influence  they engaged in ongoing psychological warfare and in  नियमित  indirect  confrontations  through proxy wars .
Cycles of relative  शांत   होता   be  followed by  ऊँची   टेंशन  , which could  have   led  to world war .
The tensest  टाइम्स  were  दौरान  the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ) , the Korean War ( 1950–1953 ) ,  the   स्वेज  Crisis  (  1956 )  ,  the Berlin Crisis of 1961 , the Cuban missile crisis ( 1962 ) ,  the  Vietnam War ( 1959–1975  )   ,  the Yom Kippur War (  1973  ) , the  सोवियत  war in Afghanistan ( 1979–1989 )  ,  the  सोवियत  downing of Korean  एयर  Lines Flight 007 ( 1983 ) , and the `` Able Archer  ''   नाटो  military exercises (  1983  ) .
The  विरोध   थी   expressed  through military  coalitions  , strategic conventional force  deployments  , extensive  सहायता  to client states , espionage , massive propaganda campaigns , conventional and nuclear arms races  ,  appeals to neutral nations , rivalry  at  sports events ( in particular the  ओलंपिक  ) ,  और  technological competitions such as the Space  रेस  .
The US  और  USSR became involved in  राजनैतिक  and military conflicts in the Third  संसार  countries of Latin  अमेरिका  , Africa , the Middle  ईस्ट  , and Southeast Asia .
To alleviate the risk of  a  potential nuclear war , both sides sought relief of political tensions  through  détente in the  1970s   .
In the 1980s , the United  राज्य  increased diplomatic , military ,  और  economic pressures on the Soviet Union ,  at  a time when  the  communist state was already suffering from economic stagnation .
In the mid-1980s  ,  the new  सोवियत  President Mikhail Gorbachev introduced  the  liberalizing  reforms  of perestroika ( `` reorganization ''  ,  1987 ) and glasnost ( `` openness '' ,  ca  . 1985 ) .
Pressures for national independence grew stronger in Eastern Europe  ,  especially Poland  .
They reached  a  breaking point when  गोर्बाचेव  refused to use Soviet troops  to  support the faltering government of East  जर्मनी  in late 1989 .
Within weeks all the  उपग्रह  states broke  फ़्री  from Moscow in a peaceful wave of  revolutions  ( there was some violence in  रोमानिया  ) .
The  pressures  escalated inside the Soviet Union ,  जहाँ  Communism fell  और  the USSR  थी  formally dissolved in late 1991 .
The United States remained as  the   संसार  's only superpower .
The Cold War and its events  have   बाएँ  a significant legacy , and it is often  referred  to in popular culture , especially in media featuring themes of  espionage   और  the threat  of  nuclear warfare .
Pikes  शिखर  State Park  is  a state park of Iowa , USA , featuring  a  bluff overlooking  the  Upper Mississippi River opposite  the  confluence of the Wisconsin River .
the  park is operated by the Iowa Department of Natural  संसाधन   .
It is  nearly  a  हजार  acres ( 4 km2 ) in extent .
The  निकटतम  city is McGregor , Iowa .
Iowa Highway 76 approximately defines its northern  boundary  .
It gets its name from the Iowa incarnation of Pikes Peak , a particularly high point overlooking the gorge of the Upper  मिसिसिपी  , and like Pikes Peak  in  Colorado , is named for Zebulon Pike .
There  हैं  hiking trails , campgrounds and RV facilities .
Mountain bikes are  permitted   in  certain portions of  the  park .
Aside  इससे  recreational development , the land in the  पार्क  was never cleared and to a large extent remains as it was before the advent of white  उपनिवेश   .
It is part of a larger complex of parks , reserves and  refuges  which include Effigy Mounds National Monument ,  the  various components of the  पीला  River State Forest , the enormous Upper Mississippi  नदी  National Wildlife and Fish Refuge and much smaller , much less well known Driftless Area  नेशनल  Wildlife Refuge .
the  Northeast Iowa Legacy Trail System is  undergoing   विकास   ,  and will connect elements of these sites .
Zac  भूरा  Band  is   an  American country/folk band based in Atlanta , Georgia  .
the   लाइनअप   consists  of Zac Brown  (  lead vocals , guitar  )  , Jimmy  de  Martini ( fiddle  ,  vocals ) , John  driskell  Hopkins ( bass guitar  ,   vocals  ) ,  coy  Bowles ( guitar  ,  keyboards ) , Chris Fryar  (   ड्रम  )  ,  Clay Cook ( guitar ,  keyboards  , mandolin  ,  steel guitar , vocals ) , and Daniel de  लॉस  Reyes ( percussion ) .
The band  रै   toured  throughout the United States  ,  including a slot  on  the 2009 and 2010 Bonnaroo  म्यूज़िक  Festival .
वे  have also recorded five studio albums  ,  and charted nine Number One  singles  on the Billboard country  चार्ट  : ``  मुर्गा   fried  `` , `` Toes `` , `` Highway 20 Ride  ``   ,  `` Free `` , `` As She 's Walking Away ``  ,  `` Colder Weather `` , `` Knee Deep `` ,  ``  Keep Me  in   दिमाग  `` , and ``  अलविदा   in  Her Eyes `` in addition  to  the  singles  `` Whatever It Is `` and `` No  hurry  `` , which peaked at number 2 on the  वही  chart .
बात   रेडियो  is  a  radio format containing discussion about  topical  issues .
Most shows are regularly hosted by a single individual , and  प्रायः  feature interviews with a number of different  अतिथि  .
Talk radio typically includes an element of listener participation , usually by broadcasting live conversations between  the   मेजबान  and listeners who `` call in '' ( usually via telephone ) to the show .
Listener contributions are  प्रायः  screened  by  a show 's producer ( s ) in  अनुक्रम  to maximize audience interest and , in the case of commercial talk radio , attract advertisers .
generally  , the shows are organized  into   खण्ड  , each separated by a pause for advertisements  ;  however ,  in  public or non-commercial radio  ,  music is sometimes  निभाई  in  प्लेस  of  commercials  to separate the program segments .
Variations  of  talk radio include  रूढ़िवादी  talk , hot talk , liberal talk and sports talk .
While  बात  radio  रै  historically  महरूम  associated with AM/FM , starting around 2005 the technology  लिये   internet-based  talk-radio shows became cost effective in the  रूप  of podcasts .
Now ,  it  is  संभावित  for an individual to use a  किस्में  of services to host an Internet-based talk-radio  दिखाएँ  without carriage by a traditional radio station .
In addition  tv  programming from talk and  न्यूज   आउटलेट  such as BBC , CNN , Bloomberg and  फॉक्स  are now often available expanding the  संसार   of  talk radio further .
Talk radio listening is  अभी  enjoyed not only on radios  ,  but a wide variety  of   अन्य  devices and services including  pcs  using iTunes  ,  station directories such as  tunein  , show  निर्देशिका  smartphones with apps such as Stitcher .
Hippa  is  a genus  of   decapod  crustaceans in  the  family Hippidae  ,  containing the following species:
hippa  adactyla Fabricius , 1787
Hippa admirabilis ( Thallwitz  ,  1892 )
Hippa alcimede (  de  Man , 1902 )
Hippa australis Hale ,  1927
hippa  carcineutes Holthuis & Manning  ,  1970
Hippa celaeno  (  de Man  ,  1896 )
Hippa granulatus (  borradaile  , 1904 )
Hippa hirtipes  (  Dana , 1852 )
Hippa indica  haig  , Murugan & Balakrishnan  नायर  , 1986
Hippa marmorata ( Hombron & Jacquinot  ,   1846  )
Hippa  ovalis  ( A.  milne-edwards  , 1862 )
hippa  picta ( Heller  ,  1861 )
Hippa strigillata ( Stimpson  ,  1860 )
Hippa  testudinaria  ( Herbst , 1791 )
Hippa truncatifrons  (  Miers  ,  1878 )
It  is   closely  related to  the  genus  emerita   ,  and  प्रजाति   have  often been  transferred  between the two  genera  .
जकार्ता  ( )  ,  officially known  as  the Special Capital Region of  जकार्ता  ( ) , is the capital and largest city  of  Indonesia .
Located on the northwest coast of Java ,  जकार्ता  is the country  's   आर्थिक  ,  सांस्कृतिक  and  राजनैतिक  centre , and with a population of 10,187,595 as of November  2011  , it  is  the most populous city in Indonesia  और  in Southeast Asia ,  और  is the thirteenth most populated city  in  the world .
The  आधिकारिक  metropolitan area , known as Jabodetabek  (  a name formed by combining the initial syllables of Jakarta  ,   bogor  , Depok  ,  Tangerang and  bekasi  ) , is the second  largest   in   the  world , yet the metropolis 's suburbs  स्टिल  continue beyond  it   .
Jakarta is  सूचीबद्ध   as   a  global city in the  2008   वैश्वीकरण  and World Cities Study Group and Network (  gawc   )  research  .
and has an area of .
This area has population of well over 28 million  ,  making it  एक  of the  संसार  's  largest  conurbations  in  terms of number  of   निवासियों  .
in  2011 ,  जकार्ता  ranked  17th  among  the  world 's 200 largest cities ,  a  jump from its 2007 ranking of 171 .
Jakarta has  grown  more rapidly than Kuala Lumpur , Beijing and Bangkok .
Established in the fourth  सदी   ,  the city became an important trading port for  the  Kingdom  of   sunda  .
It was  the  de facto capital of the Dutch East Indies ( when it was known  as  Batavia )  और  has  जारी  as the capital of Indonesia since  the  country 's independence was declared  in  1945 .
The city is the seat  of  the  आसियान  Secretariat .
Jakarta  is  served  by  the Soekarno–Hatta International Airport  ,  Halim Perdanakusuma International Airport , and Tanjung Priok Harbour ; it is connected by several intercity and commuter railways , and served by several  बस  lines running on reserved busways  .
A typical home air conditioning  खिड़की  unit  .
एयर  conditioning is  the  process of  altering   the  properties of air  (  primarily temperature  और   आर्द्रता  ) to more favourable conditions .
More generally , air  कंडीशनिंग  can refer to any form of technological cooling , heating , ventilation , or  कीटाणुशोधन  that modifies the condition of air .
An air  कंडीशनर   (   प्रायः  referred  to   as  air  कॉन  , AC or  a/c  ,  और  not  to  be confused with the abbreviation  लिये  alternating current ) is a major or  घर  appliance , system , or  यांत्रिकी  designed  to   बदलें  the  एयर  temperature and  आर्द्रता   भीतर  an  क्षेत्रफल  ( used for cooling and sometimes  हीटिंग  depending on  the  air properties at a  दिए  time ) .
The cooling is  typically  done using a simple refrigeration cycle , but sometimes evaporation is used  ,  commonly for  सुकून  cooling  in   इमारतें  and motor  वाहनों  .
in  construction , a complete system of heating  ,   वेंटिलेशन  and air conditioning is referred to as `` HVAC `` .
`` 6 Foot 7 Foot '' ( also styled as `` 6'7 ''  )  is a  सोंग   by  American rapper  लील  Wayne featuring label mate  ,  Cory Gunz .
It is taken from his ninth studio album  ,  Tha Carter IV ( 2011 )  .
It was officially released on  itunes   on  December 16 , 2010 .
It was produced by ``  a  Milli `` producer Bangladesh .
the  song samples ``  day-o  ( The Banana  नाव  Song  )  `` by Harry Belafonte  .
dc  Talk (  styled  as  dc  Talk ) ,  is  a Grammy -winning Christian rap trio .
The group  थी  formed  in  Lynchburg , Virginia in  1987   by  Toby McKeehan , Michael  tait   ,  and  केविन  Max Smith .
They  have   released  five major studio albums  साथ  : DC Talk ( 1989 ) , Nu Thang  (   1990   )  , Free at Last  (  1992 ) ,  यीशु   freak  ( 1995 ) ,  और  Supernatural  (  1998 ) .
In 2002 , the  ज्ञानकोष  of  समकालीन  Christian Music called DC Talk `` the most popular overtly Christian act  of  all time . ''
In 2000  ,  the group released an EP  titled  Solo which  contained  two solo  गीतों  from  प्रत्येक  member  .
चूंकि  that time  ,   dc  Talk has been on an indefinite hiatus  ,   और  the three band members have each led solo careers  .
They  have  performed  और  recorded  व्यक्तिगत  songs together  अनेक  times during the  2000s  , although the group  never  officially reunited or disbanded .
The group 's musical style evolved  significantly  throughout their  करियर  .
उनके   पहला  two releases , DC Talk and Nu Thang , were of the hip hop genre .
DC Talk 's third album , Free at Last , also mainly took influence from  the   हिप  hop style ,  हालांकि  their music began taking on a  चट्टान  sound .
The trio 's last two albums , Jesus Freak and Supernatural  ,  were predominantly pop rock  .
The Bible  is  a compilation of many shorter  किताबे  written at different times and later assembled into the biblical canon .
All but the shortest of these  किताबे  have  महरूम   विभाजित  into chapters  ,  generally a page or so in length  ,  since  the  early  13th   सदी  .
Since the mid-16th century , each chapter has been  further  divided into `` verses '' of a few short lines or sentences  .
sometimes  a  वाक्य  spans more than  एक  verse , as in the case of ,  और  sometimes there is more than  एक  sentence  in  a single verse ,  as  in the case of .
As the chapter and verse divisions  यहूद  not part  of   the  original texts , they form  भाग  of the paratext of the  बाइबल   .
The Jewish divisions of the Hebrew text differ at various points from those used by Christians .
लिये  instance ,  in   यहूदी  tradition ,  the  ascriptions to many Psalms are  regarded  as independent verses , making 116 more verses , whereas  the  established Christian practice is to count and number each Psalm ascription together with the first verse  following  it .
Some chapter divisions also occur  in  different places , e.g . in Hebrew Bibles is numbered as in Christian translations  .
An  अनुक्रमणिका  ( plural : indexes ) is a list of words or phrases ( 'headings '  )   और  associated pointers ( 'locators '  )   to   जहाँ   उपयोगी  material relating to that heading can be found  in  a document .
in  a traditional back-of-the-book index the headings  होगा   शामिल  names  of  people , places and events , and concepts selected by a  व्यक्ति  as being relevant and of interest to  a  possible reader of the book .
the  pointers  हैं  typically page numbers , paragraph  संख्याएँ  or  खण्ड   संख्याएँ   .
in  a library catalog the  शब्द  are authors ,  शीर्षक  , subject  headings   ,  etc. , and the pointers are  कॉल  numbers  .
Internet  ढूंढें  engines , such as  google  , and full  टेक्स्ट  searching help provide access to information but are not as selective as an index  ,   as  they provide non-relevant links , and may miss relevant information if it is not phrased in  exactly   the  way they expect .
In  संयुक्त  States financial regulation , a suspicious activity report ( or SAR  )  is a  रपट  made by a financial institution to the Financial Crimes  प्रवर्तन  Network ( FinCEN ) , an agency  of  the United States  विभाग  of the  राजकोष  ,  regarding  suspicious or potentially suspicious activity .
Facebook on the Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is  an  online  सोशल  networking  सेवा  , whose name stems from the colloquial name  लिये  the book given  to   विद्यार्थी   at  the start of  the   अकादमिक   साल  by  कुछ   विश्वविद्यालयों   administrations  in the United  राज्य   to  help students get to  जान  each other  .
It was founded in February 2004 by  चिह्नित  Zuckerberg with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes .
The website 's membership  थी  initially limited by the founders to Harvard students  ,  but was expanded to other  कॉलेजों   in  the Boston  क्षेत्रफल  , the Ivy League  ,  and Stanford University .
It gradually added support for  विद्यार्थी  at various  अन्य  universities before  खोलने  to high  स्कूल  students , and eventually to anyone aged  13   और  over .
फेसबुक  now allows any users who declare  themselves  to be at least  13  years old to become registered  उपयोक्ता   of   the  site .
उपयोक्ता  must register before using the site , after which they may  बनाएँ  a personal profile , add other users as friends , and exchange messages , including automatic  सूचनाएं  when  वे  update  उनके  profile .
Additionally ,  उपयोक्ता   may  join  common-interest  user groups , organized by workplace , school or college ,  or   अन्य  characteristics ,  और   categorize  their  मित्रों  into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends '' .
as  of September 2012  ,  Facebook has over one  अरब  active users  .
According to a  may  2011 Consumer Reports survey , there  हैं  7.5  लाख   children  under 13 with accounts and  5  million under  10  , violating the  साईट  's terms  of  service .
In  may   2005   ,  Accel partners invested $ 12.7  लाख  in Facebook , and Jim  breyer  added $ 1  लाख   of  his own money to the pot  .
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked  फेसबुक   as  the most used social networking service by worldwide monthly active users .
Entertainment  साप्ताहिक  included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list , saying ,  ``  How on earth  किया  we stalk  हमारी   exes  , remember our co-workers  '   जन्मदिन  , bug our friends  ,   और   खेल  a rousing game of Scrabulous before  फेसबुक  ? ''
Critics , such  as  Facebook Detox  ,  state that Facebook has turned into a national obsession in the  संयुक्त  States , resulting in  विशाल  amounts of time lost and encouraging  आत्ममोह  .
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 million monthly unique U.S. visitors  in  May 2011 .
According to Social Media Today ,  in  April 2010 an  अनुमानित  41.6 %  (  129.5  लाख  ) of  the  U.S. population had a Facebook account .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's market  विकास  started  to  stall in some regions ,  साथ  the  साईट  losing 7 million active users in the United  राज्य  and Canada  in  May 2011 .
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering on  फ़रवरी  1  ,  2012 , and was headquartered in  मेनलो   पार्क  ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Facebook Inc. began selling stock  to  the  पब्लिक  and trading on the NASDAQ on May  18   ,   2012  .
Sulfonamide functional group
Hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide and a  thiazide  .
Furosemide is a sulfonamide , but not  a  thiazide .
सल्फोनेमाइड  or sulphonamide is the basis of several groups of  दवाएँ  .
The original antibacterial sulfonamides  (  sometimes called  sulfa   दवाएँ   or  sulpha drugs  )  are synthetic  रोगाणुरोधी  agents that contain the sulfonamide group .
Some  sulfonamides   हैं  also  विहीन  of antibacterial  कार्यकलाप   ,  e.g. , the anticonvulsant sultiame .
The sulfonylureas and thiazide diuretics are newer drug groups  आधारित  on the antibacterial sulfonamides  .
Sulfa  allergies  are common ,  hence  medications containing sulfonamides are  विहित  carefully .
it  is important  to   मेक   a  distinction between sulfa  दवाएँ   और   अन्य  sulfur-containing drugs and additives , such as  sulfates  and sulfites  ,  which  हैं  chemically unrelated to the sulfonamide  समूह   ,  and do not  कारण  the same hypersensitivity reactions seen in  the   sulfonamides  .
This is a list of characters from  जार्ज  Lopez .
Domestic geese ( Anser anser domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) are domesticated grey geese ( either Greylag Geese or Swan Geese  )  kept as poultry for their meat  ,   अंडे  , and  bas  feathers since  प्राचीन  times .
30 Seconds  to  Mars is an American rock band from Los Angeles , formed in 1998 .
Since 2007 , the band has consisted of actor Jared Leto  (  lead vocals , rhythm guitar , songwriter ) ,  शैनन  Leto ( drums , percussion ) and Tomo Miličević ( lead guitar , keyboards ) .
following  the departure of Matt Wachter (  अभी  of Angels & Airwaves ) in  2007   ,  Tim Kelleher became the bassist for  the  group , performing  सजीव  only with both Jared  और  Miličević recording bass for studio  रिकार्डिंग  , while Braxton Olita (  keyboards  ) was added  to   the  touring lineup in 2009 .
previously   ,  the group also featured  guitarists  Solon Bixler ( now of Great  उत्तरी  ) and Kevin Drake ( now of Polaroid Kiss  )   .
To date , 30 Seconds  to  Mars have released three studio albums – 30 Seconds to Mars (  2002  ) , A  खूबसूरत  Lie  (  2005  )  , This Is War ( 2009  )   और  three extended plays – AOL  सत्र   अंडरकवर  ( 2007  )   ,  To the Edge  of  the Earth ( 2008 ) , and MTV Unplugged : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011 ) .
30   सेकेंड  to Mars ' music has been associated mostly with  neo-prog  , progressive  मेटल  and post-grunge  ,  but they have also included emo , screamo , space rock  और  synthrock  into  their  म्यूज़िक  .
They have been compared to  गुलाबी  Floyd (  जो  were  an  influence on  उनके  work ) and Tool because of their use  of  philosophical and spiritual lyrics , concept albums  और  their use of  प्रायोगिक  music .
A Christmas Story is  a  1983 American Christmas  कॉमेडी  film  आधारित   on   the  short stories and semi-fictional anecdotes of author and  raconteur   जां  Shepherd , based  on  his book In God We  विश्वास  , All Others  अदा  Cash , with some  तत्व  derived  इससे  Wanda Hickey 's Night of Golden Memories .
it  was directed  by  Bob Clark .
The film has since become a holiday classic and is  दिखाया  numerous times on television during the  क्रिसमस  season on  the  network TBS , often  in  a 24-hour marathon  .
In 2012 , the film was selected  लिये  preservation in the  नेशनल  Film Registry by the Library of  कॉंग्रेस  for being  ``  culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
A Joe 's Crab Shack branch  in  San Diego  ,  CA .
The  भवन  was initially a rowing club and  थी  later  परिवर्तित  into the restaurant  .
जो  's  केकड़ा  Shack is an American chain of  beach-themed   seafood  casual dining  रेस्तरां  owned  by  Ignite Restaurant Group .
Founded  in  Houston , Texas ,  the  restaurant now operates  स्थितियाँ   सब  across the United States  of  America .
It serves seafood and American cuisine .
The restaurants  भी   have  a gift shop that  बिकता  facetious  t-shirts  featuring phrases advertising Joe 's seafood  चुनाव  .
It is based in Houston  ,  Texas .
New York  नगर   क्रूज  Liner  टर्मिनल  in Hell 's  रसोईघर  at  52nd  Street .
the  New York Passenger  जलयान  Terminal ( also known as the Luxury Liner  पंक्ति  or Manhattan Cruise Terminal or New  यॉर्क  Cruise  टर्मिनल  ) is a terminal for ocean-going  यात्री  ships on Manhattan 's west side  .
The terminal consists of North River Piers  88  , 90 , 92 and 94 on the  हडसन  River between West 46th  और  West 54th Street  .
( As a general rule , pier numbers in Manhattan can be  संकल्पित  by adding  40  to the  सम्बन्धित  cross-street . )
जहाजों  now dock at  पियर  88 , 90 and 92 .
बांध  94  on  the north  पक्ष  is now used for exhibition space .
Pier 86  ,  once used by United States Lines , is now home to the USS Intrepid .
in  2003 , the terminal handled  900,000   यात्री  .
The city is forecasting  कि  1.5 million will use  the  terminal by 2017 .
The piers are long and apart .
They  यहूद  first completed in  1935  to replace the Chelsea Piers as the city 's luxury liner terminal .
The new terminal was built to handle  बडे  ships that had outgrown the Chelsea Piers .
The piers  यहूद  renovated  in  1970 and are currently undergoing another $ 150  लाख  renovation .
The  संवर  plans call for it to handle three large ships at a time .
in  doing renovations , the city is also  considering  decommissioning  बांध  92 .
Logo of the  नई  York  क्रूज   terminal.for
decades the terminal was the only ocean-going passenger terminal in New York harbor .
साथ  an upsurge in cruise ship traffic and the  टर्मिनल   's  ability to handle  comfortably  only three large ships at a time , two new terminals have  खोली  in the harbor — the Cape Liberty Cruise Port opened  in   2004   in  Bayonne  ,   नई  Jersey ( used by Royal  caribbean  Cruise  लकीर  , Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Cruises ) , and the  ब्रुकलीन  Cruise Terminal ( used  by  the Queen Mary 2  और  other  जहाजों   of  the Carnival Corporation cruise brands  )  opened in 2006 in Brooklyn , New York .
The  वेस्ट   पक्ष  Highway takes a small jog east from the piers  to  below West 42nd Street because  जब  the terminal  थी  built land had to be taken away  इससे  Manhattan to  allow   लिये  longer  पियर  .
The US Army  corps  of Engineers , who control the waterfront dimension , would not extend the pierhead  लकीर  farther into the  नदी  , so the city extended  the  pier  by  cutting  दूर  at  the  land .
The city  पहले  did this for the Chelsea  पियर   ;   however  in Chelsea only  लैंडफिल  was taken away .
At  the   यात्री  Terminal actual Manhattan schist was taken away .
From downstream in the river
अनेक  major  यात्री  ships have docked  वहीँ  , including the RMS Queen Mary 2  और  Freedom of the Seas  ,  before  the  Brooklyn and Bayonne terminals opened  .
The SS Normandie caught fire and subsequently capsized at  इसके  Pier 88 berth during World  युद्ध  II  .
The  normandie   ,  renamed USS  lafayette  , lies capsized  in  the frozen mud at Pier 88 in the  शीत   of  1942
Norwegian Cruise Line 's soon  to  be newest ship the Norwegian Breakaway will sail year-round out of the New York Passenger Ship  टर्मिनल  .
The city will  खर्च  $ 4 million to renovate  और   उन्नयन   the  cruise  टर्मिनल  to accommodate the ship .
This  is  an overview  of  the regular , recurring , and other  वर्ण   of   the  TV series NCIS .
Christian right is a term used  in  the United States to describe right-wing Christian political groups that are characterized by their strong  support  of socially  रूढ़िवादी  policies .
ईसाई  conservatives principally seek to apply  उनके  understanding of the teachings of Christianity to politics  और  public policy  by  proclaiming the value of those teachings and/or by seeking to  उपयोग  those teachings to  influence  law and public policy .
In the U.S.  ,  the  ईसाई  right  is  an  अनौपचारिक  coalition formed around  a  core  of  evangelical Protestants that draws `` support from politically conservative  catholics  , Jews  ,  Mormons , and occasionally secularists  ''  who share their goals .
the  movement has its roots  in  American politics going back as far the 1940s and  रै  been  विशेषकर  influential since the 1970s .
Their influence draws ,  in  part  ,  from grassroots activism as well as their  फ़ोकस  on social  मुद्दे  and ability to motivate the electorate around those issues .
The Christian right is  notable  today for advancing  socially  conservative positions  on  issues  सहित  school prayer , stem cell research , homosexuality , contraception  ,  abortion  ,  and pornography .
Although  the  Christian right  is  usually associated with  the  U.S. , the  गति  has been  a  key factor in the politics of Canada ,  the   नीदरलैंड्स  , Northern  आयरलैंड  and Australia ,  among  others .
दूर  East Movement ( stylized as Far★East Movement or abbreviated FM ) is  an  American hip  हॉप  band  quartet  based in Los Angeles .
the  group formed in 2003 and consists of Kev Nish ( Kevin  nishimura  ) , Prohgress ( James Roh ) , J-Splif ( Jae Choung ) , and  dj  Virman ( Virman  coquia  )  .
Far East Movement 's  पहला  claim  to  fame was their  सोंग   ``  Round Round  ''  featured in the Hollywood movie , The Fast  और  the Furious : Tokyo Drift , and its  subsequent   साउंडट्रैक  , video game and DVD  .
चूंकि  ``  गोलाकार  Round ''  ,   the   समूह  has been featured on various network shows including , , Entourage , Gossip  लड़की  ,  और  Finishing the Game ( a featured  फिल्मी  at Sundance 2007  )  .
Their single `` Like a G6  ``  hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 Chart and  on  iTunes as well  in  late October 2010 .
दूर   ईस्ट  Movement also  रै   the  distinction  of  being the  पहला  Asian-American group  to  earn a # 1 hit on the Billboard  hot  100 in the  संयुक्त  States  .
LR44  is   the  IEC designation  लिये  an alkaline  1.5  volt button cell , commonly used in small LED flashlights  ,  digital thermometers ,  calculators  , calipers , watches , clocks ,  खिलौने  and laser  संकेतक  .
LR44  क्षारीय  cell
The battery  नामकरण  is defined by the International Electrotechnical Commission ( IEC ) in its 60086-3 standard ( Primary batteries , part 3 Watch batteries ) .
The letter L indicates the  electrochemical  system used ; a zinc negative electrode  ,  manganese dioxide depolarizer and positive electrode , and an alkaline electrolyte .
R44 indicates a round cell 11.4±0.2 mm diameter and 5.2±0.2  mm  height as defined by the  आईईसी  standard 60086  .
निर्माताओं  have their  अपना  part numbers for IEC  प्रकार  LR44 batteries  including:
LR44 , LR44G ,  lr44gd  , LR44H
LR1154 , L1154 , L1154C , L1154F ,  l1154g  ,  l1154h
6135-99-792-8475  ( NSN )
1166A
ag13  , A613 , AG14 ,  ag-14  , G13A  ,  G13-A
157  , 303 , 357
A76 , GDA76 ,  gp76a   ,  GPA7 , GPA75  ,  GPA76 , GPS76A,
1128mp  ,  208-904  , A-76 , CA18  ,  CA19 , CR44 ,  d76a   ,  KA , KA76 , MS76H , PX76A , PX675A , RPX675 , RW82 ,  sb-f9  , V13GA
4.5-volt  ,   d  , C , AA ,  aaa  ,  aaaa  , A23 , 9-volt , CR2032 and LR44  बैटरी
अन्य  types of batteries are or  यहूद  made  in  the R44 size  .
formerly  , mercury  बैटरी  were made as button cells ( types MR44 and NR44  )  .
Zinc-air batteries type  pr44  require  एयर   to   कार्य  .
Silver-oxide batteries  प्रकार  SR44 may provide extra capacity compared to  lr44  types but have slightly different voltage characteristics .
Performance of a device meant to use a silver-oxide battery may be degraded with substitution of LR44 types  .
Manufacturer  's  numbers for  चांदी  oxide R44 size cells include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240 ( NSN )
SR1154
1107SO
1131SOP
SG13
S76
epx76  ( Energizer )
303/357 (  d357h  )
Hurricane Katrina  थी  the  deadliest  and most  destructive   अटलांटिक  hurricane of the 2005  अटलांटिक  hurricane  ऋतु  .
It was  the  costliest natural disaster , as  खूब  as one of the five deadliest hurricanes  ,  in the history of the United  राज्य  .
Among recorded  अटलांटिक  hurricanes , it  थी  the  छठे  strongest  overall  .
At least 1,833 people died in  the  hurricane and subsequent floods  ,  making it the  deadliest  U.S. hurricane since the 1928  okeechobee  hurricane ;  कुल  property damage  थी  estimated at  $  81 billion ( 2005 USD )  ,  nearly triple the  क्षति   brought  by  hurricane  Andrew in 1992 .
Hurricane Katrina  formed   over   the  Bahamas on August 23  ,  2005 and crossed  दक्षिणी  Florida as a  मॉडरेट   श्रेणी  1 hurricane , causing some deaths and flooding  वहीँ   पहले  strengthening rapidly in  the  Gulf of Mexico  .
The hurricane strengthened to a Category 5  hurricane  over the warm Gulf water , but weakened  पहले  making its second  landfall  as a Category 3 hurricane  on  the morning  of  Monday , August 29  in   southeast  Louisiana .
It caused severe destruction along the Gulf coast from  सेंट्रल  Florida to Texas , much of it due to the storm surge .
the   सबसे  significant number of deaths  occurred  in New Orleans , Louisiana  ,  which flooded as the  तटबन्ध   प्रणाली   catastrophically  failed , in  अनेक  cases  घंटों  after the storm had moved inland .
Eventually 80  %   of  the  नगर   और  large tracts of neighboring parishes  became  flooded , and the floodwaters lingered for weeks  .
However , the worst property damage occurred in coastal areas  ,  such as all Mississippi beachfront towns , which were  flooded  over 90 %  in  hours ,  as  boats and casino barges rammed  इमारतें   ,  pushing cars and  घरों  inland , with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) from  the   बीच  .
the  hurricane  surge  protection failures in New Orleans are considered the worst civil engineering disaster  in  U.S. history and prompted a lawsuit against the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers  (  USACE )  ,   the  designers  और  builders of the levee system as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965 .
Responsibility for the  असफलताओं  and flooding  थी   रखी  squarely  on   the  Army  corps  in January 2008  by  Judge Stanwood Duval , U.S. District Court ,  लकिन  the federal agency could not be held financially liable due to sovereign immunity in  the   बाढ़  Control Act of  1928  .
There was also an investigation of the responses from federal , state and  लोकल  governments , resulting in the resignation of  संघीय  Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA  )  director Michael  D.  Brown ,  और  of New  ऑरलियन्स  Police Department ( NOPD )  अधीक्षक  Eddie Compass .
Several agencies including the  संयुक्त  States Coast Guard ( USCG )  ,  National  hurricane  Center  (  NHC ) , and National  मौसम   सेवा  ( NWS ) were commended for their actions .
They  provided  accurate  hurricane  weather tracking  forecasts  with  sufficient  lead time .
Even  the  most insistent appeals from national , state and local public officials to  निवासियों  to  evacuate   पहले  the storm did  नहीं   warn  that the  levees  could  उल्लंघन  and fail  .
U.S. debt from 1940  to  2011  .
Red  लाइनों  indicate the `` debt held by the  पब्लिक  ''  और  black lines indicate the total national debt or gross public debt .
The difference is the `` intragovernmental debt , '' which includes obligations to government programs  ऐसे  as Social Security .
stated   as  a formula ,  नेशनल  Debt = Debt held  by  the Public + Intragovernmental Debt .
The second panel shows the two debt  आंकड़े  as a percentage of U.S. GDP ( dollar  मान  of U.S. economic production for  कि  year ) .
the  top panel is deflated so every year is in 2010 dollars .
The United States public  कर्ज़  is the money borrowed  by  the federal government of the United States through the issuing of securities by  the  Treasury  और  other federal  सरकारी  agencies  .
US public debt consists of two  घटकs:
Debt held  by  the  पब्लिक   शामिल   राजकोष  securities held by investors  बाहर  the federal  सरकारी  , including that  आयोजित  by individuals ,  corporations   ,  the Federal Reserve System and foreign , state and local governments .
Debt held  by  government accounts or intragovernmental debt includes non-marketable  राजकोष   प्रतिभूति  held in  खाते   administered  by  the   संघीय  government  कि  are owed to  कार्यक्रम  beneficiaries , such as  the  Social Security Trust Fund .
Debt  आयोजित  by government accounts represents  the   संचयी  surpluses , including interest  आय  , of these accounts that have been invested  in  Treasury  प्रतिभूति   .
Public debt increases or  decreases  as a result of the annual  एकीकृत  budget deficit  or   surplus  .
the  federal government budget deficit or surplus is the difference between government receipts and  बिता  , ignoring intra-governmental transfers  .
However , some spending that is excluded from the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) also adds  to   the  debt .
Historically ,  the  US public debt as  a   share   of  GDP  increased  during wars  और  recessions , and subsequently declined .
For example ,  कर्ज़  held  by   the  public as a share of GDP peaked just after World  युद्ध  II ( 113 % of GDP  in  1945 )  ,  but then fell over  the  following 30 years .
In recent decades , however , large  बजट  deficits  और  the  resulting   increases   in  debt  have  led to concern about the long-term sustainability of the federal government 's fiscal  नीतियों  .
on  2 April 2013 , debt held  by  the public was approximately $ 11.959 trillion or  परिचय  75 % of GDP .
intragovernmental  holdings stood at $ 4.846  खरब  , giving a combined total  पब्लिक  debt of  $  16.805 trillion .
as  of  जनवरी  2013 , $ 5.6 trillion or approximately 47  %  of the debt held by the  पब्लिक  was owned by foreign  निवेशकों   ,   the   largest  of which were the  लोगों   's   गणतंत्र  of China and Japan at  बस  over $ 1.1 trillion each  .
In basketball , an assist is attributed to  a  player who  गुजरता   the  ball to a  teammate  in a way  कि  leads to a  स्कोर  by field  लक्ष्य  , meaning that  he  or she was ``  assisting  ''  in  the basket .
There is some judgment involved in deciding whether  a  passer  चाहिए  be credited  साथ  an assist .
An assist  can  be  scored  for the passer even if the player who receives the pass  makes  a basket after dribbling the ball  .
However , the original definition of  an  assist did not include  ऐसे  situations , so the  तुलना  of assist statistics across  eras  is a complex matter .
तभी   the  pass directly before the score may be counted as an assist , so no more than one assist can be recorded per field  लक्ष्य  (  नापसंद  in  अन्य  sports , such as ice  हॉकी   )   .
A  pass   कि  leads to a shooting  बेईमानी  and  स्कोरिंग  by free throws does  नहीं  count as  an  assist in  the  NBA  ,  but does in FIBA  खेल  ( only one assist is awarded per set of  फ़्री  throws in  जिससे  at least  एक  free throw is  बना  ) .
पाइंट  guards tend  to  get  the  most assists per game  (  apg )  ,  as their role is  primarily   कि  of a passer and ballhandler .
Centers tend to  मिलेंगी   कम  assists , but centers with  शुभ  floor presence and  अदालत  vision  can   dominate   a   टोली  by assisting .
Being inside the key ,  the   बीच  often has the best angles and the  बेहतरीन  position for  ``  dishes '' and  अन्य  short passes in  the  scoring area .
बीच  Wilt Chamberlain led the  एनबीए   in   assists  in 1968 .
A  दमदार  center with inside-scoring prowess , such as former NBA center Hakeem  olajuwon  , can also be  an  effective assistor because  the  defense 's double-teaming tends to  खोलें  up  ठोकर  in the form of shooters .
The NBA single-game  assist  record is  30  ,  आयोजित  by Scott Skiles of the  ऑरलैंडो  Magic against the Denver Nuggets , on  दिसम्बर   30  , 1990  .
The NBA record for  सबसे  career assists is held by John Stockton  साथ   15,806  .
The mill or  mille  ( )  (  sometimes  mil  in the  uk  , when discussing property taxes in the United  राज्य  ,  or  previously in Cyprus and Malta ) is a  now-abstract  unit of currency  प्रयुक्त  sometimes in accounting .
In the United States , it is a notional unit equivalent to of a United  राज्य   डालर  ( a tenth of  a  cent  )  .
In  the  United Kingdom  it  was proposed  दौरान  the decades  of  discussion on the decimalization of the  पाउंड   as  a division of the pound sterling .
अनेक   अन्य  currencies used the mill , such as the Maltese lira .
The term comes from the Latin  ``  millesimum '' , meaning  ``  thousandth part '' .
The Greco-Persian Wars  (  also often  पुकारा  the Persian Wars ) were a series of  विरोध  between the Achaemenid Empire of Persia and city-states of the Hellenic world that started in  499  BC  और  lasted until 449 BC .
The collision between the fractious political  संसार  of the Greeks and the enormous  साम्राज्य  of the Persians  began  when Cyrus the Great  conquered  Ionia  in  547 BC .
Struggling to  नियम  the independent-minded cities of  ionia  , the  फारसियों  appointed tyrants to  नियम  each  of  them .
इस  would prove to be the  सोर्स  of much trouble for the  यूनानियों  and Persians alike  .
In 499 BC  ,  the then tyrant  of  Miletus , Aristagoras , embarked on an expedition to conquer the island of Naxos ,  साथ   पारसी   support  ;  however  ,  the  expedition was a  क़हर  and , pre-empting his dismissal , Aristagoras incited  सब  of Hellenic  एशिया   नाबालिग  into rebellion  विरूद्ध  the Persians .
This  थी  the beginning of the Ionian  विद्रोह  , which would  पिछला   जबतक  493  bc  , progressively  आरेखण  more regions of Asia Minor  into   the  conflict .
aristagoras   secured   सैन्य  support from Athens  और  Eretria , and in 498 BC these forces helped  to  capture and burn the Persian  क्षेत्रीय  capital of Sardis .
The Persian king Darius the Great vowed to  have   बदला  on Athens and  eretria  for this act .
The revolt continued ,  साथ  the two sides effectively stalemated  throughout  497–495 BC .
In  494  BC  ,  the Persians  regrouped   ,  and attacked the epicentre of the revolt in Miletus .
At the Battle of Lade ,  the  Ionians suffered a decisive defeat  ,  and the rebellion collapsed ,  साथ  the  फाइनल  members being stamped out the  following  year .
Seeking to secure his empire from further revolts and from the interference of the  मेनलैंड  Greeks ,  दारा   embarked  on a scheme to conquer Greece and to punish  एथेंस   और  Eretria for burning Sardis .
The first Persian invasion  of  Greece began in 492  bc  , with the Persian general Mardonius conquering Thrace  और   macedon   पहले  several mishaps forced an early end to the  अभियान  .
In 490  bc  a second force was sent to  यूनानियों   ,  this time  आरपार  the Aegean Sea  ,  under the command of Datis and Artaphernes .
This expedition  subjugated  the Cyclades , before besieging , capturing and razing Eretria .
however  , while en  रूट  to attack Athens , the Persian force was decisively  पराजित  by the Athenians at the Battle of Marathon , ending  पारसी  efforts  लिये  the time being .
दारा  then  began   to  plan to complete the conquest of  यूनानियों  , but died in 486  bc  and  जिम्मेदारी  for the  conquest  passed  to  his son Xerxes I  .
In 480 BC , Xerxes  personally  led the  दूसरी   पारसी  invasion  of  Greece with one of the largest ancient armies ever  समवेत  .
Victory over the  'allied  '  यूनानी  states  (  led by Sparta  और  Athens ) at the Battle of Thermopylae  अनुमत  the  फारसियों  to torch Athens  और  overrun most of  यूनानियों  .
However ,  जबकि  seeking  to  destroy the  संयुक्त   यूनानी  fleet , the Persians suffered a severe defeat at the Battle of Salamis .
The following year , the confederated  यूनानियों  went on the offensive , defeating the Persian army  at   the  Battle of Plataea , and ending the invasion of  यूनानियों  .
The allied Greeks followed up their success  by  destroying the  बाकी  of  the  Persian fleet at the  बैटल  of Mycale , before expelling Persian  garrisons  from Sestos ( 479 BC ) and  byzantium  ( 478 BC ) .
The  क्रियाएँ   of  the general  pausanias  at the siege of Byzantium  alienated  many of the  यूनानी  states from the Spartans ,  और  the anti-Persian  गठबंधन   थी  therefore reconstituted around Athenian leadership , as the so-called Delian League  .
The Delian League continued to campaign against  फारस  for the next three decades ,  शुरूआत  with the expulsion of the remaining Persian garrisons from Europe .
At the Battle of the Eurymedon in  466   bc  , the  लीग   जीती  a double victory that  आखिरकार  secured  स्वतंत्रता  for the  शहरों  of  ionia   .
however  ,  the  League 's involvement  in  an Egyptian revolt ( from 460–454 BC ) resulted  in  a  विनाशकारी  defeat , and further campaigning was suspended .
A fleet  थी  sent to Cyprus in  451  BC , but achieved little ,  और  when it withdrew the Greco-Persian Wars drew to a  शांत  end .
Some historical sources suggest  the  end of  hostilities  was marked by a peace  सन्धि  between Athens and  फारस  , the  so-called   सलाम  of Callias .
Hooverville near Portland , Oregon
a  `` Hooverville '' is  the   लोकप्रिय   नाम  for shanty towns built by  बेघर  people during the Great  अवसाद  .
They were named after Herbert Hoover , who  थी  President of the United States during the onset of the  अवसाद  and  widely   blamed  for  it  .
The  पद  was  coined   by   चार्ल्स  Michelson , publicity chief of the Democratic  नेशनल   कमेटी  .
Matthew Michael Hasselbeck  (  born September 25 , 1975  )  is an American football quarterback for  the  Indianapolis Colts of  the  National Football  लीग  (  एनएफएल  ) .
He was drafted in the sixth round of the  1998  NFL Draft by the  ग्रीन   खाड़ी  Packers  .
After a season  on   the  practice squad and  दो  seasons backing  up  Brett Favre ,  he  was traded to  the   सिएटल  Seahawks in 2001 .
Hasselbeck  gained  the starting  भूमिका  in 2003 , and led  सिएटल  to six playoff appearances and a Super Bowl appearance ; he was selected to  तीन  Pro Bowls and  an  All-Pro  चयन  .
Following  टेन   सीज़न  with the Seahawks ,  hasselbeck  joined the Tennessee  टाइटन्स  in 2011  .
Hasselbeck then  हस्ताक्षरित  a  अनुबंध   साथ  the Indianapolis Colts in 2013 less than 24 hours after being released by the Tennessee Titans  .
ICT is  inevitably  related  to   the  computer  संजाल  .
Information  और  Communications Technology or  (  ICT ) ,  is  often used  as  an extended synonym for information  प्रौद्योगिकी   (  IT ) ,  लकिन  is a  अधिक  specific  पद  that stresses the  भूमिका   of  unified communications  और  the integration of  दूरसंचार  ( telephone lines and wireless  सिग्नल  ) , computers as well as necessary enterprise  तन्त्र  , middleware , storage , and audio-visual  प्रणालियों  , which enable users to access  ,  store , transmit , and  हेरफेर  information .
The  phrase  ICT had been used by academic researchers since the 1980s , but it became popular after  it  was used in  a   रपट  to the UK government  by  Dennis Stevenson  in  1997 and in the revised National Curriculum  लिये  England , Wales and  उत्तरी  Ireland in 2000  .
the  term ICT is  अभी   भी  used to  refer   to  the convergence  of  audio-visual and telephone networks with computer networks through a single cabling or  कड़ी   प्रणाली   .
There are large economic incentives ( huge cost savings due to elimination of the telephone  संजाल  )  to  merge the audio-visual , building management and telephone network with the computer network  प्रणाली  using a  सिंगल  unified system of cabling  ,  signal distribution and management  .
The term Infocommunications is used in  कुछ  cases as a shorter form of information and communication ( s ) technology .
In fact Infocommunications is the expansion of telecommunications  साथ  information processing and content handling  कृत्यों  on a common digital technology base .
For  a   तुलना  of these and other terms ,  देखिए  .
For ICT Development Index around the world , see .
This is a list  of  characters from George Lopez .
A schematic presentation of  the  plum pudding model  of  the atom ; in Thomson 's  गणितीय  model the `` corpuscles '' ( or modern electrons ) were arranged  non-randomly  , in rotating  बजती
The current model of the sub-atomic structure involves a dense nucleus surrounded  by  a probabilistic `` cloud ''  of  electrons
The plum pudding  मॉडल  of  the  atom by J. J. Thomson ,  जो  discovered  the  electron  in  1897  ,   थी   प्रस्तावित  in 1904  पहले  the discovery of the atomic nucleus in order to add  the  electron  to  the atomic  मॉडल  .
in  this model ,  the  atom is  रचित  of electrons (  जिससे  Thomson still called `` corpuscles '' ,  हालांकि  G. J. Stoney  था  proposed  कि  atoms  of  electricity be called electrons in 1894  )  surrounded by a soup of positive charge to balance the electrons ' negative charges , like negatively charged `` plums `` surrounded  by  positively  चार्ज  `` pudding `` .
The  electrons   (  as we know  उन्हें  today  )  were thought to be positioned throughout  the  atom  ,   लकिन  with many structures  संभावित  for positioning multiple electrons ,  विशेषकर  rotating  बजती  of electrons ( see  नीचे  ) .
Instead of  a  soup , the atom was  भी  sometimes said  to  have had a ``  बादल  '' of  धनात्मक  charge .
With this model ,  thomson  abandoned his earlier `` nebular atom  ''  hypothesis in which the atom was composed of immaterial  vortices  .
Now  ,   at   तनिक  part  of  the atom was to be composed of  thomson   's  particulate  ऋणात्मक   corpuscles  , although the rest  of   the  positively charged part of the atom remained somewhat nebulous and  ill-defined   .
The  1904  Thomson model was disproved by  the   1909  gold foil experiment  of   hans  Geiger  और   अर्नेस्ट  Marsden  .
This was interpreted  by   अर्नेस्ट  Rutherford in 1911
to imply a very small nucleus  of  the  अणु   containing  a  बहुत  high positive charge  (  in the case of gold , enough  to  balance about 100 electrons )  ,  thus leading to the Rutherford model of  the  atom .
Although gold has an  परमाणु   क्रमांक  of 79 , immediately  बाद   रदरफोर्ड   's   पेपर  appeared in  1911  Antonius Van den Broek made the intuitive suggestion that atomic number is nuclear charge  .
The matter required experiment to decide .
हेनरी  Moseley 's work  दिखाया  experimentally in 1913 ( see Moseley  's  law ) that the effective nuclear charge  थी   बहुत  close to the atomic number ( Moseley found only one unit difference  )   ,  and Moseley referenced only  the  papers of  वैन   डेन  Broek and Rutherford  .
इस  work culminated in  the  solar-system-like ( but quantum-limited ) Bohr model of  the  atom  in  the same year , in which a  केंद्रक  containing an  परमाणु  number  of  positive charge is surrounded by an  बराबर  number of electrons  in  orbital shells .
Bohr had also  प्रेरित  Moseley 's work .
Thomson 's model was compared ( though  नहीं  by Thomson )  to  a British dessert called plum  खीर  , hence the name .
Thomson 's paper was  प्रकाशित  in the March 1904 edition of the Philosophical Magazine ,  the  leading  अंग्रेजों  science journal of the  दिन  .
In Thomson 's  दृश्य   :  ...  the  atoms of  the  elements  consist  of  a  number of negatively  electrified  corpuscles enclosed in a sphere of  वर्दी  positive electrification , ...
in  this model , the electrons were free  to   घूर्णन   भीतर  the  blob  or cloud of positive  पदार्थ   .
These orbits were stabilized  in  the model by the fact that when  an  electron moved farther from  the  center of the  धनात्मक  cloud ,  it  felt  a  larger net positive inward force , because there was  अधिक  material  of  opposite charge , inside its  कक्षा  ( see Gauss 's  विधि   )   .
In Thomson 's model , electrons were free to rotate in  बजती   जिससे   यहूद  further  stabilized  by interactions between the  electrons  ,  और  spectra were to be accounted for by energy  मतभेद  of different  रिंग  orbits .
Thomson attempted to  मेक   उसके  model account  लिये  some of the major spectral lines known for some elements ,  लकिन  was not notably successful  at  this .
Still , Thomson 's model ( along with a similar  saturnian   रिंग  model  लिये   परमाणु   electrons   ,  also put  आगे  in 1904 by  nagaoka  after James Clerk Maxwell 's model of Saturn 's  बजती  )  ,  were earlier  harbingers   of  the later and more  कामयाब  solar-system-like  bohr  model of the  अणु  .
Typical strip of  बेकन  .
Bacon  is  a cured meat prepared from a  सुअर  .
It is first cured using  विशाल  quantities of salt , either in a brine or in  a  dry  पैकिंग  ; the result  is  fresh bacon ( also  ज्ञात   as  green bacon ) .
Fresh bacon  may   तब  be further dried for weeks or months in cold air , or it may be boiled or  स्मोक्ड  .
भैस  and dried bacon is typically  पकाया  before  खाने   .
boiled  bacon  is   तैयार   to  eat , as is some smoked  बेकन  ,  लकिन   may  be cooked further before eating .
Bacon is prepared from  अनेक  different cuts of meat .
it  is usually made from  पक्ष  and back cuts of  पोर्क  , except in the United States , where  it  is almost always prepared from pork belly (  typically  referred to as `` streaky  ''  , `` fatty  ''  ,  or  ``  अमरीकी  style '' outside of the US and Canada )  .
The side cut  रै  more meat and less fat  than  the belly .
Bacon may  be  prepared from either  of   दो  distinct  वापस  cuts : fatback ,  जिससे  is  लगभग   pure  fat , and  पोर्क   loin  , which  is  very lean .
bacon-cured  pork loin is known as  वापस  bacon  .
Uncooked pork belly bacon strips .
Bacon may be eaten smoked ,  boiled  , fried ,  baked  , or grilled , or used as a minor ingredient to  स्वाद  dishes .
बेकन  is also used for barding and larding roasts , especially game , e.g  .  venison ,  pheasant  .
The word is derived from the Old High German bacho , meaning `` buttock '' ,  ``  ham  ''  or `` side of bacon '' , and cognate  साथ  the Old  फ्रेंच  bacon .
In  महाद्वीपीय  Europe  ,  this part of the pig  is  usually  नहीं  smoked like bacon  is  in the United States ; it is used primarily  in  cubes ( lardons ) as  a  cooking ingredient , valued both  as  a source of fat and for its  स्वाद  .
In Italy , this  is  called pancetta and is usually cooked in small  घन   or  served uncooked and thinly  sliced  as  भाग  of an  antipasto  .
Meat from other animals  ,  such as beef , lamb  ,  chicken , goat  ,   or   तुर्कों   ,  may also be  काटें  , cured , or otherwise  prepared  to  resemble  bacon  ,  and  may  even be  referred  to  as  ``  बेकन  ''  .
Such use is common in areas with significant Jewish and  मुस्लिम   populations   .
the  USDA defines  बेकन  as `` the  cured  belly of a swine carcass '' ; other cuts  और  characteristics  जरूर   be  separately  योग्य  ( e.g. , `` smoked pork loin  बेकन  '' ) .
लिये   सुरक्षा   ,  bacon must  be  treated  to  prevent trichinosis ,  caused  by  trichinella  , a  parasitic  roundworm which can be destroyed by  हीटिंग  , freezing , drying  ,  or smoking  .
Bacon is distinguished from salt pork and ham by differences  in  the  brine  ( or dry  पैकिंग  ) .
Bacon brine  रै  added curing ingredients ,  सबसे  notably  सोडियम  nitrite , and occasionally sodium nitrate or potassium nitrate ( saltpeter ) ; sodium ascorbate or  erythorbate  are added to accelerate curing and  stabilize  color .
Flavorings such as  भूरा  sugar or maple are used for  कुछ  products .
If  प्रयुक्त  , sodium  polyphosphates  are added to improve  sliceability  and reduce  spattering  when the  बेकन  is pan fried .
Today  ,  a brine for ham ,  लकिन  not  बेकन  , includes  a  large amount of sugar .
Historically ,  ``  ham ''  और   ``  bacon '' referred to different cuts of meat  कि  were brined or packed identically , often together in the same barrel .
The Employee Retirement Income Security  अधिनियम  of 1974 ( ERISA ) ( , codified in part at ) is a federal law which establishes  न्यूनतम  standards for pension plans  in  private industry and provides for extensive rules  on  the federal  आय  tax effects  of  transactions associated with employee benefit plans .
erisa  was  enacted  to protect the interests  of  employee benefit plan  भागीदार  and their beneficiaries by:
Requiring the disclosure of financial and  अन्य   सूचना   concerning   the  plan to beneficiaries  ;
Establishing standards of conduct for plan fiduciaries ;
providing  for appropriate  remedies  and access to  the  federal courts .
ERISA is sometimes used to refer to the  पूरा  body of laws regulating employee  लाभ  plans , which are found mainly  in   the  Internal Revenue Code and ERISA itself .
Responsibility for the interpretation and enforcement of ERISA is  विभाजित   among  the Department  of  Labor  ,  the Department of the  राजकोष  ( particularly the Internal Revenue Service ) , and the Pension Benefit  guaranty   निगम  .
Illegal immigration  to  the  संयुक्त  States  is  the act of  विदेशी  nationals entering the United  राज्य  , without government  अनुमति  and in  उल्लंघन  of United States  राष्ट्रीयता  law , or staying beyond the termination date of  a  visa , also  in  violation of the law  .
A warning  चिह्न   at  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   boundary   between   the  United States and Canada in Point Roberts , Washington .
A much different approach at the U.S.-Mexico border  निकट   el  Paso , Texas
the  undocumented immigrant population of  the  United States  in  2008 was estimated by the Center for Immigration Studies to be about 11 million people  ,  down from 12.5 million people  in   2007  .
Other estimates  दायरा  from 7 to 20 million .
According to a 2005  pew  Hispanic  बीच   रपट   ,  56 % of undocumented immigrants were from Mexico ; 22 % were from  अन्य  Latin American  देशों  ; 13 %  यहूद   इससे  Asia ; 6 % were  इससे  Europe and Canada ; and 3 % were  इससे  Africa and  the   बाकी  of the world .
एल्विन   स्वतंत्र  School District  is  a school  ज़िला  based in Alvin , Texas ( USA  )  .
एल्विन  ISD is a large suburban school district south of Houston in the communities of Alvin , Manvel , Pearland ,  hillcrest  , Rosharon , Iowa  उपनिवेश   ,  Liverpool ,  और  Amsterdam .
AISD serves  pearland  city 's rapidly  growing  western portion of  the  city including the new large master-planned  समुदायों  of Shadow Creek Ranch , South Fork , and  दक्षिणी   trails  .
Alvin ISD covers  of  land .
In human anatomy , the ulnar nerve is a  तंत्रिका  which  रनों  near the ulna bone .
The ulnar collateral  स्नायु  of elbow joint is  in  relation with the ulnar  तंत्रिका  .
The  तंत्रिका  is the largest unprotected nerve in  the  human body ( meaning  unprotected  by muscle or bone ) , so  चोट  is common .
इस   तंत्रिका   is  directly  कनेक्ट  to the little finger , and the adjacent half of the ring finger , supplying  the  palmar side of these fingers , including  दोनो  front and back of the tips  ,  perhaps  as  far  वापस  as  the   fingernail  beds .
One method of  injuring  the nerve is  to   स्ट्राइक  the medial epicondyle of the  humerus   इससे  posteriorly , or  inferiorly  with  the   कोहनी   flexed  .
the  ulnar nerve is trapped between the  अस्थि  and  the  overlying skin at  इस  point .
This  is  commonly referred to as  bumping  one 's  ``  funny bone ''  .
This name is thought  to  be a  pun  ,  आधारित   on   the  sound resemblance between the  नाम   of   the   अस्थि   of  the upper  भुजा  , the `` humerus  ``  and the  शब्द   ``  humorous `` .
Alternatively , according  to   the  Oxford  अंग्रेज़ी   शब्दकोष  it may refer to `` the peculiar sensation  अनुभवी  when  it  is  struck  '' .
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and  wizardry  , shortened Hogwarts , is a fictional British  स्कूल  of  जादू  for students aged eleven  to  eighteen , and is the primary  सेटिंग   लिये  the first six books  in  J.K.  रोलिंग  's Harry Potter series .
Rowling has  सुझाया  that she may have inadvertently taken the name from the hogwort  संयंत्र   (  Croton capitatus ) , which she had seen  at   kew  Gardens some  समय  before  लिखने  the series  ,  although  the  names `` The Hogwarts '' and ``  hoggwart  '' appear  in  the 1954 Nigel Molesworth book How To Be Topp  by  Geoffrey Willans .
Hogwarts school was  voted  as the 36th best Scottish  शैक्षणिक  establishment in  a  2008 online  रैंकिंग  ,  outranking  Edinburgh 's Loretto School  .
According to a director of the Independent Schools Network Rankings  ,  it  थी  added to the schools  लिस्टिंग  ``  लिये  fun  ''   और  was then voted on  .
The U.S.  subprime  mortgage  संकट  was a set of events and  शर्तें  that led  to  a financial  संकट   और  subsequent  मंदी   कि  began in 2008 .
It was characterized by a rise in subprime  बंधक  delinquencies and foreclosures , and the resulting  मनाही  of securities backed by said mortgages .
Several major financial institutions collapsed in September  2008  , with significant disruption  in  the flow of credit to businesses and  उपभोक्ता  and the onset of a severe global recession .
There were  अनेक  causes of the  संकट  ,  साथ  commentators  assigning  different  स्तर  of blame to financial  संस्थानों  ,  regulators   ,  credit agencies  ,   सरकारी  housing policies  ,  and consumers  ,  among others .
A proximate cause was the  वृद्धि  in subprime lending .
The percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated  दौरान  a  दिए   साल  rose from  the  historical 8 % or lower  दायरा   to  approximately  20  %  इससे  2004 to 2006 , with much  उच्चतर   ratios  in some parts of the U.S .
A high percentage of these  subprime  mortgages ,  over  90 % in 2006 for example , were adjustable-rate  mortgages  .
These two changes  यहूद  part of  a  broader trend of lowered lending  मानकों  and higher-risk mortgage  उत्पाद  .
Further , U.S. households had  become  increasingly indebted , with  the  ratio of debt to disposable personal income rising from 77 %  in   1990   to  127 % at the end of 2007 , much of this increase  mortgage-related  .
जब  U.S. home prices declined steeply  बाद  peaking in mid-2006 ,  borrowers  '  क्षमता  to  पुनर्वित्त  their loans  became  more  मुश्किल   .
As adjustable-rate mortgages  began   to  reset  at  higher interest rates  (  causing higher  मासिक  payments ) ,  बंधक  delinquencies soared .
Securities backed with mortgages , including subprime mortgages , widely  आयोजित  by financial firms globally  ,   खोया   सबसे   of  their  मान   .
Global  निवेशकों   भी  drastically reduced purchases of mortgage-backed debt  और  other securities as part of a decline  in  the capacity  और  willingness of the private  वित्तीय  system  to  support lending  .
Concerns about the soundness  of  U.S. credit and financial  बाज़ार  led to  tightening  credit around  the  world  और   slowing  economic growth in the U.S. and Europe .
The crisis had severe  ,  long-lasting consequences for the U.S. and  यूरोपीय   economies  .
the  U.S. entered a  गहन  recession , with  nearly  9 million jobs  खोया  during 2008  और   2009  , roughly  6  % of the workforce .
U.S. housing  कीमतें  fell nearly  30  % on  औसत  and the  u.S.   भण्डार  market fell approximately 50 % by early 2009 .
as   of   जल्दी   2013   ,  the U.S.  भण्डार  market had recovered to its pre-crisis peak but  आवास  prices remained near  उनके  low point and unemployment  remained  elevated  .
Economic growth remained below  pre-crisis   स्तर  .
Europe also continued to struggle  साथ  its own economic crisis  .
Carl Jung in  1910  .
Myers  और   briggs  extrapolated  उनके   mbti  theory from Jung 's writings  in  his book Psychological  प्रकार  .
The Myers-Briggs Type  indicator   (  MBTI  )  assessment is a  psychometric  questionnaire designed to  माप  psychological preferences in  कैसा  people perceive the world and make decisions  .
These preferences were extrapolated from  the  typological theories proposed  by  Carl Gustav Jung and first published in  उसके   1921  book  मनोवैज्ञानिक  Types (  अंग्रेज़ी  edition , 1923 )  .
Jung theorized that there are four principal psychological functions  by  which we experience the world : sensation , intuition , feeling , and thinking .
एक   of  these four functions  is  dominant most of the  समय  .
the   असली  developers of the  व्यक्तित्व   inventory  were Katharine Cook Briggs and her daughter ,  इसाबेल  Briggs Myers ; these  दो  , having studied extensively  the   कार्य  of Jung , turned their interest of human behavior into  a  devotion of turning the theory of psychological types to  व्यावहारिक  use  .
They  began  creating the indicator during  संसार  War II , believing that a knowledge of personality preferences would  सहायता   महिलाओं  who were entering the  औद्योगिक  workforce for the first time to identify the sort of war-time jobs that would  be   ``  most comfortable  और  effective '' .
The initial  प्रश्नावली  grew into the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ,  जिससे  was first published in 1962 .
The MBTI focuses on normal populations  और  emphasizes the value of naturally occurring differences .
रॉबर्ट  Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI is that we all have specific preferences  in  the way we construe  हमारी  experiences , and  ये  preferences  underlie  our interests  ,  needs , values , and motivation '' ( p. 499  )  .
`` Judas '' is a song by  अमरीकी  recording artist Lady Gaga  ,  from  उसके   दूसरी  studio album Born This Way ( 2011 ) .
It was released by Interscope  रिकॉर्ड  on April  15  , 2011  ,  four days  ahead  of its scheduled release .
Written and produced by Lady Gaga and  redone  , `` Judas ''  is  a dance and electro house song about a  स्त्री  in love with a man who  गद्दारी  her  .
it  embodies the incidents  कि  have  haunted  Gaga  in   the  past ,  और  its core meaning refers to the negative parts of  उसके  life that she ca n't  एस्केप   .
Gaga has further explained that the song was  भी  about  honoring  one  's   भीतरी  darkness  in  order to  लाओ  oneself into  the  light .
the   कलाकृति  for the single was designed by Gaga  in  Microsoft Word .
In spite of a  polarizing  impact on several  धार्मिक  groups ,  the  song was generally well received by critics ,  जो  likened  the  song  to  `` Bad Romance ``  साथ   कुछ  noting it should have been  the  album 's lead single .
The  सोंग  has a similar sound to Gaga 's  पिछला  RedOne-produced tracks , including `` Poker  फेस  `` , `` LoveGame ``  ,  ``  ख़राब  Romance '' , and  ``   alejandro   ``  .
It contains three distinct hooks and a house -influenced  ब्रेक   bas  .
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the breakdown talk about her as beyond redemption , regarding the traditional views of  कया  a woman should be .
``  यहूदा  ''  initially  had  a  strong  बिक्री  opening  ,  but was less successful commercially  in  comparison to Gaga 's previous singles  .
The song reached the top  टेन  of the charts  in  most major music markets ,  और  also  पहुँचे  the  शीर्ष  of the  चार्ट  in  दक्षिण  Korea .
A music video for the song was  फिल्माया  in April 2011  ,   co-directed  by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson  और  co-starring Norman Reedus .
it   रै  a Biblical  कथानक  where Reedus played Judas Iscariot and Gaga played Mary Magdalene .
The video portrays them as modern day missionaries going to  जेरूसलम  .
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying Jesus ,  और   ended  with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death .
Before its release , the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the alleged  उपयोग  of  धार्मिक  imagery and her role in the  वीडियो  .
However  ,  critics generally praised the video , not  ढूंढना  any offensive content .
The video was  मनोनीत  for two awards at  the  2011 MTV Video Music Awards .
Gaga has performed ``  यहूदा  '' on  a  number of television shows  ,   सहित  The Graham Norton Show , Saturday Night  सजीव  , Good Morning Americas `` Summer Concert Series '' , the French X Factor  as  well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show .
Marvin Gaye  (   अप्रैल  2 , 1939April 1 , 1984 )  ,  born Marvin Pentz Gay , Jr. , was an American singer-songwriter and musician .
Gaye  helped  to  आकार  the sound of  motown  Records in the  1960s  with a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is (  to  Be Loved By You ) `` and  ``   i  Heard It Through the Grapevine ``  और  duet recordings with Mary Wells and  tammi  Terrell , later  कमाई  the titles  ``  Prince  of  Motown '' and `` Prince  of  Soul ''  .
दौरान  the 1970s , Gaye recorded  the   अवधारणा   एल्बम  What 's Going On and Let  's   मिलेंगी  It On and became among the first artists in Motown to  ब्रेक  away from  the  reins of its  उत्पादन   कम्पनी   .
Gaye 's later  रिकार्डिंग  influenced  अनेक  R &  b  subgenres such as quiet storm and neo-soul .
Following a  काल  in Europe under a  कर  exile in the  जल्दी  1980s  ,  Gaye released the 1982  ग्रैमी   award-winning  hit `` Sexual  healing   ``  and  the  Midnight Love album  .
Since his death in 1984 , Gaye  रै  been posthumously honored by many  संस्थानों  , including the Grammy  आजीवन  Achievement Award and  the  Rock and Roll Hall of Fame .
the  Academy Award for Best Picture is  एक  of the Academy Awards  of   मेरिट  presented annually by the Academy of  गति  Picture Arts  और  Sciences  (  AMPAS  )  to producers  working  in the  गति  picture industry and is  the  only category  in  which every member is eligible to  मनोनीत  for  .
Best Picture is considered  the  most important  of  the Academy Awards , as it represents all the directing , acting  ,   म्यूज़िक  composing , writing ,  संपादन   और   अन्य  efforts  put  forth into a film .
Consequently ,  बेहतरीन  Picture is the final award and the  निष्कर्ष  of the annual Academy Awards ceremony  .
The Grand  staircase   कालम  at the Dolby Theatre in Los  एंजिल्स   ,   जहाँ   the   अकादमी  Awards ceremonies have been held since  2002  , showcase every film  कि  has won the Best Picture title since the award 's  inception  85 years ago .
Heavy Rain is an interactive drama action-adventure video game created by  फ्रेंच  developer Quantic Dream exclusively for  the  PlayStation 3  .
The  खेल  is written and  निर्देशित  by  quantic  Dream 's founder  और  CEO  दाउद  Cage .
भारी  Rains  स्टोरी   is  a dramatic thriller modelled after  फिल्मी   noir  , featuring four  protagonists  involved with the mystery of the Origami Killer , a serial killer who uses  विस्तारित  periods of rainfall to  डुबो  his victims .
ethan   मंगल  is trying  to  save  उसके  son  इससे  being the next victim , while investigative journalist Madison Paige , FBI  profiler  Norman Jayden  ,  and  निजी   जासूस  Scott Shelby are each  trying  to track down clues to the Origami Killer  's  identity .
The player interacts  साथ  the game by performing actions  highlighted  on screen related to  motions  on the controller  ,  and in some cases , performing a series of quick  समय  events during fast-paced action sequences  .
the   खिलाड़ी  's decisions and actions during the game will affect  the  narrative .
the  main characters can be  मारे  , and  निश्चित  actions may lead  to   अलग  scenes and endings .
A playable  डेमो  was  released  on 11 February 2010 .
The demo was  released  prior  to  this  तिथि  for people who took part in  a  Four  दिन  Challenge on 5 February 2010 .
A patch to allow use  of  the PlayStation Move controller  to   खेल  the game was released  in  September 2010 .
Heavy Rain was critically  acclaimed  and has sold over two million copies .
It won  2010  's Game of the  साल  from CNN and Gaming Union ,  और   बेहतरीन   ps3  Game of 2010  by   gamespy  and IGN  .
A modified version of  the  game was released titled  भारी  Rain Edition Modifiée exclusively in France  ,  aimed towards a younger audience  .
In 2010 , the game was included in the book 1001 Video Games You Must Play Before You Die .
Total superannuation industry liabilities  :  members funds and reserves ( A $ millions ) since 1988 .
Annual total superannuation  उद्योग  asset growth 1996-2005 .
Superannuation in Australia  refers  to  the  arrangements which  लोगों  make in Australia to  have  funds available for them in retirement  .
In Australia  ,  superannuation arrangements are government-supported and encouraged  ,   और  minimum provisions are  अनिवार्य   लिये  employees .
For example  ,  employers are  जरूरी   to   अदा  a proportion of an  कर्मचारी  's salaries and wages (  फिलहाल  9 % ) into a superannuation fund , but people  हैं  encouraged to put aside  अतिरिक्त  funds  into  superannuation .
the  minimum obligation required  by  employers is set to increase  to  12 % gradually stepping  annually  from 2013 to 2020  .
An  व्यक्तिगत  can  withdraw  funds  आउट  of a  superannuation  fund when the person  meets  one of  the   शर्तें   of   रिलीज  contained  in  Schedule 1 of the Superannuation Industry ( Supervision  )   regulations  1994  .
This is  a  list  of  the  वर्ण   इससे  the  अमरीकी   comedy-drama  television series  the  Game .
Electoral College map showing the results  of  the 2012 U.S. presidential election .
President Barack Obama ( D - IL )  जीती  the  लोकप्रिय   vote  in 26 states and  the   ज़िला  of Columbia ( denoted in blue ) to capture 332 electoral votes  .
पूर्व  Governor Mitt Romney  (  R - MA ) won  the  popular  vote  in 24 states (  denoted  in red )  to  capture 206 electoral votes  .
cartogram  representation of the  चुनावी  College vote  लिये  the 2012 election , with each square representing one electoral vote .
The United States Electoral College is the institution that officially elects the President and Vice  अध्यक्ष   of  the United  राज्य   प्रत्येक   चार   सालो  .
the  President and Vice President are not elected directly  by  the  मतदाता  .
Instead ,  वे  are elected by ``  निर्वाचक  '' who are chosen by  लोकप्रिय  vote on a  state-by-state  basis  .
Electors are  apportioned  to each state and the District of Columbia , but not to  territorial   possessions   of  the  संयुक्त  States , such as Puerto  रीको  and Guam .
the  number of electors in each state is equal  to  the number of  सदस्यों  of Congress to which  the  state is entitled .
The Twenty-third Amendment has always resulted in the  ज़िला  of Columbia  having  three  निर्वाचक   .
There are 538 electors ,  आधारित  on there being 435  प्रतिनिधि  and 100  सीनेटरों  , plus the three electors from the District of Columbia .
Electors are  pledged  to particular presidential and  वाइस  presidential candidates , though  unpledged   निर्वाचक  are  संभावित   .
in  all states ,  मगर  Maine and Nebraska , electors are elected  on   a  `` winner-take-all '' basis .
That is , all electors pledged to the presidential candidate  जो  wins the most votes in  a  state become electors for that  राज्य  .
maine  and Nebraska use  the   ``   congressional  district method '' , selecting one elector within each  congressional  district by popular vote and  selecting  the  बाकी  two  निर्वाचक  by a statewide popular  vote  .
Although no elector is required by  संघीय  law to honor  a   प्रतिज्ञा  , there have only  महरूम  very few occasions when an  elector  voted contrary to a pledge .
The Twelfth Amendment specifies how a President and Vice President are elected and  requires  each elector to cast one vote for President and  another  vote for Vice  अध्यक्ष  .
Critics argue that the Electoral College  is  inherently undemocratic and gives swing states disproportionate influence in electing the President  और  Vice  अध्यक्ष   .
The Electoral College gives a numeric advantage  in  the election of  the  president to the smaller  राज्य  , as the minimum  क्रमांक  of  निर्वाचक   लिये  the  छोटी  states  is  three compared to one  लिये   the  election  of   प्रतिनिधि  .
On the  अन्य  hand  ,  the winner-take-all method of  मतदान   favors  the larger states .
A number of constitutional amendments  have  been proposed seeking  to  alter the  चुनावी   कॉलेज   or   बदलें  it with a direct popular  vote  .
Barack Hussein  ओबामा  II ( ; born August 4  ,  1961 )  is   the  44th and current President of the  संयुक्त  States , the  पहला  African American to hold the office .
Born in Honolulu  ,  Hawaii , Obama is a graduate  of  Columbia University and Harvard Law School , where he was  अध्यक्ष  of  the   हार्वर्ड  Law  पुनर्विलोकन  .
He was a community  आयोजक  in Chicago before earning his law degree  .
He worked  as  a civil rights  attorney  in  शिकागो  and taught  संवैधानिक  law  at  the University of Chicago Law School from  1992   to  2004 .
he   परोसा  three terms representing the 13th District in the Illinois Senate  इससे  1997 to  2004  ,  कार्यशील   unsuccessfully  for the  संयुक्त   राज्य  House of  प्रतिनिधि  in 2000 .
in   2004  , Obama received national attention during his campaign to represent  इलिनोइस  in the United States Senate with his victory  in   the  March Democratic  पार्टी   प्राथमिक   ,  his keynote address at the  लोकतांत्रिक   नेशनल  Convention in July ,  और   उसके  election to the Senate in November .
He began  उसके  presidential campaign in 2007 ,  और  in 2008  ,  after  a   बंद  primary campaign against Hillary Rodham Clinton  ,  he won sufficient delegates in the Democratic Party primaries to receive the presidential  नामांकन  .
he  then defeated Republican  nominee  John McCain in the  सामान्य  election  ,  and was inaugurated  as   अध्यक्ष  on January 20 , 2009 .
नौ  months later  ,   ओबामा   थी  named  the  2009 Nobel  सलाम   पुरस्कार  laureate .
he  was re-elected president in November  2012  , defeating Republican nominee Mitt Romney , and  थी  sworn in for a second  पद  on January 20 , 2013 .
Early in his first term in  दफ्तर  ,  ओबामा  signed into law economic stimulus legislation in response  to  the Great Recession in the form  of  the  अमरीकी  Recovery and Reinvestment Act  of  2009 and  the  Tax Relief , Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization ,  और  Job Creation  अधिनियम  of 2010 .
Other major domestic  पहलों  in his presidency include the Patient  सुरक्षा  and Affordable Care  अधिनियम   ,  often referred to as `` Obamacare  ''   ;   the  Dodd–Frank Wall  गली  Reform and Consumer Protection Act ;  the  Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 ; the Budget Control Act  of  2011 ;  और  the American Taxpayer  राहत   अधिनियम  of  2012   .
In May 2012 , he became the first sitting U.S. president  to  publicly  support   same-sex  marriage and in 2013 his  प्रशासन  filed  briefs  which urged the Supreme Court to rule in favor of same-sex couples in two high-profile  मामले  .
In foreign policy , Obama ended U.S. military involvement in  the  Iraq War , increased troop levels in  अफगानिस्तान  , signed the New START arms control treaty with Russia , ordered  u.S.   सैन्य   भागीदारी  in  लीबिया  ,  और  ordered  the   सैन्य  operation that  resulted  in  the  death of Osama bin Laden  .
the   होंडा  CBR1100XX  सुपर  Blackbird was  a  Honda motorcycle made from 1996 to 2007 .
The bike was developed to challenge the Kawasaki Ninja ZX-11 as the world 's  तीव्रतम  production motorcycle ,  और  Honda succeeded with a top  गति  of .
Two  सालो  later the title passed to the Suzuki Hayabusa , which reached  .
The Blackbird is  नामित  after  the  Lockheed  sr-71  , also a speed record holder  .
नमूना   दृश्य  of  an   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  health record based on images
Sample view of an electronic health record
An electronic health  रिकार्ड  ( EHR  )   is  an evolving  अवधारणा  defined as a systematic collection of electronic health information about individual patients or populations .
It is  a  record  in  digital format that is theoretically capable of  होने  shared across  अलग  health care settings .
In some cases this sharing can occur by way  of  network-connected  enterprise-wide   सूचना  systems and other information networks or  exchanges  .
EHRs may include a range  of  data  ,  including demographics , medical history  ,  medication  और  allergies  ,  immunization  औकात  , laboratory test results  ,  radiology images , vital signs , personal stats  जैसे  age  और  weight , and billing information .
the  Mariner up on the mast  in  a storm .
One of the wood-engraved illustrations by Gustave  doré  .
the  Rime of the Ancient  मेरिनर  (  originally  The Rime of the Ancyent  marinere  ) is the longest major  कविता  by the English poet  सैमुएल  Taylor  कॉलरिज  , written  in  1797–98 and published in 1798  in  the first edition  of   गीतात्मक  Ballads  .
Modern editions use  a  later revised version  मुद्रित  in 1817  कि  featured a gloss .
Along  साथ  other poems in Lyrical Ballads  ,  it was a signal  शिफ़्ट   to  modern poetry and the beginning of British  रोमांटिक  literature .
a  proxy auto-config ( PAC  )  file defines how web browsers and other user agents can  automatically  choose the appropriate proxy  सर्वर   (  access method )  लिये   fetching  a  दिए  URL  .
A PAC file  contains  a  जावास्क्रिप्ट  function “FindProxyForURL ( url  ,  host ) ” .
इस  function returns a string  साथ  one or more access method specifications  .
These specifications cause the user agent  to   उपयोग  a particular proxy  सर्वर  or to  कनेक्ट  directly .
अनेक  specifications  provide  a fall-back when a proxy  fails   to   respond   .
The browser fetches  इस  PAC file before requesting other URLs .
the  URL of the PAC file is  either  configured manually  or  determined automatically by the Web  प्रॉक्सी  Autodiscovery Protocol .
Zendaya Coleman ( born September 1 , 1996  )  , known mononymously as  zendaya  , is an American actress , singer  और   नर्तकी   .
she stars on  the  Disney Channel sitcom Shake  it  Up as  रॉकी  Blue .
She has starred in two  films  and played one of the lead roles in the film Frenemies  as  Halley  ब्रैंडन  .
She voiced Fern in the  pixie  Hollow  खेल  .
She  appeared  in Good Luck Charlie as Rocky Blue  और  in a Good Luck Charlie and Shake It Up  क्रॉसओवर   शीर्षक  Charlie Shake It Up .
She appeared on PrankStars as herself in the  एपीसोड  `` Walk The Prank  ''  and on A.N.T . Farm  as  Sequoia Jones  in  the  एपीसोड  `` Creative ConsultANT  .   ''
Zendaya is also a musician .
She  हस्ताक्षरित   a   सौदे  with Hollywood Records on August 8 , 2012 and started recording songs for her debut album on August  12   ,  2012 .
She released a  सिंगल   इससे   an  independent  लेबल  called `` Swag  it  Out `` and  another  single with Bella  thorne   पुकारा  `` Watch Me , '' which is featured on the Break It Down album .
On March 20 , 2012 ,  zendaya   और  Bella Thorne  released  an album together called Shake It Up : Live  2  Dance ,  प्रत्येक  have their own song on it , along with a mash-up of both songs together  as  one .
On August  21  ,  2012  , Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an EP called Shake It  up  : Made In Japan .
Zendaya has  a  Christmas song called `` Shake Santa Shake , '' which is on the Disney Channel Holiday Playlist CD , which was released on October 2 , 2012 .
on  March  5  , 2013 the third Shake It Up soundtrack was  released  , entitled  i  < 3 Dance ;  on   it  , Zendaya has two  गीतों  with  बेला  - `` Contagious Love  ''  and `` This Is My Dance Floor '' - as well  as  one  सोलो  song  ,  `` Beat  of  My  ढोल   .  ''
This  is  a list of airports in Pennsylvania ( a  u.S.  state  )  ,  grouped  by type and sorted by location .
It  contains  all public-use and  सैन्य  airports in the state .
कुछ   private-use  and former  एयरपोर्ट   may  be included where notable , such  as  airports  कि  were  previously   public-use  , those with commercial enplanements recorded by the  faa   or  airports  आबंटित   an  IATA airport code .
iOS  (  previously iPhone  os  ) is a  मोबाईल  operating system  विकसित  and distributed  by  Apple  inc  .  originally  released  in  2007 for the iPhone and iPod  टच  platforms , it has  महरूम   विस्तारित   to  support  अन्य   ठहराना  devices such as the  ipad  and  ठहराना  TV  .
Unlike  microsoft  's Windows  फोन  and Google 's Android ,  ठहराना  does not license  आईओएस   लिये  installation on  non-apple  hardware .
, Apple 's App Store  contained  more than  700,000  iOS applications , which have collectively been downloaded more than 30 billion times .
It had a 21 % share  of  the smartphone  मोबाईल  operating  प्रणाली  units shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012 , behind only  google  's Android .
In June 2012 , it accounted for 65  %  of mobile web  आंकड़ा  consumption ( including use  on  both the iPod Touch and the iPad ) .
at  the half of 2012 , there were 410 million devices activated .
According to the special media  इवेंट  held  by  Apple on September 12 , 2012 , 400 million  डिवाइस  have been  बेची   through  June 2012 .
the  user  इंटरफ़ेस  of iOS is based on the concept  of  direct manipulation  ,  using multi-touch gestures .
इंटरफ़ेस   कंट्रोल  elements consist of  sliders  , switches ,  और  buttons .
Interaction with the  os  includes gestures  ऐसे  as swipe , tap ,  पिंच  , and reverse pinch , all of which have  विशिष्ट  definitions  भीतर  the context of the iOS operating system and its  multi-touch  interface  .
Internal  accelerometers  are  प्रयुक्त  by some applications to  respond  to shaking the device  (  one common result is the undo command ) or rotating it in three dimensions ( one common result is switching from portrait  to  landscape mode  )   .
iOS is  निकला  from OS X , with which it shares  the  Darwin foundation .
iOS is Apple 's mobile version of the OS X operating system used on  ठहराना   कंप्यूटर  .
in  iOS , there  हैं  four  abstraction  layers : the Core  os   परत  , the Core Services layer ,  the   मीडिया  layer  ,  and the  cocoa  Touch layer .
The  वर्तमान   संस्करण  of the operating system  (  iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 GB of the device 's flash memory  लिये   the  system partition , using roughly 800 MB of that  विभाजन  ( varying  by   मॉडल  ) for iOS itself .
iOS  फिलहाल   रनों  on  iphone  , iPad , iPod touch and Apple TV .
The Plymouth Superbird is famous for its  अत्यधिक   ऊँची  rear wing .
1987 Audi Sport QuattroS1  साथ  its large wings  at   pikes  Peak
a  spoiler is  an  automotive aerodynamic device  जिनकी  intended  डिज़ाइन  function is  to  'spoil ' unfavorable  एयर   गति  across a  देह   of  a  गाडी   in  motion , usually  वर्णित  as turbulence or drag  .
विघ्न  on the front  of  a  गाडी  are often called air dams ,  क्युकी  in addition to  directing   एयर  flow they  भी   reduce   the  amount of air flowing underneath the  गाडी   जिससे  generally reduces aerodynamic lift and drag .
Spoilers are often fitted  to  race and high-performance sports cars , although they have  become  common  on  passenger vehicles as well .
Some spoilers are added to cars primarily  लिये  styling purposes and  have  either little  aerodynamic   लाभ  or even make the aerodynamics worse .
Spoilers for cars are often incorrectly confused with , or the term used  interchangeably  with , wings  .
Automotive wings are devices whose intended design is to generate  downforce  as  एयर  passes around  उन्हें  , not simply disrupt existing airflow patterns .
मारियो  , who serves  as   निन्टेंडो  's mascot  ,  is a fictional  अक्षर  created  by  game designer Shigeru  miyamoto  and voiced by Charles Martinet .
This  is  a list of video games where  the  character  मारियो  plays a  भाग   ,  either as the protagonist  ,  antagonist , supporting character  ,  as part of an ensemble cast ,  as  a  कैमियो  ,  or  in a game within a game .
it  does not include  सरल   सन्दर्भ  to the  अक्षर  , such  as  the portraits of Mario found in The Legend of Zelda : A  कड़ी  to the Past .
the   साल   indicated  is the year the game was first released  ,  most commonly in Japan ; games were sometimes  released  years later in other regions of the  संसार  .
The list includes ports , remakes and compilations .
It does n't include any  आभासी  Console re-releases .
``  Man  of  Constant Sorrow ''  (  also  ज्ञात  as `` I Am A Man of Constant  विषाद  ''  )   is  a traditional American folk song first  अंकित  by Dick  burnett  , a partially blind fiddler from Kentucky  .
The song was  originally  recorded by Burnett as `` Farewell  सोंग  '' printed  in  a Richard Burnett songbook , circa 1913 .
An early version was recorded by Emry Arthur in 1928 ( Vocalion  vo  5208  )  .
Public interest in the  सोंग  was renewed after the release of the 2000 film O Brother  ,   जहाँ  Art Thou ?
, as it plays  a  central role in the film 's plot .
The song  थी  also  शामिल  in  the   फिल्मी   's  highly successful  ,  multiple-platinum selling soundtrack  .
Josephson  जंक्शन  array chip developed by the National  ब्यूरो  of Standards as a  मानक  volt
The volt ( symbol  :   v  ) is the  si   निकला  unit for  इलेक्ट्रिक  potential (  वोल्टेज  ) , electric  संभावित  difference ,  और  electromotive force .
the  volt is named in honor of the Italian physicist Alessandro Volta ( 1745–1827  )  , who invented  the  voltaic pile  ,  possibly the first chemical battery .
A  प्लैक  commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps  of  Gavrilo Princip ( image  लिया  in 1987 , before steps were removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
a  plaque commemorating the  स्थान  of the Sarajevo assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
on  28 June 1914 , Archduke Franz  फर्डिनेंड  of Austria , heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne  ,  and his  बीवी   ,  Sophie , Duchess of Hohenberg  ,  were shot dead in Sarajevo , by Gavrilo Princip , one of a  समूह  of six Bosnian  serb   हत्यारे  coordinated by Danilo Ilić .
the  political objective of the assassination was  to  break off  austria-hungary  's south-Slav  प्रांतों  so they could  be  combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia .
The assassins  '   motives   यहूद  consistent with the movement that later became known as  यंग  Bosnia  .
सर्बियाई  military officers stood behind  the  attack .
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military  प्रज्ञा  Dragutin Dimitrijević , his righthand man  प्रमुख  Vojislav Tankosić , and Masterspy Rade Malobabić .
Major Tankosić armed the  हत्यारे  with bombs and pistols and trained  उन्हें  .
the  assassins were given access to the same  clandestine  tunnel  of  safe-houses and agents that Rade Malobabić used for the infiltration of  हथियार  and operatives into Austria-Hungary .
The assassins , the key members of  the  clandestine tunnel ,  और  the key  सर्बियाई  military conspirators who were  स्टिल   जिंदा  were  गिरफ्तार   ,  tried , convicted and punished .
Those who were arrested  in   बोस्निया  were tried in Sarajevo  in   अक्तूबर  1914 .
The other conspirators  यहूद  arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo court on the  french-controlled   salonika  Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three  of  the top  सैन्य  conspirators .
Much of what is known about the  assassinations  comes from these two trials and related records .
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28  जून  is highly controversial because the  आक्रमण   led   to  the  outbreak  of  संसार  War I  एक  month later .
मिशन   सैन  Juan Capistrano was a  स्पेनी  mission in Southern California , located in present-day San Juan Capistrano  .
It was  संस्थापित  on All  संतो  ' Day November 1 , 1776 ,  by  Spanish Catholics  of   the  Franciscan Order .
Named  लिये  Giovanni  da   capistrano  , a  15th  century theologian and ``  योद्धा  priest '' who resided in  the  Abruzzo region of Italy , San  जुआन  Capistrano has the distinction of being home  to  the oldest building in California  स्टिल  in use , a chapel built in 1782 .
Known alternately as  ``  Serra 's  चैपल  ''  और   ``  Father Serra 's  गिरिजाघर  , ''  it  is the only extant structure  जहाँ  it has been  प्रलेखित   कि  the padre Junipero Serra celebrated mass .
One  of  the best known of the  alta   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  missions ( and  एक  of  the   few  missions to have actually been founded twice—others being Mission San Gabriel Arcángel  और  Mission La Purísima Concepción  )  .
The site was originally  consecrated   on  October 30 , 1775  ,  by Father  fermín  Lasuén ,  लकिन  was quickly abandoned due to  अशांति  among the  स्वदेशी  population in San  डिएगो  .
the  success of  the  settlement is evident  in  its historical records  .
Prior to the arrival  of  the missionaries , some 550 natives were scattered throughout the  लोकल  area  .
By 1790 ,  the  number of  परिवर्तित  Christians had  grown  to  700  , and  बस   छह  years later nearly 1,000 ``  neophytes  `` ( recent  converts   )  lived in or around the Mission compound  .
1,649 baptisms were conducted that year alone  ,  out of  the  total 4,639  souls  converted between  1776  and  1847  .
अधिक  than 2,000 former inhabitants  (  mostly Juaneño Indians ) are buried in unmarked  क़ब्रों   in  the Mission 's cemetery  (   campo  santo ) .
The remains of Father ( later  monsignor  ) St.  जॉन  O'Sullivan , who recognized the property 's historic value and working tirelessly to conserve and rebuild its  structures  , are buried at the entrance to the cemetery on the west side of the property , and a statue raised in his  सम्मान  stands at  the  head of the crypt .
The surviving chapel also serves  as   the   फाइनल   resting  place of three padres who passed on  जबकि  serving at the Mission : Fathers José  barona  , Vicente  fustér  , and Vicente  पास्कुआल   oliva   हैं  all entombed beneath the sanctuary floor .
the   criolla  or `` Mission grape , '' was first planted at  सैन  Juan Capistrano in 1779 ; in  1783   ,  the  पहला  wine produced in Alta California emerged from the Mission 's winery  .
The  मिशन  entered a long period of  क्रमिक  decline after secularization in 1833 .
Numerous efforts  यहूद  made over the years to restore the Mission to its former  महिमा  , but none  मिले  with great success  जबतक  the arrival of  पिता  O'Sullivan in 1910 .
Restoration efforts  continue   ,  and  ``  Serra 's Chapel '' is still used for religious services .
About half-a-million  विज़िटर  , including 80,000 school  children  , come  to  the Mission each  साल  .
और  while the ruins of `` The Great Stone  गिरिजाघर   ''  ( which was all but leveled by an 1812 earthquake ) are  a  renowned architectural wonder  ,  the  मिशन  is perhaps best known for the  सालाना  `` Return of the  दात  '' which is traditionally  observed  every March  19  (  संत   जोसेफ  's Day ) .
Mission San Juan Capistrano has served as a  पसंदीदा   विषय   लिये  many notable artists , and has been immortalized  in  literature and on film numerous times , perhaps more than any other mission .
In 1984 , a modern church complex was  constructed  just north and west of the Mission compound and is now known as Mission Basilica San Juan Capistrano  .
Today , the mission compound  serves  as a museum , with  the  Serra Chapel within the compound serving as  a   चैपल   लिये   the   मिशन  parish .
बेहतर   बंद   मुर्दे   is  a 1985  अमरीकी  teen romantic comedy  फिल्मी  starring John Cusack and written and directed by Savage Steve Holland .
It tells the story of high  स्कूल   छात्र  Lane Myer  जो  is suicidal  बाद  his girlfriend  ब्रेक  up with  उसे  .
Mercedes-Benz  superdome   (  originally Louisiana Superdome  और  commonly The Superdome )  is   a  sports and exhibition stadium , located  in   the  Central Business District of New Orleans ,  louisiana  , USA .
योजनाएँ  were drawn up  in  1967 ,  by  the New Orleans modernist architectural firm of Curtis and Davis .
Its steel  फ़्रेम  covers a expanse .
इसके   गुम्बद  is made of  a  Lamella multi-ringed  फ़्रेम   और   रै  a diameter of , making it the  largest  fixed domed structure in the world .
It is home to the NFL  's  New Orleans Saints , the NCAA  's  Division I-A  tulane   ग्रीन  Wave football team ( the largest football stadium in Conference USA )  ,   the  State  फार्म  Bayou Classic , the R+L Carriers New Orleans  कटोरी  ,  the  Allstate Sugar Bowl and , every  चौथी  year ,  the  BCS National Championship  खेल  .
Because of  the  size and location in one of the  प्रमुख  tourist destinations  in  the United States , the Superdome routinely makes the `` short list '' of  उम्मीदवार  being considered for  प्रमुख  sporting events  ,  such as  the  Super Bowl  और  the Final Four .
in  2005 , the Superdome  gained  international  ध्यान  of a different type  जब  it  housed  thousands of people  seeking  shelter from Hurricane  कैटरीना  .
The building suffered extensive damage as a result of the storm  ,   और  was closed  लिये  many  महीने  afterward  .
On  अक्तूबर  3 , 2011  ,   it  was announced  कि  German automaker Mercedes-Benz purchased  नामकरण  rights to  the  stadium .
the  new name took effect on October  23   ,  2011 .
It is the third stadium that has  नामकरण  rights from  mercedes-benz  ( and first  in  the  संयुक्त  States )  ,  after the Mercedes-Benz Arena ,  the  stadium of  bundesliga  club VfB Stuttgart  ,  in Stuttgart ,  जर्मनी  and the Mercedes-Benz Arena in  शंघाई  ,  चीन  .
लॉबी   of   जम्बो  House
Giraffe on the savannah at Jambo House
Disney 's  एनिमल  Kingdom Lodge  is  an  african-themed   डीलक्स   रिज़ॉर्ट  at the Walt Disney World Resort .
It opened on  अप्रैल  16 , 2001  .
The resort is  स्वामित्व  and  संचालित  by Walt Disney  पार्क  and Resorts .
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is located in  the   एनिमल  Kingdom Resort  क्षेत्रफल  , adjacent to Disney 's Animal Kingdom .
It gives guests the  अवसर  to view grazing wildlife outside their rooms and public areas  in  the resort within proximity of the animals , conveying the  अहसास  of being in an African savanna .
The People 's  पार्टी  , also known as the `` Populists '' ,  थी  a short-lived political party in  the   संयुक्त  States established in 1891 during the Populist movement ( United  राज्य  , 19th  सदी  ) .
It was most important in 1892-96 , and then rapidly faded away .
Based among poor , white cotton farmers in the South ( especially North Carolina , Alabama , and Texas ) and  hard-pressed  wheat farmers in the  मैदान  states ( especially Kansas and Nebraska ) , it represented a radical crusading  रूप  of agrarianism and hostility to banks , railroads , and  elites  generally .
it   sometimes  formed coalitions with  मजदूर  unions ,  और  in 1896 the Democrats endorsed their presidential nominee , William Jennings Bryan .
The terms `` populist '' and `` populism ``  हैं  commonly used for anti-elitist appeals in opposition to established interests and mainstream parties .
Linguistic map of Nigeria , Cameroon , and Benin .
Sign in  अंग्रेज़ी  ,  बाहर   the  University of Lagos
वहीँ  are hundreds of languages spoken in Nigeria .
the   प्रमुख  languages are Yoruba  ,  Hausa , Igbo , Edo ,  fulfulde  ,  कनूरी   ,  and Ibibio .
The official language of Nigeria , English , the former colonial language  ,  was chosen to facilitate the cultural and linguistic  एकता  of the country  .
English  ,  however  ,  remains an exclusive  बचाना  of the  देश  's urban elite , and  is  not widely spoken in rural areas , which comprise three quarters of the countries population .
Nigeria 's  भाषाई  diversity is a microcosm  of  Africa as a whole , encompassing  तीन  major African languages  परिवारों  : Afroasiatic , Nilo-Saharan , and Niger–Congo .
सीरियल  also has several as-yet unclassified languages , such as Cen Tuum  ,   जिससे  may represent a  relic  of an even greater  विविधता  prior to the spread of the  वर्तमान  language families .
A series of  कार्यक्रम  led  to  the  आक्रमण  on Pearl Harbor  .
युद्ध  between Japan and the United States had been a  सम्भावना  that  प्रत्येक  nation  's  military forces planned for since the  1920s  , though real tension did not begin  जबतक  the 1931 invasion  of  Manchuria  by   जापानी   .
Over the  अगला  decade , Japan expanded  धीरे  into China , leading to  सब  out war  between  the two in 1937  .
In 1940 Japan invaded  फ्रेंच  Indochina in an effort to embargo all imports into China  ,  including war supplies purchased from  the  U.S .
This  मूव  prompted  the   संयुक्त  States  to  embargo  सब   आयल  exports , leading the Imperial  जापानी  Navy  to   अनुमान   कि  it had less than two years of bunker oil remaining and to support  the  existing plans to seize  आयल  resources in the  डच  East Indies  .
Planning had been  underway   लिये  some  समय  on an attack on the `` Southern Resource Area ''  to  add it to  the   वृहद  East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere that Japan  envisioned  in the  प्रशांत  .
The Philippine islands , at that time  an  American territory , were also a Japanese target .
The Japanese military concluded that an invasion of the Philippines  होता   provoke   an  American military response .
Rather  than  seize and fortify  the  islands , and wait for the inevitable US counterattack , Japan  's  military leaders instead  decided  on the pre-emptive  पर्ल  Harbor attack , which they assumed  होता   negate   the  American forces needed for the liberation and reconquest of the islands .
नियोजन  for the attack had  begun  in very early  1941  , by  admiral  Isoroku Yamamoto .
He  आखिरकार  won  assent  from  the  Naval High Command by  ,  among other things , threatening  to  resign .
the  attack was  स्वीकृत   in  the  गर्मियाँ  at  an  Imperial Conference and again at a second  सम्मेलन   in  the fall .
simultaneously  over the year , pilots  यहूद  trained , and  जहाजों   prepared  for its execution  .
Authority for the  आक्रमण  was  granted  at the  दूसरी  Imperial Conference if a diplomatic result satisfactory to Japan was  नहीं   पहुँचे  .
After final approval by Emperor Hirohito the order to attack was issued at the beginning of December .
A common office stapler
a  common school  stapler
a  stapler is a mechanical  यंत्र   कि   joins   चादरें   of  paper or similar material by driving a thin metal staple through  the  sheets and folding the ends .
staplers  are widely used in government  ,  business , offices , homes and schools .
The word `` stapler '' can actually refer to  a  number of different devices of varying uses  .
In addition to joining paper sheets together , staplers can also be  प्रयुक्त  in a  सर्जिकल  setting to join tissue together with surgical staples to close a surgical wound  (   much  in the  वही   रास्ता  as stitches or sutures ) .
Typically , most  staplers  are  प्रयुक्त  to join multiple  चादरें  of paper .
Paper staplers come in two distinct types : manual and electric .
हस्तचालित  staplers  हैं   सामान्यतः  hand-held ,  हालांकि  models that are used while set on a desk or  अन्य   सतह  are not uncommon .
Electric staplers exist in a variety of different designs and  मॉडल   .
Their primary operating function is to join large numbers of paper sheets together in rapid succession  .
Some electric staplers can  जुड़ें  up to  20  sheets at  a  time  .
Swallowing  ,  known scientifically  as  deglutition  ,  is the process in the human or animal body that  makes  something pass from the  मुँह  ,  to  the pharynx , and into the esophagus , while  shutting   the   epiglottis  .
If this  fails  and the object goes  through   the  trachea ,  तब  choking or  pulmonary   aspiration  can  occur  .
In the human body it is controlled  by  the swallowing reflex .
thaddeus  Stevens ( April 4 , 1792  –   अगस्त  11  ,  1868 ) ,  of   पेन्सिलवेनिया  , was a leader of the Radical  रिपब्लिकन  faction of  the  Republican  पार्टी  and a  fierce  opponent  of  slavery  .
He was one of  the  most influential members in the history of  कॉंग्रेस   .
As  अध्यक्ष  of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee ,  स्टीवंस  , a  witty  ,  व्यंग्यात्मक  speaker and flamboyant party leader  ,  dominated the  हाउस   इससे  1861 until his  मौत  .
He wrote much of the financial  विधान  that  सशुल्क   लिये  the American Civil War .
Stevens and Senator Charles  sumner  were the prime leaders of the Radical Republicans during  the  war and Reconstruction  era  .
Scholarly  दृश्य  of Stevens  have   swung  sharply since his death  as  interpretations of Reconstruction have changed .
इतिहासकारों   of  the Dunning School  (  1890s–1940s )  आयोजित  Stevens responsible  लिये   demanding  harsh treatment of  the  white South and violating American traditions  of  republicanism , depicting Stevens as a villain for his  वकालत  of harsh measures  in  the South such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates .
इस  highly negative characterization held sway into the 1950s .
The rise  of  the  neo-abolitionist  school in  the  1950s led to  a  strong positive appreciation of Stevens ' work on civil rights for  freedmen   .
A recent biographer characterizes him  as  ,  ``  The Great  commoner   ,  savior of free public education in Pennsylvania , national Republican leader in  the  struggles  विरूद्ध  slavery in the  संयुक्त  States and intrepid mainstay of the attempt to secure racial justice for the Freedmen during Reconstruction , the only member of the House of Representatives ever to have  महरूम  known as the 'dictator ' of Congress . ''
Overview of the translation of eukaryotic messenger RNA
Diagram  प्रर्दशित  the translation of mRNA and the synthesis of proteins  by  a ribosome
In molecular biology  और  genetics ,  अनुवाद  is the process  through  which cellular ribosomes manufacture  प्रोटीन  .
It is part of the process of gene expression .
in  translation , messenger RNA ( mRNA  )   उत्पादित  by transcription is decoded by the ribosome to produce  a   विशिष्ट  amino  एसिड  chain  ,  or polypeptide  ,  that  होगा  later fold into an  क्रियाशील   प्रोटीन  .
In bacteria , translation occurs in the cell 's cytoplasm , where the large and  छोटी  subunits  of  the ribosome are located , and bind  to  the  mrna  .
In  eukaryotes  ,  अनुवाद  occurs across the membrane  of  the endoplasmic  reticulum   in   a  process called vectorial  संश्लेषण  .
The ribosome facilitates decoding by  inducing  the  बाइंडिंग   of  tRNAs with complementary anticodon sequences  to  that of the mRNA .
The tRNAs carry specific amino acids that are chained  साथ   into  a polypeptide as the mRNA passes  through  and is  ``  read '' by the ribosome  in  a fashion reminiscent to that of a stock ticker  और  ticker tape .
In many instances , the entire ribosome/mRNA complex binds to  the  outer membrane of  the  rough endoplasmic reticulum and  रिलीज  the nascent protein polypeptide inside for later  vesicle  transport and secretion outside  of  the cell .
Many types of transcribed RNA , such  as   ट्रांसफ़र  RNA , ribosomal RNA ,  और  small nuclear RNA , do  नहीं  undergo  अनुवाद  into  प्रोटीन  .
Translation proceeds in four phases : initiation , elongation , translocation and termination ( all describing the growth of the amino acid chain , or  polypeptide   कि  is the product of translation ) .
Amino acids are brought  to  ribosomes  और  assembled into proteins .
in  activation , the correct amino acid is covalently bonded to the correct transfer RNA ( tRNA ) .
The  अमीनो  acid is joined  by   इसके  carboxyl  समूह  to the  3  ' OH of the  trna  by an ester bond  .
जब  the  trna  has an amino acid linked to it , it  is  termed ``  चार्ज   ''  .
Initiation involves the  छोटी  subunit of  the   राइबोसोम  binding  to  the 5 ' end of  mrna  with the help of initiation factors (  if   )  .
Termination  of  the polypeptide happens when  the  A site of  the  ribosome faces  a  stop  codon  (  uaa   ,  UAG , or UGA ) .
no  tRNA can  recognize  or bind to this codon .
Instead  ,  the stop codon induces the  बाइंडिंग  of a release  फ़ैक्टर  protein  कि   prompts  the disassembly of the entire ribosome/mRNA  जटिल   .
A number of antibiotics act  by  inhibiting translation  ;  these include anisomycin ,  cycloheximide  , chloramphenicol , tetracycline , streptomycin  ,  erythromycin  ,  and puromycin , among  अन्य  .
Prokaryotic ribosomes  have  a different structure from  कि  of eukaryotic ribosomes  ,  and thus antibiotics can specifically target bacterial infections without  कोई   detriment   to  a eukaryotic host  's  cells .
a  multimedia message on a  मोबाईल  phone .
Multimedia Messaging Service ( MMS  )  is a standard way to send  संदेश  that include multimedia content  to  and from mobile phones .
It extends the core  sms  ( Short  संदेश  Service )  काबिलियत  that allowed exchange of  टेक्स्ट  messages only up to 160 characters  in  length .
the  most popular use is to  भेजें  photographs  इससे  camera-equipped  handsets  , although it  is  also popular as  a  method of delivering  न्यूज  and entertainment content including videos , pictures , text pages and ringtones .
The standard is developed by the Open  मोबाईल  Alliance (  ओमो  ) , although during development it was part of the 3GPP and WAP groups .
Smallpox  थी  an infectious disease unique to humans , caused by  either  of two virus variants , Variola  प्रमुख   और  Variola minor .
The disease  is  also known by the Latin names Variola or Variola vera  ,  derived from varius  (  ``  spotted  '' ) or varus ( ``  मुंहासे  '' ) .
The disease was originally known  in   अंग्रेज़ी  as the `` pox '' or  ``   रेड  plague  ''  ; the  पद  ``  smallpox  '' was first used in Britain  in  the 15th century to distinguish variola from the `` great pox  ''  ( syphilis ) .
The last naturally occurring case of smallpox ( Variola minor ) was diagnosed  on   26  October 1977 .
Smallpox localized  in   छोटी  blood vessels  of   the  skin and in the mouth and throat .
In the skin it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular rash and , later ,  उठाया  fluid-filled  फफोले  .
V. major  produces  a more serious  बीमारी  and  रै  an  overall  mortality rate of  30–35  %  .
V. minor causes a milder form  of  disease ( also  ज्ञात  as alastrim , cottonpox  ,   milkpox  , whitepox ,  और  Cuban itch  )  which kills  परिचय  1 % of its victims  .
Long-term complications  of   V.  major infection include characteristic  scars  , commonly  on  the  फेस  , which occur in 65–85 % of survivors .
Blindness resulting from corneal ulceration and scarring , and  limb  deformities due to arthritis  और   osteomyelitis  are less common  जटिलताओं  , seen in about 2–5 %  of  cases .
Smallpox  is   believed  to have emerged in human populations about  10,000  BC .
The earliest physical evidence of it is probably the pustular rash on the mummified body  of  Pharaoh Ramses V  of  Egypt .
the   बीमारी  killed an estimated  400,000  Europeans annually during  the  closing years of the 18th century ( including five reigning  monarchs  ) , and was responsible for  a  third  of  all  दृष्टिहीनता  .
Of  सब  those infected , 20–60 % —and over 80 %  of  infected children—died from  the  disease .
Smallpox was responsible for an estimated 300–500  लाख  deaths during the 20th century .
As recently as 1967 , the World Health  संगठन  ( WHO ) estimated that 15 million people contracted the disease and that two million died in that year .
After vaccination  अभियान  throughout the  19th  and 20th centuries  ,  the  जो   certified  the  eradication  of smallpox in 1979 .
Smallpox is  एक  of two  संक्रामक  diseases to  have  been eradicated , the other being rinderpest , which was declared eradicated in 2011  .
``  i  Want  to  Hold  अपना  Hand  ''  is  a  song by the English rock band the  बीटल्स  .
लिखा  by John Lennon and Paul McCartney , and recorded in October  1963  ,  it  was the first Beatles record to be made using four-track equipment  .
With advance orders exceeding one million  नक़ल  in  the  United Kingdom  ,  `` I Want to  थाम  Your  हाथ  '' would  साधारणतया  have gone straight  to  the top of the British record charts on its  दिन  of release ( 29 November 1963 ) had  it   नहीं  been  अवरोधित  by the group 's  पहला  million seller `` She Loves You `` ,  the  Beatles ' previous UK single , which was  having  a resurgent spell in the top position following  तीव्र  media coverage of the group  .
Taking two weeks  to   dislodge  its predecessor , ``  i  Want to Hold Your Hand ''  ठहरे  at number one  लिये  five  सप्ताह   और  remained in  the  UK top  पचास  for  twenty-one  weeks  in  total  .
It was also the group 's first American number one , entering the  बिलबोर्ड  Hot  100  chart on 18  जनवरी  1964  at  number forty-five and starting the British invasion of the American music industry .
By 1  फ़रवरी  it held the number one  स्पॉट  — for seven weeks  —  before being replaced  by  `` She Loves You '' , a  रिवर्स  scenario of what  था  occurred in  ब्रिटेन  , and remained in the US charts for a  कुल  of fifteen weeks .
`` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' became the Beatles ' best-selling single worldwide .
A  gasser  was a  प्रकार   of  hot rod  originating  on the dragstrips of the  संयुक्त  States in the late 1950s  और   जारी   जबतक  the early 1970s .
Gassers were based on  उत्पादन   मॉडल  from  the   1930s  to mid-1960s , which  have   महरूम  stripped of extraneous weight and jacked  up  using a truck beam axle  to  provide  बेहतर  weight distribution on acceleration ( Beam axles are also lighter than an  स्वतंत्र  front  बर्खास्तगी  ) , though a raised stock front suspension  is   आम   as   खूब  .
Common weight reduction techniques include fiberglass body panels ,  stripped  interiors and plexiglass  खिड़कियाँ  ( sometimes color tinted ) .
Because they were primarily built for racing , these  गाड़ियाँ  typically had the engine swapped to a  larger  or more  शक्तिशाली  one , the existing  भण्डार   इंजन   परिवर्धित  ( often heavily )  or  both .
It was very common to  अनुरूप  a Roots supercharger  और  mechanical fuel injection  ,   ऐसे  as  एक  from Algon , Hilborn ,  or  Crower .
With form  होने  dictated  by   फलन   ,  their appearance is often very top heavy and ungainly , largely due to front ends being raised higher than stock , to assist in the weight  ट्रांसफ़र  during  रैपिड  acceleration ( racing  )  .
Having  उनके  exhaust pipes exit through the front fender well is  a  common characteristic of gassers , as is having  लाशें   चित्रित  in flamboyant metalflakes ,  मोती  , and  कैंडी  finishes  complemented  by lettering in wild fonts  .
The name arose  क्युकी  they competed  in  a gasoline -fueled drag racing class , rather than one using methanol or  nitromethane  .
The  gasser  is the  पूर्ववर्ती   of   the  modern Funny  car   .
Twelve-lead EKG of a 26-year-old male
Electrocardiography (  ईसीजी  or EKG  इससे   )  is a transthoracic  (  across the thorax or chest ) interpretation of the electrical  कार्यकलाप   of   the  heart over a  काल  of time ,  as  detected by electrodes attached to the surface  of  the skin  और  recorded by a  यंत्र  external  to  the  देह  .
The  रिकॉर्डिंग  produced by  इस  noninvasive  कार्यविधि   is  termed an electrocardiogram ( also  ईसीजी  or  ईकेजी  ) .
An  ईसीजी  is used to measure the rate and regularity  of  heartbeats ,  as   खूब  as the size and position  of  the chambers , the presence of any damage to  the  heart , and the effects of drugs or devices used  to   विनियमित  the heart  ,  such  as  a pacemaker .
Most ECGs are  performed  for diagnostic or research purposes on  इंसान  hearts , but may also be performed on animals , usually  लिये  diagnosis of  दिल  abnormalities or research .
Donald John  ट्रम्प  ,  sr.  ( born June 14 , 1946 ) is an American  कारोबार  magnate , television personality and author .
He is the chairman and president of The Trump Organization and the founder of Trump Entertainment  रिसॉर्ट  .
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle , outspoken  manner  , and  भूमिका   on  the NBC reality show The  प्रशिक्षु  have  बना  him  a  well-known celebrity who was No . 14 on the 2012  फोर्ब्स  Celebrity 100 list .
Trump is the son  of  Fred Trump ,  a  wealthy New York  नगर   real-estate  developer .
He worked for his father 's firm , Elizabeth Trump & Son , while attending the Wharton School of the University  of  Pennsylvania  ,  and in 1968 officially joined the  कम्पनी  .
He was given control of the company in 1971  और  renamed it The Trump  संगठन  .
In 2010 , Trump  expressed  an interest in  बनने   a  candidate for  अध्यक्ष  of the United  राज्य  in the 2012 election , though in May 2011 , he announced he  होता  not be a candidate .
In December 2011 , Trump was suggested as a  संभावित  vice presidential selection by Michele Bachmann , if she were to win  the  Republican nomination .
`` A  बदलें   is  Gon na Come  ''  is a  1964  single by R & B singer-songwriter Sam Cooke , written  और  first  अंकित  in 1963 and released under the RCA Victor label shortly after his death in late 1964  .
Though only a  modest  hit for Cooke in comparison with his  पिछला  singles , the song  आए  to exemplify the 1960s '  सिविल  Rights  गति  .
the  song  रै  gained in popularity and critical acclaim in the  दशकों  since  इसके  release , and is # 12 on  रोलिंग   स्टोन  's  500  Greatest  गीतों  of All Time  .
Steam rising  इससे  the Nesjavellir Geothermal Power Station in Iceland  .
Geothermal energy is thermal energy generated  और   भंडारित   in  the  धरती  .
Thermal  उर्जा  is the  उर्जा  that determines  the  temperature of matter .
the   geothermal  energy of the Earth 's crust originates from  the  original formation of the planet ( 20  %  ) and from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ) .
The geothermal  अनुपात  ,  जिससे  is  the   अंतर  in temperature between the core of  the   ग्रह  and  इसके  surface , drives a  निरन्तर  conduction of  थर्मल  energy in the form of heat  इससे  the core to  the  surface .
The adjective geothermal  originates  from the Greek roots γη ( ge  )  , meaning earth , and θερμος (  thermos   )  , meaning hot .
At the core of  the  Earth  ,  thermal energy is created by  रेडियोसक्रिय  decay and temperatures may reach over 5000 °C  (  9,000 °F )  .
Heat conducts  इससे  the core  to  surrounding cooler rock  .
The high temperature and pressure cause some rock to melt , creating  मैग्मा  convection upward since it is  हल्का  than the solid rock  .
The  मैग्मा  heats rock  और   जल   in  the crust , sometimes  up  to 370  °c  ( 700 °F  )  .
From hot springs ,  geothermal  energy has been used  लिये  bathing  चूंकि  Paleolithic times  और  for space heating since ancient Roman times ,  लकिन  it  is   अभी  better known for electricity generation .
Worldwide  ,  about 10,715 megawatts ( MW )  of  geothermal power  is  online in 24  देशों  .
An additional 28  gigawatts  of direct geothermal  हीटिंग  capacity  is  installed for district heating , space heating ,  स्पा  , industrial processes , desalination and agricultural applications .
Geothermal  शक्ति  is  लागत  effective  ,  reliable , sustainable ,  और  environmentally  दोस्ताना   ,   लकिन  has historically been limited to  क्षेत्रों  near tectonic plate boundaries  .
हाल  technological  अग्रिम   have  dramatically expanded the range  और   आकार  of viable resources  ,   विशेषकर  for applications such as  घर  heating , opening a  संभावित  for widespread exploitation  .
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped  गहन  within  the  earth , but these emissions are much lower per energy unit than  those  of fossil fuels .
as   a  result ,  geothermal  power has  the   संभावित   to  help mitigate global warming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels .
The  धरती  's geothermal resources are theoretically  अधिक  than adequate to  सप्लाई   मानवता  's energy needs , but only a  बहुत  small fraction  may  be profitably exploited .
Drilling and  खोजी  for  गहन   संसाधन  is very expensive  .
Forecasts for  the  future of geothermal  शक्ति  depend  on  assumptions about technology  ,   उर्जा   कीमतें  ,  subsidies   ,   और   ब्याज   दरों  .
Pilot programs  जैसे  EWEB 's customer opt  in  Green Power Program show that  ग्राहक  would be  willing  to pay  a  little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal  .
But as a result of  सरकारी  assisted research and industry experience  ,  the cost of generating geothermal power  रै  decreased by 25 % over  the  past  दो  decades .
In 2001 , geothermal energy cost between two and ten cents per kwh  .
स्वामित्व   of  property may be  निजी   ,  collective  ,  or common and  the  property may  be   वस्तुएँ  ,  land/real   एस्टेट  , or  बौद्धिक  property .
Determining  स्वामित्व  in law involves  determining  who  रै  certain rights and duties over  the  property .
These rights and duties , sometimes called a 'bundle of rights ' , can  be  separated and held by  अलग  parties .
the  question of ownership  पहुँच   वापस  to the ancient philosophers  ,  Plato and Aristotle , who held different opinions  on  the subject .
प्लेटो   (  428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) thought private  प्रॉपर्टी  created divisive inequalities , while Aristotle ( 384  bc  – 322  bc   )  thought private property  सक्रिय  people to receive the full  लाभ  of their labor  .
Private property  can  circumvent what is now referred to as the “ tragedy  of  the commons ” problem , where people  tend  to degrade common property more than they do private property .
दिए  a short-sighted owner , however , a private  प्रॉपर्टी   प्रणाली  can make these  tragedies  worse—for example , a  निजी  owner of a piece of oil-rich  प्रॉपर्टी  , depending on his worldview , might be more  दिलचस्पी  in short-term financial gain than incremental use with an  नजर  toward other  's  concerns ( e.g. ,  those  of future generations ,  the  disenfranchised , etc . ) .
While Aristotle justified  the   अस्तित्व  of private ownership  ,  he  बाएँ  open questions of ( 1 ) how to allocate property between  कया  is private and common and ( 2 ) how to allocate the private property within society .
Over the millennia , and across cultures what can be property and how it is regarded culturally have varied widely .
Ownership  is  the basis for  अनेक  other concepts that form the foundations of ancient and modern societies such as  धन  , trade , debt , bankruptcy ,  the   criminality  of theft  ,  and private vs. public property .
Ownership is the key  भवन  block in the development  of   the  capitalist socio-economic  प्रणाली  .
Adam  स्मिथ  stated  कि  one of the sacred laws of justice was  to  guard a person 's  प्रॉपर्टी  and possessions  .
The process and  यांत्रिकी  of ownership are fairly complex : one can gain ,  ट्रांसफ़र  and lose ownership  of  property in  a  number of ways .
To acquire property one can purchase  it  with money , trade it for other property , receive it as a gift ,  चोरी   it  , find  it  , make , it  or  homestead  it  .
One can transfer or lose ownership of property by selling it for  धन  , exchanging it for other property ,  giving   it  as a gift  ,   होने  robbed of  it  , it ,  or  having it  stripped  from one 's  स्वामित्व   through  legal means such as  eviction  , foreclosure , seizure , or taking  .
Ownership is self-propagating  in  that the owner of any property will also own the  आर्थिक  benefits of that  प्रॉपर्टी   .
`` What 's My Name ? '' is a song recorded by Barbadian recording artist Rihanna ,  लिये  her fifth  स्टुडियो  album Loud ( 2010  )  .
Featuring guest vocals from Canadian rapper Drake , the song  थी  released  as  the  दूसरी   सिंगल  from Loud on October 29 , 2010 through Def Jam Recordings  .
The R & B song  थी  produced by the Norwegian production duo StarGate , and was written by the duo along with Ester  डीन  , Traci Hale , and Drake .
Lyrically , it incorporates themes of sexual intercourse  और  romance .
Music  आलोचकों  gave the  सोंग  positive reviews ,  citing   it  some  of  Rihanna 's best vocal work to date ;  वहीँ  was a praise regarding  इसके  romantic nature , as well as its sexual tones .
`` What 's My Name ? ''  थी  a commercial success and  अव्वल   the  US Billboard Hot 100 chart ,  giving  Rihanna her third number-one single in 2010 , as  खूब  as her  आठवीं  overall on the chart .
The song also topped the charts  in   हंगेरियाई   और  the United  किंगडम  and reached the top five in Canada , Ireland , New Zealand , Norway and Slovakia .
The song received a nomination  at  the 54th Grammy Awards  लिये  Best Rap/Sung Collaboration .
An accompanying music video , directed by Philip Andelman , portrays  a   रोमांटिक  encounter  between  Rihanna and Drake in a  किराना  store along with romantic scenes between the  जोड़ी  and Rihanna  चलना  through Manhattan 's  निम्नतर  East Side .
``  कया  's My  नाम  ?  ''   थी   प्रचारित  with live  प्रदर्शन   आरपार  both  पहलू  of  the  Atlantic , including  शनिवार  Night Live in  अमेरिका  and the series  सात  finale  of  The X Factor  in   the   संयुक्त  Kingdom  .
The latter performance  resulted  in an investigation  इससे  the country 's  मीडिया  regulator , Ofcom ,  लिये   the  raunchy nature  of  Rihanna 's  पहनावा   .
a  mathematical constant is a special number , usually a real number , that is `` significantly interesting  in  some way ''  .
Constants arise  in  many different areas  of  mathematics  ,  with constants such  as  e ( mathematical constant )  |  and pi| occurring  in   ऐसे  diverse contexts as geometry , number  सिद्धान्त   और  calculus  .
कया  it means for a  निरंतर  to arise `` naturally '' , and what makes a constant `` interesting '' , is ultimately a matter of taste  ,  and some mathematical constants are notable more for  ऐतिहासिक   कारण  than for  उनके  intrinsic mathematical interest .
the   अधिक   लोकप्रिय  constants have been studied throughout the  आयु   और  computed to many decimal places .
All mathematical constants are definable  संख्याएँ   और   प्रायः  are also computable numbers ( Chaitin 's constant  होने  a significant exception  )   .
Elections to the  संयुक्त  States Senate were held on November 2 , 2010 , for 37 of the  संयुक्त  States Senate  's  100 seats .
( A  खास  election on January 19 , 2010 in  मैसाचुसेट्स  was held earlier in  the  year . )
thirty-four  of the seats  यहूद   लिये  six-year terms to the Senate 's `` class three  ''  , and three were  खास  elections for shorter terms  .
Of the 37 elections , 19 featured  लाज़िम  Democrats ( 7 of whom retired or were  पराजित  in the primary  )  and 18  प्रदर्शित   लाज़िम  Republicans (  आठ  of  जिसको  retired  or  were defeated  in  the primary ) .
After the previous elections ( in 2008 )  ,   the  United States Senate was composed  of  58 Democrats , 40 Republicans , and  2   independents  who caucus with the Democrats .
Republicans won four seats  आयोजित  by retiring Democrats  और   republicans  defeated two incumbent Democrats .
इस  was the largest number of Republicans gains since the 1994  चुनावों   और  also the  पहला  time since that election that Republicans successfully defended all of their own  सीटे  .
This  थी  the fourth consecutive election of `` class 3 '' senators where Democrats  have   विफल   to  gain  सीटे  and the third  लगातार  mid-term election held in a president 's first term where Republicans have picked-up  सीटे  .
Despite these Republican  विन्स  , however ,  the   डेमोक्रेट  retained a majority of the Senate with 51  सीटे  plus 2 independents who caucus with them , compared to the 47 Republicans  .
A solstice is an  खगोलीय  event that occurs twice each year as the Sun reaches its highest or lowest  excursion  relative to the  celestial  equator on the celestial sphere  .
As a result , on the day of the solstice , the  सूर्य  appears to have reached its highest or lowest annual altitude  in  the sky above the horizon at local solar noon  .
The word  संक्रांति  is derived from  the  Latin sol (  सूर्य  ) and sistere (  to  stand  स्टिल  ) , because at  the  solstices , the Sun stands still in declination ;  कि  is  ,   the  seasonal  गति  of  the  Sun  's  path ( as seen from  धरती   )  comes  to  a  रोकें  before  reversing  direction .
the  solstices , together with the equinoxes , are connected with the  सीज़न   .
In many cultures the solstices mark either the beginning or the midpoint of  शीत  and summer .
The term solstice  can  also  be  used in a  broader   भाव  , as the  तिथि  ( day ) when this  occurs  .
The  दिन  of the solstice is  either   the   longest  day of the year ( in summer ) or the shortest day  of  the year ( in winter ) for  कोई  place outside of  the  tropics .
जेरी   ली  Lewis ( born September 29 , 1935 ) is an American rock and roll and country music singer-songwriter  और  pianist .
He is known by  the  nickname `` The  कातिल  '' and  is  often  viewed  as “rock & roll 's first great wild man” .
an  early pioneer of rock  और  roll music , in 1956 Lewis made his first recordings  at  Sun Records .
``  Crazy Arms `` sold 300,000 copies in the  दक्षिण  , but it  थी  his 1957 hit `` Whole Lotta Shakin ' Going On ``  कि   शॉट  Lewis to  कीर्ति  worldwide .
Lewis followed this in  कि   वही   साल   जब  he recorded songs such  as   ``   ग्रेट  Balls of Fire `` , `` Breathless  ``   और   ``   ऊँची  School Confidential `` .
Lewis sold more records than Elvis  प्रेस्ली  at this time .
However , Lewis '  चट्टान  'n  '  roll career faltered in the wake of his marriage to his young cousin  .
He had little  कामयाबी  in the  चार्ट  following the scandal  और   उसके  popularity quickly faded .
His live performance  शुल्क  plummeted from $ 10,000 per  रात्रि  to  $  250 .
in  the meantime he was determined to gain back some of his popularity .
During the  जल्दी  60’s he  किया  n't have much  चार्ट  success with few exceptions such as `` What 'd I  कह  `` .
His live performances  at  this  समय  were increasingly  जंगली  and  ऊर्जावान  .
His album  सजीव  at the Star Club ,  हैम्बर्ग  from  1964  is often regarded by many music journalists and fans as one of the wildest and greatest rock and roll concert albums ever .
After recording songs such as `` I 'm on Fire '' for several years  साथ  little  कामयाबी  ,  in  1968 Lewis made a transition into country music and had  हिट्स  with  गीतों  such as `` Another  प्लेस  , Another  समय   ''  .
This  reignited  his career and  throughout  the late  '60s  and '70s he regularly topped the country-western charts  .
His # 1 country hits included `` To Make Love Sweeter For You  ``  , `` There  जरूर  Be More to Love Than This `` , ``  होता  You Take Another Chance on Me ``  और  `` Me  और  Bobby  mcgee  `` .
Lewis 's successes continued throughout the decade and  he  embraced his rock 'n  '  roll past with  गीतों   ऐसे  as  a   कवर   of  the Big Bopper  's  `` Chantilly Lace  ``  and `` Rockin ' My Life Away  ``  .
In  the  21st century Lewis continues  to   दौरे  to audiences  around  the  संसार  and still releases new albums  .
एक  such album , titled Last Man Standing ,  is  his  बेहतरीन   selling  to date  at  over a million  नक़ल  sold worldwide  .
This was followed by  औसत  Old Man which has received some of the best sales of Lewis’s career  .
Lewis has had  a  dozen gold records in both rock and country , won several Grammy awards ,  सहित  a Lifetime Achievement Award .
लुईस   थी   inducted   into  the Rock  और   फेंकें   हॉल  of Fame in  1986   ,  and his pioneering contribution to  the   विधा  has  महरूम  recognized by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame .
In 1989 , his  जीवन   थी  chronicled in the movie  ग्रेट  Balls of Fire , starring Dennis Quaid  .
In 2003 , Rolling Stone  पत्रिका  listed his box set All Killer  ,  No Filler : The Anthology number 242 on their list of `` 500 greatest  एल्बम  of all time `` .
in  2004 , they ranked him number 24 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of  सब  Time .
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun Records '  लाख  Dollar Quartet and the Class of '55 album  ,   जिससे  also included Johnny Cash ,  कार्ल   perkins  , Roy Orbison and Elvis Presley .
Henry  लुई  Stephens , untitled watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man reading a newspaper  साथ  headline `` Presidential Proclamation / Slavery '' .
the  Emancipation Proclamation was an  अनुक्रम  issued to  सब  segments  of   the  Executive branch ( including the Army and Navy ) of the United States  by   अध्यक्ष  Abraham Lincoln on January 1 , 1863  ,  during the American Civil  युद्ध  .
It was based  on  the president 's  संवैधानिक   प्राधिकार  as commander in chief  of  the armed  शक्तियां  ; it was not a law passed by Congress  .
It proclaimed all those enslaved in  confederate   territory  to  be  forever free , and  ordered  the  फौज  ( and all  खण्ड  of the Executive branch ) to treat as  फ़्री  all those enslaved  in  ten states that were still in rebellion , thus  applying  to 3.1 million of  the  4 million slaves  in  the U.S .
The  उदघोषणा  could not be enforced in areas still under  विद्रोह  , but  as  the army took control of Confederate regions ,  the  slaves in those  regions  were emancipated rather than returned to their  मास्टर्स  .
From 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in  regions  where rebellion had already been subdued were  तत्काल  emancipated , and over 3 million more were  emancipated   as  the Union army advanced  .
The Proclamation did not apply to  the  five slave  राज्य  that were not  in  rebellion ,  nor   to  most regions already controlled by  the  Union  फौज  ; emancipation there would come after  पृथक   राज्य  actions and/or the December 1865  अनुसमर्थन  of the Thirteenth Amendment , which made  गुलामी   illegal  everywhere in  the  U.S .
The Proclamation did not compensate the owners  ,   किया  not itself outlaw  गुलामी  , and did not make the  ex-slaves   (  called freedmen ) citizens .
It  बना   the  eradication  of  slavery an  सुस्पष्ट  war goal , in addition  to  the  लक्ष्य  of reuniting the Union .
On September 22 , 1862 ,  lincoln  had issued  a  preliminary proclamation that he would order the emancipation of all slaves in any state of the Confederate States  of  America that did not return to Union control by January 1  ,  1863 .
None returned , and the order  ,  signed  और  issued January  1   ,   1863  , took effect  मगर  in locations where the Union  था  already mostly regained control  .
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners  जो   envisioned  a race war , angered some Northern Democrats  ,  energized anti-slavery forces , and  weakened  forces in Europe  कि  wanted to intervene to help the Confederacy .
It also  lifted   the  spirits of African Americans  दोनो  in the  दक्षिणी  and Northern States ,  और  led  to  many slaves escaping their masters and running  पीछे   संघ  lines  in  order to have their  emancipation  enforced .
Sucker Punch  is  a  2011  American fantasy action film  निर्देशित  by Zack Snyder  और  co-written by  उसे  and Steve Shibuya .
It is Snyder 's  पहला   फिल्मी   आधारित  on an original script .
The film stars Emily Browning , Abbie Cornish ,  जेना   malone  ,  वैनेसा  Hudgens , Jamie Chung , and Carla Gugino .
The storyline follows the fantasies of a young  स्त्री  who is committed to a mental institution ,  as   वो  makes a plan to escape the hospital before suffering a lobotomy .
The film  थी  released in both  conventional  and  imax  theatres in the United States at  मध्यरात्रि  on March  25  ,  2011  .
It received generally negative reviews from critics , but was a moderate  बक्सा  office success .
सामने  and  वापस  of Canon  powershot  A95 , a typical  pocket-size  digital camera
haselblad   503cw  with Ixpress V96C digital back , an  उदाहरण  of  a  professional digital camera system
A digital  कैमरा   (  or digicam )  is  a camera that takes video or still photographs  by   रिकॉर्डिंग  images on  an  electronic image sensor .
Most  कैमरे  sold today are digital , and digital cameras are  incorporated  into many devices  ranging  from PDAs and mobile phones ( called  कैमरा  phones ) to vehicles .
Digital and film cameras share an optical system  ,  typically using a lens with a variable diaphragm to focus light onto an image pickup device .
The diaphragm and shutter admit the correct amount  of  light to the  imager  , just as with film but the image pickup device is electronic  बल्कि  than chemical .
however  ,  नापसंद  film cameras  ,  digital  कैमरे  can display images on a screen immediately after being recorded , and store and delete images from memory .
अनेक  digital  कैमरे  can  भी   रिकार्ड   चलती  video with sound  .
Some digital  कैमरे  can crop and stitch pictures and perform other  elementary   चित्र  editing .
The inside and  सामने  of a Dell PowerEdge web server , a computer designed  लिये  rack mounting
अनेक  web servers  may  be used for  a  high  ट्रैफ़िक  website ,  यहाँ  four  सूर्य  Fire X4200 servers are installed  साथ
Web server can refer to either the  हार्डवेयर   (  the  कंप्यूटर  )  or  the software  (  the computer application ) that  helps   to   उद्धार  web content that can be accessed through the  अंतरजाल   .
The  सबसे  common use of web servers is  to  host websites , but there  हैं  other  उपयोग  such as  गेमिंग  ,  आंकड़ा  storage or running enterprise applications .
The American  रेड  Cross ( ARC  )  ,  भी  known as  the  American National Red Cross , is a humanitarian organization  कि  provides  आपात  assistance ,  विपत्ति  relief and education inside the United States .
it   is  the  designated  U.S.  संबद्ध  of the International Federation of Red Cross and  रेड  Crescent Societies  .
आज  , in addition to domestic disaster relief ,  the  American Red Cross offers services in five other areas : community services that help the needy ; communications  सेवाएं  and comfort for  सैन्य  members and their family members ; the  संग्रहण  , processing and distribution of  रक्त  and blood products  ;  educational programs  on  preparedness , health , and safety ; and international  राहत   और  development programs .
Issued a corporate  चार्टर   by  the  संयुक्त  States Congress under Title  36  of the United  राज्य  Code ,  खण्ड  3001 , the American National Red Cross  is  governed by volunteers and supported  by   जातियाँ   दान  ,  आय  from  स्वास्थ्य  and safety training and products , and  आय  from  रक्त  products .
The  अमरीकी   रेड  Cross is headquartered in Washington , D.C .
the  Chairman of the Board of Governors , serving her second  three-year  term ,  is  Bonnie  mcelveen-hunter  .
The current President  और  Chief  कार्यपालिका  Officer  is  Gail J. McGovern  .
A  मुर्गा  in Kosovo
A rooster  ,   प्रर्दशित  wattles  ,  earlobes  और  comb
A rooster crowing ( with audio )
right
A rooster ( also  पुकारा  a cockerel  or  cock ) is a male gallinaceous bird .
it  usually refers to a male chicken ( Gallus  gallus   )   .
नादान  male chickens less  than  one year old are called cockerels .
The  पद   ``  rooster '' originates in the United States , and the term  is  widely used throughout  उत्तर  America , as  खूब  as Australia and New Zealand .
In the United Kingdom and Ireland the older term `` cockerel ''  is   अधिक  commonly used .
``  Cock  ''  is in  सामान्य  use as the name  लिये  a male of other species of bird , for example `` Cock sparrow '' .
`` Roosting '' is the action of perching  aloft  to sleep  at  night , and is done by both sexes .
The rooster is polygamous  ,  but  can  not guard several nests of  अंडे  at once .
He guards  the   सामान्य  area where his hens  हैं   nesting  , and will attack  अन्य  roosters  कि  enter his territory .
During the daytime ,  he  usually sits on a high perch  ,  usually  3–5  feet off the ground  to  serve as a  lookout   लिये  his flock .
He will sound a distinctive alarm  कॉल  if predators are nearby  .
the   पोकीमॉन  Trading Card  खेल  ( Pokémon TCG  )   is  a collectible card game based on the Pokémon video game series , first published in October 1996 by  मीडिया  Factory  in   जापानी  .
in  the US , it was initially published by Wizards of the Coast , the company that produces , in December  1998  .
Nintendo  took  over  प्रकाशन  in June  2003  .
It  is  one of Nintendo 's  पिछला   बाकी  strong links to its heritage  as  a playing card company .
Land Rover is a British car  निर्माता  with its headquarters in Gaydon , Warwickshire , United Kingdom  जिससे  specialises in four-wheel-drive vehicles .
It  is  part of the Jaguar Land Rover group , a  subsidiary  of Tata Motors of India .
It is the second  oldest  four-wheel-drive car brand in the world ( after Jeep ) .
The  जमीन  Rover name was originally used by the Rover Company for  एक  specific vehicle model , named simply the Land  रोवर  , launched by Rover  in   1948  .
Over the  following  years it developed into a  marque  encompassing  a  range of four-wheel-drive  मॉडल  , including the Defender  ,  Discovery , Freelander , Range Rover , Range Rover Sport and Range Rover  evoque  .
Land Rovers  हैं  currently assembled in the company 's Halewood  और   solihull  plants , with research  और   विकास  taking place at JLR  's  Gaydon and  whitley  engineering centres .
Land  रोवर   बेची  194,000 vehicles worldwide in  2009   .
Although the brand originates  इससे  the original 1948 model , Land Rover  as  a company has only  existed   चूंकि  1978  .
Prior to this , it  थी  a product line of the Rover Company  जिससे  was subsequently absorbed into the Rover-Triumph division of the British  leyland  Motor Corporation ( BL ) following Leyland Motor Corporation  ’s  takeover of  रोवर   in  1967 .
the   जारी   वाणिज्यिक  success of the original  जमीन  Rover series models , and latterly the Range Rover in the 1970s in the midst of BL’s well documented business  परेशानियों  prompted the establishment of  a  separate  जमीन   रोवर  company but still  अंतर्गत  the BL umbrella , remaining part of the subsequent  रोवर  Group  in  1988  ,   अंतर्गत  the ownership of British Aerospace after the remains of  अंग्रेजों  Leyland were  टूटा  up and privatised .
In 1994 Rover  समूह  plc was acquired by BMW .
In  2000  , Rover Group was broken-up  by  BMW and Land Rover  थी  sold to  घाट  Motor Company ,  बनने   भाग   of  its Premier Automotive Group  .
In 2006 Ford  खरीदा  the Rover brand from BMW for  around  £6 million .
This reunited  the  Rover and Land Rover  ब्रांड्स  for the first time  चूंकि  2000 when  the  Rover group was  टूटा  up  by   bmw  .
In June 2008 , Ford sold both  जमीन  Rover and Jaguar Cars  to  Tata Motors .
This sale also included the dormant Rover brand
The cover of the  पहला  DVD compilation released by Aniplex of The New Captain Shūsuke Amagai  चाप
The ninth season of the Bleach anime series is named .
the  series is based on Tite  kubo   's  manga with same name .
The episodes  हैं  directed by  noriyuki  Abe and produced  by  TV  टोकियो  , Dentsu , and  स्टुडियो  Pierrot  .
The episodes  '   प्लाट   focuses  on the introduction of  a  new Soul Reaper captain ,  shūsuke  Amagai , and the mystery surrounding the Kasumiōji  गोत्र  , one of the  परिवारों  that  constitute  the nobility of Soul  समाज  .
The season began airing on April  23  , 2008 in Japan on TV Tokyo and  ended  on October 7 , 2008 .
the  English  अनुकूलन   of  the Bleach anime  is  licensed by Viz  मीडिया  , and this  चाप  began airing on August  28   ,  2010 on Cartoon Network 's  वयस्क  Swim ,  और   समाप्त  on  जनवरी  29 , 2011 .
Five DVD compilations , each containing  चार  episodes of the season , have  महरूम  released  by  Aniplex ;  the  first DVD compilation  थी   released  on November 26 , 2008 and  the  fifth  on  March  25  , 2009 .
A DVD  बक्सा  will  be  published by Viz Media  on   दिसम्बर  13 , 2011 .
The  एपीसोड  use three pieces  of   थीम   म्यूज़िक  :  एक  opening theme and  दो  closing themes .
the   खोलने  theme is `` Chu-Bura `` by Kelun .
The first closing theme  is  `` Orange '' by Lil'B  ,  used for episodes 168  to  179 , and the second closing theme is `` Gallop '' by  pe'zmoku  , used  लिये  the remainder of the episodes .
The  विनियमन  of prostitution in the United States is  नहीं  among the  enumerated  powers of the federal government  ;  Under the  दसवाँ  Amendment to the United States Constitution , it is therefore  exclusively  the domain  of  the states to permit  ,  prohibit , or otherwise regulate commercial sex  ,   मगर  insofar as Congress may regulate it as part  of  interstate commerce with laws like the  मन  Act .
in  most states  ,  prostitution is  माना  a misdemeanor in the category  of  public order  अपराधों  , a crime that disrupts the order of a community  .
It was at  एक  time considered to be a vagrancy crime .
Currently  ,  Nevada is the only state to allow  वेश्यालय  prostitution , the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes  .
तभी  8 counties currently contain  क्रियाशील   brothels  .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains  the  Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  ) , Washoe County ( which contains  रेनो   )  , Carson City , Douglas County , and Lincoln County  .
The other counties theoretically allow brothel prostitution , but some of these counties  फिलहाल  have  no  active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering  ,  '' and living off of the  proceeds  of a prostitute remain illegal  अंतर्गत  Nevada law , as  elsewhere   in  the country .
As with  अन्य  countries , prostitution in the United  राज्य  can be  विभाजित  into three broad categories :  गली  prostitution  ,  brothel prostitution , and escort prostitution .
The East Coast of the United States , also known  as  the Eastern Seaboard  or  the Atlantic Seaboard and  commonly  shortened to East Coast , refers  to  the  easternmost  coast of the United States along  the  Atlantic Ocean .
The  राज्य  which have shoreline  on  the East Coast are , from north  to  south  ,   the  U.S. states of Maine ,  नई  Hampshire , Massachusetts , Rhode Island , Connecticut , New York , New Jersey  ,   डेलावेयर  , Maryland , Virginia ,  उत्तर  Carolina , South Carolina , Georgia , and Florida .
Richard Milhous Nixon  (  January 9 , 1913 – April 22 , 1994 ) was the  37th  President of the  संयुक्त  States ,  सेवारत   इससे  1969 to  1974  , when he became the only  अध्यक्ष  to resign the office .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S.  प्रतिनिधि   और  senator from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from  1953  to 1961 .
Nixon  थी  born in  yorba  Linda , California .
He  ग्रैजुएट  from Whittier College in 1934 and  ड्यूक  University School of Law in 1937 ,  returning  to California to practice  विधि  .
He and his wife  ,  Pat Nixon , moved to Washington to work for the federal  सरकारी  in 1942 .
He subsequently  परोसा  in  the  United States Navy during World War II .
निक्सन  was elected in California to the House of  प्रतिनिधि   in  1946 and to  the  Senate  in  1950 .
उसके  pursuit of the Alger Hiss case  स्थापित   उसके  reputation as a leading  anti-communist  , and elevated him to national prominence .
he  was the running mate  of   ड्वाइट  D. Eisenhower , the Republican Party presidential  nominee  in the 1952  चुनाव  .
निक्सन  served for eight years as vice president .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in  1960  , narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy , and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he ran again for the presidency and  थी  elected .
Although Nixon initially  escalated  America 's involvement  in   the  Vietnam War , he subsequently  ended  U.S. involvement  in   1973  .
Nixon  's  visit to the People 's Republic of  चीन  in 1972 opened diplomatic  संबंध  between the two nations  ,   और  he  initiated   détente   और  the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with  the  Soviet Union  the  same year .
Domestically , his administration  generally   embraced   नीतियों  that transferred  शक्ति  from  वॉशिंगटन  to the states .
Among  अन्य  things  ,  he  शुभारम्भ  initiatives to fight  कर्कट  and illegal  दवाएँ  , imposed  मजदूरी  and  दाम  controls , enforced desegregation  of   कुछ  Southern schools , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning  साथ  Apollo 11 , he scaled back manned space  खोजी  .
He was re-elected by a  भूस्खलन  in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw  an   अरब  oil embargo , the  इस्तीफा  of his  वाइस  president  ,   spiro  Agnew , and a continuing series of revelations  परिचय  the Watergate  कांड  and other misconduct by members of the  प्रशासन   .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much  of  his political support , and  on  August 9 , 1974 , he  resigned  in the face  of  almost certain  महाभियोग  and removal from  दफ्तर   .
After  उसके   इस्तीफा  , he controversially received  a  pardon issued  by   उसके  successor  ,  Gerald Ford .
In retirement ,  निक्सन   's   कार्य  as an elder statesman , authoring several books and undertaking many foreign trips , helped to  rehabilitate  his public image .
he   suffered  a debilitating stroke on April 18 ,  1994  ,  और   died  four  दिनों   बाद  at the age of 81 .
sertraline   hydrochloride  ( trade names Zoloft ,  lustral  )  is  an  antidepressant  of  the  selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class  .
It was introduced to the market by Pfizer  in  1991  .
Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult  outpatients  as well as obsessive–compulsive , panic , and social anxiety disorders in  दोनो  adults and children .
In 2011 , it  थी  the second-most prescribed antidepressant on  the  U.S. retail  मार्केट  , with 37,208,000 prescriptions .
The efficacy of sertraline for depression  is   समान  to  कि  of older tricyclic  antidepressants  , but its side effects are much less pronounced  .
Differences with newer  antidepressants  are  subtler  and also mostly confined to side effects .
Evidence  suggests  that sertraline may work  बेहतर   than  fluoxetine ( Prozac  )  for  कुछ  subtypes of depression .
उपचार  of panic  विकार  with  sertraline   परिणाम  in  a  significant decrease of the  क्रमांक  of panic attacks and in improved quality of life .
लिये   obsessive-compulsive  disorder , sertraline  is  not as effective  as  cognitive behavioral therapy ; the  बेहतरीन  results have  महरूम  achieved by combining these two  उपचार  .
Although approved for  सोशल  phobia and posttraumatic  तनाव   विकार  ,  sertraline  leads to only modest improvement in these conditions  .
Sertraline  भी  alleviates the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric disorder and can be used  in  sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently for  इसके  treatment .
Sertraline shares the common side effects and contraindications of  अन्य   ssris  ,  साथ  high rates of nausea , diarrhea , insomnia , and sexual  पक्ष  effects  ;  however , it does  नहीं  cause  वज़न   लाभ  ,  और   इसके  effects on both  संज्ञान  and vigilance are relatively mild .
In pregnant women taking sertraline , the  ड्रग   थी  present in significant  एकाग्रता  in  fetal  blood  ,  and was also associated with a higher rate of various birth  दोषों   .
Similarly to other antidepressants , the use of sertraline for depression may be associated  साथ   a   उच्चतर  rate of suicidality  .
the  Five Heartbeats is a 1991 musical  नाटक  film directed by Robert Townsend , who co-wrote the script with Keenan Ivory  wayans  .
वितरित  by 20th Century Fox ,  the  film 's main cast includes Townsend  ,  Michael Wright , Leon  रॉबिन्सन  , Harry J. Lennix ,  tico  Wells  ,  Harold Nicholas of the Nicholas Brothers ,  और  Diahann Carroll .
The plot of the film ( which is loosely based  on  the  जीवनदान  of  अनेक   कलाकारों   :  The Dells  ,  The Temptations , Four Tops ,  विल्सन  Pickett  ,   जेम्स  Brown  ,  Frankie Lymon , Sam Cooke  और  others ) follows the  तीन  decade career of the R  &  B vocal  समूह  The Five Heartbeats  .
the  film depicts the rise and fall  of  a Motown inspired soul  अधिनियम  through the eyes  of  the film 's main protagonist , Donald ``  बतख  '' Matthews ( portrayed by Townsend ) ,  जो   serves  as a narrator  throughout  the  फिल्मी  .
However ,  a  majority of the cinema  is  presented in a consecutive  समय  line  as   opposed  to traditional  फ्लैश   backs   .
The film includes a significant amount  of  original music conceived by various artists for the film 's  साउंडट्रैक  , including singles such as `` A Heart Is a House  लिये  Love ``  ,  `` We Have n't Finished Yet '' , and `` Nothing  लकिन  Love ''  .
The film was released to most North American audiences March 29 , 1991 however it  थी   नहीं  made available to audiences in  अन्य   महाद्वीपों   जबतक  2002 when a DVD was released prior to another DVD release in 2006 for the  फिल्मी  's 15th anniversary .
The  फिल्म  received  मिश्रित  reviews from critics  .
Secretariat ( March 30 , 1970  –   अक्तूबर  4  ,  1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S .  ट्रिपल   क्राउन   चैंपियन   in   25   सालो  .
he  set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby  (  1:59.4 ) , the Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ) , and the  belmont   stakes  ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today .
He is considered to be  एक  of the greatest Thoroughbreds of  सब  time .
In 1999 , ESPN ranked Secretariat the  35th  best  खिलाड़ी   of  the 20th  सदी  , the highest ranking racehorse on  the  list URL_http .
He ranked second  पीछे  Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's List of the Top 100  u.S.  Racehorses of the 20th Century .
Secretariat was sired  by   बिंदास   शासक  out of Somethingroyal , by Princequillo .
He  थी   foaled  at The Meadow in Caroline County , Virginia .
Like his  प्रसिद्ध  predecessor Man o ' War  ,   सचिवालय  was a large chestnut colt and was given the  वही  nickname , ``  बिग  Red  .   ''
Secretariat 's grandsire ,  nasrullah  , is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew .
Owned by Penny  chenery  , he was  प्रशिक्षित  by Lucien  laurin   और   मुख्यतः  ridden  by  Canadian jockey Ron  turcotte  , along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races )  ,  and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race )  .
he   raced   in   chenery  's Meadow Stable 's blue  और  white  checkered  colors and his  दूल्हे  was Eddie Sweat .
Secretariat stood approximately tall , and weighed , with  a  75-inch girth , in his racing prime  .
A typical 12  v  , 40 Ah Lead-acid  car   बैटरी
an   ऑटोमोटिव   बैटरी  is a  प्रकार  of rechargeable  बैटरी  that supplies electric energy to an automobile .
Usually this refers to  an  SLI battery ( starting , lighting  ,  ignition ) to power the starter  मोटर  , the lights ,  और   the  ignition system  of   a  vehicle’s engine .
Automotive SLI  बैटरी  are  प्रायः  lead-acid  प्रकार  , and are made of six galvanic cells in series to  provide  a 12 volt system  .
प्रत्येक  cell provides 2.1 volts  लिये  a total of 12.6  वोल्ट   at   पूरा  charge .
Heavy vehicles such  as  highway trucks or  tractors  , often equipped with  डीज़ल  engines ,  may   have   दो  batteries in  श्रेणी  for a  24  volt system , or  may  have parallel strings  of   बैटरी   .
Lead-acid batteries are made  up  of plates  of  lead and separate plates of  सीसे  dioxide , which are  submerged  into an electrolyte  समाधान  of  परिचय  38 % sulfuric acid and 62  %  water  .
This  कल्याणकारी  a chemical  प्रतिक्रिया  that releases electrons  ,  allowing them to flow through  conductors   to   उपज  electricity .
As the battery discharges , the acid of  the  electrolyte reacts with  the  materials of the  प्लेटों  , changing  उनके  surface to lead sulfate .
जब  the battery is  recharged  , the  रासायनिक  reaction  is  reversed : the lead  सल्फेट  reforms into lead dioxide  और  lead .
साथ  the plates restored to their original condition , the process may now be repeated .
Battery  रीसाइक्लिंग   of  automotive batteries reduces  the  need for  संसाधन  required for manufacture of new  बैटरी  , diverts toxic lead from  landfills   ,  and prevents risk  of  improper disposal  .
full-time  employment  is  employment in which a person works a minimum  क्रमांक  of hours  पारिभाषित  as such  by  his/her  नियोक्ता  .
full-time  employment often comes  साथ  benefits  कि   हैं  not  typically   offered  to part-time , temporary , or  लचीली   मजदूर  , such  as  annual leave  ,  sickleave  ,  and health insurance  .
Full-time  कार्य   हैं  often considered careers .
They generally  अदा  more than part-time jobs ,  और  usually carry more  घंटों  per week  .
The  मेला  Labor Standards Act ( FLSA ) does  नहीं  define full-time employment  or  part-time employment  .
इस   is  a matter  generally  to be determined by the  नियोक्ता  ( US Department of Labor )  .
The definition by employer can  vary  and is generally  प्रकाशित  in  a  company  's  Employee Handbook .
Companies commonly require  इससे   30–35  or 40  घंटों   प्रति  week to  be  defined as full-time  और   इसलिए  eligible  लिये   लाभ  .
Full-Time status varies  between  company  और   is  often based  on  the  शिफ़्ट  the employee  जरूर   कार्य   दौरान  each work week .
The `` standard ''  कार्य  week consists of five eight-hour days ,  commonly  served between  9:00am   to  5:00PM totaling 40 hours  .
While a four-day week generally consists of four ten-hour days ; it may also consist of  as  little as nine  घंटों  for a total of a 36 hour work week  .
twelve-hour   शिफ्ट  are often three days  प्रति  week , unless the  कम्पनी  has the intention of paying out the employee overtime .
Overtime is legally  सशुल्क  out anytime an  कर्मचारी  works more than 40  घंटों  per  सप्ताह  .
The  विधिक  minimum for overtime starts at Base  अदा  + One-Half .
The increased payout is considered  to  compensate slightly for  the  increased fatigue which a  व्यक्ति  experiences on such  long  shifts  .
Shifts can also be  बहुत  irregular , as  in  retail , but are  स्टिल  full-time if the required number of hours is  पहुँचे  .
There are  कुछ  situations where a person who needs full-time work is dropped  to  part-time , which  is  sometimes a form of  constructive   dismissal  to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker .
Seahorse is the title given to 54 species of marine fish in the genus  हिप्पोकैम्पस   .
`` Hippocampus '' comes  इससे  the Ancient Greek hippos  अर्थ   ``   घोड़ा   ''  and kampos meaning ``  समुद्र  monster ''  .
The  नियंत्रित  Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress  of   the  United States as  शीर्षक  II of the Comprehensive  ड्रग  Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the  संघीय  U.S. drug policy under which  the  manufacture , importation , possession , use and distribution of certain substances is regulated .
The Act also served as  the  national implementing legislation for  the  Single  सम्मेलन   on  Narcotic Drugs .
The legislation created  पाँच  Schedules (  classifications  ) , with varying qualifications  लिये  a substance to be  शामिल  in each  .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and  ड्रग   प्रशासन   ,  determine  जिससे   substances  are added to or removed from the various schedules ,  हालांकि   the  statute passed  by  Congress created the initial listing  ,  and  कॉंग्रेस   रै  sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation  ऐसे  as the  hillory   J.  Farias and Samantha  reid  Date-Rape Prevention  अधिनियम   of   2000  , which placed  गामा  hydroxybutyrate in  अनुसूची   i  . Classification  निर्णय  are  जरूरी   to  be  बना  on criteria  सहित  potential for abuse (  an  undefined  पद  ) , currently accepted medical  उपयोग  in treatment in the  संयुक्त  States  ,  and  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  treaties .
माया   numerals
Maya numerals are  a  vigesimal ( base  -  twenty ) numeral system used by the  pre-columbian  Maya civilization .
The numerals are made up of three symbols ; zero ( shell  आकार  ) , one ( a dot ) and five ( a  बार  ) .
For example , thirteen is written as three dots in a horizontal  पंक्ति  above two horizontal lines stacked above each other .
Lyndon Baines Johnson  (  August 27  ,  1908 –  जनवरी  22  ,   1973   )  , often referred to as LBJ , was the  36th  President of the United States  (  1963–1969 ) , a  स्थिति  he assumed  बाद   उसके  service  as  the 37th Vice President of the  संयुक्त  States (  1961–1963   )  .
he  is one of only four  लोगों  who  परोसा  in  सब  four  निर्वाचित  federal offices  of  the United States : Representative , Senator  ,   वाइस   अध्यक्ष  , and President .
जॉनसन  , a Democrat from Texas , served as  a   संयुक्त  States Representative from  1937–1949  and as a  सीनेटर  from 1949–1961  ,  including six years as  संयुक्त  States Senate Majority Leader ,  दो  as Senate Minority Leader  और  two  as   सीनेट  Majority Whip .
After  campaigning  unsuccessfully  लिये  the Democratic nomination  in  1960 , Johnson was asked by John F. Kennedy to be his running mate for the 1960  अध्यक्षीय  election .
जॉनसन  succeeded to the presidency following  the  assassination  of  John F.  कैनेडी  on November 22 , 1963 , completed Kennedy 's  पद  and was elected President in his own right , winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election .
Johnson was greatly supported  by  the  लोकतांत्रिक   पार्टी   और   as  President , he was  जिम्मेदार  for designing the `` Great Society `` legislation that included laws that upheld civil rights , public broadcasting , Medicare , Medicaid  ,  environmental protection , aid to education ,  और  his `` War on Poverty . ''
Johnson was  प्रसिद्ध   लिये   उसके  domineering personality and the  ``  Johnson treatment , '' his coercion of powerful politicians in  अनुक्रम   to   अग्रिम  legislation  .
Meanwhile ,  जॉनसन  escalated American involvement  in  the Vietnam War , from 16,000 American  advisors/soldiers   in  1963 to 550,000 combat troops  in  early 1968  ,  as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down .
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar movement based especially on  विश्वविद्यालयों  campuses in the U.S.  और  abroad .
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965 , and crime rates soared , as his opponents  उठाया  demands for `` law and order ''  नीतियों   .
The Democratic Party  विभाजित   in   अनेक  feuding factions , and after Johnson did  poorly  in  the  1968 New Hampshire  प्राथमिक  , he ended his bid for reelection .
Republican Richard Nixon was  निर्वाचित  to succeed him .
Historians argue  कि  Johnson 's presidency marked the peak of modern liberalism  in  the United States after the New Deal  era   .
Johnson  is  ranked favorably by some historians  क्युकी  of his  घरेलू   नीतियों   .
प्रोजेस्टेरोन  also known as P4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a  c-21  steroid hormone involved  in   the  female menstrual cycle  ,  pregnancy  (  supports gestation ) and embryogenesis of  इंसानो  and other species .
Progesterone belongs to a class of hormones called progestogens ,  और  is the  प्रमुख  naturally occurring human progestogen .
बिग  Bird is a  समर्थक   of  the children 's television show Sesame Street  .
Officially performed by  caroll  Spinney since 1969 , he  is  an eight-foot two-inch (  249  cm )  लम्बा  bright primrose-yellow bird .
he  can  रोलर  skate , ice skate  ,  dance , sing  ,  write poetry , draw and even ride  a  unicycle  .
But despite this  चौड़ी  array of talents , he is prone to frequent misunderstandings , on  एक  occasion even  गायन  the alphabet  as  one big  long  word ( from  the  song called `` ABC-DEF-GHI , '' pronounced `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ) , pondering what  it  could  कभी  mean .
He  जीवनदान  in  a   विशाल  nest behind the  123  Sesame Street brownstone and  रै  a  टेडी  bear named Radar  .
webtrends  is a  निजी  company headquartered in Portland , Oregon , United States .
It provides web , social  ,  and mobile analytics and other software solutions related to  विपणन  intelligence .
The company was founded in 1993  और   अभी  serves  अधिक  than 10,000 large and small firms. < ref name='Intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
The  दूसरी  Crusade ( 1145–1149 ) was  the   दूसरी  major crusade  शुभारम्भ   इससे  Europe .
The  दूसरी  Crusade was  प्रारंभ  in  जवाब  to the fall of the County  of  Edessa the previous year to the forces of Zengi .
The county  था   महरूम   संस्थापित  during the First Crusade  (  1096–1099 ) by Baldwin of Boulogne in 1098  .
While  it  was the  पहला  Crusader state to be  संस्थापित  ,  it  was also the first to fall .
The Second Crusade was  घोषित  by Pope Eugene III  ,  and was  the   पहला  of the crusades to be led by European kings  ,  namely  लुई  VII of  फ़्रांस  and Conrad III of Germany , with help  इससे  a number of other European nobles .
The armies of the two  किंग्स  marched separately across  यूरोपीय  .
After crossing Byzantine territory into  आनातोलिया  , both  सेना   यहूद  separately defeated  by  the  seljuq  Turks .
The main Western  ईसाई  source  ,  Odo of Deuil , and  syriac  Christian  स्त्रोत  claim that  the  Byzantine emperor  मैनुएल   i  Comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' progress ,  विशेषकर   in  Anatolia where he is alleged  to  have deliberately ordered Turks to attack them .
लुई  and Conrad and  the  remnants  of  their armies reached Jerusalem and , in 1148  ,  participated in an ill-advised attack  on  Damascus .
The crusade  in  the east was a failure for the crusaders and a great victory for the Muslims .
It would ultimately  have   a  key  influence  on  the  fall  of   जेरूसलम  and  दे  rise to the Third Crusade at the end of the 12th  सदी  .
The only  कामयाबी   of   the  Second Crusade came to a combined force  of  13,000 Flemish , Frisian , Norman , English , Scottish  ,   और  German crusaders in 1147  .
यात्राएं  from England  ,  by ship , to the Holy  जमीन  , the army stopped and  helped  the smaller (  7,000  ) Portuguese  फौज  in the capture of Lisbon , expelling its Moorish  occupants  .
Wal-Mart Stores , Inc. ( )  ,  branded as Walmart , is an American multinational retail corporation that runs chains of large  छूट  department stores and warehouse stores .
the  company is the  संसार  's  तीसरा  largest public corporation , according to  the   सौभाग्य   वैश्विक  500 list in 2012 , the biggest private employer in the  संसार   साथ  over  दो   लाख  employees  ,   और   is  the largest retailer in the world .
Walmart remains a family-owned business , as  the  company is controlled by the Walton  परिवार  , who own a 48 percent stake in Walmart .
it  is  भी  one  of  the world 's most valuable  कंपनियाँ  .
The company  थी  founded  by  Sam  वाल्टन   in  1962 , incorporated on October 31 , 1969 ,  और  publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972 .
It is headquartered in Bentonville ,  अरकंसास   .
Walmart is also the largest grocery retailer in the United States .
In 2009  ,  it generated 51 percent of  इसके  US  $  258 billion sales in  the  U.S. from  किराना  business .
It also owns  और  operates the Sam 's Club retail warehouses in North  अमेरिका   .
By 1988 ,  wal-mart   थी  the  सबसे  profitable  रिटेलर  in  the  US , and by November 1990  ,   it  outsold K-mart .
By 1991  it  outsold Sears in  खुदरा  , making  it  America 's largest  रिटेलर  , a distinction it  स्टिल  holds  .
walmart  has 8,500 stores in  15   देशों  ,  अंतर्गत  55 different names .
The company  operates  under the Walmart name in  the  United  राज्य  ,  सहित  the 50 states and Puerto Rico .
It operates in  मैक्सिको  as  walmex  ,  in  the United Kingdom as Asda , in Japan as Seiyu , and in India as Best Price  .
It has wholly  स्वामित्व  operations in Argentina , Brazil , and  कनाडा  .
walmart   's  investments  बाहर  North America have had  मिश्रित  results  :  its operations in the United  किंगडम  ,  दक्षिण  America ,  और   चीन  are highly successful , whereas ventures in Germany and South Korea were unsuccessful .
Robert William  गेरी  Moore ( 4 April  1952   –  6 February 2011 ) , was a Northern Irish  संगीतकार   ,   सबसे  widely recognised  as  a singer and guitarist .
In a career dating  वापस  to  the   1960s  , Moore played  साथ  artists including Phil  lynott   और  Brian  downey  during his teens , leading  उसे  to memberships with the Irish  bands  Skid Row and Thin Lizzy on three separate occasions .
Moore shared the  स्टेज   साथ  such blues and rock luminaries as B.B .  किंग  , Albert King ,  कोलोसियम   ii   ,  George Harrison and Greg Lake , as well  as  having a successful solo career .
He guested on  a  number of albums recorded  by  high profile musicians , including a cameo appearance playing the lead guitar solo  on  `` She 's My Baby ``  इससे  Traveling Wilburys Vol . 3 .
An example of  रैक  mounted servers
a  web hosting  सेवा  is a type of Internet hosting service  कि  allows individuals and  संगठन  to make their  जालस्थल  accessible via the World  चौड़ी  Web  .
Web hosts are  कंपनियाँ  that provide  स्पेस  on a  सर्वर  owned or  leased  for use by clients , as well as providing Internet connectivity , typically in a data center .
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the Internet for other servers located in their  आंकड़ा  center , called  colocation  , also  ज्ञात  as Housing in Latin America or France  .
The scope of web hosting services  varies  greatly .
the  most  मौलिक  is web page  और   small-scale   संचिका  hosting  ,  where files can be uploaded via File Transfer Protocol  (  FTP  )  or a  वेब  interface .
The files  हैं  usually  वितरित  to the Web  ``  as is '' or with minimal processing .
Many Internet service providers ( ISPs ) offer  इस  service free to subscribers .
Individuals and organizations  may  also obtain Web page hosting from alternative service providers  .
Personal web site hosting is typically free , advertisement-sponsored , or inexpensive  .
कारोबार  web site hosting often has a higher  व्यय   depending  upon the size and type of the website .
Single page hosting is generally sufficient for personal  वेब  pages .
A complex site calls for a more  व्यापक   पैकेज  that provides database support and  अनुप्रयोग  development platforms  (  e.g  .  PHP , Java , Ruby on Rails , ColdFusion  ,   or  ASP.NET ) .
ये   सुविधाएं   allow  customers to write or install  स्क्रिप्ट  for applications like  forums  and content management  .
Also , Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL ) is typically used for e-commerce .
the   मेजबान  may also provide an interface or  कंट्रोल  panel for managing the Web server and installing scripts ,  as   खूब  as other modules and service applications like  e-mail   .
Some hosts specialize in certain  तन्त्र  or services ( e.g . e-commerce  )  , which are commonly used by larger companies that  outsource  network infrastructure .
Obstetrics  (  from the Latin obstare  ,  `` to stand  by  '' ) is the medical specialty dealing with the care of all women 's reproductive tracts and their children during pregnancy ( prenatal  काल  ) , childbirth and the postnatal period  .
Many obstetricians are also gynecologists , meaning they perform in both specialties .
in   the  United  राज्य  , these physicians are commonly referred to as OB/GYNs  .
The Wright brothers , Orville (  अगस्त  19 , 1871 –  जनवरी  30 , 1948 ) and Wilbur ( April 16 , 1867 – May 30 , 1912  )  ,  यहूद  two American brothers  ,  inventors , and aviation pioneers  जो   यहूद   credited  with inventing and building the world 's first successful airplane and  बनाना  the first controlled , powered and sustained heavier-than-air human flight  ,  on December 17 ,  1903  .
From 1905 to 1907 , the brothers developed their flying machine into the first practical fixed-wing aircraft .
Although not  the  first to build  और   मक्खी  experimental aircraft , the Wright  भाइयो  were the first  to  invent aircraft controls that  बना  fixed-wing  संचालित   उड़ान  possible  .
The brothers ' fundamental breakthrough was their  आविष्कार  of three-axis control , which enabled  the  pilot to  steer  the aircraft effectively and to maintain its equilibrium  .
This method  became   मानक  and remains standard on fixed-wing aircraft of all kinds  .
From the beginning  of  their aeronautical work  ,  the Wright brothers focused on  विकासशील  a reliable method of pilot  कंट्रोल   as   the  key  to  solving `` the flying problem '' .
This approach differed significantly from  अन्य  experimenters of  the  time who  put  more emphasis  on  developing powerful engines  .
Using a  छोटी   homebuilt  wind tunnel , the Wrights also collected more accurate data than any  पहले  , enabling  उन्हें   to   डिज़ाइन  and build  विंग्स  and propellers that were more efficient than any before .
Their first  u.S.  patent , 821,393 , did not  अर्जी  invention  of   a  flying  यंत्र  , but rather , the invention  of  a system of aerodynamic control that manipulated  a  flying  यंत्र  's surfaces .
They gained the mechanical skills  अनिवार्य  for their success by working for years in their  दूकान  with printing  दबाता  , bicycles , motors , and other  मशीनरी  .
Their work  साथ   साइकिल  in particular influenced their belief that an unstable vehicle  जैसे  a flying machine could be controlled and balanced with practice  .
इससे  1900 until  उनके  first powered flights in  लेट  1903  ,   वे   conducted  extensive glider tests that also developed  उनके   कौशल  as pilots .
Their bicycle shop employee Charlie Taylor became  an  important  भाग  of the team , building their first aircraft  इंजन  in close collaboration with the  भाइयो  .
The  राइट  brothers ' status as inventors of the airplane has been subject to counter-claims by various parties .
much  controversy persists over the many competing claims  of  early aviators .
America 's Next Top Model  ,  Cycle 12 is the twelfth cycle of  अमेरिका  's  अगला  Top Model  और  the sixth season to air  on   the  CW network .
It premiered on March 4 , 2009 .
The cycle 's catch phrase is `` Get  in  The Fold . ''
The cycle 's promotional song is Lady Gaga 's ``  the  Fame ''  .
The prizes for  इस  cycle are:
A modeling  अनुबंध  with Elite Model Management .
A fashion spread  और  cover  in  Seventeen .
A  100,000  contract with CoverGirl cosmetics .
The first half of the cycle took place in  नई  York  नगर  , moving the show  वापस  from Los  एंजिल्स  last season .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  destination for this cycle is São Paulo  ,  Brazil , the series first visit to South America  .
The number of girls was  घटाया  to 13  ,  the  पहला  time since Cycle 9 , after being maintained at 14 in the  पिछला   दो   चक्र  .
This was the last time Paulina Porizkova participated as judge .
The winner was 20-year-old Teyona Anderson from Woodstown , New Jersey .
This season averaged 4.35 million  दर्शक  per episode  .
Exxon Mobil Corporation , or ExxonMobil , is an American multinational oil and gas corporation headquartered  in  Irving ,  टेक्सास   ,  United States .
It  is  a direct descendant of John D. Rockefeller 's Standard Oil company , and was formed  on  November 30  ,  1999 ,  by  the merger of Exxon  और  Mobil .
It is affiliated with Imperial Oil which operates in Canada .
ExxonMobil is  the  world 's largest  कम्पनी  by revenue and in 2013  ,  became the largest publicly traded company by market  capitalization  in the world .
the  company is  क्रमित  # 5 globally  in  Forbes Global 2000 list in 2013 .
Exxon Mobil  's  reserves were 72 billion oil-equivalent  barrels  at the end of 2007 and , at  तब  ( 2007 )  दरों  of production  ,  are expected to last  over   14   सालो  .
With  37  oil refineries in 21 countries constituting a combined daily refining  क्षमता   of  , Exxon Mobil  is  the largest refiner in the  संसार  , a title  कि  was also  संबद्ध   साथ   मानक  Oil  चूंकि  its incorporation in 1870  .
exxonmobil  is the largest of the world 's supermajors with daily production of 3.921  लाख   boe   (  barrels of  आयल   समतुल्य  ) .
In 2008  ,  this  थी  approximately 3 %  of  world production  ,  which is less  than  several of  the  largest state-owned petroleum companies .
जब  ranked by  आयल  and gas reserves it  is  14th in the world with less than 1 %  of  the total .
A 2012 article  in  The Daily  टेलीग्राफ  says that ExxonMobil has `` grown into  एक   of  the  planet’s  most hated corporations ,  समर्थ  to determine American foreign  नीति  and the fate of entire nations '' .
In  शर्तें   of  its environmental record ,  exxonmobil   increasingly  drills  in   terrains  leased to them by dictatorships , such as those in Chad and Equatorial Guinea .
Lee Raymond , the corporation’s  मुख्य  executive until 2005  ,  was `` notoriously sceptical about climate change and disliked government interference  at  any level '' .
the  company was widely  criticized   लिये  its slow response  to  cleaning its 1989  valdez  oil spill  in  Alaska  .
This  आलेख  is about the Globe Theatre of Shakespeare .
For the modern reconstruction in London , see Shakespeare 's Globe .
For other uses , see Globe Theatre ( disambiguation ) .
The Globe Theatre was a theatre  in   लंदन  associated with William Shakespeare .
It  थी  built in 1599  by  Shakespeare 's playing company , the  रब  Chamberlain 's Men , on  जमीन   स्वामित्व  by Thomas Brend and  inherited   by  his son , Nicholas Brend and grandson  सर  Matthew  brend   ,  and was  नष्ट  by  आग  on 29 June 1613 .
A  दूसरी  Globe Theatre was built on the same site  by  June  1614  and closed in 1642  .
A  आधुनिक  reconstruction of the Globe , named `` Shakespeare 's  ग्लोब  `` ,  खोली  in 1997  लगभग   इससे  the site of the original theatre .
It 's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 American Christmas drama film produced and directed by Frank Capra , based on the  छोटी  story `` The Greatest Gift `` , which Philip Van Doren  stern  wrote in 1939 and privately published in 1945 .
the  film is considered one  of  the most loved films in American cinema  और   रै  become traditional viewing during the Christmas  ऋतु  , alongside  लोकप्रिय  classics such as Charles Dickens ' A Christmas Carol .
The  फिल्मी   सितारों  James Stewart as George Bailey , a man who has given up his dreams in order  to   सहायता  others and  जिनकी  imminent suicide on Christmas Eve brings about the  हस्तक्षेप  of his guardian  देवदूत  ,  क्लेरेंस  Odbody (  हेनरी  Travers ) .
क्लेरेंस  shows George all the lives he has touched and how different life in his community  of   bedford  Falls would be had he never been born .
Despite initially performing poorly at the box office due to high production  लागत  and stiff competition at the time of its release , the film has come to be  regarded  as  a  classic and is a staple of Christmas television  around  the world  .
Theatrically  ,  the film  's  break-even point was actually  $  6.3  लाख  , approximately twice the production cost  ,   a  figure it never came close to achieving  in  its  आरंभिक  release .
An  appraisal   in  2006 reported : ``  हालांकि  it  थी  not  the   पूरा  box office  विफलता  that today everyone believes ... it was initially a major disappointment  और  confirmed , at  तनिक   to  the studios , that Capra was  no  longer capable  of  turning out the populist features that made his films the must-see ,  money-making  events  वे  once were . ''
the  film was nominated for  पाँच  Oscars and has been recognized by the American Film Institute as one of the 100  बेहतरीन  American films ever made , placing number 11  on  its  आरंभिक  1998 greatest  फिल्म   सूची  , and  होता   भी  place number one on its list of  the  most  प्रेरणादायक  American films of all time .
Data Warehouse Overview
In computing , a  आंकड़ा  warehouse  or  enterprise data warehouse ( DW , DWH , or EDW  )   is  a database used for reporting and data analysis .
It is a central repository of data which is created by  integrating  data  इससे  one  or  more disparate sources .
Data warehouses store current as well as historical data and are used for creating  चर्चित  reports  लिये   वरिष्ठ  management reporting such as annual and quarterly comparisons .
The data stored in the  गोदाम   हैं  uploaded from  the  operational systems  (  such as marketing , sales etc. , shown in  the  figure to the right ) .
The data may pass through an operational  आंकड़ा  store for additional  परिचालन  before  वे   हैं  used in the DW for reporting  .
the  typical ETL -based  आंकड़ा  warehouse  उपयोग  staging  ,  data integration , and access layers  to  house its key functions  .
The  स्टेजिंग  layer or staging database stores raw data  निकाली  from each of the disparate source data systems .
The integration layer  integrates  the disparate  आंकड़ा  sets by transforming the data from  the  staging layer often storing this transformed data in an operational  आंकड़ा  store ( ODS ) database  .
The  एकीकृत  data are then moved to yet another  डेटाबेस  , often called the data warehouse database ,  जहाँ  the data is  arranged  into hierarchical groups often called  आयाम  and into facts and aggregate facts .
the  combination of facts and  आयाम  is sometimes called  a   स्टार   स्कीमा  .
The  अभिगम  layer helps users retrieve data .
A  आंकड़ा  warehouse  constructed  from an integrated data source systems does not require ETL  ,  staging databases  ,  or operational data store  databases  .
The integrated data source systems may be  माना   to   be  a part of a distributed operational data store layer .
आंकड़ा   संघ  methods  or  data virtualization  विधि  may  be  used to access the distributed integrated  सोर्स   आंकड़ा  systems to consolidate  और  aggregate data directly into the data warehouse database tables .
Unlike  the   etl-based  data warehouse , the integrated source data systems and  the  data  गोदाम   हैं  all integrated since there is  no  transformation  of  dimensional or  सन्दर्भ   आंकड़ा  .
This integrated data warehouse architecture supports  the  drill down from the  कुल  data of the  आंकड़ा  warehouse to the transactional data of the  एकीकृत  source data systems .
Data warehouses can  be  subdivided into data marts  .
Data marts store subsets of  आंकड़ा  from a warehouse .
This definition of  the   आंकड़ा  warehouse  focuses  on data storage  .
The main source of the data is cleaned  ,  transformed  ,  cataloged and  बना  available  लिये  use by managers  और  other business professionals  लिये   आंकड़ा  mining , online analytical processing , market research and decision support ( Marakas & O'Brien 2009 ) .
However , the means to retrieve  और   analyze  data ,  to  extract  ,  transform and  लोड  data  ,  and  to  manage the data dictionary  हैं  also considered essential components  of  a  आंकड़ा   warehousing  system .
Many references to data warehousing use this broader context .
Thus , an expanded definition for data warehousing includes business intelligence tools , tools to extract , transform  और  load data  into  the  repository  ,  और  tools  to  manage  और   retrieve  metadata .
Portland stone quarry  on   the  Isle  of  Portland , England
An abandoned construction  कुल  quarry near Adelaide , South Australia
A quarry is a type  of  open-pit mine from which rock or minerals  हैं  extracted .
Quarries are generally used for extracting  भवन  materials , such as dimension stone , construction aggregate , riprap , sand , and gravel .
They are  प्रायः  collocated with concrete  और  asphalt plants  due  to the requirement for large amounts of  कुल  in those materials  .
Open mines that produce minerals are typically referred to as open pit mines .
The word quarry can  शामिल  underground  quarrying  for  स्टोन   ,  such as Bath stone .
Mormons ( ) are a religious and cultural group  सम्बन्धित  to Mormonism , the principal branch  of  the Latter Day  संत  movement of Restorationist Christianity , which began with the  visions  of  जोसेफ  Smith  in  upstate New  यॉर्क   दौरान  the 1820s  .
बाद  Smith 's  मौत  in 1844 the  mormons  followed Brigham Young to what  होता   become  the Utah Territory  .
Today Mormons are  समझा  to be members of The Church of Jesus  मसीह  of  latter-day  Saints ( LDS Church ) .
Some Mormons are also either  स्वतंत्र   or  non-practicing .
the  center of  mormon  cultural influence is in Utah , and  उत्तर  America has more Mormons than any other continent , though the majority  of  Mormons live outside the United  राज्य  .
Mormons  have  developed  a  strong sense of communality that  तना   इससे   उनके  doctrine and  इतिहास  .
During the 19th  सदी   mormon   converts  tended to gather to a central geographic  स्थान  , and between 1852 and 1890  a  minority  of  Mormons openly practiced  बहुवचन   विवाह  ,  a   रूप  of religious polygamy .
Mormons dedicate large amounts  of   समय  and  संसाधन  to serving in their  गिरिजाघर  , and many  यंग   mormons  choose to serve a full-time proselytizing mission .
Mormons  have  a health code that eschews alcoholic beverages ,  तम्बाकू  , coffee , tea ,  और  other  addictive  substances .
They tend to be very family-oriented , and have strong connections across  पीढियां  and  साथ  extended family , reflective of their belief that families can be  sealed  together beyond death and throughout  शाश्वत  .
Mormons also have a strict  विधि  of chastity , requiring  abstention  from  यौन  relations outside of marriage and strict fidelity within marriage .
mormons  self-identify as Christian , though some of their beliefs differ  इससे  mainstream Christianity .
Mormons believe in  the  Bible , as well as other books of scripture , such as  the  Book of Mormon .
वे  have a unique view of cosmology ,  और   मानना   कि  all people are  spirit-children  of God .
Mormons believe that returning to God requires following the  उदाहरण  of Jesus Christ , and accepting his atonement  through  ordinances such as baptism .
वे  believe that Christ 's church was  लौटी  through Joseph  स्मिथ  , and is  हिदायत  by living prophets  और  apostles .
सेंट्रल  to  mormon  faith  is  the  विश्वास  that God speaks to his children  और  answers  उनके  prayers .
in  financial accounting , assets  हैं  economic resources .
Anything tangible  or  intangible that is capable of being owned or controlled to produce value and that is  आयोजित  to have positive  आर्थिक  value  is   माना  an asset .
Simply stated  ,  assets represent value  of  ownership that can  be  converted into cash  (   हालांकि  cash itself is also considered an asset  )  .
The balance  चादर  of a firm  रिकॉर्ड  the  monetaryj  .
G. Siegel , N. Dauber & J. K.  shim  , `` The  बनियान  Pocket CPA '' , Wiley , 2005.There are different methods of assessing  the  monetary value of the assets recorded on the Balance Sheet .
In some cases  ,  the Historical  लागत  is used ; such that  the  value of the asset when it was bought in the past is used as the  मौद्रिक  value .
in  other instances , the  उपस्थित  fair  मार्केट  value  of  the asset is used to determine the value shown on the balance sheet .
value of the  एसेट   स्वामित्व  by the firm .
It  is   धन  and  अन्य  valuables belonging  to  an individual  or  business .
Two major  एसेट  classes are tangible  एसेट  and intangible assets .
ठोस  assets contain various subclasses , including current  एसेट  and fixed  assets.j  .
Downes , J.E . Goodman ,  ``   शब्दकोष  of Finance & Investment Terms ''  ,  Baron 's Financial Guides , 2003 Current assets include inventory , while fixed assets include such  वस्तुएं  as buildings and equipment .J  .  Downes , J.E . Goodman , `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment  शर्तें   ''  , Baron  's  Financial Guides , 2003 ; and J. G. Siegel  ,  N. Dauber & J. K. Shim ,  ``  The Vest  जेब  CPA  ''  , Wiley  ,  2005 .
Intangible assets are nonphysical resources  और   अधिकारों  that have a value to the firm because  वे  give the firm some  दयालु  of advantage in the market place  .
Examples of intangible assets are goodwill , copyrights , trademarks , patents and  कंप्यूटर  programs , and financial  एसेट  , including  ऐसे  items as accounts receivable , bonds and stocks .
A neuron  (  or ;  भी  known as a neurone  or  nerve cell  )  is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical  और  chemical signals  .
A chemical  सिग्नल   occurs   via  a synapse , a  specialized  connection with other cells .
Neurons  कनेक्ट  to each other  to  form neural networks .
Neurons are  the   कोर  components of the nervous system , which includes the brain , spinal cord ,  और  peripheral ganglia .
A number  of   specialized  types of neurons exist : sensory neurons respond  to  touch , sound , light and numerous  अन्य  stimuli affecting cells of the sensory organs  कि   तब  send  सिग्नल  to the spinal cord and brain  .
Motor neurons receive  सिग्नल  from the  दिमाग  and spinal cord , cause muscle  contractions  , and affect glands .
Interneurons connect  न्यूरॉन्स  to other neurons within the same region of the brain or spinal cord .
A typical neuron  possesses  a cell body ( often  पुकारा  the soma ) , dendrites , and an  axon  .
Dendrites  हैं   पतला   structures  that arise from the cell  देह  , often  extending  for hundreds of micrometres and branching multiple times ,  giving  rise to a complex `` dendritic tree  ''   .
an  axon is a special cellular  एक्सटेंशन  that arises from the cell body at  a  site called the axon hillock and travels  लिये  a distance , as far  as  1  मीटर  in humans or even more in other species .
The cell body of a neuron frequently gives rise to multiple dendrites , but never  to  more than one axon  ,  although the axon may branch hundreds of times before it terminates .
At  the  majority of synapses , signals are sent  इससे  the axon of one neuron to a  dendrite  of another .
वहीँ   हैं  , however , many  अपवाद  to these rules :  न्यूरॉन्स  that lack dendrites , neurons that have no axon , synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to  another   dendrite   ,  etc .
All  न्यूरॉन्स  are electrically  excitable  , maintaining  वोल्टेज  gradients  आरपार   उनके   झिल्लियों  by means of metabolically driven ion pumps , which combine  साथ  ion channels embedded in the membrane to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular concentration differences of ions such as sodium , potassium ,  chloride   ,  and calcium .
Changes in  the  cross-membrane voltage can alter the function of voltage-dependent ion  चैनल्स   .
If the  वोल्टेज  changes by a large  पर्याप्त  amount , an all-or-none electrochemical pulse  पुकारा  an action potential is generated , which travels rapidly along the cell 's axon , and activates synaptic  कनेक्शन्स  with  अन्य  cells when it arrives .
Neurons  do  not undergo  कोशिका  division .
In most cases ,  न्यूरॉन्स  are generated by special  प्रकार  of stem  कोशिकाएं   .
Astrocytes ,  a  type of glial cell  ,   have   भी  been  observed   to  turn into neurons by  पुण्य  of the stem  कोशिका   characteristic  pluripotency .
in  humans , neurogenesis largely ceases during adulthood—but in two brain areas , the hippocampus and olfactory bulb , there is strong evidence for generation of substantial numbers of  नई  neurons .
Super Bowl XLIII was an American  फ़ुटबॉल  game between  the  American  फ़ुटबॉल  Conference ( AFC )  चैंपियन   पिट्सबर्ग  Steelers and  the   नेशनल  Football  सम्मेलन  ( NFC ) champion Arizona Cardinals to decide  the   नेशनल  Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 season .
The  स्टीलर्स  defeated the Cardinals by the score of 27–23 .
The game  थी  played on February 1  ,  2009 , at  रेमंड   जेम्स  Stadium  in  Tampa ,  फ्लोरिडा  .
With this  जीत  , the  स्टीलर्स  became the first team  to  win  छह   सुपर  Bowls .
पिट्सबर्ग  ,  जो   समाप्त  the regular season with a 12–4  रिकार्ड  , also won their  दूसरी  Super  कटोरी  in four years after winning Super  कटोरी  XL at the end of the 2005 season .
the   कार्डिनल्स  entered  the   खेल  seeking  उनके  first NFL title since 1947 , the  longest  championship drought  in  the league .
The club became an unexpected winner during the regular season  ,  compiling a  9–7  record , and the playoffs  साथ  the aid of head coach Ken Whisenhunt ,  जो  was  the  Steelers '  अप्रिय   समन्वयक  in  सुपर  Bowl XL  ,  and the re-emergence  of  quarterback  कर्ट  Warner ,  जो   थी   the   सुपर  Bowl  mvp   in  Super  कटोरी  XXXIV with his former team , St. Louis Rams  .
Pittsburgh  कूद  to a 17–7  मध्यांतर  lead , aided by linebacker James Harrison 's  सुपर   कटोरी  record 100-yard  interception  return for a touchdown .
trailing  20–7 at the start of the fourth quarter , Arizona scored 16 unanswered points , including wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald  's   64-yard  touchdown reception , to take the lead with  2:37  remaining in the game .
But the Steelers  marched  78  गज  to score on wide  receiver  Santonio Holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left .
Holmes , who caught nine passes for 131 yards  और  a touchdown ,  सहित   चार  receptions for 73 yards on that final game-winning  ड्राइव  , was named Super Bowl MVP  .
He became the  छठे  wide  receiver  to win the award , and also was the third Pittsburgh receiver to win the award , following Lynn Swann and Hines  वार्ड  .
despite  the  वैश्विक  financial crisis and limited amount of ancillary festivities that  हैं  normally  आयोजित  before the game  ,  the NBC television network broadcast attracted an average U.S. audience of 98.7 million viewers ,  बनाना  it the most watched Super Bowl  in  history to that point .
A diagram of  the   इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक   वर्णक्रम  , showing  विभिन्न   गुण   आरपार  the range  of  frequencies and  wavelengths
The  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic  विकिरण  .
The ``  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  spectrum '' of an  ऑब्जेक्ट  has a different  अर्थ  ,  और   is  instead the  characteristic   वितरण  of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by  कि   particular  object .
The electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम  extends from below  the   कम   बारंबारता  used for  आधुनिक   रेडियो  communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end ,  thereby  covering wavelengths from  हज़ारों   of  kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an  अणु  .
The  सीमा  for long wavelengths is the  आकार  of the universe itself , while it  is  thought that  the  short wavelength limit is in  the  vicinity  of  the Planck length , although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum  हैं  used in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions ,  as   तरीके  to study and characterize matter .
In addition , radiation from various parts of the  वर्णक्रम   रै   मिला  many other uses for  संचार  and  निर्माण   (  see  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  radiation for more applications  )  .
Legend
marchantia  , a liverwort
Bryophyte is a  परंपरागत  name used to refer to all  embryophytes  ( land plants  )  that do not have true  vascular  tissue and are therefore  पुकारा  ' non-vascular plants  '  .
Some bryophytes do have specialized tissues for the transport of  जल   ;  however since these do not contain lignin ,  वे   हैं  not considered  to   be  true vascular tissue .
Currently bryophytes  हैं  thought not to be a natural or monophyletic  समूह  ; however the name is convenient and remains in  उपयोग  as  a   सामूहिक  term  लिये  mosses , hornworts , and liverworts .
bryophytes  produce  enclosed  reproductive structures ( gametangia and sporangia ) , but they  उपज  neither flowers nor seeds , reproducing via spores .
The term bryophyte comes from Greek βρύον ,  bryon  ,  ``   tree-moss  ,  oyster-green  ''  +  φυτόν - phyton ``  संयंत्र  '' .
A bank is a financial institution and a financial intermediary that accepts deposits and channels those  जमा   into  lending activities , either directly by  loaning  or indirectly through  पूंजी  markets .
A bank is the connection between  ग्राहक  that have capital deficits  और  customers with capital  surpluses   .
Due to  उनके  influence within a financial system  और   an  economy ,  बैंको  are generally highly  regulated  in  सबसे  countries .
Most banks  operate  under a system known as fractional reserve banking where they hold  तभी   a  small reserve  of  the  निधि  deposited and lend out the rest  लिये  profit .
They are generally subject to minimum  पूंजी   आवश्यकताएँ  which are based on an international set of capital standards , known as the Basel  accords  .
The oldest bank still in  अस्तित्व  is Monte  देई  Paschi di  सियेना  ,  headquartered  in Siena  ,  Italy ,  जिससे  has been operating continuously since 1472 .
It is followed by Berenberg Bank  of  Hamburg  (  1590 ) and Sveriges  riksbank  of Sweden  (  1668 ) .
Banking in its modern  भाव  evolved  in   समृद्ध  cities of Renaissance Italy , such  as  Florence ,  वेनिस   और  Genoa .
in  the history  of  banking , a number of banking dynasties —among them notably Medici , Fugger ,  welser  , Berenberg  ,  Baring and  रोथ्सचाइल्ड  —have played a  सेंट्रल  role  over  many centuries .
The Xbox  is  a video game console manufactured by  microsoft  .
It was released on November 15 , 2001  in  North America ,  फ़रवरी  22 , 2002 in Japan ,  और  March 14 , 2002 in Australia and Europe .
It was Microsoft 's first foray into the gaming console market .
As part  of  the sixth-generation of gaming , the Xbox competed with Sony 's PlayStation 2 , Sega 's  dreamcast  ( which  रोका  American sales before  the  Xbox went on sale ) , and Nintendo 's GameCube  .
The  एक्सबॉक्स  was the first console offered by an American company  बाद  the Atari Jaguar stopped  बिक्री   in  1996 .
The  एकीकृत  Xbox Live service launched in November 2002 allowed players  to  play games online with  a  broadband  कनेक्शन  .
It first competed  साथ  Dreamcast 's online service  लकिन  later  primarily  competed with  प्लेस्टेशन  2 's online  सेवा   .
Although  ये   दो   हैं  free while  एक्सबॉक्स   सजीव  required a subscription , as well as broadband-only connection which was not completely  अपनाया  yet , Xbox Live  थी  a  कामयाबी  due to better servers , features such as a buddy list , and milestone titles like Halo 2 released in  नवम्बर   2004   ,   जिससे  is the best-selling  एक्सबॉक्स   वीडियो   खेल  and  थी  by far  the  most popular online game for  सालो   .
एक्सबॉक्स   's  successor , the Xbox 360 ,  थी  launched in November  2005  .
the  Xbox was discontinued in  लेट  2005 in Japan where sales were poor .
It was discontinued in  लेट  2006 in Europe and early 2007  in  North  अमेरिका  .
The last  एक्सबॉक्स  game  in  Europe was Tony  हॉक  's Project 8 released in November 2006  ,  and the last game  in  North America was Madden NFL  09  released  in   अगस्त  2008  .
Support  लिये  out-of-warranty Xbox consoles  थी  discontinued on March  2   ,  2009 , stating that any  in-warranty  repair now needed will  नहीं  be undertaken  .
Xbox access to Xbox Live was stopped on  अप्रैल  15 , 2010 .
The Gospel According to John ( Greek τὸ  κατὰ  Ἰωάννην  εὐαγγέλιον   )  , commonly referred to  as  the Gospel of John or simply John and often referred to in New Testament scholarship as  the   चौथी  Gospel , is an account of  the   पब्लिक  ministry of Jesus .
It begins with the witness and affirmation by John the  बैपटिस्ट  and concludes with the death  ,   दफ़न   ,  resurrection , and post-resurrection appearances  of  Jesus .
इस   खाता  is fourth of the canonical gospels  ,   बाद  the synoptics Matthew , Mark and  ल्यूक  .
states that the book derives  इससे  the testimony of the ' disciple  जिसको  Jesus  loved  .  '
Along with Peter , the unnamed disciple is  विशेषकर   बंद   to  Jesus ,  और  early-church  परंपरा  identified  उसे  as John the  apostle  , one  of  Jesus '  बारह  Apostles .
The gospel is closely  सम्बन्धित  in style and content  to  the three surviving  epistles  of John such that commentators treat the  चार  books  साथ  , yet , according to  सबसे   आधुनिक  scholars , John was not the author  of  any  of   ये  books .
Recent Christian Scripture scholarship more and more  रै  placed John within a first-century Jewish context .
Raymond E. Brown did pioneering work  to  trace  the  development  of  the  परंपरा  from which the gospel arose .
The  प्रवचन  seem to  be  concerned with the actual issues of the church-and-synagogue debate at the time when the Gospel was written  .
It is notable that ,  in  the gospel ,  the   जातियाँ   स्टिल  appears to define itself primarily against Judaism , rather than as part  of  a wider Christian church .
Though  christianity  started as a  गति  within Judaism , gradually Christians and Jews  became  bitterly opposed .
John presents a  ``  higher '' Christology than the synoptics , meaning that it describes  यीशु  as the incarnation of the divine Logos through whom  सब  things were made , as the  ऑब्जेक्ट  of veneration ,  और   अधिक   explicitly  as God  incarnate  .
तभी  in John does Jesus talk  at  length about himself and his divine role , often shared with the disciples only .
Against the synoptics , John  focuses  largely  on  different miracles ( including resurrecting  lazarus   )   ,  given as  लक्षण  meant to engender faith .
Synoptic elements such as parables  और  exorcisms are not found in John .
It presents a  एहसास  eschatology in which  मोक्ष  is already  उपस्थित  for the believer .
The Plagues of Egypt ( ) , also called the Ten Plagues ( ) or the Biblical  plagues  ,  यहूद   टेन  calamities that  ,   according   to  the biblical Book of  exodus  , Israel  's   परमेश्वर  , Yahweh , inflicted upon  मिश्र   to  persuade Pharaoh  to   रिलीज  the ill-treated Israelites from slavery .
pharaoh  capitulated after the tenth plague , triggering the Exodus of the Jewish  लोगों  .
the  plagues were designed to contrast  the  power  of  Yahweh  साथ  the  नपुंसकता  of Egypt 's various gods  .
Some  टीकाकारों  have  संबद्ध  several of the plagues with judgment on specific gods associated with the  nile  ,  प्रजनन  and  प्राकृतिक  phenomena .
The plagues of Egypt  हैं  also mentioned in the Quran ( 7,133–136 ) .
According to the Book of Exodus , God proclaims that  सब  the gods of  मिश्र  will be judged through the tenth and final plague:
John Martin 's painting of the plague of hail and fire ( 1823 ) .
A role-playing game (  आरपीजी   और  sometimes roleplaying game ) is a game in which players assume the roles of characters in a fictional setting .
Players take responsibility  लिये  acting out these roles within a narrative  ,  either through literal acting or  through  a  प्रक्रम  of structured decision-making  or  character development  .
Actions taken within many games succeed or fail according  to  a formal system of  नियम  and guidelines .
There are several forms of RPG .
The original form , sometimes called the tabletop RPG , is  conducted   through  discussion ,  whereas  in live action role-playing games  (  LARP ) players physically perform their  वर्ण  ' actions .
In both of these forms ,  an  arranger called a game master (  gm  ) usually decides on the  नियम  and setting to be  प्रयुक्त  and acts as referee , while  प्रत्येक  of the other players plays the  भूमिका  of a single character  .
Several varieties  of   आरपीजी  also  मौजूद   in  electronic media , such as  multi-player  text-based MUDs and their graphics-based  successors  , massively multiplayer online role-playing games ( MMORPGs  )  .
Role-playing  खेल  also include single-player  ऑफ़लाइन  role-playing video games in which players control a character or team who undertake quests , and may include capabilities that advance using statistical mechanics .
These games often share  जमावट  and rules  साथ  tabletop RPGs ,  लकिन  emphasize  अक्षर   उन्नति  more than collaborative storytelling  .
Despite this variety of forms , some game forms such as trading  कार्ड  games and wargames that  हैं   सम्बन्धित  to role-playing games  may  not  be  included .
role-playing   कार्यकलाप  may sometimes  be  present in such games , but it is not the primary  फ़ोकस  .
the  term  is  also sometimes used to describe roleplay simulation games and exercises used in teaching ,  प्रशिक्षण  , and academic research  .
The  अमरीकी  Civil War ( ACW  )  , also known  as   the   युद्ध  between  the  States  or  simply the Civil War ( see naming )  ,  was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United  राज्य  ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' )  और   अनेक  Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the  confederate  States  of   अमेरिका  ( the `` Confederacy '' or the  ``  South '' ) .
the  war had  इसके  origin in the issue of slavery , especially the extension of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign powers did not intervene .
After four  सालो   of  bloody combat that  बाएँ  over 600,000 soldiers dead  और  destroyed  much   of  the South  's  infrastructure , the  confederacy  collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national  एकता  and guaranteeing rights  to  the freed slaves began .
In the  1860  presidential election  ,  Republicans , led  by  Abraham  lincoln   ,  opposed  expanding  slavery into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won  ,   लकिन  before his  उद्घाटन  on March 4 , 1861 , seven cotton-based  स्लेव  states  formed  the Confederacy .
Outgoing  लोकतांत्रिक   अध्यक्ष  James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave states  जारी   to  reject  काल्स  for secession .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts  भीतर  territory claimed  by  the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise ,  और   दोनो  sides prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on  ``  King Cotton `` that  वे  would intervene ; none  किया  and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began  on  April 12 , 1861 ,  जब  Confederate  शक्तियां  fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops  in  South Carolina .
lincoln  called for each  राज्य  to provide  सैनिकों  to retake the  फोर्ट  ; consequently ,  चार  more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their  कुल  to eleven .
The  संघ  soon controlled the border states  और   स्थापित  a naval blockade that  अबोध  the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater  थी  inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland (  a  Union  राज्य  ) ended with  confederate  retreat  at  the  बैटल  of  antietam   ,  dissuading  अंग्रेजों  intervention  .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation , which  बना  ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862  the  Union destroyed the Confederate  नदी  navy  ,  then much of their  पश्चिमी  armies  ,  and the Union at Vicksburg  विभाजित  the Confederacy in  दो  at the Mississippi River .
in  1863 ,  रॉबर्ट  E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to  ulysses  S. Grant command of all Union armies  in  1864 .
In the Western Theater  ,  William T. Sherman drove east to  कैप्चर  Atlanta and  marched  to the sea  ,  destroying Confederate infrastructure  साथ  the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower  to  attack the Confederacy from all directions , and  could  afford to fight  लड़ाइयों  of attrition  through   the   overland  Campaign  towards  Richmond , the Confederate capital  .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading  to  Lee 's surrender to Grant  at   appomattox  Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American  सिविल  War was one of the  earliest  true industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships , and  mass-produced  weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories ,  खानों  , shipyards , banks ,  परिवहन   और  food supplies all  foreshadowed  World War I .
It remains the deadliest war  in  American history , resulting in  the  deaths of an estimated 750,000  सैनिको  and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston  estimates  the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45  सालो  old , and 30 percent of  सब  Southern white  males  aged 18–40  .
The definition of  the   संसार  's busiest airport  रै  been specified by the Airports Council International in  जेनेवा  , Switzerland  .
The ACI defines and  उपायों  the  following  three types  of  airport  traffic:
Passenger traffic  :  total passengers emplaned and deplaned  ,  passengers in transit counted once
कार्गो  traffic : loaded  और  unloaded freight  और  mail in metric tonnes
Traffic movements : landings and take-offs  of   वायुयान
संसार  War I ( WWI )  थी  a global  युद्ध  centred in Europe that began on 28 July  1914  and lasted until 11 November 1918  .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its  occurrence  until the start of  संसार  War II in 1939 , and the  पहला  World War  or  World War I thereafter .
it  involved  सब  the world  's  great powers , which  यहूद   समवेत  in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based  on  the  ट्रिपल  Entente of  the  United Kingdom , France and  रूस  ) and  the  Central Powers (  originally  the Triple Alliance of Germany  ,  Austria-Hungary and  इटली   ;  but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the  अनुबंध  ,  इटली  did  नहीं  enter into the war ) .
ये  alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States joined  the  Allies ,  और  the Ottoman Empire and  बुल्गारिया   the   सेंट्रल  Powers .
Ultimately , more than  70   लाख  military personnel , including 60 million Europeans , were mobilised  in  one  of  the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed , largely because of technological advancements  कि  led to enormous  increases   in  the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility  .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history  ,  subsequently paving the way  लिये   विभिन्न   राजनैतिक  changes ,  ऐसे  as  revolutions  in  अनेक  of the nations  शामिल  .
One of the long-term  कल्याणकारी  of the war was the  पुनरुत्थान  of imperialism in  the  foreign  नीतियों  of the  ग्रेट   शक्तियां  of Europe .
More immediately  ,   the  assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne  of   austria-hungary  , on 28 June  1914  by  यूगोस्लाव   राष्ट्रवादी  Gavrilo Princip in  साराजेवो  triggered  a  diplomatic  संकट  when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to  the  Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed  over  the previous  दशकों   यहूद  invoked .
भीतर  weeks , the major powers were at war and , via their colonies  ,  the conflict soon spread  around   the   संसार  .
on  28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the  पहला  shots of the war as  तैयारी  for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised ,  the  Germans invaded  न्यूट्रल  Belgium and  ध्वज   on   the  way to France , providing a  casus  belli for Britain  's  declaration of war against Germany .
After the German  कूच  on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static  बैटल  of attrition with a trench line that  बदला  little until  1917  .
On the  पूर्वी  Front , the Russian army  थी  successful against  the  Austro-Hungarians , but was  रोका  in its  आक्रमण  of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war , opening up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy  और  Bulgaria went  to   युद्ध  in  1915  and Romania in 1916  .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed  in  March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in  नवम्बर  brought  the   russians   to  terms with  the  Central Powers .
After a  1918  German offensive along the western front ,  the  Allies drove back the Germans in  a  series of successful offensives and  अमरीकी  forces  began  entering  the   trenches  .
Germany , which  था  its own  ट्रबल  with revolutionaries , agreed to  an  armistice on 11 November  1918   .
The war ended in  विजय  for  the   allies  .
Events on  the  home fronts were as tumultuous  as  on the battle fronts ,  as  the participants  आजमाया  to mobilize their  जनशक्ति  and economic  संसाधन  to fight a total war .
by  the end of the war , four major imperial  powers—the   जर्मनी  , Russian  ,  Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to  मौजूद  .
The successor  राज्य  of the  पूर्व  two lost a great  राशि  of  territory  ,  जबकि  the latter two  यहूद  dismantled entirely  .
The map of central Europe was  redrawn  into several smaller states .
The  लीग  of Nations  थी  formed in the  आशा  of preventing another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war  और  the breakup  of  empires , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems  साथ   the  Treaty of Versailles  हैं   सहमत   to  be factors contributing to  संसार  War II  .
The Deepwater Horizon  आयल   spill  ( also referred  to  as the BP oil spill ,  the  BP oil  विपत्ति  , the Gulf of Mexico  आयल  spill ,  और  the Macondo  blowout  ) was  an  oil  spill  in the Gulf of Mexico on the BP -operated Macondo Prospect , considered the largest accidental marine  आयल  spill in  the  history of  the  petroleum  उद्योग  ,  अनुमानित   to  be  between  8 % and 31 % larger in volume  than  the earlier Ixtoc I oil  spill  .
Following the explosion  और  sinking  of  the  deepwater  Horizon oil  रिग   ,  which  claimed  11 lives , a sea-floor oil gusher flowed  unabated  for 87 days , until it was capped on 15 July 2010  .
The  कुल  discharge is estimated at .
A massive response  ensued   to   protect  beaches , wetlands and estuaries from  the   spreading  oil utilizing skimmer ships  ,  floating  booms  , controlled burns  और  of Corexit oil dispersant .
After several failed efforts to  contain  the flow ,  the  well was declared sealed on 19 September 2010 .
Some reports indicate the well site continues to leak .
Due  to  the months-long spill , along with  प्रतिकूल  effects from the  जवाब  and  क्लीनअप  activities  ,  extensive damage to marine  और   वन्यजीव  habitats , fishing  और  tourism  उद्योग  ,  और  human health problems have continued through 2013.Three years after the spill , tar balls could still be found on the Mississippi coast  .
Numerous investigations explored the causes  of  the explosion and record-setting spill .
Notably  ,  the U.S. government 's September 2011 report  pointed  to defective cement on the well  ,  faulting mostly BP , but also well operator Transocean  और  contractor Halliburton .
पहले  in 2011 , a White House commission likewise blamed  bp  and  इसके  partners for a  श्रेणी   of  cost-cutting  निर्णय  and an insufficient  सुरक्षा  system ,  लकिन  also  concluded  that the spill resulted  इससे   ``  systemic  ''  root causes and `` absent significant  सुधार  in  दोनो  industry practices  और  government policies  ,  might well recur ''  .
In November 2012 , BP and the United States  विभाग  of Justice settled federal  दण्ड  charges with BP pleading guilty to 11  रिश्तो  of manslaughter , two misdemeanors , and a felony  गिनती  of lying to Congress .
bp  also agreed to four years of government monitoring of its  सुरक्षा   practices  and ethics , and  the  Environmental Protection Agency announced that BP would be temporarily banned  इससे  new contracts with the US  सरकारी  .
BP and the Department of Justice agreed to a record-setting $  4.525  billion in  जुर्माना  and other payments but further legal proceedings not expected to conclude  जबतक  2014 are ongoing to determine payouts and fines  अंतर्गत   the  Clean Water Act and the Natural  संसाधन  Damage Assessment  .
As of February 2013 ,  दण्ड  and  सिविल   settlements  and payments to a trust fund had cost the  कम्पनी  $ 42.2  अरब  .
`` Where  the  Streets Have  no  Name '' is a song by rock  बैंड  U2 .
It is the  खोलने  track from  उनके  1987 album The Joshua Tree and was released as  the  album 's third single in August 1987 .
the  song 's hook is a repeating  गिटार  arpeggio using a delay effect  ,  played  दौरान  the  सोंग   's  introduction and again  at   the   समाप्त  .
सीसे  vocalist  बोनो  wrote the lyrics in response to the  ख़्याल  that it is possible to  पहचानो  a person  's  religion and income based on the street on which they  जिया   ,  particularly in Belfast .
During the band 's difficulties recording the  सोंग  ,  निर्माता   ब्रायन  Eno considered erasing the  सोंग  's tapes to have them start from  खरोंच  .
`` Where the Streets Have No Name ''  थी   praised   by  critics and became a commercial success , peaking  at  number  तेरह  in  the  US ,  क्रमांक  fourteen in Canada  ,  number ten in the Netherlands , and number  चार  in the United  किंगडम   .
The song has  become  one  of  the band  's  most popular songs and has remained a staple of their live act since the song debuted in 1987 on The Joshua Tree  दौरे   .
The  सोंग  was  notably  performed on a Los Angeles rooftop  लिये  the filming  of   इसके  music video , which won a Grammy Award for Best Performance Music Video .Recently  the  song  रै   महरूम  used by the NFL 's  बाल्टीमोर  Ravens  as  their entrance song in Super Bowl XLVII
Thomas Jeffrey `` Tom  ''  Hanks ( born July 9 , 1956 ) is an  अमरीकी   कर्ता  , producer , writer ,  और   निदेशक  .
Hanks is known for his roles in Apollo  13  , Big , That  बात  You Do !
, The Green Mile , You 've Got Mail , Sleepless in Seattle , Charlie Wilson 's War , Catch Me If You Can  ,  Forrest Gump , Cast Away , A League  of   उनके  Own  ,  The Da  विंची  Code  ,  Angels & Demons ,  as  well as  एनिमेटेड  films  जैसे  the Toy Story film  श्रेणी  , The Polar Express , and The  सिम्पसन्स  Movie .
He  रै  earned  और  been  मनोनीत  for  numerous  awards  दौरान  his career ,  सहित  winning a Golden Globe for Best Actor and an Academy  पुरस्कार  for  बेहतरीन   कर्ता   लिये  his role  in  Philadelphia and a Golden Globe , an  अकादमी  Award , a Screen Actors  गिल्ड  Award ,  और  a People 's Choice Award  लिये  Best Actor  लिये  his role in Forrest Gump ,  और  earning  the   स्टेनली  Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence  in  Film from the BAFTAs  in  2004 .
Hanks is  भी  known for his collaboration with film director Steven Spielberg on Saving Private Ryan and the mini-series Band of  भाइयो  , which launched  हैंक्स  also  as  a successful  निदेशक  , producer and  लेखक  .
As of 2012  ,  Hanks ' films have grossed over  $  4.2 billion at  the  United States box office  अलोन   ,   और  over  $  8.5  अरब  worldwide making him the highest all-time  बक्सा  office  स्टार  .
The Cape is an  अमरीकी  superhero drama series .
it  premiered on NBC during  the   2010–2011  television season  as  a  mid-season  replacement  शुरूआत  with a two-hour pilot  एपीसोड  on Sunday , January 9 ,  2011  at  9  pm Eastern and  प्रशांत   समय  .
An encore played on Monday , January 10 ,  साथ   follow-up  episodes continuing on Monday evenings  in  the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January 17 .
NBC subsequently  काटें  the  कुल  number  of  episodes to be  aired  from 13 to  10  as a result of low ratings .
On March  2   ,  2011 , NBC announced  कि  the series finale would only be aired on the network 's  जालस्थल  .
हैली  's Comet or Comet Halley ( or  )  , officially designated 1P/Halley , is the best-known of the short-period comets  और  is visible from Earth every 75–76 years  .
Halley  is   the  only short-period  धूमकेतु   कि   is   clearly  visible to the naked eye from Earth ,  और  thus the  तभी  naked-eye comet that might appear  twice   in  a human lifetime .
Other  naked-eye  comets may be brighter  और  more spectacular  ,   लकिन   होगा  appear only  एकबार  in thousands of years .
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System have been observed and recorded by astronomers  चूंकि  at least 240  bce  .
साफ  records  of  the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese  ,  Babylonian ,  और  medieval European chroniclers  ,  but were  नहीं  recognized  as   reappearances   of   the   वही  object at the time .
The comet  's  periodicity was  पहला  determined in 1705 by  अंग्रेज़ी   astronomer  Edmond Halley  ,  after  जिसको  it is now named .
Halley 's Comet last  appeared  in the inner Solar  प्रणाली  in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061 .
During its  1986   apparition  , Halley became the first comet to be observed  in  detail by spacecraft  ,  providing the first  observational  data  on  the structure  of  a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail  गठन   .
ये  observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about  धूमकेतु  construction , particularly Fred  whipple   's  `` dirty snowball '' model ,  जिससे  correctly predicted that Halley would be  रचित  of a  मिश्रण  of volatile  ices   –   ऐसे  as water , carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust .
The missions  भी   provided  data  जिससे  substantially  reformed   और  reconfigured these  विचार   ;   लिये  instance  it  is  अभी   समझा  that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty , non-volatile materials , and  कि  only a small  portion  of it is icy .
The following is a list of the  सबसे  populous incorporated places of the United States of  अमेरिका  .
As defined  by  the United States  जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau  ,  an `` incorporated place `` includes a variety of designations , including  नगर  ,  कस्बा  , village  ,  borough , and  नगरपालिका   .
A few  असाधारण  Census Designated Places (  cdps  )  हैं  also included in the Census  ब्यूरो  's listing of incorporated places .
संचित   city-counties   represent  a distinct type  of   सरकारी  that includes the  संपूर्ण  population  of  a  काउंटी  , or county equivalent .
Some consolidated city-counties ,  however  , include multiple  incorporated  places .
This list presents only  कि  portion ( or `` balance  ''  ) of such consolidated city-counties that are not a part of another incorporated place .
Note that this list refers only to the  जनसांख्यिकी  of individual municipalities within their defined limits , which does not include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban  क्षेत्रों  within urban agglomerations  .
a  different ranking is evident  जब   considering  U.S. metropolitan area populations  .
the   mayflower  was the  जलयान  that  in  1620  transported   102   अंग्रेज़ी  Pilgrims , including  a  core group of Separatists , to New England .
Their story is one of travail  और  survival in a harsh New  संसार  environment .
A New  जीलैंड  forward ( in white  )   takes   a  shot on  लक्ष्य  against Cameroon in  the  2011 FIFA U-20 World  कप  .
Forwards , also known as strikers ,  हैं  the players  on   a  team in  संघ  football who play nearest to the opposing team 's goal , and are therefore principally  जिम्मेदार  for scoring goals .
This very advanced position and  इसके  limited defensive responsibilities mean forwards normally score more  लक्ष्य   than  other players .
This  स्थिति   requires  intelligence  ,   गति  , and power , both of  निष्पादन  and of thought , to perform the role well .
Modern team  formations  usually include one to  तीन  forwards ; two is the  सबसे  common .
Coaches typically field one striker who  plays  in an advanced position  (  the centre forward  )  , and another attacking forward who plays somewhat deeper and assists  in  making goals as well as  स्कोरिंग   (  the second  स्ट्राइकर  ) .
It  चाहिए  be noted  कि  inside forwards develop from attacking midfield positions and hence are naturally midfielders .
बार्सिलोना  FC star Lionel Messi  is   a  typical Attacking Midfielder seen as  a  forward due  to  his shot accuracy .
A  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  domestic  साझेदारी  is a legal relationship  उपलब्धियाँ  to  same-sex  couples , and to certain  opposite-sex  couples  in  which at least one  पार्टी  is  at  least 18 years  of   आयु  .
It affords the couple `` the same rights , protections  ,   और  benefits , and  ...  the same responsibilities , obligations , and duties under law ... '' as married spouses .
Enacted in  1999   ,  the domestic partnership registry was the  पहला  of its kind in the United States  निर्मित   by  a legislature  बगैर  court intervention .
Initially  ,  domestic partnerships enjoyed very few privileges—principally  बस  hospital-visitation rights and the right to be  claimed  as a next of kin of  the   एस्टेट   of   a  deceased partner .
The legislature has since expanded the scope of California domestic partnerships to include  सब   of   the  rights and responsibilities common  to  marriage .
As  ऐसे  , California domestic partnerships are functionally  समतुल्य  to civil unions offered in several  अन्य  states .
Although  the  program enjoys  व्यापक  support  in  California ,  it  has  महरूम  the source of some controversy .
Groups opposed to  the   मान्यता  of same-sex families have challenged  the  expansion of domestic  partnerships  in  अदालत   .
Conversely ,  अधिवक्ताओं  of  same-sex   विवाह   contend   कि  anything less  than   पूरा  marriage rights  विस्तारित  to  same-sex  partners is analogous to the  ``  separate but equal '' racial laws of the Jim Crow era .
Mark  A.   जैक्सन  ( born April 1  ,   1965  ) is an  अमरीकी  basketball coach  ,  and former player  जो  is the current head coach of the Golden State Warriors of  the   एनबीए  .
a  point  गार्ड  from St. John 's University  ,  he  निभाई  for the New York Knicks , Indiana Pacers , Los Angeles Clippers  ,  Denver Nuggets , Toronto Raptors , Utah Jazz and  ह्यूस्टन  Rockets in the NBA in a career spanning from 1987 to 2004 .
जैक्सन  has also worked as  a  commentator for ESPN  और  ABC alongside his former coach  जेफ़  Van Gundy and play-by-play man Mike Breen .
He was previously an  एनबीए  analyst for  the   यस  Network 's New Jersey Nets games .
South  अफ़्रीकी  has eleven official languages  :  Afrikaans , English  ,   ndebele   ,  Northern Sotho , Sotho , Swazi , Tswana  ,   सोंगा  , Venda , Xhosa and Zulu  .
Fewer than two percent of South  africans  speak a first language other than an official  एक  .
सबसे   दक्षिण  Africans can  बोलो  more  than  one  भाषा  .
Dutch and English were the first  आधिकारिक  languages of South Africa from 1910 to  1925  .
Afrikaans was  added  as a part of Dutch in 1925 .
Dutch was replaced by Afrikaans  जब   दक्षिण   अफ़्रीकी  became a  गणतंत्र   in  1961 ,  और  Dutch was  dropped  in 1983  ,  so between 1983 and 1994 , South Africa had two  आधिकारिक  languages : English and Afrikaans .
the  English  संस्करण  of the South African constitution refers to the  भाषाएं  by the names in those languages : isiZulu , isiXhosa , Afrikaans , Sepedi ( referring  to  Northern Sotho  )  , Setswana ,  अंग्रेज़ी  , Sesotho (  referring  to Southern Sotho ) , Xitsonga , Siswati  ,   tshivenda  and isiNdebele ( referring to Southern Ndebele ) .
In South Africa , Southern  ndebele   is   ज्ञात  simply  as  Ndebele , as most  अध्यक्षों  of Northern Ndebele live  in  Zimbabwe .
The 1993 version of the Constitution  referred  to Northern Sotho as Sesotho sa Leboa , but the 1996 version  referred  to the language as Sepedi .
Different government departments and  आधिकारिक  bodies use different terms to denote Northern  sotho  .
The main language of government  is   अंग्रेज़ी  even if  दक्षिण  Africans often  लो  pride in using indigenous languages for any purpose .
अफ्रीकी  also features prominently in commerce  साथ   साथ   अंग्रेज़ी  as  the  languages with the highest number  of  fluent speakers are  अफ्रीकी  and English .
in  terms of linguistic  वर्गीकरण   ,  the  आधिकारिक  languages include two West-Germanic languages ( English and Afrikaans ) and  नौ  Bantu languages .
Four of these are Nguni languages (  ज़ुलू  , Xhosa  ,  Swati and Ndebele  )   और  three are Sotho–Tswana languages ( Northern  sotho  , Southern Sotho and Tswana ) .
Tsonga is a  tswa–ronga  language .
दक्षिण  African Sign  भाषा  is a distinct though incompletely emerged national  मानक  language which also subsumes a cluster of  semi-standardised   dialects   .
Aluminium nitrate is a  नमक  of aluminium and  नाइट्रिक  acid , existing  सामान्यतः  as a  crystalline  hydrate , most commonly  as  aluminium nitrate nonahydrate  ,   al  ( NO3  )  3·9H2O .
The New  यॉर्क   jets  are a professional football team headquartered in Florham Park ,  नई  Jersey , representing the New York  महानगर  area .
The team is a member of  the   पूर्वी  Division of  the  American Football Conference ( AFC  )  in the National Football League ( NFL )  .
In a unique arrangement for the league , the Jets share MetLife  स्टेडियम  in  ईस्ट   रदरफोर्ड  , New Jersey with the New York Giants .
The franchise is legally and corporately registered  as  New York  jets  , LLC  .
The team was  संस्थापित  in 1959 as the  टाइटन्स  of  नई  York ,  an  original member of the American Football  लीग  ; later , the franchise joined the NFL in the AFL–NFL  विलय  .
the  team began to play  in   1960  at  the  Polo Grounds .
Under  नई  ownership , the current name  थी  adopted  in  1963 and the franchise was relocated  to   shea  Stadium  in  1964 and then to the Meadowlands Sports  जटिल  in 1984 .
The Jets advanced to the playoffs for the first  समय  in 1968  और  went on to compete in Super Bowl III  जहाँ  they defeated the Baltimore  कोल्टस  , becoming the first AFL  टोली  to  शिकस्त  an  एनएफएल  club  in  an AFL-NFL World Championship  खेल  .
Since 1968  ,  the  jets   have  appeared in the playoffs thirteen times , and in the  afc  Championship  खेल  four times  ,  most recently losing to the Pittsburgh Steelers in 2010 .
However , the Jets have never returned  to  the Super Bowl  ,   बनाना  them  एक  of three  एनएफएल  teams  to  win their lone Super  कटोरी  appearance ,  साथ   साथ  the New  ऑरलियन्स  Saints and Tampa Bay Buccaneers .
The  टोली  's  प्रशिक्षण  facility ,  अटलांटिक  Health Jets  प्रशिक्षण   बीच  , which opened in  2008  , is located in Florham Park .
The team  फिलहाल  holds their  सालाना  training camp sessions on  the  campus of the State University of New York at Cortland  in  Cortland ,  नई   यॉर्क  while holding occasional sessions  at  the Florham Park  जटिल  .
Psilocybe semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms ,  भी  known as psychedelic mushrooms , are  fungi   कि   contain  psychoactive indole  alkaloids  .
There  हैं   अनेक  colloquial terms for psilocybin  मशरूम   ,  the most common being shrooms  और  magic mushrooms .
biological  genera containing psilocybin  मशरूम  include  agrocybe   ,  Conocybe , Copelandia ,  galerina  , Gerronema , Gymnopilus , Hypholoma ,  inocybe  , Mycena , Panaeolus , Pluteus ,  और  Psilocybe .
There are  लगभग   190  species  of  psilocybin  मशरूम  and most of them fall in the genus Psilocybe .
Psilocybin  मशरूम   have  likely  महरूम  used since  प्रागैतिहासिक   टाइम्स  and  may  have been depicted in rock art  .
अनेक  cultures have  प्रयुक्त  these mushrooms  in  religious rites .
In modern Western society  वे  are used recreationally for their  साइकेडेलिक  effects .
हाल   अध्ययन   किया  at Imperial College  लंदन   और  Johns Hopkins School of Medicine conclude that when used properly , psilocybin acts  as  an anti-depressant as suggested  by   fmri  brain scans .
Alaska ( ) is a state  in  the United  राज्य  ,  situated  in the northwest extremity  of  the North American continent ,  साथ  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  boundary with  कनाडा  to the east , the Arctic Ocean to the north , and  the  Pacific Ocean to the west and south , with Russia further west  आरपार  the Bering Strait .
Alaska is the  largest  state in  the  United States  by  area , the 4th least populous and the least densely  आबादी  of  the  50 United States  .
Approximately half  of  Alaska 's 731,449 residents  सजीव  within the Anchorage metropolitan area .
अलास्का  's economy is dominated by the oil , natural gas , and fishing industries ; it has  ये  resources  in  abundance .
अलास्का  was purchased from Russia on  कूच  30 , 1867 ,  लिये   $  7.2 million  (  $ adjusted for inflation ) at approximately  दो  cents per acre  (   $  4.74/km2 ) .
The land went through several  प्रशासनिक  changes before becoming an  व्यवस्थित  ( or incorporated  )  territory on May 11 , 1912 , and the 49th state of  the  U.S. on January 3 ,  1959   .
The  नाम  `` Alaska  ''  ( Аляска ) was already introduced in  the   रूसी  colonial period , when it was  प्रयुक्त  only  लिये  the peninsula and  is  derived  इससे  the Aleut alaxsxaq , meaning `` the mainland '' or , more literally , `` the object towards which the action of  the  sea  is  directed '' .
it  is also known  as  Alyeska , the `` great land ''  ,   an  Aleut word derived from  the  same root  .
The  101   फ्रेंच  departments are  विभाजित   into  342 arrondissements , which may be translated into English as  जिले  .
The capital of an arrondissement/district is called a subprefecture .
When an arrondissement contains the prefecture ( capital ) of the department , that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement  ,  acting  दोनो  as a prefecture  और  as a subprefecture .
Arrondissements are further divided into cantons and communes .
The vagina  (  from Latin vāgīna , literally `` sheath '' or  ``  scabbard `` ) is a tubular  ट्रैक्ट   जिससे   is  a sex organ and has two main functions ; sexual intercourse and childbirth .
in   इंसानो  , this passage leads from the  खोलने   of  the  भग  to the uterus ( womb ) ,  लकिन  the vaginal tract ends at the cervix .
Unlike men , who have  तभी  one genital  orifice  ,  महिलाओं   have   दो  , the urethra and the vagina .
The  vaginal  opening is  much   larger   than  the urethral opening  ,   और  both openings are protected by  the  labia .
The inner  सांचे  of the vagina has a foldy texture which can create friction for  the  penis during intercourse .
During arousal ,  the  vagina gets moist to facilitate the entrance of the penis .
The Latinate  बहुवचन  `` vaginae  ''  is  rarely  used in  अंग्रेज़ी  .
Colloquially  ,  the word vagina is often  प्रयुक्त  to refer to the vulva or to the female genitals in general .
However  ,  by its  शब्दकोष  and anatomical definitions ,  योनि  refers exclusively to the specific internal structure .
The  सिनसिनाटी   लाल  are a Major  लीग   बेसबॉल  team based in Cincinnati  ,   ओहियो  .
They  हैं   सदस्यों   of  the National League Central Division .
स्थापित  in 1881 as  an  independent club , the team became  a  charter member of the American  संघ  in 1882 , and joined the  नेशनल  League in 1890 .
The club traditionally traces its origin  to  baseball 's first openly  पेशेवर   टोली   in  1869 .
The Reds have won five World Series titles , one American Association pennant , nine National League pennants and ten division titles .
the  Reds played  in   the  National League West between 1969 and  1993   और  have  महरूम  in the  नेशनल  League Central since 1994 .
चूंकि  2003 , the Reds  have  played  at  Great American Ball Park , built next  to  their home  इससे  1970 to 2002  ,  Riverfront Stadium  .
Bob Castellini has owned the Cincinnati Reds since 2006 .
A prank  बदबू  bomb .
a  stink bomb is a device designed to create an unpleasant smell .
They range  in  effectiveness from simple pranks to military grade malodorants or riot control chemical agents .
The Guinness Book of  रिकॉर्ड  lists two smelliest  substances  .
One is  ``   us  Government Standard  बाथरूम  Malodor '' ; a mixture of eight chemicals with a stench resembling human feces  ,  only much stronger , designed to test  the  efficacy of deodorizers and  एयर  fresheners .
Another one , `` Who me ?  ``  , is a mixture of  पाँच  sulfur-containing chemicals  और   खुश्बू  like rotting food  और   carcasses  .
The adage  ``  A picture is worth a thousand words '' refers to the notion that a complex  विचार  can be conveyed with  बस  a single still image .
It also aptly characterizes one of the main goals of visualization , namely  बनाना  it possible to  अवशोषित   विशाल   amounts  of data quickly .
The expression  ``  Use a picture .
It  's  worth a  हजार  words  .  '' appears in a 1911 newspaper article quoting newspaper editor Arthur Brisbane discussing  पत्रकारिता  and publicity .
1913 newspaper advertisement
A similar phrase , ``  एक  Look Is Worth A Thousand  शब्द  ''  ,  appears in  a  1913 newspaper advertisement for the Piqua Auto Supply House of  piqua  ,  ओहियो  .
An  जल्दी  use of the  सटीक  phrase appears  in  an 1918  समाचारपत्र  advertisement for the San Antonio Light  जिससे   says  : One of the Nation 's Greatest Editors  says  : One  चित्र   is   लायक   a  Thousand Words The  सैन  Antonio  लाइट   's  Pictorial Magazine of the War Exemplifies the  सच्चाई  of the above statement --  judging  from the warm reception it has received at the hands of the Sunday Light  पाठक  .
it  is  believed  by  कुछ  that the modern use of the phrase stems from  an   आलेख  by Fred R. Barnard in the advertising trade journal Printers  '  Ink ,  promoting  the use  of  images  in   विज्ञापन  that appeared on the sides  of  streetcars .
The  दिसम्बर   8   ,  1921 issue carries  an  ad  हकदार  , `` One Look is  लायक  A Thousand Words . ''
Another ad by Barnard  appears   in  the March 10 , 1927 issue with  the  phrase `` One  चित्र  Worth Ten  हजार  Words  ,  '' where it is labeled a  चाइनीज  proverb ( 一圖勝萬言 ) .
the  Home Book of Proverbs  ,  Maxims , and Familiar  वाक्यांश  quotes Barnard as saying he called it ``  a  Chinese proverb ,  so  that people would  लो   it  seriously .  ''
Soon after  ,  the proverb would  become  popularly attributed to  कन्फ्यूशियस   .
the  discussion of  ``  One Picture Worth Thousand Words '' versus `` One Picture Worth Ten Thousand Words ''  wan  yen I hua and 10.000 miles  लायक  10.000 books is cited  in  Information graphics  जहाँ  the concept of many in different disciplines  और  cultures .
A  चित्र  is worth a  हजार   शब्द
Despite  इस  modern  उत्पत्ति  of the popular phrase  ,  the sentiment has been expressed by earlier writers .
For example the Russian  लेखक  Ivan Turgenev  लिखा  (  in  Fathers and Sons in 1862 )  ,  `` A  चित्र  shows me at  a  glance what it takes dozens of pages of a  किताब  to expound  .  ''
Computer  प्रोग्रामर  and author Fred Brooks  makes  an opposite statement  regarding  programming in The Mythical Man-Month : `` Show me your flowcharts and conceal your tables ,  और  I  shall  continue to be  mystified  .
Show me  अपना   टेबल  , and I won’t usually need your flowcharts ;  they’ll   be  obvious .  ''
The phrase has also been spoofed by John McCarthy ,  the   प्रसिद्ध  computer scientist , to make the  विपरीत  point  :  `` As the  चाइनीज  say , 1001 words  is  worth  अधिक  than a  चित्र   .  ''
A season is a subdivision of the  साल  , marked  by  changes in weather  ,   पारिस्थितिकी  , and  घंटों  of daylight .
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the Earth around the Sun and the  झुकाव   of  the Earth 's  अक्ष   सापेक्ष  to  the  plane of revolution  .
In temperate and polar  regions  ,  the   सीज़न   हैं  marked by changes in the intensity  of  sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface , variations of which  may  cause animals to go into  शीतनिष्क्रियता   or  to migrate , and plants to be  dormant  .
During May ,  जून   और  July , the northern hemisphere is  उजागर  to more  सीधा  sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun .
the  same is true of the southern hemisphere  in  November , December  और  January .
It is  the  tilt of the Earth  कि  causes the Sun to be higher in the  आसमान   दौरान  the summer months  जिससे  increases the solar flux .
However , due to seasonal  lag  , June , July and August  हैं  the hottest months in the  उत्तरी  hemisphere and December  ,  January  और  February are the hottest months  in  the southern hemisphere  .
In  शीतोष्ण  and  subpolar  regions ,  generally  four calendar  -आधारd  seasons (  साथ  their adjectives ) are  पहचाना  :  वसन्त  ( vernal ) , summer (  estival   )  , autumn  (  autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ) .
However ,  ecologists   ज़्यादातर   उपयोग  a six season model  लिये  temperate climate regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with  the  traditional four .
Hot regions have two or three  सीज़न  ; the rainy ( or wet , or monsoon ) season and the dry season , and in some  तीव्र  areas , a cool or mild  ऋतु  .
In some  भाग  of the  संसार   ,  special `` seasons ''  हैं  loosely defined based on important  कार्यक्रम   ऐसे  as a hurricane season , tornado season or a  दावानल  season  .
The six ecological  सीज़न
The four calendar seasons ,  चित्रित  in an ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
Dutch exports in 2006
At  the   समय   of  writing the Netherlands is the 17th largest economy  of  the world .
( see :  सूची  of countries  by  GDP ( nominal )  )
GDP per capita is roughly  $  42,000 which  puts  it in the top 10 of  richest  nations in the world (  देखिए   :  List of countries by GDP ( PPP  )  per capita ) .
Between  1996  and 2000  सालाना   आर्थिक  growth ( GDP ) averaged over 4 % , well  ऊपर  the European average .
Growth  slowed  considerably in 2001-05 as part of the global economic slowdown .
2006  और  2007 however  दिखाया   आर्थिक  growth  of  3.4 % and 3.9  %  .
the  Dutch economy was hit considerably by the  जारी  global financial crisis and the ensuing European debt crisis .
Several banks went bankrupt , and a number of others had to receive governmental aid .
In 2009 the economy declined with 3.5  %  , followed by two years of mild growth  .
The  डच   अर्थव्यवस्था   is  currently in a recession again , with an economic decline of 0.5 % in 2012 .
Inflation is at 3.2 % in  फ़रवरी   2013  .
बेरोजगारी  has been  अपेक्षाकृत   कम  compared to other EU nations for decades but after mid-2012 it has seen a fast increase and in February  2013  it  रै  hit 7.7 % .
The Netherlands managed to maintain its AAA rating at  तनिक  until March 2013 according to  the  three major  क्रेडिट   दरजा  agencies .
Historically  ,   the  Dutch introduced and invented the  भण्डार  market by the merchandise trading  through   डच  West  इण्डिया  Company .
The Netherlands is  a  founding member of the European Union , the OECD and the World Trade Organization .
Loyal to the  खेल   is   the   दसवाँ  studio album and sixth studio album by Tupac Shakur .
It contains  remixes  of  previously  unreleased music recorded by Shakur before his death  in   1996   .
Released in  the  United  राज्य   on   दिसम्बर  14 , 2004  (  December 12 in the United Kingdom ) , Loyal  to  the Game was  उत्पादित  by  एमिनेम   .
the  original panel of  the  View ; Meredith Vieira , Star  जोन्स  , Debbie Matenopoulos and Barbara Walters in 1997 .
The View is  an   अमरीकी  talk show  ब्रॉडकास्ट  on ABC that debuted in 1997  as   भाग  of the network 's daytime  प्रोग्रामिंग  block .
निर्मित   by  Barbara Walters and  विधेयक  Geddie , who both also  serve  as the show 's executive producers , the program features a panel of women  as   co-hosts  .
Along with Walters , the  वर्तमान  panel  शामिल  Whoopi Goldberg , who  serves  as the  मॉडरेटर  , Joy Behar  ,  Elisabeth Hasselbeck , and  sherri  Shepherd .
International versions of the  कार्यक्रम  are aired in several countries .
as  of the 2012–13  ऋतु  , its 16th , The View is  the  fourth-longest  कार्यशील  national daytime talk show  in  history ,  पीछे  The Phil  donahue  Show ( 29 )  ,  the  variously-named  Live !
programs ( 25  )  ,  और  The Oprah Winfrey Show ( 25  )  .
Prunus virginiana , commonly called bitter-berry , chokecherry , Virginia bird  चेरी  and western chokecherry ( also black  chokecherry  for P.  virginiana  var . demissa  )  , is  a   प्रजाति  of bird cherry  (  Prunus  subgenus  Padus ) native to  उत्तर   अमेरिका   ;  the natural  ऐतिहासिक  range of P. virginiana includes  सबसे   of  the continent  ,   मगर  for the far north and far south .
Los Angeles International Airport is the primary  विमानक्षेत्र  serving the Greater Los Angeles Area , the second-most populated metropolitan area in  the  United  राज्य  .
it  is most often  referred   to  by its IATA airport code LAX , with the letters  सुनाया   individually  .
LAX  is   स्तिथ   in  southwestern  लॉस  Angeles along the Pacific coast in the neighborhood  of  Westchester , from the  शहर  core and is the primary  विमानक्षेत्र  of Los  एंजिल्स   संसार  Airports  (  LAWA ) ,  an   एजेंसी  of the Los  एंजिल्स  city government  formerly  known as  the  Department of Airports .
In 2011 ,  lax   थी  the sixth busiest  विमानक्षेत्र   in  the world  बाद   hartsfield-jackson   अटलांटा  International Airport , Beijing Capital  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport , London Heathrow Airport , Chicago O'Hare International Airport  ,  and Tokyo Haneda  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport with 61,862,052 passengers .
The  विमानक्षेत्र  holds  the  claim for ``  the   संसार  's busiest origin and destination ( O  &  D ) airport '' in 2011 that  involves  non-connecting  यात्री  traffic .
It is also  the  only  विमानक्षेत्र   to  rank among the  शीर्ष  five U.S. airports for both passenger  और   कार्गो  traffic .
LAX is the busiest  विमानक्षेत्र   in  the Greater Los Angeles  क्षेत्रफल  , but other  एयरपोर्ट  including  bob   आशा   विमानक्षेत्र  , John  वेन  Airport , Long Beach  विमानक्षेत्र   ,  LA/Ontario International Airport ,  और   ताड़  Springs International  विमानक्षेत्र  also serve the region .
LAX is  भी  the  व्यस्ततम  airport in California  और  the West  coast  of the United  राज्य  in terms of flight operations ,  यात्री  traffic  और  air cargo  कार्यकलाप  , leading  it   to  be referred to as the `` Gateway  to  the Pacific Rim  ``  .
Peyton Williams Manning (  born  March 24 , 1976  )  is an American football quarterback for the Denver Broncos of the  नेशनल   फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL ) .
He played for the Indianapolis Colts  लिये   14  seasons from 1998 to 2011 .
He is the son of former NFL quarterback Archie Manning and an elder brother of New York Giants quarterback Eli  मैनिंग  .
Manning played college football for  the  University of Tennessee , leading  the  Volunteers to the 1997 SEC Championship in  उसके  senior season .
However ,  no  . 3  टेनेसी  lost to the No .  2  Nebraska Cornhuskers 42-17 in the  नारंगी  Bowl giving Nebraska and Tom Osborne  उनके   3rd  national championship  in  4 years .
he  was chosen by the Indianapolis  कोल्टस  with the  पहला  overall pick in the 1998 NFL Draft .
From 1998 to 2010 , he led the Colts  to  eight ( seven AFC South and one AFC East )  प्रभाग  championships  ,  two AFC championships ,  और  to  a   सुपर  Bowl championship  (  Super Bowl XLI ) .
He has  जीती   a  record  चार  league most  मूल्यवान  player awards  ,  was the most valuable player of  सुपर  Bowl  xli  , has been named to twelve Pro  प्याले  , has twelve 4,000-yard passing seasons , and is the  इंडियानापोलिस   कोल्टस  ' all-time leader in passing yards ( 54,828  )  and  touchdown  passes ( 399 ) .
in  2009 , he was named the best  खिलाड़ी  in  the  NFL and Fox Sports along with  खेल   illustrated  named him  the   एनएफएल   खिलाड़ी   of  the  दशक   of   the  2000s  .
in  May 2011 , he  underwent  neck surgery to  alleviate  neck pain and arm weakness he dealt with during the previous few seasons before signing a  five-year  ,  $  90  लाख  contract extension with  the  Colts in July 2011  .
Manning  था  hoped to  खेल  in the 2011 season , but  in  September 2011 , he  underwent  a much  अधिक  serious second surgery  :  a level one cervical fusion  कार्यविधि  .
Manning had never  छूटी  an NFL game in his career ,  लकिन  was  मजबूर  to  मिस  the entire 2011 season .
He was  released  by  the  Colts  on  March 7 , 2012 , and after an almost two-week  काल   जहाँ  he visited with and worked out for several  एनएफएल  teams , he  हस्ताक्षरित  with the Denver Broncos on March 20 , 2012 .
Manning 's pre-snap routine  रै  earned him  the  nickname ,  ``  The Sheriff '' and is one of the most recognizable  और  parodied in the NFL .
The  इंडियानापोलिस  Colts '  लगभग  exclusive use of the hurry-up  ठोकर  led  to  Manning  using  an array of gestures and verbal commands to  कॉल  the play at  the  line  of  scrimmage rather than in the  huddle  .
The America  मीनार  of the American  सामान्य  Center , the headquarters  of  Baker Hughes
Baker Hughes  is  one of  the  world 's largest  oilfield  services companies  .
It operates in  over  90 countries , providing the oil  और  gas industry with products and services  लिये  drilling , formation evaluation , completion , production and reservoir consulting .
बेकर  Hughes has its headquarters in the America Tower in the American  सामान्य  Center  in  Neartown , Houston .
Baker Hughes Incorporated was formed when Baker International and Hughes Tool  कम्पनी  merged  in  1987 .
Baker Hughes operates worldwide  साथ  major  कार्यालयों  in Liverpool ,  संयुक्त  Kingdom ; Singapore ; Dubai ; a research and maintenance facility in Celle , Germany ; Lafayette  ,  Louisiana  ;  Houston  ,  Texas ; Pescara , Italy ; and Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia  .
The company is administered broadly in two  बांटती  : the eastern hemisphere with five regions ( Europe , Africa , the  मध्य  East , Asia  प्रशांत  and  russia/caspian  )  और   the  western hemisphere with four  regions  ( Canada , US Land  ,  US  गल्फ  , and Latin America ) .
प्रत्येक   of  these  regions  is subdivided into  बाज़ार  .
The United  राज्य  one-  cent   सिक्का  ,  commonly  known as a penny , is a unit  of  currency  equaling  one one-hundredth of a United States  डालर  .
The cent 's  प्रतीक  is  ¢  .
Its obverse has featured the profile of President Abraham Lincoln since 1909 , the centennial of his birth  .
From 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of  lincoln  's birth ) to  2008   ,  the reverse featured the Lincoln  मेमोरियल  .
Four different reverse designs in  2009  honored Lincoln 's  200th   जन्मदिवस   और  a new  ,  permanent  रिवर्स  – the Union Shield –  थी  introduced in 2010 .
The coin is 0.75 inches ( 19.05 mm ) in  व्यास  and  0.061  inches  (  1.55  mm  )  in   मोटाई  .
The U.S.  मिंट   's  official name for a penny is `` ''  और  the U.S. Treasury 's official name is  ``  one cent piece ''  .
The  colloquial  term penny derives from the British  सिक्का  of the same  नाम   ,  the pre-decimal version of which had a similar value .
In American English ,  कौड़ी  is the  बहुवचन   रूप  ,  अन्य  plural forms pence and  पेशाब  ( standard use in British English ) are not used  .
as  of 2012 ,  it  costs the U.S.  मिंट  2.00  सेंट  to make  a  cent because of the  लागत  of  सामग्री  and  उत्पादन   .
This  फिगर  includes the Mint’s fixed components for distribution  और  fabrication  ,  estimated at $ 13 million  in  FY 2011  .
It also  शामिल  Mint overhead allocated to the  पैनी  , which was $ 17.7 million for 2011 .
फिक्स्ड  costs  और  overhead  होता  have to be absorbed  by  other circulating coins without  the  penny .
The loss in profitability due to producing the one cent coin  in  the United States for the year of 2012 was  $  58,000,000 .
This was a slight  घटी  from 2011 , the  साल   पहले   ,  which had a production  घाटा  of $ 60,200,000  .
or  अधिक  specifically , are ornamental varieties of domesticated  आम   कार्प  ( Cyprinus carpio  )  that  हैं  kept for decorative  उद्देश्य  in outdoor koi ponds  or   जल  gardens .
Koi varieties  हैं  distinguished  by  coloration  ,  patterning , and scalation .
Some of  the  major colors are white , black  ,  red , yellow , blue  ,  and  मलाई   .
The most popular category of koi  is  the Gosanke , which  is  made up of the Kohaku , Taisho  sanshoku  , and Showa Sanshoku varieties .
The American Federation of Government Employees ( AFGE ) is an American labor union representing  over  650,000 employees of  the  federal government , about 5,000 employees of the District of Columbia ,  और  a few  सौ  private sector employees  ,  mostly in  और   around  federal facilities .
AFGE is  the  largest  संघ  for  civilian  , non- postal federal employees and the largest union for District of Columbia employees who report directly  to  the mayor ( i.e. , outside of  d.C.  public schools ) .
It  is  affiliated with the AFL-CIO .
a  late  सिल्यूरियन  sporangium .
Green  :   a   spore  tetrad .
ब्लू  : A spore bearing  a   trilete  mark – the -shaped scar .
The spores are  परिचय  30-35 μm across
The  एवोल्यूशन   of  plants has  resulted  in increasing levels of  जटिलता  , from the earliest  algal  mats  ,  through bryophytes , lycopods , ferns to the complex gymnosperms  और   angiosperms  of today  .
While many of the groups which  appeared  earlier continue to thrive , especially in the environments in which they evolved , for a time each  नई   ग्रेड  of organisation became more ``  कामयाब  '' than its predecessors .
In the  ordovician  period , around , the first land plants appeared .
These began to diversify in  the   लेट   सिल्यूरियन  Period , around , and the results of their  diversification  are displayed in remarkable detail in an early  devonian  fossil assemblage from the Rhynie chert .
This chert  preserved  early  पौधे  in  सेल्यूलर  detail , petrified in volcanic springs .
By the middle of the Devonian Period , most of the  सुविधाएँ  recognised in  पौधे  today are present , including roots , leaves  और  secondary  लकडी  ;  और  , by late Devonian times  ,  seeds  था  evolved .
Late Devonian plants  था  thereby  पहुँचे  a degree of sophistication that allowed them to form forests of tall trees .
विकासवादी  innovation continued into the Carboniferous period and is still  जारी  today .
सबसे  plant groups were relatively unscathed by the  permo-triassic  extinction event , although the structures of  समुदायों  changed  .
इस  may have set the  झाँकी  for the appearance of the flowering plants  in  the Triassic  (   ~  ) ,  और  their later diversification in the Cretaceous and Paleogene  .
the  latest  प्रमुख  group of plants  to  evolve were the grasses , which  became  important in the mid-Paleogene , from around  .
The grasses , as well as many  अन्य  groups ,  विकसित  new mechanisms of metabolism to survive the low  और  warm , dry conditions  of   the   ऊष्णकटिबन्ध  over the last .
The winning Super Bowl team receives the Vince Lombardi Trophy .
The Super Bowl is an  सालाना  American football game that determines the champion of  the  National  फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL ) .
The contest  is  held in an American city that is chosen three  to  four years beforehand , usually  in  warm-weather or domed sites  .
Since 1971 , the winner of the American Football Conference ( AFC )  चैंपियनशिप  Game has faced  the  winner of the National  फ़ुटबॉल  Conference ( NFC ) Championship  खेल   in  the culmination of the NFL  playoffs  .
Before  the  1970 merger between the American Football League ( AFL )  और  the National Football League ( NFL ) ,  the   दो  leagues met  in  four such contests  .
the  first  दो  were known as the `` AFL-NFL World Championship Game .  ''
सुपर  Bowl III in 1969 was the  पहला  such game that carried the  ``  Super Bowl  ''   moniker   ,  the names `` Super Bowl I `` and `` Super Bowl II  ``  were retroactively applied to the  पहला  two games .
The NFC /NFL leads  in  Super Bowl  विन्स  with 25 , while the AFC /AFL has won 22 .
Eighteen different franchises , including teams that  relocated  to another city ,  have  won the Super  कटोरी  .
The Pittsburgh Steelers  have  won the most Super Bowls with  छह  championships ( record 6–2 ) , while  दोनो  the Dallas  cowboys  and San Francisco 49ers  have  five  विन्स  each ( Cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1  )  .
डलास   और   पिट्सबर्ग  have  the  most Super Bowl appearances with  आठ  , while the  भैंस  Bills have the most consecutive  दिखावे  with  चार  losses in a row from 1990 to 1993 .
The New England Patriots , Denver Broncos and  मिनेसोटा  Vikings have also  खोया  a record  चार   सुपर  Bowls .
Buffalo  और  Minnesota are both 0–4 ,  डेनवर  is 2–4  और  New England is 3–4 .
The record  लिये  consecutive wins is  दो  and  is   साझा  by seven franchises : the 1966-67 Green Bay  पैकर्स   ,  the 1972-73 Miami Dolphins , the  1974-75  and 1978-79  पिट्सबर्ग  Steelers (  the  only team to accomplish this feat twice  )   ,  the  1988-89  San Francisco 49ers , the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys , the 1997-98 Denver Broncos , and the  2003-04  New England Patriots .
The only  टोली  with multiple  सुपर  Bowl appearances and no losses is the  बाल्टीमोर   ravens  , who in winning Super Bowl XLVII  unseated  and replaced  the  49ers in  कि  position .
Four current NFL teams have never  appeared  in a Super  कटोरी  , including franchise relocations and renaming : the Cleveland Browns , Detroit Lions , Jacksonville Jaguars , and Houston Texans , though both the Browns and Lions  था  won NFL  चैंपियनशिप  games prior to the creation of the Super  कटोरी  .
Martin County is a  काउंटी  located in the U.S. state of Texas .
As of the  2010  census  ,  its population  थी   4,799  .
Its  सीट  is Stanton .
The county is  नामित  for Wylie Martin , an early settler .
Martin County is one of 30 prohibition , or entirely  शुष्क   ,  counties in the state of Texas .
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP ,  alkp  )  (   )  is a hydrolase enzyme responsible for  निकालना   फास्फेट  groups  इससे  many types  of  molecules , including nucleotides , proteins , and  alkaloids  .
The process  of  removing the phosphate group is  पुकारा  dephosphorylation .
As the name suggests ,  क्षारीय  phosphatases  हैं  most effective in  an  alkaline environment .
it  is sometimes  प्रयुक्त  synonymously  as  basic phosphatase .
Triticale ( × Triticosecale  )   ,  (  )  is a  संकर   of  wheat ( Triticum ) and rye  (   secale   )  first  करवाया   in  laboratories during  the  late 19th century  .
The grain was  originally  bred in Scotland and Sweden .
Commercially available triticale is almost always a second generation hybrid ,  i.e.  , a cross between two kinds of primary (  पहला   क्रॉस  ) triticales .
As a  नियम  , triticale combines the yield potential and grain quality  of  wheat with the disease  और   पर्यावरणीय  tolerance ( including  मृदा  conditions ) of rye  .
Only  recently  has it been  विकसित  into a  commercially  viable crop .
Depending on the cultivar ,  triticale  can  अधिक   or  less  resemble  either of  इसके  parents .
It is  grown  mostly for  forage  or  चारा  , although some triticale-based foods can be purchased at health food  स्टोर्स   or   हैं  to be  मिला  in some breakfast cereals .
When  क्रासिंग  wheat and rye , wheat is used as the female  जनक   और  rye  as  the male parent ( pollen  दाता  ) .
The resulting hybrid is  बंध्य  , and must be treated with colchicine to induce polyploidy and thus  the  ability to reproduce itself .
The primary  निर्माता  of triticale are Poland , Germany , France , Belarus and Australia .
In 2009 ,  according   to  the  खाना  and Agriculture Organization  (   fao  ) , 15.0  लाख  tons were harvested in 29 countries across the world  .
The triticale hybrids are all amphidiploid , which means the plant is diploid for two  genomes   निकला  from different  प्रजाति   .
In other words ,  triticale  is an allotetraploid .
In  पहले  years , most work was done  on  octoploid  triticale  .
अलग  ploidy levels have been created and evaluated over time .
The tetraploids showed little promise , but hexaploid triticale was successful enough to  ढूँढें  commercial application .
The  cimmyt  triticale improvement program  चाही  to improve  खाना  production  और  nutrition  in  developing countries  .
Triticale has  संभावित  in the production  of  bread  और  other food products , such as cookies , pasta  ,  pizza  आटा  and breakfast cereals  .
The protein content is higher  than  that  of  wheat , although the  glutenin  fraction is less .
The  अनाज  has also been stated  to  have higher levels of lysine  than   गेहूं  .
Assuming  increased   स्वीकृति  ,  the  milling industry will have to adapt to triticale , as  the  milling techniques employed for wheat  हैं  unsuited to triticale .
Sell  et  al . found triticale  could  be used as a  फीड  grain , and  बाद  research found  इसके  starch was particularly readily digested .
as  a feed grain ,  triticale  is already  खूब  established and of  ऊँची  economic importance .
it   रै  received attention as a potential energy crop , and  शोध  is currently  होने  conducted on  the  use of the crop 's biomass in bioethanol production .
``  कश  , the Magic Dragon '' is a  सोंग  written by Leonard Lipton  और   पीटर  Yarrow , and  बना  popular  by   yarrow   's   समूह  Peter , Paul and Mary  in  a 1963 recording .
The song achieved  ग्रेट  popularity .
a   कॉलेज   फ़ुटबॉल  national championship in the highest level of collegiate  खेल  in  the  United States  ,  currently the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA )  प्रभाग  I Football Bowl  subdivision  ( FBS )  ,  is a designation awarded annually by various third-party organizations to their selection ( s ) of the best  कॉलेज  football team ( s ) .
Division I FBS ( formerly Division I-A  )  football  is  the only NCAA sport in which a  वार्षिक  champion is not determined by  an  NCAA sanctioned championship event .
Because the championship team is not determined  by  a NCAA  चैंपियनशिप  or tournament  इवेंट  ,  it  is sometimes unofficially referred to as a  ``  mythical national championship `` .
Since the NCAA  ,  the sport 's governing  देह  , does not determine or declare a national champion in this field , determination of such  रै   प्रायः  engendered controversy  .
A championship  टोली  is independently declared by various individuals and organizations , often referred to as `` selectors '' .
These choices  हैं  sometimes at odds  साथ  each other .
While the NCAA has never  officially  endorsed an annual championship team  ,  it  रै   प्रलेखित   the  choices  of  several selectors in the official  ncaa  Football Bowl Subdivision Records .
In addition ,  विभिन्न   तीसरा  party analysts have independently published their  अपना  lists of what they  have  determined to be the  सबसे  legitimate selections for each  ऋतु  .
These  हैं  also often  at  odds with each  अन्य  as well as individual school 's  दावा  on  नेशनल   championships  ,  जिससे  ,  लिये  any particular season ,  may  or may not  correlate  to the selections published elsewhere  .
Currently  ,  two widely recognized national champions selectors are the Associated Press ,  जिससे  conducts a  पोल  of football  sportswriters   ,  and  the  USA Today  कोच  ' Poll ,  a  poll of American Football Coaches Association active coaches that is contractually obligated to  नाम  the winner  of  the Bowl Championship Series  चैंपियनशिप  game as its national champion .
The Milwaukee Brewers are a professional baseball team based in Milwaukee , Wisconsin .
the  team  is  a member of the Central Division of Major  लीग  Baseball 's  नेशनल  League and plays its home  खेल  at Miller Park .
the  team is so named because  of  the city  's  association  साथ  the brewing industry .
The Washington Nationals are  a  professional  बेसबॉल  team based in Washington ,  d.c  .
The Nationals are a  सदस्य  of the East Division of the  नेशनल  League of Major League Baseball ( MLB )  .
The team  's  home ballpark is Nationals Park , located  on  South  कैपिटल  Street in Southeast D.C. , near the Anacostia River .
The park opened in  2008  , replacing RFK Stadium , the team 's home from 2005 to 2007 .
The Nationals ' name derives from  the  former Washington baseball team that had the same name (  प्रयुक्त  interchangeably with Senators  )   .
Their nickname  is  `` the Nats '' —a shortened version  कि   थी  also  प्रयुक्त  by  the  old D.C. teams .
An  विस्तार  franchise  ,  the club was founded in as the Montreal Expos ,  the  first major league  टोली  in Canada .
वे  were based in Montreal , Quebec , and played their home  खेल  at Jarry Park Stadium and  बाद  in Olympic  स्टेडियम   .
in  ,  the   expos   जीती  a division championship , won their first-ever  playoff  series by defeating  the  Philadelphia Phillies , 3–2  ,  and advanced to the National League  चैंपियनशिप   श्रेणी  , where  वे  would  go  on to lose to the Los  एंजिल्स  Dodgers , 3–2 , in their only  postseason  appearance during the strike-shortened season .
The Expos had their  उच्चतम  winning percentage in the strike-shortened season of , when the team had the best record  in   बेसबॉल  .
The  टोली  's subsequent shedding of players caused fan interest to  बूँद  off  .
After the 2001 season ,  एमएलबी  considered  revoking  the team 's franchise  ,  along with either the Minnesota Twins or  the  Tampa Bay Devil  किरणें  .
After  होने  purchased  by  MLB in  2002  , the team was moved before  the  season to  वॉशिंगटन  and renamed the Nationals  ,  the  पहला  relocation since the second Washington Senators moved to Arlington ,  टेक्सास  , and  became  the Texas Rangers in .
the  Nationals  हैं  one of  दो  MLB franchises ,  और  the only one  in   the  National League , that has never played  in  a World Series (  the  Seattle  मैरीनेर्स  are the  अन्य  ) .
A contingent fee ( in the United  राज्य   )  or conditional fee (  in   इंग्लैण्ड  and  वेल्स  )  is  any fee for  सेवाएं  provided where the fee is payable only if there is a  favourable  result .
in  the law , it is defined  as  a ``  शुल्क  charged for a lawyer 's  सेवाएं  only  if  the  मुकदमा  is successful or is favorably settled out  of  court  ...   .
Contingent fees are usually calculated as a percentage of the client 's  जाल  recovery . ''
In the English  विधिक   प्रणाली  , it is  generally   referred  to as no win no  शुल्क   .
a  conditional fee  अनुबंध  between  a  law firm and a client .
The usual form of this agreement is that the  solicitor  will take a law  मामला  on the understanding that if lost , no payment is  बना  .
However , if the case is won , the lawyer will be entitled  to  the normal fee  आधारित  on  hourly  billing , plus a success  शुल्क  .
The success fee in England must be as a percentage no greater than 100 % of the normal fee .
This contrasts  साथ  the contingency  शुल्क  in the US , which gives  the  successful  attorney  a percentage  of  the damages awarded in  एहसान   of  his client .
This makes it easier for the poor to pursue  उनके  civil rights  चूंकि  otherwise  ,  to  मुकदमा   किसी  for a tort , one must first be  धनवान  enough to pursue  ऐसे  litigation in  the   पहला  place .
However  ,  because of the  ऊँची   रिस्क   ,  few attorneys will  लो   मामले   on  a contingency basis unless they feel  the  case has good merit  .
According to  a  2004 book  by  law professor Herbert Kritzer , contingent fees  यहूद   अनुमत  as of that year in the following countries : Australia , Brazil , Canada  ,  the Dominican Republic , France ,  यूनानियों  , Ireland , Japan  ,  New Zealand  ,  the United  किंगडम  and the United States .
They  हैं  also allowed in  निजी   चोट  actions  in  Lithuania .
Recently , they have  महरूम  allowed in Belgium as  खूब   .
a  Convocation ( Latin 'calling together ' , translating the Greek  ecclesia  )  is  a group of people formally assembled for a special purpose .
Sons of  अराजकता  is a television drama  श्रेणी  created by Kurt  sutter  about the  जीवनदान  of a close-knit outlaw motorcycle  क्लबों   ऑपरेटिंग   in   आकर्षक  , a fictional town in California 's Central Valley .
The show centers on protagonist  जैक्सन   ``  Jax '' Teller ( Charlie  hunnam  ) , the  then-vice  president of the  क्लबों  , who begins questioning  the  club and himself .
Sons of  अराजकता   premiered  on September  3  , 2008 , on cable network FX  .
The third season of  the  series attracted an  औसत   of  4.9  लाख   दर्शक  per week , making it FX 's  उच्चतम  rated series ever , surpassing FX 's other hits The Shield  ,  Nip/Tuck , and Rescue Me .
On  फ़रवरी  3 , 2012 , Sons of Anarchy was renewed for two additional seasons  ,  a fifth  और   a   छठे   .
Those involved in the  उत्पादन   of  the series imply that  a  seventh and final season is creator  कर्ट  Sutter  's  plan .
The  grímsvötn  sub-glacial lakes ( ; vötn = `` waters '' ,  एकवचन  :  )  and the volcano of the same name  हैं  in South-East Iceland  .
They  हैं  in the highlands of Iceland  at  the northwestern side of  the  Vatnajökull  ice-cap  .
The lakes  हैं  at , at an elevation of .
Beneath the  झीलों  is the magma chamber of the Grímsvötn volcano .
Grímsvötn is  a   basaltic  volcano  जिससे  has the  उच्चतम  eruption  आवृत्ति  of all the volcanoes  in  Iceland and  रै  a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system  .
The massive  climate-impacting  Laki fissure eruption of 1783–1784 was a part of the same fissure  प्रणाली  .
Grímsvötn was erupting at the same time  as   laki  during 1783 , but continued to  erupt   जबतक  1785 .
Because  सबसे  of  the  volcano lies underneath Vatnajökull , most  of   इसके  eruptions have been subglacial and  the  interaction of magma  और   meltwater  from the ice causes phreatomagmatic explosive activity .
On  21  May 2011 at 19:25 UTC , an eruption  began   ,  with  ऊँची   plumes  accompanied  by  multiple earthquakes ,  resulting  in cancellation of 900 flights in Iceland ,  और  in the United  किंगडम   ,   ग्रीनलैंड  ,  जर्मनी  ,  आयरलैंड  and Norway on 22–25 May .
Until 25 May the eruption scale had been larger  than  that of the  2010   फटना  of Eyjafjallajökull .
The eruption  रोका  at 02:40 UTC  on  25 May 2011 , although there was  कुछ  explosive activity  इससे  the tephra  vents  affecting only the area around  the  crater .
Vetting is the process of  performing  a background check on  किसी  before  offering  them employment , conferring an award , etc .
a  prospective person or project may be vetted before making a hiring decision .
In  जोड  , in intelligence gathering , assets are vetted to determine their usefulness .
Former headquarters  और   वर्तमान   कॉरपोरेट  offices
Caesars Entertainment Corporation (  formerly  Harrah 's  entertainment  from 1995  to   2010  ) is an American public gaming corporation that owns and operates  over  50  कसीनो  , hotels , and seven golf courses under several brands .
The company ,  आधारित  in  स्वर्ग   ,  Nevada , is the largest gaming company in  the   संसार  , with annual  revenues  of $ 8.9 billion (  2010  )  .
Caesars is a public  कम्पनी  ,  साथ  a  संयुक्त  venture of Apollo Global Management and Texas Pacific  समूह  ownig a large portion of the stack  और   blackstone  Group also holding a significant stake .
The  नाम  change from `` Harrah 's Entertainment Inc. '' to `` Caesars Entertainment Corporation  ''   थी  made  आधिकारिक  on November 23 ,  2010  .
Harrah 's remains  a  key brand in the company  .
On November 5  ,   2010  , Harrah 's announced an initial  पब्लिक  offering of 31,250,000 shares  लकिन  retracted  इस   offering  on November  19  .
A Permanent Resident in Canada is a person who is not a  कनाडाई  citizen but  जो  has been granted permission to live and work in Canada without any time limit on his  or  her stay .
a  permanent  निवासी  must live  in  Canada for  दो  years out of  प्रत्येक   पाँच   or  risk losing that status .
A Permanent Resident  holds  many of the same rights and responsibilities as a Canadian citizen , among others the right to  कार्य  for  कोई  enterprise as well  as  for the federal or  प्रांतीय  government ( under restriction of access rights to certain  regulated  professions ) .
The main differences  हैं   कि  residents can not :
vote in elections in Canada ;
run for elected office  ;
hold Canadian passports ;
In  जोड   ,   वे  may be allowed  to  join Canada 's  हथियारबंद  forces if the national interest would not be prejudiced  .
Permanent residents also risk deportation for  गंभीर  crimes  वचनबद्ध  while resident in  कनाडा  .
Permanent residents may  लागू  for Canadian citizenship  बाद  three years in Canada ;  however  this  is  not mandatory .
Erica Kane is a fictional character from the American ABC Daytime soap  ओपेरा   सब  My Children .
The character was portrayed  by  actress Susan Lucci from her  डेब्यू  on  जनवरी   16  , 1970 until the last broadcast television  एपीसोड  aired on September 23 , 2011 .
On  फ़रवरी  11  ,  2013 , it was announced that  lucci  will guest-star  on  the Prospect Park 's continuation of All My Children .
In the  u.S.  , Erica is considered to be  the  most  लोकप्रिय  character in soap opera history .
Regarding the North-American market , TV Guide  काल्स  her `` unequivocally the most  प्रसिद्ध   साबुन   ओपेरा  character in the history of daytime TV '' ,  और  included her  in  their  2013  list of  the  60  nastiest  Villains of All  समय  .
A graph of the US CPI from 1913 to 2006 ( in blue )  ,  and its percent annual change ( in red )
A consumer price index ( CPI ) measures changes in  the  price  स्तर  of a market basket of  उपभोक्ता  goods and services purchased by households .
The CPI  in  the  संयुक्त  States is  पारिभाषित  by the Bureau of  मजदूर  Statistics as `` a measure of the average change over time in the prices paid by urban consumers for a market  बास्केट  of consumer goods  और  services  .   ''
The CPI is a statistical estimate  constructed  using the  कीमतें  of  a  sample of representative  वस्तुएं  whose prices are  एकत्रित   periodically  .
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes  हैं  computed for different categories and sub-categories of goods and services  ,  being  संयुक्त  to  उपज  the overall index with  weights  reflecting their shares in the total of the consumer expenditures covered  by   the   अनुक्रमणिका  .
It is one of several price indices calculated by  सबसे  national statistical  एजेंसियों   .
the  annual percentage change  in   a  CPI is used as a measure  of  inflation .
A CPI can be used  to  index ( i.e. ,  समायोजन  for the  प्रभाव  of inflation ) the real value of wages , salaries , pensions ,  लिये  regulating prices and for deflating monetary magnitudes to show  परिवर्तन  in real values .
In most countries , the CPI is  ,   साथ  with  the  population census and the USA National  आय  and Product Accounts , one of the  सबसे  closely watched  नेशनल  economic  आंकडे  .
Knocking on wood , or to touch wood , refers to the apotropaic tradition in western folklore of literally  touching/knocking  on wood  ,  or merely stating that you  हैं   doing   or   intend  same ,  in  order to  avoid   ``  tempting fate `` after making a favourable observation  ,   a  boast , or declaration  concerning  one 's own death .
Rocker arm
Generally  referred   to  within the context  of   the  internal  दहन   इंजन   of  automotive , marine  ,  motorcycle and reciprocating aviation engines  ,  the rocker arm  is   an   oscillating  lever that conveys radial movement from the cam lobe into linear movement at the poppet valve to open it .
One end is raised and lowered by a  घूर्णन  lobe  of  the camshaft (  either  directly or via a tappet (  lifter  ) and pushrod ) while the  अन्य  end acts on the valve stem .
When  the  camshaft lobe raises the outside  of   the  arm , the  अंदर  presses down on  the  valve stem , opening the  वाल्व  .
When the outside of the  भुजा  is permitted to return  due  to the  camshafts  rotation , the inside rises , allowing the valve spring  to  close  the  valve .
The drive cam is  चलित  by the  camshaft  .
This pushes the rocker  भुजा  up and down about the  trunnion  pin or rocker  शाफ्ट  .
घर्षण  may be reduced at the point of contact with the valve stem by a roller cam  अनुसरणकर्ता  .
A similar arrangement  हस्तांतरण  the motion via another  रोलर  cam follower  to   a   दूसरी  rocker arm .
This rotates about the  रॉकर  shaft , and transfers the motion via  a  tappet to the poppet valve .
In this case  इस  opens  the   सेवन  valve to the cylinder  सिर  .
The effective leverage of the arm ( and thus  the  force  it  can  exert   on  the valve stem ) is  संकल्पित  by the rocker  भुजा  ratio , the  अनुपात  of  the  distance from  the  rocker arm  's   बीच  of rotation  to  the  टिप   विभाजित  by the distance from  the  center of rotation to the  पाइंट   acted  on by  the  camshaft or pushrod .
Current automotive  डिज़ाइन   favors  rocker arm ratios of about 1.5:1 to  1.8:1  .
however   ,   in  the past smaller positive ratios  (   the  valve lift  is  greater than the cam lift  )  and even negative ratios (  वाल्व  lift  छोटी  than  the   कैम  lift ) have been used  .
अनेक  pre-WW2 engines use  1:1  ( neutral  )  ratios .
लिये  car engines the rocker arms are generally steel  stampings  , providing  a  reasonable balance of strength , weight  और   किफायती   लागत   .
Because the rocker arms  हैं  , in part  ,  reciprocating weight , excessive mass especially at the lever ends limits the engine  's  ability to reach  ऊँची  operating speeds  .
`` The Night the Lights Went Out in Georgia ''  is  a  दक्षिणी   गोथिक  song written by songwriter Bobby Russell and performed in 1972  by  his  then-wife  Vicki Lawrence  .
Reba McEntire later covered it in 1991 .
अंकित  in late October 1972 in  united/western  Studios on  सूर्यास्त  in Hollywood and released  कम  than two weeks later  in   नवम्बर  1972 , the song centers around  the  older brother of  the  narrator , falsely convicted  of   और   चलाया  for a murder , which the narrator herself has committed  .
In postal mail ,  a  return address is an explicit inclusion of the address of the person sending the message .
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) with a means to determine how to respond  to  the  प्रेषक  of the message if needed  .
The  वापसी  address need not include a sender 's  नाम  , but should include address or P.O  .  box details in the same  रास्ता  as  the  delivery address should .
In some countries , the  वापसी   पता  is conventionally located in the upper left  हाथ  corner of the envelope , card ,  or   लेबल  .
In the United Kingdom , the return address  is   प्रायः  placed on the  रिवर्स  of the  लिफाफा  , near the top .
व्यवसायों  often use envelopes preprinted with a  वापसी  address .
Many individuals have sheets of adhesive  लेबल्स   preprinted  with  उनके  home  पता  to  affix  to their correspondence .
Charities sometimes include  ऐसे  sheets in mailshots .
रोल्स  of Return  पता  Labels can be purchased from companies that sell personalized labels to provide individuals an easy way  to   छिलके  and stick return  पता   लेबल्स  to their envelopes .
The return address is not required on postal mail  .
however  ,  कमी  of a return address  रोकता  the postal service  इससे  being able to return  the  item if it  proves  undeliverable ; such as from damage , postage due , or  अमान्य  destination .
Such  मेल  may thus become dead letter mail .
चाहिए  the return address  be  of  a  different state or  देश   ,   the  mail may be routed through that location  लिये  ease  of  return .
A nerve guidance conduit  (   भी  referred  to  as  an  artificial nerve  conduit  or artificial nerve  graft   ,  as  opposed  to  an  autograft )  is  an artificial means  of  guiding axonal regrowth to facilitate nerve regeneration and is one of several clinical treatments for nerve injuries .
When direct suturing  of  the two stumps  of  a severed nerve  can  not  be   संपन्नता   बगैर  tension , the  मानक  clinical  उपचार  for peripheral nerve  चोटों   is  autologous nerve grafting .
Due to  the   सीमित  availability of donor tissue and functional recovery in autologous  तंत्रिका  grafting , neural tissue engineering research has focused on the  विकास  of  bioartificial  nerve guidance conduits as an  वैकल्पिक  treatment ,  विशेषकर   लिये  large defects .
समान  techniques are also being explored for nerve repair in the spinal cord but nerve  regeneration  in the central nervous  प्रणाली  poses a greater challenge because  इसके  axons do not regenerate appreciably  in  their native  पर्यावरण  .
The creation of artificial conduits  is  also  ज्ञात  as entubulation  क्युकी   the  nerve ends and intervening  गैप   हैं  enclosed within a tube composed of biological  or  synthetic materials .
Whether the conduit  is  in the form of a biologic tube , synthetic  ट्यूब  or tissue-engineered  conduit  , it  चाहिए  facilitate neurotropic  और   neurotrophic   संचार   between  the  proximal  and distal  ends  of the nerve gap ,  ब्लाक  external inhibitory factors , and provide a physical guidance for axonal regrowth .
The most basic objective of  a  nerve guidance conduit is to combine physical , chemical , and biological cues under conditions that will foster tissue formation .
Materials that have been used to make biologic  tubes  include blood vessels and skeletal  मांसपेशियां  , while nonabsorbable and bioabsorbable synthetic tubes have been made from  silicone   और  polyglycolide  क्रमशः  .
Tissue-engineered nerve guidance conduits are a  संयोजन  of many  तत्व   :  scaffold structure , scaffold material , cellular  therapies  , neurotrophic factors  और  biomimetic materials .
The choice of  जिससे  physical  ,  chemical and biological  cues  to use is based on  the  properties of  the  nerve  पर्यावरण  ,  जिससे  is critical in creating the most desirable environment  लिये  axon  regeneration  .
the  factors that control  सामग्री  selection include biocompatibility , biodegradability , mechanical integrity ,  controllability  during  तंत्रिका  growth , implantation and sterilization .
Hardcore Pawn is an American reality television series  उत्पादित   by  RDF USA ( later Zodiak  यूएसए  )  और  Richard  dominick  Productions for truTV about  the  day-to-day operations of American Jewelry  और  Loan  ,   a  family-owned pawn shop located at 20450 Greenfield Road , between 8 Mile Road and the  जॉन  C. Lodge Freeway in Detroit  ,   मिशिगन  .
The series premiered on  अगस्त  16  ,  2010 , delivering two million  दर्शक  ,  सेटिंग  a record as truTV 's most-watched series premiere ever .
Amoxicillin  bp
amoxicillin  ( INN  )  , formerly amoxycillin ( BAN ) , and abbreviated  amox  , is a moderate-spectrum , bacteriolytic , β-lactam antibiotic  प्रयुक्त   to   दावत  bacterial infections caused by  susceptible   microorganisms  .
It is  प्रायः  the drug of choice within the  क्लास   क्युकी   it  is better  अवशोषित  , following oral  प्रशासन   ,  than other β-lactam antibiotics .
Amoxicillin is one of the  सबसे  common  एंटीबायोटिक  prescribed for children .
The drug became available  in  1972 .
Amoxicillin is susceptible  to  degradation by β-lactamase -producing  जीवाणु  , which  हैं   resistant   to  a broad spectrum of β-lactam antibiotics  ,  such as penicillin .
For  इस   कारण  , it is often  संयुक्त  with clavulanic acid , a β-lactamase  inhibitor  .
This increases effectiveness by  reducing   इसके  susceptibility to  β-lactamase  resistance .
Lyndon  baines   जॉनसन   (   अगस्त  27 , 1908 – January  22  , 1973  )  , often referred to as LBJ , was the 36th President  of   the  United States ( 1963–1969 ) , a position he assumed after  उसके  service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ) .
He  is  one of only four people  जो   परोसा   in  all four  निर्वाचित  federal offices of the United  राज्य  :  प्रतिनिधि  , Senator , Vice President , and  अध्यक्ष  .
Johnson  ,  a Democrat from Texas , served  as  a United States Representative from  1937–1949  and as a Senator from 1949–1961 , including six years as United States Senate Majority  नेता  , two as  सीनेट  Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip .
बाद  campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic  नामांकन  in  1960  , Johnson was  पूछा  by John F.  कैनेडी  to be his  कार्यशील   mate  for the 1960 presidential election .
Johnson succeeded to  the  presidency following the  हत्या  of John F.  कैनेडी  on  नवम्बर  22 , 1963 , completed Kennedy 's term  और  was elected  अध्यक्ष  in  उसके  own right , winning  by   a  large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964  चुनाव  .
Johnson  थी  greatly supported by the  लोकतांत्रिक  Party and as  अध्यक्ष  , he was responsible for  डिजाइनिंग  the  ``  Great Society `` legislation that included  कानून  that upheld civil rights , public broadcasting ,  medicare  ,  medicaid  , environmental  सुरक्षा  , aid to  शिक्षा   ,  and his `` War on Poverty . ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering personality and the `` Johnson treatment , '' his  coercion  of powerful politicians in order  to  advance  विधान  .
Meanwhile , Johnson escalated American  भागीदारी  in the  वियतनाम  War  ,  from 16,000 American  advisors/soldiers   in  1963 to 550,000 combat troops  in  early 1968 , as American casualties soared  और  the  सलाम  process bogged down .
the  involvement stimulated  a  large angry antiwar movement  आधारित  especially  on  university campuses  in  the U.S. and  विदेश  .
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965 , and crime rates  soared  , as his opponents raised  मांगे  for ``  विधि   और  order '' policies .
The Democratic Party split  in  multiple feuding factions , and after Johnson  किया  poorly in the 1968  नई  Hampshire primary , he  ended   उसके   बोली   लिये  reelection .
रिपब्लिकन  Richard Nixon was elected to succeed him .
इतिहासकारों  argue that  जॉनसन  's presidency marked the peak of modern  उदारतावाद  in  the  United States  बाद  the New Deal era  .
Johnson  is  ranked favorably by  कुछ  historians because of  उसके  domestic policies .
The Big Bang Theory  डाल  at  कॉमिक  Con 2009 ,  इससे  left  :  Kunal Nayyar , Simon  helberg  , Kaley Cuoco  ,  Jim Parsons , and Johnny  galecki
the  American sitcom The Big Bang Theory , created and executive  उत्पादित  by Chuck Lorre and  विधेयक  Prady , premiered on CBS on September 24 , 2007 .
The  दिखाएँ  centers on five  वर्ण   :   roommates  Sheldon  कूपर   और  Leonard Hofstadter , two Caltech physicists ;  पैनी   ,  a waitress and aspiring actress who  जीवनदान   आरपार  the hall ;  और  Leonard  और   शेल्डन  's friends and  co-workers  aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz  ,   और   astrophysicist  Rajesh Koothrappali  .
Over time  ,  several  supporting  characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle  (  season  1  recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3  अतिथि  ) ,  a  physicist  सहयोगी  , and  ,  at different times ,  a  lover of both  लियोनार्ड  and  हावर्ड  ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , a  microbiologist   ,  Howard 's fiancée and subsequent  बीवी  ,  और  former  part-time  waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season  4-present  regular )  ,  who  joins  the  समूह  after being matched to Sheldon  on  a dating website ; and comic book store-owner , Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular )  ,  who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space .
The  दिखाएँ  also features  numerous  supporting characters , each  of  whom plays a  prominent   भूमिका  in  a  small group  of  episodes .
the  American Civil War ( ACW ) ,  भी  known as  the   युद्ध  between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought  इससे  1861 to 1865 between the United States (  the  `` Union '' or the  ``  North '' ) and several Southern  स्लेव  states that declared their secession and  formed  the Confederate  राज्य  of America  (  the `` Confederacy '' or the  ``  South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery , especially the extension of slavery  into  the western territories .
विदेशी   शक्तियां  did not  intervene  .
बाद  four years of bloody combat  कि   बाएँ  over 600,000 soldiers dead  और  destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the  मुश्किल   पुनर्निर्माण  process of  restoring  national  एकता  and  guaranteeing   अधिकारों  to the freed slaves began  .
In the  1860   अध्यक्षीय  election , Republicans  ,  led by Abraham  lincoln   ,  opposed expanding slavery into United  राज्य  ' territories .
lincoln   जीती  , but before his inauguration  on  March 4 , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
outgoing   लोकतांत्रिक  President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
lincoln   's   inaugural  address declared his  प्रशासन  would not initiate civil  युद्ध   .
आठ  remaining slave states  जारी  to  अस्वीकृत  calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts  भीतर  territory claimed  by  the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a  सुलह   ,   और  both sides  prepared  for war  .
the  Confederates assumed that European countries were  so  dependent  on  `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none  पहचाना  the new  confederate  States of America  .
Hostilities began on April  12  , 1861 ,  जब   confederate  forces fired upon  फोर्ट   sumter  , a key  फोर्ट  held by  संघ  troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln  पुकारा  for  प्रत्येक  state to provide troops  to  retake the  फोर्ट  ; consequently , four more  स्लेव  states  joined  the Confederacy , bringing  उनके  total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled  the  border states and established  a  naval blockade that crippled  the  southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn  1862  Confederate campaign into Maryland (  a  Union state ) ended  साथ  Confederate retreat at  the  Battle  of  Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued  the  Emancipation Proclamation , which  बना  ending  गुलामी  a  युद्ध  goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy  ,  then much  of   उनके  western armies  ,   और  the Union at Vicksburg split  the   confederacy  in  दो   at  the Mississippi River .
In  1863  , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at  the  Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864 .
in  the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture  अटलांटा   और  marched to the sea , destroying Confederate  अवसंरचना  along  the  way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to  आक्रमण   the   confederacy  from all directions , and could afford to fight battles of  अपघर्षण  through  the  Overland Campaign towards  रिचमंड  , the Confederate capital .
The  defending   confederate  army failed , leading  to  Lee  's  surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House  on  April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of the earliest true  औद्योगिक  wars .
Railroads  ,  the telegraph , steamships , and mass-produced  हथियार  were employed  extensively  .
the   mobilization   of  civilian factories  ,  mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed  संसार  War I .
It  remains  the deadliest war in American history , resulting in the deaths of  an   अनुमानित   750,000  soldiers and  an   undetermined  number of civilian  हताहत  .
इतिहासकार  John Huddleston estimates  the   मौत   टोल  at ten percent of  सब  Northern  males  20–45 years  बूढ़ा  , and  30   प्रतिशत  of all  दक्षिणी  white males aged 18–40 .
इंसान   एवोल्यूशन  refers to the evolutionary process leading  up   to  the  रूप  of modern humans .
While  it  began with the last  आम  ancestor  of  all  जीवन  , the topic usually covers only  the  evolutionary history  of   primates  , in  particular  the genus Homo  ,  and the emergence of Homo sapiens as a distinct  प्रजाति  of hominids ( or `` great apes '' ) .
The  पढ़ाई  of human  एवोल्यूशन  involves  अनेक  scientific disciplines , including physical anthropology , primatology , archaeology  ,  linguistics , evolutionary psychology  ,   भ्रूणविज्ञान   और  genetics .
according   to  genetic studies ,  primates   diverged  from other mammals about in the Late Cretaceous period , and the earliest fossils appear  in   the  Paleocene , around .
The family Hominidae diverged from the Hylobatidae (  गिबन  ) family 15-20 million  सालो  ago , and around  ,  the Ponginae  (   orangutans  )  ,   diverged  from the  मानवनुमा  family .
Bipedalism  is  the basic adaption  of   the  Hominin line , and the earliest  bipedal  Hominin  is   माना  to  be   either  Sahelanthropus or Orrorin , with Ardipithecus ,  a   पूरा   bipedal  ,  coming   somewhat  later .
The  गोरिल्ला  and  चिंपैंजी  diverged around the same time , about 4-6 million  सालो  ago , and either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin may be our  पिछला  shared  पूर्वज   साथ   उन्हें  .
the   जल्दी   bipedals  eventually evolved into  the  australopithecines and later the genus  होमो  .
The earliest documented  सदस्यों  of the genus Homo  हैं   होमो   habilis  which evolved around ;  the  earliest  प्रजाति  for which  वहीँ  is positive  प्रमाण   of  use of stone tools .
The brains of these early hominins were  परिचय  the same size as that of a chimpanzee .
During the next million years a  प्रक्रम  of encephalization began , and  साथ  the arrival of Homo erectus in the fossil record  ,  cranial capacity had doubled to 850 cm3  .
होमो   इरेक्टस  and Homo ergaster  यहूद  the first of  the  hominina  to  leave Africa , and these species spread through Africa , Asia , and  यूरोपीय  between .
It is believed  कि  these species were the first to use fire and complex tools .
According to the Recent African Ancestry  सिद्धान्त  ,  आधुनिक  humans evolved in Africa  संभवतः  from Homo heidelbergensis ,  होमो  rhodesiensis or Homo antecessor and migrated  आउट  of the continent  कुछ  50,000 to 100,000 years  पहले  ,  replacing  local  populations  of Homo erectus  ,  Homo denisova , Homo floresiensis and Homo  neanderthalensis  .
Archaic Homo sapiens , the  forerunner  of anatomically  आधुनिक  humans ,  विकसित  between 400,000 and  250,000  years  पहले  .
हाल  DNA evidence suggests that  अनेक  haplotypes of Neanderthal origin are present among  सब  non-African  populations  , and  neanderthals  and other hominids , such as Denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 %  of  their genome to present-day humans.  <   संदर्भ  name= ''  10.1126/science.1209202  '' > Anatomically modern humans  विकसित  from archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic  ,  about 200,000 years  पहले  .
The transition to behavioral modernity with the  विकास  of symbolic  संस्कृति  , language , and specialized lithic technology happened around 50,000 years ago according to many  विज्ञानियों  although  कुछ  suggest a gradual change in behavior over a longer time span .
Lisa Cuddy  ,  M.D  .  , is a fictional character on the Fox network medical drama House .
She is portrayed by Lisa Edelstein .
Cuddy was  the  Dean of  आयुर्विज्ञान  and hospital administrator of the fictional Princeton-Plainsboro Teaching Hospital in New  जर्सी  .
She also becomes House 's love  ब्याज  through the years to start a relationship with him in season seven .
Cuddy quit her job after the events of  ऋतु  seven  's  finale `` Moving On  ``  .
Track and field is  a  sport  comprising  various  प्रतिस्पर्धी  athletic contests based  on  running  ,  jumping ,  और  throwing .
The name  of  the sport derives from  the  competition venue : a  स्टेडियम   साथ  an oval running track around a grass field .
The throwing and jumping events generally take place  in  the central enclosed  क्षेत्रफल  .
track  and field falls under  the  umbrella sport of athletics , which  भी  includes road running , cross country running  ,  and race walking  .
The two most prestigious international track and field competitions are held  अंतर्गत  the banner of athletics : the athletics  प्रतियोगिता   at  the Olympic Games and the IAAF World Championships in Athletics .
The International Association of  एथलेटिक्स  Federations  is  the international governing body for track and field .
Track  और  field events are generally individual sports with  एथलीट  challenging each other to decide a single victor .
The racing  कार्यक्रम  are won by the athlete with the fastest time , while the  कूद   और  throwing  कार्यक्रम  are won  by  the athlete  जो   रै  achieved the greatest distance or height in the contest .
The running events are  categorised   as  sprints , middle and long-distance events ,  relays  , and  hurdling  .
Regular jumping events include long jump , triple jump ,  ऊँची  jump and pole  वॉल्ट  , while the  सबसे  common throwing  कार्यक्रम  are shot put , javelin , discus and  हथौड़ा  .
There are also `` combined  कार्यक्रम  '' ,  ऐसे  as  heptathlon  and  decathlon   ,  in which athletes  compete   in  a number of the above events .
Records are kept of the best performances  in   विशिष्ट  events  ,  at world and national levels , right down  to  a personal level .
however  , if athletes  हैं  deemed to have violated the  इवेंट  's  नियम   or  regulations  ,  they  हैं   disqualified  from the competition and their  marks  are erased .
In North America ,  the   पद  track  और  field  may  be used to refer  to  athletics in general ,  बल्कि  than specifically track and field events .
The Gulf  युद्ध  ( 2 August 1990  –  28 February 1991 ) , codenamed Operation Desert Storm ( 17 January  1991   –   28  February 1991  )  was a  युद्ध  waged by  a  U.N.-authorized Coalition  फ़ोर्स  from 34 nations led by the United States , against Iraq in response to Iraq 's invasion and annexation  of  Kuwait .
The war  is  also known under  अन्य  names , such as the Persian Gulf War  ,  First Gulf War , Gulf War  i   ,  or  the  First Iraq War , before the term `` Iraq War '' became identified  बजाय  with  the  2003  इराकी  War (  भी  referred to in the U.S. as ``  आपरेशन   इराकी  Freedom '' ) .
Kuwait 's invasion by Iraqi troops that began 2 August 1990 was  मिले  with international  condemnation  , and  brought  immediate economic sanctions against Iraq by members  of  the U.N. Security  परिषद  .
U.S. President George H. W. Bush deployed  u.S.  forces into  सऊदी  Arabia ,  और  urged other countries to send their own forces  to  the scene .
An array of nations  joined  the  गठबन्धन  .
The great  बहुमत  of the Coalition 's  सैन्य  forces  यहूद  from the U.S. , with Saudi Arabia , the  संयुक्त  Kingdom and Egypt as leading contributors , in that order .
Saudi Arabia paid around US $ 36  अरब  of the US $  60  billion  लागत  .
the  war was  चिह्नित  by the  शुरूआत  of live news on the front lines of the fight , with the primacy  of  the U.S.  संजाल  CNN .
the  war  रै   भी   अर्जित  the nickname Video Game War after the  रोज़  broadcast images on board the U.S. bombers  दौरान  Operation Desert  तूफ़ान  .
The initial conflict to expel Iraqi  सैनिकों   इससे  Kuwait  began  with an aerial  बमबारी   on  17 January 1991 .
इस  was followed by a ground assault on 24 February  .
इस   थी  a decisive victory  लिये  the Coalition forces  ,  who liberated  कुवैत  and advanced into Iraqi territory .
The Coalition ceased their advance  ,  and declared a cease-fire  100   घंटों  after the ground campaign  प्रारंभ  .
aerial   और  ground combat was confined to Iraq , Kuwait , and areas on  सऊदी  Arabia 's border .
Iraq launched Scud missiles against Coalition military targets in Saudi Arabia and  विरूद्ध   इसराईल  .
The nickel ,  in  American usage , is a  five-  cent  सिक्का  issued by  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   मिंट   .
Composed of 75 %  तांबे  and  25  % nickel , the piece has been struck since 1866 .
The  चांदी  half dime , equal to five  सेंट  , had been issued since  the  1790s .
The American Civil  युद्ध  caused  आर्थिक  hardship , driving  सुनहरा  and silver from circulation ; in response ,  in  place of low-value  सिक्के  , the  सरकारी  at first  जारी  paper currency  .
In 1865 ,  कॉंग्रेस   abolished  the five-cent  fractional  currency note after Spencer  M.  Clark , head of the Currency Bureau  (  today  the  Bureau of Engraving and Printing ) , placed his  अपना   पोर्ट्रेट   on  the denomination .
After  कामयाब  introduction of two-cent and three-cent pieces , without precious metal  ,  Congress also  प्राधिकृत  a five-cent piece consisting of  आधार  metal ; the Mint began  striking  this version in 1866 .
The initial design of  the  Shield nickel was struck until 1883  ,  then  replaced  by the  स्वतंत्रता  Head nickel .
The  भैंस  nickel  थी   introduced   in  1913 as part  of  a drive to increase the  सौंदर्य  of American coinage ; in  1938  , the Jefferson nickel followed .
In 2004  और  2005  ,  special designs in honor of the bicentennial of the Lewis and  क्लार्क  Expedition were issued .
In 2006 , the Mint reverted  to  using Jefferson nickel designer Felix Schlag 's original reverse ( or `` tails '' side  )  , although a new  obverse  , by Jamie Franki , was substituted .
As  of   2013  , it costs  अधिक   than  eleven cents to produce a nickel ; the Mint is exploring  the  possibility of reducing cost by using less expensive metals .
A poster with flowers  or   क्लस्टर  of flowers  उत्पादित   by  twelve species of flowering plants from different families
A flower , sometimes known as  a  bloom  or  blossom , is the reproductive structure found in flowering plants ( plants of the division  magnoliophyta  , also called angiosperms ) .
The  biological  function of a  पुष्प  is to effect  जनन  , usually by  providing  a mechanism for the union of  शुक्राणु  with eggs .
Flowers  may  facilitate outcrossing ( fusion of sperm and eggs from  अलग  individuals  in   a  population ) or allow selfing  (  fusion of  शुक्राणु  and egg from the same  पुष्प   )   .
Some flowers produce diaspores without fertilization ( parthenocarpy ) .
Flowers contain  sporangia  and are the site  जहाँ   gametophytes  develop .
Flowers give  वृद्धि  to fruit and seeds .
Many flowers have  विकसित  to  be  attractive to animals ,  so  as to cause them to be vectors for the transfer of pollen .
In addition to  facilitating  the reproduction of flowering plants , flowers have long been  admired  and used by humans  to  beautify their environment  ,  and  भी  as objects of romance  ,  ritual , religion  ,  medicine and as a source of food .
The McDonnell Douglas ( now Boeing ) F-15 Eagle is a  twin-engine  ,  all-weather   रणनीतिक   सेनानी  designed by  mcdonnell  Douglas  to  gain and  maintain  air superiority in  aerial  combat .
It is considered among  the  most successful modern fighters , with over 100 aerial combat victories with no losses in dogfights .
Following reviews  of  proposals , the  संयुक्त  States Air Force  चयनित  McDonnell Douglas  '  design in  1967  to  मिलें  the service 's  need  for a dedicated  एयर  superiority  सेनानी  .
The Eagle first flew  in   जुलाई  1972 , and entered service in 1976  .
चूंकि   the   1970s   ,   the  Eagle has been exported to  इसराईल  ,  जापानी  , Saudi  अरब   ,  and other  राष्ट्र  .
the  F-15 was originally envisioned  as  a pure  एयर  superiority aircraft .
इसके  design  शामिल   a  secondary ground-attack capability that was largely  अप्रयुक्त  .
The design  proved  flexible enough that an all-weather strike derivative , the F-15E  स्ट्राइक  Eagle , was later  विकसित   ,  and entered service in 1989 .
The F-15 Eagle is  अपेक्षित  to be  in   सेवा  with the  u.S.   एयर  Force  पास्ट   2025  .
Mimio is a brand  नाम  of a line of technology products aimed at the  शिक्षा  market .
The primary products  हैं  focused around computer whiteboard interactive teaching devices .
MimioCapture devices also allow  उपयोक्ता  to capture all of  the  ink  स्ट्रोक्स   कि  are written on the whiteboard .
जब  used in  संयोजन  with a video  प्रोजेक्टर   it  turns the ordinary whiteboard surface into a fully interactive whiteboard .
the  product line was originally designed  by  Virtual Ink  .
On October 4 , 2006 Newell Rubbermaid acquired the Mimio interactive  whiteboard  ( iWB ) product line .
Rahab of Jericho
Rahab , ( ; ;  )  was  ,  according to the  किताब  of Joshua ,  a   स्त्री  who lived  in  Jericho in the  promised  Land and assisted the  israelites  in capturing the  नगर  .
nearly   सब  English translations  of  Joshua describe her  as   a  harlot or prostitute .
The Organization of  अमरीकी  States ( Spanish : Organización de los Estados Americanos , Portuguese : Organização  डॉस  Estados Americanos  ,  French : Organisation des États américains ) , or the OAS , is  a  regional international organization .
The  oas  was  संस्थापित  on 30 April 1948 , and has its  मुख्यालय  in Washington , D.C. , United States .
Its members are the 35 independent  राज्य   of  the  americas  .
Since 26 May 2005 , the Secretary General of  oas  has been José Miguel Insulza .
Christopher Columbus (  इतालवी  : Cristoforo Colombo ; Spanish : Cristóbal Colón ; Portuguese : Cristóvão Colombo ; before  31  October  145120   may  1506  )   थी   an  Italian explorer , navigator , and  colonizer   ,   born   in  the Republic of Genoa , in what  is  today northwestern  इटली  .
Under the auspices of the Catholic Monarchs of Spain  ,  he completed  चार  voyages  आरपार   the  Atlantic Ocean that  led   to  general European awareness  of   the  American continents .
those  voyages , and his efforts to establish permanent settlements on  the  island of  हिस्पानिओला   ,   initiated  the Spanish colonization of  the   नई   संसार  .
In the context of emerging western imperialism and economic competition between European kingdoms seeking wealth  through  the  स्थापना  of trade routes and colonies , Columbus 's speculative proposal ,  to  reach the East Indies by sailing westward , eventually received the support of  the  Spanish crown ,  जिससे  saw  in   it  a promise , however  रिमोट  , of  gaining  the upper hand over  प्रतिद्वंद्वी  powers in the contest  लिये  the lucrative spice trade  साथ  Asia .
During his  पहला  voyage  in  1492 , instead of  reaching  Japan  as  he had  intended  ,  कोलंबस   उतरा  in the Bahamas archipelago , at a locale he named San Salvador .
Over  the  course of three more voyages , Columbus visited the Greater and Lesser  antilles  ,  as  well as  the  Caribbean coast of  वेनेजुएला   और   सेंट्रल  America ,  claiming   उन्हें  for the Spanish Empire  .
Though Columbus was not the first European explorer to  पहुँचें  the  americas  (  having  been preceded by the Norse expedition led by Leif Ericson in the 11th century )  ,   कोलंबस   's  voyages  led  to the  पहला  lasting  यूरोपीय  contact with the Americas ,  inaugurating  a period of European exploration , conquest , and colonization  कि  lasted for several centuries .
वे  had , therefore , an  विशाल   प्रभाव   in  the historical development of the modern Western world .
कोलंबस  himself saw  उसके   accomplishments  primarily in the light of the spreading of the Christian religion .
Never admitting that he had reached a  महाद्वीप  previously unknown to Europeans , rather than the East Indies he had set out  लिये   ,   कोलंबस  called the inhabitants of  the  lands he visited indios ( Spanish for ``  इंडियंस  `` ) .
Columbus 's strained  संबंध  with the Spanish crown  और   इसके  appointed colonial administrators in America led to his  गिरफ़्तार   और  dismissal as governor of the settlements on  the  island of Hispaniola in  1500  , and later to protracted litigation over  the   लाभ   जिससे  Columbus and his  वारिस  claimed were owed to  उन्हें   by  the crown .
Bred in Germany , the Boxer is a breed  of  stocky , medium-sized , short-haired dogs .
The coat  is  smooth and  tight-fitting  ; colors  हैं  fawn or brindled ,  साथ  or without white markings , which may cover  the  entire  देह  .
Boxers are brachycephalic ( they  have  broad , short skulls )  ,  and have a square  muzzle  ,  mandibular   prognathism  ( an underbite  )  , very strong jaws  ,  and  a  powerful  काटना  ideal for hanging on  to  large  शिकार  .
The Boxer was bred from the Old  अंग्रेज़ी  Bulldog and the now  विलुप्त  Bullenbeisser , and is  भाग  of the Molosser group .
Boxers  यहूद  first exhibited in  a  dog show for St. Bernards in Munich in 1895 , the first Boxer  क्लबों  being founded the next year  .
Based on 2012 American Kennel Club statistics ,  मुक्केबाज  held  स्थिर  as the seventh most  लोकप्रिय  breed of dog in the United  राज्य  for the third consecutive year .
सीरियल  ATA ( SATA ) is a computer bus interface that connects host  बस  adapters to mass storage devices such  as  hard disk  ड्राइव  and optical drives  .
Serial ATA  replaces  the older AT Attachment standard ( ATA ;  बाद  referred to as Parallel  ata  or PATA ) , offering several  लाभ   over   the  older interface : reduced cable size and cost ( seven conductors instead of 40 ) , native hot swapping  ,  faster data transfer through higher signalling rates , and  अधिक  efficient transfer through an ( optional ) I/O  queuing  protocol .
SATA host adapters and  डिवाइस  communicate via a high-speed serial cable over  दो  pairs of conductors .
in  contrast  ,  parallel ATA  (  the  redesignation  for the legacy ATA specifications ) used a 16-bit wide data bus with many additional support  और  control signals , all  ऑपरेटिंग  at much lower frequency .
To  ensure   पिछड़ा  compatibility with  विरासत   ata  software and applications , SATA uses the same basic ATA and ATAPI command-set  as  legacy ATA devices .
SATA has replaced parallel ATA in  उपभोक्ता  desktop and laptop computers , and has largely replaced PATA in new embedded applications .
SATA  's   मार्केट   share  in the desktop PC market  थी  99 % in 2008 .
pata  remains widely used in industrial and embedded applications that  उपयोग  CompactFlash storage , even though the  नई  CFast standard  is   आधारित  on SATA .
Serial ATA industry compatibility  विशेषताएँ  originate from The Serial  ata  International Organization ( aka .
SATA-IO ,  serialata.org  )  .
The SATA-IO  समूह  collaboratively creates , reviews ,  ratifies  , and  publishes  the interoperability specifications , the test cases  ,  and plug-fests .
as   साथ  many  अन्य   उद्योग  compatibility standards  ,  the SATA content ownership is transferred  to  other industry bodies : primarily  the   incits  T13 subcommittee ATA  ,  the INCITS T10 subcommittee ( SCSI ) ; a subgroup of  t10  responsible for  सीरियल   संलग्न  SCSI (  sas  ) .
The  पूरा  specification from SATA-IO .
The remainder of this  आलेख  will try to use the terminology and specifications of  sata-io  .
The history of  the  Internet began  साथ  the  विकास   of  electronic computers in  the  1950s .
the   पब्लिक  was  पहला  introduced  to   the  concepts that would lead to  the   अंतरजाल  when a message was sent over  the  ARPANet from computer science  प्राध्यापक  Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University of California ,  लॉस  Angeles ( UCLA ) ,  बाद   the   दूसरी  piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford  शोध  Institute ( SRI ) .
पैकेट  switched networks such as ARPANET , Mark I at  npl   in  the UK , CYCLADES ,  मेरिट   संजाल  , Tymnet , and  telenet  , were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s using  a  variety of protocols .
The  arpanet  in particular  led   to  the development of protocols for internetworking ,  in  which multiple separate networks could  be  joined together into a network of networks .
In 1982 , the Internet protocol suite  (   tcp/ip  )  थी  standardized , and consequently , the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected  tcp/ip  networks ,  पुकारा   the  Internet , was introduced .
अभिगम  to the ARPANET was  विस्तारित  in  1981  when the National Science  न्यास  ( NSF )  विकसित  the Computer Science Network ( CSNET  )   और  again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States  इससे   शोध  and education organizations .
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs )  began  to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s .
the  ARPANET was decommissioned  in  1990  .
the  Internet was commercialized in 1995  जब   nsfnet   थी   decommissioned  , removing the last  प्रतिबंध  on the use of  the  Internet  to  carry commercial traffic  .
Since  the  mid-1990s , the Internet  रै  had a revolutionary impact on culture  और  commerce , including the rise  of  near-instant communication  by  electronic mail , instant messaging , Voice over Internet Protocol  (   voip  ) `` phone calls ''  ,  two-way interactive video calls , and the World Wide Web with  इसके  discussion  forums  ,  ब्लॉग  ,  सोशल  networking ,  और  online shopping sites .
The  शोध  and education community continues to  develop  and use  उन्नत  networks such  as  NSF  's  very high speed  रीढ़  Network Service ( vBNS ) , Internet2 , and National LambdaRail .
Increasing  amounts  of data  हैं  transmitted at higher and higher speeds  over  fiber optic networks operating at  1-gbit/s  , 10-Gbit/s  ,  or more .
the  Internet  's  takeover over the global communication landscape was  लगभग  instant in historical terms  :  it only communicated 1  %  of the information flowing through two-way telecommunications networks in the  साल  1993 , already 51 % by 2000 , and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007  .
Today  the   अंतरजाल  continues to grow , driven by  कभी  greater amounts of  ऑनलाइन  information , commerce , entertainment  ,  and  सोशल   नेटवर्किंग  .
the   तोहफा  is  the  second album  by  Scottish singer Susan Boyle  ,   जिससे  was  released  on 8 November 2010  .
Boyle  hinted  that the album  रै  a  1960s  feel `` because that was [ her  ]  era  ''  .
on   30  November 2011  ,  the album received a  नामांकन  in 54th Grammy Awards  लिये  Best Traditional Pop  गायन  Album .
`` This Is Just To Say '' ( 1934 ) is  a  famous imagist poem  by  William Carlos Williams .
Professor  ऐल्बस  Percival Wulfric  ब्रायन  Dumbledore is a major character and protagonist of J. K.  रोलिंग   's  Harry Potter series .
लिये  most of  the  series , he is the headmaster of  the   wizarding  school Hogwarts .
as   भाग  of his backstory , it is  नाज़िल  that he  is  the founder and leader of the Order of  the  Phoenix ,  an  organisation  समर्पित   to  fighting the main  विपक्षी  of the series  ,   रब  Voldemort .
डम्बल्डोर  is portrayed by Richard Harris in the film adaptions of Harry Potter and the Philosopher  's  Stone and Harry Potter  और  the Chamber of Secrets  .
बाद   हैरिस  ' death  ,  Michael Gambon portrayed Dumbledore for all of the remaining films .
Rowling  stated  she chose the name Dumbledore , which is  an   जल्दी  Modern English word for  ``  bumblebee `` , because  of  Dumbledore 's love of music : she imagined him walking around `` humming to himself a lot  ''  .
Calcitonin ( also known as  thyrocalcitonin  ) is a 32-amino acid  रैखिक  polypeptide hormone that is produced in humans primarily by  the  parafollicular cells ( also known as C-cells )  of  the thyroid , and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial body .
it  acts to reduce  रक्त  calcium ( Ca2+ ) , opposing the effects of  parathyroid  hormone ( PTH ) .
calcitonin  has been found in fish , reptiles  ,  birds  ,  and mammals .
Its importance in  इंसानो  has not been as well established as its importance in other animals , as its  फलन  is usually not significant in the regulation  of   सामान्य  calcium homeostasis .
It belongs to calcitonin-like protein family .
A mousepad with a padded wrist rest .
A mousepad ( US ) or mouse mat ( UK ) is a surface for placing and  चलती   a  computer  चूहा  .
A  mousepad  enhances the usability of the mouse compared to using  a  mouse directly  on  a table by  providing  a surface to allow the tracking LED or ball ( in former models  )  to measure movement accurately and  बगैर  jitter .
Some mousepads increase ergonomics  by  providing a padded wrist rest .
the  stadium seen from  ऊपर   in  1980
December 29 , 2002 implosion
The Riverfront Stadium site  in  June , 2006 .
This photo was taken from the western concourse of  ग्रेट  American Ball Park .
A small portion of the Riverfront Stadium  साईट   is  now occupied by the Reds ' Hall of Fame and Museum and Main Street , which was extended when the new park was  निर्मित   .
the  Cincinnati Bengals ' Paul  भूरा   स्टेडियम  is in  the   अलहदा  .
Riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ) ,  बाद  known as Cinergy Field (  1996–2002  ) ,  थी   the  home of the Cincinnati Reds National League baseball team and the Cincinnati  bengals   नेशनल  Football League team  .
Located on the  ओहियो  River in downtown Cincinnati ,  the  stadium was best  ज्ञात  as the home of `` The Big  रेड   यंत्र  `` , as  the  Reds were often called  in  the 1970s .
निर्माण  began  on  February 1 , 1968 ,  और  was completed at  a  cost of less than $ 50  लाख   .
On June 30  ,  1970 , the  लाल   hosted   the   अटलांटा  Braves in  उनके  grand opening , with Hank Aaron hitting  the  first  कभी   घर  run at Riverfront  .
दो  weeks later on July  14   ,  1970 ,  riverfront  hosted the 1970  प्रमुख   लीग  Baseball All-Star  खेल  .
This game is  बेहतरीन   remembered  for the often-replayed collision  at  home plate between Reds  स्टार  Pete Rose  और  catcher Ray Fosse of the  क्लीवलैंड  Indians .
In September 1996 , Riverfront Stadium was  renamed  `` Cinergy Field '' in a  प्रायोजन  deal with Greater Cincinnati 's  उर्जा  company , Cinergy Corporation .
In 2001  ,  to make  रूम   लिये  Great American Ball  पार्क   ,  the seating capacity at Cinergy Field was reduced to 39,000 .
There was  a   विशाल  wall in Center Field visible after the renovations , to serve  as  the batter 's  नजर  .
the  stadium was demolished by  implosion  on  दिसम्बर  29 ,  2002  .
Nexen Tire is  a   टायर  manufacturer , headquartered  in  Yangsan ,  दक्षिण  Gyeongsang Province , and Seoul , both in  दक्षिण  Korea .
Its major  घरेलू  competitors are  hankook  Tire and Kumho  टायर  .
The  कम्पनी  's name  is  reflected in the company slogan  ,  `` Next Century Tire .  ''
The silent  बहुमत  is an unspecified  विशाल  majority of  लोगों   in   a  country  or   समूह  who do not express their opinions  सरेआम  .
the  term was popularized ( though not first  प्रयुक्त  ) by  u.S.   अध्यक्ष  Richard Nixon in  a   नवम्बर  3 , 1969 , speech  in  which he said , ``  और  so  tonight—to  you  ,   the   ग्रेट   मूक   बहुमत  of my fellow Americans—I ask for your  support  . ''
in  this usage it  referred  to those Americans who did not join in  the   विशाल  demonstrations against the Vietnam War at  the  time  ,  who did not join in  the  counterculture , and who did not participate in public discourse .
Nixon  साथ   साथ  many  अन्य   देखी   इस  group of Middle Americans as being overshadowed in the media by the more vocal minority .
the  phrase was  प्रयुक्त  in the  19th  century  as  a euphemism referring  to  all the people  जो  have died  ,  and others have used  it  before  और  after Nixon to refer to groups of voters in various nations of the  संसार  .
Sam ,  a  rhesus  मंकी  , flew to an altitude  of   88   km  in 1959 .
( NASA )
Before humans went into  स्पेस  , several animals were  शुभारम्भ  into space ,  सहित  numerous monkeys ,  so  that scientists could investigate  the  biological  प्रभाव  of space travel  .
The United States launched flights containing primate cargo primarily between  1948-1961  with  एक  flight  in  1969  और  one in 1985 .
France launched two monkey-carrying  फ़्लाइट  in 1967 .
the   सोवियत  Union and Russia launched  बंदरों  between 1983 and 1996 .
Most monkeys  यहूद  anesthetized before lift-off .
Overall thirty-two monkeys flew in the space program ;  none  flew more  than  once .
Numerous  back-up  monkeys also went through the  कार्यक्रम  but never flew .
Monkeys from  अनेक  species  यहूद  used  ,  including rhesus monkeys , cynomolgus monkeys ,  गिलहरी  monkeys  ,  and  pig-tailed  macaques .
Some chimpanzees ( which are apes rather than  बंदरों   )  were also used  .
RAID ( redundant array of independent  डिस्क  , originally  अनावश्यक  array of inexpensive  डिस्क  ) is a storage  प्रौद्योगिकी   कि  combines multiple disk drive components into a logical unit .
Data is  वितरित  across the drives in  एक  of several ways called ``  रेड  levels  ''  , depending on the  स्तर   of  redundancy and performance required  .
the  term  ``  RAID '' was first defined by David  पैटरसन  , Garth A. Gibson , and Randy Katz  at  the University of California ,  बर्कली  in 1987 .
Marketers representing  उद्योग  RAID manufacturers later attempted to reinvent  the  term to describe  a  redundant array  of  independent disks as  a  means of disassociating  a  low-cost  अपेक्षा  from RAID technology .
रेड  is now used  as  an  छतरियाँ  term for computer data storage  योजनाएं  that can  divide  and replicate data among multiple physical drives : RAID is an example of storage virtualization and the array can  be  accessed by  the  operating system as one single  ड्राइव  .
The different schemes or  architectures  are named by the  शब्द  RAID followed by a  क्रमांक  ( e.g . RAID 0  ,  RAID  1  ) .
प्रत्येक   योजना  provides a different  संतुलन  between the key goals : reliability and  उपलब्धता  , performance and capacity .
RAID  स्तर  greater than  रेड  0 provide protection against unrecoverable ( sector ) read errors ,  as  well as whole disk failure .
A  lymphocyte  is a type  of  white blood cell in the vertebrate immune system .
Under the microscope  ,   lymphocytes  can be  विभाजित  into large lymphocytes  और  small lymphocytes  .
Large granular lymphocytes include natural killer cells ( NK cells  )  .
छोटी  lymphocytes consist of T cells and B cells .
The Big Lebowski is a 1998 dark comedy  फिल्मी  written and directed by Joel  और  Ethan  कोएन  .
Jeff Bridges stars as Jeff Lebowski ,  an  unemployed Los Angeles slacker and avid bowler , nicknamed `` The Dude  .   ''
After a case of mistaken identity  ,  The Dude is introduced to a millionaire  भी  named Jeffrey Lebowski .
When the millionaire Lebowski  's   ट्रॉफी   बीवी   is   बाद  kidnapped , he  आयोग  The Dude to deliver the ransom to secure her  रिलीज   .
The  योजना  goes awry  जब  The Dude 's friend Walter Sobchak ( John Goodman ) schemes to keep the  पूरा  ransom .
Steve Buscemi ,  फिलिप  Seymour Hoffman , David Huddleston  ,  Julianne Moore  ,   tara   reid  , and John Turturro  भी  star in  the   फिल्मी   ,   जिससे   is  narrated by a cowboy known only  as  `` The  अजनबी  '' , played  by  Sam Elliott  .
The  फिल्मी  is loosely inspired by the work of Raymond  चांडलर   .
Joel Coen stated : `` We wanted to do a  चांडलर  kind of story – how  it  moves episodically ,  और  deals with the characters trying to  सुलझाना   a  mystery ,  as   खूब   as  having a hopelessly complex  प्लाट  that 's ultimately unimportant  .  ''
The original score  थी  composed by Carter Burwell , a  longtime  collaborator of the Coen Brothers .
the  Big  lebowski  was  a  disappointment at the U.S. box  दफ्तर   और  received  मिश्रित  reviews at the time of  इसके  release  .
समीक्षाएँ  have trended towards  the   धनात्मक   over  time , and  the   फिल्मी  has  become  a  cult   पसंदीदा  , noted for its idiosyncratic characters , dream sequences ,  unconventional  dialogue ,  और  eclectic soundtrack .
Severus Snape is a fictional character in the Harry Potter book series  लिखा   by  J.K. Rowling  .
In  the   पहला  novel of  the  series  ,  he is hostile toward Harry  और  is built  up  to  be  the  प्राथमिक  antagonist until the final  अध्याय  .
As  the  series progresses , Snape 's  अक्षर  becomes more  परतदार   और  complex .
Rowling does not fully  खुलासा   the  details of his true loyalties until the end of the  फाइनल  book , Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows .
Over the course of  the  series  ,  Snape 's portrayal evolves  इससे  that of  a  malicious and  दलगत  teacher to that of a  pivotal  character of considerable  जटिलता  and moral ambiguity .
snape  primarily teaches Potions at Hogwarts , though in  the   छठे  novel  he  teaches Defence Against the Dark Arts  ,  a  स्थिति   जिससे  he was known to have desired throughout the series .
He  ultimately  becomes Headmaster  of  Hogwarts in the final novel .
Rowling  रै   वर्णित  him as ``  a  gift of  a  character  ''  .
Grits  refers  to  a  ground-corn  खाना   of  Native American origin , that is  आम  in the Southern United  राज्य   और   मुख्यतः  eaten at breakfast  .
Modern grits  हैं  commonly made of alkali-treated corn known as hominy .
grits  are similar to other thick  maize-based  porridges from around the world such  as  polenta or the thinner  farina  .
`` Instant grits ''  have  been processed to speed cooking  .
The word  ``  grits ''  गर्भाशयी  from the  बूढ़ा   अंग्रेज़ी   शब्द  `` grytt ,  ''  meaning coarse meal .
This word originally referred to wheat and  अन्य  porridges now known as  groats  in parts of  the   u.K..
Maize , unknown in Europe in  the  Middle Ages ,  is  a food derived from corn ( a New  संसार   संयंत्र   )  and ``  मकई  '' had been used to describe wheat products  in  many  यूरोपीय  regions  .
`` Grits  ''  may be either singular  or   बहुवचन  ; historically ,  in  the American South the  शब्द  was invariably singular notwithstanding its plural form ( cf  .   ऐसे  food  names  as `` spaghetti '' or `` linguine '' , likewise plural in form ,  लकिन  singular in use  )  .
sometimes  ,  grits  are  पुकारा  sofkee or sofkey ( from a  देशी  American Muskogee word  )  .
In molecular biology , human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized egg after conception .
Later during  गर्भावस्था  it is made by the developing placenta , and later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast .
Some  cancerous  tumors  उपज  this hormone ;  इसलिए   ,  elevated levels measured when the patient is not pregnant  can  lead to a cancer diagnosis .
However  ,  it  is  not known whether this  उत्पादन   is  a  contributing  cause or  an  effect of tumorigenesis .
The  pituitary  analogue of hCG , known as luteinizing hormone ( LH ) , is produced in the pituitary gland of males and females of  सब  ages .
, the  एफडीए  has prohibited the  बिक्री  of  ``  homeopathic ''  और  over the counter hCG  आहार  products and declared them  बेईमान  and illegal .
The Las  वेगास  Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores , restaurants , and vending machines in every country except Cuba and  उत्तर   कोरियाई  .
it  is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of  अटलांटा  , Georgia , and is often referred to simply as  कोक  ( a registered trademark  of  The Coca-Cola Company in  the  United States since March 27 ,  1944   )  .
Originally intended as a patent medicine  जब   it  was invented in the  लेट   19th  century by John Pemberton ,  coca-cola  was  खरीदा  out by businessman  asa  Griggs Candler , whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance  of  the  संसार  soft-drink  मार्केट  throughout  the  20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is then  बेची  to  licensed   coca-cola  bottlers throughout the  संसार  .
The bottlers , who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company  ,   उपज  finished product  in   डिब्बे  and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
The  bottlers   तब  sell  ,   वितरित  and merchandise Coca-Cola to  खुदरा   स्टोर्स  and vending  मशीने  .
Such bottlers include  coca-cola  Enterprises , which is the largest  सिंगल  Coca-Cola bottler in North America and  पश्चिमी  Europe .
the  Coca-Cola Company also  बिकता  concentrate for soda fountains to major restaurants and  खाना  service distributors .
The  coca-cola  Company  रै  , on occasion ,  introduced  other cola drinks under  the  Coke brand name  .
The most common  of  these is Diet Coke  ,  with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola , Diet Coke Caffeine-Free  ,   coca-cola  Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero , Coca-Cola  वैनिला  , and special  संस्करण  with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on Interbrand 's best global  ब्रांड   2011  ,  coca-cola   थी  the  संसार   's   सबसे  valuable brand  .
An ombudsman is an official , usually appointed by the  सरकारी  or by  पार्लियामेंट   लकिन  with a significant degree  of  independence , who  is  charged with representing the interests  of  the public by investigating and addressing complaints of  maladministration  or violation of rights .
In some countries an Inspector General ,  नागरिक   एडवोकेट  or other official may  have  duties similar to those  of  a national ombudsman  ,  and may  भी  be appointed by the legislature .
नीचे   the  national level an ombudsman may be appointed by  a  state , local or municipal government , and unofficial ombudsmen may be appointed  by  , or even work for , a corporation  ऐसे  as a utility supplier or a newspaper , for an NGO  ,  or  लिये   a   पेशेवर  regulatory  देह   .
whether   नियुक्त  by the legislature ,  the  executive , or an organization ( or , less frequently , elected by the  constituency  that he or she  serves  )  ,  the typical duties of an ombudsman  हैं  to investigate complaints and attempt to  निराकरण  them ,  प्रायः  through recommendations ( binding  or  not ) or  मध्यस्थता  .
Ombudsmen sometimes also aim to identify systemic issues leading to poor service  or  breaches of  लोगों  's rights .
At  the  national  स्तर   ,  most ombudsmen have a wide mandate to deal with the entire public sector  ,  and sometimes also elements of the private sector ( for example , contracted service providers ) .
In  कुछ  cases ,  वहीँ  is a  अधिक  restricted mandate , for example  साथ  particular sectors of  समाज  .
More  हाल  developments have  शामिल  the  सृष्टि  of specialised Children 's Ombudsman and  सूचना  Commissioner  एजेंसियों  .
In some jurisdictions an ombudsman charged with the handling of concerns  परिचय  national government  is  more formally  referred  to as  the  `` Parliamentary Commissioner '' ( e.g . the United  किंगडम  Parliamentary  कमिश्नर  for  प्रशासन  , and the Western Australian state Ombudsman ) .
In many countries where the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing with  कथित  maladministration to  promoting  and  protecting  human  अधिकारों   ,   the  ombudsman is recognised  as   the  national human  अधिकारों  institution .
the  post of  ombudsman   था  by the end of  the  20th century been instituted by most  सरकारें  and by some intergovernmental organizations such as the European  संघ  .
Making a complaint  to  an ombudsman is usually free  of  charge  .
चिह्न  at Georgetown University Washington  dc
Sign in Banjul , The Gambia
Autumn  in  New England , watercolor , Maurice Prendergast .
Ca .  1910–1913
पतन  foliage in the town of Stowe , Vermont
New England  is  a region in  the  northeastern  कोने  of the United States consisting  of  the six states of Maine  ,  New Hampshire , Vermont , Massachusetts ,  rhode   द्वीप  , and Connecticut .
New England is bordered by New York state to the southwest , Quebec  to  the northwest , and New Brunswick and the Atlantic Ocean to the  ईस्ट  .
In one of the earliest English settlements in North America , Pilgrims from England first settled in New  इंग्लैण्ड   in  1620 , to form Plymouth Colony  .
Ten years later , the Puritans  settled  north  of  Plymouth Colony in Boston , thus forming Massachusetts Bay Colony .
Over the  अगला  130 years , New England fought  in  four French and Indian Wars , until the  अंग्रेजों  defeated the French and their native allies  in  North America .
in  the late 18th century , the New England Colonies initiated the resistance to the  अंग्रेजों  Parliament 's efforts to impose new taxes without the consent of the colonists .
The Boston Tea Party was a protest to which Great  ब्रिटेन   responded   साथ  a series of punitive laws stripping Massachusetts of self-government , which were termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists  .
the  confrontation led  to  open  warfare  in 1775  ,  the expulsion of  the  British authorities from New England in spring 1776 , and  the  Declaration of  स्वतंत्रता   in  July 1776 .
कुछ  of  the  first movements  of   अमरीकी  literature  ,  philosophy , and education originated in New England  .
The region played  a  prominent role in the movement to abolish slavery ,  और  was the  पहला  region  of  the United States to be transformed by the Industrial Revolution .
Today  ,  New England is  a  major world center of education ,  ऊँची  technology ,  बीमे  ,  और  medicine .
बोस्टन   is  its cultural ,  वित्तीय  , educational ,  चिकित्सा  and transportation center .
Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated municipalities known  as  New England towns  ,  which are  प्रायः  governed by town  बैठक  .
the   तभी  unincorporated territory in New England exists in the  sparse  , northern regions of Vermont , New Hampshire  ,  and Maine .
Since 1970 , voters have  अधिक  often  समर्थित  liberal candidates at  the  state and federal level than  those  of any other region in the  संयुक्त  States .
New  इंग्लैण्ड  is the  तभी  one  of   the  United States Census Bureau 's nine regional  विभाजन   जिनकी  name  करता  not derive from  इसके  geography , and it is the only multi-state region with clear ,  सतत  boundaries .
It maintains a strong sense of cultural  पहचान  set  अलावा  from the rest of the country  ,  although the terms of this identity are often  लडे  , combining Puritanism  साथ   उदारतावाद  , agrarian life  साथ   उद्योग  , and  अलगाव  with immigration .
Emergency !
is  an American television series that combines  the  medical drama  और  action-adventure  जाति  .
It was produced by  चिह्नित  VII Limited and distributed  by  Universal Studios .
It debuted as a  midseason  replacement on  जनवरी  15 ,  1972  ,  on  NBC  ,  replacing the  दो  short-lived series  the  Partners  और  The Good Life ,  और  ran until September  3  , 1977  ,  with  छह  additional two-hour  टेलीविज़न   films  during the following two  सालो   .
Emergency !
थी  created and produced by Jack Webb  और  Robert A. Cinader , both of whom were also  जिम्मेदार  for the police  dramas  Adam-12 and Dragnet .
The  पूर्वी  Time  मण्डल  ( ET ) encompasses 17 U.S. states in the eastern part of  the   संलग्न  United States , parts of Canada and three countries in South America .
Places that use  पूर्वी  Standard Time ( EST )  जब   observing  standard  समय  ( autumn/winter ) are 5 hours  पीछे  Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
Eastern  daylight   समय  ( EDT ) , when observing daylight  छायांकन  time ( spring/summer ) is 4 hours behind  समन्वित  Universal Time ( ) .
In the  उत्तरी  parts of the time zone , during  the   दूसरी  Sunday in  कूच  , at 2:00 a.m.  est  , clocks are advanced to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a one hour `` gap .  ''
During the first Sunday in  नवम्बर  , at  2:00  a.m. EDT , clocks are moved back  to  1:00 a.m. EST , thus `` duplicating '' one hour .
Southern parts  of  the zone ( Panama and  the  Caribbean ) do not observe daylight saving .
Standard form of the periodic table  .
the  colors  represent  different categories of elements explained below .
The periodic table is a tabular display of  the  chemical elements , organized on  the  basis  of  their atomic numbers , electron configurations , and recurring chemical properties  .
Elements are presented in  अनुक्रम  of increasing atomic number ( number of  protons  ) .
The standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or  प्रमुख  body of elements , positioned above a smaller double row  of  elements .
The table can also be deconstructed  into  four rectangular blocks : the  s-block  to the left  ,  the p-block to the right ,  the  d-block in the middle , and  the  f-block below that  .
The rows  of  the table are called periods ;  the   कालम  of  the  s- ,  d-  , and p-blocks  हैं  called groups , with some of these  having  names such  as  the halogens or  the   प्रतिष्ठित   गैसों  .
Since , by definition , a periodic table incorporates recurring trends , any such table can be used to derive relationships  between  the  गुण   of  the elements and predict the properties of new , yet to be discovered or synthesized , elements .
As a result  ,  a periodic table—whether  in  the standard form or some other variant—provides a useful  फ्रेमवर्क  for analyzing  रासायनिक  behavior , and  ऐसे  tables are widely used in chemistry and  अन्य  sciences .
Although precursors exist ,  dmitri  Mendeleev is generally credited with the publication , in 1869 ,  of  the first  widely   पहचाना  periodic  तालिका  .
he  developed his table to illustrate periodic trends  in  the properties  of  the then-known elements  .
mendeleev  also predicted  कुछ  properties of then-unknown elements that  होता  be  अपेक्षित  to  भरण   गैप  in this table .
Most of his predictions  यहूद  proved correct  जब  the  तत्व   in  question were subsequently discovered .
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded and refined with the discovery  or  synthesis of further new elements and the development of  नई  theoretical models to explain chemical  बर्ताव  .
सब  elements from  परमाणु  numbers 1 (  हाइड्रोजन  )  to   118  ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or  synthesized  .
the  elements from  1   to  98  (  californium ) have been found to exist naturally ,  हालांकि  some are found only in trace amounts  और  were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories  .
The  तत्व  after 98 have  तभी  been  synthesized   in  laboratories .
Production of elements  परे  ununoctium is  होने  pursued ,  साथ   the  question of how the periodic  तालिका  may need  to  be modified to accommodate any such additions being a matter of ongoing  बहस   .
numerous  synthetic radionuclides  of  naturally occurring elements have also been produced in laboratories .
Minecraft is a sandbox  इंडी  game originally created by Swedish programmer  markus   ``   पायदान  ''  persson  and later developed and published  by  Mojang  .
it   थी  publicly released  लिये  the  pc  on  may   17  , 2009  ,  as a  developmental  alpha version and  ,  after gradual updates , was published as a full release version  on  November 18 , 2011 .
A  संस्करण  for  एंड्रॉइड  was released a  माह  earlier on  अक्तूबर   7  , and an iOS version was released on November 17 ,  2011  .
On May 9 , 2012 ,  the   खेल  was released  on  Xbox 360 as an Xbox Live Arcade game , co-developed by 4J Studios .
All versions of  minecraft  receive periodic updates .
The  रचनात्मक  and building aspects of Minecraft  allow  players to  निर्माण  constructions out of textured cubes in  a   3d  procedurally generated  संसार   .
Other  क्रियाएँ  in the  खेल  include  खोजी  , gathering resources  ,  crafting and combat .
Gameplay  in  its commercial release has two principal modes  :  survival ,  जिससे   requires  players to acquire resources and maintain their health and hunger ;  और  creative , where players have an unlimited supply of resources , the ability to fly  ,  and no  स्वास्थ्य  or hunger .
A third gameplay mode named hardcore is the same as survival , differing only in  परेशानी  ;  it  is set to hardest setting and  respawning  is disabled ,  forcing  players to delete their  संसार   upon  death .
minecraft  received five awards  इससे  the 2011 Game Developers Conference : it was awarded  the  Innovation  पुरस्कार  ,  बेहतरीन  Downloadable  खेल  Award  ,  and the Best Debut Game Award from the Game  डेवलपर  Choice Awards ; and the Audience Award , as well as the Seumas McNally Grand  पुरस्कार  , from the Independent Games Festival in 2011  .
In 2012 , Minecraft was awarded a Golden Joystick Award in  the  category Best Downloadable Game .
As of April 8  ,  2013 , the game has sold over 10 million copies  on  PC  और  as of  जनवरी  22 , 2013  ,  over 20 million copies across all platforms .
The  अंधेरा  Knight is a 2008 British-American superhero film directed  ,  produced , and  co-written  by Christopher Nolan .
आधारित   on  the DC Comics character Batman , the film is the second part of Nolan 's Batman film  श्रेणी  and a  sequel  to 2005 's  बैटमैन  Begins .
Christian Bale reprises the lead role of  ब्रूस  Wayne/Batman , with a returning  डाल  of Michael Caine as Alfred Pennyworth , Gary Oldman as  जेम्स  Gordon and Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox .
The film  introduces  the character of Harvey  डेंट  ( Aaron  eckhart  ) ,  गोथम  's newly  निर्वाचित  District  attorney  and  the  consort of  ब्रूस  Wayne 's childhood friend Rachel Dawes ( Maggie Gyllenhaal ) , who joins Batman and the police  in  combating  the  new rising threat of a criminal mastermind  कॉलिंग  himself ``  the  Joker ``  (  Heath Ledger ) .
Nolan 's inspiration  लिये  the  फिल्मी  was  the  Joker 's comic book  डेब्यू   in  1940 , the 1988 graphic novel , and the 1996  श्रेणी  , which retold Two-Face  's   उत्पत्ति  .
The nickname `` the  अंधेरा  Knight '' was first applied to Batman in Batman No  .  1 ( 1940 ) , in a story written by Bill Finger .
The Dark  नाईट  was  फिल्माया  primarily in Chicago , as  खूब  as in several other locations in the United States , the United  किंगडम   ,   और  Hong Kong .
Nolan used an IMAX camera to  फिल्मी  some sequences , including the Joker 's  पहला  appearance  in   the   फिल्मी  .
On January  22  , 2008  ,   कुछ  months after he had completed  फिल्मांकन  on The Dark Knight and  छह  months before the film 's release  ,  Heath  लेजर  died from a toxic combination of prescription drugs , leading to  तीव्र  attention from the press  और  movie-going  पब्लिक  .
Warner Bros. had initially created a viral  विपणन  campaign for  the   अंधेरा   नाईट  ,  विकासशील  promotional websites and trailers highlighting screen shots of Ledger  as  the Joker , but  बाद   लेजर  's death  ,  the studio refocused its promotional campaign .
The Dark  नाईट   थी   released  on July 16 , 2008 in Australia , on July 18 , 2008 in North America , and on July  24  , 2008 in the United Kingdom .
Considered one of the best films of the 2000s and one of the  बेहतरीन  superhero  films  ever made , the film  प्राप्त   अत्यधिक   धनात्मक   समीक्षाएँ  and set numerous records during its theatrical run .
With over $ 1 billion in revenue worldwide , it is the 14th-highest-grossing film  of  all time , unadjusted  लिये  inflation .
The film received  आठ  Academy Award nominations  ;  it won the award for Best Sound Editing and Ledger  थी  posthumously awarded Best  supporting  Actor .
The Dark Knight Rises , the final part of the trilogy , was released on July 20 , 2012  .
The timeline of radio  सूचियाँ  within  the  history of radio  ,   the  technology and events that produced instruments that use radio  लहरें  and activities that  लोगों  undertook .
बाद  , the history is dominated by  प्रोग्रामिंग  and contents , which is  करीब  to general  इतिहास  .
The Sydney  ओपेरा  House is a multi-venue performing arts centre in New South Wales , Australia  .
It  थी  conceived and  largely   निर्मित   by  Danish  वास्तु   jørn  Utzon , opening in 1973  बाद   a  long gestation that began with his competition-winning  डिज़ाइन   in   1957  .
Joseph Cahill 's  नई  South Wales Government gave the go-ahead for  कार्य  to  शुरू   in  1958  .
The government 's bold decision to select Utzon 's design is often overshadowed  by   the  scandal that followed .
It is on Bennelong  पाइंट  in Sydney Harbour , close to the Sydney Harbour Bridge  .
It  sits  at the northeastern tip of the Sydney central business district  (   the   सीबीडी  ) , surrounded on three sides by the  harbour   (   सिडनी  Cove and  फार्म  Cove )  और  inland by the Royal Botanic  gardens  .
Contrary  to   इसके  name , it houses  अनेक   प्रदर्शन  venues  .
it   is  among the busiest performing arts centres in the world , hosting over 1,500 performances  प्रत्येक  year attended by some 1.2 million  लोगों  .
it  provides a  स्थान  for  अनेक   performing-arts  companies , including the four key resident companies Opera Australia , The Australian Ballet , the Sydney  थिएटर  Company and the Sydney Symphony Orchestra , and presents a wide  दायरा   of   प्रोडक्शन्स   on  its own account .
It  is  also  एक  of the most popular visitor attractions in Australia , with more than seven million people  visiting  each year  ,  300,000 of  जिसको  take a guided tour .
It is administered by the Sydney Opera House Trust ,  अंतर्गत  the New South  वेल्स   मंत्रालय  of the Arts .
on  28 June 2007 , it was made  a  UNESCO World Heritage Site  .
It is one of  the  20th century 's most distinctive buildings  और  one of the most famous performing arts centres in the world .
A graph of body mass index as a function  of  body mass and body height is shown above .
The dashed lines represent  subdivisions  within a  प्रमुख  class .
लिये  instance the `` Underweight '' classification is further divided into `` severe '' , ``  मॉडरेट   ''  ,  और   ``  mild '' subclasses .
The body mass index  (  BMI  )  , or Quetelet index , is  a  measure  लिये   इंसान  body shape based on an individual 's weight and  ऊँचाई  .
It was devised  between  1830  और  1850  by  the  belgian  polymath  adolphe  Quetelet during the course of developing `` social physics '' .
देह  mass index is  पारिभाषित   as  the individual 's  देह  mass divided by the square of  उनके  height .
The  formulae  universally used in medicine produce a unit of measure  of  kg/m2  .
बीएमआई   can  also be determined using a BMI chart , which displays BMI as a function  of   वज़न  ( horizontal axis )  और  height  (  vertical axis ) using contour lines  लिये  different values  of  BMI or  रंगों  for different BMI categories .
† The factor for UK/US units  is  more precisely 703.06957964 , but that level of precision is not  सार्थक  for  इस  calculation .
To work from stone and pounds first multiply  the  stone  by  14 then add the pounds to give the whole mass in pounds ; to work  इससे  feet  और  inches first multiply the feet by 12 then add the inches to give  the   पूरे  height in inches .
Thomas Paine ( January  29  ,  1737  ( NS February 9 ,  1737  ) –  जून  8 ,  1809  )  थी   an  English-American political  activist  , author , political  theorist  and revolutionary  .
As the author  of  two highly influential pamphlets at the start of the American  क्रान्ति  , he inspired the  देशप्रेमी  in 1776 to declare independence from Britain .
उसके  ideas reflected Enlightenment  era  rhetoric  of  transnational human rights .
he  has been called `` a  corsetmaker  by trade  ,  a journalist by profession , and a propagandist by inclination .  ''
Born  in  Thetford , England , in the county  of  Norfolk  ,   paine  emigrated  to  the British American colonies in 1774 with  the  help of  बेंजामिन  Franklin and he arrived in  समय  to participate in the American Revolution .
His principal contributions were the powerful , widely read pamphlet Common Sense ( 1776 ) ,  the  all-time best-selling American book that advocated colonial America 's  स्वतंत्रता  from the Kingdom of Great Britain ,  और  The American Crisis ( 1776–83 ) ,  a  pro-revolutionary pamphlet series .
Common Sense was so influential  कि  John  एडम्स  said , `` Without the pen of  the  author of Common  भाव  ,  the  sword of Washington  होता   have  been raised in vain.”
Paine lived in France  लिये   सबसे  of the 1790s  ,  becoming deeply  शामिल  in  the  French  क्रान्ति  .
He wrote the Rights of Man ( 1791 )  ,   in   भाग   a  defence of  the  French  क्रान्ति   विरूद्ध  its critics .
His attacks on British  लेखक   एडमंड   बुर्के   led   to   a  trial and conviction in absentia in  1792  for the crime of seditious libel .
in  1792 , despite not being able to  बोलो  French ,  he  was elected to the French National Convention .
the  Girondists regarded him as an  ally   .
नतीजतन  ,  the  Montagnards  ,   विशेषकर  Robespierre , regarded  उसे  as an enemy .
In December 1793 , he was arrested and imprisoned in Paris , then  released  in 1794 .
He became notorious  क्युकी  of  the  Age of Reason ( 1793–94 ) , his  किताब  that advocates deism  ,  promotes  कारण  and freethinking , and  argues  against institutionalized religion in general and Christian doctrine in  particular  .
He also wrote the pamphlet Agrarian Justice  (  1795 ) , discussing the origins of property  ,  and introduced  the   अवधारणा   of  a guaranteed minimum income .
in  1802  ,   he  returned to America where he died on June 8 , 1809 .
Only  छह  people attended  उसके  funeral as he had been ostracized for his ridicule of Christianity .
Clinical trials are sets of tests in medical research  और  drug  विकास  that  generate  safety and efficacy data  (  or more specifically  ,  information about adverse  ड्रग  reactions and adverse effects of other treatments )  लिये   स्वास्थ्य  interventions ( e.g. ,  दवाएँ   ,  diagnostics , devices , therapy protocols ) .
वे   हैं  conducted only after satisfactory  सूचना  has been gathered  on   the  quality of the non clinical safety , and health authority/ethics committee approval is granted in the country where  स्वीकृति   of  the drug  or  device is sought .
Previously , many  उभरते  countries did not require local trials for  उत्पाद   approvals   .
Now , though emerging countries still accept data from U.S./Europe , they  भी  require some local  ट्रायल  .
Depending on the  प्रकार  of product and the stage of its development , investigators initially enroll volunteers and/or patients into small pilot studies , and subsequently  conduct   larger   स्केल  studies in patients that often compare the new product with others already approved for the affliction of  ब्याज   .
As positive safety  और  efficacy data are gathered , the number  of  patients  is  typically  increased  .
Clinical trials can vary in size ,  और  can involve  a  single research entity in one country or many such entities in multiple  देशों  .
A full series  of  trials may incur sizable costs , and  the   बोझ   of  paying for all  the  necessary people and services is  प्रायः   borne  by the sponsor , which may be  a  governmental organization or  a   फार्मास्युटिकल  , biotechnology or medical device  कम्पनी  .
When the  विविधता  of required support roles  exceeds   the   संसाधन  of the sponsor , a clinical trial is managed  by  an outsourced partner  ,  such as  a   अनुबंध  research organization  or  a clinical trials  ईकाई  in  the  academic sector .
The Green Bay Packers are an American football team based in Green  खाड़ी  , Wisconsin  .
They are members of the North Division of the National Football Conference (  nfc  )  in  the  नेशनल  Football League ( NFL )  .
Green  खाड़ी  is the third-oldest  मताधिकार  in the NFL , having been organized and playing in 1919 .
The Packers are the only  non-profit  ,  community-owned  major  लीग  professional  खेल  team in  the  United States  .
The Packers are the last vestige of  ``  small  कस्बा   टीमों   ''  that were once  आम   in  the NFL  दौरान  the  1920s   और  1930s .
Founded in 1919  by  Earl  ``  Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the  टोली  plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun ,  the  Green  खाड़ी  Packers  can  trace their  lineage   to   अन्य  semi-professional teams in  ग्रीन  Bay dating back to 1896 .
In 1919 and 1920  the  Packers  competed  as a semi-professional football team against clubs  इससे  around Wisconsin and  the  Midwest .
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA ) in 1921 , the forerunner to what  is  known today as  the  National Football League ( NFL ) .
Although Green  खाड़ी   is  the last NFL  ``  small town  ''  team  ,  its local fan base  और  media extends into nearby Milwaukee  ;   the  team also  निभाई  selected home games there between 1933 and 1994 .
The Green  खाड़ी  Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any  अन्य  team in the NFL ) , including nine NFL championships prior  to  the Super Bowl  era  and four Super Bowl victories —in  1967  ( Super Bowl I  )  , 1968 ( Super  कटोरी   ii  )  ,  1997 ( Super Bowl  xxxi  ) and  2011   (   सुपर  Bowl XLV  )   .
The Packers  have   long-standing  , bitter rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central ) opponents  ,  the Chicago Bears ,  मिनेसोटा  Vikings  और  the Detroit Lions  .
The Bears-Packers rivalry is  एक  of the oldest rivalries in NFL history , dating back to 1921  .
Ethanol fuel is ethanol ( ethyl alcohol  )  , the  वही   प्रकार  of alcohol found in alcoholic beverages .
It is most often used  as  a motor  ईंधन   ,  mainly as a  biofuel  additive for  गैसोलीन  .
World ethanol production for transport fuel tripled between 2000 and 2007  इससे   17  billion to more  than  52 billion liters .
From 2007  to  2008 , the share of ethanol in  वैश्विक  gasoline type fuel use increased  इससे  3.7 %  to  5.4 % .
In 2011 worldwide ethanol fuel production reached 22.36 billion  u.S.   द्रव  gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 billion  liters  ) , with the United  राज्य  as the top producer with 13.9 bg ( 52.6 billion liters ) , accounting  लिये  62.2 %  of  global production , followed by Brazil  साथ  5.6 bg ( 21.1 billion liters ) .
इथेनॉल  fuel has  a  ``  गैसोलीन   गैलन  equivalency ``  (  GGE ) value of , which means 1.5  गैलन  of ethanol  उपज  the energy of one gallon of  गैसोलीन   .
Ethanol fuel is widely used in Brazil and in the United States , and together both countries were responsible for 87.1 % of the world 's ethanol fuel  उत्पादन  in  2011  .
Most cars on the road  आज  in  the   u.S.  can  चलाएं  on blends  of   up  to  10  % ethanol  ,  and ethanol represented 10 % of  the  U.S. gasoline  ईंधन  supply derived from  घरेलू  sources in 2011 .
Since  1976  the Brazilian government has made it mandatory to blend ethanol with gasoline , and since 2007 the legal blend is around 25 %  इथेनॉल  and  75  % gasoline ( E25  )   .
By December 2011 Brazil had a  बेड़े   of  14.8 million flex-fuel  ऑटोमोबाइल  and light trucks and 1.5 million flex-fuel motorcycles that regularly use neat ethanol fuel ( known  as  E100 ) .
Bioethanol is a form of renewable energy that can be produced from agricultural feedstocks .
It can be made from  बहुत  common  फसलों  such  as  sugar  cane   ,  potato , manioc and  मकई   .
वहीँ   रै  been considerable debate  परिचय   कैसा  useful bioethanol will be in replacing gasoline .
Concerns about  इसके  production and use  सुनाना  to increased food prices due to the large amount  of  arable land  जरूरी   लिये  crops  ,   as  well as the energy and pollution balance of the whole cycle of  इथेनॉल  production  ,  especially  इससे  corn .
हाल  developments with cellulosic ethanol production and commercialization may  allay  some of these concerns  .
cellulosic  ethanol offers promise because cellulose fibers , a major and  सार्वभौमिक  component in  संयंत्र  cells  दीवारें  , can  be  used to  उपज   इथेनॉल   .
According to the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Energy Agency , cellulosic ethanol could allow ethanol fuels to play a much bigger role  in  the future than previously thought .
साब  9-3 SportCombi BioPower  .
the  second E85 flexifuel  मॉडल  introduced  by   साब  in  the  Swedish market  .
A plaque commemorating  the  location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps  of  Gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987 ,  पहले  steps were removed in 1992  और  plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque  commemorating   the  location of  the  Sarajevo assassination  (  image  लिया  in 2009 )
On  28  June 1914 , Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria ,  वारिस  presumptive to  the  Austro-Hungarian throne , and his wife , Sophie , Duchess of Hohenberg , were shot dead in Sarajevo , by Gavrilo Princip , one  of  a  समूह  of six  बोस्नियाई  Serb assassins  समन्वित  by Danilo Ilić .
The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-Slav provinces so they could be  संयुक्त   into  a Greater Serbia  or  a Yugoslavia .
The  हत्यारे  ' motives were consistent with the movement that later became known as Young Bosnia .
Serbian military officers stood behind the  आक्रमण  .
at  the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević , his  righthand  man  प्रमुख  Vojislav Tankosić  ,  and Masterspy Rade Malobabić .
प्रमुख  Tankosić  हथियारबंद  the assassins  साथ  bombs and  pistols  and trained them  .
The assassins were given access to the  वही  clandestine tunnel of safe-houses  और  agents that Rade Malobabić  प्रयुक्त  for the infiltration of weapons and operatives  into  Austria-Hungary .
The assassins , the key members of  the  clandestine tunnel  ,  and the key Serbian military conspirators who were still alive  यहूद  arrested , tried , convicted and punished .
Those who were arrested  in   बोस्निया  were tried in Sarajevo in October 1914 .
The  अन्य  conspirators were arrested and tried  पहले  a Serbian kangaroo court on the French-controlled  salonika  Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated  गलत  charges ; Serbia  चलाया  three of the top  सैन्य  conspirators  .
Much of what is known  परिचय  the assassinations comes from these two trials and related  रिकॉर्ड  .
Assignment of  जिम्मेदारी  for the bombing and  हत्याएं   of   28  June is highly controversial because the attack led to the  outbreak  of World War  i  one month later  .
Renée  कैथलीन  Zellweger (  born   अप्रैल  25 , 1969 ) is  an  American actress and producer .
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her role in the  फिल्मी  Jerry  मैग्वायर  ( 1996 ) , and subsequently received two nominations for the Academy  पुरस्कार   लिये   बेहतरीन  Actress  लिये  her  भूमिकाएँ  as  ब्रिजेट   जोन्स  in the  कॉमेडी  Bridget Jones 's Diary  (  2001 ) , and as Roxie  हार्ट  in the  musical   शिकागो   (  2002 ) .
वो  won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in  the  drama  ठंडा  Mountain (  2003  ) .
She has won an Academy Award , three Golden Globe Awards ,  तीन  Screen  अभिनेताओं  Guild  पुरस्कार  , and a BAFTA Award ; was named Hasty Pudding 's Woman of the  साल  in 2009 ; and established herself as  एक  of the highest-paid Hollywood actresses as  of  2007  .
The  ossicles  ( also called auditory ossicles )  हैं  the three smallest bones in  the  human body , the malleus , the incus  और  the stapes .
They are contained within  the  middle ear space and serve to transmit sounds from the air to the  fluid-filled  labyrinth ( cochlea )  .
The absence of the auditory ossicles would  constitute  a  moderate-to-severe  hearing loss .
The term `` ossicles '' literally  अर्थात्  ``  छोटा  bones '' and  commonly  refers to the  auditory  ossicles  ,  though the term may refer to any  छोटी  bone throughout the body .
the  New  वचन   (   यहूदी  •  •  — Greek •  •  diatheke kaine ) is a  biblical  interpretation originally  निकला   इससे  a phrase in  the  Book  of   यिर्मयाह   ,  in the  यहूदी  Scriptures  .
It is often thought of as  an  eschatological Messianic Age or world to come  और  is related to  the  biblical concept of the Kingdom of God  .
generally  , Christians  मानना  that the New Covenant  थी   instituted   at  the Last Supper as part of the  eucharist  , which in the Gospel of John includes the New Commandment .
There are several  ईसाई   eschatologies  that further define the New Covenant , as an example an  उदघाटन  eschatology defines and describes the New Covenant as an ongoing relationship between Christian believers and God that  होगा  be in  पूरा  fruition after  the  Second Coming of Christ ; that is ,  it  will not only  be  in full fruition in believing hearts , but in the future external world as well  .
The  कनेक्शन  between the Blood of  मसीह  and the New Covenant  is  seen in  सबसे  modern  अंग्रेज़ी  translations of the New  वसीयत  with the saying  :   ``  this cup that  is  poured  आउट  for you is the new covenant in my blood  ''  .
ईसाइयों  believe that Jesus  is  the  मध्यस्थ   of   the  New  वचन  , and that  the  Blood of Christ shed at his crucifixion is the required blood of  the  covenant  .
as  with all covenants between God and man described in  the  Bible , the New Covenant is considered `` a  बंध   in   रक्त  sovereignly administered  by  God . ''
It has been  theorized  that the  नई  Covenant is the Law of Christ as spoken  दौरान   उसके  Sermon on  the  Mount .
the  following List of people pardoned or granted clemency by the  अध्यक्ष  of the United  राज्य  documents  the  most prominent cases  of  each presidency .
As granted by  the  Constitution  (  Article II , Section 2 , Clause 1 ) ,  राष्ट्रपतियों  have the power to grant clemency in one  or   अधिक  of the  following   तरीके   :  the ability to grant a full  pardon  , to commute a sentence , or to  तोड़ना  a fine .
u.S.  Presidents have no power  to  grant  दया  for  अपराधों  prosecuted under state law .
As to the  अंतर  between a pardon and a  commutation:
A pardon is an  कार्यपालिका  order vacating a conviction .
A commutation is the mitigation of the sentence  of  someone currently  सेवारत  a sentence  लिये  a crime  pursuant  to a conviction ,  बगैर  vacating  the  conviction  itself  .
लगभग  20,000 pardons  और  clemencies were issued by U.S. presidents in the 20th  सदी  alone  .
The  रिकॉर्ड  of acts of clemency were public until 1934  .
in  1981 the Office of the  pardon  Attorney was created and records from President H. W. Bush forward are  अभी  listed  .
This list includes pardons and commutations .
Tampa ( )  is   a  city in the U.S.  राज्य  of Florida .
it  serves as  the  county seat  लिये   hillsborough   काउंटी   और  is  स्तिथ  on the west  coast  of Florida  ,  on Tampa Bay near the Gulf  of  Mexico .
The population of Tampa in 2011 was 346,037 .
the  current location  of  Tampa was once  inhabited  by  स्वदेशी  peoples of  the   सुरक्षा   हार्बर   संस्कृति  , most notably the Tocobaga and the Pohoy  ,  who lived along  the  shores of  tampa  Bay .
It was briefly explored by Spanish  explorers  in  the  early 16th century , but there were no permanent American or European  settlements  within today  's  city limits  जबतक  after the United States had acquired  फ्लोरिडा  from  स्पेन  in 1819 .
In  1824   ,  the United  राज्य  Army established  a  frontier  चौकी  called Fort  ब्रुक  at the mouth  of  the Hillsborough River , near  the  site of today 's  tampa  Convention Center .
the  first  civilian  residents were pioneers  जो  settled near  the  fort for  सुरक्षा  from the nearby Seminole population .
The  कस्बा   grew  slowly until the 1880s  ,   जब   रेलरोड  links , the discovery of phosphate , and the arrival of the cigar industry jump-started Tampa 's development and helped it to grow into an important city by the early 1900s .
Today  ,   tampa  is  a  part  of  the metropolitan area most  commonly  referred to as the  tampa  Bay  क्षेत्रफल  .
For U.S.  जनसांख्यिकी  purposes , Tampa is part  of  the Tampa-St.  petersburg-clearwater   ,  Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area .
the  four-county area is composed of  roughly  2.7 million residents ,  बनाना  it the  दूसरी  largest metropolitan statistical area  (  MSA ) in the state , and the fourth largest in the Southeastern  संयुक्त  States  ,  behind Miami , Washington , D.C.  ,  and Atlanta .
The  वृहद   tampa  Bay area has just  over  4 million residents and generally includes  the   tampa   और   sarasota  metro areas  .
The Tampa Bay  साझेदारी  and U.S. Census  आंकड़ा  showed  an   औसत  annual growth of 2.47 percent , or a gain of approximately 97,000 residents per year .
Between  2000  and 2006 , the Greater  tampa  Bay Market experienced a combined growth rate of 14.8 percent , growing from 3.4 million to 3.9  लाख  and hitting the 4 million people mark on April 1 , 2007 .
A 2012 estimate shows the Tampa Bay area  जनसांख्यिकी  to have 4,310,524 people and a 2017  प्रक्षेप  of 4,536,854 people .
Tampa has a number of sports teams , such as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers of the  नेशनल   फ़ुटबॉल  League  ,  the Tampa  खाड़ी  Lightning of the National  हॉकी   लीग  , and the  tampa  Bay Storm of the Arena Football League  .
The  tampa   खाड़ी  Rays  in  Major League Baseball and  the   tampa  Bay Rowdies  of  the North  अमरीकी  Soccer League  खेल  their home games in  neighboring  St. Petersburg , Florida .
In 2008 , Tampa was  क्रमित  as  the  5th best outdoor city by  फोर्ब्स  .
A 2004 survey  by  the NYU newspaper  वॉशिंगटन  Square News  क्रमित  Tampa as  a  top city  लिये  `` twenty-somethings . ''
Tampa is now ranked as a `` Gamma '' world city by Loughborough  विश्वविद्यालयों  .
According  to  Loughborough , Tampa ranks alongside other  संसार  cities  ऐसे  as Phoenix , Santo Domingo , and Osaka .
In recent years Tampa  रै   देखी  a notable upsurge  in  high-market demand from consumers , signaling more wealth concentrated in the area .
tampa  hosted the 2012 Republican National  सम्मेलन  .
The Chevrolet Cavalier was a compact automobile produced from 1982 to 2005 by General Motors .
Built on the company 's J platform  ,  the Cavalier produced  the  highest sales in  1984  .
AT & T Mobility LLC branded and  referred  to  as  AT &  t  ( formerly  cingular   बेतार   llc  ) , is a wholly owned subsidiary of AT & T Inc.  कि  provides wireless services to  107  million  सदस्य   in   the  United States , including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands .
at  & T Mobility is the second largest wireless telecommunications provider  in  the United States and Puerto Rico , behind Verizon Wireless ,  जिससे   serves   115.78  million  ग्राहक   as  of the fourth  क्वार्टर  of  2012  .
AT & T  गतिशीलता  is headquartered in the Lenox  पार्क  area of DeKalb Co. Georgia , just  बाहर  Atlanta .
Originally Cingular Wireless LLC from 2000  to  2007 , a joint venture  between  SBC Communications and BellSouth , the company acquired the old  at  & T Wireless in 2004  ;  SBC  बाद  acquired  the  original  at  & T and re-branded  as  `` AT &  t   ''  .
Cingular became  wholly  owned by AT &  t   in  December 2006 as  a   परिणाम  of AT & T 's acquisition of  bellsouth  .
In January 2007 , Cingular confirmed it would  re-brand  itself under the AT  &  T name .
Although  the   विधिक  corporate name change occurred immediately , for both  नियामक  and brand-awareness  कारण  both  ब्रांड्स  were used in  the   कम्पनी  's signage and  विज्ञापन  during a transition period .
The transition concluded  in  late June , just  prior   to  the rollout  of  the  ठहराना  iPhone .
On March 20 ,  2011  ,  at   &  T Mobility announced its  इरादे  to acquire T-Mobile  यूएसए   इससे  Deutsche Telekom for  $  39 billion .
If it had received government and regulatory approval , AT & T would have had  अधिक  than 130 million subscribers .
However , the  u.S.  Department  of  Justice , the Federal Communications Commission , and AT & T Mobility 's competitors ( such  as  Sprint Nextel )  opposed  the move on the grounds  कि  it would reduce  प्रतियोगिता   in  the cellular communications market  .
In  दिसम्बर   2011  , in the face of both governmental and widespread consumer opposition ,  at   &  T withdrew  उनके  offer  to  complete the merger  .
Martin  लूथर  King  ,   jr.  ( January 15  ,  1929  –   अप्रैल  4 ,  1968  ) was an American clergyman , activist , and leader in the  african-american  Civil Rights Movement .
He is best  ज्ञात  for  उसके  role in the advancement of civil rights  using  nonviolent civil disobedience .
King has become a national icon in the history of American  प्रगतिवाद   .
A Baptist minister , King became a civil rights activist early in  उसके  career .
he  led the  1955  Montgomery  बस  Boycott and helped found the Southern Christian  नेतृत्व   सम्मेलन  ( SCLC ) in 1957 ,  सेवारत  as its first president  .
With the SCLC , King  led  an unsuccessful struggle against segregation in  albany  ,  जॉर्जिया   ,  in 1962 ,  और  organized nonviolent protests in  बर्मिंघम  , Alabama , that attracted national  ध्यान  following  टेलीविज़न  news  कवरेज   of  the brutal police response .
King also helped  to   व्यवस्थित   the  1963  कूच  on Washington , where he  वितरित  his `` I Have  a  Dream `` speech  .
वहीँ  , he established his reputation as  एक  of the greatest orators in American  इतिहास  .
He also established his reputation as  a  radical  ,  and became an object  of  the Federal Bureau of  छानबीन  's COINTELPRO for the  बाकी  of his life .
FBI  एजेंटों  investigated him for possible  कम्युनिस्ट  ties ,  अंकित  his extramarital liaisons and reported  on   उन्हें  to  सरकारी  officials ,  और  on  एक  occasion  ,   mailed  King a threatening anonymous  अक्षर  that he interpreted  as  an  attempt  to make him commit suicide  .
On  अक्तूबर  14 , 1964 , King  प्राप्त  the Nobel Peace  पुरस्कार  for  combating  racial inequality  through  nonviolence .
In  1965  , he and the  sclc  helped to organize  the  Selma  to  Montgomery marches  और  the following year , he took the movement  उत्तर  to  शिकागो  .
In the final years of  उसके   जीवन  , King  विस्तारित  his focus to  शामिल  poverty and the Vietnam  युद्ध   ,  alienating  अनेक  of his liberal allies with  a  1967 speech  titled  `` Beyond Vietnam  ''  .
King was planning a national occupation of Washington , D.C. , called the  ग़रीब  People 's Campaign .
King was assassinated on April 4 ,  1968  , in Memphis , Tennessee .
His death  थी  followed by riots in many U.S.  शहरों  .
Allegations that James Earl Ray , the man convicted of killing King , had been framed or acted in concert with  सरकारी   एजेंटों  persisted for decades after the shooting , and the jury of a 1999 civil trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in  a  conspiracy against  किंग  .
King was awarded the Presidential Medal  of  Freedom and  the  Congressional Gold Medal  मरणोपरांत  .
Martin Luther King , Jr. Day was  स्थापित   as  a U.S. federal holiday in 1986 .
Hundreds of streets in the  u.S.  have  महरूम  renamed  in   उसके  honor  .
A memorial statue  on  the National Mall was opened to  the  public  in  2011 .
The tiger ( Panthera  tigris   )  is the largest cat species ,  reaching  a total body length of  up  to  और  weighing up  to  .
It is the third largest  जमीन  carnivore ( behind  तभी  the  ध्रुवीय  bear and  the  brown  भालू  )  .
Its  सबसे  recognizable  विशेषता  is a pattern of  अंधेरा  vertical  धारियाँ   on   reddish-orange   फर  with a lighter  underside  .
It has exceptionally  stout  teeth  ,  and the canines are the longest among living felids  साथ  a crown height of as much as or even .
In  zoos   ,  tigers have  जिया   लिये   20  to 26  सालो   ,  which also seems  to  be their longevity in the  जंगली  .
They are territorial and generally solitary  लकिन  social animals , often requiring  विशाल  contiguous areas  of  habitat that support their  शिकार  requirements .
This , coupled with the fact that they are indigenous to some of the more densely populated places on Earth ,  रै  caused  significant   विरोध  with humans .
Tigers once  ranged  widely across  एशिया  ,  इससे  Turkey in  the  west to  the   पूर्वी  coast of Russia  .
Over the  पास्ट  100 years  ,  they have lost 93 % of their historic range , and have been extirpated  इससे  southwest  और  central  एशिया  , from the  आइलैंड्स  of Java  और   bali   ,  and from large areas of Southeast  और  Eastern  एशिया  .
Today , they range from  the  Siberian taiga to open grasslands and tropical  mangrove  swamps .
The  बाकी  six  बाघ  subspecies have been classified  as  endangered  by  IUCN .
The global  जनसांख्यिकी  in the wild  is  estimated  to   क्रमांक  between 3,062 and  3,948  individuals ,  bas  from around 100,000 at the  प्रारंभ   of  the 20th century , with most remaining populations  occurring  in  छोटी  pockets isolated from  प्रत्येक  other .
Major reasons for population decline include habitat  विनाश  , habitat fragmentation and poaching .
The  extent  of area  occupied  by tigers is estimated  at  less than  ,  a 41 % decline  इससे  the area estimated in  the   mid-1990s  .
Tigers  हैं  among the  सबसे   recognisable  and popular of the world  's  charismatic megafauna .
वे  have featured  prominently  in ancient mythology and folklore ,  और  continue  to  be depicted in modern films and literature .
Tigers appear on  अनेक   ध्वज  ,  coats  of arms , and as mascots for sporting teams .
The Bengal tiger is the national animal of both India  और  Bangladesh  .
The simplified  आतंरिक  structure  of   a  chloroplast
Overview of  the  Calvin cycle and  कार्बन  fixation
The light-independent reactions of  photosynthesis  are  रासायनिक  reactions  कि  convert carbon dioxide  और  other compounds into glucose .
These reactions  occur   in  the stroma  ,   the  fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of  the  thylakoid membranes  .
These reactions take the light-dependent reactions  और  perform further chemical processes on them .
There  हैं  three phases to the  light-independent  reactions , collectively called the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation , reduction  प्रतिक्रियाएँ  , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate  (  RuBP ) regeneration .
despite   इसके  name ,  इस  process occurs only when  लाइट  is available  .
पौधे  do not carry out  the   calvin  cycle by night .
वे  , instead ,  रिलीज  sucrose  into  the phloem from their starch reserves  .
This process happens  जब  light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation ,  c4   कार्बन  fixation , and Crassulacean  एसिड   चयापचय  ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their  vacuoles  every night and release it by day in order to make this process work .
a  linen handkerchief with pulled thread embroidery around the  किनारे
Linen  cloth  recovered from Qumran Cave 1 near the  मुर्दे  Sea .
Linen ( ) is a  वस्त्र  made from the fibers  of  the flax plant  ,  Linum usitatissimum .
लिनेन  is labor-intensive to manufacture  ,  but  जब  it is  बना  into garments  ,   it  is valued  लिये  its exceptional  शीतलता  and freshness in hot weather  .
The word ``  लिनेन  ''  is  of West Germanic origin and cognates with the Latin name for the flax plant linum , and the earlier Greek  λινόν  ( linon )  .
इस  word history has given rise to a number of other terms  in  English  ,  the most notable of  जिससे  is the English word line , derived from the  उपयोग  of a linen (  flax  )  लड़ी  to determine  a  straight line .
Textiles  in  a linen  बुनते   बनावट  , even when  बना  of cotton , hemp and other non-flax  मछली  are also loosely referred  to  as  ``  linen '' .
Such fabrics generally have their own  विशिष्ट  names other than linen  ;   लिये  example , fine  कपास  yarn  in   a   linen-style  weave is called Madapolam .
the  collective term `` linens `` is still often  प्रयुक्त  generically  to  describe a class of woven and even knitted bed , bath , table and kitchen textiles .
The name  linens  is retained because traditionally , linen was used  लिये  many of  ये  items .
in  the past , the word `` linens '' was  भी  used to mean lightweight undergarments  ऐसे   as   शर्ट  , chemises , waistshirts  ,  lingerie  (  a word also cognate  साथ   लिनेन   )  ,  और  detachable shirt collars and cuffs , which  यहूद  historically made almost exclusively out of  लिनेन  .
The inside cloth layer  of   ठीक  composite clothing garments ( as  लिये  example jackets ) was traditionally made of linen , and  इस  is the origin of the word  अस्तर  .
Linen  वस्त्र  appear to be some of  the  oldest in the  संसार  : their history goes back many thousands of years .
Fragments of straw ,  बीज   ,  fibers  ,  yarns ,  और  various types of  fabrics  which  तिथि  back to about 8000 BC have been  मिला   in   स्विस  lake  dwellings  .
dyed  flax  मछली  found in a  प्रागैतिहासिक  cave in Georgia  सुझाएँ  the use of woven linen fabrics  इससे   जंगली  flax  may  date back  भी  earlier to 36,000 BP .
Linen  थी  sometimes  प्रयुक्त  as currency in ancient Egypt  .
Egyptian mummies  यहूद   लपेटा  in linen because it was seen as a  प्रतीक   of  light and purity , and as a display of wealth  .
Some of these  fabrics   ,  woven from hand spun yarns , were very fine  लिये  their day , but  हैं  coarse compared to modern linen .
Today , linen  is  usually an expensive textile , and is produced in relatively small quantities .
It has  a  long `` staple '' (  व्यक्तिगत  fiber length ) relative to cotton and  अन्य  natural fibers .
Many products  हैं  made of linen : aprons , bags , towels  (  swimmers , bath , beach  ,  body and wash towels ) , napkins  ,  bed linens , linen tablecloths , runners , chair covers , and men 's & women 's wear .
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the  संसार  Cup , is  an  international association football competition contested  by  the senior men 's national teams  of  the members of Fédération  internationale  de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's  वैश्विक   शासी  body .
the   चैंपियनशिप  has been awarded every four years since the  inaugural  tournament in 1930 ,  मगर  in  1942  and 1946 when it  थी  not held because of the Second World War  .
The current champions are Spain , who  जीती  the  2010  tournament  .
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues  भीतर  the host nation ( s ) over a period of  परिचय  a  माह  ;  इस  phase  is  often called the World Cup Finals  .
A qualification phase ,  जिससे  currently takes place over the preceding  तीन  years , is used to determine which teams qualify for  the  tournament together with the  मेजबान  nation  (   s  ) .
The  19  World Cup  tournaments  have been won by eight different national teams .
ब्राज़ील  have won five times , and they  हैं   the   तभी  team  to  have played  in  every  टूर्नामेंट  .
The other World Cup  विजेता  are Italy , with  चार  titles ;  जर्मनी  , with three titles ;  अर्जेंटीना   और   inaugural  winners Uruguay , with two titles each ; and England  ,  France , and Spain , with one title each .
The World Cup is the world 's  सबसे  widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup  आयोजित  in Germany .
The next three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014 , Russia in 2018 , and Qatar in 2022  .
The is an expansion device for the  वी   रिमोट  video game controller for the Wii that allows it to more accurately capture complex motion  .
According to Nintendo , the sensor  in  the  यंत्र  supplements the accelerometer and Sensor Bar  सामर्थ्य  of the  वी  Remote to enable  क्रियाएँ  to  be  rendered identically  on  the screen in real time .
The Wii 's  successor  console  ,  the Wii U ,  supports  the Wii MotionPlus and its peripherals in  खेल  where  उपयोग  of its touchscreen-built-in primary controller is  नहीं  necessary .
Majulah Singapura ( Onward  सिंगापुर  ) is the national  गान  of  सिंगापुर  .
Composed by Zubir  कहा  in  1958  as a theme song for official functions of the City Council of Singapore , the song  थी   चयनित   in  1959 as the island  's   गान  when it  attained  self-government  .
Upon  पूरा   स्वतंत्रता  in 1965 , Majulah Singapura was  formally  adopted  as  Singapore 's national anthem  .
By law the  गान  may only be sung  साथ  its original Malay lyrics , although there exist authorized translations of  the   गीत  of the anthem in Singapore 's three other official  भाषाएं  : English , Mandarin  और  Tamil .
Originally composed in the  कुंजी  of G  प्रमुख  , in 2001 the national anthem was officially relaunched  in  the lower key  of  F  प्रमुख   as  this was said to allow for a `` grander and more inspiring arrangement  ''   .
The national anthem is regularly performed or sung in schools and armed forces camps at ceremonies held at the beginning and/or the  समाप्त  of each day , during which the national flag is also raised and lowered and the national pledge is taken .
singaporeans  are especially encouraged to sing the national anthem on occasions of national celebration or national significance such as at the National Day  परेड  ,  at   नेशनल   दिन  observance ceremonies conducted  by   शैक्षणिक  institutions and government  विभाग  , and at  sporting  events at which Singapore  टीमों  are participating .
An  expedition   's  shipwrights building  a  brigantine , 1541 .
Shipbuilding is the construction of ships and floating vessels .
it  normally takes place in  a  specialized facility known as a  डॉकयार्ड  .
shipbuilders  , also  पुकारा  shipwrights , follow a specialized occupation that traces its roots to before  अंकित  history  .
shipbuilding   और  ship repairs , both commercial  और  military , are referred to as `` naval engineering '' .
The construction  of  boats is a similar activity called boat building  .
The dismantling  of  ships is  पुकारा  ship  तोड़कर  .
Wakonda is  a  town in  मिट्टी  County  ,  South Dakota , United States .
The population  थी  321 at the  2010  census .
The following is a list of the  सबसे  populous incorporated places of  the  United States  of  America .
As defined by the United States Census Bureau  ,  an `` incorporated place `` includes a variety  of  designations , including city , town  ,   गाँव  , borough  ,   और  municipality  .
A few exceptional  जनसांख्यिकी  Designated  स्थान  ( CDPs  )   हैं   भी   शामिल  in the Census  ब्यूरो  's listing of  incorporated   स्थान  .
Consolidated city-counties  represent  a  पृथक  type of government that includes the entire population  of  a county  ,  or county  समतुल्य   .
कुछ  consolidated city-counties , however  ,  include multiple incorporated  स्थान  .
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' )  of   ऐसे  consolidated city-counties  कि  are not a part of another  incorporated  place .
Note  कि  this list refers only to  the  population of individual municipalities within their defined limits , which does not include other municipalities  or  unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations  .
A different ranking is evident when considering U.S.  महानगर  area  populations  .
alt=larger  flashcart , shown with small  कार्ड  and U.S. quarter  लिये  size
Nintendo DS storage devices are devices  प्रयुक्त  to  स्टोर  a licensed developer  's   work-in-progress  images  ,  homebrew  वीडियो  games  और  downloaded commercial games  (  since the Nintendo DS is not sold with a rewritable storage medium ) .
licensed  developers , however  ,  can use a blue  बुद्धिमान  Systems Nitro Emulator box to flash cards .
These devices  हैं   भी  known as ``  flashcarts  '' or `` flashcards ''  .
There are  दो  main classes  of  flashcarts :  पुरानी  devices which fit in Slot-2 ( the Game Boy  अग्रिम  Game  पाक  slot ) and newer devices that fit in Slot-1 ( the DS Game  कार्ड  slot )  .
slot-2  ( or first-generation ) devices  have  been historically cheaper due to economies of scale  (  inherited from their use with Game Boy Advance  )  , but require a  booting  tool in Slot-1  in  order to use the touch screen and other DS features .
Second-generation devices (  those  which only use Slot-1 ) do not work with GBA homebrew , but became less expensive and easier to  उपयोग  , rivaling many  slot-2  devices in price .
First-generation  डिवाइस  include GBA  फ्लैश  cartridges , GBAMP CF , SuperCard , and  m3  .
Second-generation devices include  r4  Revolution  ,  CycloDS , G6  रियल  and DS-X .
The storage device  either  contains flash  मेमोरी  or a slot for  a  memory card to store homebrew  .
Storage devices with  a  memory-card slot usually  have  more  भंडार  capacity than flash-memory devices .
Although flash-memory capacity  is  usually measured in megabits (  mb   )   ,  memory-card capacity is usually measured  in  megabytes ( MB ) (  जहाँ   8  Mb is 1 MB ) .
Storage-device brands differ in their support for homebrew ; DS and Game Boy Advance ROMs ; special features ( such as ability to play media files  )   ;  physical size and  लागत  .
Strictly speaking , a storage device is not necessary  लिये  DS  साथ  FlashMe installed  क्युकी  homebrew  can  be sent to the DS using WMB  .
However , this is  नहीं  an  easily-portable  method because the DS needs to be within range of a suitable Wi-Fi  कार्ड  .
हैं  American people of Japanese heritage .
Japanese Americans have historically been among the three largest Asian  अमरीकी  communities  ,  but in  हाल   दशकों   ,   it  has become the sixth largest group at roughly  1,304,286  , including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity .
In the 2010 census , the largest Japanese American communities were  मिला   in  California with 272,528 ,  हवाई  with 185,502 , New York with 37,780 , Washington with  35,008  , and Illinois  साथ  17,542 .
दक्षिणी  California has the largest Japanese-American population in North America .
200px
इस   is   a   व्यापक  listing which highlights significant achievements and milestones  आधारित  upon Billboard  पत्रिका  's singles charts , most notably the Billboard Hot 100 .
This list  spans  from the issue dated January 1 ,  1955  to  उपस्थित  .
The Billboard Hot 100 began with the  समस्या  dated August 4 , 1958 , and is  फिलहाल   the  standard popular music chart in  the  United States .
Prior to the creation of the Hot 100 , Billboard published four  singles   चार्ट  : `` Best Sellers in Stores '' , ``  सबसे   निभाई   by  Jockeys '' , ``  सबसे  Played in Jukeboxes '' and `` The Top 100 ''  .
These charts ,  जिससे  ranged from 20 to 100 slots  ,  were phased out at different times between 1957  और  1958 .
Though technically not part of the Hot 100 chart history , their data is included for computational  उद्देश्य  , and to  avoid  unenlightening or  भ्रामक  characterizations  .
All  वस्तुएं  listed below are from the  hot   100   era  , unless otherwise noted ( pre-Hot 100  चार्ट   )  .
V  is  an American science fiction television series that  भागा  for two seasons on ABC , from November 3  ,  2009 to March 15 , 2011 .
A remake of the 1983 miniseries created by Kenneth Johnson ,  the  new  श्रेणी  chronicles the  आगमन  on Earth of a technologically advanced alien species which ostensibly comes in  सलाम  ,  लकिन   दरअसल  has sinister motives .
V stars  मुरैना  Baccarin , Lourdes Benedicto , Morris Chestnut , Joel Gretsch , Logan Huffman  ,  Charles  mesure  ,  एलिज़ाबेथ  Mitchell , Laura Vandervoort and Scott Wolf , and was executive produced by  स्कॉट  Rosenbaum ,  यवेस  Simoneau , Scott Peters , and Jace Hall .
the  series was produced  by  The  स्कॉट  Peters Company , HDFilms and Warner  भाईs.   टेलीविज़न  .
Geocaching is an outdoor recreational activity , in which the participants use  a  Global Positioning System ( GPS )  receiver  or  मोबाईल  device and other navigational  तकनीकों  to  छुपा  and seek  containers  , called ``  geocaches   ''   or  `` caches '' , anywhere in the world .
A typical cache is  a  small waterproof container containing a  logbook  where  the  geocacher enters the date they found it and signs  it  with their established code  नाम   .
After signing into the  log  , the cache  जरूर  be placed back  exactly  where the person found it .
Larger containers  ऐसे   as  plastic storage containers (  tupperware  or similar ) or  ammunition  boxes can  भी  contain items for trading  ,  usually toys  or  trinkets of little  मान  .
Geocaching shares many aspects with benchmarking , trigpointing ,  orienteering  , treasure-hunting , letterboxing  ,  and waymarking .
Boogie Down Productions was a hip hop  समूह  that was originally composed of KRS-One  ,  D-Nice ,  और  DJ Scott La  चट्टान  .
DJ  स्कॉट  La Rock was murdered  on   अगस्त   27  ,  1987  , months after the release of BDP 's debut album ,  दण्ड  Minded .
The name of the group , Boogie Down ,  गर्भाशयी  from  a   उपनाम  for the South Bronx section  of   the  Bronx , one of the five boroughs  of  New York  नगर  .
The group pioneered the fusion  of  dancehall reggae and hip hop music and  उनके  debut LP Criminal Minded contained frank descriptions of life  in  the South Bronx of the late 1980s thus setting  the  stage for what would eventually become gangsta rap .
a  municipal bond is a bond  जारी  by a  लोकल  government , or their agencies .
संभावित   issuers   of  municipal bonds include states , cities  ,  counties  ,   redevelopment  agencies , special-purpose districts , school  जिले  , public utility districts , publicly owned airports and seaports  ,  and any  अन्य  governmental entity ( or group of governments ) at or below  the  state level  .
Municipal bonds may be general  दायित्वों  of  the  issuer or secured  by   निर्दिष्ट  revenues  .
In the United States  ,  interest income received by holders of municipal bonds is often exempt from the federal income tax and from the income tax  of  the state in  जिससे  they are issued , although municipal bonds issued for certain purposes may not be tax  exempt  .
Unlike new issue stocks that are brought  to  market  साथ  price  प्रतिबंध  until  the  deal is sold , municipal bonds are free to trade at any time  एकबार  they are purchased by the investor  .
Professional  व्यापारियों  regularly  व्यापार   और   retrade  the  वही  bonds several times a week .
``  Gim me  कुछ  Lovin ' '' is a song written by Steve  winwood   ,  Spencer Davis  और  Muff Winwood , and originally performed by The Spencer Davis  समूह  .
the  basic riff  of  the song was borrowed from the Homer  बैंको  song ``  (   ai  n't That  )   a   लॉट  of Love '' , written  by  Banks and Willie Dean ``  deanie  ''  पार्कर  .
``  Gim me Some  lovin  ' '' was a  uk   #   2  in  the  Autumn  of  1966 and a US # 7 .
The  सोंग  is ranked #  247   on  the Rolling Stone magazine 's list of The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time .
The version  जारी  in  the   uk  ( and probably most  of   यूरोपीय  ) is different from that issued in the US  on   the  United Artists label , being slower ,  और  lacking the backing vocals and `` live sounding ''  प्रदर्शन  found on the US single .
( The US  संस्करण  has more often been used on reissue CDs ,  भी  those coming  इससे  Europe .  )
The single features the sound of the Hammond B-3 organ .
The Internet Movie Database ( IMDb )  is   an  online database of information related  to  films  ,  television  कार्यक्रम  , and video games  .
This includes actors , production crew personnel , and fictional characters featured in these three visual entertainment media  .
It  is  one of the most popular online entertainment  गंतव्यों  ,  साथ  over 100 million unique users each  माह  and  a  solid and rapidly growing  मोबाईल  presence .
IMDb was  शुभारम्भ  on  अक्तूबर  17 , 1990 , and in 1998  थी  acquired by Amazon.com .
As of April  27  , 2013  ,  IMDb had 2,503,783 titles (  शामिल  episodes ) and 5,192,493 personalities in its database  ,  as well as 43 million  पंजीकृत   उपयोक्ता  .
The website  रै  an Alexa rank of 48  .
Fibre Channel Host Bus Adapter  (  64-bit PCI-X card )
SCSI Host Bus Adapter  (  16-bit ISA card )
in  computer hardware ,  a  host controller  ,  host  एडाप्टर  , or host  बस  adapter ( HBA ) connects a host system  (   the  computer  )  to other network and storage devices .
The terms are primarily used to  refer  to devices for connecting SCSI  ,  Fibre  चैनल  and eSATA devices .
however  , devices  लिये  connecting to IDE ,  ईथरनेट   ,  FireWire , USB and other systems may also  be  called  मेजबान  adapters .
Recently , the advent of iSCSI and  fibre  Channel over Ethernet has  brought  about Ethernet  hbas  , which are different from  ईथरनेट  NICs in  कि  they include  टीसीपी  Offload Engines .
There are also  converged  HBAs that support both Ethernet and  fibre  Channel called Converged Network Adapters ( CNAs ) .
Cashmere Scarves
Modern men 's cashmere sweaters for sale .
Cashmere wool , usually simply known  as  cashmere  ,   is  a fiber obtained  इससे   cashmere  goats and other types of  बकरी  .
The word cashmere  गर्भाशयी   इससे  an old spelling of Kashmir .
Cashmere is fine  in   बनावट  , strong  ,  light , and soft .
Garments  बना  from it provide excellent insulation .
In  the  United States , under  the  U.S  .  Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939 , as amended , ( 15 Uction 68b  (  a )  (   6  ) ) ,  राज्य  that a  ऊन  or textile product may  नहीं   be  labeled as containing cashmere unless:
such  ऊन   उत्पाद  is the fine ( dehaired ) undercoat  मछली  produced by  a  cashmere goat (  capra  hircus laniger  )   ;
the average diameter  of  the fiber of such wool product  करता  not exceed 19 microns ; and
such wool product does not contain more  than  3  प्रतिशत  ( by weight ) of cashmere fibers with average  diameters  that  exceed  30 microns .
the  average fiber diameter  may  be subject  to   a   गुणांक  of  विभिन्नता  around the mean that shall not exceed 24 percent .
Jennifer Convertibles Inc. is the owner  और   licensor  of sofabed and leather specialty retail stores  in  the  संयुक्त  States , with stores located throughout the Eastern seaboard ,  in   the  Midwest ,  on  the West Coast and in the Southwest .
The  कम्पनी  was founded in 1975 and is based in Woodbury , New York .
On  जुलाई  19 , 2010 , the  कम्पनी  announced that  it  had  दायर  for  दिवालियापन  as a  consequence  of  ``   substantial   नुकसान  '' .
According to Furniture Today  the  company was number 48 among furniture retailers  साथ   us  $ 114  लाख  in sales for  the  year ending August 29 , 2009 .
It subsequently  उभरा  from  अध्याय  11 under the control of its  प्रमुख   प्रदायक   ,   the  Haining  mengnu  Group .
Egg roll is a term used for  अनेक  different  भोजन  around the world .
2__egg_roll  __  किस्में  of egg rolls  हैं  found in mainland China , many Chinese-speaking regions of  एशिया   ,  and Chinese  अप्रवासी  communities around the world .
Egg rolls as referred to in China .
In Guangdong and Hong Kong , egg roll usually refers to biscuit roll .
इस  is  a  type  of  biscuit .
The ingredient included egg , flour and sugar .
Egg roll also  is  a dish  in  Canton and Hong Kong , this  is  usually made with vegetable .
Within China egg rolls are  खाया   predominantly   in  the  southeast  and  हैं  not as commonly consumed in the north and western  भाग  of  चीन  .
In  अमरीकी  Chinese cuisine , an egg roll is a savory dish typically served as an appetizer .
It is usually  भरवां  with chicken  ,   पोर्क  or shrimp ,  गोभी   ,  carrots , tomatoes , bean sprouts  और  other vegetables , and then deep  fried   .
This  किस्में   of  the egg roll is very common and popular  ,   आरपार  even  क्षेत्रीय  varieties of  अमरीकी  Chinese food  ,  and is  प्रायः  included  as  part of a ``  संयोजन  platter  ''  .
In Montreal , Canada , open-ended eggrolls are a Jewish-Chinese fusion dish  .
They can be  either  kosher certified or merely  कोषेर  style .
Pain and  कष्ट  is the legal term for  the  physical and emotional stress caused  इससे  an injury  (  see also pain and suffering ) .
Some damages that might be under  इस  category  होता  be :  aches  , temporary and permanent  सीमाएं  on activity  ,  potential shortening of life  ,  depression or scarring  .
When filing a lawsuit as a result of an injury , it is common for someone to seek money both in compensation  लिये  actual money that  is   खोया  and for the pain and stress associated with virtually  कोई  injury .
In a suit  ,  pain and  कष्ट  is part of the ``  सामान्य  damages '' section of the claimant 's claim , or , alternatively , it  is  an element of  ``  compensatory '' non-economic  क्षतिपूर्ति   कि  allows  रिकवरी  for the mental anguish and/or physical pain endured by the  claimant  as a result of injury for which the plaintiff seeks redress .
Apart from  धन  damages awarded in trial , money damages  हैं  also  दिए  informally outside the judicial system in mediations , arbitration (  दोनो  of which may be  अदालत  annexed  or  non litigated  दावा  ) as well  as  in  दिनचर्या  insurance settlements .
व्यक्तिगत  claimants or those represented by lawyers often present demands to insurers to  settle  for money .
ये   माँग  for bodily injury compensation monies  प्रायः  set out damages that are similarly used  in  the court litigated  pleadings  .
Demands are  प्रायः  written summaries of a claimant 's medical  परवाह  and the facts which  resulted  in the  चोट  .
Sample of a Medallion signature guarantee  stampin
the  United States and Canada  ,  a medallion signature guarantee  is  a  खास  signature guarantee for the  ट्रांसफ़र  of securities .
It is a  गारंटी   by   the  transferring financial institution  कि  the signature is genuine and the financial  संस्था   स्वीकृत   देयता  for any  जालसाजी   .
Signature guarantees  protect  shareholders by preventing  अनधिकृत   हस्तांतरण  and possible investor losses .
They also limit the liability of the transfer agent who accepts  the  certificates .
Different institutions have  अलग   नीतियों  as to what type  of  identification they require to  provide  the guarantee and whether they  चार्ज  a  शुल्क   लिये  such  सेवा  ( usually nominal  if   कोई  ) .
Most  संस्थानों  will not guarantee a signature of someone  जो  has not  already  been  उनके   ग्राहक  .
A medallion signature guarantee is not the same as an acknowledgment by a notary public , in the  भाव  that a `` signature  गारंटी  '' is a  प्रमाणन  by the  संस्था  that  the  signature  is   प्रामाणिक  , and an acknowledgment is a certification by a notary public attesting that  the  signer signed a document voluntarily .
Some banks may no longer provide this service , however , many still do as well as other financial institutions  ऐसे  as a Savings and Loans and  क्रेडिट  Unions .
At their sole discretion , these  संस्थानों  may still  मनाही  to provide the Medallion Signature  guarantees  .
When US  नागरिकों  are  विदेश   ,  some financial institutions may accept United States Embassy Seals , in  प्लेस  of  the   medallion  Signature Guarantee  स्टैम्प   .
Pacific Electric Railway streetcars stacked at a junkyard on Terminal Island , Los Angeles County  ,  California , March 1956
The General Motors streetcar conspiracy ( also  ज्ञात  as the Great  अमरीकी  streetcar scandal ) refers to allegations  और   convictions   in  relation to a  कार्यक्रम   by   सामान्य   मोटर्स  ( GM ) and other companies who purchased and then dismantled streetcar and electric train systems in many  अमरीकी  cities .
Between 1936 and 1950 , National City  लाइनों  and Pacific City Lines  —with  investment from GM  ,   firestone  Tire ,  मानक  Oil of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , Phillips  पेट्रोलियम   ,  Mack Trucks , and  the   संघीय  Engineering Corporation—bought over 100 electric surface-traction  प्रणालियों  in 45 cities  सहित   बाल्टीमोर   ,  Newark , Los Angeles , New  यॉर्क  City , Oakland and San Diego and converted  उन्हें  into bus  आपरेशन   .
अनेक  of the  कंपनियाँ  involved were convicted in 1949  of  conspiracy to monopolize interstate commerce but  यहूद  acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the ownership of these companies .
Some suggest  कि  this  कार्यक्रम  played a key role in the decline of public transit in  शहरों  across  the  United States  ;  notably  एडविन  J. Quinby ,  जो   पहला  drew attention to  the  program in 1946 , and then  ब्रैडफोर्ड  C. Snell ,  an  anti-trust attorney  लिये  the United  राज्य  Senate  जिनकी  controversial 1974 testimony to a  सीनेट  inquiry brought the issue to national  जागरूकता   .
Both Quinby and  snell  argued that the  deliberate   विनाश  of streetcars was part of  a   larger  strategy to push  the  United States into  ऑटोमोबाइल  dependency .
Others  कह  that independent economic factors brought  परिचय  changes in the  पारगमन   प्रणाली  , including the Great  अवसाद  , the  पब्लिक  Utility Holding Company Act of  1935   ,  labor unrest ,  मार्केट  forces ,  rapidly  increasing traffic congestion , urban sprawl  ,  taxation policies that favored private  गाडी  ownership , and general enthusiasm for the  ऑटोमोबाइल   .
One writer on the subject has suggested that Snell and others fell into simplistic  षड्यंत्र  theory thinking , bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` Clearly , GM  waged  a  युद्ध  on electric traction .
It was indeed an all out  उत्पीड़न  , but by no means the  सिंगल  reason for the failure  of   रैपिड  transit .
Also ,  it   is   बस   as  clear that actions and inactions by government contributed  significantly  to  the  elimination  of  electric traction .  ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have  surviving  effective rail-based  शहरी  transport systems based on  streetcars  or trams , including  न्यूर्क  , Philadelphia , San Francisco  ,  Pittsburgh , and  बोस्टन  ; others  हैं  re-introducing  उन्हें  .
The  स्टोरी  has  महरूम  explored several  टाइम्स  in print , film and other  मीडिया   ,  notably in Who Framed Roger Rabbit , Taken for a  सवारी  and The End  of  Suburbia .
Corwin House ,  सलेम   ,  Massachusetts  ,  built ca . 1660  ,  First Period English
अमरीकी  colonial architecture includes several building design  शैलियाँ  associated with the  औपनिवेशिक  period of the  संयुक्त  States , including First Period  अंग्रेज़ी  ( late-medieval ) , French Colonial , Spanish Colonial ,  डच  Colonial and Georgian .
These  शैलियाँ  are associated with the houses  ,  churches and government buildings of the period from about  1600  through  the  19th century  .
`` In the Mood '' is a big band era # 1  hit  recorded  by  American bandleader  ग्लेन  Miller  .
It topped the charts in 1940 in  the  U.S. and  एक   साल  later was featured  in  the  फिल्म  Sun Valley Serenade .
In 1999 , National Public Radio ( NPR ) included the 1939  ग्लेन  Miller recording on RCA Bluebird  on  the NPR  100  , the list of ``  the  100 most important  अमरीकी   musical  works  of   the   20th  century '' .
NEPTUNE logo
The NEPTUNE  कनाडा   प्रोजेक्ट  is the  world’s  first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory that plugs  सीधे  into the Internet .
Since December 2009  ,  it has  अनुमत   लोगों  to ``  लहरे   ''  the  seafloor  while ocean scientists  चलाएं   deep-water  experiments  इससे  labs and  विश्वविद्यालयों  around the world  .
साथ  with  इसके  sister project  ,  VENUS  ,   वरुण  offers a unique  दृष्टिकोण  to  समंदर  science .
Traditionally , ocean  वैज्ञानिकों  have relied on infrequent ship cruises or  space-based  satellites to carry out their  शोध  ,  जबकि  the NEPTUNE project uses  a  remotely operated crawler .
A gramophone record  ,   commonly  known as  a  phonograph record ( in American  अंग्रेज़ी   )  ,  विनाइल  record  (  in  सन्दर्भ  to vinyl  ,  the material  सबसे  commonly used after  परिचय  1950  )  , or colloquially , `` a record '' ,  is   an   एनालॉग  sound storage medium consisting of a  चपटा  disc with  an  inscribed , modulated spiral groove .
The groove usually starts near  the  periphery  और  ends near the center of  the  disc .
फोनोग्राफ  records are generally described by their diameter in inches  (  12-inch , 10-inch , 7-inch , etc . )  ,  the rotational  गति  at  जिससे   वे  are  निभाई  ( `` 33  आरपीएम  `` , ``  78  '' , ``  45  '' , etc . )  ,  their  समय  capacity ( `` long playing  ''  ) , their reproductive accuracy , or `` fidelity `` ( `` high  वफ़ादारी  '' ,  ``  Orthophonic ''  ,  `` full-range ''  ,  etc  .  ) ,  और  the number of channels of audio provided (  ``  mono `` , ``  स्टीरियो  `` ,  ``  quadraphonic `` , etc . ) .
फोनोग्राफ  records were the  प्राथमिक  medium used for  म्यूज़िक  reproduction for most of the 20th century ,  replacing  the phonograph cylinder , with  जिससे  it  था   co-existed  , by  the  1920s .
By the late 1980s , digital  मीडिया  had gained a  larger  market  share  , and  the  vinyl record left the mainstream in 1991 .
They continue  to  be manufactured and sold in the  21st  century .
in  2008  ,  nearly 2.9 million units shipped , the  सबसे  in any year since 1998  और  the format has continued to slowly  regain  popularity  .
They are especially used by  djs  and audiophiles for many types of music .
As of 2013  ,  vinyl records continue to be used for distribution .
Grassland in the Santa Rosa  पठार   ,  California .
Grassland  in  the Antelope Valley , California
the   konza  tallgrass  प्रेयरी  in the Flint Hills of northeastern Kansas .
A  घासभूमि  in the Philippines .
An Inner Mongolian  घासभूमि   in  the  लोगों  's Republic of  चीन
Grasslands are areas where the vegetation is dominated  by  grasses ( Poaceae ) , however sedge  (  Cyperaceae  )  and rush ( Juncaceae ) families can also be found .
Grasslands occur naturally on  सब  continents except Antarctica .
In temperate  latitudes  , such as northwestern Europe  और  the  ग्रेट  Plains  और   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  in North  अमेरिका  , native grasslands are dominated by perennial  गुच्छा  grass species  ,   whereas  in warmer  climates   सालाना  species form a greater component  of  the vegetation .
Grasslands  हैं  found in most ecoregions of the Earth .
For example there  हैं  five terrestrial ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the  शीतोष्ण  grasslands , savannas , and shrublands biome  (  ' ecosystem ' ) ,  जिससे  is one of eight terrestrial ecozones of the Earth  's   सतह  .
हिना  ( Lawsonia  inermis   ,   भी  called henna  पेड़  ) or  हिना   is   a   flowering  plant , the sole species in the genus Lawsonia in the family Lythraceae .
The English name `` henna  ''  comes from the Arabic ( ALA-LC  :  ḥinnāʾ  /  pronounced ) or  colloquially  , loosely pronounced .
The name is also  प्रयुक्त  for dye preparations derived  इससे  the plant  ,  and  लिये  the art  of  temporary tattooing based on those dyes  .
हिना  has been used since antiquity to dye skin , hair  ,   और  fingernails , as well as  fabrics  including Silk , wool and  चमड़े  .
Additionally  ,  the name is misused for other  स्किन  and hair dyes , such as  ब्लैक  henna or neutral henna ,  जिससे   हैं  not derived from the plant .
A thin film is  a   परत  of material ranging from fractions of a  nanometer   (  monolayer  )  to  अनेक  micrometers in thickness .
Electronic semiconductor devices and optical coatings  हैं  the main applications benefiting from thin-film construction .
a   परिचित  application of thin  films  is  the  household mirror  ,  which typically  रै  a thin metal coating on the back of a sheet of glass to  रूप  a reflective interface .
the  process  of  silvering was once commonly used to produce mirrors .
A very-thin-film coating ( less than a nanometer thick ) is used to produce two-way mirrors  .
The performance of optical coatings ( e.g . antireflective , or AR  ,  coatings ) are  typically  enhanced when the thin-film coating consists of multiple layers having  varying  thicknesses and refractive indices  .
similarly  , a periodic structure of alternating thin films of different materials  may  collectively form a so-called superlattice which exploits the phenomenon of  क्वांटम  confinement  by  restricting electronic phenomena  to  two-dimensions .
Work is being done with ferromagnetic and ferroelectric thin films for use as computer  मेमोरी  .
It is also being  लागू  to  दवाएँ  , via  thin-film  drug delivery .
Thin-films  हैं  used  to  produce thin-film batteries  .
Thin  films   हैं  also used in dye-sensitized solar cells  .
Ceramic thin films are in wide use .
the  relatively high hardness and inertness of ceramic materials make this type of thin coating of  ब्याज  for protection of substrate materials against  संक्षारण  ,  ऑक्सीकरण  and  पहनें  .
In  particular  ,  the   उपयोग  of such coatings on cutting tools can  extend  the  जीवन  of  ये  items by  अनेक  orders of magnitude .
Research is being  किया  on a new class of thin-film inorganic oxide materials , called amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent  आक्साइड  , which could be used to make  पारदर्शी  transistors that are inexpensive  ,  stable , and environmentally benign .
Gears of War is a military  विज्ञान   fiction  third-person shooter video game developed by  एपिक  Games and published by Microsoft Game Studios .
it   थी   initially  released as an exclusive title for the Xbox  360  in November 2005 in North America , Australia , and most of Europe and included a `` Limited Collector  's  Edition '' with added content and an art  किताब  titled Destroyed Beauty that detailed much of the game 's back-story .
Despite the initial  कथन  of Xbox 360 exclusivity , a Microsoft  खिड़कियाँ  version of the  खेल  was developed in conjunction with People  can   मक्खी   और   released  a year later ,  featuring  new content  सहित  additional campaign levels , a new multiplayer  खेल  mode ,  और  Games for Windows Live functionality  .
The  खेल  focuses on  the  troops of Delta Squad as they wield a desperate , last-ditch attempt to save the remaining  इंसान   निवासियों   of  the fictional planet Sera from  a  relentless and seemingly unstoppable subterranean enemy known as the  टिड्डी  Horde .
The player assumes the role of Marcus Fenix (  लकिन  can  भी  play as  डोमिनिक   सैंटियागो  ) , a  पूर्व  prisoner and war-hardened soldier .
The game is based on the use of  कवर  and  रणनीतिक   आग   लिये   the  player  to   अग्रिम  through the scenarios ; a second player can play cooperatively through the main  अभियान  to assist .
The game also features several online multiplayer game modes for up to eight players .
Gears  of  War sold  over   तीन  million copies in just ten weeks and was  the  fastest-selling video  खेल  of 2005 as well as the second-most played game  over  Xbox Live during .
It currently stands as the 5th best selling Xbox 360 game of  सब  time .
the  game has since sold over five million copies by September 2008 .
The game was  खूब  received  by  critics , who  praised   इसके  gameplay  और  detailed visuals , and  it  won several ``  खेल  of the Year '' awards  in  2006 .
The success of the game has led  to  the  विकास  of the Gears of  युद्ध  franchise , including  the  2008  sequel  Gears of  युद्ध  2 and its follow-up ,  गियर्स   of  War 3 ,  जिससे  was released on  सितंबर   20  , 2011  ,  after having initially been set to have been  released  on  अप्रैल  5 , 2011 ,  the   तिथि  upon  जिससे  Epic Games ' Cliff Bleszinski  थी   a  guest on Late  रात्रि  with Jimmy Fallon  .
adaptations  to  किताबे  , comics , as well as a feature  फिल्मी   हैं  to be expected .
A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is  a  1943  अनोखा  written by Betty Smith .
The story  focuses   on   an  Irish-American family in Williamsburg , Brooklyn , New York City .
The  अनोखा  is  नियत   in  the first and second decades of the  20th  century .
The book was  an  immense success .
The  प्रमुख  metaphor of  the  book is  the  hardy  पेड़  of  स्वर्ग  , native to China and Taiwan , now  माना  invasive , and  आम  in the vacant lots of New York  नगर  .
World  मैप  with the  intertropical  zone highlighted in red .
Tropical  जलवायु  zones of the  धरती  where  सब  twelve months have mean temperatures above 18 °C ( 64  °f  )  .
The tropics is a region of the  धरती  surrounding  the  Equator .
It is limited in latitude by the Tropic of Cancer  in  the northern hemisphere  at  approximately N and the Tropic of  मकर  in the  दक्षिणी  hemisphere at S  ;   ये  latitudes  correspond  to  the  axial tilt of the Earth .
the  tropics are  भी  referred  to   as   the  tropical  मण्डल  and the torrid zone ( see geographical zone ) .
The tropics include all  the  areas on the Earth where the Sun  पहुँच   a  point directly overhead at  तनिक  once during the solar year  .
The  ऊष्णकटिबन्ध  are distinguished from  the  other climatic and  biomatic   regions   of   धरती  , the middle latitudes and the polar regions  on   either  side of the equatorial zone .
For the INXS song  ,  see What You Need (  सोंग  ) .
``  कया  You Need '' is an episode  of  the American  टेलीविज़न  anthology  श्रेणी   the  Twilight Zone .
It is based on the short story of the same name by Lewis Padgett ( Henry Kuttner and C. L. Moore  )  .
PlayhouseSquare ,  in  the Cleveland Theater District in downtown Cleveland , Ohio , is the second-largest  थिएटर  complex in the United States , second only  to  New  यॉर्क  City 's Lincoln  बीच  ) .
Constructed  in  a span of 19  महीने   in  the  जल्दी  1920s , the theaters were subsequently  बंद  down ,  लकिन   यहूद   revived  through a grassroots effort .
Their renovation and reopening  helped   usher  in a new era of downtown revitalization  in   क्लीवलैंड  , and  थी  called ``  एक  of the  शीर्ष  ten  सफलताओं  in Cleveland  इतिहास  . ''
The  ड्राइवर   और  passenger  सामने  airbags , after having been deployed , in a British Peugeot 306 car  .
An airbag  is  a vehicle safety device  .
It is an occupant restraint system consisting  of  a flexible fabric envelope or cushion  designed  to inflate  rapidly  during an  ऑटोमोबाइल   टक्कर  .
Its purpose is to  cushion  occupants during a crash and provide  सुरक्षा  to their bodies  जब   वे   स्ट्राइक  interior  वस्तुएँ  such as  the  steering  व्हील  or a window .
Modern  वाहनों  may contain multiple airbag modules in  विभिन्न   पक्ष  and frontal locations of  the  passenger seating positions , and  सेंसर  may deploy one or more airbags in an impact  मण्डल  at variable rates  आधारित  on the type , angle and severity of impact ;  the   एयरबैग  is designed to  तभी  inflate in moderate to severe frontal crashes  .
Airbags are normally designed with the intention of supplementing  the  protection of an occupant who is  correctly  restrained with a seatbelt  .
सबसे  designs are inflated through  pyrotechnic  means and can only be operated once .
Newer side-impact airbag modules  consist  of  संपीडित   एयर  cylinders  कि   हैं  triggered  in  the event of a side impact vehicle  प्रभाव  .
The first commercial  डिजाइन  were introduced in passenger automobiles  दौरान  the 1970s with limited success  .
व्यापक  commercial adoption of airbags  occurred   in  many markets during the late 1980s and early 1990s with a driver airbag , and  a  front passenger airbag as well on some  गाड़ियाँ  ; and many modern vehicles now include four or more units .
IRS tax forms are used  लिये  taxpayers  और   tax-exempt  organizations to report  वित्तीय  information to the  आतंरिक  Revenue Service ( IRS ) of the  संयुक्त  States .
They  हैं  used to  रपट  income , calculate taxes to be paid to the federal government  of  the United States , and  ज़ाहिर  other information  as   जरूरी  by the  आतंरिक   आय  Code ( IRC )  .
वहीँ  are over 800 various forms and schedules .
The best-known of these is Form 1040 used by individuals .
in   the  United States ,  ड्राइवर  's licenses  हैं  issued by  प्रत्येक  individual state  (   सहित  Washington , D.C. and territories ) , rather than the federal government because of the political concept of federalism .
Drivers are normally required to obtain  a  license from their state  of  residence and all states  recognize  each other 's licenses for temporary visitors  विषय  to  सामान्य   आयु  requirements .
a  state may also suspend an  व्यक्तिगत  's driving privilege within its borders for traffic violations .
Many states share a common  प्रणाली  of license classes  ,  with some exceptions  ,   और  commercial license classes are standardized by federal  विनियमन   at   49  CFR part 383 .
China has  महरूम  the source of  अनेक  inventions , including  the  Four Great Inventions : papermaking  ,  the  कम्पास   ,   बारूद  , and printing (  दोनो   woodblock  and movable type ) .
the  list  नीचे  contains  ये  and  अन्य  inventions .
The Chinese invented technologies involving  यांत्रिकी   ,   hydraulics  ,  और  mathematics applied to horology ,  metallurgy  , astronomy  ,  agriculture  ,  engineering , music theory , craftsmanship  ,   nautics  , and warfare .
By the Warring States Period (  403–221  BC ) , they  था  advanced metallurgic technology , including the  धमाका   भट्टी  and cupola furnace , while the finery forge and  puddling  process  यहूद  known by the Han Dynasty (  202  BC  –  AD 220 ) .
A sophisticated economic system in  चीन  gave birth to inventions such  as  paper money during the Song  राजवंश  ( 960–1279  )  .
The invention of gunpowder by  the   10th  century led  to   an  array of inventions such as the fire lance , land mine  ,  naval mine , hand cannon , exploding  गोलों  , multistage rocket ,  और  rocket bombs with aerodynamic wings and  विस्फोटक   payloads  .
साथ   the  navigational  सहायता   of   the  11th-century compass and ability to steer  at  high sea with the  1st-century  sternpost rudder  ,  premodern  चाइनीज  sailors sailed as far as East Africa and Egypt  .
In  water-powered   clockworks  , the  premodern  Chinese had used the escapement mechanism since the 8th century and  the  endless power-transmitting chain drive in the 11th century  .
They also made large  mechanical   कठपुतली  theaters driven by waterwheels and carriage wheels and wine-serving  automatons  driven by paddle wheel boats .
The contemporaneous Peiligang and Pengtoushan  संस्कृतियों   represent  the oldest Neolithic cultures of  चीन   और  were formed around 7000 BC .
Some  of  the first inventions  of  Neolithic , prehistoric  चीन  include semilunar and rectangular stone knives , stone  hoes  and spades , the cultivation  of  millet , rice and the soybean , the refinement of sericulture , the building of rammed earth  structures  with lime  -plastered   हाउस  floors ,  the  creation  of  the potter 's wheel , the creation of pottery with  cord-mat-basket  designs  ,   the  creation of pottery tripods and  pottery  steamers , and the development of ceremonial vessels and  scapulimancy  for  उद्देश्य   of  divination .
Francesca Bray argues that  the   domestication  of  the  ox and  भैंस  during the Longshan  संस्कृति  ( c. 3000–c . 2000 BC ) period , the absence of Longshan-era irrigation or high-yield crops ,  पूरा  evidence of Longshan cultivation of dry-land cereal crops  जिससे   दिया  high yields `` only when the soil was carefully cultivated ,  ''  suggest that the plow was known at least by the Longshan culture period  और  explains the high agricultural production yields which  अनुमत  the  वृद्धि  of Chinese civilization during the Shang  राजवंश  ( c.  1600–c  . 1050  bc  )  .
With later  आविष्कारों  such as the multiple-tube seed drill and heavy moldboard  आयरन   हल  ,  चीन   's  agricultural output  could   sustain  a much  larger   जनसांख्यिकी   .
लिये  the  उद्देश्य  of this list  ,  inventions  हैं  regarded as technological firsts developed in China ,  और  as such  करता  not include foreign technologies which the Chinese  acquired  through contact ,  ऐसे  as the windmill from the Middle East or the telescope from Early modern Europe .
It also does not include technologies developed elsewhere and later invented separately by the Chinese ,  ऐसे  as the odometer and  कड़ी  pump .
Scientific ,  mathematic   or  natural  discoveries   ,  changes  in  minor concepts of design  or  style  और  artistic  नवप्रवर्तनों  can not be regarded as inventions and  do  not appear on the list .
सकल  domestic  उत्पाद   in   2011  US dollars  प्रति  capita  ,  adjusted for inflation and purchasing power parity (  log   स्केल  )  इससे  1860 to 2011 ,  साथ  population (  डिस्क   क्षेत्रफल  ) for the US  (  yellow ) , UK  (  orange )  ,  Japan ( red ) , China ( red ) , and India ( blue ) .
Globalization  (  or globalisation—see spelling  मतभेद  )  is   the  process of international integration arising from the interchange of world views  ,  products ,  विचार  , and  अन्य  aspects of culture .
Put  in   सरल  terms , globalization  refers  to processes that promote  world-wide  exchanges  of  national and  सांस्कृतिक   संसाधन  .
Advances  in  transportation  और  telecommunications infrastructure ,  सहित   the  rise of the Internet ,  हैं   प्रमुख  factors in globalization , generating further interdependence  of   आर्थिक   और  cultural activities  .
Though several scholars  प्लेस  the  origins  of globalization in modern times ,  अन्य  trace its history long before  the  European age of discovery and voyages to the New World .
Some even trace the origins to the third millennium BCE .
Since the beginning  of   the   20th  century , the pace  of   वैश्वीकरण  has intensified at a rapid rate  ,  especially during the Post Cold War  era  .
The term globalization has been in increasing use since the mid-1980s and especially since  the  mid-1990s .
In 2000 ,  the  International Monetary Fund ( IMF  )  identified four basic aspects of globalization : trade and transactions , capital and  निवेश  movements , migration  और  movement of  लोगों  and  the  dissemination of knowledge .
Further , environmental challenges such as climate change , cross-boundary  जल  and air pollution ,  और   over-fishing  of the  समंदर  are linked  साथ   वैश्वीकरण  .
Globalizing processes affect and are affected by business and work organization , economics , socio-cultural  संसाधन  , and the natural environment .
the  Replacements is a 2000 American sports comedy film  निर्देशित   by  Howard  deutch  .
it  stars Keanu Reeves , Gene Hackman  ,  and Brooke Langton .
An American Airlines aircraft takes off from Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport .
This airport is the  एयरलाइन  's  largest  hub .
अमरीकी  Airlines flies to 79  घरेलू  destinations and 78 international destinations in 48 countries .
(  as  of December  2012  )
The list includes the city ,  देश  , the codes of the International Air  हस्तांतरण  Association  (   iata  airport code ) and the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Civil Aviation Organization  (  ICAO airport code ) , and the airport 's name  ,   साथ   the  airline 's hubs , focus cities and seasonal destinations marked .
The list also  contains   गंतव्यों  no  longer   परोसा  by the airline , which are  चिह्नित   as  terminated destinations .
it   करता  not include destinations served for American Airlines by  इसके   क्षेत्रीय  affiliates  अमरीकी  Eagle Airlines ,  कार्यपालिका  Airlines  ,  and AmericanConnection  .
`` Day-O ( The Banana Boat  सोंग  ) '' is  a  traditional  jamaican  mento folk song , the best-known  संस्करण   of   जिससे  was sung  by   हैरी  Belafonte  और  an alternate version interspersed with another Jamaican folksong , Hill and Gully  सवार  , by Dame Shirley Bassey  .
Despite the song 's mento influences , `` Day-O ( The Banana  नाव  Song ) '' is widely known as an example of calypso music .
it  is a work song , from the point of view  of  dock workers working the night shift loading bananas onto ships .
Daylight has  आइये  ,  the  shift is over and they want  उनके  work to be counted  up  so  कि  they can go home .
World War  i   (  WWI ) was a  वैश्विक  war centred in Europe  कि   began  on 28 July 1914 and lasted  जबतक  11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly  पुकारा  the World  युद्ध   or  the Great  युद्ध  from its occurrence until the start of  संसार  War II  in  1939 , and the  पहला  World  युद्ध   or  World War I thereafter  .
It involved all the world 's  ग्रेट  powers , which were assembled  in  two opposing alliances : the  allies  (  आधारित  on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers  (   originally  the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and  इटली  ; but  ,  as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against  the  agreement , Italy did not  डालें   into  the  युद्ध  )  .
These  alliances   यहूद  both reorganised  और  expanded as  अधिक   राष्ट्र  entered  the  war : Italy , Japan and the United States joined  the  Allies , and the Ottoman Empire  और   बुल्गारिया  the Central  शक्तियां  .
Ultimately  ,  more than  70  million military personnel  ,   सहित  60 million  europeans  , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More  than   9  million combatants were killed , largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection  or  mobility .
It  थी   the   fifth-  deadliest conflict  in  world history , subsequently paving the way for various political changes , such as revolutions  in  many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war  थी  the resurgence of imperialism  in  the  विदेशी  policies of the great powers of Europe .
अधिक  immediately , the assassination  of  Archduke Franz Ferdinand of  ऑस्ट्रिया  , the heir to  the  throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914  by  Yugoslav nationalist  gavrilo  Princip in Sarajevo  triggered  a  राजनयिक  crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered  an  ultimatum  to  the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several  alliances  formed over the previous  दशकों  were invoked .
Within weeks  ,  the major powers were at war and ,  via  their  colonies  , the conflict soon spread around  the  world .
On 28 July ,  the  Austro-Hungarians fired the first  गोलियाँ  of the war as  तैयारी  for the  आक्रमण  of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain  's  declaration of  युद्ध  against  जर्मनी   .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a  halt—the  so-called  चमत्कार  of the  marne  —the  पश्चिमी  Front settled  into  a static battle of attrition  साथ  a trench  लकीर  that changed little until  1917  .
on  the  पूर्वी  Front , the Russian army was successful against the  austro-hungarians  , but  थी  stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by  the  Germans  .
In November the Ottoman  साम्राज्य  joined  the  war ,  खोलने  up fronts in the  काकेशस  , Mesopotamia and  the   sinai  .
Italy and  बुल्गारिया   गई  to  युद्ध  in 1915 and Romania in 1916 .
in  Russia ,  the  tsar 's government collapsed in March  1917  and a subsequent revolution  in  November brought the  russians  to  शर्तें  with  the   सेंट्रल  Powers .
बाद  a  1918  German offensive along  the  western front , the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering  the   trenches  .
Germany , which had  इसके  own  ट्रबल   साथ  revolutionaries  ,  agreed to an  armistice  on  11  November  1918   .
The  युद्ध  ended in victory  लिये  the Allies .
कार्यक्रम  on the  घर  fronts  यहूद  as  उग्र  as on the battle fronts , as  the  participants  आजमाया   to  mobilize their manpower  और  economic resources to fight a total war .
by  the end of the  युद्ध  , four major imperial powers—the German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian  और   उस्मानी  empires—ceased to exist  .
The  successor   राज्य  of the  पूर्व   दो  lost a  ग्रेट  amount of territory , while the  latter  two were  dismantled  entirely  .
The map  of   सेंट्रल  Europe  थी   redrawn   into  several smaller states .
The League  of  Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict  .
The European nationalism  शाखित  by the war and the  ब्रेकअप   of   empires  , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat  और  problems with the Treaty of  versailles  are agreed to be factors contributing to World War  ii  .
नर्स  Jackie is an American series  कि  premiered on June 8 , 2009 ,  on  Showtime , Movie Central and The  फिल्म  Network  .
The series stars Edie  falco  as the  शीर्षक  character Jackie Peyton ,  an  emergency department nurse at All Saints  '   हॉस्पिटल   in   नई   यॉर्क  City .
For Jackie , `` Every  दिन  is a high  तार   अधिनियम  of juggling patients , doctors , fellow nurses and her own  indiscretions   .   ''
Keeping  up  with  the  Kardashians ( often referred to simply  as  The  kardashians  ) is an American reality  टेलीविज़न  series that premiered on October 14 , 2007 , on E ! .
It follows  the  lives  of  the Kardashian/Jenner  परिवार  , including  बहनों  Kourtney , Kim ,  और  Khloé Kardashian .
The series  '  success has led to the  spin-offs  Kourtney and Kim Take New York , Khloé & Lamar ,  कोर्टनी  and Khloé Take Miami , and Kourtney and Kim Take  मियामी  .
Afghanistan ( ; ;  )  ,  officially  the  इस्लामी  Republic of Afghanistan , is a landlocked sovereign state forming part of South Asia ,  सेंट्रल   एशिया  ,  और  to  कुछ  extent Western  एशिया  .
it  has a population of around 30 million inhabiting an area of approximately , making it  the  42nd  सबसे  populous and 41st largest nation in the world .
It  is   bordered   by  Pakistan in the south and the east , Iran in  the  west , Turkmenistan , Uzbekistan and Tajikistan in the north , and China in the far northeast  .
Afghanistan has  महरूम   an  ancient focal point of  the  Silk Road  और  human migration .
Archaeologists have found evidence of human  habitation  from as far back as the  मध्य   paleolithic  .
Urban  सभ्यता  may have begun in  the   क्षेत्रफल   as   जल्दी  as 3,000 to 2,000 BCE .
बैठे  at an important geostrategic location that connects the Middle  ईस्ट  culture with  सेंट्रल   एशिया   और  the Indian subcontinent  ,  the land has  महरूम  home  to  various  peoples  through the ages  और  witnessed many military campaigns , notably  by  Alexander the Great , Genghis Khan , and in modern  era  Western  शक्तियां  .
the  land also served as a source from  जिससे  the Greco-Bactrians , Kushans , Hephthalites , Saffarids ,  ghaznavids  , Ghorids , Khiljis ,  timurids  , Mughals ,  durranis  , and others have risen to  रूप   प्रमुख  empires  .
the  political  इतिहास  of the modern state of  अफगानिस्तान  begins in 1709  ,  when the Hotaki dynasty was established in Kandahar  followed  by  अहमद  Shah  दुर्रानी  's  वृद्धि  to power in 1747 .
In  the  late 19th century ,  अफगानिस्तान  became a buffer state in the `` Great Game `` between the British and Russian empires .
following  the 1919  anglo-afghan  War  ,   किंग  Amanullah began a  यूरोपीय   स्टाइल  modernization of the country but was stopped by the  ultra-conservatives  .
During the Cold War  ,  after the  वापसी  of the  अंग्रेजों  from neighboring  इण्डिया  in  1947  , the United States and the  सोवियत  Union began spreading influences in Afghanistan  ,  which led to a bloody  युद्ध   between  the  us-backed  mujahideen  शक्तियां  and the Soviet-backed Afghan government in which over a million Afghans lost their lives .
This was followed by the 1990s civil war , the rise  और  fall of the extremist Taliban government and  the   2001–present  war .
In  दिसम्बर  2001 , the  संयुक्त  Nations Security Council authorized the creation of the International  सुरक्षा  Assistance Force ( ISAF  )  to help  maintain  security in  अफगानिस्तान  and assist  the  Karzai administration .
Three decades of  युद्ध  made Afghanistan one of the  संसार  's most  खतरनाक   देशों  , including the largest producer of refugees and asylum seekers .
While the international community  is  rebuilding war-torn Afghanistan , terrorist groups such as the Haqqani Network and Hezbi Islami are actively involved in a  देशभर  Taliban -led insurgency , which  शामिल  hundreds of assassinations and suicide  हमले  .
according   to  the United Nations ,  the   insurgents  were responsible for  80  % of civilian casualties in 2011  और  2012 .
The American Civil War (  acw  ) ,  भी  known as the War between  the  States or simply the Civil  युद्ध  ( see naming ) ,  थी  a civil  युद्ध  fought from  1861  to 1865  between  the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate  राज्य  of America ( the  ``  Confederacy  ''  or the `` South  ''  )  .
the   युद्ध  had  इसके  origin in the issue of slavery , especially the extension of  गुलामी  into the western territories  .
Foreign powers did  नहीं  intervene .
After four years  of  bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure ,  the  Confederacy  collapsed   ,  slavery was abolished , and  the   मुश्किल  Reconstruction process  of  restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights  to   the  freed  स्लेव   began  .
In  the  1860 presidential election , Republicans ,  led   by   अब्राहम   lincoln  , opposed expanding slavery into United  राज्य  ' territories .
Lincoln  जीती  , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861  ,  seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing  लोकतांत्रिक  President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans  अस्वीकृत  secession  as  illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would not initiate civil war  .
Eight remaining slave  राज्य  continued to  अस्वीकृत  calls for  secession  .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts  भीतर  territory  claimed  by the  confederacy  .
A  सलाम   सम्मेलन  failed  to   ढूँढें  a compromise  ,  and both sides prepared  लिये   युद्ध  .
the   confederates  assumed that European countries were so  निर्भर  on  ``  King Cotton  ``  that  वे  would  intervene  ; none  किया  and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 ,  जब  Confederate forces  fired  upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union  सैनिकों  in South Carolina .
lincoln   पुकारा  for each state to  provide  troops to retake the fort ; consequently , four more  स्लेव   राज्य  joined  the  Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven  .
The Union soon  नियंत्रित  the border states and established a  नवल   नाकेबंदी   कि   अबोध  the southern economy .
The Eastern  थिएटर  was inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland  (  a Union state )  ended  with  confederate  retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British  हस्तक्षेप  .
lincoln  issued the Emancipation Proclamation ,  जिससे  made ending slavery a war goal .
To  the  west , by  गर्मियाँ   1862  the Union destroyed the Confederate river  नेवी  , then  much  of  उनके   पश्चिमी  armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split  the  Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee  's   confederate  incursion north ended at the Battle of  gettysburg  .
Western successes led to  ulysses   S.   ग्रान्ट   कमांड  of  सब  Union armies in  1864  .
in  the Western Theater , William  T.  Sherman drove  ईस्ट  to capture Atlanta and marched  to  the sea ,  destroying  Confederate infrastructure  साथ  the  रास्ता   .
The Union marshaled the  संसाधन  and manpower to attack the Confederacy  इससे  all directions  ,  and  could  afford to fight battles of  अपघर्षण  through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond  ,  the  confederate  capital .
The  defending  Confederate army failed ,  अग्रणी  to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court  हाउस  on April  9  , 1865 .
The American Civil War  थी  one of the earliest true industrial  युद्धों  .
railroads  , the telegraph , steamships , and mass-produced weapons  यहूद  employed  extensively  .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines  ,   shipyards  , banks , transportation and  खाना   आपूर्तियाँ  all foreshadowed  संसार   युद्ध  I  .
It  remains  the deadliest war in American history , resulting in the deaths  of  an estimated 750,000 soldiers  और  an undetermined number  of   civilian   हताहत  .
Historian John Huddleston  estimates  the death  टोल   at  ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years  बूढ़ा  , and  30  percent of  सब  Southern white  males  aged 18–40 .
Cost of goods sold  (  COGS  )  refer to the inventory costs  of  those goods a business has  बेची  during a  particular  period .
Costs are associated with  particular  goods using one of  अनेक  formulas , including specific  पहचान  , first-in first-out ( FIFO ) , or average cost  .
Costs include all costs of purchase , costs of  परिवर्तन   और   अन्य  costs incurred  in   bringing  the inventories to their present location  और  condition .
Costs of goods made by the business  शामिल  material , labor , and allocated overhead .
the  costs of those goods not yet sold are deferred as costs of inventory until the inventory is sold  or  written down  in  value .
Freak Lunchbox  कैंडी  store  in   halifax  ,  नोवा  Scotia
A confectionery  स्टोर  (  अधिक   commonly  referred to as a sweet  दूकान   in  the United Kingdom , a candy store in the North  अमेरिका  , or a  lolly  shop in Australia ) sells confectionery  और  is usually targeted to  children  .
Most confectionery  स्टोर्स  are filled with an  assortment  of  मिठाई   दूर   larger  than a grocer or convenience  स्टोर  could accommodate .
They often offer a  चयन   of   बूढ़ा  fashioned  ट्रीट  , and sweets from different countries .
बहुत  often unchanged in layout since their inception , confectioneries are known for their warming  और  nostalgic feel .
The village of  pateley  Bridge claims to have the oldest confectionery store  in  England .
The oldest sweet shop in England , in  the  village of Pateley Bridge
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa , Cayuga : Gahnawiyoˀgeh  )   is  a  राज्य  located in West South  सेंट्रल   संयुक्त  States .
ओक्लाहोमा  is the 20th most extensive  और  the 28th most populous  of  the  50  United States .
The  राज्य  's name  is  derived from the Choctaw words okla and  humma  ,  अर्थ  `` red people ''  ,  and it is known informally by its nickname , The Sooner State .
Formed by the  संयोजन   of   ओक्लाहोमा  Territory and  भारतीय  Territory  on  November 16 , 1907 ,  ओक्लाहोमा  was the 46th state  to  enter the union .
Its residents are known  as  Oklahomans or , informally `` Okies  ''  , and its capital and largest city is Oklahoma City .
A  प्रमुख  producer  of  natural gas , oil ,  और  agriculture  ,   ओक्लाहोमा  relies  on  an economic base of aviation ,  उर्जा  ,  दूरसंचार  , and  जैवप्रौद्योगिकी  .
it  has one of  the  fastest growing economies  in   the  nation , ranking among the  शीर्ष  states in  प्रति  capita  आय   विकास  and gross domestic product growth .
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma  's  primary economic anchors , with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living within  उनके   महानगर  statistical  क्षेत्रों  .
With small mountain ranges ,  प्रेयरी  , mesas , and  पूर्वी  forests , most of Oklahoma lies in the  ग्रेट   मैदान  and the  u.s  .  आंतरिक  Highlands —a region  विशेषकर   prone  to severe  मौसम  .
in  addition to having  a  prevalence of English , German ,  स्कॉटिश  , Irish and Native American ancestry , more  than  25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma , second only to California .
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions and historically served as a route for cattle drives , a destination for southern settlers , and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans  .
Stacked and standing car  टायर
A tire (  or  tyre ) is a ring-shaped  covering  that fits around a  व्हील  's rim to  protect  it and enable better vehicle performance .
Most tires , such as those for automobiles and  साइकिल   ,   provide   कर्षण  between the vehicle and  the   सड़क  while providing  a   लचीली  cushion that  absorbs  shock .
The materials of modern pneumatic  टायर  are synthetic rubber , natural  रबर   ,  fabric and wire , along  साथ  carbon black and other  रासायनिक   यौगिकों  .
वे  consist of a tread and  a  body .
the  tread provides  कर्षण  while  the  body provides containment for a quantity of compressed air .
Before rubber  थी  developed , the  पहला  versions of tires were  बस  bands  of   मेटल   कि  fitted around wooden  पहियों  to prevent  पहनें  and tear .
Early rubber  टायर  were solid ( not pneumatic ) .
Today , the  बहुमत  of tires are pneumatic inflatable structures , comprising  a  doughnut-shaped body of cords  और  wires encased  in  rubber and generally filled with  संपीडित  air  to  form an  inflatable   cushion  .
Pneumatic tires are  प्रयुक्त  on many types of  वाहनों  , including cars , bicycles , motorcycles , trucks , earthmovers  ,  and  वायुयान  .
Metal tires are still used on locomotives and railcars  ,  and solid rubber ( or other polymer )  टायर   हैं  still used in  विभिन्न  non-automotive applications , such as some  casters   ,  carts , lawnmowers , and wheelbarrows .
Dr. Joseph  वारेन  (  जून   11  , 1741 – June 17 , 1775  )  was an American  डॉक्टर  who played  a  leading role in American Patriot organizations in Boston in early days of the American Revolution , eventually serving  as  president of the revolutionary Massachusetts Provincial Congress .
Warren enlisted Paul Revere and William Dawes on  अप्रैल  18 , 1775  ,   to  leave Boston and spread  the  alarm that  the   अंग्रेजों   गैरीसन   in  Boston was setting out  to  raid  the  town of Concord and arrest rebel  नेताओ  John Hancock and  सैमुएल  Adams .
वारेन  participated in the  अगला  day 's Battles of Lexington and Concord , which are commonly considered to be  the  opening engagements of the American  क्रांतिकारी   युद्ध  .
Warren had been commissioned a Major General  in  the colony 's militia shortly before the June 17 ,  1775  Battle of Bunker Hill .
बल्कि  than exercising his  रैंक   ,  Warren served  in  the battle  as  a private soldier ,  और  was killed  in  combat when British troops stormed the redoubt  atop  Breed 's Hill .
उसके  death , immortalized in John  trumbull   's  painting , The Death of  सामान्य  Warren at the Battle  of  Bunker 's Hill , June 17 ,  1775  , galvanized the rebel forces , and he has been memorialized in  अनेक  place  names  in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
stm  image of self-assembled supramolecular  जंजीरों  of the organic semiconductor  quinacridone   on  Graphite .
An organic semiconductor is an organic  सामग्री   साथ   सेमीकंडक्टर  properties  ,  that  is  , with  an  electrical conductivity between that  of  insulators and that of metals .
Single  अणुओं  , short chain  (  oligomers ) and organic polymers can be  semiconductive  .
Semiconducting small molecules ( aromatic hydrocarbons ) include the  polycyclic  aromatic compounds pentacene  ,  anthracene  ,  and rubrene  .
Polymeric organic  semiconductors   शामिल  poly ( 3-hexylthiophene ) , poly  (  p-phenylene vinylene ) ,  as   खूब  as polyacetylene and its derivatives .
There are two major overlapping  वर्ग  of organic semiconductors .
These are organic charge-transfer complexes  और   विभिन्न  linear-backbone conductive polymers derived from polyacetylene .
Linear  रीढ़  organic semiconductors include polyacetylene itself and  इसके   डेरिवेटिव  polypyrrole , and polyaniline .
At least locally , charge-transfer complexes often  प्रदर्शनी   समान  conduction mechanisms to inorganic semiconductors .
Such mechanisms arise from the presence of hole and electron conduction layers separated by a  बैंड  gap  .
While such classic mechanisms are  महत्वपूर्ण  locally , as  साथ  inorganic amorphous semiconductors , tunnelling , localized states , mobility  गैप  ,  और  phonon -assisted  hopping  also significantly contribute to conduction , particularly in polyacetylenes .
जैसे  inorganic semiconductors , organic semiconductors can be  doped  .
सशुल्क  semiconductors susceptible to doping such as polyaniline ( Ormecon ) and  हैं  also known as  सशुल्क  metals .
Typical current carriers in organic semiconductors are holes and electrons in  π-bonds   .
Almost all organic solids are insulators .
But when their constituent molecules have π-conjugate systems , electrons  can  move via π-electron cloud  overlaps  , especially by  hopping   ,   tunnelling  and  सम्बन्धित   mechanisms  .
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and phthalocyanine salt crystals  हैं  examples of this type of organic semiconductor .
Mainly due to low mobility  ,  even  unpaired  electrons  may   be  stable in  charge-transfer  complexes .
Such unpaired  electrons  can function as current carriers .
This type of semiconductor  is  also  प्राप्त  by pairing an  इलेक्ट्रॉन  donor molecule with an electron  acceptor  molecule .
Female ejaculation  is  the expulsion  of  fluid by human females from the paraurethral ducts through and around  the   मादा  urethra  दौरान  or before  an  orgasm .
It  is  also known colloquially as gushing or squirting , although these are  माना  to  be   अलग   phenomena  in some research publications .
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to  be  a topic  of  debate  among   चिकित्सा  professionals ,  जिससे  is also related  to  doubts over the existence of the  g-spot   .
The FIFA Women 's  संसार   कप  is an international  संघ  football  प्रतियोगिता  contested by the senior women 's national teams of  the  members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) ,  the  sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been  awarded  every four years since the inaugural  टूर्नामेंट  in 1991 .
Japan won the 2011 tournament in a  दंड  shootout .
The current format of the tournament involves 16 teams competing for the  शीर्षक  at venues  भीतर  the host  स्वदेश  ( s ) over  a   काल  of about  तीन  weeks  ;  – this phase is often called the  संसार  Cup  फाइनल  .
a   योग्यता  phase  ,   जिससे  currently takes  प्लेस  over the preceding  तीन  years  ,  is used to determine which teams  qualify  for the  टूर्नामेंट  together with  the  host nation ( s ) .
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is recognized as the most important International competition in women 's football and  is  played amongst women  's  national football teams of  the  member states  of  FIFA  ,  the sport 's  वैश्विक  governing body .
The first Women 's World  कप  tournament ,  नामित   the  Women 's World Championship , was held in  1991   ,  sixty-one years after  the  men 's  पहला   फीफा   संसार  Cup tournament in 1930 .
The  छह  World  कप  tournaments have been won by four different national teams .
the  next World  कप  will be hosted by Canada in 2015 .
Scorpions is a young adult novel written  by  Walter Dean Myers , first  प्रकाशित  in the United States  by  Harper & Row on  जून  20  ,  1988 .
Front page of a 17th century Hebrew Bible by Joseph Athias  ,  now at Beth Hatefutsoth  ,  Israel
'Son of man '  is  the translation of various  यहूदी   और  Greek phrases  प्रयुक्त  in both  the  Hebrew Bible  और  the New Testament .
It  रै  diverse meanings , ranging from a  सामान्य  human being to a prophesied  अनन्त  , divine  शासक  .
The Hebrew expression `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e . ben-'adam ) appears one  सौ  and seven  टाइम्स  in the Hebrew Bible .
This is  the  most common  यहूदी   निर्माण  for the singular  लकिन  is used mostly  in  Ezekiel ( 93 times ) and  14  times elsewhere .
In  तीस   दो  cases  the  phrase appears  in  intermediate plural form `` sons of men  ''   ,  i.e . human beings  .
as  generally interpreted by Jews , it denotes humankind  generally  .
In the Koine Greek of the New Testament , `` the son of man '' is invariably used as  ``  ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article .
The use of the  definite  article in ``  the  son of man '' in the Christian gospels is  अनोखा  ,  और  before its  उपयोग   वहीँ  ,  no  records  of  its use in  कोई   of  the surviving Greek documents of antiquity exist .
geza  Vermes has  stated  that `` the Son  of  man '' in  the  Christian gospels is unrelated to  यहूदी  Bible  usages  .
In Christian usage , unlike  the   बेटे  of God title ,  जिससे   रै  been an essential element of  ईसाई  creeds since the Apostolic age  ,  the  उदघोषणा   of  ``  यीशु   as  the Son of man '' has never been an article of faith in Christianity  .
The  निर्वचन  of  the  use of `` the Son  of  man '' in the New Testament has  remained  challenging and after 150 years  of   बहस  no consensus on the issue has emerged  among  scholars .
Master of  foxhounds   लीड  the field  इससे   powderham  Castle  in  Devon , England  ,   साथ   the  hounds in front .
फॉक्स  hunting is an activity involving the tracking , chase , and sometimes killing of a fox , traditionally  a  red fox , by trained  foxhounds  or other scent  hounds  , and a  समूह  of unarmed followers led by  a  master of  foxhounds  , who follow the  hounds  on foot or on horseback .
Fox hunting originated in  the  form practised  जबतक   recently   in  the United Kingdom in the 16th  सदी  ,  लकिन  is practised all over the  संसार  ,  सहित  in Australia ,  कनाडा  , France  ,  Ireland ,  इटली  and the United  राज्य  .
In Australia , the term also refers  to  the hunting  of  foxes with firearms  समान   to  spotlighting or deer hunting .
In much of the  संसार  hunting in general is understood to relate to any game animals or weapons ( e.g. , deer hunting with bow and arrow  )   ;  in Britain and Ireland , `` hunting ''  बगैर  qualification implies fox hunting  (  or other  फ़ॉर्म  of hunting  साथ  hounds-  beagling  , stag  शिकार  , mink hunting ,  खीचें   शिकार  or hunting the clean boot  )  as  वर्णित  here .
The sport is controversial  ,  particularly in the UK , where it was  बैन  in  स्कॉटलैंड  in 2002 , and in England  और  Wales in  नवम्बर   2004  ( law enforced from February 2005  )  , though shooting  foxes  as vermin remained  विधिक  .
proponents  of fox hunting view it as an  महत्वपूर्ण  part  of  rural culture and useful for reasons of conservation  और  pest control , while opponents argue that it is cruel and unnecessary .
Tobacco advertising is the  विज्ञापन   of  tobacco products or use  (   typically   सिगरेट  smoking ) by the  तम्बाकू  industry  through  a variety of  मीडिया  including sponsorship , particularly of sporting events .
It is now one of the most highly  regulated   फ़ॉर्म   of  marketing .
Some or all forms of  तम्बाकू  advertising are banned  in  many countries  .
Bally  technologies  ,  inc.  is a manufacturer of slot machines and  अन्य   गेमिंग  technology  आधारित  in Las Vegas , Nevada .
The company was founded in 1968 as Advanced Patent Technology  .
it  eventually  बदला  its  नाम   to  Alliance Gaming and acquired  ,  in  1996  , Bally Gaming  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   ,  a  पूर्व  division of Bally Manufacturing .
In 2006 , the entire company adopted  the  Bally name  ,  a trademark that originated  in  1932 by  the  Bally  निर्माण  Corporation .
gustave   doré  's engravings illustrated  the  Divine  कॉमेडी  ( 1861–1868 )  ;  here ,  दांते   is  lost in Canto 1 of  the  Inferno .
Inferno ( Italian  लिये   ``   नरक  `` )  is  the first part of Dante  एलीगियरी  's 14th-century  एपिक  poem  दैवी  Comedy .
It is  followed  by Purgatorio and Paradiso  .
It  is  an allegory telling of  the  journey of Dante through  नरक   ,   हिदायत  by the Roman poet Virgil  .
In the poem , Hell is depicted  as  nine  वृत्त  of suffering located within the  धरती  .
Allegorically  ,  the Divine Comedy represents the journey of the  आत्मा  towards God , with the Inferno describing the recognition and  अस्वीकृति  of  सिन  .
Smirnoff is a brand of vodka owned and  उत्पादित  by the British  कम्पनी   diageo   .
The Smirnoff brand began with  a   वोदका  distillery  संस्थापित  in Moscow by Pyotr Arsenievich Smirnov ( 1831–1898  )  .
It is  अभी  distributed in 130 countries .
It is produced in  अनेक  countries including India  ,  Ireland  ,   इटली  , the United Kingdom  और   the   संयुक्त  States .
Smirnoff products include vodka , flavoured vodka , and malt beverages .
In March  2006   ,  Diageo  उत्तर  America claimed that Smirnoff vodka was the best-selling distilled spirit brand in the world .
Big Brown ( foaled April 10 , 2005 in Kentucky ) is a  रिटायर्ड  champion American Thoroughbred racehorse and  विजेता   of  the 2008 Kentucky Derby and 2008 Preakness Stakes .
Bred by Dr. Gary B. Knapp 's Monticule Farms in Lexington , Kentucky , he won his first five race starts  .
He was sired by  ग्रेड   iii  winner Boundary , a son of North  अमरीकी  Champion sire Danzig , a son of Northern  नर्तकी   .
Big Brown 's dam was  mien   ,   भी  a granddaughter of Northern Dancer through her sire  ,  Nureyev .
the  Serenity Prayer is  the  common name for an originally untitled prayer by the American  theologian  Reinhold  niebuhr  ( 1892–1971 ) .
It has been adopted by Alcoholics Anonymous and  अन्य  twelve-step programs .
The best-known form is : God , grant me the serenity to accept  the   बाते  I can not change,
the  courage to change  the  things I  can,
And wisdom to know the difference .
the  Declaration and Resolves of the  पहला   महाद्वीपीय  Congress ( also known as the Declaration of Colonial Rights ,  or  the Declaration of Rights ) , was a  बयान  adopted by the First  महाद्वीपीय   कॉंग्रेस  on October 14 , 1774 , in response to the Intolerable  अधिनियमों  passed by the British Parliament .
The Declaration outlined colonial objections to the Intolerable  अधिनियमों   ,  listed  a  colonial bill of rights , and provided a  विस्तृत  list of grievances .
It was similar to the Declaration  of  Rights  और  Grievances  ,  passed by the  स्टैम्प  Act Congress  a  decade earlier .
The Declaration  concluded  with an outline of Congress  's   योजनाएँ   :   to  enter into  a  boycott of British trade ( the  महाद्वीपीय  Association ) until  उनके  grievances were redressed  ,  to publish addresses  to   the  people  of   ग्रेट  Britain  और   अंग्रेजों  America , and  to  send a petition to the King .
Pulse pressure is the pressure that  is  felt  जब  feeling the pulse .
Measured in millimeters of  पारा  ( mmHg ) , the pressure difference between the systolic  और  diastolic pressures is  the  pressure change to create the pulse , which is the pulse pressure .
if   resting  blood pressure is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of  पारा  (  mmhg   )  , pulse pressure is 40  .
The  पहाड़ियाँ  is  a  reality television series which  originally  aired  on  MTV from May  31   ,  2006 until  जुलाई   13  ,  2010  .
The show  उपयोग  a reality television format , following the personal lives of several young adults living in  लॉस  Angeles , California  ,  but  tends  towards a narrative format more commonly found in scripted genres  ऐसे  as soap operas .
The  श्रेणी  originally followed the personal life of former  लगुना  Beach  स्टार  Lauren Conrad and her friends '  नई   जीवनदान  in Los Angeles .
After five seasons , Conrad  बाएँ  the  श्रेणी  and was replaced by another former Laguna  बीच  star , Kristin Cavallari , beginning in the  दूसरी  half of the fifth season  .
The series concluded at the end of the  छठे  season .
Entertainment Weekly ranked The Hills 82nd on their list of `` The 100 Best  shows  of  the  Last 25 Years , '' stating that the series was  a  `` New Classic .  ''
एओएल  TV called it TV 's Biggest Guilty Pleasure .
The series premiered in syndication in the  पतन  of  2009  alongside Laguna  बीच  :  the  Real Orange County .
In poker  ,   ख़राब  beat is a subjective term for  a  hand in  जिससे   a  player with what appear to be  दमदार   ताश  nevertheless loses .
It most often occurs where one  खिलाड़ी  bets the clearly stronger hand and their  प्रतिद्वन्दी  makes a  ग़रीब   कॉल  that eventually `` hits '' and wins .
There is no consensus among poker  खिलाड़ी  as to what exactly  constitutes  a bad beat and  प्रायः  players will disagree  परिचय   whether  a particular  हाथ  was  a  bad beat .
The goldfish ( Carassius auratus auratus ) is  a  freshwater fish in the family  cyprinidae  of order Cypriniformes  .
it  was one of the earliest fish to be domesticated , and is one of the most commonly kept  एक्वेरियम  fish .
A relatively  छोटी  member of  the  carp  परिवार  ( which also  शामिल  the koi carp  और  the crucian carp ) ,  the  goldfish is a  domesticated  version of  a   less-colorful  carp ( Carassius auratus )  देशी  to  ईस्ट   एशिया  .
It  थी   पहला  domesticated in China  अधिक  than a thousand years ago , and several distinct breeds have  चूंकि  been developed .
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in size , body shape  ,  fin configuration and coloration ( various combinations of  श्वेत   ,   पीला  ,  नारंगी  , red , brown , and  ब्लैक  are known  )  .
Uncooked  rouladen
Rouladen ( or Rinderroulade , singular :  roulade  ) is a German  मांस  roulade usually consisting of bacon ,  प्याज  , mustard and  अचार  wrapped in thinly  sliced   बीफ  which is then cooked .
In some countries , the  roulade  is also  ज्ञात  as  ``  beef  ज़ैतून   ''  .
Beef or veal is used as meat though  कुछ   खाना   विद्वानों   tend  to  मानना  that the original version was probably venison  or  pork , and pork is still popular in some areas  .
The  बीफ  rouladen as we know them  आज  have become popular over the last century  .
The cut is usually topside  बीफ  or silverside  चूंकि  this is the cheaper cut  .
the  more expensive version would  be  the round  स्टीक  , also known as rump steak .
The  मांस  is  काटें  into large , thin  स्लाइस  .
The filling is a  मिश्रण  of  स्मोक्ड  and cooked pork belly , chopped onions  और  chopped pickles  (  gurken ) which is at times varied by adding minced meat , sausage  मांस  , pine nuts and mustard  .
The mixture varies from region to region .
Rouladen are traditionally served for dinner .
रेड  wine is often served with this dish .
Typical eukaryotic cell .
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic  प्रतिक्रियाएँ  and  प्रक्रियाओं  that  लो  place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) , and then release waste products .
the  reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions  ,   जिससे   ब्रेक   विशाल  molecules into smaller ones , releasing  उर्जा  in the  प्रक्रम   as  weak  so-called  `` high-energy  ''   bonds  are replaced by stronger  bonds  in the products .
Respiration is one of  the  key ways a cell  gains  useful energy to fuel  सेल्यूलर  activity .
Cellular respiration is considered an  ऊष्माक्षेपी  redox  प्रतिक्रिया  .
The overall reaction is broken  into  many smaller  ones  when  it  occurs in the  देह  , most of which are redox reactions themselves .
Although technically  ,  cellular respiration is a combustion reaction , it  clearly  does not resemble  एक  when  it  occurs in a living cell .
This difference is because it occurs in many  पृथक  steps .
जबकि  the overall  प्रतिक्रिया  is a combustion  प्रतिक्रिया  , no single reaction that comprises it is a combustion reaction .
nutrients   कि  are  commonly   प्रयुक्त  by animal  और  plant cells  in  respiration include sugar , amino acids and fatty acids ,  और  a  आम   oxidizing  agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular  ऑक्सीजन  ( O2 ) .
The energy stored in ATP ( its  तीसरा   फास्फेट   समूह  is weakly bonded to the rest  of  the molecule and is cheaply broken  allowing  stronger bonds to form  ,  thereby transferring energy for use by the cell  )  can then be  प्रयुक्त  to drive processes requiring energy , including biosynthesis , locomotion or transportation  of  molecules across  कोशिका  membranes .
Countries by 2011 GDP ( nominal ) according to the CIA World  factbook  .
This article includes a list of countries in the  संसार  sorted by  उनके  gross domestic  उत्पाद  ( GDP )  ,  the  मार्केट   मान   of   सब  final goods and services from  a  nation  in   a  given  साल  .
The  जीडीपी  dollar estimates presented here  हैं   गणना  at market or government official  एक्सचेंज   दरों  .
Several economies which are not considered  to  be countries (  संसार  , the EU  ,  and some dependent territories ) are included in the lists because they appear in the  स्त्रोत  .
These economies are not  क्रमित  in  the  charts  यहाँ  , but are  सूचीबद्ध   जहाँ  applicable .
The figures  प्रस्तुत  here  do   नहीं  take into account differences in the  लागत  of living in different countries , and the results can vary  greatly  from one year to another  आधारित  on fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country 's currency .
Such fluctuations may change a country 's ranking  इससे  one  साल  to the next , even though they often make little or no difference to the standard of living of its population .
Therefore these figures should  be  used  साथ  caution .
Some countries/regions may have citizens which  हैं  on average wealthy .
These countries/regions  could   appear  in this list as having a  छोटी  GDP .
This would  be   क्युकी   the   country/region   सूचीबद्ध  has a small population  ,  and therefore small  कुल   अर्थव्यवस्था   ;  the  जीडीपी  is calculated  as   the  population times the  माल  per capita .
comparisons  of national wealth  हैं  also  अक्सर   बना  on the basis of purchasing power parity (  ppp   )  ,  to  adjust for differences in the cost of living  in  different countries .
( See List of countries by GDP (  ppp  ) )
PPP largely  removes  the exchange  रेट  problem , but has its own drawbacks ; it does not reflect the value of economic output in international  व्यापार  , and it also requires more estimation than nominal GDP .
On the whole  ,   ppp  per  capita   आंकड़े   हैं  more narrowly spread than nominal GDP per capita  आंकड़े  .
The first list  शामिल  data  compiled   by  the United Nations  आंकडे  Division for 2011 .
The second list largely includes data ( estimate ) compiled by the International Monetary Fund for 2012  .
The third list  shows  the World Bank 's mostly  2011  estimates , and the fourth list includes mostly 2012 estimates from the CIA World Factbook  .
Lapping  is  a  machining  process  ,  in  जिससे   दो  surfaces  हैं  rubbed together with  an   अक्खड़  between them ,  by  hand  गति  or by way of a machine .
This can take two forms .
The first type of lapping ( traditionally called grinding )  ,  typically involves  रगड़  a  भंगुर   सामग्री   ऐसे  as glass against  a   सतह  such as iron  or  glass itself ( also known as the `` lap  ''  or grinding  औजार  ) with an abrasive such as aluminum oxide , jeweller 's rouge , optician 's  रूज  , emery , silicon carbide , diamond ,  etc.  , in between them .
This produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as  the  abrasive rolls about between the two  सतहों  and  removes  material from both  .
The other  रूप  of lapping involves a softer material such as  पिच  or a ceramic for the  गोद  , which is ``  चार्ज  ''  साथ   the   अक्खड़  .
the  lap is  तब  used to cut  a  harder material—the  workpiece  .
The abrasive embeds within the  softer   सामग्री   जिससे  holds it and permits it to  स्कोर  across and cut the harder material .
Taken  to  a  महीन  limit , this will  उपज   a   polished  surface such as with a polishing cloth on an  ऑटोमोबाइल  , or a polishing  cloth  or polishing pitch upon glass  or  steel .
Taken  to   the   परम  limit , with  the  aid of accurate interferometry and specialized  पॉलिशिंग   मशीने  or skilled hand polishing , lensmakers can  उपज  surfaces  कि  are flat to better than 30 nanometers .
This is one  बीसवीं   of  the wavelength  of  light from the commonly used 632.8 nm helium neon laser light  सोर्स  .
सतहों  this flat can be molecularly bonded (  optically  contacted ) by bringing them together  अंतर्गत  the right conditions .
(  इस  is not the same  as  the wringing effect of Johansson  ब्लॉक  ,  हालांकि  it is similar ) .
The  पद  `` America  's  Team  ''  is a popular nickname in the United States that refers to the Dallas Cowboys in  the   नेशनल  Football League  .
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978 highlight film , where the  narrator  opens  साथ  the following introduction : The term is recognized and often used  by  media outlets  ,  including ESPN ,  याहू  ! , HBO Sports , and Sports Illustrated .
My Babysitter 's a Vampire ( French : Ma gardienne est  un  vampire ) is  a  2011  कनाडाई  television series  ,   आधारित  on the  टेलीविज़न  film  of  the same  नाम   .
In Canada  ,  the series premiered in French on Télétoon on February 28 , 2011 , in English on Teletoon on March 14 , 2011 , and on  डिज़्नी  Channel in the  संयुक्त  States  on  June 27 , 2011  .
The  दिखाएँ  was  निर्मित  by Fresh TV , creators  of   6teen  and Total Drama .
The show follows Ethan Morgan ( Matthew Knight ) , who  ,  in  the  television film  ,  learns  कि   उसके  babysitter Sarah  (  Vanessa Morgan ) is a vampire .
in  the film , he learns he  is  able to have visions  और   उसके   बेहतरीन  friend  बेनी   वीयर  (  atticus  Mitchell  )  is a spellmaster .
the   श्रेणी  follows  the  three as they take  on  supernatural forces and  have  adventures , with occasional help from fellow vampires Rory  (   cameron   कैनेडी  ) and Erica ( Kate Todd  )   ,  while  dealing  with the troubles of  नियमित  high school  जीवन   .
a  second season was confirmed to start production in September 2011 and  it  first premiered on  डिज़्नी   चैनल  on June 29  ,   2012   ,  it premiered on Teletoon September 6 , 2012 .
télétoon  started featuring season 2  sneak-peak   एपीसोड  on October 28 ,  2012  and  premiered  it  on  January 10 , 2013
Dodge B Series utility circa  1950  , driven by Albert Namatjira
A pickup truck  or   pick-up  , often simply referred to  as   a  pickup , is a light motor  गाडी  with an open-top , rear cargo area ( bed )  .
In North America , the term  पिकअप  is used for  लाइट  trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory  निर्मित  , integrated  bed  ,  as  well as  लिये  coupé utility vehicles  ,  often based  on  a personal car chassis , but also often on  a  special dedicated chassi for  ऐसे  use .
Some countries have their own terms similar to pickup , such as ute in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  and New Zealand , or  bakkie  in  दक्षिण   अफ़्रीकी  .
विशाल   पिकअप   ट्रक  are somewhat rare in  यूरोपीय  ,  जहाँ  vans and light lorries are commonly  प्रयुक्त  for similar roles .
The President of the  संयुक्त  States of America  (  POTUS )  is  the  सिर  of state and head of government of the United States .
The president leads the executive branch of the federal government  और  is the  commander-in-chief  of the United  राज्य  Armed Forces  .
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive  शक्ति  of the United States in  the  president and charges him with the execution of federal  विधि  , alongside the responsibility of appointing federal executive , diplomatic , regulatory , and judicial officers , and concluding treaties with foreign powers , with the advice and consent  of  the Senate .
The president  is  further  सशक्त  to grant federal pardons  और  reprieves , and to convene and  adjourn  either  or  both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances .
Since the founding of the United States  ,  the power of the president  और  the federal government  have  grown  substantially  and each modern president , despite possessing no  औपचारिक  legislative powers beyond signing or  vetoing  congressionally passed bills ,  is  largely  जिम्मेदार  for dictating the  विधान   कार्यसूची  of his  पार्टी  and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States  .
The  अध्यक्ष  is frequently  वर्णित  as  the  most powerful person in the world .
the  president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College  to  a four-year term , and is  एक  of only two nationally elected federal officers , the  अन्य   होने  the Vice President of the United  राज्य  .
the  Twenty-second Amendment , adopted in 1951 , prohibits anyone  इससे  ever being elected to the  प्रेसिडेंसी  for a third full term .
It  भी   prohibits  a person from being elected to the  प्रेसिडेंसी   अधिक   than  once if that person previously  था  served as president  ,  or acting president , for more  than  two years  of   another  person  's  term as president  .
In all , 43 individuals have  परोसा  55 four-year terms .
On January 20  ,  2009 ,  बराक  Obama became the 44th and current president .
On November 6  ,   2012  ,  he  was re-elected and is scheduled to serve until January 20 , 2017 .
बोतलबंद  mineral water
Bottled  जल  is drinking water ( e.g. ,  खूब  water , distilled water ,  खनिज  water  ,  or  वसन्त  water  )   packaged   in   प्लास्टिक  or glass water bottles .
Bottled water  may  be carbonated  or  not .
Sizes range from small single  सेवारत  bottles to large carboys for water  coolers  .
मैप  of the major rivers , lakes , and reservoirs in India
मैप  showing rivers and flood prone areas in India
Rivers of India play an important role in the lives of  the  Indian people .
The river systems provide irrigation , potable water  ,   सस्ती  transportation , electricity  ,  and  the  livelihoods for a  विशाल  number of  लोगों  all  over  the country and to rural areas .
इस  easily explains why  nearly  all the  प्रमुख  cities of India are located by the banks of  नदियाँ  .
The rivers also  have  an important role  in  Hindu mythology and are considered holy by all Hindus in the country  .
Seven major rivers along with  उनके  numerous tributaries make up  the  river system of India .
Most of  the  rivers pour their  waters  into the  खाड़ी  of Bengal  ;  however  ,  some of the rivers whose courses take them through the western part of the country and towards the east  of   the  state of Himachal Pradesh empty into the Arabian  समुद्र  .
Parts of Ladakh  ,  northern  भाग  of the Aravlli range and  the  arid parts of the Thar Desert  have   अंतर्देशीय  drainage .
Dr.Francis Buchanan surveyed the courses  of  the rivers of India  साथ  with their tributaries and branches in  1810-11   ad  and presented a  मिनट   खाता  of  it   .
The shifting of the courses and bed over the centuries is very  उल्लेखनीय   .
Many of the channels mentioned  in  that survey have now  become  dead , dried or even extinct .
All major  नदियाँ  of India originate  इससे  one of the three main  watersheds   :
The  हिमालय  and the Karakoram  सीमाएँ
Vindhya  और   satpura  ranges and Chotanagpur plateau in central India
Sahyadri or Western  ghats  in western India
The  bretton   वुड्स  system of monetary management established the rules for  वाणिज्यिक  and financial relations among the world  's  major industrial  राज्य   in  the mid-20th century .
The  bretton  Woods system was the first example of  a  fully negotiated monetary  अनुक्रम  intended to  govern  monetary  संबंध  among independent nation-states .
Preparing to rebuild the international economic system as World  युद्ध  II was still raging , 730  delegates   इससे  all 44  अलाइड   राष्ट्र   gathered  at the Mount Washington  होटल   in  Bretton Woods , New Hampshire , United States  ,  for the  संयुक्त  Nations Monetary and Financial Conference .
The delegates deliberated during 1–22 July 1944 , and signed the Agreement on its final  दिन  .
Setting up a system of rules , institutions  ,  and procedures to regulate the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  monetary system , the  planners   at  Bretton Woods established the International Monetary Fund (  imf  ) and the International  बैंको  for  पुनर्निर्माण   और  Development (  ibrd  ) , which today is  भाग   of  the World Bank Group  .
These organizations became operational in 1945  बाद  a sufficient number of countries had ratified the agreement .
The chief features  of  the Bretton Woods system were an obligation  लिये  each country to  अपनाना  a monetary policy that maintained the exchange  रेट  by tying its currency to the  u.S.  dollar and the ability of the IMF to bridge temporary imbalances of payments  .
On 15 August 1971 ,  the  United States unilaterally terminated convertibility  of   the  US $ to  सुनहरा  .
This brought the  bretton   वुड्स  system to an end and saw the dollar become fiat currency .
This action , referred to  as   the  Nixon  शॉक  , created the  हालात  in  जिससे  the United States  डालर  became a reserve currency  प्रयुक्त  by many states  .
at   the  same time  ,  many fixed currencies ( such as GBP , for  उदाहरण  )  ,  also  became  free  फ्लोटिंग  .
Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. is an Italian company  कि  designs and  manufactures  motorcycles .
Headquartered in Bologna  ,   इटली  , Ducati is owned by Audi through its Italian  subsidiary  Lamborghini .
A credit score is a numerical expression based on a statistical analysis of a person  's  credit files , to represent the creditworthiness  of  that  व्यक्ति  .
A credit score is primarily based on credit report  सूचना  typically sourced from credit  bureaus  .
Lenders , such as banks and credit card companies , use credit scores to evaluate  the  potential risk  posed  by lending money to consumers  और  to mitigate  नुकसान  due to bad debt .
lenders  use credit scores  to  determine  जो  qualifies for a loan ,  at  what interest rate , and what credit limits  .
Lenders also use credit  स्कोर   to  determine  जिससे  customers are likely to bring in the most  आय  .
The use of  क्रेडिट   or  identity scoring prior to authorizing access  or  granting credit is an implementation of a trusted system .
Credit scoring is  नहीं  limited to  बैंको  .
Other organizations , such as mobile phone companies  ,  insurance companies , landlords  ,  and government departments employ the same techniques .
Credit scoring also has a lot of  ओवरलैप  with  आंकड़ा   खनन  ,  जिससे  uses many similar techniques  .
These techniques combine thousands of  कारकों  but  वे   हैं  more or less similar  or  the same  .
The seven SI base units and  the  interdependency of their definitions : for example , to  निकालें  the definition  of  the metre from the  गति  of light  ,  the definition of the second must be  ज्ञात   जबकि  the ampere and candela are both dependent on  the   परिभाषा  of energy which in turn is  पारिभाषित  in terms of  लंबाई  , mass and time .
the  International System of  इकाई  ( SI ) defines seven units of  माप  as a basic set from which all other  si  units are derived .
ये  SI base units and  उनके   शारीरिक  quantities are:
metre for length ( US  अंग्रेज़ी   :  meter )
kilogram  लिये  mass ( note : not the gram  )
second for time
ampere  for electric  वर्तमान
kelvin for temperature
candela for luminous intensity
mole  लिये   the  amount  of  substance  .
The SI base quantities form a set of mutually independent dimensions as required  by  dimensional analysis  commonly  employed in science and technology .
However , in a given realization of these units they  may   खूब  be interdependent , i.e . defined  in  terms  of  each other .
the   names  of SI units  हैं   लिखा  in lowercase characters  (  the 'degree Celsius ' meets this  नियम  ,  as  'degree ' is  the  unit  ,   और  'Celsius ' is a  modifier  )  .
The symbols of units  हैं  written  in  lowercase (  e.g   .  metre has the symbol m ) , except that symbols for units named after persons are written with an initial capital letter (  e.g.   ,  the hertz has the uppercase symbol Hz  )  .
Many other units , such  as   the  litre  (  US English : liter  )   ,  are formally  नहीं  part of the SI , but are accepted for  उपयोग  with SI .
Monument Canyon
Colorado National Monument  (  locally  referred  to as The Monument )  is  a part of the National  पार्क  Service near the city of  ग्रैंड  Junction ,  कोलोराडो  .
Spectacular  canyons  cut deep into  sandstone  and  भी   granite–gneiss–schist  rock formations  ,  in some areas .
इस   is  an area of  मरुस्थल  land high  on  the  कोलोराडो   पठार   ,   साथ  pinion and juniper forests  on  the plateau .
the  park hosts a wide range of wildlife , including red-tailed hawks and golden eagles  ,  ravens , jays ,  मरुस्थल  bighorn sheep , and coyotes  .
Activities include hiking , horseback riding , road bicycling , and scenic drives ; a visitor  बीच  on the  वेस्ट   पक्ष  contains a  प्राकृतिक  history museum  और  gift shop .
There are magnificent views from trails and  the   रिम   चट्टान  Drive , which winds along the plateau  .
Nearby are the Book Cliffs , and the  largest  flat-topped mountain in the world , the  ग्रैंड  Mesa  .
इसके  feature attraction is Monument  canyon  , which runs  the  width of  the   पार्क  , and  शामिल  rock  formations  such as Independence Monument , the Kissing Couple  ,   और  Coke Ovens .
The monument includes 20,500 acres ( 32 square miles ) , much  of  which has been  अनुशंसित   to   कॉंग्रेस  for designation  as  wilderness .
बाएँ  to right : Utility Uniform , Blue Dress  वर्दी   ,   सेवा  Uniform , and Evening  पोशाक  uniforms
The Uniforms  of  the United States Marine Corps serve  to  distinguish Marines  इससे   सदस्यों  of  अन्य  services .
Among current uniforms  in   the  United States Armed Forces  ,   the  Marines ' uniforms  have  been in service the longest .
the  Marine Dress Blue uniform has  ,  with few changes  ,  been worn in essentially its current form since the 19th century .
North American telephone area  कोड  419 and 567 serve the northwest quadrant of the U.S. state  of  Ohio  .
The largest city served by these  क्षेत्रफल   कोड  is Toledo ( and its suburbs of Holland , Maumee , Northwood , Oregon , Ottawa  पहाड़ियाँ  ,  perrysburg   ,  Rossford ,  sylvania  , Swanton ,  waterville  , and  whitehouse   )   .
Other cities served by these area codes include Ada , Ashland , Bellevue  ,   bluffton  , Bowling Green , Bryan ,  bucyrus  , Celina , Clyde ,  crestline  ,  defiance  , Delphos , Edison , Erastus , Findlay , Fostoria ,  fremont  , Galion , Kenton , Lima  ,  Mansfield , Mount Gilead , Napoleon ,  नॉरवॉक  , Oak Harbor , Port Clinton , Sandusky , Shelby  ,   st.   marys  ,  tiffin  ,  अपर  Sandusky , Van Wert ,  wapakoneta  ,  wauseon  ,  willard  .
Other areas served include the  झील   erie  Islands north of  बंदरगाहों  Clinton and west of Sandusky .
The main area code ,  419  , was created as  एक   of  the original  क्षेत्रफल  codes in October 1947 ; the  ओवरले  area  कोड  567  थी  created on January  1   ,   2002  .
Despite the presence  of  Toledo  ,   the  state 's fourth-largest city  ,  419 was the last of Ohio  's   असली  four area codes to have been  विभाजित  or overlaid  .
Mickey  लेरॉय  Gilley  (  born  कूच  9  ,  1936 ) is  an  American country music singer  और   संगीतकार   .
Although he started out singing straight-up  देश   और   पश्चिमी  material in  the  1970s ,  he  moved towards  a  more  पॉप  -friendly  ध्वनि   in  the  1980s   ,  bringing him further  कामयाबी  on not just  the  country charts , but the pop charts as  खूब  .
Among his biggest  हिट्स  are `` Room  पूरा  of Roses , '' `` Do n't the  लड़कियों  All  मिलेंगी  Prettier at Closing Time , '' and the remake of the Soul hit `` Stand by Me ``  .
He is also the cousin of Jerry Lee Lewis , Carl McVoy ,  जिम  Gilley and  jimmy  Swaggart .
According to the Federal Aviation  प्रशासन  , Gilley is a licensed pilot  ,  who holds an instrument  दरजा   साथ   वाणिज्यिक  pilot  privileges  for multi-engine airplanes , as  खूब  as private pilot  privileges  for  सिंगल  engine aircraft .
The September 11 attacks ( also  referred  to as  सितंबर  11 , September 11th , or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated terrorist attacks launched  by   the  Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United  राज्य   in  New York  नगर  and the  वॉशिंगटन   ,  D.C.  क्षेत्रफल  on September 11 , 2001 .
Four passenger airliners were hijacked  by  19 al-Qaeda terrorists so  वे  could be flown into  इमारतें  in suicide attacks .
Two of those  planes  , American  एयरलाइंस  Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175 , were crashed  into  the North and South towers , respectively ,  of  the World Trade Center complex  in  New York City .
भीतर  two hours  ,  both towers collapsed with debris and  the  resulting fires  causing  partial  or  complete collapse of all other  इमारतें  in the WTC complex  ,   as  well as major damage to ten other  विशाल  surrounding structures .
A third plane , American  एयरलाइंस  Flight 77 ,  थी  crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the  संयुक्त  States Department of  रक्षा  ) ,  अग्रणी   to  a  आंशिक  collapse in its  पश्चिमी  side .
the   चौथी  plane  ,  United Airlines Flight 93 ,  थी   targeted  at  the  United States Capitol in  वॉशिंगटन  , D.C. , but crashed into a  फ़ील्ड  near Shanksville , Pennsylvania , after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers .
In total , almost 3,000  लोगों   died  in  the  attacks , including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes .
Suspicion quickly fell on al-Qaeda .
Although the group 's leader , Osama bin Laden , initially denied any involvement , in  2004  he claimed  जिम्मेदारी  for the  हमले  .
Al-Qaeda and bin  लादेन  cited  u.S.  support of Israel ,  the  presence of U.S.  सैनिकों  in  सऊदी   अरब  , and  प्रतिबंधों  against Iraq as motives for the attacks .
The United States responded  to   the  attacks  by  launching the War on Terror and invading Afghanistan  to   depose  the Taliban , which had  harbored  al-Qaeda .
अनेक  countries strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation and expanded law  प्रवर्तन  powers .
Having  evaded  capture  लिये   सालो  , bin Laden  थी  located and  मारे  by U.S. forces in May 2011 .
The destruction of  the  Twin  मीनारें  and other  गुण  caused  गंभीर  damage to  the  economy of  निम्नतर  Manhattan and had  a  significant effect on  वैश्विक  markets .
Cleanup of the World Trade Center site was completed in  may  2002 ,  और  the  प्रस्तुतीकरण   थी  repaired within a year .
Numerous memorials have been constructed , including the National September 11 Memorial &  संग्रहालय   in  New York , the Pentagon Memorial , and  the  Flight 93 National Memorial  in  Pennsylvania .
After a  lengthy   विलंब  , the One World  व्यापार  Center is expected to be completed at Ground Zero  in  New  यॉर्क   नगर  in 2013  .
Finding Nemo  is  a 2003  अमरीकी   computer-animated   comedy-drama  adventure film written  और   निर्देशित  by Andrew Stanton ,  released   by  Walt Disney Pictures ,  और  the fifth  फिल्मी  produced by Pixar Animation Studios .
It  tells  the story of the over-protective clownfish named Marlin ( Albert Brooks ) who , along with a regal  तंग   नामित  Dory  (  Ellen DeGeneres  )  , searches  लिये  his abducted  बेटे  Nemo  (   सिकंदर  Gould  )  all the way to Sydney Harbour  .
Along the way  ,  Marlin learns to take risks and let Nemo take care of himself .
it  is Pixar 's first film to be released in  cinemas  in the  उत्तरी  hemisphere summer .
The  फिल्मी  was re-released for the first time in 3D on  सितंबर  14  ,  2012 , and it was  released  on Blu-ray on December 4 , 2012 .
A sequel , Finding Dory  ,  is currently in development , set  to  be  released  on November 25  ,  2015  .
The film received  सार्वभौमिक  critical acclaim and won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature , and was nominated in three more categories including  बेहतरीन  Original Screenplay .
It  थी  the second highest-grossing film of 2003 , earning  a  total of $ 921 million  विश्वव्यापी   .
Finding  nemo  is  भी  the best-selling DVD of all time , with over 40 million copies sold as of 2006 ,  और   थी  the highest-grossing G-rated film of all time before Pixar 's  अपना  Toy Story  3   overtook  it .
It  is  also the 23rd highest-grossing film of all time , as well  as  the 3rd highest-grossing animated film .
In 2008 , the  अमरीकी  Film Institute named it the tenth greatest  एनिमेटेड  film ever  बना  during  उनके  Top 10 .
The sixth season of  अमेरिका  's Best  नृत्य  Crew  ,  also  ज्ञात  as America 's  बेहतरीन  Dance  क्रू   :  Season of the  सुपरस्टार  , premiered on April  7  , 2011 and concluded on June 5 , 2011 .
Auditions were  आयोजित   in  four cities  इससे   जनवरी  21 through February 5 : Chicago , Houston , New  यॉर्क  , and Los Angeles .
This season takes a different  रूट  from past seasons .
The crews must perform to the music of one  विशिष्ट  artist  प्रत्येक  week , including Rihanna , Lil Wayne , and other popular stars .
This season also features special guest appearances by various music  हस्तियाँ  including Justin Bieber , The  ब्लैक  Eyed Peas , Katy Perry , Kesha  ,  Nicki Minaj , and Kanye West .
डोमिनिक   ``   d-trix  '' Sandoval , a former  सदस्य  of Quest  क्रू  , the winner  of  the  तीसरा  season  of   अमेरिका  's Best  नृत्य  Crew  ,  joins  returning  judges Lil  मामा  and JC Chasez as  the  newest judge .
In the season finale , I aM mE  थी  declared the winner of Season  6  and received the  $  100,000 (  usd  ) prize  .
In the United States , Social Security refers to the  old-age   ,  Survivors , and Disability  बीमे  ( OASDI )  संघीय  program .
The original Social Security  अधिनियम  (  1935  ) and the  वर्तमान  version of the Act , as amended , encompass  अनेक  social  welfare   और  social insurance programs  .
Social Security is primarily  वित्तपोषित  through dedicated  payroll  taxes called Federal  बीमे  Contributions Act  कर  ( FICA ) .
कर   जमा  are formally entrusted to the  संघीय  Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund , the Federal  विकलांगता   बीमे  Trust Fund  ,  the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund  ,   or   the   संघीय   अनुपूरक  Medical Insurance Trust Fund which comprise the  सोशल  Security Trust Fund .
Upward redistribution of income  is  responsible for about  43  % of the projected Social  सुरक्षा  shortfall over  the  next 75 years  .
According  to  economist Martin Feldstein , the combined spending for all social insurance programs in 2003 constituted 37 % of  सरकारी  expenditure and 7 %  of   the   सकल  domestic product .
Social Security  is  currently  अनुमानित  to keep roughly 40 percent of all  अमेरिकी  age 65 or older out of poverty .
the   सोशल  Security Administration  is  headquartered  in  Woodlawn , Maryland  ,  just west of Baltimore .
The alcohol by  आवाज़  shown on a bottle of absinthe .
Alcohol by volume ( abbreviated  as  ABV  ,  abv  ,  or alc/vol )  is  a standard  माप   of   कैसा   much  alcohol ( ethanol ) is contained in an  alcoholic  beverage ( expressed as a percentage of total volume ) .
The  abv  standard is used worldwide .
in  some  देशों  , alcohol by volume is referred to as degrees Gay-Lussac ( after the French chemist Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac ) .
Laurel  खोखला  is  a  village  in  the Town  of  Oyster Bay  in  Nassau  काउंटी  , New  यॉर्क  in the United States .
the  population was 1,952 at  the   2010  census  .
Charles  जॉन  Huffam Dickens ( ; 7 February 1812  –  9 June 1870 ) was an  अंग्रेज़ी  writer and social critic .
He created some of  the   संसार  's most  यादगार   fictional  characters  और  is generally regarded as the greatest novelist  of  the Victorian  काल  .
During  उसके  life , his works enjoyed unprecedented fame  ,  and by the twentieth century his  साहित्यिक  genius  थी  broadly acknowledged by critics and scholars .
His novels  और  short stories  continue  to be widely popular  .
Born in Portsmouth  ,  England , Dickens left school to work  in  a factory after his father  थी   thrown  into debtors ' prison .
Although he had little formal education ,  उसके  early impoverishment drove  उसे  to succeed  .
Over  उसके  career he edited a weekly journal  लिये  20 years ,  लिखा  15  novels  , 5 novellas  और  hundreds of  छोटी  stories and  non-fiction   आलेख  , lectured and performed extensively ,  थी  an indefatigable  अक्षर  writer , and  campaigned  vigorously for children 's rights , education  ,   और  other social reforms  .
Dickens sprang to fame with  the  1836 serial publication of The Pickwick Papers .
Within a few years  he   था  become an international literary celebrity , famous for his humour , satire , and  keen   अवलोकन   of  character and society .
His novels , most published in monthly or weekly instalments , pioneered the serial publication of narrative fiction , which became the dominant Victorian  विधि  for novel publication  .
the   किस्त  format allowed Dickens  to  evaluate his audience 's reaction , and he often  परिवर्धित  his plot and character  विकास  based on  ऐसे  feedback .
For example , when  उसके   बीवी  's chiropodist expressed distress at  the  way Miss Mowcher in David Copperfield seemed  to   प्रतिबिंबित   उसके  disabilities  ,  Dickens  गई  on to  improve  the  अक्षर  with  धनात्मक  lineaments .
Fagin in Oliver Twist apparently mirrors  the  famous fence Ikey Solomon  ;  His caricature of Leigh Hunt in the figure  of  Mr Skimpole in Bleak House was likewise toned  bas  on  सलाह  from some of his friends , as they read  एपीसोड  .
In the same  अनोखा  , both  लॉरेंस  Boythorne  और   मूनी  the beadle are drawn from real life – Boythorne from Walter  जंगली  Landor and Mooney  इससे  'Looney ' , a beadle at  salisbury  Square .
His plots were carefully constructed  ,  and Dickens often wove in elements from topical events into his narratives .
Masses of the illiterate  ग़रीब  chipped in ha'pennies to  have  each  नई  monthly episode read to  उन्हें  , opening up and inspiring a new  क्लास  of readers  .
डिकेंस   थी  regarded as the literary colossus of  उसके  age .
His  1843   novella  , A Christmas Carol , is  एक  of  the  most influential works  कभी  written , and it remains  लोकप्रिय   और   continues  to inspire adaptations in every artistic genre .
उसके   रचनात्मक  genius has been praised by fellow writers—from Leo Tolstoy to G. K. Chesterton and George Orwell  —for  its realism , comedy ,  गद्य   स्टाइल   ,  unique  characterisations  , and social criticism .
On  the  other hand Oscar Wilde ,  हेनरी  James and Virginia Woolf complained  of  a lack of psychological depth  ,   ढीला  writing ,  और  a  रग  of saccharine sentimentalism  .
मार्टिन  Luther King  और  other civil rights leaders in  सामने  of the statue  of  Abraham Lincoln , August 28 , 1963
The civil rights movement was  a   श्रेणी  of worldwide political  आंदोलनों  for equality before the law that  peaked   in  the  1960s  .
In many situations it took the form  of  campaigns of  सिविल  resistance aimed at  achieving  change by nonviolent forms  of  resistance .
In some situations it was accompanied  ,  or followed , by civil unrest and armed rebellion  .
the  process was long and  tenuous  in many countries  ,  and  अनेक  of these movements did not fully achieve their goals  हालांकि  ,  the  efforts of these movements did  सीसे   to  improvements in the legal  अधिकारों  of previously oppressed groups  of  people .
The main aim of  the  civil rights movement included ,  और  include , ensuring  कि   the  rights of all people are equally  सुरक्षित  by  the  law , including the rights of minorities .
Civil rights movements ranging from the global  lgbt  rights  गति  to the global Women  's  rights movement  to   विभिन्न  racial minority rights movements around the world continue .
The 2010 FIFA World Cup was the 19th FIFA World Cup , the world championship  लिये  men 's national  संघ  football teams .
It took  प्लेस  in South  अफ़्रीकी  from 11 June to 11 July  2010  .
The  bidding   प्रक्रम  for  होस्टिंग  the tournament finals was open only to  अफ़्रीकी   राष्ट्र  ; in 2004  ,   the  international football federation , FIFA  ,  selected South Africa over Egypt  और  Morocco to become the  पहला  African  स्वदेश  to host the finals .
The matches were  निभाई  in ten stadiums in nine host cities  around  the country  ,  with  the   फाइनल  played at  the  Soccer  नगर  stadium  in  South Africa 's largest city , Johannesburg .
Thirty-two teams were selected  लिये  participation via  a   विश्वव्यापी  qualification tournament that began  in  August 2007 .
In  the  first round of the  टूर्नामेंट  finals , the teams competed in round-robin groups of four teams for points , with the top two teams in each group proceeding .
ये  sixteen teams  उन्नत  to the  नॉकआउट  stage , where three rounds  of  play decided which teams would participate  in  the  फाइनल  .
in   the  final ,  स्पेन  ,  the  European champions  ,  defeated third-time  finalists  the Netherlands 1–0 after extra time , with Andrés Iniesta 's goal in the 116th minute giving Spain  उनके  first world title , becoming  the   आठवीं  nation  to  win the tournament , and the first European nation to win  the  tournament outside its  घर  continent .
Host  स्वदेश  South Africa , 2006 world champions Italy and  2006  runners-up France  यहूद  all eliminated in the first round of  the  tournament .
It  थी   the   पहला   समय  that the hosts were eliminated in  the  first round .
नई   जीलैंड   साथ  their three draws  यहूद  the only undefeated  टोली   in  the tournament , but  यहूद   भी  eliminated in the  पहला  round .
The McMuffin is a  परिवार   of  breakfast  सैंडविच  in  विभिन्न  sizes and configurations , sold  by  the  fast-food  restaurant chain McDonald 's .
The Egg McMuffin is the signature breakfast  सैंडविच  ; it was invented by the late McDonald 's franchisee Herb Peterson in  the  late  1960s   और  was introduced  देशभर  in 1972 .
जॉन  Lennon  थी  an English  संगीतकार   जो  gained worldwide fame as one of the founders of  the  Beatles  ,  for his subsequent solo career ,  और  for  उसके  political  सक्रियता  and pacifism .
He was shot  by  Mark  दाउद  Chapman at the entrance of the building where  he   जिया   ,  The Dakota , in New  यॉर्क  City on 8  दिसम्बर   1980  .
Lennon had just returned from Record Plant  स्टुडियो   साथ  his wife , Yoko  ओनो  .
Lennon was pronounced dead on  आगमन  at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital  बीच  , where it was stated  कि  nobody could have  जिया  for more than a few minutes after sustaining such injuries .
Shortly after local news  स्टेशन  reported Lennon 's death , crowds gathered at Roosevelt Hospital and in front of the Dakota  .
लेनन  was cremated on 10 December  1980  at  the  Ferncliff  कब्रिस्तान  in Hartsdale , New  यॉर्क  ; the ashes were given  to   ओनो  , who chose  नहीं  to hold a  अंत्येष्टि  for him .
the  first report of  लेनन  's death  to  a U.S. national audience was announced  by  Howard Cosell , on ABC 's Monday Night  फ़ुटबॉल  .
New Orleans  (  or ,  locally  or ; )  is  a major United States port  और  the largest city and metropolitan area  in  the  राज्य  of Louisiana .
The population of the city was 343,829 as of  the  2010 U.S. Census .
The New Orleans metropolitan area (  नई   orleans–metairie–kenner  Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was  the  46th largest in the United States .
the  New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined Statistical  क्षेत्रफल  , a  larger  trading area  ,   था  a 2010 population  of  1,214,932 .
The city  is  named  बाद  Orléans , a city located on the Loire River in Centre  ,   फ़्रांस  ,  और   is  well known for its distinct French Creole architecture , as  खूब   as  its cross-cultural and  बहुभाषी  heritage .
New Orleans is  भी  famous  लिये  its cuisine , music ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz )  ,   और   इसके  annual celebrations and festivals  ,  most notably Mardi Gras  .
The city is  प्रायः   referred  to as the `` most unique '' in America  .
New Orleans is located in southeastern Louisiana , straddling the Mississippi River  .
the   नगर  and Orleans Parish ( ) are .
The  नगर  and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north , St. Bernard to  the   ईस्ट   ,  Plaquemines to the south and  जेफरसन  to the south and west  .
Lake  pontchartrain   ,  part of which is included in  the  city limits , lies  to  the north and Lake Borgne lies to the  ईस्ट  .
The  संयुक्त  States presidential  चुनाव   of  1968  थी  the 46th quadrennial presidential election , held on Tuesday , November  5  , 1968 .
The Republican nominee ,  पूर्व  Vice-President Richard  निक्सन  , won the  चुनाव  over the Democratic nominee , incumbent  vice-president   ह्यूबर्ट   humphrey  .
Nixon ran  on  a campaign  कि  promised to  restore  law  और  order  to   the  nation 's  शहरों  , torn by riots and crime .
Analysts have  argued   the   चुनाव  of 1968 is  a  realigning  चुनाव  as it permanently disrupted the New Deal Coalition that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years .
Coming four  सालो  after  डेमोक्रेट  Lyndon B. Johnson won in  a  historic landslide , the election saw the incumbent  अध्यक्ष  forced out  of  the race and a Republican elected for the first time  in  twelve  सालो   .
it  was a  विदारक  national  अनुभव   ,  conducted during a  साल  of violence that included the assassination of civil  अधिकारों  leader Martin  लूथर  King , Jr. , and subsequent  रेस  riots across the nation , the assasination of Democratic presidential  प्रत्याशी  Robert  F.  Kennedy , widespread opposition to  the  Vietnam War  आरपार   विश्वविद्यालयों  campuses , and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at  the  1968  लोकतांत्रिक   नेशनल  Convention as the Democratic  पार्टी  split again and again  .
the   चुनाव  featured the strongest third party effort since 1912 by former  अलबामा  Governor George  वालेस   ,  a Democrat  .
क्युकी   वालेस  's campaign opposed federal intervention in the South to end school segregation , he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic  औद्योगिक  districts in  the  North .
This was the last  चुनाव  in which  नई  York  था  the most votes in the electoral  कॉलेज  ( 43 votes  )   .
After the  1970  census ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   gained  the  सबसे  electoral votes and has  remained  the most populous state since then .
This is the  नवीनतम  election where a presidential  टिकट  won without carrying the  वाइस  presidential candidate 's home state .
Karak ( ;  भी  known as Garak , Garrak ,  और   gorg  ) is a  गाँव  in Gamasiyab  ग्रामीण  District , in the Central District of Nahavand County ,  हमादान  Province ,  इरान   .
At the  2006  census , its population was  294  , in 65 families .
कर्ट  's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain  (   फ़रवरी  20  ,  1967  –  April 5 , 1994 )  थी  an American musician and artist , best  ज्ञात  as the lead singer ,  guitarist  and primary songwriter of the  grunge  band  निर्वाण  .
Cobain  formed  Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985  और  established it  as   भाग  of  the  Seattle music scene ,  having  its debut  एल्बम  Bleach released on  the  independent record label Sub  पॉप  in  1989  .
After  हस्ताक्षर  with  प्रमुख  label DGC Records , the  बैंड  found breakthrough success with ``  खुश्बू  Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ) .
following  the success of Nevermind , Nirvana  थी  labeled  ``  the flagship band ''  of  Generation X , and  कोबेन   hailed  as `` the spokesman of  a  generation  ''  .
Cobain  ,  however ,  थी  often uncomfortable and frustrated  ,  believing his message and artistic  दृष्टि  to have been misinterpreted  by  the public ,  साथ  his  निजी  issues  प्रायः  subject to media attention .
He challenged  निर्वाण  's audience with its final studio album  in   utero   (  1993  )  .
During the last  सालो  of his  जीवन  , Cobain struggled with heroin  व्यसन   ,  illness and  अवसाद  .
he  also had difficulty  coping  with his fame and public image , and the professional and  lifelong  personal pressures surrounding  खुद  and  उसके   बीवी   ,   संगीतकार  Courtney Love  .
On April 8  ,  1994 , Cobain was  मिला  dead at  उसके  home in Seattle ,  the  victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head  .
the  circumstances of his death at age 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana , with Cobain as a  songwriter  ,  रै  sold over 25  लाख  albums in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
A millwright is a craftsman  or  tradesman  सगाई  with  the  construction  और   मेंटेनेंस  of machinery .
अधिक  generally in the English  बोलना  world ,  जल्दी   millwrights  were specialist carpenters who  erected  machines used in agriculture  ,  food processing and processing lumber  और  paper .
In the early part  of  the Industrial Revolution , their skills were pressed into service building  the  earliest powered textile mills .
Modern  millwrights  work with steel and other  सामग्री  in  जोड  to  लकडी  and must often combine the skills of several skilled trades  in  order to successfully fabricate industrial machinery or  to  assemble  मशीने   इससे   pre-fabricated  parts .
The modern millwright must  भी  be able to read  blueprints  and other schematics to aid him in the construction of complex  प्रणालियों  .
Millwrights  हैं  frequently unionized , with around  45  %  unionized   in  the  us  , although experienced millwrights often set themselves up as independent  ठेकेदारों  .
The Adjustment Bureau is a  2011  American  रोमांटिक  action  थ्रिलर  film loosely based on  the  Philip K. Dick short story , `` Adjustment  टोली  `` .
the  film was written and directed by George Nolfi and stars Matt Damon  और  Emily Blunt .
the  cast also  शामिल  Anthony  mackie  , John  slattery  ,  माइकल  Kelly , and Terence Stamp .
The  स्कोर  was composed  by   थामस  Newman , with  दो  songs by Richard  ashcroft  ( `` Future 's Bright '' for  the  opening sequence ;  ``  Are You Ready ? '' for the closing credits ) .
सोडियम  azide is the inorganic compound with the formula NaN3  .
This  colorless  salt is the gas-forming  घटक  in many car  एयरबैग  systems  .
It is  प्रयुक्त  for the  तैयारी  of other azide compounds .
It is an ionic substance , is highly soluble in water , and  is  very acutely toxic  .
Double rainbow  और  supernumerary rainbows  on  the inside of the primary arc  .
The shadow of  the  photographer 's head on the  नीचे   marks  the centre of the rainbow circle ( antisolar point ) .
A rainbow  is  an optical  और  meteorological phenomenon that  is   caused  by reflection of light in water droplets in the  धरती  's atmosphere , resulting in a spectrum  of  light appearing in  the  sky .
It takes  the  form of a multicoloured arc  .
Rainbows caused by sunlight always appear in the  खण्ड   of  sky directly opposite the sun .
in  a `` primary rainbow ''  ,  the arc shows red  on   the  outer part and  बैंगनी  on the inner side .
This rainbow  is  caused by  लाइट  being refracted while entering a droplet of water , then  reflected  inside on the back of  the  droplet and  refracted  again when leaving it .
In  a  double rainbow , a second  चाप  is seen outside the primary arc , and has the  अनुक्रम  of its  रंग  reversed  ,  red  facing  toward the other one , in both rainbows  .
This second rainbow is caused by light reflecting twice inside water droplets .
the  Conservative  पार्टी  , officially the Conservative and Unionist Party  और   colloquially   referred  to as the Tory Party  or  the Tories , is a centre-right political  पार्टी  in the United Kingdom that espouses the philosophies  of  conservatism and British unionism  .
it is  the  largest  राजनैतिक  party in the United Kingdom , being the  largest  single party in  the  House of  कॉमन्स  with 303 MPs , the largest party in local government  साथ   9,391  councillors  ,  and the largest British  पार्टी  in  the  European Parliament  साथ   25  MEPs .
It governs in coalition with  the  Liberal Democrats ,  साथ   पार्टी  leader David Cameron  as  Prime Minister .
The  रूढ़िवादी   पार्टी  was founded in 1834 ,  और  was one of two dominant parties in  the  19th century ,  साथ  with  the  Liberal Party .
It changed its  नाम  to  the  Conservative and  यूनियनिस्ट  Party in 1912 after merging with the Liberal Unionist Party ,  हालांकि   कि  name is rarely used and it  is  generally  referred  to  as  simply the Conservative Party  .
In  the   1920s  , the  उदार  vote greatly diminished  और  the  श्रमिक  Party  became  the Conservatives '  प्रमुख  rivals .
Conservative Prime Ministers led  सरकारें  for 57 years of  the  20th century ,  सहित  Winston Churchill ( 1940–45 , 1951–55  )  and Margaret  थैचर   (   1979–90  ) .
Thatcher  's  tenure led to wide-ranging economic  उदारीकरण  and saw the Conservatives become the most eurosceptic of the  तीन  major parties .
The party was  लौटे  to government in coalition , having failed to win  a  majority , in 2010 under the  अधिक  `` liberal '' leadership of David Cameron .
In the European Parliament ,  the  Conservatives are the  largest  British party with  25  MEPs  ,  who sit with the soft eurosceptic European Conservatives and  reformists  (  ecr  ) parliamentary group , while the  पार्टी  itself is a member of  the  Alliance of European Conservatives  और  Reformists ( AECR  )  Europarty .
They  हैं  the third-largest party  in  the Scottish Parliament and second-largest in the Welsh Assembly .
They were formally allied to the Ulster  यूनियनिस्ट  Party ( UUP ) as  भाग  of the  ulster  Conservatives and Unionists arrangement , with the UUP currently participating in the five-party  उत्तरी  Ireland  कार्यपालिका  .
Destiny 's Child was an American R & B girl group whose final , and  शायद   सबसे   recognizable   ,  line-up comprised Beyoncé Knowles , Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams  .
Formed in 1990 in Houston , Texas ,  नियति  's Child members began their musical  endeavors   as  Girl  's  Tyme comprising  ,  among others , Knowles , Rowland , LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett .
After years of  सीमित  success , they  यहूद  signed to  कोलंबिया  Records as Destiny 's  चाइल्ड   .
Destiny 's Child  थी   शुभारम्भ  into mainstream  मान्यता  following the release  of  their  best-selling  second  एल्बम  , The Writing 's on  the  Wall , which contained  the  number-one singles `` Bills ,  बिल्स  ,  बिल्स  `` and `` Say  my  Name `` .
despite  critical and commercial success  ,   the  group was plagued by internal conflict and legal turmoil  ,  as Roberson and Luckett attempted to split from  the  group 's  मैनेजर  Mathew Knowles , citing favoritism of Knowles and Rowland ,  उसके   बेटी  and niece ,  क्रमशः  .
Both Roberson  और  Luckett  यहूद  soon replaced  साथ  Williams and Farrah Franklin  ;  however ,  in  2000 ,  फ्रैंकलिन  was  बर्खास्त  , leaving  उन्हें  as a trio .
Their  तीसरा  album , Survivor , which contains themes the public interpreted as a channel  to  the group 's experience , contains the worldwide hits `` Independent Women `` ,  ``  Survivor `` and  ``  Bootylicious `` .
In 2002 , they announced a hiatus  और   re-united  two years later for the release of their fourth studio album , Destiny  fulfilled  ( 2004 ) .
Destiny 's Child has sold  अधिक  than 50 million records worldwide to date .
Billboard magazine ranks  the  group  as  one  of  the greatest musical  trios   of  all time , the ninth  सबसे  successful artist/band of the 2000s , and  लगाई  the group 68th in its All-Time Hot 100 Artists  सूची  in 2008 .
The Centers for Disease Control  और   रोकथाम  ( CDC ) is a  संयुक्त   राज्य  federal agency under the Department of  स्वास्थ्य   और  Human Services headquartered  in  Druid Hills , unincorporated  dekalb  County , Georgia , in Greater  अटलांटा  .
It works  to  protect public health  और   सुरक्षा  by providing information to enhance health decisions  ,  and it promotes health through partnerships  साथ  state health departments and other organizations  .
The CDC focus  नेशनल  attention  on  developing and applying disease prevention and control (  विशेषकर  infectious diseases and  foodborne  pathogens and other microbial infections  )  , environmental  स्वास्थ्य  , occupational safety and health , health promotion , injury prevention and education activities designed  to  improve the health of  the  people of the United States .
The CDC  is   the  United States '  नेशनल  public health institute and is a founding member of the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Association of National Public Health Institutes  .
Earthquake prediction  ``  is usually defined as the specification of the time , location , and  परिमाण  of a future earthquake within stated  हद  '' , and particularly of `` the next strong earthquake to occur in  a  region . ''
इस   can  be distinguished  इससे  earthquake forecasting , which  is   the  probabilistic assessment of general earthquake hazard  ,  including the frequency and magnitude of damaging earthquakes , in a given area over periods  of  years or decades .
This  can  be further distinguished from real-time  भूकंप  warning systems , which  ,  upon  डिटेक्शन  of a severe  भूकंप  , can  provide  neighboring regions  a   few  seconds  चेतावनी   of  potentially significant shaking  .
to  be useful ,  an  earthquake  भविष्यवाणी  must  be  precise enough to warrant  the  cost of increased precautions , including  disruption  of ordinary activities and commerce , and timely  पर्याप्त  that preparation can  be  made .
पूर्वानुमान  must also be reliable ,  as  false alarms and cancelled  सचेतक   हैं   नहीं  only economically costly , but seriously undermine  विश्वास  in , and thereby the effectiveness of , any kind of warning .
With over 7,000 earthquakes  around   the  world each year with a magnitude of  4.0   or   वृहद  , trivial success in earthquake  भविष्यवाणी  is easily obtained using sufficiently broad parameters of time ,  स्थान  , or magnitude  .
However , such trivial  ``  successful predictions '' are not useful  .
Major earthquakes are often followed by  रिपोर्ट्स   कि  they  यहूद  predicted , or at  तनिक   anticipated  , but no claim of a successful prediction of  a  major earthquake has survived close  पूछताछ  .
In the 1970s there  थी  intense  आशावाद  amongst scientists  कि  some  विधि  of predicting earthquakes  might  be  मिला  , but by the 1990s  continuing  failure led many scientists to question whether  it  was even  संभावित   .
While many scientists still  थाम   कि  , given enough resources , prediction might be possible , many others maintain that earthquake prediction is inherently impossible .
Deborah  ऐन   ``  Debby '' Ryan ( born  may  13  ,  1993 )  is   an  American  अभिनेत्री  , singer , musician ,  songwriter  and record producer .
Ryan is  बेहतरीन  known for starring as Bailey Pickett in the  डिज़्नी  Channel Original Series  the  Suite  जीवन  on Deck  .
In 2008 , The Suite Life on  डेक   क्रमित  as TV 's  शीर्ष   श्रेणी  among kids 6-11  और  the No . 2 scripted series among tweens  9-14  .
Ryan started acting in  पेशेवर   थिएटर  at the  आयु   of  seven ;  in  2007  वो  appeared  in  the  बार्नी  & Friends straight-to-DVD film Barney : Let 's Go to the  फायरहाउस  and then  थी   खोजा  in a nationwide  ढूंढें  by  डिज़्नी   .
She is also known for appearing  in   the  2008 feature film  the  Longshots  as  Edith .
In 2009 , she guest starred in an episode of Wizards of  waverly  Place in Wizards on Deck with Hannah Montana as Bailey Pickett along  साथ  her other cast  mates  from The Suite Life on Deck .
तब  , in 2010 , she starred in the film 16 Wishes , which  थी   the   सबसे  watched cable  कार्यक्रम  on  the  day  of  its premiere on  the  Disney Channel .
16 Wishes introduced Ryan to new audiences ;  the  movie received high viewership  in  the  वयस्कों  demographic  (  18-34 ) .
Soon after that , Ryan starred in  the  independent theatrical  फिल्मी  , What If ... ,  जिससे   premiered   on  August 20 , 2010 .
रयान  also starred in the new Disney Channel Original movie  ,   रेडियो  Rebel , where she portrays the role of  tara  Adams , a shy 17-year-old girl  जो  adopts the  रेडियो  personality , Radio Rebel .
Released February  17  ,  2012  .
Ryan stars in the titular role in  the  Disney Channel Original Series , Jessie .
Stührling Tourbillon Movement  (  ) .
in   horology   ,  a tourbillon ( ; ``  whirlwind  '' ) is an addition to the mechanics of a watch escapement .
Developed around 1795 by the French-Swiss watchmaker Abraham-Louis  breguet  from an earlier idea by the  अंग्रेज़ी  chronometer maker John Arnold  ,  a  tourbillon   aims  to counter the effects of gravity by  mounting  the escapement  और  balance wheel in a rotating  पिंजरा  , to negate the effect of gravity when the timepiece (  यूँ   the  escapement ) is stuck  in   a  certain position  .
Originally an attempt to improve accuracy  ,  tourbillons are still  शामिल  in some expensive  आधुनिक  watches  as  a novelty  और  demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity .
the  mechanism is usually exposed on the watch 's face to show it  बंद  .
The Windows Installer (  previously   ज्ञात  as Microsoft  installer  ) is a software component  प्रयुक्त  for the installation , maintenance  ,  and  हटाना  of  तन्त्र  on  आधुनिक  Microsoft  खिड़कियाँ  systems .
The installation information  ,  and often the files themselves , are packaged  in   संस्थापना  packages , loosely relational databases  संरचित  as  com  Structured Storages  और  commonly known as `` MSI  फाइलें  '' , from  उनके  default  संचिका  extension .
Windows Installer contains significant changes from  इसके  predecessor ,  सेटअप  API .
New features include  a  GUI framework and automatic generation of the uninstallation sequence .
Windows Installer is  positioned  as an alternative to stand-alone executable  installer  frameworks such  as   पुरानी  versions  of  InstallShield and NSIS .
microsoft  encourages third  पार्टियों  to  उपयोग  Windows  installer  as the basis for installation frameworks  ,  so that  वे  synchronize correctly  साथ  other installers and keep the internal database of  संस्थापित  products  सतत  .
Important features such as rollback and versioning depend on a consistent internal database for reliable operation .
Furthermore , Windows  installer   facilitates  the principle of least  विशेषाधिकार  by performing software  संस्थापना  by proxy for  unprivileged  users .
चार   लोको  is a line  of  alcoholic  पेय  , originally marketed as energy drinks ,  बेची  by Phusion Projects of Chicago , Illinois .
Phusion operates  as   पेय  Four Brewing Company  .
चार  Loko , the company  's  most popular beverage , debuted in  the  United States market in 2005 .
It is now sold in 48  राज्य  , and in Canada ,  the  Bahamas , Bolivia , Honduras  ,  and Europe .
the  name ``  चार  '' is derived from the original  उर्जा  drink 's four main  संघटक  :  दारू  , caffeine , taurine  ,  and guarana .
Four branded  उत्पाद  have been the  ऑब्जेक्ट   of  legal , ethical , and  स्वास्थ्य  concerns related to  the  company allegedly marketing them to the  underaged  and  the  purported danger  of  combining  दारू   और  caffeine .
After the beverage was banned in several  राज्य   ,  a product  reintroduction  in  दिसम्बर  2010 removed caffeine  ,   taurine  , and guarana as  संघटक  , and the malt  पेय   is  no longer marketed as an energy  पेय  .
The neck of a guitar showing  the  nut ( in the  पृष्ठभूमि   ,  coloured white ) and first four metal frets .
a  fret is a raised element on the neck of  a   stringed  instrument .
Frets  प्रायः  extend  आरपार  the full width of  the  neck .
On  सबसे  modern western  fretted  instruments , frets are metal  स्ट्रिप्स  inserted into  the  fingerboard .
on  some historical instruments  और  non-European  यंत्र  , frets are  बना   of  pieces of string tied around the  गर्दन  .
Frets  divide  the  गर्दन  into  फिक्स्ड  segments at intervals related to a musical framework .
On instruments such as guitars , each fret represents  एक   semitone  in the standard western  प्रणाली  where one octave  is  divided  into  twelve semitones  .
Fret is often used as a verb , meaning simply  ``  to press down the  स्ट्रिंग  behind a fret . ''
Fretting  प्रायः  refers to  the  frets and/or their system of placement .
There was consumption of alcohol both during and after prohibition .
The  18th  Amendment prohibited  the  production  ,   वितरण  and sale of  alcoholic  beverages in the United States and was widely supported by the  अमरीकी  public when it went into effect in  1920  .
The  temperance   गति  had  popularized  the belief that alcohol was  the  major cause of  सबसे  personal  और   सोशल  problems and prohibition was seen as the  समाधान   to  the nation 's poverty , crime ,  हिंसा  , and other ills .
Upon  अनुसमर्थन  of the amendment , the famous evangelist Billy Sunday said  कि   ``   the  slums  होगा   जल्द  be only a memory .
We will turn our  जेलों   into  factories  और  our jails  into  storehouses and corncribs . ''
(   compare   christianity  and alcohol . )
चूंकि  alcohol was to be banned and since  it  was  देखी  as  the  cause of most  ,   if  not  सब  ,  अपराधों  , some communities sold their jails .
The nation  थी  highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist in the United States  कॉंग्रेस   confidently  asserted that `` There is as much chance of repealing the  eighteenth  Amendment as there is for a hummingbird  to  fly to the planet Mars with  the   वॉशिंगटन  Monument tied to its tail.”
The metre (  मीटर   in  American English )  ,  ( SI unit symbol : m ; SI  आयाम  symbol : L ) ,  is  the fundamental unit of length in the International System of  इकाई  (  si  ) .
Originally  intended  to be one  ten-millionth  of the distance from the Earth 's equator  to  the North Pole  (  at sea level ) , its  परिभाषा  has  महरूम  periodically  परिष्कृत  to reflect growing knowledge  of  metrology .
चूंकि   1983  , it has  महरूम  defined as `` the length of the path  travelled  by light in vacuum  दौरान  a time  अंतराल  of  1/299,792,458  of a second . ''
geologists  exploring Jurassic sedimentary  रॉक्स  in Makhtesh  gadol  ,  negev   मरुस्थल   ,  Israel
Geologists explaining the  महत्व  of  volcanic  ash layers  to  students on field in Iceland
a  geologist is a scientist  जो  studies the solid and  द्रव   पदार्थ  that constitutes  the  Earth as well as the processes and history that has shaped it  .
Geologists usually engage in  अध्ययन   भूविज्ञान  .
Geologists , studying more of an  लागू  science than  a  theoretical one ,  जरूर  approach Geology using physics , chemistry  और  biology as well as  अन्य  sciences .
Geologists  ,   compared  to scientists engaged in other fields , are generally more exposed to the outdoors than staying in laboratories ; although some geologists  prefer  to perform  सबसे  of their studies in the lab .
Geologists are engaged in  खोजी  for mining companies in search of metals  ,   oils  , and other  धरती   संसाधन  .
They are also  in  the forefront of  प्राकृतिक  hazards and  आपदाओं  warning and  शमन  , studying earthquakes ,  volcanic  activity ,  tsunamis  , weather storms , and the  जैसे  ;  उनके  studies are used to warn the general  पब्लिक  of the occurrence of these events  .
Currently ,  geologists  are also engaged in the discussion of climate change  ,  as they study the  इतिहास  and evidence for this  धरती  process .
Below is  a  comprehensive drill and tap size chart for all  drills   ,   इम्पीरियल  and metric  ,  and taps up to 36.5 mm .
आधुनिक  vacuum tubes , mostly  miniature  style
in  electronics ,  a   वैक्यूम  tube , electron tube  (   in   उत्तर  America  )  , thermionic valve , tube ,  or  valve is  a  device controlling  इलेक्ट्रिक  current through a vacuum in a sealed  संग्राहक  .
The container is often  पतला  transparent glass in a roughly  बेलनाकार  shape .
The simplest vacuum  ट्यूब   ,  the  डायोड  , is  essentially  an incandescent light bulb with an added  एलेक्ट्रोड   अंदर   .
जब   the  bulb  's  filament is heated white-hot , electrons  हैं  `` boiled  ''  off its surface and into the vacuum inside  the  bulb  .
If the electrode --  पुकारा  a `` plate '' or `` anode  ''   --  is made more positive than the hot  फिलामेंट  ,  a  direct current flows through the vacuum to the electrode  (  a demonstration of  the  Edison effect ) .
As  the   वर्तमान  only flows in one  दिशा  , it makes it  संभावित   to  convert an alternating current applied to  the  filament to direct  वर्तमान  .
The introduction of a third electrode ,  a  grid between the  फिलामेंट  and the plate , yields another function  .
A  वोल्टेज  applied to the  ग्रिड  controls  the  current flowing from the filament to the  थाली  .
यूँ  , it  allows  the device to be used as an electronic  प्रवर्धक  .
Vacuum tubes are  यूँ  used  लिये  rectification , amplification , switching , or similar processing or creation  of  electrical signals  .
the   विशाल  majority of modern day tubes consist of a sealed container  साथ   a  vacuum inside  ,   और  essentially rely  on  thermionic emission  of   electrons  from a hot  फिलामेंट  or a  कैथोड  heated by the filament .
Some exceptions to this are dealt with  in  the section about gas-filled tubes below .
वैक्यूम   tubes  were critical to the  विकास   of  electronic technology ,  जिससे  drove the expansion and commercialization of radio broadcasting , television , radar , sound  reinforcement   ,  sound recording and  जनन  , large telephone networks , analog and digital computers , and  औद्योगिक   प्रक्रम  control .
Although  कुछ   अनुप्रयोग   था  counterparts  using   पहले  technologies  ऐसे  as the spark gap transmitter or mechanical computers  ,  it  थी   the  invention  of  the  वैक्यूम  tube with three  electrodes  ( called a triode ) and its  काबिलियत  of electronic  प्रवर्धन   कि  made these technologies widespread and practical  .
In most applications , solid-state devices  ऐसे  as transistors and  अन्य  semiconductor devices have  replaced  tubes .
Solid-state devices last longer  और  are smaller , more  कुशल  , more reliable ,  और  cheaper than tubes  .
tubes  can be fragile , sometimes generate significant unwanted heat , and can take many  seconds—many  minutes in critical  applications—after  powering  on  to  गरम   to   a  temperature where they perform within operational  सहिष्णुता   .
However , tubes still  ढूँढें  uses where solid-state  डिवाइस  have  नहीं  been  विकसित  , are impractical , or  जहाँ  a  ट्यूब  has superior  प्रदर्शन   ,  as with  कुछ  devices in professional audio and high-power radio transmitters .
tubes  are still produced for such applications .
tubes   हैं  less likely  than  semiconductor  डिवाइस  to be destroyed by  the   इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  pulse  उत्पादित   by  nuclear explosions and  geomagnetic  storms  उत्पादित  by giant  सौर  flares .
skittles  is a brand of  fruit-flavoured  sweets , currently produced and marketed by the  wm  .  wrigley   jr.   कम्पनी  , a  प्रभाग  of Mars , Inc .
They have hard sugar shells which carry the letter S .
The inside  is  mainly  शुगर  , corn syrup , and hydrogenated  ताड़  kernel oil  साथ  with fruit juice , citric acid , and  प्राकृतिक  and  कृत्रिम  flavours .
the  confectionery has been sold in  a  variety  of  flavour collections , such  as   तीव्र  and Wild Berry .
Sir Winston  लियोनार्ड  Spencer-Churchill ,  (  30 November 1874 –  24  January 1965 )  थी  a British politician who was the Prime Minister of  the  United  किंगडम  from  1940  to 1945 and  again   इससे  1951 to 1955 .
Widely regarded as one of the greatest wartime leaders  of  the 20th century ,  चर्चिल  was also an officer  in  the British Army , a historian ,  a  writer , and an artist .
He is the only British Prime Minister  in  history  to  have received the Nobel  पुरस्कार  in Literature , and was also the first  व्यक्ति  to  be  made an Honorary Citizen  of  the United States  .
चर्चिल  was born into  an  aristocratic family as  the  grandson of the 7th Duke of  marlborough  .
His  पिता  ,  रब  Randolph Churchill ,  थी  a charismatic  राजनेता   जो   परोसा  as  चांसलर  of  the  Exchequer ; his mother ,  jennie  Jerome  ,  was an American  socialite  .
As a  यंग  army  अधिकारी  ,  he  saw action in British India , The Sudan , and the Second Boer  युद्ध   .
He gained fame as  a  war correspondent and wrote  किताबे  about his campaigns  .
At the  forefront  of politics for fifty years ,  he  held many political and cabinet positions  .
Before  the  First World  युद्ध  , he served as President of the Board of Trade ,  घर  Secretary , and  पहला  Lord of the Admiralty as part of the Asquith Liberal government .
During the war , he continued as  पहला  Lord of the Admiralty until the disastrous Gallipoli Campaign caused his  प्रस्थान   इससे  government .
He  तब  briefly resumed active  फौज  service on the Western Front as commander of  the   6th  Battalion of the Royal  स्कॉट्स  Fusiliers .
He  लौटे   to  government as Minister of Munitions , Secretary of State for War , and Secretary of State for Air .
After the War , Churchill served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Conservative ( Baldwin ) government of 1924–29 , controversially  returning  the  पाउंड  sterling  in  1925 to the gold standard at  इसके  pre-war  पैरिटी   ,  a move widely seen as creating  deflationary  pressure on  the  UK economy .
Also controversial was  उसके   विपक्ष  to increased home rule  लिये  India and his resistance to the 1936 abdication of Edward VIII .
Out of office and politically `` in the  wilderness  '' during the 1930s , Churchill took the  सीसे   in  warning  परिचय  Nazi Germany and  in   campaigning   लिये  rearmament .
On the outbreak  of   the  Second World War  ,   he  was again appointed First  रब  of the Admiralty  .
Following  the   इस्तीफा  of Neville Chamberlain  on  10 May 1940 ,  चर्चिल  became Prime Minister  .
उसके  steadfast refusal to consider  शिकस्त  , surrender  ,  or a compromise  सलाम  helped  inspire  British resistance ,  विशेषकर   दौरान  the  मुश्किल  early days of the War  जब  Britain stood  अलोन   among  European countries in its active opposition to  एडोल्फ   हिटलर  .
Churchill was  विशेषकर  noted  लिये  his speeches and  रेडियो  broadcasts , which helped inspire the British people .
he  led Britain as Prime Minister until victory  over  Nazi Germany had been secured  .
After the Conservative  पार्टी  lost the 1945 election , he became Leader of the Opposition to  the  Labour ( Attlee ) government  .
बाद  winning  the  1951  चुनाव  , he again became Prime Minister  ,  before  retiring   in  1955 .
Upon his death ,  एलिज़ाबेथ  II granted him the honour of  a  state  अंत्येष्टि  ,  जिससे  saw one  of   the   largest  assemblies of  संसार  statesmen in history .
Named the Greatest  briton  of all time in  a  2002 poll , Churchill is widely regarded  as  being among the most influential  लोगों  in British history .
Ruby  gloom   is   an  animated  टेलीविज़न  show based  on   an   वस्त्र  franchise .
The show is produced  by  Nelvana and began airing  on   अक्तूबर  13 , 2006 in Canada  on  the  संजाल  YTV .
It stars the voices of Sarah Gadon , Emily Hampshire , and Peter Keleghan  .
The Ford  फ़ोकस   is   a  compact car  (  C-segment in Europe  )  manufactured  by  the Ford Motor Company since 1998 .
Ford  began  sales of the Focus to Europe in July 1998 and  in  North America during 1999 for the 2000 model year .
In Europe  ,  South America , North  अमेरिका  and South Africa  ,   the  Focus  replaced  the various versions of the Ford Escort  बेची  in  those  markets .
in   एशिया   और  Australasia ,  it   replaced  the Ford Laser .
As of  the  first half of 2012 , the Focus surpassed the Toyota  कोरोला  to  become  the world 's best  selling   ऑटोमोबाइल  nameplate .
the  Focus has been  माना  one  of  the  50   महानतम  cars of  the  past fifty years by British magazine CAR .
An agar plate --  an   उदाहरण  of a bacterial growth  मीडियम  .
Specifically ,  it  is a streak plate ;  the  orange lines and dots are formed by bacterial colonies .
A growth medium or  संस्कृति  medium is a liquid or  gel  designed  to  support the growth of microorganisms  or  cells  ,  or  छोटी  plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens .
वहीँ  are different types of media for growing  अलग  types of cells .
There are two major  प्रकार  of growth  मीडिया  : those  प्रयुक्त  for cell culture , which use specific cell types derived from plants or animals  ,   और  microbiological  संस्कृति   ,   जिससे  are  प्रयुक्त  for growing  microorganisms  , such as bacteria or  खमीर   .
The most common growth media for  microorganisms  are nutrient broths and agar  प्लेटों  ; specialized media are sometimes required for microorganism and cell culture growth .
कुछ  organisms , termed fastidious organisms ,  आवश्यकता  specialized environments due to  जटिल  nutritional requirements .
Viruses , for example , are obligate intracellular parasites and require a growth medium containing living cells .
A talent  एजेंट  , or booking agent , is  a  person who finds jobs for  अभिनेताओं  , authors  ,  film directors , musicians , models , producers , professional athletes , writers and other people in  विभिन्न  entertainment businesses  .
An agent also  defends   ,  supports and promotes the  ब्याज  of his/her clients .
Agents can not produce their own shows  due  to conflict of interest .
A talent agent  जरूर  be  परिचित   साथ  their clients .
An agent has  to   जान  what kind  of  work the client  can  and  can  not do in  अनुक्रम  to match  उन्हें  with various  कार्य   .
Having an agent is  नहीं  required , but does help the artist in getting jobs  .
In  अनेक   मामले  casting directors , or other businesses  ,  go to talent agencies  to   ढूँढें  artists they  हैं  looking for .
The agent is paid a  प्रतिशत  of  the   स्टार  's earnings ( typically  10  % ) .
Agents sometimes  होगा  be referred  to  as `` 10 percenters . ''
There are different regulations that govern different  प्रकार  of agents  कि  are  स्थापित  by artist 's unions  और   the   विधिक  jurisdiction in which  the  agent operates .
There  हैं  also professional organizations that license talent  एजेंसियों  .
Since the decline in viewership  in  theaters , from  the  1950s to 1960s , this caused  a  monumental shift in how studios  होता  produce films and  यूँ  reducing the cost of exclusive  और  expensive actors .
Actors and actresses were working  लिये   the  studios  लकिन  were not owned by  एक  major  स्टुडियो  entity and  so  were able  to  work on within their time and  साथ  other studios .
Because  of  this  ,  agents were  अभी  seen as a necessity  बजाय  of an option .
एजेंटों  now became  तीसरा  parties that negotiated between studios and clients  ,  this making their  सेवाएं   imperative  between each  पार्टी  .
चूंकि  talent agencies are working  साथ  lucrative  अनुबंध  , all talent agencies must be licensed under special sections of the California Labor Code , which calls  an  agent a `` person or corporation who engages in the occupation of  procuring  ,  offering  ,  होनहार  , or attempting to procure employment for artist or artists . ''
Mars has two known moons , Phobos  और  Deimos , which are thought to be captured asteroids  .
दोनो   satellites  were discovered in 1877 by Asaph  हॉल  and are named after the  वर्ण   phobos  ( panic/fear )  और  Deimos ( terror/dread )  जो  , in  यूनानी  mythology , accompanied  उनके   पिता  Ares ,  परमेश्वर  of war , into battle .
Ares  थी  known as Mars to the Romans .
it  is possible that Mars may have moons  छोटी   than  50  -  100 meters  और  a dust  रिंग  between  phobos  and Deimos  may  be present but none have  महरूम  discovered .
In law enforcement parlance , the term murder  किताब  refers to the case file  of  a murder investigation .
Typically ,  हत्या  books include crime scene photographs and  sketches  ,  पोस्टमार्टम  and forensic reports , transcripts  of  investigators ' notes  और  witness interviews .
The murder book encapsulates the  पूरा  paper trail  of   a  murder investigation , from the time  the   हत्या  is first reported through  the  arrest of a suspect .
विधि  enforcement agencies  typically  guard  हत्या  books carefully  ,  and it is unusual for civilians to  be   दिए  unfettered access to these kinds of records , especially  लिये  unsolved cases  .
A melon baller
Melon  गेंदें  are balls of  melon  made using a melon baller  कि  varies  इससे  around 1 centimeter to 3  सेंटीमीटर   (  about 3/8 inch to 1 inch ) .
They are generally used in  फल  salad .
A KSA , or Knowledge ,  कौशल  ,  और  Abilities , is a series  of  narrative statements that are required when applying to  संयुक्त   राज्य  Federal government job openings .
KSAs are  प्रयुक्त  to  determine  ,  साथ  with  resumes  , who the best  आवेदकों  are  जब  several candidates  qualify  for a  जॉब  .
The knowledge , skills and abilities ( KSAs ) necessary for  the  successful performance of a position are contained on each  जॉब  vacancy announcement  .
In 2009 the Office of  निजी   प्रबन्धन  asked federal agencies  to   रोकें  requiring job applicants to fill  आउट  the questionnaires , to  be   phased  out  भीतर  a year .
ksas  are brief  और  focused essays about one 's career and educational  पृष्ठभूमि  that presumably qualify one to perform  the  duties of the position  होने  applied for .
A knowledge ,  कौशल  , and abilities ( KSA ) is a concise essay  परिचय  one  's  talent and expertise  और   सम्बन्धित  experiences ( work , education  ,  volunteer ) and accomplishments .
A series of KSA statements are usually required when applying for most federal government and  कुछ  state and  नगर  government jobs .
ksas  are used as a yardstick to assess the capabilities  of  a prospective applicant in terms of likely ability  to   perform  the duties of the job .
Most government hiring officials look for a short , crisp and  साफ  KSA  कि  emphasizes results  or  accomplishments  प्राप्त  in previous  कार्य  .
KSA statements are also known as  मूल्यांकन  Factors .
Other agencies sometimes call them `` Rating Factors '' , `` Quality Ranking  कारकों  '' , `` Knowledge  ,  Abilities ,  कौशल  and Other Characteristics  ''  , or `` Job Elements '' .
The name  can  be just  a  name but often it influences content  और  length of the essay .
Every agency has its own regulations  लकिन  most of the time the each KSA factor should be 1/2 to  11⁄2  pages long .
The below definitions are defined by  the  U.S. Office of Personnel Management  :
Knowledge , Skills , and Abilities ( KSAs ) -  the   गुण  required to  perform   a  job and are generally demonstrated through qualifying service , education , or training .
ज्ञान  - Is a body of information applied directly to the  प्रदर्शन  of  a  function .
Skill - Is an observable competence to perform a learned psychomotor act .
Ability -  is  competence to perform  an  observable behavior or  a   बर्ताव  that results in an observable product  .
The scoring of KSA essays is based on a scale of from one to 100 .
Job applicants must  स्कोर  above 70 to be considered  लिये   the  position .
High scores are derived through answering the KSA question as specifically as possible ,  providing  examples from previous employment or training that clearly demonstrate you meet  the  qualifications  .
When applying to  संघीय   सरकारी  positions ,  a  Federal  पुनरारंभ  is usually required in addition to  ksa  statements  .
सही
Whole grains are cereal grains that  contain  cereal germ , endosperm , and bran  ,  in contrast  to   परिष्कृत  grains , which retain  तभी  the endosperm .
Common whole grains include:
Wheat
Oat
जौ   -  Hulled  और  Dehulled  (   नहीं  Pearl )
Maize
Brown rice
Farro
spelt
Emmer
Einkorn
Kamut
Rye
Millet
Quinoa
Amaranth
Triticale
Teff
Sprouted Grains
Buckwheat
Common whole grain products include:
पूरे  wheat flour
Whole wheat Bread
पूरे  wheat  पास्ता
लिपटे   जई  or  oat  groats
Triticale flour
Popcorn
Teff flour
आम  refined non-whole grain products include:
प्रेम  Always is the  डेब्यू  album  of  American  r  &  b   duo   k-ci  & JoJo  ,  released on June  17  , 1997 , by MCA Records .
it  was recorded  at   विभिन्न  studios in New  यॉर्क  and the Los Angeles area in 1996 and 1997 .
It was produced by JoJo and  अनेक  others  ,  including DeVante Swing  ,  James Mtume , and Jeff  redd  .
The  duo   यहूद  originally a part  of  Jodeci  पहले  this album  .
The album peaked at sixth on  the  US Billboard 200  और  also appeared on international  चार्ट   .
The single ``  सब  My Life `` charted number one in multiple  देशों  , and  सब  four  of  the  एल्बम  's singles  peaked  above the top  25  in  the  US Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Songs and the New Zealand Top 40  singles  .
Love Always was received favorably by critics , who praised  the   भाइयो  ' singing ability and the production  .
The album  रै  been certified three times platinum by the  रिकॉर्डिंग  Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) and  सुनहरा   by  Music Canada  और  IFPI Sweden .
As of June 1999 it had sold 2.9 million copies in the United States .
A variable-rate  बंधक  , adjustable-rate mortgage ( ARM  )  ,  or  tracker mortgage is  a  mortgage loan with the interest  रेट  on the note periodically  समायोजित  based on an index  जिससे  reflects the cost  to  the lender of borrowing on the credit markets .
the   ऋण  may be offered at the lender 's standard variable rate/ base rate .
वहीँ  may  be  a direct and legally-defined link  to  the underlying  अनुक्रमणिका  , but  जहाँ  the lender offers  no   विशिष्ट  link to the underlying market or index the  रेट  can be changed at  the  lender 's discretion .
The term `` variable-rate mortgage '' is most common outside the United States , whilst in the United States  ,  `` adjustable-rate mortgage '' is  सबसे  common , and implies  a  mortgage regulated by  the  Federal government , with caps on charges .
In many countries , adjustable rate mortgages are the norm  ,  and in such places  ,  may simply  be  referred to  as  mortgages .
Among the most common indices  हैं  the rates on 1-year constant-maturity  राजकोष   (  CMT ) securities , the Cost of  निधि  Index  (  COFI ) ,  और  the  लंदन  Interbank  offered  Rate ( LIBOR ) .
a  few lenders use their own cost  of  funds  as   an  index , rather than using other indices .
This is done  to  ensure  a  steady margin for the  lender  , whose  अपना  cost  of   funding  will  प्रायः   be  related to  the  index  .
Consequently , payments  बना  by the borrower may change over time with the changing  ब्याज   रेट  ( alternatively , the term of the loan may change ) .
This is distinct  इससे  the graduated payment mortgage , which offers changing payment  amounts   लकिन  a fixed  ब्याज  rate .
Other forms of mortgage loan include the  ब्याज  only mortgage , the fixed rate mortgage  ,  the negative  amortization  mortgage , and  the  balloon payment mortgage  .
Adjustable rates transfer  भाग  of the interest rate  रिस्क  from the  lender  to the borrower .
They can be used where unpredictable interest rates make fixed  रेट  loans difficult to obtain .
The borrower benefits  if  the interest rate falls but loses if  the  interest  रेट  increases .
The borrower benefits from reduced margins to the underlying cost of borrowing compared to fixed or capped  रेट  mortgages .
The assassination of Robert Francis `` Bobby '' Kennedy  ,  a United States Senator and brother of assassinated  अध्यक्ष  John Fitzgerald `` Jack ''  कैनेडी  , took place  shortly  after midnight on June 5 , 1968 , in  लॉस  Angeles  ,   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , during the campaign season for  the   संयुक्त  States Presidential election  ,   1968  .
After winning the California and South Dakota primary elections for  the  Democratic nomination for President of the United  राज्य  , Kennedy was  शॉट  as he walked  through  the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel and  died  in the Good Samaritan Hospital twenty-six hours  बाद   .
Sirhan Sirhan  ,  a 24-year-old Palestinian / Jordanian immigrant , was convicted of Kennedy 's murder and  is  serving a  जीवन   वाक्य  for  the  crime .
Sirhan 's lawyers have released statements claiming  प्रमाण  that he was  framed  .
The shooting was recorded on audio  टेप  by a freelance  समाचारपत्र  reporter , and  the  aftermath  थी  captured on film .
Kennedy  's  body lay in repose at St.  पैट्रिक  's Cathedral in New York for two days before  a  funeral mass was  आयोजित   on  June 8 .
उसके  body was interred  निकट   उसके  brother John at Arlington National Cemetery .
उसके  death prompted the protection of presidential candidates by the  संयुक्त  States Secret  सेवा  .
Hubert  humphrey  went on to win the Democratic nomination for the presidency ,  लकिन  ultimately narrowly lost  the  election to  रिचर्ड  Nixon .
As with his brother Jack 's death , Bobby 's  हत्या  and the circumstances surrounding  it  have spawned  a   किस्में   of  conspiracy theories .
As of 2013 Kennedy remains one  of  only two sitting United  राज्य   सीनेटरों  to  be   assassinated  ( the other being Huey Long  )  .
The Modern Age of Comic Books is an informal name for the period in the history of mainstream American comic books generally considered to last  इससे  the mid-1980s until present day .
In this period , comic book characters  generally  became  गहरा  and more psychologically complex ,  creators  became better-known and active  in  changing the industry , independent comics flourished , and larger publishing houses became more commercialized .
an   वैकल्पिक   नाम  for this period is the Dark  आयु  of Comic Books  ,  due to  the   लोकप्रियता  and artistic influence of grim titles ,  ऐसे  as and Watchmen .
When Harry Met Sally  ...   is  a 1989 American romantic comedy film written by Nora  ephron   और  directed by  रोब  Reiner .
It stars Billy Crystal as Harry and  मेग  Ryan as Sally .
The story follows the title characters  इससे   the  time  वे  meet just before sharing a cross-country drive ,  through  twelve  सालो  or so of  मौका  encounters in New York  नगर  .
The  फिल्मी   उठाता  the question `` Can men and  महिलाओं  ever just be friends ?  ''  and advances many ideas about relationships that  became  household concepts , such  as  those of the `` '' girlfriend  और  the ``  transitional   व्यक्ति  '' .
The origins of the film came from Reiner  's  return to single life after a divorce .
An  इंटरव्यू  Ephron conducted with Reiner provided  the   आधार  for Harry .
Sally was based on Ephron and some of  उसके  friends .
Crystal came on board and made his own contributions to the screenplay , making Harry funnier .
Ephron supplied  the  structure of the film with much of the dialogue  आधारित  on  the  real-life friendship between Reiner  और  Crystal .
The soundtrack  consists  of standards  performed  by Harry Connick , Jr. , with a big  बैंड  and orchestra  arranged  by Marc Shaiman .
connick   जीती   उसके  first Grammy  पुरस्कार  for Best Jazz Male Vocal Performance  .
कोलंबिया  Pictures released the  फिल्मी   using  the `` platform  ''  technique , which involved opening it in  a  few select cities , letting positive word  of  mouth generate interest  ,  and then gradually expanding distribution over  subsequent  weeks  .
When Harry Met Sally ... grossed a total of US $  92  .8 million in North  अमेरिका  .
Ephron received a British Academy Film Award , an Oscar nomination  ,  and  a  Writers Guild of  अमेरिका  Award nomination for her screenplay  .
The film is ranked 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years ...  100  Laughs list of the top  कॉमेडी  films in American cinema and number 60 on  ब्रावो  's  ``  100 Funniest  फिल्मों  '' .
In early  2004   ,  the film  थी  adapted for the stage in a production starring Luke Perry and Alyson  हनिंगन  .
200px
Hamburger Helper is a line of packaged  खाना   उत्पाद  primarily consisting of boxed pasta bundled with a packet  or  packets of  powdered  sauce or seasonings  .
The contents of each  बक्सा  are combined with browned  मैदान  beef , water and milk to create a complete dish .
The product line also features products  साथ  other starches such as  राइस  or potatoes instead  of   पास्ता   .
It is made by General Mills  .
Although the classic boxed Hamburger Helper products only supply the starch item and the sauce packets ,  कुछ  varieties of the product include ground beef .
These include a frozen food line , which features  कुछ  of the  ब्रांड  's classic varieties in a complete  भोजन  kit form , with frozen  मैदान  beef and  frozen  sauce packaged separately from the noodles in  the  same bag .
There is  भी  an ``  तत्काल  '' version of  हैमबर्गर  Helper  containing  dehydrated  मांस  ,  नूडल्स  and seasonings  in  a small pouch , requiring only water to be added .
The Hamburger Helper  शुभंकर  is the `` Helping Hand '' , an anthropomorphic animated , four fingered left-hand glove , which appears in the product 's television commercials  और   on  the packages .
Ceres as seen with the Hubble Space Telescope .
it  is the only dwarf  ग्रह  in the asteroid belt .
Pluto in approximate  सच्चा  colour based  on  Hubble Space Telescope albedo data
हउमेया  with its moons ,  hiʻiaka  and  namaka   (  artist  's  conception )
Makemake ( artist  's  conception )
Eris and its  चंद्रमा  Dysnomia as seen with the Hubble Space  दूरदर्शी
A dwarf planet is a planetary-mass object  कि  is neither a planet nor a satellite .
More explicitly , the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Astronomical Union  (  IAU ) defines a dwarf planet as a celestial body in direct  कक्षा  of the Sun  कि   is  massive enough for its shape  to  be controlled by gravitation , but that  नापसंद  a planet has not cleared its orbital region  of  other objects .
the  term dwarf planet was adopted in 2006 as part of  a  three-way categorization of bodies  orbiting   the  Sun , brought about by an increase in discoveries of trans-Neptunian objects that  rivaled  Pluto in size ,  और  finally precipitated by the discovery of an even  अधिक   विशाल  object , Eris .
This  वर्गीकरण  states that bodies large  पर्याप्त  to have cleared  the  neighbourhood of their orbit are defined  as  planets , while those  कि  are not massive enough to be  rounded  by their own gravity  हैं  defined as small Solar  प्रणाली  bodies .
बौना  planets  आइये   in  between .
The exclusion  of  dwarf planets from the roster of planets  by  the IAU  रै  been both praised  और  criticized  ;  it was  कहा  to be  the  `` right decision  ''   by  Mike Brown , who discovered and other new dwarf planets , but has been rejected by  एलन  Stern , who had coined the term  बौना  planet in 1990  .
the  IAU currently recognizes  पाँच  dwarf planets in the Solar System : , Pluto , , , and .
however  ,  तभी  two of  ये   लाशें  ,  ceres  and Pluto  ,  have  महरूम  observed in enough detail  to  demonstrate  कि  they  अनुरूप   the  definition .
Eris has  महरूम  accepted  as  a dwarf planet because it is more massive than Pluto .
The IAU subsequently decided that unnamed  trans-neptunian  objects with an absolute  परिमाण  brighter  than  +1 ( and hence a diameter of  ≥838  km  assuming  a geometric albedo of ≤1  )  are to be named under the assumption that  वे  are dwarf planets .
The only two such objects known at the  समय  , Makemake and Haumea , went through  इस  naming  कार्यविधि   और  were  घोषित  to  be  dwarf planets .
It is suspected  कि  another hundred or so known  वस्तुएँ  in the Solar System are dwarf planets .
Estimates are that  up  to 200 dwarf planets may  be   मिला   जब   the  entire region known as the Kuiper belt is  छान  , and that the  क्रमांक  may exceed 10,000 when  वस्तुएँ  scattered outside the Kuiper belt are considered  .
Individual astronomers recognize several of these , and in August  2011   माइक  Brown published a list of 390 candidate objects , ranging from `` nearly certain  ''  to `` possible '' dwarf planets .  '
Brown identifies nine known objects – the  पाँच  accepted by the IAU plus ,  ,   ,  and – as ``  वस्तुतः   निश्चित  '' , with  another  two dozen highly likely  ,  and there  हैं  probably a  सौ   or   so  such objects in total .
the  classification of bodies  in  other planetary systems with the  विशेषताएँ  of dwarf planets has not been addressed .
A  डेबिट  card ( also known as a bank  कार्ड  or  जाँच  card ) is a plastic payment  कार्ड  that provides the cardholder  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  access  to  his or her bank account  (   s  ) at a financial institution .
Some  ताश  have a stored value with which a payment is made  ,  while most  रिले  a message to the  cardholder   's  bank to withdraw funds from  a  payee 's designated bank account .
The card , where accepted , can be used instead  of  cash when making purchases .
In some cases  ,  the primary account number is assigned exclusively  लिये  use on  the  Internet and  वहीँ  is  no  physical  कार्ड  .
In many countries , the use  of  debit cards  रै  become  so  widespread that their volume has  overtaken  or  entirely  replaced  cheques  and , in some instances ,  नकदी  transactions .
the  development  of   डेबिट  cards , unlike credit cards and  चार्ज  cards ,  रै  generally been country specific resulting in a number of different systems around the world , which were often incompatible .
Since the mid-2000s  ,  a number of initiatives have allowed debit cards  जारी  in  एक  country to be used  in  other countries and allowed their use  लिये  internet  और  phone purchases .
Unlike credit and charge cards , payments using a debit card  हैं  immediately transferred from the cardholder 's designated  बैंको  account , instead of them paying the money back at a later  तिथि  .
Debit  ताश  usually also allow for instant withdrawal of cash , acting  as   the  ATM card for withdrawing cash  .
Merchants may also offer cashback facilities to customers , where a customer can withdraw cash along with their purchase .
francois   henri  ``  जोकर  ''  lalanne  ( September 26 ,  1914   -  January  23  ,  2011  ) was an American fitness  ,   कसरत  , and nutritional expert and motivational  स्पीकर  who is sometimes called ``  the  godfather of  फ़िटनेस  '' and  the   ``  first fitness superhero . ''
He described himself as being a  ``  sugarholic '' and a  ``   जंक   खाना  junkie '' until he was  15  .
He also  था  behavioral problems , but `` turned his  जीवन  around ''  बाद  listening to  a  public lecture by Paul  ब्रैग  , a well-known nutrition speaker .
During his  करियर   ,  he came to believe that  the   देश  's overall health depended on the health of  इसके   जनसांख्यिकी   ,  writing that  ``  physical  संस्कृति  and  पोषण  — is  the  salvation of America . ''
Decades before health and fitness began being promoted by  हस्तियाँ  like Jane Fonda and Richard  सीमन्स  , LaLanne was already widely recognized for publicly preaching the health  लाभ  of regular exercise and a  शुभ  diet .
He published numerous books  on  fitness  और  hosted a fitness television show between  1953  and 1985 .
As early  as   1936  , at age 21  ,  he opened one of the nation 's first fitness gyms in Oakland , California , which became a prototype  लिये  dozens of similar gyms  using  his name .
One of  उसके  1950s television exercise  कार्यक्रम  was aimed toward women , whom he also  प्रोत्साहित   to  join his health clubs  .
he  invented a number of exercise machines , including  leg-extension   और  pulley devices .
besides  producing his own series  of  videos ,  he  coached  the  elderly and disabled not  to  forgo exercise , believing it would enable them to enhance their strength .
LaLanne also gained recognition for  उसके  success  as  a bodybuilder , as well as  लिये  his prodigious feats of strength .
अर्नाल्ड  Schwarzenegger  एकबार  stated  ,  `` That Jack LaLanne 's an  एनिमल  ! , '' after LaLanne , at 54 , beat a 21-year-old Schwarzenegger ``  badly  '' in an informal contest .
On  the  occasion of LaLanne  's  death  ,  Schwarzenegger credited LaLanne for being  ``  an apostle for  फ़िटनेस  '' by inspiring `` billions  सब   over  the world to live healthier lives , '' and ,  as  governor of California  ,   था  earlier placed him on  उसके  Governor 's Council  on  Physical Fitness .
Steve  रीव्स  credited LaLanne as his inspiration to build his muscular physique while  keeping  a slim waist .
he  was  inducted  to the California Hall of  कीर्ति  and has a star  on  the Hollywood Walk of  कीर्ति  .
Air forces of most of the  देशों  use system similar to Armies .
However , the RAF  और  the air forces of many Commonwealth countries , or those  formerly  under  a   अंग्रेजों   influence  ,  उपयोग  a different set of ranks loosely based on  नवल  equivalents ; Lieutenant , Commander , Captain and Commodore  हैं  prefixed for air force use with Flight , Wing  ,  Group and Air , respectively  (  the first three being the  इकाई   कि  they  प्रयुक्त  to command ) .
Penélope Cruz Sánchez ( ; born April  28  , 1974 )  is  a  स्पेनी  actress .
Signed by an agent at  आयु  15 , she made her  एक्टिंग  debut at 16  on   टेलीविज़न  and her feature  फिल्मी   डेब्यू  the following year in  jamón  , jamón ( 1992  )  ,  to  critical acclaim .
Her subsequent roles in the 1990s and 2000s included Open Your Eyes ( 1997 )  ,  The Hi-Lo Country (  1999  )  ,  The Girl of Your Dreams ( 2000 ) and Woman on  शीर्ष  ( 2000 ) .
Cruz achieved recognition for her lead  भूमिकाएँ  in the  2001  films  वैनिला  Sky and Blow  .
वो  has since built a successful career , appearing in films from  a  wide range of genres , including  the  comedy Waking Up  in  Reno ( 2002 ) , the thriller Gothika ( 2003 ) , the Christmas movie Noel (  2004  )  ,  and the action adventure  सहारा  ( 2005 ) .
She has received critical  acclaim  for  उसके  roles in Volver  (  2006  )  and Nine (  2009  ) receiving Golden Globe and Academy Award nominations for each .
She won the Academy Award for Best  supporting   अभिनेत्री  in 2008 for Vicky  क्रिस्टीना  Barcelona .
वो  was the first Spanish actress  in   इतिहास   to  receive an  अकादमी   पुरस्कार  and the first Spanish  अभिनेत्री  to receive a star at the Hollywood Walk of Fame  .
Cruz has modeled for companies such as Mango  ,  Ralph Lauren and L'Oréal .
Penélope and  उसके   younger   सिस्टर  Mónica Cruz have designed items for Mango .
She  रै  donated both  उसके   समय  and money to charities  .
Cruz has volunteered in Uganda and India  ,   जहाँ  she  खर्च  one week working  लिये  Mother Teresa ; she donated her salary from  '  to help fund  the  late nun 's mission .
A wax sculpture of  क्रूज़  will be placed  in  a premier spot  in  the Grevin Wax Museum in Paris  .
File Explorer  ,  previously  ज्ञात  as  खिड़कियाँ  Explorer  ,  is a  संचिका  manager application and  भी  a navigation tool that is included  साथ   रिलीज   of  the Microsoft  खिड़कियाँ   ऑपरेटिंग   प्रणाली  from Windows 95 onwards .
It provides a  आलेखीय   उपयोक्ता  interface for accessing the file systems .
it   is  also the  घटक   of  the operating system that presents many user interface items  on  the monitor  ऐसे   as  the  taskbar  and desktop .
Controlling the computer  is   संभावित  without Windows Explorer running  (  for example , the File  |  Run command  in   कार्य  Manager on NT-derived versions of Windows will function without it ,  as  will  कमांड  typed  in  a command prompt window ) .
Located in  the  C : \Windows directory  ,   it  is sometimes referred to as the Windows shell  ,  explorer.exe  ,  or simply  “explorer”  .
The Care Bears are characters created by  अमरीकी  Greetings  in  1981 for use on greeting cards .
The original artwork for the cards was painted  by  artist Elena Kucharik .
in  1983  ,  Kenner turned the Care Bears  into  plush teddy bears .
The Care Bears  appeared  in their own TV specials called The Care Bears  in   the  Land Without Feelings ( 1983 ) and  the  Care  bears  Battle  the  Freeze Machine ( 1984  )   .
They also  था   उनके  own television series  इससे   1985  to  1988   ,  in addition to three feature films  :  The  परवाह   bears   फिल्म  ( 1985 )  ,  Care Bears Movie II : A New Generation ( 1986 ) , and The  परवाह  Bears  एडवेंचर  in  वंडरलैंड  ( 1987 ) .
प्रत्येक   परवाह   भालू  comes in a different color and has a specialized  तमगा   on  its belly that represents its duty and personality .
This insignia  थी  known  as  their `` tummy symbol . ''
however  , the movie Care Bears :  oopsy  Does  it  ! renamed  उन्हें  `` belly badges  ''  .
Adding to the Care  भालू   परिवार   हैं  the `` Care Bear  cousins  ''  ,  which feature a  शेर  , rabbit , penguin , raccoon , and other such animals created in the  वही  style as  the  teddy bears .
In 2002 ,  the   bears  were reintroduced with new toys .
Made by Play-Along Toys  ,  the new toys offered features such as illuminated bellies upon touch ,  एरोबिक  bears ,  और   glow-in-the-dark   bears   .
As  भाग  of this comeback  ,  the Bears have appeared in two computer-animated movies : Care Bears :  यात्रा  to Joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) and The Care Bears '  बिग   काश  Movie ( 2005 ) .
In 2007 ,  the  franchise celebrated its 25th anniversary  ;   another   relaunch  took place ,  as  well as  the  release of Care Bears : Oopsy Does It ! .
In mid-2011 , AG announced a revival TV  एनिमेटेड   श्रेणी   titled  ``  परवाह   bears  : Welcome to Care-a-Lot `` .
The premiere of  the  series  utilizes  `` 30 years of caring  ''  .
it  premiered on The Hub on June 2  ,  2012 .
as  of 2013  ,  Care Bears merchandise  is  still being marketed .
During 2008 and 2009  ,  Canada 's Cookie  जार  Group and  फ़्रांस  's MoonScoop Group attempted to  acquire  the franchise from  agc  , with no apparent success  .
Interstate 70 ( I-70 ) is an Interstate Highway in the United States that runs from Interstate 15 near Cove Fort , Utah , to a Park and  सवारी  near  बाल्टीमोर  , Maryland .
It was the first  अंतरराज्यीय  Highway project in the United  राज्य  .
I-70  लगभग  traces the path of U.S.  रूट  40 ( and also the old National Road  )   ईस्ट  of  the   रॉकी  Mountains  .
West of  the   rockies  , the route of I-70  थी   निकला  from multiple sources .
I-70  is  the fifth longest Interstate  राजमार्ग  , after I-90  ,  I-80 , I-40 , and I-10  .
the  construction of I-70 in Colorado and Utah  is   माना  an engineering marvel  as  the route passes through the Eisenhower Tunnel  ,  Glenwood Canyon , and  the  San Rafael  swell  .
the  Eisenhower Tunnel is the highest  पाइंट  along the Interstate  राजमार्ग  system with an elevation of .
The sections of the interstate in Missouri  और  Kansas have  रखी   अर्जी  to be the first interstate  in  the United States  .
हालांकि   विवादित  , the Federal Highway Administration has claimed the  खण्ड  of I-70  through  Glenwood Canyon  ,  completed in 1992 , was  the   पिछला  piece of the Interstate Highway  प्रणाली  ,  as  originally planned , to open to traffic .
Photo of 1999 total eclipse
As seen  इससे  the Earth  ,   a  solar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes between  the  Sun and Earth , and the Moon fully  or  partially blocks ( ``  occults  `` )  the   सूर्य  .
This can happen only at new moon  ,  when the  सूर्य  and the Moon are in conjunction as seen  इससे  Earth in an alignment referred to as syzygy .
In a total eclipse  ,  the  डिस्क   of  the Sun is fully  obscured  by the Moon .
In  आंशिक   और  annular eclipses only part  of   the  Sun  is  obscured .
if  the  चंद्रमा  were in a perfectly circular orbit , a  छोटी   करीब  to  the  Earth , and in the same  कक्षीय  plane , there  होता  be total solar eclipses every single month  .
However , the Moon 's orbit is inclined ( tilted ) at  अधिक  than 5 degrees to Earth 's orbit  around  the Sun ( see ecliptic )  so   इसके  shadow at new moon usually misses Earth  .
Earth 's orbit is called the ecliptic  प्लेन  as  the  Moon  's  orbit must cross  इस  plane in order for an  ग्रहण  ( both  सौर  as well as lunar ) to occur .
In addition , the Moon 's actual orbit is  अंडाकार   ,  often taking  it   दूर  enough away from Earth that its apparent size  is  not large enough to block the Sun totally .
The orbital  planes   क्रॉस  each year  at  a  लकीर   of   नोड  resulting in  at  least two , and up to  पाँच  , solar eclipses occurring each year ; no more than two of which can be total eclipses .
However , total  सौर  eclipses  हैं  rare at any particular  स्थान  because totality exists only along a narrow path on Earth 's surface  traced  by the Moon  's  shadow or umbra .
An eclipse is a  प्राकृतिक   घटना  .
Nevertheless , in  कुछ  ancient and modern cultures , solar eclipses  have   महरूम  attributed to supernatural causes or regarded as bad omens .
A total solar  ग्रहण   can  be frightening to people who are unaware of its astronomical explanation , as  the  Sun seems to disappear during  the  day and the sky darkens  in  a matter of  मिनट्स  .
Because it  is   खतरनाक  to look directly  at  the Sun  ,  observers should  उपयोग  special eye protection or indirect viewing techniques when viewing a  आंशिक   ग्रहण  , or the partial phases of  a   कुल  eclipse .
It is  सुरक्षित   to   दृश्य  the total phase of  a   कुल  solar eclipse with the unaided eye and without  सुरक्षा  , however .
People referred to as eclipse chasers  or  umbraphiles will travel to remote locations to  observe  or witness predicted central solar eclipses .
A political party ( from , Genitive partis , `` part '' ,  ``  portion ''  )  is  a  political organization that typically seeks to influence  ,  or entirely control  ,  government policy ,  प्रायः  by nominating candidates with aligned political views  और  trying to  सीट   उन्हें   in  political office .
Parties participate in electoral campaigns and educational outreach  or  protest  क्रियाएँ  .
पार्टियों  often espouse  an  ideology or vision ,  expressed  in  a  party program  ,  bolstered by a written platform with  विशिष्ट  goals , forming a coalition  among  disparate interests  .
The mango is a fleshy stone fruit belonging to the  genus   mangifera  , consisting of numerous tropical fruiting trees in the flowering plant family Anacardiaceae .
The mango  is  native to South Asia , from where it has been distributed worldwide  to  become one of  the  most cultivated fruits  in  the tropics .
While other Mangifera species ( e.g .  घोड़ा  mango , M. foetida )  हैं  also  grown   on  a  अधिक  localized basis  ,  Mangifera indica  –  the 'common mango '  or  'Indian mango ' – is  the  only mango tree commonly cultivated in many tropical and subtropical regions .
It is the national fruit of India ,  पाकिस्तानी  and Philippines .
in  several cultures , its fruit  और   पत्ते   हैं   ritually  used as floral decorations  at  weddings , public celebrations and religious  ceremonies   .
Gill Arnette Byrd , < ref name > http : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/B/ByrdGi00.htm  (  born February 20 , 1961 in  सैन  Francisco , California ) is a former professional American football  खिलाड़ी  .
He was a two  समय  Pro Bowl cornerback in  1991  and  1992  for the San Diego Chargers  बाद  graduating from  सैन  Jose State University .
Byrd was inducted into the Chargers Hall of Fame in 1998 .
He was an All-City running back  और   रक्षात्मक  back  at  Lowell High School ( San Francisco )  ,  helping to lead  the  Cardinals to  the   नगर  championship in  उसके   वरिष्ठ  season of 1978 .
World map showing  the  Tropic  of   कर्कट
the  Tropic of  कर्कट  ,  भी  referred to as the Northern tropic ,  is  the circle of latitude on the Earth that marks  the  most northerly  स्थिति   at  which the  सूर्य  may  appear  directly  ओवरहेड  at its zenith  .
This  इवेंट  occurs once per year , at the time of the June solstice  ,  when the Northern Hemisphere is  tilted  toward the Sun to its maximum  extent   .
It currently (  साल  2013 )  झूठ  at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ north  of  the Equator .
Its Southern Hemisphere  बंटवारा  , marking the  सबसे  southerly position  at  which  the  Sun  may  appear  सीधे  overhead , is the Tropic of Capricorn .
These tropics are  दो  of  the  five major  उपाधि  measures or major circles of  अक्षांश   कि  mark maps of  the   धरती  , besides  the  Arctic and Antarctic Circles  और  the Equator  .
The positions of  ये  circles of latitude  (  other than  the  Equator ) are dictated by the tilt of the Earth 's  अक्ष  of  रोटेशन   सापेक्ष  to the plane of its orbit .
DVD-Video is a  उपभोक्ता  video format used to store digital video on DVD discs , and is  फिलहाल  the dominant  उपभोक्ता   वीडियो  format in  एशिया  ,  उत्तर  America , Europe , and Australia  .
Discs using  the  DVD-Video specification  आवश्यकता  a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g. , a DVD player , or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ) .
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video and audio  of  varying  स्वरुप  ( often  multi-channel  formats as described below  )  .
Typically , the data rate for DVD  फिल्मों  ranges from 3 Mbit/s  to  9.5 Mbit/s , and the bit rate is usually adaptive  .
It was first available for retail  around  1997 .
The  dvd-video  specification was created  by   dvd  Forum and  can   be  obtained from DVD  format/logo  Licensing  निगम  for a fee of $ 5,000 .
The specification  is   नहीं  publicly  उपलब्धियाँ  , because every subscriber must sign a non-disclosure  अनुबंध  .
Certain information in the DVD Book  is  proprietary and confidential .
in   कम्प्यूटिंग  and specifically Internet , a leech  is  one who benefits , usually deliberately  ,  from others ' information or effort but  करता  not  प्रस्ताव  anything in return ,  or  makes only token offerings in  an  attempt to  avoid  being called a leech .
in  economics  ,  this  प्रकार  of behavior is called  ``   फ़्री  riding '' and is associated with the free rider problem .
Depending on  कॉन्टेक्स्ट  ,  leeching   करता  not necessarily refer to illegal  उपयोग   of  computer  संसाधन  , but often instead to greedy use  according  to etiquette : to wit , using too much of what is freely given without contributing a  उचित  amount  वापस  to  the  community that provides it .
The name derives from the leech ,  an  animal that sucks blood and then tries to leave unnoticed  .
Other terms are used , such as ``  freeloader   ''  , but leech is the most common .
The full eagle logo , used in various  संस्करण  from 1970  to  1993 .
The United States Postal  सेवा  (  usps  ) ,  भी  known as  the  Post Office and U.S. Mail  ,  is  an  independent agency of the United States federal  सरकारी  responsible  लिये  providing postal service in the  संयुक्त  States  .
It is  एक   of  the few  सरकारी  agencies  explicitly  authorized by the United States Constitution .
The USPS traces its roots to 1775 during the Second Continental Congress , where Benjamin  फ्रैंकलिन  was appointed  the   पहला  postmaster general .
the   cabinet-level  Post  दफ्तर  Department was created in 1792  इससे  Franklin 's operation and transformed into its current form in 1971  अंतर्गत   the   डाक  Reorganization  अधिनियम   .
the  USPS employs over 574,000 workers and operates over  260,000  vehicles .
The USPS  is   the   ऑपरेटर  of the largest  गाडी  fleet in the world  .
The USPS is  legally  obligated to  serve  all Americans ,  regardless  of geography  ,  at uniform  दाम  and quality .
The USPS has exclusive access to  अक्षर  boxes marked ``  u.S.  Mail '' and personal letterboxes in the United States , but still competes against private package delivery services , such as  यूपीएस  and FedEx .
The  usps  has not  सीधे  received taxpayer-dollars since the early  1980s  with the  नाबालिग  exception of subsidies for costs  संबद्ध   साथ   the  disabled and overseas voters .
चूंकि  the 2006 all-time peak mail  आवाज़  ,  बाद  which  कॉंग्रेस  passed the  डाक  Accountability and Enhancement Act ``  ,   (  which  mandated  $ 5.5  अरब  per year to be paid into an account  to  pre-fund  retiree  health-care  ,  75  सालो  into the  भविष्य   ,  a requirement unique among  संगठन  and businesses in the U.S.  )   ,   आय  dropped sharply due  to   recession-influenced  declining mail volume , prompting the postal service to look to other  स्त्रोत  of  आय   जबकि   कटिंग  costs  to  reduce its  बजट  deficit .
Washington , D.C. has been the capital of the United States since 1800 .
Eight  अन्य  cities have served as  the  meeting place  लिये  Congress and  हैं  therefore considered to have once been  the  capital of the United States  .
In addition , each  of  the 50 U.S. states and  the  five principal territories of the  संयुक्त  States maintains its own capital .
Princess cut diamond set in a ring
The Princess cut is the  दूसरी  most popular cut shape for diamonds , next to  a  round  शानदार  .
the  face-up  आकार   of  the princess cut is square or rectangular and the profile or side-on shape is similar to  कि  of  an   उलट  pyramid  साथ   चार  beveled  पहलू  .
The  राजकुमारी   काटें   is  a relatively new diamond  काटें  , having been created in the 1960s .
it  has  gained  in popularity in recent years as a more distinctive alternative to the more popular round  शानदार   काटें  ,  in  which the top of diamond , called  the  crown , is cut with a  गोलाकार  face-up shape and the bottom , called the pavilion , is shaped  समान  to  a  cone  .
a  princess  काटें  with  the  same width as the diameter of a round  शानदार  will weigh more as  it  has  चार   किनारे  which would otherwise have been cut off and  rounded   to   रूप   a  round brilliant .
the   राजकुमारी  cut  is  sometimes referred to as a  वर्गाकार   परिवर्धित   शानदार  .
However , while displaying the same high degree of brilliance , its faceting  स्टाइल  is  अद्वितीय  and completely different from that of a round  शानदार  .
The Princess cut had its origins in the early `` French '' cut , having a step-modified `` Double-French ''  or  `` Cross '' cut crown  और   a  series of unique , chevron-shaped facets in the pavilion which combine to give  a  distinct cross-shaped reflection when  the  stone is  viewed  directly through the table .
Effectively  ,   the  Princess cut combines the high degree of light return of a  गोलाकार  brilliant cut with a distinctive square or  आयताकार  shape .
The square  राजकुमारी   काटें  diamond is usually  थोड़ा  cheaper than round brilliant cut diamonds of  the   वही  carat weight because it retains about 80 % of  the   अशिष्ट  diamond  ,  as opposed to the round brilliant which retains only about 50 % of the rough .
The ability  to  retain more crystal weight  makes  this shape  लोकप्रिय  amongst diamond cutters .
Accredited Gem Appraisers ( AGA  )  and  अमरीकी  Gem Society Laboratory  (   agsl  ) and European Gem Laboratories-USA ( EGL-USA ) are currently the only labs that grade the Princess cut for cut .
There is no universal definition of what measurements  मेक  an ideal princess cut diamond and many diamond  निर्माताओं  market ideal diamonds with differing facet patterns and angles as  ``   आदर्श  cut '' .
In  कंट्रास्ट   to  the AGSL , AGA , and EGL-USA the Gemological Institute of America ( GIA ) has stated that there is not enough  उद्योग  consensus or empirical  आंकड़ा  to specify  काटें   ग्रेडिंग  standards  लिये   राजकुमारी   काटें  diamonds and  to  do so is  at  the risk of consumers  जो  may be deceived by diamonds accompanied  by  unqualified  आदर्श  or Excellent cut grades .
The name  ``  Princess Cut  ''  was originally  प्रयुक्त  in connection with another  डायमंड  cut , otherwise  ज्ञात  as the  ``  Profile '' cut , designed by Arpad Nagy , a London cutter , in 1961 .
The same  नाम  was later  प्रयुक्त  and made  लोकप्रिय   by  Ygal Perlman  ,   betzalel   ambar   ,  and Israel Itzkowitz in Israel  in   1979   .
A similar cut with only 49  facets  , as opposed to the original 58 facets of the princess cut , was later branded the `` Quadrillion '' and initially distributed  by  Ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles .
Three  सालो  of optical research yielded a  वर्गाकार   स्टोन  with  faceting  similar to that of a round  शानदार   काटें  diamond .
A Comparison
The number of chevrons can  affect   the   overall   आउटलुक  of  a  princess cut diamond .
This  can  usually  be  determined  by  the wire diagram that is plotted in diamond grading reports .
By adding more chevrons on the pavilion side of the diamond ,  the   व्यक्तिगत   facets  of the diamond will now be broken  bas  into smaller facets .
As a result , it can give  a  princess cut diamond a `` crushed  बर्फ  '' look .
Vice versa , when a princess cut diamond has lesser chevrons , it tends  to  give the  डायमंड  a chunky outlook due  to  broader facets .
The domestic dog (  canis  lupus familiaris ) is  a  subspecies of the gray wolf  (  Canis lupus  )  , a member of  the  Canidae family of  the   mammalian  order Carnivora .
The term  ``  domestic dog  ''  is  generally   प्रयुक्त   लिये  both domesticated and feral varieties .
The dog  रै   महरूम   the  first animal  to   be  domesticated and has been  the  most widely kept working  ,  hunting ,  और  pet animal in human history .
the  word `` dog '' may also mean the  पुरूष   of   a  canine species  ,  as opposed to the  शब्द  `` bitch '' for the female of  the  species .
MtDNA evidence shows an evolutionary split between the modern dog 's lineage and the modern  भेड़िया   's  lineage around 100,000 years  पहले  but , , the oldest fossil specimens genetically  linked  to the modern dog 's lineage date to approximately 33,000-36,000  सालो  ago  .
कुत्तो  ' value to early  इंसान  hunter-gatherers led to them quickly becoming  सर्वव्यापी  across world  संस्कृतियों  .
Dogs perform many  भूमिकाएँ  for people  ,  such as  शिकार  , herding , pulling loads , protection , assisting police and military ,  companionship  , and , more recently , aiding handicapped individuals  .
This  प्रभाव  on human society has  दिए  them  the   उपनाम   ``  Man 's Best Friend  ''  in the Western world .
in  some cultures , dogs  हैं  also a source of meat .
In 2001 , there were estimated to  be  400 million  कुत्तो  in  the  world .
Most breeds of dogs  हैं   at  most a  few  hundred years old , having been artificially selected for particular morphologies and behaviors  by   लोगों  for specific functional roles .
through  this selective  प्रजनन  , the dog has  विकसित  into hundreds  of   varied  breeds , and shows more behavioral and morphological variation than any  अन्य   जमीन  mammal .
For  उदाहरण  ,  ऊँचाई  measured  to  the withers ranges from in the Chihuahua to about in the  आयरिश   wolfhound  ; color varies from white through grays ( usually  पुकारा  `` blue ''  )  to black , and browns  इससे   लाइट  ( tan ) to dark ( `` red ''  or  ``  चॉकलेट  '' ) in a wide  विभिन्नता  of patterns ; coats can be short or long ,  coarse-haired  to  wool-like  , straight , curly , or  चिकना  .
It is common for most  breeds  to shed this coat .
Diagram of a transmission electron microscope
A 1973 Siemens  इलेक्ट्रॉन  microscope , Musée des Arts et Métiers , Paris
An  इलेक्ट्रॉन  microscope ( EM )  is  a type of microscope that uses an electron beam to illuminate a specimen and  उपज  a magnified image  .
An EM has greater  resolving  power than a  लाइट  microscope and can reveal  the  structure  of  smaller objects because  electrons  have wavelengths about 100,000 times shorter than visible light  photons   .
They  can   achieve  better than 50 pm resolution and magnifications of up to about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary , non-confocal light microscopes  हैं   सीमित  by  विवर्तन  to about  200  nm resolution and  उपयोगी   magnifications  below 2000x .
The  इलेक्ट्रॉन  microscope uses electrostatic and  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  lenses to control the electron beam and focus it to form an  चित्र  .
ये  electron optical lenses are  analogous  to the glass lenses of a light optical microscope .
Electron microscopes are used  to  investigate the  ultrastructure   of  a wide range of biological and inorganic  नमूनों  including microorganisms , cells , large molecules  ,   biopsy  samples ,  धातुओं  , and crystals  .
Industrially , the electron microscope is  प्रायः  used for quality  कंट्रोल  and failure analysis .
Modern electron microscopes  उपज  electron micrographs , using specialized digital cameras or frame grabbers to capture the image .
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is a  कड़ी  of fried chicken fast food restaurants  संस्थापित  in 1972 in New  ऑरलियन्स  , Louisiana  .
Often referred to as Popeyes  और  sometimes as Popeyes Chicken & Biscuits or  popeyes  Chicken  &  Seafood  ,  It was acquired  by   sandy   स्रोतों  , Georgia  -आधारd   afc   उद्यमों  , originally America 's Favorite Chicken Company , in 1993 .
According to  a  company press release dated June 29 , 2007 , Popeyes is  the  second-largest  ``  quick-service chicken restaurant group , measured by number  of  units  ''   ,  with more than 1,800 restaurants in more than 40 states  और  the District of Columbia , and over 22  देशों  worldwide including Turkey  ,  Northern Cyprus ,  बहरीन  ,  चीन  , Hong Kong  ,   इराकी  , Indonesia , Jordan , Kuwait ,  संयुक्त  Arab Emirates  ,  Japan ,  मलेशिया  , Saudi Arabia , South Korea  ,  Singapore , Canada , Jamaica , Guyana  ,  Suriname , Mexico , Trinidad  ,  Puerto Rico , Honduras , Vietnam ,  पनामा  , Peru , and Costa Rica .
About thirty locations are company-owned , the rest franchised .
The leg press is  a   वज़न  training  कसरत  in which the individual pushes a weight  or   प्रतिरोध   दूर  from them using their legs .
the  term leg press also refers to  the  apparatus used  to  perform this  कसरत  .
The leg press can be used  to  evaluate  an  athlete 's overall lower body  शक्ति  ( from  घुटना  joint  to  hip ) .
Using the diagonal sled-type leg press machine .
There are two main types of leg press:
The diagonal or vertical 'sled ' type leg press  .
Weight disks  (  plates ) are attached directly to the sled , which  is   आरोहित   on  rails  .
The user  sits  below the sled and pushes  it  upward with their feet .
ये   मशीने  normally include adjustable safety brackets that prevent  the  user from being trapped  अंतर्गत  the weight .
the  'cable ' type  लेग  press  ,  or 'seated leg press '  ,  commonly found on multigyms .
The user sits upright and pushes forward  साथ  their  फीट  onto a plate that is  संलग्न  to the weight stack by means  of  a long steel cable .
Wendy Williams Hunter ( born Wendy Joan Williams ; July 18 , 1964 ) is  an  American media personality  ,   अभिनेत्री  and author .
She hosts a  syndicated   टेलीविज़न   बात  show , The Wendy Williams  दिखाएँ  .
Prior to television  ,  Williams was a `` shock jockette  ``  on several radio  shows  .
Williams has gained  सुर्खी  for her on-air spats with  हस्तियाँ  .
She was the subject of the 2006 VH1 reality TV series called The Wendy  विलियम्स  Experience which broadcast events surrounding her radio show .
She has written  an  autobiography and several other books  ,  and has created a product  लकीर  called  adorn  by Wendy Williams .
Patrick Henry  ``   देशद्रोह  '' speech before  the  House of Burgesses in an 1851  पेंटिंग  by  पीटर  F. Rothermel
`` Give me liberty , or  दे   me  death ! '' is  a  quotation  attributed   to   पैट्रिक  Henry from a speech he made to the Virginia  सम्मेलन  .
On  कि  day , at  st.  John 's Church in Richmond ,  वर्जिनिया  , and  is   credited  with having swung the balance in  convincing  the  वर्जिनिया  House of Burgesses to pass a resolution delivering the Virginia troops to the  क्रांतिकारी  War .
Among the delegates to the convention were future US Presidents  थामस  Jefferson  और  George Washington .
Newfoundland and Labrador ( , locally ) is the easternmost province of Canada .
Situated in  the  country 's Atlantic region , it incorporates the island of  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  and  मेनलैंड  Labrador  to  the northwest  ,   साथ   a   संयुक्त  area of .
In 2011 ,  the  province 's population was 514,536  .
लगभग  92  प्रतिशत  of the province 's population lives on the Island of Newfoundland  (   सहित  its associated  छोटी  islands  )  , of which more than half live on the Avalon Peninsula .
The province  is  Canada 's  सबसे  linguistically homogenous ,  साथ  97.6 %  of  residents reporting English (  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  English  )   as  their mother tongue in the 2006 census ; .
Historically , Newfoundland was also home to unique varieties  of  French , and Irish ,  as  well as the now-extinct Beothuk language .
In Labrador , local dialects of Innu-aimun and Inuktitut are also spoken  .
Newfoundland  और  Labrador 's capital and largest city , St. John 's  ,   is  Canada 's 20th-largest Census Metropolitan Area , and is home  to  almost 40 percent  of  the province 's population .
St. John  's  is the seat  of   सरकारी  ,  घर  to  the  House of  सभा  of  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड   और  Labrador and the  उच्चतम  court in the jurisdiction , the Newfoundland and Labrador Court of Appeal .
A  पूर्व  colony and dominion of the  संयुक्त  Kingdom ,  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  and Labrador became the tenth province to enter the Canadian Confederation on March 31  ,  1949 , as  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  .
On  दिसम्बर  6 , 2001 ,  an  amendment was made to the  संविधान  of Canada to change the province  's  official  नाम  to Newfoundland and Labrador .
In day-to-day conversation , however ,  canadians  generally still refer  to  the province itself as  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  and  to  the  प्रदेश  on  the   कनाडाई  mainland as Labrador .
Theodore `` T.R . ''
Roosevelt  ,  Jr. ( ; October 27 , 1858—January 6  ,  1919 ) was the 26th President  of  the United States (  1901–1909   )   .
He is noted for  उसके  exuberant personality , range of interests  और   उपलब्धियाँ  , and his leadership of  the  Progressive Movement , as well as his `` cowboy `` persona and robust masculinity .
He was  a  leader of the Republican  पार्टी  and founder of the first  अवतार  of  the  short-lived Progressive  (   ``   सांड  Moose '' ) Party of 1912  .
पहले  becoming President ,  he   आयोजित  offices  at  the city , state , and federal  स्तर  .
Roosevelt 's achievements as a  naturalist  , explorer ,  शिकारी  , author  ,   और  soldier  हैं  as much a part  of  his fame as any office  he  held as a politician .
रूज़वेल्ट  was 42  सालो  old when sworn in as President of the United States in 1901 , making him the youngest president ever  ;  he beat out the youngest elected president , John F. Kennedy , by only one  साल  .
Roosevelt was also the  पहला   of  only  तीन  sitting  राष्ट्रपतियों  to have won the Nobel Peace Prize .
The Teddy bear is named after him , despite his contempt for being  पुकारा  `` Teddy ''  .
Born  into   a  wealthy family  in  New York City , Roosevelt was a sickly  चाइल्ड  who suffered from asthma and stayed at home studying natural  इतिहास  .
To overcome his physical weakness  ,  he  embraced  a strenuous  जीवन   .
Home-schooled , he  became  an eager  छात्र  of nature .
he  attended Harvard University , where he  पढ़ाई  biology , boxed and developed an interest in naval affairs .
In  1881  , one year out of  हार्वर्ड  , he was elected to the New York State  सभा  , where he became a leader of the reform faction of his Republican Party ( the `` GOP '' ) .
His  the   नवल  War of 1812 ( 1882 ) established  उसके  professional  प्रतिष्ठा  as a serious historian ;  he  wrote  numerous   किताबे  on hunting  ,  the outdoors ,  और  current  राजनैतिक  issues ,  as  well as frontier  इतिहास  .
In 1884  ,  his first wife and his mother died on the same day .
He  temporarily   बाएँ   राजनीती  and went to the frontier , becoming a rancher  in  the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas .
returning   to  New  यॉर्क  City  ,  he  भागा  for mayor  in  1886 , finishing third with  60,000   मत  .
He later gained fame by taking vigorous charge of the  नगर   पुलिस   .
At  the  national level , he was a leader  in  civil service reform .
the  Spanish–American War broke out  in  1898 while  रूज़वेल्ट  was , effectively , running the Department of the Navy .
He promptly resigned and formed the Rough Riders  –  a  स्वयंसेवी  cavalry regiment that fought in Cuba .
The war hero was elected governor in 1898 and in 1900 was nominated for vice president .
He successfully  सक्रिय   the  GOP base as  a   अत्यधिक  visible campaigner to  reelect  President William McKinley on  a  platform of high tariffs  ,  the gold standard  ,   साम्राज्यवाद   ,  prosperity at home  और  victory  विदेश  .
In 1901 , President William  mckinley   थी   assassinated  and Roosevelt  became   अध्यक्ष  .
he  attempted to move the  रिपब्लिकन  Party ( GOP )  toward  Progressivism , including trust busting  और  increased regulation  of  businesses .
Roosevelt became  the  first person elected to a term in his own right  in  1904 after having ascended to  the  Presidency ( from the Vice-Presidency ) upon the death of his predecessor ,  जीतना  the largest percentage of the  लोकप्रिय  vote since  the  uncontested election of 1820 .
रूज़वेल्ट   coined   the  phrase `` Square Deal `` to describe his domestic agenda , emphasizing that the average citizen would get a fair share under his policies .
As an  outdoorsman  and naturalist , he promoted the conservation movement .
On the world stage , Roosevelt 's policies  यहूद  characterized by his slogan ,  ``  Speak softly and carry a big stick `` .
A cousin is a relative  साथ  whom a person  साझा  one or more  आम  ancestor  (  s ) ( other than a  जनक  , child/descendant , sibling ,  child/descendant  of a sibling , or sibling of a parent/ancestor ) .
However in common parlance , `` cousin  ''  normally specifically means `` first cousin '' .
Systems  of  ``  डिग्री  '' and ``  removals   ''  are used  in  the English-speaking  संसार  to  describe  the exact relationship between  दो  cousins ( in the broad sense ) and the  पूर्वज   वे  have in common .
Various governmental entities have established systems for legal  उपयोग  that can more precisely  बताएँ   kinships  with common  पूर्वजो  existing any  क्रमांक  of generations in  the  past , though common  उपयोग  often  eliminates   the  degrees and removals and refers to people with common ancestry  as   बस  `` distant cousins '' or  ``  relatives '' .
वेबस्टर  is an American situation comedy that aired  on  ABC  इससे  September 16 , 1983 until May 8  ,  1987  ,  and in  first-run   अनुप्रयोग  from September 21  ,  1987 until  कूच  10 , 1989 .
The series was created by  stu   चांदी  .
The  दिखाएँ  stars Emmanuel Lewis  in  the title role  as  a young boy  जो   ,  after losing his parents  ,  is adopted by his  एनएफएल   -pro  godfather ,  portrayed  by  एलेक्स  Karras , and  उसके   नई  socialite wife , played by  सुसान  Clark .
the   फ़ोकस  was largely  on  how this impulsively married  युगल  had to adjust to their new  जीवनदान  and  अचानक  parenthood ,  लकिन  it was the congenial Webster himself who drove much of the plot .
The  श्रेणी   थी  produced  by  Georgian Bay  ltd.  , Emmanuel Lewis  entertainment  Enterprises , Inc. (  1986-1989  ) and Paramount Television  .
Like  एनबीसी  's earlier hit Diff'rent Strokes  ,  Webster  प्रदर्शित  a young African-American boy adopted by a white  परिवार  .
Three types of cell division
Cell division is the process by which a parent cell  divides  into  दो  or more daughter cells  .
Cell division usually occurs  as  part of a larger cell cycle .
In eukaryotes , there are two distinct type  of  cell  प्रभाग  : a vegetative  प्रभाग  , whereby each daughter  कोशिका  is genetically identical to the parent  कोशिका  ( mitosis ) , and a reductive cell division  ,  whereby  the  number of chromosomes  in  the daughter  कोशिकाएं   is  reduced by  हाफ  , to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis  )  .
दोनो   of  these cell division cycles are required in sexually  reproducing  organisms at some point in  उनके  life cycle  ,  and both are  believed  to be present  in  the last eukaryotic common ancestor Prokaryotes also undergo  a  vegetative  कोशिका   प्रभाग  known  as   शब्दकोष  fission , where their genetic material is segregated equally into two daughter cells .
All cell divisions , regardless of  सजीव  ,  हैं  preceded  by  a  सिंगल  round of DNA replication .
For simple unicellular organisms such  as  the amoeba , one cell division is equivalent to reproduction – an entire new organism is created .
On a larger scale , mitotic  कोशिका  division can create progeny from multicellular organisms , such as plants  कि  grow  इससे  cuttings .
Cell division also enables sexually reproducing organisms to develop  इससे   the  one-celled zygote ,  जिससे  itself was produced by  कोशिका  division from gametes .
और  after growth ,  कोशिका  division allows for continual construction and repair of the organism .
A human  होने   's  body experiences about 10,000 trillion  कोशिका  divisions  in  a lifetime  .
Cell division  रै  been modeled  by  finite  subdivision  rules .
The primary concern of cell division is  the  maintenance of the  असली  cell 's genome .
पहले  division can occur  ,  the genomic information that is  भंडारित   in  chromosomes must be replicated ,  और  the duplicated genome must be separated cleanly between cells .
a  great  सौदे   of  cellular infrastructure is involved  in   keeping  genomic information consistent between `` generations '' .
Mountain ranges of Massachusetts ,  संयुक्त  States  .
Howard Jones ( born John  हावर्ड  Jones  ,  23 February 1955 , Southampton , Hampshire , England ) is  a  British musician ,  सिंगर   और  songwriter .
according  to the Guinness Book of British Hit  singles  & Albums , ``  जोन्स  is an accomplished singer-songwriter who was a regular chart visitor in the mid-1980s with his  ब्रांड  of synthpop .
Jones  ,  who was equally popular in the U.S. , appeared at Live Aid ``  .
allmusic  journalist ,  स्टीफन  Thomas Erlewine  adds  , `` Jones was one of the defining figures of  mid-1980s  synthpop .
His music merged the technology  intensive   ध्वनि  of New  वेव  with the cheery optimism of hippies and  लेट  1960s  पॉप   .
Jones  racked  up a  स्ट्रिंग  of  हिट्स  in the mid and late 1980s , before  he  retreated into  होने   a   cult  figure in the 1990s '' .
The International Isle of Man TT (  पर्यटक  Trophy ) Race is a  मोटरसाइकिल   रेसिंग   इवेंट  held  on  the Isle  of   man   और   थी  for many years the most prestigious motorcycle race in the world .
The event was part of the FIM Motorcycle Grand Prix  संसार  Championship during  the   काल  1949–1976 before being  transferred   to  the  संयुक्त  Kingdom after safety concerns and run by the  fim   as  the British Grand Prix for the 1977 season .
the   आइल  of  man  TT Races became part of the TT  सूत्र  1  चैंपियनशिप  from 1977 to 1990  to  preserve the event 's racing  औकात   .
From 1989  the   रेसिंग  has been developed by the  आइल  of Man  विभाग  of Tourism as the  आइल  of Man TT Festival .
The race is run in  a  time-trial format on public roads closed for racing by the provisions of an Act of Tynwald ( the parliament  of   the  Isle of Man ) .
The first race was  आयोजित  on Tuesday 28 May  1907  and  थी  called the International Auto-Cycle Tourist  ट्रॉफी   .
The event was  संगठित  by the Auto-Cycle  क्लबों   over   10  laps  of  the St  जॉन  's Short Course of 15 miles 1,470 yards  लिये   road-legal  touring motorcycles  साथ  exhaust silencers , saddles , pedals and mud-guards .
the  winner of the  single-cylinder  class , and  overall  winner of the first event in 1907 , was Charlie  collier  riding a Matchless motorcycle in a time of 4 hours , 8 minutes and 8 seconds  at  an average race  गति  of 38.21 mph .
the  winner of  the  twin-cylinder class was Rem Fowler riding  a  Peugeot engined Norton in a  समय  of 4 hours 21  मिनट्स  and  52  seconds at an average  रेस  speed of  36.21  mph .
The trophy presented to Charlie Collier as the winner of  the   1907  Isle of Man  tt  Race , was donated by the Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars .
It featured a  stylised  version of  ओलम्पिक  God Hermes by Giovanni Da  बोलोग्ना  as a silver  figurine  astride a winged wheel .
the  trophy was similar  in  design to  the  18 carat gold Montague Trophy  प्रस्तुत   to   जॉन  Napier  (  Arrol-Johnston )  as   the   inaugural  winner of the Isle of Man  पर्यटक  Trophy car race in  1905  now known  as   the   rac  Tourist Trophy  .
the   बिल्ले  de  mouzilly   st.  Mars  ट्रॉफी  is now presented annually to the winner of the Isle  of  Man Senior TT  motor-cycle  Race .
The 2007  आइल  of Man TT  थी  the Centenary event  जिससे  ran  between   26  May  और  8 June  2007  and  प्रदर्शित   a  special Re-enactment  of   the   1907  Isle of  man  TT Race held on the village green next to  tynwald  Hill in  st  John  's  on Monday 28 May 2007 .
The  विंटेज  parade of 100  क्लासिक   मोटरसाइकिल  for the Centenary Re-enactment on the original St John 's Short Course was flagged away  by  former World  motor-cycle  Champion Geoff Duke .
the   पहला  of the participants  to  be  flagged   दूर  was  the  recently restored twin-cylinder Peugeot-Norton ridden by  rem  Fowler during the first Isle of Man TT Race  in  1907 .
Also participating in  the   2007  Re-enactment was TT race  प्रतिस्पर्धी  Guy Martin riding a 1938 Triumph Tiger 100 500  cc  and other  पूर्व   tt   प्रतिस्पर्धी  including Alan Cathcart ,  सैमी  Miller , Nick Jefferies and Mick  ग्रान्ट  also completed the  re-enactment  lap .
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or joblessness  )  occurs when people are  बगैर  work and actively seeking  कार्य  .
The  बेरोजगारी  rate is a  माप  of the prevalence of unemployment and it is calculated as a percentage by  dividing  the number of  बेरोजगार  individuals by all individuals currently in the labor force .
During  अवधि  of recession  ,   an  economy  प्रायः  experiences a relatively high  बेरोजगारी  rate .
According to International Labour Organization  रपट   ,  more than 197  लाख  people globally are out of work  or   6  % of the world 's workforce  यहूद   बगैर  a job in  2012  .
There remains considerable theoretical debate regarding the causes , consequences and solutions for unemployment .
Classical economics , New classical economics , and the Austrian  स्कूल  of  अर्थशास्त्र  argue  कि  market  mechanisms  are reliable means of resolving unemployment  .
ये  theories argue  विरूद्ध   interventions  imposed on the labor market from  the  outside  ,  such as unionization ,  न्यूनतम  wage laws  ,  taxes , and  अन्य  regulations that they claim discourage the hiring of workers .
Keynesian  अर्थशास्त्र  emphasizes the cyclical  प्रकृति  of unemployment and recommends government  interventions  in the  अर्थव्यवस्था   कि  it claims will  reduce  unemployment  दौरान  recessions .
इस  theory focuses on  तूल  shocks  कि   एकाएक  reduce  कुल  demand for goods and services and thus reduce demand  लिये  workers .
keynesian  models recommend government interventions designed to increase demand  लिये  workers ; these can  शामिल   वित्तीय  stimuli , publicly funded job creation  ,  and expansionist monetary policies .
in   जोड  to these comprehensive theories  of   बेरोजगारी  , there  हैं  a few  categorizations  of unemployment that are used to more precisely model the effects of unemployment within the  आर्थिक  system  .
The main types  of   बेरोजगारी   शामिल  structural unemployment which focuses on structural problems  in  the economy and inefficiencies inherent in labour markets  ,   सहित  a mismatch  between   the  supply and  माँग  of  laborers  with necessary skill  सेट  .
Structural arguments emphasize  कल्याणकारी   और  solutions related to  विघटनकारी  technologies and globalization  .
चर्चाएँ  of  frictional  unemployment  फ़ोकस  on voluntary decisions  to  work based on each individuals ' valuation  of   उनके  own work  और  how that compares to current wage rates plus the time  और  effort required to find a job .
कल्याणकारी   और  solutions for frictional unemployment often address job  प्रविष्टि  threshold and wage rates .
Behavioral  अर्थशास्त्रियों  highlight individual  biases   in  decision making , and often involve problems and solutions concerning sticky wages and efficiency wages .
Collectivism is  कोई  philosophic , political , religious ,  आर्थिक  , or social  आउटलुक  that emphasizes the interdependence of every human being  in  a society  or   सभ्यता  .
Collectivism is a basic cultural element that exists as the reverse of individualism  in  human nature ( in the same  रास्ता  high  कॉन्टेक्स्ट  culture exists  as  the reverse  of   कम   कॉन्टेक्स्ट   संस्कृति  )  .
collectivist  orientations stress the importance of cohesion within  सोशल  groups  (  such as  an   ``  in-group  ''  , in what specific context it is defined ) and in some  मामले  , the priority of  समूह  goals over individual goals .
collectivists  often focus on community , society , nation or country  .
It has been  प्रयुक्त  as an element in many  अलग   और   विविध  types of government and political  ,  economic and educational  तत्त्वज्ञान  throughout history and most human  समाजों   in  practice contain elements  of  both individualism and collectivism .
Some examples of collectivist  संस्कृतियों  include India and Japan .
collectivism  can be  विभाजित  into horizontal collectivism and vertical collectivism .
Horizontal collectivism  तनावों  collective decision-making among  बराबर  individuals , and  is   यूँ  usually based on decentralization and egalitarianism .
Vertical collectivism is  आधारित   on  hierarchical structures of power and on  moral  and  सांस्कृतिक  conformity , and is  इसलिए  based  on  centralization  और  hierarchy .
A cooperative  एंटरप्राइज़   होता  be an example  of  horizontal collectivism , whereas a  सैन्य  hierarchy would be  an  example of vertical collectivism .
अधि  disseminated encephalomyelitis ( ADEM ) is an immune mediated disease of the  दिमाग  .
It usually occurs  following  a  वाइरल  infection but  may  appear  following   टीकाकरण  , bacterial or  parasitic  infection , or even  appear  spontaneously .
as  it involves autoimmune demyelination , it is similar to multiple sclerosis , and is considered part of the Multiple sclerosis borderline  रोगों  .
the  incidence rate is about 8 per 1,000,000 people per year  .
Although it occurs in all ages , most reported cases  हैं  in children and adolescents ,  साथ  the  औसत  age around 5 to 8 years  बूढ़ा  .
the  mortality rate  may  be  as  high as 5 % , full recovery is seen in 50 to 75 % of cases , while up  to  70  to  90 %  रिकवर   साथ  some minor residual disability .
The average time  to  recover is one to  छह  months  .
ADEM produces multiple inflammatory  lesions  in  the  brain and spinal cord , particularly  in  the white matter .
Usually these are  मिला  in the  subcortical  and central white matter and cortical gray-white junction  of  both cerebral hemispheres  ,   cerebellum  ,  brainstem   ,  and  स्पाइनल   cord   ,  but  periventricular  white matter and gray matter of the cortex , thalami and basal ganglia may also be involved  .
When the patient suffers more than one demyelinating episode ,  it  is called recurrent disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis (  mdem  ) .
The  पेट  is a muscular  ,  hollow , dilated  भाग  of the  पाचन  system  जिससे  functions as an important organ of the digestive  ट्रैक्ट  in some  पशु   ,   सहित  vertebrates ,  echinoderms  , insects ( mid-gut ) ,  और  molluscs  .
It is  शामिल  in  the  second phase of digestion ,  following  mastication ( chewing ) .
The  पेट  is located between the esophagus and  the  small intestine  .
it  secretes protein-digesting enzymes called protease  और  strong acids to aid in food digestion , ( sent to it via  esophageal   peristalsis   )  through smooth muscular contortions ( called segmentation )  पहले  sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the small intestines .
The word  पेट  is derived from the Latin stomachus which is derived from  the  Greek word stomachos ( στόμαχος  )   ,  ultimately from stoma ( ) , `` mouth  ''  .
The words  gastro-   और   gastric  ( meaning related to the stomach )  हैं  both derived from the Greek word gaster ( ) .
1940 Pontiac Special Series 25 Woodie
A woodie is  a  car body style , especially a  स्टेशन  wagon , where the rear bodywork  is  constructed of wood framework with infill panels of wood or painted metal .
After the  निधन  of actual wood construction , manufacturers used  अनुकरण  woodgrain sheet vinyl—sometimes augmented with three-dimensional , simulated  framework—to   recall  wood construction .
in  2008  ,  wood construction was evoked abstractly on the Ford Flex with a series of side and rear horizontal grooves .
A pearl is  a  hard  ऑब्जेक्ट  produced within the soft tissue ( specifically the mantle ) of a living shelled mollusc .
Just like the  शेल  of a clam  ,   a  pearl is made up  of   कैल्सियम  carbonate in minute crystalline form , which has been deposited  in   केंद्रिय  layers .
the  ideal pearl is  perfectly  round and smooth ,  लकिन  many  अन्य  shapes of pearls ( baroque pearls ) occur  .
The finest quality natural pearls have  महरूम  highly valued as gemstones and  वस्तुएँ  of beauty for many  सदियां  , and because of this , the word pearl has become a metaphor for something very rare , fine  ,   सराहनीय  , and valuable .
The most valuable pearls occur spontaneously in  the  wild , but they are extremely rare .
These wild pearls are referred to  as  natural pearls  .
Cultured or  farmed  pearls from  पर्ल  oysters and freshwater mussels make up  the  majority of those that are currently sold .
Imitation  मोती  are also widely sold in  inexpensive  jewelry , but the quality of their iridescence is usually very poor , and often , artificial  मोती  are easily distinguished from genuine  मोती  .
मोती   have  been harvested and  cultivated  primarily for  उपयोग   in  jewelry , but in  the   पास्ट  they were also  सिले  onto lavish clothing  .
Pearls  have  also been crushed and used  in  cosmetics  ,  medicines , and in paint formulations .
Whether wild or  संस्कारी  ,  gem  quality  मोती  are almost  सदा  nacreous and ,  as  is the interior of  the  shell that produces them .
However  ,  almost all  प्रजाति  of shelled molluscs are  सक्षम  of producing pearls  (  formally  referred  to as  ``  calcareous concretions  ''   by   कुछ  sources  )  of lesser shine  or  less spherical shape .
हालांकि  these may also be  legitimately  referred to  as  `` pearls  ''   by  gemological labs and also under U.S. Federal  व्यापार  Commission rules ,  और   हैं  formed in the same way , most of them have no value , except as curiosities .
Bing (  ज्ञात  previously as Live Search , Windows Live Search , and MSN  ढूंढें  ) is a web search engine  (  advertised as a  ``  decision engine  ``  )  इससे  Microsoft .
Bing was unveiled by Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer on May 28  ,  2009 at the  सब  Things  डिजिटल  conference in San  डिएगो  for  रिलीज  on  जून  1 .
Notable changes  शामिल  the listing of search suggestions while  प्रश्नों  are entered and  a  list of related searches ( called `` Explore pane '' ) based on  semantic  technology from Powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008 .
on   जुलाई   29  , 2009 , Microsoft and Yahoo ! announced  a  deal in  जिससे  Bing  होता   शक्ति  Yahoo ! Search .
All  याहू  ! Search global  ग्राहक  and  साझेदार   हैं   अपेक्षित  to have  बना  the transition  by   जल्दी  2012 .
In October 2011 ,  bing   घोषित  it was working  on  new back-end search infrastructure ,  साथ  the goal of  delivering  faster and  थोड़ा  more relevant  ढूंढें  results for  उपयोक्ता   .
Known as  ``   बाघ  '' , the new index-serving  प्रौद्योगिकी  has  महरूम   incorporated  into Bing globally , since August  2011   .
In May  2012   ,  Bing  घोषित   another  redesign of its search  इंजन  that  शामिल  `` Sidebar  ''  ,  a  social  विशेषता  that searches  उपयोक्ता  '  सोशल  networks for information relevant  to   the  search query .
A diagram showing an I Formation on offense  और  a 4-3 Formation on defense
In American  फ़ुटबॉल  , each team has eleven players  on  the  फ़ील्ड   at  one  समय  .
The specific role that a  खिलाड़ी  takes  on  the field is called their position .
अंतर्गत  the modern rules of American  फ़ुटबॉल  , teams are allowed unlimited subsititutions , that is teams may  बदलें  any number of players after  कोई  play .
This has resulted  in  the development of three `` platoons  ''   of  players ,  the  offense ( the team with the ball , who is  trying  to score ) , the defense  (  the team trying  to  prevent the other team from  स्कोरिंग  , and to take the ball from them )  ,  and  the  special teams ( who  खेल  in kicking situations ) .
Within those platoons  ,   विभिन्न   विशिष्ट  positions  मौजूद  depending  on  what the player 's main job is .
The Irish people  (  or na hÉireannaigh  ;  Ulster-Scots :  airish  fowk ) are an ethnic group who originate in Ireland , an island in northwestern Europe .
Ireland has been populated for  around  9,000 years  (   according   to  archaeological studies , see Prehistoric Ireland ) .
The  आयरिश   लोगों  's earliest  पूर्वजो  are recorded  in  legends – they are claimed to be  descended   इससे   समूह  such as the Nemedians , Fomorians , Fir  bolg  ,  tuatha  Dé Danann  और  the Milesians  .
Lebor Gabála Érenn , a book of Irish  mythology   tells  that Milesians were Scythian descendants .
The main  समूह  that interacted with  the  Irish in  the  Middle Ages include the Picts , Scots , and the Vikings .
due  to this contact ,  icelanders  are  विख्यात   लिये  having some  आयरिश  descent .
the   anglo-norman  invasion of  the  High Middle Ages , the English plantations and the subsequent English rule of the country  introduced   the  Normans  और   फ्लेमिश  into  आयरलैंड  .
Welsh  ,   picts  , Bretons ,  और   छोटी  parties of Gauls and even Anglo-Saxons are known in Ireland from much earlier times  .
There have been many  notable   आयरिश  people throughout history .
The  6th  century Irish monk  और  missionary Columbanus is regarded as one of the `` fathers of Europe '' , followed by Kilian of Würzburg and Vergilius  of  Salzburg .
The scientist  रॉबर्ट  Boyle is considered  the  ``  पिता  of chemistry  ``  .
Famous  आयरिश  explorers include Brendan the Navigator , Robert McClure  ,   अर्नेस्ट  Shackleton and Tom Crean  .
By some accounts , the  पहला  European  चाइल्ड   born  in North America had  आयरिश  descent on  दोनो  sides  ;  and an Irishman was the first European to set foot on  अमरीकी  soil in Columbus ' expedition of 1492  .
There are descendants of Irish people living in  अनेक  western countries , particularly in English-speaking countries .
historically  , emigration has been caused by politics , famine and  आर्थिक  issues .
an  estimated 50 to 80 million people  हैं  descendants of Irish people , primarily in the United Kingdom , the United States , Australia , Canada and Iceland  ;  there  हैं   भी  smaller numbers in  अर्जेंटीना  , Chile , Mexico , Jamaica , Barbados , South Africa , New Zealand  ,   फ़्रांस  ,  जर्मनी  and  ब्राज़ील  .
The largest number of descendants of  आयरिश  people live in the United States .
The number of people  जीना   in  Australia  जो   हैं  of Irish descent is higher , as a percentage of total population ,  than  that of any other country .
Approximately forty percent of the settlement  जनसांख्यिकी  of Iceland came from Ireland or Scotland .
The very first inhabitants of Iceland were Irish .
The Hubble Space  दूरदर्शी  (  hst  ) is a  स्पेस  telescope  कि   थी   carried   into  orbit by a Space Shuttle in 1990 and remains in  आपरेशन  .
A aperture telescope  in  low Earth  कक्षा  , Hubble 's four main instruments observe in the near ultraviolet , visible  ,  and  निकट  infrared .
the  telescope is  नामित   बाद  the astronomer Edwin Hubble .
Hubble  's  orbit outside the  distortion   of  Earth  's  atmosphere allows it to  लो  extremely sharp images with almost no background light  .
हबल  's  गहन  Field have  महरूम   कुछ  of the most detailed visible-light images ever  ,  allowing a deep view  into  space and time .
अनेक  Hubble observations have  led  to breakthroughs in astrophysics , such as accurately determining the rate of expansion of the universe .
Although not the  पहला  space telescope ,  हबल  is one of the  largest  and most versatile , and is well known as both a vital research tool and a public  संबंध  boon for astronomy .
The HST  थी  built by  the  United  राज्य  space agency NASA , with contributions from the European  स्पेस  Agency ,  और   is  operated by the Space Telescope Science Institute .
the  HST is one of  नासा  's Great Observatories , along  साथ  the Compton  गामा  Ray Observatory , the Chandra  x-ray   वेधशाला  , and  the  Spitzer Space  दूरदर्शी  .
Space telescopes were proposed as early as  1923   .
Hubble was  वित्तपोषित  in the 1970s , with  a  proposed launch in  1983  , but the  प्रोजेक्ट   थी  beset by technical delays ,  बजट  problems , and  the  Challenger disaster .
When finally launched in 1990 , scientists  मिला  that the main mirror had been ground  incorrectly  ,  compromising  the  दूरदर्शी   's  capabilities .
The telescope was restored to its  intended  quality by a servicing mission in 1993 .
Hubble is the only telescope designed to be serviced in  स्पेस  by astronauts .
Between 1993 and 2002 , four missions repaired ,  upgraded  , and replaced systems  on   the  telescope  ;  a fifth mission was canceled on safety grounds following the Columbia disaster .
However , after spirited public  चर्चा  , NASA  व्यवस्थापक  Mike Griffin  स्वीकृत  one final  सर्विसिंग  mission , completed in 2009  by  Space Shuttle Atlantis .
The telescope is now expected to  फलन  until  at  least 2013 .
Its scientific successor  ,  the  जेम्स  Webb Space  दूरदर्शी  ( JWST ) , is to be launched in 2018 or possibly  बाद  .
Anti-inflammatory refers to the property of a substance  or  treatment that reduces inflammation .
Anti-inflammatory drugs  मेक  up about half of analgesics ,  remedying  pain by reducing inflammation as opposed to opioids , which affect  the  central nervous  प्रणाली  .
The Tonight Show is a US late-night talk  दिखाएँ   कि  has aired on  एनबीसी  since 1954 .
It is the longest  फिलहाल   कार्यशील   regularly  scheduled entertainment program in the US  और  the third longest-running show on NBC after Meet the Press and Today  .
The  tonight  Show  थी  hosted by Steve Allen ( 1954–1957 ) , Jack  paar   (   1957–1962  ) , Johnny Carson ( 1962–1992 ) , Jay  लीनो  ( 1992–2009 , 2010–present )  ,   और  Conan O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ) .
Several  अतिथि  hosts  भी  appeared ,  विशेषकर   दौरान   the  Paar and Carson eras .
The longest-serving host  to  date was Johnny Carson , who hosted The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson  लिये  30 seasons from the fall  of  1962 through the spring of 1992  .
The current host  of  the show is Jay Leno ,  जो  had previously hosted  the  show  इससे  1992 to  2009  and began  उसके   दूसरी   कार्यकाल   on   कूच   1   ,   2010  .
on  April 3 , 2013 , NBC announced  jimmy  Fallon would become the new host of The Tonight  दिखाएँ  .
The  tonight  Show with Jimmy  fallon  will premiere February 24 , 2014 , the  दिन  after the closing ceremonies  of   the   2014  Winter Olympics .
SS Andrea Doria  .
Pronounced was an ocean liner for the Italian Line ( Società di navigazione  इटालिया  )  घर  ported in  जेनोआ  , Italy ,  सबसे  famous for its sinking in 1956  ,  when 52 people died  (  51  इससे  immediate impact ) .
Named after the 16th-century Genoese  admiral  Andrea Doria , the  जलयान  had a gross  पंजीकरण  tonnage of 29,100 and a capacity of about 1,200  यात्री  and  500  crew .
लिये   a  country attempting  to   rebuild  its economy and reputation after World War II , Andrea Doria was an icon of Italian national pride  .
Of  सब   इटली   's  ships at  the   समय  , Andrea  डोरिया  was the  largest  , fastest  और  supposedly safest .
शुभारम्भ  on  16  June 1951 , the ship undertook its maiden voyage on 14 January 1953 .
On 25 July 1956 , while the Andrea Doria  थी   approaching  the coast of Nantucket , Massachusetts , bound  लिये  New York City  ,  the  eastbound  of the Swedish American Line collided with it  in  what became one of history 's most infamous maritime  आपदाओं  .
struck  in the side  ,  the top-heavy Andrea Doria  तत्काल  started  to  list severely to starboard , which left half of its lifeboats unusable  .
The  consequent  shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in  significant  loss of life , but the efficiency of the ship 's technical design allowed it to  रहो  afloat for over  11  hours after  the  ramming .
the  good behavior  of  the  क्रू  , improvements in communications and  the  rapid response of other  जहाजों   averted  a  विपत्ति  similar in  स्केल  to  कि  of the  in  1912 .
1,660 passengers and crew were rescued and survived , while 46 people  died   as  a consequence  of   the  collision .
the  evacuated luxury liner  capsized  and sank the following morning  .
This accident  remains  the  worst  maritime  विपत्ति  to occur in United States waters since the  डूब  of the  in   1915  .
The  घटना  and its aftermath were heavily  covered  by the news media .
जबकि  the rescue efforts were  दोनो  successful  और  commendable ,  the  cause of the collision with the Stockholm  और   the  loss of Andrea Doria  उत्पन्न   much   ब्याज  in  the  media  और  many lawsuits  .
Largely because of an  out-of-court  settlement agreement between  the   दो  shipping companies during hearings  तत्काल  after the disaster ,  no   determination  of the cause (  s   )  was ever formally published .
Although greater blame appeared initially to fall on the Italian liner  ,  more recent  discoveries  have indicated that a misreading  of  radar  on  the Swedish ship may have  initiated  the  टक्कर  course  ,   अग्रणी  to errors on both ships .
Andrea Doria was  the  last  प्रमुख   transatlantic   यात्री  vessel to sink before aircraft became the preferred method of  सफर   .
डायलिसिस   tubing
Dialysis tubing is a type of semi- or partially permeable  झिल्ली  tubing made  इससे  regenerated cellulose or cellophane .
It can be  प्रयुक्त  for diffusion with solutes or  परासरण  if used with water only  .
Osmosis is when water  गुजरता  through a semi-permeable layer  to  reach equilibrium .
Diffusion  ,  on  the  other  हाथ  , allows  the  movement  of  molecules from high concentration to  कम  concentration  .
It will only allow  अणुओं   to  pass  through  a semi-permeable membrane or  परत  if the  अणु  is small  पर्याप्त   to  fit through the membrane or a  झिल्ली   's  pore .
इस  usually results with the effects  of  diffusion through  a  membrane only  वाकई  affects small  अणुओं  , and almost never  larger  molecules .
Dialysis tubing is  प्रयुक्त   in  clinical circumstances  to  ensure a filtered  प्रवाह  of molecules , preventing  the  flow of larger solute molecules .
छोटी  molecules can be `` washed ''  आउट  of a solution which is pumped through the tubing into a  solvent   ,  usually water , which surrounds  it  and  in   जिससे  they can  be  flushed away .
In demonstrations  of  semi-permeable membranes , a solution containing several types of molecules ,  प्रायः   ग्लूकोज  and starch ,  is  placed into  a  semi-permeable  डायलिसिस  bag , such as a cellulose membrane  साथ  pores , and the bag is  sealed  with a knot or elastic  बैंड  .
The sealed dialysis bag is placed in a container of  a   अलग  solution , or water .
Molecules small  पर्याप्त  to pass through the tubing ( water , salts  ,  monosaccharides ,  और  other small molecules )  tend  to  मूव  into or out  of  the dialysis bag in the  दिशा  of decreasing concentration , therefore displaying diffusion  .
Larger molecules ( such as proteins , or polysaccharides ) that have dimensions  significantly  greater than the pore diameter  हैं  retained  अंदर  the  डायलिसिस  bag .
The  जल  and smaller  solutes  in a hypotonic solution ( a solution that  रै  a  lesser  solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to  )  will cross  a  semi-permeable membrane , like  डायलिसिस  tubing  ,  into a hypertonic solution ( a  समाधान   कि  has a higher solute concentration than the solution it  is  referenced to )  in  an  attempt  to reach equilibrium , where  the  solute concentration  of  each solution is  in  equilibrium .
पारा  laboratory thermometer
A thermometer ( from  the  Greek , thermos , meaning `` hot '' and μἐτρον ,  metron  , `` measure '' )  is  a device  कि  measures temperature or temperature  अनुपात  using a variety  of  different principles .
a  thermometer has two important elements : the temperature  सेंसर  ( e.g . the bulb on a mercury-in-glass  थर्मामीटर  ) in which some physical change occurs with temperature ,  प्लस  some means of converting this physical  बदलें  into  a  numerical value ( e.g . the visible scale that is marked on a  mercury-in-glass   थर्मामीटर  )  .
There are many types and many  उपयोग  for thermometers ,  as   विस्तृत   नीचे  in sections of this article .
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is a  1937  American  एनिमेटेड  musical fantasy film produced  by  Walt Disney and released by RKO Radio Pictures  .
Based on the German  परी  tale  by  the Brothers  grimm   ,  it is the first full-length  cel  animated feature film and the earliest in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series  .
The story  थी  adapted by storyboard artists Dorothy Ann Blank , Richard  creedon  , Merrill De Maris  ,  Otto Englander , Earl Hurd  ,  Dick  rickard  , Ted Sears and  webb  Smith .
David Hand was the supervising director , while William Cottrell , Wilfred Jackson , Larry Morey , Perce Pearce ,  और  Ben Sharpsteen directed the film 's individual sequences .
Snow White premiered at the Carthay Circle  थिएटर  on  दिसम्बर  21 , 1937 ,  followed  by a  देशभर  release  on   फ़रवरी  4  ,  1938  ,  and with  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  earnings of  $  8  लाख  during its  आरंभिक  release briefly assumed the record  of  highest  grossing  sound  फिल्मी  at  the  time  .
The popularity of the film has led to it being re-released  theatrically  many times , until its home video release in the 1990s .
Adjusted for inflation  ,  it is one of the top ten  performers  at the North American box office .
At  the  11th Academy Awards  ,   वॉल्ट  Disney was awarded an honorary  ऑस्कर   ,  and the film  थी  nominated for Best Musical Score  .
It  थी  added to the United  राज्य  National Film Registry in 1989 and is ranked in the American Film Institute 's list of  the  100 greatest American  films  , who also named the film as the greatest  अमरीकी  animated film  of  all time in 2008 .
डिज़्नी  's  लो   on   the  fairy tale has had  a  big cultural impact , resulting in  a  popular theme park attraction  ,  a video game , and a Broadway musical .
प्रसव  , labour , delivery ,  जनम  ,  partus  , or parturition  is   the  culmination of a pregnancy  काल   साथ   the  expulsion of  एक  or more newborn infants  इससे  a woman 's  गर्भाशय  .
The process of normal childbirth is categorized in three stages of  श्रमिक   :  the shortening and  dilation   of  the  ग्रीवा  , descent  और   जनम  of the infant , and birth of the placenta .
In many cases and with increasing frequency  ,  childbirth is achieved  through  induction of labor or caesarean section ,  जिससे  is the  हटाना   of  the neonate through  a  surgical incision in the abdomen  ,  rather than through vaginal birth  .
Childbirth  by  C-Sections increased 50 % in  the  U.S. from 1996  to  2006 , and comprise nearly 32  %   of   births  in  the  U.S.  और  Canada .
With  आदर  to induced labor ,  अधिक  than 22 % of women  undergo  induction of labour  in  the  संयुक्त  States .
Medical professional  नीति  makers find that induced births and elective cesarean can be  नुकसानदेह  to the fetus and neonate as well as harmful or  बगैर   लाभ   to  the mother  ,  and have established strict guidelines  लिये  non-medically indicated induced births  और  elective cesarean before 39 weeks  .
Viva La Bam was an  एमटीवी  & Viva show which followed  bam  Margera and his  क्रू  as they undertook challenges , performed stunts and traveled the world .
The show ran for 5 seasons between 2003 and 2005  .
Flushed Away is a 2006 British/American computer animated action /  एडवेंचर  comedy film directed by David Bowers and Sam  गिरी  .
It was made in the partnership between  aardman  Animations and DreamWorks Animation , and is Aardman 's first completely computer-animated feature as opposed to the  usual   stop-motion  .
The film  सितारों   the  voice talents of Hugh Jackman , Kate  विंसलेट  , Andy Serkis ,  विधेयक  Nighy  ,  Ian  mckellen  , Shane Richie  और  Jean Reno .
The story was by  sam   गिरी  , Peter Lord , Dick Clement , and Ian La Frenais , and the screenplay  थी  written by Dick Clement  ,  Ian La Frenais  ,  Christopher Lloyd , Joe Keenan , and William Davies .
The film was released  in   us  on 3 November 2006 , and in UK on December  1  2006 ,  और   थी   वितरित  by Paramount Pictures , except  लिये  Switzerland , Spain , and the  नीदरलैंड्स  , which were handled by Universal  तस्वीरें  .
the  Atlanta  braves   हैं  a  पेशेवर  baseball team based in Atlanta .
The Braves  हैं  a member of the Eastern  प्रभाग  of  प्रमुख  League Baseball 's National  लीग  .
The Braves have played in  टर्नर  Field since 1997 .
The  ``  Braves '' name  ,  which was first  प्रयुक्त  in 1912 , originates  इससे  a  पद   लिये   a  Native American  योद्धा  .
They are nicknamed  ``  the Bravos '' ,  और  often referred to as `` America 's Team `` in reference to the team 's games being  ब्रॉडकास्ट  on the nationally available  tbs  from the 1970s until 2007 , gaining a wide  fanbase  .
From 1991 to 2005 the Braves were one of the  सबसे  successful  franchises  in baseball , winning  प्रभाग  titles an unprecedented 14 consecutive  टाइम्स  in that period ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 season in  जिससे  there were no official division champions ) .
The  braves   जीती  the NL West  1991–93  and  the  NL East 1995–2005 , and returned to the  playoffs  as the National League Wild Card in 2010  .
The Braves  उन्नत  to the World Series five times  in  the 1990s ,  जीतना  the title in 1995 .
Since their debut in the National League in  1876  ,  the  franchise has won  16   डिवीजनल  titles , 17 National League pennants  ,  as well as three World Series  championships—in  1914 as the Boston Braves ,  in  1957 as the Milwaukee Braves ,  और  in 1995 in  अटलांटा  .
The Braves are the only MLB franchise to have won the World Series in three different  घर  cities .
The club is one of  the  National League 's two remaining charter franchises (  the  other being the Chicago Cubs ) and was  संस्थापित   in  Boston  ,  Massachusetts ,  in   1871  as the Boston Red Stockings ( not to  be  confused with the American League 's Boston Red Sox ) .
They are considered `` the oldest continuously  playing  team  in  major North American sports . ''
There is an  तर्क  as to who  is  actually older because although the Cubs  हैं  a full season `` older ''  (  formed as the Chicago White Stockings in 1870 ) Chicago lost two  सीज़न   to  the Great Chicago Fire ,  यूँ  the Braves  have  played more consecutive seasons .
बाद  various name changes ( such as the Boston Beaneaters ) , the team operated as  the   बोस्टन  Braves for  सबसे   of  the first half of the 20th century .
In 1953 , the team  स्थानांतरित  to Milwaukee  ,   विस्कॉन्सिन  and became the Milwaukee Braves ,  followed  by the move  to  Atlanta in  1966  .
The team 's tenure  in  Atlanta is famous for Hank  आरोन   तोड़कर  Babe Ruth 's career home  चलाएं  record  in  1974  ,  though the majority of Aaron 's home runs were  hit  while the team was in Milwaukee .
His record  stood  until 2007 , when San Francisco left fielder Barry Bonds broke  the  record  .
The leaves of a  beech  tree
3D rendering  of   a  μCT scan  of  a leaf piece , resolution circa 40 μm/  voxel  .
A  पत्ता  is an organ of a  vascular   संयंत्र  , as defined  in  botanical terms , and  in  particular in plant  morphology  .
Foliage  is   a  mass  संज्ञा  that refers to leaves as a feature  of  plants .
typically  a  पत्ता  is a thin  ,  flattened organ  borne  above ground  और  specialized for photosynthesis  ,  but many types of leaves are adapted in ways almost  unrecognisable  in those  शर्तें  :  कुछ  are not flat  (  for example many  रसीले  leaves and  conifers  ) , some  हैं   नहीं   ऊपर  ground  (  such as bulb  तराजू  ) , and some are without major photosynthetic function ( consider for example cataphylls , spines , and cotyledons ) .
Conversely  ,  many  structures  of non-vascular  पौधे   ,  or  भी  of some lichens ,  जिससे  are not plants at all (  in  the  भाव  of being members of  the  kingdom Plantae ) , do look and function much like leaves .
Furthermore , several structures found in vascular plants  dekh  like leaves but are not actually leaves ; they differ from  पत्ते  in their  structures   और  origins .
Examples include  phyllodes   ,  cladodes ,  और  phylloclades .
Title  कार्ड  for the 1937 Our Gang comedy Rushin ' Ballet .
Our Gang ( also known as The Little Rascals  or  Hal Roach 's Rascals )  हैं  a series of American comedy short films about  a   समूह  of  ग़रीब  neighborhood children and their adventures .
Created by comedy producer Hal Roach ,  the  series is  विख्यात   लिये  showing children behaving in a relatively natural way  ,   as  Roach and  असली  director Robert F. McGowan  worked  to film the unaffected , raw nuances  apparent  in  नियमित   children  rather than have  उन्हें  imitate adult acting styles .
In addition , Our Gang notably  put  boys , girls , whites and blacks together in a  समूह  as equals , something that  ``  broke new  मैदान  , '' according to film  इतिहासकार   लियोनार्ड   maltin   .
Such a thing had never been done  पहले  in  सिनेमा  but has since  महरूम  repeated  बाद  the success of Our  गिरोह   .
The  पहला   उत्पादन  at the  रोच  studio in 1922  थी  a  श्रेणी  of silent short subjects .
When Roach changed distributors from Pathé to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ( MGM  )   in  1927 ,  और  converted the series to sound in 1929 , the series took off even further .
Production continued  at  the Roach studio until 1938 , when the series was sold to MGM , who then continued producing the  comedies  until 1944 .
The Our Gang series  शामिल  a total of 220  शॉर्ट्स   और   एक  feature film  ,  General Spanky , featuring over  forty-one  child  अभिनेताओं  .
As  mgm  retained the rights to the Our Gang trademark following their purchase of the  उत्पादन  rights  ,  the 80  roach-produced  `` talkies '' were  syndicated  for  टेलीविज़न   अंतर्गत  the title The Little Rascals beginning  in  1955 .
Both  रोच  's  the  Little Rascals package  (  now owned by CBS Television Distribution ) and MGM 's Our Gang package (  अभी   स्वामित्व  by  warner  Bros. Entertainment )  have  since remained in  अनुप्रयोग  , with periodic new productions based on the shorts surfacing over the years ,  सहित  a 1994 Little Rascals feature film released by Universal Pictures .
Zacharias Janssen ( also Zacharias  जानसन  or Sacharias Jansen ) (  b.1580-88  , d.pre-1632 to  1638   )  was a Dutch  spectacle-maker   इससे   middelburg   संबद्ध  with  the  invention of  the  first optical telescope .
Janssen is sometimes also credited  लिये  inventing  the  first truly compound microscope .
However  ,  the origin of the microscope , just like the  उत्पत्ति   of  the telescope  ,   is  a matter of debate  .
Lake Tahoe  (  ; Washo : dáʔaw ) is a large freshwater  झील  in the Sierra  नेवाडा  of  the  United States .
at  a surface  उन्नयन  of ,  it  is located along the border between California and Nevada , west of Carson City .
Lake Tahoe is the largest  अल्पाइन  lake in  उत्तर   अमेरिका   .
Its  गहराई   is  , making it the United  राज्य  's second-deepest ( the deepest is  crater  Lake in Oregon  ,  being  deeper  , at ) .
additionally   ,  Lake  tahoe  is listed  as  the 26th largest  झील  by  आवाज़   in  the  संसार  at  .
The lake was formed about 2 million years ago and is a part of the Lake  tahoe  Basin with the modern lake being shaped during the ice  आयु  .
It is known for the clarity of  इसके  water and the panorama of surrounding mountains on  सब  sides .
The area surrounding  the  lake is also referred to as  झील  Tahoe , or simply Tahoe .
Lake Tahoe is a major tourist attraction  in  both Nevada  और  California .
It is home to  a  number of ski resorts ,  गर्मियाँ  outdoor recreation , and tourist attractions  .
Snow and skiing are a significant  भाग  of  the   क्षेत्रफल   's  economy and  प्रतिष्ठा  .
पहाड़  and lake scenery are attractions  throughout  the year .
The  नेवाडा  side  भी  includes  विशाल  casinos  .
राजमार्गों  provide year-round access from Reno , Carson City , and  sacramento  .
Page 1  of  the Twenty-seventh  amendment  's certification in the National  अभिलेख
Page  2  of the  amendment   's  certification
Page 3  of  the  amendment  's  प्रमाणन
The Twenty-seventh Amendment  (  Amendment XXVII ) prohibits any law that increases or decreases the salary of members of  the  Congress from taking effect  जबतक   the  start of the next set of terms of office for Representatives .
It is the most  हाल  amendment to  the  United States Constitution .
it  was  सुपुर्द  to the  राज्य  for ratification in 1789 and  थी  adopted in 1992 .
“First they  आए   ...  ” is  a  famous statement and provocative poem attributed to  पादरी  Martin Niemöller (  1892–1984   )   परिचय  the sloth of German intellectuals following the Nazis  '  rise to power and the subsequent purging of their chosen targets , group after group .
There is some disagreement over the exact wording of  the  quotation  और  when  it  was created ; the  सामग्री  of the quotation may  have  been presented differently by  niemöller  on different  अवसरों  .
This list of islands by area includes all islands in  the  world  वृहद  than 2,500 km2 ( )  और  several other islands  over  500 km2 ( ) ,  sorted  in descending order by area .
For comparison , continents  हैं  also  दिखाया  .
Four Thirds logo
The Four Thirds system  is  a standard created  by  Olympus and Kodak for  डिजिटल  single-lens reflex camera (  dslr  ) design and development. < ref name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a standard that , with digital  कैमरे  and lenses available from  अनेक  manufacturers , allows for the interchange of lenses and bodies from different  निर्माताओं  .
seems  to   कवर  the standard .
Proponents describe it as  an  open  मानक   ,   लकिन   कंपनियाँ  may only use it  अंतर्गत   a  non-disclosure agreement .
Unlike older SLR systems , Four Thirds has  महरूम  designed from the  मैदान  up to be entirely digital  .
Many lenses are  extensively  computerized , to the point that Olympus offers  फर्मवेयर  updates for many of them .
Lens design has been tailored to the requirements of digital sensors , most  notably  through telecentric designs .
The size  of  the sensor is significantly smaller than  लिये  most  dslrs  and  इस  implies that  lenses  ,  विशेषकर   telephoto  lenses , can be  छोटी  .
For example , a Four Thirds lens  साथ  a 300 mm focal length  होता  cover about the  वही  angle of view as a 600 mm focal length  लेंस  for the 35 mm film standard , and is correspondingly more  कॉम्पैक्ट  .
Thus , the  चार  Thirds System has crop factor ( focal length multiplier ) of  परिचय  2 ,  और   जबकि  this  enables  longer  फोकल  length for  वृहद  magnification , it  करता  n't aid the manufacture of  चौड़ी   कोण  lenses .
The image sensor format , generally intermediate between those of larger SLRs and  छोटी   कॉम्पैक्ट  cameras , generally gives levels of cost , performance and convenience intermediate between those two classes .
HVAC systems use ventilation air ducts installed throughout a building to  सप्लाई  conditioned air  to   a  room through outlet vents , called diffusers ; and ducts to remove  एयर  through return-air  grilles  .
hvac  ( heating ,  वेंटिलेशन  , and air conditioning  )  is the  प्रौद्योगिकी  of indoor and automotive  पर्यावरणीय  comfort .
HVAC  प्रणाली  design is  a  subdiscipline  of  mechanical engineering , based on the principles of thermodynamics , fluid mechanics , and heat transfer .
Refrigeration is sometimes added to the field 's abbreviation as HVAC & R or HVACR , or ventilating is dropped as  in  HACR ( such  as  the designation  of  HACR-rated  सर्किट  breakers )  .
HVAC is important in  the   डिज़ाइन  of  मीडियम  to large industrial and office buildings such as skyscrapers and in marine environments such as  एक्वैरियम   ,   जहाँ  safe and healthy building conditions  हैं  regulated with respect to temperature and humidity ,  using  fresh air  इससे  outdoors .
वेंटिलेशन  on  the  downdraught system , by  impulsion  , or the 'plenum '  principle  , applied to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
Heating  ,  ventilating , and air  कंडीशनिंग  is  आधारित  on inventions and discoveries  बना  by Nikolay  lvov  ,  माइकल  Faraday , Willis Carrier , Reuben Trane , James Joule , William  rankine  , Sadi Carnot ,  और   अनेक   अन्य  .
The invention of  the  components  of   hvac  systems went  hand-in-hand  with the industrial revolution , and new  विधि  of modernization , higher efficiency , and  प्रणाली  control are constantly introduced  by  companies and inventors worldwide .
The three central functions of  हीटिंग  ,  ventilating  , and air-conditioning are  interrelated  , especially with the need to provide  थर्मल  comfort and acceptable  अंदर  air quality within reasonable installation , operation  ,  and maintenance  लागत  .
HVAC systems  can  provide ventilation , reduce air  घुसपैठ  , and maintain pressure relationships between spaces .
The means of  एयर  delivery  और  removal from spaces is  ज्ञात  as room  एयर  distribution .
The starting point in  carrying  out an estimate both  लिये  cooling and heating depends on the exterior climate  और   आंतरिक  specified conditions .
however  before taking  up   the  heat load calculation , it is necessary to find  भैस  air  आवश्यकताएँ  for each area in detail , as  pressurization  is  an   महत्वपूर्ण  consideration .
In modern buildings the design , installation , and control systems of these  कृत्यों  are integrated  into   एक  or more HVAC systems .
For very small  इमारतें   ,  contractors normally capacity engineer and select  hvac  systems and equipment .
For larger buildings , building services designers and engineers , such as mechanical , architectural ,  or  building services engineers analyze , design , and specify the  hvac  systems , and specialty mechanical contractors fabricate and commission them .
Building  permits  and code-compliance inspections of the installations are normally required for  सब  sizes  of  buildings .
the  HVAC industry  is   a  worldwide enterprise , with roles  सहित  operation and maintenance ,  प्रणाली  design and construction , equipment manufacturing and sales , and  in  education and research  .
The HVAC  उद्योग   थी  historically regulated  by  the manufacturers of HVAC equipment , but regulating and standards organizations such  as  HARDI  ,  ASHRAE , SMACNA , ACCA , Uniform Mechanical Code  ,  International  mechanical  Code , and AMCA have been established to support the  उद्योग   और  encourage high standards  और  achievement .
Royal Navy Commander  जेम्स  Bond ,  cmg  , RNVR  ,  is a  fictional  character created  by  British journalist  और  novelist Ian  फ्लेमिंग   in  1953 .
He is the  समर्थक   of  the James Bond series of novels , films , comics  और   वीडियो   खेल  .
फ्लेमिंग  wrote twelve Bond novels and two short  स्टोरी  collections before his death , although  the   पिछला  two books— The Man with  the  Golden Gun and Octopussy and The Living  daylights   —were  published posthumously .
the   बंध  character is a Secret Service agent , code number 007 , residing in London  लकिन  active internationally .
बंध  was a composite character who was based on a number of commandos whom Fleming knew  दौरान  his  सेवा  in the Naval Intelligence Division during World  युद्ध  II , to  जिसको  Fleming added his own style and a  क्रमांक  of  उसके  own tastes ; Bond 's name was  appropriated  from  अमरीकी  ornithologist James Bond  .
बंध  has a number of  अक्षर  traits which run throughout the books  ,  including an enjoyment of cars ,  a  love of food and drink , and  an  average intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day .
चूंकि  Fleming 's death in 1964  ,  there have been other authorised writers of Bond material , including  जॉन   गार्डनर  ,  जो  wrote fourteen novels and two novelizations  और  Raymond Benson  ,  who wrote six novels  ,   तीन  novelizations and three short stories  .
There  have  also been three  लेखक  who wrote one book  प्रत्येक  , Kingsley Amis (  लिखने   as   रॉबर्ट  Markham ) , Sebastian Faulks  और  Jeffery Deaver  .
additionally   a  series  of  novels based  on  Bond 's youth— Young Bond —was written  by  Charlie  higson  .
As  spin-offs  from the literary works ,  वहीँ  was a television adaptation  of  the  पहला   अनोखा   ,  Casino  royale  ,  in   जिससे  Bond was played as an American agent  .
A  कॉमिक  strip series also ran  in  the Daily  एक्स्प्रेस  newspaper  .
There have also  महरूम  twenty-five Bond films ; seven actors have played Bond in these  films  .
`` Nature  लड़के  '' is a song  by   ईडन  Ahbez , published in 1947 .
The  सोंग  tells  a  fantasy of a  ``  strange enchanted boy ... who wandered very far  ''  only  to  learn that  ``  the greatest thing ...  थी  just  to  love and be loved in return '' .
Nat King Cole 's 1948 recording of the song was a  प्रमुख  hit and  ``  Nature Boy '' has  चूंकि  become a pop and jazz standard ,  साथ  dozens of major artists interpreting the  सोंग  .
Louisiana ( or ; , ;  louisiana  Creole : Léta de la  lwizyàn   )   is  a  राज्य  located in  the  southern region of the United States of America .
Louisiana  is  the  31st  most  extensive  and the 25th most populous of the 50 United States .
Its capital is Baton Rouge and largest  नगर  is New Orleans .
louisiana   is  the only state in the U.S. with political subdivisions  termed  parishes , which are local government 's equivalent  to   काउंटी  .
the  largest parish by population is  ईस्ट  Baton Rouge  मोहल्ला  ,  और  the  largest  by land area is  cameron   मोहल्ला  .
much   of  the state  's  lands  यहूद  formed from  sediment  washed down  the  Mississippi River , leaving enormous deltas and vast areas of coastal marsh and swamp .
These contain a rich southern biota ;  ठेठ  examples include  पक्षियों  such as  आइबिस  and egrets .
There are also  अनेक   प्रजाति  of tree  मेंढक  , and fish  ऐसे   as   sturgeon  and paddlefish .
in   अधिक  elevated  क्षेत्रों  , fire is a natural process in  the   लैंडस्केप   ,  and has  उत्पादित   extensive  areas of longleaf pine forest and  गीला  savannas .
These  support  an exceptionally large  क्रमांक  of plant species , including many species of orchids  और  carnivorous  पौधे  .
कुछ  Louisiana  शहरी   environments   have   a   multicultural  , multilingual heritage  ,  being so strongly influenced  by  an  जिसमें  of 18th-century French  ,  Spanish , Native American ( Indian ) and  अफ़्रीकी  cultures that  वे  are considered to be somewhat exceptional  in  the U.S .
Before  the  American purchase  of  the territory , the current Louisiana  राज्य  had  महरूम  both a Spanish and French colony .
In addition , the  पैटर्न  of development included importing  numerous  African  स्लेव  in the 18th  सदी  , with many from the same region of West Africa , thus concentrating their culture  .
in  the  post-civil  War environment  ,  Anglo-Americans increased  the   दबाव  for Anglicization , and  in  1915 ,  अंग्रेज़ी  was  बना  the only official language  of   the   राज्य  .
Women  's  rights are  the  rights and entitlements claimed  लिये  women and girls of many societies worldwide  .
In some places  ये   अधिकारों  are  institutionalized  or supported by law , local custom , and behaviour , whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed .
They  differ  from broader notions of human rights through claims of an  अंतर्निहित  historical and traditional bias against the exercise of rights by women and  लड़कियों  in favour  of  men and  लड़कों  .
मुद्दे  commonly associated with  धारणाएं  of women 's rights include , though are not limited to ,  the  right  :  to bodily integrity and autonomy  ;  to vote ( suffrage  )  ;  to  hold public  दफ्तर  ; to work ; to fair wages or equal pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to  have  marital , parental and religious rights .
The laws of science or scientific  कानून  are statements that describe , predict , and perhaps explain why  ,   a  range  of  phenomena  व्यवहार  as they appear to in nature .
The  पद   ``  law '' has diverse usage  in  many cases :  सन्निकट  , accurate , broad  or  narrow theories  ,   in  all  प्राकृतिक  scientific disciplines ( physics ,  रसायन  , biology  ,   भूविज्ञान  , astronomy etc . ) .
An analogous term for a scientific law is  a  principle .
Scientific laws:
summarize a large collection  of  facts determined by experiment into a single statement,
can  usually be formulated mathematically  as  one or several statements or equation , or at least stated in a single sentence , so that  it  can be used to predict  the   निष्कर्ष  of an experiment ,  दिए   the   आरंभिक  , boundary , and  अन्य  physical conditions of  the  processes which take place,
are  strongly   समर्थित  by  अनुभवजन्य  evidence  -   वे  are  वैज्ञानिक  knowledge that experiments  have   repeatedly  verified  (  and never  falsified  ) .
Their  सटीकता  does not change  जब  new theories are worked out , but rather  the  scope of application , since the equation (  if  any ) representing  the  law does  नहीं  change .
As  साथ  other scientific knowledge , they do not have absolute certainty  जैसे   गणितीय   theorems  or identities , and  it   is  always possible for  a  law to be overturned by  भविष्य  observations .
are  प्रायः   कोटेड  as a fundamental controlling influence rather than a description of observed facts  .
I.e . `` the laws of motion require  कि  ''
Laws differ from hypotheses and postulates , which are proposed during the scientific process before and during  validation   by  experiment  और   अवलोकन  .
ये  are  नहीं  laws since they have not been verified  to  the same degree  और  may not  be  sufficiently general , although they may lead to the formulation of laws .
A law is a more  solidified   और  formal statement ,  आसुत   इससे  repeated  प्रयोग  .
Although the  अवधारणाओं  of a law  or  principle in nature is borderline to philosophy  ,  and presents the depth to which  गणित   can   describe  nature , scientific laws are considered from a scientific perspective  और   follow  the  वैज्ञानिक   विधि  ;  वे  ``  serve  their  purpose  '' rather than `` questioning  वास्तविकता   ''  ( philosophical )  or   ``  statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical )  .
For example  ,   whether   a  law `` refers to reality '' is a philosophical issue , rather  than  scientific .
Fundamentally , all scientific laws follow from  भौतिकी  , laws  जिससे  occur in other sciences ultimately follow from physical laws .
Often ,  इससे  mathematically fundamental viewpoints , universal  स्थिरांक  emerge from scientific laws .
The  लॉन्च   of  the PlayStation 3 into  the   जापानी  market on  10  November 2006 marked the second major seventh  पीढी  entertainment system to  be  released .
The system was released seven  दिनों  later  on  17 November in the United States .
परिचय  into other world markets was delayed by a shortage of diodes for  उपयोग  in the Blu-ray disc player ; the device  थी  launched in European and other world  बाज़ार  in  the  first half  of  2007 .
लॉरेन  Fenmore Baldwin ( formerly Williams  और  Grainger ) is a  fictional  character  इससे   the  CBS soap operas The Young and the Restless  और  The  बिंदास  and the Beautiful , portrayed  by  Tracey E. Bregman .
वो  made  उसके  debut during the episode airing on  जनवरी  21 , 1983 .
In 1992  ,   bregman  began  बनाना  sporadic  दिखावे  on  the  Bold  और   the   खूबसूरत  , later resulting in the  अक्षर   migrating  there fully  in  1995 .
Following a  अतिथि  appearance in 2000  ,  Bregman returned to The Young and the Restless on August  24  , 2001 , remaining  on  recurring status .
In 2013 , it  थी  announced  कि  Bregman  था  been  लगाई  on contract .
Much  of   लॉरेन  's history has  revolved  around her romances with Paul  विलियम्स  , Scott  grainger  , Sr. , and Michael Baldwin  among  many others causing a  fierce  rivalry with Traci Abbott Connolly .
Lauren is  भी  famous for her long , violent rivalry with Sheila Carter .
The 2010 NBA Finals was the National Basketball Association ( NBA )  चैंपियनशिप  series for the 2009–10 season  .
the  best-of-seven playoff  थी   लडे   between  the Los Angeles  लेकर्स  ,  champions   of  the Western Conference  और   defending   एनबीए   champions  , and the Boston Celtics , champions of  the  Eastern  सम्मेलन   .
The Lakers  पराजित  the Celtics , four games to three , to  जीत   the  franchise  's  16th NBA championship .
The 64th edition of the championship  श्रेणी   थी  played  between  June 3 and June  17  , was broadcast on  एबीसी  ,  और  was watched by an average of  18.1  million people .
The  सेल्टिक्स  earned  उनके  berth into the playoffs  by  winning  the  Atlantic Division .
The Lakers  जीती  the Pacific  प्रभाग  to earn their berth  .
The Celtics reached  the  NBA  फाइनल  by defeating the Miami  ऊष्मा  in the  best-of-seven  Eastern Conference First Round , the Cleveland Cavaliers in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Semifinals , and defending  पूर्वी  conference champion Orlando Magic in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Finals .
The Lakers reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Oklahoma City Thunder in  the  best-of-seven Western Conference  पहला  Round ,  the  Utah Jazz  in  the best-of-seven Western Conference  semifinals  , and the Phoenix Suns in the best-of-seven  पश्चिमी  Conference Finals .
The NBA Finals were scheduled in the  प्रमुख  League Baseball World Series  2–3–2  seven game format , with the Lakers possessing home-court advantage as  a  reward for finishing with better  नियमित  season record  than  the  सेल्टिक्स  .
Repeated  baskets  from starters Kobe Bryant , Pau  gasol   ,  and  रॉन  Artest brought the Lakers close to victory in Game 1 .
a  record breaking performance from Ray Allen  's  eight three-point baskets ensured the  सेल्टिक्स   a  Game 2  triumph  .
Derek Fisher ’s 11 points in the  चौथी  quarter helped the Lakers win  खेल  3 .
The Celtics won  खेल  4 ; it did n't hurt that they netted an excellent performance in baskets by the team’s reserves , while Paul Pierce led the team to a Game 5 win  साथ  27 points on 57 % shooting from the floor .
the   लेकर्स  avoided elimination by  जीतना  a decisive  खेल  6 with 24  अंक  contributed by their bench .
Although they  trailed  the Celtics by 13  अंक  early in the  तीसरा  quarter  ,  the Lakers rallied and won their  दूसरी  consecutive championship by taking over an  रोमांचक  Game 7 aided by late contributions on offense by  pau  Gasol and Artest and rebounding .
Bryant was named Most  मूल्यवान  Player of the Finals for  उसके  second  लगातार  trophy .
This  थी  the  पहला  NBA  फाइनल  to  go  the full seven games since  और  only  the   चौथी  since the NBA Finals returned to a 2–3–2 format in .
The Laker  मताधिकार   रै  16 NBA  championships  (  पाँच  in Minneapolis  ,   11  in Los Angeles ) trailing the Celtics ' seventeen championships .
The NBA  फाइनल  used the `` World Series '' Format in 1949 Minneapolis Lakers defeated the Washington Capitols 4 games to 2 ; in 1953  मिनियापोलिस  defeated the  नई   यॉर्क  Knicks 4 games to 1 ;  in  1954 Minneapolis  पराजित  the Syracuse Nationals 4 games  to  3 ;  और  in 1955 Syracuse Nationals defeated the Fort  वेन   पिस्टन्स  4 games  to  3 .
The NBA  होता   वापसी  to the 2–2–1–1–1 National Hockey League seven game series format until 1985 .
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum  )  is  a  flowering vine in the family Piperaceae ,  cultivated  for its  फल  , which is usually  सूखी   और  used as a spice  और  seasoning .
The fruit , known as a peppercorn when dried , is approximately in diameter ,  अंधेरा   रेड  when fully mature , and , like all drupes , contains a single seed  .
peppercorns   ,  and the  मैदान   pepper  derived from them  ,  may be described simply as pepper , or  अधिक   precisely  as black  pepper   (  cooked and dried unripe fruit )  ,  green pepper ( dried  unripe  fruit )  और  white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ) .
Black pepper is native to south India ,  और  is  extensively   cultivated  there  और   elsewhere  in  तीव्र  regions  .
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and exporter of  pepper   ,   producing  34 % of  the  world 's  पाइपर  nigrum  क्रॉप  as  of   2008  .
Dried ground pepper has been used since antiquity for both its flavour  और  as a medicine .
Black pepper is the world 's  सबसे  traded spice .
It is  एक  of the most common spices added to European cuisine and  इसके  descendants  .
the   spiciness  of black pepper is due to the chemical  piperine  , not to  be  confused with the capsaicin that  देता  fleshy peppers  theirs   .
It is  in  the  आधुनिक  world , often  युग्म  with  नमक  .
In cardiovascular physiology ,  ejection   भिन्न  (  ef  ) represents the  आयतनी   भिन्न   of  blood  उत्तेजित  out of the ventricle ( heart  )  with each heart beat or  हृदय  cycle .
it  can be applied  to  either the right ventricle which ejects via the  pulmonary  valve  into  the pulmonary circulation or  the  left  ventricle  which ejects via the aortic valve into the  प्रणालीगत  circulation .
Imaging of the physiology of the  mammalian  heart is the art that allows meaningful mathematical expression  धमक  EF .
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a  विश्वव्यापी  utility enabling study of cardiac performance  reproducibly  and  inexpensively  .
Simplified , Ejection fraction  is  a  गणितीय  product allowed by cardiac imaging .
As a  गणितीय  term , Ejection Fraction is an extension of the work  of  Adolph  फिक  in cardiac output .
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography , Computed  टोमोग्राफी  , Magnetic Resonance Imaging  और  MUGA scanning have definitively  अनुमत   clinically  relevant mathematics regarding Ischemia , Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure .
The prosecutor is the  मुख्य   विधिक  representative of the prosecution in  देशों  with either the common law  adversarial  system  ,   or   the  civil  विधि   inquisitorial   प्रणाली  .
The prosecution is  the  legal  पार्टी   जिम्मेदार  for presenting the case in  a  criminal trial against an individual accused  of  breaking the law .
Strawberry shortcake most  commonly  means a dessert in the  shortcake  family  of  cakes .
Strawberry shortcake may  भी  refer  to:
स्ट्रॉबेरी  Shortcake , a  अक्षर  and  मताधिकार  created by American Greetings
The shortened  शीर्षक  of Strawberry on the Shortcake , a Japanese  रोमांस   फिल्म  .
Abū al-Qāsim  muḥammad  ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn  hāshim  ( ) (  circa|  570 – circa| 8  जून  632  )  , also transliterated as  मुहम्मद  (  )  ,  थी  a religious , political , and  सैन्य  leader from  मक्का  who unified Arabia into a single religious polity  अंतर्गत  Islam .
He is believed by Muslims and Bahá'ís to  be   a  messenger and prophet of God  .
Muhammad  is  almost universally considered  by  Muslims as  the  last  नबी   भेजा  by God for mankind .
Non-Muslims regard Muhammad  as  the  संस्थापक   of  Islam  .
Muslims  consider  him to be  the  restorer of  an  unaltered original  monotheistic  faith of Adam  ,  Noah , Abraham ,  मूसा  ,  यीशु  , and other prophets .
Born  in  about 570 CE  in  the Arabian city  of  Mecca , he was orphaned at an early age and  brought  up under  the  care  of   उसके  uncle Abu Talib  .
He later worked  ज़्यादातर  as a  व्यापारी  ,  as  well as a shepherd , and was first  शादीशुदा   by   आयु  25 .
Being in  the   आदत  of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for  अनेक  nights of seclusion and prayer ,  he  later reported that it was there , at age 40 , that he  प्राप्त   उसके  first revelation from God .
Three years after this  इवेंट  Muhammad started  उपदेश  these revelations  सरेआम   ,  proclaiming that `` God is One `` , that complete  ``   आत्मसमर्पण  ''  to  Him ( lit .
islām )  is  the only way ( dīn ) acceptable  to   परमेश्वर  , and that he himself was a  नबी  and messenger of God  ,  in the same  रग  as other Islamic  नबियों  .
Muhammad gained few followers early  on  , and was met with hostility from some Meccan  जनजातियों  ; he  और  his followers were  treated  harshly .
To escape  persecution  , Muhammad sent some of his  अनुसरणकर्ता   to  Abyssinia  पहले  he and his  अनुसरणकर्ता  in  मक्का  migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib )  in  the year 622 .
इस  event , the Hijra , marks the beginning of the Islamic  पंचांग   ,  which  is  also known as  the   hijri  Calendar .
In Medina ,  मुहम्मद  united  the  tribes under the  संविधान  of Medina .
After  आठ  years of fighting with the Meccan tribes , his  अनुसरणकर्ता  , who by then had grown to 10,000  ,  took control of Mecca  in  the largely  शांतिपूर्ण  Conquest of Mecca .
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his followers out to destroy all of  the  remaining  pagan  temples  in  Eastern  अरब  .
In 632 , a few months after returning to Medina  इससे  The Farewell Pilgrimage , Muhammad  गिरी  ill and  died  .
By the time of his death , most  of  the  arabian  Peninsula had converted to Islam ,  और  he had united Arabia  into   a  single Muslim religious polity .
The revelations ( or Ayah , lit  .
`` Signs [  of  God ] ''  )  — which Muhammad reported receiving  जबतक  his death – form the verses  of  the Quran , regarded  by  Muslims  as  the `` Word of God '' and around  जिससे  the religion is based  .
Besides the Quran , Muhammad 's  जीवन  ( sira ) and traditions ( sunnah ) are also  upheld  by Muslims  as  the sources  of  sharia law .
They discuss Muhammad  और   अन्य  prophets of Islam with reverence , adding  the  phrase peace be  upon  him whenever their names are mentioned  .
While  conceptions  of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern times were largely negative , appraisals in modern history have been far less  so  .
the  Great Books ( second  संस्करण  )
Great Books of the Western World is a series of books originally  प्रकाशित  in  the  United  राज्य  in 1952 by Encyclopædia Britannica Inc. to present the  ग्रेट  Books in a single package of 54 volumes .
The series is now  in  its second edition and contains  60  volumes .
The original editors  of   the   श्रेणी  chose three criteria  लिये  inclusion : a book  जरूर  be relevant to  समकालीन   मुद्दे  , and not only  महत्वपूर्ण  in its historical context ; it must reward rereading ; and  it  must be a part of `` the great conversation  परिचय  the great ideas , '' relevant to at least 25  of  the 102 great ideas identified by the editors .
Books were not chosen on the basis of ethnic or cultural inclusiveness , historical influence , or the editors ' agreement with the  दृश्य  expressed .
``  Cocaine '' is a song written and recorded  by  JJ Cale in  1976  , but also  ज्ञात  as  a  cover version recorded by Eric Clapton .
allmusic  calls the latter `` among [ Clapton 's ] most enduringly popular  हिट्स  '' and notes that `` even for an artist like Clapton with a huge body of high-quality work ,  'cocaine   '  ranks among  उसके  best  .   ''
Glyn Johns ,  जो  had previously worked  साथ   the  Who  ,  Led Zeppelin  और  The  रोलिंग  Stones  ,  produced the Clapton recording ,  जिससे   थी   released  on Clapton 's 1977 album Slowhand and as  a   सिंगल  in 1980 .
The live version of ``  कोका   ''  ,  इससे  the Just One Night album recorded in Tokyo , charted on the Billboard Hot  100   as  the B-side of  ``   तुलसा  Time ``  ,  which was a No  .  30 hit  in   1980.  ``
कोका  '' was  एक  of several of Cale 's  गीतों  recorded by Clapton  ,   सहित  ``  बाद  Midnight `` and ``  travelin  ' Light '' .
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by  the  Japanese  इम्पीरियल  General Headquarters (  आपरेशन  Z in  नियोजन  )  और  the Battle of Pearl Harbor )  थी   a  surprise  सैन्य   स्ट्राइक  conducted by  the  Imperial  जापानी  Navy against the  संयुक्त  States naval base at  पर्ल  Harbor , Hawaii , on the morning of December 7  ,  1941  (  December  8  in  जापानी   )  .
From the standpoint of the defenders  ,  the  आक्रमण  commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian  समय  .
The attack  थी  intended  as  a preventive  कार्रवाई  in order to keep the U.S. Pacific  बेड़े  from interfering with military actions the Empire  of   जापानी  was  नियोजन  in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the United Kingdom , the  नीदरलैंड्स  , and the  संयुक्त  States .
The base  थी  attacked by 353 Japanese  सेनानी  , bombers and torpedo planes  in  two waves  ,  launched from six  वायुयान  carriers .
सब   आठ  U.S. Navy battleships were damaged  ,  with four being  sunk  .
Two of these  यहूद  later raised , and with the  बाकी  four  repaired  , six battleships returned  to  service later  in  the  युद्ध  .
The Japanese also sank  or  damaged  तीन   cruisers   ,  three destroyers , an anti-aircraft training ship , and one minelayer .
188 U.S. aircraft were destroyed ; 2,402 Americans were killed and  1,282  wounded  .
Important base installations such as the power station  ,  shipyard  ,  maintenance  ,  and  ईंधन   और  torpedo storage facilities  ,  as well as the submarine piers and headquarters  भवन   (  also home of the intelligence section  )  were not  attacked   .
जापानी   नुकसान  were light : 29 aircraft and five midget submarines lost ,  और   65   servicemen  killed or wounded .
One  जापानी  sailor was captured .
The attack came as  a  profound shock to the American people and  led  directly to the  अमरीकी   प्रविष्टि   into  World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters .
The  following  day ( December  8  ) , the United States declared  युद्ध  on Japan .
Domestic support for  non-interventionism  ,  जिससे   था  been strong  ,  disappeared  .
Clandestine  support  of Britain ( for example  the  Neutrality Patrol )  थी   replaced  by active alliance .
Subsequent operations by the  u.S.   prompted  Germany and Italy to declare  युद्ध  on  the  U.S. on December 11  ,  which was reciprocated by  the   u.S.  the same day .
There were numerous historical  precedents   लिये  unannounced military action by Japan  .
However  ,   the  lack  of  any  औपचारिक   चेतावनी   ,  particularly while  negotiations   यहूद  still apparently  जारी  , led President Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December  7  , 1941 , `` a date which will  सजीव  in infamy `` .
Project Runway Season 2 was the second season of Bravo  's   कामयाब  Project Runway , a reality competition for fashion designers .
Season 2  began  airing on December 7 ,  2005  .
Following a  देशभर   ढूंढें  earlier in the year , sixteen designers were  चुनी  as semi-finalists and brought to New York City in June , 2005 .
After the  पहला  challenge  ,   पुकारा  `` Road To The Runway  ''  , fourteen went on to compete as finalists .
The winning designer , Chloe Dao , received $  100,000  in seed money to  सहायता  launch her  अपना   लकीर   ,   a  2007  शनि  Sky roadster , a spread in  elle  magazine , and  a   mentorship  with  the  Banana Republic  डिज़ाइन  Team .
Winning alongside Dao  थी  her model  ,  Grace Kelsey  ,  who received the ELLE  पत्रिका   स्प्रेड  .
Michael Kors and  नीना  Garcia returned as judges for the second season .
The fourth judging seat rotated each week , based on the challenge .
Tim Gunn , fashion  कुर्सी  at Parsons The New School for Design  ,  returned as a mentor for the  designers  .
कारा   janx  later appeared in Project Runway : All Stars in 2012  ,  where she finished 7th out of  13  .
Andrae Gonzalo  ,  in the same year  ,  competed  in   the  second season of  the  All Stars edition  रखकर   10th  out  of  13  .
an  example of a Heraclius mule
In numismatics , a mule  is   a  coin  or   पदक  minted with obverse and reverse designs not normally seen on the  वही  piece .
These can  be  intentional or produced by error .
This  प्रकार  of  गलती   is  highly  sought  after , and examples can fetch steep prices  इससे  collectors  .
The earliest mules  हैं  found  among   प्राचीन  Greek  और  Roman  सिक्के  .
राय  is  विभाजित  between those who think  कि  they are accidental  ,  the result of  an  incorrect combination  of  a  नई   die  with one that had officially been withdrawn from use , or the work of coiners working with dies  चुराया  from an official mint , perhaps  at  a time when one of them should  have  been destroyed .
The name derives from the mule , the hybrid offspring of a  घोड़ा  and a  गधा  , due to  ऐसे  a coin  having   दो  sides  intended  for different coins  ,   much  as a mule has parents of two  अलग   प्रजाति  .
This page documents the tornadoes  और  tornado outbreaks  of  2010 .
The majority of tornadoes form in the U.S. ,  लकिन  they can occur almost anywhere under the  सही  conditions .
A lesser number occur  बाहर  the U.S.  ,  most notably in parts of neighboring southern Canada during the Northern  गोलार्ध  's summer season ,  लकिन  are also known in  दक्षिण  America , Europe  ,   एशिया  ,  और  Australia .
There were 1,531  tornadoes  reported  in  the United States in 2010  (  of which at least 1,266 were confirmed ) , with 45 confirmed fatalities .
Elsewhere  in   the   संसार  , 11 people were killed in tornadoes ,  छह  in Argentina , three  in  the Bahamas , one in  बांग्लादेश  , and one in Germany .
The  साल  was near average for tornadoes despite an extremely quiet early spring period , however such changed after a huge  upswing  starting in late April and a busy late spring and  गर्मियाँ   काल  .
The autumn  महीने  were slightly above average  .
A lymphocyte  is  a type of white  रक्त  cell in the vertebrate immune  प्रणाली  .
Under the  सूक्ष्मदर्शी  , lymphocytes can be divided into  विशाल  lymphocytes  और  small lymphocytes .
Large granular lymphocytes include natural killer cells  (  NK cells  )  .
छोटी  lymphocytes consist  of  T cells and B cells  .
Windows PowerShell  is  Microsoft 's task automation framework , consisting of a command-line shell  और  associated  एनक्रिप्शन   भाषा   निर्मित  on .NET Framework .
PowerShell provides full access  to   com  and WMI ,  enabling   प्रशासकों  to perform  प्रशासनिक  tasks on  दोनो   लोकल  and remote Windows  प्रणालियों  .
In PowerShell ,  प्रशासनिक   कार्य   हैं  generally performed  by   cmdlets  ( pronounced command-lets ) , which  हैं  specialized .NET classes implementing a particular operation .
Sets of cmdlets may be combined  साथ  in  स्क्रिप्ट  , executables ( which are standalone applications  )  , or  by  instantiating regular .NET  वर्ग  ( or WMI/COM Objects ) .
These work by accessing data in different data  स्टोर्स  , like the filesystem  or   रजिस्ट्री  ,  जिससे  are made available to the PowerShell runtime via Windows PowerShell providers .
Windows PowerShell  भी  provides a hosting API with which the Windows PowerShell runtime can be embedded inside other applications .
These  अनुप्रयोग  can  तब  use Windows  powershell   कार्यक्षमता  to implement certain operations , including those exposed  via   the   आलेखीय  interface  .
This capability has been used by Microsoft Exchange Server 2007  to  expose  इसके  management functionality  as   powershell  cmdlets  और  providers  और  implement the graphical management tools as PowerShell  होस्ट  which invoke the necessary cmdlets .
Other Microsoft  अनुप्रयोग  including  microsoft  SQL Server 2008 also expose their  प्रबन्धन   इंटरफ़ेस  via PowerShell cmdlets .
With PowerShell , graphical  interface-based  management applications on Windows are layered  on  top of Windows PowerShell .
A PowerShell scripting interface for Windows products  is  mandated by the Common  अभियान्त्रिकी   मापदण्ड  .
Windows PowerShell  शामिल   इसके  own extensive , console-based help  ,  similar to man pages in Unix shells , via  the  Get-Help cmdlet  .
Mary Poppins  is  a 1964 musical film starring Julie  एंड्रयूज  ,  लंड  Van Dyke , David Tomlinson , and  glynis  Johns  ,  produced  by  Walt Disney , and  आधारित  on  the  Mary Poppins books  श्रेणी  by P. L. Travers  .
The  फिल्मी  was directed by Robert Stevenson and written by Bill Walsh  और  Don DaGradi , with songs  by   the  Sherman Brothers .
It was  शॉट  at Walt Disney Studios  in  Burbank  ,   कैलिफ़ोर्निया   .
Julie Andrews  जीती   the  Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance as Mary Poppins and the film also  जीती   ऑस्कर  for Best Film Editing , Original  म्यूज़िक   स्कोर  , Best Song for `` Chim Chim Cher-ee '' and Best Visual Effects  ,  and received  a   कुल  of 13 nominations .
A story arc is  an  extended  or  continuing storyline in episodic storytelling media such  as   टेलीविज़न  ,  कॉमिक  books  ,   कॉमिक   स्ट्रिप्स  , boardgames , video games  ,  and in some cases , films .
On a  टेलीविज़न  program , for example , the story would unfold  over   अनेक  episodes .
In television , the use of  the  story arc is much  अधिक  common in dramas than in  comedies  , especially in soap operas .
Webcomics are more likely to use story arcs than  समाचारपत्र  comics ,  as  most web comics have readable archives online that  a  newcomer to  the   स्ट्रिप  can  पढ़ा  in  अनुक्रम  to understand what is going on .
Although story arcs  have  existed for decades  ,  the term `` story  चाप  '' was coined in 1988 in relation  to  the television series Wiseguy , and was quickly adapted for  अन्य   उपयोग  .
Many  अमरीकी  comic book series are now written in four or six-issue arcs  ,  within a  continuing  series .
Short story arcs are easier  to  package as trade paperbacks for resale , and more accessible to the casual reader  than  the never-ending  निरंतरता  that once characterised comics .
ब्लैक  Friday  is  the day following Thanksgiving Day in the United States , often regarded as the beginning  of  the Christmas  खरीदारी  season .
In recent years , most major retailers have opened extremely early and offered promotional sales to kick  बंद  the holiday shopping  ऋतु  ,  समान  to Boxing Day sales in many Commonwealth Nations .
Black Friday is not  an  official public holiday as such , but many  non-retail  employees and schools have both  थैंक्सगिविंग  and the  दिन  after off , followed by a weekend , thereby increasing the  क्रमांक  of potential shoppers .
It has routinely been the  व्यस्ततम  shopping day of the  साल  since 2005  ,   हालांकि  news reports , which at that time were inaccurate  ,  have described it as the  व्यस्ततम  shopping day of the year for  a  much longer period of time .
the  day 's name  originated  in  फिलाडेल्फिया  ,  जहाँ  it originally was used to describe the heavy and disruptive pedestrian and vehicle traffic which would  occur   on  the day after  थैंक्सगिविंग   .
Use of the term started before 1961 and began to see broader use outside  फिलाडेल्फिया  around 1975  .
Later an alternative explanation began to be offered : that `` Black Friday  ''  indicates the point  at  which retailers begin  to  turn  a  profit , or are ``  ''   .
For  अनेक  years , it was common for retailers to open  at  6:00 a.m.  ,  but  in  the late 2000s  अनेक  had crept to  5:00  or  भी  4:00 .
इस  was  लिया  to  a   नई  extreme in 2011 , when several  रिटेलर  ( including Target ,  kohl  's , Macy  's   ,  Best Buy , and  bealls  ) opened  at  midnight  लिये  the first  समय  .
In  2012  , Walmart and several  अन्य   रिटेलर  announced  कि  they would open  सबसे  of their stores at 8:00 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day  (   मगर   in  states where  खोलने  on Thanksgiving is prohibited due to blue laws , such  as  Massachusetts where they still  खोली   around  midnight ) , prompting calls for a walkout among  कुछ   मजदूर  .
Black Friday shopping is  ज्ञात  for attracting aggressive crowds , with annual  रिपोर्ट्स  of assaults , shootings  ,   और   throngs   of  people trampling on other shoppers in an attempt  to  get the  बेहतरीन  deal  on  a product before supplies run out .
The Family That Preys is a 2008 American movie drama written , produced , and directed  by  Tyler  पेरी  .
The screenplay  focuses  on two families , one wealthy and  the  other working  क्लास   ,  whose  जीवनदान  are  intertwined  in both love and business  .
The movie is the second of four in  जिससे  Perry  's  signature character ,  madea  ,  करता  not make an appearance .
It is also the second Perry-directed film ( alongside Daddy  's  Little Girls ) that is not based on any of the filmmaker  's  stage plays .
Net 10 , Net  15  , Net 30 and Net 60 ( also Net 10 days , et  al  ) are forms of trade credit which specify that the  जाल  amount ( the total outstanding  on  the invoice )  is  expected to be paid in  पूरा  and received by the  विक्रेता  within 10  ,  15 , 30  or  60  दिनों   बाद   the  goods are dispatched or service is completed .
Net  30  or Net 60 terms  हैं  often coupled with a credit for early payment .
The word net  in  this sense means `` total after all  छूट   .   ''
It  originally  derives  इससे  the Latin nitere ( to shine ) and  nitidus  ( elegant  ,  trim ) , and more  recently  from the French net  (  sharp , neat , clean ) .
Roadtown , Tortola
The British West Indies were the islands in and  around  the  caribbean  that were part  of  the British Empire .
In 1912 , the British West Indies were divided into eight colonies :  the  Bahamas ,  बारबाडोस  , British Guiana ,  अंग्रेजों  Honduras , Jamaica  (  with its dependencies the  turks   और   caicos  Islands and the  केमन  Islands ) , Trinidad and Tobago , the Windward Islands and the  leeward  Islands  .
Between 1958 and  1962   ,  all  of  the  द्वीप  territories except  the  British  वर्जिन  Islands ,  the  Bahamas , British Honduras and British Guiana  यहूद   संगठित  into the West Indies Federation .
It  थी  hoped  कि  the Federation would become independent as a single nation , but it had  सीमित  powers , many practical problems , and a lack of popular support .
नतीजतन  , the West Indies Federation was dissolved .
Most of  the  territories  ,   सहित   सब  the larger ones , are now independent as separate countries ,  साथ  membership to many international forums such as the Organization of American States , the Association  of  Caribbean States , the  संसार   व्यापार  Organization , the United Nations , the Caribbean Community , the Commonwealth of Nations  और  the Caribbean Development  बैंको  among others .
the  remainder are British overseas territories  .
All the former nations of the British West  इंडीज  , except the Commonwealth of Dominica ,  गुयाना  and Trinidad and Tobago , are  राष्ट्रमंडल  Realms .
The term is still used for British Overseas Territories in  the  Caribbean , such as  the  Cayman Islands .
The remaining British  वेस्ट  Indies
`` What  a   अद्भुत   संसार  ''  is  a  सोंग  written by  bob  Thiele ( as `` George Douglas  ''   )  and George David Weiss .
It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong and released as a  सिंगल  in 1967 .
Thiele  और  Weiss were both  prominent  in the music world ( Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a  composer/performer  ) .
आर्मस्ट्रांग  's recording was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999 .
the  publishing for this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music Group , Carlin Music Corp. , and Bug Music  ,  Inc .
Inauguration Day 2009  on   the  west  कदम  of the  u.S.  Capitol .
President  जार्ज  W.  बुश  and First Lady Laura Bush lead the inaugural parade down Pennsylvania Avenue to  the  White House , 2005
The inauguration of the president  of  the United States is  a  ceremonial event  अंकन  the  शुरुआत  of a new four-year term of a  अध्यक्ष  of the  संयुक्त  States .
The day a presidential  उद्घाटन  occurs is known as  ``   उद्घाटन  Day  ''  and occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ) .
( Prior to the Twentieth Amendment , the date  थी  March 4 , the day  of  the year on which the Constitution of the United States first  took   प्रभाव  in 1789 ;  the  last inauguration to take place on the older  तिथि  was  फ्रैंकलिन  D. Roosevelt 's first one on  कूच   4  ,  1933  . )
The most  हाल  public  अध्यक्षीय  inauguration ceremony ,  the  swearing  in  of President  बराक  Obama to begin  उसके  second four-year  पद   in  office , took  प्लेस  on Monday , January  21  ,  2013  .
The only inauguration element mandated by the United States Constitution is that  the  president make  an  oath or affirmation  पहले  that person can `` enter on the Execution  ''  of  the  office of  the  presidency .
however  ,  over  the years  ,  various traditions have arisen that have expanded the inauguration from a  सरल  oath-taking ceremony  to   a  day-long event  ,  including parades , speeches  ,  and balls .
From the presidency of Andrew  जैक्सन  through that  of  Jimmy Carter ,  the  primary Inauguration Day ceremony  took  place on the Capitol 's East Portico  .
चूंकि  the 1981 inauguration of Ronald Reagan , the ceremony has been held at the  कैपिटल  's West Front .
The inaugurations  of  William Howard Taft in 1909 and  reagan  in 1985  यहूद   स्थानांतरित  indoors  at  the Capitol due  to  cold weather .
The War  of  1812 and  संसार  War  ii  caused two inaugurations to be held at  अन्य  locations in Washington ,  d.c  .
When George Washington was inaugurated ,  the   शपथ  was administered  by  Robert Livingston , Chancellor of New York State , in 1789 , and by William Cushing , Associate Justice of the Supreme Court , in 1793 .
चूंकि   मुख्य   इंसाफ  Oliver Ellsworth swore in President John  एडम्स  , no chief justice has missed an Inauguration Day .
When Inauguration Day has  गिरे  on a Sunday , the  मुख्य  justice  रै  administered the oath to the president on the Sunday privately and then again the next day publicly .
When a new  अध्यक्ष  takes over mid-term due to the death or resignation of a president  ,  the  शपथ   of  office is administered but formal , public inauguration events have  नहीं  been held  .
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta (  ;  born March 28 ,  1986  ) , known by  उसके  stage name Lady Gaga , is an American singer , songwriter , record producer , dancer , activist , businesswoman ,  फ़ैशन  designer , actress and  लोकसेवक  .
Born and raised in New York City  ,  she primarily studied at  the  Convent of  the  Sacred Heart  और  briefly attended New York University 's Tisch School of the Arts before withdrawing to focus on her musical  करियर  .
She soon began performing in  the  rock music scene of  मैनहटन  's Lower East  पक्ष  .
By  the  end of 2007  ,  record  कार्यपालिका   और  producer Vincent  हर्बर्ट  signed  उसके  to his  लेबल  Streamline Records , an  imprint  of Interscope  रिकॉर्ड  .
Initially working as a songwriter at Interscope Records , her vocal abilities captured the attention of recording artist Akon , who also signed her  to   kon  Live  वितरण  , his own label  अंतर्गत   interscope  .
Lady Gaga  आए   to  prominence as  a  recording artist following the release  of  her debut album , The Fame  (  2008 ) , which was a critical and commercial success that topped charts  around  the world and included the international number-one singles `` Just Dance `` and `` Poker Face `` .
After embarking on  the  The Fame  बॉल  Tour , she followed the album with  the  Fame Monster ( 2009 )  ,  which  शाखित  the worldwide hit singles `` Bad  रोमांस  `` , `` Telephone  ``   ,   और   ``  Alejandro `` .
The Fame Monsters success allowed  उसके  to  embark  on the  eighteen-month   long  Monster Ball  दौरे  ,  जिससे  later  became   एक   of  the  highest-grossing   कॉन्सर्ट  tours of all time .
Her most recent album  ,   born  This Way  (  2011 ) , topped  the  charts of most major  बाज़ार  and  उत्पन्न  more international chart-topping singles  ,   सहित  `` Born This Way `` ,  ``  Judas `` , and `` The Edge of  महिमा  `` .
Influenced  by  Britney Spears  ,   दाउद  Bowie ,  माइकल  Jackson ,  मैडोना  , and Queen ,  महिला   गागा   is  recognized for her flamboyant , diverse and outré contributions  to  the music industry through  उसके  fashion , performances  और  music videos .
as   of  October 2011 , she has sold an estimated  23  million albums and 64 million  singles  worldwide and her  singles   हैं  some  of   the  best-selling worldwide  .
उसके   उपलब्धियाँ  include five Grammy Awards and 13 MTV Video Music Awards .
Lady Gaga has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's  कलाकारों  of the Year ( scoring  the  definitive title  in  2010 ) ,  क्रमित  fourth in VH1 's list of 100 Greatest Women in Music , is the sixth best selling digital singles artist in US according to RIAA , is  regularly  placed on  सूचियाँ  composed by Forbes magazine and was named one of the most influential  लोगों  in the world by Time magazine .
Besides her musical career  ,  she involves  herself  with  humanitarian  causes and LGBT activism  .
McKethan Stadium  घर  of Gator baseball
A  चित्र  of the 1924 Baseball team
The Florida Gators  बेसबॉल  team represents the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Florida in the sport of  बेसबॉल   .
The Florida Gators compete in Division I of the National  कॉलेजिएट   एथलेटिक्स  Association ( NCAA )  ,  and the Eastern Division of  the   southeastern  Conference ( SEC ) .
They play their home games in Alfred A. McKethan Stadium  on  the university  's  Gainesville , Florida campus , and are currently  led  by head coach Kevin O'Sullivan  .
In  the   ninety-eight   ऋतु  history of  the  Gators baseball program  ,  the  टोली  has won twelve SEC championships and has appeared in  आठ  College World Series tournaments .
`` Electioneering '' redirects here .
लिये  the Radiohead song , see OK  कंप्यूटर  .
Presidential campaign button  लिये  Abraham Lincoln  ,  1860 .
The reverse side of the button shows a portrait  of  his running mate Hannibal Hamlin .
a  political  अभियान  is an organized effort  जिससे  seeks to influence the decision making process within a specific group .
In democracies , political campaigns often  refer  to  चुनावी  campaigns , wherein representatives  हैं  chosen or  referendums  are decided  .
In modern politics , the most high  प्रोफ़ाइल  political campaigns are focused on candidates for head of state or head of government , often a President or Prime Minister .
Elizabeth Cady  stanton  and  उसके  daughter , Harriot
Elizabeth Cady  stanton   (  November 12  ,  1815 – October 26  ,  1902 ) was  an  American social  activist  ,  abolitionist  , and leading figure of the early women 's rights movement  .
Her Declaration of Sentiments , presented at the first women 's rights  सम्मेलन  held in 1848 in  seneca  Falls , New York , is often  credited  with initiating the first organized  महिलाओं   's  rights and  महिलाओं  's suffrage movements in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  .
Before Stanton narrowed her political focus almost exclusively to women 's rights , she was an  क्रियाशील  abolitionist  साथ  with  उसके  husband , Henry Brewster Stanton  और  cousin , Gerrit Smith .
Unlike many of those involved  in  the  महिलाओं   's  rights movement , Stanton  addressed  various issues  pertaining  to women beyond  मतदान  rights .
Her concerns included  महिलाओं  's parental and custody  अधिकारों  , property rights , employment and income rights  ,  divorce , the economic  स्वास्थ्य  of the family , and birth control .
She  थी  also an outspoken supporter of the 19th-century  temperance  movement .
After the American Civil War , Stanton  's  commitment  to  female suffrage caused a schism in the women 's  अधिकारों  movement when  वो  , together  साथ  Susan  B.  Anthony ,  अस्वीकृत  to support passage of  the  Fourteenth and  पंद्रहवीं  Amendments  to  the United States Constitution .
She opposed  giving  added legal protection and  मतदान  rights to African American men while women ,  ब्लैक   और  white , were denied those same rights .
Her position on  इस   समस्या  , together with her thoughts on organized Christianity and  महिलाओं   's   मुद्दे  beyond voting rights , led to  the  formation of two separate women 's rights organizations that  यहूद   आखिरकार  rejoined , with Stanton as  अध्यक्ष  of the  संयुक्त  organization ,  लगभग   बीस  years after her  ब्रेक  from the original women 's  suffrage  movement .
Stanton died in 1902 having authored both The Woman 's  बाइबल   और  her autobiography , along with many articles and pamphlets concerning female suffrage  और  women 's rights .
My  मेला  Lady is a musical based upon  जार्ज  Bernard Shaw 's Pygmalion and  साथ  book  और  lyrics by  एलन  Jay Lerner and  म्यूज़िक  by Frederick Loewe .
The story  चिंताएं  Eliza  doolittle  , a Cockney  पुष्प  girl who  takes  speech lessons from professor  हेनरी   हिगिंस  , a  phoneticist  ,  so  that she may  pass  as a well-born lady .
The  musical  's 1956  ब्रॉडवे   उत्पादन  was a hit  ,  setting what  थी  then the  रिकार्ड  for the longest  चलाएं  of any major musical theatre production in  इतिहास   .
It was followed by a hit London production , a popular film version , and numerous revivals  .
It has been called  ``  the perfect  musical   ''  .
Deregulation is the  अधिनियम   or  process of  निकालना   or  reducing state  regulations  .
It is therefore opposite of regulation , which refers to  the  process of the government  regulating  certain activities  .
The Boston  bruins  Radio Network is  a  25-station ( 17 A.M. , 8 F.M . plus 2 F.M . translators )  सीबीएस   रेडियो  network which  carries  live game broadcasts of  the  Boston  bruins   .
the   संजाल  's flagship  स्टेशन  is  wbz-fm   /98.5-   बोस्टन  , Massachusetts .
डेव  Goucher announces play-by-play .
bob  Beers provides  रंग  commentary .
This  आलेख   is  about the short story  .
For the  कविता   by  Sara Teasdale , see  वहीँ  Will Come Soft  rains  .
`` There Will Come Soft  rains  '' is a short story by science fiction author Ray  bradbury  which was first published  in   the  May 6  ,  1950 issue of Collier 's .
बाद   कि  same year the story was included in Bradbury 's The Martian Chronicles ( 1950 )  .
With over 1.2 billion people  ,  Han Chinese is  the  largest  जातीय  group  in  the world  .
Pashtun people of the Pashtunistan region , which sits in  an  area between south  of  the Hindu  कुश  in Afghanistan  और  the Indus  नदी   in  Pakistan .
They number  around  50 million .
The Korowai people of Papua numbered just around 3,000 people  ,  and were uncontacted until the  1970s  .
Ethnicity or ethnic group is  a   socially   पारिभाषित  category based on  आम  culture or nationality  .
Ethnicity  can  , but does not have to  ,   शामिल  common ancestry , appearance , cuisine , dressing style , heritage ,  इतिहास  , language or dialect , religion , symbols , traditions  ,   or  other cultural factor .
Ethnic identity is constantly reinforced through common characteristics which set  the  group apart from other groups .
the   19.9   mw  Gemasolar solar plant in Spain  सुविधाएँ  15 hours of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat from the sun , has been  harnessed  by humans  चूंकि   प्राचीन  times  using   a   दायरा  of ever-evolving  technologies  .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating ,  सौर   photovoltaics  , solar thermal electricity  ,   सौर  architecture and artificial photosynthesis ,  जिससे  can make considerable contributions  to  solving  कुछ  of the most urgent energy problems the world now  चेहरों  .
Solar technologies  हैं   broadly  characterized as either passive solar or active  सौर   depending  on the way they  कैप्चर  , convert and distribute solar energy  .
Active solar  तकनीकों  include the use  of  photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to  दोहन   the  energy  .
passive  solar techniques include orienting a  भवन  to the  सूर्य  , selecting  सामग्री   साथ  favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties , and designing spaces that naturally circulate  एयर  .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable ,  inexhaustible  and clean solar energy technologies will have huge  longer-term   लाभ  .
It will  बढ़ाएँ  countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible and mostly import-independent  संसाधन  , enhance  स्थिरता  , reduce pollution , lower the  लागत  of  mitigating   जलवायु  change , and keep fossil fuel  कीमतें  lower than otherwise .
These advantages are global .
hence  the additional costs of  the  incentives for early  deployment  should be considered learning investments ;  वे  must be wisely spent and need to  be  widely shared '' .
The classical Latin alphabet or Roman  वर्णमाला  evolved from a western variety of  the  Greek alphabet called the  cumaean   वर्णमाला  , which  थी  adopted and  परिवर्धित  by  the  Etruscans  जो  ruled  जल्दी  Rome .
the   etruscan  alphabet was  in   फेरे  adopted and further  परिवर्धित  by the ancient Romans to  लिखें  the Latin  भाषा   .
During  the  Middle Ages , the Latin alphabet was  adapted   to  Romance languages , direct descendants of Latin ,  as  well as to Celtic , Germanic ,  बाल्टिक  , and some Slavic languages .
साथ   the   आयु   of  colonialism and Christian evangelism , the  लैटिन  script was spread overseas  ,  and applied to indigenous American , Australian  ,  Austronesian , Austroasiatic  ,  and African languages .
अधिक   recently  , linguists have  भी  tended to prefer the Latin  स्क्रिप्ट  or the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Phonetic  वर्णमाला  ( itself largely based on Latin script ) when transcribing or creating written standards for non-European languages , such as the African  सन्दर्भ  alphabet .
The term Latin alphabet may refer to  either  the alphabet used  to  write Latin ( as described in this article  )  , or  अन्य  alphabets  आधारित  on  the  Latin script , which  is  the  मौलिक  set of letters common to the various alphabets  descended  from the  शास्त्रीय  Latin one , such as the English alphabet .
These Latin-derived alphabets may discard  अक्षर  , like the  rotokas  alphabet , or  add   नई  letters , like the Danish and Norwegian alphabet  .
Letter shapes have  बदला  over the centuries , including the creation for Medieval  लैटिन   of  lower case forms which  किया  not exist in the Classical period .
The assassination of  संयुक्त  States President Abraham  lincoln  took  प्लेस  on Good Friday ,  अप्रैल  14 , 1865 , as the American Civil  युद्ध   थी  drawing to a close .
The assassination occurred five days after  the  commander  of  the Confederate Army  of   उत्तरी   वर्जिनिया  , General Robert E. Lee  ,  surrendered to  लेफ्टिनेंट  General  ulysses  S. Grant and the Union Army  of  the Potomac .
Lincoln was the first American president to be assassinated , though an unsuccessful  attempt   था   महरूम   बना  on Andrew Jackson 30  सालो   पहले  in 1835 .
The assassination was planned and  carried  out by the well-known stage actor John Wilkes Booth , as part of  a  larger conspiracy in a bid to  revive  the Confederate cause .
Booth 's co-conspirators were Lewis Powell and David  herold  , who were assigned to kill Secretary of State William H. Seward , and George Atzerodt  जो   थी  to kill Vice President Andrew Johnson .
By simultaneously eliminating the top  तीन   लोगों  in  the  administration , Booth and his co-conspirators hoped to sever the continuity  of  the United States government .
lincoln   थी   शॉट   जबकि  watching  the  play Our  अमरीकी  Cousin with  उसके  wife Mary Todd Lincoln at  घाट  's Theatre  in  Washington  ,  D.C.  on  the night  of  April 14  ,  1865 .
He died early the next morning .
The rest of the conspirators ' plot failed ; Powell only managed to  घाव  Seward , while Atzerodt ,  जॉनसन  's would-be assassin , lost  उसके  nerve  और  fled Washington  .
add-on  might mean:
Plug-in  (  computing  )  , a piece of software which enhances  another  software application  और  usually can  नहीं   be  run  independently
Browser extension , which  modifies   the  interface  and/or  behavior of web  browsers
Add-on (  मोज़िला  )  ,  a piece of software  कि   enhances  and  customizes  Mozilla-based applications
Add-ons  लिये  Firefox  (  addons.mozilla.org ) , the official Mozilla Foundation web  साईट  which serves as a repository of add-ons for Mozilla-based applications
परिधीय   ,   an  optional computer hardware component that significantly supplements or enhances the functionality of the original unit
वीडियो  game accessory , a piece of hardware  प्रयुक्त  in conjunction with  a  video game console for playing video games
Club level seating is a special section of seating in modern sports stadiums .
The Club  स्तर  is usually located  towards  the  मध्य   of  the  स्टेज   of  seating sections , above the lower deck but below  the  upper deck  .
They are usually right next  to  the  लक्ज़री  Boxes , either right above , right  नीचे  , or sandwiched between two  स्तर  of Luxury  बाक्स   .
Club Level seating is considered as higher class than sitting anywhere else in the arena  ,  but  निम्नतर  class compared to the Luxury Boxes  .
Unlike the  लक्ज़री  Boxes , most club  स्तर  do  नहीं  wrap entirely around  the  arena .
कुछ  club levels stop at a  निश्चित  point  ,   giving   रास्ता  to  an   विस्तार   of  the Mezzanine  ,  while others  दे   रास्ता  to lower class Luxury Boxes ( such as `` Party Suites '' ) .
A notable exception to this is Emirates Stadium in London , which has a complete tier of club seating .
Club Levels allow  प्रशंसक  multiple levels of entertainment  .
Club Level seating  is  open to the  तत्व  , as opposed to  the  entirely enclosed luxury boxes ,  जिससे   देता  more of an outdoors impression at roofless and open-roof stadiums and arenas .
Club Level seating is normally bought  on  a contract basis  to   allow  for maximum profit  on  the part of the stadium .
the   क्लबों  Level provides  प्रशंसक  with special access to an indoor part  of   the  arena exclusive to  प्रशंसक  with  खास   टिकटें  .
These  क्षेत्रों  are air conditioned and allow  अभिगम  to special restaurants , merchandise stands , and lounge areas of the stadium that  हैं  not otherwise available  .
Concession stands and vendors on the Club Level also often offer different menus  than  in other stands to give more of  a  special feel to the Club .
These areas are closed off to the rest of the stadium , and  वे  usually can only be  पहुँचा  through the exclusive  ,   निजी  club entrances .
Sophia  लोरेन  ( ; born Sofia Villani Scicolone ;  20  September  1934   )   is   an  Italian actress  .
Loren is widely  पहचाना  as Italy 's most renowned and honored  अभिनेत्री  .
She  थी   the  first  अभिनेत्री  of the talkie era to win an Academy Award for a non-English-speaking performance , for her portrayal of Cesira in Vittorio De Sica  's  Two Women .
Her  अन्य  awards include a  ग्रैमी  Award , five special Golden Globes , a BAFTA Award and a  लॉरेल  Award  .
In 1995 she  प्राप्त  the Cecil B. DeMille Award for lifetime  उपलब्धियाँ  , one of many such awards .
उसके  films include : Houseboat (  1958  ) ,  el   सीआईडी  ( 1961 ) ,  कल  ,  आज  and Tomorrow ( 1963 )  ,  Marriage Italian-Style  (  1964 )  ,  and A Special Day  (  1977  )  .
in   बाद  years she has appeared in American blockbusters such as Grumpier Old Men ( 1995 )  ,  and Nine ( 2009 ) .
In 1994 she  स्ट्रक्चर  in Robert Altman 's  prêt-à-porter  , which earned her a Golden  ग्लोब  nomination the same year .
She has also achieved critical and commercial success in TV movies such  as  Courage ( 1986 ) .
Deaths for  self-inflicted  injuries  प्रति  100,000 inhabitants in 2004  .
Incidence  of  suicide is underreported  due  to both religious and social pressures ,  और   संभवतः  completely unreported in some areas .
nevertheless  , from  reported   मामले  ,  निश्चित   रुझान   हैं  apparent .
Since the data  is  skewed , comparing  आत्महत्या  rates between nations is statistically unsound .
The trends themselves are not the  कारण  , but may  be   indicative  of  a  root cause .
The Oprah  विनफ्रे   नेतृत्व  Academy  लिये  Girls  -  South Africa is a female boarding school founded in  जनवरी   2007  and  स्तिथ  in Henley on Klip near Meyerton , south  of  Johannesburg , South Africa .
The  अकादमी  was founded by Oprah Winfrey  साथ   the  goal  of  providing educational and leadership opportunities for academically  gifted   लड़कियों  from impoverished backgrounds .
Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls
Digicel is a mobile phone network provider  ऑपरेटिंग  in  31  markets  आरपार  the Caribbean , Central America , and Oceania  regions  .
The company is owned by Irishman  डेनिस   o'brien   ,  is incorporated in Bermuda , and based in Jamaica .
It has about 13 million wireless users .
As  of  2012 , Digicel  's  markets comprise : Anguilla  ,  Antigua and  बारबूडा   ,   अरूबा   ,  Barbados ,  बरमूडा  , Bonaire ,  the  British Virgin  आइलैंड्स  , the Cayman Islands , Curacao , Dominica  ,  El Salvador , Fiji , French Guiana , Grenada , Guadeloupe , Guyana , Haiti , Jamaica , Martinique , Nauru ,  पनामा   ,  Papua New Guinea , Samoa , Saint Kitts and Nevis , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Suriname , Tonga  ,  Trinidad & Tobago ,  turks  and Caicos , and Vanuatu  .
This is a list of records of the  फीफा  World Cup and  इसके  qualification  मिलान  .
Hospital Emergency Codes are  प्रयुक्त  in  अस्पताल   विश्वव्यापी  to alert staff to  विभिन्न   emergencies  .
The use  of  codes is intended to convey  अनिवार्य  information quickly  और  with  minimal   गलतफहमी  to staff , while preventing stress and  दहशत  among visitors to the hospital  .
These codes may  be  posted on placards  throughout  the hospital , or printed on employee  पहचान  badges for ready  सन्दर्भ  .
Back  of  a hospital ID badge showing disaster codes  .
Hospital emergency codes may denote  अलग  events  at  different hospitals , including  आसपास  ones .
Because many physicians work at more  than   एक  facility , this may lead to confusion in emergencies , so uniform systems have been  प्रस्तावित   .
The route of the Eifel aqueduct , with its average slope  .
The Eifel  जलसेतु   थी  one of  the  longest aqueducts of the  रोमन   साम्राज्य  .
The aqueduct , constructed in AD 80 , carried water some from the hilly Eifel region  of  what is  अभी   जर्मनी  to  the   प्राचीन  city of Colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium  (   present-day   कोलोन   )  .
If  the  auxiliary spurs to additional springs  हैं   शामिल  , the length was .
the  construction was almost  entirely  below ground , and  the  flow  of  the water  थी  produced entirely by  गम्भीरता  .
a  few bridges , including one up to in length , were needed to pass  over  valleys .
Unlike some of  the  other  प्रसिद्ध  Roman aqueducts , the  eifel  aqueduct was specifically designed  to  minimize  the  above-ground portion to protect it from damage and freezing .
in  chemistry  ,  a disulfide bond ( Br.E .  disulphide  bond )  is  a covalent  बंध  , usually derived by the coupling of two thiol groups .
The linkage is also called an  ss-bond  or  disulfide   सेतु   .
The overall connectivity  is  therefore R-S-S-R .
The terminology is  widely  used in biochemistry .
in  formal  शर्तें  , the connection is  a  persulfide , in analogy to its congener  ,  peroxide ( R-O-O-R ) ,  लकिन   इस  terminology  is   अस्पष्ट   और  is no longer used ( except in  सन्दर्भ  to R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H compounds  )  .
Formal depiction of disulfide bond formation as an oxidation .
Westminster Abbey  is  used for the  राजतिलक  of  अंग्रेजों  monarchs
Religion in the United  किंगडम  and in the countries that preceded it , has been dominated , for over 1,400  सालो   ,   by  various forms of Christianity .
According to  कुछ   सर्वेक्षण  , a majority of  नागरिकों  still identify with Christianity , although  नियमित   गिरिजाघर  attendance has  गिरे  dramatically since the middle of the  20th  century , and immigration and demographic change have contributed to  the  growth of  अन्य   faiths   .
Religious affiliations of UK citizens are  अंकित  by regular  सर्वेक्षण  , the  चार   प्रमुख  ones being the UK Census , the Labour  फ़ोर्स  Survey , the British Social  attitudes  survey and  the  European  सोशल  Survey .
According to the 2001 UK census ,  christianity   is  the major  धर्म   ,  followed by Islam  ,  Hinduism , Sikhism , Judaism  और  Buddhism in terms of  क्रमांक  of adherents .
This  ,  and the relatively  विशाल  number of individuals with nominal or  no  religious affiliations has led commentators  to  variously  describe   the  United Kingdom  as  a multi-faith , secularised , or  post-christian  society .
the  United Kingdom was formed by the union of previously independent countries from 1707 , and consequently most of  the   largest  religious groups do not have UK-wide  organisational  structures .
While some groups have separate structures for the individual  देशों  of the United Kingdom , others may have a single structure covering England and Wales or Great Britain .
similarly  , due to the relatively recent  सृष्टि  of Northern Ireland in 1921 , most major  धार्मिक  groups  in  Northern Ireland are organised on an all-Ireland basis .
The 1967 Newark riots were a major civil disturbance that occurred in the city of Newark ,  नई   जर्सी  between  जुलाई  12 and July 17 , 1967 .
The six days of rioting , looting , and  विनाश  left 26 dead  और   सैंकड़ों  injured .
in  United  राज्य  college  एथलेटिक्स  , redshirt is a  विलंब  or suspension of  an  athlete 's participation in order to  lengthen   उसके  or her period  of  eligibility .
Typically , a student 's athletic eligibility in a given  खेल  is four seasons , a  क्रमांक  derived from the four  सालो  of academic classes that  हैं   सामान्यतः  required to  obtain  a  स्नातक   's  degree at  an  American college or university  .
However , a student  खिलाड़ी  may be offered the opportunity to redshirt for up to  दो  years , which allows the athlete to spread  those  four years of eligibility over five  ,  or sometimes six years .
In a redshirt year , a student  खिलाड़ी  may attend  वर्ग   at   the  college or  विश्वविद्यालयों   ,  practice with an athletic team , and  पोशाक  for  खेल  but he or  वो  may not compete  दौरान   the  game .
Using this mechanism , a  छात्र   खिलाड़ी  has up to five academic years to use the four years of eligibility ,  यूँ  becoming a fifth-year senior  .
The term is used as  a  verb ,  संज्ञा  ,  और  adjective .
For example , a  कोच  may choose to redshirt a  खिलाड़ी  who is then  referred  to  as  a redshirt freshman or simply  a  redshirt .
The opposite of this  is  a ``  सच्चा   freshman  . ''
World War  i  (  wwi  ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted  जबतक  11  नवम्बर  1918  .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from  इसके  occurrence  जबतक  the start of World War II  in  1939 , and the First World War  or  World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which  यहूद   समवेत  in  दो  opposing alliances :  the  Allies (  आधारित  on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom  ,  France and Russia ) and the Central  शक्तियां  ( originally the Triple Alliance of  जर्मनी  ,  austria-hungary  and Italy ;  लकिन  , as  austria–hungary   था  taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did  नहीं   डालें  into the war ) .
These alliances  यहूद  both reorganised and expanded  as  more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and  the  United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and  बुल्गारिया   the  Central  शक्तियां   .
Ultimately , more than 70 million  सैन्य  personnel  ,  including 60 million Europeans  ,  were mobilised in  एक  of the largest wars  in  history  .
अधिक  than 9 million combatants were killed , largely  क्युकी  of technological advancements that  led   to   विशाल  increases in the lethality of  हथियार  without corresponding improvements  in  protection  or  mobility .
It was the fifth-  deadliest  conflict in  संसार   इतिहास  ,  subsequently  paving the way for various  राजनैतिक  changes , such  as  revolutions in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence  of  imperialism in the  विदेशी  policies of the great powers of  यूरोपीय  .
More immediately , the  हत्या  of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914  by  Yugoslav  राष्ट्रवादी  Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently  वितरित  an ultimatum to  the  Kingdom of Serbia  .
Several alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked .
भीतर  weeks  ,  the major powers were at war and , via their colonies , the conflict soon spread around the world  .
on   28  July , the  austro-hungarians   fired  the first shots  of  the war  as  preparation  लिये   the  invasion of  सर्बिया   .
While the Russians mobilised  ,  the Germans invaded  न्यूट्रल  Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's  घोषणा  of war  विरूद्ध  Germany .
बाद  the  जर्मनी  march on Paris was brought to  a  halt—the  so-called  Miracle of the Marne —the Western  सामने  settled into a  स्थिर  battle of attrition with a trench line  कि  changed little  जबतक  1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army  थी   कामयाब  against the  austro-hungarians  , but was stopped  in  its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war , opening up fronts in the  काकेशस  , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
इटली  and Bulgaria  गई  to war in  1915  and Romania  in  1916 .
In Russia ,  the  tsar 's  सरकारी  collapsed  in  March 1917 and  a  subsequent revolution  in  November brought the Russians to terms with the  सेंट्रल  Powers  .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives  और  American  शक्तियां  began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with revolutionaries  ,  agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
the  war  ended  in  विजय  for the Allies  .
Events on the home  fronts  were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as the  भागीदार  tried  to  mobilize their  जनशक्ति  and economic resources to fight  a   कुल   युद्ध  .
By the  समाप्त   of  the war  ,  four  प्रमुख  imperial  powers—the  German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states  of  the former  दो  lost a great amount of territory , while  the  latter two were dismantled entirely .
the  map of central  यूरोपीय   थी  redrawn into several  छोटी  states .
the   लीग  of  राष्ट्र  was formed in the hope  of  preventing another such  विरोध  .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires ,  the   परखना  of Germany 's defeat  और   समस्याएं  with  the  Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be  कारकों   contributing  to  संसार   युद्ध  II .
मैप   of  countries that declared themselves to be socialist states  अंतर्गत  the  marxist–leninist  or Maoist  परिभाषा   -  that is to  कह  , `` Communist states  ''  - between 1979 and 1983 .
This period marked the greatest territorial extent of Communist states .
a  communist state is  a  state where the means of production are collectively owned by  the  society  .
It has a form  of  government characterized by  single-party  rule or dominant-party  नियम  of a communist party ( referred as Dictatorship of the Proletariat by  इसके  proponents ) and  a  professed allegiance to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology  as  the guiding  principle  of the state .
Technically  ,  ``  कम्युनिस्ट  state '' is a contradictio in terminis as  a  communist society as defined by both Marxists and anarcho-communists  is  in principle stateless  .
From this  परिप्रेक्ष्य  ,  the  term Marxist-Leninist state is more appropriate .
historically   ,  a `` communist state  ''  referred to a  प्रणाली  where public ownership of  सब   or  most means  of  production by the Communist party  -run  state is deemed necessary to further the  रूचि  of the working class ; today , a communist state can also , for instance , refer to contemporary China and Vietnam  ,  where a Communist Party-run state exists  alongside   a  mixed economy .
According to Marxist–Leninists , the  राज्य  is a tool  in  the  हैंड्स  of the ruling class , which  in  a socialist society is the working  क्लास  , so a socialist state is ,  according   to  Leninists ,  a  state of the working class .
In  अभ्यास  , communist states do not actually  refer  to themselves as  ऐसे  .
They do this not to disguise  the  fact that the ruling party is communist , but rather  क्युकी   वे  do  नहीं  consider  themselves  to  be  a communist society  at  present .
बजाय  ,  वे  constitutionally identify themselves as socialist states or workers  '  states .
The primary goal of these states , which also  explains  their official name , is to  मार्गदर्शिका  their respective countries in the process of  भवन  socialism ,  ultimately  leading to communism .
Communist  राज्य  may have several legal political parties ,  लकिन  the communist  पार्टी  is  प्रायः  granted a special or dominant role in government , often by statute or under the constitution .
Consequently , the  संस्थानों  of the state and of the communist party become intimately entwined  ,  such as in the  विकास  of  समानांतर  institutions .
in  the 20th century  ,   सबसे   कम्युनिस्ट  states adopted planned  economies  .
However , there were exceptions : The Soviet  संघ  during the 1920s and late 1980s and Yugoslavia after World  युद्ध  II allowed limited  बाज़ार   और  a  उपाधि  of  कार्यकर्ता  self-management , while China , Vietnam and Laos introduced far-reaching  मार्केट  reforms after the 1980s .
In the 21st century  ,   चीन  and Vietnam have allowed a mixed economy to develop .
the  fundamental concepts  of  communist states often diverge from the original socio-economic  विचारधाराओं  from which they  develop  .
as  a result , many adherents of  ये  ideologies often oppose  the  political systems commonly  संबद्ध  with  ये  states .
For  उदाहरण  , dissenting communists such  as   trotskyists  were often  opposed  to the communist states of the 20th century ,  claiming  either that  वे  had nothing to do with `` real '' communism or that the ideology of such states had reached a  पाइंट  of  अटल  corruption .
माइकल  Fred  फेल्प्स  II  (  born June 30 , 1985 ) is a retired American swimmer and the most decorated Olympian of all  समय  , with a total  of  22  medals   .
फेल्प्स  also holds the all-time records for Olympic gold medals ( 18 ,  दोगुना  the second  उच्चतम  record holders ) , Olympic gold  medals   in  individual events (  11  ) , and Olympic medals in individual events for  a  male  (  13 ) .
In  जीतना   आठ  gold medals  at   the   2008   बीजिंग  Games ,  फेल्प्स   took  the record for the  सबसे   first-place  finishes at any single Olympic Games  .
Five of  those   victories  were in  व्यक्तिगत  events , tying  the  single  खेल   रिकार्ड   .
In  the  2012  गर्मियाँ   ओलंपिक  in London  ,  Phelps won  चार  golds and two silver medals , making him the most  कामयाब   खिलाड़ी   of  the Games  लिये  the third Olympics in a row .
Phelps is the long course  संसार  recordholder in the  100-meter  butterfly , 200-meter butterfly and 400-meter  व्यक्तिगत  medley as well as  the  former long  कोर्स  world recordholder in the 200-meter freestyle and 200-meter individual medley .
he  has  जीती  a total of 71 medals in major international long-course competition ,  57   सुनहरा  , 11 silver , and  तीन  bronze spanning the Olympics , the World  ,   और  the Pan Pacific Championships .
Phelps 's  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  titles and record-breaking performances have  अर्जित  him the World  तैराक  of the  साल  Award seven times and American Swimmer of the Year Award nine times  as  well as the FINA Swimmer of  the  Year Award in 2012 .
उसके  unprecedented  ओलम्पिक  success in  2008  earned Phelps Sports Illustrated  पत्रिका  's  sportsman  of  the  Year award .
बाद  the  2008  Summer Olympics , Phelps  प्रारंभ  the Michael  फेल्प्स  Foundation , which focuses on growing  the  sport of swimming and  promoting   healthier   lifestyles  .
He expects to do  further   कार्य  with his foundation after  the  2012 Olympics , which he  रै  said will  be  his last  .
Lenovo  समूह  Limited  (  ) is a Chinese multinational computer hardware and electronics company with its headquarters in Beijing , China and Morrisville , North Carolina and its registered office in  हांग   काँग  , China .
Its products include personal computers , tablet computers , mobile  फोन  , workstations  ,   सर्वर  , electronic  भंडार   डिवाइस  , IT management software and smart  टेलीविज़न  .
लेनोवो  is the world 's  second-largest  PC vendor by 2012 unit  बिक्री   .
It markets  the  ThinkPad  लकीर  of notebook computers and the ThinkCentre line of desktops .
Lenovo  रै  operations in more  than  60 countries and sells its products in around  160  countries .
Lenovo was founded in  बीजिंग   in  1984  और  incorporated  in  Hong  काँग  in 1988 under its previous name , Legend .
लेनोवो  is listed  on  the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the Hang Seng China-Affiliated Corporations Index .
Slug is  a   आम  name for an  जाहिर  shell-less  स्थलीय  gastropod mollusk .
the   शब्द  `` slug '' is also often used  as   भाग  of the common name of any gastropod mollusc that has  no  shell , has a very reduced shell  ,   or  has only  a  small internal shell .
( This is in contrast  to  the common name  ``   घोंघा  `` , which is  लागू   to   gastropods  that have a coiled shell  कि  is large  पर्याप्त   कि  the  नरम  parts of the animal can retract fully into it . )
Slugs exist on land  और  in  the   समुद्र   ,  and there is even one genus of freshwater  slugs  , Acochlidium .
The unadorned word `` slug '' is  however  applied primarily to land slugs , whereas slugs  इससे  the sea or from  freshwater  are usually  referred   to  as `` sea  slugs  `` and `` freshwater slugs  ''  .
Land  gastropods  with a shell that is not quite vestigial , but is too  छोटी  to retract into (  जैसे  many in the family Urocyclidae ) , are known as semislugs .
the   विभिन्न  taxonomic families of slugs form part of several  काफी  different evolutionary  lineages  which  भी  include snails .
Thus , for example , the various families of  जमीन  slugs are not  बहुत  closely related to one another , despite a superficial similarity in  the   overall   देह  form .
The shell-less condition  रै  arisen many times independently during the evolutionary past , and thus the  श्रेणी  `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one  .
Slugs , like all other gastropods ,  undergo  torsion ( a 180° twisting of the  आतंरिक  organs  )   दौरान  development .
Internally , slug anatomy clearly  shows  the effects of this  रोटेशन   ,  but externally  the  bodies of land  slugs  appear to  be  more or less symmetrical , except for the  positioning   of  the pneumostome  ,  which is on one side of the animal , normally the  सही  hand  पक्ष   .
The soft  ,  slimy bodies of slugs  हैं  prone to desiccation , so land-living slugs are confined  to  moist  environments  and must retreat to damp hiding places when the weather is  शुष्क  .
The subsequent information in this article applies to land slugs .
is a Latin word that means `` thus '' or ,  in  writing ,  ``   it  was  यूँ  in the source material  ''  .
Sic may also refer to:
Sic , Cluj  ,  a  कम्यून  in Romania
sic  ,  the  regional  कोड  for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ) , styled as [ sic  ]  , stage name of Jennifer  मॉरिस   ,  a Canadian noise artist
Sic  (   बैंड  ) is a  आधुनिक  Hardcore/Thrash metal band  इससे  Torshavn  ,  the capital of the  फरो  Islands
`` ( sic )  ''  , a song by American band Slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC , the  आरंभिक  of Marco Simoncelli .
SIC as  an  acronym  may  stand for:
SiC , Silicon carbide , a  semiconducting  material ,  भी   प्रयुक्त  to make  धातुकर्म   टूल्स
sic  (  cyclecar  ) ( Società Italiana  cyclecars  )
Standard  औद्योगिक   वर्गीकरण   ,  a 20th-century U.S. system for  classifying   उद्योग
International Standard Industrial Classification  a   un   प्रणाली  for economic activities
Shetland Islands Council
the Swiss Interbank Clearing  प्रणाली
सैन  Isidro Club , an  अर्जेंटाइन   रग्बी   संघ  club
Standing Interpretation Committee ,  a  committee dedicated to the  निर्वचन  of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information criterion in the field of statistics
second-in-command   in  the  फ़ील्ड  of aviation
Sistema Interconectado Central power grid in Chile
sociedade  Independente de  comunicação  (  sic  )  ,   a  television channel in Portugal
समुद्र  Isle City  ,  New Jersey , a  तटीय  town in  the  United States
segmented  Integer  काउंटर   विधि  , a mode of operation in cryptography
sepang  International  सर्किट  , a high-end racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai International Circuit , a motor  रेसिंग  venue in  शंघाई   ,  China
Simplified instructional  कंप्यूटर  , a hypothetical computer used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ) , an  जल्दी  twentieth-century art  पत्रिका  produced by French  लेखक  Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College ,  a  two year Junior  कॉलेज  in Harrisburg , Illinois  ,  United States
Specific inductive capacity , abbreviated to SIC  ,   जिससे   is  more commonly known as the relative permittivity or  the  dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' College  ,  Riverview , a Jesuit school  in  Sydney , Australia
Imperial Standard of Napoleon I
Napoleon  बोनापार्ट  ( , ; 15 August 1769 –  5  May 1821  )  was a French military and political leader who rose to prominence during the latter stages of the French Revolution and its associated wars in Europe .
As  नेपोलियन  I , he was Emperor of  the  French from 1804 to 1815 .
His legal  सुधार   ,  the Napoleonic Code ,  रै  been a major influence on many civil law jurisdictions worldwide  ,  but he  is  best remembered for his  भूमिका  in the wars  led  against France by a series of coalitions , the so-called  napoleonic  Wars .
He established  आधिपत्य  over most of continental Europe and sought to  स्प्रेड   the  ideals of the French Revolution  ,  while consolidating an imperial monarchy which restored aspects of the deposed Ancien  régime   .
Due to his success in these wars  ,  often against numerically superior enemies  ,  he is  generally  regarded as  एक  of  the   महानतम  military commanders of all time , and his campaigns are studied  at   सैन्य  academies worldwide .
Napoleon was born at Ajaccio in Corsica  in  a family of noble  इतालवी  ancestry which had settled Corsica in the 16th century .
He  प्रशिक्षित  as an  तोपखाने   अधिकारी  in mainland  फ़्रांस  .
He rose to prominence under the French First Republic and led successful  अभियान  against the First and Second Coalitions arrayed against France .
he  led  a  successful invasion of  the  Italian peninsula  .
In 1799  ,  he staged a coup d'état and installed  खुद  as First Consul ;  पाँच  years later the French Senate proclaimed him  सम्राट   ,  following a plebiscite in his favour .
in  the  पहला   दशक   of   the   19th  century , the French Empire  अंतर्गत  Napoleon engaged in  a  series of conflicts—the Napoleonic Wars —that involved  प्रत्येक  major European power .
After a streak  of  victories , France secured a dominant position in continental Europe , and Napoleon  कायम  the French sphere of influence through the formation  of  extensive  alliances  and the appointment of friends and  परिवार  members to rule other  यूरोपीय  countries as French client states .
The Peninsular War and 1812 French  आक्रमण   of  Russia marked turning points in Napoleon 's fortunes .
His  ग्रांडे  Armée  थी  badly damaged in the campaign  और  never fully  बरामद  .
In 1813 , the Sixth Coalition defeated his forces at Leipzig ; the  following  year the Coalition invaded France ,  मजबूर  Napoleon to abdicate and exiled him to the island of  एल्बा  .
Less than a year later , he escaped  एल्बा   और  returned to  शक्ति  , but was defeated at the Battle of  वाटरलू  in  जून   1815  .
Napoleon spent the  पिछला   छह  years of  उसके   जीवन  in  कारावास   by  the British  on  the island  of  Saint Helena .
An  पोस्टमार्टम  concluded he died  of  stomach cancer , but there has  महरूम  some debate about the cause of his death  ,   as  some scholars  have  speculated that he  थी  a victim of arsenic poisoning .
इस  is  a  chronological listing  of  the United States Senators from Pennsylvania  .
United States Senators  हैं  popularly elected  ,  for a six-year term , beginning January 3 .
Elections are held  the  first Tuesday after November 1  .
पहले  1914  ,  they were chosen by the Pennsylvania  सामान्य  Assembly  ,  and before 1935 , their terms began  कूच  4 .
The South Africa national rugby  संघ  team  (  known  as  the Springboks )  represents  South Africa in rugby  संघ   .
वे  compete in the annual  रग्बी  Championship ,  साथ  with southern-hemisphere counterparts Argentina , Australia  और  New Zealand  .
वे  have  जीती  this championship on three  अवसरों  in sixteen  सालो  .
वे  are currently ranked second in the world  by   the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Rugby Board , and  यहूद  named 2008 World Team of the Year at the Laureus World Sports Awards  .
Although  दक्षिण  Africa was  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल   in  the  सृष्टि   of   the   रग्बी  World Cup competition , the Springboks did not compete in  the  first two World Cups  in  1987 and 1991 because of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts  of  South Africa  .
The team made its  संसार  Cup  डेब्यू  in 1995 , when the  newly  democratic South Africa hosted the tournament  .
The Springboks then  पराजित  the All Blacks 15–12 in  the  final  ,  which is now remembered as one of the greatest  पल  in South Africa 's  sporting  history , and a watershed moment in the post-Apartheid nation-building process .
South Africa regained  उनके  title as champions  12   सालो  later  ,  when they defeated England 15–6 in the 2007 final .
As  a  result of the  2007  World  कप  tournament the Springboks were promoted  to  first place in the IRB World  rankings  ,  a  position they held until July the following  साल  when New Zealand regained  the  top spot .
The Springboks play in green and gold jerseys  ,   और   उनके  emblems are the Springbok and the Protea .
The side has been playing international rugby since 1891 , when a British Isles side toured the nation , playing South Africa in their  पहला  Test on 30 July  .
South Africa was  coached  by Jake White , who led the Boks to the 2007 World Cup title  ,  announcing his resignation effectively from the end of  2007  .
His replacement  's  (  पीटर  de Villiers ) contract expired  in  2011 , following a 11–9 defeat to Australia in the Rugby World Cup quarter-final , who then  stated  he would not be signing a  नई   सौदे   .
The previous captain was John  smit  ,  जो  before he retired in  2011  played hooker for most of his career , although  he   रै  also been a prop , mainly  in  2008 and  2009   .
Due to Smit  होने  unavailable for the November 2010 Tests  बाद  surgery  ,  lock Victor Matfield took Smit  's  place as captain for that tour .
The current captain is Jean  de  Villiers  .
The Battle of Gettysburg ( , with an  ध्वनि  ) , was fought July 1–3  ,  1863  ,   in  and around  the   कस्बा  of Gettysburg ,  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
it  was the battle with the  largest  number of casualties in the American Civil War and is often described as  the  war  's  turning point  .
संघ  Maj. Gen. George Gordon Meade 's  फौज  of the Potomac defeated  हमले  by  confederate  Gen. Robert E. Lee 's Army of Northern Virginia , ending Lee 's invasion of the North  .
After his success at Chancellorsville in Virginia in May 1863 , Lee led his army  through  the Shenandoah Valley to begin his second invasion of the North—the Gettysburg  अभियान  .
With  उसके  army in high spirits  ,  Lee intended to shift the  फ़ोकस  of  the   गर्मियाँ  campaign from war-ravaged northern Virginia and hoped to  influence  Northern politicians to  दे  up  उनके  prosecution  of  the war by penetrating as far  as  Harrisburg ,  पेन्सिलवेनिया   ,  or even  फिलाडेल्फिया  .
Prodded by President Abraham Lincoln , Maj. Gen.  जोसेफ  Hooker moved his army in  pursuit  , but was relieved just three days before  the  battle and replaced by Meade .
Elements  of  the two  सेना  initially collided at Gettysburg on July 1 , 1863  ,  as Lee urgently concentrated  उसके  forces there ,  उसके   उद्देश्य  being to engage the Union army  और  destroy it .
Low ridges to the  उत्तरपश्चिम  of town were defended initially by  a  Union cavalry  प्रभाग  under Brig  .   gen.   जॉन  Buford , and  जल्द  reinforced with two corps of Union infantry .
However , two large Confederate corps assaulted them from the northwest and north , collapsing the hastily developed Union lines , sending the defenders retreating through the streets of  कस्बा  to the  पहाड़ियाँ  just to the south .
on  the second  दिन  of battle , most of both armies  था  assembled .
The Union line was laid  आउट  in a defensive  गठन  resembling a fishhook  .
in  the late afternoon  of   जुलाई  2  ,  Lee launched a  भारी  assault on the  संघ  left flank , and fierce  लड़  raged  at  Little Round Top , the Wheatfield , Devil 's Den ,  और  the Peach Orchard  .
On the Union right  ,  demonstrations  escalated  into full-scale assaults on Culp 's Hill and Cemetery Hill  .
All across the battlefield  ,  despite significant losses , the Union defenders held their  लाइनों  .
On the third day of battle ,  जुलाई  3 , fighting  resumed  on Culp 's Hill , and cavalry  लड़ाइयों  raged to the east and south , but the main  इवेंट  was a dramatic infantry  उत्पीड़न  by 12,500 Confederates against the center of the Union line on Cemetery Ridge  ,   ज्ञात  as Pickett 's Charge .
The charge  थी  repulsed by Union rifle and artillery  आग   ,  at great losses to  the  Confederate army .
Lee led  उसके  army on  a  torturous retreat  वापस  to Virginia .
between   46,000   और  51,000 soldiers  इससे   दोनो  armies  यहूद  casualties in the three-day battle .
That November , President Lincoln  प्रयुक्त  the dedication ceremony for the Gettysburg National Cemetery  to  honor the fallen Union soldiers  और  redefine the purpose of  the  war in his historic Gettysburg Address  .
An academic discipline , or field of study , is a branch of knowledge that  is  taught and researched at the college or  विश्वविद्यालयों  level .
Disciplines are defined (  in  part ) , and recognized by the academic journals in which research is  प्रकाशित  , and the  सीखे  societies and academic departments or faculties to which  उनके  practitioners belong  .
However , there  exists  no formal criteria  लिये  when educational  कार्यक्रम  and scholarly journals form an academic discipline .
A huge difference  exists  between , on the  एक  hand , well  स्थापित  disciplines that exist in almost all  विश्वविद्यालयों  all over the world , have a  long  history , and have a well established  नियत  of journals and conferences , and ,  on   the  other hand , suggestions for new fields  समर्थित  only  by  few universities  और  publications .
Fields  of  study usually have several sub-disciplines or  शाखाओं  , and the distinguishing lines between these are often both arbitrary and ambiguous .
PHP  is  a server-side scripting  भाषा  designed for web development but also used as a general-purpose programming language .
PHP is now installed  on  more than 244 million websites and  2.1  million web  सर्वर  .
originally   निर्मित  by Rasmus Lerdorf  in  1995 , the  सन्दर्भ  implementation of PHP is  अभी  produced by  the  PHP Group .
While  पीएचपी  originally stood for  निजी   घर  Page , it  अभी  stands for PHP : Hypertext  preprocessor  , a recursive acronym .
PHP code  is  interpreted  by  a web server  साथ  a PHP processor module which generates the resulting  वेब  page : PHP commands can be embedded directly  into  an HTML source document rather than  कॉलिंग  an external file to process data .
It has  भी  evolved to include a command-line interface capability and can  be  used  in   स्टैंडअलोन  graphical applications .
पीएचपी  is free  तन्त्र  released under the PHP  अनुज्ञा  , which is  असंगत   साथ  the GNU General Public License ( GPL ) due to restrictions on the usage of the term  पीएचपी  .
पीएचपी  can be  तैनात  on  सबसे  web servers and also  as  a standalone shell on almost every operating system  और  platform , free of  चार्ज  .
John Fitzgerald `` Jack  ''   कैनेडी   (  May 29 , 1917 – November 22 , 1963 ) , often referred to by his initials JFK , was the 35th President of the  संयुक्त  States  ,  serving from  1961  until  उसके  death in 1963 .
After military service as commander  of  the  मोटर  Torpedo Boats PT-109 and  pt-59   दौरान  World  युद्ध  II in the South Pacific ,  कैनेडी  represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in  the  U.S. House of Representatives from  1947  to 1953 as a Democrat .
Thereafter , he  परोसा  in the U.S. Senate from 1953 until 1960  .
कैनेडी  defeated Vice President  और  Republican candidate Richard Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election  .
At 43 years  of  age , he  is   the   youngest   to   have  been elected  to  the  दफ्तर  , the second-youngest President  (  after Theodore Roosevelt  )  , and the first  व्यक्ति  born in the 20th century to serve as president .
A Catholic , Kennedy is the only non-  प्रोटोस्टेंट  president  ,  and is  the  only president to  have  won a Pulitzer Prize .
Events during his presidency  शामिल  the Bay of Pigs Invasion , the Cuban Missile Crisis , the  भवन  of  the  Berlin  वॉल   ,   the  Space Race  ,  the African-American Civil Rights Movement , and early stages of the Vietnam War .
therein   ,  Kennedy increased  the   क्रमांक   of   सैन्य  advisers ,  खास  operation forces , and helicopters in  an  effort to curb  the  spread  of  communism in South East Asia .
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the  रणनीतिक  Hamlet Program which was  implemented  by the South Vietnamese  सरकारी  .
It involved  निश्चित  forced relocation , village internment  ,  and segregation of rural South Vietnamese  इससे  the northern  और  southern communist  insurgents  .
Kennedy was assassinated on November  22  , 1963 in Dallas , Texas .
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with  the  crime , but he  थी  shot and killed by  जोकर  Ruby two days later , before a trial could take place .
The  एफबीआई  and the Warren Commission officially concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin .
However  ,   the  United States House Select Committee on Assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded that  those  investigations were flawed and that  कैनेडी  was probably assassinated as  the  result  of   a  conspiracy .
However , ABC News in their investigation , The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond Conspiracy , confirmed the  निष्कर्षों  of  the  Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone  .
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter  bomber  program led to a Congressional investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970 .
Since  the  1960s information concerning Kennedy 's private life has come  to   लाइट  .
Details of  कैनेडी  's  स्वास्थ्य  problems in which  he   struggled  have  become   बेहतर  known , especially since the 1990s .
हालांकि  initially kept secret from  the  general public , reports  of  Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press .
कैनेडी  ranks  अत्यधिक  in public  राय   दरजा  of  u.S.  presidents .
``  Stand by Me '' is a song originally performed  by  Ben E. King and written by King , Jerry Leiber , and Mike Stoller , inspired by the spiritual `` Lord Stand by Me , '' plus two lines  rooted   in  Psalms 46:2–3 .
There have  महरूम  over  400   अंकित  versions of the song .
A political cartoon from an 1894  पक   पत्रिका  by illustrator  s.d   .  Ehrhart , shows  a  farm woman  labeled  `` Democratic  पार्टी  ''  sheltering  from a tornado of political  बदलें   .
a   रूपक  is a figure of speech that describes a subject by asserting that it is ,  on  some point of  तुलना   ,   the  same as another otherwise  unrelated  object .
Metaphor is a  प्रकार  of analogy  और  is closely related to  अन्य   rhetorical  figures of speech that achieve their effects via association , comparison or resemblance  सहित  allegory  ,  hyperbole , and simile .
In simpler terms , a  रूपक  compares two objects or things  बगैर  using the words `` like  ''  or `` as '' .
One of the most prominent examples of a metaphor  in  English  साहित्य   is  the All the  संसार  's  a  stage monologue from As You Like  it  :
All  the  world 's a stage,
And  सब  the  मेन  and women merely players ;
They have their exits and their entrances ; — William Shakespeare ,  as   तुम  Like It , 2/7
This quote  is  a  रूपक   क्युकी  the world is not literally a stage .
By  figuratively  asserting that the  संसार   is   a  stage , Shakespeare  उपयोग   the  points  of  comparison between  the  world and a stage  to  convey an  समझना  about  the  mechanics of the world  और   the   जीवनदान  of the people within  it  .
Mount Fuji , from the Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji , color woodcut by  katsushika  Hokusai
Rembrandt van Rijn ,  self-portrait  ,  etching  , c.1630
Francisco Goya  ,  There is No One To  सहायता  Them ,  आपदाओं  of War series , aquatint c.1810
फेलिक्स  Vallotton ,  la  raison probante ( The Cogent Reason ) , woodcut from the series Intimités , 1898
Printmaking is the process of  बनाना   artworks   by   मुद्रण  , normally on  पेपर  .
printmaking   सामान्यतः  covers only the process of creating  prints   साथ   an  element of  मौलिकता  , rather  than  just  होने  a photographic reproduction of  a  painting .
Except in the case of monotyping , the process is capable of producing multiples  of  the same piece ,  जिससे  is called  a  print .
प्रत्येक  print  उत्पादित  is not considered a `` copy  ''  but rather is considered an `` original ''  .
This  is  because  typically  each print varies to an extent due to  परिवर्तनीय   मूलभूत  to  the  printmaking process  ,  and also because the  imagery  of a print is typically not simply  a  reproduction of another work but rather  is  often a unique image designed from the start to be expressed in a particular printmaking technique .
A print may be known as an  छाप  .
Printmaking ( other than monotyping  )   is  not chosen only  लिये  its  क्षमता   to  produce multiple impressions , but rather  लिये   the  unique qualities that each of the printmaking processes lends  itself  to  .
Prints  हैं  created  by   transferring  ink  इससे  a matrix or  through  a prepared screen to a  चादर  of paper  or  other  सामग्री  .
Common  प्रकार  of matrices include  :  metal plates , usually copper or zinc , or polymer plates for engraving  or  etching ; stone ,  एल्यूमिनियम  , or polymer for lithography ; blocks of wood for  woodcuts  and wood engravings ; and linoleum for linocuts .
Screens made  of  silk or synthetic fabrics are used for the screenprinting process  .
अन्य   प्रकार  of matrix substrates and related processes  हैं  discussed below  .
अनेक  impressions printed from the same  मेट्रिक्स  form an  संस्करण  .
Since  the  late 19th  सदी  , artists have  generally  signed individual impressions from an edition and often number  the  impressions to form  a  limited edition  .
Prints may also be printed in book  रूप  ,  ऐसे  as illustrated books or artist 's books .
Il Divo is an English multinational  operatic  pop vocal group  निर्मित  by music manager , executive , and reality TV star Simon Cowell .
Formed in the United Kingdom , they are also signed to Cowell 's record label  ,  Syco Music .
Il Divo is a group of four male singers : French  पॉप  singer  सेबेस्तियन  Izambard , Spanish baritone Carlos Marín , American tenor David Miller , and Swiss tenor  उर्स  Bühler .
To date ,  वे   have  sold  अधिक  than  26  million  एल्बम  worldwide .
su-15  , one of the principal  सोवियत  Air Defence interceptors  in   the  1970s and  1980s
An interceptor aircraft (  or  simply interceptor ) is a type of fighter aircraft  designed  specifically to prevent missions of enemy  वायुयान  , particularly  बमवर्षक   और  reconnaissance aircraft  ,  and destroy them ,  relying   प्रायः   on   ग्रेट   गति   और  powerful armament  .
Being used since the First World War , after the late 1960s ,  interceptors  became less important due to shifting  इससे   बमवर्षक  to  इंटरकांटिनेंटल   बैलिस्टिक  missiles  (   icbms  ) for nuclear warfare .
A  वियतनामी  American ( )  is  an American of  वियतनामी  descent .
वे  make up about half of all overseas Vietnamese ( Người Việt Hải  ngoại  ) and are  the  fourth-largest Asian American group .
Mass Vietnamese immigration to the United States started after 1975 , after the end of the Vietnam War .
Early immigrants  यहूद   शरणार्थी  boat  लोगों   fleeing   persecution  or poverty .
Forced to  भागो  from their  मातृभूमि  and often  thrust   into  poor  शहरी  neighborhoods , these newcomers have nevertheless managed to establish strong communities  in   a  short amount of time .
More  than  sixty  प्रतिशत  of Vietnamese  अमेरिकी  reside in the states of California , Texas  ,  Washington , Florida  ,  and Virginia  .
Front page of  the   u.S.  Armed Forces newspaper , Stars and Stripes ,  2  May 1945
Adolf Hitler committed suicide by gunshot on 30 April 1945 in his Führerbunker in Berlin .
His wife Eva ( née  braun   )  committed suicide  साथ  him by  ingesting  cyanide .
कि  afternoon ,  in   accordance   साथ  Hitler 's prior instructions ,  उनके  remains  यहूद  carried up the stairs through  the  bunker  's   आपात  exit ,  doused  in  पेट्रोल  and  नियत  alight in the Reich Chancellery garden outside the bunker .
The Soviet archives  रिकार्ड  that their burnt  remains   यहूद  recovered and interred in successive locations  जबतक  1970 when they were  again  exhumed ,  cremated  and  the  ashes scattered .
Accounts  differ  as to the cause of death ; one that he died by poison only and another  कि  he died  by   a  self-inflicted gunshot , while biting down on a cyanide capsule .
समकालीन  historians  have  rejected  ये  accounts as being  either   सोवियत  propaganda or an attempted compromise in  अनुक्रम   to  reconcile the different  conclusions  .
एक  eye-witness recorded  कि  the body showed signs of having been shot through the mouth ,  लकिन  this has been  सिद्ध   असंभावित  .
There is also  विवाद  regarding the  authenticity  of skull and jaw fragments  जिससे  were  बरामद  .
in  2009 , DNA tests were  performed  on  a  skull Soviet officials had  long  believed to be Hitler  's  .
The tests  नाज़िल  that  the  skull  थी  actually that of a woman less  than  40 years old .
Location of Missouri
The alcohol laws of Missouri are  among  the least restrictive and most lax and  permissive  in the United  राज्य  .
Missouri is known throughout  the  Midwest for its  largely  laissez-faire approach to alcohol regulation , in sharp contrast to  the  very strict alcohol laws of some of  इसके  neighbors , like Kansas and Oklahoma  .
Necrotizing fasciitis ( or )  or   nf   ,  commonly known  as  flesh-eating  बीमारी  or flesh-eating bacteria syndrome ,  is  a rare infection of  the   deeper  layers of skin and subcutaneous tissues , easily spreading across the  fascial  plane within the subcutaneous tissue  .
Necrotizing  fasciitis  is quickly progressing  ,  having greater risk of developing in the immunocompromised due to conditions like diabetes ,  कर्कट  ,  इत्यादि  .
It is a severe disease of sudden  onset  and is usually treated  तत्काल  with high doses  of  intravenous  एंटीबायोटिक  .
Type I describes a  polymicrobial  infection , whereas Type  ii   describes   a   monomicrobial  infection .
Many types  of  bacteria  can  cause necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g. , Group A streptococcus ( Streptococcus  pyogenes  ) , Staphylococcus aureus ,  clostridium   perfringens  , Bacteroides  fragilis   ,  Aeromonas hydrophila ) .
Such infections  हैं  more  संभावित  to occur  in  people with compromised immune systems .
Historically , Group A streptococcus made up most  मामले  of Type II infections .
however   ,  since as early as 2001 , another serious form of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis  रै  been  observed   साथ  increasing  आवृत्ति  , caused  by   methicillin-resistant  Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) .
Some published  मामला  reports have implied a possible link  between  use of non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory  drugs and NF , though the evidence of the link was said to be weak because of a small number of case patients  और  it was unclear whether the drugs just  नकाबपोश  the  लक्षण   of  a secondary infection or were a cause per se .
World War II ( WWII or WW2 ) ,  भी  known as the Second  संसार  War , was a global  युद्ध  that lasted from 1939  to  1945  .
It involved the vast majority of  the   संसार  's  राष्ट्र  —including all of  the  great powers  —eventually  forming  दो  opposing  सैन्य  alliances :  the  Allies and the  अक्ष  .
It  थी   the  most widespread  युद्ध  in history , with more than 100 million  लोगों  serving in military units from  over  30  अलग   देशों  .
In a state  of  `` total war  ``  , the major participants  लगाई  their entire economic , industrial  ,   और   वैज्ञानिक  capabilities at  the   सेवा  of the war effort ,  erasing  the distinction between civilian and military resources .
Marked by mass  मौतों  of civilians , including the  holocaust  and the only use  of  nuclear weapons  in  warfare , it resulted in 50 million to over 75  लाख  fatalities .
These deaths make World War II by far the deadliest conflict in human history .
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate East Asia and was already at war with  the  Republic  of  China in  1937  , but the world war  is  generally  कहा  to have begun on 1 September 1939  साथ   the  invasion of Poland by Germany  और  subsequent declarations of war  on  Germany by France  और  Britain .
इससे  late 1939 to early 1941 , in a series  of  campaigns and treaties , Germany formed  the  Axis alliance with Italy , conquering  or  subduing much of continental Europe .
Following the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact , Germany and  the  Soviet Union partitioned and annexed  territories  between  themselves  of  उनके  European neighbours ,  सहित  Poland .
the  United Kingdom  और  the other members  of  the  अंग्रेजों   राष्ट्रमंडल  were  the   तभी  major Allied forces continuing the fight against the Axis  ,  with battles taking place in North Africa as well  as  the long-running Battle of the Atlantic .
In June  1941  , the European Axis  शुभारम्भ  an invasion of the Soviet Union , giving a start to the  largest   जमीन  theatre of war in history ,  जिससे  tied down the major  भाग   of  the  अक्ष  ' military forces for the rest of the war .
in  December 1941 ,  जापानी   joined  the Axis ,  attacked  the United States and European territories in the Pacific Ocean , and quickly conquered much  of  the Western Pacific .
The Axis advance was stopped in 1942  ,  after  जापानी   खोया  a series of naval  लड़ाइयों   और  European  अक्ष  troops were defeated in North Africa and , decisively , at Stalingrad .
In 1943 , with a  श्रेणी  of German  defeats  in Eastern Europe , the Allied invasion of Italy , and American victories in the Pacific , the Axis lost the initiative and undertook strategic retreat on all  fronts  .
In 1944 , the Western Allies invaded France  ,  while the Soviet Union regained  सब  of its territorial  नुकसान  and invaded Germany and  इसके  allies  .
दौरान  1944 and 1945 the United States defeated the  जापानी  Navy and captured key  पश्चिमी  Pacific islands .
The war  in  Europe ended  साथ  the capture of Berlin by Soviet and Polish troops and the subsequent  जर्मनी  unconditional surrender on 8  may  1945 .
Following the  पॉट्सडैम  Declaration  by  the Allies  on  26 July 1945 , the United States dropped atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima on 6 August ,  और  Nagasaki on 9 August .
With an invasion of the Japanese archipelago imminent , and the  सोवियत   संघ  having  घोषित  war on Japan by invading Manchuria ,  जापानी  surrendered on 15 August 1945  ,   समाप्ति  the war in Asia and cementing the  कुल  victory  of   the  Allies over the Axis .
World  युद्ध   ii  altered  the  political alignment and social structure of the world .
The United Nations  (  UN ) was established  to   फोस्टर  international  सहयोग  and  prevent   भविष्य   विरोध  .
The great  शक्तियां   कि  were the victors of the war—the United States , the Soviet Union , China  ,  the  संयुक्त  Kingdom , and France—became  the  permanent members of  the   संयुक्त   राष्ट्र  Security Council .
The Soviet Union and the United States emerged as  प्रतिद्वंद्वी   superpowers  ,  सेटिंग  the stage  लिये  the Cold War , which lasted for the next 46  सालो  .
Meanwhile  ,  the influence  of  European great powers started to decline ,  जबकि   the  decolonisation of Asia  और  Africa began .
Most countries whose  उद्योग  had been  क्षतिग्रस्त  moved towards economic recovery .
Political integration , especially in  यूरोपीय   ,  emerged  as  an  प्रयत्न  to stabilise postwar  संबंध   और  fight more effectively  in  the Cold War .
a  limited liability company ( LLC ) is a flexible form  of  enterprise that blends elements of partnership  और  corporate  structures  .
Note than an LLC is not a corporation  ,  and calling an LLC a  निगम  is technically incorrect .
an   llc  is a legal form of company that provides limited liability  to   इसके  owners  in  the vast  बहुमत  of United States  jurisdictions  .
LLCs do not  need  to  be  organized for  लाभ  .
Five K-Cups
The  अंदर   of   a  used  k-cup  , with the top foil and the used  कॉफी  grounds  removed  .
This shows  the  filter  अंदर   the  K-Cup .
K-Cup portion packs are used with Keurig or other  सिंगल  cup brewing systems to brew a  कप  of coffee ,  चाय  , or hot chocolate .
Each K-Cup is a plastic container with a  कॉफी  filter inside .
Ground  कॉफी   सेम  are packed in the K-Cup and sealed  air-tight  with a combination plastic and  foil  lid .
When the K-Cup is placed in  a  Keurig brewer , the brewer punctures the foil lid and the bottom  of   the  K-Cup and forces hot  जल  under pressure through the  k-cup   और  into a mug .
Keurig licenses its  k-cup  technology  to  coffee  roasters  and tea  makers  such  as  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters ,  diedrich/  Gloria Jeans , Timothy 's World  कॉफी  , Van Houtte , Caribou  कॉफी   ,  Celestial Seasonings  ,  Bigelow Tea Company , Twinings ,  टली   's  , Coffee People and Newman 's Own .
Keurig 's patents on the original K-Cup design expired  in  September 2012 .
Keurig  holds   at  least one additional , still-active US patent and another patent application , detailing improvements that have subsequently been incorporated in their K-Cup  डिज़ाइन  .
Electa Pocket Chronograph (  ca  . 1890s ) manufactured by the Gallet Watch Company in La Chaux-de-Fonds  ,   स्विट्ज़रलैंड  .
Gallet MultiChron Astronomic  (  ca  .  1959 )  —complex  mechanical chronograph with  12  hour recoding capabilities , automatic day , date , month , and moon phase display
A modern Seiko quartz wristwatch using the chronograph function ( movement  7t92  ) .
Citizen Atessa  eco-drive  ATV53-3023 analog-digital  chronograph  with  4  area  रेडियो   नियंत्रित  reception (  उत्तर   अमेरिका   ,  Europe , China  ,  Japan ) .
A chronograph is a specific  प्रकार  of watch that is used as a  stopwatch  combined with a  प्रदर्शक  watch .
a   मौलिक  chronograph has  an  independent sweep second  हाथ  ;  it  can be started , stopped  ,  and  लौटे  to zero by successive  दबाव  on the stem .
लुई  Moinet  invented  the chronograph in  1816
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect ,  भाग  of the  पीसीआई   लोकल  Bus standard and often  shortened  to just PCI ) is a local computer  बस  for attaching hardware devices in a computer .
The PCI  बस  supports  the  functions found on a processor bus  ,   लकिन  in a  मानकीकृत   स्वरूप  that is independent of any particular processor .
Devices connected  to  the bus appear to the processor to be  कनेक्ट  directly to the processor bus , and  हैं  assigned addresses in the processor 's address  स्पेस  .
Attached  डिवाइस  can take  either   the  form  of  an integrated circuit fitted onto the motherboard  itself  ,  पुकारा  a planar  यंत्र  in the  पीसीआई  specification , or an expansion card that  fits  into  a  slot .
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in  ibm   pc   compatibles  ,  जहाँ  it displaced the  संयोजन   of  ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration .
It has  subsequently  been adopted for other computer types .
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced  by  PCI  एक्स्प्रेस   ,  but , most motherboards are still made with one or more PCI slots , which are  sufficient   लिये  many uses  .
The PCI specification covers the  शारीरिक  size of the bus ( including the size  और  spacing of the circuit board  किनारे  electrical contacts )  ,  electrical  विशेषताएँ   ,  bus timing , and protocols .
The specification can be  खरीदा  from  the  PCI Special Interest  समूह  (  pci-sig  ) .
Typical PCI cards  प्रयुक्त  in PCs include : network cards , sound  ताश  ,  modems  , extra  पोर्ट  such  as  USB or  सीरियल   ,  TV  ट्यूनर  cards and disk controllers .
PCI video  ताश  replaced ISA and  vesa  cards , until growing bandwidth requirements outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface  लिये  video cards  became  AGP , and then  पीसीआई  Express .
PCI video cards remain  उपलब्धियाँ  for use with  बूढ़ा  PCs without AGP or PCI  एक्स्प्रेस  slots .
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are now commonly  एकीकृत  onto motherboards or available in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions .
माइकल  Whitaker Smith (  born   अक्तूबर  7 , 1957  )  is an American contemporary Christian musician , who has  charted  primarily in the contemporary Christian and occasionally in  the   मुख्यधारा  charts .
His biggest  कामयाबी  in mainstream music was in 1991  जब  `` Place in  इस   संसार  '' hit No . 6 on  the  Billboard Hot 100 .
Smith is a three-time Grammy Award winner , and has earned  40   dove  Awards .
Over the course of his career , he sold more than 13 million  एल्बम  and recorded 29 No  .  1 Hit songs , fourteen gold albums  ,  and five platinum albums  .
Smith is an American Music Award recipient ;  he  was  भी  named one  of  People magazine 's `` Most Beautiful  लोगों   ''  .
An  अमरीकी   पोस्टर  from the World War II  -era  that was used  to  inform people about  कया  they should do if  वे  suspect sabotage .
Sabotage is a deliberate action aimed at weakening another  एंटिटी   through  subversion , obstruction , disruption  ,   or  destruction .
In a workplace setting , sabotage is the conscious withdrawal of  दक्षता  generally directed at causing some change in workplace conditions .
एक  who engages in sabotage is a saboteur .
As a rule  ,   saboteurs  try to conceal their identities because of the consequences of their actions .
For example , whereas an environmental pressure group  might   be  happy to be  पहचाना  with an act of sabotage , it would not want the  व्यक्तिगत  identities  of  the perpetrators known  .
Patrick Henry  कॉलेज  (  phc   )  is a  निजी   ,   स्वतंत्र   कॉलेज  with an Evangelical Christian basis that focuses on teaching classical liberal  कला  and government ,  स्तिथ  in Purcellville , Virginia , United States .
Patrick Henry is known for its conservative  धर्मान्तरण  Christian focus  .
As of April 17 , 2007 ,  the  college was accredited  by  the Transnational Association of Christian Colleges and  स्कूलों  ,  a  national faith-related accrediting organization recognized by the Department  of   शिक्षा  and the Council for Higher  शिक्षा   प्रत्यायन  .
The school was  संस्थापित  with the help of the  घर  School Legal  रक्षा  Association  ,  and now serves as  the  headquarters for  the  organization  ,  with which it is still closely connected .
The history of television comprises the work of numerous engineers and inventors in several  देशों  over many decades .
the  earliest  प्रस्ताव  was in 1908 , in  a   पेपर  by A . A. Campbell-Swinton  और  postulated  the  use of cathode rays .
The first practical demonstrations of television , however ,  यहूद  developed using electromechanical methods to scan , transmit  ,   और  reproduce an image  .
As electronic  कैमरा   और   प्रदर्शक  tubes were perfected , electromechanical television gave  रास्ता  to all-electronic systems in nearly  सब  applications .
L'Idéal Cinéma - Jacques Tati at  aniche  opened November 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active movie  थिएटर  in the world
A cinema in Australia
A typical  मल्टीप्लेक्स  ( AMC Promenade 16 in Woodland Hills , Los Angeles ,  u.S.   )
a   फिल्म  theater ( also called a cinema , movie house  ,  film house  ,  film theater  or  picture house ) is a venue  ,   प्रायः  a  भवन  , for viewing films .
Most  लकिन  not all movie theaters  हैं  commercial operations catering to the general public , who attend by purchasing a ticket  .
the  movie is projected with a movie projector onto a  विशाल   प्रक्षेप  screen at the front of the auditorium  .
Most movie theaters are now equipped  लिये  digital  सिनेमा  projection , removing the  need  to create and  हस्तांतरण  a physical film print .
दक्षिणी  California Norton Owner 's Club on California State Route 41 , near Creston .
A motorcycle club is a group of  individuals  whose  प्राथमिक  interest and activities involve motorcycles .
Lyme disease  ,  Lyme borreliosis is an infectious  बीमारी  caused by at least  तीन  species  of  bacteria belonging to  the  genus Borrelia .
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto  is  the main cause of Lyme disease in  उत्तर  America  ,  whereas Borrelia afzelii and Borrelia garinii cause most European  मामले  .
The disease is named after the towns of Lyme and Old Lyme , Connecticut , USA , where a number  of  cases  यहूद  identified in  1975  .
Although Allen Steere  एहसास  that Lyme disease was a tick-borne disease in 1978  ,   the  cause of the  बीमारी  remained  a  mystery  जबतक  1981 , when B.  burgdorferi  was identified by  विली  Burgdorfer  .
Lyme disease is the  सबसे   आम   tick-borne  disease in the Northern Hemisphere  .
Borrelia is transmitted to humans by the bite  of  infected ticks belonging to  a  few species of the genus Ixodes  (   ``  hard ticks ''  )  .
Early  लक्षण  may include  ज्वर  , headache , fatigue , depression , and a characteristic circular skin rash  पुकारा  erythema migrans ( EM ) .
Left untreated , later symptoms may involve the joints ,  दिल   ,  and central  बेचैन  system .
In most cases , the  संक्रमण   और   इसके  symptoms are eliminated by antibiotics , especially if the illness is treated early .
Delayed  or  inadequate treatment  can   सीसे  to more serious symptoms , which can  be  disabling and difficult to  दावत  .
Penises of minke whales  on  display at  the  Icelandic Phallological Museum
Penis  (  plural penises or penes ) is  a  general term for  the  organs  साथ  which male  और  hermaphrodite animals introduce sperm into receptive  महिलाओं  during copulation .
Such organs occur in  अनेक  animals , both vertebrate and invertebrate , but males do not bear a penis in every animal species , and in those species in which  the  male does bear a so-called penis , the penes in  the  various species are not necessarily homologous .
लिये  example , the penis of a mammal is at  सबसे   analogous  to the penis of a male insect or barnacle .
The  पद  penis applies to many reproductive intromittent organs , but not  to   सब  ; for example the intromittent organ  of  most cephalopoda is the hectocotylus , a  specialised  arm , and  पुरूष  spiders  उपयोग  their  pedipalps  .
In most species  of  animals  in  which there is an organ that might  reasonably  be described as a penis , it has no  प्रमुख  function other  than   intromission  , or at least conveying the sperm to the female  ,  but in the placental  स्तनधारियों  the  शिश्न  bears the  distal   भाग  of  the  urethra , which discharges both urine  दौरान  urination and semen during copulation as the  अवसर  requires .
Artists and repertoire  (  A & R ) is the division of  a  record  लेबल  or music publishing  कम्पनी  that is responsible for talent scouting  और  overseeing  the   कलाकारी  development of  रिकॉर्डिंग  artists and/or songwriters .
It also acts as a liaison  between  artists  और  the  रिकार्ड   लेबल  or publishing company ; every activity  involving  artists to the point of album release is generally considered under  the  purview of  ,  and responsibility of , A & R .
A furlong is a  माप  of distance  in  imperial units and  u.S.  customary  इकाई  equal to  one-eighth   of   a  mile ,  समतुल्य  to 220 yards , 660 feet , 40  छड़  ,  or  10 chains .
The exact  मान  of the furlong varies slightly among English-speaking  देशों  .
Five furlongs are approximately 1 kilometre ( 1.0058 km  is   a  closer  सन्निकटन   )  .
चूंकि  the  असली  definition of  the   मीटर  was  one-quarter  of one ten-millionth of  the  circumference of the Earth ( along the great  वृत्त  coincident  साथ  the  मध्याह्न  of longitude passing through Paris ) , the circumference of the Earth is  परिचय   40,000   km  or about  200,000  furlongs .
CR2032  लिथियम  button cell battery
Lithium  9  volt , AA  ,   &  AAA sizes
लिथियम  batteries are disposable (  प्राथमिक  ) batteries that have lithium metal or lithium compounds as an anode .
वे   स्टैंड  apart from other batteries in their high charge  घनत्व  ( long life ) and high cost per unit .
Depending on the design and  रासायनिक  compounds used  ,  lithium cells can produce voltages from  1.5  V (  comparable   to   a   zinc–carbon  or alkaline battery ) to about 3.7 V.  लिथियम  batteries are  widely  used in products such as portable consumer electronic devices .
Raymond  ``  Ray '' Charles  जोकर  LaMontagne ( ; born June 18  ,  1973 ) is an American singer-songwriter .
LaMontagne has released four studio albums , Trouble , Till the Sun  turns  Black  ,  Gossip  in   the  Grain and  परमेश्वर  Willin '  &   the  Creek Do n't Rise .
He was born in New Hampshire  और  was inspired to  बनाएँ  music after  सुनना  an album by Stephen Stills  .
Critics  have  compared LaMontagne 's music to that  of  The  बैंड  , Van Morrison , Nick Drake , and Tim  buckley   .
He lives in Massachusetts  साथ  his wife and two children .
When the Wind Blows is a novel by James Patterson .
It is the precursor  to  The Lake House  और  inspired the Maximum  सवारी  series .
The  अनोखा  is  फिलहाल  set to be adapted into a movie .
The Pittsburgh Steelers were founded in 1933 .
Over the course of the team  's  history  ,  the team has had several logos  जबकि   wearing  virtually  the   वही  uniforms over the years , with  हल्का  changes  बना  to  दे  the  वर्दी  an  अद्यतनीकृत   dekh   .
The team colors , uniforms , and logo are often ranked as being among  the  best in the NFL  .
Facebook on the Ad-tech  2010
Facebook is an online social  नेटवर्किंग  service , whose name  तना  from the colloquial name for the book  दिए   to  students at the start of  the  academic year  by  some university administrations in the United States to help students get to  जान  each other .
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his college roommates and fellow  हार्वर्ड  University students Eduardo Saverin , Andrew McCollum  ,  Dustin  moskovitz   और  Chris  ह्यूजेस   .
The website 's membership was initially limited by the  संस्थापकों  to Harvard  विद्यार्थी  ,  लकिन  was  विस्तारित  to other colleges in the Boston area , the Ivy League  ,  and Stanford University .
It  धीरे  added  support  for students at various other universities  पहले   खोलने  to high school students , and eventually to anyone aged  13  and over  .
Facebook  अभी  allows any users who declare themselves to be  at  least 13 years old to  become   पंजीकृत  users of the site  .
Users  जरूर  register  पहले  using the site  ,  after which  वे   may  create a  निजी   प्रोफ़ाइल  , add other users as friends , and  एक्सचेंज  messages  ,  including automatic notifications when they  अद्यतन  their  प्रोफ़ाइल  .
Additionally , users may join  common-interest  user groups  ,   व्यवस्थित   by  workplace  ,  school or college  ,  or other characteristics  ,  and  categorize  their friends into  सूचियाँ  such  as  `` People  इससे  Work '' or  ``  Close Friends '' .
As of  सितंबर  2012 , Facebook has over one billion active users .
according  to  a   may  2011 Consumer Reports survey , there are 7.5 million children  अंतर्गत  13 with  खाते  and 5 million under  10  , violating the site 's terms  of   सेवा  .
In May 2005 ,  accel   साझेदार  invested  $  12.7 million  in  Facebook ,  और  Jim Breyer added  $  1 million of his  अपना   धन  to the pot .
a   जनवरी  2009  compete.com  study ranked Facebook as the most used  सोशल  networking service by worldwide monthly active users  .
entertainment  Weekly  शामिल  the  साईट  on  इसके  end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list ,  saying  , `` How on earth did we stalk our exes , remember our  co-workers  ' birthdays ,  कीड़ा  our friends  ,  and play a rousing  खेल  of Scrabulous  पहले  Facebook ? ''
Critics ,  ऐसे  as Facebook Detox  ,  state  कि  Facebook has turned into a national  obsession  in the United States ,  resulting   in   विशाल  amounts  of   समय  lost and encouraging narcissism  .
quantcast  estimates Facebook has  138.9   लाख  monthly unique  u.S.  visitors in May 2011 .
According to  सोशल  Media Today , in April 2010 an  अनुमानित  41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the U.S. population  था   a   फेसबुक  account .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's market growth  प्रारंभ  to stall  in  some regions ,  साथ  the site losing 7 million  क्रियाशील  users in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  and Canada in  may   2011  .
फेसबुक  eventually filed for an initial public offering on February  1   ,  2012 , and was  headquartered  in Menlo Park , California  .
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the public and trading on the NASDAQ on  may  18  ,   2012  .
Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel ( 15  नवम्बर   1891   –  14 October  1944  ) , popularly known as The Desert  फॉक्स  ( Wüstenfuchs , ) , was a German Field Marshal of World War  ii  .
He earned  the  respect of both his  अपना  troops and the enemies  he  fought .
Rommel  थी  a  अत्यधिक  decorated officer in World  युद्ध  I and was awarded the Pour le Mérite for  उसके  exploits on the Italian front .
in  World  युद्ध   ii   ,   he  further distinguished himself as the commander of the 7th Panzer  प्रभाग  during the  1940   आक्रमण  of France .
उसके  leadership of German and  इतालवी  forces in  the  North African  अभियान  established him as one of the  सबसे   समर्थ  commanders of  the  war , and earned  उसे  the  appellation   of   the  Desert Fox .
he   is   regarded   as  one of the  सबसे  skilled  कमांडरों  of desert warfare in the conflict  .
he  later commanded the German forces opposing the Allied cross-channel invasion in Normandy .
उसके  assignments  never   took  him to  the  Eastern Front .
Rommel is regarded as having been a  दयालु  and professional officer .
His Afrika  कोर्प्स   थी  never accused of  युद्ध  crimes ,  और  soldiers captured during his Africa campaign were reported  to  have  महरूम  treated humanely  .
Orders  to  kill  यहूदी  soldiers , civilians and captured commandos  यहूद  ignored .
Late in the war , Rommel  थी  linked to  the  conspiracy to  assassinate  Adolf  हिटलर  .
Since Rommel was  a  national hero ,  हिटलर  desired to eliminate him quietly .
He forced Rommel to commit suicide with a cyanide pill ,  in  return for assurances that Rommel 's family  होता  not  be  persecuted following his death .
Stained  कांच  representation  of  the Holy  स्पिरिट  as a dove , c. 1660 .
The  सात  gifts of the Holy Spirit is  an  enumeration  of  seven  आध्यात्मिक  gifts originating with patristic authors , later elaborated by five intellectual virtues  और  four other groups of ethical characteristics .
They are  :  wisdom , understanding , wonder and awe ( fear of the  रब   )  , counsel ,  ज्ञान   ,  fortitude , and piety ( reverence ) .
the  Earth Day Flag , the latest proposal of John McConnell for  a  flag of Earth Day
Earth  दिन  is an annual event  ,  celebrated on  अप्रैल  22 , on which  कार्यक्रम  are held worldwide to  demonstrate  support for environmental protection  .
It was first celebrated in 1970 , and is now coordinated globally by the Earth Day  संजाल  , and  मनाये  in more  than  192 countries each  साल  .
In  1969  at a UNESCO Conference in San Francisco , the date proposed was  कूच   21  , 1970 , the first day of spring  in   the  northern  गोलार्ध  .
इस  day of nature  's  equipoise was later sanctioned in a Proclamation  हस्ताक्षरित   by  Secretary General U Thant at  the  United Nations .
A month  बाद  a separate  धरती   दिन  was founded by United States Senator  gaylord  Nelson as an  पर्यावरणीय  teach-in  पहला  held on April 22 , 1970  .
Nelson was later awarded the Presidential Medal  of  Freedom Award in recognition of his  कार्य  .
While  इस  April 22 Earth Day was focused  on  the United States ,  an  organization  शुभारम्भ  by Denis Hayes , who was the original national  समन्वयक   in  1970 , took  it  international in  1990  and organized events  in  141 nations .
Numerous communities celebrate Earth Week , an  संपूर्ण  week of  क्रियाएँ  focused on  पर्यावरणीय  issues .
Iodine is a chemical element with  प्रतीक   i   और   परमाणु  number 53 .
The name is  इससे  Greek ioeidēs , meaning violet  or   जामुनी  , due to the color of elemental iodine  वाष्प  .
आयोडीन  and its compounds are primarily used in nutrition , and industrially in the  उत्पादन   of   एसिटिक  acid and certain polymers .
आयोडीन  's relatively  ऊँची  atomic number , low  toxicity   ,  and ease of attachment to organic compounds  have  made it a part of many X-ray contrast materials  in  modern medicine  .
आयोडीन  has only  एक  stable isotope .
A number of  आयोडीन  radioisotopes are also used  in  medical applications .
Iodine  is  found on Earth mainly as the  अत्यधिक  water-soluble iodide ion ,  i−  , which concentrates it in oceans and  brine  pools  .
जैसे  the other halogens  ,   फ़्री  iodine occurs mainly as a  diatomic  molecule I2 , and then only momentarily after being oxidized from  आयोडाइड  by an oxidant like free  ऑक्सीजन  .
In  the  universe  और  on Earth , iodine 's high  परमाणु  number makes it a relatively rare element .
However , its presence  in  ocean water  रै  given it a  भूमिका  in biology .
It is the heaviest essential element utilized widely by life in biological functions ( only tungsten , employed in  एंजाइमों  by a few species of bacteria  ,  is heavier ) .
Iodine 's rarity  in  many soils ,  due  to initial low  प्रचुरता   as  a crust-element  ,  and also leaching  of  soluble iodide by  rainwater  , has led  to   अनेक  deficiency  समस्याएं  in land animals and inland human populations .
Iodine deficiency affects  परिचय  two billion people and  is  the  अग्रणी  preventable cause  of  intellectual disabilities .
Iodine is required by  उच्चतर  animals , which use it to synthesize thyroid hormones , which contain the  तत्व  .
Because of this  फलन   ,  radioisotopes of iodine are concentrated in the thyroid gland  साथ  with nonradioactive  आयोडीन  .
If inhaled , the radioisotope iodine-131 , which has a  ऊँची  fission product  उपज  ,  concentrates  in the thyroid , but is easily remedied with potassium iodide treatment  .
Lobbying (  भी   लॉबी  ) is the act of attempting  to  influence decisions made by  officials  in the government ,  सबसे  often legislators or members of  नियामक   एजेंसियों  .
lobbying  is done by  अनेक  different types of people and  व्यवस्थित   समूह  , including individuals in  the  private  सेक्टर  , corporations , fellow legislators or government officials  ,   or   वकालत  groups (  ब्याज  groups  )  .
Lobbyists may be among a  विधायक  's constituencies , meaning a voter or bloc of voters within his or her electoral district ,  or   नहीं  ; they  may  engage in lobbying as  a  business , or not .
Professional lobbyists  हैं   लोगों  whose business is trying to influence legislation on behalf of a  समूह  or individual who hires them .
Individuals and nonprofit organizations  can  also lobby as  an  act of volunteering or  as  a small part of their  सामान्य  job ( for  उदाहरण  , a CEO  बैठक  with a representative about  a  project important to his/her  कम्पनी  , or  an  activist  बैठक  with his/her legislator in an unpaid capacity  )  .
Governments often define and regulate  व्यवस्थित   समूह   lobbying  that  रै  become  influential  .
the  ethics and  नैतिकता   of  lobbying are .
Lobbying is often spoken of with contempt , when the implication is that people  साथ  inordinate socioeconomic power are corrupting the law ( twisting it  दूर  from fairness ) in order to serve  उनके   अपना  conflict of interest .
लकिन  another side of lobbying  is  making sure that others ' interests are duly defended against  अन्य  ' corruption , or even simply making  यकीनन  that  अल्पसंख्यक  interests are fairly defended against mere tyranny of the  बहुमत  .
For  उदाहरण   ,   a  medical association ,  or  a trade association of health insurance companies , may lobby a legislature in order to counteract the  influence  of tobacco companies , in which case the lobbying would be viewed by most people as justified ( duly  defending  against others  '  corruption ) .
the  difficulty in drawing objective lines between which lobbyists are `` good lobbyists '' and  जिससे  ones  हैं  `` bad ones '' is compounded by the  cleverness   साथ  which lobbyists or  उनके  clients can argue that their own lobbying is of the  ``  good  ''   दयालु   .
at  heart , the effort to influence legislation  is  a power struggle .
As in other forms of  शक्ति  struggle  ,  such as war or  विधि  enforcement , motives range from  to   self-defense  to fighting for justice , and  the  dividing  लकीर  between  predation  and justice is subject to rationalization .
Sunshine of your love guitar riff
Cream were a 1960s British rock supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist  जोकर  Bruce  ,  guitarist/vocalist Eric Clapton , and drummer Ginger Baker  .
उनके  sound was characterised by a hybrid of blues rock , hard  चट्टान  and  साइकेडेलिक  rock , combining the psychedelia-themed  गीत  , Eric Clapton 's  ब्लूज़  guitar  playing  and vocals , Jack Bruce  's  voice  और  prominent bass playing and  अदरक   बेकर   's  jazz -influenced drumming  .
The group 's third album , Wheels of Fire  ,  was the world 's  पहला  platinum-selling double album  .
मलाई   हैं  widely regarded as being the world 's first successful supergroup .
In  उनके  career  ,  they sold over 15 million albums worldwide .
मलाई  's music included  गीतों  based on  परंपरागत  blues such as ``  क्रॉसरोड्स  `` and `` Spoonful `` , and modern blues such as `` Born  अंतर्गत  a  ख़राब  Sign  ``  , as well as more  eccentric  songs  ऐसे  as ``  अजीब  Brew  ``  , `` Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and  ``  Toad `` .
Cream 's  biggest   हिट्स   यहूद  ``  i  Feel Free `` ( UK , number 11 ) , ``  सनशाइन  of Your Love `` (  us  , number 5 ) , ``  श्वेत   रूम  `` ( US , number  6  )  ,  `` Crossroads ''  (  US , number 28 ) , and `` Badge  ``   (  UK , number 18 )  .
Cream made a significant impact on the popular  म्यूज़िक  of the time  ,   और  , along with Jimi Hendrix , and Terry Kath of Chicago  ,  popularised the use  of  the wah-wah pedal .
They provided a  भारी  yet technically proficient  musical  theme that foreshadowed and influenced the emergence of British bands such  as  The Jeff Beck Group in the  लेट  1960s .
The band 's  सजीव  performances influenced progressive rock acts  ऐसे  as  फटाफट  .
Cream were inducted into the Rock and Roll  हॉल  of Fame in 1993 .
They were  शामिल  in  दोनो  Rolling  स्टोन  and  vh1  's lists of the `` 100  महानतम  Artists of All Time '' .
वे  were also ranked  क्रमांक  16 on VH1 's `` 100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock ''  .
Hairspray is a 1988 comedy film written and directed by John Waters ,  और  starring Ricki Lake  ,  Sonny Bono , Debbie Harry , Michael  st.  Gerard  ,   shawn   थॉम्पसन  , Colleen  fitzpatrick  , Jerry Stiller , and  in  his last film role ,  दैवी  .
Hairspray was a dramatic  प्रस्थान  from Waters ' earlier works , with a much broader intended audience .
In  फैक्ट  , Hairsprays PG is the mildest rating a Waters film has received ; most of  उसके  previous films were  रेटेड  X  by  the  mpaa  .
Set  in  1962  बाल्टीमोर   ,  Maryland , the film revolves around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly  plump  '' teenager  ट्रेसी   turnblad  as she pursues stardom  as  a  नर्तकी   on  a local TV show and rallies against racial  पृथक्करण  .
Hairspray was only a moderate success upon its initial theatrical release , earning a modest gross of $ 8 million .
However , it managed to attract a larger  दर्शक  on home video in  the  early 1990s and became a cult  क्लासिक  .
Most critics praised the film ,  हालांकि   कुछ  were displeased with  the  overall campiness .
in  2002 ,  the  film was adapted into a Broadway musical of the  वही   नाम  , which won eight Tony Awards , including Best Musical in 2003 .
A second film version of Hairspray , an adaptation of the  स्टेज  musical , was also released by New Line Cinema in 2007 , which included many  परिवर्तन  of  scripted  items from the original .
the  film  भी  ranks # 444 on Empire magazine 's 2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all  समय  .
a   ईसाई  denomination is an identifiable  धार्मिक  body under a common  नाम  , structure , and  doctrine   भीतर  Christianity .
Some groups included do not consider themselves a denomination  (  e.g. , the Catholic Church considers itself the one  सच्चा  church  और   the  Apostolic See , and as pre-denominational ) .
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational  actively  resist being called a denomination and do not have  कोई  formal denominational structure , authority  ,  or record-keeping beyond the local congregation  ;  several groups  भीतर  Restoration Movement fall into  इस  category  .
Some groups are large ( e.g .  catholics  , Lutherans , Anglicans or Baptists ) , while others  हैं  just a few small churches  ,   और   in   सबसे  cases the relative size is not evident in this  सूची  .
आधुनिक  movements such  as  Fundamentalist Christianity , Pietism  ,  Evangelicalism  ,   pentecostalism   और   the   पवित्रता  movement sometimes cross denominational lines ,  or  in some cases create new denominations out of two or more continuing groups ,  (  as  is  the case for many United and  uniting  churches , for example ) .
Such  subtleties  and complexities are not clearly  चित्रित  here .
Major  विभाजन  within Christianity .
Note : This  is  not a complete list ,  लकिन  aims  to  provide a  comprehensible  overview  of   the  diversity  among  denominations of  christianity  .
As there are reported to be  लगभग  41,000 Christian  denominations  , many of which can not  be  verified to be significant ,  तभी  those denominations with Wikipedia  आलेख  will be listed in order  to  ensure that  सब   प्रविष्टियां  on this  सूची  are notable and verifiable  .
Between denominations , theologians , and comparative religionists there  हैं  considerable disagreements about which  समूह  can be properly called Christian , disagreements arising primarily from doctrinal differences between groups .
For the purpose of simplicity , this  सूची  is intended to reflect the self-understanding of each denomination .
Explanations of different  राय  concerning their status as Christian denominations can be found at  उनके  respective articles  .
There is no official recognition in most parts of the world for religious bodies ,  और  there is  no  official  clearinghouse  which could determine the status or respectability of religious bodies .
प्रायः  there is  considerable  disagreement  between  various churches about whether other churches  चाहिए  be labeled  साथ  pejorative  शर्तें  such as `` cult  ''  , or about whether  इस  or that group enjoys some  माप   of   respectability  .
Such considerations  प्रायः  vary  इससे  place to place ,  जहाँ  one  धार्मिक   समूह  may enjoy  बहुमत   औकात  in  एक  region , but  be   widely   regarded  as a  ``  dangerous cult '' in another  भाग  of the world  .
Inclusion on this list does not indicate any judgment  परिचय  the size  ,   महत्व   ,  or character  of  a group or its members .
1804 map of `` Louisiana ``  ,   edged  on the west by the Rocky Mountains  .
The Louisiana  खरीदें  ( `` Sale  of  Louisiana  ''  ) was the acquisition by the United States of America  in  1803 of of France 's  अर्जी  to the territory of Louisiana .
The U.S. paid 50  लाख  francs (  $  11 ,250,000  )   प्लस  cancellation of debts worth 18  लाख  francs ( $ 3,750,000 )  ,  for a total sum of  15  million dollars (  कम   than   3  cents per acre  )  for the Louisiana territory (  $   लाख  in  डॉलर   ,  less than 42 cents per acre )  .
The Louisiana territory encompassed all or  भाग  of 15 present U.S. states and two  कनाडाई  provinces .
The land purchased contained all of  present-day  Arkansas  ,  Missouri , Iowa , Oklahoma ,  कान्सास  ,  और  Nebraska  ;   भाग  of Minnesota that were west of the Mississippi River ; most of North Dakota  ;  most of  दक्षिण   डकोटा   ;  northeastern New Mexico ; northern Texas  ;  the portions of Montana , Wyoming , and Colorado east of the  महाद्वीपीय   divide  ;  louisiana  west  of  the Mississippi River , including the city  of  New Orleans ; and small portions of land  कि  would eventually  become  part of  the   कनाडाई   प्रांतों  of Alberta and Saskatchewan .
France controlled this vast area from 1699 until 1762 , the  साल  it gave the territory to its  ally   स्पेन  .
Under Napoleon  बोनापार्ट   ,  France took back  the  territory in 1800 in the hope of  भवन  an empire in North America .
A  स्लेव  revolt in Haiti and an impending war  साथ  Britain  ,  however , led France to abandon these plans and sell the entire territory to the United  राज्य  , who  था   originally  intended  तभी  to seek the purchase  of   नई  Orleans and its adjacent lands  .
The purchase of the territory of Louisiana  took  place during the  प्रेसिडेंसी  of Thomas Jefferson .
At the time , the purchase faced domestic  विपक्ष  because it was thought to be  असंवैधानिक  .
हालांकि  he agreed that the U.S. Constitution did not contain  प्रावधानों  for acquiring territory , Jefferson decided to go ahead with the  खरीदें  anyway in order  to  remove  फ़्रांस  's presence  in   the  region and to protect both U.S. trade access to the port of New Orleans and free passage on the Mississippi River .
Ceremony at Place d'Armes , New Orleans marking  ट्रांसफ़र  of Louisiana  to  the United States , 10 March 1804 , as depicted  by  Thure de Thulstrup  .
``  कूल   झटका  '' is  a  popular song written by Donald Storball and originally performed by  the   capitols  .
Released in  1966   ,  it reached No  .  2 on the American R & B  चार्ट  and No . 7 on  the  pop chart .
The backing  track   लिये  this song was actually  अंकित  ( secretly ) by the Motown  हाउस  band  the  Funk Brothers  .
प्रति   एक  of the  दुर्गंध  Brothers , the  सोंग  was originally to  be  called ``  pimp  Jerk  .  ''
This was  लिया   इससे  watching neighborhood  pimps   ,  who would dance in the  क्लब  , but were too `` cool '' to do the jerk  जैसे   नियमित  folks .
Their version was subsequently named `` the Pimp Jerk . ''
The producer was  भयभीत  that a song with the word pimp in  the  title would be  बैन  or not  प्राप्त  much positive attention , and had the title changed  to   इसके   वर्तमान  form .
the   go-go  's , Todd Rundgren , Big Trouble , Human  यौन  Response  ,   the  La De Da 's , The Creation , and  the   coasters  have covered the song .
Todd  rundgren  did his version in an odd time signature ( 7/4 )  ,  giving an obviously  jerky  feel to the song .
the  Go-Go 's covered  the  song for their 1982 album Vacation and  बाद   re-recorded  it for their 1990 album  महानतम  .
In the  विशेषता  film Home Alone 2 :  खोया  in  नई  York , Uncle  फ़्रैंक  ( Gerry Bamman ) sings `` Cool  झटका  ''  in   the  shower .
A version  of  the song with different lyrics ( ``  do  the Cool Whip  ''  ) is  प्रयुक्त  in  कूल   चाबुक   commercials  .
A recording of `` Cool  झटका  ''  by  Ricardo Ray is featured  in  the feature film Donnie Brasco ( 1997 ) .
the  song  सुविधाएँ   in  the film Standing  in  the Shadows  of   motown   ,  performed by the Funk Brothers with lead vocals by Bootsy  कॉलिन्स  .
The song is heard  briefly  in the animated feature , Madagascar 3 : Europe  's  Most Wanted  .
Despite this reason , it is listed in some variations  of  the film 's soundtrack .
a  league is a unit of  लंबाई  ( or , rarely , area  )  .
it  was long common in Europe  और  Latin America  ,  but it is no longer an  आधिकारिक  unit  in  any  स्वदेश  .
the  league originally referred  to   the  distance a person could walk in an hour .
Since the  मध्य  Ages  ,  many values have been specified in several countries .
In  the  context  of  nautical distances , the 3 mile ( 4.8 km ) distance corresponds to how far an observer of  औसत  height  (  5'9  ''  or 1.78 m  )  can see when standing at sea level  .
Thus , a ship  traveling  one `` league '' has  पहुँचे  what was previously  the   farthest  visible distance on  the  horizon .
The lack of a historical  और  global  मानक  for the exact measure of a  ``   लीग  ''  can  be accounted  लिये  by the variable elevation  of  the  निरीक्षक   (  i.e. , sightings from a  जलयान  's deck vs. masthead ) .
The Irish state came into  होने  in 1922  as  the Irish Free State , a dominion of the British Commonwealth ,  having  seceded from the United Kingdom under the  anglo-irish  Treaty .
It comprises  26  of Ireland 's  32  counties .
Since 1949 it has existed  as  the Republic of Ireland .
From its foundation  ,  the Irish Free  राज्य  was embroiled in a civil war  between  nationalists supporting  the   सन्धि  and opponents  जो   समर्थित  a republic  .
The pro-Treaty side ,  संगठित   as  Cumann na nGaedheal emerged victorious from the  विरोध  and won subsequent elections .
They formed the  सरकारी   of  the state until 1932 , when they  शांतिपूर्वक  handed  over  power to the anti-Treaty faction in Fianna Fáil ,  जो  defeated them in an election .
the  Irish state , despite  इसके  violent beginnings ,  रै   remained  a liberal democracy throughout its existence  .
A new constitution  in   1937  removed  अनेक  of the  कड़ी  with Britain  स्थापित   अंतर्गत   the  Treaty and Ireland  's  neutrality in the  दूसरी  World War demonstrated  इसके  independence  in   विदेशी   नीति  matters from Britain .
In 1948 Ireland  formally  left the British Commonwealth  और  adopted the title  of   ``  Republic '' .
In the  आर्थिक  sphere  ,  the Irish state has had a mixed  प्रदर्शन  .
on  independence , it was one of the wealthier countries in Europe  प्रति  head of population .
However it also inherited from British rule  the  problems of unemployment , emigration  ,  uneven geographical development and lack of a native industrial base .
For much  of  its history  ,  the state struggled to  rectify  these problems .
Particular peaks of  करणों   यहूद  recorded during  the  late 1930s , 1950s and 1980s  ,  when the Irish economy recorded little growth .
In the 1930s  ,   fianna   fáil  governments  attempted  to create Irish domestic industries using subsidies  और  protective tarifs  .
In  the  late 1950s ,  ये  policies were dropped  in  favour of  फ़्री  trade with selected countries and encouraging of foreign investment with low taxes .
This was expanded when Ireland entered the  यूरोपीय  Economic  जातियाँ  in 1972 .
in  the 1990s and  2000s   ,  Ireland  अनुभवी  an economic boom known  as  the Celtic Tiger  ,  in which the country 's  जीडीपी   surpassed   अनेक  of its European neighbours .
Immigration also  surpassed  emigration , bringing the state 's population up  to  over 4  लाख  .
However , since 2008 , Ireland has experienced  a   कठोर   संकट   in   the  banking  सेक्टर  and with sovereign  कर्ज़   .
The resultant economic  slump  has deepened the effect of the world recession on Ireland  .
From 1937 to 1998 , the Irish  संविधान  included  a  claim on Northern Ireland as a  भाग  of the national territory .
However , the state also opposed and used its  सुरक्षा   शक्तियां  against those  हथियारबंद  groups - principally the Provisional Irish Republican Army  ,  who  आजमाया  to unite Ireland  by  force  .
This occurred in the  1950s   ,  throughout the  1970s  and  1980s  and has continued on a reduced scale .
Irish  सरकारें  meanwhile tried  to  broker  an  agreement to the conflict  ज्ञात  as  the  Troubles  भीतर   उत्तरी  Ireland from 1968 to the late  1990s  .
The  अंग्रेजों  government officially recognised the right of  the  Irish  सरकारी  to be a party to the Northern negotiations in the Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985 .
In 1998 ,  as  part  of  the Good Friday Agreement  ,   the  Irish constitution was altered by referendum to remove the territorial claim  to  Northern Ireland  और  instead extend the right of Irish citizenship to all the people of  the  island should they wish  to  have it .
John Quincy Adams ( July 11  ,  1767February 23 , 1848 ) was the sixth President of  the  United States ( 1825–1829  )  .
He served as American diplomat  ,  Senator ,  और   congressional  representative .
He  थी  a member of  the   federalist   ,  Democratic-Republican ,  नेशनल  Republican , and  बाद   anti-masonic  and  whig  parties .
Adams was the son of former President John  एडम्स  and Abigail  एडम्स  .
As  a  diplomat ,  एडम्स  played an important role in negotiating  अनेक  international treaties  ,  most notably the  सन्धि   of  Ghent  ,  which  ended  the War of  1812  .
As Secretary of State , he negotiated with the United Kingdom over America 's northern border with  कनाडा  , negotiated  साथ  Spain the annexation of Florida , and authored  the  Monroe  doctrine  .
Historians agree  he  was one of the greatest  राजनयिकों   और  secretaries of state in American history .
As president ,  he  sought to  modernize  the American economy and  प्रचारित  education .
Adams enacted a  भाग   of  his agenda  और  paid off much  of  the national debt .
He was stymied by  a  Congress controlled by his enemies ,  और  his lack of patronage  संजाल  helped politicians eager  to   undercut  him  .
He lost his 1828 bid for re-election to Andrew Jackson .
In doing  so  , he became the first president since his father to  serve   a  single term .
Adams is best  ज्ञात   as   a  diplomat who shaped  अमेरिका  's foreign policy  in  line with his ardently nationalist commitment to America  's   रिपब्लिकन  values  .
More recently Howe ( 2007 ) portrayed Adams  as  the exemplar and moral leader in an era of modernization  .
दौरान  Adams ' lifetime  ,  technological  नवप्रवर्तनों  and new means of  संचार  spread messages of religious  पुनरुद्धार  , social reform , and party  राजनीती  .
Goods , money , and people  traveled  more rapidly and efficiently  than  ever before .
Adams was elected a U.S. Representative  इससे  Massachusetts after leaving  दफ्तर  , serving for the last 17 years of his life with far greater acclamation  than  he had achieved  as  president .
He is , so  दूर  , the only president later elected  to  the  संयुक्त  States House of Representatives ( though John Tyler was elected to the House of Representatives of  the  Confederate States just before his death in  1862  )  .
Animated by his  growing   revulsion  against slavery , Adams became a leading opponent of the  स्लेव  Power .
He predicted that if a civil war were to break  आउट   ,   the  president could abolish slavery  by  using  उसके   युद्ध  powers .
एडम्स  also predicted the Union 's dissolution  over   the  slavery issue , but said  कि  if the South became independent there would  be  a series of bloody slave  revolts  .
खिड़कियाँ   अंतरजाल  Explorer 9 ( IE9 )  is  a version  of  the  अंतरजाल  Explorer web browser from  microsoft   .
it  was released to  the  public  on  March 14 , 2011 .
Microsoft has  released  Internet Explorer 9 as a  प्रमुख  out-of-band version that is not tied to the release schedule of any particular version of  खिड़कियाँ  ,  नापसंद  previous versions  .
it  is the  पहला  version  चूंकि  Internet Explorer 2 to not be bundled  साथ  a  खिड़कियाँ  operating  प्रणाली   ,  although  कुछ  OEMs  have  installed it with  खिड़कियाँ  7 on  उनके  PCs , as well as  नई  Windows  7   लैपटॉप  .
The system requirements for Internet Explorer  9  are Windows 7 , Windows Server 2008  r2  , Windows  विस्टा   सेवा  Pack  2  or Windows Server 2008 SP2  साथ   the  Platform Update .
Windows XP and earlier are  नहीं  supported .
Internet  एक्सप्लोरर  9 is the  पिछला  version of Internet Explorer to be supported on Windows Vista .
दोनो   ia-32  and x64 builds are available  .
Internet  एक्सप्लोरर  9 supports several CSS  3  properties , embedded ICC v2 or  v4  color profiles support via Windows Color  प्रणाली   ,  and has improved JavaScript performance  .
It is the last of the  पाँच   प्रमुख  web browsers to implement support for Scalable Vector Graphics (  svg  ) .
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics rendering using  direct2d  , hardware-accelerated text rendering using DirectWrite , hardware-accelerated video  रेंडरिंग  using Media Foundation ,  इमेजिंग  support provided by  खिड़कियाँ  Imaging  घटक  , and  ऊँची   वफ़ादारी  printing  संचालित  by  the  XML Paper Specification ( XPS ) print  पाइपलाइन  .
Internet Explorer  9  also  supports  the HTML5 video and  ऑडियो   टैग  and  the  Web  खोलें  Font  स्वरूप  .
alka-seltzer  is an effervescent antacid and pain reliever first  marketed   by  the Dr .  मील  Medicine Company  .
it  was developed  by  Maurice Treener , head chemist at Miles  ,  in  elkhart   ,   इंडियाना  .
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for relief of minor aches  ,  pains  ,  inflammation  ,   ज्वर  , headache ,  heartburn   ,  sour stomach , indigestion , and hangovers , while neutralizing excess  पेट   एसिड  .
It was launched in 1931 .
A  spin-off  of Alka-Seltzer made to relieve colds and flu ,  alka-seltzer  Plus , was  बाद   introduced  .
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin variant ,  alka-mints  , was introduced  in  1994  और  discontinued  in  1997 .
alka-seltzer  is currently owned by Bayer Schering  फार्मा  AG , Germany .
The  नाम  `` Alka-Seltzer  ''  has been extended to  चरितार्थ  an entire line  of  medications sold over the  काउंटर  and taken by means  of  rapidly dissolving tablets  कि  form a  कार्बोनेटेड  solution in water .
Cherry  अलका  Seltzer Plus Tablet  dissolving  in water
Image showing the six most  आम  speleothems  साथ  labels .
Enlarge to view labels .
A stalactite ( , ; from  the  Greek stalasso , ( σταλάσσω )  ,  `` to drip '' ,  और  meaning `` that which  drips  '' )  is  a type  of  speleothem  (   द्वितीयक   खनिज  ) that  hangs  from the ceiling of  चूना  caves .
It is a type of dripstone .
The corresponding  गठन  on the floor of the cave is known as a stalagmite .
Degree abbreviations are used as an alternative way to specify an academic degree  बजाय  of  स्पेलिंग  out the title  in  full , such as in reference  किताबे  like Who 's  जो  and on business cards .
Many degrees have  अधिक   than  one abbreviation .
In the UK , it is not  generally   the  custom to punctuate abbreviations for degrees with full stops ( e.g . ``  बीएससी  '' rather than  ``  B.Sc . `` .
Race is a classification system used to categorize humans into large and distinct populations  or  groups  by  anatomical , cultural  ,  ethnic  ,  genetic  ,   भौगोलिक  , historical , linguistic , religious , or social affiliation .
First used  to  denote  नेशनल   संबद्धों  , the term began  to  be used to relate to physical traits  in  the 17th  सदी   .
In the early 20th century the term  थी  often used ,  in  a taxonomic sense , to denote genetically differentiated human populations defined  by   phenotype  .
जबकि  biologists sometimes use the  अवधारणा  of  रेस  to make  भेद  among fuzzy sets of traits , others in the scientific community suggest that the idea of race  प्रायः  is used in  a   भोली  or  simplistic  way  ,  i.e . that  among  humans , race has no  taxonomic  significance : all living  इंसानो   belong  to the same species  ,  Homo sapiens and subspecies ,  होमो  sapiens sapiens .
Social conceptions and groupings of races vary  over  time , involving folk taxonomies
that define of individuals based on  आभास   traits  .
Scientists consider  biological  essentialism  obsolete  , and generally  discourage  racial  स्पष्टीकरण  for collective differentiation  in  both physical and behavioral traits .
Since the second half of the 20th century the associations of race with  the  ideologies and theories that grew out  of  the  कार्य  of  19th-century  anthropologists and physiologists has led to  the  use of the word race itself  बनने  problematic .
Although still used  in  general contexts  ,  it is now often replaced by other words which are less ambiguous  और  emotionally charged ,  ऐसे  as populations ,  लोगों  ( s  )  , ethnic  समूह  or  समुदायों  depending  on  context .
Lucy Stone  (  August 13  ,  1818 – October 19 ,  1893   )  was a prominent American abolitionist and suffragist ,  और  a vocal advocate and organizer promoting rights  लिये  women .
In 1847 , Stone  became  the first woman from Massachusetts to  earn  a college degree .
She spoke out for women 's  अधिकारों   और  against slavery at a time when women were discouraged and prevented from public speaking .
Stone was the  पहला  recorded American woman to  retain  her own last name after marriage .
Stone 's organizational activities for the cause of women 's  अधिकारों  yielded tangible  gains  in the difficult political  पर्यावरण  of the  19th  century .
Stone helped initiate the first National Women 's Rights  सम्मेलन  and she supported and sustained it annually along with a number of other local , state and regional activist conventions .
Stone spoke in front of a number of legislative bodies to  प्रचार  laws giving  अधिक  rights to women .
She  assisted  in establishing the Woman  's  National  वफ़ादार  League to help pass the Thirteenth Amendment and thereby abolish slavery , after which she helped form the largest group  of  like-minded women  's  rights reformers , the politically moderate American Woman Suffrage Association  ,  which worked  लिये  decades at the state  स्तर   in  favor of women  's  right to  vote   .
Stone wrote extensively about a wide  दायरा  of women  's  rights ,  प्रकाशन  and distributing  भाषणों  by herself and others , and convention  कार्यवाही   .
In the long-running and influential Woman 's  जर्नल  ,  a  weekly periodical that she established and promoted , Stone aired  दोनो   उसके  own and differing views about women 's rights  .
Called `` the orator '' and `` the morning star of the woman 's rights  गति  ''  ,  Stone delivered  a  speech which  sparked   सुसान  B. Anthony to  लो  up the cause of women 's  suffrage   .
Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote that  ``  Lucy  स्टोन   थी  the first person by whom the heart of the American public was  deeply   stirred  on  the  woman question . ''
Together , Anthony , Stanton  ,   और  Stone have  महरूम   पुकारा  the 19th century `` triumvirate ``  of   महिलाओं   's   suffrage   और   नारीवाद  .
In  वित्त  , a bond is an instrument of indebtedness  of  the bond issuer to the holders .
it   is  a debt security , under  जिससे  the issuer  owes  the holders  a  debt and , depending on  the   शर्तें  of the bond , is obliged to pay them interest ( the coupon ) or to repay the principal at a later date , termed the maturity .
Interest  is   प्रायः  payable  at  fixed intervals ( semiannual , annual , sometimes monthly ) .
बहुत  often the bond is negotiable , i.e . the ownership of the instrument can be transferred in  the  secondary market .
Thus a  बंध  is a form of loan  or   iou  : the holder  of  the  बंध  is the lender  (  creditor  )  , the issuer of the  बंध  is the borrower ( debtor ) , and  the   कूपन  is the  ब्याज  .
Bonds provide  the   borrower  with external  निधि  to finance long-term investments , or , in the case of  सरकारी  bonds , to finance current expenditure .
प्रमाणपत्र   of  deposit ( CDs ) or short  पद  commercial  पेपर  are considered to be  धन  market instruments and not bonds : the main  अंतर   is  in the length of the term of  the  instrument .
bonds  and stocks  हैं  both securities  ,  but the major  अंतर  between the two is that  (  capital )  stockholders   have  an equity stake in the company (  i.e  . they are owners ) ,  whereas  bondholders have a creditor  हिस्सेदारी   in  the company  (  i.e .  वे  are lenders )  .
Another difference is that bonds usually have a defined term , or maturity , after which the bond is redeemed ,  whereas  stocks may be outstanding indefinitely .
An exception is an irredeemable bond , such  as  Consols ,  जिससे  is a perpetuity , i.e . a bond with no maturity .
A scale model of the Tower of London .
This model  can  be found inside  the  tower .
स्केल   मॉडल  of water powered turbine
L  to  R with 12 inch  शासक  at bottom : 1:64 Matchbox Chevrolet Tahoe  ,  1:43  घाट  F-100 , 1:25 Revell Monogram 1999  घाट  Mustang Cobra , 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
Model ships and castle
A scale model is a physical model , a representation or copy  of  an object that is larger or smaller  than   the  actual size  of  the object ,  जिससे  seeks to maintain the  सापेक्ष   proportions  ( the scale factor ) of the physical size  of  the original object .
बहुत  often the scale  मॉडल  is used as a guide to making the object in full size .
Scale  मॉडल  are  निर्मित  or collected  लिये  many reasons .
The Zune HD was a  पोर्टेबल  media  खिलाड़ी  in the  zune   उत्पाद  family  released  on September 15 ,  2009  by Microsoft .
It was a direct  प्रतिस्पर्धी  with the Apple iPod and iPhone series of  मोबाईल   डिवाइस  .
It was initially released in  16   और  32 GB capacities  .
A 64  gb  version was released on April 9  ,  2010 .
It utilized  a  touchscreen  इंटरफ़ेस  for navigation  और  included Wi-Fi for synchronization , access to the  zune  Marketplace and Web browsing .
The Zune  hd  utilized the Nvidia Tegra APX 2600 chip , allowing it  to  play 720p video through  the   वैकल्पिक  HDMI Zune dock  on   a  high-definition television  .
Otherwise  ,  content would be scaled down  to   480x272  pixels on the player  's  OLED touchscreen .
Old Sparky , the electric chair used at Sing Sing prison
निष्पादन  by electrocution , usually  performed  using an electric chair , is an  निष्पादन  method originating in the  संयुक्त  States in  जिससे  the condemned person is strapped to a specially built wooden chair and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the  देह  .
इस  execution  विधि  was created  by  employees of Thomas Edison during  the  War  of  Currents  ,   और  has been  प्रयुक्त   तभी  in the United States  और   ,   लिये  a period of several decades , in the Philippines ( its first use there in 1924 under  अमरीकी  occupation , last  in  1976 ) .
Historically , once the condemned person was  संलग्न  to the chair , various cycles ( differing in voltage and  अवधि  ) of alternating current would be passed through the individual 's body , in order to cause fatal  क्षति  to  the  internal organs (  सहित   the  brain ) .
The first  धक्का  of  इलेक्ट्रिक  current was designed to cause immediate unconsciousness and brain death ;  the   दूसरी  one was  designed   to  cause  fatal  damage to the vital organs .
Death was frequently caused by  विद्युत  overstimulation of  the   दिल  .
Although in the United States  the   इलेक्ट्रिक  chair  रै  become a symbol of the death penalty ,  इसके   उपयोग  is  in  decline  due  to the rise of  lethal  injection , which  is   widely   believed   to  be a more humane method of execution .
Although  कुछ  states  स्टिल  maintain  electrocution   as  a method of execution , today it  is  only maintained as a secondary method that may  be  chosen over lethal injection at  the   निवेदन  of the prisoner .
As  of  2010 , electrocution is an optional form  of  execution in Alabama  ,  Florida , South Carolina and Virginia .
They allow the prisoner to choose lethal  इंजेक्शन  as an alternative method .
In the states of Kentucky and Tennessee , the electric chair has  महरूम  retired except for those whose capital crimes  यहूद   वचनबद्ध  prior to  legislated  dates in 1998  (  Kentucky : March  31  , 1998 ; Tennessee : December 31 ,  1998  ) and who chose electrocution .
In both states ,  inmates  who  do   नहीं   चुनें  electrocution or  inmates  who committed  उनके  crimes  बाद  the  designated  date are  मारे  by lethal  इंजेक्शन  .
The electric chair is  an  alternate form of execution  स्वीकृत  for potential use in Arkansas  और  Oklahoma if other forms of  निष्पादन  are found  असंवैधानिक  in the state at  the   समय  of execution  .
It is the sole method  of  execution in Vermont , where treason is the only capital crime .
On February 8 , 2008  ,  the Nebraska Supreme Court  संकल्पित  that execution by electric chair was a `` cruel and unusual punishment  ''  under the  राज्य   's  constitution .
This  brought  executions of this type to an end in Nebraska , the only remaining state to retain electrocution as its sole method  of  execution for murder .
The  मेरीलैंड  House of Delegates  is  the lower house  of  the General  सभा  , the  राज्य  legislature of the  अमरीकी  State of Maryland , and is composed of  141  Delegates elected from 47 districts .
the  House of Delegates Chamber is located  in  the  मेरीलैंड  State House ( state capitol )  on  State Circle in Annapolis , which is the state  पूंजी  .
The  राज्य  House  भी  houses the Maryland  राज्य   सीनेट  Chamber and the offices of the Governor  और  Lieutenant Governor of  the  State  of  Maryland .
Each  प्रतिनिधि   रै  offices in  annapolis  , in the nearby Casper R. Taylor , Jr. House Office Building .
the  Liberation of  पेरिस  ( also known as the Battle for Paris  )  took place during World War II  इससे  19 August  1944  until the  आत्मसमर्पण  of the occupying German garrison on 25 August .
The  मुक्ति  of Paris started with an uprising  by  the French  प्रतिरोध   विरूद्ध  the German garrison .
On 24  अगस्त  , the French  शक्तियां  of  the  Interior  (  Forces  françaises  de l'intérieur , FFI  )  received reinforcements from the Free French  फौज   of  Liberation and from  the   u.S.  Third Army under General Patton .
The  पूंजी  region of France had been governed by Nazi Germany  चूंकि  the signing of the Second  compiègne  Armistice in June 1940 , when the German  फौज  occupied northern  और  westernmost France , and  जब   the  puppet regime of Vichy France was established in the  कस्बा   of  Vichy in central France .
इस  battle marked the liberation  of  Paris and the exile of the Vichy government to Sigmaringen in Germany .
However , there was still much heavy fighting to be done before  फ़्रांस   थी  liberated  ,  including the campaign in southern France during  august-september  ( in Provence and  extending  into  the  southwestern region of the Vosges Mountains ) ,  साथ   the  German-held seaports of western France  (  such as at Brest and Dunkirk  )  ,  in   alsace   और  Lorraine in  पूर्वी  France ,  और  in northeastern France  ,  such  as   साथ  the Rhine and  moder  Rivers .
the   जर्मनी  Army and SS fought doggedly in these areas for the remainder of 1944  और  into 1945 .
``  Feelin ' Alright ? '' also known as ``  अहसास   alright   ''   is  a song written by  डेव  Mason of  the  English rock  बैंड  Traffic  इससे  their eponymous 1968 album , Traffic  .
The song was  भी  a hit single for several performers : Joe Cocker ( 1969 , # 69 , recharted in 1972 ,  us   #  33 ) ,  mongo  Santamaría ( 1969  ,   #  95 ) and Grand  दुर्गंध  Railroad ( 1971 , US # 54  )  .
It has  भी  been recorded by Three Dog  रात्रि  ( 1969 ) , The 5th Dimension ( 1970 ) , Lou  राल्स  , Freddie King , Paul  weller  , Lulu , Chairmen of the Board ( 1970 ) , Rare  धरती  , The  इलेक्ट्रिक  Concept  ऑर्केस्ट्रा  , Mother 's Finest (  1973  ) , The Ohio Players ( 1971 ) , Diana  रॉस  with  the  Jackson 5 ( 1971 )  ,  Maceo Parker  ,  Gladys  नाईट  & the Pips , Widespread Panic and  the  Black Crowes .
A Steel Drum version by Trinidad Oil  कम्पनी  was reissued on the dancefloor jazz compilation  ब्लू   रस   2  .
It was also  प्रदर्शित  in the 2000 film Duets  ,  sung  by  Huey Lewis .
Both the original and  the  Joe Cocker cover were  प्रदर्शित  in the movie Flight ,  अभिनीत  Denzel Washington .
Devon  werkheiser  ( born March 8,1991  )  is  an  American  कर्ता  , voice actor ,  सिंगर  , songwriter and musician  ,  best known for  उसके   अभिनीत  role as Ned Bigby  on   the  Nickelodeon sitcom  ned  's Declassified  स्कूल  Survival Guide and  लिये  his role in the 2007 TV Movie Shredderman Rules ,  as  the lead character Nolan Byrd .
Werkheiser also played Peter Parkes  in  the fourth  और  final season of  the  ABC Family show  यूनानी  .
नमूना  view of an electronic health record  आधारित  on images
Sample  दृश्य  of  an  electronic health  रिकार्ड
An electronic health  रिकार्ड  ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a systematic  संग्रहण  of electronic  स्वास्थ्य  information about individual patients or populations  .
it  is a record in  डिजिटल  format that  is  theoretically capable  of  being shared across  अलग  health care settings .
In some cases this sharing can occur by way  of  network-connected  enterprise-wide  information systems and other information networks or exchanges .
EHRs may include  a  range of data , including demographics ,  चिकित्सा  history , medication  और  allergies  ,  immunization status , laboratory  परीक्षण   परिणाम  , radiology images , vital signs  ,  personal stats  जैसे  age and weight , and billing information  .
Loan origination is the process by  जिससे   a   borrower  applies for a new loan , and a lender processes that application .
Origination generally  शामिल   सब   the  steps from  लेने  a loan  अनुप्रयोग  up to disbursal of funds  (  or declining  the  application  )  .
ऋण   सर्विसिंग   कवर   सबकुछ   बाद   disbursing  the  निधि   जबतक   the   ऋण  is fully paid  बंद  .
Loan  origination  is  a  specialized  संस्करण  of new account opening for financial services organizations  .
Certain people and organizations specialize in loan  origination  .
Mortgage brokers and other mortgage originator  कंपनियाँ  serve  as  a  prominent  example .
There are many different types of loans .
For more  सूचना  on loan  प्रकार  , see the loan and consumer  lending  articles .
Steps involved in originating a  ऋण   vary  by loan type , various kinds of loan risk , regulator , lender policy , and other  कारकों  .
Top left :  the  Tennessee Valley Authority , part of the New Deal , being signed into  विधि  in  1933  .
Top  सही  : Franklin  delano  Roosevelt ,  जो  was  जिम्मेदार  for initiatives and programs  collectively  known as the New Deal  .
Bottom :  a  public mural from one of the artists employed  by  the New Deal  .
The New Deal was a  श्रेणी  of economic programs enacted in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  between 1933  और   1936  .
They involved presidential executive  आदेश  or laws passed by Congress during the  पहला  term of  अध्यक्ष  Franklin D. Roosevelt .
the  programs  यहूद  in  जवाब  to the Great Depression , and focused  on  what historians  कॉल  the  ``  3 Rs '' : Relief , Recovery  ,  and Reform .
कि   is  Relief for the unemployed and  ग़रीब  ; Recovery of the economy to normal levels ; and Reform of the financial system to  prevent  a  repeat  depression .
The New Deal produced  a  political  realignment  , making the Democratic  पार्टी   the  majority ( as well as the party that held the  श्वेत   हाउस   लिये  seven out  of  nine Presidential terms from 1933 to 1969 ) , with its base  in  liberal ideas ,  the  white South  ,  traditional  डेमोक्रेट  , big city machines , and  the   newly  empowered labor unions and ethnic minorities .
the  Republicans  यहूद  split , with conservatives  opposing  the entire New Deal as  an  enemy of business and growth , and liberals  accepting  some of  it  and promising to make it more efficient  .
The realignment  crystallized   into  the New Deal Coalition  कि  dominated most presidential elections  into   the  1960s , while the opposition Conservative Coalition  largely  controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963 .
By  1936  the term `` liberal '' typically was used for  समर्थक  of the New Deal , and `` conservative `` for its opponents .
From 1934 to 1938 ,  रूज़वेल्ट  was assisted in his  endeavours  by a “pro-spender”  बहुमत  in  कॉंग्रेस  ( drawn  इससे  two-party  ,  competitive , non-machine , Progressive  ,  and Left party districts ) .
as   विख्यात  by  सिकंदर  Hicks , “Roosevelt  ,  backed by rare , non-Southern Democrat majorities  —   270  non-Southern Democrat representatives  और  71 non-Southern Democrat senators —  spelled  Second New Deal reform.”
Many historians distinguish between  a  ``  पहला  New  सौदे  '' (  1933–34   )  and a ``  दूसरी  New  सौदे  '' ( 1935–38 )  ,  with  the  second one  अधिक  liberal  और  more controversial  .
The ``  पहला  New Deal '' ( 1933–34 )  dealt  with diverse groups  ,   इससे  banking  और  railroads to industry and farming , all of which  मांगे  help for economic  अस्तित्व  .
the  Federal Emergency  राहत  Administration , for instance , provided $ 500  लाख  for  राहत  operations by states and cities , while the short-lived  cwa  (  सिविल   works  Administration  )  gave localities money  to  operate make-work projects in  1933-34  .
The `` Second New  सौदे  `` in 1935–38  शामिल  the  वेगनर  Act to promote  मजदूर  unions , the Works Progress Administration ( WPA )  राहत   कार्यक्रम   (  which  बना  the federal  सरकारी   by  far the  largest   सिंगल  employer in the nation ) , the Social Security Act , and new  कार्यक्रम   to  aid  किरायेदार   किसानो  and migrant workers .
The final major items of New Deal legislation  यहूद  the creation of the United States Housing Authority and Farm  सुरक्षा   प्रशासन  , both in  1937  ,  और  the Fair Labor  मानकों  Act of 1938 ,  जिससे  set maximum hours and minimum wages  लिये   सबसे  categories of  मजदूर   .
The economic downturn  of  1937–38  ,   और  the bitter  विभाजित   between  the AFL and CIO labor unions led to major Republican  gains  in  कॉंग्रेस  in 1938 .
रूढ़िवादी  Republicans and Democrats in Congress joined  in  the informal  रूढ़िवादी   गठबन्धन  .
by  1942–43 they shut down relief  कार्यक्रम  such as  the   wpa  and CCC  और  blocked major liberal proposals .
रूज़वेल्ट  himself turned his attention to the war effort , and  जीती  reelection in 1940  और  1944 .
The  परम्  Court declared the National Recovery Administration ( NRA  )  and the first version of the Agricultural Adjustment Act ( AAA ) unconstitutional , however the AAA was rewritten and then upheld  .
As the first Republican president  निर्वाचित   बाद  FDR , Dwight D.  आइज़नहावर  ( 1953–61 ) left  the  New Deal  largely  intact ,  भी  expanding it in some  क्षेत्रों   .
in  the 1960s , Lyndon B. Johnson  's  Great Society  प्रयुक्त   the  New Deal as inspiration for a  नाटकीय   विस्तार  of liberal programs  ,  which Republican Richard M. Nixon generally retained .
After 1974 ,  however  ,  the   कॉल  for deregulation of the economy gained  bipartisan  support .
The New Deal  विनियमन  of banking ( Glass–Steagall Act  )  was suspended in the 1990s .
Many  नई  Deal  कार्यक्रम  remain active , with some still operating under the original names , including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) , the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation ( FCIC ) , the Federal  आवास  Administration  (  FHA ) , and the Tennessee Valley Authority  (  TVA ) .
The largest programs still in existence today are the Social Security System and the Securities and Exchange  आयोग  ( SEC  )   .
A woman (  )  ,  pl   :  women ( ) is a female human  .
The term  स्त्री  is usually reserved for an adult  ,  with the term girl being the usual term for a female child or adolescent  .
However  ,  the term woman  is  also  sometimes   प्रयुक्त  to identify a female human , regardless of age , as in phrases such  as  `` Women  's   अधिकारों  `` .
महिलाओं   हैं  typically capable of giving birth , though older  महिलाओं  who have gone  through   रजोनिवृत्ति   और  some intersex women can not .
`` I  do  n't Want  to  Miss  a  Thing '' is a song  performed  by  अमरीकी  rock band Aerosmith for the  1998  film Armageddon .
लिखा  by Diane Warren , the song debuted at number one  on  the Billboard Hot 100 ( the first # 1 for the band after 28 years together ) .
The song stayed  at  number one for four weeks from September 5 to September 26 , 1998 .
the  song also stayed at number 1 for several weeks  in  several  अन्य  countries .
In the UK , the song peaked at number four  ,   बनने  Aerosmith 's highest charting song in the UK  ,  where it  थी  the  17th  best-selling single  of  1998 , and  रै   बेची   over  a  लाख  copies  .
Although not used  by   the  majority  of  the world 's countries , daylight saving  समय  is common  in   the  Western world .
Daylight saving time ( DST ) —also summer time  in   अंग्रेजों  English —  is  the practice of advancing  घड़ियाँ   दौरान  the lighter months so that evenings have  अधिक  daylight  और  mornings  have  less  .
typically  clocks are adjusted forward one hour near the start of  वसन्त   और  are adjusted backward in autumn .
The modern idea of daylight saving was first proposed in 1895 by  जार्ज  Vernon Hudson and  it   थी  first implemented during the First World War .
अनेक  countries  have  used it at various  टाइम्स  since then .
Much of the United States used  dst  in the 1950s and 1960s  ,  and  dst  use expanded following the 1970s  उर्जा   संकट  and has been widely used in North  अमेरिका  and Europe since then .
The practice  रै  been both praised and  criticized  .
adding  daylight to  evenings  benefits  retailing  , sports ,  और  other activities that exploit sunlight after working hours  ,   लकिन  can cause problems for evening entertainment and other occupations  tied  to the sun .
Although an early  लक्ष्य   of   dst   थी  to  reduce  evening  उपयोग  of incandescent lighting (  formerly   a  primary use of electricity ) ,  आधुनिक  heating and cooling usage patterns differ greatly , and research  परिचय  how DST currently affects energy use  is  limited or contradictory .
dst  clock shifts present  अन्य   चुनौतियां   .
वे  complicate timekeeping  ,  and can disrupt meetings  ,   सफर  , billing  ,  record keeping , medical devices  ,   भारी  equipment ,  और  sleep patterns .
Software can often adjust computer clocks  automatically  ,  लकिन  this can  be  limited and error-prone  ,  particularly  जब   dst  dates  हैं  changed  .
Floorplan of  the  Château de Montargis
Montargis is a commune in the Loiret department  in  north-central  फ़्रांस  on the  loing  river .
The town  is  located about south  of  Paris and east of  orléans  in the Gâtinais .
Montargis is the second largest city in the Loiret , after Orléans .
It is near a large forest ,  और  contains light industry  और  farming , including  केसरिया   .
Due to its numerous  नहरों  and bridges  ,  Montargis sometimes bills itself as the `` Venice  of  the Gâtinais . ''
Though quite modern , it retains a medieval  आकर्षण  in its downtown area .
In computer  भंडार   ,  a logical  ईकाई  number , or LUN , is a number  प्रयुक्त  to identify a logical unit , which is a device addressed by the SCSI protocol or protocols which encapsulate SCSI  ,   ऐसे   as  Fibre Channel  or  iSCSI .
a   lun  may be used with any  यंत्र  which supports read/write  परिचालन  , such as  a  tape drive  ,  but  is   सबसे   प्रायः  used to  refer  to a logical disk as created on a SAN .
Though not technically  सही  , the term  ``  LUN  ''  is  प्रायः  also used  to  refer  to  the logical  डिस्क   itself  .
The Gospel  according  to Mark ( ,  ,  to euangelion kata Markon ) ,  commonly  shortened  to  the Gospel of Mark or simply Mark , is  the  second book  of  the  नई  Testament  .
This canonical account  of  the life  of  Jesus of Nazareth is one of  the  three synoptic gospels .
It was thought to  be  an epitome ,  जिससे  accounts for its place as the second gospel in the  बाइबल  .
however  , most contemporary  विद्वानों  now regard it as  the   earliest  of the  canonical  gospels ( c 70  )   .
That Mark was used as a  सोर्स  for the other synoptic  gospels  Gospel  of  Matthew and Gospel of Luke is widely  आयोजित   by  many  ,  although not all , New Testament scholars .
the   इन्जील  of Mark narrates the  मंत्रालय  of Jesus from his  बपतिस्मा  by John  the  Baptist to his death and resurrection .
It focuses particularly on the last week of his life  (  chapters 11–16  )  in Jerusalem .
इसके  swift narrative portrays Jesus as a heroic man of action , an exorcist ,  healer  and  चमत्कार  worker .
An important  थीम   of   चिह्नित  is the Messianic Secret .
Jesus silences  the  demoniacs he heals  ,  tries unsuccessfully to keep his  मुक्तिदाता   पहचान  secret  ,  and conceals his message with parables .
Meanwhile , the disciples fail to  समझे   दोनो  the implication of  the  miracles of Jesus and  the  meaning of the things  he   predicts   परिचय  his  गिरफ़्तार  , death and  क़यामत  .
Most scholars believe that  the   असली  text of the gospel ends at Mark  16:8  with the discovery of Jesus  '  empty tomb and that the following account  of  his resurrection appearances is a later addition .
According to tradition and some early  गिरिजाघर  writers  ,  the author is Mark the  इंजीलवादी  , the  साथी   of  the apostle  पीटर  .
The gospel , however , appears to  rely  on several underlying sources , varying in form and in theology  ,  which tells  विरूद्ध  the tradition that  the  gospel was based on Peter 's preaching .
The text is a  संकलन  which may include  eye-witness  accounts as well as known apostolic preachings  ,  and pre-existing written records that do not  मौजूद   आज  but can be confirmed from 2nd-century commentators  .
Some of the  कहानियां   in  the gospel may have been  transmitted  orally  पहले  being written down .
Various elements within the gospel  सुझाएँ  that the author wrote in  सीरियाई   or  Palestine for a non-Jewish Christian community  .
The Lord of the  बजती   is  an  एपिक   ऊँची  fantasy novel  लिखा  by English  भाषाशास्त्री   और  University of  ऑक्सफोर्ड  professor J. R. R. Tolkien  .
The story began as a sequel to Tolkien 's 1937 children  's  fantasy novel The  होब्बिट  ,  लकिन  eventually developed into a much larger  कार्य  .
It was written in  चरण  between 1937  और  1949 , much of it  दौरान  World War II .
It is the second  best-selling  novel ever written , with  over  150 million copies sold .
The title of the  अनोखा  refers to the story 's main antagonist , the Dark Lord  sauron  , who had in  an  earlier age created the One  रिंग  to rule the other Rings of Power as the  परम  weapon in his  अभियान  to conquer and rule all of Middle-earth .
From  शांत  beginnings in the Shire , a Hobbit land not  नापसंद  the  अंग्रेज़ी  countryside  ,  the story ranges across north-west Middle-earth , following the course of the War of the Ring through the eyes of its characters ,  notably   the  hobbits  frodo   baggins  , Samwise `` Sam ''  gamgee  , Meriadoc `` Merry '' Brandybuck and Peregrin `` Pippin '' Took ,  लकिन  also the  hobbits  ' chief allies  और   यात्राएं  companions : Aragorn , a Human  रेंजर  ; Boromir , a  man   इससे  Gondor ; Gimli  ,  a Dwarf warrior ; Legolas , an Elven prince ; and Gandalf , a Wizard .
The  कार्य  was initially intended by Tolkien to be  एक  volume  of  a two-volume set ,  साथ  the  अन्य  being The Silmarillion , but this  विचार  was dismissed  by  his publisher .
It was  decided  for  आर्थिक  reasons  to  publish  the  Lord of the Rings as three volumes over  the  course  of  a year  इससे   29  July 1954 to 20 October 1955  ,  thus creating the now familiar Lord of the Rings trilogy .
The three volumes were entitled The Fellowship of the Ring , The Two Towers ,  और   the  Return of the King .
Structurally  ,  the novel  is  divided internally into six books , two per volume , with several appendices  of   पृष्ठभूमि  material included at the end  of  the third  आवाज़  .
The Lord of the  बजती  has since been reprinted  numerous   टाइम्स  and translated into many languages .
Tolkien 's  कार्य  has been the subject of extensive analysis of its  विषयवस्तु  and origins .
हालांकि  a major work in itself ,  the  story was  तभी  the last movement of a larger epic Tolkien had worked on since 1917 ,  in   a  process he described as  mythopoeia  .
प्रभाव  on this earlier work , and on the story of The Lord of the  बजती  ,  शामिल  philology ,  mythology   ,   धर्म  and  the  author 's distaste for the effects of industrialization , as well as  पहले  fantasy  works  and Tolkien 's  अनुभवों  in World War I  .
The Lord of the Rings in its turn  is   माना  to have had a great effect on modern fantasy ; the impact of  tolkien  's works  is  such  कि  the use of the words `` Tolkienian '' and  ``  Tolkienesque  ''  have been  अंकित  in the  ऑक्सफोर्ड  English Dictionary .
The enduring popularity of The Lord of the  बजती  has led to  numerous  references in popular culture , the  founding  of many societies by fans  of  Tolkien  's   works  , and the publication of many books about  tolkien  and  उसके  works .
The Lord of the Rings  रै  inspired , and continues to inspire , artwork ,  म्यूज़िक  , films  और  television  ,  video games , and subsequent literature .
Award-winning adaptations of The Lord of  the  Rings have been made for radio  ,   थिएटर  , and film .
The following is an episode list for  the  Nickelodeon sitcom Drake  &  Josh .
The series debuted  on  January 11 , 2004 .
A TV film Merry Christmas , Drake & Josh was made  अलावा  from the regular series on December 5 ,  2008  .
There are a total of  60  episodes were produced spanning  चार  seasons .
Drake Bell ,  जोश  Peck  ,  and Miranda Cosgrove were the only actors  to  appear  in  all 60  एपीसोड  .
The San Francisco 49ers conduct training camp at the team 's  मुख्यालय  and practice  सुविधा  in Santa Clara  ,  California  in  August 2010 .
The offense is wearing red  jerseys  with the exception of quarterback Alex Smith , who is in a black jersey ; the defense  in  white  .
In the National Football League  ,  training camp  refers  to the time before the season commences .
During this time , teams will sometimes congregate at an  बाहर  location ,  प्रायः  a  विश्वविद्यालयों  , to conduct training camp for  at  least  the  first few weeks .
This  is  similar to baseball 's spring training  .
प्रशिक्षण  camp is used in  अनेक  different ways .
New players  और  coaches use it to acclimate themselves to new teammates and  प्रणालियों  .
For younger players  ,  it serves  as  a period of evaluation ; for veterans , it is  समय  to round  वापस  into form  .
प्रशिक्षण   शिविर  is  विभाजित   into   अनेक   अलग  components .
The  पहला  is scrimmages .
These are  pseudo-games  where teams run  nearly  full games ' worth of plays .
sometimes  , two practice sessions are held  on   the  same day .
This concept is  referred   to  as two-a-days .
Other parts  of   प्रशिक्षण  camp include drills ,  बैठक  with coaches and other  खिलाड़ी  at one  's  position , weight training , and pre-season  खेल  .
The latter half of training camp leads directly into the exhibition season  .
With NFL training camps starting in late-July ,  the  biggest concern has been dehydration  .
in   2001   ,  Minnesota Vikings player  korey  Stringer died of a medical condition based from dehydration and  heatstroke  .
the  death of Stringer  prompted  the NFL to  बदलें   उनके  training policies  .
At each practice , every  टोली   जरूर  have the team  डॉक्टर  and trainers on the field ; additionally , an ambulance must be present  दौरान  practices .
With NFL training camps beginning in  लेट  July ,  कठोर  weather can affect practice and exhibition games .
In  2002  , a Cleveland Browns exhibition game ended due to lightning near  क्लीवलैंड  Browns Stadium , and severe storms  have  been known to disrupt training camps .
Fans  हैं   प्रायः   समर्थ  to  विज़िट  their favorite team 's training camp to  कैच  an early look  at   the  players ;  प्रवेश  to practices is often free  or   substantially   कम   महंगी  than a game ticket , making training camp trips a popular option for fans  जो   can   नहीं  attend many games due  to  financial or other  कारण  .
NFL  टीमों  often sell souvenirs  और  concessions at camp sites along with offering  क्रियाएँ  and events to make training camp a more fan-friendly experience .
In computing  ,  a file system ( or filesystem ) is  a  type of data store  जिससे  can be used to store , retrieve and update a  नियत   of  files .
The term could refer to the  अमूर्त  data  structures   प्रयुक्त   to  define files , or to  the  actual software or firmware components that implement  the  abstract  विचार  .
Some file systems are  प्रयुक्त  on local data storage devices ; others  provide  file access via a  संजाल  protocol (  e.g  . NFS ,  smb  , or 9P clients ) .
Some file  प्रणालियों  are `` virtual '' , in  कि  the `` files ''  supplied   हैं   computed  on  निवेदन   (  e.g . procfs ) or are  merely  a mapping into  a   अलग  file system  प्रयुक्त  as a backing  स्टोर   .
The file system  manages  access  to  both the content of  फाइलें  and the metadata about those files .
It  is  responsible for  arranging  storage space ;  विश्वसनीयता  , efficiency , and tuning with regard to the physical storage medium are important design considerations .
William Howard  taft  ( September 15 , 1857  –  March 8 , 1930 ) was  the   27th   अध्यक्ष   of  the United States ( 1909–1913 ) and later the  दसवाँ  Chief Justice of the United States (  1921–1930  ) .
He is  the  only person  to  have served  in  both of these  कार्यालयों   .
Before becoming President , Taft , a Republican , was  चयनित  to serve on  the  Superior Court of Cincinnati in 1887 .
in  1890 , Taft  थी  appointed Solicitor  सामान्य  of  the   संयुक्त  States and in 1891 a  न्यायधीश  on the  संयुक्त  States  अदालत  of Appeals  लिये   the   छठे  Circuit .
in  1900 , President William  mckinley  appointed Taft Governor-General of  the   फिलीपीन   .
In  1904   ,   अध्यक्ष  Theodore Roosevelt appointed Taft  सचिव  of War  in  an effort to  दूल्हे  Taft , then his close political ally , into his handpicked presidential successor .
Taft assumed a  prominent  role in problem solving , assuming on some  अवसरों  the role of acting Secretary of State , while declining repeated offers from Roosevelt to serve  on  the Supreme Court  .
सवारी  a wave  of  popular support for fellow Republican Roosevelt , Taft won an easy victory in his 1908 bid for the  प्रेसिडेंसी   .
In his only term  ,   taft   's  domestic agenda emphasized trust-busting ,  सिविल  service reform ,  strengthening  the Interstate  कॉमर्स  Commission  ,  improving  the  performance of the  डाक  service , and passage of the  सोलहवीं  Amendment .
Abroad , Taft sought to further the economic development  of  nations in Latin America and Asia through `` Dollar Diplomacy ``  ,  and showed decisiveness and restraint in  जवाब  to revolution  in  Mexico .
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious to the political ramifications of his  निर्णय  , often alienated his own key constituencies , and was overwhelmingly defeated in his bid for a second term in the presidential election  of  1912 .
In surveys of presidential scholars , Taft is usually ranked near the middle of lists of  सब  American Presidents .
After leaving office , Taft spent his time in academia , arbitration  ,  and the search for world peace through  उसके  self-founded League to Enforce Peace .
In 1921 , after the First  संसार  War ,  अध्यक्ष   वारेन  G. Harding appointed Taft Chief  इंसाफ  of  the   संयुक्त  States .
taft   परोसा  in  इस   क्षमता  until  shortly  before his  मौत  in  1930  .
The  टेन   आयतें  is a  1956  epic film produced and directed by Cecil B.  demille  that  dramatized  the biblical story  of  the Exodus ,  in  which the Hebrew-born Moses , an adopted Egyptian prince  ,  becomes the  deliverer  of  the  Hebrew slaves .
It starred  चार्ल्टन  Heston in  the  lead  भूमिका  , Yul Brynner as  उसके  adoptive brother , Pharaoh Rameses II , Anne  बैक्सटर  as Nefretiri , Edward  G.  Robinson as Dathan , Yvonne De Carlo as Sephora , Debra Paget as Lilia , and  जॉन  Derek as Joshua .
The  supporting  cast includes Sir Cedric  hardwicke  as  pharaoh  Seti I , Nina Foch as  bithiah  , Martha Scott as Yoshebel  ,  Judith  एंडरसन  as Memnet  ,  Vincent Price  as  Baka , and  जॉन  Carradine as Aaron  .
The film was released  by   सर्वोपरि  Pictures  in  VistaVision on October 5  ,  1956 .
the   टेन  Commandments , which DeMille narrated , was the  पिछला  film  कि  he  निर्देशित  .
He was  नियत  to direct the 1958 remake of his 1938 film  the  Buccaneer , but his final illness forced him to relinquish the directing chores to his son-in-law , actor  एंथोनी  Quinn .
DeMille had  भी  planned  to   फिल्मी  the life of  रब  Baden Powell , the founder of the  स्काउट  movement , with  दाउद  Niven ; this project was  never  realized .
The Ten Commandments is a partial remake of DeMille  's  1923 silent film .
Some  of  the cast and crew  of   the  1956 version  worked  on  the  original .
It has since been remade as a television  miniseries  broadcast  in  April  2006  .
The  टेन  Commandments is one of the most financially successful  films  ever made  ,  grossing over $  65  million  at  the U.S. box  दफ्तर  .
Adjusting for  महंगाई  , this makes it the sixth  highest-grossing   फिल्मी  domestically , with an adjusted total  of  $ 1,025,730,000 in  2012  .
The box office website `` The Numbers  ''  lists  the   घरेलू  gross  at  $ 80 million  .
In 1999 , The Ten Commandments was selected for preservation in the United States National  फिल्मी  Registry by the Library  of  Congress as being `` culturally , historically ,  or   aesthetically  significant '' .
In June 2008 , the American Film Institute revealed its  ``  Ten Top Ten `` —the best ten films in ten American film genres—after polling over 1,500 people from the creative  जातियाँ  .
the  Ten Commandments was  सूचीबद्ध  as the tenth  बेहतरीन  film  in  the epic genre .
The film received seven  अकादमी  Award  nominations  including Best Picture , and won the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects .
चार्ल्टन  Heston was nominated for a Golden Globe Award  लिये   बेहतरीन   गति   चित्र  Actor in the  नाटक  category .
Yul Brynner won the National Board of Review Award for Best Actor for his role as Rameses , along  साथ  his  अन्य  roles in The King and I and Anastasia .
louisville  ( , or ) is a major city  और  the  largest  city in the U.S. state of Kentucky and the county seat of  जेफरसन   काउंटी  .
Since 2003  ,  the city  's  borders have been with those of the county because of  a  city-county merger  .
the  city  's  total consolidated population at  the  2010  जनसांख्यिकी  was 741,096 ( Louisville  's  balance total  ,   602,011   ,  excludes semi-autonomous  कस्बों  and is the population listed in most  स्त्रोत  and national rankings ) .
As of 2010 , the  louisville  metropolitan area ( MSA ) had a population of 1,307,647 ranking 42nd nationally .
the   मैट्रो  area includes Louisville-Jefferson County and 12 surrounding  काउंटी   ,  eight in  केंटकी  and four  in  Southern Indiana  (  see Geography  नीचे   )  .
The  louisville  Combined  सांख्यिकीय   क्षेत्रफल  , having a  जनसांख्यिकी  of 1,451,564 , includes the  एमएसए  , Hardin County  और  Larue  काउंटी  in Kentucky , and Scott County  ,  Indiana .
An  महत्वपूर्ण   आतंरिक  shipping port in the 19th century  ,  Louisville today is best  ज्ञात  as the location of the Kentucky Derby , the first of  तीन  annual  thoroughbred  horse races making up the  ट्रिपल  Crown .
A typical experimental setup for an  aldol   प्रतिक्रिया  .
Both flasks are  submerged   in  a dry ice/acetone  कूलिंग   नहाना  ( −78 °C )  the   तापमान  of which  is  being monitored by a thermocouple ( the wire  on   the  left )  .
A cooling bath  ,  in  प्रयोगशाला   रसायन  ( often  लकिन  not  सदा  organic chemistry ) practice , is a  द्रव  mixture which is used to maintain  कम   temperatures   ,  typically between 13 °C and −196 °C .
These low temperatures are used  to   collect  liquids after distillation , to remove  सॉल्वैंट्स  using a rotary evaporator , or to perform a chemical reaction  नीचे  room temperature  (  see : kinetic control ) .
Cooling baths are generally one of two types : (  a  )  a  cold fluid  (  particularly liquid nitrogen ,  जल  , or even air )  —  but most commonly the term refers to ( b ) a mixture  of  3 components : ( 1 ) a cooling agent  (   ऐसे   as  dry ice or water ice ) ; ( b ) a liquid 'carrier ' ( such as liquid water , ethylene glycol , acetone  ,  etc .  )  , which transfers heat  between  the bath and the vessel ; ; and ( c ) an additive  to  depress  the   melting-point  of the solid/liquid system .
(  A  परिचित   उदाहरण  of this  is  the use of  an  ice/rock-salt  मिश्रण   to  freeze ice cream .
The phase-change of  बर्फ   into  liquid water requires energy  ,  'pulling ' heat  इससे  the  प्रणाली  .
Adding salt lowers the temp at which this  happens   ,   अर्थ   अधिक  energy  रै   to  be absorbed from  the   पर्यावरण  in order to melt the ice .
This effectively makes the ice 'colder ' — it must 'pull ' more heat from its environment to become liquid . )
Eating disorders are conditions defined by abnormal eating habits that may involve either insufficient or excessive food  सेवन  to the detriment  of   an   व्यक्तिगत  's physical and mental health  .
Bulimia  नर्वोज़ा  and anorexia nervosa are the most common specific  फ़ॉर्म  in the United Kingdom  .
Other types of eating disorders include binge eating disorder  और  eating disorder not otherwise specified .
Bulimia nervosa  is  a disorder characterized by binge eating and purging .
Purging can include self-induce vomiting ,  over-exercising   ,  and the usage of diuretics ,  enemas   ,  and laxatives .
Anorexia nervosa is characterized by extreme  खाना  restriction  to   the  point of self-starvation and excessive weight  घाटा  .
Though  primarily  thought  of  as affecting  महिलाओं  ( an estimated 5–10 million being affected  in  the  u.K.  ) , eating disorders affect males as well .
An estimated 10 –  15  % of people with eating disorders are males ( Gorgan , 1999 )  .
( an estimated 1 million U.K. males being affected  )   .
हालांकि  eating disorders are increasing all over the world among both men and women , there  is  evidence to suggest that  it  is women in the Western world who  हैं  at  the  highest risk of developing them  और   the  degree of westernization  increases  the risk .
Nearly  हाफ  of all Americans personally know someone with an eating disorder  .
The skill  to   comprehend  the  सेंट्रल  processes of appetite  रै  increased tremendously since leptin was discovered , and  the  skill to observe the functions of the brain as well .
Interactions between  प्रेरक  , homeostatic  और  self-regulatory control processes are involved in eating behaviour , which is a key component in eating disorders .
The precise cause of eating  विकार  is  नहीं  entirely understood  ,  but there is evidence  कि   it  may be linked  to   अन्य  medical conditions and situations .
सांस्कृतिक   idealization  of thinness and youthfulness have contributed to eating disorders affecting  विविध   populations   .
One study  दिखाया  that girls with ADHD have a greater chance  of   getting  an eating disorder than those not affected  by  ADHD .
another  study suggested that women with  ptsd  , especially due to sexually  सम्बन्धित  trauma ,  हैं  more likely to develop  एनोरेक्सिया  nervosa .
One study showed that foster girls are more likely  to  develop bulimia nervosa .
Some think that peer pressure and idealized body-types seen  in  the media are  भी  a significant factor .
Some research show that  लिये   निश्चित  people there  हैं  genetic reasons  क्यों  they may be prone to  विकासशील  an eating  विकार  .
Recent studies have found evidence a correlation between patients with bulimia nervosa and  पदार्थ   उपयोग  disorders .
In addition  ,  anxiety  विकार  and personality disorders are  आम  occurrences with clients of eating disorders  .
While proper treatment can be highly effective for  अनेक  suffering  इससे  specific  प्रकार   of  eating  विकार   ,  the consequences of eating  विकार  can be severe , including death  (  whether from  सीधा  medical effects of disturbed eating habits or from comorbid conditions such as suicidal  सोच  ) .
Slavery in the United States existed from  the  early years of the colonial period ;  it  was firmly established by the time the United States sought independence from Great Britain  in  1776 .
However  ,  by 1804 ,  सब  states north  of  the  मेसन  and  डिक्सन  Line  था  either abolished slavery outright  or  passed laws  लिये  the gradual  abolition  of slavery .
in  1787 Congress prohibited slavery in the Northwest Territory .
But slavery gained new life in the  दक्षिण  with  the  cotton industry after 1800 , and expanded into the  दक्षिणपश्चिम   .
The nation was polarized into  स्लेव  and free states along the Mason-Dixon Line , which separated Pennsylvania and Maryland .
The  संयुक्त  States and Great Britain both prohibited  the  international  स्लेव  trade in 1808 , but the domestic trade , with sales to the Deep South ,  विस्तारित   dramatically   ,   और  many captives were shipped by  the  coastwise slave trade .
Before the  1840s  , the South  थी   vigorously  defending slavery and its expansion  into  the territories .
in  the North some abolitionists denounced it as sinful , and numerous anti-slavery  शक्तियां  rejected  it  as detrimental  to  the rights  of  free men .
बाद  failed compromises  और  Abraham Lincoln 's  चुनाव  ,  in  1861 eleven slave states broke away to form the Confederate  राज्य  of  अमेरिका  , leading to  the   अमरीकी  Civil  युद्ध   .
The federal government in 1862  बना  abolition of slavery a  युद्ध  goal .
In  जनवरी  1863 President Lincoln  freed  slaves in the Confederacy through the Emancipation Proclamation .
After the  युद्ध  , the  तेरहवीं  Amendment  ,   प्रभावी  December 1865 ,  abolished  slavery throughout the  संपूर्ण   संयुक्त  States , including the Border states  और  the Indian territories .
From the  16th  to the 19th  सदियां  ,  an  estimated  12  million Africans were shipped as slaves to  the  Americas  .
See Slavery  in   the  Americas  .
The great majority  गई  to the sugar  बागानों  of the West Indies  or   ब्राज़ील   ,  where mortality  थी   ऊँची   .
About 645,000 were brought to what is  अभी  the United  राज्य  .
By the 1860 United States Census , the slave population in  the  American South had grown  to  four  लाख  .
of  all  1,515,605  families in the  15   स्लेव  states , nearly 400,000  आयोजित   स्लेव  ( roughly one in  चार  ) , amounting  to  8 % of  सब   अमरीकी   परिवारों  .
While  कुछ  slaves worked as house servants and urban  शिल्पकार  , the  ग्रेट  majority worked on plantations  or  large farms , cultivating lucrative cash crops , such as rice ,  तम्बाकू  , sugar and , after  1800   ,  chiefly cotton .
By 1860 most  स्लेव   यहूद   आयोजित  in the Deep South  ,  where they served in work-gangs ;  two-thirds  worked  in  cotton .
In  छोटी  operations , they worked with  उनके  owners .
In large plantations they were  निर्देशित  by  श्वेत  paid overseers .
Under the system that became chattel  गुलामी  ( ownership of a human being , and of his/her descendants  )  ,  a  racial element  थी  fundamental : slaves were blacks of African  descent  and owned , almost universally , by whites of European descent  .
In the 17th century  ,  Virginia  ,  followed by  अन्य  southern  colonies  , enacted law that  children   of  slave mothers  यहूद  born into slavery .
स्लेव  could gain freedom only by  कार्यशील  away ( which was difficult and illegal to do ) , or  by  manumission  by  owners , which was regulated by  राज्य   ,  and became increasingly  मुश्किल  or prohibited .
in  the earliest era of chattel  गुलामी  , the colonies also organized  कार्य   by  a system of bonded labor known as indentured servitude  .
This typically lasted for several years for  दोनो  poor Europeans and Africans alike ,  to  pay  बंद  the costs of transport to the colonies  .
वे  contracted for  ऐसे   इंतजाम  because of poor economies  in   उनके   घर  countries .
Between 1680 and  1700  , as fewer Europeans migrated to the colonies , planters began to import  अधिक  Africans as slaves  .
Recognizing the importance of slavery , the House of Burgesses in Virginia enacted a new  स्लेव  code in 1705 ; it combined a variety of  विधान  and added new provisions enforcing white supremacy in the law .
Schematic cross  खण्ड  of  भाग  of leaf , xylem shown as red circles at  फिगर  8  .
जाइलम  is  एक  of the  दो  types of transport tissue in vascular  पौधे  ( phloem is  the  other ) .
The  शब्द  xylem is derived  इससे  the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ) ,  अर्थ  `` wood '' ;  the   best-known  xylem tissue  is   लकडी  , though it is found throughout the  संयंत्र  .
Its basic function is  to  transport water , but it also transports some nutrients through the plant .
This clock representation shows some of the major units  of  geological time and definitive  कार्यक्रम  of Earth history .
The Hadean eon represents  the  time before  चट्टान  record of life on Earth ; its  अपर  boundary is now regarded as 4.0 Ga  (   अरब   सालो  ago ) .
Other subdivisions reflect the  एवोल्यूशन   of  life ;  the  Archean and  proterozoic  are both eons  ,   the  Palaeozoic , Mesozoic  और   cenozoic  are eras of the Phanerozoic  इओन  .
the  two million year Quaternary  काल  , the time of recognizable humans ,  is   too   छोटी  to be visible  at  this scale .
the  geologic time scale is a system of chronological measurement  कि  relates stratigraphy to time , and is used by geologists ,  paleontologists  , and other earth scientists to  describe   the   समय   और  relationships between events that have occurred throughout Earth  's  history  .
The table of geologic time spans presented here agrees with  the  dates  और  nomenclature  नियत  forth by the International Commission on Stratigraphy standard color codes  of  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Commission on Stratigraphy .
प्रमाण  from radiometric dating  indicates  that the Earth is about 4.54 billion years old .
The geology or deep time of  धरती   's  past has  महरूम  organized  into  various units according to events which took place in  प्रत्येक  period .
Different spans  of   समय   on  the GTS are  प्रायः  delimited by changes in the composition of strata which correspond to  उन्हें  ,  indicating  major geological  or  paleontological  कार्यक्रम   ,   ऐसे  as mass  extinctions   .
For example  ,  the  boundary  between the Cretaceous period and the Paleogene period  is  defined by the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event , which marked the demise of  the  dinosaurs  और   अनेक  other groups of life  .
Older time spans which predate the reliable fossil record ( before the Proterozoic Eon ) are defined by absolute  आयु  .
The TI-82 is a graphing calculator made by  टेक्सास   यंत्र  .
The TI-82 was designed in 1993  as   a  stripped down  ,  more user friendly version of the TI-85 , and as a replacement for the TI-81 .
It was  the  direct predecessor of the  ti-83  .
It shares with the TI-85 a  6  MHz  zilog   z80   माइक्रोप्रोसेसर   .
Like the TI-81 , the TI-82 features a 96x64 pixel  प्रदर्शक  , and the core feature  नियत   of  the TI-81 with many new features  .
The cast of characters of The King of Fighters XI .
The King of Fighters fighting game series  ,  produced by SNK Playmore , includes a wide cast of characters , some of  जिससे  are taken from other SNK games .
The story takes place in a  fictional   ब्रह्मांड  in which an  सालाना  series of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 fighting tournaments are held .
The first game  in  the series  introduces  the initial  प्रमुख   अक्षर  of the  श्रेणी  , Kyo Kusanagi , a young Japanese fighter  जो  is  the  heir  to  a powerful group  of  martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities .
Kyo fights against the Kusanagi clan  's   दुश्मनों  , his rival Iori Yagami , and  the  god  orochi  and its human  अनुसरणकर्ता   ,  among  अन्य  .
the  first four games in the series revolve about  ये  fights  ,  while The  किंग   of  Fighters  '99  introduces a new story arc  ,  revolving around  k  ' , a young  man  who seeks to  नष्ट  the mysterious NESTS organization because they  kidnapped  him at an early age  और  stripped him of his past memories  ,   so  that they could force  उसे  to be a fighter under their  कंट्रोल   .
in  The King of Fighters 2003 , a new character named Ash  crimson  enters the tournament ,  to  steal the powers  of  the clans who  sealed  the  orochi  in  the  past  लिये   an   अनजान  reason .
A new group of antagonists  ,   ज्ञात  as  those  From the Past ,  भी  appears in the series ; they want to obtain Orochi 's power for the purpose of giving it to their unknown master .
the   प्लाट  and the  वर्ण  came from the  yamata  no Orochi legend .
वहीँ  are also  अनेक   वर्ण  in  the  games that are parodies  or   homages   to  several popular  दुश्मनी  , manga , and  films  .
Merchandise based on the characters has also been released , including action figures and keychains  .
The characters have garnered  तारीफ़  from several video game  publications  for the quality of their designs and  movesets  .
टिप्पणी  focused on the lack of improvements in  कुछ  of the characters , but  added  that the  रोस्टर   is  greatly diverse .
व्हेल  Wars is a weekly American documentary-style  वास्तविकता   टेलीविज़न   श्रेणी  that premiered on November  7  , 2008 on  the   एनिमल  Planet cable channel  .
the  program follows  पॉल   वाटसन  , founder of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society , as he and  the  crew aboard their various vessels  harass  Japanese  whalers  off  the   coast  of Antarctica .
on  January  5  , 2013 , Animal Planet  नवीनीकृत  the series for a sixth season .
The Harpy  त्रिभुज  ( Harpia harpyja ) is a Neotropical  प्रजाति   of  eagle  .
It is sometimes known as the American Harpy Eagle to  फर्क  it from  the  Papuan  त्रिभुज   जिससे   is   sometimes  known as the New Guinea Harpy Eagle or Papuan  harpy   त्रिभुज  .
It is  the  largest and most powerful raptor found in the  americas   ,  and among the largest extant species of eagles in the world .
It usually  inhabits  tropical lowland rainforests in the upper  (  emergent ) canopy layer  .
विनाश  of  इसके  natural habitat has seen it  vanish  from many  भाग  of its former  दायरा   ,  and it is nearly extirpated in Central  अमेरिका   .
Biological classification  ,  or scientific classification in biology ,  is  a method of scientific taxonomy  प्रयुक्त  to group and categorize organisms into groups such as  genus   or  species .
These  समूह  are known as taxa  (   एकवचन   :  taxon ) .
Modern biological classification has its root in the work  of   carolus  Linnaeus , who  grouped   प्रजाति  according to shared physical characteristics .
ये   groupings  have since been revised to  improve  consistency with the Darwinian principle  of  common descent  .
साथ  the introduction  of   the  cladistic method in the  लेट  20th  सदी   ,   phylogenetic  taxonomy in which  जीवों   हैं  grouped based purely on inferred evolutionary relatedness , ignoring morphological similarity  ,  has become common  in   कुछ   क्षेत्रों  of biology .
आणविक  phylogenetics  ,  which  उपयोग   डीएनए  sequences as data , has also driven many  हाल  revisions and is likely to  continue  doing so .
Biological classification belongs to the science of biological systematics  .
Lennon 's signature
जॉन  Winston Ono Lennon , ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9  अक्तूबर  1940 – 8  दिसम्बर  1980 ) was an English musician , singer and songwriter who rose to worldwide fame  as  a founder member of the Beatles , one  of   the   सबसे  commercially successful and critically acclaimed  अधिनियमों  in the history  of  popular music .
साथ  Paul McCartney , he  formed   एक  of the  सबसे  celebrated songwriting partnerships  of  the 20th century  .
Born and raised in Liverpool , as a teenager Lennon  became  involved  in  the skiffle craze  ;  his first band ,  the  Quarrymen , evolved into the Beatles  in  1960 .
As  the  group disintegrated towards  the  end of  the  decade , Lennon embarked on a solo career that produced the critically acclaimed  एल्बम  John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band and Imagine , and iconic songs such as `` Give  सलाम  a Chance `` and `` Imagine `` .
बाद  his marriage to  योको  Ono in  1969  , he changed his name to John Ono  लेनन  .
Lennon disengaged  खुद  from the music business in 1975 to devote time  to  raising his infant son Sean , but  re-emerged  with Ono in  1980   साथ  the new album Double Fantasy .
He  थी   murdered  three  सप्ताह  after its  रिलीज  .
Lennon  नाज़िल   a  rebellious nature and  acerbic  wit in his music , writing  ,  drawings , on film and  in  interviews .
Controversial  through  his political  और  peace activism , he moved to New York City in 1971 , where his criticism of the Vietnam War  resulted  in a  lengthy  attempt by Richard  निक्सन  's administration to deport  उसे  , while some of his  गीतों  were  अपनाया   as  anthems  by  the anti-war movement  .
As of 2012 , Lennon  's  solo album  बिक्री  in the United States exceed 14 million units , and  as  writer , co-writer or performer , he is responsible for 25 number-one singles on the  us   hot   100  chart .
In 2002 , a BBC poll on  the   100   महानतम  Britons voted him eighth  ,  and  in  2008 , Rolling  स्टोन  ranked  उसे  the fifth-greatest singer of all time .
He  थी   मरणोपरांत  inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1987 and into the Rock and Roll Hall of  कीर्ति  in  1994  .
Statue  of  Rip van Winkle in Irvington ,  नई  York , not far from `` Sunnyside  ``   ,  the home of Washington Irving
``  rip   वैन   winkle   ''   is   a  short story by American  लेखक  Washington Irving published  in  1819 , as well as the name of the  स्टोरी   's  fictional  समर्थक  .
Written  जबकि  Irving  थी  living in Birmingham  ,  England , it was  भाग  of a collection entitled The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon .
हालांकि  the story is  नियत   in  New York  's  Catskill Mountains , Irving later admitted  ,   ``   जब   i  wrote the story  ,  I had never been  on  the  catskills  . ''
Throughout the fifty-five year history of  the  Grammy  पुरस्कार  , many significant records have been set .
This page only includes the  प्रतिस्पर्धी  awards won  by  various artists .
This does  नहीं  include the various special awards that are presented by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences such as Lifetime Achievement Awards ,  trustees  Awards , Technical Awards or Legend Awards .
The  पेज  however does include other non-performance related  grammys  ( known as the Craft  &  Production Fields )  कि  may have been presented to the artist ( s  )  .
Pee-wee Herman is  a   कॉमिक  fictional  अक्षर  created and portrayed by American comedian  पॉल  Reubens .
he  is best known for  उसके   दो  television  श्रेणी  and film  श्रेणी  during the 1980s  .
The childlike Pee-wee  herman   अक्षर  developed as  a  stage act that quickly led  to  an  एचबीओ  special in  1981  .
As the stage performance gained further popularity , Reubens took the character to motion picture with Pee-wee 's Big Adventure in 1985 ,  toning  down the  वयस्क   innuendo   लिये   the  appeal  of  children .
इस  paved  the  way for Pee-wee 's Playhouse  ,  an Emmy  पुरस्कार  winning  children   's  series  कि  ran on CBS  इससे  1986-1991  .
Another film , Big Top Pee-wee , was  released  in 1988 .
due  to negative  मीडिया  attention following a  कांड  in 1991 , Reubens decided to shelve his alter ego during the 1990s , and then gradually resurrected it during the following decade .
It  थी  at that time that Reubens addressed plans to write  a  new Pee-wee  फिल्मी  , Pee-wee 's  playhouse  :  the  Movie .
In June 2007 , Reubens  appeared   as  Pee-wee Herman for the first  समय  since 1991  at  Spike TV 's Guys  '   चुनाव   पुरस्कार  .
That '70s Show is an American television period sitcom that centers  on   the  lives  of  a group  of   teenage  friends living in the fictional suburban town of Point Place  ,  Wisconsin , from May  17  , 1976 , to December 31 ,  1979  .
It debuted on the Fox television network , first airing on  अगस्त  23  ,  1998  ,  running for eight  लगातार  seasons ,  और  concluding with the 200th episode on May 18 , 2006 .
The main teenage cast members were Topher Grace , Mila Kunis , Ashton Kutcher , Danny Masterson , Laura Prepon  ,  and Wilmer Valderrama  .
The  प्रमुख  adult cast  सदस्यों  were Debra Jo Rupp , Kurtwood  स्मिथ  ,  डॉन  Stark and , during the first  तीन  seasons , Tanya Roberts .
Kansas  (  )  is  a U.S. state located  in  the Midwestern United States  .
It is named after the Kansas River which flows through it , which in turn was named  बाद  the  कंस   देशी   अमरीकी  tribe ,  जिससे  inhabited the area .
The tribe  's  name (  natively   kką  : ze  )  is often said to  औसत  `` people of the wind  ''  or `` people of  the   दक्षिण  wind , '' although this was  संभवतः  not the  पद  's original  अर्थ   .
Residents of Kansas are called  ``   kansans  . ''
For thousands  of  years  कया  is now Kansas was home to numerous and  विविध  Native American tribes .
Tribes in the Eastern part  of  the state generally lived in villages along the river valleys .
Tribes  in   the  Western  भाग  of the  राज्य  were semi- nomadic and hunted large herds of bison .
Kansas  थी  first settled by European  अमेरिकी   in  the  1830s  , but the pace of settlement accelerated in  the  1850s , in  the  midst of political wars over the slavery issue .
When officially opened to settlement by the U.S.  सरकारी  in 1854 , abolitionist Free-Staters from  नई  England  और  pro-slavery settlers from  neighboring  Missouri  rushed   to  the territory to determine if Kansas would become a free state or a  स्लेव   राज्य  .
Thus , the  क्षेत्रफल  was a hotbed of violence and chaos in  इसके  early  दिनों  as these forces collided , and was known as Bleeding Kansas .
The  abolitionists  eventually prevailed  और   on  January 29  ,  1861  ,  Kansas entered  the  Union as  a  free state  .
After the  सिविल  War ,  the  population of Kansas grew rapidly , when waves of immigrants turned  the  prairie  into  farmland .
Today , Kansas  is  one of the most productive  agricultural  states , producing high yields of wheat , sorghum and sunflowers  .
Kansas  is  the 15th most extensive and the 33rd most populous of  the   50   संयुक्त  States .
Psychology  is   an  academic and applied discipline  कि   involves   the  scientific study  of  mental  कृत्यों   और  behaviors .
Psychology has the  तात्कालिक  goal  of  understanding individuals and groups by both establishing general principles and researching specific  मामले  , and  by  many accounts  it  ultimately aims  to  benefit society .
In this  फ़ील्ड  , a professional or researcher  is   पुकारा   a  psychologist  और  can be classified as a social  ,  behavioral ,  or  cognitive scientist .
Psychologists attempt to understand the  भूमिका  of  दिमागी  functions in individual and social behavior , while also  exploring  the physiological and neurobiological processes that underlie certain  संज्ञानात्मक   कृत्यों  and behaviors .
Psychologists explore concepts such  as  perception , cognition , attention , emotion ,  phenomenology  ,  प्रेरणा  , brain functioning , personality , behavior  ,  and  interpersonal  relationships .
psychologists  of diverse  धारियाँ   भी  consider the  बेहोश  mind .
Psychologists  employ  empirical methods  to   infer  causal and correlational relationships  between   psychosocial  variables .
In addition , or  in  opposition , to employing empirical and deductive methods , some—especially clinical and counseling psychologists—at  टाइम्स  rely upon symbolic  निर्वचन  and other inductive techniques  .
Psychology has been described as  a   ``   हब   विज्ञान  ''  ,   साथ  psychological  निष्कर्षों  linking to  शोध  and perspectives  इससे  the  सोशल  sciences , natural sciences , medicine , and the  मानवता  ,  ऐसे   as  philosophy  .
While  मनोवैज्ञानिक  knowledge is  प्रायः  applied  to  the assessment and treatment of  दिमागी  health problems , it is also directed towards  समझना  and solving problems in  अनेक  different spheres of human activity  .
The majority  of  psychologists are involved in some  दयालु  of therapeutic role , practicing in  नैदानिक  , counseling , or school settings .
Many do  वैज्ञानिक  research on  a  wide range of topics related to mental processes and behavior ,  और  typically work in university psychology departments or teach in  अन्य  academic settings ( e.g. ,  चिकित्सा  schools , hospitals ) .
Some  हैं  employed in industrial and  organizational  settings  ,  or in other areas such  as   इंसान  development  और  aging , sports , health ,  और   the  media , as  खूब  as in forensic investigation and other aspects  of  law .
Thomas Jefferson  (  April 13 ,  1743  ( April 2 , 1743 O.S. )  –  July 4 ,  1826  ) was an American  founding  Father , the principal  लेखक  of  the  Declaration of  स्वतंत्रता   (  1776 ) and the third President  of  the United States ( 1801–1809 ) .
At the beginning of the American Revolution , he served in the  महाद्वीपीय  Congress , representing  वर्जिनिया  and then  परोसा  as a wartime Governor of Virginia ( 1779–1781 ) .
Just after the war  ended  , from mid-1784  जेफरसन  served as a diplomat , stationed  in  Paris .
In May 1785  ,  he  became  the United States Minister to France .
Jefferson  थी  the  पहला  United  राज्य  Secretary of State ( 1790–1793 ) serving  अंतर्गत  President George Washington .
With his close friend  जेम्स  Madison he organized the Democratic-Republican  पार्टी  ,  और  subsequently resigned from Washington 's cabinet .
Elected Vice President  in  1796 , when he came in second to John Adams of the Federalists , Jefferson  opposed  Adams and with  मैडिसन  secretly wrote the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions , which attempted to nullify the Alien and  राजद्रोह  Acts  .
Elected president in what Jefferson called the  क्रान्ति  of 1800  ,  he oversaw the purchase of the vast  louisiana   territory  from France ( 1803 ) , and sent the Lewis and Clark Expedition ( 1804–1806 )  to  explore the new west .
उसके  second term  थी  beset with troubles at  घर  , such as the  विफल  treason trial of his former Vice President  आरोन  Burr .
साथ  escalating trouble  साथ  Britain who was challenging American neutrality and threatening shipping at sea , he tried economic warfare with his embargo laws which only  क्षतिग्रस्त  American trade  .
In 1803 , President Jefferson  initiated  a  प्रक्रम  of Indian tribal removal and relocation to the Louisiana  territory  west of  the  Mississippi River , in order  to  open lands for  eventual  American settlers  .
a  leader in the Enlightenment , Jefferson was a polymath who spoke five languages fluently  और   थी   deeply   दिलचस्पी  in  विज्ञान  , invention , architecture , religion and philosophy , interests that led him to the founding of the University of Virginia after his  प्रेसिडेंसी  .
He designed his  अपना  large mansion on a  5,000  acre  वृक्षारोपण   निकट   charlottesville  ,  वर्जिनिया  , which he named  monticello  .
जबकि  not a notable orator  ,  Jefferson was a skilled  लेखक  and corresponded with many influential people  in  America and Europe throughout his  वयस्क  life .
Though Jefferson owned many  स्लेव  , he opposed the institution all  उसके  life and consequently  treated  and took care of them very well and expected them to work  no  more than  फ़्री  farmers .
Since 1802 historians and others have been divided  over  the controversy of whether  जेफरसन  was the  पिता   of  one  or  more children belonging to Sally  hemings  , a slave at Monticello . ''
Historians are  भी  in disagreement with how much Jefferson was committed to the anti-slavery cause .
In 1807  ,  President Jefferson signed into law a  विधेयक  that banned the importation of slaves into the United States .
After Martha  जेफरसन  , his  बीवी  of eleven years , died  in  1782 , Jefferson remained a widower for the rest  of  his life  ;  their marriage produced six children  ,  of whom  दो  survived to adulthood .
हालांकि  Jefferson has been criticized by many  आधुनिक  day scholars over the issue of  गुलामी  , he  remains  rated as one of the greatest U.S. presidents  .
`` Sun City ''  is  a 1985 protest  सोंग  written by Steven Van Zandt , produced by  वैन  Zandt and Arthur Baker and recorded by  कलाकारों   संयुक्त   विरूद्ध  Apartheid  to  convey opposition to the  दक्षिण  African policy of apartheid  .
The primary means of  कि  opposition is to  घोषित  that all  the  artists involved would refuse any and all offers to perform  at  Sun City , a resort which was located  in  Bantustan of Bophuthatswana , one of a number of  internationally  unrecognized supposed `` independent '' states created by the  दक्षिण  African government to forcibly relocate its black population .
This page is  a  list  of   वर्ण  in the Police Academy film  और  television series .
Bill  रसेल  won  11  championships  साथ  the Boston Celtics .
This is a list of NBA players  साथ   सबसे  championships won as  a  player  .
the  National Basketball  संघ   (  NBA  )  is a major professional  बास्केट   लीग   in  North America .
It was founded in 1946 as  the  Basketball Association  of  America ( BAA ) .
The  लीग   अपनाया   इसके  current name  at  the start of the when it merged with the  नेशनल  Basketball League ( NBL ) .
The NBA Finals is the championship  श्रेणी  for  the  NBA and  the   निष्कर्ष   of  the sport 's postseason .
the  winning team  of  the series receives the Larry O'Brien  चैंपियनशिप  Trophy .
Players  इससे  the winning  टोली  usually receive  चैंपियनशिप  rings from the team honoring their contribution .
however   ,  in some rare  अवसर  , the  टीमों  opted to gave other commemorative items ,  ऐसे  as  कलाई  watches ,  बजाय  of rings .
The number of  championships   जीती   by  NBA superstars  is  often used as a measurement of their greatness .
Boston Celtics center Bill Russell  holds  the record for the most NBA championships won with 11 titles during his 13-year playing  करियर  .
he  won his first championship with  the  Boston Celtics in his rookie  साल   .
Afterwards , he  गई   on   to  win 10 championships  in  the next 12 years  ,   सहित  eight consecutive championships from 1959 to  1966  .
He won the last two championships in 1968 and 1969 as player-coach .
Russell 's  teammate   ,  Sam  जोन्स   ,  won 10  championships   इससे  1959 to 1969  ,  the  दूसरी   सबसे   in  NBA history .
Four Celtics players , Tom Heinsohn , K. C. Jones  ,  Satch Sanders and John Havlicek , won eight championships  प्रत्येक   .
Two other Celtics ,  जिम  Loscutoff  और  Frank Ramsey , won seven championships each .
चार  players , Bob  cousy  , Kareem Abdul-Jabbar  ,   माइकल  Jordan  और  Scottie Pippen , won six championships each .
जॉर्डन  and Pippen are members of the Chicago Bulls team who won three  लगातार   championships   twice  in the  1990s  .
Robert Horry and John Salley are the only  खिलाड़ी   to  have won the championships with three different teams .
Horry won seven championships with  the   ह्यूस्टन  Rockets , the Los Angeles Lakers  और  the San Antonio  स्पर्स  , while Salley  जीती  four championships with  the  Detroit  पिस्टन्स  ,  the  Bulls and  the   लेकर्स  .
Frank Saul  और   स्टीव  Kerr  हैं  the only players to win  दो  championships with two different teams in consecutive seasons .
Saul won  लगातार  championships with the  रोचेस्टर  Royals and the  मिनियापोलिस  Lakers  in   the  1950s , while Kerr won consecutive championships with  the  Bulls  और   the  Spurs in the  1990s,
Accuracy indicates  निकटता  of measurement results to the true value , precision  to  the  repeatability   ,  or reproducibility of the  मापन
In the  फ़ील्ड  of science ,  अभियान्त्रिकी  , industry , and statistics , the accuracy of a measurement  प्रणाली  is the degree  of  closeness  of  measurements  of  a quantity to that quantity 's actual  (  true ) value  .
The precision of  a  measurement system ,  भी   पुकारा  reproducibility or repeatability  ,  is the  उपाधि  to which repeated  माप  under unchanged  शर्तें  show the  वही  results .
Although the two words  reproducibility  and  repeatability  can be synonymous in colloquial use , they are deliberately contrasted in  the   कॉन्टेक्स्ट  of the  वैज्ञानिक  method .
A measurement system  can  be accurate but not  precise  , precise but not accurate , neither  ,  or both .
For example  ,   if  an experiment contains  a   व्यवस्थित  error , then increasing the sample size generally increases precision but  करता  not improve  सटीकता  .
The result would be a  सतत   yet  inaccurate string of results from the flawed  प्रयोग  .
Eliminating the systematic error improves accuracy  लकिन   करता  not change  परिशुद्धता  .
a  measurement  प्रणाली  is designated valid if it is  दोनो  accurate and precise .
Related terms include bias (  non-  random or directed  प्रभाव  caused by a factor or factors unrelated  to  the independent variable  )  and  गलती   (   यादृच्छिक  variability )  .
The terminology  is  also  लागू   to  indirect measurements—that  is  , values obtained by a computational  कार्यविधि  from observed data .
In  जोड  to accuracy  और  precision , measurements may also have a measurement resolution ,  जिससे  is the smallest change in the underlying physical  मात्रा  that produces a  जवाब  in the measurement .
In the case of  पूरा  reproducibility , such  as  when rounding a number  to  a representable floating  पाइंट  number  ,  the word precision has  a  meaning not related to reproducibility .
लिये  example , in the IEEE 754-2008 standard  it   अर्थात्  the number of bits in  the  significand , so  it  is used as a measure for the  सापेक्ष  accuracy with  जिससे  an arbitrary number can be represented .
Fuck in its literal  अर्थ   refers  to the  अधिनियम  of  यौन  intercourse .
It is an English  शब्द  that  is  often used as a profanity ,  either   to   denote   तिरस्कार  or as an intensifier .
The  उत्पत्ति  of the word is obscure .
It is usually considered  to  be first attested to around  1475   ,  but it may be considerably older .
In  आधुनिक  usage  ,  fuck and its  डेरिवेटिव   (   ऐसे  as  कमीने  and fucking  )  can be used in the position  of  a noun , a verb , an adjective or an adverb .
There  हैं  many common phrases which make  उपयोग   of  the  शब्द  , as well as a  क्रमांक   of  compounds incorporating it ,  ऐसे  as motherfucker  .
Animated  ,  color-coded map showing the various continents and regions .
Depending on the convention and model , some continents may be consolidated  or  subdivided :  लिये   उदाहरण  , Eurasia is most often subdivided into  यूरोपीय   और  Asia ( red shades  )  , while North and South America are sometimes recognized as one  अमरीकी  continent ( green shades  )  .
A continent is one  of  several  बहुत  large  landmasses  on Earth .
They  हैं  generally identified by convention rather  than  any  सख्त  criteria , with up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents—they are ( from largest in size to smallest ) : Asia  ,  Africa , North America , South  अमेरिका  , Antarctica  ,  Europe , and Australia  .
In geology , continents  हैं  described by  अर्थात्  of  tectonic   प्लेटों  .
थाली  tectonics is the process and study of the movement , collision  और  division of continents  ,  earlier  ज्ञात  as continental drift .
Biker Boyz is a  2003  film  परिचय   a   समूह  of underground motorcycle  खीचें  racers .
It stars Laurence Fishburne ,  djimon  Hounsou , Derek  ल्यूक  , Meagan Good , and  larenz  Tate and is written  और  directed by Reggie Rock Bythewood  .
it  also features Lisa Bonet  ,  Orlando Jones ,  बच्चा  Rock and Vanessa Bell Calloway .
For the Steel Panther song , see Feel the Steel .
Community  प्रॉपर्टी  is a marital property  शासन   कि   originated  in civil law jurisdictions and is  अभी  also found in some common  विधि  jurisdictions .
The states of the United States that recognize  जातियाँ  property are primarily in the  वेस्ट   ;   it  was inherited  इससे  Mexico 's ganancial community system , which itself was inherited from Spanish law  (  a Roman -derived civil law system ) and ultimately from  the  Visigoths .
While under Spanish rule Louisiana adopted the ganancial community  प्रणाली  of acquests  और  gains ,  जिससे  replaced the traditional  फ्रेंच  community  of  movables and  acquests   in   इसके   सिविल  law  प्रणाली  .
Map of the United States with community property states highlighted in red .
in  addition to the highlighted states ,  अलास्का   is  a separate property  राज्य  that  permits  couples to opt into  a   जातियाँ  property arrangement .
In a  जातियाँ   प्रॉपर्टी  jurisdiction , most property acquired  दौरान  the marriage  (  except  लिये   उपहार  or inheritances )  —the  community ,  or  communio bonorum—is owned jointly by both spouses and is divided  upon  divorce  ,   annulment  or  मौत  .
Joint ownership is automatically presumed by  विधि  in the absence of  विशिष्ट  evidence that would point to a  contrary   निष्कर्ष  for a  particular  piece of property .
Division of community property may take  प्लेस  by item , by splitting all  वस्तुएं  or by value .
in  some jurisdictions  ,   ऐसे  as  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , a 50/50 division of  जातियाँ  property is strictly mandated by  statute   ,  meaning  कि  the focus then shifts to whether particular items are to be classified as  जातियाँ  or  पृथक  property .
In other  jurisdictions  , such as Texas , a divorce  अदालत  may decree an `` equitable distribution ``  of  community  प्रॉपर्टी  , which may  परिणाम  in  an  unequal division of such .
In non-community property states  प्रॉपर्टी  may be divided by equitable distribution .
Generally  बोलना  , the property that each partner brings into the marriage or receives by gift , bequest or devise during  विवाह  is  पुकारा  separate property ( i.e. ,  नहीं  community  प्रॉपर्टी   )   .
देखिए  division of property .
Division  of  community  debts  may not be  the  same as division of community property .
For example , in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , community  प्रॉपर्टी  is  जरूरी  to be  विभाजित  `` equally ''  जबकि  community debt is required to be  विभाजित  `` equitably '' .
Property that is owned by one spouse before  the  marriage is the separate property of  कि   जीवनसाथी  , unless the property is  ``  transmuted '' into community property .
The rules for this vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction .
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge waving to the crowd at The  मॉल  shortly after  the  wedding .
The wedding of Prince William ,  ड्यूक  of Cambridge , and Catherine Middleton took place on  29   अप्रैल  2011 at Westminster Abbey in London .
The groom , Prince William , Duke of  कैम्ब्रिज   ,  is  the  eldest  बेटे  of Charles  ,  Prince  of  Wales , and is second in the line of succession to the British Throne  और  the thrones of fifteen other Commonwealth realms  .
The bride , Catherine `` Kate '' Middleton is  the  eldest of  तीन  children  of  Michael and  carole   मिडलटन  of Bucklebury  ,  Berkshire .
The Dean of Westminster , John Hall , presided at the service  ;  the Archbishop of Canterbury , Rowan Williams , conducted the  विवाह  ; Richard  chartres  , the Bishop  of  London  ,  preached the sermon  ;  and a  पढना  was given by  the  bride  's  brother , James  .
William 's best  man   थी  his brother ,  प्रिंस   हैरी  , while the bride 's  सिस्टर   ,  Pippa  ,   थी  maid of honour .
The ceremony was attended by  the  bride 's and groom 's families , as  खूब  as many foreign royals , diplomats , and the couple  's   चुनी   निजी  guests .
After the ceremony  ,  the couple made the traditional  रूप  on  the  balcony of Buckingham Palace .
As Prince  विलियम  was not the heir apparent to the throne , the wedding was not a  पूरा   राज्य  occasion  और   अनेक  details were left to the couple to decide , such as  much  of the  अतिथि   सूची   of  about 1,900 .
प्रिंस  William and  केट  Middleton met  in  2001 .
उनके  engagement on 20 October 2010 was announced on 16 November 2010 .
The build-up to the wedding and the occasion itself attracted  much   मीडिया   ध्यान  , being compared in many ways with the 1981 marriage  of  William  's  parents .
The occasion was a public holiday  in  the United  किंगडम  and featured  अनेक  ceremonial aspects , including use of the state carriages and roles for the Foot Guards and  household  Cavalry .
Events were  आयोजित  around  the   राष्ट्रमंडल  to mark the wedding ; organisations and hotels held events across Canada , over  5,000   गली  parties were held  throughout  the United Kingdom , and one million people lined the route between Westminster Abbey and Buckingham Palace .
The  रस्म  was viewed  सजीव  by  tens  of millions more around the  संसार  , including 72 million on the YouTube Royal Channel  .
In the United Kingdom ,  टेलीविज़न  audiences peaked at 26.3  लाख  viewers ,  साथ  a total of 36.7  लाख  watching part of the coverage .
Vanessa Joy Lachey  (  née Minnillo ; born  नवम्बर  9 , 1980  )   is  an American television personality , television host , fashion model , and actress .
Minnillo was also  नामित  Miss Teen USA in 1998 .
She has been a New York  -आधारd  correspondent for  entertainment  Tonight and hosted Total  निवेदन  Live on MTV .
A hand ( med . / lat . : manus , pl  .  manūs ) is a prehensile  ,  multi- fingered extremity located at the end  of  an  भुजा   or  forelimb of primates and humans  ,  chimpanzees  ,  monkeys , and lemurs  .
A  few   अन्य  vertebrates  ऐसे  as  the  koala (  जिससे  has  दो  opposable  thumbs  on each `` hand '' and fingerprints remarkably  समान   to  human fingerprints ) are often described  as  having either  ``  hands  ''  or ``  पंजे  '' on their front limbs .
Hands are the  प्रमुख  structures  लिये  physically manipulating the  पर्यावरण  ,  प्रयुक्त  for both  सकल  motor skills ( such as grasping a large object  )  and fine motor  कौशल  ( such as picking up a small pebble  )   .
The fingertips  contain  some of the densest  क्षेत्रों  of nerve endings on the body , are the richest source of  tactile  feedback , and  have  the  महानतम  positioning capability of the body ; thus the sense of touch is intimately associated with hands .
Like other paired organs ( eyes , feet , legs  )  , each hand is dominantly controlled by the  opposing  brain hemisphere ,  so  that  handedness  , or  the  preferred hand choice  लिये  single-handed activities such as writing with a pencil , reflects individual brain  कामकाज  .
Some evolutionary anatomists use the term hand to refer to the appendage of  अंक  on the forelimb more generally — for  उदाहरण  , in  the   कॉन्टेक्स्ट   of  whether the three digits of the bird hand involved  the  same homologous  घाटा  of  दो  digits as in the dinosaur hand  .
The human hand has  27  bones , not  सहित   the  sesamoid  हड्डियों   जिससे  number varies  between  people .
14 of which are  the  phalanges  (  proximal ,  इंटरमीडिएट  and distal  )   of   the  fingers  .
The  metacarpals   हैं  the bones that connects the fingers and the wrist .
प्रत्येक  human hand has 5 metacarpals and 8 carpal bones .
Too Cool  थी   a  professional  कुश्ती  tag team and former faction  सबसे  notably active in World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment between 1998 and 2001 and for a short  समय   in   2004   .
मौलिक  digital alarm  क्लॉक   बगैर  a radio .
The mark in  the  top-left  of   the  display indicates  कि  the time is 4:00pm ,  नहीं  4:00am  .
A 1969  रेडियो  alarm  क्लॉक  ( Sony Digimatic 8FC-59W ) with an early mechanical-digital display .
A digital clock is a type of  क्लॉक  that displays  the  time  डिजिटली  , i.e . in numerals or other symbols ,  as  opposed  to  an analog clock , where the time is  indicated   by  the  स्थितियाँ  of rotating hands .
Digital clocks are  प्रायः   संबद्ध  with electronic drives ,  लकिन  the ``  डिजिटल  '' description refers only to the display , not to the  ड्राइव  mechanism .
( Both  एनालॉग  and digital clocks can  be  driven either mechanically or  electronically   ,  but  ``  clockwork  ''   mechanisms  with digital displays are rare . )
The biggest digital clock is the Lichtzeitpegel ( ``  लाइट   समय  Level ''  )  on the television tower Rheinturm Düsseldorf ,  जर्मनी  .
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides the voices of  पीटर  Griffin , Stewie Griffin , Brian Griffin , and Glenn Quagmire .
परिवार   guy  is an American animated sitcom that  सुविधाएँ  five  प्रमुख  voice actors  ,  and numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars  .
The principal  आवाज़   डाल  consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane  ,   एलेक्स   borstein  , Seth Green , Mila Kunis ( who replaced Lacey  chabert   बाद  the first season )  और  Mike Henry and now , the new actor Beau Osborne .
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton , Adam  वेस्ट  , John G.  ब्रेनन   ,  Nicole Sullivan and Jennifer Tilly , and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller , Charles Durning , Rush Limbaugh , and  फिल  LaMarr .
Many  डाल   सदस्यों  provide voices for multiple characters .
The  आवाज़  actors  ,   in   portraying  the various character personalities on  the   दिखाएँ   ,  draw inspiration from celebrities  और  pop culture .
Family Guy characters have been  निभाई  by more than one actor , after members of the show left the series or had conflicting  दायित्वों  .
Kunis  थी  nominated  लिये  an Annie Award for  voicing   मेग   griffin  in the season 5 episode ``  मुश्किल  Legal  ``  and  macfarlane   रै  also won  an  Emmy  पुरस्कार  for Outstanding Voice-Over  प्रदर्शन   और  an Annie Award for  बेहतरीन  Voice  एक्टिंग  in an Animated  टेलीविज़न  Production ,  हालांकि  no other  डाल  member has won an  पुरस्कार  for  उनके  work on the series .
The  पाँच  sets of the  फलक  game  एकाधिकार  depicted here show the evolution of  the  game 's artwork and designs in the United  राज्य  from 1935–2005 .
The history  of  the board  खेल  Monopoly can  be  traced back  to  the early 20th  सदी  .
The  earliest   ज्ञात  design was by the American  ,  Elizabeth Magie ,  patented  in 1904 but existing as early as 1902 .
Magie  's  original intent  थी  to  प्रकाशित  a board game to illustrate  an  economic  principle   ,   namely  the Georgist concept of a  सिंगल  land  मान  tax  .
A series of board games were developed  इससे  1906 through the 1930s that involved  the  buying and selling of land  और  the development of that  जमीन  .
By 1934 , a board  खेल  had been created  much  like the  संस्करण  of  एकाधिकार  sold by Parker Brothers and its related companies through the rest of the 20th century ,  और  into the 21st .
अनेक   लोगों  ,  ज़्यादातर   in  the  midwestern   संयुक्त  States  और  near the East Coast , contributed to the game  's  design and  एवोल्यूशन   .
by  the 1970s , the idea that the game  था  been  निर्मित  solely by Charles  darrow  had become popular folklore ;  it  was printed in the  खेल  's instructions for  अनेक  years , in a 1974 book devoted  to  Monopoly  ,  and was cited  in  a  सामान्य  book  परिचय  toys  भी  as recently as 2007  .
Even a  मार्गदर्शिका   to   परिवार  games published for Reader 's  डाइजेस्ट  in 2003 only gave credit to Darrow  और  Elizabeth  magie   ,   erroneously  stating  कि  Magie 's original game  थी  created  in  the  1800s  ,  और  not acknowledging  कोई  of the game  's  development between  magie  's creation  of  the game ,  और  the  eventual  publication  by  Parker Brothers .
Also in the  1970s  , Professor Ralph Anspach , who  था  himself published  a  board game intended to illustrate  the  principles of both  monopolies  and  विश्वास   busting   ,  fought  पार्कर  Brothers and its  तब  parent company , General Mills , over the trademarks of  the   एकाधिकार  board game .
Through the research of Anspach and others , much of the early history  of  the game was `` rediscovered '' .
Anspach confronted Maxine Brady  ,   लेखक  of the 1974  किताब  The Monopoly Book :  रणनीति  and Tactics of  the  World 's Most Popular Game over  the   वास्तविक  history of  the  game on Barry Farber 's New  यॉर्क   नगर  talk show in 1975 .
Because of the lengthy court process  ,  including appeals , the legal status of Parker Brothers  '   trademarks  on  the  game was not settled  जबतक  1985  .
The game 's  नाम  remains a registered trademark of  पार्कर  Brothers , as do its  विशिष्ट  design elements .
At the conclusion of the court case , the game 's logo and graphic design elements  became  part of a larger Monopoly brand , licensed by Parker  भाइयो   '  parent companies  onto  a variety of items through the present day .
Despite the  ``  rediscovery '' of the  फलक  game  's   जल्दी   इतिहास  in the 1970s and 1980s , and several  किताबे  and journal articles  on   the  subject , Hasbro ( Parker  भाइयो   '   वर्तमान  parent company  )  did not acknowledge any of  the   खेल   's  history before Charles  darrow  on its official Monopoly website as recently as June 2012 .
Nor did Hasbro acknowledge  anyone   अन्य  than  darrow  in materials published or sponsored by them  ,  at least  as  recently as  2006  .
अंतरराष्ट्रीय  tournaments , first held in the early 1970s , continue  to  the present , with the  अगला  world championship likely scheduled for 2013 .
Starting in  1985  , a new generation of spin-off board games and card games appeared on both  पहलू  of the Atlantic Ocean .
In 1989 , the  पहला  of many video game and computer game  संस्करण  was  प्रकाशित  .
Since 1994  ,  many official variants of the game , based on locations other than  अटलांटिक   नगर  , New Jersey ( the official U.S. setting ) or London (  the  official Commonwealth  सेटिंग  , excepting Canada ) , have  महरूम  published by Hasbro  or  its licensees .
in   2008   ,  Hasbro  permanently  changed the color scheme  और  some of the  gameplay  of the  मानक  U.S . Edition of the game to  मैच  the UK Edition , although the U.S. standard edition maintains the Atlantic City property names .
Hasbro also modified the official logo to give the `` Mr . Monopoly  ''  character a 3-D computer-generated  dekh  , which has since been adopted by  licensees  USAopoly , Winning  चालें  and  जीतना  Solutions .
And Hasbro has also been including the  गति   die  , introduced  in  2006 's Monopoly : The Mega Edition by Winning  चालें   खेल  , in versions produced directly  by  Hasbro (  ऐसे  as the 2009 Championship Edition ) .
In baseball , a sacrifice fly is a  batted  ball  कि  satisfies  चार  criteria:
There are fewer than two outs  जब  the ball  is  hit .
The ball is  hit  to the outfield ( fair or foul ) , or to  infield  foul territory  .
The batter  is  put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder running in  the  outfield  ,  or foul territory ) catches  the  ball on the fly  (  alternatively if the  बैटर  would have been out if not for an error or  if  the outfielder drops the ball and another runner is put out  )  .
A runner who is already on base scores  on   the  play .
It is called a `` sacrifice  ''  fly because the batter  presumably   intends   to  cause a teammate to score a run , while sacrificing his own  क्षमता  to do so .
मिनेसोटा  ( ) is a U.S.  राज्य  located in the Midwestern  संयुक्त   राज्य   .
Minnesota was carved out of  the  eastern  हाफ  of the Minnesota  territory  and  admitted   to  the Union as the 32nd  राज्य  on May 11 , 1858 .
Known as the `` Land of 10,000 Lakes '' ,  the  state 's name comes from a Dakota  शब्द  for `` sky-tinted water ''  .
Those waters , together with forests , parks , and wilderness areas , offer residents  और   पर्यटकों  a variety of outdoor recreational opportunities .
मिनेसोटा  is the 12th most extensive  और  the 21st most populous  of  the U.S. states .
nearly  60 % of its residents  सजीव  in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan area ( known as  the   ``  Twin Cities  ''  ) , the center  of  transportation  ,  business ,  उद्योग  , education  ,  government and home to an  internationally   ज्ञात  arts community .
The  शेष  of the state  consists  of western  prairies  now given over to intensive agriculture ;  पतझड़ी  forests  in  the southeast , now cleared , farmed and settled ; and the less populated North Woods  ,  used for mining  ,  forestry  ,  and  मनोरंजन  .
Minnesota is known for  इसके  relatively mixed social and  राजनैतिक  orientations ,  और  has a high rate of civic participation and  वोटर  turnout  .
Minnesota ranks among  the   healthiest  states , and has a highly  साक्षर  population .
The  विशाल   बहुमत  of residents are of  scandinavian  and  जर्मनी  descent .
The state is known as  a  center  of  Scandinavian  अमरीकी  culture .
जातीय  diversity has increased in  हाल  decades .
Substantial influxes of  एशियाई  , African , and Latin American immigrants have joined  the  descendants of  यूरोपीय  settlers and the original Native American  निवासियों   .
Grants are non-repayable funds by one party ( grant makers  )  , often a government department , corporation , foundation or trust  ,  to a ,  प्रायः   (   लकिन   नहीं  always ) a nonprofit entity ,  शैक्षणिक  institution , business or an individual .
In order to receive  a  grant  ,  some form of `` Grant Writing ''  प्रायः  referred to as either  a  proposal or an application is usually required .
Most grants are made to fund  a  specific  प्रोजेक्ट   और  require some level of compliance  और  reporting .
The grant  लिखने  process involves an applicant submitting a proposal (  or  submission ) to  a  potential funder ,  either   on  the applicant 's  अपना  initiative or  in  response to  a  Request for  प्रस्ताव  from the funder  .
Other  अनुदान  can be given to individuals ,  ऐसे  as victims  of   प्राकृतिक   आपदाओं  or individuals who seek  to  open a small business  .
Sometimes grant makers require grant seekers to have  कुछ  form of  tax-exempt  status  ,   be  a registered nonprofit  संगठन  or a local government .
For  उदाहरण  ,  tiered   funding  for a  फ्रीवे  are very large grants negotiated  at  government policy level .
However  छोटी  grants may be provided by a government agency (  e.g  . municipal government ) .
Project-related funding involving governments , business ,  समुदायों   ,  and individuals  is  often arranged by  अनुप्रयोग  either in writing  or  online  .
Naturally  occurring  cobalt (  co  ) is composed  of   1  stable isotope , 59Co . 28  radioisotopes  have been characterized  साथ  the most  stable  being 60Co  साथ  a  half-life  of  5.2714   सालो  , 57Co  साथ  a half-life of 271.79 days , 56Co with a  half-life  of 77.27 days , and 58Co with a  half-life  of 70.86 days .
All of the remaining  रेडियोसक्रिय  isotopes  have  half-lives that are less  than  18 hours and the majority of these  have  half-lives that are  कम   than  1  दूसरी  .
This  तत्व  also has 11 meta  राज्य  , all  of  which have half-lives less  than  15  मिनट्स  .
The isotopes  of  cobalt  दायरा  in  परमाणु  weight from 47Co to 75Co .
The primary decay mode for isotopes with atomic  द्रव्यमान   ईकाई  values less than  कि  of the most abundant stable isotope , 59Co , is electron capture  और   the   प्राथमिक  mode of decay for  those   of  greater than  59   परमाणु  mass units is beta  क्षय  .
The primary decay  उत्पाद  before 59Co are iron isotopes and  the  primary products after are nickel isotopes .
Standard  परमाणु  mass : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
जो  Moved My Cheese  ?
an   अद्भुत  Way to Deal with Change in Your  कार्य  and in Your Life ,  प्रकाशित  in 1998 ,  is  a motivational  किताब  by Spencer  जॉनसन  written in the style  of  a parable or business fable .
It describes  बदलें  in one 's work and life , and  चार  typical reactions to said change by two mice and two `` littlepeople '' , during their  हंट  for cheese .
A  नई  York Times business bestseller since  रिलीज  , Who Moved My Cheese ?
remained  on  the list  लिये  almost five years and spent  over  200  सप्ताह   on   प्रकाशक  Weekly 's  सजिल्द  nonfiction  सूची  .
It has sold more  than   26  million copies worldwide in 37 languages and  remains  to be one  of  the best-selling business books  .
Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev ( –  सितंबर  11 ,  1971  )  led  the  सोवियत  Union during part  of  the  ठंडा  War  .
He  परोसा   as   पहला  Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union from 1953 to 1964 , and as Chairman of the Council of Ministers , or Premier ,  इससे   1958  to  1964  .
Khrushchev was responsible for the partial de-Stalinization of the Soviet  संघ  , for backing the  प्रगति  of the early Soviet space program , and for several relatively liberal reforms in areas  of  domestic policy .
Khrushchev 's party colleagues removed him  इससे  power in 1964 ,  replacing  him with Leonid  brezhnev   as  First Secretary and Alexei Kosygin as Premier .
Khrushchev was born in  the  Russian village of Kalinovka in 1894 , close to the present-day border between Russia and Ukraine  .
He was employed as a metalworker in his youth  ,  and during  the  Russian Civil War was  a  political commissar .
With the help of  lazar   kaganovich  , he worked  उसके   रास्ता  up the Soviet  पदानुक्रम   .
He supported  जोसेफ  Stalin 's  purges   ,  and  स्वीकृत  thousands of arrests .
In 1939 , Stalin sent him to govern  युक्त  , and  he   जारी   the  purges there .
During what  थी  known in the  सोवियत   संघ  as the Great  patriotic  War  (  Eastern Front of World War II ) ,  khrushchev  was again a commissar , serving as an intermediary between Stalin and  उसके  generals .
Khrushchev was present at the  खूनी   रक्षा  of  stalingrad  , a  फैक्ट  he took great pride in throughout his life .
After the war , he returned to Ukraine before being recalled to Moscow as one of Stalin 's close advisers .
in  the power struggle triggered by Stalin 's death in 1953 , Khrushchev , after several years  ,  emerged  विजयी  .
On February 25 , 1956 , at the 20th  पार्टी  Congress , he delivered  the  `` Secret Speech ,  ''  denouncing Stalin 's purges  और  ushering  in  a  कम  repressive  era  in the Soviet Union .
His  घरेलू  policies , aimed at bettering the lives of ordinary  नागरिकों  , were often ineffective , especially in the area  of   कृषि  .
उम्मीद  eventually to rely  on  missiles for national defense , Khrushchev ordered major cuts in conventional forces .
Despite the cuts ,  khrushchev  's rule  देखी  the tensest years of  the  Cold War , culminating in  the  Cuban Missile Crisis  .
Some of Khrushchev 's policies were  देखी  as erratic , particularly by his emerging rivals ,  जो  quietly rose  in  strength and deposed him in  अक्तूबर   1964  .
he   किया  not suffer the deadly fate of some previous  losers  of Soviet power struggles , but was pensioned off with an apartment in Moscow  और   a  dacha in  the  countryside .
His  lengthy  memoirs were smuggled  to   the  West and published in part in 1970 .
khrushchev  died  in   1971  of heart disease .
Upper gastrointestinal ( GI ) bleeding refers to  hemorrhage  in the  अपर  gastrointestinal tract .
The anatomic cut-off for  अपर  GI bleeding is the ligament of Treitz ,  जिससे  connects  the  fourth portion  of   the  duodenum to the  diaphragm  near  the  splenic flexure of the colon .
Upper GI bleeds are considered medical emergencies , and  आवश्यकता   प्रवेश  to hospital for urgent diagnosis and management .
Due to  अग्रिम   in  medications and endoscopy , upper GI  hemorrhage   is  now usually treated  बगैर   सर्जरी  .
World population estimates from  1800  to 2100 , based on UN 2010  projections  (  रेड  , orange , green ) and US  जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau historical estimates ( black ) .
Actual recorded  जनसांख्यिकी  figures  हैं  in blue .
According to the highest estimate , the world population may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate  ,  it may decline to 6 billion .
The  संसार  population is the total number of living humans on Earth .
As of today , it is estimated to number billion  by  the  संयुक्त  States Census Bureau  (  USCB ) .
The USCB estimates that the  संसार  population exceeded  7  billion on March 12 ,  2012  .
According to a separate estimate by the  संयुक्त  Nations Population Fund  ,  it reached this milestone on October 31  ,  2011 .
The world population has experienced  निरन्तर  growth  चूंकि   the   समाप्त  of the Great Famine and  the  Black Death  in  1350 ,  जब  it stood at around 370 million .
The highest  दरों  of growth – global population  increases  above 1.8 %  प्रति  year – were  देखी   briefly  during the 1950s , and for a longer period during the 1960s and  1970s  .
the  growth rate peaked at 2.2 %  in  1963 , and  था  declined to 1.1 %  by   2011  .
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s  at  about 138  लाख  , and are now expected  to   remain  essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million , while deaths number  56  million per year , and are expected to increase  to  80 million per year  by  2040 .
वर्तमान  projections  दिखाएँ   a  continued increase in population in  the  near  भविष्य  ( but  a  steady decline in the population growth rate ) , with the global  जनसांख्यिकी  expected to  पहुँचें  between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term  estimates  predict further growth , stagnation  ,  or even overall decline in the global population by  2150  .
Some analysts  have   questioned  the  स्थिरता  of further world  जनसांख्यिकी   विकास  ,  citing  the growing pressures  on  the  पर्यावरण  , global  खाना   आपूर्तियाँ  , and energy resources  .
Philips  lumileds  Lighting Company is the manufacturer of  a   चौड़ी  range of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ) .
It is a now a fully owned division of Philips Lighting .
Knuckle mnemonic for the number  of  days in each month of the Gregorian Calendar .
Each projecting knuckle represents  a  31-day month .
A  mnemonic   (  , with a silent `` m  ''   )   ,  or mnemonic  यंत्र  , is any learning technique that  एड्स  information retention .
Mnemonics aim  to  translate information into a form  कि  the  इंसान  brain can retain better than its  असली  form  .
Even the process of applying this conversion might  already   सहायता  the transfer  of  information to long-term memory  .
Commonly encountered mnemonics are often for lists and in auditory  रूप   ,  such  as   छोटी  poems  ,  acronyms , or memorable phrases , but mnemonics can  भी   be  for  अन्य  types of information and in visual or kinesthetic forms .
Their use  is   आधारित  on  the   अवलोकन  that the human mind more easily remembers spatial , personal , surprising , physical , sexual , humorous ,  or  otherwise 'relatable  '  information , rather than more abstract or impersonal forms of information .
The word mnemonic is derived from the Ancient Greek word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos )  ,  meaning ``  of  memory  ''  and is  सम्बन्धित  to  mnemosyne   (  `` remembrance  ''   )  , the name of the goddess of memory  in  Greek  mythology  .
Both of these words are derived from μνήμη ( mnēmē ) , `` remembrance , memory '' .
Mnemonics in antiquity were most often considered in  the  context  of   कया  is today known as the Art of memory .
प्राचीन  Greeks  और  Romans  विशिष्ट  between two types of memory :  the  'natural '  मेमोरी  and the 'artificial ' memory .
The  पूर्व   is   inborn  ,  और  is  the  one that everyone uses automatically  और  without thinking .
The artificial memory in contrast has to be trained  और  developed through the learning and practicing  of  a variety of mnemonic  तकनीकों  .
Mnemonic systems are  खास  techniques or strategies  consciously  used to improve memory , it helps  employ  information already stored in  long-term  memory to make  memorization  an easier task  .
President  बुश  signing  the  No Child Left  पीछे  Act at Hamilton H.S . in Hamilton , Ohio .
The No Child Left Behind  अधिनियम  of 2001 ( NCLB )  is  a  संयुक्त  States Act of Congress that is a reauthorization of the  elementary   और  Secondary Education Act  ,  which included Title I , the  सरकारी  's  फ्लैगशिप   सहायता  program for disadvantaged  विद्यार्थी  .
NCLB  supports  standards-based education  सुधार  based on the premise that setting high standards and establishing measurable goals can improve individual  outcomes  in  शिक्षा   .
The Act requires states  to   develop  assessments in basic  कौशल  .
States  जरूर  give these assessments to all students at select grade levels in order to receive federal school funding .
The Act does not assert a national  उपलब्धि  standard ;  मानकों   हैं   नियत  by each  व्यक्तिगत   राज्य  .
NCLB expanded the federal role in public  शिक्षा  through annual testing , annual academic  प्रगति  , report cards , teacher qualifications ,  और  funding changes .
The bill  passed  in  the  U.S. Congress with bipartisan  support   .
Dodge B Series utility circa 1950 , driven by Albert  namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up , often simply referred to  as  a pickup , is a light  मोटर  vehicle with an open-top , rear  कार्गो  area ( bed ) .
in  North America  ,  the term pickup is used  लिये  light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and  फैक्टरी   निर्मित  , integrated bed , as well as for  coupé  utility vehicles , often based on a personal car chassis , but  भी  often on a special dedicated chassi for such use .
Some countries have their  अपना  terms similar to pickup , such  as  ute in Australia  और  New Zealand , or bakkie in  दक्षिण  Africa  .
Large pickup trucks  हैं   somewhat   विरल   in  Europe ,  जहाँ  vans and light lorries are commonly used for  समान   भूमिकाएँ  .
इस  15th-century depiction of  शारलेमेन  and Pope Adrian I shows a well-bred medieval horse with arched neck , refined head and elegant gait .
Horses  in  the Middle Ages  differed  in size , build and breed from the modern horse , and  यहूद  ,  on  average , smaller .
They were also more central to society than their modern counterparts , being essential for war , agriculture ,  और  transport .
नतीजतन  , specific types of horse developed , many of  जिससे   have   no  modern equivalent .
While an understanding  of  modern horse  breeds  and equestrianism  is  vital for  कोई   विश्लेषण  of  the   मध्यकालीन  horse , researchers also  need  to consider  वृत्तचित्र  (  दोनो  written and pictorial )  और  archaeological evidence .
घोड़े  in the Middle Ages were rarely differentiated by  नस्ल  , but rather by use .
This led them to be described  ,  for  उदाहरण  , as `` chargers `` (  युद्ध  horses ) , `` palfreys `` ( riding horses  )  ,  कार्ट  horses or packhorses .
Reference is also given to their place  of  origin  ,  such as ``  स्पेनी  horses , '' but whether this referred to one breed or  अनेक  is unknown .
Another difficulty arising  दौरान  any study of medieval documents or literature is the  लचीलापन  of the medieval  भाषाएं  , where several words can be used for one thing ( or , conversely  ,  several objects  हैं  referred to by one word ) .
Words such as ' courser ' and  'चार्जr   '   हैं  used  interchangeably  (  भी  within one document  )  , and where  एक  epic may speak disparagingly of  a  rouncey  ,   another  praises its skill and swiftness .
Significant technological  अग्रिम   in  equestrian equipment , often  introduced  from other cultures , allowed for significant changes in both  warfare  and agriculture  .
In particular , improved  डिजाइन  for the solid-treed saddle  as   खूब  as  the  arrival of the stirrup , horseshoe and horse collar were significant advances in  मध्यकालीन  society .
Consequently , the assumptions and theories developed by historians are not definitive , and debate still rages on many issues  ,  such as the breeding or size  of   the  horse , and  a  number of sources  जरूर  be  consulted  in order to understand the breadth of the subject .
The Music  man   is  a musical with book ,  म्यूज़िक  , and lyrics  by   मेरेडिथ  Willson , based  on  a story by  willson  and Franklin Lacey .
The plot concerns  कॉन  man Harold Hill , who poses as a boys ' band organizer and  नेता  and sells  बैंड  instruments and  वर्दी  to naive townsfolk before skipping town with the cash .
In  नदी  City , Iowa , prim librarian and piano  टीचर  Marian  paroo  sees through him  ,  but  जब  Hill  helps  her younger  bhai  overcome his fear of social interactions due to his lisp ,  marian  begins to  पतन  in love with Harold .
हेरोल्ड  , in turn  गिरना  for Marian  ,   risks  being caught to  जीत  her .
In 1957  ,  the show became a  hit  on Broadway , winning five Tony  पुरस्कार   ,  including Best Musical  ,  and running for 1,375 performances .
The cast  एल्बम  won the first Grammy Award for `` Best Original Cast  एल्बम  '' and was  क्रमांक  one on the Billboard charts for 245 weeks .
The show 's  कामयाबी  led to revivals and a popular 1962 film  अनुकूलन  and  a  2003  टेलीविज़न  remake .
it  frequently is produced by both  पेशेवर   और  amateur  थिएटर  companies .
Surveyor 's wheel
a  surveyor 's wheel , also  पुकारा  a clickwheel ,  hodometer  ,  waywiser  , trundle wheel , measuring wheel , or perambulator is a device for measuring distance  .
Largest  non-polar  deserts
Sand  टीले  in the Rub ' al Khali  (   ``   खाली  quarter '' ) of Saudi Arabia .
Makhtesh  रेमन  , Negev  मरुस्थल  ,  इसराईल
A desert is a landscape or region of land that  is   बहुत  dry because of low rainfall amounts ( precipitation ) , often has little coverage by plants , and in which streams dry up  जबतक   वे   हैं  supplied by water from outside areas .
Deserts can also be described as areas where more  जल  is lost by evapotranspiration than falls as precipitation .
मरुस्थल  plants must  have   खास  adaptations to survive with this little water  .
Deserts generally receive  कम  than 25 cm  of  rain ( precipitation  )  each year .
Semideserts or steppes  हैं  regions which  प्राप्त  between and .
In the Köppen climate  वर्गीकरण  system , deserts are classed as BWh (  hot  desert ) or BWk ( temperate desert  )  .
In  the  Thornthwaite climate classification system , deserts would be classified as arid megathermal climates .
World War I ( WWI ) was a  वैश्विक  war centred  in  Europe that began on  28  July 1914 and lasted until 11  नवम्बर  1918 .
It  थी   predominantly   पुकारा  the World War or the Great War from its occurrence  जबतक   the  start of World War II in 1939 ,  और  the First World  युद्ध   or  World  युद्ध   i  thereafter .
It  शामिल  all the world 's  ग्रेट  powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances :  the   allies  ( based  on  the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom ,  फ़्रांस  and  रूस  ) and the Central  शक्तियां   (   originally   the  Triple Alliance of Germany ,  austria-hungary  and  इटली  ; but , as Austria–Hungary  था   लिया  the offensive against the agreement ,  इटली  did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and  विस्तारित  as more nations entered  the   युद्ध  : Italy , Japan and the  संयुक्त  States  joined  the Allies , and the Ottoman  साम्राज्य  and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more  than  70 million military personnel  ,  including  60  million  europeans  , were mobilised in one of the largest wars  in  history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed , largely because of technological advancements  कि   led  to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons  बगैर   सम्बन्धित   सुधार  in protection or mobility .
It  थी  the fifth- deadliest  विरोध  in  संसार   इतिहास  , subsequently  paving   the  way for various political changes  ,  such as revolutions in  अनेक   of   the   राष्ट्र  involved .
One of the  long-term  causes of the war was the resurgence of  साम्राज्यवाद  in  the   विदेशी  policies of the  ग्रेट   शक्तियां  of Europe  .
More  तत्काल  , the assassination of  archduke   फ्रांज  Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to  the  throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28  जून  1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in  साराजेवो  triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary  subsequently  delivered an  ultimatum  to  the  Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked .
Within weeks , the major powers  यहूद  at war and  ,  via their colonies , the  विरोध   जल्द  spread around the world .
On 28 July , the  austro-hungarians   fired  the first shots of  the  war  as   तैयारी  for the invasion of Serbia .
While the  russians  mobilised  ,  the Germans invaded  न्यूट्रल  Belgium and Luxembourg on the  रास्ता  to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's  घोषणा  of war against Germany .
बाद  the German  कूच   on  Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the  marne  —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a  गर्त   लकीर   कि  changed little until 1917  .
On the Eastern Front ,  the  Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians , but was stopped in its  आक्रमण  of  ईस्ट  Prussia by the Germans .
In November  the  Ottoman Empire joined the war , opening up  fronts  in the Caucasus ,  मेसोपोटामिया  and the Sinai .
इटली  and Bulgaria went to war  in  1915 and Romania in 1916  .
in  Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in  कूच  1917 and a  subsequent  revolution in November brought the Russians to  शर्तें  with the Central Powers .
बाद  a  1918  German offensive  साथ  the western  सामने  , the  allies  drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives  और  American forces began entering  the  trenches .
Germany , which  था  its  अपना  trouble with revolutionaries , agreed to  an  armistice  on  11 November 1918  .
the  war ended in victory for the Allies .
Events on the home fronts were  as  tumultuous as  on  the  बैटल   fronts  , as the  भागीदार  tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources  to   लड़ो  a total war .
by   the   समाप्त   of   the  war ,  चार  major imperial powers—the German ,  रूसी   ,  Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the  पूर्व  two lost a great amount  of  territory ,  जबकि  the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The map of  सेंट्रल  Europe was  redrawn  into  अनेक  smaller states .
the  League of Nations was  formed   in  the  आशा  of  preventing  another such conflict  .
The European nationalism  शाखित  by the  युद्ध  and the breakup of  empires  , the repercussions  of  Germany 's defeat and problems with the  सन्धि  of Versailles  हैं  agreed to be  कारकों  contributing to World War II .
`` Girls  बस  Want  to  Have Fun  ''   is   a  1979 song originally written by Robert Hazard  और  made famous by singer Cyndi  lauper  .
It was the first major single released  by  Lauper as a  सोलो   कलाकार   और   the  lead-off single from her debut album She 's So Unusual .
Lauper’s  संस्करण  gained recognition as a feminist anthem and promoted by an award-winning  वीडियो  .
It has been covered on  either   an  album  or   in  live concert by  over  30 other artists .
the   सिंगल  was Lauper 's breakthrough hit , reaching #  2   on   the   बिलबोर्ड   hot   100  and becoming a worldwide hit throughout  लेट  1983 and early 1984 .
It  remains  one of Lauper 's signature songs  और   थी  a  widely  popular  सोंग  during the era of its release  ,  the 1980s  .
The `` Rolling Stone & MTV :  '100   महानतम  Pop  गीतों  ' :  1-50   ''  , `` Rolling Stone : `` The 100 Top Music Videos '' ''  और  the `` VH1 : 100  महानतम   वीडियो  '' lists ranked the song at # 22  ,  # 39 and # 45 ,  क्रमशः  .
the  song  प्राप्त  a Grammy Award  नामांकन  for Record  of  the Year and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance .
View of defibrillator electrode position and placement .
Defibrillation  is   a  common treatment for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias , ventricular fibrillation , and pulseless ventricular tachycardia .
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical energy to the affected  दिल  with a device called a defibrillator .
इस  depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle , terminates the  dysrhythmia  ,  और   allows  normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker , in the sinoatrial  नोड  of the  दिल   .
Defibrillators can be external  ,  transvenous , or implanted , depending on the type of device used  or  needed  .
कुछ  external units , known as automated external defibrillators  (  AEDs ) , automate the  निदान   of  treatable  लय  , meaning that lay responders or  bystanders  are  समर्थ  to use them successfully with little , or in  कुछ   मामले  no training at all  .
the  Cato Institute is  an  American libertarian think tank headquartered in Washington , D.C .
It was founded as the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by Murray Rothbard  ,   ed  Crane and Charles Koch , chairman of  the  board and chief executive officer of the conglomerate  koch  Industries ,  inc.  .
In  जुलाई  1976 ,  the  name was changed  to  the Cato  संस्थान  .
According to the 2011 Global Go To  सोचो  Tank Index , Cato is the 6th  सबसे  influential US based  सोचो  tank , ranking 3rd in Economic Policy and 2nd  in  Social Policy .
the  Institute 's stated mission is ``  to   बढ़ाएँ  the understanding of public policies based  on   the  principles of limited government  ,  free  बाज़ार  , individual liberty ,  और  peace .
The Institute will use the most  प्रभावी  means to originate , advocate , promote , and disseminate applicable policy proposals that create free  ,  open , and civil societies in the  संयुक्त  States and throughout the world .  ''
Cato scholars were critical of George  W.  Bush 's Republican administration ( 2001–2009 ) on several  मुद्दे  , including the Iraq  युद्ध   ,  civil liberties , education ,  कृषि   ,  energy  नीति  , and excessive  सरकारी  spending .
on  other issues , they  समर्थित  Bush  प्रशासन  initiatives , most notably health care  ,  Social Security , global warming , tax policy ,  और  immigration  .
During the 2008  u.S.  presidential election  ,  Cato scholars criticized both major-party  उम्मीदवार   ,  John McCain and Barack  ओबामा  .
केटो  has criticized President Obama 's stances on  नीति   मुद्दे  since his inauguration  ,  such  as   फिस्कल  stimulus  ,   healthcare  reform  ,  foreign policy , and the War on Drugs ,  जबकि  supporting his stance on the repeal of Do n't Ask , Do n't  बताना  and liberal immigration policy .
ड्रैकुला  is  an  1897  गोथिक   हॉरर   अनोखा  by Irish author Bram Stoker  .
Famous for introducing the  अक्षर  of the vampire Count  ड्रैकुला  , the novel tells the story of Dracula 's  attempt  to  relocate  from Transylvania to  इंग्लैण्ड  , and the battle between Dracula and a small  समूह  of men  और  women led by Professor Abraham Van Helsing  .
Dracula has been assigned  to  many literary genres including vampire literature , horror fiction , the  गोथिक  novel and invasion  साहित्य   .
the  novel  छू  on themes  ऐसे  as  the  role of women in Victorian culture ,  यौन  conventions , immigration  ,   उपनिवेशवाद  , and  post-colonialism  .
Although Stoker did not invent the  पिशाच  , he defined its modern form ,  और  the novel has spawned numerous theatrical , film and television interpretations .
Quidditch is a  प्रतिस्पर्धी  sport in the wizarding  संसार  of the Harry Potter universe , and is  इससे  the  श्रेणी   of  children 's novels and movies .
It is an extremely rough but very popular semi-contact sport , played  by   wizards  and witches .
Matches are played between two teams of seven players  सवारी  flying broomsticks , using four balls  और  six elevated ring-shaped  लक्ष्य  , three on each side of the Quidditch pitch ( field ) .
In the Harry  कुम्हार  universe  ,  Quidditch holds  a  fervent following similar to the  स्थिति  that association football holds as a globally popular sport .
The sport is monumental throughout  the  wizarding world .
Harry plays an important position for his house team at Hogwarts :  he  is  the  seeker  और  becomes  the  captain in  उसके  sixth year there .
Regional and international competitions are mentioned throughout the  श्रेणी  .
in  Goblet of  आग  , Quidditch at Hogwarts  is  cancelled for the Tri-Wizard Tournament ,  लकिन  Harry and  the   weasleys  attend the Quidditch World Cup .
In  जोड   ,  Harry uses his Quidditch skills to capture a golden egg from a dragon called the Hungarian  horntail   (  in the first task  of  the Tri-Wizard Tournament ) , to capture a flying key in Philosopher 's  स्टोन   ,  and on two key occasions  in  Deathly Hallows — getting hold of Ravenclaw  's  Diadem , and  दौरान  the final  लड़ो  with Voldemort — the ``  unerring   कौशल  of the Seeker ''  is  useful to him in snatching the Elder  wand  out of the air  .
Harry Potter  रै   स्वामित्व   दो  broomsticks , the Nimbus 2000 and the Firebolt , both of which are destroyed  by  the series ' end .
The game has  महरूम  adopted  in   the  real world in the form of Muggle  quidditch   .
The United States  कॉंग्रेस  is the bicameral  विधानमंडल  of the  संघीय  government of the  संयुक्त  States consisting of two houses : the lower house known as the  हाउस   of  Representatives and the  अपर  house  ज्ञात  as the Senate  .
Congress meets in the Capitol in Washington , D.C .
दोनो   प्रतिनिधि  and  सीनेटरों  are chosen  through  direct election .
कॉंग्रेस   रै  a total  of  535 voting members  :  435 members  in  the House of  प्रतिनिधि  and  100   सदस्यों  in the Senate .
Members of the House of Representatives  serve  two-year  शर्तें  representing the people  of  a district .
congressional   जिले  are  apportioned  to states by  जनसांख्यिकी  using the United States  जनसांख्यिकी  results ,  प्रत्येक   राज्य   in  the union having  at   तनिक  one representative  in   the   हाउस  of Representatives  .
Regardless of population , each of the 50 states has two senators ; the 100 senators each  serve  a six-year term .
The  शर्तें  are  लड़खड़ाते   so  every two  सालो  approximately  one-third  of the  सीनेट  is up for election .
Each  लड़खड़ाते  group of one-third of the  सीनेटरों   हैं  called 'classes ' .
No state  of   the  United States  रै  two senators from the same class .
Most incumbents seek re-election , and their  ऐतिहासिक  likelihood  of   जीतना  subsequent  चुनावों  exceeds 90 percent  .
in   अगस्त   2012   ,  a Gallup poll  reported  that Congress’s approval rating amongst  अमेरिकी  was at 10 % ,  मिलान   a  38-year  कम  reached  in  November 2011 .
``  A Little More Country Than  कि   ''  is the title of a song  लिखा   by  Joey  +  Rory  's   रोरी   ली  Feek , Wynn Varble ,  और  Don  poythress  ,  और  recorded by American country artist Easton Corbin .
It was released in  अगस्त  2009 as Corbin 's debut single and is included on his self-titled debut  एल्बम  .
In April 2010  ,  the  सोंग  reached Number  एक  on the country music charts , making Corbin  the  first male solo artist in  सात  years to send a  डेब्यू  single to Number One .
It has been certified Gold by the RIAA .
The  ब्लैकबेरी   is   a  line of wireless handheld  डिवाइस  and services designed and  marketed  by Research In Motion Limited ( RIM )  ऑपरेटिंग  as  ब्लैकबेरी  .
The  पहला  BlackBerry device , an email pager , was  released  in 1999 ; the most recent BlackBerry devices , the Z10 and Q10 ,  यहूद  announced  on  January 30  ,  2013 .
the  user interface varies  by  model ;  सबसे   विशेषता   a  physical QWERTY  कुंजीपटल  ,  जबकि  newer  पीढियां  have relied on a multi-touch screen and virtual keyboard  .
A BlackBerry can shoot video , take photos  ,   खेल  music , and perform online functions such as web-browsing and emailing .
They can  भी  send and receive push email and instant messages while maintaining a high level of security  through  on-device  संदेश  encryption , and are  designed  to function as personal digital assistants .
BlackBerry devices support a large variety of instant messaging features  ,  with  the  most popular being the proprietary BlackBerry Messenger service  .
the  BlackBerry PlayBook is a tablet computer  offered  by the company .
The  100   millionth  BlackBerry smartphone  थी  shipped in June quarter  of  2010 and the 200 millionth  स्मार्टफोन   थी  shipped in  सितंबर  quarter of 2012 .
BlackBerry  खाते  for  3  % of mobile device  बिक्री  worldwide in 2011  ,   बनाना  its manufacturer the sixth  सबसे  popular device  मेकर  ( 25 % of mobile device  बिक्री  are smartphones ) .
The  उपभोक्ता  BlackBerry  अंतरजाल  Service is available in 91  देशों  worldwide on over 500 mobile  सेवा  operators using various mobile technologies .
As of September 2012  ,  there were  अस्सी  million subscribers  विश्वव्यापी  to BlackBerry .
In 2011 the  caribbean  and Latin America had the highest penetrations  of   ब्लैकबेरी   स्मार्टफ़ोन  worldwide , with up to about 45 per cent in the region having a RIM device  .
BlackBerry , iPhone , Android , and Windows  फोन   हैं  considered the four major  स्मार्टफोन  brands  .
BlackBerry is  widely  referred to as  ``  CrackBerry '' in the United States ,  जिससे  alludes to its  excessive  use by its owners  और  is a reference to the  addictiveness  of  क्रैक  cocaine  .
Use of  the   पद  CrackBerry  became  so widespread that  in  November 2006  वेबस्टर  's New  संसार  College Dictionary named `` crackberry '' the `` New  शब्द  of the Year  .   ''
an  example of a demand  वक्र  shifting .
The shift from D1 To D2 means an increase in demand with  consequences  for the other variables
in  economics ,  the  demand curve is  the  graph depicting the relationship between the price of a certain commodity and  the  amount of it that consumers are willing and  समर्थ  to purchase at that given price .
It is a graphic representation  of   a  demand  अनुसूची   .
The demand  वक्र  for all consumers  साथ   फ़ॉलो  from the demand  वक्र  of every individual consumer : the individual demands at  प्रत्येक  price are added together .
Demand curves  हैं  used  to   अनुमान  behaviors in competitive markets , and  हैं  often combined with supply curves to estimate  the   संतुलन  price ( the  दाम   at  which  विक्रेता   साथ  are willing to sell the same amount as buyers together are willing to buy , also known as market clearing price ) and the equilibrium  मात्रा  (  the  amount of that good or service  कि  will be produced  और   खरीदा  without surplus/excess supply or shortage/excess demand ) of that market .
In a monopolistic market  ,   the  demand curve facing the monopolist is  बस   the   मार्केट  demand curve .
historia
by  Nikolaos Gysis ( 1892 )
History (  इससे  Greek - historia , meaning `` inquiry , knowledge acquired  by   छानबीन  '' ) is an umbrella term  कि  relates to  पास्ट  events as well as  the  discovery , collection , organization  ,  and presentation of information about these events .
The term includes cosmic  ,  geologic , and organic history , but  is  often generically implied to mean human  इतिहास  .
विद्वानों  who write about  इतिहास   हैं  called historians .
इतिहास  can also refer to the academic discipline which uses a narrative  to  examine and analyse a sequence of past events ,  और  objectively determine  the   पैटर्न  of cause and  प्रभाव  that  determine  them  .
Historians sometimes debate the nature of  इतिहास   और  its usefulness by discussing the study of  the  discipline as  an  end in itself and as a  रास्ता  of providing  ``   परिप्रेक्ष्य  ''  on  the problems of  the  present .
Stories common to  a  particular culture  ,  but not supported by external sources  (   ऐसे  as the  किस्से  surrounding King Arthur )  हैं   प्रायः  classified  as  cultural heritage  or  legends , because they do not support  the  `` disinterested  छानबीन  '' required  of  the discipline of  इतिहास  .
Events occurring prior to written record are  माना  prehistory .
हिरोडोटस  , a 5th century B.C  .  Greek historian  is  considered within the Western tradition to be the  ``  father of history '' ,  और  , along with  उसके  contemporary Thucydides , helped  रूप  the foundations for the modern study of  इंसान  history .
Their  कार्य  continues to be read today and the divide  between  the culture-focused Herodotus  और  the  military-focused  Thucydides remains a point of contention or approach in modern historical  लिखने  .
in  the  पूर्वी  tradition , a state chronicle  the  Spring  और  Autumn Annals was known to be compiled from  as  early as 722 BCE although only 2nd century BCE  ग्रन्थ  survived .
Ancient influences have helped spawn variant  interpretations  of  the  nature of history which  have  evolved over the centuries and continue to change today .
The modern study of history is wide-ranging  ,  and includes the  पढ़ाई  of specific regions and  the  study of certain topical  or  thematical elements of historical investigation .
Often history is taught as part of primary and secondary education ,  और  the academic study of history is a major discipline in University studies .
Malcolm X ( ; May 19 ,  1925february  21 , 1965 )  ,  born  मैल्कम  Little  और  also known as El-Hajj Malik  el-shabazz  (  )  , was an African-American Muslim minister and human rights  activist   .
To his  admirers  , he  थी  a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks , a  man   जो  indicted white America in  the  harshest terms for its crimes against black Americans .
detractors  accused him of preaching racism , black supremacy ,  और  violence  .
He has  महरूम  called one of the  महानतम  and most influential African Americans in history .
Malcolm X  's  father  died—killed  by  श्वेत  supremacists , it was rumored—when he was young , and at least  एक  of his uncles was  lynched  .
When he was 13 , his  माँ  was placed in a mental hospital ,  और  he was placed in a series  of  foster homes .
In 1946  ,  at age 20 , he  गई  to prison for breaking and  प्रवेश   .
in  prison ,  मैल्कम  X became a  सदस्य  of the  स्वदेश  of Islam ; after his  पैरोल  in  1952  , he  जल्दी  rose to become one of its leaders .
For a  दर्जन  years , Malcolm X was the public face of  the  controversial group , but disillusionment with Nation of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led him  to  leave the Nation in March  1964   .
After a  काल  of  सफर  in Africa and the Middle East , he returned  to   the  United States , where  he   संस्थापित  Muslim Mosque  ,  Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American  एकता  .
In February 1965  ,  less than a year after  leaving  the Nation of Islam , he  थी  assassinated by three  सदस्यों  of the group .
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs changed substantially over  समय  .
As a spokesman  लिये  the  स्वदेश  of Islam he  सिखाया  black supremacy  और  advocated separation of black and white Americans —in contrast to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration .
After  तोड़कर   साथ  the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association with  it  , `` I did many things as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now  .
I was a zombie then  ...  pointed  in  a certain direction  और   बताई  to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim , he disavowed  जातिवाद  and expressed  willingness  to work  साथ  civil rights leaders , he  जारी  to emphasize Pan-Africanism , black self-determination ,  और  self-defense .
Henry  merritt  ``  हांक  ''  paulson  , Jr. ( born March 28 , 1946 ) is an American banker who served as the 74th  संयुक्त  States Secretary of the Treasury .
he  had served as the Chairman and  मुख्य  Executive Officer of Goldman Sachs  ,  and  is  now chairman of the Paulson Institute , which he founded  in  2011 to promote sustainable economic  विकास   और  a cleaner environment around  the  world , with an initial focus on the United States and  चीन  .
A virtual machine ( VM ) is  a  software implemented  abstraction   of  the underlying hardware , which  is  presented to the application layer of the  प्रणाली  .
Virtual  मशीने   may  be based on specifications  of  a  काल्पनिक   कंप्यूटर   or  emulate  the  computer architecture and functions  of  a real world computer .
Spiders ( order Araneae  )  are  air-breathing   arthropods  that have  आठ  legs and chelicerae with fangs that  इंजेक्ट  venom .
They are the  largest   अनुक्रम   of   arachnids  and rank seventh  in   कुल  species diversity among  सब  other  समूह  of organisms  .
Spiders are found worldwide  on   प्रत्येक  continent except for Antarctica  ,  and  have  become  स्थापित  in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization .
As of 2008 , at least  43,678  spider  प्रजाति   ,  and 109 families have been  अंकित  by taxonomists ; however , there has been confusion within the  वैज्ञानिक  community as to how all these  परिवारों  should be classified  ,  as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been  प्रस्तावित  since 1900 .
Anatomically , spiders differ from other arthropods  in  that the usual body segments  हैं  fused into two  tagmata  , the cephalothorax and abdomen ,  और  joined  by  a  छोटी  , cylindrical  pedicel  .
Unlike insects , spiders do not have antennae .
in  all except the most  आदिम   समूह  , the Mesothelae ,  मकड़ियों  have the most centralized nervous systems  of  all arthropods , as all their ganglia are  fused  into one mass in the cephalothorax .
Unlike most arthropods , spiders  have  no extensor muscles in their limbs and instead  extend  them by hydraulic  दबाव  .
उनके  abdomens bear appendages that have been  परिवर्धित   into   spinnerets   कि  extrude silk  इससे  up to six types of  रेशा   ग्रंथियों   भीतर  their abdomen .
Spider  webs   vary   widely  in size , shape and the amount  of  sticky thread used .
It now  appears  that the spiral orb web  may  be one  of   the   earliest  forms , and  मकड़ियों  that produce tangled cobwebs are more  abundant  and diverse  than   orb-web  spiders .
Spider-like  arachnids  with silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about , but  ये  animals apparently lacked spinnerets  .
True  मकड़ियों  have been  मिला  in  carboniferous  rocks  इससे  , and are  बहुत   समान  to the most primitive  surviving  order , the Mesothelae  .
The main groups  of  modern  मकड़ियों  , Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae , first appeared in the Triassic  काल  , before .
a  herbivorous species , Bagheera kiplingi ,  थी   वर्णित  in 2008 , but  सब  other  ज्ञात   प्रजाति  are  परभक्षी   ,  mostly  preying   on  insects and on other spiders , although a few large species also  लो  birds and lizards .
Spiders use a wide range of strategies  to  capture prey  :   trapping  it in  स्टिकी  webs , lassoing  it  with sticky bolas  ,  mimicking the prey to avoid detection  ,  or running it  bas  .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations , but the active hunters have acute  दृष्टि  , and hunters  of  the  genus  Portia  दिखाएँ  signs of intelligence in their choice  of  tactics and  क्षमता   to  develop  नई  ones .
Spiders  '  guts  हैं   too  narrow to take  solids   ,  and they liquidize their food  by  flooding it with digestive enzymes  और   पीस  it with  the  bases of their pedipalps , as  वे   do  not  have   सच्चा   जबड़े  .
Male spiders identify  themselves  by a variety of complex courtship  संस्कार  to avoid being eaten by  the  females  .
Males  of  most species survive a few matings , limited  मुख्यतः  by their short  जीवन  spans .
महिलाओं  weave silk egg-cases  ,   प्रत्येक   of  which  may  contain hundreds of  अंडे  .
Females of many species care for their young , for example by carrying them around or by sharing food with  उन्हें  .
A  अल्पसंख्यक  of species are social  ,  building  सांप्रदायिक  webs that  may  house  anywhere  from a few  to  50,000  individuals  .
Social behavior  सीमाएँ  from precarious toleration , as in  the  widow spiders ,  to  co-operative hunting and food-sharing .
Although  सबसे  spiders live for at most two years  ,  tarantulas and  अन्य  mygalomorph spiders  can  live up to  25  years in  captivity  .
While the  venom  of a few species is dangerous to humans , scientists are now  researching  the use of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides .
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness , strength and  लोच   कि  is superior to that of  सिंथेटिक  materials  ,   और   मकड़ी  silk genes have been inserted into  स्तनधारियों  and plants  to   देखिए   if   ये  can be  प्रयुक्त  as silk factories  .
As a result of their wide range of  व्यवहार  , spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of  सब्र  , cruelty and creative powers  .
Donna Marie Pinciotti  (  Born February 13 , 1960 )  is  a fictional character and one  of   the  two female leads in the Fox sitcom That '70s Show ,  appearing  in all eight seasons .
portrayed   by  Laura Prepon , Donna is the love  ब्याज  to  eric  Forman .
US county household median income 2009 .
Median US  household  income , 2001-2011
Household income  is  a  माप   commonly  used by the United States government and private institutions .
Each household is measured by  the  income of every  निवासी  over the age  of  15  .
Income includes wages and salaries , unemployment insurance , disability  भुगतान  , child support payments received  ,  regular rental receipts , as well  as  any personal  कारोबार  , investment , or other kinds  of  income  प्राप्त  routinely .
जबकि  inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' )  household  income had  महरूम  increasing almost every year  इससे  1945 to  1999  ,  it   रै  since been  चपटा  and even decreased recently .
U.S. median household income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502  in   2011  .
Extreme poverty in the United States  ,   अर्थ  households  जीना  on less than $  2  per day before government benefits  ,  doubled  इससे  1996 to 1.5  लाख  households in 2011 , including 2.8 million children  .
The residents of the household do not have to be related  to  the  सिर  of the household for their earnings to  be  considered part of the household 's income .
As households tend to  share  a similar  आर्थिक  context , the use of household income remains  among  the most  widely  accepted measures of income .
That  the  size  of  a household is not commonly taken  into  account in such  उपायों  may distort any analysis of fluctuations within or among the household income categories , and may  रेंडर   सीधा  comparisons between  quintiles  difficult or even  नामुमकिन  .
A registered agent , also known as a resident  एजेंट  or statutory agent , in United States business law , is a business or individual designated to receive service of process ( SOP )  जब  a business entity is  a  party in a legal action such as  a  lawsuit or summons  .
The registered agent 's address may also be where the  राज्य  will send the paperwork for the yearly  नवीकरण   of  the business  एंटिटी  's charter .
The  पंजीकृत  agent  लिये  a  कारोबार  entity may be an individual member of the  कम्पनी  ,  or  ( more often  )  a third party , such as the organization 's  वकील  or  a  service company  .
Failure to  properly  maintain a registered agent can  affect  a company negatively .
Office for Emergency  प्रबन्धन  .
दफ्तर  of War Information war poster  1941  - 1945
`` Life , Liberty , and the pursuit of Happiness '' is a  well-known  phrase in the United States Declaration of Independence  .
The phrase is meant  to  exemplify the `` unalienable rights '' with which all human beings are endowed by their creator for their protection of  जिससे  they  संस्थान  governments .
तलवारबाजी   ,  is  typically   विभाजित  into Olympic fencing ,  शास्त्रीय  fencing and historical  तलवारबाजी  , .
The  खेल  of  तलवारबाजी  ( commonly called  ओलम्पिक  fencing or competitive fencing ) is divided into three weapon categories : foil , sabre and épée  .
Classical fencing  उपयोग  the same three weapons , but  approaches  fencing as a martial art .
प्रतिस्पर्धी  Fencing is one  of  five  खेल  which has  महरूम  featured at every one of the modern  ओलम्पिक  Games , the other four being Athletics , Cycling , Swimming  ,  and Gymnastics .
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed muscle of the femur ``  )  , also called  बस  the quadriceps ,  quadriceps  extensor , quads , is a large  मांसपेशी  group that includes the four  प्रचलित  muscles on the front of the thigh .
It is  the  great extensor muscle of the knee , forming a large  मांसल  mass which covers the front and sides of the femur .
The proper Latin plural form of the adjective quadriceps would be quadricipites .
In modern English usage  ,  quadriceps is used  in  both singular and plural .
The singular form quadricep , produced by hypercorrection , is frequently used .
RMS  टाइटैनिक   थी  a British passenger liner that sank  in  the North Atlantic Ocean on 15 April  1912  after  colliding  with  an   हिमशैल   दौरान  her maiden voyage from Southampton  ,  UK to  नई  York City , US .
The sinking of Titanic caused the deaths of  1,502  people in one of the deadliest peacetime maritime disasters in modern history .
The RMS Titanic was the largest ship afloat at the time of her maiden voyage  .
वो   थी  the  दूसरी  of three Olympic  क्लास  ocean liners operated by the White Star Line , and she  थी  built by the Harland and Wolff  डॉकयार्ड   in  Belfast with Thomas Andrews , who perished with the ship , as her naval architect .
On her  maiden  voyage , she carried  2,224  passengers and crew .
अंतर्गत  the command of  एडवर्ड   स्मिथ  ,  उसके  passengers included some of the wealthiest people in the  संसार  ,  as  well as hundreds of emigrants from Great Britain  और  Ireland , Scandinavia and elsewhere throughout Europe seeking a new life in North America .
The ship was designed  to  be the last word in comfort and luxury , with an on-board gymnasium ,  तैराकी  pool , libraries , high-class restaurants and opulent cabins .
She also  था   a  powerful  बेतार  telegraph  provided  for the convenience of  यात्री  as  खूब  as for operational  उपयोग  .
Though she had advanced safety features such as watertight compartments and remotely  activated  watertight doors , she lacked enough lifeboats to accommodate all of those aboard .
Because of outdated  मेरीटाइम  safety regulations , she carried only  पर्याप्त  lifeboats for 1,178 people—slightly more than half of  the   क्रमांक  travelling on the maiden voyage , and one-third her total  यात्री  and crew  क्षमता  .
After leaving Southampton on  10   अप्रैल  1912 , Titanic called at Cherbourg in France and Queenstown ( now Cobh ) in  आयरलैंड   पहले  heading westwards towards New  यॉर्क  .
On 14 April  1912   ,  four  दिनों  into the crossing and about 375 miles (  600  km )  दक्षिण  of Newfoundland ,  वो  hit an iceberg at 11:40 pm ship 's  समय  .
The glancing collision caused  titanics  hull plates to buckle inwards  साथ  her starboard side  और  opened five of her  सोलह  watertight compartments to the sea ; the ship gradually filled with water .
meanwhile  , passengers and some crew members were evacuated  in  lifeboats ,  अनेक  of which were launched only partly loaded .
a  disproportionate number of men  यहूद  left aboard because of a `` women and children first  ``  protocol followed by some of the officers  लदान  the lifeboats  .
By 2:20 AM , she broke apart and foundered , with well over  एक  thousand people still  सवार  .
बस  under two hours after the Titanic foundered ,  the  Cunard liner RMS Carpathia arrived on the  झाँकी  of the sinking  ,  where she brought aboard an estimated 705 survivors  .
the  disaster  थी   greeted  with  विश्वव्यापी  shock  और  outrage at the huge loss  of  life  और  the regulatory  और  operational failures that had led to it .
Public inquiries in Britain and the United  राज्य  led to major improvements  in  maritime safety  .
One of their most  महत्वपूर्ण  legacies was the establishment in 1914  of  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea  (  SOLAS )  ,  which still  governs  maritime safety  आज  .
Additionally , several new wireless  regulations  were passed around the world in an effort to learn  इससे  the  अनेक   missteps  in wireless  संचार  --  -which  could  have  saved many more passengers .
Many of the  survivors   खोया  all of their money and possessions and  यहूद  left destitute  ;  many families ,  विशेषकर  those  of  crew members from  southampton   ,  lost their primary bread-winners  .
They were helped by an outpouring of public sympathy  और  charitable donations  .
Some of the male survivors were accused of cowardice for leaving the ship while people were  स्टिल  on  फलक  ; the White Star Line 's chairman , J. Bruce Ismay , faced social ostracism for the rest of his  जीवन  .
The wreck of the  टाइटैनिक  remains  on  the  समुद्रतल  , split in two and gradually disintegrating at a depth of  .
Since its discovery in 1985 ,  हज़ारों  of artefacts have  महरूम  recovered and  put  on  प्रदर्शक  at museums  around   the  world .
Titanic  रै   become  one of the  सबसे  famous ships in history  ,   उसके  memory kept alive by numerous  किताबे  ,  लोक  songs , films , exhibits , and  memorials  .
The  इंसान  leg is the  संपूर्ण  lower extremity or limb of the human body , including the  पैर  , thigh and even the hip or  gluteal  region ;  however  ,  the  precise definition in  इंसान  anatomy refers only to the section  of   the  lower limb extending  इससे  the  घुटना  to  the   टखने   .
Legs are used for  खड़ा  ,  चलना  , jumping  ,  running ,  kicking  , and similar  क्रियाएँ  , and constitute a significant  portion  of a person  's  mass .
This article is about the demographic features of  the  population of  तुर्कों  , including population density , ethnicity , education level , health of the populace ,  आर्थिक  status , religious affiliations  और   अन्य  aspects of the population  .
As of 2010 , the population of Turkey is  अनुमानित  to  be  73.7 million  साथ  a growth rate of 1.21 %  प्रति  annum ( 2009 figure ) .
the  population is relatively young with  26.6  % falling in the  0-14  age bracket .
According to the OECD/World Bank population statistics in  तुर्कों  the population  विकास  from 1990 to 2008 was 16 million or 29  %  .
1998  BMW 750iL
Buick Roadmaster
A full-size car  is  a  विपणन   पद  used in North America for an automobile larger  than  a mid-size car .
in  the United States ,  the   epa  uses the term `` large car  ''   to   denote   full-size  cars .
Joel Grey ( born April  11  , 1932 ) is an American stage and  स्क्रीन  actor ,  सिंगर  , and dancer , known for  उसके  role  as  the  निपुण  of Ceremonies in both  the  stage and film adaptation of  the  Kander & Ebb musical Cabaret  .
He has won the  अकादमी  Award ,  टोनी  Award and Golden Globe  पुरस्कार  .
He also  originated  the role of George  M.   cohan  in the musical George  m  !
in 1973 , the Wizard in the  musical  Wicked .
Grey also starred in  the  Broadway revivals of  anything  Goes as  moonface  Martin , and Chicago as  अमोस  Hart .
James Madison , Jr. ( March  16  , 1751 ( O.S  .  March 5 ) – June 28  ,   1836  ) was  an  American statesman and political theorist , the fourth President of  the  United States (  1809–1817  ) .
He is hailed as the “Father  of  the Constitution” for being  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल  in  the  drafting  of  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  Constitution and  as  the key  चैंपियन   और  author of the United States Bill  of  Rights .
He served as a politician much of his adult life .
After  the   संविधान  had  महरूम  drafted  ,   मैडिसन  became one of the leaders in the movement to ratify it .
His collaboration with Alexander Hamilton and  जॉन   jay  produced the  federalist  Papers (  1788   )  .
Circulated  तभी  in New York at the time , they would later be considered  among  the  सबसे  important  polemics   in   support  of the Constitution .
He was also a delegate  to  the Virginia  संवैधानिक  ratifying convention  ,  and  थी  instrumental to the successful ratification effort  in  Virginia .
Like most of his contemporaries , Madison  बदला  his political views during  उसके   जीवन   .
During the drafting and ratification  of  the constitution , he favored a strong national government , though later he  grew   to   एहसान  stronger state  सरकारें  ,  पहले  settling between the  दो   extremes  late in his life .
In 1789 , Madison became a leader in the new House of Representatives ,  drafting  many  मौलिक  laws  .
He is notable for  drafting  the first ten  amendments  to the Constitution , and thus is known as the `` Father of  the  Bill of  अधिकारों  `` .
मैडिसन  worked closely with President George Washington to organize  the  new federal government .
तोड़कर  with Hamilton and what became the Federalist Party in  1791   ,   मैडिसन   और  Thomas Jefferson  व्यवस्थित   कया  they called the Republican Party ( later called by historians the Democratic-Republican  पार्टी  )
As Jefferson’s Secretary of State ( 1801–1809 ) , Madison supervised the Louisiana Purchase , which doubled  the  nation’s size .
After his election to  the  presidency ,  he   presided  over renewed prosperity for  अनेक  years .
As president  (  1809–17 ) , after the failure of diplomatic protests and a trade embargo against  ग्रेट  Britain , he  led   the  nation into the  युद्ध  of 1812 .
He was responding to British encroachments on American honor  और   अधिकारों  ;  in  addition , he wanted to end the influence of the British among their Indian allies , whose  प्रतिरोध   अवरोधित   संयुक्त   राज्य  settlement in the Midwest around  the  Great Lakes .
Madison found the war  to  be an administrative  दुःस्वप्न  ,  as  the United States  था  neither a strong army nor financial system ; as a result , he  afterward  supported a stronger national government and a  दमदार  military , as well as the national bank , which he had long  opposed  .
Like other Virginia  कूटनीतिज्ञों  in the slave society , he was  a   slaveholder  who inherited his  वृक्षारोपण  known as  montpelier  , and owned hundreds of  स्लेव  during his lifetime to cultivate tobacco and other  फसलों   .
Madison supported the  three-fifths  compromise that allowed three-fifths of the  enumerated  population of slaves  to  be counted  लिये  representation  .
`` Roman 's Revenge  ''  is a song performed by  अमरीकी   rapper  Nicki Minaj from her debut  स्टुडियो  album Pink Friday .
It was written  by  Minaj and rapper Eminem , who is also featured  in  the song , and was produced by Swizz Beatz .
It  थी  released exclusively on  अक्तूबर   30  , 2010 through  the  US iTunes  स्टोर   ,  as a promotional release  preceding   the  album 's  रिलीज  .
The song initiated a  feud  between Lil ' Kim and Minaj ,  जहाँ  many people felt  the   सोंग   थी  directed  at   लील  ' Kim and regarded around her feelings  towards  Minaj 's rise to  कीर्ति   .
The  सोंग  references Minaj 's alter-ego  ,  Roman Zolanski , and Eminem 's alter-ego ,  पतला  Shady  .
The song garnered very positive reviews from critics  ,  most of which  praised  the  सोंग  as a  stand-out  track on the album .
An official remix featuring  minaj   's  mentor ,  लील  Wayne ,  थी  released to the US iTunes Store on January 19  ,  2011 .
The instrumental was  प्रयुक्त   in  the  सोंग  'Firing  स्क्वाड  ' by Horseshoe G.A.N.G .
हाइड्रोलिक  fluid being poured  .
Hydraulic fluids , also called hydraulic liquids  ,  are the medium by  जिससे  power is transferred in hydraulic machinery .
Common hydraulic  fluids  are based on mineral  आयल  or water .
Examples  of  equipment  कि  might use hydraulic fluids include excavators and backhoes ,  हाइड्रोलिक  brakes , power  परिचालन  systems , transmissions , garbage  ट्रक  , aircraft flight control systems , lifts  ,  and industrial machinery .
Hydraulic systems like the ones mentioned above  होगा  work most  efficiently   if   the  hydraulic fluid  प्रयुक्त  has no compressibility
Mahindra Tractor
Mahindra Tractors , the farm equipment division  of  Mahindra  &   महिंद्रा  , builds and sources tractors  कि   हैं  sold  विश्वव्यापी  across six continents .
Mahindra is also  among  the top three tractor manufacturers in the  संसार  .
Mahindra has a  विशाल  consumer base in India , China and America and  a  growing base  in   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
The  कम्पनी   builds  more tractors in India  than  any other manufacturer , and has the capacity to build  150,000  tractors  a  year  .
In  1963  , M & M formed a joint venture with International Harvester to manufacture  tractors  carrying the Mahindra  nameplate  for the Indian market .
हथियारबंद  with  अभियान्त्रिकी   ,  tooling and manufacturing know-how gained from this  संबंध   ,   m  &  m  developed its  पहला  tractor , the B-275 .
Mahindra Tractors with  बिक्री  of nearly 85,000 units annually is one of the largest  ट्रैक्टर   कंपनियाँ  in  the   संसार  , and is number one in sales in India  -   the  largest tractor  मार्केट  in the world .
To expand into the growing tractor market in China  ,  Mahindra acquired  बहुमत  stake in Jiangling .
To raise awareness about Mahindra  in  the US  ,  Mahindra  यूएसए  announced its new sponsorship in the NASCAR Nationwide Series with  r3  Motorsports , which is participating  साथ  a # 23 Mahindra Tractors Chevrolet .
The  car  will  be  driven by Robert Richardson , Jr. Mahindra USA , Inc. announced a 17-race primary and 18-race associate sponsorship  लिये  the  2009  NASCAR  देशभर   श्रेणी  .
With this sponsorship ,  महिंद्रा  was  the  first Indian  कम्पनी  to sponsor  a  car  in  NASCAR .
in  2008  ,  Mahindra was a sponsor of the  मैकडोनाल्ड  Motorsports team which  भागा  the # 81  car  in the NASCAR  देशभर  Series .
The POWER6  is  a microprocessor developed by  ibm  that  implemented  the Power ISA  v.2.03  .
जब  it  became   उपलब्धियाँ  in systems in  2007  ,  it   succeeded   the  POWER5+ as IBM 's flagship  शक्ति   माइक्रोप्रोसेसर  .
It  is  part  of  the eCLipz project ,  कहा   to  have a goal of  converging  IBM 's server hardware where  व्यावहारिक  (  hence  ``  ipz  '' in the  एक्रोनिम  : iSeries , pSeries  ,  and  zseries   )   .
the  American middle class is a social class in  the  United States .
While the concept is typically ambiguous  in  popular  राय   और  common language use , contemporary social scientists have put forward several , more or less congruent , theories on  the  American  मध्य   क्लास  .
Depending on class model  प्रयुक्त  ,  the  middle class may constitute anywhere from 25 %  to   66  % of households .
One of the  पहला   प्रमुख  studies of the middle class in America was  श्वेत  Collar  :  The American Middle Classes , published in 1951 by sociologist C. Wright Wright_Mills Mills Wright_Mills .
Later  sociologists  such as Dennis Gilbert  of  Hamilton  कॉलेज  commonly  divide  the middle class into two sub-groups .
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20  %  of  households  is the upper  or  professional  मध्य   क्लास  consisting  of  highly educated ,  वेतनभोगी  professionals  और  managers .
Constituting  roughly   एक  third of households  is  the lower middle  क्लास  consisting mostly of semi-professionals , skilled craftsmen  और   lower-level  management .
middle-class   व्यक्तियों  commonly have a comfortable standard  of  living  ,   significant  economic security ,  considerable  work autonomy and  rely  on their expertise to sustain themselves .
Members of the middle  क्लास  belong to diverse groups which overlap with each other .
Overall , middle-class persons  ,  especially upper-middle-class individuals , are characterized by conceptualizing , creating and consulting  .
Thus , college education  is   एक  of the main indicators of middle-class status .
largely  attributed to the nature of middle-class occupations ,  मध्य  class values tend to emphasize independence , adherence to intrinsic standards , valuing innovation  और  respecting  non-conformity   .
Politically more  क्रियाशील  than  अन्य  demographics , college  शिक्षित  middle class professionals are split  between  the two  प्रमुख  parties .
आय   varies   considerably  from near the national median to well in excess of $ 100,000 .
Household income figures , however , do not always  प्रतिबिंबित  class  औकात   और  standard of living  ,  as they are  largely  influenced  by  the number of income  earners   और  fail to recognize household size .
It is therefore  संभावित  for  a  large  ,  dual-earner  ,   निम्नतर   मध्य   क्लास  household to out-earn a small  ,  one-earner , upper middle class household .
the  middle  वर्ग  are very influential , as they  encompass  the majority of voters , writers , teachers  ,  journalists , and  सम्पादक  .
Most  societal  trends in  the   us  originate within the middle classes .
The following is a list of Saturday  रात्रि   सजीव  cast members , past and present  .
The cast members of Saturday Night  सजीव  were  originally   referred  to as the  ``  Not Ready For Prime Time Players ''  .
The  असली  cast  (  l to r  )  : Laraine Newman , John  belushi  , Jane Curtin , Gilda  radner  , Dan  aykroyd  , Garrett Morris  ,  and Chevy Chase
Ruins  इससे   the   1906  San  फ्रांसिस्को  earthquake  ,   remembered  as one of  the  worst natural disasters in United  राज्य  history
a  disaster is a  प्राकृतिक  or man-made ( or technological ) hazard resulting in an  इवेंट  of substantial extent causing significant physical damage or destruction ,  घाटा  of life , or drastic change  to  the environment .
A disaster can  be  ostensively defined as any  tragic   इवेंट  stemming from events such as earthquakes ,  floods  , catastrophic accidents ,  फ़ायर  ,  or  explosions .
It is a phenomenon that can cause damage to  जीवन   और  property  और   नष्ट   the  economic , social and cultural life of people .
In contemporary academia , disasters are seen as the consequence  of  inappropriately managed  रिस्क  .
ये  risks  हैं   the  product of a combination of both hazard/s and vulnerability .
जोखिमों  that strike in areas with low vulnerability will never become disasters , as is the case in uninhabited regions .
विकासशील  countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 percent of all  मौतों  caused by disasters occur  in   विकासशील  countries  ,   और   नुकसान  due to natural disasters are  20   टाइम्स  greater  (  as a  प्रतिशत  of GDP )  in  developing  देशों   than  in industrialized countries .
In computing , booting (  भी  known as booting  up  ) is the initial set of operations that a  कंप्यूटर  system  performs  when electrical power to the CPU is switched on .
the  process begins when a  कंप्यूटर  is  turned   on  for the first  समय   or   is  re-energized after being turned off , and ends  जब   the  computer  is   तैयार  to perform its normal operations .
On  आधुनिक  general purpose  कंप्यूटर   ,   इस  can take  tens  of  सेकेंड  and typically involves performing a power-on self-test , locating and initializing peripheral devices , and  तब   ढूंढना  ,  लदान   और  starting an operating system  .
Many computer systems also allow these operations to  be  initiated by a software command without cycling  शक्ति  , in  कया   is  known  as  a  नरम  reboot ,  हालांकि   कुछ  of  the   आरंभिक  operations might be  छोड़ा  on a soft reboot .
A boot loader  is  a computer program  कि  loads the main operating system or  runtime   पर्यावरण  for the computer after  पूर्णता   of  the  self-tests  .
The computer term boot is short  लिये  bootstrap or  बूटस्ट्रैप  load and derives from the  phrase  to pull oneself up by  एक  's bootstraps  .
The  उपयोग  calls attention to  the  requirement that , if most software is loaded onto a computer by other  तन्त्र  already running on the computer ,  कुछ  mechanism  जरूर  exist to load initial software onto the computer  .
Early  कंप्यूटर  used a variety of  ad-hoc  methods to get a small program into memory to solve this problem .
The invention of  एकीकृत  circuit  read-only  memory ( ROM ) of various types solved this paradox by  allowing  computers to be shipped with a start  up  program  कि  could not  be   erased  .
Growth in the capacity of ROM  रै  allowed  कभी  more elaborate  प्रारंभ  up procedures to be implemented .
On  सामान्य  purpose  कंप्यूटर   ,  the boot process begins  साथ  the execution of  an  initial program stored in  बूट  ROMs  or   पढ़ा  in another  फ़ैशन  .
In some older  कंप्यूटर  , the initial program might have been the application to  चलाएं  , if no  ऑपरेटिंग  system was used , or the  ऑपरेटिंग  system .
In other computers , the initial program is a boot  लोडर  that may then load into random-access memory ( RAM ) , from nonvolatile secondary storage ( such as a hard disk drive ) or , in some older computers , from a  मीडियम  such as punched cards , punched tape , or magnetic  टेप  in older computers , the binary code of an operating  प्रणाली  or runtime  पर्यावरण  and then execute it .
if  the boot loader is limited  in  its size and capabilities  ,  it may , instead , load a larger and more capable secondary  बूट  loader , which would  तब  load the operating system  or   runtime  environment .
Some embedded  प्रणालियों   do  not require  a  noticeable boot sequence to begin functioning and when  turned  on  may  simply run  operational  programs that are stored in ROM .
Firebird is an open source SQL relational database management system that runs on Linux , Windows , and a variety of Unix .
The database forked from Borland 's open  सोर्स  edition of InterBase in 2000 , but since Firebird 1.5 the  कोड   रै  been largely rewritten .
Outsourcing is the contracting out of an internal business process to a third-party  संगठन  .
The practice of contracting a business process out to  a  third party rather than  स्टॉफ  it internally is common in the modern economy .
The term `` outsourcing '' became popular in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  near the turn of the 21st century .
Outsourcing  sometimes  involves transferring employees and assets  इससे   एक  firm to another , but not always .
the  definition of outsourcing includes  दोनो  foreign and domestic contracting , and  sometimes   शामिल  offshoring  ,  which means  relocating  a  कारोबार  function to another  देश   .
वित्तीय  savings from lower international labor  दरों  is a big motivation for outsourcing/offshoring .
The opposite of outsourcing is called insourcing , which  entails  bringing processes handled by third-party  firms  in-house , and is sometimes accomplished  via   लंबवत  integration .
However , a business can provide a  अनुबंध  service  to  another business  बगैर   necessarily  insourcing that business process .
इंसान   immunodeficiency   वायरस  (  hiv  ) is a lentivirus (  धीरे  replicating retrovirus ) that causes  acquired  immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS  )  , a  कंडीशन  in humans in which progressive failure  of   the   प्रतिरक्षा  system allows life-threatening opportunistic  infections  and cancers to thrive .
संक्रमण  with HIV occurs by  the  transfer of  रक्त  , semen , vaginal  द्रव  , pre-ejaculate , or breast milk .
Within these bodily fluids , HIV is present as both free virus particles and virus  भीतर   संक्रमित  immune cells .
HIV  infects   vital  cells in the  इंसान  immune system such as helper  t  cells ( specifically CD4 + T  कोशिकाएं   )  , macrophages , and dendritic  कोशिकाएं  .
HIV infection  लीड  to low levels of CD4+ T cells through a number of mechanisms including  :  apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells  ,  direct viral killing of infected cells , and  हत्या  of  संक्रमित  CD4+ T  कोशिकाएं  by CD8 cytotoxic lymphocytes that  recognize  infected  कोशिकाएं  .
When CD4+ T cell numbers decline below a  नाजुक  level , cell-mediated immunity is lost ,  और   the  body becomes progressively more susceptible to opportunistic  infections  .
The firepole in a fire station in Toronto
A fireman 's pole  (  also  पुकारा  a sliding  ध्रुव  or firepole ) is a wooden pole or a metal tube or pipe installed between  floors   in  fire stations , allowing firefighters responding to  an  alarm to  जल्दी  descend  to  the ground  मंजिल   तेज़  than by using a  मानक  staircase .
The device was invented in the  1870s  by David Kenyon  ,  in Chicago , Illinois , although  it  is often incorrectly  credited   to  the Boston Fire Department .
Mary Poppins is the title character  of  a series of children  's  books written  by   P.  L. Travers .
Throughout the Mary  poppins  series , which lasted  इससे  1934 to 1988  ,  Mary  shepard  was the  इलस्ट्रेटर  and  acted  as a second author  .
The books centre  on  a magical English nanny , Mary Poppins .
She is blown by the  ईस्ट  wind to  क्रमांक  Seventeen  चेरी  Tree Lane , London , and into the Banks ' household to care for their children  .
Encounters with  चिमनी  sweeps , shopkeepers and various  adventures  follow until  मरियम  Poppins abruptly leaves , i.e. , `` pops-out '' .
The adventures take place over a total of eight books .
however  , only  the  first three books feature  मरियम  Poppins  arriving  and leaving .
The later five books recount previously  unrecorded   adventures  from her original three  विज़िट   .
As P.  L.  Travers explains  in  her introduction  to   मरियम   poppins   in  the Park , `` She can not forever arrive  और  depart .  ''
the  books were adapted  in  1964  into   a  musical  डिज़्नी   फिल्मी  starring Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke .
In 2004 , Disney Theatrical produced a stage musical adaptation in the West End theatre .
the  stage musical was transferred to Broadway  in  2006 where it  भागा  until its closing on March 3 , 2013 .
It has been highly successful , as was the 1964 film  .
The Last Song is a  2010  American coming of age teen romantic drama film developed alongside  निकोलस  Sparks  '  novel  by  the same name  .
The film was directed  by  Julie Anne  रॉबिन्सन  in her  विशेषता  film directorial  डेब्यू   और  co-written  by   स्पार्क्स   और  Jeff Van  wie  .
the  Last Song  सितारों   miley  Cyrus , Liam Hemsworth ,  और   ग्रेग  Kinnear  और  follows  a  troubled teenager as she reconnects  साथ  her estranged  पिता  and falls in love during a summer in a quiet Southern United States beach town .
The film is distributed  by  Touchstone Pictures .
स्पार्क्स  was  approached  to write both  the  film 's screenplay  और   the  novel .
Sparks completed the  पटकथा  in January 2009 , prior to the completion of the novel ,  बनाना  The Last  सोंग  his  पहला  script  to  be optioned for film .
The setting , originally in North  कैरोलिना  like the novel , moved to Georgia  बाद  the states had campaigned for months to host production .
Upon  शुरूआत  production  in   tybee  Island , Georgia and nearby Savannah  ,  The Last Song  became  the  पहला  movie to be  दोनो  shot and  नियत  in Tybee Island .
Filming  lasted  from June 15 to  अगस्त  18 , 2009 with  much  of it occurring  on  the island 's beach and pier .
The Last Song was originally  अनुसूचित  for  चौड़ी  release on  जनवरी  8 , 2010 , but  थी  postponed to  कूच  31  ,  2010 .
Written  simlish
Simlish  is  a fictional language featured in EA Games ' Sim series of games .
it  debuted in  simcopter  ,  और  has  महरूम  especially prominent in The Sims , The  सीम  2 and The Sims  3   .
the   सीम  development team created  the  unique Simlish language by  experimenting  with fractured Ukrainian , French , Latin , Finnish ,  अंग्रेज़ी  , Fijian , Cebuano , and Tagalog .
Simlish can also be  सुना  in SimCity 4  ,   simcity  Societies and SimCity 2013 , but far less frequently .
Civilized Creatures in Spore  can  also  be  taught to  बोलो   simlish  .
It is also featured to an extent in Firaxis Games  '  Sid Meier  's  SimGolf .
Designer Will Wright was conscious of the need for dialogue in the game , but thought  कि  using a real  भाषा  would  मेक  it sound  too   दोहराए  and would also be too costly  to  hire translators for world languages .
Initially , inspired by the Native  अमरीकी  code talkers of World War II , Sims creator Will  राइट  and language expert Marc Gimbel  सुझाया  experimenting with the Navajo language to create Simlish .
However ,  वे  ultimately  decided  that Simlish worked  बेहतरीन  as a ``  भाषा  '' made  up  of gibberish words  कि  could  n't   be  translated , so that its meaning  होता  be  बाएँ   खोलें  to the imagination  of  the player .
Wright later commented that  using   ``  nonsense language '' turned out to  be  the  सही  development choice , as people were capable of imagining it more realistically than a computer could simulate a real one  .
The actual sound of Simlish was created improvisationally by voice actors Stephen Kearin and Gerri  lawlor  .
An example of Ultrasonic  परीक्षण  ( UT )  on  blade roots of a V2500 IAE aircraft engine .
Step 1 :  the   ut  probe is placed on the  रूट  of  the  blades  to  be inspected with  the  help of  a  special borescope  औजार  ( video probe  )  .
Step 2 : Instrument settings are input .
Step 3 : The probe is scanned over the  ब्लेड   रूट  .
in   इस   मामला  , an indication  (  peak  in   the  data  )  through the  रेड  line ( or gate ) indicates  a  good blade ; an  indication  to the left of that range indicates a crack .
Principle of  अल्ट्रासोनिक  testing .
बाएँ   :   a  probe sends a sound wave  into  a test material .
There are two  indications  , one from the  आरंभिक  pulse  of  the  जांच   ,   और  the second  due  to the back wall echo .
RIGHT :  a   defect  creates a  तीसरा  indication and simultaneously reduces the amplitude of the back wall indication  .
The depth of the defect is determined by the ratio D/E
In  अल्ट्रासोनिक  testing ( UT ) , very short ultrasonic pulse-waves with  बीच  frequencies  ranging  from 0.1-15 MHz and occasionally  up  to  50  MHz are launched  into   सामग्री  to detect internal flaws  or  to characterize materials .
a  common example is ultrasonic  मोटाई   मापन  , which tests the thickness of the test object , for  उदाहरण  , to monitor pipework corrosion  .
Ultrasonic testing is often performed on steel and other metals  और   alloys  , though it can also  be  used on concrete  ,  wood and composites , albeit with less resolution .
It is a form of non-destructive testing used in  अनेक  industries including  aerospace  , automotive and other transportation sectors .
The  vas  deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ) , also called ductus deferens ( Latin : `` carrying-away vessel '' ;  बहुवचन   :  ductus deferentes  )  , is part  of   the   पुरूष  anatomy  of  many vertebrates ; they  हस्तांतरण  sperm from the epididymis in anticipation  of  ejaculation .
Vascular ischemia of the toes with characteristic cyanosis .
in   आयुर्विज्ञान  ,  ischemia  , also spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia ,  (  ; from Greek language ισχαιμία , ischaimía ;  isch-  root denoting a restriction or  thinning  or to make or grow thin/lean  ,  haema blood  )  is  a  restriction in blood supply to tissues , causing a shortage of oxygen and glucose needed for cellular metabolism (  to  keep tissue  जिंदा   )  .
Ischemia is generally caused by problems with blood vessels  ,  with resultant damage to or dysfunction  of  tissue .
It  भी   अर्थात्  local anemia in  a  given part of a  देह  sometimes resulting from congestion ( such  as  vasoconstriction , thrombosis or embolism  )  .
Down syndrome ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome ,  भी  known as trisomy  21  , is a genetic disorder  caused   by  the presence of  सब  or part  of   a  third copy of  chromosome   21  .
Down syndrome  is  the most common chromosome abnormality  in   इंसानो  .
It is typically associated with  a   विलंब  in cognitive ability ( mental retardation , or  mr  ) and  शारीरिक  growth , and a particular  नियत  of  फेशियल   विशेषताएँ  .
the  average IQ of young  वयस्कों  with Down  सिंड्रोम  is around 50 , whereas young adults  बगैर  the condition typically have an IQ of 100 .
( MR has historically  महरूम   पारिभाषित  as  an   iq  below 70 . )
A large  proportion  of  individuals  with Down syndrome have a severe degree of intellectual disability .
Down syndrome  is  named after John Langdon Down , the British physician  जो  described the syndrome in  1866  .
The condition was clinically  वर्णित  earlier  by  Jean  etienne  Dominique Esquirol  in  1838 and Edouard Seguin in 1844 .
Down syndrome was identified as a chromosome 21 trisomy  by  Dr. Jérôme Lejeune in 1959 .
Down syndrome can be identified in  a  baby at  जनम  or before  जनम  by prenatal screening .
Pregnancies  साथ  this diagnosis are  प्रायः   terminated  .
The CDC estimates that  परिचय  one  of   प्रत्येक  691 babies born in the United States each  साल  is born with  bas   सिंड्रोम  .
Many children with Down syndrome are educated in regular  स्कूल   वर्ग   जबकि  others require specialised educational facilities .
Some children graduate from high  स्कूल  , and ,  in  the US , there  हैं  increasing opportunities for participating in post-secondary  शिक्षा  .
शिक्षा  and proper  परवाह   रै  been  दिखाया  to improve quality  of  life significantly .
Many adults with Down Syndrome are able to work  at  paid employment in the community  ,  while others require a more sheltered work environment  .
Hot flashes ( also  ज्ञात  as hot  flushes   ,  or night sweats if they happen at night ) are a symptom  जिससे  may have several  अन्य  causes , but  जिससे   is  often caused by the changing hormone levels  कि   हैं  characteristic  of   रजोनिवृत्ति  .
The Servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 (  p.l  .  78-346  , 58  स्टेट   .  284m ) , known informally  as  the G.I .  विधेयक  , was a law that provided a range of  लाभ  for returning  संसार   युद्ध  II veterans ( commonly referred  to  as G.I.s ) .
लाभ  included low-cost mortgages , low-interest loans to  प्रारंभ  a business or farm , cash  भुगतान  of tuition and  जीना  expenses  to  attend college , high school or vocational education , as  खूब   as   एक  year of  बेरोजगारी  compensation  .
It was  उपलब्धियाँ  to every veteran who had been on active duty  दौरान  the war years for at least ninety days and had not been dishonorably discharged ;  कॉम्बैट  was not required .
By the end  of  the program in 1956  ,  roughly 2.2 million veterans had used the G.I . Bill education  लाभ  in order to  attend  colleges or universities , and an additional 6.6  लाख  used these benefits for some kind of training  कार्यक्रम  .
Since  the  original 1944 law  ,  the term has  आइये  to include other  दिग्गज  benefit  कार्यक्रम  created to assist veterans of subsequent wars as well  as  peacetime service  .
Historians and economists  consider  the G.I . Bill  a  major  राजनैतिक  success—especially in  कंट्रास्ट  to the treatments of World  युद्ध  I veterans—and a major  योगदान   to  America 's stock  of   इंसान   पूंजी  that sped  long-term  economic growth .
The Watergate  कांड  was a political scandal that occurred in the United States in the  1970s  as a result of the June 17 , 1972 break-in at the Democratic National Committee  मुख्यालय  at  the  Watergate  दफ्तर  complex  in  Washington ,  d.C.  , and the Nixon administration 's attempted  cover-up  of its involvement .
The scandal  आखिरकार  led to the  इस्तीफा   of  Richard Nixon ,  the  President of  the  United States ,  on  August  9  , 1974 — the only resignation  of  a U.S. President .
The scandal  भी   resulted   in  the indictment , trial , conviction  ,  and incarceration of forty-three persons  ,  dozens of whom were Nixon 's top  प्रशासन  officials .
The affair  began  with the arrest of five men for breaking and entering into the Democratic National Committee  (  DNC ) headquarters at  the   वाटरगेट  complex on June 17 , 1972  .
The Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) connected cash  मिला  on the burglars to a slush fund used by  the  Committee for the Re-Election of the President , the official organization of Nixon 's campaign  .
In  जुलाई   1973  , as evidence mounted against the president 's  स्टाफ  , including  गवाही  provided  by   पूर्व  staff members in an investigation conducted  by  the Senate Watergate Committee ,  it  was revealed that President Nixon  था  a tape-recording system in his offices  और  he had recorded many conversations .
Recordings  इससे  these  टेपों  implicated the president  ,   revealing  he had  attempted   to   कवर  up  the  questionable ( and  illegal  ) goings-on that had taken  प्लेस  during his administration , both before and after the  break-in  .
बाद  a  protracted  series of bitter  अदालत  battles ,  the  U.S. Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the president had  to   हाथ  over the tapes to government investigators ; he ultimately  complied  .
Facing near-certain impeachment in the House of Representatives and a strong possibility of  a  conviction in the Senate  ,  Nixon  resigned  the presidency on August 9 , 1974  .
His successor , Gerald Ford , then issued a  pardon   to   उसे  .
Elizabeth Imogene Webber  (  formerly  lansing  and  स्पेंसर  ) is a fictional character on the ABC  दिन  soap  ओपेरा  General  हॉस्पिटल  .
Elizabeth is the  पोती  of Dr. Steve Hardy ( John Beradino  )  , one of the originating core  वर्ण  of the series .
Rebecca  herbst  originated the character on August  1  , 1997 and has been  the  only contract actress to play the  भूमिका  .
Elizabeth is  भाग  of  दो  supercouple pairings , Lucky  स्पेंसर  and Elizabeth Webber  और  Jason Morgan and  एलिज़ाबेथ  Webber .
The  संयुक्त  States presidency of  रोनाल्ड  Reagan , also  ज्ञात  as the Reagan administration ,  थी   a   रिपब्लिकन  administration headed by  रोनाल्ड   reagan  from January  20  ,  1981  ,  to  January  20  , 1989 .
Domestically  ,  the administration favored reducing government programs and introduced the largest across-the-board tax cuts in  अमरीकी  history .
The economic  नीतियों  enacted in 1981 ,  ज्ञात  as `` Reaganomics  ``  , were an example of supply-side economics .
reagan  aimed to encourage entrepreneurship and limit the  विकास  of  सोशल   बिता   ,  as well as the reduction of  विनियमन  and inflation .
Economic growth saw a strong recovery  in  the 1980s  ,  helping Reagan  to  win a  भूस्खलन  re-election .
The national  कर्ज़  increased significantly , however .
Regarding foreign policy ,  the  administration was steadfastly anti-communist , calling the  सोवियत  Union  an  `` evil  साम्राज्य  `` and ending 1970s détente .
reagan  accelerated the  विशाल  buildup of the military started by  उसके  predecessor ,  सहित  an  आक्रमण  of  हरा  , the  पहला  major overseas action by  u.S.  troops since the  समाप्त  of the Vietnam War .
The `` Reagan  doctrine  `` controversially granted aid  to  paramilitary forces seeking to overthrow communist governments , particularly in war-torn Central America and Afghanistan .
Reagan also promoted new technologies such as missile  रक्षा  systems in order  to  confront the Soviets and  उनके   allies  .
In diplomacy ,  reagan   forged   a  strong alliance  साथ  UK  प्रधान  Minister Margaret Thatcher ,  और  he met  साथ  Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev four times  ,  aiming to shrink the superpowers  '  nuclear arsenals .
Reagan 's presidency has been termed the `` Reagan Revolution ''  ,   or  the Age  of  Reagan  in  recognition of the political realignment  दोनो  within and beyond the U.S.  in  favor of his  ब्रांड  of conservatism and his faith in free  बाज़ार  .
The Reagan administration worked toward the collapse of Soviet  साम्यवादी   ,  and it did collapse just  as  he  बाएँ  office .
Victory in the  ठंडा  War led to a  unipolar  world with the U.S.  as  the world  's  sole superpower  .
While  the  damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed  अनेक   reagan   aides  during  उसके  second term  ,  Reagan himself  बाएँ   दफ्तर  with a 63 percent approval  दरजा  , one  of  the higher approval ratings  of  departing presidents .
After years of unstinting praise  इससे  the right , and unrelenting criticism from  the  left , historian  दाउद  Henry finds that by  2009  a consensus had  उभरा  among scholars that  reagan  revived conservatism and turned the nation to the  सही   by  demonstrating  a  `` pragmatic conservatism ''  कि  promoted  विचारधारा  within the constraints imposed  by  the divided  राजनैतिक  system .
Furthermore , says  हेनरी  , the consensus  viewpoint  agrees that he revived faith  in  the presidency  और  American self-confidence , and  contributed   critically  to ending the Cold War  .
Crude death  रेट  by country ( 2006 ) .
Mortality rate is a measure of the  क्रमांक  of deaths (  in  general , or due to a specific cause ) in a population  .
scaled  to the size of that population , per unit of time .
Mortality  रेट  is  typically  expressed  in  units of deaths per 1000 individuals per  साल  ; thus , a mortality rate of 9.5 ( out of 1000 ) in a population of 1,000 would mean  9.5   मौतों  per year in that entire  जनसांख्यिकी  , or 0.95 % out of the  कुल  .
It is distinct from morbidity rate , which refers  to  the  क्रमांक  of individuals in poor health during a given time period ( the prevalence rate ) or the  क्रमांक  of  newly  appearing cases of the disease per unit  of  time ( incidence  रेट  ) .
the  term `` mortality  ``  is also sometimes inappropriately  प्रयुक्त  to  refer  to the  क्रमांक   of  deaths  among   a  set of diagnosed hospital cases for a disease or  चोट  , rather than for the general  जनसांख्यिकी  of a  देश  or ethnic  समूह  .
This  बीमारी  mortality statistic is more precisely referred to as `` case fatality rate `` ( CFR ) .
One  distinguishes:
The  crude  death  रेट  , the total number of deaths per year per 1000 people .
the  crude death rate for the whole world  is  about  8.37  per  1000  per year according to the current CIA  संसार  Factbook .
The perinatal mortality rate , the sum  of   neonatal   मौतों  and fetal deaths ( stillbirths ) per 1000 births  .
The maternal  मृत्यु  ratio , the number of  मातृ  deaths per 100,000 live births  in  same  समय  period  .
The maternal mortality rate , the number of  मातृ  deaths  प्रति  1,000 women of reproductive age in the  जनसांख्यिकी   (  generally defined as 15–44 years of age ) .
the  infant mortality rate  ,  the number of deaths of  children  less than 1 year old per  1000  live  births   .
The child mortality rate , the number of  मौतों  of children less than  5  years old per 1000  सजीव  births .
the  standardised mortality ratio ( SMR )  -  This represents a proportional comparison to the numbers of deaths that would have  महरूम  expected if the  जनसांख्यिकी  had been of a standard composition in  शर्तें   of  age , gender , etc .
The age-specific  मृत्यु  rate (  asmr  ) - This refers to the  कुल  number  of  deaths per year per 1000 people of a  दिए  age ( e.g  .  age 62  पिछला  birthday ) .
In  लिहाज़  to the or failure of medical treatment  or  procedures , one would also  distinguish:
the  early mortality rate , the total number of  मौतों  in the early stages of an ongoing treatment , or in the period  तत्काल  following an treatment .
The late mortality rate , the total number of  मौतों  in the late stages  of  an ongoing treatment  ,  or  a   significant  length of time after an acute treatment .
Note that the crude death rate as defined above and  लागू  to a whole population can give  a  misleading  छाप  .
The  crude  death  रेट  depends  on  the age  (  and  लिंग  ) specific  मृत्यु  rates and the age ( and gender ) distribution of the  जनसांख्यिकी  .
The number of deaths per 1000 people can be higher  लिये  developed nations  than  in less-developed countries , despite  जीवन  expectancy being higher in developed countries due to standards of  स्वास्थ्य  being better .
This happens because developed countries typically have a completely different population age distribution , with a  much  higher proportion  of  older people , due to both  निम्नतर  recent birth rates and lower mortality rates .
a  more complete picture of mortality is given  by  a  जीवन  table which shows the mortality rate separately for each age .
A life table is necessary to give a good estimate of life expectancy  .
an  otoacoustic emission  (  OAE ) is a sound which is generated  इससे  within the inner ear .
Having been predicted by Thomas Gold in 1948 , its existence was first demonstrated experimentally by  दाउद  Kemp in 1978  और  otoacoustic emissions have since been shown to arise by a number of different cellular mechanisms within the inner  कान  .
Studies have shown that OAEs disappear after the  भीतरी  ear has been damaged  ,   so  OAEs  हैं   प्रायः  used in the laboratory and the clinic as a  माप  of inner ear  स्वास्थ्य   .
Broadly speaking , there  हैं  two types of otoacoustic  emissions  : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( SOAEs ) , which can occur without external stimulation , and evoked otoacoustic emissions  (  EOAEs ) , which require an evoking  stimulus  .
Hurricane Tomas was  the   उन्नीसवीं  named storm and twelfth hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season .
Tomas developed from a tropical  वेव  east  of   the  Windward Islands on October 29 .
Quickly intensifying into  a  hurricane  ,  it moved through the Windward Islands and passed very near Saint Lucia  .
After reaching Category  2  status on the Saffir-Simpson scale ,  टॉमस  quickly weakened to a tropical  तूफ़ान   in  the central  caribbean  Sea ,  due   to  strong wind shear and dry  एयर  .
Tomas later regained hurricane  औकात  as it reorganized near the Windward  ड्योढ़ी  .
Throughout the hurricane 's  पाथ   ,  71 people are known to have been killed ,  14   of  whom were in Saint Lucia .
Monetary  नुकसान  throughout the  windward  Islands were estimated at US  $  588 million , mainly in  संत  Lucia .
In the wake of the storm  in  Haiti , flooding  intensified  an  जारी  cholera  outbreak   indirectly  causing more fatalities .
According to a  रपट  released in December 2010 , 55 people were  मारे  in Cuba  और  Hispanola ,  हालांकि   the  distribution of these fatalities are unknown  .
overall  damage from  the  storm was at least  $  741 million .
Victoria  जैक्सन  ( born August 2  ,  1959 ) is  an  American comedian ,  अभिनेत्री  , satirist , singer and internet blogger best known as  a  cast member of the NBC  टेलीविज़न  sketch  कॉमेडी  series Saturday Night  सजीव  ( SNL )  इससे  1986 to 1992 .
She has  प्राप्त  attention as  a  vocal critic of President  बराक  Obama  ,   और  is an  क्रियाशील   भागीदार  in  the  Tea  पार्टी  movement .
Postmodern  साहित्य  is  साहित्य   characterized  by heavy reliance on techniques like fragmentation , paradox , and questionable narrators ,  और   is  often ( though  नहीं  exclusively ) defined as a style  or  trend which emerged in  the   post–world  War II era .
Postmodern works are seen  as  a reaction against Enlightenment thinking and  modernist  approaches  to  literature .
Postmodern literature ,  जैसे  postmodernism as a whole  ,  tends to resist definition or classification as a `` movement '' .
Indeed , the convergence of postmodern literature with various modes of critical  सिद्धान्त  ,  विशेषकर  reader-response  और  deconstructionist approaches , and the subversions of the implicit contract between author , text and  रीडर  by which its works are  प्रायः  characterised  ,  have led  to   pre-modern  fictions  ऐसे  as Cervantes ' Don Quixote ( 1605,1615 ) and Laurence  sterne  's eighteenth-century satire  tristram  Shandy being retrospectively  inducted  into the fold .
While there is little  सर्वसम्मति  on  the  precise characteristics , scope , and  महत्व  of  postmodern  literature ,  as  is often the case with artistic movements  ,  postmodern literature is commonly defined in  संबंध   to  a precursor .
For example ,  a  postmodern  साहित्यिक  work tends not to  conclude  with the neatly tied-up  समाप्ति  as is often found in modernist  साहित्य  , but often  parodies   it  .
Postmodern authors tend to  celebrate  chance over craft , and further employ metafiction to undermine the writer  's  authority .
Another characteristic of  postmodern  literature is the  questioning  of distinctions  between  high and low culture through  the  use of  pastiche  ,  the  combination of subjects and genres not previously deemed fit for literature .
Enigma  is  an electronic musical project founded  in  Germany  by   माइकल  Cretu , David  fairstein   और  Frank Peterson  in  1990 .
The Romanian-born Cretu  conceived  the  पहेली  project while working in Germany , but based  उसके  recording studio A.R.T . Studios in Ibiza  ,   स्पेन  ,  इससे  the early  1990s   जबतक  May 2009  ,   जहाँ  he  रै  recorded all of Enigma 's studio  रिलीज  to date  .
Cretu is  दोनो  the composer and the producer of the project  .
उसके  former wife , pop singer  सैंड्रा   ,  often provided vocals on Enigma tracks  .
Jens Gad co-arranged and played guitar  on  three of the Enigma albums  .
Peter Cornelius  भी  contributed  to  Enigma during the 1990s .
Seven studio albums have been produced  अंतर्गत  the name of the project .
scooby-doo  is  an   अमरीकी   एनिमेटेड   कार्टून  franchise ,  comprising   अनेक  animated  टेलीविज़न   श्रेणी   उत्पादित  from 1969 to the present day .
The original series , Scooby-Doo , Where  हैं  You !
,  was created  लिये  Hanna-Barbera Productions by  लेखक  Joe  माणिक्य  and Ken Spears in 1969 .
This Saturday morning cartoon series featured four teenagers— Fred Jones , Daphne Blake ,  velma  Dinkley , and Norville `` Shaggy  ''   रोजर्स  — and their talking brown Great Dane dog named  scooby-doo  , who solve mysteries involving supposedly  अलौकिक  creatures through a  श्रेणी  of  हरकतों  and missteps .
following  the  कामयाबी  of  the  original  श्रेणी   ,  Hanna-Barbera and its successor Warner  ब्रदर्स  . Animation have produced  numerous  follow-up and  spin-off  animated  श्रेणी  and several related works  ,  including television specials and telefilms , a line of direct-to-video films ,  और  two  warner  Bros. –produced theatrical feature films .
Some versions of  scooby-doo  feature different variations on the show 's supernatural theme , and include characters such  as   स्कूबी  's cousin  scooby-dum   और  nephew Scrappy-Doo in addition to or instead of some of the original characters  .
Scooby-Doo was  originally  broadcast on CBS from  1969  to 1976  ,  when it moved to ABC .
ABC  aired  the show until  canceling   it  in 1986  ,  and presented a  spin-off  featuring the characters as children , A Pup Named Scooby-Doo , from 1988  जबतक   1991  .
दो   नई  Scooby-Doo series , What 's New ,  scooby-doo  ?
और  Shaggy and Scooby-Doo  मिलेंगी  a a  सुराग  ! ] ] ,  aired   as  part of Kids WB  on  The  wb  network and its  successor  , The CW network ,  इससे   2002   जबतक  2008 .
The most recent Scooby-Doo series , Scooby-Doo !
Mystery Incorporated  ,  aired on Cartoon Network  इससे  2010 to 2013 .
Repeats  of  the  विभिन्न  Scooby-Doo  श्रेणी  are  ब्रॉडकास्ट  frequently on Cartoon Network and  boomerang  in the United  राज्य  and other  देशों  .
Call of Duty is  a  first-person and third-person shooter computer/ video game franchise .
The series began on the PC , and later expanded  to  consoles and  handhelds  .
Several  spin-off   खेल  have also  महरूम  released .
The earlier games  in  the series are set primarily  in   संसार  War  ii  , this includes : Call of Duty , Call of Duty 2  ,   और   कॉल  of Duty 3  .
शुरूआत  with  आधुनिक  Warfare  ,  which is set in  आधुनिक  times  ,  the series has shifted focus away from World War  ii  .
Call of  ड्यूटी   4  : Modern Warfare ( released November 2007 )  थी   followed  by Call of Duty :  संसार   at  War and Call of Duty : Modern  warfare  2 .
Black Ops ( released November 2010 ) takes place in the Cold War , while  आधुनिक  Warfare 3 ( released November 2011 ) takes  प्लेस  in  the  near-future setting .
Black Ops 2  (  Released  नवम्बर  13 , 2012 ) takes place in  the  year 2025 .
The Call of Duty games are published and owned  by  Activision with Aspyr Media publishing it for Apple OS X .
जबकि  the studio Infinity  वार्ड  primarily still develops them , Treyarch has  भी  developed several of the titles with the release of  the   studios  ' games  interlaced  with each  अन्य  .
Some games have been developed by  धूसर  Matter Interactive , Spark  असीमित  , Amaze Entertainment , n-Space ,  विद्रोह  Developments , Ideaworks  खेल  Studio , Sledgehammer Games and nStigate Games .
The games use a variety of engines , including the id Tech  3  , the  treyarch  NGL , and the IW 5.0 .
अन्य  products in the franchise include a  लकीर   of  action figures designed by Plan-B Toys  ,   a   कार्ड  game created by Upper Deck  ,  and a comic book mini-series  प्रकाशित  by  wildstorm  .
As of November  11  , 2011  ,  the Call Of  ड्यूटी  series  have  sold over 100 million copies .
As  of  March 31 , 2012  वहीँ  are  40  million  मासिक  active players  आरपार  all of the Call of Duty  शीर्षक   ,  with 10  लाख  Call of Duty : Elite users and 2 million  paying  annual members .
Over 1.6  अरब  hours of online gameplay  have   महरूम  logged  आधुनिक  Warfare 3 since its 2011  रिलीज   .
The estate  कर  in  the  United States  is  a tax imposed on  the  transfer of the `` taxable  एस्टेट   ``   of  a deceased  व्यक्ति   ,  whether such property is transferred  via  a will , according to the state laws of intestacy or otherwise made as an incident of the death of the owner , such  as  a transfer of property from an intestate estate or trust ,  or   the   भुगतान  of certain life insurance benefits or financial account sums to beneficiaries  .
The estate tax is  एक  part of  the  Unified Gift and Estate Tax system in the  संयुक्त  States .
The other part of the system ,  the  gift tax , imposes a tax on  हस्तांतरण  of property  दौरान  a person 's life ; the  तोहफा  tax prevents avoidance of the  एस्टेट  tax should a person want to give away his/her estate .
In addition to the federal  सरकारी  , many states also  थोपने   an  estate tax ,  साथ   the   राज्य  version called either  an  estate  कर  or an  उत्तराधिकार  tax .
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों  of the estate tax call it  the  ``  मौत  tax '' .
If  an  asset is left to a spouse or a Federally recognized charity , the tax usually does  नहीं  apply .
In addition ,  up  to $ 5,250,000 can  be  given by an individual , before  and/or  upon their death , without incurring  संघीय  gift or estate  कर  .
Gavin McGregor Rossdale ( born  30  October 1967 ) is an English actor and  संगीतकार  , known as the lead singer  और  rhythm  guitarist   of  the rock band Bush  .
following  Bush 's  विरह  in 2002 , which  lasted  for eight years , he was the  सीसे  singer  और  guitarist for  संस्थान  , and later began a  सोलो  career .
जब  performing solo , Gavin  plays  songs from his extensive musical libraries .
Rossdale has been ranked in the Top 100 Heavy Metal Vocalists by Hit Parader ( # 75 ) .
Raffaello Sanzio  da   urbino  ( April 6 or March  28  , 1483  –  April 6 ,  1520  ) , better known simply as Raphael , was an Italian painter  और   वास्तु  of the High Renaissance .
His  कार्य  is  admired   लिये   इसके  clarity of form and  आसानी  of  संयोजन  and for its visual achievement  of  the Neoplatonic ideal of human  वैभव  .
Together with  michelangelo  and  लियोनार्डो  da Vinci  ,  he forms the traditional trinity of great masters  of  that period .
Raphael was enormously productive , running  an  unusually large workshop  ,  and despite his death  at  37  ,  a large body of his work remains .
अनेक   of  his works are  मिला  in the Vatican Palace  ,  where  the  frescoed  राफेल   कक्ष  were the central , and the largest  ,  work of his career .
The best known work is The School of Athens in the  वेटिकन  Stanza della Segnatura  .
After his early years in Rome  much  of his work was self-designed , but for the most part executed by the workshop  इससे  his  drawings  , with considerable loss of quality .
He was extremely influential  in  his lifetime , though outside  रोम  his work was mostly known from  उसके  collaborative  printmaking  .
After  उसके   मौत  ,  the  influence  of  his  ग्रेट   प्रतिद्वंद्वी  Michelangelo was  अधिक   फैली  until the 18th and  19th  centuries , when Raphael  's  more serene and harmonious qualities were again regarded as the highest models .
His career falls naturally into three  phases  and three  शैलियाँ  ,  पहला  described by Giorgio Vasari : his  जल्दी  years in Umbria , then a period  of  about four years ( from 1504–1508  )   absorbing  the artistic traditions of Florence , followed by his last hectic and triumphant  बारह  years in  रोम   ,  working for two Popes and their close associates  .
Julia Fiona Roberts ( born October 28  ,  1967  )  is an  अमरीकी  actress  .
She became a Hollywood star  बाद  headlining the romantic comedy  pretty  Woman ( 1990 ) , which grossed $ 464  लाख  worldwide .
After receiving Golden  ग्लोब  Awards and  अकादमी   पुरस्कार  nominations for Steel Magnolias ( 1989 ) and Pretty Woman  ,   वो  won the Academy Award for Best  अभिनेत्री  for her  प्रदर्शन  in Erin Brockovich ( 2000 ) .
Her films The  pelican  Brief  (  1993  )  , My Best Friend 's  विवाह  ( 1997 ) , Mystic Pizza ( 1988  )   ,   नॉटिंग  Hill ( 1999 ) , Runaway Bride ( 1999  )  , Ocean 's Eleven ( 2001 ) , Ocean 's Twelve ( 2004 ) , Charlie Wilson 's War ( 2007 ) ,  वेलेंटाइन  's Day ( 2010 ) , Eat Pray Love ( 2010 ) , and Mirror  दर्पण  ( 2012 ) have collectively brought box office receipts of over $  2.6   अरब  , making her one of the most  कामयाब   अभिनेत्रियों   in  terms  of  box office receipts .
रॉबर्ट्स  had  become  one of  the  highest-paid actresses  in  the world , topping  the  Hollywood Reporters  सालाना  `` power list '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006  .
उसके  fee for 1990 's Pretty Woman  थी   $  300,000  ;  in 2003  ,  she  थी  paid an unprecedented $  25  million for her  भूमिका  in Mona Lisa Smile ( 2003 )  .
As of  2010  , Roberts 's net worth was  अनुमानित  to be $ 140 million .
रॉबर्ट्स   रै  been named  एक  of People magazine 's  ``  50 Most  खूबसूरत  People in the World '' eleven times , tied  साथ  Halle Berry .
In 2011 , she was named  एक  of the  ``  100 Hottest Women of All-Time  ''  by Men  's   स्वास्थ्य  .
In 2001 , Ladies Home Journal ranked her as the 11th  सबसे  powerful  स्त्री  in  the  United States .
Mark  इलियट  Zuckerberg ( born May 14 , 1984  )  is an American computer programmer and Internet entrepreneur .
He is  बेहतरीन  known as one of five co-founders of the  सोशल  networking  जालस्थल  Facebook .
as  of  अप्रैल  2013 ,  zuckerberg  is the  अध्यक्ष  and chief executive of Facebook , Inc. and in 2013  उसके  personal wealth was  अनुमानित   to  be US $  13  .3  अरब  .
साथ   साथ  his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students  एडुआर्डो  Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes , Zuckerberg launched Facebook from Harvard  's  dormitory rooms .
the  group then introduced  फेसबुक  onto  अन्य   campuses  nationwide  और  moved to  पालो  Alto , California  ,  United States  (  U.S.  )  shortly afterwards .
in  2007 , at the  आयु   of  twenty-three  सालो  , Zuckerberg  became  a  अरबपति  as a result of Facebook  और  the number of Facebook users worldwide  पहुँचे  a total of one  अरब  in 2012 .
Zuckerberg was  शामिल  in various  विधिक  disputes that were initiated  by  others in the group , who claimed  a  share of the company based upon their involvement during the development phase of Facebook .
चूंकि  2010 ,  zuckerberg  has  महरूम  named among the  100  wealthiest and most influential people  in  the  संसार  by Time magazine as a part of  इसके  Person  of  the  साल   accolade   .
Zuckerberg was played by actor Jesse Eisenberg in  the  2010 Hollywood film The  सोशल  Network in which the rise of  फेसबुक   is   portrayed  .
The Mayflower  थी  the ship that  in  1620 transported  102  English Pilgrims , including a core  समूह  of Separatists , to  नई  England .
Their story is one of travail and survival in a harsh New  संसार  environment .
framedThe
कमेटी  of Ways  और  Means  is  the chief tax -writing committee  of  the United States  हाउस   of  Representatives .
Members  of  the Ways and Means Committee are not allowed to serve on any other House Committees  जबतक  they  लागू   लिये  a waiver from their party 's congressional leadership .
The Committee has jurisdiction over  सब   कराधान  , tariffs  और  other revenue-raising  उपायों  , as well as a number of other programs including:
Social Security
बेरोजगारी  benefits
medicare
Enforcement  of   चाइल्ड  support laws
Temporary Assistance for Needy  परिवारों   ,  a federal welfare  कार्यक्रम
Foster care and adoption programs
The U.S. Constitution  requires  that all bills regarding taxation must originate in the House of  प्रतिनिधि  .
Since House procedure is that all bills regarding taxation must go through this committee ,  the  committee  is   बहुत  influential ,  as  is  इसके  Senate  बंटवारा   ,   the  U.S.  सीनेट  Committee  on  Finance .
The Ways  और  Means Committee in the 111th Congress  थी  chaired  by   चार्ली   rangel   ,   जो  had taken a leave  of  absence as chairman  जबतक  House ethics violations were resolved .
however  , his leave of absence as chairman was ruled to be a resignation  .
Pete Stark  resigned  as acting chairman , so Sander Levin held  कि  position  जबतक  the start  of  the 112th Congress .
Dave Camp became the committee chair  लिये   the  112th Congress , after the Republicans won control of  the  House in  the  2010 election .
The blue whale ( Balaenoptera musculus ) is  a   समुद्री  mammal  belonging   to  the  suborder   of  baleen whales ( called Mysticeti ) .
at  in length and  or  more in weight , it is the largest  ज्ञात  animal to have ever existed .
Long and slender , the blue  व्हेल  's body can be various  शेड्स  of bluish-grey dorsally and somewhat lighter underneath .
वहीँ   हैं   at  least three distinct subspecies  :  B.  m.  musculus of the  उत्तर  Atlantic and North Pacific  ,  B. m. intermedia  of  the Southern Ocean and B.  m.   brevicauda  ( also known  as   the  pygmy blue whale ) found in the Indian  समंदर  and South Pacific Ocean .
B. m. indica , found  in  the Indian Ocean , may  be  another subspecies .
As with other baleen whales , its diet consists almost exclusively of small crustaceans known as krill .
Blue whales  यहूद  abundant  in  nearly all  the  oceans on Earth until the beginning of  the  twentieth century .
लिये  over a century , they were hunted almost to extinction by whalers until protected by the international community in 1966  .
A 2002 report estimated there were 5,000 to 12,000 blue  whales  worldwide  ,  located  in   at  least five  समूह   .
More recent research into the Pygmy subspecies  suggests  this may be an underestimate .
Before whaling , the largest population was  in  the  अंटार्कटिक  , numbering approximately 239,000 ( range 202,000 to  311,000  ) .
There  remain   तभी  much smaller ( around 2,000 ) concentrations  in  each  of  the eastern North Pacific ,  अंटार्कटिक  , and Indian Ocean groups .
There are two  अधिक  groups in  the  North Atlantic , and at least two in  the   दक्षिणी  Hemisphere .
The  ग्लोब   artichoke  ( Cynara cardunculus  var  . scolymus ) is a  किस्में  of a species  of   thistle  cultivated as a  खाना  .
The edible matter is buds that form within the  पुष्प  heads before the flowers come into  खिलते  .
The buds go away or change to a  coarse  , barely edible form when the flower blooms .
the  uncultivated  or  wild  किस्में  of the species is  पुकारा  a cardoon .
It is a perennial  संयंत्र  native to  the  Mediterranean region  .
The  संयुक्त   राज्य   एक  hundred-dollar  विधेयक  ( $ 100 )  is  a denomination of United States currency  .
U.S.  statesman  , inventor , and diplomat  बेंजामिन   फ्रैंकलिन  is currently featured on the obverse of the bill .
on  the reverse of the  banknote  is an image of  स्वतंत्रता  Hall  .
the  $  100  bill is the largest denomination that has been printed since July 13 , 1969 , when the  denominations  of $ 500  ,  $ 1,000 , $ 5,000 , and $ 10,000 were retired .
The Bureau  of  Engraving and Printing says the average life  of  a  $   100  bill in circulation is 90 months  (  7.5  सालो  ) before  it  is  replaced  due to  पहनें  and tear .
The bills are also  commonly  referred  to  as ``  benjamins  '' , in reference to  the  use  of  Benjamin Franklin 's portrait on  the  denomination , or `` C-Notes '' , based on the Roman numeral for 100  .
The  विधेयक   is  one of two denominations printed today  कि  does not feature  a  President of the United States ; the  अन्य  is the $  10  bill  ,  featuring Alexander Hamilton .
The  समय  on  the  clock of Independence Hall on the  रिवर्स   ,   according  to the U.S. Bureau of Engraving and Printing  ,  shows  लगभग  4:10 .
One hundred hundred-dollar bills  हैं  delivered by Federal Reserve Banks in  mustard-colored  straps ( $ 10,000 ) .
The Series  2009   $   100  bill redesign was unveiled  on  April 21 , 2010 , and was to be issued to the public on February 11 , 2011 ,  लकिन  production  थी  shut down in December 2010 because  as  many  as  30 % were  अनुपयोगी  due to  a  manufacturing flaw .
A  लंबवत   क्रीज  in the paper reveals a  रिक्त  space on the  विधेयक  when pulled  आउट  .
In  उनके  replacement , and continuing  the  high demand of this denomination , the  श्रेणी  2006A  थी  launched retaining  the  previous  डिज़ाइन   (  1996-generation ) .
On April  24  , 2013 ,  the  Federal Reserve announced the  नई  $ 100 bill would enter circulation on  अक्तूबर  8  ,  2013 .
King David  in  robes of a Byzantine emperor .
miniature  from the Paris Psalter .
David  (   ;  ISO 259-3 Dawid ;  '   ;  Strong 's : Daveed )  according  to the  यहूदी  Bible , was the  दूसरी   किंग   of  the United Kingdom of Israel , and according to the  नई  Testament Gospels of Matthew and Luke , an ancestor  of  Jesus .
His life is conventionally dated to c. 1040–970 BCE , his reign over Judah c. 1010–1002 BCE  ,  and his reign over the United Kingdom of Israel  c.  1002–970 BCE .
The Books of  सैमुएल  ,  1  Kings  ,   और  1 Chronicles are the  तभी  sources of information on David , although  the  Tel Dan stele ( dated c. 850–835 BCE  )  contains the phrase ( bytdwd ) ,  पढ़ा  as  ``  House of David '' ,  जिससे  most scholars take  as  confirmation of  the  existence in the  mid-9th   सदी  BCE of a Judean  royal  dynasty called the House of David  .
He is  चित्रित  as  a  righteous  किंग   ,  although not without faults , as well as an acclaimed warrior , musician , and poet  ,  traditionally credited for composing many  of  the psalms contained in  the  Book of  ज़बूर   .
दाउद   is   सेंट्रल  to Jewish , Christian  ,  and Islamic doctrine  और  culture .
biblical  tradition  maintains  that a  सीधा  descendant  of  David will be the Messiah .
In  islam  he is considered to be a prophet and the king of a nation .
काठमांडू   (   ;  ) is the capital and largest urban agglomerate  of  Nepal  .
The agglomerate consists of Kathmandu  महानगर   नगर  at its core ,  और   इसके  sister cities Patan , Kirtipur , Thimi  ,  and Bhaktapur .
It also includes the recently recognized  शहरी  areas of Shankhapur , Karyabinayak , and Champapur .
Banepa , Dhulikhel , and Panauti are  उपग्रह  urban areas of Kathmandu located just outside the Kathmandu valley .
Kathmandu is also known informally as `` KTM  ''  or the  ``  tri-city ''  .
according  to a  जनसांख्यिकी  conducted in 2011  ,  Kathmandu metropolis alone has 975,453 inhabitants ; and the agglomerate has a population of more than  2.5  million inhabitants .
The metropolitan  नगर  area is and has a population  घनत्व  of  19,250  per km2  .
The  नगर  stands at an elevation of  लगभग  in  the   bowl-shaped  Kathmandu Valley  of  central Nepal  .
it  is surrounded by four major mountains  :   shivapuri  ,  phulchoki  ,  nagarjun   ,  and Chandragiri .
Kathmandu Valley is  भाग  of three districts (  काठमांडू   ,  Lalitpur ,  और  Bhaktapur ) , has the highest population density in  the  country , and is  घर   to  about a twelfth of  नेपाल   's   जनसांख्यिकी  .
During Rana  और  Shah eras , the name ``  नेपाल  '' referred  तभी  to the Kathmandu Valley ; it was what people who lived outside the valley called it  .
During this period , British historians called the valley itself `` Nepal Proper ''  .
Today , Kathmandu is not only the  पूंजी   of  the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal , but also the headquarters of  the  Central Development Region of Nepal .
The Central Region comprises three zones : Bagmati , Narayani ,  और   जनकपुर   .
काठमांडू  is located in the Bagmati Zone  .
Kathmandu is the gateway to tourism in Nepal .
It is also the nerve center of the country 's economy .
It  रै  the  सबसे   उन्नत  infrastructure of any urban area in Nepal , and its economy is focused on  पर्यटन   ,  which accounted for 3.8 % of  नेपाल  's GDP in 1995–96  .
(  पर्यटन  in  काठमांडू   अस्वीकृत  thereafter  दौरान  a period of political unrest , but since then has improved  .  )
The city has a rich history , spanning nearly 2000 years , as inferred from inscriptions  मिला   in  the  घाटी  .
Religious and  सांस्कृतिक  festivities  रूप   a  major part of the  जीवनदान  of people residing in Kathmandu .
सबसे  of Kathmandu 's people follow Hinduism and many  अन्य  follow Buddhism .
There are people of  अन्य  religious beliefs as well ,  giving  Kathmandu  a  cosmopolitan culture .
नेपाली  is  the   सबसे   commonly  spoken language  in   the  city .
Nepal Bhasa is the indigenous language spoken by  the  Newar people .
Hindi is widely understood and English is understood  by  Kathmandu 's educated residents .
The city 's literacy rate is 98 % .
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( Lalitpur Patan ) and Bhaktapur are integral to Kathmandu  's  cultural heritage , tourism industry ,  और  economy ; therefore UNESCO  's  World Heritage Site lists all three cities  '   स्मारक   और  attractions  साथ  under one heading ,  ``  Kathmandu  valley-  UNESCO World Heritage Site `` .
Field hockey , usually referred  to  simply  as  hockey , is  a  team sport  of  the hockey  परिवार   जिससे  is played between  दो  teams of eleven players with  हॉकी   sticks  and a hard , solid plastic ball .
At the turn of the 21st century ,  the   खेल  is  निभाई  globally , with particular popularity throughout Europe , Asia , Oceania  ,  and South America  –  in addition to being  the   नेशनल  sport of Pakistan  और  India .
The term `` field hockey  ''   is   प्रयुक्त  primarily in Canada  ,  the United States , and other regions of the world where the sport of ice hockey is more  लोकप्रिय  .
During play , goal keepers are the only players  जो  are  अनुमत  to  टच   the  ball with  कोई  part of their body ( with the exception of a  खिलाड़ी  's hand  माना  'part of  the  stick ' ) , with this  तभी   applying  within the shooting circle ( also known as  the  D  ,  or  शूटिंग  arc , or just the circle ) ,  जबकि   फ़ील्ड  players play the ball with the flat side of their stick .
The team that scores the most goals by the end of the match wins  .
If the score is  tied   at  the end  of  the game , either a draw is declared or the game goes into extra time and/or a penalty shootout ,  depending  on  the  competition  's  format .
The governing body  of  hockey is  the  International Hockey Federation ( FIH ) ,  साथ  men and women being  represented  internationally in competitions including  the  Olympic  खेल  , Commonwealth games , Hockey World Cup , Champions  ट्रॉफी  and Junior Hockey World Cup , with many countries  कार्यशील  extensive junior , senior  ,   और  masters  '  club competitions .
The FIH is also responsible for organising  the  Hockey Rules Board and developing the rules for the  खेल  .
a  popular variant of field hockey is  अंदर  hockey , which differs in a number of respects while embodying the primary  सिद्धान्त  of  हॉकी  .
Indoor hockey is a 6-a-side variant , with a field which is reduced  to  approximately 40m × 20m .
With many  of  the rules  बाकी  the same  ,  including obstruction and  फीट  , there are  अनेक  key  विसंगतियाँ  - Players may  नहीं  raise the ball  जबतक  shooting on goal ,  खिलाड़ी  may  नहीं   hit  the ball ( instead  utilising  pushes to  ट्रांसफ़र  the ball )  ,  and the sidelines are replaced with solid  बाधाओं  which the  बॉल  will rebound off .
ethan  ``  cane  ''  ashby  ( né Atkinson  )  is  a  fictional character from the  अमरीकी   सीबीएस  soap opera The Young and  the  Restless .
He is portrayed  by  Australian actor Daniel Goddard , who originally auditioned  लिये  Brad Snyder on As the World  turns  but was  अनुशंसित  for a role on The Young and the Restless  बजाय  .
The role was  to  be portrayed as an American  ,   लकिन  Goddard  's  Australian  descent   बहकावे  the character 's background .
Former head  लेखक  Lynn Marie Latham introduced him during the  एपीसोड  airing  on  January 12  ,  2007 as an  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  bartender in search  of  his family , a debut that received a mixed response .
Latham  निर्मित  Cane as the son of Phillip Chancellor II ( Donnelly Rhodes ) and  jill   फोस्टर  Abbott  (  Jess  वाल्टन  ) but  the  character  's  background was rewritten by Maria Arena Bell in 2009 , reestablishing him as the son of Colin and Genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers and Genie  फ्रांसिस  )  .
Though characterized as  ``  mysterious  ''  , Cane is `` loyal and dedicated '' ,  जबकि  Goddard described  the  character as  a   ``  typical Australian  ,  working-class kind of guy '' .
He was  the  first member of the  एटकिन्सन  family to appear on the series ,  followed  by his parents and identical twin brother  .
Soon after his debut , he became  a  leading character , a  निर्णय  praised  by  viewers and critics .
The character has been involved  साथ  Amber Moore ( Adrienne Frantz ) ,  क्लो   मिशेल  (  एलिज़ाबेथ  Hendrickson ) and most  notably  Lily Winters (  christel  Khalil ) ,  a  romance that garnered significant fan attention  .
in  2009 , Cane and Lily were married ; Global BC would later  कॉल   लिली  the love of Cane  's  life .
The pair  था  two children  ,  Charlie  और  Mattie Ashby .
In 2011 ,  the  actor was fired  ,   और  Cane was shot to death onscreen  .
However , Goddard was  rehired  soon after viewers  campaigned  for  उसके  return , revealing  कि  Cane 's  एकसमान  twin brother was  in  fact the  man  who died .
This sacrificed his marriage to  लिली  , but the couple were remarried on Valentine 's Day in 2012 .
Goddard  रै  been  widely   acclaimed  for his portrayal ; Canyon News said that he portrays the character  honestly  , and is  ``  always dependable , on fire and exciting '' .
John Christopher  ``  Johnny '' Depp II (  born  June 9 , 1963 ) is an  अमरीकी   कर्ता  , film producer , and  संगीतकार  .
he  has won  the  Golden Globe Award  और  Screen Actors Guild  पुरस्कार   लिये   बेहतरीन  Actor .
Depp rose to prominence  on  the 1980s television series 21 Jump Street , becoming a teen  आइडल  .
Dissatisfied with that status , Depp  turned  to film for more challenging roles  ;  he played  the  title  अक्षर  of the acclaimed Edward  scissorhands  ( 1990 ) and later found  बक्सा   दफ्तर  success in films  ऐसे  as Sleepy Hollow ( 1999 ) , Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (  2005  ) ,  ऐलिस  in Wonderland ( 2010 )  ,  Rango ( 2011 ) and the Pirates  of  the Caribbean film  श्रेणी  ( 2003–present ) .
He has collaborated with director  और  friend  टिम  Burton in eight films ; the most recent being Dark Shadows ( 2012 ) .
Depp has gained  acclaim  for his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in Ed Wood , Joseph D. Pistone in Donnie Brasco , Hunter  S.  Thompson in Fear  और  Loathing in Las Vegas ,  जार्ज  Jung in Blow , and  the  bank  डाकू  John Dillinger in Michael Mann  's  Public Enemies .
Films featuring Depp have grossed  over  $ 3.1 billion  at  the United  राज्य   बक्सा   दफ्तर  and  over  $ 7.6 billion worldwide  .
He has been nominated for top  पुरस्कार   अनेक  times  ,  winning  the  Best Actor Awards  इससे  the Golden –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy Globes –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy for  स्वीनी  Todd  :  The Demon Barber of Fleet Street and  इससे   the  Screen Actors Guild  लिये   pirates   of  the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black  पर्ल   .
he   भी  has garnered a sex symbol status in American cinema ,  होने  twice  नामित  as  the  ``  sexiest   man  Alive ``  by  People magazine in 2003  और  2009  .
He has  महरूम  listed  in  the 2012 Guinness Book of  संसार  Records as the  उच्चतम  paid actor , with $ 75  लाख   .
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3 , commonly known as the  वेब  )  ,  is a system of  interlinked  hypertext documents  पहुँचा  via  the   अंतरजाल  .
With a  वेब   ब्राउजर  ,  एक  can view  वेब  pages that may contain  टेक्स्ट   ,  images  ,   वीडियो  , and other multimedia , and  navigate  between  उन्हें  via  hyperlinks   .
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems  जैसे  ENQUIRE ,  अंग्रेजों   इंजीनियर  , computer  वैज्ञानिक  and  at  that time employee of the  cern  ,  सर  Tim Berners-Lee  ,   अभी   निदेशक  of the  संसार  Wide  वेब  Consortium ( W3C ) ,  लिखा  a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually  become   the  World  चौड़ी  Web .
at   cern  , a European research organisation near  जेनेवा  straddling the  किनारा  between France and Switzerland , Berners-Lee  और  Belgian  कंप्यूटर   वैज्ञानिक  Robert Cailliau proposed in 1990 to  उपयोग  hypertext  ``  to link and  अभिगम  information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user  can  browse  at  will ''  ,  and they publicly introduced the  प्रोजेक्ट  in December of  the  same year  .
Mark Travis John Sanchez ( born November 11 , 1986 ) is an American football quarterback for the New York Jets  of  the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He  थी  drafted in the  पहला  round  of   the  2009 NFL  ड्राफ्ट  as  the   पांचवां  overall  चयन  by  the   jets  and  the  second quarterback taken  overall  .
he   निभाई  college football at  the  University of  दक्षिणी  California ( USC ) .
Sanchez  grew   up  in a  well-disciplined  and athletic family .
In the eighth grade ,  he  began to play  फ़ुटबॉल   और  learn  the   intricacies  of the quarterback position ,  प्रशिक्षण  with his father ,  उपनाम   .
A well-regarded prospect ,  सांचेज़  committed to Southern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  following his successful  ऊँची  school career in which he led his team to a championship title during his final season .
At  यूएससी  , Sanchez was relegated  as  the backup quarterback during his first  तीन  years though he rose to prominence due to his brief appearances on  the  field in 2007 due  to  injuries suffered  by  starting quarterback John  दाउद  Booty .
सांचेज़  also became popular within the community due to his Mexican-American heritage .
Named the starter  in  2008 ,  सांचेज़  led USC to a 12–1 record and won the Rose Bowl  विरूद्ध  Penn State for which Sanchez was  awarded   the  Most Valuable Player award for his performance on offense .
Although many  माना  him  too   अनुभवहीन  , Sanchez announced his intention to enter the 2009 NFL Draft .
He was  चयनित  by the Jets after they traded up with the  क्लीवलैंड  Browns , and was named the starting quarterback prior to the start of the season .
Despite  a   subpar  performance , Sanchez led the Jets to  the  AFC  चैंपियनशिप  Game  ,  a losing effort to the Indianapolis  कोल्टस  , becoming the fourth rookie  क्वार्टरबैक   in  NFL  इतिहास  to  जीत  his first  playoff  game and the second to win two playoff  खेल  .
In  उसके  second  ऋतु  , Sanchez continued to  develop   और  led  the  Jets to the  playoffs  and  the  team 's second consecutive AFC  चैंपियनशिप   खेल   जहाँ  they narrowly lost  to  the Pittsburgh Steelers , 24–19 .
With  the  win over  the  New England Patriots the week prior ,  सांचेज़   tied   चार  other quarterbacks for the  दूसरी  most post-season  सड़क  victories by a quarterback in NFL history .
in  leading the  jets  to two consecutive conference championships , Sanchez joined  क्वार्टरबैक  Ben  roethlisberger  as the only two  quarterbacks  in NFL history to reach  the  conference championship in their first two seasons in the league  .
The next  दो  seasons would be  a  regression  लिये  both the team and Sanchez as they failed to reach the playoffs .
Fans and media critics called for  a  struggling Sanchez to  be  benched .
he   आखिरकार  was  replaced   towards  the end of  the  2012 season with Greg  mcelroy   .
Paul Avery ( April 2 , 1934December 10 ,  2000  ) was an American police reporter , best  ज्ञात  for  उसके  stories on  the  infamous serial killer known as the Zodiac  ,  and later for  उसके   कार्य  on the Patricia Hearst kidnapping .
A small submersible AC sump  पंप  with a garden hose  कनेक्टर
a  sump  पंप  is  a   पंप  used  to   हटाएँ  water  कि  has accumulated  in   a  water collecting sump basin ,  commonly  found in the basement  of  homes .
The water may enter via the perimeter drains of  a  basement waterproofing system  ,   funneling  into the basin or because of rain or  प्राकृतिक  ground water , if the basement is below  the   जल  table level .
Sump pumps are used where basement flooding happens regularly and  to  remedy  dampness  where the water  तालिका  is above the foundation  of   a  home .
Sump pumps send water away  इससे  a house to any place where it is  no   longer  problematic , such as  a  municipal storm  नाली  or a dry well .
Pumps may discharge to the sanitary  सीवर  in older installations .
एकबार  considered acceptable , this practice may  अभी  violate the plumbing code or  नगरपालिका   bylaws  , because it can overwhelm the municipal sewage treatment  प्रणाली  .
Municipalities urge  homeowners  to disconnect and reroute sump pump  निर्वहन  away from sanitary  sewers  .
Fines may be imposed for noncompliance .
Many homeowners have inherited their  sump   पंप  configurations and do  नहीं  realize that the pump discharges to the sewer .
if   the  discharge is  खिलाया  to  a  laundry sink in the basement , it  's  likely going  to  the  सीवर  .
Usually hardwired  into  a home 's electrical system ,  sump  pumps may have a  बैटरी  backup  .
The  घर   's  pressurized water supply  शक्तियां  some pumps , eliminating  the  need for electricity at the expense of using potable water  ,  potentially making them more expensive to operate than electrical pumps and creating  an  additional water  निपटान  problem .
चूंकि  a  sump   जलाशय  may overflow  if  not  constantly  pumped , a backup  प्रणाली  is important for cases when the main  शक्ति  is out  लिये  prolonged periods of time , as during a severe storm  .
There are generally two types of sump pumps —  pedestal   और  submersible .
The pedestal pump 's motor is  आरोहित  above the sump , where it is  अधिक   easily  serviced , but is also  अधिक  conspicuous .
The  पंप  impeller is driven by a long , vertical extension shaft  और  the  impeller  is in a scroll  आवास  in the base of the pump .
The  submersible  pump is entirely mounted inside the sump , and is specially sealed to  prevent  electrical  छोटी  circuits .
Sump pump systems are also utilized in industrial and commercial  अनुप्रयोग  to control water table  -सुनानाd   समस्याएं  in surface  मृदा  .
An artesian aquifer or  आवधिक  high water  तालिका  situation can cause the ground to become unstable due to water saturation .
As long as the pump  कृत्यों   ,   the  surface soil will remain stable .
These sumps are typically ten feet in  गहराई   or  more ; lined  साथ  corrugated  मेटल  pipe that contains perforations or  नाली   छेद  throughout .
They may  शामिल  electronic control systems with visual and audible alarms and are  प्रायः  covered to  prevent  debris and animals from falling in .
Bleeding Kansas , Bloody Kansas  or  the Border War ,  थी  a series of violent political confrontations involving anti-slavery Free-Staters and  pro-slavery  `` Border Ruffian `` elements , that took place  in  the Kansas Territory  और  the  neighboring  towns  of  Missouri between 1854 and 1861 .
At the  दिल  of the conflict was the question of  whether  Kansas would enter the Union as a free state or slave state .
As  ऐसे  , Bleeding Kansas was  a  proxy war between Northerners and Southerners over the issue of  गुलामी  in  the  United States .
The term `` Bleeding Kansas  ''  was coined by Horace Greeley of the New York  ट्रिब्यून  ; the events  it   encompasses  directly  presaged   the  American Civil  युद्ध  .
Congress had long struggled to balance the interests of pro-slavery forces and anti-slavery forces .
The events  बाद  known  as   bleeding  Kansas were set into motion by the Kansas–Nebraska Act of  1854  , which nullified  the  Missouri Compromise  और  instead implemented the  अवधारणा  of popular sovereignty .
an  ostensibly  लोकतांत्रिक   विचार  , popular sovereignty  stated   कि  the  निवासियों   of  each territory or state should  decide   whether  it  होता  be a free  or  slave state ; however  ,  this resulted in immigration en masse  to  Kansas by activists from both sides .
At one point  ,  Kansas  था  two separate  सरकारें  , each with its  अपना  constitution , although only one  थी  federally  पहचाना  .
On January 29 , 1861 , Kansas  थी  admitted to the Union  as  a free state , less than  तीन  months before  the  Battle of Fort Sumter which began the Civil War  .
Benzene is an organic chemical compound with the molecular  सूत्र  C6 H|Hydrogen|H6 .
Its molecule is  रचित  of 6 carbon atoms joined in a ring  ,  with 1 hydrogen atom attached to each carbon  अणु  .
Because  इसके  molecules  contain  only  कार्बन  and hydrogen  अणु  , benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon .
Benzene is a natural constituent of  crude  oil , and is one of the most basic petrochemicals  .
Benzene  is   an   खुशबूदार  hydrocarbon and  the  second [  n  ]  -  annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ) , a  चक्रीय  hydrocarbon with a continuous pi bond .
It  is  sometimes abbreviated Ph –H . Benzene is a colorless and highly flammable liquid with  a  sweet smell  .
It is mainly used as a  precursor   to  heavy chemicals , such as ethylbenzene and cumene , which are produced  on  a billion kilogram scale .
क्युकी  it has a  ऊँची  octane number , it is an important component of gasoline , composing a few percent of its mass .
Most non-industrial applications have  महरूम  limited by  बेंजीन  's carcinogenicity .
Giovanni Virginio  स्क्यापारेल्ली   (  ; 14 March 1835 – 4  जुलाई  1910 ) was an Italian astronomer and  विज्ञान  historian  .
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of Nintendo  's  Wii game console to run software that has not been authorized by Nintendo .
It achieves this  by   defeating  the Wii 's copy  सुरक्षा   और  code signing  उपायों  .
In more  सामान्य  terms  ,   वी  Homebrew refers to the use of  the  Wii 's hardware , accessories  और  software for purposes outside those  intended   by  the manufacturer .
Original efforts focused on using the  वी  Remote as a pointing device on other  ऑपरेटिंग  systems  ,  or running web-based games in the built-in web browser .
Subsequent developments in games exploits , such as the  ``  Twilight  हैक   ``   ,   ``  Bannerbomb '' and its  बाद  incarnation `` LetterBomb ''  ,  `` Smash Stack ''  ,  `` Indiana Pwns  ''  , `` Yu-Gi-OWNED ''  ,  `` bathaxx ''  ,  and  ``  Return of  the   jodi  ''  ,  made  installing  the ``  homebrew  Channel `` possible .
Hadley (  सही  )  discussing  the 2006 Israel-Lebanon crisis with Bush and Rice  .
Stephen John Hadley ( born February 13 , 1947 ) was the 21st  u.S.   सहायक  to the President  लिये   नेशनल  Security Affairs ( commonly referred  as  National  सुरक्षा  Advisor )  ,  serving under President  जार्ज  W. Bush  .
Take  एकसमान   growing  plants and give fertilizer to  हाफ  of them  .
If  वहीँ  are differences between  the  fertilized plant  समूह  and the unfertilized  ``  control ''  समूह  , these differences may  be  due to the fertilizer  .
a  scientific control is  an   प्रयोग  or  अवलोकन  designed to minimize the  प्रभाव  of  परिवर्तनीय   अन्य  than the single independent variable .
This increases the reliability  of   the  results ,  प्रायः  through a comparison  between  control measurements and the other measurements .
Scientific controls are a part of the scientific  विधि   .
लिये   उदाहरण  , during drug testing , scientists will try  to  control two groups  to   रखना   उन्हें  as identical as possible , then  allow  one  समूह   to   कोशिश  the drug  .
Another example might be testing plant fertilizer by  giving  it to  तभी  half the plants in a garden  :  the plants that  प्राप्त  no fertilizer are the  कंट्रोल  group , because they establish the baseline level of growth that the  fertilizer-treated  plants will be  compared  against  .
Without  a  control group , the experiment can  नहीं  determine whether  the  fertilizer-treated  पौधे   grow  more than they would have if untreated .
Ideally  ,   सब  variables in an experiment will be controlled (  accounted  for by the control measurements ) and none  होगा  be uncontrolled .
In such an experiment ,  if  all  the  controls  कार्य  as expected , it is possible to conclude that the experiment is working as intended and  कि  the results of the experiment  हैं   due  to the effect  of  the  परिवर्तनीय  being tested .
That is , scientific controls  allow   an  investigator  to  make a claim like `` Two  परिस्थितियों  were  एकसमान  until  फ़ैक्टर  X  occurred   .
Since factor  x  is  the  only difference  between  the two  परिस्थितियों   ,  the new outcome was caused by factor X .  ''
<  <   रासायनिक   तत्व   आंकड़ा  references
John Adams ( October  30  ,  1735  ( O.S . October 19 ,  1735  ) – July 4 , 1826 )  थी  the second president of  the  United  राज्य  ( 1797–1801 ) , having  पहले  served  as   the   पहला   वाइस  president of the United States .
An American Founding  पिता   ,  he was a statesman , diplomat , and  a   अग्रणी   एडवोकेट  of American independence from Great Britain  .
Well educated  ,  he was an Enlightenment political theorist who promoted republicanism and wrote prolifically about his often seminal ideas , both  in  published works and  in  letters  to  his wife and key adviser  अबीगैल  as well as  to  other Founding Fathers .
Adams came to prominence in the early stages  of  the American  क्रान्ति  .
A  वकील  and public figure in Boston , as a delegate from Massachusetts  to  the Continental Congress  ,  he played a leading role in  persuading   कॉंग्रेस  to declare  स्वतंत्रता  .
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of Independence in  1776  ,  और   थी  its primary  एडवोकेट  in the Congress .
Later , as  a  diplomat in Europe , he helped negotiate the eventual peace treaty with  ग्रेट  Britain  ,  and  थी  responsible for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers .
a  political theorist and historian , Adams largely  लिखा  the Massachusetts Constitution in  1780  , which together with his earlier Thoughts on Government ,  बहकावे  American political thought .
एक  of his greatest roles was as a judge  of  character  :  in 1775 ,  he  nominated  जार्ज  Washington to be  commander-in-chief  , and  25  years later nominated  जॉन  Marshall  to   be  Chief  इंसाफ  of the United States .
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him two terms as George Washington 's  वाइस   अध्यक्ष  and his own election in 1796 as the  दूसरी  president .
दौरान  his one term  ,  he encountered ferocious  हमले  by the Jeffersonian Republicans , as  खूब  as the dominant faction in  उसके  own Federalist  पार्टी  led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton .
Adams  हस्ताक्षरित  the controversial Alien  और  Sedition Acts , and built up the army and navy especially in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` )  साथ   फ़्रांस   ,  1798–1800 .
The major accomplishment of his  प्रेसिडेंसी  was  उसके   शांतिपूर्ण   रेज़ोल्यूशन  of the  विरोध  in the face of Hamilton 's opposition .
In 1800  ,  Adams was defeated for  re-election  by Thomas Jefferson and retired  to  Massachusetts  .
He later resumed his  दोस्ती  with  जेफरसन  .
he  and  उसके  wife , Abigail  एडम्स  , founded  an  accomplished family line  of  politicians , diplomats , and historians now referred  to  as  the   एडम्स  political  परिवार  .
Adams was  the  father of  जॉन  Quincy Adams  ,  the sixth President of the United States .
उसके  achievements have  प्राप्त  greater recognition  in   आधुनिक  times ,  हालांकि   उसके   योगदान  were not initially  as  celebrated as those of other Founders .
Adams was the first U.S.  अध्यक्ष  to reside  in  the building that eventually became known as the White House  .
A Watt steam engine .
The steam  इंजन  , fuelled primarily  by  coal , propelled the  औद्योगिक  Revolution  in  Great Britain and the world .
The  औद्योगिक  Revolution was  the  transition to  नई  manufacturing processes that occurred in  the  period from  परिचय   1760  to  कुछ  time between 1820  और  1840 .
इस  transition included going  इससे   हाथ  production methods to machines , new chemical manufacturing and  आयरन  production processes , improved efficiency  of  water power , the increasing use  of  steam power and development of  यंत्र   टूल्स   .
The  परिवर्तन   भी  included  the  change from wood  और  other bio-fuels to coal .
The Industrial revolution began in Britain and within a few  दशकों   स्प्रेड  to Western Europe and the United States .
The  औद्योगिक  Revolution marks a major turning point in history  ;  almost every aspect  of  daily life was influenced in some  रास्ता  .
Most notably , average income and  जनसांख्यिकी  began to exhibit unprecedented sustained growth  .
in  the words of Nobel Prize winner Robert E.  लुकास  , Jr. , `` For the  पहला   समय   in  history  ,   the  living standards of the masses of ordinary people have  begun  to  undergo  sustained growth  ...  Nothing remotely like this economic behavior is mentioned  by  the  शास्त्रीय  economists , even as a theoretical possibility .  ''
William  घंटी  Scott Iron and Coal ,  1855-60
The period of time  covered  by the Industrial Revolution varies with different historians .
Eric  hobsbawm  held  कि   it  'broke out ' in Britain in  the   1780s   और  was not fully felt until the  1830s  or 1840s  ,  while T. S. Ashton held that  it  occurred  roughly  between  1760  and 1830 .
Some 20th-century  इतिहासकारों  such as John Clapham and Nicholas  crafts  have argued that the  प्रक्रम  of economic and social change took place gradually and the term revolution  is  a misnomer .
This  is  still a subject  of  debate among historians .
जीडीपी  per capita was broadly stable before the Industrial Revolution and the emergence of the modern  पूंजीवादी  economy .
the  Industrial  क्रान्ति  began an era of per-capita economic growth in capitalist  economies  .
Economic  इतिहासकारों  are in agreement that the onset of the Industrial Revolution is the most important event in the history of humanity  चूंकि  the domestication of animals and plants .
The First Industrial Revolution evolved  into  the Second Industrial  क्रान्ति   in   the  transition years between 1840 and 1870  ,   जब  technological  और  economic progress gained momentum with the  increasing   अपनाना   of  steam-powered boats  ,  ships and railways , the  विशाल  scale manufacture of machine tools and the  increasing   उपयोग   of  steam  संचालित  factories .
जूलियट  AnnMarie Huddy (  born  September 27 ,  1969  )  ,  is an American television news reporter ,  फिलहाल  appearing on Fox News  चैनल  .
This  सूची  ranks U.S. cities  by  land area ( not including bodies of water ) .
Total  क्षेत्रों  ( including water ) are also given , but note that , when ranked by total area , a number  of  coastal  शहरों  appear disproportionately `` larger ''  .
San Francisco is an extreme example  ;   जल  makes up nearly 80 % of its total area of  232  square miles  (  601 km2 ) .
नोट  also that in many cases a city may be geographically  विशाल  primarily because its  नगरपालिका   सरकारी   रै  merged with the government of the surrounding  काउंटी  .
In some cases the county  no  longer exists , while in others the  व्यवस्था  has formed a  संचित   city–county  ( or  city-  borough in Alaska  ,  or city- parish in Louisiana ) .
These  हैं  shown in bold in the list  नीचे   (  but  नहीं   सब  examples may be indicated ) .
** These are  स्वतंत्र  cities ,  अर्थ  they  हैं  not a part of any county  .
the  large  आंत   (  or bowel  ,  colon ) is the  पिछला  part of the digestive system in vertebrate animals .
Its function is to absorb water from the remaining indigestible food matter  ,  and then to pass useless waste material from the body .
This article is primarily about the human  आंत  ,  हालांकि  the information about its  प्रक्रियाओं   हैं  directly applicable to most mammals  .
the   विशाल  intestine consists of the cecum  ,  rectum and anal canal .
It starts in the  सही  iliac region of  the  pelvis , just  at  or below the right waist , where  it  is joined to the bottom end  of  the small intestine .
From here  it  continues up the abdomen , then across the width of  the   abdominal  cavity , and  तब  it turns  bas  , continuing to its endpoint  at   the   गुदा  .
The large intestine is  परिचय  long  ,  which is about one-fifth of the whole length of the intestinal canal .
In Terminologia Anatomica the large intestine  शामिल  the cecum , colon , rectum ,  और   गुदा  canal .
However ,  कुछ  sources exclude  the   गुदा  canal .
The Green Bay  पैकर्स  are an  अमरीकी  football team based in Green Bay , Wisconsin  .
They are members of the  उत्तर  Division  of  the National Football Conference (  nfc  ) in the  नेशनल  Football League ( NFL  )   .
Green Bay is the  third-oldest  franchise in  the  NFL , having  महरूम   व्यवस्थित  and  playing  in 1919 .
the  Packers  हैं  the  तभी  non-profit , community-owned  प्रमुख   लीग  professional sports team in the United States .
The  पैकर्स  are the  पिछला   vestige  of  ``  small town teams  ''  that were once common in the NFL during  the  1920s and 1930s .
Founded in  1919  by Earl `` Curly ''  lambeau   (  hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team  plays  ) and George  व्हिटनी  Calhoun , the Green Bay Packers can trace  उनके  lineage  to  other  semi-professional  teams in Green  खाड़ी   डेटिंग  back to 1896 .
In  1919   और   1920  the  पैकर्स  competed as a semi-professional football team against clubs from around Wisconsin and the  मिडवेस्ट   .
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA ) in  1921  , the forerunner to what is known today  as  the  नेशनल  Football League ( NFL ) .
Although Green Bay is the last NFL ``  छोटी  town '' team  ,  its local fan base and  मीडिया  extends  into  nearby  मिल्वौकी  ; the team also  निभाई  selected home games there between 1933 and 1994 .
The Green  खाड़ी  Packers have won 13 league  championships  ( more  than  any other team in the NFL ) , including nine NFL championships  prior   to  the Super Bowl era and four Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I  )  ,  1968  ( Super Bowl II  )  , 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011  (  Super Bowl XLV ) .
the  Packers have long-standing , bitter rivalries with their  nfc  North (  formerly  the NFC Central  )   प्रतिद्वंद्वियों  , the Chicago Bears ,  मिनेसोटा  Vikings  और  the Detroit Lions  .
the  Bears-Packers rivalry is  एक  of the oldest rivalries in NFL  इतिहास  , dating  वापस   to  1921 .
The San Fernando Valley ( locally known as `` The Valley  ''  ) is  an  urbanized  घाटी  located in the Los Angeles metropolitan area of southern California , United States , defined by the mountains of the Transverse Ranges circling it .
Home to  1.76   लाख   लोगों   ,  it lies north of the larger  और  more  populous  Los Angeles Basin  .
Nearly two thirds  of  the  घाटी   's  land  क्षेत्रफल  is part of the City of Los Angeles .
The other  incorporated   शहरों  in the valley are  ग्लेनडेल  , Burbank , San Fernando , Hidden Hills and  calabasas   .
San  फर्नांडो  Valley ,  लॉस  Angeles
The exterior of  the   वर्तमान  World of Coca-Cola at Pemberton Place .
The World of Coca-Cola , is a permanent exhibition featuring the history of The Coca-Cola Company .
Its well-known advertising as well as a host  of  entertainment  क्षेत्रों  and  आकर्षण   ,  and is located  in  Atlanta  ,  Georgia ( where the  कम्पनी  's headquarters are located  )  at  pemberton  Place ( named in  सम्मान  of John Pemberton  ,  the inventor of  coca-cola  ) .
as part of Georgia 's  संग्रहालय  .
the complex located across Baker Street from Centennial  ओलम्पिक  Park that  is  home to the Georgia Aquarium and  भविष्य  Center for Civil  &  Human Rights .
It opened to the  पब्लिक   on  May 24  ,  2007 , relocating  इससे  and replacing  the  original exhibit .
Pretties is a 2005 science  fiction  novel and the second  किताब  of the Uglies Trilogy written by Scott Westerfeld .
It  is   नियत  in  a  future  dystopian  world  in  which everyone is turned `` Pretty '' by  चरम   कॉस्मेटिक  surgery  upon  reaching age 16 .
it  tells the story of teenager Tally Youngblood who  विद्रोहियों   विरूद्ध  society 's enforced conformity  .
Susan Leigh Vaughan Smith  (   born  September 26 , 1971 ) is an  अमरीकी   स्त्री  sentenced to life in prison for murdering her children .
Born in  संघ   ,  South  कैरोलिना  , and  a   पूर्व  student  of  the University  of   दक्षिण  Carolina Union , she was convicted on July 22 , 1995 for  murdering  her two sons , 3-year-old Michael Daniel Smith , born October 10 , 1991 ,  और  14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith , born August 5 , 1993 .
the   मामला  gained worldwide attention shortly after it developed  ,   due   to  her claiming that  a  black man stole her car and kidnapped her sons .
वो   बाद  claimed that she suffered from  दिमागी  health  मुद्दे   कि  impaired her judgment .
According to  the  South Carolina Department of Corrections , Smith will  be  eligible for parole on November 4  ,   2024  , after serving a minimum of thirty years .
वो  is incarcerated at  दक्षिण   कैरोलिना  's Leath Correctional Institution ,  निकट  Greenwood .
माउंट  McKinley  (  also known  as  Denali taken from the Inuit  koyukon  Athabaskan language meaning `` The Great One '' ) is the highest mountain peak  in  the United  राज्य  and in North America with a  समिट   उन्नयन   of  above sea level .
At some  ,   the   आधार  to peak rise is considered the  largest  of any mountain situated entirely above sea level .
Measured by topographic prominence , it  is  the third most prominent peak after Mount Everest and  अकोंकागुआ  .
Located in the  अलास्का  Range in the interior of US state of Alaska , it is the centerpiece of  denali  National Park  और  Preserve  .
The first European to document sighting the mountain was George Vancouver in 1794 .
In 1903 , James Wickersham  अंकित  the first attempt  at  climbing  mckinley   जिससे  was unsuccessful .
In  1906  , Frederick Cook claimed the first ascent which  थी  later proven  to  be false .
The  पहला  verifiable ascent to  mckinley  's summit  थी  achieved on June  7  , 1913 by climbers Hudson Stuck , Harry Karstens ,  वाल्टर  Harper  ,  and  रॉबर्ट  Tatum .
In 1951  ,  Bradford Washburn pioneered  the  West Buttress route considered to be the safest  और  easiest route  और  therefore the  सबसे  popular currently in  उपयोग  .
the  Honda S600 is an automobile manufactured by Honda .
it  was launched in March 1964  .
Available  as  a roadster – bearing strong  प्रतिरूप  to  the   होंडा  S500 –  और  as a fastback coupé – introduced  in  March  1965  – the S600 was the  पहला  Honda available in two trim levels .
During  इसके  production run up to 1966 , the  मॉडल  styling would remain pretty much the same  ,  with the most notable  परिवर्तन  coming to  the  front grille , bumper , and headlights .
Powered  by  a DOHC , water-cooled , four-cylinder inline engine  साथ  four carburetors , the engine capacity was increased  to  606 cc from the S500 's 531 cc .
The engine produced at  8,500  rpm  और  had a top speed of .
साथ  the convertible weighing  in  at mere , the extra sheet metal of the coupe  तभी  added to the overall  वज़न  .
Suspension  थी  independent with sealed roller  कड़ी   ड्राइव  to each rear wheel .
The S600 was the first mass marketed  होंडा  car .
First offered only in right-hand  ड्राइव  , it soon  became  available in left-hand drive to appeal to export markets  .
There were a  few  pre-production S500s manufactured in left  हाथ   ड्राइव   ,   दो  or three  भी   होने  shown  in  some early sales brochures .
दोनो  the S600  roadster  and  coupé  were available in standard trim and  a  special  ,  upgraded package called the SM600  जिससे  included ,  among  other  वस्तुएं   ,  special  पेंट  colors ,  विशेष  badging , a standard radio and speaker , a special antenna in the  यात्री  side  सूर्य  visor , standard reversing lights  ,   a  standard  सिगरेट  lighter , a standard heater , better cushioned seats , and a  detachable  seat track for quick removal of the passenger seat .
होंडा  built  3,912  roadsters in 1964 ,  साथ  production climbing to  7,261  convertibles and 1,519 coupes in 1965  .
Production dropped off  in  1966 ( as  वे  were shifting to the S800 ) with  तभी  111  roadsters  and  281  coupes  ,  giving tallies of  11,284   convertibles   और  1,800  coupes  for  the  3 year span .
Everybody Hates  क्रिस   is  an American television  काल  sitcom that depicts the teenage experiences of comedian Chris Rock ( who  is  also the narrator ) while growing up in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn ,  नई   यॉर्क  .
the  show is set between  1983  and  1987   ;  however , Rock himself  थी  a teenager between 1978 and 1983  .
Rock  grew  up  साथ  a boy  नामित  Kenny Montero  ,  whom  he  has often  referred  to as the inspiration for a lot of  the  episodes .
In  अनेक  interviews , Rock has described Kenny as the  कारण  he got into  कॉमेडी  in the first  प्लेस  .
The  दिखाएँ  's title parodies the  सीबीएस  sitcom  everybody  Loves Raymond .
Rock stated : `` Everybody  loves  Raymond but Everybody Hates Chris  !  `` .
The show 's lead actors are Tyler James Williams , Terry Crews ,  tichina  Arnold , Tequan Richmond  ,  Imani Hakim ,  और  Vincent Martella .
In Fall 2008 , the  the  CW  स्थानांतरित  Everybody Hates Chris  और   the   खेल  to the Friday night  मौत  slot .
The fourth season  of  the series premiered  शुक्रवार  ,  अक्तूबर  3 , 2008 , at  8:00pm  Eastern/7:00PM Central  .
On May 21 , 2009 , The CW announced that  it  had  रद्द  Everybody Hates Chris .
Prior to this ,  कार्यपालिका  producer Chris Rock  घोषित  that  the   समाप्त   of  season  4  matched  up  with his own past—dropping out of high  स्कूल  to become a comedian—and that it was time to end the show .
Pleural  उत्सर्ग  is  excess  fluid that  accumulates  between the two  pleural  layers , the fluid-filled space that surrounds the lungs .
Excessive amounts of such fluid can impair breathing by limiting the expansion of the lungs  दौरान   वेंटिलेशन   .
Beowulf (  ;   in  Old English or ) is the conventional title of  an  Old  अंग्रेज़ी  heroic epic poem consisting  of  3182 alliterative long lines , set in  scandinavia   ,  commonly cited  as  one  of   the  most  महत्वपूर्ण   works   of  Anglo-Saxon literature .
It survives in  a  single manuscript known as the Nowell Codex  .
इसके   संयोजन  by an anonymous Anglo-Saxon poet is dated between  the  8th and  the  early 11th century .
In 1731  ,  the  पाण्डुलिपि   थी  badly  क्षतिग्रस्त  by a fire that swept through  a  building housing a  संग्रहण  of  मध्यकालीन  manuscripts  समवेत  by Sir Robert Bruce Cotton .
the  poem  गिरी  into obscurity for  दशकों  , and its  अस्तित्व   किया   नहीं  become widely known again until it  थी   मुद्रित  in 1815 in an edition prepared by  the  Icelandic-Danish scholar Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin .
In the poem , Beowulf ,  a  hero of the Geats in Scandinavia , comes to the help of  hroðgar  , the king of the Danes , whose mead hall ( in Heorot )  रै  been under attack by a monster known as Grendel .
After Beowulf slays  उसे  , Grendel 's  माँ   हमले  the  हॉल   और  is  तब   भी  defeated .
Victorious , Beowulf  goes  home to Geatland in Sweden  और  later becomes king  of  the Geats .
After a period of fifty years  रै   passed   ,  Beowulf defeats  a  dragon , but  is  fatally wounded in the battle .
After  उसके  death ,  उसके  attendants bury  उसे  in a tumulus  ,   a   दफ़न  mound , in Geatland .
shem  Ham and Japheth by James Tissot  1904   .
Shem  (  ; Sēm  ;  Arabic : Sām ; Ge'ez : ሴም , Sēm ; `` renown  ;  prosperity ;  नाम   ''  ) was one of the sons of  नूह  in the Hebrew  बाइबल   as  well as in Islamic  साहित्य  .
He is most popularly  regarded  as  the  eldest son  ,  though some traditions regard him as  the  second son  .
Genesis 10:21 refers to relative ages of Shem  और  his brother Japheth , but with sufficient  ambiguity  to  have  yielded different translations .
The verse is translated in  the  KJV  as   ``  Unto Shem also , the  पिता  of all the children  of  Eber , the brother  of  Japheth the elder , even to  उसे   यहूद  children born . `` .
However ,  the   नई  American Standard Bible gives , `` Also  to  Shem , the father of  सब   the  children of Eber , and  the  older  bhai   of  Japheth , children were born .  ''
Genesis 11:10  रिकॉर्ड  that Shem was  स्टिल  100 years old at the birth of Arphaxad  ,  ( but  nearly  101  -  see  कालक्रम  note , ) two years after the flood , making him barely  99  at the time the  बाढ़  began ; and that he  जिया  for another 500 years  बाद  this , making his  आयु  at death 600 years .
The children  of  Shem were Elam ,  asshur  , Arphaxad  ,  Lud , and Aram , in addition  to  daughters  .
Abraham , the patriarch of the Hebrews and  arabs  ,  थी  one of  the  descendants of Arphaxad .
इस्लामी   साहित्य  describes Shem  as  one  of  the  believing  sons of Noah .
कुछ   स्त्रोत  even  पहचानो  Shem as a  नबी  in his own  सही   और  that he was  the   अगला   नबी   बाद  his  पिता  .
In one Muslim legend ,  shem  was  एक  of  the   लोगों  that God  बना  Jesus  उठाएगा  as a sign to the  children  of Israel .
The 1st century  इतिहासकार  Flavius Josephus  ,  among many others , recounted the  परंपरा  that these five sons were the progenitors of the  राष्ट्र  of Elam , Assyria , Chaldea , Lydia , and Syria , respectively .
Semitic  is  still  a  commonly used term for  the  Semitic languages , as  a  subset of the Afro-Asiatic languages , denoting the common  भाषाई  heritage of Arabic ,  aramaic   ,  Akkadian , Ethiopic , Hebrew and  फ़ोनीशियाई  languages .
according  to  कुछ  Jewish traditions (  e.g.  , B.  talmud  Nedarim 32b  ;   उत्पत्ति  Rabbah  46:7  ;  उत्पत्ति  Rabbah 56:10 ; Leviticus  rabbah  25:6  ;  Numbers  rabbah  4:8 . ) , Shem is believed to have been Melchizedek ,  किंग  of Salem whom Abraham is recorded to have met after  the  battle of the  चार  kings  .
In a few of the  अनेक   extra-biblical  sources that describe him , Shem is also  credited  with killing Nimrod ,  बेटे   of  Cush  .
shem  is  उल्लेखित   in  Genesis  5:32  , 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ;  10  ; 11:10 ; also in 1  क्रॉनिकल्स  1:4 .
Geographic identifications of Flavius Josephus  ,   c.  100 AD ;  japheth  's sons shown in red  ,  Ham 's sons in blue , Shem 's sons in green .
go   पापा   or  Go Daddy Group Inc.  is   a  privately held company that  is  primarily an  अंतरजाल   डोमेन  registrar and web hosting company .
Go Daddy Group Inc. filed  लिये   an  IPO  in  2006  ,  but later canceled it , due to `` market  uncertainties  '' .
In addition to domain registration and hosting  go  Daddy also sells e-business related  तन्त्र  and services .
On June 24 , 2011  ,  The  वॉल  Street  जर्नल  reported  कि  private-equity firms KKR and Silver Lake Partners , along with a  तीसरा  investor , were nearing a deal to buy  the   कम्पनी   लिये  between  $  2–2.5  अरब  .
on  July 1 ,  2011  Go Daddy  पुष्टि  that KKR , Silver Lake Partners and  प्रौद्योगिकी   क्रॉसओवर   ventures  had closed the deal .
Although the purchase  दाम   थी  not officially announced it was reported to be $ 2.25  अरब  , for 65 % of the company .
, Bob Parsons  था  ceded  the  CEO  भूमिका  of Go Daddy to Warren Adelman  ,  who  था   महरूम  with  the  company for  परिचय  10  सालो  .
The Andorran  कोट  of arms at  the  Andorran parliament .
Andorra (  ;  , ) , officially the Principality of Andorra ( )  ,  also called  the   principality  of the Valleys of Andorra ,  (  )  ,  is  a   landlocked  microstate in Southwestern Europe , located in  the  eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France .
It is the sixth smallest nation in  यूरोपीय  , having an area of  और  an  अनुमानित  population of  85,000   in  2012 .
Its capital , Andorra la Vella , is the  उच्चतम  capital city  in  Europe ,  at  an elevation of above  समुद्र  level  .
the  official language is  कैटलन  , although Spanish , Portuguese , and  फ्रेंच  are also commonly spoken .
Created under a charter in 988 , the present Principality was formed in  1278  .
It is known as  a  principality  as  it is a monarchy headed by two co-princes – the Bishop of Urgell and the President of France  .
Andorra  is  a prosperous  देश  mainly because of its tourism industry , which services an estimated  10.2  million visitors annually , and also because of  इसके  status  as  a tax  हेवन  .
it  is not  a  member of  the  European Union  ,  but the euro is the de facto currency .
The people of Andorra have the 4th highest human life expectancy in  the  world — 82  सालो  at birth .
The George Washington University ( GW , GWU , or George Washington ) is a comprehensive private , coeducational research university located in Washington  ,   d.C.  .
It awards certificates ,  स्नातक  degrees  ,  Masters  डिग्री  , and PhDs  आरपार  several dozen disciplines  .
The university was chartered by an Act of Congress on February 9 , 1821 as The Columbian College in the District  of  Columbia .
Kimberly Noel `` Kim '' Kardashian ( born October 21 , 1980  )  is an  अमरीकी  socialite , television  व्यक्तित्व  and  occasional  actress .
In 2007 , she gained notoriety as  the   विषय  of a  sex  tape that subsequently resulted in a court  awarding  her $  5  million ; later in that  वही  year , she and her family  रोज़  to  prominence  with their E !
reality  टेलीविज़न  series Keeping Up with the Kardashians  ,  and its subsequent spin-offs , including Kourtney and  किम  Take New York and Kourtney  और  Kim Take Miami .
In 2010  ,  Kardashian was the highest-earning reality star ,  साथ  estimated  आय  of  $  6  लाख  .
With sisters Kourtney and Khloé  ,  Kardashian  co-owns  the fashion boutique chain D-A-S-H .
वो   रै  been involved in the production  of  several  लाइनों  of clothing and fragrances .
in  August 2011  ,  Kardashian  शादीशुदा  basketball player Kris Humphries in a  widely  publicized  रस्म   .
That  अक्तूबर  , Kardashian filed for divorce following 72 days of marriage .
The move  garnered  significant backlash  इससे   the  media , who  labeled  it a `` publicity stunt '' .
After 536 days , Kardashian and Humphries reached  an  undisclosed settlement  at  the  लॉस  Angeles Superior Court ,  finalizing   the  divorce in April 2013 .
aerial   दृश्य  of  oahu   साथ  freeways and highways , 3D computer-generated image
Fly-around tour of the island
oahu  (  )  or  oahu   ,  known as `` The Gathering Place '' , is the  तीसरा  largest of the Hawaiian Islands and  the  most populous of the islands  in  the U.S. state of  हवाई  .
The  राज्य  capital , Honolulu , is  on  Oahu 's southeast coast .
सहित  small close-in offshore islands such  as  Ford Island and the islands in Kaneohe Bay and off the eastern ( windward ) coast , it has a  कुल   जमीन  area of , making it the 20th largest island in the United States .
In the greatest dimension , this volcanic island is long  और  across  .
The length of the shoreline is .
The island is the result of  दो   पृथक  shield volcanoes : Waianae and Koolau , with  a  broad `` valley '' or  काठी  ( the  सेंट्रल  Oahu  मैदान  ) between  उन्हें  .
The highest point  is  Mt . Ka'ala in the Waianae  दायरा  , rising to  ऊपर  sea level  .
The base currency  of  the United States  is  the U.S.  डालर  , and is printed on bills in denominations of $ 1 , $  2   ,  $ 5 , $ 10 , $ 20 ,  $   50   ,  and $ 100 .
At  एक  time , however , U.S. currency included five  larger  denominations .
Notes  in   the  denominations  of  $ 500 , $ 1,000 , $ 5,000 , and $ 10,000 were printed for general  उपयोग  ,  और  a $ 100,000 note was printed for certain internal transactions .
British Honduras was  a  British colony  in  Central America .
in  1981 , the colony gained full  स्वतंत्रता  , and is now  the  independent nation of Belize .
First colonised  by  Spaniards in the  17th  century , the territory  on  the east coast of Central  अमेरिका  , south of  मैक्सिको  , became a British crown colony in 1862 .
In  1964  , it became a self-governing colony .
Belize became fully independent from the United  किंगडम  in 1981 .
बेलीज़  was the last continental possession of the  संयुक्त  Kingdom in the Americas .
Spelt , also known as dinkel wheat  ,  or hulled  गेहूं  ,  is   an   प्राचीन  species of  गेहूं  from  the   पांचवां  millennium BC .
Spelt  थी  an  महत्वपूर्ण  staple  in  parts  of   यूरोपीय   इससे  the Bronze  आयु  to medieval times ; it now survives as a relict crop in Central Europe and northern Spain and has found a new market as a health  खाना  .
Spelt is  sometimes   माना   a   subspecies  of the closely  सम्बन्धित  species common  गेहूं  ( T. aestivum ) , in which case  इसके   वनस्पति   नाम  is considered to be Triticum  aestivum   subsp  . spelta .
it  is a hexaploid  गेहूं  , which  अर्थात्   it  has six sets of chromosomes  .
Sherlock Holmes ( or  )  is a  fictional  detective  निर्मित   by  author and  चिकित्सक  Sir  आर्थर   कोनन  Doyle .
A London-based `` consulting  जासूस   ''  whose abilities border on the fantastic  ,  Holmes is famous  लिये  his astute  लॉजिकल  reasoning , his ability to adopt almost any disguise , and his use of  forensic  science  कौशल  to solve  मुश्किल  cases .
holmes  , who first appeared in publication in 1887 , was  प्रदर्शित   in  four  novels  and 56 short stories .
The first novel , A Study in Scarlet , appeared in Beeton 's Christmas Annual  in   1887  and the second , The Sign of the Four ,  in  Lippincott 's Monthly  पत्रिका  in  1890  .
The  अक्षर  grew tremendously  in  popularity with the first series of short stories in The Strand Magazine , beginning with A Scandal in Bohemia  in  1891  ;  further  श्रेणी   of  short stories  और  two novels published in  सीरियल  form appeared between then and  1927  .
The stories cover a period from around 1880  up  to 1914 .
All but four stories are narrated  by   holmes  's friend and biographer , Dr. John H.  वाटसन  ; two are narrated by  holmes  himself ( ``  the  Blanched Soldier `` and `` The Lion  's   माने  `` )  और  two others are written  in  the third  व्यक्ति  ( `` The  mazarin  Stone ``  और  `` His Last Bow `` ) .
in  two stories ( `` The Musgrave Ritual `` and  ``  The  ग्लोरिया  Scott `` )  ,  Holmes tells Watson the main story from his memories , while Watson becomes the narrator  of  the frame  स्टोरी  .
the  first and fourth novels , A  पढ़ाई  in Scarlet and  the  Valley of Fear , each include a long interval of omniscient  narration  recounting  कार्यक्रम  unknown to either Holmes or Watson  .
The  संयुक्त  States  हाउस  of Representatives is one of the two houses of the  संयुक्त   राज्य   कॉंग्रेस  (  a  bicameral  विधानमंडल   )   .
It is frequently  referred  to as the  हाउस  .
The other house is  the  Senate .
the   संयोजन  and powers of the  हाउस  are established  in  Article One of the United States Constitution .
The major  शक्ति  of  the  House  is  to  pass  federal legislation that affects  the  entire  देश   हालांकि   इसके  bills must  भी  be passed by the  सीनेट  and further agreed to  by   the  U.S.  अध्यक्ष  before becoming  विधि  ( unless both the House and  सीनेट  re-pass  the  legislation with  a  two-thirds majority in each chamber ) .
the  House has several exclusive powers :  the  power  to  initiate  आय  bills , to  impeach  officials , and to elect the U.S. President in case there is no majority in the Electoral College  .
Each U.S.  राज्य   is  represented in the House  in  proportion to its  जनसांख्यिकी  but is entitled to at least one representative .
the   सबसे  populous state , California  ,  currently  रै  53  प्रतिनिधि  .
The total number of voting  प्रतिनिधि  is fixed by law at 435 .
Each representative serves for a two-year term .
The Speaker of the United States  हाउस  of Representatives  ,  who presides over the  कक्ष  ,  is  elected by the members  of  the House ,  और  is therefore traditionally the leader of the House  लोकतांत्रिक  Caucus or the  हाउस  Republican Conference , whichever  पार्टी  has more voting members .
The House meets  in   the  south  wing  of the United States Capitol .
Jell-O is a brand name belonging  to  U.S.-based Kraft Foods for a  क्रमांक  of  जिलेटिन   desserts  ,  सहित  fruit gels  ,   puddings  and no-bake  मलाई  pies .
The brand 's popularity has led to it  होने  used  as  a generic term for  जिलेटिन   मिठाई   आरपार  the U.S.  और  Canada .
Kennywood is an amusement park located in West  mifflin  , Pennsylvania , a suburb of Pittsburgh .
the  park  पहला  opened in 1898  as  a  ``  trolley park  ''  attraction  at  the end  of  the Mellon family 's  monongahela  Street Railway .
the  park was purchased in  1906   by  F. W.  henninger   और  Andrew McSwigan and thus began the Kennywood Entertainment company  कि   रै  remained a closely held family business  लिये  over 100 years .
इस  traditional amusement park still  रै  structures and rides dating  वापस  to  इसके  opening and  the   जल्दी   1900s  .
Along with Rye Playland Park , it is one  of  only  दो  amusement parks listed  in  the National Register of Historic Places .
Kennywood is owned by Kennywood Entertainment Company ,  जिससे   जबतक  December 2007 was a closely  आयोजित  family  कारोबार  owned by the Henninger and  mcswigan  families .
Kennywood Entertainment is now operated by California-based  राजमहल  Entertainment , a subsidiary  of  Parques Reunidos  ,  an international amusement park company based  in  Madrid  ,  Spain  .
Parque Reunidos is in turn a subsidiary of Candover Investments  ,  an investment fund based  in  the UK .
a  Social Security card issued by the Railroad Retirement  फलक   in  1943 to a now deceased person .
In the United States , a  सोशल  Security number ( SSN ) is a nine-digit number  जारी  to U.S.  नागरिकों  , permanent residents  ,  and temporary ( working  )  residents under  खण्ड  205 ( c ) ( 2  )  of the Social Security Act  ,   संहिताबद्ध   as  .
The  क्रमांक   is  issued to an individual  by  the Social Security  प्रशासन  , an independent  एजेंसी  of  the  United  राज्य  government  .
Its  प्राथमिक   purpose   is  to  track  individuals for Social Security  उद्देश्य   .
A Social Security  क्रमांक  may be  प्राप्त   by  applying  on  Form SS-5 , ``  अनुप्रयोग  for A  सोशल  Security Number Card '' .
Minimalism describes movements in various forms of  आर्ट   और  design ,  विशेषकर  visual  आर्ट  and music , where the work is set out to expose  the  essence or identity of a subject through eliminating all non-essential forms , features or concepts .
Minimalism is  कोई  design  or  style in  जिससे  the simplest and fewest elements are  प्रयुक्त  to create the maximum effect .
As a specific movement in  the  arts  it  is  पहचाना  with  developments   in  post–World War II Western Art , most strongly with American visual arts in the 1960s and  जल्दी  1970s .
Prominent artists associated with this movement  शामिल  Donald Judd  ,   जॉन   mccracken  , Agnes  मार्टिन  , Dan Flavin ,  रॉबर्ट  Morris , Anne Truitt  ,  and  फ़्रैंक  Stella .
It is rooted  in  the reductive aspects of  modernism   ,  and is often interpreted  as  a reaction  विरूद्ध  Abstract  अभिव्यंजनावाद  and a bridge to Postminimal  आर्ट   practices  .
The terms  have  expanded to encompass a movement in music which  सुविधाएँ  repetition and iteration , as in the compositions of La  मोंटे  Young  ,   टेरी  Riley ,  स्टीव  Reich , Philip  कांच  , and John Adams .
Minimalist compositions are sometimes known  as   प्रणालियों  music .
The term `` minimalist '' is  प्रायः  applied colloquially to designate anything that is  अतिरिक्त   or  stripped  to  its  अनिवार्य  .
It has  भी   महरूम  used to describe the plays and novels of Samuel Beckett ,  the  films  of  Robert Bresson , the stories of Raymond Carver , and even the automobile designs of  कोलिन  Chapman .
The word was first used in English in  the  early 20th  सदी  to describe the Mensheviks  .
In chemistry and physics ,  डाल्टन  's law  (  also called Dalton 's  विधि   of  partial pressures ) states  कि  the total pressure  exerted  by  the   मिश्रण  of non-reactive gases is equal  to  the sum of the partial pressures  of  individual gases .
This empirical law was observed  by  John Dalton in 1801 and is related to the ideal gas  कानून  .
Mathematically ,  the  pressure of a mixture of gases can be  पारिभाषित  as the summation
or
जहाँ  represent the partial  दबाव  of each  घटक   .
It is assumed that  the   गैसों   do   नहीं  react with each other
where is the mole fraction of the  i-th  component in the total mixture of n  components  .
The  संबंध   नीचे   provides  a way to determine the volume based  विशेषज्ञता  of any individual gaseous component
where  is   the  concentration of the i-th component expressed  in  ppm  .
डाल्टन  's law  is   नहीं  exactly followed by real gases .
Those deviations are  considerably  large at high pressures .
in  such conditions , the volume  occupied  by the molecules  can  become  significant  compared to the free space between them .
In particular  ,  the short  औसत  distances between  अणुओं  raises the  तीव्रता  of intermolecular forces between gas molecules enough to substantially  बदलें  the pressure exerted by  उन्हें  .
Neither of those effects are considered  by  the ideal gas  मॉडल   .
This is a list of the largest  संयुक्त   राज्य  colleges and universities  by  enrollment  लिये  colleges and universities in the  संयुक्त  States .
What this list includes:
Colleges  और  universities within the United  राज्य
University systems if the system is  चलाएं   अंतर्गत  a single administration
Enrollment is the sum of the headcount of undergraduate and  ग्रैजुएट  students
Enrollment is  गिने  by the Integrated  post-secondary  Education System within the U.S. Department of Education .
नामांकन  is the 12-month  unduplicated   headcount  , indicating  the  number of unique students  जो   attended   the   विश्वविद्यालयों   दौरान   the  year .
What  इस  list  करता  not include:
Any indication of how many of the enrolled students  हैं  full or part time ( e.g. , some universities may  have   a  high enrollment , but have most students enrolled in  तभी  a single class )
For other  सूचियाँ   कि  measure university enrollment , see the  देखिए  Also section below .
`` Right Round '' is  a  song performed by American rapper  flo   rida  , released as  the  lead single  इससे  his  दूसरी  studio album  ,  R.O.O.T.S . ( 2009 ) .
The song features guest vocals  इससे  Kesha  .
it  was released to radio on 27 January  2009  and  थी  digitally released on 10 February by Poe Boy Entertainment and Atlantic  रिकॉर्ड  .
The  सोंग  lyrically speaks  of  Flo  rida  's  जाल  ball referee enthusiasm , while adapting  the  chorus of the 1984 Dead or Alive  सोंग  `` You Spin Me Round  (  Like a  रिकार्ड   )  `` in  इसके  hook .
According  to  one of the song  's  writers  ,  the chorus refers to oral sex .
Kesha  contributed  guest vocals to  the   सोंग  , but in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  दौरान  the run atop  the  chart  ,  Kesha was uncredited .
The song received mostly negative reviews from critics , who claimed it was kitsch and misogynistic .
However  ,  it was a commercial success , reaching  the  top  टेन  of the charts in nineteen  देशों  worldwide .
In the United States , it became  flo  Rida 's second number-one single and broke the record for first-week sales when  it   थी  released to digital retailers .
The  सिंगल  's  accompanying  music video was directed by Malcolm Jones and nominated for  an   एमटीवी  Video Music Award .
the   सोंग  has been used in several movies , such as The  hangover   ,  The Ugly Truth and  the   तेलुगु  movie Pilla  zamindar   .
In the movie Pitch Perfect , the song is performed by the a cappella group the Treblemakers .
The Chief Justice  of  the United  राज्य  is the head of the United States federal court system ( the  न्यायिक  branch  of  the federal government of the United States ) and the  मुख्य  judge of the  परम्  Court of the United States .
The Chief Justice  is   एक  of  नौ  Supreme  अदालत  justices ; the  अन्य  eight  हैं  the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of  the  United States .
From  1789  until 1866 , the office was known as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court .
The Chief Justice is  the  highest judicial officer in the country ,  और  acts as a  मुख्य  administrative officer for the federal courts and as head of  the  Judicial  सम्मेलन  of the United States  appoints  the director of the  प्रशासनिक  Office of  the   संयुक्त  States Courts  .
The Chief Justice  भी   serves  as a  प्रवक्ता  for the judicial branch .
The Chief  इंसाफ  leads  the  business of  the   परम्  Court .
He presides over oral arguments before the court .
When the court  renders  an opinion , the Chief Justice—when  in  the majority—decides who writes the court  's  opinion .
The  मुख्य   इंसाफ   भी  has significant agenda-setting power over the court 's meetings .
In the case of an impeachment of a President  of  the  संयुक्त  States ,  जिससे   रै  occurred twice , the Chief  इंसाफ  presides over the  विचारण  in the Senate .
In modern tradition , the Chief Justice has the ceremonial  ड्यूटी  of administering the oath of office of the President of the United States .
The first Chief  इंसाफ  was  जॉन   jay  .
The  17th  and current Chief  इंसाफ   is  John  G.  Roberts , Jr .
हिरण  near Prudhoe Bay , 1973
Prudhoe Bay Oil Field is a large oil field  on   अलास्का  's North  ढलान  .
it  is the largest  आयल   फ़ील्ड  in both the United  राज्य   और   in  North America  ,   covering  and originally containing approximately of oil  .
The amount  of  recoverable oil in  the  field is  अधिक  than double that of the next largest field  in  the United States , the East Texas oil field .
The field is  संचालित  by BP  ;   साझेदार  are ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips Alaska .
Labor unions are  legally  recognized as representatives of workers in many  उद्योग  in  the   संयुक्त  States  .
Their activity today centers on  सामूहिक  bargaining over wages , benefits  ,  and working conditions for their membership  ,  and on representing their  सदस्यों  in disputes with management over  उल्लंघनों  of contract provisions .
Larger unions also  typically  engage in  lobbying  activities and electioneering at the state and federal  स्तर  .
Most unions in America are aligned with one  of  two larger umbrella organizations : the AFL-CIO created in 1955 , and the Change to Win Federation which split  इससे  the AFL-CIO in 2005 .
Both advocate policies and  विधान  on behalf of  मजदूर  in the United  राज्य  and  कनाडा  , and  लो   an  active role  in  politics .
the  AFL-CIO is  विशेषकर  concerned with global trade issues .
In 2010 , the percentage of workers belonging to a union in the United States (  or  total labor union ``  घनत्व   ''  )  थी   11.4  % , compared to 18.4 % in Germany , 27.5 % in Canada  ,  and 70 % in Finland .
Union membership in the  निजी  sector has fallen  अंतर्गत  7 % — levels  नहीं  seen since 1932 .
संघ  allege that employer-incited opposition has  contributed  to this decline  in  membership .
the  most prominent unions  हैं  among public sector employees  ऐसे  as  शिक्षक  and police .
Members of  संघ  are disproportionately older  ,  male and  निवासियों  of the Northeast , the Midwest , and California .
Union workers  औसत  10-30  %  higher pay than non-union in  अमेरिका  after  controlling  for individual , job ,  और  labor market characteristics .
Although much smaller compared to  उनके  peak membership  in  the 1950s , American  संघ  remain a prominent political  फ़ैक्टर   ,   दोनो  through mobilization  of  their own memberships and through coalitions  साथ  like-minded activist  संगठन   around  issues such  as  immigrant rights , trade policy , health care , and living wage campaigns .
To fight  कथित  employer anti-union programs  ,  unions are currently advocating  नई   ``  card check `` federal  विधान  that would require employers to  सौदेबाजी  with a union if more than  50   %  of workers signed  फ़ॉर्म  , or `` cards ,  ''   stating  they  काश  to be  represented  by that union .
The current procedure involves waiting 45 to 90  दिनों  for a federally supervised secret-ballot employee  referendum  on the subject .
The  अर्थशास्त्री   जोसेफ  Stiglitz has  asserted  that ,  ``   दमदार   संघ  have  helped  to reduce inequality  ,   whereas  weaker  संघ   have  made it easier for CEOs , sometimes working  साथ  market forces  कि   वे   have  helped  आकार  , to increase it .  ''
The decline in unionization since WWII in  the  United  राज्य  has been associated with  a  pronounced rise in  आय   और  wealth inequality  .
A Christian Lacroix fashion boutique
A boutique  is  a small shopping outlet , especially one that specializes in elite and  फैशनेबल  items such as clothing and jewelry .
The word is French  लिये   ``  shop '' , via Latin from Greek ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ) , `` storehouse '' .
the  term entered into  रोज  English use in the late 1960s when , for  a  brief period , London  थी  the centre of the fashion trade .
carnaby   गली  and  the  Kings Road were the focus of much media attention as home to  the  most  फैशनेबल  boutiques of the  era  .
अभी  the East of London has  महरूम  regenerated and  अधिक  Boutiques pop  up   in  fashionable areas , such  as  Tower Bridge Road .
It can also refer to a specialised  कड़  such  as  a  बुटीक  investment bank  or  boutique law firm .
The word is often  प्रयुक्त  to describe a property in the independent section  of  the  होटल   मार्केट  ( such as The Rockwell in London  )   in   अनुक्रम  to distinguish  themselves  from larger chains ( such as Hilton Hotels ) .
In such  मामले  the  establishments  aim to convey the idea that the operation is  elite  and highly specialised .
in  the  strictest  sense  of  the word , boutiques would be one-of-a-kind but more  generally   बोलना  , some  जंजीरों  can  be  referred to as boutiques  if  they specialize in particular styles .
Recently , the term ``  बुटीक  '' has started  होने  applied to normally-mass-market items that are either niche or produced in  intentionally  small numbers at very high prices .
इस   may  be referred to  as  boutique  निर्माण  .
For example  ,  before the release of the  वी  , a Time Magazine  आलेख  suggested that Nintendo could become a ``  बुटीक  video-game company '' , producing games  लिये  niche  ऑडियंस  , rather than  trying  to compete directly with Microsoft and  सोनी  .
In the traditional  luxury-  watch industry Scalfaro International  is   माना  as the precursor  in  manufacturing and sale of  bespoke   घड़ियाँ   .
The  स्विस  company uses a  अत्यधिक  flexible boutique manufacturing site , which allows producing  छोटी  series or even unique timepieces  .
Although some  boutiques  specialise in  hand-made   वस्तुएं  and other truly one-of-a-kind items , others  बस  produce t-shirts , stickers , and other fashion accessories in artificially small runs and sell them at  unusually  high prices .
In  the   जल्दी  1990s Selena started manufacturing her own line of women 's clothing .
Opening two boutiques labeled as  ``  Selena Etc  .  Boutique &  सैलून  '' One  स्तिथ  in Corpus Christi and one located  in  San Antonio , Texas .
One was due to open in Monterrey  ,  Mexico ,  in  1995 but due  to   उसके  death it was not opened .
Around 1999  the  San Antonio location  बंद  and the Corpus Christi location was  बंद  in 2009  .
in  late 1990s some European retail traders developed the idea of tailoring a shop towards a lifestyle theme ,  in  the form of  ``  concept  स्टोर्स  '' , which specialised in cross-selling without using separate departments .
One of the first concept stores  थी   10  Corso Como in Milan , Italy followed by Colette in Paris and Quartier 206 in Berlin .
Several well-known American chains such as Urban  outfitters  , D-A-S-H , and  the  Gap , Australian chain Billabong and , though  कम   आम  , Lord & Taylor adapted to the concept store trend after 2000  .
Navy Federal Credit Union  (  or Navy Federal ) is  a  credit union headquartered in Vienna  ,  Virginia ,  चार्टर्ड  and regulated under the authority of  the  National Credit Union Administration  (  NCUA ) of the U.S.  संघीय   सरकारी  .
Navy Federal is the largest natural member ( or  खुदरा  ) credit union in the world ,  दोनो  in asset size and in membership .
As  of  September 2012 , Navy Federal had over $ 50 billion USD in assets ,  और  over 4 million members  .
Stevland Hardaway Morris ( born  may  13 , 1950  as  Stevland Hardaway  judkins  ) , known by his stage  नाम  Stevie Wonder , is an American singer ,  songwriter   ,  and multi-instrumentalist ,  a  child  prodigy   जो  developed into one of  the  most creative musical figures of the late 20th century  .
Blind since shortly after  जनम  ,  अचरज  signed  साथ   motown  's Tamla label at the  आयु   of   ग्यारह  , and continues  to  perform and  रिकार्ड  for  motown  to this day .
among  Wonder 's best  ज्ञात   works   हैं  singles such as `` Superstition `` , `` Sir Duke `` , `` You Are the Sunshine of My Life ``  और  `` I Just Called to Say  i  Love You  ``  .
Well known albums also include Talking Book , Innervisions and Songs in the Key of Life  .
He has recorded  अधिक  than thirty U.S. top ten  हिट्स  and received  twenty-two   ग्रैमी  Awards  ,  the most ever  awarded   to  a male solo artist .
Wonder is also noted for his work as an activist for political causes , including his 1980 campaign to make Martin Luther  किंग  , Jr. 's birthday a holiday  in  the United States .
in  2009 ,  अचरज   थी  named  a  United Nations Messenger of Peace .
In 2008  ,  Billboard magazine released a list of the  hot  100 All-Time Top Artists to celebrate the  us  singles chart 's fiftieth anniversary  ,  with Wonder at number  पाँच  .
By popular vote , Stevie was inducted  into  The SoulMusic Hall of  कीर्ति   at  SoulMusic.com  in  December 2012  .
मनस्ताप  ( from the Greek ψυχή  ``   psyche  '' , for mind/soul , and -ωσις `` -osis '' , for  असामान्य  condition or  derangement  ) refers to an abnormal condition of the mind , and is a generic psychiatric term for  a   दिमागी  state often described as involving a  ``  loss of contact with reality `` .
People suffering from psychosis are described as psychotic .
Psychosis  is  given to the  अधिक   कठोर  forms  of  psychiatric disorder , during which hallucinations  और  delusions , gross excitement or stupor and  impaired  insight may occur .
the  term  ``  psychosis '' is very broad and can mean anything  इससे  relatively normal aberrant experiences through to the complex and catatonic expressions of schizophrenia  और  bipolar type  1  disorder .
moreover  a wide variety of central nervous system diseases , from both external substances and internal  physiologic   बीमारी  , can produce symptoms of psychosis .
This  led  many professionals to say  कि  psychosis is  नहीं   विशिष्ट  enough as a diagnostic term .
Despite  इस  , `` psychosis  ''   is  generally given  to  noticeable deficits in normal behavior (  ऋणात्मक  signs  )  and more commonly to diverse types of hallucinations or delusional beliefs  (   e.g  . grandiosity , delusions  of  persecution ) .
Someone exhibiting very obvious signs may be described  as  ``  frankly   psychotic  '' , whereas one exhibiting very subtle signs could be  वर्गीकृत  in the category of an `` attenuated psychotic risk syndrome ''  .
An  excess  in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked  to  the positive  लक्षण  of psychosis  ,  especially those  of  schizophrenia  .
This is thought  to   occur  through  a  mechanism of aberrant salience of environmental  stimuli   .
Many  antipsychotic  drugs accordingly target the dopamine system ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled  ट्रायल  of  ये  drugs , however  ,  show either no  significant  difference between drug  और  placebo , or a very small effect size ,  suggesting  that the pathophysiology  of  psychosis is much more complex than an overactive dopamine system .
People experiencing psychosis may exhibit some personality changes and thought disorder .
Depending on its severity , this may  be  accompanied by unusual or bizarre behavior ,  as  well as difficulty with social interaction and impairment in carrying  आउट  daily  जीवन  activities  .
सामान्य  Grievous is a  fictional  character in the Star  युद्धों  universe .
A recurring antagonist  ,  he is the Supreme Commander of the Confederacy of Independent Systems , a political faction  of  planetary systems  waging  war on the Galactic  गणतंत्र  .
Trained in all  सात  forms of lightsaber combat  by  Count Dooku ,  he   is  a ruthless  और  powerful warrior devoted to  जेडी  's destruction during the Clone  युद्धों  .
His  अधिनियमों  of  wanton  aggression and high Jedi body count  होता  prompt  the  galaxy to give him the nickname the Knightslayer .
हालांकि  the notorious Jedi  slayer   थी  the being in  the  galaxy during the  क्लोन  Wars  जो  had killed the  सबसे  Jedi  in  single combat , he did not  संकोच   to  flee from battles  he  knew he would lose .
Statistics play an important role in  summarizing  baseball performance and evaluating players  in  the sport .
Since the flow of a baseball game  रै  natural breaks to it , and normally players act individually rather than performing in clusters , the sport lends itself  to  easy record-keeping and statistics .
Statistics have  महरूम  kept for professional baseball since the creation of the  नेशनल  League and American League  ,   अभी  part of Major League Baseball .
Many statistics are also available from outside of Major League Baseball , from leagues  ऐसे  as the National Association of Professional Base  बॉल   खिलाड़ी  and the Negro Leagues .
dorothea  Lange 's Migrant  माँ  depicts destitute pea pickers  in  California , centering on Florence Owens Thompson , age  32  , a mother of seven children , in Nipomo , California ,  कूच  1936 .
यूएसए  annual  रियल  GDP from  1910–60  , with the years of the Great Depression (  1929–1939  ) highlighted .
The unemployment rate in  the  US 1910–1960 ,  साथ  the  सालो  of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
The Great Depression was a severe worldwide economic depression in the decade preceding World War  ii   .
The  समय  of the  ग्रेट  Depression varied across nations , but in most countries it started in 1930  और  lasted until the  लेट  1930s or middle 1940s  .
it  was the  longest  , most widespread  ,  and deepest depression of the 20th century .
In the  21st   सदी  , the  ग्रेट   अवसाद   is  commonly used as an example of how far the world 's economy can decline .
the  depression originated in the U.S.  ,  after  the  fall in stock prices that  began  around September 4 , 1929 , and became  विश्वव्यापी  news with the  भण्डार   मार्केट  crash of  अक्तूबर   29  ,  1929  ( known as Black  मंगलवार  ) .
the  Great Depression had devastating  प्रभाव  in countries rich  और  poor .
Personal  आय  , tax  आय  ,  profits  and prices dropped , while international  व्यापार  plunged by more than 50  %  .
Unemployment in the U.S. rose to 25 % , and in some countries rose as high as  33  % .
Cities  सब  around the world were  hit  hard , especially those dependent  on  heavy industry .
Construction  थी  virtually halted in many countries .
Farming and rural areas suffered as crop prices fell by approximately 60  %  .
Facing plummeting  माँग  with few  वैकल्पिक   स्त्रोत  of  कार्य  , areas  निर्भर  on primary sector industries such as cash cropping  ,   खनन  and logging suffered  the  most .
Some economies started to recover by  the   mid-1930s  .
In many countries , the negative effects of the Great Depression  lasted  until  the  end of  संसार  War  ii  .
a  premature  ventricular  contraction  (  PVC ) , also known as  a  premature ventricular complex , ventricular premature contraction ( or  जटिल  or complexes  )  (  vpc  ) , ventricular  असामयिक  beat  (  VPB )  ,  or ventricular extrasystole  (  VES  )  , is a relatively common event where the heartbeat is initiated by Purkinje  मछली  in the  ventricles  rather than by the sinoatrial  नोड   ,  the normal heartbeat  initiator   .
The electrical events  of  the heart detected by the electrocardiogram allow a PVC to be  easily  distinguished from a normal heart beat .
a   पीवीसी   may  be  आभास  as a `` skipped beat `` or felt as palpitations in the chest .
in  a  सामान्य  heartbeat , the ventricles contract after the atria have helped  to  fill them by contracting ; in this way  the  ventricles can pump a maximized amount of blood both  to  the lungs and to  the  rest of the  देह  .
In a  पीवीसी  , the ventricles contract first  और  before the atria have optimally  भर  the  ventricles  with  रक्त  ,  जिससे   अर्थात्  that circulation is inefficient .
However , single beat PVC  arrhythmias  do not usually pose a danger and  can  be asymptomatic in healthy individuals .
William  गेरी   busey   (  born June 29 , 1944  )  , better known as Gary Busey , is an American  फिल्मी  and stage  कर्ता   ,  and artist  .
He has appeared in  a  variety of films , including Lethal Weapon ,  पाइंट  Break , and Under Siege , as  खूब  as guest appearances on Gunsmoke , Walker ,  टेक्सास  Ranger , Law & Order ,  और  Entourage  .
He was nominated for an  अकादमी  Award for Best  कर्ता  in 1978 for his  भूमिका  in The  दोस्त  Holly  स्टोरी   .
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ( ACTA ) ,  is  a multinational treaty for the purpose of  establishing  international standards for intellectual property  अधिकारों   प्रवर्तन  .
The agreement aims to establish  an   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  legal framework for targeting counterfeit goods , generic  दवाइयाँ  and copyright infringement on the Internet , and would create  a  new  शासी  body outside existing forums , such as the  संसार   व्यापार  Organization ,  the  World Intellectual Property Organization  ,  or  the  United  राष्ट्र  .
The  अनुबंध   थी  signed  in  October 2011  by   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , Canada , Japan , Morocco , New Zealand ,  सिंगापुर  , South  कोरियाई  , and the United States .
In 2012 , Mexico , the European Union and 22 countries  जिससे  are member states of the European Union  हस्ताक्षरित  as well .
One signatory  (  Japan ) has ratified ( formally approved )  the  agreement  ,  which would come  into   फ़ोर्स   in  countries that ratified  it  after ratification by six countries .
Supporters  have  described the agreement as a response to ``  the  increase  in  global trade of counterfeit goods  और  pirated copyright protected works  ''  .
ट्रेड  Unions representing workers in the music , film and TV industries and large intellectual property-based  संगठन  such as the Motion Picture Association of America and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America were active  in  the treaty 's development .
Opponents  कह  the  सम्मेलन   adversely  affects fundamental rights including freedom of expression and  गोपनीयता  .
ACTA has also been criticised by Doctors Without Borders for endangering  अभिगम  to medicines in  विकासशील  countries .
the  secret  प्रकृति  of negotiations has excluded civil society  समूह   ,  developing countries and the general public from the agreement  's  negotiation process and it has  महरूम  described as policy laundering by  आलोचकों  including the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Entertainment Consumers Association .
The signature of the  eu  and  अनेक   of  its  सदस्य  states resulted in  the  resignation in  विरोध  of the European  पार्लियामेंट  's appointed chief investigator , rapporteur Kader Arif , as well as widespread  विरोध  across  यूरोपीय  .
in  2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur , British  mep  David Martin , recommended against  the  treaty , stating : ``  the  intended benefits  of  this international agreement  हैं  far  outweighed  by the  संभावित  threats  to  civil liberties  ''  .
on  4 July 2012  ,  the European Parliament rejected the agreement in  plenary  session , with 478 voting against  the  treaty , 39 in favour and 165 MEPs abstaining .
faw  semi-trailer truck in China
Tractor with side dump  ट्रेलर   semi-trailer
A tractor with  an  auto-transport semi-trailer .
Semi-trailer truck with sleeper behind  the  cab  .
A semi-trailer truck is  an   articulated  vehicle that consists  of  a  towing  engine , known as a tractor in the  संयुक्त  States and truck in many other places , attached to one or more semi-trailers to carry freight .
it  is  भी  known as  a   हस्तांतरण  in Canada , prime  प्रस्तावक   in  Australia , semi , tractor-trailer ,  ट्रक  and trailer , transfer truck , 18-wheeler , mack truck , big rig in the United  राज्य  , or  artic  , short for articulated lorry , in Britain and  आयरलैंड  .
A semi-trailer  करता   नहीं   ट्रेल  completely behind the towing vehicle , but is attached at a point that is just forward of the rear-most axle of  the  towing unit .
This is done so that a fraction  of  the weight of the trailer is carried  by  the prime  प्रस्तावक  .
This arrangement means that both tractor and semi-trailer will  have  a distinctly different design than a rigid truck and trailer .
The Pittsburgh Steelers  हैं  a professional  फ़ुटबॉल  team based  in  Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania .
The team currently belongs to the North  प्रभाग  of the American Football Conference ( AFC  )  in  the  National  फ़ुटबॉल  League  (  NFL ) .
Founded in , the Steelers are  the  oldest  मताधिकार  in  the   afc  .
Pittsburgh has won more Super  कटोरी  titles  (   छह  ) , won more AFC  चैंपियनशिप  Games ( eight ) and played in ( fifteen ) and hosted  अधिक  ( eleven  )  conference championship games than  कोई   अन्य  AFC or NFC  टोली  .
The Steelers  share  the record for  सबसे   सुपर  Bowl appearances with the Dallas  cowboys  ( eight  )  .
The Steelers won  उनके  most recent championship , Super Bowl XLIII , on February 1 , 2009 .
The Steelers were founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates on  जुलाई  8 , 1933 , by Art Rooney , taking its original name from  the  baseball team of the same  नाम  , as  थी  common practice for NFL teams to do  at  the  समय   .
The  स्वामित्व   of  the Steelers has remained  भीतर  the Rooney family since its  founding   .
The  वर्तमान   मालिक  is Art 's son ,  डान  Rooney , who  रै   दिए  much control of the franchise  to  his son Art Rooney II  .
Long one of the NFL 's  फ्लैगशिप  teams  ,  the  स्टीलर्स  enjoy a  विशाल   ,  widespread  fanbase  nicknamed Steeler  स्वदेश  .
The Steelers currently play their  घर  games at Heinz Field on Pittsburgh 's  उत्तर  Side in the North Shore neighborhood , which also hosts the University of Pittsburgh Panthers .
Built in 2001 , the  स्टेडियम  replaced Three Rivers Stadium  जिससे  hosted the  स्टीलर्स  for 31 seasons .
Prior to Three Rivers ,  the  Steelers had  निभाई  their games in Pitt Stadium and Forbes Field .
Three different  kinds  of wheat and rye flour
आटा  is a powder which is made by grinding cereal  दाने  ,  or  other  बीज  or roots (  जैसे  Cassava ) .
It is the  प्रमुख  ingredient  of  bread , which is a staple food for  अनेक  cultures , making  the  availability  of  adequate supplies of flour  a  major economic and political issue at various times throughout history  .
Wheat flour is one of the most important foods in European ,  उत्तर  American , Middle Eastern  ,  Indian and North  अफ़्रीकी  cultures  ,  and  is   the  defining  संघटक   in   सबसे   of   उनके   शैलियाँ  of breads and pastries .
While wheat  is  the most  आम  base for flour , corn flour  रै  been important  in   mesoamerican  cuisine since ancient times , and remains  a  staple throughout the Americas .
rye   आटा  is an important constituent  of  bread in much  of  central Europe  ,  and rice can also be  प्रयुक्त  in flour , though this is relatively uncommon .
Heart rate is the number  of   heartbeats  per unit of time , typically expressed as beats per  मिनट  (  bpm   )  .
Heart rate  can  vary as  the   देह  's need to absorb oxygen and excrete carbon dioxide changes , such as during  शारीरिक   कसरत   ,  sleep  ,  illness , or as a result of ingesting drugs :
Central nervous system stimulants such  as  amphetamines  बढ़ाएँ  heart  रेट  .
Central nervous system depressants  or   sedatives  decreases the heart  रेट  ( apart from  कुछ   विशेषकर   अजीब   ones  with  बराबर  strange effects  ,  such as  केटामाइन   जिससे  can cause - amongst many other things - stimulant-like effects such as tachycardia  )  .
There are many ways in which the heart rate speeds up or slows  bas  .
Most  involve  stimulant-like endorphins and hormones being released in the  दिमाग  ,  अनेक  of which are  those  that  हैं  'forced'/'enticed ' out by the  ingestion  and processing of drugs .
Due to individuals having a constant blood volume , one of the physiological  तरीके   to  deliver  अधिक   ऑक्सीजन  to an organ is to increase heart rate  to   परमिट  blood to pass  by  the  अंग  more often .
Normal resting heart  दरों  range from 60-100 bpm  .
Bradycardia is  पारिभाषित  as a resting heart rate below 60 bpm .
However ,  दिल  rates from 50 to 60 bpm are common among healthy people and do not  necessarily   आवश्यकता  special  ध्यान  .
Tachycardia is defined as a resting heart rate  ऊपर   100  bpm ,  हालांकि   persistent  rest  दरों   between  80-100 bpm , mainly if  वे   हैं  present  दौरान  sleep  ,  may be signs of hyperthyroidism  or   रक्ताल्पता  ( see below  )   .
Catherine II 's carved , painted and  gilded  Coronation  कोच   (  Hermitage Museum )
A carriage  is  a  wheeled  vehicle for people , usually  horse-drawn  ; litters  (  palanquins ) and sedan chairs are excluded  ,  since  वे   हैं  wheelless vehicles .
The carriage is especially designed for private passenger use and  लिये  comfort or  लालित्य  , though some are also used to transport goods  .
It  may  be light  ,   smart  and fast or heavy , large and comfortable .
Carriages  सामान्यतः  have suspension using  पत्ता  springs , elliptical springs ( in the 19th  सदी   )  or leather strapping .
A public passenger vehicle  होता  not usually be called a carriage – terms  लिये  such include stagecoach , charabanc  और   omnibus  .
Working vehicles such as the ( four-wheeled  )   वैगन  and ( two-wheeled )  कार्ट   share  important parts of the history of the  carriage   ,  as  is  the fast ( two-wheeled  )  chariot .
The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake was an undersea megathrust earthquake  कि  occurred at 00:58:53 UTC on Sunday  ,  26 December 2004 ,  साथ  an epicentre off the west coast of Sumatra , Indonesia .
The quake itself is known by  the   वैज्ञानिक  community as the Sumatra–Andaman earthquake  .
The  resulting   सुनामी  was given various names , including  the  2004  भारतीय   समंदर  tsunami , South Asian tsunami , Indonesian  सुनामी   ,  and the Boxing  दिन  tsunami .
the  earthquake was caused by subduction  और   triggered  a series  of  devastating tsunamis along the coasts of most landmasses bordering the Indian Ocean , killing over 230,000 people  in  fourteen countries , and  inundating   तटीय  communities with waves up to high .
It was one of the deadliest natural disasters in recorded history .
इंडोनेशिया   थी  the  hardest-hit  country  ,  followed by Sri  लंका   ,  India  ,  and Thailand .
With a magnitude  of  Mw 9.1–9.3  ,  it is the  तीसरा  largest earthquake ever recorded on a seismograph  .
the  earthquake had the longest duration of faulting ever observed , between 8.3 and  10  minutes .
It caused the  संपूर्ण   ग्रह  to vibrate as much as and triggered other earthquakes as far  दूर  as  अलास्का  .
इसके  epicentre was between Simeulue  और  mainland Indonesia .
The plight of the affected people and countries prompted  a  worldwide humanitarian response .
in  all ,  the   विश्वव्यापी   जातियाँ   दान  more than $ 14 billion ( 2004  us  $ )  in  humanitarian  सहायता  .
भाप  rising from the Nesjavellir Geothermal  शक्ति  Station  in  Iceland .
Geothermal energy is thermal energy  उत्पन्न   और  stored in the Earth .
Thermal  उर्जा  is the energy  कि  determines  the  temperature  of  matter .
The  geothermal  energy  of  the Earth 's crust originates from the original formation of the planet ( 20 %  )  and from radioactive  क्षय  of minerals  (  80 % )  .
the   geothermal  gradient , which is the  अंतर  in temperature between the core of the planet and its surface , drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the  रूप  of  ऊष्मा  from the core to the surface .
The adjective geothermal  originates  from the Greek roots γη  (  ge ) ,  अर्थ   धरती  , and θερμος  (  thermos )  ,  meaning hot .
At the core of the  धरती  ,  थर्मल  energy is created by radioactive decay  और  temperatures may reach  over  5000 °C ( 9,000 °F  )  .
Heat conducts from the core to surrounding cooler rock .
The  ऊँची   तापमान  and  दबाव   कारण  some rock to melt ,  बनाना   मैग्मा  convection upward since it  is   हल्का  than the solid rock .
the  magma heats rock and water in the  क्रस्ट  , sometimes up to 370 °C (  700   °f  ) .
From hot springs , geothermal energy has been used for bathing since Paleolithic  टाइम्स  and for space heating  चूंकि  ancient Roman times , but it  is  now better  ज्ञात  for  विद्युत  generation .
Worldwide , about 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of  geothermal  power is  ऑनलाइन   in  24 countries  .
An additional 28  gigawatts  of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating , space heating ,  स्पा  , industrial  प्रक्रियाओं  , desalination and  agricultural  applications .
Geothermal power is cost effective , reliable  ,  sustainable , and environmentally friendly ,  लकिन  has historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries .
हाल   technological  advances have dramatically expanded the  दायरा  and  आकार  of viable resources , especially  लिये  applications such as home heating  ,  opening a potential for widespread exploitation  .
geothermal  wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth ,  लकिन  these  emissions  are  much   निम्नतर  per energy unit than those of fossil fuels .
As a result  ,  geothermal power has the potential to  सहायता  mitigate global  वार्मिंग  if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels .
The Earth  's  geothermal resources are theoretically  अधिक   than  adequate to supply  मानवता  's  उर्जा  needs , but only  a  very  छोटी  fraction  may  be profitably  शोषित  .
Drilling and  खोजी  for deep resources is very expensive .
Forecasts for the  भविष्य   of  geothermal power depend on assumptions about technology , energy prices , subsidies , and interest rates .
पायलट  programs like EWEB 's customer opt  in  Green Power  कार्यक्रम   दिखाएँ  that customers would be willing  to  pay a little more for a  बेदर्दी  energy  सोर्स  like geothermal .
लकिन  as a result of government  assisted   शोध  and industry experience , the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over  the  past  दो   दशकों   .
In 2001 , geothermal energy cost between two and ten  सेंट  per kwh .
The term  घन  foot is an Imperial and US  प्रथागत   (  non- metric ) unit of volume , used in the United States and  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom  .
It  is   पारिभाषित  as the volume  of  a cube with sides of one foot (  0.3048   m   )  in  लंबाई  .
to  calculate cubic feet multiply length X  चौडाई  X height .
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern Vietnamese pronunciation : , Southern Vietnamese  उच्चारण  : ) ; 19  may   1890  – 2 September 1969 ) , born Nguyễn Sinh Cung  और  also known as Nguyễn Tất  thành  and Nguyễn Ái  quốc  , was  a  Vietnamese communist  क्रांतिकारी  leader who  थी  prime minister ( 1945–1955 ) and president ( 1945–1969  )  of the  लोकतांत्रिक  Republic  of   वियतनाम   (  North Vietnam  )  .
He was a key figure in the foundation of the Democratic Republic of  वियतनाम  in 1945 , as well as the People’s Army of Vietnam ( PAVN )  और  the Việt Cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the Vietnam War .
He led the Việt Minh independence  गति   इससे  1941 onward , establishing the  कम्युनिस्ट  -ruled Democratic  गणतंत्र   of  Vietnam  in  1945  और  defeating the  फ्रेंच  Union in  1954  at  the  battle of Điện Biên Phủ .
He officially  stepped   bas   इससे   शक्ति  in 1955  due   to   स्वास्थ्य  problems , but remained a highly visible figurehead and  प्रेरणा  for those Vietnamese fighting  लिये  his cause—a united ,  कम्युनिस्ट  Vietnam—until his death .
After the war , Saigon , capital of the  गणतंत्र  of Vietnam  ,   थी   renamed  Hồ  chí  Minh City  .
सब  Roads Lead Home is a  विशेषता  film released on  सितंबर  26 , 2008 .
निर्देशित  by Dennis Fallon , it stars Peter Boyle ,  patton  Oswalt  ,  Jason London  ,  Vivien  cardone   ,  Vanessa Branch , Peter Coyote , Stephen Milton , and Allan Kayser  .
The movie  थी  filmed in and  around   कान्सास  City , Missouri .
the  movie made its World Premiere January 27  at  the Santa Barbara International Film  पर्व  .
The film has  भी  recently been in several  फिल्मी  festivals , and has  प्राप्त  bad reviews  .
पीटर   बॉयल  died before the movie 's release  .
it  was the last movie he appeared in .
Sales taxes  in  the United States are taxes  लगाई   on  the sale or lease of goods and services in the  संयुक्त  States  .
While no national general sales tax exists ,  the   संघीय   सरकारी  levies several national selective sales  कर   on   the   बिक्री   or  lease  of  particular goods and services .
furthermore  ,  forty-five  states , the District of Columbia , and Guam impose general sales taxes  कि  apply  to  the sale or lease of most goods  और  some services , and states also  may  levy selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods or services .
States may also delegate to local governments the authority to impose  अतिरिक्त  general or selective sales  कर   .
Sales  कर  is  गणना  by multiplying the purchase price by  the   लागू  tax rate .
Tax rates vary widely by jurisdiction and range from less  than   1  % to over 10 % .
Sales tax is collected  by  the seller at the time of sale .
Use  कर  is  स्वः  assessed by  a   खरीदार  who has not  सशुल्क  sales tax  on  a taxable purchase .
Unlike the value added tax , a sales tax is  imposed   तभी  once , at the retail level .
However , in cases  जहाँ  items  हैं  sold at retail more than once ,  ऐसे   as   प्रयुक्त  cars  ,   the  sales tax can be charged on the same item  indefinitely  .
The definition of retail sales  और  what goods and services are taxable vary among the states  .
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous  श्रेणी  of goods and services that  हैं   exempt  from sales tax , or taxed at reduced  दरों  .
The purchase of goods for further manufacture or for resale  is  uniformly exempt  इससे  sales tax .
Most jurisdictions  exempt   खाना  sold in grocery  स्टोर्स  , prescription medications , and many agricultural supplies .
Sales taxes , including those  imposed  by local governments , are generally administered at  the  state level .
States imposing  बिक्री  tax require retail sellers to collect tax from customers ,  संचिका  returns , and remit the tax to the state  .
Procedural rules vary widely  .
Sellers generally  जरूर  collect tax from in-state purchasers unless  the  purchaser provides an exemption certificate .
Most  राज्य  allow  or  require  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   remittance  .
A central processing unit ( CPU  )  , also referred to as a central  प्रोसेसर  unit , is the hardware within a computer  कि   carries  out  the   निर्देश  of a computer program  by  performing the basic  अंकगणितीय  , logical ,  और  input/output operations of the system .
The term has been in use  in  the computer industry at  तनिक   चूंकि   the  early 1960s .
the  form ,  डिज़ाइन  , and implementation of CPUs  have  changed over  the  course of their history , but their fundamental  आपरेशन  remains much the same  .
A computer can have more than one CPU ; this is called multiprocessing .
कुछ   एकीकृत   circuits  ( ICs )  can  contain multiple CPUs on  a  single chip ; those ICs are called multi-core processors .
Two typical  components   of  a CPU are the arithmetic logic unit  (   alu   )  , which performs  गणित  and logical  परिचालन  , and the control unit  (  CU ) , which extracts instructions from memory and decodes and executes  उन्हें   ,   कॉलिंग  on the ALU when necessary .
Not  सब  computational systems rely on  a  central processing unit .
An array processor or vector processor has  अनेक  parallel computing  तत्व  , with  no  one unit considered the `` center ''  .
In  the  distributed computing model , problems are solved  by  a distributed interconnected set of processors .
rfid  chip next to  a  grain of rice .
This  चिप  contains  a  radio-frequency electromagnetic field  कुंडली  that modulates an external magnetic field to  ट्रांसफ़र  a  coded   पहचान  number when queried  by  a reader device .
This small type  is  incorporated in consumer products , and implanted  in  pets , for  पहचान  purposes .
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID )  is  the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to  ट्रांसफ़र  data , for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking  टैग   संलग्न  to  वस्तुएँ  .
the  tags  contain   electronically   भंडारित  information  .
Some tags are powered and read  at  short ranges  (   a   few  meters ) via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic induction ) .
Others use  a  local  शक्ति  source  ऐसे  as a battery , or else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating EM field  ,  and then act as  a  passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio  लहरें  ( i.e. ,  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक   विकिरण   at  high  बारंबारता  ) .
Battery powered tags may operate at hundreds of meters .
नापसंद  a bar code , the tag  करता  not necessarily  need  to  be  within  लकीर  of sight of the reader , and may be embedded in the tracked object .
rfid  tags are used in  अनेक   उद्योग  .
An RFID tag  संलग्न   to   an  automobile during production can be  प्रयुक्त  to track its progress through the assembly line .
दवाएँ  can be tracked through  warehouses  .
पशुधन  and pets may have tags  injected   ,  allowing  धनात्मक   पहचान   of   the  animal .
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing ,  possessions  , or even implanted within people , the possibility of  पढना   personally-linked  information  बगैर  consent has raised privacy concerns  .
Overtime is the amount  of   समय   किसी  works  परे  normal working hours  .
Normal  घंटों   may  be determined in several  रास्ताs:
by custom ( what is considered healthy  or  reasonable by society ) ,
by practices of a given trade or profession,
by legislation,
by agreement between employers and workers  or  their  प्रतिनिधि  .
Most nations  have   ओवरटाइम  labor laws designed  to  dissuade or prevent employers from forcing their employees  to  work excessively long hours .
ये  laws may take into account other  considerations  than the humanitarian , such as preserving the health of workers so that they may continue to be productive , or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy .
एक   आम   दृष्टिकोण   to  regulating overtime is to  आवश्यकता  employers to pay workers  at  a  उच्चतर   hourly  rate for overtime work .
Companies may  चुनें  to pay workers higher overtime pay even if not obliged  to   do  so by  विधि   ,  particularly if they  मानना  that they face a backward bending supply curve of  श्रमिक  .
Overtime  अदा  rates can cause  मजदूर   to  work longer hours than they would at a  चपटा  hourly rate .
Overtime laws  ,  attitudes toward  ओवरटाइम   और  hours of work vary  greatly  from country  to  country and between  अलग  economic sectors .
Visualization of links between  पृष्ठों  on a wiki using a force-directed layout .
force-directed   आलेख  drawing algorithms  हैं  a class of  algorithms  for  आरेखण   रेखाचित्र   in  an  aesthetically  pleasing way .
Their purpose is  to  position the nodes of a  आलेख  in two-dimensional or  three-dimensional   स्पेस   so  that all the edges  हैं   of  more or  कम  equal length and there are  as  few crossing edges as possible  ,  by  assigning  forces  among  the set of edges and the  नियत   of   नोड   ,  based on their relative  स्थितियाँ  , and then using these  शक्तियां  either to simulate the motion of the edges  और  nodes or to minimize  उनके  energy .
While graph drawing  can  be a difficult problem , force-directed algorithms , being physical simulations , usually require no special knowledge  परिचय  graph  सिद्धान्त   ऐसे  as  planarity  .
Purchasing  शक्ति   (  sometimes retroactively called adjusted for inflation ) is the amount of goods or services that can be purchased with a unit of currency  .
For example , if  तुम   था  taken one dollar  to  a  स्टोर  in the 1950s , you would have been able  to  buy a greater number of items than you  होता  today , indicating that you would have had  a  greater purchasing power in the 1950s  .
करेंसी  can be either a commodity  धन   ,  like  सुनहरा   or  silver , or fiat currency , or  free-floating  market-valued currency  जैसे  US  डॉलर  .
as  Adam  स्मिथ  noted , having money  देता  one the  क्षमता  to `` command ''  अन्य  ' labor , so purchasing power to some extent is power over other people , to the extent  कि  they are  willing  to trade their labor or  goods   लिये  money or currency .
If one 's monetary income stays  the   वही  , but the price level increases  ,  the purchasing power of that  आय  falls .
Inflation does not  सदा  imply falling purchasing power  of  one  's  money income since  it   may  rise faster than the  दाम  level .
A higher  रियल  income means a higher  खरीदना  power since real income refers to the income adjusted for inflation .
For a  दाम   अनुक्रमणिका   ,  its value in the base  साल  is  प्रायः   सामान्यीकृत  to  a  value  of   100   .
The purchasing  शक्ति  of a  ईकाई  of  करेंसी  ,  कह  a dollar , in a  दिए  year  ,  expressed in dollars  of   the  base year , is 100/P  ,  where  p  is the price index in that year .
So  ,  by definition  the  purchasing power  of  a dollar  decreases  as the price level rises .
The purchasing power in today  's   धन   of   an  amount C of money , t years into the future , can be computed with  the  formula for the present value :
where in this case i is an assumed future  सालाना  inflation rate .
Education in South Korea is viewed as being crucial for  कामयाबी  and competition is consequently very heated and fierce .
A  सेंट्रल  administration oversees the process for the education of children from kindergarten to the third and final year of high school .
Mathematics  ,   विज्ञान  , Korean , English , and social studies are generally  माना   to  be the most  महत्वपूर्ण  subjects .
Normally physical education is not considered important as it is not recognised  ,  by the  generally  academic elitist  दक्षिण  Korean  populace  ,  as  education and therefore many schools lack high-quality gymnasiums and  varsity  athletics .
South Korea was the  पहला  country in the  संसार  to provide high-speed internet access to all primary ,  जूनियर  , and high schools .
Although South  कोरियाई  students  प्रायः  rank  अत्यधिक  on  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  comparative assessments when compared  to  students of most Western education systems  ,  the  दक्षिण   कोरियाई  education system is  criticised  for emphasising too  much  upon passive learning  और  memorisation .
The South  कोरियाई  education  प्रणाली  is rather  notably  strict and  overly  structured as compared to its counterparts in  सबसे  Western societies .
भी  , the prevalence of non-school  for-profit   निजी   संस्थान  such as academies or cram-schools ( Hagwon [ 학원 ]  )  ,  जिससे  too emphasise on passive memorisation , as opposed to conceptual understanding ,  in  students are criticised  as  a  प्रमुख   सोशल   प्रॉब्लम   .
The My Lai Massacre ( ,  ;  , ,  or  ) was the Vietnam War mass murder of between  347  and 504 unarmed civilians  in   दक्षिण   वियतनाम   on  March 16 , 1968 , by United States Army soldiers of  ``  Charlie ''  कम्पनी  of 1st Battalion  ,  20th  infantry  Regiment , 11th Brigade of  the   americal   प्रभाग  .
Victims included  महिलाओं  , men ,  children  , and  infants  .
Some of the women were gang-raped and their bodies  यहूद  later found to  be  mutilated  और  many  महिलाओं  were  allegedly  raped  prior  to the killings .
जबकि  26  u.S.  soldiers were initially charged with criminal offenses for their actions at  mỹ  Lai ,  तभी  Second  लेफ्टिनेंट   विलियम  Calley , a platoon  नेता  in Charlie Company , was convicted .
मिला  guilty of killing  22  villagers ,  he  was originally given a life  वाक्य  , but only served three and a half years under house arrest  .
The  नरसंहार  took  प्लेस  in the hamlets  of  My Lai and My  khe   of   बेटे  My  गाँव  .
the   इवेंट  is also  ज्ञात   as  the Son My Massacre ,  विशेषकर  in  the  Vietnamese  राज्य  media  .
The U.S. military codeword for the `` Viet Cong stronghold  ''   थी  `` Pinkville '' .
The incident prompted global outrage when it became public knowledge in 1969 .
The massacre also increased domestic opposition to  the  U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War .
तीन   u.S.  servicemen who had tried to halt the  नरसंहार  and protect  the   wounded  were  initially  denounced by several  u.s   .  Congressmen as traitors .
They received  नफ़रत   मेल  and death threats and found  mutilated  animals  on  their doorsteps .
The three were later widely praised and decorated by the  फौज  for their heroic actions .
the  hijackers in the  सितंबर   11  attacks were 19 men affiliated with al-Qaeda , and 15 of the 19  यहूद  citizens of  सऊदी  Arabia  .
Others were from Egypt , Lebanon  ,  and the UAE .
The  hijackers  were organized  into  four teams , each led  by  a pilot-trained hijacker with four `` muscle hijackers '' who were trained  to   सहायता  subdue the pilots , passengers , and crew .
The first hijackers to arrive in  the  United States were Khalid al-Mihdhar and  nawaf  al-Hazmi , who  settled  in the San Diego area  in   जनवरी   2000  .
वे  were  followed   by  three  hijacker-pilots  , Mohamed Atta  ,  Marwan al-Shehhi , and  ziad  Jarrah  जल्दी  in  the  summer of 2000 to undertake flight training in south Florida  .
The fourth hijacker-pilot , Hani  hanjour  , arrived  in  San Diego in December  2000  .
The rest  of  the `` muscle hijackers '' arrived in the spring  और  early  गर्मियाँ  of 2001 , just  महीने  before the September 11 attacks  .
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( )  (  circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ) , also transliterated  as  Muhammad ( ) , was  a  religious ,  राजनैतिक  ,  और   सैन्य  leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into  a   सिंगल  religious polity under Islam .
He is believed by  मुसलमान  and  bahá'ís   to  be a  मेसेंजर  and prophet of God .
Muhammad is almost universally considered by Muslims as the last prophet  भेजा  by  परमेश्वर  for mankind  .
Non-Muslims regard Muhammad as the founder of Islam .
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered original monotheistic  आस्था  of Adam , Noah , Abraham , Moses , Jesus  ,   और  other prophets .
Born in about 570  ce  in the  arabian  city of Mecca , he was  अनाथ   at   an  early age and brought  up  under  the  care of  उसके  uncle Abu Talib .
He later worked mostly as a  व्यापारी   ,   as  well as a shepherd , and was first married by age 25  .
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding  kyu  for several nights of seclusion and prayer  ,  he later reported that it was there , at  आयु  40 ,  कि  he received his  पहला   रहस्योद्घाटन  from God .
Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly , proclaiming that `` God is One `` , that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit .
islām  )  is the only  रास्ता  ( dīn  )  acceptable  to   परमेश्वर  , and  कि  he himself was a  नबी  and  मेसेंजर  of God , in the same vein as other Islamic  नबियों  .
मुहम्मद   gained  few followers early on , and was met with hostility from some Meccan tribes ; he and his  अनुसरणकर्ता  were treated harshly .
to  escape persecution , Muhammad sent some of his followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers in  मक्का  migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622 .
This event , the Hijra  ,  marks the  शुरूआत  of the Islamic calendar ,  जिससे   is  also known as the  hijri  Calendar .
In Medina ,  मुहम्मद   संयुक्त  the tribes under the Constitution of  मदीना  .
After eight years  of  fighting with the Meccan tribes , his followers  ,  who  by  then had  grown  to  10,000  , took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful  conquest   of  Mecca .
He destroyed  the  pagan  मूर्तियों  in the city and  तब  sent his followers out to destroy all of the remaining  pagan  temples  in  Eastern Arabia .
In 632  ,   a  few months  बाद  returning to Medina from The Farewell  यात्राएं  , Muhammad fell ill and died .
By  the  time of his  मौत  , most of  the  Arabian  प्रायद्वीप  had converted to Islam ,  और  he had united Arabia into  a   सिंगल  Muslim religious polity .
The revelations ( or Ayah , lit  .
``  Signs [ of God ] '' ) —  जिससे  Muhammad reported  receiving  until  उसके  death –  रूप  the verses of the Quran , regarded by  मुसलमान  as the  ``  Word of God '' and around which the religion is based .
Besides the Quran  ,  Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and traditions ( sunnah ) are  भी  upheld by Muslims as the  स्त्रोत  of sharia law .
They discuss Muhammad and other prophets of Islam with  reverence  ,  adding  the phrase peace  be   upon  him whenever their names are mentioned .
While  conceptions  of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern times were largely negative , appraisals in modern history have been far less so .
This is a  सूची  of tables  of  the verified  oldest  people in the world in ordinal rank  ,  such as oldest person  or  oldest  man  .
In these tables , a supercentenarian is  माना  'verified ' if his or her  अर्जी  has been validated by an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  body that specifically deals in longevity research ,  ऐसे  as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records .
The longest unambiguously documented human lifespan is that of Jeanne Calment  of   फ़्रांस  ( 1875–1997 ) ,  जो   died  at age 122 years ,  164  days  .
She  मिले  Vincent van Gogh  जब  she  थी  12 or  13  .
This led to news  मीडिया  attention in 1985 , after Calment turned 110 .
subsequent   छानबीन  found documentation  लिये  Calment 's  आयु   ,  beyond any reasonable question , in the records of her native city  ,  Arles , France  .
More evidence of  calment  's lifespan has been produced than for any other supercentenarian  ;   उसके  case serves as  an  archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages  of  the world 's  oldest  people .
The longest undisputed lifespan  लिये   पुरूष   supercentenarians  is that of  jiroemon  Kimura , who currently lives in  जापानी  and is age as of .
Since the death of 115-year old Dina  manfredini  of the United  राज्य  , on 17 December 2012 ,  किमुरा  , born 19  अप्रैल  1897 , is the  oldest  living person in the world whose age can  be  documented  .
He has  भी  been the oldest living man since the death of 114-year old Walter  breuning  on 14 April  2011  .
Since the death of 115-year  बूढ़ा  Koto Okubo  of   जापानी  on  12  January 2013 ,  the  oldest living woman has been  -year-old  Misao Okawa , also from Japan , born  on  5 March  1898  .
This is a timeline of the African-American Civil  अधिकारों  Movement .
The Civil Rights movement was a  स्वतंत्रता  struggle by African Americans in  the   1950s  and  1960s   to  gain equality .
The  लक्ष्य  of the  गति  were freedom from discrimination , equal opportunity in  नियुक्ति  , education and  आवास  , the right to vote and equal access to  पब्लिक   सुविधाएं   .
Heavy metal  (  often referred to as metal ) is a genre of rock music that developed in the late 1960s  और  early 1970s , largely in  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom and in the United States .
With roots in blues rock  और  psychedelic rock , the bands  कि  created heavy metal developed a thick , massive  ध्वनि  , characterized  by  highly amplified  distortion  , extended guitar  solos  , emphatic  बीट्स  ,  और  overall loudness .
Heavy  मेटल  lyrics and performance styles are generally associated with masculinity  और  machismo  .
the   पहला  heavy metal  bands  such as Led  zeppelin   ,  Deep Purple and  ब्लैक   sabbath  attracted large audiences , though  वे  were often  derided  by critics , a  औकात   आम  throughout the  इतिहास  of the genre .
in  the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur  the  genre 's evolution by discarding much of its  ब्लूज़  influence ; Motörhead introduced a punk rock sensibility and  an  increasing emphasis on speed .
bands  in the New Wave of  अंग्रेजों  Heavy  मेटल  such as  आयरन  Maiden followed in a similar vein  .
पहले  the end of the decade , heavy  मेटल  fans  became  known  as  ``  metalheads  `` or `` headbangers ``  .
During the 1980s , glam metal became a commercial force with groups like  mötley   crüe  and  ज़हर  .
Underground scenes produced an array of  अधिक  extreme ,  आक्रामक   शैलियाँ  :  thrash   मेटल   broke  into the mainstream with bands such as Metallica , Megadeth , Slayer , and Anthrax ,  जबकि  other styles  of  the most extreme subgenres of  मेटल   जैसे  death metal and black metal remain  subcultural  phenomena .
Since the mid-1990s  ,  popular styles such as nu metal  ,  which often incorporates elements of  grunge  and hip  हॉप  ; and metalcore , which blends extreme metal with hardcore punk  ,  have further expanded the definition of the  विधा   .
The far-right ( also known  as  the extreme right  )  refers to  the  highest  उपाधि  of rightism in right-wing politics .
दूर  right politics  involves   support   of  strong or complete social hierarchy in society  ,  and supports supremacy of certain  individuals  or groups deemed to be innately superior or preferable who are to  be  more valued than those deemed to be  innately   अवर  or undesirable .
The far  सही  's  वकालत   of  supremacism is based on what its adherents perceive as innate characteristics of people  कि  can not be changed  .
This stands as a  पाइंट   of  difference  साथ  the centre-right  's  attribution of behaviours , such as laziness or decadence  ,  as the primary sources  of  social  inequalities  .
The centre right—unlike the  दूर  right—claims that people can end their behavioural inferiority  through   बदलना  their habits and choices  .
the   असली  far right ,  जिससे  emerged in  फ़्रांस   बाद  the French Revolution , refused to accept the French Republic and supported a  counter-revolution  to restore the  फ्रेंच   साम्राज्य  and aristocracy .
The far right  is   commonly  associated with persons or groups who hold extreme nationalist ,  xenophobic  , racist ,  धार्मिक   fundamentalist  or  प्रतिक्रियावादी  views .
The most extreme-right movements have pursued oppression and genocide against groups of people on the basis of their alleged  हीनता   .
थामस  Hobbes of Malmesbury  (   5  April 1588 –  4  December 1679 ) , in some  पुरानी  texts  थामस  Hobbs of Malmsbury , was an English philosopher  ,   बेहतरीन  known today for his  कार्य  on political philosophy .
उसके  1651 book Leviathan established the foundation for  सबसे  of Western political philosophy from the perspective of social contract  सिद्धान्त  .
Hobbes  थी  a champion of absolutism  लिये  the  sovereign  , but he also developed some of  the  fundamentals of European liberal thought : the right of the individual ; the  प्राकृतिक  equality  of  all men ; the  कृत्रिम  character  of  the political order ( which led to the later distinction  between  civil society  और  the  राज्य  ) ; the view that all legitimate  राजनैतिक  power must be `` representative '' and based on the  सहमति  of the people  ;  and a liberal interpretation of law which leaves people free  to  do whatever the law does not explicitly  forbid   .
He was  एक  of the founders  of  modern political philosophy .
उसके  understanding  of  humans as  होने  matter and motion ,  obeying  the same physical laws as other matter and motion  ,   remains  influential ;  और  his account of  इंसान   प्रकृति  as self-interested cooperation , and of political  समुदायों  as being based  upon   a  `` social contract  ``  remains one  of  the major topics of political philosophy .
In addition to political philosophy , Hobbes also contributed to  a   विविध  array of other fields ,  सहित  history , geometry , the physics of gases  ,  theology , ethics  ,  and general philosophy  .
Emotional intelligence ( EI ) is the ability to identify  ,  assess ,  और  control the emotions of oneself , of others , and of groups .
it  can be divided into ability EI  और   trait  EI .
क्षमता  EI is usually measured using maximum  प्रदर्शन   परीक्षण  and has  stronger  relationships with traditional intelligence , whereas  trait  EI is usually measured using self-report questionnaires and has stronger relationships with personality  .
Criticisms have centered  on  whether EI is  a  real intelligence  और  whether it has incremental validity over  iq  and the Big  पाँच  personality  traits  .
Heredity is the passing of traits to offspring from  इसके  parents  or  ancestor .
इस   is  the process by which an offspring cell or organism  acquires  or becomes predisposed to the characteristics  of   इसके   जनक  cell  or   सजीव  .
Through heredity , variations exhibited  by  individuals can accumulate and cause  कुछ  species to evolve .
the  study of heredity  in   जीवविज्ञान  is called genetics , which  शामिल  the field of epigenetics .
For United States individual income tax , adjusted  सकल  income ( AGI  )   is  total gross income minus specific reductions .
Taxable income  is  adjusted gross income minus  भत्तों   लिये  personal exemptions and itemized deductions .
For  सबसे  individual  कर  purposes , AGI is more relevant than  सकल  income .
Gross income  is  sales price of  goods  or property , minus cost  of   the  property  बेची  , plus other  आय   .
It  शामिल  wages , interest ,  dividends   ,  business income ,  rental   आय  , and  सब  other types  of  income .
समायोजित   सकल  income is  सकल  income less  deductions  from a business or  rental  activity and 21 other specific items .
Several deductions  (  e.g . medical expenses  और  miscellaneous itemized deductions ) are limited based on a percentage of  agi  .
निश्चित  phase outs , including those of lower tax rates and itemized deductions , are based on  स्तर   of  AGI .
अनेक  states base  राज्य  income tax on AGI with certain deductions .
`` Lazy Eye '' is  the   तीसरा  single from  silversun  Pickups '  डेब्यू  album Carnavas .
the  band performed the song  on  the Late  दिखाएँ  with  दाउद  Letterman , The Tonight Show with Jay Leno  ,  Later With Jools Holland , and  पिछला  Call with Carson Daly .
The song is  a  playable track  on  Rock Band 2  और  Guitar Hero :  संसार  Tour .
an  alternate  संस्करण  of  the  song , with a length of 7:27 , was  निभाई  on XMU before  the   shorter  version was played on FM and other XM channels .
This version was featured on their  डेमो  CD ( which  प्रदर्शित  early versions of four tracks ) .
A telephone prefix is the first set  of  digits  of  a telephone number ; in the North American  क्रमांकन  Plan countries  (  country code 1 ) , it  is  the first  तीन  digits of a seven-digit phone number .
In other countries  दोनो  the prefix and the number may  have  different lengths .
it  shows which exchange  the  remaining numbers refer to .
a  full telephone  क्रमांक  is usually made up of  देश  code  (  required for international calls only  )  ,  क्षेत्रफल  code ( required  लिये  calls between telephone areas )  ,  prefix , and  सदस्य  number .
Some places  सीमित  certain prefixes to  फैक्स   संख्याएँ  or cell phones only ; in  अन्य  places such dedicated prefixes  हैं   नहीं  used  .
as  telephone  प्रौद्योगिकी  advanced  ,  the precise significance of the prefix became blurred in many places ; 485 in London , UK , was once the GULliver exchange , but now 44207485xxxx  is  just considered one of  अनेक  number blocks  परोसा  by the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange  ;  4420770703xx is another .
Metformin ( BP  ,  pronounced  ,   ;   originally  sold as Glucophage )  is  an oral antidiabetic drug in the biguanide  क्लास  .
It  is  the first-line  ड्रग   of  choice for the treatment of type 2 diabetes  ,  in  particular  , in overweight and obese  लोगों   और   those  with normal kidney function .
Its use in gestational diabetes has been limited by safety  चिंताएं   .
it  is  भी  used in the treatment of polycystic  ovary  syndrome ,  और   रै  been  investigated  for other diseases where  इंसुलिन  resistance may be an important factor .
Metformin works by  suppressing  glucose  उत्पादन  by the liver .
Metformin is the only antidiabetic  ड्रग  that  रै   महरूम   conclusively   दिखाया  to  prevent  the  cardiovascular  complications of diabetes .
It helps  reduce   ldl   कोलेस्ट्रॉल  and triglyceride levels ,  और  is not associated with  वज़न  gain  .
, metformin is one of only two oral  antidiabetics  in the World Health Organization Model  सूची  of Essential Medicines ( the  अन्य  being glibenclamide ) .
When prescribed appropriately , metformin causes few adverse effects  (  the  सबसे  common  is  gastrointestinal upset ) and is associated with a  कम  risk of hypoglycemia .
Lactic acidosis ( a  buildup   of  lactate in the blood ) can be a  गंभीर  concern in overdose and when it is prescribed to people  साथ  contraindications , but otherwise , there  is   no  significant risk .
First synthesized  और  found to reduce blood sugar in the 1920s , metformin  थी   forgotten  for the next two decades as research shifted to insulin and other antidiabetic drugs .
ब्याज  in  metformin  was rekindled  in  the late 1940s after several  रिपोर्ट्स   कि   it  could  reduce   रक्त  sugar levels in people , and  in  1957 , French physician Jean Sterne  प्रकाशित  the first clinical  विचारण   of  metformin as a  उपचार  for  मधुमेह  .
It was introduced to the United Kingdom in  1958  , Canada in 1972  ,  and the United States in 1995 .
Metformin is now believed to be  the  most widely prescribed antidiabetic drug in  the  world  ;   in  the United States alone  ,  more than 48 million prescriptions were filled in 2010  लिये  its  जेनेरिक   formulations  .
The Mount Rushmore National  मेमोरियल  is a sculpture  carved  into  the  granite face of Mount  rushmore  near Keystone , South Dakota , in the United States .
sculpted   by  Danish-American Gutzon  borglum  and his son , Lincoln Borglum  ,  Mount Rushmore features sculptures of the heads of four United  राज्य  presidents  :  George Washington , Thomas Jefferson , Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln .
The entire memorial covers and is above sea  स्तर  .
The tallest mountain in the region is Harney Peak  (   )  .
South Dakota  इतिहासकार   दोने  Robinson is credited with conceiving  the  idea of  नक्काशी   the  likenesses of famous people  into  the Black Hills region of South Dakota in order to promote tourism in the  प्रदेश  .
Robinson 's initial idea was  to  sculpt the Needles  ;  however ,  gutzon  Borglum rejected the Needles site because of the poor quality of the granite and strong opposition from environmentalists and Native American groups .
They settled on the Mount Rushmore  स्थान  ,  जिससे   भी  has the advantage of facing  southeast  for maximum sun exposure .
रॉबिन्सन  wanted  it   to   विशेषता   पश्चिमी  heroes like Lewis  और   क्लार्क  , Red Cloud and Buffalo Bill Cody but Borglum decided the sculpture should  have   a  more  नेशनल  focus , and chose the  चार  presidents  जिनकी   likenesses  would  be   carved  into the mountain .
After securing  संघीय   funding   ,  construction on the memorial began  in  1927 , and  the  presidents ' faces were completed between 1934  और  1939 .
upon   gutzon  Borglum 's  मौत   in  March 1941 , his son  lincoln  Borglum took over  निर्माण  .
Although the initial concept called  लिये  each  अध्यक्ष  to be depicted from  सिर  to  कमर  , lack  of  funding forced construction to  समाप्त  in late October  1941  .
The U.S. National Park  सेवा  took control of the memorial in 1933 ,  जबकि  it was still  अंतर्गत  construction ,  और  has  प्रबंधित  the memorial to the present day  .
It  attracts   nearly  three  लाख  people annually .
Charvet dress  कमीज़  from the 1930s , Norsk Folkemuseum , Oslo .
A  कमीज़  , dress shirt , button-front , button-front  कमीज़  , or button-up shirt  is  a garment with a  कॉलर   ,  a full-length opening at  the  front  इससे  the collar to the hem , and sleeves with cuffs .
Shirts are predominantly used by men , since  महिलाओं  usually wear blouses .
The  सामने  opening is fastened  using  buttons  or   studs   ,  and the cuffs close with buttons  or  cuff links .
Shirts are normally  बना  from  woven  cloth , and are  प्रायः  accompanied by a  जैकेट  and tie , for example with  a  suit or formalwear , but shirts  हैं  also worn more casually  .
in  British English , dress shirt  अर्थात्   specifically  the more formal evening garment worn with black- or white- tie , also discussed  नीचे  .
Some of these formal  शर्ट   have  stiff  fronts  and detachable collars attached with  कॉलर  studs .
the  term `` button-down '' ( which refers a type of  कमीज़  which has a  कॉलर  fastened down by  बटन  ) is sometimes  प्रयुक्त   in  error to apply to all shirts (  साथ  or without buttoned down collars )  ,  being  प्रयुक्त  as a synonym for  ``  button-up '' or ``  button-front  ''  .
प्रशासनिक   पेशेवर  Day ( also known  as  Secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in several countries to recognize the work of secretaries , administrative assistants , receptionists , and  अन्य   प्रशासनिक  support  पेशेवर  .
In North America ,  it   is   मनाये  on the Wednesday  of  the last full week of  अप्रैल  ( April 24 in  2013  ) .
In France  it   is  celebrated on the third Thursday in  अप्रैल  ( April 18 in 2013 )  .
In Australia it is  मनाये  on the  पहला   शुक्रवार  in May
धमाकेदार  can  be:
Abrasive blasting
धमाका  furnace
Rock blasting
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 –  19  November 1665 ) was the leading painter of the classical French Baroque  स्टाइल  ,  हालांकि  he spent most of his working life  in  Rome .
His work is characterized by  स्पष्टता  , logic , and  अनुक्रम  ,  और  favors line over color .
जबतक   the   20th  century he remained a major inspiration for such  classically   उन्मुख  artists  as  Jacques-Louis David  ,  Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres and Paul Cézanne .
He  worked  in Rome  लिये  a circle of  अग्रणी  collectors there and  elsewhere  , except for a  छोटी   काल  when  कार्डिनल  Richelieu ordered him back to  फ़्रांस  to serve as First Painter to  the   किंग  .
सबसे  of his works are history paintings of religious or  पौराणिक   विषय  that very  प्रायः  have a large  लैंडस्केप  element .
Jackie  कैथ   whitley   (   जुलाई  1 , 1954Stambler  ,  Irwin , and  grelun  Landon ( 2000 ) . - Country Music : The Encyclopedia . - New York  :  St.  मार्टिन  's Press  .  - p.533 .  -   isbn  978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin , Richard ( 2003 ) .  -  Country Music :  a  Biographical Dictionary . - New York  :  Routledge - p.427 . - ISBN  978-0-415-93802-0.—larkin   ,   कोलिन  ( 1995 )  .  - The  गिनीज   ज्ञानकोष  of  लोकप्रिय  Music .  -  New  यॉर्क  :  स्टॉकटन  Press - P.4462 . - ISBN 978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton ,  स्कॉट   (   2003  ) . - The Tombstone Tourist : Musicians . - New  यॉर्क  : Pocket Books  .  - p.395 . - ISBN  978-0-7434-6330-0.—hicks   ,  Jack . - `` Singer Keith  whitley  's Memory Alive Through  गीतों  , Love in Home  कस्बा  '' . - The Kentucky Post . -  सितंबर  25 , 1991.— '' Country Music Star  कैथ  Whitley  मुर्दे  at 33 '' . - Lexington Herald-Leader . -  may  10 , 1989.——Hurst , Jack  .  - `` Whitley 's Last Days '' . - Chicago Tribune  .  - May 14  ,  1989.— ''  दारू  Kills Country Singer Keith Whitley '' . - United Press  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   .  - ( c/o The San Francisco Chronicle )  .  - May 10 , 1989 . — May 9  ,  1989 ) , known professionally as Keith Whitley  ,  was an  अमरीकी   देश  music singer .
Whitley 's brief career in mainstream country music  lasted   इससे  1984  जबतक  his death in 1989 , but he continues to influence an entire generation of  गायकों  and songwriters .
he  charted 19  singles  on the Billboard  देश  charts  ,  including five consecutive Number  ones  : `` Do n't  बंद  Your Eyes `` , `` When  तुम   कह  Nothing at All  ``  , `` I 'm No  अजनबी  to  the  Rain  ``  , `` I  अचरज  Do  तुम  Think of Me  ``  and `` It Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two  मरणोपरांत  ) .
Statute of Grand Duchy of Lithuania  ,  written  in   पॉलिश
A statute is a formal written enactment of  a  legislative authority that governs a  राज्य   ,  city , or county .
Typically ,  statutes  command or prohibit something , or declare policy  .
The word is often used to distinguish law made by legislative bodies from  मामला   विधि  , decided by courts , and regulations issued by government agencies .
Statutes are sometimes  referred  to as legislation or `` black letter  विधि  . ''
As a source of law , statutes are  माना  primary authority ( as opposed  to  secondary authority )  .
Ideally all statutes must be in harmony with the  आधारभूत  law of the  जमीन  ( constitutional ) .
This word is  प्रयुक्त   in  contradistinction to the  आम  law .
Statutes acquire their  फ़ोर्स   इससे  the  समय  of their passage  ,  however unless otherwise provided .
Statutes are of  अनेक   kinds  ; namely , Public or private .
Declaratory or remedial  .
Temporary or perpetual .
A temporary  statute  is one  जिससे  is limited in its duration at the time of its enactment  .
it  continues in force until the time of its limitation has  समाप्त   ,  unless sooner repealed .
A  perpetual  statute  is  one for the continuance of which  वहीँ   is   no  limited  समय  , although it  may  not be expressly declared to be so  .
If , however , a statute which did  नहीं   itself   contain  any limitation is to be governed by  another  which  is  temporary only ,  the  former will  भी   be  temporary and dependent upon the existence of the latter .
पहले  a statute becomes law in some countries , it must be  सहमत  upon  by  the highest executive  in  the government , and finally published  as  part of a code .
In many countries , statutes  हैं  organized in topical arrangements ( or  ``  codified  ''  )  भीतर  publications called codes ,  ऐसे  as the United States Code .
In many nations statutory law is distinguished from  और  subordinate to constitutional law .
The external  iliac  arteries are two major arteries which  bifurcate  off  the   आम  iliac  धमनियों  anterior to the sacroiliac joint of the pelvis .
They proceed  अग्रवर्ती  and inferior along the medial  किनारा  of the psoas major muscles .
वे  exit the pelvic girdle posterior  और  inferior  to  the inguinal  स्नायु   परिचय  one third laterally from the insertion point of the inguinal  स्नायु  on the pubic tubercle at which point  वे  are referred to as the femoral arteries .
The external  iliac  artery is  प्रायः  the  धमनी  used to attach  the  renal  धमनी   to   the  recipient of a  गुर्दा  transplant .
Steam is a digital distribution , digital rights  प्रबन्धन   ,  multiplayer  और  communications platform developed by Valve  निगम  .
It is used to distribute games and related media online ,  इससे   छोटी  independent developers  to  larger software houses ;  in  October 2012 , Valve expanded the service to include non-gaming  तन्त्र  .
Steam  provides  the  उपयोक्ता  with installation and automatic management of software across multiple  कंप्यूटर  , community features  ऐसे  as friends lists and groups , cloud  छायांकन  ,  और  in-game  आवाज़  and chat functionality .
the  software provides a freely available  अनुप्रयोग  programming interface , Steamworks  ,   कि  developers can  लो  advantage of  to   integrate  many of Steam 's functions within their software  उत्पाद  , including  नक़ल  protection , networking and matchmaking , in-game achievements  और   micro-transactions  , and  support  for user-created  सामग्री  through Steam Workshop  .
Though initially developed  लिये  use on  microsoft  Windows , the client  रै   विस्तारित  to include OS  x  and Linux versions ,  और   क्लाइंट  with  सीमित   कार्यक्षमता  on the PlayStation  3  console and for both  आईओएस  and Android mobile  डिवाइस  .
In  जोड  to  होने  a central  हब  for gaming  तन्त्र   ,  Valve has  निर्मित   a  version  of  Steam  साथ  altered  कार्यक्षमता  to  be  used in schools for educational software ,  सहित   a  modified version of Portal 2 for teaching science and critical thinking lessons .
,  वहीँ  are nearly 2000 games available through  भाप  , and 54 million active  उपयोक्ता  accounts .
As of January 2013 , Steam has seen over 6.6 million concurrent  खिलाड़ी  .
Steam has an  अनुमानित  50–70 % share of the digital distribution market for video games .
the   भाप   लोगो  is a stylised  left-side  fly-crank and rod from the Walschaerts valve gear of  a  steam  लोकोमोटिव  .
Jerry Lewis (  born  March  16  , 1926 ) is  an   अमरीकी   हास्य  , actor , singer , film  निर्माता  , screenwriter  और  film director .
He is known  लिये   उसके  slapstick humor in film , television  ,  stage and  रेडियो  .
He  थी  originally paired up with Dean Martin in 1946 , forming the  famed  comedy team of  मार्टिन  and Lewis  .
in  addition to the duo  's  popular nightclub work , they starred in a successful series of comedy films  लिये  Paramount Pictures .
लुईस  is also  ज्ञात  for his charity fund-raising  telethons  and position  as   नेशनल  chairman for the Muscular Dystrophy  संघ  ( MDA ) .
Lewis has won  अनेक  awards for lifetime achievements from The American Comedy Awards  ,   लॉस  Angeles Film Critics Association , and Venice Film Festival  ,  and he has two stars on  the  Hollywood Walk of Fame .
In 2005  ,  he  प्राप्त  the  राज्यपालों  Award of the Academy of  टेलीविज़न  Arts & Sciences Board of Governors , which is the highest Emmy Award presented .
on   फ़रवरी  22 , 2009 , the  अकादमी  of  गति  Picture Arts and  sciences  awarded Lewis the Jean Hersholt  humanitarian  Award  .
the  Rhine ( ; ;  )   is  a European river that runs from the Swiss canton  of   grisons  in the southeastern Swiss Alps through Germany and eventually flows into the North  समुद्र  coast in  the  Netherlands and is the  बारहवीं  longest river  in  Europe , at about , with an  औसत  discharge of more than .
The  राइन   और  the Danube formed most of the northern inland  frontier  of  the  Roman Empire and ,  चूंकि  those days ,  the  Rhine has been a vital  और  navigable waterway carrying trade and goods deep inland .
it  has also  परोसा  as a defensive feature and has  महरूम  the basis for  क्षेत्रीय  and international  सीमायें  .
The  अनेक  castles and prehistoric  fortifications  along the Rhine  गवाही  to its importance as a  जलमार्ग  .
River traffic could be stopped  at   ये  locations ,  प्रायः  for the purpose of collecting tolls  ,  by the state that controlled that  portion   of   the  river .
Sri ( Sinhala )
Sri (  देवनागरी  : श्री , IAST ; Śrī  )   ,  also transliterated as Sree  or  Shri or Shree is a word of Sanskrit origin , used in the Indian subcontinent as polite form of  पता  equivalent to  the  English `` Mr. '' in written and spoken language ,  or  as a title of veneration  लिये  deities ( usually translated as `` Holy '' ) .
Design of complex structures like  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   स्पेस   स्टेशन  needs in-depth understanding  of  Structural Analysis .
सिविल  engineering is a professional engineering discipline that deals  साथ  the design , construction , and maintenance  of  the physical and naturally built environment , including works like roads , bridges , canals  ,  dams , and  इमारतें  .
Civil engineering is the  oldest  engineering discipline after  सैन्य  engineering , and  it  was defined  to  distinguish non-military engineering from military engineering  .
It  is  traditionally broken  into   अनेक   sub-disciplines  including environmental engineering  ,  geotechnical engineering , geophysics , geodesy , control engineering  ,  structural engineering  ,  biomechanics  ,  nanotechnology  ,  transportation engineering ,  धरती  science , atmospheric sciences , forensic engineering , municipal or urban  अभियान्त्रिकी  , water resources engineering , materials  अभियान्त्रिकी  , coastal engineering , surveying ,  और  construction engineering  .
Civil engineering takes place  on  all levels  :  in the public sector from  नगरपालिका  through to national governments , and in  the  private sector from individual homeowners through to international  कंपनियाँ  .
Katherine Dunham in  तीव्र  Revue
Katherine Dunham in Studio
कैथरीन  Dunham in Tropical Review  तीव्र  Review , Martin Beck Theatre
Katherine Dunham wearing dance  वेशभूषा
Katherine  dunham  in Cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( June 22  ,  1909 – May 21 , 2006 ) was  an   अमरीकी  dancer ,  कोरियोग्राफर  , author , educator , and  सोशल  activist .
dunham  had  एक   of  the most successful dance careers in American and European  थिएटर  of the 20th century , and directed her own dance company for many years  .
She has been  पुकारा   the  `` matriarch  और  queen  माँ  of black  नृत्य  '' .
During her  heyday  in  the  1940s and 1950s , Dunham was renowned  throughout  Europe and Latin  अमेरिका  and was widely popular  in  the United States , where the Washington Post called her ``  नर्तकी  Katherine the Great ''  .
लिये  almost thirty  सालो  she maintained the Katherine Dunham Dance Company ,  the   तभी  self-supported  अमरीकी  black dance troupe at that time  ,  and over her long career she choreographed  अधिक  than ninety individual  dances  .
Dunham was  an  innovator in  african-american  modern  नृत्य  as well  as  a leader in the field  of   नृत्य  anthropology , or ethnochoreology .
sphagnum  is a  genus  of  between  1510  और  3500 species  of   mosses  ,  commonly   पुकारा  peat moss due  to  its  व्यापकता  in  गीला  habitats where  it  contributes to the  गठन  of peat  bogs   और  mires .
sphagnum   accumulations  can  स्टोर   जल  , since both  जीना   और  dead plants can  थाम   विशाल   quantities  of water inside their cells ;  पौधे  may hold from  16-26  times as much water as their dry weight depending on the  प्रजाति  .
the  empty cells  सहायता  retain water in drier conditions  .
Hence , as sphagnum moss grows  ,  it can slowly spread into drier conditions , forming larger peatlands , both raised bogs and blanket  bogs  .
These peat accumulations then provide habitat for a wide array of peatland plants , including sedges and ericaceous  shrubs   ,   as  well as orchids and  मांसाहारी   पौधे  .
Sphagnum and the peat formed from it do not decay  readily  because of the phenolic compounds  अंतःस्थापित   in  the moss 's cell walls .
In addition , bogs ,  जैसे  all  वेटलैंड्स  , develop anaerobic soil conditions , which produces slower anaerobic decay rather than  एरोबिक  microbial action  .
Peat moss can also  acidify   इसके  surroundings by  लेने   up  cations , such as calcium and magnesium , and releasing hydrogen ions .
Under the right conditions ,  peat  can accumulate to a depth of many meters .
Different species  of  Sphagnum  have   अलग  tolerance  हद  for  बाढ़   और  pH , so  कोई   एक  peatland  may   have  a number of different  sphagnum  species  .
व्यक्तिगत  peat moss plants consist  of  a main stem  ,  with tightly arranged clusters of branch fascicles usually consisting of two or  तीन  spreading branches and two to four hanging branches  .
The top  of  the plant , or  capitulum  , has compact clusters of young branches .
Along the stem are scattered leaves of various shapes , named  स्टेम  leaves ; the shape varies according  to   प्रजाति  .
The leaves consist of two kinds of cells ; small , green ,  जीना   कोशिकाएं  (  chlorophyllose  cells ) ,  और  large , clear  ,   संरचनात्मक  , dead cells ( hyaline cells  )  .
The latter have the large water-holding capacity .
the   earliest  version of the Network Card  ,  issued manually rather than  through   an  APTIS  यंत्र   .
The first APTIS version of  the  Network Card .
इस  was used from the start of the APTIS era in 1986/1987 until well into  the  1990s , as stocks had  to  be  प्रयुक्त  up despite the introduction  of  the new-look orange-banded  संस्करण  in 1991 .
The  परिचय  of the weekday minimum  किराया   कंडीशन  in 2002  resulted  in  a  minor change : the red  ``  R '' shows  कि  this  is  the ``  संशोधित  '' version  of  the railcard  .
This  संस्करण  is  स्टिल  in use as of 2007  .
The Network Railcard is a discount card introduced in 1986 by British Rail  ,  upon the creation of their Network  southeast  area around London ,  इंग्लैण्ड  .
The card is intended to encourage leisure travel by rail by offering  छूट  for adults  और   accompanying  children on a wide range of off-peak fares  .
The range  of  discounts available , and the  दाम  of the card , have varied since that  समय  , but the card has  सदा   महरूम  valid  लिये  a year  's   असीमित   उपयोग   .
It  can  be purchased by any  व्यक्ति  aged  16  or over from any  staffed  National  रेल  station or Rail Appointed Travel Agent , by completing an application form -  no   फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक  identification or other documentation is  needed  to  ख़रीदे  or use the  कार्ड  .
It is  एक  of a  क्रमांक  of concessionary fare schemes available on the British railway system .
The United  राष्ट्र   (  UN ; French  :  Organisation des Nations  unies  , ONU ) is the world 's largest , foremost ,  और  most prominent  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  organization .
The stated  aims  of  the  United Nations include promoting  और  facilitating cooperation in international  विधि  , international  सुरक्षा  , economic  विकास  , social progress , human rights  ,  civil  अधिकारों  ,  सिविल   लिबर्टीज  ,  राजनैतिक  freedoms , democracy , and the achievement  of  lasting world peace .
The UN was founded in 1945 after World War II to replace the League  of  Nations ,  to  stop wars between countries , and to provide a platform for dialogue .
it  contains  अनेक  subsidiary organizations to  carry  out its missions .
At its founding , the UN had 51 member  राज्य  ; as of  2011   ,  there are 193 .
From its offices  around  the  संसार  , the UN and  इसके   specialized  agencies  decide  on substantive and administrative  मुद्दे  in regular meetings held throughout the year .
the  organization has six  प्रिंसिपल   अंगों  : the General Assembly  (   the  main deliberative  सभा  )  ;  the Security Council  (  for  deciding  certain resolutions  लिये  peace and  सुरक्षा  ) ; the Economic and Social Council ( for assisting in  promoting   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   आर्थिक  and  सोशल  cooperation and development ) ; the Secretariat ( for providing studies , information ,  और  facilities  needed  by  the   un  ) ; the International  अदालत   of  Justice ( the primary  न्यायिक   अंग  ) ; and the United  राष्ट्र  Trusteeship  परिषद  ( which  is  currently inactive )  .
Other prominent UN System  एजेंसियों   शामिल   the  World Health  संगठन   (  WHO ) , the World Food Programme ( WFP )  और  United Nations Children  's  Fund  (   यूनिसेफ  )  .
The  un  's most prominent position is that of  the  office of Secretary-General which has been held by Ban Ki-moon  of   दक्षिण  Korea since 2007 .
the  United Nations Headquarters  resides   in   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  territory in New York City , with  further  main offices  at  Geneva , Nairobi ,  और  Vienna  .
The organization is financed from  assessed  and voluntary contributions from its  सदस्य  states  ,  and has six  आधिकारिक  languages : Arabic ,  चाइनीज  , English , French , Russian , and Spanish .
South Beach , also nicknamed  sobe  , is a neighborhood in the city of Miami Beach , Florida , United  राज्य  ,  स्तिथ  due east  of  Miami city proper between Biscayne Bay and the Atlantic Ocean .
The  क्षेत्रफल  encompasses all  of  the barrier  आइलैंड्स   of   मियामी  Beach  दक्षिण  of  भारतीय  Creek .
This area was the first section  of  Miami Beach to be developed , starting in the 1910s , thanks to  the  development efforts of Carl G. Fisher  ,  the Lummus  भाइयो  ,  और  John S. Collins , the latter whose construction of the Collins Bridge provided the  पहला  vital  जमीन   कड़ी  between mainland Miami  और   the  beaches .
The area  रै  gone through numerous artificial and natural changes  over   the  years , including a  booming  regional economy , increased tourism , and the 1926 hurricane ,  जिससे   नष्ट  much  of  the area .
As of 2010 ,  परिचय  39,186 residents live  in  South Beach .
The United States presidential election  of  1960 was the 44th quadrennial presidential election , held on Tuesday , November  8  , 1960  .
The  रिपब्लिकन   पार्टी  nominated incumbent Vice-President Richard Nixon ,  जबकि  the Democratic Party  मनोनीत   जॉन  F. Kennedy , Senator  इससे  Massachusetts  .
The incumbent President , Republican Dwight D.  आइज़नहावर  , was  नहीं  eligible for re-election after serving the maximum two terms allowed  by  the Twenty-second Amendment .
Kennedy  थी  elected with a  सीसे  of 112,827 votes , or 0.17  %  of the popular  vote  , giving him a victory of 303 to  219  in the  चुनावी  College ,  the  closest since 1916 .
This was the first election in which all fifty of  the  current United States participated .
A  क्रमांक  of  कारकों  explain why the election was  so   बंद  .
Kennedy gained since there was an economic  मंदी  which hurt the incumbent Republican ,  और  he  था  the  लाभ  of  17  million more  पंजीकृत  Democrats than Republicans .
furthermore  , the new votes that Kennedy  gained   among  Catholics almost neutralized  the  new votes Nixon gained  among   protestants  .
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched Nixon 's  .
In the  समाप्त  , Nixon 's emphasis on his  अनुभव  carried little weight , and he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states  बजाय  of concentrating on the swing states .
Kennedy used his large ,  well-funded  campaign organization to  जीत  the nomination ,  सुरक्षित  endorsements ,  और  , with the aid of the last of the big-city  bosses  , to  मिलेंगी  out the  vote  in the big cities .
He relied on running mate Lyndon  B.  Johnson to hold  the   दक्षिण   और  used television effectively .
This election  is  notable as  होने  the first time in U.S. history that two  बैठे  U.S . Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson  )  were elected as president and vice-president  ,  a phenomenon that has been repeated once , by Barack Obama and  जो  Biden in  2008  ( in both cases  ,  the president  थी   the  younger , more junior senator  )  .
A poster for a c. 1884  अमरीकी  production of Macbeth , starring Thomas  W.  Keene .
चित्रित   ,  counter clockwise  इससे   top-left  , are :  मैकबेथ  and  banquo  meet the  witches  ; just after  the  murder of Duncan ; Banquo 's  भुत  ; Macbeth duels Macduff ; and Macbeth  .
Macbeth is a play written by William Shakespeare  .
It is considered one of his darkest and most powerful  tragedies  .
Set in  स्कॉटलैंड  , the play dramatizes the corroding psychological and political  प्रभाव  produced when its protagonist , the Scottish lord  मैकबेथ  , chooses evil  as  the way to  fulfill  his ambition  लिये  power .
he  commits regicide to become  किंग   और  then furthers his moral descent with  a  reign of murderous terror  to  stay in  शक्ति   ,  eventually plunging  the  country into civil war .
In the end  ,  he loses  सबकुछ  that gives  अर्थ  and purpose to his  जीवन  before losing his  जीवन  itself .
The play is believed to have been  लिखा   between   1603  and 1607 , and is most  commonly  dated 1606 .
The earliest  खाता  of a performance  of  what was  संभवतः  Shakespeare 's play is April 1611 , when Simon  forman   अंकित   देखकर  such a  खेल  at the Globe  थिएटर  .
It was  पहला  published  in  the Folio of 1623 ,  संभवतः  from a prompt  किताब  .
It was  सबसे   संभावित  written  दौरान  the reign of James  i  , who  था   महरूम  James VI of  स्कॉटलैंड   पहले  he succeeded to the English throne  in  1603  .
James was a patron of Shakespeare’s acting company , and  of  all the plays Shakespeare  लिखा  during James’s reign , Macbeth most  clearly  reflects the playwright’s  संबंध  with the sovereign .
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy , and tells the story of a brave Scottish general named  मैकबेथ  who receives a prophecy from a trio of witches that  एक  day  he  will  become  King of Scotland .
Consumed  by  ambition and  spurred  to action  by  his wife , Macbeth murders King Duncan and  takes  the throne  लिये  himself  .
His reign  is  racked with guilt and paranoia , and he soon  becomes  a tyrannical ruler as he  is  forced to commit more and more murders to protect himself from enmity and suspicion .
The bloodbath swiftly  takes  Macbeth and Lady  मैकबेथ  into realms of arrogance , madness , and  मौत   .
Shakespeare 's  सोर्स   लिये   the  tragedy  is  the account of King Macbeth of Scotland ,  macduff  , and  डंकन  in Holinshed  's  Chronicles ( 1587 ) , a history of England , Scotland and Ireland familiar to  शेक्सपियर  and his contemporaries , although the events in the play differ  extensively  from  the  history of the  रियल   मैकबेथ  .
In the backstage world of theatre , some believe that the play is cursed , and will  नहीं  mention its title  aloud  , referring to  it  instead as ``  the  Scottish  खेल  `` .
Over the course of many centuries , the  खेल  has attracted some of  the   सबसे  renowned  अभिनेताओं  to the roles of Macbeth  और   महिला  Macbeth  .
It has been adapted to  फिल्मी  , television ,  ओपेरा   ,  novels , comic books  ,  and other media  .
The Milton Hershey School is a private philanthropic ( pre-K through  12  ) boarding  स्कूल  in Hershey , Pennsylvania .
Originally  नामित  the Hershey Industrial School , the institution  थी  founded and funded by chocolate industrialist Milton Snavely Hershey  और  his wife , Catherine Sweeney Hershey .
The school was originally established for impoverished ,  स्वस्थ   ,  Caucasian ,  पुरूष  orphans , while today  it   serves  students  of  various backgrounds .
The Milton Hershey  स्कूल  Trust  ,  which funds the school , owns controlling interest in The Hershey Company and owns the Hershey Entertainment and Resorts  कम्पनी  (  herco  )  जिससे   oversees  many of the area  होटल  along  साथ  a  थीम  park called  hersheypark  .
With over six billion dollars in assets ,  the   मिल्टन  Hershey School  is  one of the  wealthiest  schools in the world .
The school is overseen by a Board of Managers .
The school currently serves  1,818  students , and plans to grow to 2,100 students by 2013 .
A  सदस्य   of   कोर  : Coalition for  आवासीय   शिक्षा   ,  it is  the  largest residential  शिक्षा   कार्यक्रम  in the US  .
Epub may refer to:
epub  , a free and  खोलें  e-book  मानक
Electronic  आलेख   ,  articles in  scholarly  journals or magazines that can be  पहुँचा  via electronic transmission
The Controlled Substances Act (  सीएसए   )  was enacted  into  law by the Congress of  the  United States as Title II  of   the  Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the  संघीय   u.S.  drug policy under which the  manufacture  ,  importation  , possession , use and distribution  of   निश्चित  substances is regulated .
The Act also served as  the  national implementing legislation for the Single Convention  on  Narcotic Drugs  .
the   विधान  created five Schedules (  classifications  ) , with varying qualifications for  a  substance  to  be  शामिल   in   प्रत्येक  .
Two federal agencies  ,  the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and  ड्रग  Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from  the  various schedules , though  the   statute   passed  by  कॉंग्रेस   निर्मित   the   आरंभिक  listing  ,  and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through  विधान  such  as  the Hillory J. Farias  और  Samantha Reid Date-Rape  रोकथाम  Act  of  2000  ,   जिससे   लगाई  gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification  निर्णय  are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical use  in  treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
Second-language acquisition or second-language learning is the process  by   जिससे   लोगों  learn a second language .
second-language   अधिग्रहण  ( often  abbreviated  to SLA )  भी  refers to  the  scientific discipline  devoted  to studying that  प्रक्रम  .
Second  भाषा  refers to any  भाषा  learned in  जोड  to a person 's  पहला   भाषा  ; although the  अवधारणा  is named  second-language  acquisition ,  it   can  also  चरितार्थ  the learning of  तीसरा   ,   चौथी  , or subsequent languages  .
Second-language acquisition refers to what learners do ; it does not refer  to   practices  in language teaching .
The  अकादमिक  discipline of second-language acquisition is a subdiscipline  of  applied linguistics .
It is  broad-based   और  relatively new .
As well as the various branches  of  linguistics , second-language  अधिग्रहण  is also closely related  to   मनोविज्ञान  , cognitive psychology , and education .
To separate the academic discipline from  the  learning  प्रक्रम   itself  , the terms second-language acquisition research , second-language  अध्ययन  ,  और  second-language acquisition studies are also used .
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary  फ़ील्ड  , and  क्युकी  of this it is difficult to identify  a   precise  starting date .
However  ,   it  does  appear  to have developed a great deal since  the  mid-1960s .
The term acquisition was originally used to emphasize  the  subconscious nature of the learning process , but in recent years learning and acquisition have become largely  synonymous  .
Second-language acquisition can  चरितार्थ   विरासत  language learning , but it does not usually  चरितार्थ  bilingualism .
Most SLA researchers see bilingualism as being the end result of learning a language , not  the  process itself , and see the term as referring to native-like fluency .
Writers in fields such as  शिक्षा  and psychology  ,  however , often use  bilingualism  loosely to refer  to  all forms of multilingualism .
Second-language acquisition is also  नहीं   to   be  contrasted with the acquisition of a foreign  भाषा  ; rather , the learning  of   दूसरी  languages and  the  learning of foreign languages involve  the   वही   आधारभूत  processes in  अलग  situations..
There has been much  बहस  about exactly how language is learned ,  और  many  मुद्दे  are still  अनसुलझे  .
वहीँ  are many theories of second-language acquisition  ,  but none are accepted  as  a complete explanation  by  all SLA  शोधकर्ताओं  .
Due to the  interdisciplinary   प्रकृति  of the field of second-language acquisition  ,  this is not expected  to   happen  in the foreseeable  भविष्य  .
Forbes list  of  billionaires is an  सालाना  ranking of the world  's  wealthiest people , compiled and published by Forbes , an American national business magazine .
The  कुल  net worth  of   प्रत्येक  individual on the list is estimated , in United States dollars , based on their assets and  हिसाब  for  कर्ज़  .
The  सूची  only represents each person  's  valuation on a single day ,  due  to  रोज़  fluctuations among exchange rates and stock valuations  .
The  संयुक्त  States Secret Service is a U.S. federal law enforcement agency that is part of the United States  विभाग  of  मातृभूमि  Security  .
The sworn members are divided  among  the Special Agents and the Uniformed  प्रभाग  .
Until March 1 , 2003  ,  the Service was part  of  the United States Department of the Treasury .
The U.S. Secret Service has two  पृथक   क्षेत्रों  of responsibility:
Financial Crimes , covering  मिशन  such as prevention and investigation of  counterfeiting  of U.S. currency and U.S. treasury securities , and investigation of  प्रमुख   धोखाधड़ी  .
Protection , which  entails   ensuring  the safety of current and former national leaders and their families ,  ऐसे  as the President , past presidents , vice  राष्ट्रपतियों  ,  अध्यक्षीय  candidates , visiting  heads  of state  ,  and foreign embassies ( per an  अनुबंध  with the U.S. State Department 's Bureau  of  Diplomatic  सुरक्षा  ( DS  )  Office  of  Foreign Missions (  ofm  )  ,   इत्यादि  . )
The  रहस्य  Service 's initial responsibility was  to  investigate  counterfeiting   of  U.S. currency , which  थी   अनियंत्रित  following  the  U.S. Civil War  .
The  एजेंसी   तब  evolved  into  the United  राज्य   '   पहला  domestic intelligence and counterintelligence agency .
Many of the agency  's   मिशन  were later  लिया   over  by  subsequent   एजेंसियों   ऐसे  as the Federal Bureau of  छानबीन  ( FBI ) , Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco ,  firearms   और  Explosives ( ATF ) , Immigration and Customs Enforcement ( ICE  )   ,  and  आतंरिक  Revenue Service ( IRS ) .
`` Me and Bobby McGee ''  is   a  song written by Kris Kristofferson and Fred  फोस्टर   ,  originally performed by Roger Miller .
अन्य   performed  the song later , including  kristofferson  himself , and Janis  joplin  who topped the  u.S.   singles  chart with the  सोंग   in  1971  बाद   उसके  death , making the song  the  second posthumous number-one single  in  U.S.  चार्ट  history after `` ( Sittin ' On  )  The Dock of the Bay  ``  by Otis  redding  .
Franklin  delano  Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 – April 12  ,  1945 ) , also  ज्ञात  by his initials , FDR , was the 32nd President of the  संयुक्त  States ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century ,  अग्रणी  the United States during a time of worldwide economic  अवसाद  and total  युद्ध  .
A dominant leader of the Democratic  पार्टी   और   the   तभी  American president elected  to  more than two terms ,  he  built  a   नई  Deal Coalition that realigned  अमरीकी  politics after 1932 , as his domestic policies  पारिभाषित  American liberalism for the middle  तीसरा  of the  20th  century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are  यहाँ  Again `` as his campaign theme , FDR defeated incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932 , at the depth of the  ग्रेट  Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over polio , FDR  's  unfailing optimism  और  activism contributed to  a   नवीकरण  of the  नेशनल  spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister  विंस्टन   चर्चिल  and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading  the   allies  against Germany and Japan in World  युद्ध  II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
in  his first hundred days  in  office  ,  which began March 4  ,  1933  ,  Roosevelt  पथप्रदर्शन  major  विधान   और  issued  a  profusion of  कार्यपालिका  orders that  instituted  the New Deal —a variety  of  programs designed to produce relief (  सरकारी  jobs  लिये   the   बेरोजगार  ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform  (  through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
the   अर्थव्यवस्था  improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937 ,  लकिन  then  relapsed  into a deep  मंदी   .
The bipartisan  रूढ़िवादी   गठबन्धन  that  formed   in   1937  prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any considerable legislation  ;  it abolished many of the relief  कार्यक्रम  when unemployment diminished during World  युद्ध  II .
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85 , except for the regulation  of  Wall Street by the Securities and  एक्सचेंज  Commission ,  जिससे   स्टिल  exists .
Along with  अनेक   छोटी  programs  ,   प्रमुख  surviving programs include  the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  ,   जिससे  was  निर्मित   in  1933 ,  और  Social Security  ,  which Congress passed in  1935   .
as  World  युद्ध  II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany  ,  FDR gave strong diplomatic and financial support to  चीन  and Great Britain , while remaining officially  न्यूट्रल  .
His  लक्ष्य  was to make America the  ``   आर्सेनल  of Democracy `` which would supply munitions to the Allies .
In  कूच   1941  , Roosevelt , with Congressional approval , provided  lend-lease  aid to the  देशों  fighting against Nazi Germany with  ब्रिटेन  .
With very strong national  support  , he made war on Japan and Germany after the  जापानी  attack on Pearl Harbor  on  December 7 , 1941 ,  कॉलिंग  it a `` date  जिससे   होगा  live in infamy ``  .
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S.  अर्थव्यवस्था  to  support  the Allied war effort .
As an active military leader  ,  Roosevelt  implemented  an overall  युद्ध   रणनीति  on two fronts that  ended  in  the  defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom  बमबारी  .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the  internment  of 100,000  जापानी  American civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 %  ,  relief programs largely ended , and the industrial economy grew  rapidly  to new heights as millions of people moved to new jobs in  युद्ध   centers   ,  and 16 million  मेन  and  300,000   महिलाओं  were  drafted  or  volunteered  for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the  अमरीकी  political scene  नहीं   तभी  during the twelve years of his presidency  ,  but also for  दशकों  afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System .
fdr  's New Deal Coalition united labor unions , big city machines ,  श्वेत  ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
he  also influenced  the  later creation of the United Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the  शीर्ष  three U.S. Presidents , along with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
a  liberal Democrat , Roosevelt defined his ideological  स्थिति   as  `` a little left of center .  ''
मारा   salvatrucha  ( commonly  abbreviated  as MS ,  मारा  , and MS-13 ) is  a  transnational  दण्ड  gang that  originated  in Los Angeles and has spread  to  other parts  of  the  संयुक्त  States , Canada  ,  Mexico  ,  and Central America .
the  majority of the  गिरोह  is  ethnically  composed  of  Central Americans and active in urban and suburban areas .
In the U.S. , the MS-13  रै  an especially heavy presence in Los Angeles County and the San  फ्रांसिस्को  Bay Area in Northern California ; the Washington , D.C. metropolitan areas of Fairfax County , Virginia  ,  Montgomery County , Maryland , and Prince George 's County  ,  Maryland  ;   long  Island ,  नई  York ;  the  Boston , Massachusetts area ;  शेर्लोट  , North Carolina ; and Houston  ,  Texas .
There is also a presence of MS-13 in Toronto , Ontario  ,   कनाडा  .
Members of MS distinguish  themselves  by tattoos covering the body and  भी  often the face , as  खूब   as  the use of their  अपना   चिह्न   भाषा   .
They are  बदनाम   लिये  their use of violence and  a  subcultural moral code  कि  predominantly  consists  of merciless revenge  और  cruel  retributions  .
This  क्रूरता  of  the  distinguished  सदस्यों  of the `` Maras  ''  or `` Mareros  ''  earned them a path to be recruited by the Sinaloa Cartel battling  विरूद्ध   लॉस   zetas   in  an ongoing drug  युद्ध  south of  the  United States border  .
Their wide-ranging activities have drawn the attention  of   the  FBI and Immigration and  कस्टम  Enforcement , who have initiated wide-scale  छापे  against  ज्ञात   और  suspected gang members –  netting  hundreds of arrests across the country .
हड्डियों   is  an American crime comedy-drama television series that premiered on  the  Fox network in the  संयुक्त  States on September 13  ,  2005 .
The show is based  on  forensic anthropology and  forensic  archaeology , with each episode focusing on  an  FBI  मामला  file concerning  the  mystery  पीछे  human remains brought by FBI Special  एजेंट  Seeley Booth ( David Boreanaz  )  to  the  forensic  anthropologist  Dr. Temperance ``  हड्डियों  ''  ब्रेनन   (  Emily  deschanel  ) .
The rest of  the  main cast includes Michaela Conlin , T. J. Thyne , Eric Millegan , Tamara Taylor , Jonathan Adams  ,  and John Francis Daley .
Created by Hart  hanson   ,  the series  is  very loosely  आधारित   on  the life  और  writings of  उपन्यासकार   और  forensic anthropologist  कैथी  Reichs , who  भी   produces  the show .
इसके   शीर्षक  character , Temperance  ब्रेनन   ,   is  named  बाद  the protagonist of Reichs '  अपराधों  novel series .
Conversely  ,   dr.  Brennan writes successful mystery novels based  around  a fictional (  in  the Bones universe ) forensic anthropologist named Kathy Reichs .
Bones is a  संयुक्त   उत्पादन   by  Josephson Entertainment , Far Field  प्रोडक्शन्स   और   20th  Century Fox Television .
The series  रै  completed airing its eighth  ऋतु  and has been  नवीनीकृत  for a ninth season .
Super Bowl  xxv  was an American football game  between  the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Buffalo Bills  और  the National Football Conference (  nfc  ) champion New York Giants  to  decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the  1990  season .
the  Giants defeated the Bills by the score of  20–19  ,  जीतना  their second ever Super Bowl  .
It  is  the only  सुपर  Bowl decided by  एक  point .
The game was  आयोजित  at Tampa Stadium in  tampa  , Florida , on  जनवरी  27  ,  1991 ,  दौरान   the   ऊँचाई  of the Gulf War .
it  was thus played under  much  patriotic fervor .
the  proceedings included  a  rousing rendition of ``  the   star-spangled  Banner `` by Whitney Houston during the pregame ceremonies .
The Bills and their explosive no-huddle offense were making their first Super  कटोरी  appearance after finishing the regular season with a 13-3 record  ,  and leading  the  league  in  total  अंक   scored  with 428 .
In  advancing   to  their second Super  कटोरी  ,  the  Giants also  posted   a  13-3 regular season record , but  साथ  a ball-control offense and a defense  कि  allowed a league low 211 points  .
The  खेल  is best remembered for Bills placekicker  स्कॉट  Norwood 's last-second field goal attempt which went wide right of  the  uprights , leading to a Giants victory , and starting a four-game losing streak in  the  Super Bowl  लिये   the  Bills  .
The  दिग्गज  set a Super Bowl record holding possession  of  the  बॉल  for 40  मिनट्स  and 33  सेकेंड  .
New  यॉर्क  also overcame a 12-3 second-quarter  deficit  , and made a 75-yard  touchdown  drive that consumed a Super Bowl record  9:29  off  the  clock  .
Giants  कार्यशील  back Ottis Anderson ,  जो  carried  the   बॉल  21  टाइम्स  for 102 yards and one  touchdown  , was named Super  कटोरी   mvp  .
He was  the   पहला   awardee   to  receive the newly named  ``  Pete Rozelle Trophy '' ( named  लिये  the  पूर्व  commissioner ) .
Anderson  भी  recorded one reception for seven  गज  .
Malcolm X ( ; May 19  ,  1925February 21 , 1965 ) , born Malcolm Little and also  ज्ञात   as  El-Hajj  malik  El-Shabazz ( ) , was  an   african-american  Muslim minister and  इंसान  rights activist .
To his  admirers  , he  थी  a courageous  एडवोकेट   लिये  the  अधिकारों  of blacks , a man who indicted white  अमेरिका  in the  harshest   शर्तें  for  इसके   अपराधों  against black Americans .
Detractors accused  उसे  of preaching racism , black supremacy  ,  and violence .
He  रै  been called one  of  the greatest  और   सबसे  influential African Americans in history .
मैल्कम  X  's  father died—killed by white supremacists , it was rumored—when he was young , and at least one of his  uncles  was lynched  .
When he was  13  ,  उसके  mother was placed in a mental  हॉस्पिटल  , and he was  लगाई  in a  श्रेणी  of foster homes .
in  1946 , at age  20  , he  गई  to prison for  तोड़कर   और  entering .
in  prison , Malcolm X  became  a member of  the  Nation of  islam  ; after his parole in  1952  , he quickly rose to become one of  इसके  leaders  .
For a dozen years , Malcolm X was the public face of the controversial group , but disillusionment  साथ   स्वदेश  of Islam  सिर   इलियास  Muhammad led  उसे  to leave  the  Nation in March  1964  .
After a period  of   सफर   in  Africa  और  the Middle East , he returned to the United  राज्य  , where  he  founded Muslim  मस्जिदे  ,  inc.  and  the  Organization of Afro-American  एकता  .
In February 1965 , less than a year  बाद  leaving the Nation of Islam , he was assassinated by three  सदस्यों  of the group .
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs changed substantially over time .
As a spokesman for  the  Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black and white  अमेरिकी  —in contrast  to   the  civil  अधिकारों  movement 's emphasis on integration  .
After breaking  साथ  the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association with  it  , `` I did many  बाते  as a [  ब्लैक  ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now  .
I was a  प्रेत  then ... pointed in a certain  दिशा  and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim , he disavowed racism and expressed willingness  to   कार्य  with civil  अधिकारों   नेताओ  ,  he  continued to emphasize  pan-africanism  , black self-determination , and  self-defense  .
The third season of 90210 , an  अमरीकी   टेलीविज़न  series , premiered on Monday September 13 , 2010 .
the  CW officially renewed the show for a third season  on  February  16  , 2010 .
With the reveal of  the  networks fall 2010  अनुसूची  , they announced their decision to move  90210  to Monday nights at 8:00 pm  ,  as  a  lead-in to Gossip  लड़की  .
It premiered on September 13 , 2010 and was met with generally positive reviews from critics .
the  season  चयन  up  at  the end of summer and focuses on the students senior year of high  स्कूल  .
it  follows Adrianna 's  वृद्धि  to fame , a new  संबंध  between Silver  और  Navid and a confused Teddy who decides to reveal to his family and friends he  is   gay   .
It also deals with  the  aftermath of Naomi Clark 's assault .
नियमित   डाल  members for the season included Shenae Grimes ,  ट्रिस्टन  Wilds ,  annalynne  McCord  ,  Ryan Eggold , Jessica Stroup , Michael Steger , Jessica Lowndes  ,  Matt Lanter , Gillian  zinser  , Trevor Donovan  और  Lori Loughlin .
Rebecca Sinclair continued her role as executive producer for the season .
The season premiered  to  1.96 million viewers and a  0.9  rating in  the   वयस्कों  18–49 demographic .
christmas-themed  episode `` Holiday Madness '' , hit season highs  in   सब   कुंजी  demos with 2.1 in The CW 's target demo of women 18–34 , a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in  वयस्कों  18–49 .
It was also the most watched  एपीसोड  in over a year  साथ  2.2  लाख  viewers tuning in .
the  season finale aired on May 16 , 2011 .
the   ऋतु   averaged   1.75  million live  दर्शक  and a 0.9 adults 18–49  दरजा  .
It was released on DVD  in  the United  राज्य   on  August  30  ,  2011   .
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April  1926   )  is the  संवैधानिक   monarch  of 16 sovereign states  ,   ज्ञात  as  the  Commonwealth  realms  ,  और  their territories and dependencies  ,  and  सिर  of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
She is  परम्  Governor of the  गिरिजाघर  of  इंग्लैण्ड  and , in  कुछ   of  her realms  ,  carries the title  of  Defender of the  आस्था  as part  of  her full title .
on  her  accession  on 6 February 1952 , Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth  और  queen regnant of seven  स्वतंत्र  Commonwealth countries : the  संयुक्त   किंगडम   ,  Canada  ,  Australia ,  नई  Zealand  ,   दक्षिण  Africa , Pakistan and  ceylon  .
From 1956 to 1992  ,  the  क्रमांक  of her realms varied  as   territories  gained  स्वतंत्रता   और   कुछ  realms became republics .
at  present ,  in  addition to the first four  aforementioned  countries  ,  Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica ,  बारबाडोस  ,  the  Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea ,  the  Solomon  आइलैंड्स   ,   तुवालू  , Saint Lucia  ,  Saint Vincent and the  grenadines  , Belize ,  अण्टीगुआ  and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Her reign  of  years is currently the second longest  लिये  a  अंग्रेजों  monarch ; only Queen Victoria  रै  reigned longer at over 63 years .
Elizabeth  थी   born  in  लंदन  and educated privately  at   घर   .
Her father  acceded  to the  सिंहासन  as  जार्ज  VI in 1936 on the  abdication   of  his  bhai  Edward VIII ,  इससे  which time she was the  वारिस  presumptive .
She  began  to undertake public duties during the  दूसरी  World War , in which  वो   परोसा  in  the  Auxiliary Territorial Service .
In 1947  ,  she married Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh  ,  with whom she has four children : Charles , Anne  ,  Andrew , and Edward  .
उसके  coronation service  took  place  in  1953 and was the first to  be  televised  .
the  Queen 's many historic visits  और  meetings include a  राज्य  visit to the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and  इससे  the Pope .
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes  in  her realms , such as devolution  in  the United Kingdom and the patriation  of  the Canadian  संविधान   .
Times  of  personal significance have included  the  births and marriages of her  children   ,  the births of  उसके   grandchildren  ,  the  investiture of the Prince of  वेल्स   ,   और   the   जश्न  of milestones such as  उसके  Silver , Golden , and Diamond  jubilees  in  1977  , 2002  ,  and  2012  , respectively .
Major events in the  महारानी   's  reign have  शामिल   the  Troubles  in  Northern Ireland , the  falklands  War , wars with Iraq  और  the War in  अफगानिस्तान  .
There have  महरूम  times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of  उसके  father at 56 , the  हत्या  of Prince  फिलिप  's  ताऊ  , Lord Mountbatten  ,  the  विश्लेषण  of her  children   's  marriages in 1992  (   a  year deemed her  annus   horribilis  ) ,  the   मौत  in 1997 of  उसके  former  daughter-in-law  , Diana , Princess of Wales , and the deaths  of  her mother and sister in 2002 .
The Queen  रै  occasionally  faced  severe press criticism of the royal family and republican  sentiments  , but support for the monarchy  और  her personal  लोकप्रियता  remain high .
the   2010  United States Senate  चुनाव  in Florida took  प्लेस  on  नवम्बर  2 , 2010 along with other  चुनावों  to  the  United  राज्य   सीनेट  in other states as well as all elections to the United States House of Representatives and various state and local elections .
Republican Marco Rubio , former Speaker  of  the Florida House  of  Representatives , defeated independent  चार्ली  Crist and Democrat  kendrick  Meek in  a  three-way  रेस  .
One term Senator Mel Martinez was elected in a very close race against Democrat Betty Castor in 2004 with 49  %  of  the  vote .
Martinez  घोषित  on December 2 , 2008  कि  he would not seek re-election  to  the Senate , and would  इस्तीफा  prior  to  the end of his  पद   .
in  August 2009 , Governor Charlie  crist  announced  कि   he   होता  appoint  उसके  former Chief of  स्टाफ   ,  George LeMieux , a Republican  ,  to the Senate seat being  vacated  by Martinez .
राज्यपाल  Crist  सरेआम  announced he  थी  running for the  सीट  in mid-2009 .
at  the time he received many Republican endorsements ,  ऐसे  as the National  रिपब्लिकन  Senatorial  कमेटी   ,  Martinez ,  और   the  2008 Republican presidential nominee John McCain .
उसके  support of the American  रिकवरी   और   reinvestment  Act of 2009  ठेस  his popularity among conservatives , and candidate  मार्को  Rubio surged .
In April 2010 Crist announced he would  बूँद  out  of  the Republican primary and run as  an   स्वतंत्र   .
The National  रिपब्लिकन  Senatorial Committee withdrew its endorsement of  crist  and  मांगे  a refund of its  अभियान  funds that it provided for  the  Crist campaign .
कांग्रेसी   kendrick  Meek  थी  the  पहला  Democrat to declare his intention to run .
Alexander Snitker was the first member of the Libertarian Party  on   the   बैलट  for senator in Florida 's history .
Satellite view of  दोहा
दोहा  ( , ' or '  ,  literally : `` the big  पेड़  '' )  is   the   पूंजी  city of the state of Qatar .
Located on  the   coast  of  the   पारसी  Gulf ,
it had a population of  998,651  in 2008 , and  is  also one of the municipalities of Qatar .
Doha is  क़तर  's largest  नगर  , with over 60  %   of  the  स्वदेश  's population residing in Doha or its surrounding  उपनगरों  , and is also the economic centre of the  देश  .
Doha also serves as the  सीट   of   सरकारी  of Qatar , which is ruled by  शेख़  Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani .
Doha is home to the Education  नगर  , an  क्षेत्रफल  devoted to  शोध   और  education .
दोहा   थी  the site of the first ministerial-level  बैठक  of  the   दोहा  Development Round of World Trade Organization negotiations .
the  city of  दोहा  held the 2006 Asian Games , which was the largest Asian Games ever held .
दोहा  also hosted  the   2011  Pan Arab Games and most of the  खेल  at the  2011  AFC  एशियाई  Cup  .
Doha  hosted  the UNFCCC  जलवायु   negotiations  ( COP 18  )  December 2012 and will host a  विशाल   क्रमांक  of the venues for  the  2022  फीफा   संसार  Cup  .
The World Petroleum Council  आयोजित  the  20th   संसार  Petroleum Conference in Doha in  दिसम्बर  2011 .
Paranasal  साइनस  are  a   समूह  of  चार  paired air-filled spaces that surround the  nasal  cavity ( maxillary  साइनस  ) , above the eyes ( frontal sinuses ) , between the eyes  (  ethmoid sinuses )  ,  and behind the  ethmoids  ( sphenoid sinuses ) .
The sinuses are named for  the  facial bones  in  which they  हैं   स्तिथ  .
Lean  निर्माण  , lean enterprise , or  झुकना  production ,  प्रायः  simply  ,   ``  Lean ,  ''  is a production practice that  considers  the expenditure of resources for any  लक्ष्य   अन्य  than the creation of value for the end customer to be  अपव्यय   ,  and  यूँ  a target for elimination .
Working from the perspective of the  ग्राहक  who consumes  a  product or service , `` value '' is  पारिभाषित  as any action  or  process  कि  a  ग्राहक   होता   be  willing to pay for .
essentially  , lean  is  centered on preserving value with less work .
Lean  निर्माण   is  a management philosophy derived mostly  इससे   the  Toyota Production System (  tps  ) ( hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent )  और  identified as `` Lean '' only in  the   1990s  .
TPS is  प्रसिद्ध  for its focus  on  reduction of the original Toyota seven wastes to  improve  overall customer value , but  वहीँ  are varying perspectives on  कैसा  this is best  हासिल  .
The  स्थिर  growth  of   टोयोटा  , from a  छोटी  company to  the   संसार  's largest automaker , has focused attention on how it has  हासिल  this  कामयाबी  .
icarly  logo
icarly   is  an American sitcom that airs on Nickelodeon ,  जिससे  premiered on September 8 , 2007 .
Nickelodeon promoted  अनेक  episodes so  दूर  such as `` iDo '' ,  ``   ihire  an Idiot '' , `` iPity the Nevel '' ,  ``  iDate  sam  & Freddie '' , etc . as specials  ,  despite  उनके  being regular episodes .
प्रत्येक  episode title begins  साथ   a  lower  मामला  i which represents the internet , as in  ``  iCarly  ''  .
The show was nominated for an Emmy award for Outstanding Children 's Program  in  2009  .
The series starring Miranda  cosgrove  as  कार्ली  Shay , a 13-year-old who becomes an Internet star  .
The series ended  on  November 23 , 2012  साथ  the one-hour special episode  ``  iGoodbye '' .
A total of 7 seasons and 109  एपीसोड  were broadcast .
The largest audience of the  श्रेणी   थी  11.2 million viewers , with  the  special episode ``  isaved  Your Life '' premiered in January 2010  .
When Carly (  मिरांडा  Cosgrove  )  and  उसके  sassy best friend Sam (  jennette  McCurdy ) act  मजेदार  at  a   स्कूल  talent show audition , tech-savvy Freddie  (  Nathan Kress ) tapes it and posts it online without  telling  them  .
After seeing the girls ' strong chemistry and banter , the online audience clamors  लिये  more and the iCarly webcast is  born  .
While grappling with typical issues of adolescence , Carly  ,   sam  , and  फ्रेडी   ढूँढें  out that they have also  become   ऑनलाइन  celebrities as their  दिखाएँ   –  which features talent contests ,  व्यंजनों  , problem-solving  ,  and random dancing – garners international accolades .
कार्ली  lives in Seattle , Washington  साथ  her 26-year-old brother and  संरक्षक  Spencer ( Jerry Trainor ) and produces the show in a makeshift third-floor studio  मचान  in their apartment .
Their mother has never been seen or mentioned  ,   लकिन  their  पिता   ,  Steven Shay (  दाउद  Chisum ) , is  a  U.S.  एयर   फ़ोर्स  officer temporarily stationed  on   a  submarine , and  is  often mentioned  लकिन  is only seen  in  person during the series finale episode , `` iGoodbye ''  .
Westlife  यहूद  an Irish boy band which formed in 1998  और  disbanded in 2012 .
Originally signed by Simon Cowell and managed by Louis Walsh  ,  the group 's final line-up  consisted  of Nicky Byrne , Kian Egan , Mark Feehily  और  Shane Filan .
Brian  mcfadden  was a member from 1998 until  उसके  departure  in   2004  .
Westlife sold over 50  लाख  records worldwide , a total that included studio  एल्बम  ,  singles  , video  रिलीज  , and compilation  एल्बम  .
The group accumulated 14 number-one singles in  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom ( the third-highest  in  UK history ) , tying with  चट्टान  Richard  और   रैंकिंग  just behind The Beatles and Elvis Presley .
They  हासिल  a total of 26 top  टेन  singles over their 14-year  करियर  .
By 2010 ,  westlife  was listed in the Guinness World Records  ,  as the UK 's top-selling album  समूह  of the 21st century  .
They also won The Record of the  साल  (  the  only music award based on public votes  in  the  uk  )  a  record-breaking four times and in  2012  , the Official Charts Company listed  westlife  34th amongst the biggest-selling singles  कलाकारों  in British  म्यूज़िक  history .
Despite  उनके  European and Asian success  ,  Westlife never  प्रबंधित  to break into the  u.S.  market , achieving  तभी   एक  hit single in 2000 :  ``  Swear  it   again  `` .
In October 2011  ,  Westlife announced their intention to split in 2012  ,  following their Greatest Hits Tour and the  रिलीज  of  उनके  Greatest  हिट्स  album .
The boyband 's final concerts were held  on  22 and 23 June 2012 at Croke Park Stadium in Dublin  .
The first farewell  कॉन्सर्ट   ,  offering 85,000 tickets  ,  sold  आउट  in a record-breaking  5  minutes  और  the latter screened  सजीव  in  cinemas  worldwide .
विटामिन  A is  a  group  of  nutritionally unsaturated hydrocarbons , which include  रेटिनॉल   ,  retinal , retinoic  एसिड   और  several provitamin A carotenoids  among  which beta-carotene is the most important .
Vitamin A has  अनेक  functions , it is important  लिये   विकास  and development , for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision .
Vitamin  a  is needed by the retina of the eye in  the  form of retinal , which combines with protein opsin to form rhodopsin the light-absorbing molecule , that is necessary  लिये  both low-light ( scotopic vision ) and color vision .
Vitamin A also functions in a very different role as  an  irreversibly oxidized form of retinol known as retinoic acid , which is an important  hormone-like  growth  फ़ैक्टर   लिये  epithelial and  अन्य  cells .
in  foods of animal origin , the major form of  विटामिन  A  is  an ester  ,   primarily   retinyl  palmitate ,  जिससे  is converted to retinol ( chemically an  दारू  ) in the  छोटी  intestine .
the  retinol form functions as  a   भंडार  form  of   the  vitamin  ,  and  can  be converted to and  इससे   इसके  visually active  सुव्युद   रूप  , retinal  .
The associated  एसिड   (  retinoic acid ) ,  a   metabolite  that  can  be  irreversibly  synthesized  इससे  vitamin A ,  रै  only partial vitamin A  कार्यकलाप   ,  and does not function in the retina for the  विज़ुअल  cycle .
retinoic   एसिड  is used  लिये  growth and cellular differentiation .
All forms of vitamin A have a beta-ionone ring to which an isoprenoid chain is attached  ,  called a retinyl group .
Both structural  सुविधाएँ  are essential for vitamin  कार्यकलाप  .
The orange  रंजक  of carrots –  beta-carotene   –   can  be represented  as   दो  connected retinyl groups , which are used in the body  to   योगदान  to vitamin A levels .
Alpha-carotene and gamma-carotene also  have  a single  retinyl  group  ,   जिससे   दे  them some vitamin activity .
None of the other carotenes have  विटामिन   कार्यकलाप  .
The carotenoid  शर्तa-  cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone group and has vitamin activity in humans  .
Vitamin  a  can be found in two principal forms in foods  :
Retinol , the  रूप  of vitamin A absorbed when  खाने   एनिमल  food sources  ,  is a  पीला  , fat-soluble  पदार्थ  .
Since the pure alcohol form is unstable , the vitamin  is  found in tissues  in  a  रूप  of retinyl  ester   .
It  is  also commercially produced and administered  as   esters   ऐसे  as retinyl acetate or palmitate  .
The carotenes  alpha-carotene   ,  beta-carotene ,  gamma-carotene  ; and  the  xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all  of  which contain beta-ionone rings ) , but no other carotenoids  ,  function as provitamin A in herbivores and  सर्वाहारी   पशु  , which possess the enzyme  (   15-15'-dioxygenase  ) which cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa and converts it retinol .
In general  ,  carnivores are poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids  ,  and pure  carnivores  such as  बिल्लियों   और  ferrets lack 15-15'-dioxygenase and  can  not convert any  carotenoids  to retinal ( resulting in none of the  carotenoids   होने  forms of  विटामिन  A for these species ) .
Selena  मारी  Gomez ( born July 22 , 1992 ) is an American singer and actress .
वो   बना  her debut as a child actress in Barney & Friends .
In 2007 , Gomez came to prominence  as   a  starring cast  सदस्य  in the television series Wizards of  waverly  Place .
She signed  to  Hollywood  रिकॉर्ड  the following  साल  ,  और  became the  संस्थापक   और   सीसे  singer of the pop band Selena Gomez & the Scene .
Their  स्टुडियो  albums Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ) , A Year Without  बरसात  ( 2010 ) , and  जब  the Sun  goes  Down ( 2011 ) were  certified  Gold  by  the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA  )  and have spawned Platinum-certified  singles  `` Naturally ``  ,  `` Who Says  ``   ,  and `` Love You like a Love  सोंग   ``  .
After the release of  टेलीविज़न  films and their accompanying soundtracks , Gomez made her theatrical film debut  in  Ramona and Beezus in 2010 and  स्ट्रक्चर  in  मोंटे  Carlo in 2011  .
Upon the  निष्कर्ष   of   wizards   of  Waverly Place and  the  hiatus of Selena Gomez  &  the Scene in  2012  , she focused on her film career  ,  serving  as  a voice actress in Hotel Transylvania and starring in Spring Breakers the following year .
Her debut solo  एल्बम   is  tentatively scheduled to be released in summer 2013 , and is preceded by its lead single `` Come & Get It `` .
Outside of  उसके  work in the entertainment industry ,  गोमेज़  is involved  in  philanthropic activities through charity work and various social and environmental causes .
Tracie  monique  Spencer ( born July 12 , 1976 ) is an American R & B and pop singer-songwriter , actress , and model .
Sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   और  the seat of government  of  Sacramento  काउंटी  .
It  is  located at the confluence of the Sacramento River  और  the American River in the  उत्तरी  portion of California 's expansive  सेंट्रल  Valley  .
With an estimated 2011 population  of  477,891  ,  it is  the  sixth-largest city in California and  the  35th  largest   नगर  in the United States .
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic center of the Sacramento metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल   जिससे  includes seven counties with an estimated 2009  जनसांख्यिकी  of 2,527,123  .
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest  in   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  after  the  Greater Los Angeles Area , San Francisco  खाड़ी  Area , and the San Diego metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  ,  as   खूब   as  the 25th largest  in  the United  राज्य  .
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine as America  's   सबसे  ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002 .
Sacramento became a city  through  the efforts of the Swiss immigrant John Sutter  ,  Sr.  ,   उसके  son John Sutter , Jr.  ,   और  James W. Marshall  .
sacramento  grew quickly thanks to the  सुरक्षा   of  Sutter 's Fort , which  थी  established by Sutter in 1839 .
During the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  Gold Rush , Sacramento was a major distribution point , a commercial and agricultural center , and a terminus for wagon  रेल  ,  stagecoaches  , riverboats , the  टेलीग्राफ  ,  the  Pony  एक्स्प्रेस  ,  और  the  पहला  Transcontinental Railroad  .
California  राज्य  University , Sacramento , more commonly  ज्ञात  as Sacramento State or  सैक  State , is the  largest  local university .
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the California  राज्य  University system  .
drexel  University Sacramento  is   स्तिथ  in  शहर  , Sacramento  .
University  of  the Pacific 's  mcgeorge  School of  विधि  is located in the Oak Park neighborhood .
In addition , the University of California , Davis is  स्तिथ  in nearby Davis , west of the capital .
The  uc   डेविस  Medical Center ,  a  world-renowned  शोध   हॉस्पिटल  ,  is  located in the city  of  Sacramento .
Memorial Day is a United States federal  अवकाश  which occurs every year on the final Monday of May .
मेमोरियल  Day  is  a day of  remembering   the  men and women who died  जबकि  serving in the United States Armed Forces .
Formerly known as Decoration Day  ,  it originated  बाद  the American Civil War to  commemorate  the Union and Confederate  सैनिको  who died in the  सिविल  War .
by  the 20th  सदी   मेमोरियल  Day  था   महरूम  extended to honor all Americans who have died  in   सब  wars .
It typically  marks  the start of the summer vacation season , while Labor Day marks its end .
अनेक  people visit  कब्रिस्तान   और  memorials , particularly to honor those who have died  in  military service .
अनेक  volunteers place an  अमरीकी  flag on each  संगीन  in national  कब्रिस्तान   .
By the early  20th  century ,  मेमोरियल  Day  थी  an occasion for more general  expressions  of memory  ,  as people visited the graves of their  मृतक   रिश्तेदारों   in  church  कब्रिस्तान  , whether they  था  served  in  the military or not .
It also became a long weekend increasingly devoted to shopping , family gatherings , fireworks ,  यात्राएँ  to the beach  ,  and national  मीडिया   कार्यक्रम  .
Annual Decoration Days for particular cemeteries  हैं  held  on  a Sunday  in  late  वसन्त  or early summer in some  ग्रामीण  areas of the American South , notably in the mountains .
In cases involving a  परिवार   graveyard  where remote ancestors  as  well as those who were deceased more  recently   हैं  buried , this may take  on  the  अक्षर  of an  विस्तारित  family reunion  to  which  कुछ  people travel hundreds of miles  .
People  एकत्रित  on the  designated  day and put flowers  on   क़ब्रों  and  नवीनीकृत   सम्पर्क  with kinfolk and others .
There often is  a  religious service and a `` dinner  on  the ground , '' the  परंपरागत   पद  for a potluck meal in which people used to spread the dishes  आउट   on  sheets  or  tablecloths  on   the  grass .
It  is  believed that  इस   अभ्यास  began before the American Civil War and thus  may  reflect the real origin of the  ``  memorial  दिन  '' idea  .
Memorial  दिन  is not to  be  confused with Veterans Day ; Memorial Day is  a  day  of  remembering the men and  महिलाओं  who died while  सेवारत  ,  जबकि  Veterans Day celebrates  the  service  of  all U.S. military veterans , living or dead  .
Mt . Zion Church state history marker near Philadelphia  ,  Mississippi .
स्वतंत्रता  Summer ( also  ज्ञात  as  the  Mississippi Summer Project  )  was  a  campaign  in  the United States launched  in  June 1964 to  attempt  to  पंजीकरण  as many African  अमरीकी   मतदाता   as  possible in Mississippi ,  जिससे  had historically excluded most blacks from voting .
the  project also set up  दर्जनों  of  स्वतंत्रता   स्कूलों  , Freedom Houses ,  और  community centers  in  small towns throughout  मिसिसिपी  to  सहायता  the local  ब्लैक   जनसांख्यिकी  .
The  प्रोजेक्ट  was  व्यवस्थित  by the Council of Federated  संगठन  ( COFO  )  , a coalition of the Mississippi branches of  the   चार   प्रमुख  civil rights organizations ( SNCC  ,  CORE , NAACP  और  SCLC )  .
Most of the impetus , leadership , and financing for the Summer Project came from the SNCC .
रॉबर्ट  Parris  मूसा  , SNCC field secretary and co-director of COFO ,  निर्देशित  the summer project .
Blues  is  the  नाम  given to both  a  musical form and  a  music genre  कि  originated in communities of primarily the `` Deep South ``  of   the  United States  around  the end of the 19th century from  spirituals  , work songs  ,  field  hollers  ,  shouts   और  chants  ,   और  rhymed simple narrative ballads .
The blues  रूप   ,  ubiquitous  in  jazz  ,   लय  and blues , and rock and roll is characterized by specific  कॉर्ड  progressions , of which the twelve-bar blues chord progression is the most  आम  .
The blue notes that , for expressive  उद्देश्य  are  सुंग  or played flattened or  धीरे  bent ( minor 3rd to major 3rd ) in  संबंध  to the  पिच  of the major scale  ,  are also an important  भाग  of the sound .
The blues genre is based on the blues  रूप  but  possesses  other characteristics such  as  specific  गीत   ,  bass lines , and instruments .
Blues can be  subdivided  into several subgenres  ranging  from country to urban blues that were  अधिक  or less popular during different periods of the 20th century  .
बेहतरीन  known are  the  Delta  ,  Piedmont  ,   जम्प  , and  शिकागो  blues styles .
World War II marked the transition from acoustic  to  electric blues and the  प्रगतिशील  opening of  ब्लूज़  music to a  wider   दर्शक  , especially  श्वेत  listeners .
In  the  1960s and  1970s  , a hybrid form called blues-rock evolved .
The term `` the blues '' refers to the `` blue devils '' , meaning melancholy and sadness ; an early use  of  the term in this sense  is   मिला  in George Colman 's  one-act   तमाशा  Blue Devils ( 1798 ) .
Though  the   उपयोग  of the phrase in African-American music  may  be older , it has been attested to  चूंकि  1912 , when Hart  wand   's  `` Dallas  ब्लूज़   ``   became  the first copyrighted blues  संयोजन  .
In lyrics the phrase is often used to  describe  a depressed mood .
A quarter dollar  ,   commonly  shortened to quarter , is a coin worth 1⁄4  of  a United States dollar  or  25 cents .
The quarter has been produced  चूंकि  1796 .
The choice  of  25¢ as a denomination  ,  as opposed  to  20¢ which is more common in other parts of the  संसार  , originated with the practice of dividing Spanish Milled Dollars  into  eight wedge  तराशा  segments  (  cf. `` pieces of eight `` ) .
at  one time `` two bits `` ,  i.e  .  दो   wedges  , each  कील  an eighth , thus a quarter  of  the Spanish  रियल  ,  थी  a common nickname for  a  quarter .
दिन  of the Dead ( ) is a Mexican  अवकाश  celebrated throughout Mexico  और   around   the   संसार  in  अन्य  cultures .
the   अवकाश  focuses on gatherings  of   परिवार  and friends  to  pray for and remember friends and  परिवार   सदस्यों  who  have   died  .
It is particularly celebrated in Mexico ,  जहाँ  it  is  a national holiday , and all  बैंको  are closed .
the  celebration takes place  on  November 1 and 2 , in connection with  the  Catholic  छुट्टियाँ  of All Saints ' Day and  सब  Souls '  दिन  .
Traditions  कनेक्ट  with the  अवकाश  include building private  altars  honoring the deceased  using  sugar skulls , marigolds  ,  and the favorite foods and beverages  of  the departed  और  visiting graves  साथ   ये  as gifts .
They  भी  leave possessions of  the  deceased .
Scholars trace the origins of the modern Mexican  अवकाश  to  स्वदेशी  observances dating back hundreds of years  और  to an Aztec festival dedicated to the goddess Mictecacihuatl .
The holiday has spread throughout the world : In Brazil , Dia de Finados is  a  public holiday that many Brazilians celebrate by  visiting  cemeteries and churches  .
In Spain , there are festivals and parades , and  ,  at the end of the day  ,  people gather at cemeteries and pray for  उनके  dead loved  ones  .
Similar observances  occur  elsewhere in Europe , and  similarly  themed  जश्न  appear  in  many Asian and African cultures .
अनीता  Mk VIII .
the  ANITA Mark VII and ANITA Mark VIII calculators were launched simultaneously  in  late 1961 as the world 's first all- electronic desktop calculators .
Designed and  निर्मित   by  the  घंटी  Punch  co   .
in Britain , and  marketed  through its Sumlock  comptometer   प्रभाग  ,  वे  used vacuum tubes and cold-cathode switching  tubes  in their logic circuits and nixie tubes for  उनके  numerical displays .
They were the first  of   a   श्रेणी  of desktop and hand-held electronic calculators that the company was to develop and sell under the ANITA name into the mid-1970s .
George  वॉशिंगटन  ( –  ,  1799 ) was the first President of the United States ( 1789–1797 ) , the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War  ,  and one of  the  Founding  fathers  of the United States .
He presided over  the  convention that  drafted  the Constitution  ,  which  replaced  the  आलेख  of Confederation and  स्थापित  the position of President .
वॉशिंगटन  was elected President as  the  unanimous choice of the  69  electors in 1788 ,  और  he served two terms in office  .
He oversaw  the   सृष्टि  of a strong , well-financed national government that maintained  neutrality  in the wars raging  in  Europe , suppressed rebellion  ,  and won acceptance  among  Americans of all types .
His leadership style established many forms and rituals  of  government  कि  have  महरूम   प्रयुक्त  since ,  ऐसे   as  using a cabinet system and delivering an inaugural address .
further  ,  the  peaceful transition  इससे  his presidency  to  the  प्रेसिडेंसी  of John Adams established a tradition that  continues  into  the   21st   सदी  .
Washington  थी  hailed as `` father  of   उसके  country `` even  दौरान  his lifetime .
Washington was born into the provincial gentry of  औपनिवेशिक   वर्जिनिया  ; his wealthy planter family owned tobacco plantations and  स्लेव  .
After both his father and older brother died  जब  he was young , Washington became personally and professionally attached  to  the powerful William Fairfax , who promoted his  करियर  as a surveyor and  सिपाही  .
Washington quickly  became  a senior officer in  the  colonial forces  दौरान  the  पहला  stages of the French and Indian War .
Chosen by the  दूसरी  Continental  कॉंग्रेस   in  1775 to be commander-in-chief of  the   महाद्वीपीय  Army in the American Revolution , Washington managed to force the British out of Boston in 1776 ,  लकिन  was defeated and almost captured later that year when  he   खोया   नई  York City .
After crossing  the   डेलावेयर  River in the dead of winter  ,  he defeated the British in  दो  battles , retook New  जर्सी  and  लौटी  momentum to the Patriot cause .
क्युकी  of his strategy  ,  Revolutionary  शक्तियां  captured two  प्रमुख  British armies  at  Saratoga  in  1777 and Yorktown in  1781  .
Historians  laud  Washington for his selection and supervision of  उसके  generals , encouragement of morale and ability  to  hold together the  फौज  , coordination with  the  state governors and state militia units , relations  साथ  Congress and  ध्यान  to supplies , logistics  ,   और  training .
In  बैटल  , however , Washington was  repeatedly  outmaneuvered by British  सेनापतियों  with  larger   सेना  .
After  विजय   था   महरूम  finalized in 1783 , Washington resigned as Commander-in-chief rather than seize power , proving his opposition to dictatorship and  उसके  commitment to American republicanism .
असंतुष्ट   साथ   the   कमजोरियों  of the Articles of Confederation  ,  in 1787 Washington presided over  the  Constitutional Convention that drafted the United States Constitution .
Elected unanimously  as  the first President of  the  United States in 1789 , he attempted to bring rival factions together to unify the nation .
He supported Alexander Hamilton  's   कार्यक्रम  to  अदा  off all state and national debt , to implement  an  effective tax system  और  to create a  नेशनल  bank ( despite opposition from Thomas Jefferson ) .
Washington proclaimed  the  United States neutral in the wars raging in Europe after 1793 .
He avoided war with Great  ब्रिटेन  and guaranteed a decade of peace and profitable  व्यापार  by securing the Jay  सन्धि   in  1795 , despite intense  विपक्ष  from the Jeffersonians  .
हालांकि  never  officially   joining  the Federalist Party ,  he  supported its programs .
वॉशिंगटन  's Farewell  पता  was an influential primer on republican virtue  और  a warning against partisanship ,  sectionalism   ,   और   भागीदारी   in   विदेशी  wars .
He retired from the presidency in 1797 and  लौटे  to  उसके  home , Mount  vernon  , and  उसके  domestic  जीवन   जहाँ  he managed a  किस्में  of enterprises  .
he  freed all his slaves by his final will .
Washington had a vision of a great and powerful nation that would be built on republican lines using federal power .
He sought to use the national government to preserve  स्वतंत्रता  , improve  अवसंरचना  , open  the  western lands , promote commerce , found  a  permanent capital  ,   reduce   क्षेत्रीय  tensions and promote a spirit of American nationalism .
At his death , Washington was eulogized  as  `` first in war , first in peace , and first  in  the  दिल  of his  देशवासियों  '' by Henry Lee .
The Federalists  बना  him  the  symbol of their party but for  अनेक  years ,  the  Jeffersonians continued to distrust his influence and delayed building the Washington  स्मारक  .
As the leader of the  पहला  successful revolution against a  औपनिवेशिक   साम्राज्य  in world history , Washington became  an  international icon for  मुक्ति  and  राष्ट्रवाद  , especially  in   फ़्रांस  and  लैटिन  America .
Fiscal Year  2012  U.S. Federal Spending – Cash  or  Budget  आधार  .
फिस्कल  Year  2012   u.S.   संघीय  Receipts .
The Budget of the United States  सरकारी  often begins as the President 's proposal to  the  U.S. Congress which recommends  funding   स्तर  for the next fiscal year , beginning October 1 .
however   ,  Congress is the  देह  required by  विधि  to pass a budget annually and to  submit  the budget passed  by  both houses to the  अध्यक्ष  for signature  .
congressional  decisions are governed by rules and legislation regarding the federal  बजट  process .
Budget committees set spending limits for the  हाउस  and Senate committees  और  for  appropriations  subcommittees , which then approve individual  appropriations   बिल्स  to  allocate  funding to  विभिन्न   संघीय  programs .
If Congress fails  to  pass an annual  बजट  ( as has  महरूम  the case since 2009 ) ,  a  series  of  Appropriations bills must be passed as `` stop gap ''  उपायों  .
बाद  Congress approves an appropriations bill ,  it  is sent to the President  ,  who may sign it into law , or  may   वीटो  it ( as  he   होता  a budget when passed  by  the Congress ) .
A vetoed bill is sent back  to   कॉंग्रेस  ,  जिससे  can  pass   it  into  विधि   साथ   a  two-thirds majority  in  each chamber .
Congress may also combine all or some appropriations bills  into  an omnibus  reconciliation  bill .
In  जोड  , the  अध्यक्ष  may request and the  कॉंग्रेस  may  pass  supplemental appropriations  बिल्स  or emergency supplemental appropriations  बिल्स  .
Several government agencies  provide  budget data and analysis .
These include the Government Accountability Office ( GAO ) , Congressional Budget  दफ्तर  , the Office  of  Management  और  Budget ( OMB ) and the U.S.  राजकोष  Department .
ये  agencies  have  reported  कि  the federal government is facing a series of important financing  चुनौतियां  .
in  the  short-run  , tax revenues have declined  significantly   due  to a severe recession and tax policy choices , while expenditures  have   विस्तारित  for wars , unemployment insurance and  अन्य  safety net  बिता  .
In  the   long-run  , expenditures related  to  healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid are projected  to  grow faster than the  अर्थव्यवस्था  overall as the population matures .
नई  Guinea ( also , Tok Pisin : Niugini , Dutch : Nieuw Guinea ,  और  ; historically  :  Papua ) is the world  's  second largest island , after Greenland ,  covering   a  land area  of  786,000 km2 .
Located  in  the  दक्षिणपश्चिम   प्रशांत  Ocean , it lies geographically to the east  of   the  Malay Archipelago ,  साथ  which it is sometimes included as part of a greater Indo-Australian Archipelago  .
Geologically it is  a   भाग   of  the same tectonic  थाली  as Australia .
When world sea  स्तर  were low , the two shared shorelines ( which now  झूठ  100 to 140  मीटर  below  समुद्र  level ) , combining with lands  अभी  inundated into the tectonic continent of Sahul , also  ज्ञात  as Greater Australia .
The two landmasses became separated when the  क्षेत्रफल   अभी  known  as  the Torres  जलसन्धि  flooded after the end  of  the last glacial  काल  .
Anthropologically ,  नई  Guinea is considered part of Melanesia .
Politically , the western half of  the   द्वीप  comprises two Indonesian provinces : Papua and West Papua  .
The  पूर्वी   हाफ  forms the mainland of  the  country of Papua New Guinea .
The  द्वीप   रै   a   जनसांख्यिकी  of about 7.5 million  ,  with a very low population density of only 8 inh/km2 .
New  गिनी  is differentiated from its drier  ,   खुशामद  , and less fertile southern counterpart , Australia ,  by   इसके  much higher rainfall  और  its active volcanic geology  ,  with its  उच्चतम   पाइंट  ,  puncak  Jaya ,  reaching  an elevation of 4,884  m   (  16,023  ft   )  .
Yet the two  जमीन  masses share a  समान  animal fauna , with marsupials  ,  including wallabies and possums , and the egg-laying  monotreme  , the  spiny  anteater  ,  or echidna .
Other than bats and some two dozen indigenous rodent  genera  , there are no  pre-human  indigenous placental mammals .
Pigs , several additional species of rats ,  और   the  ancestor  of  the New Guinea Singing  श्वान  were introduced with  इंसान  colonization .
The human presence  on  the island  तिथियाँ  back at least 40,000 years to the oldest human migrations out  of   अफ़्रीकी  .
शोध  indicates that the highlands were an early  और  independent  बीच  of agriculture , with  प्रमाण  of irrigation going back at least 10,000 years .
क्युकी  of the time depth of its inhabitation and its highly fractured landscape ,  an  unusually high number of languages are spoken on the island  ,  with some 1,000 languages ( a figure higher than that  of  most  महाद्वीपों  ) having been catalogued  आउट  of an estimated world-wide pre-Columbian  कुल  of 6,000 human  dialects   .
Most are classified  as  Papuan languages , a generally accepted  भौगोलिक  term which a minority of  लेखक  hold  to  be a genetic one .
A number  of  Austronesian  भाषाएं  are  बोला  on the coast  और   on  offshore islands  .
in  the 16th century Spanish  explorers  discovered the island and  पुकारा   it   नुएवा   गिनी  .
In  हाल   इतिहास  western New Guinea was  शामिल  in the Dutch East Indies colony .
the  Germans  annexed  the  उत्तरी  coast of the eastern half of the island as German New Guinea in their  pre–world   युद्ध  I effort to  स्थापित  themselves as  a  colonial power  ,  whilst the south eastern portion was reluctantly claimed by Britain  .
Following the Treaty of Versailles  ,  the German portion was  awarded   to  Australia ( which was  already  governing the British  अर्जी  , named the Territory of Papua  )  as a  लीग  of Nations mandate  .
The eastern half  of   the  island was granted independence from  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  as Papua New Guinea in  1975  .
The western half gained independence from the Dutch in 1961 ,  लकिन  became part of Indonesia soon afterwards in controversial circumstances .
`` The  वैन  Buren Boys '' is the 148th episode of the sitcom Seinfeld , and name of a  fictional  New York  गली   गिरोह   .
Their sign is crossing the  हैंड्स  ,  साथ  one hand  साथ  all the fingers 'up ' and  स्प्रेड  out .
The other hand  रै   सब  but the  अंगूठा  and pointer finger  up  , for a total of eight (  8  ) .
The gang is named  लिये  the 8th President of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  मार्टिन   वैन   buren   (  who  थी  the first president from New York )  .
इस  was the 14th episode for the 8th  ऋतु  .
it  aired  on  February 6  ,   1997  .
bevo  sign
Bevo was a non-alcoholic malt beverage ,  or  near beer , brewed in the  संयुक्त  States by  the  Anheuser-Busch company beginning in the early 20th century  .
Bevo enjoyed its greatest success during the time of  निषेध  , when beer ,  वाइन   और  distilled  liquors  , were made  illegal  for thirteen  सालो  .
The Anheuser-Busch company started brewing Bevo when alcoholic beverages were  निषिद्ध  in 1916 by the United  राज्य  armed forces .
Production rose greatly with national prohibition in  1919  , and Bevo was  by  far the  सबसे  popular of  the   अनेक  ``  खाद्यान्न  beverages  ''  or  ``  near beers '' of the time .
At the peak of its popularity  in  the early 1920s , more than five  लाख  cases  of  Bevo were sold annually .
Renard with  a   मग  of Bevo ,  चित्रित  in terra cotta on  the  interior walls  of  the Bevo building  ,  St. Louis
Labels on the bottles billed  it  as `` Bevo  the  Beverage  ''  .
The  नाम   ``   bevo  ''  थी  coined  इससे  the word `` beverage '' and the Slavic language word for beer  ``  pivo '' , and was pronounced `` Bee-vo '' .
Some  bevo  advertising  प्रदर्शित  the  अक्षर  `` Renard the Fox `` ( based on the protagonist of a  मध्यकालीन  French folk-tale  )  ,  और   promotional  mugs with this character were  manufactured  .
In 1930  anheuser-busch  built a series  of  boat-bodied  गाड़ियाँ  in its St. Louis shops called the `` Bevo Boats '' which were used for  प्रमोशन  .
Seven are believed to have been built  on  Pierce-Arrow  8-cylinder  chassis while one surviving example was based upon 1930 Cadillac 353  v8  .
Billboard advertising Bevo in Trenton , New Jersey , 1917
A contemporary  विज्ञापन   पढ़ा  `` Cooling and invigorating  ,  Bevo the Beverage .
Order by  the  case from  अपना  grocer  ,  druggist , or dealer  .  ''
The paper label on the back of the bottle read `` The All-Year-Round Soft Drink  .
Appetizing - Healthful - Nutritious  -  Refreshing .
Milk or  जल  may contain bacteria .
BEVO never does . ''
bevo  became part of the popular culture of the time , and  is  mentioned in various popular songs and Vaudeville skits of the era .
इस  led  to  secondary slang uses of the word ; for example , in American  सैन्य   कठबोली  a young and  अनुभवहीन  officer  थी  called  a  `` Bevo  ''   .
the  University of Texas named its mascot `` Bevo '' , a name which has stuck to this day .
Irving Berlin included a paean to the drink , ``  तुम  Ca n't Stay Up on Bevo '' , in  उसके   1917  army revue  ,   यिप   यिप  Yaphank .
In the late 1920s  smuggled  bootleg beer and liquor as well as  ``  homebrew  ``  , cut into  bevo  's marketshare .
With sales flattening  to  100,000 cases by 1929 ,  anheuser-busch  stopped production  .
The Bevo Mill , St. Louis , in 2008
The Bevo building , with the  renard  character  prominently  displayed at the corners , still operates as a  bottling   सुविधा  at their main brewery in St. Louis  ,  Missouri .
The landmark Bevo Mill  ,  constructed by August Anheuser Busch  ,   sr.  in 1917 .
It was closed  in  2009 , but  it  reopened in October 2009  अंतर्गत  new  स्वामी  .
Bevo is also mentioned in the short story `` The Killers `` by Ernest Hemingway ; as well as in Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis .
Mylanta  is  an over the counter medication used  लिये  the  उपचार  of acid reflux , heartburn  ,   और   gastroesophageal  reflux disease ( also  ज्ञात  as GERD ) .
Foremilk and Hindmilk samples of human breast milk
A glass of pasteurized  गाय   मिल्क
Milk is a white liquid produced by  the   mammary   ग्रंथियों  of mammals .
It  is  the primary source of nutrition for young mammals  पहले  they are  समर्थ  to digest other types of food  .
Early- lactation milk contains colostrum , which carries the mother  's  antibodies  to  the baby  और  can reduce  the  risk of many diseases in the baby .
It also  contains  many other nutrients  .
As an agricultural product , milk is extracted from mammals and used as food  लिये   इंसानो   .
Worldwide , dairy farms  उत्पादित  about 730 million tonnes of milk in  2011  .
India is  the   संसार  's largest producer and consumer  of  milk , yet neither exports nor  imports   मिल्क  .
New Zealand ,  the  European Union 's 27 member states , Australia , and the United States are the world 's largest exporters of milk and milk products  .
चीन  and Russia are the  संसार  's largest  importers   of  milk  और  milk products .
Throughout the world , there  हैं   अधिक  than 6  अरब  consumers of milk and milk  उत्पाद  .
Over 750 million people  सजीव  within dairy farming households .
Milk is  a  key contributor to improving nutrition and food security particularly in developing  देशों   .
सुधार  in livestock and  दुग्ध  technology offer significant  वादा   in   reducing  poverty and malnutrition in the  संसार  .
Motorcycle speedway , usually referred to as speedway , is a motorcycle sport involving four and sometimes up to six riders competing over four anti-clockwise laps  of  an oval circuit .
Speedway motorcycles use  तभी  one gear and  have  no  brakes  and  रेसिंग  takes place on a flat  ओवल   track  usually consisting of dirt  or   loosely  packed shale .
Competitors use this surface to slide their machines sideways ,  powersliding  or broadsiding into the bends  .
On the straight  भाग   of  the track the motorcycles reach speeds of  up  .
The exact origins of  the  sport are  अनजान  but there is  प्रमाण   of  a type of  स्पीडवे  racing  होने  practised in the USA before the First World War and in Australia  in   the   लेट   1910s   और  early 1920s .
There are now both domestic and  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  competitions in a number  of   देशों   सहित  the  स्पीडवे   संसार  Cup whilst the highest overall scoring individual in the  स्पीडवे  Grand Prix events is pronounced the world champion  .
स्पीडवे  is  लोकप्रिय   in  central and northern Europe and to a lesser  extent  in Australia  और  North America .
a  variant  of   track  racing , speedway is administered internationally by  the  Fédération Internationale  de   motocyclisme   (  FIM ) .
Domestic speedway events are regulated  by   fim  affiliated national motor sport  federations  .
Vitamin D is a group  of  fat-soluble secosteroids responsible  लिये  intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate .
In  इंसानो   ,   the   सबसे  important related compounds of  विटामिन  D  हैं  vitamin D2  और  vitamin D3 .
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 )  हैं   अद्वितीय  as they constitute  कया  we  जान  as vitamin D and can be ingested from the  आहार  and/or supplements .
The body can also  synthesize  vitamin D  (   इससे  cholesterol ) when sun  एक्सपोज़र   is  adequate ( hence its  उपनाम  , the `` sunshine vitamin  ''  ) .
Although vitamin D is  commonly  called a vitamin  ,  it is not actually an essential dietary  विटामिन  in  the  strict sense  ,  as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts  by   सबसे   स्तनधारियों  exposed to sunlight  .
( Cats  और  dogs can not synthesize  विटामिन  D efficiently and must receive  it   in  their diet . )
an  organic  रासायनिक  compound  (   or  related set of  यौगिकों  ) is only  scientifically  called a vitamin when it can  नहीं  be synthesized in sufficient quantities by  an  organism , and must be obtained from  उनके  diet .
However , as with other  यौगिकों  commonly called vitamins , vitamin D was discovered  in  an effort to find the dietary substance that was lacking in a disease , namely , rickets  ,  the childhood form of osteomalacia .
Additionally ,  जैसे  other compounds  पुकारा   विटामिन  , in the  विकसित  world  विटामिन  D is added to staple foods  ,  such as milk  ,  to avoid  बीमारी  due  to  deficiency  .
Measures of serum  स्तर  reflect endogenous  संश्लेषण  from exposure to sunlight as well as intake from the diet ,  और  it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to  the  maintenance of adequate serum concentrations .
the  evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works  in  a feedback loop  कि  prevents toxicity but  ,   क्युकी  of uncertainty about  the  cancer  रिस्क  from sunlight , no recommendations  हैं  issued  by  the Institute of Medicine  ,  USA , for the amount of sun  एक्सपोज़र  required to meet vitamin  d  requirements .
Accordingly , the Dietary  सन्दर्भ   intakes  for vitamin  d  assume that no synthesis occurs and that all of a  व्यक्ति  's vitamin D is from their diet , although that  होगा  rarely occur in practice .
In  the  liver  विटामिन  D is converted to  calcidiol  , which is also  ज्ञात  as calcifediol ( INN )  ,  25-hydroxycholecalciferol , or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D  ;  and which is the specific  विटामिन  D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person  's  vitamin D status .
Part of  the  calcidiol  is  converted  by   the   गुर्दे  to calcitriol ,  the  biologically active form of  विटामिन  D.  calcitriol  circulates as a hormone in the blood ,  regulating   the  concentration of calcium  और  phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the  स्वस्थ  growth  और  remodeling of bone .
Calcidiol  is  also converted to  calcitriol  outside of the  गुर्दे  for other purposes ,  ऐसे  as the proliferation , differentiation  और  apoptosis of cells  ;  calcitriol also affects neuromuscular  फलन   और   सूजन  .
परे   इसके  use  to  prevent osteomalacia or  rickets   ,   the  evidence for other health effects of vitamin  d   supplementation   in  the general population is inconsistent .
The  बेहतरीन   प्रमाण  of  लाभ  is for bone health and a decrease in  मृत्यु  in elderly women .
The Duramax  is  a General Motors diesel engine family for  light-  and medium  ड्यूटी  trucks , designed by  isuzu   .
The  6.6-liter  Duramax  is  produced by DMAX ,  a  joint venture between GM and Isuzu in Moraine  ,  Ohio .
This engine was  initially  installed  in   2001  model year Chevy and  जीएमसी   ट्रक  and  रै  been an option  चूंकि  then in pickups  ,   वैन   ,  and medium-duty trucks .
in   2006   ,   उत्पादन  at Moraine  थी  reportedly limited to approximately  200,000  engines  प्रति  year .
On May 9 ,  2007  ,  dmax  announced the production  of   the  1,000,000th Duramax V-8  डीज़ल  at its Moraine facility .
Duramax LML
Balto  .
is  also a traditional written abbreviation  लिये  Baltimore , Maryland .
Statue  of   balto  in Central Park  (  New York  नगर  )
Balto ( 1919 –  कूच   14   ,  1933 ) was a Siberian  हस्की   sled   श्वान  who led  उसके  team on the final leg  of  the 1925 serum run to  nome  , in  जिससे   डिप्थीरिया   antitoxin  was transported from Anchorage  ,   अलास्का  , to Nenana  ,  Alaska , by train and then to Nome by dog sled to combat an outbreak of the disease .
the  run is commemorated by  the  annual Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race  .
Balto  थी  named  बाद  the  सामी  explorer Samuel Balto .
balto  died at the  आयु  of  14   .
Professor Stephen Hawking , known  लिये  being  a  theoretical physicist ,  रै  appeared in many works of popular  संस्कृति  .
The Nissan Maxima is a mid-size / entry-level  लक्ज़री   car  manufactured by Nissan , marketed as  the  `` four-door  खेल  car ''  .
The origins of the Maxima began  in  July 1976 as the Datsun 810 , an upscale six-cylinder  संस्करण   of  the Bluebird , and was spun  into  its own line in 1981 , having been made continuously since then .
the  ``  उच्चिष्ट  '' name was applied gradually , beginning in  1981   .
Most pre-2004 Maximas were built in  oppama  , Japan , until the current North American Maximas started  होने  assembled in Smyrna , Tennessee .
The ``  उच्चिष्ट  '' has also  महरूम  applied to Cefiros and  चलेगा  in various markets .
propolis  as hive  sealing
propolis  is a  resinous  mixture that honey bees collect from tree buds , sap flows , or other botanical  स्त्रोत  .
it  is used as a sealant for unwanted open spaces in  the  hive  .
Propolis is used for small gaps ( approximately or less  )  ,  जबकि  larger spaces are usually  भर  with beeswax  .
Its color varies  depending  on its botanical source , the  सबसे  common being dark brown .
propolis  is sticky  at  and above room temperature , .
At lower temperatures , it becomes hard  और  very brittle .
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor  tallarico   ;  March 26 , 1948 ) is an American singer , songwriter , and  multi-instrumentalist  , best known as the frontman and lead singer of the Boston -based rock  बैंड   एरोस्मिथ  , in which he  भी  plays the  हार्मोनिका  , and occasional piano  और   percussion  .
he  is known as  the  `` Demon of Screamin ' '' due  to  his high  चिल्लाती  and his  चौड़ी   गायन  range .
He is also known for his on-stage acrobatics  .
दौरान  his high-energy  प्रदर्शन  ,  he  usually dresses in bright , colorful  outfits  with  उसके  trademark scarves  फांसी  from his  माइक्रोफोन  stand  .
In the 1970s , Tyler rose  to  prominence as the frontman of Aerosmith , which released such milestone hard rock  एल्बम  as  खिलौने  in the  अटारी  and Rocks .
In the late 1970s and early 1980s  ,   टायलर  had a heavy  ड्रग   और  alcohol addiction ,  और  the band 's popularity  waned  .
he  completed drug rehabilitation in 1986 and subsequently  कायम  sobriety  लिये  over 20 years  ,  but had a relapse  साथ   नुस्खा  painkillers in the late 2000s , for which he  सफलतापूर्वक   प्राप्त  treatment in  2009  .
After Aerosmith launched a remarkable comeback in the late  1980s   और  early 1990s with the  एल्बम  Permanent Vacation , Pump , and Get a Grip , Tyler became a household name and has remained a relevant rock  प्रतीक  .
as  a result , he has since  embarked   on  several solo  endeavors  including  अतिथि  appearances  on   अन्य   कलाकारों  ' music , film  और  TV roles (  सहित  as a judge on American Idol ) , authoring a bestselling book ,  और  solo work (  सहित  a Top 40 hit  सिंगल  in 2011 ) .
However , he has continued to record music and perform with Aerosmith , after more than 43 years in the  बैंड  .
the  band 's latest album , Music from Another Dimension !
, was  released  on November  6   ,  2012 .
Tyler  is  included among Rolling Stones 100 Greatest  गायकों  .
He was also ranked 3rd on Hit Parader 's Top 100 Metal Vocalists  of  All  समय  .
In 2001 he was inducted into the Rock and  फेंकें  Hall of  कीर्ति  with Aerosmith , and he was the presenter  जब   ac/dc  was inducted into the Hall of  कीर्ति   in  2003  .
In 2013  ,  Tyler and his songwriting partner Joe Perry will be recipients of the ASCAP Founders Award  और  will also be inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame .
The liver produces urea  in  the urea cycle as a waste product of the digestion  of   प्रोटीन  .
Normal human adult blood should  contain  between 7 to 21  mg  of  यूरिया   नाइट्रोजन  per 100 ml  (  7–21 mg/ dL ) of blood .
Individual laboratories may have different reference ranges ,  और   इस  is because the procedure may vary  .
Wayne Fontes ( born February  2  , 1940 ) is a  पूर्व  American football coach  और  college and  पेशेवर  football  खिलाड़ी  who  थी  the head coach of the NFL 's Detroit Lions from 1988 to 1996 .
His  67  wins and  71  losses are  प्रत्येक  the  सबसे  for a head coach in team history  .
The Jews  (  ISO 259-3 Israeli pronunciation )  ,  also known as the Jewish people ,  हैं   a  nation and an ethnoreligious group , originating in the Israelites  or  Hebrews of the Ancient Near East  .
The Jewish ethnicity , nationality , and religion are strongly interrelated  ,  as Judaism is  the   परंपरागत  faith of the  यहूदी  nation .
Converts to Judaism , whose status as Jews within the  यहूदी   ethnos  is equal to those  born   into  it , have been absorbed  into   the  Jewish people  throughout  the  सहस्राब्दियों  .
In Jewish tradition  ,  Jewish  ancestry  is traced to  the  Biblical patriarchs  अब्राहम  , Isaac and Jacob in  the   दूसरी  millennium BCE  .
the   आधुनिक  State  of  Israel was  स्थापित  as a Jewish nation-state , and defines itself as such  in  its Basic Laws .
Its Law  of  Return grants the  सही  of citizenship  to  any Jew who requests it .
इसराईल   is  the only country where Jews are a majority  of  the population .
Jews  भी  enjoyed political autonomy twice  पहले   in   प्राचीन  history .
The first of these  अवधि   lasted  from 1350 to  586  BCE  ,  and encompassed the  अवधि  of the Judges , the United Monarchy  ,  and the  विभाजित  Monarchy  of   the  Kingdoms of Israel and Judah , ending with the destruction  of  the First Temple  .
The second was the  काल  of the Hasmonean Kingdom  spanning  from 140  to  37 BCE .
Since the  विनाश  of the First Temple , most  यहूदियों  have  जिया  in diaspora .
A  अल्पसंख्यक  in  प्रत्येक  country in which they live  (  except Israel ) , they  have  frequently experienced  persecution  throughout history  ,  resulting in a population that has fluctuated both in numbers and distribution over the centuries  .
The world Jewish population  पहुँचे  a peak of 15 million prior  to  the Second World War , but six  लाख  Jews  यहूद  killed  in  the Holocaust  .
Since  तब  the population has risen again and , was estimated at 13.4 million by  the   उत्तर  American Jewish Data Bank , or less than 0.2 % of the total world population ( roughly  एक  in every 514 people  )  .
According to this report ,  परिचय   42.5   %  of all Jews reside  in  Israel (  5.7   लाख  ) , and 39.3  %  in  the  United States ( 5.3 million ) , with most  of  the  शेष  living  in  Europe  (   1.5  million ) and Canada (  0.4   लाख   )  .
These numbers include  सब  those  जो  consider themselves Jews  ,  whether or not they are affiliated with a  यहूदी  organization .
the   कुल   संसार  Jewish population , however  ,  is difficult to measure .
In addition to issues with census methodology ,  वहीँ  are  halakhic   विवादों  regarding who is a Jew and secular  ,  political , and ancestral identification factors that may affect the figure considerably .
Corpus Christi procession .
Oil on canvas by  कार्ल  Emil Doepler .
Corpus Domini redirects here  .
For other uses see Corpus Domini ( disambiguation )
The Feast of Corpus Christi ( Latin for  देह  of  मसीह  ) , also known as Corpus Domini , is  a  Latin Rite  liturgical  solemnity  celebrating  the tradition  और   विश्वास  in the body and  रक्त   of   यीशु   मसीह   और  his Real Presence in the Eucharist .
It  emphasizes  the joy of the institution of the Eucharist ,  जिससे  was observed  on   पावन  Thursday in  the  somber atmosphere of the nearness  of  Good Friday .
in  the  उपस्थित  Roman  missal  , the feast  is  designated the  solemnity  of The  सबसे  Holy Body and Blood of Christ .
It  is  also  मनाये  in some Anglican ,  लूथरन  , and Old Catholic Churches that  थाम  similar beliefs regarding the Real Presence .
The feast is liturgically celebrated on the  गुरुवार   बाद   ट्रिनिटी   संडे  or , `` where the Solemnity of the Most Holy Body and Blood of Christ is  नहीं  a  पावन  Day  of  Obligation , it is  आबंटित  to the Sunday after  the  Most Holy Trinity as its  उचित  day ''  .
At the  समाप्त  of Holy Mass , there is often a procession of the Blessed Sacrament , generally displayed  in  a monstrance .
the  procession is followed by  सुनाकर  of the  धन्य   sacrament  .
A notable Eucharistic procession is  कि   presided  over by the Pope each  साल  in  रोम  , where  it  begins at the Archbasilica of  st.  John Lateran and makes  इसके  way to the Basilica  of  Saint Mary Major , where  it  concludes with Benediction .
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a protein found in the  रक्त  ,  the  levels of  जिससे  rise in  जवाब   to  inflammation ( i.e  .  C-reactive protein is  an  acute-phase protein ) .
Its physiological role  is  to bind to  phosphocholine  expressed  on  the  सतह  of  मुर्दे  or dying cells  (  and  कुछ  types of bacteria  )  in order  to  activate the complement system via  the  C1Q complex  .
CRP  is  synthesized  by   the  liver in  जवाब   to  factors released  by   macrophages   और  fat cells ( adipocytes ) .
It is  a   सदस्य  of the pentraxin family of proteins .
It is not related  to  C-peptide or protein C .
C-reactive protein  थी  the  पहला   पैटर्न   मान्यता  receptor (  prr  ) to be identified .
The start  of  the systematic European  colonization  of the  americas  is  typically  dated  to  1492  ,  when a  स्पेनी  expedition  headed   by   क्रिस्टोफर  Columbus  sailed  for India to open trade but inadvertently discovered the Americas .
यूरोपीय  conquest , large-scale exploration and  colonization  soon followed .
Seeing  कि  Europe was preoccupied with many  आतंरिक  wars  और   थी  slowly recovering from the many deaths that the bubonic plague caused ,  the  rapid  विस्तार  at which it grew in wealth and power  थी  unforeseeable  in   the  early 1400s .
The first expeditions occurred  साथ  the Caribbean coasts on the islands of  हिस्पानिओला   ,  Puerto Rico  और  Cuba , and after 1500 extended into the interiors of both North and South America .
In  1497  ,  sailing  from  the  north on behalf of  इंग्लैण्ड  ,  जॉन  Cabot landed on the North American coast  ,  and a year  बाद  , Columbus 's  तीसरा  voyage  पहुँचे  the South  अमरीकी  coast .
France founded colonies in much  of  eastern North  अमेरिका  , on  a  number of Caribbean islands ,  और  in South America .
Portugal colonized  ब्राज़ील  .
Eventually , the entire Western Hemisphere came under  the  control of  यूरोपीय  governments , leading to profound changes  to  its  लैंडस्केप  , population ,  और  plant and animal life .
In the 19th century alone over 50 million people left Europe for the Americas .
the  post-1492  era  is known as the period of the Columbian Exchange .
Keith Richards  (  born 18 December  1943  ) is an English musician , singer-songwriter and founder member of  the  English rock band the Rolling Stones .
Rolling Stone magazine said Richards  था  created ``  चट्टान  's greatest  सिंगल   देह   of  riffs ''  ,  ranking him 4th on its list  of   100  best guitarists .
Fourteen songs Richards wrote with the Rolling Stones ' lead vocalist Mick Jagger  हैं  listed among Rolling  स्टोन  magazine  's  ``  500  Greatest Songs of  सब  Time `` .
Richards ' notoriety for illicit drug use stems in part  इससे   अनेक  drug busts during the late  1960s  and 1970s and  उसके  candour regarding his addiction to and eventual abstinence from  हेरोइन  .
टेस्टोस्टेरोन  is a steroid hormone from  the  androgen group and  is  found  in  mammals , reptiles , birds ,  और  other vertebrates .
In mammals , testosterone  is   primarily   स्रावित  in the testicles of males  और  the ovaries  of  females  ,  although  छोटी  amounts are  भी  secreted by the adrenal glands .
It is the principal male sex hormone  और  an anabolic steroid .
In men , testosterone  plays  a  कुंजी  role in the  विकास   of  male reproductive tissues such as the testis and prostate  as  well as promoting secondary sexual characteristics such  as   increased   मांसपेशी  ,  अस्थि  mass , and the  विकास  of body hair .
In addition ,  टेस्टोस्टेरोन  is essential for health  और   well-being  as well as the prevention of  ऑस्टियोपोरोसिस  .
On average , in adult  इंसान  males ,  the   प्लाज्मा  concentration of  टेस्टोस्टेरोन  is about 7–8 times  as  great as the  विशेषज्ञता  in  वयस्क  human females ' plasma , but as the metabolic consumption of testosterone in  males  is greater , the daily production  is  about  20  times greater  in  men  .
Females also are more sensitive to  the  hormone .
Testosterone is observed in  सबसे  vertebrates  .
Fish make a slightly different form called 11-ketotestosterone .
Its  बंटवारा  in insects is ecdysone .
ये   सर्वव्यापी  steroids suggest that sex hormones have  an  ancient evolutionary history  .
Cluster sampling  is  a  sampling   तकनीक  used when  ``  natural '' but relatively homogeneous groupings are evident  in  a  सांख्यिकीय  population  .
It  is  often used in marketing research .
in  this  तकनीक  , the total population is divided into  ये   समूह  ( or clusters ) and a simple  यादृच्छिक  sample  of  the groups  is  selected .
Then the required information  is  collected  इससे  a simple random sample  of  the elements within each selected group .
This may be  किया   लिये  every element in these groups or a subsample of elements may be  चयनित  within each of these  समूह  .
A common motivation for cluster sampling is  to  reduce the total number of interviews  और  costs given  the  desired accuracy  .
Assuming a fixed  नमूना  size , the  तकनीक   देता  more accurate results when most of the variation in the population is  भीतर  the groups  ,  not  between  them .
Jamestown is a town in Guilford County ,  उत्तर  Carolina ,  संयुक्त  States , and is a suburb of the nearby cities of Greensboro and High Point  .
The population was  3,382   at  the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
Natalie Portman ( born Natalie  hershlag   ;  ; June 9 ,  1981  ) is  an  actress and model with dual American  और  Israeli citizenship .
Her  पहला  role  थी   as  an orphan taken in by  a  hitman in the 1994  कार्रवाई  film  ,  but  मुख्यधारा  success came when she was cast as Padmé Amidala in the  स्टार  Wars prequel trilogy (  released  in 1999 ,  2002  and 2005 ) .
in  1999 , she enrolled  at   हार्वर्ड   विश्वविद्यालयों  to study psychology while  स्टिल  working as  an  actress .
She completed  उसके  bachelor 's degree in 2003 .
In 2001 , Portman opened  in   नई  York  नगर  's Public Theater production of  एंटोन  Chekhov 's The Seagull .
in  2005  ,  Portman received a  नामांकन  for the Academy Award for  बेहतरीन  Supporting  अभिनेत्री  and won the Golden Globe Award for Best  supporting  Actress - Motion Picture  लिये  the drama Closer  .
She won a  नक्षत्र  Award for Best Female Performance and a Saturn Award for Best Actress for  उसके  starring role  in  V  लिये   वेंडेट्टा  ( 2006 )  .
She played leading roles in  the  historical  dramas  Goya 's Ghosts  (  2006 ) and The Other Boleyn  लड़की  (  2008  ) .
In May 2008 ,  वो  served as  the  youngest member  of  the 61st  सालाना  Cannes Film Festival jury  .
Portman 's directorial debut , Eve ,  खोली  the 65th Venice International Film Festival  's  shorts competition  in   2008   .
Portman directed a  खण्ड  of the collective film New  यॉर्क  , I Love You .
In 2011 , Portman  जीती  the Academy Award , the Golden Globe Award ,  the  BAFTA Award , the Screen Actors Guild Award  ,  and the Independent Spirit Award for her lead performance as Nina Sayers in Black Swan .
Copper is a chemical element with the symbol Cu ( from ) and atomic number  29  .
It is a ductile metal  साथ  very high  थर्मल   और  electrical conductivity  .
Pure copper  is   नरम  and malleable ; a  freshly  exposed surface  रै  a reddish-orange color .
It is used as a conductor of heat and electricity , a building  सामग्री  , and  a  constituent  of  various metal alloys  .
The metal and its alloys have been used for  हज़ारों  of years .
In  the  Roman era  ,  copper was  प्रधानतया  mined on  साइप्रस   ,  hence the origin of the name of  the  metal  as  сyprium (  मेटल  of Cyprus )  ,  later  shortened   to  сuprum .
इसके   यौगिकों  are commonly encountered as copper ( II ) salts ,  जिससे  often impart blue or green  रंगों   to   खनिज  such as  azurite  and  फ़िरोज़ा  and have been widely used  historically  as pigments .
Architectural structures built with copper corrode  to  give green verdigris ( or patina  )   .
Decorative  आर्ट  prominently  सुविधाएँ   तांबे  , both by itself and  as  part  of  pigments .
Copper is  अनिवार्य  to all  जीना   जीवों   as  a trace  dietary  mineral because  it   is  a key constituent of the respiratory enzyme complex cytochrome c oxidase  .
in  molluscs and  crustacea  copper is  a  constituent of the blood pigment hemocyanin  ,  which is replaced by the iron-complexed hemoglobin  in  fish and other vertebrates .
the  main areas where copper is found in vertebrates  हैं  liver , muscle and bone .
In sufficient concentration ,  तांबे   यौगिकों  are poisonous to higher organisms and  हैं  used as bacteriostatic substances , fungicides , and wood preservatives .
the  major professional  खेल  leagues  ,  or simply major leagues , in the United States and  कनाडा  are the highest professional competitions of team sports in  the  two countries .
Although individual sports such as golf , tennis , and auto racing are also  बहुत  popular , the  पद  is  प्रायः  limited  to  team sports .
The  पद  `` major  लीग  '' was first used in 1921 in reference to Major  लीग  Baseball ( MLB ) , the top level of  पेशेवर  American baseball .
आज   ,   the   प्रमुख  northern  उत्तर  America professional  टोली  sports  लीग   हैं  Major League Baseball ( MLB ) , the National Basketball Association ( NBA  )  , the National Football League  (  NFL  )   ,   और  the  नेशनल  Hockey League ( NHL )  .
Other notable  लीग  include  प्रमुख   लीग  Soccer ( MLS ) ,  the  Canadian  फ़ुटबॉल  League (  cfl  ) , the Arena Football  लीग  , Major League  lacrosse  , the  नेशनल  Lacrosse League and the Women  's   नेशनल  Basketball Association .
The NFL , MLB  ,   एनबीए  , and NHL are commonly referred to as  the  Big  चार  .
Each of these is the richest professional club competition in  इसके  sport worldwide .
The best players can become cultural  प्रतीक   in  both countries and elsewhere in the world , because the leagues enjoy a significant place in  लोकप्रिय  culture in the US and  कनाडा  .
The NFL has  32  teams , and  the  others  have  30 each .
The vast majority of major league  टीमों   हैं  concentrated  in   the  most populous metropolitan areas of the United States  .
Baseball , football , hockey  ,  and soccer have had professional leagues for over  100  years  ;  early leagues such  as  the National Association  ,  Ohio League  ,  and  नेशनल  Hockey Association formed the basis  of  the modern MLB ,  एनएफएल   और   एनएचएल  respectively .
Soccer was first  professionalized  in 1894  ,  but leagues suffered  greatly  from lack of sustainability and seldom lasted  अधिक  than a decade  .
Soccer 's greatest successes were in the form of the American Soccer League ( 1921-1933 ) , the original  उत्तर  American Soccer League ( 1968-1984 )  ,  the National Professional Soccer League (  1984-2001  ) and , currently , Major  लीग  Soccer  (   1996-present  ) .
Basketball is a relatively new development ; the NBA  विकसित  from the National Basketball League and its splinter  समूह  the Basketball Association of America , taking  on  its current form in 1949 .
Every major league averages 15,000 fans in  उपस्थिति  per game or higher as of  2011  .
Meridian Altitude is an astronomical navigation  विधि  of  calculating  an observer 's latitude .
Earned value management ( EVM  )  , or Earned value project/performance management ( EVPM ) is  a  project management technique for measuring project  प्रदर्शन  and progress in  an  objective  manner   .
Because EVM has the ability to combine measurements of :
scope
schedule
और   cost,
in a single integrated system  ,  Earned  मान  Management is able to provide  सटीक  forecasts of project performance problems  ,  which is an important  योगदान  for project  प्रबन्धन  .
Early EVM research  दिखाया   कि   the   क्षेत्रों  of planning and control are significantly impacted by its use  ;  and  similarly  , using  the  methodology  improves  both scope definition as well as the analysis of overall  प्रोजेक्ट  performance  .
More recent research studies have shown that the principles of EVM are positive predictors  of  project success  .
Popularity of EVM has grown significantly in recent years beyond government contracting ,  in  which sector its importance continues to  वृद्धि  ( e.g. , recent new DFAR rules  )   ,  in part because EVM can also surface in and help  substantiate  contract disputes .
Colorful spring garden flowers
Spring is one of  the  four conventional temperate seasons , following winter and preceding summer .
There  हैं  various technical  परिभाषाएं  of spring  ,  but local usage of the term varies  according  to local climate ,  संस्कृतियों   और  customs  .
When it is  वसन्त  in the northern hemisphere  ,  it will be autumn in  the  southern hemisphere .
At  the  spring equinox  ,  days are close  to   12   घंटों  long with day length increasing as the season progresses .
वसन्त  and `` springtime '' refer to the season , and  भी  to ideas of rebirth ,  कायाकल्प  ,  नवीकरण  , resurrection , and regrowth , with festivals such as Carnival  ,  Easter and Holi being  मनाये  at  इस   समय  .
Jamestown  थी   a   उपनिवेश  in the Colony of Virginia , the first permanent English  उपनिवेश  in the Americas .
स्थापित  by the Virginia Company of London as `` James Fort ''  on  May 14 ,  1607  ( O.S . , May  24  ,  1607   n.s  . ) , it followed several earlier failed attempts , including  the  Lost Colony of Roanoke .
Jamestown served as  the  capital of the colony for 83 years , from 1616 until 1699 .
the   उपनिवेश   थी  located within the territory of a political entity known as Tsenacommacah , the state  of  the Powhatan  confederacy  , with around  14,000  native inhabitants , and  specifically   थी  in part of  the  subdivision known as the  paspahegh  tribe  .
The  natives  initially  सत्कार  the colonists with dancing , feasting  और   तम्बाकू  ceremonies , and they provided crucial  प्रावधानों  and support for the survival of the  colonists  , who were  नहीं  agriculturally inclined ,  हालांकि   संबंध  with the newcomers also soured fairly  जल्दी  on  ,  leading to the total annihilation of the  paspahegh  in warfare within 3 years .
Within a year of Jamestown 's founding , the Virginia Company brought Polish  और  Dutch colonists  to  help improve the settlement .
In 1619 , the  पहला  documented Africans  यहूद  brought to  jamestown  , though the  आधुनिक  conception  of   गुलामी  in  the  future United States did  नहीं  begin  in  Virginia until  1660  .
जब  the colony  थी  subdivided into the  असली   आठ  shires of Virginia in 1634 ,  the  town became located in the eponymous James City Shire .
The  लंदन  Company 's  दूसरी  settlement  ,  Bermuda ,  दावा  to be the site of the oldest  कस्बा   in   the  English New World , as St. George  's   ,  Bermuda was officially established (  as  New London ) in  1612   ,  whereas James Fort , in Virginia , was not to be converted into James towne until 1619 ,  और  further did  नहीं  survive into the present day .
In  1699  , the capital was relocated from Jamestown to what is  आज  Williamsburg , after  जिससे  Jamestown ceased  to   मौजूद   as  a  उपनिवेश  ,  मौजूदा  today only  as  an  पुरातत्व  site .
Today , Jamestown  is  one of three locations comprising the Historic  त्रिभुज  of  औपनिवेशिक  Virginia  ,  along with Williamsburg and Yorktown , with two primary heritage sites .
Historic Jamestowne , the archaeological site  on   jamestown  Island ,  is   a   सहकारी  effort  by  Jamestown National  ऐतिहासिक  Site (  भाग  of Colonial National Historical Park )  ,  and Preservation Virginia .
The Jamestown Settlement  ,   a  living history interpretive site , is operated  by  the Jamestown Yorktown Foundation in  संयोजन  with the Commonwealth of Virginia .
James Christopher Frey (  born  September  12  , 1969  )  is an American writer .
His books A Million Little Pieces  (  2003  )  and  my   dost  Leonard ( 2005 ) , as well as Bright Shiny  morning   (  2008  )  , were bestsellers  .
he  was the subject of  a  scandal when investigators discovered that prison time and the extent  of  certain injuries were exaggerated in A Million  छोटी   टुकड़े  , a purportedly autobiographical  खाता   of  the author 's struggle with addiction .
deere  & Company ,  सबसे  commonly known  by  its name John Deere  ,  is an  अमरीकी   निगम  based in  moline  , Illinois  ,  and one of the largest manufacturers of agricultural machinery in the world .
In 2012 ,  it  was  सूचीबद्ध  as 97th in the Fortune  500  America 's ranking and  190th  in the Fortune  500   वैश्विक  ranking .
Deere and Company agricultural  उत्पाद  , sold under the John Deere  नाम   ,  include tractors  ,  combine harvesters ,  कपास  harvesters , balers , planters / seeders , sprayers  ,   और  UTVs  .
The company is also a  निर्माता  of  निर्माण   उपकरण  and forestry equipment ,  as  well  as  a supplier  of  diesel engines  और   drivetrains  (  axles  , transmissions  ,   gearboxes   )   प्रयुक्त   in  heavy equipment .
Additionally , John Deere  manufactures  equipment used in lawn ,  grounds   ,   और  turf  परवाह  ,  ऐसे  as walk-behind lawn mowers , zero-turn lawn mowers  ,  lawn tractors , and snowthrowers .
To  support  the core businesses , John Deere also provides  वित्तीय  services  और  other  सम्बन्धित  activities  .
the   कम्पनी  's slogan is ``  nothing  Runs Like a  deere  '' and  रै  a picture of a leaping deer as a logo , a word play pun on `` nothing  रनों  like  a   हिरण  '' .
Carl Westby coined the phrase  ``  Nothing Runs Like a Deere ''  लिये  a marketing campaign to  बेचें  snowmobiles .
the   कम्पनी  's products are also identifiable  by  its  distinctive  shade of green paint , usually augmented by yellow  trim  .
The  संयुक्त   राज्य  ten-dollar bill (  $  10 ) is a denomination of  संयुक्त  States currency .
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury  (  1789–95 )  ,  Alexander Hamilton , is currently featured on the obverse  of  the bill , while  the  U.S.  राजकोष  Building is featured on the reverse .
( Hamilton is  एक  of  दो  non-presidents featured on currently issued U.S. bills .
The other is Benjamin Franklin  ,  on  the  $ 100 bill .
Hamilton is one of only four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who was not born in the continental United States , as he was from the  वेस्ट  Indies .
The others  हैं  :  अल्बर्ट   gallatin  ,  स्विट्ज़रलैंड  ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ;  जार्ज   meade  , Spain ( $  1,000  1890/91 Treasury Note ) ; and Robert Morris ,  इंग्लैण्ड  ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender  ;  $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ) .
In  जोड  , Kamehameha I ,  appears  on the  2008   हवाई  state  क्वार्टर  . )
All $ 10 bills issued today  हैं  Federal Reserve Notes  .
The Bureau  of  Engraving and Printing says the average  जीवन  of a $ 10 bill in circulation is  18  months before  it   is  replaced due to  पहनें  .
Approximately 6 % of all US  banknotes  printed in 2009 were $ 10  बिल्स  .
Ten  डालर   बिल्स  are delivered by Federal Reserve Banks  in  yellow straps .
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait  of  Hamilton that belongs to the portrait collection of  नई  York City Hall .
The $  10  bill is the only U.S.  पेपर  currency in circulation in which the portrait faces to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill  प्रदर्शित  a portrait of Woodrow Wilson facing  to   the  left  ,  but was used only for intra-government transactions  )   .
Andy  सैमुएल  Griffith  (  June 1 , 1926 –  जुलाई   3   ,   2012  )  थी  an American  कर्ता  , television  निर्माता  , Grammy  पुरस्कार  -winning Southern-gospel  सिंगर  , and writer .
He was a  टोनी  Award nominee for two roles , and gained  prominence  in the  अभिनीत  role in director Elia Kazan 's  फिल्मी  A Face in the Crowd (  1957  ) before  he  became better  ज्ञात  for his television roles  ,   playing   the  lead characters  in  the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama  matlock   .
Theresa Penelope `` Terri '' Irwin , ( née Raines ; born July 20 , 1964 ) is an Australian  -आधारd  ,  अमरीकी   -born  naturalist , author ,  the  widow of Australian  naturalist  Steve Irwin and owner  of  Australia Zoo at Beerwah ,  क्वींसलैंड  ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
She co-starred with her  husband  on The Crocodile Hunter , their  unconventional  television nature documentary series along with  इसके  spin-off series ,  क्रोक   फाइलें   और  The Crocodile Hunter Diaries .
She  रै  lived in Australia since 1992 ,  जब  she married Steve Irwin .
Andreas Cellarius 's illustration of the Copernican system , from the Harmonia Macrocosmica  (  1660 ) .
Heliocentrism , or heliocentricism  ,  is the astronomical model  in  which  the  Earth and planets  revolve  around a relatively stationary Sun at the center of  the  Solar System .
The  शब्द  comes from the Greek ( helios  ``   सूर्य  '' and kentron  ``  center '' )  .
Historically ,  heliocentrism  was opposed to geocentrism  ,  which placed the Earth at the center  .
The  ख़्याल  that  the  Earth  घूमती  around the  सूर्य  had been proposed  as   जल्दी  as the  3rd   सदी   bc  by  aristarchus  of Samos , but  aristarchus   's  heliocentrism attracted little  ध्यान  until Copernicus  revived   और  elaborated it .
Lucio Russo  ,  however ,  argues  that this is  a   भ्रामक  impression resulting from the loss of scientific works of the Hellenistic  era  .
Using indirect evidence he  argues  that a heliocentric view was expounded  in  Hipparchus 's work on gravity .
It was not  जबतक  the 16th century that a fully predictive mathematical model  of  a  heliocentric  system was  प्रस्तुत  , by the Renaissance mathematician , astronomer , and Catholic  मौलवी  Nicolaus Copernicus of Poland , leading to the Copernican Revolution .
In the  following  century  ,  Johannes Kepler elaborated upon and expanded this model to include elliptical orbits , and supporting observations made using a  दूरदर्शी   यहूद   प्रस्तुत  by Galileo Galilei .
साथ  the observations of William Herschel , Friedrich Bessel , and others , astronomers realized that the sun was not the center of the universe and by the  1920s   एडविन  Hubble had  दिखाया   कि  it  थी  part of a galaxy  (   the   मिल्की  Way ) that was only one of many billions .
Norah Jones ( born Geetali  नोराह  Jones  शंकर  ; March 30 , 1979 ) is an  अमरीकी  singer-songwriter  ,  pianist ,  और  actress  .
She is the daughter of Indian sitar player Ravi Shankar and Sue Jones .
She is also Anoushka Shankar 's half-sister .
In 2002 ,  वो   शुभारम्भ   उसके  solo music career with the release  of  the commercially successful and  critically  acclaimed  एल्बम  Come  दूर  with Me , a fusion of country music  और  pop with  तत्व   of  jazz which was certified diamond album ,  selling  over 26 million copies .
The record earned Jones five Grammy  पुरस्कार  ,  सहित  the Album of the Year , Record of the Year , and  बेहतरीन  New Artist  .
Her  subsequent  studio albums , Feels Like  घर  , released  in   2004   ,  Not  too  Late , released in 2007 , the same year  वो  made her film debut in My Blueberry Nights , and her 2009 release The Fall all gained Platinum status ,  selling  over a million copies and were generally  खूब  received  by  critics .
Jones  '  fifth studio album , Little Broken  दिल  , was released on April 27 ,  2012  .
Jones has won nine Grammy Awards and was 60th  on  Billboard magazine 's artists of the 2000–2009  दशक   चार्ट  .
throughout  her career , Jones has won  numerous  awards and has  बेची  more than  50   लाख  albums worldwide .
Billboard  नामित   उसके  the top jazz artist of the 2000–2009 decade .
Not to be confused with  आयाम  of a physical quantity .
For other uses , see  आयाम  ( disambiguation ) .
From left  to   सही  , the  वर्गाकार  , the cube , and the  tesseract  .
The square is bounded by 1-dimensional  लाइनों  , the cube by 2-dimensional areas ,  और  the tesseract  by  3-dimensional  आयतन  .
a  projection of the cube is given since it is viewed  on  a two-dimensional screen .
The  वही  applies to the  tesseract  , which additionally can only be shown as  a   प्रक्षेप   भी  in three-dimensional  स्पेस  .
A diagram showing the  पहला  four spatial dimensions .
In physics  और  mathematics , the dimension of a space  or  object is informally defined as the minimum number of coordinates needed to specify any point within  it  .
Thus a  लकीर  has a dimension of one because only  एक   निर्देशांक   is  needed  to  specify a point on  it  ( for example ,  the  point at 5 on a number line ) .
A  सतह  such as  a   प्लेन  or  the  surface  of   a   बेलन   or  sphere has a dimension of  दो  because  दो  coordinates are needed  to  specify a point  on  it ( for example , to locate a point  on  the surface of a sphere you need both its latitude and  इसके  longitude  )  .
The  अंदर  of a cube , a cylinder or a sphere is three-dimensional  क्युकी  three coordinates  हैं  needed to locate a  पाइंट  within these  स्पेसेस   .
In physical terms ,  आयाम  refers  to   the  constituent structure of all  स्पेस  ( volume ) and its position  in  time ( perceived as a  अदिश  dimension along the t-axis ) , as  खूब   as   the   स्थानिक  constitution of objects within—structures that correlate with both particle and field conceptions ,  interact  according  to  relative properties of mass —and are fundamentally mathematical in description .
These , or other axes ,  may   be  referenced to uniquely identify a point or  ढांचा   in  its  रवैया  and relationship to other objects and occurrences .
Physical theories that incorporate time ,  ऐसे  as  सामान्य   आपेक्षिकता   ,   हैं  said to work in  4-dimensional  `` spacetime `` ,  (  defined as a Minkowski  स्पेस   )  .
आधुनिक  theories tend to be  ``  higher-dimensional '' including quantum field and string theories  .
The state-space  of  quantum  यांत्रिकी  is an  infinite-dimensional  function space .
The concept of dimension is  नहीं  restricted to  शारीरिक  objects .
High-dimensional spaces occur in  गणित  and the  sciences  for many reasons , frequently  as  configuration  स्पेसेस  such as in Lagrangian or Hamiltonian  यांत्रिकी  ; these are abstract spaces , independent of the physical space we live  in  .
Fontana ( ) is  a  city of  200,762  residents in San Bernardino County , California .
Founded  in   1913  , it remained essentially rural until World War  ii  , when entrepreneur Henry  J.   कैसर   निर्मित  a large steel mill in the area  .
It  is   अभी  a regional  हब   of  the trucking industry , with  अंतरराज्यीय  10  और   राज्य  Route 210 transecting  the   नगर  from east  to   वेस्ट  ,  और  Interstate  15   गुजर  diagonally through its northwestern quadrant .
it   is  home to the largest  of   the  San Bernardino  काउंटी   प्रणाली  libraries , a renovated historic theater , a municipal park , and the Auto  क्लबों  Speedway on the site of the Kaiser Steel Mill .
Fontana also hosts the Fontana Days Half Marathon and 5K run  .
This race is the fastest half-marathon  कोर्स  in  the  world .
The U.S. 2012 Census reported that Fontana  's  population was 200,762 in 2012 , making it the second most populous city in San Bernardino county county and 14th in the state  .
Cowboys  स्टेडियम  is a  स्टेडियम   साथ   a   retractable  roof in Arlington ,  टेक्सास  .
It serves as the home of the National Football  लीग  's Dallas Cowboys .
It replaced the partially covered Texas Stadium , which opened  in  1971  ,  and  परोसा  as the Cowboys ' home  through   the  2008 season  .
It was completed on  may  27  ,  2009  .
The stadium seats 85,000 ,  बनाना  it the third  largest  stadium  in  the  एनएफएल  by seating capacity .
The maximum capacity of  the  stadium , including  खड़ा  room ,  is  105,000  .
The Party Pass ( open areas ) sections are behind seats in each end zone and on a  श्रेणी  of six  elevated  platforms  कनेक्ट  by stairways .
It has the  संसार  's largest column-free interior and the fourth largest  ऊँची  definition  वीडियो   स्क्रीन  , which hangs from 20 yard line  to  20 yard line  .
The facility can also  be  used for  a   किस्में  of other activities outside of its main purpose (  पेशेवर  football )  ऐसे  as concerts , basketball games , boxing matches  ,  college football and high  स्कूल  football contests , soccer matches , and  motocross   दौड़  .
Canadian  इतिहासकारों  until the 1980s tended to focus on economic history ,  सहित  labour history .
In part this is  क्युकी  Canada has had  दूर  fewer  राजनैतिक  or  सैन्य  conflicts than other  समाजों  .
इस   थी   विशेषकर  true in  the   पहला   हाफ  of the  बीसवीं  century  जब  economic history  थी  overwhelmingly  प्रबल  .
Many of the most  prominent  English Canadian historians from this  काल  were economic historians  ,  such as Harold Innis , Donald Creighton and Arthur R. M.  निम्नतर
Scholars of Canadian history were heirs to the traditions that developed in  यूरोपीय   और  the  संयुक्त  States , but frameworks  कि  worked well  elsewhere  often failed in Canada .
The heavily  मार्क्सवादी  influenced economic history that dominates  यूरोपीय  has little relevance to most of Canadian history .
A focus on class  ,  urban areas , and  उद्योग  fails  to  address Canada 's  ग्रामीण  and  संसाधन  based economy .
Similarly , the monetarist school that is dominant in the  संयुक्त  States  भी  has been  मुश्किल   to  transfer north of the border .
The study of economic  इतिहास  in Canada became highly focused on  आर्थिक  geography , and  लिये  many  सालो   the  dominant school of  विचार   रै  been the staples  लेख  .
इस  school of thought bases the  पढ़ाई  of  the  Canadian  अर्थव्यवस्था  on the study of natural resources .
This approach has since also become used  बाहर  of Canada  in  Australia and in many developing nations .
पहले  the arrival of Europeans , the First  राष्ट्र  of what would become Canada had a large  और  vibrant trade network .
Furs , tools ,  सजावटी   वस्तुएं  , and other goods were often transported thousands  of   किलोमीटर  , mostly by canoe throughout the many  नदियाँ  and  झीलों  of  the  region  .
The early European history  of  the Canadian economy is usually studied through the  स्टेपल्स  thesis which argues the Canadian  अर्थव्यवस्था  developed through the  शोषण  of a series of staples that would be exported to Europe .
carbon-14  , 14C  ,  or radiocarbon , is a radioactive  समस्थानिक  of carbon with a nucleus containing 6 protons  और  8  neutrons  .
इसके  presence  in  organic materials is the  आधार  of the radiocarbon dating  विधि  pioneered by  willard   लिब्बी  and colleagues ( 1949 )  to   तिथि  archaeological , geological and hydrogeological samples .
Carbon-14  थी   खोजा   on   27  February 1940 ,  by  Martin Kamen and Sam Ruben at the University of California Radiation Laboratory  in  Berkeley , although its  अस्तित्व  had  महरूम   सुझाया  by Franz Kurie in 1934 .
There are three  naturally  occurring isotopes of carbon on  धरती  : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12 , 1  %  is carbon-13 ,  और  carbon-14 occurs in trace amounts , i.e.  ,  making up about  1  part per trillion ( 0.0000000001 % ) of  the  carbon in  the  atmosphere  .
The half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 years .
carbon-14  decays  into  nitrogen-14 through beta decay .
The primary  प्राकृतिक   सोर्स  of carbon-14 on Earth is cosmic ray  कार्रवाई  upon nitrogen  in  the atmosphere  ,   और  it  is  therefore a cosmogenic nuclide .
However , open-air nuclear testing between 1955–1980 contributed to  इस  pool  .
The different isotopes of carbon do not differ  appreciably  in their chemical properties .
This is used in  रासायनिक  and  biological  research , in a technique called  कार्बन  labeling : carbon-14  अणु   can  be used to  बदलें  nonradioactive  कार्बन  ,  in   अनुक्रम  to  ट्रेस  chemical and  biochemical  reactions involving  कार्बन  atoms from any given organic compound .
Lightning is a highly visible form of energy transfer
Lightning strikes are electrical discharges on a  विशाल  scale between the  माहौल  and an  earth-bound  object  .
They  ज़्यादातर  originate in thunderclouds  और   terminate  on  the  ground , called  बादल  to Ground ( CG ) lightning .
however  , they  may  also be  initiated  from a very tall  grounded  object and reach into the clouds .
Although  ``   a  lightning strike ''  is  commonly used  to   describe   सब  lightning , it is  बल्कि  erroneous and a misnomer , as  तभी  about 25  %   of  all  बिजली  events  विश्वव्यापी  are  cg  , the large  बल्क  of  बिजली  events are Intracloud ( IC )  or  Cloud to  बादल  ( CC )  ,  where discharge only occurs high in  the  atmosphere .
the  scientific name for the complete process of  a  single  बिजली  event is a  और   it  is a  बहुत  complex ,  अनेक   stepped  interaction , which is not completely understood .
Most CG flashes only `` strike  ''  one physical location ,  referred  to as  a  termination  .
The primary conducting channel , the  उज्जवल  coursing light you may see and  कॉल   a   ``   स्ट्राइक  '' ,  is  only about 1 inch in diameter  ,  although to our eyes it looks much larger  .
वे  are miles long , upwards of tens of miles  .
And the entire  फ्लैश   ,  lasts only a  few  fractions  of   a  second , most of which is not visible to human eyes .
थंडर  is always produced by  बिजली  .
Just like lightning , that deceives our eyes  ,  usually looking larger or closer than it  वाकई  is , the earth  's  atmosphere  और  our brain 's perception of the outside world , ultimately  determines  whether it is ``  सुना  '' or not .
बिजली  can not happen in  a   वैक्यूम  devoid  of  ions , nor can  थंडर   occur  without molecules  to  vibrate .
Thunder is a physical absolute for  प्रत्येक   सिंगल  flash of lightning .
Contrary  to  popular belief , a lightning strike itself is usually  नहीं  responsible for multiple deaths or  चोटों  from a single  इवेंट  .
It would be  नामुमकिन  given the natural  tendencies  of a  फ्लैश  , unless people or animals were stacked on top  of  each  अन्य  ,  or  they  यहूद   somehow  arranged vertically and part of  the  flash channel .
When lightning ignites an available  ईंधन  source  और  an  विस्फोट  occurs , it  is  the  शॉक  wave or fire causing the injuries , not the strike  itself  .
Ground Currents , also  पुकारा  step potential  ,  of an earth  termination  is what truly causes most injuries or  मौत  to humans and animals  .
The  निकट  instantaneous rush  of  surface charges ,  induced  by the overhead  thundercloud  itself , race to the strike point from hundreds  to  thousands of feet away during discharge  .
This current  ,   caused   दौरान  each stroke , takes the  पाथ  of least resistance  ,  which may be  आयन  rich human or animal legs , over poorly conducting earth .
This is why it is best to crouch , with feet close together  ,  if ever caught in the  खोलें  during a thunderstorm .
दुर्भाग्यवश   ,   सबसे  reports  do  not draw a distinction  between  the real  कारण  of injury or death , be  it  the  स्ट्राइक  itself , a resulting explosion or fire , or usually responsible  कदम  potential .
पीटर  F. Kilmartin  (  born 1962 ) is the current Attorney General  of  Rhode Island .
Kilmartin is also a retired  पुलिस  captain and a former member of  the  Rhode Island House  of  Representatives .
A couple following their marriage in  the  Manti Utah Temple .
Sealing is an ordinance ( ritual ) performed in Latter Day Saints temples  by  a person  पकड़कर  the sealing authority  .
the  purpose  of  this ordinance  is  to  मुहर  familiar  संबंध  , making possible the existence of family  संबंध  throughout eternity .
LDS teachings place  ग्रेट  importance on the specific authority  जरूरी  to perform  ये  sealings  .
गिरिजाघर  doctrine teaches that this  प्राधिकार  , called the  priesthood   ,  corresponds to that given to Saint Peter in .
Sealings are typically  performed  as marriages or as sealing of children to  अभिभावक  .
वे  were performed prior to the  मौत  of Joseph Smith , Jr. ( the main founder of the Latter Day Saint movement ) , and are currently  performed  in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints .
हालांकि  some other  denominations  , such as the Community of Christ , view sealing as  an  artifact of Smith 's practice of plural  विवाह  ,  कुछ  do still perform them .
the   2000s   ,  pronounced `` two thousands '' ,  थी  a decade  कि  began on January 1 , 2000 , and ended on  दिसम्बर  31  ,  2009 .
Globalization , which had  त्वरित  after the  जल्दी  1990s fall  of  communism ,  जारी  to  be   a  force in the 2000s .
The growth of the  अंतरजाल  was one  of  the prime contributors to  वैश्वीकरण   दौरान  the  दशक  ,  बनाना  it possible for people to interact with  अन्य   लोगों  , express ideas ,  introduce  others to different cultures and  पृष्ठभूमि  , use goods and services , sell and buy  ऑनलाइन  , research and learn about things  ,  along with experiencing the world  बगैर  having  to  leave home .
the   संस्थानों  , linkages and technologies that emerged or were redefined earlier  होता   subsequently  in this  दशक  benefit many countries , in particular China and India .
However ,  in  other parts of the world such progress failed to address ongoing struggles with modernity , most  notably   characterized  by the rise  of  al-Qaeda  और  other Islamist groups .
The September 11 attacks in 2001 led  to  the United States , United  किंगडम  , Spain , Canada and other nations invading  अफगानिस्तान  , as well as implementing  विभिन्न   anti-terrorist  measures at home  और  abroad in  कया   थी  known as the War  on  Terror .
the  European Union saw further integration and expansion  throughout  much of Europe .
The economic growth of the 2000s had considerable  पर्यावरणीय  consequences , raised demand for diminishing energy  संसाधन   ,   और  was still  दिखाया  to be vulnerable as demonstrated during the Global Financial Crisis  of  the late  2000s  .
The Gunfight at the O.K . Corral was a gunfight that took place at about 3:00 p.m. on  बुधवार  , October  26   ,  1881 , in Tombstone ,  एरिज़ोना  Territory ,  और  is generally regarded  as  the most  प्रसिद्ध  gunfight in the history of the American  बूढ़ा  West .
The gunfight , believed to have lasted  तभी   परिचय  thirty seconds ,  थी  fought between the outlaw Cowboys  बिली  Claiborne , Ike and Billy  clanton  , and Tom and Frank McLaury  ,  and the opposing town Marshal Virgil Earp and his brothers Assistant Town Marshal Morgan  और  temporary lawman Wyatt ,  aided  by Doc  हॉलिडे  designated as a temporary marshal  by  Virgil .
Ike Clanton  और  Billy  claiborne  ran from the fight unharmed , but  आइक  's brother  बिली   clanton  was killed , along with both  mclaurys  .
Lawmen Virgil and Morgan Earp and Doc Holliday were wounded .
तभी  Wyatt  earp  came  through  the fight unharmed  .
The  लड़ो  has  आइये  to represent  a  time in American history when the frontier was  खोलें  range for outlaws opposed  by  law enforcement that was  स्प्रेड  thin  over  vast  territories  ,  leaving   कुछ  areas unprotected  .
The gunfight was not well  ज्ञात  to the American public until 1931 when author Stuart Lake published what has since been determined to  be   a  largely fictionalized biography , Wyatt Earp  :  Frontier  मार्शल  , two years after Earp 's death .
Lake retold his  स्टोरी  in a  1946  book  कि  director John Ford developed  into   the  movie  my  Darling Clementine  .
After the movie Gunfight  at   the  O.K . Corral was released in 1957 , the shootout came to  be  known  by  that  नाम  .
Since then  ,  the conflict has been portrayed with varying degrees of accuracy in numerous Western  films   और  books .
despite  its name , the  gunfight  actually occurred in a  सीमित  lot six doors west  of  the rear entrance to the O.K  .  Corral on Fremont Street ,  और   भी  in  the  street .
The two opposing parties were  initially   तभी  about apart .
परिचय  thirty shots were fired in thirty seconds .
आइक  Clanton filed murder charges against the Earps and Doc Holliday but they were eventually  exonerated  by  a  local  न्यायधीश  after a 30-day preliminary hearing  और  then again by a local grand jury .
on   दिसम्बर  28 ,  1881  , Virgil Earp was maimed in  an  assassination attempt  by  the outlaw Cowboys , and on March  18  , 1882 , they  assassinated  Morgan Earp .
The suspects furnished solid alibis  ,  and newly appointed Deputy U.S .  मार्शल  Wyatt  earp   took  matters  into   उसके   अपना  hands during the Earp Vendetta  सवारी   ,  ironically pursued by  काउंटी  Sheriff Johnny Behan with  वारंट  for the Earp  's  arrest .
HDMI  (  High-Definition  मल्टीमीडिया  Interface )  is  a  कॉम्पैक्ट  audio/video interface for  transferring  uncompressed video  आंकड़ा   और  compressed/uncompressed  डिजिटल  audio data  इससे  a HDMI-compliant device  (  `` the source device ''  )  to a compatible computer monitor , video projector , digital television  ,  or digital audio device  .
HDMI is a digital  बदलना  for existing analog  वीडियो  standards .
वहीँ  are  a  number of  hdmi-standard   केबल  connectors available , each of which can be used for  कोई  uncompressed TV or  pc   वीडियो  format , including standard ,  उन्नत  , high  परिभाषा  , and  3d  video signals  ;  up to 8 channels of compressed or uncompressed digital audio ; a  cec  (  उपभोक्ता  Electronics Control ) connection ; and an  ईथरनेट   आंकड़ा  connection .
HDMI implements the EIA/CEA-861 standards , which define video formats  और  waveforms  ,   हस्तांतरण  of compressed , uncompressed  ,  and LPCM  ऑडियो  , auxiliary  आंकड़ा  ,  और  implementations of the VESA EDID .
The CEC  allows  HDMI  डिवाइस   to  control each other when necessary and allows the user to operate multiple devices with one remote control handset .
Because HDMI  is  electrically  संगत   साथ  the CEA-861 signals used by  डिजिटल  visual interface (  dvi   )  ,  no  signal  परिवर्तन  is necessary  ,   nor  is there a loss  of  video quality when a DVI-to-HDMI adapter is used .
as  an uncompressed CEA-861  कनेक्शन  , HDMI is independent  of  the  विभिन्न  digital television standards  प्रयुक्त   by  individual devices ,  ऐसे  as ATSC  और  DVB ,  as   ये  are  encapsulations  of compressed MPEG  वीडियो  streams ( which can be decoded and output as an uncompressed video stream  on   hdmi  ) .
Production of  उपभोक्ता   hdmi  products started in late  2003  .
In Europe either  dvi-hdcp  or HDMI is included in  the  HD  तैयार  in-store  labeling  specification for TV sets for HDTV , formulated  by  EICTA with SES  अस्त्र  in  2005  .
HDMI began  to  appear on consumer HDTV camcorders  और  digital still  कैमरे  in 2006 .
As of January 8 ,  2013   ,   जिससे   is  ten  सालो  after the  रिलीज  of the first HDMI specification , over  3  billion HDMI devices have shipped since the launch  of  the HDMI standard .
ब्री  Van de Kamp ( née Mason  ;  also  ज्ञात   in   the  series as Bree Hodge and Bree Weston  )   is  a fictional character and one of the four  protagonists  on  the  ABC television  श्रेणी  Desperate  housewives   .
She  is  played by  अभिनेत्री  Marcia  क्रॉस  ,  जो   रै  received  अनेक  awards  और   nominations  for  उसके   portrayal  , including an Emmy Award  नामांकन  , three Golden Globe Award nominations , and two Screen Actors  गिल्ड  Awards .
Cross 's  portrayal  of Bree has  महरूम   widely  praised by critics and fans .
Cross originally auditioned for the  भूमिका  of Mary  ऐलिस  Young , but  श्रेणी  creator Marc Cherry  विचार  she  थी  better suited for the  भूमिका  of Bree .
दाना  Delany  ,   जो   आखिरकार  was  डाल  as  कैथरीन  Mayfair , was originally  चुनी   लिये  the role  लकिन   turned  it  bas  , saying it was too similar to  उसके  role in Pasadena .
Bree 's main  संघर्ष  throughout the series has been her attempts  to   maintain  a perfect life despite various obstacles such as widowhood , divorce ,  और   alcoholism   hindering   उसके  .
वो  has been married three times ; to Rex Van de Kamp (  स्टीवन  Culp  )  , Orson Hodge ( Kyle MacLachlan ) and  ट्रिप   वेस्टन  ( Scott Bakula ) .
देखिए   भी  the Town of Algoma in Winnebago County  ,  Wisconsin .
See also Algoma  (  Disambiguation )  .
Algoma  is   a  city in Kewaunee County  in   the  U.S. state  of  Wisconsin .
The population  थी  3,167 at the 2010 census .
Algoma  is  part of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area .
the  Hangover Part II is  a  2011 American comedy film produced by Legendary Pictures and  वितरित  by Warner  भाईs.  Pictures .
It  is  the sequel to 2009 's The  hangover  and the second film in The Hangover franchise  .
Todd Phillips  निर्देशित   the   फिल्मी  in addition to  co-authoring  the script  साथ  Craig Mazin , and Scot  आर्मस्ट्रांग  .
The film stars Bradley  कूपर  , Ed Helms  ,  Zach Galifianakis  ,  Ken Jeong , Jeffrey  tambor  , Justin  bartha  and Paul  giamatti   .
The Hangover Part II tells  the  story of Phil , Stu , Alan , and  डग  as  वे  travel to Thailand for  stu  's wedding .
After the bachelor party  in  Las Vegas , Stu takes no chances and opts  लिये  a safe ,  subdued   pre-wedding  brunch .
However ,  बाते  do  नहीं   go  as planned , resulting in another bad hangover with no memories  of  the previous night .
विकास   of  The Hangover Part II began in April  2009   ,   दो   महीने  before The Hangover was released .
The  प्रिंसिपल  actors were cast in March 2010 to reprise their roles from the first film .
Production  began  in October 2010 , in  ओंटारियो  , California  ,  before moving on location in Thailand .
The  फिल्मी  was released on  may   26  ,  2011  and , despite receiving mostly negative reviews from critics , it became the highest-grossing R-rated comedy during its  नाट्य  run .
a  third film is set for on May  24  , 2013 .
Young Man Among  गुलाब  ,  पोर्ट्रेट  miniature by Nicholas Hilliard , 1588 , V & A .
Believed to be the Earl of Essex
The Ditchley  पोर्ट्रेट  of Elizabeth I by the foreign  मार्कस  Gheeraerts the Younger , c.1592
The English  पुनर्जागरण  was a cultural and artistic  गति  in England dating  इससे  the late 15th and early 16th  सदियां  to  the  early  17th  century  .
It is associated  साथ  the pan-European  पुनर्जागरण  that is usually regarded as beginning in Italy in the late 14th  सदी  .
Like most of  उत्तरी  Europe , England saw little of these  developments  until more than  a  century  बाद   .
The beginning of  the   अंग्रेज़ी  Renaissance is  प्रायः  taken , as a convenience , to  be  1485 , when the  बैटल  of Bosworth Field ended  the  Wars of the Roses and inaugurated  the  Tudor Dynasty .
पुनर्जागरण  style and ideas  ,  however  ,  were slow  in  penetrating England  ,  and the Elizabethan era in the second half  of   the   16th  century is usually regarded as the height of  the   अंग्रेज़ी  Renaissance .
Elizabeth Ann Bloomer  वारेन   ``   बेट्टी  ''  घाट  ( April 8 , 1918 – July 8 , 2011 ) , was First Lady of  the  United States from 1974 to 1977 during  the  presidency of her husband Gerald Ford .
As First Lady , she was active in social policy and  निर्मित  precedents as  a  politically active presidential wife .
Throughout her husband 's  पद  in office  ,  she  कायम   ऊँची  approval ratings  despite  opposition  इससे  some conservative Republicans who objected to her more moderate and liberal positions on social issues .
Ford was noted for raising breast cancer awareness following her 1974 mastectomy and was a passionate supporter  of  , and  activist  for , the Equal Rights Amendment ( ERA )  .
Pro-choice on  गर्भपात   और  a  नेता  in the Women 's  गति   ,   वो   gained  fame as one  of   the  most  निष्कपट  first ladies in history ,  commenting   on  every  hot-button  issue of the time , including feminism ,  बराबर  pay ,  the  ERA , sex ,  दवाएँ  , abortion ,  और  gun  कंट्रोल  .
वो  also raised awareness of  व्यसन  when she announced her long-running battle  साथ  alcoholism in the 1970s .
following   उसके  White House years , she continued to lobby for the ERA and  remained   क्रियाशील  in  the  feminist  गति   .
She was  the  founder , and  परोसा  as  the  first chair of the  फलक  of  निर्देशकों  ,  of  the Betty Ford Center for  पदार्थ  abuse and addiction and is a recipient of the Congressional Gold  पदक  ( co-presentation with her husband , Gerald R. Ford ,  अक्तूबर   21  , 1998  )  and the Presidential  पदक  of Freedom ( alone  ,  presented 1991  ,  by George  H.  W. Bush  )  .
Platelet  endothelial  cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM-1 )  भी  known as  क्लस्टर   of   differentiation   31  ( CD31  )   is  a  प्रोटीन  that in human is encoded by the  pecam1  gene  मिला  on chromosome 17 .
PECAM-1 plays a  कुंजी  role in  निकालना  aged neutrophils from the  देह   .
Jessica Rafalowski , Miss Florida USA 2008
जेन्ना  Edwards , Miss  फ्लोरिडा  USA 2007
मेलिसा  Witek , Miss Florida  यूएसए  2005
Kristen Berset ,  मिस  Florida USA 2004
The Miss Florida  यूएसए  competition is the  pageant  that selects  the  representative for  the  state Florida in the Miss USA  pageant   .
While Florida  रै  been successful in terms of  runners-up  , finalists and semi-finalists , the  राज्य  has never  जीती  the Miss USA pageant , although  चेरिल  Patton became Miss USA after  सिल्विया  Hitchcock won Miss  ब्रह्मांड  .
Florida  's  best results were during  the  mid-1960s  to  mid-1970s .
Their most recent finalist was Lissette Garcia who  लगाई  in the top  16   in   2011   .
दो  former Miss Florida Teen  यूएसए  titleholders  have  won this competition  ,   और   तीन  titleholders have also competed at Miss  अमेरिका  .
the   वर्तमान  titleholder is Michelle  aguirre  of Hialeah .
Anglo-Saxon  इंग्लैण्ड  refers to the period of the history of the part of Britain that became known as England , lasting from the end of Roman occupation  और   स्थापना  of Anglo-Saxon kingdoms  in  the 5th century until the Norman conquest of England in  1066  by  विलियम  the Conqueror .
Anglo-Saxon is a general  पद  referring  to  the  germanic   peoples  who came to Britain  दौरान  the 5th and 6th centuries  ,  including Angles ,  saxons   ,  Frisii , and Jutes .
the  term also refers to the language  बोला  at the time  in  England  ,  which is now called Old English , and to the culture of the era , which has long  आकर्षित  popular  और  scholarly  ध्यान  .
Until  the  9th  सदी  Anglo-Saxon England was dominated by the Heptarchy  ,  the kingdoms of Northumbria , Mercia , East Anglia , Essex , Kent ,  ससेक्स  ,  और  Wessex .
In terms of religion  the  kingdoms followed Anglo-Saxon paganism during the early period , but converted to Christianity during the  7th   सदी  .
Paganism had a final stronghold  in  a  काल  of Mercian hegemony  दौरान  the 640s , ending with the death  of  Penda of Mercia in 655 .
Facing the threat of Viking invasions , the House  of  Wessex  became  dominant during the 9th century , under the  नियम  of Alfred the  ग्रेट  .
During the 10th century ,  the   व्यक्तिगत  kingdoms  एकीकृत   अंतर्गत  the rule of Wessex into the Kingdom of England , which  stood   opposed  to  the  Danelaw , the Viking kingdoms established  इससे  the  9th  century  in  the north and  ईस्ट  of England .
The Kingdom of England fell in the Viking invasion  इससे  Denmark in 1013 and was ruled by the House of  डेनमार्क  until 1042 , when the Anglo-Saxon House of Wessex was restored .
The last Anglo-Saxon king , Harold  godwinson  , was killed in  1066   at  the  बैटल  of Hastings .
Lighting a traditional  रेड  brick John Ross Jr kiln
Smoked salmon is a  तैयारी  of  सामन  , typically a fillet  कि  has been cured and hot or cold smoked .
Due to its moderately high price , smoked salmon is considered a delicacy .
Although the term lox is  sometimes  applied to smoked salmon , they are  अलग  products .
View of defibrillator  एलेक्ट्रोड  position  और  placement .
defibrillation  is a  आम  treatment for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias , ventricular fibrillation ,  और  pulseless ventricular tachycardia .
Defibrillation consists of  delivering  a therapeutic dose of electrical energy to the affected heart with a  यंत्र  called  a  defibrillator .
इस  depolarizes a critical mass of the heart  मांसपेशी  , terminates the dysrhythmia ,  और  allows normal sinus rhythm to  be  reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker , in  the  sinoatrial node of the heart .
Defibrillators can be external , transvenous  ,  or implanted  ,  depending on the type of device used or needed .
Some external units ,  ज्ञात  as  स्वचालित  external defibrillators  (  AEDs ) , automate the diagnosis of  treatable  rhythms ,  अर्थ   कि   lay   responders  or  bystanders   हैं  able to  उपयोग  them successfully with little , or in some cases no training at all .
Gabrielle `` Coco '' Bonheur Chanel ( August 19 ,  1883  – January 10 ,  1971  ) was  a   फ्रेंच   फ़ैशन  designer and founder of the Chanel brand  .
She was the only fashion designer to appear on Time  पत्रिका   's  list of the 100  सबसे  influential people of the 20th century  .
Along with Paul Poiret  ,   चैनल   थी  credited with liberating women  इससे  the constraints of the `` corseted  silhouette   ''  and popularizing the acceptance of  a  sportive , casual chic as  the  feminine standard  in   the  post- World  युद्ध  I era .
A prolific fashion creator , Chanel 's influence extended beyond couture clothing  .
Her design aesthetic was realized  in  jewelry , handbags  ,  and fragrance .
Her  हस्ताक्षर  scent , Chanel No . 5 , has  become   an  iconic product .
Chanel was known  लिये   उसके  lifelong determination , ambition and energy which she applied to her professional and social life .
She achieved both success as a businesswoman and social prominence thanks to  the   कनेक्शन्स  she  बना   through  her work .
These included many artists and craftspeople to whom she became  a   संरक्षक  .
however  , Chanel 's highly competitive , opportunistic personality led  उसके  to make questionable life choices which have generated controversy  around  her reputation  ,  particularly her  आचरण   दौरान   the  German occupation  of  France in World War II  .
Allied  मिलों  flour mill on the banks of the  मैनचेस्टर  Ship Canal
a  gristmill ( also : grist  मिल  , corn  मिल  or flour mill  )  grinds  अनाज  into flour  .
the   पद  can refer to both the grinding mechanism and the building  कि   holds   it  .
Romania (  ;  dated spellings Roumania and Rumania ; )  is  a country located  at  the intersection of Central and Southeastern Europe , bordering on  the   ब्लैक  Sea  .
Romania shares a  किनारा   साथ  Hungary and Serbia to the west ,  युक्त   और  Moldova to the  पूर्वोत्तर  and east , and Bulgaria to the south .
At ,  रोमानिया  is the eighth largest country of the European Union  by  area ,  और   रै   the   सातवाँ   largest  population of the European Union with more than 19  लाख  people .
Its capital  और  biggest city is Bucharest ,  the   11th   largest  city in the EU .
The United Principalities  उभरा  when the territories of Moldavia and Wallachia were united under Prince  सिकंदर   ioan  Cuza in  1859  .
In 1866 Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was called  to   the  throne as the Ruling Prince  of  the Romanian Principate and  in  1881  he  was finally  पहनाया  as King Carol  i  the first  monarch  of the Kingdom  of  Romania .
स्वतंत्रता  from the Ottoman Empire was  घोषित  on  9  May 1877 , and was internationally recognized  the  following year .
At the end  of  World War  i  , Transylvania , Bukovina  और  Bessarabia united with the Kingdom of  रोमानिया  .
World  युद्ध  II gave cause to  the  rise of  a   सैन्य  dictatorship in Romania under fascist General Ion Antonescu  ,  who chose to  लड़ो  on the  पक्ष  of  the   अक्ष   शक्तियां   इससे  1941  to   1944  .
After  उसके   हटाना  , Romania switched sides in 1944 and joined the Allies .
By  the   समाप्त   of  the  युद्ध  , some formerly  रोमानियाई  northeastern territories were  occupied   by  the Soviet Union , with Red Army units stationed on Romanian soil  .
In 1947 Romania forcibly  became   a   लोगों   's  Republic ( 1947-1965 ) and a member of  the  Warsaw  अनुबंध   .
In 1965 Nicolae Ceauşescu  became  General Secretary  of  the Romanian Communist  पार्टी   ,  and the harsh austerity measures , political repression , and cult of personality  he  implemented led to the Socialist Republic of Romania  (  1965-1989 ) becoming the most Stalinist police state in  the  Eastern bloc .
आखिरकार  his  सत्तावादी  government was toppled  in  December 1989  दौरान  the Romanian Revolution of 1989 .
With the  पतन   of   the  Iron Curtain , Romania began its transition towards  लोकतंत्र  and  a  capitalist market economy  .
After  a  decade  of   post-revolution  economic problems  और  living-standards decline  ,   extensive   reforms  fostered economic recovery .
As of  2010   ,  Romania is an upper-middle-income country with a  ऊँची  human development  अनुक्रमणिका  .
रोमानिया  joined NATO on 29 March 2004 , and  the   यूरोपीय  Union  on  1  जनवरी   2007  .
It is  भी  a member of the : Latin Union , Francophonie , OSCE , WTO , BSEC , United Nations  ,  etc .
Today , Romania  is  a unitary semi-presidential republic , in which  the  executive branch consists of the  अध्यक्ष   और   the   सरकारी  .
`` Ancient '' redirects here  .
For other  उपयोग  , see Antiquity  (  disambiguation )  .
the  times before writing  belong  either  to  protohistory or to  प्रागितिहास  .
Khafre 's Pyramid  (  4th dynasty  )  and Great Sphinx of Giza  (  c.  2500  BC or  शायद  earlier )
Ancient  इतिहास  is the study of the  लिखा  past from  the  beginning of  अंकित  human history  to  the  जल्दी  Middle  आयु  .
The span  of  recorded history is roughly 5,000  सालो  , with Cuneiform  स्क्रिप्ट  , the  oldest   खोजा  form of  सुसंगत   लिखने   ,  from the  protoliterate  period around the 30th century BC  .
इस  is the beginning of history  ,  as opposed to  प्रागितिहास  , according to the definition used by most historians  .
The  पद  classical antiquity is often  प्रयुक्त   to  refer to history  in  the  बूढ़ा  World from  the   शुरूआत  of  अंकित  Greek history in 776 BC ( First Olympiad ) .
This roughly coincides  साथ  the traditional  तिथि   of  the founding of Rome in 753  bc   ,  the beginning of the history of ancient Rome  ,  and the beginning of the Archaic period in Ancient Greece .
Although the ending date of  प्राचीन  history  is  disputed , some  पश्चिमी  scholars use the  पतन  of  the  Western Roman Empire in  476  AD , the closure of the Platonic Academy  in  529  ad  , the death  of  the emperor  जुस्तिनियन   i   ,  the coming of Islam or  the   वृद्धि  of Charlemagne as the end of ancient and Classical European history .
In India , the period  शामिल  the  जल्दी  period of the Middle  kingdoms  , and ,  in  China , the time up  to  the Qin Dynasty is  शामिल  .
Methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a form of vitamin B12 .
Physically  it  resembles  the   अन्य  forms of vitamin B12 , occurring as  अंधेरा  red crystals that  freely  form  cherry-colored   पारदर्शी  solutions in water .
Vitamin B12 , vitamin B12 or  विटामिन  B-12  ,  also called cobalamin , is  a  water-soluble  विटामिन  with a key role in the normal functioning of the brain and nervous system , and for the formation  of   रक्त  .
it  is one of the eight  b  vitamins .
It is normally involved in the metabolism  of  every cell of the human  देह   ,  especially  affecting  DNA synthesis  और  regulation ,  लकिन  also fatty acid synthesis and  उर्जा  production .
neither  fungi , plants ,  nor  animals  हैं  capable  of  producing  विटामिन  B12 .
Only  जीवाणु  and archaea have the enzymes required for  इसके  synthesis ,  हालांकि  many foods are  a  natural source of B12 because  of   बैक्टीरियल  symbiosis .
The  विटामिन  is the largest and most structurally  जटिल  vitamin and can  be  produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis  .
विटामिन  B12  consists  of a class  of  chemically  सम्बन्धित  compounds ( vitamers )  ,  all of which have  विटामिन  activity  .
It  contains  the biochemically rare  तत्व   कोबाल्ट  .
Biosynthesis of the basic structure  of  the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( which usually produce hydroxocobalamin )  ,  but conversion between  अलग  forms of the vitamin  can  be accomplished in  the   इंसान   देह   .
A common semi-synthetic form  of  the vitamin , cyanocobalamin ,  करता   नहीं  occur in nature , but is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then used in many pharmaceuticals and  पूरक  ,  और  as a food additive , because of  इसके   स्थिरता   और   निम्नतर   उत्पादन  cost .
in  the body it is  परिवर्तित   to  the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin , leaving behind the cyanide , albeit in minimal  विशेषज्ञता   .
More recently , hydroxocobalamin ,  methylcobalamin   ,  and  adenosylcobalamin  can be  मिला  in more expensive pharmacological products and  खाना  supplements  .
the   अतिरिक्त  utility of these is  फिलहाल   debated  .
Vitamin B12 was  खोजा  from  इसके   संबंध   to  the disease pernicious anemia ,  जिससे  is an autoimmune disease in which parietal cells of the  पेट  responsible  लिये  secreting intrinsic factor are  नष्ट  .
मूलभूत   फ़ैक्टर   is  crucial for the  सामान्य  absorption of B12  ,   so  a lack of intrinsic factor , as seen in pernicious  रक्ताल्पता  , causes a  विटामिन   b12  deficiency .
अनेक  other  subtler  kinds of  विटामिन  B12 deficiency and their biochemical effects have  चूंकि  been elucidated  .
The Roman Empire ( )  थी  the  post-  Republican period  of  the ancient  रोमन  civilization , characterised by an autocratic form of  सरकारी  and large  territorial  holdings around  the  Mediterranean  in  Europe ,  अफ़्रीकी  ,  और  Asia .
The 500-year-old Roman  गणतंत्र   ,  which preceded it , had been destabilized through a series  of  civil wars .
Several events marked the  परिवर्तन  from Republic  to  Empire , including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator (  44   bc  ) ; the Battle of Actium (  31  BC ) ; and the granting  of  the honorific Augustus to Octavian by  the  Roman Senate ( 27 BC ) .
The first two centuries of the Empire  यहूद  a period of  unprecedented  stability  और  prosperity known  as  the Pax Romana ( ``  रोमन  Peace '' ) .
It  पहुँचे  its greatest expanse during the  शासनकाल  of  त्राजान  ( 98–117 AD )  .
in  the  3rd  century , the  साम्राज्य  underwent a crisis that threatened its existence , but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and  diocletian  .
Christians rose to power in the 4th century  ,  during which time a system of  डुअल  rule was developed  in  the  लैटिन  West and Greek East .
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th century , the  पूर्वी  half continued as  कया  would later be known as the Byzantine Empire  .
Because of  the  Empire 's vast extent  और  long endurance , the  संस्थानों  and culture of Rome  था  a profound and lasting  influence  on the development  of  language , religion ,  वास्तुकला  , philosophy  ,  law , and forms of government  in  the territory it  governed  ,  विशेषकर  Europe , and by means of European  expansionism  throughout the modern world .
Total  देह  surface  क्षेत्रफल   (   tbsa  )  is  an  मूल्यांकन  measure of  burns   of  the skin .
In adults , the ``  नियम   of   nines   ''  is used  to  determine  the  total percentage of area burned  लिये  each major section of  the  body .
In some cases , the burns  may  cover  अधिक   than   एक  body part , or may not fully cover such  a  part  ;   in  these cases , burns are measured  by  using the casualty 's palm as a reference point for  1  % of the body .
लिये  children and infants , the Lund-Browder chart is used to  assess  the burned body surface area .
Different percentages are used because the ratio of the  संयुक्त  surface area  of  the head and neck to the  सतह   क्षेत्रफल  of the  limbs   is  typically larger in  children  than that of an adult  .
Typical values for common  समूह   of  humans follow .
( Due to rounding , values may  नहीं  add to  100   %  . )
World  शिशु  mortality rates  by   पाँच  years averages in 2008 .
This is a list of  देशों  by infant mortality rate .
यूनुस  Kirsten Sorrentino  (  born June  26  , 1975 ) , better  ज्ञात   by  his  स्टेज  name  kj-52  ,  is   a  Christian  rapper  from Tampa ,  फ्लोरिडा   .
The `` KJ  ''  part of his name refers to his  बूढ़ा  rap alias  ,  `` King  J.   मैक  , '' a name which he later described in  एक   of  his podcasts as `` horribly  घटिया  .  ''
`` 52 '' , which  is  pronounced  ``   पाँच  two '' , not ``  fifty-two  '' , is  a  reference to the Biblical story of Jesus feeding the multitude with five loaves and two fish , which  is  also sung about in his song `` Push Up '' from The Yearbook and in the  ``  KJ Five Two '' on It 's Pronounced 'Five Two  .
He was awarded the  rap/hip  Hop Recorded  सोंग   of  the Year for ``  never  Look Away ''  और  Rap/Hip Hop  एल्बम  of the Year at the  जीएमए  Dove Awards of 2007 .
on  July 28 ,  2009  , KJ-52 released `` End  of  My Rope '' ,  जिससे  is the first single for his album  five-two  Television .
His song ``  डिअर   पतला  '' is based on Eminem 's song `` Stan `` and is a sort of personal message from KJ-52 to Eminem .
The  उपाधि   प्रतीक  ( ° ) is a typographical symbol that is used , among other things , to represent degrees of  चाप  ( e.g  .  in  भौगोलिक  coordinate systems ) , hours ( in  the   चिकित्सा   फ़ील्ड   )  , or  डिग्री  of temperature  .
The symbol consists of a small raised circle ,  historically  a  शून्य  glyph  .
In Unicode it is encoded at  .
This is  a  list of roots , suffixes , and prefixes used  in  medical terminology  ,  their meanings , and their etymology  .
There are a few  नियम  when using medical roots .
firstly   ,  prefixes  और  suffixes , primarily  in  Greek , but also in Latin , have a droppable  -o-  .
As  a  general rule ,  इस  -o- almost always acts  as  a joint-stem to connect  दो  consonantal roots ,  e.g  . arthr-  +  -o- + logy  =  arthrology .
But generally , the -o- is dropped when  connecting   to  a vowel-stem  ;  e.g  .  arthr- + itis = arthritis , instead of arthr-o-itis .
Secondly ,  चिकित्सा  roots generally go together  according  to  भाषा  : Greek prefixes go with Greek suffixes and  लैटिन  prefixes with Latin suffixes .
हालांकि  international scientific  शब्दावली  is not  कठोर  about segregating combining forms  of   अलग   भाषाएं  , it  is   advisable  when coining new words not to  मिक्सर  different  lingual   जड़ें  .
Stomach cancer  ,   or   gastric  cancer , refers  to  cancer arising from any  भाग  of the stomach .
Stomach  कर्कट  causes about  800,000  deaths worldwide per year .
Prognosis is poor  (  5-year survival < 5 to 15 %  )   क्युकी  most patients  उपस्थित   साथ   उन्नत  disease .
Sara  lynn  Evans ( born February 5 , 1971  )  is  an  American country singer and songwriter .
लिये  her entire career ,  वो  has been signed to  आरसीए   रिकॉर्ड  Nashville .
Evans ' debut , Three  मदारी  and the Truth  ,  did  नहीं  produce a  शीर्ष  40 hit on the Hot Country Songs charts .
She followed this up with No Place That Far ( 1998 ) , Born to Fly ( 2000 ) , Restless ( 2003 ) and Real  ठीक  Place (  2005  ) .
No Place That Far received a gold certification from the  रिकॉर्डिंग  Industry Association of America (  riaa  ) , while  the  other three albums all  यहूद  certified platinum  .
These discs include the number 1 singles `` No Place  कि  Far `` , `` Born  to  Fly `` , ``  suds   in  the Bucket ``  और  ``  a   रियल  Fine Place to Start `` , plus the top 10 hits `` I Could Not Ask  लिये  More ``  (  a cover of the Edwin McCain song ) , ``  i  Keep Looking `` , `` Perfect `` and  ``  Cheatin ' `` .
उसके   2007  Greatest Hits included the top 15 hits ``  तुम   'll  Always Be My Baby `` and `` As If `` .
stronger   (  2011 ) included her fifth  क्रमांक  1 hit  ,   ``  A Little Bit Stronger  ``  , which was co-written by Hillary Scott of Lady Antebellum .
Evans has also  जीती  one award each  इससे  Billboard , the Academy of Country Music , Country  म्यूज़िक  Association  ,  Broadcast Music Incorporated  (  BMI ) and a  dove   पुरस्कार  .
The world  's  principal  धर्मों  and spiritual traditions  may   be  classified  into  a small number of major  समूह   ,  although this is by no means a uniform practice .
This theory  began  in  the  18th century with the goal of recognizing the relative  स्तर   of  civility  in  societies .
Berliners watching a C-54 land  at  Tempelhof  विमानक्षेत्र  ( 1948 )
the   बर्लिन  blockade ( 24  जून  1948 – 12 May 1949 ) was one  of  the first  प्रमुख  international  crises  of the Cold War .
During  the  multinational  occupation  of post–World  युद्ध   ii  Germany , the  सोवियत  Union blocked the Western Allies '  रेल   ,  road , and  कनाल  access to  the  sectors of  बर्लिन  under Allied  कंट्रोल  .
Their aim was to force the western powers to allow the Soviet zone to start supplying Berlin with  खाना   और  fuel , thereby giving the Soviets practical control over  the  entire city  .
In  जवाब   ,  the  पश्चिमी  Allies organized the Berlin  एयरलिफ्ट  to carry supplies to the people in West  बर्लिन  .
Aircrews from the United  राज्य  Air Force , the  अंग्रेजों  Royal Air Force ,  the  Royal Australian Air Force , the Royal Canadian Air Force , the Royal New Zealand Air Force , and the  दक्षिण  African Air Force flew over 200,000 flights in one  साल  ,  providing  up to 4700 tons of daily necessities such as  ईंधन   और  food to the Berliners .
By the spring  of  1949 , the  प्रयत्न  was clearly  succeeding  and , by April  ,  the airlift  थी  delivering more  कार्गो   than  had  previously  been  transported  into the  नगर  by rail .
The success of  the  Berlin Airlift brought embarrassment  to  the  soviets  who  था   refused  to believe it  could  make  a  difference .
The blockade was lifted in May 1949 and resulted  in  the creation of two separate German states .
the  Federal Republic of Germany ( West Germany ) and the German Democratic Republic ( East Germany  )   विभाजित  up Berlin  .
In remembrance of the airlift  ,  three airports in the  पूर्व  western zones of the city served  as  the primary  gateways  to Germany for another fifty years  .
The  यूरोपियन  sign ;  logotype  and handwritten .
The  यूरोपियन   चिह्न  is  the   करेंसी  sign used  लिये  the euro , the  आधिकारिक  currency of the Eurozone in the  यूरोपीय   संघ  ( EU ) .
The design was presented to the public by the  यूरोपीय  Commission on 12 December  1996  .
The international  three-letter  code (  according  to ISO standard ISO 4217 ) for  the  euro is EUR .
In Unicode it is encoded at .
In English ,  the  sign precedes the value .
In some styleguides , but not others , the euro sign is unspaced .
Mate (  ,  ;  sometimes  also spelled  maté  )  ,   भी   ज्ञात  as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( )  ,  is  a   परंपरागत   दक्षिण  American infused drink ,  विशेषकर  in  अर्जेंटीना  , Uruguay , Paraguay and the southern  राज्य  of  ब्राज़ील  and  to  a  lesser  degree in south of Chile  ,  the Bolivian  chaco  ,  सीरियाई  and Lebanon .
It is prepared from steeping dried leaves of yerba mate ( llex  paraguariensis  ,  ज्ञात  in Portuguese as erva-mate ) in hot water .
Mate  is   परोसा  with  a  metal straw from  a  shared hollow calabash  करेले  .
The straw  is  called a bombilla  in  some Latin American countries , a bomba in Portuguese , and a bombija or , more  generally  , a masassa (  प्रकार   of   स्ट्रॉ   )  in Arabic .
The straw is traditionally made of silver .
Modern , commercially available straws are typically  बना   of  nickel  चांदी  , called  alpaca  ; stainless  स्टील  , or hollow-stemmed cane .
The gourd is  ज्ञात  as a mate or  a  guampa ; while in Brazil  ,   it  has the specific  नाम   of  cuia , or also  cabaça  ( the name for Indigenous-influenced  calabash  gourds in  अन्य  regions of Brazil  ,   स्टिल  used  लिये  general  खाना  and  पेय  in remote regions  )  .
Even if  the   जल   is   supplied  from a modern thermos , the infusion is traditionally  नशे  from mates or  cuias  .
As with other brewed herbs , yerba mate leaves  हैं  dried ,  कटा  , and ground  into  a  powdery   मिश्रण  called yerba .
The bombilla acts  as  both a straw and  a  sieve .
The submerged end is flared  ,   साथ   छोटी  holes or slots that allow the brewed liquid in , but block the chunky matter that makes up much of the mixture .
A modern bombilla design uses a straight tube with holes  ,  or spring sleeve  to  act as a sieve .
``  tea-bag  '' type infusions of mate ( mate cocido )  have  been on the market  in  Argentina , Paraguay and  उरुग्वे  for many years  अंतर्गत  such trade names as  ``  Taragüí Vitality '' in Argentina , `` Pajarito '' and ``  kurupí   ''  in Paraguay , and in Brazil under the  नाम   ``  Mate Leão '' .
This  is  considered a  completely  different drink  .
it  is never  नशे  from cuias or called chimarrão , nor  is   it  associated with the gaucho/gaúcho culture .
The automotive industry is  a  term that covers a wide range  of  companies and organisations involved  in  the design  ,  development , manufacture  ,  marketing  ,  and selling of motor  वाहनों  , towed vehicles ,  मोटरसाइकिल  and  mopeds  .
it   is  one  of  the world  's   सबसे  important economic sectors  by  revenue .
The term  ऑटोमोटिव   उद्योग  usually does not include industries dedicated to the maintenance of automobiles following delivery  to   the   end-user  , such as repair shops and  मोटर  fuel filling stations .
The term automotive was  निर्मित  from Greek autos ( self ) , and  लैटिन  motivus ( of  गति  ) to represent any form of  self-powered  vehicle .
This term was proposed  by   sae  member Elmer Sperry .
David Michael ``  डेव   ''  Bautista , Jr. ( born January 18 , 1969  )  , is  an  American mixed  martial  artist , bodybuilder , actor  ,   और   पूर्व  professional wrestler  बेहतरीन  known  लिये   उसके  time in World Wrestling Entertainment  स्पर्धा  under the  रिंग  name Batista .
In  डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई  , he became a six-time world champion , winning the World Heavyweight Championship four  टाइम्स   ,  and the WWE Championship two times  .
he   is  the longest-reigning World Heavyweight Champion in  डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई  history .
In addition  to   ये  championships  ,   बतिस्ता  has  जीती  the World Tag Team Championship three times ( twice with  ric  Flair and  एकबार  with John Cena ) and the WWE Tag Team Championship  एकबार  (  साथ  Rey Mysterio ) .
Batista  थी   भी  the winner of the  2005  Royal Rumble match  और  went  on  to headline WrestleMania 21 , one of the top five highest-grossing pay-per-view events  in  pro  कुश्ती  history .
After  trying  out at World Championship Wrestling 's  शक्ति  Plant , Batista signed a contract  साथ  the WWF in 2000  और   थी   भेजा   to   इसके  developmental  territory  , Ohio Valley Wrestling ( OVW  )  ,  जहाँ  he won the OVW Heavyweight Championship .
In August  2012  , Bautista signed a  अनुबंध   साथ  Classic Entertainment & Sports to fight in mixed martial arts .
He won his  mma  debut  on  October  6  , 2012 , defeating Vince Lucero via TKO in the first  गोलाकार  .
Henry T. Thomas Sampson  ,  Jr. ( born in  जैक्सन   ,  Mississippi in  1934  ) is  an   african-american  inventor  .
He graduated from  ऊँची  school  in   1951  from Lanier  ऊँची  School in Jackson ,  मिसिसिपी   .
He then attended Morehouse College for a couple of years  पहले  transferring to  purdue  University where  he  became a member of the Omega Psi Phi fraternity .
he  received a Bachelor 's degree  in  science from Purdue University in 1956 .
He  ग्रैजुएट  with  an  MS degree in engineering from the University of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ,  Los Angeles  in  1961 .
Sampson  भी  received  उसके  MS  in  Nuclear Engineering from the University of Illinois  urbana-champaign  in  1965   ,  and  उसके  PhD in  1967  .
He is the first African American to earn  a  Ph.D.in Nuclear Engineering in  the  United States  .
Some of his  accomplishments  include being a member of the United  राज्य  Navy between the years 1962 and  1964  and earning an Atomic Energy Commission honor between 1964 and  1967   .
Later he was awarded the  ब्लैक  Image Award from  aerospace  Corporation in  1982  .
He  थी  awarded the Blacks in Engineering , Applied Science  पुरस्कार  , and prize for  शिक्षा  , by the Los Angeles Council of Black Professional Engineers  in   1983   .
In June 2007 , Sampson was married to Laura Howzell Young in  st.  Thomas ,  u.S.  Virgin Islands .
Young-Sampson is a professor in the  कॉलेज  of Education  at  California State University San Bernardino  .
Robert Lane Gibbs  (  born March 29 , 1971 ) is a senior campaign adviser for US President  बराक  Obama .
previously  , he was the 28th White House Press Secretary .
गिब्स  was the communications  निदेशक  for then- U.S . Senator Obama and his 2008 presidential campaign .
गिब्स  , who has worked  साथ  Obama since 2004 , was press secretary  of  John  केरी  's  2004  presidential campaign and  रै  previously specialized in  सीनेट  campaigns , having served as  संचार  director for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign  कमेटी  and for four individual Senate campaigns , including those of Obama in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998 .
Gibbs was also the press secretary of  प्रतिनिधि  Bob Etheridge .
On November 22  ,   2008  , Gibbs was announced as the press secretary of the  ओबामा  administration  .
He  assumed  the  भूमिका  of  दबायें  secretary  on  January 20 , 2009 , and gave his first official  drug  on January 22  .
On January 5 , 2011 ,  गिब्स  announced that he  होता  leave the  श्वेत  House to become  an  outside adviser to the administration .
He left on February 11 ,  2011  .
On February 12 ,  2013  , it  थी  announced that Gibbs had been hired as a  योगदानकर्ता   लिये  cable-news channel MSNBC .
His  पहला  appearance was on the same night prior to  the  2013 State Of The  संघ  Address .
Armando Pérez ( born January 15  ,  1981 ) , better known by his stage name Pitbull  ,  is an American rapper ,  songwriter   ,  and record producer .
His first  अंकित  performance  थी  from the Lil Jon album Kings of Crunk in  2002   .
in  2004 , he released his debut  एल्बम  titled  m.i.a.m.i  . (  छोटी  for Money Is A Major Issue ) under TVT Records .
Since then ,  he  has released three other albums under the label : El  mariel   in  2006 , The  boatlift  in  2007  , and Planet Pit in 2011 .
he  released Rebelution in 2009  ,  which included singles `` I Know You Want Me ( Calle Ocho ) `` and `` Krazy ``  .
The latter peaked  at   no  . 30 on the Hot 100 and No . 11 on the Hot Rap  ट्रैक्स  charts while `` I Know You Want Me '' peaked at No  .  2  on   the   hot  100 and peaked within  the   शीर्ष  ten spots  of  charts in the UK , Canada  ,  Italy , and  the  Netherlands .
The song  पहुँचे  No . 1 in France and  the   यूरोपीय  Hot 100 on  the  week ending August 29 , 2009  according   to  Billboard magazine .
he  later signed  साथ  Polo Grounds  म्यूज़िक   through   सोनी  Music and created his own label Mr. 305  inc  .
another  single from  rebelution  was  ``  Hotel Room  सेवा  `` , which peaked  at   no  . 8 on  the  Hot 100 .
Rebelution went  on  to sell over  7.5   लाख  worldwide digital singles  और  albums combined .
Nevertheless , he dropped a smash called `` Give  me  Everything '' which reached # 1 worldwide  ,  and featured artists Ne-yo ,  nayer  ,  और  Afrojack .
He has also performed  as  a featured artist in the remixes of many other hit  गीतों  , like Tik Tok , Scream & Shout , Lo Hecho Esta  hecho  , Bad , Papi  ,   ईंट  , How Low ,  tonight  ( I 'm Lovin ' You ) , Video  फोन  ,  over  To You Now and Bumpy Ride .
Pérez is also the  मेजबान  of his own Spanish-language  कार्यक्रम  on  the  cable channel Mun2 titled La Esquina ( Spanish for The Corner ) .
in  2005 Pérez and rapper Sean 'Diddy ' Combs co-founded Bad Boy  लातीनी   ,   a  subsidiary of  combs  ' Bad Boy Records  लेबल  .
It  primarily  focuses on Latin hip hop , Latin soul , Latin pop and  अन्य  Tropical music , and has  कार्यालयों  in New York and Miami , Florida .
साथ  with co-founding  it  , Pérez currently heads the A & R division of the label .
Pérez has  become  a product endorser , representing alongside Drake , Rihanna , and  trey  Songz the “So Kodak” campaign for the Kodak brand  और  embarking on a partnership with the soft drink  दानव  Dr  pepper   as  part  of  the  अभियान  “ Vida  23  ” for  जिससे  he recorded the song specifically featured on his album Armando .
pitbull  also announced  he  has become the spokesperson for  voli  Vodka , in which he holds  a  majority  इक्विटी  stake , and Budweiser has chosen Pitbull to promote its Bud  लाइट  line of beer .
The commercials currently highlight Pitbull dancing  और  gyrating on  स्टेज  holding up a bottle of Bud Light .
Pitbull has also  खरीदा  an equity stake in Miami Subs Pizza and Grill  .
हैलोवीन  or Hallowe'en (  a   संकुचन  of `` All Hallows  '  Evening ``  )  ,  भी  known as All Hallows ' Eve , is a yearly  जश्न  observed in a number  of  countries on October  31  , the  संध्या  of  the  Western Christian feast of  सब  Hallows ( or All Saints ) and  the  day initiating the triduum of  hallowmas  .
According to many scholars ,  सब  Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast  originally   बहकावे  by western European harvest festivals , and  त्यौहार   of   the  dead  साथ  possible  pagan   जड़ें  , particularly  the  Celtic Samhain .
Other scholars maintain that  it  originated independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots .
Typical festive Halloween activities  शामिल  trick-or-treating ( also known as  ``  guising `` ) , attending costume parties  ,  carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns , lighting  bonfires  , apple bobbing , visiting haunted  आकर्षण  , playing pranks , telling scary  कहानियां  ,  और  watching horror films .
स्वतंत्रता  of speech  is  the political right to  communicate  one 's opinions and ideas  using  one 's body and property to anyone who is willing to receive  उन्हें  .
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously  ,  but  शामिल   कोई  act of seeking , receiving and imparting information  or  ideas  ,  regardless  of  the  मीडियम  used .
In practice , the  सही  to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country and  the  right is commonly subject to limitations , as  साथ  libel ,  बदनामी  , obscenity ,  राजद्रोह   (  including ,  लिये   उदाहरण  inciting  जातीय  hatred ) , copyright  उल्लंघन  , revelation of information that is classified or otherwise .
The right to freedom of expression is recognized as a human right  अंतर्गत   आलेख  19  of  the Universal Declaration of Human  अधिकारों  and recognized in international  इंसान  rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political  अधिकारों  (  iccpr  ) .
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the  सही  to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall  have  the  सही  to freedom  of   अभिव्यक्ति  ; this right shall include freedom to seek  ,  receive and impart  सूचना  and ideas of  सब  kinds , regardless of  frontiers   ,  either orally , in writing  or  in print ,  in  the form of art , or through any other media of his choice '' .
Article 19  goes  on  to  say that the  कसरत  of these rights carries `` special duties  और   जिम्मेदारियों   ``   और  may ``  इसलिए   be  subject to certain restrictions '' when necessary  ``  [ f  ]  or  आदर  of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or  the  protection  of  national security or of public order ( order public ) , or of public health or morals '' .
Freedom of  वाक   may  be  legally  curtailed in  कुछ   धार्मिक  legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where  it  is found  to  cause religious offense , such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred  अधिनियम  2006 .
Sydney  harbour  from the  एयर  , showing the Opera House  ,  the CBD  ,  Circular Quay , the Bridge  ,  the Parramatta River , North Sydney and Kirribilli  in  the foreground
the   सिडनी   harbour  Bridge is a steel through arch bridge  आरपार   सिडनी  Harbour that carries rail  ,  vehicular ,  सायकिल  and pedestrian traffic between the Sydney central business district ( CBD ) and the North Shore .
the  dramatic view of  the  bridge  ,  the harbour , and the nearby  सिडनी  Opera House is an  iconic  image  of  Sydney , New South Wales  ,  and Australia .
The bridge is nicknamed `` The Coathanger '' because of its arch-based design .
Under the directions of  dr  J.J.C .  bradfield   of  the NSW  विभाग  of Public Works , the bridge  थी  designed and built by British firm Dorman Long  और  Co Ltd of Middlesbrough and opened in 1932 .
the  bridge 's  डिज़ाइन  was  बहकावे  by the  नरक  Gate Bridge in New York .
It was  the  world 's widest long-span  सेतु   ,  at 48.8 meters ( 160 feet )  चौड़ी   ,   जबतक  construction of the new  बंदरगाहों  Mann Bridge  in  Vancouver .
It is  भी  the fifth longest  spanning-arch   सेतु   in  the  संसार  ,  और   it   is  the tallest steel arch bridge , measuring from top to water level .
Until 1967 the Harbour Bridge was Sydney 's tallest  ढांचा  .
The Hawaii hotspot is a volcanic hotspot located near the namesake Hawaiian Islands , in  the   उत्तरी  Pacific Ocean .
एक   of   the   सबसे  well-known and heavily studied hotspots in the world ,  the  Hawaii plume is responsible for the creation of the Hawaiian  –  Emperor seamount  कड़ी  , an over 5,800 kilometres ( 3,600 mi  )  long chain  of  volcanoes , four of  जिससे  are active  ,  two of which are dormant , and more than  123  of which are extinct , many  having  since been ground  beneath  the waves by erosion as seamounts  और  atolls .
the  chain extends  इससे   दक्षिण  of the island of Hawaii to the edge of the Aleutian Trench  ,  near the eastern edge of Russia .
जबकि  most volcanoes are  निर्मित  by geological  कार्यकलाप   at   tectonic  plate boundaries , the Hawaii hotspot is  स्तिथ   दूर  from  आसपास  plate boundaries ; the classic hotspot theory  ,  first  प्रस्तावित  in 1963 by John  tuzo  Wilson , proposes that a  सिंगल  ,  फिक्स्ड  mantle plume builds volcanoes that then , cut off  इससे  their source by the movement of the Pacific Plate ,  become  increasingly inactive and eventually erode  नीचे   समुद्र  level over millions of  सालो  .
According to this  सिद्धान्त   ,  the nearly 60° bend separating the  सम्राट  and Hawaiian  खण्ड  of the chain  थी  caused by a sudden shift  in  the movement of the Pacific  थाली  .
In 2003 , fresh  investigations  of this irregularity led to the proposal of  a  mobile hotspot theory , suggesting  कि  hotspots are mobile , not fixed ,  और  that the  47  million year  बूढ़ा  bend was  caused  by  a  shift  in   the  hotspot 's  गति  rather than the plate 's .
Ancient Hawaiians were  the  first to recognize the  increasing   आयु  and weathered state of the  ज्वालामुखी  to the north as they progressed  on  fishing expeditions along the islands .
The  volatile  state of the Hawaiian volcanoes and  उनके  constant battle with the sea  थी   a  major  तत्व  in Hawaiian mythology ,  समाविष्ट  in Pele , the deity of  ज्वालामुखी  .
After the arrival of Europeans on the island , in  1880-1881  James Dwight Dana  निर्देशित  the  पहला  formal geological study of the hotspot 's  volcanics   ,  confirming  the   संबंध  long observed  by  the natives .
1912 marked the  founding  of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory by volcanologist  थामस  Jaggar  ,   initiating  continuous scientific  अवलोकन  of the islands .
In the 1970s , a mapping project was initiated to  लाभ  more information about the complex geology of Hawaii 's seafloor .
The hotspot has  चूंकि  been tomographically imaged  ,  showing it to  be   चौड़ी  and up to deep , and olivine and garnet -based studies have shown its magma  कक्ष  is approximately .
In its  at  least  85  million years of activity  the  hotspot has produced an estimated of rock  .
The chain 's rate of drift  रै  slowly increased over time  ,   causing  the amount of  समय  each individual volcano is active to decrease ,  इससे  18 million years for the 76 million year old Detroit Seamount , to just under  900,000  for  the   एक  million  year-old  Kohala ;  on  the other hand  ,   eruptive  volume has  increased  from per year to about .
Overall , this has caused  a  trend towards more  क्रियाशील  but quickly-silenced ,  closely  spaced  volcanoes—whereas  volcanoes on  the  near  पक्ष  of  the  hotspot overlap each other ( forming  ऐसे  superstructures  as   हवाई   द्वीप  and the  प्राचीन  Maui Nui ) , the oldest  of  the Emperor seamounts are  spaced  as far as apart .
David Palmer ,  निदेशक  of the show , announced that the season 4  finale  is the series finale because Nickelodeon canceled  the  show .
Petitions are being signed to bring the show for  a   पांचवां   ऋतु  .
The show airs on Treehouse TV Canada and Nick  jr.   (  formerly Noggin ) .
Eddie  और  the Cruisers  is  a 1983 American film directed by Martin Davidson with the screenplay written by the  निदेशक  and Arlene  डेविडसन  , based  on  the novel by  P.  F. Kluge .
it  was marketed  साथ  the tagline `` Rebel .
Rocker .
Lover .
Idol .
Vanished . ''
Osteonecrosis of the jaw  (  ONJ ) is a severe bone disease that affects the maxilla and  the  mandible .
विभिन्न  forms of ONJ  have  been described  over   the  last 160 years  ,  and a  क्रमांक  of causes have been suggested in the literature .
Osteonecrosis of the jaws  संबद्ध   साथ  bisphosphonate  चिकित्सा   ,  required  by  some cancer treatment regimens  ,  has been identified and defined  as  a pathological entity since 2003 .
The possible risk from lower oral  doses  of bisphosphonates , taken by patients to  prevent  or treat osteoporosis ,  remains  uncertain .
Various treatment  विकल्प  have been explored , however severe cases of ONJ still require surgical removal of the  प्रभावित  bone  .
a  thorough history and  assessement  of pre-existing systemic problems and  संभावित  sites  of  dental infection are required  to   सहायता   prevent  the condition , especially  if  bisphosphonate therapy  is   माना  .
the  Boston Red Sox are  a  professional  बेसबॉल  team based in  बोस्टन   ,   मैसाचुसेट्स  ,  और  a  सदस्य  of Major League Baseball 's American League Eastern Division .
Founded in as one of the American League 's  आठ  charter franchises , the Red Sox 's  घर  ballpark has been Fenway Park since .
the  `` Red Sox  ''  name  थी  chosen  by  the team owner , John I.  टेलर  , around , following previous Boston teams that had been known as the ``  रेड  Stockings  ``  .
वे  have played in 11 World  श्रेणी  , winning 7  .
Boston was a  प्रबल  team in the new league , defeating  the  Pittsburgh Pirates  in  the first World Series in  और  winning four more  championships  by .
However , they then went into one of the longest  चैंपियनशिप  droughts in baseball history , called  by   कुछ  the  ``  Curse of  the   bambino   ``  after its alleged  शुरूआत   साथ  the Red Sox 's  बिक्री  of Babe Ruth  to  the rival Yankees  दो  years after their world  चैंपियनशिप  in 1918 , an 86-year wait before the team 's sixth World Championship  in  .
However , the team  's  history during that period was hardly one of futility , but was  बल्कि  punctuated  साथ  some of the most memorable moments  in  World Series history , including Enos Slaughter  's  `` mad  डैश   ``   in  , the `` Impossible Dream `` of  ,   कार्लटन  Fisk  's  home  चलाएं  in , and Bill Buckner 's error  in  .
Red  sox  history has also been marked by the team 's intense  फंसने   साथ  the New York Yankees , arguably  the  fiercest and most historic in North American professional  खेल  .
the  Boston Red  sox  are owned by Fenway  खेल  Group  ,  who also  अपना  Liverpool Football  क्लबों  of the Premier  लीग  in England .
The Red  sox  are consistently one of the top MLB teams in average  सड़क   उपस्थिति  ,  जबकि  the  छोटी  capacity of Fenway Park prevents them from leading  in   overall  attendance .
इससे  May 15 ,  2003  to April 10  ,   2013  , the  रेड   sox  sold out every home game-a total of  820  games ( 794 regular season  )  for  a  major  पेशेवर   खेल  record that  lasted  almost  a   दशक  .
mince  pie  भर  with mincemeat
Mincemeat  is   a   मिश्रण  of chopped dried fruit ,  आसुत  spirits and spices  ,  and sometimes beef  suet  , beef , or venison .
Originally  ,  mincemeat always contained meat .
अनेक  modern recipes contain beef  suet  , though vegetable shortening is sometimes used  in  its place .
Variants of mincemeat are  मिला   in  Australia , Brittany ,  कनाडा  , northern  यूरोपीय  , Ireland , South Africa , the  संयुक्त  Kingdom and  the   संयुक्त  States .
in  some countries the term mincemeat refers to minced  or  ground meat .
Diana , Princess of Wales ( Diana Frances ; née Spencer ; 1 July 1961  –  31 August 1997 ) was the  पहला  wife of Charles , Prince of Wales , the eldest  बेटे   और  heir apparent of Queen Elizabeth II .
She was well known for her fund-raising work for international charities and as an eminent celebrity of  the  late 20th century .
Her wedding to the Prince of Wales on 29 July 1981 was  आयोजित  at  st  Paul 's Cathedral  और  seen  by  a global  टेलीविज़न  audience of over 750  लाख   .
While  शादीशुदा  she bore the  शीर्षक  Princess of Wales ,  duchess  of Cornwall , Duchess of Rothesay , Countess of Chester  और  Baroness of Renfrew .
The marriage produced  दो   बेटे  , the princes William and Harry , who became second and third in line to the  अंग्रेजों  throne .
Diana was born into an aristocratic English family with royal ancestry .
She was the  चौथी   चाइल्ड   of  John  स्पेंसर   ,   8th  Earl Spencer and his  बीवी  Frances , daughter of Maurice Roche , 4th Baron Fermoy  .
She  became  a public figure with  the  announcement of her engagement .
वो  also  प्राप्त  recognition for her charity work and for her  support  of the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Campaign to Ban  landmines  .
इससे  1989 , she was the president  of  the Great Ormond Street Hospital for children , in addition to dozens of other charities .
Diana  remained   the  object of worldwide media scrutiny  दौरान  and after  उसके   विवाह  , which ended in divorce  on  28 August 1996 .
Media  ध्यान   और  public  शोक  were considerable  following  her death in a car crash in  पेरिस   on  31 August 1997 .
Argentina , officially the Argentine  गणतंत्र  (  )   ,  is the second largest country in both South America  और  the Latin America region .
The country is a  संघ  of  23  provinces and the autonomous  नगर   of  Buenos Aires , its capital and  largest  city .
it  is  the  eighth -largest country in the world  by  land  क्षेत्रफल   और  the  largest  among Spanish-speaking nations by geographical  क्षेत्रफल  of 2,780,400 km2 and is the fourth  by  population , with over 41 million  लोगों  .
Argentina is a founding member of the United Nations , Mercosur  ,  the Union of South American  राष्ट्र  , the Organization of Ibero-American  राज्य  , the World Bank  समूह  and the World  व्यापार  Organization , and  is  one of the G-15  और  G-20 major  economies   .
Argentina is located in South America ,  bordered  by Chile to the west and  दक्षिण  ,  बोलीविया  and Paraguay to  the  north and  ब्राज़ील   और  Uruguay to  the  northeast .
Argentina claims sovereignty over part of Antarctica ,  the  Falkland Islands ( ) and South Georgia and the South Sandwich  आइलैंड्स  .
Argentina is the successor state of the  viceroyalty  of the  río  de la Plata , an overseas colony of the Spanish Empire .
अर्जेंटीना  declared independence during the Argentine War of Independence , which was followed by the Argentine  सिविल  Wars during  सबसे  of the  19th  century .
The country faced several military coups  और  political instability during the  20th   सदी  , along with periodic economic crisis that continue  to  this day .
A  पहचाना  Southern Cone power , and middle power , Argentina  is  Latin America 's third-largest economy , with a `` very high '' rating  on  the Human development index .
भीतर  Latin America , Argentina  रै   the   पांचवां   उच्चतम  nominal  जीडीपी   प्रति   capita   और   the  highest in purchasing  शक्ति  terms .
the  Legatum Institute have argued  कि   the  country has a  ``  foundation for future growth due to  इसके   मार्केट  size , levels of foreign direct investment  ,  and percentage of high-tech  निर्यात   as  share of total manufactured goods '' , and it is classed  by   निवेशकों  as middle  उभरते  economy .
Argentina is the Latin American country with the most Nobel  पुरस्कार   ,  for a total of five , all  प्राप्त  during the second half of the twentieth century .
The country has  तीन  Nobel prizes  in  science and two  of  peace .
The most important aspects of science and technology in Argentina are concerned with medicine , nuclear  भौतिकी  ,  जैवप्रौद्योगिकी  , nanotechnology , space and  प्रक्षेपास्त्र  technology  और  several  फ़ील्ड  related to the country 's  प्रमुख  Economic Activities .
The  देश  also has the mega exhibition  बीच  of science , technology  ,   उद्योग  and art that are Latin America 's largest .
Hickory  is  a city in  catawba   काउंटी  , with parts also in Burke County  और  Caldwell County .
The city  's  2010 estimated population is 40,010 .
Hickory is the principal city in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton  एमएसए  , in which the population at the 2010 Census was 365,497 .
polyethylene  terephthalate ( sometimes  लिखा  poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ) , commonly abbreviated  पालतु   ,  PETE , or the obsolete PETP or PET-P ,  is  a  thermoplastic  polymer resin of the polyester family  और  is used  in   सिंथेटिक  fibers ; beverage , food and other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications  ;  and engineering resins often in combination with  कांच  fiber .
The term polyethylene terephthalate is a  सोर्स   of   भ्रम   क्युकी   इस  substance , PET , does not contain polyethylene .
यूँ   ,  the alternate form , poly (  एथिलीन  terephthalate )  ,   is  often  प्रयुक्त  in scholarly journals for the sake of accuracy and  स्पष्टता  .
depending  on its processing  और  thermal history , polyethylene terephthalate  may  exist both as an amorphous ( transparent ) and as a  semi-crystalline  polymer .
The  semicrystalline  material might appear transparent ( particle size <  500  nm )  or  opaque and white (  कण  size up  to  a few microns ) depending on its crystal structure and  कण  size  .
Its monomer  (  bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be  synthesized   by  the esterification reaction between terephthalic acid and ethylene glycol with water as a byproduct , or by transesterification reaction  between   एथिलीन  glycol and dimethyl terephthalate  साथ  methanol  as  a byproduct .
बहुलकीकरण  is through a polycondensation  प्रतिक्रिया  of  the  monomers  (  done  तत्काल  after esterification/transesterification ) with  जल   as  the byproduct .
The majority of the world 's PET production  is  for synthetic  मछली  ( in excess of 60 % )  ,  with bottle  उत्पादन  accounting for around  30  % of  वैश्विक  demand .
In the context  of  textile  अनुप्रयोग   ,  PET is  referred  to by  इसके  common name , `` polyester , ''  whereas  the acronym ``  पालतु   ''   is  generally used in relation  to  packaging .
Polyester makes  up  about 18  %  of world  पॉलिमर  production  और  is  the   third-most-produced  polymer ; polyethylene (  pe  ) and polypropylene ( PP ) are  पहला  and  दूसरी  , respectively .
PET  consists  of  polymerized  units of the monomer ethylene terephthalate , with repeating  c10h8o4  units .
PET is commonly recycled ,  और  has the number `` 1 '' as its recycling symbol .
Louisiana was admitted to the Union on April 30 , 1812  ,   और   elects  senators to Classes  2   और  Class 3 .
Its  वर्तमान   सीनेटरों  are Democrat  मरियम  Landrieu and Republican David Vitter .
Black  खीर  , blood pudding or  रक्त  sausage  is   a  type of sausage made by cooking blood or dried blood with  a  filler  जबतक  it  is  thick enough to congeal when cooled .
The dish exists in various cultures from Asia to Europe and the Americas .
Pig  ,  cattle , sheep ,  बतख  ,  और  goat blood can  be  used depending on different countries .
in   यूरोपीय  and the Americas , typical fillers include meat ,  मोटे   ,   suet   ,  bread  ,  cornmeal , sweet potato ,  प्याज  ,  chestnuts  , barley , and oatmeal .
In Spain ,  पुर्तगाल  and Asia , potato is often replaced by rice .
Stakeholder may refer to:
Stakeholder  (  corporate ) , a person , group , organization , member  or  system who affects  or  can be affected by  an  organization 's actions
Stakeholder , an  एंटिटी  that can be affected by the results  of  that in which they are said  to  be stakeholders , i.e. , that in which they have a stake .
प्रोजेक्ट  stakeholder  ,  a  व्यक्ति  , group  or  organization with an interest in a project
Stakeholder  सिद्धान्त  , a  सिद्धान्त  that identifies and models the groups which  हैं  stakeholders of a corporation or project
शेयरधारक  analysis , the process of identifying those affected by a project or event
Stakeholder ( law )  ,  a third  पार्टी   जो  temporarily holds  धन   or  property  जबकि   इसके  owner is still being determined
Jack Smight  (   कूच  9 , 1925  -  September 1 , 2003  )  was an American theatre and film director  .
Smight was born in Minneapolis  ,   मिनेसोटा  and went to school with future actor Peter Graves .
His film credits include The Traveling Executioner  ,  Rabbit , Run , Loving  युगल  , Midway , Harper , Airport  1975  , Damnation  alley   और  the Emmy Award -winning  एडी  , as well  as  many episodes of television  श्रेणी  such as The Twilight  मण्डल  and The Alfred Hitchcock Hour .
He also directed the 1960 Broadway play The 49th  cousin  and composed the music  लिये  the film adaption of Roll  of  Thunder  सुन  My Cry .
Smight  died  from cancer  in  Los Angeles , California .
Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev ( ; 8 February  1834  – 2 February 1907 O.S . 27  जनवरी  1834 – 20 January  1907  ) was  a  Russian chemist and inventor .
He formulated the Periodic Law , created  उसके  own version of  the  periodic table  of  elements , and used it to correct the properties of  कुछ   already   खोजा  elements and also  to  predict the properties of elements yet to be  खोजा  !
Modesto  (   स्पेनी   लिये  `` modest '' ) , officially the City  of  Modesto , is  the  county seat and largest city  of  Stanislaus County ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , United  राज्य  .
साथ   a  population of  लगभग  201,165  at  the 2010 census ,  modesto  ranks as the 18th  largest  city in the state of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   .
The Modesto Census County Division , which includes  the   शहरों  of Ceres and Riverbank , has a population of 312,842 as  of  2010 .
Modesto is located  in   the   सेंट्रल  valley area of Northern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , 90  मील  north of Fresno , 92 miles  ईस्ट  of  सैन  Francisco , 68 miles south of  the  state  पूंजी  of Sacramento , 66  मील  west  of  Yosemite National Park , and  24  miles south of Stockton .
modesto  , a 29-time Tree City  यूएसए  honoree , is surrounded  by  rich  farmland  , lending to a ranking for the county  as   6th  among all California counties in farm  उत्पादन  .
led  by milk , almonds ,  मुर्गियों  , walnuts , and corn silage , the county grossed nearly $  3.1  billion in agricultural production  in  2011 .
modesto   थी  immortalized in the 1973 George Lucas film American  graffiti  .
The award winning  फिल्मी   captured  the spirit  of  `` cruising  ''   और  friendship  on  10th and 11th Streets in 1962 and  led   to  the revival of 1950 's  nostalgia  that included the  tv  show  प्रसन्न  Days and the other  spin-offs  .
Ron Howard , Harrison Ford and Richard  dreyfuss  starred in  the  film .
The soundtrack was a huge success .
निदेशक  George Lucas is a native of Modesto , graduating from Downey High  स्कूल  in  1962  .
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index  लिये  2011 ,  जिससे  interviews 1,000  भागीदार   रोज़  and asks individuals to assess their jobs , finances  ,  physical health , emotional  राज्य  of mind and communities  ,  ranked Modesto  126  out of the 190  शहरों  surveyed  .
In  दिसम्बर  2009 , Forbes ranked Modesto 48th  आउट  of  100   among  ``  बेहतरीन  Bang-for-the-Buck Cities '' .
In this ranking  ,  Modesto ranked 8th in housing affordability and travel time  लकिन   भी  ranked 86th in job  भविष्यवाणी  growth  और  99th in foreclosures .
Independence Day , commonly known as the Fourth of July , is  a  federal  अवकाश   in   the   संयुक्त   राज्य  commemorating the adoption of the  घोषणा  of Independence on July  4  , 1776  ,  declaring independence  इससे  the  किंगडम  of  ग्रेट   ब्रिटेन   .
Independence Day is commonly  संबद्ध  with  आतिशबाजी  , parades , barbecues , carnivals , fairs  ,  picnics , concerts , baseball games , family reunions , and political speeches and ceremonies  ,   in  addition to various other public and  निजी  events  celebrating  the history  ,  government ,  और  traditions of the United States .
Independence Day is the national day of the  संयुक्त   राज्य   .
A gender symbol denotes the sex of an organism or characterizes an agent  by   लिंग  .
The two standard gender symbols denoting male ♂ and female ♀  हैं  derived from astrological symbols ,  denoting  the classical planets  मंगल  and Venus , respectively .
These symbols have been in use  चूंकि  the Renaissance also denoting elements in alchemy , specifically the metals  आयरन   और  copper .
वे   यहूद  first used to denote the effective gender of plants (  i.e   .  sex of individual in a given crossbreed , since most plants are  hermaphroditic  ) by Carolus  लीनियस   in  1751  .
a   leasehold  estate is an ownership of a temporary right to hold land or property in which  a   lessee  or  a  tenant holds  अधिकारों  of real property by some  रूप  of title from a lessor or landlord .
Although a tenant does hold rights to  रियल  property , a leasehold estate is typically considered personal property .
Leasehold is a form  of  land  कार्यकाल   or  property  कार्यकाल  where  एक  party buys  the  right to  occupy  land or a building  लिये  a given length of  समय  .
As lease is a legal estate , leasehold estate can be  खरीदा   और  sold on  the   खोलें  market .
A leasehold thus differs  इससे  a freehold or fee  सरल   जहाँ  the ownership of a property  is  purchased outright and  thereafter  held  लिये  an indeterminate  लंबाई  of time , and  भी  differs  इससे  a tenancy where  a  property  is  let ( rented ) on a  आवधिक   आधार  such as weekly or  मासिक  .
Until the end of the  पट्टे  period ( often measured in  दशकों  or centuries ; a  99   साल  lease is quite common ) the  leaseholder  has the right to remain in occupation as an  assured   किरायेदार   paying  an agreed rent to  the  owner  .
Terms of the agreement are contained  in  a  पट्टे  , which  रै   तत्व  of contract and property law intertwined .
the   पद   एस्टेट  for years may occasionally be used .
This refers to a leasehold estate for  कोई  specific  काल  of time ( the word `` years ''  is  misleading ) .
An estate for  सालो  is  नहीं  automatically  नवीनीकृत  .
colloquially  , `` lease '' and `` leasing ``  हैं  often a formalization of a longer ,  विशिष्ट   काल  as  compared  with a ``  rental  '' that created a tenancy at will , terminable or renewable at the  समाप्त  of  a  short period .
ओलिविया   (  also  ज्ञात   as  Welcome  to   the  World  of  the Pig  ओलिविया   )  is a British-American children 's animated television  श्रेणी  produced by media company Chorion and based on Ian Falconer 's books  .
it  is seen  on   उपनाम  Jr. in  the  US , Milkshake !
, Nick Jr. in the UK and Ireland , and Disney Junior in Latin America and Brazil ,  treehouse   tv  in Canada .
The show has won a  चांदी  Parents ' Choice Award for its positive story  लाइनों   और  characters .
Location of Panama between  प्रशांत  (  नीचे  )  और  Caribbean ( top )  ,  with canal at top center
The Panama Canal (  )  is a  जलयान  canal in Panama  कि  connects the Atlantic Ocean ( via the  caribbean  Sea )  to  the Pacific Ocean .
the  canal  कटौती  across the  isthmus  of Panama and is a key  conduit  for international maritime trade .
There are  ताले  at each end to  लिफ्ट  ships  up   to  Gatun Lake (  ऊपर  sea-level ) .
gatun  Lake was created to reduce the amount of work required for the canal .
The current  ताले  are wide .
A third , wider lane of locks is being built .
France began work  on   the   कनाल  in  1881  , but had to stop because  of   अभियान्त्रिकी  problems and  ऊँची  mortality due to disease .
the  United States  (  US  )  later took over the project and  took  a decade to complete the  कनाल  in  1914  ,  enabling  ships to  avoid  the lengthy Cape Horn route around the southernmost tip  of  South America ( via the Drake Passage  )  or to navigate the Strait  of   magellan  .
One of the  largest  and  सबसे  difficult engineering  प्रोजेक्ट   कभी   undertaken  , the Panama Canal shortcut made  it  possible for ships to travel between  the   अटलांटिक  and Pacific Oceans in half the time previously required  .
The  shorter  , faster , safer  रूट  to the US West Coast and to nations in  और  along  the   प्रशांत  Ocean allowed those  स्थान  to become more integrated with the  संसार   अर्थव्यवस्था  .
During this time  ,  ownership of the territory  कि   is   अभी  the Panama Canal was first Colombian , then French ,  और  then  अमरीकी  ; the United States completed  the  construction  .
The canal was taken over in  1999   by  the Panamanian government ,  as  long planned  .
Annual traffic  रै  risen from about  1,000  ships when the canal opened  in   1914  , to 14,702 vessels  in  2008 , the  latter  measuring a total  of  309.6 million Panama Canal/Universal Measurement System ( PC/UMS ) tons .
By  2008  , more than 815,000  बरतन  had passed  through  the canal , many of them much larger than the original  planners  could have  envisioned  ; the  largest  ships that can transit  the  canal  आज  are called Panamax .
The American Society of Civil  इंजीनियर्स  has  नामित   the   पनामा  Canal one of the seven  चमत्कार  of the modern world .
Benjamin  फ्रैंकलिन  ( April 17 , 1790 ) was one of the Founding  fathers  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
A noted  बहुश्रुत   ,  Franklin  थी  a leading  लेखक  , printer , political theorist , politician , postmaster ,  वैज्ञानिक  , musician , inventor ,  satirist  , civic activist  ,   statesman  , and diplomat  .
As a scientist ,  he  was a major figure in the American Enlightenment and the history  of  physics for his discoveries and theories regarding electricity  .
he   invented  the lightning rod , bifocals , the Franklin stove , a carriage  ओडोमीटर  , and the glass 'armonica ' .
He facilitated many civic organizations , including a fire  विभाग  and a university .
Franklin earned the title of  ``   the  First  अमरीकी  '' for  उसके  early and  indefatigable  campaigning for  औपनिवेशिक  unity ;  as  an  लेखक  and  प्रवक्ता   in  London for several colonies , then as  the  first  संयुक्त  States Ambassador to France , he exemplified the emerging American nation .
फ्रैंकलिन  was foundational in defining the American  ethos   as  a marriage of the practical values of thrift  ,   मुश्किल  work  ,  education , community spirit ,  self-governing  institutions , and opposition to authoritarianism both  राजनैतिक  and  धार्मिक  , with the  वैज्ञानिक  and  सहिष्णु  values of  the  Enlightenment .
in  the words of historian  हेनरी  Steele Commager , `` In  a  Franklin could be merged the virtues of Puritanism without its  दोषों  , the illumination of  the  Enlightenment without  इसके  heat . ''
To Walter Isaacson  ,   इस   makes  Franklin  ``  the most accomplished American of his age and  the  most influential in inventing the  प्रकार   of  society America would become . ''
Franklin , always proud of his working  क्लास  roots , became a successful newspaper editor and printer in Philadelphia , the leading city  in  the colonies  .
he  was also partners with  विलियम  Goddard and  जोसेफ   गैलोवे  the  तीन  of whom published  the  Pennsylvania Chronicle , a newspaper that was known  लिये  its revolutionary sentiments and  आलोचनाओं  of the British monarchy  in  the American  colonies  .
He became wealthy publishing Poor Richard  's  Almanack and The Pennsylvania  गजट  .
Franklin gained international renown as a scientist for  उसके  famous experiments in electricity and for his many  आविष्कारों   ,  especially the  बिजली  rod .
He played  a  major role in establishing the University of Pennsylvania and was elected  the  first president of the American  philosophical  Society  .
Franklin became a national hero  in  America when  he  spearheaded the effort to have Parliament repeal the  unpopular   स्टैम्प   अधिनियम  .
An accomplished diplomat , he was widely  admired   among  the French as American minister to Paris  और  was a major figure in the development of positive Franco-American relations .
For many years he was the  अंग्रेजों   postmaster  for the  colonies  , which  सक्रिय  him to  नियत  up the first national communications network  .
He was  क्रियाशील  in community  अफेयर्स  , colonial  और  state politics , as well as national and international affairs .
From  1785  to 1788 , he served as governor of Pennsylvania .
Toward  the  end of his  जीवन  , he freed his slaves and became one of  the  most prominent abolitionists .
His  रंगीन   जीवन  and legacy of  वैज्ञानिक   और   राजनैतिक  achievement , and status  as  one of America 's  सबसे  influential Founding Fathers  ,   have  seen  फ्रैंकलिन  honored on coinage and money ; warships ; the names  of  many towns , counties ,  शैक्षणिक  institutions  ,  namesakes , and companies ; and more than two centuries after his death , countless cultural references .
Criminal Minds is an  अमरीकी  police procedural television program that premiered  सितंबर  22 , 2005 , on CBS .
the  series follows  a  team  of  profilers from the FBI 's  behavioral  Analysis  ईकाई  ( BAU ) based in  क्वांटिको  ,  वर्जिनिया  .
The BAU is part of the FBI National  बीच  for the Analysis of Violent Crime .
The show differs from many procedural dramas  by   focusing  on profiling the criminal , rather  than   the  crime itself .
The  दिखाएँ   is  produced by  the  Mark Gordon  कम्पनी  in association with CBS Television Studios  (  originally  सर्वोपरि  Network Television  तब   सीबीएस   सर्वोपरि  Network  टेलीविज़न  ) and ABC  studios  (  originally   touchstone  Television ) .
CBS announced in October 2009 that Legacy Interactive would  develop  a video game based on the show .
the  game  होता   आवश्यकता  players to examine crime scenes for clues  to   सहायता   solve  murder mysteries .
The interactive puzzle game  थी  released in  2012  , but did not feature  कोई   of  the voices of the show 's cast  ,  nor was the cast  शामिल  with  the  project .
On March 14 , 2012 , CBS  नवीनीकृत  Criminal  minds  for an eighth season , which premiered on September 26 , 2012 .
`` Heart-Shaped Box '' is a song by the American grunge band Nirvana , written by vocalist and guitarist  कर्ट  Cobain .
The song was  released   as  the  पहला  single from the group 's  तीसरा  and final  स्टुडियो  album , In Utero , in 1993  .
It was one  of  two songs  इससे   the  album mixed by Scott Litt in order to  augment  the original production by producer Steve Albini  .
जबकि  Nirvana 's label DGC Records  किया  not release a physical single for sale in  the  United States , `` Heart-Shaped Box '' received  much  American radio airplay  ,  reaching number one on the Billboard  आधुनिक  Rock Tracks  चार्ट  .
The international release of the single reached number five  on  the UK Singles Chart .
The song  's  music video , directed by Anton Corbijn ,  garnered   नाजुक   plaudits  .
The orbital speed of a body  ,  generally a planet , a natural satellite , an artificial satellite , or a multiple star , is the speed at which it orbits around  the  barycenter of a system  ,  usually  around  a more massive  देह  .
It can be used to refer to either the mean orbital speed , the average speed as it  completes  an orbit , or instantaneous orbital speed , the speed at  a   particular  point in its orbit .
the  orbital  गति   at  any position in the  कक्षा  can be computed from the  अलहदा   to  the central  देह  at that position , and the specific orbital energy , which is independent of position  :  the kinetic energy is the total energy minus  the  potential energy  .
Brown  राजमहल  Interior and Atrium
Brown Palace Hotel is the second-oldest operating hotel  in  Denver  ,  Colorado and is one of  the  first atrium-style  होटल  ever  निर्मित  .
It is  अभी  operated by  कोरम  Hotels and  रिसॉर्ट  .
It was  निर्मित   in  1892 , one year later than the Oxford Hotel .
It was  नामित  for its original owner , Henry C. Brown  ,  and was  designed  with its odd triangular shape  by  architect Frank Edbrooke .
The hotel is located at 321 17th St  ,  Denver , CO between 17th  गली  ,  ब्रॉडवे  and Tremont Street/Pl in downtown Denver behind the  गणतंत्र  Plaza .
The  प्रमुख   प्रवेश  door  is  on Tremont Street .
dvd-video  is a  उपभोक्ता   वीडियो   स्वरूप  used  to  store digital video  on  DVD discs , and  is  currently the  प्रबल   उपभोक्ता  video format in Asia , North  अमेरिका  , Europe , and Australia .
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive  और   an  H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g.  ,  a DVD player , or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD  खिलाड़ी   )   .
Commercial DVD movies are  एनकोडेड  using  a  combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video  और  audio  of  varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ) .
Typically ,  the  data rate for DVD movies ranges from  3  Mbit/s to 9.5  mbit/s   ,   और  the bit rate is usually  अनुकूली   .
It was first available for  खुदरा  around 1997 .
the  DVD-Video specification was created  by   dvd  Forum and can be  प्राप्त  from DVD Format/Logo  लाइसेंसिंग  Corporation for a fee of $  5,000  .
The specification is not publicly available , because every subscriber must sign  a  non-disclosure  अनुबंध  .
Certain information in the DVD Book is proprietary and confidential .
The nautical mile  (  symbol M , NM  or  nmi )  is  a unit of length that is  परिचय   एक  minute  of  arc of latitude measured along any  मध्याह्न  , or about one minute of arc of longitude at the equator .
by   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  agreement  it  has been set at 1,852 metres exactly ( about 6,076 feet ) .
It  is   a  non- SI  ईकाई  ( although accepted for  उपयोग  in the International  प्रणाली  of Units by the BIPM  )  used especially by navigators in  the  shipping and aviation industries , and also in polar exploration .
It is  commonly  used in international law and  treaties  , especially  regarding   the   हद  of  territorial  waters .
It developed from the sea mile and  the  related geographical  मील  .
The nautical mile remains in use by sea and  एयर   navigators  worldwide because of its convenience when working with charts .
Most nautical  चार्ट  use the Mercator projection whose scale varies by about  a  factor  of  six from  the   equator  to 80°  अक्षांश  , so charts covering  विशाल   क्षेत्रों  can  नहीं  use a single linear scale  .
The nautical mile is nearly equal to  a  minute  of  latitude on a chart , so  a  distance  measured  with  a  chart  divider  can be roughly converted to nautical miles using  the  chart 's  अक्षांश  scale  .
Shippensburg is a  बरो  in Cumberland  और  Franklin counties in  the  U.S. state of Pennsylvania  .
settled  in 1730 , Shippensburg lies in the Cumberland Valley ,  41  miles ( 66  km  ) west-southwest of Harrisburg , and is part of  the  Harrisburg– Carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area .
In  1900  , 3,228 people lived there ; in 1910 , 3,457 ; and in 1940 , 5,244 people lived there .
The population was  5,492  at the  2010  census .
Shippensburg was incorporated as a borough on January  21  , 1819 .
in   the  past , there were  फर्नीचर   कारखानों  , engine and pump works , and  अन्य  industrial  works  located within the town  .
Shippensburg is also the home of The  beistle  Company , the oldest and largest  निर्माता  of decorations  और   पार्टी  goods  ,  which  बिकता  its  distinctive  honeycomb  पेपर  decorations  विश्वव्यापी   .
it  is also the location of  pague  and  fegan  ,  the   oldest  continuously operated hardware store in  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
In May 2012 , Volvo Construction Equipment began a $  100  million expansion project to bring its  अमरीकी  headquarters to  shippensburg  .
Shippensburg is  भी  home to Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania  ,  one  of  14  विश्वविद्यालयों  of  the   पेन्सिलवेनिया  State System of Higher Education .
Yearly the last full week of  जुलाई   ,  the Shippensburg Community Fair  is  held  .
Begun in  1958  , the fair bills itself as  पेन्सिलवेनिया  's  largest  bi-county  मेला  .
The fair includes  agricultural   दर्शाती  , a  शिल्प  show , food vendors ,  और  carnival  यात्राएँ  amongst other things .
Every summer on the last Saturday  of  August , Shippensburg  holds  the Corn Festival ,  an  event  कि  brings regional artisans  और  vendors to operate stands downtown .
The downtown  is  closed  to   ट्रैफ़िक  for at least 5  ब्लॉक  for  सबसे   of  the day .
Average attendance at the festival is  अनुमानित   at   60,000  - 70,000  प्रत्येक  year .
ब्लैक  hairy tongue ( BHT , also termed  lingua  villosa nigra ) refers  to  a condition of the  जीभ   जहाँ  the filiform papillae elongate with  ब्लैक  or brown discoloration , giving a black and hairy  रूप  .
The appearance may be alarming ,  लकिन  it is  a  harmless condition .
Predisposing factors include smoking , xerostomia  (  dry mouth ) , soft diet , poor oral  hygiene  and certain  medications  .
Management is by  improving  oral  hygiene  ,  विशेषकर  scraping or  brushing  the tongue .
the  IEEE 1394  इंटरफ़ेस   is  a serial bus interface standard for high-speed communications and  isochronous  real-time data  ट्रांसफ़र  .
It was developed in the late 1980s and  जल्दी  1990s by  ठहराना  , who called it FireWire .
The 1394 interface is comparable  to  USB , and often those two technologies are  माना  together , though USB has more market share .
Apple first included  firewire  in some of  इसके  1999 models , and most Apple computers since the year  2000   have  included FireWire  पोर्ट   ,  though , as of  2013  , nothing beyond the  800  version ( IEEE-1394b  )  .
The interface is also known by the brand i.LINK  (   सोनी  ) , and  लिंक्स  ( Texas Instruments ) .
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel  scsi  in many applications  ,   क्युकी  of  निम्नतर   क्रियान्वयन  costs and a  सरलीकृत   ,  more adaptable cabling system .
The 1394 standard also defines a backplane  इंटरफ़ेस  , though  इस   is  not  as  widely used .
IEEE 1394 is the High-Definition Audio-Video  संजाल   गठबंधन  (  हाना  ) standard connection  इंटरफ़ेस  for A/V  (  audio/visual )  घटक   संचार   और  control .
FireWire is also available in wireless , fiber  ऑप्टिक  ,  और  coaxial versions using the isochronous  प्रोटोकॉल  .
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3  ,  1954 – August 27 , 1990 )  थी  an American guitarist , singer-songwriter ,  और   रिकार्ड  producer  .
Often referred  to  by  उसके   आद्याक्षर   srv  , Vaughan is best known as a founding  सदस्य  and  नेता  of Double  ट्रबल  .
Together with drummer Chris Layton and bassist  टॉमी  Shannon , they ignited the blues revival of  the  1980s  .
With a  करियर   spanning   सात  years , Vaughan  और  Double Trouble consistently sold out concerts while their albums frequently went gold  .
He was born and raised in Dallas , Texas , and for a short period of  समय  lived in  ग्राहम  ,  टेक्सास  .
As the younger brother of Jimmie  vaughan  , Vaughan started playing the guitar  at  age seven and formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs  .
At age  17   ,   he  dropped out of high school and moved to  ऑस्टिन  to  further   pursue  his musical career , joining groups such as Krackerjack , the Nightcrawlers ,  और  the Cobras .
In 1977 ,  he   formed  Triple Threat Revue , a  बैंड  that  आखिरकार  evolved into Double  ट्रबल  and regularly performed  around  Austin .
In  1982  , Vaughan  और  Double  ट्रबल   performed  at the  montreux  Jazz Festival in Switzerland , catching the attention of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne .
बोवी   पूछा  Vaughan to play on his upcoming  स्टुडियो  album Let 's Dance ,  जबकि  Browne  offered  the band free use  of  his personal studio in Los Angeles  to  record an  एल्बम  .
In March 1983  ,  Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by  दिग्गज   रिकार्ड  producer  जॉन  Hammond Sr. and released their debut  एल्बम   ,   टेक्सास  Flood in June of that year  .
After  कामयाब  touring , the  समूह  released the albums , Could n't  स्टैंड  the Weather ( 1984 )  और  Soul to Soul ( 1985 ) ,  the  latter  of   जिससे  featured  नई  keyboardist  रीज़  Wynans .
Although  उसके  career had progressed successfully ,  vaughan  checked  into  a  पुनर्वास  hospital in Atlanta  ,   जॉर्जिया  to give up  a  cocaine and alcohol habit and returned to touring with  the   बैंड   .
In June 1989 ,  in  Step  थी  released and  अर्जित   उन्हें  a Grammy  पुरस्कार  for Best  समकालीन  Blues Performance  .
On August 27  ,  1990 , Vaughan was  मारे  in a helicopter crash following a  प्रदर्शन  in  ईस्ट  Troy ,  विस्कॉन्सिन  .
vaughan  's  uniquely  eclectic  yet  intense style was derived  इससे  a variety  of  musical genres .
He was influenced by  ब्लूज़  musicians including Albert  किंग  , Freddie King , Otis  फटाफट  , and Muddy Waters , and  चट्टान  guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack  .
His guitar playing reflected  the  classic  ब्लूज़  and pentatonic scales .
He has received wide critical recognition for his guitar playing ,  रैंकिंग  at  #  6 on Rolling  पत्थरों   सूची   of  ``  100  Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011 .
He was posthumously inducted into the  ब्लूज़   हॉल   of  Fame in 2000  और  a memorial statue  थी  erected in  ऑस्टिन   's  Auditorium Shores  पार्क  .
Stevie Ray  vaughan   is  widely  माना  to  be  one of the greatest  संगीतकारों  to come from the state of Texas  .
gige  redirects here .
For the camera protocol , see  gige  vision  .
In computer networking , gigabit  ईथरनेट  ( GbE or 1 GigE ) is a  पद   describing   विभिन्न  technologies for transmitting Ethernet frames at a rate  of   a  gigabit per second ( 1,000,000,000 bits per second ) , as defined  by  the IEEE 802.3-2008  मानक  .
It came into use beginning in  1999   ,  gradually supplanting  तेज़  Ethernet in wired local networks ,  जहाँ  it performed considerably faster .
the  cables and equipment  हैं   बहुत  similar to  पिछला  standards and were very  आम  and economical by 2010  .
Half-duplex gigabit links connected  through  hubs are allowed  by  the specification , but full-duplex usage  साथ   switches   is  much  अधिक  common  .
Intel PRO/1000 GT PCI network  इंटरफ़ेस   कार्ड
the   प्रमुख   components  of  a  stamp:
1 . Image
2 . Perforations
3  . Denomination
4  .  Country name
A postage  स्टैम्प  is a  छोटी   टुकड़ा   of  paper that is purchased and  प्रदर्शित  on  an  item  of  mail  as  evidence of payment of postage  .
Typically , stamps are made from special paper , with a national designation  और  denomination ( price ) on  the   फेस  ,  और  a gum adhesive  on  the reverse side .
Postage  stamps   हैं  purchased from a postal administration or other authorized vendor and are used  to  pay for  the  costs involved in moving mail as  खूब  as other business necessities such as insurance and registration .
The stamp’s shape is usually  कि  of a small  आयताकार   of  varying proportions  ,  though triangles or other shapes are  occasionally  used .
the   स्टैम्प  is  affixed  to an envelope  or  other postal cover ( i.e. , packet , box  ,   mailing  cylinder  )  that  the  customer wishes to send  .
The item is then processed by the postal  प्रणाली  , where a  postmark   ,  sometimes  ज्ञात   as   a  cancellation mark , is usually applied over  the   स्टैम्प  and  कवर   ;  this  कार्यविधि  marks the stamp  as  used  ,  which  रोकता   इसके  reuse .
the  postmark indicates  the  date and point of origin of the mailing  .
the  mailed item is then delivered  to  the address that  the  customer has applied to the envelope or cover .
Postage stamps have facilitated  the   डिलीवरी  of mail since  the  1840s .
Before this time  ,  ink  और  hand-stamps ( hence  the  word 'stamp '  )  , usually made from wood or cork , were often used to frank the mail and confirm  the  payment  of  postage  .
The first adhesive postage stamp  ,  commonly referred to  as  the Penny Black , was issued  in  the  संयुक्त  Kingdom in  1840  .
the  invention of the  स्टैम्प  was  a  part of the  attempt   to   सुधार  and improve the postal system in  the  United Kingdom  of  Great Britain and Ireland ,  जिससे  in the early 19th century was in disarray  और  rife  साथ  corruption  .
There are varying accounts  of  the  आविष्कारक   or  inventors of the stamp  .
Before the introduction  of   postage  stamps , mail in the  uk  was paid for by the recipient  ,  a  प्रणाली   कि  was associated  साथ   an  irresolvable problem : the costs of delivering mail were not recoverable by the postal service when  प्राप्तकर्ता  were unable or unwilling  to  pay for delivered items , and senders  था  no incentive to  सीमित  the  क्रमांक  , size , or  वज़न  of  वस्तुएं  sent , whether or  नहीं  they would ultimately be paid for .
The  postage   स्टैम्प  resolved this  समस्या  in a simple and elegant  manner  , with the  अतिरिक्त  benefit of room for an element of  सौंदर्य  to be introduced .
Later related inventions include postal stationery such  as  prepaid-postage  लिफाफे  , post  ताश  , lettercards , aerogrammes and  wrappers   ,   postage  meters , and , more recently , specialty boxes  और  envelopes provided free to the customer by the U.S. postal service for  प्रधानता  or express mailing .
the  postage stamp  afforded  convenience  लिये  both the mailer  और  postal officials , more  efficiently  recovered costs for the postal service , and ultimately resulted in a better ,  तेज़  postal  प्रणाली  .
With the conveniences stamps offered , their use  resulted   in  greatly increased mailings during the 19th and  20th  centuries .
Postage  stamps  during this era were the most popular  रास्ता  of paying for mail , but by the end of the 20th century  यहूद  rapidly being eclipsed by the use  of  metered postage and bulk mailing by businesses . )
the  same  परिणाम  with respect  to  communications by private parties occurred over  the  last decade  of   the   20th   सदी  and the first decade  of  the 21st due to declining cost of long  अलहदा  telephone communications and the development  और  explosive spread  of  electronic mailing  (  ``  e-mail   ''  via  the  Internet ) and bill paying systems had  .
As postage stamps with their engraved imagery began to appear  on   a  widespread basis  ,  historians and collectors began  to  take  सूचना  .
The study of postage stamps and  उनके  use is referred to as philately .
Stamp collecting can be  दोनो  a  शौक   और  a form of historical  पढ़ाई   और  reference , as  government-issued  postage stamps and their mailing systems have always  महरूम  involved with  the  history of nations .
The University of Alabama at Birmingham ( UAB ) is a public  विश्वविद्यालयों   in   बर्मिंघम  in the U.S. state of Alabama .
Developing  इससे  an extension center established in 1936 , the  संस्था  became an autonomous institution in 1969 and is today  एक  of three institutions in the University of Alabama System  .
UAB offers over 140 programs  of  study in 12 academic  विभाजन  leading to bachelor  's   ,  master  's   ,  doctoral , and  पेशेवर  degrees in the social  और   behavioral  sciences , the  उदार   कला  , business ,  शिक्षा   ,  engineering  ,   और   health-related   फ़ील्ड  such as  आयुर्विज्ञान  , dentistry  ,  optometry , nursing  ,  and public health .
The school is highly  प्रसिद्ध  for its medical research  और  natural sciences programs .
the  UAB Health System , one of the largest  अकादमिक  medical centers in the United  राज्य  , is  संबद्ध  with the university .
UAB  हॉस्पिटल  sponsors residency programs in  विभिन्न  medical specialties , including  आतंरिक  medicine  ,  neurology ,  सर्जरी  , radiology , and anesthesiology  .
UAB Hospital is the only ACS verified Level I trauma  बीच  in Alabama ,  as   रेटेड  by the American College of Surgeons Trauma Program .
UAB is the state 's largest employer , with more than 18,000 faculty and staff and over 53,000 jobs at the university and  in  the health system .
an  estimated  10  percent of the  कार्य   in   the  Birmingham-Hoover Metropolitan Area and  1  in  33   कार्य  in the  राज्य  of Alabama are directly or indirectly related to UAB .
The university 's  overall  annual economic impact was  अनुमानित  to be  $  4.6 billion in  2010  .
In the fall of 2012 , the University of Alabama at Birmingham enrolled 17,999 students  इससे   अधिक   than  110 countries  ,  including 1,605 freshmen .
There  हैं  plans to commence with an `` aggressive  ''  growth in enrollment  at  UAB .
The current UAB President is Dr. Ray L.  watts  .
टोफू   ,  also called  सेम  curd ,  is  a food made by  coagulating  soy juice and then pressing the resulting curds  into  soft  श्वेत  blocks .
It is  a  component in  अनेक  East  एशियाई  and Southeast Asian cuisines .
वहीँ  are many different  किस्में  of  टोफू  , including  भैस  tofu and tofu that has been processed in some way .
Tofu has a subtle flavor and can be used in savory and sweet dishes .
It is often seasoned or marinated to suit the dish .
Tofu originated in  प्राचीन  China some 2,000 years ago .
Chinese  लेजेंड  ascribes its invention  to  prince  लियू  An ( Chinese  :  劉安 Liú Ān  ,  179–122 BC ) .
Tofu and its production technique were introduced into  कोरियाई  and then Japan  दौरान  the Nara  काल  .
It spread  into   अन्य  parts of East  एशिया  as  खूब  .
This  स्प्रेड   संभावित  coincided with the spread of Buddhism because  it  is an important source of  प्रोटीन   in  the vegetarian diet  of  East Asian Buddhism .
Li Shizhen in the Ming Dynasty described a method of making  टोफू  in Bencao Gangmu .
Tofu  रै  a low  कैलोरी  count ,  अपेक्षाकृत   विशाल  amounts of protein , and little fat .
It  is   ऊँची  in iron and depending on  the  coagulant used in manufacturing  ,  may  भी  be high in calcium and/or magnesium .
Bubbles (  born  1983  )  is  a   आम  chimpanzee  ,  known for being the one-time pet  of  American recording artist Michael  जैक्सन  , who  खरीदा   the  primate from a Texas research  सुविधा  in the early  1980s  .
The animal was a frequent travel  साथी   to  the singer , whose attachment to the animal led to media mockery  और   ,   among  other factors , to  a  public perception of  जैक्सन   as  an  eccentric  .
During the  ख़राब  World Tour ,  लिये  example ,  जैक्सन  brought Bubbles with him to Japan , where they both drank tea with  the  mayor  of   ओसाका  .
Bubbles was  initially  kept at the Jackson family 's home in  encino  ,  लॉस  Angeles , but was  स्थानांतरित  to Neverland Ranch in 1988 .
There , he slept  in  a crib in Jackson 's  बेडरूम   ,  used  the  singer 's toilet , and ate candy in the Neverland movie theater .
In 2003  the   पब्लिक  learned  कि   ,  like all captive chimpanzees , Bubbles had matured into a large and aggressive adult  chimp  unsuitable as a companion animal .
He was sent to a California animal trainer , where he was reported to have attempted  आत्महत्या   .
When the trainer  shut  down his  आपरेशन   in  2004 , Bubbles was moved  to  the Center  लिये  Great Apes , a  अभयारण्य   in   wauchula  , Florida ,  जहाँ   he   रै  lived since 2005 .
Muse are an English  चट्टान   बैंड  from Teignmouth , Devon , which  formed  in 1994 .
The  बैंड  consists of school friends Matthew  bellamy  ( lead vocals , lead guitar  ,  piano  ,  keyboards  ,  keytar ) , Christopher Wolstenholme (  बास  , vocals , keyboards ,  लय  guitar , harmonica )  और  Dominic Howard ( drums , percussion , synthesisers  ,  sampling )  .
Since the  रिलीज  of their 2006 album Black  छेद  and  खुलासे  , keyboardist and  percussionist  Morgan Nicholls has  performed   सजीव  with the band  .
Muse are known for their  ऊर्जावान  and extravagant live performances and their fusion of many music genres , including space rock , progressive rock , alternative rock , heavy  मेटल  ,  शास्त्रीय  music  और  electronica .
Muse  have  released six  स्टुडियो   एल्बम  : Showbiz ( 1999 ) , Origin of  सममिति  ( 2001 )  ,  Absolution  (  2003 ) , Black Holes and Revelations  (   2006  )  ,  The Resistance (  2009  ) and The 2nd  विधि  ( 2012 )  .
They  have  also issued three live albums , Hullabaloo Soundtrack ( 2002 ) ,  जिससे  is  भी  a compilation of B-sides , Absolution Tour (  2005  )  ,   और  HAARP ( 2008 )  ,  which  दस्तावेज़  the  बैंड  's performances at Wembley Stadium in 2007 .
Black Holes  और   खुलासे  earned the  बैंड  a  पारा  Prize nomination and a third place finish in the NME Albums of the  साल   सूची  for 2006 .
चिंतन  have also won a collection  of  music  पुरस्कार   throughout  their history , including five MTV Europe Music  पुरस्कार  , six Q Awards , eight NME Awards , two Brit  पुरस्कार  —winning `` Best British Live  अधिनियम  ''  twice  , an MTV  वीडियो  Music  पुरस्कार  , four Kerrang !
Awards and an American Music  पुरस्कार   .
They were also nominated for five  ग्रैमी   पुरस्कार  , of which they won  बेहतरीन  Rock Album ,  लिये   उनके   पांचवां   स्टुडियो  album The Resistance ( 2009  )  .
Muse have sold over 15  लाख  albums worldwide .
Bloemfontein  (  ,  ;   डच  for ``  फव्वारा  of flowers  ''  ) is the capital city of the  फ़्री  State  प्रांत  of  दक्षिण  Africa ; and , as the judicial capital of  the  nation , one of South Africa 's  तीन  national capitals – the  अन्य  two being Cape Town  ,  the legislative  पूंजी  , and Pretoria , the administrative capital .
Bloemfontein is popularly  और  poetically known as  ``  the city  of  roses `` , owing to  the  abundance of these flowers and  the  annual rose festival  आयोजित  there .
The city 's  sesotho  name is  mangaung  , meaning `` place of cheetahs `` and it has been included in the Mangaung Local Municipality since 2000 .
Bloemfontein is situated on dry  घासभूमि  at , at  an   ऊँचाई   of  above  समुद्र  level .
The city is home to 369,568  निवासियों  , while the Mangaung Local Municipality has a population of  645,455  .
Where Do We Come  इससे  ?
कया   हैं  We ?
Where  हैं  We Going  ?
One  of  Post-Impressionist Paul Gauguin 's  सबसे  famous  paintings   .
The meaning of life is a philosophical question concerning the significance  of  life or existence in general .
It can also be expressed in different forms , such as ``  क्यों  are we here  ?  `` , `` What is life  सब   परिचय  ? `` , and  ``  What is the purpose  of  existence ? ''
It has  महरूम   the  subject of much  philosophical  , scientific  ,  and theological speculation throughout history .
There have been a large number of proposed answers to  ये  questions from many different  सांस्कृतिक  and ideological backgrounds .
the  meaning of life  is  in the philosophical and religious conceptions of existence  ,  social ties ,  चेतना  , and happiness , and borders  on  many other issues , such as symbolic meaning , ontology , value ,  purpose  , ethics , good and evil , free will , the existence of one or multiple Gods , conceptions of God , the soul ,  और  the  आफ्टरलाइफ  .
Scientific contributions focus primarily  on  describing related empirical  तथ्य   परिचय  the universe , exploring the context and  पैरामीटर्स  concerning the  'how   '  of life  .
Science also  अध्ययन   और  can provide recommendations for the pursuit  of  well-being  और  a related conception  of   नैतिकता  .
An alternative , humanistic approach poses the question `` What is the meaning of my life ? ''
the   मान  of the question pertaining  to  the purpose  of  life may  coincide   साथ   the  achievement of ultimate reality , or  a  feeling of  oneness  , or even a feeling of  sacredness  .
परिवार  Guy creator  सेठ  MacFarlane also provides the voices of Peter  griffin  ,  stewie  Griffin ,  ब्रायन  Griffin , and  ग्लेन  Quagmire .
Family  guy   is   an  American animated  sitcom  that  सुविधाएँ   पाँच   प्रमुख  voice  अभिनेताओं   ,  and  numerous  regular cast and recurring guest  सितारों  .
the  principal voice cast  consists  of show creator Seth  macfarlane  , Alex Borstein  ,  Seth  ग्रीन  , Mila Kunis ( who replaced Lacey  chabert  after the  पहला  season ) and Mike Henry  और  now  ,  the new actor Beau Osborne .
Recurring voice  अभिनेताओं  include Patrick  warburton  , Adam West , John G.  ब्रेनन  , Nicole Sullivan and Jennifer Tilly , and repeat guest stars  शामिल  Phyllis Diller ,  चार्ल्स  Durning , Rush Limbaugh , and Phil LaMarr  .
Many cast  सदस्यों  provide voices for  अनेक  characters .
The voice actors ,  in  portraying  the  various character  personalities   on  the show , draw  प्रेरणा  from celebrities  और  pop culture .
Family  guy  characters have been played  by   अधिक  than one actor  ,   बाद   सदस्यों  of the show left the series  or   था  conflicting obligations .
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in  the  season 5 episode ``  मुश्किल  Legal `` and MacFarlane has also won  an  Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance  और  an Annie Award for Best  आवाज़   एक्टिंग  in an Animated Television Production , though no other  डाल  member has won  an   पुरस्कार   लिये   उनके  work on the series .
1911 Illustration by Edmund Dulac
``   the  Princess and the Pea '' ( ; literal translation : `` The Princess on the Pea ''  )  is a literary  परी  tale  by   hans  Christian Andersen about a  यंग  woman whose royal identity  is  established  by  a test of  उसके  physical  संवेदनशीलता  .
The tale was  पहला  published  साथ  three others by Andersen  in  an inexpensive booklet on 8 May 1835 in Copenhagen by  c.a  . Reitzel .
Andersen had heard the story as a child , and it  संभावित   रै  its source in folk material , possibly originating from  स्वीडन   as  it is  अनजान  in the Danish oral tradition .
Neither ``  the  Princess and the  मटर  '' nor Andersen 's  अन्य  tales of 1835 were well received  by  Danish  आलोचकों  ,  जो  disliked their casual  ,  chatty  स्टाइल   ,  and  उनके  lack of morals .
In 1959 ``  the  Princess and the  मटर  '' was adapted to the musical stage in a production called Once Upon a  गद्दा  starring Carol  burnett  .
German Americans ( ) are citizens of the United States  जो   यहूद  either born in Germany or are of German ancestry .
They  comprise  about 50  लाख  people , making them the  largest  ancestry group  ahead  of Irish Americans  ,  African Americans  और  English Americans .
They comprise about 1/3 of the German diaspora all over the  संसार   .
None of  the  German states had New World colonies .
Not until the 1670s did the first significant  समूह  of German immigrants arrive in the British colonies , settling primarily in New York and Pennsylvania .
Immigration continued  in  very large  संख्याएँ  during the 19th century , with  कुछ  eight  लाख  arrivals from Germany .
They were pulled by the  आकर्षण  of  जमीन  and religious freedom ,  और  pushed out  of  Europe  by  shortages of land and religious or political  दमन  .
Many  arrived  seeking religious or political freedom  ,  others for  आर्थिक  opportunities  वृहद  than those  in  Europe , and others  बस  for the chance to start fresh in  the  New World .
The arrivals before 1850 were mostly farmers who sought out the  सबसे  productive land , where their intensive farming techniques would pay  बंद  .
After 1840  ,  many came to cities , where ``  germania  '' —German-speaking districts—soon  उभरा  .
German Americans  स्थापित  the first kindergartens  in  the United States , introduced the Christmas tree tradition  ,  and originated popular American foods  ऐसे  as  hot   कुत्तो  and  hamburgers  .
जर्मनी  American celebrations are held throughout  the   देश  , one of the  सबसे  well-known  होने  the  german-american  Steuben Parade in New York City , held every third Saturday in September .
There  हैं  also major annual events in Chicago , Cincinnati , Milwaukee , Pittsburgh , St.  लुई  and other cities .
Like many other immigrants that came to the United States ,  an  overwhelming number of people of  जर्मनी  or  आंशिक  German descent have essentially become Americanized .
The Preamble to the  संयुक्त  States Constitution  is  a brief introductory  बयान  of the Constitution 's  आधारभूत  purposes and guiding principles .
It states in general terms , and courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of , the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning and what they hoped  the   संविधान  would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the  संयुक्त  States .
As the phrase , `` we the  लोगों  '' suggests that the new  सरकारी  originates from the  लोगों  of  the  United States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains  to  that vast population concerning the  व्यक्तिगत  rights and equality  among  all people ; this can be seen most broadly in  the  divide between republicanism and social democracy .
The history of the Internet  began  with the  विकास  of electronic computers in the 1950s .
The public was first introduced to the  अवधारणाओं  that would lead to the Internet when  a   संदेश  was sent  over  the ARPANet from computer science Professor  लियोनार्ड   kleinrock  's laboratory  at  University of California , Los Angeles ( UCLA ) , after the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI  )   .
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET , Mark I at NPL  in  the UK ,  cyclades  , Merit Network  ,  Tymnet , and Telenet , were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s using  a  variety of  प्रोटोकॉल  .
The  arpanet  in particular led  to   the  development of protocols for internetworking , in which multiple separate networks could be joined  साथ  into a network of  संजाल   .
In 1982 , the  अंतरजाल  protocol suite (  tcp/ip  ) was standardized , and consequently ,  the  concept of  a  world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks ,  पुकारा   the  Internet , was introduced .
अभिगम  to the ARPANET was expanded  in   1981  when  the  National Science  न्यास  (  nsf   )   विकसित  the Computer Science Network (  csnet  ) and  again   in  1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations .
Commercial  अंतरजाल  service providers ( ISPs )  began  to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s .
the   arpanet  was decommissioned in 1990 .
The Internet was commercialized  in   1995  when NSFNET was decommissioned ,  निकालना   the  last restrictions on the use of the  अंतरजाल  to  carry  commercial traffic .
Since the mid-1990s  ,  the Internet has had  a  revolutionary impact on culture and commerce ,  सहित  the rise of near-instant  संचार  by  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  mail , instant messaging , Voice over Internet Protocol  (  VoIP ) `` phone calls '' , two-way interactive  वीडियो  calls , and the World  चौड़ी  Web with its discussion forums ,  ब्लॉग  ,  सोशल   नेटवर्किंग  , and  ऑनलाइन  shopping  साइट  .
the   शोध  and education community continues to develop  और  use advanced networks such as NSF 's  बहुत  high  गति   रीढ़  Network Service  (   vbns  ) ,  internet2  ,  और  National LambdaRail .
Increasing amounts of data are  transmitted  at higher and  उच्चतर  speeds over fiber optic networks operating at  1-gbit/s  , 10-Gbit/s  ,  or  अधिक  .
The Internet 's takeover over  the  global  संचार   लैंडस्केप   थी  almost instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1  %   of  the  सूचना  flowing through two-way telecommunications networks in  the  year 1993 , already 51 %  by   2000  , and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information  by  2007 .
Today the Internet continues to grow , driven by  कभी  greater amounts of online information , commerce  ,   entertainment  , and social networking .
Southwest Airlines Co. ( ) is a major U.S. airline and the world 's largest  low-cost   वाहक  , headquartered in Dallas ,  टेक्सास  .
It was established in 1967 and adopted its current name in 1971 .
The  एयरलाइन   रै  more than 46,000  कर्मचारी   और   operates   अधिक  than  3,400  flights per day .
As of June  5   ,  2011 , it carries the most domestic passengers of any U.S. airline  .
as  of April 2013 , Southwest Airlines has scheduled service to 84 destinations in 41 states and Puerto Rico .
Southwest Airlines  रै  solely operated  बोइंग  737s , except for a few  सालो  in the 1970s and  1980s  , when  it   संचालित  Boeing  727s  .
As of August 2012 , Southwest  is  the largest  ऑपरेटर  of the  737   विश्वव्यापी  with  over  550 in service , each operating an average of six flights per day .
in  May 2011  ,   the   एयरलाइन  acquired AirTran  एयरवेज़   ,  with integration of the carriers expected  to  be complete by 2014  .
On March 1 ,  2012  , the company  थी  issued a single operating  प्रमाणपत्र  , technically becoming one airline .
रोलिंग  Rock is a 4.6 % abv pale lager launched in 1939 by the Latrobe Brewing  कम्पनी  .
Although founded as a local  बियर  in Western Pennsylvania , it was  marketed   aggressively  and eventually became a national product .
The brand was sold to Anheuser-Busch of  st.   लुई  , Missouri , in mid  2006   ,  which transferred brewing operations to New Jersey .
बेनेडिक्ट  XVI  (  ,  ,  ; born  जोसेफ  Aloisius  ratzinger  on 16 April 1927 ) is Pope emeritus of the Catholic Church  .
he  served as Pope from  2005  to 2013 .
In that position , he was both the leader of the Catholic Church and Sovereign of the Vatican City State .
Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in  a  papal conclave , celebrated his Papal Inauguration  द्रव्यमान   on  24  अप्रैल  2005 , and took possession of his cathedral  ,  the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran  ,   on  7 May 2005  .
Ordained as  a  priest in 1951  in  his native Bavaria , Ratzinger established  खुद  as a highly regarded university theologian by the late 1950s and was appointed a full  प्राध्यापक  in  1958  .
After  a   long   करियर   as  an academic  ,  serving  as  a professor of theology at  अनेक  German  universities—the  last being the University  of  Regensburg ,  जहाँ   he  served as Vice  अध्यक्ष   of  the university in 1976 and 1977—he was  नियुक्त  Archbishop of  म्यूनिख   और  Freising and cardinal by Pope  पॉल  VI in 1977  ,  an unusual  प्रमोशन  for someone with little  लुभावने   अनुभव  .
in  1981 , he settled in Rome when  he  became  prefect  of the Congregation for the  doctrine   of  the Faith  ,  one  of  the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia .
From  2002  until his election as pope  ,  he was also Dean of the College of Cardinals , and  as  such  ,  the primus inter pares  among  the cardinals .
Prior to becoming pope ,  he  was ``  a  major figure on  the  Vatican stage  लिये  a quarter  of  a century '' as `` one of  the  most respected , influential and controversial members of  the  College  of  Cardinals '' ;  he  had an influence ``  दूसरी  to none when it  आए   to  setting  गिरिजाघर   प्राथमिकताएं   और  directions '' as one of Pope John  पॉल  II 's  closest  confidants .
he  was  originally  a liberal theologian , but adopted  रूढ़िवादी  views after 1968 .
उसके  prolific  कृतियाँ  defend traditional Catholic  doctrine  and values .
During his papacy  ,   बेनेडिक्ट  XVI advocated a return to fundamental Christian values to  काउंटर  the increased secularisation of many Western countries .
He views relativism  's   denial  of objective truth , and  the  denial of moral truths in  particular  ,  as  the  सेंट्रल  problem  of  the 21st  सदी  .
He taught  the  importance of both  the  Catholic Church and an  समझना  of  परमेश्वर  's redemptive love .
Pope Benedict also revived  a  number of traditions  सहित  elevating the Tridentine Mass to a  अधिक  prominent position .
He renewed  the  relationship between the Catholic Church and art , viewing the use of beauty as a path to the sacred  ,  promoted the use of Latin , and reintroduced traditional papal  garments  , for which reason he was called `` the pope of aesthetics '' .
He has been described as `` the main intellectual force in the Church ''  चूंकि  the mid-1980s .
Several of Pope  बेनेडिक्ट  's students from his academic career are also prominent churchmen today and confidantes of him  ,  notably Christoph Schönborn .
On 11 February  2013  , Pope Benedict announced his resignation  in  a speech  in   लैटिन   पहले   the  cardinals , citing a `` lack of strength  of   दिमाग  and body  ''  due  to  his advanced age .
His  इस्तीफा  became  प्रभावी  on  28  February 2013 .
He is the first pope to resign since Pope  ग्रेगरी  XII in 1415 , and the first to do so  on  his own initiative since Pope Celestine V in 1294 .
As pope emeritus , Benedict retains the style of His Holiness , and the title of Pope  ,  and will continue to dress in the  papal  colour of white .
he  was  succeeded  by  पोप  Francis on 13 March  2013  , and  he  moved into the newly renovated Mater Ecclesiae  मठ  for his retirement on 2 May 2013..
Pocket stereoscope  साथ  original test image .
Used by military to  जाँचें   stereoscopic  pairs of  aerial  photographs  .
View of Boston ,  c.  1860 ;  an  early stereoscopic card for  देखने  a scene from nature
Kaiser-Panorama  consisted  of  a  multi-station viewing apparatus and sets of stereo slides .
Patented by  A.  Fuhrmann  around   1890  .
Company of ladies  watching  stereoscopic photographs , painting by Jacob Spoel , before 1868 .
A  बहुत  early depiction  of   लोगों  using a stereoscope .
Stereoscopy  (  also called stereoscopics or 3D imaging )  is   a  technique for creating or enhancing  the  illusion of depth in an image by  अर्थात्   of  stereopsis  लिये  binocular vision .
the  word stereoscopy derives from the Greek `` στερεός '' ( stereos )  ,   ``  firm ,  ठोस   ''   +  `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō  )  , `` to  dekh  ''  ,  `` to see '' .
Most stereoscopic methods present two offset images separately to  the  left and right eye  of  the  दर्शक  .
These two-dimensional images are then  संयुक्त  in the  दिमाग   to  give the perception of 3D depth  .
इस  technique is distinguished from 3D  प्रदर्शक  that display an image  in  three full  आयाम  , allowing the  निरीक्षक   to   बढ़ाएँ   सूचना  about  the  3-dimensional objects being  प्रदर्शित  by  सिर   और  eye  आंदोलनों  .
John Adams ( October 30 ,  1735   (  O.S . October 19 , 1735 ) – July 4 ,  1826  ) was the second president of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  (  1797–1801  )  ,  having earlier  परोसा  as the first  वाइस  president of the United States .
An  अमरीकी  Founding Father , he was a statesman , diplomat , and a  अग्रणी  advocate of American  स्वतंत्रता  from Great Britain .
Well  शिक्षित   ,   he  was an Enlightenment political theorist who promoted  republicanism   और  wrote  prolifically  about his often  seminal   विचार  , both in published works and in letters to his wife and key  adviser  Abigail as  खूब   as  to other Founding Fathers .
Adams  आए  to  prominence  in  the  early stages of the American  क्रान्ति  .
a  lawyer and public figure  in   बोस्टन  ,  as  a  प्रतिनिधि  from Massachusetts  to  the Continental Congress  ,  he played a leading role in persuading Congress to declare  स्वतंत्रता  .
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in  drafting  the  घोषणा  of Independence in 1776 ,  और  was its primary  एडवोकेट  in the Congress .
Later ,  as   a  diplomat in Europe , he  helped  negotiate the eventual  सलाम  treaty  साथ  Great Britain , and was responsible  लिये  obtaining  vital  governmental loans from  एम्सटर्डम  bankers .
A  राजनैतिक  theorist  और  historian , Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780  ,  which together with his earlier Thoughts  on  Government , influenced American political thought .
One  of  his greatest roles  थी  as a judge  of  character : in 1775 ,  he  nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief , and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice  of  the United  राज्य  .
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him two terms as George Washington 's vice  अध्यक्ष  and his own election in 1796 as  the  second president  .
दौरान  his one term , he encountered ferocious attacks by the  jeffersonian  Republicans , as  खूब  as the dominant faction in his own Federalist Party  led  by  उसके  bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton .
Adams  हस्ताक्षरित  the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts  ,  and built up the  फौज  and navy especially in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` )  साथ  France  ,  1798–1800  .
the  major accomplishment  of  his presidency was his peaceful resolution of the  विरोध   in  the face of Hamilton 's  विपक्ष  .
in   1800   ,   एडम्स  was defeated for re-election by  थामस  Jefferson  और  retired to Massachusetts .
He later resumed  उसके  friendship with Jefferson .
He  और   उसके  wife , Abigail Adams  ,  founded an  संपन्नता  family line  of   राजनेता  , diplomats  ,  and  इतिहासकारों  now referred  to   as  the Adams  राजनैतिक   परिवार  .
Adams was the father of  जॉन   क्विंसी   एडम्स  , the sixth  अध्यक्ष  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
His  उपलब्धियाँ  have received greater  मान्यता  in modern times , though his contributions were not initially as  मनाये   as  those of other Founders .
एडम्स  was  the  first U.S.  अध्यक्ष  to reside  in   the  building that eventually became known as the White House .
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is  a  denomination  of  United States  करेंसी  .
The first U.S. Secretary  of  the Treasury ( 1789–95 ) , Alexander Hamilton , is  फिलहाल  featured on the obverse of the bill , while the  u.S.  Treasury Building is featured on the reverse  .
( Hamilton is one of two  non-presidents  featured on currently issued U.S. bills .
The other is Benjamin Franklin , on the $  100   विधेयक  .
हैमिल्टन  is one of only four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who was not  born   in   the   महाद्वीपीय  United States , as  he  was from the West Indies .
The others  हैं  : Albert Gallatin ,  स्विट्ज़रलैंड  (  $  500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade , Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91  राजकोष  Note ) ; and Robert Morris ,  इंग्लैण्ड  (  $   1,000  1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10  1878/80  Silver Certificate  )   .
in   जोड   ,  Kamehameha I , appears  on  the  2008   हवाई  state quarter .  )
सब   $  10 bills  जारी  today are Federal Reserve  टीप  .
The  ब्यूरो  of  नक्काशी  and Printing says the  औसत  life of a $ 10 bill  in  circulation is 18 months  पहले  it is replaced  due  to wear .
Approximately 6 % of all US banknotes printed in 2009 were  $  10 bills  .
Ten dollar bills are delivered by Federal Reserve Banks in  पीला  straps .
The source of the face on the  $  10  विधेयक  is John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton  कि  belongs to the portrait collection of New York City Hall .
The  $  10  विधेयक  is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait faces to  the   बाएँ  ( the  $  100,000  विधेयक   प्रदर्शित   a  portrait of  वुडरो  Wilson facing to the left , but was used only for intra-government transactions ) .
A rider on a Yamaha  waverunner  XL performing a high-speed  फेरे  .
A jetboat  is  a boat propelled by  a  jet  of  water ejected from the back of  the  craft .
Unlike a  powerboat  or  motorboat  that uses a propeller in the water below or behind the boat , a jetboat draws the  जल  from under the  नाव  into a pump inside  the  boat  ,  then expels it through a nozzle at the stern .
Jetboats were originally designed by Sir William Hamilton ( who developed a waterjet  in  1954 ) for  आपरेशन   in  the fast-flowing and shallow rivers of  नई   जीलैंड   ,  specifically to  overcome  the problem  of   propellers  striking  रॉक्स   in   ऐसे   waters  .
पिछला   कोशिशें  at waterjet  नोदन   था   बहुत  short lifetimes ,  generally  due to the inefficient design of the units and the fact that they offered few advantages  over  conventional  propellers  .
Unlike these previous waterjet developments , such as  campini   's  and the  hanley  Hydrojet  ,  Hamilton had  a  specific  need   लिये   a   नोदन  system to operate  in   very-shallow  water , and  the   waterjet   proved  to  be  the ideal solution  .
From this , the popularity  of  the jet unit and jetboat increased rapidly .
Through further  developments   ,  it was found  the  waterjet offered  अनेक  other  लाभ  over propellers for a wide range of  पोत  types , and as such ,  waterjets  are used widely today for many high-speed vessels , including  यात्री  ferries , rescue craft , patrol boats and  offshore  supply vessels .
Jetboats are  अत्यधिक  maneuverable , and many  can  , from full speed , be reversed and brought to a stop within little more than their  अपना  length ,  in  a maneuver  ज्ञात  as a `` crash stop '' .
The well  ज्ञात  Hamilton  फेरे  or `` jet spin '' is a  high-speed  maneuvre where the boat 's engine throttle is  काटें   ,  the steering is turned sharply  और  the  throttle  opened again ,  causing   the  boat to spin quickly around with a large  स्प्रे  of water .
वहीँ  is  no  engineering limit  to   the   आकार  of  jetboats  , though the validity of their  उपयोग  depends a lot on the type of application .
Classic prop-drives are generally more efficient and  किफायती  at low speeds , up to about , but as boat speed increases beyond this , the extra hull resistance generated by struts , rudders , shafts  (  etc .  )   अर्थात्  waterjets are more  कुशल   in  the  20-50  knot range ( up to ) .
Also , in situations with very large propellers turning  at   slow  speeds ( such  as  tug  नौकाएँ  ) ,  the  equivalent size  waterjet  would be  too  big to be  व्यावहारिक  .
लिये  these reasons , the vast majority of waterjet  इकाई  are installed  in   high-speed  vessels and  in  particular situations  जहाँ   उथले  draught , maneuverability , and load flexibility are main concerns .
the  biggest jet-driven  बरतन  are found in military use or the high-speed passenger/car ferry industry .
South Africa 's  s  (  लगभग  long  )  are  the  biggest  jet-propelled  vessels  so   दूर  .
Even these German-built vessels are capable of performing `` crash stops '' .
Uveitis is broadly  पारिभाषित   as  inflammation  of  the uvea .
The uvea  consists  of the middle ,  pigmented  , vascular structures of  the  eye and includes the iris , ciliary body , and choroid .
Uveitis  requires  an urgent referral and  thorough   परिक्षा  by an ophthalmologist or optometrist along with urgent treatment  to  control the inflammation .
eric   ``  E . ''
Murphy  is  a fictional  अक्षर  on  the  comedy-drama television series Entourage .
He is  निभाई  by Kevin Connolly .
The  जगमगाता  is a 1980 psychological horror film produced and directed by  स्टेनली   kubrick  , co-written with  उपन्यासकार  Diane Johnson , and starring Jack Nicholson , Shelley  duvall  , Scatman  crothers   ,  and Danny Lloyd .
the  film is  आधारित  on  the   स्टीफन   किंग  novel The Shining .
A writer ,  जोकर  Torrance  ,   takes  a job  as  an off-season caretaker at an isolated hotel .
His  यंग  son  possesses  psychic abilities  और   is  able to  देखिए  things from the past and future  ,  such as the ghosts who inhabit the hotel .
Soon  बाद  settling  in  , the family is  फंस  in  the  hotel by a snowstorm ,  और  Jack gradually becomes influenced by a supernatural presence  ;  he descends into madness and attempts to murder his wife  और  son .
Unlike previous Kubrick films  ,  which developed an audience gradually by building on  word-of-mouth   ,  The Shining was released as a mass-market film , opening  at  first in  बस  two cities  on  Memorial Day  ,  then nationwide a month later .
Although initial response to the film  थी  mixed , later  नाजुक  assessment  थी   अधिक  favorable and it is now  viewed  as a  क्लासिक  of the horror  विधा  .
Film director  मार्टिन  Scorsese , writing in The Daily Beast , ranked it as one  of  the 11 scariest horror movies of all time .
Film critics , film  विद्यार्थी  , and  kubrick  's producer  ,  Jan Harlan  ,  have remarked  on  the  विशाल  influence the film has had  on   लोकप्रिय   संस्कृति   .
The initial  यूरोपीय  release of The Shining was  25  minutes shorter than  the  American version ,  हासिल   by  removing most  of  the scenes  लेने   प्लेस  outside the  environs  of the hotel .
Patio Cola Bottle
Patio Diet  कोला  was a brand of diet soda introduced by Pepsi in  1963  .
It  थी  created in response to Diet Rite Cola , which was  the  first diet cola on the  मार्केट  .
Fitness  प्रवर्तक  Debbie Drake  थी  Patio Diet Cola 's spokesperson .
In 1964 , Patio  released   नारंगी  , grape  ,  and root beer flavors  .
इस  flavor line was not meant  to  compete with brands  जैसे   नारंगी   crush  , but rather fill out  the   लकीर  .
Patio sodas were  उपलब्धियाँ  in the cold-bottle market : grocery and mom-and-pop stores .
विज्ञापन  for Patio was comparatively scarce ; at  the  time ,  bottlers  were regionally franchised , and  सम्बन्धित   विज्ञापन  was necessarily local .
In 1964 , Patio diet  कोला  became Diet Pepsi .
The newly branded diet soda  थी  advertised alongside Pepsi with the tagline `` Pepsi either way '' , which replaced the  स्लोगन  `` Dances  साथ  flavor ''  .
the  short life span of Patio Diet cola makes it a great  जोड   लिये  bottle collectors .
Most of the remaining Patio  लकीर  of flavors were phased out  by   the  early 1970s , while  a   few  survived until the mid 70s
Infrastructure is basic physical and organizational structures needed  लिये  the operation of a society or enterprise , or the services  और   सुविधाएं  necessary for an economy to function .
It  can  be generally  पारिभाषित  as  the   नियत  of interconnected structural elements that  provide  framework supporting an entire structure of development  .
It is an important  पद  for judging a country or region 's development .
The  पद  typically refers to the technical structures that support  a   समाज   ,  such as roads , bridges ,  जल  supply , sewers  ,   विद्युत  grids ,  दूरसंचार   ,  and so forth , and can be defined  as  `` the physical  components  of interrelated systems providing commodities and services essential to enable , sustain ,  or  enhance societal living conditions . ''
Viewed functionally , infrastructure  facilitates  the  उत्पादन  of goods and services , and also the distribution of  समाप्त  products to markets , as well as basic social  सेवाएं  such as schools and hospitals ;  लिये  example , roads enable the transport of raw  सामग्री   to  a factory .
In military  parlance  , the term  refers  to the buildings  और  permanent installations necessary for the support , redeployment , and operation of military forces .
To make it  सरल  , infrastructure is anything  कि  is needed everyday  ,  an everyday  मद   .
A graphical representation of the  आदर्श  human karyotype
Mitochondrial DNA .
Human genetic variation is the genetic differences both within and among populations .
There may be multiple variants of any given gene  in  the  इंसान  population (  जीनों  ) ,  अग्रणी  to polymorphism .
अनेक  genes are not  बहुरूपी  , meaning that only a single allele is present  in  the population  :  the gene is then said to  be  fixed .
No two humans are genetically identical .
Even monozygotic  जुड़वा  , who develop from one zygote , have infrequent genetic differences due  to  mutations occurring during development  और  gene copy number variation .
Differences  between  individuals , even  closely  related  individuals  , are the key  to   तकनीकों  such  as  genetic fingerprinting .
Alleles occur at different  बारंबारता  in different human populations  ,  with populations  कि   हैं   अधिक  geographically and ancestrally remote tending  to  differ  अधिक  .
Causes  of  differences  between  individuals include the exchange  of   जीनों  during meiosis and various mutational events .
There are at least two reasons why genetic  विभिन्नता  exists  between   populations  .
Natural selection may confer an  अनुकूली  advantage to individuals in a specific environment if an allele  provides  a competitive advantage .
Alleles under  चयन   हैं   संभावित   to   occur  only in those  भौगोलिक  regions where they confer  an  advantage .
The second main  कारण  of genetic variation is due to the high degree  of  neutrality of most mutations .
सबसे   mutations  do  नहीं  appear  to  have any selective effect  एक  way or the other  on  the organism .
The main  कारण  is genetic drift , this  is   the  effect of  यादृच्छिक   परिवर्तन  in the  जीन  pool .
In humans ,  संस्थापक  effect and past small population size ( increasing the likelihood  of   जेनेटिक  drift ) may have had  an  important influence in neutral differences between populations .
the  theory that humans recently migrated out of Africa supports this .
the   पढ़ाई  of human  जेनेटिक  variation has both  विकासवादी   significance  and medical applications  .
It can help  वैज्ञानिकों  understand  प्राचीन   इंसान  population migrations  as  well  as  how  अलग  human groups are biologically related to one  another  .
For  आयुर्विज्ञान  , study of human  जेनेटिक  variation  may  be important because some  disease-causing  alleles  occur  more often in  लोगों  from specific  भौगोलिक  regions .
New findings show that  प्रत्येक   इंसान  has on average 60  नई  mutations compared  to  their  अभिभावक  .
अलावा  from mutations , many  जीनों  that may have  aided   इंसानो   in   प्राचीन  times plague  इंसानो  today .
लिये   उदाहरण   ,  it is  suspected  that genes  कि  allow  इंसानो   to  more efficiently process  खाना  are those that make people  susceptible  to obesity and diabetes  आज  .
Tea  पार्टी  protesters on the West Lawn of  the  U.S. Capitol and the  नेशनल   मॉल  at the Taxpayer March on Washington on September  12   ,  2009 .
The Tea Party movement  is  an American political movement that advocates strict adherence  to  the United States Constitution  ,  reducing U.S. government spending and taxes , and reduction of the  u.S.  national debt and  संघीय  budget deficit .
The  गति  has been called partly conservative , partly libertarian  ,   और   partly  populist .
The movement  रै  sponsored protests and supported political  उम्मीदवार  since 2009 .
The name of  the  movement is derived  इससे  the  बोस्टन   चाय   पार्टी  of 1773 , an iconic event in  अमरीकी  history .
Anti-tax protesters  in  the United  राज्य  have often referred to  the  original Boston Tea Party for inspiration .
References  to  the  बोस्टन  Tea Party were part of Tax Day protests held throughout the 1990s and earlier .
by  2001 , a  कस्टम  had developed among  कुछ  conservative activists of mailing tea bags to  विधायक  and other officials as  a  symbolic act  .
The currencies of  प्यूर्टो  Rico closely  follow  the  ऐतिहासिक  development of Puerto Rico .
As a colony  of  Spain and  the   संयुक्त  States , Puerto Rico was granted the  उपयोग  of both  विदेशी  and provincial  मुद्राएँ  .
Following  the  Spanish colonization  in  1502 , Puerto Rico became an important port , with its own supply of gold .
However  ,   as  the mineral reserves  भागा   खाली  within  the   सदी  , the archipelago  's  economy suffered .
The Spanish  क्राउन   जारी  the Situado  mexicano  , which meant that a  semi-regular   शिपमेंट  of  सुनहरा  from  the  Viceroyalty  of  New Spain would  be   भेजा  to  the   द्वीप  , as  a  way  to  provide economic support .
Between 1636 and 1637 , Philip IV of Spain imposed a  कर  which had to  be   सशुल्क  using a revenue stamp .
प्रेरित  by this ,  प्यूर्टो  Rico began producing banknotes in 1766 , becoming the first colony to print  8-  real  banknotes  in the  स्पेनी  Empire  और  which  in   the  Spanish government 's approval of subsequent issues .
the  situado was discontinued during the  19th   सदी   ,   बनाना   an  economic crisis  ,  as a result of  मैक्सिको  gaining its independence from Spain .
Salvador Meléndez Bruna , the colonial governor in office , ordered  the  issue of provincial banknotes , creating the Puerto  rican  peso .
However , printing of these banknotes  ceased  after 1815  .
During  the  following decades  ,  foreign coins became the  फैली  currency  .
In the 1860s and  1870s  , banknotes reemerged .
On February 1 , 1890 , the Banco  español  de Puerto Rico was inaugurated and  began   issuing   banknotes  .
The bank designed  चार  series and placed three in circulation under  स्पेनी   नियम  .
In 1895 , a Royal Decree ordered the production  of   प्रांतीय  peso coins .
On August 13 ,  1898   ,  the Spanish-American War ended with Spain  ceding   प्यूर्टो   रीको  to the  संयुक्त  States .
the  Banco Español de Puerto Rico was renamed  बैंको  of Porto Rico and issued  बिल्स  equivalent to the United States dollar ,  बनाना  the Puerto Rican  डालर  .
In 1902 , the First National Bank of Porto Rico  जारी  banknotes in  a  parallel manner .
Two more series  यहूद  issued until 1913 .
बाद  Puerto Rico 's economy and monetary system was fully integrated  into  the United States  '  economic  और  monetary system , the Puerto  rican  dollars were  redeemed  for  those  issued by the  संयुक्त   राज्य  Treasury .
the  peso and dollar have been followed by other contemporary issues , including commemorative banknotes  ,  private currency ,  और  a  क्वार्टर  coin  designed   साथ  Fort San Felipe del  morro  in the face  .
Pepsi ( stylized  in  lowercase as pepsi , formerly stylized in  अपरकेस  as PEPSI ) is a carbonated soft drink that is  उत्पादित  and  manufactured  by PepsiCo  .
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as  ब्रैड  's Drink , it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August  28   ,   1898  , then  to  Pepsi in 1961 .
The Book  of  Ezekiel  is  the third  of  the Latter Prophets in  the  Hebrew  बाइबल  , following  the  books of Isaiah and Jeremiah and  preceding  the  किताब  of the Twelve .
( The  अनुक्रम  is somewhat different in the Christian Old Testament  )   .
It derives its name  इससे  , and records  the  visions of  ,   the  6th century BC priest and prophet Ezekiel .
according  to the book  ,  the prophet  ,  exiled in  बाबुल  , experienced a series of seven visions  दौरान   the  22 years from 593 to 571  bc  ,  a  period  जिससे  spans the final destruction of Jerusalem in 586 .
The visions  ,  and the book , are structured around three themes  :   (  1 ) judgment on Israel  (  chapters 1-24  )  ; (  2  ) judgment on the nations ( chapters 25-32 ) ; and future blessings for Israel ( chapters 33-48 ) .
नई  Orleans  (   or  ,  locally  or ;  )   is  a major United  राज्य  port and the largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana .
The population of the city was 343,829  as  of  the  2010 U.S. Census .
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New  orleans–metairie–kenner  Metropolitan Statistical  क्षेत्रफल  ) had  a   जनसांख्यिकी  of  1,167,764  in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States .
The New  orleans–metairie–bogalusa   संयुक्त  Statistical  क्षेत्रफल  , a larger trading  क्षेत्रफल  , had a 2010 population of 1,214,932  .
The city is named after Orléans  ,   a   नगर  located on the Loire River in Centre , France , and is well known for  इसके  distinct French Creole architecture , as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage .
New Orleans  is   भी  famous for its cuisine , music ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz ) , and its annual  जश्न  and festivals , most notably Mardi Gras .
The city  is  often referred to  as  the `` most unique '' in America .
New  ऑरलियन्स   is  located  in  southeastern Louisiana ,  straddling  the Mississippi River .
The city and Orleans Parish (  )  are .
the  city and parish are bounded by the parishes  of  St. Tammany  to  the north , St. Bernard  to  the east  ,  Plaquemines to  the  south and Jefferson to the south and west .
Lake Pontchartrain  ,  part of  जिससे  is included in  the  city limits  ,  lies to  the  north and  झील   borgne  lies to the east .
The National Birth Control League was a birth control organization in the United States .
It was founded in  कूच  1915 by  मरियम  Dennett , Clara Gruening Stillman  और  Jessie Ashley .
Its  प्रमुख  purpose  थी  to  overturn   the  laws which banned contraceptives  इससे  the U.S. mails  .
Campaigns were mounted in New York , but in 1919  the   लीग  was disbanded and reformed into the Voluntary  parenthood  League .
Cancer  ,  known medically  as   a  malignant neoplasm ,  is  a broad group of various diseases  ,   सब  involving unregulated cell growth .
In cancer , cells divide and grow  uncontrollably  , forming malignant tumors , and  invade  nearby parts of the  देह  .
The cancer may also spread to  अधिक  distant parts  of  the  देह  through the lymphatic system or  bloodstream   .
Not all tumors are cancerous .
benign  tumors do not grow  uncontrollably  ,  do  not invade neighboring tissues , and do not  स्प्रेड   throughout  the body .
There are  over  200 different known cancers  कि  afflict humans .
Determining what causes cancer  is  complex .
Many things are known to increase  the  risk of cancer , including tobacco use , certain infections , radiation ,  कमी  of physical activity , obesity , and environmental pollutants .
These can directly damage genes or combine with existing genetic faults within cells to  कारण  the disease .
Approximately five  to   टेन  percent  of  cancers are entirely hereditary .
Cancer  can  be detected  in  a number of  तरीके  , including the presence of certain signs and symptoms , screening tests , or medical imaging .
एकबार  a  संभावित  cancer is detected it  is  diagnosed  by  microscopic examination of a tissue sample .
Cancer is usually treated with  कीमोथेरेपी  , radiation  चिकित्सा  and  सर्जरी  .
The chances of surviving the disease vary greatly by the type and location of the cancer  और  the extent of  बीमारी  at the start of treatment .
While cancer can affect  लोगों  of all  आयु  , and a few  प्रकार  of cancer  हैं   अधिक  common in children , the risk of developing cancer generally increases with  आयु  .
In 2007  ,  cancer  caused  about  13  % of all human deaths worldwide  (   7.9  million  )  .
Rates are rising  as  more people live to an  बूढ़ा   आयु  and  as  mass lifestyle changes occur in the  विकासशील  world .
Spring  स्की  touring on  hardangervidda   ,  Norway
Skiing  is   a  recreational activity and competitive sport in which the participant attaches long runners or skis to  बूट  or shoes on the feet and uses them to travel  on  top of snow .
Aside from recreation and  प्रतियोगिता  , skiing has been used  लिये   सैन्य  purposes and even travelling in areas  कि  experience heavy snowfall .
Many types of competitive skiing  कार्यक्रम  are recognized  by  the International  ओलम्पिक  Committee  ,  and the International Ski Federation .
John Maynard Keynes ,  1st  Baron Keynes  ,  CB , FBA  (  ; 5 June 1883  –  21 April 1946 ) was a British economist whose  विचार  have  fundamentally  affected the  सिद्धान्त  and practice  of   आधुनिक  macroeconomics , and informed the economic policies of governments  .
he  built on and greatly refined earlier work  on   the  causes of  कारोबार  cycles , and is widely considered to  be  one  of  the founders of modern macroeconomics and  the  most  influential  economist of the 20th century .
उसके  ideas are the basis for the school of thought  ज्ञात   as  Keynesian economics , as well  as  its  विभिन्न  offshoots  .
In many ways  ,  subsequent developments in  20th   सदी  economics can be viewed as either building on  keynes   '  ideas or reacting against them .
In  the  1930s , Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic thinking  ,  overturning the older ideas of  neoclassical  economics  कि   आयोजित  that free markets would  ,  in the short  to  medium term ,  automatically  provide full employment , as long as workers were flexible  in  their  मजदूरी  demands  .
Keynes instead  argued   कि  aggregate demand determined the overall level of economic activity ,  और   कि  inadequate  कुल  demand could lead to  prolonged  periods of  ऊँची  unemployment .
he  advocated the use of fiscal and monetary  उपायों   to   mitigate  the adverse  प्रभाव   of   आर्थिक  recessions and depressions .
following  the  outbreak   of  the Second World War  ,   keynes  's ideas concerning economic policy were adopted by leading Western economies .
In 1942 , Keynes was awarded a hereditary peerage  as  Baron Keynes of Tilton in the County of Sussex  .
Keynes died in  1946  , but during  the  1950s and 1960s the  कामयाबी  of Keynesian  अर्थशास्त्र  resulted in almost all capitalist governments  adopting   इसके  policy  सुझाव  .
Keynes 's influence waned in  the  1970s , partly as  a  result of problems that  began  to afflict the  anglo-american   economies  from the start of the decade , and partly because of critiques  इससे   मिल्टन  Friedman and other  अर्थशास्त्रियों  who were pessimistic about the ability of governments to regulate the business cycle with fiscal policy .
However , the advent of  the  global financial crisis in 2007 caused  a  resurgence  in  Keynesian thought .
Keynesian economics provided  the   सैद्धांतिक  underpinning for economic policies undertaken in response to the crisis by Presidents George  W.  Bush and Barack  ओबामा  of  the  United States ,  प्रधान  Minister  गॉर्डन  Brown  of  the United  किंगडम   ,  and other heads of  सरकारें  .
In  1999  , Time magazine included  keynes  in  उनके  list of the 100 most important and influential people of  the  20th century , commenting that  :  `` His  कट्टरपंथी  idea that governments should  खर्च  money they do  n't  have  may   have  saved capitalism . ''
In addition to being an economist  ,  Keynes was also a  सिविल  servant , a  निदेशक  of the British Eugenics Society , a director of  the   बैंको  of England , a patron  of  the  कला   और  an art collector  ,  a part of the Bloomsbury Group of intellectuals , an advisor to several charitable trusts ,  a  writer , a philosopher , a  निजी   निवेशकों  , and a  किसान  .
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by Jekuthiel Sofer emulated the  1675  Ten Commandments at the  एम्सटर्डम  Esnoga synagogue .
The Ten Commandments  ,   भी  known as the Decalogue  ,  are  a  set of biblical  कानून  relating to ethics and worship , which play a fundamental role in Judaism , Islam and Christianity  .
They include instructions  to  worship only God , to  रखना   the  sabbath holy and prohibitions against idolatry , blasphemy ,  हत्या  , theft  ,  deception and adultery .
Different groups follow slightly different traditions for interpreting and  क्रमांकन   उन्हें  .
the  Ten Commandments  appear  twice  in  the Hebrew Bible  ,  in  the  books of Exodus and  deuteronomy  .
According to the story  in  Exodus  ,  God inscribed them on  दो   स्टोन   टैबलेट  , which he gave  to  Moses on Mount  sinai  .
Modern  स्कॉलरशिप   रै   मिला  likely influences in Hittite and  mesopotamian  laws  और   treaties  ,  लकिन  is divided over exactly when the Ten Commandments  यहूद  written and who  लिखा   उन्हें  .
The discography of the English alternative rock band The Smiths consists of four  स्टुडियो  albums , one extended play  (  EP  )  ,  एक  live album , ten compilation albums  ,  twenty singles  ,  one video  एल्बम  and fourteen music videos  on  the  अशिष्ट  Trade , Sire and  wea   रिकार्ड  labels .
The band was formed in 1982 in Manchester by  vocalist  Morrissey , guitarist  जॉनी  Marr , bass player  एंडी  Rourke and drummer Mike Joyce .
Despite being championed by BBC Radio 1  डिस्क  jockey John Peel , the band 's debut single , `` Hand  in  Glove `` ( May 1983 ) ,  विफल  to chart .
Its follow-up , `` This Charming Man `` (  अक्तूबर  1983 ) ,  मिले  with critical acclaim and  पहुँचे  number twenty-five on the UK Singles Chart .
The Smiths ' cult status was followed by mainstream success in 1984 ,  as  they reached  क्रमांक  twelve in the UK  साथ  the ``  कया  Difference Does It Make  ?  `` single and  पहुँचे  number two on the UK Albums Chart with their debut  एल्बम  ,  the  Smiths ( 1984 ) .
उनके  next three singles all reached the top twenty of  the  charts in the UK , helping  to  consolidate their previous chart success .
The next studio album , Meat Is  हत्या   (   1985  ) , reached the top  of  the British charts ; however , the  तभी  single to be released from the album , `` That Joke Is  n't  Funny  anymore  `` ( 1985 ) , failed  to  break the UK Top  40  .
Returning to form  ,   the  Smiths ' next six singles all reached the higher than number  तीस  in  the  UK and  उनके   तीसरा  album , The Queen Is  मुर्दे  ( 1986 ) , reached number  दो  in the UK  .
despite  the band 's chart  कामयाबी  , Marr  बाएँ  the group in August 1987 due to a strained relationship with Morrissey .
Failing  to  find a replacement , The Smiths disbanded by the time  उनके  final studio album ,  strangeways  , Here We Come , was released in  सितंबर  that year  .
Strangeways ,  यहाँ  We Come reached number two in the UK and became the band 's highest-charting  रिलीज  in  the  United States when it reached number fifty-five  on  the  बिलबोर्ड  200 .
In early 1992 , WEA acquired  the  entire back catalogue of The Smiths  और   उत्पादित  two compilations – Best ... I and ... Best II – the first of which reached  the  top of the UK Albums  चार्ट   .
wea  released  दो  further singles compilations  in  1995  और  2001 , with a further compilation , The Sound of The Smiths , released  in  November 2008 .
Gone  साथ  the Wind is a novel written by  मार्गरेट   मिशेल  ,  पहला  published in 1936 .
it  is often placed in  the  literary sub-genre of the historical romance novel .
However , it has  महरूम   argued  the novel  is  a `` near  मिस  '' and does not contain all of  the  elements of the romance genre ,  बनाना  it simply a historical novel .
The story is set  in  Clayton County , Georgia , and  अटलांटा  during the  अमरीकी  Civil War and Reconstruction  .
It depicts the experiences of Scarlett O'Hara , the spoiled daughter of a well-to-do plantation owner ,  जो  must use every means  at  her disposal  to  come out of the poverty  वो  finds  herself  in after Sherman  's  ``  कूच  to the Sea '' .
Margaret Mitchell began writing Gone with the Wind in  1926  to pass the time while recovering from an auto-crash injury that  refused  to  चंगा  .
in  April 1935 , Harold Latham of Macmillan , an editor who was  looking  for  नई   fiction  , read what she had written and saw that it could be a best-seller .
बाद  Latham agreed to  प्रकाशित  the book ,  मिशेल  worked for another six  महीने   checking  the historical  सन्दर्भ  , and rewrote the opening  अध्याय  several  टाइम्स   .
मिशेल   और  her  husband  John Marsh  ,  a copy editor  by  trade , edited the final  संस्करण  of the novel .
Mitchell wrote the  किताब  's final moments first , and  तब  wrote the events that led up to  it  .
As to what became of her  प्रेमियों   ,  Rhett and Scarlett , after the novel ended ,  मिशेल  did not know  ,   और  said  ,  `` For all I know , Rhett may  have  found someone  else  who  थी   कम  difficult .  ''
Mitchell received the  पुलित्जर   पुरस्कार  for  fiction  for  the  book in 1937 .
The  किताब   थी  adapted into a  1939  American film .
Gone with the Wind is  the  only novel  by  Mitchell published during her lifetime .
Endodontics ( from the Greek endo `` inside '' ; and odons `` tooth '' ) is one  of  the  दंत   specialties  recognized by the  अमरीकी  Dental Association , Royal College of Dentists of Canada  ,  and  royal  Australasian College of Dental Surgeons , and deals with the tooth pulp and the tissues surrounding the  रूट  of a tooth .
endodontists  perform a variety  of  procedures including endodontic therapy ( commonly  ज्ञात  as `` root canal therapy  ''  ) , endodontic retreatment  ,  surgery ,  treating  cracked  दांत  , and treating dental  आघात  .
Root  कनाल  therapy is  एक  of the most common procedures .
If the pulp  (  containing nerves , arterioles  ,  venules  ,  lymphatic tissue , and  तंतुमय  tissue )  becomes  diseased or injured ,  endodontic  treatment is required to save the tooth .
Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS  )  is a point-to-point serial protocol  कि  moves data to and from  कंप्यूटर  storage devices such as hard drives and tape drives .
SAS replaces the older Parallel SCSI ( pronounced ``  scuzzy  '' )  बस  technology  कि   पहला  appeared in  the  mid-1980s  .
SAS , like its predecessor , uses  the  standard SCSI  कमांड  set  .
SAS  offers  backward compatibility with second-generation SATA drives  .
SATA 3 Gbit/s drives may be  कनेक्ट  to  sas  backplanes  ,  but SAS  ड्राइव   can   नहीं   कनेक्ट  to SATA backplanes .
the  T10 technical  कमेटी   of  the International Committee for Information Technology  मानकों  ( INCITS ) develops  और   maintains  the SAS protocol  ;  the  scsi  Trade Association ( SCSITA ) promotes the technology .
Part of the constitutional provision  as  it appeared in  1787
औकात  as  a  natural-born citizen of  the  United  राज्य  is one  of  the  पात्रता  requirements established in the United States Constitution for election to the office  of  President or Vice President .
This  आवश्यकता  was intended to protect the nation  इससे  foreign influence .
The Constitution does not define the phrase natural-born citizen , and various  राय   have  been offered over time regarding  इसके  precise meaning .
A 2011 Congressional Research Service  रपट   stated
the  natural-born-citizen clause has been  उल्लेखित  in passing in  अनेक  decisions of  the   संयुक्त  States Supreme Court and lower courts dealing with  the   सवाल  of eligibility for citizenship  by  birth , but the  परम्  Court has never directly addressed the question of a specific presidential  or  vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as  a   natural-born  citizen  .
Kurtis Eugene `` Kurt '' Warner ( born June 22 , 1971 )  is  a former  अमरीकी   फ़ुटबॉल  player .
He  निभाई  quarterback for three National Football  लीग  ( NFL ) teams : the  st.  Louis Rams ,  the  New York Giants , and the  एरिज़ोना  Cardinals .
He  थी   originally   हस्ताक्षरित  by  the  Green Bay Packers  as   an  undrafted  फ़्री  agent in 1994 after playing college  फ़ुटबॉल  at Northern  आयोवा  .
Warner would go on to be considered  the  best undrafted player  of  all time , following a 12-year career regarded as one  of  the greatest stories  in  NFL history .
Warner  पहला  attained  स्टारडम  while playing  लिये  the  st.   लुई  Rams from 1998 to 2003 , where he won  दो  NFL MVP  पुरस्कार  in 1999 and 2001 as well as the Super  कटोरी   mvp  award in Super Bowl XXXIV .
He led  the  2008 Arizona Cardinals to Super Bowl XLIII ( the  मताधिकार  's first Super Bowl berth )  ,   और  owns the  तीन  highest  single-game   गुजर  yardage totals in Super Bowl history  .
Warner currently holds the seventh-highest career passer rating of all-time ( 93.7  )   ,  and the third-highest career completion percentage in NFL history with  65.5  % .
In 13 career playoff games ,  warner  ranks first all-time  in  completion percentage ( 66.5 %  )   ,  yards per  attempt  ( 8.55 ) , and second  in   passer  rating (  102.8  ) .
He also holds the highest completion  प्रतिशत   लिये   a   सिंगल  game during the regular season , at 92.3 percent  (  24/26 )  ,  on September 20 , 2009 , against the  jacksonville  Jaguars .
He announced his retirement on  जनवरी  29 ,  2010.  < ref name='CNN 2010-01-29 ' >
Janet Kay Ruthven Hagan ( ;  born  May 26 , 1953 ) is  the  junior United States  सीनेटर  from North Carolina  ,  in office since January 2009 .
Previously she  परोसा  in  the  North Carolina Senate from 1999  to  2009  .
She  is  a member  of   the  Democratic Party  और  is  viewed  as a  मॉडरेट  member of her party .
When Hagan  पराजित  Republican incumbent  एलिज़ाबेथ  Dole in the 2008  संयुक्त  States Senate election ,  वो  became the first woman to defeat an incumbent woman in a Senate election .
The  heisman  Memorial Trophy Award  (  usually known  colloquially  as the Heisman Trophy or  the  Heisman )  ,  is  awarded  annually to  the   खिलाड़ी  deemed the  सबसे  outstanding player in collegiate football .
It was created in 1935 as the Downtown Athletic Club trophy and renamed in 1936 following the death of the  क्लबों   's  athletic director , John  heisman  (  पूर्व  Brown  विश्वविद्यालयों  and University of Pennsylvania player ; head football coach at  oberlin  College , Auburn University  ,  Clemson University , Rice University , and the University of Pennsylvania ; and  फ़ुटबॉल  , basketball , and baseball head coach and athletic director at Georgia Tech )  .
The award is presented by the  heisman  Trophy Trust in early  दिसम्बर  before the postseason bowl games  .
It is  the  oldest of  अनेक  overall  पुरस्कार   in  college football , including  the  Maxwell Award  ,  Walter Camp Award ,  और  the AP Player of the Year .
The Heisman and  the  AP Player of the Year are the only awards to honor the most outstanding player , while the Maxwell Award and Walter Camp Award recognize  the  best player , and the Archie Griffin Award recognizes the most valuable player  .
The United  राष्ट्र  Command  (  UNC ) is  the  unified command structure for the  बहुराष्ट्रीय  military forces  supporting  the Republic of Korea ( South Korea or ROK ) during  और  after the  कोरियाई  War .
After troops of  the   लोकतांत्रिक   लोगों   's  Republic of Korea ( North Korea  or  DPRK )  invaded  South  कोरियाई  on June 25  ,  1950 , the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 82 calling on North Korea to  cease  hostilities and  withdraw  to the 38th parallel .
On June 27 , 1950 , it adopted Resolution 83 , recommending that members of the United Nations provide assistance to the Republic of Korea `` to  repel   the   हथियारबंद  attack  और  to  restore  international peace and security  to   the  area '' .
Security Council  रेज़ोल्यूशन  84  ,  adopted on July 7 , 1950 , recommended that members  providing  military forces and  अन्य   सहायता   to  South Korea  ``  make such  शक्तियां   और  other assistance available  to  a unified command under the United States  of  America  ''   .
Although the resolutions suggested the forces under the UNC were  ``  United Nations forces '' , and United Nations  itself   could  be considered a belligerent  ,  in practice  the  United Nations  exercised  no control over  the  combat forces , which were controlled by the  संयुक्त  States .
Most observers concluded that  the  forces  अंतर्गत  the  unc   यहूद   नहीं  in  विधि  United  राष्ट्र  troops  ,  and the  अधिनियमों  of the UNC were  नहीं   the  acts of the United Nations  .
The UNC can be  regarded  as an alliance of national armies , operating  अंतर्गत  the collective right of  self-defense   .
On August  29  ,  1950  , the British  राष्ट्रमंडल  's 27th  infantry  Brigade arrived at Busan to join the UNC ,  जिससे  until then included only ROK and U.S. forces .
The 27th Brigade  स्थानांतरित  into  the  Naktong River  लकीर   वेस्ट  of  daegu   .
Troop units from other countries  of  the UN followed in rapid succession ; Australia , Belgian United Nations Command  ,  Canada , Colombia , Ethiopia , France , Greece , Luxembourg , the  नीदरलैंड्स   ,  New  जीलैंड  , the Philippines , Thailand and Turkey .
The  संघ   of  South  अफ़्रीकी   provided  air units which fought alongside the  एयर   शक्तियां   of  other  सदस्य  nations .
डेनमार्क  ,  इण्डिया  ,  नार्वे  ,  और  Sweden provided medical units  .
Italy provided a hospital  ,  even though it  थी  not a UN member .
The United  राष्ट्र  Command and the Chinese-North  कोरियाई  Command signed the Korean Armistice Agreement on 27 July 1953 ,  समाप्ति  the  भारी   लड़   .
the  armistice agreement  स्थापित  the Military Armistice Commission ( MAC ) , consisting of  प्रतिनिधि  of the two signatories  ,  to supervise  the  implementation of the armistice terms .
the  North Korean-Chinese MAC  रै  been  replaced  by Panmumjon Representatives under exclusive North Korean management  .
Regular meetings have been stopped , although duty  अधिकारियों  of Joint Security Area , commonly known as the Truce Village of Panmunjom , from  प्रत्येक  side  मिलें  regularly  .
Lincoln Heights  is  an  अमरीकी  family drama television series about Eddie Sutton  ,  a  मिशन   विस्टा  police  अधिकारी  who moves  उसके  family back to his old neighborhood , Lincoln Heights ,  to  start  a   नई   जीवन  and to help out his old neighborhood  .
It is a dangerous place to raise  a  family ,  और  through the many  ट्रायल  the family  goes  through  ,  they soon learn that  settling  in is not as easy as  it   seems  .
While Officer  सटन   struggles  to cope with every day life  as  a street cop in  लॉस  Angeles , his  बच्चे  try to fit in at their new  स्कूलों  and with their  नई  neighbors .
The show premiered January 8 , 2007 on  the  ABC Family network with 13 episodes  ordered  for the first season .
it  was  स्वीकृत  for  a  second  ऋतु   ,   जिससे  premiered  सितंबर  4  ,  2007  .
Vanessa Hudgens ' song ,  कह  OK  था   महरूम  used in a commercial to promote the second season  .
To promote  the   तीसरा  season ,  वे   दिखाया  clips of Cassie  और  Charles 's  संबंध  to the song , Crush by the  अमरीकी  Idol 's seventh season runner-up , David Archuleta  .
To promote season  4  , they 're using the song , Avalanche by Marie Digby .
The show 's theme song was written and  performed  by  bassist  Stanley Clarke and singer-songwriter Blaire Reinhard .
On  जनवरी  29 , 2010 , ABC Family announced the cancellation of the series after four seasons .
A Christian denomination is an  identifiable  religious body under a  आम   नाम  , structure , and doctrine within  christianity  .
In  the  Orthodox tradition  ,   चर्च   हैं  divided often  साथ   जातीय  and linguistic  लाइनों  , into separate churches and traditions .
Technically ,  विभाजन   between  one group and another are defined by doctrine and church authority .
Issues such as the nature of Jesus , the authority of apostolic succession  ,  eschatology ,  और  papal primacy separate one denomination from another  .
The  रोमन  Catholic Church is the largest denomination with  over  1.1 billion members , over  हाफ  of all Christians worldwide ,  बनाना  it  the  largest  denomination  for  कोई  religion worldwide  (  although the church does not view itself as a denomination , but as  the  original  pre-denominational  church  )   .
Protestant denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of Christians worldwide , and  साथ  the  catholics  , Protestants  ,  Anglicans , and other closely  सम्बन्धित   denominations  comprise Western Christianity .
The Eastern Orthodox  गिरिजाघर  , Oriental Orthodox Churches and the Assyrian  गिरिजाघर   of   the  East are considered Eastern  ईसाई  denominations .
Western Christian  denominations  prevail in Western Europe  और  its  पूर्व  colonies .
Eastern Christian  denominations  are represented mostly in  पूर्वी  Europe , the Middle  ईस्ट  and North Africa .
Christians have various  doctrines  about the Church , the body of  वफादार   कि  they believe was established by Jesus Christ , and how  the  divine  गिरिजाघर   corresponds  to Christian denominations .
Both the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider each of themselves solely to faithfully represent the One Holy Catholic and Apostolic  गिरिजाघर  to the exclusion of the other .
protestants  separated from the Catholic Church because of theologies  और   practices  that they considered to  be   in  violation of their interpretation .
Generally  ,  members of  the  various denominations acknowledge each other as Christians , at least to the  extent   कि   वे  have mutually  पहचाना   baptisms  and  acknowledge  historically  परंपरागत  views including  the  Divinity of Jesus and doctrines of sin and salvation  ,  even though doctrinal and ecclesiological obstacles hinder  पूरा  communion between churches .
चूंकि  the reforms  surrounding  Vatican  ii  , the Catholic Church has referred to Protestant  समुदायों  as `` denominations ''  ,  while  reserving  the term `` church '' for apostolic  चर्च  , including the Eastern Orthodox ( see  subsistit  in and branch  सिद्धान्त  ) .
There are however  कुछ   non-denominational  Christians who  do  not follow  कोई   particular  branch .
the  panda (  ailuropoda  melanoleuca , lit .
`` black and  श्वेत  cat-foot '' ) , also known  as  the giant panda to distinguish  it   इससे  the unrelated red  पांडा   ,  is a  भालू   देशी  to central-western and south western  चीन   .
It is easily recognized by the large  ,  distinctive black patches  around  its eyes , over  the  ears ,  और   आरपार  its round body .
Though it belongs to the order Carnivora ,  the  panda 's diet is 99 % bamboo .
Pandas in the wild will occasionally eat other grasses , wild tubers , or even meat in  the  form  of  birds , rodents or  carrion  .
In captivity , they may receive  मधु  , eggs , fish , yams , shrub leaves , oranges , or bananas along with specially prepared food .
The giant  पांडा  lives in a  few   पहाड़  ranges in central China , mainly  in  Sichuan province , but also  in  the  shaanxi  and Gansu provinces .
as  a result of farming , deforestation  और  other development , the panda has been driven  आउट  of the lowland areas where it once  जिया  .
the  panda is a  संरक्षण  reliant endangered species .
A 2007 report shows 239 pandas living in captivity inside China  और  another 27 outside the country .
Wild population estimates vary  ;   एक  estimate shows that there are about 1,590 individuals  जीना   in  the wild , while a  2006  study  via   डीएनए  analysis estimated that this figure could be as high  as  2,000 to  3,000  .
Some reports  भी  show  कि  the number of pandas  in  the wild is on  the  rise .
however  , the IUCN does not  मानना  there is enough certainty yet to reclassify the species from  endangered  to  vulnerable  .
जबकि  the dragon  रै  often served  as   चीन  's national emblem , internationally the panda  appears  at least  as   commonly  .
as  such  ,  it is becoming widely used within China in  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  contexts , for example the five  fuwa   mascots  of the Beijing  ओलंपिक  .
The Kite  धावक   is  a 2007 American drama film  निर्देशित  by Marc Forster based on the novel of the same name by Khaled Hosseini .
It tells  the  story of  आमिर  ,  a  well-to-do boy from the  वज़ीर  Akbar  खान  district  of   काबुल  , who is tormented by the guilt  of  abandoning his  dost   हसन  , the son of his father 's Hazara servant .
The story  is  set  विरूद्ध  a backdrop of  उग्र  events , from the  पतन   of   the   साम्राज्य   in  Afghanistan through  the  Soviet military intervention ,  the  mass exodus  of  Afghan refugees to Pakistan and the United States , and the Taliban regime .
हालांकि  most of the film is set in Afghanistan , these parts  यहूद  mostly shot in Kashgar , China , due  to  the dangers of filming in Afghanistan at the  समय   .
The majority  of  the film 's dialogue is in Dari , with  the  remainder spoken in English .
The child actors are native speakers ,  लकिन  several adult actors had  to  learn Dari .
Filming wrapped up on  दिसम्बर  21 , 2006 ,  और  the film was  अपेक्षित   to   be  released on November 2 , 2007 .
However , after concern  लिये  the safety of  the  young actors in the  फिल्मी  due to fears of violent reprisals to the sexual nature  of  some scenes in which they appear , its  रिलीज  date was pushed back six weeks to December 14 , 2007 .
The Kite Runner was  released  on  dvd  on  कूच  25 , 2008  .
A HD  dvd  release was announced for the same date  ,  but was canceled following  the  format 's demise .
The film was  मनोनीत   लिये  the Golden Globe Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 2007 .
The film 's score by Alberto Iglesias was  मनोनीत   लिये  Best Original Score at the Golden Globes and the Academy Awards  .
the  legality of cannabis varies from country to country .
Possession  of  cannabis is illegal  in  most countries and  रै   महरूम  since the beginning of widespread cannabis  निषेध  in  the  late 1930s .
However , many countries  have  decriminalized the possession  of  small quantities of cannabis  ,  particularly in  उत्तर  America ,  दक्षिण  America and Europe .
Furthermore , possession is  विधिक  or effectively legal in the Netherlands , North  कोरियाई  and  होता  be in the U.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it were not for federal law  ,   जिससे  governs persons in all  राज्य  .
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number of  देशों  , including Canada  ,  the Czech Republic  और   इसराईल   .
While federal law  in  the United States  bans  all sale and possession of cannabis ,  प्रवर्तन  varies  widely  at the  राज्य  level  और  some states have established medicinal marijuana  कार्यक्रम  in that contradict federal law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington )  have  repealed  उनके  laws prohibiting the recreational use of  कैनबिस  and replaced  उन्हें  with a regulatory regime  ,  also contrary to federal statute  .
Some countries have  कानून  that are not  as  vigorously prosecuted as others but  ,  apart from  the   देशों  that offer access  to  medical  मारिजुआना  ,  सबसे  countries have various  दंड  ranging from lenient to very severe .
Some  infractions   हैं   लिया  more seriously in some countries than others in regard to  the  cultivation , use , possession  or  transfer of cannabis  लिये  recreational  उपयोग   .
A  few  jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small  quantities  of cannabis ,  बनाना  it punishable by confiscation and a fine ,  बल्कि  than imprisonment .
Some jurisdictions/ drug  न्यायालयों  use mandatory  उपचार  programs  लिये  young or  बारंबार  users  ,  with freedom  इससे  narcotic drugs as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit  कैनबिस  use  लिये  medicinal  उद्देश्य  .
वहीँ  are also changes in  a  more  प्रतिबंधक  direction as in Canada .
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly common in  अनेक  countries  और  have resulted in jail sentences  और  people losing their jobs .
However , simple possession can carry long jail sentences in  कुछ  countries  ,   विशेषकर  in parts of East Asia and  southeast   एशिया  where the sale of cannabis may  सीसे  to a sentence of life  in   थाना  or  भी  execution  .
Loxahatchee is a community located in Palm Beach County , Florida , United States .
It  is  located in the  क्षेत्रों   उत्तर  of Wellington and west and  उत्तरपश्चिम  of Royal Palm Beach , Florida and approximately west of West  ताड़  Beach .
Loxahatchee is also  the  name of the  पोस्ट  Office that  serves  this area , which is under  the  zip code of  33470  .
the  name  loxahatchee   अर्थात्   ``  turtle  नदी  . ''
Loxahatchee is located within the Indian Trails Improvement District and the Loxahatchee Groves Water Control  ज़िला  .
शेर  Country Safari , a drive-through safari park , is located in Loxahatchee .
In 2006 , the state of Florida approved incorporation of  भाग  of Loxahatchee as the  कस्बा  of Loxahatchee Groves to  become   the  38th municipality in  ताड़  Beach County .
the   प्रमुख   कारण  for incorporating was to better protect the area from encroaching growth  और   to   बचाना  the rural character of the neighborhood .
शायद  the most rural area within a close proximity to West  ताड़  Beach  ,  with lot sizes range  इससे  1-20  एकड़   .
Along  साथ  The Acreage  ,  it is notable for loose land restrictions and the  देशी  and exotic animal presence is quite notable .
Seminole Ridge High School serves  the   क्षेत्रफल  .
The Canadian Citizenship  परीक्षण  is a  परीक्षण   ,  administered by Citizenship  और  Immigration  कनाडा   (  CIC ) , that is required for  सब   आवेदकों   लिये  Canadian citizenship who are aged between 18  और   54   और  who meet  the   मौलिक  requirements  लिये  citizenship .
The test is available in both French and English , the official languages  of  Canada .
Renaissance  क्रूज़   ,  originally  संस्थापित   in  1989 owned by  fearnley  & Eger Rederi in Oslo - Norway , later purchased by Edward Rudner ( founder of Alamo Car Rental  )  as  the  company faltered during  the  Gulf War .
They operated  year-round   क्रूज  itineraries  to  the Mediterranean , the Greek Isles , Tahiti and the  दक्षिण  Pacific , Northern Europe and Scandinavia  .
The company ceased  परिचालन   on  25 September 2001 and accommodated up to 220,000  अतिथि  in 2000 .
While the company  था  been in poor financial health for quite  कुछ  time , the economic decline resulting from the  सितंबर  11th  आतंकवादी  attacks are  credited   साथ  the demise of this  क्रूज  line  .
The fleet is  सूचीबद्ध  under List of  क्रूज  ships .
It  थी   headquartered  in Fort  lauderdale  , Florida .
Epithelium is  एक   of  the four basic types of  एनिमल  tissue , along with connective tissue , muscle  ऊतक  and  बेचैन  tissue .
Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of structures  throughout  the  देह  , and also form many glands .
कृत्यों  of epithelial cells include secretion , selective absorption  ,  protection , transcellular transport and detection of sensation .
in  Greek `` ἐπί '' ( ``  epi  '' ) means `` on '' or `` upon '' , and `` θηλή '' ( ``  thēlē  '' ) means `` nipple '' .
Epithelial layers are  avascular  , so they  जरूर   प्राप्त  nourishment via diffusion of substances from  the  underlying  संयोजी  tissue ,  through  the  तहखाने  membrane .
epithelia  can also be  व्यवस्थित  into clusters  of  cells  कि  function as exocrine and endocrine glands .
Kent E.  hovind  ( born January 15  ,   1953   )  is an American  यंग   धरती  creationist .
Hovind has spoken  on  creation science and has aimed to  मनाना  listeners to  अस्वीकृत   theories  of evolution  ,  geophysics ,  और  cosmology in favor  of  his interpretation of the  उत्पत्ति  creation narrative from the Bible .
Hovind 's views are contradicted by scientific evidence  और  some of his ideas  have   भी   महरूम   criticized  by young  धरती  creationist organizations such as Answers in Genesis .
Hovind established  the  Creation Science Evangelism in 1991  ,  and frequently spoke  on  young Earth creationism at seminars at private schools and churches , debates , and on radio and television broadcasts  .
Since January  2007   ,   hovind   रै  been serving a ten-year prison sentence  बाद   होने  convicted of 58 federal counts , including 12 tax offenses  ,   एक  count of obstructing federal agents , and 45 counts of  structuring  cash transactions .
he  is  incarcerated  at the Federal  correctional   संस्था  at  बर्लिन  , New Hampshire .
Bride with Bindi decorated forehead
A bindi (  ,  from Sanskrit bindu , meaning `` a drop , small particle ,  बिन्दु  '' ) , or a pottu/bottu ( in Tamil , Telugu , and Malayalam ) is a forehead decoration worn in South  एशिया  ( particularly India , Bangladesh , Nepal , Sri Lanka and Mauritius )  और  Southeast Asia .
Traditionally it is  a  bright  बिन्दु   of  red color applied in the center of  the   माथे   बंद  to the eyebrows  ,  but  it  can also consist of a sign or  टुकड़ा  of jewelry worn  at  this location .
The New  यॉर्क  gubernatorial election  of  2010  थी  held on Tuesday , November 2  ,  2010 , to elect the Governor of  नई  York , to  serve   a   four-year   पद  that began in  जनवरी  2011 .
Incumbent Democratic Governor  दाउद  Paterson , elected as Lieutenant Governor in 2006  as  the running mate of former Governor Eliot Spitzer ,  chose  not to run  लिये  a full-term .
On November 2 , New York Attorney  सामान्य  and  डेमोक्रेट   एंड्रयू   cuomo  defeated Republican Carl Paladino .
Green Party candidate Howie Hawkins received  over   57,000  votes ,  allowing  the New York Green Party to be listed on the ballot for the next 4 years .
the   प्रमुख  cast  of  Dragon Ball at the end of the manga .
The Dragon Ball  manga  and anime series features an extensive cast of  वर्ण   निर्मित  by Akira Toriyama .
The  श्रेणी  takes place  in  a fictional universe , the same as Toriyama  's  previous series Dr. Slump , and  फ़ॉलो  the  adventures   of  martial  कलाकार  Son Goku from childhood  to  adulthood  as   he  searches for the  सात  spheres  ज्ञात  as the  ड्रैगन  Balls , used to  summon  a wish-granting dragon .
During the  कोर्स  of the story , he encounters allies such as Bulma  ,   yamcha  , Kuririn  और  Trunks ,  विरोधियों  such as Tenshinhan , Piccolo and Vegeta  ,  and enemies such  as  Freeza and  कोशिका  .
While many of the  वर्ण  are humans with  superhuman  strength and/or  अलौकिक  abilities , the  डाल  also includes anthropomorphic  पशु  and later ,  extraterrestrial  lifeforms .
the  series also  शामिल  depictions of the afterlife , with  अनेक  characters being gods that govern  the  universe .
250px
The Comanche  हैं  a Plains Indian tribe  जिनकी  historic territory ,  ज्ञात   as  Comancheria , consisted  of  present day  पूर्वी  New Mexico , southern Colorado  ,  northeastern Arizona  ,  southern  कान्सास  , all  of  Oklahoma , and most of northwest Texas .
The Comanche people are enrolled  in  the federally recognized Comanche  स्वदेश  , in  ओक्लाहोमा  .
Historically , the Comanches were  hunter-gatherers  with a horse culture  .
There may have been as many as 45,000 Comanches  in  the late  18th  century .
आज  , the Comanche  स्वदेश  Comanche  जनजातीय  enrollment  संख्याएँ  15,191 with approximately 7,763 members  residing  in the Lawton – Fort Sill and surrounding  क्षेत्रों  of  दक्षिणपश्चिम  Oklahoma  .
the   comanche  Nation Homecoming Powwow is held annually in Walters  ,  Oklahoma  in  mid-July .
the   comanche  spoke the Comanche language , a Numic language of the Uto-Aztecan family ,  sometimes  classified  as  a  shoshone  dialect ; however  ,  only about 1 % of Comanches  बोलो  it today  .
ethan  Frome is a novel published in  1911  by the Pulitzer Prize  -winning  American author Edith Wharton .
It  is  set  in  the  fictitious   कस्बा  of Starkfield , Massachusetts .
The novel was adapted into a film  ,   ethan   frome  , in  1993  .
Times Square  studios  ( TSS ) is an American television studio located  in  the Times Square  पड़ोस  of the Manhattan borough of New York City , New  यॉर्क  .
The studio is best  ज्ञात   as  the production home of ABC News ' Good Morning America (  जीएमए  ) , a morning news  और   बात   कार्यक्रम  and segments for GMA on ABC News Now .
The Las Vegas Strip World of Coca-Cola  संग्रहालय  in 2003
Coca-Cola  is   a  carbonated  नरम  drink  बेची  in stores ,  रेस्तरां  , and vending machines in every country except Cuba and  उत्तर  Korea .
it  is produced  by  The Coca-Cola  कम्पनी  of Atlanta  ,  Georgia ,  और   is  often referred to simply as  कोक  ( a registered  ट्रेडमार्क  of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27 , 1944  )  .
Originally intended as a patent medicine when  it  was  invented  in the late 19th century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola was bought out by  बिजनेसमैन  Asa Griggs Candler , whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the  संसार  soft-drink market throughout  the   20th   सदी  .
the  company  produces  concentrate ,  जिससे  is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world .
The bottlers , who  थाम  territorially exclusive contracts with  the  company , produce finished  उत्पाद  in cans and bottles from  the  concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners  .
The bottlers then sell ,  वितरित   और  merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores  और  vending machines .
ऐसे  bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises , which  is  the largest single  coca-cola   bottler  in North America and western Europe  .
The Coca-Cola Company also  बिकता  concentrate for soda fountains to major restaurants and  खाना  service distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company has , on occasion , introduced other cola drinks under the Coke brand  नाम  .
The most common of these  is  Diet  कोक   ,  with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola ,  आहार  Coke Caffeine-Free ,  coca-cola  Cherry ,  coca-cola  Zero , Coca-Cola Vanilla , and  खास  versions  साथ  lemon , lime or  कॉफी  .
आधारित  on  interbrand  's best global brand 2011 , Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand .
Types of  bar-lines
In musical notation , a bar ( or  माप  ) is a  खण्ड  of time defined by  a   दिए  number  of  beats  ,  each of  जिससे  are  आबंटित  a particular note value .
Dividing  म्यूज़िक  into bars provides regular reference points to pin point locations within a  टुकड़ा   of  music .
it  also makes  लिखा  music easier  to  follow , since  प्रत्येक   बार  of staff  प्रतीकों   can  be read  और   निभाई  as a batch .
Typically , a piece consists of  अनेक  bars  of  the same length , and in modern musical notation the number of beats in each bar is specified at  the  beginning of the score by the top number of a time  हस्ताक्षर   (  such as 3/4 ) , while the bottom number indicates the note value of the beat ( the  ताल  has a quarter note value in the  3/4  example )  .
the  word bar is more common in British English , and  the  word measure is more  आम   in  American English  ,  although musicians generally understand both usages  .
In American English , although the words bar and  माप  are often used interchangeably the correct use of  the  word 'bar ' refers only to the  लंबवत  line itself , while the word 'measure ' refers to  the   बीट्स  contained between bars .
In  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  usage  ,  it is equally correct to speak of bar  संख्याएँ  and measure numbers ,  e.g  . ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm  .   9–16’  .
साथ   the  same lines , it is wise to reserve  the   abbreviated  form ‘bb .
3–4’ etc  .  for beats only  ;  bars should be referred to by  नाम   in  full .
The first  metrically  complete measure within a piece of  म्यूज़िक   is   पुकारा  ‘bar 1’ or ‘m . 1’ .
When the piece begins with an anacrusis (  an  incomplete measure at the head of a piece of  म्यूज़िक  ) , ‘bar  1’  or ‘m . 1’  is  the following measure .
The 19.9 MW  gemasolar  solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage and  can   सप्लाई  power 24 hours a day .
Solar energy ,  रौशन  light  और  heat from  the  sun , has  महरूम  harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of  ever-evolving  technologies .
Solar  उर्जा  technologies include solar  हीटिंग  ,  सौर  photovoltaics , solar thermal  विद्युत  , solar architecture and  कृत्रिम   photosynthesis  , which can make considerable  योगदान  to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces .
Solar technologies are broadly  characterized  as  either  passive solar or active solar depending on the way  वे   कैप्चर   ,   बदलें  and  वितरित  solar energy .
क्रियाशील  solar  तकनीकों   शामिल  the  उपयोग   of   photovoltaic  panels and solar  थर्मल  collectors to harness the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting  a  building  to   the  Sun , selecting materials  साथ  favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties , and  डिजाइनिंग  spaces that  naturally  circulate air .
in   2011  , the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of  सस्ती  ,  inexhaustible  and clean solar energy  technologies  will have huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase  countries’  energy security through reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible and  ज़्यादातर  import-independent resource , enhance sustainability ,  reduce  pollution ,  निम्नतर  the costs  of  mitigating  जलवायु  change , and keep fossil fuel prices  निम्नतर   than  otherwise .
These advantages are global .
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment  चाहिए  be considered learning investments  ;  they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
प्राथमिक   परवाह  may be provided in community health centres .
Primary care is the health care given  by  a health care  प्रदाता  .
Typically this provider acts as the  प्रिंसिपल  point of consultation for patients within a  स्वास्थ्य  care system and coordinates  अन्य  specialists that the  रोगी   may   need   .
Such a professional can be a  प्राथमिक  care physician , such  as  a  सामान्य  practitioner or family  चिकित्सक  , or depending on  the   मोहल्ले  ,  स्वास्थ्य  system organization , and patient  's  discretion , they may see a pharmacist , a physician assistant , a nurse practitioner , a nurse ( such as in the United  किंगडम  )  ,  a  नैदानिक  officer ( such as in parts  of  Africa ) ,  or  an Ayurvedic or other traditional  आयुर्विज्ञान  professional (  ऐसे  as  in  parts of Asia ) .
Depending on the nature  of  the health condition  ,   मरीजों  may then  be   referred  for  द्वितीयक  or tertiary  परवाह  .
`` Ocean Avenue '' is  a   सोंग  recorded  by  American pop punk group Yellowcard .
It  थी   released  in February 2004 as  the  second single from  समंदर  Avenue and the third track .
It  is  known for bringing them into  the  mainstream , as it received  numerous  spins on MTV and increasing radio airplay .
समंदर  Avenue is a  गली   in  Jacksonville  ,  Florida , the  बैंड  's stomping grounds near  उनके  high school  ,  Douglas Anderson School of the Arts ,  और  another street mentioned  in  the song ,  चेरी  Street  .
the   नाम  of Ocean Avenue in Jacksonville is actually Beach  boulevard  .
They left their original  आधार  behind  जब  they moved to Los Angeles .
The song was  प्रदर्शित  on the Much Music compilation album Big Shiny Tunes 9 .
A psychiatrist  is   a   चिकित्सक  who specializes in psychiatry .
a  psychiatrist specializes  in  the treatment of mental disorders .
Psychiatrists are authorized  to  prescribe medicine  ,  conduct physical examinations ,  अनुक्रम  and interpret  प्रयोगशाला  tests , use psychotherapy and may order brain imaging  अध्ययन  such  as   computed  tomography ( CT/CAT Scan ) , magnetic resonance imaging  (   mri   )  ,  और  positron emission tomography  (  PET )  स्कैनिंग  .
Within the framework of  the  World Health Organization 's ( WHO ) definition of health  as  a state of complete physical , mental and social well-being  ,  and not  merely   the  absence  of  disease or infirmity ,  reproductive  health , or sexual health/hygiene , addresses the reproductive processes  ,   कृत्यों  and system at  सब  stages of life .
Reproductive  स्वास्थ्य  , therefore ,  implies   कि  people  हैं  able  to  have a responsible  ,   संतोषजनक  and safer sex life and that they have the capability to reproduce  और  the  स्वतंत्रता  to  decide  if  ,  when and how often to do so .
One interpretation of this implies that men  और   महिलाओं  ought to  be  informed  of  and to have  अभिगम  to safe , effective , affordable  और  acceptable methods of birth control ; also access  to  appropriate health care services of sexual , reproductive medicine and implementation of health education programs to stress the importance  of  women to go  सकुशल   through  pregnancy and  प्रसव  could provide  युगल  with the  बेहतरीन  chance of having  a  healthy infant .
On the other hand individuals do  फेस  inequalities  in  reproductive health services  .
Inequalities vary based on socioeconomic status  ,   शिक्षा  level ,  आयु  , ethnicity  ,  religion , and resources available in their environment  .
it  is  संभावित  for example , that low  आय  individuals lack the resources for appropriate  स्वास्थ्य  services and the knowledge to know what  is  appropriate for maintaining reproductive health .
According to the WHO , `` Reproductive  और  sexual ill-health accounts for 20 % of  the  global burden of ill-health  लिये  women , and 14 % for men . ''
reproductive  health is a part of Sexual and reproductive health  और  rights .
This is a list  of  episodes for the  डिज़्नी  Channel original series  the  Suite Life  on  Deck , which aired  लिये   तीन  seasons on Disney Channel  इससे  September 26 , 2008  to  May  6  , 2011 .
Core 2  is   a  brand encompassing a range of Intel 's consumer  64-bit  x86-64  single-  , dual- , and quad-core  microprocessors  based on the Core  microarchitecture   .
the  single- and dual-core models are single- die  ,  whereas the quad-core  मॉडल  comprise two dies  ,  each containing two cores  ,  packaged in  a  multi-chip module .
The introduction of Core 2 relegated  the  Pentium brand to the mid-range market ,  और  reunified laptop and  डेस्कटॉप   cpu  lines ,  जिससे   previously  had  महरूम   विभाजित   into  the Pentium 4 ,  pentium  D  ,  and Pentium M brands .
The  कोर   2   ब्रांड  was  introduced   on  27 July 2006 , comprising the Solo ( single-core ) , Duo ( dual-core )  ,  Quad ( quad-core ) , and in 2007 , the Extreme ( dual- or  quad-core  CPUs for enthusiasts  )  subbrands  .
Intel Core  2  processors with  vpro  technology ( designed  लिये  businesses ) include the dual-core and quad-core branches  .
The  सुपर   कटोरी  is the annual championship game of the National Football League  (  NFL ) ,  the   उच्चतम  level  of  professional  अमरीकी   फ़ुटबॉल  in the United States ,  culminating  a season that begins in the late summer of the previous calendar year .
The Super Bowl uses Roman numerals to identify each  खेल  ,  बल्कि  than the year in which it is held .
For example  ,   सुपर  Bowl I was played on January 15 , 1967 , following the  1966  regular season , while Super Bowl  xlvii  was played  on  February 3 ,  2013  , following the 2012 season .
The  खेल  was  निर्मित  as part of a merger agreement between  the  NFL and  इसके  then-rival league , the American Football League (  afl  ) .
It was agreed that the two leagues ' champion teams would play in an AFL–NFL World Championship Game until the  विलय  was to officially begin  in  1970  .
After the merger , each  लीग  was redesignated as a  ``  conference `` , and the game was  तब   निभाई  between the conference champions .
Currently , the National Football Conference ( NFC ) leads the series  साथ  25  विन्स  to 22 wins for the American Football  सम्मेलन  (  afc  ) .
The day on which the Super  कटोरी  is played , now considered by some a  de  facto American national holiday ,  is   पुकारा  `` Super Bowl Sunday `` .
It  is   the  second-largest  दिन  for U.S.  खाना  consumption  ,  after Thanksgiving Day  .
in  addition , the Super Bowl has frequently been the most watched American  टेलीविज़न  broadcast  of  the year  .
Super Bowl XLV  ,   निभाई  in  2011  , became the most-watched American television program in history , drawing  an   औसत   दर्शक  of 111  लाख   दर्शक  and taking over the spot held by the previous year 's  सुपर   कटोरी  , which itself had  लिया  over  the   #  1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the  फाइनल  episode of M*A*S*H .
The Super Bowl is also among the  सबसे  watched sporting events  in   the   संसार  , almost all being North  अमरीकी  audiences , and  is  second to  संघ  football ’s UEFA Champions League final as the  सबसे   देखी  annual  sporting  event  विश्वव्यापी   .
Because of its high viewership  ,  commercial  airtime  during the Super Bowl broadcast  is   the  most expensive of the  साल  .
due  to the high cost of investing in  विज्ञापन  on the Super  कटोरी  , companies regularly develop their most  महंगी  advertisements for this  ब्रॉडकास्ट  .
As a  परिणाम   ,  watching and  discussing   the   ब्रॉडकास्ट  's commercials has  become   a   significant  aspect of the  इवेंट   .
In addition , many popular singers and musicians have performed during the event  's   pre-game  and halftime  ceremonies  because of the exposure .
फिओना  is a feminine given  नाम  .
The name Fiona was invented  ,  and first used , by the Scottish poet James Macpherson  (  1736–96 ) ,  लेखक  of the  ossian  poems  ,  which he claimed  यहूद  translations from ancient Gaelic sources  (  sources , when challenged , he never produced ) .
The name was subsequently used  as  a pseudonym by  विलियम   शार्प   (  1855–1905  )  ,  जो  authored several romantic works under  the  name  ``   फिओना  Macleod  ''  .
The name  रै  since  become  popular in  इंग्लैण्ड  , Scotland  और   आयरलैंड   .
The name is considered  to  be a Latinised form of the Gaelic word fionn , meaning `` white '' , `` fair  ''  .
The name  फिओना  is also sometimes used as an Anglicisation  of  the  irish-language  name  fíona   ,  although  ये  names are otherwise unrelated (  as  Fíona is  निकला  from an element  अर्थ  ``  बेल  '' ) .
There is also a modern tendency to equate  the   प्रामाणिक   स्कॉटिश  Gaelic feminine  नाम   fionnghal  with Fiona .
The name  फिओना  is rising in  लोकप्रियता  particularly in German  -speaking  countries  .
Fiona was the 49th  सबसे   लोकप्रिय  name for baby girls born  in  2008 in Germany .
Fiona was tied for third place in the ranking of most popular names for  baby  girls born  in   the  tiny principality of Liechtenstein in 2008 .
The name was the 347th most  लोकप्रिय  name  लिये   लड़कियों  born in the United  राज्य  in  2008   ,  where it has ranked among the  शीर्ष  1,000 most popular  names  for girls since 1990 and among the top 500 since 1999 .
The  नाम  Fiona has been particularly popular for  लड़कियों  of Asian  or  Pacific  islander  descent in New York City , where Fiona ranked  as  the ninth most popular name for girls  इससे  those groups  in   2007  .
Many languages  हैं   प्रयुक्त  , or historically have been used  in  the United States .
The most  commonly  used  भाषा   is  English .
वहीँ  are  भी  many  भाषाएं  indigenous  to   उत्तर  America or to U.S. states or holdings in the  प्रशांत   प्रदेश  .
भाषाएं  brought  to  the  देश  by  colonists   or  immigrants from  यूरोपीय   ,  Asia , or other  भाग  of the world make up a large portion of the languages currently used ; several languages , including creoles and  चिह्न  languages , have also  विकसित   in  the  संयुक्त  States .
Approximately 337  भाषाएं  are spoken or signed by the population , of which 176  हैं  indigenous to  the  area .
Fifty-two languages formerly  बोला   in  the  देश  's territory are now extinct .
The variety of  अंग्रेज़ी  spoken in the United  राज्य   is  known as American English .
English  is  the de  facto   नेशनल  language of  the   संयुक्त  States , with 80 %  of  the population claiming  it  as a mother tongue  ,  and some 95 % claiming to speak it `` well '' or `` very well  ''  .
However , no official  भाषा   exists  at the federal level  .
There have been several proposals to make English the national language in  amendments   to  immigration reform bills , but none of these bills has become law with the amendment intact .
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial levels  ,   साथ   कुछ   राज्य  mirroring the federal policy of adopting  no   आधिकारिक  language in a de  jure  capacity , others adopting English  अलोन  , others officially adopting English  as  well as local languages , and still others adopting  a  policy of de facto bilingualism .
Spanish is the second most common  भाषा   in  the country , and  is  spoken by over 12  %  of  the  population .
The United States holds the world 's  पांचवां  largest Spanish-speaking population , outnumbered only by Mexico  ,  Spain , Colombia , and Argentina .
throughout  the Southwestern United States , long-established Spanish-speaking communities coexist with large numbers of more  हाल  Hispanophone immigrants .
Although  अनेक   नई  Latin  अमरीकी   आप्रवासियों  are less  than   धाराप्रवाह  in English ,  nearly  all second-generation Hispanic Americans speak English fluently ,  जबकि   तभी  about half still speak Spanish  .
According to the 2000 US  जनसांख्यिकी   ,   लोगों  of German ancestry make up the largest  सिंगल  ethnic  समूह  in  the  United States ,  और  the German language ranks fifth .
Italian , Polish , and French are still  widely   बोला  among populations descending from immigrants  इससे  those  देशों  in the  जल्दी  20th century , but  the  use of these  भाषाएं  is  dwindling   as   the  older  पीढियां  die .
Russian is also spoken by immigrant populations  .
Tagalog and Vietnamese  have  over one million speakers  प्रत्येक  in  the  United States , almost entirely within  हाल  immigrant populations .
Both languages , along with the varieties of the Chinese language , Japanese , and Korean  ,  are  अभी  used  in  elections in Alaska , California , Hawaii , Illinois  ,  New York , Texas , and Washington .
Native American  भाषाएं  are spoken in smaller  pockets   of  the  देश   ,  but these populations are  अवरोहण  , and the languages are almost  never  widely used outside of reservations .
Hawaiian  ,  although having  few   देशी  speakers , is an official  भाषा  along with English at the state level in Hawaii .
The state government of Louisiana  offers  services and documents in French , as does  नई  Mexico in Spanish .
Besides English , Spanish ,  फ्रेंच  , German , Navajo and other Native American languages  ,   सब  other languages are usually learned from immigrant ancestors that came after the time of independence or learned through some form  of  education .
1990 's  pontiac  Grand  am  Sedan fender and quarter panel
On an  ऑटोमोबाइल  , a quarter panel ( or rear wing as it is known  in   अंग्रेजों  English ) is usually considered the body panel which  goes  between the rear door  और  the trunk and typically wraps around the wheel well ; however , the similar front  खण्ड  Fender ( vehicle ) , between the door and the hood , is sometimes incorrectly referred to  as  a quarter panel .
The quarter panel is typically  बना  of  चादर  metal ,  लकिन  is sometimes made of  fiberglass  or fiber-reinforced plastic ; although , this varies with different makes and models .
A quarter  फलक  is typically a welded on component  of  the uni-body structure or  monocoque  .
Replacement of a sheet  मेटल  quarter panel typically  requires   it  to  be  cut off the vehicle and a replacement part to be welded ( or  sometimes   बंधुआ  ) to  the   गाडी   .
Due to this high amount of  specialized  labor , a  क्वार्टर  panel may often  be   repaired  rather than replaced by  hammering  out  the   क्षति  , and a  देह  filler  sometimes  referred to as bondo to be applied to finalize the original surface .
Shropshire ( or ; alternatively  salop  ; abbreviated ,  in  print only  ,  Shrops  )  is  a  county in  the   वेस्ट   मिडलैंड्स  region of  इंग्लैण्ड  .
It  सीमायें   वेल्स   to   the  west , Cheshire to the north , Staffordshire  to  the east , Worcestershire  to  the south-east and Herefordshire to the  दक्षिण  .
A  एकात्मक  authority  (  Shropshire  परिषद  ) was created on 1 April 2009 , taking over from the previous county council  और  5 district councils  ,  and covers  सबसे  of the county .
The  बरो  of Telford and Wrekin  रै   महरूम  a  पृथक  unitary authority since 1998 but continues to be included in the ceremonial county  .
The county  's  population and economy  is  centred  on  five  कस्बों  : the county town  of  Shrewsbury  ,   जिससे   is   culturally   और  historically important and is located in the centre of the county  ;  Telford , a  नई  town in the  ईस्ट  which  थी  constructed around  a   क्रमांक  of older towns  ,  most notably Wellington  ,  Dawley and Madeley ,  जिससे  is  आज   the  most populous ;  और  Oswestry in the north-west  ,  Bridgnorth just  to   the  south  of  Telford , and Ludlow in  the  south .
The county has many further market towns , including Whitchurch in the north  ,  Newport just to  the  north-east of Telford ,  और  Market Drayton in the north-east  of  the county .
The Ironbridge Gorge area is a  युनेस्को  World Heritage  साईट  , covering Ironbridge , Coalbrookdale and a part of Madeley .
There are , additionally  ,  other notable historic industrial sites located around the county , such as at Shrewsbury , Broseley , Snailbeach and  highley  as well as the Shropshire Union  कनाल  .
The Shropshire Hills Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty covers  परिचय  a quarter of the county , mainly in the  दक्षिण  .
Shropshire is one  of   इंग्लैण्ड  's most rural and sparsely populated counties , with the population  घनत्व  of the Shropshire Council  क्षेत्रफल  being just  91/km2  ( 337/sq mi  )  .
The Wrekin is one of the most famous natural landmarks in  the  county  ,   हालांकि  the highest  पहाड़ियाँ  are  the  Clee Hills  ,  Stiperstones and the Long Mynd .
Wenlock Edge is  another  significant geographical and geological  लैंडमार्क  .
In the low-lying northwest of the  काउंटी  (  और   अतिव्यापी  the border with Wales ) is the Fenn 's  ,  Whixall and Bettisfield Mosses National Nature Reserve ,  एक  of  the  most important and best preserved  bogs  in Britain .
The River Severn ,  ग्रेट   ब्रिटेन  's longest river , runs through the county , exiting into Worcestershire via the Severn Valley .
Shropshire is landlocked ,  और  with an area  of  ,  is  England 's largest  अंतर्देशीय   काउंटी   .
The county flower is  the  round-leaved sundew  .
For Eurostat purposes , the county ( less the unitary  ज़िला  of Telford and Wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 region (  कोड  UKG22 ) .
the  two  shropshire  unitary areas ( covering all of the ceremonial  काउंटी  ) , together with the authorities covering the ceremonial county of Staffordshire , comprise the `` Shropshire and  staffordshire  '' NUTS 2 region .
The Big Bang Theory  डाल  at Comic  कॉन  2009 , from left :  कुणाल  Nayyar  ,  Simon  helberg  , Kaley Cuoco ,  जिम  Parsons  ,   और  Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang  सिद्धान्त  ,  निर्मित  and executive produced by  चक  Lorre and Bill Prady , premiered on CBS on September 24  ,   2007  .
The show centers on  पाँच  characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard  hofstadter  ,  दो  Caltech physicists ; Penny  ,   a  waitress and aspiring  अभिनेत्री   जो  lives across the  हॉल  ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers  aerospace   इंजीनियर  Howard Wolowitz  ,  and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali .
Over time ,  अनेक   supporting   वर्ण  have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ;  ऋतु   2  regular ; season 3 guest ) , a physicist colleague ,  और  , at different times , a lover of both Leonard and Howard  ;  Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz (  ऋतु  3 recurring ; season  4-present  regular )  ,  a microbiologist ,  हावर्ड  's fiancée and subsequent wife , and former part-time  वेट्रेस  alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season  3  guest ; season 4 recurring ;  ऋतु  4-present  नियमित   )  , who joins the group after  होने  matched to Sheldon on a  डेटिंग   जालस्थल  ; and comic  किताब  store-owner ,  स्टुअर्ट  Bloom ( seasons  2–5  recurring  ;  season 6-present regular ) ,  जो  replaces  हावर्ड  as Raj 's best friend when Howard is  in  space .
The show also features  numerous  supporting characters , each of whom plays a prominent role  in  a small  समूह  of episodes .
The  a-team   is   an  American action-adventure television series  ,  running from 1983  to  1987 , about a  fictional  group of  ex–  United  राज्य  Army Special Forces personnel who work  as  soldiers  of  fortune  ,   जबकि  on the run from the Army after being branded as war criminals for a `` crime they did n't commit `` .
A feature film based  on  the series  थी  released by 20th  सदी  Fox on  जून  11 , 2010 .
A comic  किताब  series  ,  A-Team : Shotgun Wedding , began March 9 , 2010 .
Diana Prince is a fictional character appearing regularly in stories published  by  DC Comics  .
She debuted in Sensation  कॉमिक्स  # 1 ( January 1942 ) and serves  as   the  civilian and secret  पहचान  of the superhero Wonder Woman .
The character was created  by  Charles Moulton and Harry  G.   पीटर  .
Wat Phra Kaew , Bangkok  ,  Thailand
There  is  no official state religion in the Thai constitution , which guarantees religious freedom for  सब   थाई  citizens , though the king is required  by   विधि  to be Buddhist .
According  to  the last census ( 2000 ) 94.6 %  of  Thais are Buddhists of the  थेरवाद   परंपरा  .
Muslims are the second largest religious group in Thailand at 4.6 %  .
Thailand 's southernmost  प्रांतों  - Pattani  ,  Yala , Narathiwat and part of Songkhla Chumphon have dominant Muslim populations , consisting  of   दोनो  ethnic Thai and  मलय  .
The southern tip of Thailand is mostly ethnic Malays .
Christians , mainly Catholics , represent 0.7 % of  the  population .
A small  लकिन  influential community of Sikhs in Thailand and some Hindus also live in the country 's cities , and are  heavily  engaged in retail commerce  .
There is also a small Jewish community in Thailand , dating back to the 17th century .
Since  2001  ,  मुस्लिम  activists , generally described by the Thai government as terrorists  or  separatists  ,  have rallied against the central government  क्युकी  of alleged corruption and  जातीय  bias on the part of officials .
थाईलैंड  's Department  of  Religion , currently under the  मंत्रालय  of Culture , is  formally  responsible  लिये  the registration of religious groups in Thailand URL_http which hold  गुण  through legally established  मूलाधार  .
It has oversight , along with the Immigration Police , over  the   कार्य  permits  of  missionaries who are `` expatriate religious workers '' of  सब  religions .
A value  added  tax ( VAT )  is  a form of consumption tax  .
इससे  the perspective of  the   खरीदार   ,  it is a tax on the purchase price  .
From  कि  of the  विक्रेता  ,  it   is  a tax only on the value  added  to a product , material ,  or   सेवा  , from an accounting point of view , by  इस  stage  of  its manufacture or distribution .
The  निर्माता  remits to  the  government  the  difference  between   ये  two amounts , and  retains  the rest for themselves to offset the taxes they had previously paid on the  inputs  .
The value added to a  उत्पाद   by  or with  a   कारोबार   is  the sale price charged  to  its customer , minus the cost  of   सामग्री  and other taxable inputs .
A VAT  is  like a sales tax in that ultimately only the end consumer is taxed .
It differs from the  बिक्री   कर   in  that  ,   साथ  the latter , the tax is collected and remitted to  the  government  तभी   एकबार  , at the point of purchase by the end consumer  .
साथ  the  vat   ,  collections , remittances to the government  ,  and credits  लिये  taxes already paid occur each time a business in  the  supply chain purchases products .
A referee calling a high-sticking  penaltyhigh
-sticking  is the name  of   दो   infractions   in  the sport of ice hockey that may  occur   जब  a player intentionally or  inadvertently   plays  with  उसके  or her  स्टिक  above the  ऊँचाई  of  the  shoulders or above the cross bar of a hockey goal .
This can result in a stoppage of  खेल   or  in a penalty .
In the  नियम  of the  नेशनल  Hockey League , high-sticking is  पारिभाषित  as  a  penalty in Rule 60  और  as a non-penalty foul in Rule 80 .
a  stoppage in  खेल  results if a  ऊँची  stick comes  in  contact  साथ   the  puck  और   the  team who touched it  regains  control  of   the  puck .
However , play usually continues if a player  छू  the puck with a high stick and the  opposing  team gains  कंट्रोल  of the puck .
if  the puck goes into the  opposing  net after  coming  into contact with a high stick , the  लक्ष्य  is  प्रतिबंधित  .
The level at  जिससे   a  stick  is  considered  too  high for a goal is the crossbar of  the  net .
However , if a player knocks the puck into  उसके   अपना  net  साथ  a high stick , the  लक्ष्य   is  allowed .
A penalty is assessed if a player strikes another player with a  ऊँची   स्टिक  .
the  player is  दिए  a minor penalty unless his high  स्टिक  caused an injury , in which case  the  referee has the option to assess a double-minor , major or match penalty .
it  is the referee 's discretion which penalty to assess : the  नियम   काल्स  for a double minor for an accidental  चोट   ,   or  a match penalty for a deliberate  attempt  to injure  (  whether the opposition player was actually injured ) .
Injury is usually  decided  by the  ऊँची  stick causing bleeding , but the presence of  रक्त   करता  not automatically mean  an  extra penalty is awarded .
कुछ  referees have  महरूम  known to award an extra penalty without  the  presence of blood if the referee determines that the injury sustained  थी  sufficient  to  warrant a double-minor penalty .
Typical modern memory card reader  ,  compatible with  अनेक  common formats
a   मेमोरी  card  रीडर  is a device  ,   typically  having a  usb   इंटरफ़ेस   ,  for accessing the data on  a  memory card such as  a  CompactFlash ( CF ) , Secure Digital (  sd  ) or MultiMediaCard ( MMC ) .
Most  कार्ड  readers also  प्रस्ताव  write capability ,  और  together with the card , this can function as a pen  ड्राइव  .
Some printers and personal computers have a built-in card reader .
A  मल्टी  card reader is used  लिये   संचार   साथ  more than one type of flash memory  कार्ड  .
Multi card readers do not have built-in memory capacity , but are  समर्थ  to accept multiple types and styles  of  memory cards .
The number  of  compatible memory cards  varies  from reader to  रीडर  and can  शामिल  more than 20 different types .
The number of different  मेमोरी  cards that a multi card reader can accept  is  expressed as x-in-1 , with x being  a  figure  of  merit indicating the  क्रमांक  of memory cards accepted , such as  35-in-1  .
There are three categories  of  card readers  sorted  by the  प्रकार  and quantity of  the  card slots : single card reader ( e.g . 1x SD-only ) , multi card reader ( e.g  .  9-in-1 )  और  series  कार्ड  reader ( e.g . 4x  sd  only ) .
Some kinds  of  memory cards  साथ  their own USB functions do not need  the  card reader ,  ऐसे  as the Intelligent Stick  मेमोरी  card , which can plug directly into  a  USB slot .
The USB device class used is 0x08 .
Bullying is detrimental to students ' well-being and development .
Bullying is the use of  फ़ोर्स  or coercion to abuse  or  intimidate  अन्य  .
The  बर्ताव  can be habitual and involve an imbalance of social or  शारीरिक  power .
It can include verbal  उत्पीड़न  or threat , physical assault or coercion and  may  be directed repeatedly towards particular victims , perhaps on grounds  of  race , religion  ,  gender ,  कामुकता  , or  क्षमता   .
If bullying  is   किया  by a group , it is called  mobbing  .
The victim of bullying is sometimes referred to as a `` target ''  .
Bullying can be defined in many different ways .
The UK currently has no  विधिक  definition of bullying  ,  while some U.S.  राज्य  have laws against it .
Bullying consists of three basic types of abuse – emotional ,  मौखिक  , and physical .
It typically involves subtle  विधि  of coercion such as intimidation  .
Bullying ranges  इससे  simple one-on-one bullying to more complex bullying in which  the  bully  may  have one or more `` lieutenants '' who may seem to be willing to assist the  प्राथमिक   बुली  in his or her bullying  क्रियाएँ  .
Bullying  in  school and  the  workplace is also referred to as  पीर  abuse .
रॉबर्ट  W. Fuller has analyzed  धमकाना  in the context  of  rankism  .
a  bullying culture  can  develop in  कोई  context in which human  beings  interact  साथ  each other .
इस  includes school , church , family  ,   the   कार्यस्थल  , home  ,  and neighborhoods .
Happy slapping  in  the Instituto Regional  federico  Errázuriz  ,  Santa Cruz , Chile
लौरा  Bush and Rae  leigh   bradbury  (  formerly  missing ) on April  4  , 2007  ,   in  Austin , Texas , after  the  8-year-old introduced Mrs.  बुश   दौरान  announcement of the  भविष्य  opening of the Texas  क्षेत्रीय  Office of the National Center for Missing  और  Exploited Children .
Rae Leigh  थी  the  पहला   चाइल्ड  in  the  U.S.  to  be recovered  as  a result of an  एम्बर  Alert when she was 8 weeks old in November 1998 .
an  AMBER Alert or a  चाइल्ड  Abduction Emergency ( SAME code : CAE )  is  a child abduction alert  प्रणाली   originating  in 1996  ,   अभी  employed in 9 countries .
AMBER is officially a backronym for America 's Missing : Broadcasting  आपात  Response , named  लिये  Amber  hagerman  , a  9-year-old  abducted and murdered  in   आर्लिंगटन  ,  टेक्सास  in 1996 .
Alternate regional alert names were once used ; in Georgia , `` Levi 's  कॉल  '' (  नामित  after  लेवी  Frady ) ; in Hawaii , ``  maile  Amber Alert  ''  ( after Maile Gilbert ) ; and Arkansas , ``  मॉर्गन  Nick Amber Alert '' ( in memory of  मॉर्गन   chauntel  Nick ) .
AMBER Alerts are distributed via commercial radio stations  ,  Internet radio , satellite radio , television stations , and cable  tv  by  the  Emergency Alert System and NOAA Weather Radio (  जहाँ  they are  termed   ``  Child Abduction  आपात  '' or `` Amber Alerts '' ) .
The alerts are also issued via e-mail  ,   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  traffic-condition signs , the LED billboards which are located  बाहर  of newer Walgreens locations , along with the LED/LCD  लक्षण  of billboard companies  ऐसे  as Clear Channel  बाहरी  ,  सीबीएस  Outdoor and Lamar , or through  बेतार  device SMS  टेक्स्ट  messages .
AMBER Alert has also teamed up with Google and Facebook to relay information  regarding   an  AMBER  चेतावनी  to an ever growing demographic  .
Those interested in subscribing to receive  एम्बर   चेतावनियाँ  in their area via SMS messages can visit  बेतार  Amber Alerts , which are offered  by  law as  फ़्री  messages .
In some states , the  प्रदर्शक  scrollboards in front of  लॉटरी  terminals are also  प्रयुक्त  .
The  निर्णय  to declare an AMBER  चेतावनी  is made by each  पुलिस  organization (  in  many cases ,  the  state police or  राजमार्ग  patrol  )  which investigates  प्रत्येक  of  the  abductions .
Public information  in  an  एम्बर   चेतावनी  usually consists  of  the name and description of  the  abductee , a description of the suspected abductor ,  और  a description and license plate number  of  the abductor 's vehicle , if available .
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July  23   ,   1973  )  is  an American woman with whom United States President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while  वो   worked  at the White  हाउस  in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its repercussions (  जिससे  included Clinton 's impeachment ) became known  as  the Lewinsky scandal .
House of Night is a series of  पिशाच  -themed fantasy  novels  by  अमरीकी   लेखक  P. C. Cast and her daughter  kristin  Cast .
It follows the adventures of Zoey Redbird , a sixteen-year-old girl  जो  has  बस  become a `` fledgling  vampyre   ''   और  is  जरूरी  to attend the  हाउस  of Night  बोर्डिंग   स्कूल  in Tulsa , Oklahoma .
the   श्रेणी   रै   महरूम   on  the New York Times  बेहतरीन   विक्रेता  list for  63  weeks and there are over  सात   लाख   नक़ल  in print in North America  अलोन   .
The sixth novel , Tempted , which went on sale on October  27   ,  2009 with a first printing of  a  million copies ,  डाला  the USA  आज  bestseller list that week at # 1 .
In  जनवरी  , 2010  ,  Gezeichnet , a  जर्मनी  translation of Marked , reached the  #  1 spot on  the  Der Spiegel  बेस्टसेलर  list  .
The series has so far sold  अधिक  than ten million books in 39 countries .
burned  was  released  on April 27 , 2010 ,  और  like Tempted  ,  it  डाला  the USA Today bestseller  सूची  that  सप्ताह   at  # 1 .
Awakened ,  released  in January  ,  2011  ,  also  डाला  the list at # 1 .
The series  ,  which is published by St Martin 's Press  is   नियोजित  to  शामिल  twelve books .
In  2008   ,   योजनाएँ  for a film adaptation were also announced .
The  दसवाँ   किताब  in the series  ,  Hidden  ,  was released on October 16 , 2012 .
The  दूसरी   किताब  in the novellas ( which give backgrounds  on  supporting  वर्ण  )  ,  Lenobia 's Vow , was  released  January 31 , 2012 .
Book  ग्यारह  is currently called Revealed , and the Casts have announced that two  अधिक  novellas , Neferet’s Curse  ,  planned to be released February 19  ,   2013  , and a prequel novel about Kalona , are to be released to  coincide  with the eleventh and  बारहवीं  books .
in  Greek mythology , the  trojan  War was waged  विरूद्ध  the city of Troy by the Achaeans ( Greeks  )  after Paris  of  Troy took Helen from  उसके  husband Menelaus king  of  Sparta .
The war is  एक  of the most important  कार्यक्रम  in Greek  mythology  and has been narrated through many works of Greek  साहित्य  , most notably through  होमर  's Iliad  और  the Odyssey .
The Iliad relates a  भाग  of the last year of the siege of Troy  ;  the Odyssey  describes  Odysseus  's   यात्रा  home  .
Other  भाग  of  the  war are  contained   in  a  साईकिल  of  एपिक  poems , which have survived  through  fragments .
एपीसोड  from the war provided material  लिये  Greek tragedy and other works of Greek literature  ,  and  लिये  Roman poets including Virgil and  ओविड  .
The war originated from a quarrel between the goddesses Athena , Hera , and Aphrodite , after Eris , the goddess  of  strife and discord ,  दिया  them a golden apple , sometimes known as the  ठहराना  of Discord , marked  ``  for  the  fairest '' .
Zeus sent  the  goddesses to Paris , who  judged  that Aphrodite , as the `` fairest '' , should receive  the  apple .
In  एक्सचेंज  , Aphrodite made  हेलेन  , the most beautiful of all women and wife of Menelaus , fall in love with Paris  ,  who took her to  ट्रॉय  .
Agamemnon  ,  king of Mycenae and  the  brother of Helen 's husband  menelaus  ,  led  an expedition  of  Achaean troops to Troy and  besieged  the  नगर  for ten years because  of  Paris '  बेइज्जती  .
बाद  the deaths of  अनेक  heroes , including the Achaeans Achilles and  अजाक्स  ,  और  the Trojans  हेक्टर  and Paris , the city  गिरी  to  the  ruse  of   the  Trojan Horse  .
the  Achaeans slaughtered the  ट्रोजन्स   (  except for some of the women and children whom they kept or sold as  स्लेव  )  और  desecrated the  मंदिरों  , thus earning the gods ' wrath .
Few of the Achaeans returned safely to their homes and many  संस्थापित  colonies in distant  shores  .
The Romans later traced their origin  to  Aeneas  ,  one of the  ट्रोजन्स  , who was said to have led the surviving Trojans to modern-day  इटली  .
the  ancient Greeks  विचार   कि   the   trojan  War was a historical event that had  लिया  place in the 13th or 12th  सदी  BC , and believed that Troy was located in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles .
By modern times , both the war and  the   नगर  were widely  believed  to be non-historical  .
In 1868 , however , the German  पुरातत्ववेत्ताओं  Heinrich Schliemann met Frank Calvert ,  जो  convinced  schliemann   कि  Troy was at Hissarlik and Schliemann took over  calvert  's  excavations  on  प्रॉपर्टी  belonging to Calvert ; this claim  is  now accepted by most scholars .
whether  there is any historical reality behind the Trojan War is an open question .
Many  विद्वानों   मानना  that there is a historical core to the tale  ,  though this  may  simply mean that the Homeric stories are a fusion  of  various tales of sieges and expeditions by Mycenaean  यूनानियों  during the Bronze Age .
Those who believe that  the   कहानियां  of the Trojan War are  निकला  from  a  specific historical conflict  प्रायः  date it to the  12th   or  11th centuries BC , often preferring the  तिथियाँ  given by Eratosthenes , 1194–1184 BC ,  जिससे  roughly corresponds  साथ  archaeological evidence of  a   अनर्थकारी  burning of Troy VIIa .
Anarchists have employed  निश्चित  symbols for their cause , including  सबसे  prominently the circle-A and the black  ध्वज  , although  anarchists  have historically largely denied the importance of symbols to political  गति  .
Since the revival of anarchism around  the  start  of  the 21st-century concurrent with the rise of the  anti-globalization  movement , anarchist cultural symbols  हैं  widely present  .
The greater palatine canal ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a  ड्योढ़ी  in the skull  कि  transmits the greater palatine artery ,  रग  , and nerve between  the  pterygopalatine  fossa  and the oral cavity .
Surface  तापमान  of  अंटार्कटिक  in winter and summer from the  यूरोपीय   केन्द्र  for Medium-Range  मौसम  Forecasts
The climate of Antarctica is the coldest on the  पूरे   of  Earth .
Antarctica has the lowest naturally occurring temperature  कभी  recorded  on  the ground  on  Earth : −89.2  °c  (  −128.6  °F ) at Vostok Station .
It is also extremely dry ( technically a desert ) ,  averaging  166  mm   (  6.5 in ) of  वर्षण  per  साल  .
Even so , on most parts  of  the continent the snow rarely melts and is  आखिरकार  compressed  to   become  the glacial  बर्फ  that  makes  up the ice  चादर  .
Weather fronts rarely penetrate far into the continent .
Most of Antarctica has an  बर्फ  cap climate  (  Köppen EF )  साथ  very cold , generally extremely  शुष्क  weather throughout  the  year  और  no month  averaging   ऊपर   0  °C ( 32  °f  ) .
कुछ  fringe  तटीय   क्षेत्रों  have a  टुण्ड्रा  climate ( Köppen ET ) with a short summer averaging above freezing ,  और  much higher precipitation  .
Current head coach Mike Tomlin ,  दौरान  the  2007  season
The Pittsburgh Steelers  मताधिकार  has had 16 head coaches throughout its history .
Founded as the Pittsburgh  pirates  in , the name was changed to the Steelers prior to the season to celebrate  the  city 's heritage of producing steel .
Joe Bach served two separate terms as head coach and Walt  kiesling  served three separate terms .
During the and seasons ,  due  to the amount of players who fought  in  World  युद्ध  II , the Steelers combined their team with  फिलाडेल्फिया  and Chicago ,  क्रमशः  .
During these seasons , Steelers '  कोच  Walt Kiesling  साझा  coaching duties with Greasy Neale and Phil Handler , who have not been  शामिल  within this list  .
Struggling for much of the franchise 's  जल्दी   सालो  , the team  's  first season with  अधिक  wins than losses was coached  by   jock  Sutherland in .
in   ,  under Sutherland ,  the  Steelers played their first playoff  खेल  against the Philadelphia  ईगल्स  .
Ten of  the  16 head  कोच  spent their  संपूर्ण  professional coaching careers  साथ  the franchise ,  सहित   जॉन  McNally , Walt Kiesling and Chuck Noll ,  जो  have  भी  been voted into  the   प्रो  Football  हॉल  of Fame .
One of only  चार  men  to  coach the same team for  23   सालो   ,  Chuck Noll  रिटायर्ड  in  .
Noll is  भी  the only coach in  नेशनल  Football League history to win four  सुपर  Bowls  .
विधेयक   cowher  , Noll  's  replacement  ,  coached the Steelers to their fifth Super  कटोरी   विजय  ,  in  2005  .
The Steelers  छठे   सुपर  Bowl win came in Super Bowl XLIII , while head coached by Mike Tomlin , the team 's current  सिर  coach .
in   दण्ड  law , fraud is intentional deception made for personal  लाभ  or to damage another individual  ;  the related adjective is fraudulent , and verb is defraud .
Fraud is a crime and a civil law violation , though  the  specific criminal  विधि   परिभाषा   varies  by legal jurisdiction .
Defrauding people or entities of money  or  valuables is  a   आम  purpose of fraud .
a  hoax also involves deception ,  लकिन   बगैर   the  intention of gain  or  of damaging or depriving the  शिकार  .
Fraud is a defense in a civil action  लिये  breach of contract or specific performance of  a   अनुबंध  .
Fraud is a basis  लिये  equitable  क्षेत्राधिकार  .
Passover ,  or  Pesach ( from  :  in Hebrew ,  यहूदी   )   ,  Tiberian :  ,   आधुनिक   यहूदी  : /ˈpesaχ/ Pesah , Pesakh , Yiddish  :  Peysekh ,  paysakh   ,  Paysokh ) is  an  important  biblically  -derived Jewish festival .
historically  , together with Shavuot (  ``   पेंटेकोस्ट  '' ) and  sukkot  ( ``  झोपड़ियों  '' ) , Passover is  एक  of the three pilgrimage festivals ( Shalosh Regalim  )  during which the entire population of the kingdom of Judah made a  यात्राएं  to the  टेम्पल  in Jerusalem .
Samaritans still make this  यात्राएं  to Mount  gerizim  , but  तभी  men participate  in   पब्लिक  worship  .
passover  commences on the 15th  of  the Hebrew month of Nisan  और  lasts for either seven days ( in Israel ) or eight  दिनों  ( in the diaspora ) .
In Judaism ,  a   दिन  commences  at   संध्या   और  lasts until the  following  dusk , thus  the  first day of Passover  तभी  begins after  संध्या  of the 14th of  nisan   और  ends at dusk of  the  15th day of the month of Nisan .
The rituals unique to the Passover celebrations commence with the  passover   seder   जब  the 15th of Nisan  रै  begun .
In the Northern Hemisphere Passover  takes  place  in   वसन्त  as the  तोरा   prescribes  it  :   ``   in   the   माह  of [ the ] spring ''  (  בחדש האביב ) .
It is one of the  सबसे  widely observed Jewish holidays  .
The Jewish people celebrate Passover as a commemoration of their liberation over 3,300 years ago  by  God  इससे  slavery in ancient Egypt that was ruled  by  the Pharaohs , and their  जनम   as  a  स्वदेश  under the leadership of  मूसा  .
It commemorates the  स्टोरी   of  the Exodus as  वर्णित  in  the  Hebrew Bible  विशेषकर   in  the Book of Exodus , in which the Israelites were freed from slavery  in  Egypt .
In the narrative of the Exodus , the Bible  tells  that God helped the Children of Israel escape from their slavery in Egypt by inflicting ten plagues upon the ancient Egyptians before  the   pharaoh  would release his Israelite slaves ; the tenth and worst of  the  plagues was the death of the Egyptian first-born  .
The Israelites were instructed to mark the doorposts  of  their  घरों  with the blood  of  a  slaughtered  spring lamb and ,  upon  seeing this , the spirit of the Lord knew to pass over the first-born in  ये  homes , hence the  नाम  of the holiday .
There is some debate over where the term  is  actually derived from .
When  the  Pharaoh freed the Israelites ,  it   is  said that they left in  ऐसे  a hurry that  वे   could   नहीं   इंतजार  for  ब्रैड  dough  to  rise ( leaven ) .
In  commemoration  ,  लिये  the duration  of  Passover no leavened  ब्रैड  is eaten  ,  for which reason it is called `` The  पर्व  of the Unleavened  ब्रैड  '' .
Thus  matzo  ( flat unleavened bread  )   is  eaten during Passover and it is  a  symbol of the holiday .
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley  (  or ) , officially designated 1P/Halley , is  the  best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth  प्रत्येक  75–76 years .
Halley is the only short-period comet that is  clearly  visible to the  नग्न  eye  इससे  Earth , and thus  the  only naked-eye comet that might appear  twice   in   a   इंसान  lifetime  .
Other naked-eye  धूमकेतुओं  may  be   उज्जवल  and  अधिक  spectacular , but  होगा  appear only  एकबार  in  हज़ारों  of  सालो  .
Halley 's returns to the  भीतरी  Solar  प्रणाली  have  महरूम  observed and recorded by astronomers since at least  240   bce  .
साफ   रिकॉर्ड  of the comet 's  दिखावे  were made by Chinese , Babylonian ,  और   मध्यकालीन  European chroniclers , but were not  पहचाना  as reappearances of the same object at  the   समय  .
the   धूमकेतु  's  periodicity  was first  संकल्पित  in 1705 by  अंग्रेज़ी  astronomer  edmond  Halley , after whom it is now named .
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the inner Solar System in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061 .
During its 1986 apparition  ,  Halley became the first  धूमकेतु  to be observed in detail  by  spacecraft , providing the  पहला  observational  आंकड़ा  on the structure of a comet nucleus  और  the mechanism of coma and tail formation .
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction  ,   विशेषकर  Fred Whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model , which  correctly  predicted that Halley would  be   रचित  of a mixture  of  volatile ices – such as water , carbon dioxide and ammonia –  और  dust .
The missions also  provided  data which substantially  reformed  and  reconfigured  these ideas  ;  for instance it  is   अभी  understood that Halley  's   सतह  is largely  रचित   of   dusty  , non-volatile materials  ,  and that only  a  small portion of it  is  icy .
anti-communism  is opposition to communism .
Organized anti-communism developed  in  reaction to the rise of communism , especially after the 1917  अक्तूबर   क्रान्ति  in Russia and reaching global dimensions  दौरान  the Cold  युद्ध   .
Most anti-communists reject  the   अवधारणा  of historical materialism , which  is  a central idea in Marxism .
Anti-communists reject  the  Marxist  विश्वास  that capitalism will be followed by socialism and communism  ,  just as feudalism was followed  by  capitalism .
anti-communists  question the validity  of  the Marxist  अर्जी  that the  समाजवादी   राज्य  will ``  wither  away '' when it  becomes  unnecessary in a  सच्चा   कम्युनिस्ट  society .
Anti-communists argue that the repression  in  the early  सालो  of Bolshevik rule , while  नहीं  as extreme  as  that during Joseph Stalin 's rule  ,  was still severe by reasonable standards , citing examples  ऐसे  as Felix Dzerzhinsky  's  secret police , which eliminated numerous political opponents  by  extrajudicial executions , and the brutal crushing of the Kronstadt  विद्रोह  and Tambov  विद्रोह   .
Some anti-communists  refer   to  both Communism and fascism  as  totalitarianism , seeing similarity  between  the actions  of  communist and  फासिस्ट  governments .
Historian Robert Conquest has argued that Communism was responsible  लिये  tens of millions of deaths during  the  20th century .
Opponents argue that  कम्युनिस्ट  parties that have come to power  have  tended to be rigidly intolerant of political opposition  .
These  प्रतिद्वंद्वियों  claim that  सबसे  Communist  देशों  have shown no signs of advancing from Marx 's  समाजवादी  stage  of  economy to  an  ideal communist stage .
Rather ,  कम्युनिस्ट  governments have been accused of creating a  नई  ruling  क्लास   (  a Nomenklatura )  ,  with powers and privileges  वृहद  than those  previously  enjoyed by the upper classes in  the  non- communist regimes .
Gil Heron ( 9 April 1922  –  27 November 2008 ) was a Jamaican  पेशेवर   footballer  .
he  was the first black player to play for Scottish club Celtic , and was the father of poet  और  musician  gil  Scott-Heron  .
He died in Detroit of a heart attack on 27 November 2008  .
The soybean ( US )  or  soya bean ( UK )  (  Glycine max ) is  a   प्रजाति  of legume native to East Asia  ,  widely grown for its edible bean which has numerous  उपयोग  .
the  plant is classed as an oilseed rather than  a   पल्स  by the  un  Food and  agricultural   संगठन  ( FAO ) .
Fat-free ( defatted ) soybean meal is a significant  और  cheap source of protein for  एनिमल  feeds and many prepackaged meals ;  सोया   सब्ज़ी  oil is another product of processing the soybean crop .
For example , soybean products such as textured  सब्ज़ी   प्रोटीन  ( TVP )  हैं  ingredients in  अनेक   मांस   और  dairy analogues .
Soybeans produce significantly more protein per acre  than   सबसे  other uses of land .
Traditional nonfermented food uses of soybeans  शामिल  soy  मिल्क   ,  and from the latter tofu and tofu skin .
fermented  foods include soy sauce , fermented  सेम  paste , natto , and tempeh ,  among  others .
The oil is used in many industrial applications .
The main producers of soy are  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  ( 35 % )  ,  Brazil ( 27 % ) ,  अर्जेंटीना   (  19 %  )  , China  (   6  %  )   और  India ( 4 % ) .
The  सेम  contain  significant  amounts of phytic acid ,  alpha-linolenic  acid  ,  and isoflavones .
Harrison Ford ( born July 13 ,  1942  )  is  an American film actor and producer .
he  is famous  लिये  his performances as Han  सोलो  in the original Star  युद्धों  trilogy and the title character of the Indiana  जोन्स  film series  .
Ford is also known for his  भूमिकाएँ  as  रिक  Deckard in Blade Runner  ,   जॉन  Book in Witness  और  Jack  रयान  in Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger .
His  करियर  has spanned  छह   दशकों  and  शामिल  roles in several Hollywood blockbusters , including Presumed  निर्दोष  ,  the   भगोड़े  , Air Force One , and  कया  Lies Beneath .
At one  पाइंट  , four of the top six box-office hits of  सब   समय  included one of his roles .
Five of his films have been inducted into the National  फिल्मी  Registry .
In 1997 ,  घाट  was ranked No . 1 in Empire `` The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time  ''  list  .
, the United States domestic box office grosses  of   घाट  's films total  over  US $ 3.5  अरब  , with worldwide grosses  surpassing  $  6  billion , making Ford the third highest grossing U.S. domestic box-office star .
Ford is the husband of actress Calista Flockhart .
A tube of ChapStick
ChapStick is a brand name  लिये  lip balm manufactured  by  Pfizer Consumer Healthcare  और   प्रयुक्त  in  अनेक  countries  विश्वव्यापी   .
It is  intended  to help treat and prevent chapped  होठ  ; hence the name .
Many varieties also  शामिल   सनस्क्रीन  in order  to  prevent  sunburn  .
Due to its popularity , the term has become a genericized trademark .
it  popularly refers to any lip balm contained in a  lipstick-style  tube and applied in the  वही  manner as lipstick .
however  , the  पद  is still  a  registered trademark , with  अधिकारों   exclusively  owned by Pfizer .
In Sweden  और   in  the United Kingdom , the product 's main competitor is Lypsyl  ,   बना   by  Novartis  उपभोक्ता  Health , which is  वितरित  in similar packaging  to  ChapStick .
George Berkeley ( ;  12  March  168514  January 1753 )  ,  also known as Bishop Berkeley ( Bishop of  cloyne   )   ,  was an Anglo-Irish philosopher whose primary achievement was the advancement of a theory he called `` immaterialism ''  (  later referred to as `` subjective idealism `` by others  )  .
इस  theory denies the  अस्तित्व  of material substance and instead contends that familiar objects  जैसे   टेबल  and chairs are  तभी  ideas in the minds of  perceivers  ,  और  as a result  can  not  मौजूद  without being perceived  .
Thus , as Berkeley famously put it ,  लिये  physical objects `` esse  est   percipi   ''  ( `` to be is  to   be  perceived `` )  .
Berkeley is also known  लिये  his critique of abstraction , an important premise in  उसके  argument for  immaterialism  .
In 1709 , Berkeley published his first major work , , in which he discussed the limitations of human vision  और  advanced  the  theory that the proper objects of  sight  are not material objects , but  लाइट  and  रंग  .
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical  कार्य  A Treatise Concerning  the  Principles of Human Knowledge  in  1710 which , after its poor  रिसेप्शन  , he rewrote in dialogue  रूप  and published  अंतर्गत  the title  तीन   संवाद  between Hylas and  philonous   in  1713 .
In this book , Berkeley 's views were represented by  philonous  ( Greek  :   'प्रेमr   of   दिमाग  ' ) ,  जबकि  Hylas ( Greek  :  'matter ' ) embodies the Irish thinker’s opponents  ,   in  particular John  locke  .
Berkeley  argued  against Sir Isaac Newton 's doctrine of absolute space  ,  time and motion in De Motu  (  on  गति  )  ,  published 1721 .
His arguments were a precursor to the views of Mach  और  Einstein .
In 1732 , he published  alciphron  , a  ईसाई  apologetic against  the  free-thinkers , and in 1734 , he published  the  Analyst , an empiricist critique  of   the  foundations of  infinitesimal  calculus , which was influential in the  विकास  of mathematics .
His  पिछला  major  philosophical  work , Siris (  1744  ) , begins by advocating the medicinal use  of  tar water  ,  and then continues to discuss a wide  दायरा  of topics including science , philosophy , and  धर्मशास्त्र  .
ब्याज   in  Berkeley 's work increased  बाद  World War  ii  , because he tackled many of the  मुद्दे   of  paramount interest to  दर्शनशास्त्र  in the 20th century  ऐसे  as the  समस्याएं   of  perception  ,  the difference between  प्राथमिक  and secondary qualities , and  the   महत्व  of  भाषा  .
Qingdao ( )  ,  historically known as Tsingtao  ,  is a major  नगर  in eastern  शानदोंग   प्रांत  ,  पूर्वी  China , with a population  of  over 8.715 million (  2010  census ) .
Its built up area , made  of  6  शहरी  districts and  4   county-level  cities , is home to about  4,896,000  inhabitants in 2010 .
It borders Yantai  to   the  northeast , Weifang to the west and Rizhao to  the  southwest .
Qīng  (  ) in Chinese means `` green '' or `` lush '' , while dǎo  (  ) means ``  द्वीप  ''  .
Qingdao is administered at the sub-provincial level .
Lying across the Shandong Peninsula while looking out to the Yellow Sea , Qingdao  is  a major  seaport  , naval  आधार   ,  and industrial centre  .
It is also the site of the Tsingtao Brewery .
the  world 's longest sea bridge , the Qingdao Haiwan Bridge ,  कड़ी  the main urban area  of   चिंगदाओ   साथ  Huangdao district ,  straddling  the Jiaozhou Bay sea areas .
चिंगदाओ  is named China 's most livable city .
Mimivirus  is  a viral genus containing  a   सिंगल  identified species named Acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( APMV ) , or is a  समूह  of  phylogenetically  related large viruses ( designated  प्रायः   mimin  ) .
In colloquial speech , APMV is  अधिक  commonly  referred  to as  बस  `` mimivirus  ''  .
Until  अक्तूबर  2011 , when a larger virus Megavirus  chilensis  was described , it had the largest capsid diameter of all  ज्ञात  viruses .
Mimivirus  रै  a large  और  complex genome compared with  सबसे  other  वाइरस  .
Mimivirus , short for ``  mimicking  microbe '' , is  so  called to  प्रतिबिंबित  its  विशाल  size  और  apparent Gram-staining  गुण  .
The Mexican War of Independence ( 1810–1821 )  थी  an armed conflict between  the  people of  मैक्सिको   और  the  स्पेनी  colonial  अधिकारियों  which started on  सितंबर  16 ,  1810   .
The  गति  , which became known as  the  Mexican War of  स्वतंत्रता   ,   थी  led  by   mexican-born  Spaniards ,  mestizos   और  Amerindians who sought independence from Spain .
It started as an  आदर्शवादी   peasants  ' rebellion against their colonial masters  ,  but ended as an unlikely alliance between Mexican ex-royalists  और  Mexican guerrilla insurgents .
Crohn 's disease , also known as Crohn syndrome and regional  enteritis  , is  a  type of inflammatory bowel disease that may affect any  भाग  of the gastrointestinal tract from mouth  to  anus , causing  a  wide  किस्में  of symptoms .
It primarily causes abdominal  पीड़ा  ,  अतिसार  ( which may  be  bloody if inflammation  is  at its worst )  ,  vomiting ( can be continuous ) ,  or  weight loss , but may  भी  cause complications outside the gastrointestinal tract such as skin rashes , arthritis , inflammation  of  the eye  ,  tiredness , and lack of concentration .
crohn  's  बीमारी   is  caused by interactions between environmental , immunological and  बैक्टीरियल  factors in genetically susceptible individuals .
This results in a chronic inflammatory disorder , in which the body 's immune system attacks the gastrointestinal tract possibly directed at microbial antigens  .
crohn  's disease has wrongly been described  as  an autoimmune disease  in  the past ; recent investigators have  वर्णित   it  as an immune deficiency state .
There is  a  genetic association  साथ  Crohn 's  बीमारी  , primarily with variations of the NOD2  जीन  and its protein ,  जिससे  senses  बैक्टीरियल  cell walls .
सहोदर  of affected individuals are at higher risk  .
Males  और  females are  बराबर  affected .
Smokers  हैं  two times more likely to develop Crohn 's disease than  nonsmokers   .
Crohn 's disease affects between 400,000  और   600,000  people in North America .
Prevalence estimates  लिये  Northern Europe  have   ranged  from 27–48 per 100,000 .
crohn   's  disease tends to present initially in the teens and twenties , with another peak incidence  in   the   fifties  to seventies , although the disease can occur  at  any age .
There  is  no known  फार्मास्युटिकल  or surgical cure  लिये  Crohn 's disease .
उपचार  options are restricted to  controlling  symptoms  ,  maintaining  remission  , and preventing relapse  .
The disease was named after gastroenterologist  burrill  Bernard Crohn ,  जो  , in 1932 , together  साथ  two  अन्य  colleagues at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York , described a series of patients with inflammation of the terminal ileum , the area most commonly affected by the  बीमारी  .
This is  an  incomplete list of the tallest buildings and structures by  देश   .
The  सूची  directly  शामिल  the tallest buildings  और  structures for each country ,  और   जहाँ  appropriate  ,   it  also  अंक   to   अधिक  detailed  country-specific  lists .
Rough  और  Ready is  a  census-designated place in Nevada County , California , United States  .
It is  स्तिथ  west of Grass Valley ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , approximately 62 miles  (  100 km  )   इससे  Sacramento .
the  population was 963  at   the  2010 census  .
YouTube is  a  video-sharing website  ,   निर्मित  by three former PayPal employees in February 2005 , on which users can upload ,  दृश्य  and  share  videos  .
The company is based in San Bruno ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , and uses Adobe Flash  वीडियो   और  HTML5 technology to display  a  wide  किस्में   of  user-generated video  सामग्री  , including movie clips , TV clips  ,   और  music videos , as well as amateur content such  as  video blogging , short  असली  videos ,  और  educational  वीडियो  .
Most of the content on YouTube has been uploaded by  individuals  , although media corporations including CBS , the BBC  ,  Vevo , Hulu  ,  and other organizations offer some of their material via the site ,  as   भाग  of the YouTube partnership program  .
Unregistered users can  देखें   वीडियो  , while registered users can upload an unlimited number of videos .
Videos  माना  to contain potentially offensive content are available only to registered users at least  18  years  बूढ़ा  .
In November  2006  , YouTube , LLC was bought by Google for  us  $ 1.65 billion  ,   और  operates  as  a subsidiary of Google .
Sister Act is a  musical  written by Cheri Steinkellner and Bill Steinkellner with  अतिरिक्त   किताब  material  by   डगलस  Carter Beane  ,  with lyrics by Glenn Slater  और  music by Alan  menken  .
It is based on  the  hit 1992 film comedy of  the  same name .
The  2009  West End production was  उत्पादित  by Stage  entertainment  , Whoopi Goldberg , and Michael Reno for Sis Acts LLC  .
Goldberg is  भी  a producer of the 2011 Broadway  अनुकूलन  .
Microsoft DirectX  is  a collection of application programming interfaces ( APIs ) for  हैंडलिंग  tasks related to multimedia ,  विशेषकर  game programming and video ,  on  Microsoft platforms .
Originally ,  the  names of these APIs  सब  began with Direct  ,  such as Direct3D , DirectDraw , DirectMusic ,  directplay   ,  DirectSound  ,  and so forth  .
The name DirectX was  coined   as  shorthand term for  सब  of these APIs  (  the X  खड़ा  in for the particular API names ) and soon became  the  name  of  the collection .
When Microsoft later set out to  develop  a gaming console ,  the  X was used as  the   आधार   of   the  name Xbox to  indicate  that the console was based  on  DirectX technology .
the  X initial has been  carried  forward in the naming of  api  designed for the Xbox  ऐसे  as XInput and the Cross-platform Audio Creation Tool ( XACT )  ,  while the  डाइरेक्टएक्स  pattern has been continued for Windows  api   ऐसे  as Direct2D and DirectWrite .
Direct3D  (   the  3D graphics  api   भीतर  DirectX ) is widely used in the  विकास  of video  खेल   लिये  Microsoft Windows , Microsoft  एक्सबॉक्स  , Microsoft Xbox 360  और  some Sega Dreamcast  खेल  .
direct3d  is  भी  used by other software applications  लिये  visualization and graphics tasks  ऐसे  as CAD/CAM  अभियान्त्रिकी  .
As Direct3D  is  the  सबसे  widely publicized component of DirectX , it is common to see the names `` DirectX '' and `` Direct3D '' used interchangeably .
The DirectX software  विकास   kit  (  sdk  ) consists of runtime libraries in redistributable binary form , along  साथ  accompanying documentation and headers  लिये  use  in  coding .
Originally , the runtimes were only installed by games or explicitly  by  the user  .
Windows 95 did not launch with  डाइरेक्टएक्स  , but DirectX  थी  included  साथ  Windows 95 OEM Service  रिलीज  2 .
Windows 98  और  Windows NT 4.0  दोनो  shipped with DirectX , as has every version of Windows released since .
The SDK is  उपलब्धियाँ  as  a  free download .
जबकि   the  runtimes are proprietary , closed-source software , source code  is  provided for most of the  sdk  samples .
starting  with the release of Windows 8 Developer Preview , DirectX SDK has been integrated into Windows SDK .
Direct3D 9Ex ,  direct3d  10 , and  direct3d  11  हैं  only available for Windows Vista and newer because each of these new versions was built to depend  upon   the  new Windows  प्रदर्शक   ड्राइवर  Model that was  introduced  for Windows Vista .
The  नई  Vista/WDDM graphics  वास्तुकला  includes a  नई  video memory manager supporting virtualization of graphics hardware for various applications  और  services like the Desktop Window Manager .
quetzaltenango  , also commonly known by its indigenous  नाम  , Xelajú , or  अधिक  commonly , Xela  ,  is  the  second  largest  city of Guatemala .
it  is both the capital  of  Quetzaltenango Department and the municipal seat of  quetzaltenango  municipality .
it  has an  अनुमानित  population of 224,703  .
the  population  is  about  61  % indigenous or Amerindian , 34 %  मेस्टिज़ो  or ladino and 5 %  यूरोपीय  .
Quetzaltenango is located in  a  mountain valley  at  an elevation of 2,330 meters (  7,655  ft )  ऊपर  sea level at its lowest part .
it  may reach above  2,400  meters within the  नगर   .
The Municipality of Quetzaltenango consists of  an  area of .
Municipalities abutting the  नगरपालिका  of  quetzaltenango  include : Salcajá , Cantel , Almolonga , Zunil , El Palmar , Concepción Chiquirichapa , San Mateo , La Esperanza , Olintepeque  ,   और  San  आन्द्रेस  Xecul .
All these municipalities are part of the Department of Quetzaltenango  ,   मगर   सैन  Andrés Xecul which is a part of  the  Department  of   totonicapán  .
the  Epic of Gilgamesh , an  एपिक  poem from Mesopotamia , is amongst the earliest  surviving  works of literature  .
the  literary history of Gilgamesh begins  साथ  five  स्वतंत्र  Sumerian poems about 'Bilgamesh  '  ( Sumerian for  gilgamesh  ) , king of  uruk  .
चार  of these were used  as  source material for a combined epic in Akkadian .
This first combined epic , known as the ``  बूढ़ा  Babylonian '' version  ,  dates to the  18th   सदी  BC and  is  titled after  इसके  incipit , Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other  किंग्स  '' ) .
Only  a  few fragments of it  have  survived .
The later ``  मानक   babylonian  ''  संस्करण  dates from  the   13th   to  the 10th centuries BC and  bears  the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` He  जो  Saw the  गहन   ''   )   .
Fragments of approximately  दो  thirds of this  longer  , twelve-tablet version have been recovered .
Some of  the   बेहतरीन  copies were discovered in the library ruins  of  the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal  .
The story centers  on  a  दोस्ती  between  gilgamesh  and Enkidu .
Enkidu  is  a wild man created  by  the  देवताओं  as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract him from oppressing the people of Uruk .
Together  ,  they journey to the Cedar  पहाड़  to defeat Humbaba , its monstrous guardian .
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven , which  the  goddess Ishtar sends to  सजा   gilgamesh  for  spurning  her advances .
As a punishment for these actions ,  the   देवताओं  sentence Enkidu  to  death .
The second half of the  एपिक   focuses  on Gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's  मौत  , and his quest  लिये  immortality  .
in  order to learn the secret  of  eternal life , Gilgamesh undertakes a  long  and perilous  यात्रा  .
he  learns that `` The life  कि  you are seeking you  होगा  never find .
When the gods created man they allotted to him death , but  जीवन  they retained in their own keeping . ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version  of   the  epic , and then attributed to the immortal flood  नायिका  Utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of  the  epic  .
Nevertheless ,  gilgamesh  's fame lived on after his death , because of his great building projects ,  और   उसके  account  of  what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood .
The  स्टोरी  has been translated into many different languages , and Gilgamesh has since become  adapted  in works of  लोकप्रिय  fiction .
There are numerous  debates   over   जो  created  the   पहला  video game  ,   साथ  the answer depending  largely  on how video games are defined .
The evolution  of  video games represents a tangled web of several different  उद्योग  , including scientific , computer , arcade  ,  and consumer electronics .
The  ``  video '' in `` video game `` traditionally refers to a raster display device  .
With the popular catch  phrase  use of the term ``  वीडियो  game '' ,  the  term now implies  सब  display  प्रकार  , formats , and platforms .
Historians have  भी  sought  to  bypass the issue by instead using the more specific ``  डिजिटल  games '' descriptive  .
This term leaves out the earlier analog-based computer games .
इस  is a list of  best-selling  video game  franchises  that have sold or shipped at least 5 million copies  .
Unless otherwise  stated  ,  संख्याएँ  indicate worldwide  इकाई  sold ,  ordered  alphabetically whenever two  or  more list the same amount .
The  एक्सेप्शन  are the  ones  specifying shipments , which have lower  पूर्वता  than others  लिस्टिंग   बिक्री  .
Franchise sales include expansion packs even though they  हैं  not considered full video games .
For best-selling individual  वीडियो  games , see List of best-selling video games .
The sales figures given below do  नहीं   शामिल  arcade  खेल   बिक्री  , which can be found at List of highest-grossing arcade video  खेल  .
– This color indicates a sub-series of a  larger  video game franchise  .
This does not necessarily apply for series  कि  are  नहीं  video  game-based  .
Dorothy Ann Willis Richards (  सितंबर  1  ,  1933 – September 13 , 2006 ) was an American politician and the 45th  राज्यपाल  of Texas  .
She  पहला  came  to  national attention as the  राज्य  treasurer of Texas ,  जब  she delivered the keynote address at the 1988 Democratic National Convention .
Richards served as the  45th  Governor of Texas from 1991 to 1995 and was defeated for re-election  in  1994 by George W. Bush .
Ann Richards was the  दूसरी  female governor of Texas .
Data  निष्पादन  Prevention ( DEP ) is  a  security feature included in modern operating  प्रणालियों  .
It is known to be  उपलब्धियाँ  in Linux , Mac  os  X  ,   आईओएस  , Microsoft Windows and Android operating systems and is intended to prevent  an   अनुप्रयोग  or service  इससे   निष्पादित  code  इससे  a non-executable memory region .
This helps  prevent  certain  कारनामे  that store code via a buffer overflow , for example .
dep  runs in two modes :  hardware-enforced   dep  for  cpu  that can mark memory pages  as  nonexecutable , and software-enforced DEP  साथ  limited protection for CPUs that do not have hardware support .
software-enforced   dep  does not protect against  निष्पादन  of code in  आंकड़ा  pages  ,  but instead counters SEH  मिटाकर   ,  another  प्रकार  of attack  .
DEP was introduced on Linux  in  2004  (  kernel 2.6.8  )  , on Windows in 2004 with  खिड़कियाँ  XP Service Pack 2 , while  ठहराना  introduced DEP when they moved to x86 in 2006 .
Example illustration  of  two  आम  futanari variants
, is the Japanese word for hermaphroditism , which is  भी  used in a  broader   भाव   लिये  androgyny .
Beyond Japan the term is  प्रयुक्त  to describe a commonly pornographic  विधा  of computer games , comics and animations , which  शामिल  characters that show both primary sexual  विशेषताएँ  .
But in today  's  language  it  refers almost exclusively for characters who  have   an   overall  feminine  रूप  .
in   कि  case the term is also often abbreviated as futa ( s  )  ,  जिससे   is  occasionally also  प्रयुक्त  as term  लिये  the works itself .
Early CAPTCHAs such as these ,  उत्पन्न  by the EZ-Gimpy program , were  प्रयुक्त   on  Yahoo !
A  आधुनिक  CAPTCHA , rather than attempting to create a  distorted   पृष्ठभूमि  and high  स्तर   of  warping  on  the text , might focus on making segmentation difficult by adding an angled line .
Another way to make segmentation difficult is to  भीड  symbols together , as in Yahoo  !   's  current CAPTCHA format .
कुछ  CAPTCHAs try to utilize  the  ability of people to  देखिए  three-dimensional objects .
on  this  चित्र  , symbols are  drawn  with lines of different thickness to make  an  effect of extrusion .
A CAPTCHA ( )  is   a  type of challenge-response test used in  कम्प्यूटिंग   as  an attempt to ensure that the response is generated by a human being .
The  प्रक्रम  usually involves a computer asking a user  to  complete a simple test which  the  computer is able  to   ग्रेड  .
ये  tests are designed  to  be  आसान  for a computer to generate but difficult for a computer to solve  ,  but again easy  लिये  a human .
If a correct solution is received , it can be presumed to  have  been entered by a human .
A common type of CAPTCHA requires the user to type letters and/or digits  इससे   a  distorted  चित्र  that  appears  on the  स्क्रीन   .
Such tests are commonly used to prevent unwanted internet bots from accessing websites , since a  सामान्य  human can easily read a CAPTCHA , while the  bot  can not  प्रक्रम  the image letters  और  therefore ,  can  not answer  properly  , or at all .
हालांकि   सबसे  CAPTCHAs  हैं  letter pictures randomly generated  ,  many of them have become difficult even for a human to  पढ़ा  , so picture  captchas  were created  in  which a human is shown  a  simple  परीक्षण  to show a picture of a  निश्चित  animal ( given few animal pictures )  ,  which is  सरल  for  a  human being to process  ,  and therefore  आसान  to pick , while a bot can not  प्रक्रम  and solve the  सवाल  because although it can analyze  the  picture  ,  it can not  easily   अंदाज़ा  the animal  .
The term ``  captcha  '' was  coined  in 2000  by  Luis von  ahn  , Manuel Blum  ,  Nicholas J. Hopper , and John  langford   (  all of Carnegie  mellon  University ) .
It  is   an  acronym based on the  शब्द  `` capture '' and standing for ``  completely  Automated Public Turing test to tell  कंप्यूटर  and Humans Apart '' .
Carnegie Mellon University  attempted   to   ट्रेडमार्क  the  पद  on 15 October 2004 ,  लकिन   the  trademark  अनुप्रयोग   थी  abandoned  on   21  April 2008  .
A  captcha  is sometimes described as a reverse Turing  परीक्षण   ,  because it is administered by a machine and targeted at a human  ,  in contrast  to  the standard Turing test  कि  is  typically   administered  by a human and targeted at a machine .
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly known  in  English  as  Jacques  cousteau  ;  11  June 1910 – 25 June 1997 )  थी   a  French naval officer , explorer , conservationist , filmmaker ,  innovator   ,   वैज्ञानिक   ,  photographer ,  लेखक   और  researcher who studied the sea  और  all forms of life in water .
he  co-developed the Aqua-Lung  ,  pioneered marine conservation  और  was a member of the Académie française  .
KFC ( Kentucky  fried  Chicken ) is a fast  खाना  restaurant chain headquartered in Louisville  ,  Kentucky , United States , which specializes in  fried   मुर्गा  .
An  ``  American icon '' , it is the world 's second largest restaurant  कड़ी  overall  (   as  measured  by  sales )  बाद  McDonald 's ,  साथ  over 18,000 outlets in 120  देशों  and territories  .
The company is a subsidiary of  यम   !
Brands ,  a  restaurant company  जिससे   भी  owns  पिज़्ज़ा  Hut and Taco Bell .
KFC was  संस्थापित  by Harland Sanders , who began selling fried  मुर्गा  from  उसके  roadside restaurant in Corbin , Kentucky during the Great Depression .
Sanders was one  of  the  पहला  people to  देखिए   the  potential of the restaurant franchising  अवधारणा  , with the first  ``   केंटकी  Fried  मुर्गा  ''  मताधिकार  opening in Utah in 1952 .
The franchise popularized chicken  in   the  fast  खाना  industry , thereby diversifying the market and challenging the dominance of the hamburger .
विपणन   खुद  as `` Colonel Sanders ''  ,  he became  a  legendary figure of American cultural history , and  उसके  image is still prominently used in KFC branding .
The  कम्पनी  's rapid expansion saw it grow  too  large for Sanders to manage , and in 1964  he  sold  the  company to  a   समूह  of investors  led  by  जॉन  Y  .  Brown , Jr. and Jack Massey .
KFC was one  of  the first fast food chains to expand internationally  ,  opening outlets in England , Mexico  और  Puerto Rico by the  mid-1960s  .
throughout  the 1970s  और  1980s , KFC experienced mixed  सौभाग्य   domestically   ,  as it  गई  through  a  series of  कॉरपोरेट  owners who had little or no experience in  the   रेस्तरां  business .
In  the  early  1970s  , KFC was  बेची  to the spirits firm Heublein ,  जो  were  लिया  over by the R.J. Reynolds  खाना  and tobacco conglomerate , who sold the chain to PepsiCo .
The chain continued to expand overseas however , and in 1987 KFC became the first Western restaurant chain to  खोलें  in China .
The chain has since expanded  rapidly   in  China ,  और  the country is now the company 's most  लाभप्रद  market .
PepsiCo spun off its restaurants division as  tricon  Global Restaurants , which later changed its name to Yum !
Brands .
KFC primarily sells fried chicken pieces and variations such as chicken  सैंडविच  and wraps , salads and side dishes such as French fries and coleslaw , desserts and  नरम  drinks ,  प्रायः  supplied by  पेप्सिको  .
Its  सबसे  famous product  is  pressure fried chicken pieces  ,  seasoned with Sanders ' `` Original Recipe '' of 11 herbs  और  spices  .
the  exact  प्रकृति  of these ingredients is unknown , and represents a notable trade  रहस्य  .
Larger  portions  of fried chicken are served in a distinctive cardboard `` bucket '' , which has  become  a signature  of  the  कड़ी  since  होने  introduced by franchisee  पीट  Harman .
KFC is famous for  the  slogan `` finger lickin ' good ''  ,   जिससे  has since  महरूम  replaced by  ``  Nobody does chicken like KFC '' and  ``  So  शुभ  '' .
Cnidaria  (  with  a  silent c ) or Coelenterata  is  a phylum containing over 10,000  प्रजाति   of  animals found exclusively in  जलीय  and mostly marine environments .
Their distinguishing feature is cnidocytes , specialized cells that  वे  use mainly  लिये   capturing  prey .
Their bodies  consist   of  mesoglea ,  a   non-living  jelly-like substance , sandwiched between two layers of  epithelium  that  हैं  mostly one cell thick .
They have two basic body forms  :  swimming medusae  और  sessile polyps  ,   दोनो  of which are radially symmetrical with mouths surrounded  by  tentacles  कि   भालू   cnidocytes  .
Both forms have a single orifice and  देह  cavity that are used for digestion and  श्वसन   .
Many cnidarian species produce colonies that are single organisms composed of medusa-like  or   polyp-like  zooids , or both .
Cnidarians ' activities are coordinated by a decentralized nerve net and simple  receptors  .
Several  free-swimming   cubozoa  and Scyphozoa possess  balance-sensing  statocysts , and  कुछ   have  simple eyes  .
Not  सब  cnidarians reproduce sexually  .
Many have complex lifecycles with  अलैंगिक  polyp stages and sexual medusae , but some  omit  either the polyp or  the  medusa stage .
Cnidarians were  लिये  a long time grouped with Ctenophores in  the  phylum  coelenterata  , but increasing awareness of  उनके  differences  caused  them to  be   लगाई  in separate phyla  .
cnidarians  are  वर्गीकृत  into four main groups : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa (  समुद्र   anemones  ,  corals  ,  समुद्र   पेन   )  ; swimming Scyphozoa ( jellyfish  )  ; Cubozoa ( box jellies ) ; and Hydrozoa ,  a  diverse group  कि  includes all the  freshwater   cnidarians  as well as many  समुद्री  forms , and has both sessile members such as Hydra and  औपनिवेशिक  swimmers such  as  the Portuguese Man o  '  War  .
Staurozoa have  recently  been recognised  as  a class in their own  सही  rather than a sub-group of Scyphozoa , and there is debate about whether Myxozoa and Polypodiozoa are cnidarians or closer to  bilaterians  (  अधिक  complex  पशु  ) .
सबसे  cnidarians prey  on  organisms ranging in size from plankton to animals several times larger  than  themselves ,  लकिन  many obtain much of their nutrition from endosymbiotic algae , and a few are parasites .
Many are  preyed  upon  by   अन्य  animals including starfish  ,  sea slugs , fish  और  turtles .
Coral reefs  ,  whose polyps are rich in endosymbiotic  शैवाल  , support some  of  the world 's  सबसे  productive ecosystems  ,  and  protect  vegetation  in   tidal  zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides .
While corals  हैं  almost  entirely  restricted to warm , shallow marine waters ,  अन्य  cnidarians live in  the   गहराइयों   ,  in polar seas and in freshwater  .
Fossil cnidarians  have  been found in rocks  formed  about , and other fossils show that corals may have been  उपस्थित  shortly before and diversified a few million  सालो   बाद  .
जीवाश्मों  of cnidarians that do  नहीं   निर्माण  mineralized structures are very  विरल   .
Scientists currently think that cnidarians  ,  ctenophores and bilaterians are  अधिक  closely  सम्बन्धित  to calcareous sponges than these are to other sponges , and that anthozoans  हैं  the evolutionary  ``  aunts ''  or  ``  बहनों  '' of other  cnidarians  , and the most closely related  to  bilaterians .
हाल   analyses   have  concluded that  cnidarians  , although considered  अधिक  ``  आदिम  ''  than  bilaterians , have a wider range of genes  .
the   एज़टेक  Pyramid at St. Cecilia Acatitlan  ,  Mexico  राज्य  .
Aztec jade mask depicting the god Xipe  totec  .
विशाल  ceramic statue of an Aztec Eagle Warrior
Aztec cosmogram in the pre-Hispanic Codex Fejérváry-Mayer  -   the  fire  परमेश्वर   xiuhtecuhtli  is in  the   बीच  .
the  Aztec people were certain  जातीय  groups of central Mexico , particularly those groups who spoke  the  Nahuatl language and who  वर्चस्व  large parts of Mesoamerica  इससे  the 14th  to  16th centuries .
The Nahuatl words  aztecatl  (  एकवचन   )  and aztecah ( plural ) mean `` people from Aztlan `` ,  a   पौराणिक  place for the Nahuatl-speaking culture of  the  time , and later adopted as the word to define  the  Mexica people  .
प्रायः  the term `` Aztec '' refers exclusively to the Mexica people of Tenochtitlan  (  now the  स्थान   of  Mexico City ) , situated  on  an island in Lake Texcoco , who  referred  to themselves as Mexica  tenochca  or  cōlhuah   mexica  .
Sometimes the term also  शामिल   the  inhabitants of Tenochtitlan 's two principal allied city-states , the Acolhuas of  texcoco   और  the Tepanecs of Tlacopan ,  जो  together with the  mexica  formed  the   एज़टेक  Triple Alliance which controlled what is often known  as  ``  the   एज़टेक  Empire '' .
In other contexts , Aztec may  refer  to all the  विभिन्न  city  राज्य  and their peoples , who  साझा  large parts of  उनके   जातीय   इतिहास  and cultural  traits  with the Mexica , Acolhua  और  Tepanecs ,  और  who often  भी  used  the  Nahuatl language as a lingua franca .
in   इस  meaning  it   is  possible  to  talk  परिचय   an   एज़टेक   सभ्यता   सहित  all the particular cultural  पैटर्न  common for most of  the  peoples  inhabiting  Central Mexico in the late postclassic  काल  .
From  the  13th century , the  घाटी  of Mexico was the heart  of  Aztec civilization :  यहाँ  the capital of the Aztec Triple Alliance , the city of  tenochtitlan  ,  थी  built upon raised islets in Lake Texcoco .
The Triple Alliance formed a tributary empire expanding  इसके  political hegemony far beyond  the  Valley of Mexico , conquering other  नगर  states throughout Mesoamerica .
At its pinnacle , Aztec culture  था  rich and complex mythological  और  religious traditions , as  खूब  as reaching remarkable architectural  और  artistic  accomplishments   .
in  1521 Hernán  cortés  , along with a large number of  नावातल  speaking indigenous  allies   ,  conquered Tenochtitlan and defeated the Aztec Triple Alliance  अंतर्गत  the leadership of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma  ii  .
Subsequently the Spanish founded the  नई  settlement of Mexico City on  the  site  of  the ruined Aztec capital ,  इससे   जहाँ  they  proceeded  with the process of colonizing Central  अमेरिका  .
Aztec  संस्कृति  and history  is  primarily known through archaeological evidence found in excavations such as that  of  the renowned Templo Mayor in Mexico City ; from indigenous  छाल  paper codices  ;  from eyewitness accounts by Spanish conquistadors  ऐसे   as  Hernán Cortés and Bernal Díaz del  कैस्टिलो  ; and especially from 16th  और  17th century descriptions of Aztec culture  और  history written by Spanish  clergymen  and literate  aztecs  in the Spanish or Nahuatl language , such as the famous Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan  भिक्षु  Bernardino de Sahagún with  the  help of  स्वदेशी   एज़टेक  informants .
Anderson Hays  कूपर  ( born June 3 , 1967 ) is an American journalist , author , and television personality  .
he   is  the  प्राथमिक  anchor  of   the  CNN news show Anderson Cooper 360° .
The program is normally  ब्रॉडकास्ट  live  इससे  a New  यॉर्क  City studio ; however  ,   कूपर  often broadcasts live on location for  तोड़कर  news stories .
As of September  2011  , he also serves as host of his own eponymous syndicated  दिन   बात  show , Anderson Live ,  जिससे  will be cancelled at the end  of  the second season  .
A plot of  a   सामान्य  distribution ( or  bell-shaped  curve ) where each band has a width  of   1  standard deviation – See also  :  68-95-99.7 rule
संचयी   संभाव्यता  of a normal  वितरण  with expected  मान  0 and standard deviation 1 .
In  आंकडे   और   संभाव्यता  theory , standard deviation (  represented   by  the symbol sigma , σ  )  shows how much  विभिन्नता  or dispersion exists from the average  (  mean ) ,  or  expected  मान   .
a   कम  standard  विचलन  indicates that the data points tend to be very close to the  औसत  ; high standard deviation indicates that the data points are spread out over a  विशाल  range of values .
The standard  विचलन   of  a random variable  ,  statistical population ,  आंकड़ा  set ,  or  probability  वितरण   is  the square root of  इसके   variance  .
It is algebraically simpler though practically less robust  than  the average  निरपेक्ष  deviation .
A useful property of standard deviation is that ,  नापसंद  variance  ,  it is expressed  in  the same units  as   the  data  .
Note  ,  however , that for measurements with percentage as unit ,  the   मानक  deviation will have percentage points as unit .
in  addition  to  expressing the variability of a population , standard  विचलन  is commonly used to measure confidence in statistical  conclusions  .
For  उदाहरण  , the margin of  गलती  in polling data is determined by calculating the expected standard deviation  in  the results if the same  पोल  were to be conducted  अनेक  times .
the  reported margin of error is  typically  about twice the standard deviation ­– the radius of a 95 percent confidence interval .
in  science  ,  researchers commonly report the standard  विचलन  of experimental data  ,   और  only effects  कि  fall far outside the range of standard deviation  हैं   माना  statistically significant – normal random error or variation in  the   माप  is in this  रास्ता   विशिष्ट  from causal variation .
Standard deviation is  भी  important  in  finance , where the  मानक  deviation  on  the rate of return on an investment is a measure of the  volatility  of the investment .
When only a sample of data from a  जनसांख्यिकी  is available ,  the  standard  विचलन   of  the  जनसांख्यिकी  can be estimated by  a  modified  मात्रा  called  the  `` sample standard deviation ''  .
जब  the sample is the entire  जनसांख्यिकी  , its  unmodified   मानक  deviation is called  the   ``  population standard deviation  ''  .
ulluco  (  u  :  ju   :   kɔ  : )  (  Ullucus tuberosus ) is a plant  grown   primarily  as a  रूट  vegetable  ,  secondarily as a leaf  सब्ज़ी  .
The ulluco  is  one of the most  widely   grown   और  economically important root crops in the Andean region of  दक्षिण  America , second only to  the  potato  .
It is known there  साथ   the  common name of papa lisa , but also by the regional names melloco ( Ecuador ) , olluco ( Peru )  ,  chugua ( Colombia  )   or  ruba ( Venezuela ) , among others .
the   पत्ता  and the tuber are edible , similar to spinach and the potato  ,  respectively .
They are known to contain high levels of protein , calcium  ,   और  carotene .
Papalisa  यहूद  used by the  incas  prior to arrival  of  Europeans in South America  .
ulluco  tubers are marketed as `` Earth Gems '' in New  जीलैंड   ,  by  halfords   exotic  Produce .
ulluco  tubers in New Zealand
An April  24  ,  1851  poster warning the ``  रंगीन  people of Boston  ''   परिचय  policemen acting  as  slave  catchers  .
The Fugitive Slave Law or Fugitive Slave Act was passed by the United States Congress on September 18 , 1850 , as part of the Compromise of  1850  between Southern slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers .
This  थी  one  of   the   सबसे  controversial acts of  the   1850   सुलह  and heightened Northern fears of a `` slave power conspiracy '' .
It declared that all runaway slaves were ,  upon  capture , to be  लौटे   to  their masters  .
Abolitionists  nicknamed   it  the ``  bloodhound   विधि  '' for the dogs that were used  to  track down runaway  स्लेव   .
Frank Joseph Pallone , Jr.  (  born October 30 , 1951 ) is the  u.S.  Representative  लिये  , serving since  1993  .
He is a member of the Democratic Party  .
he  previously represented the 3rd district from 1988 to 1993 .
Trin-i-tee  5:7  is a  इन्जील  duo from New Orleans ,  louisiana   in  the United States .
The group  थी  marketed as a gospel alternative to  r  & B  लड़की  groups  ऐसे   as  Destiny 's Child and TLC .
Trin-i-tee  5:7   रै  sold over 2.5 million albums .
In 1998  ,  the group released their first  एल्बम   हकदार   trin-i-tee  5:7  जिससे   डेब्यू  at # 1 on the Top  इन्जील   चार्ट  .
the  album featured the songs `` God  's   अनुग्रह  '' and the cover  सोंग  `` Oh !
Mary Do  n't  You Weep '' .
The album later became certified gold .
in  1999 , Terri Brown left the group and  थी   बाद  replaced by singer Adrian Anderson  .
During that year , the group  अंकित  and released their second  एल्बम   ,  Spiritual Love .
the  album became the  समूह  's second #  1  album  on   the   शीर्ष  Gospel  चार्ट  .
The album contained the  singles  `` Put  अपना  Hands '' and  ``  My  देह   ''  .
In  2002  , the group released their third album The Kiss which debuted at #  2  on the Top Gospel charts .
In  2007   ,   the  group left GospoCentric Records and signed a record deal  साथ  Spirit Rising  म्यूज़िक  .
in  late 2007 , Trin-i-tee 5:7 released their fifth album  t57  , which featured the top ten gospel single `` Listen '' .
T57 charted  #  2 on  the  Top Gospel Albums , # 5 on the Top Christian  चार्ट  , and  #  12 on the Top R  &  B  चार्ट   .
The United States federal earned income tax credit  or  earned income credit ( EITC  or  EIC ) is a refundable tax credit for low-  और  medium-income individuals and couples , primarily for  those  who have qualifying children  .
When the credit  exceeds  the amount of  कर  owed , it results in a tax refund to those who claim the credit  .
इस  credit  is  provided  to  offset the  बोझ  of social security taxes and also to  प्रचार  an incentive to work .
In order  लिये  a person or couple to claim one  or  more persons as their qualifying child ( ren )  ,  the age , relationship , and shared residency requirements  जरूर  be met , as well as some other  आवश्यकताएँ  .
U.S.  कर   फ़ॉर्म  1040EZ , 1040A , or  1040  can be used to  अर्जी   eic  without qualifying children .
To claim the credit with  qualifying  children  ,  1040A or 1040 must be used , as well as  attaching   अनुसूची  EIC .
EIC phases in slowly , has a medium-length plateau , and then phases out more  धीरे  than it phased in .
Since the credit phases out at 21  %  ( for two children and for three or more  qualilfying  children  )  or  16  %  (  for one qualifying child ) , it  is   सदा  preferable to have one more dollar  of  actual salary or wages ( although technically ,  चूंकि  the  eic  table moves by fifty  डालर  increments  ,   it   's  always preferable to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ) .
For tax year 2011 , the maximum EIC for a single  व्यक्ति  or  युगल  filing without  qualifying  children  थी   $   464  .
the  maximum  eic  with one qualifying child was $ 3,094 , with  दो  children was $ 5,112 , and with three or more qualifying children was $ 5,751 .
These  amounts  are indexed  annually   लिये  inflation .
the  earned income tax credit  रै  been part of  राजनैतिक   debates  in the  संयुक्त  States  regarding  whether raising  the  minimum wage  or   increasing   eic  will better address a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs .
The following is a list  of  halftime shows held at the National Football  लीग  's championship game  ,  the Super Bowl .
जबकि   मध्यांतर  shows are a tradition  दौरान  football games at all levels of competition  ,  the  सुपर  Bowl halftime show represents a fundamental link to pop culture , which helps  broaden  the  टेलीविज़न   दर्शक   और  nationwide  ब्याज  .
In most years  चूंकि   the  mid-1980s , the halftime  दिखाएँ  of  the   सुपर   कटोरी  has featured  लोकप्रिय  recording artists and  अन्य  well-known celebrities .
It has measurably increased  टेलीविज़न  viewers  दौरान  and after the halftime show .
The  प्रदर्शन  is regarded one  of   the  most-watched  कार्यक्रम  in American television annually with over 100 million viewers in  the  United States alone .
Musical  जाति  over  the  years have represented a  व्यापक  range of music  प्रकार  , including pop , rock , classic rock  ,  country , hip hop  ,  rap  ,  blues , and  आत्मा  .
In  कुछ  years , short skits  or   नाटक  scenes are acted out on a  स्टेज  .
The performance group  up   साथ  People  रै  performed at the most Super Bowl halftime shows , starring in four during the 1970s and 1980s .
According to Nielsen ratings , Super Bowl XLVI halftime show headlined by  मैडोना  in 2012 remains the most-watched halftime  दिखाएँ  in  इतिहास  , with 114 million viewers  or  about  3  million more  than   the  actual  खेल  .
beyonce  's 2013 halftime show performance  थी   the  second most viewed show  in   इतिहास  .
It is listed  on   the   गिनीज   संसार   रिकॉर्ड   as  the largest TV  दर्शक  for  a   सुपर   कटोरी  half-time  प्रदर्शन  .
International  मेन  's Day (  imd  ) is an annual  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  event celebrated  on  19th November .
उदघाटन  in 1999 in Trinidad and Tobago  ,  the  दिन  and its events find  support  from a variety of individuals and groups in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , the  caribbean  , North America , Asia , Europe and  अफ़्रीकी  .
बोलना  on  निमित्त  of  युनेस्को  , Director  of   महिलाओं  and  संस्कृति  of Peace Ingeborg  breines  said of IMD , `` This is an  बेहतरीन  idea and would  दे   कुछ  gender balance  .  ''
She added  कि  UNESCO was looking  आगे   to  cooperating with the organizers  .
The objectives of celebrating an International  मेन  's Day include focusing on  मेन  's  और  boys ' health  ,   improving   लिंग  relations  ,  promoting gender  समता  , and highlighting positive male role models  .
It  is  an occasion to highlight discrimination against men and boys and  to  celebrate their achievements and  योगदान  , in particular for their contributions  to   जातियाँ  , family  ,  marriage , and child care .
the  broader and ultimate  उद्देश्य  of the event is to promote basic  humanitarian  values  .
International Men  's  Day is celebrated in  over  60  देशों  , including Trinidad and Tobago , Jamaica  ,  Australia , India , China ,  संयुक्त  States , Romania , Singapore , Malta , United Kingdom , South Africa  ,  Tanzania , Zimbabwe , Botswana , Seychelles , Burundi ,  हंगेरियाई  , Ireland , Isle of Man , Ghana , Canada , Denmark , Norway  ,  Austria , Bosnia and  हर्ज़ेगोविना  , Ukraine  ,  France , Italy , Pakistan  ,  Cuba , Antigua and Barbuda ,  st.  Kitts and  नेविस  , St. Lucia , Grenada and  केमन   आइलैंड्स  , on 19  नवम्बर  , and global support for the  जश्न  is broad .
Valley Village ParkValley
Village is a district in the San Fernando Valley region  of  Los Angeles , California .
The median age of its population , at 36 , is `` old for the city of Los  एंजिल्स  . '' and its average household size  of   दो  people is low , compared  to  other parts of the city  .
developmental  psychology is  the  scientific study of changes that  occur  in human  beings  over the course of their life span  .
Originally concerned with infants and  children  ,  the  field has  विस्तारित   to  include adolescence  ,  adult development  ,   वृद्धावस्था   ,  and the entire life span .
This field examines change across  a  broad range of topics including motor skills and  अन्य  psycho-physiological  प्रक्रियाओं  ; cognitive development involving areas such as problem solving  ,   moral  understanding , and conceptual understanding ; language  अधिग्रहण  ; social , personality , and  emotional  development ;  और  self-concept and  पहचान   गठन  .
Developmental psychology includes issues such as the extent to  जिससे  development occurs  through   the  gradual accumulation of knowledge versus stage-like  विकास  , or the extent  to  which  children  are born with innate  दिमागी   structures   बनाम  learning  through  experience .
Many researchers are interested in the  बातचीत   between  personal characteristics , the individual 's behavior , and environmental  कारकों  including social context , and their impact  on  development ;  अन्य  take a  अधिक  narrowly-focused approach .
Developmental psychology  informs  several applied fields , including : educational psychology , child psychopathology  ,  and  forensic  developmental psychology .
Developmental psychology  complements  several other basic  शोध   फ़ील्ड   in  psychology including social psychology , cognitive psychology  ,  ecological psychology , and comparative psychology  .
जोसेफ   माइकल   ``  Joey '' Stivic is  a  fictional character who first  appeared  on the 1970s American sitcom All in the  परिवार  .
Joey Stivic was the son and only  चाइल्ड   of  Mike Stivic ( played  by  Rob Reiner ) and Gloria Stivic ( played  by   सैली  Struthers ) ,  और   the  grandson of Archie Bunker ( Carroll O'Connor )  और  Edith Bunker ( Jean Stapleton ) .
The character first  appeared   as  a newborn baby in a two-part episode  of  All in the Family which aired in December 1975 .
After  अनेक   दिखावे  on All in the Family until Reiner and Struthers  बाएँ  the  श्रेणी  in 1978  (  by that time , Joey  था  been  निभाई  most often by  प्रत्यावर्ती  twins Jason and Justin Draeger ) ,  the   जॉय  Stivic character  अगला  appeared  on  the All  in   the  Family spin-off series (  कुछ  call it a  continuation  of  the  original  )  Archie Bunker 's Place in a guest  रूप   in  the November 1979 episode `` Thanksgiving Reunion .  ''
In this instance , the character was played by child actor Dick  billingsley  and  थी  appropriately pre-school age .
With Gloria now  अलग  from Mike , she returned to Archie Bunker 's Place with Joey in the  फ़रवरी  1982 episode `` Gloria Comes Home . ''
In this episode , Joey  थी  played by Christopher Johnston .
Joey  stivic  was a regular  अक्षर  on the All in the Family spin-off series Gloria in 1982  और  1983 .
On this  श्रेणी   ,  in which the  now-divorced  Gloria Bunker character had moved  to   upstate  New York in order  to  work as  an   सहायक   veterinarian   ,  the  भाग  of  जॉय  Stivic was played by  ten-year-old  actor Christian Jacobs .
After Gloria was canceled in 1983 , Joey Stivic disappeared  इससे  prime time television for 11 years , until the character made one  पिछला  appearance on 704 Hauser , a short-lived 1994 series  परिचय   a   ब्लैक  family who had  स्थानांतरित   into  the old Bunker  घर   ,  years after  बंकर  had sold it .
in  this appearance  ,   the   जॉय  Stivic character was played by Casey Siemaszko  ,  an actor born  in  1961 ( 14 years before Joey Stivic 's fictional birth  )  .
In  1976   the  Ideal Toy Company released a 14-inch `` Joey Stivic doll '' ( called  ``   आर्ची   बंकर  's  पोता  '' )  जिससे  was billed as the `` first anatomically correct male doll .  ''
The doll inspired mild controversy  at  the time  ,  and is a collectors ' item today .
the  2011 Rose  कटोरी  was the 97th edition of  the  annual  कटोरी  game played on January 1 , 2011  ,  as part of  the  2010 college football  ऋतु   .
Played in  pasadena  ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ,  the TCU Horned Frogs  of  the Mountain West Conference defeated the  विस्कॉन्सिन   badgers  of the Big Ten Conference by a  स्कोर  of 21 –  19  .
The Pasadena Tournament of Roses Association was the organizer of the  खेल  .
vizio  Inc. was the corporate sponsor  और  the game was officially named ``  the   रोज़  Bowl Game presented by Vizio '' .
इस  game  चिह्नित  the first time a team from a non-Automatic Qualifying Conference played in , and  जीती  , the Rose Bowl in its 97 years .
The  प्रतियोगिता  was broadcast  on   केबल  television station ESPN  साथ  a radio broadcast on ESPN Radio and  xm  Satellite Radio and ESPN3  स्ट्रीमिंग  video  over  the internet .
Coverage  began  at 1:30  pm  ( PST  )  with kickoff at 2:10 PM ( PST  )  .
This marked the first time that the  खेल  was not broadcast nationally `` over-the-air '' ( terrestrial television ) since the games  prior  to the 1952 Rose  कटोरी   ,  which was the first nationally televised college football game .
The Rose Bowl  खेल  , themed Building  सपनो   ,  Friendships , & Memories , was a  contractual  sell-out  ,  with 64,500 tickets  आबंटित  to the  participating  teams and conferences .
Ticket prices for all seats in the Rose  कटोरी  are  सूचीबद्ध   at  $ 145 .
The remaining  टिकटें  went to the Tournament of Roses members , sponsors , City of Pasadena residents , and  the   सामान्य  public .
The  रोज़  Bowl  स्टेडियम  capacity is listed at approximately 91,000  .
the  Declaration  of  Independence  is  a statement adopted by  the   महाद्वीपीय   कॉंग्रेस  on July 4 , 1776  ,  which announced that the  तेरह  American colonies , then at war  साथ  Great Britain , regarded themselves as independent states , and no longer a part of the  अंग्रेजों   साम्राज्य  .
बजाय  they now formed a new  nation—the   संयुक्त  States  of  America .
John Adams was  a   नेता  in pushing  लिये  independence , which was unanimously approved on  जुलाई  2 .
A  कमेटी  had already  drafted  the formal declaration , to  be  ready when  कॉंग्रेस  voted  on  independence .
Adams persuaded the committee to select  थामस  Jefferson to compose the original draft of the document  ,  which congress would edit to produce the final version .
the  Declaration  थी  ultimately a formal explanation of  क्यों  Congress had voted on July 2 to declare independence from  ग्रेट   ब्रिटेन  , more than a year after the  outbreak  of the American Revolutionary War .
The national birthday , the Independence Day is celebrated on July 4 , although  एडम्स  wanted July 2 .
After ratifying the text on July  4  , Congress issued the Declaration of Independence in several forms .
It was initially published  as   the   मुद्रित   डनलप  broadside that was widely distributed  और  read  to  the public  .
The  सबसे   प्रसिद्ध  version of the Declaration , a signed  नक़ल   कि   is  popularly  regarded  as the Declaration of  स्वतंत्रता  ,  is  displayed at  the  National  अभिलेख  in Washington , D.C  .
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved on July 4 , the date of its signing was August 2 .
The  असली  July 4 United States Declaration of Independence  पाण्डुलिपि  was  खोया   जबकि  all other copies have been derived from  इस  original  दस्तावेज़  .
The  स्त्रोत  and interpretation of the Declaration have  महरूम  the subject of  much  scholarly inquiry .
The Declaration  जायज  the independence of the United States by  लिस्टिंग  colonial grievances against King George III , and by asserting certain natural  और  legal rights , including a  सही   of  revolution .
having   परोसा  its original  purpose  in announcing independence  ,  the  टेक्स्ट  of the Declaration was initially ignored after the American Revolution .
Since then  ,  it has come to  be  considered  a   प्रमुख  statement  on  human rights , particularly its second sentence:
We hold  ये  truths to  be  self-evident , that all men are created  बराबर  , that  वे  are endowed by  उनके  Creator  साथ  certain unalienable Rights , that among these are Life ,  स्वतंत्रता  and the pursuit of  सुख  .
This has been called `` one of  the  best-known sentences  in  the  अंग्रेज़ी  language  ''  , containing  ``  the most  potent  and consequential words  in   अमरीकी   इतिहास  . ''
the  passage came to represent a moral standard to which the United  राज्य   चाहिए  strive  .
इस  view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln ,  जो  considered the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy ,  और  argued that the  घोषणा  is a statement of principles through  जिससे  the United States Constitution should  be  interpreted .
It  रै   प्रेरित  work  लिये  the rights of marginalized people throughout the  संसार  .
Chitty Chitty Bang Bang is  a  1968 British  musical  film loosely based on Ian Fleming 's  अनोखा  .
The film 's script is by Roald  dahl  and Ken  ह्यूजेस   और  its songs by the Sherman  भाइयो  .
It  सितारों  Dick  वैन  Dyke as Caractacus Potts and Sally Ann Howes as  truly  Scrumptious .
The  फिल्मी  was directed by Ken  ह्यूजेस  and produced by Albert R. Broccoli ( co-producer of the James Bond series of films , also  आधारित   on  Fleming 's novels ) .
John Stears supervised the special effects .
Irwin Kostal supervised and conducted the music , while the musical  संख्याएँ   यहूद  staged by Marc  breaux   और  Dee  dee  Wood .
A region is arid when it is characterized by  a  severe lack of available water , to the extent of hindering or preventing the growth and  विकास  of plant and animal life .
Environments subject  to  arid climates tend  to   कमी  vegetation and  हैं  called xeric or desertic .
Most  ``   arid   ''  climates  घेर  the equator ; these places include most of  अफ़्रीकी   और  parts of South America and Central  अमेरिका   .
Cancer ( ♋ ) is an  astrological  sign  ,  which is  संबद्ध  with the constellation  कर्कट  .
It spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac  ,  between  90  and  125.25   उपाधि   of  celestial longitude , which the Sun transits this area on average between June 22 to July 22 each year .
और   अंतर्गत   the   sidereal  zodiac , it is currently  इससे  July 21 to  अगस्त  9 .
The  संयुक्त  States presidential election  of  1960  थी  the 44th  quadrennial   अध्यक्षीय  election , held on Tuesday , November 8 , 1960  .
The Republican Party nominated incumbent  vice-president  Richard Nixon  ,  while the  लोकतांत्रिक  Party nominated John F. Kennedy , Senator from Massachusetts .
the  incumbent President  ,  Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower ,  थी   नहीं  eligible for re-election after serving  the  maximum two terms allowed  by  the Twenty-second Amendment .
कैनेडी   थी  elected with a lead of  112,827  votes ,  or  0.17 % of the popular vote ,  giving  him a victory of 303 to 219  in  the Electoral College , the closest  चूंकि  1916 .
This was the first election  in  which all fifty of the current United  राज्य  participated .
A number of factors explain why the election was so  बंद  .
Kennedy gained since there was  an   आर्थिक  recession which  ठेस   the  incumbent Republican , and  he  had the advantage of 17 million more  पंजीकृत  Democrats  than  Republicans .
Furthermore  ,  the new  मत  that Kennedy gained among Catholics almost  neutralized  the new votes  निक्सन  gained among  protestants   .
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched Nixon  's  .
In the end , Nixon 's emphasis on his experience carried  छोटी   वज़न  , and he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states instead of  concentrating  on the swing  राज्य   .
Kennedy  प्रयुक्त  his large , well-funded campaign organization to  जीत  the nomination , secure endorsements ,  और  , with the  सहायता  of  the  last of the big-city  bosses  , to get out the vote in the big cities  .
He relied on running  mate  Lyndon B. Johnson to hold  the  South and used television effectively .
This election is notable as being the first time  in  U.S. history that two sitting U.S . Senators ( Kennedy  और   जॉनसन  ) were elected as president and  vice-president  , a phenomenon  कि  has  महरूम  repeated  एकबार  , by Barack  ओबामा  and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases , the  अध्यक्ष   थी  the  younger  , more junior  सीनेटर  ) .
Sherwood is  a  city in Washington County ,  ऑरेगॉन  , United States .
Located  in   the  southeast corner of the county , it is a residential community in the  tualatin   घाटी  southwest  of  Portland  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी   थी  11,791 at the  2000  census .
According to the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  , the  जनसांख्यिकी  was 18,205 residents .
indirectly  named for  the  Sherwood Forest  in  England  ,  it was first incorporated in 1893 as a town .
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an Act of the U.S. Congress that was signed into  विधि  by President George W. Bush on October 26 , 2001  .
The  शीर्षक   of  the act is a ten letter acronym ( USA PATRIOT ) that stands for Uniting ( and ) Strengthening America  (  by ) Providing Appropriate Tools Required ( to ) Intercept ( and ) Obstruct Terrorism  अधिनियम  of 2001 .
The act , as a response to the terrorist attacks of September 11th  ,  significantly reduced restrictions in law enforcement agencies ' gathering of  प्रज्ञा   भीतर  the United States ; expanded the Secretary of the Treasury’s  प्राधिकार  to  विनियमित  financial transactions , particularly those involving foreign individuals and entities ; and broadened the discretion of  विधि  enforcement and immigration authorities in  निमाड़  and  deporting  immigrants suspected of terrorism-related acts .
The act also expanded the definition of  आतंक   to   शामिल  domestic terrorism , thus enlarging the number of activities to which the  यूएसए   patriot  Act’s expanded law enforcement powers can be  लागू  .
On May 26 , 2011  ,  President Barack Obama used an Autopen to  चिह्न   the  PATRIOT Sunsets Extension Act of 2011 ,  a  four-year  एक्सटेंशन   of  three  कुंजी  provisions in the USA PATRIOT  अधिनियम   जबकि  he was in France : roving wiretaps , searches of business records ( the `` library  रिकॉर्ड  provision ``  )  , and conducting surveillance of ``  लोन   भेड़ियों  '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related activities  नहीं  linked  to  terrorist  समूह   .
Republican leaders questioned  if   the  use of the Autopen met the constitutional  आवश्यकताएँ  for signing a bill  into  law  .
A house in Queen Anne style at  223  Avenue  a  .
Snohomish  is  a city in Snohomish County , Washington  ,  United States .
The population was 9,098 at the 2010 census .
The mayor  of  Snohomish is Karen Guzak , and the City Manager is Larry Bauman .
Snohomish  prides   itself  for its historical downtown , and was once known for  इसके  many antique shops when it was known  as  the `` Antique  पूंजी  of the Northwest . ''
The historic  कारोबार  and residential center of the town constitutes the Snohomish  ऐतिहासिक   ज़िला   ,   जिससे  is listed on the National Register of Historic Places .
Many  घरों  bear plaques  साथ  the year the house was built and the name of the family or individual who originally occupied  it  .
Once every  साल  , the city gives tours of the historic houses  ;  one of them , the Blackman House , is a year-round museum .
A general aviation  एयरफील्ड  ,  घनघोर  Airfield , is less than one mile southwest of Downtown Snohomish  .
डेव   matthews  Band (  dmb   )  is an American rock  बैंड  that was formed  in  Charlottesville , Virginia , United  राज्य   ,  in 1991 .
The founding members  यहूद  singer-songwriter  और  guitarist Dave  matthews  ,  bassist   stefan  Lessard , drummer  /backing  vocalist  कार्टर  Beauford and saxophonist LeRoi  मूर  .
Boyd  tinsley  was  added  to the band  as  a violinist soon after the band was  formed  .
Moore died suddenly  in  August  2008  due to complications from injuries sustained in an ATV accident .
GRAMMY  पुरस्कार  -winner Jeff Coffin of Béla  fleck   और  the Flecktones has since filled Moore 's  स्पॉट  as the  बैंड   's   saxophonist  .
Rashawn Ross and Tim  रेनॉल्ड्स  have also become full-time touring members of  the  band .
The  बैंड  's  2009  album  बिग   whiskey  and  the  GrooGrux  किंग  ( the first album  चूंकि   मूर  's  मौत  ) debuted at number one  on  the Billboard  200  , earning the band their fifth consecutive number-one  debut—  making them the second band behind Metallica to do  so   .
Their most recent  एल्बम  , Away from the World ,  थी  released in 2012 ,  और   भी  debuted at number one on the  बिलबोर्ड  chart .
as  of  2010  ,  the   डेव  Matthews Band has sold over 30 million records worldwide .
the  band is known  लिये  their  सालाना  summer-long tours of the United States and Europe  ,  featuring  lengthy  improvisational renditions of their songs , accompanied by an elaborate video and lighting show .
This portion of the tour has  become  a stamp  of  DMB and has grown with the band since Fenton Williams  began  working with them in the early 1990s .
After twenty consecutive  सालो  of touring the band  घोषित  that it would take the summer of  2011  off .
Dave Matthews Band has won  एक  GRAMMY Award , and was awarded  the  NAACP  अध्यक्ष  's  पुरस्कार  .
According to Julian Bond , `` they sell out the largest arenas  on  Earth ,  लकिन  frequently give their music away  .  ''
Transcendental  जंगली  Oats : A Chapter from  an  Unwritten Romance  is   a  prose satire written by Louisa May Alcott  ,  about her family 's  भागीदारी  with the Transcendentalist community Fruitlands in  the  early 1840s .
The work was first published in a New York newspaper in  1873  , and reprinted in 1874 , 1876 , and 1915 and after .
In  उसके  account , Alcott provides  the  real people involved with thin pseudonymous disguises .
उसके  father Amos Bronson Alcott is ``  abel  Lamb , '' while  उसके  partner and community co-founder Charles Lane is  ``  Timon Lion  ;   ''   अबीगैल  May Alcott , Louisa 's mother and Bronson 's  बीवी  , is `` Sister  आशा  . ''
Alcott  depicts  her  पिता  as dominated by his more forceful partner  ,   और  both men as feckless and impractical dreamers .
The  मेन  of the community spend  उनके  time in pointless debates while Sister Hope works from  भोर  to dusk to maintain their existence .
A  संकट  arises at harvest time ,  जब  the  अनाज  crop is threatened by an approaching storm  .
In Alcott 's words  ,   ``  About the time the grain  थी  ready to  हाउस  ,  कुछ  call  of  the Oversoul wafted all  the  men away . ''
Sister  आशा  organizes the  तभी  available help , three little girls and a  लड़के  , and manages to  सहेजें  the  क्रॉप  .
The little  जातियाँ  collapses as soon as the weather turns cold  ,   जब  it  becomes  clear  कि   उनके   प्रावधानों   हैं  too meager to  पिछला  the coming winter .
timon  Lion  और  his son  abscond  to join the Shakers  —  though Timon  is  unhappy to  सीख  that life among them  is  `` all work and no  खेल  . ''
Abel is crushed  by  the  विफलता  of the enterprise ;  बाद  days of  despair  he begins  to   खा  again only  जब  he realizes  कि  his family needs  उसे   .
सिस्टर  Hope finds a way for them to subsist and persevere .
Alcott 's view of male arrogance  और  female  शोषण  in this  टुकड़ा  is paralleled  in  her novel , published in the  वही  year as `` Transcendental  जंगली  Oats . ''
`` Transcendental  जंगली  Oats ''  रै  been reprinted in  अनेक   आधुनिक  editions .
Mount of the Holy Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot mountain  in  the Sawatch Range , part of the  रॉकी  Mountains in Colorado .
it  is located in the Holy Cross Wilderness  निकट  the ghost town of Holy Cross City and in Eagle  काउंटी  .
it  was  नामित  for the distinctive  cross-shaped  snowfield  on  the northeast  फेस  .
Under  यूएसडीए  Forest Service administration ,  the   पहाड़  was  proclaimed  `` Holy Cross  नेशनल   स्मारक  '' by Herbert Hoover on  may  11 , 1929 .
The monument was transferred to the National Park Service  in   1933  .
In  1950  , it  थी  returned to the Forest  सेवा   और  lost its National Monument status—the number  of  visitors to the mountain and  the  nearby `` Pilgrim 's Hut '' had  waned  , and  the   व्यय  of full-time staff could not be justified .
This mountain  रै  been the subject of painters , photographers and even a poem  by   हेनरी  Wadsworth Longfellow , ( The  क्रॉस  of  हिम  ) .
The first publicly available photograph was published in National Geographic magazine .
Thomas Moran depicted the mountain in an  आयल  painting  ,  which  अभी  is  भाग  of the collection  of  the  संग्रहालय  of the American West , part  of  the Autry  नेशनल  Center  in  Los  एंजिल्स  , California  .
It is still much photographed but it is not as well known today as  it  was in the past .
Nearby features include  कटोरी  of Tears Lake  ,  directly under the east face  of  the peak  ,  Tuhare  झीलों   ,   in  a cirque that  झूठ   दक्षिण  of  a  significant subpeak , and several other lakes .
Notable  स्थितियाँ  within include the  dotsero  volcano  (  near Interstate  70  ) , Vail and Aspen .
US 24  रनों  near the  शिखर  through  gilman   .
Photochrom print of Mount  of  the Holy Cross  c.  1900 .
This  चित्र   is  a reversed view of  the  mountain compared to how it actually appears  .
The first  अंकित  ascent  of  Holy Cross was in 1873  ,  by F. V. Hayden and photographer W.  H.  Jackson during one of Hayden 's  भौगोलिक  surveys .
However , the peak  may  well  have  been ascended previously  by  miners or American  इंडियंस  .
the  first winter ascent of the peak was made  in  1943 by Russel  keene  and  हावर्ड   freedman  of the  10th  Mountain Division , then stationed at Camp Hale .
Holy Cross can  be  climbed by  at  least  चार  different routes  ,  with the easiest and most  आम  route being the North Ridge , which involves of vertical gain  over   और  is rated YDS Class 2  लिये  moderate scrambling .
The Cross  couloir  route forms the vertical portion of the famous cross  विशेषता  ,  और  provides an advanced snow climb or  चरम  ski descent .
Mount of the Holy Cross has a history of endangering the lives of many hikers .
primarily  , the hikers who require rescue are  unfamiliar  with the risks of entering wilderness areas and do not bring adequate equipment  और  supplies to  respond  to emergency conditions .
Although the summit on Mount of  the  Holy Cross is frequently reached on  a  long day hike , unprepared hikers are frequently  stranded  or  खोया   due  to changing environmental conditions and confusion regarding the surrounding landscape , especially on the  descent   of  North Ridge .
thorough  research and reasonable planning should prevent most tragedies .
Mount of the Holy cross is accessible  इससे  Tigiwon Road  ,   दक्षिण   of  Minturn ,  कोलोराडो  .
The Half Moon Pass Trail is the  मानक  route to the summit of  माउंट   of   the  Holy Cross via the  उत्तर  Ridge .
Following the Fall Creek  ट्रेल  to an  ascent  of Notch Mountain Trail  provides  the  बेहतरीन   दृश्य  of the Holy Cross snow feature from Notch Mountain  लकीरें   .
The  जीएसएम  logo  is  used to identify compatible handsets and equipment
GSM (  वैश्विक  System  लिये  Mobile Communications , originally ' ) , is a standard set developed  by   the  European Telecommunications  मानकों   संस्थान  (  etsi  ) to  describe  protocols for second generation ( 2G ) digital cellular networks used by mobile phones .
It became the  de  facto global standard  लिये  mobile communications with over  80  % market  share  .
the  GSM standard  थी  developed as a replacement for first generation ( 1G ) analog cellular  संजाल  , and originally described a digital , circuit  switched  network optimized for  पूरा  duplex voice  telephony   .
This was expanded over time to include  आंकड़ा  communications , first  by  circuit switched transport , then packet  आंकड़ा  transport via GPRS ( General  पैकेट  Radio Services ) and EDGE ( Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution or EGPRS  )   .
Further improvements were made  जब  the 3GPP  विकसित  third generation (  3g   )  UMTS  मानकों  followed by  चौथी   पीढी  (  4g  ) LTE Advanced standards .
`` GSM  ''  is a trademark owned by  the  GSM Association .
President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the Lend-Lease bill to give aid to Britain and  चीन  ( 1941 )
The Lend  पट्टे  act was an act where  the  United States  था  supported its allies .
Lend-Lease  (  ) was the law that  प्रारंभ   a  program  अंतर्गत  which the United  राज्य  of America supplied the  संयुक्त  Kingdom , the  ussr  , Republic of China , Free France ,  और  other Allied nations with materiel  between  1941 and 1945 .
It was signed into law on  कूच   11  ,  1941   ,  a year and a half  बाद  the outbreak of World War II  in  Europe in September 1939 .
This was nine  महीने  before the U.S. entered the war in December 1941 .
Formally titled An Act to  further  Promote the Defense of the  संयुक्त  States  ,  the Act effectively ended the  संयुक्त  States ' pretense of neutrality .
A total of $ 50  .1  billion ( equivalent to $ today ) worth  of  supplies  यहूद  shipped : $  31.4  billion to Britain , $ 11.3 billion to the  सोवियत  Union ,  $  3.2  अरब  to  फ़्रांस  , $ 1.6 billion to China , and smaller sums  to   अन्य  Allies .
Reverse Lend-Lease comprised services  ऐसे  as  किराया  on air bases that went to the U.S. , and totaled $ 7.8 billion ;  of  this , $ 6.8 billion came from the British and the Commonwealth  .
The terms of the  अनुबंध  provided that the materiel was to be used until  समय  for their return or destruction .
Supplies after  the   termination  date  यहूद  sold to Britain at a  विशाल   छूट  for £1  .075   अरब  using  long-term  loans from the United States  .
Canada operated a similar program  कि  sent $ 4.7 billion in supplies to the  संयुक्त  Kingdom and the Soviet Union  .
The United States did not  चार्ज  for aid supplied  अंतर्गत  this legislation .
This program was a decisive step away from non-interventionist  नीति  , which  था  dominated  संयुक्त   राज्य   विदेशी  relations since the  समाप्त   of  World War I , towards international involvement  .
The Jerusalem artichoke  (  Helianthus tuberosus )  ,  also called sunroot , sunchoke , earth apple or topinambour ,  is   a  species of sunflower  देशी  to  पूर्वी  North  अमेरिका  ,  और   मिला  from eastern Canada and  maine   वेस्ट  to North Dakota , and south to northern Florida and Texas .
It is also  cultivated  widely across the  शीतोष्ण  zone for its tuber , which is used  as  a root  सब्ज़ी  .
Castillo San Felipe  डेल  Morro  भी   ज्ञात  as  फोर्ट  San  फेलिप  del Morro or Morro Castle  ,  is a  16th-century  citadel located in San Juan ,  प्यूर्टो  Rico .
Stonehenge  is  a prehistoric monument in Wiltshire , England , about  वेस्ट  of Amesbury and  उत्तर  of Salisbury  .
एक  of the most famous sites  in  the world , Stonehenge is the  remains  of  a   रिंग  of standing stones set within earthworks .
it   is  in the  मध्य  of the most dense complex of Neolithic and  कांस्य  Age monuments in England ,  सहित  several hundred burial mounds .
Archaeologists believe it was built anywhere from  3000  BC  to  2000 BC .
Radiocarbon  डेटिंग  in 2008 suggested that the  पहला  stones were raised between 2400 and  2200  BC , whilst another theory suggests that bluestones may have been raised at the  साईट   as  early as 3000 BC .
The  surrounding  circular earth bank and ditch , which constitute the earliest phase of the monument , have been dated to about 3100 BC .
The site and its surroundings were added to  the   युनेस्को  's list of World  विरासत   साइट  in 1986 in a  co-listing  with  avebury   henge  .
It is a national  legally  protected Scheduled Ancient Monument .
Stonehenge  is  owned by the Crown and managed by English Heritage , while the surrounding  जमीन  is owned by  the  National Trust .
Archaeological  प्रमाण  found by the Stonehenge  riverside  Project in 2008 indicates that Stonehenge could have been a  दफ़न  ground from its earliest beginnings  .
The  डेटिंग  of cremated remains found on  the  site indicate that deposits  contain   इंसान  bone from as early as 3000 BC , when the  खाई  and bank were first dug .
Such deposits continued at Stonehenge for at least another 500 years .
The site is a place  of  religious significance  और  pilgrimage in Neo-Druidry .
the   ncaa  Women 's Division I Championship  is  an annual college basketball  टूर्नामेंट   लिये  women .
Held each  अप्रैल  , the Women 's Championship was inaugurated  in  the  1981–82  season .
The NCAA tournament was preceded  by  the AIAW Women 's  बास्केट  Tournament , which  थी   आयोजित  annually from 1972 to 1982 .
Basketball was one of  बारह  women 's sports added to the NCAA championship  कार्यक्रम   लिये  the 1981-82 school year , as the NCAA  सगाई  in battle with the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics  लिये  Women for sole governance of women 's  कॉलेजिएट  sports .
The AIAW  जारी   to  conduct its established championship program in  the  same  बारह  ( and other  )   खेल  ;  however   ,   बाद  a  साल   of  dual  महिलाओं  's championships , the  ncaa  prevailed , while the  aiaw  disbanded .
Attendance and interest in the Women 's  प्रभाग  I Championship have grown over the years , especially since  2003  , when the final championship game was moved to  the  Tuesday  following  the Monday  मेन  's  चैंपियनशिप  game .
The women 's championship game is now the final overall game of the college basketball  ऋतु  .
Before that , the Women 's Final  चार  was usually played on  the   शुक्रवार  before the Men 's Final Four or the hours before the men played on the final  शनिवार   of   the  tournament .
The  फाइनल  was usually played the Sunday afternoon following  the  Men 's Final Four .
The  टूर्नामेंट  bracket  is  made up of champions from each Division  i  conference , which  प्राप्त  automatic bids .
the  remaining  स्लॉट  are at-large bids , with  टीमों  chosen by an NCAA selection committee .
The selection process and tournament  seedings  are based on several  कारकों  , including team rankings  ,  win-loss records  और  Ratings Percentage Index ( RPI ) data .
Unlike the men 's tournament , there are only 32  at-large   बोलियों  ( as of  the  next tournament in 2014 ) , and no play-in game .
The women  's  tournament , like  the  men  's  , is staged in a single elimination format  ,  and is part of  the  media  और  public frenzy known colloquially as  कूच  Madness or The Big Dance .
All  63  games  have  been  ब्रॉडकास्ट  on television since 2003 on ESPN and ESPN2  .
Similar to  the  pre-2011 men 's tournament coverage on CBS , local  टीमों  are shown on each channel when available ,  साथ  `` whip-around '' coverage designed to  शोकेस  the most competitive contests in the rest  of  the country .
The  rosetta  Stone in  the  British Museum
the  Rosetta Stone is an ancient Egyptian granodiorite  stele   inscribed  with  a  decree  जारी  at Memphis in 196 BC on behalf of  किंग  Ptolemy V .
The  डिक्री  appears  in   तीन  scripts : the upper  टेक्स्ट  is Ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs , the middle portion Demotic  स्क्रिप्ट  ,  और  the lowest Ancient Greek .
क्युकी  it presents essentially  the  same text in all  तीन  scripts  (  with some minor differences between them ) , it  provided  the key to  the  modern  समझना  of  मिश्र  hieroglyphs  .
Originally displayed within a  टेम्पल   ,   the  stone was probably moved during the early Christian or medieval  काल  and eventually used as building material in the construction of Fort Julien near the  कस्बा  of Rashid ( Rosetta  )  in the  nile  Delta .
It was rediscovered  वहीँ  in 1799 by  a  soldier  ,  Pierre-François  bouchard  ,  of  the French expedition to Egypt .
As  the  first Ancient Egyptian bilingual text recovered in modern times , the Rosetta Stone aroused  फैली  public interest with  इसके  potential  to  decipher  इस  hitherto untranslated ancient language  .
Lithographic copies and plaster casts began  circulating  among  यूरोपीय  museums and scholars .
Meanwhile  ,  British troops defeated the French in  मिश्र  in 1801 , and the original stone came  into  British possession  अंतर्गत  the  capitulation   of  Alexandria .
Transported to  लंदन  , it has been on public display  at  the British  संग्रहालय  since 1802  .
It is the  most-visited  object in the British Museum .
Ever since its rediscovery , the  स्टोन  has been the focus of nationalist rivalries  ,  including its transfer  इससे  French  to  British possession during the Napoleonic  युद्धों  , a long-running dispute over  the  relative value of Young  's  and  champollion   's  contributions to the  decipherment  , and since 2003  ,  demands for the stone 's return to Egypt  .
पढ़ाई   of   the   डिक्री  was already under way as the first  पूरा  translation of the Greek text appeared in 1803 .
It was 20 years  ,   however  , before the  लिप्यन्तरण   of  the  मिश्र  scripts was announced  by   jean-françois   champollion  in Paris in 1822 ; it took longer still before scholars were able to read  प्राचीन   मिश्र  inscriptions and literature confidently  .
Major advances  in   the   डिकोडिंग  were : recognition  कि   the   स्टोन  offered three versions  of  the  वही  text  (  1799 ) ; that the demotic  टेक्स्ट  used phonetic characters to spell foreign names ( 1802 )  ;  that the hieroglyphic  टेक्स्ट   किया  so as  खूब  , and  था  pervasive similarities to the  demotic  ( Thomas Young ,  1814   )  ; and  कि  , in addition to being used for foreign names , phonetic characters  यहूद  also used  to  spell native Egyptian words ( Champollion  ,  1822–1824 ) .
Two other fragmentary copies of the  वही  decree were discovered later  ,  and  अनेक  similar  मिश्र  bilingual or trilingual  inscriptions   हैं  now known , including two  थोड़ा   पहले  Ptolemaic decrees (  the  Decree  of  Canopus  in  238 BC , and the  मेम्फिस  decree of Ptolemy  iv  , ca .  218  BC ) .
The Rosetta  स्टोन  is therefore no longer unique , but it  थी  the essential key  to   आधुनिक  understanding  of   प्राचीन  Egyptian literature and civilization .
The term Rosetta Stone is now used in other  contexts  as the  नाम  for the essential clue to  a   नई   फ़ील्ड  of knowledge .
Poison  डार्ट  frog ( also  dart-poison   मेंढक  , poison frog or formerly poison  तीर  frog  )  is the common name of a group  of   मेंढक  in the family Dendrobatidae which are native to Central and South America .
These species are diurnal  और  often have brightly colored bodies  .
हालांकि  all wild dendrobatids are at least somewhat toxic , levels of toxicity vary considerably from one species to  the  next and from one population to another .
Many species are threatened .
These amphibians are often called `` dart frogs ''  due  to the Amerindians ' indigenous use  of  their to  ज़हर   the  tips  of  blowdarts .
However , of over 175 species ,  तभी  four have been documented as being  प्रयुक्त  for this purpose (  curare  plants are more commonly  प्रयुक्त  ) , all  of  which come  इससे  the Phyllobates genus ,  जिससे  is  characterized  by  the  relatively large  आकार  and high levels of toxicity of  इसके  members .
Cajeta is a Mexican confection of  thickened  syrup usually made of sweetened  caramelised  milk .
According to chef Rick Bayless , the  नाम   लिये   cajeta  came from  the  Spanish phrase al punto de cajeta  ,  which means  ``  a liquid thickened  to  the point at which a spoon  drawn  through the liquid reveals the bottom of the pot in  जिससे  it is being cooked '' .
another  hypothesis  is  that it takes its name from the small wooden boxes in  जिससे  it was traditionally packed .
मैक्सिकन  cajeta is  माना  a specialty of the city of Celaya in the state  of  Guanajuato ,  हालांकि  it  is  also produced with  the  traditional  विधि   in  several towns of  the  state of Jalisco , such as Mazamitla , Sayula  ,   और  Atotonilco  el   आल्टो  .
Cajeta is  बना  by  simmering  goat 's  मिल्क  , or  occasionally  a sweetened liquid , stirring frequently , until it becomes very  viscous  due to evaporation of water , and caramelized  .
While goat milk is the most  usual   आधार  , other liquids  or  juices may be used .
in  Celaya , and eventually the  बाकी   of  Mexico , the  confection  of half goat 's milk  और  half cow 's milk became  ज्ञात  by the name  cajeta  ,  लकिन  elsewhere , the milk candy became  ज्ञात   as  leche quemada , dulce de leche ,  इत्यादि  .
It has cousins in the many Indian milk-based sweets  जैसे  pera and the  मिल्क  fudge burfi , and in the opera fudge of the U.S. Cajeta  is  eaten on its own  as  a sweet  ,  as a spread or filling for breads and pastries , such as  churros  ,  और   as  a topping for ice cream .
Certain liquors are added to special recipes called  cajeta   envinada  .
In addition , cajeta envinada especial is enriched with raisins , almonds  ,  pecans or  nuts  .
Often it is used as a topping for crêpes , as a sweet sauce  boiled   और  softened down with milk to soak the crepes , resulting in a tasty dessert .
In Mexico  अनेक  brands make cajeta but  the  most common brand is Coronado .
It is also very  आम  to place  cajeta  between obleas to make a traditional  मैक्सिकन  dessert .
Prince William  ,  Duke  of  Cambridge  (   विलियम  Arthur  फिलिप  Louis ; born 21 June  1982  )  ,  is the elder  बेटे  of Charles , Prince of Wales  ,  and Diana ,  राजकुमारी  of Wales , and  third-eldest   पोता  of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip  ,  Duke of Edinburgh .
he  is  दूसरी  in the  लकीर  of succession , behind his  पिता  , to the thrones  of  sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom ,  कनाडा  , Australia  ,   नई   जीलैंड   ,  Jamaica , Barbados , The Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent  और  the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and  बारबूडा  , and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Prince William was educated at four  स्कूलों  in the  संयुक्त  Kingdom and obtained a degree from  the  University of St Andrews .
he  spent parts of a gap  साल  in Chile  ,  Belize , Tanzania , and Kenya where he has  जिया  and holidayed several  टाइम्स   .
Prince  विलियम  has  भी  taken Kiswahili  अध्ययन   at  universities in Kenya and Tanzania  .
He  थी  commissioned as a Lieutenant in  the   ब्लूज़  and Royals Regiment of the Household Cavalry —serving with his brother Prince Harry —and , two  सालो  later , earned his wings  by  completing pilot  प्रशिक्षण  at Royal Air Force  कॉलेज   cranwell   .
In 2009  ,  he  transferred  to the Royal  एयर  Force ,  थी  promoted to Flight Lieutenant  और  underwent helicopter flying training in order to become  a  full-time pilot  साथ  the  ढूंढें  and Rescue Force .
In 2010 , he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter training and went on  to  RAF  घाटी  on  no  .  22  Squadron  performing  co-pilot duties on board a Sea King  ढूंढें  and rescue helicopter .
Prince William married  उसके  longtime girlfriend , Catherine Middleton ,  on  29  अप्रैल  2011 at Westminster Abbey .
Hours  prior  to  उसके  wedding ,  प्रिंस  William was  निर्मित   ड्यूक   of  Cambridge ,  अर्ल   of  Strathearn ,  और  Baron Carrickfergus .
Mali is  a  multilingual country .
the  languages spoken  वहीँ  reflect ancient settlement  पैटर्न  , migrations , and its long history .
Ethnologue counts  50  languages .
Of these ,  फ्रेंच  is  the  official  भाषा  and  bambara  is  the   सबसे  widely spoken .
Altogether  13  of  the  indigenous  भाषाएं  of  माली  have the legal status of national language  .
Sign in French  ,  at  a   स्मारक   in  Bamako  .
{ { Infobox Holiday
Chinese New Year
9  – 12 February ( Vietnam )
Rogers Building , the headquarters of Rogers Communications
Rogers Communications  inc.   is  a  diversified  public  कनाडाई  communications and media company .
It is particularly in  the  field  of   बेतार  communications , cable television ,  टेलीफोन  , and Internet  कनेक्टिविटी  with significant additional  दूरसंचार   और  mass media assets .
The  कम्पनी  is headquartered in the Rogers  भवन  in  टोरंटो   ,   ओंटारियो   .
The  कम्पनी   दावा  the  विरासत  of the Rogers Vacuum Tube Company ,  संस्थापित   in  1925 by Edward  रोजर्स   ,   जिससे   प्रारंभ  the CFRB radio station  in  Toronto , which was later acquired  by   बाहर   रूचि  .
The present enterprise dates to 1960  ,  when Rogers ' son ,  टेड   रोजर्स  , founded  रोजर्स  Radio  प्रसारण  Ltd .
That company acquired CHFI that year , as well as Aldred-Rogers Broadcasting , a partnership with Joel Aldred which  helped  launch CFTO in 1961 .
Rogers later bought out Aldred and started  the  current cable and wireless  परिचालन  , known  as  Rogers Cablesystems Ltd .
The  मुख्य  competitor to the  कम्पनी  is Bell Canada , which has a  similarly  extensive portfolio  of  radio and  टेलीविज़न   मीडिया  assets , as well as wireless , television distribution , and telephone services  ,  particularly in Eastern and Central Canada  ;  the two companies are often seen as having a duopoly on communications services in their regions .
However ,  the  company also competes nationally with Telus for wireless services , and primarily indirectly  साथ  Shaw  संचार  for television service .
the   कम्पनी  also competes with a number  of  other media companies in the broadcasting  उद्योग  .
The Internet is  a  global system of  interconnected  computer networks that use the standard Internet  प्रोटोकॉल  suite (  tcp/ip   )  to  serve  billions  of  users worldwide .
It is a network of networks that consists of millions of private , public , academic , business  ,  and government  संजाल  , of local to global  पैमाना  , that are linked  by  a  व्यापक  array of  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  , wireless and optical networking  technologies  .
The Internet carries an extensive range of information resources and services , such  as  the inter-linked hypertext documents of the World Wide Web ( WWW  )  and the infrastructure to  support  email .
Most traditional  संचार  media including telephone  ,  music , film , and television  हैं   होने   reshaped  or redefined  by  the Internet , giving birth to new  सेवाएं  such  as  voice over  अंतरजाल  Protocol  (  VoIP  )  and Internet Protocol television (  iptv  ) .
Newspaper ,  किताब  and  अन्य  print  प्रकाशन   हैं  adapting  to  Web site technology , or are reshaped into blogging and web feeds .
The  अंतरजाल  has enabled and  त्वरित   नई   फ़ॉर्म  of human interactions through instant messaging  ,  Internet  forums  , and social networking .
Online shopping  रै   boomed  both for major retail outlets and  छोटी  artisans and traders  .
business-to-business  and  वित्तीय  services on  the  Internet affect supply chains across entire industries .
The origins of the Internet  पहुँचें  back to research commissioned by the United States government in the 1960s  to  build  मजबूत  ,  fault-tolerant  communication via computer networks .
The funding of a new U.S. backbone  by  the National Science Foundation in the 1980s ,  as  well as private funding for other commercial backbones , led to  विश्वव्यापी   भागीदारी  in the development of new networking  technologies   ,  and the merger of many networks .
The commercialization of  कया  was by  the  1990s an international network resulted in its popularization and incorporation into virtually every  पहलू  of modern human life  .
,  अधिक  than 2.4 billion people—over  a  third of  the  world 's human population  —have  used the services of the Internet ; approximately 100 times more people than were  using  it in 1995 , when it was mostly used by tech-savvy  मध्य  and upper  क्लास   लोगों  in the United  राज्य  and  अनेक  other  देशों  .
the   अंतरजाल  has  no  centralized governance in either technological  क्रियान्वयन  or policies for access and usage ; each  constituent  network sets its own  नीतियों  .
Only the  overreaching   परिभाषाएं   of  the two  प्रिंसिपल  name spaces in the Internet ,  the  Internet Protocol address space and  the  Domain  नाम   प्रणाली   ,  are directed by a maintainer organization , the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ) .
The  तकनीकी  underpinning and standardization  of  the  कोर  protocols ( IPv4  और   ipv6   )  is  an  activity of the Internet Engineering Task Force  (  IETF  )  , a non-profit organization of loosely affiliated international participants that anyone  may   संबद्ध  with by contributing technical expertise .
The  2006  Winter Olympics , officially known as the XX Olympic Winter Games , was a winter multi-sport event which was celebrated in Turin , Italy from February 10  ,   2006   ,  through  फ़रवरी  26  ,  2006 .
This marked the second time  इटली  hosted the Olympic Winter Games , the first being the  सात  Olympic Winter Games in  cortina  d'Ampezzo  in  1956 .
Italy  भी  hosted  the  Games of the XVII  ओलंपियाड  in  रोम  in 1960 .
Turin was selected  as  the host  नगर   लिये  the 2006  खेल  in 1999 .
the  official  लोगो  displayed  the  name `` Torino  ''  , the Italian name of the city ;  the  city is known as  ``  Turin ''  in   दोनो  English and the local traditional language , Piedmontese .
The  ओलम्पिक   mascots  of Torino 2006 were Neve ( `` snow '' in Italian ) , a female  स्नोबॉल  ,  और  Gliz ,  a   पुरूष   बर्फ  cube .
the   आधिकारिक  motto of the XX Olympic Winter Games was `` Passion lives here '' .
`` Help ! '' is a song by  the  Beatles that served as the title song for both the 1965  फिल्मी  and its soundtrack album .
it  was also released as a single , and was number one  लिये  three  सप्ताह  in both the United States and  the  United Kingdom .
`` Help ! '' was written primarily  by  John Lennon , but credited to Lennon–McCartney .
During an interview  साथ  Playboy in 1984 , Paul McCartney  stated   कि  the title was  ``   आउट  of desperation '' .
Poster  लिये  the  2005   प्रदर्शनी
siegfried  Bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6  सितंबर  1905  )  , who usually  दिया  his name  as  S. Bing ,  और   थी   यूँ  often  संदर्भित  erroneously as ``  सैमुएल   bing   ''  ( Samuel Otto Bing , 1850–1905 , was his brother ) was  a   जर्मनी  art dealer who  जिया  in Paris as an adult , and who helped  introduce  Japanese  आर्ट  and artworks to the West and  थी  a factor in the  विकास   of  the Art Nouveau style during the late nineteenth century .
Comparison of  पुरूष  and female  जीवन  expectancy  at  birth for countries and territories as defined in the 2011 CIA Factbook , with selected bubbles labelled .
The dotted line corresponds  to  equal  मादा  and male life expectancy .
The apparent 3D volumes of the bubbles are linearly proportional to their population .
इस   is  a list of countries by life expectancy at birth .
Kennewick is a city in Benton County in the southeastern part of the  u.S.  state  of  Washington  ,  near  the  Hanford nuclear site .
It is the most  populous  of the three  शहरों   collectively  referred to as the  tri-cities  ( the others being Pasco  और  Richland  )  .
Kennewick is  स्तिथ   साथ  the southwest bank of the  कोलंबिया  River , opposite  pasco  and just south of  the  confluence of  the  Columbia and  yakima   नदियाँ  .
The population was 73,917 at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी   .
April 1  ,  2012 estimates from the Washington State Office of Financial Management  put   the  city 's population at 75,160 .
The nearest commercial airport is the Tri-Cities Airport in Pasco  ,   a  regional  वाणिज्यिक  and private airport  .
Forbes  पत्रिका  named Kennewick the # 2 area in the United  राज्य  for  जॉब  growth  ,  while nearby Yakima was named  #  1 .
The article cites the number of scientists employed  by  the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory and  क्षेत्रफल  farmland  लिये  this  आउटलुक  .
the  prothrombin time ( PT  )  and its derived  उपायों  of prothrombin ratio ( PR ) and international normalized  अनुपात  ( INR ) are measures of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation .
This test is also  पुकारा   ``  ProTime INR ''  और  `` PT/INR '' .
They are used  to   determine  the clotting tendency of blood ,  in   the  measure of  warfarin   dosage  , liver damage , and vitamin K status .
PT measures factors I ( fibrinogen  )   ,   ii  ( prothrombin ) , V  ,   सात  , and X .
It is used in conjunction with the activated partial  thromboplastin  time  (  aPTT ) which  उपायों  the intrinsic pathway .
`` I 'm  in   the  Mood  लिये   प्रेम  '' is a popular song  .
The  म्यूज़िक   थी  written  by   jimmy  McHugh ,  the   गीत  by Dorothy Fields .
The song was published in 1935 .
It was  introduced   by  Frances  langford  in the movie Every Night  at  Eight  released   कि  year .
The song  थी  featured in the  1936  Our  गिरोह  ( Little Rascals ) short , The Pinch Singer , sung by Carl  ``   अल्फाल्फा   ''  Switzer , and in the 1936 film Palm Springs .
It is often known to be Switzer 's signature song .
जेम्स   मूडी   's  saxophone solo on  a  1952  रिकॉर्डिंग  of this song inspired  the  song  ``  Moody 's Mood for Love `` .
हिप  hop  कलाकार  Prince Paul  sampled   the  song  as   the  basis for the track ``  मनोदशा  for Love '' on his album A Prince Among Thieves ( 1999  )  ,  साथ  Don  newkirk  singing its original lyrics .
The song  's  title inspired the  अंग्रेज़ी  title of Wong  kar  Wai 's movie In the Mood  लिये  Love  .
Cross-cultural psychology is the scientific  पढ़ाई   of  human behavior and mental processes , including both their variability and invariance , under diverse cultural conditions .
through  expanding research methodologies to  recognize  cultural variance in  बर्ताव  , language  ,   और   अर्थ   it   seeks  to extend  और  develop psychology .
Since psychology as an academic discipline  थी   विकसित  largely  in  North America  ,  some  psychologists   became  concerned that constructs accepted as universal were not as invariant as previously assumed , especially since many  कोशिशें  to replicate notable experiments  in   अन्य  cultures had  varying  success .
चूंकि   वहीँ  are questions as to whether theories dealing with central themes  ,  such as  affect  , cognition , conceptions of the self , and issues such as psychopathology , anxiety ,  और  depression  ,  may lack external validity  जब   ``  exported '' to other  सांस्कृतिक  contexts , cross-cultural psychology re-examines them  using   methodologies  designed to factor in  सांस्कृतिक  differences so as to account  लिये  cultural variance .
Although some critics have pointed to methodological flaws  in  cross-cultural  मनोवैज्ञानिक  research and claim that serious shortcomings in the theoretical and methodological bases used impede rather than help the scientific search for  सार्वभौमिक   सिद्धान्त  in  मनोविज्ञान  , cross-cultural psychologists are turning more to  the  study of how differences ( variance ) occur , rather than searching for  universals  in the style of physics or chemistry .
In 1972 the International Association of Cross-Cultural Psychology ( IACCP  )  was established .
This branch of psychology has continued to expand as  वहीँ   रै  been an  increasing  popularity of  incorporating  culture and diversity into studies .
cross-cultural  psychology is differentiated from Cultural  मनोविज्ञान  .
The latter is the branch  of   मनोविज्ञान  that  holds  that human  बर्ताव   is  significantly influenced  by  cultural differences , meaning that psychological  phenomena   can   तभी  be compared with  प्रत्येक   अन्य  across  संस्कृतियों  to  a  very limited  extent  .
In contrast , cross-cultural psychology includes a search for possible universals in behavior and mental processes .
Walter J. Lonner , writing for Eye on Psi Chi , has stated that ``  cross-cultural  psychology can be  विचार  of  as  a type research methodology , rather than an entirely separate field  भीतर   मनोविज्ञान   (  2000 ) . ''
`` Judas ''  is  a song by American  रिकॉर्डिंग   कलाकार  Lady Gaga , from  उसके  second  स्टुडियो   एल्बम   born  This Way ( 2011 ) .
It was  released  by  interscope  Records on April 15 , 2011 , four days ahead of its  अनुसूचित   रिलीज  .
Written and produced  by  Lady Gaga and RedOne  ,  `` Judas  ''  is a dance and electro house song about  a  woman in love with a man  जो  betrayed her .
It  embodies  the incidents that  have   haunted  Gaga in the past , and its core meaning refers  to   the  negative parts  of  her life that she ca n't escape .
Gaga has further  समझाया   कि  the song was also about honoring one 's inner darkness  in  order  to  bring oneself  into  the light .
The artwork for the single was designed by Gaga  in  Microsoft Word .
In spite of a polarizing  प्रभाव   on  several religious groups ,  the  song was  generally  well received by critics , who likened the song to  ``   ख़राब   रोमांस  `` with  कुछ  noting it should  have  been the album 's lead single .
The song has a similar  ध्वनि  to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced tracks , including `` Poker Face `` , `` LoveGame  ``   ,   ``  Bad Romance '' ,  और   ``  Alejandro `` .
It contains three distinct hooks and a house  -influenced  break down .
Gaga explained  कि  the lines spoken during the breakdown  बात  about her as  परे  redemption , regarding  the  traditional  दृश्य  of  कया   a   स्त्री  should  be  .
``  यहूदा  '' initially had  a  strong sales opening , but was  कम  successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles .
The song reached the top ten  of   the   चार्ट  in most major music markets , and also reached  the  top of  the  charts in South Korea  .
a  music video for the  सोंग  was filmed in April 2011 ,  co-directed  by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus .
It has  a   biblical  storyline where  reedus  played Judas Iscariot and Gaga  निभाई  Mary Magdalene  .
The video portrays  उन्हें  as modern day  प्रचारकों  going  to  Jerusalem .
it   शामिल  the Biblical story of  यहूदा  betraying  यीशु   ,  and ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death .
Before its  रिलीज  , the Catholic League  condemned   गागा  for the alleged use of religious imagery and her role in  the  video .
However , critics generally praised the video , not finding any  अप्रिय  content .
The video was  मनोनीत  for  दो  awards  at   the   2011   एमटीवी  Video Music Awards .
Gaga has performed ``  यहूदा  ''  on  a number of  टेलीविज़न  shows , including The Graham Norton Show , Saturday Night Live , Good Morning Americas  ``  Summer Concert Series '' , the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen  degeneres  Show .
h.264/mpeg-4  Part 10  or  AVC ( Advanced Video Coding ) is a standard for  वीडियो  compression ,  और  is currently one  of  the most commonly used formats for  the  recording  ,  compression , and distribution of high definition video .
The final drafting work on the first version of the standard was completed in May 2003  .
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is  a  block-oriented  motion-compensation   -आधारd   कोडेक  standard developed by the ITU-T Video Coding  विशेषज्ञ  Group (  vceg  ) together with the ISO/IEC JTC1 Moving Picture Experts Group ( MPEG )  .
the   प्रोजेक्ट  partnership effort  is  known as  the  Joint Video Team ( JVT ) .
The ITU-T H.264 standard and the  iso/iec  MPEG-4 AVC standard  (  formally , ISO/IEC 14496-10 – MPEG-4 Part 10 ,  उन्नत  Video Coding )  हैं  jointly maintained so  कि  they have identical technical content .
H.264  is  perhaps best known as being one of the codec  मानकों  for Blu-ray Discs  ;  all  blu-ray  Disc players must  be  able to decode H.264 .
It is also widely used by streaming internet  स्त्रोत   ,  such as videos from Vimeo , YouTube , and the iTunes Store  ,  web software such as the Adobe Flash Player and Microsoft Silverlight , and  भी  various  hdtv  broadcasts over  स्थलीय  (  atsc  ,  isdb-t   ,  DVB-T or DVB-T2 ) , cable ( DVB-C  )  and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ) .
Non-binding arbitration is a type of arbitration  in  which the arbitrator makes  a   determination   of  the rights of the parties to the dispute , but this determination is not binding upon them  ,  and  no  enforceable arbitration award is issued .
The `` award '' is  in  effect an advisory opinion of the arbitrator 's view of the respective merits of  the  parties cases .
Non-binding arbitration  is  used in connection with attempts to reach a negotiated  उपनिवेश  .
The role  of  an arbitrator in non-binding arbitration is  ,   on  the  सतह  , similar to  कि  of a mediator in a mediation  .
However , the principal distinction  is  that whereas a mediator  होगा  try to help the parties find  a   मध्य  ground to compromise at , the arbitrator  remains   totally  removed from the settlement process and will  तभी  give a determination of liability  और  , if appropriate  ,  an indication of the quantum of  क्षतिपूर्ति  payable .
subsequent  to a non-binding  मध्यस्थता  , the  पार्टियों  remain free  to  pursue their claims either through  the  courts , or by way  of  a binding  मध्यस्थता   ,   हालांकि  in practice a settlement is the most common outcome  .
The  पुरस्कार  and reasoning in a non-binding  मध्यस्थता  is almost invariably  inadmissible   in  any subsequent action in the  न्यायालयों   or  in another arbitration tribunal  .
Non-binding  मध्यस्थता  is utilised mostly  in  the  संयुक्त  States and Canada .
It is largely unknown  in  Europe , although  in  the United Kingdom  वहीँ   is   a  practice of parties who are  seeking   a   उपनिवेश  to jointly instruct a Queen 's Counsel for an opinion on the  merits  and  संभावित  quantum of a  अर्जी  , and then to  negotiate  on  the  basis of the  दृश्य   expressed  in that opinion  .
Augustine Volcano is a  लावा  Dome Complex on Augustine Island in southwestern Cook Inlet in the Kenai Peninsula Borough  of  southcentral coastal Alaska  ,   दक्षिणपश्चिम  of Anchorage .
The  अलास्का   ज्वालामुखी  Observatory currently rates Mount Augustine as Level of Concern Color  कोड  Green for aviation and the  ज्वालामुखी   चेतावनी  Level is at Normal .
Augustine Island has a land area of , while  वेस्ट   द्वीप  , just off Augustine 's  पश्चिमी   shores  ,  रै  .
the  island is  बना  up mainly of past eruption deposits .
वैज्ञानिकों  have been  समर्थ   to   discern  that  पास्ट   गुम्बद  collapse has resulted in large avalanches .
A map  of  Belize .
The country of Belize has roughly 386 km of  तटरेखा   ,  and has many coral  reefs   ,   cays   ,  and islands  in   the   caribbean  Sea .
सबसे  of these form  the  Belize Barrier  रीफ  , the longest  in  the western  गोलार्ध   stemming  approximately  .
The reef and its  आइलैंड्स  have been a UNESCO World  विरासत   साईट  since 1996 .
the  following is a list  of  oceanic islands of Belize , arranged according  to   प्रदेश  but all of  जिससे  are in the Caribbean Sea .
Most of the  आइलैंड्स  variate in  स्पेलिंग  between `` cay '' and `` caye '' , and also use the Spanish `` cayo '' .
River islands have not been listed .
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a  discontinued  commercial packet writing application for  the  Microsoft Windows operating  प्रणाली  that allows optical disc data storage devices to  be   प्रयुक्त  in a manner similar to  फ्लॉपी  disks .
dla  is  a  packet writing  प्रौद्योगिकी  for  cd  and  dvd  media  कि   उपयोग  the UDF file system  .
DLA is  नहीं   संगत  with  खिड़कियाँ  Vista and  नए  , although a patch  exists  to fix this issue  अंतर्गत   खिड़कियाँ  Vista  .
Roxio Burn was  introduced  on April  30  , 2009 .
As a replacement for  dla  , it  remedies   संगतता  issues  अंतरजाल  Explorer 8 .
अल्फा  Rex  emmanuel   humbard  (  अगस्त  13 , 1919 – September 21 , 2007  )  was a well-known American television  इंजीलवादी  whose Cathedral of Tomorrow show  थी  shown on over 600 stations at the  शिखर   of   इसके  popularity .
Limitless  is  a 2011  अमरीकी  thriller film directed by  neil  Burger and  अभिनीत  Bradley Cooper  ,  Abbie Cornish , and Robert De Niro .
It is based on the 2001 novel  the   अंधेरा  Fields by  एलन  Glynn with the  पटकथा  by Leslie Dixon  .
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States , situated in the northwest  extremity  of the North American continent , with the international  boundary  with Canada to  the  east ,  the  Arctic Ocean to  the  north ,  और  the Pacific Ocean to  the   वेस्ट  and south  ,  with Russia further west  आरपार  the  बेरिंग  Strait .
Alaska is the  largest  state in the United States  by   क्षेत्रफल  , the 4th least populous and the least  densely  populated of  the   50   संयुक्त  States .
Approximately half of Alaska 's  731,449  residents  सजीव  within the Anchorage metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  .
Alaska 's economy is  वर्चस्व   by   the   आयल  , natural  गैस  ,  और  fishing industries ; it has these resources in abundance .
अलास्का  was  खरीदा  from Russia on March 30 ,  1867  ,  लिये  $ 7.2 million ( $  समायोजित  for inflation ) at  लगभग   दो  cents per acre  (  $ 4.74/km2 )  .
The  जमीन  went through several administrative changes before becoming an organized  (   or   incorporated  ) territory on  may  11 , 1912  ,  and the 49th state of the U.S. on  जनवरी   3   ,  1959 .
The name  ``  Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced  in   the   रूसी   औपनिवेशिक   काल  , when it was  प्रयुक्त  only for the peninsula  और   is  derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq  ,  meaning ``  the  mainland '' or , more literally , `` the object  towards  which the  कार्रवाई  of the sea is directed '' .
It  is  also  ज्ञात  as  alyeska  , the  ``  great  जमीन   ''  , an Aleut word derived from the same root .
Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University ( NMMU ) is a  दक्षिण  African tertiary education institution with its main administration in the coastal city  of  Port  एलिज़ाबेथ  .
A merging  of  three institutions  संस्थापित  NMMU in January  2005  but  इसके  history dates back to 1882 with  the  foundation  of  Port Elizabeth Art School  .
the  University draws international students from  सब  over the world .
There  हैं   over  3000 international students and include students from the United  राज्य  , France , China , Germany , Belgium , Denmark , Finland , Netherlands , Norway ,  स्वीडन  , United Kingdom and  अनेक  other countries .
NMMU is a comprehensive university  offering  professional and vocational  प्रशिक्षण  .
The University has six campuses - five in  बंदरगाहों  Elizabeth and one  in  George .
the  main campus is the  दक्षिण  Campus  .
Students at  nmmu  can study towards diplomas and degrees up to and including  डॉक्टरेट  level  योग्यता  .
a  number of courses include workplace experience as part of the  curriculum  .
CoverGirl  is  an American cosmetics brand founded in  मेरीलैंड   ,  by the Noxzema  रासायनिक  Company ( later called Noxell ) and acquired by  procter  &  gamble  in 1989 .
the  Noxell Company  advertised  this cosmetics line by allowing ``  कवर  girls '' , fashion  मॉडल  who appear on the front cover of women 's  मैगज़ीन  , to wear its products .
CoverGirl makes  up  for lack of direct individual customer service  by  providing a wide variety  of  cosmetics available at reasonable prices .
On the  उत्पत्ति  of Species , published on  24  November 1859 , is a work of scientific literature by Charles Darwin which is considered to be the foundation of evolutionary  जीवविज्ञान  .
Its full title was On the  उत्पत्ति  of Species by Means of Natural Selection , or  the  Preservation of Favoured Races  in  the  संघर्ष  for Life .
For the sixth  संस्करण  of 1872 ,  the  short title was changed to The Origin of Species .
Darwin 's book introduced the scientific theory that  populations  evolve over  the  course of generations through a process  of   प्राकृतिक   चयन  .
It  प्रस्तुत  a body of evidence that  the  diversity of life arose by common descent  through  a branching pattern of evolution .
Darwin included evidence that he  था  gathered on the Beagle expedition in the 1830s and his subsequent  निष्कर्षों  from research ,  पत्राचार  , and experimentation .
Various evolutionary ideas had already been proposed  to   बताइये  new findings in biology .
वहीँ  was growing  support  for  ऐसे   विचार  among dissident anatomists and  the  general public , but during the first half of the 19th century the English  वैज्ञानिक  establishment was closely tied to the Church of England , while science was part  of   प्राकृतिक  theology .
Ideas about  the  transmutation of species were  विवादास्पद   as  they conflicted with the beliefs that species were unchanging  भाग  of a designed  पदानुक्रम  and that  इंसानो  were unique , unrelated to other animals .
The political and theological  implications  were intensely  debated  , but transmutation was not  स्वीकृत   by  the scientific mainstream .
The  किताब  was written for non-specialist readers and attracted  फैली  interest upon its publication  .
As Darwin was an eminent scientist , his findings  यहूद   लिया  seriously and the  प्रमाण  he presented generated scientific , philosophical  ,  and religious discussion .
The debate  over   the  book contributed to the campaign by  t.h  .  हक्स्ले  and his  fellow  members  of  the X Club to secularise science by promoting scientific naturalism .
भीतर  two decades  वहीँ  was widespread scientific agreement that  एवोल्यूशन   ,  with a branching  पैटर्न  of common descent , had occurred  ,  but  वैज्ञानिकों  were slow to give natural selection the significance that Darwin thought appropriate .
दौरान   the  `` eclipse of Darwinism `` from the  1880s  to the 1930s , various other mechanisms of evolution  यहूद   दिए  more credit .
With the development of the modern evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s , Darwin 's concept of evolutionary adaptation through natural selection became  सेंट्रल  to modern evolutionary theory  ,  now the unifying concept of the  जीवन  sciences .
Charles Dillon `` Casey '' Stengel (  ;  July 30 , 1890 – September 29 , 1975 )  ,  nicknamed `` The Old Perfessor  ''  , was  an  American Major League Baseball outfielder and manager  .
He was elected to the Baseball Hall of  कीर्ति  in  .
Stengel  थी   born  in  कान्सास   नगर  , Missouri ,  और  originally nicknamed `` Dutch '' ,  a  common nickname at that time for Americans of  जर्मनी  ancestry .
After  उसके  major  लीग  career  began  , he acquired the nickname `` Casey '' , which originally came from the initials of  उसके  hometown ( `` K. C. '' ) , which evolved into  ``  Casey '' , influenced by the wide popularity of the poem Casey at the Bat  .
In the 1950s , sportswriters  उतावले  him with yet  another  nickname , ``  the  Old Professor  ''   (  or `` Perfessor '' )  ,  for his sharp wit and his ability to talk at length on  anything  baseball -related .
Although his  बेसबॉल  career spanned a  क्रमांक  of teams  और  cities , he is primarily associated with clubs in New York City  .
between  playing and managing , he is the  तभी  man to have worn four of New York 's major league clubs ' uniforms .
He  थी  the first of  चार  men  (   through  the season )  to  manage both  the   नई  York  यांकीज़  and New  यॉर्क  Mets ;  योगी  Berra ,  डलास  Green , and Joe  टोरेस   हैं  the  अन्य  .
Like Torre , he also managed the Braves and the Dodgers .
He ended his baseball career as the beloved manager  लिये  the then  विस्तार  New York Mets ,  जिससे  won over the hearts of  नई  York  partly  due to  the  unique character of their veteran  नेता  .
June (  )  is the sixth month of the  साल  in  the   जूलियन  and Gregorian calendars and one of the four months  साथ  a length of  30  days .
Ovid provides two etymologies for June  's   नाम  in his poem concerning the months entitled the Fasti .
The first is that  the   माह  is  नामित  after the Roman goddess Juno , wife  of  Jupiter and  समतुल्य  to the Greek goddess Hera ; the  दूसरी  is that the name comes from  the  Latin word iuniores ,  अर्थ  `` younger ones ,  ''  as opposed to maiores (  ``  elders '' ) for which  the  preceding month  may  may be  नामित   (   fasti  VI.1–88 ) .
See  :   महीने  in  विभिन्न  calendars also called the season of the June is the month with the longest daylight hours of  the  year in the Northern Hemisphere and  the  shortest daylight  घंटों  of the year in the Southern  गोलार्ध   .
जून  in the  उत्तरी   गोलार्ध  is the seasonal equivalent to December in the Southern  गोलार्ध  and vice versa .
In  the   उत्तरी  hemisphere ,  the  beginning of the meteorological  गर्मियाँ   is  1 June .
In the Southern hemisphere , the beginning of the meteorological winter  is  1  जून   .
At the start of June ,  the   सूर्य  rises in the constellation of Taurus  ;   at   the  end of  जून  , the sun rises in  the   नक्षत्र  of  मिथुन  .
However , due to the  precession   of  the equinoxes  ,  June  begins  with the sun in the astrological sign of Gemini  ,  and  ends  with the sun in the astrological sign  of   कर्कट   .
June is known for the large number of marriages that occur over the course of  the  month .
according  to one etymology , June is named after  juno  (  hera  )  .
Juno was the goddess of marriage and a married couple 's  household  ,  so  some consider it good luck to be married in this month .
according  to  another  etymology provided  by   the  Roman poet  ओविड  , June is named for the  iuniores  , latin for `` young  लोगों  '' ( Fasti VI.88 ) and  कि  the month of  may  is named for the maiores ,  लैटिन  for `` elders '' .
In Iceland , folklore says  कि  if you bathe naked in the morning dew on the  morning  of  जून  24 , you  हैं  supposed to keep aging at bay for  longer  .
a  constitution is  a  set  of  fundamental  सिद्धान्त  or established precedents according to which a state or other organization is governed .
These rules  साथ   मेक  up , i.e . constitute  ,  what  the   एंटिटी  is .
जब  these  सिद्धान्त  are written down into  a  single document or set of legal documents , those documents may be  कहा  to embody a  लिखा   संविधान  ; if they are  लिखा  down in a single  व्यापक  document ,  it  is said to embody  a  codified  संविधान  .
Constitutions concern different  स्तर  of organizations , from sovereign  राज्य  to companies and unincorporated associations .
A treaty which establishes an international organization is also its constitution , in that it  होता   define  how that organization is  गठित  .
भीतर  states , whether sovereign or federated , a constitution defines the principles upon which the state  is  based , the procedure in  जिससे  laws are made and  by   जिसको   .
Some constitutions  ,   विशेषकर  codified  constitutions  , also act as limiters of state power ,  by   establishing  lines which a state 's rulers can not cross , such as  आधारभूत  rights .
जार्ज  Washington at Constitutional Convention of 1787 ,  हस्ताक्षर  of U.S.  संविधान  .
The  संविधान  of India is the longest written  संविधान  of any  sovereign  country in the world , containing 448  आलेख  ,  12  schedules and  100  amendments , with 117,369 words  in  its  अंग्रेज़ी   भाषा  version , while the United States Constitution is the shortest written  संविधान  , at 7 articles and 27  amendments  .
Ron  diftler   (  left )  ,  NASA Robonaut  मैनेजर  assisting  in  a Robonaut  familiarization  training  सत्र  in the Space Environment Simulation Laboratory at NASA 's Johnson  स्पेस  Center  .
Engineering management is  a  specialized form of management that is  चिंतित  with the application of  अभियान्त्रिकी  principles  to  business  अभ्यास  .
Engineering  प्रबन्धन  is a  करियर  that brings together the technological  problem-solving  savvy of engineering and the  organizational  , administrative ,  और  planning abilities of  प्रबन्धन  in order  to  oversee complex  उद्यमों  from conception  to  completion .
Example  क्षेत्रों  of engineering are product development , manufacturing , construction  ,  design  अभियान्त्रिकी   ,  industrial engineering  ,  technology , production ,  or  any other field that employs personnel who perform an  अभियान्त्रिकी  function  .
कामयाब  engineering managers  typically  require training and experience in business and engineering  .
Technically inept managers tend to be deprived  of  support by their technical team ,  और  non-commercial  प्रबंधक  tend to  कमी   वाणिज्यिक  acumen to deliver in a market economy .
Largely  ,  engineering  प्रबंधक  manage engineers who are driven  by   non-entrepreneurial  thinking ,  यूँ  require the  जरुरी  people  कौशल   to  coach , mentor and motivate technical professionals  .
Engineering professionals joining manufacturing companies sometimes become engineering managers by default after  a  period of time .
वे  are  जरूरी  to  सीख  how to manage once they  हैं  on  the  job , though this is usually an ineffective way to  develop  managerial abilities  .
in   an  insurance policy , the deductible is the amount of expenses that must  be  paid  आउट   of  pocket before an insurer will pay  कोई  expenses .
In general  उपयोग  , the  पद   deductible  may be used to describe one of several types of  clauses   (  see below ) that are used  by  insurance companies as a threshold for policy payments .
Deductibles  हैं  typically used to deter the  विशाल  number of  नगण्य  claims that a  उपभोक्ता   can  be reasonably expected  to  bear  the  cost of  .
by  restricting its coverage  to  events  कि  are significant enough  to  incur  विशाल  costs , the insurance firm expects  to   अदा  out slightly smaller amounts much less frequently ,  रूष्ट  much  उच्चतर   बचत  .
As a result , insurance premiums are typically cheaper when they  involve   उच्चतर  deductibles .
deductibles  are  सामान्यतः  provided as clauses in an  बीमे  policy that  dictate  how much of an insurance-covered expense is  borne  by the policyholder  .
They  हैं  normally quoted as a fixed quantity and is a part of most policies covering losses to the  नीति   होल्डर  .
The insurer  तब  becomes liable for claimable expenses that exceed this amount ( subject to  the  maximum sum claimable indicated in the contract ) .
Depending  on  the policy , the deductible may apply per covered  घटना   ,  or per year  .
For policies where  incidences  are not  आसान  to delimit  (  for example health insurance  )  , the deductible  is   typically   लागू  per year .
Several deductibles can be  नियत  by  the   insurer  based on the cause  of  the claim .
For example , a single housing insurance  नीति  may contain multiple deductible  amounts  for loss  or  damage arising from  चोरी   ,  fire , natural  calamities  , evacuation etc .
वहीँ  are  भी  deductible reimbursement programs that  reimburse  a  deductible  in  the  event of  an  auto  ,   घर  , boat/yacht or health insurance claim .
An invoice or bill is a  वाणिज्यिक  document issued by  a  seller to  a   खरीदार  , indicating the  उत्पाद  , quantities , and agreed  कीमतें  for products or services the seller has provided the buyer .
An invoice indicates the sale  लेनदेन  only .
भुगतान   शर्तें  are independent of  the  invoice and are negotiated by the  खरीदार  and the seller  .
Payment terms are usually included on the  चालान  .
The buyer could  have  already paid for  the  products  or  services listed on the invoice .
Buyer can also have a maximum number  of  days in which to pay for these goods and is sometimes offered  a  discount if paid  पहले  the due date .
In the rental industry , an invoice must include a specific reference to the  अवधि   of  the time being  billed  , so in addition to quantity ,  दाम  and  छूट   the  invoicing  राशि   is  also based on duration  .
generally  each line of a rental invoice will refer  to  the actual hours , days ,  सप्ताह  , months ,  etc.  , being billed .
From the point of view of a seller , an invoice  is   a  sales invoice  .
From the  पाइंट  of view of a buyer , an invoice is a purchase  चालान  .
The document indicates the  खरीदार  and  विक्रेता  , but  the  term invoice indicates money is owed  or  owing  .
In English , the context  of   the  term invoice is usually used  to  clarify its meaning , such as `` We sent them an invoice '' ( they owe us money ) or `` We received an invoice from them '' ( we owe them  धन  )  .
The right main bronchus ( or  सही   प्राथमिक  bronchus , or right principal bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory system .
It  is   wider  , shorter , and more vertical  in  direction than the left .
It is  परिचय  2.5 cm  long  , and enters  the  right lung nearly opposite  the   पांचवां   thoracic  vertebra .
the   azygos  vein arches  over  it  इससे  behind ; and the  सही   pulmonary  artery lies  at  first below and then in front of  it  .
About 2 cm  इससे  its commencement it gives off a branch  to  the upper lobe of the right lung .
इस  is termed the eparterial branch  of  the bronchus  ,   क्युकी  it  arises  above the right pulmonary artery .
The bronchus now  गुजरता   नीचे  the artery  ,  and is known  as  the hyparterial  शाखा  ; it divides into two branches for the  मध्य  and lower lobes  .
If a foreign  देह  in the airway passes  through  the trachea  ,  it  होगा  most likely  डालें  the right main bronchus  बजाय  of the  बाएँ  , due to the  straighter  alignment of the right bronchus  to   the  trachea .
स्क्वैश  is  a  racquet sport played  by  two (  singles  )  or  four players  (  doubles ) in a four-walled court with a small ,  खोखला  rubber ball .
The players must alternate in striking the ball with their racquet and hit the ball onto the playable surfaces of  the  four walls of the court .
The game  थी   formerly  called squash racquets , a  सन्दर्भ   to  the `` squashable '' soft ball used in the game ( compared  साथ  the fatter ball  प्रयुक्त   in  its parent game  racquets  or  rackets  ) .
Squash is recognized by the IOC  और  supporters are lobbying  लिये  its  incorporation  in a future Olympic program .
in   2003  , Forbes rated squash as the number one healthiest sport  to   खेल  .
Residual oil is  आयल  found  in  low  एकाग्रता  naturally or in exhausted oil fields .
Often mixed with water , it can not be recovered by conventional techniques .
However , it  can  be recovered using  कार्बन  dioxide-enhanced  आयल  recovery ( CO2 EOR )  जिससे  involves injecting carbon  डाइऑक्साइड   into  the well  reducing   श्यानता  and enhancing flow of the oil .
The technique is not new but has not been used extensively on  अवशेष  oil zones , low-grade  जमा  of petroleum such as the 38 square  मील  in the Permian Basin of Texas leased  by  Elliott Roosevelt Jr  .
The technique is  सीमित   by  availability of  कार्बन   डाइऑक्साइड  .
It  करता  not result in sequestration of the carbon dioxide but  the  gas is recycled  as  much as possible .
United States  reserves  of residual oil  हैं  estimated to be 100 billion barrels .
Artist 's rendering of  the   आग  , by  जॉन  R. Chapin , originally printed in Harper 's Weekly ; the  दृश्य  faces northeast across the  randolph  Street Bridge .
The Great Chicago  आग  was a conflagration that burned from Sunday  ,   अक्तूबर  8 , to early Tuesday , October 10 , 1871  ,  killing hundreds and destroying  परिचय  in Chicago ,  इलिनोइस  .
Though the fire was one of the largest U.S. disasters of the 19th century , the  पुनर्निर्माण   कि  began helped develop  शिकागो  as  एक   of  the most populous and economically important American cities  .
हेनरी  VIII ( 28 June 1491  –  28 January 1547  )  was  किंग  of England from 21 April 1509 until  उसके  death .
He was lord , and  बाद  king , of  आयरलैंड   ,  as well as continuing  the  nominal claim by  the  English monarchs to the Kingdom of France .
हेनरी  was  the  second monarch of the  ट्यूडर  dynasty , succeeding his father , Henry  सात  .
Besides his six  विवाह  , Henry VIII is known for  उसके   भूमिका  in the separation of the Church of England from the Roman  कैथोलिक  Church .
Henry  's  struggles with Rome led to  the  separation of the Church of England from papal  प्राधिकार  ,  the  Dissolution of the Monasteries  ,  and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England .
yet  he  remained  a believer in core Catholic  theological  teachings ,  भी  after his excommunication from the  रोमन  Catholic Church  .
हेनरी   oversaw  the legal union of  इंग्लैण्ड  and  वेल्स  with the Laws in Wales  अधिनियमों  1535 and 1542 .
In 1513 , the new king allied with the Holy Roman Emperor  ,   maximillian  I  ,  and  invaded  France in 1513 with  a  large , well-equipped army , but achieved little  at  a  considerable  financial cost .
maximillian  , for  उसके   भाग   ,  used the  अंग्रेज़ी  invasion to his  अपना  ends ,  और  this  prejudiced  England 's  क्षमता  to defeat the French .
This foray would  prove  the  प्रारंभ   of  an obsession for Henry , who invaded again in 1544 .
इस  time , Henry 's forces  captured  the important city of Boulogne ,  लकिन  again the Holy Roman Emperor ,  चार्ल्स  V  ,   समर्थित  Henry only as  long  as he needed to and England ,  strained  by  the   विशाल  cost  of  the war , ransomed  the  city back for peace  .
His contemporaries considered Henry in  उसके   प्रधान  to  be   an  attractive ,  शिक्षित  and accomplished king , and  he  has  महरूम  described as `` one  of  the  सबसे  charismatic rulers to  बैठना   on  the English throne '' .
Besides ruling with  निरपेक्ष  power , he also engaged himself as an author and composer .
His desire  to   provide   इंग्लैण्ड   साथ  a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity  और  partly because  he  believed a daughter would  be  unable  to  consolidate  the  Tudor dynasty and the fragile peace that existed  following  the Wars of the Roses – led to  the   दो   बाते  for which Henry is most remembered : his  छह  marriages and the  अंग्रेज़ी  Reformation .
Henry became morbidly obese and his  स्वास्थ्य  suffered , contributing to his death  in  1547  .
he  is frequently characterised in his later life  as   a  lustful , egotistical , harsh ,  और  insecure  किंग  .
La Reina del Sur ( The Queen of the South  )  is a Spanish-language telenovela produced by  the  United States  टेलीविज़न  network Telemundo  ,  in conjunction with  the   एंटेना  3 network  और  RTI Producciones  .
Based on a novel of the same name by  स्पेनी   लेखक  Arturo Pérez-Reverte , the drama  depicts  the rise of  टेरेसा  Mendoza ( Kate del Castillo ) , a young woman from  मैक्सिको  who becomes the most powerful drug trafficker in  दक्षिणी   स्पेन  .
Patricio Wills , the president of Telemundo Television Studios , was the executive producer .
Though La  reina  del Sur was nominated for Novela of  the   साल  , Favorite Lead Actress ,  और  Best Bad  लक   वीडियो  , it won no awards .
With a $  10   लाख  budget  ,  La Reina del Sur was the most expensive telenovela  कभी  produced by Telemundo  .
The program 's premiere on  फ़रवरी  28  ,  2011 ,  थी   the   संजाल  's highest  रेटेड  premiere for  a  telenovela  to   तिथि  .
The  कार्यक्रम  frequently dominated its  समय  slot , even over  अंग्रेज़ी  language  प्रोग्रामिंग  on other major  u.S.   संजाल  .
La Reina del  सूर  completed  इसके  63 episode  चलाएं  on Telemundo  और  its 13 episode run on  एंटेना  3 simultaneously on May 30 , 2011 .
The final episode was the highest rated broadcast in Telemundo 's 19-year history  (  4.2 million viewers ) , and beat all of the English language U.S. television networks to earn the number one slot in the 18-49 adult  जनसांख्यिकी  .
The program 's success spurred Telemundo to launch its first campaign  to  gain the series  an   एमी  Award  नामांकन  .
a  one-night special featuring several  डाल  members aired on May  31  , 2011 , and marked the  telemundo  debut  of   विख्यात  Latina  टेलीविज़न  personality Cristina Saralegui .
La Reina del Sur is  ब्रॉडकास्ट  in several other  बाज़ार  , including Serbia ,  कोलंबिया  , Chile , Cyprus ,  निकारागुआ  , Costa  रिका  ,  मैक्सिको  , Albania ,  हंगेरियाई  , Slovenia  ,  Croatia  ,  Romania , ( among others ) .
An example of rack mounted servers
A  वेब  hosting  सेवा  is  a  type of  अंतरजाल  hosting service that allows individuals  और   संगठन  to make their website accessible via the  संसार  Wide Web .
Web hosts are  कंपनियाँ  that  provide  space on a  सर्वर  owned or leased for  उपयोग  by clients  ,  as well as providing Internet connectivity  ,  typically  in  a data center .
Web hosts can also provide data center  स्पेस  and connectivity to the Internet for  अन्य  servers located in their data center ,  पुकारा   colocation  , also  ज्ञात   as  Housing in  लैटिन   अमेरिका   or  France  .
the  scope of web  होस्टिंग  services varies greatly .
the  most basic is web page and small-scale file  होस्टिंग  , where files can  be  uploaded via  संचिका  Transfer Protocol  (  FTP ) or  a  Web interface .
The files are usually delivered to the Web  ``  as is  ''  or  साथ   minimal  processing .
अनेक  Internet  सेवा  providers ( ISPs  )  offer this service free  to  subscribers .
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web  पेज  hosting  इससे  alternative service providers .
निजी   वेब  site hosting is typically free ,  advertisement-sponsored  , or inexpensive .
Business web site hosting often has a higher expense  depending  upon  the  size and type of the website .
Single page hosting is generally sufficient  लिये  personal web pages .
A complex site  काल्स   लिये  a more comprehensive package that provides database support  और  application development  प्लेटफ़ॉर्म  ( e.g . PHP ,  जावा   ,   माणिक्य   on  Rails , ColdFusion , or ASP.NET )  .
ये  facilities  allow  customers  to  write  or   स्थापना  scripts for applications like forums  और  content management .
भी  , Secure Sockets Layer  (  SSL )  is  typically used for e-commerce .
The host may also provide an  इंटरफ़ेस   or   कंट्रोल  panel  लिये   मैनेजिंग   the  Web  सर्वर   और  installing scripts , as well as other modules  और  service applications like  e-mail  .
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services  (  e.g . e-commerce  )  , which are commonly used by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure .
Madden NFL ( known as John Madden  फ़ुटबॉल  before 1993 ) is an American football video game  श्रेणी  developed by Electronic Arts Tiburon for EA Sports  .
The game series is  नामित  after  प्रो  Football Hall of  famer  John Madden , a well-known former Super  कटोरी  –winning coach  of  the Oakland Raiders and color commentator .
The series  is  the best  selling   ea  Sports series  .
The  खेल  have consistently  महरूम  a  बेहतरीन  seller , and  रै  even spawned TV  shows   जहाँ  players compete  .
Among the  खेल   's  realistic  सुविधाएँ   शामिल  sophisticated playbooks and  खिलाड़ी  statistics , and voice commentary that allows  खिलाड़ी   to  hear  the   खेल  as if it were a real TV broadcast .
The Madden NFL series has been nicknamed the NFL  's   33rd  Franchise .
the  series was  originally   conceived   by  Electronic Arts founder Trip Hawkins , who then  approached  Madden in  1984  for his  समर्थन  and expertise  .
due  to Madden 's insistence  कि   the  game be as  यथार्थवादी   as  possible ,  the  first version  of  John  मैडेन  Football was not  released  until 1988 .
The second version  of  the game  थी  released in 1990  ,  with annual versions since then .
The series '  नाम  was changed to Madden  एनएफएल  in 1993 after  ea  acquired  the  rights to use NFL teams and players  .
Despite Madden  's   रिटायरमेंट  as a broadcaster in 2009 , he continues  to   lend   उसके  name  और  provide expertise for the  खेल  .
Cindy  ली  Miller Sheehan ( born July 10 ,  1957  ) is an American antiwar  activist  whose son , U.S. Army Specialist  केसी  Sheehan , was killed by  दुश्मन  action during the Iraq War .
वो   आकर्षित  national  और  international media attention in August 2005 for her extended antiwar protest  at  a  makeshift  camp  बाहर  President George W.  बुश  's Texas ranch —a stand that drew  दोनो  passionate support and angry criticism .
Sheehan  भागा  unsuccessfully  लिये  Congress in  2008  .
She is  a  vocal critic of President Barack Obama 's foreign  नीति  .
Her memoir  ,   सलाम  Mom : A  माँ  's Journey Through Heartache  to  Activism , was published in  2006   .
Sheehan  थी  the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the  सलाम  and Freedom Party .
Wyclef Jeanelle Jean ( ;  ;  born October 17 ,  1969  )  wyclef  Dumped From Haiti 's Presidential Ballot – TIME  ,  Aug 21 , 2010 .
``  पहले  he announced on August 5 that he was  कार्यशील  for President of Haiti , Wyclef  जां  was still listing his age as only 37 years  बूढ़ा  .
But after declaring himself a presidential candidate ,  the  Haitian-American-Irish hip-hop  स्टार  also  decided  to come clean and confirm  कि  he  थी  really 40 .  ''  is a  three-time   ग्रैमी  Award -winning Haitian-American rapper ,  singer-songwriter   ,  musician ,  रिकार्ड  producer , and politician  .
At age  नौ  , Jean  स्थानांतरित  to the United States  साथ  his  परिवार   और   रै  spent much  of  his life in  the  country .
he  first received fame as a member of the acclaimed New Jersey hip hop group the Fugees .
On August 5 , 2010  ,  Jean filed for candidacy  in  the 2010 Haitian presidential election , although the Electoral Commission subsequently ruled  उसे  ineligible to  स्टैंड   as  he  था   नहीं  met  the   आवश्यकता  to  have  been resident in Haiti  लिये   पाँच  years .
wyclef  Jean to appeal against Haiti election ruling – BBC News  ,  Aug 22 , 2010 .
Haiti 's electoral commission  कहा  that Mr Jean was ineligible to stand  as  the Haitian constitution requires candidates to have lived in the country for five years prior to an  चुनाव  .
The 40-year-old singer lives  in  the US  .
Jean 's efforts at earthquake relief  ,  highly  publicized  in 2010 throughout  हैती  and the United  राज्य  , were channeled through his charitable organization , Yéle Haiti .
The charity , which performed a variety of charitable works in  हैती  between 2005 and 2010 , effectively closed in 2012 .
In law , a set-off is a statutory defense to  the  whole or to a portion of  a  plaintiff 's claim  .
It had no  अस्तित्व   अंतर्गत  the English common law  ,  being created by  2  Geo . II c. 22 for the relief of insolvent debtors , although set-off was recognized in  इक्विटी  .
Such a defense could be  pleaded  only in respect of mutual debts of a definite character  ,  and did not apply to cases  in  which  क्षतिपूर्ति  were claimed  ,  nor to equitable claims or demands .
by  the rules of the Supreme Court ( O. XIX . r. 3 ) a  प्रतिवादी  in  an  action may set off or  नियत  up any right or claim by way  of  counterclaim against the claims of a plaintiff , and such set-off  or  counterclaim has the same effect as a statement of claim in a  cross-action   .
The legal defense  of  set-off ( above ) was originally introduced to prevent the unfair situation whereby a person  (  `` Party A  ''  ) who owed  धन  to another ( ``  पार्टी  B '' ) could be sent to debtors prison , despite the fact that Party  b  also owed money to Party  a  .
the  law thus allows both parties to  टालना  payment until their respective claims have  महरूम   सुना  in  अदालत  .
Upon judgment , both claims  हैं  extinguished and  replaced  by  a  single net  योग   owing  ( e.g  .  If Party  a  owes Party B 100 and Party B  owes  Party A 105 , the two sums are set off  और   replaced   साथ  a single obligation of 5 from Party B to Party A  )  .
Set-off can also be incorporated by  contractual  agreement  so  that , where a  पार्टी  defaults , the mutual amounts owing are  automatically  set off and  बुझे  .
in  certain jurisdictions ( including the UK ) , set-off takes place automatically upon the  insolvency  of a company .
This means  कि  , for each party  जिससे  is both a  creditor  and  debtor  of the insolvent company , mutual debts are set-off against each  अन्य  , and  तब  either the  दिवालिया  's creditor  can  claim  the  balance in the bankruptcy or the trustee in bankruptcy can ask for  the  balance remaining to be paid , depending on which side owed  the  most .
इस   रै   महरूम  criticized  as  an undeclared security  ब्याज  that  violates  the principle of pari  passu  .
the   वैकल्पिक  , where  a  creditor has  to  pay all  इसके   debts  ,  लकिन  receive only  a  limited portion  of  the leftover  moneys   कि   अन्य  unsecured creditors get , poses the  खतरे  of  'knock-on  ' insolvencies .
The right  to  set off is  विशेषकर   महत्वपूर्ण  when reporting a bank 's exposures to regulatory authorities  .
The situation where a bank has to  रपट  that it has lent a  विशाल  sum to a borrower  (  and is therefore  उजागर  , because there  is  a risk that the borrower might default thereby leading to the loss of  the   बैंको  's or its depositors  '  money ) is  यूँ  replaced ( where the bank has  लिया   सुरक्षा   over  shares or securities of the borrower ) with an exposure of the money lent  ऋण  the  मान  of the security taken .
Jennifer  joanna   एनिस्टन  ( born February 11 , 1969 ) is an  अमरीकी  actress , film director , and producer .
Aniston gained worldwide recognition in the 1990s for  portraying  Rachel  ग्रीन  on the television sitcom Friends ,  a   भूमिका  which earned her an Emmy Award , a  सुनहरी   ग्लोब  Award , and a  स्क्रीन  Actors Guild Award .
Aniston  रै  also enjoyed a successful Hollywood  फिल्मी  career  .
She gained critical acclaim for her performances in  the  independent films She 's the One  (  1996 ) , Office  स्पेस   (  1999 ) , The Good Girl (  2002  ) and Friends with Money ( 2006 ) .
She  रै   था  her greatest commercial successes with the films Bruce Almighty ( 2003  )  ,  the  Break-Up  (   2006   )  , Marley & Me ( 2008 ) , Just Go with It ( 2011  )  and Horrible  bosses  ( 2011 ) .
एनिस्टन  received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame  on  February 22 , 2012 .
A white Bengal tiger at the Houston Aquarium
(  video )
A White tiger at  tobu  Zoo  ,  in  saitama  , Japan .
The white tiger  is  a recessive mutant  of   the  Bengal tiger  ,  which was reported in the wild from time to time in Assam , Bengal  ,  Bihar and especially from the former State  of  Rewa .
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an  initialism  formed from  परिधीय  Component Interconnect , part  of  the  पीसीआई  Local Bus standard and often shortened  to  just PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching  हार्डवेयर  devices in  a  computer .
The PCI  बस  supports the  कृत्यों  found on a processor bus , but in a standardized format  कि  is independent of any  particular   प्रोसेसर   .
Devices connected to  the  bus appear to the  प्रोसेसर   to  be  कनेक्ट  directly to the processor bus , and are assigned addresses in the  प्रोसेसर  's  पता   स्पेस  .
संलग्न  devices can take either the form of an integrated circuit  fitted  onto the motherboard itself , called a planar device in  the  PCI  specification  , or an expansion  कार्ड   कि  fits into a  स्लॉट   .
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in IBM PC compatibles , where it displaced  the  combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration  .
It has subsequently been  अपनाया  for  अन्य  computer types .
PCI  और  PCI-X  हैं  being replaced  by   पीसीआई  Express  ,   लकिन  , most motherboards are still made with one or more PCI slots  ,  which are  sufficient   लिये   अनेक  uses  .
The PCI specification covers  the   शारीरिक   आकार  of the bus ( including the size and spacing of the circuit board edge electrical  सम्पर्क  )  ,   विद्युत  characteristics ,  बस  timing , and protocols .
The specification can be  खरीदा  from the  पीसीआई  Special  ब्याज  Group ( PCI-SIG ) .
Typical PCI cards  प्रयुक्त  in PCs include  :  network cards ,  ध्वनि  cards , modems  ,  extra ports such as USB or  सीरियल   ,  TV  ट्यूनर  cards  और   डिस्क   परिरक्षक   .
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards , until growing bandwidth requirements outgrew the capabilities  of  PCI ; the preferred interface for  वीडियो   ताश  became AGP , and then PCI Express .
PCI video cards  remain  available for use  साथ  old PCs without  अगप  or PCI Express  स्लॉट  .
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards  हैं  now commonly integrated  onto  motherboards or  उपलब्धियाँ   in  universal  सीरियल   बस  and PCI Express versions .
कैफीन   is  a  कड़वा  , white  crystalline  xanthine  एल्कलॉएड   कि  acts as  a  stimulant drug  .
Caffeine  is  found  in  varying quantities in the seeds , leaves  ,  and  फल  of some  पौधे  , where it acts as  a  natural  कीटनाशक  that paralyzes and kills  निश्चित  insects feeding on  the  plants , as well as enhancing the reward memory  of  pollinators .
It is most  commonly  consumed  by  humans in infusions extracted from the seed of the coffee plant and the leaves of the tea bush , as well as from various foods  और  drinks containing products derived  इससे  the kola nut .
Other  स्त्रोत  include yerba  maté  , guarana berries , guayusa , and the  yaupon  holly  .
in  humans , caffeine acts as a central nervous system stimulant  ,   temporarily  warding off drowsiness and restoring alertness .
it  is  the   संसार  's most widely consumed psychoactive drug , but unlike many other psychoactive substances ,  it  is legal and unregulated in  nearly  all parts of the world .
Beverages containing  कैफीन   ,  such as coffee , tea  ,  soft drinks , and energy drinks , enjoy great popularity .
In North America , 90 % of adults  consume   कैफीन  daily .
भाग  of  the  reason caffeine  is  classified by the  खाना  and Drug Administration as GRAS ( generally recognized as safe  )  is that toxic doses ( over 10 grams ) are much higher than typically used  doses   (  less than 500 milligrams )  .
ordinary  consumption can have low health risks , even when  carried  on for years –  वहीँ  may be a modest protective  प्रभाव  against some diseases , including Parkinsons Disease , and certain types of cancer .
Caffeine  can  have both positive and  ऋणात्मक  effects on anxiety disorders .
Some  लोगों   अनुभव   नींद  disruption if they consume caffeine , especially during the evening hours , but others show little disturbance and the effect of caffeine on  नींद  is  अत्यधिक  variable .
Evidence of a risk to pregnancy is equivocal , but  कुछ  authorities have  concluded   कि  prudent  सलाह  is  लिये  pregnant women to limit  खपत  to  the  equivalent of two cups of coffee per day or less .
The American Congress of Obstetricians and  स्त्रीरोग  (  acog  ) concluded in  2010  that caffeine consumption is safe  up  to 200 mg  प्रति  day  in  pregnant women .
Caffeine has pressor and mild diuretic  प्रभाव  when administered  to   लोगों  who are not used to it , but regular users  develop   a   सहिष्णुता  to this effect , and  अध्ययन  have generally failed to  support   the  common notion that ordinary consumption contributes  significantly  to dehydration .
With heavy use , tolerance develops rapidly to  autonomic  effects  ऐसे  as elevated heart rate and muscle  twitching  ,  लकिन  not to the cognitive  or  arousal effects of caffeine .
the   उपाधि   to  which caffeine can produce clinically significant  शारीरिक  and mental dependence remains  a  subject of controversy in the medical literature .
A kicktail  क्रूजर
a   longboard  is a  longer  variant of a skateboard .
It is commonly used for cruising ,  downhill  racing , slalom racing , sliding , and/or transport .
स्त्रोत  outside  of  Wikipedia  दे  differing estimates:
The CIA 's World Factbook gives the world population  as  7,021,836,029 ( July 2012 est . )  और  the  वितरण  of religions as Christian 100 % ( of  जिससे  Roman Catholic 18.85  %  , Protestant  8.15  % , Orthodox 4.96 % , Anglican 1.26  %   )  ,  मुस्लिम  22.74 % , Hindu 13.8 % ,  बौद्ध  6.77 % , Sikh 0.35  %  , Jewish 0.22 % , Baha'i 0.11 %  ,  other religions 10.95 % , non-religious 9.66  %   ,  atheists 2.01 % .
( 2010 est . ) .
the  Coast Ranges of California span from Humboldt  काउंटी   ,  California south to  सांता  Barbara County  .
The  अन्य  three coastal California mountain ranges are the Transverse Ranges ,  प्रायद्वीपीय  Ranges and the Klamath  kyu  .
Physiographically , they  हैं   a  section of the larger Pacific Border province , which in turn  हैं  part  of  the larger Pacific Mountain System physiographic division  .
UNESCO has included the `` California Coast Ranges Biosphere Reserve  ``   in  its Man and the  जीवमंडल  Programme  of  World Network of Biosphere Reserves since  1983   .
Vehicles in use per country  इससे  2001 to  2007   .
It shows the significant growth in BRIC .
World map of  यात्री  cars per 1000 people
An automobile , autocar  ,  motor car or car is a wheeled motor  गाडी   प्रयुक्त  for  transporting  passengers , which also carries  इसके  own engine or  मोटर  .
Most definitions of the term specify that automobiles  हैं   designed  to  चलाएं   primarily  on roads , to have  seating  for one to eight people , to typically have four wheels , and to be constructed principally for the transport of people  बल्कि  than goods .
the  term motorcar  रै  also been used in the context of electrified rail systems to denote a car which functions as a small  लोकोमोटिव  but also provides space for passengers and baggage  .
These  लोकोमोटिव  cars were often used on suburban routes by both interurban and intercity railroad  प्रणालियों  .
It was  अनुमानित  in 2010  कि  the number  of   ऑटोमोबाइल  had risen to over 1  अरब  vehicles ,  up   इससे   the  500 million of 1986 .
The numbers are increasing rapidly , especially in China and India .
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29 , 1917  –  November  22  , 1963 ) , often referred to by  उसके  initials JFK , was the 35th President  of  the United States  ,  serving  इससे   1961   जबतक  his death in 1963  .
बाद   सैन्य  service as commander  of  the Motor Torpedo Boats  pt-109  and  pt-59  during World  युद्ध  II in  the  South Pacific , Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in  the  U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to  1953  as  a  Democrat .
thereafter  , he served in the  u.S.  Senate from 1953 until 1960 .
Kennedy  पराजित  Vice  अध्यक्ष  and Republican candidate Richard Nixon in the  1960  U.S. presidential election .
at   43   सालो  of age  ,  he is the youngest to have been elected  to  the office ,  the   second-youngest  President ( after Theodore Roosevelt ) , and the first  व्यक्ति  born in the  20th  century  to  serve as  अध्यक्ष  .
A Catholic , Kennedy is the only non- Protestant president , and is the only president to have won a Pulitzer Prize .
Events during his presidency  शामिल  the Bay of Pigs Invasion  ,   the   क्यूबन  Missile Crisis , the building of the Berlin Wall  ,  the Space  रेस  , the  african-american  Civil Rights Movement  ,  and  जल्दी  stages of  the   वियतनाम  War .
Therein , Kennedy increased the number of military advisers , special operation forces , and helicopters in  an  effort to curb  the   स्प्रेड  of communism in South  ईस्ट  Asia .
the   कैनेडी  administration adopted  the   नीति  of the Strategic  हैमलेट   कार्यक्रम  which  थी   implemented  by the South Vietnamese government .
it   शामिल  certain  मजबूर  relocation , village  internment  , and segregation of rural South Vietnamese from the  उत्तरी  and  दक्षिणी  communist  insurgents  .
Kennedy was assassinated on November 22 , 1963  in  Dallas ,  टेक्सास  .
Lee  घनघोर  Oswald  थी  charged  साथ  the crime , but he was shot  और  killed by Jack Ruby  दो  days  बाद  , before  a  trial could take place .
The FBI and the Warren Commission officially concluded that  ओसवाल्ड  was the  लोन  assassin .
however   ,  the United  राज्य  House Select Committee on Assassinations (  hsca  ) concluded  कि   those  investigations  यहूद  flawed and that  कैनेडी  was probably assassinated  as   the  result of a conspiracy .
However ,  एबीसी  News in their investigation , The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond  षड्यंत्र  , confirmed the findings of the Warren Commission ; having concluded  ओसवाल्ड  acted alone .
Kennedy 's  विवादास्पद  Department of Defense TFX fighter bomber program led to a Congressional investigation  कि  lasted from 1963 to 1970 .
Since the 1960s information concerning Kennedy 's private life has come to light .
Details  of  Kennedy 's health  समस्याएं  in  जिससे  he struggled have become better known , especially since  the   1990s  .
हालांकि  initially kept secret from the general  पब्लिक  , reports of  कैनेडी  's philandering have garnered much press .
Kennedy ranks  अत्यधिक   in   पब्लिक  opinion ratings of U.S.  राष्ट्रपतियों  .
a  Siemens MXL fire alarm control panel ( top ) and graphic annunciator  (  bottom ) for Potomac Hall , at James Madison University .
A Vigilant VM-1 fire  सचेतक  control unit (  facu  ) / autonomous  कंट्रोल  unit ( ACU ) with integrated voice evacuation and fire fighter telephone system  .
manufactured  by Edwards , A  utc   f   &   s  Company
A Fire Alarm  कंट्रोल  Panel ( FACP ) ,  or  Fire Alarm  कंट्रोल   ईकाई   (   facu   )   ,   is   the   controlling  component  of  a Fire  सचेतक  System .
The panel receives information from environmental sensors  designed  to detect changes  संबद्ध  with fire  ,  monitors their operational integrity and provides for automatic control of equipment  ,  and transmission of  सूचना  necessary to prepare  the  facility for  आग   आधारित  on a predetermined  अनुक्रम  .
The panel may  भी  supply electrical energy  to   operate  any associated sensor  ,  control ,  ट्रांसमीटर  , or  रिले  .
There are  चार  basic types of panels  :  coded panels , conventional  panels  , addressable panels , and multiplex systems  .
This is  a  list of the  पहला  music videos broadcast  on  MTV  's  first day , August 1 , 1981  .
MTV 's  पहला  day  on  the air was rebroadcast on VH1 Classic in  2006  and uploaded onto YouTube in 2010 ( although only the  पहला  four  घंटों  were  प्रामाणिक  ;  the  rest were edited VH1 rebroadcasts ) .
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA ) (  भी  known as Katunayake  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport and Colombo International Airport ) is one of  the  two  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  airports serving  the  city of Colombo , the  अन्य  is Ratmalana International Airport  .
Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport located in southern city  of  Hambantota  is  the other  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   विमानक्षेत्र  in Sri Lanka .
Bandaranaike International Airport is located in Katunayake , 22 miles  (  35 km ) north of  कोलोन   .
It  is  administered by  विमानक्षेत्र  and  विमानन  Services (  श्री  Lanka ) Ltd .
It is the hub of SriLankan  एयरलाइंस  ,  the  national carrier of Sri Lanka , and Mihin Lanka , the budget airline of Sri Lanka .
Black Swan is a 2010 American psychological thriller and horror film directed by Darren Aronofsky and starring  नताली   पोर्टमैन  , Vincent  cassel  , and Mila Kunis .
the  plot revolves  around  a  उत्पादन   of  Tchaikovsky 's Swan Lake ballet by  a  prestigious New York  नगर  company  .
The production  requires  a ballerina to play the innocent and  नाजुक  White Swan , for which the  वचनबद्ध  dancer Nina ( Portman ) is  a  perfect fit  ,  as well  as   the   अंधेरा   और  sensual Black Swan , which are qualities embodied by the new arrival Lily ( Kunis  )  .
Nina  is   अभिभूत  by  a  feeling of  immense  pressure when she finds herself competing for the part  ,  causing her to lose  उसके  tenuous  पकड़  on reality and descend into a living nightmare .
Aronofsky conceived  the  premise by connecting his viewings of a production  of  Swan Lake with an unrealized screenplay  परिचय  understudies  और  the notion of being haunted  by  a  दोगुना  , similar to the folklore  surrounding  doppelgängers .
Aronofsky cites Fyodor Dostoyevsky 's  ``  The Double `` as another inspiration for  the  film  .
the  director also considered  ब्लैक  Swan a companion piece  to  his 2008 film The  पहलवान  , with  दोनो  films  involving   demanding  performances for  अलग   kinds  of art  .
He and Portman first discussed the  प्रोजेक्ट  in 2000 , and  बाद  a brief attachment to Universal Studios  ,   ब्लैक  Swan was  उत्पादित  in New  यॉर्क  City in  2009   by  Fox Searchlight Pictures .
पोर्टमैन  and Kunis trained in ballet for several months prior  to   फिल्मांकन  , and  notable  figures from the ballet  संसार  helped with film production to shape the ballet presentation .
The film premiered as the opening film  लिये  the 67th Venice International Film Festival on September 1 , 2010 .
it  had a limited release in the  संयुक्त  States starting December  3  , 2010  और  opened nationwide on December 17 .
Black Swan received critical praise upon its release ,  विशेषकर  for Portman 's performance and Aronofsky 's direction , and  थी  a significant box office success , grossing $ 329 million worldwide .
the   फिल्मी   प्राप्त  five Academy Award nominations and Portman  जीती  the Best Actress  पुरस्कार  for the film  ,  as  खूब  as many  अन्य  Best  अभिनेत्री  awards in several guilds  और  festivals , while  aronofsky  was  मनोनीत  for  बेहतरीन  Director  .
In addition , the film itself received a nomination for Best Picture .
The world’s first ice-calorimeter , used  in  the winter of 1782-83 , by Antoine Lavoisier and Pierre-Simon Laplace , to determine  the  heat involved in various  रासायनिक  changes ; calculations which were based on Joseph Black ’s prior discovery of latent  ऊष्मा   .
These experiments mark the  न्यास  of thermochemistry .
A calorimeter ( from Latin  calor  ,  अर्थ  heat )  is  an object used for calorimetry , or the process of measuring  the  heat  of   रासायनिक  reactions or physical changes  as  well as heat capacity .
Differential  स्कैनिंग   calorimeters   ,  isothermal microcalorimeters , titration calorimeters and  त्वरित   रेट   calorimeters  are  among   the  most common types .
a  simple calorimeter  बस  consists  of  a thermometer attached to  a  metal  संग्राहक  full of water suspended above a combustion chamber  .
To find the enthalpy change per mole of  a  substance A in  a  reaction between two substances A  और  B , the substances are added to a calorimeter and the initial  और  final temperatures ( before the reaction  प्रारंभ  and after  it  has finished ) are noted .
Multiplying the temperature change by  the  mass and specific heat  capacities  of the  substances  gives  a   मान  for  the   उर्जा  given off or absorbed during the reaction .
dividing   the  energy change by how many moles  of  A were present  देता  its  enthalpy  change  of   प्रतिक्रिया  .
This method  is  used primarily in academic  शिक्षण  as it describes the theory of calorimetry .
It does not account for the heat loss through the  संग्राहक  or the heat capacity  of  the thermometer  और  container itself  .
in  addition , the  ऑब्जेक्ट  placed  अंदर  the calorimeter shows that the objects transferred their heat to the calorimeter and  into  the liquid  ,   और  the heat absorbed  by  the calorimeter  और  the liquid is equal to the heat given off by the metals  .
A pair of green flip-flops
Flip-flops  (  also called zōri , thongs , jandals , or a variety of other  names  throughout the world )  हैं  a type of open-toed sandal typically worn in casual situations ,  ऐसे  as outside  or  at the beach .
They  consist  of a flat sole held loosely on  the  foot by  a  Y-shaped strap  कि  passes between the first and second toes and around either side  of  the  पैर  .
वे  may also be  आयोजित  to the foot with a  सिंगल   डोरी  over  the  front of the foot  बल्कि  than a  थोंग  .
The name `` flip-flop '' originated because of the  ध्वनि  that is made by slapping between the sole  of  the  पैर  and the floor when  चलना   .
This style of footwear has been worn by  the  people of  अनेक  cultures throughout  the   संसार  , originating  as  early as the ancient Egyptians in 4,000  b.c  .
the  modern flip-flop descends from  the  Japanese zōri , which became popular after World  युद्ध   ii  when  सैनिको  returning to the United  राज्य  brought them back .
They became  लोकप्रिय  in casual settings during  the  1960s , 1990s , and 2000s , and some varieties have  भी  found their  रास्ता  into more formal attire , despite  आलोचना  .
The  उपयोग  of flip-flops  can  result in many pains and injuries , including ankle sprains and broken bones .
कुछ   individuals  who walk for long periods report  पीड़ा   in  the feet ,  ankles   ,  and lower legs .
The  कमी  of support provided  by   flip-flops  often results in over-pronation injuries  ,  caused by  the   पैर  slipping inwards  further  than normal  .
This can lead to flat feet and  tendonitis  .
Other injuries that may result are due to  the   जूते  's open-toed nature , such as stubbed toes , cuts , and bruises  .
डॉक्टर  recommend purchasing pricier sandals with thick-cushioned soles , as well  as  those that  have   a  strap that is not canvas and that  आता   वापस  almost to the ankle  .
The owners of Hanjin Osaka , seen here transiting the Panama  कनाल  in 2008 , declared  सामान्य  average following an explosion in the ship 's engine room  on  .
The law of  सामान्य  average  is  a legal principle of maritime law according to which all parties in a  समुद्र  venture proportionally share any losses resulting from a  voluntary  sacrifice of part of the ship  or  cargo to save the whole in an emergency .
in  the exigencies of hazards faced at sea , crew members  प्रायः  have  अनमोल  little  समय   in  which to  determine  precisely whose cargo they are  jettisoning   .
Thus , to avoid quarrelling  कि  could waste valuable time ,  वहीँ  arose the equitable practice whereby all the merchants whose cargo landed safely would  be   पुकारा  on to  योगदान  a portion ,  आधारित  upon a share or  प्रतिशत  ,  to   the  merchant or merchants whose goods  था   महरूम   tossed  overboard  to   avert  imminent peril .
While general average traces its origins in ancient maritime law , still  it  remains part of the admiralty law of most countries .
the  first codification  of   सामान्य   औसत  was the York Antwerp Rules of  1890   .
American  कंपनियाँ  accepted it in  1949  .
सामान्य  average requires three  तत्व   जिससे  are clearly stated by  mr.   इंसाफ  Grier in Barnard v. Adams:
``  1st  .
A common  खतरे   :  a  खतरे  in which vessel ,  कार्गो  and crew all participate ; a  खतरे  imminent  और  apparently  'inevitable  , ' except by voluntarily incurring the loss of  a  portion  of  the whole to save the  शेष  . ''
``  2nd   .  There must  be  a  voluntary  jettison  ,   jactus  , or casting away ,  of  some portion of the joint concern  लिये  the purpose of avoiding this imminent peril  ,  periculi imminentis evitandi causa , or , in other words ,  a  transfer  of   the  peril from the whole to a particular  portion   of  the whole . ''
`` 3rd .
इस  attempt to avoid the imminent common peril must  be  successful  ''  .
Example Polish call for  टीकाकरण  against Diphtheria and  टेटनस  .
A vaccination schedule is a series of vaccinations , including the timing  of  all doses  ,  which may be either  अनुशंसित   or  compulsory ,  depending   on  the  देश   of  residence  .
A vaccine is  an   antigenic  preparation used to produce active immunity to a disease , in order to prevent  or   reduce  the effects of infection by any natural  or   ``   जंगली  '' pathogen .
अनेक  vaccines require  अनेक  doses  लिये   अधिकतम  effectiveness , either to produce sufficient initial immune response or to boost response that fades over time .
For example , tetanus vaccine  boosters  are often recommended every 10 years .
Vaccine schedules are  विकसित   by  governmental agencies or physicians  समूह  to achieve  अधिकतम  effectiveness using required and recommended vaccines for  a   मोहल्ले   जबकि   महती   the  number of  स्वास्थ्य  care system interactions .
Over the  पास्ट   दो  decades , the recommended vaccination schedule has  grown   rapidly  and become more complicated as many new  टीके  have been developed  .
Some vaccines  हैं  recommended only in  निश्चित  areas ( countries , subnational areas  ,  or at-risk populations ) where a  बीमारी  is  आम  .
लिये  instance , yellow  ज्वर  vaccination  is  on the routine vaccine schedule of French Guiana , is recommended in certain regions of Brazil but in the  संयुक्त  States is  तभी  given to travelers heading to countries with a history  of  the  बीमारी  .
In developing countries , vaccine recommendations also  लो  into account the level of health care access , the cost of vaccines and  मुद्दे   साथ  vaccine availability and storage .
Sample vaccinations schedules discussed  by   the  World  स्वास्थ्य   संगठन  show a developed country  using   a   अनुसूची  which  extends  over the  पहला  five years of a  चाइल्ड  's  जीवन   और   उपयोग  vaccines which cost over $  700  including  प्रशासन  costs  जबकि  a developing country uses a schedule  providing  vaccines in the  पहला  9  महीने  of  जीवन  and costing only $ 25 .
This difference  is  due to the  निम्नतर  cost of health care , the lower  लागत  of many  टीके  provided to developing nations ,  और  that more expensive vaccines , often for  कम  common diseases , are not  utilized  .
In 1900  ,   the  smallpox vaccine was  the  only one administered to children .
by  the early 1950s , children routinely received  चार  vaccines ,  लिये  protection against ( diphtheria , pertussis  ,  tetanus , polio , and smallpox ) ,  और  as many as five shots by two years  of  age .
Since the mid-1980s , many vaccines have been added to the schedule .
, the US Centers  लिये  Disease Control and  रोकथाम  (  सीडीसी  ) now recommends vaccination against at least fourteen diseases .
by  two years of age , U.S. children receive as  अनेक  as 24  टीका  injections , and might  प्राप्त  up to five shots during one  विज़िट  to the doctor .
The  उपयोग  of combination vaccine products means  कि   ,   ,  the  संयुक्त  Kingdom 's immunization  कार्यक्रम  consists of  10  injections  by  the age of two  ,  rather than 25 if vaccination for each disease was  दिए  as a separate injection .
Two revellers dance in the  गलियों  .
The form  of  dancing is called  ``  wining '' ( winding ) pronounced wine-ing
A Music Truck entertains the crowd on  the  streets .
Trucks are an integral part  of  the street parade  ,  featuring live performances or deejays
the  Trinidad and Tobago Carnival is an  सालाना  event held on the Monday  और  Tuesday before Ash Wednesday  ,  and is well known for participant  's  colorful costumes and exuberant celebrations .
Carnival in Trinidad and Tobago is the most significant event  on   the  islands ' cultural and  पर्यटन  calendar , with numerous cultural events running in  the   सीसे  up to  the  street parade on Carnival Monday and Tuesday .
It  is  said that if the islanders  हैं  not celebrating it , then they  हैं  preparing for  it  , while reminiscing about the past year 's festival  .
The heart of the musical celebration has been calypso  ;   recently  soca  रै  replaced calypso  as  the  सबसे  celebrated type  of  music  .
Costumes , stickfighting and limbo competitions are also important components of the festival .
Carnival as  it  is celebrated in Trinidad and Tobago is also celebrated  in  cities  विश्वव्यापी  .
ये  including  टोरंटो  's Caribana , Miami 's Miami  कार्निवल   ,   ह्यूस्टन  Carifest  ,  London 's Notting  हिल  Carnival as well  as   नई   यॉर्क   नगर   's  Labor  दिन  Carnival  to  name a few .
Carnival was created when West African slaves mimicked their French owners who where known for their  lavish  costumes  गेंदें   .
हराम  to  partake  in  ये  festivities and  confined  to their quarters ,  स्लेव  combined elements from their own cultures to their master  's  fete .
Hence the creation of  वर्ण  such as  jab  Jab or Jab Molassie ( Devils ) , Midnight Robbers ,  imps  , Lagahroo , Soucouyant  ,  La Diablesse and Demons .
With the abolition of  गुलामी  in 1838 , freed Africans took  उनके   संस्करण  of Carnival to the streets  through  expression of drums  ,   riddim   भाग  like tamboo bamboo and as each new immigrant population  डाला  Trinidad  ,  Carnival  विकसित  into what we  जान  today .
The  नगर  of Chicago  ,  Illinois held a nonpartisan mayoral election on Tuesday ,  फ़रवरी  22  ,   2011  .
Incumbent Mayor Richard M. Daley , a member  of  the  लोकतांत्रिक  Party who had been  in  office since 1989 , did not seek a seventh term as mayor .
Candidates needed to collect  12,500  petition signatures by November  22  ,  2010  to qualify  लिये  a place on  the  ballot .
April 5 , 2011 was  अनुसूचित   to  be  a  runoff election date if no candidate  प्राप्त  an absolute majority .
Rahm Emanuel won the  रेस  for mayor  साथ  more than  55  % of the vote  .
He was inaugurated on May  16  ,  2011  .
``  Pumped  up  Kicks  ''  is  a  song  by   अमरीकी  indie  पॉप  band Foster the People  .
it  was released as  the  group 's debut single in September 2010 , and  the   following  year was included  on  their EP Foster the  लोगों  and  उनके  debut album Torches .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' became the group 's breakthrough hit and was one of the most popular songs of  2011  .
The song was written and recorded by frontman  चिह्नित  Foster  जबकि  he was working as  a  commercial jingle writer  .
Contrasting with the  upbeat  musical composition , the  गीत  describe the homicidal  विचार  of  a  troubled youth .
The track received considerable attention after it was posted online in 2010 as a free download , and it helped the group garner a multi-album  रिकार्ड  deal with Columbia Records imprint Startime  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  .
``  उत्तेजित  Up  kicks  '' proved to be a sleeper hit  ;  in  2011  , after receiving significant  airplay  on  आधुनिक  rock  स्टेशन   ,   the  song crossed-over onto  समकालीन  hit radio stations .
The song spent  आठ  consecutive weeks at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 chart in  the  United States , making it  the   पहला  Billboard Alternative Songs number-one  सिंगल  to crack the U.S. top 5  चूंकि  Kings of Leon 's ``  उपयोग  Somebody `` in 2009 .
The song was widely praised by critics , and it has been licensed  लिये  use in a wide range of popular media since its release .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' received a Grammy Award nomination  लिये  Best Pop  duo/group   प्रदर्शन  .
The State Fair of West Virginia is an annual  राज्य  fair for West Virginia .
It is held  annually  in mid-August  on   the  State Fairgrounds  in   fairlea  , near Lewisburg , West Virginia in the southeastern part of the state .
The State Fairgrounds consists of a  विशाल  open field for carnivals and exhibitions , a horse track , grandstands ,  और  several exhibition buildings .
Free  पार्किंग  is provided adjacent  to  the fairgrounds and ,  जबतक  2006 , free camping was  भी  available in a large field with  running-water  toilets and showers , but no hookups .
Campers  हैं  now charged a small  शुल्क  .
The White House  ,   the  president 's official  निवास  and  बीच  of the administration
अंतर्गत   the  United States Constitution , the President of  the  United States is the head of state and head of government of the United States  .
As chief of  the  executive branch  और  head  of   the  federal government as a  पूरे   ,  the presidency is the highest political office  in  the  संयुक्त  States by influence and recognition  .
The  अध्यक्ष  is  भी  the commander-in-chief  of  the United States Armed  शक्तियां  .
the  president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of  प्रतिनिधि   चाहिए  the Electoral College  असफल  to award an absolute majority of votes to  कोई  person ) .
Since the ratification of the  twenty-second   amendment   to  the United States Constitution in  1951  , no person may be elected President more than twice  ,  and no  एक   जो  has served more than two years of a  पद  to which someone else  थी  elected may  be   निर्वाचित  more than once .
Upon the death , resignation  ,  or removal  इससे  office of an  लाज़िम  President , the Vice President assumes  the   दफ्तर   .
The President must  be   at  least  35  years of age and a `` natural  born   ''  citizen of the United States  .
इस  list includes only  those  persons who were  sworn   into   दफ्तर  as president  following  the ratification of the United  राज्य   संविधान  ,  जिससे  took effect on March 4 , 1789  .
For  अमरीकी   नेताओ  before this ratification , see  अध्यक्ष  of  the  Continental Congress .
the  list does not include any Acting  राष्ट्रपतियों  under the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United  राज्य  Constitution .
There have  महरूम  43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as Grover Cleveland served  दो  non-consecutive terms  और  is  गिने  chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as  अध्यक्ष   ,  four died  in  office of natural causes  (  William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor ,  वारेन  G.  हार्डिंग  , and Franklin D. Roosevelt ) , four  यहूद  assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln , James A. Garfield , William McKinley , and John F. Kennedy  )  and one resigned ( Richard  निक्सन  ) .
जार्ज  Washington  ,  the first president , was inaugurated in 1789  बाद   a  unanimous  vote  of  the  Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison  खर्च  the shortest time  in  office with  32  days  in  1841 ,  और   फ्रैंकलिन  D. Roosevelt spent  the  longest with over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in  1945  .
He  is  the  तभी   अध्यक्ष  to serve more than two terms , and  a  constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after Harry Truman ,  थी  passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh  अध्यक्ष   ,   थी  the first to be elected by  मेन  of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring  non-land-owners  from voting were  repealed  .
Warren Harding was the first elected after women gained voting rights  in  1920 .
History records four presidents – John Q Adams , Rutherford  B.  Hayes ,  बेंजामिन  Harrison and George  W.  Bush – who lost the  लोकप्रिय   vote   लकिन  assumed office .
John F. Kennedy has been the only  अध्यक्ष  of  रोमन   कैथोलिक   आस्था  , and the current president  ,  Barack Obama , is the first president of African descent  .
`` Lombardi Trophy '' redirects here .
For the award  awarded  annually to the best college football lineman or linebacker , see Lombardi Award  .
The  विंस  Lombardi Trophy is the trophy  awarded  each year to the winning team of the National  फ़ुटबॉल   लीग   's   चैंपियनशिप  game  ,  the  सुपर   कटोरी  .
the  trophy is named in honor of legendary NFL coach Vince  लोम्बार्डी  .
This is a list of tables of the verified oldest people in  the  world  in   ordinal  rank  ,  such as oldest person or  oldest  man .
In these tables  ,   a  supercentenarian is  माना   'verified   '  if  उसके  or her  अर्जी  has been  validated  by  an  international body  कि  specifically deals in longevity research  ,   ऐसे  as the Gerontology Research  समूह   (   grg  ) or Guinness  संसार   रिकॉर्ड  .
The longest unambiguously  प्रलेखित  human  जीवनकाल  is that of Jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ) , who died at age 122  सालो  , 164 days .
She met Vincent van Gogh when she was 12 or  13   .
This led to  न्यूज  media  ध्यान  in 1985 , after Calment turned 110 .
Subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's age ,  परे  any reasonable question , in the records of her native city ,  arles  , France .
More evidence of Calment 's  जीवनकाल   रै  been produced  than  for any other supercentenarian ; her  मामला  serves as an archetype in  the  methodology  लिये  verifying  the   आयु   of  the  संसार  's oldest  लोगों  .
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon Kimura , who currently lives in Japan and is  आयु  as of .
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States , on  17  December 2012 , Kimura ,  born  19 April 1897 , is  the  oldest  जीना   व्यक्ति  in the world whose age can be documented  .
he  has also  महरूम  the oldest living man since the death  of  114-year old Walter Breuning on  14  April 2011  .
Since the death  of  115-year old Koto  okubo   of   जापानी  on 12  जनवरी  2013 ,  the  oldest living woman has  महरूम  -year-old Misao Okawa , also from  जापानी  , born  on  5 March 1898 .
The People 's Court  is  an American arbitration-based reality  अदालत  show , currently presided  over  by retired Florida State Circuit Court  न्यायधीश  Marilyn Milian , in which  छोटी  claims  विवादों   हैं   संभाला  .
The  लोगों  's Court is the first  अदालत  show to use binding arbitration , introducing  the  format into the genre in  1981  .
The system has been duplicated by most of the show 's successors  in  the judicial genre .
Moreover , The People  's  Court is the first popular , long-running reality in  the  judicial genre .
It was preceded only  by  a few short-lived realities in the genre ; these short-lived predecessors  यहूद  only loosely related  to  judicial proceedings , except for one : Parole ( 1959 ) took footage from real-life courtrooms  पकड़कर   विधिक  proceedings .
Prior to The  लोगों  's  अदालत  , the  विशाल  majority of  tv  courtroom  shows  used actors  ,  and recreated or fictional cases (  as  did radio before that )  .
among  examples of these types of court shows include Famous Jury Trials and Your Witness .
The People 's Court has had two contrasting lives .
the   दिखाएँ  's first life was presided  over   solely  by former Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Joseph Wapner .
उसके  tenure lasted  इससे  the show  's  debut on September  14  , 1981  ,  until  may  21 , 1993 , when the show was cancelled due to  कम  ratings .
इस   बाएँ   the  show with a total of  2,484  1⁄2-hour  एपीसोड  and 12 seasons  .
The  दिखाएँ  was taped in Los Angeles during its first life .
After  होने  cancelled  ,  reruns aired until September  9  , 1994 .
on  September  8  , 1997 , after being out of production for four years  ,  The People  's  Court was revived for  a  second life in first-run syndication as a 60-minute program .
Former lawyer  और   महापौर  of New York Ed Koch was chosen as arbiter ,  जिससे  he  कायम  for 2 seasons from the  1997–98  season through the 1998–99 season ( the present  जीवन  's 2nd season and overall show 's 14th )  .
By the 1999–00 season ,  husband  of Judith  sheindlin  ( who presides over Judge Judy ) and former New York  राज्य  Supreme Court Judge Jerry Sheindlin  succeeded   koch  .
sheindlin  lasted  एक  and a half seasons  as   he  was  replaced  towards the end of  the  2000–01 season ( present life 's  4th   ऋतु  and overall show 's 17th ) .
Beginning in spring 2001 , Florida judge Marilyn Milian took over The  लोगों  's  अदालत  and has presided over the show ever since .
Once  milian  completes the 2012–13 season , she will have served as longest  arbiter  over the series with 12  और  a half seasons  .
As of the present , however  ,  her years on the program tie Wapner at 12 seasons  .
In the 2009-10  टेलीविज़न   ऋतु  , The People 's Courts  2nd/present  life outlasted its first when  it  reached 13 seasons .
While  the  show taped  in  New York City for the first 15 seasons of its  दूसरी  life ,  it  now tapes in Stamford , Connecticut as  of  the  2012-13   ऋतु  .
on  September  3  , 2012 , The People 's Court 's 2nd/present life entered  इसके  16th season ( 28th overall  ऋतु   )  .
With 28 total seasons ,  the  People 's Court ranks as the  2nd  longest-running courtroom program behind the  जारी   तलाक  Court at  33  seasons  (  from its 3 combined lives ) .
Utah ( or ) ( Arapaho  :  Wo'tééneihí  '  ) is a state in the Western United States .
It became the 45th state  admitted  to the Union on  जनवरी  4 , 1896 .
यूटा  is the 13th-largest , the 34th-most populous ,  और  the 10th-least-densely populated of the 50  संयुक्त  States .
Approximately 80 % of Utah 's 2,817,222 people live along  the  Wasatch Front , centering on Salt Lake City , leaving vast expanses  of  the state  nearly   uninhabited   और  making the population the sixth most urbanized in  the   u.S.  Utah  is  bordered by Colorado on the  ईस्ट  , Wyoming on the northeast , Idaho on the north  ,  Arizona on the south , and Nevada on  the   वेस्ट   .
It  भी  touches a corner of New Mexico on the southeast .
यूटा  is  the  most religiously homogeneous state in the Union .
लगभग  63 % of Utahns are reported to be members of  the  Church  of   यीशु  Christ  of  Latter-day  संतो  or LDS ( Mormons ) , which  greatly  influences Utah culture  और  daily life  .
The world  मुख्यालय  of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( LDS Church  )  is located in Utah 's  राज्य  capital .
The state is a center of  परिवहन  , education , information technology and  शोध  , government services ,  खनन  , and a  प्रमुख  tourist  गंतव्य  for outdoor recreation .
According to the U.S.  जनसांख्यिकी   ब्यूरो  's population estimates , Utah is the fifth fastest-growing state in the United States as  of  2012 .
St. George , was the  fastest–growing  metropolitan area in the United States from 2000  to  2005 .
A 2012 Gallup  नेशनल  survey  मिला   यूटा   overall  to be the `` best state to  सजीव  in  ''  based on 13 forward-looking measurements including various  आर्थिक   ,  lifestyle  ,  and health-related outlook metrics .
Coldwater is a small town in Tate County  ,  Mississippi .
It is in the Memphis Metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल   .
The population was 1,674 at the 2000 census  .
the  hard palate  is  a thin horizontal  बोनी  plate of the skull , located in the roof of the mouth .
It spans the arch formed by the upper teeth .
it  is formed  by  the palatine process of the maxilla  और   आड़ा  plate of palatine bone .
It forms a  विभाजन  between the  nasal   passages   और   the  mouth .
Also on the anterior portion of  the  roof of the hard  तालु  is the  rugae  which are  the   irregular  ridges in the mucous membrane that help facilitate the  गति  of  खाना  backwards towards the pharynx .
This  विभाजन   is  continued  deeper  into the mouth by a fleshy extension  पुकारा  the soft  तालु  .
Complete set of  scrolls  , constituting the  संपूर्ण  Tanakh .
The Tanakh  (  , or  ;  also Tenakh , Tenak ,  tanach  ) is a name used in Judaism for  the  canon of the Hebrew Bible .
The Tanakh  is  also known as the Masoretic Text or the Miqra .
The  नाम  is  an  acronym formed  इससे   the  initial  यहूदी  letters of the Masoretic Text 's three  परंपरागत  subdivisions : The Torah  (  `` Teaching  ''  , also known as the Five Books of Moses ) , Nevi'im  (   ``   नबियों  ''  )  and Ketuvim ( ``  कृतियाँ  '' ) —hence TaNaKh  .
The name `` Miqra ''  (  מקרא ) ,  अर्थ   ``   कि  which is read '' , is an alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh .
The books  of  the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral tradition  passed  on  by  each generation , called the Oral Torah .
Sobriety checkpoint in Germany
ड्राइविंग  under  the  influence (  dui  ) , driving while intoxicated ( DWI  )  ,  शराबी  driving ,  नशे   ड्राइविंग  , drink driving  ,   ऑपरेटिंग  under the influence , drinking and driving  ,   or  impaired driving  is  the  अपराधों  of driving  a   मोटर  vehicle with blood levels of alcohol in excess of  a  legal limit ( `` Blood Alcohol Content ''  ,  or `` BAC '' ) .
Similar  regulations   कवर  driving  or  operating certain types  of  machinery while affected by drinking alcohol or taking other drugs , including , but not limited to  नुस्खा  drugs .
This is a criminal offense in most nations .
Convictions do not necessarily involve actual driving  of  the vehicle .
In most jurisdictions a measurement  ऐसे   as  a blood alcohol content (  bac   )   in  excess of a specific threshold level , such as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the offense , with no need to prove impairment or being  अंतर्गत   the   influence  of alcohol .
in  some jurisdictions , there is an aggravated category of the  ठोकर  at  a  higher level e.g . 0.12 % .
in   सबसे  countries , anyone who is convicted  of  injuring  or  killing someone while under  the  influence of alcohol or drugs can be heavily fined , as in France ,  in   जोड  to  होने  given  a   lengthy  prison sentence .
Some  कार्य   have  their own rules and BAC limits , for example  वाणिज्यिक  pilot , and  the   संघीय  Railroad Administration  in  the United States has a 0.04 % limit  लिये  train crew  .
Some jurisdictions have  अनेक   स्तर  of BAC ;  लिये  example ,  the   राज्य  of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  has a 0.08  %   bac  limit  ,   जिससे  is lowered to  0.04  % if the operator holds  a  commercial driver 's license .
The California BAC limit is 0.01 % for those younger than 21 years of  आयु  and those on probation for a previous DUI conviction .
Some large corporations have their own rules ; Union Pacific Railroad has their  अपना  BAC limit of  0.02  % that , if violated during a random test or a for-cause test  —  for example , after a traffic  दुर्घटना  — can result in termination  of  employment  साथ  no chance of future re-hire .
अनेक  states in the U.S. and provinces in Canada have  अपनाया  truth in sentencing laws that enforce  सख्त   दिशानिर्देश   on  sentencing  ,  differing from previous practice where prison time was reduced or suspended after sentencing had been issued .
Some jurisdictions have judicial guidelines requiring a  अनिवार्य   न्यूनतम  sentence .
Penalties for DUI charges  दायरा  from expensive fees to  forfetiruree  of your license plates and in  कुछ   गंभीर   हालातों  , your vehicle .
a  drunk  ड्राइविंग  simulator in  montréal  , Canada
The  विशिष्ट  criminal offense  may   be  called  ,  depending on the jurisdiction , driving under  the   influence   [  of alcohol or  अन्य  drugs ]  (  DUI ) ,  ड्राइविंग  under  तीव्र  influence ( DUII ) , driving while intoxicated  (  DWI )  ,  operating under the  influence  ( OUI )  ऑपरेटिंग   जबकि  intoxicated (  owi  )  ,  operating a motor  गाडी  while intoxicated ( OMVI  )  , driving under the combined influence  of  alcohol and/or other drugs , driving  अंतर्गत   the  influence per se  or  drunk in  चार्ज   [  of  a   गाडी  ] .
Many  ऐसे  laws apply also to motorcycling , boating , piloting aircraft , use  of  motile farm equipment such  as  tractors and combines , riding horses or driving  a   horse-drawn   गाडी  ,  or   bicycling   ,  possibly with different BAC level than driving  .
In some  jurisdictions  there are  पृथक  charges  depending  on the vehicle used , such as  bwi   (  bicycling while intoxicated ) , which may carry  a  lighter sentence .
In the United States , local  विधि  enforcement  एजेंसियों  made 1,467,300 arrests nationwide for driving under the influence of alcohol in 1996 , compared to 1.9 million such arrests during the peak year in 1983 .
In 1997 an estimated 513,200 DWI offenders were in prison or  कारावास  , down from  593,000  in 1990 and up from 270,100 in  1986  .
Officers from US Customs and Border Protection boarding a ship
Law enforcement in the United States is one of three major components  of  the criminal justice system of  the  United States , along with courts and corrections .
Although there exists  an  inherent  interrelatedness  between the different groups that  मेक  up  the  criminal justice system based on  उनके   अपराधों   deterrence  purpose  ,   प्रत्येक   घटक  operates  independently  from one another .
However , the judiciary  is   vested  with the power to make legal determinations regarding the conduct of the other two components .
Apart from maintaining order and service functions , the purpose of policing  is  the investigation of suspected criminal activity and the  referral  of the results of investigations and of suspected criminals to the courts .
Law  प्रवर्तन  ,  to  varying degrees at  अलग  levels of  सरकारी  and  in  different agencies , is also commonly charged with the responsibilities of deterring criminal activity and of preventing the successful commission  of  crimes in progress ;  the  service and enforcement of warrants , writs  और   अन्य  orders of the  न्यायालयों  .
विधि   प्रवर्तन  agencies are also involved  in  providing  पहला  response to  emergencies  and other threats to public safety ; the protection of certain public facilities and  अवसंरचना   ;  the maintenance of public order ; the protection of public officials ; and the operation of  कुछ  correctional facilities ( usually at  the  local level ) .
Elmer Figueroa  arce   (  born June 28 , 1968 ) , best known under the stage name Chayanne , is a Puerto Rican Latin pop singer and actor .
As a solo artist , Chayanne has released  21  solo  एल्बम  and sold over 15 million albums worldwide .
``  संसार  War  हल्क   ''  is a comic book crossover storyline  कि  ran through a self titled limited series and various other titles published by  आश्चर्य  Comics in 2007  ,  featuring the Hulk .
the   श्रेणी   consists  of  पाँच  main issues titled World  युद्ध   हल्क  ,  साथ   ग्रेग  Pak as writer and  जॉन  Romita , Jr.  as  penciller  ,  and three other limited series : World  युद्ध   हल्क  : Front  लकीर  , World War Hulk : Gamma Corps  ,   और  World War Hulk : X-Men  .
it   भी   भागा   through  several other Marvel comics  श्रेणी  .
The plot is the culmination of a series  of   कार्यक्रम  that began with  the  Hulk  होने  tricked into  स्पेस  by the Illuminati  और  a  जीवन  model decoy of Nick Fury , the  हल्क  's subsequent exile seen in Planet Hulk  और   उसके   निकट   वापसी  to Earth  to  seek revenge on  the  Illuminati .
Marion Mitchell Morrison ( born Marion  रॉबर्ट  Morrison ;  may  26 , 1907 – June 11  ,  1979 ) ,  बेहतर  known by his  स्टेज   नाम  John Wayne , was an American film actor , director  और  producer .
An Academy  पुरस्कार  -winner  ,   वेन  was among the top box office  draws  for  तीन  decades ,  और  was  नामित  the  all-time  top money-making star .
an  enduring American icon  ,  he epitomized  खुरदरा   मर्दानगी  and is famous for his demeanor , including his distinctive calm voice , walk  ,   और   ऊँचाई  .
वेन  was born  in  Winterset  ,  Iowa but his family relocated to the greater Los Angeles area when he  थी  four years old .
He found work at local film  studios   जब  he lost his football scholarship to USC  as  a result  of  a bodysurfing  दुर्घटना  .
initially  working for the  फॉक्स  Film Corporation  ,   he   ज़्यादातर  appeared in  छोटी  bit parts .
His first leading role came in the widescreen epic The Big  ट्रेल  (  1930  ) , which led to leading roles in numerous films  throughout  the 1930s , many of them in the western genre .
His  करियर  rose to further heights in 1939  ,   साथ   जॉन  Ford 's Stagecoach making him an instant superstar  .
वेन  would go on to star in  142   तस्वीरें  , primarily typecast in Western films .
among  his best known later  films  are The Quiet Man ( 1952 ) , which follows him as an Irish-American boxer  और  his love affair with a fiery  spinster  played by Maureen O'Hara ; The Searchers  (  1956 )  ,  in which he  plays  a Civil War  दिग्गज  who seeks out  उसके  abducted niece  ;  Rio Bravo (  1959  ) , playing a  शेरिफ  with Dean Martin ; True Grit ( 1969 )  ,  playing a  humorous   u.s  . Marshal who sets out to avenge a  man  's death in the role that  जीती  Wayne an Academy Award  ;   और  The  shootist   (  1976 ) , his final screen performance in  जिससे   he   plays  an aging gunslinger  battling   कर्कट  .
Wayne moved to Orange County , California in  the  1960s , and  थी  a  prominent  Republican in Hollywood , supporting anti-communist positions .
He  died  of stomach cancer in 1979 .
In  जून  1999 , the American Film Institute named Wayne  13th  among  the  Greatest Male Screen Legends of All Time .
Galileo Galilei ( ; 15 February 1564 – 8 January 1642 ) , was an Italian physicist , mathematician , astronomer , and philosopher  जो   निभाई   a  major role in  the   वैज्ञानिक  Revolution .
His achievements include improvements to the telescope  और  consequent astronomical observations  और  support for Copernicanism .
Galileo has been called the `` father of modern observational astronomy ``  ,  the `` father  of  modern physics ``  ,  the ``  पिता   of  science '' ,  और  `` the Father  of  Modern Science  ''  .
His  योगदान  to  observational  astronomy include  the  telescopic  पुष्टि  of  the  phases  of   शुक्र  , the discovery of the four largest satellites of Jupiter ( named the Galilean moons in his  इज्ज़त  ) ,  और  the observation and  विश्लेषण  of sunspots .
गैलीलियो  also worked  in  applied science and technology , inventing  an  improved military compass and other instruments .
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism was controversial  भीतर   उसके   आजीवन  ,  जब  most subscribed to either geocentrism or the Tychonic system .
He met with opposition from astronomers , who doubted heliocentrism due to the absence of an observed  तारकीय  parallax .
The matter was  investigated  by the Roman Inquisition in  1615  , and they concluded that  it   could  be  समर्थित  as only a possibility , not  an  established fact  .
Galileo later  defended  his views  in  Dialogue  concerning  the Two Chief World Systems , which appeared to attack  पोप  Urban VIII and thus alienated him and  the   jesuits  , who had both  समर्थित   गैलीलियो  up  जबतक  this point  .
He  थी  tried by  the  Inquisition ,  मिला  ``  ओजस्वी  suspect of heresy '' , forced to  recant  , and spent the rest of  उसके  life under house arrest .
It was  जबकि  Galileo  थी  under house arrest that he wrote one  of  his finest works , Two New Sciences , in which he  summarised  the  कार्य   he  had  किया  some forty years earlier , on the two sciences now called kinematics and strength of  सामग्री  .
55  '' LG  oled  TV  showcased   at  CES 2012
प्रोटोटाइप  OLED lighting  फलक  developed by Lumiotec
Demonstration  of   a  flexible OLED  यंत्र
an  OLED ( organic light-emitting diode )  is  a light-emitting diode ( LED ) in which the emissive electroluminescent layer is a film  of  organic compound which emits light in response to an electric  वर्तमान  .
This layer of  सशुल्क  semiconductor is situated between two electrodes  .
Generally , at least one of these electrodes is transparent .
OLEDs are used to  बनाएँ   डिजिटल  displays in devices such  as  television screens , computer monitors  ,  portable systems such  as  mobile phones , handheld games  consoles  and PDAs .
A  प्रमुख   क्षेत्रफल  of research is the development  of   श्वेत  OLED devices  लिये  use in solid-state lighting applications .
There are two main families of OLEDs : those based on small molecules  और  those  employing  polymers .
Adding mobile ions  to  an OLED creates  a  light-emitting electrochemical cell  or   लैक  , which has a slightly different mode  of  operation .
OLED displays can use  either  passive-matrix ( PMOLED ) or active-matrix addressing schemes .
Active-matrix OLEDs  (  AMOLED  )   आवश्यकता  a thin-film transistor backplane to  स्विच  each  व्यक्तिगत  pixel on or off ,  लकिन   allow  for higher resolution and larger  प्रदर्शक   आकार  .
An OLED display  works  without a backlight  .
यूँ   ,  it can display  गहन   ब्लैक  levels and can be thinner  और  lighter than a liquid crystal  प्रदर्शक  ( LCD ) .
In low  परिवेश   लाइट  conditions  ऐसे  as a dark room an OLED screen can achieve  a   उच्चतर  contrast ratio than  an  LCD , whether  the  LCD uses cold cathode fluorescent lamps or LED backlight  .
A carton  और  a  कांच  of eggnog from Montreal  ,   कनाडा  , showing its French facade  (  English reverse ) and the French term lait de poule  (  literally , `` hen 's  मिल्क   ''  )
eggnog  , or  अंडा  nog , is a sweetened dairy -based beverage traditionally made with milk and/or  मलाई  , sugar ,  और  whipped eggs ( which gives  it  a frothy texture ) .
Brandy , rum ,  व्हिस्की  ,  bourbon   ,  vodka  ,  or a combination of liquors are  प्रायः  added .
the  finished serving is often garnished with  a  sprinkling of ground cinnamon or  जायफल  .
It was also known as the egg milk punch .
Eggnog is  a  popular  पेय  throughout  the  United States and Canada , and  is  usually  संबद्ध  with Christmas .
Eggnog  may  be added  as  a flavoring to food or drinks such as coffee and tea .
Eggnog as a custard can also be used as  an  ice cream base .
a  pasty ( , ) , ( sometimes known in Britain as a Cornish  pasty  , and in the United States as a  pastie  or British  pasty  ) is a baked  पेस्ट्री  , a traditional  किस्में  of which is  विशेषकर  associated  साथ   कॉर्नवॉल  , the westernmost county  in  England .
It is made  by  placing uncooked filling  typically  of meat and vegetables , without meat in vegetarian versions , on a  चपटा  pastry circle  और  folding  it  to  रैप  the filling  ,  crimping  the   किनारे  to form a seal .
बाद  baking , the  परिणाम  is a raised semicircular  comestible  .
The traditional Cornish pasty , which has  सुरक्षित  Geographical  indication  ( PGI ) status in Europe , is filled with  बीफ  , sliced or diced potato , swede (  भी  known  as  a  पीला  turnip or rutabaga  –  referred to in  कॉर्नवॉल  as turnip ) and onion ,  seasoned   साथ  salt and pepper ,  और   is  baked .
Today , the  pasty   is  the  खाना  most associated with  कॉर्नवॉल  , it is regarded as the national dish  ,  and it accounts for  6  % of the  cornish  food economy  .
Pasties with many different fillings are  बना   ;   कुछ   दुकानें  specialise in  selling  all sorts of  pasties  .
The  origins  of the pasty are unclear ,  हालांकि  there are many  सन्दर्भ  to them  throughout  historical  दस्तावेज़  and  fiction   .
the   pasty  is now popular world-wide due to  the   स्प्रेड  of Cornish miners , and variations can be found in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   ,  the United States , Mexico  और  elsewhere .
The ( ortho-  )  sympathetic  बेचैन  system  (  SNS ) is one of three major  भाग  of  the  autonomic nervous system : the others being the  enteric  and parasympathetic systems .
इसके   सामान्य  action is  to   mobilize  the body  's  nervous system fight-or-flight response .
It is  ,  however  ,  constantly  क्रियाशील  at a basic level to  maintain   समस्थापन  .
Secure Digital or ( SD )  is  a non-volatile memory  कार्ड  format for  उपयोग  in  पोर्टेबल  devices , such as mobile phones  ,  digital  कैमरे  , GPS navigation devices ,  और  tablet computers .
The Secure Digital standard is maintained by the SD Card Association ( SDA ) .
SD technologies  have  been implemented in more  than   400  brands across dozens  of  product categories and  अधिक  than 8,000 models  .
the   सुरक्षित  Digital  स्वरूप  includes four card  परिवारों  available  in  three different  रूप  factors .
The four families are the original  standard-capacity  (  sdsc  ) , the High-Capacity (  sdhc  ) , the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ) , and  the  SDIO ,  जिससे  combines input/output functions with  आंकड़ा  storage .
The three form  कारकों  are the  असली  size ,  the  ``  मिनी  '' size , and the `` micro ''  आकार  ( see illustration ) .
There  हैं  many combinations of form factors  और  device families .
Electrically passive adapters allow the use of a smaller card in  a  host device built to hold a larger card .
Host devices that comply  साथ  newer versions of the specification provide backward compatibility and accept older SD cards , but  इस  article explains  अनेक  factors  कि  can prevent the use  of   a  newer  sd  card:
a   नए  card  may  offer  वृहद   क्षमता  than the host device can handle .
A  नए  card  may  use a  संचिका  system the host device can not  navigate   .
Use of an SDIO card requires the  मेजबान  device be designed for the input/output functions the  कार्ड  provides  .
The organization of  the  card  थी  changed  starting  with the SDHC family .
Some vendors produced SDSC  ताश  above 1  gb  before the SDA had standardized a method of  doing   so  .
The SDA uses  अनेक  trademarked  लोगो  to enforce compliance with  इसके  specifications and assure users of  संगतता  .
The  following  is  a  List of  आलोचकों  of the New Deal .
Daniel Lawrence  व्हिटनी  (  born   फ़रवरी   17  , 1963 ) best known by his stage name and character Larry the  केबल  Guy , is an American stand-up comedian , actor , country music artist , voice actor , and former radio personality .
He was one of the members of the Blue Collar Comedy  दौरे  , a comedy troupe  जिससे  included  विधेयक  Engvall , Ron  श्वेत  , and Jeff Foxworthy ( with whom he  रै   स्ट्रक्चर  on Blue Collar TV )  .
व्हिटनी  has released  सात  comedy  एल्बम  , of  जिससे  three have been certified  सुनहरा  by the  riaa   लिये  shipments of 500,000 copies .
in  addition  ,   he   रै   स्ट्रक्चर  in  तीन  Blue  कॉलर  Comedy  tour-related  movies , as  खूब  as in the  films  Larry the Cable Guy : Health  इंस्पेक्टर  , Delta Farce , and Witless  सुरक्षा  , as well as voicing Mater in  the  Cars franchise  .
Whitney 's catchphrase : ``  git-r-done  ! '' is  भी  the title of his book .
On January 26 , 2010 , the TV channel History  घोषित  that it was ordering a series starring Whitney called Only in America with Larry the Cable Guy , in  जिससे  he would  explore   the  country and  immerse  himself in different lifestyles  ,  jobs , and hobbies .
The first episode  of  the series aired on February 8  ,  2011  .
Vitamin D  is  a group  of   fat-soluble  secosteroids responsible for intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate  .
In humans ,  the  most  महत्वपूर्ण   सम्बन्धित  compounds of  विटामिन  D are vitamin D2 and vitamin  d3   .
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 )  और  ergocalciferol (  विटामिन  D2 ) are  अद्वितीय  as they constitute  कया  we know  as  vitamin D and can  be  ingested from the diet  and/or  supplements .
the  body can  भी   synthesize   विटामिन   d   (  from cholesterol ) when sun  एक्सपोज़र  is adequate ( hence its nickname  ,  the ``  सनशाइन  vitamin '' ) .
Although vitamin D is commonly called  a  vitamin , it  is   नहीं  actually an  अनिवार्य   dietary  vitamin in the  सख्त  sense , as  it  can be synthesized in adequate amounts by  सबसे   स्तनधारियों  exposed to  धूप  .
( Cats  और   कुत्तो  can not  synthesize  vitamin D efficiently and must receive it in their  आहार  . )
An organic chemical compound (  or   सम्बन्धित   नियत  of  यौगिकों   )  is only scientifically called a vitamin  जब  it can not be  synthesized  in sufficient quantities  by  an organism , and must be obtained from their  आहार  .
however  , as with other compounds commonly called  विटामिन  , vitamin D  थी   खोजा   in   an  effort  to   ढूँढें  the dietary substance that was lacking  in  a disease , namely , rickets , the childhood form  of  osteomalacia .
Additionally , like other compounds called vitamins ,  in  the developed  संसार  vitamin  d  is  added  to staple  भोजन  , such as milk , to avoid disease  due  to deficiency .
Measures of  सीरम  levels  प्रतिबिंबित  endogenous  संश्लेषण  from  एक्सपोज़र  to sunlight as  खूब  as intake  इससे  the diet , and it  is   believed  that synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations .
The  प्रमाण  indicates  कि  the  संश्लेषण   of  vitamin D from  सूर्य   एक्सपोज़र   works   in   a  feedback loop that prevents toxicity but , because of uncertainty about the cancer  रिस्क  from sunlight , no recommendations  हैं  issued by the Institute of  आयुर्विज्ञान   ,  USA ,  लिये  the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements .
तदनुसार  , the Dietary Reference Intakes for  विटामिन  D assume that  no  synthesis occurs  और  that all of  a  person  's   विटामिन  D is from their diet , although that will rarely occur in  अभ्यास  .
In the liver vitamin  d  is converted to calcidiol , which is also known as calcifediol (  इन   )  , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol , or 25-hydroxyvitamin  d—abbreviated  25 ( OH )  d  ; and which  is   the  specific vitamin D metabolite that is  measured  in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status .
Part of  the  calcidiol is converted  by  the kidneys  to  calcitriol  ,  the biologically active  रूप   of  vitamin  D.  Calcitriol  circulates   as  a hormone in the blood ,  regulating  the concentration of  कैल्सियम  and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy  विकास  and  remodeling  of bone .
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys  लिये  other purposes , such as the proliferation  ,  differentiation  और   apoptosis  of  कोशिकाएं  ;  calcitriol  also affects  neuromuscular  function and  सूजन  .
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia  or  rickets , the  प्रमाण  for other health effects of vitamin D supplementation in the  सामान्य   जनसांख्यिकी   is  inconsistent .
the   बेहतरीन  evidence of benefit is for  अस्थि  health and  a  decrease  in  mortality in elderly women .
Standard form of the periodic  तालिका  .
the  colors represent different  श्रेणी  of elements  समझाया  below .
The periodic table  is   a  tabular  प्रदर्शक  of the chemical elements , organized on the basis of  उनके  atomic numbers  ,  electron configurations , and recurring chemical  गुण  .
तत्व  are  प्रस्तुत  in order of increasing  परमाणु  number ( number of protons ) .
the  standard form of table  comprises  an 18 × 7 grid  or  main  देह  of elements ,  positioned  above a smaller double row  of  elements .
The table  can   भी  be  deconstructed  into four  आयताकार  blocks : the s-block to  the  left ,  the   p-block  to  the  right , the d-block in  the  middle , and the f-block below that .
The rows of the table are called  अवधि  ; the  कालम  of the s- , d- , and  p-blocks  are called groups , with some of these  having  names such as the  हैलोजन्स  or the noble gases .
चूंकि  , by definition , a periodic table incorporates recurring trends , any such table can be used to derive  संबंध  between the  गुण  of the elements and  भविष्यवाणी  the  गुण   of  new , yet to be discovered or synthesized  ,  elements .
As  a  result  ,   a  periodic table—whether in  the  standard form or some other variant—provides a  उपयोगी  framework for analyzing chemical behavior , and such tables are widely used in  रसायन  and other  sciences  .
Although precursors  मौजूद  ,  dmitri  Mendeleev is generally credited with the publication , in 1869 , of the first widely  पहचाना   आवधिक   तालिका  .
He  विकसित  his  तालिका  to illustrate periodic trends in the  गुण   of  the then-known elements  .
mendeleev  also predicted some properties of  then-unknown  elements that would be expected to fill  गैप  in  इस  table .
Most  of  his predictions were proved correct when the elements in  सवाल  were subsequently discovered  .
Mendeleev  's  periodic table has since  महरूम  expanded and refined with  the  discovery or synthesis of further new elements and the development of  नई  theoretical  मॉडल   to  explain chemical behavior .
All elements from atomic numbers 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 (  ununoctium  ) have been  खोजा   or  synthesized .
The  तत्व  from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have  महरूम   मिला  to exist  naturally  , although some are found only  in  trace amounts and were  initially  discovered by synthesis in laboratories  .
The  तत्व   बाद  98 have only been synthesized in  laboratories  .
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued  ,  with  the   सवाल   of  how  the  periodic table may need  to  be modified  to   accommodate   कोई  such additions being a matter of ongoing  बहस  .
Numerous  सिंथेटिक  radionuclides  of   naturally  occurring elements have also been produced in laboratories .
न्यूनतम  wage  by  U.S. state  और  U.S. territory (  अमरीकी  Samoa  ,  Guam , Puerto Rico , Virgin Islands ) , as of  jan.  1 , 2013 .
In the United States , workers are generally entitled to be paid  no  less than the  statutory   न्यूनतम  wage .
The federal  सरकारी  mandates  a  nationwide minimum wage level of  $  7.25 per hour , while some states and municipalities have set minimum wage levels higher than  the  federal level , with  the  highest state minimum wage being $ 9.19 per  घंटा  in  वॉशिंगटन  as of 2013  .
Among those paid by the  घंटा   in  2012 , 1.6  लाख  were reported as earning  exactly   the  prevailing federal minimum wage  .
परिचय  2.0 million were reported as  कमाई  wages below the  न्यूनतम   .
Together , these 3.6 million workers with wages at or below  the  minimum made  up  4.7  प्रतिशत  of all hourly-paid workers .
a  selection  of  Bourbons and Tennessee whiskeys offered at a  liquor  store in  decatur  , Georgia
Evan Williams bourbon whiskey
Bourbon  whiskey  is a type of American whiskey  –  a  barrel-aged   आसुत  spirit made primarily  इससे  corn .
The name of  the  spirit  गर्भाशयी  from  इसके  historical association with an area known as  बूढ़ा  Bourbon , around what is now Bourbon  काउंटी  , Kentucky ( which , in turn ,  थी  named after  the  French House of Bourbon royal family ) .
it  has been produced since the 18th century .
While it may  be  made anywhere in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  it  is  strongly  associated with  the  American South  in  general  ,  and Kentucky in particular .
The Mona Lisa  (  La Gioconda or La Joconde ) is  a   half-length  portrait of a  स्त्री  by the Italian artist Leonardo  da   विंची  , which  रै  been acclaimed as `` the best known , the most visited , the most written about ,  the  most sung about  ,   the  most parodied  कार्य  of art  in  the  संसार   .   ''
The painting , thought to be a portrait of Lisa Gherardini , the wife  of   francesco  del Giocondo , is  in  oil on a poplar panel  ,  and is believed  to  have  महरूम  painted  between  1503 and  1506  .
It was acquired  by   किंग  Francis I of France  और  is now the property of the French  गणतंत्र  , on  स्थाई  display at the  musée  du Louvre in Paris  चूंकि  1797 .
The  ambiguity  of  the  subject 's expression , which is  अक्सर  described as enigmatic , the monumentality  of  the composition  ,  the subtle modeling  of  forms and the atmospheric  illusionism  were  अनोखा  qualities that have contributed to the  continuing  fascination and  पढ़ाई  of the work .
Robert  एलन  Palmer ( 19  जनवरी  1949  –  26 September 2003 ) , was an English singer-songwriter and  संगीतकार  .
He was known for his distinctive voice and the eclectic mix of musical styles  on   उसके   एल्बम  , combining soul , jazz , rock , pop , reggae and  ब्लूज़  .
he  found success both in his solo career  और   in  the musical  अधिनियम   the  Power  स्टेशन  , and  था  Top 10 songs  in   दोनो  the UK and the US .
His iconic music videos by Terence Donovan for the hits `` Addicted to Love ``  और   ``   बस  Irresistible `` featured identically dressed dancing  महिलाओं  with  पाले  faces ,  अंधेरा  eye makeup  और  bright red lipstick , which resembled the women in the art of Patrick Nagel , an  कलाकार  popular in the 1980s .
Sharp-suited , his involvement in the music industry commenced in  the  1960s  ,  covered  पाँच  decades and included  a   वर्तनी   साथ  Vinegar Joe .
Palmer received  a   क्रमांक  of awards throughout his  करियर  , including two Grammy Awards for Best  पुरूष   चट्टान  Vocal Performance ,  an   एमटीवी  Video Music Award , and was twice nominated for the Brit Award  लिये   बेहतरीन  British Male .
Computed tomography angiography ( CTA )  is  a computed tomography technique used to visualize arterial and venous vessels throughout  the  body  .
This ranges from arteries serving  the   दिमाग  to  those  bringing blood to the lungs , kidneys , arms and legs  .
the  Champs-Élysées decorated with flags for Bastille Day
Horseman  of  the French Republican Guard during the 2007 military  परेड  on the  champs-élysées  .
Prise  de  la Bastille  by  Jean-Pierre-Louis-Laurent Houel
Bastille Day is the  नाम  given in  english-speaking   देशों  to the French National  दिन   ,  which is celebrated  on  the 14th of July each year .
In France , it is  formally   पुकारा   la  Fête  nationale  ( ; The National Celebration ) and commonly Le  quatorze  juillet (  ;   the  fourteenth of July  )   .
it  commemorates the  1790  Fête  de  la Fédération , held on  the   पहला  anniversary  of  the storming of the Bastille on 14 July  1789  ; the anniversary of  the  storming of  the  Bastille fortress-prison was seen  as  a symbol of  the  uprising of the  आधुनिक  nation  ,  and of the reconciliation of all the French inside the constitutional  साम्राज्य   जिससे  preceded the First Republic  ,  during the French Revolution .
Festivities and official ceremonies are held all over France .
The oldest and largest regular military parade in Europe is held on  the   morning   of  14 July  ,  on the Champs-Élysées  एवेन्यू  in Paris in front of the President of  the   गणतंत्र  , French officials and foreign  अतिथि  .
The United States of America ( USA  or  U.S.A. ) , commonly called the United States ( US or U.S. )  or  America ,  is  a federal republic  consisting   of  fifty states and a federal district .
The  निम्नतर  forty-eight contiguous states and the federal district of Washington  ,  D.C. are in  सेंट्रल  North America between Canada and  मैक्सिको  .
the  state of Alaska  is  west of  कनाडा  and east of Russia  आरपार  the Bering Strait , and  the  state of Hawaii is in the mid-North Pacific .
The country also has five populated and nine unpopulated territories in the Pacific and the Caribbean .
At 3.79 million square miles  (  9.83 million km2 ) and with around 315 million people , the United States is  the  third-  or  fourth-largest  देश   by  total area and the third-largest  by  both  जमीन  area  और  population .
It  is  one of the  संसार  's most ethnically diverse and multicultural nations  ,  the product  of  large-scale immigration from many countries  .
The geography and climate of the U.S. is  भी  extremely diverse  ,  with deserts , plains  ,  forests , and mountains that are home to a wide variety  of  species .
Paleoindians  migrated  from Asia to  कया  is now  the  United States  मेनलैंड  around 15,000 years ago .
बाद  1500  ,  Old World diseases introduced by Europeans greatly reduced  उनके   populations  .
European colonization began around  1600  and came mostly from England .
The  संयुक्त  States emerged  इससे   तेरह  British colonies  स्तिथ  along the  अटलांटिक  seaboard .
Disputes between Great Britain and  the   अमरीकी  colonies  led  to  the  American Revolution .
On July 4  ,   1776  , delegates from the 13 colonies unanimously issued  the  Declaration of Independence , which  स्थापित  the  संयुक्त  States of America .
the  American  क्रांतिकारी  War  ,  which  ended  with  the  recognition  of  independence of the United States  इससे  the  किंगडम   of  Great Britain , was the  पहला  successful war of independence against a European colonial empire .
The current  संविधान  was adopted on  सितंबर  17 , 1787 ; twenty-seven  amendments  have since been  added   to  the  संविधान  .
The first  टेन  amendments ,  collectively   नामित  the  विधेयक  of Rights , were  ratified  in 1791 and  गारंटी  many fundamental civil rights and freedoms .
Driven by  the  doctrine of manifest destiny , the United States embarked on a vigorous  विस्तार  across North America throughout the 19th century  .
This involved displacing native  जनजातियों  ,  acquiring  new  territories   ,  and  धीरे  admitting new states .
The American Civil  युद्ध   ended  legalized slavery in the United States  .
By the end  of   the  nineteenth century ,  the  United States extended into the Pacific Ocean  ,  and its economy was the  संसार  's largest  .
The  spanish–american  War and  पुष्टि   the  country 's status as a global military power .
The  संयुक्त  States emerged from as a global superpower  ,   the  first country with nuclear weapons  ,   और  a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council .
The end of  the  Cold War and the  विच्छेद   of  the  सोवियत  Union left the United States  as  the  एकमात्र   महाशक्ति  .
The United States is a developed country and has  the  world 's  largest  national economy , with  an   अनुमानित  2012 GDP  of  $ 15.6  खरब  19 % of global GDP at purchasing-power parity  ,  as  of  2011 .
The per capita GDP of the U.S.  थी  the world 's sixth-highest as of 2010 , although America 's wealth  असमानता   थी  also ranked highest among OECD countries by the  संसार   बैंको  .
The economy is fueled  by  an  प्रचुरता   of   प्राकृतिक   संसाधन  , a well-developed infrastructure  ,  and high productivity ;  और  while its economy is considered post-industrial it continues to  be   एक  of the world 's largest  निर्माताओं  .
The country accounts for 39 % of  वैश्विक  military spending , and is a leading economic ,  राजनैतिक  , and cultural force in the world ,  as  well as a  नेता   in  scientific research and  technological  innovation  .
The NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championship is  a  single-elimination tournament played each spring in the United  राज्य  , currently featuring  68  college basketball teams , to determine the national championship of the  प्रमुख  college basketball teams  .
The tournament , organized  by  the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ) ,  थी   निर्मित  during 1939  by  the National  संघ   of  Basketball Coaches , and was the idea of  ओहियो  State University coach  हेरोल्ड   olsen   .
निभाई  mostly  दौरान  March  ,  it is known informally as March Madness or the Big Dance , and has become one  of  the most famous annual sporting  कार्यक्रम  in the United  राज्य  .
The  ncaa   रै   credited  Bob  वाल्श  of the Seattle Organizing Committee for starting the  कूच  Madness celebration during 1984 .
the  tournament teams include champions from  31  Division  i  conferences (  जिससे   प्राप्त   स्वचालित  bids )  ,   और  37 teams  जिससे  are  awarded  at-large berths .
These `` at-large '' teams  हैं  chosen by an NCAA selection committee , as detailed below .
the  64 teams are divided into four  regions  and organized into  a  single  विलोपन   ``   कोष्ठक  ''  ,  which  predetermines  , when a team wins a game , which team it  होगा  face next .
Each team is `` seeded '' ,  or  ranked  ,  within its region .
बाद  an initial four games between eight lower-ranked teams , the  टूर्नामेंट  occurs during the course of three weekends  ,  at pre-selected neutral  साइट  around the United States .
Lower-ranked teams are placed in the bracket  विरूद्ध  higher ranked teams .
Each weekend eliminates three-fourths of the teams , from a round of 64 , to a `` Sweet Sixteen '' ,  और  for the last weekend of the  टूर्नामेंट  a Final Four ; the Final Four is usually played during the first weekend of April .
ये   चार  teams  ,  one from  प्रत्येक  region , then  compete  in one location for the national championship  .
The tournament  रै  been  at   तनिक  partially televised since 1969 .
presently  ,  the  games are reported by CBS ,  tbs  ,  टीएनटी   ,  and truTV  by  the trade-name NCAA March Madness .
Since 2011 , all games are available for viewing nationwide  .
As television coverage has grown , so  too   रै  the tournament 's popularity .
Presently , millions of Americans `` fill out a bracket '' ,  predicting  winners of all 67 games .
With 11 national titles , UCLA has the record for the most NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championships ;  जॉन  Wooden coached UCLA to 10 of its 11 titles .
The University of Kentucky is  दूसरी  ,  साथ  8 national titles ,  जबकि  Indiana University and the University of North Carolina are  tied  for third with  5   नेशनल  titles .
Duke University ranks fifth with 4 national  शीर्षक  .
A sample of synthetic  मोटर  oil
सिंथेटिक  oil is a  स्नेहक   consisting  of chemical compounds that are artificially  बना  (  synthesized  ) .
Synthetic lubricants can be  manufactured  using  chemically  modified petroleum components rather than  पूरे  crude oil , but can also  be  synthesized  इससे  other raw materials .
सिंथेटिक   आयल  is used as a substitute for lubricant refined from  पेट्रोलियम  when operating in extremes of temperature ,  क्युकी  , in general , it provides superior mechanical and chemical  गुण   than  those found in traditional mineral oils .
Aircraft jet  इंजन   ,  for example , require  the   उपयोग  of  सिंथेटिक   oils   ,  whereas  वायुयान  piston engines do not .
Jackass is an American reality series , originally shown on MTV from 2000  to   2002  , featuring people  performing  various dangerous ,  crude  self-injuring stunts and  pranks   .
The show  परोसा  as  a  launchpad for the television and acting careers of  bam  Margera  ,  Steve-O , and also  जॉनी  Knoxville , who previously had only a few  नाबालिग  acting  भूमिकाएँ  .
चूंकि  2002 , three  बेवकूफ़  films have been produced and released by  एमटीवी  corporate sibling Paramount Pictures , continuing the franchise after its  चलाएं  on television .
the   दिखाएँ   sparked  several spin-offs including Viva La Bam  ,   wildboyz  , Homewrecker  ,  Dr. Steve-O and Blastazoid .
The show  लगाई   #  68  on  Entertainment Weekly `` New  tv  Classics '' list .
Roseanne Cherrie Barr (  born   नवम्बर  3 , 1952 )  is  an American  अभिनेत्री  , comedienne , writer , television producer  ,  director  ,  and  2012  presidential nominee  of  the California -based Peace and Freedom Party .
Barr  began  her career in  stand-up  comedy at clubs before  gaining   कीर्ति   लिये  her role in the sitcom Roseanne .
The show was a hit  और  lasted nine seasons  ,  from 1988  to  1997 .
She won both an Emmy and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress  लिये  her work  on  the show .
barr   था  crafted a `` fierce working-class domestic goddess '' persona in the eight  सालो   preceding  her  sitcom  and  चाही   to  do a  यथार्थवादी   दिखाएँ  about a strong mother who  थी  not a  शिकार  of patriarchal  भोगवाद  .
the  granddaughter of immigrants from Europe and Russia ,  barr  was the oldest of four children in a  working-class   यहूदी  Salt Lake City family ; she was also active in the LDS Church .
In  1974  ,  वो  married Bill Pentland , with  जिसको  she had three children , before divorcing in 1990 and marrying comedian Tom Arnold for four  सालो  .
Controversy arose when she  संग  `` The Star-Spangled Banner `` off-key at a 1990 nationally  aired  baseball game , followed  by   grabbing  her crotch  और  spitting .
After her sitcom ended , she launched her own talk show , The Roseanne Show ,  जिससे  aired from 1998 to 2000 .
In 2005 , she returned to stand-up comedy with a world  दौरे  .
In  2011  , she starred in an  unscripted   tv  show , Roseanne 's Nuts , that  lasted  from July to  सितंबर  of that year , about her life on a  हवाई  farm .
In early 2012 , Barr announced her candidacy for the Presidential nomination of the  ग्रीन   पार्टी  .
Barr lost  the   नामांकन  to Jill Stein .
She then sought the  अध्यक्षीय  nomination  of  the Peace  और   स्वतंत्रता  Party ,  जिससे  she  जीती   on   अगस्त  4 , 2012  .
Barr received  61,971  votes in the general election  ,  placing sixth  overall  .
Francesco Albani 's 17th century Baptism  of   मसीह  is a typical depiction with the sky opening and the Holy Spirit descending as a dove .
The  बपतिस्मा  of Jesus marks the beginning  of  his public  मंत्रालय  .
This  इवेंट   is  recorded in the  canonical  gospels of Matthew , Mark and  ल्यूक   .
जॉन  's gospel does  नहीं  describe Jesus ' baptism , but John the Baptist does  गवाही  of the other things in .
In the New Testament , John the Baptist preached the baptism of  तौबा  for the remission of sins (  )  , and declared himself a forerunner of he that would baptize ``  साथ  the  पावन  Ghost and  साथ  fire '' (  )   .
In so doing  he  was preparing the  रास्ता  for Jesus .
Jesus  आए  to the  जॉर्डन  River where he  थी   baptized  by John .
the   baptismal  scene includes the heavens  खोलने  , a dove-like descent of the Holy  स्पिरिट  ,  और  a voice from  स्वर्ग  saying , `` This is my beloved Son  ,   in   जिसको  I am  खूब  pleased . ''
Most modern scholars view the fact that Jesus  थी  baptized by  जॉन  as an historical event to which  a  high degree of certainty can be  आबंटित  .
Along with the  crucifixion   of   यीशु  most  विद्वानों  view it as one  of  the two historically certain  तथ्य  about him , and often use it as the  starting  points for the study of  the  historical Jesus .
The  बपतिस्मा   is  one of the  पाँच  major milestones  in  the gospel narrative of the life of  यीशु  , the others being the  बासीलीक  , Crucifixion , Resurrection , and  आरोहण  .
Most Christian denominations view the baptism of Jesus  as  an important  इवेंट  and a basis  लिये   the   ईसाई  rite of baptism ( see also ) .
In Eastern Christianity ,  यीशु  ' baptism is commemorated  on  6 January , the  feast   of   epiphany  .
In the  रोमन  Catholic Church , the Anglican  नियाज़   ,  the Lutheran Churches  और  some other Western denominations , it is recalled on a  दिन  within the following week , the feast of the baptism of  the  Lord .
In Roman  catholicism  , the  बपतिस्मा  of Jesus  is   एक  of the Luminous  रहस्यों  sometimes  added  to the Rosary  .
It is  a  Trinitarian feast in the Eastern Orthodox Churches .
Methylcobalamin ( shown )  is  a form  of  vitamin  b12  .
Physically it resembles the other forms of  विटामिन  B12 , occurring  as  dark red crystals that freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water .
Vitamin B12 ,  विटामिन  B12 or vitamin B-12  ,  also called cobalamin , is a water-soluble vitamin with  a   कुंजी   भूमिका   in   the  normal functioning of the brain and nervous system , and for the  गठन  of blood .
It  is  one of the eight B vitamins  .
It  is  normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body  ,   विशेषकर  affecting DNA synthesis and regulation , but also fatty acid synthesis and energy  उत्पादन  .
Neither fungi , plants  ,  nor animals are capable of producing vitamin B12 .
Only bacteria and archaea  have  the enzymes required for  इसके  synthesis ,  हालांकि  many foods are  a  natural source of B12 because  of   बैक्टीरियल  symbiosis  .
The vitamin is the largest  और  most structurally complicated vitamin and can be produced  industrially  only through bacterial  fermentation-synthesis  .
विटामिन  B12 consists  of   a  class of chemically related  यौगिकों   (  vitamers ) ,  सब  of  जिससे  have vitamin activity .
It contains  the  biochemically rare element cobalt .
Biosynthesis  of   the  basic structure of the  विटामिन  is  संपन्नता  only by bacteria ( which  प्रायः  produce hydroxocobalamin ) ,  लकिन  conversion  between  different forms of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body .
A common semi-synthetic  रूप  of the vitamin , cyanocobalamin ,  करता  not occur in nature , but is produced from bacterial  hydroxocobalamin  and then used in many  दवाएँ  and supplements  ,  and as  a   खाना  additive , because  of   इसके  stability and lower production cost  .
In the  देह  it is converted to the human physiological  फ़ॉर्म  methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin , leaving  पीछे  the cyanide , albeit in minimal concentration .
More  recently  , hydroxocobalamin , methylcobalamin ,  और  adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological products  और   खाना  supplements .
The extra  यूटिलिटी  of these is currently debated .
Vitamin B12 was  खोजा   इससे  its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia , which  is  an autoimmune  बीमारी  in which  parietal  cells of the stomach  जिम्मेदार   लिये  secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed .
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal absorption of B12  ,  so a lack  of  intrinsic factor , as  देखी  in  घातक   रक्ताल्पता  ,  कल्याणकारी   a  vitamin B12  कमियां  .
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency and their biochemical effects  have   चूंकि   महरूम  elucidated .
Full Metal Jacket  is  a  1987  war film  उत्पादित  , directed and co-written by  स्टेनली   kubrick  .
It is an adaptation of Gustav Hasford 's  1979  novel The  short-timers  and stars Matthew  modine  , Vincent D'Onofrio , R. Lee  ermey  ,  arliss  Howard , and Adam  baldwin  .
The film follows a platoon of U.S.  marines  through their training and the experiences of  दो   of  the platoon  's  Marines in the  tet  Offensive during  the  Vietnam War  .
The film 's title refers to  the   पूरा   मेटल   जैकेट  bullet used  by  infantry riflemen .
The film  प्राप्त   नाजुक   acclaim  .
it  received  an  Academy Award  नामांकन  for Best Adapted Screenplay  लिये  Kubrick , Michael  हेर   और  Gustav Hasford  .
In 2001  ,   the   अमरीकी  Film  संस्थान  placed Full Metal Jacket at # 95 in  उनके  `` AFI 's 100 Years ... 100  thrills  `` poll .
tmz  is  a  celebrity news website  कि  debuted on November 8 , 2005 .
It  थी   a  collaboration between AOL and Telepictures Productions , a division of  warner  Bros.  ,  until  समय  Warner divested AOL in 2009 .
However  ,   it  remained affiliated with AOL News and has the AOL News logo  affixed  in  the  upper right corner .
The name  tmz  stands for the historic `` studio  मण्डल  ``  or   30-mile  zone radius  इससे  the intersection of  वेस्ट  Beverly  boulevard  and North La Cienega Boulevard in Los Angeles  .
TMZ 's managing editor is  घनघोर  Levin , a  lawyer-turned-journalist  who was  previously  a legal expert for the  लॉस  Angeles television station KCBS-TV .
the  site claims  कि  it does not pay for stories  or  interviews  ;  however , Levin has admitted that TMZ does `` sometimes pay sources for  लीड  on stories '' .
Levin has stated that `` everything is researched and vetted for accuracy . ''
A  साथी  TV series , TMZ on TV , debuted on September 10 ,  2007  .
चीख  3 is a 2000 American slasher film created by  केविन  Williamson , directed by Wes Craven  और  written by Ehren Kruger ,  अभिनीत  Neve Campbell , Courteney  कॉक्स  Arquette and David Arquette .
it  was  released  on February 4  ,  2000  as  the third  किश्त  in the Scream film series .
The  कार्यक्रम  of the story are set three years after  those  of Scream 2  और  follows  sidney  Prescott ( Campbell )  जो  has gone into self-imposed  अलगाव  following the events of  the   पिछला  two films but is drawn  to  Hollywood after a new Ghostface begins killing the cast of the film within a film `` Stab 3 '' .
Scream 3 combines the violence of  the  slasher  विधा  with comedy  और  `` whodunit `` mystery while satirizing  the  cliché of film trilogies  .
नापसंद  the previous Scream films ,  वहीँ   थी   an  increased  जोर  on comedic  तत्व  and the violence and horror was reduced in response to increased public scrutiny  परिचय  violence  in  media  following  the Columbine High  स्कूल  massacre .
The film was the concluding  अध्याय  of the Scream series until  it  was revived with a sequel , Scream 4 , in 2011 .
Williamson  provided   a  five-page outline for two  सिक्वेल  to Scream when auctioning  उसके   असली  script ,  उम्मीद   to   entice   bidders   साथ  the  संभावित   of  buying a franchise .
Williamson 's commitments to other projects meant he was unable to develop a complete script for  चीख   3   और  writing duties were undertaken  by  Ehren Kruger who discarded much of Williamson 's  टीप  .
craven  and  मार्को  Beltrami returned to direct and score the film respectively as they had with the previous two series  प्रविष्टियां  .
Production was troubled with script rewrites , with pages sometimes only ready  on   the  day of filming  ,  and scheduling difficulties with  the  main cast  .
Scream 3 performed both financially and  critically  worse than its preceding films , earning  over  $ 161 million  और  with many critics  claiming  that the film had become  कया  Scream  originally  `` spoofed  ``  .
Despite negative  आलोचना   the  film did receive praise  साथ   reviewers  calling it the perfect  समाप्त  to the  चीख  trilogy  .
as  of  2012  , the film is currently  the  number  3   highest-grossing  slasher-film in North America , following Scream at number 1 and Scream 2 at number 2 .
The film 's soundtrack was well-received  ,  spending fourteen weeks  on  the Billboard 200 and reaching a high of #  32  .
Shoulder impingement  सिंड्रोम   ,  also called painful arc syndrome , supraspinatus syndrome , swimmer  's  shoulder , and thrower 's shoulder ,  is  a clinical  सिंड्रोम  which occurs when the tendons of the rotator  कफ  muscles  become   irritated   और  inflamed  as  they pass through the subacromial space , the passage beneath the  acromion   .
This can  परिणाम  in pain  ,  weakness and loss of movement at the shoulder .
jla  was a monthly comic book  प्रकाशित  by DC Comics from January 1997 to April  2006   featuring  the Justice  लीग  .
the  colonial history  of  the United States covers the history of European  settlements   इससे  the start  of  colonization of America until their incorporation into the United States .
In the late 16th  सदी  , England , France ,  स्पेन  and the Netherlands launched major colonization programs in eastern North America .
Small early attempts—such as the  अंग्रेज़ी  Lost  उपनिवेश  of Roanoke —often  disappeared  ;  everywhere  the death rate of the  पहला   आमद  was very high  .
nevertheless  successful colonies were established .
European  settlers  came from a variety of social and religious groups .
No  aristocrats   settled  permanently , but  a  number of adventurers , soldiers  ,   किसानो  ,  और  tradesmen arrived .
विविधता  was an American  characteristic  as the Dutch of New Netherland , the Swedes and  finns  of New  स्वीडन  , the English Quakers of Pennsylvania  ,   the   अंग्रेज़ी  Puritans of New England , the English  settlers   of  Jamestown  ,   और  the ``  worthy  poor '' of Georgia  ,   आए  to  the  new continent and built colonies with distinctive social , religious , political  और  economic styles .
Occasionally one colony took  कंट्रोल  of another  (  during wars between their European parents ) .
तभी  in Nova Scotia ( now part  of  Canada ) did the conquerors expel the  पिछला   colonists  .
Instead they all lived side  by  side in  सलाम   .
There were no major civil  युद्धों   among   the  13 colonies , and the  दो  chief armed rebellions ( in Virginia in  1676  and  in  New  यॉर्क  in 1689–91 ) were  short-lived  failures .
युद्धों  between the  फ्रेंच   और   the  British—the  फ्रेंच  and Indian Wars and Father Rale 's War —were recurrent ,  और  involved French-support for Wabanaki Confederacy  हमले   on  the frontiers .
By 1760 France was  पराजित  and  the  British seized its colonies .
the  four distinct regions were : New  इंग्लैण्ड  , the Middle  colonies  ,  the  Chesapeake Bay Colonies  (  Upper  दक्षिण   )  and the Lower South .
Some  इतिहासकारों  add a  पांचवां  region  ,  the Frontier , which was never separately organized  .
By the  समय   यूरोपीय   settlers  arrived around 1600–1650 , the majority of the Native Americans living in  the   पूर्वी  United States had  महरूम  decimated  by  new diseases , introduced to them decades before by explorers and  sailors  .
See timeline of Colonial America for list  of  historical events .
Gloria Laura Vanderbilt ( born February 20 ,  1924   )  is  an  American  कलाकार   ,  author ,  अभिनेत्री   ,  heiress ,  और  socialite  सबसे  noted as an early developer of designer blue jeans  .
She is a member  of   the  prominent Vanderbilt family of New York and the mother of CNN 's Anderson  कूपर  .
यूनानियों  ( Romanization of Greek| ) ,  officially   the  Hellenic  गणतंत्र   (  ' )  ,  is a country in Southeast Europe .
According to the 2011 census , Greece 's population  is   around  11 million  .
Athens is  the  nation 's capital and largest city , its urban area also including Piraeus .
Greece is strategically located  at  the crossroads  of  Europe , Asia , the Middle East , and Africa , and has land  सीमायें   साथ  Albania  ,  the Republic of  मकदूनिया   और  Bulgaria to the north , and Turkey to the northeast  .
the  Aegean Sea lies to  the   ईस्ट   of  mainland Greece , the Ionian Sea to  the  west , and the Mediterranean  समुद्र  to the south .
Greece has the 11th  longest  coastline in the world at in length , featuring  a  vast number  of   आइलैंड्स  ( approximately 1,400 , of which 227  हैं  inhabited ) ,  सहित   क्रेट  ,  the  Dodecanese  ,  the  cyclades  , and the  आयोनियन   आइलैंड्स   among  others .
Eighty  प्रतिशत  of Greece consists of mountains , of which Mount Olympus is the highest  at   .
Modern Greece traces  इसके  roots to the civilization  of   प्राचीन  Greece , generally considered  the  cradle of  पश्चिमी   सभ्यता  .
As such , it is the birthplace of  लोकतंत्र  ,  पश्चिमी  philosophy  ,  the Olympic  खेल  ,  पश्चिमी   साहित्य  and historiography , political science , major scientific and  गणितीय   सिद्धान्त   ,   और  Western drama , including  दोनो   त्रासदी   और  comedy .
इस   विरासत  is partly  reflected  in  the  seventeen UNESCO  संसार  Heritage Sites located in Greece , ranking it 7th in Europe  और  13th in the world .
The modern Greek state was  स्थापित  in 1830  ,  following the Greek War of  स्वतंत्रता  .
Greece  is  a founding member  of  the United Nations , has been a member of  कया  is  अभी   the  European Union since 1981  (   और  the eurozone since  2001  ) , and has been  a  member of NATO since 1952 .
Greece  is  a  विकसित  country with an advanced  ,  high-income economy and very high standards of living , including  the  world 's 21st highest quality of life as  of  2010  .
Greece 's  अर्थव्यवस्था  is also  the  largest in the Balkans  ,  where Greece is an  महत्वपूर्ण  regional investor  .
A prime meridian is a meridian , i.e  .  a line  of   देशांतर  , at which longitude  is  defined to be 0°  .
A  प्रधान  meridian and its opposite in a 360°-system , the 180th meridian  (  at 180° longitude ) , form a great  वृत्त  .
This great circle divides the sphere , e.g .  the  Earth  ,  into two hemispheres .
if  one  उपयोग  directions of East and  वेस्ट  from a defined prime meridian  ,  then they  can  be called Eastern Hemisphere and Western Hemisphere  .
Gerardus Mercator in his  एटलस  Cosmographicae ( 1595 ) uses a  प्रधान  meridian somewhere  बंद  to 25°W , passing just to the west of Santa Maria Island in the Atlantic  .
His 180th meridian runs  साथ  the Strait  of  Anián ( Bering Strait )
A prime meridian is ultimately arbitrary , unlike an equator , which is determined by the axis of rotation—and various conventions  have   महरूम  used or  advocated  in different regions and throughout history .
Minka Dumont Kelly  (  born Minka Dumont  dufay  ; June 24  ,  1980 ) is an  अमरीकी   अभिनेत्री  .
She is perhaps  बेहतरीन  known  लिये  her roles  in   चार्ली  's Angels , Friday Night  लाइट्स  , and  the   रूममेट  .
R.O.B .  (  Robotic Operating Buddy ) , released in Japan as the , is an accessory for the  निन्टेंडो  Entertainment System ( NES ) .
It  थी  released in July 1985 in Japan and later that year in  उत्तर  America .
It had a short  उत्पाद  lifespan  ,  with support for only two games which comprised the `` Robot Series ''  ;  Gyromite and Stack-Up .
R.O.B .  थी  released  साथ  the intention of portraying the Nintendo Entertainment System as something novel in order to alleviate retail fears following  the  video  खेल   क्रैश  of  1983  .
R.O.B . was available in the  डीलक्स  Set  ,  a  विन्यास   लिये  the console that included , among other things , R.O.B  .  and Gyromite  .
Stack-Up was purchased separately and included its own physical  खेल  pieces .
The Walking Liberty half  डालर  was a silver  50-cent  piece or half dollar coin issued by  the   संयुक्त  States Mint from 1916 to 1947  ;  it  थी  designed by Adolph A.  weinman  .
in  1915 , the new Mint  निदेशक  , Robert W. Woolley , came  to  believe that  he  was not only  अनुमत  but required by law  to  replace coin  डिजाइन  that had been in use for  25  years .
He therefore began  the  process of replacing the Barber  coinage   :  dimes , quarters and half  डॉलर  , all  bearing  similar  डिजाइन  by long-time Mint Engraver Charles E. Barber , and first struck in 1892 .
Woolley had the  आयोग  of Fine Arts conduct  a  competition , as a result of which Weinman was selected to design the dime and half dollar .
weinman  's design of  स्वतंत्रता  striding towards the Sun  लिये  the half dollar proved difficult  to   पूर्ण   ,  and  राजकोष  Secretary  विलियम  G. McAdoo ,  जिनकी   विभाग  included  the  Mint , considered having Barber create his  अपना  design .
मिंट  officials were successful in getting Weinman 's  डिज़ाइन   into  production , although it never struck very well , which may  have  been a factor in its replacement  by  the Franklin half dollar  शुरूआत  in 1948 .
Nevertheless , art historian Cornelius Vermeule  माना   the  piece  to  be among the most beautiful US coins  .
Since 1986 , a  परिवर्धन  of Weinman  's   obverse   डिज़ाइन   रै  been  प्रयुक्त  for the  अमरीकी  Silver  त्रिभुज  .
The Toyota 4Runner is a mid-size sport utility vehicle  (  SUV )  उत्पादित  by the  जापानी  manufacturer  टोयोटा   और  sold  throughout  the world from 1984 to  उपस्थित  .
In Japan it was known as the  टोयोटा  Hilux Surf .
The  असली  4Runner was a compact SUV and little more  than  a Toyota pickup truck with a fiberglass shell  over  the bed ,  लकिन  the model  रै  since undergone significant independent development  into  a  क्रॉस   between  a compact and a mid-size  एसयूवी   .
सब  4Runners have been built at  टोयोटा  's Tahara plant in Tahara  ,  Aichi , Japan ,  or  at Hino Motors  '  Hamura , Japan plant , and in Brazil .
इसके  mid-size crossover SUV counterpart is the Toyota Highlander .
इस  article  सौदे  with medicine  as  practiced  by  trained professionals from ancient times to the present  .
The ancient Egyptians had a  प्रणाली  of medicine  कि  was very advanced  लिये  its time and  बहकावे  later medical  परंपराओं  .
The Egyptians and Babylonians both introduced  the  concepts  of  diagnosis , prognosis , and medical  परिक्षा  .
The Greeks went  भी   further  , and advanced as  खूब   चिकित्सा  ethics .
The Hippocratic Oath , still  लिया  by doctors today , was written in Greece in the 5th century BCE .
In the medieval era , surgical practices  inherited  from the ancient masters were  improved  and  तब  systematized in Rogerius 's The  अभ्यास  of Surgery  .
Universities  began  systematic training  of  physicians around the years 1220 in Italy .
During the Renaissance , understanding of anatomy improved ,  और   the  microscope was invented .
The  रोगाणु  theory of disease in the 19th century led to  cures  for many infectious diseases .
Military doctors  उन्नत  the  विधि  of trauma treatment and  सर्जरी   .
Public health measures  यहूद  developed especially in the 19th century as the  रैपिड  growth  of  cities required systematic sanitary measures .
Advanced  शोध  centers opened in the early 20th  सदी  , often connected with  प्रमुख  hospitals  .
the  mid-20th century was characterized by  नई  biological treatments  ,   ऐसे  as antibiotics .
ये  advancements ,  साथ  with developments in chemistry ,  आनुवंशिकी  , and lab  प्रौद्योगिकी  ( such as the x-ray ) led to modern medicine  .
Medicine was heavily  professionalized  in the 20th century  ,   और  new careers opened  to   महिलाओं  as nurses ( from the 1870s  )  and as physicians ( especially  बाद  1970  )  .
The 21st century  is  characterized by very advanced research involving numerous fields of  विज्ञान  .
The  hippocratic  Corpus  ,  is a  संग्रहण  of early medical works  इससे   प्राचीन  Greece strongly associated with the ancient Greek physician Hippocrates and his teachings .
Potassium is a chemical element with symbol K ( from Neo-Latin  kalium  ) and atomic  क्रमांक  19 .
Elemental  पोटैशियम  is a soft silvery-white alkali  मेटल  that oxidizes rapidly in air  और  is very reactive with  जल  , generating sufficient heat to ignite the  हाइड्रोजन  emitted in the reaction  और  burning with a lilac flame .
Because potassium and sodium are  chemically  very similar , their salts were not at first differentiated .
The existence of multiple elements in their salts was suspected from 1702 , and  इस  was proven in  1807  when potassium and  सोडियम  were individually isolated from different  लवण  by electrolysis .
Potassium in nature occurs only in ionic salts .
As such , it  is  found dissolved in seawater ( which is 0.04 %  पोटैशियम  by weight  )  , and is  भाग   of  many minerals .
Most  औद्योगिक   रासायनिक   अनुप्रयोग  of potassium employ the relatively high solubility in water of potassium compounds , such  as  potassium soaps .
Potassium  मेटल  has only a few special applications , being replaced in most chemical reactions with  सोडियम  metal  .
पोटैशियम  ions are necessary for  the   फलन  of all living  कोशिकाएं  .
पोटैशियम  ion  diffusion  is  a   कुंजी   यांत्रिकी  in nerve transmission  ,  and potassium depletion in  पशु  ,  सहित  humans , results in various cardiac  डिस्फंक्शन   .
Potassium  accumulates  in plant cells  ,  and thus fresh fruits  और  vegetables are  a  good dietary source of  it  .
Conversely , most plants except  विशेषज्ञ  halophytes are intolerant  of  salt  ,  and sodium is  उपस्थित  in them only  in  low concentration .
This resulted  in  potassium  पहला  being  पृथक  from  potash  , the ashes of  पौधे  ,  giving  the element its name .
लिये  the same reason ,  भारी  crop  उत्पादन  rapidly depletes soils of potassium , and agricultural fertilizers consume  95  % of global potassium chemical production .
The Singapore dollar or dollar  (  sign  :  $ ; code :  sgd   )  is  the  official currency of Singapore .
It is normally  abbreviated   साथ  the dollar sign $ , or alternatively S  $  to distinguish it from  अन्य  dollar -denominated currencies  .
it  is divided  into  100  सेंट  .
the  Monetary Authority of  सिंगापुर  and  the  Brunei  करेंसी  and Monetary Board still maintain the historic exchangeability of their two currencies ,  the  Singaporean  डालर  and the Brunei dollar , respectively .
the  dollar is accepted  as   ``  customary  टेंडर   ''  in Brunei according  to  the Currency Interchangeability Agreement  .
Likewise ,  the  Brunei dollar is  customarily  accepted  in  Singapore
James  सैमुएल  Coleman ( May 12 , 1926  –  March 25 , 1995 ) was an American sociologist , theorist and empirical researcher  ,  based chiefly  at  the University of Chicago  .
He was elected president  of  the American Sociological Association .
Coleman studied the sociology of education  ,  public policy  ,  and was one of the  earliest  users of the term ``  सोशल   पूंजी   ``  .
His Foundations of Social Theory influenced  समाजशास्त्रीय  theory .
His The  adolescent   समाज   (   1961  ) and `` Coleman  रपट  ''  (  Equality of Educational Opportunity , 1966 ) were  दो  of the  सबसे  heavily  cited  books in  शैक्षणिक   समाजशास्त्र   .
The landmark Coleman Report  helped  transform  शैक्षणिक  theory , reshape national education  नीतियों  , and influenced  पब्लिक   और  scholarly opinion regarding  the   भूमिका  of schooling in determining  समता   और   उत्पादकता  in the United States .
Superman ( from DC comics  )  was the first superhero created , art by Jim Lee .
A superhero ( sometimes  rendered  super-hero  or  super hero  )   is  a type of stock character possessing `` extraordinary or  superhuman   शक्तियां  '' and dedicated to protecting the public .
Since the debut of  the  prototypical superhero Superman in 1938 , stories of superheroes—ranging  इससे   ब्रैड  episodic  adventures  to continuing years-long sagas—have dominated American comic  किताबे  and crossed over  into  other  मीडिया  .
The word itself dates to at  तनिक   1917  .
A female superhero  is  sometimes called a superheroine ( also rendered super-heroine or super heroine  )  .
``  सुपर  HEROES '' is a trademark co-owned  by  DC Comics  और  Marvel Comics .
By most definitions , characters do not strictly require actual  superhuman  powers to be deemed superheroes , although terms  ऐसे  as  costumed   अपराधों  fighters or masked vigilantes  हैं   sometimes   प्रयुक्त  to refer to those such as Batman and Green Arrow without such  शक्तियां  who share  अन्य  common superhero traits .
Such characters were generally referred to as `` mystery men '' in the so-called Golden Age of Comic Books to distinguish them from characters with  super-powers   .
Normally , superheroes use their powers to counter day-to-day crime while also combating threats against  मानवता   by  supervillains , their  दण्ड  counterparts .
Often  ,   एक  of these supervillains  होगा   be   the  superhero 's archenemy  .
As well , some longrunning superheroes , such as Superman  ,   बैटमैन  , Spider-Man and  आयरन   man  each has  a  rogues  दीर्घा   of  enemies  .
as  well , superheroes sometimes will combat such irregular  खतरे  as aliens , magical/ fantasy  entities  , American  युद्ध  enemies  ऐसे  as nazism or communism , and godlike or demonic creatures  .
The following  is  a  ऐतिहासिक   सूची  of actors and primary character roles which appear on the  अमरीकी  soap opera One  जीवन  to Live .
The Shawshank Redemption is  a  1994 American  नाटक  film written and directed  by  Frank Darabont  और   अभिनीत  Tim Robbins and  मॉर्गन  Freeman .
adapted  from the Stephen  किंग  novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption , the film tells the story of  एंडी  Dufresne  ,  a banker who spends nearly two decades in Shawshank State Prison  लिये  the  हत्या  of  उसके  wife and  उसके  lover despite his claims  of  innocence .
During his time at the  थाना  ,  he  befriends  a  fellow inmate  ,  Ellis Boyd `` Red '' Redding , and finds himself protected  by  the guards after  the  warden  begins  using him in his money laundering operation  .
Despite a  गुनगुने  box office reception that barely  recouped  its budget , the film  प्राप्त  favorable reviews from critics , multiple award nominations  ,  and  रै   चूंकि  enjoyed  a   उल्लेखनीय  life  on  cable television ,  vhs  , DVD , and Blu-ray .
It was included in the American  फिल्मी  Institute  's   100   सालो  ... 100 Movies 10th Anniversary Edition  .
IT management is the discipline  whereby   सब  of the technology resources of a firm  हैं  managed in accordance with  इसके  needs and priorities  .
ये  resources may include  ठोस   निवेश   जैसे  computer hardware  ,  software , data , networks and data  केन्द्र   सुविधाएं   ,  as well  as   the  staffs who are  नियुक्त  to maintain them  .
Managing  इस  responsibility within a company entails many of the basic  प्रबन्धन  functions , like budgeting , staffing , and organizing and controlling  ,  along with other aspects that  हैं  unique to technology ,  जैसे  change management , software design , network planning ,  तकनीक  support etc .
the  Penitentiary of  नई  Mexico Prison Riot  ,  which took place on February  2  and  3  , 1980 , in the state 's maximum security prison  दक्षिण   of  Santa Fe ,  थी   एक  of the most violent prison riots  in  the history of the American correctional system : 33 inmates  died  and more than 200 inmates were treated  लिये   चोटों   .
None of  the  12  अधिकारियों  taken hostage were killed , but  सात   यहूद   treated  for injuries caused by beatings and rapes .
This was the third major riot at  the  NM State Penitentiary  ,  the first occurring on 19 July 1922 and the second on 15  जून  1953 .
Author Roger Morris suggests the death toll may have been higher , as a number of bodies  यहूद  incinerated or dismembered during  the  course of  the   mayhem  .
`` Red  कार्डिनल  '' redirects  यहाँ   .
For the plant Erythrina herbacea , see Coral  सेम  .
The Northern Cardinal ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a  उत्तर   अमरीकी  bird  in  the genus Cardinalis ; it is also known  colloquially  as the redbird or common cardinal  .
it  can  be  found in southern Canada  ,  through the eastern United States from  maine  to Texas and south through Mexico .
it  is found in woodlands  ,  gardens ,  shrublands  ,  और  swamps .
The  उत्तरी  Cardinal is a mid-sized songbird with a body length of 21  सेंटीमीटर   (   8.3   इंच  )  .
It has a  distinctive  crest  on  the head and  a  mask on the face which is black in the male and gray in the female .
The male is a vibrant  रेड  , while the female is a dull red-brown shade .
The Northern Cardinal  is  mainly granivorous , but  भी  feeds on  कीट  and fruit .
The male  behaves  territorially , marking out his territory with  सोंग  .
During  प्रेमालाप  , the male feeds seed to the  मादा  beak-to-beak .
a  clutch of  तीन   to  four eggs is laid  ,  and two to four clutches are  उत्पादित   प्रत्येक  year .
It was once prized as a pet , but  इसके   बिक्री  as cage  पक्षियों  is now banned in the United States by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918  .
Surface  runoff  ,  भी  called nonpoint  सोर्स  pollution , from a  फार्म  field in  आयोवा  during a rain storm .
Topsoil as well as farm fertilizers and  अन्य  potential pollutants run  बंद  unprotected farm fields when heavy rains occur .
Topsoil is  the   अपर  ,  outermost   परत   of  soil , usually the top to .
It  रै   the  highest concentration of organic matter and  microorganisms  and is where most of the Earth 's biological soil activity occurs  .
Musical cryptogram : `` Aschbeg '' set in Schoenberg 's Sechs kleine Klavierstücke  ,   op  . 19 ,  no  . 1 , m. 5 .
Note that the notes  do  not come  in   स्पेलिंग  order  लकिन  are all adjacent ( not separated by other notes ) .
Sechs kleine Klavierstücke , Op  .  19 (  or  Six Little Piano Pieces  )   is   a  set of  टुकड़े  for solo piano written by the Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg , published in 1913 .
McAfee , Inc. ( ) is an American global computer security software  कम्पनी  headquartered in Santa Clara  ,  California  ,  and the world 's  largest  dedicated security  प्रौद्योगिकी  company  .
as   of  February 28 , 2011  ,  McAfee is  a  wholly owned subsidiary of Intel .
McAfee 's  प्रतिस्पर्धी  in the antivirus  उद्योग  are  avira  ,  bitdefender  , BullGuard ,  f-secure  , Frisk , Kaspersky , Symantec , and  ट्रेंड  Micro to  नाम  a few  .
Saint Rita of  cascia  ( Born Margherita  lotti  1381 - May 22 , 1457 ) was an Italian Augustinian nun , widow and saint venerated in the Roman Catholic Church .
रीता  was married at an early age .
The marriage lasted for 18 years , during which she is remembered for her Christian values as a model wife and mother who made efforts to convert  उसके  husband from his abusive behavior .
Upon  the  murder of her husband by  another  feuding family , she sought to dissuade her sons from revenge .
वो  subsequently joined an  augustinian   जातियाँ  of  धार्मिक  sisters  ,   जहाँ   वो  was known for practicing mortification of the  flesh  ,  साथ  with  the  apparent efficacy of  उसके  prayers .
St. Rita is venerated due to various miracles attributed to her intercession , and is often portrayed  साथ  a bleeding wound  on  her forehead , which the Roman  कैथोलिक  Church claims to have been  a  partial  stigmata  .
The Roman Catholic Church ,  अंतर्गत  the pontificate of Pope Leo XIII officially canonized Rita on  may   24   ,  1900 ,  जबकि  her feast  दिन  is celebrated every May 22 .
In  अनेक  pious Catholic countries  ,  Rita is known to  be  a patroness for abused wives  और  mourning  महिलाओं   .
North America  is  a continent  wholly  within the Northern  गोलार्ध  and almost wholly within the Western Hemisphere  .
It is also considered a northern subcontinent of the Americas .
It is bordered to  the  north by the Arctic  समंदर   ,  to  the   ईस्ट  by the Atlantic Ocean , to the west and south  by  the Pacific Ocean , and to  the  southeast by South  अमेरिका  and the Caribbean Sea .
North America covers an area of about  24,709,000  square kilometers  (   9,540,000  square miles ) , about 4.8  %  of the planet 's surface or about 16.5  %  of its land area .
as  of July 2008 , its population  थी  estimated at nearly 529 million people  आरपार  23 independent states , representing about  7.5  % of  the  human population .
North America is the third-largest continent in area ,  following  Asia and Africa , and  the  fourth in population after Asia , Africa , and  यूरोपीय  .
The first people  to  live in North America  यहूद   paleoindians  who began to arrive  दौरान   the  last glacial period by crossing the Bering land bridge .
They differentiated into a number  of  diverse cultures  और  communities across the continent .
the  largest and most advanced Pre-Columbian  सभ्यताओं   in  North America were the  aztecs   in   कया  is now Mexico and the Mayans  in   सेंट्रल  America .
European  colonists  began to arrive  starting  in  the   16th  and 17th centuries  ,  wiping  आउट  large numbers of the  देशी   populations  and beginning an era of European  दबदबा  .
Jermaine Lamarr Cole ( born January 28 , 1985  )  , better known  by   उसके   स्टेज  name J. Cole , is  an  American hip-hop recording artist and record producer from Fayetteville , North  कैरोलिना  .
In 2009  ,   he  became the first artist  to  sign to Jay-Z 's  आरओसी   स्वदेश  label .
His  long-awaited  debut album ,  हकदार  Cole World  :   the  Sideline Story , was released on September 27 , 2011 .
The album debuted  at  number one  on   the  US Billboard 200 , Top R  &  B Albums and  शीर्ष  Rap Albums chart , selling more than 218,000  in   इसके  first  सप्ताह   .
He received  a  nomination for Best New Artist  at   the  54th Grammy Awards .
The two main characters of the series , Ratchet  (  right  )  and Clank ( left )  .
Ratchet & Clank is a series of platform video  खेल   .
The franchise was created and  विकसित  by Insomniac Games and  प्रकाशित  by Sony Computer Entertainment for  अनेक  different PlayStation consoles , such as PlayStation  2  and PlayStation 3 with  the   exclusion  of  आकार   matters  and  रहस्य   एजेंट  Clank , which were developed by High  प्रभाव  Games for the PlayStation Portable .
प्रत्येक  game in the series has been released for every console , as the  ip  is owned by Sony Computer  entertainment  .
an  animated  विशेषता   फिल्मी  adaptation produced by  rainmaker   entertainment  and Blockade Entertainment is scheduled for a theatrical release sometime in  2015   .
The games take  प्लेस  in a science fiction setting and follow the adventures of Ratchet ( an animalistic human-like character known  as   a   lombax  , who is a mechanic ) and  clank  ( a diminutive  ,  sentient  रोबोट  ) as they travel through the universe , saving it from evil forces  on  a regular basis .
The series is noted  लिये  the inclusion of  अनेक  exotic and unique ,  over   the  top weapons and devices  ,  a concept that Insomniac  खेल  also expanded into their other games .
A will  or  testament  is  a legal declaration by which a person , the testator , names one or more persons to  मैनेज  his/her estate  और   provides  for the  ट्रांसफ़र  of his property at  मौत  .
For the devolution of property not disposed of by  होगा  , see inheritance  और  intestacy .
In the  strictest  sense , a `` will '' has historically been limited to  रियल  property while `` testament '' applies only to dispositions of  निजी  property ( thus giving rise to the  लोकप्रिय   शीर्षक  of the document as ``  पिछला  Will and Testament ''  )  , though this distinction is seldom observed today .
A  होगा  may also create  a  testamentary trust that is effective only  बाद  the death of the testator  .
the  19.9  mw  Gemasolar solar plant  in  Spain features 15 hours of storage and can supply  शक्ति  24 hours a day .
Solar  उर्जा  ,  रौशन  light and heat from  the  sun ,  रै  been harnessed  by  humans since  प्राचीन  times using a range of ever-evolving  technologies  .
Solar energy technologies  शामिल  solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity  ,  solar architecture and  कृत्रिम  photosynthesis , which can  मेक  considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the  संसार  now faces  .
सौर  technologies  हैं  broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the  रास्ता   वे  capture ,  बदलें  and  वितरित  solar energy .
Active solar techniques include the use  of  photovoltaic panels and  सौर  thermal collectors to harness the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting  a  building to the Sun , selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light  dispersing  properties , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said  कि  `` the development of affordable , inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have  विशाल   longer-term  benefits .
It will increase  countries’   उर्जा  security through reliance on  an  indigenous , inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource  ,  enhance sustainability  ,  reduce pollution , lower  the   लागत  of mitigating  जलवायु  change , and  रखना  fossil fuel  कीमतें  lower than  वरना   .
ये  advantages  हैं   वैश्विक  .
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning investments ;  वे  must be  बुद्धिमानी  spent  और  need to be  widely  shared '' .
Sir Thomas More ( ; 7 February 14786 July 1535  )  , known to Roman  catholics  as Saint Thomas More  चूंकि  1935 , was  an  English lawyer ,  सोशल  philosopher ,  लेखक  , statesman , and noted Renaissance humanist .
he  was an important councillor to Henry VIII  of  England and was Lord Chancellor from October 1529 to 16 May 1532 .
He was canonized  by  Pope  पायस  XI in 1935 as one of the  जल्दी   शहीदो  of the schism that  अलग  the Church  of   इंग्लैण्ड  from Rome in the 16th century .
in  2000 , Pope John Paul  ii  declared him patron  of   कैथोलिक  statesmen and  राजनेता   .
More was an  प्रतिद्वन्दी  of the Protestant Reformation , in  particular  of Martin Luther and  विलियम  Tyndale .
However  ,  since  1980  ,  he  is also commemorated by the  गिरिजाघर   of  England  as  a reformation martyr .
More  coined   the  word `` utopia  ``  – a name he gave to the ideal and imaginary  द्वीप  nation , the political system  of  which he  वर्णित  in  यूटोपिया   ,  published in 1516 .
He  opposed  the King 's separation from the  रोमन  Catholic Church and refused to accept  उसे  as Supreme  सिर  of the  गिरिजाघर  of England , a title which  था  been  दिए   by  parliament through  the  Act  of  Supremacy of 1534 .
He was imprisoned in 1534 for  उसके  refusal to take  the  oath required by the First Succession Act , because the act  disparaged  Papal Authority and Henry’s  विवाह  to Catherine  of  Aragon .
in   1535  , he was tried for treason  ,  convicted on perjured testimony  ,  and beheaded .
More also helped to originate the phrase `` grasp  at   लोभी  '' to mean  ``  desperately trying even  व्यर्थ  things '' , in his Dialogue of Comfort Against  tribulation  .
intellectuals  and statesmen across Europe were stunned by  अधिक  's execution .
Erasmus saluted him as one `` whose soul  थी  more pure than any snow , whose  प्रतिभाशाली   थी  such that England never had and never again will have its like '' .
There was  a  more controversial side to More 's life , because he advocated  the  persecution and execution of Protestants who refused to  recant  their faith .
however  , the judgement of history  रै  been largely willing to forgive this  in   लाइट  of  the  times  he   जिया  in and  उसके   शहादत  in the  रोमन  Catholic cause  .
Two  सदियां  later Jonathan  स्विफ्ट   कहा  More was `` the  व्यक्ति  of the greatest virtue this  किंगडम   कभी  produced  ''  , a sentiment with which Samuel Johnson agreed .
इतिहासकार  Hugh Trevor-Roper said  in   1977   कि  More was  ``  the first great Englishman whom we feel that we know ,  the  most saintly of humanists  ,  the  सबसे  human of saints ,  the   सार्वभौमिक  man of our  कूल  northern renaissance .  ''
Captain Nemo  ,  also known as Prince  dakkar   ,  is a  fictional  character  invented  by the French science fiction author Jules  वर्न  .
Nemo  appears   in  two of Verne 's novels , Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea ( 1870 )  और  The Mysterious Island ( 1874 )  ,  and makes a cameo appearance in  वर्न   's  play Journey Through the Impossible  (  1882  )   .
Nemo , one  of  the most famous antiheroes in fiction ,  is  a mysterious  फिगर  .
The  बेटे  of an Indian Raja , he is a scientific genius who roams the depths  of  the  समुद्र  in his submarine  ,  the Nautilus ,  जिससे  was built on a  उजाड़  island  .
Nemo tries to  प्रोजेक्ट  a stern , controlled confidence , but  he  is driven  by  a thirst  लिये  vengeance and a hatred of imperialism ( particularly the British Empire  )   .
He is also wracked by remorse over the deaths of  उसके  crew members and  भी  by the  मौतों  of enemy sailors .
Nemo has appeared in  विभिन्न  adaptations of  वर्न   's  novels  ,  including films  ,   जहाँ  he has  महरूम   portrayed  by a number of  अलग  actors  .
He has  furthermore  been adopted by  अन्य  authors for inclusion in their  novels  , most notably in Alan Moore 's The League  of  Extraordinary Gentlemen and Philip José Farmer 's The Other Log of Phileas  fogg  .
Listed below  हैं   the  Major League  बेसबॉल  teams with the  बेहतरीन  season won-lost  रिकॉर्ड   in  history , as determined by  जीतना  percentage ( .700 or better ) , minimum 120  खेल   निभाई  .
Acoustic  coupler  modem
A modem  (  modulator-demodulator  )  is a device that modulates an analog  वाहक  signal to encode digital information , and also demodulates such a carrier signal to decode the transmitted information  .
The goal is to produce a signal that can be  transmitted   easily  and decoded to reproduce the  असली   डिजिटल  data .
Modems can be used over any means of transmitting analog signals , from light emitting diodes to radio .
the  most familiar example is a voice band modem that turns the  डिजिटल  data of a personal computer into modulated  विद्युत  signals in the voice  आवृत्ति  range  of  a telephone  चैनल  .
These signals can be transmitted over telephone lines  और  demodulated by another modem at the receiver side  to   रिकवर  the digital  आंकड़ा  .
Modems are generally classified by the  राशि  of data they  can  send  in  a given unit of  समय  , usually expressed in  बिट्स  per second (  bit/s   ,   or  bps  )  , or bytes per second (  b/s  ) .
Modems  can  alternatively be classified  by  their symbol rate , measured in baud .
The  baud  unit denotes symbols per second , or the number of times per second the modem  भेजना  a new signal  .
For example , the ITU V.21 standard used  ऑडियो  frequency shift keying  साथ  two  संभावित  frequencies  सम्बन्धित  to two distinct symbols ( or  एक  bit per  प्रतीक   )   ,  to  carry  300 bits  प्रति   दूसरी  using 300  baud  .
By contrast , the  असली  ITU V.22 standard ,  जिससे   थी  able to transmit and receive four distinct  प्रतीकों   (   दो  bits per symbol ) , handled 1,200  bit/s   by  sending 600  प्रतीकों  per second  (  600 baud ) using  phase  shift keying .
The Declaration of Independence is  a  statement adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4 , 1776 ,  जिससे  announced that the thirteen American colonies , then at war with Great Britain , regarded themselves as independent  राज्य  , and no  longer  a part of  the  British Empire .
Instead  वे  now formed a new nation—the  संयुक्त  States of America .
जॉन   एडम्स  was  a  leader in pushing  लिये   स्वतंत्रता  , which  थी   unanimously  approved on July 2 .
a  committee had already drafted  the  formal declaration , to be ready when  कॉंग्रेस  voted  on  independence .
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to compose  the  original draft of the document , which congress  होता  edit  to  produce  the  final  संस्करण  .
The Declaration was ultimately  a  formal explanation  of  why Congress had  voted  on July 2 to declare independence from Great Britain , more than a year after the  outbreak  of the American Revolutionary War .
The national birthday  ,  the Independence Day is celebrated on July 4 , although Adams wanted July 2  .
After  ratifying   the   टेक्स्ट  on July 4 , Congress issued the  घोषणा  of Independence  in  several  फ़ॉर्म  .
It was initially published as  the  printed Dunlap broadside that was widely distributed and read to  the  public .
The most famous version of the  घोषणा  , a  हस्ताक्षरित  copy that is popularly  regarded  as  the  Declaration of Independence , is displayed at  the  National Archives in Washington ,  d.c  .
Although the wording  of  the Declaration was approved on  जुलाई  4 , the date  of  its signing was August 2 .
the  original July  4   संयुक्त  States Declaration of Independence  पाण्डुलिपि   थी  lost while all other copies  have  been derived from this original document  .
The sources and interpretation of the Declaration have been  the   विषय  of much scholarly inquiry .
The  घोषणा  justified the independence  of  the United States by listing colonial grievances against  किंग  George III ,  और  by asserting certain natural and legal rights , including  a  right of revolution .
Having  परोसा  its original purpose in announcing independence , the text  of  the Declaration was  initially  ignored  बाद  the American Revolution .
Since then , it has come to be considered a  प्रमुख  statement on human rights , particularly its  दूसरी  sentence:
We hold these truths  to  be  self-evident  , that all men are  निर्मित   बराबर  , that they  हैं  endowed by their Creator with certain  unalienable  Rights  ,  that among these are Life  ,   स्वतंत्रता  and the  pursuit  of Happiness  .
इस  has  महरूम   पुकारा  ``  एक  of the best-known sentences in  the   अंग्रेज़ी  language '' , containing `` the most potent and consequential words in American history .  ''
The passage  आए  to represent a  moral  standard to which the United States  चाहिए  strive  .
This view was  notably  promoted by Abraham  lincoln  , who considered  the  Declaration to be the foundation of his political  दर्शनशास्त्र  , and argued that the Declaration is  a  statement of  सिद्धान्त  through which the  संयुक्त  States Constitution should be interpreted .
It has inspired work for the rights of  अधिकारहीन   लोगों  throughout the world .
The  अर्थव्यवस्था   of  Greenland can be characterized as small ,  मिश्रित   और  vulnerable .
The present economy consists of a big  पब्लिक  sector and comprehensive foreign  व्यापार  ,  जिससे  has resulted in an economy with periods  of  strong  विकास  , considerable  महंगाई  , unemployment  समस्याएं  and  चरम  dependence  on  capital inflow from Denmark and  उपयोग  of outside , mainly Danish , skilled labor .
GDP per capita  is  similar to the average European economies but  the  economy is critically dependent  upon  substantial  support  from the Danish government , which supplies about half the revenues  of  the home rule government who  in  turn employ about 8,000  greenlanders  out of a labor force of 40,156 ( Jan. 2012 )  .
बेरोजगारी  nonetheless  remains  high , with the rest of the economy dependent upon demand for exports  of  shrimp and fish .
Hydrogen is a  रासायनिक  element with  प्रतीक  H and atomic number 1  .
With an atomic weight of ( for hydrogen-1 ) , hydrogen is the  lightest   तत्व  and its monatomic form (  h1  ) is the most abundant chemical  पदार्थ  ,  constituting  roughly 75 % of the  ब्रह्मांड  's  baryonic  mass  .
non-   remnant  stars are mainly composed of hydrogen in its  प्लाज्मा  state  .
At standard temperature and pressure , hydrogen is a colorless , odorless ,  tasteless  ,  non-toxic  , nonmetallic , highly combustible  diatomic  gas with the molecular  सूत्र  H2  .
Most of the hydrogen on  धरती  is in molecules such as  जल  and organic compounds  क्युकी  hydrogen  readily  forms  covalent  compounds  साथ  most  non-metallic  elements .
Hydrogen plays  a  particularly  महत्वपूर्ण  role  in  acid-base chemistry with many reactions exchanging protons between soluble molecules  .
In ionic compounds  ,  it can take a negative charge ( an anion known as a hydride  और  written  as  H−  )  , or  as  a positively charged species H+ .
The latter  cation  is written as  हालांकि  composed of a  bare  proton , but  in  reality , hydrogen cations in ionic  यौगिकों  always occur as more complex species  .
The most common  समस्थानिक   of   हाइड्रोजन  is protium ( name  rarely  used , symbol 1H  )  with a single proton and no neutrons .
As the  सरलतम  atom known ,  the  hydrogen atom has been of theoretical use  .
For  उदाहरण   ,  as  the  only  न्यूट्रल  atom with an  analytic  solution to the Schrödinger equation  ,  the study of the  energetics  and bonding  of  the hydrogen atom played a key role in the development of quantum mechanics .
Hydrogen  गैस  was first artificially  उत्पादित  in the early 16th century ,  via  the  mixing   of  metals  साथ   acids  .
In 1766–81 , Henry Cavendish was the first to recognize that hydrogen gas was a discrete substance  ,  and that it produces water when burned  ,   a  property which later  दिया  it its name  :   in  Greek  ,  hydrogen  अर्थात्  `` water-former '' .
औद्योगिक  production  is  mainly  इससे  the steam reforming of natural gas  ,   और   कम   प्रायः   इससे  more energy-intensive hydrogen production  विधि   जैसे  the electrolysis of water .
Most hydrogen is  employed  near its production site , with the two  largest  uses  होने  fossil fuel processing  (  e.g. ,  hydrocracking  )  और  ammonia production , mostly  लिये  the fertilizer market .
Hydrogen is a concern in metallurgy as it can embrittle  अनेक  metals  ,  complicating the  डिज़ाइन  of pipelines and  भंडार  tanks .
Unstoppable is a 2010 American  कार्रवाई  thriller film directed by Tony Scott  ,   लिखा   by   चिह्नित  Bomback , and starring Denzel Washington and  क्रिस   पाइन  .
The film  ,   loosely  based  on  the real-life CSX 8888 incident ,  tells   the  story of a runaway freight train ,  और  the two  मेन  ( Washington  और  Pine ) who  मैनेज  to  रोकें  it  .
It  थी   स्कॉट  's final  विशेषता  film  पहले   उसके  death in 2012  .
The film was released in the United States and Canada on November 12  ,  2010 , and in  the  United Kingdom on November 24  ,  2010  .
It received mostly favorable reviews from film  आलोचकों   ;  it garnered  a  ``  certified   भैस  '' rating on Rotten Tomatoes based upon aggregated  समीक्षाएँ  and  a  rating of ``  generally   अनुकूल  reviews ''  at   metacritic  .
The film  थी   मनोनीत   लिये  an Academy Award  लिये  Best Sound Editing  at   the  83rd Academy Awards  ,  but lost  to   inception  .
In photography ,  bracketing  is  the  general technique of taking several shots of the same subject using different camera settings  .
Bracketing is useful and often recommended in situations  कि  make it difficult to obtain a satisfactory image with a single shot , especially when a small variation  in  exposure parameters has a comparatively large  प्रभाव  on  the  resulting image .
Autobracketing is  स्वचालित  bracketing  by  using  a  setting on the camera to take  अनेक  bracketed  गोलियाँ  (  in  contrast  to  the  फ़ोटोग्राफ़र  altering the  जमावट  by hand between each shot  )  .
दिए  the time  it   takes  to accomplish multiple shots , it is typically , but not always  ,  used for static subjects .
Insulated glazing ( IG )  ,  more commonly known as double glazing ( or double-pane  ,  and increasingly  ट्रिपल  glazing/pane ) are double or triple glass window panes separated by an air or other gas filled space to reduce heat transfer  आरपार  a part  of  the building envelope .
Insulated Glass Units  हैं  manufactured with glass in range of  मोटाई  from 3 mm to  10   mm  or more in special applications .
laminated  or tempered glass may also be used as part of the construction  .
Most units are manufactured with the  वही  thickness  of  glass used  on   दोनो  panes but special applications  ऐसे  as acoustic attenuation or  सुरक्षा   may   आवश्यकता  wide ranges  of  thicknesses to be incorporated in the same unit  .
A sectioned  आरेख   of  a fixed Insulated Glazed Unit ( IGU  )  , indicating the  क्रमांकन  convention used  in   इस   आलेख  .
Surface  #  1 is  facing  outside , Surface #  2  is the  अंदर  surface of  the  exterior  फलक   ,   सतह   #  3 is the outside  सतह  of the interior pane ,  और  Surface # 4 is the  अंदर  surface of  आंतरिक  pane  .
The window frame is  labelled  # 5 , a  spacer  is  indicated  as # 6 ,  seals  are shown in  रेड   (  # 7 ) ,  the  internal reveal is on the right hand side  (  # 8 ) and the  exterior  windowsill  on  the left  (  #  9  )
To reduce  shear  effects on  the  sealed unit (  a  major cause  of  premature failure ) , manufacturers use a  नियम   of   अंगूठा  that  permits  a  अंतर  of 1 mm  between  the thickness of the panes of  कांच  used in the unit and still maintain the warranty for the unit .
For  उदाहरण  ,  a  unit may be ordered with a 4 mm pane on the exterior and a 3 mm  फलक  on the interior .
These variations are  अनुमत  for architectural  और  cost reasons .
Other combinations can be specified  और  produced but the manufacturer  may  reserve the  सही  to limit  the  term of the  वारंटी  or  इंकार  to warranty the  ईकाई  altogether  .
For ease of description the surfaces  of  a double paned unit are named according  to  the following convention : Surface # 1 ( facing outside  )  ,  सतह  # 2  (  inside of outside pane ) , Surface # 3 ( outside of inside pane ) and  सतह  # 4  (  inside surface of inside  फलक   )  .
Applying the corresponding nomenclature  लिये  triple paned units  परिणाम   in   सतहों  # 1  through  # 6  .
the  performance of insulating glazing can be modified through  the  use  of   the  following:
a   ठेठ  installation of insulated  glazing   खिड़कियाँ  with uPVC window frames .
Selenium is a chemical element with symbol Se and atomic number 34 .
It is a nonmetal  साथ  properties that are  इंटरमीडिएट  between those of its periodic table  column-adjacent  chalcogen elements sulfur  और  tellurium .
It  rarely   occurs  in its elemental state  in  nature , or as pure ore compounds .
Selenium  (  Greek σελήνη selene meaning ``  चंद्रमा  ''  )  was discovered in 1817  by  Jöns Jacob Berzelius  ,   जो  noted the  समानता  of the  नई  element to  the  previously-known tellurium ( named for the Earth )  .
सेलेनियम   is  found impurely in metal sulfide ores  ,  where it  partially  replaces  the  sulfur .
Commercially , selenium is produced as a byproduct  in   the  refining  of  these  ores   ,  most often during copper  उत्पादन  .
खनिज  that are pure selenide or selenate compounds are known , but  हैं  rare .
The chief  वाणिज्यिक   उपयोग  for selenium today are in glassmaking and in pigments .
Selenium is a  सेमीकंडक्टर  and  is  used in photocells .
Uses in  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स   ,   एकबार  important ,  have  been mostly  supplanted  by  सिलिकॉन  semiconductor devices .
Selenium continues to  be  used in a few types of DC power surge protectors and one type  of  fluorescent quantum dot .
सेलेनियम  salts are toxic in large amounts , but trace amounts are necessary for cellular  फलन  in  अनेक  organisms  ,  including all  पशु  .
सेलेनियम  is a component of the antioxidant enzymes  glutathione  peroxidase and thioredoxin  reductase  ( which indirectly reduce certain oxidized molecules in animals and some plants ) .
It is also  मिला  in three deiodinase enzymes , which  बदलें   एक  thyroid hormone to another .
सेलेनियम  requirements in plants  differ  by species , with some plants requiring relatively large amounts , and  अन्य  apparently requiring none .
The United  राज्य  presidential  चुनाव  of 2008 was the 56th quadrennial presidential election .
it  was held on Tuesday , November 4 , 2008 .
Democrat Barack Obama  ,  then the junior  सीनेटर  from Illinois , defeated Republican John McCain  ,  the senior Senator from Arizona .
As  the  campaign progressed , the War  in  Iraq and outgoing Republican President George W.  बुश  had  become  increasingly unpopular ,  और   the  major-party candidates ran  on  a platform of change and reform .
Domestic  नीति  and the economy eventually emerged  as  the main themes in  the  last few months of the election campaign after the  onset  of the  worst  recession since  the  1930s .
ओबामा  would go  on  to  जीत  a decisive victory over McCain in both the  चुनावी  and popular vote .
Obama received  the   सबसे   मत  for a presidential candidate in American history  ,  and  जीती  the popular and  चुनावी  vote  by  the largest margin in 12 years  ,  as well as the  largest  percentage of the popular vote for a Democrat in  nearly   a  half-century .
This was the first U.S.  अध्यक्षीय  election in which an African American was elected , having also been  the  first  in  which  an  African American won  the  nomination of either  प्रमुख  party .
इस   चुनाव   थी  also notable for  होने  the first time  in  U.S. history that both major party candidates were  बैठे  U.S . Senators , only  the  third time ( after 1920 and 1960 ) that any sitting U.S . Senator was elected president , and only  the  second time that the winning President  और   वाइस  President  (  Obama and Biden  )   यहूद  both sitting U.S . Senators .
This was also the first election since  1952  in which neither of the major  पार्टियों  '  नामांकित   थी  the incumbent President or  वाइस  President .
The  sovereign  Prince  or  Princess  of  Monaco  is  the reigning monarch and head of state of the Principality of  मोनाको   .
All princes or  राजकुमारियों   have  officially taken the name of  the  House of Grimaldi , but have belonged to various other houses  (  Goyon de Matignon , Polignac ) in  पुरूष  line .
The reigning Prince is Albert II .
Visualization of fragmentation  और   तब   of  defragmentation
in  the  मेंटेनेंस  of  संचिका  systems  ,   defragmentation  is a process that  reduces  the amount of fragmentation .
It does this by  physically   आयोजन   the   सामग्री  of the mass storage device used  to   स्टोर   फाइलें  into the smallest number of contiguous regions (  fragments  ) .
It also attempts to create larger regions of free space using compaction to impede the return of fragmentation .
Some defragmentation utilities try to keep smaller files within a single directory together , as  वे  are  प्रायः   पहुँचा   in  sequence .
Defragmentation is advantageous and relevant to file  प्रणालियों  on electromechanical disk  ड्राइव  .
The movement of  the  hard drive  's  read/write heads over different areas of the disk when accessing fragmented files is slower , compared to accessing  the   संपूर्ण  contents of a non-fragmented  संचिका  sequentially without  चलती  the read/write heads to seek other fragments .
A service-level agreement ( SLA )  is   a   भाग  of a service contract where a service is formally defined .
In practice , the term  sla  is  sometimes  used to refer  to  the  contracted  delivery time ( of  the   सेवा  or  प्रदर्शन  ) .
As  an  example , internet  सेवा   प्रदाताओं  will  commonly  include service level agreements within the terms of their contracts with  ग्राहक  to define the  स्तर  ( s ) of  सेवा  being sold in plain language terms .
In this case the  sla  will typically have a technical definition in terms  of  mean time between  असफलताओं  ( MTBF ) , mean  समय   to  repair or mean time  to  recovery  (  MTTR ) ; various data rates  ;  throughput ; jitter ; or similar measurable details .
Union Station is a former shopping mall in Union City  ,  Georgia  ,  in southwest  मैट्रो  Atlanta adjacent to Interstate 85 .
After  नई  ownership  और  renovations in 2006 , the  नाम  was  बदला   इससे  Shannon Southpark Mall  in  2007 to  संघ  Station Mall .
A previous renovation  थी  done in  the  late  1990s  .
The mall has  महरूम  closed since November  2010  .
इस  map shows the  संलग्न  United  राज्य  and ,  in  insets at the lower left ,  the   दो  states that  हैं   नहीं  contiguous  .
the  contiguous  संयुक्त  States  हैं  the 48 adjoining U.S. states  on  the continent of North  अमेरिका  that are  दक्षिण  of Canada and north of Mexico  ,  plus the District  of  Columbia .
The term excludes the  राज्य  of  अलास्का  and Hawaii  ,   और  all off-shore U.S. territories and possessions , such as Puerto Rico .
Together ,  the   48  contiguous states and D.C. occupy  a  combined  क्षेत्रफल   of   ,  which is 1.58 % of the total surface area  of  the Earth .
Of this , is land , composing  83.65   %  of U.S. land area .
Officially  ,   is  water area , composing 62.66 % of the  स्वदेश  's water area .
The  2010  census population was  306,675,006  ,  composing  99.33 % of the nation  's   जनसांख्यिकी  ,  और  a density of  103.639  inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ) , compared to  87.264/sq  mi  (  33.692/km2 ) for  the  nation as a whole .
`` Why '' is the title  of   a   सोंग  recorded by  अमरीकी  country band Rascal Flatts .
It  is   the  third  सिंगल   इससे   उनके  sixth studio album ,  अजेय  .
It was released to radio stations on  सितंबर   29  ,  2009  and debuted at # 44 on the U.S  .  Billboard US Billboard Hot Country Songs chart for the week  of  October 10 ,  2009  .
It was written  by  Rob Mathes and  एलन   shamblin  .
Utilization  प्रबन्धन  is the evaluation of  the  appropriateness , medical need and efficiency of  स्वास्थ्य  care  सेवाएं  procedures and facilities according to established  मापदण्ड  or guidelines  और  under the provisions of an applicable  स्वास्थ्य   लाभ  plan  .
Typically it includes  नई  activities or  निर्णय   आधारित  upon the analysis of a case .
Utilization management  describes  proactive procedures ,  सहित   निर्वहन   नियोजन  , concurrent planning , pre-certification and clinical case  appeals  .
It also covers proactive processes  ,  such as concurrent clinical reviews and peer reviews , as well as appeals  introduced  by the provider , payer or patient .
As  pre-certification  and concurrent review of cases grew , utilization management spun out of utilization review .
जबकि  not synonymous , health care professionals tend to use  the  terms as interchangeable .
The difference is utilization  प्रबन्धन   is  and intends  to  manage health care cases efficiently and cost  effectively  before  और  during  स्वास्थ्य  care administration .
Utilization review  is  more considering whether  स्वास्थ्य  care  थी  appropriately  लागू   बाद  it was administered .
There are four basic techniques  in  utilization management:
Demand Management
Utilization Review
Case  प्रबन्धन
बीमारी  Management
The Outsiders is a  coming-of-age   अनोखा  by  S.  E.  hinton  , first published in 1967 by Viking Press .
Hinton was 15 when she started writing the novel , but did  सबसे  of the work when she  थी  sixteen and a junior in high school .
hinton  was  18  when the  किताब  was published .
The book  फ़ॉलो  two rival  समूह  ,  the  Greasers and the Socs  (  pronounced by the author  as  , short for Socials  )   ,  who are divided by their socioeconomic  औकात  .
the  book takes place in Tulsa , Oklahoma , in  1965   ,  but it is never stated in  the  book .
a  film  अनुकूलन  was  उत्पादित  in 1983 , and a little-known  short-lived  television series appeared in  1990  , picking up where the movie left off .
The  संयुक्त  States House  of  Representatives is one  of  the two houses  of  the United States Congress  (  a bicameral legislature )  .
It  is  frequently referred to as the House .
the   अन्य  house  is   the  Senate .
The composition and powers of the House  हैं  established  in   आलेख  One of the United States Constitution .
The major  शक्ति  of the House is  to  pass federal legislation that affects the  संपूर्ण   देश  although its bills must also be passed by  the  Senate and  further  agreed to by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless both  the   हाउस  and Senate re-pass the legislation  साथ  a two-thirds majority  in  each chamber  )  .
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue  बिल्स  , to impeach officials  ,   और  to  elect  the U.S. President in  मामला  there is no majority in the Electoral College .
Each  u.S.  state is represented in the  हाउस   in   proportion  to its population but is entitled to  at   तनिक  one representative .
The most  populous   राज्य  ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ,  currently has 53 representatives .
The total number of  मतदान  representatives is fixed by law at 435  .
Each representative serves for a two-year term .
The  स्पीकर  of the United States House  of  Representatives , who presides over the  कक्ष  , is  निर्वाचित  by the members  of   the  House  ,  and is  इसलिए  traditionally the  नेता  of the House  लोकतांत्रिक   caucus  or the  हाउस  Republican  सम्मेलन  , whichever party has more voting members .
The House meets in  the  south wing of the  संयुक्त  States Capitol .
A  सप्लाई  chain is actually a complex and dynamic  सप्लाई   और  demand network .
( cf . Wieland/Wallenburg , 2011 )
A supply chain is a system  of   संगठन  ,  लोगों  , activities , information , and resources  शामिल  in moving a product or service  इससे  supplier to customer .
Supply chain activities transform natural  संसाधन  , raw materials , and components into a finished product that is delivered to  the  end  ग्राहक  .
in  sophisticated supply chain systems , used products may re-enter the supply chain at any point where  अवशेष   मान  is recyclable  .
Supply  जंजीरों  link value chains  .
``  Purple Haze '' is a  सोंग   लिखा  and recorded  by  Jimi Hendrix  in  1967 , released as the second single  by  The  जिमि  Hendrix  अनुभव  in both the  संयुक्त  Kingdom and the United States .
It later appeared  on  the American  संस्करण  of  the  band 's 1967 album  हैं  You Experienced .
`` Purple  haze  ''  रै   become  one of the  ``  archetypical psychedelic drug songs of the sixties '' .
``  Purple Haze 's ''  गिटार  virtuosic techniques would  be  emulated by many  मेटल  guitarists .
a   बंद  up picture of a rhinoceros skin .
Skin is the soft outer  covering  of vertebrates .
अन्य   एनिमल   छतरियाँ  such as the arthropod exoskeleton  have  different developmental origin , structure and chemical  संयोजन  .
The  क्रियाशील   cutaneous   अर्थात्  `` of the skin '' ( from Latin cutis , skin ) .
in   स्तनधारियों  , the skin is the largest  अंग   of  the integumentary system made up of multiple layers of ectodermal tissue , and guards the underlying muscles  ,  bones  ,  ligaments and internal organs .
Skin of  a  different  प्रकृति  exists in  amphibians  , reptiles , and birds .
All mammals  have  some hair on their skin  ,   भी  marine mammals which appear to be hairless .
the  skin interfaces  साथ  the environment and is the first line of defense from  बाह्य  factors .
For example , the skin  plays  a key role in protecting the body against pathogens and excessive water loss  .
इसके  other functions are insulation ,  तापमान   विनियमन  , sensation , and the production of vitamin D folates .
Severely damaged skin may heal by  forming  scar tissue .
इस  is sometimes discoloured and depigmented .
the   मोटाई  of skin also varies  इससे  location to location  on  an  सजीव  .
in   इंसानो  for  उदाहरण  , the skin located  अंतर्गत  the eyes and  around   the  eyelids is the thinnest  स्किन  in the body at  0.5  mm thick ,  और  is one of  the  first  क्षेत्रों  to show signs of aging such  as   ``  crows feet '' and wrinkles .
The skin on  the  palms and the soles of the feet  is  4 mm thick and the thickest skin in the body .
Fur  is  dense hair .
Primarily , fur augments the  इन्सुलेशन  the skin provides but  can  also  serve   as  a secondary sexual characteristic  or  as camouflage .
On some  पशु   ,  the skin is very hard and  मोटा  , and can be  processed  to create leather  .
Reptiles and fish have  मुश्किल  protective scales on their  स्किन  for protection ,  और  birds have  मुश्किल  feathers ,  सब  made of tough β- keratins .
उभयचर  skin is not a strong barrier to passage of chemicals and is often subject to osmosis and diffusive forces .
लिये   उदाहरण  , a  मेंढक  sitting in an anesthetic solution would be  sedated  quickly , as the chemical diffuses through its skin .
थामस  Scott
The Rev . Thomas Scott (  1747-1821  ) was  an  influential preacher and author  जो  is principally  ज्ञात  for his best-selling work A Commentary On The  पूरे  Bible and The Force of Truth ,  और  as one of the founders of the Church Missionary Society  .
डेनियल  Radcliffe  ,  who portrays Harry Potter  ,  has been the icon of the film  श्रेणी   चूंकि   the  release of the first film in 2001  .
Some of the most renowned actors  of   the  United Kingdom and Ireland have voiced or portrayed  वर्ण  appearing  in  the Harry Potter film series based on the book series by J. K. Rowling  .
Daniel Radcliffe , Rupert Grint and Emma Watson have played Harry Potter , Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger in all the films .
When they were cast only  radcliffe  had previously acted in a  फिल्मी  .
Complementing them on  स्क्रीन  are such actors as Helena Bonham  कार्टर  , Jim Broadbent ,  जॉन  Cleese , Robbie Coltrane , Warwick Davis ,  ralph  Fiennes , Michael Gambon  ,  Brendan Gleeson , Richard Griffiths , Richard Harris ,  जॉन  Hurt  ,  Jason Isaacs  ,  Miriam Margolyes ,  हेलेन  McCrory , Gary Oldman , Alan  rickman  ,  फिओना   शॉ  , Maggie  स्मिथ  , Timothy Spall  ,   imelda  Staunton , David Thewlis  ,  Emma Thompson ,  और  Julie  walters  , among others .
Thirteen actors have appeared  as  the same  अक्षर  in all eight films of the franchise .
Some well-known British actors who have not appeared in  the  series  ,  are asked  in  jest why they have not  महरूम  cast .
जब  David Yates was directing  the   पांचवां   फिल्मी   ,  Bill Nighy , who had previously collaborated with Yates on three  of  his television projects ,  कहा  that he  joked  with Yates  कि  maybe now he would n't  be  the only actor in England  जो  had n't been in Harry Potter .
`` But nobody called '' ,  nighy  added  .
But in 2009 ,  येट्स  cast Nighy as  मंत्री  of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour  in  Deathly Hallows .
Nighy said , ``  i   am  no longer the only  अंग्रेज़ी  actor  नहीं  to be  in  Harry Potter  और  I  am   बहुत  pleased . ''
Jude Law has quipped , `` Nobody 's asked me  .
I was a bit too old for Harry  ''  .
When a reporter compared potions professor Horace  slughorn  's obsession with famous  names  to the  श्रेणी  ' connection to `` every notable British actor  ,  '' Jim  broadbent  , who  plays  Slughorn said , ``  खूब  ,  नहीं   प्रत्येक  actor gets invited .
I  जान  some who are still waiting  .  ''
With the exception  of  Chris Columbus , each  निदेशक  has had a cameo appearance in his respective film : Alfonso Cuarón appears as  a   जादूगर   पकड़कर   a  candle  दौरान  a  झाँकी  at The Three Broomsticks in Prisoner of Azkaban ; Mike Newell is heard briefly as the radio presenter in Frank Bryce 's  हाउस   in  Goblet  of  Fire ; and  दाउद  Yates  सुविधाएँ  as a wizard within a magical moving portrait in  अनुक्रम  of  the   फीनिक्स  .
Producer David Heyman also  makes  a cameo appearance  as  a wizard featured within a magical  चलती  portrait in the third film , Prisoner of  azkaban  .
J. K. Rowling gave a speech during the world premiere  of  the final film  in  the series— Harry Potter and the Deathly  hallows  Part 2 —on  7  July 2011  in  London , England .
वो  announced that she  could   never  have dreamt of the  प्रतिभाशाली  actors and actresses who have appeared in  सब  the Harry Potter movies .
Rowling also  घोषित  that there are seven Harry  कुम्हार   फिल्मी   श्रेणी  cast members , who she refers to as `` The Big Seven  ''  , they  हैं   डेनियल  Radcliffe , Rupert  grint  , Emma  वाटसन  , Tom  felton  , Matthew  लुईस   ,  Evanna Lynch and Bonnie Wright  .
The  सूची  below is sorted by  फिल्मी  and  अक्षर  , as some characters have been portrayed by multiple actors .
Key
(  v  ) indicates the actor or actress lent only his or  उसके  voice for his or her  फिल्मी  character
( y ) indicates  the  actor or actress portrayed the role in a  फ्लैशबैक  scene or when the character was young .
(  f  ) indicates the actor or actress did  नहीं  appear in any new footage for  the  film ;  फुटेज   इससे  an earlier film or  films   थी  used .
A light grey cell ( such  as   the  one in the `` Charity Burbage '' row in the `` Philosopher 's Stone ''  कालम  )  indicates   the  character was not in  the  film  अनुकूलन  .
A twelve-step program is a set of guiding principles  (  accepted by members as 'spiritual principles  ,   '  based on the approved literature ) outlining a course  of  action for recovery  इससे  , compulsion , or other behavioral problems .
originally  proposed by Alcoholics Anonymous (  aa  ) as a method of recovery from alcoholism , the Twelve Steps were first  प्रकाशित  in  the   किताब  Alcoholics Anonymous : The Story of How More  than  One Hundred Men Have Recovered from Alcoholism in 1939  .
The method  थी  then adapted and became the foundation of other twelve-step programs .
As summarized by  the  American Psychological Association , the process involves  the  following:
admitting that  एक   can  not control one  's  addiction or compulsion ;
recognizing a  उच्चतर  power that can  दे  strength ;
examining past errors  साथ  the help of a  प्रायोजक  (  अनुभवी   सदस्य   )   ;
making amends for these errors ;
learning to live  a   नई  life with a new code  of   बर्ताव  ;
helping others who suffer from the same addictions or compulsions .
Witness impeachment  ,  in  the  law of  प्रमाण  of the United States  ,  is the  प्रक्रम  of  कॉलिंग  into question the credibility  of  an individual who  is  testifying  in  a trial .
The Federal  नियम  of Evidence contain the rules governing impeachment in federal courts  .
Party leaders and whips of the United States  हाउस  of Representatives are elected by their respective  पार्टियों   in  a closed-door caucus by  रहस्य  ballot  और  are  भी  known as floor leaders  .
The U.S. House of Representatives does not  officially  use the  पद  `` Minority  नेता  '' although the media  अक्सर  do .
The House instead  उपयोग   the  terms `` Republican  नेता  '' or ``  लोकतांत्रिक  Leader  ''  depending on which party holds a minority  of  seats .
The  वर्तमान  House Majority Leader is Republican  eric  Cantor , while the current House Minority Leader is Democrat Nancy Pelosi .
The current House Majority Whip is Republican Kevin McCarthy  ,  while the current House Minority Whip is Democrat  steny  Hoyer .
Following the  outbreak  of World War I in 1914 , the German Army opened the  पश्चिमी  Front  by  first invading Luxembourg  और  Belgium ,  तब  gaining military control  of  important industrial regions in France .
The tide of the  अग्रिम  was dramatically turned  साथ  the  बैटल  of the Marne .
Following the race to the  समुद्र  ,  दोनो   पहलू  dug in along a meandering  लकीर  of fortified trenches ,  stretching  from the North Sea  to  the Swiss frontier with France .
This line remained essentially unchanged for  सबसे   of  the war .
Between 1915 and 1917 there  यहूद  several major  offensives  along this front .
The attacks employed massive artillery bombardments and massed infantry advances .
However , a  संयोजन  of entrenchments , machine gun nests  ,  barbed wire  ,  and artillery repeatedly inflicted severe  हताहत  on the attackers and counterattacking defenders .
As a result , no significant  अग्रिम   यहूद  made .
Among  the  most costly of  ये  offensives were the Battle  of  Verdun with  a  combined [ estimated ] 700,000 dead , the Battle  of   the  Somme with more than [ an estimated ] million  हताहत  , and  the  Battle of Passchendaele  साथ  roughly [  an  estimated ] 600,000 casualties  .
In  an  effort to break the deadlock , this front saw the introduction of new military  प्रौद्योगिकी  , including poison  गैस  , aircraft and  टैंक  .
But it was only after the adoption of  improved  tactics that some degree of mobility was restored  .
The German Spring Offensive of  1918  was made  संभावित  by  the   सन्धि  of Brest-Litovsk that marked the end of the conflict  on  the Eastern  सामने  .
Using the recently-introduced infiltration tactics ,  the  German armies advanced nearly to the  वेस्ट   ,  which  चिह्नित  the  deepest   अग्रिम  by  either  side since  1914  and very nearly  succeeded  in forcing a breakthrough .
In spite of the generally  stagnant  nature of  इस  front , this theater would prove decisive .
The inexorable advance of the Allied armies  दौरान  the second half of 1918 persuaded the  जर्मनी  commanders that defeat  थी  inevitable  ,  and the government  थी   मजबूर  to sue for conditions of an armistice .
The terms of peace were agreed upon with the  हस्ताक्षर  of the Treaty of Versailles  in  1919 .
The following is a list of recurring  और   नाबालिग  characters in the Disney  चैनल  Original Series The Suite Life of Zack & Cody .
These  वर्ण  were  regularly  rotated , often disappearing for  long   अवधि  during the series  .
The following list of characters has been sorted alphabetically , by first name  .
Some of the characters  था  no last name and most were commonly referred to  by  their first name  so  this appeared to be the most logical method .
In the case of Chef Paolo ,  जो  had no known first name , they  have   महरूम  listed by title .
The First Lady of the United States  (   flotus  ) is the hostess of the  श्वेत  House .
Because this position  is  traditionally filled by the wife of the President  of  the United  राज्य  , the title is most  प्रायः  applied to  the  wife of a sitting president .
The current First Lady is  मिशेल  Obama  .
After  उसके  husband Barack Obama  थी  re-elected on November  6  , 2012 ,  वो   is  scheduled  to  serve until January 20 , 2017 .
Septic shock is a medical condition as  a  result of severe infection and sepsis , though the microbe  may  be systemic  or  localized to a particular site .
it  can cause multiple organ dysfunction syndrome ( formerly known as  अनेक  organ failure )  और   मौत  .
Its  सबसे  common victims are children , immunocompromised  individuals  , and the elderly  ,   as   उनके  immune systems can not deal with  the   संक्रमण   as  effectively as  those  of healthy adults .
Frequently  ,  patients  कष्ट  from septic shock are cared for in  intensive  care units .
The mortality rate from septic shock is  लगभग  25–50  %  .
केविन  Brereton ( born  फ़रवरी  20 , 1972  )  , better known by his stage  नाम  k-os ( ; `` chaos '' ) , is a Canadian rapper , singer , songwriter  और  record  निर्माता  .
His given name  may   भी  be cited as Kheaven , a spelling he later adopted .
the  alias `` k-os '' , spelled with a lower case ``  k  '' ,  थी  intended to be  कम  aggressive than the pseudonyms of other rappers  जिनकी  names were all upper case , such as KRS-One .
It is an acronym for  ``  Knowledge of  स्वः   ,  '' although in a later interview he said that it originally  stood  for  ``  Kevin 's Original Sound  .  ''  k-os  ' music incorporates a  चौड़ी  variety of music genres , including rap  ,  funk , rock , and reggae .
the  lyrics frequently focus on promoting a `` positive message '' while  at   टाइम्स  expressing criticism of mainstream hip  हॉप  culture 's obsession with money ,  कीर्ति   और   glorification  of violence .
A musician as  खूब  as  a  producer ,  k-os  has written and  उत्पादित  nearly  प्रत्येक  part of all four of his albums .
k-os usually performs with a live band ,  कुछ  that is uncommon in the hip  हॉप  genre .
He sometimes plays guitar and keyboard both during live performances and in the  स्टुडियो   .
k-os received his first musical exposure with the single ``  musical  Essence '' , released in 1993 .
After the release of his second single `` Rise Like the Sun  ''  in  1996   ,  he withdrew from the industry because he was dissatisfied with his musical style .
He reappeared briefly  in  1999 and released his  डेब्यू  album Exit in 2002 .
the   एल्बम  received  धनात्मक  reviews but  बेची  relatively few copies  .
He released his second  एल्बम  Joyful Rebellion in 2004 , which received platinum status in  कनाडा  .
A third album ,  ,  was released in 2006 and  भी  went platinum .
His fourth  एल्बम  , Yes !
, was released  in  2009 .
His fifth album BLack on BLonde was  released  in 2013 .
The  आधिकारिक   2007  edition of the UCC .
Even  the  confidential rough drafts of  the   ucc  were saved and  प्रकाशित  as  a  10-volume set .
The Uniform Commercial Code  (  UCC or the Code  )  , first published in 1952 , is one of a number of uniform  अधिनियमों  that have been promulgated in conjunction with efforts to harmonize  the  law of  बिक्री   और  other  वाणिज्यिक  transactions in all 50 states  भीतर   the   संयुक्त  States of America .
multi-pitch  climbing is the ascent of climbing routes  साथ  one or more stops at  a   belay  station .
Each section of actual  चढ़ाई  between stops  at  the belay stations is  पुकारा  a pitch  .
The leader ascends the  पिच  , placing  गियर  and stopping  to   लंगर  themselves to the belay  स्टेशन  .
the  reason for the stops can be  संकल्पित  by choice ,  सम्मेलन  or  necessity  .
लिये  example:
The rope is too  छोटी  to do the entire  रूट   in  one pitch (  necessity  ) .
The leader has  चलाएं   आउट   of  protective gear ( necessity ) .
वहीँ   is  a  सुविधाजनक  protectable ledge  ,  or fixed bolts placed by  पिछला  climbers  ,   at  the location for a belay station (  सम्मेलन  ) .
The leader chooses to rest  or  exchange leads before  the  next section  of  the climb ( choice ) .
the  general  purpose  of these stops  is  to allow the second to  ascend   to   the  point of the lead climber while collecting the protective gear from the  रूट  in the course  of  the lead climber 's ascent .
At the belay station , the protective gear is collected , possibly exchanged  to  a new leader , and  the  leader of the next pitch ascends  the  route  .
A diagram showing an I Formation on offense and a 4-3 Formation on defense
In American football , each  टोली  has eleven players on the  फ़ील्ड   at   एक  time .
The specific  भूमिका  that a player takes on the field is called their position .
Under  the  modern rules of American football , teams are allowed unlimited subsititutions ,  कि  is teams may  बदलें  any  क्रमांक   of  players after any play .
इस  has  resulted   in   the  development of three `` platoons '' of players  ,  the offense ( the team with the ball  ,  who is trying to score  )  ,  the   रक्षा  ( the team trying to prevent  the  other  टोली  from scoring  ,  and  to  take the ball  इससे  them ) , and the special teams (  जो   खेल  in kicking situations ) .
Within those platoons  ,  various  विशिष्ट  positions exist depending on what the player 's main job is .
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA )  थी  enacted  into  law by the Congress of the United States as Title II of  the  Comprehensive Drug  गाली  Prevention  और  Control  अधिनियम  of 1970 .
The CSA  is  the federal U.S. drug  नीति  under which the manufacture , importation , possession , use and distribution  of  certain  substances  is regulated .
The Act  भी  served as the national implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs  .
The  विधान   निर्मित  five Schedules (  classifications  ) , with varying qualifications for  a  substance to be included in  प्रत्येक  .
Two federal agencies ,  the   ड्रग  Enforcement  प्रशासन  and the Food and Drug Administration ,  determine   जिससे  substances  हैं   added  to or removed from the various schedules ,  हालांकि  the statute passed by Congress created  the  initial listing , and Congress has sometimes scheduled other  substances  through legislation such as  the  Hillory J. Farias and Samantha  reid  Date-Rape Prevention Act  of   2000  , which  लगाई  gamma  hydroxybutyrate  in Schedule I . Classification decisions  हैं  required  to  be made on criteria including  संभावित  for abuse (  an  undefined term ) , currently accepted  चिकित्सा  use  in   उपचार  in the United States  ,  and international  treaties  .
The  वेन  Route 23 Transit Center is a  नई  Jersey Transit park-and-ride station  in   वेन   ,  New Jersey along the Montclair-Boonton Line that provides  बस   सेवा  to New York City and various  अन्य   अंक  in the area  as  well as Montclair-Boonton  लकीर  train  सेवा  to New York , Hoboken  ,  and intermediate points along  the  line between Hackettstown and Montclair  राज्य   विश्वविद्यालयों   .
It  is  located off of the southbound lanes of New Jersey Route 23  on  West Belt  सड़क  , near the interchange  जहाँ  Route 23 , Interstate  80  , and U.S. Route 46 meet , across from  the  Willowbrook  मॉल   .
The station  खोली  in January 2008  और  has 1,000  पार्किंग  spaces  .
नई   जर्सी  Transit intends for this combined  रेल  and bus station to  become  an `` interceptor station  ,  ''  कि   होगा  help relieve the habitual  जमघट  at the West Belt Road Interchange , where the three major highways meet .
in  addition ,  the  construction of the station was  meant  to also  आसानी  the congestion at what  थी  then Route 23 Park & Ride , a bus depot on Route 23 North that  रै  since been renamed Mother 's Park & Ride , and the Willowbrook Mall Park  &  Ride ; the now-Mother 's site  था  limited parking while NJT was having trouble with overfull parking  क्षेत्रों   at   willowbrook  .
The Wayne Township  बस  garage is located on the opposite side of Route 23 .
There has  महरूम  a proposal  to   निर्माण  a parking deck with another  हजार  spots  और   develop  the land at the station .
In addition to Montclair-Boonton  रेल  , the Transit Center is served  by   the   following  New Jersey Transit bus  लकीरs:
75 to Newark Penn Station and  बटलर
194 to Port Authority Bus Terminal and Butler/Newfoundland
198 to Port Authority  बस  Terminal and William Paterson University
324 to Port  प्राधिकार   और  Wayne  रूट  23
748  to Willowbrook  मॉल  and Paterson
The at sign @  is   भी  commonly called the at symbol , ampersat , apetail or commercial at in English—and  कम   commonly  a wide range of other terms  .
The fact that there is no single word  in  English for the symbol has prompted  कुछ  writers to  उपयोग  the French arobase or Spanish and Portuguese  arroba—or   to   सिक्का  new words such as asperand , ampersat—but none of these has achieved  चौड़ी  currency .
Originally  an   हिसाब  and commercial invoice abbreviation meaning ``  at  the  रेट  of '' (  e.g  . 7 widgets @ $ 2 = $ 14 ) ,  it  was not included on the  कुंजीपटल   of   the   earliest   commercially  successful typewriters , but was on at  तनिक  one 1889 model and the very  कामयाब  Underwood models from the ``  underwood  No . 5 '' in 1900  onward  .
It  is  now universally included on computer keyboards .
In recent years ,  इसके  meaning  रै  grown to  शामिल   the  sense of being `` located at , '' `` and ,  ''  or  ``  directed  at  '' , especially in  ईमेल  addresses and social media  ,  particularly Twitter  .
The  चिह्नित  is encoded at  .
The Catcher in the Rye is a 1951 novel by J.  D.  Salinger .
Originally published for adults  ,  it has since become  लोकप्रिय  with  adolescent  readers for its themes of  teenage  angst and alienation  .
it  has been translated into almost all  of  the world 's major languages .
Around 250,000 copies are sold  प्रत्येक  year with  कुल  sales of more than 65 million books .
The  अनोखा  's  समर्थक  and antihero , Holden Caulfield ,  रै  become an icon for teenage rebellion .
The novel was included on Times 2005 list of the 100  बेहतरीन  English-language novels  लिखा  since 1923 ,  और  it was named by  आधुनिक  Library and its readers  as  one  of  the 100 best English-language novels of  the  20th century .
it  has  महरूम  frequently challenged in the United States and  अन्य  countries for its liberal use  of  profanity  और   portrayal  of sexuality  .
It also deals with  जटिल  issues of identity , belonging , connection  ,  and alienation .
Skeletal muscles homo sapiens
This is a table of muscles  of  the human anatomy .
There are approximately  642  skeletal muscles within the  ठेठ   इंसान  ,  और  almost every muscle constitutes  एक  part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles , found on both sides , resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless  ,  the exact number is difficult to define because different  स्त्रोत  group  मांसपेशियां  differently  ,  e.g . regarding what is defined  as  different  भाग  of a single  मांसपेशी  or as  अनेक  muscles .
Examples  दायरा  from  640  to 850 .
the  muscles of the human body can  be  categorized into a number of groups  जिससे  include muscles relating  to  the head and neck , muscles of the torso or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs  ,  and muscles of  the  lower limbs .
The action refers to the action of  प्रत्येक  muscle  इससे   the  standard anatomical position .
in  other positions ,  अन्य  actions may be performed  .
Bad Girls Club  (  BGC ) is an American reality television series created by Jonathan Murray for the Oxygen television station  .
The show  centers   on  seven feisty  और  mischievous women with different backgrounds and personalities , who have a  क्रमांक  of psychological and behavioral problems .
They  हैं  introduced to the show off  उनके  pernicious behavior  और   accomplish  specific  लक्ष्य   .
The cast , deemed ``  ख़राब   लड़कियों   ''  ,  आनंद   a  luxurious lifestyle in  a  fine  mansion  for three months , during  जिससे  they must obey specified rules .
Their lives  अंदर  –  और   बाहर  – of the house are chronicled and  अंकित  by the production team .
The Bad Girls Club is broadcast in five  देशों  ( United States  ,  Netherlands ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , Hungary , and Sweden ) .
It has received  ऋणात्मक  reviews from  आलोचकों  , who believe  the  show promotes violence by adolescent  दर्शक   .
Furthermore ,  अनेक  cast members made controversial remarks which outraged many viewers .
the  format of  the   दिखाएँ  has changed from early seasons  .
If a `` bad  लड़की  '' breaks a rule ,  वो  is evicted from the show and , if it is early in  the  season  ,  replaced by a new `` bad girl '' .
There have been nine complete seasons  of  The Bad Girls Club , with the tenth season  फिलहाल   airing  .
The fourth season  था   the  highest ratings in the  दिखाएँ  's  इतिहास  , becoming its ``  भेदन  season  ''   .
There have  महरूम  three spin-offs of  the  Bad Girls  क्लबों  .
One of  उन्हें  , Love  खेल   :   ख़राब  Girls Need Love Too , where  पास्ट  cast members seek  सच्चा  love  ,  has gained high  दरजा  .
Oxygen  रै   भी  released a mobile game  ,  comic  स्ट्रिप   और  merchandise to  प्रचार  the show  .
Of the  92  contestants , Kerry Harvick ( of season  एक  ) was a successful country singer before the  दिखाएँ  .
Tanisha Thomas ( of season two ) later  hosted  Oxygen 's  oxygenlive   !
और  the subsequent seasons  of   प्रेम  Games : Bad  लड़कियों  Need Love  too   .
Thomas , who has been dubbed  the  `` godmother '' to all contestants  ,   रै  her  अपना   टेलीविज़न  documentary entitled  tanisha  Gets Married .
As of Season 8 she  's  been the host of the  पुनर्मिलन  specials  .
The Iowa Senate is the upper house  of  the  आयोवा  General Assembly  .
There are 50 seats in  the  Iowa Senate , representing 50 single-member districts across the  राज्य  with populations  of  approximately  60,927  per  constituency  , .
Each Senate district is composed of two House districts .
the  Senate meets at  the  Iowa State Capitol in Des  moines  .
Unlike the lower house , the Iowa House of Representatives ,  सीनेटरों  serve  four-year  terms , with half of the  सीनेट  staggered for re-election every two years .
There are no term  हद  for the Senate .
Mechanical repair
मेंटेनेंस  , repair , and operations  (  MRO ) or  मेंटेनेंस  , repair , and overhaul involves fixing any sort of mechanical ,  plumbing  or electrical device should it become  आउट  of order or  टूटा   (  known as repair , unscheduled or casualty  मेंटेनेंस  ) .
It also includes performing routine actions which keep the  यंत्र   in  working order ( known  as  scheduled maintenance ) or prevent  ट्रबल  from arising (  निवारक   मेंटेनेंस  ) .
MRO may be defined as , `` All actions which have the objective of retaining  or  restoring an item in or to  a  state  in  which it  can  perform its  जरूरी   फलन  .
The actions include  the  combination of all technical and corresponding  प्रशासनिक  , managerial  ,  and  पर्यवेक्षण  actions .  ''
MRO  परिचालन  can be categorised by whether the product remains the property of the customer  ,  i.e .  a  service  is  being  offered  , or whether  the  product is bought by the reprocessing organisation and sold to any  ग्राहक  wishing to make the  खरीदें  (  guadette  , 2002 ) .
In  the  former case it  may  be a backshop  आपरेशन  within a larger organisation or smaller operation .
The former of  ये  represents a  बंद  loop supply chain and usually has  the  scope of maintenance , repair  or   of  the  उत्पाद  .
The latter of the  categorisations  is an open loop supply chain and is typified  by  refurbishment and remanufacture .
The main characteristic of the closed loop system is that  the  demand for a  उत्पाद  is matched with the supply of a used product .
Neglecting asset write-offs and exceptional  क्रियाएँ   the  total population of the  उत्पाद  between the customer and the service provider remains  निरंतर  .
Prince William , Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis  ;  born 21 June 1982 )  ,  is the elder son of Charles ,  प्रिंस  of  वेल्स  ,  और  Diana , Princess of  वेल्स  , and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth  ii   और  Prince  फिलिप  , Duke of Edinburgh .
He is second in  the  line  of   उत्तराधिकार  ,  पीछे  his father , to  the  thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth  realms  : the United Kingdom ,  कनाडा   ,  Australia , New Zealand , Jamaica , Barbados  ,  The Bahamas , Grenada ,  पापुआ  New Guinea  ,   the  Solomon  आइलैंड्स  ,  तुवालू  ,  संत  Lucia  ,  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  ,  Belize , Antigua and  बारबूडा  , and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Prince William was educated at four schools in the  संयुक्त  Kingdom  और  obtained a degree from the University of St Andrews  .
he  spent parts  of  a  गैप   साल  in Chile ,  बेलीज़  , Tanzania , and Kenya where he has lived and holidayed several times .
Prince William has  भी   लिया   kiswahili  studies at universities in Kenya and Tanzania  .
He was commissioned  as  a Lieutenant in the Blues  और  Royals  रेजीमेंट  of the Household Cavalry —serving  साथ  his brother  प्रिंस  Harry —and , two years later , earned his wings by completing pilot  प्रशिक्षण  at Royal Air Force College  cranwell   .
In 2009 , he transferred to  the  Royal  एयर  Force  ,   थी  promoted to  उड़ान   लेफ्टिनेंट  and underwent helicopter flying  प्रशिक्षण  in  अनुक्रम  to become a full-time  पायलट   साथ  the Search  और   बचाव   फ़ोर्स  .
In 2010 ,  he  completed  उसके  general and special-to-type helicopter training and went  on   to   raf  Valley on No . 22 Squadron  performing  co-pilot duties on  फलक   a   समुद्र  King search and rescue  हेलीकाप्टर  .
Prince William married his longtime girlfriend , Catherine Middleton , on  29  April 2011 at Westminster Abbey .
Hours prior to his wedding , Prince William  थी   निर्मित  Duke of Cambridge , Earl of Strathearn ,  और  Baron Carrickfergus  .
DeAndre Cortez  रास्ता  ( born  जुलाई  28 , 1990 ) , better known  by   उसके   स्टेज  name Soulja Boy Tell 'Em  ,  or simply Soulja Boy  ,  is an American rapper  ,  record producer , actor , and entrepreneur .
In September  2007  , his single ``  crank  That ( Soulja Boy ) `` reached  क्रमांक   एक  on the  बिलबोर्ड  Hot 100  .
the  single was initially self-published on the internet , and it later became a  number-one  hit in the United States for seven non-consecutive  सप्ताह  starting in September  2007   .
On  अगस्त  17  रास्ता  was listed at # 18 on the Forbes list of Hip-Hop Cash  किंग्स  of  2010  earning $ 7 million for  कि  year .
रास्ता  has currently released three studio  एल्बम   और   एक   स्वतंत्र  album : his debut studio  एल्बम  Souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) was  certified  platinum by the RIAA .
however  , his next  दो  albums ,  isouljaboytellem  ( 2008  )   और  The DeAndre  रास्ता  ( 2010 ) did  नहीं  match  the  commercial success of his debut  ,  the latter only selling 100,000 copies  ,  despite the success of several singles across both albums ,  ऐसे   as  `` Kiss Me Thru the Phone  ``  and `` Turn My Swag  on   ``   (  iSouljaBoyTellem ) and `` Pretty Boy Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way )  .
This was  मुख्यतः  due to negotiation  समस्याएं  with Interscope Records which meant  a  limited amount of records were made available to the public .
As of 2011 , Way  रै  confirmed he is working  on  his fourth studio album , entitled USA DRE , which  होगा  be released in 2013 .
The electron transport chain in the mitochondrion is the site  of  oxidative phosphorylation  in  eukaryotes .
The NADH  और   succinate   उत्पन्न  in the  साइट्रिक   एसिड  cycle are oxidized , providing energy to power ATP synthase  .
Photosynthetic electron transport chain of the thylakoid membrane .
An electron  हस्तांतरण  chain ( ETC ) couples electron transfer  between  an electron donor ( such as NADH ) and  an  electron acceptor (  ऐसे  as O2 ) with the transfer of  H+  ions ( protons )  आरपार  a membrane .
The resulting electrochemical proton  अनुपात  is used to generate chemical energy in the form of  एडीनोसिन   ट्राइफॉस्फेट  ( ATP ) .
Electron transport chains  हैं  the cellular  mechanisms  used for extracting energy from  धूप  in photosynthesis and also  इससे   रेडॉक्स  reactions  ,  such as  the  oxidation of sugars ( respiration ) .
In chloroplasts , light drives  the  conversion  of   जल  to oxygen and NADP+  to  NADPH with transfer of H+ ions across chloroplast membranes .
in  mitochondria , it is the conversion of  ऑक्सीजन  to  जल  , NADH  to   naD+   और  succinate to  fumarate  that are required to generate the proton  अनुपात  .
Electron transport chains are major  साइट  of premature electron leakage to oxygen , generating superoxide and potentially resulting in increased oxidative  तनाव  .
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as Conzip  ,  Ryzolt , Ultracet ,  ultram  in  the  USA  ,  Ralivia  ,   zytram  XL Durella { CR-100/200 mg  }  in Canada  or  Adolonta  in  Spain ) is  a   centrally  acting  सिंथेटिक  analgesic used to  दावत  moderate to moderately severe pain  .
The drug has a  चौड़ी  range of applications ,  सहित  treatment of  आमवातीय   गठिया  , restless legs syndrome , motor neurone disease and fibromyalgia .
It  थी  launched and  marketed  as Tramal by the German pharmaceutical company Grünenthal GmbH in  1977  .
Tramadol is a  कमजोर  μ-opioid receptor agonist that also induces serotonin release and  inhibits  the  reuptake   of  norepinephrine .
Tramadol is metabolized to O-desmethyltramadol ,  a  significantly more potent  μ-opioid   agonist  .
Tramadol and its major metabolite  (  s ) are  विशिष्ट   इससे  other  अधिक  potent opioid  agonists  by  सापेक्ष  selectivity for μ-opioid receptors .
Bernard Lawrence `` Bernie '' Madoff (  ;  born April 29  ,  1938 ) is  an   अमरीकी  former stockbroker , investment advisor , financier , and white collar criminal .
He is the former non-executive Chairman of the NASDAQ stock market , and the admitted  ऑपरेटर  of  a  Ponzi scheme that is considered to be the largest  वित्तीय  fraud in  u.S.  history .
Madoff founded the Wall Street firm Bernard L. Madoff Investment  प्रतिभूति  LLC in 1960 , and  थी  its chairman until his arrest  on  December  11  , 2008 .
The  कड़  was one of the top market  मेकर  businesses on Wall Street , which bypassed `` specialist '' firms by directly executing orders over the counter from retail brokers  .
he   employed  at the firm his brother Peter as Senior Managing  निदेशक  and Chief Compliance Officer ;  पीटर  has since been  sentenced  to 10 years in prison .
Peter 's  बेटी  Shana  madoff  as the firm 's rules and compliance officer and attorney , and his sons  एंड्रयू  and  चिह्नित  ( Mark  वचनबद्ध  suicide  by  hanging exactly two  सालो   बाद   उसके   पिता  's arrest )  .
On December 10  ,  2008 ,  madoff  's sons told authorities that their father had confessed  to  them that  the  asset management  ईकाई  of his  कड़  was a massive Ponzi  योजना  ,  और  quoted him as describing it  as  ``  एक   बिग  lie .  ''
The following day  ,  FBI agents arrested Madoff  और  charged him with one  गिनती  of securities  धोखाधड़ी  .
the  U.S.  प्रतिभूति  and Exchange Commission (  सेक  ) had previously conducted investigations into Madoff 's business practices , but did not uncover the massive fraud  .
In March 2009 , Madoff pleaded guilty to 11  संघीय  felonies and admitted to  turning  his wealth management business into  a  massive Ponzi scheme that defrauded thousands of  निवेशकों  of billions  of  dollars .
Madoff  कहा  he  began  the Ponzi scheme in the early 1990s .
However , federal investigators believe  the  fraud began as  जल्दी  as the 1970s , and those charged  साथ  recovering the missing money believe the  निवेश  operation may  never  have been  legitimate  .
The amount missing  इससे  client accounts , including fabricated gains , was almost $  65  billion .
The  court-appointed  trustee  अनुमानित  actual losses to investors  of  $ 18  अरब  .
on  June  29  , 2009 , he  थी   sentenced   to   150  years in prison , the maximum allowed .
Administrative Professionals  दिन  ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in several countries to recognize the work of secretaries , administrative  assistants   ,  receptionists ,  और  other  प्रशासनिक  support professionals .
In North America , it is celebrated  on  the Wednesday of the  पिछला  full week of April  (  April 24 in  2013   )  .
in  France it is celebrated on the third Thursday in  अप्रैल   (  April 18 in 2013 ) .
In Australia it is celebrated on the first Friday in May
A quasi-judicial  देह  is an entity such as an arbitrator or tribunal board  ,  generally of a public administrative  एजेंसी  , which  रै   शक्तियां   और   प्रक्रियाओं   resembling  those of a court of law or judge ,  और  which  is  obligated to objectively determine facts  और  draw conclusions from them  so  as to provide the basis  of  an official action .
Such actions  हैं  able to  उपाय   a  situation or impose legal penalties ,  और   may  affect the  विधिक   अधिकारों   ,  duties or privileges of specific parties .
Monument of Tycho Brahe and  योहानेस  Kepler in Prague
Tycho  ब्राहे  (  14  December 154624 October  1601   )  ,  born  Tyge Ottesen  ब्राहे  ,  थी  a  डैनिश  nobleman known  लिये  his accurate  और  comprehensive  खगोलीय  and  ग्रहीय  observations .
He was born in  स्कैनिया  , then  भाग  of Denmark , now part  of  modern-day Sweden .
Tycho was well known in his lifetime as an astronomer and alchemist .
In his De nova  स्टेला   (  On the new star ) of 1573 ,  he   refuted  the  aristotelian   विश्वास  in  an  unchanging  celestial  realm  .
His precise  माप  indicated that ``  नई  stars  ,  '' ( stellae novae , now known as supernovae ) in particular that  of   1572  ,  lacked  the  लंबन   अपेक्षित  in sub-lunar phenomena  ,  and  यहूद   इसलिए   नहीं   ``   वायुमंडलीय  '' tailless comets as  previously  believed , but were above the atmosphere and  चंद्रमा  .
Using similar measurements he  दिखाया  that comets were also  नहीं   वायुमंडलीय  phenomena ,  as  previously thought , and must pass through the supposedly  ``   अपरिवर्तनीय  '' celestial spheres .
As an  astronomer  , Tycho  worked  to  combine  what he saw as  the  geometrical  लाभ  of the Copernican system with the  philosophical  benefits of the  ptolemaic  system into his  अपना  model  of  the universe  ,  the Tychonic system .
Furthermore , he was  the   पिछला   of  the  प्रमुख  naked eye astronomers , working without telescopes for his  observations  .
Tycho Brahe was granted an estate on the island of  hven  and  the  funding to  निर्माण  the  uraniborg   ,  an  जल्दी  research  संस्थान  ,  जहाँ   he  built large astronomical instruments and took many  careful  measurements , and later Stjerneborg , underground , when he discovered that his instruments in the former  यहूद  not  fear  steady .
On  the  island (  on  which he  demonstrated  autocratic character and behavior toward the residents ) he founded manufactories such as paper-making to provide material for  मुद्रण  his  परिणाम  .
After  मतभिन्नता  with the new Danish king Christian IV in 1597 , he was invited by the Bohemian king and Holy  रोमन   सम्राट  Rudolph II to Prague , where he became the official  इम्पीरियल  astronomer .
He built the new observatory  at  Benátky nad Jizerou  .
यहाँ  , from 1600 until his death in  1601   ,   he  was assisted  by  Johannes Kepler  जो  later used  tycho  's astronomical  आंकड़ा   to  develop Kepler 's laws of planetary motion .
guro  District ( Guro-gu )  is  a district of Seoul , South Korea  ,  which was  अलग  from Yeongdeungpo District  on   अप्रैल  1 , 1980 .
स्तिथ  in the southwestern part of  the  city , where  besides  Yangcheon  ज़िला  and Geumcheon  ज़िला   guro   ज़िला  has an  महत्वपूर्ण  position as  a  transport link which contains railroads  ,   जमीन  routes from  the   बाकी  of Seoul to the south of the  देश  .
The  gyeongbu   और   gyeongin  railway lines connect  सियोल  to Busan  और  Incheon .
in  addition , Seoul Metropolitan Subway lines 1 ,  2  , and 7 ,  और  major highways intersect in  guro  District .
The name Guro originates from the legend that nine ( ) old men  (  Korean :  ro   )  enjoyed longevity in  the  district .
A digital industrial complex is located in  guro  District .
The Guro Digital Industrial Complex , which played a leading industrial role mainly with  वस्त्र  manufacturing , dressmaking and other labour-intensive industries in 1967  ,  has been  rapidly   बदला   into  an IT  औद्योगिक  complex .
This complex played a pivotal role  in  the economic  विकास  of the South  कोरियाई   's  development era , referred to as the `` Miracle on the Han River `` , and also contributed  10  percent of national export in the 1970s .
Twenty-one percent of the  कुल  area of Guro  ज़िला   is  a restricted zone  to  be used as  a  greenbelt  साथ  the only arboretum  in  Seoul .
the  zone is changing into a lively  ज़िला  as large  labour-intensive   कारखानों  are moving  इससे  the area and the council is developing  कया  it terms its four zones .
An `` e-government  ``  system based on this hosted the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  e-participation  फ़ोरम  on February 7–9 , 2007 , with  the   भागीदारी  of more than thirty-seven countries  .
The  फ़ोरम   थी  launched with the theme `` Promoting Democracy and Regional Development '' and twenty-five mayors including André Santini  (  Issy-les-Moulineaux , France ) , Kevin Foy ( Chapel Hill , US ) ,  apirak   kosayothin  ( Bangkok , Thailand ) , Uvais Mohamed Emthiyas  (  Colombo , Sri Lanka  )  , and world experts such  as  Dr William H.  dutton   (  Director  of  Oxford Internet Institute at the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Oxford ,  uk  )  और  Dr  ari-veiko   anttiroiko  ( professor at the University of Tampere , Finland ) participated in  the   फ़ोरम   .
the  Guro Declaration  ,  adopted during the forum  ,  aims  to  set up a  पोर्टल  site for e-government development  और   to  establish a  कंक्रीट  project in  अनुक्रम  to  सेतु  the digital divide among the world 's  शहरों   .
This  अभ्यास  has been  recognised   लिये   providing  a new important step in the development of e-democracy .
The  e-participation   फ़ोरम  was  a  key factor for Guro to play the leading role in  bridging  the digital divide among cities , to provide I.T .  उद्यमों   स्तिथ  in Guro Digital Industrial Complex the opportunity  to  launch into  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  market  ,  to improve its image and become a global leader  to  concrete  e-democracy  .
the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  e-participation forum on February 7–9 ,  2007
a  wonton (  भी   spelled   wantan  ,  wanton  ,  or  wuntun  in  transcription from Cantonese  ;  Mandarin  :  húndùn ) is  a   प्रकार  of dumpling commonly found  in  a number of Chinese  व्यंजन  .
Many people were  शामिल  in the invention  of  radio as we now know it .
Several  संभावित  methods of wireless communication were considered  ,  including  आगमनात्मक  and capacitive  प्रेरण  and transmission  through  the ground , however the method used for  रेडियो  today exclusively involves the  हस्तांतरण   और  reception  of  electromagnetic waves .
After early speculation on the subject ,  प्रायोगिक  work  on   the  connection between electricity and magnetism began  around  1820 with the work of Hans Christian  ओर्स्टेड  and continued with the  कार्य  of André-Marie Ampère ,  जोसेफ   हेनरी  , and Michael Faraday  .
ये  investigations culminated  in  the complete theory of electromagnetism developed  by   जेम्स  Clerk Maxwell .
इस  theory described the theoretical basis of the propagation of  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  waves .
After Maxwell  's  theory was published many people experimented with wireless communication  ,  some intentionally using  मैक्सवेल  's  सिद्धान्त   कुछ  not .
It is considered  संभावित  that the  पहला  intentional transmission of a signal by means of electromagnetic waves was  performed   by  David  एडवर्ड   ह्यूजेस   around  1880 , although  इस  was considered  to  be induction at the time .
The first systematic and  unequivocal   हस्तांतरण  of EM waves was performed by Heinrich  रुडॉल्फ  Hertz and described  in  papers published in  1887  and 1890  .
Hertz famously  माना   ये  results as  होने  of  छोटी  practical value  .
बाद  Hertz 's work many people were involved in the development of components and theory involved with the transmission and  रिसेप्शन  of electromagnetic waves .
Others ,  notably   guglielmo  Marconi ,  यहूद  concerned with practical improvements and the commercial  अनुप्रयोग  of radio to wireless telegraphy  .
Later on  रेगिनाल्ड  A. Fessenden  became  the first to send an audio signal by means of electromagnetic waves .
Scurvy  is  a disease resulting  इससे  a deficiency of vitamin  c  , which  is  required for the synthesis of collagen  in  humans  .
The  रासायनिक   नाम  for  विटामिन  C , ascorbic acid  ,  is derived from the Latin name of scurvy , scorbutus , which  भी  provides the adjective scorbutic ( `` of , characterized by or having to  do  with scurvy '' ) .
Scurvy  प्रायः  presents  itself  initially  as  symptoms  of  malaise and  lethargy   ,  followed by  गठन  of spots on the  स्किन  , spongy  मसूड़ों  , and  bleeding  from the mucous membranes .
धब्बे  are  सबसे  abundant on the thighs  और  legs ,  और  a person with the ailment looks pale  ,  feels depressed  ,  and is partially immobilized .
As scurvy advances , there can be open ,  suppurating  wounds  ,  loss of teeth  ,  jaundice , fever  ,  neuropathy and death .
स्कर्वी  was at  एक  time common among sailors  ,  pirates and others aboard ships at sea longer than perishable  फल  and vegetables could be stored (  subsisting  instead only  on  cured and  salted  meats and dried  दाने  )  और  by soldiers similarly deprived  of  these foods for extended periods .
It was  वर्णित  by Hippocrates  (  c. 460 BC–c  .  380 BC ) , and herbal cures for scurvy have been known in many native cultures since prehistory  .
Scurvy was  एक  of  the  limiting  कारकों  of marine  सफर  , often killing large numbers of the passengers and crew  on  long-distance  voyages  .
This became a significant issue in Europe from the beginning of the modern era  in  the Age of Discovery in the  15th  century , continuing to play  a   significant  role  through  World War  i  in  the   20th  century .
While  आज  scurvy is known  to  be caused  by  a nutritional deficiency  ,  until the isolation of vitamin C and direct  प्रमाण  of its link to  स्कर्वी   in  1932 , numerous theories and treatments were proposed ,  प्रायः   on  little or no experimental  आंकड़ा  .
This inconsistency is attributed to the lack of vitamin C as a distinct  अवधारणा  , an inability to reliably link different foods ( notably present  in   भैस   citrus   ,   watercress  , and organ meat ) to scurvy .
An additional  अवधारणा  required to understand scurvy was the degradation of vitamin C by exposure to air and copper and  अन्य  transition metal  लवण  such as those of iron , thus changing the links  of  foods to scurvy over  समय  .
उपचार  by  भैस  food , particularly citrus fruit , was periodically  implemented   ,  as it had been since antiquity  .
however  until  the   1930s  , treatment was inconsistent , with many ineffective treatments used  into  the 20th century .
It was a Scottish surgeon  in  the Royal  नेवी   ,   जेम्स  Lind who first proved it could be treated with  citrus  fruit in experiments  he  described in his 1753 book , A Treatise of the  स्कर्वी  , though his advice was  नहीं  implemented by the Royal  नेवी   लिये   अनेक  decades .
In infants ,  स्कर्वी  is  sometimes  referred  to  as Barlow 's disease , named after Sir Thomas  barlow  , a British physician  जो  described it .
However  ,  Barlow 's  बीमारी   may  also  refer  to mitral valve  prolapse  .
Other eponyms  लिये  scurvy include Moeller 's disease and Cheadle 's disease  .
Scurvy does  नहीं  occur  in  most animals because they can synthesize their own vitamin  c  .
However  ,  humans and  अन्य   उच्चतर  primates ( the simians - monkeys and apes - and tarsiers )  ,  guinea  सूअर  , most or all bats , and some species of birds and fish lack an  एंजाइम  ( L-gulonolactone  oxidase   )  necessary  लिये  such synthesis and  जरूर  obtain vitamin C through  उनके  diet .
Vitamin C is widespread in plant tissues , with particularly high concentrations occurring in  citrus  fruits ( oranges , lemons ,  limes   ,  grapefruits ) , tomatoes , potatoes  ,  cabbages , and green peppers .
Iron is a chemical element with the symbol  fe  ( from )  और  atomic number 26 .
It is a metal in the first transition series .
It is the most common  तत्व  ( by mass ) forming the planet  धरती  as  a  whole , forming much of Earth 's  बाहरी   और  inner core .
It is  the  fourth most common element in the  धरती   's  crust  .
Iron 's very common presence  in  rocky planets  जैसे  Earth is due  to  its  abundant  production as a  परिणाम  of  संलयन  in high-mass  सितारों  , where  the  production of  nickel-56  (  जिससे  decays  to  the most common isotope of iron ) is the last nuclear fusion reaction that is exothermic .
This  कल्याणकारी  radioactive nickel to become the last element to be  उत्पादित  before collapse of a supernova  लीड  to the explosive  कार्यक्रम  that scatter this precursor radionuclide of iron  abundantly   into  space .
Like other group 8 elements , iron  exists  in a wide range of oxidation  राज्य  ,  −2  to +6 ,  हालांकि  +2 and +3 are the most common .
Elemental iron occurs in meteoroids and other low oxygen environments , but is reactive to oxygen and water .
Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray , but  oxidize  in normal air to give hydrated iron oxides , commonly  ज्ञात  as rust  .
नापसंद   अनेक  other metals which form  passivating  oxide layers , iron oxides occupy more volume than iron metal ,  और  thus iron oxides  फ्लेक  off and expose fresh surfaces for  संक्षारण  .
Iron  मेटल  has been used since ancient times , though copper  alloys   ,  which have lower melting temperatures , were used  पहला  in history .
Pure iron is  नरम  ( softer than aluminium  )  , but  is  unobtainable  by  smelting .
The material is significantly hardened and strengthened  by  impurities  इससे  the smelting  प्रक्रम  , such as  कार्बन  .
A certain proportion of carbon ( between  0.002   %   और  2.1 %  )  produces  स्टील  ,  जिससे  may be up  to  1000 times harder than pure iron  .
Crude  आयरन   मेटल  is produced  in  blast furnaces , where ore is reduced by coke  to  pig iron , which has  a  high carbon content .
Further refinement with oxygen reduces the carbon content to the correct  proportion  to make steel .
steels  and low carbon iron alloys  साथ  other metals ( alloy steels ) are by far the most common  धातुओं  in industrial use , due to their great range of desirable properties and the abundance of  आयरन   .
Iron chemical compounds ,  जिससे  include ferrous and ferric compounds  ,  have many uses .
आयरन  oxide mixed with aluminium  चूर्ण  can be ignited to create  a   थर्माइट  reaction , used in welding and purifying ores .
It forms binary compounds with the halogens and the  chalcogens  .
among  its  कार्बधातुक   यौगिकों  is ferrocene , the first sandwich compound discovered .
Iron plays an important role in biology , forming  देवालय  with molecular oxygen in hemoglobin  और  myoglobin ; these two compounds  हैं  common oxygen transport proteins in vertebrates .
Iron is also the  मेटल  used at the active site of  अनेक  important redox enzymes dealing  साथ  cellular respiration and oxidation and  कटौती  in plants and animals .
The Blue Cross Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA )  is  a federation of 38 separate health insurance organizations and companies in  the  United States  .
संयुक्त   ,  they directly or  indirectly   provide   स्वास्थ्य  insurance to over 99 million  अमेरिकी   .
The history of Blue Cross dates back  to  1929 , while the history  of  Blue Shield dates to 1939 .
the  Blue Cross Association  तिथियाँ  back  to  1960 ,  जबकि  its Blue Shield counterpart was created in 1948 .
The  दो  organizations  मिलाया  in  1982  , forming  the  current association .
A potato chip ( known as a chip in American  ,   ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  ,  नई   जीलैंड  , Canadian , Singaporean , Hong  काँग  , South  अफ़्रीकी  and  jamaican  English ; as a crisp in British  अंग्रेज़ी  and Hiberno-English , and as either a chip or  wafer  in Indian English ) is  a  thin slice of potato that is deep fried or baked until crunchy  .
Potato chips are commonly served as an appetizer , side dish , or snack .
The basic chips  हैं   पकाया   और  salted ; additional varieties  हैं  manufactured using various flavorings  और  ingredients including  seasonings  , herbs  ,   मसाले  , cheeses  ,  and artificial  एडिटिव   .
`` Crisps ''  ,   however  ,  may  also refer  to  many different types of savory snack products sold in the United Kingdom and Ireland  ,  some made from potato , but may  भी  be made  इससे   मक्का  ,  tapioca  or other cereals .
an   उदाहरण  of these kinds of savory snacks is Monster Munch .
Potato chips are a predominant part of the  स्नैक  food  मार्केट   in  English-speaking countries  और  numerous other Western nations .
The global  आलू  chip market generated  कुल  revenues of US  $  16.4 billion in 2005 .
This accounted for 35.5  %  of the total savory snacks market in that year ( US $ 46.1  अरब   )   .
Henry Clay ,  sr.   (  April 12 ,  1777  – June  29  , 1852 ) was a lawyer , politician  और  skilled orator who represented Kentucky  in  both the Senate and in the  हाउस   of  Representatives .
He served  तीन  different terms as Speaker of the United States House of Representatives and was also Secretary of State from  1825  to 1829 .
He lost his campaigns for president in 1824 , 1832 and  1844  .
मिट्टी  was a  प्रबल  figure in both the First and  दूसरी  Party  प्रणालियों  .
as  a leading  युद्ध  hawk in 1812 ,  he   favored  war  साथ  Britain  और   निभाई   a  significant role in leading the nation to war  in  the War of  1812  .
In 1824 he ran for president  और  lost , but threw his  चुनावी   मत  to John Quincy Adams , who  बना  him secretary of state as the Jacksonians denounced what  वे  considered a ``  भ्रष्ट   सौदेबाजी   .  ''
He  भागा   और  lost again in 1832 and  1844  as the candidate of the  whig  Party ,  जिससे   he  founded and usually dominated .
मिट्टी  was the  foremost  proponent of the American System , fighting for an increase in tariffs to foster  उद्योग  in the United  राज्य   ,  the use of federal funding to build and maintain infrastructure , and a  दमदार   नेशनल  bank .
He  opposed  the annexation of Texas , fearing it would inject  the  slavery issue into politics .
Clay also opposed  the  Mexican-American War and the  ``  Manifest  नियति  `` policy of Democrats  ,  which  लागत  him votes  in   the  close 1844 election  .
Dubbed the `` Great  pacificator  , '' Clay brokered important compromises during the  nullification  Crisis and  on  the slavery issue  .
As part of  the   ``  Great Triumvirate  ``   or  `` Immortal Trio , '' along  साथ  his colleagues Daniel Webster and John  C.  Calhoun  ,   he   थी  instrumental in formulating the Missouri Compromise  of  1820 and the Compromise of 1850 .
He was viewed as the primary  प्रतिनिधि  of Western interests in  इस  group , and was given the names  ``   हेनरी  of the  वेस्ट  ''  और  `` The Western Star . ''
A plantation owner , Clay held slaves during his  आजीवन   लकिन  freed them in his  होगा  .
Abraham Lincoln ,  the  Whig leader in Illinois , was  a  great admirer of Clay , saying  he  was `` my  आदर्श  of  a  great man .  ''
Lincoln wholeheartedly supported Clay 's economic programs  .
In  1957  , a  सीनेट  Committee  चयनित  Clay as one of  the  five greatest U.S . Senators , along with Daniel Webster  ,  John C. Calhoun , Robert La Follette ,  और  Robert Taft  .
BJ 's Wholesale Club  ,  Inc. ,  commonly  referred to simply as BJ 's  ,  is a membership-only warehouse club  कड़ी  operating  on  the United States East Coast , as well  as  in the state of Ohio .
The  कम्पनी  is  क्रमित   #  232 on Fortune  पत्रिका  's 2010 listing  of  America 's 500 largest  पब्लिक   corporations  .
The Wizard of Oz  ,  known  दौरान   उसके  reign as  the  Great and Powerful Oz ,  is   the  epithet  of   ऑस्कर  Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman  henkel   emmannuel  Ambroise Diggs , a fictional  अक्षर  in the Land of Oz , created by American author  L.  Frank Baum .
the  character was further popularized by the classic  1939  movie ,  wherein  his full name is not  उल्लेखित  .
Kristinia Jamie  debarge  ( ; born March  8   ,  1990 ) is  an  American  सिंगर  , songwriter , dancer and actress .
She first appeared on national television in 2003  as  a  प्रतियोगी   on   the  American Idol  spin-off  , American Juniors  .
in  2009 , DeBarge signed a contract with the Island Records  विभाग  Sodapop , releasing her debut album Exposed in  जुलाई  of the same year .
The first single ,  ``  Goodbye  ``  , reached the top  20  in the US and Canada  .
the  lead single ( ``  क्राई  Wolf  ''   )   इससे   उसके  untitled sophomore album  थी  released on September  27  , 2012 .
The Hawaii Warriors football team represents the University  of  Hawaiʻi at  mānoa  in NCAA Division I  fbs  college football .
The team is coached by  norm  Chow .
It was  भाग  of the Western Athletic Conference  जबतक  July 2012 , when the team joined the  पहाड़  West Conference .
The  हवाई  Warriors were  the  third non-AQ team  to  play in a BCS bowl  खेल  ; losing to  जॉर्जिया  41–10 in the  शुगर  Bowl on  जनवरी  1 ,  2008  in New Orleans , Louisiana .
Marvin Gaye (  अप्रैल   2  , 1939April 1 ,  1984   )  , born Marvin Pentz Gay , Jr.  ,  was an American singer-songwriter and musician .
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in  the  1960s with a string of  हिट्स  including `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard It  through  the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells and Tammi  terrell  , later earning the titles  ``  Prince of Motown  ''   और  `` Prince of  आत्मा  '' .
During the 1970s  ,  Gaye recorded the concept  एल्बम  What 's Going On and Let 's  मिलेंगी  It On and became among  the  first artists  in   motown  to  ब्रेक  away  इससे  the reins of its production company .
Gaye 's later  रिकार्डिंग   बहकावे  several R & B  subgenres  such as quiet storm and neo-soul .
Following a period in Europe  अंतर्गत  a  कर  exile in the  जल्दी  1980s  ,  Gaye released  the  1982  ग्रैमी   award-winning  hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album .
चूंकि  his death in 1984 , Gaye  रै  been posthumously honored by many institutions  ,  including the Grammy  आजीवन  Achievement  पुरस्कार   और  the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame  .
स्थान  of Chernobyl nuclear  शक्ति  plant
The  abandoned  city  of   pripyat  with Chernobyl plant in the distance
Abandoned housing blocks in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (  ,   chornobylska  Katastrofa –  chornobyl   प्रलय   )  was a catastrophic nuclear accident that  occurred  on  26   अप्रैल  1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear  शक्ति  Plant in Ukraine (  तब  officially the Ukrainian SSR ) , which  थी  under the  सीधा  jurisdiction of the central authorities of  the  Soviet  संघ  .
an  explosion  और  fire released large quantities of  रेडियोसक्रिय  particles into the  माहौल   ,  which spread over much of  the  western USSR and Europe .
the  Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to  have  been the worst nuclear  शक्ति  plant accident in history , and is  एक  of only two classified as  a  level 7  इवेंट  on the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Nuclear  इवेंट   स्केल  ( the other being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear  विपत्ति  in 2011 ) .
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately  शामिल  over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion  rubles  .
The official Soviet casualty count  of   31  deaths has been disputed , and long-term effects such as cancers and deformities are  स्टिल  being accounted for .
Mrs.  क्लॉस  says goodbye to  उसके  husband as he sets off on his  यात्रा  in  इस  1919 postcard
Mrs. Claus is the  बीवी  of  सांता  Claus , the Christmas gift-bringer  in   उत्तर  American and  यूरोपीय  Christmas tradition  .
She is known for making  कुकीज़  with the elves  और  preparing toys with her husband Santa Claus  .
Her first name  is   a  mystery , though she has been  referred  to as Mary , Jessica ,  layla  ,  annette  , Heidi  ,  or Martha .
HijackThis ( also HiJackThis or HJT ) is  an  open source enumerating tool  लिये  Microsoft  खिड़कियाँ  originally created by Merijn Bellekom , and later  बेची   to  Trend Micro .
the  program  is  notable  लिये   लक्ष्यीकरण  browser-hijacking methods , rather than relying on  a   डेटाबेस   of   ज्ञात  spyware .
it  scans  a  user 's  कंप्यूटर  quickly , and displays browser hijacking locations ,  प्रर्दशित  what entries are there .
HijackThis is used  primarily  for diagnosis of  ब्राउजर   hijacking   ,  as uninformed use of its removal facilities can  कारण  significant software damage to  a  computer  .
HijackThis does not remove or detect spyware ; it lists  सबसे  common locations where  ब्राउजर  hijacking activity can  occur  .
Browser hijacking can cause malware to  be  installed on a computer .
On February 16 , 2012 , Trend Micro  released  the  hijackthis  source code as open source and it is now  उपलब्धियाँ  on  the  SourceForge site .
Saddle Creek Records is an American record label based in  ओमाहा  , Nebraska .
प्रारंभ  as a college  क्लास  project on entrepreneurship , the label  थी  founded by Mike Mogis and Justin Oberst in 1993 ( as Lumberjack Records )  .
mogis  soon turned over  उसके  role in the company to Robb Nansel  .
the  label is  नामित  after Saddle Creek Road  ,  a street that cuts through the east side of midtown Omaha , and  the  beginnings of a scene  जिनकी   सदस्यों   शामिल  Conor Oberst ( then a solo artist ,  फिलहाल  of Bright Eyes , Conor Oberst and the Mystic Valley Band , Desaparecidos and Monsters of  लोक  ) , Tim Kasher (  तब   of  Slowdown  वर्जिनिया  , currently of Cursive and  the  Good  जीवन  ) , and others .
collectively  , they were known unofficially  as  the `` Creekers '' .
Saddle Creek first appeared in  छपाई   on  a show  flyer  ,  offering   to  ``  खर्च   an  evening with Saddle Creek '' ( later to be the  शीर्षक  of the label 's DVD . )
Saddle Creek  became  an incorporated entity as a  परिणाम  of a class project  on  entrepreneurship .
Distribution is handled  by  the Alternative Distribution Alliance , which is under the Warner Music  समूह  umbrella .
Saddle Creek  रिकॉर्ड   continues  to  be   the  flagship label  of   a  style of music called `` The Omaha  ध्वनि   ``  , characterized by  a  slight  देश  twang .
This is increasingly inaccurate , though ,  साथ  the rise of more  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  sounds such  as  those favored by  the  Faint and Broken Spindles .
The eclectic sounds of  काठी  Creek  's  disparate  सदस्य   bands  is somewhat explained by their history  ;  a  क्रमांक  of  the  original members  of   the  label  attended   ग्रेड  school together .
A `` sister label '' , of  sorts   ,  to Saddle Creek is Team Love , started by Conor Oberst in 2004  .
the  label  खोली  arms to their first bands  नहीं  based in Omaha in 2001 with releases by Now It 's Overhead and Sorry  परिचय   ड्रेसडेन   .
अन्य  non-Nebraskan artists  followed  , including Los Angeles 's Rilo Kiley , Eric Bachmann  (   formerly  leader  of  Archers of Loaf and Crooked Fingers  इससे  North Carolina ) , Georgie  जेम्स  ( Washington  d.C.   )  , Two Gallants  (  San Francisco ) , and most recently  टोकियो  Police  क्लबों   (  Toronto ) .
In 2005 , Spend an Evening  साथ  Saddle Creek , a documentary  detailing  the first ten years of the record label 's history  ,   थी  released .
The DVD features extensive interviews with  the   काठी  Creek bands , archival footage , and rare live  प्रदर्शन  .
On  जून  8 ,  2007  , the  लेबल  opened  उनके  own music venue named  slowdown  ( after the group Slowdown Virginia )  ,  located in downtown Omaha , Nebraska .
The following is a  सूची  of episodes for the television show Full House .
In total , there  यहूद  192  एपीसोड  filmed for the show over the course of its eight seasons , from 1987 to 1995  .
पूरा  House is a situation  कॉमेडी  which chronicles  a  widowed father 's struggles of  उठाने  his three young daughters and  the  lives  कि   वे  have touched .
The patriarch of the family , Danny ( Bob Saget )  ,  invites his  brother-in-law  Jesse ( John Stamos ) and his best friend Joey ( Dave  coulier  ) , to help raise his  children  (  candace   cameron  , Jodie Sweetin ,  और  Mary Kate/Ashley  olsen  ) , after  उसके  wife was killed during an automobile accident involving a drunk driver .
After episodes 88 and 89 , Jesse marries Becky  (   लोरी  Loughlin ) , and they move into the attic .
Then  ,  after episodes 104 and 105 , Becky  और   जेसी  have twin boys  नामित  Nicky and Alex (  डेनियल   और  Kevin Renteria/Blake  और  Dylan Tuomy-Wilhoit ) .
The series ends with episode 192 , `` Michelle Rides Again  भाग   2  '' , when Michelle loses her memory  और  the family  कोशिशें  to restore it  .
Notice of Stamp Act of 1765 in Newspaper
American newspapers reacted to  the  Stamp Act with anger and predictions  of  the demise of journalism .
The Stamp Act 1765 ( short title Duties in  अमरीकी  Colonies Act 1765 ; 5 George III , c. 12 ) imposed a direct tax by the  अंग्रेजों  Parliament specifically on the colonies of British America , and  it  required  कि  many  मुद्रित  materials in  the   colonies  be produced  on   stamped  paper produced in London , carrying an embossed revenue  स्टैम्प  .
These printed materials were legal documents ,  मैगज़ीन  , newspapers and many other types  of  paper  प्रयुक्त   throughout  the colonies  .
जैसे   पिछला  taxes , the  स्टैम्प   कर  had to  be  paid in  मान्य  British currency ,  नहीं  in colonial paper money .
the   purpose  of the tax was to help pay for troops stationed  in  North America after the  अंग्रेजों  victory  in  the Seven Years ' War .
The British government felt that the  colonies  were the primary beneficiaries of this military  उपस्थिति  ,  और   चाहिए  pay at least a portion of the expense  .
The Stamp  अधिनियम  met great resistance in the colonies .
the  colonies sent  no   प्रतिनिधि  to Parliament , and therefore had  no  influence over  कया  taxes were raised , how they  यहूद  levied , or how they would be spent .
Many colonists  माना  it a  उल्लंघन  of their rights as Englishmen to  be  taxed  बगैर  their consent —consent that  तभी   the  colonial  विधानमंडलों  could  ग्रान्ट  .
Colonial assemblies sent  याचिकाएं  and  विरोध  .
The Stamp Act Congress held in New York City , reflecting the first significant joint colonial response to any  अंग्रेजों  measure , also petitioned Parliament  और  the King .
लोकल  protest groups , led by colonial merchants and landowners , established  कनेक्शन्स  through correspondence that created a loose coalition that extended from New England to  जॉर्जिया  .
Protests and demonstrations initiated by  the  Sons  of   स्वतंत्रता  often turned violent  और  destructive as  the  masses became involved .
Very  जल्द  all stamp tax distributors  यहूद  intimidated into resigning  उनके   आयोग   ,   और  the  कर   थी  never effectively collected .
Opposition to the Stamp Act was not limited to the colonies .
British merchants  और  manufacturers , whose exports to the colonies were threatened by colonial economic problems exacerbated by the tax ,  भी   pressured  Parliament .
The Act was repealed on March  18   ,  1766 as a matter of  expedience  , but Parliament  affirmed   इसके  power to legislate for the  colonies   “in  all  मामले  whatsoever” by also passing  the  Declaratory Act .
There followed a series  of  new taxes  और  regulations , likewise opposed by the colonists .
The episode played a major role in  धमक  the grievances and enabling  the  organized colonial resistance  कि  led to the American Revolution in 1775 .
PT-105 underway .
PT boats were  a   किस्में  of torpedo-armed fast attack craft used by  the  United States  नेवी   in  World War II to attack larger surface ships .
`` PT '' is the US hull classification  प्रतीक  for `` Patrol Torpedo  ''  .
The PT boat  squadrons   यहूद  nicknamed `` the mosquito fleet '' .
The Japanese called them `` Devil Boats '' .
The original pre– World War I  torpedo  boats were designed with `` displacement  ''  hulls  .
They displaced up  to   300  tons  और  the top  गति   थी  .
The PT boats used in  संसार   युद्ध  II were built using the planing -type hull form developed for racing boats .
They were much smaller ( 30–75 tons ) and faster  (  35–40 knots ) .
Both types were designed to strike at larger warships with torpedoes , using relatively high speed to  मिलेंगी  close , and small size to avoid being spotted and hit  by  gunfire .
वे  were much less expensive than large warships .
PT boats were much faster , smaller ,  और   सस्ता  than conventional ( displacement  हल  ) vessels .
During World War  ii  , American PT boats engaged enemy  destroyers  and numerous other surface  शिल्प  , ranging from small  नौकाएँ  to large supply ships .
PT boats also operated as  gunboats  against enemy small craft ,  ऐसे  as  कराया   barges  used by the Japanese forces for inter-island transport .
Good Friday is a religious holiday observed primarily by Christians commemorating the crucifixion of Jesus  मसीह  and his death at Calvary .
The  अवकाश  is observed during  पावन  Week as part of  the   paschal  Triduum on the Friday preceding  ईस्टर   संडे  ,  और  may  coincide  with the  यहूदी   observance  of  passover  .
It  is  also known  as   पावन  Friday  ,  Great Friday , Black Friday , or Easter Friday , though  the  latter properly refers  to  the Friday in  ईस्टर  week .
Based on  the  details of the  canonical  gospels , the Crucifixion of Jesus  थी  most  संभावित  to have been  on  a Friday  (  the day before the Sabbath ) ( ) .
The estimated year of the Crucifixion  is   ad   33  ,  by  two different groups , and  originally  as AD 34 by Isaac Newton via the  मतभेद  between the  biblical   और  Julian calendars  और  the crescent  of  the  चंद्रमा  .
a  third method ,  using   a  completely different astronomical approach based on a lunar Crucifixion darkness and eclipse model ( consistent with Apostle Peter  's   सन्दर्भ   to  a `` moon of blood '' in Acts 2:20 ) ,  अंक  to Friday  ,  3 April AD  33  .
the   ग्रेट  Basin is  the  largest area of endorheic  watersheds  in North America  .
It is noted for both its arid conditions and its Basin and range topography that  varies  from the North American low point  at   badwater  Basin to the  उच्चतम  point of the contiguous United States  ,   कम  than  दूर  at  the  summit of Mount Whitney .
The  प्रदेश  spans several  physiographic  divisions ,  biomes  / ecoregions , and deserts .
Raster  may  refer to:
Raster  ग्राफिक्स  , graphical  तकनीकों   using  arrays  of  pixel values
Raster graphics editor , a  कंप्यूटर  program
Raster scan  ,  the pattern of image readout , transmission , storage ,  और   पुनर्निर्माण  in television  और  computer  बिंब
Rasterisation , or rasterization , conversion of a vector image to a raster image
Raster image processor , or RIP , a component of a printing system that performs rasterisation
Raster interrupt , a computer  इन्टरनेट  signal
Raster  to  vector ,  an  image conversion  प्रक्रम
Raster  बार  , an effect used in  कंप्यूटर  demos
raster-noton  , a record label
Rastrum ,  a   यंत्र  used in medieval music manuscripts  to  draw staff lines
Raster Document Object , a file format
बियोवुल्फ़  ( ;  बूढ़ा   अंग्रेज़ी   :  ) is  a  legendary Geatish  नायिका  and  बाद   turned  king in the epic poem named after  उसे  , one of the oldest surviving pieces of  साहित्य  in the English language .
The  आक्रमण  on  पर्ल   हार्बर  ( called  हवाई  Operation  or  Operation  ai  by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning )  और   the  Battle of Pearl Harbor  )  was  a  surprise  सैन्य  strike conducted  by  the  इम्पीरियल  Japanese Navy against the United States naval  आधार  at Pearl Harbor , Hawaii ,  on  the morning  of  December 7 , 1941  (   दिसम्बर  8 in Japan ) .
From  the  standpoint  of  the defenders , the attack  commenced  at  7:48  a.m. Hawaiian Time .
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from interfering  साथ  military actions the Empire  of  Japan was  नियोजन  in  southeast  Asia  विरूद्ध   विदेशी  territories of  the  United  किंगडम   ,  the Netherlands , and  the   संयुक्त  States .
The base was attacked by  353  Japanese fighters , bombers and torpedo  planes  in  दो  waves , launched from six aircraft carriers .
सब   आठ  U.S. Navy  battleships  were damaged , with four being  sunk   .
Two of these were later raised , and with  the  remaining four repaired  ,  six battleships returned to service later in the war .
The Japanese also sank  or  damaged three cruisers , three destroyers ,  an   anti-aircraft  training  जलयान  , and one minelayer .
188 U.S. aircraft were  नष्ट  ; 2,402 Americans  यहूद   मारे  and 1,282 wounded .
Important base installations such as  the  power station ,  डॉकयार्ड  , maintenance , and fuel and  torpedo  storage  सुविधाएं  , as well as  the  submarine piers and headquarters building  (  also  घर   of   the  intelligence section  )  were not attacked .
जापानी  losses were light : 29 aircraft and five midget submarines  खोया  ,  और  65 servicemen killed or  wounded   .
एक  Japanese sailor was captured  .
The attack  आए  as  a  profound shock to the American people and led  सीधे   to  the American entry into World War II  in  both  the  Pacific and European theaters .
The following  दिन  ( December 8 ) , the United States declared war on Japan .
Domestic support for non-interventionism , which had been strong , disappeared .
Clandestine support  of  Britain ( for  उदाहरण  the  neutrality   पैट्रोल  ) was replaced by active alliance .
Subsequent operations by the  u.S.  prompted Germany and Italy to declare  युद्ध  on the U.S. on December 11  ,  which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day  .
There were numerous historical precedents for unannounced military action by  जापानी  .
However  ,  the  कमी  of any formal warning  ,  particularly while negotiations were still apparently  जारी  , led President Franklin D. Roosevelt to  proclaim  December 7 , 1941 , `` a date which  होगा   सजीव  in infamy `` .
U.S. Route 85 ( US 85 ) is a  north–south  United States highway  कि  runs  लिये  in the Mountain - Northern Plains states  of  the United  राज्य  .
The  दक्षिणी  terminus  of  the route is at the United States-Mexico border in El Paso , Texas , connecting with Mexican Federal  राजमार्ग  45 .
The northern  टर्मिनस  is at  the  United  states-canada  border  in   fortuna  , North  डकोटा  , where the route  continues   उत्तर  as Saskatchewan Highway  35  .
In both  the  United States and Saskatchewan  ,  Canada  the  route is known  as  the CanAm  राजमार्ग  .
भाग  of US 85 are considered  भाग   of   the  Theodore Roosevelt Expressway .
The United States  अध्यक्षीय  election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial presidential election , held on Tuesday  ,  November  5   ,   1968  .
The Republican nominee , former Vice-President Richard Nixon , won the election over  the  Democratic  nominee  , incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey .
Nixon ran on a campaign  कि   promised  to restore law and order to the nation 's cities ,  फटा  by riots and crime .
Analysts  have   argued  the election of 1968  is  a realigning election as it permanently disrupted the New Deal Coalition that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years .
coming  four years  बाद  Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson  जीती  in  a  historic  भूस्खलन  , the election saw the incumbent president forced out of the race and  a  Republican elected for the first  समय   in  twelve years  .
It was a wrenching national experience  ,  conducted during  a  year of violence that included the assassination  of   सिविल  rights leader Martin Luther  किंग  , Jr. , and subsequent race  दंगे  across the nation , the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F.  कैनेडी  ,  फैली  opposition to the Vietnam  युद्ध  across university campuses ,  और   हिंसक   confrontations  between  पुलिस  and anti-war protesters at  the  1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again .
The election featured the strongest  तीसरा  party effort since 1912 by former Alabama Governor  जार्ज   वालेस  ,  a  Democrat .
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the South to end school segregation , he carried the Deep South  और   भागा  well  in  ethnic industrial districts in the North  .
This was  the  last election in which New York had the most votes in the electoral college  (  43 votes ) .
After the 1970 census , California  gained   the  most electoral  मत   और  has  remained  the most populous  राज्य  since then .
This is the  नवीनतम  election where a  अध्यक्षीय  ticket won without carrying  the  vice  अध्यक्षीय  candidate 's home state .
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows  nt  family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer  प्रदर्शन  and running applications , processes and CPU usage , commit charge and  मेमोरी  information  ,  network activity  और  statistics  ,   logged-in  users , and system services (  और  as often  is   the  case with software tools provided by  microsoft   लिये  Windows , 3rd  पार्टी  software is available which fills the requirements more  thoroughly  ,  e.g  ,  ``  Process  एक्सप्लोरर  '' , `` Extended Task Manager ''  ,  `` Anvir Task  मैनेजर  '' , `` Process Hacker '' , and `` System  एक्सप्लोरर   ''  )  .
The Task Manager  can  also be used to set  प्रक्रम   प्राथमिकताएं  ,  प्रोसेसर  affinity , forcibly terminate processes , and  shut  down  ,   restart  ,  hibernate  or  log  off from Windows .
Windows Task  मैनेजर  was introduced with Windows NT 4.0 .
Previous versions of Windows NT included the Task List application , which  था  far fewer features .
The task list was capable  of  listing currently running  प्रक्रियाओं  and killing them ,  or  creating a new process .
In Windows XP  तभी  , a Shutdown menu is also present that allows  अभिगम   to   standby  , Hibernate ,  फेरे   बंद  , Restart , Log Off and Switch User  .
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows (  microsoft  Windows 3.x ,  खिड़कियाँ  95 , Windows  98  ) had a program known as tasks to display the  कार्यक्रम  currently  कार्यशील   .
This file  थी  executed by running the  taskman.exe  file from the C  :  \Windows directory .
Kanji ( ; )  हैं  the adopted logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) that are used in the modern Japanese writing system along with hiragana ( ひらがな ,  )  , katakana ( カタカナ , ) , Hindu-Arabic numerals , and  the   occasional  use of the Latin alphabet .
The Japanese term kanji  (  ) for the Chinese characters literally means `` Han characters '' and is written using the same  वर्ण  as  the  Chinese hanzi (  )   .
John R Williams ( May 4 , 1782 – October 20 , 1854 ) was  an  American soldier , merchant , and politician  जो  is most well known for serving as the  पहला  mayor of Detroit  ,  Michigan .
in  total  ,   he   परोसा  as  डेट्रॉयट   's  mayor for five other terms .
He also was a brigadier general  in   the  United  राज्य  Army during the  ब्लैक   हॉक  War  .
A simple dry magnetic portable  कम्पास  .
A smartphone that can be used as a compass because of the  magnetometer  inside .
An iPhone that can be used as a geological compass  क्युकी  of the 3-axis teslameter  और   3-axis   accelerometer  inside  it
a  military compass that was  प्रयुक्त  during World  युद्ध   i   .
a  compass is a navigational  यंत्र   कि   shows  directions in a frame of reference that is stationary relative to  the   सतह  of the earth .
The frame of  सन्दर्भ  defines the four  कार्डिनल   दिशानिर्देश  ( or points ) – north , south , east , and  वेस्ट  .
Intermediate directions are also defined .
प्रायः   ,   a  diagram called a compass  रोज़   ,  which shows  the  directions (  साथ   उनके  names  प्रायः  abbreviated to initials )  ,  is marked on the compass  .
When the compass is in  उपयोग   ,   the  rose is aligned with the real directions in the frame of reference , so ,  लिये  example ,  the  `` N ''  चिह्नित  on  the  rose really  अंक   to  the north .
अक्सर  ,  in  addition to the rose or sometimes instead of  it  , angle  markings  in degrees are shown on the compass .
उत्तर   corresponds  to  शून्य  degrees , and the angles increase clockwise  ,   so  east  is  90 degrees , south is 180 , and west  is  270 .
These numbers allow the compass to show  azimuths  or bearings ,  जिससे  are commonly stated in this notation .
The magnetic  कम्पास  was first invented as a device for divination as early as the Chinese Han Dynasty (  चूंकि  about 206 BC ) .
The compass was used in Song Dynasty China by  the  military for navigational  orienteering  by 1040-1044 , and was used for maritime  नेविगेशन  by 1111 to 1117 .
The use of a  कम्पास  is recorded in Western Europe between 1187  और  1202 , and in Persia  in  1232 .
The dry compass  थी  invented in Europe  around   1300  .
This  थी  supplanted in the early 20th  सदी  by the liquid-filled magnetic compass .
The Inca Empire or Inka Empire ( Quechua : Tawantinsuyu ) was the  largest  empire in pre-Columbian America .
the  administrative , political and military center of the  साम्राज्य   थी  located in Cusco in  modern-day  Peru .
the  Inca civilization  arose  from the highlands of  पेरू   sometime  in  the  early 13th century  .
From 1438 to  1533  , the Incas used a variety  of  methods , from conquest to peaceful assimilation  ,  to incorporate a large portion of western South America  ,  centered  on  the Andean mountain ranges , including , besides Peru , large parts  of  modern Ecuador , western and south central Bolivia ,  उत्तरपश्चिम  Argentina , north and central Chile  ,  and southern Colombia into a state  comparable  to the  ऐतिहासिक   empires  of Eurasia .
The official language of  the  empire was Quechua , although hundreds of local  भाषाएं  and dialects of Quechua were spoken .
The Inca referred to their  साम्राज्य  as Tawantinsuyu which can  be  translated as The Four Regions or  the  Four United Provinces .
वहीँ   यहूद  many local forms of worship , most of them  concerning  local sacred `` Huacas ``  ,   लकिन  the Inca leadership  प्रोत्साहित  the  इबादत   of  Inti —the  सूर्य  god—and imposed its sovereignty above other cults such as  कि   of  Pachamama .
The Incas considered their  किंग  , the Sapa Inca , to be the `` child of the sun . ''
The  गुर्दे  are organs that  serve  several essential regulatory  भूमिकाएँ  in most animals ,  सहित  vertebrates and some  invertebrates  .
They are essential in the urinary system and  भी  serve homeostatic functions such  as  the regulation of electrolytes , maintenance of acid–base balance , and  विनियमन  of blood pressure (  via  maintaining salt  और  water  संतुलन  ) .
They serve the body  as  a  प्राकृतिक  filter of the blood , and remove wastes which are diverted to the urinary bladder .
In producing urine , the kidneys excrete  wastes  such as urea and ammonium , and they are  भी  responsible  लिये  the reabsorption of  जल  , glucose , and  अमीनो  acids .
The kidneys also produce hormones  सहित   calcitriol   ,  erythropoietin , and the enzyme renin .
Located at the rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneum  ,  the kidneys receive blood  इससे  the  युग्म   renal  arteries , and drain into the paired  renal  veins .
Each kidney excretes urine into  a   ureter  , itself a  युग्म  structure that empties into the urinary  ब्लैडर   .
Renal physiology is the study of  गुर्दा  function , while  nephrology  is  the  medical  specialty  concerned with kidney diseases .
Diseases of the kidney are diverse , but individuals with kidney disease frequently display characteristic  नैदानिक  features  .
आम  clinical conditions involving the  गुर्दा  include  the  nephritic and nephrotic syndromes , renal cysts , acute kidney injury ,  दीर्घकालिक  kidney disease ,  urinary   ट्रैक्ट  infection , nephrolithiasis ,  और  urinary tract obstruction .
विभिन्न  cancers  of  the kidney  मौजूद  ; the  सबसे  common  वयस्क  renal cancer  is  renal  कोशिका  carcinoma .
Cancers , cysts  ,  and some other renal conditions can be managed  साथ   हटाना  of  the   गुर्दा  , or nephrectomy .
When renal function , measured by  glomerular  filtration rate , is persistently poor , dialysis and kidney transplantation may be treatment options  .
Although they are not severely harmful , kidney stones can be painful  और   a   nuisance  .
the  removal  of  kidney  पत्थरों  involves ultrasound treatment  to   ब्रेक  up the stones into smaller pieces , which are then  passed  through the urinary  ट्रैक्ट  .
One common symptom of  गुर्दा   पत्थरों  is a  शार्प  pain in the  medial/lateral  segments of the lower back  .
Lockton  कंपनियाँ  Inc. is  the  world 's largest privately held insurance brokerage firm , providing insurance ,  रिस्क   प्रबन्धन  and employee benefits solutions .
in   जोड  to its  कान्सास  City , Missouri  मुख्यालय  , Lockton  operates  60 locations in 17 countries  .
lockton   is  currently home to more than 4,450  शरीक  worldwide .
The company was  संस्थापित  by Jack  lockton  in  1966   और  has since become the world’s 9th largest  बीमे  brokerage firm .
Lockton  serves  a wide array of industries with  सेवाएं  that  शामिल  risk management , casualty , surety , professional indemnity and more  .
For 46  सालो  ,  lockton  posted extraordinary organic growth  ,  with global revenues reaching $ 915 million in fiscal 2012  .
Lockton  लाभ  Group : Lockton’s Employee Benefit’s team works closely with insurance carriers and administrators to create comprehensive and integrated benefits strategies for clients .
The Lockton Benefits Group provides services including compliance , executive benefits ,  स्वास्थ्य  and welfare , health  रिस्क  solutions , retirement and more .
Lockton Affinity : Lockton Affinity ,  an  affiliate of Lockton Companies , meets the  बीमे  needs of  अपनापन  groups ,  franchises   ,  professional organizations , and  एसोसिएशन  of all  आकार  .
Lockton Affinity offers  a  variety of insurance product options  और  programs .
Products include : General Liability  ,  Professional  देयता  ,  प्रॉपर्टी  , Workers Compensation  ,  Directors & Officers Liability , Commercial Auto , Specialty Coverage  ,  Excess  ,  Health Plans and more .
Lockton International : Lockton  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   operates  offices in the UK  और  Ireland , as well as offices throughout Asia  और  Latin America  .
in  Europe , Lockton International is a partner in EOS RISQ , Europe’s leading  बीमे  broking and risk management consultancy  .
EOS RISQ  is  an equity-based European  साझेदारी  of major independent insurance brokers with over  3,500  employees based in more than 30  देशों   in  Europe .
Lockton International provides  specialized  solutions for personal lines , SME’s  और  major multi-national  क्लाइंट   .
White chocolate is a  चॉकलेट  derivative .
It  commonly   consists  of cocoa butter , sugar , milk solids and salt , and  is  characterized by a  पाले  yellow or ivory  रूप  .
The melting point of cocoa  मक्खन  , its primary cocoa bean component , is  ऊँची  enough to keep white chocolate solid  at  room temperature .
Donald Leon `` Don '' Blankenship  (   born  March 14 , 1950  )  was  अध्यक्ष   और  CEO of Massey Energy Co.  ,  the sixth largest coal company (  by  2008 production ) in the United States .
He  परोसा  in those  भूमिकाएँ  from November 30 , 2000 , until  दिसम्बर   31  ,  2010  .
Blankenship is an active financial backer  of  the  रिपब्लिकन  party and participant  in  local and state  राजनीती   ,   विशेषकर  in his home  राज्य   of  West Virginia  .
He has frequently spoken out publicly about politics , the environment , unions , and coal production .
u.S.  Securities and  एक्सचेंज  Commission filings show Blankenship  थी  paid $ 17.8 million  in   2009  , the highest in the  कोयले  industry .
His 2009 pay represents a $ 6.8 million  उठाएँ   over   2008  and almost double his  मुआवजे   पैकेज  in 2007 .
Blankenship  भी  received a deferred compensation package  valued  at $ 27.2 million  in  2009 .
On December 3 , 2010 , Blankenship announced that he  थी  retiring  as  CEO at the end of the year , and would be succeeded by Massey President Baxter F. Phillips  jr  .
धनुष  Wow is  एक  of the transcriptions  प्रयुक्त  in English to describe a dog 's  छाल  .
धनुष  Wow  may  also refer to:
Bow Wow ( band ) ,  a  Japanese hard rock/heavy metal band
Bow Wow  (  rapper ) ,  an  American rapper and actor
Bow Wow Sauce , a sauce  विकसित   in  the  cotswolds   प्रदेश  of  इंग्लैण्ड
Bow Wow Wow , a UK new wave band
``  Bow  wow  '' , a  सोंग   by  The Fiery  furnaces  from their 2003  एल्बम  Gallowsbird 's Bark
``  धनुष   wow  Blues  (  My Mama  दावत  Me like a Dog  )  '' , a  सोंग  composed in the 1920s by Cliff Friend & Nat Osborne
Negligence ( Lat  .  negligentia , from neglegere , to  उपेक्षा  , literally `` not to pick up something ''  )   is  a failure to exercise the care that a  reasonably  prudent person would  कसरत  in like circumstances .
The area of  अपकृत्य  law known as negligence involves  नुक़सान  caused  by   carelessness   ,  not intentional harm .
According to Jay M. Feinman of the  rutgers   विश्वविद्यालयों  School of Law ;
`` The core idea  of  negligence is that  लोगों  should exercise reasonable care  जब  they act by  लेने  account of the potential harm that they might  foreseeably  cause harm to other people . ''
`` those  जो  go personally or bring property where they know that they or  it  may come into collision with the persons or property of others have  by  law  a  duty cast  upon  them  to   उपयोग   उचित  care and skill to  avoid  such a collision . ''
Fletcher  v  Rylands ( [ 1866 ] LR 1 Ex 265 )
Through civil litigation  ,  if  an  injured person proves that another person acted negligently  to  cause their  चोट  ,  वे   can  recover damages to compensate  लिये  their harm .
Proving a  मामला  for negligence can potentially  entitle   the  injured plaintiff to compensation for harm to  उनके   देह  , property , mental well-being , financial status , or intimate relationships .
However , because negligence cases are very  fact-specific  , this general definition does not  fully  explain  the  concept of  जब  the law will require one  व्यक्ति  to compensate another for  नुकसान  caused by  आकस्मिक  injury .
Further , the law of negligence at common law is only one aspect  of  the law of  देयता   .
Although resulting damages must be proven in order to recover compensation  in   a  negligence action , the nature and extent of  those  damages are not the primary  फ़ोकस   of  negligence cases  .
A melanocytic nevus (  भी  known as `` Nevocytic  nevus  '' ) is a type of lesion that contains nevus cells ( a  प्रकार  of melanocyte ) .
Some  स्त्रोत  equate the term mole with ``  melanocytic  nevus '' .
Other  स्त्रोत  reserve the term `` mole '' for other purposes .
The  बहुमत   of  moles appear  दौरान  the  पहला   दो  decades of  a  person’s  जीवन  ,  जबकि  about one in  प्रत्येक  100 babies is born with moles  .
Acquired moles are  a  form of benign neoplasm , while congenital moles , or  जन्मजात  nevi , are considered  a  minor malformation or hamartoma and may be at  a  higher risk for melanoma .
A mole  can  be either subdermal ( under the skin ) or a pigmented growth  on  the skin , formed mostly of a  प्रकार   of  cell  ज्ञात  as a melanocyte .
The high concentration of the body’s pigmenting agent  ,  melanin , is responsible  लिये   उनके  dark  रंग  .
Moles are  a  member of the family of skin  lesions  known  as   nevi  .
The  व्यापक  metabolic panel  ,  or chemical screen  ,  ( CMP ;  cpt  code 80053 ) is a panel of 14 blood tests  जिससे  serves as an  आरंभिक  broad  चिकित्सा  screening  औजार  .
The CMP  provides  a rough check of kidney  फलन  , liver function ,  और  electrolyte and  द्रव   संतुलन   ,  but it is far from perfect .
Abnormal values from a CBC  may  be a result  of   गलत  positives  और  thus  the  CBC may  need  to be repeated for a  रोगी  ( or replaced with a more specific  परीक्षण  ) .
The CMP  is  an expanded version  of  the basic metabolic panel ( BMP ) , which does  नहीं  include  जिगर  tests .
A  cmp  ( or BMP ) can  be  ordered as part of  a  routine physical examination  ,  or may be used  to  monitor a patient with a chronic disease  ,   ऐसे  as  मधुमेह  mellitus or hypertension .
Previous  names  for the panel of  परीक्षण  have been Chem 12 , Chemistry panel ,  रसायन   स्क्रीन  , SMA 12 ,  sma  20 and SMAC  (   sequential  Multiple Analysis - Computer  )  .
the  tests are performed on machines based on the AutoAnalyzer invented in 1957 .
Natural gas extraction by countries in  घन  meters per  साल  .
Natural gas is a naturally occurring  हाइड्रोकार्बन  gas mixture consisting primarily  of  methane  ,   लकिन  commonly including varying amounts  of   अन्य   hydrocarbons  , carbon dioxide , nitrogen , and hydrogen sulfide  .
Natural gas is an energy  सोर्स  often  प्रयुक्त  for  हीटिंग  , cooking , and electricity generation .
It is also used  as  fuel for vehicles and as a chemical  फर्टिलाइजर  in the manufacture of plastics and other  commercially  important organic chemicals .
Natural gas is found in deep  भूमिगत   प्राकृतिक  rock formations or  संबद्ध  with other hydrocarbon reservoirs in coal beds  और  as methane  clathrates   .
Petroleum  is  also another resource found in  निकटता  to and with natural gas .
सबसे  natural gas was created over time by two mechanisms : biogenic and thermogenic .
Biogenic gas is created by methanogenic organisms in marshes  ,  bogs , landfills  ,  and shallow sediments  .
Deeper  in  the earth , at  वृहद  temperature  और  pressure , thermogenic gas is created from  दफ्न  organic  सामग्री  .
Before natural gas can  be  used as a fuel  ,  it must  undergo  processing to remove impurities  ,  including water , to meet  the  specifications of marketable natural gas .
The by-products of  प्रसंस्करण  include ethane , propane , butanes  ,  pentanes , and higher  आणविक  weight hydrocarbons , hydrogen sulfide ( which may  be  converted into pure sulfur ) , carbon dioxide , water  वाष्प  ,  और  sometimes  हीलियम  and nitrogen .
प्राकृतिक  gas is often  informally  referred to simply as gas , especially when compared to other energy sources such  as  oil or  कोयले  .
This page is about the  कल्पना  Movers band  .
For information  परिचय  the TV show starring the band , see Imagination Movers (  tv  series ) .
कल्पना  Movers  is  a band  formed  in  नई  Orleans , Louisiana , in 2003 .
The lineup  शामिल  Rich Collins  ,   स्कॉट   durbin  , Dave Poche , and Scott  ``  Smitty '' Smith .
Members of the group were longtime  मित्रों  and  पड़ोसी  .
the  group started as a television/music concept which was pitched to  लोकल   pbs  affiliates in  नई  Orleans .
WLAE-TV was the first to take an interest in the group and later introduced  उन्हें  to Beth Courtney , the President  &  Chief  कार्यपालिका  Officer at Louisiana Public Broadcasting .
Soon after , LPB  began  airing one-minute  वीडियो  produced by the Imagination Movers themselves .
The Movers built  a  sizable  क्षेत्रीय  following by setting educational songs for kids to melodies and  लय  that adults appreciate  as  well .
वे  sold more than 100,000 copies of their  self-produced  CDs and DVDs .
Their three indie CDs  :  `` Good  विचार  , '' `` Calling All  मूवर्स  , '' and `` Eight Feet ''  साथ  with their grass  जड़ें  DVD `` Stir It Up '' have , combined , won fourteen national awards , from such groups as the National Association of Parenting Publications  (  NAPPA  )  and Parents  '  Choice .
In early 2005 , Disney took notice  ,  and  initiated  negotiations  to  add  the  Movers to  the  company 's  रोस्टर  .
These were interrupted in August when the flood protection  designed  and built by the Army Corps of Engineers to protect New Orleans failed .
The resulting  floodwater  claimed the band 's office , as well as the  घरों  of  कॉलिन्स  , Durbin and Poche  –   लकिन  the deal was signed in  the   वसन्त  of  2006  .
In 2008 ,  वॉल्ट  Disney Records  introduced   the   कल्पना  Movers  '  music to the nation  साथ  the release of  the   मूवर्स  ' first nationally-released CD ,  ``  Juice Box  नायक  .  ''
In September  2008  , a 30-minute show  featuring  the  समूह  began airing on  the   डिज़्नी   चैनल   's  preschool programming block known as Playhouse Disney ,  और  currently airs on Playhouse  डिज़्नी  's replacement , Disney Junior .
The Movers write and  perform  all  the   गीतों  on their show .
Moreover , the Imagination Movers have received critical kudos for their live  कॉन्सर्ट  performances  .
in  October  2009   ,  the Imagination Movers started the ``  सजीव  from the  विचार   गोदाम  Concert Tour  2009  '' .
Traveling from  mid-october  to mid-December  2009  their live performances include lots of their favorite songs and  नाचना  ,  as   खूब  as video appearances of Warehouse Mouse .
Beginning in early-February 2011 and  wrapping  up  in  late May  2011   ,  the  कल्पना  Movers presented their ``  in   a  Big Warehouse Concert Tour , '' playing more  than  100 shows in 50+ cities across North America .
From  कूच  to October 2012 , the Imagination Movers toured North America on their post-Disney  ``   rock-o-matic  '' tour .
The show maintained several elements of the  असली  TV  अवधारणा  , such as an on-stage `` idea emergency '' and several sets from their older  कैटलॉग  ;  however  ,  साथ  the  प्रस्थान  of Wendy Calio  वापस  to her native Hawaii , the  अक्षर  ``  नीना  ''  ,  along with her musical numbers  ,  is  नहीं  present .
The  दौरे   promotes  the Imagination Movers '  नई  album/DVD release , `` Rock-O-Matic '' , which  सुविधाएँ  all new music from the  बैंड  .
The album itself  is  produced independently of  डिज़्नी   और  has a notably more mature  ,  contemporary rock-and-roll sound , though  स्टिल  very  उचित   लिये  children  .
Several performance dates were moved to  बाद  in 2012 to benefit from the increased  एक्सपोज़र  of the Imagination Movers  tv  show now  playing  daily  on   डिज़्नी  Junior .
The platypus ( Ornithorhynchus  anatinus  ) is a semiaquatic mammal endemic  to  eastern Australia , including Tasmania .
Together with the four species of echidna ,  it  is one of the  पाँच  extant  प्रजाति  of monotremes  ,  the only mammals that lay  अंडे  instead  of  giving  जनम  .
It is the sole living representative of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ) , though a number of related species have been  मिला   in  the fossil record .
the  unusual appearance  of  this egg-laying , duck -billed  ,  beaver -tailed ,  otter   -footed  mammal baffled European naturalists when they first encountered it  ,  with some considering it  an   विस्तृत  fraud  .
It is one  of  the few venomous mammals , the male  platypus  having a spur on the hind foot that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans .
The unique features of the platypus make it an important  विषय  in the study of evolutionary biology and a  recognisable  and  iconic  symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as  a  mascot  at  national events and is featured  on  the reverse of its  20-cent  coin .
The platypus is the animal  emblem  of the state of New South  वेल्स  .
Until the early 20th century , it was hunted  लिये  its  फर  , but it is now protected  throughout  its range .
Although captive  प्रजनन  programmes have  था  only limited  कामयाबी  and the  platypus  is vulnerable to the effects of pollution  ,  it is not  अंतर्गत  any immediate threat .
the   chupacabra  or Chupacabras ( ,  इससे   chupar  ``  to   चूस  '' and cabra `` goat ''  ,  literally  ``  goat sucker '' )  is  a legendary  cryptid   rumored  to inhabit parts of the Americas .
It is associated more  recently   साथ  sightings of an allegedly unknown animal in Puerto Rico ( where these sightings  यहूद  first reported ) ,  मैक्सिको  , and the  संयुक्त  States  ,  especially in the  latter  's Latin American communities .
The name  आता   इससे  the animal 's reported habit of attacking and drinking the blood of livestock , especially  बकरियों  .
Physical descriptions of  the  creature vary .
Eyewitness sightings have been claimed as  जल्दी  as 1995 in Puerto Rico  ,   और  have since  महरूम   reported  as far  उत्तर  as Maine ,  और  as far south as Chile , and even being spotted outside the Americas in countries  जैसे  Russia and The Philippines .
It  is   माना  a heavy creature , the  आकार  of a  छोटी  bear ,  साथ   a   पंक्ति  of spines reaching  इससे   the   गर्दन  to the  आधार   of  the tail .
Sighting reports of the Chupacabra have  महरूम  disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking evidence , while most reports  in  northern  मैक्सिको  and the  दक्षिणी  United States have been verified  as  canids  afflicted   by   mange  .
biologists  and wildlife management officials view the  chupacabra  as a contemporary legend .
the  North  अमरीकी  Free Trade Agreement  (  NAFTA ) is an agreement signed by Canada  ,  Mexico , and the United  राज्य  , creating a trilateral trade bloc in North America .
The agreement came into force on January  1  , 1994 .
It superseded the  canada–united  States  फ़्री  Trade Agreement  between  the U.S. , Canada , and  मैक्सिको
NAFTA has two  पूरक  : the North American Agreement on Environmental Cooperation  (  NAAEC ) and the  उत्तर  American Agreement on Labor Cooperation  (   naalc  ) .
Thermal comfort is  the  condition of mind that expresses  संतोष  with the thermal environment and is assessed by subjective evaluation  (   ansi  /  ashrae  Standard 55 ) .
Maintaining this standard of  थर्मल  comfort for occupants of buildings or other enclosures is  एक  of the important goals of HVAC  (  heating  ,  ventilation , and air conditioning  )  design engineers .
The Predicted Mean Vote ( PMV ) model stands among  the  most recognized thermal comfort models .
It was developed  using  principles of heat balance  और   प्रायोगिक   आंकड़ा  collected in a  नियंत्रित  climate chamber under steady state conditions .
क्युकी   the  PMV model  थी  derived from data collected  in   a  controlled climate , it is not suitable  लिये   अनुप्रयोग   in  naturally ventilated spaces  जिससे  often  have  high levels of air movement .
This shortcoming motivated the development of a family of  अनुभवजन्य  statistical  मॉडल  of thermal  सुकून  in naturally ventilated spaces known as  अनुकूली  models .
Adaptive models  of  thermal comfort consider occupants as  dynamically  interacting with  उनके  environment , and controlling their thermal comfort by means of  कपडे  or window-opening  और   closing  .
इस  is  in   कंट्रास्ट  to thermal comfort in  sealed  buildings , in which occupants experience the environment passively  .
Thermal comfort is affected by heat conduction  ,  convection ,  विकिरण  ,  और  evaporative  ऊष्मा  loss .
थर्मल  comfort  is  maintained when the heat generated by human metabolism  is  allowed to dissipate  ,  thus  maintaining  thermal equilibrium with  the  surroundings .
It has been long recognized that the sensation of feeling hot or cold is  नहीं  just dependent on  एयर  temperature alone .
Thermal comfort calculations according to ANSI/ASHRAE Standard  55  can be freely performed with the CBE Thermal  सुकून  Tool for ASHRAE-55 .
Durante degli Alighieri , simply referred to as Dante  (  ,  ;  ; c. 1265–1321 ) , was a major Italian poet of  the  Middle Ages  .
His Divine Comedy , originally called ' and later called ' by Boccaccio , is widely considered  the  greatest literary work composed in  the  Italian language and  a   कलाकृति  of world literature .
In Italy he  is  known as ' ( `` the  परम्  Poet ''  )  or just ' .
He , Petrarch and Boccaccio  हैं  also known as `` the three fountains ''  or  `` the three crowns '' .
Dante  is  also called the  ``  Father of the Italian language '' .
Headquarters ( Kobe , Japan )
(   )  is a tire and rubber company based  in  Japan  .
It is part of the Sumitomo Group .
the  company  traces  its origins to 1909 , when the Sumitomo Group  बना  an investment in Dunlop  जापानी  , the newly formed Japanese subsidiary of the British  कम्पनी  Dunlop  रबर  .
Over the years Sumitomo and Dunlop developed  a  close business relationship , and in 1963 the  sumitomo  Group acquired  कंट्रोल  of Dunlop Japan and renamed it Sumitomo  रबर  Industries Ltd .
In 1985 , when Dunlop Rubber  थी   लिया  over by  btr   पीएलसी  , the company acquired the automobile tire  एसेट   of  Dunlop , including the right  to  use the Dunlop brand on automobile tires .
the  acquisition did not include the US  और  Australian businesses ,  जिससे   यहूद  separately owned , but in 1986  sumitomo  also acquired the Dunlop Tire Corporation of the US from its management .
In 1997 , Sumitomo formed a  संयुक्त  venture with Goodyear Tire and  रबर  Company , by which  goodyear  and Sumitomo agreed to manufacture tires  लिये  each other 's markets , including Dunlop branded tires .
As part of the agreement ,  goodyear  acquired  75  % interests  in  Dunlop Tyres , the UK company which Sumitomo had formed  ,   और  in Dunlop Tire Corporation .
Goodyear and Sumitomo also made investments in  प्रत्येक   अन्य  .
Today , the company  makes  a wide range of rubber based products ,  सहित  automobile tires , golf balls and tennis balls .
microsoft  Visual Studio Express is a  नियत  of freeware integrated development environments ( IDE ) developed by  microsoft  that are lightweight versions  of  the Microsoft Visual  स्टुडियो  product line .
Express Editions  यहूद  conceived beginning with Visual Studio 2005 .
The idea of  एक्स्प्रेस  editions is to provide streamlined  ,  easy-to-use and easy-to-learn  ides  for users other than professional  तन्त्र  developers  ,   ऐसे  as hobbyists and students .
The Alps are one  of   the  great mountain range systems of Europe stretching approximately  आरपार  eight Alpine countries  इससे  Austria and Slovenia in  the  east , Switzerland ,  liechtenstein   ,  Germany , France to the west and Italy and Monaco to the south .
the  mountains were  formed  over  सैंकड़ों   of  millions of  सालो  as the  अफ़्रीकी  and Eurasian tectonic  प्लेटों  collided .
Extreme shortening  caused  by the  इवेंट  resulted in marine sedimentary rocks rising by thrusting and folding into high mountain peaks such as Mont Blanc  और   the  Matterhorn .
Mont Blanc spans the French–Italian border , and at is the highest mountain in  the  Alps .
The Alpine region  क्षेत्रफल   contains  many peaks higher than , known as the `` four-thousanders  ``  .
The altitude  और  size of the range affects the climate in Europe ; in  the  mountains precipitation  स्तर  vary greatly  और  climatic conditions consist of distinct zones .
Wildlife such  as  ibex live  in  the higher peaks to elevations  of  ,  और  plants such as Edelweiss grow in rocky areas in lower elevations  as   खूब  as in higher elevations  .
Evidence  of   इंसान  habitation in the Alps goes back to the Paleolithic era .
A mummified man  ,  determined to  be  5,000 years old , was discovered on  a  glacier at the Austrian–Italian border in  1991  .
by  the 6th century  bc  , the  सेल्टिक  La Tène  संस्कृति  was well established .
Hannibal may have crossed  the  Alps with a herd of elephants ,  और  the Romans had settlements in the region  .
In 1800 Napoleon crossed one of the mountain passes  साथ  an army of 40,000  .
The 18th and  19th   सदियां  saw an  influx  of naturalists ,  लेखक  , and  कलाकारों  , in  particular   the  Romantics , followed  by  the  सुनहरी   आयु  of  alpinism  as mountaineers  began  to  ascend  the  चोटियों   .
In World War II the Third  reich   invaded  the Alpine  देशों   ,   साथ   the   एक्सेप्शन  of  स्विट्ज़रलैंड   और  Liechtenstein ; Adolf Hitler kept a  आधार  of operation  in  the Bavarian Alps throughout the  युद्ध  .
The Alpine region  रै  a strong cultural identity .
the  traditional culture of  खेती  , cheesemaking ,  और   woodworking  still exists in Alpine  गांवों  , although the tourist industry began to  grow  early in the 20th century  और  expanded greatly  बाद  World War II  to  become the dominant industry by the end of the century .
The Winter Olympic Games have been hosted in  the  Swiss , French  ,   इतालवी  ,  आस्ट्रिया  and German Alps .
At present the region is home to 14 million people and has  120  million annual visitors .
Lois Patrice Griffin ( née  pewterschmidt  ) is a character from the animated television  श्रेणी  Family  guy  .
She is voiced by writer Alex  borstein  and first appeared on television , along with the rest of the family in the 15-minute short on December 20  ,  1998 .
Lois was created  और  designed by series creator Seth MacFarlane .
macfarlane  was asked to pitch a pilot  to  the Fox  प्रसारण   कम्पनी   आधारित  on Larry and Steve , a short made by  macfarlane  which featured a middle-aged character named  लैरी   और  an intellectual dog , Steve .
After the pilot was  दिए  the green light ,  the  Griffin  परिवार  appeared  on  the  एपीसोड  ``  मौत  Has a Shadow  ``  .
Lois is the mother of the Griffin family .
With her husband Peter , she has had three children :  मेग  , Chris , and Stewie .
लोइस   is  often portrayed  as  a stereotypical television mother , despite her admitting to  होने  a drug  उपयोक्ता  ,  a   recovering  meth addict kleptomaniac .
Lois has  भी  had several affairs , one  of   जिससे  allegedly resulted in the conception of Meg .
वो  has appeared in other media relating to  परिवार  Guy—including a video game , commercials and books—and inspired an entire line of merchandise  .
Lois  's  distinctive New York accent originated from  a   अक्षर   in  a stage show  कि  Alex Borstein had performed  in   ,  which  थी  largely inspired by a relative who grew up  on  Long  द्वीप  , New York .
Family transmission of  बास्क  language ( Basque  as  initial language )
Percentage of students registered  in  Basque language schools ( 2000–2005 ) .
Location of the Basque-language provinces within  स्पेन  and France
बास्क  ( endonym : , ) is  the  ancestral language of the Basque people  ,  who inhabit the  बास्क  Country  ,  a region spanning an  क्षेत्रफल   in  northeastern Spain and  southwestern  France .
It is spoken by  27  % of Basques in all territories  (  714,136 out of 2,648,998 )  .
Of these , 663,035 live  in  the Spanish part  of  the Basque country and the remaining 51,100 live in the French  भाग  .
In academic discussions of the distribution of Basque  in   स्पेन   और  France , it is customary  to  refer  to   तीन  ancient provinces in  फ़्रांस  and four Spanish provinces .
Native speakers are concentrated in  a  contiguous area including parts of  the  Spanish  autonomous  communities  of  the Basque Country and Navarre  और  in  the  western half  of  the French département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques .
The Basque Autonomous Community is an administrative entity within the binational ethnographic Basque Country incorporating the  परंपरागत  Spanish provinces of Biscay , Gipuzkoa , and  álava  , which retain their existence as politico-administrative divisions  .
ये  provinces  और   अनेक  areas of Navarre  हैं   heavily  populated by ethnic Basques , but  बास्क  was , at least until the 1990s ,  नहीं   बोला  as a native  भाषा  in most of  álava  , western parts of Biscay and  सेंट्रल  and southern  क्षेत्रों   of  Navarre , either because it had been replaced by Spanish along the  सदियां  , in some areas ,  or  because it had never  महरूम  spoken there  ,  in  अन्य  areas .
In southwestern France , the ancient  basque-populated   प्रांतों   यहूद   labourd  , Lower Navarre ,  और  Soule .
They and other regions were  संचित  into a single département in 1790 under the  नाम   basses-pyrénées  , a name which persisted until  1970   .
A standardized form of the Basque language , called  euskara  Batua ,  थी  developed by the Basque Language  अकादमी  in  the  late 1960s .
Euskara Batua was created so  कि  Basque language could  be  used—and easily understood by  सब   बास्क   speakers—in  formal situations ( education , mass media , literature  )  , and  इस  is its main use today  .
The role of this standard  बास्क  language depends on the linguistic educational model  of  each  प्रदेश   और  each school .
In most  क्षेत्रों   of  the Spanish Basque  देश  ,  the   शैक्षणिक  Model D  ,   जहाँ  all subjects  हैं  taught in Basque ,  मगर  `` Spanish  भाषा  and literature  ''  (  जिससे  is taught in Spanish  )  is  अभी   the  predominant model .
In France , the Basque language school  seaska  and the association for a bilingual ( Basque and French ) schooling Ikasbi meet a wide range of Basque language educational needs  up   to  the Sixth Form , while often  struggling  to surmount financial and administrative constraints .
Apart from this  मानकीकृत  version , there are  पाँच  main  बास्क  dialects  :  Bizkaian ,  gipuzkoan  , and Upper Navarrese in  स्पेन   ,  and Navarrese–Lapurdian and Zuberoan ( in France ) .
Although they take their names from the mentioned historic provinces , the dialect  सीमाएँ   हैं  not congruent  साथ  province boundaries  .
The President , Directors and Company , of the Bank of the United  राज्य   ,  commonly known  as  the First Bank of the United States , was  a  central bank  ,  chartered for  a  term of twenty  सालो   ,  by the United States Congress on February 25  ,  1791  .
Establishment of the Bank was included  in   a   three-part   विस्तार  of federal fiscal and  मौद्रिक  power ( along with a federal  मिंट   और   excise  taxes  )  championed by  सिकंदर  Hamilton  ,  first Secretary of the Treasury  .
Hamilton believed a central bank was necessary to stabilize and  improve  the  स्वदेश   's  credit , and  to  improve handling of the financial business of  the  United States government under the newly enacted Constitution .
Officially proposed to the first session of the First  कॉंग्रेस  in 1790 , Hamilton 's Bank faced widespread resistance from opponents of  increased  federal power .
Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson and James Madison  led   the  opposition , which claimed  कि  the bank was unconstitutional , and that it benefited merchants and  निवेशकों  at the expense of the majority of the  जनसांख्यिकी  .
The First Bank  भवन  is now a National Historic Landmark located  in  Philadelphia , Pennsylvania within Independence National Historical Park .
James Wesley Marsters (  born  August 20 , 1962 ) is an American actor and musician .
Marsters first  आए  to the attention of the  सामान्य  public playing the popular character Spike , a  platinum-blond  yobbish English vampire in the television  श्रेणी  Buffy the  पिशाच   slayer  and its  spin-off  series , Angel , from 1997 to 2004 .
Since  तब  ,  he  has gone  on  to play other  विज्ञान  fiction roles , such as the alien supervillain  brainiac   on   the  Superman -inspired series  smallville  ,  the  omnisexual time traveller Captain  जॉन   हार्ट  in British science-fiction  दिखाएँ  Torchwood  और  terrorist Barnabas Greeley in Sci  fi  's  caprica  .
Marsters  appeared  in a supporting  भूमिका  in the 2007  फिल्म  P.S .
I Love You and as the main antagonist  ,  Piccolo ,  in  the 2009 fantasy adventure film Dragonball Evolution .
he  appeared as a recurring character  in  the first season of  the  revival of Hawaii  5-0  .
In molecular biology ,  इंसान   chorionic  gonadotropin  (  hCG ) is a hormone produced by the  निषेचित  egg  बाद  conception  .
Later  दौरान   गर्भावस्था  it is made by the developing placenta , and later  by  the  placental  component syncytiotrophoblast .
कुछ   cancerous   tumors   उपज   इस  hormone ; therefore , elevated levels measured when  the  patient is not  गर्भवती  can lead to a cancer diagnosis .
However , it is not known whether this production  is  a  contributing  cause or an effect of tumorigenesis .
The pituitary analogue of hCG , known as luteinizing hormone ( LH ) , is produced in the pituitary gland of  males   और   महिलाओं  of  सब  ages .
, the FDA has  निषिद्ध  the sale  of  `` homeopathic '' and  over  the counter hCG diet products and declared them  बेईमान  and  illegal   .
Beyoncé Giselle  knowles-carter   ,   ज्ञात  by  उसके  stage name Beyoncé  (   ;  born September  4  , 1981 ) , is an American singer  ,  songwriter , dancer  ,  and actress .
Born and  उठाया   in  Houston  ,  Texas , she performed in singing and dancing competitions as a child  पहले  forming in 1990 a group with  केली  Rowland and LaTavia Roberson that was eventually named Destiny 's Child  .
एकबार  signed to Columbia  रिकॉर्ड  ,  the  girls subsequently became one of the  संसार  's  best-selling   लड़की  groups of all time .
The  समूह   थी  plagued by internal  विरोध  and legal turmoil and Knowles suffered from depression that  lasted  for a number of  सालो  .
During the group 's hiatus ,  नॉलेस  released her debut solo album Dangerously in  प्रेम  (  2003   )  , which earned her five Grammy Awards and has sold a total of  4.9  million  नक़ल  in the US alone .
it  spawned Billboard  क्रमांक  one singles `` Crazy in  प्रेम  , '' considered by VH1 to be the  ``  Greatest Song Of the 00 's , '' and ``  baby  Boy  .  ''
Following the disbandment of Destiny  's  Child  in   2005  , Knowles 's second solo album B'Day ( 2006  )  contained the top  पाँच  singles  ``  Déjà Vu  ``  , `` Irreplaceable `` ,  और  `` Beautiful Liar `` .
Her performance in  dreamgirls   (  2006 ) earned her two  सुनहरी  Globe  nominations  .
Knowles ' work playing Etta James in  कि  film inspired her subsequent  एल्बम  I Am ...
Sasha  fierce  ( 2008 ) which  शाखित  hits ``  if  I  यहूद  a Boy `` , `` Single Ladies  (  Put a Ring on It  )  `` ,  ``  Halo `` , and `` Sweet Dreams `` .
the  album  भी  helped Knowles  earn  six Grammys in  2010  , breaking the record for most Grammy Awards won by a female artist in one night .
उसके  fourth album 4 ( 2011  )  deviated towards traditional R & B  और  became  उसके  fourth consecutive number  एक  album on the  बिलबोर्ड   200  .
In  जनवरी  2012 , Knowles gave birth  to   बेटी  Blue Ivy Carter ,  उसके  first child with  husband  Jay-Z .
Knowles has sold over  13  million albums  in  the US and  118  million  रिकॉर्ड  worldwide ( as well  as  a further 50 million records with  नियति  's Child ) , and is one of the best-selling  म्यूज़िक   कलाकारों  of all time .
The Recording Industry Association of America (  riaa   )  recognized  नॉलेस   as  the Top Certified Artist of  the   2000s  .
In 2009 , Billboard named  उसके  the Top Radio Songs Artist of the decade and  क्रमित  her the  शीर्ष  Female Artist and the fourth Artist of the Decade .
Beyoncé Knowles is  the  most nominated woman in Grammy Award history  ,   receiving  17 awards ;  अन्य  accolades include 12 MTV Video  म्यूज़िक   पुरस्कार  , 7  बिलबोर्ड  Awards including a Millennium Award , and a star  on  the Hollywood  चलना   of  Fame as part of Destiny 's Child .
``  एंग्री  All the Time '' is the  शीर्षक  of a  सोंग  written by Bruce Robison and first recorded on his 1998 album Wrapped .
It was later covered by Tim McGraw with guest  vocalist  Faith  हिल  .
Released in July 2001 , McGraw 's  संस्करण  was the second single from McGraw 's Set This  सर्कस  Down album .
The song  पहुँचे  Number  एक  on the  बिलबोर्ड  Hot Country Singles & Tracks  (  now  hot  Country Songs  )   चार्ट  .
Dear  जॉन  is  a  2010 American romantic drama - war  फिल्मी   अभिनीत  Amanda Seyfried and Channing Tatum .
it  was released theatrically  in  North America on February 5 , 2010 .
The film  थी  directed by Lasse Hallström , and it  is  an  अनुकूलन  of  निकोलस  Sparks 's novel  of  the same name .
It follows the life of a  सिपाही  ( Channing Tatum  )  after he falls in love with a young woman ( Amanda  seyfried  ) .
वे   decide   to  exchange letters to each other after he is deployed  to  the war .
The movie  थी  filmed in 2009 in  चार्ल्सटन  , South Carolina .
Despite  receiving  negative  समीक्षाएँ  ,  the  film made a strong box  दफ्तर  performance , knocking off  अवतार  after seven weekends in  पहला  place and grossing  a  total of $ 114,977,104 worldwide .
The film was released on  may  25 , 2010 on DVD and Blu-ray .
These are lists of the busiest airports  in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport is  the  busiest single airport in  the  United  राज्य  .
However , all of the New York  नगर  metropolitan area 's airports  combine  to  बनाएँ   the  largest airport system in the United States , second in the world in terms of passenger traffic , and first in the world in terms of total flight  परिचालन  .
Dora the  एक्सप्लोरर  is an American animated  टेलीविज़न  series created by Chris Gifford , Valerie Walsh  ,  and Eric Weiner .
Dora the  एक्सप्लोरर  became  a   नियमित  series  in  2000 .
The show is carried on the Nickelodeon cable  टेलीविज़न  network  ,  including the associated Nick Jr. channel .
It aired on CBS until September  2006  .
A Spanish-dubbed version first  aired  as part of a Nick  en  español  ब्लाक  on NBC  सार्वभौमिक   -owned   telemundo   through  September 2006 ; since April 2008  ,  this version of the  कार्यक्रम  has been carried on Univision as part of the Planeta U  ब्लाक  .
सांता  Fe ( ;  (  Tewa : Ogha  po'oge  , ) ) is the  पूंजी  of the U.S. state  of   नई  Mexico .
It is  the  fourth-largest  नगर  in the  राज्य   और  is the seat of .
सांता  Fe ( meaning “holy faith” in Spanish ) had a  जनसांख्यिकी  of  67,947   in  the  2010  census .
It is the principal city  of  a Metropolitan Statistical Area which  encompasses  all  of  Santa Fe  काउंटी  and is part of  the  larger  albuquerque-santa  Fe-Las Vegas Combined  सांख्यिकीय  Area .
The city’s  पूरा  name when founded was La Villa Real de la Santa Fé de San  फ्रांसिस्को  de Asís  (  “The  royal   कस्बा  of the Holy Faith of St. Francis of Assisi” ) .
पेप्सी  (  stylized  in lowercase as pepsi , formerly  stylized  in uppercase as  पेप्सी  ) is a carbonated soft drink that is produced  और  manufactured by PepsiCo  .
Created and  विकसित   in  1893 and introduced  as  Brad 's Drink , it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola  on  August  28  , 1898 , then to Pepsi in 1961 .
1765  broadside
The Sons  of  Liberty was a group consisting of American patriots  कि  originated  in  the  pre-independence  North American  अंग्रेजों  colonies  .
the  group was formed to protect the rights of the colonists and to take to the streets against the taxes by  the  British government  .
They are  बेहतरीन  known  लिये  undertaking the Boston Tea  पार्टी  in 1773  ,  which led to the Intolerable Acts ( an intense  crackdown  by  the  British government ) , and a counter-mobilization  by  the Patriots .
Osaka castle
is  a  नगर  in  the   कन्साई   प्रदेश  of Japan 's  प्रमुख  island of Honshu ,  a   designated   नगर  under the Local  स्वायत्तता   विधि  , the capital city of Osaka Prefecture  और  also the  largest   भाग   of   the  Keihanshin  metropolis  , which comprises three  प्रमुख  cities of Japan , Kyoto , Osaka and Kobe  .
स्तिथ   at   the  mouth of the Yodo River on Osaka Bay  ,  Osaka is Japan 's third largest  नगर  by population after Tokyo ( special  wards  ) and Yokohama .
Keihanshin is the second largest metropolitan area in Japan  by  population and one of the largest metropolitan areas highly  क्रमित   in  the  संसार  , with nearly 19 million  लोगों  ,  और  by GDP  the  second  largest  area in Japan and  the  seventh largest area in the world .
Historically  the  commercial center of Japan , Osaka functions as  एक  of the command centers for the Japanese economy .
The ratio between  दिन   और  night  समय  population is 141 % , the highest in  जापानी  , highlighting  इसके   औकात  as an economic  बीच  .
Its nighttime population is  2.6  million ,  the  third in the country  ,  but  in  daytime the  जनसांख्यिकी   surges   to  3.7  लाख  , second only after Tokyo (  combining  the special wards of  टोकियो  , which is not a  सिंगल   incorporated  city , for statistical purposes ; see the Tokyo article  लिये   अधिक  information on the  परिभाषा  and makeup of Tokyo ) .
Osaka used to be referred to as the in  सामंती  Edo period because it was  the  centre of trading for rice ,  बनाना  the  पहला  modern futures  एक्सचेंज   मार्केट  in the world .
The  छोटी  Mermaid is a 1989 American animated  musical  fantasy film produced  by   वॉल्ट  Disney Feature  एनिमेशन   और  distributed by Walt Disney  तस्वीरें   .
Based on  the  Danish fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen  ,  The Little Mermaid tells the story of a beautiful mermaid who dreams of  बनने  human .
Written , directed , and produced by Ron Clements and John  musker  ,  साथ  music by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman , the film features the voices Jodi Benson , Christopher  डेनियल  Barnes , Pat  कैरल  , Samuel  E.  Wright  ,  Jason  मारिन   ,  Kenneth  मंगल  ,  दोस्त  Hacket  ,  and Rene Auberjonois .
the  28th film  in  the Walt Disney Animated Classics series , The Little Mermaid was released to theaters on  नवम्बर   14  , 1989  to  largely positive reviews , garnering $ 84  लाख  at the box office during its initial release  ,  and $ 211 million in total  आजीवन  gross .
After  the  success  of  the 1988 Disney / Amblin film Who Framed Roger Rabbit , The Little Mermaid is given  क्रेडिट  for breathing  जीवन  back into  the   आर्ट  of  डिज़्नी  animated  विशेषता  films  बाद  a string of critical or  वाणिज्यिक   असफलताओं   उत्पादित   by  Disney that dated back to the early  1970s  .
It also marked  the  start of the era  ज्ञात  as  the  Disney Renaissance .
A stage  अनुकूलन  of the film with  a   किताब  by Doug Wright and additional songs by Alan  menken  and new  गीतों  Glenn Slater opened in Denver in July 2007 and began performances on Broadway January  10   ,  2008  .
alt=Close-up photo of a metal spoon  भर  with a viscous  ,  clear purple  द्रव
जामुनी  drank is a slang term  लिये  a  recreational  drug popular  in  the  हिप  hop community in the southern  संयुक्त  States ,  originating  in Houston , Texas  .
Its main ingredient is prescription -strength  खांसी   सिरप  containing  codeine  and promethazine  .
Cough syrup is  typically  mixed with  संघटक  such as Sprite soft  पेय  or Mountain Dew and pieces of Jolly Rancher  कैंडी  .
The  purplish  hue of purple drank comes from  dyes   in  the cough syrup .
There are numerous  कठबोली   शर्तें  for purple  पिया   ,   सहित  sizzurp , lean , syrup , drank , barre , purple jelly ,  टेक्सास   चाय   ,   और  Tsikuni  .
First/given , middle ,  और   last/family/surname   आरेख  with J. S. Bach as  उदाहरण  .
J. S.  बच   साझा  his given  नाम  with six  तात्कालिक  family members and many  विस्तारित  family  सदस्यों  .
He shared his family name  साथ  most  परिवार  members .
A given name , in Western contexts often referred  to  as a first name , is a personal name that  specifies  and differentiates between  सदस्यों  of a group  of  individuals , especially in a family  ,  all of whose  सदस्यों  usually share  the  same family name ( surname  )  .
A given name is purposefully  दिए  , usually by a child 's parents at or near birth  ,  in contrast to  an  inherited one  ऐसे  as a  परिवार  name  .
A given name  is  sometimes legally changed through a name  बदलें  .
दिए  names are often used in a  परिचित  and friendly manner in informal situations .
In more formal situations the surname is  प्रयुक्त  instead , unless it is necessary to distinguish between people  साथ   the  same surname .
The idiom ``  on  a first-name basis  ''  ( or ``  on  first-name  शर्तें  '' ) alludes to the  अपनेपन   of  addressing another by a given  नाम  .
The  पश्चिमी  style of having  दोनो  a family name ( surname )  और   a  given name  is  far  इससे  universal .
In many countries it is common for ordinary people to have  तभी  one name  (  a mononym ) .
Hydrochloric acid  is  a clear , colourless solution  of  hydrogen chloride ( H Cl ) in water  .
It is a highly corrosive , strong  खनिज  acid with many  औद्योगिक  uses .
हाइड्रोक्लोरिक  acid is found  naturally  in gastric acid .
Historically called  muriatic   एसिड  , and spirits of salt ,  हाइड्रोक्लोरिक  acid was produced from vitriol ( sulfuric acid ) and common salt  .
it  first appeared during the Renaissance , and  तब  it  थी  used by chemists such as  glauber   ,  Priestley and Davy in their scientific research .
With major production starting in  the  Industrial Revolution ,  हाइड्रोक्लोरिक  acid is used in the chemical industry as a chemical  अभिकर्मक  in  the  large-scale production  of  vinyl chloride  लिये  PVC  प्लास्टिक  , and MDI / TDI for polyurethane .
It has numerous smaller-scale applications , including household cleaning , production  of  gelatin and  अन्य  food additives , descaling , and leather processing  .
About 20 million tonnes of  हाइड्रोक्लोरिक  acid are  उत्पादित  annually .
Wheat  (  Triticum spp .  )  is a  खाद्यान्न  grain , originally from the Levant region  of  the Near East and Ethiopian Highlands ,  लकिन  now cultivated worldwide .
in  2010 , world  उत्पादन  of wheat was 651 million  टन  , making it  the  third most-produced cereal after maize ( 844 million  टन   )   और  rice ( 672 million tons ) .
गेहूं  was the  दूसरी  most-produced  खाद्यान्न  in 2009 ; world production  in  that year was 682 million  टन   ,  after  मक्का  ( 817 million tons ) , and with rice as a  बंद  third  (  679 million tons ) .
This grain is grown on more land area than any  अन्य  commercial food  .
World trade in  गेहूं  is greater than for all other crops combined .
Globally , wheat is the leading source of vegetable  प्रोटीन  in human  खाना  ,  having  a higher  प्रोटीन  content than soybeans  or  the  अन्य  major cereals , maize ( corn ) or rice .
in  terms of  कुल  production  tonnages  used for food ,  it  is currently  दूसरी  to rice as the main human food crop and ahead of maize , after allowing for maize 's more extensive  उपयोग  in animal feeds .
Wheat was a  कुंजी  factor  enabling  the emergence  of  city-based  समाजों  at the start of  सभ्यता   क्युकी  it was one of the  पहला  crops that could be easily cultivated on a large scale , and had the additional advantage  of  yielding a harvest that provides long-term  भंडार   of  food .
Wheat contributed to  the  emergence of  city-states  in the Fertile Crescent  ,  including  the  Babylonian and Assyrian  empires  .
Wheat  अनाज  is a staple food used  to  make flour for leavened  ,   चपटा  and steamed  breads  ,  बिस्कुट  , cookies ,  cakes  , breakfast cereal , pasta , noodles , couscous and for fermentation to  मेक  beer ,  अन्य  alcoholic  पेय  , or  biofuel  .
Wheat is planted  to  a limited extent as  a  forage crop  लिये  livestock , and its straw  can  be used as a construction material for roofing thatch  .
The whole  अनाज  can be milled to leave just the  भ्रूणपोष  for white flour .
The by-products of this are bran  और  germ  .
The  पूरे  grain is a concentrated source of vitamins , minerals , and protein , while  the  refined  अनाज   is  mostly starch .
Printing
To publish is to make content available to the general public .
While  विशिष्ट  use of the  पद  may vary among countries , it is usually applied to  टेक्स्ट  , images , or other audio-visual content on  कोई  traditional medium , including paper ( newspapers , magazines , catalogs , etc . ) .
The word publication means the act of publishing , and also refers to any printed copies .
Melissa & Joey is an  एबीसी  Family  असली  television series  अभिनीत  Melissa Joan Hart and Joey Lawrence .
It first aired on ABC Family on August 17 , 2010 .
the  series follows local politician Mel Burke  (  Melissa Joan Hart ) and Joe Longo ( Joey Lawrence ) , whom Mel hires to  dekh  after her  भांजी   और  nephew after a Ponzi  योजना  leaves him broke .
The series was renewed by  एबीसी  Family for a second  ऋतु  of fifteen episodes ,  जिससे  began  airing  on  may  30 , 2012 and ended on August 29 , 2012 .
Melissa & Joey ranks as cable  tv  's #  1  telecast at 8 o'clock across target  ऑडियंस  18–34 , 18–49 and 12–34 demographics .
On August 17 , 2012 , ABC Family renewed Melissa & Joey  लिये  a third  ऋतु  ,  नियत  to premiere in spring  2013  .
The  धर्मं  wheel , often used to  represent  the Noble Eightfold Path
The Noble  eightfold  Path ( , ) is one of the principal teachings of the Buddha , who described it as the way leading  to  the cessation  of  suffering  (  dukkha ) and  the  achievement of self-awakening .
It is used  to  develop insight into  the   सच्चा  nature  of  phenomena ( or reality ) and to eradicate  लोभ  , hatred , and delusion .
The  प्रतिष्ठित   eightfold   पाथ  is the  चौथी   of  the  बुद्ध  's  चार  Noble Truths ; the  पहला  element of  the  Noble Eightfold Path is , in  फेरे  , an understanding  of  the Four Noble  सच्चाई  .
It  is  also known  as  the Middle Path  or   मध्य  Way .
All eight elements of the Path  शुरू  with the word `` right '' , which translates the  शब्द  samyañc ( in Sanskrit  )  or sammā  (  in Pāli ) .
These denote completion , togetherness , and coherence , and  can  also suggest the senses of `` perfect '' or `` ideal  ''  .
'Samma  '  is also translated as `` wholesome '' , `` wise '' and ``  skillful  '' .
In Buddhist symbolism  ,  the Noble Eightfold Path is often  represented  by means of the dharma wheel ( dharmachakra  )  , whose eight spokes  represent  the eight  तत्व  of the path .
The  ग्रैमी  Award for Song of the Year is an honor  प्रस्तुत  at the Grammy Awards  ,  a ceremony  कि  was established in 1958 and originally called the  gramophone  Awards .
Awards in several  श्रेणी  are distributed annually by the National Academy  of   रिकॉर्डिंग  Arts  और  Sciences  of  the United  राज्य  to `` honor artistic  उपलब्धि   ,  technical  proficiency  and  overall  excellence in the recording industry ,  बगैर  regard to  एल्बम  sales or  चार्ट  position  .  ''
Economics is the social science that analyzes the production , distribution  ,  and consumption of goods and services .
the  term  अर्थशास्त्र  comes  इससे  the  प्राचीन  Greek  (   '  , `` management of a  household   ,  administration '' ) from  (  '  ,  `` house ''  )  + ( '  ,  `` custom ''  or  `` law '' ) , hence  ``  rules of the house  (  hold  )   ''  .
राजनैतिक  economy was the earlier name for the subject , but economists in the  लेट   19th  century suggested `` economics '' as a shorter  पद  for  ``  economic science '' that also  avoided  a  सीमित  political-interest  connotation  and as similar in form to `` mathematics  ``  , ``  आचार  '' , and so forth .
a   फ़ोकस  of the subject is how economic agents  व्यवहार  or interact and how economies  कार्य  .
Consistent with this ,  a  primary textbook distinction is between  microeconomics  and macroeconomics .
Microeconomics examines the behavior of  मौलिक  elements in the economy ,  सहित  individual agents  (   ऐसे  as households  और  firms or as buyers and sellers ) and  बाज़ार   ,   और  their interactions .
macroeconomics  analyzes the  संपूर्ण  economy and issues affecting  it  , including  बेरोजगारी  , inflation  ,  economic  विकास  , and monetary and  फिस्कल  policy  .
अन्य  broad distinctions include those  between  positive economics ( describing `` what is  ''  ) and normative economics  (  advocating `` what ought to be  ''  ) ; between economic  सिद्धान्त   और  applied economics ; between  तर्कसंगत   और   behavioral  economics ; and between mainstream economics ( more  ``   परंपरागत  '' and dealing with the ``  rationality-individualism-equilibrium  nexus '' ) and heterodox economics ( more `` radical '' and  dealing  with the  ``  institutions-history-social structure nexus  ''  ) .
आर्थिक   विश्लेषण  may be applied throughout society ,  as  in business , finance  ,  health care , and government , but also to  ऐसे  diverse subjects as crime , education  ,  the  परिवार  , law , politics , religion  ,  social  संस्थानों  , war , and science  .
At the  फेरे   of  the 21st  सदी  , the expanding domain of  अर्थशास्त्र  in the social sciences has been  वर्णित   as  economic imperialism .
an  increasing number of economists have called for increased  जोर  on environmental sustainability ; this  क्षेत्रफल   of  research is known as Ecological economics .
This is  a  list of Schedule IV drugs under the Controlled Substances Act for the United States .
Required findings for  दवाएँ  to be  लगाई  in this schedule:
The drug  or  other substance has a low potential for abuse relative to the drugs or other substances in  अनुसूची  III .
The  ड्रग  or  अन्य  substance  रै  a currently accepted  चिकित्सा   उपयोग   in  treatment in  the  United States .
Abuse of the drug or other substance may lead  to  limited  शारीरिक  dependence or psychological dependence  सापेक्ष   to   the  drugs or other  substances  in schedule III .
The complete  सूची  of Schedule IV drugs are as follows .
The Administrative Controlled Substances Code Number for each drug is included .
US county household median income  2009   .
Median  us  household  आय  , 2001-2011
Household  आय   is  a measure commonly used by the United States government and private  संस्थानों   .
Each household  is   measured  by  the  income of every  निवासी   over  the age  of  15 .
Income  शामिल  wages and salaries , unemployment  बीमे   ,  disability  भुगतान  , child support payments  प्राप्त   ,   नियमित  rental  रसीदें  , as  खूब  as any personal business , investment ,  or  other kinds of income received routinely .
While inflation-adjusted  (  `` real  ''   )  household  आय  had been increasing almost every year from 1945  to  1999 ,  it  has  चूंकि  been flat and even  decreased  recently .
U.S. median household income fell from $  51,144  in 2010  to  $  50,502   in  2011 .
Extreme poverty in the United States , meaning  households  living on  कम  than $  2  per day before government benefits , doubled from 1996  to  1.5 million households in 2011 , including  2.8  million children .
The residents of the household do not  have  to  be  related to the head of the household for their earnings to be considered part  of  the  household  's income .
As  households  tend to share a similar economic context , the use of household income remains among the most widely  स्वीकृत   उपायों  of income .
That the size of a household is  नहीं  commonly taken into account in  ऐसे  measures may distort any analysis  of  fluctuations within  or   among   the  household  आय  categories , and may render direct comparisons between  quintiles  difficult or even impossible .
The lapse rate is defined as the rate of  घटी  with height for an atmospheric  परिवर्तनीय  .
The variable involved is temperature unless specified otherwise  .
The terminology arises from the word lapse in the sense of a decrease  or  decline .
While  सबसे   प्रायः  applied to  धरती  's atmosphere the concept  can  be extended to any gravitationally  समर्थित  ball of gas .
ब्लू  Mountain State is an American comedy  श्रेणी  that premiered on Spike  on  January 11 , 2010 .
The  श्रेणी  producers include Chris Romano and  eric  Falconer , and it  is  produced  by  Lionsgate Television .
The series is about a fictional university ,  ब्लू  Mountain State  ,  and  इसके   फ़ुटबॉल  team  ,   ``  The Mountain  बकरियों   .   ''
It portrays certain  पहलुओं  of American university life , including football  ,  sex , binge  पीने  , drugs , wild partying , and hazing  .
in  February 2012 ,  it  was  reported   कि   ब्लू  Mountain State would  नहीं  be renewed for a fourth season .
In March  2013  , Ed  marinaro   stated  that he  is   working  on a Blue Mountain  राज्य  film  .
Apple Inc.  ,  formerly Apple  कंप्यूटर  , Inc. , is  an  American multinational corporation headquartered in  cupertino   ,  California that designs , develops , and sells consumer electronics ,  कंप्यूटर  software and personal computers .
Its best-known hardware products are the Mac line of computers ,  the  iPod music player  ,  the  iphone  smartphone , and the iPad tablet computer .
Its software includes the  os  X  और   आईओएस  operating systems  ,  the iTunes  मीडिया  browser , the Safari web browser , and the iLife and iWork creativity and  उत्पादन  suites  .
The company was founded on April 1 , 1976 , and  incorporated  as Apple Computer , Inc.  on  January  3  , 1977 .
The word `` Computer  ''  was removed from its  नाम  on  जनवरी  9 , 2007 ,  reflecting  its  shifted  focus towards  उपभोक्ता   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स   बाद  the introduction  of  the iPhone  .
Apple is the  संसार   's   second-largest  information technology company by  आय  after Samsung Electronics , and the world  's  third-largest mobile  फोन  maker after Samsung  और  Nokia .
Fortune magazine  नामित  Apple the  सबसे  admired company  in  the  संयुक्त  States in  2008  , and in the world from 2008 to 2012 .
However  ,  the company  रै  received criticism for its contractors '  मजदूर  practices ,  और   लिये  Apple 's own environmental and business practices .
,  Apple  maintains   394  retail stores  in  fourteen countries as well  as  the  ऑनलाइन  Apple  स्टोर  and iTunes Store  .
It is the  second-largest  publicly  traded  corporation in the world  by   मार्केट   capitalization  , with an estimated value of US $ 414 billion as  of  January  2013   .
, the company had 72,800 permanent full-time employees and 3,300 temporary  full-time  employees worldwide .
Its worldwide annual  आय   in  2012 totalled $ 156 billion .
Section 8 housing  in  the South  bronx
Section 8 of the  आवास  Act of 1937 ( ) , often simply known  as  Section 8 ,  as  repeatedly amended , authorizes the payment of rental  आवास  assistance to private landlords  on   निमित्त  of approximately 3.1 million low-income households .
It  operates  through several programs ,  the  largest of  जिससे  , the Housing Choice Voucher program , pays a large portion of  the  rents and  उपयोगिताएँ  of  परिचय   2.1  million households .
The US  विभाग  of Housing and  शहरी  Development manages  the   खण्ड  8 programs .
The Housing Choice Voucher Program provides `` tenant-based '' rental  सहायता  , so  a  tenant can move from one unit of at least minimum housing quality to another .
It also allows individuals to apply their monthly voucher towards the purchase of a home , with over $  17  billion going towards such purchases each year ( from ncsha.org analysis ) .
The maximum allowed voucher  is  $ 2200 a  माह  .
खण्ड  8 also  authorizes  a variety  of  `` project-based '' rental  सहायता  programs ,  अंतर्गत  which the  मालिक  reserves some or all of the  इकाई   in  a building for low-income  किरायेदारों   ,  in  वापसी  for a Federal government guarantee to  मेक   up  the  अंतर  between the  किरायेदार  's contribution and the rent for 1 cent in  the  owner 's  अनुबंध   साथ   the  government  .
A tenant who leaves a subsidized project will lose access to  the  project-based subsidy .
The United States Department of Housing  और   शहरी  Development and United States Department of  दिग्गजों  Affairs have a special  खण्ड  8 program called VASH ( Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing )  ,  or HUD-VASH , which  देता  out a  निश्चित   क्रमांक  of Section 8 vouchers to eligible homeless and otherwise vulnerable US armed forces veterans .
Restaurants categorized  by  type and  सूचना  about these  अलग  types .
u.S.  Federal Reserve notes in the  mid-1990s
the  history of the United States dollar covers more than 200 years .
