A partly submerged  हिमानी  cave on Perito  मोरेनो  Glacier .
The ice facade is  लगभग  60 m  ऊँची
Ice formations in  the  Titlis  हिमानी   गुफा
a  glacier cave  is  a cave formed within  the  ice of a glacier  .
हिमानी  caves are  प्रायः  called ice caves , but  इस   पद  is  properly   प्रयुक्त   to   describe  bedrock caves that contain year-round  बर्फ   .
in   भौतिकी   ,  circular motion is a  गति  of an object along  the  circumference  of   a  circle or rotation  साथ  a  गोलाकार  path  .
It  can   be   वर्दी   ,  with constant  कोणीय   रेट  of  रोटेशन   (   और  constant speed ) , or non-uniform with  a   बदलना   रेट   of  rotation .
The  रोटेशन  around  a  fixed axis of a three-dimensional body  involves   गोलाकार   गति   of  its parts .
the   equations  of  गति  describe the  गति  of the center of mass  of  a body  .
उदाहरण  of circular motion  शामिल   :   an  artificial satellite orbiting  the   धरती  at constant height ,  a   स्टोन   जिससे  is tied  to  a rope  और  is being  swung   in  circles , a  car  turning  through  a curve in  a   रेस  track ,  an  electron moving perpendicular  to  a  वर्दी  magnetic field ,  और  a gear  turning  inside  a  mechanism  .
चूंकि  the  ऑब्जेक्ट   's  velocity vector is  constantly   बदलना  direction , the moving  ऑब्जेक्ट  is undergoing acceleration by  a   अभिकेन्द्रीय  force in the direction of the center of  रोटेशन  .
बगैर   इस  acceleration  ,   the   ऑब्जेक्ट  would move in  a   सीधा  line ,  according   to   न्यूटन   's   कानून  of  गति  .
Apollo  पंथ  is a  fictional   अक्षर  from the Rocky films ,  initially  portrayed  as   the  Undisputed Heavyweight  चैंपियन   of  the World .
he  was played  by   कार्ल  Weathers  .
पंथ  had multiple nicknames  ,   सहित  The Master of Disaster , The King of Sting  ,  The Dancing  विनाशक   ,  The Prince  of  Punch , The One  और  Only and  the   गिनती  of Monte Fisto .
शहरी  legend states  कि  Apollo  पंथ  's name is a wordplay on the Apostles  '  Creed  ,  a  बयान  of belief used  in   ईसाई  churches  .
All of Apollo  's  championship fights  यहूद   अनुसूचित   लिये   the  15 round distance  .
चैंपियनशिप  fights did not convert  इससे  15  rounds  to  12  rounds until 1987  .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited  साथ   popularizing   the  red ,  श्वेत  ,  और  blue trunks ;  पंथ  was the  पहला  man  to   पहनें   उन्हें  ( latterly worn by Rocky Balboa in  the   3rd   और  4th installments  और   आखिरकार  by  टॉमी  ``  the   यंत्र  ''  gunn   (  Tommy  मॉरिसन  ) in  the   5th   किश्त  )  हालांकि   सामान्यतः  he wore red  और  white , as  देखी  in  रॉकी   ii   .
Balboa  's  signature colors  यहूद  black and gold—colors  he  used in the latest movie .
In the United States  ,  the title of federal  न्यायधीश   प्रायः   अर्थात्  a judge  नियुक्त  by  the  President  of   the  United  राज्य  and  पुष्टि   by  the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of  the  United  राज्य   संविधान   .
In addition to the  परम्  Court  of  the  संयुक्त  States , whose existence  और   कुछ  aspects of  जिनकी  jurisdiction are  परे   the  constitutional power  of  Congress to alter ,  अधिनियमों  of Congress have  स्थापित  13 courts of appeals  (  also  पुकारा  `` circuit  न्यायालयों  '' ) with  appellate  jurisdiction over  अलग   regions  of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   ,  and 94  संयुक्त  States  ज़िला   न्यायालयों  .
Every  न्यायधीश  appointed  to   ऐसे  a court  may   be  categorized as a federal judge ;  ऐसे  positions include the Chief  इंसाफ   और  Associate Justices  of   the  Supreme Court , Circuit Judges  of   the   न्यायालयों  of  appeals  ,  और  district judges of  the  United  राज्य  district courts  .
सब  of these judges described thus far are  referred  to  sometimes  as  ``   आलेख   iii  judges '' because  वे  exercise the judicial power  vested   in   the  judicial branch of the  संघीय   सरकारी   by  Article III  of   the   u.S.   संविधान  .
In addition , judges of  the  Court  of  International Trade exercise judicial power  pursuant  to  आलेख   iii  .
Other  न्यायाधीशों  serving  in  the federal  न्यायालयों   ,  including  मजिस्ट्रेट  judges  और  bankruptcy judges  ,   हैं   भी   sometimes  referred to as  ``  federal judges  ''  ; however ,  वे   हैं  neither  नियुक्त   by   the   अध्यक्ष   nor  confirmed  by  the Senate  ,  and their power derives from Article I  बजाय  .
See Article I and  आलेख  III tribunals .
The Beretta  21a  Bobcat is a small  pocket-sized  semi-automatic pistol designed by  beretta   in  Italy .
उत्पादन  began  in  late  1984   ,  solely in  the   beretta  U.S.A. facility  in  Accokeek ,  मेरीलैंड  .
it  is a further development of the Beretta Model  20  , whose production ended  in  1985 .
परिवर्तनीय  Universal Life  बीमे   (  often  shortened   to   vul  ) is a type of life insurance  कि   builds  a  नकदी   मान  .
in   a  VUL , the  नकदी   मान   can   be  invested  in   a   चौड़ी  variety  of  separate accounts , similar  to  mutual  निधि  , and the choice of  जिससे  of  the   उपलब्धियाँ  separate  खाते   to   उपयोग   is   entirely  up to the contract owner .
The  'variable   '  component in  the  name  refers  to  इस  ability  to  invest  in   पृथक  accounts whose  मान   vary—they   vary  because  वे  are  invested  in stock  and/or  bond markets .
The 'universal ' component in the  नाम   refers   to   the  flexibility  the   मालिक  has in making premium payments .
The premiums can  vary  from  nothing  in a given  माह   up   to  maximums  पारिभाषित   by  the  आतंरिक  Revenue Code  लिये   जीवन   बीमे   .
This  लचीलापन   is   in  contrast to whole  जीवन   बीमे  that  रै   फिक्स्ड   प्रीमियम  payments  कि  typically can not  be  missed without lapsing the  नीति  (  हालांकि  one  may  exercise an  स्वचालित   प्रीमियम  Loan feature  ,  or  आत्मसमर्पण  dividends to pay a Whole Life  प्रीमियम   )  .
Variable universal life is  a  type of permanent life insurance  ,   क्युकी   the   मौत   लाभ   होगा   be  paid if the insured  मरता  any time as long  as  there  is  sufficient  नकदी  value to pay the costs of  बीमे  in the  नीति  .
With  सबसे  if  नहीं   सब   vuls  , unlike whole  जीवन   ,  there is no endowment age  (  the age  at  which the cash value equals  the  death benefit amount  ,  which  लिये   पूरे  life  is  typically 100 ) .
This  is  yet another key  लाभ   of   vul  over Whole Life .
साथ  a typical  पूरे  life policy ,  the  death benefit  is   सीमित   to  the face amount specified  in   the  policy , and  at   endowment  age , the face amount is  सब  that is paid  आउट  .
Thus with either death  or  endowment ,  the  insurance company  keeps  any  नकदी  value  निर्मित  up over  the  years  .
However ,  कुछ   participating   पूरे  life  नीतियों  offer riders which  बताएँ   कि   कोई  dividends  सशुल्क  on  the  policy be used  to  purchase ``  सशुल्क  up additions '' to the  नीति   जिससे   बढ़ाएँ   दोनो   the  cash value  और  the  मौत  benefit  over   समय   .
If  निवेश  made in the  पृथक  accounts out-perform  the  general  खाता   of   the  insurance  कम्पनी  , a higher  rate-of-return   can  occur than the  फिक्स्ड   rates-of-return  typical  लिये  whole life .
The  संयोजन  over the  सालो  of no  endowment  age  ,   continually  increasing  मौत   लाभ  , and  if   a   ऊँची  rate-of-return is earned in  the  separate accounts of  a  VUL  नीति  ,  इस   could   परिणाम   in   उच्चतर   मान  to the owner  or  beneficiary than that  of  a whole life  नीति   साथ   the  same amounts of  धन  paid in  as  premiums .
the   बाहरी  wood boiler is  a   रूपांतर  of  the  classic wood stove adapted  लिये  set-up outdoors while  स्टिल  transferring  the  heat to interior  इमारतें  .
a   mound  of Girl Scout cookies  .
This  mound   contains  74 boxes  of  cookies
Girl Scout Cookies  हैं   कुकीज़   बेची   by  Girl Scouts  of  the USA ( GSUSA )  as  one  of   इसके   प्रमुख   fundraisers   लिये   लोकल   स्काउट  units .
सदस्यों   of   the  GSUSA have  महरूम   selling   कुकीज़  since  1917   to  raise funds  .
लड़कियों   जो   participate  can  earn   पुरस्कार  for  उनके   प्रयत्न   .
वहीँ  are also  ईकाई   प्रोत्साहन   if  the unit  as  a whole does  खूब   .
As of  2007   ,  sales were estimated at about 200 million boxes per  साल   .
विश्वविद्यालयों  Hall
Purdue University , located in West Lafayette  ,   इंडियाना  , is  the  flagship university of the  six-campus  Purdue University system .
Purdue was founded  on  May  6  , 1869 , as a land-grant  विश्वविद्यालयों   जब   the   इंडियाना   सामान्य   सभा   ,   लेने  advantage of  the  Morrill Act , accepted  a   दान  of  जमीन   और  money  इससे   lafayette   बिजनेसमैन  John Purdue to  स्थापित   a   कॉलेज  of  विज्ञान  , technology  ,  and  कृषि  in his name  .
the   पहला  classes  यहूद  held  on   सितंबर   16  ,  1874  , with six instructors and 39  विद्यार्थी   .
आज  , Purdue is a member  of   the  Big  टेन   सम्मेलन  , and is a  खूब  known  world-class   शोध   संस्था   .
Purdue enrolls  the   दूसरी   largest   छात्र  body of any  विश्वविद्यालयों  in  इंडियाना   as  well as the  चौथी  largest  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  student population of  कोई  university  in   the   संयुक्त  States .
purdue  offers both undergraduate  और  graduate programs  in   over   211  major  क्षेत्रों   of  study , and is well known for  इसके   प्रतिस्पर्धी  engineering  curricula  .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों  has also  महरूम  highly  influential   in  America 's  इतिहास  of aviation  ,   having  established  the  first  कॉलेज   क्रेडिट  offered  in  flight training  ,   the   पहला  four-year  स्नातक  's  उपाधि  in aviation  ,   और   the  first university  विमानक्षेत्र   (   purdue   विश्वविद्यालयों   विमानक्षेत्र  )  .
purdue  's  विमानन  technology program  remains  one of the  सबसे  competitive  aviation-specific   कार्यक्रम  in the  संसार  .
in   the   mid-20th  century ,  purdue   's   विमानन  program expanded  to   encompass   उन्नत  spaceflight  प्रौद्योगिकी  giving  वृद्धि   to  Purdue  's  nickname , Cradle  of  Astronauts  .
twenty-three   purdue   graduates  have  गए   on   to  become astronauts  ,   सहित   गस  Grissom  (   एक   of   the  original Mercury Seven astronauts  )  , Neil Armstrong  (   the  first person  to   चलना  on the moon ) , and  यूजीन   cernan  (  the   सबसे   हाल  person to walk on the moon  )   .
a   वसामय   गाँठ   (   )  is a  पद   कि  loosely refers to  either  epidermoid cysts ( also  ज्ञात  as epidermal  cysts   ;  L72.0 )  or  pilar cysts ( also  ज्ञात  as  trichilemmal  cysts ;  l72.1   )   .
क्युकी   an  epidermoid cyst  originates   in  the epidermis and a  पिलर  cyst originates  इससे  hair follicles  ,  by definition  ,   neither   प्रकार  of  गाँठ   is  strictly a sebaceous  गाँठ  .
The  नाम  is  regarded  as  a  misnomer  as  the  वसीय  ,  श्वेत   ,   semi-solid  material in  दोनो   of  these  गाँठ  entities  is   नहीं  sebum  ,   लकिन   keratin  .
furthermore  ,  अंतर्गत  the microscope  neither  entity contains  वसामय  glands  .
In practice  ,   however   ,  the terms  हैं   प्रायः   प्रयुक्त  interchangeably .
`` True  ''  sebaceous cysts are relatively  विरल  and  हैं   ज्ञात   as  steatocystomas or  ,   if   अनेक   ,  as steatocystoma multiplex .
Modern pointe  जूते  .
The edge of  the  toe  pad   ,  which is inserted between  the   पैर  and  टो   बक्सा   लिये   cushioning  , can be seen  on   the  right foot .
A  pointe  shoe  is   a   प्रकार   of  shoe  worn  by ballet  नर्तक  when performing pointe work .
Pointe shoes  विकसित  from  the   ख्वाहिश  for dancers  to  appear weightless  और   sylph   -like   और  have evolved  to  enable dancers to  नृत्य  en  pointe   (   on  the  नुस्ख़े   of  their toes ) for  विस्तारित  periods of time .
वे  are  सामान्यतः   worn   by   मादा   नर्तक   ,   हालांकि   पुरूष  dancers  may  wear  उन्हें   लिये  unorthodox roles  ऐसे  as the  भद्दा  stepsisters  in   सिंडरेला  , Bottom in A Midsummer Night 's  सपना   ,  or  मेन  performing as  महिलाओं  in  नृत्य  companies such as  लेस   नाटिकाओं   trockadero  and Grandiva  .
They  हैं  manufactured in a variety of  रंगों   ,  most commonly in shades  of  light  गुलाबी   .
This tablespoon  रै   a   क्षमता  of about  15   ml  .
measuring   spoons
In  the  US  और  parts of  कनाडा  , a tablespoon  is   the  largest  प्रकार  of  चमचा   प्रयुक्त  for eating from a bowl  .
in  the  uk  , Europe  और  most  राष्ट्रमंडल   देशों   ,   a   tablespoon  is a  प्रकार   of  large  चमचा   प्रायः  used for serving .
in  countries where a  tablespoon   is  a  सेवारत   चमचा  , the  निकटतम  equivalent to  the   us  tablespoon is either the  मिठाई  spoon  or  the soup  चमचा  .
a  tablespoonful , nominally the capacity  of   एक  tablespoon , is  commonly   प्रयुक्त   as  a  माप  of  आवाज़  in cooking .
It  is  abbreviated as  t  , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp ,  or  tblspn .
The  क्षमता   of  ordinary tablespoons is  नहीं   regulated  by law and  is   विषय  to  considerable   विभिन्नता  .
in  the  यूएसए  one tablespoon  (   मापन  unit )  is   लगभग  15 mL ; the capacity  of  an actual tablespoon (  डाइनिंग   utensil  )  सीमाएँ  from  7   ml  to 14  ml  .
in  Australia  एक  tablespoon  (  measurement  ईकाई  )  is   20  mL  .
Harry Potter  is  a  श्रेणी  of  सात   काल्पनिक   novels  written by the  अंग्रेजों  author J.  K.  Rowling .
the   किताबे  chronicle  the  adventures  of  a  जादूगर  , Harry  कुम्हार   ,  and his  मित्रों   रोनाल्ड  Weasley and Hermione Granger  ,  all  of   जिसको  are students  at   हॉग्वार्ट्स  School of  चुड़ैल   और   wizardry   .
The main story arc  चिंताएं  Harry  's  quest  to   overcome  the  अंधेरा  wizard Lord  voldemort  , whose  aims   हैं   to   become  immortal  ,  conquer the wizarding  संसार  ,  subjugate   non-magical   लोगों   ,   और   नष्ट  all those  जो  stand  in  his  रास्ता   ,  especially  हैरी  Potter  .
चूंकि  the release of  the  first novel Harry  कुम्हार  and  the   पारस  's Stone on 30  जून  1997  ,   the  books  have  gained immense popularity , critical acclaim  और   वाणिज्यिक  success worldwide  .
the   श्रेणी  has also had  कुछ  share of criticism  ,   सहित  concern for  the  increasingly dark tone .
,   the  book  श्रेणी  has sold about  450  million copies  ,  making  it  the  best-selling  book  श्रेणी  in history  ,  and has  महरूम  translated  into  67 languages .
The last  चार  books consecutively set records as the fastest-selling books in  इतिहास  .
A  श्रेणी   of  many  जाति   ,   सहित   काल्पनिक  and coming  of  age ( with  तत्व  of mystery ,  थ्रिलर   ,  adventure ,  और  romance  )  ,  it  has many  सांस्कृतिक  meanings and references .
according  to  रोलिंग   ,  the main theme is death .
वहीँ  are  भी   अनेक   अन्य  themes in the series , such  as  prejudice and  भ्रष्टाचार  .
The initial  प्रमुख  publishers of the  किताबे  were Bloomsbury  in  the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press  in  the  संयुक्त  States  .
the   किताबे  have since  महरूम  published  by   अनेक  publishers worldwide .
The books  ,  with  the   सातवाँ  book split  into  two parts  ,  have  महरूम   बना  into an  eight-part   फिल्मी   श्रेणी  by Warner  भाईs.   तस्वीरें   ,   the  highest-grossing film series  of   सब   समय   .
The  श्रेणी   भी  originated  much  tie-in merchandise  ,  making  the  Harry  कुम्हार  brand worth  in   excess   of  $  15  billion  .
Also due to the success  of  the  किताबे  and  films  , Harry  कुम्हार  has been used  लिये  a  थीम  park , The Wizarding  संसार  of Harry Potter in  सार्वभौमिक  Parks & Resorts  's  Islands of Adventure .
rs-68  being tested at  नासा  's  stennis   स्पेस  Center .
the  nearly transparent exhaust  is   due   to  this engine  's   exhaust   होने  mostly  अतितप्त  steam ( water  वाष्प   इससे   इसके  propellants , hydrogen and oxygen )
viking   5c  rocket  इंजन
a  rocket engine , or simply ``  प्रक्षेपास्त्र  ''  ,   is   a   जेट  engine that uses  तभी  stored propellant mass for forming  इसके   ऊँची   गति   propulsive   जेट  .
Rocket  इंजन  are reaction  इंजन  and obtain  thrust  in accordance with Newton  's   तीसरा  law .
चूंकि   वे  need  no  external material to  रूप  their  जेट  , rocket engines can be  प्रयुक्त   लिये   spacecraft  propulsion  as   खूब  as terrestrial uses ,  ऐसे  as missiles .
Most rocket engines are internal combustion  इंजन  ,  हालांकि   non-combusting  forms also exist  .
Rocket  इंजन  as  a   समूह   have  the highest exhaust  गतियाँ  , are by far the lightest , but  हैं   the  least propellant  कुशल  of  सब   प्रकार   of  jet  इंजन  .
``  ...  baby  One  अधिक  Time  ''  is a song  by   अमरीकी   रिकॉर्डिंग   कलाकार   britney  Spears .
It served  as  Spears 's debut  सिंगल  and title  track   इससे   उसके  debut studio album ,  ...  Baby One  अधिक  Time ( 1999 ) .
लिखा  by Max Martin and produced by Martin and  रामी  , `` ...  baby  One More  समय  ''  थी  released  on  September  30  ,  1998  , by  jive   रिकॉर्ड  .
After  रिकॉर्डिंग  and  sending  a demo tape with  an   अप्रयुक्त   सोंग  from  toni   braxton   ,   स्पीयर्स   हस्ताक्षरित  a  multi-album   सौदे   साथ  Jive .
`` ... Baby One More  समय   ''  is  a  teen  पॉप  and dance-pop  सोंग  that  refers  to a  लड़की  who  संताप  breaking up  साथ   उसके   बॉयफ्रेंड   .
The song received generally favorable reviews  इससे  critics  ,  who praised its composition .
``  ...   baby   एक   अधिक  Time  ''   attained   वैश्विक  success  ,   reaching  number  एक   in  every  देश  it charted  .
it  also  प्राप्त  numerous certifications  around  the world  ,  and  is  one  of   the  best-selling singles of all time  ,   साथ   over  10 million copies sold .
An  accompanying  music video , directed by  निगेल  Dick ,  portrays  Spears  as  a student from  a   कैथोलिक   ऊँची   स्कूल   ,  who starts to daydream  कि  she  is  singing  और  dancing  around  the  स्कूल  , while watching  उसके  love  ब्याज  from afar .
The music  वीडियो  was later referenced in  the  music  वीडियो  of ``  if   u  Seek  एमी   ``  (  2008  )  ,   जहाँ  Spears  's   fictional  daughter is  वेश  with  a   समान   schoolgirl   पहनावा  while wearing  गुलाबी   ribbons   in   उसके   बाल  .
In  2010   ,   the   म्यूज़िक   वीडियो  for `` ...  baby   एक  More Time ''  थी  voted the  तीसरा  most influential video  in  the history of pop music  ,   in  a poll held by Jam ! .
Spears has performed ``  ...  Baby One  अधिक   समय  '' in  a  number of  सजीव  appearances and in all of her concert  टुर  .
it  was  the  encore  of  the  ...   baby   एक   अधिक   समय   दौरे  (  1999  )  और  Dream  भीतर  a  सपना  Tour (  2001  ) ; Spears also performed remixed versions of the song  दौरान   the  Oops ! ...
I Did  it  Again  संसार   दौरे   (   2000  ) , The Onyx Hotel  दौरे   (   2004   )   ,   the  M+M  's   दौरे   (  2007  )   ,  The Circus  अभिनीत  Britney  स्पीयर्स  ( 2009  )   ,   और  the Femme Fatale  दौरे  ( 2011  )  .
``  ...  Baby One  अधिक   समय   ''   थी   मनोनीत   लिये  a  ग्रैमी  Award for  बेहतरीन  Female Pop Vocal  प्रदर्शन  , and has  महरूम  included in lists  by  Blender , Rolling  स्टोन   और   vh1  .
It  रै   महरूम  noted for  redefining  the sound  of   लेट  1990s  म्यूज़िक  .
Spears has  नामित   ``  ... Baby  एक   अधिक   समय   ''   as  one of  उसके  favorite songs from her career .
It was  भी  the  फाइनल   सोंग  to  be   निभाई  on the  बीबीसी  's music  कार्यक्रम  Top of the  चबूतरे   .
Cholera is  an   संक्रमण   in   the   छोटी   आंत  caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae  .
the  main symptoms are  watery  diarrhea and vomiting .
Transmission  occurs   primarily  by  पीने  water or eating  खाना  that has been contaminated by  the  feces  (  waste product ) of an infected  व्यक्ति  ,  सहित  one with no apparent symptoms  .
The  गंभीरता  of the diarrhea and  उल्टी   can   सीसे   to  rapid  निर्जलीकरण  and  electrolyte   असंतुलन   ,   और  death in some  मामले  .
the   प्राथमिक  treatment is oral rehydration therapy  ,   typically   साथ   मौखिक   पुनर्जलीकरण  solution ,  to   बदलें   जल   और  electrolytes  .
If  इस  is not  tolerated  or  करता   नहीं   provide  improvement  तेज़  enough , intravenous fluids can also  be  used .
Antibacterial drugs are  फायदेमंद  in those with  कठोर   बीमारी   to   shorten  its duration and severity  .
Worldwide ,  it   affects  3–5  लाख  people and  कल्याणकारी  100,000–130,000 deaths a year .
Cholera was  एक  of the earliest infections  to  be studied  by  epidemiological methods  .
The  चित्र  of Dorian  धूसर  is the only published  अनोखा   by  Oscar Wilde , appearing  as  the lead story  in   lippincott   's   मासिक  Magazine on 20 June  1890  , printed  as  the  जुलाई  1890  समस्या   of  this magazine  .
the   पत्रिका  's  सम्पादक   feared   the  story  थी  indecent as  सुपुर्द   ,  so they  censored  roughly 500  शब्द  , without Wilde 's knowledge , before  प्रकाशन  .
But  भी  with  कि   ,   the   स्टोरी   थी   स्टिल   greeted   साथ  outrage by  अंग्रेजों   reviewers  ,  कुछ  of  जिसको   सुझाया   कि   वाइल्ड   चाहिए  be  prosecuted   on  moral grounds , leading  वाइल्ड   to  defend  the   अनोखा  aggressively in letters to the  अंग्रेजों   दबायें  .
Wilde later revised the story for  किताब  publication ,  बनाना   substantial  alterations  ,   हटाना   विवादास्पद   passages   ,   adding  new  अध्याय  and including an  aphoristic  Preface which has  चूंकि   become  famous  in  its own  सही  .
The  amended  version was published by  वार्ड  , Lock  और  Company in April  1891  .
कुछ   विद्वानों   मानना  that  वाइल्ड   होता  today have wanted us to read  the  version  he  originally  सुपुर्द  to  lippincott   's  .
The novel tells of  a   यंग  man  नामित  Dorian Gray  ,  the subject of a painting by artist Basil Hallward  .
Basil  is   प्रभावित   by  Dorian 's beauty and  becomes   infatuated  with him ,  believing   उसके   सौंदर्य  is responsible for  a  new  विधि   in  his art .
डोरियन  meets  रब  Henry  wotton   ,   a  friend of Basil 's , and  becomes   enthralled   by  Lord  हेनरी  's world view  .
Espousing a new  hedonism  ,  रब   हेनरी  suggests  the  only things  लायक  pursuing in life are  सौंदर्य  and fulfilment of  the   होश  .
Realizing that one day  उसके   सौंदर्य  will  फीका   ,   डोरियन   (  whimsically ) expresses  a  desire to  बेचें  his soul to ensure the portrait Basil  रै  painted would  आयु  rather  than   he   .
Dorian 's wish is  fulfilled  , and when he subsequently  pursues  a  जीवन   of  debauchery , the  पोर्ट्रेट  serves as  a  reminder  of   the  effect each  अधिनियम   रै  upon  उसके  soul  ,   साथ  each  सिन  displayed as a  disfigurement   of   उसके  form  ,  or through a sign  of   वृद्धावस्था   .
The Picture of  डोरियन  Gray is  माना  a work of classic  गोथिक  fiction with  a  strong Faustian theme  .
Sári  gábor   (   born  6 February 1917 ) , known as  ज़ा  Zsa Gabor  (  ) , is a Hungarian -born  अमरीकी  actress who acted in supporting  भूमिकाएँ  in  फिल्मों  , on Broadway  ,  and occasionally  on   टेलीविज़न   .
Gabor  थी  also  a   socialite  .
She began  उसके   स्टेज   करियर  in Vienna  at  age 15 ,  और   थी   पहनाया  Miss  हंगेरियाई   in   1936  .
She emigrated to the  संयुक्त  States in 1941  और  became a sought-after actress  साथ  ``  यूरोपीय  flair and style '' ,  साथ   a  personality  कि  `` exuded charm and  अनुग्रह   ''   .
उसके  first movie role was  as   supporting  actress  in  Lovely  to   dekh   at  .
She later  acted   in  We 're  नहीं   शादीशुदा   !
and  निभाई   एक  of  उसके   few   अग्रणी  roles in Moulin Rouge ( 1952  )   ,  directed by John Huston , who described her  as  a  ``  creditable '' actress  .
Besides her film  और  television appearances , she is best  ज्ञात  for  having   नौ  husbands , including  होटल  magnate Conrad Hilton  और  actor George Sanders .
She once stated  ,   ``  Men  have   सदा   liked  me  और  I  have   सदा  liked men  .
But  i  like  a   mannish  man , a man who knows how to talk  to   और   दावत  a woman  –   नहीं   बस  a  man  with  मांसपेशियां  . ''
ब्रूस  Lee ( traditional  :   李小龍  ; born  ली   jun-fan   ;  27 November  1940  –  20   जुलाई  1973 ) was  a  Chinese American  martial  artist  ,  actor , martial  कला  instructor  ,   पारस  , and  फिल्मकार  .
The  संस्थापक  of Jeet Kune Do , Lee was  the  son  of   cantonese   ओपेरा   स्टार  Lee Hoi-Chuen  .
he   is  widely  माना  by commentators  ,   आलोचकों  , media and  अन्य   martial  artists to be  एक  of the most  influential   martial   कलाकारों  of all  समय   ,  and  a  pop culture icon  of   the   20th   सदी  .
He is  प्रायः  credited  साथ   helping   to   बदलें  the way  एशियाइ   यहूद   प्रस्तुत  in  अमरीकी  films .
ली   थी  born  in  Chinatown  ,  San  फ्रांसिस्को  on 27  नवम्बर   1940   to   अभिभावक  from Hong Kong and was  उठाया  in  कोलून   साथ   उसके  family until his  लेट   किशोर  .
He  थी   introduced  to the film industry by  उसके   पिता  and  appeared   in   अनेक  films  as   a   चाइल्ड  actor  .
Lee moved to the United States at the age  of  18 to  प्राप्त   उसके  higher education  ,  and it  थी  during  इस   समय   कि   he  began teaching martial  कला  .
उसके  Hong  काँग  and Hollywood -produced  films  elevated the traditional Hong  काँग   martial  arts film to a new level  of  popularity and  acclaim   ,   sparking  a surge  of   ब्याज   in  Chinese  martial  arts  in   the   वेस्ट   in   the  1970s  .
The direction and tone of  उसके   films  changed and  बहकावे   martial  arts and  martial   कला  films in Hong Kong  और   the  rest of the  संसार  .
He is  विख्यात   लिये   उसके  roles in  पाँच   feature-length  films  :  Lo Wei  's   the  Big Boss  (  1971 )  और  Fist  of  Fury  (   1972   )   ;   रास्ता  of the  ड्रैगन   (   1972  )  ,  directed  और  written by  ली  ; Warner  भाइयो   '   डालें   the  Dragon (  1973  )  और   the  Game  of  Death ( 1978 )  ,   दोनो   निर्देशित   by   रॉबर्ट  Clouse .
Lee  became  an  iconic  figure known throughout the world  ,   विशेषकर   among   the   चाइनीज  ,  as  he portrayed Chinese  राष्ट्रवाद   in  his films .
He initially  प्रशिक्षित   in  Wing Chun , but  बाद  rejected well-defined  martial  art  शैलियाँ   ,   favouring   बजाय   the  use  of   तकनीकों   इससे   विभिन्न  sources , in the  स्पिरिट   of  his personal martial arts philosophy , which  he  dubbed  जीत  Kune Do (  the  Way of the Intercepting  मुट्ठी  )  .
Lee  आयोजित  dual  नागरिकता  of Hong Kong and the United States .
He died  in  Kowloon  टोंग   on   20  July 1973 at age 32 .
Chronic obstructive  pulmonary  disease (  copd   )  , also known as chronic  obstructive   फेफड़ों  disease ( COLD ) , chronic obstructive  airway  disease (  coad  )  ,  chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) and chronic obstructive  respiratory  disease ( CORD  )  ,  is   the   occurrence  of chronic bronchitis  or  emphysema  ,  a pair  of  commonly  co-existing   रोगों  of  the  lungs in which  the   एयरवेज़   सीमित  over time  .
इस   हद  airflow  to  and  इससे  the lungs  ,   causing  shortness  of   साँस  ( dyspnea )  .
in   नैदानिक   अभ्यास  ,  copd   is  defined  by  its  characteristically   कम  airflow  on  lung function tests .
In contrast  to  asthma  ,  this  limitation   is   poorly   reversible  and usually gets  progressively   बदतर   over   समय  .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas  ,  most commonly  इससे   तम्बाकू   धूम्रपान  , which triggers  an  abnormal inflammatory  जवाब   in   the   फेफड़ों  .
The diagnosis of COPD requires  फेफड़ों  function  परीक्षण  .
Important management strategies are smoking  cessation  , vaccinations  ,   पुनर्वास  ,  और  drug  चिकित्सा  ( often using inhalers ) .
Some  मरीजों   go  on to require long-term oxygen therapy  or  lung transplantation .
Worldwide , COPD  क्रमित   as   the  sixth leading cause of  मौत   in  1990 .
It is  प्रक्षिप्त   to   become   the  fourth  अग्रणी   कारण   of  death worldwide  by  2030 ,  due   to  an  बढ़ाएँ  in  धूम्रपान   दरों  and demographic changes  in   अनेक   देशों  .
COPD is  the  third leading cause of  मौत  in the  u.S.  , and  the  economic burden of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was  $  42.6 billion  in  health care costs and  खोया  productivity .
Annelies  ``  Anne '' Marie Frank  (  , ?  ,   ;  12  जून  1929early March 1945 ) is one of the most  discussed  Jewish victims of  the   holocaust   .
Her diary has been  the  basis for several plays  और   films  .
Born in  the  city  of  Frankfurt  am   प्रमुख   in  Weimar Germany , she lived  सबसे  of  उसके  life  in   or   निकट  Amsterdam , in  the   नीदरलैंड्स  .
Born  a  German  नेशनल  , Frank lost  उसके   नागरिकता   in  1941 .
वो   gained  international fame posthumously after her diary  थी   प्रकाशित   .
It documents her experiences hiding  दौरान  the German occupation of the Netherlands  in   संसार   युद्ध  II  .
The Frank family moved  इससे  Germany to  एम्सटर्डम  in  1933  , the year the  nazis   gained  control over Germany .
By the  शुरूआत  of 1940 , they were trapped in  एम्सटर्डम  by  the   नाजी  occupation of the Netherlands .
As persecutions of the Jewish population  increased   in   जुलाई  1942  ,  the  परिवार   गई  into  छुपाना  in the  छुपा  rooms  of   ऐनी   's  father ,  ओटो   फ़्रैंक  's , office  भवन  .
After  दो   सालो  , the  समूह   थी  betrayed  और   transported   to   विशेषज्ञता   शिविरों  .
Anne Frank and her  सिस्टर  , Margot  ,  were  आखिरकार  transferred to  the  Bergen-Belsen concentration camp , where they died  of  typhus  in   कूच   1945   .
Otto Frank  ,   the  only survivor  of   the  family , returned  to   एम्सटर्डम   बाद  the war to  ढूँढें  that  ऐनी   's   डायरी  had  महरूम  saved  ,   और  his efforts  led   to   इसके   प्रकाशन  in  1947  .
It  थी  translated from its original  डच  and first published  in  English in 1952 as  the  Diary  of   a  Young Girl  .
it  has since been  अनूदित  into many languages .
the  diary  ,   जिससे  was given to  ऐनी  on her 13th birthday  ,  chronicles her life from 12 June  1942   जबतक   1   अगस्त  1944  .
Kurt 's signature
कर्ट  Donald Cobain (  फ़रवरी   20   ,  1967 – April 5 , 1994 ) was an  अमरीकी  musician and artist ,  बेहतरीन  known  as  the lead singer , guitarist and primary songwriter  of  the grunge band  निर्वाण   .
Cobain  formed   निर्वाण  with Krist  novoselic  in  एबरडीन   ,  Washington in 1985  और  established it as part of the Seattle music  झाँकी  ,  having   इसके  debut  एल्बम  Bleach released  on  the  स्वतंत्र  record  लेबल   sub   पॉप  in 1989  .
After  हस्ताक्षर   साथ  major label DGC Records  ,  the band  मिला  breakthrough success  साथ  `` Smells  जैसे   टीन   स्पिरिट  `` from its  दूसरी  album  nevermind   (  1991 ) .
Following  the  success of Nevermind  ,  Nirvana was  labeled  `` the  फ्लैगशिप  band ''  of   पीढी  X  ,   और  Cobain hailed as ``  the   प्रवक्ता  of  a  generation '' .
कोबेन  ,  however  , was  प्रायः  uncomfortable  और  frustrated , believing his message  और   कलाकारी   दृष्टि   to   have  been misinterpreted by the  पब्लिक  , with his personal issues  प्रायः  subject  to   मीडिया  attention .
He challenged Nirvana  's  audience with its final studio album  in  Utero ( 1993  )  .
During the last years of his life ,  कोबेन  struggled with heroin addiction  ,   बीमारी  and depression  .
he   भी  had  परेशानी  coping with  उसके  fame  और  public image ,  और  the professional and lifelong personal  pressures  surrounding  खुद   और  his wife ,  संगीतकार   कोर्टनी  Love  .
On  अप्रैल  8  ,  1994 , Cobain was found dead at  उसके   घर  in Seattle  ,  the  शिकार   of  what  थी   officially  ruled a  आत्महत्या  by  a  self-inflicted  shotgun   घाव  to  the  head .
The circumstances  of  his  मौत   at  age 27 have become a  टॉपिक   of  public fascination  और  debate .
चूंकि  their debut , Nirvana  ,   साथ  Cobain  as   a  songwriter ,  रै   बेची   over  25 million albums  in   the  U.S.  ,   और   over   50  million  विश्वव्यापी   .
Radial  इंजन   समय  and  कैम  mechanism  .
Click  लिये  full  रेज़ोल्यूशन   एनिमेशन  .
Radial  इंजन   of  a biplane
Master rod  (   कतरा  )  ,   स्लेव   और  balances  इससे  a  two-row   ,  fourteen-cylinder Pratt  &  Whitney Twin Wasp
The radial  इंजन  is a reciprocating  प्रकार  internal  दहन  engine configuration in which the cylinders point  outward  from a  सेंट्रल  crankshaft  जैसे   the   तीलियां   of   a   व्हील   .
it  resembles a stylized star when  viewed  from the front ,  और   is   पुकारा   a   ``   स्टार  engine '' ( German Sternmotor  )  in some  भाषाएं   .
the  radial configuration  थी  very commonly  प्रयुक्त  in  वायुयान  engines  पहले  turbine engines  became  predominant  .
The  सुनहरी  Girls  is   an   अमरीकी   sitcom   ,  created by Susan  हैरिस  , that  originally   aired  on NBC from September 13  ,  1985 ,  to   may  9 , 1992  .
अभिनीत  Bea  आर्थर  ,  बेट्टी  White , Rue McClanahan and Estelle Getty  ,   the  show centers  on  four older women sharing  a  home in Miami ,  फ्लोरिडा  .
It  थी   उत्पादित  by Witt/Thomas/Harris  प्रोडक्शन्स   ,   in  association  साथ  Touchstone  टेलीविज़न  , and Paul  junger   witt  , Tony Thomas , and Harris served as the  असली   कार्यपालिका   निर्माता   .
The  सुनहरी   लड़कियों  received  नाजुक  acclaim throughout most of its  चलाएं   और   जीती   अनेक  awards ,  सहित  the  प्राइमटाइम   एमी   पुरस्कार  for  बकाया   कॉमेडी  Series twice .
It  भी   जीती  three Golden  ग्लोब   पुरस्कार  for  बेहतरीन  Television Series – Musical or  कॉमेडी  .
All four  सितारों  each received  an  Emmy Award throughout  the   श्रेणी  '  चलाएं   और  had multiple  nominations  .
The series  भी  ranked  among  the top  टेन  highest-rated  कार्यक्रम  for  छह  out  of   इसके  seven  सीज़न  .
deepwater   खुदाई   is   the  process of oil  और   गैस  exploration  और   उत्पादन  in  गहराइयों  of  अधिक  than 500  फीट   .
by  this definition , there are approximately 600  deepwater   कुएं   in  the Gulf of Mexico  .
it  has  महरूम   economically  infeasible  लिये  many years ,  लकिन   साथ  rising  आयल   कीमतें  ,  अधिक   कंपनियाँ   हैं   निवेश  in  इस   क्षेत्रफल   .
प्रमुख  companies working  in   इस  sector  शामिल  Diamond  offshore  , TransOcean  ,   और  Baker Hughes .
There  हैं   मूलरूप   दो  kinds  of   मोबाईल   deepwater   खुदाई   rigs   :  semi-submersible drilling  rigs   और   drillships   .
Drilling can also  be  performed from  a   fixed-position   संस्थापना  such as  a  floating spar  (   मंच   )   or  tension-leg platform .
हाल  industry analysis  रै   अनुमानित  that the total  व्यय   in   the  global deepwater  अवसंरचना  market will reach  $   145bn  in  2011  .
“Not  सब   आयल  is accessible on land  or  in shallow water .
तुम  can  ढूँढें  some oil  जमा  buried  गहन  under  the   समंदर  floor.” ...  using   सोनिक  equipment , oil companies determine  the   खुदाई   साइट  most  संभावित   to   उपज  oil .
Then they  उपयोग   a   मोबाईल  offshore  खुदाई  unit ( MODU  )  to  खुदाई   the  initial well  .
कुछ   इकाई  are  परिवर्तित  into production rigs  ,  meaning they switch from  खुदाई   लिये  oil to  capturing   आयल  once  it   's  found  .
सबसे  of the time  ,   the   आयल  company will replace  the  MODU with a  अधिक  permanent oil production  रिग  to  कैप्चर   oil.”  ... The MODU 's job is to drill down into  the   समंदर   's   मंजिल  to find oil deposits .
The part of the  ड्रिल   कि  extends below  the  deck and through  the   जल   is   पुकारा   the  riser .
the   riser  allows  लिये  drilling fluids to move  between   the  floor  और   the   रिग  .
इंजीनियर्स  lower a  ड्रिल   स्ट्रिंग  -- a series of  पाइप  designed to  ड्रिल   bas  to  the  oil deposit -- through  the   riser.”
“The expansion of  deepwater   खुदाई  is happening despite accidents in  offshore  fields  ...  ”
in  2010  a   विशाल  explosion occurred killing  11   मजदूर  and  spilling  millions of gallons  of  oil into the  गल्फ  of  मैक्सिको   जबकि   a   bp  oil rig was drilling  in  deep  waters   .
“   ...  Despite the  risks  , the  deepwater   खुदाई   ट्रेंड  is spreading  in  the Mediterranean  और  off the coast of  ईस्ट   अफ़्रीकी  after a string of  विशाल   discoveries  of  प्राकृतिक  gas.”
“the  reason  लिये   the  resumption of  ऐसे   खुदाई  , analyst say , is continuing high demand for energy worldwide.”
America needs  the  oil  so   it  is almost  जरुरी  to face  the  high risks  कि  come with deepwater drilling in order  लिये  Americans to  continue   to  carry on their  रोज   जीवनदान   .
“The  उर्जा   विभाग   recently   प्रक्षिप्त   कि   गल्फ  oil  उत्पादन  would expand  इससे  its 2011 level  of  1.3 million barrels a day , still nearly a quarter  of   कुल   घरेलू   उत्पादन   ,  to  2  million  barrels   a  day  by   2020.”
deepwater   खुदाई  affects the  पर्यावरण  in  दोनो  negative and  धनात्मक  ways .
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes  आयल  spills  it  is still  a   hazardous  possible  निष्कर्ष  .
आयल  spills  परिणाम  in oil  डूब   to  the  नीचे  of the  समंदर  smothering plant life leaving fish without food and  आश्रय  to  जीवित  .
on  the other  हाथ  deepwater drilling  प्रभाव   the  environment  in  a positive  तरीके  too  .
In  समय   एकबार   the  deepwater oil well is not in use  anymore  plants  होगा   grow   on  and  around  the well  बनाना   a  cave or cavern like shelter ideal  लिये   पशु  to thrive in .
deepwater  drilling also  lets   us   देखिए  the  गहराइयों  of the  समंदर  floor that  हैं  hardly  कभी  seen .
”cameras  on  रोवर्स   at  the bottom  of  the wells record  फुटेज   और   लो   फ़ोटो   of  rare  मछली  that are in there natural habitat , giving scientist  a   dekh  at animals they rarely  seen”  ( Chevron  निगम  ) . ''
मोनिका  Samille  lewinsky  (  born  July 23  ,   1973  ) is an American woman with  जिसको   संयुक्त  States  अध्यक्ष   विधेयक  Clinton  admitted  to having  था  an `` improper relationship  ''  while  वो  worked at the  श्वेत  House  in  1995  और   1996   .
The  affair  and its repercussions  (   जिससे  included Clinton 's  महाभियोग  )  became   ज्ञात   as   the  Lewinsky scandal .
Francis Albert  ``  Frank '' Sinatra , ,  (   दिसम्बर   12   ,   1915  – May  14  , 1998  )  was  an  American  सिंगर  and film  कर्ता  .
शुरूआत   उसके  musical career  in  the  झूले  era with  हैरी  James  और  Tommy  dorsey   ,  Sinatra  मिला  unprecedented  कामयाबी  as  a   सोलो   कलाकार  from the  जल्दी  to  mid-1940s  after  होने  signed  to   कोलंबिया  Records  in  1943 .
Being the  आइडल   of   the   ``  bobby  soxers  `` , he  released   उसके  first album ,  the  Voice of Frank  सिनात्रा  in 1946  .
His professional career had  stalled  by  the  1950s , but it was reborn  in  1953  बाद  he won  the  Academy Award for  बेहतरीन   supporting  Actor for his  प्रदर्शन   in   इससे   यहाँ   to  Eternity  .
he  signed with Capitol  रिकॉर्ड   in   1953  and released several critically lauded albums (  ऐसे   as  In  the  Wee Small  घंटों  , Songs  लिये  Swingin '  प्रेमियों  ! ,  आइये   मक्खी  with Me , Only the Lonely and  nice  'n  '  Easy  )   .
Sinatra  बाएँ  Capitol to found his own record  लेबल  , Reprise  रिकॉर्ड  in  1961  (  ढूंढना   कामयाबी  with  एल्बम   ऐसे   as  Ring-a-Ding-Ding  !  , Sinatra at  the  Sands and Francis  अल्बर्ट  Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim  )   ,  toured internationally ,  थी   a   founding   सदस्य   of   the  Rat Pack  और  fraternized with celebrities and statesmen ,  सहित   जॉन  F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective  सितंबर  of My  सालो  ,  स्ट्रक्चर   in  the Emmy  -winning  television  खास  Frank Sinatra :  a   man   और  His Music , and  scored  hits  साथ  `` Strangers  in  the  रात्रि   ``  and  ``  My  रास्ता  ``  .
With sales  of  his  म्यूज़िक   dwindling  and after  appearing   in  several poorly received  films  ,  सिनात्रा  retired  लिये  the first time  in   1971  .
Two years later  ,   however  , he  आए  out of  रिटायरमेंट  and in  1973  recorded  अनेक  albums  ,  scoring a Top 40 hit with ``  (  Theme From )  नई  York  ,  New York  ``  in  1980  .
Using his  लास  Vegas shows as a home  आधार  , he  toured   दोनो   भीतर  the  संयुक्त  States and internationally , until a short time before  उसके   मौत  in 1998  .
Sinatra  भी   forged  a highly successful  करियर  as a film actor .
बाद  winning  बेहतरीन   supporting   कर्ता  in  1953  ,  he  also garnered a  नामांकन  for Best Actor  लिये  The Man  साथ   the   सुनहरी  Arm  ,   और  critical acclaim  लिये  his  प्रदर्शन  in The Manchurian Candidate .
he  also  स्ट्रक्चर   in  such  musicals   as  High  समाज   ,   pal  Joey  ,  Guys  और   डॉल  and On  the  Town .
Sinatra was honored  at   the   कैनेडी   बीच   honors   in  1983  और  was awarded  the   अध्यक्षीय   पदक  of Freedom  by   रोनाल्ड   reagan   in   1985  and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997 .
He was  the   प्राप्तकर्ता  of eleven  ग्रैमी   पुरस्कार  ,  सहित  the  ग्रैमी  Trustees  पुरस्कार  , Grammy  लेजेंड   पुरस्कार   और  the Grammy  आजीवन  Achievement Award  .
Sinatra is also  एक  of  world’s  best-selling artists  of  all  समय  ,  having   बेची   अधिक  than  150   लाख   नक़ल  worldwide  .
Typical cornhole board
cornhole   ,   भी   ज्ञात   as   सेम   थैला   टॉस  ,  मकई   टॉस  ,  baggo   or  bags  ,  is  a  lawn  खेल  in which players  लो  turns throwing corn hole bags at  a  raised platform with a hole  in  the  दूर  end  .
A  थैला  in  the   छेद  scores  3   अंक   ,  while  एक  on  the   मंच   स्कोर   1   पाइंट  .
Play continues until a team or  खिलाड़ी  reaches the score of  21  .
The American  सुनहरा   त्रिभुज   is   an  official  सुनहरा  bullion  सिक्का   of   the   संयुक्त   राज्य  .
Authorized under the  सुनहरा  Bullion Coin Act of  1985  , it was first released by  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   मिंट  in  1986  .
Bikram  योग  is a  प्रणाली  of  योग   कि  Bikram  choudhury  synthesized from traditional hatha  योग  techniques  और   popularized   शुरूआत   in  the early 1970s  .
All Bikram Yoga classes run for  90  minutes and  consist  of  the  same series of  26   postures  and  2  breathing exercises .
बिक्रम  Yoga is ideally  practiced  in a  रूम  heated  to  105°F  (  ≈  40.6°c  ) with  a  humidity of 40  %  ,  .
Christopher  माइकल   massey   (   born   26   जनवरी   1990  ) is an American actor , comedian  और  rapper best  ज्ञात   लिये   अभिनीत  as Michael  barret  in Nickelodeon  टेलीविज़न  series Zoey 101  .
massey  has  प्राप्त  many  पुरस्कार  and nomination including  a  Young  कलाकार  Award and  एमी  Awards  nominations   .
He is  भी  known  लिये  appearing  in   अनेक   commercials   in  the early 2000s  .
A  conventional  teaspoon made  of   बेदाग   स्टील   .
A  teaspoon   is   an   मद   of  cutlery and/or  a   measuring  instrument ,  as  well as a  ईकाई  of measurement of  आवाज़  in some countries  और  customs .
A  फर्न  is any  एक   or   अधिक   of   a   समूह  of about 12,000 species  of   पौधे  belonging to the botanical  समूह   ज्ञात  as Pteridophyta  .
नापसंद  mosses , they have  जाइलम  and  फ्लोएम  (  बनाना  them vascular  पौधे  )  .
They have  तना   ,  leaves , and roots like  अन्य  vascular plants .
Ferns reproduce via  बीजाणुओं  and have neither  बीज   nor   पुष्प  .
By far the largest  समूह  of ferns  is   the  leptosporangiate ferns , but ferns  as   पारिभाषित   यहाँ   (  also  पुकारा  monilophytes  )   शामिल  horsetails , whisk ferns  ,  marattioid ferns  ,  and  ophioglossoid   ferns   .
the  term pteridophyte also refers to ferns  और  a  few  other  बीजरहित  vascular plants  (   देखिए  classification section below  )  .
Ferns first  appear   in  the fossil record 360 million years ago in the  carboniferous   लकिन  many of  the  current families and species  किया   नहीं  appear until roughly 145 million years ago in the  जल्दी  Cretaceous (  बाद  flowering  पौधे  came to dominate  अनेक  environments ) .
Ferns  हैं  not  of  major economic importance , but some  हैं  grown or  gathered   लिये  food  ,  as  शोभायमान   पौधे  , for remediating contaminated soils  ,   और  have been  the  subject of  शोध  for their ability  to  remove some chemical pollutants from  the  air .
Some are significant weeds .
They also play a role  in  mythology  ,   आयुर्विज्ञान   ,  and art  .
Flat roofs  in   इसराईल
Flat roof  in  Los  एंजिल्स
A flat roof is  a  type  of   covering   लिये  a building  .
in  contrast to the more  sloped  form  of  roof ,  a  flat roof is horizontal  or  nearly horizontal .
The slope  of  a roof is  properly  known as its pitch  :   roofs   जिससे   हैं  nearly flat are  ज्ञात  as low-pitch roofs  (   as   the  angle  of  slope increases ,  so  the pitch is said  to  increase  )  .
कोई  sheet of material used  to   कवर  a  चपटा   or  low-pitched  छत   is  usually known  as   a   झिल्ली  and  the  primary purpose  of   ये   झिल्लियों  is  to  waterproof the roof area .
Materials that cover flat  roofs   typically  allow the water to run off from a  पतला  inclination or  camber   into  a gutter system  .
Water from some  चपटा   roofs  such  as   on   गार्डन  sheds  sometimes  flows freely off the edge  of   a  roof  ,   हालांकि   gutter  systems  हैं  of advantage  in  keeping  दोनो   दीवारें  and  मूलाधार  dry  .
Gutters on  छोटी   roofs  often lead water directly  onto  the ground  ,  or better ,  into  a specially made soakaway  .
ड्रेनेज   on   larger  roofs  प्रायः   सीसे   जल  into  the   rainwater  drainage  प्रणाली  of  कोई  built up  क्षेत्रफल   .
occasionally   चपटा   roofs   हालांकि  are  designed   to  collect  जल  in a  पूल  , usually for  aesthetic  purposes  ,  or for rainwater buffering .
चपटा   roofs  exist  सब   over  the world and each area has its own tradition  or   वरीयता  for  सामग्री  used .
In warmer climes  जहाँ  rainfall is less  और  freezing  is   असंभावित  to occur , many flat roofs are  बस  built  of   चिनाई  or  कंक्रीट   और  this  is   शुभ   at   keeping  out  the  heat  of  the  सूर्य   और  cheap and easy to build where timber is not  readily   उपलब्धियाँ  .
In  क्षेत्रों   जहाँ  the roof could become  संतृप्त   by  rain  और   लीक  ,  or  where water  soaked  into the  brickwork  could freeze  to  ice and thus  सीसे   to  'blowing  '   (  breaking up  of   the  mortar/brickwork/concrete  by  the expansion  of   बर्फ  as  it   फ़ॉर्म   )   ये  roofs are  नहीं  suitable .
Traditionally most flat roofs in the western  संसार  make use of  तारकोल   or  more  प्रायः   तारकोल  paper applied  over  roof decking to keep  a  building  watertight  .
The tar  or   tarpaper  is in turn covered  in   बजरी  to  रखना   the  sun 's heat ,  uv   किरणें  and  मौसम   बंद   it  and  helps  protect it  इससे   cracking   or   blistering   और  degradation .
Roof decking is  प्रायः   of  plywood  ,  chipboard or OSB boards ( OSB  =   उन्मुख  Strand  फलक   ,  also known  as   स्टर्लिंग  board  )   of  around 18mm  मोटाई  .
The tar coating  is   लागू  in  एक  or more  coats   as   a   hot   द्रव   ,  heated in a  तारकोल   केतली  , or as  चादरें  of  तारकोल   impregnated   'paper   '   चिपके   bas  and sealed together at  joints  by hot tar -  एकबार  it  रै   cooled   ,   the  gravel is spread evenly over  it   .
A main reason  लिये  failure  of   ये   परंपरागत  roofs  is   अनभिज्ञता   or   कमी  of  मेंटेनेंस  where people or  कार्यक्रम  cause the  बजरी   to  be moved or  removed   इससे  the  तारकोल   or   tarpaper  waterproofing ,  यूँ  exposing it to weather  और  sun whereupon cracking and  blistering   occurs   over  time  और  eventually  जल  gets in  .
tarpaper   is  usually  a  'paper '  or  fibre  सामग्री   soaked   or  impregnated in tar .
as  gravel  can  not protect tarpaper surfaces where  वे  rise  खड़ा  from the roof such  as  on  मुंडेर  walls or upstands  ,  tarpaper  विसंगतियाँ  are  उत्पादित  with fine gravel applied  to   the  hot tar during the  प्रक्रम  of  manufacture  such that a  स्थाई  layer of  बजरी  is stuck  to  it  in  order to give it  जारी   सुरक्षा   .
tarpapers  vary  in   विशेषता  as does the  कारीगरी  and training  of   those  applying  it  to  उपज   अधिक   or   कम  successful results  .
In some  सूक्ष्म   climates  or shaded areas  ये   बल्कि  'basic ' tarpaper roofs  can   पिछला   खूब  in relation to  the   लागत  of materials  खरीदें  and cost  of  laying them  ,   however  the  लागत  of modern membranes such  as  EPDM has come down  over   हाल  years to  मेक   उन्हें  more  और   अधिक  affordable .
There  हैं  now  अधिक  firms supplying modern  विकल्प  and there is generally  a  growing  जागरूकता  of their  प्रदर्शन   और  availability .
If a  लीक  does  occur   on  a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed  लिये   long   अवधि  of  समय   दौरान  which  जल  penetrates and  soaks  the decking and  कोई  insulation and/or  ढांचा  beneath  it  .
This can lead to expensive damage from the  दुर्गन्ध   जिससे  often develops  और  if left can weaken the roof structure  .
There  हैं   भी  various health  risks   to   लोगों   और   पशु  breathing  the   सांचे  spores  :   the  severity  of   इस   स्वास्थ्य  risk  remains   a  debated point  .
One problem  साथ   maintaining   चपटा  roofs  is   कि   if   जल  does penetrate the barrier covering  (   be  it traditional or a  आधुनिक   झिल्ली  )  it  can travel  a   long  way before  causing  visible  क्षति   or   टपकती  into  a  building  जहाँ  it  can  be seen .
यूँ  it  is  not  आसान   to  see where it is  टपकती  in  अनुक्रम   to  repair  it   .
एकबार   underlying   छत  decking is soaked  it   प्रायः  sags causing a  further   संग्रहण  or  puddling  of water  in   कि  area and the  प्रॉब्लम  worsens .
A CD-ROM ( ) is  a  pre-pressed compact disc which  contains  data  .
the  name is an  एक्रोनिम  which stands for  ``  Compact Disc  read-only   मेमोरी  `` .
Computers  can  read  cd-roms   ,   लकिन  can  नहीं  write  on  them .
cd-roms  are popularly used  to  distribute  कंप्यूटर  software , including video games  और   मल्टीमीडिया   अनुप्रयोग   ,   हालांकि  any data can be stored  (  up to the  क्षमता  limit of a  डिस्क   )   .
Some  cds  , called enhanced CDs , hold both computer  आंकड़ा  and audio  साथ  the  latter   सक्षम   of   होने  played on a CD player  ,   जबकि   आंकड़ा  (  ऐसे  as software  or  digital video ) is  तभी  usable  on  a  कंप्यूटर  ( such as  आईएसओ  9660 format  pc  CD-ROMs ) .
The  पीला  Book is  the  technical standard that  defines   the  format of CD-ROMs .
एक  of  a   नियत  of color-bound books that  contain  the  तकनीकी  specifications  लिये   सब   cd   स्वरुप  , the Yellow  किताब  ,  निर्मित  by Sony and  फिलिप्स   ,  was  the  first  एक्सटेंशन   of  Compact  डिस्क   डिजिटल   ऑडियो  .
it   adapted  the  स्वरूप  to hold any form of  आंकड़ा   .
Joanne `` Jo ''  रोलिंग  ( )  ,  (  born  31 July 1965  )  ,  कलम   नाम  J.  K.  Rowling ,  is   a  British  उपन्यासकार  , best  ज्ञात   as   the  author  of   the   हैरी  Potter  काल्पनिक   श्रेणी  .
the  Potter  किताबे   have   gained   विश्वव्यापी  attention , won  अनेक   पुरस्कार  ,  और  sold  अधिक   than  400 million  नक़ल   .
They have become the best-selling  किताब  series in history  ,   और   महरूम  the  आधार  for a series  of  films which has become the highest-grossing  फिल्मी   श्रेणी  in history .
Rowling had overall approval on  the  scripts as well as maintaining  रचनात्मक   कंट्रोल   by  serving as a producer  on   the  final instalment  .
Born  in   yate   ,  Gloucestershire ,  रोलिंग  was  working  as a  शोधकर्ता  and  दुभाषिया  secretary for  माफ़ी   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  when she  conceived   the  idea  लिये  the Harry Potter series on  a  delayed train  इससे   मैनचेस्टर  to London  in  1990 .
the   seven-year  period that  followed  entailed the death  of  her  माँ   ,  divorce from  उसके   पहला   husband   और  poverty until Rowling  समाप्त   the   पहला   अनोखा  in the series , Harry  कुम्हार  and the  पारस  's  स्टोन   (  1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6 sequels—the  पिछला  , Harry  कुम्हार  and the  deathly   hallows  (  2007  ) —as well as  3  supplements to  the  series .
in  2012 , Rowling  parted  with  उसके   एजेंसी  and resumed writing in the  रूप   of  a tragicomedy novel  aimed   at   वयस्क  readership , entitled The Casual Vacancy  .
Rowling  रै  said  वो  is currently working  on  two books—one  aimed  for adults  ,  the other for children  younger  than the Harry Potter  दर्शक  , and she expects the  latter  to be published first  .
रोलिंग  has led a  ``  rags  to  riches  ``  life  स्टोरी  , in  जिससे  she progressed from living  on   राज्य  benefits to  multi-millionaire  status within five years .
She is  the  United  किंगडम  's  best-selling  author since records began  ,  with  बिक्री  in excess  of   £238m   .
The  2008  Sunday Times  समृद्ध  List  अनुमानित  Rowling 's  सौभाग्य  at £560 million (  $   798   लाख  )  ,   रैंकिंग  her  as  the  बारहवीं  richest  स्त्री   in   the  United  किंगडम  .
Forbes  क्रमित  Rowling as  the  forty-eighth  सबसे  powerful  हस्ती   of   2007  ,  और  TIME magazine  नामित  her as a runner-up for  इसके  2007  व्यक्ति  of the  साल  , noting the social , moral , and  राजनैतिक  inspiration she has given her fans .
In  अक्तूबर  2010 , Rowling was named the  ``  Most Influential Woman in  ब्रिटेन   ''   by  leading  पत्रिका  editors  .
She  रै  become a notable philanthropist  ,   supporting  such charities  as  Comic  राहत  ,  एक   जनक  Families  ,  Multiple Sclerosis  समाज   of   ग्रेट  Britain and Lumos (  formerly  the Children  's  High Level  समूह   )   .
Auburndale is a city in  polk   काउंटी   ,   फ्लोरिडा  ,  संयुक्त  States .
the  population was 11,032 at  the   2000  census  .
According to  the   u.s   जनसांख्यिकी  estimates  of  2005  ,  the  नगर  had a population  of  12,381 .
it   is  part  of   the  Lakeland – Winter  हेवन   महानगर   सांख्यिकीय  Area  .
hurricane  Isabel ( 2003  )   as  seen  इससे   कक्षा  during  expedition   7  of the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   स्पेस  Station .
The eye  ,  eyewall , and surrounding  rainbands  , characteristics of tropical  cyclones  , are  clearly  visible in  इस  view  इससे  space  .
a  tropical cyclone  is  a storm  प्रणाली  characterized by a low-pressure  बीच   घिरी   by  a spiral arrangement of  thunderstorms  that produce  दमदार  winds and heavy rain .
तीव्र   cyclones   strengthen   जब   जल   काफूर   इससे   the   समंदर  is  released  as the saturated air rises  ,  resulting in  संघनन  of water vapor contained  in   the   नम  air  .
वे  are  fueled  by  a  different heat  यांत्रिकी   than   अन्य  cyclonic windstorms  ऐसे  as  nor'easters   ,   यूरोपीय   windstorms  , and  ध्रुवीय  lows .
The characteristic  कि  separates  तीव्र  cyclones  इससे  other cyclonic systems is  कि   at   कोई   ऊँचाई  in the  माहौल  , the center of a  तीव्र  cyclone  होगा   be  warmer  than   इसके  surroundings ; a  घटना   पुकारा  `` warm  कोर  ``  तूफ़ान   प्रणालियों  .
The  पद  `` tropical ''  refers  both to the geographical  उत्पत्ति  of  ये   प्रणालियों  , which usually form  in   तीव्र   regions   of   the  globe  ,  and to their formation  in   मेरीटाइम   तीव्र   एयर  masses .
the  term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic  प्रकृति  , with counterclockwise wind flow in the  उत्तरी  Hemisphere and clockwise  हवा  flow in the Southern  गोलार्ध   .
the   विपरीत  direction  of  the  हवा   प्रवाह  is a  परिणाम   of  the  कॉरिऑलिस  force .
Depending on  इसके  location and strength  ,   a  tropical  चक्रवात   is  referred to by  names  such as  hurricane  (  ,   )   ,  typhoon ( ) ,  तीव्र  storm ,  cyclonic  storm , tropical  अवसाद  , and  बस   चक्रवात   .
While tropical  cyclones  can produce extremely  शक्तिशाली   हवाएँ  and  मूसलाधार   बरसात  , they  हैं  also  समर्थ  to produce  ऊँची  waves  ,  damaging storm  surge  , and tornadoes .
They develop over large  लाशें  of warm water , and  खोना   उनके   शक्ति  if they move over land  due   to   increased  surface friction  और   घाटा   of  the warm ocean  as   an   उर्जा   सोर्स   .
इस   is   क्यों  coastal  regions  can  प्राप्त  significant damage  इससे   a  tropical  चक्रवात   ,  while inland  regions   हैं   अपेक्षाकृत  safe  इससे  receiving strong  हवाएँ  .
भारी   rains  ,  however  , can produce  significant   बाढ़  inland  ,  and  तूफ़ान   surges  can  उपज   extensive   तटीय   बाढ़   up   to  from the coastline .
हालांकि   उनके  effects on  इंसान   populations  can  be   विनाशकारी  , tropical cyclones can  relieve  drought conditions  .
वे   भी  carry heat  उर्जा   दूर  from the tropics  और  transport  it   toward   शीतोष्ण  latitudes  ,  which makes  उन्हें   an  important part of  the   वैश्विक   वायुमंडलीय  circulation mechanism  .
As a result , tropical cyclones help to maintain  संतुलन  in the Earth  's  troposphere , and to maintain  a   अपेक्षाकृत   stable   और   गरम   तापमान  worldwide  .
Many  तीव्र  cyclones develop  जब   the   वायुमंडलीय  conditions  around  a weak  disturbance  in  the   माहौल  are favorable  .
The background environment  is  modulated  by  climatological cycles  और   पैटर्न   ऐसे  as  the   madden-julian   दोलन   ,   el   niño-southern  Oscillation  ,   और   the  Atlantic multidecadal  दोलन   .
Others form  जब  other types of cyclones acquire tropical  विशेषताएँ   .
Tropical systems are then moved by  परिचालन  winds in the troposphere ;  if   the  conditions remain favorable ,  the  tropical disturbance intensifies ,  और  can even  develop  an eye  .
On the other  समाप्त   of  the spectrum ,  if  the  शर्तें  around  the   प्रणाली   deteriorate  or the tropical  चक्रवात   makes  landfall  ,   the   प्रणाली   weakens   और   आखिरकार  dissipates .
it  is not possible  to   artificially   induce   the  dissipation of  ये   प्रणालियों  with  वर्तमान   प्रौद्योगिकी  .
Kirk Douglas  (   born   issur  Danielovitch ,  ;   दिसम्बर  9  ,  1916  )   is   an   अमरीकी  stage  और   फिल्मी  actor  ,   फिल्मी  producer and author .
उसके  popular films  शामिल   आउट  of the Past  (   1947  ) , Champion  (  1949 ) , Ace  in  the  छेद  ( 1951 ) , The  ख़राब  and the Beautiful (  1952  ) , 20,000  लीग   अंतर्गत  the Sea ( 1954 )  ,   हवस  for Life (  1956   )   ,   राहें   of  Glory  (   1957  )  ,   gunfight  at  the   o.k  . Corral (  1957   )  , The Vikings  (   1958  ) ,  स्पार्टाकस  (  1960  ) , Lonely  हैं   the  Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven Days  in   may  (  1964   )   ,  The Heroes of  telemark  ( 1965 ) and  मुश्किल  Guys (  1986  ) .
he  is  no.17   on  the  अमरीकी   फिल्मी  Institute 's  सूची   of  the greatest male American  स्क्रीन   महापुरूष   of   सब  time , making him the highest-ranked  जीना   व्यक्ति  on  the   सूची  .
in  1996  ,   he  received  the  Academy  मानद  Award ``  लिये  50  सालो  as a  रचनात्मक  and moral  फ़ोर्स   in  the motion picture community .  ''
he  is one of  the  last  surviving  actors  इससे  Hollywood 's ``  सुनहरी   आयु  ''  .
Robert Clark `` Bob  ''   seger   (  born  may  6  ,   1945  )  is  an  अमरीकी  rock and roll  singer-songwriter  , guitarist and pianist .
as  a locally successful Detroit-area  कलाकार  ,  he   performed  and recorded  as  Bob  seger  and  the   पिछला   सुना  and  bob  Seger System throughout  the  1960s .
by   the  early 1970s ,  he   था   dropped  the ``  प्रणाली  '' from  उसके   रिकार्डिंग  and continued to  नीयत   लिये   broader   कामयाबी   साथ  other various bands .
In 1973  ,  he  put   साथ  The Silver  गोली  Band , a  समूह  of Detroit-area  संगीतकारों  , with whom he became most successful  on  the national level  साथ  the album Live Bullet  ,  recorded  सजीव  with the  चांदी  Bullet  बैंड   in   1975   at  Cobo  हॉल   in  Detroit , Michigan .
In 1976 , he achieved  a   नेशनल  breakout  साथ   the   स्टुडियो  album Night Moves .
on  his  स्टुडियो  albums , he  भी   worked  extensively  साथ  the Alabama-based  मांसपेशी   shoals  Rhythm  खण्ड  , which  appeared   on   अनेक  of Seger  's  best-selling singles  और  albums  .
A roots  रॉकर   साथ  a classic  raspy   ,   चिल्लाना  voice ,  seger   लिखा   और  recorded  गीतों   कि   dealt  with  प्रेम   ,  women , blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of  heartland  rock .
Seger  रै  recorded many hits , including  ``   रात्रि   चालें  , '' `` Turn  the   पेज   ,   ''   ``  We  've  Got Tonight  ,   ''   ``   विरूद्ध   the   हवा   ,  ''  और   shakedown   कि   थी   लिखा  for  बेवर्ली   पहाड़ियाँ  Cop II  और  ``  जैसे  a Rock , '' and  भी   co-wrote  the Eagles '  number-one   hit  `` Heartache Tonight .  ''
His iconic recording of `` Old Time Rock  और  Roll  ``  was named one of the Songs  of  the Century in 2001  .
With a  करियर  spanning  पाँच  decades  ,  Seger continues  to   perform   और   रिकार्ड  today .
seger  was inducted  into  the Rock and  फेंकें  Hall of  कीर्ति  in  2004  and  the   songwriters   हॉल   of   कीर्ति  in  2012  .
रिचर्ड  Milhous  निक्सन  ( January 9 ,  1913   –  April 22 , 1994 )  थी   the   37th  President of the United  राज्य  ,  सेवारत  from 1969 to  1974   ,   जब  he became the  तभी   अध्यक्ष  to resign  the  office  .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative  और   सीनेटर  from  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   और  as the 36th  वाइस  President of the United  राज्य  from 1953 to  1961   .
Nixon was born in  yorba  Linda ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
he  graduated  इससे   whittier  College in 1934 and  ड्यूक   विश्वविद्यालयों  School of  विधि   in   1937   ,  returning  to   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  to practice law  .
He and his wife ,  पैट   निक्सन  ,  स्थानांतरित  to Washington to work for  the   संघीय   सरकारी  in  1942   .
he  subsequently served in the  संयुक्त  States Navy  दौरान  World  युद्ध  II  .
Nixon  थी  elected in California to the  हाउस   of   प्रतिनिधि   in   1946   और   to   the   सीनेट   in  1950  .
His  pursuit  of  the  Alger  hiss   मामला  established  उसके  reputation  as  a leading  anti-communist  ,  और   elevated  him to national  prominence   .
he  was the  कार्यशील   mate  of Dwight D. Eisenhower  ,  the Republican  पार्टी   अध्यक्षीय  nominee in the  1952   चुनाव  .
निक्सन   परोसा  for eight years as vice  अध्यक्ष  .
He waged  an  unsuccessful presidential  अभियान   in   1960   ,   narrowly   खोने  to  जॉन   F.  Kennedy ,  और   खोया  a  रेस   लिये   राज्यपाल   of  California in  1962  .
In 1968  ,  he ran  again  for the presidency  और  was elected .
Although  निक्सन   initially  escalated America 's  भागीदारी  in  the   वियतनाम  War ,  he  subsequently ended  u.S.   भागीदारी  in  1973   .
निक्सन   's   विज़िट  to  the   लोगों   's   गणतंत्र  of  चीन  in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between  the   दो  nations ,  और  he initiated détente and  the   anti-ballistic  Missile  सन्धि  with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his  प्रशासन  generally embraced policies that transferred  शक्ति  from  वॉशिंगटन  to the  राज्य  .
Among other  बाते   ,   he  launched initiatives to  लड़ो  cancer  और   illegal  drugs , imposed  मजदूरी   और   दाम   नियंत्रण  , enforced desegregation of some Southern schools  ,   और   स्थापित  the Environmental Protection Agency  .
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning  साथ   अपोलो  11 ,  he  scaled  वापस   मानवयुक्त  space exploration  .
He was re-elected  by  a landslide in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab  आयल   embargo  ,  the   इस्तीफा   of  his  वाइस  president  ,   spiro   agnew  , and a  continuing  series of revelations about  the  Watergate scandal and  अन्य  misconduct by  सदस्यों  of the  प्रशासन   .
the   कांड   escalated   ,   costing  Nixon much  of  his political  support   ,  and on August  9  , 1974 ,  he  resigned in the face  of  almost  निश्चित  impeachment  और   हटाना  from office .
After his  इस्तीफा   ,   he  controversially received  a   pardon  issued by his successor  ,  Gerald  घाट   .
In retirement , Nixon 's  कार्य   as   an  elder  statesman   ,  authoring several  किताबे   और  undertaking many foreign  यात्राएँ   ,  helped to  rehabilitate  his  पब्लिक  image .
he  suffered a  debilitating  stroke on  अप्रैल  18 ,  1994  ,  और  died  चार  days  बाद   at   the  age of 81 .
{ { Infobox  सीनेटर
the  Dominican Republic annexation  सन्धि  caused bitter  contention  between President Grant  और  Sen. Sumner .
Brady 1869  ]  ]
sen.  Sumner , opposed to American imperialism  in   the  Caribbean and  fearful  that  annexation  would lead to  the  conquest of the  neighboring  black republic  of   हैती   ,  became convinced  कि   भ्रष्टाचार  lay behind  the   सन्धि   ,  and that  मेन  close to  the  president  साझा   in  the corruption .
As chairman  of  the Senate  विदेशी  Relations Committee , Sen.  sumner   initially   withheld   उसके  opinion on  the  treaty on  जनवरी  18 , 1870  .
Sen.  sumner  had  महरूम  leaked  सूचना   इससे  Assistant Secretary  of   राज्य  , Bancroft Davis ,  कि   u.s   .  Naval ships  यहूद   होने   प्रयुक्त  to  protect  President  báez  .
sen.  Sumner 's committee  voted   विरूद्ध   annexation  and at Sen.  sumner’s  suggestion  और  quite  संभवतः   to  save the  पार्टी   इससे  an  भद्दा  fight or  the  president from  शर्मिंदगी  ,  the  Senate  आयोजित  its debate of the  सन्धि  behind  बंद  doors  in   कार्यपालिका   सत्र  .
President Grant persisted  और  sent  संदेश  to  कॉंग्रेस  in favor  of  annexation on March 14 ,  1870  ,  और  May  31  , 1870  .
In closed session  ,  Sen. Sumner spoke out  विरूद्ध   the   सन्धि   ;  warnng that  वहीँ  would  be  difficulty with the  विदेशी   नागरिकों   ,  noting the  दीर्घकालिक  rebellion that took place on  the  island ,  और   the  risk that  the  independence of  हैती   ,  recognized by  the  United States in 1862 , would  be   खोया  .
Sumner stated  कि  Grant 's use  of   the   u.S.  Navy as a protectorate was  a  violation of  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  law  और  unconstitutional .
Finally ,  on  June  30   ,  1870 the treaty was  voted  on by  the  Senate and failed to gain the  जरूरी  2/3  बहुमत  for treaty passage  .
The following  दिन  , President  ग्रान्ट  , feeling betrayed  by   sen.   sumner   ,   retaliated  by ordering the  dismissal   of  Sumner’s close  dost   J.  Lothrop Motley ,  दूत  to Britain  .
By  पतझड़   ,  Sumner  's  personal hostility to  the  president was  पब्लिक  knowledge , and he blamed the  सचिव  of State for failing  to  have resigned , rather  than  let Grant  have   उसके  way  .
The  दो   मेन  ,  मित्रों  until then  ,  cooled into bitter enemies .
in  December , 1870  ,  still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo Domingo  somehow   ,   sumner   दिया  a fiercely critical  वाक   accusing  the president  of   usurpation   और  Babcock of  unethical   conduct   .
Already  ,  President Grant  ,   समर्थित  by his  सचिव   of  State Hamilton Fish ,  था   initiated   a  campaign to depose  sumner   इससे  the chairmanship  of   the   सीनेट  Foreign Relations  कमेटी   .
Although Sumner stated he was  an  `` Administration  man   ''  ,  in  addition to  having   रोका   ग्रान्ट  's Dominican  गणतंत्र  treaty attempt ,  sumner   था  defeated Grant  's  full repeal  of  the  कार्यकाल   of  Office  अधिनियम   ,  blocked  ग्रान्ट  's  नामांकन  of  सिकंदर   स्टीवर्ट  to U.S.  सचिव  of Treasury  ,  and  महरूम   a   निरंतर   harassing  force pushing  पुनर्निर्माण  policies faster than Grant  था   महरूम  willing to  go   .
Grant  resented   sumner   's   बड़प्पन  of manner , as well  .
Told  एकबार  that Sumner did not believe in the  बाइबल  ,  the   अध्यक्ष  is  supposed  to have  कहा  that  he   थी  not  चकित   :  `` he did  n't   लिखें   it   .   ''
As  the   दरार   between  Grant and Sumner increased , Sumner’s health began to decline .
जब  the 42nd  u.S.  Congress  convened   on   कूच  4 , 1871 ,  सीनेटरों  affiliated  साथ  President  ग्रान्ट  , known  as   ‘’new  Radicals’’ voted  to  oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations  कमेटी  chairmanship .
कारोबार  ethics ( also corporate  आचार   )  is  a  form  of  applied ethics  or   पेशेवर   आचार  that examines ethical principles  और   moral  or ethical problems  कि  arise in a business environment .
it   applies   to  all aspects  of   कारोबार  conduct and  is  relevant to  the   conduct   of  individuals and entire organizations .
कारोबार  ethics has  दोनो  normative  और   वर्णनात्मक  dimensions  .
As a corporate practice and  a   करियर  specialization ,  the  field  is  primarily normative .
Academics attempting to understand  कारोबार  behavior employ  वर्णनात्मक   विधि  .
The  दायरा  and  मात्रा  of business ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing  बर्ताव  with non-economic concerns  .
Interest in business  आचार  accelerated dramatically during the  1980s  and 1990s  ,   दोनो   भीतर  major  corporations  and  भीतर  academia .
For example , today most  प्रमुख  corporations promote their  प्रतिबद्धता   to  non-economic  मान  under  headings   ऐसे   as  ethics  कोड  and  सोशल   जिम्मेदारी  charters  .
आदम  Smith said  ,  ``  लोगों   of  the  वही  trade seldom  मिलें   साथ  , even for  merriment  and diversion , but  the  conversation ends  in   a   षड्यंत्र   विरूद्ध  the  पब्लिक   ,  or in  कुछ  contrivance to raise prices  .  ''
सरकारें   उपयोग   कानून  and  regulations  to point business behavior in what they perceive to be beneficial  दिशानिर्देश   .
Ethics  implicitly  regulates  क्षेत्रों  and details  of  behavior that lie  परे   सरकारी   कंट्रोल   .
The emergence  of  large  corporations  with  सीमित   संबंध  and  संवेदनशीलता  to  the  communities  in   जिससे   वे  operate  त्वरित   the   विकास   of  formal ethics regimes .
A burn  is  a type  of  injury  to  flesh or skin caused by heat  ,  electricity  ,   रसायन  , friction , or  विकिरण   .
सबसे  burns  affect  only  the  superficial skin ( known as  सतही   or   पहला   उपाधि   )  or extend  into  the  deeper   स्किन  but do not  involve   the   पूरा  thickness of the skin  (   ज्ञात  as  आंशिक   मोटाई   or  second degree ) .
rarely   सब  layers of the skin  or   deeper   ऊतकों   ,  such as muscle  or   अस्थि   can  be injured  in  which case the burn  is  either full thickness  (   तीसरा   उपाधि  ) or  चौथी  degree  .
The  उपचार   जरूरी  depends  on   the   गंभीरता  of  the  burn .
Superficial burns maybe managed with little more than  सरल  pain killers  जबकि  major  burns   may   आवश्यकता   prolonged  treatment  in   specialized   बर्न   centers  .
Cooling  साथ  tap water may  सहायता   पीड़ा  and decrease  क्षति   however  if  एक्सपोज़र  is prolonged it  may  result  in  low  देह  temperature .
आंशिक  thickness  burns  may  आवश्यकता   सफ़ाई   साथ   साबुन   और   जल  followed  by   dressings  .
Blisters should  typically   be   बाएँ  unbroken .
पूरा  thickness  burns  usually require  सर्जिकल   उपचार   ऐसे  as skin  कलम   और   extensive  burns  प्रायः  require  विशाल  amount  of  intravenous fluids  .
the  most common complications of burns are  सम्बन्धित  to  संक्रमण   .
While large burns  can  be fatal ,  आधुनिक  treatments developed  in  the  पिछला  50 years  have  significantly  improved  the  outcomes  , especially  in   children   और  young adults  .
Globally about 11 million people  तलाश  medical  उपचार  and 300,000 people die  इससे   burns  .
In  the  United States  ,  of those  admitted   to  a burn center , approximately 4 %  die  from their injuries .
The long term  निष्कर्ष   is   primarily  related  to   the  size of  बर्न   और   the  age of the person effected  .
The  अटलांटिक  Ocean , not including  आर्कटिक   और  Antarctic regions
इस  video was taken by the crew  of   expedition  29 on board the ISS  .
the  pass starts from just north-east  of  the Island  of   न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  over  the   उत्तर  Atlantic Ocean to central  अफ़्रीकी   ,  over South Sudan .
The  अटलांटिक  Ocean is the second-largest of the world  's  oceanic  विभाजन  .
With  a  total  क्षेत्रफल   of   परिचय  , it  कवर  approximately 20 percent of the Earth 's surface and about 29 percent of its water  सतह   क्षेत्रफल   .
The first part of its name refers to Atlas of Greek  mythology  ,  बनाना  the Atlantic the  ``  Sea  of  Atlas  ''   .
The  oldest  known mention of `` Atlantic  ''   is  in The Histories of Herodotus around  450   bc  (  hdt   .  1.202.4 ) :  अटलांटिस  thalassa  (  Greek :  ἀτλαντὶς   θάλασσα   ;  English : Sea  of   एटलस  ) .
the   पद   ethiopic   समंदर  ,  निकला  from  इथियोपिया  , was applied to the southern  अटलांटिक  as late  as   the  mid-19th  सदी   .
पहले  Europeans discovered  अन्य  oceans ,  the   पद   ``  ocean  ''   itself   थी   synonymous  with  the  waters  परे   the   जलसन्धि   of   जिब्राल्टर   कि   we  now know  as   the  Atlantic .
The  जल्दी   यूनानियों  believed this  समंदर  to be  a  gigantic river  encircling  the world  .
the  Atlantic Ocean  occupies   an   elongated   ,   s-shaped   जलाशय   extending   longitudinally   between  Eurasia  और  Africa  to   the  east , and  the  Americas to the west .
as   एक   घटक   of   the  interconnected  वैश्विक   समंदर  ,  it  is connected  in  the  उत्तर  to the Arctic  समंदर  ( which is sometimes considered a sea of the Atlantic  )   ,   to  the Pacific Ocean in the  दक्षिणपश्चिम   ,  the  भारतीय   समंदर  in the southeast  ,  and  the   दक्षिणी   समंदर  in  the  south  .
( Other  परिभाषाएं  describe the Atlantic  as  extending southward to Antarctica . )
the  equator subdivides  it  into the North Atlantic Ocean and  दक्षिण  Atlantic Ocean .
Due to their  long-term  persistence  ,   और  the need for a unique identifier in issuing  forecasts   और  warnings ,  तीव्र  cyclones  और   उपोष्ण  cyclones are given  names  according  to  policy (  देखिए  Tropical  चक्रवात   नामकरण   )  .
The following  हैं  lists  इससे  which  ये  tropical and  उपोष्ण   चक्रवात  names are  निकला  .
White  लाइट   is  dispersed  by   a  prism  into  the colors of the optical spectrum  .
The visible spectrum is  the  portion of the electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम  that is  दृश्य   to  ( can  be  detected by )  the   इंसान   नजर   .
इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  radiation in  इस  range  of  wavelengths  is   पुकारा   दृश्य  light or  बस  light .
A typical  इंसान   नजर   होगा   respond   to   wavelengths  from  परिचय  390 to 700 nm  .
In  शर्तें  of  आवृत्ति  ,  इस   corresponds  to  a  band in the  vicinity  of  430–790  THz .
a  light-adapted eye generally has  इसके   अधिकतम   संवेदनशीलता   at  around 555 nm ( 540  thz   )  , in  the  green region of the  ऑप्टिकल  spectrum  (  see : luminosity  फलन   )  .
the   वर्णक्रम   करता  not  ,  however ,  contain  all the colors that the human eyes  और   दिमाग   can   फर्क   .
Unsaturated colors such as  गुलाबी   ,  or purple variations  ऐसे   as  magenta  ,   हैं  absent , for  उदाहरण  , because they can  be  made  तभी  by a mix  of  multiple wavelengths  .
रंगों   containing   तभी   एक   wavelength   हैं  also  पुकारा  pure  रंगों  .
Visible  wavelengths  pass through  the  `` optical window `` , the region  of   the  electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम  which allows wavelengths  to  pass  largely  unattenuated  through  the Earth  's   माहौल  .
An example  of  this phenomenon is  कि   साफ   एयर   scatters   ब्लू   लाइट   अधिक   than  red wavelengths , and  so   the   midday   आसमान  appears  ब्लू  .
the  optical window is also  पुकारा   the  visible window  क्युकी  it  overlaps   the  human visible  जवाब  spectrum .
the  near infrared (  nir   )  window lies  बस  out  of  the human  दृष्टि  ,  as  well as  the   मीडियम  Wavelength  ir  (  mwir   )  window and the Long  wavelength   or  Far  इन्फ्रारेड  ( LWIR  or  FIR  )   खिड़की  though  अन्य   पशु  may  अनुभव  them .
Many species  can  see  लाइट  with  बारंबारता   बाहर   the  ``  दृश्य   वर्णक्रम   ,  ''  जिससे   is  defined in  शर्तें   of   इंसान   दृष्टि   .
Bees and many  अन्य   कीट  can  detect  ultraviolet light  ,  which helps  उन्हें   ढूँढें  nectar in flowers  .
संयंत्र   प्रजाति   कि   निर्भर  on  कीट  pollination  may   owe  reproductive  कामयाबी  to  उनके  appearance  in  ultraviolet light , rather  than  how colorful they appear to  इंसानो  .
Birds , too  ,   can  see into  the  ultraviolet  (  300–400 nm  )  , and some  have  sex-dependent  markings   on  their  plumage  that  हैं   दृश्य  only  in  the  पराबैंगनी  range .
Many  पशु  that can see  into  the ultraviolet  दायरा  , however , can not  देखिए  red light or any  अन्य   reddish  wavelengths .
मधुमक्खियों   '  visible  वर्णक्रम  ends at about  590nm  , just  पहले  the orange wavelengths start .
Birds ,  however   ,  can  देखिए  some red  wavelengths   ,  but not as many  as  humans  .
zebras   (  or )  हैं  several species of African  equids  (  घोड़ा   परिवार  ) united  by  their distinctive  ब्लैक   और  white stripes .
उनके  stripes come in different patterns ,  अद्वितीय   to   प्रत्येक   व्यक्तिगत   .
They are  generally  social  पशु   कि  live in  छोटी  harems  to  large herds  .
नापसंद   उनके  closest  रिश्तेदारों  ,  घोड़े  and  asses   ,   zebras   have   never  been truly domesticated .
वहीँ  are three  प्रजाति   of   zebras   :   the   मैदान   जेब्रा  , the Grévy  's  zebra  और  the mountain  जेब्रा   .
the   मैदान  zebra and  the   पहाड़  zebra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris , but  grévy   's  zebra is  the  sole species  of  subgenus  dolichohippus  .
the  latter  resembles  an  गधा  , to  जिससे  it is  closely  related ,  जबकि  the former  दो  are more  horse-like  .
All  तीन  belong to the genus  equus  , along  साथ  other living equids  .
the   अद्वितीय   धारियाँ  of zebras make  उन्हें   एक  of  the   पशु   सबसे   परिचित   to   लोगों  .
वे  occur in a  किस्में  of habitats  ,  such as  grasslands  ,  savannas   ,   वुडलैंड्स   ,  thorny  scrublands  , mountains ,  और   तटीय  hills .
however   ,  various  anthropogenic   कारकों  have had a  कठोर  impact on zebra populations ,  in   particular  hunting for skins and habitat destruction  .
Grévy 's zebra and  the  mountain zebra are endangered .
While plains zebras are  much  more plentiful ,  एक  subspecies  ,  the quagga , became extinct in  the   लेट  19th  सदी  –  हालांकि   वहीँ   is  currently a plan  ,  called  the  Quagga Project , that  aims   to  breed  zebras   कि  are phenotypically similar to the quagga  in   a   प्रक्रम   पुकारा  breeding back .
बैरी  White ,  born   बैरी  Eugene Carter  (  – ) , was  an   अमरीकी   composer  and  singer-songwriter   .
A  two-time  Grammy  पुरस्कार  -winner  ज्ञात  for  उसके   distinctive   बास  voice  और   रोमांटिक   चित्र   ,  White  's  greatest  कामयाबी   आए   in  the 1970s as  a  solo singer and with  the   प्रेम  Unlimited Orchestra  ,   crafting   अनेक   enduring  soul ,  दुर्गंध  ,  और   डिस्को  songs such  as  his two  biggest  hits , `` You 're  the  First  ,  the Last  ,  My  सबकुछ  ``  और   ``   ca  n't Get  पर्याप्त  of  अपना  Love , Babe  .  ''
साथ  with Isaac Hayes  ,  White  is   माना  by Allmusic.com as  a   पायोनियर   of  disco  म्यूज़िक   in   the  early  1970s  .
During  the   कोर्स  of his career in the music business ,  श्वेत   हासिल   106   सुनहरा  albums  विश्वव्यापी  , 41 of  जिससे   भी   attained   प्लेटिनम  status .
श्वेत  had 20  सुनहरा   और  10 platinum  singles   ,   साथ   विश्वव्यापी  sales in excess  of   100  million  ,  according  to  critics  ed  Hogan and  वेड   kergan  .
His influences  शामिल   रेव  . James Cleveland , Ray Charles , Aretha Franklin plus Motown  कलाकारों   the  Supremes  ,  The  चार  Tops and  मारविन   gaye  .
Angelina Jolie (  ,  born  एंजेलीना   जोली   वोइट  ;  जून  4  ,  1975 ) is  an  American actress  ,   फिल्मी  director  ,   और   screenwriter  .
वो  has received an Academy Award , two Screen  अभिनेताओं  Guild  पुरस्कार   ,   और   तीन   सुनहरी  Globe Awards  ,  and was  नामित   हॉलीवुड   's  highest-paid  अभिनेत्री  by  फोर्ब्स  in 2009 and  2011   .
जोली  promotes  humanitarian   कल्याणकारी   ,  and  is  noted for her  कार्य  with  शरणार्थियों  as  a   खास  Envoy  और   पूर्व   साख  Ambassador for the  संयुक्त   राष्ट्र   ऊँची  Commissioner  लिये   शरणार्थियों  ( UNHCR ) .
She  रै  often  महरूम  cited as  the   संसार  's  ``   सबसे  beautiful  ''  woman  ,   a   शीर्षक   लिये  which she has received  substantial  media  ध्यान   .
जोली  made  उसके  screen debut as a  चाइल्ड   alongside   उसके  father Jon Voight in Lookin  '  to  मिलेंगी  Out (  1982   )  , but  उसके  film career began  in  earnest a decade  बाद  with the  low-budget   उत्पादन  Cyborg  2  ( 1993  )  .
Her first leading  भूमिका   in  a  प्रमुख   फिल्मी   थी  in the cyber-thriller Hackers  (  1995 )  .
She starred  in  the critically acclaimed biographical television films George Wallace  (  1997 ) and  gia  ( 1998 ) ,  और  won  an  Academy  पुरस्कार  for  बेहतरीन   supporting  Actress for  उसके   प्रदर्शन  in the drama Girl  ,   बाधित   (   1999   )   .
जोली  achieved  चौड़ी   कीर्ति   बाद  her  portrayal   of  video  खेल   नायिका  Lara Croft  in  Lara Croft  :  Tomb Raider (  2001  )  ,   और  established herself among the highest-paid  अभिनेत्रियों   in   हॉलीवुड   साथ   the  sequel The Cradle  of  Life ( 2003  )  .
She  जारी   उसके  action star career with Mr.  &   mrs.  Smith (  2005  )  और   चाही   (  2008 ) —her  biggest   non-animated   वाणिज्यिक  successes to  date—and  received further  नाजुक  acclaim  लिये   उसके  performances in the dramas  a   mighty   दिल  (  2007  ) and  changeling  (  2008   )  , which earned  उसके   a  nomination for an Academy  पुरस्कार   लिये  Best  अभिनेत्री   .
Jolie made her directorial debut with  the  wartime drama In the Land of Blood  और  Honey ( 2011 ) .
तलाक  from actors  जॉनी  Lee  मिलर   और  Billy  bob  Thornton , Jolie now  जीवनदान   साथ  actor  ब्रैड  Pitt  ,  in  a  relationship notable for  fervent  media attention .
जोली  and Pitt  have  three biological children and  तीन  adopted children  .
a  natural  मेहराब   उत्पादित  by  the  erosion of  differentially  weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz  ,  Jordan
अपरदन   is   the   प्रक्रम   by   जिससे   मृदा  and  चट्टान  are  removed  from the Earth 's surface by exogenetic processes  ऐसे  as  हवा  or water flow , and then  transported   और  deposited  in  other locations  .
जबकि  erosion is a natural  प्रक्रम   ,  human activities have  increased  by 10-40  टाइम्स   the   रेट  at  जिससे  erosion  is  occurring  globally  .
excessive   अपरदन   कल्याणकारी  problems  ऐसे   as  desertification ,  decreases  in agricultural productivity due  to  land degradation , sedimentation  of   जलमार्गों   ,  and ecological  पतन  due  to  loss of  the  nutrient rich  अपर  soil layers .
जल  and wind erosion  हैं  now the two primary causes of land degradation  ;  combined , they  हैं  responsible for 84 % of degraded acreage , making excessive erosion  एक   of   the   सबसे  significant global environmental  समस्याएं   .
औद्योगिक   कृषि  , deforestation  ,   सड़कें  , anthropogenic  जलवायु  change  और  urban sprawl are  amongst   the  most significant human activities in  लिहाज़  to  उनके  effect on  stimulating  erosion  .
However , there  हैं  many  उपलब्धियाँ  alternative land use  practices  that can  काटना   or  limit erosion , such as  छत   -building  ,  no-till  agriculture , and  revegetation   of  denuded soils  .
Jersey  shore  is an American  वास्तविकता   टेलीविज़न  series which  भागा  on MTV  इससे  December 3  ,  2009 to December 20  ,   2012  in  the  United States .
The  श्रेणी   फ़ॉलो  the lives of eight housemates spending their  गर्मियाँ  at  the   जर्सी  Shore  in  the U.S.  राज्य   of   नई   जर्सी   .
Season 2  followed  the  डाल  escaping  the  cold northeast  शीत   to  Miami Beach  ,  with  ऋतु  3 returning to the Jersey Shore  .
the  fourth  ऋतु   ,  filmed in Italy  ,   premiered  on  अगस्त   4   ,  2011  .
The show returned  लिये  a fifth season  ,   at   seaside  Heights  on   जनवरी  5 , 2012  .
The fifth season finale  aired   on   कूच  15 , 2012  .
On March 19 ,  2012   ,  MTV  पुष्टि  that  the   श्रेणी   होता  return for their sixth  ऋतु   .
On August 30  ,  2012 ,  एमटीवी  announced that  the  series  होगा  end after the  छठे   ऋतु  , which  premiered  on October 4 .
The  श्रेणी  finale aired on  दिसम्बर   20   ,  2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts  of   विवाद   regarding  the use  of   the  words  ``   guido  / Guidette  ,   ''  portrayals  of   italian-american  stereotypes ,  और  scrutiny from  स्थानीय   क्युकी   the  cast members were not residents of the area .
The series garnered record ratings for MTV ,  बनाना   it  the network 's most viewed series telecast ever  .
the  series  '  cast have also  महरूम  credited with  introducing  unique lexicon and  वाक्यांश  into  अमरीकी  popular  संस्कृति  .
The University of Chicago and the  विश्वविद्यालयों   of   ओक्लाहोमा   हैं  among  the  educational institutions that have had  वर्ग  or conferences  परिचय  the show .
In 2010  ,  the cast  of  Jersey Shore  थी   नामित  on Barbara  walters  ' 10 Most  fascinating   लोगों  list  ,   और  the series has since been  exported  to  दर्जनों   of  countries  विश्वव्यापी  .
वहीँ   हैं  several remakes  of  the  दिखाएँ  in other  देशों  ,  साथ  two set in the  संयुक्त  Kingdom ;  the  well  ज्ञात  Geordie Shore  ,   नियत   in   न्यूकैसल   upon  Tyne  ,   इंग्लैण्ड   .
The  अन्य  is  the   घाटियों  ,  the   वेल्श  equivalent , which  is   फिल्माया  and  नियत  in  कार्डिफ   .
the  only other  आधिकारिक  remake of  the  show is  gandía   shore  , set in  gandía  , Spain  .
सही
संयुक्त   राज्य   territory  is any  extent  of  प्रदेश   अंतर्गत  the jurisdiction  of   the  federal  सरकारी   of  the  संयुक्त  States  ,  including  सब  waters (  around  islands  or  continental tracts ) and  सब   u.s   .  Naval vessels .
the  United States has traditionally  proclaimed   the  sovereign rights  लिये  exploring , exploiting  ,  conserving  ,  and managing its  territory  .
This  extent  of territory  is   सब   the  area belonging  to  ,  और  under the dominion of  ,  the United  राज्य  federal  सरकारी  (  जिससे   शामिल  tracts lying  at  a  अलहदा  from  the   देश  )  लिये   प्रशासनिक  and  अन्य  purposes .
The United States  कुल   territory   शामिल   a  subset of  राजनैतिक  divisions  .
The U.S.  सरकारी   is   a   सरकारी   साथ  delegated powers under the  संयुक्त   राज्य  Constitution  .
``  the   शक्तियां   नहीं  delegated  to  the United  राज्य  by  the   संविधान   ,  nor  निषिद्ध  by  it  to  the   राज्य  ,  हैं   सुरक्षित  to the  राज्य   क्रमशः  ,  or  to  the   लोगों  ''  by  the Tenth  amendment  .
टर्मिनेटर  3 : Rise  of  the Machines  (  commonly  abbreviated  as T3  )  is a  2003   विज्ञान   fiction   कार्रवाई  film  निर्देशित  by  जोनाथन   mostow  and starring  अर्नाल्ड  Schwarzenegger  ,  Nick Stahl , Claire  danes  and Kristanna Loken .
It  is   the  second  sequel  to The Terminator (  1984  )  .
After Skynet fails to  मार  Sarah Connor before  उसके  son is  born  and to kill John himself as  a   चाइल्ड   ,   it   भेजना  back  another   टर्मिनेटर   ,  the T-X ,  in   an  attempt to  wipe   आउट  as many  प्रतिरोध  officers as possible .
This includes John 's  भविष्य   बीवी  ,  लकिन  not John himself  as   उसके   whereabouts   हैं   अनजान  to Skynet  .
John 's life is placed in danger when the T-X accidentally  पाता  him .
A cord of wood
the   cord  is a unit of measure  of  dry  आवाज़  used in  कनाडा  and the United  राज्य  to measure firewood and  pulpwood  .
a   cord  is  the   राशि   of  wood  कि  , when ``  क्रमित   और   खूब  stowed '' (  arranged   so   टुकड़े  are aligned ,  समानांतर   ,  touching  और  compact )  ,   occupies  a volume of  .
This corresponds to a  खूब  stacked woodpile high ,  long   ,  and deep ;  or  any other  व्यवस्था   of   रैखिक   माप  that yields  the  same  आवाज़   .
The name  cord  probably comes from  the  use  of   a  cord  or   स्ट्रिंग  to measure  it   .
The  ,  is an 8-bit  हैंडहेल्ड  video game  यंत्र  developed  और   manufactured   by   निन्टेंडो  .
It was  released   in   जापानी  on ,  in   उत्तर   अमेरिका   in  ,  और  in  यूरोपीय   on   .
it   is  the  पहला  handheld console  in  the  खेल  Boy line ,  और  was created  by  Gunpei  yokoi   और   निन्टेंडो   शोध  & Development 1 —the same staff  जो   था  designed  the  Game & Watch series  as  well as  अनेक   लोकप्रिय  games  लिये  the  निन्टेंडो   entertainment  System .
redesigned  versions  यहूद  released  in   1996  and  1998   ,  in the form of Game Boy Pocket ,  और  Game Boy Light  (  Japan  तभी  )  ,   क्रमशः  .
The Game Boy  is   निन्टेंडो  's  दूसरी  handheld system  following  the Game &  देखें   श्रेणी   introduced  in  ,   और   it   संयुक्त  features  इससे  both the Nintendo Entertainment System  और  Game & Watch .
It was originally bundled  साथ   the   पहेली  game  टेट्रिस  .
As  भाग  of  the  fourth generation of  गेमिंग  , the  खेल  Boy competed with  the  Sega Game Gear  ,   atari  Lynx  ,   और   the  TurboExpress  .
despite  these other technologically superior  हैंडहेल्ड  consoles  ,  the Game Boy was a tremendous success .
The Game  लड़के   और  its successor  ,  the Game  लड़के  Color  ,   have  both  संयुक्त  sold  118.69  million units worldwide .
Upon its release  in  the United States  ,  it sold its entire shipment of one million  इकाई   भीतर  weeks .
the  World Trade Center is  a   जटिल   of   इमारतें  under construction in  निम्नतर   मैनहटन  ,  नई   यॉर्क  City , United States  ,  replacing an  पहले   जटिल  of seven buildings with the same  नाम   on  the same site  .
The original World Trade  बीच  featured  लैंडमार्क   जुड़वा  towers  ,  which opened  on  April 4  ,   1973   और  were destroyed  in   the  September 11  हमले  of 2001 , along  साथ  7 World Trade  बीच  .
The other  इमारतें  in the complex  यहूद   क्षतिग्रस्त   in  the  हमले   ,   और   उनके  ruins were  आखिरकार   demolished   .
The  साईट  is  होने  rebuilt  साथ   पाँच   नई  skyscrapers and a memorial to those killed  in  the  हमले   .
, only one skyscraper  रै  been  समाप्त   ;   the   अन्य  four  हैं   अपेक्षित  to  be   समाप्त  before  2020   .
एक  World  व्यापार   बीच  will be the lead building for  the   नई  complex , reaching  अधिक  than 100 stories  at  its completion .
it   became  the  tallest   भवन  in  नई  York  नगर  on  अप्रैल   30  , 2012 , and is expected  to  be finished by 2013 .
a  sixth tower is awaiting  पुष्टि  .
At the time of their completion  ,  the  असली  1  संसार  Trade Center (  the   उत्तर  Tower )  और  2 World  व्यापार  Center ( the  दक्षिण   मीनार   )   ,   ज्ञात  collectively as  the   ``  Twin  मीनारें   ''   ,  were the  tallest  buildings in  the   संसार  .
the  other buildings included 3 WTC ( the Marriott  संसार  Trade Center ) ,  4  WTC , 5 WTC  ,  6 WTC  ,   और  7 WTC .
सब  of  ये  buildings were built between 1975  और   1985   .
The cost for  the  construction  थी  $  400  million  (  $ in  डॉलर   )   .
The complex was located in  the  heart  of   नई  York  नगर  's  शहर  financial district and contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office  स्पेस  .
the  World Trade Center experienced a fire  on  ,  1975   ,  a bombing on ,  1993   और  a robbery  on  , 1998  .
In 1998 , the Port  प्राधिकार   decided  to privatize  the  World  व्यापार  Center , leasing the buildings to  a   निजी  company to  मैनेज  ,  और  awarded  the  lease  to  Silverstein  गुण   in   .
On  the   morning   of  September 11  ,   2001   ,  Al-Qaeda -affiliated  hijackers   उड़ाया  two Boeing 767 jets into  the  complex , one into each tower  ,  in a  समन्वित  terrorist attack  .
बाद  burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2  )  collapsed  ,   followed  a half-hour later  by  the North  मीनार   (  1 )  ,  with the attacks on the World  व्यापार  Center resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris from the  मीनारें  , combined  साथ   फ़ायर  that  the   मलबा  initiated in several surrounding buildings  ,   led  to the partial or complete collapse of  सब  the other  इमारतें   in   the  complex and caused catastrophic damage to ten other  विशाल  structures in the  surrounding   क्षेत्रफल   .
The process of cleanup and recovery at the World  व्यापार  Center  साईट  took eight  महीने  .
over  the  following   सालो   ,   योजनाएँ  for a rebuilt World  व्यापार  Center  took  form .
The first new building  at  the site  थी   7   संसार  Trade Center  ,  which opened in  .
the   निम्नतर   मैनहटन   विकास   निगम   (   lmdc   )   ,   स्थापित   in  to oversee the rebuilding process  ,   व्यवस्थित  competitions to  चुनें  a site  योजना   और  memorial design .
Memory Foundations  ,  designed by  डेनियल  Libeskind  ,   थी  selected as  the   निपुण  plan  ,   लकिन   इस  went through substantial  परिवर्तन   in   डिज़ाइन  .
The new  संसार  Trade  बीच   जटिल   होगा  include  एक  World  व्यापार   बीच  , three other high-rise office towers , and the National September 11  मेमोरियल   &   संग्रहालय  .
San  जिबरील   kyu
San Bernardino Mountains , with  mt   .   सैन  Gorgonio  in  the foreground and  बिग  Bear Lake  in   the  background .
The Transverse Ranges are a  समूह   of  mountain  सीमाएँ  of  दक्षिणी  California  ,  in the Pacific  coast  Ranges physiographic region  in  North America  .
The Transverse Ranges  शुरू  at  the  southern end  of  the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  Coast  सीमाएँ   और   झूठ  between Santa Barbara and  सैन   डिएगो  counties  .
They  derive   the  name  अनुप्रस्थ  Ranges  due  to their East-West orientation  ,   बनाना  them  अनुप्रस्थ   to   the  general North-South orientation of most of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   's   तटीय   kyu   .
Periodic  तालिका  with electron  शेल
an  electron  शेल  may be thought  of   as   an   कक्षा   followed   by   electrons  around an  अणु  's nucleus  .
The closest  शेल  to the nucleus  is   पुकारा   the  `` 1 shell '' (  भी   पुकारा  `` K  शेल  ''  )  , followed by the ``  2   शेल  ''  (   or  ``  l   शेल  '' ) ,  तब   the  ``  3  shell  ''  ( or ``  m   शेल   ''  ) ,  और  so on farther and  दूर  from the  केंद्रक  .
The  शेल  letters K ,  l  ,  m  ,  ...   ,  used in  the  X-ray notation  ,  are  वर्णमाला   .
प्रत्येक   शेल   can   contain  only a fixed number of electrons  :  The  1st  shell can hold  up  to two  electrons   ,  the  2nd   शेल  can hold  up  to eight electrons  ,  the  3rd  shell can hold  up   to  18 , and  4th   शेल   can  hold up to  32   और   so  on  .
चूंकि  electrons are  electrically  attracted to  the  nucleus , an  अणु  's  electrons   होगा   generally  occupy outer shells only if the more  भीतरी  shells  have   already   महरूम   completely  filled  by  other electrons .
however  , this  is   नहीं   a   सख्त   आवश्यकता  : Atoms may have  दो   or  even three incomplete  बाहरी   शेल  .
(  देखिए  Madelung  नियम   लिये  more  विवरण  .  )
लिये  an explanation of  क्यों  electrons  मौजूद  in these  शेल  see electron  विन्यास  .
the   electrons   in  the outermost  occupied  shell (  or   शेल  ) determine the chemical  गुण   of   the  atom  ;  it  is  called  the   valence   शेल  .
Each shell  consists   of  one  or  more subshells  ,   और  each subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals  .
Vickie  lynn  Marshall ( née  होगन  ; November  28   ,   1967   –   फ़रवरी  8 , 2007 ) ,  ज्ञात  by her moniker Anna  निकोल   स्मिथ  ,  थी  an American  मॉडल  ,  अभिनेत्री   ,  and  टेलीविज़न   व्यक्तित्व  .
Smith first gained popularity in Playboy ,  बनने   the  1993 Playmate of the  साल   .
She  modeled  for clothing companies  ,  including  अंदाज़ा   जीन्स   और   लेन  Bryant  .
Smith  dropped  out  of   ऊँची  school  और  was  शादीशुदा  in 1985 .
Her  अत्यधिक  publicized  दूसरी  marriage to  आयल  business mogul ,  J.  Howard Marshall ,  62   सालो  her senior ,  resulted   in   अटकलें  that she  शादीशुदा   the  octogenarian  लिये   उसके  money ,  जिससे  she  अस्वीकृत   .
following  Marshall 's  मौत   ,   स्मिथ   began   a   lengthy  legal  बैटल   over  a share  of  his estate  .
उसके  case  ,  Marshall  v.   मार्शल  , reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a  सवाल  of federal jurisdiction , and again on a question of bankruptcy  अदालत   प्राधिकार   (  now  पुकारा   stern  v. Marshall ) .
Smith  died   on  February 8 , 2007 in  a  Hollywood , Florida  होटल  room  as   a  result  of   an   overdose  of  नुस्खा  drugs  .
भीतर   the   फाइनल   छह   महीने   of   उसके  life ,  स्मिथ   थी  the  फ़ोकस  of a  नवीनीकृत   दबायें  coverage  surrounding   the  death of  उसके  son ,  डेनियल  , and the paternity and custody battle  over  her  नवजात   बेटी  , Dannielynn .
The  is  one denomination of Japanese yen  .
The current design  थी   पहला  minted in  1959  using Japanese characters known  as   the  ``  नई  script `` ,  और   यहूद   भी  minted  इससे   1949-1958  using `` old-script ''  जापानी  characters  .
Five-yen coins  तिथि  to  1870   (  when , due to the much  उच्चतर   मान   of   the  yen  ,   वे  were  minted  in gold  )  .
the  front of  the  coin depicts a rice  संयंत्र  growing  आउट  of  the   जल  , with  ``   पाँच  yen  ''  written in kanji ; the back  is  stamped with `` Japan ''  और  the year of issue , also  in  kanji ,  अलग  by  sprouts   of   a   पेड़   .
The  तीन   ग्राफिक   तत्व  of  the  coin represent  कृषि   और   fisheries  , the key elements of  the  Japanese first-sector  अर्थव्यवस्था  .
Around a  छेद   ,  there is  a   गियर  that represents industry  .
it  is  the   तभी  Japanese coin in circulation  to  lack  अरबी  numerals  on  either face  .
tlc   is  an American girl group  जिनकी   रंगमंडल  spanned  r  & B , hip hop ,  आत्मा   ,  funk  ,  and new jack  झूले   .
Originally consisting  of  singer Tionne ``  t-boz   ''   वाटकिंस  , rapper  लिसा  `` Left Eye  ''  Lopes  और   सिंगर  Rozonda ``  chilli   ''   थामस   ,  the  समूह  found unprecedented success  in  the 1990s while also enduring  a   श्रेणी   of   spats  with the  विधि  , each other  ,   और  the group 's record  लेबल  .
initially   ,  TLC  हासिल  commercial  कामयाबी  following the  रिलीज  of their debut album Ooooooohhh ...
On the TLC Tip ,  जिससे  sold 6 million  नक़ल  worldwide .
however  , it was  उनके   दूसरी  album , CrazySexyCool  ,  that catapulted the group to superstar status  .
crazysexycool  went on to be certified diamond  by   the   riaa   —   a   पहला  for a  मादा  group  ,  and eventually sold 23 million copies worldwide  .
Five years  बाद  ,  the   समूह  released their third  एल्बम  FanMail ,  जिससे   became   the  group  's  first album to debut at number one and  बेची  more  than   11   लाख   नक़ल   विश्वव्यापी  .
The subsequent tour  following   fanmails  release  became  the  उच्चतम   grossing  tour of  सब  time by a  मादा  band .
in   2002  ,  लिसा  ``  बाएँ   नजर  '' Lopes died in  a  car accident  in   होंडुरास  .
सात   महीने   बाद  , T-Boz and Chilli released the  समूह  's fourth album  3d  , which sold  2  million  नक़ल  worldwide ,  it  featured unreleased  vocals  from  बाएँ  Eye .
Billboard magazine ranked TLC  as  one of  the  greatest  musical  trios  .
between  1992 and 2003 ,  the  band  संचित   टेन   शीर्ष  ten  singles   ,   चार   क्रमांक   एक   singles   ,  four  multi-platinum  albums , and four  ग्रैमी  Awards .
At  the   समाप्त   of  1999 ,  tlc   थी   क्रमित   as   the  seventh  सबसे  successful act of the  1990s  by  बिलबोर्ड  .
In  2008  ,  the   समूह   थी  inducted into the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall  of  Fame  by  the same magazine , at 56th place  .
कि  year  it   थी   भी   सूचीबद्ध  as  the  # 25  r  & B/hip-hop artist  of  the preceding 25  सालो  .
TLC  रै  sold more than  65  million records  विश्वव्यापी  and they are  क्रमित  as  the   दूसरी   बेहतरीन  selling female group of  सब  time , and the  बेहतरीन   selling  female  r  & B  समूह  of all  समय   .
In 2012 ,  tlc   क्रमित   12th   on  VH1  's  100 Greatest  महिलाओं  in Music  ,  being  क्रमित  the  क्रमांक   एक  all girl  समूह  on  कि  list .
टार्ज़न   is  a 1999  अमरीकी   एनिमेटेड  adventure film produced by Walt Disney  विशेषता   एनिमेशन  and distributed  by  Walt Disney  तस्वीरें  .
The 37th film in  the  Walt  डिज़्नी  Animated Classics  ,  it is  आधारित   on   the  story  टार्ज़न   of  the Apes  by  Edgar  राइस  Burroughs ,  और   is   the   तभी  major motion  चित्र  version of the story  टार्ज़न   प्रॉपर्टी  to  be   एनिमेटेड  .
निर्देशित  by  क्रिस  Buck and Kevin Lima  साथ   a  screenplay by Tab Murphy ,  bob  Tzudiker ,  और   नोनी  White ,  टार्ज़न   सुविधाएँ  the  आवाज़ें   of  Tony  goldwyn   ,   minnie  Driver , Glenn Close , and  रोजी   o'donnell  with Brian Blessed , Lance  henriksen  , Wayne  नाईट  ,  और  Nigel  hawthorne  .
it  was the last  bona  fide hit before the Disney  slump   of   the  early  2000s   grossing   $   171,091,819  domestically and $  448,191,819  worldwide ,  outgrossing  its  पूर्ववर्तियों  Hercules  (  1997  )  and Mulan ( 1998  )   .
At the time of its  रिलीज  ,  इसके   उत्पादन   बजट  of $  130  million made it the  सबसे  expensive animated film ever made  ,  until topped by Disney  's   अपना  $ 140 million Treasure  ग्रह  in  2002  .
It  थी   भी  the first Disney  एनिमेटेड   विशेषता   to  open  at   #  1 since  pocahontas  .
इस  was  the  last major box  दफ्तर  success of the Disney Renaissance  .
Oil Platform P-51 off  the  Brazilian  coast  is  a  semi-submersible  मंच  .
आयल   मंच  Mittelplate in  the  North  समुद्र
An oil platform , (  offshore   मंच   or  colloquially oil rig  )  is  a  large  ढांचा   साथ  facilities to drill wells , to  निकालें  and process  आयल  and  प्राकृतिक   गैस   ,  and  to   temporarily  store product until it can be brought to  shore  for refining  और   विपणन   .
In  अनेक  cases , the platform contains facilities  to  house  the  workforce as well .
Depending on the circumstances  ,   the   मंच  may  be   फिक्स्ड  to the  समंदर   मंजिल   ,   may   consist   of  an  कृत्रिम  island  ,  or  may  float  .
रिमोट   subsea  wells may also be connected to a  मंच  by flow lines  और   by  umbilical connections .
ये  subsea  समाधान   may  consist of  एक  or more  subsea   कुएं   ,   or  of one or more manifold  केंद्रों  for multiple wells .
Slaughter is the killing  of   पशु   ,  usually that  of   घरेलू  livestock for  खाना  .
the  animals  सबसे  commonly slaughtered  लिये  food are  चौपायों   ,   जल   भैंस  (  लिये   बीफ   और  veal  )  , sheep , goats  (  for lamb and  मटन  ) ,  सूअर  ( for  पोर्क  )  ,  horses (  लिये  horse meat ) , and  fowl   ,   largely  chickens ,  turkeys  , and  बतखों   और  increasingly  मछली  from the aquaculture  उद्योग   (  fish farming )  .
The  श्वेत   हाउस   ,   the  president  's  official residence and center  of  the administration
अंतर्गत   the   संयुक्त   राज्य  Constitution  ,   the  President  of   the  United  राज्य   is  the  सिर  of state and head  of  government  of  the United States  .
As chief of  the   कार्यपालिका  branch and head  of  the  संघीय   सरकारी  as a  पूरे  , the presidency is the highest political office in  the  United States by influence and recognition .
The  अध्यक्ष  is also  the  commander-in-chief of  the   संयुक्त  States  हथियारबंद  Forces .
The  अध्यक्ष  is indirectly  निर्वाचित   to  a  four-year  term by  an   चुनावी   कॉलेज  (  or  by  the  House of Representatives should the Electoral College fail to award an absolute  बहुमत  of  मत  to any person ) .
Since  the  ratification of the Twenty-second  amendment  to  the  United States Constitution in  1951   ,   no  person may  be  elected  अध्यक्ष  more than twice ,  और  no one  जो   रै  served more than  दो  years of  a  term  to   जिससे   किसी   else  was elected may be elected more than once  .
upon  the  मौत  , resignation , or  हटाना   इससे  office of an incumbent President ,  the  Vice President assumes the  दफ्तर  .
The President  जरूर  be  at  least  35   सालो   of  age and a `` natural born ''  नागरिक   of   the  United  राज्य  .
इस  list includes only  those   व्यक्तियों  who  यहूद  sworn into office  as   अध्यक्ष   following  the  अनुसमर्थन   of  the  संयुक्त  States Constitution , which  took   प्रभाव   on  March 4 , 1789  .
लिये  American  नेताओ  before  इस   अनुसमर्थन   ,  see President  of  the Continental Congress .
The list does not  शामिल  any Acting Presidents under  the  Twenty-fifth  amendment  to the United States  संविधान  .
There have  महरूम  43 people  sworn  into office  ,   और  44 presidencies  ,  as Grover Cleveland  परोसा   दो  non-consecutive terms and  is  counted  क्रमबद्धता  as both the  22nd  and 24th president .
Of the  individuals  elected  as  president ,  चार  died in office of natural  कल्याणकारी   (  William Henry  हैरिसन  ,  zachary  Taylor  ,  Warren  G.   हार्डिंग  , and  फ्रैंकलिन  D.  रूज़वेल्ट   )   ,   चार   यहूद   assassinated   (  Abraham Lincoln  ,   जेम्स  A. Garfield , William  mckinley   ,   और   जॉन  F. Kennedy )  और   एक  resigned  (   रिचर्ड  Nixon  )   .
जार्ज  Washington  ,  the first  अध्यक्ष   ,   थी  inaugurated in 1789 after  a   सर्वसम्मत   vote   of  the Electoral College  .
William Henry Harrison spent  the  shortest time in  दफ्तर   साथ  32 days  in  1841 , and Franklin  D.   रूज़वेल्ट   खर्च  the  longest   साथ  over twelve  सालो  , but  died   shortly  into  उसके  fourth term in 1945  .
He is  the  only president to  serve  more  than   दो   शर्तें  ,  और  a  संवैधानिक   amendment   ,  affecting presidents  बाद   हैरी  Truman  ,  was passed  to   सीमा  the  क्रमांक   of   टाइम्स  an individual can  be  elected president .
एंड्रयू  Jackson , the seventh  अध्यक्ष  ,  थी  the first to be  निर्वाचित  by  मेन   of  all classes in 1828  बाद  most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
वारेन   हार्डिंग   थी  the  पहला  elected after  महिलाओं  gained voting rights  in  1920 .
इतिहास   रिकॉर्ड   चार  presidents –  जॉन  Q Adams ,  रदरफोर्ड  B. Hayes , Benjamin  हैरिसन   और  George  W.   बुश  –  जो  lost  the   लोकप्रिय  vote but assumed  दफ्तर  .
John  F.  Kennedy  रै  been the only president  of   रोमन  Catholic faith ,  और  the  वर्तमान   अध्यक्ष   ,  Barack Obama  ,  is  the   पहला  president of African  descent   .
अनेक  firearms  साथ  detachable suppressors  ,  from  शीर्ष  to bottom :  an  Uzi  ,   an  AR-15 , A Heckler  &  Koch USP Tactical  ,  A Beretta 92FS , and  a   sig  Mosquito  .
Bolt action  rimfire  rifle with suppressor
awm-f  sniper rifle with attached suppressor  .
a  suppressor  ,   ध्वनि  suppressor , or  ध्वनि  moderator , is  a  device  संलग्न  to  or   भाग  of  the   बैरल   of   a  firearm which reduces  the  amount of noise  ,  and  प्रायः  the  राशि  of muzzle flash , generated  by  firing the  हथियार  .
A suppressor can  be   प्रयुक्त   दोनो   साथ   a   firearm  and with  संपीडित  air gun .
हालांकि  it is  sometimes  referred  to  as a silencer , this  पद  is  a   misnomer   popularized   by  cinematic  fiction   :   the  sound  of  a  प्रक्षेप्य   ,  especially one  चलती  faster than the speed of sound  ,  through the air  can  not be eliminated  .
Using a  suppressor   in  long  अलहदा  shooting  (  i.e  .  greater than 300 meters ) can lessen ,  or   retard   ,  the report at  the  moment  of   प्रभाव   ,  and create the impression  of   खामोशी  near  the   निशाना   .
The noise heard  निकट  the  muzzle   as   a  projectile leaves  the   बैरल  ,  हालांकि  subdued , is  नहीं  silent at all .
A  suppressor  is usually a metal  बेलन   साथ   आतंरिक   mechanisms  to reduce  the  sound of  फायरिंग  by  slowing  the  escaping   propellant  gas  और   sometimes   by  reducing the velocity  of  the bullet  .
जल्दी  suppressors  यहूद  created  around   the  beginning  of  the 20th century by  अनेक  inventors .
American  आविष्कारक   hiram  Percy Maxim (  नहीं   to   be   उलझन   साथ  Hiram Stevens Maxim ,  hiram   पर्सी  's father ,  और  the  आविष्कारक  of  the   कहावत   यंत्र  Gun ) ,  is   credited  with  inventing   और   selling  the first  commercially   कामयाब   मॉडल   circa  1902  (  patented 30  कूच  1909 ) .
कहावत  gave his  यंत्र  the  trademarked  name Maxim  silencer   .
the  muffler  लिये  internal combustion  इंजन  was  विकसित  in  समानांतर   साथ   the  firearm suppressor  by  Maxim in the early  20th  century , using  अनेक  of the same techniques to provide quieter-running engines  (  in many European countries automobile mufflers are  स्टिल   पुकारा   silencers  )  .
the  word  silencer   in  reference to  गन  suppressor  remains  in  फैली   उपयोग  , although  it  has since fallen out of favor  साथ   कुछ   ,  especially  among  the  firearms  industry  ,  being  replaced  with the  अधिक  literally accurate term  ध्वनि   suppressor   or   बस  suppressor ,  क्युकी  a  ``  sound suppressor  ''  does not `` silence '' any weapon ,  बल्कि  it  eliminates   muzzle  flash and reduces  the  sonic pressure  of   a   firearm  discharging .
आम   उपयोग   और  U.S. legislative language favor  the  historically earlier term ,  silencer  .
In U.S.  विधि   ,  the terms `` firearm muffler '' and  ``   firearm   silencer   ''  are  synonymous  .
Suppressors were regularly used  by  agents  of   the   संयुक्त   राज्य  Office of Strategic Services , who favored  the   newly  designed High Standard HDM  .22  Long  राइफल   पिस्टल   दौरान  World War II .
OSS  निदेशक  William Joseph ``  जंगली  Bill  ''   डोनोवन  demonstrated  the   पिस्टल   लिये  President Franklin  D.  Roosevelt at  the   श्वेत  House .
According to OSS research  मुख्य  Stanley Lovell  ,   डोनोवन  (  an   बूढ़ा   और   विश्वसनीय   dost   of  the  अध्यक्ष  )  थी  waved into the Oval Office  ,  where Roosevelt  थी  dictating  a  letter  .
जबकि   रूज़वेल्ट  finished his  संदेश  , Donovan turned his back  और  fired ten  गोलियाँ   into  a sandbag he had  brought   साथ  him  ,  announced  कया  he had  किया  and  हात   the   धूम्रपान   गन  to the  astonished   अध्यक्ष   .
The British  soe   (  Special Operations  कार्यपालिका  ) Welrod assassination pistol  साथ   an   अभिन्न  suppressor was also used  by  the American OSS  on   clandestine  operations  in  Nazi occupied  यूरोपीय   दौरान   the  Second  संसार   युद्ध  .
Beatrice `` Bea '' Arthur (  may  13 , 1922 – April 25 , 2009  )  was  an  American actress ,  comedienne   ,   और   सिंगर   जिनकी  career spanned  सात   दशकों   .
Arthur  हासिल   कीर्ति   as  the  अक्षर  Maude  findlay   on   the   1970s  sitcoms All in  the   परिवार  and Maude , and  as  Dorothy  zbornak  on the 1980s sitcom The  सुनहरी   लड़कियों  , winning  एमी  Awards  लिये  both roles .
A stage actress  दोनो  before  और   बाद  her  टेलीविज़न  success ,  वो  won the  टोनी  Award for Best Featured  अभिनेत्री  in  a  Musical for her  प्रदर्शन   as   वीरा  Charles in the original cast  of   mame  ( 1966 )  .
is   a  2011 Japanese 3D  computer-animated   फिल्मी   आधारित   on  the Tekken  वीडियो  game  श्रेणी  , produced by Digital  frontier   और  distributed by Asmik Ace Entertainment  in   संघ  with  बंदाई  Entertainment .
The film premiered in  उत्तर  America  by  Bandai  entertainment   on  July 26 , 2011 , and  in  Australia  on  July 27 ,  2011   in   a  special exclusive one-off screening .
it   थी   released  on  सितंबर  3 , 2011 in  जापानी  .
The  फिल्मी   थी  released on  blu-ray   डिस्क   on   नवम्बर   22  ,  2011   लिये  USA  ,  and December 1 , 2011  लिये  Japan .
इस  film was also released on DVD on November 22  ,  2011 ( 2D Version  तभी   )  .
The  फिल्मी   थी  additionally  शामिल  with  the  PlayStation  3  game , Tekken Hybrid , and  the   निन्टेंडो  3DS title , Tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
For  a   चर्चा   of  nonprofit , voluntary neighborhood  वकालत   समूह   ,  see  पड़ोस  association .
In the United States  ,  a  homeowner  association  is  a  निगम  formed by a real estate developer for the purpose  of  marketing , managing , and  selling   of  homes and lots  in  a  आवासीय  subdivision  .
it  grants  the  developer privileged voting rights in governing the  संघ   ,   जबकि  allowing  the  developer to  निकास  financial and legal  जिम्मेदारी  of the  संगठन  , typically by  transferring  ownership  of   the  association  to  the homeowners  बाद   selling   बंद  a  predetermined  number  of   लोट   .
सदस्यता  in  the  homeowners association  by  a residential buyer is typically  a  condition of purchase ; a buyer is  n't  given an  विकल्प   to   अस्वीकृत  it .
Most  homeowner  associations  हैं  incorporated , and are subject  to  state  statutes  that  govern   non-profit   corporations  and  homeowner  associations .
राज्य  oversight of homeowner associations is  minimal   ,  and mainly takes the  रूप  of laws which  हैं  inconsistent  इससे   राज्य  to state  .
कुछ  states ,  ऐसे   as  Florida and  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ,  have   a   विशाल  body of homeowner association law , and some states ,  ऐसे   as  Massachusetts  ,   have  virtually  no  homeowner association law .
The fastest  growing  form of  आवास   in  the United States today  is  common-interest developments  (   cids  ) ,  a  category  कि  includes planned-unit developments of  single-family   घरों  ,  condominiums  , and  सहकारी  apartments  .
Since 1964  ,  homeowner associations  have   become  increasingly common  in  the USA .
The Community Associations Institute trade association  अनुमानित  that HOAs governed 24.8 million American homes  और   62   लाख   निवासियों  in 2010 .
A prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
वहीँ   हैं  many breeds of  गिनी   सुअर   जिससे   have   महरूम  developed since its domestication  ca   .  5000  bc   .
Breeds  vary   widely   in   रूप   और  purpose ,  ranging  from show  breeds  with  long  , flowing  बाल  to  those  in  उपयोग   as   मॉडल   जीवों   by  science .
इससे  ca . 1200 AD  to   the  Spanish conquest  of  the Inca  साम्राज्य  in 1532 , selective breeding by indigenous  दक्षिण  American  peoples  resulted in many varieties of  घरेलू  Guinea  सूअर   ,  which  रूप  the  आधार   लिये  some  of   the  modern  घरेलू  breeds .
जल्दी  Andean breeds  यहूद  primarily  रखा  as agricultural  भण्डार  for  खाना   ,  and efforts  at  improving the  गिनी   सुअर  as  a   खाना   सोर्स  continue  to  the modern era  .
With the export  of   गिनी  pigs  to  Europe in the 15th century , the goal  in  breeding  shifted   to  focus on the  विकास  of appealing pets .
to  this end  ,  various competitive breeding  संगठन   यहूद   संस्थापित  by fanciers  .
The American  cavy  Breeders Association ,  an   adjunct  to  the  American Rabbit Breeders  संघ   ,  is the  शासी  body in the  संयुक्त  States  और   कनाडा  .
the  British  cavy   परिषद  governs cavy clubs  in  the  संयुक्त  Kingdom .
समान  organizations  मौजूद  in Australia ( Australian National Cavy  परिषद  ) and New Zealand  (  New  जीलैंड  Cavy  क्लबों   )   .
Each  क्लबों  publishes its own Standard  of  Perfection  और  determines  जिससे   breeds   हैं  eligible  लिये  showing .
New  breeds  continue to emerge  in  the 21st  सदी  .
हालांकि  there are many breeds of  गिनी   सुअर   ,   तभी  a  few  breeds are commonly found on the  दिखाएँ  table as  पालतु  .
Most Guinea pigs  मिला   as   पालतु  were  either  found undesirable  by   प्रजनक   or  were bred to be pleasant pets  regardless   of  how well they meet the  नस्ल   मानक  of  पूर्णता   .
the  short  बाल  ,  abyssinian   ,  Peruvian and Sheltie ( aka  silkie   )  breeds  हैं   those   सबसे   अक्सर  seen as pets , and the  पूर्व  three are  the  core breeds  in  the history of  the  competitive showing  of   गिनी  pigs .
in   जोड   to  their standard  रूप   ,   nearly   सब  breeds come in a Satin variant  .
Satins  ,  due to their hollow  बाल  shafts  ,   possess   coats  of a special gloss and  चमक  .
however  , there is  growing  evidence  कि   the  genes responsible  लिये  the Satin coat also  can  cause severe  अस्थि   समस्याएं   ,   सहित  Osteodystrophy and Paget 's  बीमारी  .
Showing Satin variations is  निषिद्ध  by  कुछ   cavy  breeders  '   एसोसिएशन  because of animal welfare reasons  .
All cavy breeds have some  साझा   सामान्य  standards  :   the  head  प्रोफ़ाइल   चाहिए   be  rounded  ,  with large eyes and large , smooth  कानों   .
The body should be strong and of compact  निर्माण  .
कोट  colour should in all variations be clearly defined  और   thorough   इससे  root  to  tip .
ये   मानकों  are best  मिले  by  long   स्थापित  ,  commonly   करवाया  breeds  ,   as  their  प्रजनक  have had enough time  और   पशु   to  effectively breed  लिये   ये  qualities  .
the  coat  रंग   आदर्श  of good  परिभाषा  and  thoroughness  is rarely met  by  other than  the  smooth coated  breeds  , which have had  खूब   स्थापित  , separate breeding lines  लिये  different colours .
State schools ( also known  as   पब्लिक  schools or  सरकारी   स्कूलों   )  generally refer to  प्राथमिक  or  द्वितीयक  schools mandated  लिये   or   offered   to  all children  बगैर   चार्ज  paid  लिये  ,  in   पूरे  or in  भाग  ,  by  taxation .
The term may also refer to  संस्थानों  of  post-secondary   शिक्षा   वित्तपोषित  ,  in   पूरे   or  in  भाग  ,  और  overseen by government .
The ribosome assembles polymeric  प्रोटीन  molecules whose sequence is controlled by  the  sequence of messenger RNA molecules  .
इस   is   जरूरी  by all living  कोशिकाएं   और  associated viruses  .
The ribosome  (   इससे   ribonucleic  acid  और   the   यूनानी  soma ,  अर्थ   ``  body ''  )  is a large and complex  आणविक   यंत्र   ,  found within all  जीना   कोशिकाएं   ,  that serves as the  प्राथमिक  site of  biological  protein synthesis  (  translation  )   .
Ribosomes  कड़ी  amino acids together  in  the order  निर्दिष्ट   by   मेसेंजर  RNA (  mrna  )  अणुओं  .
Ribosomes consist of  दो  major subunits—the small ribosomal  subunit  reads  the   mrna  ,  जबकि  the large subunit  joins  amino  acids  to form a polypeptide  कड़ी  .
Each  subunit  is composed  of  one or more  ribosomal  RNA ( rRNA ) molecules  और  a variety  of  proteins .
The sequence of  डीएनए   एन्कोडिंग   लिये   a   प्रोटीन   may  be  कॉपी  many times into messenger RNA  (   mrna  ) chains of a  समान  sequence  .
ribosomes  can  bind   to  an  mrna  chain  और  use  it  as  a  template for  determining   the  correct sequence of  अमीनो  acids in a  particular  protein  .
अमीनो  acids are  चयनित  ,  एकत्रित   और  carried to the ribosome by  ट्रांसफ़र   rna   (   trna   अणुओं  )  ,  which enter  एक  part  of   the   राइबोसोम  and bind to  the   मेसेंजर   rna   कड़ी   .
the   संलग्न  amino  acids  are  तब   linked  together by  another  part of the ribosome .
Once  the  protein is produced , it  can  then 'fold  '  to produce  a  specific functional  three-dimensional  structure .
A ribosome  is   बना  from complexes of RNAs and proteins and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein  .
Each ribosome is  विभाजित  into two  subunits  : the  छोटी   subunit   बांधता   to   the   mrna  pattern ,  जबकि  the larger subunit  बांधता  to the tRNA  और  the  अमीनो  acids .
जब  a ribosome finishes reading  an  mRNA  अणु  ,  ये  two subunits  विभाजित  apart  .
Ribosomes are  ribozymes  , because the  catalytic  peptidyl transferase activity  कि  links amino  acids  together is performed  by  the  ribosomal   rna  .
Ribosomes  इससे   जीवाणु   ,   आर्किया  and eukaryotes  (  the three  डोमेन   of  life on  धरती   )  differ  in  their  आकार  ,  अनुक्रम  ,  ढांचा   ,  and the  अनुपात   of  protein to  rna  .
the  differences in structure allow some antibiotics  to  kill bacteria  by  inhibiting their  ribosomes   ,  while  leaving  human  ribosomes  unaffected .
In bacteria  और  archaea , more than one  राइबोसोम  may move along  a   सिंगल   mrna  chain at one  समय   ,   प्रत्येक  ``  पढना   ''  its sequence  और   producing   a  corresponding  प्रोटीन  molecule .
The ribosomes in  the  mitochondria  of  eukaryotic cells  functionally  resemble  अनेक   सुविधाएँ  of those in bacteria  ,   reflecting   the  likely evolutionary  उत्पत्ति   of  mitochondria .
अल्बर्ट  Claude  ,  Christian de  duve  ,  और  George Emil Palade  यहूद  jointly  awarded   the   नोबेल   पुरस्कार   in   physiology  or Medicine , in  1974  ,  लिये  the discovery of the ribosomes .
the  Nobel Prize in Chemistry  2009  was awarded  to   venkatraman   रामकृष्णन  , Thomas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for  determining  the  विस्तृत   ढांचा   और  mechanism  of  the  राइबोसोम   .
The simplified internal structure of  a   हरितलवक
अवलोकन   of   the   calvin  cycle and carbon fixation
the   light-independent  reactions  of  photosynthesis  हैं  chemical reactions  कि  convert carbon  डाइऑक्साइड  and other compounds into  ग्लूकोज  .
These  प्रतिक्रियाएँ  occur  in   the   stroma   ,  the  fluid-filled  area of a  हरितलवक   बाहर   of  the thylakoid  झिल्लियों  .
These reactions  लो  the light-dependent  प्रतिक्रियाएँ  and perform further chemical  प्रक्रियाओं  on them  .
वहीँ  are  तीन  phases  to  the light-independent reactions  ,   collectively   पुकारा  the Calvin  साईकिल   :  carbon  fixation  ,  कटौती   प्रतिक्रियाएँ   ,  and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP  )   regeneration   .
Despite  इसके   नाम   ,  this process occurs  तभी   जब   लाइट  is  उपलब्धियाँ  .
Plants  do  not carry out the Calvin  साईकिल   by  night .
वे  ,  बजाय  , release sucrose into the phloem  इससे  their  मंड   reserves  .
This  प्रक्रम   happens  when light  is  available  स्वतंत्र   of   the  kind of  photosynthesis   (  C3  कार्बन   fixation   ,   c4  carbon  fixation  ,  और   crassulacean   एसिड  Metabolism )  ;  CAM plants  स्टोर  malic acid  in  their vacuoles every night  और  release  it  by day in  अनुक्रम  to make  इस  process  कार्य  .
In mathematics , a square  क्रमांक  or  पूर्ण   वर्गाकार   is  an integer that  is  the square  of   an   पूर्णांक  ; in other words  ,  it is the  उत्पाद  of some integer  साथ  itself .
For example , 9  is   a   वर्गाकार  number  ,  since it  can   be  written as  .
The usual  संकेतन  for the formula  लिये   the   वर्गाकार  of a  क्रमांक  is not the  उत्पाद  , but  the   समतुल्य  exponentiation , usually pronounced as  ``   वर्गाकार  '' .
the   नाम   वर्गाकार   क्रमांक  comes  इससे  the name of the shape  ;  see below .
वर्गाकार  numbers  हैं   non-negative  .
Another  रास्ता   of   saying  that a (  non-negative  ) number  is  a  वर्गाकार  number  ,   is  that its square  जड़ें  are  again  integers .
लिये   उदाहरण   ,  = ±3  ,  so 9 is a square  क्रमांक  .
A positive integer that  रै   no   पूर्ण   वर्गाकार   divisors  except 1 is called square-free .
For a  non-negative  integer  ,  the  th   वर्गाकार  number is , with being the zeroth square  .
The  अवधारणा   of  square  can  be  विस्तारित   to   कुछ  other number systems .
If rational  संख्याएँ  are included ,  तब  a square  is  the ratio of  दो   वर्गाकार  integers , and  ,   conversely   ,  the ratio of two  वर्गाकार  integers is a square ( e.g.  ,  4/9  =  (  2/3  )  2  ) .
Starting with 1 , there are square numbers  up  to  और  including , where  the  expression represents  the   मंजिल  of the  क्रमांक   .
The Era  of   शुभ   जज्बात   चिह्नित   a  period  in   the  political history  of  the United States that reflected  a   भाव   of  national purpose and  a  desire for  एकता  among Americans in  the   aftermath   of   the  Napoleonic  युद्धों  .
The  era  saw the collapse of  the  Federalist  पार्टी  and an  समाप्त  to the bitter partisan disputes between it and the  प्रबल   democratic-republican  party  दौरान   the   पहला   पार्टी   प्रणाली  .
President  जेम्स  Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan  संबद्ध   in   बनाना  his  nominations   ,  with  the   परम  goal of national  एकता   और   eliminating  parties altogether  इससे   नेशनल   राजनीती   .
the  period is so closely associated  साथ   मुनरो  's presidency (  1817–1825   )  and his administrative goals that his  नाम  and  the  era are  वस्तुतः  synonymous  .
The  era   of   शुभ  Feelings marked  a  transition  in  American politics with  the  end of  the  Federalist  पार्टी  as America  began  to develop  बाद   the  War of  1812  .
जबकि  America  थी  experiencing growth  और  prosperity after  the  war  साथ  Britain ,  इस   era  also marks the first  उदाहरण  of  आर्थिक  troubles in the growing  संयुक्त  States  .
Mirroring the  अमरीकी  System proposed  by  Henry  मिट्टी   ,  protective tariffs and the chartering  of  the Second Bank of  the  United States complicated the tension between  the   उत्तर  and South  साथ   the  coming  of  the  पहला  financial  संकट   .
जबकि  the  पद  “Era  of  Good Feelings” is usually  viewed   साथ   विडंबना  because  of  the  राजनैतिक   turmoil   ,  economic  कारकों  caused  animosity   between   the  North and South  .
The designation of  the  period by historians  as  one  of  “good feelings”  is   प्रायः   conveyed  with irony  or   skepticism  , as  the  history of  the  era was one  in   जिससे  the political  माहौल  was strained and divisive , especially among factions within the Monroe administration  और  the Republican Party  .
the   phrase   “era  of Good  feelings”  was coined by  बेंजामिन  Russell  ,  in the Boston Federalist newspaper  ,  Columbian  centinel  , on  जुलाई  12 , 1817 , following  मुनरो  's  विज़िट  to Boston , Massachusetts as part of his good  होगा   दौरे  of America .
mariel   मार्गरेट  `` Mia  ''  Hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 )  is   a   रिटायर्ड  American professional  सॉकर  player .
Hamm played many years as a forward for  the  United States women 's national soccer team and was a founding member  of  the  वॉशिंगटन  Freedom .
hamm   scored  158  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  goals  ,  more than  कोई  other player  ,  male  or   मादा   ,  in the  इतिहास  of soccer  और  is the  तीसरा  most capped female  खिलाड़ी  in soccer history behind Kristine Lilly  और   क्रिस्टी   rampone  ,  appearing  in 275 international  मिलान  .
hamm  was  नामित  the women  's  FIFA World Player  of   the  Year the  पहला  two times  कि   पुरस्कार   थी   दिए   (  in 2001  और   2002  ) , and  is  listed as one  of   फीफा   's   125  best  जीना   खिलाड़ी   (  as chosen  by  Pelé  )   .
वो   थी   inducted  into the National Soccer  हॉल   of  Fame as well  as  the Alabama Sports Hall  of   कीर्ति  and  टेक्सास  Sports Hall of Fame  .
She  is  the  लेखक   of  Go  लिये  the Goal :  a   चैंपियन   's  Guide to  जीतना   in  Soccer  और   जीवन  and appeared  in   the  HBO  वृत्तचित्र   हिम्मत  to Dream : The Story of  the   u.S.   महिलाओं  's  सॉकर  Team .
वॉशिंगटन  Post columnist Michael Wilbon called Hamm ,  ``  Perhaps the most  महत्वपूर्ण   खिलाड़ी  of the  पिछला   15  years . ''
hamm  takes a corner  लात  .
The  नई  York Red Bulls is  an  American professional  सॉकर   टोली   आधारित  in Harrison  ,  New Jersey , representing the New York metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  .
The team  competes   in   the  Eastern  सम्मेलन   of  Major League  सॉकर   (  MLS  )   .
It  is  one of  the  ten  चार्टर  clubs  of   mls  ,  having   competed  in the  लीग  since  इसके   inception  .
the   टोली   थी  a founding member  of   mls  ( 1996  )  , but  रै   गए   through  several name changes  .
The team  थी   originally  known  as  the  नई  York/New Jersey  metrostars   through   1997  .
इससे  the 1998  ऋतु   through   the  2005  ऋतु  , the  टोली   थी   ज्ञात  as the  metrostars  .
on  March 9  ,  2006 , the team was sold to  रेड  Bull GmbH  ,   अग्रणी   to   the   टोली  's current name .
वे  are the only  असली   mls   मताधिकार   नहीं  to  have  won  कोई   significant  trophy ( including  नियमित   ऋतु  ,  playoffs   ,  and  नॉकआउट  competition ) since  inception  .
the  team 's  बेहतरीन  result in  the   mls  was the  mls  Cup final  in   2008   .
In  the  US  खोलें  Cup  ,  the  metrostars  reached  तीन  semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 ,  2000   )  , before reaching their first  फाइनल   in  2003  ,   खोने   1–0  to the Chicago  आग  .
on  August 26 ,  2000  , the Metros '  क्लिंट   mathis  set an  mls  record by scoring  पाँच  goals  in   a  game against  the  Dallas  बर्न  .
कुछ  well-known players that have played for  the  team include  giovanni  Savarese  ,   टिम   हावर्ड  ,  टोनी   meola  ,  tab  Ramos  ,  Alexi  lalas  ,  क्लिंट   mathis   ,   jozy   altidore  ,  माइकल  Bradley , Claudio Reyna , Eddie  पोप   ,   रॉबर्टो  Donadoni  ,  Lothar Matthäus ,  एडोल्फो  Valencia  ,   youri  Djorkaeff  ,  Amado Guevara , Juan  पाब्लो   ángel   ,   thierry  Henry , Juninho Pernambucano  ,   जन   गुन्नार   solli  , Rafael  मार्ख़ेस  , and Tim  काहिल   .
The team  रै   भी   था  well-known  कोच  , including Carlos Queiroz ,  कार्लोस  Alberto Parreira ,  बोरा  Milutinović  ,  Bob Bradley  ,  Mo  johnston   ,  Bruce Arena and  hans   backe  .
confucianism  ,  taoism   ,   और   buddhism  are one , a painting in the litang style portraying  तीन   मेन   हँस  by a river  स्ट्रीम   ,   12th   सदी   ,  Song Dynasty  .
estimating   the   क्रमांक  of Buddhists in  the  world  ,  or  in  many countries  ,   is   मुश्किल  due  to  definitional issues as  खूब  as  व्यावहारिक  problems of  enumeration  .
to  begin  साथ  , the religious  मान्यताओं   ,  practices  ,   और  identities of East Asians ( who  comprise  the majority  of  the world 's  बौद्धों  by any  माप  )  प्रायः   मिश्रण  Buddhism with  अन्य   परंपराओं   सहित  Confucianism ,  the  Chinese folk religion , Daoism , Shinto , and Korean  shamanism  .
सबसे  followers  of  Buddhism do not belong  to  structured congregations ,  or  observe a definite ritual of  adherence  such as taking Refuge , making it difficult  to  accurately estimate the number of practitioners .
an  additional  चुनौती  is  the  hostility of  अनेक   नेशनल   सरकारें  (  प्रायः  Communist ones  ऐसे   as  China or North  कोरियाई   )  to religion generally  or  to  buddhism  specifically .
सरकारी   नीतियों  in these  देशों   may  encourage the  under-reporting  or non-reporting  of   धार्मिक   adherence  , resulting in  आधिकारिक  totals that may  drastically  underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these  देशों   .
अनुमान  of the  विश्वव्यापी   बौद्ध  population range from 350  लाख   to  over one  अरब   ,  but cluster  nearer  to the first  फिगर  .
adherents.com   (   as  of 2012  )  suggests a figure  of   397  million  .
By major branches , the  संख्याएँ  are  as  follows:
(  1 ) Mahayana  buddhism   ,   सहित  East  एशियाई  Buddhism  ,  with no  कम   than  185  लाख  adherents , and possibly  अनेक   टाइम्स  that  अनेक   (  again , depending on definitional issues )  .
This is  the   predominant   रूप  of Buddhism  practiced  in  चीन  , South Korea , Japan  ,  Taiwan , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism , with no fewer  than  125 million adherents  .
इस  is the predominant form of  buddhism   practiced   in   कंबोडिया   ,   थाईलैंड  , Laos , Sri Lanka , and  बर्मा   .
(  3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism , with approximately 20  लाख   adherents  .
This form  predominates  in  the  greater Tibetan  और  Mongolian regions  ,  as  खूब  as  in  the  हिमालय  .
Besides  the   स्वतंत्र  countries of Mongolia and Bhutan  ,  and various territories  भीतर  what  is   अभी  western  चीन   ,   वज्रयान  is  परंपरागत   to   निश्चित  regions  of  Russia  (   e.g  . Kalmykia  ,  Buryatia  )  , India ( e.g .  लद्दाख  ,  सिक्किम   )  , and Nepal  (  e.g . Khumbu  )   .
वज्रयान   ,  also known as  तिब्बती  Buddhism , is often conflated  साथ   तांत्रिक  Buddhism , but  इस  is imprecise  ,   as  Shingon and other forms of  ईस्ट  Asian  buddhism  also practice tantra .
At  तनिक   7   देशों   (  Sri Lanka  ,   थाईलैंड   ,   कंबोडिया  ,  लाओस  ,  बर्मा  , Bhutan  ,   और  Mongolia  )  have  unambiguous  Buddhist  majorities  .
Depending  on  how one  calculates  Chinese  और  other East  एशियाई  adherents  ,  this  फिगर  might expand to include  अनेक  more countries .
in  addition ,  buddhism  is  the   राज्य  religion of  कंबोडिया  and  भूटान  , and receives  prominent  mention in the  constitutions  of Thailand and Sri  लंका  .
In northern India and  नेपाल  , the land where Buddhism was born ,  the  religion severely declined during  the   पहला  millennium .
Whether  इस   मनाही  was due to the Islamic conquest of  उत्तरी  India , or  to  other  कारकों   ,   remains  controversial .
देखिए  the article Decline of  buddhism   in  India .
जेम्स   बटलर  Hickok ( May 27  ,   1837  – August  2   ,   1876  ) , better known as  जंगली  Bill  hickok   ,  was a  लोक  hero of  the   अमरीकी  Old West .
उसके  skills  as  a  gunfighter   और  scout , along  साथ  his reputation  as  a lawman ,  provided  the basis for his fame ,  हालांकि  some  of   उसके  reported  कारनामे   हैं   fictionalized  .
Born  और  raised  on   a  farm  in   ग्रामीण  Illinois , Hickok went west at age 18  as   a  fugitive from justice  ,   पहला   working   as   a   stagecoach  driver  ,  before he became a  lawman  in the frontier  territories  of  कान्सास  and  नेब्रास्का   .
He  लड़ा  for the Union Army during the American Civil  युद्ध  , and  gained   publicity  after the war  as  a  स्काउट  , marksman ,  कर्ता  ,  और  professional gambler .
between  his law-enforcement duties and  जुए  ,  जिससे  easily  overlapped  , Hickok  थी  involved in  अनेक   notable   shootouts  .
He  थी   शॉट   और   मारे  while playing poker in the  nuttal   &   मन   's  Saloon in Deadwood  ,  Dakota Territory  (  now South  डकोटा   )  .
Artist 's  धारणा   of   the  Curiosity rover vaporizing rock  on   मंगल   .
The rover  उतरा  on  मंगल  in  अगस्त  2012  .
A Mars  रोवर  is an automated  मोटर  vehicle which  propels  itself  आरपार  the surface  of  the planet  मंगल  after landing .
Rovers have  अनेक  advantages over stationary  landers  :  वे  examine  अधिक  territory  ,  they can  be   निर्देशित  to  दिलचस्प  features , they can place themselves in  सनी   स्थितियाँ  to  मौसम  winter  महीने  and  वे   can  advance  the   ज्ञान  of how  to  perform  बहुत   रिमोट   रोबोटिक   गाडी  control .
There  have  been  चार  successful robotically  संचालित  Mars rovers .
The  जेट   नोदन  Laboratory managed  the   मंगल  Pathfinder mission  और  its  अभी  inactive  sojourner  rover .
it   फिलहाल   manages  the Mars Exploration Rover  मिशन   's  active Opportunity rover and  निष्क्रिय   स्पिरिट  , and , as  भाग  of  the   मंगल   विज्ञान  Laboratory  मिशन   ,   the  Curiosity  रोवर  .
a  financial audit  ,   or   अधिक   accurately  , an audit of financial statements ,  is  the  सत्यापन   of  the  वित्तीय   कथन   of  a legal  एंटिटी   ,   साथ  a  दृश्य   to  express  an  audit  राय  .
The audit  राय   is   intended  to provide reasonable  परख  ,  लकिन  not absolute  परख  , that the  वित्तीय  statements are presented fairly ,  in  all  सामग्री  respects ,  and/or  give  a  true and fair  दृश्य   in  accordance  साथ  the financial  रिपोर्टिंग  framework  .
The  purpose  of an  ऑडिट   is  provide and objective  स्वतंत्र   परिक्षा  of  the  financial statements  ,  which increases the  मान   और  credibility of  the   वित्तीय  statements produced  by  management  ,  thus increase user confidence in  the   वित्तीय  statement ,  reduce  investor  रिस्क  and  नतीजतन   reduce  the cost of  पूंजी  of  the   preparer  of  the  financial statements  .
Financial audits  हैं   typically  performed by firms  of  practicing accountants who are  विशेषज्ञ  in  वित्तीय  reporting  .
the  financial  ऑडिट   is  one  of   अनेक   परख   कृत्यों   provided   by  accounting firms .
Many organizations  separately  employ  or  hire internal auditors , who do  नहीं  attest to  वित्तीय   रिपोर्ट्स  but focus  मुख्यतः   on   the   आतंरिक  controls of the organization .
External  auditors   may  choose  to  place  सीमित  reliance  on  the  कार्य   of   आतंरिक  auditors .
Auditing promotes  पारदर्शिता   और  accuracy  in   the  financial disclosures made by  an  organization ,  इसलिए  would likely  to   reduce  of  ऐसे  corporations to  छिपाते   unscrupulous  dealings  .
internationally   ,   the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   मानकों  on Auditing ( ISA ) issued by the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   auditing  and Assurance Standards  फलक  ( IAASB )  is  considered as the benchmark  लिये  audit process .
Almost all jurisdictions  आवश्यकता  auditors to follow  the  ISA  or   a  local variation of  the   isa   .
Dollar coins  have  been minted in the United  राज्य   in   सुनहरा  , silver  ,   और   आधार  metal versions  .
The term silver dollar is often used  लिये   कोई  large white metal coin  जारी   by   the  United States with  a   फेस   मान   of  one dollar  ,   हालांकि   purists   जिद  that a  डालर  is not silver unless it contains  कुछ  of that metal  .
Silver dollars  ,  the first dollar coin issue  ,  were minted beginning  in   1794   .
Gold  डॉलर  and gold-colored dollars  have  also  महरूम   उत्पादित  by the  संयुक्त  States .
the  Sacagawea  और  Presidential dollars are  प्रायः  referred to as `` golden dollars  ''  .
In  आधुनिक   टाइम्स   ,  dollar coins have  नहीं  been very popular in the  संयुक्त   राज्य   .
despite  efforts by the  सरकारी  to  प्रचार  their use ,  सबसे   अमेरिकी  currently use the  एक  dollar  विधेयक  rather than dollar  सिक्के   .
In straight  और  level  उड़ान  lift ( L  )   बराबरी   वज़न   (  W )  .
In a banked  फेरे  of 60°  ,  lift equals double  the  weight ( L=2W )  .
the   पायलट  experiences  2g  and a doubled weight .
The steeper  the  bank , the greater  the  g-forces  .
This  top-fuel  dragster  can   accelerate  from zero to  in  0.86 seconds  .
इस  is a horizontal  त्वरण  of 5.3 g.  संयुक्त   साथ  the vertical  g-force  in the  stationary   मामला   the  Pythagorean theorem yields  a  g  फ़ोर्स  of 5.4  g  .
g-force ( with  g   इससे  gravitational ) is  a  term for  accelerations  felt  as  weight  और  measurable by accelerometers  .
it   is  not  a  force ,  प्रति   se   ,   लकिन   a   फ़ोर्स  per unit  द्रव्यमान  .
Since such  a   फ़ोर्स   is   आभास   as  a weight , any g-force  can  be  वर्णित  as a  ``  weight per unit mass ''  (  see the  पर्याय   विशिष्ट   वज़न   )  .
The  g-force  acceleration  अधिनियमों   as   a   गुणक  of weight-like forces for every  ईकाई   of   an  object 's  द्रव्यमान  ,  और   (   सहेजें   लिये   निश्चित   इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  force  प्रभाव  ) is  the   कारण  of an object 's  त्वरण  in  संबंध  to  free-fall   .
This acceleration experienced by an object is due to  the  vector sum  of  non-gravitational  शक्तियां  acting on  an  object free to  मूव  .
The accelerations that  हैं  not produced by gravity  हैं  termed  उचित  accelerations ,  और  it is only  ये  that are measured in g-force units .
वे  cause  तनावों   और  strains on objects .
क्युकी   of  these strains  ,  large  g-forces  may be destructive .
gravitation  acting alone  करता  not produce a g-force , even though  g-forces   हैं  expressed  in   multiples   of   the   त्वरण  of a standard gravity  .
Thus  ,  the  मानक   गुरुत्वाकर्षक  acceleration  at  the  धरती   's  surface produces  g-force  only indirectly , as  a  result of resistance to  it  by mechanical  शक्तियां   .
The 1 g-force on an object sitting  on  the  धरती  's surface  is  caused by mechanical force  exerted   in  the  upward   दिशा   by   the  ground  ,   keeping   the   ऑब्जेक्ट  from  going  into  free-fall  .
The upward  फ़ोर्स  from  the   मैदान   ensures  that an object at rest  on  the Earth 's surface  is  accelerating relative to the free-fall condition  ,  which is the  पाथ   कि  the  ऑब्जेक्ट   होता   follow   जब  falling freely toward  the  Earth 's center .
Objects allowed  to  free-fall in an  inertial  trajectory under the  influence  of gravitation-only ,  महसूस  no g-force .
This  is   demonstrated  by the `` zero-g '' conditions  अंदर   a  freely  गिरना   लिफ्ट  falling toward the Earth 's  बीच  ( in vacuum ) ,  or  (  to  good approximation )  शर्तें  inside  a  spacecraft  in   धरती   कक्षा   .
These are examples of coordinate acceleration  (  a  बदलें   in   गति  )  बगैर  a  सनसनी  of weight .
The  अनुभव  of  no   g-force  (  zero-g   )  , however it is  उत्पादित  ,  is  synonymous  साथ  weightlessness  .
in  the  अनुपस्थिति   of  gravitational fields  ,   or  in directions  at  right angles to them , proper and  निर्देशांक  accelerations  हैं   the  same  ,  and  कोई  coordinate acceleration must be produced by  a   सम्बन्धित   g-force   त्वरण   .
an   उदाहरण  here  is  a rocket  in  free space  ,   in   जिससे   सरल  changes in velocity are produced by  the   इंजन  , and produce g-forces on  the  rocket  और  passengers  .
An augur holding  a  lituus ,  the  curved wand often used  as  a  प्रतीक  of augury on  रोमन  coins
the  augur  थी   a   पुजारी  and official in the classical world  ,   विशेषकर  ancient  रोम  and  etruria   .
उसके  main role was to  interpret   the   होगा   of  the  देवताओं   by   अध्ययन   the  flight of  पक्षियों   :  whether they  हैं  flying in  समूह   or  alone  ,   कया   noises  they make as  वे  fly  ,  direction  of   उड़ान  and what kind of birds they are .
इस  was known as `` taking  the  auspices . ''
The ceremony and function of the  augur  was  सेंट्रल  to  कोई  major undertaking in Roman society—public or private—including matters  of   युद्ध  , commerce  ,   और  religion .
The Roman historian  livy  stresses the importance of the  augurs  : `` Who does not know that  इस   नगर   थी  founded  तभी  after taking the auspices , that  सबकुछ   in  war and in peace  ,  at home and abroad  ,  was done  तभी   बाद  taking  the   auspices  ?  ''
farmington   पहाड़ियाँ  is an affluent community in  southeastern   मिशिगन   .
It is the  दूसरी  largest city in  ओकलैंड  County  in  the U.S. state of Michigan .
इसके  population was 79,740 at the  2010   जनसांख्यिकी  .
it  is part of  the   upscale   northwestern  suburbs  of  Metropolitan  डेट्रॉयट  and is also  पूर्वोत्तर  of downtown Ann  arbor  .
Farmington  पहाड़ियाँ  consistently ranks as one of the safest cities  in  the United  राज्य  , as well as in  the  state of  मिशिगन  .
in  2010  ,  the area ranked as the  30th   safest   नगर   in  America .
Although the two cities  have   पृथक  services and  पता  , Farmington and  farmington  Hills  हैं  often  विचार  of  as  the same  जातियाँ  .
सुविधाएँ  of the  जातियाँ  include  a   recently  renovated downtown , boutiques ,  a   विंटेज   सिनेमा  , numerous restaurants  ,  exotic car  dealerships  ,  आर्ट   गैलरी  ,  और  public parks including  विरासत  Park .
There are several historical sites  सहित  the  longacre  House  और  the Governor Warner Mansion  .
दोनो   शहरों  are  परोसा   by  Farmington  पब्लिक   स्कूलों  .
Farmington  पहाड़ियाँ  serves  as  a major  कारोबार  center  लिये  the greater  डेट्रॉयट  area  .
Present-day  छाप  of a Late  कांस्य  Age seal
Town seal (  मेट्रिक्स  )  of  Náchod from  1570
A seal is  a  device for  बनाना  an impression in wax , clay  ,  paper , or some other  मीडियम  , including an embossment on paper  ,  and is also the impression thus made  .
The original purpose  थी  to authenticate  a  document ,  a   wrapper  for  एक  such as  a   आधुनिक  envelope ,  or  the cover of a  संग्राहक  or package holding valuables or other  वस्तुएँ  .
The sealing process  is   essentially   कि   of   a  mould  ,   साथ  the final image represented  on  the  यंत्र   लिये  making the impression by a mirror-image design ,  incised  in sunken-  (  or counter- )  राहत   or   intaglio   .
the  seal-making device is also referred to  as   the  seal matrix  or  die  ;   the  imprint  it  creates  as   the  seal impression ( or ,  अधिक  rarely  ,   the  sealing  )  .
If  the   छाप   is  made  purely   as  a relief resulting from the greater pressure  on  the paper where the  ऊँची   भाग  of the matrix  टच   ,  the seal  is  known as  a   शुष्क  seal ; in  सब   अन्य  cases a  द्रव   or  liquified  मीडियम  ( such as ink or wax ) is  प्रयुक्त  ,  प्रायः  in  another  color  than   the  paper .
लिये   विधिक  purposes , the definition of a seal may be extended to  शामिल   रबर  stamps  ,  or writing specified words  (   ``  seal ''  or   ``   l.s  . `` ) .
In the  संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  the   शब्द  `` seal  ''  is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of  the  seal  डिज़ाइन   (  in monochrome or  रंग  )  ,  which  may  be used  in   a  variety of  contexts  including architectural  जमावट  , on flags  ,  or on official  letterheads   .
Thus  ,  for example ,  the  Great Seal of the United  राज्य  ,  among  other  उपयोग  , appears on  the   रिवर्स  of the one-dollar  विधेयक   ;   और  several of the  seals  of the  u.S.  states appear on their  संबंधित  state flags  .
In Europe  ,   हालांकि   coats  of  बाहें  and heraldic badges may well feature in  ऐसे   contexts  as  खूब  as  on  seals , the  मुहर  design in  इसके  entirety rarely appears as an emblem  .
The  पढ़ाई  of  seals   is  known as  sigillography  or sphragistics .
Groundhog Day ( Pennsylvania German  :   grundsaudaag   ,   murmeltiertag   )  is  a  day celebrated on February  2   .
according   to   लोकगीत   ,   if  it  is   cloudy   जब  a groundhog emerges from its burrow  on  this day , then spring will come  जल्दी   ;  if  it  is sunny  ,  the groundhog  होगा  supposedly see  इसके   छाया  and retreat back into its  burrow   ,  and the winter  मौसम   होगा   continue  for six  अधिक   सप्ताह   .
Modern customs of  the  holiday involve celebrations where  जल्दी  morning  त्यौहार  are  आयोजित  to  देखें   the  groundhog emerging from its burrow .
in  southeastern Pennsylvania  ,  Groundhog  lodges   (   grundsow  Lodges )  celebrate   the  holiday  साथ   fersommlinge   ,  social events  in   जिससे  food is  परोसा   ,  speeches are  बना  , and one or more g'spiel  (   plays  or skits ) are performed  लिये   entertainment   .
the  Pennsylvania  जर्मनी  dialect is the only  भाषा  spoken  at   the  event ,  और  those who  बोलो   अंग्रेज़ी   अदा   a  penalty  ,   प्रायः   in  the form of  a  nickel ,  dime  , or  क्वार्टर   प्रति  word spoken  ,   साथ  the money put  into   a   कटोरी  in the  बीच  of the table  .
The  largest  Groundhog Day celebration is held in  punxsutawney  ,  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized and popular  परंपरा  , received widespread attention as a result  of   the  1993 film Groundhog  दिन  ,  जिससे   थी  set  in  Punxsutawney  ,  PA  (   हालांकि  filmed primarily in Woodstock ,  il  )  और   portrayed  Punxsutawney  फिल  .
High resolution  चित्र  of  tampa  Bay  प्रदेश
The Tampa  खाड़ी  area has a humid subtropical climate  (   koppen  Cfa  )  , with warm  और  humid summers with frequent thunderstorms and drier winters with freezing temperatures occurring every 2–3  सालो   .
The area  अनुभवों  a significant  गर्मियाँ   गीला   ऋतु   ,  as nearly  two-thirds   of  the  सालाना  precipitation  जलप्रपात  in  the  months  of   जून  through  सितंबर  .
the  area  is   सूचीबद्ध  by  the   संयुक्त  States Department of Agriculture ( USDA  )   as  being  in  hardiness zone  10  , which is  परिचय  the  उत्तरी   सीमा   of   जहाँ  coconut  हथेलियां  and royal  हथेलियां  can  be  grown  .
highs   प्रायः   दायरा  between  65  and 95 °F  (  18  और  35 °C ) year  गोलाकार  .
Though  ज्ञात   लिये  hot  ग्रीष्म  , Tampa  's  official high has never  पहुँचे  100 °F  (  38 °C ) –  the  city 's all-time record  तापमान  is  99   °f   (   37  °C  )  .
St. Petersburg  's   all-time  record  ऊँची  is exactly  100  °F  (  38  °c  ) .
Pinellas County lies  on  a peninsula between  tampa   खाड़ी  and  the  Gulf  of  Mexico , and  much   of   the  city of  tampa  lies  on  a smaller peninsula  jutting  out into  tampa  Bay .
इस   निकटता  to large bodies  of  water both moderates temperatures and introduces large amounts of  आर्द्रता  into  the   माहौल   .
In general  ,  the local communities  farthest   इससे  the  coast   have  larger temperature  सीमाएँ  ,  दोनो   दौरान   a  single day  और  throughout the seasons of the  साल  .
A diagram of  the   इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक   वर्णक्रम   ,   प्रर्दशित  various properties  आरपार   the  range  of  frequencies  और  wavelengths
The  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक   वर्णक्रम  is the  दायरा   of  all possible frequencies  of  electromagnetic radiation  .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum  ''  of an  ऑब्जेक्ट  has a  अलग  meaning ,  और   is   बजाय   the  characteristic  वितरण  of electromagnetic radiation emitted  or  absorbed by that  particular  object .
the  electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम   extends   इससे  below  the  low frequencies used for  आधुनिक   रेडियो  communication  to  gamma  विकिरण   at  the short- wavelength (  high-frequency  ) end  ,   thereby   covering  wavelengths  इससे  thousands of kilometers  bas   to  a  भिन्न  of  the  size of an  अणु   .
the  limit  लिये  long wavelengths is the size of the universe  itself   ,   जबकि   it   is  thought that the short wavelength limit is in  the  vicinity of the  प्लांक   लंबाई   ,   हालांकि   in  principle the spectrum is  अनन्त   और   निरन्तर  .
Most parts  of  the electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम  are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing  interactions   ,  as  तरीके  to  पढ़ाई   और  characterize matter .
In  जोड   ,  radiation from various parts of  the  spectrum has  मिला  many  अन्य   उपयोग  for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic  विकिरण  for more applications  )  .
लेजेंड
Franklin Delano Roosevelt (  or   ;   जनवरी  30 ,  1882   –   अप्रैल   12  , 1945 ) ,  भी  known by his initials ,  fdr  , was the 32nd President of  the   संयुक्त  States  (  1933–1945 ) and a  सेंट्रल   फिगर  in world events  दौरान  the mid-20th century , leading  the  United  राज्य  during a time of  विश्वव्यापी   आर्थिक   अवसाद   और  total war .
A  प्रबल   नेता   of   the  Democratic  पार्टी  and the only American president elected to  अधिक  than  दो   शर्तें   ,  he  निर्मित  a New  सौदे   गठबन्धन  that  realigned  American politics after 1932 ,  as  his domestic policies  पारिभाषित  American liberalism for  the   मध्य  third of the  20th   सदी   .
With  the  bouncy popular  सोंग  ``  प्रसन्न  Days Are Here Again `` as his  अभियान  theme  ,  FDR  पराजित   लाज़िम  Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932  ,  at  the   गहराई  of  the  Great Depression  .
सक्रिय  by  उसके  personal victory over polio  ,   fdr  's unfailing optimism and  सक्रियता  contributed to  a  renewal of the national spirit .
he  worked closely with  अंग्रेजों  Prime  मंत्री  Winston  चर्चिल   और  Soviet  सामान्य  Secretary Joseph  स्टालिन   in  leading  the  Allies against Germany  और  Japan  in  World  युद्ध  II  ,   और   restoring  prosperity  to   the   स्वदेश  's  अर्थव्यवस्था  .
In his first hundred days in  दफ्तर  , which began March 4  ,   1933  ,  रूज़वेल्ट  spearheaded  प्रमुख  legislation and  जारी  a  profusion   of  executive orders that instituted  the   नई   सौदे  —a  किस्में  of programs designed  to  produce relief (  सरकारी   कार्य  for the unemployed  )  , recovery ( economic  विकास   )  , and  सुधार   (  through  विनियमन   of   वॉल  Street ,  बैंको  and transportation  )   .
The  अर्थव्यवस्था  improved  rapidly   इससे   1933  to  1937  , but  तब  relapsed into a deep recession .
The bipartisan  रूढ़िवादी  Coalition  कि   formed  in  1937  prevented  उसके  packing the Supreme Court  or   गुजर  any  considerable  legislation ; it  abolished  many  of  the  राहत  programs  जब  unemployment  diminished   दौरान  World  युद्ध   ii  .
Most of  the  regulations on  कारोबार  were ended about  1975–85   ,  except for the regulation  of  Wall  गली   by   the   प्रतिभूति  and Exchange Commission , which still exists .
साथ   साथ   अनेक  smaller programs  ,   प्रमुख   surviving   कार्यक्रम   शामिल  the  संघीय  Deposit  बीमे   निगम   ,   जिससे   थी  created in 1933 ,  और  Social Security , which  कॉंग्रेस  passed in 1935  .
as  World  युद्ध  II loomed after 1938 ,  साथ  the Japanese  आक्रमण   of  China and  the  aggression of Nazi Germany , FDR  दिया  strong  राजनयिक  and financial support  to   चीन   और  Great Britain  ,   जबकि  remaining officially neutral .
His goal was to make  अमेरिका  the `` Arsenal  of   लोकतंत्र  ``  जिससे  would supply munitions to  the  Allies  .
In March 1941 ,  रूज़वेल्ट  , with Congressional approval ,  provided  Lend-Lease  सहायता  to the  देशों   लड़  against  नाजी  Germany with Britain  .
With  बहुत  strong national  support   ,   he   बना   युद्ध  on Japan and  जर्मनी  after the  जापानी   आक्रमण  on  पर्ल  Harbor on  दिसम्बर  7 ,  1941  , calling it a `` date  जिससे  will live  in   infamy   ``  .
he   पर्यवेक्षित  the mobilization  of   the  U.S. economy  to  support  the  Allied  युद्ध  effort .
As an  क्रियाशील  military leader  ,  Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts  कि  ended in  the  defeat of the  अक्ष  Powers and the development  of   the  world 's  पहला  atom bomb  .
In  1942   रूज़वेल्ट  ordered  the   internment   of  100,000 Japanese American civilians .
Unemployment dropped  to   2   %  ,  राहत  programs  largely  ended , and  the  industrial  अर्थव्यवस्था  grew  rapidly   to  new  हाइट्स   as  millions of  लोगों  moved to  नई   कार्य  in war  centers   ,   और   16  million men  और  300,000  महिलाओं   यहूद  drafted or  volunteered   लिये  military service  .
Roosevelt dominated  the  American  राजनैतिक   झाँकी   नहीं  only during the twelve  सालो   of  his  प्रेसिडेंसी  , but  भी  for  दशकों  afterward .
He  orchestrated  the  realignment  of  मतदाता  that  निर्मित   the  Fifth Party System .
fdr  's New  सौदे   गठबन्धन  united labor unions , big city  मशीने   ,  white  ethnics   ,   अफ़्रीकी   अमेरिकी   और   ग्रामीण   श्वेत  Southerners  .
He  भी  influenced the later creation of the United Nations and  bretton   वुड्स   .
रूज़वेल्ट  is  consistently   रेटेड   by  scholars  as  one of the top three U.S. Presidents , along with Abraham  lincoln   और   जार्ज  Washington .
A liberal  डेमोक्रेट   ,   रूज़वेल्ट  defined  उसके  ideological  स्थिति  as ``  a  little left of  बीच  . ''
a  Joint Committee is a term  in   राजनीती  that is used to refer to a  कमेटी   बना  up of members of  दोनो   कक्षों  of  a  bicameral  विधानमंडल   .
In other contexts ,  it   refers  to a committee  साथ   सदस्यों  from  अधिक   than   एक  organization .
the   विनियमन   of   वेश्यावृति   in   the   संयुक्त   राज्य   is  not among the enumerated powers of  the  federal  सरकारी  ; Under the Tenth  amendment  to the  संयुक्त   राज्य  Constitution  ,  it is  इसलिए  exclusively the domain of the states  to   परमिट  , prohibit , or  वरना   विनियमित  commercial  sex  ,  मगर   insofar  as Congress may regulate it  as   भाग  of  अंतरराज्यीय   कॉमर्स   साथ   कानून  like the Mann  अधिनियम   .
In  सबसे  states ,  वेश्यावृति   is   माना  a  misdemeanor  in the category of  पब्लिक   अनुक्रम  crime , a crime that disrupts the order  of   a  community .
it  was  at  one time  माना   to   be   a  vagrancy crime  .
Currently ,  नेवाडा  is  the  only state  to   allow  brothel  वेश्यावृति  ,  the   शर्तें  of  जिससे  are stipulated  in  the  नेवाडा  Revised  statutes  .
तभी   8  counties  फिलहाल  contain active brothels  .
All forms  of  prostitution  हैं   illegal  in  क्लार्क  County (  जिससे  contains the  लास  Vegas–Paradise metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल   )  , Washoe County  (  which  contains   रेनो  )  ,  Carson City ,  डगलस  County ,  और   lincoln   काउंटी   .
The other  काउंटी   theoretically  allow brothel prostitution  ,   लकिन   कुछ  of these counties  फिलहाल   have   no   क्रियाशील  brothels .
Street  वेश्यावृति   ,   ``   pandering  , ''  और   जीना   बंद   of  the  proceeds   of  a  वेश्या  remain  illegal   अंतर्गत  Nevada  विधि  ,  as  elsewhere in  the  country .
as  with other  देशों   ,  prostitution in the United States can be divided  into  three  व्यापक  categories  :  street prostitution  ,  brothel prostitution ,  और  escort  वेश्यावृति  .
the  national  ध्वज   of   the  United  राज्य   of  America , often simply referred to  as   the  American flag , consists  of  thirteen  बराबर  horizontal stripes  of   रेड  ( top  और   नीचे  ) alternating  साथ  white ,  साथ   a   ब्लू  rectangle  in   the  canton  (   referred  to specifically  as   the  ``  संघ   ''   )  bearing  पचास  small , white , five-pointed stars  arranged   in  nine  ऑफसेट   आड़ा  rows of  छह  stars (  शीर्ष  and bottom ) alternating  साथ   पंक्ति  of  पाँच  stars .
The 50 stars on  the   ध्वज  represent the 50 states  of  the United  राज्य  of  अमेरिका   और   the  13 stripes represent  the   तेरह  British  colonies   कि   घोषित  independence from the Kingdom of  ग्रेट   ब्रिटेन   और  became the  पहला  states  in   the  Union .
Nicknames for the  ध्वज  include the ``  सितारों  and Stripes ''  ,  ``  बूढ़ा  Glory  ``  , and `` The Star-Spangled Banner . ''
India is a  संघीय   संघ  of states comprising twenty-eight  राज्य   और   सात  union  territories  .
the  states and  territories  are further subdivided  into  districts  और   so   on  .
Congressional districts for  the  113th United States Congress
2010  जनसांख्यिकी  change:
Change in apportionment of  congressional   जिले  , starting  in  2013  ,   as  a  परिणाम   of  the  2010  census .
2000  जनसांख्यिकी  change:
Change  in   apportionment  of congressional districts  ,   इससे  2003 to 2013  ,  as  a  result  of   the   2000  census  .
इस   is   a   पूरा  list of congressional  जिले   लिये  representation  in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  House of  प्रतिनिधि  .
the  quantity ( apportionment  )  and boundaries ( redistricting  )  of  जिले  are determined  बाद   प्रत्येक  census , although in some cases  राज्य  have  बदला  the  सीमाएँ   अधिक  than once per census  .
This list includes the  435   वर्तमान   और   over  200 obsolete districts .
लिये   उदाहरण  , since the 2000  जनसांख्यिकी   ,  Nebraska has  था  three districts  ,  but  it  used  to   have   as  many as six .
in  the  पहला   दशक   of  the twenty-first century ,  टेक्सास  had 32 districts  ,  but has since added  चार   due  to reapportionment  as   a  result of  the   2010  census .
अन्य  states have lost  जिले  since  the   क्रमांक   of  congressional seats has been  नियत   at  435 by statute .
Also included  यहाँ   हैं   non-voting  delegations :  छह  current and four obsolete .
The  सीमाएँ  of districts often shift  साथ   प्रत्येक   redistricting  .
over   समय   ,  the region  और  demographics represented in  a  district can change  substantially   .
Furthermore  ,  districts sometimes  retain   the  same boundaries  जबकि   बदलना  their district numbers .
mariah   कैरी  (  born  March 27 ,  1970   )  is an American singer ,  songwriter  , record  निर्माता  ,  अभिनेत्री   ,  and  लोकसेवक   .
Under  the  guidance of Columbia Records executive  टॉमी  Mottola ,  कैरी  released  उसके  self-titled debut  स्टुडियो  album  mariah   कैरी  in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum  और  spawned four  लगातार  number  एक   singles  on the U.S  .  Billboard Hot  100  chart  .
Following her marriage to Mottola in  1993  and success with hit  रिकॉर्ड   भाव   (  1991 ) ,  म्यूज़िक   बक्सा  (  1993   )  , and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ) , Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act .
Daydream ( 1995 )  बना   म्यूज़िक  history when its  दूसरी  single ``  एक  Sweet  दिन   ``   ,  a  duet  with Boyz II Men  ,  spent a  रिकार्ड   सोलह  weeks on  शीर्ष  of  the  Billboard Hot 100 , and  remains  the  longest-running   number-one  song in U.S. chart history .
During the recording of the album , Carey began  to   deviate  from her R &  b   और   पॉप  beginnings and slowly traversed into  हिप  hop .
इस  musical  बदलें  became evident with  the   रिलीज  of Butterfly  (  1997  )   ,   at  which  समय  Carey had separated from Mottola .
कैरी  left Columbia in 2000 , and signed  a  record-breaking $ 100 million recording contract with Virgin Records  .
Before the release of her first feature film  glitter  ( 2001  )  , she  suffered  a  शारीरिक  and  emotional   विश्लेषण   और   थी  hospitalized for  कठोर   थकावट   .
Following the  फिल्मी  's  ग़रीब  reception  ,   वो   थी  bought out of her  रिकॉर्डिंग   अनुबंध  for  $  50 million  ,  which  led  to a decline in her career .
वो   हस्ताक्षरित   a  multi-million  डालर   अनुबंध  deal  साथ  Island Records in 2002 ,  और   बाद  an  unsuccessful   काल  ,  लौटे  to the top of  म्यूज़िक  charts with The Emancipation of  मिमी  ( 2005  )  .
Its second single `` We Belong  साथ   ``   became   उसके  most  कामयाब  single of  the  2000s , and  थी   बाद  named `` Song of the  दशक  ''  by   बिलबोर्ड  .
Carey  एकबार   again  ventured  into   फिल्मी   साथ  a well-received starring  भूमिका  in ( 2009  )  ; she was awarded  the  `` Breakthrough Performance Award '' at  the  Palm Springs  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Film  पर्व   ,  and Black  रील  and NAACP  चित्र   पुरस्कार  nominations  .
in  a career  spanning   over  two decades  ,  Carey  रै   बेची   अधिक  than  200  million  रिकॉर्ड  worldwide ,  बनाना  her one  of  the best-selling  म्यूज़िक  artists of all time .
In 1998  ,  she  थी  honored  as  the world  's  best-selling recording  कलाकार  of the 1990s at the World Music Awards .
कैरी  was  भी  named  the  best-selling  मादा   कलाकार   of  the  मिलेनियम  in 2000  .
According to  the  Recording  उद्योग  Association  of   अमेरिका  ,  वो  is  the  third best-selling female artist in  the  United States ,  साथ  63.5  लाख  certified albums  .
साथ   the  release of  ``  Touch My Body  ``  ( 2008  )  , Carey  gained  her eighteenth  क्रमांक  one  सिंगल   in   the   संयुक्त  States  ,  more than any  अन्य  solo artist .
In 2012  ,  Carey  थी  ranked second on VH1  's   सूची  of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music '' .
Aside from  उसके  commercial  accomplishments  , Carey has  जीती   पाँच   ग्रैमी   पुरस्कार   ,  17 World  म्यूज़िक  Awards  ,  11  अमरीकी   म्यूज़िक  Awards  ,   और  31  बिलबोर्ड  Music Awards .
referred   to  as the ``  songbird   परम्   ''   by  the  गिनीज  World Records  ,   वो  is famed for her five-octave vocal range ,  शक्ति   ,   melismatic   स्टाइल   और  signature use  of  the whistle  पंजीकरण   .
stratocumulus   stratiformis   cumulogenitus
in  meteorology , a cloud is a  दृश्य  mass of  द्रव   droplets  or frozen  crystals   बना  of water or various chemicals  निलंबित  in  the   माहौल   ऊपर  the surface of a planetary  देह  .
ये  suspended particles are also known as aerosols .
Clouds in  धरती  's atmosphere are studied in the cloud  भौतिकी   शाखा  of meteorology .
दो  processes  ,  possibly  एक्टिंग  together ,  can  lead  to   एयर   बनने  saturated ;  कूलिंग  the air  or   adding   जल  vapor to the air .
In general  ,   वर्षण  will fall  to   the   सतह   ;   an   एक्सेप्शन  is  virga   ,  which evaporates  पहले  reaching  the   सतह   .
The international  बादल  classification system  is   आधारित   on  the fact clouds in their most basic forms  can  show  free-convective  upward  विकास   जैसे  cumulus  ,   appear   in  non-convective layered  चादरें   ऐसे   as   स्ट्रेट्स  ,  or  take the form of thin  तंतुमय   wisps  ,  as  in the case  of  cirrus  .
prefixes   हैं  used  in  connection with clouds  to  express variations or complexities in these basic  फ़ॉर्म   or  to specify middle  or  high  ऊँचाई  ranges .
These include strato-  लिये   कम   बादल  with limited  संवहन  that form  ज़्यादातर  in uneven layers ,  cumulo-  for complex highly-convective storm  बादल  , nimbo- for thick  परतदार   बादल   of  some  जटिलता   कि   can  produce moderate to  भारी  precipitation , alto- for  मध्य  clouds  ,  and cirro-  लिये  high clouds ;  the  latter two of which may  be   of   सरल   or  moderately complex structure  .
Whether  or  not a  बादल  is  कम   ,  middle , or high  स्तर   depends   on  how far above the  मैदान   इसके   आधार  forms .
Cloud types with significant vertical  extent   can  form in  the  low or middle  ऊँचाई  ranges depending on the moisture  सामग्री  of  the  air .
Clouds  in  the troposphere have  लैटिन  names  due   to   the   लोकप्रिय  adaptation  of   ल्यूक  Howard 's cloud categorization system , which began  to  spread  in  popularity during December  1802  .
synoptic   सतह   मौसम  observations use code numbers to  रिकार्ड  and  रपट  the types of  tropospheric   बादल  visible  at  each scheduled observation time based on the  ऊँचाई   और   शारीरिक  appearance of  the  clouds .
While  a  majority of clouds form in  धरती   's  troposphere , there are  अवसरों  when clouds in  the   stratosphere  and  mesosphere  can  be   observed   .
These  तीन  main layers  of  the atmosphere where  बादल  may  be  seen are collectively known  as  the homosphere .
ऊपर  this lies  the  thermosphere  और  exosphere  ,  which together make  up   the   heterosphere  that  marks  the  परिवर्तन  to  बाहरी  space .
बादल   have  been observed on other  ग्रह   और   moons   भीतर  the Solar System ,  लकिन   ,   due   to   उनके  different temperature characteristics , they are  रचित  of other substances  ऐसे   as  methane  ,  ammonia , and  sulfuric  acid .
Galveston County is a county located  in   the  U.S. state  of   टेक्सास  within the  houston–sugar  Land–Baytown metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  .
as  of the 2010 census ,  the   जनसांख्यिकी  was 291,309 .
Its county seat is Galveston  .
League City is  the  largest city in  galveston   काउंटी  in terms  of  population  ;   url_http   between  2000  और  2005 it surpassed  galveston  as  the  county 's  largest  city .
galveston  County was  संस्थापित   in   1838  .
Nassau
Freeport ,  बहामा
This  is  a list  of   शहरों  in the Bahamas  .
The  following  table  सूचियाँ   the   नगर  or town name , the  भौगोलिक   निर्देशांक  ,  the  population as of the 1990  जनसांख्यिकी  ,  an  estimate  of   the   जनसांख्यिकी  as  of  2009  ,   और  the  द्वीप  name  .
The Big Ten  सम्मेलन   ,  formerly Western Conference and  बिग  Nine Conference  ,   is   the  oldest  प्रभाग  I college  एथलेटिक   सम्मेलन   in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   .
इसके   बारह  member institutions  (  which  हैं  primarily  फ्लैगशिप   शोध   विश्वविद्यालयों  in their respective  राज्य   ,   well-regarded  academically  ,   और  with  अपेक्षाकृत  large student enrollment ) are located primarily  in   the   मिडवेस्ट  , stretching from  नेब्रास्का  in the  वेस्ट  to Penn  राज्य   in   the  east .
the  conference  competes  in the NCAA 's Division I ; its football teams compete  in  the  फ़ुटबॉल  Bowl  subdivision  (  fbs   )   ,   formerly  known  as  Division I-A  ,  the highest  स्तर   of   ncaa  competition in  कि   खेल   .
Member schools of  the   बिग  Ten (  or  , in two cases , their parent university  प्रणालियों  ) also are members of the  कमेटी  on Institutional Cooperation , a leading educational and  शोध  consortium  .
despite  the conference  's   नाम   ,   the  Big  टेन   दरअसल  consists of 12 schools , following  the  addition  of  The Pennsylvania State University  in  1993  और   the   विश्वविद्यालयों  of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011 .
in  2014 ,  the   सम्मेलन  will expand to  14  members  साथ   the  additions  of  the University  of  Maryland  ,   कॉलेज   पार्क  and Rutgers  ,  The  राज्य   विश्वविद्यालयों   of  New Jersey  .
it   is  not to be confused with the Big 12 Conference  ,   जिससे  has only  टेन   स्कूलों  and represents  a   अलग  region of the  देश  .
Single Malt  स्कॉच   is   सिंगल  malt whisky made  in   स्कॉटलैंड  using a  घट   स्टिल  distillation process at a single distillery , with  malted  barley  as  the  तभी  grain  संघटक  .
As  साथ  any Scotch  व्हिस्की  , a  सिंगल  malt Scotch must be distilled  in   स्कॉटलैंड  and  matured  in  ओक   casks  in  स्कॉटलैंड  for  at  least three years  (  most single  malts  are  matured  longer )  .
``  malt  ''  indicates   कि  the whisky is distilled from  a   ``  malted '' grain .
Several  प्रकार   of  grains can be malted  (   लिये  example , barley , rye  और  wheat are  सब   दाने  which  can   be  malted  )   ;  however ,  in  the case of  सिंगल  malt Scotch  ,  barley is  सदा  the only  अनाज  used  .
``  Single  ''   indicates  that all  the  malts  in  the  बोतल  come from  a  single distillery .
Bottlings containing malt whisky from  अनेक   distilleries   हैं   पुकारा  ``  blended  malt `` .
जबतक  the  स्कॉच   व्हिस्की   regulations  2009 ( SWR  2009  )  ,  the word `` blended  ''   तभी  appeared (  in   the   कॉन्टेक्स्ट  of Scotch  व्हिस्की   )   on   बोतलों   of   व्हिस्की  that  contained  a  मिश्रण  of  दोनो   जौ   और  non-barley  अनाज   व्हिस्की   ,  but this is no longer  the  case  .
Under  the   शब्दावली   स्थापित  by the SWR 2009 , a ``  blended  malt Scotch whisky '' is  a   मिश्रण  of  सिंगल  malt  स्कॉच   whiskies   ,   नहीं  a mixture of  malted   जौ   व्हिस्की  and non-barley whisky  ;  those are  पुकारा  ``  blended  Scotch whisky  ''  , without  the  word ``  malt  '' .
the  term  ``   blended  malt '' replaced  ``   vatted   malt  '' used under the  prior  labelling conventions .
the  age  बयान   on  a  बोतल  of  सिंगल  malt  स्कॉच  is the number  of   सालो  the whisky spent  maturing  in  cask   .
As  बहुत  few whiskies  हैं  bottled  इससे   a   सिंगल  cask  the  age statement  reflects  the age  of  the youngest  malt   in  the mix .
a  texture may be  arranged  so as to  ,  `` closely  दृष्टिकोण   the  single-object  औकात  of  fused-ensemble  timbres , for example  ,  the beautiful 'northern  लाइट्स   '   कॉर्ड   ...  ,  in   a  very  दिलचस्प  distribution  of  pitches  ,  produces a fused sound supported  by  a  निलंबित   झांझ   फेंकें   ``  (  एरिक्सन   (  1975  )  , p.166 &  168   )   .
In contrast to more  परंपरागत  musical textures , sound  द्रव्यमान  composition `` minimizes  the  importance  of  individual pitches in preference for texture  ,   timbre   ,  and  डायनामिक्स  as  प्राथमिक  shapers of  भाव   और   प्रभाव   .   ''
विकसित  from  the  modernist  टोन   क्लस्टर  and  स्प्रेड   to  orchestral  लिखने  by  the  late 1950s  और  1960s , sound-mass `` obscures  the  boundary between sound and noise  ``  (  एडवर्ड्स   2001  , pp . 326–27 ) .
Techniques  जिससे  may create or be used with  ध्वनि  mass  शामिल   विस्तारित  techniques such  as  muted brass or strings , flutter  tonguing  , wide  vibrato  , extreme ranges , and  glissandos   .
composers   और  works include Barbara Kolb ,  pauline  Oliveros  '   ध्वनि  Patterns for  कोरस  (  1961  ) , Norma  beecroft  's  इससे  Dreams  of   पीतल   लिये  chorus  (  1963–1964  )  ,  और  Nancy Van  de  Vate .
Beecroft  ``   टुकड़ा   व्यक्तिगत  pitches in  एहसान   of   a   सामूहिक  timbre  through  the use of vocal  और  instrumental clusters ,  choral   वाक   ,  narrator , and a  धो  of sounds from an  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  tape  .  ''
( ibid  )
A  बहुत  early example is  the   खोलने  of  jean-féry  Rebel 's  बैले   लेस  Elémens  (   1737–38   )  ,  जहाँ  chaos is  represented  by  a  gradually cumulating orchestral  क्लस्टर  of all seven  टीप  of the D minor scale (  henck  2004 ,  pp   .  52–54  )   .
A  बाद   उदाहरण  is the  तीसरा  movement of  रुथ   क्रॉफर्ड   seeger  's String  quartet  1931 ( Nonesuch H-71280 ) while more recently  phill   niblock  's  अनेक  drone based music  serves   as   an   उदाहरण   .
The  उपयोग  of ``  मदारी  approaching timbres ''  begins   साथ   debussy   और   edgard  Varèse often carefully  scored   व्यक्तिगत   इंस्ट्रूमेंटल   भाग  so that  वे  would fuse into  एक   ensemble   timbre  or  ध्वनि   द्रव्यमान  (  एरिक्सन   1975  , pp . 18 and 21 ) .
Other examples  शामिल  European ``  textural  '' compositions of  the  fifties and  sixties   ऐसे   as   krzysztof  Penderecki 's Threnody  to   the  Victims  of  Hiroshima ( 1959 ) and  györgy  Ligeti 's works  featuring   micropolyphony  in works  जैसे  Atmosphères ( 1961  )  and  उसके   requiem  (  1963-65  )  .
अन्य  composers with works  using   इस   तकनीक   शामिल  Henryk Górecki  ,  Karel Husa ,  witold   lutosławski  ,  kazimierz  Serocki  ,  and  स्टीवन   stucky   .
Sound mass techniques  भी   appear  in the music  of  George  crumb  (  anon   .   n.d.  )  .
विद्यार्थी   उपस्थित  a lecture  on  linear algebra at the Helsinki University of Technology
Pupils  in  rural Sudan , 2002
a  student  is  a learner ,  or   किसी   जो   attends  an educational institution  .
In  कुछ  nations ,  the  English  पद  (  or  its cognate in another  भाषा   )  is reserved  लिये  those  जो  attend university , while  a  schoolchild  अंतर्गत  the age  of  eighteen  is   पुकारा  a pupil in English ( or an equivalent  in  other languages  )   ,   हालांकि  in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  a person enrolled in  ग्रेड   k–12   is   प्रायः  called  a  student .
in  its widest use , student  is  used  लिये   anyone   जो  is  सीखना  .
Australia  is  a  महाद्वीप   comprising  mainland Australia  ,  Tasmania , New  गिनी  ,  seram  ,  संभवतः   timor   ,   और   neighbouring  islands  .
The  महाद्वीप  is sometimes known in  तकनीकी  contexts by the  names  Sahul  ,   australinea  or Meganesia  ,   to   फर्क  it  इससे  the  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  mainland .
it   is   the  smallest of the seven  परंपरागत   महाद्वीपों  in the English  धारणा  .
नई  Zealand is not  भाग  of  the  continent of Australia  ,  but  of  the  पृथक   ,   submerged   महाद्वीप  of  zealandia   .
Zealandia and  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  are  दोनो  part of  the  wider  regions   ज्ञात   as  Australasia and  महासागरीय  .
The  महाद्वीप  of  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  lies on a continental shelf overlain  by   उथले  seas  जिससे  divide  it  into several  landmasses  —  the  Arafura  समुद्र  and  टोरेस  Strait between  मेनलैंड  Australia  और  New  गिनी  , and Bass  जलसन्धि  between  मेनलैंड  Australia and Tasmania  .
When sea  स्तर  were lower during  the  Pleistocene  बर्फ   आयु  ,  सहित   the  last  glacial  maximum  परिचय  18,000 BC  ,  they  यहूद  connected by  शुष्क   जमीन   .
During the past  टेन   हजार  years ,  उठती   समुद्र   स्तर  overflowed the lowlands and  अलग  the continent into  आज  's  low-lying   arid   to  semi-arid mainland  और   the  two mountainous islands  of   नई  Guinea and Tasmania  .
Geologically ,  a  continent  extends  to  the  edge of its  महाद्वीपीय  shelf , so the  now-separate   आइलैंड्स   हैं  considered  भाग  of the continent  .
Due to the spread of animals , fungi  और   पौधे   आरपार   the  single  pleistocene  landmass  the  separate lands have  a  related biota  .
सेंट्रल   पार्क  is  nearly   twice   as  big as the world 's  second-smallest   देश   ,  Monaco .
historically   इसके  reservoirs were  महत्वपूर्ण   components  of the  नगर  's water  सप्लाई   .
Environmental issues in  नई   यॉर्क  City are affected by  the   नगर  's size , density ,  abundant  public transportation infrastructure ,  और  location  at   the   मुँह   of   the   हडसन  River .
New  यॉर्क  's population density  रै  environmental pros and cons .
It  facilitates  the highest  द्रव्यमान   पारगमन   उपयोग  in  the  United  राज्य   ,  but  भी  concentrates  प्रदूषण   .
गैसोलीन   खपत  in the city is  at  the  रेट  the national  औसत   थी   in  the 1920s , and  ग्रीनहाउस  gas emissions  हैं   a   भिन्न   of  the  नेशनल  average , at  7.1  metric  टन   प्रति  person per year ,  नीचे   सैन   फ्रांसिस्को  , at  11.2  metric tons  ,   और   the   नेशनल  average , at 24.5 metric tons .
नई  York City  खाते  for  तभी  1 % of United States  ग्रीनहाउस   गैस  emissions while housing 2.7  %  of its population  .
in  September  2012   ,  New York was named the # 1  ``   अमेरिका  's Dirtiest  नगर  , '' by  a  Travel+Leisure  readership   सर्वेक्षण  that rated  the   पर्यावरणीय   विशेषता  of 35 prominent cities  in   the   संयुक्त  States .
Atlanta  (  ,  stressed   ,   locally   )  is  the   पूंजी   of   और   the  most populous  नगर   in  the U.S. state of Georgia  ,  with  an   अनुमानित   2011  population  of  432,427  .
Atlanta  is  the cultural  और   आर्थिक   बीच  of  the  Atlanta  महानगर  area , home to 5,457,831 people and  the  ninth largest metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  in the United States .
Atlanta is the county seat of Fulton County , and a small portion  of  the  नगर   extends  eastward  into  DeKalb County  .
अटलांटा   थी   स्थापित  in 1837 at the intersection of two railroad  लाइनों  ,  और  the city  रोज़  from  the  ashes  of  the Civil War to  become  a national center of  कॉमर्स   .
In the  दशकों   following   the  Civil Rights Movement ,  दौरान   जिससे   the  city  अर्जित  a reputation as  ``   too   व्यस्त  to  नफ़रत  ''  लिये   the  progressive views  of   इसके  citizens and leaders , Atlanta  attained   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  prominence  .
Atlanta  is  the primary transportation hub of the  southeastern  United States  ,   via   राजमार्ग  , railroad ,  और  air , with  hartsfield–jackson  Atlanta  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   विमानक्षेत्र   होने   the  world  's   व्यस्ततम  airport  चूंकि  1998 .
Atlanta is considered  an  ``  अल्फा   (  - ) world city  ,  '' and ,  साथ  a  सकल   घरेलू   उत्पाद  of US $ 270 billion  ,   atlanta’s  economy ranks 15th among world cities and  छठे  in  the  nation  .
हालांकि   atlanta’s  economy is considered  विविध  , dominant  सेक्टर   शामिल  logistics , professional  और   कारोबार   सेवाएं  , media  परिचालन   ,  government  प्रशासन  ,  और  higher education .
Topographically ,  अटलांटा  is marked by  रोलिंग   पहाड़ियाँ  and  घना  tree coverage .
Revitalization  of   अटलांटा  's neighborhoods , initially  spurred   by   the   1996   ओलंपिक  ,  रै   intensified   in   the  21st  सदी   ,  altering the  नगर  's  जनसांख्यिकी   ,   राजनीती  ,  और   संस्कृति  .
a   1947   प्रचार   कॉमिक   किताब  published by  the   catechetical   गिल्ड   शैक्षणिक   समाज  raising  the  specter  of  a Communist takeover
mccarthyism  is  the   अभ्यास   of  making accusations of disloyalty  ,  subversion , or treason  बगैर  proper  लिहाज़  for evidence .
it  also  अर्थात्   ``  the practice of  बनाना  unfair  दोषारोपण  or  using   अन्यायपूर्ण  investigative  तकनीकों  , especially  in  order to restrict  dissent  or political criticism . ''
the   पद  has its origins in  the  period  in  the  संयुक्त  States known as the  दूसरी  Red  scare  , lasting roughly from 1950  to   1956   और   characterized  by  heightened  fears of communist  influence  on American  संस्थानों   और  espionage  by   सोवियत  agents .
originally  coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits  of  Republican  u.s  . Senator Joseph  मैकार्थी   of   विस्कॉन्सिन   ,   ``   mccarthyism   ''  soon  took  on  a   broader   अर्थ  ,  describing   the   excesses   of  similar  प्रयत्न  .
The term  is  also  अभी  used  अधिक   generally   to  describe reckless , unsubstantiated accusations  ,  as well as  demagogic   हमले   on   the  character or  राष्ट्रभक्ति   of  political adversaries  .
During the McCarthy  era  ,  हज़ारों  of Americans were  अभियुक्त  of being Communists or communist sympathizers  और   became  the subject of aggressive  investigations  and  questioning   पहले   सरकारी  or  private-industry  panels ,  समितियों   और   एजेंसियों   .
the  primary targets  of   ऐसे  suspicions were government employees  ,   those  in  the  entertainment  उद्योग  , educators  और  union activists .
suspicions   यहूद   प्रायः  given  credence   despite  inconclusive or questionable  प्रमाण   ,  and the level of  threat   posed   by   a  person 's real or  supposed   वामपंथी  associations or  मान्यताओं  was often greatly exaggerated  .
Many  लोगों  suffered loss  of   नियुक्ति   and/or  destruction  of  their  करियर  ; some even suffered imprisonment  .
Most of these punishments  आए  about  through   विचारण  verdicts later overturned  ,   कानून  that would be declared unconstitutional  ,   dismissals  for reasons later declared  illegal  or actionable  ,  or extra-legal  प्रक्रियाओं  that would come into  सामान्य  disrepute  .
The most  प्रसिद्ध  examples of McCarthyism include the  भाषणों  , investigations  ,  and hearings of  सीनेटर   मैकार्थी  himself  ;  the Hollywood blacklist ,  संबद्ध  with  hearings   conducted   by   the   हाउस   un-american  Activities  कमेटी   (   huac  ) ; and the  विभिन्न  anti-communist  क्रियाएँ  of the Federal  ब्यूरो   of  Investigation ( FBI ) under  निदेशक   J.   एडगर  Hoover  .
McCarthyism was a widespread social and cultural  घटना   कि  affected all  स्तर   of   समाज  and  थी  the source of a great deal of debate and conflict  in   the   संयुक्त  States  .
Napoleon  is  a fictional character and the main  विपक्षी   in  George  ऑरवेल  's  एनिमल   फार्म  .
While he is  at  first a common farm pig ,  he  gets  rid  of  स्नोबॉल   ,  another  सुअर  which  साझा  the power .
he  then takes advantage of the  पशु  '  uprising  against their masters to eventually  become   the  tyrannical ``  अध्यक्ष  of Animal Farm  ,   ''  which he turns into  a   तानाशाही  .
वरुण   लोगो
the   वरुण  Canada  प्रोजेक्ट   is   the  world’s  पहला  regional-scale  भाटे   समंदर  observatory  कि  plugs directly into the  अंतरजाल  .
चूंकि  December  2009  , it has allowed people  to  `` surf  ''  the seafloor while ocean scientists  चलाएं   deep-water  experiments from  लैब्स  and universities around the world .
साथ  with its sister  प्रोजेक्ट   ,  VENUS ,  वरुण   offers  a  अद्वितीय  approach  to   समंदर  science  .
Traditionally  ,   समंदर   वैज्ञानिकों   have   relied  on infrequent ship cruises or space-based  satellites  to carry out their research , while the NEPTUNE project uses a  remotely  operated crawler .
The  coronet   थी  a  full-size   car   इससे  Dodge in the  1950s   ,   initially   the   प्रभाग   's   उच्चतम   trim   लकीर  but , starting in 1955  ,  the lowest trim line  .
In the  1960s  ,  the   नाम  was transferred to Dodge  's  mid-size entry  .
ARM9 is an ARM architecture  32-bit  RISC  cpu   परिवार  .
राष्ट्रमंडल   is  a traditional  अंग्रेज़ी  term for a political community  संस्थापित  for the common  शुभ  .
Historically ,  it   रै  sometimes been synonymous with ``  गणतंत्र  ``  .
More  recently  it has been used for fraternal associations  of  some  sovereign  nations  .
सबसे  notably , the  राष्ट्रमंडल   of  Nations , an association  primarily  of  पूर्व   सदस्यों   of  the  अंग्रेजों  Empire  ,  is  प्रायः  referred  to  as simply `` the  राष्ट्रमंडल   ''  .
The September  11  attacks  (  also  referred   to  as  सितंबर  11 , September 11th ,  or   9/11  ) were a series  of  four  समन्वित  terrorist attacks launched by the Islamic  आतंकवादी   समूह   al-qaeda  upon the United States  in  New  यॉर्क   नगर  and  the  Washington  ,   d.C.   क्षेत्रफल  on  सितंबर  11  ,  2001 .
चार  passenger  airliners   यहूद   hijacked   by   19  al-Qaeda terrorists  so   वे   could  be  flown   into   इमारतें  in  आत्महत्या  attacks  .
Two of those planes ,  अमरीकी  Airlines Flight 11  और   संयुक्त   एयरलाइंस   उड़ान  175 , were  क्रैश  into the North and  दक्षिण   मीनारें  , respectively  ,  of the World Trade Center  जटिल  in New York  नगर  .
Within  दो   घंटों  , both towers collapsed with debris  और  the  resulting   फ़ायर  causing partial  or  complete collapse of  सब   अन्य  buildings  in  the WTC  जटिल   ,  as well as major damage to ten  अन्य  large surrounding structures  .
a  third  प्लेन   ,   अमरीकी   एयरलाइंस   उड़ान  77  ,  was  क्रैश   into   the  Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United States  विभाग  of Defense  )  , leading  to  a partial collapse in  इसके  western side .
The fourth plane , United Airlines  उड़ान   93   ,  was targeted  at   the  United States  कैपिटल   in  Washington , D.C.  ,   लकिन   क्रैश  into  a  field  निकट  Shanksville , Pennsylvania  ,  after  इसके   यात्री  tried  to   overcome   the   hijackers  .
In total  ,  almost 3,000 people died in the attacks ,  सहित  the  227  civilians  और  19 hijackers aboard  the   चार  planes .
suspicion  quickly fell on al-Qaeda .
Although the group 's leader , Osama bin  लादेन   ,  initially denied any involvement , in 2004 he  claimed  responsibility for  the   हमले   .
Al-Qaeda and bin  लादेन  cited  u.S.  support of  इसराईल  , the  उपस्थिति   of  U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia  ,  and sanctions against  इराकी  as  motives  for the attacks .
The United States  responded   to   the   हमले  by launching  the  War on Terror  और   आक्रमणकारी   अफगानिस्तान  to  depose  the Taliban , which had harbored  al-qaeda  .
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism  विधान   और  expanded  विधि  enforcement powers  .
having   evaded   कैप्चर  for years , bin Laden was located and  मारे   by  U.S.  शक्तियां  in  may   2011  .
the   विनाश  of the  जुड़वा  Towers and other  गुण  caused  गंभीर   क्षति  to  the  economy  of  Lower Manhattan and had  a   significant   प्रभाव   on  global markets .
क्लीनअप  of  the  World  व्यापार   बीच   साईट  was  समाप्त  in  may  2002  ,   और  the Pentagon  थी  repaired within a year  .
numerous   memorials  have  महरूम  constructed , including the  नेशनल   सितंबर   11  Memorial  &   संग्रहालय   in  New York , the  प्रस्तुतीकरण  Memorial , and  the   उड़ान  93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania  .
After a lengthy delay , the One World  व्यापार  Center  is  expected to be completed at Ground Zero in  नई  York  नगर  in  2013  .
crater  Lake National  पार्क  is  a  United States National  पार्क  located  in  southern Oregon  .
स्थापित   in  1902  ,   crater  Lake National Park is the fifth oldest  नेशनल   पार्क   in  the United  राज्य  and  the  only  एक   in   the   राज्य   of  Oregon .
the  park encompasses the  caldera  of Crater Lake , a  remnant   of  a destroyed  ज्वालामुखी   ,   माउंट  Mazama , and the surrounding hills and  वनों   .
The lake is  गहन   at   इसके  deepest point ,  जिससे  makes  it  the deepest lake in the United  राज्य   ,   the   दूसरी  deepest in North  अमेरिका  and  the   नवीं   deepest   in   the  world .
crater  Lake  is  often referred  to  as  the  seventh deepest lake in the world ,  लकिन  this  पूर्व  listing excludes  the  approximately  गहराई   of   subglacial  Lake  वोस्तोक  in Antarctica , which  resides   अंतर्गत   nearly  of  बर्फ   ,  and the  हाल  report of a  अधिकतम   गहराई   लिये  Lake  o'higgins  /San Martin , located on the border of Chile  और   अर्जेंटीना   .
However , when  comparing  its average  गहराई  of  to   the   औसत   गहराई   of  other deep lakes , Crater Lake  becomes   the   deepest   in  the  पश्चिमी  Hemisphere  और   the  third deepest in the  संसार  .
The impressive average depth of this  volcanic  lake is due to  the   nearly   सममित   गहन  caldera  formed  7,700 years  पहले   दौरान  the violent  climactic  eruptions and subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama and  the  relatively moist climate  कि   is   ठेठ  of the crest of the  cascade   दायरा   .
The caldera rim ranges  in   उन्नयन   इससे   .
The United States Geological Survey benchmarked elevation  of   the   झील   सतह  itself is .
This National Park encompasses .
Crater Lake has no  स्ट्रीम   बहती   into   or   आउट   of  it .
All water  कि  enters  the  lake is eventually  खोया   इससे  evaporation or subsurface seepage  .
the   झील  's water  commonly  has a striking blue hue  ,  and the  झील  is re-filled entirely  इससे   सीधा  precipitation  in   the  form of snow and rain .
The  परम्  Court  of  the United States is the highest court  in   the   संयुक्त  States  .
it   रै  ultimate ( and largely  विवेकाधीन   )  appellate jurisdiction  over  all  संघीय   न्यायालयों  and  over  state court  मामले  involving  मुद्दे   of  federal  विधि  ,  और  original  क्षेत्राधिकार   over  a small  दायरा  of  मामले  .
The Court ,  जिससे  meets  in   the   संयुक्त  States Supreme Court Building  in  Washington ,  d.C.   ,  consists of a chief  इंसाफ   और   आठ   संबद्ध  justices  जो  are nominated  by  the President and confirmed by  the  United States  सीनेट   .
एकबार  appointed  ,  justices have  जीवन  tenure  जबतक   वे  resign  ,  retire ,  or  are removed after  महाभियोग  .
Conroe is the seat of Montgomery County  और  falls within  the  metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल   .
It is located  परिचय  north of Houston .
as  of July 2011 , the city  जनसांख्यिकी  was 58,973  ,  up from 36,811 in 2000  .
the  Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter Day Saint movement , which  adherents   मानना   contains  writings of ancient prophets who  जिया   on  the American continent from approximately  2200  BC  to  AD 421 .
it  was  पहला  published  in   कूच  1830 by Joseph Smith as  the  Book  of  Mormon  :  An Account  लिखा  by the Hand of Mormon upon Plates Taken from the Plates of Nephi  .
according   to   स्मिथ   's   खाता   ,  and also according to  the   किताब   's  narrative ,  the  Book of  mormon   थी  originally  लिखा  in  वरना  unknown  वर्ण  referred to as `` reformed Egyptian `` engraved  on  golden  प्लेटों  .
स्मिथ  claimed  कि  the last prophet to  योगदान   to   the  book , a man named  moroni  , buried it  in  a hill  in   present-day  New York  और   तब  returned to  धरती  in 1827 as  an   देवदूत  , revealing  the   स्थान  of the  किताब   to   स्मिथ  and instructing him to translate  और   disseminate  it as  प्रमाण  of the  बहाली  of Christ 's  सच्चा   गिरिजाघर  in the  latter   दिनों  .
The  किताब  of  mormon   रै  a number of  असली   और   distinctive   doctrinal  discussions on  विषय   ऐसे  as the  पतन   of  Adam  और  Eve , the nature  of   the   प्रायश्चित   ,  eschatology ,  मोचन  from physical and  आध्यात्मिक   मौत   ,  and  the   संगठन   of  the  latter-day  church .
the   pivotal   इवेंट  of  the   किताब  is an appearance of Jesus  मसीह   to   the   americas  shortly  बाद  his resurrection .
the   किताब  of Mormon is the earliest of the  अद्वितीय   कृतियाँ  of the  latter  Day  संत  movement , the denominations of which  typically   लिहाज़   the  text  नहीं   तभी   as   scripture  but also as a historical  रिकार्ड  of God 's  dealings  with  the  ancient inhabitants  of  the  americas  .
The Book of Mormon  is   विभाजित  into smaller  किताबे  ,  titled  after  the  individuals  नामित  as primary authors and , in most  संस्करण   ,  divided  into   अध्याय  and verses .
it   is   लिखा   in  English  ,   बहुत   समान  to the Early Modern  अंग्रेज़ी   भाषाई   स्टाइल   of   the  King  जेम्स  Version of the  बाइबल   ,   और  has since been  fully   or   partially  translated into  108  languages .
an  enlisted rank  (   भी  known as  an   आयोजिक  grade or enlisted  रेट   )  is , in  सबसे  militaries  ,  any rank below that  of  a  commissioned   अधिकारी  or  वारंट  officer .
The  पद  can also be inclusive  of  non-commissioned officers .
In  सबसे  cases , enlisted service personnel  perform   कार्य   विशिष्ट   to   उनके  own  occupational  specialty , as opposed  to   the   अधिक  generalized  कमांड  responsibilities of  commissioned  officers  .
``  What  a  Wonderful  संसार   ''   is  a  सोंग  written by  bob   thiele   (   as   ``   जार्ज  Douglas ''  )   और  George David Weiss .
It was  पहला   अंकित   by  Louis  आर्मस्ट्रांग  and  released  as a single in  1967  .
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent  in  the music  संसार   (  Thiele as a  निर्माता   और  Weiss as a  composer/performer  )  .
Armstrong  's   रिकॉर्डिंग  was  inducted  in the  ग्रैमी  Hall of  कीर्ति  in 1999  .
the  publishing  लिये   इस  song is  नियंत्रित   by  Memory Lane Music Group  ,  Carlin Music Corp. , and  कीड़ा   म्यूज़िक  ,  inc   .
1908 poster advertising Gaumont  's  sound films .
the   chronomégaphone  , designed for  विशाल  halls  ,  employed  संपीडित  air to amplify  the   अंकित  sound .
A sound  फिल्मी   is  a  गति   चित्र   साथ   synchronized  sound  ,  or  ध्वनि   technologically  coupled  to   चित्र   ,   as   opposed   to   a   मूक  film .
The first known public  प्रदर्शनी  of projected  ध्वनि  films  took  place  in  Paris  in  1900 , but  दशकों   होता  pass  पहले   ध्वनि   गति   तस्वीरें   यहूद   बना   commercially  practical .
विश्वसनीय  synchronization was difficult to  achieve   साथ  the early sound-on-disc systems  ,   और   प्रवर्धन   और  recording  विशेषता  were  भी   अपर्याप्त   .
नवप्रवर्तनों  in sound-on-film  led   to   the  first  वाणिज्यिक  screening of short motion pictures  using   the   प्रौद्योगिकी  , which took place  in   1923  .
The  प्राथमिक  steps in the  व्यावसायीकरण  of sound cinema  यहूद   लिया  in the  mid-  to late 1920s .
at   पहला  ,  the   ध्वनि   films  incorporating  synchronized  dialogue—known as  ``   talking  pictures  ''   ,  or  ``  talkies '' —were exclusively  शॉर्ट्स   ;  the earliest feature-length movies with  अंकित  sound  शामिल  only music and effects  .
The  पहला  feature film  originally  presented  as   a   talkie  was  the   जैज़  Singer ,  released   in  October  1927  .
A major hit ,  it   थी   बना  with  vitaphone  , the leading brand of sound-on-disc technology .
sound-on-film  , however  ,   होता   जल्द  become the standard for talking pictures .
By the  जल्दी  1930s  ,   the  talkies were a global phenomenon  .
in  the United  राज्य  , they helped secure Hollywood  's  position as  एक  of  the   संसार  's most powerful  cultural/commercial   प्रणालियों   (   देखिए   सिनेमा  of  the   संयुक्त  States  )   .
in   यूरोपीय   (  and , to a lesser  उपाधि  , elsewhere  )   the  new development was  treated  with suspicion by  अनेक   filmmakers   और   आलोचकों   ,  who worried  कि  a focus  on  dialogue  होता  subvert the unique  aesthetic  virtues of  soundless  cinema .
In Japan , where the  लोकप्रिय   फिल्मी  tradition integrated silent  फिल्म  and live vocal  प्रदर्शन  , talking  तस्वीरें  were slow to take  रूट  .
In  इण्डिया   ,   ध्वनि  was  the   transformative  element  कि  led  to   the  rapid expansion of the  स्वदेश  's film industry—the  सबसे   उत्पादक  such  उद्योग   in  the  संसार   चूंकि  the early  1960s   .
अफ़्रीकी  people  हैं  natives or  निवासियों  of Africa and people of African descent .
the  Australian Recording Industry  संघ  Music Awards ( commonly known as ARIA Music Awards  or   aria  Awards )  is  an annual series  of  awards  नाइट्स   celebrating  the  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  music  उद्योग   ,  put on  by  the  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  Recording  उद्योग  Association ( ARIA  )  .
The event has  महरूम   आयोजित  annually since  1987  and  encompasses  the  सामान्य  genre-specific and popular awards (  ये  are what is usually being referred  to  as  ``  the ARIA  पुरस्कार  '' ) as  खूब  as  ठीक   कला  Awards and Artisan Awards  (  held separately from 2004  )   ,  Lifetime Achievement  पुरस्कार   और   aria   हॉल  of  कीर्ति  – held separately from 2005 to  2010   लकिन   लौटे  to the general ceremony in 2011 .
For 2010  ,  ARIA introduced  पब्लिक  voted awards for the first  समय   .
Winning , or  भी   होने  nominated for , an ARIA award  परिणाम  in a  लॉट   of  media attention on an  कलाकार   ,  and  प्रायः  increases  रिकॉर्डिंग  sales several-fold  –   in   2005   ,   लिये  example  ,   बाद   बेन  Lee  जीती  three awards , his album Awake Is  the   नई   नींद   कूद  from  no   .  31  to   no  .  5  in the  aria  Charts  ,  its  उच्चतम   स्थिति  .
For-profit education (  भी   ज्ञात   as   the  education  सेवाएं   उद्योग  or proprietary education )  refers  to educational institutions operated  by  private , profit  -seeking   व्यवसायों   .
There are  तीन  types  of   for-profit  schools .
एक  type  is   ज्ञात  as  an  educational  प्रबन्धन   संगठन  ( EMO  )  ,  और  these are  प्राथमिक   और  secondary  शैक्षणिक  institutions  .
EMOs work with  स्कूल   जिले  or charter schools , using public  निधि  to finance operations .
the  majority of for-profit  स्कूलों  in  the  K–12 sector  in  America  फलन   as   emos  , and  have  grown in number in  the  mid-2000s  .
the  other  प्रमुख  category of for-profit  स्कूलों  are post-secondary institutions  जिससे   operate  as  व्यवसायों  , receiving  शुल्क  from  प्रत्येक  student  वे  enroll  .
A third type of  for-profit  schools ,  जिससे  is less prevalent in  the  United States ,  हैं  K–12 schools which operate  as  businesses  .
emos   फलन   differently   इससे  charter schools created in  अनुक्रम   to   carry  out a particular teaching  pedagogy   ;   सबसे   चार्टर   स्कूलों   हैं  mission-oriented , while EMOs and other  for-profit   संस्थानों   हैं  market-oriented .
जबकि   समर्थक  argue  कि  the profit  motive  encourages  दक्षता   ,  this  व्यवस्था  has also  drawn  controversy  और  criticism  .
Kevin Carey  ,  director of the education policy  कार्यक्रम   of   the  New American Foundation said in  a  2010 column in The  वृत्तान्त   of   उच्चतर   शिक्षा  that  ``   for-profits  exist in  विशाल   भाग   to   फिक्स   शैक्षणिक  market  असफलताओं  left by  परंपरागत   संस्थानों   ,  and they  लाभ   by   सेवारत  students that public and private  nonprofit   संस्थानों  too often  ignore  . ''
he   भी  noted  कि   ``   वहीँ   's  no doubt that  the  worst  for-profits   हैं   निर्मम   exploiting   the  commodified college degree .
But  वे  did  n't   commodify  it  in  the first place . ''
Amendment XXII in the National Archives
the  Twenty-second Amendment of the United States  संविधान  sets a term limit  लिये  election to  the  office of President  of  the United States  .
कॉंग्रेस  passed the  amendment   on  March  21  , 1947 .
it   थी   ratified  by the  आवश्यक   क्रमांक  of  राज्य   on  February  27   ,   1951  .
This is an episode guide for  the   दुश्मनी  series  bobobo-bo  Bo-bobo  .
इस   सूची   encompasses  every episode , beginning  साथ  the original  japanese-language  title  as  they aired on TV Asahi , followed  by  the title used in  the  English dubbed version airing  in  the  संयुक्त  States  on  Cartoon Network .
A short summary will follow , introducing  the   एपीसोड  and referring to some  of  the  ढकोसला  ,  लकिन   नहीं   giving  the complete  summaries   to   the   एपीसोड  .
सब  names and some  of   the   सन्दर्भ  will be  the  ones used  इससे  the English-language version to  avoid   भ्रम   .
Japanese names may  be   प्रस्तुत  after the dub name  in  parentheses .
This  आलेख  is about  the  public park in  नई  York City  .
For other  उपयोग  , see Central  पार्क  (  बहुविकल्पी  ) .
सेंट्रल  Park  is  a public park at the  बीच  of  मैनहटन   in  New  यॉर्क  City .
The  पार्क   initially   खोली   in  1857  ,  on  of   city-owned  land  (  it is 843  एकड़  today ) .
In 1858  ,  Frederick Law  olmsted  and Calvert Vaux  जीती   a  design  प्रतियोगिता   to  improve  और  expand  the  park with a plan they  हकदार  the  greensward  Plan  .
Construction began  the  same  साल  , continued during  the   अमरीकी   सिविल  War ,  और  was  समाप्त   in  1873 .
Central Park is the most  visited  urban park  in  the United  राज्य  .
Designated a National  ऐतिहासिक   लैंडमार्क  in 1962  ,  the park  is   फिलहाल  managed by the  सेंट्रल   पार्क  Conservancy under contract  साथ  the  नगर   सरकारी  .
The Conservancy is  a   non-profit   संगठन  that contributes 83.5  %   of  Central  पार्क   's   $  37.5  लाख  annual budget  ,  and employs 80.7  %  of the park  's  maintenance staff  .
TracFone  बेतार   ,   inc.  is a prepaid  बेतार  service provider operating  in   the  United  राज्य  including Puerto Rico and  the   us  Virgin  आइलैंड्स   और   is  a subsidiary of  मैक्सिको  's  largest  telecommunications provider ,  américa  Móvil .
as  a Mobile Virtual Network  ऑपरेटर   (  MVNO  )  ,  tracfone   बेतार   holds   अनेक   समझौतों  with  the  US largest wireless telecommunications  कंपनियाँ  to  utilize  their networks to provide service  सहित   those   of  Verizon  ,  AT  &   t  ,  स्प्रिंट  ,  और  T-Mobile .
TracFone Wireless  offers  its  बेतार  products  अंतर्गत  multiple brands which each  भी   प्रस्ताव   distinctive  service  योजनाएँ   ,  the  ब्रांड्स  include  tracfone  ,  net10  Wireless  ,  Straight Talk , SafeLink  बेतार  , Telcel  américa  and Simple Mobile .
A  पकड़ें  dredge
dredging  is an  खुदाई   कार्यकलाप  or  आपरेशन  usually  carried   आउट  at least partly underwater , in  उथले  seas or fresh water areas with  the  purpose of gathering up  नीचे  sediments  और  disposing of them at  a  different location .
This  तकनीक   is  often  प्रयुक्त  to keep waterways  navigable  .
it   is  also  प्रयुक्त  as a way to  replenish  sand  on   कुछ   पब्लिक  beaches , where sand has been  खोया   क्युकी  of coastal  अपरदन  .
Dredging is also  प्रयुक्त  as a  तकनीक  for  फ़िशिंग  for  निश्चित   प्रजाति  of edible  क्लेम   और   केकड़े  ,  देखिए   फ़िशिंग   dredge  .
A  dredger  ( or “dredge” as is the general usage  in   the   americas   )  is  कोई  device , machine  ,  or vessel that is used  to  excavate  और  remove material from the  नीचे  of  a  body  of  water .
लिये  example , a scoop attached to the  समाप्त   of   a  rope or pole  by   जिससे   a  man  can   चित्रण   sediments  up from the bottom  of  a pond is a  dredger  .
Developing  इस   विचार  further  ,  a motorized crane equipped with  a  drag bucket or  clamshell   (   grabber  )  कि  is used to scoop  सामग्री  from the bottom of a body  of  water  is  also a dredger  .
the   क्रेन  could  be  located on the  बैंको   ,  or  शायद  mounted on  a  barge .
if   the   क्रेन  is mounted on a barge , the  संपूर्ण   पोत  is referred  to  as a  dredger   .
the   प्रक्रम   of   dredging  creates spoils ( excess  सामग्री  )  ,   जिससे   हैं  carried away from the  dredged   क्षेत्रफल  .
dredging  can produce materials for  जमीन   reclamation  or  अन्य  purposes ( usually  construction-related  ) ,  और   रै  also historically played a  significant   भूमिका  in  सुनहरा  mining .
Dredging can  बनाएँ  disturbance  in  aquatic  ecosystems  ,  प्रायः  with adverse  impacts  .
Cleveland  ज्वालामुखी  in  the  Aleutian  आइलैंड्स  of Alaska  photographed  from  the  International Space Station  ,  May 2006 .
राख  plumes  पहुँचे  a  ऊँचाई  of 19  km   दौरान  the climactic  फटना  at Mount Pinatubo , Philippines  in  1991  .
A  ज्वालामुखी  is  an   खोलने  , or  rupture   ,  in  a   ग्रह   's  surface  or   क्रस्ट  ,  जिससे  allows  hot  magma  ,  volcanic  राख   और  gases  to  escape from  the  magma  कक्ष  below the surface  .
ज्वालामुखी  are generally found where  tectonic  plates  हैं   diverging  or converging .
a  mid-oceanic  लकीरें  ,  लिये   उदाहरण  the Mid-Atlantic Ridge ,  रै  examples of volcanoes caused by divergent  tectonic  plates pulling  अलावा  ; the Pacific  रिंग  of  आग  has  उदाहरण   of   ज्वालामुखी  caused by convergent  tectonic   प्लेटों  coming  साथ   .
By contrast , volcanoes are usually  नहीं   निर्मित  where  दो   tectonic  plates slide  पास्ट  one another  .
Volcanoes  can  also  रूप   जहाँ  there  is   stretching  and thinning  of  the Earth  's  crust in the  इंटीरियर्स  of  प्लेटों   ,   e.g.  , in the East  अफ़्रीकी  Rift , the Wells  gray-clearwater   volcanic  field and the Rio  ग्रांडे  Rift  in  North America .
This  प्रकार  of volcanism  जलप्रपात   अंतर्गत   the   छतरियाँ   of   ``   थाली   परिकल्पना  '' volcanism .
Volcanism away  इससे  plate boundaries  रै  also  महरूम   समझाया  as mantle plumes .
These so-called `` hotspots `` , for example  हवाई   ,  are  postulated  to  उठता  from upwelling diapirs with magma from  the   core–mantle  boundary , 3,000  km  deep  in  the  धरती  .
Erupting volcanoes  can   पोज़  many hazards  ,   नहीं  only in  the   तात्कालिक  vicinity  of   the  eruption .
Volcanic ash  can   be  a threat to aircraft  ,   in  particular those with jet  इंजन   जहाँ  ash  अणु   can  be melted by  the   ऊँची   ऑपरेटिंग  temperature .
Large eruptions  can   affect   तापमान   as  ash  और  droplets of sulfuric  एसिड  obscure the  सूर्य   और  cool the  धरती   's   निम्नतर   माहौल   or  troposphere ; however , they also absorb  ऊष्मा  radiated  up  from  the  Earth , thereby warming the  stratosphere   .
historically   ,  so-called volcanic winters have caused  अनर्थकारी   अकाल   .
बेनेडिक्ट   अर्नाल्ड  ( June  14  , 1801  )  was a  सामान्य  during the American Revolutionary  युद्ध  who  originally  fought  लिये   the  American  महाद्वीपीय   फौज  but defected  to  the British Army .
While a  सामान्य  on  the  American side ,  he  obtained  कमांड  of  the  fort at  वेस्ट  Point , New York , and  नियोजित  to surrender it to the British forces  .
बाद   the   योजना  was exposed in September  1780   ,  he  थी  commissioned  into  the British  फौज  as a brigadier general .
born  in Connecticut  ,   अर्नाल्ड   थी   a  merchant operating  जहाजों  on the Atlantic Ocean  जब  the  युद्ध   broke   आउट   in  1775 .
बाद  joining the growing army outside Boston ,  he  distinguished  खुद   through   अधिनियमों  of intelligence and bravery  .
His  क्रियाएँ   शामिल   the  Capture  of   फोर्ट  Ticonderoga  in   1775  , defensive  और   delaying   tactics  despite  खोने  the  बैटल  of Valcour  द्वीप  on Lake Champlain  in  1776  ,   the  Battle of Ridgefield , Connecticut (  बाद  which  he  was  प्रचारित   to   प्रमुख   सामान्य  ) ,  परिचालन  in  राहत  of  the   घेरा   of  Fort Stanwix , and key  क्रियाएँ   दौरान  the pivotal Battles of  साराटोगा  in 1777  ,  in which he suffered  लेग  injuries that ended  उसके   कॉम्बैट  career for  अनेक   सालो  .
Despite Arnold  's   सफलताओं   ,  he  थी   passed   over  for  प्रमोशन   by  the  महाद्वीपीय   कॉंग्रेस   जबकि  other officers claimed credit for  कुछ   of  his accomplishments .
Adversaries in military and  राजनैतिक  circles brought charges  of  corruption  or  other  malfeasance  , but  सबसे   प्रायः   he  was acquitted  in  formal inquiries  .
कॉंग्रेस   investigated  his  खाते  and found he  थी  indebted  to  Congress after  बिता  much of his  अपना   धन  on  the  war effort  .
Frustrated  और   कड़वा   ,   अर्नाल्ड  decided  to   बदलें   पहलू   in   1779   ,  and  खोली  secret negotiations  साथ  the British .
In July 1780  ,   he   थी  offered  ,   जारी  to pursue and was awarded  कमांड   of   वेस्ट  Point .
Arnold 's scheme to surrender the  फोर्ट   to   the   अंग्रेजों  was exposed when American forces  captured   अंग्रेजों  Major John  आंद्रे   carrying   papers  that  नाज़िल   the   प्लाट  .
Upon  सीखना  of  आंद्रे   's  capture , Arnold  fled   bas  the  हडसन   नदी   to   the   अंग्रेजों   sloop-of-war  Vulture  ,   narrowly  avoiding  कैप्चर  by the  शक्तियां  of George Washington , who had been alerted to the  प्लाट  .
Arnold received a commission  as  a  ब्रिगेडियर   सामान्य   in   the   अंग्रेजों  Army  ,  an annual pension of £360  ,  and a lump sum of over £6,000  .
he  led  अंग्रेजों  forces on raids  in  Virginia ,  और  against  नई  London  और  Groton  ,  Connecticut  ,   पहले  the  युद्ध  effectively ended with the  अमरीकी   विजय   at  Yorktown  .
in  the winter of  1782  , Arnold moved to London with his second  बीवी   ,  Margaret `` Peggy '' Shippen Arnold  .
he  was  खूब  received by King George  iii  and  the   tories  but frowned upon by the  whigs  .
In 1787 ,  he  returned  to   the   व्यापारी   कारोबार   साथ  his sons Richard  और  Henry  in  Saint John , New  ब्रंसविक   .
He returned to London to  settle   permanently  in  1791   ,  where he  died  ten years later .
Because  of  the way  he   बदला  sides , his  नाम  quickly became  a  in  the  United States  लिये  treason  or  betrayal .
His  conflicting   विरासत  is recalled in the ambiguous nature of  कुछ  of  the  memorials  कि   have   महरूम  placed  in  his honor .
Curtis Montague Schilling  (  born November  14  ,  1966   )  is a former American Major League  बेसबॉल   right-handed   पिचर  and Video  खेल   डेवलपर   .
he   helped   सीसे   the   फिलाडेल्फिया   फ़िलीज़   to   the  World Series in and won  संसार  Series  championships  in  साथ  the Arizona  डाइमन्डबैक्स  and  in  and  साथ  the Boston Red  sox   .
Schilling retired with  a  career  postseason   रिकार्ड  of 11–2  .
His .846 postseason winning percentage is  a   major-league   रिकार्ड   among  pitchers with  at  least 10 decisions  .
After  retiring  , he founded  ग्रीन  Monster  खेल  which was  renamed   38  Studios .
the  company released Kingdoms  of   amalur   :  Reckoning  in   फ़रवरी  2012  ,  but just three months later , Schilling  रखी  off his entire  स्टाफ  amid  कठोर  financial  परेशानियों   कि   resulted  in  the   कम्पनी   लापता  payroll  the  previous week .
स्टार  Wars  is  an  अमरीकी   एपिक   स्पेस  opera franchise centered  on   a  film series created by  जार्ज   लुकास  .
The film  श्रेणी   रै   शाखित  a  मीडिया   मताधिकार   बाहर   the   फिल्मी   श्रेणी  called the  विस्तारित  Universe  सहित  books  ,  television series , computer and video games , and  कॉमिक   किताबे  .
These supplements  to   the   फिल्मी   trilogies   have  resulted in significant  विकास  of the series '  fictional   ब्रह्मांड  .
ये  media  रखा  the  मताधिकार  active in  the   अंतरिम   between  the  फिल्मी   trilogies  .
the  franchise portrays a galaxy that  is   वर्णित   as  far , far away in  the   दूर   पास्ट   .
it   commonly  portrays Jedi as  a   प्रतिनिधित्व   of   शुभ  , in  विरोध  with the  सिथ  ,  उनके  evil counterpart .
उनके  weapon  of  choice , the lightsaber , is  commonly   पहचाना  in popular  संस्कृति  .
The  fictional   ब्रह्मांड  also contains many  विषयवस्तु  ,  विशेषकर   प्रभाव   of  philosophy  और  religion  .
The first film  in  the series was originally  released   on  May  25  , 1977 , under the title  स्टार  Wars , by  20th  Century Fox ,  और   became  a worldwide  पॉप  culture phenomenon ,  followed   by  two sequels  ,   released   at  three-year  intervals  .
सोलह  years  बाद   the   रिलीज   of   the  trilogy 's final  फिल्मी   ,  the  पहला  in a new  प्रीक्वेल  trilogy  of  films  थी   released   .
The three  प्रीक्वेल   films   यहूद   भी  released at  three-year   intervals   ,   साथ  the final film of the trilogy released  on   may   19  , 2005  .
in   अक्तूबर  2012 ,  the  Walt Disney Company acquired Lucasfilm  लिये   $  4.05 billion and announced that it would produce  तीन   नई   films  , with  the  first film , Star  युद्धों  Episode  सात   ,   नियोजित   लिये  release  in  2015  .
20th Century Fox  स्टिल  retains  the  distribution rights to  the  first  दो   स्टार  Wars  trilogies  ,  owning   स्थाई  rights  लिये  the original film  एपीसोड  IV :  a  New Hope ,  जबकि   पकड़कर  the rights to Episodes I–III ,  v   और   vi  until May  2020  .
Reactions to  the  original  त्रयी  were  ज़्यादातर  positive , with  the  last  फिल्मी  being considered the weakest  ,  while  the   प्रीक्वेल  trilogy received  a  more mixed reaction ,  साथ   सबसे  of  the  praise  होने  for the final  फिल्म  ,  according   to  most review  एग्रीगेटर  websites .
All  छह   of   the   प्रमुख  films in the  श्रेणी  were  भी   मनोनीत   लिये   or   जीती  Academy  पुरस्कार  .
All of the  प्रमुख  films have been box  दफ्तर   सफलताओं   ,   साथ  the  overall   बक्सा   दफ्तर  revenue generated  by   the   स्टार  Wars  films  ( including  the  theatrical  स्टार  Wars  :  The Clone Wars  )   totalling  $ 4.49 billion  ,  making it the  third-highest-grossing   फिल्मी   श्रेणी  .
The success has  भी  led to  अनेक  re-releases  in  theaters for the series  .
Plateletpheresis  (  more  accurately  called thrombocytapheresis  or  thrombapheresis ,  हालांकि  these names  हैं   rarely  used  )   is  the process  of  collecting  thrombocytes  , more commonly  पुकारा  platelets  ,   a   घटक   of  blood  शामिल  in  रक्त  clotting .
the  term  specifically  refers to  the   विधि  of  collecting   the  platelets ,  जिससे  is performed by  a  device used  in  blood donation that  separates  the platelets and returns  अन्य  portions  of  the blood to the  दाता  .
Platelet transfusion  can   be  a  life-saving   कार्यविधि  in preventing or treating  गंभीर  complications from bleeding and hemorrhage  in   मरीजों   जो   have  disorders  manifesting  as thrombocytopenia  (  low platelet count ) or platelet  dysfunction  .
इस   प्रक्रम  may also be  प्रयुक्त  therapeutically to  दावत   विकार   resulting   in  extraordinarily  ऊँची  platelet counts such  as  essential  thrombocytosis   .
In  कंप्यूटर   नेटवर्किंग   ,   a  port  is   an  application-specific  or   process-specific  software construct serving as  a   संचार  endpoint  in  a  कंप्यूटर   's   मेजबान  operating  प्रणाली  .
A port is associated  साथ  an IP  पता   of  the host ,  as  well as the type of  प्रोटोकॉल   प्रयुक्त  for  संचार   .
The  purpose  of  पोर्ट  is to  uniquely  identify  अलग   अनुप्रयोग   or  processes running on  a   सिंगल   कंप्यूटर  and thereby enable them  to   share   a  single physical connection  to   a   packet-switched  network like the Internet .
the   प्रोटोकॉल   कि  primarily use ports are the Transport Layer protocols , such  as  the  हस्तांतरण   कंट्रोल   प्रोटोकॉल   (  TCP )  और  the User  datagram   प्रोटोकॉल  ( UDP )  of  the  अंतरजाल  Protocol  सुइट   .
A port is identified for  प्रत्येक  address and protocol by  a  16-bit  क्रमांक   ,   commonly   ज्ञात  as  the   बंदरगाहों   क्रमांक   .
The  बंदरगाहों   क्रमांक   ,  added to a  कंप्यूटर   's  IP  पता  , completes  the  destination  पता  for a communications  सत्र  .
कि  is  ,   आंकड़ा  packets are routed  आरपार   the  network to  a  specific  गंतव्य  IP address ,  और   तब  ,  upon  reaching  the  destination computer  ,  are  further  routed to the  विशिष्ट   प्रक्रम  bound  to   the  destination port number  .
Note that it is  the  combination  of  IP  पता  and  बंदरगाहों   क्रमांक   साथ   कि   जरूर  be globally  अद्वितीय  .
Thus ,  अलग   ip  addresses  or   प्रोटोकॉल  may use the same port number  लिये   संचार   ;  e.g. , on a given  मेजबान   or  interface  यूडीपी  and TCP may  उपयोग   the  same  बंदरगाहों   क्रमांक  , or on a host  साथ  two  अंतरफलक  , both addresses  may  be  संबद्ध   साथ   a   बंदरगाहों  having the same  क्रमांक  .
Of  the  thousands of  enumerated   पोर्ट  ,  परिचय  250 well-known ports are reserved  by   सम्मेलन   to   पहचानो  specific service types on a  मेजबान  .
in  the  client-server  model of  अनुप्रयोग  architecture , ports are  प्रयुक्त  to  provide   a  multiplexing  सेवा  on each  server-side  port number that network clients connect to for service  दीक्षा  , after  जिससे  communication can be  reestablished  on other  connection-specific  port  संख्याएँ  .
Area code  479  is the telephone area  कोड  serving  तेरह   काउंटी  in  उत्तरपश्चिम  Arkansas , including the cities  of  Fort Smith  ,  Fayetteville ,  springdale   ,  Rogers  और  Bentonville :  the  second  ,  third ,  चौथी   ,  eighth  और   tenth-largest   शहरों   in  the state , respectively  .
it   थी  created  in  2002 in  a   विभाजित  from area  कोड  501  .
Area  कोड  479 serves  benton  ,  कैरल   (  split with  क्षेत्रफल   कोड   870  ) , Crawford , Franklin , Johnson  ,  Logan  ,   मैडिसन  , Polk , Pope , Scott , Sebastian  ,  Washington  और  Yell Counties  in  Arkansas .
Arraignment  is   a  formal  पढना  of  a  criminal  चार्जिंग  document in  the   उपस्थिति   of  the  प्रतिवादी  to inform the defendant  of  the  आरोप   विरूद्ध   उसे  or  उसके  .
In  जवाब   to  arraignment  ,   the   अभियुक्त   is  expected  to  enter a plea .
Acceptable pleas  vary   among  jurisdictions , but they  generally   शामिल   ``   अपराधी  ''  ,   ``   नहीं  guilty ''  ,   और  the  peremptory  pleas  (  or pleas in bar ) setting  आउट  reasons why  a   विचारण   can   नहीं   proceed  .
pleas  of `` nolo  contendere  ``  (  no contest ) and  the   ``  Alford plea ``  हैं  allowed  in  some  हालातों   .
In  इंग्लैण्ड   ,  Wales  ,   उत्तरी  Ireland  और   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  ,  arraignment  is  the  first  of  eleven  चरण  in  a   दण्ड   विचारण  , and involves  the  clerk of the  अदालत   पढना  out the indictment  .
The defendant  is   पूछा  whether  he  or she  pleads  guilty or not guilty to each  चार्ज  .
in  federal  न्यायालयों  of the United  राज्य  ,  arraignment   takes  place  in   दो  stages  .
the   पहला  is  पुकारा   the   आरंभिक  arraignment and must take place  भीतर  48 hours of an individual 's arrest  ,   72   घंटों  if the  व्यक्तिगत  was  गिरफ्तार  on  the  weekend and not able to go before  a  judge until  सोमवार  .
During this arraignment the defendant is informed  of  the  स्थगित   विधिक  charges and is informed of his or her  सही  to retain counsel .
The presiding judge also decides  at  what amount , if  कोई   ,  to  नियत  bail  .
दौरान  the  दूसरी   arraignment   ,  a  post-indictment  arraignment or PIA  ,   the   प्रतिवादी  is allowed to  डालें  a  दलील   .
Geoffrey Chaucer  (  ; c. 1343  –  25 October  1400   )  , known as the Father of  अंग्रेज़ी  literature  ,   is   widely  considered  the  greatest English  कवि   of   the   मध्य   आयु  and was  the   पहला  poet to have been buried  in   कवि  's Corner of Westminster  ऐबी  .
While  he  achieved  कीर्ति  during his lifetime as  an  author  ,  philosopher , alchemist and astronomer  ,  composing  a  scientific  treatise  on  the  astrolabe for  उसके  ten year-old son  लुईस  , Chaucer also maintained an  क्रियाशील  career in the civil service as a bureaucrat  ,   नवरत्नों  and diplomat .
among   उसके   अनेक   works  , which include The  किताब  of the Duchess , the House of Fame ,  the   लेजेंड   of   शुभ  Women  और  Troilus and  criseyde  , he  is   बेहतरीन   ज्ञात  today for The  canterbury  Tales .
चासर  is  a  crucial figure in  विकासशील  the  legitimacy  of the  देशी  ,  मध्य   अंग्रेज़ी  , at  a  time  जब  the  प्रबल   साहित्यिक  languages  in   इंग्लैण्ड  were French  और  Latin .
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979  थी   a  major blizzard that affected northern Illinois and  उत्तरपश्चिम  Indiana ,  u.S.  on January 13 – January 14 ,  1979   .
of  snow fell on  जनवरी  13  अलोन   ,   सेटिंग  a new record for snow in one calendar day .
by  the  समाप्त  of  जनवरी   14  , of  हिम  had fallen .
the  cold weather  और  snowfall throughout the  बाकी   of   जनवरी  and  फ़रवरी  resulted  in  frozen tracks throughout the Chicago 'L  '  system .
Commuters crowded  onto  CTA buses  ,  quickly overwhelming capacity ,  resulting  in  usual  bus commutes of  30-45  minutes taking  up  to  अनेक   घंटों   .
To avoid huge snowdrifts  in  the streets ,  the   overcrowded  buses were obliged  to  take numerous  detours  , adding  अतिरिक्त  time to the commute .
Deployment  of   plows   थी  significantly  विलम्बित  and  जब   वे  finally  appeared   वे   struggled  to keep up  साथ  the snowfall .
Much of  the  snow remained unremoved  throughout   the  next  2  months  ,   causing  ongoing public  पारगमन   देरी  and significant problems with trash  संग्रहण   .
The city 's  अपर्याप्त  response to the blizzard was blamed  primarily  on mayor  माइकल   bilandic  ,  जो   था  assumed the post  बाद  the 1976  मौत  of Richard J.  डाले  .
Newspaper articles at  the  time blasted Bilandic  ;  Jane Byrne ,  bilandic   's   प्रमुख  political  प्रतिद्वंद्वी  in the  लोकतांत्रिक  primary  (  who had previously worked with  bilandic  in the  डाले   प्रशासन   और   महरूम  fired by  bilandic  when  the  two could not  मिलेंगी   साथ  ) ,  capitalized  on this  और  went  on   to  defeat Bilandic in the  फ़रवरी  27  प्राथमिक   .
The  12-hour   क्लॉक   is  a  समय  convention in which the  24  hours  of  the day are  विभाजित   into  two  अवधि   :   a.m.  ( from  the  Latin ante meridiem ,  अर्थ   ``  before midday '' ) and  p.m.  (  पोस्ट  meridiem , `` after midday ''  )  .
प्रत्येक  period consists of  12  hours numbered :  12  (  एक्टिंग   as   शून्य  )  ,   1  , 2 , 3  ,   4   ,  5 , 6 , 7  ,   8  , 9 ,  10  ,  और  11 .
The 12-hour clock  थी  developed over time from the mid-second millennium BC to  the  16th century AD  .
Health  बिता  per capita ,  in  $ US PPP-adjusted  ,  with  the   us   और   कनाडा  compared amongst  अन्य  first  संसार  nations .
तुलना  of  the   स्वास्थ्य   परवाह  systems  in  Canada and  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   हैं   प्रायः   बना   by   सरकारी   ,   पब्लिक  health and public policy analysts .
the  two countries had similar  स्वास्थ्य   परवाह  systems  पहले  Canada reformed  इसके   प्रणाली  in  the   1960s  and 1970s  .
The United  राज्य   खर्च   much   अधिक  money  on  health  परवाह   than  Canada  ,  on both a per-capita  आधार  and as  a  percentage of GDP .
in  2006  ,   per-capita   बिता  for health care in  कनाडा  was  us  $  3,678  ; in  the   u.S.   ,   us   $  6,714  .
The  u.S.   खर्च  15.3 % of  जीडीपी  on health  परवाह  in that year  ;   कनाडा   खर्च  10.0 % .
In  2006   ,  70 % of  स्वास्थ्य  care spending in Canada was  financed   by  government , versus  46  % in  the  United States  .
कुल  government  बिता   प्रति  capita in the U.S.  on  health care was  23  % higher  than   कनाडाई  government  बिता   ,   और  U.S. government expenditure  on   स्वास्थ्य  care was just under  83  % of total Canadian  बिता  ( public and private )  हालांकि   ये  statistics do  n't  take  into  account  जनसांख्यिकी  differences .
Studies have come to  अलग   conclusions  about  the   परिणाम   of  this  disparity   in   बिता  .
A 2007  पुनर्विलोकन  of all studies comparing  स्वास्थ्य  outcomes in  कनाडा  and the  us  in  a  Canadian  peer-reviewed   चिकित्सा   जर्नल  found  कि  `` health outcomes may  be   श्रेष्ठ   in   मरीजों  cared  लिये  in Canada  बनाम   the  United  राज्य  ,  लकिन  differences  हैं  not consistent .  ''
जीवन   प्रत्याशा  is  longer  in Canada , and  इसके  infant  मृत्यु   रेट   is  lower than that  of   the  U.S. ,  लकिन   वहीँ   is   बहस   परिचय   the  underlying causes of  ये  differences  .
One commonly cited  तुलना   ,  the  2000  World Health  संगठन  's  दरजा   of   ``   overall  health service  प्रदर्शन  '' , which used a  ``  composite measure of achievement  in   the   स्तर  of  स्वास्थ्य   ,  the distribution of health , the level  of   responsiveness  and  निष्पक्षता  of financial  योगदान  ''  ,  ranked Canada  30th   और  the US 37th  among  191 member nations .
इस  study  रेटेड   the   us  `` responsiveness ''  ,  or quality  of  service for  individuals  receiving treatment  ,  as 1st , compared with 7th for Canada  .
While  the  average life  प्रत्याशा   लिये   canadians  was 80.34 years  compared  with 78.6  सालो  for residents  of   the  US , simply comparing  the  life  प्रत्याशा   of  two  समूह   साथ   अलग   जातिगत  makeup  और  different obesity rates is  संभावित   नहीं   an  effective  रास्ता  of determining which healthcare  प्रणाली  is  श्रेष्ठ   .
the  WHO 's  पढ़ाई  methods  यहूद  criticized  by  some  analyses   .
Although there is a measure of  सर्वसम्मति  that life-expectancy and infant  मृत्यु  mark the most reliable  तरीके  to  compare  nation-wide  स्वास्थ्य  care  ,  assuming  the  population  मेकअप   is   समान  ,  a  recent report  by  the Congressional  शोध   सेवा  carefully summarizes some  हाल  data  और   टीप   the  `` difficult research  मुद्दे   ''  facing international comparisons  .
tarantulas   comprise  a group of often  बालदार   और  very  विशाल  arachnids belonging to the Theraphosidae  परिवार  of spiders  ,   of   जिससे   लगभग  900  प्रजाति   have  been  पहचाना  .
This article only describes  सदस्यों  of Theraphosidae  ,   हालांकि  some  अन्य  members  of   the  same  suborder  are  commonly  referred  to  as `` tarantulas ''  .
Most species of  tarantulas   हैं  not  खतरनाक  to humans , and some species  have   become  popular  in   the  exotic pet trade .
the  ton  is  a  ईकाई   of   माप   .
It has a long history and  रै  acquired a number  of  meanings and  उपयोग   over  the  सालो  .
It  is  used  प्रधानतया  as  a  unit of weight  ,   और   as  a  ईकाई   of  volume .
It  can  also be  प्रयुक्त  as a measure of  उर्जा  , for truck classification  ,  or as a  colloquial  term .
it   is   निकला   इससे   the   tun   ,   the  term applied to a barrel of  the  largest size .
This could  contain  a  आवाज़  between 210 and 256 gallons  (  800  to  1000  l  )  ,  which  could   तौल  around 2,000  पाउंड  ( 900 kg ) and  occupy  some of space  .
In the United  किंगडम  the ton is defined as  (   avoirdupois  pounds ) .
इससे  1965  the  UK  embarked   upon   a  programme of metrication and gradually introduced  मीट्रिक   इकाई   ,  including the  टन  (  मीट्रिक  ton  )  ,  a   non-si   मीट्रिक  unit defined as 1000  kg  .
The UK Weights  और   उपायों   अधिनियम   1985   explicitly   excluded  from use  लिये   व्यापार   अनेक   इकाई   और   शर्तें  , including the ton  और  the  पद   ``   मीट्रिक   ton   ''   लिये  `` tonne ''
In  the  United States and formerly  कनाडा  a ton  is  defined to be .
Where  भ्रम   is   संभावित  ,  the  2240  lb  ton is  पुकारा  `` long  ton  ``  और  the 2000  lb   ton  `` short ton  ``  ;  the  tonne is  विशिष्ट  by  इसके  spelling  ,   लकिन  usually  सुनाया  the  वही  as ton  ,  hence  the  US  पद   ``  metric ton ''  .
In the  uk   the   फाइनल   ``  e '' of ``  टन   ''  can  भी   be  pronounced (  /ˈtʌnɪ/  )  ,  or ``  मीट्रिक   ton  '' when  it   is  necessary to make the distinction  .
Where  सटीकता  is required  the  correct term  जरूर  be used  ,  but  लिये   अनेक  purposes  इस  is  नहीं  necessary :  the  metric and long tons differ  by   तभी  1.6  %  , and the  छोटी  ton  is  within 11  %  of  दोनो  .
The  ton   is  the heaviest  ईकाई  of weight  referred   to   in  colloquial speech .
The term ``  ton  ''  is   भी  used to  refer   to  a number of  इकाई  of  आवाज़   ,  ranging from in capacity .
it  can  भी  be used  as  a unit of energy  ,  expressed  as  an  समतुल्य  of coal burnt , TNT  detonated   ,  or  in  refrigeration  ,   बर्फ   melted   .
In Britain , ton is used in  कठबोली  in several contexts  to  mean  ``  100 ''  .
As a  लागत  or  a   गति  ,  a  ton  is  widely understood  to  be  £100  or  100  mph .
The Stanley  कप   (  ) is the  चैंपियनशिप   ट्रॉफी   awarded   annually  to the National Hockey League  (  NHL ) playoff winner  बाद  the conclusion of the Stanley Cup Finals  .
Originally  commissioned   in  1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge  कप  ,  the   ट्रॉफी   is  named  लिये   रब  Stanley  of   preston  ,  then-  Governor General  of   कनाडा   ,   जो  awarded  it  to Canada  's  top-ranking  amateur  ice  हॉकी  club  ,  which the entire Stanley family supported  ,  with the  बेटे  and daughters playing  और   promoting   the   खेल   .
The first Cup was awarded in 1893 to Montreal HC .
in   1915   ,  the two professional  बर्फ   हॉकी  organizations , the National  हॉकी  Association  (   नह   )   और  the Pacific Coast Hockey Association (  pcha  ) ,  पहुँचे  a gentlemen 's agreement  in   जिससे  their respective champions would face each other for the Stanley Cup .
After  a   श्रेणी  of league  मर्जर   और   फोल्ड   ,  the  स्टेनली   ``   प्रस्तुतीकरण  Cup  ''  was  स्थापित  as  the  de facto championship  ट्रॉफी  of  the   एनएचएल  in 1926  और   तब   the  de  jure  NHL championship prize  in   1947   .
वहीँ  are  दरअसल  three Stanley Cups : the  असली   कटोरी   of   the   ``   डोमिनियन  Hockey  चुनौती  Cup  ''   ,  the authenticated  ``  Presentation Cup '' , and the  ``  Replica Cup  ''  at  the  Hall  of   कीर्ति   .
The  एनएचएल  has maintained effective control over both  the  trophy itself  और  its  संबद्ध   trademarks  .
Nevertheless ,  the   एनएचएल  does  नहीं  actually own  the   ट्रॉफी  ,  लकिन   बजाय   उपयोग   it   by   अनुबंध  with  the   दो  Trustees  of   the   कप  .
the  NHL has registered  trademarks   संबद्ध   साथ  the  नाम   और  likeness of the Stanley Cup ,  हालांकि   the   लीग  's right  to   outright   अपना   trademarks   संबद्ध  with  a  trophy it  करता  not  अपना   रै  been  विवादित   by   कुछ  legal experts  .
Unlike  the  trophies  awarded  by  the  other three major professional sports leagues of North America  ,  a  नई   स्टेनली   कप  is  नहीं   बना  each year ; winners  रखना  it until  a  new  चैंपियन  is  पहनाया  .
It is unusual  among  trophies  ,  in that  it   रै  the  names  of all  of  the  जीतना  players , coaches , management  ,   और  club  स्टाफ   engraved  on its  chalice   .
initially   ,   a  new  बैंड   added  each year  caused   the  trophy to grow  in  size ,  कमाई   the  nickname `` Stovepipe  कप  ''  .
in   1958   the   आधुनिक  one-piece Cup was designed  साथ  a five-band barrel which could contain 13 winning teams  प्रति  band .
To  avoid  the Stanley  कप  from growing , when the bottom band  is  full , the oldest band  is  removed  और  preserved in the  हॉकी  Hall of  कीर्ति  ,  और   a  new blank band added to the bottom  .
It has been referred to  as  The  कप  ,  रब  Stanley 's  कप  , The Holy Grail , or facetiously  (  chiefly by sportswriters ) as  रब  Stanley  's   मग  .
The Stanley Cup is surrounded by  numerous  legends and traditions ,  the  oldest  of   जिससे  is  the   celebratory   पीने  of champagne  आउट  of the cup  by   the  winning  टोली   .
the   असली   कटोरी  was  बना  of silver and is 18.5 centimetres ( 7.28 inches  )   in   ऊँचाई  and  29   सेण्टीमीटर   (  11.42  इंच   )   in   व्यास  .
The  वर्तमान  Stanley Cup  ,   अव्वल   साथ   a   नक़ल  of  the  original bowl , is made  of  a silver  और  nickel alloy ; it has a height  of  89.54  सेण्टीमीटर   (   35.25   इंच  ) and weighs 15.5  गामा   (   34.5  lb / 2 st 61⁄2  lb  )  .
Since the  1914–15   ऋतु   ,  the  कप  has  महरूम   जीती  a  संयुक्त  94 times by  18   क्रियाशील   एनएचएल   टीमों   और  five  defunct   टीमों  .
Prior to that ,  the   चुनौती  cup was  आयोजित   by  nine  अलग   टीमों  .
the  Montreal  canadiens  have  जीती   the  Cup a record  24  times and  हैं  currently  the   पिछला  Canadian-based team  in   the   एनएचएल  to  जीत  the  कप   बाद  winning it  in  1993  .
The Stanley Cup was not awarded in 1919 because  of  a Spanish flu  महामारी  ,  और   in   2005  ,  as   a   consequence  of the  एनएचएल  lockout .
The  अनानास  (  ananas   comosus  )  is  a  तीव्र  plant  साथ  edible multiple  फल   consisting  of  coalesced  berries  ,   और  the  सबसे  economically significant plant  in   the  Bromeliaceae  परिवार  .
pineapples   may  be  cultivated  from a  क्राउन   कटिंग  of the fruit  ,  possibly flowering in  20–24  months and  fruiting   in  the  following  six months  .
अनानास  does  नहीं   ripen   significantly   post-harvest   .
Pineapples are  खपत  fresh , cooked  ,   juiced   ,  and preserved ,  और  are found  in  a  चौड़ी   सरणी  of cuisines  .
In  जोड   to  consumption , in the Philippines  the   अनानास   's  leaves  हैं   प्रयुक्त  to produce  the   वस्त्र  fiber  piña  -  employed   as  a component of wall paper  और  furnishings  ,   amongst   अन्य  uses .
in   कंप्यूटर  science ,  an  integer  is   a  datum  of  integral data type ,  a  data type  जिससे  represents some  परिमित   उपसमुच्चय   of   the   गणितीय  integers  .
Integral  आंकड़ा  types  may   be  of different  आकार  and may  or   may   नहीं   be  allowed to  contain  negative values .
Integers are commonly represented  in  a  कंप्यूटर  as a  समूह  of  शब्दकोष  digits .
the   आकार  of  the  grouping varies  so  the set of  पूर्णांक  sizes available varies between different types of computers .
Computer hardware nearly always  provides  a way to  represent   a   प्रोसेसर   पंजीकरण  or memory address  as  an  पूर्णांक  .
The Gordon Dam in Tasmania  is  a  विशाल   हाइड्रो  facility  ,  with  an  installed capacity of .
hydroelectricity   is  the term referring  to  electricity generated by hydropower ; the production  of   विद्युत   शक्ति  through the  उपयोग  of  the   गुरुत्वाकर्षक  force of  गिरना  or flowing water  .
It  is   the   सबसे  widely used form of renewable  उर्जा  ,  हिसाब  for 16 percent of  वैश्विक  electricity generation  –  3,427 terawatt-hours of  विद्युत   उत्पादन  in  2010  ,  और  is expected  to   बढ़ाएँ   परिचय   3.1  % each  साल  for the  अगला  25 years .
Hydropower is produced  in   150   देशों   ,   साथ  the Asia-Pacific  प्रदेश   generating  32 percent of  वैश्विक   hydropower   in  2010 .
चीन  is the largest hydroelectricity producer  ,  with  721  terawatt-hours of  उत्पादन  in  2010  , representing around 17 percent of domestic  विद्युत   उपयोग   .
There are now three  hydroelectricity  plants larger than  10  GW : the Three  gorges  Dam in China  ,  Itaipu  बांध   आरपार  the  brazil/paraguay   किनारा  , and Guri  बांध  in  वेनेजुएला  .
The  लागत   of   hydroelectricity  is  अपेक्षाकृत   कम  , making it  a   प्रतिस्पर्धी  source  of  renewable electricity  .
The  औसत  cost  of   विद्युत  from a  हाइड्रो  plant  larger   than  10 megawatts is 3 to 5 U.S. cents per kilowatt-hour  .
Hydro is  भी  a flexible source  of   विद्युत   चूंकि   पौधे   can   be   ramped  up and down very  जल्दी  to adapt  to  changing  उर्जा  demands .
However , damming interrupts the flow  of   नदियाँ  and can harm  लोकल  ecosystems , and  भवन   विशाल  dams and  टंकी   प्रायः  involves displacing people  और  wildlife .
Once  a   hydroelectric  complex is  constructed   ,  the project  produces  no direct waste , and has a considerably lower output  स्तर  of  the   ग्रीनहाउस  gas  कार्बन  dioxide ( ) than  चट्टान   ईंधन  powered  उर्जा  plants  .
वाइन  boy at a Greek symposium
the  history of wine spans thousands  of  years and is closely  intertwined   साथ  the history of  कृषि  , cuisine , civilization and  मानवता   itself   .
Archaeological  प्रमाण  suggests that the  earliest  known wine production  occurred   in  what is now  the   देश  of Georgia around 7000  bce  , with other notable sites in  वृहद   इरान  dated 4500 BCE  और  Armenia 4100  bce  , respectively  .
The world 's  oldest  known winery ( dated to  3000   bce  ) was  खोजा  in  areni-1   गुफा  in  a  mountainous  क्षेत्रफल  of Armenia .
URL_http  .
increasingly  clear archaeological evidence indicates that  domestication  of the grapevine  took  place during  the  Early  कांस्य   आयु   in  the Near East ,  सुमेर  and Egypt from  around  the  तीसरा   मिलेनियम   bce  .
प्रमाण  of  the   earliest   वाइन   उत्पादन   in   balkans  has  महरूम   uncovered   at  archaeological sites in northern  यूनानियों   (   मकदूनिया  ) ,  दिनाँक  to 4500  bc  .
These  वही  sites also contain remnants  of  the  संसार  's  earliest   प्रमाण   of  crushed  अंगूर  .
in  Egypt , wine  became   a  part of  अंकित   इतिहास   ,  playing an  महत्वपूर्ण   भूमिका  in  प्राचीन  ceremonial  जीवन   .
Traces  of  wild  वाइन   डेटिंग  from the second and  पहला  millennia BCE have also  महरूम   मिला  in China .
Moroccan wine  kasher  label  1930
The Jewish tradition and use of kosher wine is  डेटिंग  back  to   biblical  times .
The long  इतिहास   of   the   उपयोग   और   उत्पादन   of  wine throughout ancient Israel  is  backed up  by  archeological  प्रमाण   .
Within  the  Jewish diaspora communities all around the globe , the  परंपरागत  and  धार्मिक   उपयोग  of  कोषेर  wine continued to this  दिन   .
वाइन   ,  linked  in   मिथक  to Dionysus / Bacchus , was  आम   in  ancient Greece  और   रोम  , and many of today 's major wine-producing  regions  of  पश्चिमी  Europe were established with Phoenician  और  , later  ,  Roman plantations .
Winemaking technology  improved   considerably  during the  समय  of the Roman  साम्राज्य   :  many  अंगूर   किस्में   और  cultivation techniques  यहूद  known ; the  डिज़ाइन  of the  वाइन  press  उन्नत   ;   और   barrels   यहूद   विकसित   लिये  storing  और  shipping  वाइन  .
rashi  , a medieval French rabbi and called  the   ``  father '' of all commentaries  कि   followed   on  the  talmud  and the  tanakh   ,  earned  उसके   जीना   as  a vintner .
Following  the  decline of Rome  और  its industrial-scale wine production for export  ,   the  Christian Church in medieval Europe also became a firm supporter of  वाइन  , necessary  लिये  celebration  of  the Catholic  द्रव्यमान  . Whereas  वाइन   थी  forbidden  in  medieval  इस्लामी   संस्कृतियों   ,   इसके  use in Christian libation was  widely  tolerated  .
geber  and other Muslim chemists pioneered the distillation of wine  लिये  Islamic medicinal and industrial  उद्देश्य   ऐसे  as  परफ्यूम   .
Wine production gradually increased ,  साथ  consumption burgeoning from the  15th  century onwards .
Wine  उत्पादन   बच  the devastating Phylloxera louse of 1887 and eventually spread  to  numerous regions throughout the world  .
Districts  of   वेस्ट  Bengal
The  भारतीय  state of West  बंगाल   सीमायें   साथ   नेपाल  ,  भूटान   ,   बांग्लादेश   और  the  भारतीय  states of Bihar  ,   झारखण्ड  , Odisha ,  असम   और  Sikkim  .
the  Himalayas  झूठ  in  the  north of the state and the Bay  of   बंगाल   is   at  the south .
in  between them ,  the  river  गंगा  flows eastwards and its main distributary  ,   the  Hooghly River  ,  flows south  to  reach  the  Bay of  बंगाल  .
The  सिलीगुड़ी  Corridor , which  connects  North-East  इण्डिया  with rest  of  the  इण्डिया   ,  lies  in   the   उत्तर   बंगाल  region  of  the  राज्य   .
geographically  , West Bengal  is  divided into  a  variety of  regions—  Darjeeling  हिमालयी  hill region  ,  Terai and Doors  प्रदेश   ,   उत्तर  Bengal  मैदान  ,  rarh  region , Western plateau and  ऊँची  lands ,  तटीय   मैदान   ,   sunderbans  and  the  Ganges Delta .
in   1947  ,  जब  India gained independence ,  the   राज्य   of  West  बंगाल  was formed with  14  districts  ,  as  प्रति  partition plan of  the   तब  Bengal province of British India  .
the  former princely state Koch Bihar  joined   as   a  district in  1950  , and the former French enclave Chandannagore joined as part of  the   हुगली  district in 1954 .
the  States  पुनर्गठन   अधिनियम  of  1956   led   to  addition  of   पुरुलिया  district to  the   राज्य   और  to enlargement  of  West  दिनाजपुर  district .
बाद   ,  larger districts such as  वेस्ट   दिनाजपुर   ,  24 Parganas and  मिदनापुर  were  bifurcated   .
वेस्ट  Bengal is  अभी  divided  into  nineteen districts under three divisions  .
Districts are  administered  by District Magistrates , and  विभाजन   हैं  administered by Divisional Commissioners  .
Kolkata  ,  the capital  of  the  राज्य   ,  constitutes the  कोलकाता  district  .
अन्य  districts  हैं  further divided into administrative units such as subdivisions  और  blocks  ,  administered by SDO  और  BDO , respectively .
The  पंचायती   राज  has a three-tier structure in the state  .
The  परमाणु  unit is called  a   ग्राम   पंचायत   ,  which  is   the   पंचायत   संगठन  for a  संग्रहण   of  villages  .
The block-level organizations  हैं  called Panchayat  samiti   ,   और   the  district-level organizations are named Zilla Parishad .
the  Caribbean  (   or   ;   ;   ;  or more commonly  antilles   )  is  a   प्रदेश  that  consists   of   the  Caribbean Sea , its islands ( some surrounded by the  caribbean   समुद्र  and some  bordering  both  the  Caribbean Sea  और   the  North Atlantic Ocean  )   ,  and the surrounding  coasts  .
The region  is   southeast   of  the  गल्फ  of Mexico  और  the North  अमरीकी   मेनलैंड   ,   ईस्ट  of Central  अमेरिका  , and  उत्तर   of  South America  .
situated  largely on  the   caribbean  Plate , the  प्रदेश  comprises more than 700 islands , islets , reefs ,  और  cays .
( See the  सूची  . )
These  आइलैंड्स   generally   रूप   द्वीप   arcs  that delineate the  पूर्वी   और   उत्तरी   किनारे   of   the  Caribbean  समुद्र  .
the   caribbean  islands  ,  consisting  of   the  Greater Antilles on  the  north  और  the  lesser  Antilles on  the   दक्षिण  and east ( including the  leeward   antilles  )  ,  are part  of  the  somewhat   larger   वेस्ट  Indies  समूहीकरण  , which  भी  includes the  lucayan  Archipelago  (  comprising  the  Bahamas  और  Turks and Caicos  आइलैंड्स   )  north  of   the  Greater Antilles  और  Caribbean  समुद्र  .
in  a  wider  sense , the mainland countries  of  Belize  और  Guyana –  historically   और   culturally  part of  the  British West Indies  –  may be  शामिल  .
Geopolitically ,  the  Caribbean islands  हैं  usually regarded as a  subregion  of North America and are  व्यवस्थित   into  30  territories  including sovereign states ,  विदेशी  departments ,  और   dependencies  .
From  जनवरी  3  ,  1958  ,  to  may  31  ,   1962  ,  वहीँ   थी   a  short-lived country called the Federation of the West Indies composed  of   टेन   english-speaking   caribbean   territories   ,  all of  जिससे  were then UK  dependencies   .
The  वेस्ट   इंडीज  cricket  टोली  continues  to  represent many of  those  nations .
इस  is a list of the  221  towns  और   13   शहरों   in   the   u.S.  state of New  हैम्पशायर   .
For  प्रत्येक  town/city , the table  सूचियाँ   the   काउंटी  to which it  belongs  ,  इसके  date of  incorporation  , its population  according   to  the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी   ,  its form of government  ,  and  इसके  principal  गांवों  .
शहरों  are indicated  in   boldface  .
Cities  और   कस्बों   हैं  treated  identically  under  राज्य   विधि   .
Cities are  बस  towns  जिनकी   रूप   of   सरकारी  was changed  by  a special act of the New  हैम्पशायर  legislature .
However , towns currently are  समर्थ   to  change  उनके  form of government by  सरल   वोटर   स्वीकृति  of a new municipal charter , with several of the more  populous  towns having already done  so  .
The  प्रमुख  slave  रूट  in medieval  अफ़्रीकी  .
This article discusses systems , history  ,   और  effects  of   गुलामी  within Africa .
देखिए   अरब  slave trade , Atlantic  स्लेव  trade , Maafa , and  गुलामी   in   समकालीन  Africa for other discussions  .
``  Slave transport in Africa '' .
Europeans usually did  नहीं   डालें  the interior  regions  .
गुलामी   in  Africa has  existed  throughout the  महाद्वीप  for many  सदियां   ,  and continues  in  the current day .
Systems of servitude and  गुलामी  were  आम  in  अनेक  parts  of  the continent  ,   as  they  यहूद   in  much of the ancient world  .
in   सबसे  African societies where  गुलामी  was prevalent  ,  the enslaved people  यहूद   largely  treated as indentured servants and  नहीं   treated   as   chattel   स्लेव  .
जब  the Arab  स्लेव  trade and  अटलांटिक  slave trade began ,  अनेक   of  the  लोकल   स्लेव   प्रणालियों  changed and began supplying  captives  for slave markets outside of Africa  .
Slavery  in  historical  अफ़्रीकी  was  practiced  in  अनेक  different forms  और  some of these do  नहीं  clearly  अनुरूप   the   परिभाषाएं  of  गुलामी  elsewhere in the world .
कर्ज़  slavery , enslavement  of  war captives ,  सैन्य  slavery , and  दण्ड  slavery were all  practiced   in   विभिन्न  parts of  अफ़्रीकी   .
हालांकि   वहीँ   था  been  कुछ   trans-saharan  trade  इससे   the   आंतरिक  of  sub-saharan  Africa to  अन्य  regions  ,   गुलामी   थी   a  small part of the  आर्थिक  life  of  many  समाजों  in Africa  जबतक  the  परिचय  of  transcontinental  slave trades  (   अरब   और   अटलांटिक  ) .
Slave  practices   यहूद  again transformed with European colonization  of   अफ़्रीकी   और  the formal  abolition   of  slavery in  the  early  1900s  .
Brett Lorenzo  favre  (  born  October  10  , 1969  )  is  a  former American football quarterback  जो  spent  the   बहुमत   of  his career with the  ग्रीन  Bay  पैकर्स  of  the  National Football League  (  NFL ) .
He  थी  a 20-year veteran of the  एनएफएल  , having played quarterback  लिये  the Atlanta Falcons  (   1991  ) , Green Bay  पैकर्स   (  1992 – 2007  )   ,   नई   यॉर्क   jets  ( 2008  )  and  मिनेसोटा  Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 )  .
Favre is the only quarterback  in  NFL history  to   throw   लिये  over 70,000 yards ,  over  500 touchdowns ,  over   300  interceptions  ,   over   6,000  completions  ,   और  over  10,000  pass attempts .
Favre  प्रारंभ   at  the quarterback position for  the   विश्वविद्यालयों   of  Southern  मिसिसिपी  for four  सालो  before being  चयनित   in  the  दूसरी  round  of   the   1991  NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd  overall   )   .
He was  traded   to  Green  खाड़ी  on February 10 , 1992  ,  for the 19th pick  in  the 1992 NFL Draft .
favre  became the  पैकर्स  ' starting quarterback in the fourth  खेल   of   the   1992   ऋतु   ,  stepping in for injured  क्वार्टरबैक  Don Majkowski ,  और   प्रारंभ  every  खेल  through the 2007  ऋतु   .
He  थी   traded   to   the   नई   यॉर्क  Jets and started at  क्वार्टरबैक   लिये  the  2008  season before  हस्ताक्षर  with  the  Vikings on August 18 , 2009  as  their  starting  quarterback .
he   बना   an  NFL record  297   लगातार  starts ( 321 including  playoffs   )   .
He is  the   तभी   खिलाड़ी   to   जीत  the AP  सबसे  Valuable  खिलाड़ी  three consecutive times  (  1995–97  )   .
He  रै  led  टीमों  to  आठ   प्रभाग  championships ( 1995  ,   1996  , 1997 ,  2002   ,  2003  ,  2004  ,  2007 , 2009 ) , five NFC  चैंपियनशिप  Games  (  1995 , 1996 , 1997  ,  2007 , 2009 ) , and  दो  Super Bowl  दिखावे  (  सुपर  Bowl XXXI  ,  Super Bowl  xxxii   )  , winning one (  सुपर  Bowl XXXI  )  .
He  holds   अनेक   एनएफएल  records  ,  including most career touchdown passes , most career passing  गज   ,   सबसे   करियर  pass completions  ,   सबसे   करियर  pass attempts  ,  most career  interceptions   thrown  , most  लगातार  starts by a  खिलाड़ी  ,  सबसे  consecutive starts  by   a  quarterback ,  सबसे  career victories  as   a   starting   क्वार्टरबैक   ,   सबसे   बर्खास्त   ,  and  सबसे   fumbles   .
He  is  also referred  to   by  his  उपनाम   ``   the   gunslinger  ''  .
Salesforce.com Inc.  is   a  global  एंटरप्राइज़  software company  headquartered  in San Francisco , California  .
हालांकि   बेहतरीन  known  लिये  its  ग्राहक   संबंध  management  (  CRM )  उत्पाद   ,  Salesforce  रै  also expanded into  the  ``  सोशल   एंटरप्राइज़  arena '' through acquisitions .
it  is currently ranked the most innovative  कम्पनी   in   अमेरिका  by  फोर्ब्स   पत्रिका   ,   as  well as number 27  in  Fortunes magazine 's 100 Best Companies to  कार्य  For in 2012  .
as   of  April  2013   ,  the  कम्पनी   is  ranked sixth in  providing  services in marketing and customer service  स्वचालन   .
It is listed  on   the  New  यॉर्क   भण्डार   एक्सचेंज  and  is   a  constituent of the S  &   p  500  अनुक्रमणिका  .
seahorse  is the title  दिए  to  54  species of marine  मछली   in  the genus Hippocampus .
`` Hippocampus  ''  comes from  the  Ancient  यूनानी   hippos  meaning `` horse  ''   और  kampos  अर्थ   ``  sea  दानव   ''   .
Earth  is  the third  ग्रह  from  the  Sun , and the  densest  and fifth-largest  of   the  eight  ग्रह   in  the Solar  प्रणाली  .
It is  भी   the   largest  of the Solar  प्रणाली   's   चार  terrestrial planets  .
it   is   sometimes  referred to  as   the  world  or   the   ब्लू   ग्रह  .
धरती  formed approximately 4.54  अरब   सालो  ago , and  जीवन  appeared on its surface  भीतर  its first  अरब   सालो  .
Earth 's  जीवमंडल  then significantly  altered  the atmospheric  और  other basic physical  शर्तें  ,  जिससे   सक्रिय   the  proliferation  of   जीवों  as  खूब  as the formation of  the   ओज़ोन   परत  , which together with  धरती   's  magnetic field blocked  नुकसानदेह   सौर  radiation  ,  and  permitted  formerly  ocean-confined  life to move safely to land  .
The  शारीरिक  properties of the  धरती  ,  as   खूब  as its  geological   इतिहास   और  orbit  ,   have  allowed life to persist .
Estimates  on  how  much  longer the  ग्रह  will  be   समर्थ  to continue to  support  life  दायरा  from  ,   to  as long as .
Earth  's  lithosphere  is   विभाजित   into   अनेक   rigid  segments , or tectonic  प्लेटों   ,  that migrate across  the  surface over  अवधि   of   अनेक  millions  of   सालो  .
About 71 % of  the  surface is  covered  by salt water  महासागर  , with  the  remainder consisting  of   महाद्वीपों  and islands which  साथ   have  many  झीलों   और  other sources  of  water that  योगदान  to  the   जलमंडल   .
Earth 's poles are mostly covered with ice  कि   is  the  ठोस  ice of the  अंटार्कटिक   बर्फ  sheet  और   the   समुद्र   बर्फ   कि   is  the  ध्रुवीय   बर्फ   पैक  .
the  planet 's interior  remains   क्रियाशील   ,   साथ   a  solid  आयरन  inner  कोर   ,   a   द्रव   बाहरी   कोर   कि   generates  the  चुम्बकीय  field , and  a  thick layer of relatively  ठोस  mantle  .
Earth gravitationally  interacts  with other  वस्तुएँ  in space ,  विशेषकर   the   सूर्य   और   the  Moon  .
दौरान  one orbit  around   the  Sun , the Earth rotates about  इसके  own  अक्ष  366.26 times  ,   बनाना  365.26 solar  दिनों  ,  or   एक   sidereal  year  .
The  धरती  's  अक्ष  of rotation is tilted 23.4°  दूर  from the perpendicular  of  its  कक्षीय  plane , producing seasonal variations on  the   ग्रह   's  surface with a  काल   of   एक  tropical year  (  365.24  सौर  days )  .
the  Moon is Earth 's  तभी  natural satellite .
It began  orbiting   the  Earth  परिचय  .
The Moon 's gravitational  बातचीत   साथ  Earth stimulates ocean  tides   ,  stabilizes the  अक्षीय  tilt ,  और  gradually slows the  ग्रह  's  रोटेशन  .
The  ग्रह  is home  to  millions  of   प्रजाति  of  जीवन  , including humans .
Both  the  mineral  संसाधन  of the  ग्रह   और   the  products  of   the  biosphere  योगदान  resources  कि  are  प्रयुक्त   to   support  a global human population .
ये  inhabitants are  grouped  into about 200  स्वतंत्र   sovereign   राज्य   ,   जिससे  interact through  कूटनीति  ,  सफर  , trade  ,   और  military action  .
Human cultures have developed many views  of  the planet ,  सहित   इसके   personification  as  a  planetary deity  ,   इसके   आकार  as flat , its  स्थिति  as  the  center  of   the  universe , and in  the   आधुनिक   gaia   principle  , as a  सिंगल   ,   self-regulating  organism  in  its own right .
the   जादूगर   इससे   the   waite-smith  tarot , who  is   चित्रित  using  the  same tools that modern Wiccans  उपयोग  .
In  the   neopagan   धर्म  of  wicca   ,   a  range of  जादुई   टूल्स  are used in ritual practice  .
Each of  ये  tools has different  उपयोग  and  एसोसिएशन   ,   और   हैं   प्रयुक्त   primarily  to direct  जादुई  energies .
वे   हैं  used  at  an altar ,  अंदर  a magic circle .
in  traditional  gardnerian   wicca   ,  the tools are  प्रायः  divided into  निजी   टूल्स  , which are  लिये  use  by   ,  and owned by , an individual Wiccan , and coven tools  ,  used collectively by the coven .
इस   अभ्यास  may  derive  partly  इससे   masonic  traditions  (   ऐसे  as  the   उपयोग  of  the  Square  और   compasses  )  ,  from which  wicca  draws  कुछ  material  ,   और  partly from the rituals of the Hermetic  अनुक्रम  of  the  Golden Dawn .
the  latter made  much  use  of   सामग्री  from medieval grimoires such as  the  Key  of  Solomon  ,   जिससे  has many illustrations of magical  टूल्स  and  निर्देश  for their  तैयारी  .
Typical eukaryotic cell .
सेल्यूलर   श्वसन  is  the  set  of   the  metabolic  प्रतिक्रियाएँ   और  processes that  लो  place in  the   कोशिकाएं   of  organisms to convert biochemical energy  इससे  nutrients into adenosine triphosphate  (  ATP  )  , and  तब  release waste products  .
The reactions  शामिल  in respiration are catabolic reactions , which  ब्रेक  large  अणुओं   into   छोटी  ones ,  releasing  energy in the process  as  weak so-called `` high-energy  ''  bonds  हैं  replaced by stronger bonds  in  the products  .
Respiration is  एक  of the key ways a cell  gains   उपयोगी  energy to fuel cellular activity .
Cellular respiration is  माना  an exothermic redox reaction .
the  overall  प्रतिक्रिया  is broken  into   अनेक  smaller ones  जब   it  occurs  in   the  body  ,  most of which  हैं  redox  प्रतिक्रियाएँ   themselves  .
हालांकि   technically  , cellular respiration  is  a combustion reaction  ,  it  clearly  does  नहीं   resemble   एक  when it occurs in a living cell  .
This  अंतर   is  because it occurs in  अनेक   पृथक   कदम  .
While the  overall  reaction is a combustion reaction  ,   no  single reaction that comprises it  is  a  दहन  reaction  .
Nutrients that are  commonly  used  by  animal and  संयंत्र   कोशिकाएं  in  श्वसन   शामिल  sugar , amino acids and  वसीय  acids , and a common  oxidizing  agent ( electron acceptor  )  is molecular oxygen  (  O2 )  .
The  उर्जा  stored in ATP  (  its  तीसरा  phosphate  समूह  is  weakly   बंधुआ  to  the   बाकी   of  the molecule and  is   cheaply   टूटा  allowing stronger  bonds  to form ,  thereby   transferring  energy for use by  the  cell )  can   तब  be used  to  drive  प्रक्रियाओं  requiring energy  ,  including biosynthesis , locomotion  or   परिवहन  of  अणुओं   आरपार  cell  झिल्लियों  .
A  stored-pressure  fire extinguisher made by Amerex
A British fire  extinguisher   साथ  ID sign  ,  call  पाइंट  and fire  कार्रवाई  sign
a  fire  extinguisher   ,  flame extinguisher ,  or  simply an  extinguisher  , is  an   क्रियाशील  fire protection device used to extinguish  or   कंट्रोल   छोटी  fires  ,  often in emergency  परिस्थितियों   .
it   is  not intended  लिये   उपयोग  on  an   out-of-control  fire ,  ऐसे  as one  जिससे  has reached the ceiling , endangers the  उपयोक्ता   (  i.e. ,  no  escape  रूट  ,  धुँआ   ,   विस्फोट   जोखिम  , etc . ) , or  वरना   requires   the   विशेषज्ञता   of  a  आग  department .
Typically , a  आग  extinguisher consists of  a   hand-held  cylindrical  दबाव  vessel  containing   an   एजेंट  which can be discharged  to  extinguish a fire .
In the United States , fire extinguishers , in  सब  buildings  अन्य  than houses  ,   हैं   generally  required  to  be  सर्विस   और   inspected  by  a   आग   सुरक्षा  service  कम्पनी  at  तनिक  annually  .
Some jurisdictions  आवश्यकता  more frequent service  लिये  fire extinguishers .
The servicer places  a  tag on the extinguisher  to  indicate the type of service  performed  ( annual  निरीक्षण   ,  recharge , new  आग  extinguisher ) and  जब  .
वहीँ  are two  प्रमुख  types  of   आग   extinguishers   :  stored  दबाव  and cartridge-operated .
In  भंडारित  pressure units , the expellant  is  stored in the  वही   कक्ष  as  the   firefighting  agent itself  .
depending   on   the  agent  प्रयुक्त  , different  propellants  are used  .
साथ  dry chemical  extinguishers  ,  नाइट्रोजन  is  typically  used ;  जल  and  झाग   extinguishers  typically use  एयर  .
Stored pressure  आग  extinguishers are the most common  प्रकार  .
cartridge-operated   extinguishers  contain  the   expellant   गैस  in a  पृथक  cartridge  कि   is  punctured prior  to   निर्वहन   ,   exposing   the  propellant to the  extinguishing  agent .
इस  type  is  not as  आम  , used primarily in areas such  as   औद्योगिक   सुविधाएं  ,  जहाँ  they  प्राप्त   higher-than-average  use .
They  have  the  लाभ  of simple and  संकेत  recharge ,  allowing   an  operator  to  discharge  the  extinguisher , recharge  it  , and return to  the   आग  in  a  reasonable  राशि   of   समय   .
Unlike  भंडारित   दबाव  types  ,  these  extinguishers   उपयोग  compressed  कार्बन  dioxide instead  of   नाइट्रोजन   ,   हालांकि   नाइट्रोजन  cartridges are  प्रयुक्त   on  low temperature  (  -60 rated ) models  .
कार्ट्रिज  operated  extinguishers  are  उपलब्धियाँ  in dry  रासायनिक  and  शुष्क  powder types in the U.S. and in  जल   ,  wetting agent , foam ,  शुष्क  chemical  (  classes ABC and  b.c  . )  ,  and  शुष्क  powder (  क्लास  D  )  types in the  बाकी   of  the world .
आग  extinguishers are  further  divided  into  handheld and  cart-mounted  ,  भी  called  wheeled  extinguishers  .
हैंडहेल्ड  extinguishers weigh  इससे   0.5  to 14  गामा  (  1   to  30  पाउंड  ) ,  और   हैं   hence  , easily portable by  हाथ  .
Cart-mounted units typically weigh 23+  गामा   (  50+ pounds )  .
These wheeled models are most  commonly   मिला   at   निर्माण   साइट  , airport runways , heliports , as well as  docks  and marinas .
देशी  Americans  in  the  संयुक्त  States  हैं  the  स्वदेशी  peoples in  उत्तर  America within the  सीमाएँ   of   the  present-day  महाद्वीपीय   संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  अलास्का   ,  and the island state of Hawaii .
They are composed  of  numerous  ,  distinct  देशी   अमरीकी   जनजातियों  and ethnic  समूह   ,  many of  जिससे  survive as intact  राजनैतिक   समुदायों   .
The terms used  to   refer  to Native Americans  have   महरूम   विवादास्पद  .
according  to  a   1995   u.S.  Census Census_Bureau Bureau Census_Bureau  नियत  of home interviews  ,  most of  the  respondents with an  expressed  preference refer  to   themselves   as  American Indians (  or   बस  Indians  )   ,   और  this term has been adopted  by  major  अखबारों   और   कुछ  academic  समूह  ; however ,  इस  term does  नहीं   typically  include Native Hawaiians or certain  अलास्कन  Natives ,  ऐसे  as  aleut  , Yup'ik  ,  or Inuit peoples .
Since the end of  the  15th century , the  माइग्रेशन  of  europeans   to  the  americas   ,  and their importation  of   africans  as slaves  ,   रै  led  to  centuries of conflict  और  adjustment  between   बूढ़ा  and  नई   संसार  societies .
Europeans created  सबसे   of  the  जल्दी  written  ऐतिहासिक  record about  देशी  Americans  बाद   the   colonists  ' immigration to  the  Americas .
अनेक   देशी  Americans lived as  hunter-gatherer  societies  और   बताई  their histories by  मौखिक   परंपराओं   .
in  many groups  ,  women carried  आउट  sophisticated cultivation  of   numerous  varieties of staple  फसलों  : maize  ,  beans and squash .
The indigenous cultures were  काफी   अलग  from  those  of the  कृषिक  ,  proto-industrial   ,  mostly Christian  आप्रवासियों  from western  यूरेशिया   .
Many Native cultures  यहूद   matrilineal  ;  the  people occupied  lands  for  उपयोग  of  the  entire  जातियाँ  ,  लिये  hunting or agriculture  .
Europeans  at  that time had patriarchal cultures  और   था   विकसित  concepts of  व्यक्तिगत   प्रॉपर्टी  rights  साथ   आदर  to  जमीन   कि  were  अत्यधिक  different .
The differences  in  cultures between the  स्थापित  Native Americans  और   अप्रवासी   europeans  ,  as  well as  shifting  alliances  among  different  राष्ट्र  of each  संस्कृति  through  the  centuries  ,   caused   extensive  political tension , ethnic violence  और   सोशल  disruption .
The  देशी  Americans  suffered   ऊँची  fatalities from the  सम्पर्क  with infectious  यूरेशियाई  diseases , to which they had no  acquired   प्रतिरक्षण   .
Epidemics  बाद  European  सम्पर्क  caused  the   महानतम   घाटा  of life for indigenous populations .
Estimates of  the  pre-Columbian population of  कया   आज   constitutes  the  u.S.  vary significantly , ranging from 1  लाख   to  18 million  .
बाद   the   colonies   revolted  against  ग्रेट  Britain and established the United States of America  ,  President George Washington and  हेनरी   नॉक्स  conceived of the  विचार   of  `` civilizing '' Native Americans  in   तैयारी  for  सम्मिलन   as  U.S. citizens .
सम्मिलन  ( whether  voluntary  as with the Choctaw , or forced )  became  a  सतत   नीति  through American administrations  .
During the 19th  सदी  ,  the   विचारधारा   of   manifest  destiny  became  integral to the American  राष्ट्रवादी  movement .
विस्तार   of   european-american  populations  to   the  west after the American Revolution resulted in  increasing  pressure  on   देशी   अमरीकी  lands , warfare  between  the groups , and rising  तनाव   .
In  1830   ,   the   u.S.   कॉंग्रेस  passed the  भारतीय  Removal Act  ,   authorizing  the  सरकारी   to   relocate   देशी  Americans  इससे  their homelands  भीतर  established states  to  lands  वेस्ट   of  the Mississippi River ,  accommodating  European-American expansion  .
the   पहला  European  अमेरिकी  to encounter  the  western  आंतरिक   जनजातियों   यहूद  generally  फर   व्यापारियों   और  trappers  .
There were  भी  Jesuit  प्रचारकों   क्रियाशील  in  the  Northern  टियर  .
As United States expansion reached  into  the  अमरीकी   वेस्ट   ,  settler  और   खनिक   प्रवासियों   आए  into increasing  विरोध  with  the  Great Basin ,  ग्रेट   मैदान  ,  और  other Western tribes .
ये  were complex  nomadic  cultures based  on   घोड़ा  culture and seasonal bison hunting .
They  carried  out  दमदार  resistance  to  United States  incursions   in  the  दशकों  after the American Civil  युद्ध  , in a series  of  Indian  युद्धों   ,   जिससे  were  बारंबार  up until  the   1890s  ,  लकिन  continued into the  20th  century  .
the  transcontinental railroad brought more non-Natives into  जनजातीय  land in the  वेस्ट  .
Over  समय  ,  the  U.S.  मजबूर   a   श्रेणी  of treaties and land cessions  by  the tribes , and  स्थापित   रिज़र्वेशन   लिये  them in many  पश्चिमी  states .
U.S.  एजेंटों  encouraged Native Americans to adopt European-style farming and similar pursuits  ,  but  european-american  agricultural technology of the  समय  was inadequate  लिये   प्रायः   शुष्क  reservation lands .
In 1924  ,  Native  अमेरिकी  who were  नहीं  already U.S. citizens  यहूद  granted  नागरिकता   by   कॉंग्रेस  .
समकालीन   देशी  Americans  have  a  अद्वितीय  relationship with the United  राज्य  because they may be members of nations  ,  tribes , or  bands  with sovereignty and treaty rights  .
सेंट्रल  America  (   )  is the central geographic  प्रदेश  of  the  Americas .
it   is   the   southernmost   ,  isthmian portion of the North American  महाद्वीप   ,  which connects with  दक्षिण   अमेरिका  on  the   southeast  .
जब  considered  भाग  of  the   एकीकृत   महाद्वीपीय  model , it is  माना  a subcontinent .
Central America  consists   of   सात   देशों  : Belize  ,  Costa Rica , El  साल्वाडोर  ,  ग्वाटेमाला   ,  Honduras  ,  Nicaragua  ,  and Panama  .
सेंट्रल  America is part of the  mesoamerican  biodiversity hotspot  ,  which extends  इससे  northern Guatemala through  सेंट्रल   पनामा   .
It is bordered by Mexico to  the  north  ,  the Caribbean  समुद्र   to  the  ईस्ट  ,  the  North Pacific Ocean to the west  ,  and  कोलंबिया  to the south-east  .
Central  अमेरिका   is  an area of  ,  or almost 0.1 %  of   the  Earth 's  सतह   .
As of 2009 , its population  थी  estimated at  41,739,000   .
It  रै  a  घनत्व  of 77 people per square kilometer .
scrubs  is an  अमरीकी   चिकित्सा  comedy-drama  टेलीविज़न   श्रेणी  created  by   विधेयक  Lawrence  कि  aired  इससे  October  2  , 2001 to  कूच  17 ,  2010  on  एनबीसी  and later  एबीसी  .
The series follows the lives of employees at  the  fictional  पवित्र   दिल   शिक्षण  hospital .
the  title is  a   खेल  on surgical  scrubs   और  a term  लिये  a low-ranking  व्यक्ति   क्युकी  at the beginning of  the   श्रेणी   ,  most  of  the  प्रमुख  characters were medical  interns   .
The  श्रेणी   सुविधाएँ  fast-paced screenplay , slapstick  ,  and surreal vignettes presented mostly  as  the daydreams of the  सेंट्रल   अक्षर  ,  dr.   जॉन   ``  J.D .  ''
Dorian  ,   जो   is   निभाई   by   zach  Braff .
अभिनेताओं  starring alongside  braff   in  the  पहला  eight  सीज़न  included  सारा   chalke  , Donald  faison  , Neil Flynn , Ken  जेनकींस   ,  John C.  mcginley  and Judy Reyes .
The series  रै   भी  featured multiple guest appearances  by   फिल्मी  actors , such as Brendan Fraser  ,  Heather Graham ,  और  Colin  farrell  .
In  the  ninth season ,  अनेक   नई   डाल   सदस्यों   यहूद   introduced  and  the  show setting  स्थानांतरित   इससे   a   हॉस्पिटल  to  a  medical school .
आउट   of   the  original  डाल  , only Braff , Faison  और  McGinley  became  regular cast members , while the  अन्य  with the exception of  रेयेस  , made guest  दिखावे   .
braff   appeared  in  छह  episodes  of  the ninth  ऋतु  before departing  .
केरी   bishé  ,  eliza   कूप   ,   डेव  Franco  और  Michael Mosley became series regulars with Bishé  बनने   the  show 's new  narrator  .
scrubs   premiered  on  अक्तूबर   2   ,  2001 on NBC .
The series received  a  Peabody  पुरस्कार   in  2006 .
During  the  seventh  ऋतु   ,  NBC announced  कि  it  होता   नहीं   नवीनीकृत  the show .
shortly   बाद  the seventh  ऋतु   finale  ,  एबीसी  announced it had  उठाई   up  the eighth  ऋतु  of  the   श्रेणी   ,  which  began  January 6  ,   2009   .
the  ninth  ऋतु   premiered  on December 1 ,  2009  .
on  May 14  ,   2010   ,  ABC  घोषित  it had officially  रद्द  Scrubs .
An  1817  Boulton  &  Watt beam  झोंके  engine ,  प्रयुक्त  in Netherton at the  ironworks  of  m  W Grazebrook .
re-erected   on  the  a38   (  M  )   in  Birmingham , UK
A  भाप  engine is a heat engine that performs mechanical  कार्य  using steam as its  working   द्रव  .
Using boiling water  to  produce mechanical  गति  goes  वापस  about  2,000   सालो   ,  but  जल्दी  devices  यहूद   नहीं  practical  .
Since  the  late 1700s steam engines  have   become  a  प्रमुख  source of  mechanical   शक्ति  .
the  first applications were  निकालना   जल  from  खानों  .
in  1781 James Watt  patented   a   भाप  engine that produced continuous  rotative   गति   .
These  10  hp  इंजन   सक्रिय   a   चौड़ी   दायरा   of  manufacturing machinery  to  be powered .
the  engines could  be  sited  anywhere   कि   जल  and  कोयले  or  लकडी   ईंधन  could be obtained .
By 1883 , engines that could provide  10,000  hp  था  become  feasible  .
Steam engines  could  also  be  applied to vehicles such as traction  इंजन   और  the railway  इंजनों  which are commonly just  पुकारा  steam  इंजन  outside America .
The stationary  भाप  engine was  a  key  घटक  of the  औद्योगिक  Revolution  ,   allowing   कारखानों   to   locate   जहाँ  water power  थी  unavailable  .
Today steam  turbines   generate  about 90 % of the electric  शक्ति   in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  using  a   किस्में   of   ऊष्मा   स्त्रोत  .
भाप  engines  हैं  external combustion engines  ,  where the  working  fluid is separate  इससे  the combustion  उत्पाद   .
Non-combustion  ऊष्मा  sources  ऐसे  as  सौर   शक्ति  , nuclear power  or   geothermal  energy may be used .
The  आदर्श   ऊष्मागतिक   साईकिल  used to  analyze  this process is called the  rankine   साईकिल  .
in  the  साईकिल   ,  water is  heated  into steam in  a  boiler until  it  reaches  a  high pressure .
When expanded through  पिस्टन्स  or turbines ,  mechanical   कार्य  is done  .
the   reduced-pressure  steam is  तब   सघन   और   उत्तेजित  back  into  the boiler  .
In  सामान्य  usage ,  the  term  भाप   इंजन   can  refer to either the  एकीकृत  steam  पौधे   (  including boilers etc  .   )  such  as  railway steam  इंजनों  and  पोर्टेबल   इंजन  , or  may   refer   to  the piston  or   टर्बाइन   मशीनरी  alone , as  in   the  beam  इंजन   और  stationary steam  इंजन   .
Specialized devices such as  भाप  hammers and  भाप   pile  drivers are dependent  on  steam  supplied  from a  पृथक   बॉयलर   .
A mill engine  इससे   stott  Park  bobbin  Mill , Cumbria  ,   इंग्लैण्ड
A steam locomotive in Germany .This  क्लास  of engine was  निर्मित  in  1942  – 1950 and operated commercially  जबतक  1988 .
``  Move  कुतिया  ''  (  edited version titled `` Move B***h '' or simply ``  मूव   ''  ) is the third official single from rapper Ludacris  '   एल्बम  Word of  mouf   .
the  single features  mystikal  and  i-20  .
The single  पहुँचे  # 10 on the Billboard  hot  100 making it Ludacris 's first top  टेन   hit  on the chart  ,  it also reached # 3 on  hot   रैप   ट्रैक्स   और   #  3 on Hot R &  b/hip-hop  Singles  &   ट्रैक्स   .
Puerto Rican  reggaeton  duo  maicol  &  मैनुएल  sampled the song  on  `` Hoy Me  levanté  '' on their 2002 release Yakaleo .
the  song  is   भी  featured in episode 2 , Series One of British  टीन   comedy/drama   खालें  .
The  सोंग   थी  also used  by  World  कुश्ती  Entertainment  superstar  Montel Vontavious Porter during his short  कार्यावधि   in   रिंग   of  Honor .
It was also used  लिये  April  शिकारी  in  विभिन्न  Independent  circuits   .
it  was  प्रदर्शित  in  the  movie  atl  starring T.I  .  , and  '   hancock  , '  हालांकि   in  the  latter  ,  the  clean  संस्करण  was used .
A snippet  of   the  song is  निभाई  during  ट्रैफ़िक  reports on many radio stations ,  प्रायः  carrying an  urban/hip-hop  format .
रिटायर्ड  NBA star and now ESPN  विश्लेषक  Jalen  रोज़  is  प्रदर्शित  in the music video  .
The song  रै  been  covered  by rock band  प्रारंभ  Trouble ,  on  their album Every  समाधान  Has Its  प्रॉब्लम   .
It was featured  on  British sitcom The  inbetweeners  when the characters Jay  और  Neil took  होगा   on  a 'pussy  पैट्रोल   '  in Jay  's  red Nissan Micra .
it   थी  sampled by  लड़की  Talk on  the   पहला  track of  उसके  album All  दिन  , ``  oh   no  '' .
Elizabeth  ii  ( Elizabeth  एलेक्जेंड्रा   मरियम  ;  born  21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of  16  sovereign states  ,  known  as  the Commonwealth  realms  ,  और   उनके  territories  और  dependencies  ,  and head  of  the  54-member  Commonwealth of  राष्ट्र  .
She is  परम्   राज्यपाल  of  the   गिरिजाघर  of  इंग्लैण्ड  and , in  कुछ  of her  realms  ,  carries   the  title  of  Defender of  the   आस्था  as part  of   उसके  full title  .
on  her accession  on  6  फ़रवरी   1952  ,  एलिज़ाबेथ   became   सिर   of   the  Commonwealth and  महारानी  regnant  of   सात  independent Commonwealth  देशों  : the  संयुक्त   किंगडम   ,   कनाडा   ,   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , New Zealand  ,  South Africa , Pakistan and  ceylon   .
इससे   1956  to  1992  , the  क्रमांक  of  उसके   realms   varied  as territories gained  स्वतंत्रता  and some realms became republics  .
at  present , in addition to  the   पहला  four aforementioned countries , Elizabeth is Queen of  जमैका  , Barbados  ,  the  बहामा  , Grenada , Papua New Guinea ,  the   सुलेमान  Islands ,  तुवालू  , Saint  लूसिया   ,   संत  Vincent and the  grenadines   ,  Belize  ,   अण्टीगुआ  and Barbuda  और   संत   किट्स   और   नेविस   .
उसके   शासनकाल   of   सालो  is  फिलहाल  the  दूसरी   longest  for  a  British monarch ; only  महारानी  Victoria  रै   reigned  longer  at  over 63 years .
Elizabeth  थी   born  in  लंदन   और   शिक्षित  privately at  घर   .
Her father acceded to the  सिंहासन   as   जार्ज  VI  in  1936 on the  abdication  of his brother Edward VIII , from which time she  थी  the heir  presumptive  .
She  began   to   undertake  public duties during the Second World  युद्ध  ,  in  which she served  in   the  Auxiliary Territorial Service .
in  1947 , she married Prince  फिलिप  , Duke of Edinburgh  ,   साथ   जिसको   वो   रै  four  children   :  Charles  ,  Anne ,  एंड्रयू   ,  and Edward .
Her  राजतिलक  service  took  place  in   1953   और  was the  पहला  to be  televised  .
The Queen  's  many  ऐतिहासिक  visits and meetings  शामिल  a  राज्य   विज़िट  to the Republic of Ireland and  reciprocal   विज़िट   to  and  इससे  the Pope  .
The  महारानी  has seen major  संवैधानिक  changes in her realms  ,  such as  devolution   in  the United Kingdom  और   the  patriation  of  the Canadian constitution .
टाइम्स  of  निजी  significance  have  included  the  births and marriages  of  her children  ,  the  births  of  उसके  grandchildren  ,   the  investiture of the  प्रिंस  of Wales , and the celebration  of  milestones  ऐसे  as her Silver  ,  Golden  ,  and  डायमंड  Jubilees in  1977   ,  2002 ,  और  2012 , respectively .
प्रमुख  events  in  the  महारानी  's reign  have  included  the   परेशानियों   in  Northern Ireland ,  the  Falklands War  ,  wars with Iraq and the  युद्ध  in Afghanistan .
There  have   महरूम   टाइम्स   of  personal  विषाद   लिये  her  जिससे  include  the  death of her  पिता  at 56 ,  the  assassination of  प्रिंस  Philip  's   ताऊ  ,  रब   माउंटबेटन   ,  the breakdown of  उसके   children  's marriages  in   1992  ( a year deemed  उसके   annus   horribilis  ) , the  मौत  in 1997 of  उसके  former  daughter-in-law  ,  डायना  , Princess of  वेल्स  , and the deaths  of  her mother  और   सिस्टर  in 2002 .
The  महारानी  has occasionally faced severe press criticism  of   the   royal   परिवार   और   रिपब्लिकन   sentiments   ,   लकिन   support   लिये  the  साम्राज्य   और  her  निजी   लोकप्रियता  remain high  .
Christianity is  the  largest religion listed  by   australians  in the  नेशनल  census .
In the 2011  जनसांख्यिकी   ,   61.1   %   of  Australians were listed as Christian  .
Australia has no official  राज्य  religion  और  the Australian Constitution protects freedom  of  religion .
the   उपस्थिति  of Christianity in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   began   साथ   the   आगमन   of   the  First Fleet of British convicts  in  1788 .
The religion grew to account for  96.1  % of the national  जनसांख्यिकी  at the  समय   of   the  Federation  of  Australia in  1901  .
The Anglican Church of  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   (   formerly  known  as  the Church  of   इंग्लैण्ड  in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   )   remained  the  largest  denomination  जबतक  1986 ,  जब   it  was surpassed  by  the  रोमन  Catholic  गिरिजाघर  in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
post-war  multiculturalism and a decline in religious observance  among   कुछ  sections  of  the population  have   diversified  the demographics of religion in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   .
of  the  roughly  61 %  identifying  as Christian in  2011   ,  the largest denominations  यहूद   either  Roman Catholic  (  25 % )  or  Anglican  (   17  % ) ,  साथ  the  तीसरा   largest  denomination being  the  5 % affiliated with the Uniting  गिरिजाघर  in Australia  .
post-war  immigration has  grown  the  संख्याएँ   belonging   to   चर्च  like the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese  of  Australia  और   वहीँ   हैं  large and  growing  Pentecostal  समूह  ,  ऐसे   as  Sydney  's  Hillsong  गिरिजाघर  .
The  त्यौहार  of Easter and  क्रिसमस   हैं  public  छुट्टियाँ  in Australia  .
around  a quarter  of   विद्यार्थी  attend church  स्कूलों  and Christian organisations are leading non-government providers of health and  welfare  services  through  organisations like  कैथोलिक   स्वास्थ्य  Australia , Anglicare , UnitingCare  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   ,  the  मोक्ष  Army and St Vincent de  पॉल  Society  .
Historically  significant   ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  Christians have included Rev  dr  John Dunmore  लैंग  , Saint  मरियम  MacKillop ,  कैथरीन  Helen  spence  ,  पादरी  David Unaipon  ,  the  रेवरेंड   जॉन  Flynn and  पादरी  Sir Doug Nicholls  .
High  प्रोफ़ाइल  contemporary  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  Christians include :  टिम  Costello Baptist minister  और  current  सीईओ   of  World Vision  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   ,  Frank Brennan  ,   जेसुइट  human  अधिकारों  lawyer  ,  Cardinal  जार्ज  Pell ,  कैथोलिक  Archbishop of  सिडनी  , Phillip Aspinall the current Anglican Primate  और   archbishop  of  ब्रिसबेन  , Kevin Rudd  ,   पूर्व  Labor Prime Minister  ,  and Tony Abbott , leader  लिये   the  Federal  विपक्ष  Liberal  पार्टी   .
Charter  बनाना   कॉलेजिएट  School ,  जिससे  became Yale  कॉलेज  , October  9  , 1701
Yale University  is  a private Ivy League research  विश्वविद्यालयों   स्तिथ   in   नई   हेवन  ,  कनेक्टिकट  .
संस्थापित  in 1701 in  the   उपनिवेश  of  कनेक्टिकट   ,   the  university is the third-oldest  संस्था  of  उच्चतर  education  in  the United  राज्य   .
Originally chartered  as  the `` Collegiate  स्कूल   ''   ,  the  संस्था  traces its roots to 17th-century clergymen  जो  sought to establish a college  to  train clergy and political leaders for  the  colony .
in   1718  ,  the  College  थी  renamed `` Yale College ''  to  honor a  तोहफा  from Elihu  yale   ,  a governor  of   the  British  ईस्ट   इण्डिया   कम्पनी   .
in   1861  , the Graduate  स्कूल  of Arts  और   sciences   became  the first U.S. institution  to  award the PhD  .   yale   became   a  founding  सदस्य  of the  संघ  of  अमरीकी   विश्वविद्यालयों  in  1900  .
yale   कॉलेज   थी  transformed ,  शुरूआत  in the  1930s  ,  through  the establishment of residential colleges : 12 now exist  और  two  अधिक   हैं  planned .
yale   employs   over  1,100 faculty to teach  और   सलाह  about  5,300   undergraduate  and 6,100 graduate and professional students  .
Almost all tenured professors  सिखा   undergraduate  courses , more than  2,000   of   जिससे  are offered  annually   .
The University 's assets  शामिल   an   endowment  valued  at   $  19.4 billion  ,  the  second-largest   of   कोई   अकादमिक  institution in the  संसार  .
Yale  's   प्रणाली   of   अधिक   than   दो   दर्जन  libraries holds  12.5  million volumes .
49  Nobel Laureates have  महरूम  affiliated with the University as students , faculty ,  और   स्टाफ  .
Yale has produced many notable alumni  ,  including five U.S.  राष्ट्रपतियों  ,  19  U.S.  परम्  Court Justices  ,  and several foreign heads of state .
At the graduate level ,  yale  Law School , Yale School of  आर्ट  ,  और  Yale School of Drama are consistently  क्रमित  the  शीर्ष  programs  in  their field .
yale   विधि  School  is  the  सबसे  selective law school in the United States .
Yale students compete  intercollegiately   as   the   yale   bulldogs   in   the  NCAA Division I  आइवी  League .
the  oldest intercollegiate  एथलेटिक   इवेंट   in   the   संयुक्त   राज्य  is the Yale-Harvard regatta .
Artemisia  tridentata   (  `` big sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush ''  )  is an aromatic shrub from the family  asteraceae  ,  जिससे   grows  in  arid  and semi-arid conditions  ,  throughout a range of cold  मरुस्थल   ,  steppe ,  और   पहाड़   habitats   in  the  intermountain   वेस्ट   of  North America  .
The vernacular  नाम   ``   sagebrush  '' is also used  लिये  several  सम्बन्धित   सदस्यों  of the genus  artemisia   ,  such as California  sagebrush   (  Artemisia californica  )  .
Big Sagebrush  और  other Artemisia species are the  प्रबल  plants across large  portions  of the Great Basin , covering some  422,000  square miles in  11  western U.S.  &   कनाडाई  states  .
It  is  the  राज्य  flower  of   नेवाडा  .
Sagebrush provides  खाना   और  habitat for  a  variety of  प्रजाति  , such  as  sage grouse  ,  pronghorn antelope , gray  vireo   ,   सानो  rabbit , and mule  हिरण   .
बिग   sagebrush   थी  used as an  हर्बल   आयुर्विज्ञान  by Native Americans throughout  the   intermountain  West of North America—especially  लिये  preventing infection  in  wounds , stopping internal bleeding  ,  and treating  headaches  and colds .
chemically   ,  the active  औषधीय  constituents  शामिल   camphor  ,  terpenoids  ,  और   tannins  .
Several major threats exist to  ऋषि  brush ecosystems ,  सहित   इंसान  settlements ,  परिवर्तन  to  agricultural   जमीन  ,  पशुधन  grazing , invasive  संयंत्र   प्रजाति  ,  wildfires  , and  जलवायु  change  .
Yahoo ! Mail is a free email service  offered  by the  अमरीकी   ढूंढें   इंजन  company  याहू  !
It  थी  launched  in  1997  ,  and , according to comScore  ,  Yahoo !  मेल  is the third-largest web-based  ईमेल   सेवा  with 281 million users  as   of  December 2012  .
फिलहाल  , Yahoo  !  offers three  संस्करण  of  याहू   !  Mail .
The traditional ``  याहू  !  मेल  Classic ''  continues   the  availability of  the   असली  interface introduced in 1997  .
a  version  introduced  in 2005  शामिल  a new Ajax interface  ,   drag-and-drop   सुविधाएँ   ,  improved  ढूंढें  functionality  ,  keyboard  शॉर्टकट  , address  auto-complete   ,  tabs , and  अन्य  updated  सुविधाएँ  .
in  October 2010  ,   याहू  ! released a  बीटा  version  of  Yahoo  !  Mail ,  जिससे  included improvements to the  डिज़ाइन  , performance , search functionality  ,  and Facebook integration .
In  may   2011   ,  beta  परीक्षण  for  the   नई   संस्करण  stopped ,  और  it became the  डिफॉल्ट   इंटरफ़ेस  for Yahoo !  मेल  .
In early 2008 , Yahoo  !  began  offering   असीमित  mail  भंडार  to its users in response to heated  प्रतियोगिता  in the free web-mail market segment  .
On June 27  ,  2009 ,  याहू   !  Messenger was integrated with  याहू  ! Mail  .
Tacoma  (  , ) is  a  mid-sized urban port city and the  काउंटी   सीट   of  Pierce County  ,   वॉशिंगटन  , United  राज्य  .
The city is on Washington  's   puget  Sound , southwest of Seattle  ,  northeast of  the   राज्य   पूंजी   ,  Olympia ,  और  northwest of Mount Rainier  नेशनल   पार्क  .
the  population was  198,397   ,  according  to  the  2010  census .
टकोमा   is  the second-largest city  in   the  Puget Sound  क्षेत्रफल  and the third largest in  the  state .
Tacoma also serves  as  the center  of   कारोबार  activity  लिये   the  South  ध्वनि   प्रदेश  , which has  a   जनसांख्यिकी   of  around 1  लाख   लोगों  .
टकोमा   अपनाया   इसके   नाम  after the  आसपास   माउंट   rainier   ,   originally  called  माउंट   tahoma   .
It  is  known as  the  `` City of  नियति  '' because  the  area was chosen to  be   the  western terminus  of  the Northern Pacific Railroad in  the  late 19th  सदी   .
The decision of the railroad was influenced by Tacoma 's neighboring deep-water  हार्बर   ,   शुरुआत   खाड़ी  .
By connecting  the  bay  साथ   the  railroad  टकोमा  's motto  became   ``  When rails  मिलें  sails . ''
Today  शुरुआत   खाड़ी  serves  the  Port of Tacoma  ,   a   बीच  of  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   व्यापार   on   the   प्रशांत  Coast  और   वॉशिंगटन  state 's  largest   बंदरगाहों   .
Like most central cities ,  टकोमा  suffered  a   prolonged   मनाही   in  the mid-20th century as  a  result  of   suburbanization  and divestment .
Since  the   1990s   ,   developments   in  the downtown core include the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of  वॉशिंगटन   टकोमा  ;  टकोमा  Link  ,  the first modern electric  लाइट   रेल   सेवा   in   the   राज्य   ;   the  state  's  highest density  of   आर्ट  and  इतिहास   संग्रहालय   ;  and a  लौटी  urban waterfront , the  thea  Foss Waterway .
With a long history of  blue-collar  labor politics  —   इससे   the  railroad workers  of  the 19th  सदी   ,  to  the  longshoremen  of  the  20th   सदी   ,  to the  मजदूर  Ready workers  of  today  —   टकोमा   रै  long been known for its  अशिष्ट  , gritty  चित्र  .
A song about Tacoma ,  ``  Thrice  सब  American '' ,  by  American  singer-songwriter   और  former resident Neko  मामला   ,  describes  it  as `` a dusty  बूढ़ा   गहना  in the South  puget  Sound  /  where  the  factories churn / and  the  timber  's   सब  cut down ''  .
tacoma-pierce  County has been named  एक   of  the  सबसे  livable  क्षेत्रों  in  the  country  .
Tacoma  थी   भी   recently   सूचीबद्ध   as  the 19th  सबसे   walkable   नगर  in the  देश  .
In contrast , the  नगर  is also ranked as  the  most stressed-out city in the  देश  in a  2004   सर्वेक्षण  .
in  2006  ,  women  's  magazine  स्वः  named Tacoma the  ``   सबसे  Sexually  स्वस्थ   नगर  ''  in  the United States .
In  2012   ,   the  Advocate gave Tacoma the title of `` Gayest  नगर  in America  ''   ,   in   भाग   क्युकी  of  the  large  विविधता  of public  कार्यालयों   आयोजित  ,  और  Washington  राज्य  passing a  विधेयक  in 2012 allowing LGBT couples  to   निकाह   .
टकोमा   is  famous for  the   1940   पतन   of  the  टकोमा  Narrows  सेतु  .
Chula  विस्टा  ( ;  )   is  the second  largest  city  in  the  सैन   डिएगो   महानगर  area , the seventh largest  नगर  in  दक्षिणी  California , the  fourteenth  largest  नगर  in the State of California  ,   और  the 77th-largest city in the United  राज्य   .
the   जनसांख्यिकी   थी  243,916 as  of   the  2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
स्तिथ   बस  from downtown San Diego and from the Mexican border in  the   दक्षिण  Bay region  of   the   महानगर   क्षेत्रफल   ,   the  city is at the center of one of  the  richest  आर्थिक  and  culturally   विविध  zones in the United  राज्य   .
Chula Vista is so named  क्युकी  of its scenic location between  the   सैन   डिएगो  Bay  और   तटीय  mountain  foothills  .
Founded  in   the  early 19th century ,  तेज़  population growth has  recently  been observed in  the   नगर   .
As the second largest city  in  San  डिएगो  County ,  chula  Vista has quickly  become   a   गंतव्य  popular to many tourists  .
स्तिथ   in  the city is one  of  America  's   few   year-round  United States Olympic  प्रशिक्षण  centers  और   लोकप्रिय   पर्यटक   गंतव्यों   शामिल   क्रिकेट   बेतार  Amphitheater  ,  the  chula   विस्टा  marina  ,  and  the  Chula  विस्टा   प्रकृति   बीच   .
metes   और   bounds   is  a system  or  method  of  describing  जमीन  ,  रियल  property (  in  contrast to  निजी  property ) or  रियल  estate  .
The system has been used in England  लिये   अनेक   सदियां   ,  and is  स्टिल  used there in  the  definition  of  general  सीमाएँ  .
By  कस्टम   ,  it was  लागू  in the  असली   तेरह   colonies   कि   became  the  संयुक्त  States ,  और  in  अनेक  other  जमीन  jurisdictions  आधारित   on   अंग्रेज़ी  common  विधि   .
Typically  the   प्रणाली   उपयोग   शारीरिक   सुविधाएँ   of  the  लोकल  geography , along  साथ  directions  और  distances ,  to  define  और   describe  the boundaries  of  a  पार्सल   of  land .
The  सीमाएँ  are  वर्णित   in  a  कार्यशील  prose  स्टाइल   ,   working  around the  पार्सल  in  अनुक्रम  , from  a  point of beginning  ,   returning  back  to  the same point ; compare with the oral ritual  of   धड़कन   the  bounds .
It may  शामिल   सन्दर्भ   to  other adjoining  parcels  (  और   उनके   स्वामी   )   ,  and it ,  in   फेरे   ,   could   भी   be   referred  to  in  later  सर्वेक्षण   .
at  the time the  वर्णन  is compiled  ,   it  may have  महरूम  marked  on   the  ground with permanent monuments placed  जहाँ   वहीँ   यहूद  no  उपयुक्त  natural monuments  .
The term `` metes '' refers to  a  boundary  पारिभाषित   by  the measurement of each  सीधा   चलाएं  , specified by a  अलहदा  between  the  terminal points  ,   और   an   अभिविन्यास  or  दिशा  .
A  दिशा   may  be a simple compass  bearing  , or a precise orientation determined by  सटीक  survey  विधि  .
The term `` bounds  ''   refers  to a more general boundary description  ,  such as along a certain watercourse  ,   a  stone wall  ,   an   adjoining  public  सड़क  way  ,  or  an  existing building  .
the  system is  प्रायः  used to define larger  टुकड़े  of property (  e.g  . farms ) , and  राजनैतिक   subdivisions  (  e.g  .  कस्बा   सीमाएँ  ) where  precise  definition  is  not  जरूरी  or would be far  too   महंगी  ,  or   previously   designated   सीमाएँ   can  be incorporated into the description .
सर  Isaac Newton ( 25  दिसम्बर   164220  March 1727 )  थी   an  English physicist and  गणितज्ञ   जो   is   widely  regarded as one of the  सबसे   influential   वैज्ञानिकों   of  all  समय  and as a key figure in  the  scientific revolution .
उसके  book  philosophiæ  Naturalis  प्रिन्सिपिया   mathematica  ( `` Mathematical Principles of  प्राकृतिक  Philosophy '' )  ,   पहला  published in 1687  ,  laid the  मूलाधार  for  सबसे   of  classical  यांत्रिकी  .
न्यूटन   भी   बना   seminal   योगदान  to optics and  साझा   क्रेडिट   साथ   गॉटफ्राइड   लैबनिट्ज़  for the invention  of  the infinitesimal  कलन  .
Newton 's Principia formulated the laws of  गति  and  सार्वभौमिक   gravitation  that dominated scientists  '  view  of  the physical  ब्रह्मांड  for  the  next  तीन   सदियां   .
It also  demonstrated  that  the   गति   of   वस्तुएँ   on   the  Earth  और  that  of  celestial bodies could be  वर्णित  by the same principles .
by  deriving Kepler  's  laws of  ग्रहीय  motion from his mathematical description of  गम्भीरता  , Newton  removed   the   पिछला  doubts about the validity of  the   heliocentric   मॉडल  of the  ब्रह्मांड   .
Newton built the  पहला  practical reflecting telescope  और   विकसित   a  theory of colour  आधारित   on  the observation that a prism decomposes  श्वेत  light  into  the  अनेक  colours of the  दृश्य   वर्णक्रम  .
He  भी   प्रतिपादित  an  अनुभवजन्य   विधि   of  cooling and  पढ़ाई   the  speed of sound  .
In addition  to  his  कार्य  on the calculus , as  a  mathematician Newton contributed to  the  study  of  power series  ,   generalised   the  binomial  प्रमेय  to  non-integer  exponents  ,  and  विकसित  Newton 's method  लिये  approximating  the   जड़ें   of  a function  .
Newton was a fellow of Trinity  कॉलेज  and the  दूसरी   lucasian  Professor of Mathematics  at  the University of Cambridge  .
He was a devout  लकिन  unorthodox  ईसाई   और  , unusually  लिये   a   सदस्य  of the  कैम्ब्रिज   संकाय  ,  he  refused  to   लो   पावन  orders in the  गिरिजाघर  of England , perhaps  क्युकी  he privately  अस्वीकृत   the   doctrine   of  trinitarianism  .
in  addition  to  his work on  the   गणितीय  sciences  ,  Newton also  समर्पित  much of his  समय   to  the study  of  alchemy and  biblical  chronology , but most  of  his work in  those  areas remained  अप्रकाशित  until long after  उसके  death  .
In  उसके  later  जीवन   ,   न्यूटन  became president  of   the   royal  Society .
He  भी  served  the   अंग्रेजों  government  as  Warden  और   निपुण  of the  royal   मिंट  .
Prof.  वाल्टर  Lewin explains Newton 's law of gravitation  in   एमआईटी   कोर्स  8.01
Satellites  और  projectiles all obey Newton 's  विधि  of gravitation
Newton 's  विधि   of  universal gravitation states that  प्रत्येक   पाइंट  mass  in  the  ब्रह्मांड  attracts every other point mass with a force that is directly  आंशिक  to  the   उत्पाद  of their masses and inversely  आंशिक   to   the   वर्गाकार   of  the distance  between   उन्हें  .
(  Separately it was  दिखाया  that  विशाल  spherically symmetrical  masses   आकर्षित   और  are  आकर्षित  as  if  all  उनके  mass were  concentrated  at their centers  .  )
इस  is  a  general  शारीरिक  law derived  इससे  empirical observations  by  what  न्यूटन  called induction .
It is a part  of  classical  यांत्रिकी   और   थी   प्रतिपादित   in  Newton 's work Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia  mathematica  ( ``  the  Principia  ''  ) , first published on  5   जुलाई   1687   .
( When Newton 's book was presented in  1686   to  the Royal Society  ,   रॉबर्ट  Hooke made  a  claim that  न्यूटन  had  प्राप्त  the inverse square law from  उसे  – see History  खण्ड   नीचे  .  )
In modern language , the  विधि  states  the  following:
assuming  SI units , F  is  measured in newtons ( N ) , m1 and m2  in  kilograms  (   kg  )  ,  r in  मीटर  (  m   )   ,   और   the  constant G is approximately equal to  .
The value of  the   निरंतर  G was first  accurately  determined  इससे   the  results  of  the Cavendish experiment conducted by  the   अंग्रेजों   वैज्ञानिक  Henry  कैवेंडिश  in 1798  ,   हालांकि  Cavendish did not himself  गणना  a  numerical  value for G  .
This  प्रयोग   थी  also the  पहला   परीक्षण  of  न्यूटन  's theory  of   gravitation   between   masses  in the laboratory  .
It took  प्लेस  111  सालो  after the publication of Newton  's  Principia  और  71 years after  न्यूटन  's death , so  none  of Newton 's calculations could use  the   मान  of G ; instead he could  तभी   गणना  a  फ़ोर्स  relative  to   another  force  .
Newton  's   विधि   of  gravitation resembles Coulomb  's  law  of  electrical forces ,  जिससे  is used  to  calculate  the  magnitude  of  electrical force between  दो   चार्ज  bodies  .
Both are inverse-square  कानून   ,  in  जिससे  force is inversely proportional to the square of  the   अलहदा   between   the  bodies .
Coulomb 's Law has  the  product of two charges in  प्लेस  of the  उत्पाद   of  the masses ,  और   the  electrostatic  निरंतर  in  प्लेस   of  the  गुरुत्वाकर्षक   निरंतर  .
Newton 's law has  चूंकि  been superseded by Einstein 's  सिद्धान्त  of  सामान्य  relativity  ,  but it  continues  to be used  as  an excellent approximation of  the  effects  of  gravity  .
Relativity is  जरूरी  only  जब   वहीँ   is   a  need  लिये  extreme  परिशुद्धता  , or when dealing  साथ  gravitation  लिये   अत्यधिक  massive  और  dense objects .
श्वेत   और  red  ध्वज  , representing  इराकी  and American deaths , sit in the grass  चतुष्कोण   of   the   घाटी  Library on the Corvallis , Oregon  ,  campus of Oregon State  विश्वविद्यालयों   .
As part of  the   traveling  Iraq Body  गिनती  exhibit from 2008 to 2009 ( not related to  इराकी  Body  गिनती   प्रोजेक्ट  ) ,  the  flags aim to `` raise awareness of the  इंसान  cost of the Iraq  युद्ध  .  ''
(  May 2008 )
Casualties of  the  conflict  in  Iraq  चूंकि  2003  (  beginning with the 2003  आक्रमण  of  इराकी   ,   और  continuing with  the   ensuing   occupation   of  Iraq , as  खूब  as the activities of  the  various armed groups operating in the country  )  have come  in   अनेक  forms , and the accuracy  of  the information available on  अलग   प्रकार  of  इराकी  War casualties varies greatly .
the   तालिका   नीचे  summarizes  विभिन्न  estimates  of   the  Iraqi casualty  आंकड़े   .
लिये  troops  in   the  U.S.-led multinational coalition , the death  टोल  is carefully tracked and updated daily , and the names  और  photographs  of   those  killed  in   कार्रवाई  as well  as  in accidents  have  been published  widely  .
a   कुल  of  4,486  U.S. soldiers were  मारे   in   इराकी  between 2003 and 2012 .
Regarding  the  Iraqis ,  however  , information  on  both military and  civilian  casualties  is   दोनो   कम  precise and  कम  consistent .
Estimates  of   casualty   स्तर  are available from  पत्रकारों   on  the scene ,  इससे   officials   of  involved organizations , and from  समूह  that  summarize  information  on  incidents  reported   in   the  news media  .
The  शब्द  `` casualties `` in its most  सामान्य   भाव  includes  the   घायल  as  खूब   as   the   मुर्दे   .
Accounts of the  क्रमांक  of coalition  wounded  vary widely  ,   partly  because  it   is   नहीं   स्पष्ट   कया  should be counted  :   चाहिए  only those injuries  गंभीर  enough  to   put   a   सिपाही  out  of  commission be included ?
Do  बीमारियों  or injuries  caused   by  accidents count ,  or  should the focus  be   प्रतिबंधित  to  wounds  caused  by  hostile engagement ?
Sources  using  different definitions may  arrive   at  very  अलग   संख्याएँ  , and  sometimes  the precise  परिभाषा  is  नहीं   clearly   निर्दिष्ट   .
Asalto al coche (  डकैती  of the coach  )  , by Francisco  de   गोया
A  highwayman  was  a   चोर  and brigand  जो   preyed   on   travellers  .
This  प्रकार   of  outlaw usually travelled and  robbed  by  घोड़ा  ,  as   compared   to  a footpad who travelled  और  robbed  on   पैर   .
Mounted robbers  यहूद  widely  माना  to be socially superior to  footpads  .
ऐसे   लुटेरों   संचालित  in Great Britain  और   आयरलैंड   इससे  the  elizabethan  era  जबतक  the  जल्दी  19th century .
The word highwayman is  पहला   ज्ञात  to be  प्रयुक्त  in  the  year 1617 ; other  euphemisms  included  ``   शूरवीरों   of   the  road  ''  and  ``   सज्जनों   of   the  road .  ''
Two terms applied  to  19th-century  उत्तर  American highwaymen were road  एजेंटों   in  some  उदाहरण  for mountain  डाकुओं   जबकि  in  अन्य  cases the term is  rlallaala  for mountain-based  ruffians  .
In  the  same  समय   काल   in  Australia , they  यहूद   ज्ञात  as bushrangers .
Earvin `` Magic  ''  Johnson ,  jr.   (  born August 14  ,   1959   )   is  a  रिटायर्ड   अमरीकी   पेशेवर   बास्केट  player  जो  played point guard for  the   लॉस  Angeles Lakers of  the   नेशनल  Basketball Association (  एनबीए   )  .
बाद  winning championships in high school  और  college  ,   जॉनसन  was selected first  overall  in  the   1979  NBA  ड्राफ्ट  by the Lakers .
he   जीती  a championship  और   an  NBA Finals Most  मूल्यवान   खिलाड़ी  Award in  उसके  rookie season ,  और  won four more championships  साथ   the  Lakers during  the  1980s .
Johnson retired  abruptly  in  1991   बाद   announcing   कि   he   था   contracted   hiv  , but  लौटे  to play  in   the  1992 All-Star  खेल  , winning the All-Star MVP Award  .
After protests from  उसके   fellow  players  ,   he  retired  again   लिये   चार  years  ,  but returned in  1996  , at  आयु   36   ,   to   खेल   32  games for the  लेकर्स  before  retiring  for  the  third and final time .
जॉनसन   's  career achievements  शामिल   तीन  NBA MVP Awards , nine  एनबीए  Finals appearances , twelve All-Star games  ,   और  ten All-NBA First  और  Second  टोली   nominations   .
He led the  लीग  in regular-season  assists  four  टाइम्स  , and is the  एनबीए   's   all-time   नेता   in  average  assists  per  खेल  , at  11.2  .
Johnson  थी  a member  of  the `` Dream  टोली  `` ,  the   u.S.  basketball  टोली   कि  won the  ओलम्पिक   सुनहरा   पदक  in 1992  .
After leaving the NBA  in  1992 , Johnson  formed  the Magic  जॉनसन  All-Stars ,  a  barnstorming  टोली  that travelled around  the   संसार  playing  प्रदर्शनी  games .
Johnson  थी   सम्मानित   as   एक  of  the   50  Greatest Players in  एनबीए  History in 1996  ,  and  enshrined  in the  बास्केट  Hall of Fame in 2002  .
He  थी  rated  the  greatest  एनबीए  point guard of all  समय  by ESPN in  2007   .
उसके   दोस्ती  and  फंसने   साथ  Boston Celtics  स्टार  Larry Bird ,  जिसको   he   faced   in   the  1979 NCAA finals  और  three  एनबीए   चैंपियनशिप  series ,  यहूद   खूब   प्रलेखित  .
Since his retirement  ,  Johnson has been an advocate for  hiV/  AIDS prevention and safe  sex  , as  खूब  as an entrepreneur ,  लोकसेवक  , broadcaster and  प्रेरक  speaker .
Johnson was a  part-owner   of  the Lakers for  अनेक   सालो  ,  और   थी   भाग  of  a  group that  खरीदा  the Los Angeles Dodgers  in  2012  .
Allium  कोशिकाएं  in different  phases  of the cell cycle
The cells  of  eukaryotes ( left ) and  prokaryotes   (   सही  )
the   कोशिका   is  the basic structural  ,  functional and biological  ईकाई  of all known living organisms .
It is the smallest  ईकाई   of   जीवन  that is classified  as   a  living  बात   (  except virus , which  consists  only  इससे  DNA/RNA covered by protein and lipids )  ,  and is often  पुकारा  the  भवन  block  of  life  .
it   consists  of  a   जीवद्रव्य  enclosed  भीतर   a  membrane  ,  which  contains  many biomolecules  ऐसे  as proteins  और   nucleic   acids   .
Organisms can be classified  as  unicellular ( consisting of a single cell ; including most  जीवाणु   )  or multicellular (  सहित  plants  और  animals ) .
जबकि   the   क्रमांक   of  cells in  पौधे  and animals varies  इससे  species  to   प्रजाति   ,  Humans contain about 100 trillion  (   1014   )  cells  .
Most plant and animal  कोशिकाएं  are between 1  और  100  micrometres  and therefore are  दृश्य   तभी  under the microscope .
The cell  थी   खोजा   by  Robert  hooke  in 1665 .
the  cell theory  ,   पहला   विकसित  in  1839  by Matthias  jakob   schleiden   और  Theodor Schwann  ,  states  कि  all organisms are composed  of   एक  or more cells  ,  that  सब   कोशिकाएं  come from preexisting cells , that vital  कृत्यों  of  an  organism occur within cells  ,   और  that all  कोशिकाएं  contain  the   खानदानी   सूचना  necessary  लिये  regulating cell  कृत्यों   और  for transmitting information to  the   अगला   पीढी  of cells .
कोशिकाएं   उभरा  on planet Earth  at  least  4.0–4.3   अरब  years  पहले   .
The  शब्द  cell comes from the  लैटिन   गर्भगृह  ,  अर्थ   ``  small room ''  .
The  वर्णनात्मक   पद  for  the  smallest living biological  ढांचा   थी   coined   by   रॉबर्ट  Hooke  in  a book he published  in   1665   जब   he   compared   the  cork  कोशिकाएं  he  देखी  through his microscope to the  छोटी  rooms  भिक्षुओं   जिया  in .
Grecian  सूत्र   is  a men 's hair coloring product in the  संयुक्त  States .
Canada and  यूरोपीय  previously banned the product because  of  its  उपयोग   of  lead acetate  .
A motor  स्कूटर  's front  साथ   an  impractical number  और  variety of headlamps ,  added   लिये  decorative  उद्देश्य
A  headlamp  is a lamp  संलग्न   to  the front  of  a  गाडी  to  लाइट  the road  ahead   .
Headlamp  प्रदर्शन  has steadily improved throughout  the  automobile  आयु  ,  spurred  by the  ग्रेट  disparity between  दिन  and nighttime traffic fatalities : the U.S. National  राजमार्ग  Traffic Safety Administration states  कि  nearly half of all traffic-related  fatalities   occur   in   the  dark , despite  तभी   25   %  of  ट्रैफ़िक  travelling  दौरान  darkness  .
जबकि  it  is   आम  for  the   पद  headlight to  be   प्रयुक्त  interchangeably in informal discussion  ,  headlamp is the term for the device itself  ,   जबकि  headlight  properly  refers to  the   बीम   of  light produced  और  distributed  by   the   यंत्र  .
Other vehicles ,  ऐसे   as  trains  और   वायुयान  ,  हैं  required to have headlamps  .
Bicycle headlamps are  प्रायः  used on  साइकिल  , and are required in some  jurisdictions  .
वे  can be powered by  a  battery  or  a small electrical  सृजनकर्ता  on the wheel .
Additionally  ऑटोमोटिव  night  दृष्टि  systems work to supplement  headlamps   .
Women 's rights  हैं   the  rights and entitlements claimed for  महिलाओं   और   लड़कियों  of  अनेक  societies worldwide  .
In  कुछ  places  ये  rights  हैं   institutionalized  or supported by law  ,  local custom  ,   और  behaviour  ,  whereas in others they  may  be  उपेक्षित  or  suppressed  .
They  differ  from broader  धारणाएं  of  इंसान  rights  through   दावा   of  an inherent  ऐतिहासिक   और  traditional  पूर्वाग्रह  against the  कसरत   of  rights by  महिलाओं  and girls in favour  of  men  और   लड़कों  .
Issues commonly associated  साथ   धारणाएं   of  women  's  rights  शामिल  ,  हालांकि  are  नहीं  limited  to   ,  the right : to  bodily  integrity and autonomy ;  to  vote ( suffrage ) ;  to   थाम  public office  ;  to work ; to  मेला   मजदूरी  or  बराबर   अदा   ;  to own property ; to  शिक्षा  ; to serve in the  सैन्य  or be  conscripted   ;  to enter  into   विधिक  contracts ;  और  to have  वैवाहिक   ,  parental and religious  अधिकारों  .
Caryn Elaine Johnson , best  ज्ञात  as Whoopi  गोल्डबर्ग   (   ,   (   born  November  13  ,  1955  )  is   an  American  comedienne   ,  actress , singer-songwriter  ,  political  activist   ,  author and  बात   दिखाएँ  host  .
Goldberg  बना   उसके   फिल्मी   डेब्यू   in  The Color Purple  (  1985  )  , playing  celie  , a mistreated black woman  in   the  Deep  दक्षिण  .
She  प्राप्त   a  nomination  लिये   the  Academy Award for  बेहतरीन   अभिनेत्री  and won  उसके   पहला   सुनहरी  Globe Award  लिये  her role in the film .
in   1990  ,  वो   निभाई  Oda Mae Brown ,  a   wacky  psychic  helping  a  slain  man  (  Patrick  swayze   )  save his lover (  demi  Moore )  in  the  ब्लॉकबस्टर   भुत  .
इस  performance  जीती  her a  दूसरी  Golden Globe and  an  Academy Award  लिये  Best  supporting   अभिनेत्री   ;   इस  made Goldberg  तभी  the second  ब्लैक   स्त्री  in the history  of   the  Academy  पुरस्कार  to win an  एक्टिंग  Oscar—the  पहला  being  हैटी  McDaniel  जो   जीती   लिये   गए   साथ   the  Wind  in  1939  .
Notable  बाद   films  include  सिस्टर  Act and  सिस्टर  Act 2 , The Player , Made  in  America ,  कैसा  Stella  मिला   उसके   नाली  Back , Girl  ,   बाधित   और  Rat Race .
She is also acclaimed  लिये  her  भूमिकाएँ  as the bartender  guinan  in  स्टार  Trek  :  The Next  पीढी  , as Terry  doolittle  in  jumpin   '   जोकर  Flash , and  as  Carmen  tibideaux   in   ग्ली  , as well as  the   आवाज़  of  shenzi  the hyena in The Lion King .
गोल्डबर्ग  has  महरूम  nominated  लिये   13  Emmy Awards for her  कार्य   in  television .
वो  was  co-producer   of  the popular  खेल  show Hollywood Squares  इससे   1998  to 2004  .
She  रै  been the moderator  of  the daytime talk  दिखाएँ   the   दृश्य  since 2007  .
गोल्डबर्ग  has  a   ग्रैमी   ,   दो  Daytime  emmys  ,  दो  Golden Globes  ,  a Tony (  लिये  production ,  नहीं  acting )  ,   और  an Oscar .
In addition , Goldberg has a  अंग्रेजों   अकादमी  Film  पुरस्कार   ,  four People 's  चुनाव   पुरस्कार  , and has  महरूम  honored with  a   स्टार   on  the  हॉलीवुड  Walk  of  Fame .
She is one of the  few  entertainers who  have   जीती   an  Emmy  ,  Grammy , Oscar , and  टोनी  Award .
the   नेशनल  Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is  an  `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a  प्रमुख   पेशेवर  ice hockey  लीग  of 30 franchised member clubs ,  of  which  सात   हैं  currently located in  कनाडा  and  23   in   the  United States .
Headquartered in New York  नगर  ,  the   एनएचएल  is widely  माना   to  be  the  premier professional ice hockey  लीग  in  the  world ,  और  one of  the  major professional sports  लीग  in the United States  और  Canada .
the   स्टेनली  Cup , the  oldest  professional  खेल  trophy  in   उत्तर   अमेरिका  , is awarded annually  to  the  लीग  playoff champion at  the   समाप्त  of each season .
The league was organized on November  26   ,  1917 , in  मॉन्ट्रियल  ,  क्यूबेक  , Canada  ,  after  the   बर्खास्तगी  of operations  of   इसके  predecessor  संगठन   ,  the  नेशनल  Hockey  संघ   (   नह   )  , which had been founded in  1909   .
It  प्रारंभ  with four teams  और  , through a series of expansions ,  contractions  , and  relocations  , the league  is  now  रचित  of  30  active franchises  .
The  स्वदेश  to which the name  of   the  league  originally   referred   थी  Canada  ,  although the league  रै   अभी  been binational  चूंकि   1924  when it expanded  into   the  United States  .
After  a   श्रमिक   विवाद  that  led  to  the   रद्दीकरण   of  the  संपूर्ण  2004–05  ऋतु  , the league resumed play  अंतर्गत   a   नई  collective bargaining agreement that  शामिल  a salary cap  .
In 2009 ,  the   एनएचएल  enjoyed record highs in terms  of  sponsorships , attendance ,  और   टेलीविज़न   ऑडियंस   .
the  NHL  draws   अनेक   अत्यधिक   skilled   खिलाड़ी   इससे  all over the  संसार  and currently  रै  players from  परिचय  20  अलग  countries .
Although  canadians  have  historically  constituted  the   बहुमत  of the players in the  एनएचएल  ,  over  the past  चार  plus  दशकों   the  percentages of US and European  खिलाड़ी  have  increased  both because of the NHL 's continued expansion  इससे  six to  तीस   क्लब   चूंकि  1967  ,  and the increased availability  of  highly skilled European players .
Maggots  feeding  on  carrion   .
a   maggot   is  the larva of  a  fly (  अनुक्रम  Diptera ) ;  it  is  लागू  in particular to  the  larvae of Brachyceran flies  ,   ऐसे  as houseflies , cheese flies , and blowflies  ,  rather than  लार्वे  of the Nematocera , such  as   मच्छरों  and  क्रेन   उड़ता  .
``   maggot   ''  is not a  तकनीकी  term and should  नहीं  be taken as  ऐसे  ; in  अनेक   मानक  textbooks  of   कीटविज्ञान  it  करता   नहीं  appear in the index at all .
in  many non-technical texts the  पद   is   प्रयुक्त  for insect larvae in general .
Other sources have  coined  their  अपना  definitions ;  लिये  example  :  `` ...
the   पद  applies  to  a  ग्रब  when all trace  of   limbs  has disappeared ...  ''   और  ``  ...  Applied to the  footless   लार्वे  of  dipters  . ''
maggot-like   मक्खी   लार्वे   हैं  of  चौड़ी  importance in ecology and medicine ;  among  other  भूमिकाएँ  ,  विभिन्न   प्रजाति   हैं   prominent   in   रीसाइक्लिंग  carrion  और   कचरा   ,  attacking crops and foodstuffs , spreading microbial infections  ,   और   causing  myiasis .
Herod ( , Hordos  ,   यूनानी   :   ,   hērōdēs  )  ,  also  ज्ञात  as Herod  the   ग्रेट   (  73/74 BCE – 4  bce   in  Jericho ) , was  a  Roman  क्लाएंट   किंग   of   judea   .
His  epithet   of  `` the Great ''  is  widely  विवादित   as  he is described as  ``   a  madman  जो  murdered his own family and a  ग्रेट  many  rabbis   ``   .
he  is  भी  known  लिये   उसके  colossal building  प्रोजेक्ट   in  Jerusalem  और   elsewhere   ,  including  उसके   विस्तार  of the  दूसरी   टेम्पल   in   जेरूसलम  ( sometimes referred to as  हेरोदेस   's  Temple ) and  the  construction of the  बंदरगाहों  at  caesarea  Maritima  .
महत्वपूर्ण  details of his  जीवनी   हैं   gleaned  from the works of the 1st  सदी   ce  Roman–Jewish historian Josephus Flavius .
The  romans  made  हेरोदेस   's  son  ,  Herod Archelaus , ethnarch of  judea  ,  samaria  , and Idumea (  biblical   edom  ) from 4 BCE to 6  ce  , referred to as  the   tetrarchy  of  judea   .
Archelaus was  judged   incompetent  by  the  Roman emperor Augustus who then  संयुक्त   samaria   ,   judea   उचित  and  idumea   into  Iudaea province  अंतर्गत   नियम  of a prefect  जबतक  age 41  .
Herod 's other son Herod  antipas  was tetrarch  of  Galilee from 4 BCE–39  ce  .
ABO blood  समूह   antigens  present  on  red blood  कोशिकाएं   और  IgM  antibodies  present in the  सीरम
The ABO  रक्त  group system  is   the   सबसे   महत्वपूर्ण   रक्त   प्रकार   प्रणाली   (  or blood group  प्रणाली  )  in   इंसान   रक्त  transfusion  .
The  संबद्ध  anti-A  और   anti-b  antibodies are  प्रायः   igm   antibodies   ,  which are  प्रायः  produced  in   the  first  सालो  of  जीवन   by  sensitization to environmental  substances  such  as  food  ,  bacteria ,  और   वाइरस  .
ABO  रक्त   प्रकार  are  भी   उपस्थित   in  some  अन्य  animals  ,   लिये  example apes such  as  chimpanzees ,  bonobos  , and gorillas .
Year 1907  (   mcmvii  ) was  a  common year starting  on  Tuesday  (  link will  प्रदर्शक  the full  पंचांग   )   of   the  Gregorian  पंचांग  and a common year starting on  सोमवार   of   the  13-day-slower Julian calendar .
northville  is  an  affluent city located  in   और  divided by  ओकलैंड  and Wayne  काउंटी  in the U.S.  राज्य   of  Michigan  .
The area  is  a  उपनगरीय  of Metropolitan  डेट्रॉयट  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was  5,970   at  the  2010  census .
सबसे  of the city is in Oakland  काउंटी  , and  is   घिरी  by the  नगर  of  novi  .
The  वेन   काउंटी   portion  is surrounded by Northville Township  .
Northville is served by Northville Public  स्कूलों  .
the  city is located northeast of Ann  arbor   और   उत्तरपश्चिम   of  Detroit .
ऐलेन   stritch   (  born  फ़रवरी  2 ,  1925  ) is an  अमरीकी  actress  और   vocalist   .
वो  has  appeared   in   numerous   स्टेज  plays  और   musicals  ,  विशेषता  films ,  और   अनेक  television programs .
She is  ज्ञात  for her  प्रदर्शन  of ``  the  Ladies  जो   लंच  '' in Stephen Sondheim  's   1970  musical Company , her  2001   one-woman  show ,  ऐलेन  Stritch  at   स्वतंत्रता  , and  recently   लिये  her  भूमिका  as  जोकर  Donaghy  's  mother Colleen on  एनबीसी  's  30  Rock  .
वो  has  महरूम   मनोनीत  for the  टोनी  Award five  टाइम्स   in  various  श्रेणी  .
Stritch is also a three-time Emmy  पुरस्कार   विजेता   .
Misfits is a British  विज्ञान  fiction comedy-drama television show  परिचय   a   समूह   of   यंग   अपराधियों   sentenced  to work  in   a  community service programme  ,   जहाँ  they obtain supernatural powers after a strange electrical storm  .
The series  खोली   in   2009  and is currently ongoing  .
antonia  Thomas , Iwan Rheon , Lauren Socha ,  नाथन  Stewart-Jarrett , and Robert  sheehan   हैं  introduced as Alisha Daniels , Simon  bellamy   ,  Kelly Bailey  ,  Curtis  डोनोवन   ,  and  नाथन   यंग  respectively  .
sheehan   बाएँ  after  the   दूसरी   श्रेणी   ,  replaced in  the  third  by   जोसेफ   gilgun  as  रूडी  Wade  .
बाद  the fourth  श्रेणी  was announced Rheon  ,  Thomas  और  Socha  था  left their  भूमिकाएँ  and  होता  be replaced by  नई   वर्ण  Karla Crome , Nathan McMullen and  मैट  Stokoe  ,   as  Jess , Finn and Alex respectively .
मिडवे  through the  चौथी  series ,  stewart-jarrett   बाएँ  while Natasha O'Keeffe joined  the   डाल   as   ऐबी  Smith .
on   19  March  2013   ,  Channel 4  घोषित  at  a  press  इवेंट  that they  have  renewed Misfits  लिये  a  पांचवां  and final  श्रेणी  containing  8  episodes  .
Brett  lorenzo  Favre  (   born   अक्तूबर  10  ,  1969  )  is a former  अमरीकी   फ़ुटबॉल  quarterback who  खर्च   the  majority  of  his  करियर  with the Green  खाड़ी   पैकर्स  of the  नेशनल   फ़ुटबॉल  League  (  NFL ) .
He was  a  20-year veteran of the NFL  ,  having played  क्वार्टरबैक  for the Atlanta  falcons   (  1991 ) , Green Bay Packers (  1992   –  2007 ) , New York  jets   (  2008 )  और   मिनेसोटा  Vikings (  2009   –   2010  )  .
favre  is  the   तभी  quarterback  in  NFL history  to  throw  लिये   over   70,000   गज   ,  over 500  touchdowns  ,  over  300  interceptions  ,  over  6,000  completions  ,  और  over 10,000 pass attempts  .
Favre started  at   the   क्वार्टरबैक  position  लिये   the   विश्वविद्यालयों  of Southern Mississippi for  चार  years before being  चयनित   in   the  second  गोलाकार  of the  1991  NFL  ड्राफ्ट   by  Atlanta  (  33rd overall ) .
He  थी  traded to  ग्रीन   खाड़ी   on   फ़रवरी   10   ,   1992  ,  लिये   the  19th pick in  the  1992 NFL  ड्राफ्ट   .
Favre became  the   पैकर्स  '  starting  quarterback  in  the fourth game of the  1992   ऋतु   ,  stepping in  लिये   घायल  quarterback Don Majkowski ,  और   प्रारंभ  every  खेल  through the  2007  season .
He was traded  to   the  New  यॉर्क   jets  and started at  क्वार्टरबैक   लिये   the  2008  ऋतु  before signing with the Vikings on  अगस्त  18 ,  2009   as  their starting  क्वार्टरबैक   .
He made an NFL  रिकार्ड  297  लगातार  starts ( 321  सहित  playoffs )  .
he  is  the  only player to win the  ap  Most Valuable Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97  )   .
He  रै   led   टीमों   to  eight  प्रभाग   championships   (  1995  ,   1996  , 1997 , 2002 ,  2003  , 2004  ,  2007 , 2009  )  , five NFC Championship  खेल   (  1995 , 1996  ,  1997 , 2007 , 2009  )   ,  and  दो  Super Bowl appearances (  सुपर  Bowl XXXI ,  सुपर   कटोरी   xxxii   )   ,  winning  एक  (  सुपर   कटोरी  XXXI )  .
he  holds many  एनएफएल  records ,  सहित   सबसे  career touchdown  गुजरता  ,  सबसे   करियर  passing yards , most  करियर   pass  completions , most  करियर   pass  attempts , most career interceptions  thrown   ,  most  लगातार   starts   by  a  खिलाड़ी  , most consecutive starts by a  क्वार्टरबैक  , most  करियर  victories as a  starting   क्वार्टरबैक  ,  सबसे  sacked ,  और   सबसे   fumbles  .
He is  भी  referred to by  उसके  nickname  ``   the  Gunslinger  ''   .
The following is a  सूची   of  notable  वायुयान  hijackings around  the  world .
the   संसार  Wide  वेब  (  abbreviated   as  WWW  or   w3  ,  commonly  known as the web  )  ,  is  a system of interlinked  हाइपरटेक्स्ट  documents  पहुँचा   via   the   अंतरजाल  .
With  a  web browser , one  can  view  वेब  pages that  may   contain   टेक्स्ट   ,  images , videos  ,   और  other  मल्टीमीडिया   ,   और  navigate between  उन्हें  via hyperlinks .
Using concepts  इससे  his earlier  हाइपरटेक्स्ट   प्रणालियों  like  enquire  , British engineer  ,  computer scientist and at that  समय   कर्मचारी   of   the   cern  , Sir  टिम  Berners-Lee  ,   अभी   निदेशक  of the  संसार  Wide Web Consortium  (  W3C  )   ,   लिखा  a  प्रस्ताव   in  March 1989  लिये  what would eventually  become   the  World Wide Web .
At CERN  ,  a European research organisation near  जेनेवा   straddling   the  border between  फ़्रांस   और  Switzerland ,  berners-lee   और   belgian  computer scientist  रॉबर्ट  Cailliau proposed in  1990   to   उपयोग   हाइपरटेक्स्ट  `` to link and  अभिगम  information of various  kinds   as  a web of nodes in which the  उपयोक्ता  can browse at  होगा   ''  , and they  सरेआम  introduced the project in December  of   the  same year .
Wayne Lyman  मोर्स   (   अक्तूबर  20 , 1900July  22  , 1974 ) was  a  politician  और  attorney  इससे  Oregon  ,  United  राज्य   ,   ज्ञात   लिये  his proclivity for opposing his parties  '  leadership  ,  and  specifically  for  उसके   विपक्ष   to  the  वियतनाम   युद्ध  on constitutional grounds .
Born in  मैडिसन  , Wisconsin ,  और   शिक्षित  at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and  the  University of  मिनेसोटा   विधि  School , Morse moved to  ऑरेगॉन   in  1930  और  began teaching  at   the  University  of  Oregon School of Law .
दौरान  World War  ii  he was  निर्वाचित  to  the  United States  सीनेट  as  a  Republican  ;  he became an  स्वतंत्र   बाद  Dwight  D.  Eisenhower  's   चुनाव   to   the  presidency  in  1952  .
जबकि   an  independent , he  नियत   a  record  लिये   performing  the  दूसरी  longest  one-person  filibuster  in  the history of the  सीनेट  .
Morse  joined   the   लोकतांत्रिक   पार्टी  in  1955   ,   और   थी  reelected twice  जबकि  a  सदस्य   of  that  पार्टी  .
मोर्स  made a brief run  लिये   the  Democratic  पार्टी  's presidential  नामांकन  in 1960 .
A few years later ,  मोर्स  was one of  तभी   दो   सीनेटरों  who opposed  the  Gulf of  tonkin  Resolution , which authorized  the   अध्यक्ष  to take military action  in  Vietnam without a declaration  of   युद्ध   .
he  continued to speak out against  the  war  in   the  ensuing  सालो  ,  और  lost  उसके   1968  bid for reelection to  bob   packwood   ,  who criticized his strong opposition  to  the war  .
Morse  बना  two more  बोलियों   लिये  reelection  to  the  सीनेट  before his  मौत  in 1974 .
in   संसदीय  procedure  ,  a  गति  to table has two different and contradictory meanings:
In the United States ,  to  table usually means the to lay [ the  टॉपिक  ] on the table or to move  लिये  postponement of consideration ; a proposal  to   बर्खास्तगी   विचार  of a pending  गति   .
much   कम  often  ,   it   अर्थात्   a  motion  to  ``  put  on  the  table ''  :  a proposal to begin consideration ( or reconsideration  )  , a usage  सतत   साथ  the rest of the  english-speaking  world  .
In  the   बाकी  of  the  English-speaking world  ऐसे  as the United Kingdom ,  to   तालिका  means  to  move to place [  the  topic ]  upon  the table ( or to move  to  place on the table  )  :  a  proposal to  शुरू  consideration  (  or  reconsideration   )  of a proposal .
दोनो   the  American  और   the  British  dialects  have the sense of  ``  to  तालिका   ''   as  to  lay   [  the topic ] on the table or to cause [  the   टॉपिक   ]   to  lie  on   the  table  .
The  अंतर   is   the  idea  of   कया   the   तालिका  is for  ,   कि  of a  शेल्फ  off to the  पक्ष  , or  an  active  कार्य  bench .
the  British  अर्थ  has  the   भाव   of  the  तालिका   as  being  an  active work bench ,  साथ   the  topic being the center of attention ,  माना   और   discussed  by  सब   जबतक  it  can  be resolved  ,   at   जिससे  point  it  is taken  बंद  the  'table   '  .
The American  भाव  is  कि   the  table is like  कि   of  a shelf ,  अभिलेख  , or long-term  भंडार  device , where  the  topic  रै   महरूम   disposed  of by sending it to  the   'table  ' and leaving it there .
Toy Story 3 is  a  2010  अमरीकी  3D  कंप्यूटर   एनिमेटेड   comedy-drama  prison film , and the third  किश्त   in   the   खिलौना   स्टोरी   श्रेणी   .
it  was  उत्पादित   by  Pixar Animation Studios  और  distributed  by   वॉल्ट   डिज़्नी  Pictures .
Directed  by  Lee Unkrich , the film was  released  worldwide  इससे  June through  अक्तूबर   in   डिज़्नी  Digital 3-D , RealD , and IMAX 3D .
खिलौना  Story 3 was also the  पहला  film to be released theatrically with Dolby  घेर  7.1 sound .
The  पटकथा  was written by Michael Arndt  ,  while Unkrich wrote the  स्टोरी   साथ   साथ   जॉन  Lasseter and Andrew Stanton , respectively  निदेशक  and  co-writer  of the two first films .
the   प्लाट  focuses on  the  toys Woody , Buzz Lightyear  ,  and their  मित्रों   dealing  with an  अनिश्चित  future  as   उनके  owner , Andy ,  prepares   to   छोड़   लिये  college  .
Actors Tom  हैंक्स  , Tim Allen ,  जोन  Cusack , Don  rickles   ,  Estelle Harris ,  जॉन  Ratzenberger  ,  Wallace  shawn  ,  जेफ़   pidgeon  ,  jodi   बेंसन  ,  R.  Lee  ermey   ,  John Morris , and  लॉरी   metcalf  reprised their voice-over roles from the  पिछला  films  .
Jim Varney ,  जो  played  slinky   श्वान   in  the first  दो  films  ,  and Joe  ranft   ,  who portrayed  lenny  and Wheezy  ,   दोनो  died  पहले  production  began  on  खिलौना  Story  3   .
The role of  slinky   श्वान   थी  taken over by Blake Clark (  a   dost  of Varney ) , while  ranft  's  वर्ण  and  विभिन्न  others  यहूद  written out of the  स्टोरी  .
नई  characters  शामिल  performances  by  Ned Beatty  ,  Timothy  डाल्टन  ,  क्रिस्टन   schaal   ,   bonnie  Hunt  ,   whoopi   गोल्डबर्ग   ,   जेफ़  Garlin , Richard Kind ,  और  Michael  कीटन  .
The  विशेषता  broke  shrek  the  तिहाई  record as the biggest opening day  उत्तर   अमरीकी  gross for an animated film unadjusted for inflation , and a big opening  साथ   an  unadjusted  सकल  of $  110,307,189  .
It is  भी  the  highest-grossing  opening weekend  लिये  a Pixar  फिल्मी   ,  as well  as  the highest-grossing  खोलने  weekend for a film  to   have  opened  in  the month of  जून   .
This is the  highest-grossing   फिल्मी   of   2010  , both in the United States and  कनाडा   ,  and  विश्वव्यापी   .
In early August , it became Pixar 's  highest-grossing  film  at  the  उत्तर  American box  दफ्तर  (  surpassing   ढूंढना   nemo   )  ,  और   the   highest-grossing   एनिमेटेड   फिल्मी   of   सब   समय  worldwide  (   surpassing  Shrek  2   )  ; later that month , Toy Story 3 became the first ever animated film  in   इतिहास   to   मेक   over   $  1  अरब   विश्वव्यापी   .
It is currently the 10th-highest-grossing film of all time .
Toy  स्टोरी   3   थी   मनोनीत  for  पाँच  Academy Awards , including Best  चित्र   ,   बेहतरीन  Adapted  पटकथा  ,  और   बेहतरीन  Sound Editing  .
It was the third  एनिमेटेड   फिल्मी  (  बाद  Beauty  और   the  Beast  और  Up ) to  be  nominated for Academy Award for Best Picture  .
It won  the   पुरस्कार   लिये  Best  एनिमेटेड  Feature and  बेहतरीन  Original  सोंग   .
John Levell Starks ( born August 10  ,  1965 ) is  an   अमरीकी  retired professional basketball shooting  गार्ड  .
starks  was  सूचीबद्ध   at   6'5   ''   और   190   पाउंड   दौरान   उसके  NBA playing career .
Although  he  was  नहीं  drafted in  the  1988  एनबीए   ड्राफ्ट  after  उपस्थित  four colleges in his native Oklahoma ,  सहित  Oklahoma State University  ,   he   gained  fame  जबकि  playing for  the  New  यॉर्क  Knicks  of  the  नेशनल   बास्केट  Association in the 1990s  .
सुरक्षित   डिजिटल  or  (   sd  )  is  a non-volatile  मेमोरी   कार्ड  format  लिये   उपयोग  in  पोर्टेबल  devices , such  as  mobile  फोन   ,   डिजिटल  cameras ,  gps   नेविगेशन   डिवाइस  , and tablet computers .
The Secure Digital  मानक   is   कायम  by  the  SD  कार्ड  Association ( SDA ) .
SD technologies have  महरूम  implemented in more  than   400   ब्रांड्स  across  दर्जनों  of product categories and more than  8,000  models  .
the   सुरक्षित  Digital format includes four card families available  in   तीन  different form factors .
The  चार   परिवारों  are the original Standard-Capacity ( SDSC ) , the  high-capacity  ( SDHC ) , the  extended-capacity  ( SDXC  )  , and the SDIO  ,   जिससे  combines  input/output  functions with data  भंडार  .
the  three  रूप  factors  हैं   the  original size  ,   the   ``  mini  ''  size , and the `` micro  ''   आकार   (   देखिए   उदाहरण   )   .
There are many  combinations   of  form  कारकों  and  यंत्र   परिवारों  .
Electrically  passive   adapters   allow  the use  of  a smaller  कार्ड  in a  मेजबान  device built  to   थाम  a  larger   कार्ड   .
Host devices that  comply  with  नए   संस्करण  of  the  specification  provide  backward compatibility  और   accept  older SD cards , but this  आलेख  explains several  कारकों  that  can   prevent   the   उपयोग  of  a  newer SD card:
A newer  कार्ड  may  प्रस्ताव  greater capacity  than   the   मेजबान  device  can  handle .
A newer  कार्ड  may use  a   संचिका  system  the   मेजबान   यंत्र  can not  navigate  .
उपयोग   of   an  SDIO card requires the  मेजबान  device be designed for  the   input/output  functions  the  card provides .
The organization  of  the  कार्ड  was changed  starting  with the SDHC family .
कुछ   विक्रेता  produced  sdsc  cards above 1  gb   पहले   the   sda   था   मानकीकृत   a  method  of  doing  so  .
the  SDA  उपयोग  several trademarked logos  to  enforce  अनुपालन  with its specifications  और   assure   उपयोक्ता  of compatibility  .
Hugh John  mungo   ग्रान्ट  ( born 9  सितंबर   1960   )  is a  अंग्रेजों  actor and film producer .
he  has received a Golden Globe ,  a  BAFTA ,  और  an  मानद   césar   .
His films  have  earned more than  us  $  2.4   अरब  from  25  theatrical  रिलीज   विश्वव्यापी   .
Grant achieved  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  stardom after appearing in Richard Curtis  's  successful  चार  Weddings  और   a  Funeral  (   1994  )  .
He  प्रयुक्त   इस  breakthrough  भूमिका   as   a  frequent cinematic persona during  the  1990s  ,  delivering comic  प्रदर्शन  in mainstream films like  मिकी   ब्लू   आँखें   (   1999  ) and Notting Hill ( 1999  )   .
by  the turn of  the  21st  सदी  , he  था   स्थापित   खुद  as a leading  man  skilled with a  satirical  comic  हुनर  .
Grant has expanded his oeuvre  साथ  critically acclaimed turns as a cad in  ब्रिजेट   जोन्स  's Diary ( 2001  )  , About  a   लड़के  (  2002   )   ,  Love Actually  (  2003  )   ,  and American Dreamz  (  2006 ) .
He later  निभाई   विरूद्ध  type with multiple  कैमियो   भूमिकाएँ   in  the epic  नाटक   फिल्मी   बादल  Atlas  (   2012  )  .
भीतर  the film  उद्योग  , Grant is cited as an  anti-film  star  जो   approaches  his roles like a  अक्षर   कर्ता  , and  कोशिशें  to  मेक  his  एक्टिंग  appear spontaneous  .
hallmarks  of his comic skills include a  nonchalant  touch of  विडंबना  / sarcasm and  पढ़ाई  physical  mannerisms  as  खूब   as   उसके  precisely-timed dialogue delivery  और  facial  expressions   .
The  entertainment  media 's coverage of Grant 's life off the big screen has  प्रायः  overshadowed his  कार्य   as   a  thespian  .
he  has been  गायन  about  उसके  disrespect for  the  profession  of  acting ,  और   in   उसके  disdain towards the  संस्कृति  of  हस्ती  and  दुश्मनी  towards the media .
In  a  career  spanning  30 years ,  ग्रान्ट  has repeatedly claimed  कि   एक्टिंग   is   नहीं  a true calling  लकिन  just  a   जॉब  he  गिरी   into  .
The Han  राजवंश   (   ;  )  (   206  BC – 220 AD  )   थी   an  imperial dynasty  of   चीन  ,  preceded  by the  qin   राजवंश   (  221–207 BC ) and succeeded by the  तीन   kingdoms  (  220–280  AD  )   .
It was  संस्थापित  by the rebel  नेता  Liu Bang ,  ज्ञात   मरणोपरांत  as Emperor Gaozu  of   हान   .
it   थी  briefly  बाधित   by  the Xin  राजवंश  ( 9–23 AD  )  of the former regent  वांग   mang  .
This interregnum separates  the  Han  into  two  अवधि  : the Western  हान  (  206   bc  –  9   ad   )   और  Eastern Han (  25–220   ad   )   .
Spanning over four  सदियां   ,   the   काल  of  the  Han  राजवंश  is  माना  a  सुनहरी  age  in  Chinese history .
to  this day , China 's  बहुमत   जातीय   समूह  refers to  itself  as  the  `` Han people '' and the Chinese script  is  referred to as ``  हान   वर्ण  `` .
The Han  साम्राज्य   थी  divided into  क्षेत्रों  directly  नियंत्रित  by the  सेंट्रल   सरकारी  ,  ज्ञात   as  commanderies , and  a   क्रमांक   of   semi-autonomous  kingdoms .
These kingdoms  धीरे   खोया   सब  vestiges of  उनके   स्वतंत्रता   ,  particularly following  the  Rebellion of  the   सात   राज्य  .
The  xiongnu  ,  a   nomadic  confederation  जिससे   वर्चस्व  the eastern Eurasian Steppe ,  पराजित  the Han army in  बैटल  in  200   bc   .
following  the defeat , a  राजनैतिक   विवाह  alliance was  negotiated  in which  the  Han became the  de  facto  अवर  partner .
When  ,  despite  the   सन्धि   ,  the Xiongnu continued  to  raid Han  सीमायें  , Emperor  wu   of  Han (  r.   141–87  BC  )  launched several military  अभियान  against them  .
the   परम  Han  विजय  in these wars eventually forced  the  Xiongnu to accept  vassal   औकात  as  हान  tributaries .
These  अभियान   विस्तारित   हान   प्रभुता  into the Tarim  जलाशय  of Central  एशिया   और  helped  स्थापित  the  विशाल  trade network known  as  the  रेशा  Road  ,  which reached  as   दूर   as   the  Mediterranean  संसार  .
Han  शक्तियां  managed to divide the Xiongnu into two competing  राष्ट्र   ,  the Southern and  उत्तरी  Xiongnu , and  मजबूर   the  Northern  xiongnu  across the Ili River .
Despite these victories , the territories  उत्तर   of   हान   's  borders  यहूद  quickly overrun by  the   nomadic   xianbei  Confederation .
After 92 AD , the  राजमहल  eunuchs increasingly involved  themselves  in court  राजनीती   ,  engaging in  हिंसक  power struggles between the  विभिन्न   consort  clans of the  empresses  and  सम्राज्ञी   dowagers  , causing the Han  's   परम   downfall  .
Imperial authority was  भी   seriously  challenged by large Daoist religious societies  जिससे   instigated  the  पीला   पगड़ी   विद्रोह  and  the   पाँच   pecks  of  राइस  Rebellion  .
Following  the   मौत   of  Emperor  ling   (   r.   168–189  AD ) ,  the  palace eunuchs  suffered  wholesale massacre by  सैन्य  officers  ,  allowing members of the aristocracy and  सैन्य   राज्यपालों   to  become  warlords   और  divide  the   साम्राज्य  .
जब  Cao Pi , King of Wei , usurped the throne  इससे   सम्राट   xian   ,   the   हान  Dynasty  ceased   to   मौजूद  .
the   हान   राजवंश  was an  आयु   of  economic prosperity  और  saw a significant growth of the money economy  पहला   स्थापित  during  the  Zhou  राजवंश  ( c.  1050–256  BC )  .
The coinage issued by  the  central government mint  in   119   bc   remained  the standard coinage of  चीन  until the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907  ad  )  .
to   अदा   लिये   इसके  military campaigns and the settlement of newly  conquered   frontier  territories  ,  the government  राष्ट्रीयकृत   the  private salt and  आयरन  industries in 117  bc   .
These government  monopolies   यहूद   repealed   दौरान  the Eastern  हान  period  ,   और   the  lost revenue  थी   recouped  through heavily taxing  निजी  entrepreneurs  .
The emperor  थी  at  the   शिखर  of Han  समाज   .
he   presided   over  the  हान   सरकारी   लकिन   साझा   शक्ति  with both the  धामों   और  appointed ministers who came largely from the  scholarly   gentry   क्लास   .
From the  शासनकाल  of Emperor Wu onward , the Chinese court officially  प्रायोजित  Confucianism in  शिक्षा   और  court  राजनीती   ,   synthesized  with the cosmology of later scholars  ऐसे   as   डांग  Zhongshu  .
This policy endured  जबतक  the  पतन  of  the   चिंग   राजवंश   in  1911  ad   .
विज्ञान  and technology during  the   हान   काल  saw  significant  advances ,  सहित  papermaking , the nautical  परिचालन   अरित्र  ,  the  use  of  negative numbers in mathematics ,  the  raised-relief  मैप  , the hydraulic -powered  armillary  sphere  लिये   खगोलशास्त्र  ,  और  a seismometer employing  an  inverted pendulum .
Tourette syndrome (  भी  called Tourette 's  सिंड्रोम   ,  Tourette  's   विकार  , Gilles de la Tourette  सिंड्रोम  , GTS or , more commonly  ,  simply Tourette  's  or TS )  is  an  inherited  neuropsychiatric  विकार   साथ  onset in childhood , characterized  by  multiple physical  (  motor ) tics  और  at least one  गायन  (  phonic  ) tic .
These tics characteristically wax and  wane  ,  can  be suppressed temporarily ,  और   हैं  preceded by a  premonitory  urge .
tourette  's is defined as  भाग  of  a   वर्णक्रम  of tic disorders , which includes  क्षणिक   और  chronic  tics   .
Tourette  's  was once considered  a   विरल   और  bizarre syndrome  ,  most often associated with  the  exclamation of obscene words  or   socially  inappropriate and derogatory  remarks   (  coprolalia ) ,  लकिन  this  लक्षण   is  present  in  only a small minority  of   लोगों   साथ  Tourette 's .
Tourette 's is  no  longer considered  a   विरल   कंडीशन  , but  it   is  not always  correctly  identified  क्युकी  most cases are mild and the severity of tics decreases  लिये  most children as they  pass  through adolescence  .
Between 0.4  %  and  3.8  % of  children  ages 5 to 18  may   have  Tourette 's ;  the   व्यापकता  of  क्षणिक  and  दीर्घकालिक   tics   in   school-age  children is higher , with the  अधिक  common tics  of   नजर   blinking  ,  खाँसी  ,  गला   clearing  ,  सूँघने   ,   और  facial movements  .
Extreme  tourette   's   in  adulthood is a rarity  ,  and Tourette 's does not adversely  affect  intelligence  or   जीवन  expectancy .
Genetic and environmental factors  खेल  a  भूमिका   in  the etiology  of   tourette  's , but the exact  कल्याणकारी   हैं  unknown .
in   सबसे  cases , medication is  अनावश्यक  .
There is  no  effective  उपचार  for  प्रत्येक  case of  tics   ,   लकिन  certain  medications  and therapies  can   सहायता  when  उनके  use  is   warranted   .
Education is  an  important part of any treatment  योजना  , and explanation  और   reassurance  alone are  प्रायः  sufficient treatment .
comorbid  conditions  (  co-occurring  diagnoses   अन्य  than  tourette   's  )  ऐसे  as attention-deficit  अतिसक्रियता  disorder  (   adhd   )  and  obsessive–compulsive  disorder ( OCD ) are  उपस्थित  in many patients seen  in  tertiary  specialty  clinics .
These other conditions often cause more functional  पुतलियों  to  the  individual than  the  tics  कि   हैं   the   hallmark   of  Tourette 's , hence  it  is important  to  correctly identify  comorbid  conditions and  दावत  them  .
The  eponym  was bestowed  by  Jean-Martin  charcot   (  1825–1893  )   on  behalf  of  his resident  ,  Georges Albert  édouard  Brutus Gilles  de  la Tourette  (  1859–1904 ) , a French  चिकित्सक   और  neurologist ,  जो   प्रकाशित  an account  of  nine patients with  tourette   's   in   1885  .
सनबीम  badge .
Sunbeam  थी  a marque registered  by  John  marston   co.  Ltd of  wolverhampton   ,  England ,  in  1888 .
The company  पहला  made  साइकिल   ,   तब   मोटरसाइकिल   और  cars from the late  19th  century until about 1936 ,  और  applied the marque  to  all three forms of transportation  .
The  कम्पनी  also  manufactured  aero  इंजन  in the First World  युद्ध   और   647  aircraft during  the  Second World War  .
A Sunbeam was the first British  car  to  जीत   a  Grand Prix  रेस   ,   और  set  a  number of land speed records .
The company  गई   into   receivership   in   1935  and was  खरीदा  by  the  Rootes Group ,  जिससे  continued to use the Sunbeam marque .
Fox News Channel ( FNC ) ,  भी  known  as  Fox News , is a cable  न्यूज   चैनल   स्वामित्व   by  the Fox  entertainment  Group  ,  a subsidiary  of   न्यूज  Corporation .
As of  अप्रैल   2009  , the channel was available to 102 million  households   in  the United States  और   to   दर्शक  internationally , broadcasting  primarily   इससे  its New  यॉर्क  studios  .
The channel  थी   निर्मित  by Australian-American media  mogul  Rupert  मर्डोक  ,  जो  hired  पूर्व   एनबीसी   कार्यपालिका   रोजर   ailes   as  its  founding   सीईओ   .
It  शुभारम्भ   on  October  7   ,  1996  to  17 million cable  सदस्य  .
It grew during the late 1990s and  2000s  to become  the  dominant  केबल  news network in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  .
आलोचकों  have stated  कि   फॉक्स   न्यूज  Channel promotes  रूढ़िवादी  political positions and  पक्षपातपूर्ण  reporting  .
टीकाकारों  ,  न्यूज   anchors  ,  और  reporters at Fox  न्यूज   चैनल  have responded  कि  news  रिपोर्टिंग   और  political commentary operate independently  of   प्रत्येक   अन्य  ,  और   have   अस्वीकृत  any  पूर्वाग्रह  in news reporting  .
The mandibular first molar  or  six-year  molar  is the tooth  स्तिथ   distally  ( away  इससे   the  midline  of   the  face )  इससे   दोनो   the   mandibular  second premolars  of  the mouth but  mesial   (   toward  the midline of  the   फेस   )   इससे   दोनो  mandibular  दूसरी  molars  .
It is  स्तिथ  on  the  mandibular (  निम्नतर  ) arch  of   the   मुँह   ,  and generally  opposes  the maxillary ( upper  )  first molars and the maxillary  2nd  premolar in normal class I  occlusion  .
the  function of this  molar  is  समान   to  that of all molars  in  regard to  पीस   होने  the  प्रिंसिपल  action during mastication ,  commonly  known  as   चबाने  .
There are usually five well-developed cusps on mandibular  पहला  molars : two on  the   buccal  ( side nearest the  गाल  )  ,  two lingual  (  side nearest  the   जीभ   )   ,   और  one  distal  .
There are great differences  between  the deciduous (  baby  ) mandibular  molars  and  those   of  the  स्थाई   mandibular  molars , even though their function are  समान  .
The permanent mandibular molars  हैं   नहीं  considered to  have   कोई  teeth that precede it  .
despite  being named molars , the deciduous  molars   हैं  followed by  स्थाई  premolars  .
In the universal system of notation ,  the  deciduous  mandibular  first  molars   हैं   designated  by a letter written in uppercase  .
the   सही   पतझड़ी   mandibular   पहला   molar   is  known  as  `` S '' , and the left one is  ज्ञात  as `` L  ''   .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  notation  रै  a  अलग  system  of  notation  .
यूँ   ,  the  सही  deciduous  mandibular  first molar is known  as   ``  84  ''  ,  और   the   बाएँ   एक  is  ज्ञात  as  ``   74  ''  .
In the universal  प्रणाली   of   संकेतन   ,  the permanent mandibular first molars are designated  by  a number  .
The right permanent mandibular first molar  is  known  as  ``  30   ''  , and  the   बाएँ   एक  is known as `` 19  ''   .
The  पामर  notation  उपयोग  a number  in   संयोजन   साथ  a symbol designating in which quadrant  the  tooth is  मिला   .
For this tooth , the  बाएँ   और   सही  first  molars   होता  have the  वही  number  ,  `` 6 '' ,  लकिन   the   सही   एक  would have the symbol ,  ``  ┐  ''   ,   over  it  ,  while the  बाएँ   एक  would  have  ,  ``  ┌ '' .
the  international  संकेतन   रै  a  अलग   क्रमांकन  system  than  the previous two ,  और  the  सही   स्थाई  mandibular first molar is  ज्ञात  as ``  46   ''   ,  and  the  left  एक   is  known as  ``  36 '' .
Mandibular  प्राथमिक  first molars usually have four  गूदा  horns .
the  first molar  is  usually the first  स्थाई   दाँत  to erupt  और  has  वयस्क  undertones  .
Anatomy :  the  mandibular  पहला  molar  रै   पाँच   पुलिन   :   the  mesiobuccal ( MB , toward  midline  and cheek  )   ,  mesiolingual (  ml  ,  toward  midline  और   जीभ  )  ,  distolingual  (   dl   ,  away  इससे  midline and  towards  tongue  )  ,  distobuccal  ( DB  ,  away  इससे  midline and toward cheek  )  , and  distal  (  d  ,  दूर   इससे   midline   )  ,  सूचीबद्ध   in   अनुक्रम   of   अवरोहण   आकार  .
सूचीबद्ध   in  order of decreasing height  वे  are  :  ML ,  dl  ,  df  , MF ,  और  D.  an  eighth cusp  थी   मिला   in  a primary second lower molar  in  an  argentinean  child  .
viewed  from  the  top  of  the  दाँत  ( occlusal  दृश्य  )  ,  the mandibular  पहला   molar   is   pentagonal  (  पाँच   तरफा  ) in shape and tapers toward the lingual  ,  with the  पहलू   होने  the buccal surface  ,  the  mesial  surface  ,  the lingual  सतह  , distal  सतह  , and the  distobuccal  surface .
the   occlusal   सतह  has  चार   डोले  .
The  सेंट्रल   नाली   is  not straight but runs  bas  the center  of  the  दाँत  mesially  to  distally and contains four  गड्ढों  (  mesial  , central  ,  central , and  distal   )  .
The distobuccal groove runs from  the   distal  pit in  the   सेंट्रल   नाली   distobuccally  separating the  distal   और   distobuccal  cusps .
The lingual  नाली   रनों  from the  अधिक   distal   of  the central  गड्ढों  in  the  central groove toward the  lingual  surface between  the  mesiolingual and  distolingual   पुलिन  .
The  buccal  groove runs from the more mesial of the central pits  in   the   सेंट्रल  groove  toward  the buccal  सतह  between  the   mesiobuccal  and  distobuccal  cusps  समाप्ति  in  the  buccal pit  .
the  portion of  the  central groove  between   the   सेंट्रल  pits is termed  the  Lewis offset and is  अनिवार्य   to   खाता   लिये  the  स्थितियाँ   of  the buccal and lingual grooves ( buccal  नाली  being more mesial than  the  lingual groove while  वे   हैं   समानांतर   )   .
इससे  the buccal ( buccal  दृश्य  ) ,  दो  roots are  उपस्थित   .
The distal root is generally straighter , although both  प्रायः   have  a slight  distal  curvature  .
the   हाइट्स   of  contour  on  the mesial and distal contact the adjacent  दांत  and  हैं  located at the junction of  the  occlusal and  मध्य  thirds of  the   क्राउन   .
The  फ्लोरिडा   विधानमंडल  is  the   दो  houses that act as  the  state  विधानमंडल  of the U.S. state of Florida  .
the  Florida  संविधान  states  कि  `` The legislative  शक्ति   of   the  state shall  be  vested  in  a legislature  of  the  राज्य   of   फ्लोरिडा   ,  '' composed of  a  Senate and House of Representatives  .
the   विधानमंडल   is   seated   at  the  फ्लोरिडा  State  कैपिटल   in  Tallahassee .
Stained  कांच   चित्रण   of  Daniel interceding with Arioch ,  the  king 's guard .
arioch  had been  चार्ज  with  हत्या   सब   the  wise men after they were not able to  interpret  Nebuchadnezzar 's dream .
Daniel 2  is  the  दूसरी  chapter of the Book of Daniel  in  the  यहूदी  Bible  .
The chapter  's  source  टेक्स्ट  is predominantly written in Aramaic .
According  to  the text  ,   nebuchadnezzar   is  the  किंग  of Babylon who is troubled  by  his dreams .
He demands an interpretation  लिये  his  सपनो  or will have his mystic interpreters executed  .
डेनियल  seeks Divine  अक्ल  to  interpret  the  किंग  's dreams  और  praises  परमेश्वर  with  a  short psalm .
परमेश्वर  gives  डेनियल   a   दृष्टि  in the night to  खुलासा  the king 's  सपना  .
समर्थ   to   satisfy  the king ,  डेनियल  is  प्रचारित   over   the  whole  प्रांत  of Babylon .
One Comcast  बीच   ,   the  headquarters  of   comcast   in  Philadelphia  ,   pa  .
The  बूढ़ा  Comcast logo from 1969 to 1999 , when it was replaced with the crescent logo .
the  Comcast Corporation is an  अमरीकी  provider of entertainment ,  सूचना  and communications products  और   सेवाएं  .
It  is  the  largest  cable operator  ,   एक   of  the biggest  द्रव्यमान  media ,  घर   अंतरजाल   सेवा   प्रदाता   ,  and third largest home telephone  सेवा   प्रदाता   in   the   संयुक्त   राज्य  , providing cable television  ,  broadband  अंतरजाल  ,  टेलीफोन  service  और   in  some areas  घर  security ( including  burglar   सचेतक  , surveillance cameras , fire  सचेतक  systems and home automation ) to both residential and  वाणिज्यिक  customers in 40 states and  the  District of Columbia .
the  company  is  headquartered in Philadelphia  ,   पेन्सिलवेनिया   .
in  2011  ,   comcast   acquired  a  51   %  majority stake in media conglomerate NBCUniversal from  ge  in  जनवरी  2011 , and began the process of  खरीदना   the  remaining 49 % on February 12 , 2013  ,   at  a  लागत  of $ 16.7 billion  .
it  completed the purchase on March  19  ,  2013  .
Comcast also  रै  significant  पकड़कर  in  अनेक   केबल  networks (  सहित  E !
Entertainment Television ,  स्टाइल  Network  ,   g4   ,  the Golf Channel  और   एनबीसी   खेल   संजाल  ) , distribution (  theplatform  ) ,  और  related businesses  .
Comcast has been the  विषय  of criticism  लिये   क्रियाएँ   सहित  its stance  on  net  neutrality  , as  खूब   as   ग़रीब  results on customer  संतोष  surveys .
porcupines   हैं   rodents  with a  कोट  of sharp spines ,  or   quills  ,  कि   बचाव  and  camouflage   उन्हें   इससे   परभक्षी   .
They are  स्वदेशी  to the Americas  ,  southern Asia ,  और   अफ़्रीकी  .
Porcupines are the  तीसरा   largest  of the rodents  ,   पीछे   the  capybara  और   the   बीवर  .
Most porcupines  हैं  about long , with  an  long  टेल  .
Weighing ,  वे  are rounded  ,   विशाल  and slow  .
Porcupines come in  विभिन्न   शेड्स  of brown  ,  gray ,  और   the   असामान्य  white  .
porcupines  '  spiny  protection resembles that of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs  और  monotreme  echidnas  .
The  आम   साही  is a  herbivore   .
It eats  पत्ते  , herbs , twigs  और  green  पौधे   जैसे   skunk  cabbage  और   क्लोवर  and  in   the   शीत  it may eat  छाल   .
The North  अमरीकी  porcupine often climbs trees to  ढूँढें  food  .
The African  साही   is   नहीं  a climber  और  forages  on  the ground .
It is mostly  nocturnal  , but will  sometimes  forage  लिये   खाना  in the  दिन   .
porcupines   have   become   a   pest  in  कीनिया  and are eaten  as  a  कोमलता   .
The name  साही  comes  इससे  Middle French porc espin  (   spined   सुअर  )  .
A regional  अमरीकी  name for  the  animal is  quill   सुअर  .
First page  of  US  पेटेंट   129,843   लिये  Improvement in Lubricators for  steam-engines
Elijah J. McCoy ( May  2  ,  1844  –  अक्तूबर  10 , 1929  )  was  a  black  canadian-american  inventor and  इंजीनियर  , who was notable for his  57  U.S. patents  ,   सबसे  to do with lubrication of steam  इंजन  .
Born  फ़्री   in  Canada  ,   he  returned  as  a five-year-old  चाइल्ड  with his family to the  संयुक्त   राज्य  in  1847   ,  where  he   जिया   लिये  the  बाकी  of  उसके   जीवन  and  became   a  US citizen .
होंडा   fcx  Clarity , a hydrogen  ईंधन  cell demonstration  गाडी  introduced  in   2008
A hydrogen  गाडी  is a vehicle that uses hydrogen  as  its onboard fuel  लिये  motive power  .
Hydrogen  वाहनों  include hydrogen fueled  स्पेस  rockets , as well as  ऑटोमोबाइल  and other transportation  वाहनों  .
The power  पौधे   of  such vehicles  बदलें  the  रासायनिक  energy of hydrogen to mechanical  उर्जा  either  by   burning   हाइड्रोजन  in an  आतंरिक  combustion engine , or  by  reacting hydrogen with oxygen  in  a fuel cell  to  run  इलेक्ट्रिक  motors .
Widespread  उपयोग  of  हाइड्रोजन  for  fueling  transportation is a key element of a  प्रस्तावित   हाइड्रोजन  economy .
Hydrogen  ईंधन  does not  occur   naturally   on  Earth and thus is  नहीं  an energy source ; rather it  is   an  energy carrier  .
it   is  most frequently made from  मिथेन  or other  चट्टान   fuels  ,  लकिन  it can be produced using sources  (   ऐसे   as   हवा  ,  सौर  , or nuclear )  कि  are intermittent ,  too  diffuse  or  too cumbersome to  सीधे  propel vehicles .
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen  पौधे  , using electrolysis of water  ,   हैं  exploring technologies to deliver costs low enough  ,  and quantities  ग्रेट   पर्याप्त  , to  compete  with traditional  उर्जा  sources .
अनेक   कंपनियाँ   हैं  working to develop technologies  कि  might efficiently exploit the  संभावित  of hydrogen energy for  मोबाईल  uses .
The attraction  of  using hydrogen  as   an   उर्जा   करेंसी  is that , if hydrogen  is  prepared without using fossil fuel inputs  ,  vehicle propulsion  होता   नहीं  contribute to carbon dioxide emissions .
The drawbacks of hydrogen use are high  पूंजी   लागत   ,  low  उर्जा  content  प्रति   ईकाई  volume  ,  high  tankage   weights   ,  very  ऊँची   भंडार  vessel pressures  ,   the   भंडार   ,  transportation and filling of  गैसीय   or   द्रव  hydrogen  in  vehicles  ,  the large investment  in  infrastructure that  होता   be  required to fuel vehicles , and  the   inefficiency   of   उत्पादन   प्रक्रियाओं  .
Sacramento  is   the  capital city of  the  U.S.  राज्य   of   कैलिफ़ोर्निया   और  the  सीट   of   सरकारी  of  sacramento  County .
It is  स्तिथ  at  the  confluence of  the   sacramento  River and the  अमरीकी  River in  the   उत्तरी   portion  of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  's  expansive   सेंट्रल   घाटी  .
साथ  an  अनुमानित   2011  population of 477,891  ,   it  is  the  sixth-largest  नगर  in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   और  the  35th  largest  नगर  in the United  राज्य   .
Sacramento  is  the core cultural and economic  बीच  of the Sacramento  महानगर  area  जिससे  includes seven counties  साथ   an   अनुमानित  2009 population  of  2,527,123 .
Its  महानगर  area  is   the  fourth  largest   in  California  बाद  the  वृहद  Los  एंजिल्स   क्षेत्रफल   ,  San  फ्रांसिस्को  Bay Area , and  the   सैन  Diego metropolitan area , as  खूब  as the 25th largest in  the  United  राज्य  .
sacramento   थी   cited   by  Time  पत्रिका  as America  's  most  ethnically  and racially  एकीकृत  city  in  2002 .
Sacramento became a  नगर  through  the   प्रयत्न  of  the  Swiss immigrant  जॉन  Sutter  ,   sr.   ,   उसके  son John Sutter  ,  Jr. ,  और  James W.  मार्शल  .
sacramento  grew  जल्दी   धन्यवाद   to   the  protection of  sutter   's  Fort  ,   जिससे  was  स्थापित   by  Sutter in 1839  .
During the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   सुनहरा   फटाफट  ,  sacramento   थी  a major  वितरण   पाइंट  ,  a   वाणिज्यिक  and agricultural center  ,   और  a terminus for  वैगन  trains ,  stagecoaches  ,  riverboats   ,  the telegraph ,  the  Pony Express ,  और  the  पहला  Transcontinental Railroad .
कैलिफ़ोर्निया  State University  ,  Sacramento ,  अधिक  commonly known  as   sacramento  State  or  Sac State , is the  largest   लोकल  university .
it   is   एक  of the  twenty-three  campuses of the California State  विश्वविद्यालयों   प्रणाली   .
Drexel University Sacramento is located  in   शहर  , Sacramento .
विश्वविद्यालयों  of  the   प्रशांत   's   mcgeorge   स्कूल   of  Law  is  located  in  the Oak  पार्क  neighborhood .
in  addition ,  the   विश्वविद्यालयों   of  California , Davis is  स्तिथ  in  आसपास  Davis  ,  west  of   the  capital .
the  UC Davis Medical  बीच  ,  a  world-renowned  शोध  hospital ,  is  located in  the  city of Sacramento .
the  Apple Store is a chain of retail stores  स्वामित्व  and operated by Apple Inc. , dealing in  कंप्यूटर  and consumer  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स   .
the  stores  बेचें  Macintosh personal computers , software ,  ipods  ,  ipads  , iPhones , third-party accessories , and other consumer electronics such as Apple  tv   .
कुछ  high  प्रोफ़ाइल  stores feature a  थिएटर   लिये   प्रस्तुतियों  and workshops and a  स्टुडियो   लिये  training with  ठहराना  products ; all  स्टोर्स  offer a Genius Bar for technical  support  and  मरम्मत  , as  खूब   as   फ़्री  workshops  उपलब्धियाँ   to   the  public  .
Under  the   नेतृत्व  of Ron Johnson ,  the   पूर्व   वरिष्ठ   वाइस  President  of   खुदरा  Operations , the Apple  स्टोर्स  have  ,  according to  an  article  in  the New York  टाइम्स  , been responsible for `` [  turning  ] the boring  कंप्यूटर  sales floor into  a   sleek   playroom  filled with  गैजेट  '' .
, Apple has 405 stores worldwide , with  वैश्विक  sales  of   अरब  in  merchandise  in  2011   ,   और   वे   सीसे  the  संयुक्त  States  खुदरा  market  in  terms of  बिक्री  per  ईकाई  area .
Steven Paul  ``   स्टीव  '' Jobs ( ; February 24  ,  1955  –   अक्तूबर  5 ,  2011  ) was an American entrepreneur and inventor ,  बेहतरीन  known  as  the co-founder  ,  chairman  ,   और   सीईओ  of Apple  inc   .
through  Apple ,  he   थी  widely recognized  as   a  charismatic  पायोनियर  of  the  personal  कंप्यूटर  revolution and  लिये  his influential  करियर   in  the computer and consumer  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स  fields , transforming  ``   एक   उद्योग  after  another   ,   इससे   कंप्यूटर  and smartphones to  म्यूज़िक  and movies ... ''
कार्य  also  co-founded  and served as  मुख्य   कार्यपालिका   of  Pixar Animation  studios   ;   he  became  a  member of  the  board of directors of The  वॉल्ट  Disney Company  in   2006  , when  डिज़्नी   acquired   पिक्चर्स  .
Jobs was among the first  to  see the commercial potential  of  Xerox  parc   's  mouse  -ड्राइवn   आलेखीय  user  इंटरफ़ेस  , which  led   to  the creation  of   the  Apple Lisa  और  , one year later ,  the   मैकिंटोश   .
he  also played a role in introducing the  laserwriter  ,  एक   of   the   पहला   widely  available laser printers  ,  to the market .
बाद   a   शक्ति  struggle with the  फलक   of  directors in 1985 , Jobs  बाएँ  Apple and founded NeXT  ,  a computer  मंच  development company  specializing  in  the   higher-education   और  business  बाज़ार   .
in   1986  ,  he   acquired   the   कंप्यूटर   ग्राफिक्स   प्रभाग  of Lucasfilm  ,  which  थी   spun   बंद   as  Pixar  .
he   थी   credited   in  Toy Story  (  1995  )  as  an  executive  निर्माता   .
he  served  as   सीईओ  and majority shareholder until  डिज़्नी   's  purchase  of   पिक्चर्स  in 2006 .
In 1996 ,  बाद   ठहराना  had failed  to   उद्धार  its operating  प्रणाली   ,   copland  , Gil  amelio  turned to NeXT Computer ,  और  the NeXTSTEP  मंच  became the  न्यास   लिये   the  Mac OS X .
Jobs returned  to   ठहराना   as   an  advisor  ,  and took control of the company  as  an interim  सीईओ   .
Jobs brought  ठहराना   इससे  near  दिवालियापन  to profitability  by  1998  .
as  the  नई   सीईओ  of the company  ,   कार्य  oversaw the  विकास  of the iMac , iTunes , iPod ,  iphone  , and iPad  ,  and on  the   सेवाएं   पक्ष   ,  the company 's Apple Retail  स्टोर्स   ,   itunes  Store and  the   app  Store .
the  success of these  उत्पाद   और  services provided  अनेक   सालो   of   stable   वित्तीय  returns , and propelled  ठहराना  to  become   the  world 's  सबसे  valuable  सरेआम  traded company in  2011  .
the  reinvigoration  of   the  company is  regarded   by  many  टीकाकारों  as one  of  the  महानतम   turnarounds   in   कारोबार  history .
in  2003 , Jobs  थी   diagnosed   साथ  a pancreas neuroendocrine  ट्यूमर   .
Though  it   थी  initially  treated   ,  he reported  a   हार्मोन   असंतुलन  ,  underwent  a liver transplant in 2009 , and  appeared   progressively  thinner  as   उसके   स्वास्थ्य   अस्वीकृत   .
On  चिकित्सा   छोड़   लिये  most  of  2011 , Jobs resigned in  अगस्त  that year  ,  and was elected  अध्यक्ष   of  the Board  .
He died of  respiratory  arrest  सम्बन्धित   to   उसके  metastatic tumor on October 5 ,  2011  .
कार्य   प्राप्त  a  क्रमांक  of honors and  पब्लिक  recognition for  उसके  influence  in  the technology  और   म्यूज़िक  industries  .
he  has been referred  to  as ``  legendary   ''  ,  a   ``   futurist  '' or simply `` visionary  ''   ,   और  has  महरूम   वर्णित   as  the `` Father  of  the Digital Revolution  ''   ,  a `` master  of   नवीनता  ''  ,  and  a  ``  डिज़ाइन  perfectionist '' .
प्रवेश   to   खण्ड  ( 52 ) of  the  Colosseum ,  साथ  numerals still  दृश्य
Roman numerals  ,   the   न्यूमेरिक  system in ancient  रोम  ,  उपयोग  combinations of  अक्षर  from  the   लैटिन  alphabet to  signify  values  .
The numbers 1 to  10   can  be  expressed  in  रोमन  numerals as  follows:
and  .
the   रोमन   numeral  system is a  cousin   of   etruscan   numerals   .
Use  of  Roman  numerals  continued  बाद  the  मनाही   of   the  Roman Empire  .
From the 14th  सदी  on  ,   रोमन  numerals began to be  replaced   in  most contexts by  अधिक   सुविधाजनक  Hindu-Arabic numerals ; however this  प्रक्रम   थी   क्रमिक   ,  and the use of  रोमन   numerals  in  कुछ  minor  अनुप्रयोग   continues   to   इस  day .
प्रभावी   नाभिकीय  Charge  आरेख
The  प्रभावी  nuclear charge  (   प्रायः  symbolize as  or  Z*  )  is  the   जाल   धनात्मक   चार्ज  experienced by an  इलेक्ट्रॉन   in  a  multi-electron  atom  .
the   पद  `` effective '' is used because the  shielding  effect  of  negatively charged  electrons   रोकता  higher orbital  electrons  from experiencing  the  full nuclear  चार्ज  by  the   repelling   प्रभाव   of  inner-layer electrons  .
The  प्रभावी  nuclear  चार्ज  experienced  by  the outer shell electron  is  also called the  कोर  charge  .
it  is  संभावित  to  determine  the  शक्ति  of the nuclear charge  by   looking   at  the oxidation  क्रमांक   of  the  अणु  .
This  is   a   सूची  of episodes from the Discovery  चैनल  series  ,   तूफ़ान   chasers   .
A  ग्रामीण   खींचें  of  i-5   ,  with two  गलियों   in   प्रत्येक  direction separated by a  विशाल  grassy  मध्य  ,  और   साथ  cross-traffic limited to overpasses and  underpasses
The Dwight D.  आइज़नहावर   नेशनल  System  of  Interstate  और  Defense  राजमार्गों  ( commonly  ज्ञात  as  the  Interstate Highway System ,  अंतरराज्यीय   फ्रीवे  System  ,   अंतरराज्यीय  System ,  or  simply  the  Interstate ) is  a   संजाल  of  freeways   कि   फ़ॉर्म  a part of the National Highway System  of  the United States .
the   प्रणाली  is  नामित   लिये  President  ड्वाइट   D.  Eisenhower , who championed its formation .
निर्माण  was authorized by the Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956 , and the original portion was  समाप्त  35  सालो  later .
The network has since been  विस्तारित  ,  और  ,  it  had a total  लंबाई  of , making it the world  's  second longest after China 's . ,  परिचय  one-quarter of  सब  vehicle miles driven  in  the country use the  अंतरराज्यीय   प्रणाली  .
the   लागत   of  construction  रै  been  अनुमानित  at $ 425 billion ( in  2006   डॉलर  ) ,  बनाना  it the ``  largest  public works  कार्यक्रम  since the  पिरामिडों  `` .
The system  रै   contributed  in shaping the United  राज्य  into a world economic superpower  और   a   अत्यधिक   industrialized   स्वदेश   .
.eu is the country code top-level  डोमेन   (  ccTLD )  लिये  the European Union  (   eu   )  .
Launched  on   7   दिसम्बर   2005  , the domain  is   उपलब्धियाँ  for organisations  in   और   निवासियों   of  EU member states .
The TLD  is   administered   by  EURid  ,  a consortium originally  consisting  of the  नेशनल  ccTLD registry operators of  बेल्जियम  ,  स्वीडन   ,   और  Italy  ,  joined later  by  the  नेशनल   रजिस्ट्री   ऑपरेटर   of   the   चेक  Republic  .
Trademark  स्वामी   यहूद   समर्थ  to  submit   पंजीकरण   through  a sunrise  काल  ,  in   an   प्रयत्न  to prevent cybersquatting  .
पूरा   पंजीकरण   प्रारंभ  on 7 April 2006  .
Meister  अर्थात्  master in German  (   as  in  निपुण  craftsman ,  or  as  an  honorific title  ऐसे  as Meister Eckhart )  .
The word is  akin  to  maestro  .
In  खेल   ,   meister  is  प्रयुक्त   लिये  the  वर्तमान  national , European  or  world champion ( Deutscher Meister , *Europameister , Weltmeister ) .
Many  आधुनिक  day  जर्मनी  police forces use the title Meister .
During  the  Second  संसार   युद्ध   ,   meister  was  the  highest enlisted  रैंक  of the Ordnungspolizei  .
meister  has been borrowed into English slang , where  it   is   प्रयुक्त  in  यौगिक  nouns  .
a  person referred to as  “meister”  is one  जो   रै  extensive theoretical knowledge and  व्यावहारिक  skills  in  his profession  ,  business , or some other kind of work  or  activity .
लिये  example  ,  a  “puzzle-meister”  would be someone  अत्यधिक  skilled at solving puzzles .
These neologisms sometimes  have  a sarcastic  intent   (   लिये   उदाहरण   ,  “stubble-meister”  लिये  someone with a  छोटी   ,   neat   दाढ़ी   or   “crier-meister”  for someone who  प्रायः  cries ) .
mighty   morphin   शक्ति  Rangers is  an  American  live-action   children  's television series  परिचय  teenagers with  super-powers   ,  based  on   the  16th installment of the  जापानी  Super  sentai  franchise  ,   kyōryū  Sentai Zyuranger .
दोनो  the show and its  सम्बन्धित   merchandise  saw unbridled overnight success  ,   बनने  a staple of 1990s  पॉप  culture in mere months  .
अंतर्गत  the original  नाम  , `` Mighty  morphin  Power  रेंजरों  '' the series  भागा  from 1993 to 1995 and spawned  the  feature film Mighty Morphin Power Rangers :  the  Movie  .
the   दूसरी   और   तीसरा  seasons  of  the show drew on footage and  तत्व  from  the  Super  sentai  series Gosei Sentai Dairanger and Ninja Sentai Kakuranger respectively ,  हालांकि   the   zyuranger   वेशभूषा   यहूद  still  प्रयुक्त  for the  पाँच   प्रमुख  Rangers and  अनेक  regular  खलनायक  .
तभी   the  mecha  और   the  Kiba Ranger costume  (   worn   by  the  श्वेत  Ranger ) were  retained   इससे  Dairanger  लिये   the   दूसरी  season ,  जबकि   तभी  the mecha from Kakuranger were  प्रदर्शित  in the  तीसरा   ऋतु  .
However  the  Kakuranger costumes were later used  लिये  the title characters of  the   mini-series   ,   mighty  Morphin Alien  रेंजरों  .
The series  थी  produced by  mmpr  Productions  ,  distributed  by   saban   entertainment  , and aired  on   फॉक्स   बच्चे  .
The show  's  merchandise  थी   उत्पादित  and  वितरित  by Bandai Entertainment .
in  1996  ,   the   श्रेणी  was  rebranded   as   the   शक्ति  Rangers  मताधिकार  ; renaming  the  series every year after , and using costumes ,  प्रॉप्स  , and footage from subsequent Super Sentai series ,  as  well as changing  the  cast  और   कथानक   .
While an overarching  कथानक   होता  continue until  शक्ति  Rangers Lost Galaxy  ,   subsequent  series  बाद  MMPR are  नहीं  sequels or  spin-offs  in the  परंपरागत   भाव  .
In 2010 , a re-version  of   mighty  Morphin Power  रेंजरों  , with  a  new logo , comic book-referenced graphics , and  अतिरिक्त  alternative  खास  effects  ,  was broadcast on ABC Kids  ,   और  Bandai  उत्पादित  brand  नई  toys to coincide with  the  series .
Edgar Allan Poe (  born   एडगर   पो  ; January 19 , 1809 – October  7   ,  1849 ) was an American  लेखक  , poet  ,  editor  और  literary critic ,  माना  part of  the  American Romantic  गति  .
Best known for his tales  of   रहस्य  and the macabre , Poe  थी   एक  of  the  earliest  अमरीकी  practitioners  of  the  छोटी  story and is  generally  considered the inventor of  the  detective fiction genre .
he  is  further  credited with  contributing  to the emerging  विधा  of science fiction  .
He was  the  first well-known  अमरीकी  writer  to  try to  earn  a  जीना   through   लिखने  alone ,  resulting  in a  financially  difficult life and career  .
He was  born   as  Edgar  पो   in  Boston  ,  Massachusetts  ;  he was  अनाथ  young when  उसके   माँ  died shortly  बाद   उसके  father abandoned the family .
Poe  थी  taken in  by  John and  frances  Allan ,  of  Richmond  ,   वर्जिनिया  , but  वे  never  formally  adopted him .
He attended the University of Virginia for one semester but left due to lack of money .
After enlisting  in  the Army  और   बाद  failing as  an  officer  's  cadet  at  West Point  ,   पो   parted   तरीके   साथ  the Allans .
उसके  publishing  करियर  began humbly  ,  with an anonymous collection  of   कविताएं   ,  Tamerlane and Other Poems ( 1827  )   ,  credited only to ``  a   bostonian  '' .
पो   switched  his focus to  गद्य  and  खर्च  the next several  सालो   working   लिये   साहित्यिक   जर्नल्स   और   periodicals  ,  बनने  known for his  अपना  style of  साहित्यिक   आलोचना  .
उसके   कार्य  forced him  to   मूव  among several  शहरों   ,  including  बाल्टीमोर  ,  फिलाडेल्फिया   ,  and New York City .
in  Baltimore in 1835  ,  he married  वर्जिनिया   clemm  , his  13-year-old   cousin  .
In  जनवरी  1845  पो   प्रकाशित  his poem  ,  ``  the  Raven `` , to instant  कामयाबी   .
His  बीवी   died   of   तपेदिक   दो  years after  इसके   प्रकाशन  .
He  began  planning to  उपज  his  अपना  journal  ,   the  Penn  (   बाद  renamed The Stylus  )  , though he  died   पहले   it  could be  उत्पादित   .
On  अक्तूबर   7   ,  1849  ,   at  age 40 , Poe died in  बाल्टीमोर  ;  the   कारण   of   उसके  death  is  unknown  और  has been variously attributed  to   दारू  , brain  जमघट  , cholera ,  दवाएँ  ,  दिल  disease  ,   rabies   ,  suicide , tuberculosis ,  और   अन्य  agents .
पो  and his works  बहकावे  literature in the United  राज्य   और   around  the  संसार  ,  as   खूब  as in specialized fields ,  ऐसे   as  cosmology and cryptography .
Poe and his  कार्य  appear throughout popular culture in literature ,  म्यूज़िक   ,   films  , and television  .
A number  of  his  घरों  are  समर्पित  museums today .
the  Mystery Writers  of   अमेरिका  present an  सालाना  award  ज्ञात  as the  एडगर  Award  लिये   विशिष्ट  work  in  the mystery genre .
Lions  हैं  obligate  carnivores  ; they require  up  to seven kilograms  (   15   पाउंड   )   of   मांस   प्रति  day  .
A major component of their diet  is   the  flesh of large mammals  ,   जैसे  this African  भैंस  .
a   carnivore   (   )   अर्थ   'meat   भक्षक  ' (  लैटिन   ,  caro  अर्थ  'meat  '   or   'flesh   '  and  vorare  meaning 'to devour  '  )  is  an organism  कि  derives its  उर्जा  and nutrient  आवश्यकताएँ   इससे   a  diet consisting mainly or exclusively of animal tissue ,  whether   through   predation  or scavenging  .
Animals  कि  depend  solely  on animal  flesh  for their nutrient requirements are considered  carnivores   जबकि   those   कि   भी   consume  non-animal  खाना  are considered carnivores  .
omnivores  also consume both  एनिमल   और   non-animal   खाना  , and  अलावा   इससे   the  more general  परिभाषा  ,  वहीँ   is  no clearly  पारिभाषित  ratio of  संयंत्र   to   एनिमल  material  कि  would  फर्क  a facultative carnivore from  an   सर्वाहारी   .
A  carnivore   कि  sits at  the  top  of   the  foodchain is  an  apex  परभक्षी  .
पौधे  that  कैप्चर  and  डाइजेस्ट   कीट   हैं  called  मांसाहारी  plants  .
Similarly  ,  fungi  कि  capture microscopic animals  हैं  often called carnivorous  fungi  .
The FIFA World Cup ,  प्रायः  simply the  संसार   कप  , is  an   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  association  फ़ुटबॉल  competition  लडे  by the  वरिष्ठ  men 's  नेशनल  teams of the members of Fédération  internationale  de  फ़ुटबॉल  Association  (   फीफा   )  ,  the   खेल   's   वैश्विक  governing body .
The championship has been  awarded   प्रत्येक  four years since  the   inaugural   टूर्नामेंट  in  1930   ,  except in  1942  and 1946 when it was  नहीं  held  क्युकी   of  the  दूसरी   संसार  War  .
the   वर्तमान  champions  हैं   स्पेन   ,   जो   जीती   the  2010 tournament  .
the   वर्तमान   स्वरूप   of   the  tournament  involves  32 teams competing for the title  at   venues   भीतर   the  host nation ( s )  over  a  काल  of  परिचय   a   माह  ;  इस  phase is often called  the   संसार  Cup  फाइनल   .
a   योग्यता  phase  ,   जिससे  currently takes  प्लेस   over  the preceding  तीन   सालो  , is  प्रयुक्त   to   determine   जिससे  teams qualify for  the  tournament together with the  मेजबान   स्वदेश  (  s   )   .
the  19  संसार   कप  tournaments  have  been won by eight different  नेशनल  teams .
Brazil have  जीती  five  टाइम्स  , and they  हैं  the  तभी   टोली   to   have   निभाई  in every  टूर्नामेंट  .
the  other World  कप   विजेता  are Italy , with four  शीर्षक  ;  जर्मनी  , with  तीन  titles  ;  Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay , with two titles each ; and  इंग्लैण्ड   ,  France , and Spain  ,   साथ  one title  प्रत्येक   .
The World Cup is  the   संसार   's  most  widely   viewed   sporting   इवेंट  ; an estimated 715.1 million  लोगों  watched the final  मैच   of  the 2006  फीफा   संसार  Cup held in Germany .
the  next three World Cups will be  hosted  by Brazil in  2014  ,  रूस   in   2018   ,  and  क़तर  in 2022 .
नायक   is   an  American science  fiction  television drama series created by  टिम  Kring that  appeared  on  एनबीसी   लिये  four  सीज़न  from September 25 ,  2006   through  February 8 , 2010 .
the  series tells  the  stories of  ordinary  people who  discover  superhuman  abilities   ,   और  how  ये  abilities  लो   प्रभाव   in  the  वर्ण   '  lives .
the  series emulates  the   aesthetic  style  और  storytelling  of   अमरीकी  comic  किताबे  , using  multi-episode   स्टोरी   arcs  that build upon a larger  ,  more encompassing arc .
The  श्रेणी  was  उत्पादित  by Tailwind  प्रोडक्शन्स   in   संघ   साथ  Universal  मीडिया  Studios  .
It was filmed  primarily  in  लॉस  Angeles  ,  California  .
Four complete seasons  aired   ,  ending on  फ़रवरी  8 ,  2010   .
The critically  acclaimed  first  ऋतु  had  a  run of  23  episodes and  garnered   an  average of  14.3  million  दर्शक  in the United States  ,  receiving the highest  दरजा   लिये   an   एनबीसी  drama premiere  in   पाँच  years .
The second  ऋतु  of Heroes attracted an average of  13.1  million viewers  in  the U.S. , and marked NBC 's  एकमात्र  series among the top  20  ranked  कार्यक्रम  in total viewership  लिये  the 2007–2008 season .
Heroes has earned a number  of  awards and nominations  ,   सहित  Primetime Emmy  पुरस्कार  , Golden  ग्लोब्स  ,  लोगों   's  Choice Awards and British Academy Television  पुरस्कार   .
An  ऑनलाइन  extension  of  the series  ,   नायक  360 Experience ,  बाद   rebranded  as  नायक   evolutions  , was  निर्मित   to   explore  the  नायक   ब्रह्मांड  and  provides   इनसाइट  into the  दिखाएँ   's   mythology   .
Other  आधिकारिक  Heroes media include magazines  ,  action figures  ,   tie-in   और  interactive websites  ,   a  mobile game  ,   a  novel ,  कपडे  and other  merchandise   .
in  the fall of  2008  ,  एनबीसी   डिजिटल  Entertainment released a  श्रेणी  of online content for  the  summer  ,  including more  असली  web  सामग्री  ,  बेतार   आईटीवी  interactivity , graphic novels  उपलब्धियाँ  for  मोबाईल   देखने   और  webisodes  .
एनबीसी  announced Heroes  रद्दीकरण  on May 14  ,   2010  .
Afterward , the  संजाल  considered  बनाना   a   टेलीविज़न   खास  event  to   conclude  the series  ;  however ,  on  September 9  ,   2010   ,  NBC announced  the   निर्णय   to  stop any further  विकास  of  the  Heroes  मताधिकार  .
Tim Kring  तब   सुझाया  that  the   व्यापक   आधार   of   नायक   storylines   अनुमत   लिये   the  franchise  to  return for fans  ,  but  he   किया  not specify  जब   or  in what  मीडिया   स्वरूप   .
On  अप्रैल  17 ,  2013  , TV  लकीर  reported  कि  MSN  थी  in  बाते   to  revive  the  series with a new  डाल  .
जॉन   pierpont   ``   J.  P  .  ''
Morgan  (   अप्रैल  17 ,  1837  –  कूच   31   ,   1913   )  was an American financier  ,  banker ,  लोकसेवक  and  आर्ट  collector  जो   वर्चस्व   कॉरपोरेट   वित्त   और  industrial consolidation during his  समय   .
In 1892  मॉर्गन   arranged   the  merger  of   एडिसन  General Electric and  thomson-houston  Electric Company  to  form  सामान्य  Electric  .
After financing  the   सृष्टि   of  the  संघीय  Steel  कम्पनी   ,   he  merged in  1901  with  the  Carnegie Steel  कम्पनी  and several other steel  और  iron  व्यवसायों   ,  including  संचित  Steel  और  Wire Company owned by William  edenborn   ,  to  रूप  the United States Steel  निगम  .
Morgan  died  in Rome  ,   इटली  , in  उसके  sleep in  1913  at  the   आयु  of 75  ,  leaving his fortune  और   कारोबार   to   उसके   बेटे  , John  pierpont   ``  Jack  ''   मॉर्गन  , Jr.  ,  and bequeathing his  mansion  and large  किताब   संग्रहण  to The Morgan Library &  संग्रहालय  in  नई   यॉर्क   .
At the  ऊँचाई  of  मॉर्गन  's career during  the  early 1900s ,  he  and  उसके  partners had  वित्तीय  investments  in  many  विशाल  corporations and were  अभियुक्त  by  आलोचकों   of  controlling  the  nation  's  high finance .
He directed  the  banking coalition  कि   रोका   the  Panic of 1907  .
He  थी  the leading financier  of  the Progressive Era  ,  and  उसके  dedication to efficiency and modernization helped transform  अमरीकी  business  .
This is  a  list  of   एपीसोड   of   the   टेलीविज़न   श्रेणी   .
The episodes were  निर्देशित   by  Shigeru  ueda   और  produced  by  the Yggdrasil  कार्यपालिका   कमेटी  which included Xebec and Genco  .
the  plot of the episodes is  नियत  in Tokyo  और  revolves around  रिन  Asōgi  ,  an  अमर  private investigator  ,   as  she explores the secrets  of   आधुनिक  and  near-future   संसार  and the supernatural events that  घेर  the fictional  समाज   of  immortals like  herself  .
There are large time gaps in the internal chronology between  the   पहला   पाँच  episodes ,  ranging  from one to thirty  सालो  .
The  छह  episodes  यहूद  broadcast monthly on  at-x  channel in Japan  ,  between February 3  और   जुलाई   6  ,  2008  .
प्रत्येक  episode is  45  minutes long  .
Two pieces of  थीम   म्यूज़िक  are  प्रयुक्त  for  the  episodes  :  the opening theme ``  alsatia  ''  और   the  ending theme `` Cause Disarray '' .
दोनो  were  रचित  and performed  by   the   जापानी   मेटल   बैंड   galneryus  .
the  series  थी   उत्पादित   to   commemorate   the  tenth  वर्षगांठ   of   the   at-x  network it originally aired  on  .
Aerial photo  of   fletc   ,  where  us   डिजिटल  forensics standards were  विकसित   in   the  1980s and  '90s
Digital  forensics  ( sometimes known  as   डिजिटल  forensic science  )  is  a  branch of  forensic  science  encompassing  the  रिकवरी  and  छानबीन  of material found in digital  डिवाइस  ,  प्रायः  in  संबंध  to computer  अपराधों  .
the   पद   डिजिटल  forensics  थी   originally   प्रयुक्त  as a  पर्याय  for computer forensics but has expanded to  कवर   छानबीन   of  all devices capable  of  storing digital  आंकड़ा   .
साथ  roots  in  the personal computing revolution of  the   लेट   1970s   और  early '80s ,  the   अनुशासन   विकसित  in a haphazard  manner  during the  1990s  , and it was not until the  जल्दी  21st  सदी  that  नेशनल  policies emerged .
डिजिटल   forensics   investigations  have a variety  of   अनुप्रयोग  .
The most  आम  is to  support  or refute  a  hypothesis  पहले  criminal or  सिविल  ( as part  of  the  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  discovery  प्रक्रम  )  न्यायालयों   .
Forensics  may  also feature in  the  private  सेक्टर   ;  such as during  आतंरिक  corporate investigations or intrusion investigation  (  a specialist  जांच  into  the  nature  और  extent  of  an unauthorized network intrusion  )  .
the  technical  पहलू  of  an   छानबीन   is   विभाजित   into  several  sub-branches  , relating to  the  type of digital  डिवाइस  involved  ;  computer forensics , network  forensics   ,   forensic  data  विश्लेषण   और   मोबाईल  device forensics .
the   ठेठ  forensic process encompasses  the  seizure  ,  forensic imaging  (   अधिग्रहण   )  and analysis  of  digital  मीडिया  and the production  of  a report into  एकत्रित  evidence .
As well  as   identifying  direct evidence  of   a  crime , digital  forensics  can be  प्रयुक्त  to  विशेषता   प्रमाण  to specific suspects , confirm alibis or statements , determine intent  ,  identify  स्त्रोत   (  for example  ,   in   कापीराइट  cases  )   ,  or authenticate documents .
Investigations are much broader in scope  than  other areas  of  forensic analysis  (  where the usual aim  is  to provide  जवाब  to  a   श्रेणी   of  simpler  सवाल  ) often involving  जटिल   time-lines  or hypotheses .
A  तुलना  of the chromaticities  enclosed  by some color spaces .
A  रंग   मॉडल   is   an   अमूर्त  mathematical model describing the way colors can be represented as  tuples  of  संख्याएँ   ,  typically as three or  चार  values  or   रंग  components (  e.g  . RGB and CMYK  हैं   रंग   मॉडल  ) .
However , a color  मॉडल  with no  संबद्ध  mapping  फलन  to  an   निरपेक्ष  color space is a more  or  less  मनमानी  color system  साथ   no  connection to any globally understood system  of  color interpretation  .
Adding a certain mapping  फलन  between  the   रंग  model  और  a certain reference color  स्पेस   परिणाम  in  a   definite  `` footprint '' within the reference color space .
This  ``   पदचिह्न  '' is known as a  gamut  , and  ,   in  combination with the  रंग   मॉडल  , defines a  नई  color space .
For example , Adobe RGB and sRGB are two  अलग  absolute color spaces  ,  both based on  the  RGB  मॉडल  .
in  the most  जेनेरिक  sense  of  the definition  ऊपर  , color spaces can be defined without the use  of   a  color model  .
These spaces , such as Pantone , are in  प्रभाव  a  दिए  set  of  names or  संख्याएँ   जिससे  are  पारिभाषित   by   the  existence  of   a   सम्बन्धित   नियत   of  physical  रंग  swatches .
इस  article  focuses  on the mathematical model concept .
Labor  दिन   is  an  अमरीकी   संघीय   अवकाश   observed  on the  पहला  Monday in  सितंबर  ,  कि   मनाता   the   आर्थिक   और  social  योगदान  of  मजदूर   .
Life  बीमे  is a contract between an  insured  ( insurance policy  होल्डर  ) and an  insurer  , where the  insurer   वादे  to pay a designated  लाभार्थी  a sum of  धन  ( the `` benefits  ''  ) upon the death of the  insured  person .
Depending on  the  contract , other events such  as  terminal illness  or  critical illness  may  also trigger payment .
The policy holder typically  pays  a premium , either regularly or as  a   lump   योग   .
Other expenses (  ऐसे  as  अंत्येष्टि  expenses  )   हैं  also sometimes included  in  the benefits .
जीवन  policies are legal  अनुबंध  and the terms  of   the   अनुबंध  describe the limitations  of   the  insured events  .
विशिष्ट  exclusions are often written  into  the contract  to  limit the liability of  the   insurer  ; common  उदाहरण   हैं   दावा  relating  to  suicide , fraud  ,  war , riot  और   सिविल   commotion   .
Life-based  अनुबंध  tend to fall into  दो   प्रमुख   categories:
Protection policies – designed to  provide  a  लाभ  in  the   इवेंट  of  निर्दिष्ट  event , typically a lump  योग   भुगतान   .
a   आम  form  of   इस   डिज़ाइन  is  पद  insurance  .
Investment  नीतियों  –  जहाँ  the main objective is to facilitate the growth  of   पूंजी  by  नियमित   or  single  प्रीमियम  .
Common  फ़ॉर्म  (  in  the US )  हैं   पूरे   जीवन  , universal  जीवन  and variable life policies  .
{  {   infobox  Holiday
चाइनीज   नई   साल
9   –  12 February  (   वियतनाम   )
Mitzi  gaynor  Donahue  (   born  May  2  ,  1962   in  Yorba  लिंडा  ,  नारंगी  County ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   )   is  an American actress , also  credited   और  more popularly  ज्ञात   as  Mitzi Kapture .
kapture  began  उसके  career in  films  ,  सबसे   of  which were  नहीं  huge commercial  सफलताओं  .
वो  went on to  मेक   a  few television guest  दिखावे  ( MacGyver  ,  1st &  टेन   ,   और   as  a contestant on The  $  100,000  पिरामिड   )  before  वो  gained  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  exposure with her first major television role  as   सार्जेंट   रीता  Lee Lance in the television  श्रेणी   रेशा  Stalkings .
Kapture  's  role  as   रीता  , the  अन्य  half of the two ``  sams  ''  लिये  almost 5  सालो  ,  cemented  her  लोकप्रियता  .
युग्म  with Rob Estes  जो   निभाई  Sergeant  क्रिस   lorenzo   ,   kapture  gained  वैश्विक   मान्यता   साथ  with her  costar  since the  दिखाएँ   थी  broadcast  in  several  देशों  .
Sergeant Lance eventually became  लेफ्टिनेंट   तलवार  by the  समय  Kapture left  the  series  in  1995 to  have  her  पहला   चाइल्ड   मैडिसन  .
During  उसके   समय   साथ  the  श्रेणी   ,  Kapture briefly  सत  in the director  's   कुर्सी  , for  दो  episodes  .
She was  interviewed   लिये  the Silk Stalkings Season 1 DVD which  थी   वितरित  by Anchor Bay Entertainment  और  released in  सितंबर   2004   .
After a short  अंतराल  from the  स्क्रीन   following  her  निकास  from  रेशा  Stalkings  ,  Kapture  लौटे  in  1997  to  the  small  स्क्रीन  and  यूएसए  Network  .
वो   निभाई   सीसे  roles in two  यूएसए   तस्वीरें  Originals telemovies  ,  Perfect Crime ( based on a  सच्चा  story , also called Hide  और   तलाश   :  The Joanne  जेन्सेन   स्टोरी  )  ,  which also starred Jasmine Guy and His Bodyguard .
She  बाद  starred in  a  few  अन्य  independent film projects  और  theatre productions and had several television guest appearances .
Kapture  भी  had  a  recurring role  on   बेवाच  as Alexis  ryker   .
She played  अनीता  Hodges  on  The  यंग   और  the  बेचैन   इससे  2002  through  2004 , where she was  credited   as  Mitzi Kapture  donahue  , and starred in  the  made-for-TV movie Night of Terror which premiered March 26 , 2006 on  आजीवन   संजाल  .
Her latest is a supporting role  in   परमेश्वर  's Ears ,  released  in 2007  .
Kapture is  the  official celebrity spokesperson  लिये  the Xeroderma  pigmentosum   समाज  .
the  Xbox 360 is the second video game  कंसोल   विकसित   by   और   उत्पादित   लिये   microsoft  and the successor to  the  Xbox .
The  एक्सबॉक्स  360 competes with Sony 's PlayStation 3  और  Nintendo 's Wii  as   भाग  of  the   सातवाँ   पीढी   of   वीडियो  game  consoles  .
as  of  सितंबर  30 , 2012 , 70 million Xbox  360  consoles have  महरूम  sold worldwide  .
The Xbox 360 was officially  अनावरण   on   एमटीवी   on  May 12  ,  2005 ,  साथ  detailed  लॉन्च  and game information  divulged  later  कि  month at  the   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   entertainment  Expo  (   e3   )  .
The  कंसोल   बेची  out  completely   upon  release in  सब   regions   मगर  in  जापानी   .
Several  प्रमुख  features of the Xbox 360 are its integrated  एक्सबॉक्स   सजीव  service that allows  खिलाड़ी  to compete online  ;   डाउनलोड   आर्केड  games ,  खेल  demos  ,   trailers   ,  TV  shows  , music  और  movies  ;   और  its Windows  मीडिया   बीच   मल्टीमीडिया  capabilities .
The Xbox  सजीव  also offers  अभिगम  to various ( often region-specific )  third-party  media  स्ट्रीमिंग   अनुप्रयोग   .
at  their  e3  presentation  on  June 14  ,   2010   ,  Microsoft announced a redesigned Xbox 360 that would  जलयान  on the same day .
the  redesigned console  is   slimmer   than  the previous Xbox  360  model and  सुविधाएँ  integrated 802.11 b/g/n  wi-fi  ,  toslink  S/PDIF optical  ऑडियो  output , five  usb  2.0  पोर्ट   (   compared   to  the three  इससे   पुरानी   संस्करण  ) and  a  special AUX port .
Older  मॉडल   of  the  एक्सबॉक्स   360   have   चूंकि  been discontinued .
The  पहला  new console to  be  released  सुविधाएँ  a 250 GB hard drive , while  a   बाद  , less expensive SKU  सुविधाएँ  4 GB internal storage .
Backpack  may   भी  refer  to  a 2001 novel  by  Emily Barr
a  modern  backpack
स्विस   फौज  backpack ca . 1960
Integrated  तुमको   फ़्रेम   .
a  backpack  (   भी   पुकारा  rucksack , knapsack , packsack  ,  pack )  is   ,  in  इसके  simplest  रूप   ,  a  cloth  sack  carried  on one 's  वापस  and secured with  दो  straps that  go   over   the  shoulders , but there can be exceptions  .
lightweight   प्रकार  of  backpacks  are sometimes worn  on   तभी  one shoulder  डोरी   .
Backpacks are often preferred  to  handbags  लिये   carrying   भारी   loads   or   carrying   कोई   sort   of  equipment , because of the limited  क्षमता   to  carry heavy  weights  for long periods of time  in   the   हैंड्स  .
Large backpacks ,  प्रयुक्त   to   carry  loads  over  10 kg ( 22 lbs )  ,   प्रायः  offload  the  largest part ( up to about  90   %   )  of  उनके  weight  onto   padded  hip  बेल्ट   ,   leaving  the shoulder straps  मुख्यतः   लिये   stabilising  the  लोड  .
This  improves  the  संभावित  to carry heavy  loads   ,   as  the hips are stronger than  the  shoulders  ,   और   भी  increases  चपलता   और   संतुलन   ,  since the load rides  nearer  the wearer 's own  बीच  of mass .
In  प्राचीन   टाइम्स   ,  the backpack  थी  used as  a  means to carry  the  hunter 's  larger  game  और  other types  of  prey  और  as a  रास्ता  of easier transport for other  सामग्री  .
in   the   मामले  of  larger  hunts , the hunters would  dismember  their prey and  वितरित  the pieces  of  the  एनिमल  around  ,  each one  पैकिंग  the meat  into  many wrappings  और   तब   into  bags  जिससे   वे  placed on  to  their backs  .
The  थैला  itself  थी   बना   up  of different animal hide and skin  (   depending  on what  sorts  of  पशु  were in the area  )   और  sewn  साथ   by  the intestines of said  पशु  ,  जिससे  were  woven   साथ   tightly  to  मेक   a   sturdy  thread-like  सामग्री  .
Mexico  (  ;  ;   )  ,  officially  the  संयुक्त   मैक्सिकन  States  (  )  ,   is   a  federal constitutional republic  in  North America .
It is bordered  on   the  north by the  संयुक्त   राज्य  ; on the south and west by  the  Pacific Ocean  ;   on   the   southeast  by Guatemala , Belize ,  और  the  caribbean  Sea  ;  and on  the  east by the Gulf  of  Mexico .
covering  almost  दो  million square kilometres  (   over   760,000  sq  mi   )   ,  Mexico is the fifth  largest   देश   in  the Americas  by   कुल  area and  the   13th   largest  independent  स्वदेश  in the world .
साथ  an estimated population  of  over  113  million , it is  the   संसार  's eleventh  सबसे  populous  देश  and the most  populous   spanish-speaking  country .
Mexico  is   a   संघ  comprising thirty-one states and a  संघीय  District  ,  the  पूंजी  city .
In pre-Columbian Mexico  अनेक  cultures matured into  उन्नत   सभ्यताओं  such as the Olmec  ,   the  Toltec ,  the   teotihuacan  ,  the   zapotec   ,   the   माया   और  the  एज़टेक  before first contact with  europeans  .
In 1521 ,  स्पेन   conquered  and colonized the territory  इससे  its base in México-Tenochtitlan  ,  which was  administered  as  the  Viceroyalty of  नई   स्पेन  .
This territory  होता  eventually become Mexico  following  recognition of the  उपनिवेश   's  independence  in  1821  .
The post-independence  काल  was characterized  by  economic instability ,  the  Mexican-American War  और  territorial cession  to  the United States ,  a   सिविल   युद्ध  , two  empires   और   a  domestic dictatorship  .
The  latter  led  to  the Mexican Revolution  in  1910 ,  जिससे  culminated  साथ  the  promulgation   of   the  1917  संविधान  and  the   emergence   of  the country  's  current  राजनैतिक   प्रणाली   .
चुनावों  held  in   जुलाई   2000  marked the first  समय   कि  an opposition party won the  प्रेसिडेंसी  from  the   संस्थागत   क्रांतिकारी   पार्टी  .
Since 2006  the  country  रै   महरूम   in   the  midst of a drug war which  रै  caused  60,000  deaths  .
Mexico has  एक   of  the world 's largest  economies  ,  और   is  considered both  a  regional  शक्ति  and  मध्य   शक्ति  .
In addition  ,  Mexico was the first Latin American member  of   the  Organisation  लिये   आर्थिक   co-operation  and Development OECD  (  since  1994  ) ,  और   माना  an upper-middle  आय  country by the World Bank  .
मैक्सिको  is considered a  newly   industrialized  country  और   an  emerging power  .
It has  the   fourteenth  largest nominal  जीडीपी   और   the   eleventh  largest GDP by  खरीदना  power parity .
The economy is strongly  linked   to  those  of  its  उत्तर  American  फ़्री   व्यापार  Agreement (  nafta   )  partners , especially the United  राज्य  of America  .
मैक्सिको   बाँधने   छठे  in  the  world  और   पहला   in   the   americas   by   क्रमांक   of  UNESCO  संसार  Heritage Sites  साथ   31   ,   और  in 2007 was  the   दसवाँ  most visited country in the world with 21.4 million international arrivals per  साल  .
Babe Ruth  holds   the  MLB  करियर  slugging  प्रतिशत   रिकार्ड  ( .690  )  .
in   बेसबॉल  statistics ,  slugging   प्रतिशत   (  abbreviated SLG ) is a  लोकप्रिय  measure of  the  power of a hitter  .
it  is calculated as total  bases  divided  by  at bats :
जहाँ  AB is the number of at-bats for a  दिए  player  ,  and 1B  ,   2b  , 3B ,  और  HR are  the  number of  singles  ,  युगल  , triples , and  घर   रनों  ,  क्रमशः  .
सैर  are specifically excluded from  इस  calculation .
For  उदाहरण   ,  in 1920 ,  बेब  Ruth  निभाई   उसके   पहला   ऋतु  for the  नई  York  यांकीज़  .
In 458  at   bats   ,  Ruth  था  172  हिट्स  , comprising  73   singles   ,   36  doubles ,  9  triples  ,   और  54  घर  runs , which  brings   the  total  आधार  count  to  ( 73  ×  1  )   +   (  36 ×  2  ) + ( 9 × 3 ) +  (  54  ×  4 ) = 388  .
His total  क्रमांक   of  bases (  388  ) divided  by  his  कुल   at-bats   (  458 )  is  .847  ,  his slugging percentage for the  ऋतु  .
the   अगला  year  he  slugged .846  ,  and these records  गई  unbroken until 2001  ,  when  बैरी  Bonds achieved  411   bases   in   476  at-bats  ,   bringing   उसके   slugging  percentage to .863 ,  बेमेल  since .
is a role-playing  वीडियो  game developed  और   प्रकाशित   by  Square  (  now  वर्गाकार  Enix  )  for the Super  निन्टेंडो   entertainment  System  in  1995  .
chrono  Trigger 's development  टोली   शामिल  three designers that  वर्गाकार   उतावले  the `` Dream  टोली   ''   :  Hironobu  sakaguchi  , the creator  of  Square  's  Final  काल्पनिक  series ; Yuji  horii  , a  freelance  designer  और   निर्माता   of  Enix  's  popular Dragon Quest series ; and  अकिरा   toriyama  , a  freelance  manga artist famed for his work with  ड्रैगन   क्वेस्ट   और   ड्रैगन  Ball  .
Kazuhiko  aoki  produced the  खेल  ,  masato   काटो   लिखा   सबसे  of  the  plot ,  जबकि  composer Yasunori Mitsuda scored  सबसे  of  the  game before falling  बीमार  and deferring remaining tracks to Final  काल्पनिक  composer  nobuo  Uematsu .
The game  's   स्टोरी  follows a  समूह   of  adventurers who travel  through  time to  prevent   a   वैश्विक  catastrophe .
वर्गाकार   re-released   a  ported  संस्करण   by   tose  in  जापानी   लिये  Sony  's  PlayStation in  1999  ,  बाद  repackaged with a Final  काल्पनिक   iv  port as Final  काल्पनिक  Chronicles  in   2001   लिये  the North American market  .
A slightly  उन्नत  Chrono Trigger  थी  released for the  निन्टेंडो  DS on November  25   ,  2008  ,   in  North America  और  Japan , and went on sale  in  Australia  on   फ़रवरी  3 , 2009  और  in  यूरोपीय  on  फ़रवरी  6  ,  2009 .
the   खेल  was never  released   in   pal   territories   पहले  the  निन्टेंडो  DS  संस्करण  .
chrono  Trigger was a  नाजुक  and commercial success upon release and  is   माना   आज  to  be  one  of   the  greatest video games  of   सब  time .
Nintendo  शक्ति  magazine described aspects of Chrono  ट्रिगर  as revolutionary  ,   सहित   इसके   अनेक  endings ,  plot-related  sidequests focusing  on  character development , unique battle  प्रणाली  , and  विस्तृत  graphics .
Chrono Trigger was the third  best-selling  game  of   1995   ,  and  the  game 's  snes  and  प्लेस्टेशन   iterations   have  shipped  2.65  million copies as  of  March 2003 .
The  संस्करण  for  the   निन्टेंडो   ds  sold 790,000  नक़ल  as of March 2009  .
Chrono Trigger  थी   भी   ported  to mobile  फोन   ,   आभासी   कंसोल   ,  the  प्लेस्टेशन  Network (  तभी   in  the  यूएसए  )  ,   आईओएस  devices  ,  and  एंड्रॉइड   डिवाइस  .
बकरी   चीज
Goat  चीज   ,   or   chèvre  ( from the  फ्रेंच  word for  बकरी  ) , is cheese  बना  out of  the  milk of goats  .
अतिताप   is  elevated body  तापमान   due   to  failed thermoregulation  कि   occurs   जब  a body  produces  or  absorbs  more heat than it dissipates .
Extreme  तापमान   उन्नयन  then becomes a  चिकित्सा   आपात   requiring  immediate  उपचार   to   prevent  disability  or   मौत  .
The most  आम   कल्याणकारी   शामिल   ऊष्मा  stroke and  प्रतिकूल  reactions to drugs .
The former is  an   अधि  temperature elevation  caused  by exposure to excessive heat , or  संयोजन   of   ऊष्मा  and humidity ,  कि   overwhelms  the  heat-regulating  mechanisms .
The latter is a relatively  विरल   पक्ष  effect of  अनेक  drugs , particularly those that affect  the   सेंट्रल   बेचैन  system  .
Malignant hyperthermia is  a  rare complication of  कुछ  types  of   सामान्य  anesthesia .
अतिताप   can  also  be  deliberately  induced  using  दवाएँ   or  medical  डिवाइस   और   may   be  used  in   the   उपचार  of some kinds  of  cancer  और   अन्य  conditions , most commonly in  संयोजन  with  radiotherapy  .
Hyperthermia  differs  from  ज्वर  in  कि  the body 's  तापमान   नियत  point remains unchanged .
The opposite is hypothermia  ,   जिससे  occurs  जब  the  तापमान  drops  नीचे   कि  required to  maintain   सामान्य  metabolism .
Belize , is  a   देश  located on  the   northeastern  coast of  सेंट्रल   अमेरिका  .
It is  the   तभी   देश  in  the   क्षेत्रफल  where  अंग्रेज़ी  is  the   आधिकारिक  language  ,  although  kriol   और  Spanish are more  commonly  spoken .
बेलीज़  is  bordered  on the  उत्तर  by  मैक्सिको  ,  to  the south and  वेस्ट  by Guatemala  और  to the east  by  the Caribbean  समुद्र  .
Its  मेनलैंड   is   परिचय   long  and  चौड़ी   .
With  of  land and a population of  तभी   312,698   निवासियों   (  2010  जनसांख्यिकी   )   ,  Belize  possesses  the lowest  जनसांख्यिकी   घनत्व  in  सेंट्रल  America .
The  देश  's population  विकास  rate  of   3.15  % ( 2012  est  . )  is   the   दूसरी   उच्चतम  in the  प्रदेश   और  one  of  the highest  in  the  पश्चिमी  hemisphere .
Belize 's abundance of  स्थलीय   और  marine  प्रजाति  , and  इसके   विविधता   of  ecosystems give  it   a   कुंजी  place within the  globally   significant   mesoamerican  Biological Corridor  .
Belize has a diverse society , comprising many cultures  और  languages  .
It is  the   तभी  nation in  the   प्रदेश  with a British  औपनिवेशिक  heritage  ,  but as  a   भाग  of  the  Western  caribbean   मण्डल   ,   it  also shares  a  common heritage with the fellow Anglophone  caribbean   देशों  .
in  general ,  बेलीज़   is  considered to  be  a  सेंट्रल  American  और   caribbean  nation  साथ   दमदार  ties  to  both the  caribbean   और  Latin  अमेरिका   .
बेलीज़   is   a  member  of   the   caribbean  Community  (   caricom   )  , the Community  of   लैटिन  American and Caribbean  राज्य  ( CELAC ) ,  और  Central American  संयोजन  System ( SICA  )   .
Belize  is   ज्ञात  for  इसके   सितंबर  Celebrations ,  और   is  the birthplace  of  chewing  गम   और  Punta Rock  .
the  ``  बेट्सी  Ross ''  ध्वज
a  `` Betsy  रॉस  '' flag  उड़ती  outside San  फ्रांसिस्को  City Hall
The  बेट्सी   रॉस  flag is an early  डिज़ाइन  of  the   ध्वज  of  the  United  राज्य  ,  popularly   attributed  to Betsy Ross  ,  using the common motifs  of   प्रत्यावर्ती   red-and-white   धारीदार   फ़ील्ड  with five-pointed  सितारों  in a  ब्लू  canton .
The flag was designed during the American Revolution  और  features  13  stars  to  represent the original 13  colonies  .
The distinctive feature of the  रॉस  flag is  the  arrangement of  the  stars in a circle .
हालांकि  the Betsy  रॉस   स्टोरी   is  accepted by most Americans  ,   कुछ   ध्वज  historians and  revisionists   do   नहीं  accept the  बेट्सी   रॉस  design as the  पहला  American flag .
According to the traditional  खाता  ,  the  original flag was  बना  in June 1776 , when  a   छोटी  committee—including  जार्ज  Washington ,  रॉबर्ट   मॉरिस  and relative George  रॉस   —visited   बेट्सी  and  discussed   the   need  for a  नई  American flag  .
Betsy  स्वीकृत  the  जॉब   to   manufacture   the  flag , altering  the  committee  's  design by  replacing   the   six-pointed  stars with five-pointed  सितारों   .
While  the  Betsy  रॉस  legend is  questionable  , the  ध्वज  design is known to have been  in  use by 1777 ;  अल्फ्रेड   b  .  गली  described it at the  आत्मसमर्पण   of   सामान्य   burgoyne  and understood the  वृत्त   of  stars to represent equality  among  the American states .
It  is  one of the oldest versions of  u.S.   ध्वज  known to exist  ;   जबकि  it is  नहीं   the  oldest surviving flag  centuries  in cloth  रूप  ,  इसके  likeness appears on older physical relics  ,  namely  ,   the  contemporary  रणभूमि  paintings  by  John Trumbull and Charles Willson Peale  .
They depict  the   गोलाकार  star  व्यवस्था   होने  flown from  जलयान   masts   और  many other places ,  और   यूँ   provide  the first  ज्ञात   ऐतिहासिक   दस्तावेज़ीकरण  of the flag 's appearance .
The seal  of  the U.S. Department of Veterans  अफेयर्स   उपयोग   the  Betsy  रॉस  flag  to   represent   सेवा   to  all  दिग्गजों   इससे  the  अमरीकी   क्रान्ति   to  the present day .
the  Betsy  रॉस  design of  13-star  US flags has been featured in many popular  artworks  ( sometimes  inaccurately   ,   as  in Washington Crossing the Delaware ) and films , such  as  the 1960 version of  pollyanna   .
the  flag  continues  to be  एक  of  the   सबसे  popular  प्रतीकों   of  the American Revolution .
a  purr is a  ध्वनि   बना   by  all  प्रजाति  of felids and  is   a   भाग   of   बिल्ली  communication .
It varies  between   बिल्लियों   (  for  उदाहरण  by loudness and  टोन   )  , and  इससे   प्रजाति   to  species ,  लकिन  can be  characterized   as   a  tonal  गुलजार  .
the  term `` purring ''  रै   महरूम  used  liberally  in  साहित्य  ,  और   it  has been claimed that viverrids  (   सीविट   ,  mongoose  ,  genet )  ,  bears ,  badgers   ,  hyaenas  (  et  cetera   )   purr   .
अन्य  animals  कि  have  महरूम  said to purr  हैं  rabbits ,  squirrels  , guinea  सूअर  , tapirs  ,  ring-tailed lemurs ,  हाथियों   ,   raccoons  and gorillas while eating  .
However ,  using  a strict  परिभाषा   of   purring   कि  continuous  ध्वनि   उत्पादन   जरूर   वैकल्पिक  between  pulmonic  egressive and ingressive airstream  (  and usually go  on   लिये   मिनट्स  ) ,  पीटर्स  ( 2002 )  ,  in an exhaustive review of  the  scientific literature , reached the conclusion that until then only ‘purring  cats’  ( Felidae  )  and  दो  species  of  genets , Genetta tigrina  ,  and most likely also  genetta  genetta  ,  had  महरूम  documented to purr .
the  platypus (  ornithorhynchus  anatinus ) is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to eastern  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , including Tasmania  .
साथ   साथ   the   चार   प्रजाति   of  echidna , it is  एक  of the five extant  प्रजाति  of monotremes ,  the  only mammals  कि   lay  eggs  बजाय  of giving  जनम   .
It is the  एकमात्र   जीना  representative  of   इसके   परिवार   (  Ornithorhynchidae  )  and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ) , though  a   क्रमांक  of related  प्रजाति   have  been found  in   the  fossil record .
the  unusual appearance of this egg-laying , duck  -billed   ,  beaver  -tailed   ,   otter  -footed  स्तनधारी  baffled European naturalists when  वे   पहला   encountered  it  ,   साथ  some  considering  it  an   विस्तृत  fraud  .
It  is  one of the  few  venomous mammals  ,   the   पुरूष   platypus   having  a spur on the hind  पैर  that  delivers  a  venom  capable  of  causing  कठोर  pain  to  humans .
The  अद्वितीय   सुविधाएँ  of  the  platypus  मेक  it an important  विषय  in the study  of  evolutionary biology and a  recognisable   और  iconic symbol of  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   ;   it  has  appeared  as a mascot  at  national events and  is   प्रदर्शित  on  the   रिवर्स  of  इसके   20-cent   सिक्का  .
the   platypus  is the animal  emblem   of  the  राज्य  of  नई   दक्षिण  Wales .
Until  the  early  20th   सदी  ,  it  was  hunted   लिये   इसके   फर   ,   लकिन  it is  अभी   सुरक्षित  throughout its range  .
Although captive breeding programmes  have  had only limited success and  the   platypus  is vulnerable to the  प्रभाव   of  pollution  ,  it is  नहीं   अंतर्गत  any immediate  threat  .
st.   एलिज़ाबेथ  is a village  in   मिलर  County , Missouri ,  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
the   जनसांख्यिकी   थी  336 at the 2010 census  .
wilton  is a  census-designated  place ( CDP )  in  Sacramento  काउंटी  , California , United States .
it  is part of the  sacramento   –  Arden-Arcade – Roseville Metropolitan Statistical Area .
The population  थी  5,363  at  the  2010   जनसांख्यिकी  , up  इससे   4,551   at  the  2000  census .
In human-computer interaction , cut and  paste  and copy and paste  हैं   सम्बन्धित  commands that offer a user-interface interaction  तकनीक   लिये  transferring text , data , files  or  objects  इससे   a   सोर्स   to  a destination .
Most  ubiquitously   ,  users  आवश्यकता  the  क्षमता  to cut and paste sections of plain text .
The  काटें   कमांड  removes the selected  आंकड़ा  from  इसके   असली  position ,  जबकि   the   नक़ल   कमांड  creates a  नकल  ;  in   दोनो  cases the selected data is placed in  a   clipboard   .
The  आंकड़ा  in the clipboard is later inserted in  the  position where the paste  कमांड   is  issued .
The  कमांड  names are  an  interface metaphor based  on  the physical procedure used in manuscript editing  to   बनाएँ  a  पेज  layout  .
This  बातचीत  technique  रै  close associations with  सम्बन्धित  techniques in graphical  उपयोक्ता   अंतरफलक  that use pointing  डिवाइस   ऐसे   as   a   कंप्यूटर  mouse (  by  drag and drop  ,   लिये  example  )  .
आर्थिक   अनुक्रम   मात्रा   is   the   अनुक्रम   मात्रा  that minimizes  कुल   inventory  holding costs  और  ordering  लागत   .
it   is   एक   of   the  oldest  शास्त्रीय   उत्पादन  scheduling models  .
the   फ्रेमवर्क   प्रयुक्त  to determine this order  मात्रा   is  also known  as  Barabas EOQ Model  or  Barabas  सूत्र   .
The model  थी   विकसित  by  घाट  W. Harris in 1913 ,  लकिन  R. H. Wilson ,  a   सलाहकार   जो   लागू  it extensively  ,  is given credit for  उसके  in-depth analysis  .
Stephen  ``  Stevie ''  रे  Vaughan  (  October 3 ,  1954   –   अगस्त  27 , 1990 )  थी   an   अमरीकी  guitarist ,  singer-songwriter   ,  and  रिकार्ड   निर्माता   .
Often referred to by  उसके   आद्याक्षर  SRV ,  vaughan  is best known as  a   founding   सदस्य  and leader of Double  ट्रबल  .
Together  साथ   वादक  Chris Layton  और   bassist   टॉमी  Shannon , they ignited  the   ब्लूज़  revival  of  the 1980s .
With a career spanning seven  सालो  ,  vaughan  and Double  ट्रबल   consistently   बेची   आउट   कॉन्सर्ट   जबकि  their  एल्बम  frequently went  सुनहरा  .
He  थी   born   और   उठाया  in Dallas ,  टेक्सास  , and for a short  काल   of   समय  lived  in   ग्राहम  ,  टेक्सास   .
as  the  younger   bhai  of Jimmie Vaughan , Vaughan started playing the guitar at age seven  और  formed several  bands  that  occasionally   performed  in  लोकल  nightclubs .
At age 17  ,  he dropped out  of  high school  और  moved to Austin  to   further   pursue   उसके   musical  career  ,  joining groups such as Krackerjack ,  the  Nightcrawlers  ,  and the Cobras .
In 1977  ,   he   formed  Triple Threat Revue , a  बैंड   कि   आखिरकार   विकसित   into  Double  ट्रबल  and  regularly  performed  around  Austin .
In  1982  ,  vaughan  and Double  ट्रबल  performed at  the   montreux   जैज़  Festival  in   स्विट्ज़रलैंड   ,  catching the  ध्यान  of  संगीतकारों  David  बोवी   और  Jackson  browne   .
Bowie  पूछा   vaughan  to  खेल   on  his upcoming  स्टुडियो  album Let 's Dance ,  जबकि  Browne offered the band  फ़्री  use of his personal  स्टुडियो   in   लॉस  Angeles  to  record an  एल्बम   .
In  कूच  1983 ,  vaughan   और   दोगुना  Trouble were signed to Epic Records by  दिग्गज  record  निर्माता  John Hammond Sr.  और  released their debut  एल्बम  , Texas Flood in  जून  of that  साल  .
बाद  successful  touring  , the  समूह   released  the albums ,  could  n't  स्टैंड  the Weather (  1984   )  and  आत्मा  to  आत्मा   (   1985   )   ,   the  latter of  जिससे  featured new  keyboardist   रीज़   wynans  .
Although his career  था  progressed  सफलतापूर्वक  ,  vaughan   checked  into a rehabilitation hospital  in  Atlanta ,  जॉर्जिया  to give up a  कोका   और  alcohol habit  और  returned to touring  साथ   the   बैंड  .
in   जून  1989 ,  in   कदम  was released  और  earned them a Grammy Award  लिये   बेहतरीन  Contemporary Blues Performance  .
on  August 27 ,  1990  ,  vaughan   थी   मारे   in   a   हेलीकाप्टर  crash  following  a performance in East Troy , Wisconsin .
vaughan  's uniquely  eclectic  yet intense style was derived from a  किस्में  of musical genres .
He  थी  influenced by blues musicians including Albert  किंग  ,  फ्रेडी  King ,  ओटिस  Rush  ,  and  muddy   waters  ,  और  rock  guitarists  such  as  Jimi  हेंड्रिक्स  and Lonnie  mack  .
उसके   गिटार  playing reflected the classic blues  और   pentatonic   तराजू  .
He has received wide  नाजुक   मान्यता  for  उसके   गिटार  playing ,  रैंकिंग  at # 6 on Rolling Stones list  of   ``  100 Greatest  guitarists   ''  in 2011  .
He was posthumously  inducted   into  the  ब्लूज़  Hall of Fame  in  2000 and a memorial  प्रतिमा   थी  erected  in  Austin  's  Auditorium Shores park  .
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely  माना   to  be one  of  the greatest musicians to come  इससे  the state  of   टेक्सास  .
the  Las  वेगास   स्ट्रिप  World  of   coca-cola  museum in  2003
Coca-Cola is  a  carbonated  नरम  drink  बेची  in stores , restaurants  ,  and vending machines in every country except Cuba and  उत्तर   कोरियाई  .
it   is   उत्पादित  by  the   coca-cola   कम्पनी  of  अटलांटा   ,   जॉर्जिया  , and is often referred  to  simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of  the   coca-cola   कम्पनी  in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  since March 27  ,  1944 )  .
originally  intended as  a  patent  आयुर्विज्ञान  when  it  was  invented   in  the late  19th  century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola was bought out by  बिजनेसमैन  Asa Griggs Candler ,  जिनकी  marketing  tactics  led Coke  to   इसके  dominance of the world  soft-drink  market throughout  the  20th century .
The company  produces  concentrate  ,   जिससे   is  then sold to  licensed  Coca-Cola bottlers  throughout  the world .
the  bottlers  ,  who hold territorially  विशेष  contracts with the  कम्पनी   ,   उपज   समाप्त  product in cans and bottles  इससे  the  concentrate  in  संयोजन  with filtered water  और  sweeteners .
The bottlers  तब  sell ,  वितरित  and merchandise Coca-Cola  to  retail  स्टोर्स  and vending machines .
Such bottlers  शामिल  Coca-Cola Enterprises , which is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in North America  और   पश्चिमी  Europe  .
The  coca-cola  Company also sells  concentrate   लिये   सोडा  fountains to major restaurants and  खाना  service distributors .
The Coca-Cola  कम्पनी  has  ,  on  अवसर   ,  introduced other cola drinks under  the   कोक  brand name .
The most  आम  of these is  आहार  Coke , with  अन्य  including  caffeine-free   coca-cola  , Diet  कोक   caffeine-free  , Coca-Cola Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero , Coca-Cola Vanilla  ,   और   खास  versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based  on  Interbrand 's  बेहतरीन   वैश्विक   ब्रांड  2011  ,   coca-cola   थी  the world  's   सबसे  valuable  ब्रांड  .
Barry Louis Larkin (  born  April 28 , 1964 )  is   a  retired  प्रमुख  League Baseball player .
larkin  played shortstop for the  सिनसिनाटी   लाल  from 1986  to  2004  और  was one  of   the  pivotal  खिलाड़ी  on the  1990  Reds  '  World  श्रेणी  championship team  .
Larkin was elected to the National Baseball  हॉल   of   कीर्ति   in  January 2012 and was  inducted  on  जुलाई   22   .
Larkin is considered one of  the   शीर्ष  players of  उसके  era  ,  winning  नौ  Silver Slugger awards and  तीन  Gold Glove awards .
He was  चयनित   to  the Major  लीग  All-Star  खेल  twelve  टाइम्स  , and  थी  elected  the  1995  नेशनल  League Most Valuable Player .
Brasília ( ) is the federal  पूंजी   of  Brazil  और   the  seat  of  government of  the  Federal District .
administratively   ,  the  नगर  is  स्तिथ  in the  संघीय  District which is in  the  Central-West  प्रदेश  .
physically  ,  it   is  located  in  the  ब्राज़ीलियाई  Highlands .
It has  a   जनसांख्यिकी  of about  2,562,963  ( 3,716,996 in the metropolitan area  )  as of the  2008  IBGE estimate  ,   बनाना  it the fourth  largest   नगर   in  Brazil .
However  ,   as  a metropolitan area  ,  it  बाँधने   निम्नतर  at sixth  in  population  .
Brasília is the  largest  city  in   the  world  कि  did not  मौजूद  at  the   शुरूआत  of  the   20th  century .
brasília  has  the   पांचवां  largest  जीडीपी   among   लैटिन  American cities and  the   तीसरा  in  ब्राज़ील  .
At around  r   $  62,000  ब्राज़ीलियाई  reais (  बराबर  to  लगभग  $ 30,900 US  डॉलर  or  €23,000  euros )  ,  the  नगर   's   प्रति  capita income is  the  highest among Brazil  's   largest  cities  .
As the  नेशनल  capital , Brasília is the  सीट  of all  तीन  branches of the  संघीय   सरकारी   of  Brazil  .
The city  भी   होस्ट  the  मुख्यालय   of   अनेक   ब्राज़ीलियाई  companies .
Planning policies such  as   the  location  of  residential buildings around  expansive  urban areas  ,   as  well as building  the  city around large avenues and  dividing   it  into sectors  ,  have sparked  a  debate and reflection on  जीवन  in big  शहरों   in   the  20th  सदी   .
the   नगर  's  डिज़ाइन  divides it into numbered  ब्लॉक  as  खूब  as  सेक्टर  for specified activities , such as the  होटल  Sector  ,  the  बैंकिंग  Sector or the Embassy Sector  .
Brasília hosts 124 foreign  embassies   .
the  city  थी  planned and  विकसित  in  1956  with Lúcio  कोस्टा  as  the  principal urban planner , Oscar Niemeyer  as  the principal  वास्तु  and  रॉबर्टो   burle   मार्क्स   as  the  लैंडस्केप  designer .
Brasilia is  in   the  Unesco 's  संसार  Hertitage List  due  to  इसके   वास्तुकला  .
On April 22  ,  1960  ,  it formally became Brazil 's  नेशनल   पूंजी   .
viewed  from above , the main portion  of   the   नगर  resembles  an   वायुयान   or  a butterfly .
The city  is   commonly  referred  to  as  पूंजी   संघीय  , or simply  bsb  .
Residents  of   brasília   हैं   ज्ञात   as  brasilienses or  candangos   (  the  latter  referring  to  those not  born  in  the  city but  जो   migrated   वहीँ  after  it   थी  established )  .
In local usage  ,  the  शब्द  `` Brasília  ''  usually refers only to  the   पहला   प्रशासनिक  Region  (   ra   i   )  within  the  Federal  ज़िला   (   distrito  Federal ) ,  जहाँ   the   सबसे  important government  इमारतें  are located .
brasília  has  a  unique status  in   ब्राज़ील   ,  as it is an administrative  प्रभाग   बल्कि   than   a  legal municipality  जैसे   nearly  all  शहरों  in Brazil .
Nationally , the  पद   is  almost always used synonymously  साथ  the  संघीय  District  ,  which constitutes an indivisible Federative Unit , analogous to a state  .
Several  ``  satellite cities ''  मौजूद  which  हैं  also part of  the  Federal District .
brasília   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport is the  प्रमुख   विमानक्षेत्र  in Brasília , connecting the  पूंजी  to all major Brazilian  शहरों   और  many  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   गंतव्यों   .
it   is  the  तीसरा  most important airport  in  Brazil  ,  in terms of passengers and  वायुयान   आंदोलनों  .
personifications   of  Germany , France , Russia ,  austria-hungary  , and  the  United Kingdom attempting to keep the lid on the simmering  cauldron  of  imperialist  and  राष्ट्रवादी  tensions in  the  Balkans  to   prevent  a  सामान्य  European  युद्ध   .
वे   यहूद  successful in 1912  और   1913   लकिन   किया  not succeed in in  1914  .
the   कल्याणकारी   of   संसार   युद्ध   i   ,  which  began   in   सेंट्रल   यूरोपीय   in  late  जुलाई   1914  and finished in 1918 ,  शामिल   अनेक   कारकों  , such  as  the conflicts and  दुश्मनी   of  the four decades leading up to the  युद्ध   .
सैन्यवाद   ,  alliances , imperialism , and  राष्ट्रवाद  played major roles in  the  conflict  as   खूब   .
The  तात्कालिक  origins  of  the  युद्ध  , however  ,  lay  in   the  decisions taken  by   कूटनीतिज्ञों  and generals during the Crisis of 1914 , casus belli for which was  the  assassination of  archduke   फ्रांज   फर्डिनेंड  (  the   archduke   of   ऑस्ट्रिया   हंगेरियाई  )  और  his  बीवी  Sophie  by  Gavrilo  princip  ,  an   irredentist  Serb  .
the   संकट  came after a long  और  difficult  श्रेणी  of diplomatic clashes between the Great Powers  (  Italy  ,  France , Germany ,  the   अंग्रेजों   साम्राज्य   ,   the   austria-hungarian  Empire  और  Russia )  over  European and  औपनिवेशिक   मुद्दे   in  the decade before 1914 that  था  left tensions  ऊँची  .
in  turn these diplomatic  clashes  can be traced to  परिवर्तन  in  the  balance of  शक्ति   in   यूरोपीय   चूंकि  1867 .
The more immediate cause for  the   युद्ध   थी  tensions  over   territory  in  the  Balkans  .
Austria-Hungary competed  साथ  Serbia  और  Russia  लिये  territory  और  influence  in  the  प्रदेश  and they pulled  the  rest of  the   ग्रेट  Powers into the conflict through  उनके  various alliances and treaties .
Although  the  chain of  कार्यक्रम  unleashed  by   the   हत्या   triggered  the war ,  the  war  's   origins  go  deeper  ,  involving   नेशनल   राजनीती  , cultures  ,   अर्थशास्त्र   ,   और  a complex web  of   alliances   और  counterbalances  कि  had developed between the  विभिन्न   यूरोपीय  powers since  1870  .
Some  of  the  सबसे  important  long   पद   or  structural  कल्याणकारी  are : the  विकास   of  nationalism  आरपार  Europe , unresolved  territorial  disputes ,  an  intricate system of alliances , the perceived  विश्लेषण   of  the  संतुलन  of  शक्ति  in  यूरोपीय  , convoluted and fragmented governance  ,  the  बाहें   दौड़   of   the   पिछला  decades  ,  previous military  नियोजन  ,  इम्पीरियल  and colonial rivalry  लिये   माल  , power and  प्रतिष्ठा  , and economic and military rivalry in industry and trade  –  e.g. , the Pig  युद्ध  between  ऑस्ट्रिया  and Serbia  .
Other causes that came into play  दौरान  the  राजनयिक   संकट   कि   preceded   the   युद्ध  included  misperceptions  of  intent  (  e.g.   ,  the German belief that  the  United  किंगडम   होता   remain   न्यूट्रल  )  और  delays  और  misunderstandings in  राजनयिक   संचार  .
The various categories  of  explanation  लिये   संसार  War I correspond to  अलग  historians  '  overall methods .
Most historians and popular  टीकाकारों   शामिल  causes from more than  एक  category of  स्पष्टीकरण   to  provide  a  rounded  खाता   of  the  कल्याणकारी   of  the war .
The  deepest  distinction among these accounts is between stories that see it as the  अपरिहार्य  and predictable  निष्कर्ष   of   निश्चित  factors ,  और  those  कि  describe  it  as an arbitrary and unfortunate  गलती  .
In  attributing  causes  लिये  the war  ,  historians and  लड  had to  सौदे   साथ   an   unprecedented  flood  of  memoirs  और  official documents , released  as  each  देश   शामिल  tried  to  avoid blame for starting the war  .
Early releases of  सूचना   by   सरकारें  , particularly  those  released  लिये   उपयोग  by the `` Commission  on  the Responsibility  of  the Authors of the  युद्ध  ''  यहूद   दिखाया  to  be  incomplete and biased .
In  जोड   कुछ   दस्तावेज़  , especially  राजनयिक  cables between Russia  और  France ,  यहूद   मिला  to  have  been  doctored  .
Even  in  later  दशकों   however  ,  जब  much more  सूचना   था  been  released  , historians from  the   वही   संस्कृति  have been shown to  आइये   to  differing conclusions  on   the   कल्याणकारी  of  the  war .
Johnson  's  new  चार्ट   of   नेशनल  emblems , published  c.  1868 .
The large  ध्वज  shown in the corners  हैं   the   37-star  flag of  the  United States ( flown 1867-1877  )  , the Royal  मानक   of   the  United  किंगडम  , the Russian Imperial  मानक  , and the French tricolore with  इनसेट   इम्पीरियल  Eagle  .
Various other  ध्वज  flown by ships are shown .
The Flag  of  Cuba is  labelled  ``  क्यूबन  (  so   पुकारा  )  ``   .
The Chinese  ड्रैगन  on the Flag of China  थी   drawn  mistakenly  as  a western  ड्रैगन  .
a  national  ध्वज   is   a   ध्वज   कि  symbolizes a  देश  .
the   ध्वज  is  flown   by   the   सरकारी  , but usually  can   भी   be   flown   by  citizens of  the  country  .
Both public and private buildings such  as   स्कूलों   और   courthouses   may  fly the national  ध्वज  .
In some countries  ,  the national flags  हैं  only flown from non-military buildings on  निश्चित  flag days  .
वहीँ  are  तीन  distinct  प्रकार   of   नेशनल  flag  लिये  use on  जमीन  , and three for use  at   समुद्र  , though  अनेक  countries use identical designs for several ( and  sometimes  all ) of these types  of   ध्वज   .
The  अमरीकी  Civil War  (   acw   )  , also  ज्ञात   as   the   युद्ध   between   the  States or  बस  the Civil War  (   देखिए   नामकरण  ) , was a civil  युद्ध  fought from 1861  to  1865 between  the  United States ( the  ``  Union '' or the `` North  ''  ) and several  दक्षिणी  slave states  कि  declared their secession and formed the Confederate States  of   अमेरिका  ( the ``  confederacy  '' or the  ``   दक्षिण  ''  )   .
The war had its origin  in  the issue of  गुलामी  , especially  the  extension of slavery  into  the  पश्चिमी  territories  .
Foreign powers did not intervene  .
After  चार   सालो  of bloody  कॉम्बैट   कि   बाएँ   over   600,000  soldiers  मुर्दे  and destroyed  much  of the South 's infrastructure ,  the   confederacy  collapsed  ,  slavery  थी   abolished   ,  and the difficult  पुनर्निर्माण   प्रक्रम   of   restoring  national unity  और   guaranteeing  rights to  the   freed  slaves began  .
In the 1860 presidential  चुनाव   ,   republicans  , led  by  Abraham  lincoln  ,  opposed  expanding  गुलामी  into  संयुक्त  States  '  territories .
lincoln  won  ,   लकिन  before  उसके  inauguration on  कूच   4   ,  1861  ,  seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy  .
Outgoing  लोकतांत्रिक   अध्यक्ष   जेम्स   बुकानन   और  the incoming  republicans  rejected  secession  as illegal  .
lincoln  's  inaugural   पता   घोषित  his  प्रशासन  would not initiate  सिविल   युद्ध  .
आठ   बाकी  slave  राज्य  continued to reject calls for secession .
confederate   शक्तियां  seized numerous federal  दुर्गों   भीतर  territory claimed by  the  Confederacy .
a   सलाम   सम्मेलन   विफल  to  ढूँढें   a  compromise , and  दोनो  sides  prepared   लिये  war .
The  confederates  assumed  कि  European countries were  so  dependent on  ``  King  कपास  `` that they would  intervene  ; none did and  none   पहचाना  the new  confederate  States of America  .
hostilities  began on  अप्रैल  12  ,   1861  ,  जब   confederate  forces  fired   upon   फोर्ट  Sumter , a key fort  आयोजित  by Union troops in South Carolina .
lincoln  called for each state to  provide   सैनिकों  to  retake  the  फोर्ट  ;  नतीजतन   ,  four  अधिक  slave  राज्य  joined the Confederacy  ,  bringing their total to  ग्यारह   .
The Union  जल्द  controlled the border states and established a naval blockade that  अबोध  the southern economy .
the  Eastern  थिएटर  was  inconclusive  in 1861–62  .
the   पतझड़  1862 Confederate campaign into  मेरीलैंड   (   a  Union state  )  ended  साथ  Confederate  रिट्रीट   at  the Battle  of   antietam   ,   dissuading   अंग्रेजों   हस्तक्षेप  .
lincoln  issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा   ,   जिससे   बना   समाप्ति  slavery a war goal  .
to  the  वेस्ट   ,  by summer  1862   the  Union  नष्ट   the   confederate   नदी   नेवी  , then much of their  पश्चिमी  armies  ,  and  the  Union  at   vicksburg   विभाजित  the Confederacy  in  two  at   the   मिसिसिपी  River  .
In  1863   ,  Robert E.  ली  's Confederate incursion north ended at  the   बैटल   of  Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses  S.  Grant  कमांड  of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater ,  विलियम  T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and  marched   to   the  sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure  साथ  the  रास्ता   .
the  Union marshaled the  संसाधन   और  manpower  to   आक्रमण  the Confederacy from all  दिशानिर्देश   ,  and could afford to  लड़ो   लड़ाइयों  of  अपघर्षण  through the Overland  अभियान   towards  Richmond  ,   the  Confederate  पूंजी   .
The defending  confederate   फौज  failed  ,   अग्रणी   to   ली  's surrender  to  Grant at  appomattox   अदालत   हाउस  on  अप्रैल  9 , 1865 .
The American  सिविल  War was  एक  of the earliest  सच्चा   औद्योगिक   युद्धों   .
railroads  ,  the  telegraph  ,  steamships , and mass-produced weapons  यहूद   employed  extensively .
The  mobilization  of civilian  कारखानों   ,   खानों   ,   shipyards  , banks ,  परिवहन  and  खाना  supplies all foreshadowed  संसार  War I .
It remains the deadliest  युद्ध  in  अमरीकी  history ,  resulting   in  the deaths  of  an estimated 750,000  सैनिको  and  an  undetermined number of civilian  हताहत   .
इतिहासकार  John  huddleston   estimates  the  मौत   टोल   at  ten percent  of  all Northern  males  20–45 years old  ,  and  30  percent of all  दक्षिणी  white males  aged  18–40 .
Norrie  बीमारी   is   a  genetic disorder that primarily  affects  the eye  और  almost always leads to blindness .
In  जोड  to  the   जन्मजात   ocular  symptoms , some patients  suffer   इससे   a   प्रगतिशील  hearing loss starting mostly in  उनके  2nd  दशक   of  life ,  जबकि  another portion may be  मानसिक  challenged .
मरीजों   साथ   norrie  disease may  develop   cataracts  , leukocoria ( a condition  जहाँ  the pupils appear white when  लाइट  is shone  on  them )  ,  along with other  developmental  issues  in   the   नजर  ,  ऐसे  as  shrinking  of  the   ग्लोब  and  the  wasting away of the  आईरिस  .
around  30–50  %  of them will  भी   have   developmental  delay/ mental retardation ,  psychotic-like  features , incoordination of movements or behavioral  abnormalities   .
सबसे   मरीजों   हैं  born  साथ   सामान्य   सुनना  ; however , the onset of hearing loss is very common in early adolescence .
परिचय   15   %   of  the patients are estimated to  develop   सब  the  सुविधाएँ  of the disease .
The disease  affects  almost  तभी   पुरूष   infants   at  birth  or  soon  बाद  birth , because  the   बीमारी   is  inherited X-linked recessive .
Only  in  very rare  मामले   ,   महिलाओं   have   महरूम   diagnosed  with  norrie   बीमारी  as well  .
The exact  incidence   क्रमांक  is  अनजान  ; only a few hundred cases  have   महरूम   reported   so  far .
it   is   a  very rare  विकार   कि  is not  संबद्ध   साथ  any specific ethnic or  जातिगत   समूह   .
A contract is an agreement having a  lawful  object  डाला   into   voluntarily  by  दो  or more parties , each of whom  intends  to create one  or   अधिक   विधिक   दायित्वों   between   उन्हें  .
the   तत्व   of  a contract  हैं  ``  प्रस्ताव   ''  and ``  स्वीकृति  '' by ``  competent  persons ''  having  legal capacity  जो  exchange ``  विचार  '' to create  ``  mutuality of obligation . ''
प्रमाण  of some or  सब  of  ये   तत्व  may be  किया  in writing ,  हालांकि  contracts may  be  made entirely  orally  or by  conduct  .
the  remedy for breach of  अनुबंध   can  be `` damages '' in  the  form  of  compensation  of  money or specific performance  enforced  through an  आदेश   .
Both  of  these remedies award the  पार्टी   at  loss the `` benefit  of  the bargain ''  or  expectation  क्षतिपूर्ति   ,   जिससे  are  वृहद   than  mere  रिलायंस   क्षतिपूर्ति  ,  as   in  promissory  estoppel  .
the   पार्टियों  may be  प्राकृतिक  persons or juristic  व्यक्तियों   .
A  अनुबंध  is a  legally  enforceable  वादा  or  undertaking  that something will or  होगा   नहीं   occur  .
the  word promise can be  प्रयुक्त  as a  विधिक  synonym  लिये  contract , although care  is   जरूरी   as  a promise may  नहीं  have the  पूरा  standing of  a   अनुबंध  ,  as  when  it   is   an  agreement  बगैर  consideration .
अनुबंध   विधि   varies   greatly  from  एक   क्षेत्राधिकार   to  another , including  मतभेद   in   आम  law  compared   to   सिविल  law  ,   the  impact  of  received  विधि  , particularly  इससे   इंग्लैण्ड   in  common law  देशों   ,   और   of  law codified in regional legislation  .
Regarding  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई   अनुबंध  Law for  उदाहरण   ,   वहीँ  are  40  relevant acts  जिससे   प्रभाव   on  the interpretation of contract at the  राष्ट्रमंडल  (  संघीय  /  नेशनल   )  level  ,  and  an  additional  26   अधिनियमों  at the  स्तर  of  the  state of NSW  .
in  addition there are  6   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   यंत्र  or conventions  जिससे  are applicable  लिये  international dealings , such as  the  United  राष्ट्र   सम्मेलन  on Contracts for the International Sale  of  Goods .
ASP.NET  is  a server-side  वेब  application  फ्रेमवर्क  designed  लिये  Web development  to  produce dynamic  वेब   पृष्ठों   .
It was developed by  microsoft   to  allow programmers to  निर्माण  dynamic web sites , web  अनुप्रयोग  and  वेब  services  .
It was first released in  जनवरी  2002  साथ   संस्करण   1.0   of   the  .NET  फ्रेमवर्क  ,  और   is  the successor  to   microsoft   's   क्रियाशील   सर्वर  Pages ( ASP )  प्रौद्योगिकी  .
ASP.NET is  निर्मित   on   the  Common Language Runtime  (  CLR  )   ,   allowing   प्रोग्रामर्स  to write ASP.NET code using any supported .NET language .
The ASP.NET  साबुन  extension  फ्रेमवर्क  allows  asp.net  components to  प्रक्रम   साबुन   संदेश   .
Lysergic acid  diethylamide  , abbreviated LSD or LSD-25 ,  भी  known  as  lysergide ( INN ) and  colloquially   as   एसिड  , is a semisynthetic psychedelic  ड्रग   of  the  ergoline  family  ,   खूब   ज्ञात   लिये  its psychological effects which can include  altered  thinking  प्रक्रियाओं  ,  बंद   और  open eye  visuals  ,  synesthesia   ,   an   altered  sense  of   समय  and spiritual experiences ,  as   खूब   as   लिये   इसके  key  भूमिका  in  1960s  counterculture  .
it  is  प्रयुक्त  mainly  as  an entheogen  ,   recreational   ड्रग   ,  and as an  एजेंट  in psychedelic therapy .
एलएसडी  is non-addictive , is not known to cause  दिमाग  damage  ,  and has extremely  कम   toxicity  relative  to  dose .
However  ,   प्रतिकूल   मनोरोग  reactions such as anxiety , paranoia ,  और  delusions are  संभावित  .
एलएसडी   थी   पहला  synthesized by  अल्बर्ट  Hofmann in 1938 from  ergotamine  ,  a  chemical derived by Arthur Stoll  इससे  ergot  ,   a  grain fungus  कि   typically   grows   on  rye  .
the  short  रूप   ``   एलएसडी   ''   आता  from its  जल्दी  code  नाम  LSD-25  ,  which  is  an  संक्षिप्त  for  the   जर्मनी  ``  lysergsäure-diethylamid   ''  followed  by   a   sequential  number .
LSD is  संवेदनशील   to  oxygen ,  पराबैंगनी   लाइट   ,  and chlorine , especially  in  solution  ,   हालांकि  its potency may last for years if  it  is stored away from light and moisture at low temperature  .
In  pure  form  it  is  a   colorless  ,  गंधहीन   ,  tasteless solid  .
एलएसडी  is typically delivered orally , usually  on   a  substrate such as  absorbent  blotter paper , a sugar cube  ,  or  जिलेटिन   .
In its liquid  रूप   ,  it can also be administered by  intramuscular   or  intravenous injection .
LSD is  बहुत  potent , with 20–30 μg ( micrograms )  होने   the  threshold dose  .
नई   प्रयोग  with LSD  प्रारंभ  in 2009 for  the   पहला   समय   in  40 years .
introduced  by Sandoz  laboratories  ,  साथ  trade-name Delysid  ,  as  a   ड्रग   साथ   विभिन्न  psychiatric  उपयोग   in  1947  ,  LSD quickly  became   a  therapeutic  एजेंट  that appeared to  दिखाएँ  great promise .
In the 1950s  ,  officials at the U.S. Central  प्रज्ञा  Agency  (  CIA  )  thought  the  drug might be  लागू   to  mind  कंट्रोल  and  रासायनिक   warfare  ;  the  agency  's   mkultra  research program  propagated  the  ड्रग  among young servicemen  और  students .
the   subsequent  recreational use  of   the   ड्रग   by   युवावस्था  culture in the Western world during  the  1960s led to  a  political  firestorm  that  resulted  in its prohibition .
Currently  ,  a number of organizations—including the Beckley  न्यास  , MAPS  ,  Heffter Research Institute and the  अल्बर्ट  Hofmann  foundation—exist  to fund , encourage and coordinate  शोध  into the medicinal  और  spiritual  उपयोग  of LSD and related psychedelics  .
The  संयुक्त   राज्य  Navy 's Sea  ,  Air , Land  टीमों  ,  commonly  known  as   the  Navy  seals   ,  are  the  U.S.  नेवी  's  प्रिंसिपल  special  परिचालन  force and  a   भाग  of  the   नवल   खास  Warfare Command and United States Special  परिचालन   कमांड  .
``   मुहर  ''  is  always capitalized  in  reference  to  members  of  the  नवल  Special  warfare  community  .
The  एक्रोनिम   is  derived from  उनके   क्षमता  to  operate  at sea ,  in  the  एयर  , and  on   जमीन  .
SEALs  हैं  male members of  the  United  राज्य   नेवी  .
An exchange  कार्यक्रम  with  the   coast   गार्ड  , which graduated  तीन   coast  Guardsmen as  seals  , was suspended in  2011   .
the  CIA 's  अत्यधिक  secretive Special Activities Division ( SAD ) and  अधिक   specifically   इसके   elite  Special Operations  समूह   (  SOG  )  recruits  ऑपरेटर  from the  मुहर  Teams .
Joint Navy SEALs and CIA  परिचालन   go   वापस   to   the   famed   macv-sog  during the Vietnam War .
This  सहयोग  still exists  आज   और   is   देखी  in  the  wars  in  Iraq  और  Afghanistan ,  और  in the  ढूंढना  and  हत्या   of   ओसामा   बिन  Laden  in   पाकिस्तानी  .
World population  estimates  from 1800  to  2100 ,  आधारित  on UN  2010  projections  (  red  ,  orange  ,  green )  और  US Census Bureau  ऐतिहासिक  estimates ( black ) .
Actual  अंकित  population figures are  in  blue  .
According  to  the  उच्चतम  estimate  ,   the   संसार  population may  वृद्धि  to 16 billion  by  2100  ;  according to the  न्यूनतम  estimate , it may decline  to   6  billion  .
The  संसार  population  is  the total  क्रमांक   of  living humans  on  Earth  .
As of  आज   ,  it is estimated  to  number billion by the United States  जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau  (   uscb   )  .
The  uscb  estimates that  the   संसार  population exceeded 7 billion on  कूच   12   ,   2012  .
According to  a  separate estimate by the  संयुक्त  Nations  जनसांख्यिकी  Fund  ,  it reached this milestone on October  31  , 2011  .
The world population has experienced continuous growth since  the  end of the  ग्रेट  Famine  और   the  Black Death in  1350  , when it stood at around 370  लाख  .
The  उच्चतम  rates of growth  –  global population  increases  above  1.8  %  प्रति   साल  –  यहूद   देखी  briefly during the  1950s   ,  and  लिये  a longer  काल  during  the   1960s  and 1970s .
the  growth  रेट  peaked  at   2.2  % in  1963  , and  था   अस्वीकृत   to  1.1 %  by  2011 .
कुल  annual births  यहूद  highest  in   the  late  1980s  at  परिचय  138  लाख   ,  and  हैं  now expected  to   remain  essentially  निरंतर   at   उनके   2011   स्तर  of 134 million , while  मौतों  number  56   लाख  per  साल  ,  और  are expected to  बढ़ाएँ  to  80  million per year  by  2040  .
Current projections  दिखाएँ   a   जारी  increase in  जनसांख्यिकी  in  the   निकट   भविष्य   (  but  a   स्थिर  decline in  the   जनसांख्यिकी  growth  रेट   )  , with the  वैश्विक  population  अपेक्षित  to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion  by  2050  .
विभिन्न  longer-term  estimates   भविष्यवाणी   further   विकास   ,  stagnation ,  or  even overall decline in the  वैश्विक  population by 2150 .
Some analysts  have   questioned   the  sustainability of further world population growth ,  citing  the  growing  pressures on the  पर्यावरण   ,   वैश्विक   खाना   आपूर्तियाँ   ,   और  energy resources .
Memphis is  a  city  in  the southwestern corner  of  the U.S. state  of  Tennessee , and the county  सीट  of Shelby  काउंटी  .
The city is  स्तिथ  on the  4th  Chickasaw  bluff  , south  of  the confluence of  the  Wolf and Mississippi rivers .
मेम्फिस  had  a   जनसांख्यिकी  of 672,277 in  2011   बनाना   it   the  largest city in the state of Tennessee ,  the  largest city on the  मिसिसिपी  River  ,   the   तीसरा  largest in  the   southeastern  United States  ,  and  the   20th   largest   in   the   संयुक्त  States .
The greater  मेम्फिस  metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल   ,  including adjacent counties in  मिसिसिपी  and Arkansas , had  a  2010 population of  1,316,100  .
This makes  मेम्फिस   the   दूसरी   largest  metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  in  टेनेसी  ,  surpassed  only by metropolitan  नैशविले  , which has overtaken  मेम्फिस  in  हाल  years  .
मेम्फिस  is  the   youngest   of  Tennessee  's  major  शहरों   .
A resident of  मेम्फिस  is  referred   to  as  a   memphian  , and the Memphis  प्रदेश  is known  ,   विशेषकर   to   मीडिया   आउटलेट  , as  ``   मेम्फिस   &  The Mid-South  ``   .
the  Cattenom Nuclear Power Plant in  फ़्रांस  .
France produces  around   तीन   quarters  of its electricity  by  nuclear power .
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear  शक्ति  Plant  in  Germany  .
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition  घोषित   on  May  30  , 2011  ,   कि  Germany’s  17  nuclear  शक्ति   स्टेशन  will  be  shut  bas   by  2022  ,  in a policy reversal following  जापानी   's  Fukushima Daiichi  नाभिकीय   विपत्ति   .
Currently ,  68   रिएक्टरों   हैं  under  निर्माण  in 15  देशों  .
Nuclear power  स्टेशन   operate   in  thirty  देशों   .
In 2010 ,  पहले  the Fukushima  daiichi  nuclear disaster ,  it   थी   reported   कि  an  औसत  of  परिचय  10  नाभिकीय  reactors  यहूद  expected to  become   operational  per  साल  ,  हालांकि   according   to   the   संसार   नाभिकीय  Association  ,  of  the  17  civilian   रिएक्टरों  planned  to  become  operational   between   2007  and  2009  , only five actually came  on  stream .
As of June  2011  , Germany and  स्विट्ज़रलैंड   हैं  phasing-out nuclear power .
as  of June 2011 , countries such  as  Australia , Austria , Denmark ,  यूनानियों  , Ireland , Italy  ,  Latvia  ,  Liechtenstein ,  ध्वज  , Malaysia  ,  Malta ,  नई  Zealand , Norway and Portugal remain opposed  to   नाभिकीय   शक्ति  .
Skeletal  मांसपेशियां  homo  sapiens
इस  is a table of muscles of the  इंसान  anatomy .
There are  लगभग  642 skeletal muscles within the typical  इंसान  ,  और  almost every  मांसपेशी  constitutes  एक  part of  a   जोड़ी   of  identical bilateral muscles  ,   मिला  on  दोनो  sides , resulting  in   लगभग   320   pairs  of muscles ,  as   प्रस्तुत   in  this article .
nevertheless  ,  the  exact number  is   मुश्किल   to   define  because different sources  समूह   मांसपेशियां  differently ,  e.g  . regarding what  is   पारिभाषित   as  different  भाग  of  a  single  मांसपेशी   or  as  अनेक  muscles .
Examples  दायरा   इससे  640 to 850 .
The  मांसपेशियां   of  the human  देह  can be  categorized  into a number  of  groups which include  मांसपेशियां  relating  to  the head and neck  ,   मांसपेशियां   of  the  धड़  or trunk ,  मांसपेशियां  of  the  upper  limbs  ,  और   मांसपेशियां  of the lower  limbs  .
the   कार्रवाई  refers  to   the   कार्रवाई   of  each muscle from the standard  anatomical   स्थिति  .
In other  स्थितियाँ  ,  अन्य  actions may be performed .
A  reenactment  of a battle at Fort Foster ,  1837  ( at Hillsborough River  राज्य  Park )
the   seminole   युद्धों   ,   भी   ज्ञात  as the Florida Wars , were three conflicts in Florida between  the  Seminole  —  the  सामूहिक   नाम   दिए   to   the   amalgamation  of  विभिन्न  groups of  देशी   अमेरिकी  and  ब्लैक  people who settled in Florida  in  the  जल्दी  18th century —  और  the United States Army  .
The  पहला  Seminole War was  इससे  1814  to  1819 ( although  स्त्रोत   differ  ) ,  the  Second  seminole   युद्ध  from  1835  to  1842  ,  और   the   तीसरा  Seminole War  इससे   1855  to  1858  .
the  first conflict  साथ   the  Seminoles  arose   आउट   of   तनाव  relating  to  General  एंड्रयू  Jackson  's  attack  और  destruction  of  Negro  फोर्ट   in   फ्लोरिडा  in 1816  .
Jackson also attacked  the  Spanish  at  Pensacola .
Ultimately ,  the  Spanish Crown ceded the colony  to  United States rule .
Orono is a  कस्बा  in Penobscot  काउंटी   ,  Maine  ,  United States .
It was first settled in 1774  और  named in honor of Chief Joseph Orono of the  penobscot   स्वदेश   .
it  is home to  the  University  of   maine   .
The population was  10,362  at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी   .
View of  the  pyramid
लक्सर   लास   वेगास   is   a  hotel  और   कसीनो   on  the Las Vegas  स्ट्रिप   in   स्वर्ग   ,  Nevada .
The  30-story  hotel  ,  owned  और   संचालित  by  mgm  Resorts International ,  रै  a casino with over 2,000 slot machines and  87  table  खेल  .
In  the  2008 to 2009  नवीकरण  , it  रै  a new  ,  highly  आधुनिकीकरण  , and  समकालीन  design and contains  a  total of 4,400 rooms ,  सहित  442  suites  ,  अस्तर  the interior walls of a pyramid  स्टाइल  tower and within  जुड़वा  22-story ziggurat towers that  यहूद  built as later  परिवर्धन   .
The  होटल   is  named after  the  city of  लक्सर  ( ancient Thebes  )  in  मिश्र  .
Luxor is the second largest hotel  in  Las  वेगास  ( the  largest  being the MGM Grand  )   और  the eighth largest in  the  world .
as  of  2010   ,  the Luxor has  a  4  कुंजी   दरजा  from  the   ग्रीन   कुंजी  Eco-Rating  कार्यक्रम   ,  which  evaluates  ``  चिरस्थायी  ''  होटल  operations  .
a  pilot  प्रयोग  , also  पुकारा  a  पायलट  study ,  is  a small  स्केल  preliminary study conducted  in  order to evaluate feasibility  ,   समय   ,  cost  ,   प्रतिकूल   कार्यक्रम   ,  and effect size  (   सांख्यिकीय   variability  )  in  an  attempt  to predict an appropriate sample  आकार  and improve upon the  पढ़ाई   डिज़ाइन   prior  to performance  of  a full-scale research  प्रोजेक्ट   .
पायलट   अध्ययन   ,   इसलिए  , may  नहीं  be appropriate for  मामला   अध्ययन  .
The Los Angeles  आग   विभाग  (  lafd  )  is  the agency  कि  provides  आग   सुरक्षा   और  emergency medical services for the  नगर  of  लॉस  Angeles  .
it  may be unofficially  referred   to   as  the Los  एंजिल्स  City  आग  Department to distinguish  it  from  the  Los Angeles County  आग  Department .
the  acre is a unit of area used in the imperial  और   u.S.  customary systems .
An  एकड़   is  about  40   %   of  a hectare  –  slightly  छोटी  than  an  American football field .
The acre is no  longer   commonly   प्रयुक्त   ,   हालांकि   a  few notable exceptions include  the  United  राज्य  , Australia  ,   बर्मा  and  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom  (  as of 2010  ,  the acre is no longer officially  प्रयुक्त  in the United Kingdom , though  is   स्टिल   प्रयुक्त  in real estate descriptions  )  .
It is still used  ,  to some extent  ,  in Canada  .
The international symbol  of  the  एकड़   is   ac   ,  and is  पारिभाषित   as   1/640   of  a square mile  .
The  सबसे  commonly used  एकड़   आज   is  the international  एकड़  .
In the United States both  the  international  एकड़   और   the  slightly  अलग  US survey  एकड़  are  in   उपयोग  .
The most common use of  the  acre  is  to  माप  tracts  of   जमीन  .
एक  international  एकड़  is defined as 4046.8564224  वर्गाकार  metres .
दौरान   the  Middle  आयु  , an acre was  the   राशि   of  land  कि   could   be  plowed in  एक  day with a yoke  of   oxen   .
pawnee   initially   refers  to a  देशी  American people  और  its  language:
Pawnee  लोगों
Pawnee language
Pawnee is  भी  the  नाम   of  several places  in   the   संयुक्त  States:
Pawnee ,  इलिनोइस
pawnee  , Kansas
Pawnee City ,  नेब्रास्का
Pawnee , Oklahoma
pawnee  , Texas
Pawnee National Grassland , Colorado
Pawnee  township   (  disambiguation )
pawnee   काउंटी  ( disambiguation  )
Pawnee may also refer to:
Piper PA-25  pawnee  , agricultural  वायुयान
Hiller VZ-1 Pawnee ,  प्रायोगिक  aircraft
Pawnee  ,   इंडियाना   (  fictional city ) the  fictional  setting of the  एनबीसी  television comedy Parks and Recreation .
Broca 's and Wernicke  's   क्षेत्रों
Language processing  refers   to   the   रास्ता  human  beings   उपयोग  words to  communicate   विचार   और   जज्बात   ,   और  how  ऐसे  communications are  processed   और   समझा  .
Thus it  is   कैसा  the  दिमाग   creates   और  understands language .
Most recent theories consider that this  प्रक्रम  is carried out entirely  by  and inside  the  brain  .
This is  माना   एक   of   the   सबसे  characteristic abilities of the  इंसान  species  -  perhaps the most characteristic .
However  बहुत   छोटी  is known about  it  and there is huge scope for research on it .
Most of the  ज्ञान  acquired to date on  the   विषय  has  आइये  from  मरीजों  who  have  suffered  कुछ  type of  significant   सिर   चोट  ,  whether  external  (  wounds  ,  bullets  )  or  आतंरिक  ( strokes  ,  tumors , degenerative  रोगों   )  .
Studies have shown that  सबसे   of  the  भाषा   प्रसंस्करण   कृत्यों   हैं   carried   आउट  in  the  cerebral  cortex  .
The essential function of  the   cortical  language  क्षेत्रों   is   सांकेतिक   प्रतिनिधित्व   .
Even  हालांकि   भाषा  exists  in  different forms , all of them are based on  सांकेतिक  representation  .
the   bugatti  Veyron EB 16.4 is  a  mid-engined grand touring car  ,   designed  and developed by  the   volkswagen   समूह   और   manufactured  in Molsheim , France  by   bugatti   ऑटोमोबाइल  S.A.S .
the   सुपर   खेल   संस्करण  of  the  Veyron is the fastest  street-legal  production  car   in  the  संसार  , with a  शीर्ष  speed of  .
The  असली   संस्करण   रै   a  top speed  of  .
it   थी  named  car   of  the Decade (  2000–2009   )   by  the BBC  टेलीविज़न   कार्यक्रम  Top Gear .
The standard  veyron  won  शीर्ष  Gears  बेहतरीन  Car Driven  सब   साल   पुरस्कार   in  2005 .
on  6 April  2013  ,  bugatti   नियत   the  record for the  तीव्रतम   roadster  in the world with  the   veyron  Grand Sport  vitesse  , reaching on  औसत  a  शीर्ष   गति  of .
the  Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss  ,  and  the   exterior  was designed by Jozef  kabaň   of   volkswagen   ,   साथ   much  of  the  engineering  कार्य  being conducted under  the   मार्गदर्शन  of  अभियान्त्रिकी  chief Wolfgang Schreiber  .
A  क्रमांक  of  खास  variants  have  been produced .
in   दिसम्बर  2010 , Bugatti began offering  prospective   खरीदार  the  क्षमता   to   मनपसंद  exterior  और  interiors colours  by  using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the  marque   's   आधिकारिक   जालस्थल   .
dvd   is   an   ऑप्टिकल  disc storage format  ,   invented  and developed  by   फिलिप्स  , Sony ,  तोशिबा  , and Panasonic in 1995 .
dvds  offer higher storage capacity  than   कॉम्पैक्ट  discs while having  the   वही   आयाम   .
Pre-recorded DVDs  हैं  mass-produced using  सांचा  machines  कि  physically  स्टैम्प   आंकड़ा  onto the DVD  .
Such discs  हैं  known  as  DVD- ROM  ,   क्युकी  data can only be  पढ़ा   और  not  लिखा  nor erased  .
Blank recordable  dvd  discs (  dvd-r  and DVD+R  )   can  be recorded once using a  dvd   रिकॉर्डर   और   तब  function  as  a  dvd-rom   .   rewritable  DVDs ( DVD-RW  ,   dvd+rw  , and DVD-RAM  )  can be recorded and erased multiple  टाइम्स   .
dvds  are  प्रयुक्त  in DVD-Video consumer  डिजिटल   वीडियो   स्वरूप   और   in  DVD-Audio  उपभोक्ता   डिजिटल   ऑडियो   स्वरूप  ,  as  well  as  for authoring AVCHD  discs  .
DVDs  containing   अन्य  types of  सूचना  may  be  referred  to  as  dvd  data  discs   .
कया   chilli   wants   is   an  American reality  श्रेणी  on VH1 starring Chilli , one-third of  the   ग्रैमी  Award  -winning  R & B  तिकड़ी   tlc   .
The  दिखाएँ  chronicles  chilli  's quest to  ढूँढें  love with the help of  tionna  T. Smalls , an  लेखक  and  संबंध   कोच   .
The series premiered  on  April 11 , 2010 ,  और  has since been  नवीनीकृत  for a second  ऋतु  .
The second season premiered on  संडे  ,  जनवरी   2   ,  2011 .
Peter Gene  hernandez  (  born   अक्तूबर  8 , 1985 )  ,   ज्ञात  by his stage name  ब्रूनो  Mars , is  an  American singer-songwriter  और  record  निर्माता  .
Raised  in  Honolulu , Hawaii , by a family of musicians ,  मंगल  began  बनाना  music at a young age  और  performed in various musical  venues  in his hometown throughout his  बाल्यकाल  .
He graduated  इससे  high school and then moved  to  Los Angeles , California  ,   to   pursue   a  musical career .
मंगल  produced songs for  अन्य   कलाकारों  , joining production  टोली  The  smeezingtons   .
मंगल   था   an   unsuccessful  stint with Motown Records ,  लकिन   तब  signed  साथ  Atlantic in 2009 .
he  became recognized  as  a solo artist  बाद   lending   उसके   vocals  and  co-writing  the hooks for  the  songs  ``   nothin   '  on You ``  by   b.o.b  , and `` Billionaire  ``  by Travie McCoy .
he  also  co-wrote  the  हिट्स  ``  सही   गोलाकार  ``  by  Flo  rida  featuring Ke  $   ha  , and `` Wavin  '  Flag `` by K'naan  .
In October 2010 , he  released  his  डेब्यू  album ,  doo-wops  & Hooligans .
Anchored by the  विश्वव्यापी  number-one singles ``  बस  the Way You  हैं  ``  और  `` Grenade `` ,  the  album peaked  at   क्रमांक  three on the Billboard  200  .
मंगल   थी  nominated  लिये   सात   grammys  at  the   53rd  Grammy  पुरस्कार   ,  winning  बेहतरीन  Male Pop  गायन   प्रदर्शन   लिये   ``  Just the Way You Are ''  .
His  दूसरी   स्टुडियो   एल्बम   ,  Unorthodox Jukebox ,  थी   released  on December  11  ,  2012  .
मंगल  '  म्यूज़िक   is   विख्यात  for  displaying   a  wide  किस्में   of   शैलियाँ   और   प्रभाव   ,   और  contains  तत्व  of many musical genres  .
he   रै  worked with an  assortment  of artists from various  जाति   .
as  a child  ,   he   थी  highly influenced by  कलाकारों  such as  छोटी   रिचर्ड   ,  Elvis Presley  और  Michael  जैक्सन  and would  प्रायः  impersonate these artists  इससे   a  young  आयु  .
Mars  भी  incorporates reggae - and  motown   -inspired  sounds into  उसके   कार्य  .
विश्वव्यापी   ,   मंगल   became  the  best-selling   डिजिटल  artist  in  2011  .
he  had  तीन   singles   in  the  शीर्ष  ten ,  सहित   पहला  place  साथ  `` Just  the  Way You  हैं   ''  ,  जिससे   बेची  12.5  लाख  copies  .
मंगल  won Best  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Male Solo  कलाकार   at  the 2012 BRIT Awards .
Bruno  मंगल   रै  sold 6  लाख  albums  और  40 million singles  विश्वव्यापी  as a singer .
althought   as  a song-writer ,  निर्माता   और   सिंगर  his total  सिंगल   डाउनलोड  sales surpass  100   लाख   विश्वव्यापी  .
बस्ट   of  Zeus , Otricoli ( Sala  रोटोंडा   ,  Museo Pio-Clementino , Vatican ) .
Greek  mythology  is the body  of  myths and teachings that belong to the  प्राचीन  Greeks ,  concerning  their gods and heroes  ,   the  nature of  the  world , and the origins  और   significance  of  उनके  own  cult  and ritual practices .
It was a part of the religion  in  ancient Greece and  is  part of religion  in  modern  यूनानियों   और   around   the   संसार   ,   ज्ञात  as Hellenismos .
Modern  विद्वानों  refer to  और  study the myths  in   an  attempt to  throw  light on the religious and political  संस्थानों  of  प्राचीन  Greece and  इसके   सभ्यता   ,  and to gain understanding of the  प्रकृति  of  myth-making  itself  .
Greek mythology is  explicitly   समाविष्ट  in  a  large collection of narratives , and implicitly in Greek  representational  arts  ,   ऐसे   as  vase-paintings and votive  उपहार   .
यूनानी  myth  कोशिशें   to   बताइये  the origins of  the   संसार   ,  and  विवरण  the  जीवनदान  and adventures of  a  wide  किस्में  of gods , goddesses  ,  heroes  ,  heroines ,  और  mythological creatures  .
ये  accounts initially were disseminated  in  an oral-poetic tradition ; today  the  Greek  मिथकों  are  ज्ञात   primarily  from Greek literature .
the  oldest  ज्ञात  Greek literary  स्त्रोत  , Homer 's  एपिक  poems  इलियड  and Odyssey , focus on  कार्यक्रम   surrounding  the Trojan  युद्ध  .
Two poems by Homer 's near contemporary Hesiod , the Theogony and the Works and  दिनों  , contain  खाते   of   the   उत्पत्ति   of  the  संसार  , the  उत्तराधिकार  of divine rulers ,  the  succession of human  आयु  , the origin  of  human  woes   ,   और  the  उत्पत्ति  of  sacrificial  practices .
मिथकों   हैं   भी   preserved  in  the  Homeric  hymns  ,  in   fragments   of   एपिक  poems of  the  Epic Cycle  ,  in  lyric  poems ,  in   the   works  of the  tragedians  of  the   पांचवां  century  bc   ,   in   कृतियाँ  of scholars and poets  of  the Hellenistic Age , and  in  texts from  the  time  of   the  Roman  साम्राज्य  by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias .
पुरातत्व  findings  provide  a principal  सोर्स   of   विवरण  about  यूनानी  mythology ,  साथ  gods  और  heroes featured prominently in the decoration of many  artifacts  .
Geometric  डिजाइन   on  pottery  of   the   आठवीं  century BC depict scenes from the Trojan cycle as well as  the  adventures of Heracles  .
in  the succeeding  archaic  , Classical , and  hellenistic   अवधि   ,  Homeric and  विभिन्न   अन्य   पौराणिक   दृश्यों  appear , supplementing  the  existing literary evidence  .
Greek  mythology   रै   था  an  extensive   influence   on  the culture  ,   कला   ,   और  literature of Western  सभ्यता  and  remains   भाग  of  पश्चिमी  heritage  और   भाषा  .
कवियों  and artists from ancient times to  the  present  have  derived inspiration from Greek mythology  और  have  खोजा   समकालीन   significance  and relevance in  the   विषयवस्तु  .
Mouth & MacNeal in 1971
Mouth &  macneal  was a  पॉप  duo from  the  Netherlands .
They are best known for  उनके  million selling  रिकॉर्डिंग  of  ``   कैसा  Do You  do  `` .
The  boise   राज्य  Broncos football program  represents   boise  State  विश्वविद्यालयों  in college  फ़ुटबॉल  and compete in the  फ़ुटबॉल   कटोरी  Subdivision  (   fbs  )  of  Division  i  as a member of the Mountain  वेस्ट  Conference .
वे  are  फिलहाल  led by head coach Chris Petersen and  खेल  their  घर   खेल   at   bronco   स्टेडियम   .
The franc  (  sign :  fr  . or SFr  .  ; German :  franken  , French  और  Romansh : franc  ,  Italian  :  franco  ;   कोड  :  chf  ) is the  करेंसी  and legal  टेंडर  of  स्विट्ज़रलैंड   और  Liechtenstein ; it  is  also  विधिक   टेंडर  in the  इतालवी   exclave   campione  d'Italia .
Although not  formally  legal tender in the  जर्मनी  exclave Büsingen (  the  sole  विधिक   करेंसी   is   the  euro  )  , it is  in  wide  रोज़  use  वहीँ   .
the  Swiss  नेशनल  Bank  मुद्दे   banknotes   और  the  संघीय   मिंट  Swissmint issues  सिक्के   .
the  Swiss franc is the  तभी   संस्करण  of  the   फ़्रैंक  still issued in  यूरोपीय  .
the  smaller  denomination   ,  a hundredth of a franc , is a Rappen  (  Rp . ) in German , centime ( c.  )  in French  ,  centesimo ( ct. )  in  Italian  ,  and  रैप  ( rp .  )   in   romansh   .
The ISO code  of  the  करेंसी  used  by   बैंको  and financial institutions is CHF  ,  although `` Fr .  ''   is   प्रयुक्त  by most  व्यवसायों  and advertisers ; some  उपयोग  SFr . ;  the   latinate  `` CH ''  स्टैंड   लिये   confoederatio  Helvetica  .
Given  the  different languages  प्रयुक्त   in   स्विट्ज़रलैंड  , Latin is used for  language-neutral  inscriptions  on  the coins  .
Sir Charles Spencer  ``  Charlie ''  चैपलिन   ,  (  16   अप्रैल   188925   दिसम्बर   1977  )  थी  a British comic actor and filmmaker who rose to fame  in  the silent  era  .
चैपलिन  became a worldwide icon through  उसके  screen persona  ``  the Tramp `` and  is  considered  एक   of  the most important figures  of  the film industry .
उसके  career spanned  अधिक  than 75 years ,  इससे  a child in the Victorian era to close to his  मौत  at  the   आयु  of 88  ,  and  encompassed  both  adulation   और  controversy .
Raised in London ,  चैपलिन   's  childhood  थी  defined by poverty and  hardship  .
he  was sent  to  a workhouse twice before the  आयु   of   नौ   ;  his father was absent , and his mother  थी   वचनबद्ध  to a mental asylum  .
Chaplin began performing from  a  young  आयु  ,  touring  music  हॉल  and later working as  a  stage  कर्ता  and  हास्य  .
At 19  he  was signed to  the   prestigious  Fred Karno  कम्पनी   ,   जिससे  took  उसे   to   अमेरिका   .
Chaplin was scouted  by   the   फिल्मी  industry  ,  and  बना  his first appearances in 1914 with Keystone  studios  .
He soon developed the Tramp persona  और  formed a large fan base  .
Chaplin directed his  films   इससे  an early  स्टेज  , and continued  to  hone  उसके   शिल्प  as  he   स्थानांतरित   to   the  Essanay , Mutual ,  और  First National corporations .
By 1918  ,  he  थी   एक  of the  सबसे  famous  मेन  in  the   संसार   .
In 1919 ,  चैपलिन   co-founded   the   वितरण  company United Artists  ,   giving   उसे   पूरा   कंट्रोल   over   उसके  films .
His first  feature-length  picture was The  बच्चा  (  1921  ) ,  followed   by   a  Woman of  पेरिस  (  1923  ) , The  सुनहरा  Rush ( 1925 )  ,   और  The Circus ( 1928  )   .
he   refused   to   मूव  to sound films  in  the  1930s   ,   बजाय  producing City  लाइट्स  ( 1931 ) and  आधुनिक   टाइम्स  (  1936  ) without  संवाद  .
Chaplin became  increasingly   राजनैतिक   और  his next film ,  the  Great  तानाशाह   (  1940 ) , satirised  एडोल्फ  Hitler .
The 1940s was a decade  चिह्नित  with controversy for  चैपलिन  , and his  लोकप्रियता  declined rapidly  .
he  was accused of communist sympathies ,  जबकि   उसके   भागीदारी   in  a paternity suit  और  marriages  to  much  younger  women  यहूद   माना  scandalous .
An FBI investigation was  खोली   on   चैपलिन  , and he was eventually  मजबूर   to  leave  the  United  राज्य  and  settle  in  स्विट्ज़रलैंड  .
he  abandoned the Tramp  लिये   उसके  later  films   ,  which include Monsieur Verdoux  (  1947  )  ,  limelight   (   1952   )  , A  किंग  in New York  (  1957 ) , and A Countess From Hong  काँग   (  1967 ) .
चैपलिन  wrote , directed  ,  produced  ,   संपादित  , scored  ,   और   स्ट्रक्चर   in  most of  उसके  films .
He was a perfectionist ,  और   उसके  financial independence  meant   he   प्रायः   खर्च   सालो  on the development  और  production  of  a picture  .
उसके   films  are characterised  by   slapstick  combined with  pathos   ,   और   प्रायः  feature  the   ट्रैम्प   struggling  against  adversity   .
अनेक   contain   सोशल  and  राजनैतिक   विषयवस्तु  , as well  as   autobiographical  elements  .
In  1972  , as part  of  a renewed appreciation for  उसके  work ,  चैपलिन  received  an   मानद   अकादमी  Award for  ``  the  incalculable  effect he has  था  in  बनाना  motion pictures the art form  of  this  सदी  ''  .
He continues  to  be held  in   ऊँची   लिहाज़  , with The  सुनहरा   फटाफट   ,  City Lights , Modern Times , and  the   ग्रेट  Dictator  प्रायः  ranked among  the   महानतम   films  of all  समय   .
Planned Parenthood Federation of  अमेरिका  (  ppfa   )   ,   commonly   shortened  to Planned Parenthood  ,   is  the  u.S.   संबद्ध   of   the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Planned  parenthood   संघ  (  ippf   )  and one of  इसके  larger members  .
PPFA is  a  non-profit  संगठन  providing  reproductive  health  और   मातृ  and child  स्वास्थ्य   सेवाएं  .
The Planned Parenthood Action Fund , Inc.  (  PPAF )  is  a related organization which lobbies  लिये  pro-choice legislation , comprehensive sex education  ,  and access to  सस्ती   स्वास्थ्य  care in the United  राज्य  .
नियोजित   parenthood  is the largest  u.S.   प्रदाता   of  reproductive health  सेवाएं  , including  कर्कट  screening  ,  HIV  स्क्रीनिंग   और   counseling  ,  निरोधक  , and  गर्भपात  .
Contraception accounts  लिये  35  %  of PPFA 's total  सेवाएं  and abortions  खाता   लिये  3 % ;  ppfa  conducts roughly 300,000 abortions each year , among 3 million  लोगों  served .
The organization  रै  its roots in  ब्रुकलीन  , New York ,  जहाँ  Margaret Sanger  खोली  the  देश  's first birth-control clinic .
Sanger founded the American Birth  कंट्रोल  League in  1921   ,  which in 1942 became  भाग   of  the Planned  parenthood  Federation  of   अमेरिका   .
चूंकि  then , Planned  parenthood  has  grown   to  have over 820  क्लिनिक  locations  in   the  U.S.  ,   साथ   a  total  बजट  of US  $  1 billion .
PPFA  provides   an  array of services to  over   तीन   लाख  people in the United  राज्य  ,  और   supports  services  लिये  over one million clients outside the United  राज्य  .
पुरुषों   rea  is Latin  लिये  `` guilty mind ''  .
In  दण्ड   विधि  , it  is  viewed as  एक  of  the  necessary elements of some crimes .
The standard common law test of  दण्ड   देयता  is usually  expressed  in  the   लैटिन   phrase  ,  actus   गैर   facit   reum   nisi  mens sit rea  ,  which  अर्थात्   ``  the act is not culpable  जबतक  the  दिमाग  is guilty ''  .
Thus  ,  in jurisdictions  साथ   due  process  ,  there  जरूर  be an actus reus , or ``  अपराधी  act  ,  '' accompanied by some level  of  mens  rea   to   constitute  the crime with  जिससे   the  defendant is charged ( see the  तकनीकी  requirement  of   concurrence  )  .
As a general rule  ,   दण्ड  liability  करता  not attach to a person who acted with the absence of mental fault .
The  एक्सेप्शन  is  सख्त  liability  अपराधों   .
In civil law ,  it  is usually not necessary to prove  a  subjective mental  तत्व   to  establish liability  लिये   उल्लंघन  of  अनुबंध   or   अपकृत्य  , for example .
However ,  if  a tort  is  intentionally  वचनबद्ध   or  a contract is intentionally breached  ,   ऐसे   intent  may  बढ़ाएँ   the  scope  of   देयता   as  well as  the   माप  of damages payable to the plaintiff .
Therefore  ,  mens rea refers  to   the   दिमागी  element  of   the  offence that accompanies the actus  reus  .
In  कुछ  jurisdictions , the terms mens  rea  and  actus  reus  have   महरूम  replaced by alternative terminology  .
In Australia , for example ,  the  elements of the  संघीय  offences are  अभी  designated  as   ``   दोष  elements  ''   or  `` mental elements  ''  (  पुरुषों  rea ) and  ``  physical  तत्व   ''   or  ``  बाह्य   तत्व  '' ( actus reus ) .
This  शब्दावली   थी   अपनाया   to  replace  the   अस्पष्टता  of the Latin terms with  सरल   और   सटीक   phrasing  .
ulysses  S. Grant (  born   hiram  Ulysses Grant  ;  April 27  ,  1822  –   जुलाई   23   ,  1885 )  थी   the   18th  President  of   the   संयुक्त  States  (   1869–1877  )  following  his highly successful role  as  a  युद्ध  general  in  the  दूसरी  half of the Civil War .
अंतर्गत  Grant , the Union  फौज  defeated  the   confederate   सैन्य  ; having  effectively  ended the war and secession with the  आत्मसमर्पण  of Robert E. Lee 's  फौज  at Appomattox .
as  president he led  the  Radical Republicans  in  their effort to eliminate all vestiges of Confederate nationalism and  गुलामी  .
Upset  over  uncontrolled  हिंसा  in the South and  having  desired  to   protect  African  अमरीकी  citizenship  ,  President Grant effectively  नष्ट   the   ku  Klux Klan in 1871  .
Grant  थी  the  पहला  President  to  establish Civil Service reform having  निर्मित   a   two-year   federally  funded  सिविल  Service Commission in 1871 .
In terms of foreign  नीति  , Grant revealed  an   ``  unexpected capacity  लिये  deliberation and consultation ''  कि   प्रचारित  the national  ब्याज   .
उसके  reputation  थी  marred by  उसके   दोहराया  defense  of  corrupt  appointees  , and by America 's  पहला  industrial  आयु   आर्थिक  depression ( called the  ``   दहशत   of  1873  ``  ) that dominated  उसके  second term .
Although his Republican Party split in 1872 with  reformers  denouncing  उसे   ,   ग्रान्ट  was easily reelected  .
by  1875  the   रूढ़िवादी   श्वेत  Southern opposition  regained  control of  प्रत्येक   राज्य  in the South  और  as he  बाएँ  the  श्वेत   हाउस  in  कूच  1877 his  नीतियों   यहूद   होने   undone   .
A career  सिपाही  ,  he  graduated from the United States  सैन्य  Academy at West Point and served in the Mexican–American War  .
जब  the  सिविल  War  began   in  1861 ,  ग्रान्ट  trained Union volunteer regiments in Illinois  .
In 1862  ,  as a  सामान्य  he  लड़ा  a series of battles  और  was promoted to  प्रमुख  general  बाद  forcing  the   आत्मसमर्पण   of  a  विशाल  Confederate  फौज   और  gaining  कंट्रोल  of Kentucky and  सबसे   of   टेनेसी   .
He then led  संघ  forces to victory after initial setbacks  in  the Battle of Shiloh ,  कमाई  a reputation  as   an  aggressive  कमांडर  .
In July 1863  ,   बाद   a  long , complex campaign , Grant defeated  पाँच   uncoordinated   confederate   सेना  (  capturing   एक  of them  )  and  जब्त  Vicksburg .
इस   प्रसिद्ध   विजय   दिया  the Union full control  of  the  मिसिसिपी  River ,  विभाजित  off  the   पश्चिमी   confederacy  ,  और  opened the  रास्ता  for more Union triumphs  .
After another win at the Battle of  चट्टानूगा  in  लेट  1863  ,  President Abraham Lincoln  बना   उसे  lieutenant  सामान्य  and commander of  सब   of  the Union  सेना   .
As commanding  सामान्य   of   the   फौज   ,  Grant confronted Robert E.  ली   in  a series of  बहुत  bloody battles in 1864 known  as  the Overland Campaign that  ended   साथ  the bottling up of Lee at  पीटर्सबर्ग  , outside the Confederate capital of Richmond .
During the siege , Grant coordinated  a   श्रेणी  of  विनाशकारी  campaigns  शुभारम्भ   by   विलियम   tecumseh  Sherman  ,   फिलिप   sheridan   ,  and George Thomas  .
Finally  तोड़कर  through Lee  's   trenches  , the  संघ  Army captured  रिचमंड   in  April  1865  .
ली  surrendered  उसके  depleted forces to  ग्रान्ट  at  appomattox  as  the  Confederacy collapsed  .
हालांकि   pro-confederate  historians attacked  ग्रान्ट  as  a   निष्ठुर   कसाई  who won  by   brute  force  ,   सबसे  historians have hailed  उसके   सैन्य  genius .
ग्रान्ट   's  two consecutive terms  as   अध्यक्ष   stabilized   the  nation  बाद   the  American  सिविल  War  और   दौरान  the  turbulent   पुनर्निर्माण  period that followed .
As  अध्यक्ष  , he enforced Reconstruction by  enforcing   सिविल   अधिकारों   कानून  and  लड़   ku   klux  Klan violence .
ग्रान्ट   जीती  passage of  the   पंद्रहवीं  Amendment  ;  giving constitutional protection for African-American  मतदान   अधिकारों  .
he  used the army to build  the   रिपब्लिकन   पार्टी   in  the South  ,   आधारित  on  ब्लैक  voters  ,  Northern  newcomers  ( ``  carpetbaggers  `` )  और   देशी  white  समर्थक   (   ``   scalawags  .  ''   )
As  a  result ,  अफ़्रीकी  Americans were represented in the U.S. Congress  लिये   the  first time in American history in 1870 .
Reformers praised Grant  's   भारतीय  peace policy by having  टूटा  the deadlock on  भारतीय   appropriations  in  कॉंग्रेस  ,  the   सृष्टि  of  the  Board of  भारतीय   commissioners   to  make  सुधार  recommendations , and  उसके   enlistment   of  Quaker Protestants who controlled mid western  भारतीय   एजेंसियों   ,   कि  effectively  curbed  Congressional patronage  .
ग्रान्ट  remained determined in keeping  इंडियंस   इससे  being exterminated from  श्वेत   settler  encroachment  or   by  the U.S. military .
Grant  's  reputation as president by  1875   थी  at  an  all-time  ऊँची   लिये  his previous veto of  the  Inflation Bill , the  ड्योढ़ी  of the  resumption   of  Specie Act  ,  and Secretary Bristow 's  कामयाब   छापे   कि  shut  bas  the  whiskey   रिंग   .
Grant  's  foreign policy  ,  led by  सचिव   of  State  हैमिल्टन  Fish  ,  implemented International Arbitration , settled the  अलबामा   दावा  with Britain and  avoided   युद्ध   साथ   स्पेन  over the  virginius  Affair .
a  jukebox  is  a partially automated music-playing  यंत्र  , usually a coin-operated  यंत्र  ,  कि  will  खेल   a   संरक्षक   's  selection from self-contained media .
The classic jukebox has  बटन   साथ   अक्षर  and  संख्याएँ  on  उन्हें  that  ,  when entered  in  combination , are used  to   खेल  a specific selection .
A  ड्रग  test is a technical analysis  of   a  biological specimen  –  for example  मूत्र  ,  बाल  , blood  ,  sweat , or oral  द्रव   /  saliva –  to  determine the  उपस्थिति   or  absence  of  specified parent drugs or their  metabolites  .
Major uses of drug testing are to detect  the   उपस्थिति  of performance  बढ़ाना   steroids   in  sport or  लिये   दवाएँ   निषिद्ध  by laws , such  as  cannabis  ,  cocaine  और   हेरोइन  .
A `` 10-panel urine screen ''  consists  of  the  following:
Amphetamines  (  including  methamphetamine  )
Barbiturates
benzodiazepines
cannabinoids  ( THC  )
Cocaine
Methadone
Methaqualone
Opiates (  codeine   ,   मॉरफीन   ,   हेरोइन  ,  oxycodone   ,  Hydrocodone , etc  .   )
Phencyclidine ( PCP )
propoxyphene
शनि  V rocket , used  लिये  the  अमरीकी   मानवयुक्त   चंद्र  landing  मिशन
Space exploration  is   the  discovery  और  exploration of outer space  by   अर्थात्  of space  प्रौद्योगिकी  .
Physical  खोजी  of space is  conducted   दोनो   by   इंसान   spaceflights   और  by robotic spacecraft  .
While  the  observation of objects  in  space , known as astronomy  ,   predates  reliable recorded  इतिहास  ,  it  was  the   विकास   of   विशाल   और   अपेक्षाकृत  efficient  rockets   दौरान   the   जल्दी  20th century that  अनुमत   शारीरिक  space exploration  to  become a reality .
Common rationales  लिये  exploring  स्पेस  include  advancing  scientific research  ,  uniting different  राष्ट्र  , ensuring  the   भविष्य  survival of humanity  और  developing  सैन्य  and  रणनीतिक   लाभ  against other  देशों  .
विभिन्न   आलोचनाओं  of space  खोजी  are sometimes made .
स्पेस  exploration  रै  often been used  as  a proxy competition for  geopolitical  rivalries such  as   the  Cold  युद्ध  .
The  जल्दी  era  of  space exploration  थी   चलित  by  a  ``  स्पेस  Race  ``  between  the   सोवियत  Union and the United  राज्य   ,   the  launch of the first man-made object to  कक्षा   the  Earth  ,  the  ussr   's  Sputnik 1  ,   on   4   अक्तूबर  1957  ,   और  the first Moon landing by the  अमरीकी  Apollo  11   शिल्प  on  20  July  1969  are  प्रायः  taken as the boundaries  लिये  this initial period .
the  Soviet space program  हासिल  many  of  the first milestones  ,  including  the   पहला   जीना   होने   in  orbit in 1957 ,  the  first human spaceflight ( Yuri Gagarin aboard Vostok 1  )   in  1961 ,  the  first  spacewalk  ( by Aleksei Leonov  )   on   18  March  1965   ,  the first automatic landing on  another  celestial body in 1966 ,  और  the  लॉन्च  of the first space station (  salyut   1  ) in 1971  .
After the first  20   सालो   of  exploration  ,   फ़ोकस   shifted  from  one-off  flights  to  renewable  हार्डवेयर   ,  such as the Space  शटल   कार्यक्रम   ,  and from  प्रतियोगिता  to cooperation  as  with the International Space Station  (  ISS ) .
With the  substantial  completion of  the  ISS following STS-133 in March  2011   ,   योजनाएँ  for space  खोजी   by   the  USA remain in flux .
नक्षत्र   ,   a  Bush Administration program  लिये  a return to the  चंद्रमा  by 2020 was judged inadequately funded and unrealistic by an expert review panel  रिपोर्टिंग  in 2009 .
The Obama  प्रशासन  proposed  a  revision of  नक्षत्र  in  2010  to  फ़ोकस   on  the  विकास  of  the   काबिलियत  for  crewed  missions beyond low  धरती   कक्षा  (  leo  ) , envisioning  extending   the   आपरेशन   of  the ISS beyond  2020   ,   transferring   the  development of  लॉन्च  vehicles for human crews from NASA  to   the  private sector  ,   और  developing technology to enable missions  to  beyond LEO  ,  such as  earth/moon   l1   ,  the  चंद्रमा   ,  Earth/Sun  l2  , near-earth asteroids , and Phobos or Mars orbit  .
As  of   कूच  2011 , the  us   सीनेट   और   हाउस  of  प्रतिनिधि  are  स्टिल  working  towards   a  compromise NASA  funding  bill ,  जिससे  will  संभवतः  terminate  नक्षत्र  and fund development  of  a heavy  लिफ्ट   लॉन्च  vehicle  (  HLLV ) .
in  the 2000s  ,   the  People  's   गणतंत्र  of  चीन  initiated a  कामयाब  manned spaceflight  कार्यक्रम   ,   जबकि   the   यूरोपीय  Union , Japan , and  इण्डिया   have  also  नियोजित  future  मानवयुक्त   स्पेस  missions  .
China  ,  Russia  ,   जापानी   ,  and India  have   advocated   मानवयुक्त  missions to  the  Moon during  the  21st  सदी   ,  while  the  European  संघ   रै   advocated   मानवयुक्त   मिशन   to   दोनो   the   चंद्रमा  and Mars during  the  21st century .
From the 1990s onwards  ,  private interests began  promoting  space  पर्यटन   और   तब  private space exploration  of   the  Moon ( see Google  चंद्र  X  पुरस्कार  )  .
John Calvin Coolidge ,  jr.   (  July 4 , 1872January 5  ,  1933  )   थी   the  30th President  of  the United States  (  1923–1929  )  .
A  रिपब्लिकन   वकील  from  वर्मांट  , Coolidge worked  उसके   रास्ता  up  the  ladder  of  Massachusetts  राज्य  politics ,  आखिरकार  becoming  राज्यपाल   of   कि  state .
उसके   conduct   दौरान  the  बोस्टन  Police  स्ट्राइक  of  1919   thrust  him into  the  national spotlight  और   दिया   उसे  a reputation  as   a   man  of  निर्णायक  action  .
Soon after ,  he   थी  elected as  the  29th Vice President in 1920 and succeeded to  the   प्रेसिडेंसी  upon the sudden death  of  Warren  G.   हार्डिंग   in   1923   .
Elected  in   उसके  own  सही   in  1924 ,  he  gained a reputation as  a   small-government   रूढ़िवादी   ,   और   भी  as a man  जो  said very little  .
Coolidge  लौटी   पब्लिक   विश्वास  in the White House  बाद   the  scandals of  उसके  predecessor 's  प्रशासन  , and left  दफ्तर   साथ  considerable popularity .
as  a Coolidge biographer put it  ,  ``  he  embodied the spirit and hopes  of   the   मध्य  class , could  interpret   उनके  longings and express their opinions .
कि   he  did  represent  the genius of the average  is  the most  convincing   प्रमाण   of   उसके   शक्ति  . ''
Some later  criticized   कूलिज   as   भाग  of  a   सामान्य   आलोचना   of  laissez-faire government  .
उसके  reputation  underwent  a renaissance  दौरान   the   रोनाल्ड   reagan  Administration  ,   लकिन   the   परम   मूल्यांकन   of  his  प्रेसिडेंसी  is still divided between  those  who approve of his reduction of the  आकार   of   सरकारी  programs and  those  who believe  the  federal government should be  अधिक  involved in  regulating  and  controlling   the   अर्थव्यवस्था  .
Espresso is  a   concentrated  beverage  brewed  by forcing a small  राशि  of nearly  खौलते   जल  under  दबाव  through  finely   मैदान   कॉफी   सेम  .
Espresso often has a thicker consistency than coffee  brewed  by other  विधि   ,   a   उच्चतर  concentration of  निलंबित  and dissolved solids , and crema (  अर्थ  cream , but being  a   सन्दर्भ   to   the   झाग  with  a  creamy texture that forms as  a  result of  the   दबाव  ) .
as   a   परिणाम  of the  pressurized   brewing  process the flavors and chemicals  in  a typical cup of  एस्प्रेसो  are very  concentrated   .
Espresso  is   the  base for  अन्य  drinks  ,  such  as  a latte ,  कापुचीनो  , macchiato  ,  mocha  ,  or americano .
Espresso has more  कैफीन   प्रति  unit volume than  सबसे   पेय   ,   लकिन   the   usual  serving  आकार   is  smaller—a  ठेठ  60  ml   (   2  US fluid  ounce  ) of espresso  रै   80  to 150 mg  of   कैफीन  , little less than the  95  to  200   mg  of a standard  240   ml  ( 8  us   द्रव   औंस  )  कप   of  drip-brewed coffee  .
ब्रायन  Keith Kelly ( born  अक्तूबर   25  ,  1961  ) is an  अमरीकी  football  कोच   और  former player .
He  is  currently  the  head football  कोच  for the  notre  Dame Fighting  आयरिश  , a  स्थिति   he   रै  held since  दिसम्बर  2009  .
Kelly was  previously  head  कोच  at Grand Valley State University ( 1991–2003  )  , Central  मिशिगन   विश्वविद्यालयों   (   2004–2006  ) ,  और  University  of   सिनसिनाटी   (  2006–2009 ) .
A  अनुबंध   is   an   अनुबंध   having  a lawful object entered into voluntarily  by   दो  or more  पार्टियों  ,  प्रत्येक  of whom  intends  to create  एक   or   अधिक   विधिक  obligations  between  them .
The  तत्व  of a contract are ``  प्रस्ताव  '' and `` acceptance ''  by  ``  competent  persons  ''   having   विधिक   क्षमता  who exchange `` consideration '' to  बनाएँ  `` mutuality  of   दायित्व   .  ''
प्रमाण   of  some or  सब  of  ये   तत्व  may be  किया   in  writing  ,  though  अनुबंध  may  be   बना  entirely orally or by conduct  .
The remedy for  उल्लंघन   of   अनुबंध  can be `` damages '' in the form of  मुआवजे   of   धन  or  विशिष्ट  performance  enforced   through   an  injunction  .
Both of these remedies award the party  at  loss the `` benefit  of  the bargain  ''  or  अपेक्षा  damages ,  जिससे  are  वृहद  than mere  रिलायंस   क्षतिपूर्ति  , as  in  promissory  estoppel  .
The  पार्टियों  may be natural  व्यक्तियों  or juristic persons  .
A  अनुबंध   is  a  legally  enforceable  वादा  or undertaking  कि   कुछ   होगा   or  will not occur  .
The word promise  can   be  used as  a   विधिक  synonym  लिये   अनुबंध  , although  परवाह  is required  as  a promise may not have the  पूरा  standing of  a  contract  ,  as when it  is  an agreement without  विचार  .
अनुबंध   विधि  varies greatly from one jurisdiction to  another   ,  including differences  in  common law compared to civil  विधि  , the  प्रभाव   of  received law , particularly  इससे   इंग्लैण्ड  in  आम  law countries ,  और  of  विधि  codified in  क्षेत्रीय  legislation .
Regarding Australian Contract  विधि  for example ,  वहीँ   हैं   40   प्रासंगिक   अधिनियमों  which  प्रभाव   on   the  interpretation of contract at  the   राष्ट्रमंडल  (  संघीय  /  नेशनल  ) level  ,  and an additional 26 acts at the level of the  राज्य  of  nsw   .
In addition  वहीँ  are 6 international instruments  or  conventions  जिससे   हैं  applicable for international  dealings  , such  as  the United  राष्ट्र  Convention on  अनुबंध  for the International  बिक्री   of   goods  .
sidney  Patrick Crosby , ONS ( born August  7  ,  1987   )   is  a Canadian professional ice hockey player who  is  captain of  the   पिट्सबर्ग   penguins  of the National Hockey  लीग  ( NHL ) .
crosby  was  drafted  first overall by the Penguins  आउट  of the Quebec Major  जूनियर  Hockey  लीग  (  qmjhl   )  .
दौरान   उसके  two-year  प्रमुख  junior career  साथ  the  rimouski   océanic   ,   he  earned back-to-back CHL Player of the  साल  awards  और  led his club  to   the   2005   मेमोरियल   कप  final .
Nicknamed ``  the  Next One `` , he  थी  one  of  the  सबसे   अत्यधिक  regarded draft picks  in   हॉकी   इतिहास   ,  leading many  to  refer to  the  2005 Draft Lottery  as  the ``  sidney  Crosby Sweepstakes ''  .
In his first NHL season  ,  Crosby finished sixth  in  league  स्कोरिंग  with 102 points (  39   लक्ष्य  ,  63  assists  )   और   थी   a  runner-up for the Calder Memorial Trophy (  जीती  by Alexander  ovechkin  )  .
by  his  दूसरी  season  ,  he led the  एनएचएल   साथ  120 points ( 36 goals , 84  assists   )   to  capture  the  Art  रॉस   ट्रॉफी   ,  becoming the youngest player and  the   तभी  teenager to  जीत  a  स्कोरिंग   शीर्षक  in  कोई  major North American  खेल   लीग   .
कि  same season ,  crosby  also won  the  Hart Memorial Trophy as  the  Professional  हॉकी  Writers Association 's  चुनाव   लिये  most valuable player and  the  Lester  B.   पियर्सन   पुरस्कार   as   the   एनएचएल   खिलाड़ी  Association  's   चुनाव   लिये  most  बकाया  player ,  बनने   the  seventh player in  एनएचएल   इतिहास   to   earn   सब  three awards in one  साल  .
Crosby started  the  2007–08 season with the  टोली  's  कप्तानी  and  subsequently   led  them to the  2008  Stanley Cup  फाइनल   ,  where  वे   यहूद   पराजित   by  the Detroit Red  विंग्स   in  six  खेल  .
the  Penguins  लौटे   to  the  फाइनल   विरूद्ध  Detroit the  following   साल   और  won  in   सात  games ; Crosby became  the  youngest captain  in  NHL  इतिहास  to win  the  Stanley  कप   .
In the 2009–10 season , Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals , tying him  साथ  Steven  stamkos  for the Rocket Richard Trophy  as   the   league-leader   ;   साथ  58 assists ,  he  totaled 109  अंक  ,  दूसरी   in   the   एनएचएल   .
दौरान   the  off-season  ,   crosby   प्राप्त   the   चिह्नित   मेसियर  Leadership Award  .
In 2010–11  ,   crosby   sustained  a concussion  as  a result of  हिट्स  to the  सिर  in back-to-back  खेल   .
the  injury  बाएँ  him  sidelined   लिये  ten  और  a half months .
However  ,   बाद  playing eight games  in   the  2011–12  ऋतु  , Crosby 's concussion-like  लक्षण  returned in  दिसम्बर   2011   ,  and he  किया   नहीं  return  जबतक   mid-march  2012  .
internationally  , Crosby  रै   represented  Canada  in   numerous  tournaments  लिये   the   देश   's   जूनियर  and  मेन  's  टीमों  .
After competing in the 2003  u-18  Junior  संसार  Cup , he  represented  Canada  in  back-to-back IIHF World  u20   championships   ,   जीतना   चांदी  in 2004 and  सुनहरा   in   2005  .
At  the  2006 IIHF  संसार  Championship , he  led  the tournament  in  scoring ,  जबकि   भी  earning Top  आगे  and  all-star   टोली  honours .
Four years  बाद   ,   crosby  was named to  टोली  Canada for  the   2010   शीत  Olympics  in   वैंकूवर  .
playing  the  संयुक्त  States  in  the  सुनहरा  medal  खेल   ,   he   scored  the game-winning goal in overtime  .
a   संयुक्त  States  cent  , also known  as  a  पैनी  .
``  My  दो  cents ''  (   2¢  ) and  इसके  longer version  ``   put  my  दो   सेंट  in '' is an United States ( US  )   idiomatic   अभिव्यक्ति   ,  taken from  the   असली  English idiom  अभिव्यक्ति   :   to   put  in `` my  दो  pennies worth  ''  or  ``  my tuppence worth  .  ''
it  is used  to   preface  the  अंतरिम   stating  of one’s opinion .
By deprecating the opinion to  follow  – suggesting  इसके   मान   is   तभी  two  सेंट  ,  a   बहुत  small amount  –  the  उपयोक्ता   of  the  phrase  hopes  to   lessen  the impact  of  a  संभवतः   बयान  , showing  politeness  and humility .
however  , it is  भी  sometimes used  साथ  irony  जब  expressing a  strongly  felt  राय  .
the   phrase  is  भी  used out  of   आदत  to preface uncontentious opinions .
लिये   example:
The  चाइनीज  Civil War was  a   सिविल  war in China  लड़ा  between  शक्तियां   वफ़ादार   to   the  government of  the  Republic of China  led   by   the  Kuomintang (  kmt   )   और   शक्तियां   of  the Communist Party  of  China  (  CPC ) .
The  युद्ध  began in April  1927  , amidst  the   उत्तरी  Expedition  ,  and essentially ended when major active battles ceased  in  1950  .
the  conflict eventually resulted  in   दो   de  facto states , the  गणतंत्र  of China  (  ROC ) in  ताईवान  and  the   लोगों  's  गणतंत्र  of China  (  PRC )  in   मेनलैंड   चीन  , both  claiming  to  be   the   legitimate   सरकारी  of  चीन   .
the   युद्ध  represented an ideological  विभाजित  (  बाएँ   vs   .  Right ) between  the  Communist CPC ,  और  the  kmt  's  ब्रांड  of Nationalism .
the  civil war  जारी  intermittently until late 1937 ,  जब   the  two  पार्टियों  formed a Second  संयुक्त  Front  to   काउंटर  a Japanese  आक्रमण   .
चीन   's   full-scale  civil  युद्ध   resumed   in  1946 , a  साल   बाद   the   समाप्त   of  hostilities  साथ   जापानी  .
बाद  four  अधिक  years  ,   1950   देखी  the  cessation  of major military hostilities—with the  newly   संस्थापित  People  's  Republic  of  China controlling mainland China (  सहित  Hainan )  ,   और   the   गणतंत्र   of  China  's  jurisdiction  होने  restricted  to  Taiwan , Penghu , Quemoy , Matsu  और  several  outlying   आइलैंड्स  .
the  Kuomintang defeat is  attributed  to several  कारकों  : Corruption  -  Chiang  लिखा  in  उसके  diary  on  June  1948   कि  the KMT  था   विफल   ,  not because  of   बाह्य  enemies but because of rot from within  .
Strong initial support  इससे   the   u.S.  diminished , and  तब  , stopped .
(   partly  because  of  KMT corruption and anti-democratic regime , and  partly   क्युकी  of  the   अनिश्चित   u.S.   विदेशी   नीति   towards  Communism  between  1945 and  1950   )  ; Communist  जमीन  reform  नीति   promised  poor  peasants  farmland from  उनके  landlords  .
This ensured PLA  लोकप्रिय   support  .
After the surrender  of   जापानी  at  the   समाप्त  of World  युद्ध   ii  ,  सोवियत  forces  turned  over  उनके   captured   जापानी   हथियार  to  the   cpc   और  allowed  the  CPC to  लो  control of territory in  मंचूरिया  .
to   इस  day ,  no   armistice  or peace  सन्धि   रै  ever been  हस्ताक्षरित  ,  और   it  is  debated   as   to  the whether the  सिविल   युद्ध  has legally  ended  .
cross-strait  relations have  महरूम  hindered by  सैन्य  threats and political and economic  दबाव  , particularly over  ताईवान  's political  औकात   ,  with both governments officially adhering  to   a   ``   one-china  policy  .   ''
the  PRC  स्टिल  actively claims  ताईवान   as  part of its territory  और  continues  to   threaten   the   आरओसी  with  a   सैन्य   आक्रमण  if  the   आरओसी  officially declares independence  by  changing  इसके  name to  और  gaining international  मान्यता   as   the  Republic  of  Taiwan  .
the  ROC mutually  दावा   मेनलैंड  China  ,   और  they both continue  the   लड़ो  over  राजनयिक  recognition  .
Today , the war  as  such  occurs  on  the   राजनैतिक  and economic  fronts  in  the  form of  cross-strait  relations ; however  ,   the   दो   पृथक  de facto states  have   बंद   आर्थिक  ties  .
The  एक   सौ  Twelfth United  राज्य  Congress was the meeting  of  the  विधान  branch of  the  United States  संघीय  government , from  जनवरी  3 ,  2011  until January 3 ,  2013   .
it  convened in Washington ,  d.C.  on January  3  , 2011 ,  और  ended  on   जनवरी  3  ,   2013  , 17 days before  the   समाप्त  of  the   अध्यक्षीय  term  to   जिससे  Barack Obama  थी  elected in 2008 .
सीनेटरों  elected to  नियमित   शर्तें  in  2006   समाप्त  those  शर्तें   in   इस  Congress .
This Congress  शामिल  the last House  of  Representatives elected from congressional  जिले   कि   यहूद   apportioned   आधारित  on the 2000  जनसांख्यिकी  .
in  the  2010  midterm elections , the  रिपब्लिकन  Party  जीती   the  majority  in   the   हाउस   of  Representatives .
While the Democrats  रखा  their Senate majority ,  it  was  घटाया   इससे  the previous Congress  .
This was the  पहला  Congress in which the House and  सीनेट  were controlled by different parties  चूंकि  the  107th  Congress ( 2001–2003 )  ,   और   the   पहला   कॉंग्रेस  to  शुरू  that way  चूंकि  the 99th Congress (  1985–1987  ) .
In this Congress  ,   the   हाउस  of  प्रतिनिधि   था  the largest  क्रमांक  of  रिपब्लिकन  members , 242  ,  since the 80th Congress (  1947–1949  ) .
It was  भी  the first Congress  चूंकि  1947 in which no member  of  the Kennedy family served ,  as  well  as  the most  नीतियां   polarized  Congress  चूंकि   पुनर्निर्माण  , with record  कम  approval ratings .
Wealth in the  संयुक्त  States is  commonly   measured  in  शर्तें  of net worth , which  is  the  योग   of  all assets  ,  including home  इक्विटी  ,  ऋण   सब  liabilities .
the   कुल  net worth of US  households  and  nonprofit  organizations 1945–2009 , unadjusted for inflation or population  बदलें  .
For example , a household  in  possession of an $ 800,000  हाउस  ,  $   5,000   in  mutual funds ,  $  30,000 in  गाड़ियाँ  ,  $   20,000   लायक   of  stock in their  अपना  company ,  और  a  $  45,000 IRA would  have  assets  totaling   $  900,000  .
Assuming that  इस   household   होता  have a $  250,000   बंधक  , $ 40,000  in   car  loans , and  $   10,000   in  credit  कार्ड  debt , its debts would total $  300,000  .
subtracting   the   debts   इससे  the worth of  इस  household 's assets  (  900,000  -  $  300,000  =  $  600,000 ) ,  इस   household  would have  a   जाल   लायक  of $ 600,000 .
Net  लायक   can   vary  with  fluctuations   in  value of the underlying assets .
the   माल   —more  specifically ,  the   मध्य  net worth—of households  in   the  United  राज्य   is  varied with  संबंध  to race , education  ,   भौगोलिक   स्थान  and gender .
As  एक  would  expect   ,   households   साथ  greater  आय  feature  the   उच्चतम   जाल  worths ,  हालांकि  high income  can  not be taken  as  an always  सटीक   indicator  of net  लायक   .
overall  the number of wealthier households  is   on  the  वृद्धि   ,   साथ  baby  boomers  hitting the  highs   of   उनके   करियर  .
In addition  ,  wealth  is  unevenly  वितरित  ,  साथ   the  wealthiest  25   %   of  US households  owning   87  % of  the   माल  in  the   संयुक्त  States ,  जिससे  was $  54.2  trillion  in   2009  .
Including human capital  ऐसे  as skills ,  the  United Nations estimated  the  total  माल  of the  संयुक्त  States in  2008  to  be   $  118 trillion  .
This  आलेख  deals with  चयनात्मक  Dorsal Rhizotomy  (   sdr   )   बल्कि  than  the  rhizotomy procedures for pain  राहत  ;  लिये  those  प्रक्रियाओं  ,  जिससे   have   begun   to   लो  the  नाम   ``   rhizotomy  '' in certain  उदाहरण   ,   देखिए  facet rhizotomy and  समान   .
A rhizotomy  (   )  is a term  chiefly   referring   to   a   neurosurgical  procedure that selectively destroys problematic  तंत्रिका  roots in the  स्पाइनल  cord , most often to  relieve  the symptoms  of  neuromuscular conditions such as  spastic  diplegia and other forms of spastic cerebral palsy .
the  selective dorsal  rhizotomy  ( SDR  )  for spastic cerebral palsy  रै   महरूम   the  main use  of   rhizotomy   लिये   neurosurgeons   specialising  in  spastic  CP since  the   1980s  ; in  इस  surgery  ,   the  spasticity-causing nerves are isolated and then  targeted  and  नष्ट   .
The  संवेदी   तंत्रिका   जड़ें   ,   जहाँ   spasticity   is   स्तिथ   ,   हैं   पहला  separated  इससे  the motor  ones  , and  the  nerve fibres  to  be cut  हैं   तब  identified via  electromyographic  stimulation  .
The ones producing spasticity are then selectively  lesioned  with  छोटा  electrical pulses  .
In  spasticity   ,  rhizotomy precisely targets  और  destroys the damaged  nerves   कि  don’t  प्राप्त   गामा   अमीनो  butyric acid , which is the core  प्रॉब्लम   लिये   लोगों  with spastic cerebral  palsy  .
These over-firing ,  non-gaba-absorbing  nerves generate unusual  विद्युत  activity during the EMG  परीक्षण  phase in  sdr   और  are thus considered to be  the   सोर्स  of  the   रोगी   's   hypertonia  ;  वे  are eliminated with  the   विद्युत   pulses  once  पहचाना   ,  while  the   बाकी   nerves  and nerve  रूट  carrying the  सही  messages remain fully intact  और  untouched .
This means that the  spasticity   is   permanently   dissolved  , and that  इस  is done without  affecting  nervous  प्रणाली   संवेदनशीलता  or  फलन   in   अन्य   क्षेत्रों  , because the  तभी   nerves   नष्ट  are the  over-firing  ones  जिम्मेदार   लिये   the  muscle tightness .
the  terms  rhizotomy   और   neurotomy  are also increasingly becoming interchangeable in the  उपचार  of chronic  वापस  pain from  अपक्षयी   डिस्क   बीमारी  .
इस  is a  कार्यविधि   पुकारा  a  facet  rhizotomy  और  is not a  सर्जिकल  procedure but is  बजाय  done  on  an  outpatient   आधार  using  a   सरल  probe to apply radiofrequency  लहरें   to  the impinged  pain-causing   तंत्रिका  root  lying   between  the facet  संयुक्त   और  the  vertebral  body .
Such  रेडियो  frequency  तंत्रिका   lesioning  results in five to eight  or   अधिक  months  of   पीड़ा  relief before the  तंत्रिका   regenerates  and another round of the procedure needs  to   be  performed  .
a   facet  rhizotomy is just one  of  many different  फ़ॉर्म  of  radiofrequency  ablation  ,  and  इसके   उपयोग  of the  ``   rhizotomy  '' name  चाहिए  not be  उलझन   साथ  the SDR  कार्यविधि   .
Migrant workers in California  ,   1935
The  पद  migrant  कार्यकर्ता   रै  different  आधिकारिक   meanings  and  connotations   in   अलग  parts  of   the  world .
the   संयुक्त   राष्ट्र  ' definition is  व्यापक  , including any  लोगों   working   बाहर  of  उनके   घर  country  .
The term can  भी  be used  to   describe   किसी  who migrates within  a   देश   ,  possibly their own  ,  in order to pursue work  ऐसे  as seasonal work  .
Photograph of Lil Wayne with teardrop tattoos below his eyes  .
The  teardrop   टैटू   or  tear tattoo is a symbolic tattoo that  is  placed  underneath  the  नजर  .
it  has no fixed meaning but almost  सब   meanings  (  देखिए   नीचे  ) have  कुछ  connection  to   थाना  .
U.S.  रूट  75 is a north–south  u.S.   राजमार्ग  .
The highway 's northern  टर्मिनस   is  in Kittson County  ,   मिनेसोटा   ,   at  the  कनाडाई   किनारा  , where  it  once continued  as  Manitoba Highway 75  on   the  other side  of  the  now-closed   किनारा  crossing .
Its southern terminus is  at   अंतरराज्यीय   30   और   अंतरराज्यीय   45   in   डलास   ,  Texas , where  it   is   ज्ञात  as  उत्तर   सेंट्रल  Expressway .
U.S. 75  थी  a  border-to-border  route  ,  from Canada  to  the Gulf  of   मैक्सिको   at  Galveston , Texas  .
however  , the  संपूर्ण   खण्ड   दक्षिण   of  Dallas ,  टेक्सास  has been  decommissioned  in  एहसान   of  Interstate  45   ,  a cutoff section of  town-to-town  surface road having become State  राजमार्ग  75 .
Lower Ninth Ward is  a  neighborhood of  the  city  of   नई   ऑरलियन्स   .
As  the   नाम   implies  , it is part  of   the   नवीं  Ward of New Orleans .
The Lower  नवीं  Ward is often thought  of   as  the  संपूर्ण  area  भीतर  New  ऑरलियन्स  downriver of the Industrial Canal ;  however  , the City Planning Commission divides  इस   क्षेत्रफल   into  the  निम्नतर  Ninth Ward ( 2  )   और   पावन  Cross  (  3  )  neighborhoods  .
the  term  ``   निम्नतर  ''  refers   to  its location farther  towards   the   मुँह   of   the  Mississippi River , `` down  ''   or  `` below ''  the  rest of  the   नगर  in  लोकल   भौगोलिक   शब्दावली  .
But the  9th  Ward , like all Wards in New Orleans , is  a   मतदान  district .
The  9th   वार्ड  was  added  as  a  voting district in  1852  .
The  ``   निम्नतर  '' 9th Ward is composed of  वार्ड   9  Districts 1  ,  2  ,  4 , and 7 which make up the Holy Cross Area and Ward  9   जिले  3  ,  5  ,  6  ,   और  8  .
उच्चतर  voting district  संख्याएँ  in  the   9th   वार्ड  ( 8-27 ) are on the upriver side  of  the  औद्योगिक  Canal  .
The area came  to   नेशनल   ध्यान   लिये  its devastation in the aftermath  of  Hurricane Katrina in  2005   .
Hubble views of  कोपरनिकस  crater  (   इनसेट  )  ,  which is  परिचय  58 miles ( 93  km   )   चौड़ी
Red  और   नारंगी   tinted  Moon , as seen from Earth  दौरान   a   चंद्र  eclipse , where the Earth comes  between  the  चंद्रमा  and Sun
The Moon is the  तभी  natural satellite of the Earth  ,   और  the fifth largest  उपग्रह   in  the Solar System  .
it  is  the  largest  प्राकृतिक  satellite  of  a  ग्रह  in the  सौर   प्रणाली  relative to  the   आकार  of its primary ,  having  27 % the diameter  और   60  % the density of Earth , resulting in its mass .
the   चंद्रमा  is the second densest satellite after Io  ,   a   उपग्रह   of   बृहस्पति  .
The  चंद्रमा  is  in   तुल्यकालिक  rotation with Earth ,  सदा  showing  the  same face with its  निकट  side marked by dark volcanic maria  कि   भरण   between  the bright  प्राचीन   crustal   हाइलैंड्स  and the prominent  प्रभाव   craters   .
it  is the  brightest   ऑब्जेक्ट  in  the  sky after the Sun , although  इसके  surface is  दरअसल   बहुत  dark  ,   साथ  a  reflectance  similar  to  that  of   कोयले   .
इसके  prominence  in   the   आसमान   और   इसके  regular  साईकिल  of phases  have   ,  since ancient times ,  बना  the Moon  an   महत्वपूर्ण  cultural influence on  भाषा  ,  पंचांग  , art and  mythology  .
The Moon 's  गुरुत्वाकर्षक  influence  produces   the   समंदर  tides and  the   मिनट  lengthening  of  the day .
The Moon 's  वर्तमान   कक्षीय  distance , about  तीस  times  the   व्यास   of  the Earth  ,  causes  it   to  appear  लगभग  the same  आकार  in the sky as  the  Sun , allowing  it   to   कवर  the Sun  nearly  precisely in  कुल   सौर  eclipses  .
This matching of  apparent  visual size is a coincidence .
the  Moon 's linear  अलहदा  from the  धरती  is currently increasing at  a  rate  of   3.82±0.07cm  per year  ,   लकिन  this rate  is  not  निरंतर   .
The  चंद्रमा  is thought to have formed  nearly  4.5 billion years ago , not  long  after  the  Earth .
हालांकि  there  have   महरूम   अनेक  hypotheses  लिये  its  उत्पत्ति  in the  पास्ट  ,  the  current  सबसे  widely  स्वीकृत   स्पष्टीकरण   is  that  the   चंद्रमा  formed  इससे  the debris left  over  after  a  giant impact  between  Earth and  a   मंगल  -sized body .
The  चंद्रमा  is  the  only  celestial   देह   अन्य   than   धरती  on which humans have set  पैर   .
the  Soviet Union 's  luna  programme was the  पहला   to   पहुँचें  the Moon  साथ  unmanned  spacecraft  in 1959  ;  the United  राज्य  ' NASA Apollo program  हासिल  the only  मानवयुक्त  missions  to  date ,  शुरूआत  with  the  first  मानवयुक्त   चंद्र  orbiting mission  by   अपोलो  8  in   1968  , and  छह  manned lunar  अवतरण  between  1969  and  1972  ,  साथ   the  first being  अपोलो  11  .
ये   मिशन   लौटे   over   380   kg  of lunar  रॉक्स  , which  have   महरूम   प्रयुक्त  to  develop   a   geological  understanding  of  the  चंद्रमा   's  origins , the  गठन  of its  आतंरिक  structure  ,  and its subsequent history .
After the Apollo  17   मिशन  in 1972  ,   the  Moon has  महरूम  visited only by unmanned  spacecraft   ,   notably  by  the  final  सोवियत   lunokhod   रोवर  .
Since  2004  , Japan ,  चीन   ,  India , the United States ,  और   the  European  स्पेस  Agency  have  each sent lunar orbiters .
These spacecraft  have  contributed to  confirming   the  discovery  of   चंद्र   जल  ice in permanently  shadowed   craters  at the  डंडे  and  बंधी   into  the lunar  regolith   .
भविष्य  manned missions to  the   चंद्रमा   have  been planned , including government  as  well as privately  वित्तपोषित  efforts .
The Moon  remains   ,   अंतर्गत   the  Outer Space  सन्धि  , free  to  all  राष्ट्र  to  explore   लिये   शांतिपूर्ण   उद्देश्य   .
रोनाल्ड  Wilson Reagan (  ;   फ़रवरी  6  ,   1911   –   जून  5 , 2004 )  थी  the  40th  President of  the  United  राज्य  ( 1981–1989  )   .
prior  to that  ,   he  was  the  33rd Governor  of  California (  1967–1975  ) ,  और   a  radio , film  और   टेलीविज़न  actor .
Born in  tampico   ,   इलिनोइस   ,  and  उठाया   in  Dixon , Reagan was educated at Eureka College , earning a  स्नातक   of  Arts  उपाधि  in  अर्थशास्त्र  and sociology .
After graduating  ,  Reagan moved first to Iowa to  कार्य  as a radio  प्रसारणकर्ता  and then , in  1937   ,  to Los Angeles where he  began   a  career  as   an  actor , first in  films  and later television  .
कुछ   of   उसके  most  notable  films include  knute  Rockne , All American (  1940   )   ,   किंग्स  Row  (  1942 ) ,  और   bedtime  for  bonzo  ( 1951 ) .
reagan  served as  अध्यक्ष  of the  स्क्रीन  Actors  गिल्ड  and later  as   a  spokesman  लिये  General Electric  (  GE  )  ; his start  in  politics  occurred  during his work  लिये  GE  .
Originally  a   सदस्य   of  the  लोकतांत्रिक  Party , his positions  began  shifting rightward  in  the  1950s  ,  और   he  switched  to  the  रिपब्लिकन  Party in  1962  .
After delivering  a  rousing speech  in   support   of  Barry  goldwater  's  अध्यक्षीय  candidacy in  1964   ,   he   थी  persuaded to  तलाश  the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  governorship  ,  winning  दो  years later  और  again in 1970  .
He was defeated in  उसके   चलाएं  for  the  Republican presidential nomination in  1968  and  in  1976  ,  but won  दोनो  the nomination and  सामान्य  election in 1980  ,  defeating  लाज़िम   jimmy  Carter .
As president , Reagan implemented sweeping new political and  आर्थिक  initiatives .
His  supply-side  economic policies ,  उतावले  ``  reaganomics   ``  , advocated reducing  कर   दरों   to  spur  आर्थिक  growth  ,  controlling the  धन  supply to  reduce  inflation , deregulation of  the  economy , and reducing government  बिता  .
in  his  पहला  term  he  survived an  हत्या  attempt  ,  took a  मुश्किल  line against labor unions , announced  a  new War on Drugs  ,  and ordered  an  invasion  of  Grenada .
he   थी  re-elected  in   a  landslide  in  1984 , proclaiming  कि  it was `` Morning  in   अमेरिका   ``  .
His second  पद  was primarily marked  by   विदेशी  matters  ,   ऐसे  as  the   समाप्ति   of   the   ठंडा   युद्ध  ,  the  1986 bombing  of  Libya  ,  and the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair  .
Publicly describing the Soviet Union as an `` evil  साम्राज्य  `` ,  he  supported anti-communist movements  विश्वव्यापी  and spent  उसके  first  पद   forgoing  the strategy of  détente  by ordering  a   विशाल  military buildup in an  बाहें   रेस  with  the   ussr  .
reagan   negotiated  with Soviet  सामान्य   सचिव   मिखाइल  Gorbachev , culminating in  the  INF Treaty and  the  decrease of both  देशों   '  nuclear  arsenals   .
Reagan  बाएँ   दफ्तर  in  1989  .
In  1994  ,  the  former  अध्यक्ष  disclosed that he  था   महरूम   diagnosed   साथ   अल्जाइमर   's   बीमारी  earlier in the year  ;  he died ten years  बाद   at  the age  of   93   .
A conservative  प्रतीक   ,  he  बाँधने   अत्यधिक   in  public  राय  polls  of  U.S.  राष्ट्रपतियों   और   is   credited  for generating  an  ideological renaissance on the American political right .
Complete  नियत   of   scrolls   ,   constituting   the  entire Tanakh .
The  tanakh  (  ,  or  ;   भी   tenakh  , Tenak  ,  Tanach )  is   a   नाम  used in Judaism for  the  canon of the Hebrew Bible .
The Tanakh is also known  as   the  Masoretic  टेक्स्ट  or  the  Miqra .
The  नाम  is an  एक्रोनिम  formed from the  आरंभिक  Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three  परंपरागत   subdivisions  : The Torah  (  `` Teaching '' ,  भी  known as  the   पाँच   किताबे   of   मूसा  ) ,  nevi'im   (  `` Prophets  ''   )  and Ketuvim (  ``   कृतियाँ  ''  )   —hence  TaNaKh .
The name `` Miqra  ''   (  מקרא ) , meaning `` that which  is  read '' ,  is   an  alternative Hebrew term  लिये  the Tanakh  .
The books  of  the Tanakh were  relayed  with an accompanying oral tradition  passed  on by each  पीढी   ,   पुकारा  the Oral  तोरा  .
the   कावासाकी  Ninja  zx-6r   is  a Kawasaki  600  cc  क्लास  sport  मोटरसाइकिल   .
it  was  introduced  in 1995 ,  और  has been constantly  अद्यतनीकृत  throughout  the   सालो   in   जवाब  to  नई  products from  होंडा   ,  Suzuki ,  और  Yamaha  .
the   zx  series is  कया  was  ज्ञात  as  the  Ninja  लकीर  of  कावासाकी   मोटरसाइकिल   in  the  1980s   और  still carries the name  आज  .
हत्या   कोशिशें  and  भूखंड  on Presidents  of   the  United States  have   महरूम   numerous  :  अधिक  than 20  कोशिशें   to   मार  sitting and former presidents  ,  as well as the Presidents-elect  ,  are known .
Four sitting presidents  have  been  मारे  : Abraham  lincoln   (   the  16th  अध्यक्ष   )  , James A. Garfield ( the 20th  अध्यक्ष  )  ,   विलियम   mckinley  ( the 25th President ) and John F. Kennedy  (  the 35th  अध्यक्ष  )  .
Two presidents were injured in attempted  assassinations   :  former President  थियोडोर  Roosevelt ( the 26th  अध्यक्ष  ) , and President  रोनाल्ड  Reagan (  the   40th  President )  .
हालांकि  the historian  j.w  .  क्लार्क  has suggested that  सबसे  American assassinations  यहूद  politically motivated actions  ,   carried  out by rational men , not  सब  such attacks  have   महरूम  undertaken  लिये  political reasons .
Some  हमलावर  had questionable  दिमागी  stability , and  a  few were  judged  legally insane  .
Since the Vice President  of   the   संयुक्त  States has  लिये  more than  a   सदी  been  निर्वाचित  from  the   वही   राजनैतिक  party  as  the  अध्यक्ष  ,  the  assassination of the President is unlikely  to   परिणाम  in major policy changes .
इस  may explain why  राजनैतिक  groups typically do not make such attacks .
Where the  रेड  Fern  grows  is  a  novel  लिखा  by  विल्सन   राल्स   in   1961  about a boy  जो  buys and trains two Redbone  coonhound   शिकार   कुत्तो  .
Oklahoma (  )  ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa ,  cay  :  gahnawiyoˀgeh   )   is  a state  स्तिथ   in  West South Central United States  .
ओक्लाहोमा  is the  20th   सबसे  extensive and  the  28th most populous of the  50  United  राज्य   .
The state 's name  is  derived from  the  Choctaw  शब्द   okla  and humma , meaning ``  रेड  people ''  ,  and it is known  informally   by   इसके  nickname  ,  The Sooner State  .
Formed  by   the  combination  of  Oklahoma Territory and  भारतीय   territory  on November  16  ,  1907  ,  ओक्लाहोमा   थी  the 46th  राज्य  to enter  the   संघ  .
Its residents are  ज्ञात  as Oklahomans  or  , informally `` Okies  ''  ,  और  its  पूंजी   और   largest  city  is   ओक्लाहोमा  City  .
a  major  निर्माता   of   प्राकृतिक  gas , oil  ,  and agriculture , Oklahoma  relies  on an  आर्थिक   आधार  of  विमानन  , energy  ,   दूरसंचार   ,  and  जैवप्रौद्योगिकी  .
It has  एक  of the fastest  growing   economies  in  the  nation , ranking among the top  राज्य  in  प्रति  capita  आय  growth  और   सकल   घरेलू  product growth .
ओक्लाहोमा  City and Tulsa serve  as  Oklahoma 's  प्राथमिक   आर्थिक   anchors  ,  साथ   nearly   दो   तिहाई  of  oklahomans   जीना  within their metropolitan statistical  क्षेत्रों  .
With small mountain ranges  ,  prairie , mesas , and eastern  वनों  , most  of   ओक्लाहोमा   झूठ  in  the  Great Plains  और  the U.S  .  Interior Highlands —a region especially  prone  to  कठोर   मौसम  .
In addition to having a prevalence  of   अंग्रेज़ी  , German ,  स्कॉटिश  , Irish and  देशी   अमरीकी  ancestry , more  than  25  देशी  American languages are  बोला  in Oklahoma , second only  to   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Oklahoma  is   स्तिथ   on   a   संगम  of three major American cultural regions and  historically  served as a  रूट  for  चौपायों  drives  ,  a  गंतव्य  for southern  settlers  , and  a  government-sanctioned  territory  for  देशी  Americans .
Redwall ,  by  Brian Jacques , is a series  of   children  's fantasy  novels  .
It is the  शीर्षक   of   the   पहला  book of the  श्रेणी  , published  in  1986 , as well as the name of the Abbey featured in  the   किताब  and the name  of   an  animated  tv  series based on  तीन   of  the novels (  redwall  ,  mattimeo  ,  और  Martin  the   योद्धा  ) , which first aired  in   1999   .
The  किताबे   हैं  primarily aimed  at   पुरानी  children ,  लकिन  have fans of all  आयु  .
There have been twenty-two  novels  and two  चित्र  books  प्रकाशित  .
The twenty-second , and final , novel  ,   the  Rogue Crew ,  थी  posthumously released on May 3 , 2011 .
Natural  गैस   is  usually measured  by   आवाज़   in  the  संयुक्त  States and is  stated   in  cubic  फीट  .
A cubic  पैर  of gas  is   the  amount of gas  needed  to fill a volume  of  one  घन  foot under set  शर्तें  of pressure and temperature.To  माप   larger  amounts  of  natural gas  ,  a  ``  therm  ''   is  used to denote 100 cubic feet , and `` mcf ''  is  used  to  denote 1,000  घन  feet .
To provide greater accuracy  in  comparing fuels , energy  सामग्री  is measured in  शर्तें  of  ``  British Thermal Units (  btu  's  )  . ''
A  btu  is  the  amount  of  heat required  to   उठाएँ  one  पाउंड   of  water ( approximately  a  pint  )  , one  उपाधि   फ़ारेनहाइट   at  or  बंद   to   इसके  point of  अधिकतम  density  .
One British therm ( symbol thm )  is   a  non- SI  ईकाई  of  ऊष्मा   उर्जा  equal to 100,000 British thermal units ( BTU  )   .
It is approximately the  उर्जा   समतुल्य   of   burning  100 cubic feet  (  often referred  to  as  1   ccf  ) of natural  गैस   .
चूंकि  (  प्राकृतिक  Gas  )  meters measure  आवाज़  and not energy content  ,  a therm  फ़ैक्टर   is  used  by   (  Natural ) gas  कंपनियाँ  to convert  the  volume of gas used to its heat equivalent  ,  and thus calculate  the  actual energy use  .
The  therm  factor is usually in  the  units therms/CCF  .
It  होगा   vary   साथ   the  mix of hydrocarbons in  the   प्राकृतिक   गैस   .
Natural gas  साथ  a higher than average concentration of ethane , propane or butane will have a higher therm factor  .
impurities  , such as carbon  डाइऑक्साइड  or nitrogen , lower the  therm  factor  .
the  volume of the gas  is   गणना   as  if measured at  मानक  temperature and pressure ( STP  )  .
The  ऊष्मा   सामग्री  of natural gas  is  solely  निर्भर  on the  संयोजन  of  the  gas , and is independent of temperature and pressure .
One therm is equal to about  105.5   megajoules  ,  25,200   kilocalories  or  29.3  kilowatt-hours .
One therm can  भी   be  provided by about of natural  गैस   .
The  therm   sometimes  has been  उलझन   साथ   the   thermie   (  see below  )   .
the  names of both  इकाई   आइये  from the  यूनानी  word for  ऊष्मा   .
A thermie ( th ) is  a  metric unit of heat  उर्जा  ,  भाग  of the meter-tonne-second system sometimes  प्रयुक्त  by  यूरोपीय  engineers .
The thermie is  बराबर   to  the amount  of   उर्जा   जरूरी   to  raise the  तापमान  of 1  टन  of  जल   by  1 °C  .
the  thermie  is   समतुल्य  to  1,000  kilocalories , 4.1868 megajoules  or   3968.3  BTU .
The  अमरीकी  Civil  युद्ध   (   acw  ) ,  भी   ज्ञात  as the War  between  the States  or   बस   the  Civil  युद्ध  ( see naming )  ,  was a civil war  लड़ा  from  1861   to  1865  between  the  संयुक्त  States (  the   ``  Union  ''   or  the ``  उत्तर  '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession  और   formed  the  confederate  States  of  America (  the  `` Confederacy '' or  the   ``  South  ''  ) .
the   युद्ध  had its origin in the issue of  गुलामी  , especially the  एक्सटेंशन   of  slavery  into   the   पश्चिमी  territories .
Foreign powers did  नहीं  intervene  .
बाद   चार   सालो  of bloody combat  कि   बाएँ  over  600,000   सैनिको   मुर्दे   और  destroyed much of  the  South  's  infrastructure , the  confederacy  collapsed ,  गुलामी   थी   abolished   ,  and  the   मुश्किल  Reconstruction process of  restoring  national  एकता   और  guaranteeing  अधिकारों  to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential  चुनाव   ,   republicans  , led by Abraham Lincoln ,  opposed   expanding   गुलामी  into  संयुक्त  States  '  territories .
Lincoln  जीती   ,   लकिन  before his  उद्घाटन  on March 4  ,  1861  ,  seven  cotton-based  slave states  formed  the Confederacy  .
outgoing   लोकतांत्रिक   अध्यक्ष  James Buchanan and the incoming  republicans   अस्वीकृत   secession  as  illegal   .
Lincoln 's  inaugural  address declared his administration  होता  not initiate  सिविल   युद्ध  .
Eight remaining  स्लेव  states  जारी   to  reject  काल्स   लिये  secession  .
Confederate  शक्तियां  seized  numerous  federal forts  भीतर   territory  claimed by  the   confederacy   .
a  Peace Conference  विफल  to find  a   सुलह   ,  and both sides  prepared  for  युद्ध  .
The Confederates assumed that  यूरोपीय   देशों   यहूद  so dependent  on   ``  King Cotton `` that  वे  would intervene  ;   none  did  और  none recognized  the  new Confederate  राज्य  of  अमेरिका  .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 ,  जब   confederate  forces  fired  upon Fort Sumter  ,   a   कुंजी  fort held by Union  सैनिकों  in South Carolina .
Lincoln called  लिये  each  राज्य  to  provide  troops to retake  the  fort ; consequently  ,  four more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total  to   ग्यारह   .
The Union soon controlled the border  राज्य  and established  a  naval  नाकेबंदी  that  अबोध   the   दक्षिणी  economy  .
The Eastern  थिएटर   थी   inconclusive   in  1861–62 .
The  पतझड़  1862  confederate  campaign  into  Maryland ( a  संघ  state  )   ended   साथ  Confederate retreat  at   the   बैटल  of Antietam ,  dissuading  British intervention .
lincoln   जारी  the  emancipation   उदघोषणा   ,  which  बना  ending slavery  a   युद्ध  goal .
To  the   वेस्ट   ,  by  गर्मियाँ  1862 the Union destroyed  the   confederate  river navy  ,  then  much   of   उनके   पश्चिमी  armies  ,  and the Union  at   vicksburg  split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi  नदी   .
in  1863 ,  रॉबर्ट  E. Lee  's   confederate   incursion  north ended  at   the  Battle  of  Gettysburg .
Western successes  led   to  Ulysses  S.   ग्रान्ट  command of  सब  Union  सेना  in 1864  .
in  the  पश्चिमी   थिएटर  , William T.  शरमन   drove  east to capture Atlanta and marched to the  समुद्र  , destroying  confederate   अवसंरचना  along the way  .
The Union marshaled  the   संसाधन   और  manpower  to   आक्रमण  the Confederacy from all directions  ,  and could afford to  लड़ो  battles of attrition  through   the   overland   अभियान   towards  Richmond  ,  the Confederate  पूंजी   .
The  defending  Confederate  फौज  failed  ,   अग्रणी   to  Lee  's  surrender  to  Grant at Appomattox Court House  on   अप्रैल  9  ,  1865 .
the   अमरीकी   सिविल   युद्ध  was one  of  the  earliest   सच्चा   औद्योगिक  wars .
Railroads  ,  the telegraph , steamships  ,  and mass-produced weapons were  employed  extensively  .
The mobilization  of   civilian  factories  ,  mines , shipyards  ,  banks  ,  transportation  और  food supplies all foreshadowed  संसार  War I .
it  remains the deadliest  युद्ध   in   अमरीकी  history  ,   resulting   in  the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers  और  an  undetermined   क्रमांक  of civilian  हताहत  .
इतिहासकार  John  huddleston  estimates  the  death toll at ten percent of all  उत्तरी  males 20–45  सालो   बूढ़ा   ,  and  30  percent of  सब   दक्षिणी  white males aged  18–40  .
विलियम  Bruce  जेनर  ( born  अक्तूबर   28  , 1949 )  is  a former U.S. track and  फ़ील्ड   खिलाड़ी  , motivational speaker ,  socialite  ,  टेलीविज़न   व्यक्तित्व   और   बिजनेसमैन  .
he   जीती  the gold  पदक   लिये   decathlon   in  the  मॉन्ट्रियल  1976 Summer  ओलंपिक  .
Following his  ओलम्पिक  win  और  the related recognition  ,  he married  क्रिस   कार्दशियन   ,  and his  पेशेवर   करियर  evolved into being a television  हस्ती   .
By  1981   ,   he  had starred  in   अनेक  made-for-TV  फिल्मों  and was Erik Estrada  's  replacement on the top rated  tv  series CHiPs .
He has  छह  children : Burt ,  केसी  ,  ब्रैंडन   ,  Brody ,  केंडल  and Kylie .
चूंकि  his 1991  विवाह   to   क्रिस  Jenner , he is the stepfather  to  Kourtney  ,  Kim  ,   khloe  and  रोब  Kardashian  .
चूंकि  2007 ,  he  has  appeared   साथ  his blended  परिवार  on Keeping Up with  the   kardashians   .
Escherichia coli  (  ; commonly abbreviated E.  कोलाई  )  is   a  Gram-negative , rod-shaped bacterium  कि   is  commonly  मिला   in  the lower  आंत   of   warm-blooded  organisms  (   endotherms  )  .
Most  E.   कोलाई  strains are harmless ,  लकिन  some serotypes can cause  गंभीर  food  विषाक्तता  in  इंसानो   ,   और   हैं  occasionally  जिम्मेदार   लिये  product recalls  due  to food contamination  .
The  हानिरहित  strains are  भाग  of  the   सामान्य   फ्लोरा  of the gut , and can benefit  उनके  hosts by producing vitamin  k2   ,  and by  preventing   the   स्थापना   of  pathogenic bacteria  भीतर  the intestine  .
E.  कोलाई  and related  जीवाणु  constitute about  0.1  %  of   आंत   फ्लोरा  , and  fecal–oral   हस्तांतरण  is the major  रूट   through  which pathogenic strains  of  the  bacterium  cause disease  .
कोशिकाएं  are able to  जीवित   बाहर  the  देह   लिये   a   सीमित  amount of  समय   ,  which  makes  them ideal indicator organisms  to  test environmental samples for fecal contamination .
There is  ,  however ,  a  growing  देह  of research  कि  has examined  environmentally   persistent   E.   कोलाई  which can  जीवित   लिये   विस्तारित  periods outside of the host  .
The  bacterium  can also be  grown  easily and inexpensively in  a   प्रयोगशाला   सेटिंग  , and has been intensively investigated for  over  60  सालो  .
E.  कोलाई   is  the most  widely   पढ़ाई  prokaryotic  मॉडल  organism ,  और   an  important  प्रजाति   in  the fields of biotechnology  और   सूक्ष्मजैविकी   ,   जहाँ  it has served  as  the  मेजबान  organism  लिये  the  बहुमत  of work with recombinant  डीएनए  .
Area code  217  is the North American telephone  क्षेत्रफल   कोड  for much of western and  सेंट्रल  Illinois .
The 217  क्षेत्रफल   शामिल  Illinois '  पूंजी   ,  Springfield ,  प्लस   champaign   ,   urbana  ,  decatur  , Danville  ,   क्विंसी   ,   और  Rantoul .
217  was one  of  the original  क्षेत्रफल  codes , which were  निर्मित   in  1947  .
The only significant  बदलें  in 217 's boundaries  थी   in  1957  ,  when  इसके   उत्तरी   portion  was combined  साथ  part of area  कोड   815  to form  क्षेत्रफल  code  309  .
Image  of  the  largest  Antarctic ozone hole  कभी   अंकित   (  September  2006  ) , over the  दक्षिणी  pole
Layers of the atmosphere ( not to  स्केल   )
Ozone depletion describes  दो  distinct but related phenomena observed  चूंकि  the late 1970s : a steady decline  of  about  4   %   प्रति  decade  in  the total volume  of  ozone in Earth  's  stratosphere  (  the  ओज़ोन  layer  )  , and  a   much  larger springtime decrease  in   stratospheric  ozone  over  Earth  's  polar regions .
The latter phenomenon is  referred  to as the  ओज़ोन  hole  .
In  जोड  to these well-known stratospheric  phenomena  , there are  भी  springtime polar tropospheric ozone  depletion  events  .
The details of polar ozone hole  गठन  differ  इससे   कि   of  mid-latitude  thinning  ,  लकिन   the  most  महत्वपूर्ण  process in both is catalytic  विनाश  of  ओज़ोन  by  परमाणु  halogens .
The main  सोर्स   of   ये  halogen atoms in  the   stratosphere   is   photodissociation  of man-made halocarbon  refrigerants  ( CFCs ,  freons  , halons ) .
ये  compounds  हैं  transported  into   the   stratosphere   बाद   होने  emitted  at  the surface .
दोनो   प्रकार   of  ozone depletion were observed  to  increase as emissions  of   halo-carbons   increased  .
CFCs and other contributory  substances  are  referred  to  as  ozone-depleting substances (  ods  )  .
चूंकि   the   ओज़ोन   परत   रोकता   सबसे  harmful  uvb  wavelengths (  280–315  nm ) of ultraviolet  लाइट  ( UV light  )  from passing  through  the Earth 's atmosphere , observed  और   प्रक्षिप्त   decreases   in  ozone  have   उत्पन्न  worldwide concern  अग्रणी  to adoption  of  the  मॉन्ट्रियल   प्रोटोकॉल   कि   bans  the production of  cfcs   ,   halons   ,  and other ozone-depleting  रसायन  such as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane  .
It  is   suspected   कि  a variety of biological  consequences  such as  increases   in  skin cancer , cataracts  ,  damage  to   पौधे   ,   और  reduction of  प्लवक   populations  in the ocean 's photic  मण्डल   may  result  इससे   the  increased UV exposure  due   to  ozone  depletion  .
the  Preamble to the United States Constitution  is  a  ब्रैड  introductory  बयान  of  the   संविधान  's fundamental  उद्देश्य  and  guiding   सिद्धान्त   .
it   राज्य   in   सामान्य  terms , and courts have referred  to   it   as  reliable evidence  of   ,  the Founding Fathers ' intentions  regarding  the  संविधान   's   अर्थ   और  what they hoped the  संविधान  would achieve  as  it pertains to all  of   the  people of the United  राज्य  .
as  the phrase , `` we the  लोगों  ''  suggests  that  the  new government originates  इससे   the  people of the  संयुक्त   राज्य   और  it sets  into  motion a  सवाल   as   it  pertains to  कि   विशाल  population concerning  the  individual rights  और  equality among all  लोगों   ;   इस  can be seen  सबसे   broadly   in   the  divide between republicanism and social democracy .
czechoslovakian  shot  putter  Plihan at the 1957  ईस्ट  German Indoor Athletics  championships
The shot put  (   सुनाया  )  is  a track  और  field event  involving  ``  फेंकना  '' / ''  putting  ''  (   फेंकना  in a pushing  गति  )  a  heavy  गोलाकार   ऑब्जेक्ट  —the shot—as far as  संभावित   .
The  शॉट  put  प्रतियोगिता  for  मेन   रै   महरूम  a part of the  आधुनिक   ओलंपिक   चूंकि  their  पुनरुद्धार   in  1896  ,  women  's  competition  began   in  1948 .
मैप   of   the   संयुक्त  Nations ( UN  )   सदस्य  states , with  उनके   territories  (  सहित  dependent territories  )  recognized  by  the UN  in  blue
There are  संयुक्त  Nations  (  UN )  सदस्य  states ,  और   प्रत्येक  of them  is  a  सदस्य  of  the   संयुक्त   राष्ट्र   सामान्य  Assembly .
The criteria  लिये   प्रवेश   of  new members are set out in the United Nations  चार्टर  , Chapter  ii   ,   आलेख   4:
A recommendation for admission from  the   सुरक्षा   परिषद   requires  affirmative votes  इससे  at least  नौ   of   the  council 's  पंद्रह  members , with none  of  the  पाँच  permanent  सदस्यों  voting against .
the   सुरक्षा   परिषद  's  अनुशंसा  must  तब  be subsequently  स्वीकृत  in the  सामान्य  Assembly by a two-thirds  बहुमत  vote  .
In  principle  ,  तभी  sovereign states  can  become UN members , and currently  सब  UN members are  sovereign  states  (   हालांकि  a  few  members were not  sovereign   जब   वे  joined the  un  ) .
Because a state  can  only  be  admitted to  the  UN by  the  approval of  the   सुरक्षा  Council and the General Assembly  ,  a  क्रमांक   of   राज्य  that may  be  considered sovereign  राज्य   according  to the Montevideo  सम्मेलन  criteria  हैं  not members  क्युकी   the  UN does  नहीं  consider them  to   possess  sovereignty , mainly  due  to  the   कमी   of  international recognition or opposition from  निश्चित  members  .
In addition  to   the  member states , the  un  also invites  non-member   राज्य  ( currently two : the Holy See and  फिलिस्तीन  )  ,   intergovernmental   संगठन  , and other  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  organizations and  entities   जिनकी   statehood   or  sovereignty are  नहीं  precisely defined  ,  to become observers at  the  General  सभा   ,   allowing  them to  participate   और  speak , but not vote , in General Assembly  बैठक  .
The  एफिल  Tower ( ,  )  is  an  iron  जाली   मीनार  located  on   the  Champ de  मंगल   in  Paris  ,   नामित  after  the  engineer Gustave  एफिल  , whose company  designed  and built  the   मीनार  .
erected   in  1889 as  the   प्रवेश   मेहराब  to the 1889 World 's Fair ,  it  has  become  both a global cultural  प्रतीक  of France and  एक  of the most recognizable  structures  in  the  world  .
the   मीनार  is  the   tallest   ढांचा  in  पेरिस  and  the   most-visited  paid  स्मारक  in  the  world ; 7.1  लाख  people  ascended   it  in  2011  .
The  तीसरा  level observatory  's   अपर  platform is  at   the   उच्चतम  accessible to  पब्लिक   in  the European  संघ  and  the   उच्चतम  in  यूरोपीय  as long as the platform of the Ostankino Tower , at , remains  बंद  as a result  of  the  आग  of  अगस्त  2000 .
The tower received  इसके  250  millionth   आगंतुक  in  2010  .
The  मीनार   स्टैंड  tall ,  परिचय   the   वही   ऊँचाई   as  an 81-storey building .
During  इसके  construction ,  the   एफिल  Tower surpassed the  वॉशिंगटन   स्मारक  to  assume  the  शीर्षक  of  the  tallest man-made  ढांचा  in  the   संसार   ,  a  शीर्षक  it held  लिये   41  years , until the Chrysler Building in New York  नगर   थी   निर्मित  in 1930  .
Because of the addition ,  in  1957 ,  of   the  antenna atop the Eiffel Tower  ,   it   is  now taller  than   the   क्रिसलर  Building .
Not including  ब्रॉडकास्ट  antennas ,  it  is the  second-tallest  structure in France  ,   बाद  the Millau Viaduct .
The  मीनार   रै  three levels for visitors .
Tickets  can  be purchased  to  ascend , by stairs or lift (  लिफ्ट  )  ,  to  the   पहला  and  दूसरी   स्तर  .
the  walk from ground level to the first level is over 300  कदम  , as is the  चलना  from  the   पहला   to  the second level  .
The  तीसरा  and highest level is accessible  तभी  by  lift—stairs  do exist but  हैं  usually closed to the  पब्लिक  .
The  पहला   और  second levels  have   रेस्तरां  .
The tower  रै  become  the  most  prominent   प्रतीक  of both Paris  और  France  ,  often in the establishing  शॉट  of films set in the  नगर  .
केनेथ  Wayne `` Ken '' Jennings  iii   (   born  May  23   ,  1974  )   is   an  American  खेल  show contestant and author  .
जेनिंग्स  is  विख्यात  for holding the  रिकार्ड  for the  longest  winning  streak  on the U.S.  syndicated  game show Jeopardy !
and as being  the  all-time leading  धन   विजेता   on  American  खेल   shows   .
In  2004  , Jennings  जीती  74  jeopardy  !
खेल  before he was defeated by challenger Nancy Zerg on  उसके  75th appearance .
उसके  total  आय   on   jeopardy  !
are  $  3,172,700  ,  consisting  of   $   2,520,700   over  his 74 wins  ,  a $ 2,000 second-place prize in  उसके   75th  appearance  ,  a  $  500,000 second-place prize  in  the Jeopardy  !
Ultimate  टूर्नामेंट   of  Champions , as  खूब   as  half  of  a $ 300,000 prize in the IBM  चुनौती  .
During his  पहला  run  of  Jeopardy  !
appearances , Jennings  अर्जित  the record for the highest American game  दिखाएँ  winnings  .
His total was  surpassed  by Brad  rutter  ,  जो  defeated Jennings  in   the  finals  of  the Jeopardy !
परम  Tournament of  champions  ( first  aired   on  May 25 ,  2005   )  , adding $  2,000,000  to Rutter 's  मौजूदा  Jeopardy !
winnings .
जेनिंग्स  regained the record after appearing  on  several  अन्य  game  shows   ,  culminating in  an  appearance on Are  तुम  Smarter Than  a  5th Grader  ?
( first  aired   on  October 10 ,  2008  )  ,  though  rutter  retains  the  Jeopardy !
record .
After  उसके  success  on   jeopardy   !   ,   जेनिंग्स   लिखा  about  उसके  experience and  छान   अमरीकी  trivia history  और  culture  in   उसके  book  brainiac  : Adventures in  the  Curious ,  प्रतिस्पर्धी  ,  बाध्यता   संसार   of   ट्रिविया   buffs   ,  published  in   2006   .
the   कनाडाई   फ़ुटबॉल  League or CFL  (   '  [  lcf  ] in  फ्रेंच   )  is  a  professional sports  लीग   स्तिथ  in  कनाडा  .
The CFL is the  उच्चतम  level of  प्रतियोगिता   in  Canadian  फ़ुटबॉल  ,  a   रूप  of  gridiron   फ़ुटबॉल  closely related to American football  .
इसके  eight current  टीमों   ,  which are located in  आठ   पृथक   शहरों  , are  विभाजित   into  two  विभाजन  of  चार  teams  प्रत्येक  —  the  East Division and the West Division  .
the  league 's 19-week regular season  रनों   इससे   लेट  June  to  early  नवम्बर   ;  each team plays 18 games with  एक  bye week  .
following   the   नियमित   ऋतु   ,  the  तीन   टीमों   साथ   the  best  रिकॉर्ड   in  their  प्रभाग   (  except if  the   चौथी  place  टोली   in  one division  रै  a better  रिकार्ड   than   the   तीसरा   प्लेस  team  in  the other division ,  जब  the team with the  बेहतर  record  makes   the  playoffs  और   ``   crosses   over  '' to the other  प्रभाग   's   playoff  )  compete   in   the  league 's  three-week   डिवीजनल   playoffs   ,  which culminate in the  late-november  Grey Cup  चैंपियनशिप   ,  the country 's  largest  annual  खेल   और  television  इवेंट   .
the  CFL was officially founded on  जनवरी   19   ,   1958   ,  making  it   the  second  oldest   gridiron  football  लीग  in North America  स्टिल  in operation  ,   हालांकि  all its  टीमों   long   predate  the modern formation  of  the league .
It is the highest level of  खेल  in Canadian  फ़ुटबॉल  , the most  लोकप्रिय   फ़ुटबॉल   लीग  in  कनाडा  , and the second-most  लोकप्रिय  major sports league in  कनाडा   ,  after  the  National Hockey  लीग   .
हालांकि  ice  हॉकी  is Canada 's  सबसे  popular sport  ,   the   cfl  has increased  the  popularity of Canadian  फ़ुटबॉल   in   क्यूबेक   और  Western Canada .
कनाडाई  football is also  निभाई  at amateur levels (  i.e   .   युवावस्था  ,  ऊँची   स्कूल  ,  cjfl   ,  QJFL  ,  CIS  और   वरिष्ठ  leagues  ऐसे  as the  अलबर्टा  Football League  )  .
The 2010s will  be  a significant decade for  the   cfl   in  terms of growth  ,   as  teams have renovated , expanded stadiums  ,   or  plan  to  build entirely new  स्टेडियम   .
The Montreal  अलॉतेस  accomplished  इस   पहला  , adding  5,000  seats to  पर्सिवल  Molson  मेमोरियल  Stadium in  समय  for the  2010   cfl   ऋतु   .
The Edmonton  एस्किमोस  and  कैला  Stampeders also  संवर  their respective stadiums  और  facilities  लिये   the  2010 season .
In 2011  ,   the   bc  Lions  निभाई   अंतर्गत  a  नई   ,   retractable  roof in BC Place  बाद  spending  एक   और  a half  सीज़न  at Empire Field .
तब  the  विन्निपेग  Blue Bombers will play  in  an entirely new stadium at  the  University of  मनिटोबा   ,  scheduled  to  open in time  लिये  the  2013  season .
The Hamilton Tiger-Cats  ,  Saskatchewan Roughriders and the new Ottawa franchise are also  looking   at  new or extensively-renovated stadiums  in   the   following   सालो  .
वहीँ  are also hopes of expanding  the   लीग  to Atlantic  कनाडा   (   ideally  basing a team in either the  अधिक  populated Halifax  ,  or the more  centralized   moncton   )  , as  2010   और   2011  had  नियमित  season games  hosted  in  moncton   .
According to sports  इतिहासकार  Douglas Brei , the  कनाडाई  Football  लीग  holds  the  distinction  of   होने  the only  पेशेवर   खेल  league  in   उत्तर  America ,  प्रमुख  or minor league , in  जिससे  each existing franchise  रै  won  at   तनिक   एक  league title  जबकि   in  their current  स्थान  .
Each  एंटीबॉडी  binds to  a  specific  प्रतिजन  ; an  बातचीत  similar to a lock and key .
An  एंटीबॉडी  (  ab  ) , also known as an  immunoglobulin  ( Ig ) ,  is  a large Y-shaped protein  उत्पादित  by B-cells  कि   is   प्रयुक्त   by   the   प्रतिरक्षा  system to identify and  neutralize   विदेशी   वस्तुएँ   ऐसे  as bacteria and  वाइरस   .
the   एंटीबॉडी  recognizes  a  unique part of the  विदेशी  target  ,  called an antigen  .
प्रत्येक  tip  of   the   ``  Y '' of  an  antibody contains a  paratope   (  a  ढांचा   analogous  to a lock  )  that  is  specific for one  particular   epitope  (  similarly  analogous to a key ) on an antigen  ,  allowing  ये  two structures to  bind  together with precision .
Using this binding mechanism ,  an  antibody can tag a microbe or  an  infected  कोशिका   लिये  attack by other  भाग   of  the immune system , or can neutralize its  निशाना  directly (  लिये   उदाहरण  ,  by  blocking a  भाग  of a microbe  कि   is  essential for its  आक्रमण   और  survival  )   .
The  उत्पादन   of   antibodies   is  the main function of  the  humoral  प्रतिरक्षा  system .
antibodies   हैं   स्रावित   by  a  प्रकार  of white blood cell  पुकारा  a plasma cell  .
antibodies   can  occur  in   दो  physical forms , a soluble  रूप  that is secreted from the  कोशिका  , and  a   झिल्ली   -bound  form that is attached  to  the surface of  a  B cell  और   is  referred  to   as   the   b   कोशिका  receptor ( BCR ) .
The BCR is only found on the  सतह  of  b   कोशिकाएं   और   facilitates   the  activation of  ये   कोशिकाएं  and their  subsequent  differentiation  into   either   एंटीबॉडी   कारखानों   पुकारा   प्लाज्मा  cells  ,   or   मेमोरी  B cells  कि  will survive in the  देह   और   याद   कि  same  प्रतिजन  so the  b  cells  can  respond faster upon future exposure  .
in  most cases ,  बातचीत   of  the  b  cell  साथ  a  t  helper cell is  जरुरी  to produce full activation of the B  कोशिका  and , therefore  ,  antibody  पीढी  following  प्रतिजन  binding  .
Soluble  antibodies  are released  into   the  blood  और  tissue fluids  ,   as  well as  अनेक   secretions  to continue to survey  लिये  invading  microorganisms   .
Antibodies are glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the  शर्तें  antibody  और  immunoglobulin are  प्रायः  used interchangeably .
Antibodies are typically  बना  of  मौलिक   संरचनात्मक   units—each  with two large  भारी   जंजीरों   और   दो  small light chains  .
There are several different types of  एंटीबॉडी   भारी  chains ,  और  several  अलग  kinds of antibodies  ,  which  हैं   grouped  into different isotypes  आधारित  on which heavy  कड़ी  they possess  .
Five different antibody isotypes  हैं  known in mammals , which  perform   अलग  roles ,  और   सहायता   सीधा   the  appropriate  प्रतिरक्षा   जवाब   लिये  each  अलग  type  of  foreign  ऑब्जेक्ट  they encounter .
हालांकि   the   सामान्य   ढांचा  of all antibodies  is   बहुत   समान  , a small region  at  the  टिप  of the protein is extremely variable ,  allowing  millions of  antibodies   साथ   थोड़ा  different  टिप   structures  , or  प्रतिजन   बाइंडिंग   साइट   ,   to   मौजूद  .
This region is known  as  the hypervariable  प्रदेश  .
Each  of   ये   विसंगतियाँ   can   bind  to  a  different antigen  .
इस   विशाल  diversity  of   antibodies   allows  the immune system to recognize an equally  चौड़ी   किस्में  of antigens  .
The  विशाल  and diverse population of antibodies  is  generated  by  random combinations  of   a  set of gene  खण्ड   कि   encode   अलग  antigen binding sites (  or  paratopes  )  , followed by  यादृच्छिक  mutations  in  this area of the antibody gene , which create  further  diversity .
Antibody genes also  re-organize   in  a  प्रक्रम  called class switching that changes  the   आधार  of  the   भारी  chain  to  another  ,  creating  a  different isotype  of  the antibody that retains the antigen specific  परिवर्तनीय  region  .
This allows  a   सिंगल  antibody to be  प्रयुक्त   by   अनेक   अलग  parts  of  the  प्रतिरक्षा   प्रणाली  .
The symbol used  by   the  Zodiac  कातिल  to  चिह्न   उसके  correspondence
The Zodiac Killer was  a  serial killer who  संचालित   in  Northern California in the  लेट  1960s and early  1970s   .
The  कातिल  's identity remains  अनजान  .
the  Zodiac murdered victims in Benicia , Vallejo  ,   झील  Berryessa , and San Francisco  between  December 1968 and October 1969  .
Four  मेन  and  तीन   महिलाओं   between   the  ages of  16   और  29 were  targeted  .
The killer originated  the   नाम   ``  Zodiac '' in a  श्रेणी   of   taunting   अक्षर  sent to the  लोकल  Bay Area press  .
These  अक्षर  included four cryptograms ( or  ciphers   )   .
Of the four cryptograms sent  ,  only one  रै   महरूम  definitively solved .
Suspects  have   महरूम   नामित  by  विधि   प्रवर्तन  and amateur investigators , but  no   conclusive  evidence  रै  surfaced .
In April  2004   ,  the  सैन   फ्रांसिस्को  Police  विभाग  marked the case  ``   निष्क्रिय  '' , yet re-opened the case  at  some  पाइंट  prior to  कूच   2007  .
The case also remains  खोलें   in   the  city  of   vallejo   ,  as well as  in  Napa  काउंटी  and  solano  County .
the   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  Department  of   इंसाफ  has maintained an open case  संचिका  on  the  Zodiac  हत्याएं  since 1969  .
Jennings is  a  small city  in   और   the  parish seat of  जेफरसन  Davis  मोहल्ला  ,  louisiana   ,  United States ,  निकट  Lake Charles  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was  10,383  at  the  2010 census , a small  मनाही  from the 2000 tabulation  .
The  नगर  is 68 percent white  .
जेनिंग्स  is  the  principal  नगर   of  the Jennings Micropolitan Statistical Area  ,   जिससे   शामिल  all of Jefferson  डेविस  Parish .
it   is   भी  part of  the   larger  Lake  charles-jennings  Combined  सांख्यिकीय  Area  .
Nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened  to   ``  nanotech  ''  ) is the  हेरफेर  of matter  on   an   परमाणु  and  आणविक  scale .
the   earliest   ,  widespread  वर्णन   of  nanotechnology referred to  the   particular  technological goal  of   precisely   manipulating   अणु   और  molecules  लिये  fabrication of  macroscale  products , also  अभी  referred  to  as  आणविक   nanotechnology  .
A  अधिक   generalized  description of nanotechnology was subsequently  स्थापित  by  the  National Nanotechnology Initiative  ,   जिससे   defines   nanotechnology  as the manipulation  of   पदार्थ  with at least  एक  dimension  sized   इससे   1   to  100 nanometers .
This  परिभाषा  reflects the  फैक्ट  that  क्वांटम  mechanical effects  हैं   महत्वपूर्ण   at   इस   quantum-realm  scale , and so  the  definition shifted from  a   particular  technological goal  to   a  research  श्रेणी   समावेशी  of  सब  types of  शोध   और  technologies that deal with the special  गुण   of  matter that occur  नीचे  the given size  दहलीज   .
It is therefore common  to  see the plural  रूप  `` nanotechnologies '' as  खूब  as  ``   nanoscale  technologies  ''  to refer to the  व्यापक   दायरा   of  research and applications  जिनकी  common  trait   is  size .
क्युकी  of  the   किस्में   of   संभावित  applications  (  including  औद्योगिक   और  military ) ,  सरकारें  have invested  अरबों   of   डॉलर  in nanotechnology research  .
through  its National Nanotechnology  पहल  , the USA  रै  invested  3.7   अरब  dollars .
The  यूरोपीय  Union has  invested  1.2  अरब  and  जापानी  750  लाख  dollars .
Nanotechnology as defined  by   आकार   is  naturally very broad , including fields  of   विज्ञान   as   विविध   as   सतह  science  ,   सशुल्क  chemistry ,  आणविक  biology , semiconductor physics  ,   microfabrication   ,  etc  .
The associated research and applications  हैं  equally  विविध  , ranging from extensions  of   conventional  device physics  to  completely new approaches based  upon   आणविक   self-assembly   ,   इससे  developing new  सामग्री  with  आयाम   on   the   nanoscale   to  direct control of  पदार्थ   on  the atomic scale .
Scientists currently debate the  भविष्य  implications of nanotechnology .
nanotechnology  may be able  to   बनाएँ   अनेक  new  सामग्री   और  devices with a vast  दायरा  of  अनुप्रयोग  , such  as  in medicine  ,  electronics  ,   biomaterials   और  energy production .
on  the  अन्य  hand ,  nanotechnology   उठाता  many  of  the  वही   मुद्दे  as any new technology  ,   सहित   चिंताएं  about the  toxicity  and  पर्यावरणीय  impact  of   nanomaterials   ,   और   उनके   संभावित   प्रभाव   on  global  अर्थशास्त्र   ,   as  well  as   अटकलें  about various doomsday  scenarios   .
ये  concerns have  led   to  a debate  among   वकालत  groups  और  governments  on  whether special regulation of  nanotechnology  is  warranted  .
मैप  of the Eastern Bloc
the  term Eastern Bloc or Communist Bloc refers  to  the former communist  राज्य  of  सेंट्रल  and  पूर्वी  Europe ,  generally  the Soviet Union and the countries of  the   वॉरसॉ  Pact  .
The terms Communist  bloc  and Soviet Bloc were  भी   प्रयुक्त  to denote  groupings  of states  लकीर   साथ  the  सोवियत  Union , although  ये  terms  might  include states  बाहर  Central  और  Eastern  यूरोपीय   .
The  नई   जर्सी   gubernatorial   चुनाव  of 2009  took  place on  नवम्बर   3  , 2009 .
Democratic Governor Jon Corzine was running for a second term and  थी  being challenged by Republican Chris  क्रिस्टी   ,  Independent  क्रिस्टोफर   daggett  and nine others , in addition to several  write-in  candidates .
Christie won the election  ,  with about  48.5   प्रतिशत  of the vote , to 44.9  प्रतिशत   लिये   corzine  and 5.8  प्रतिशत   लिये  Daggett .
Christie won the largest margin  लिये   a   पहला  term Republican  चूंकि  1969 .
क्रिस्टी  assumed office  on  January 19  ,   2010  .
This  थी  the  पहला  election to fill the newly  निर्मित   दफ्तर   of   लेफ्टिनेंट   राज्यपाल  .
the  candidates for  राज्यपाल  and lieutenant governor were joined together as  a  single choice , so that voters  किया   नहीं  have the  अवसर   to   विभाजित  the  टिकट  .
Kim Guadagno ,  क्रिस्टी   's  running mate , became  नई  Jersey 's  पहला  lieutenant governor following her inauguration .
Health  परवाह  in  the  United States  is   provided  by many distinct  संगठन  .
Health  परवाह  facilities are  largely  owned  और  operated by private  सेक्टर   व्यवसायों   .
Health insurance for public  सेक्टर  employees is primarily provided by the government .
60-65  % of  healthcare  provision  और  spending  आता   इससे  programs  ऐसे  as Medicare  ,  Medicaid , TRICARE  ,  the Children  's   स्वास्थ्य  Insurance Program , and  the   दिग्गजों  Health  प्रशासन  .
Most of the  जनसांख्यिकी  under  65   is  insured  by   उनके  or  a   परिवार  member  's   नियोक्ता   ,  some buy  स्वास्थ्य  insurance on  उनके  own , and the remainder are  uninsured  .
Of  17  high-income countries studied by the National Institutes  of  Health in  2013  , the  संयुक्त  States was at  or  near the  नीचे  in infant  मृत्यु  ,  दिल  and lung disease  ,   sexually   transmitted   infections  ,  adolescent   pregnancies   ,  injuries , homicides , and  दरों  of  विकलांगता   .
Together  ,  such  मुद्दे  place the U.S.  at   the  bottom of  the  list  लिये  life expectancy .
on  average , a  u.S.  male  can   be   अपेक्षित  to live  लगभग  four fewer years than those  in  the top-ranked  देश   .
According to the  संसार  Health  संगठन  ( WHO  )   ,  the United States spent more on health care per  capita  (  $   7,146   )  , and more  on  health care as  प्रतिशत  of its  जीडीपी   (  15.2  %  ) , than any other nation  in   2008  .
The Commonwealth Fund ranked  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  last in  the  quality  of   स्वास्थ्य   परवाह  among  समान  countries  ,   और  notes  u.S.  care costs the  सबसे  .
the  U.S. Census  ब्यूरो  reported that  49.9   लाख  residents  ,   16.3  % of  the  population  ,   यहूद  uninsured in 2010 ( up  इससे  49.0 million residents  ,  16.1  %   of  the population ,  in  2009 )  .
A 2004 Institute of Medicine  (  IOM )  रपट  said :  ``   the   संयुक्त  States is among the few industrialized nations in the world that  करता   नहीं  guarantee  अभिगम  to  स्वास्थ्य   परवाह  for its population . ''
a   2004   oecd   रपट   कहा   :   ``  With  the  exception  of  Mexico , Turkey , and the  संयुक्त  States , all OECD countries had achieved  सार्वभौमिक  or near-universal  (  at least 98.4 %  insured  ) coverage of  उनके   populations  by 1990 .  ''
A 2010 report observed  कि  lack of health  बीमे  causes  roughly   48,000  unnecessary  मौतों   प्रत्येक  year in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
in   2007   ,  62.1 % of  filers  for bankruptcies  claimed  high medical expenses  .
a   2013  study  मिला  that about 25 %  of  all  वरिष्ठ  citizens declare  दिवालियापन  due to medical expenses  ,   और  43 % are  मजबूर  to mortgage  or  sell  उनके  primary residence .
on   कूच  23  ,   2010  , the Patient  सुरक्षा  and Affordable  परवाह   अधिनियम   (  PPACA  )  became law ,  providing   लिये   प्रमुख   परिवर्तन  in health  बीमे  .
In  physiology   ,   देह  water  is  the  जल   सामग्री   of  the human  देह   .
A significant  भिन्न  of the human  देह   is  water .
Arthur Guyton 's Textbook of Medical Physiology  राज्य  that  ``  the  कुल  amount  of  water in  a  man of  औसत  weight (  70  kilograms ) is approximately  40  litres  ,  averaging  57   प्रतिशत   of  his total body weight  .
In a  नवजात  infant  ,   इस  may  be  as high as  75  percent of  the  body weight  ,   लकिन  it progressively  decreases   इससे  birth  to  old age , most of the  घटी   occurring  during the first  10   सालो  of  जीवन  .
भी   ,  obesity  decreases  the  प्रतिशत   of   जल  in the body , sometimes  to  as  कम   as   45   प्रतिशत  '' .
These  आंकड़े  are statistical averages , so  हैं  illustrative  ,  and like  सब  biostatistics  ,  will  vary   साथ   बाते  like type  of  population  ,  age  और  number  of   लोगों  sampled  ,  and methodology  .
so  there is  नहीं  , and can  नहीं  be  ,  a figure  कि   is   exactly  the  वही  for all people , for this or  कोई  other physiological measure .
For example  ,   जैक्सन   's   (   1985  )  anatomy  & Physiology for Nurses  देता  a figure of 60 %  लिये   the  proportion of  body-weight  attributable to  जल   ,  which  approximates   guyton   's  57  %  .
in  diseased states where  देह   जल   is   प्रभावित  ,  the  compartment or compartments  कि   have   बदला  can  दे  clues to the nature of  the  problem .
Body  जल  is  regulated   by   हार्मोन   ,  including anti-diuretic hormone ( ADH )  ,   aldosterone   और   अलिंदी  natriuretic peptide  .
Per Netter 's Atlas of Human  physiology  ,  देह  water is  टूटा   bas   into  the  following   कम्पार्टमेंटs:
Intracellular fluid (  2/3   of  body  जल  )  .
Per  guyton   ,   in  a body containing  40  litres of  द्रव   ,   परिचय  25 litres  is  intracellular , which  amounts  to 62.5 % ( 5/8  )   ,  close enough  to   the   2/3  rule  of   अंगूठा   .
Jackson  's  texts states 70  %  of  देह   द्रव  is  intracellular  .
extracellular   द्रव  ( 1/3 of body water  )   .
Per  guyton  's illustration , for  a  40 litre  देह  ,  परिचय   15  litres is extracellular  ,  which amounts to  37.5  % Again  ,   इस   is  close  to  the 1/3  नियम  of thumb cited here .
Plasma  (  1/5  of  extracellular fluid  )  .
Per Guyton  's   उदाहरण  ,  of   the  15  लीटर  of extracellular  द्रव  ,  प्लाज्मा   आवाज़   averages   3  litres .
This amounts  to   20  % ,  the   वही   as  per Netter 's  एटलस   .
Interstitial fluid ( 4/5 of extracellular fluid  )
Transcellular  द्रव   (   a.k.a   .  ``  तीसरा  space ,  ''  normally ignored in calculations )
Contained inside organs , such as the  जठरांत्र   ,  cerebrospinal , peritoneal ,  और  ocular fluids .
self-esteem   is  a term used in  मनोविज्ञान   to   प्रतिबिंबित  a  व्यक्ति  's overall  emotional  evaluation of his or her own worth .
it   is   a  judgement  of   oneself  as  खूब  as an  रवैया   toward  the self  .
self-esteem  encompasses  मान्यताओं  (  लिये  example  ,   ``  I am competent  ,  '' `` I am  worthy   ''  ) and emotions  ऐसे  as triumph  ,   despair  , pride and  शर्म   .
Smith and Mackie define  it  by saying `` The self-concept  is   कया   we   सोचो   परिचय  the  स्वः  ; self-esteem ,  is  the positive or negative  evaluations  of the self ,  as  in how we feel about it .  ''
self-esteem   is  also known as the evaluative dimension of the self  कि   शामिल  feelings  of   worthiness  ,  prides   और  discouragement  .
One  's  self-esteem  is  also closely associated with self-consciousness  .
Self-esteem is  a  disposition  कि  a person  रै   जिससे   represents  their  निर्णयों  of  उनके  own worthiness  .
In  the  mid-1960s , Morris Rosenberg  और  social-learning  पैरोकार  defined  self-esteem   as   a  personal  लायक  or worthiness .
Nathaniel  branden   in   1969  defined  self-esteem  as  ``  the experience of  होने   competent   to  cope with  the   मौलिक   चुनौतियां  of  जीवन   और  being worthy  of   सुख  .  ''
According  to  Branden ,  self-esteem   is  the  योग   of  self-confidence ( a  अहसास  of  निजी   क्षमता  )  और  self-respect ( a  अहसास  of personal worth  )  .
it   exists  as  a  consequence of the implicit judgement  कि  every person has of their  क्षमता   to   फेस   जीवन   's  challenges , to understand and  solve  problems ,  और   उनके  right to  achieve  happiness  ,  and be given respect .
As a social psychological construct  ,  self-esteem  is   आकर्षक   क्युकी   शोधकर्ताओं  have conceptualized it  as  an influential predictor of  प्रासंगिक  outcomes  ,   ऐसे  as academic achievement  (  Marsh  1990   )   or   कसरत  behavior ( Hagger  et   al  .  1998   )  .
in   जोड   ,  self-esteem has  भी   महरूम   treated  as  an   महत्वपूर्ण   निष्कर्ष  due to its  बंद  relation  साथ   मनोवैज्ञानिक   well-being  (  दलदल  1989 ) .
self-esteem   can  apply specifically to a particular  आयाम   (   लिये   उदाहरण  , `` I  मानना  I  am  a good writer and I  महसूस   प्रसन्न   परिचय  that  ''   )  or  a   वैश्विक   extent   (  for example , ``  i  believe I am a bad person  ,  and feel  ख़राब  about myself in general ''  )  .
Psychologists usually regard self-esteem as an enduring  व्यक्तित्व  characteristic ( ``  trait  ''  self-esteem  ) , though  सामान्य  ,  short-term   विसंगतियाँ  ( ``  राज्य  '' self-esteem ) also exist .
समानार्थी  or near-synonyms  of   self-esteem  include  :   self-worth  , self-regard  ,  self-respect , and self-integrity .
a   masonic  Lodge  ,   प्रायः   termed   a  Private Lodge or  constituent   आवास   ,  is the basic  organisational  unit  of   freemasonry   .
Every  नई  Lodge  जरूर  be warranted  or   चार्टर्ड  by a  ग्रैंड  Lodge ,  लकिन  is subject  to  its  दिशा  only in enforcing the  प्रकाशित  Constitution  of  the  क्षेत्राधिकार  .
by  exception the  तीन  surviving  lodges  that formed the  संसार  's  पहला   ज्ञात  Grand Lodge in  लंदन  (  आज  called  the  United  ग्रैंड   आवास   of   इंग्लैण्ड   )   have   the  unique  विशेषाधिकार  to  operate   as  time immemorial  i.e  . without such warrant  ;  only  एक  other lodge  operates  without a  वारंट  - this  is  the Grand Stewards ' Lodge in London  ,  although it is not also entitled to the ``  समय  immemorial '' title .
a   freemason  is  generally   हकदार  to visit any Lodge ,  in  any  क्षेत्राधिकार   (  i.e  .   अंतर्गत  any  ग्रैंड  Lodge ) in amity with his  अपना   .
In  कुछ   jurisdictions   इस  privilege  is   प्रतिबंधित  to Master  masons   (   कि  is ,  freemasons   जो  have  attained  the Order 's third degree  )   .
He  is   पहला  usually required to check  ,  and  certify   ,  the regularity of the relationship  of   the  Lodge -  और   be   समर्थ  to  satisfy   कि  Lodge  of  his regularity  of   सदस्यता   .
Freemasons  एकत्रित   साथ  as a Lodge to work  the  three  मौलिक  Degrees  of  Entered  प्रशिक्षु  , Fellowcraft  और  Master Mason .
pilkington   समूह  Limited is  a  multinational glass  निर्माण   कम्पनी  headquartered  in  St  हेलेन्स   ,  United Kingdom and a wholly owned subsidiary of the  japan-based   एनएसजी  Group .
prior  to its acquisition by NSG in  2006   it  was  an  independent company listed  on   the  London  भण्डार  Exchange and for  a   समय  was a constituent  of  the  ftse   100   अनुक्रमणिका   .
A quotation is  the   repetition   of  one expression as  भाग   of   another   एक  , particularly when the  कोटेड   अभिव्यक्ति   is  well-known or  explicitly   attributed  by citation to  इसके  original  सोर्स  , and  it  is indicated by  (  punctuated  साथ   )   quotation  marks .
a  quotation  can   भी  refer  to  the repeated use  of  units  of  any other  रूप  of  अभिव्यक्ति  , especially parts of artistic works :  तत्व  of  a  painting  ,   दृश्यों  from  a  movie or sections from  a  musical composition  .
साल  1877  (  MDCCCLXXVII  )   थी  a  आम  year starting  on  Monday  (  link  होगा  display  the   पूरा   पंचांग  ) of the Gregorian calendar  और  a  आम  year starting  on  Saturday  of  the  12-day  slower  जूलियन   पंचांग   .
ब्लैक   pepper   (   पाइपर   nigrum  ) is  a  flowering  बेल  in the  परिवार   piperaceae   ,   cultivated  for its fruit ,  जिससे  is usually dried  और  used as a spice and seasoning .
the  fruit ,  ज्ञात  as a  peppercorn  when  सूखी   ,  is approximately  in  diameter ,  अंधेरा   रेड  when fully mature ,  और   ,  like all drupes , contains a single seed .
Peppercorns  ,  and  the   मैदान   pepper  derived from them ,  may  be described  बस   as  pepper ,  or   अधिक  precisely as black pepper  (   पकाया  and dried unripe fruit )  ,  green pepper  (  dried unripe  फल  ) and white pepper  (   सूखी  ripe  बीज  )  .
ब्लैक   pepper  is native to south India , and is extensively cultivated there  और   elsewhere  in tropical regions .
फिलहाल  Vietnam is the world 's  largest  producer and  निर्यातक  of  pepper  ,  producing  34 %  of  the world 's Piper  nigrum  crop as of 2008  .
Dried ground pepper  रै   महरूम   प्रयुक्त   चूंकि  antiquity for both its flavour and  as   a   आयुर्विज्ञान  .
Black  pepper   is  the world 's most traded spice .
It  is  one  of   the  most common spices  added   to   यूरोपीय  cuisine  और  its descendants .
The  spiciness   of  black pepper is  due   to   the  chemical  piperine   ,   नहीं  to  be   उलझन   साथ   the  capsaicin  कि  gives fleshy peppers  theirs  .
It is in  the   आधुनिक   संसार  , often paired with  नमक  .
Fire hydrant in Charlottesville  ,  Virginia ,  यूएसए
A fire  hydrant  ( also  ज्ञात  colloquially as a fire plug in the United States or as a  जॉनी   पंप  in New York  नगर   )  ,  is   an   क्रियाशील  fire protection measure ,  और   a  source  of   जल  provided  in   सबसे   शहरी   ,  suburban  और   ग्रामीण  areas  साथ  municipal  जल   सेवा  to  enable  firefighters to  tap  into  the  municipal water  सप्लाई  to  assist  in extinguishing  a  fire .
Buildings  निकट   a   hydrant   may  qualify  लिये   an   बीमे   छूट  since firefighters should be able to more  rapidly   बुझा  a fire on the insured  प्रॉपर्टी  .
the   अवधारणा  of fire plugs dates to at least  the  17th  सदी  .
इस  was  a  time when  अग्निशमन  responding to a  कॉल  would dig  bas  to the wooden  जल  mains  और   hastily   bore  a hole to secure water to fight  फ़ायर   .
The water  होता   भरण  the  छेद   बनाना  a  अस्थाई  well  ,  and be  transported   इससे  the  खूब  to the fire  by   बाल्टी  brigades  or  , later  ,  by  hand-pumped   आग  engines .
the   छेद  were then  plugged  with  stoppers  ,  सामान्यतः  redwood , which over time came to  be   ज्ञात   as  fire  plugs   .
The location of the plug  होता   प्रायः  be recorded or  चिह्नित  so that it could  be  reused  in  future  फ़ायर   .
इस   is  the source of the  colloquial  term fire plug still  प्रयुक्त  for  आग   hydrants  today .
After  the  Great Fire  of  London in  1666  ,  the  city  संस्थापित  water  मेन्स  with  छेद  drilled at  intervals   ,  equipped with  उठते  , allowing  an   अभिगम   पाइंट   to   the   लकड़ी  fire  plugs  from street  स्तर  .
The  आविष्कार  of  a  post- or pillar-type fire hydrant  is   generally   credited  to Frederick  graff   sr.  , Chief  इंजीनियर   of   the  Philadelphia Water Works around the year  1801  .
It had  a   संयोजन   hose/faucet  outlet and  थी   of  `` wet  बैरल  ''  डिज़ाइन  with  the  valve in the top .
it  is  कहा  that  graff   आयोजित  the  पहला  patent for a  आग  hydrant  ,   लकिन   इस  can not  be  verified because  the   पेटेंट   दफ्तर  in Washington  d.C.  caught on  आग  in 1836 destroying  अनेक   पेटेंट  records  इससे   कि  period in the process .
The President of the  गणतंत्र   of  South Africa is the head  of   राज्य  and  सिर  of government under South Africa 's  संविधान  .
इससे   1961  to 1994 ,  the   सिर  of  राज्य  was  पुकारा   the  State President .
The President is elected  by  members of  the  National  सभा   ,  the lower  हाउस  of  पार्लियामेंट  , and is usually  the  leader of  the  largest  पार्टी  , which has  महरूम   the   अफ़्रीकी  National Congress since the first non-racial elections were held  on  27  अप्रैल  1994 .
The role was originally founded to be distinct  इससे  the now  defunct  role of prime minister , but the two roles  यहूद  merged in the 1983 constitution  जिससे  specified  a  four-year  पद  of  दफ्तर  .
The  1993  and  बाद  constitutions limits the  अध्यक्ष  's time in office to two  five-year   शर्तें  .
The first President to be elected  अंतर्गत  the new constitution was Nelson  मंडेला  , and the incumbent  अध्यक्ष   is  Jacob Zuma .
Under the interim  संविधान  (  मान्य   इससे  1994 to 1996 )  ,  there was  a  Government  of   नेशनल   एकता  ,  in   जिससे   an   mp   इससे  the largest  विपक्ष   पार्टी  was entitled to a position  as   डिप्टी   अध्यक्ष  .
साथ   साथ   thabo   mbeki   ,   the   पिछला   राज्य   अध्यक्ष  , F.W .  de  Klerk also served as Deputy  अध्यक्ष  ,  in   उसके  capacity  as   the  leader of the  नेशनल  Party which  थी  the second-largest  पार्टी  in the  नई  Parliament  .
But  de  Klerk  बाद  resigned  और  went into opposition with  उसके   पार्टी   .
a   voluntary   गठबन्धन   सरकारी  continues  to  exist under the new  संविधान  ( adopted  in  1996  )  , although there have been no  नियुक्ति   of  opposition politicians  to  the post  of  deputy  अध्यक्ष  .
Special education or special  needs   शिक्षा   is  the education of  विद्यार्थी  with special  needs  in a way  कि   पता  the students  '  individual differences and  needs   .
Ideally , this process  involves  the  individually  planned  और   systematically   monitored   व्यवस्था   of  teaching  प्रक्रियाओं  ,  adapted   उपकरण  and  सामग्री  , accessible settings  ,  and other interventions designed to help  learners  with special needs achieve  a  higher  स्तर  of  निजी  self-sufficiency  और  success in  स्कूल   और   जातियाँ  than would be  उपलब्धियाँ  if  the  student  यहूद  only given  अभिगम  to a typical  कक्षा  education .
आम   खास   needs   शामिल   चुनौतियां  with learning  ,  communication challenges  ,   emotional  and behavioral disorders , physical disabilities , and  developmental  disorders .
विद्यार्थी   साथ  these kinds  of  special  needs   हैं   संभावित   to  benefit from additional educational  सेवाएं   ऐसे   as   अलग  approaches to teaching ,  उपयोग   of  technology , a  specifically  adapted teaching  क्षेत्रफल  , or  संसाधन   रूम   .
बौद्धिक  giftedness  is  a  अंतर  in learning  और   can  also benefit  इससे  specialized  शिक्षण   तकनीकों  or  अलग  educational programs ,  लकिन   the  term `` special education  ''  is generally  प्रयुक्त   to  specifically indicate instruction of students  जिनकी   खास  needs  reduce   उनके   क्षमता  to  सीख   independently  or in  an  ordinary  कक्षा  , and  gifted   शिक्षा   is   संभाला  separately  .
In most  विकसित  countries ,  शिक्षक  are modifying teaching  विधि   और  environments so  कि  the maximum  क्रमांक  of  विद्यार्थी  are served  in   सामान्य   शिक्षा   environments   .
Special  शिक्षा  in developed countries is often regarded  कम   as   a   ``   प्लेस  ''  और   अधिक   as   ``  a  दायरा  of services ,  उपलब्धियाँ   in  every school . ''
संयोजन  can reduce social stigmas  और   improve   अकादमिक  achievement for  अनेक  students .
the   विपरीत   of  special education  is  general education .
General education is  the  standard curriculum presented with standard teaching methods and without additional supports .
जार्ज  Soros  (  or ;  ;  ; born August 12 , 1930  ,   as  Schwartz  györgy  )  is   a   hungarian-american   कारोबार   महारथी  , investor , and philanthropist .
He is  the  chairman of Soros  निधि  Management .
Soros supports progressive-liberal causes .
He  is  known as ``  the   man   जो  Broke the  बैंको   of  England ``  क्युकी  of his in  निवेश   profits  during  the   1992   ब्लैक  Wednesday  uk  currency crisis .
Between  1979  and 2011 , Soros  दिया  away over  $   8   अरब  to human rights , public health  ,   और   शिक्षा  causes .
He  निभाई  a  significant   भूमिका   in  the peaceful  परिवर्तन   इससे   साम्यवादी  to capitalism in Hungary ( 1984–89  )   और  provided  एक  of Europe  's  largest  उच्चतर  education endowments to Central  यूरोपीय  University in  बुडापेस्ट   .
Soros is  भी  the  अध्यक्ष  of the Open Society Institute .
An  कर्ता   portraying  Alexander  ग्राहम  Bell  बोलना  into an  जल्दी  model telephone  .
The invention of  the   टेलीफोन   is   the  culmination  of   कार्य   किया  by many individuals  ,  the history of which involves a  संग्रहण  of claims and counterclaims  .
the  development of  the  modern electrical  टेलीफोन   शामिल  an array of lawsuits  संस्थापित  upon  the   पेटेंट   दावा  of  अनेक  individuals and numerous companies  .
इस   आलेख   कवर   the  early years from  1844   to   1898   ,  from conception  of   the   विचार  of  an  electric voice-transmission device , to  विफल   कोशिशें  to use ``  make-and-break   ''  current ,  to  successful  प्रयोग   साथ  electromagnetic telephones by Alexander  ग्राहम   घंटी  and Thomas Watson , and finally  to  commercially successful  telephones  in the  लेट  19th century  .
A Master of Fine Arts ( MFA , M.F.A . ) is a graduate degree typically  requiring   2–3   सालो   of   postgraduate  study beyond the bachelor  's  degree ( BFA )  ,  although the term  of   पढ़ाई   होगा  vary by country  or  by university  .
the  MFA is a  रचनात्मक   उपाधि   प्रायः   awarded  as a terminal  उपाधि   in  visual arts  ,   रचनात्मक   लिखने   ,  filmmaking ,  नृत्य  ,  or  theatre and other performing  कला  .
Coursework  is   primarily  of an applied or  performing  nature with  the  program  प्रायः   culminating  in a major work or performance  .
Master of Fine  कला   कार्यक्रम   have  generally required  a  bachelor  's  degree prior to  प्रवेश  , but  अनेक   do  not require that the  undergraduate  major  be  the same as the  mfa   फ़ील्ड  of study  .
the  most important  admissions  requirement has often  महरूम   a  sample portfolio  or   a  performance audition .
The Master of  ठीक   कला   differs  from the  निपुण   of  Arts  in  that the MFA ,  जबकि  an  अकादमिक  program  ,  centers around  अभ्यास  in the  particular  field ,  whereas  programs leading  to  the  ma   प्रायः  center  on  the scholarly  ,  academic  ,  or critical study  of   the  field  .
additionally   ,   in   the  United  राज्य   ,  an MFA  is  recognized  as  a terminal degree for practitioners  of   विज़ुअल   आर्ट  ,  डिज़ाइन   ,   नृत्य   ,  Theatre , Film/Video  ,   नई   मीडिया  , and  रचनात्मक  Writing  -   अर्थ   कि  it  is  considered to  be   the  highest degree  in  its field  ,   और  is used as  a   न्यूनतम  qualification  to  be  समर्थ   to  apply to become a  full-time  Professor teaching at the University  स्तर  in  ये   disciplines  .
वहीँ  are  अपवाद  to  इस   मानक   in   the  Arts  ,   notably   in  the case of  म्यूज़िक  performance  ,  where  the   mfa  is not seen as a terminal degree  in  the  कॉन्टेक्स्ट  of the  अधिक   मानकीकृत  DMA degree  .
it  is also  नाजुक   to   नोट  that in the  ब्याज  of extending the  कनेक्शन   between   रचनात्मक  production and continued academic  शोध  ,  कुछ  universities  have   स्थापित  practice-based Ph.D programs  in   फ़ील्ड   ऐसे  as creative  लिखने   ,   विज़ुअल  arts  ,   नई  media , design and theater  .
While  इस   रै   था   an   प्रभाव   in  Creative Writing  ,  and to  a  lesser extent  in  design and  नई  media , the  influx   of   graduates  from practice-based PhD  कार्यक्रम   रै   नहीं  appreciably changed  the  standard  लिये   the  MFA as the terminal degree in most  कला   disciplines  yet  .
This is an ongoing contentious topic  ,  and is  the  frequent subject  of  academic panels  ,  especially at the annual  कॉलेज   आर्ट   संघ   सम्मेलन  .
the  CAA 2008 guidelines  regarding  the  mfa  strongly  re-affirms  that  the  PhD is  नहीं   जरूरी   as  a terminal  उपाधि   in   the  visual arts .
the  atomic  bombings  of the cities  of  Hiroshima  और  Nagasaki in Japan  यहूद   conducted   by  the United States during  the  final stages of World  युद्ध   ii  in 1945 .
The  दो  events are the  तभी  use of nuclear  हथियार   in  war  to  date  .
Following  a   firebombing  campaign  कि   नष्ट  many Japanese cities  ,   the   allies   prepared  for a costly invasion  of  Japan  .
The war in Europe  ended  when  नाजी  Germany signed its instrument of surrender  on  8 May , but  the  Pacific War  जारी   .
Together  साथ   the  United Kingdom and  the  Republic of China  ,  the  संयुक्त  States called for a  आत्मसमर्पण  of  जापानी   in   the  Potsdam  घोषणा  on  26   जुलाई  1945  ,   threatening  Japan with  ``  prompt and utter destruction '' .
The  जापानी  government ignored this  ultimatum  ,  और  the United  राज्य   तैनात  two nuclear  हथियार  developed by the Manhattan  प्रोजेक्ट  .
American airmen dropped  छोटी   लड़के  on  the  city  of  Hiroshima on 6 August  1945   ,   followed  by Fat  man  over Nagasaki  on   9  August .
भीतर   the  first two to  चार   महीने  of the bombings , the acute effects killed 90,000–166,000  लोगों   in  Hiroshima  और  60,000–80,000 in  नागासाकी   ,  with roughly  हाफ   of  the  मौतों  in  प्रत्येक   नगर  occurring  on  the  पहला  day .
The  हिरोशिमा  prefecture  स्वास्थ्य   विभाग   अनुमानित  that , of  the  people  जो  died  on  the  दिन  of the explosion , 60 %  died   इससे   फ्लैश   or  flame  burns  , 30  %   इससे  falling debris and 10 %  इससे  other  कल्याणकारी  .
दौरान   the  following months ,  विशाल  numbers  died  from the  प्रभाव  of burns , radiation sickness ,  और  other  चोटों   ,   compounded   by   बीमारी  .
in  a US estimate of  the  total immediate  और  short  पद   कारण   of  death ,  15–20   %   died  from radiation  बीमारी  , 20–30 %  इससे  burns  ,  and 50–60  %  from  अन्य   चोटों  , compounded by illness .
In  दोनो  cities  ,  most  of   the   मुर्दे   यहूद  civilians , although  हिरोशिमा  had a sizeable  गैरीसन   .
On  15   अगस्त  ,  छह  days after the  bombing  of Nagasaki , Japan  घोषित   इसके  surrender  to   the   allies   ,  signing the  यंत्र   of  Surrender  on   2   सितंबर   ,  officially ending World War II .
the  bombings  led  , in part  ,  to post-war Japan  's   adopting   तीन  Non-Nuclear Principles , forbidding  the   स्वदेश  from nuclear armament  .
The role of the  bombings  in  जापानी  's surrender and their  नैतिक   औचित्य   हैं   स्टिल   debated  .
मोहनदास  Karamchand Gandhi  (  ; 2  अक्तूबर  1869  –  30  जनवरी  1948  )  , commonly known as Mahatma Gandhi , was  the  preeminent  नेता   of  Indian nationalism in  british-ruled   इण्डिया  .
employing  non-violent  सिविल  disobedience , Gandhi  led   इण्डिया  to independence  और  inspired movements for non-violence , civil rights  और   स्वतंत्रता   आरपार   the  world  .
The son of a  वरिष्ठ   सरकारी  official , Gandhi was  born   और  raised  in  a Hindu Bania community in  तटीय  Gujarat , and  प्रशिक्षित   in  law in London .
गांधी   became  famous  by   लड़   लिये   the   सिविल  rights of  मुस्लिम   और  Hindu  इंडियंस  in  दक्षिण   अफ़्रीकी  , using new  तकनीकों  of non-violent civil  disobedience   कि  he developed .
returning  to  इण्डिया  in  1915   ,   he   नियत  about organising peasants to protest excessive  land-taxes  .
A  lifelong  opponent of ``  सांप्रदायिकता  `` ( i.e .  basing  politics  on   धर्म  ) he reached  आउट  widely to all religious groups  .
he  became  a  leader  of  Muslims  protesting   the  declining status of the  खिलाफत  .
Assuming  नेतृत्व  of the  भारतीय  National Congress in 1921  ,  Gandhi led  देशभर  campaigns for easing  गरीबी   ,  expanding women 's  अधिकारों   ,  building religious and ethnic amity  ,   समाप्ति  untouchability  ,   increasing   आर्थिक  self-reliance , and  ऊपर  all  लिये  achieving Swaraj —the  स्वतंत्रता  of India from British  हुकूमत   .
गांधी   led  Indians in protesting  the  national salt  कर   साथ   the  Dandi Salt March in 1930  ,   और  later  in  demanding the British  to   तत्काल   छोड़ो  India in  1942  ,  दौरान   संसार   युद्ध   ii  .
He  थी   imprisoned  for that  और   लिये  numerous other political offenses over  the  years  .
गांधी   sought  to practice  non-violence   और  truth  in  all  परिस्थितियों  ,  और  advocated that  अन्य  do the same  .
he  saw  the  villages  as  the  कोर   of   the   सच्चा  India  और  promoted self-sufficiency  ;  he did  नहीं  support the  industrialization  programs  of  his disciple  जवाहरलाल   नेहरू   .
He  जिया  modestly in  a  self-sufficient  आवासीय   जातियाँ  and  पहना  the traditional Indian  धोती  and  चादर  , woven with yarn  he  had  हाथ  spun on a  charkha  .
उसके   मुख्य  political enemy  in   ब्रिटेन  was Winston Churchill  ,  who ridiculed him  as  a ``  half-naked  fakir  .   ''
He  थी   a   समर्पित   शाकाहारी  , and undertook  long  fasts as means of both  self-purification  and  राजनैतिक  mobilization  .
In  उसके  last year  ,  unhappy at  the  partition  of  India  ,   गांधी   worked  to  रोकें  the  carnage   between  Muslims , Hindus and Sikhs  कि   raged   in   the   किनारा  area between India and Pakistan .
he  was  assassinated   on  30 January  1948  by Nathuram Godse  जो  thought Gandhi was  too   सहानुभूतिपूर्ण   to   इण्डिया   's  Muslims .
30  जनवरी  is observed as Martyrs  '  Day  in  India  .
The  honorific   महात्मा  ( `` Great  आत्मा   ''  )  थी  applied to  उसे  by 1914  .
in  India he  थी  also  पुकारा  Bapu  (  `` Father '' )  .
He  is  known  in   इण्डिया  as the Father  of  the  स्वदेश  ;  उसके   जन्मदिवस  ,  2  October  ,   is  commemorated there as  गांधी  Jayanti , a national holiday ,  और   world-wide  as the International Day of  non-violence   .
Gandhi  's  philosophy  थी   नहीं  theoretical  लकिन  one of pragmatism , that is , practicing his principles in  the   पल   .
पूछा  to give a message to the people  ,  he would respond  ,   ``  My life is my  संदेश   .   ''
जोन  Crawford  (  March  23   ,  ca  .  1904 –  may   10  , 1977  )  , born Lucille Fay  lesueur   ,   थी  an  अमरीकी  actress  in   फिल्मी   ,  television and theatre  .
Starting  as  a dancer in traveling theatrical companies  पहले   debuting   on   ब्रॉडवे  ,  क्रॉफर्ड  was  हस्ताक्षरित   to  a  गति  picture contract  by   metro-goldwyn-mayer   in  1925 .
initially  frustrated  by  the  आकार  and  विशेषता  of her parts  ,  Crawford began a campaign  of   self-publicity  and became nationally  ज्ञात   as   a  flapper by the  समाप्त  of the 1920s .
In the 1930s ,  क्रॉफर्ड  's  कीर्ति  rivaled , and later  outlasted  ,  mgm  colleagues Norma  शियर्र   और   greta   garbo  .
Crawford often played  मेहनती   यंग   महिलाओं   जो  find  रोमांस   और   वित्तीय   कामयाबी   .
These `` rags-to-riches '' stories were  खूब  received by Depression  -era   ऑडियंस   और   यहूद  popular with women  .
Crawford  became   एक  of  हॉलीवुड  's  सबसे  prominent  फिल्म  stars and  एक   of  the  उच्चतम  paid  महिलाओं  in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  , but her  films   began   खोने  money  और   by   the  end of  the   1930s   वो  was labeled `` box office  ज़हर   ''   .
After an absence of nearly  दो   सालो   इससे   the  screen  ,  Crawford  मंचन   a   वापसी  by starring in Mildred  पियर्स  (  1945  ) ,  लिये   जिससे   वो  won the Academy  पुरस्कार   लिये  Best Actress .
in   1955   ,  she became  शामिल  with  the  Pepsi-Cola Company through  उसके  marriage to company  अध्यक्ष   अल्फ्रेड   स्टील   .
After  उसके  death in  1959   ,  Crawford was  निर्वाचित  to fill his vacancy  on   the  board of  निर्देशकों   लकिन   थी   forcibly  retired in 1973 .
She  जारी   एक्टिंग   in   फिल्मी   और  television regularly through the 1960s  ,   जब   उसके  performances  became  fewer ; after  the  release of  the   अंग्रेजों  horror  फिल्मी   trog  in 1970 , Crawford retired from the  स्क्रीन  .
following  a public appearance  in  1974  ,   बाद  which  unflattering  photographs were  प्रकाशित   ,  Crawford withdrew  इससे  public life  और   became  increasingly reclusive until her  मौत  in  1977  .
क्रॉफर्ड   शादीशुदा  four  टाइम्स   .
उसके   पहला  three marriages ended in divorce ; the last  ended  with the death  of   husband   अल्फ्रेड   स्टील   .
She adopted  पाँच   children   ,   एक   of   जिसको  was  reclaimed  by his birth  माँ  .
क्रॉफर्ड  's  संबंध   साथ  her  दो   पुरानी   children  , Christina and  क्रिस्टोफर  ,  यहूद   acrimonious   .
Crawford disinherited the  दो  and  ,  after  क्रॉफर्ड   's  death ,  क्रिस्टीना   लिखा  a  ``  tell-all ''  संस्मरण  , Mommie  dearest  , in which  वो   कथित  a lifelong  पैटर्न  of  शारीरिक   और   emotional   गाली  perpetrated  by  Crawford .
She was voted the tenth greatest  मादा  star  in   the   इतिहास  of  अमरीकी   सिनेमा   by   the  American Film  संस्थान   .
1910  बुइक   tonneau  without tonneau  कवर
1903  Ford  मॉडल   a   rear-door  Tonneau
1903  Lanchester rear-door Tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or  )  describes  a  hard or soft  कवर  used to protect unoccupied passenger  सीटे   in   a  convertible  or  roadster , or the  कार्गो   bed  in a  पिकअप  truck .
मुश्किल  tonneau covers  खोलें  by a hinging  or   फोल्डिंग  mechanism while soft covers  खोलें   by   रोलिंग   up   .
The tonneau  कवर   is  used to  छिपाते   कार्गो  .
When the  कवर   is  pulled out ,  it  keeps  वस्तुएं  out of  the  sun and provides extra  सुरक्षा  by keeping  निजी   वस्तुएं  out of sight  ,  as well as  shielding  the driver from view .
ट्विटर  is an online social networking  सेवा   और  microblogging service that  enables  its  उपयोक्ता  to send and read  text-based   संदेश  of  up   to  140  वर्ण  ,  ज्ञात   as   ``   tweets   ''  .
Twitter was created in  कूच  2006  by  Jack  dorsey  and  by  July  ,   the  social networking site was launched .
the  service rapidly  gained  worldwide  लोकप्रियता  , with over 500  लाख   पंजीकृत  users  as   of  2012 ,  generating  over  340   लाख  tweets daily and  हैंडलिंग  over  1.6   अरब  search queries per  दिन  .
चूंकि   इसके  launch , Twitter  रै  become  एक  of the ten most  visited  websites  on  the  अंतरजाल   ,  and has been described  as   ``   the  SMS of the Internet  .   ''
Unregistered  उपयोक्ता  can read tweets ,  जबकि  registered users  can   पोस्ट  tweets through  the  website interface  ,   sms  , or  a  range of  ऐप्स  for mobile devices  .
ट्विटर  Inc.  is   आधारित  in  सैन  Francisco , with  अतिरिक्त  servers and  कार्यालयों  in  नई  York  नगर  ,  बोस्टन   ,   और   सैन   अंतोनियो   .
the   hangover  is  a  2009  अमरीकी   कॉमेडी  film , co-produced  और  directed by Todd Phillips  और  written  by  Jon Lucas and  स्कॉट  Moore .
it  is the first film  of  The Hangover franchise .The  फिल्मी   सितारों  Bradley Cooper , Ed Helms , Zach  galifianakis  , Heather  ग्राहम  ,  जस्टिन  Bartha ,  और   जेफरी  Tambor .
The Hangover  tells  the  स्टोरी  of Phil Wenneck , Stu  दाम   और  Alan  गार्नर  , who  सफर   to   लास  Vegas  लिये  a  स्नातक   पार्टी   to  celebrate their  dost   डग  Billings  '  impending marriage .
However , Phil ,  stu  and  एलन  have no memory  of  the previous  रात्रि   's   कार्यक्रम  and must find Doug  पहले   the   विवाह   can  take place  .
लुकास  and Moore wrote  the  script after executive producer  क्रिस  Bender 's friend  disappeared   और   था   a   विशाल  bill  बाद   होने  sent to  a  strip club  .
After  लुकास  and Moore  बेची  it to  the   स्टुडियो  for $  2   लाख  , Philips and Jeremy Garelick  rewrote  the  स्क्रिप्ट   to  include a tiger  as  well as  a   subplot  involving  a  baby and a police  क्रूजर  ,  और   भी  including  boxer  Mike Tyson  .
Filming  took   प्लेस  in Nevada  लिये   15  days ,  और   दौरान  filming  ,  the three  प्रमुख   अभिनेताओं   (   कूपर  , Helms and Galifianakis )  formed  a friendship .
The Hangover was released on  जून  5 , 2009 , becoming  a  critical and  वाणिज्यिक  success  .
it  became  the  tenth-highest-grossing film  of   2009  ,  साथ  a  विश्वव्यापी  gross  of  over  us  $ 467 million .
Critics praised  the   फिल्मी   's  comedic approach but criticized it  लिये   इसके   vulgarity   .
the  film won  the  Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Musical or  कॉमेडी   ,   और  received multiple  अन्य  accolades .
it  is the tenth-highest-grossing  फिल्मी  of 2009 in the  संसार  , as  खूब   as  the  दूसरी  highest-grossing R-rated  कॉमेडी  ever  in  the  संयुक्त  States  ,  surpassing a record previously  आयोजित  by  बेवर्ली  Hills  cop  for  लगभग  25  सालो  and later being  surpassed   by  Ted in  2012   .
आउट   of  all R-rated films , it  is  the  तीसरा   highest-grossing   कभी  in the  u.S.  , behind only  the   जुनून  of the Christ and  the   मेट्रिक्स   reloaded  .
A  sequel  ,  the  Hangover Part II , was released in  2011   ,  and a third  और  final film  ,  The Hangover Part III  ,  is set for  रिलीज   in  2013 .
Events involving meiosis , showing chromosomal  क्रॉसओवर
Meiosis ( ) is a special type of cell  प्रभाग  necessary  लिये   यौन  reproduction in eukaryotes .
the  cells produced  by  meiosis are gametes  or  spores .
In many  जीवों  , including  सब  animals and land  पौधे  ( but  नहीं   कुछ   अन्य   समूह   ऐसे  as  fungi   )  , gametes are called  शुक्राणु   और  egg  कोशिकाएं   .
whilst  the  प्रक्रम  of  meiosis  bears a  क्रमांक  of  similarities   साथ  the 'life-cycle ' cell  प्रभाग  process  of  mitosis  ,  it differs in  दो   महत्वपूर्ण   आदरs:
the  गुणसूत्रों   in   meiosis   undergo  a recombination which shuffles  the  genes producing a different genetic combination  in  each gamete , compared  साथ  the  co-existence  of  प्रत्येक   of  the  दो  separate pairs  of  each  chromosome  ( one received from  प्रत्येक   जनक  ) in  प्रत्येक  cell which  परिणाम  from  समसूत्रण   .
the  निष्कर्ष   of   meiosis  is potentially four (  genetically   अद्वितीय  )  अगुणित  cells , compared with the  दो  ( genetically identical ) diploid cells produced from mitosis .
Meiosis begins with  एक   द्विगुणित   कोशिका  containing two copies  of   प्रत्येक  chromosome —one from the  सजीव  's  माँ  and one from its  पिता   .
The  कोशिका  divides twice  ,  potentially producing up  to  four haploid  कोशिकाएं  containing one copy of each chromosome  .
( ``  potentially  '' because  in  some  मामले  ,  ऐसे   as  the formation of oocytes  in  mammals ,  तभी   एक  of  the  possible  चार  haploid cells  survives   .  )
In animals the haploid  कोशिका  resulting  इससे   meiosis   is  a male  or   मादा   gamete  .
Each of  the  resulting  गुणसूत्रों  in  the  gamete cells  is  a unique mixture  of   मातृ  and paternal  डीएनए  , resulting  in   औलाद   कि   हैं   genetically   पृथक  from either  जनक  .
This  देता  rise to genetic  विविधता  in sexually reproducing populations  .
This genetic diversity can provide  the  variation of  शारीरिक  and behavioural  गुण  ( phenotypes  )  upon which  प्राकृतिक   चयन  can act  ,   लकिन  , as  वर्णित  below  in  Section  6  ,  उत्पत्ति  and function of meiosis  ,   the  genetic diversity may be largely a by-product of the homologous  recombination  that is  primarily   employed  for its DNA repair function during  meiosis  .
it  is  भी  noteworthy that during meiosis  ,   विशिष्ट  genes are  अधिक  highly  transcribed   ,   और  these are  पुकारा   the   meiome  ,  the  term used in  कार्यात्मक   जीनोमिक्स   लिये   the   meiotic  transcriptome .
Meiosis is a key  विशेषता  for  सब  sexually reproducing  eukaryotes  in which homologous  chromosome  pairing ,  अन्तर्ग्रथन  and recombination occur  .
in   जोड  to  दमदार  meiotic  stage-specific   अभिव्यक्ति   of  mRNA  (  the meiome  )   ,   however   ,  there  हैं  also pervasive  translational   नियंत्रण   (  e.g . selective  उपयोग  of  preformed   mrna  ) ,  regulating  the  परम   meiotic   stage-specific  protein expression of  जीनों  during meiosis  .
यूँ   ,   दोनो   the   meiome  and translational controls determine  the   व्यापक  restructuring  of  meiotic cells  needed  to carry  आउट  meiosis  .
prior  to  the   meiosis  process the cell 's chromosomes are  duplicated  by  a   गोलाकार   of   डीएनए  replication ,  बनाना   इससे   the   मातृ   और   पैतृक   संस्करण   of   प्रत्येक  chromosome  (   homologs  ) two  सटीक   नक़ल   ,  sister  chromatids  , attached at the centromere region  .
In  the  beginning of  meiosis  the maternal  और  paternal homologs pair  to  each other .
Then  वे  typically  एक्सचेंज   भाग  by homologous  recombination   अग्रणी  to crossovers  of  DNA between  the  maternal and  पैतृक  versions  of  the chromosome  .
Spindle  मछली   bind  to  the   centromeres   of  each  जोड़ी  of  homologs   और  arrange  the  pairs  at  the spindle equator  .
Then  the   मछली  pull the  recombined  homologs to  विपरीत   डंडे   of  the cell .
As  the  chromosomes move away  इससे  the center the  कोशिका  divides  into  two  बेटी  cells , each  containing  a haploid number of  गुणसूत्रों  composed  of   दो  chromatids .
After the  recombined   मातृ  and paternal  homologs  have  अलग   into  the two  बेटी   कोशिकाएं   ,   a   दूसरी  round of cell  प्रभाग  occurs .
There meiosis  ends  as the  दो  sister chromatids  बनाना   up   प्रत्येक  homolog  हैं  separated and  मूव  into one of  the   चार   resulting  gamete cells  .
Upon fertilization ,  लिये  example  जब  a sperm enters  an  egg cell  ,   दो   gamete   कोशिकाएं  produced by  meiosis  fuse  .
The  gamete  from the mother  और  the  gamete  from  the   पिता  each  योगदान  one  हाफ  of the set of  गुणसूत्रों   कि  make  up  the  नई   औलाद   's  genome  .
Meiosis  उपयोग   अनेक  of  the   वही  mechanisms as  समसूत्रण  , a type of  कोशिका  division  प्रयुक्त   by  eukaryotes like plants  और  animals to split one cell into two identical daughter  कोशिकाएं   .
in  all  पौधे  and  in  many protists  meiosis  results in the formation of spores : haploid cells that  can   divide  vegetatively without undergoing fertilization .
Boxing ( pugilism , prize fighting , the sweet science or in Greek pygmachia  )  is a martial art and combat  खेल   in  which two people  engage  in a contest  of   शक्ति  , speed  ,   reflexes   ,  endurance and will by throwing  घूंसे  with gloved hands .
amateur  boxing is  an  Olympic and Commonwealth sport  और   is  a common  fixture  in most  of  the major  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   खेल  -  it  also  रै  its own  संसार   championships  .
Boxing is  पर्यवेक्षित   by   a  referee  over   a  series  of   one-   to  three-minute intervals called rounds .
The result  is   decided  when  an   प्रतिद्वन्दी   is   deemed  incapable to  continue   by   a  referee , is  disqualified   लिये   तोड़कर   a   नियम  , resigns by throwing  in   a  towel  ,  or is pronounced  the  winner or loser based  on  the judges  '   scorecards   at   the  end  of   the  contest .
The birth hour of boxing as a sport  may   be   इसके  acceptance  by   the   प्राचीन  Greeks  as   an  Olympic game  as   जल्दी  as  688   bc  .
Boxing evolved from  16th-  and 18th-century prizefights  ,  largely  in   ग्रेट  Britain , to  the  forerunner of  आधुनिक  boxing in the  mid-19th  century  ,  again  initially  in Great  ब्रिटेन  and later in the United States .
In 2004  ,  ESPN ranked boxing  as   the  most  मुश्किल   खेल  in the  संसार   .
Agreement or concord happens when a word  परिवर्तन  form depending  on  the  अन्य  words  to  which  it  relates .
it  is  an   उदाहरण  of  inflection  , and usually  involves   बनाना  the value of  कुछ   व्याकरणिक  category (  ऐसे  as gender  or  person )  ``  agree  ''  between different words or parts  of  the sentence  .
For example , in  मानक  English , one  may  say  i   am  or  he  is  ,  but not ``  i  is ''  or  `` he am ''  .
This  is   क्युकी   the  grammar of the  भाषा  requires  कि  the  क्रिया  and its subject  सहमत  in person  .
The  pronouns  I  और   he  are first  और   तीसरा  person  क्रमशः  , as are  the  verb forms am and is  .
the  verb form must  be   चयनित  so  कि   it  has  the  same person  as   the  subject .
the   अनुबंध  based  on   overt  grammatical categories  as   ऊपर   is  formal agreement  ,   in  contrast to notional agreement  ,   जिससे   is  based on  अर्थ  .
लिये   उदाहरण  , the  phrase  The  संयुक्त  States is  treated  as  एकवचन   लिये  purposes of agreement ,  भी  though  it  is  formally   बहुवचन  .
This is  a  list of places below mean sea  स्तर   कि  are on  जमीन   .
Places  in  tunnels  ,  mines  ,  basements  ,  dug  छेद  (  भी   साथ  open sky  )   ,   अंतर्गत   जल   ,   अंतर्गत   बर्फ  , or  मौजूदा  temporarily as  a   परिणाम  of  ebbing   of  sea tide etc  .  are  नहीं   शामिल   .
सब  figures are in meters  नीचे  sea level:
Debbie  macomber  ( born October 22  ,  1948 in Yakima  ,   वॉशिंगटन   )  is  a   best-selling  American  लेखक   of  over 150 romance novels and contemporary women  's   fiction   .
over  140 million copies  of   उसके  books are in  छपाई   throughout  the  संसार  ,  और   चार  have  become  made-for-TV-movies .
macomber  was  the  inaugural winner  of  the fan-voted  quill  Award for  रोमांस   in   2005   और  has been awarded  दोनो  a Romance  लेखक   of   अमेरिका   रीता   और  a  आजीवन   उपलब्धि   पुरस्कार   by  the  रोमांस  Writers of America  .
Catonsville  is  a census-designated place ( CDP  )  in  बाल्टीमोर   काउंटी   ,  Maryland  ,  United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 41,567 at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी   .
The  जातियाँ   झूठ  to the  वेस्ट  of  बाल्टीमोर   साथ  the city 's border  .
Catonsville is the home  of  the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of  मेरीलैंड   ,  Baltimore  काउंटी   (  UMBC  )  , a  पब्लिक  research university  साथ   over   12,000  students .
A  वकील  ,  according  to  ब्लैक  's Law  शब्दकोष  , is  ``  a person  सीखे  in the law  ;   as  an  attorney  , counsel or solicitor ;  a  person who  is  practicing law . ''
Law is  the   प्रणाली  of  नियम  of  conduct  established by the  sovereign  government of a society  to  correct wrongs  ,  maintain the stability of political and  सोशल  authority  ,  and deliver  इंसाफ  .
Working as a  वकील  involves  the   व्यावहारिक  application of abstract legal theories and knowledge to solve  विशिष्ट  individualized  समस्याएं  , or  to  advance  the   रूचि  of  those  who  retain  (  i.e.  , hire )  वकील  to perform  विधिक  services  .
The  भूमिका   of  the  वकील   varies  significantly  आरपार   विधिक   jurisdictions   ,  and  so  it  can  be  treated   यहाँ  in  तभी  the  सबसे   सामान्य   शर्तें  .
Vector  विपणन   is  the domestic sales  भुजा  of Cutco Corporation  ,   an  Olean  ,  New York based cutlery manufacturer .
the  Family and Medical Leave  अधिनियम  of 1993  (   fmla  ) is a United States federal law  requiring   covered  employers  to   provide   कर्मचारी  job-protected and  unpaid   छोड़   लिये  qualified medical  और  family  कारण  .
Qualified medical  और  family reasons include : personal or family  बीमारी   ,  family  सैन्य  leave , pregnancy ,  अपनाना  , or the foster  परवाह  placement of a  चाइल्ड   .
The FMLA is administered by  the  Wage and  घंटा   प्रभाग  of the United States Department of Labor .
the   विधेयक  was a major  भाग  of President Bill  क्लिंटन  's agenda  in  his  पहला  term  .
President Clinton signed  the   विधेयक  into law on  फ़रवरी  5 , 1993 (  ;   29   u.s.c   .  sec . 2601  ;  29 CFR  825   )  and it took effect  on   अगस्त  5  ,  1993  ,   छह  months later  .
The FMLA was intended  ``  to balance the demands of  the  workplace with  the  needs of families  .  ''
The Act  allows   योग्य   कर्मचारी  to take up to  12  work weeks of unpaid  छोड़  during  कोई  12-month period to attend to  the  serious  स्वास्थ्य  condition of the  कर्मचारी  ,  जनक  , spouse  or   चाइल्ड  ,  or  for  गर्भावस्था  or care of a newborn child , or  लिये   अपनाना  or foster  परवाह  of  a   चाइल्ड   .
in  order to  be  eligible for  fmla  leave ,  an  employee  जरूर  have been at  the   कारोबार  at  तनिक   12   महीने  ,  और  worked  at   तनिक   1,250   घंटों  over  the   पास्ट   12  months ,  और  work at  a  location  जहाँ  the  कम्पनी   employs   50  or  अधिक   कर्मचारी  within 75 miles  .
The FMLA  कवर   दोनो  public- and private-sector  कर्मचारी  ,  लकिन  certain categories of employees are excluded , including elected  officials  and their  निजी  staff members  .
the   वियतनाम  War ( ) was a Cold  युद्ध  -era military conflict that  occurred  in Vietnam , Laos  ,   और   कंबोडिया  from 1 November 1955  to  the  पतन  of Saigon on 30 April 1975 .
इस   युद्ध   followed  the  पहला   इंडोचायना  War  और   थी  fought  between  North Vietnam ,  समर्थित  by  इसके  communist allies  ,   और  the  सरकारी   of  South Vietnam , supported  by  the United States  और  other anti-communist countries .
The  viet   cong  ( also  ज्ञात   as   the  National Liberation Front  ,  or  nlf  ) , a  हलके  armed  दक्षिण  Vietnamese communist  आम  front directed by the North , largely  लड़ा   a   छापामार  war against anti-communist  शक्तियां  in  the  region .
the  Vietnam  लोगों  's  फौज  ( North  वियतनामी   फौज  ) engaged  in   a  more  conventional  war  ,  at  टाइम्स  committing  विशाल  units into battle  .
u.S.  and  दक्षिण   वियतनामी   शक्तियां   relied  on  एयर  superiority and  overwhelming  firepower to conduct search and  नष्ट   परिचालन  , involving  मैदान   शक्तियां  ,  तोपखाने   ,   और  airstrikes .
The  u.S.  government viewed involvement  in   the  war as  a  way to prevent a  कम्युनिस्ट  takeover  of  South Vietnam as  भाग   of   उनके  wider  रणनीति  of  containment   .
The  उत्तर  Vietnamese government  और   viet   cong  were  लड़  to  reunify   वियतनाम  under communist  नियम   .
वे  viewed  the  conflict as a colonial war  ,   लड़ा   initially  against France , backed  by   the  U.S.  ,   और  later against South Vietnam ,  जिससे  it  regarded  as a  u.S.   कठपुतली  state .
अमरीकी  military advisors arrived in what was then French Indochina beginning in 1950  .
U.S.  भागीदारी  escalated in the  जल्दी  1960s , with troop levels  tripling  in 1961 and tripling again in 1962 .
u.S.   कॉम्बैट   इकाई  were  तैनात  beginning  in  1965 .
Operations spanned international  सीमायें   ,   साथ   लाओस   और  Cambodia heavily  bombed  .
American  भागीदारी  in the war peaked in 1968  ,  at  the  time  of  the  tet  Offensive .
बाद  this , U.S. ground forces were gradually  withdrawn   as   भाग   of   a  policy  ज्ञात   as  Vietnamization .
despite  the Paris  सलाम  Accords ,  हस्ताक्षरित   by  all  पार्टियों  in  जनवरी  1973  ,  fighting continued .
u.S.  military involvement ended  on  15 August  1973  as  a  result  of  the  case–church  Amendment passed  by  the  u.S.   कॉंग्रेस   .
The  कैप्चर   of  Saigon by the  वियतनाम  People 's  फौज  in April  1975  marked the end  of  the  युद्ध  , and North  और   दक्षिण  Vietnam were reunified  the   following   साल   .
the   युद्ध  exacted a huge  इंसान  cost in terms of fatalities  (   देखिए  Vietnam War  हताहत   )   .
Estimates of  the   क्रमांक  of Vietnamese soldiers  और  civilians killed vary from 800,000 to 3.1 million .
Some 200,000–300,000 Cambodians  ,  20,000–200,000 Laotians ,  और  58,220 U.S. service  सदस्यों  also  died  in the conflict  .
Cleveland Volcano  in  the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed  इससे  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Space  स्टेशन  , May 2006 .
राख  plumes  पहुँचे  a height of 19  km   दौरान   the   climactic  eruption at Mount  pinatubo  , Philippines in 1991 .
A volcano  is   an   खोलने  , or rupture , in a  ग्रह  's surface  or   क्रस्ट  ,  जिससे   allows  hot  मैग्मा  , volcanic ash and gases to  एस्केप  from the  मैग्मा  chamber  नीचे   the  surface  .
ज्वालामुखी  are generally found where tectonic plates are  diverging   or  converging  .
A mid-oceanic ridge  ,  for example the  mid-atlantic  Ridge , has examples of  ज्वालामुखी  caused by  अपसारी  tectonic plates pulling  अलावा  ; the Pacific Ring of Fire  रै  examples of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic  प्लेटों   coming  together  .
By contrast ,  ज्वालामुखी  are  प्रायः  not created where two  tectonic   प्लेटों  slide  पास्ट  one  another   .
Volcanoes can also form  जहाँ   वहीँ  is stretching  और   thinning   of  the Earth  's   क्रस्ट  in the interiors of plates ,  e.g.  ,  in  the  ईस्ट  African  दरार  ,  the   कुएं  Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the  रिओ   ग्रांडे   दरार   in  North  अमेरिका   .
इस   प्रकार  of volcanism falls  अंतर्गत  the  छतरियाँ  of  ``   थाली  hypothesis '' volcanism .
Volcanism  दूर   इससे  plate  सीमाएँ  has also been  समझाया  as mantle plumes  .
ये  so-called ``  हॉटस्पॉट   ``  , for example Hawaii  ,  are postulated to arise  इससे  upwelling  diapirs  with magma from the core–mantle  boundary  , 3,000 km  गहन  in the Earth  .
erupting  volcanoes  can  pose  अनेक   जोखिमों  , not  तभी  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  eruption  .
Volcanic ash  can   be   a   threat  to aircraft , in  particular  those with jet  इंजन   जहाँ  ash  अणु   can  be  melted  by the high  ऑपरेटिंग   तापमान   .
विशाल   eruptions  can  affect   तापमान  as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid  अस्पष्ट  the sun and cool the  धरती   's  lower atmosphere or  क्षोभमण्डल   ;  however ,  वे  also absorb heat  radiated  up from  the  Earth ,  thereby   वार्मिंग   the   stratosphere   .
historically   ,   so-called   volcanic  winters  have  caused catastrophic famines .
A deep pothole  on  New  यॉर्क  City  's  Second  एवेन्यू
a  pothole ( sometimes  पुकारा  a  केतली   और  known in parts of the Western United States  as   a   chuckhole  ) is  a   प्रकार  of  disruption  in  the   सतह  of a roadway where  a  portion  of   the  road  सामग्री   रै   टूटा   दूर  ,  leaving  a hole  .
Renal  कोशिका  carcinoma  (  RCC , also known  as  hypernephroma  )  is a kidney cancer  कि   originates   in   the   अस्तर  of  the  proximal  convoluted   tubule   ,  the  बहुत  small  tubes   in   the  kidney  कि   हस्तांतरण   gf  ( glomerular  filtrate   )   इससे   the   glomerulus  to the descending limb of the nephron .
RCC  is   the  most  आम   प्रकार  of  गुर्दा  cancer  in  adults , responsible for approximately 80 %  of  cases  .
It is also  ज्ञात  to be  the   सबसे   lethal   of  all the genitourinary  tumors   .
Initial treatment  is  most  commonly   a  radical or partial nephrectomy  और   remains  the mainstay  of  curative treatment  .
Where  the   ट्यूमर  is  confined  to  the  renal parenchyma ,  the  5-year  अस्तित्व  rate  is  60-70 % , but this is lowered considerably  जहाँ  metastases have spread  .
it  is  अपेक्षाकृत  resistant to  विकिरण  therapy  और   कीमोथेरेपी   ,   हालांकि  some cases  respond   to   immunotherapy  .
Targeted cancer  therapies   ऐसे   as  sunitinib  ,   temsirolimus  ,  bevacizumab  , interferon-alpha  ,  and sorafenib have improved  the  outlook  लिये   rcc  .
estée   lauder   कंपनियाँ  , Inc. is  a  manufacturer and marketer  of  prestige  skincare   ,  makeup  ,  fragrance  और   बाल   परवाह  products .
The company  रै   इसके  headquarters in Midtown  मैनहटन  ,  नई   यॉर्क  City .
The  peritoneum  (  )   is  the serous  झिल्ली   कि  forms  the  lining of  the   abdominal  cavity  or  the  coelom  —it  कवर   सबसे   of   the   intra-abdominal  ( or coelomic  )   organs—in  amniotes and some invertebrates (  annelids   ,  for  उदाहरण  )  .
it  is  रचित  of a layer of mesothelium supported  by   a  thin layer of connective  ऊतक  .
The peritoneum both supports the abdominal  अंगों  and serves as  a  conduit  लिये   उनके  blood  और   लसीका  vessels and  nerves  .
The  abdominal   गुहा  (  the   स्पेस  bounded  by   the  vertebrae ,  abdominal  muscles  ,   diaphragm  and pelvic floor ) should not be  उलझन  with the intraperitoneal  स्पेस   (  located within the  abdominal  cavity , but wrapped  in   peritoneum  )  .
The structures  भीतर  the intraperitoneal  स्पेस   हैं   पुकारा  `` intraperitoneal '' (  e.g   .  the  पेट   )   ,  the structures in the abdominal cavity  कि  are  स्तिथ   पीछे   the  intraperitoneal  स्पेस   हैं   पुकारा  `` retroperitoneal  ``  ( e.g . the kidneys )  ,  and those structures below the intraperitoneal space are called ``  subperitoneal  '' or `` infraperitoneal '' (  e.g  . the bladder  )  .
Modern  2.5  '' SSD  प्रयुक्त  in consumer  लैपटॉप   और  desktop computers .
DDR SDRAM based SSD  .
अधिकतम  and .
PCI  संलग्न  IO  त्वरक  SSD
PCI-E  ,  DRAM ,  और  NAND  आधारित  SSD .
It  उपयोग  an external power  सप्लाई  to make the DRAM non-volatile  .
a   solid-state  drive ( SSD ) ( also known  as  a solid-state  डिस्क  or electronic disk , though it contains  no   वास्तविक  `` disk ''  of  any kind  )  is a  आंकड़ा  storage  यंत्र  using integrated  सर्किट   सभाओं  as memory to  स्टोर  data persistently .
SSD technology  उपयोग   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   अंतरफलक   संगत   साथ   परंपरागत   ब्लाक  input/output ( I/O  )   मुश्किल   डिस्क   ड्राइव  .
SSDs have no moving  mechanical   components   ,   जिससे  distinguish them from traditional electromechanical magnetic disks such as hard disk drives ( HDDs  )   or   फ्लॉपी   डिस्क  , which  contain  spinning  डिस्क  and movable read/write heads  .
Compared with electromechanical disks  ,  SSDs  हैं  typically less  susceptible   to   शारीरिक  shock , much quieter  ,  have  निम्नतर  access  समय   ,  and  कम  latency  .
However ,  जबकि  the price of SSDs has continued to decline  in   2012  ,  ssds  are  स्टिल  about 7  to  8  टाइम्स   अधिक  expensive per  ईकाई   of   भंडार  than HDDs .
Many SSDs use I/O interfaces  विकसित  for  मुश्किल  disk  ड्राइव  , thus  permitting   सरल   बदलना   in  common applications  .
,  most SSDs  उपयोग  NAND-based flash memory  ,  which retains  आंकड़ा  without power .
लिये   अनुप्रयोग  requiring fast  अभिगम   ,  but not  necessarily   आंकड़ा  persistence  बाद   शक्ति   घाटा   ,  SSDs may be constructed from  random-access   मेमोरी  ( RAM ) .
ऐसे   डिवाइस   may   employ  separate power  स्त्रोत   ,  such  as   बैटरी  ,  to   maintain  data after  शक्ति  loss  .
संकर  drives or solid state hybrid drives (  sshd  ) combine  the   सुविधाएँ  of SSDs  और  HDDs in the same  ईकाई  , containing  a  large  मुश्किल  disk drive and an SSD cache  to  improve performance  of  frequently  पहुँचा  data  .
ये   डिवाइस   may  offer  near-ssd  performance for many applications .
Salmon  roe   (   बाएँ  )  और  sturgeon  caviar  ( right )  परोसा   साथ  mother of  पर्ल   caviar  spoons  to  avoid tainting the  स्वाद   of   the  caviar .
ossetra  caviar , salmon  creme  fraiche  ,   आलू  shallot  croquette   ,   बेसिल  oil ,  अंडा  whites and yolks
Caviar , according to the Food  और  Agriculture Organization  ,   is  a  उत्पाद  made from salt-cured fish-eggs of the Acipenseridae family  .
The  roe   can  be ``  भैस  ''  (   non-pasteurized  ) or  pasteurized   ,   साथ   pasteurization  reducing  इसके   culinary  and  आर्थिक  value  .
Traditionally the term caviar  refers   तभी  to  roe   इससे  wild sturgeon in the  कैस्पियन  and Black  समंदर  ( Beluga , Ossetra and  sevruga  caviars )  .
Depending  on  the country ,  caviar   may  also be used  to   describe  the roe of other  मछली   ऐसे  as salmon ,  steelhead   ,  trout , lumpfish  ,  whitefish ,  और   अन्य  species  of  sturgeon .
Caviar  is  considered a luxury delicacy  और  is  खाया  as a garnish or  a  spread  .
In 2012 , caviar sold  लिये  $ 2,500 per  पाउंड  , or $ 3,000 to  $   5,500  per  किलो  .
The SEC Network  is  a television syndication  संजाल   featuring   सजीव  broadcasts  of  college  फ़ुटबॉल  and basketball events from  the   southeastern   सम्मेलन  .
it  is  स्वामित्व   और   संचालित  by ESPN Plus  और   is   दिखाया  in more than 50  प्रतिशत   of  households  in   the   संयुक्त  States , mostly Southeastern United States markets  .
the   सेक  Network typically  airs  in  the  noon  पूर्वी   स्लॉट  that was former home  to   the  Raycom Sports SEC  खेल  of the week .
Games  हैं  shown  locally   on  broadcast  स्टेशन  , regional  खेल  networks , as  खूब  as  on  ESPN GamePlan ,  ईएसपीएन  Full Court ,  और  ESPN3.com .
the   सेक  Network is  भी  available in  कनाडा   via  Atlanta 's WPCH-TV  .
the  SEC Network uses the same on-screen  ग्राफिक्स   फिलहाल   प्रयुक्त  by ESPN on  एबीसी  , a  संस्करण  of ESPN 's graphics package  .
SEC  संजाल  's football programming still uses a title safe area because most  of   इसके  affiliates do not  letterbox  their Standard Definition feeds  ,   जबकि  ESPN 's television networks have allowed their graphics  to   लापरवाही  the title  सुरक्षित  , but  letterbox   लिये   sd  viewers .
Starting with the SEC  2012  Basketball  ऋतु   ,   सेक   संजाल  's graphics  have  been  परिवर्तित  to a 16:9 Widescreen-only format .
इस  is  भी  being used for  the  2013 Basketball season  ,  but had still  adapted  the former  4:3-safe  graphics format  लिये   the  2012 SEC football season .
The 1990s , pronounced and also  ज्ञात   as   ``   the  Nineteen-Nineties ''  or   abbreviated  as `` the Nineties '' or  ``  the '90s '' , was  a  decade that  began  on  जनवरी  1 , 1990 , and  ended  on  दिसम्बर   31   ,  1999  .
It was  the  10th  और  last decade of the 20th century and  the   100th  and last decade of  the  2nd millennium .
The decade is  बेहतरीन  known  लिये  the end of the  ठंडा  War at  the  beginning of  the  decade and  the   विस्तार  and commercialization  of  the Internet during  the   दूसरी   हाफ   of  the  दशक   .
In  much  of the West  the  1990s  is  remembered as a period of unprecedented  सलाम  and  समृद्धि  , though many parts of the so-called Third World  faced  various problems including  नरसंहार  ,  एड्स  and new  or   continuing  ethnic tensions and civil wars  .
culturally  speaking the decade was characterized  by   the   वृद्धि   of   बहुसंस्कृतिवाद   और   वैकल्पिक  media .
Movements  ऐसे   as  grunge  ,  the  रेव  scene and hip hop  स्प्रेड  around the world to  यंग  people during  the   दशक  ,  aided   by  then-new  प्रौद्योगिकी  such  as   केबल  television and the  अंतरजाल  .
a   संयोजन  of  कारकों   ,   सहित  the mass mobilization of  पूंजी   बाज़ार   through  neoliberalism  ,   the  beginning  of  the widespread  अप्रसार  of  नई  media such as the Internet , and the dissolution of the  सोवियत  Union led  to  a realignment  और  reconsolidation  of  economic  और   राजनैतिक   शक्ति  across the world  ,   और  within countries .
Income inequality among  देशों  in the world rose sharply between the 1980s and  the  mid-1990s , before levelling  बंद  and then  गिरना  after 2000  .
नई   जातीय   विरोध  emerged  in  Africa , the  balkans  and the Caucasus , the  पूर्व  two which  led   to   the  Rwandan  नरसंहार   और  Bosnian genocide , respectively .
the  United States  began   इसके   वर्तमान  military occupation of the  मध्य  East during the summer  of  1990 with Desert Shield after it  काटें   बंद  a  विशाल  portion of the world  's   पेट्रोलियम   सप्लाई   .
लक्षण   of   कोई  resolution of  तनाव  between Israel and the Arab  संसार  remained elusive  ,   हालांकि  the  आयरिश  Troubles  आए   to  a standstill in 1998 with the  शुभ  Friday  अनुबंध  after  30   सालो  of violence  .
The  धूसर   भेड़िया  or  धूसर  wolf  (   canis   lupus   )   is   a  species of  canid   देशी  to the wilderness and remote  क्षेत्रों  of North  अमेरिका  , Eurasia , and North Africa .
It is  the  largest member of  इसके   परिवार  , with  males   averaging  ,  और  females  .
It is  समान   in  general  रूप   और   proportions  to a German  गड़रिये   ,   or   sled  dog , but has  a  larger head  ,   narrower   छाती  ,  longer  legs  ,  straighter  टेल  and bigger paws .
Its winter fur is long and bushy , and predominantly  a   mottled  gray  in   रंग   ,  although nearly pure white  ,  red , or brown  to  black  भी   occur  .
Within  the  genus  canis   ,  the gray  भेड़िया   represents   a   अधिक  specialised and progressive form than its  छोटी  cousins  (  the  कायोटी   और  golden jackal  )  ,  as  demonstrated  by   इसके   morphological  adaptations  to   शिकार   विशाल  prey  ,  its  अधिक   मिलनसार   प्रकृति  and  इसके   अत्यधिक  advanced expressive behavior  .
It is a social  एनिमल  , travelling in  नाभिकीय  families consisting of a  पन्द्रहवें   जोड़ी   ,  accompanied by the  जोड़ी  's  वयस्क  offspring .
The gray wolf  is  typically  an  apex predator  throughout  its range  ,   साथ  only  इंसानो  and  टाइगर्स  posing a serious  threat  to  it  .
it  feeds primarily  on   विशाल  ungulates , though it also eats smaller  पशु   ,  livestock , carrion  ,   और  garbage .
the  gray wolf  is   एक  of  the   संसार  's  सबसे   खूब  researched  पशु  , with probably more books  लिखा  about it  than  any  अन्य  wildlife species  .
it  has  a  long history of association with humans , having  महरूम  despised  और   hunted  in most agricultural communities due  to  its attacks on livestock , while conversely  होने  respected by some Native American tribes .
it  is  the   एकमात्र  ancestor of the  श्वान   ,  which was first domesticated in the Middle  ईस्ट  .
हालांकि  the fear  of  wolves is prevalent in  अनेक   इंसान  societies  ,  the majority  of  recorded  हमले  on people  have  been attributed to  पशु  suffering from  rabies  .
non-rabid  wolves have attacked and killed people  ,   मुख्यतः  children  ,  but this  is  unusual  ,  as  भेड़ियों  are relatively few  ,  live  दूर   इससे   लोगों  , and have been taught to  भय   इंसानो  by  hunters  and shepherds .
Hunting and trapping has reduced  the  species ' range to , though its  स्टिल  relatively widespread range  और   stable   जनसांख्यिकी   अर्थात्   कि   the  species is not threatened  at   a   वैश्विक  level , and is  इसलिए  classified by  the   आईयूसीएन   as  Least Concern .
The Roman Empire (  )   थी  the post- Republican period of  the  ancient Roman  सभ्यता  , characterised by an  निरंकुश   रूप  of government and large territorial  holdings  around the Mediterranean  in  Europe  ,  Africa  ,   और   एशिया   .
the  500-year-old  रोमन  Republic  ,  which preceded  it  ,  था  been  destabilized  through  a  series  of  civil wars  .
अनेक   कार्यक्रम  marked  the  transition from  गणतंत्र  to  साम्राज्य   ,  including Julius Caesar 's  नियुक्ति  as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC  )  ;  the   बैटल   of  Actium (  31  BC ) ;  और   the  granting of  the  honorific Augustus  to   octavian  by the  रोमन  Senate ( 27 BC )  .
the   पहला  two  सदियां   of  the Empire were  a   काल  of unprecedented stability  और  prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace  ''  ) .
It reached its greatest expanse  दौरान  the  शासनकाल   of   त्राजान  (  98–117  AD  )  .
in   the  3rd century , the Empire  underwent   a  crisis  कि   threatened  its  अस्तित्व  , but  थी  reunified and  stabilized   अंतर्गत   the  emperors Aurelian  और   diocletian   .
Christians rose to power  in  the  4th  century , during  जिससे  time a  प्रणाली  of dual  नियम  was  विकसित  in the  लैटिन   वेस्ट  and Greek East  .
बाद  the  पतन  of central  सरकारी  in  the  West in  the   5th  century  ,   the  eastern half  जारी  as what would later be  ज्ञात  as  the   बीज़ान्टिन  Empire .
क्युकी   of  the  साम्राज्य  's vast extent  और  long endurance  ,   the   संस्थानों  and culture  of  Rome  था  a  profound   और  lasting influence on the development of language ,  धर्म   ,  architecture ,  दर्शनशास्त्र   ,  law , and  फ़ॉर्म  of government in the territory it  governed   ,   विशेषकर  Europe , and by means of European expansionism throughout  the  modern  संसार   .
शिक्षा  in the  संयुक्त   राज्य   is   मुख्यतः  provided by the public sector ,  साथ   कंट्रोल  and  funding  coming  इससे  three levels  :  local ,  राज्य  , and  संघीय   ,  in  कि   अनुक्रम  .
चाइल्ड  education is compulsory  ,   और   वहीँ   हैं   भी   a   विशाल  number and wide variety  of  higher  शिक्षा  institutions  throughout  the  देश   कि  one can  चुनें  to attend  ,  both publicly  और   privately  administered .
पब्लिक   शिक्षा  is  universally  available .
School curricula , funding  ,  teaching  ,   नियुक्ति   ,  and other  नीतियों  are  नियत  through locally  निर्वाचित  school  फलक  with  क्षेत्राधिकार  over school  जिले  with  अनेक  directives from  राज्य  legislatures .
School  जिले  are usually  पृथक   इससे   अन्य   लोकल   jurisdictions  , with  स्वतंत्र  officials and  budgets  .
शैक्षणिक   मानकों   और   मानकीकृत  testing  निर्णय  are usually made  by   राज्य  governments  .
the  ages for compulsory education vary by state  .
It  begins  from ages  पाँच   to   आठ   और  ends from  आयु  fourteen  to   अठारह  .
Compulsory education requirements  can  generally be satisfied  by   educating  children  in   पब्लिक   स्कूलों  , state-certified private  स्कूलों   ,   or  an  स्वीकृत  home school  कार्यक्रम  .
in  most  पब्लिक  and  निजी  schools  ,  education is  विभाजित  into  तीन  levels  :  elementary  स्कूल  ,  मध्य  school ( sometimes called junior  ऊँची  school  )   ,   और  high school  (   sometimes   referred  to as secondary education ) .
In almost all  स्कूलों  at these levels ,  children   हैं   विभाजित  by  आयु  groups into grades ,  ranging  from  किंडरगार्टन  ( followed by first grade ) for the youngest children  in   elementary  school ,  up  to twelfth grade ,  the  final year  of  high school  .
The exact age  दायरा  of students in  ये   ग्रेड  levels  varies   थोड़ा  from area to  क्षेत्रफल   .
post-secondary  education  ,   बेहतर  known  as   ``   कॉलेज   ``  in  the  United States ,  is   generally  governed  separately  from the elementary and high school  प्रणाली   ,  and  is   वर्णित   in   a  separate section below .
सरकारी   समर्थित  , free public schools for all started being  स्थापित  after the revolution , and  विस्तारित   in  the  19th  century , as  the   परिणाम   of   प्रयत्न  of men  जैसे  Horace Mann  और  Booker  T.  Washington .
by  1870 , all states  था   फ़्री  elementary  स्कूलों  ,  albeit  only in urban  centers  .
As  the   20th  century drew  nearer   ,  states  प्रारंभ   गुजर   कानून   to   मेक   schooling  compulsory , and by 1910 ,  72  percent  of  children attended  स्कूल  .
Private schools  जारी   to  spread during this  समय   ,  as  खूब  as colleges and—in  the   ग्रामीण  centers—  जमीन   ग्रान्ट  colleges .
The  साल  of 1910 also  देखी   the   पहला   सच्चा  high  स्कूलों  .
During the rest  of   the  20th  सदी   ,   शैक्षणिक   प्रयत्न  centered on reducing  the  inequality of the schooling system  .
The  लैंडमार्क  Supreme Court case  भूरा  v. Board  of  Education  बना  the  desegregation  of elementary  और  high schools a national  प्रधानता   ,   जबकि  the  pell   ग्रान्ट  program helped  ग़रीब  minorities gain access  to   कॉलेज   .
Special education  थी  made  into  federal law  in   1975   .
The Elementary  और  Secondary Education Act of 1965  बना  standardized testing a requirement  ,  and  in  1983 , a  आयोग  was established  to  evaluate their results  और   propose  a course  of   कार्रवाई   .
The  resulting  No  चाइल्ड   बाएँ  Behind Act of  2001  was  विवादास्पद   और  its goals  proved  to be unrealistic .
A  आयोग   स्थापित   in  2006 evaluated higher education , but its  सुझाव  have  yet  to be fully  implemented  .
पॉल   ब्रैग  (  फ़रवरी  6  ,  1895 –  दिसम्बर  7 ,  1976   )   ,  nutritionist ,  थी   a   पायोनियर  in America’s  तंदुरुस्ती   गति  .
Health spending  प्रति  capita , in  $  US PPP-adjusted  ,  with the US and Canada  compared  amongst  अन्य   पहला  world nations  .
Comparison  of   the  health care  प्रणालियों  in Canada and  the   संयुक्त  States are often made by  सरकारी  , public  स्वास्थ्य  and  पब्लिक   नीति   विश्लेषकों  .
The two countries had similar health  परवाह   प्रणालियों  before  कनाडा   reformed   इसके  system in the 1960s  और  1970s .
The  संयुक्त  States spends much  अधिक   धन   on  health  परवाह   than  Canada  ,  on  दोनो   a  per-capita  आधार   और  as  a   प्रतिशत  of  जीडीपी  .
In 2006 ,  per-capita  spending for  स्वास्थ्य   परवाह   in  Canada  थी   us  $  3,678  ; in  the   u.S.  ,  us  $ 6,714 .
The  u.S.  spent 15.3  %   of   जीडीपी   on   स्वास्थ्य  care  in   कि  year  ;  Canada spent 10.0 % .
In  2006   ,  70  %  of  स्वास्थ्य  care  बिता  in Canada was  financed   by   सरकारी   ,   बनाम  46  %   in   the  United States .
कुल  government  बिता  per  capita   in  the U.S.  on   स्वास्थ्य   परवाह   थी   23   %  higher than Canadian government spending  ,   और  U.S. government expenditure on health  परवाह  was just under  83  % of  कुल  Canadian  बिता  (  पब्लिक  and  निजी   )  though  ये   आंकडे   do  n't take into account population  मतभेद  .
अध्ययन  have  आइये  to different conclusions about the  परिणाम  of this disparity  in  spending .
A 2007 review of  सब  studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian  peer-reviewed   चिकित्सा   जर्नल  found that `` health outcomes  may  be  श्रेष्ठ  in patients cared for  in  Canada versus  the  United States ,  लकिन   मतभेद   हैं   नहीं  consistent .  ''
Life expectancy  is  longer in  कनाडा   ,   और  its infant mortality rate is lower than that of  the   u.S.  , but there  is   बहस  about the underlying  कल्याणकारी  of these differences  .
One commonly cited comparison , the 2000 World Health  संगठन   's  ratings of `` overall health service  प्रदर्शन   ''   ,  which used a ``  कम्पोजिट   माप  of  उपलब्धि   in  the level  of   स्वास्थ्य   ,  the distribution  of   स्वास्थ्य  , the  स्तर   of   responsiveness   और  fairness  of  financial  योगदान  '' , ranked  कनाडा  30th  और  the US 37th  among  191  सदस्य   राष्ट्र  .
This  पढ़ाई   रेटेड  the US ``  responsiveness   ''  , or quality of service for individuals  receiving   उपचार   ,  as  1st   ,  compared with 7th for Canada .
जबकि   the   औसत  life  प्रत्याशा  for  canadians  was 80.34 years compared  साथ   78.6  years for residents of  the   us  , simply comparing the life expectancy  of  two  समूह  with  अलग  racial  मेकअप   और   अलग   मोटापा   दरों  is  संभावित  not an  प्रभावी   रास्ता   of  determining which healthcare  प्रणाली   is   श्रेष्ठ   .
the  WHO  's   पढ़ाई  methods were criticized  by   कुछ  analyses .
हालांकि  there  is  a measure of consensus that life-expectancy  और  infant mortality mark  the   सबसे   विश्वसनीय  ways  to  compare nation-wide health  परवाह  , assuming the  जनसांख्यिकी  makeup is similar , a recent report by the Congressional  शोध  Service  carefully  summarizes some  हाल   आंकड़ा   और   टीप   the   ``   मुश्किल  research  मुद्दे   ''  facing  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  comparisons .
The sound  सोर्स  has  अभी  broken through the sound  गति  barrier  ,  and is traveling  at  1.4  टाइम्स  the  गति  of sound , ( Mach  1.4   )   .
Since the source is moving faster (  साथ  a speed  )  than  the  sound waves  it  creates  ,  it actually leads  the   advancing   तरंगाग्र   .
The sound source will pass  by  a  stationary  observer ( with a speed ) before the  निरीक्षक   दरअसल  hears the  ध्वनि  it creates  .
As a result  ,  an observer  in  front of  the  source will  detect
and an observer behind the source .
a   सोनिक  boom produced by an aircraft moving at M=2.92 ,  गणना   इससे   the  cone angle  of   20  degrees .
An observer hears the boom when  the   शॉक   वेव   ,  on the edges of the  कोन  , crosses his  or  her  स्थान   .
Mach  कोन  angle
a  sonic  बूम   is  the sound associated with the shock waves created by  an  object traveling through the  एयर  faster  than   the  speed of  ध्वनि  .
सोनिक  booms  generate  enormous  amounts   of  sound  उर्जा   ,   sounding   much   जैसे   an  explosion  .
The  क्रैक  of a supersonic bullet  गुजर   ओवरहेड  is an example of  a   सोनिक   बूम   in  miniature  .
the  Tonight  दिखाएँ  with Jay Leno  is   an   अमरीकी  late-night  बात  show  hosted   by   jay  Leno that  initially  aired  इससे   may  25  ,  1992 to May 29 , 2009 ,  और  resumed production on  कूच   1  ,  2010   .
The  चौथी  incarnation of the  tonight   दिखाएँ  franchise made its debut  on  May 25 , 1992  ,   तीन  days following  जॉनी  Carson  's  retirement  as   मेजबान  of  the   कार्यक्रम   .
the  program  originates  from NBC Studios in  burbank   ,  California , and is  ब्रॉडकास्ट  Monday through Friday at 11:35  pm  in  the  Eastern and Pacific time zones ( 10:35  pm  Central / Mountain time )  .
नापसंद   कार्सन  or his  पूर्ववर्ती  Jack Paar ,  लीनो  only once  utilized  a  अतिथि   मेजबान   ,   preferring  to host  the  series  by   खुद  .
On  अप्रैल   26   ,  1999 ,  the  show began broadcasting in  1080i  HDTV , becoming the  पहला   अमरीकी  nightly talk show to  be   शॉट   in  high  परिभाषा   .
the  show is shot in 16:9  पहलू   अनुपात  .
The series  ,   जिससे  followed  the   वही  basic  स्वरूप   as  that of his  पूर्ववर्तियों   (  an  खोलने  monologue followed by  कॉमेडी   दिनचर्या  , interviews and  प्रदर्शन   )   ,  ran until  may   29  , 2009  ,  after which Leno was succeeded by Conan O'Brien  .
एनबीसी   हस्ताक्षरित  Leno to a  नई  deal  लिये   a   nightly   बात  show  in  the  10:00  pm  et  timeslot .
The primetime series  ,   titled   the  Jay Leno Show ,  debuted  on September  14  , 2009  ,  following  a   समान  format  to  the  लीनो   अवतार   of   tonight   .
Neither O'Brien  's  version of  the   कार्यक्रम   ,   जिससे  premiered June 1  ,   2009  ,  nor  The Jay Leno Show generated  the  ratings that NBC had expected .
the  network  decided  to move a condensed 30-minute  संस्करण  of Leno  's  show to O'Brien  's  time slot , and O'Brien  's  Tonight  दिखाएँ   a  half-hour later .
इस   निर्णय   मिले  with opposition from  o'brien   ,  whose stint  on  The  tonight  Show ended January 22  ,   2010  , after  जिससे   he   began  his own talk  दिखाएँ   on  TBS .
the  Tonight  दिखाएँ   साथ  Jay  लीनो   तब  began its second and  वर्तमान   अवतार  , the sixth  of   the  franchise  ,  on March 1  ,   2010   .
RFID chip next to a grain  of  rice  .
This chip  contains   a   radio-frequency  electromagnetic field coil that modulates an external magnetic field to  ट्रांसफ़र  a  coded  identification number when queried by  a   रीडर  device .
This  छोटी   प्रकार   is  incorporated in consumer products , and implanted in pets  ,  for  पहचान   उद्देश्य  .
Radio-frequency  पहचान  (  rfid  ) is the wireless  non-contact  use  of   radio-frequency   इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  fields to transfer data ,  लिये  the purposes  of   automatically  identifying and  ट्रैकिंग  tags  संलग्न  to objects .
the  tags contain electronically stored  सूचना  .
कुछ   टैग  are powered and read  at   छोटी   सीमाएँ   (  a few meters ) via  चुम्बकीय  fields  (  electromagnetic  प्रेरण  ) .
अन्य  use a  लोकल  power source such  as  a  बैटरी  , or else have  no   बैटरी  but  collect   उर्जा   इससे  the interrogating  em  field , and then act as  a   passive  transponder to  emit  microwaves or  uhf   रेडियो   लहरें   (  i.e. ,  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  radiation  at  high  बारंबारता   )   .
बैटरी   संचालित   टैग  may operate at  सैंकड़ों  of meters  .
Unlike a  बार  code , the  टैग   करता  not necessarily need  to   be  within line of sight  of   the   रीडर  , and may be  अंतःस्थापित  in the  tracked   ऑब्जेक्ट   .
RFID tags  हैं  used in many  उद्योग   .
An RFID tag  संलग्न   to  an  ऑटोमोबाइल  during  उत्पादन  can  be  used  to   track  its progress through  the   सभा  line  .
दवाएँ  can  be   tracked  through  warehouses  .
Livestock and  पालतु  may have tags  injected  , allowing positive  पहचान  of  the  animal .
चूंकि  RFID tags  can  be attached  to   कपडे   ,   possessions   ,  or even implanted  भीतर   लोगों  , the  सम्भावना  of  पढना   personally-linked  information  बगैर  consent  रै   उठाया  privacy concerns .
id   ,  ego  और  super-ego are the three  भाग   of  the psychic apparatus defined  in  Sigmund Freud 's structural model  of  the  psyche  ;  वे  are  the   तीन   सैद्धांतिक   constructs   in  terms of whose activity and interaction mental life  is   वर्णित  .
according  to this  मॉडल  of the psyche ,  the  id is  the  set  of  uncoordinated instinctual trends  ;   the   super-ego  plays the critical and  moralizing   भूमिका   ;  and the  अहंकार  is the organized , realistic part  कि   mediates  between  the  desires of the id and the  super-ego  .
the   super-ego  can stop you  इससे  doing  निश्चित   बाते  that your id  may  want you  to   do   .
Even  हालांकि  the model  is  structural  और   makes   सन्दर्भ   to  an apparatus , the  id  ,  अहंकार   और  super-ego  हैं  functions of  the  mind rather than  भाग  of  the   दिमाग  and  do   नहीं  correspond one-to-one  साथ   वास्तविक   दैहिक   structures  of the kind  dealt   साथ   by  neuroscience .
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in  the  development of  फ्रायड  's thought  :  the `` structural model  ''  ( which  succeeded  his  ``   आर्थिक  model ''  और  `` topographical model ''  )   थी  first discussed  in  his 1920 essay `` Beyond  the  Pleasure  principle   ``  and was formalized and elaborated  upon  three years  बाद   in   उसके   ``  The Ego and  the   id   ``  .
फ्रायड   's   प्रस्ताव   थी  influenced by the  ambiguity  of the term  ``  unconscious ``  और  its  अनेक   conflicting   उपयोग  .
एयर  Force ROTC emblem
The Air Force Reserve Officer Training  corps  ( AFROTC )  is   एक   of   the  three primary commissioning  स्त्रोत   लिये  officers in the United  राज्य  Air  फ़ोर्स   ,  the  अन्य  two being the United  राज्य   एयर  Force Academy  (  USAFA )  और   एयर   फ़ोर्स  Officer  प्रशिक्षण   स्कूल   (   ots  ) .
A  अधीनस्थ   कमांड  of  the  Air University  भीतर   the   एयर   शिक्षा   और  Training  कमांड   (  AETC  )   ,  AFROTC is aligned  अंतर्गत   the  Jeanne M.  holm   बीच   लिये  Officer  accessions  and Citizen  विकास  at Maxwell AFB  ,   अलबामा  .
The  holm   बीच  , formerly known  as   the  Air Force Officer  accession   और   प्रशिक्षण  Schools (  afoats  )  ,  retains  सीधा  responsibility for both AFROTC  और   ots  .
afrotc   is  the  largest  and oldest source of  commissioned  officers  लिये   the   u.S.  Air Force  .
AFROTC 's  stated  mission is  to  produce  विशेषता   नेताओ   लिये   the  U.S. Air  फ़ोर्स  .
AFROTC  इकाई   हैं   स्तिथ  on 144  कॉलेज  and university campuses  साथ   984   अतिरिक्त  institutions of higher learning participating in cross-town agreements that allow their  विद्यार्थी  to attend AFROTC  वर्ग   at  a nearby ``  मेजबान   ''   कॉलेज  or  विश्वविद्यालयों  .
according   to   afoats  HQ  ,  in  2006   ,  AFROTC commissioned 2,083 USAF Second Lieutenants  ,  with  afrotc  enrollment ranging  इससे  23,605 in  1985  to 10,231 in  1993   ,  and around 13,000 enrolled today  .
afrotc   इकाई  at  कॉलेजों   और  universities  हैं  called  ``  detachments , '' and  हैं  typically headed by an active  ड्यूटी   यूएसएएफ   अधिकारी  in  the  rank of  कर्नल   or   लेफ्टिनेंट  colonel  जो  functions as both the  detachment  Commander  लिये  USAF  उद्देश्य  and with  the  nominal title of Professor of  aerospace  Studies  (  PAS  )   भीतर   the  institution  's   अकादमिक  community .
Most  कॉलेजों   और  universities  होगा   designate  the AFROTC  detachment   as   the   विभाग  of Aerospace Studies .
the   pas   is  assisted by  तीन  to four  सहायक   professors  of  aerospace   अध्ययन  (  apas   )  , all  क्रियाशील   ड्यूटी   यूएसएएफ  officers in the ranks of major or captain .
Three USAF non-commissioned officers and one senior  non-commissioned  officer will typically  provide  military administrative  support   और   हैं   प्रायः  augmented by  एक  to two civilian staff  support   कर्मचारी   of   the  academic institution  .
भीतर   afrotc  detachments  ,  the students (  referred  to  as  `` cadets  ''  ) are  व्यवस्थित  into wings ,  समूह   ,   squadrons   ,   और  flights  ,  mirroring the USAF functional wing  ढांचा  .
the   afrotc  detachment 's cadet  wing  or  cadet   समूह   is  separated into  दो   विभाजन   :   the  General  सैन्य  Course (  जीएमसी  ) consisting  of   the  first two years of  प्रशिक्षण   ,  and  the   पेशेवर  Officer Course  (  POC  )  consisting of  the   पिछला  two  सालो  of training .
The AFROTC program  is   भी  divided  into  two training functions : the  अकादमिक   कक्षा   कार्यक्रम  ( Aerospace  अध्ययन  classes  )   और  Cadet  क्रियाएँ   (   i.e.  ,  नेतृत्व  Laboratory  ,  Physical  प्रशिक्षण   ,  and other training  )  .
Paper density (  भी  known as basis weight and grammage  )  is  a  term used in  the  pulp  और  paper industry and also  लिये  fabric industry to denote a  माप  of mass of  the  product  प्रति  unit of  क्षेत्रफल  for  a   प्रकार   of   कपड़ा  ,  पेपर  or paperboard .
The term `` density '' is not  प्रयुक्त  in its traditional sense of  द्रव्यमान  per unit volume .
`` Paper  घनत्व   ''  ,  बल्कि   ,  is a  माप   of  the  क्षेत्रफल  density .
पेपर  products  कि   let   छोटी  or no light pass through  (  e.g . poster  फलक  )  हैं  considered  घना   or   भारी   .
Paper products that  allow  some  लाइट   to  pass through ( e.g . tissue paper  )  are considered lightweight .
in   the   गूदा   और   पेपर  industry ,  it   is  common  to   नियत  a  वाणिज्यिक  paper machine to  उपज  paper to a  निशाना   पेपर  density .
Paper density can  भी   be   प्रयुक्त   to   फर्क  paper  इससे  paperboard as  the  latter  प्रायः  has a  grammage   वृहद  than  134  g/m2  .
Two ways of  expressing  paper density  हैं   commonly  used:
Expressed in grams per square meter  (   g/m2  )  ,  paper density is also  ज्ञात   as   grammage  .
This is  the   माप   प्रयुक्त  in most parts  of  the  संसार   .
expressed   in  terms  of   the   द्रव्यमान  (  expressed   as  weight ) per  क्रमांक  of  चादरें  ,  it   is   ज्ञात  as  आधार  weight  .
the  convention  प्रयुक्त  in the United  राज्य  and a  few  other countries  using   us   पेपर  sizes is  पाउंड  of  a   ream  of 500 ( or  in  some cases  1000   )  sheets  of  a given ( raw  ,  still uncut ) basis  आकार   .
जापानी  paper  is  expressed  as  the weight in kg of  1000   चादरें   .
Candace Nicole  पार्कर   (   born  April  19   ,  1986 )  is  an  अमरीकी   बास्केट  player for  the   wnba  's Los  एंजिल्स  Sparks and UMMC  ekaterinburg  of Russia .
She  is  the  younger  sister of  एनबीए  player  एंथोनी   पार्कर  .
वो   attended   the  University of Tennessee and  थी   drafted  by  the   स्पार्क्स  in 2008 .
She may be best known for being  the  first woman  to   डंक   in  an NCAA  टूर्नामेंट   खेल  and the first  स्त्री  to dunk twice in  a   कॉलेज   game—she  set both  माइलस्टोन   as  a  redshirt  freshman on  कूच  19 ,  2006   .
She also became only  the  second  खिलाड़ी   to  dunk  in  a WNBA game on June 22  ,  2008 .
A versatile player  ,   वो   is  mainly  a  forward , but  थी   सूचीबद्ध  on Tennessee 's roster as a forward  ,  center , and  गार्ड   .
She  थी  a starter on the Lady  vols   बास्केट  team , winners of  the  2007  और  2008 NCAA championships .
Parker won the  2009   निकलोडियन   बच्चे  '  चुनाव  award  as  the favorite female athlete  in   the   खेल  category .
And she  थी   a  guest star  on   फिगर   it  Out  .
A food guide pyramid is a pyramid shaped guide of  स्वस्थ  foods  विभाजित  into  भाग   to  show the recommended intake for each food group  .
the  first  खाना  pyramid was published  in  Sweden in  1974  .
The most widely  ज्ञात   खाना  pyramid was  introduced   by   the   संयुक्त  States Department  of  Agriculture in the year 1992  ,   थी  updated  in  2005 , and then replaced in  2011  .
Over 25 other  देशों   और  organisations have  भी  published food  पिरामिडों  .
Hans  ईसाई   andersen  ( ; often  referred  to in Scandinavia as  H.   C.   andersen   ;   अप्रैल   2  ,  1805august  4  ,  1875 )  थी   a  Danish  लेखक  and poet .
Although a prolific  लेखक   of  plays ,  travelogues   ,  novels , and  कविताएं   ,   andersen  is  बेहतरीन  remembered  लिये  his  परी  tales , a  साहित्यिक  genre he so  mastered  that he himself  रै  become  as  mythical  as   the  tales  he  wrote .
Andersen 's  लोकप्रियता   is   नहीं  limited  to  children ; his  stories—called   ,  or `` fantastic  किस्से  ''  —express   विषयवस्तु  that  transcend  age and  राष्ट्रीयता   .
दौरान  his lifetime  he  was  acclaimed  for having  प्रसन्न  children worldwide  और  was feted  by  royalty  .
Andersen 's  परी   किस्से  , which have been translated into  अधिक   than   125  languages , have become culturally  अंतःस्थापित   in  the West 's  सामूहिक   चेतना  ,  readily  accessible  to  children , but presenting  lessons  of  पुण्य  and resilience  in  the  फेस  of  adversity   लिये  mature readers as well .
वे  have inspired motion  तस्वीरें   ,   plays  , ballets , and  एनिमेटेड  films  .
दो   आंकड़े  locking  आँखें   in   caravaggio   's   the   सौभाग्य   teller
Eye contact  occurs  when  ``  two  लोगों   dekh   at  each other 's eyes at  the  same time  .  ''
in   इंसान   beings   ,  eye  सम्पर्क   is   a  form  of   अशाब्दिक  communication and is thought to  have  a large  influence  on  सोशल   बर्ताव   .
Coined  in  the early to mid-1960s  ,  the term has  आइये   in  the  वेस्ट  to often define the act as  a  meaningful  और   महत्वपूर्ण  sign of  विश्वास  and social communication .
The customs and significance  of  eye  सम्पर्क  vary  widely  between cultures  ,  with  धार्मिक   और   सोशल   मतभेद  often altering its meaning greatly  .
The study of eye  सम्पर्क  is sometimes known  as  oculesics  .
Bed bugs  हैं   parasitic   कीट  of  the  cimicid family that feed exclusively on blood  .
The  पद  most  commonly  refers  to  members of the genus Cimex of  जिससे   cimex   lectularius   ,  the  आम  bed bug , is the best known  as  it prefers  to   फीड  on human  रक्त   हालांकि   अन्य   cimex  species  हैं  specialized to other  पशु   ,   e.g.  , bat  बग  ,  C.  pipistrelli  (   यूरोपीय   )   ,   C.  pilosellus (  पश्चिमी   us   )  ,  और  C. adjunctus  (   संपूर्ण  eastern  us  ) .
The name of the ``  bed   कीड़ा   ''   is  derived  इससे  the  पसन्दीदा   आवास  of Cimex lectularius : warm houses and especially nearby or  अंदर  of beds and bedding or other  नींद  areas .
Bed bugs  हैं   मुख्यतः  active  at  night  ,   लकिन  are  नहीं  exclusively  nocturnal   .
They  प्रायः  feed on their  होस्ट   बगैर   होने   noticed  .
a  number of adverse health  प्रभाव  may  परिणाम  from bed  कीड़ा  bites , including  स्किन   rashes  ,  मनोवैज्ञानिक   प्रभाव   ,  and allergic  लक्षण   .
Diagnosis involves  दोनो   ढूंढना  bed bugs  और  the occurrence of compatible symptoms .
bed  bugs  have  been known as  इंसान   परजीवी  for  हज़ारों   of  years .
At  a  point in the  जल्दी  1940s , they  यहूद   ज़्यादातर   eradicated   in  the developed world ,  लकिन   have  increased in prevalence  चूंकि  1995  .
Because infestation of  इंसान  habitats  रै   महरूम  on the  बढ़ाएँ  , bed bug bites and  सम्बन्धित   शर्तें  have  महरूम   on   the  rise as well .
the  Book of  यशायाह  ( ) is the  पहला   of  the Latter  नबियों   in  the  यहूदी   बाइबल   ,   preceding  Ezekiel  ,  Jeremiah and the  किताब  of  the  Twelve .
(  the  order of  the   subsequent   किताबे  differs somewhat in the  ईसाई   बूढ़ा   वसीयत  )  .
The  पहला  39 chapters prophesy  यातना  for a sinful Judah and for  सब  the  राष्ट्र   of   the  world  कि   oppose   परमेश्वर  , while the  पिछला  27  prophesy   the  restoration  of   the  nation of Israel  और   a   नई  creation in God  's  glorious future kingdom ;  इस   खण्ड   शामिल  the  गीतों   of  the Suffering Servant  ,  four separate passages referring to the nation of Israel  ,   interpreted   by   ईसाइयों   as  prefiguring  the   coming  of Jesus  मसीह  .
Tradition ascribes authorship  of   the  book to  यशायाह   बेटे  of Amoz  ,  but  अभी  scholars  widely  agree  कि  the book is  the  work of three different authors - few scholars deny this  दृश्य   ,  and those  कि  do  ,   do  so for theological reasons .
The first , termed Proto-Isaiah  (  chapters  1–39  ) ,  contains  the words of  the  8th-century BCE prophet with 7th-century  bce  expansions  ;  the  दूसरी  , Deutero-Isaiah  (  chapters  40–55  )  ,   is  the work  of   a  6th-century  bce  author writing near the  समाप्त  of the Babylonian captivity ;  और  the  तीसरा  ,  the  poetic  trito-isaiah   (  chapters 56–66 ) ,  थी  composed in  जेरूसलम  shortly after  the   वापसी   इससे   निर्वासन  , probably  by  multiple authors .
Oregon  राज्य  University  (   osu   )  is  a   coeducational   ,  public research university  स्तिथ  in  corvallis  , Oregon , United  राज्य   .
the  university offers  undergraduate   ,   ग्रैजुएट  and doctoral degrees and a multitude of  शोध   अवसर  .
There  हैं   अधिक   than  200  अकादमिक   उपाधि   कार्यक्रम  offered through  the   विश्वविद्यालयों  .
OSU  's  programs in microbiology ,  नाभिकीय   अभियान्त्रिकी  , ecology ,  वानिकी   ,  public health ,  biochemistry  , zoology  ,  oceanography , food science  और   फार्मेसी   हैं  recognized  nationally   as   शीर्ष   टियर  programs .
The  osu  's  उदार  arts  कार्यक्रम  have  भी  grown  significantly  and the department is considered  a  ``  cornerstone  '' of  the  institution  .
अधिक  than 200,000 people  have  attended OSU  चूंकि  its  founding   .
the  Carnegie Foundation  classifies  Oregon State  विश्वविद्यालयों  as  भाग   of   इसके  top tier of research  संस्थानों   .
As of 2008  ,   osu   is   एक  of only  seventy-three  land-grant universities .
The  स्कूल  is  भी  recognized as a  sea-grant   ,  space-grant and  sun-grant   संस्था  ,  बनाना  it one of only  दो  US institutions  to   retain   सब  four designations and  the  only  पब्लिक   विश्वविद्यालयों   to  do so ( Cornell  is  the  तभी  other  साथ  similar  designations  )  .
as  one of the two flagship universities  of  the Oregon  विश्वविद्यालयों  System , OSU receives more  funding   लिये  research  ,  annually ,  than   सब   अन्य  public higher  शिक्षा   संस्थानों  in  ऑरेगॉन  combined  .
Female  स्खलन  is the expulsion of fluid by  इंसान  females from the paraurethral ducts  through  and around the female urethra during  or   पहले   an   orgasm  .
It is  भी   ज्ञात  colloquially as  gushing  or  squirting  ,  हालांकि  these are considered to be different phenomena  in  some  शोध  publications .
The exact  सोर्स   और  nature of the fluid  continue   to   be  a  टॉपिक  of debate among medical professionals ,  जिससे   is  also  सम्बन्धित  to doubts over the existence  of  the G-Spot .
the  Kanab ambersnail  ,   वैज्ञानिक  name Oxyloma  haydeni  kanabensis  or  Oxyloma  kanabense  ,  is  a critically endangered subspecies  or  species  of  small ,  air-breathing  land snail , a terrestrial  pulmonate  gastropod  mollusc  in  the   परिवार   succineidae  , the amber snails  .
The  आम  name of the amber snails is based on  the  shell  ,  which is  पारदर्शी  and when empty usually  resembles  amber in color  .
इस  species  is   endemic   to  the  संयुक्त  States ,  specifically  the state of Arizona and Utah  ,   जहाँ  it  थी  first collected  in   the  early  20th  century .
It has been listed  as   endangered   on   the  United  राज्य  Fish  और  Wildlife Service list of endangered  प्रजाति  since 8 August 1991  .
इस   घोंघा  lives in  वेटलैंड्स   ,  springs  ,   और  seeps  ,   और  only two of  इसके   प्राकृतिक  habitats are  ज्ञात   to  exist :  तीन  Lakes  ,   a   मर्ग   निकट   kanab  ,  यूटा   ,  and  vasey  's Paradise , a  वसन्त  along the Colorado River within Grand Canyon National Park .
In  इसके   प्राकृतिक   आवास   it  is  बल्कि   polyphagous   ,  feeding mainly  on   जीवाणु   ,  plants and  fungi  ,  और   reproduces  during the summer  .
Now considered a  critically   endangered  species on the  आईयूसीएन  Red List  of  Threatened Species due to a  श्रेणी  of  कारकों  (  सहित   influence  ) , the Kanab  ambersnail   रै  been  reintroduced  to  तीन  springs  ऊपर  the  ऐतिहासिक   ऊँची  water level along the Colorado  नदी   .
The Spanish  भाषा   is  the second  सबसे   प्रयुक्त   भाषा  in  the   संयुक्त  States  .
वहीँ  are  अधिक   स्पेनी  speakers in  the  United States than there are  अध्यक्षों   of   चाइनीज  ,  फ्रेंच   ,  German ,  इतालवी  , Hawaiian  ,  and  the  Native American  भाषाएं   संयुक्त  .
according  to the 2010  अमरीकी  Community Survey  conducted  by the  u.S.  Census  ब्यूरो   ,  Spanish is the primary  भाषा   बोला  at home by almost  37  million people  aged  five or older , a  फिगर  more than  दोगुना   कि   of   1990   .
There  हैं  45 million  hispanophones  who speak Spanish as  a   पहला  or second language , as  खूब   as   छह  million  स्पेनी  language students ,  composing  the  largest   नेशनल  Spanish-speaking community outside of Mexico and making  स्पेनी   the   रोमांस   भाषा  and the  indo-european   भाषा  with  largest  number  of  native  अध्यक्षों  in the  संसार  .
roughly  half of all  u.S.  Spanish speakers also  बोलो   अंग्रेज़ी   ``  very well  ,  '' based on  the   self-assessment  Census  सवाल  respondents .
The language came  to   the   देश  since  the  16th and  17th  centuries  साथ  the  आगमन   of  Spanish  colonists  in  क्षेत्रों  that would  बाद  become  the   राज्य   of  Florida , Texas  ,  Colorado , New Mexico , Arizona  ,   नेवाडा   ,  Utah  ,   और  California and of  the  Spanish  explorers   -   जो   छान   क्षेत्रों  of  42  states- .
भी  west of Louisiana  territory   थी  Spanish  between   1763  - 1800  (  year of the French recovery of territory )  ,  after  the   फ्रेंच   और  Indian  युद्ध   .
After of  the   incorporation  of these states  to   the  U.S.  in  first  हाफ   of  19th  सदी  , the  स्पेनी  language was later  reinforced  by the acquisition  of   प्यूर्टो  Rico  in   1898   और   by   बाद  waves of  the  Hispanic emigration ,  मूलरूप  from Hispanic America  ,  to the  संयुक्त  States  शुरूआत   in  the  दूसरी  half  of   19th  century until today  .
is a Latin word that  अर्थात्  `` thus ''  or   ,  in writing , `` it was thus in  the   सोर्स  material ''  .
Sic may also refer to:
Sic  ,   cluj  , a commune in  रोमानिया
sic   ,   the   क्षेत्रीय  code for Sicily
sic  (  रव   कलाकार   )   ,  styled  as  [  sic  ]  ,  stage  नाम  of  जेनिफर   मॉरिस   ,   a  Canadian  रव   कलाकार
Sic ( band  )   is  a modern Hardcore/Thrash  मेटल  band from Torshavn , the capital  of  the Faroe  आइलैंड्स
``  (  sic   )   ''  , a  सोंग   by  American band  slipknot   on   the  album  slipknot
SIC ,  the  initial  of  Marco  simoncelli  .
sic  as an acronym may  स्टैंड  for:
sic   ,  Silicon carbide , a semiconducting material ,  भी   प्रयुक्त  to  मेक  metalworking  टूल्स
SIC  (  cyclecar  )   (  Società Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard  औद्योगिक  Classification  ,   a  20th-century U.S. system for  classifying   उद्योग
International Standard Industrial Classification  a  UN system  लिये  economic activities
Shetland  आइलैंड्स   परिषद
the Swiss Interbank  clearing  system
San  isidro  Club , an Argentine rugby union  क्लबों
खड़ा  Interpretation Committee , a committee dedicated to the interpretation  of   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   हिसाब   मानकों  IFRS
Schwarz information  मानदंड  in  the   फ़ील्ड   of  statistics
Second-in-command in  the   फ़ील्ड   of  aviation
sistema  Interconectado Central  शक्ति   ग्रिड  in  चिली
Sociedade Independente de  comunicação  ( SIC ) , a television channel  in   पुर्तगाल
समुद्र  Isle City  ,  New  जर्सी  , a coastal town in the United States
segmented   पूर्णांक   काउंटर  mode  ,  a mode  of   आपरेशन  in  क्रिप्टोग्राफी
sepang   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   सर्किट  ,  a   high-end  racetrack  कि  hosts  the  Malaysian round of Formula  1
Shanghai International Circuit  ,  a  मोटर   रेसिंग   स्थान   in   शंघाई   ,  China
Simplified instructional  कंप्यूटर  , a hypothetical computer used in systems programming
sic   (  Sons Idées  couleurs  ) , an early twentieth-century  आर्ट   पत्रिका   उत्पादित   by  French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern  इलिनोइस   कॉलेज   ,  a two  साल  Junior  कॉलेज   in   harrisburg  , Illinois  ,  United States
विशिष्ट  inductive capacity  ,  abbreviated to  sic   ,  which  is   अधिक   commonly  known as  the  relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
st  Ignatius '  कॉलेज   ,   riverview  ,  a   जेसुइट   स्कूल   in   सिडनी   ,   ऑस्ट्रेलिया
alt=Five smiling  यंग  girls in various poses  wearing  white smocks over thigh-length dresses of similar color  to   उनके  hair  .
the  Tokyo  mew   mew  manga and anime  श्रेणी  features a  डाल  of characters designed  by  Mia  ikumi  .
The series  takes   प्लेस   in   टोकियो  , Japan  ,  where five adolescent  लड़कियों   ,  called Mew Mews  ,  are infused with the  डीएनए  of  endangered  species to combat aliens attempting to take over  the  Earth .
The  manga   श्रेणी  is followed  by  a  छोटी  sequel  श्रेणी  ,  टोकियो  Mew  mew   a  la Mode ,  जिससे   introduces  a  नई  Mew Mew and a new threat .
The Mew  mews   हैं   led  by  the   प्रमुख   अक्षर  , Ichigo  momomiya   ,  whose first  कार्य  is  to   एकत्रित   the  other four Mew Mews :  मिंट  Aizawa ,  सलाद   midorikawa  , Pudding  फोंग  ,  और  Zakuro  fujiwara   .
As  the   श्रेणी   progresses  , Ichigo  goes   इससे  having a crush  on  Masaya  aoyama   to   बनने  his  गर्लफ्रेंड  while  trying  to hide her secret double  जीवन   इससे  him  .
the  series antagonists  शामिल  three aliens  ,   kish   ,  Pie , and Tart , and their leader  ,   गहन  Blue  .
Originally  इससे   धरती  , the aliens were  मजबूर  to leave long ago  due  to deadly environmental changes .
वे  have  लौटे  to kill  the  humans ,  जो   वे  feel are destroying  उनके  planet ,  और  reclaim the  ग्रह  .
in  a  la   विधि   ,  middle school  छात्र  Berry Shirayuki is introduced  as  the sixth Mew  mew   और   ,  in the  अनुपस्थिति  of Ichigo  ,  the  अस्थाई   नेता  of the Mew Mews .
A  la   विधि  also introduces new set  of  antagonists ,  the   संत  Rose Crusaders ,  a  group  of  human teenagers with various psychic  abilities   साथ   a   ख्वाहिश  to  बनाएँ   उनके  own utopia .
Led by Duke , they make  अनेक   कोशिशें  to kill Berry , eventually  turning  the local  populace   विरूद्ध  the Mew  mews  .
Ikumi 's initial vision  लिये  Tokyo Mew  mew  was  a   स्टोरी   पुकारा  Tokyo  ब्लैक  Cat  लड़की  that featured a  cat-girl  battling alien invaders  .
बाद  the  स्टोरी  was transitioned to  a  more upbeat story  of  five  मादा   superheroes  , the character designs were redone to have a lighter  ,   अधिक  colorful  महसूस   .
the  main series characters were praised for  होने  a perfect fit  लिये  the overall  स्टोरी  , as well as  लिये   उनके   cute  appearances .
The characters introduced in a la  विधि  were  भी  praised  लिये   उनके  visual  दिखावे  , but criticized  as  being repeats  of  the original  श्रेणी  .
the  character Duke was also criticized for  having  a design reminiscent of the white supremacy group ,  the  Ku Klux  क्लान  .
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence  of  siltstones ( below )  और  limestones ( above )  ,  Virgin Formation ,  southwestern   यूटा  , USA
Sedimentary  रॉक्स  are  प्रकार  of rock that are formed by  the  deposition of  सामग्री  at  the  Earth 's surface and within bodies  of   जल  .
Sedimentation  is   the  collective  नाम  for  प्रक्रियाओं  that cause mineral  and/or  organic particles  (  detritus ) to  settle   और   accumulate  or minerals to  precipitate  from a  समाधान   .
Particles that  रूप  a sedimentary  चट्टान  by accumulating are called sediment .
Before being deposited , sediment  थी   formed   by  weathering  और  erosion in  a  source area  ,   और   तब  transported  to  the place  of  deposition  by  water , wind  ,  ice  ,   द्रव्यमान  movement or glaciers which are  पुकारा  agents of denudation .
The sedimentary rock cover of the  महाद्वीपों  of  the  Earth 's crust is extensive  ,  but the  कुल  contribution  of  sedimentary rocks  is   अनुमानित  to be  तभी   8  % of the total  आवाज़  of  the  crust .
Sedimentary rocks are only a thin  veneer   over  a  क्रस्ट   consisting   मुख्यतः   of   igneous  and metamorphic rocks  .
Sedimentary rocks are  deposited   in  layers as  strata   ,  forming a structure called bedding .
the  study of sedimentary  रॉक्स   और  rock strata provides  सूचना  about  the  subsurface  कि  is useful for  सिविल   अभियान्त्रिकी   ,   लिये   उदाहरण   in   the  construction  of  roads ,  घरों   ,  tunnels  ,   नहरों   or  other constructions  .
sedimentary  rocks are  भी  important sources of  प्राकृतिक   संसाधन  like coal ,  चट्टान   fuels  , drinking water or ores .
The study  of  the sequence  of  sedimentary rock  strata  is the main  सोर्स   लिये  scientific knowledge about the Earth 's history , including  palaeogeography   ,  paleoclimatology  और  the history  of   जीवन   .
the  scientific discipline  कि   अध्ययन   the  properties  और   उत्पत्ति   of   sedimentary  rocks is  पुकारा   sedimentology   .
sedimentology  is both part of geology and physical geography  और   overlaps  partly  साथ  other  disciplines   in   the  Earth  sciences  , such as pedology ,  geomorphology  , geochemistry  or  structural  भूविज्ञान   .
350px
Humans  हैं   born  with over  270   हड्डियों  , some of which fuse  साथ   into  a longitudinal axis , the axial  कंकाल  ,  to  which the  appendicular  skeleton is  संलग्न  .
संत   पैट्रिक   (   ;  ;  आधुनिक  ; ; c.  387   –  17  कूच   c.  460  or   c.  492 ) was a Romano-British  ईसाई   मिशनरी   और  bishop in Ireland .
Known as the  ``   apostle  of  आयरलैंड  ''  ,  he  is   the  primary patron saint  of  the  द्वीप  along  साथ   संतो   brigid   और   columba   .
Two authentic letters from  उसे   जीवित  ,  इससे   जिससे  come the  तभी   generally   स्वीकृत  details of his  जीवन  .
जब   he   थी  about 16  ,   he   थी  captured from  उसके  home and  लिया   as  a  स्लेव  to Ireland  ,  where he  जिया  for  छह  years before  escaping  and returning to  उसके  family .
बाद   बनने   a  cleric  ,   he   लौटे  to northern and western  आयरलैंड  as an ordained  बिशप  , but little is  ज्ञात   परिचय  the  स्थान   जहाँ  he worked  .
By  the  seventh century  ,  he had  already   आइये  to be revered as  the   संरक्षक  saint of Ireland .
Most  उपलब्धियाँ  details of  उसके  life are from  subsequent  hagiographies ,  और  these  हैं  now not accepted without  विस्तृत  criticism .
The Annals of Ulster  राज्य   कि  he  arrived   in  Ireland  in  432  ,   ministered   in  Ulster around 443  ,   और  died in 457  or  461  .
The  टेक्स्ट  ,  however   ,  distinguishes  between   ``  Old Patrick  ''  (  विचार  to  औसत  Palladius  )  and `` Patrick ,  archapostle  of the Scots ,  ''   जो  died in 492 .
The actual  तिथियाँ  of Patrick 's  जीवन  can not  be  fixed  साथ  certainty but ,  on  a  फैली  interpretation  ,  he  थी  active as a  मिशनरी  in  आयरलैंड   दौरान  the second half of the 5th  सदी  .
He is  generally   credited   साथ  being the first bishop of Armagh  ,  Primate of  सब   आयरलैंड  .
संत  Patrick 's Day  is  observed  on  March  17   ,  the  तिथि   of  his death  .
It is celebrated both inside  और   बाहर  Ireland , as  दोनो  a religious and  ,  especially outside Ireland , secular  अवकाश  .
In the  dioceses   of   आयरलैंड   ,  it is both a solemnity and  a  holy day  of  obligation  ;   बाहर   आयरलैंड  , it  can   be  a  जश्न  of  आयरलैंड   itself  .
Line  खण्ड  in the  सुनहरी   अनुपात
a   सुनहरी  rectangle  साथ  longer side  a   और   shorter  side b , when placed adjacent  to   a   वर्गाकार   साथ  sides of length  a  , will  उपज  a  समान  golden  आयताकार  with longer side  a   +   b  and  shorter   पक्ष   a  .
This  illustrates  the  संबंध   .
in   गणित   और  the  कला   ,   दो  quantities are  in  the golden  अनुपात   if   the   अनुपात   of  the sum  of  the quantities  to   the   larger  quantity  is  equal  to   the   अनुपात  of the larger quantity to the  छोटी  one .
The  फिगर  on the right  illustrates   the  geometric relationship .
Expressed algebraically:
where the Greek  अक्षर  phi  (  )  represents   the   सुनहरी  ratio .
Its value is:
The golden  अनुपात  is  भी  called the golden section  (  Latin : sectio  ओरिया   )   or  golden mean .
अन्य  names include extreme and  औसत  ratio , medial section , divine  proportion  , divine  खण्ड  ( Latin  :  sectio  divina   )  , golden  proportion  , golden cut  ,  and golden number .
Many 20th century artists  और  architects have  proportioned  their works  to   सन्निकट   the  golden  ratio—especially   in  the  रूप  of the  सुनहरी  rectangle  ,  in which  the  ratio  of  the  longer  side to the shorter is the golden ratio—believing  इस   proportion  to be aesthetically  pleasing  (  देखिए   अनुप्रयोग   और  observations below ) .
Mathematicians since Euclid have  पढ़ाई   the  properties of the golden ratio , including its appearance  in   the   आयाम  of  a   नियमित  pentagon  और  in  a   सुनहरी   आयताकार   ,  which can be cut  into   a  square and a smaller  आयताकार  with  the   वही  aspect  अनुपात  .
the   सुनहरी  ratio has  भी   महरूम   प्रयुक्त   to   analyze  the  proportions  of natural objects as  खूब  as man-made  प्रणालियों  such  as   वित्तीय  markets ,  in   कुछ  cases  आधारित  on  संदिग्ध  fits  to  data  .
उत्तर  Myrtle  बीच  is  a  coastal resort  नगर  in  horry  County  ,  South  कैरोलिना  ,  संयुक्त  States .
It  थी  created in  1968  from  चार   मौजूदा   municipalities  north  of   myrtle  Beach , and serves  as   एक  of  the   प्राथमिक  tourist towns along the Grand Strand  .
The population  थी  13,752 at the 2010 census .
World War  i  (  wwi  ) was a  वैश्विक  war centred  in  Europe  कि  began on  28   जुलाई  1914 and lasted  जबतक  11  नवम्बर   1918  .
It  थी  predominantly called the  संसार   युद्ध  or the  ग्रेट  War  इससे  its  occurrence  until the start  of  World  युद्ध  II  in   1939  ,  और  the  पहला   संसार  War or World War  i  thereafter  .
it   शामिल  all the world 's great powers , which  यहूद  assembled in two  opposing  alliances :  the   allies   (   आधारित  on  the   ट्रिपल  Entente of  the  United Kingdom  ,   फ़्रांस   और  Russia ) and the Central  शक्तियां  ( originally  the  Triple Alliance of Germany ,  austria-hungary  and  इटली   ;  but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement ,  इटली   किया  not  डालें  into the war )  .
ये  alliances  यहूद   दोनो  reorganised and  विस्तारित  as  अधिक  nations entered  the   युद्ध   :  Italy ,  जापानी   और  the United  राज्य   joined  the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and  बुल्गारिया   the   सेंट्रल   शक्तियां  .
ultimately  , more than  70  million  सैन्य  personnel , including  60  million  europeans   ,  were mobilised in one of  the   largest   युद्धों   in   इतिहास  .
More  than  9  लाख   combatants  were killed  ,   largely  because of technological advancements that led  to   विशाल  increases in  the   lethality  of weapons  बगैर  corresponding  सुधार  in  सुरक्षा  or mobility  .
It was  the   fifth-   deadliest   विरोध  in  संसार  history ,  subsequently   paving   the  way  लिये  various  राजनैतिक   परिवर्तन  ,  ऐसे   as  revolutions in  अनेक   of  the nations involved .
One  of  the long-term causes  of  the war was the  पुनरुत्थान   of   साम्राज्यवाद  in  the  foreign policies  of   the  great powers of Europe .
अधिक  immediately  ,  the  हत्या  of  archduke  Franz Ferdinand  of  Austria , the heir  to   the   सिंहासन  of Austria-Hungary  ,  on  28   जून   1914  by Yugoslav  राष्ट्रवादी  Gavrilo Princip  in  Sarajevo triggered a  राजनयिक  crisis  जब  Austria-Hungary  subsequently   वितरित   an   ultimatum  to the Kingdom  of   सर्बिया  .
Several  alliances   formed  over  the   पिछला  decades were invoked .
Within weeks  ,   the  major powers  यहूद  at war and  ,   via  their colonies  ,  the conflict  जल्द   स्प्रेड  around the world  .
on  28 July  ,  the  austro-hungarians  fired the first  गोलियाँ  of  the  war as  तैयारी   लिये   the   आक्रमण   of   सर्बिया  .
While the  russians  mobilised , the  germans  invaded neutral  बेल्जियम   और   ध्वज   on  the way  to   फ़्रांस  , providing a casus belli for  ब्रिटेन   's  declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march  on  Paris was brought to  a  halt—the so-called  चमत्कार  of  the  Marne —the  पश्चिमी  Front settled  into   a  static  बैटल  of attrition with a  गर्त  line that  बदला  little until 1917 .
On  the  Eastern Front , the  रूसी  army  थी   कामयाब  against the  austro-hungarians   ,  but was stopped in  इसके   आक्रमण   of  East Prussia  by   the  Germans .
in  November  the  Ottoman  साम्राज्य  joined the  युद्ध  ,  खोलने  up  fronts   in   the   काकेशस   ,  Mesopotamia  और  the  sinai  .
इटली  and Bulgaria went to war in  1915   और   रोमानिया  in 1916  .
In Russia ,  the  tsar 's government  collapsed  in March 1917  और   a   subsequent  revolution in November brought the Russians  to   शर्तें  with  the   सेंट्रल  Powers .
बाद  a 1918 German offensive  साथ  the western  सामने   ,  the  allies   drove   वापस  the  germans   in   a  series  of   कामयाब  offensives and American  शक्तियां  began  प्रवेश   the  trenches .
जर्मनी   ,  which had  इसके  own  ट्रबल   साथ  revolutionaries , agreed  to  an  armistice  on 11  नवम्बर   1918   .
The  युद्ध   ended   in  victory for  the   allies  .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous  as  on the  बैटल  fronts  ,   as  the participants tried to mobilize their manpower  और   आर्थिक   संसाधन   to   लड़ो   a   कुल  war  .
by   the  end of the  युद्ध   ,   चार  major  इम्पीरियल   powers—the   जर्मनी  ,  रूसी  ,  austro-hungarian  and  उस्मानी   empires—ceased  to  मौजूद   .
The  successor  states of the  पूर्व  two lost  a   ग्रेट  amount  of  territory , while the latter two were dismantled  entirely   .
the  map  of  central Europe was redrawn into  अनेक  smaller states  .
The  लीग  of Nations was formed in the  आशा  of preventing another  ऐसे  conflict  .
the  European  राष्ट्रवाद  spawned by the war  और   the   ब्रेकअप  of empires , the  परखना  of Germany  's   शिकस्त  and problems  साथ   the   सन्धि  of  versailles   हैं  agreed  to   be   कारकों   contributing  to World  युद्ध   ii  .
camden  is  a   नगर   in   camden   काउंटी  , New Jersey , United States .
it  is the  काउंटी   सीट  ,  स्तिथ  across the Delaware River from Philadelphia  .
as   of  the 2010 United  राज्य  Census  the  city had a  कुल  population of  77,344   ,   representing  a decline of 2,560 ( 3.2 % )  इससे  the 79,904  निवासियों  enumerated  दौरान   the  2000 Census , which  था  in turn  अस्वीकृत   by  7,588  (  8.7  %   )   इससे  the 87,492  गिने  in the  1990   जनसांख्यिकी  .
camden  ranked as the  12th-most   populous  municipality in  the   राज्य   in   2010   बाद  having  महरूम   क्रमित   10th   in  2000 .
camden   थी  originally  incorporated  as  a  city  on  February 13  ,   1828  ,  इससे  portions  of  the now-defunct  न्यूटन  Township  ,  while  the  area  थी  still part of Gloucester County .
On  कूच  13 ,  1844  ,  camden   became   भाग  of the  newly   formed  Camden  काउंटी   .
Although once a  thriving  center  लिये  manufacturing  और   उद्योग  , Camden is  शायद   बेहतरीन  known  लिये  its  struggles  with urban  dysfunction  .
तीन   camden  mayors have been  jailed   लिये   भ्रष्टाचार  , the  सबसे   हाल   होने  Milton Milan in  2000  .
Since 2005  the  school system  और  police department have  महरूम   संचालित  by the state of New  जर्सी  ; the  कब्ज़ा   समाप्त   in  2012 .
in  2008  ,  Camden  था  the  उच्चतम   अपराधों  rate  in   the  U.S. with  2,333  violent crimes per  100,000  people while the  नेशनल  average was 455  प्रति  100,000 .
camden  public  स्कूलों   खर्च  $ 23,770  प्रति  student ( $  19,118  on a budgetary per-pupil  आधार  ) in the  2009–10   स्कूल  year and two-thirds  of  the students graduate  .
Two  आउट  of every five residents  हैं  below the  नेशनल   गरीबी  line .
amitriptyline   (   tryptomer  , Elavil , Tryptizol  ,   laroxyl   ,   saroten  ,  sarotex  , Lentizol ,  endep   )  is a tricyclic  antidepressant  (  tca   )   .
It  is  the most widely used TCA  और   रै  at  तनिक  equal  efficacy   विरूद्ध  depression  as   the  newer class of SSRIs according to a study  इससे  early 2001  .
As well as  reducing   depressive  symptoms ,  ये  types  of  tricyclics also ease migraines  ,  tension headaches , anxiety attacks and some  schizophrenic  symptoms  .
It  is   भी  known  to   reduce  aggression and violent  बर्ताव  .
A computer is a  सामान्य  purpose device  कि  can  be  programmed  to   carry  out a  परिमित  set of arithmetic  or  logical  परिचालन  .
Since  a  sequence of operations can  be   readily  changed  ,  the computer can  solve  more  than   एक  kind of  प्रॉब्लम  .
Conventionally ,  a  computer consists of  at   तनिक  one processing  तत्व   ,   typically  a central processing  ईकाई  (  cpu  ) and some  रूप  of memory  .
the  processing element carries  आउट   गणित  and  लॉजिक   परिचालन  ,  और   a   sequencing   और  control  ईकाई  that can change  the  order of  परिचालन  based  on   भंडारित  information .
परिधीय   डिवाइस  allow information to be  पुनर्प्राप्त  from an  बाह्य  source  ,  and the result of operations saved and  पुनर्प्राप्त  .
The first electronic digital computers  यहूद   विकसित  between  1940   और  1945 in  the  United Kingdom  और  United States .
originally  they  यहूद  the  आकार   of   a  large room  ,   consuming  as much  शक्ति  as  अनेक  hundred modern personal computers ( PCs )  .
In this  era  mechanical  एनालॉग   कंप्यूटर  were  प्रयुक्त   लिये  military applications .
Modern  कंप्यूटर  based  on  integrated  circuits   हैं   लाखो  to  अरबों   of   टाइम्स   अधिक   सक्षम   than  the early machines  ,  and occupy a fraction of the  स्पेस  .
Simple computers are small enough to fit into mobile  डिवाइस   ,  and  मोबाईल   कंप्यूटर  can be powered by small batteries  .
Personal  कंप्यूटर  in their various  फ़ॉर्म   हैं  icons of the Information Age and are what most people think of  as  “computers.”
however   ,  the embedded  कंप्यूटर   मिला   in  many  डिवाइस  from  mp3   खिलाड़ी  to fighter aircraft and from toys to industrial  robots   हैं  the most numerous .
``  Barefoot  और  pregnant '' is a phrase  सबसे  commonly associated with the controversial idea that women should not  कार्य  outside the  घर  and  चाहिए  have many children  दौरान  their  reproductive  years .
it  has several  अन्य  meanings as  खूब  .
It  is   a  figure of  वाक   .
the  phrase  ``  barefoot and pregnant ''  थी  probably  पहला   प्रयुक्त  sometime before 1950  .
an  article from 1949 states ,  ``   by  early 1949 ,  twa   was—in   the  words of  इसके  new  अध्यक्ष   ,  Ralph  S.   damon—both   'barefoot  and pregnant  .   '  ''
Its usage  may  date  as  early as  the   1910s  .
An article published  in  1958 states  the  phrase was first  प्रयुक्त   by  a  ``   dr.   hertzler   ''   40   सालो  earlier  .
``  Some forty  सालो   पहले   ,  Dr. Hertzler advanced a hypothesis  जिससे  young women of  आज   seem  bent  on  proving correct. '
The only way to keep a woman  प्रसन्न   ,  ' he  कहा   ,  'is  to   रखना  her  barefoot   और  pregnant  .  ' ''
Oakhurst  is   a   census-designated  place and  unincorporated   जातियाँ   भीतर  Ocean  township  , in Monmouth County , New  जर्सी   ,  United  राज्य  .
as  of the 2010  संयुक्त   राज्य  Census  ,  the CDP  's   जनसांख्यिकी   थी   3,995   .
विश्वविद्यालयों  of  फीनिक्स  Stadium  ,  opened August  1  , 2006 , is  a   बहुउद्देशीय  football stadium located in Glendale  ,   एरिज़ोना   .
it  is the home of  the  Arizona Cardinals of  the  National Football League ( NFL  )  and the annual Fiesta Bowl .
The stadium  is  located  अगला   द्वार  to  the  Jobing.com Arena  और  it features the first  fully   retractable  natural grass  playing  surface built  in   the  United States  on   शीर्ष  of an AirField Systems drainage system  .
An opening  on  one side  of  the  स्टेडियम   allows   the   playing  field to move to the  exterior   of  the building ,  allowing  the entire  प्राकृतिक  turf  playing   सतह  to be  उजागर   to  daylight .
The  स्टेडियम  has hosted  सुपर   कटोरी   xlii   ,   और  the 2011  bcs   नेशनल   चैंपियनशिप   खेल  , a  खेल   कि   it   होस्ट   प्रत्येक   चार  years  ,  which  नियत  the  स्थान  's entertainment  उपस्थिति   रिकार्ड   of   78,603   on  January 11  ,   2011  .
it   होगा  again  मेजबान   सुपर   कटोरी  XLIX  in  2015 .
The University of Phoenix acquired the naming  अधिकारों   in   सितंबर  2006 ,  shortly  after  the  stadium  था  opened under  the  name Cardinals Stadium .
The  ``  University  of   फीनिक्स   ``  name  is  applied as a corporate  प्रायोजक   ,   और   नहीं   as   the  home stadium of the  विश्वविद्यालयों  ( which has no intercollegiate athletics  कार्यक्रम  ) .
the  stadium  रै   भी   hosted  the WWE event WrestleMania  xxvi   साथ   72,219   प्रशंसक  in attendance .
The  इवेंट  was held in the  स्टेडियम  on March  28th  2010 .
Joshua Lawrence  चेम्बरलेन   (  September 8 , 1828 – February  24   ,  1914  )   ,  born as  लॉरेंस  Joshua Chamberlain , was  an   अमरीकी  college  प्राध्यापक   इससे   the  State of  maine   ,  who  volunteered   दौरान  the  अमरीकी  Civil  युद्ध   to   जुड़ें   the   संघ  Army .
Although having no  पहले  education  in  military  रणनीति  ,  he  became a highly respected  और  decorated  संघ   अधिकारी  ,  reaching   the   रैंक  of brigadier  सामान्य  (  और  brevet major  सामान्य  ) .
लिये   उसके  gallantry at  gettysburg  ,  he  was  awarded   the  Medal of  सम्मान  .
he  was  दिए  the honor  of   commanding  the  संघ   सैनिकों  at  the   आत्मसमर्पण  ceremony for  the   infantry  of  रॉबर्ट  E.  ली   's   फौज   at   appomattox   ,  Virginia .
After the  युद्ध  ,  he   डाला   राजनीती   as  a Republican and  परोसा  four one-year terms  of   दफ्तर  as  the  32nd  राज्यपाल   of  Maine  .
He  परोसा   on   the   संकाय  , and as president  ,   of  his  अल्मा  mater ,  bowdoin   कॉलेज  .
An inning , or innings , is a  fixed-length  segment  of  a  खेल  in any of a  किस्में  of sports –  सबसे   notably  cricket and baseball during  जिससे  one team attempts  to   स्कोर   जबकि  the other  टोली  attempts to prevent  the  first  इससे  scoring  .
In cricket  ,  the  पद   पारी   is   दोनो   एकवचन   और  plural and is  सदा   spelled   और  pronounced  साथ   the  terminal ``  s  '' .
In baseball and softball  ,   the  singular form  is  inning and only the plural  takes  an ``  s  ''  .
In many other  खेल   ,   the  length  of  the game  is   लिखवाई   by   a  clock  और  teams swap  अप्रिय  and  रक्षात्मक   भूमिकाएँ  dynamically  by   लेने   कब्ज़ा  of  a  ball or  समान   मद  .
in  baseball and cricket ,  however  ,  एक   टोली  ,  कहा  to  be   ``   बल्लेबाजी  '' ,  कोशिशें  to score  ``  runs '' —see  चलाएं  (  बेसबॉल  )  और  run (  क्रिकेट   )  —while  the  other team  ,   कहा  to be `` fielding  ''  , attempts to prevent the  स्कोरिंग  of  रनों  and  मिलेंगी   सदस्यों   of   the  batting  टोली   आउट   .
the  teams switch places after  the   क्षेत्ररक्षण   टोली  has  succeeded  in getting a fixed number  of   खिलाड़ी  out ,  बनाना   a  clock unnecessary .
In  क्रिकेट   ,   the  term innings is  भी   प्रयुक्त  to refer to the play  of   एक  particular  खिलाड़ी  ( Smith had  a  poor innings  ,  scoring only 12  )   .
By extension , this term can  be  used  in  British  अंग्रेज़ी  for almost  कोई  activity which  takes  a period of time  (  The Liberal  सरकारी   था   a  good  पारी   ,  but finally lost office in 1972 ,  or  You 've had a fair innings , now  it  's my turn ,  अर्थ  ``  तुम   have  spoken for long enough  ,   अभी  let me speak  ''   )   .
It  is   भी   प्रयुक्त   in   सन्दर्भ  to someone  जो   रै  died  at   a  reasonably old  आयु   or  lived a  समृद्ध   और  rewarding life ( Ah , well .
John was 89 .
At least  he  had a good innings  )   .
The baseball-derived  समानांतर   to  this in American  अंग्रेज़ी  is the  पद  at  चमगादड़   .
According to  the   ऑक्सफोर्ड   अंग्रेज़ी  Dictionary  ,  the  पद  innings has  महरूम  used  in  reference to  क्रिकेट  since at  तनिक   1735   .
As cricket was  a   वयस्क  , highly  व्यवस्थित  sport  in  the  1600s  in  इंग्लैण्ड  ,  the   पद  's origin could well  precede   इस   पहला  recorded  उपयोग   .
The  शब्द  inning  अर्थ   'a  gathering  in   '  is  पहला  recorded in 1522  ,  and  could   be  related  .
Adenosine deaminase  कमियां   ,  also called ADA  कमियां  or ADA-SCID ,  is  an  autosomal   recessive  metabolic disorder  कि   कल्याणकारी  immunodeficiency  .
It occurs in fewer  than  one  in  100,000 live births worldwide .
It  खाते  for about 15  %  of  सब   मामले  of severe  संयुक्त  immunodeficiency ( SCID  )  .
it  is  बहुत  rare , you have  a  3  %  chance of  getting  this  जीन   .
ADA deficiency may be  उपस्थित   in  infancy ,  बाल्यकाल  , adolescense  ,   or   adulthood  .
Age of onset  और  severity is  सम्बन्धित   to  some 29 known genotypes  संबद्ध  with  the   विकार  .
An  उदाहरण   of   शहरी  poverty in  इस   slum  in  जकार्ता  ,  इंडोनेशिया
Poverty is the  राज्य  of one who lacks  a  certain amount of  सामग्री  possessions or money .
Absolute poverty or  destitution   refers  to  the  deprivation  of  basic  इंसान  needs  ,  which commonly includes  खाना   ,   जल  , sanitation ,  कपडे  , shelter ,  स्वास्थ्य  care and education  .
Relative poverty is defined contextually as  आर्थिक   असमानता  in the  स्थान  or society in  जिससे   लोगों  live  .
लिये   much  of history , poverty was considered largely unavoidable as traditional  मोड्स  of  उत्पादन   यहूद  insufficient  to   दे   an  entire population a comfortable standard of living .
बाद   the  industrial revolution ,  द्रव्यमान  production  in  factories  बना  wealth increasingly  अधिक  inexpensive and accessible .
Of  अधिक   महत्व  is the modernization of agriculture  ,  such  as   fertilizers  , in order  to  provide enough yield to feed the  जनसांख्यिकी  .
The  सप्लाई  of basic needs can  be  restricted  by   constraints  on  सरकारी   सेवाएं  such  as  corruption  ,  tax  avoidance   ,  debt and loan conditionalities and by the brain drain  of   स्वास्थ्य   परवाह  and  शैक्षणिक   पेशेवर   .
Strategies of increasing income to make basic needs more  सस्ती  typically  शामिल   welfare  , economic freedoms , and providing financial services .
Poverty  कटौती  is a  प्रमुख   लक्ष्य  and  समस्या   लिये  many international  संगठन  such as the United Nations and  the  World  बैंको   .
the  World Bank estimated 1.29  अरब  people were living  in  absolute poverty in  2008  .
Of these  ,  about 400  लाख   लोगों  in absolute  गरीबी  lived in India and 173 million  लोगों  in China .
In USA 1 in  5  children lives in poverty  .
In terms  of   प्रतिशत  of regional populations , sub-Saharan Africa at  47   %  had  the  highest  incidence   रेट  of absolute poverty  in   2008   .
Between 1990  और   2010   ,  about  663  million  लोगों  moved above the absolute poverty level .
Still , extreme  गरीबी  is  a  global  चुनौती   ;  it is observed  in  all  भाग  of  the  world ,  सहित  the  विकसित   economies   .
मशरूम  poisoning ( also  ज्ञात   as   mycetism  )  refers  to  नुकसानदेह  effects from  ingestion  of toxic substances present in a  मशरूम  .
These symptoms can  vary   इससे  slight  जठरांत्र  discomfort  to   मौत   .
The toxins  उपस्थित  are  द्वितीयक  metabolites produced  in   विशिष्ट   biochemical  pathways  in  the  fungal   कोशिकाएं  .
Mushroom poisoning  is  usually  the   परिणाम  of  ingestion  of  जंगली   मशरूम  after misidentification of  a  toxic mushroom  as  an edible  प्रजाति   .
The most  आम   कारण  for  इस  misidentification is  बंद   प्रतिरूप  in  शर्तें   of  colour and general morphology of the toxic mushrooms  प्रजाति  with edible species  .
Even very  अनुभवी  wild  मशरूम   gatherers  are  upon  rare  अवसर  poisoned  by   खाने   विषाक्त   प्रजाति   ,  despite being  खूब  aware  of  the risks ,  through  carelessness .
To prevent  मशरूम   विषाक्तता  , mushroom  gatherers  need to be very  परिचित   साथ  the  मशरूम   वे  intend to  collect  as well as  साथ  any  similar-looking   विषाक्त   प्रजाति   .
in  addition  ,  edibility  of  mushrooms may depend on methods of preparation for  कुकिंग   .
collectors  also  need   to   be   खूब  aware that  edibility   or  toxicity  of   कुछ   प्रजाति  varies with geographic  स्थान  .
इंसान  height is the distance from  the  bottom  of  the  फीट  to the top  of  the  सिर  in a  इंसान  body  ,   खड़ा   वीर्यपात  .
When populations  share   जेनेटिक   पृष्ठभूमि   और   पर्यावरणीय  factors  ,   औसत  height is  अक्सर   characteristic  within  the   समूह  .
असाधारण   ऊँचाई  variation  (  around 20  %  deviation  इससे  average  )  within  ऐसे  a population is sometimes due  to  gigantism or  dwarfism  ,  जिससे  are medical  शर्तें  caused by specific genes  or  endocrine  abnormalities   .
In regions of extreme poverty or prolonged  warfare   ,   पर्यावरणीय  factors like chronic malnutrition  दौरान  childhood or  किशोरावस्था   may  account  लिये  delayed  विकास   and/or  ( in severe cases ) marked reductions  in   वयस्क  stature even  बगैर  the presence  of  any of  ये  medical  शर्तें  .
Apollo  11   थी  the  spaceflight  that  उतरा  the first humans  ,   अमेरिकी  Neil Armstrong  और   बज़   एल्ड्रिन   ,  on  the  Moon on  जुलाई   20  ,  1969   ,   at   20:18  UTC .
Armstrong  became   the  first  to   कदम   onto   the  lunar  सतह   6   घंटों  later on  जुलाई  21 at  02:56  UTC .
Armstrong spent about two  और  a  हाफ  hours outside  the  spacecraft , Aldrin  थोड़ा  less ;  और   साथ  they  एकत्रित  of lunar  सामग्री  for  वापसी  to Earth .
A  तीसरा   सदस्य   of  the mission  ,   माइकल   कॉलिन्स   ,  piloted the command spacecraft alone in lunar  कक्षा   जबतक   आर्मस्ट्रांग   और  Aldrin  लौटे  to  it  just under  a   दिन   बाद   लिये  the  ट्रिप  back to  धरती  .
Launched  by   a   शनि   v  rocket  इससे  Kennedy Space Center in  merritt   द्वीप  , Florida  on  July 16 , Apollo  11   थी  the fifth manned mission  of  NASA  's  Apollo  कार्यक्रम  .
The  अपोलो   spacecraft  had three  भाग  :  a   कमांड  Module with a  केबिन  for the three  astronauts  which was the only part  जिससे  landed back on Earth ; a Service Module which supported  the  Command Module with  नोदन   ,  electrical  शक्ति  ,  ऑक्सीजन   और  water ; and  a  Lunar Module for landing on the Moon .
बाद  being sent to the Moon by  the  Saturn V 's upper  स्टेज  , the  astronauts   अलग  the  spacecraft  from it and travelled for three days  जबतक  they  डाला  into lunar orbit  .
Armstrong and  एल्ड्रिन   तब   स्थानांतरित   into   the  Lunar Module and landed in the  समुद्र  of Tranquility .
They stayed a total of about 21  और   a   हाफ  hours on  the  lunar surface .
After  उठाने  off in the upper part of the Lunar Module and  rejoining  Collins in  the  Command Module  ,  they returned to  धरती   और  landed  in  the  प्रशांत   समंदर   on  July 24 .
ब्रॉडकास्ट  on live TV to a  world-wide  audience  ,  Armstrong stepped onto the lunar  सतह  and described  the  event as ``  एक  small step for [ a  ]   man  ,  एक  giant leap for  mankind  . ''
Apollo 11  effectively  ended  the   स्पेस  Race  और  fulfilled  a  national goal  प्रस्तावित  in  1961   by  the late  u.S.  President  जॉन   F.  Kennedy in  a  speech  पहले  the  संयुक्त  States  कॉंग्रेस   ,  `` before this decade  is  out  ,   of   लैंडिंग  a  man  on  the  Moon and returning him safely to the  धरती  . ''
The FIFA World Cup , often  बस  the  संसार  Cup  ,   is   an  international association football competition contested by the  वरिष्ठ   मेन   's  national  टीमों   of   the   सदस्यों  of Fédération  internationale   de   फ़ुटबॉल  Association  (  FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
the  championship has been awarded  प्रत्येक   चार  years  चूंकि  the  inaugural  tournament in 1930  ,  except  in   1942  and  1946  when  it   थी  not held because of the Second World War .
The current champions are Spain  ,  who  जीती   the  2010 tournament  .
The current  स्वरूप   of   the  tournament involves 32 teams  स्पर्धा  for  the  title  at  venues within the host nation (  s   )   over  a period of about  a  month ;  इस   phase  is often called the World  कप  Finals .
A qualification  phase  ,  जिससे  currently takes  प्लेस  over  the   preceding  three years , is used  to   determine   जिससे   टीमों   qualify  for  the   टूर्नामेंट  together  साथ   the   मेजबान   स्वदेश  (  s  )  .
The 19 World  कप   tournaments  have  महरूम   जीती   by   आठ   अलग  national teams .
Brazil  have   जीती  five times ,  और  they are the only team to  have  played  in  every  टूर्नामेंट  .
the  other World  कप  winners  हैं  Italy  ,   साथ   चार   शीर्षक  ;  जर्मनी  , with  तीन   शीर्षक  ;  अर्जेंटीना  and inaugural winners Uruguay  ,  with two titles each ;  और  England ,  फ़्रांस   ,  and  स्पेन   ,   साथ   एक  title each .
the  World Cup  is   the   संसार  's most  widely  viewed sporting  इवेंट  ; an  अनुमानित  715.1 million  लोगों  watched the  फाइनल   मैच  of the 2006  फीफा   संसार   कप   आयोजित  in Germany  .
the  next three World Cups will be  hosted   by  Brazil in 2014 ,  रूस  in 2018 ,  और  Qatar in 2022 .
Genocide  is  a term coined in  1944  by Raphael Lemkin to  describe  the deliberate and systematic destruction  ,   in  whole or  in  part ,  of   an  ethnic  ,  racial  ,  religious ,  or   नेशनल   समूह  .
it   is  defined  in  Article  2  of  the   सम्मेलन   on   the   रोकथाम  and  दंड  of the Crime  of  Genocide (  cppcg   )  of  1948  as  ``   कोई   of  the following acts  वचनबद्ध  with  intent   to  destroy  ,  in whole  or  in part , a  नेशनल  , ethnical , racial or  धार्मिक  group  ,  as such : killing  सदस्यों   of   the  group ; causing  गंभीर  bodily  or   दिमागी   नुक़सान   to  members of  the   समूह   ;  deliberately inflicting  on   the  groups  शर्तें  of  जीवन   ,  calculated to bring about  इसके  physical destruction in whole  or  in  भाग   ;  imposing measures  intended  to prevent births within the  समूह   ;  [  और   ]   forcibly  transferring  children  of the  समूह  to  another  group .  ''
skulls   of  victims of the Rwandan  नरसंहार
The preamble  to  the CPPCG not only  राज्य  that ``  नरसंहार  is a  अपराधों   अंतर्गत  international  विधि  ,  contrary   to   the  spirit  और   aims   of   the  United  राष्ट्र   और  condemned by  the  civilized world '' , but  भी  that  ``   at   सब   अवधि  of history  नरसंहार   रै  inflicted  ग्रेट  losses  on  humanity ''  .
Determining what  ऐतिहासिक   कार्यक्रम  constitute a genocide  और  which are merely  दण्ड  or inhuman  बर्ताव  is  नहीं   a  clear-cut  पदार्थ  .
In  nearly  every case  जहाँ  accusations of genocide have circulated ,  partisans   of  various  पहलू   have   fiercely  disputed the interpretation and  विवरण   of   the  event , often to  the  point of promoting  wildly  different versions  of   the   तथ्य   .
An accusation of  नरसंहार  is  कतई  not  लिया   हलके   और  will almost always  be   विवादास्पद  .
The  following   सूची   of  genocides and alleged  genocides  should  be  understood in this  कॉन्टेक्स्ट  and can not be regarded  as   the  final  शब्द   on   ये  subjects .
a   समय   बेल्ट  is a non-slipping  mechanical  drive  बेल्ट  and the term may  refer   to  either:
Toothed belt ,  a  flexible belt with teeth  moulded   onto  its inner  सतह
समय  belt ( camshaft  )  ,  a   toothed  belt used  to   ड्राइव  the camshaft (  s   )  within an  आतंरिक  combustion engine
The culture  of  the  संयुक्त  States is  primarily   a  Western  संस्कृति  , but is also  बहकावे  by Native  अमरीकी  ,  अफ़्रीकी  , Asian  ,  Polynesian , and Latin American cultures .
American culture started  इसके   गठन  over 10,000  सालो  ago  साथ   the  migration of Paleo-Indians  इससे   एशिया  into  the   प्रदेश  that is today  the  continental  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
it  has  इसके  own unique  सोशल   और  cultural  विशेषताएँ  such  as  dialect ,  म्यूज़िक  ,  कला   ,  social habits  ,   भोजन   ,  and folklore .
the  United  राज्य   of  America is  an   ethnically  and  racially  diverse  देश  as  a  result of large-scale immigration  इससे   अनेक   अलग  countries  throughout  its history .
Its  मुख्य   जल्दी  European influences came  इससे  English  ,   स्कॉटिश   ,   वेल्श  and Irish settlers of  औपनिवेशिक   अमेरिका   दौरान  British rule .
British  संस्कृति  ,  due  to colonial ties  साथ  Britain that spread the  अंग्रेज़ी  language ,  विधिक  system  और  other cultural inheritances , had  a  formative  influence   .
Other important influences  आए   इससे   अन्य  parts of  पश्चिमी  Europe  ,  especially Germany  ,  France , and  इटली   .
Original elements also  खेल  a  दमदार   भूमिका  ,  ऐसे   as  the invention  of   jeffersonian   लोकतंत्र  .
Thomas  जेफरसन   's  Notes on the State of Virginia was  शायद   the  first influential domestic  सांस्कृतिक  critique by  an  American  और   a  reactionary  टुकड़ा   to  the prevailing  यूरोपीय  consensus that  अमेरिका   's  domestic originality  थी   विकृत   .
Prevalent  विचार  and ideals that  विकसित  domestically  ,  such as  नेशनल   छुट्टियाँ   ,  uniquely American sports ,  सैन्य   परंपरा  , and  नवप्रवर्तनों   in  the  कला  and  entertainment  give  a  strong  भाव  of national pride among  the   जनसांख्यिकी  as  a  whole  .
American culture includes both conservative  और  liberal  तत्व   ,   वैज्ञानिक  and  धार्मिक  competitiveness , political structures  ,   रिस्क   लेने  and  फ़्री  expression , materialist and  moral  elements  .
Despite  निश्चित   सतत  ideological  सिद्धान्त   (  e.g . individualism  ,   समतावाद  , and  आस्था  in freedom and  लोकतंत्र  )  ,   अमरीकी  culture has a  किस्में  of  expressions   due   to  its geographical  स्केल  and  जनसांख्यिकी  diversity .
the   लचीलापन  of  u.S.  culture and  इसके  highly symbolic nature lead some researchers  to  categorize American culture as a  mythic   पहचान  ; others see  it  as  अमरीकी  exceptionalism  .
it  also  शामिल  elements that evolved from  स्वदेशी   अमेरिकी  , and other  जातीय  cultures—most prominently  the  culture  of  African Americans  ,  cultures  इससे  Latin America , and  एशियाई   अमरीकी   संस्कृतियों   .
Many  अमरीकी   सांस्कृतिक  elements , especially from popular culture ,  have   स्प्रेड   आरपार  the globe  through  modern mass media .
The United States has often  महरूम  thought  of   as   a  melting pot , but beginning  in  the  लेट  1990s and  जल्दी  2000s , it trends towards cultural diversity , pluralism and  the  image of a  सलाद   कटोरी  instead  .
due   to   the  extent of American culture  ,  there  हैं  many integrated  लकिन  unique  सोशल   subcultures   भीतर  the  संयुक्त  States  .
The  सांस्कृतिक   संबद्धों   an   व्यक्तिगत  in  the  United  राज्य  may have  commonly  depend on social class ,  राजनैतिक   अभिविन्यास   और   a  multitude  of  demographic  विशेषताएँ  such as  धार्मिक   पृष्ठभूमि   ,   occupation  and  जातीय   समूह  membership .
Samoan ( Gagana  fa'a   sāmoa  or  gagana   sāmoa   —  IPA  :  )  is  the  भाषा  of  the  Samoan Islands  ,   comprising  the  स्वतंत्र  country  of  Samoa and  the  United States  territory  of American Samoa  .
It is an official language—alongside English  —in   दोनो   jurisdictions  .
Samoan , a Polynesian language  ,   is  the  पहला  language  लिये  most of the  समोआ  Islands  '  population of about 246,000 .
साथ  many Samoan people living  in   अन्य   देशों   ,  the  कुल  number of speakers worldwide is  अनुमानित  at 370,000  .
The  भाषा   is   notable  for the phonological  मतभेद  between formal and informal speech as  खूब  as a ceremonial form used in  samoan   छाये  .
a  glucose tolerance test is a  चिकित्सा  test  in   जिससे   ग्लूकोज   is  given  और  blood samples taken  afterward   to  determine how quickly  it   is  cleared  इससे   the  blood .
The test  is  usually used to  परीक्षण  for diabetes  ,  insulin resistance ,  और   sometimes  reactive  hypoglycemia   और   acromegaly   ,   or   rarer  disorders of carbohydrate metabolism .
In  the  most  commonly   performed   संस्करण  of the test , an oral  ग्लूकोज  tolerance  परीक्षण   (  OGTT ) ,  a  standard  खुराक  of glucose  is  ingested by mouth and blood  स्तर  are checked two  घंटों   बाद  .
अनेक   विसंगतियाँ  of the  gtt  have  महरूम  devised over the years  लिये  various  उद्देश्य   ,   साथ  different  मानक  doses  of  glucose  ,   अलग   रूट  of administration ,  अलग   intervals   और   durations   of  sampling , and various substances measured  in  addition  to  blood  ग्लूकोज   .
``  What  परिचय  Me  ''   is  a song  लिखा   by  Garry Frost and  frances  Swan ,  पहला   अंकित  by  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  rock  बैंड  Moving  तस्वीरें   इससे   उनके  album Days of  innocence  .
It was  the   बैंड   's  first number-one single in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  spending six  लगातार  weeks  on  the  शीर्ष   ;  there , it  थी  the  second-highest  selling  सिंगल   of   1982  .
the  success  of   the   सोंग  led them  to  America where it  became  a  hit  ,  reaching   #   29  on the  u.s  .  बिलबोर्ड   hot   100  chart  .
the  song stayed in  the  U.S.  चार्ट   लिये  such a long  समय   कि  it  प्रबंधित  to  मेक   billboards   शीर्ष  100  पॉप   singles  of 1983 ,  at  # 88 , a  विरल  feat for a  सिंगल   साथ  such  a  low peak  स्थिति  .
The  सोंग  made  an  unusual  वापसी  in 1989 ,  peaking  at  #  46  .
On the  बाएँ  a  मुर्गा  egg , the  अंडा  most  commonly  eaten  by  humans  ,   और  on the right two  बटेर   अंडे
अंडे  are laid by females  of   अनेक   अलग  species  ,  including  पक्षियों   ,   सरीसृपों   ,   amphibians  ,  और  fish ,  और  have  महरूम  eaten by  mankind  for thousands of years  .
Bird and  reptile  eggs  consist   of  a  सुरक्षात्मक  eggshell , albumen  (  egg white )  ,  and vitellus  (  egg yolk )  ,  contained within various  पतला   झिल्लियों   .
लोकप्रिय  choices  लिये  egg consumption are  मुर्गा  , duck ,  बटेर  , roe , and caviar ,  लकिन  the  अंडा  most  प्रायः   खपत   by   इंसानो  is the  मुर्गा  egg , by a  चौड़ी  margin  .
अंडा  yolks and  पूरे   अंडे   स्टोर   significant   amounts   of  protein and choline , and are  widely   प्रयुक्त  in cookery .
due  to  उनके   प्रोटीन  content , the United States  विभाग   of   कृषि  (  यूएसडीए  )  categorizes   अंडे  as  meats  within the Food Guide Pyramid  .
Despite  the  nutritional value of  अंडे  , there are  कुछ   संभावित  health  मुद्दे   arising   इससे  egg quality ,  भंडार  , and individual  allergies   .
मुर्गियों   और  other  egg-laying   जीव   हैं  widely kept throughout  the   संसार   ,  and mass production  of  chicken  अंडे   is  a  वैश्विक  industry  .
In 2009 ,  an   अनुमानित  62.1  लाख  metric  टन   of   अंडे  were  उत्पादित  worldwide  इससे  a  कुल  laying  झुण्ड  of  लगभग  6.4  अरब  hens .
There  हैं  issues of regional  विभिन्नता  in  माँग   और  expectation , as  खूब   as   वर्तमान   debates   concerning   विधि   of  mass production , with the European Union  's  ban on  बैटरी   खेती  of chickens  .
Major League  सॉकर   (   mls  )  is  a  पेशेवर  soccer league representing  the  sport 's  उच्चतम  level in the  संयुक्त  States and Canada .
Sanctioned by the United  राज्य  Soccer Federation  (  U.S. Soccer )  ,  the  लीग  is composed of 19  टीमों  —  16  in the  u.S.   और   3  in  कनाडा  .
Seasons presently run from March to  दिसम्बर   ,   साथ   प्रत्येक   टोली  playing 34 games  in  the  नियमित  season .
Ten teams compete  in   the  postseason  mls   कप  Playoffs culminating in the championship game  ,   the  MLS Cup .
Major League Soccer  थी  founded in 1993 as part of  the  United States  '   बोली   to   मेजबान  the 1994  फीफा  World Cup .
The first season took place in  1996  beginning  साथ  ten teams .
बजाय  of  ऑपरेटिंग   as  an association  of  independently owned teams ,  mls  is a  सिंगल  entity  जहाँ  each  टोली  is  स्वामित्व  and controlled by  the  league 's  निवेशकों  .
The league  's   बंद  membership  makes  it one  of  the  संसार  's few  सॉकर   लीग   नहीं  using promotion  और   relegation  .
the  legality of cannabis varies  इससे  country to  देश   .
कब्ज़ा  of  कैनबिस   is  illegal  in   सबसे   देशों   और   रै   महरूम  since the beginning  of   फैली   कैनबिस  prohibition  in  the late  1930s  .
However  ,   अनेक  countries have  decriminalized  the  कब्ज़ा  of  छोटी   quantities   of   कैनबिस  , particularly in North America  ,   दक्षिण  America and Europe .
Furthermore  ,  possession is legal or  effectively   विधिक  in  the  Netherlands ,  उत्तर  Korea and  होता   be   in  the U.S.  राज्य  of Colorado and Washington  if   it  were not  लिये   संघीय  law , which governs persons in all  राज्य   .
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number  of  countries , including  कनाडा   ,  the  चेक  Republic and Israel .
जबकि  federal law in  the   संयुक्त  States  bans   सब   बिक्री   और  possession  of  cannabis , enforcement  varies   widely  at  the   राज्य  level and  कुछ  states have established medicinal marijuana programs  in   कि  contradict federal law ;  दो   राज्य   (   कोलोराडो  and Washington ) have repealed their  कानून  prohibiting  the  recreational use of  कैनबिस   और  replaced  उन्हें  with  a   नियामक  regime , also contrary to federal  statute  .
Some countries have laws that  हैं   नहीं  as  vigorously   prosecuted  as  अन्य  but , apart from  the   देशों  that offer access to medical  मारिजुआना  ,  सबसे  countries  have   विभिन्न   दंड   ranging  from  lenient  to very severe .
Some infractions  हैं   लिया  more seriously in some  देशों  than  अन्य   in   लिहाज़  to  the  cultivation  ,  use  ,   कब्ज़ा   or   ट्रांसफ़र   of   कैनबिस  for  recreational  use .
a   few  jurisdictions have  lessened  penalties  लिये  possession  of  small quantities of  कैनबिस   ,   बनाना  it punishable by confiscation and a fine , rather  than  imprisonment .
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory  उपचार   कार्यक्रम   लिये  young  or  frequent users ,  साथ  freedom from narcotic drugs as  the  goal  और   a   few  jurisdictions  परमिट   कैनबिस   उपयोग   लिये  medicinal  उद्देश्य  .
There are also  परिवर्तन  in a more  प्रतिबंधक  direction as  in   कनाडा  .
Drug tests  to   detect  cannabis are  increasingly   आम   in  many  देशों   और   have  resulted  in  jail  वाक्य  and people losing  उनके   कार्य  .
however  , simple  कब्ज़ा  can carry  long  jail sentences in some countries  ,   विशेषकर   in  parts  of  East Asia and Southeast  एशिया   जहाँ   the  sale of  कैनबिस   may   सीसे   to  a sentence  of  life in  थाना  or even execution .
In  cardiovascular  physiology , ejection fraction  (  EF ) represents  the  volumetric  भिन्न   of  blood pumped out of  the  ventricle ( heart )  साथ  each heart  ताल   or  cardiac cycle .
It  can  be  लागू  to  either   the  right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into  the  pulmonary  परिसंचरण  or the left  ventricle  which  ejects  via the aortic valve into  the  systemic  परिसंचरण  .
Imaging of the  physiology  of the mammalian heart  is  the art that allows  सार्थक  mathematical  अभिव्यक्ति   धमक   ef  .
noninvasive   हृदय   इमेजिंग  has become a  विश्वव्यापी  utility enabling study  of  cardiac  प्रदर्शन   reproducibly   और   inexpensively  .
सरलीकृत  , Ejection  भिन्न   is  a mathematical product  अनुमत   by  cardiac imaging .
As a mathematical  पद  , Ejection  भिन्न   is   an   एक्सटेंशन  of  the   कार्य   of  Adolph  फिक  in cardiac output  .
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography , Computed Tomography  ,  Magnetic Resonance Imaging and  muga  scanning have definitively allowed  clinically  relevant mathematics regarding Ischemia ,  जन्मजात  Heart Disease  और  Heart  विफलता  .
राज्य   रूट  14  (  SR 14  )  is a north–south state  राजमार्ग  in the  u.S.  state of California , largely in  the   mojave  Desert  .
The southern  portion   of  the highway  is   हस्ताक्षरित  as the Antelope Valley Freeway .
the   रूट   connects  Interstate  5  , or Golden  राज्य  Freeway , near Santa  clarita   और   साथ  U.S. Route 395  निकट   inyokern  .
Legislatively , the route extends  दक्षिण   of  I-5 to State Route  1   in  the Pacific Palisades area of Los Angeles  ,   however  the portion south of the junction with I-5  रै  not been constructed .
the   दक्षिणी  part of the constructed route is a  व्यस्त   commuter  freeway serving and connecting the communities  of   सांता   clarita   ,   palmdale   और   lancaster  with the  बाकी  of the Greater Los  एंजिल्स  area  .
The  उत्तरी   portion  ,  इससे  Vincent (  दक्षिण   of   palmdale   )  to Route  395  , is legislatively named  the   aerospace  Highway ,  as  the  राजमार्ग  serves Edwards Air  फ़ोर्स  Base , once  एक  of  the  primary  लैंडिंग  strips  लिये  NASA  's   स्पेस  Shuttle  .
This section is rural  ,  following the line between the hot  mojave   मरुस्थल   और   the   forming   सिएरा   नेवाडा  mountain  दायरा  .
सबसे  of  रूट   14  is loosely paralleled  by  a main line  of  the  दक्षिणी  Pacific Railroad  ,   प्रयुक्त  for  the   antelope   घाटी   लकीर  of the  metrolink  commuter rail system  as  well  as  a connection  between   लॉस  Angeles and the California  सेंट्रल   घाटी  via  tehachapi  Pass .
linked  with US 395 ,  इस  road  connects   लॉस  Angeles with such  स्थान  as  मैमथ   पहाड़  , Mono  झील  , Yosemite National Park and Reno , Nevada .
रूट   14  was part of U.S. Route  6   prior  to truncation in 1964 , when  u.S.  6 was  a  coast-to-coast  रूट   इससे   long  Beach to Provincetown ,  मैसाचुसेट्स   .
the   non-freeway  segment of  sr  14  इससे  Silver Queen Road north of  rosamond  to Mojave  is  known as  सिएरा   राजमार्ग  ,  as   is   the   बूढ़ा   रूटिंग  between Interstate 5  और   चांदी   महारानी   सड़क   जहाँ   sr   14  has been  स्थानांतरित  to a  नए  freeway alignment  .
Portions  of  Route 14  remain   हस्ताक्षरित   साथ  names associated  साथ  US 6  ,   सहित   मिडलैंड   ट्रेल  , Theodore Roosevelt  राजमार्ग  and  ग्रैंड   फौज   of  the  गणतंत्र  Highway .
This route is part  of  the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  Freeway and  एक्सप्रेसवे   प्रणाली   .
Blindness is the condition  of   lacking  visual perception due to physiological  or  neurological  कारकों   .
Various  तराजू  have  महरूम  developed to describe  the  extent  of  vision  घाटा  and  define  blindness  .
कुल   दृष्टिहीनता  is  the  complete lack of form and  विज़ुअल  light  बोध   और  is clinically  अंकित  as  nlp  , an abbreviation for  ``   no  light perception . ''
Blindness  is  frequently  प्रयुक्त  to describe severe visual impairment  साथ   दृष्टि  .
those   वर्णित   as  having only  लाइट  perception have no  अधिक  sight than  the   क्षमता   to  tell  लाइट  from  अंधेरा  and  the   सामान्य  direction  of  a light source .
To  determine   जिससे  people may  need   खास   सहायता  because of  उनके  visual  disabilities   ,  various governmental  jurisdictions  have formulated more complex definitions referred  to  as legal blindness .
In  उत्तर  America and most of  यूरोपीय   ,   विधिक   दृष्टिहीनता  is defined  as  visual acuity (  दृष्टि   )   of  20/200 (  6/60   )  or less in  the   बेहतर  eye with  बेहतरीन   सुधार  possible  .
This  अर्थात्   कि  a  legally   अँधा  individual  होता  have to stand from an  ऑब्जेक्ट  to  देखिए   it—with   corrective  lenses —with the  वही   उपाधि  of clarity as  a  normally  sighted  person could from .
In many  क्षेत्रों  , people with  औसत  acuity who nonetheless  have   a  visual field of less than 20 degrees  (  the norm being 180  डिग्री  ) are also classified as  होने  legally  अँधा  .
Approximately  टेन  percent  of  those deemed legally blind ,  by  any measure ,  have   no  vision .
The  बाकी   have  some  दृष्टि  , from light perception alone to relatively good acuity .
कम   दृष्टि   is  sometimes used  to  describe visual acuities from 20/70  to  20/200  .
By  the   10th   संशोधन   of  the WHO International  सांख्यिकीय  Classification of  रोगों  , Injuries and  कल्याणकारी   of   मौत   ,   कम   दृष्टि  is defined as visual  तीक्ष्णता  of less  than  20/60 (  6/18  )  ,  but  बराबर   to  or better  than  20/200  (   6/60  )  ,   or  corresponding visual  फ़ील्ड   घाटा   to   कम  than 20  डिग्री  ,  in   the  better eye with best  संभावित   सुधार  .
Blindness is defined  as   विज़ुअल   तीक्ष्णता  of less than 20/400  (  6/120  )  , or corresponding visual field loss to less  than  10  डिग्री  , in  the  better  नजर   साथ   बेहतरीन   संभावित  correction  .
अँधा   लोगों   साथ   undamaged  eyes may still  पंजीकरण  light non-visually for  the  purpose  of   circadian   entrainment  to the 24-hour light/dark cycle .
Light signals  लिये  this purpose  सफर   through  the  retinohypothalamic   ट्रैक्ट  and  हैं  not affected by optic nerve  क्षति  beyond where the  retinohypothalamic  tract exits .
Earl  सीमन्स  ( born December  18  ,  1970   )  ,  बेहतर  known by his  स्टेज  names DMX  और   अंधेरा   man   x   ,   is  an  अमरीकी  rapper and  कर्ता   .
in  1999  ,  DMX released his best-selling  एल्बम   ...   और   तब  There  थी  X  ,   जिससे   प्रदर्शित   the  hit single ``  पार्टी  Up  (   up   in   यहाँ   )  ``  .
he  has acted in films such  as  Belly ,  रोमियो   जरूर   die  , Exit  wounds  ,  पालना  2 The  संगीन  , and  पिछला   घंटा   .
in  2006  ,  he  स्ट्रक्चर   in   the   वास्तविकता  television series , which was  primarily  aired on  the   शर्त  cable television network  .
in  2003 ,  dmx  published  a   किताब   of  his memoirs entitled ,  e.a.r.l  . :  the  Autobiography of DMX  .
dmx  released  a  mixtape The  तौल   in   as  a prelude/promotion towards his  एल्बम  Undisputed  (  2012 ) .
DMX has  बेची  over 30 million  रिकॉर्ड  worldwide  ,  making him one of the best-selling  hip-hop  artists  of   सब   समय  .
Professional certification  ,  trade certification  ,  or  पेशेवर   नामांकन  , often  पुकारा  simply  प्रमाणन  or  योग्यता   ,   is  a designation earned  by   a  person to assure  योग्यता  to  perform  a  जॉब  or  कार्य  .
नहीं  all  certifications  that  उपयोग  post-nominal letters are an acknowledgement  of   शैक्षणिक  achievement , or an  एजेंसी   नियुक्त  to safeguard the  पब्लिक  interest .
Bugs Bunny  is   a  funny animal  कार्टून  character  ,  best remembered for  उसके   अभिनीत   भूमिकाएँ   in  the  looney  Tunes  और  Merrie  melodies  series of  नाट्य  short films  उत्पादित  by Warner Bros. during  the   सुनहरी  age of  अमरीकी  animation .
उसके  popularity  दौरान  this  era  led to his  बनने   a  corporate  शुभंकर   of  Warner  भाईs.  Entertainment  .
बग  is an  anthropomorphic   धूसर  hare or  खरगोश  who is  प्रसिद्ध  for his  flippant  ,  व्यक्तित्व  , a pronounced New York  एक्सेंट  , his portrayal as  a  trickster  ,  and  उसके   कैच  phrase  ``  Eh ...
What 's  up  , doc ? ''
(  प्रायः   कहा  while chewing a  गाजर  )  .
Bugs has appeared  in   अधिक  films than any  अन्य  cartoon  अक्षर  and is  the  ninth most portrayed film personality  in   the   संसार  .
According  to  his 1990  ``  biography  ''  Bugs Bunny  :   50  Years and  तभी   एक  Grey  हरे   ,  Bugs was born  on  July  27   ,  1940  in  Brooklyn ,  नई  York in a warren  अंतर्गत  Ebbets Field , home  of   the  Brooklyn  डॉजर्स  .
in  reality  ,  he  थी  brought  to   जीवन  by  the   animators  and staff of Leon Schlesinger Productions (  बाद  Warner Bros. Cartoons  )   :  including  टेक्स   एवेरी  ,  जो  directed Bugs '  जल्दी   निर्णायक  short  a  Wild  हरे   (  1940 ) ;  रॉबर्ट  McKimson ,  जो  created  बग  '  निर्णायक   अक्षर  design ;  और  Mel  blanc   ,  who  originated   the   आवाज़   of  Bugs .
The mucous  झिल्लियों  ( or mucosae or mucosas ; singular mucosa ) are linings  of  mostly endodermal origin , covered in  epithelium  ,  जिससे  are involved  in  absorption  और  secretion .
They  लकीर   कैविटी  that are exposed to the external environment and  आतंरिक   अंगों  .
वे  are at several places  संलग्न  with skin :  at   the  nostrils ,  the  lips of  the   मुँह   ,  the  eyelids  , the ears , the genital  क्षेत्रफल   ,  and  the  anus  .
The sticky ,  मोटा  fluid secreted  by   the  mucous  झिल्लियों   और  glands is termed  mucus  .
The term  श्लेष्मक  membrane refers  to   जहाँ   वे   हैं  found in  the  body  और   नहीं  every mucous membrane secretes  mucus  .
the  glans  clitoridis  , glans  शिश्न  ( head  of  the  शिश्न  ) , along  साथ  the  अंदर  of the foreskin and  the   clitoral  hood  ,  are  श्लेष्मक   झिल्लियों  .
the   urethra   is   भी   a   श्लेष्मक   झिल्ली  .
The  स्रावित  mucus traps the pathogens  in  the  देह   ,   preventing   कोई   further   क्रियाएँ  of diseases .
A master sergeant  is  the military rank for  a  senior non-commissioned officer in some  हथियारबंद   शक्तियां  .
Cake is  a  form of bread  or  bread-like  खाना   .
In its modern  फ़ॉर्म  ,  it   is   typically   a   मीठी  baked dessert .
in   इसके   oldest  forms  ,  cakes were  सामान्यतः   fried   breads   or  cheesecakes ,  और   सामान्यतः  had  a   डिस्क  shape  .
determining   whether  a  दिए  food  चाहिए  be classified as bread ,  केक  ,  or   पेस्ट्री   can  be difficult  .
Modern  केक  , especially layer  cakes  , normally contain  a   संयोजन   of   आटा  , sugar  ,   अंडे  , and  मक्खन  or oil  ,   साथ   कुछ  varieties also requiring  द्रव  (  typically  milk or  जल  )  और  leavening  एजेंटों   (  such  as  yeast or baking powder  )  .
Flavorful  संघटक  like fruit  purées  ,  nuts  , dried  or   candied  fruit  ,  or extracts are often added  ,  and  numerous  substitutions  लिये  the primary ingredients are  संभावित   .
cakes  are often  भर  with fruit preserves  or  dessert sauces ( like  पेस्ट्री  cream )  ,   आइस्ड  with buttercream or other icings  ,  and  सजा   साथ  marzipan  ,   piped  borders  or  candied fruit .
केक  is  प्रायः  the dessert  of   चुनाव  for meals at  ceremonial  occasions , particularly  विवाह   ,  anniversaries ,  और  birthdays .
There are  अनगिनत  cake recipes ; some are  bread-like  ,  कुछ  rich  और  elaborate ,  और   अनेक   हैं  centuries  बूढ़ा   .
केक   बनाना  is no longer  a   जटिल   कार्यविधि   ;  while  at   एक   समय  considerable  मजदूर  went  into  cake  बनाना   (  particularly  the  whisking of egg foams ) , baking  उपकरण  and directions have  महरूम   सरलीकृत   so   कि  even the most  amateur   कुक   may  bake a cake  .
Tamara Faye LaValley Bakker  messner   (  March 7 , 1942 –  जुलाई  20 , 2007 )  थी  an  अमरीकी  Christian  सिंगर   ,   इंजीलवादी   ,   उद्योगों  , author  ,   बात  show  मेजबान  ,  और   टेलीविज़न  personality .
She was married from 1961  to  1992 to televangelist ,  और   बाद  convicted felon  ,  Jim  bakker  .
She  co-hosted   साथ  him on  the   ptl  Club (  1976–1987   )  .
She  थी   a  participant in  the  2004 season  of  the reality show The Surreal Life .
Cambria  is  a village in Columbia County ,  विस्कॉन्सिन  , United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 767 at the  2010   जनसांख्यिकी  .
it  is part  of   the   मैडिसन   महानगर  Statistical Area  .
Public policy is the  principled  guide to action taken by  the  administrative executive branches of the  राज्य   साथ   लिहाज़   to  a class  of   मुद्दे   in   a  manner consistent with  विधि  and  संस्थागत  customs .
In general ,  the   न्यास  is  the  pertinent national and substantial constitutional  विधि  and implementing  विधान   ऐसे   as  the US Federal code .
further  substrates  शामिल  both  न्यायिक  interpretations  और  regulations which are  generally   प्राधिकृत  by legislation  .
Other scholars define  it   as  a system of ``  पाठ्यक्रम   of   कार्रवाई   ,  regulatory measures ,  कानून   ,  and funding  प्राथमिकताएं   concerning  a  दिए  topic promulgated by  a  governmental entity  or   इसके   प्रतिनिधि  . ''
Public policy  is  commonly  समाविष्ट  `` in  constitutions  ,  विधान  acts ,  और  judicial  निर्णय   .  ''
in   the   संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  इस   अवधारणा  refers not only  to  the  परिणाम  of policies ,  लकिन  more broadly  to   the   decision-making   और  analysis of governmental  निर्णय  .
as   an   अकादमिक   अनुशासन  , public  नीति  is  पढ़ाई  by professors  और  students  at   पब्लिक  policy schools of  प्रमुख  universities throughout the  देश   .
the   u.S.  professional association of public  नीति  practitioners , researchers , scholars ,  और  students  is  the Association for  पब्लिक  Policy  विश्लेषण   और   प्रबन्धन   .
Digestion is the mechanical and  रासायनिक   विश्लेषण   of  food  into  smaller components that are more  easily   अवशोषित   into  a blood stream , for  उदाहरण   .
Digestion is  a  form  of  catabolism  :  a breakdown of  विशाल  food molecules to  छोटी  ones .
जब  food  enters   the   मुँह   ,  digestion of the food starts by the  कार्रवाई   of  mastication , a  रूप  of mechanical  पाचन  ,  और   the   wetting   सम्पर्क  of saliva  .
लार  ,  a   द्रव   स्रावित  by the salivary glands  ,  contains salivary  amylase  , an enzyme  जिससे  starts the digestion  of   मंड   in   the  food .
After undergoing mastication and  मंड   पाचन  , the  खाना  will  be  in  the  form of  a  small  ,   गोलाकार  slurry mass called a bolus .
It will then  सफर  down the  ग्रासनाल  and  into  the  पेट  by the action  of  peristalsis .
Gastric juice  in  the stomach starts  प्रोटीन  digestion .
gastric   रस   मुख्यतः  contains hydrochloric  एसिड   और  pepsin  .
as  these two chemicals may damage the stomach wall , mucus is  स्रावित   by  the stomach  ,  providing a  slimy   परत   कि  acts as  a   शील्ड   विरूद्ध  the  damaging  effects  of   the   रसायन   .
At  the   वही  time protein digestion is occurring , mechanical mixing  occurs  by  peristalsis   ,  which  हैं   लहरें  of muscular contractions that move  साथ   the  stomach  वॉल   .
इस   allows  the  द्रव्यमान  of food to  further  mix with the digestive  एंजाइमों  .
बाद  some time  (   typically  an hour or two in humans , 4–6  घंटों  in  कुत्तो  ,  somewhat   shorter  duration in house cats  )  ,  the  resulting  मोटा  liquid is called  chyme  .
जब  the  pyloric  sphincter  वाल्व   opens  ,  chyme   enters   the  duodenum  जहाँ   it  mixes  साथ   digestive   एंजाइमों   इससे   the  pancreas  ,   और  then passes  through  the small  आंत   ,   in   जिससे  digestion continues  .
When the chyme  is  fully  पचता  , it is absorbed  into  the blood .
95  %  of  अवशोषण  of  nutrients  occurs in the  छोटी  intestine .
Water and  खनिज   हैं  reabsorbed back  into  the  रक्त  in  the   कोलन  (  विशाल  intestine )  जहाँ   the  pH is slightly acidic  परिचय   5.6  ~  6.9   .
Some  विटामिन   ,   ऐसे   as  biotin and vitamin  k  ( K2MK7  )  produced by bacteria  in  the  कोलन  are also absorbed into the blood in  the  colon .
Waste material  is  eliminated  इससे  the  मलाशय   दौरान  defecation  .
हेनरी  VIII ( 28  जून   1491   –   28  January  1547  )  थी  king of  इंग्लैण्ड  from  21   अप्रैल  1509 until his death .
He  थी   रब   ,  and  बाद  king  ,   of   आयरलैंड  ,  as  well as  continuing  the nominal  अर्जी  by  the  English  monarchs  to  the  Kingdom  of   फ़्रांस   .
Henry was  the  second  monarch  of the  ट्यूडर  dynasty , succeeding his father ,  हेनरी  VII  .
Besides  उसके  six marriages  ,   हेनरी   viii  is  ज्ञात  for  उसके  role in  the  separation  of  the Church of  इंग्लैण्ड  from  the  Roman Catholic Church  .
Henry  's   struggles  with  रोम  led to the  विरह  of  the  Church  of  England from papal  प्राधिकार  ,  the   विच्छेद   of   the   monasteries  ,  और   उसके  own  स्थापना  as  the  Supreme Head  of  the  गिरिजाघर  of  इंग्लैण्ड  .
Yet he remained  a  believer  in  core Catholic  theological   शिक्षाओं  , even after his excommunication  इससे  the  रोमन  Catholic Church  .
Henry  oversaw  the  विधिक   संघ  of England and  वेल्स  with  the   कानून   in  Wales Acts 1535 and 1542  .
In  1513   ,   the  new  किंग  allied  साथ   the  Holy Roman Emperor , Maximillian  i  , and  invaded   फ़्रांस  in  1513   साथ   a   विशाल   ,  well-equipped army  ,  but achieved  छोटी   at  a  considerable   वित्तीय  cost .
Maximillian , for his  भाग  ,  प्रयुक्त  the English  आक्रमण   to   उसके   अपना   ends  ,  और  this  prejudiced  England  's   क्षमता   to  defeat the French  .
This  foray   होता   prove  the  प्रारंभ  of an obsession for  हेनरी  , who invaded  again  in 1544  .
This time  ,  Henry  's   शक्तियां  captured  the  important city of Boulogne  ,   लकिन  again the  पावन   रोमन  Emperor ,  चार्ल्स  V  ,  supported  हेनरी   तभी   as   long   as  he  needed  to and  इंग्लैण्ड  ,  strained   by   the   विशाल  cost of the  युद्ध   ,   ransomed  the city  वापस   लिये  peace  .
उसके   contemporaries  considered Henry  in  his  प्रधान  to be  an   आकर्षक   ,   शिक्षित   और  accomplished  किंग  , and he has been  वर्णित  as  ``  one  of  the  सबसे   charismatic  rulers to  बैठना  on the  अंग्रेज़ी  throne  ''   .
Besides ruling with  निरपेक्ष  power ,  he  also engaged himself as an author  और   composer   .
His  ख्वाहिश  to  provide  England  साथ   a  male heir  –  which stemmed partly  इससे  personal  वैनिटी  and partly because  he   believed   a   बेटी  would be unable  to  consolidate the  ट्यूडर   राजवंश   और  the fragile peace that  existed   following  the  युद्धों   of  the Roses – led to  the   दो  things  लिये  which  हेनरी  is  सबसे  remembered  :   उसके   छह  marriages  और   the  English  reformation   .
हेनरी   became  morbidly  मोटे  and his health suffered  ,  contributing  to   उसके   मौत  in 1547 .
He is frequently characterised  in  his later life  as  a lustful , egotistical ,  हर्ष   ,   और   असुरक्षित  king .
Bongos  (   स्पेनी   :  bongó  )  are an  afro-cuban   percussion   यंत्र   .
The drums are  of  different  आकार  : the larger drum  is   पुकारा  in Spanish  the  hembra  (  female  )  and  the  smaller the macho (  पुरूष  ) .
They are membranophones  ,   or  instruments that create  ध्वनि   by   a   स्पंदन  of a  stretched  membrane .
Different religious  समूह  include  अलग   किताबे  in their  biblical  canons  ,   in  varying orders ,  और   sometimes  divide  or  combine books  ,  or  चरितार्थ   अतिरिक्त  material  into   canonical  books .
ईसाई  Bibles range  इससे  the sixty-six  किताबे  of the  प्रोटोस्टेंट   canon  to the eighty-one books  of   the  Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church canon  .
the  Hebrew Bible  ,   or   tanakh  ,  contains  twenty-four books  विभाजित   into   तीन  parts  ;  the five books of the  तोरा  ( `` teaching  ''  or ``  विधि  '' )  ,  the  nevi'im   (  ``  नबियों   ''   )  ,  और  the  ketuvim   (   ``  writings  ''   )   .
the   पहला   भाग  of Christian Bibles is the Old  वसीयत  , which  contains   ,  at minimum ,  the   twenty-four  books of  the  Hebrew  बाइबल   विभाजित   into   thirty-nine  books and  ordered  differently  इससे   the  Hebrew  बाइबल   .
The Catholic  गिरिजाघर   और  Eastern  ईसाई  churches also  थाम  certain  deuterocanonical  books and passages  to  be part of the Old Testament  canon  .
The second part  is   the  New  वसीयत   ,  containing  twenty-seven  books ; the  चार   canonical  gospels  ,  Acts of the  रसूलों   ,   twenty-one   epistles  or letters  और  the Book  of   रहस्योद्घाटन  .
The Eastern Orthodox , Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches may have  नाबालिग  differences  in  their  सूचियाँ  of  स्वीकृत  books .
the  list given  यहाँ  for these  चर्च  is  the  most  समावेशी  :  if  at least one  पूर्वी  church accepts the  किताब  it  is  included  यहाँ  .
The national  ध्वज  of the  संयुक्त  States of America  ,  often simply referred to  as   the  American flag , consists of thirteen  बराबर   आड़ा  stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white , with  a  blue rectangle  in  the canton  (  referred  to  specifically  as   the   ``  union '' )  bearing  fifty small ,  श्वेत  ,  five-pointed  stars  arranged   in   नौ  offset horizontal rows of six stars  (  top and bottom ) alternating  साथ   पंक्ति  of  पाँच  stars  .
the  50  सितारों  on the  ध्वज  represent  the  50 states of the  संयुक्त  States  of  America and  the   13  stripes represent  the  thirteen British colonies that  घोषित  independence  इससे   the  Kingdom  of  Great  ब्रिटेन  and became the first states in  the   संघ   .
nicknames  for the  ध्वज  include the ``  सितारों  and  धारियाँ  '' ,  ``  Old  महिमा  `` ,  और  `` The  star-spangled  Banner .  ''
Dred Scott  v.  Sandford ,  ,  also  ज्ञात  as the Dred Scott Decision  ,  was a  लैंडमार्क   निर्णय  by  the  U.S. Supreme Court  .
It made two  प्रमुख  rulings  .
The  पहला  ruling  थी  that African-Americans were  नहीं   नागरिकों  , and  इसलिए  had no standing  to  sue in  संघीय  court .
The second ruling was that the federal government had no power to regulate slavery in  कोई  territory acquired subsequent  to  the creation  of  the United  राज्य  .
दिए  the first ruling , most  विद्वानों   और  many contemporary  राजनैतिक   आंकड़े   (   सहित   the   नेतृत्व   of  the  then-new   रिपब्लिकन  Party ) considered that  the  second ruling  थी  not  बाइंडिंग  precedent , but  mere   कहावत  .
The rationale of the Supreme Court  regarding   the  jurisdictional ruling  implied   कि   लोगों   of  African  descent   (  both  स्लेव   और   फ़्री  )  यहूद   नहीं   सुरक्षित  by the  संविधान   और  were not U.S.  नागरिकों   .
Since  ड्योढ़ी  of the 14th  amendment   to  the U.S.  संविधान   ,   दोनो  rulings are superseded and no  longer   मान्य  precedent .
nonetheless  , the case  retains  historical  significance  as it is widely  regarded  as the worst  निर्णय  ever  बना  by  the  Supreme  अदालत   .
the  opinion of  the  court  ,  written  by   मुख्य   इंसाफ  Roger B.  taney   ,  stirred debate  .
The decision  थी  7–2 , and  प्रत्येक  Justice  besides   taney  wrote  a  separate concurrence  or  dissent .
For  the  first  समय  since Marbury v. Madison  ,  the  अदालत   आयोजित  an Act  of  Congress  to   be  unconstitutional  .
Dred  स्कॉट  ,  an  African-American slave  ,  had asked a United States  सर्किट  Court to  पुरस्कार   उसे  his  स्वतंत्रता  because  he   और  his master  था  resided  in   a   राज्य  ( Illinois ) and a  territory   (  Wisconsin Territory  )  where slavery had  महरूम   बैन   .
Chief  इंसाफ  Roger  taney  , writing  लिये  the court  ,  held  कि  Scott  ,  as a person  of  African ancestry ,  थी   नहीं  a citizen of the United States and therefore had no right  to  sue in federal  अदालत  .
इस   पकड़कर   थी  contrary to  the  practice  of   numerous  states at the time ,  विशेषकर   फ़्री  states  ,  where  फ़्री  blacks did  in  fact  आनंद   the   अधिकारों   of  citizens  ,  such  as  the right to vote and hold  पब्लिक  office  .
in  what is  sometimes  considered  mere   obiter  dictum  ,  the Court  गई  on  to  hold that Congress had no  प्राधिकार   to   prohibit  slavery in  संघीय   territories  because slaves  हैं  personal  प्रॉपर्टी   और  the Fifth Amendment to the  संविधान   protects  property owners against deprivation of their  प्रॉपर्टी   बगैर   due  process  of  law  .
in  reaching this decision ,  taney  had hoped to  settle   the  growing controversy surrounding slavery in  the  United  राज्य   ,  but it  था  the  विपरीत   प्रभाव   .
the  decision was  fiercely   debated   आरपार   the  country ,  as  perhaps  बेहतरीन   सरंचनाओं  by the Lincoln–Douglas debates of 1858  .
Abraham  lincoln  , the second-ever  रिपब्लिकन  nominee  लिये  President ,  थी   समर्थ   to   जीत  the presidential election in 1860  ;  the  stopping  of the further  विस्तार  of  गुलामी  was a key  रिपब्लिकन   पार्टी  plank .
the  decision played  an  important  भूमिका   in   the  timing  of   राज्य   secession  and  the  Civil War  ,  although it  is  extreme  to   कह  the decision  ``  caused  ''  the war  .
the   निर्णय   is  acknowledged  लिये  the influential role it  निभाई  in altering  the  national  राजनैतिक  landscape  :  it is credited  साथ   शुभारंभ  Abraham Lincoln’s national  राजनैतिक   करियर  and ultimately allowing for his  चुनाव  .
Although  the  Supreme Court has never explicitly overruled  the  Dred  स्कॉट  case , the Court  stated   in  the  slaughter-house   मामले  that  at  least one part  of  it  था   already  been overruled  by   the  Fourteenth  amendment   in  1868 , which  begins   by   stating  ,  ``   सब  persons born or  देशीयकृत   in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   ,  and subject  to  the jurisdiction thereof  ,   हैं  citizens  of  the United  राज्य  and  of  the State wherein they  reside  .  ''
To  जिससे  the  अदालत  noted:
The  पहला  observation  we   have   to  make on this  clause   is  ,  कि  it puts  at  rest both  the  questions which we  stated   to   have  been the  विषय   of   मतभेद  of opinion .
it   declares  that persons may be citizens  of   the   संयुक्त   राज्य  without  लिहाज़   to   उनके   नागरिकता   of   a   particular  State , and  it   overturns  the Dred  स्कॉट   निर्णय   by  making  सब   व्यक्तियों   born  within the United  राज्य   और  subject  to   इसके   क्षेत्राधिकार   नागरिकों  of  the  United States .
वहीँ  are dozens of  पड़ोस  in Columbus  ,   ओहियो   .
Some are hard to  define   ,   as   वे  encompass  विशाल   क्षेत्रों  developed at  अलग   times—often  with sub-neighborhoods within them .
सीमायें  can also change based on popular understanding of the  क्षेत्रफल   ,   as  well  as   the  whims of the residents .
This article uses  आंकड़ा  from  the   datasourcecolumbus  Web site  ,   spotcrime.com  , HelloColumbus.com  ,   as   खूब   as  the  विभिन्न   कोलंबस   क्षेत्रफल  Commissions to define the various areas  .
Excerpts and border information  हैं  drawn  सीधे   इससे  the  प्रमुख   आलेख  .
a   जीवविज्ञानी   is  a scientist  जो  studies living  जीवों  and their relationship to their environment .
Biologists  शामिल   in   मौलिक  research  attempt   to   discover  underlying  mechanisms  that govern how  जीवों  work  .
biologists  involved  in  applied research  attempt  to develop or improve medical , industrial or  agricultural  processes .
martinus  Willem  beijerinck   ,  a  वनस्पतिशास्त्री  and microbiologist
आधार   कूद  from  a   चट्टान   in  a  wingsuit  .
आधार  jumping  ,  also  sometimes   लिखा   as  B.A.S.E .  कूद   ,  is an activity where  भागीदार  jump  इससे  fixed objects  और   उपयोग  a parachute  to   ब्रेक  their fall .
``  आधार  ''  is  an acronym  कि  stands  लिये  four categories of  फिक्स्ड  objects from which one  can  jump  :   इमारतें  ,  एन्टेना  ,  spans   (  bridges  )   ,   और  earth ( cliffs  )  .
The British Shorthair is  a  domesticated cat  जिनकी   सुविधाएँ  make it a popular breed  in  cat  shows   .
it  has been the most popular breed  of  cat  पंजीकृत  by the  uk  's Governing  परिषद  of the Cat  फैंसी   (   gccf   )   चूंकि  2001 ,  जब  it  overtook  the  पारसी  breed  .
the  USA Basketball Men  's  Senior National Team , commonly  ज्ञात  as the United  राज्य   मेन   's   नेशनल   बास्केट  team  ,  represents the United States of America in  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  men  's   बास्केट   .
The USA is the most  कामयाब   टोली  in international competition , winning  medals  in  सब   सत्रह   ओलम्पिक   tournaments  it has entered ,  coming  away with  चौदह   golds   .
Two  of  its gold medal-winning squads were inducted  to  the Naismith Memorial Basketball  हॉल  of Fame as teams in August 2010—the 1960  टोली   ,   जिससे   प्रदर्शित  six Hall of Famers  (  4  खिलाड़ी   ,  2 coaches ) , and the 1992 `` Dream Team ''  ,   featuring   14  Hall  of  Famers  (   11  players ,  3  coaches )  .
the  United States is currently ranked  पहला  in the FIBA  संसार  Rankings .
Traditionally composed  of  amateur players  ,  a 1989 rule change  by   fiba  allowed  यूएसए   बास्केट   to  field  टीमों  with  पेशेवर  players  .
the   पहला  such  टोली  ,  ज्ञात   as  the `` Dream  टोली   ''  , won the gold  पदक   at  the  1992  Summer Olympics in  बार्सिलोना   ,   स्पेन   ,  playing  in   the   फाइनल   विरूद्ध   क्रोएशिया  .
With  the  introduction of professionals , the  टोली  was  समर्थ   to  spark  a  second run of  दबदबा  after  capturing   तभी   a  bronze  पदक   in  1988 .
A team  of  professional  खिलाड़ी   competed   at  the 1994  fiba   संसार  Championship , finishing  पहला  .
in  1996 , 2000 , 2008  ,   और   2012   the  USA  again  captured gold  medals  .
Facing increased competition ,  the   यूएसए  failed to win a medal at  the  2002 FIBA World Championship  ,  finishing sixth  .
The  2004  Summer Olympic  टोली  lost  तीन  games on  इसके  way  to   a  bronze  पदक  , a record that represented  अधिक  losses in  a   सिंगल  year  than   the  country 's  ओलम्पिक  teams had suffered in all  पिछला  Olympiads combined  .
Determined  to  put an  समाप्त   to  these  असफलताओं   ,  USA Basketball initiated a long-term project aimed  at  creating  बेहतर  , more  cohesive  teams .
The USA  जीती  its first  सात  games  at   the  2006 FIBA  संसार   चैंपियनशिप   in   जापानी  before losing  विरूद्ध   यूनानियों   in  the semi-finals  ,   समाप्ति  the  प्रतियोगिता   साथ  the bronze medal .
The  यूएसए  won  सुनहरा   दो  years later , though , at  the  2008  गर्मियाँ  Olympics with  a  dominant performance .
This success  थी  followed up at the 2010 FIBA World  चैंपियनशिप  , where despite  क्षेत्ररक्षण   a  roster  featuring  no  खिलाड़ी   इससे  the  2008  Olympic team  ,  the  यूएसए   किया  not  खोना   a  single  खेल  en route  to  defeating host Turkey for the  सुनहरा  medal .
the   यूएसए   जारी  this streak of  दबदबा   by  going undefeated and capturing  सुनहरा  once  अधिक  at  the   2012  Summer Olympics .
The  स्टीलर्स  Super Bowl XL ring
Joe  theismann   's   सुपर  Bowl Ring ( right  )
The  सुपर  Bowl  रिंग  is  an   पुरस्कार  in the  नेशनल  Football League given  to  the  विजेता  of  the  league  's  annual  संसार   चैंपियनशिप  game , the Super Bowl .
Since  तभी  one Vince  लोम्बार्डी   ट्रॉफी   is  awarded to the  टोली  (  स्वामित्व  ) itself ,  the  Super  कटोरी   रिंग   offers  a collectible memento  लिये   the  actual  खिलाड़ी  and  टोली   सदस्यों   to   रखना  for themselves to symbolize  the  victory .
Image showing the six most common speleothems with  लेबल्स  .
to  view  लेबल्स   .
The Witch  's  Finger in  the   carlsbad  Caverns
A  stalagmite   (  or ;  इससे  the Greek σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês , from  σταλαγμίας  -  stalagmias  , `` dropping , trickling  ''  )  is   a  type  of   speleothem   कि   उदय  from the  मंजिल  of a limestone cave  due  to the dripping of  mineralized   समाधान  and the deposition  of   कैल्सियम  carbonate .
इस  stalagmite formation  occurs  only under  निश्चित  pH  शर्तें   भीतर   the  underground  cavern  .
the  corresponding formation  on   the  ceiling of a  गुफा   is  known as  a  stalactite .
if   ये   formations  grow together  ,   the  result is known as a column .
the   हॉल  of Giants  in  the Carlsbad  caverns
Stalagmites should normally not  be  touched  ,   चूंकि  the rock buildup is  formed  by minerals precipitating out  of  the  जल   समाधान  onto  the   बूढ़ा   सतह  ;  स्किन  oils can alter the surface  जहाँ   the  mineral  जल  will  चिपकी   ,  thus  affecting   the   विकास  of the formation .
oils  and dirt from  इंसान   सम्पर्क  can also stain the formation  और  change its  रंग  permanently .
Similar structures can also form in  लावा   tubes  , associated with some  प्रकार  of lavacicles ,  हालांकि  the  यांत्रिकी  of  गठन  is very different  .
Stalactites and  stalagmites   can  also  रूप   on  concrete ceilings and floors , although they form  much   अधिक  rapidly  वहीँ  than  in   the  natural cave  पर्यावरण   .
The  largest  stalagmite in  the  world  is   ऊँची  and  is  located  in   the   गुफा   of   cueva   मार्टिन  Infierno  ,  Cuba .
In  the  Zagros  kyu   of  south  इरान  , approximately  इससे   the   प्राचीन  city of Bishapur , in  the  Shapur cave on the fourth of  पाँच   बरामदा  stands  the  3rd century CE  प्रतिमा   of  Shapur I  ,   दूसरी  ruler  of  the Sassanid Empire .
The  प्रतिमा  , carved from  एक  stalagmite , is  nearly   ऊँची   .
How I Met Your Mother is  an  American sitcom  कि  premiered on CBS on September 19  ,  2005  .
the  show was  निर्मित  by Craig Thomas  और   कार्टर  Bays .
कैसा  I Met  अपना   माँ  is  framed  by the  साल  2030  ,  when Ted  mosby  ( voiced by Bob Saget  )   gathers  his  बेटी  (  lyndsy   fonseca  )  और   बेटे  ( David Henrie ) to tell them the story of how  he  met their mother  .
We flashback to where it  begins  in  2005  with Ted  mosby  ( Josh Radnor ) as  a  single  ,  27-year-old  वास्तु  living with his two  बेहतरीन  friends from  wesleyan  University , Marshall Eriksen (  जेसन  Segel ) , a  विधि  student , and Lily Aldrin  (  Alyson  हनिंगन  ) , a kindergarten  टीचर  , who have  महरूम  dating for almost nine years when Marshall proposes  .
उनके   सगाई  causes Ted  to   सोचो   परिचय  finding  उसके  own soul  mate   ,  much to the disgust  of   उसके  friend Barney Stinson  (  Neil Patrick Harris  )   ,   a  womanizer  साथ   an  unnamed corporate  जॉब   .
और  thus , Ted begins  उसके  search  लिये  his perfect  mate  ,  और  meets  रोबिन  Scherbatsky  (  Cobie Smulders ) , whom he  भी   befriends  .
The  100th  episode of  कैसा   i  Met  अपना   माँ   aired   on  January 11  ,  2010 .
On  दिसम्बर   21   ,   2012  ,  the   श्रेणी  was  नवीनीकृत  for a ninth season .
On January 30 , 2013 , it was  घोषित  that Season 9 will be  इसके  final season .
Gringo ( , , )  is  a slang Spanish  और   पुर्तगाली  word used in Ibero-America , to  denote  foreigners  ,  often  इससे   the  United  राज्य  .
the  term  can  be applied to someone who  is  actually a foreigner , or  it   can  denote a  दमदार   संघ  or  सम्मिलन   into   विदेशी  ( particularly  us  ) society and  संस्कृति   .
In Spanish it does not have a negative connotation .
रोजर  Axtell ,  a   सफर   तहज़ीब  expert , notes  कि  ``  [  t ] he word gringo  is   नहीं   necessarily   a  bad word .
It is slang  लकिन  is  अपमानजनक   तभी  in its use and context .  ''
The  शब्द   थी  used in  स्पेन   long  before  it  crossed  the  Atlantic to  denote   विदेशी  , non-native  अध्यक्षों  of Spanish .
the  great white  शार्क   ,  Carcharodon carcharias , also known as the  ग्रेट  white , white pointer ,  श्वेत   शार्क  ,  or  white  मौत   ,   is   a   प्रजाति  of  विशाल   lamniform  shark  जिससे   can  be found in the coastal surface waters of all  the  major  महासागर   .
The great white shark is mainly  ज्ञात   लिये  its size  ,   साथ   the  largest individuals  ज्ञात  to have approached or exceeded in  लंबाई   ,   और  in  वज़न  .
This shark reaches its  परिपक्वता  around 15 years  of   आयु   और  can have a  जीवन   स्पैन  of over 30  सालो   .
The great  श्वेत   शार्क   is   arguably   the   संसार  's largest known extant  macropredatory  fish ,  और   is   एक   of  the primary predators of marine  स्तनधारियों  .
It  is  also  ज्ञात   to   शिकार  upon  a   किस्में  of  अन्य  marine  पशु   ,  including fish and  seabirds   .
It  is   the  only known  surviving  species of  इसके   genus  Carcharodon , and  is  ranked  पहला   in   having  the most attacks on  इंसानो   .
The  आईयूसीएन  list the great  श्वेत  shark  as  a vulnerable species , while it is  शामिल  in Appendix  ii   of   cites   .
The bestselling novel Jaws by  पीटर  Benchley  और   the  subsequent blockbuster  फिल्मी  by  स्टीवन   स्पिलबर्ग  depicted  the  great white shark as  a  `` ferocious man eater  ``  .
in   वास्तविकता   ,   इंसानो   हैं  not the preferred prey of the  ग्रेट  white shark .
the  United  राज्य  Armed Forces  हैं   the   सैन्य  forces  of   the  United States of  अमेरिका   .
वे   consist   of  the  फौज   ,   नेवी  , Marine  corps  ,  एयर   फ़ोर्स  , and Coast  गार्ड   .
The U.S.  रै  a  दमदार  tradition of civilian  कंट्रोल  of  the   सैन्य  .
The  अध्यक्ष   is   the  military 's  overall  head , and helps form military  नीति  with  the  U.S.  विभाग  of Defense ( DoD )  ,   a  federal  कार्यपालिका  department ,  एक्टिंग   as   the  principal  अंग  by which military policy is  carried  out  .
The  dod  is headed  by  the Secretary of  रक्षा  ,  जो   is  a civilian and Cabinet member .
the  Defense  सचिव  is second in the military 's  कड़ी  of  कमांड  ,  बस  below the President  ,  and serves  as   the  principal  सहायक  to the President  in   सब  DoD-related  matters  .
To coordinate military action with  कूटनीति   ,  the  अध्यक्ष  has an advisory  नेशनल  Security  परिषद  headed by a National  सुरक्षा  Advisor .
Both the  अध्यक्ष   और  Secretary  of   रक्षा  are advised by a  seven-member   संयुक्त   chiefs   of  Staff , which includes  the  head of each  of   the  Defense Department  's  service  शाखाओं  as  खूब   as  the  मुख्य  of the National Guard  ब्यूरो   .
Leadership is provided  by  the Chairman of the  संयुक्त   chiefs  of  स्टाफ  and  the   वाइस  Chairman  of  the  संयुक्त  Chiefs of  स्टाफ  .
the  Commandant of  the   coast   गार्ड   is   नहीं  a member of  the  Joint  chiefs   of   स्टाफ  .
सब   of  the  शाखाओं   कार्य   साथ  during operations  और   संयुक्त   मिशन   ,   अंतर्गत   the  Unified Combatant Commands  ,  under  the  authority of the Secretary of Defense with  the   एक्सेप्शन   of   the  Coast  गार्ड   .
The Coast  गार्ड   जलप्रपात  under the  प्रशासन   of  the  विभाग   of  Homeland  सुरक्षा  and receives its  operational  orders  इससे   the  Secretary of  मातृभूमि  Security .
the   coast   गार्ड  may be transferred to  the  Department  of   the  Navy  by  the  अध्यक्ष  or Congress  दौरान  a time of war .
All five armed  सेवाएं   हैं   among   the   सात  uniformed  सेवाएं   of   the  United  राज्य  ;  the  others are the  u.S.  Public Health Service  commissioned   corps   और  the  नेशनल  Oceanic and  वायुमंडलीय   प्रशासन   commissioned   corps  .
From  the  time  of  its  inception  , the military  निभाई   a   निर्णायक  role in the  इतिहास   of  the  संयुक्त  States  .
A sense of  नेशनल  unity  और  identity  थी  forged as  a   परिणाम   of   विजय  in  the   पहला  Barbary War and the  दूसरी  Barbary War  .
Even so ,  the   संस्थापकों  were suspicious  of  a permanent military  फ़ोर्स  and not  जबतक   the   outbreak  of  संसार  War II  किया   a  large  खड़ा  army become officially established .
The National  सुरक्षा  Act of 1947 , adopted following World  युद्ध   ii   और  during  the  Cold War 's  onset   ,  created the modern  u.S.  military  फ्रेमवर्क   ;   the  Act merged previously  cabinet-level  Department of War and the Department  of   the   नेवी  into  the  National Military Establishment  (   renamed   the  Department of Defense  in  1949 )  ,  headed by  the   सचिव  of  रक्षा   ;  and  निर्मित   the  Department of the Air Force and National Security Council .
The U.S.  सैन्य  is  एक  of  the  largest  militaries   in   शर्तें  of number of personnel  .
It  draws  its  जनशक्ति  from a  विशाल  pool of  सशुल्क   स्वयंसेवक   ;  although conscription  रै  been used in the past in  विभिन्न   टाइम्स  of  दोनो   युद्ध  and  सलाम  ,  it   रै  not been used since 1972 .
as  of 2013 , the U.S. spends about $  554.2  billion annually  to  fund its  सैन्य  forces , and appropriates approximately $  88.5   अरब   to   निधि   विदेशी   आकस्मिकता  Operations .
Put together ,  the   u.S.  constitutes roughly  43  percent  of  the  संसार   's   सैन्य  expenditures .
the  U.S. Armed Forces  as   a  whole  possess  large  quantities   of   उन्नत  and powerful equipment , along with  फैली  placement of forces around  the  world , giving  उन्हें   significant  capabilities in  दोनो  defense and power projection  .
Freedom  of  speech  is  the political  सही   to  communicate one  's   राय   और  ideas  using  one 's body  और   प्रॉपर्टी  to anyone who is  willing  to  प्राप्त   उन्हें  .
The term  स्वतंत्रता  of  अभिव्यक्ति  is sometimes used  synonymously  , but  शामिल  any act of seeking ,  receiving   और  imparting  सूचना  or ideas , regardless of the  मीडियम  used  .
in   अभ्यास   ,  the  सही  to freedom of speech  is   नहीं  absolute  in   कोई  country  और   the  right  is   commonly   विषय  to limitations , as  साथ   मानहानि  , slander ,  obscenity  , sedition  (  including , for example  inciting  ethnic hatred ) ,  कापीराइट  violation , revelation of information that is  वर्गीकृत   or  otherwise  .
The  सही   to   स्वतंत्रता  of expression is recognized as  a  human right  अंतर्गत   आलेख  19  of   the   सार्वभौमिक  Declaration of  इंसान   अधिकारों  and recognized in  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   इंसान  rights  विधि   in  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Covenant on Civil  और   राजनैतिक   अधिकारों   (   iccpr  ) .
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone  shall   have  the right  to  hold opinions without  हस्तक्षेप  '' and ``  everyone   shall   have  the  सही   to  freedom of  अभिव्यक्ति  ; this right  shall  include freedom  to   तलाश  ,  प्राप्त  and  impart   सूचना   और   विचार   of  all kinds  ,  regardless of frontiers ,  either   orally  , in writing or in print , in  the   रूप   of  art ,  or  through any other media of  उसके   चुनाव   ''  .
आलेख   19   goes   on  to  कह  that the exercise of these rights  carries  `` special duties  और  responsibilities `` and  may   ``   इसलिए  be subject to  निश्चित  restrictions  ''   जब  necessary  ``  [ f ] or respect of the rights or reputation  of  others ''  or  ``  [  f ] or the  सुरक्षा  of national security or  of   पब्लिक  order  (  order public  )  ,  or   of  public health  or  morals  ''   .
Freedom of  वाक   may  be  legally   curtailed   in   कुछ  religious legal systems and  in   धर्मनिरपेक्ष   jurisdictions  where it is  मिला  to cause  धार्मिक  offense , such as the British  जातिगत   और   धार्मिक  Hatred  अधिनियम  2006 .
The Big Bang Theory logo  .
The Big  बंग   सिद्धान्त   is   an  American  कॉमेडी  television series created and executive  उत्पादित  by  चक  Lorre and  विधेयक   prady  .
Like the  नाम   of   the  series itself  ,   साथ  the  एक्सेप्शन   of   the  first  episode—  ''  पायलट  '' —episode titles  of   the  Big Bang  सिद्धान्त  always  प्रारंभ   साथ  `` The  ''  and resemble  the  name  of   a   वैज्ञानिक  principle ,  सिद्धान्त  or  प्रयोग  , whimsically referencing a plot point  or  quirk .
,   133   एपीसोड   have   aired  .
the  Big  बंग   सिद्धान्त  has been  नवीनीकृत   लिये  a seventh season  .
Dwight David ``  आइक  ''  आइज़नहावर   (  pronounced  ,  ; October  14  ,  1890   –  March 28  ,   1969   )  was  the   34th  President of the  संयुक्त  States  इससे   1953  until  1961  .
he   था   previously   महरूम   a   five-star  general in  the  United States Army during World War  ii  and served as Supreme  कमांडर   of   the   अलाइड  Forces  in  Europe ;  he  had responsibility for  नियोजन   और  supervising the invasion  of  North  अफ़्रीकी  in Operation Torch in 1942–43 and the  कामयाब  invasion of France and Germany in  1944–45   इससे  the Western Front  .
In 1951 , he  became  the  पहला  supreme  कमांडर  of NATO  .
आइज़नहावर  was of Pennsylvania Dutch  ancestry   और  was reared in  a  large family  in  Kansas by parents with a  मजबूत  work ethic and religious  पृष्ठभूमि  .
As one of six  बेटे   ,  he was conditioned  by   a  competitive  माहौल  which instilled self-reliance  .
He attended and  ग्रैजुएट   इससे  West Point and later married and had two sons .
बाद  World War II  ,  Eisenhower served as  फौज  Chief of Staff  अंतर्गत   अध्यक्ष   हैरी  S.  ट्रूमैन  , then  assumed   the   पोस्ट   of   अध्यक्ष  at Columbia  विश्वविद्यालयों  .
आइज़नहावर  entered the 1952 presidential  रेस  as a Republican to  काउंटर  the non-interventionism of Senator Robert  A.   taft   और   to  crusade against `` Communism ,  कोरियाई  and corruption ''  .
He  जीती  by  a  landslide , defeating  डेमोक्रेट   adlai   stevenson  and  समाप्ति  two decades  of  the New  सौदे  Coalition  .
in  the first  साल   of   उसके  presidency , Eisenhower deposed the leader  of  Iran in  the  1953 Iranian coup d'état and  प्रयुक्त   नाभिकीय   खतरे  to  conclude  the  कोरियाई   युद्ध   साथ  China .
His New Look  नीति   of  nuclear deterrence gave priority to inexpensive nuclear weapons while reducing the  funding   लिये   conventional   सैन्य  forces ; the goal was to keep pressure on  the   सोवियत   संघ   और  reduce federal deficits .
in  1954 , Eisenhower first  articulated  the domino theory in his  वर्णन  of  the   threat  presented  by  the  स्प्रेड  of communism .
the  Congress agreed to  उसके   निवेदन   in  1955 for the Formosa  रेज़ोल्यूशन  ,  जिससे  enabled him  to   prevent  Chinese communist  आक्रामकता  against  चाइनीज   राष्ट्रवादियों   और   स्थापित  the  u.S.  policy of  defending  Taiwan .
जब  the Soviets launched  sputnik  in 1957  ,  he  था  to play  catch-up   in  the  स्पेस  race .
Eisenhower forced  इसराईल   ,  the UK , and France to end their invasion  of  Egypt during the  स्वेज  Crisis of 1956 .
In  1958   ,  he sent 15,000 US troops  to  Lebanon to prevent  the   pro-western   सरकारी   इससे  falling to  a  Nasser -inspired revolution  .
निकट  the  समाप्त  of his term  ,   उसके   प्रयत्न   to   नियत  up  a  summit  बैठक   साथ   the   soviets   collapsed   क्युकी  of the  u-2   घटना   .
on  the domestic front  ,  he covertly  opposed  Joseph  मैकार्थी   और  contributed to the end  of  McCarthyism  by  openly invoking the  आधुनिक  expanded version of executive  विशेषाधिकार  .
He  वरना  left  सबसे  political  कार्यकलाप   to  his Vice  अध्यक्ष  ,  रिचर्ड  Nixon .
He  थी  a  मॉडरेट   रूढ़िवादी  who continued New Deal agencies and expanded  सोशल  Security .
among  his  enduring  innovations  ,  he  शुभारम्भ   the  Interstate Highway System  ;   the   रक्षा   उन्नत  Research Projects Agency (  darpa  ) , which  led   to   the   अंतरजाल   ,  among many invaluable outputs ; the  नेशनल   aeronautics   और  Space  प्रशासन   (  NASA  )  ,  ड्राइविंग   शांतिपूर्ण  discovery  in  space ;  the  establishment  of  strong science education via the  नेशनल   रक्षा  Education  अधिनियम  ;  और  encouraging peaceful use of  नाभिकीय  power  via   amendments   to  the  परमाणु   उर्जा   अधिनियम  .
In  सोशल   नीति  , he sent  संघीय   सैनिकों  to Little Rock  ,   अरकंसास   ,   लिये   the   पहला   समय   चूंकि   पुनर्निर्माण  to  enforce  federal  अदालत   आदेश  to  desegregate  public schools .
he  also signed  सिविल  rights  विधान   in   1957  and 1960  to  protect the right  to  vote .
he  implemented  desegregation  of the armed forces in  दो   सालो   और  made five appointments  to   the  Supreme Court .
he   थी  the  पहला   term-limited  president in  accordance  with  the  22nd  amendment  .
Eisenhower 's two terms were peaceful  ones  for the  सबसे   भाग   और  saw considerable economic prosperity  मगर  for a sharp recession  in  1958–59  .
Eisenhower  is   प्रायः  ranked  अत्यधिक   among   the   u.S.   राष्ट्रपतियों   .
एयर  Force One is the  आधिकारिक   एयर  traffic  कंट्रोल   कॉल  sign  of   a   संयुक्त  States  एयर  Force  वायुयान  carrying the President of  the  United States .
In common parlance the term refers to those  एयर   फ़ोर्स   वायुयान  specifically  designed  , built  ,   और  used for the  purpose   of  transporting the president  .
The  अध्यक्षीय  aircraft is  a   prominent  symbol of the  अमरीकी  presidency and its  शक्ति   .
the   विचार   of   designating  specific  सैन्य   वायुयान  to transport the  अध्यक्ष  arose in 1943 ,  जब   officials   of  the United States Army  एयर   शक्तियां   –  the predecessor  to   the  U.S.  एयर   फ़ोर्स  –  became   चिंतित  with relying  on  commercial airlines to transport the  अध्यक्ष  .
a  C-87 Liberator Express  थी  reconfigured for use as a presidential transport  ;  however , it  थी   अस्वीकृत  by the Secret  सेवा  amid concerns over  the   वायुयान  's safety record .
a   c-54  Skymaster was then  परिवर्तित   लिये   अध्यक्षीय  use  ;  this  वायुयान  ,  उतावले  the Sacred  गाय  , transported President  फ्रैंकलिन  D. Roosevelt to  the  Yalta  सम्मेलन  in  फ़रवरी   1945  , and  थी   subsequently   प्रयुक्त  for  another  two  सालो  by President Harry S. Truman  .
the  ``  एयर  Force One  ''  call sign was created  बाद  a  1953  incident during  जिससे  a  उड़ान   carrying   अध्यक्ष   ड्वाइट  D. Eisenhower entered  the  same airspace as a commercial airline  उड़ान   using  the  वही   कॉल   चिह्न   .
अनेक  aircraft have  महरूम   प्रयुक्त  as Air  फ़ोर्स  One since the  सृष्टि  of  the   अध्यक्षीय  fleet , including two Boeing  707s  introduced  in   the   1960s   और   1970s   ,   क्रमशः  ;  चूंकि   1990   ,  the presidential  बेड़े  has  consisted  of two Boeing VC-25As – specifically  विन्यस्त  ,  अत्यधिक   customized  Boeing 747-200B  श्रेणी  aircraft  .
The Air  फ़ोर्स  is looking  into   replacing   the  two VC-25 aircraft  साथ  three replacement aircraft beginning in  2017   .
A  विवाह   वर्षगांठ  is  the   वर्षगांठ  of the date  a  wedding took  प्लेस  .
परंपरागत  names exist  लिये   सबसे  of  उन्हें   :  for instance  ,   50  years  of   विवाह  is called a ``  सुनहरी   विवाह  anniversary  ''   or   बस   a   ``   सुनहरी   वर्षगांठ   ''  .
A  स्कैनर  with  duplexing  Automatic Document  फीडर  .
in  multifunction or  all-in-one   मुद्रक   ,  fax machines  ,  photocopiers and  scanners  , an  स्वचालित  document  फीडर  or  adf  is a feature  जिससे  takes  अनेक  pages and  फ़ीड्स  the  पेपर   एक  page  at  a time into a  स्कैनर  or  कॉपियर  ,  allowing  the  उपयोक्ता   to   स्कैन   ,   और   thereby  copy  ,  print ,  or  fax , multiple-page  दस्तावेज़   बगैर  having  to   हस्तचालित  replace each  पेज   .
सबसे   copiers   allow   स्कैनिंग  on the  फ्लैटबेड   or   platen   (   the   ``  glass ''  )   or  through  a  document feeder  .
The  विशाल  majority of fax  मशीने  have an  adf  ,  allowing  the unattended sending of multi-page  faxes  .
Due  to   the  ubiquity of ADF  in  fax machines  ,  some fax machine owners use the  फैक्स   यंत्र   as   a   स्कैनर  , faxing  multi-page  documents to  themselves  .
दस्तावेज़  feeders are described by speed , in  पृष्ठों   प्रति  minute  or  ppm , and  क्षमता   ,  usually in a range from 10 sheets to 200  .
There are  दो  kinds  of   दस्तावेज़  feeders capable of two-sided ( duplex  )  scanning  :   a   reversing   स्वचालित   दस्तावेज़   फीडर   or  RADF scans  एक   पक्ष  of a  पेज   ,  then flips it and  scans  the other  पक्ष  .
A duplexing automatic  दस्तावेज़   फीडर  or DADF scans both  पहलू   in  one  pass  .
the  advantage  of  the  dadf   is   तेज़  speed  लिये  two-sided  मूल  .
radfs  and  dadfs  are  रेटेड  in images  प्रति   मिनट  ( IPM ) , the number of  पहलू   वे  can scan each  मिनट   .
Fair Park is  a   recreational   और   शैक्षणिक  complex  स्तिथ  in  डलास  , Texas (  यूएसए  ) .
the   जटिल  is registered  as  a Dallas Landmark  ,   नेशनल  Historic  लैंडमार्क  and  is  home to  नौ   संग्रहालय  ,  छह  performance facilities , a lagoon ,  और   the  largest Ferris  व्हील  in North America  .
अनेक   of  the  इमारतें   on   the   जटिल  were  constructed  for the  टेक्सास   centennial  Exposition  in  1936 which  खींचा  over six million visitors .
Most  of   the   इमारतें  built for the exposition  स्टिल  survive and  it  is recognized  as   a   significant  example of Art Deco architecture  .
Fair  पार्क  has  महरूम   designated   a   ग्रेट  Place in  अमेरिका   by  the American Planning Association  .
The  अमरीकी   नियोजन  Association  (  APA  )   “is   an  independent ,  not-for-profit   शैक्षणिक  organization that provides  नेतृत्व  in the development  of   vital  communities.”
the  Great Places in  अमरीकी  program helps to celebrate areas  साथ  “exemplary character  ,  quality  ,  and planning.”
Being designated as  a  Great  प्लेस  in  अमेरिका  , Fair  पार्क  was one of  तभी   टेन  cities  चुनी  in 2011 .
San Jose (  ;  Spanish : St. Joseph  )  is the third-largest city in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ,   the   tenth-largest  in the  u.S.  , and the  काउंटी  seat of Santa Clara  काउंटी   जिससे  is located at  the  southern end of  सैन   फ्रांसिस्को   खाड़ी  .
सैन  Jose is the largest  नगर  within Silicon  घाटी  , which is  a  major  घटक   of   the  greater San  फ्रांसिस्को   खाड़ी  Area ,  a  region of  8.4  million people and the fifth largest metropolitan area (  सीएसए  )  in  the United  राज्य  .
It  is  the  largest  city in Northern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
San Jose was  संस्थापित   on  November 29  ,   1777  ,  as  El Pueblo de San  जोस  de Guadalupe  ,  the  पहला   civilian  town  in   the  Spanish colony  of  Nueva  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ,   जिससे   बाद  became Alta  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
The city  परोसा   as   a  farming  जातियाँ   to   support  Spanish military  संस्थापना   at  San Francisco  और  Monterey  .
When  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  gained statehood  in  1850  ,  San Jose served  as  its first  पूंजी   .
After  अधिक  than 150  सालो  as a  छोटी   खेती   नगर  ,  सैन   जोस  and the surrounding  सांता   क्लारा   घाटी  became  the  last ( and  largest  ) contiguous area of undeveloped land surrounding the  सैन  Francisco Bay .
San Jose  अनुभवी   increased  demand  लिये  housing  इससे   सैनिको  and  दिग्गजों  returning  इससे  World War II  .
San Jose  तब  continued its aggressive expansion  दौरान  the 1950s and  1960s  by annexing more land area  .
The rapid growth of  the  high-technology and electronics industries  further  accelerated  the  transition from an  agricultural   बीच   ,   to  an urbanized metropolitan area  .
By the  1990s   ,  San  जोस   's   स्थान   भीतर  the  booming  local technology  उद्योग  earned the city  इसके   उपनाम  , Capital  of  Silicon  घाटी  .
सैन  Jose now  maintains   वैश्विक  city status  और   is  the largest  नगर   in  the  सैन  Francisco Bay Area  in  terms  of   जनसांख्यिकी   ,  land  क्षेत्रफल   ,  and  औद्योगिक  development .
the  U.S. Census  ब्यूरो   reported  the population of the city  to  be 945,942 as of  the  2010  जनसांख्यिकी   .
as  of April  2013   ,  the  अनुमानित  population of San  जोस  was 984,000  .
San Jose  ,  along  साथ  the Santa  क्लारा  Valley , experienced about half a  सदी   of  spectacular suburban sprawl  ,  with  विशेषताएँ  of intense urbanization similar  to  the Los  एंजिल्स   क्षेत्रफल  of Southern California .
The city has taken  definite  steps to  avoid  becoming `` L.A.  उत्तर  ''  .
however   ,  the sprawl in  सैन  Jose  is   बदतर  than in Los Angeles by measures  ऐसे   as  population  घनत्व   और   पब्लिक  transit safety ,  निवेश  ,  और  ridership .
Europe  चित्रित  by  antwerp   cartographer  Abraham Ortelius in 1595
The history of Europe covers  the  people inhabiting  the   यूरोपीय  continent since it was  पहला  populated  in   प्रागैतिहासिक  times to  उपस्थित  , with the first  होमो  sapiens arriving between 45,000 and  25,000   bc  .
The earliest  settlers  to Prehistoric  यूरोपीय   आए   दौरान   the   paleolithic  era .
The arrival  of   कृषि  around 7000  bc   ushered   in   the   पाषाणकालीन   आयु  .
पाषाणकालीन  Europe lasted  लिये  4000 years ,  अतिव्यापी   साथ  metal-using cultures that gradually spread  throughout  the continent .
Technological advances  दौरान  the  प्रागैतिहासिक   आयु  tended  to  arrive from the  मध्य  East  ,   spreading  gradually to the  उत्तरपश्चिम  .
Some of the best-known  सभ्यताओं  of prehistoric Europe  यहूद  Minoan and Mycenaean , which  flourished  during  the   कांस्य  Age until they  collapsed   in  a short  काल  of  समय   around  1200 BC .
The  काल   ज्ञात  as  शास्त्रीय   प्राचीनता  began  साथ   the   वृद्धि  of  the  city-states  of  Ancient Greece .
Greek influence  पहुँचे  its zenith  अंतर्गत   the  expansive  साम्राज्य   of   सिकंदर  the Great , spreading throughout  एशिया   .
उत्तरी   और   पश्चिमी  Europe  यहूद  dominated  by  the  la  Tène culture  ,   a  precursor  to   the  Celts  .
Rome  ,  a small city-state traditionally founded in  753   bc   ,  would  grow  to  become   the  Roman Republic in  509   bc  and  होता  succeed  यूनानी  culture as the  प्रबल  Mediterranean civilization .
The  कार्यक्रम   of  the  नियम  of Julius Caesar  led   to  reorganization of  the  Republic  into  the Roman Empire .
The  साम्राज्य  was later divided by the emperor Diocletian into the Western and  पूर्वी  empires .
दौरान   the  later years of  the  Roman  साम्राज्य   ,  the Germanic  peoples  of  उत्तरी  Europe grew  in   शक्ति   और  repeated attacks led to the  पतन  of  the   पश्चिमी  Roman  साम्राज्य   in   ad  476 , a  तिथि  which traditionally  marks  the  समाप्त   of   the  classical  काल  and the start of  the   मध्य  Ages .
During  the  Middle Ages , the  पूर्वी   रोमन   साम्राज्य   बच  , though modern  इतिहासकारों  refer  to   इस  state as  the   बीज़ान्टिन   साम्राज्य  .
In Western  यूरोपीय  ,  germanic  peoples moved into positions of  शक्ति  in the remnants  of   the  former Western  रोमन   साम्राज्य  and established  kingdoms   और   empires  of their own .
of  all of the Germanic  peoples   ,  the  franks  would rise  to  a  स्थिति  of Hegemony over western Europe ,  the   frankish   साम्राज्य   reaching  its peak under  शारलेमेन   around  AD 800 .
Francia was divided  into  several parts ;  वेस्ट   francia  would evolve into  the  Kingdom  of   फ़्रांस  ,  जबकि  East Francia would  evolve   into  the  पावन  Roman Empire , a precursor  to  modern  जर्मनी  .
the  British Isles were  the  site of several large-scale migrations .
देशी  Celtic peoples had been marginalized during the  काल   of  Roman Britain  ,   और  when the Romans abandoned the British Isles during the  400s  , waves  of  Germanic  anglo-saxons   migrated  to  दक्षिणी  Britain  और  established a series of  क्षुद्र  kingdoms in  कया  would  आखिरकार  develop  into   the  Kingdom  of  England by  ad   927   .
During  इस   काल  , the  किंगडम  of Poland and Kingdom  of  Hungary  (  1000–1945  )  were organized as well .
the   viking  Age  ,  a  काल  of migrations of Scandinavian peoples , dominated the period from  the  late 700s to  the   मध्य  1000s  .
मुख्य  among  the  Viking states was the  साम्राज्य  of  cnut  the Great , a  डैनिश   नेता  who would  become   किंग  of England  ,   डेनमार्क  , and  नार्वे   .
The Normans  ,   a   viking  people  जो   settled  in Northern France and  संस्थापित  the Duchy of  normandy  , would have a  significant   प्रभाव  on  अनेक   भाग   of  Europe  ,   इससे  the Norman conquest of England  to   दक्षिणी  Italy and  सिसिली  .
another  Scandinavian people  ,  the Rus ' people , would  go  on to found Kievan Rus  '   ,  an early state which  थी   a  precursor  लिये  the  आधुनिक   देश   of  Russia .
as   the   viking  Age  खींचा  to a close ,  the   काल  known  as  the  क्रूसेड  , a series  of  religiously-motivated military  रिझाने  originally intended  to  bring  the  Levant back  into  Christian rule  ,   began  .
अनेक   जेहादी   राज्य  were  संस्थापित  in the  पूर्वी  Mediterranean  .
ये   यहूद   सब  short-lived .
the  Crusaders would  have   a  profound impact  on   अनेक  parts of Europe  .
उनके   बोरी  of Constantinople in  1204   brought  an abrupt  समाप्त   to  the Byzantine  साम्राज्य  .
विलुप्त   श्वान   breeds   is   a  compilation of  श्वान  breeds that have become  विलुप्त   .
Wii  बोलो  is  a   माइक्रोफोन  accessory  लिये  Nintendo 's  वी  video game  कंसोल  .
Connected to the console via USB  ,   the   यंत्र  can be  लगाई  near  the   वीडियो  display  ,  allowing  आवाज़  chat to  be  conducted  साथ  the entire room .
The device features  an   led   to  indicate  जब  the microphone is active .
Wii  बोलो  was  घोषित  at Nintendo 's  2008   e3  media  drug   .
it   थी  released separately and bundled  साथ  Animal Crossing  :  City Folk  on   नवम्बर   16   ,   2008   ,   in  North America , and was released on December 5 , 2008 , in Europe .
the  Wii Speak accessory  is  succeeded by  the  embedded  माइक्रोफोन   on   the   वी  U 's GamePad  नियंत्रक   .
निसान  Intelligent  key®
a  smart  कुंजी   is  an electronic access and authorization  प्रणाली  which is  उपलब्धियाँ   as   an   विकल्प   or  standard in several cars  .
It was first developed by Siemens  in  the  mid-1990s  and  introduced  by  mercedes-benz   अंतर्गत  the name `` Keyless Go '' in  1998   on  the  w220  S-Class  following  its  डिज़ाइन  patent filed by Daimler-Benz  on  May 17 , 1997  .
Univisión (  )  is a  spanish-language  television network in  the  United States .
The network is primarily dedicated for  लैटिन   अमरीकी  families who  reside   in   the  United States .
it  has the  largest  audience of  spanish-language  television viewers  in  the world according to Nielsen ratings  .
Randy Falco , (  सीईओ  as  of  June  29   ,   2011  ) COO ,  रै   महरूम   in   चार्ज   of   the  company since  the  departure of Univision Communications  अध्यक्ष  and CEO Joe Uva in  अप्रैल  2010  .
In recent years the network  रै  reached parity with  the  U.S.  's  five major English-language  टेलीविज़न  networks  ,  and is often a  दमदार   पांचवां  ,  outranking  The CW , with some  fourth-place   साप्ताहिक  placings  ,  and as  of   2012  , even  पहला   प्लेस  rankings for individual  कार्यक्रम   over  all five English networks  due  to the  संजाल  's  सतत  schedule  of   नई  telenovelas all  52  weeks of  the  year .
univisión   is  headquartered in New York  ,   और  has its  प्रमुख   studios   ,   उत्पादन   सुविधाएं   ,   और  operations in  doral  ,  फ्लोरिडा  , a suburb  of  Miami .
In  2009   ,  another  टेलीविज़न  studio  थी   घोषित  ,  univision   studios   ,   to   be   निर्मित   in   doral   .
univision  is  उपलब्धियाँ  on  केबल   और   उपग्रह   in   सबसे   of   the  country , with local stations  in  over 50 markets with large  हिस्पैनिक  and Latino populations and  a   नेशनल   केबल   संजाल   फीड   वितरित  in markets  बगैर  either  the  availability or the demand  लिये   a  locally-based  स्टेशन  .
Most of  ये  stations  एयर   पूरा  local news and  अन्य  local programming  in  addition to network  shows  ,  और  in major markets such  as  Los  एंजिल्स   ,  New York  ,   और  Miami  the   लोकल  newscasts carried  by  the  संजाल   's  owned-and-operated station (  o   &   o  ) stations are equally  प्रतिस्पर्धी   साथ  their English-language counterparts ratings-wise .
Univisión was acquired  on  March 29 , 2007 by  a   consortium  led by Haim  saban  's Saban Capital  समूह  (  जो   था  previously owned  the   एंटिटी   saban  Entertainment ) , TPG  पूंजी  ,  l.P.  , Providence Equity Partners  ,  Madison Dearborn Partners  ,  and Thomas  H.  Lee  साझेदार   लिये  $ 13.7 billion or  $   36.25   प्रति   share   प्लस  $ 1.4 billion in acquired debt  .
the   buyout  left the  कम्पनी   साथ   a  debt level  of  twelve  टाइम्स   इसके   सालाना   नकदी  flow ,  जिससे  was twice the norm  in  buyouts done  over  the previous  दो   सालो  .
Artist  's   धारणा  of a  आदिग्रह   डिस्क
the   गठन   और  of  the  Solar System  is  estimated to have begun 4.6  अरब  years  पहले  with the gravitational collapse of  a   छोटी  part  of   a  giant  आणविक  cloud .
सबसे  of the  collapsing  mass collected in the centre ,  forming  the Sun , while the rest flattened  into   a   आदिग्रह  disk out of which the  ग्रह  , moons ,  क्षुद्रग्रह   ,   और  other small Solar System bodies formed  .
This widely  स्वीकृत  model ,  ज्ञात  as the  nebular  hypothesis  ,  was  पहला  developed in the 18th century by Emanuel  swedenborg  ,  immanuel  Kant ,  और  Pierre-Simon Laplace .
Its subsequent  विकास   रै  interwoven a variety of scientific disciplines including astronomy  ,   भौतिकी   ,  geology  ,   और  planetary science  .
चूंकि  the dawn  of  the  स्पेस  age in the 1950s and the  डिस्कवरी  of  extrasolar   ग्रह   in   the   1990s   ,  the model  रै   महरूम   दोनो  challenged and refined to  खाता   लिये   नई   observations  .
the   सौर  System has  विकसित   considerably   चूंकि  its initial  गठन  .
Many moons have formed from circling  discs  of  गैस  and dust around their  जनक  planets ,  जबकि  other moons are thought to  have   formed   independently  and  बाद   महरूम   captured   by   उनके   ग्रह   .
Still others ,  as   the  Earth 's  चंद्रमा  , may  be  the result of giant collisions  .
Collisions between  लाशें  have occurred continually  up  to the  उपस्थित  day and have been central to the evolution of  the  Solar  प्रणाली   .
the   स्थितियाँ   of   the   ग्रह  often  shifted   ,  and planets  have   switched  places  .
This  ग्रहीय   माइग्रेशन   is   अभी  thought to have  महरूम  responsible for  much  of  the   सौर  System 's  जल्दी   एवोल्यूशन   .
In roughly  5  billion years , the Sun  होगा  cool and  विस्तार  outward  अनेक   टाइम्स  its  वर्तमान   व्यास  (  बनने  a red giant  )  , before casting  बंद  its outer layers as a  ग्रहीय   नीहारिका   और  leaving behind a stellar  remnant  known  as   a   श्वेत  dwarf .
In  the  far  दूर   भविष्य  , the  गम्भीरता  of passing  सितारों  will gradually reduce  the   सूर्य   's  retinue  of   ग्रह   .
Some  ग्रह   होगा  be destroyed , others ejected into interstellar space  .
Ultimately  ,  over the  कोर्स  of  tens  of  अरबों   of   सालो  , it is  संभावित  that the Sun will  be   बाएँ  with  none   of   the   असली   लाशें  in orbit around it .
the  Trial ( Kafka 's original German  शीर्षक   :  , later as , and )  is  a novel  लिखा  by Franz  काफ्का   in   1914   और   1915  but  नहीं   प्रकाशित   जबतक  1925 .
एक  of Kafka  's  best-known  works  ,  it  tells the story of a man  गिरफ्तार  and prosecuted by a remote ,  अभिगम्य  authority  ,   साथ   the   प्रकृति   of  his  अपराधों  revealed  to  neither  उसे  nor the reader .
जैसे  Kafka  's   अन्य  novels , The Trial  थी  never  समाप्त  , although it  करता  include  a  chapter which brings  the   स्टोरी  to an end .
Because of  इस   वहीँ  are  निश्चित   inconsistencies   जिससे   मौजूद  within  the   अनोखा   ,  such as disparities in timing in addition to  अन्य  discontinuities in narration .
बाद  Kafka 's death in 1924 his  dost  and  साहित्यिक   executor  Max Brod edited the text for  प्रकाशन   by  Verlag  die   schmiede   .
the  original manuscript is  आयोजित  at the  संग्रहालय   of   आधुनिक   साहित्य   ,  Marbach am  neckar   ,   जर्मनी  .
in   1999  , the  किताब   थी   सूचीबद्ध   in  Le Mondes  100   किताबे  of the  सदी  and  as  No  .  2 of  the   बेहतरीन   जर्मनी  Novels  of   the  Twentieth Century .
लिसा  Anne Loeb (  born  March 11 , 1968  )  is an  अमरीकी  singer-songwriter and  अभिनेत्री  .
वो   शुभारम्भ  her career  in   1994  with the song  ,   ``   रहो   (  I Missed You  )  ``  ,   जिससे  was included in the  फिल्मी  Reality Bites  .
She  थी  the first  कलाकार  to have  a   क्रमांक  one single in the United  राज्य   जबकि   नहीं  signed to  a   रिकॉर्डिंग  contract  .
Her five studio  cds  include her  प्रमुख  label  डेब्यू   ,   the  gold-selling Tails and  इसके   follow-up  , the  grammy-nominated   ,  gold-selling Firecracker .
लोएब   रै  also  worked  in film , television  ,   voice-over  work  और   children’s   रिकार्डिंग  .
लोएब   रै   appeared   in  two television series , Dweezil  &   लिसा  , a  साप्ताहिक   culinary   एडवेंचर  for  the  Food Network and Number 1 Single  ,   a   वास्तविकता  show on the E !
Network in 2006 focused on  उसके  quest for love ,  कामयाबी   ,  career , and family .
Her  children  's music  शामिल  the albums  कैच  the  चंद्रमा   (  2003 )  ,   और   शिविर  Lisa ( 2008  )  .
Her  पहला  joint children 's  किताब  and album Lisa  लोएब  's Silly  sing-along  : The Disappointing Pancake  और  Other Zany  गीतों  was  प्रकाशित  in 2011  .
In 2010 she  संस्थापित  the  लिसा   लोएब  Eyewear Collection  ,  which is  आधारित  on  उसके  own designs .
the  Coat of arms  of  the State of  नई  Jersey  शामिलs:
a  shield with  तीन  plows  emblazoned  , representative  of   नई  Jersey  's  agricultural  परंपरा  .
A forward-facing knight 's  हेल्मेट  .
A  घोड़ा  's  सिर  as  the   crest   of   the  helmet .
the   मादा  figures  स्वतंत्रता  and  ceres  , representative of  the   राज्य  's  motto   (   देखिए  next  मद   )   .
स्वतंत्रता   is  holding a  स्टाफ   supporting  a  ``   स्वतंत्रता  cap  ``   ;   ceres   is   पकड़कर  an  overflowing   cornucopia  .
the   streamer  at  the  foot of  the   emblem  contains  the  State Motto of  नई  Jersey  ,   ``  Liberty  और   समृद्धि   ''   ,  and  the  year  of  statehood  ,   1776  .
it  was  originally   designed  by  पियरे  Eugene  du  Simitiere in 1777  और  was modified  थोड़ा   in   1928   .
The seal is the  सेंट्रल  motif in  the   ध्वज  of New Jersey  और  the  ग्रेट  Seal of  the  State  of  New Jersey .
The Coat of arms  contains  a  घोड़ा   's   सिर   .
A helmet  प्रर्दशित   कि  New Jersey  governs   itself   तदनुसार  and three  plows   on  a shield  referring  to  the   राज्य  's  कृषि  tradition  ,   giving  it  the  nickname ``  गार्डन  State  ''  .
the  two Goddesses represent the State  motto  , `` Liberty and  समृद्धि  ''  .
Liberty is  on  the left .
She is  पकड़कर  a staff  साथ  a liberty  कैप  on  it  , and the word liberty underneath  उसके  .
the   देवी  on  the   सही  is Ceres  ,  goddess of agriculture  .
She  is  holding  a   cornucopia  with prosperity written below her .
according  to the minutes of the  नई   जर्सी  General Assembly  लिये  March 11  ,  1896 , the date  in  which  the   सभा  officially approved  the  flag  as   the  state  emblem  ,  the   buff   रंग  is due  indirectly   to  George Washington ,  जो   था  ordered on October  2  , 1779 , that  the  uniform  coats  of  the  New Jersey  महाद्वीपीय   लकीर   be   अंधेरा  (  जर्सी  ) blue  ,   साथ  buff facings  .
Buff-colored facings had  जबतक  then been  सुरक्षित   तभी   लिये  his own  वर्दी  and those of other Continental generals and  उनके   aides   .
Then , on  फ़रवरी   28   ,   1780  , the Continental  युद्ध   अधिकारियों   in  Philadelphia  निर्देशित  that the  वर्दी   कोट  facings  of  all regiments  यहूद  to be  the  same  as  the background color of the regiments  '  state  ध्वज   .
the   मुहर   is  described in New Jersey statute Title 52  ,  §2-1:
`` We Can  कार्य   it   आउट   ''  is  a   सोंग  by the  बीटल्स  ,  लिखा  by Paul  mccartney   और  John  लेनन   .
It was released as  a  ``  दोगुना   a-sided   ``  single with `` Day  tripper  ``  ,   the   पहला   समय  both  पहलू   of  a  सिंगल   यहूद   so  designated  in  an initial release  .
Both  गीतों  were  अंकित   दौरान   the  Rubber Soul  सत्र  .
The  सोंग   is  an  उदाहरण  of  lennon–mccartney  collaboration  at  a  गहराई   कि   happened  only  rarely  after they  लिखा   the  hit  singles  of 1963  .
This song  ,  ``  a  Day in the Life  ``   ,   ``   baby  ,  तुम  're a  समृद्ध  Man `` and  ``  I 've  मिला  a Feeling `` ,  हैं   among  the notable  अपवाद  .
As a medical diagnosis ,  pedophilia  or  paedophilia  is  a  psychiatric  विकार  in persons  16   सालो  of  आयु   or  older  typically  characterized  by  a primary or  विशेष  sexual  ब्याज  toward prepubescent children  (  generally age 11  सालो  or  younger  ,  हालांकि  specific diagnosis criteria for the disorder  extends   the  cut-off  पाइंट  for  prepubescence  to age 13  )  .
An adolescent who is  16  years  of   आयु  or older  जरूर  be at least  पाँच  years older than the prepubescent child before  the   आकर्षण  can be diagnosed as  pedophilia  .
The  पद   रै  a range of  परिभाषाएं  , as  मिला  in  psychiatry  , psychology , the vernacular , and law enforcement  .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Classification  of   रोगों  (  आईसीडी  ) defines  pedophilia  as a  ``   विकार  of adult  व्यक्तित्व  and behaviour ''  in   जिससे  there is  a  sexual preference for  children  of  prepubertal  or  जल्दी  pubertal age  .
According to the Diagnostic  और  Statistical Manual  of   दिमागी   विकार  (  dsm   )  , it  is   a  paraphilia  in   जिससे   वयस्कों   or  adolescents  16   सालो  of  आयु   or  older  have  intense  और  recurrent sexual  प्रेरणाएं  towards and  कल्पनाओं  about prepubescent children that they  have  either acted on or which  कारण  them  तकलीफ   or  interpersonal difficulty  .
in  popular  उपयोग   ,   pedophilia  means  कोई   यौन   ब्याज   in  children  or  the  अधिनियम  of  चाइल्ड   यौन  abuse ,  प्रायः  termed ``  pedophilic  behavior ''  .
लिये  example , The  अमरीकी   विरासत  Stedman 's Medical Dictionary  राज्य   ,   ``   pedophilia   is  the  अधिनियम   or  fantasy on the part  of  an  वयस्क   of   engaging   in  sexual activity with a child or children . ''
This common  उपयोग  application also extends to the sexual  ब्याज   in   और   यौन   सम्पर्क  with  रोमिल  or  post-pubescent   नाबालिग  .
Researchers recommend that  ये   imprecise   उपयोग  be  avoided   क्युकी  although people  जो  commit  चाइल्ड   यौन  abuse commonly exhibit the disorder  ,  some offenders  do   नहीं  meet the clinical diagnosis standards for pedophilia and  ये   मानकों  pertain to  prepubescents   .
additionally  , not  सब   pedophiles  actually commit such abuse .
Pedophilia  थी  first formally  पहचाना   और  named in  the  late  19th  century .
A significant  राशि  of research  in   the   क्षेत्रफल  has  लिया  place since the  1980s   .
Although  ज़्यादातर  documented in men ,  वहीँ  are  भी   महिलाओं  who exhibit the disorder , and researchers assume  उपलब्धियाँ   estimates  underrepresent the  सच्चा  number of  मादा  pedophiles .
No cure for pedophilia has  महरूम   विकसित  ,  लकिन  there are therapies  कि  can  reduce   the  incidence  of   a  person  committing   चाइल्ड   यौन  abuse .
In  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  , following Kansas v. Hendricks , sex  अपराधियों   जो  are  diagnosed   साथ  certain mental disorders , particularly pedophilia ,  can   be  subject to indefinite civil  प्रतिबद्धता   ,   अंतर्गत  various state laws ( generically called  svp   कानून   )   और   the  federal  आदम  Walsh Child Protection  और  Safety Act  of   2006  .
at  present , the exact  कल्याणकारी  of  pedophilia   have  not been conclusively  स्थापित   .
Research  suggests   कि  pedophilia may  be  correlated with several different neurological abnormalities  ,   और  often co-exists with other  व्यक्तित्व   विकार  and  मनोवैज्ञानिक   pathologies  .
In the  contexts  of forensic psychology and law enforcement , a variety of typologies  have  been suggested to categorize  pedophiles  according to  बर्ताव  and motivations .
Julio César  chávez   (  born Julio  césar  Chávez  gonzález  on  जुलाई   12   ,  1962  )   is   a  retired Mexican  पेशेवर  boxer  .
chávez   is  considered  by   अनेक  people for their sport statistics the  महानतम  fighter  कभी   to  come  आउट  of Mexico .
He  is  a six-time  संसार   चैंपियन   in   तीन  weight divisions ,  और  for several  सालो   he   थी  considered one of the best pound-for-pound  boxer  in the  संसार  .
In a  करियर  that  spanned   over  25 years  ,   chávez  won five  संसार   शीर्षक   in  three weight  विभाजन  : WBC Super  featherweight   in  1984 , WBA  lightweight   in  1987 ,  wbc   lightweight  in  1988   ,   wbc  Light  welterweight  in 1989  ,  IBF Light Welterweight in  1990   ,   और  WBC Light  welterweight  in  1994   .
He holds records for most  कामयाब   लगातार  defenses  of  world titles ( 27  )  , most  शीर्षक  fights  (  37  )  ,  सबसे  title-fight  victories  ( 31  )  and  he  is after Joe Louis  साथ   (   23  ) for most title  defenses  won  by  knockout ( 21 ) .
Chávez also has the  longest   अपराजित   streak  in  मुक्केबाज़ी  history , 13 years .
उसके  record was  89-0-1  going  into  his first loss to Frankie  रान्डेल  and had an  87  fight win  streak  until  उसके  ``  चित्रण  ''  साथ  Whitaker  .
Julio  césar  Chávez was known for  उसके  outstanding punching power , devastating body attack  ,  remarkably strong chin and the relentless  stalking  of  उसके   प्रतिद्वंद्वियों   .
He ranks #  24  on ESPN 's 50 Greatest Boxers Of  सब   समय  .
On December 7 , 2010  ,   he  was inducted in  the   prestigious  International  मुक्केबाज़ी   हॉल  of Fame for the Class of 2011  .
he   is   the  father of prospect Omar Chávez and  पूर्व  WBC Middleweight Champion  जूलियो  César Chávez  ,  Jr .
`` Selektion `` on  the   judenrampe   ,  Auschwitz , May/June 1944 .
To be sent to  the   सही  meant slave  मजदूर  ;  to  the left , the  गैस  chamber .
इस  image shows  the   आगमन   of  Hungarian  यहूदियों   इससे   carpatho-ruthenia   ,  many of  उन्हें  from  the   berehov   ghetto   .
The photographer was  अर्नस्ट  Hofmann or  बर्नहार्ड   वाल्टर  of the  ss  .  चित्र   सौजन्य  of  yad   vashem
The Holocaust (  इससे   the   यूनानी   '  :  hólos   ,   ``  whole '' and  kaustós   ,  `` burnt '' )  भी  known as  the  Shoah (  यहूदी   :  , HaShoah  ,   ``   प्रलय   ''  ; Yiddish  :  , Churben or Hurban , from the Hebrew for  ``   विनाश   ''   )  , was  the  mass murder  or   नरसंहार  of  लगभग  six  लाख   यहूदियों  during World  युद्ध   ii   ,  a  कार्यक्रम  of  व्यवस्थित  state-sponsored  हत्या  by  नाजी  Germany , led  by   एडोल्फ  Hitler and the  नाजी  Party , throughout  german-occupied  territory .
of   the  nine million Jews who had resided in  यूरोपीय  before the  holocaust   ,   लगभग  two-thirds were killed  .
Over one  लाख   यहूदी  children were killed  in   the  Holocaust ,  as  were approximately two million Jewish  महिलाओं   और   तीन   लाख   यहूदी  men .
a  network of over  40,000  facilities in Germany and  german-occupied  territory  यहूद  used  to   concentrate   ,  hold ,  और  kill  यहूदियों   और   अन्य  victims  .
Some scholars  argue   कि   the  mass  हत्या   of  the Romani and  लोगों  with disabilities should be included  in  the definition , and  कुछ   उपयोग  the common  संज्ञा  `` holocaust ''  to   describe   अन्य  Nazi mass murders , including  those   of   सोवियत   बंदियों   of  war  ,   पॉलिश   और   सोवियत   नागरिकों  ,  और   homosexuals  .
Recent estimates based  on   आंकड़े   प्राप्त  since  the   पतन   of   the   सोवियत  Union indicates some ten to  ग्यारह  million civilians and  बंदियों  of  युद्ध  were intentionally  murdered   by   the   नाजी  regime  .
The persecution and genocide  यहूद  carried out in  चरण  .
Various  कानून   to  remove the Jews from  सिविल  society  ,  most prominently  the   nuremberg  Laws , were  enacted  in  जर्मनी  years before  the   outbreak  of World  युद्ध   ii  .
Concentration  शिविरों  were  स्थापित   in   जिससे   inmates  were subjected to  स्लेव  labor  जबतक  they  died  of  थकावट   or   बीमारी  .
Where  जर्मनी  conquered new  territory  in eastern Europe ,  specialized   इकाई  called  einsatzgruppen  murdered Jews and political  प्रतिद्वंद्वियों  in  द्रव्यमान  shootings .
the  occupiers required Jews and Romani to  be   confined  in  overcrowded  ghettos  पहले  being transported  by  freight train to  extermination  camps  जहाँ   ,  if they survived  the   यात्रा   ,  most  यहूद  systematically killed in  गैस   कक्षों   .
Every arm  of  Germany 's bureaucracy  थी  involved  in  the  लोजिस्टिक्स  that led  to   the  genocides ,  turning  the Third Reich into what  एक   holocaust  scholar has  पुकारा  `` a genocidal state  ''  .
4-H  in   the  United States is a youth organization  administered  by  the  National Institute of Food and  कृषि  of  the   संयुक्त  States  विभाग  of Agriculture (  यूएसडीए  ) ,  साथ   the  mission of ``  engaging  youth to reach  उनके  fullest potential  जबकि   advancing  the  फ़ील्ड  of youth development .  ''
The name represents four personal development  क्षेत्रों  of  फ़ोकस  for the  संगठन   :   सिर  ,  दिल  , hands , and health  .
the  organization has over  6.5  million  सदस्यों   in  the United  राज्य   ,  from ages five  to  twenty-one , in approximately 90,000 clubs .
the  goal of 4-H  is   to   develop   नागरिकता  , leadership  ,  responsibility  और   जीवन   कौशल  of youth through  experiential  learning  कार्यक्रम  and a positive youth development approach .
Though typically thought of as an  agriculturally   केन्द्रित  organization as a result of its  इतिहास  , 4-H today focuses  on   नागरिकता   ,   स्वस्थ   जीना  , science  ,  engineering ,  और   प्रौद्योगिकी   कार्यक्रम   .
आज   ,  4-H and related  कार्यक्रम  exist in over eighty  देशों  around the  संसार   ;  the  संगठन   और  administration  varies   इससे  country  to  country .
प्रत्येक   of   ये   कार्यक्रम  operates independently ,  लकिन  cooperatively through  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  exchanges , global  शिक्षा  programs  ,  and communications .
The 4-H  motto   is  ``  to  make  the  best better  ''   ,  while  इसके  slogan is ``  सीख  by  doing   ''  (  sometimes  written as `` Learn to do  by  doing ''  )   .
The  नेशनल   ध्वज   of   चिली  ,  consists   of   दो  unequal  आड़ा  bands of white and red and  a  blue  वर्गाकार   the   वही   ऊँचाई   as  the  श्वेत   बैंड  in the  कैण्टन   ,   जिससे  bears a white five-pointed star  in   the   बीच   .
it  was adopted on 18 October  1817   .
The  chilean   ध्वज  is also known  in   स्पेनी  as La Estrella  solitaria  (  the   लोन   स्टार   )  .
the   स्टार  represents a guide to  प्रगति  and honor ;  ब्लू  symbolizes the sky  और  the Pacific Ocean ,  श्वेत   is  for  the  snow-covered  andes   ,  and red  स्टैंड  for  the  blood  spilled  to achieve independence .
according   to   the   एपिक  poem  la  Araucana  ,   the  colors  यहूद  derived from those from  the  flag  flown  by the Mapuche during  the  Arauco  युद्ध  .
`` Flag  दिन  ''  is  held  प्रत्येक  year  on  the  नवीं  of July to commemorate the 77 soldiers who  died  in  the  1882 Battle of La  concepción  .
Generation Y  ,  also  ज्ञात  as the  अंतर्दृष्टियों  Generation ,  is   the  demographic cohort following Generation X .
There are no  precise   तिथियाँ   लिये  when Generation  y   starts   और   ends  .
टीकाकारों  use beginning birth  तिथियाँ   इससे  the latter 1970s  ,   or   इससे   the  early 1980s  to   the  early 2000s  .
the  Torches  of  Nero , by Henryk Siemiradzki  .
According  to  Tacitus  ,   नीरो   targeted   ईसाइयों  as  those   जिम्मेदार   लिये  the  आग  .
The  ग्रेट  Fire of Rome  (  ) was  an   शहरी  fire that  occurred   शुरूआत  19 July AD 64  .
वर्जिनिया  ( )  ,  officially the  राष्ट्रमंडल  of Virginia  ,  is a  u.S.  state located in  the  South Atlantic region of the  संयुक्त   राज्य   .
Virginia is  nicknamed  the `` Old  डोमिनियन   ''  and the ``  माँ  of Presidents '' after the eight U.S.  राष्ट्रपतियों  born there  .
the  geography and  जलवायु  of  the   राष्ट्रमंडल  are shaped by  the   ब्लू  Ridge Mountains and the Chesapeake Bay  ,  which provide  आवास  for much of its  फ्लोरा   और  fauna .
the  capital of  the  Commonwealth is Richmond  ;   और   वर्जिनिया   बीच  is the most populous  नगर   .
फेयरफैक्स  County  is  the  सबसे   populous   राजनैतिक  subdivision  .
the   wealthiest   is   loudoun  County .
the  Commonwealth 's population  is   over  eight  लाख   .
the  area 's history  begins   साथ  several indigenous  समूह  ,  सहित  the Powhatan  .
In  1607  the London  कम्पनी  established the Colony  of  Virginia as the first permanent  नई  World English  उपनिवेश   .
स्लेव  labor and  the   जमीन  acquired from  विस्थापित   देशी   अमरीकी  tribes  प्रत्येक   निभाई  a significant  भूमिका  in the  उपनिवेश   's   जल्दी  politics and plantation economy .
वर्जिनिया  was  एक  of  the  13 Colonies  in   the   अमरीकी   क्रान्ति   और   joined  the  confederacy  in  the   अमरीकी   सिविल  War ,  दौरान  which Richmond was  बना  the Confederate  पूंजी   और   वर्जिनिया  's northwestern  काउंटी  seceded  to   रूप   the   राज्य   of  West Virginia .
Although  the   राष्ट्रमंडल  was  अंतर्गत  conservative  single-party  rule for nearly a  सदी  following  पुनर्निर्माण   ,   दोनो   प्रमुख  national  पार्टियों   हैं   प्रतिस्पर्धी  in modern  वर्जिनिया  .
The Virginia General Assembly is the oldest  विधानमंडल   in  the Western Hemisphere .
The  राज्य  government has been repeatedly ranked most effective  by  the Pew  बीच   on   the  States  .
It is unique in  कैसा  it treats  शहरों  and counties equally  ,   manages  local  सड़कें  ,  और   prohibits   इसके  governors from  सेवारत  consecutive terms .
Virginia 's  अर्थव्यवस्था   रै   अनेक  sectors : agriculture  in  the Shenandoah Valley  ;  federal  एजेंसियों   in  Northern  वर्जिनिया   ,   सहित  the headquarters  of   the  Department of Defense  और  CIA ;  और  military facilities in  हैम्पटन  Roads  ,   the   साईट  of  the  region 's main  seaport  .
Virginia  's  public  स्कूलों  and many colleges and universities have contributed  to  growing media and technology sectors .
As a result , computer chips  have  become  the  state  's  leading export .
Windows Movie  मेकर  (  formerly  known as  खिड़कियाँ   सजीव  Movie  मेकर   ,   codenamed   sundance  ) is  a  freeware video editing  तन्त्र  by Microsoft  .
it  is a  भाग   of  Windows Essentials  तन्त्र  suite  और   offers  the ability  to  create and edit videos as  खूब  as  to   प्रकाशित   उन्हें   on   skydrive  , Facebook , YouTube , and  फ्लिकर   .
`` Brenda  's  Got A  baby  ''  is  the solo debut single by  तुपाक  Shakur ,  और   दसवाँ   track   इससे  his debut  एल्बम   ,   2pacalypse  Now  .
the   सोंग  , which features  r  & B  सिंगर  Dave  hollister   ,   is  about a twelve year-old  लड़की  named  ब्रेंडा  who  जीवनदान  in a ghetto  ,  has a baby ,  और   is   incapable   of  supporting  it  .
The song  explores  the issue of teen pregnancy  और  its  प्रभाव  on  the  young mothers  और   उनके   परिवारों   .
जैसे  many  of  Shakur  's   गीतों  , `` Brenda 's  मिला   a   baby  '' draws  इससे  the  दुर्दशा  of the  impoverished  .
using   ब्रेंडा  to represent young mothers  in  general , Shakur criticises  the  low  स्तर  of support  इससे   the  baby 's  पिता   ,  the  सरकारी   ,   और   समाज  in  सामान्य  .
shakur  wrote the song when  he   पढ़ा   a  newspaper article about a  twelve-year-old   लड़की   जो   मिला   गर्भवती   इससे   उसके   cousin   और   ,   क्युकी   वो  did not want  उसके   अभिभावक   to   जान  about the baby ,  फेंका  it in  a  trash  can   .
The  आधिकारिक   लोगो  of  पोकीमॉन   लिये   इसके   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  release ; ``  पोकीमॉन   ''  is short  लिये  the  असली  Japanese title  of  ``  जेब   राक्षस   ''   .
is a media  मताधिकार  published and owned  by  Japanese video  खेल   कम्पनी   निन्टेंडो   और   निर्मित   by  Satoshi Tajiri in 1996 .
originally   released   as  a pair  of   interlinkable  Game Boy  role-playing  video games developed  by  Game  freak   ,  Pokémon has  चूंकि  become the  second-most   कामयाब  and lucrative video  game-based   मीडिया  franchise  in  the world  ,  behind only Nintendo  's  own Mario  मताधिकार   .
Pokémon properties  have  since been merchandised into  दुश्मनी  , manga ,  व्यापार  cards , toys  ,   किताबे  ,  और  other media  .
The  मताधिकार  celebrated in  2006  ,  और  ,  संचयी  sales of  the   वीडियो  games ( including  घर  console versions , such as  the  ``  pikachu   ''   निन्टेंडो   64  )  have  reached  अधिक   than  200 million  नक़ल  .
In November  2005   ,  4Kids Entertainment  ,  which had managed  the   non-game  related  लाइसेंसिंग  of Pokémon ,  घोषित   कि   it  had agreed  नहीं  to  नवीनीकृत  the Pokémon  प्रतिनिधित्व  agreement .
पोकीमॉन  USA Inc. ( now The Pokémon Company International  )  ,  a   subsidiary  of Japan  's  Pokémon Co. ,  अभी   oversees  all  पोकीमॉन   लाइसेंसिंग  outside of Asia  .
The name Pokémon is the romanized contraction of the  जापानी  brand .
The term Pokémon , in addition  to  referring to the Pokémon franchise itself ,  भी  collectively  refers  to the  649   fictional  species that  have  made  दिखावे  in Pokémon  मीडिया  as  of  the release of  the   पांचवां   पीढी  titles  पोकीमॉन   ब्लैक   2   और   श्वेत  2 ; with the upcoming releases of Pokémon  x   और  Y , 6  नई  Pokémon have been  प्रदर्शित  in  प्रचार  for the games .
`` Pokémon ''  is  identical in  दोनो  the  एकवचन   और  plural  ,   as   is  each individual species  नाम   ;  it  is  grammatically correct  to   कह  ``  एक  Pokémon  ''  and  ``  many  पोकीमॉन  ''  ,  as well as ``  एक  Pikachu  ``  and  ``  many Pikachu '' .
Cover of  the  first edition  of  the publication  दादा  by  ट्रिस्टन   tzara  ; Zurich  ,   1917
दादा   (   )   or  Dadaism was an  आर्ट  movement  of  the European  avant-garde  in the  जल्दी  20th  सदी  .
Many  अर्जी  Dada began  in   ज्यूरिख   ,  Switzerland in 1916 , spreading  to  Berlin shortly thereafter but  the  height  of  New  यॉर्क   दादा  was  the  year  पहले  in 1915 .
to   उद्धरण   डोना  Budd  's   the   भाषा   of  Art Knowledge , Dada  थी   born   आउट  of negative reaction to  the  horrors  of   संसार  War I .
इस  international movement  थी  begun  by  a group of  कलाकार   और  poets associated with  the   कैबरे  Voltaire  in   ज्यूरिख   .
दादा  rejected reason  और  logic , prizing nonsense , irrationality and intuition .
The  उत्पत्ति   of   the  name Dada is unclear ; some believe that  it  is  a  nonsensical word .
अन्य   maintain   कि  it originates from  the   रोमानियाई   कलाकारों   ट्रिस्टन   tzara  and  मार्सल  Janco 's  बारंबार  use  of  the  शब्द   da   ,   da   ,  meaning  यस   ,   यस  in the  रोमानियाई  language .
Another theory  says  that  the   नाम   ``  Dada  ''  came during  a   बैठक  of the group when  a   पेपर  knife stuck into  a  French-German dictionary happened to point to  'डैडa   '  ,  a  French  शब्द   लिये   'hobbyhorse  '  .
The  गति  primarily involved visual arts , literature  ,  poetry , art manifestoes  ,   आर्ट  theory , theatre , and graphic design , and  concentrated   इसके  anti-war  राजनीती  through a  अस्वीकृति  of the  प्रचलित  standards  in  art through anti-art  सांस्कृतिक   works  .
In addition  to   होने  anti-war ,  दादा  was also  anti-  bourgeois and had  राजनैतिक  affinities  साथ   the  radical left .
Dada activities included  पब्लिक  gatherings  ,  demonstrations ,  और   प्रकाशन  of  art/literary   जर्नल्स   ;   passionate  coverage of art , politics  ,   और   संस्कृति  were  विषय   प्रायः  discussed in  a   किस्में  of media .
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball  ,  Emmy  hennings   ,  Hans Arp  ,  Raoul Hausmann , Hannah Höch ,  योहानेस   baader   ,  Tristan Tzara ,  फ्रांसिस   picabia   ,   रिचर्ड  Huelsenbeck ,  georg  Grosz  ,  John Heartfield ,  मार्सल  Duchamp  ,  Beatrice Wood , Kurt Schwitters ,  और   hans   रिक्टर   ,  among others  .
The  गति  influenced later  शैलियाँ  like  the  avant-garde and  शहर  music  आंदोलनों  , and  समूह  including  surrealism  , Nouveau réalisme , pop art and Fluxus .
Dada is the  groundwork   to  abstract  आर्ट  and  ध्वनि  poetry , a starting point  लिये  performance art  ,  a  prelude  to postmodernism , an influence  on  pop art ,  a  celebration of antiart to  be  later embraced for anarcho-political uses  in  the 1960s  और  the  गति  that  lay   the   न्यास   लिये  Surrealism .
पहला  trophic  स्तर   .
The plants in this  चित्र  , and  the   शैवाल   और  phytoplankton in the  झील   ,   हैं   प्राथमिक   निर्माता   .
They  लो  nutrients from  the   मृदा   or  the  जल   ,  and manufacture their  अपना  food  by   photosynthesis   ,  using  उर्जा  from the sun .
The  trophic   स्तर   of   an  organism  is   the  position it occupies  in   a   खाना  chain  .
the  word  trophic  derives  इससे  the Greek  τροφή   (  trophē ) referring to  खाना   or   feeding   .
a   खाना  chain represents  a  succession of  जीवों   कि  eat  another  organism and  हैं  , in  फेरे   ,  eaten themselves  .
the  number of steps  an  organism  is   इससे  the start  of   the   कड़ी  is a measure of its trophic  स्तर   .
Food chains  प्रारंभ  at  trophic  level  1   साथ   प्राथमिक  producers  ऐसे  as plants  ,   मूव  to herbivores at level  2  , predators at  स्तर  3 and typically  समाप्त   साथ   carnivores  or  apex  predators at level  4   or  5  .
the  path  साथ  the  कड़ी  can  रूप  either a  one-way  flow  ,  or a  खाना  ``  वेब  . ''
Ecological communities with higher biodiversity form  अधिक  complex trophic paths .
Four of  the   सबसे  important  domesticated   रेशा   शलभ  .
Top  to   नीचे   :  Bombyx  mori   ,   hyalophora  cecropia , Antheraea pernyi  ,  Samia cynthia  .
इससे   मेयर्स  Konversations-Lexikon  (  1885-1892 )
A silk-producing raspy cricket .
रेशा   is  a natural  प्रोटीन  fibre , some forms of which  can  be woven into  वस्त्र  .
The  प्रोटीन   fibre   of   रेशा  is  रचित  mainly  of  fibroin  और  produced by  निश्चित  insect larvae  to  form cocoons .
The best-known  प्रकार  of silk  is   प्राप्त  from  the  cocoons of the larvae  of   the  mulberry silkworm Bombyx mori  reared   in   captivity  (  sericulture   )  .
the   shimmering  appearance  of  silk is due to  the  triangular  प्रिज़्म  -like  ढांचा  of  the  silk fibre ,  जिससे   allows  silk  cloth  to refract  आवक  light at  अलग  angles  ,   यूँ   producing  different colors  .
silks  are produced by several other insects ,  लकिन  generally only the silk of  शलभ  caterpillars  रै   महरूम  used  लिये   वस्त्र  manufacturing  .
वहीँ   रै   महरूम  some  शोध  into other silks , which differ at the  आणविक   स्तर  .
Many silks  हैं  mainly produced by the larvae of insects  undergoing  complete metamorphosis  ,  but some  वयस्क  insects  ऐसे   as   webspinners   उपज   रेशा   ,   और   कुछ  insects  ऐसे   as   raspy  crickets produce silk throughout their  जीवनदान  .
रेशा  production also  occurs  in Hymenoptera (  मधुमक्खियों  , wasps  ,   और  ants ) , silverfish ,  mayflies  , thrips  ,  leafhoppers  ,   भृंग  , lacewings , fleas  ,   उड़ता   और  midges  .
Other  प्रकार   of   सन्धिपाद   उपज   रेशा  ,  सबसे  notably various  arachnids   ऐसे   as  spiders  (   देखिए   मकड़ी  silk )  .
Late Show with David Letterman  is   an  American late-night  बात   दिखाएँ   hosted  by  दाउद   लेटरमैन  on CBS  .
The  दिखाएँ  debuted  on  August 30  ,  1993 , and is  उत्पादित  by  लेटरमैन   's  production company , Worldwide Pants  incorporated  .
The  दिखाएँ  's music director and  band-leader  of  the   हाउस  band  ,  the  सीबीएस   ऑर्केस्ट्रा  , is Paul Shaffer .
The  सिर   लेखक  is  मैट   रॉबर्ट्स  and  the  announcer is  एलन  Kalter .
Of  the  major  u.S.  late-night  कार्यक्रम   ,  Late  दिखाएँ  ranks second in cumulative average viewers over  समय  and third  in  number  of   एपीसोड  over  समय   .
The  दिखाएँ  leads  अन्य  late night  shows  in ad revenue  साथ   $  271 million  in   2009  .
In  सबसे  U.S. markets the show airs  at   11:35   p.m.   eastern/pacific  time  ,   लकिन  is  अंकित   सोमवार  through Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. ,  और  Thursdays  at   3:30  p.m and  6:00   p.m   .
The second  गुरुवार  episode  प्रायः  airs  on  Friday of that  सप्ताह  .
In 2002 , Late Show with  दाउद   लेटरमैन   थी  ranked No .  7  on TV  मार्गदर्शिका  's  50  Greatest  tv  Shows of All Time  .
सीबीएस  has a contract with Worldwide  पैंट  to  continue   the  show through 2014 ;  by   तब  , Letterman will surpass Johnny Carson  as  the longest tenured late-night talk show  मेजबान  .
the  Real  housewives  of Orange County is  an   अमरीकी   वास्तविकता  documentary  टेलीविज़न   कार्यक्रम  on Bravo , set in  नारंगी  County , California .
it  was the  पहला  The  रियल   housewives   कार्यक्रम  in the series  .
The  श्रेणी   is   a  voyeuristic  dekh  into the  धनवान   जीवनदान  of these housewives  ,   as  they shop  ,   मिलेंगी  plastic  सर्जरी   ,  gossip  ,  fight and  सजीव  lavishly .
the  financial crisis ,  the  beginning  of   जिससे   coincided  almost exactly with the  पहला   ऋतु   's  broadcast ,  रै  since  trimmed  the housewives '  lifestyles  with  जॉब  losses  ,  evictions  ,   बंधक   मूलभूत  , foreclosures  ,   और   वैवाहिक  stress—all recorded in  प्रगतिशील   सीज़न   of  the show  .
Cyberstalking is the use of  the  Internet  or   अन्य  electronic means to stalk  or   harass   an   व्यक्तिगत  , a group  of  individuals  ,   or  an  संगठन   .
It may include the making  of  false accusations or statements  of  fact ( as  in  defamation  )  ,  निगरानी  , making  खतरे  , identity  चोरी  ,  क्षति  to  आंकड़ा  or  उपकरण   ,   the   solicitation  of  नाबालिग   लिये  sex , or gathering  सूचना  that may be used  to  harass .
The definition of  ``  harassment ''  जरूर  meet the  मानदंड  that  a   उचित  person  ,  in  कब्ज़ा   of   the  same information  ,   होता  regard  it  as sufficient  to   कारण  another reasonable person distress .
Cyberstalking is different from spatial  or  offline stalking  in  that it  occurs   through  the  उपयोग  of  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   संचार  technology  ऐसे   as  the  अंतरजाल  .
however  , it  sometimes  leads to it , or  is   accompanied  by  it   .
दोनो  are  दण्ड  offenses .
cyberstalking  shares important  विशेषताएँ  with  ऑफ़लाइन   stalking  .
Many stalkers –  ऑनलाइन  or  बंद  – are motivated by a  ख्वाहिश  to  कंट्रोल  their victims  .
a  cyberstalker may be  an  online stranger  or  a person whom  the  target knows .
a  cyberstalker may  be  anonymous and  may  solicit involvement of other people online  जो  do not even know the target .
cyberstalking   is  a criminal offense that  आता  into play under  राज्य  anti-stalking laws  ,   बदनामी  laws  ,   और   उत्पीड़न   कानून  .
a  cyberstalking  conviction   can   परिणाम  in a restraining order  ,   परिवीक्षा   ,  or even criminal penalties against the  assailant  , including jail .
a   कारोबार  letter  is  usually used  जब   लिखने   इससे  one company  to  another ,  or  for correspondence between  ऐसे   संगठन   और  their customers  ,   क्लाइंट   और  other  बाह्य  parties .
The overall style of letter  होगा   निर्भर   on   the  relationship between the  पार्टियों  concerned  .
There  हैं  many reasons  to   लिखें   a   कारोबार  letter .
It  could  be to  निवेदन  direct information  or   कार्रवाई  from another party , to  अनुक्रम   आपूर्तियाँ  from  a   प्रदायक  , to identify  a  mistake  कि   थी  committed  ,  to reply  सीधे  to a request , to apologize for  a  wrong  or  simply  to   convey  goodwill  .
Even today ,  the   कारोबार  letter is still very useful because it produces  a   स्थाई   रिकार्ड   ,  is  गोपनीय  ,  औपचारिक  and delivers  persuasive  , well-considered  संदेश  .
Tilapia ( ) is the  आम  name for nearly a hundred species of cichlid fish  इससे   the  tilapiine  cichlid  tribe  .
tilapia   हैं   मुख्यतः   freshwater  fish , inhabiting  उथले  streams ,  तालाबों   ,  rivers and  झीलों   ,  and less  commonly   मिला   जीना  in brackish  जल  .
Historically  ,   वे   have  been  of  major importance  in   कारीगर  fishing in Africa  और  the Levant ,  और  are of increasing importance in aquaculture  .
Tilapia can become  समस्यापूर्ण   हृदयरोग  species in new warm-water habitats , whether  deliberately   or  accidentally introduced  ,  but  generally  not  in  temperate climates due to their inability  to  survive in  कूलर  waters  नीचे  about .
Turner &  hooch  is  a  1989  कॉमेडी   नाटक   अपराधों  film starring  tom   हैंक्स   और  Beasley the Dog as the eponymous  वर्ण  ,  टर्नर   और  Hooch respectively  .
The  फिल्मी  also  सितारों  Mare Winningham , Craig  T.   नेल्सन  , and Reginald VelJohnson  .
It  थी   निर्देशित  by Roger  spottiswoode  ;  the   फिल्मी  was originally  slated  to  be  directed by Henry Winkler  ,  but he  थी  terminated  due   to  `` creative differences '' .
it   थी   co-written   by  Michael  blodgett  from  परे  the Valley  of   the   डॉल  fame .
हालांकि  K-9 (  साथ  James  belushi   )  was  released  prior  to  this  फिल्मी   (  exactly three months earlier  )  , Turner & Hooch  became  more  लोकप्रिय  and  seemingly  overshadowed  इसके  greater success  ,  even though  k-9   था  a very similar  प्लाट   .
a  pilot for  a  Turner & Hooch  tv  series  थी  made  और   भागा  as  a  part of  the   जादुई   संसार  of  डिज़्नी  .
इस  is  a   सूची   of   israeli  airports  ,   sorted   by  location .
प्रवेश   to  Ovda Airport
Terminal 3  at  Ben Gurion
Plane landing  at   be'er  Sheva ( Teyman )
Eilat  विमानक्षेत्र
एडोल्फ   हिटलर  ( ; 20 April 1889  –  30 April  1945  )  थी   an  Austrian -born German politician and the leader of the Nazi  पार्टी  (  (   nsdap  )  ;   नेशनल  Socialist German Workers Party ) .
he  was chancellor of Germany  इससे  1933 to 1945 and dictator of Nazi  जर्मनी   (  as Führer und  reichskanzler   )  from 1934 to 1945  .
हिटलर   थी  at  the   केन्द्र  of Nazi  जर्मनी  ,  संसार   युद्ध  II  in  Europe ,  और  the Holocaust  .
Hitler was  a   सजा   दिग्गज   of   संसार   युद्ध   i   .
he  joined the  जर्मनी  Workers  '  Party ( precursor  of  the NSDAP )  in   1919  , and became  नेता   of  the NSDAP in  1921   .
In  1923   ,  he attempted a coup d'état in Munich  ,  known as the Beer Hall Putsch .
The failed coup resulted in Hitler 's  कारावास  ,  दौरान   जिससे   समय  he  लिखा  his memoir , Mein Kampf  (  My  संघर्ष  ) .
After his release in 1924 , Hitler gained popular  support   by  attacking the  सन्धि  of Versailles  और   promoting  Pan-Germanism  ,   antisemitism   ,  and  anti-communism   साथ   charismatic  oratory  और  Nazi propaganda  .
After his  नियुक्ति  as chancellor  in   1933  , he  रूपांतरित   the  Weimar Republic into the Third Reich  ,   a   single-party  dictatorship based  on   the  totalitarian  और  autocratic ideology of Nazism .
Hitler 's aim was  to  establish  a   नई  Order of absolute Nazi German  आधिपत्य   in  continental Europe  .
to  this  समाप्त  ,  उसके   विदेशी  and domestic policies  था   the  aim  of  seizing Lebensraum  (  `` living space  ''  )  लिये  the Germanic  लोगों  .
He  निर्देशित  the rearmament of Germany and the  आक्रमण  of Poland by the Wehrmacht  in  September  1939   ,  resulting in  the   outbreak  of World War II in  यूरोपीय   .
अंतर्गत   हिटलर  's rule  ,  in 1941  जर्मनी  forces and their European allies occupied  सबसे   of  Europe and North Africa .
In  1943  ,  जर्मनी   था  been forced  onto  the defensive and suffered a series  of  escalating defeats  .
In the final days  of  the war , during  the   बैटल   of   बर्लिन   in  1945 ,  हिटलर   शादीशुदा  his long-time partner ,  एवा  Braun .
On 30 April 1945 , less than two days later  ,  the two committed suicide  to  avoid  कैप्चर   by  the  रेड  Army ,  और   उनके  corpses were burned  .
Hitler 's aggressive foreign  नीति  is considered  the  main  कारण  of the  outbreak  of World War II in Europe .
उसके  antisemitic policies and racially motivated ideology  resulted   in  the deaths  of   at  least 5.5 million  यहूदियों   ,  and millions of  अन्य   लोगों  deemed  racially  inferior .
अंगूठा
A  डोमेन  name is an identification  स्ट्रिंग   कि   defines  a  फ्रेम   of   प्रशासनिक  autonomy  ,  authority , or control on the  अंतरजाल   .
डोमेन   names   हैं   formed   by  the rules and procedures of the Domain Name System ( DNS  )  .
Technically  ,   कोई   नाम  registered in the DNS is a  डोमेन  name .
Domain  names   हैं  used in various  नेटवर्किंग  contexts  और  application-specific  नामकरण  and addressing  उद्देश्य   .
in   सामान्य  ,  a  domain  नाम  represents an  अंतरजाल  Protocol ( IP  )   संसाधन   ,   ऐसे   as  a  निजी  computer used  to  access  the  Internet  ,  a server computer hosting a web  साईट  ,  or  the  वेब   साईट  itself or any  अन्य  service  communicated  via  the  Internet .
Domain  names   हैं  organized  in   अधीनस्थ   स्तर  ( subdomains  )  of the DNS  रूट   डोमेन  ,  जिससे  is nameless  .
The  first-level   नियत  of  डोमेन   names  are the top-level  डोमेन  ( TLDs ) , including the generic top-level domains ( gTLDs  )  , such  as   the  prominent domains com ,  सूचना   ,   जाल  and org ,  और  the country code  top-level  domains ( ccTLDs ) .
नीचे  these top-level domains in the  डीएनएस  hierarchy are  the   second-level  and  third-level   डोमेन  names  कि  are  typically  open for reservation  by  end-users who wish to  कनेक्ट  local area networks to  the  Internet , create other publicly accessible Internet  संसाधन   or  run  वेब  sites  .
the  registration of these domain names is  प्रायः  administered by  डोमेन  name  registrars  who sell their  सेवाएं   to  the public  .
a   fully  qualified  डोमेन   नाम  (  fqdn  )  is   a   डोमेन  name  कि  is  completely   निर्दिष्ट   in   the  hierarchy of the DNS ,  having   no   omitted  parts .
Domain names  हैं   प्रायः   लिखा   in   लोअरकेस   ,  although  लेबल्स  in  the   डोमेन  Name System are case-insensitive .
नाइट्रेट  is  a   polyatomic  ion  साथ  the  आणविक  formula NO3− and a  आणविक  mass  of  62.0049  g/mol   .  Nitrates also  describe  the  सशुल्क   कार्यात्मक  group  rono2  .
ये   नाइट्रेट   esters  are  a  specialized class of explosives .
a  wheat  कटाई   in   idaho
This  फ़ोटो   इससे  a 1921  ज्ञानकोष   shows  a tractor  ploughing  a crop  फ़ील्ड  .
Agriculture  is  a  प्रमुख  industry  in  the  संयुक्त  States and the  देश   is   a  net  निर्यातक  of  खाना  .
as   of  the last census  of  agriculture  in   2007   ,   वहीँ  were  2.2  million  खेतो   ,  covering an  क्षेत्रफल   of  ,  an   औसत   of  per farm .
Although agricultural activity  occurs  in  सबसे  states  ,   it  is particularly  concentrated   in  the vast expanse of flat , arable land  ज्ञात   as  the Great Plains ,  जिससे   encompasses   the  central region of the nation  .
The Mpemba effect  ,  named after  tanzanian   छात्र   erasto   mpemba   ,  is the assertion  कि   warmer  water can  फ्रीज   तेज़  than colder water .
हालांकि   वहीँ  is  anecdotal  support for  the  effect , there is  no   अनुबंध  on  exactly  what  the  effect  is   और   अंतर्गत   कया  circumstances it occurs  .
वहीँ   have  been reports  of   समान  phenomena since  प्राचीन   टाइम्स   ,  although with  अपर्याप्त  detail for  the  claims to be replicated .
The phenomenon seems  contrary  to  ऊष्मागतिकी   ,  but  a   क्रमांक  of  संभावित  explanations  लिये  the effect  have  been proposed  .
Further  investigations   होगा  need  to  decide on a  precise   परिभाषा  of ``  जमने  ''  और  control a vast number of  starting  parameters in order  to  confirm or explain the effect .
the  Siamese ( , ) is  एक  of the first  distinctly  recognized  breeds  of Oriental cat .
The breed originated  in  Thailand (  formerly  known  as  Siam  )  , where they are one of  अनेक  native  breeds   और   हैं  called  wichian   mat  ( วิเชียรมาศ , a name  अर्थ  `` moon diamond '' )  .
in   the  20th  सदी   the  Siamese  बिल्ली  became  एक   of  the most  लोकप्रिय  breeds  in  Europe and  उत्तर  America .
Quality Food Centers (  qfc  )  is  a supermarket chain  आधारित  in Bellevue ,  वॉशिंगटन  ,  साथ  64  स्टोर्स  in  the  Puget Sound  प्रदेश  of  वॉशिंगटन  state and  in  the  पोर्टलैंड   ,   ऑरेगॉन  metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  .
in  economics ,  the  money supply or  धन  stock ,  is  the  कुल  amount  of   मौद्रिक   एसेट   उपलब्धियाँ   in  an  अर्थव्यवस्था  at a specific  समय  .
There are several  तरीके  to define  ``   धन   ,   ''  but  मानक  measures  प्रायः   शामिल  currency in circulation and  माँग  deposits  (  depositors ' easily accessed  एसेट   on  the books of  वित्तीय  institutions  )  .
Money  सप्लाई  data are  अंकित  and published , usually  by  the  सरकारी   or  the  सेंट्रल  bank of  the  country .
पब्लिक   और   निजी  sector  विश्लेषकों   have  long  monitored  changes in  धन  supply  क्युकी  of its effects  on   the  price  स्तर   ,  inflation , the exchange  रेट  and  the  business  साईकिल  .
कि  relation  between   धन   और   कीमतें   is  historically associated  साथ  the  मात्रा  theory  of   धन   .
There is  दमदार  empirical  प्रमाण  of  a   सीधा   संबंध  between  money-supply   विकास  and  long-term  price inflation  ,   at  least for rapid increases  in  the amount of  धन  in  the  economy .
That  is   ,  a  देश  such as  ज़िम्बाब्वे   जिससे  saw rapid  increases   in  its money  सप्लाई  also saw  रैपिड   increases  in  कीमतें   (  hyperinflation  )  .
This is  एक  reason for the reliance  on   मौद्रिक  policy as a  अर्थात्  of controlling  महंगाई  .
The  प्रकृति  of this causal chain is  the  subject of contention  .
कुछ   शास्त   अर्थशास्त्रियों  argue that the  धन   सप्लाई   is   endogenous  ( determined by  the   workings  of the  अर्थव्यवस्था  , not by the central bank ) and  कि   the  sources  of   महंगाई   जरूर  be found  in   the  distributional  ढांचा  of  the  economy .
In addition , those economists  देखकर  the central bank 's control over  the  money  सप्लाई   as   feeble  say  कि  there  हैं  two weak links  between  the growth of the  धन  supply  और  the inflation rate  .
First  ,  in the aftermath of a  मंदी   ,  when  अनेक  resources are underutilized  ,   an  increase  in   the   धन  supply can  कारण  a  sustained   बढ़ाएँ  in  रियल   उत्पादन   बजाय  of inflation .
दूसरी  , if  the  velocity  of  money ,  i.e.  , the ratio between nominal GDP  और  money supply , changes  ,  an  बढ़ाएँ   in  the  धन   सप्लाई  could have  either  no  प्रभाव   ,   an  exaggerated  प्रभाव  ,  or  an unpredictable effect on the growth of  नाममात्र  GDP .
लोगो   लिये  IMAX  .
Warren Theatre  imax   सिनेमा  , Wichita  ,  Kansas , USA , 601 seats  .
A comparison  between  35  mm  and 15/70  mm  negative  क्षेत्रों  .
IMAX ( an abbreviation for Image  अधिकतम   )   is  a motion picture film  स्वरूप  and  a  set of cinema projection standards created by the Canadian company  imax  Corporation .
IMAX  रै  the  क्षमता  to record  और  display images of far greater size  और   रेज़ोल्यूशन  than conventional film systems  .
Since  2002  , some feature films have been converted  (  or upgraded  )  into IMAX format for display in  imax   थिएटर   और  some have  भी   महरूम  partially shot in  imax  .
imax  is  the   सबसे   widely  used system for special-venue film  प्रस्तुतियों   .
,  वहीँ  are 697 IMAX theatres  in  52 countries .
आज   's  Special  is  a Canadian children  's  television show produced by Clive  vanderburgh  at TVOntario  इससे  1981 to 1987  .
it  also  भागा   on  Nickelodeon  और  the  आस्था   और  Values  channel/odyssey  (  अभी   the  Hallmark  चैनल  )  as   खूब   as  many PBS stations  throughout  the United States .
it   थी  set in  a  department store  ,   आधारित   on   the  flagship location  of  the now  defunct  Simpson 's in  टोरंटो  .
Many sequences  लिये  it  यहूद   शॉट   at  the Queen Street West and  yonge  Street store  बाद   घंटों   .
Constitutionalism  ,  in  इसके   सबसे   सामान्य  meaning  ,  is  ``  a complex of  विचार  , attitudes  ,   और   पैटर्न  of behavior  elaborating   the  principle that  the  authority  of   सरकारी   गर्भाशयी   इससे   और  is  सीमित   by  a body of  आधारभूत   विधि  '' .
A political organization  is   संवैधानिक  to the  extent   कि  it `` contain [ s  ]   institutionalized  mechanisms  of  power control for  the  protection of the  रूचि   और   लिबर्टीज  of the  citizenry  , including  those   कि  may be in  the  minority `` .
As  वर्णित  by  राजनैतिक  scientist and  संवैधानिक  scholar  दाउद   fellman   :
An ice-cream headache ,  भी  known as brain freeze , cold-stimulus headache  ,   or   इसके  given scientific name sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia  (   अर्थ   ``  nerve  पीड़ा  of  the  sphenopalatine ganglion  ``   )  , is a form of  ब्रैड   cranial   पीड़ा   or  headache commonly associated with consumption ( particularly quick  खपत  ) of cold beverages or foods such  as  ice cream  और  ice pops  .
It is  caused  by  having  something cold touch the roof  of   the  mouth ( palate  )   ,  and  is  believed  to   परिणाम   इससे   a  nerve response  causing  rapid constriction  और  swelling of blood vessels  or  a ``  referring   ``  of pain  इससे  the  छत  of  the  mouth to  the  head  .
the   रेट   of   सेवन   लिये  cold foods  रै   महरूम   पढ़ाई   as  a  contributing  factor .
वहीँ  are people  जो  can not experience  ``  brain freeze '' or  समान  symptoms .
The term  ice-cream  headache has  महरूम  in  उपयोग  since at least 31  जनवरी  1937  ,   contained  in  a   जर्नल  entry  by  Rebecca Timbres published  in   the   1939  book  we   किया  n't ask  यूटोपिया  : a  quaker  family in Soviet Russia .
the  first  प्रकाशित  use of  the  term  दिमाग  freeze  ,  as it pertains to cold-induced  headaches  ,  थी   on  27 May  1991  .
``  Auld Lang  syne  '' (  :   नोट   ``  s ''  बल्कि   than   ``  z '' ) is  a   स्कॉट्स   कविता   लिखा  by Robert Burns in  1788   और  set  to   the  tune of  a   परंपरागत   लोक  song  (  Roud  #  6294 ) .
it  is well known in many countries  ,   विशेषकर  in the English-speaking  संसार  ; its  परंपरागत   उपयोग  being  to  celebrate  the  start of  the  New Year  at   the  stroke  of   मध्यरात्रि   .
By extension , it is also sung at funerals ,  graduations  and  as  a farewell  or  ending to  अन्य   अवसरों   .
the  international Boy  स्काउट  youth movement ,  in   अनेक  countries  ,   उपयोग  it as a  बंद  to jamborees  और  other  कृत्यों   .
The song 's Scots title  may  be translated into English  वस्तुतः   as  ``  बूढ़ा  long since '' , or more idiomatically , ``  long   long  ago  ''   ,  `` days gone by  ''  or  ``  old  टाइम्स   ''  .
Consequently `` For auld  लैंग  syne '' , as  it  appears  in  the first  लकीर  of  the   कोरस   ,  might  be   loosely  translated  as  ``  लिये   (   the  sake  of   )  old times ''  .
the  phrase `` Auld Lang Syne ''  is   भी  used  in  similar poems by  रॉबर्ट   ayton   (  1570–1638  )   ,   allan   ramsay   (   1686–1757   )  ,  और   जेम्स  Watson (  1711  )  as   खूब   as  older  लोक  songs  predating   burns  .
Matthew  fitt  uses  the   phrase   ``  In  the   दिनों  of  auld   लैंग   syne   ''  as  the   समतुल्य  of `` Once upon  a  time ...
`` in his retelling  of  fairy  किस्से  in the Scots  भाषा  .
Ben  schulz   ,  player  of   leeroy  Jenkins  at   blizzcon  2007
leeroy  Jenkins ,  sometimes   misspelled  Leroy Jenkins  और  often  elongated  with numerous  अतिरिक्त  letters  ,   is  an Internet  मीम  named for  a  player character created  by   बेन  Schulz in Blizzard  entertainment   's  MMORPG ,  संसार   of   warcraft  .
The  अक्षर  became  लोकप्रिय   due  to  a  video of the  खेल  that circulated around  the  Internet .
The phenomenon has  चूंकि   स्प्रेड  beyond  the   सीमाएँ   of  the gaming  जातियाँ  into  अन्य  online and mainstream media  .
Oscar Grant was  fatally  shot by BART  पुलिस   अधिकारी  Johannes Mehserle in  ओकलैंड  , California ,  संयुक्त   राज्य   ,  in  the  early morning  घंटों  of New  साल  's  दिन   2009  .
Responding  to  reports  of   a   लड़ो  on a crowded  खाड़ी  Area  रैपिड  Transit  ट्रैन  returning  इससे  San Francisco , BART  पुलिस   अधिकारियों   detained  Oscar Grant  और   अनेक   अन्य  passengers on the platform at the  fruitvale   बार्ट  Station .
अधिकारी   योहानेस  Mehserle and another officer  यहूद  restraining Grant  ,  who was prostrate and allegedly resisting  गिरफ़्तार   .
Officer Mehserle  stood  and ,  according  to  गवाह  , said : ``  मिलेंगी  back , I  'm  gon na tase him  .   ''
तब   mehserle  drew  उसके   गन  and  शॉट  Grant once  in   the   वापस  ;  mehserle  appeared stunned ,  put  his hands to his head and  exclaimed  , ``  oh   ,  my  परमेश्वर   !  ''
During his court testimony  ,  Mehserle said  कि  Grant then exclaimed  ,  `` You shot me  !  ''
Grant turned  आउट   to   be  unarmed ;  he  was pronounced dead  the   अगला   morning   at  Highland Hospital  in  Oakland .
The  कार्यक्रम  were  captured  on  अनेक   डिजिटल   वीडियो   और   कोशिका  phone cameras  .
The footage  थी   disseminated  to media outlets  और  to various  वेबसाइटों  ,  जहाँ  it was watched millions  of   टाइम्स   .
The following  दिनों   देखी   दोनो  peaceful and  हिंसक  protests .
The  शूटिंग   रै  been  variously   labeled   an  involuntary  manslaughter   और   a   सारांश   निष्पादन   .
On  जनवरी  13  ,  Alameda  काउंटी   prosecutors  charged  mehserle  with  हत्या   लिये  the shooting .
he  resigned  उसके  position  और  pleaded not guilty  .
The trial began  on  June 10 ,  2010  .
Michael  rains  , Mehserle 's criminal  रक्षा  attorney , argued  कि  Mehserle  mistakenly  shot Grant  साथ   उसके  pistol , intending to  उपयोग  his Taser  जब   he   देखी   ग्रान्ट  reaching  लिये   उसके   waistband   .
Pretrial  filings   argue  that his client did not  कमिट  first-degree murder  और  asked a Los Angeles judge  to  instruct  the  jury  to  limit its deliberations to  either  second-degree murder or acquittal .
ओकलैंड  civil  अधिकारों  attorney John  burris  filed  a  $  25   लाख  wrongful death  अर्जी  against  बार्ट   on  behalf of Grant 's  परिवार  .
On  जुलाई  8  ,  2010  ,  the jury  लौटे   इसके  verdict :  mehserle   थी   मिला  guilty of  involuntary  manslaughter and  नहीं  guilty  of  second-degree murder and voluntary  manslaughter  .
आरंभिक   विरोध  against  the  ruling were peacefully  व्यवस्थित   ;  looting , arson ,  विनाश  of property ,  और  small  दंगे  broke out after dark .
nearly  80 people were eventually arrested .
On  शुक्रवार  , July 9 , 2010  ,   the   u.S.  Justice Department opened  a   सिविल   अधिकारों  case  विरूद्ध  Mehserle ;  the  federal  सरकारी  can  prosecute  him independently for  the   वही  act under the  पृथक  sovereigns  एक्सेप्शन   to  double jeopardy .
The Department of Justice will  be   working  with  the   u.S.  Attorney 's office in San Francisco and  the  FBI  .
on  November 5  ,   2010   ,   mehserle  was  sentenced  to two years ,  ऋण   समय   परोसा  .
He served his time in  the   लॉस  Angeles County Jail , occupying a private  कोशिका  away  इससे  other prisoners .
He was released  on   जून  13  ,  2011 and is  अभी  on  पैरोल   .
Major  प्रतिनिधि  of the Harlem Renaissance  .
the  Harlem  पुनर्जागरण  was  a  cultural movement that spanned  the   1920s  .
At  the  time ,  it  was  ज्ञात   as   the   ``  New  नीग्रो  Movement  ''  , named after the  1925   anthology  by Alain Locke .
Though  it  was centered in the Harlem neighborhood  of  New York City  ,   अनेक  French-speaking  ब्लैक   लेखक   इससे   अफ़्रीकी  and  caribbean  colonies who  जिया  in Paris  यहूद   भी   बहकावे  by the Harlem  पुनर्जागरण  .
the  Harlem Renaissance is unofficially  पहचाना   to  have  spanned   इससे  about 1919  जबतक  the early or mid-1930s  .
Many  of  its ideas  जिया  on much longer  .
the  zenith  of   इस   ``  flowering  of   नीग्रो  literature '' ,  as  James Weldon Johnson  पसन्दीदा   to   कॉल   the  Harlem Renaissance  ,   थी  placed  between  1924 ( the year  कि  Opportunity :  a   जर्नल  of  नीग्रो  Life hosted a  पार्टी  for  ब्लैक  writers  जहाँ  many  श्वेत  publishers  यहूद  in attendance ) and 1929  (  the year  of  the stock market  क्रैश   और   the   शुरूआत   of  the Great Depression ) .
African  राज्य   between   500   bce  and 1500 CE
obelisk  at  टेम्पल   of  Luxor  ,  Egypt  .
c. 1200  bce  .
अफ़्रीकी  knight  of  Baguirmi  in  full padded armour suit .
The  इतिहास  of  अफ़्रीकी  begins with the prehistory of Africa and the  emergence   of   होमो   sapiens   in  East Africa , continuing into  the  present as  a   patchwork  of diverse and politically developing  स्वदेश  states  .
Some  जल्दी  evidence of agriculture in  अफ़्रीकी   तिथियाँ  from  16,000  BCE  ,  and  metallurgy   इससे   परिचय   4000  BCE  .
The recorded history  of  early civilization arose  in  Egypt ,  और  later in  नुबिया   ,   the  Maghreb and the Horn of Africa  .
During  the  Middle  आयु  ,  islam  spread through the regions  .
क्रासिंग  the Maghreb  और  the Sahel ,  a  major  बीच   of   मुस्लिम  culture  थी   टिम्बकटू  .
Some  notable   pre-colonial  states and societies  in  Africa include the  nok  culture , Mali  साम्राज्य   ,  Ashanti Empire  ,  Kingdom  of   mapungubwe  , Kingdom of Sine , Kingdom  of  Saloum ,  किंगडम   of  Baol , Kingdom of Zimbabwe  ,   किंगडम   of   kongo   ,   प्राचीन  Carthage , Numidia ,  mauretania   ,   the  Aksumite Empire , the Ajuuraan  राज्य   और  the Adal Sultanate  .
From the late 15th  सदी  , Europeans  और  Arabs  took   स्लेव  from West , Central and Southeast  अफ़्रीकी  overseas in  the  African slave trade .
European  colonization  of Africa developed  rapidly   in  the Scramble for  अफ़्रीकी  of  the  late  19th  and early 20th centuries  .
Following  struggles   लिये   स्वतंत्रता  in many  भाग   of   the   महाद्वीप  , as well as a  weakened   यूरोपीय  after the Second World  युद्ध  ; decolonization took  प्लेस  .
अफ़्रीकी   's   इतिहास   रै  been challenging  लिये   शोधकर्ताओं  in the field of African  अध्ययन   क्युकी  of the scarcity of  लिखा  sources in large parts of sub-Saharan Africa .
scholarly   तकनीकों   ऐसे  as the  रिकॉर्डिंग  of  मौखिक  history , historical  भाषाविज्ञान  ,  पुरातत्व   और   आनुवंशिकी  have been crucial  .
curry  Foley  थी  the first player in Major  लीग  Baseball  इतिहास   to  hit  लिये   the  cycle  .
in   बेसबॉल   ,  hitting  लिये  the cycle  is  the  accomplishment  of  एक   बैटर   hitting   a  single ,  a  double  ,   a  triple ,  और   a  home run  in  the same game .
Collecting the  हिट्स   in  that order  is   ज्ञात  as  a   ``  natural  साईकिल   ''   .
चक्र  are  uncommon  in  प्रमुख   लीग  Baseball  (  MLB ) ,  और  have occurred  294  times since the  पहला  by Curry  फोली  in 1882 .
the  cycle  is  roughly  as   आम  as  a  no-hitter  (  279 occurrences in  एमएलबी   इतिहास  )  ;  it has been called `` one of the rarest  ''  and `` most  मुश्किल   feats  ''  in   बेसबॉल  .
आधारित  on  2009   अप्रिय  levels , the  संभाव्यता  of an average  एमएलबी   खिलाड़ी   hitting   लिये  a cycle  विरूद्ध   an  average  टोली  in a game  is  approximately  0.00590   %   ;  this  corresponds  to about  2.5  cycles in a 162-game  ऋतु  with 30  टीमों  .
in  other  बेसबॉल  leagues  ,   the  cycle is achieved less frequently .
through  September 4  ,  2008 ,  62  players  in   निप्पन  Professional  बेसबॉल   (  NPB  )   ,  the top-level baseball organization in Japan , have hit for the cycle ,  the  most recent being Michihiro  ogasawara   .
Two players have hit for the cycle  on  the  वही   दिन   एकबार   in  NPB  इतिहास  ; this  रै   occurred  twice in  एमएलबी   इतिहास  .
एक  NPB player has also hit for the cycle in  an  NPB All-Star game  .
no   खिलाड़ी   रै  ever hit  लिये  the cycle in the MLB All-Star Game or  the   postseason   .
The main  स्लेव  routes  in  medieval  अफ़्रीकी   .
This  आलेख  discusses  प्रणालियों   ,  history  ,   और   प्रभाव  of  गुलामी  within Africa .
See Arab  स्लेव   व्यापार  ,  अटलांटिक  slave  व्यापार  ,  maafa  , and Slavery  in  contemporary  अफ़्रीकी  for other discussions .
``  स्लेव   हस्तांतरण  in Africa '' .
Europeans  प्रायः  did not enter the interior regions  .
गुलामी  in Africa  रै  existed  throughout   the   महाद्वीप  for many  सदियां   ,   और   continues  in  the   वर्तमान   दिन  .
Systems of servitude  और  slavery  यहूद  common  in  many parts  of   the  continent  ,  as  वे  were  in  much of the  प्राचीन  world .
In most African societies  जहाँ  slavery was  प्रचलित  , the  enslaved  people were  largely   treated  as  indentured  servants and not treated as chattel slaves  .
When  the   अरब   स्लेव   व्यापार  and Atlantic slave trade  began   ,   अनेक  of the local  स्लेव   प्रणालियों  changed and began  supplying   captives   लिये  slave markets  बाहर  of Africa  .
गुलामी   in  historical  अफ़्रीकी  was practiced in many different forms  और  some  of   ये   do  not clearly fit the  परिभाषाएं   of   गुलामी   elsewhere  in the  संसार  .
कर्ज़  slavery  ,  enslavement  of   युद्ध   captives   ,  military  गुलामी   ,   और  criminal  गुलामी  were  सब  practiced in  विभिन्न  parts of Africa  .
Although  वहीँ   था  been  कुछ  trans-Saharan  व्यापार  from  the   आंतरिक  of Sub-Saharan Africa  to   अन्य   regions  ,  गुलामी  was  a   छोटी  part  of   the  economic  जीवन  of many  समाजों   in  Africa until  the   परिचय  of transcontinental slave  ट्रेड  (  अरब  and Atlantic  )  .
स्लेव  practices  यहूद   again  transformed  साथ  European  colonization  of  अफ़्रीकी  and the  औपचारिक  abolition  of  slavery in the early  1900s  .
Windows Task Manager  is   a  task manager  or  System monitor application included with  the  Microsoft  खिड़कियाँ  NT  परिवार  of  ऑपरेटिंग  systems  कि   provides   सीमित  information about computer performance  और  running applications , processes and  cpu  usage ,  कमिट  charge and memory  सूचना   ,   संजाल  activity  और  statistics ,  logged-in  users , and system  सेवाएं   (  and  as  often  is  the case with software tools  provided  by Microsoft for  खिड़कियाँ  ,  3rd  party software  is   उपलब्धियाँ   जिससे  fills  the   आवश्यकताएँ  more  thoroughly  , e.g  ,  ``  प्रक्रम  Explorer  ''  , `` Extended Task  मैनेजर  ''  ,  ``  anvir  Task Manager '' , `` Process Hacker ''  ,  and  ``  System Explorer ''  )  .
The Task  मैनेजर   can   भी  be used  to   नियत  process  प्राथमिकताएं  ,  प्रोसेसर  affinity  ,   forcibly   terminate   प्रक्रियाओं  ,  और   shut   bas  , restart  ,   hibernate  or log  बंद  from  खिड़कियाँ  .
खिड़कियाँ  Task Manager was  introduced  with Windows  nt  4.0  .
Previous versions of  खिड़कियाँ   nt  included the  कार्य  List application , which had  दूर  fewer features .
The task list  थी  capable  of  listing currently running processes  और   हत्या  them ,  or  creating a  नई  process .
In  खिड़कियाँ   xp  only ,  a  Shutdown  मेनू  is also present  कि  allows access to Standby ,  hibernate  , Turn  बंद   ,  Restart  ,   log  Off and Switch  उपयोक्ता   .
Earlier versions of  microsoft   खिड़कियाँ  ( Microsoft Windows 3.x ,  खिड़कियाँ   95   ,   खिड़कियाँ   98   )  had a program  ज्ञात   as  tasks to display  the  programs currently  कार्यशील  .
This file  थी  executed  by   कार्यशील  the  taskman.exe  file from the C :  \खिड़कीs  directory  .
the  Troop  is  an American-Canadian live-action , single  कैमरा  comedy  -adventure   टेलीविज़न   श्रेणी  about  a  trio of  teenagers   जो   लड़ो  and capture monsters and  अन्य  supernatural  phenomena  that  invade   the   fictional   कस्बा  of  lakewood   .
निर्मित  and executive produced  by  Max  burnett  , Greg  कूलिज  and Chris Morgan  ,  the series premiered  on   निकलोडियन   on  September  18  ,  2009  .
The  दूसरी   ऋतु   premiered   on  June  25  ,  2011  and Nickelodeon cancelled  the  series midway through it  's  second  ऋतु  .
The  बाकी  episodes  of  season 2  यहूद  aired on Nicktoons except the  पिछला  3..
Sparsely  आबादी   in  relation to its area ,  the  Democratic  गणतंत्र  of the Congo (  drc  )  is  home  to  a vast  संभावित  of  प्राकृतिक  resources  और  mineral wealth , its untapped  जमा  of  कच्चा  minerals are  अनुमानित  to  be  worth  in  excess  of  US $  24  trillion , yet  the   अर्थव्यवस्था  of the DRC has declined  drastically  since  the  mid-1980s .
at  the  समय  of its independence in 1960  ,   drc  was the second most  industrialized  country  in   अफ़्रीकी  after  दक्षिण  Africa  ;  it boasted a  thriving  mining sector  और  its agriculture sector was relatively productive .
If the viewer stares at  इस  image for 20–60 seconds and stares at  a   श्वेत  object  ,   a   ऋणात्मक   afterimage  will appear  (  in this  मामला  , it will be cyan on magenta )  .
इस  can also be  हासिल  by  the   दर्शक   closing  his/her eyes and tilting their  सिर   up   .
an  afterimage or  भुत  image or image burn-in is  an  optical  भ्रम  that refers  to   an  image  continuing   to  appear  in  one  's  vision after the exposure  to   the  original  चित्र  has  ceased   .
एक  of the most  आम  afterimages  is  the bright glow that seems  to  float  पहले  one  's  eyes  बाद   looking  into  a  light  सोर्स  for a  few  seconds  .
Closing the  नजर  can help  achieve  a better  भाव  of the color in its own  पहलू   .
Afterimages  आइये  in  दो  forms ,  ऋणात्मक  (  उलट  ) and  धनात्मक  ( retaining original color  )  .
the  process  पीछे  positive  afterimages   is  unknown , though thought to be related  to   neural  adaptation  .
On the other  हाथ  , negative  afterimages   हैं  a retinal phenomenon and  हैं  well  समझा  .
Lost is  an  American serial drama television series  कि   premiered  on September  22  ,  2004   on  the American Broadcasting Company ( ABC  )  .
The series was  निर्मित   by   J.  J. Abrams and Damon Lindelof  ,   आधारित  upon an original pilot script titled Nowhere written  by   जेफरी   lieber   .
छह  seasons  of  the show aired ,  in  addition  to  numerous clip  shows  to recap  पिछला   एपीसोड  .
एबीसी  announced that Lost would  समाप्त  after six seasons  ,  having  उत्पादित   a  total of 121 episodes .
The series follows the  पास्ट   ,  present , and  भविष्य  experience  (   s   )  of the  survivors  of a  प्लेन   क्रैश   on   a  passenger jet  ,  Oceanic  उड़ान   815   ,  flying from Sydney  to   लॉस  Angeles  बाद  it  क्रैश   on   a  tropical island in  the   दक्षिण  Pacific .
The series also includes  कहानियां  of the lives of  लोगों   already   जीना  on  the  island — they include the  ``   अन्य   ``   ,  who initially antagonize  the  survivors , as well as a group  of  people  जो   arrive  on the  freighter  Kahana .
Each  एपीसोड  typically features action on  the  island as  खूब  as a  द्वितीयक  storyline  इससे   another  point  in   a   अक्षर  's  जीवन  .
Season 6 features a detailing  of  the  जीवनदान  of the survivors in  a  different reality , as if  the  flight had never  क्रैश   .
In the following list , the term ``  प्रदर्शित   अक्षर  ( s )  ''   refers   to  the character  or   वर्ण  who  हैं   प्रदर्शित   in  the secondary  कथानक  of each  एपीसोड  .
``  no  .
in  श्रेणी   ''   refers  to the episode 's number in the overall series  ,   whereas  `` No  .
in season  ''  refers to  the  episode 's  क्रमांक  in  प्रत्येक   particular  season .
`` U.S.  दर्शक  (  लाख  ) ''  refers   to  the number of  अमेरिकी   in   लाखो  who watched the episode live  .
a  total of 121 episodes of  खोया  were produced  ,   the  last of  जिससे  aired on  may  23 , 2010 .
All seasons are available  on   dvd  in Regions 1–4 and  on  Blu-ray  in  Regions A and B .
Flat  फीट   (   भी   पुकारा  pes  planus   or  fallen arches  )  is a  औपचारिक  reference to  a   चिकित्सा   कंडीशन   in   जिससे  the arch of the foot  collapses  ,  साथ  the  संपूर्ण  sole  of  the foot coming into  पूरा  or  near-complete  contact  साथ   the  ground  .
in   कुछ  individuals (  an  estimated 20–30  %   of  the general population  )  the arch simply never develops in  एक  foot (  unilaterally  ) or  दोनो  feet  (  bilaterally )  .
Three  अध्ययन  (  देखिए   citations  below in  सैन्य   खण्ड  )  of  military recruits have shown no  प्रमाण  of  बाद  increased injury  ,   or  foot  समस्याएं  , due to flat feet ,  in  a population  of  people who reach military service age  बगैर  prior  पैर  problems  .
However  ,  these studies  can   नहीं  be  प्रयुक्त  to  न्यायधीश  possible  भविष्य   क्षति  from this  कंडीशन  when diagnosed at younger ages .
वे   भी  can not  be   लागू   to  persons whose flat  फीट   हैं  associated with  पैर   लक्षण  , or  निश्चित  symptoms in other parts of  the  body (  ऐसे   as  the  लेग  or back )  संभवतः  referable to  the   पैर   .
पीढी  X  ,  commonly  abbreviated   to  Gen X  ,   is  the  पीढी  born after the Western post-World War II  baby  boom  .
Demographers ,  इतिहासकारों   और  commentators  उपयोग  beginning birth dates from the early  1960s  to  the  early 1980s .
The  पद  was  popularized  by  डगलस  Coupland  's   1991   अनोखा  Generation  x   :   किस्से  for an Accelerated  संस्कृति  .
पहले  that ,  it  had  महरूम  used  लिये   विभिन्न   subcultures  or  countercultures  after the  1950s  .
दबाव   छाले  , also known as  decubitus   छाले  or  bedsores   ,  are  स्थानीयकृत  injuries to  the   स्किन  and/or underlying  ऊतक  usually over a  बोनी   prominence   ,  as  a  result  of  pressure  ,  or  दबाव   in  combination with shear  and/or   घर्षण  .
Most commonly  इस  will  be  the sacrum , coccyx , heels  or  the hips  ,  but other sites such as the  elbows   ,  knees , ankles or  the   वापस   of   the   cranium  can  be  affected  .
the  cause of  दबाव  ulcers is pressure applied  to  soft tissue so  कि  blood  प्रवाह  to the soft tissue is completely  or  partially obstructed  .
Shear is  भी   a   कारण  ; shear  खींचता   on  blood  बरतन   कि  feed the skin .
Pressure ulcers most commonly  develop  in  व्यक्तियों  who  हैं  not moving about  or  are confined to  wheelchairs  .
it   is   widely  believed  कि  other factors  can   influence  the  सहिष्णुता  of skin for  दबाव  and  shear   thereby  increasing the risk  of  pressure  अल्सर  development  .
ये  factors are protein-calorie  कुपोषण  , microclimate (  स्किन   wetness  caused by sweating  or  incontinence  )   ,  diseases  कि   reduce   रक्त   प्रवाह   to  the skin ,  ऐसे  as arteriosclerosis or  रोगों  that  reduce  the  अहसास  in the skin  ,  such as paralysis or neuropathy .
the  healing of pressure ulcers  may  be slowed by the age of the person  ,   चिकित्सा   शर्तें   (  such  as  arteriosclerosis ,  मधुमेह   or  infection ) , smoking  or   medications  such as antiinflammatory drugs  .
Although often prevented and treatable  if  found  जल्दी  ,  दबाव   छाले  can be very  मुश्किल  to prevent in critically ill patients , frail elders , wheelchair users  (  especially where spinal  चोट   is   शामिल  ) and terminally  बीमार   मरीजों  .
Primary prevention  is  to redistribute  दबाव   by  turning the  रोगी  regularly  .
The benefit of  turning  to avoid further sores  is  well  प्रलेखित  since at least  the  19th  सदी  .
In addition  to   turning  and re-positioning  the  patient  in  bed  or  wheelchair , eating a balanced diet  साथ   पर्याप्त  protein and keeping the skin free from  एक्सपोज़र  to  मूत्र  and stool is very important .
the  prevalence of pressure ulcers  in   हॉस्पिटल  settings  is   ऊँची   ,   लकिन  improvements are  होने   बना   .
According to the  2010   ipup  ( International Pressure  अल्सर   व्यापकता  Survey  )  conducted in  कनाडा  , there was a significant  घटी  in the  overall  facility-acquired  व्यापकता  of pressure  छाले  from  2009-2010  .
Ulcers  यहूद  most commonly identified at the sacral/coccyx ulcer location ; however , heel  छाले   यहूद   the  most common facility-acquired location in the  सर्वेक्षण   .
overboard   is  a  1987   अमरीकी  romantic  कॉमेडी  film starring  goldie  Hawn  और  Kurt  रसेल  .
it  was directed  by   गैरी  Marshall  ,   उत्पादित  by Roddy McDowell ,  और   loosely  inspired by the  1974   इतालवी   फिल्मी  Swept Away .
in   फेरे   ,   overboard  was adapted  into  the 2006  दक्षिण   कोरियाई  television series  ,   युगल   or   ट्रबल  .
ग्रीन  Bay is a  नगर  in  और  the  काउंटी  seat of Brown  काउंटी   in   the  U.S.  राज्य  of Wisconsin , located at  the  head of  ग्रीन  Bay  ,   a  sub-basin of Lake Michigan , at the  मुँह   of  the Fox  नदी  .
it   रै  an elevation  of  above sea level and  is   स्तिथ   उत्तर   of  Milwaukee .
The population was 104,057 at the  2010  census  .
It is  the   third-largest  city in the  राज्य  of  विस्कॉन्सिन  ,  बाद   मिल्वौकी  and Madison .
it   is  also the third-largest  नगर   on   the  west shore of Lake Michigan  ,  after  शिकागो   और   मिल्वौकी  .
ग्रीन   खाड़ी  is  घर   to  the  ग्रीन  Bay  पैकर्स   of  the  नेशनल  Football  लीग  ,  बनाना  it by far the  smallest   महानगर   क्षेत्रफल   in   the  USA to  मेजबान  a major  पेशेवर  sports franchise .
ग्रीन   खाड़ी   is   the  principal  नगर  of the Green Bay  महानगर  Statistical  क्षेत्रफल  , which covers Brown , Kewaunee , and Oconto Counties  और  had  a   संयुक्त   जनसांख्यिकी  of  282,599   at   the  2000 census  .
ग्रीन  Bay is an  औद्योगिक  city  साथ   अनेक  meatpacking and  पेपर  plants , and a  बंदरगाहों   on  Green Bay ,  an  arm of  झील  Michigan that  स्थानीय   कॉल  the Bay of Green Bay  ,   to  avoid conflating it  साथ   the  eponymous  नगर  .
It  is   घर   to  the National Railroad  संग्रहालय   ;   the  Neville Public Museum  ,  with exhibitions  of   आर्ट  ,  इतिहास  ,  और  science  ;  and the  विश्वविद्यालयों   of  Wisconsin–Green  खाड़ी  .
luteinizing  hormone ( LH , also known  as   lutropin   और   sometimes  lutrophin )  is   a   हार्मोन   उत्पादित  by gonadotroph  कोशिकाएं   in   the  anterior pituitary gland .
In females  ,  an acute  वृद्धि  of LH  (  ``  lh   surge   ''  )  triggers   ovulation  and development of the  कॉर्पस   luteum   .
In males , where  lh  had also been called  अंतरालीय   cell-stimulating  hormone ( ICSH  )   ,   it  stimulates Leydig cell  उत्पादन  of testosterone .
it   अधिनियमों  synergistically  साथ   fsh  .
Selena  quintanilla-pérez  (  अप्रैल  16  ,  1971 –  कूच  31 ,  1995   )  ,  ज्ञात  simply  as  Selena ,  थी  an American singer-songwriter .
She was named the  ``  top Latin  कलाकार  of  the   '90s  '' and ``  बेहतरीन  selling Latin  कलाकार  of the  दशक  ''  by   बिलबोर्ड  for her fourteen top-ten singles  in   the   शीर्ष  Latin Songs chart , including  सात  number-one hits .
सेलिना   था   the   सबसे  successful  singles  of 1994  और  1995 , ``  amor  Prohibido  ``  and `` No  me  Queda Más ``  .
She was called  ``  The Queen of  tejano   म्यूज़िक   ``   और  the Mexican  समतुल्य  of  मैडोना  .
Selena released  उसके  first  एल्बम  ,  सेलिना  y Los Dinos  ,  at the  आयु  of twelve  .
वो  won Female Vocalist  of  the Year  at   the   1987  Tejano Music Awards and  उतरा   a  recording  अनुबंध  with  emi  a  few  years later .
उसके  fame grew  throughout  the  जल्दी   1990s  ,  विशेषकर  in  spanish-speaking   देशों   ,   और  she  था  begun recording in English as  खूब  .
Selena  थी  murdered at the age of 23 on  कूच  31 , 1995 by Yolanda  saldívar  , the  पूर्व  president of  उसके   प्रशंसक  club .
on  April 12 , 1995 , two weeks  बाद  her death  ,   जार्ज   W.  Bush , governor of  टेक्सास  at  the  time ,  घोषित  her birthday ``  सेलिना   दिन  '' in  टेक्सास  .
Warner Bros. produced Selena , a  फिल्मी  based on  उसके  life starring  जेनिफर   लोपेज़   ,   in   1997  .
सेलिना   's  life was  भी  the basis of the musical Selena Forever starring Veronica  vazquez  as Selena .
in   जून  2006  सेलिना   थी   commemorated  with  a  life-sized bronze statue (  mirador   de   la  Flor in  कॉर्पस   christi   ,   टेक्सास   )   और   a  Selena museum opened there  .
She has  बेची   over   60  million albums  विश्वव्यापी  ,  बनाना   उसके   एक  of the best-selling artists  of  all  समय   .
She is  भी   the   तभी   मादा  artist  to  have  पाँच   एल्बम   in   u.s   .   बिलबोर्ड  200  at   the  same  समय  .
जर्मनी   stahlhelm  from World War II
Insignia  of  the Bolivian Army Colorados regiment  ,   प्रर्दशित  a Stahlhelm  और  two  crossed   bayonets
stahlhelm   (   बहुवचन   ,  Stahlhelme  )   is  German for `` steel helmet ''  .
The  इम्पीरियल   जर्मनी   फौज  began  to  replace the traditional boiled-leather Pickelhaube ( spiked combat  हेल्मेट  ) with the Stahlhelm during World War  i   in  1916  .
The  पद  Stahlhelm refers both to a  जेनेरिक   स्टील  helmet  ,  and  अधिक  specifically to  the  distinctive ( and iconic ) German design  .
The Stahlhelm  ,  with  इसके   distinctive   ``   कोयले  scuttle ``  आकार  , was  an  instantly  recognizable  icon  लिये   सैन्य  imagery and  became  a common  तत्व  of military propaganda on  दोनो  sides , just like  the  Pickelhaube before  it  .
इसके   नाम   थी   भी  used  by   the  Stahlhelm , a  अर्धसैनिक   राष्ट्रवादी   संगठन  established at the end of 1918 .
glow-in-the-dark   may  refer to:
जीवदीप्ति   ,   the  production  और   उत्सर्जन  of light  by  a  जीना   सजीव
Chemiluminescence  ,   is   the   उत्सर्जन  of light  (   संदीप्ति   )  without  उत्सर्जन  of  ऊष्मा
Phosphorescence , a specific type  of   photoluminescence   सम्बन्धित  to fluorescence
radioluminescence   ,  production  of  luminescence  in   a  material by the bombardment of  आयनकारी  radiation
Glow in  the  Dark  दौरे  ,  a   2008  concert tour by Kanye West
फ्रैंकफर्ट   विमानक्षेत्र   serves  as a hub city for  लुफ़्थान्सा  and  receives  flights  इससे   स्टार   गठबंधन   वाहक   .
Airline hubs  हैं   एयरपोर्ट   क्रमित  as large ,  मीडियम  ,  छोटी  ,  और  non-hubs  as   एक  of the FAA  विमानक्षेत्र   श्रेणी   जिससे  are re-evaluated every year based  on   क्रमांक  of commercial  यात्री  .
the   अधिक  common but  अनौपचारिक  use for the  phrase  airline hub is an airport that an  एयरलाइन  uses as  a   ट्रांसफ़र   पाइंट  to get  यात्री  to  उनके   intended   गंतव्य   .
it  is  भाग  of a  हब   और   spoke   मॉडल  , where  travelers   चलती  between airports not  परोसा  by  सीधा  flights  बदलें   planes  en  रूट  to their destinations .
इस   is   as  opposed to  the  Point to  पाइंट   मॉडल  .
Many hubs of the airlines are  भी  situated at airports  in  the cities of the  संबंधित  head  कार्यालयों  .
Some airlines  may  use only a  सिंगल   हब  ,  जबकि   अन्य  airlines use multiple  hubs  .
Hubs  हैं  used for  दोनो   यात्री   फ़्लाइट  as well  as   कार्गो  flights .
अनेक   एयरलाइंस  also use focus  शहरों  , which function  much   the  same as hubs  .
Airlines  may   भी  use secondary hubs  ,  a  non-technical   पद  for  विशाल  focus  शहरों   .
a  hub in  the   मध्य  of  a  route  is   अधिक  effective than at  either  end as connecting  ट्रैफ़िक  more  easily   भरता  the plane  -  passengers prefer a one-stop ( two-leg )  रूट  over a two-stop  (   three-leg  )  रूट   .
Hollow Lacedaemon .
साईट  of the  menelaion   ,  the  shrine  to Helen and Menelaus  constructed   anciently  in  the  Bronze  आयु   नगर  that stood on the hill  of  Therapne  on  the left bank of the Eurotas  नदी   निहार  the  भविष्य  site of Dorian  स्पार्टा  .
आरपार   the  valley the successive ridges  of   माउंट  Taygetus  हैं   in  evidence .
Sparta  (  Doric Greek : ;  अटारी  Greek : )  ,  or Lacedaemon  ,   थी  a  prominent   city-state  in ancient  यूनानियों   ,   situated  on  the  banks  of  the Eurotas River in  laconia  ,  in   south-eastern   पेलोपोनीज़   .
It emerged  as   a  political  एंटिटी  around the 10th century BC ,  जब  the invading Dorians subjugated the  लोकल  , non-Dorian population  .
around  650 BC ,  it   रोज़   to  become the dominant military land-power  in  ancient Greece .
Given  इसके  military pre-eminence ,  स्पार्टा  was recognized as the  overall   नेता  of the combined  यूनानी  forces during  the   greco-persian   युद्धों   .
between  431 and  404   bc  , Sparta was the  प्रिंसिपल   दुश्मन  of  एथेंस   दौरान  the Peloponnesian War , from  जिससे   it  emerged victorious  ,  though at  ग्रेट  cost  .
Sparta 's  शिकस्त  by Thebes in  the  Battle of Leuctra in 371 BC  ended   स्पार्टा   's   prominent  role  in  Greece .
however  ,  it   कायम  its political independence until the  रोमन  conquest of Greece  in  146 BC .
it  then  underwent  a long  काल  of decline  ,   विशेषकर   in   the  Middle Ages , when many  spartans   स्थानांतरित  to live  in  Mystras .
आधुनिक   स्पार्टा  is the capital of  the   यूनानी   क्षेत्रीय  unit of Laconia and  a   बीच  for the processing  of  goods such as  citrus  and olives  .
स्पार्टा  was  अद्वितीय  in  प्राचीन   यूनानियों  for its  सोशल   प्रणाली  and  संविधान  , which  completely  focused  on  military  प्रशिक्षण   और   excellence  .
Its  निवासियों   यहूद  classified as Spartiates  (  Spartan citizens ,  जो   enjoyed   पूरा   अधिकारों  ) ,  mothakes  ( non-Spartan free  मेन   उठाया   as  Spartans ) ,  perioikoi  ( freedmen  )   ,  and Helots ( state-owned serfs  ,  enslaved non-Spartan local population ) .
Spartiates  underwent   the   कठोर   agoge  training  और   शिक्षा  regimen , and  spartan  phalanges were  widely  considered to  be  among  the   बेहतरीन  in  बैटल  .
spartan  women  enjoyed  considerably  अधिक  rights and  समता   to  men  than   elsewhere   in  the  शास्त्रीय   संसार  .
Sparta was the  विषय  of  fascination  in its own day , as well  as  in  the  West following the revival of classical  सीखना  .
This love  or  admiration of Sparta is  ज्ञात  as  laconism  or  laconophilia   .
Fantasy football  is  an interactive competition in which users compete  विरूद्ध   प्रत्येक  other as general  प्रबंधक  of virtual  टीमों  .
The players  कि   an  individual  is   समर्थ  to  मैनेज   हैं   पेशेवर  American  फ़ुटबॉल  players  in   the  National Football League .
The different  क्रियाएँ   लोगों   हैं   समर्थ   to  make are  drafting  , trading , adding or  छोड़ने   खिलाड़ी   ,   और   बदलना  rosters  .
due  to the  विकास  of the Internet , Fantasy football  रै  vastly increased in  लोकप्रियता  , particularly because Fantasy  फ़ुटबॉल  providers such as  ईएसपीएन  , Yahoo , CBS  ,   और   the  NFL itself are able to keep  track   of  statistics  entirely  online  ,  eliminating  the   need  to  जाँच  box scores  और   अखबारों   regularly  to  रखना  track  of  players  .
सबसे   लीग  have  a  single week championship  in   सप्ताह  16  of  the  एनएफएल  season .
संसार   जनसांख्यिकी  estimates from  1800  to 2100  ,   आधारित  on UN 2010 projections (  रेड  , orange ,  ग्रीन  ) and US  जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau  ऐतिहासिक  estimates ( black  )  .
Actual recorded  जनसांख्यिकी   आंकड़े   हैं  in  ब्लू  .
According to the  उच्चतम   अनुमान  , the world  जनसांख्यिकी   may   वृद्धि  to  16  billion  by   2100   ;  according to  the   न्यूनतम  estimate  ,   it   may  decline to  6  billion  .
The  संसार  population is  the   कुल  number of living humans  on  Earth .
As  of  today  ,  it  is  estimated to  क्रमांक   अरब  by  the  United  राज्य  Census Bureau  (  USCB  )  .
the  USCB  estimates   कि   the   संसार  population exceeded  7   अरब  on  कूच  12 ,  2012  .
According to a separate estimate by  the   संयुक्त  Nations Population Fund  ,   it  reached this milestone on October  31  ,  2011  .
The  संसार   जनसांख्यिकी  has experienced continuous  विकास  since  the   समाप्त   of  the  ग्रेट  Famine and  the  Black  मौत   in   1350   ,  when  it  stood at around  370   लाख  .
the  highest  दरों  of growth – global population increases  ऊपर  1.8 %  प्रति  year  –  were  देखी   briefly  during  the  1950s , and for  a  longer period during the 1960s  और  1970s .
The growth rate  peaked   at   2.2   %  in 1963  ,   और  had declined  to   1.1  %  by  2011 .
कुल  annual births were highest  in   the  late 1980s  at  about 138 million  ,   और  are now  अपेक्षित   to  remain essentially constant  at   उनके  2011 level of 134 million  ,   जबकि   मौतों  number  56  million  प्रति   साल   ,  and are expected to increase to  80  million per year  by  2040 .
Current projections show  a  continued increase in  जनसांख्यिकी   in   the   निकट  future ( but a steady decline in the  जनसांख्यिकी  growth rate ) , with  the   वैश्विक   जनसांख्यिकी   अपेक्षित  to reach between 7.5 and  10.5   अरब   by  2050 .
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth ,  stagnation  ,  or   भी   overall  decline in  the   वैश्विक   जनसांख्यिकी  by 2150 .
कुछ   विश्लेषकों   have  questioned the  स्थिरता   of   further   संसार   जनसांख्यिकी  growth , citing the  growing  pressures on the  पर्यावरण  ,  वैश्विक  food  आपूर्तियाँ   ,  and energy resources  .
Skeletal muscles  होमो  sapiens
This  is   a  table of muscles  of  the human anatomy .
There  हैं  approximately  642   skeletal  muscles within  the   ठेठ  human  ,   और  almost every  मांसपेशी   constitutes   एक  part  of   a  pair of identical bilateral  मांसपेशियां  , found on both sides ,  resulting   in   लगभग  320  pairs   of  muscles , as presented in  इस   आलेख  .
nevertheless  , the  सटीक  number is difficult to define because  अलग   स्त्रोत  group  मांसपेशियां   differently   ,  e.g .  regarding   कया   is  defined  as   अलग   भाग   of  a single  मांसपेशी   or  as several muscles  .
Examples  दायरा   इससे   640   to  850 .
the   मांसपेशियां  of  the  human  देह   can   be   categorized   into   a  number  of   समूह  which include muscles relating to  the  head and  गर्दन   ,  muscles of the torso  or   ट्रंक   ,  muscles of  the  upper limbs  ,  and muscles of  the  lower  limbs  .
the  action refers to the  कार्रवाई  of each muscle from the  मानक   anatomical  position .
in  other  स्थितियाँ  ,  अन्य  actions  may   be  performed  .
a  gold bar is  a  quantity  of  refined  धात्विक  gold  of  any shape  कि  is made by  a  bar producer meeting  मानक   शर्तें   of  manufacture ,  labeling  ,  और   रिकार्ड  keeping  .
larger  gold bars  कि  are  उत्पादित  by  pouring  the molten  मेटल   into   molds   हैं  called ingots  .
Smaller bars may be  manufactured  by  minting  or stamping  इससे  appropriately  लिपटे   सुनहरा   चादरें  .
the  standard gold  बार   आयोजित   as   सुनहरा   reserves  by central  बैंको   और  traded among bullion dealers is  the  400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg  or   438.9   औंस  ) Good  डिलीवरी  gold bar .
the  kilobar , which is to  कह  1000 grams in  द्रव्यमान   ,  is the  बार  that  is  more manageable and is  प्रयुक्त   extensively  for trading and investment .
The premium on these bars when traded  is   बहुत  low over  the   स्पॉट   मान  of the gold  बनाना  it ideal for small  हस्तांतरण  between banks  और  traders  .
Most  kilobars  are flat  ,   हालांकि   कुछ  investors  ,  particularly in  यूरोपीय  ,  prefer  the brick shape  .
elisha  Archibald  ``   आर्ची  ''  मैनिंग  III ( born May 19  ,   1949  ) is  a  former American football quarterback in  the  National  फ़ुटबॉल   लीग  ,  playing   लिये  the New  ऑरलियन्स   संतो  from 1971  to  1982 ,  तब  for  the  Houston Oilers  और  Minnesota  वाइकिंग्स  .
He is  the  father of  वर्तमान   डेनवर   broncos   क्वार्टरबैक   peyton   मैनिंग   ,   वर्तमान  New York Giants  starting   क्वार्टरबैक  Eli Manning , and former  ओले   मिस  receiver  कूपर  Manning .
Advocacy  is   a  political  प्रक्रम  by an individual  or   समूह  which aims to influence public-policy  और  resource allocation  निर्णय  within  राजनैतिक   ,  economic , and  सोशल   प्रणालियों  and  संस्थानों  .
वकालत   can  include many  क्रियाएँ   कि  a person or  संगठन  undertakes  सहित   मीडिया   अभियान   ,  public speaking  ,  commissioning  और  publishing research or  पोल  or  the  filing  of   an   amicus  brief  .
Lobbying ( often by  लॉबी   समूह  ) is a form of  वकालत   जहाँ   a  direct  दृष्टिकोण   is   बना  to  विधायक  on an issue which plays  a  significant role  in  modern politics .
Research  is   शुरूआत   to  explore how  वकालत  groups in the U.S. and Canada are  using   सोशल  media to  सुकर   नागरिक  engagement and  सामूहिक   कार्रवाई  .
The flag  of  Mexico ( Spanish  :   bandera   de   méxico  ) is  a  vertical  तिरंगा  of  ग्रीन   ,   श्वेत  , and  रेड  with the national coat  of   बाहें  charged  in  the  बीच  of the white  stripe   .
While the  अर्थ   of   the  colors  रै  changed  over   समय   ,  these three  रंगों  were adopted by Mexico  following   स्वतंत्रता   इससे  Spain  दौरान   the  country 's War of Independence ,  और  subsequent First  मैक्सिकन  Empire  .
The current flag was adopted in  1968   ,   लकिन  the  overall  design  रै  been  प्रयुक्त  since 1821  ,   जब   the  First  नेशनल   ध्वज   थी  created  .
The  वर्तमान  law  of   नेशनल  symbols  ,  Law on  the   नेशनल  Arms , Flag  ,   और   गान  , that governs the  उपयोग  of  the  national flag has  महरूम  in place since 1984  .
रेड  ,  श्वेत  ,  और  green are the  रंगों   of   the  national  मुक्ति   फौज  in Mexico .
The central emblem  is  the Aztec  pictogram  for  tenochtitlan  (  अभी  Mexico  नगर  ) , the center  of  their empire .
It recalls  the  legend that inspired  the  Aztecs to  settle  on what  थी   originally  a lake-island  .
the   रूप   of  the  कोट   of  arms  थी  most  recently  revised in  1968  .
A  रिबन  in  the  national  रंगों  is at the  नीचे  of the  कोट   of  arms  .
Throughout  इतिहास   ,  the  ध्वज   रै   बदला  four times ,  as  the  डिज़ाइन  of  the  coat of arms  और   the   length-width   ratios   of  the flag  have  been  परिवर्धित   .
However ,  the  coat of arms has  था  the same features  throughout   :  an  त्रिभुज  , holding  a   serpent   in  its talon  ,  is  perched   on   शीर्ष   of  a  prickly  pear cactus  ;  the cactus  is  situated  on   a  rock that rises  ऊपर   a   झील  .
The coat  of  arms is  निकला  from  an   एज़टेक   लेजेंड  that their  देवताओं  told them to  निर्माण  a city where they spot an  त्रिभुज  on a nopal  खाने   a  serpent ,  जिससे   is   अभी  Mexico City .
The current national flag ,  the   चौथी   नेशनल  Flag  ,  is also used as the  मैक्सिकन  naval  ensign  by ships registered in Mexico .
A destination marketing  संगठन  or  सम्मेलन   और  visitor bureau  promotes   a  town , city  ,  region , or country in order to increase the  क्रमांक  of visitors  .
It promotes  the  development  और  marketing of  a   गंतव्य  ,  focusing  on convention  बिक्री   ,   पर्यटन   विपणन   ,  and  सेवाएं  .
ऐसे  organizations  प्रचार   आर्थिक  development  of   a  destination by increasing visits from  पर्यटकों  and  कारोबार   travelers  , which  generates  overnight lodging  लिये  a destination  ,  visits to restaurants  ,  and shopping  revenues  .
Convention  और  visitor  bureaus  are  the  most important  पर्यटन  marketing  संगठन  in  उनके   संबंधित  tourist destinations , as they are  सीधे  responsible  लिये   विपणन  the  गंतव्य  brand  through  travel  और   पर्यटन   ``  product awareness  ''  to visitors .
DMOs  उपज  billions  of  dollars in  सीधा   और  indirect  आय   और   कर  for their destinations ' economies  साथ  their marketing and sales expertise .
गंतव्य  marketing organizations are  प्रायः  called  सफर   ,   सम्मेलन  , visitors ,  or  tourism bureaux  ,  welcome centers  ,  information centers  और   अधिक  .
regardless  of the name  ,   ये  organizations offer many  सेवाएं  to the  traveling   पब्लिक   .
The elk  or  wapiti  (  Cervus canadensis  )  is  एक  of  the   largest  species of deer  in  the world  ,  and one  of  the largest  जमीन   स्तनधारियों   in  North  अमेरिका  and  पूर्वी   एशिया   .
It was  long   believed   to   be  a subspecies of the  यूरोपीय  red  हिरण  (  cervus  elaphus )  ,  but evidence from  a   2004  study of the  mitochondrial  DNA indicates  कि  the two are distinct species .
This  एनिमल  should not be confused with  the  larger moose (  alces   alces  )  ,   to  which  the  name  ``  elk '' applies in  यूरेशिया   .
Apart  इससे   the   मूस  ,  the  only  अन्य   सदस्य  of the deer family to  प्रतिद्वंद्वी   the   नीलगाय   in   आकार  is  the   दक्षिण  Asian  sambar  ( Rusa  unicolor  ) .
Elk range in forest  और  forest-edge habitat  ,   feeding  on grasses  ,  plants , leaves , and bark  .
हालांकि   देशी  to  उत्तर   अमेरिका   और  eastern  एशिया  , they have  adapted  well  to   देशों   जहाँ  they  have   महरूम  introduced  ,  including Argentina , Australia , and New Zealand .
उनके   ग्रेट  adaptability may  threaten  endemic species and ecosystems  into  which they  have  been introduced  .
Male elk have large antlers which  हैं  shed each year  .
Males also engage  in  ritualized  समागम  behaviors  दौरान   the  rut , including  posturing   ,  antler  कुश्ती  ( sparring ) ,  और  bugling  ,   a   लाउड  series of  vocalizations   जिससे  establishes  दबदबा   over  other  males   और  attracts females .
नीलगाय  are  susceptible  to  a  number  of  infectious  रोगों   ,  some of which can  be   transmitted  to livestock .
Efforts  to   eliminate   संक्रामक  diseases  इससे  elk populations  ,   largely   through  vaccination , have  था  mixed success  .
Some  संस्कृतियों   आदर   the   नीलगाय  as a  आध्यात्मिक  force .
In parts  of   एशिया  , antlers and their  मखमल   हैं   प्रयुक्त  in traditional  दवाइयाँ   .
Elk are  hunted  as a  खेल  species ; the  मांस  is leaner and  उच्चतर  in  प्रोटीन  than beef  or   मुर्गा  .
the   जार्ज   वॉशिंगटन   विश्वविद्यालयों  ( GW , GWU  ,   or   जार्ज  Washington )  is  a comprehensive  निजी  ,  coeducational   शोध  university located in Washington ,  d.C.   .
it  awards certificates  ,  Bachelor degrees ,  मास्टर्स  degrees  ,  and  phds  across  अनेक   दर्जन  disciplines  .
the   विश्वविद्यालयों  was chartered by  an   अधिनियम  of  कॉंग्रेस  on  फ़रवरी  9  ,  1821  as   the   columbian   कॉलेज   in  the District of  कोलंबिया  .
The  शेर   (   पेंथेरा  leo )  is  one  of   the  four big  बिल्लियों  in the genus  पेंथेरा   और   a  member of  the   परिवार  Felidae  .
साथ   कुछ  males  exceeding   in  weight  ,  it  is   the  second-largest living  बिल्ली  after the tiger .
Wild lions  फिलहाल  exist in sub-Saharan  अफ़्रीकी  and in  एशिया   (  where an endangered  remnant   जनसांख्यिकी  resides in  गिर  Forest  नेशनल  Park in  इण्डिया  )  जबकि  other types  of   शेर   have   disappeared  from North Africa  और   दक्षिणपश्चिम  Asia  in  historic  टाइम्स  .
जबतक  the late Pleistocene ,  परिचय   10,000  years ago , the lion  थी   the  most widespread  विशाल   जमीन  mammal after humans  .
They  यहूद   मिला  in most  of  Africa  ,  across  यूरेशिया  from western Europe  to  India  ,  and  in  the Americas from  the   yukon   to   पेरू   .
The lion is a vulnerable species ,  having  seen a major  जनसांख्यिकी   मनाही  of 30–50  %   over  the past two  दशकों  in its  अफ़्रीकी  range  .
Lion  populations  are  untenable  outside designated reserves  और  national  पार्क  .
हालांकि  the  कारण  of the decline is not  fully  understood ,  आवास   घाटा   और  conflicts  साथ  humans are currently the greatest causes  of  concern .
भीतर  Africa  ,   the  West  अफ़्रीकी   शेर   जनसांख्यिकी  is  विशेषकर  endangered  .
Lions live for  10–14  years in the wild  ,  while in  captivity   वे  can live  longer  than 20 years  .
in  the  जंगली   ,   males   seldom   सजीव  longer  than  10 years  ,  as  चोटों   sustained  from  continual  fighting  साथ   प्रतिद्वंद्वी  males greatly reduce their  आयु   .
They typically inhabit  सवाना  and  घासभूमि   ,  although  वे  may take to bush and forest .
शेर  are  unusually   सोशल   compared  to other cats .
A  अभिमान  of lions consists of related  महिलाओं   और  offspring  और  a small  क्रमांक   of   वयस्क   males  .
Groups  of   मादा  lions  typically   हंट   साथ   ,  preying  ज़्यादातर   on  large ungulates .
शेर   हैं  apex and keystone predators  ,   हालांकि  they scavenge as  अवसर  allows  .
While lions do not  typically  hunt humans ,  कुछ  have  महरूम  known to do so .
sleeping   मुख्यतः  during  the  day , lions are primarily  nocturnal   ,   हालांकि   bordering  on crepuscular  in   प्रकृति  .
Highly distinctive  ,  the male  शेर  is  easily  recognised by  इसके  mane , and its face is one of  the   सबसे   widely  recognised animal  प्रतीकों   in   इंसान   संस्कृति  .
Depictions  have   existed   इससे  the  अपर   paleolithic  period , with carvings  और  paintings  इससे  the Lascaux and  chauvet   गुफाएं  , through  वस्तुतः   सब   प्राचीन  and  मध्यकालीन  cultures where they  एकबार  occurred .
it   रै  been  extensively  depicted in sculptures ,  in  paintings  ,   on   नेशनल  flags , and in  समकालीन   films  and literature .
शेर   have  been  रखा  in menageries since the  समय   of  the Roman Empire , and have  महरूम  a  कुंजी   प्रजाति  sought  लिये   प्रदर्शनी  in  zoos  over the world since  the   लेट  18th century  .
zoos  are cooperating worldwide  in  breeding  कार्यक्रम   लिये   the  endangered Asiatic  subspecies  .
in  the history of video games , the seventh generation of  consoles   is  the previous generation  ,  and includes  consoles   released  since late by Nintendo , Microsoft  ,   और  Sony  .
लिये  home consoles  ,  the seventh generation began on 22  नवम्बर  2005  साथ  the  रिलीज  of  एक्सबॉक्स   360  and continued with the release of  प्लेस्टेशन  3 on  11   नवम्बर   2006  , and  वी  on 19 November  2006  .
Each new  कंसोल  introduced  a   नई  type of breakthrough in technology  .
the   एक्सबॉक्स   360  offered games rendered natively at HD resolutions , the PlayStation 3 offered ,  in   जोड   to   fhd   गेमिंग  , HD  फिल्म  playback  via   a   built-in  3D Blu-ray  डिस्क  player  ,   और  the Wii  केन्द्रित   on  integrating controllers with movement sensors as  खूब   as   joysticks   .
Joining  निन्टेंडो  in  the  motion  मार्केट  ,  सोनी  released the PlayStation Move  in  September 2010  .
the  PlayStation Move  सुविधाएँ   गति  sensing gaming , similar  to  that of the Wii  .
microsoft   भी   joined  Sony  और   निन्टेंडो   ,  with  इसके  Kinect .
Unlike the other two systems  (   प्लेस्टेशन  3  और  Wii )  ,   kinect   करता   नहीं  use any  परिरक्षक  of any sort and  makes  the users the ``  नियंत्रक  . ''
Having sold 8  लाख   इकाई  in  इसके   पहला   60  days on  the  market  ,  Kinect  रै   claimed  the  गिनीज  World  रिकार्ड  of being the `` fastest selling consumer  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स   यंत्र  ''  .
जबकि  the  एक्सबॉक्स  360 offers  तार   परिरक्षक  as  a   स्टैंडअलोन   उत्पाद  , all PlayStation  3   परिरक्षक  can  be  used  in  wired and  बेतार   configurations   .
Starting with handheld  consoles   ,  the seventh  पीढी   began   on   21  November 2004  साथ  the  उत्तर   अमरीकी  introduction of the Nintendo  ds   as   a  ``  तीसरा   pillar  '' ,  alongside   निन्टेंडो  's  मौजूदा  Game Boy Advance  और  GameCube consoles  .
The  निन्टेंडो  DS ( NDS ) features  a   टच  screen  और   built-in  microphone , and supports wireless IEEE 802.11 (  wi-fi   )   मानकों  .
Additionally  ,   the   संशोधित  version  of   the   nds   ,   the  DSi ,  सुविधाएँ   दो   निर्मित   in   कैमरे   ,  the ability to  डाउनलोड  games from the DSi store  ,  and a web browser .
the   प्लेस्टेशन  Portable , or PSP ,  released   बाद  the same year  on   12   दिसम्बर  2004 ,  followed  a different pattern .
It became the  पहला  handheld video game  कंसोल   to  use an  ऑप्टिकल   डिस्क  format , Universal Media  डिस्क   (   umd  )  ,  as its  प्राथमिक   भंडार  media  .
Sony  भी  gave  the   psp  robust multi-media  काबिलियत   ,   कनेक्टिविटी  with the  प्लेस्टेशन   3  and other PSPs ,  और  Internet connectivity .
the  Nintendo  ds  likewise has connectivity to  the   अंतरजाल   through   the  Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection and  निन्टेंडो  DS Browser , as  खूब  as  बेतार  connectivity  to  other DS systems and Wii  consoles  .
despite  high sales numbers  लिये  both  consoles   ,   प्लेस्टेशन   पोर्टेबल  sales have consistently  पिछड़ापन  behind those of the Nintendo  ds  ; nevertheless  ,  the  प्लेस्टेशन   पोर्टेबल   रै  the  भेद   of  being  the   best-selling  non-Nintendo  हैंडहेल्ड  gaming system .
Sgt . Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band  (  often shortened  to   sgt  . Pepper  )  is the eighth studio album by English  चट्टान   बैंड   the   बीटल्स  .
Released in  जून  1967  ,   the   एल्बम  included songs  ऐसे   as   ``   साथ  a Little Help from My Friends `` , `` Lucy in  the  Sky with Diamonds  ``   ,  and  ``   a  Day in  the  Life `` .
Continuing  the  artistic maturation seen on the  बैंड   's   एल्बम  Revolver ( 1966  )   ,  Sgt .  pepper   further  departed from the  conventional  pop rock idiom  of  the time  और   incorporated   balladry  ,  साइकेडेलिक  , music hall , and symphonic influences .
During the  sgt  .  pepper  sessions , the group improved upon the quality  of   उनके   म्यूज़िक  's production  जबकि   exploring  experimental  रिकॉर्डिंग   तकनीकों   .
Producer George  मार्टिन  's  अभिनव  approach included the use of an  ऑर्केस्ट्रा   .
widely  acclaimed  और  imitated ,  the  album  कवर   ,   designed  by English  पॉप  artists  पीटर  Blake and  jann  Haworth  ,  was inspired by  a   स्केच  by Paul McCartney  कि   चित्रित  the  बैंड   पोज़  in front  of  a  कोलाज  of some of their  पसंदीदा   हस्तियाँ  .
Sgt .  pepper   थी   a  worldwide  नाजुक  and commercial  कामयाबी  , spending 27 weeks at the top  of   the   uk  Album  चार्ट  and 15 weeks at number one  on  the US  बिलबोर्ड  200 .
a   seminal  work in  the   उभरते   साइकेडेलिक  rock  स्टाइल  , the album was critically  acclaimed   upon   रिलीज   और  won  चार  Grammy Awards  in   1968   .
साथ  an estimated  32  million copies  बेची  ,  it  is  एक   of  the world  's  best selling albums .
sgt  .  pepper  is considered by many to be the  सबसे   influential   और   प्रसिद्ध   चट्टान  album ever  ,   और   रै  been  नामित   the  greatest album of all  समय   by  both  सब  Time Top  1000   एल्बम  and Rolling  स्टोन  .
The  temporal  lobe is  a  region of  the   दिमागी  cortex  कि   is   स्तिथ   beneath   the  lateral fissure on  दोनो   दिमागी  hemispheres  of   the  mammalian  दिमाग   .
The  temporal   निर्मोक   हैं  involved in  the  retention  of  visual memories , processing sensory  इनपुट   ,   comprehending   भाषा  , storing  नई   यादें   ,  emotion  ,  and deriving  अर्थ  .
The human lungs are  the   अंगों   of  respiration  in  humans .
Humans have  दो   फेफड़े  , a right lung and  a  left  फेफड़ों  .
the   सही  lung consists  of   तीन   निर्मोक  while the left  फेफड़ों   is   थोड़ा  smaller  consisting   of  only two lobes ( the left  फेफड़ों   रै  a ``  हृदय  notch ''  allowing   स्पेस   लिये   the  heart  भीतर  the chest ) .
Together ,  the  lungs  contain   लगभग   of  airways and 300 to 500 million  alveoli   ,  having  a   कुल  surface  क्षेत्रफल  of  परिचय   (   )  in adults — roughly  the  same  क्षेत्रफल  as one side of a tennis court .
Furthermore  ,  if all of the  capillaries  that surround the  alveoli   यहूद   unwound   और  laid end  to  end ,  वे  would extend for  परिचय   .
Each  फेफड़ों  weighs ,  इसलिए   बनाना  the entire organ about .
Human lungs
the  trachea divides into  दो   bronchi  ( one  लिये  each side  )  at the level of  t4   .
इस  junction is  भी  known  as  the carina .
The  conducting   मण्डल  contains  the  trachea  ,   the  bronchi , the bronchioles ,  और  the terminal  bronchioles   the  respiratory  मण्डल  contains the  respiratory   bronchioles   ,  the alveolar ducts , and the alveoli .
The conducting zone  और  the respiratory stuffers ( but not  the  alveoli  )  are  बना  up of  एयरवेज़  .
the   conducting   मण्डल  has  no   गैस  exchange with  the   रक्त   ,   और   is   reinforced  with cartilage  in   अनुक्रम   to  hold open the airways  .
The conducting  मण्डल  warms  the   एयर   to  and humidifies the air .
It also cleanses  the  air by  निकालना  particles via cilia  स्तिथ   on  the  दीवारें   of  all the passageways .
The  फेफड़े   हैं  surrounded  by  the rib  पिंजरा   .
the   respiratory  zone is the  साईट  of gas  एक्सचेंज  with  रक्त   .
the   सहानुभूतिपूर्ण  nervous  प्रणाली   via   noradrenaline   एक्टिंग  on the beta receptors  कल्याणकारी  bronchodilation  .
The parasympathetic  बेचैन  system via acetylcholine  ,  which acts on the M-3 muscarinic  receptors  , maintains the resting tone  of   the   bronchiolar   चिकना   मांसपेशी   .
This action is related  ,  although  माना   पृथक   इससे   bronchoconstriction  .
अनेक   अन्य  non-autonomic  बेचैन   और  biochemical stimuli  ,  including carbon dioxide  और  oxygen ,  हैं  also involved in  the   विनियमन   प्रक्रम  .
The pleural cavity is the potential space  between   the  parietal  pleura  , lining  the  inner  वॉल   of   the  thoracic cage , and the  visceral  pleura  अस्तर   the  lungs  .
the   फेफड़ों  parenchyma is strictly used  to   refer  solely  to  alveolar tissue with respiratory bronchioles  ,  alveolar ducts and terminal  bronchioles   .
However  ,  it often  शामिल   कोई  form  of   फेफड़ों  tissue  ,   भी   सहित  bronchioles ,  bronchi   ,   रक्त  vessels  और   फेफड़ों   interstitium  .
the  margarita is a  मैक्सिकन  cocktail consisting  of   टकीला  mixed with  cointreau  or similar orange -flavoured  liqueur  and lime or lemon juice , often  परोसा  with salt  on  the glass  रिम  .
It is the most common tequila-based cocktail  in  the United  राज्य  .
the  drink is served shaken with ice ( on  the  rocks  )   ,  blended with  बर्फ   (  frozen margarita ) , or without  बर्फ  (  सीधा   up   )  .
Two bottles  of  red  बरगंडी  wine from  gevrey-chambertin  , Côtes de Nuits
Burgundy is  a  dark red  रंग   संबद्ध  with the  बरगंडी  wine of the  वही   नाम  , which in turn  is  named after  the   बरगंडी  region of France .
The  रंग  burgundy  is  similar to other  शेड्स   of   अंधेरा  red such as  मैरून   .
जब  referring  to   the   रंग  , `` burgundy '' is  प्रायः   नहीं  capitalized .
The  पहला   अंकित  use of `` burgundy ''  as  a color  नाम   in   अंग्रेज़ी  was  in   1881   .
संगीन  of an  अनजान  British  सिपाही  , killed in  1943  during the Battle of  leros   .
Because his identity is unknown , he  is   लापता  in action  .
Grave of an unknown  अमरीकी   सिपाही   in   oise-aisne   कब्रिस्तान   .
मारे  in 1917
Grave of  an   अनजान   छत्रसेना  ,  मारे   in  the Battle of Arnhem , 1944  .
Photographed  in   अप्रैल   1945
क़ब्रों   of  11  अनजान  British soldiers killed  दौरान   संसार  War  ii  , in Rhodes CWGC  युद्ध  cemetery
वॉल   crypts  containing  remains  of  अनजान  Italian soldiers  मारे  during  संसार   युद्ध   ii   ,  in  a   rhodes  cemetery
Some of  the   72,000  names inscribed  on   the   thiepval   मेमोरियल  to  the   लापता   of  the Somme
Graves of unknown  फ्रेंच  soldiers  मारे  during World War One  .
प्रत्येक   कंक्रीट   क्रॉस  has a  मेटल  plaque bearing the word `` Inconnu '' i.e .  ``  Unknown  ''
ossuary   at   the  Gallipoli battlefield  ,   containing  the remains  of  3000 unidentified  फ्रेंच   सैनिको  who  died  in  1915
Graves of  अनजान  Eritrean  ascaris  killed in 1941  दौरान   the  Battle of  keren
लापता  in  कार्रवाई  ( MIA  )  is a casualty  श्रेणी   आबंटित  under  the   औकात  of  लापता  to armed  सेवाएं  personnel  जो  are reported  लापता   दौरान   क्रियाशील  service  .
They may  have   महरूम  killed ,  wounded  ,  become  a prisoner of war  ,  or deserted .
if   मृतक  , neither  उनके  remains  nor  grave can  be  positively identified .
बनने  MIA  रै  been an  occupational  risk for service  कर्मियों  for as  long   as  there has been  warfare   .
कक्ष  of Commerce  भवन  in Center .
This building  is  the original jail , built  साथ   साथ   the   ऐतिहासिक  Courthouse .
Both sit  on   the  Town  वर्गाकार   .
The Rio Theater in  बीच
पहला   बैपटिस्ट  Church  at   117   कोरा  Street  in  Center is located next  to   the   शहर  section .
First  ईसाई  Church at  124   कोरा  Street in Center  is  one of  the  oldest congregations in  the  community .
Center is a city  in  Shelby County ,  टेक्सास   ,  United  राज्य   .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 5,193  at  the 2010 census .
It is  the  county  सीट  of Shelby County  .
It is  नामित  for  इसके   स्थान   निकट  the center  of   शेल्बी   काउंटी  , not for its location in Texas as it is  स्तिथ  near  the  Louisiana border .
Intense red-eye  प्रभाव   in  blue eyes with dilated pupil
The red-eye effect  in  photography is the  आम  appearance of  रेड  pupils  in  color photographs of  आँखें   .
It  occurs  when  using   a  photographic  फ्लैश  very close  to  the  कैमरा   लेंस  (  as   साथ   सबसे   कॉम्पैक्ट   कैमरे  )  ,  in ambient low light  .
The effect appears  in  the eyes of humans and  पशु   कि   have   tapetum   lucidum   .
Theatrical followspot operators  ,  positioned nearly coincidentally with  a  very  उज्जवल  light and  somewhat   दूर   इससे  the actors ,  occasionally  witness  red-eye  in actors on stage .
The  प्रभाव   is   नहीं   दृश्य  to the rest  of   the  audience  क्युकी   it  is reliant  on   the  very small angle  between  the followspot  ऑपरेटर  and the light .
the  University  of  California , Santa Barbara  (  commonly  referred   to  as UC Santa  बारबरा  or  ucsb  ) is a  पब्लिक  research university and  एक   of  the ten general  campuses   of   the   विश्वविद्यालयों  of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  system  .
The  प्रमुख  campus  is   स्तिथ  on a  साईट   in  Goleta ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , United States  ,   इससे   सांता   बारबरा  and  उत्तरपश्चिम   of  Los Angeles  .
ट्रेसिंग  its roots back to  1891   as  an independent  शिक्षक  ' college , UCSB joined the University  of  California system in 1944  और  is  the  third-oldest  general-education   कैम्पस  in the system .
ucsb  is one  of  America 's  पब्लिक   आइवी  universities ,  जिससे  recognizes  शीर्ष   पब्लिक  research universities  in   the  United States  .
the  university is a  व्यापक  doctoral university and is  व्यवस्थित   into   पाँच  colleges and  स्कूलों  offering  87  undergraduate  डिग्री  and  55   ग्रैजुएट  degrees  .
the   कैम्पस   is  the  6th-largest  in  the   uc   प्रणाली  by enrollment with 18,977 undergraduate  और  2,950 graduate  विद्यार्थी  .
in  2012 , UCSB was  क्रमित   41st  among `` National Universities  ''  and 10th among  पब्लिक   विश्वविद्यालयों  by U.S. News & World Report .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों   थी   भी   क्रमित  35th worldwide  by   the  Times Higher  शिक्षा  World University Rankings and 34th  विश्वव्यापी  (  6th  worldwide  लिये  engineering  )  by  the   अकादमिक  Ranking of World  विश्वविद्यालयों   in  2012. <  संदर्भ  name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 ''  >
UC Santa Barbara  is   a  `` very high activity  ''  research university and spent $  191.2  million  on   शोध  expenditures in  the   2007   फिस्कल   साल   ,  97th-largest in  the   संयुक्त  States  .
UCSB  घरों  twelve national  शोध  centers , including the renowned  kavli   संस्थान   लिये   सैद्धांतिक   भौतिकी  .
UCSB faculty  शामिल  five  नोबेल   पुरस्कार   laureates  ,  एक   फ़ील्ड  Medalist  ,   29   सदस्यों   of   the  National Academy of Sciences  ,  27 members of the National Academy  of  Engineering ,  और   31  members of  the   अमरीकी   अकादमी  of Arts  और  Sciences .
UCSB was  the  No . 3  मेजबान  on the  arpanet  and  थी  elected to the  संघ  of American  विश्वविद्यालयों   in  1995 .
The UC  सांता   बारबरा  Gauchos compete  in   the   ncaa   प्रभाग   i   बिग  West Conference  .
the  Gauchos  have  won NCAA  नेशनल  championships in men  's  soccer and men 's  जल  polo .
संत   जोसेफ   साथ  the Infant Jesus  by  Guido  reni
संत  Joseph  's  Day , March  19  , the Feast of  st.   जोसेफ  is in Western  christianity  the  प्रिंसिपल   feast   दिन   of   संत  Joseph  ,   जीवनसाथी   of   the  Blessed  वर्जिन   मरियम  .
he  is  भी  the step-father of  यीशु  of Nazareth /Jesus Christ  .
it  has the rank  of  a  solemnity   in  the Roman Catholic Church ;  catholics   जो   follow   the  Missal of 1962  celebrate   it  as a  पहला   क्लास  feast .
Previous to 1962 it  थी  celebrated as  a  feast  of  the  रैंक  of  दोगुना  of  the  first class  .
it   is  a feast or commemoration in the provinces  of   the   anglican   नियाज़   ,  and  a  feast or  पर्व   in   the   लूथरन  Church  .
Saint Joseph 's  दिन   is  the  patronal   feast  day for  कैंडल   as  well as  लिये  Canada , persons named Joseph , Josephine  ,  etc.  ,   लिये   धार्मिक   संस्थान   ,  schools and  parishes  bearing his name ,  और  for carpenters .
it  is also Father  's   दिन   in   कुछ   कैथोलिक  countries ,  मुख्यतः   स्पेन  , Portugal , and  इटली  .
March 19  थी   समर्पित  to Saint Joseph in several Western calendars  by  the tenth century ,  और   इस   कस्टम   थी   स्थापित  in  रोम   by  1479 .
Pope  st.  Pius V  विस्तारित  its use to the  संपूर्ण   रोमन  Rite  by  his Apostolic  संविधान  Quo  primum  ( July  14  , 1570 ) .
Since  1969  ,  एपिस्कोपल  Conferences  may  ,  if   वे   काश   ,  transfer  it   to  a  तिथि   बाहर  Lent .
Between 1870 and 1955 ,  a  feast  थी  celebrated in honor of  st.  Joseph  as  Spouse  of   the  Blessed Virgin  मरियम  and Patron of  the   सार्वभौमिक  Church  ,   the  latter title having been  दिए  to him by Pope  पायस   ix  .
Originally celebrated on the  तीसरा   संडे  after  ईस्टर  with  an  octave , after Divino Afflatu  of  St. Pius X (  देखिए   सुधार   of   the   रोमन   breviary  by  पोप  Pius  x   )  ,  it  was moved to the preceding  बुधवार  .
The feast  थी  also  retitled  The Solemnity of Saint Joseph .
This celebration and  इसके   accompanying   अष्टक   थी  abolished  दौरान  the  आधुनिकीकरण  and simplification of rubrics  अंतर्गत  Pope  पायस   बारहवीं  in  1955  .
it   is   स्टिल  maintained by Catholics who follow the missal of  1962   or  earlier  missals   .
as  the traditional holiday  of  the  रसूलों  Ss . Philip and James ,  may   1  , had  धुंधली  from  the  memory of most Catholics by the  mid-twentieth  century  ,   कि   of  Joseph the  कार्यकर्ता  was  निर्मित  in  अनुक्रम   to   coincide  with  the   जश्न   of   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   श्रमिक  Day ( May Day )  in   अनेक  countries .
The  feast  of Ss  .   फिलिप  and  जेम्स   ,   जिससे  had been celebrated on that  तिथि  since the sixth century , was moved from its  परंपरागत   प्लेस  .
in  the  नई  calendar published in 1969 , the feast ,  जिससे   at   एक   समय  occupied the highest  संभावित  rank in the Church  पंचांग  , was  घटाया  to  an  optional  मेमोरियल   ,   the  lowest rank for a saint  's  day  .
The  पूर्वी  Orthodox  गिरिजाघर  celebrates Saint Joseph on the  संडे   बाद   क्रिसमस   .
Mariah Carey ( born  कूच  27 , 1970 )  is  an  अमरीकी  singer ,  songwriter  , record  निर्माता  , actress  ,  and  लोकसेवक  .
अंतर्गत  the guidance of  कोलंबिया  Records  कार्यपालिका  Tommy Mottola , Carey released  उसके  self-titled  डेब्यू   स्टुडियो   एल्बम  Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive  क्रमांक   एक  singles  on  the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart  .
following   उसके  marriage  to  Mottola in 1993  और  success  साथ   hit  records  भाव  ( 1991 ) , Music  बक्सा  (  1993  )  ,  and Merry Christmas ( 1994 )  ,  Carey was  स्थापित   as   कोलंबिया  's  highest-selling   अधिनियम  .
Daydream ( 1995  )  made music  इतिहास  when  इसके   दूसरी   सिंगल  ``  एक  Sweet  दिन   ``   ,  a  duet   साथ  Boyz II  मेन   ,   खर्च   a   रिकार्ड  sixteen weeks on top  of   the   बिलबोर्ड  Hot  100  , and remains  the  longest-running number-one  सोंग   in   u.S.   चार्ट   इतिहास  .
During the  रिकॉर्डिंग  of the  एल्बम   ,  Carey  began  to  deviate   इससे  her R  &  B  और  pop beginnings  और  slowly  traversed   into  hip hop  .
इस  musical change became evident  साथ  the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ) ,  at  which time Carey had  अलग   इससे  Mottola  .
Carey left  कोलंबिया   in  2000  ,   और  signed a  record-breaking   $  100 million  रिकॉर्डिंग  contract  साथ   वर्जिन   रिकॉर्ड  .
पहले   the  release of  उसके   पहला   विशेषता  film  glitter  ( 2001 ) , she suffered a physical and  emotional  breakdown  और  was  hospitalized   लिये  severe exhaustion .
following  the  फिल्मी  's poor  रिसेप्शन   ,  she was bought  आउट  of her recording  अनुबंध   लिये  $ 50 million  ,  which  led  to  a  decline in her career  .
She signed  a  multi-million  डालर   अनुबंध   सौदे  with Island Records in 2002  ,  and after an unsuccessful period , returned  to   the  top  of  music  चार्ट  with The  emancipation  of  मिमी  (  2005  )  .
Its second  सिंगल   ``   we  Belong  साथ  ``  became  her most successful single of the 2000s , and  थी  later named `` Song  of  the Decade ''  by   बिलबोर्ड   .
Carey once again ventured  into  film with a  well-received  starring  भूमिका  in  (  2009  )  ;  वो   थी   awarded   the  ``  भेदन  Performance Award '' at  the   ताड़   स्रोतों  International Film Festival ,  और  Black Reel and NAACP  चित्र  Award  nominations  .
In  a  career spanning over  दो  decades  ,   कैरी  has  बेची  more  than   200  million records worldwide  ,  making her  एक   of  the  best-selling  music artists  of   सब   समय  .
in  1998  ,   वो  was honored  as  the  संसार   's  best-selling  रिकॉर्डिंग  artist of the  1990s   at   the  World  म्यूज़िक   पुरस्कार   .
Carey was also named  the   best-selling   मादा   कलाकार   of   the  millennium in 2000  .
According  to  the  रिकॉर्डिंग   उद्योग  Association of America  ,  she is  the  third best-selling  मादा   कलाकार  in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  , with  63.5  million  certified   एल्बम   .
साथ   the  release of  ``  Touch My  देह  `` ( 2008 )  ,   कैरी  gained her  eighteenth   क्रमांक  one single in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  , more  than  any other  सोलो   कलाकार   .
in  2012 , Carey  थी  ranked  दूसरी   on   vh1   's  list of the  ``   100  Greatest Women in Music ''  .
aside   इससे  her  वाणिज्यिक   accomplishments   ,   कैरी  has won five Grammy  पुरस्कार   ,  17  संसार  Music Awards  ,   11   अमरीकी  Music Awards ,  और  31 Billboard  म्यूज़िक  Awards .
referred  to as the  ``   songbird  supreme '' by the Guinness  संसार  Records , she  is   famed  for her five-octave vocal range  ,   शक्ति  , melismatic style  और   हस्ताक्षर  use of the whistle  पंजीकरण  .
a  bumblebee  is   कोई   सदस्य   of  the bee genus Bombus  ,  in  the   परिवार  Apidae  .
There  हैं   over  250  ज्ञात  species  ,  existing primarily in the  उत्तरी   गोलार्ध   हालांकि   वे  also  occur   in  South America .
They  have  been  introduced  to  नई   जीलैंड   और  the Australian state  of  Tasmania  .
Bumblebees are  सोशल  insects that  हैं  characterised  by   ब्लैक  and  पीला  body hairs , often in bands  .
However ,  कुछ   प्रजाति   have  orange  or  red  on  their bodies , or may be entirely  ब्लैक  .
Another obvious  (   लकिन  not  अद्वितीय   )   characteristic  is the soft nature  of   the   बाल   (   long  , branched setae )  ,  called  pile   ,  that covers  उनके  entire body ,  बनाना  them appear  और  feel  फजी   .
They are best distinguished from similarly  विशाल  , fuzzy bees by the form  of   the   मादा  hind  लेग   ,   जिससे  is modified  to  form a corbicula  :   a  shiny  concave   सतह   कि   is   bare   ,  but surrounded  by   a   फ्रिंज  of hairs used  to  transport pollen  (  in similar  मधुमक्खियों  , the hind leg is completely hairy , and  पराग  grains are wedged into  the  hairs for transport ) .
जैसे   उनके  relatives  the   मधु   मधुमक्खियों   ,  bumblebees  फीड  on nectar  और  gather pollen to feed their young .
A  man  openly carrying a handgun  in  a Burger King in  त्रिभुज   ,   कोलोराडो  .
In the United States  ,  open carry is  आशुलिपि  terminology  लिये  ``  खुलकर  carrying  a   firearm  in public '' , as  विशिष्ट  from  concealed  carry  ,  where  firearms  can not  be   देखी  by the casual observer .
The  अभ्यास   of   खोलें   carry  , where  गन   स्वामी  openly carry firearms while they go about their daily business , has seen  an   बढ़ाएँ  in  the  U.S.  in   हाल  years  .
इस   रै  been  चिह्नित  by  a   क्रमांक  of organized  कार्यक्रम  intended  to  increase  the  visibility  of   खोलें   carry  and public awareness about the practice .
Proponents of open  carry  point to history and  आंकडे  , noting that criminals usually conceal  उनके  weapons .
Encouraged  by  groups  जैसे  OpenCarry.org  ,  GeorgiaCarry.org and some participants  of   the  Free  राज्य  Project  ,   खोलें   carry   रै   देखी  a revival  in   हाल   सालो  , but  it   is   नहीं  yet clear  if  this represents just a short-term trend  .
The gun rights community has  महरूम  mixed  in  its  जवाब   .
एलन  Gottlieb of the Second  amendment  Foundation and the NRA have been cautious  in   expressing  support  ,   जबकि  special-interest groups such as  the  aforementioned OpenCarry.org and GeorgiaCarry.org  ,  and  निश्चित  national  समूह  such as the Gun Owners of  अमेरिका  (  गोवा  )  have  been more outspoken  in  favor of the  अभ्यास  .
Open carry is strongly opposed by gun control  समूह   ऐसे   as   the  Brady Campaign and the Coalition  to  Stop Gun  हिंसा  .
the  Cattenom Nuclear Power Plant in France .
France produces around  तीन  quarters  of  its electricity by  नाभिकीय  power .
The  grafenrheinfeld   नाभिकीय  Power Plant in Germany .
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's  गठबन्धन  announced on May  30  ,  2011   ,  that  germany’s  17 nuclear  शक्ति  stations will be  shut   bas   by   2022  , in  a  policy reversal  following  Japan 's  फुकुशिमा   daiichi  nuclear disaster  .
Currently  ,  68 reactors  हैं  under  निर्माण  in 15  देशों  .
Nuclear  शक्ति  stations  operate  in thirty countries .
In  2010  , before the Fukushima  daiichi  nuclear  विपत्ति   ,  it was  reported  that an  औसत   of  about 10 nuclear  रिएक्टरों  were  अपेक्षित   to   become   operational   प्रति   साल  , although according  to   the   संसार  Nuclear Association , of the 17  civilian  reactors planned to become  operational  between 2007  और  2009  ,  only five actually  आए  on  स्ट्रीम  .
As  of  June 2011  ,   जर्मनी   और  Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power  .
As of  जून   2011  ,  देशों  such as  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   ,   ऑस्ट्रिया  ,  डेनमार्क  , Greece , Ireland ,  इटली   ,   लातवियाई   ,  Liechtenstein , Luxembourg  ,   मलेशिया  , Malta  ,   नई  Zealand , Norway  और   पुर्तगाल  remain  opposed   to   नाभिकीय  power .
Color  गति   चित्र   फिल्मी  refers both to  unexposed  color photographic  फिल्मी  in a  स्वरूप  suitable  लिये  use  in   a  motion  चित्र  camera  ,   और  to finished motion picture film  ,   तैयार   लिये  use in  a   प्रोजेक्टर   ,   जिससे   bears   बिंब  in  रंग  .
The  पहला  color  cinematography  was  by  means of  योगात्मक   रंग  systems such  as  the  एक   patented  in England  by   एडवर्ड   रेमंड  Turner in  1899   और  tested  in   1902   .
A simplified additive  प्रणाली  was developed by  जार्ज   अल्बर्ट   स्मिथ  and successfully commercialized  in   1909  as  kinemacolor  .
ये  early systems  प्रयुक्त  black-and-white  फिल्मी  to photograph and project  दो  or  अधिक  component  बिंब   through   अलग   रंग   फ़िल्टर   .
Still from footage recorded  by  Edward  टर्नर  in 1902
With  the  present-day technology ,  वहीँ   हैं  two  पृथक  processes :  eastman  Color Negative 2 chemistry ( camera negative stocks  ,   duplicating   interpositive  and internegative  स्टॉक्स  ) and Eastman  रंग   धनात्मक  2 chemistry (  धनात्मक  prints for direct projection  )  , usually  abbreviated   as  ECN-2 and  ecp-2   .
Fuji 's  उत्पाद  are compatible with  ecn-2  and  ecp-2   .
ashanti  Shequoiya  डगलस   (   born   अक्तूबर  13 ,  1980   )  is an American  singer-songwriter  ,  रिकार्ड   निर्माता   ,  and actress .
ashanti  is most famous for  उसके  eponymous debut album , which featured the hit  सोंग  `` Foolish `` , and sold  over  503,000  नक़ल   in  its first  सप्ताह  of  रिलीज   throughout   the   u.S.   in  April 2002 .
the  album set a Soundscan record as  the  biggest  खोलने  week sales for a  नई  female  कलाकार   ,  outselling debuts by Alicia  कुंजियाँ  and  लॉरिन   हिल  .
In  the   वही  week  ,  she became  the  first  मादा  performer to  simultaneously  hold  the   शीर्ष  two  स्थान  on the  बिलबोर्ड  Hot  100  singles  चार्ट   साथ  ``  foolish  '' , and `` What 's  luv  ?  ``
(  with Fat Joe ) .
ashanti  broke records  again  by having  तीन   शीर्ष   टेन  songs , `` Foolish , '' `` What 's Luv ? '' and `` Always  on   समय   ``  ,  on   the  Billboard Hot 100 charts in the same  सप्ताह   ,  being the  पहला  woman  to   accomplish   इस   feat  and being second  तभी  to the Beatles  .
In  2003  , the self-titled debut album  जीती   ashanti   उसके   पहला   ग्रैमी  Award for Best Contemporary  r  & B  एल्बम  .
as  of  अप्रैल   1st   2013  ,  ashanti   रै  sold over 27.7  लाख  records worldwide  .
ashanti   ended  the decade  (  2000–09 )  as  the third top  नई  R & B  कलाकार  behind Alicia Keys and Beyoncé  .
वो  also ended the  दशक  at  क्रमांक   38   on  the Top Artist of the  दशक   सूची  .
She is  फिलहाल  on the  सूची  of  the   बीस  Best Selling  म्यूज़िक   singles  Since  1990  for her single Foolish  लिये  selling 7.2 million copies to-date .
Ashanti  रै   an   अनुमानित  net  लायक   of  $  40   लाख   डॉलर  [ USD ] .
Ashanti wrote  और  sang  पृष्ठभूमि  on Jennifer  लोपेज़  's  ``  Ai n't  it   मजेदार  (  हत्या  Remix ) `` ,  जिससे  reached number  एक   on  Billboard Hot  100   ,  which was also  in  the  शीर्ष   10  chart at the same time as ``  foolish   ''   ,   ``  Always on  समय   ''   (  with  ja  Rule  )  , and ``  कया   's  Luv '' ( with  मोटे   जो   )  .
बाद  that  साल  ,  वो   थी  acclaimed as the  ``  Princess Of Hip-Hop & R & B '' by  उसके  label and capped  बंद  her  कामयाब   डेब्यू  by  जीतना  eight Billboard awards  और   दो   अमरीकी  Music  पुरस्कार  .
Within seven  सालो  of Ashanti 's career , she has scored 16 top  40   हिट्स  on the  hot   100   .
ashanti  has endorsed  numerous   उत्पाद  including Gap  ,  Herbal Essences and Mudd Jeans  .
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston  ,   जेनेट   जैक्सन   ,  Prince  ,  Madonna , Tupac Shakur  ,  Mary J. Blige ,  एला   fitzgerald  , Smokey Robinson , Donna Summer  ,   और  Blue Magic as  उसके   musical  influences .
Praised as a gifted songwriter  by  her  peers   और   आलोचकों   alike   ,  Ashanti  रै  written/co-written  the   बल्क  of all her music  .
वो  is currently  working  on her  अपना   प्रकाशन   कम्पनी  entitled Written Entertainment  .
She released her fourth  स्टुडियो  album entitled The Declaration on  जून   3   ,   2008   और   is  currently in the studio  working  on  उसके  fifth .
She also  performed   the   दान  tune `` Just Stand  up  `` alongside 15 other  मादा   गायकों   लिये   the   ``  Stand  up  to Cancer '' live television special which  helped  raise  $  100  लाख  dollars for  कर्कट   शोध   .
the  United  राज्य  Army  एयर  Forces ( USAAF or  aaf  )  थी  the military aviation arm  of  the  संयुक्त  States  of  America during and immediately after World  युद्ध   ii   ,   और   the  direct  पूर्ववर्ती  of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   एयर   फ़ोर्स  .
the  AAF was a  घटक  of the United  राज्य  Army  ,   जिससे   in  1942  थी   विभाजित  functionally  by  executive order into three  autonomous  forces  :  the  फौज   मैदान  Forces , the Services of Supply  (   जिससे  in 1943  became  the Army  सेवा  Forces  )  , and the  aaf  .
Each of  ये  forces  था   a  commanding general  जो   reported  directly  to  the  मुख्य  of Staff of the United States Army .
the  AAF administered all parts of  सैन्य  aviation  formerly  distributed among  the  Army Air Corps , General Headquarters  एयर  Force ,  और  ground  शक्तियां  corps area commanders ,  और   यूँ  became the  पहला   एयर  organization  of  the U.S.  फौज  to control  इसके   अपना  installations and  support   कर्मियों   .
In  अभ्यास  , the AAF was virtually  autonomous  inside  the  Army .
the   शिखर  size of  the  AAF was over  2.4  million  मेन  and  महिलाओं  in  सेवा  and nearly 80,000  वायुयान  in 1944 , and 783  घरेलू   bases  in December  1943   .
By  ve   दिन  it  था  1.25  लाख  men stationed overseas and operated from more than 1,600 airfields  विश्वव्यापी   .
The  एयर   corps  became  the  Army  एयर  Forces in  जून   1941  to provide the  एयर  arm a  वृहद   स्वायत्तता   in  which to expand  अधिक   efficiently   ,   और  to provide a  ढांचा   लिये  the additional command echelons required by a vastly  increased   फ़ोर्स  .
हालांकि  other nations already  था  separate air  शक्तियां  independent of the army or  नेवी   (  such as  the  British  royal  Air Force  और  the  जर्मनी  Luftwaffe ) ,  the   aaf  remained  a   भाग   of   the   संयुक्त  States  फौज  until the  संयुक्त  States  एयर   फ़ोर्स  came into being  in  September 1947  .
however  ,  in  its  विस्तार   और  conduct of  the  war , the  aaf   became   अधिक  than  बस   an   भुजा  of  the  greater organization .
By the  समाप्त  of  संसार  War II  the   aaf   था   become  virtually an  स्वतंत्र  service .
By regulation and executive  अनुक्रम   ,  the  aaf  was  a  subordinate agency  of  the War Department  tasked   तभी  with  आयोजन  , training  ,  and equipping  कॉम्बैट  units  ,  limited  in  responsibility to  the   महाद्वीपीय  United  राज्य   ,  as  यहूद   the   फौज  Ground Forces  और   the  Army Service Forces  .
in  reality  ,  Headquarters  aaf   नियंत्रित   the  conduct of all  पहलुओं  of  the  air  युद्ध  in  प्रत्येक   भाग  of the  संसार   ,  determining  एयर  policy and issuing orders  बगैर  transmitting  उन्हें   through   the  Chief  of  Staff .
इस  `` contrast between  सिद्धान्त  and  फैक्ट  is ... fundamental to an  समझना  of the AAF . ''
The Freedom  of   सूचना  Act (  foia  )  is   a  federal freedom of information  विधि  that allows  लिये  the full  or   आंशिक  disclosure of previously unreleased information  और  documents  नियंत्रित   by  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  government  .
the   अधिनियम  defines agency  रिकॉर्ड  subject to  प्रकटीकरण   ,  outlines  अनिवार्य  disclosure  प्रक्रियाओं   और  grants  नौ  exemptions to the statute .
it   थी  originally signed into law by President Lyndon  B.   जॉनसन  , despite his misgivings , on  जुलाई   4   ,   1966  as  और   गई  into  प्रभाव  the following year .
the  Federal Government  's  Freedom  of  Information Act  चाहिए  not  be   उलझन  with  the  different and varying Freedom of Information Acts passed by the  व्यक्तिगत  states .
Many of  those   राज्य  acts  may   be   समान   लकिन  not  एकसमान  to  the  federal  अधिनियम  .
The  यूरोपीय  Union (  eu   )   is   an   आर्थिक   और  political union  of  27 member  राज्य  that are  स्तिथ   primarily   in  Europe .
the   eu   operates   through   a  system of  supranational   स्वतंत्र  institutions  और  intergovernmental  negotiated  decisions  by  the  सदस्य  states .
संस्थानों  of  the   eu  include  the  European Commission ,  the  Council of the  यूरोपीय  Union ,  the   यूरोपीय   परिषद   ,   the  Court  of  Justice of the  यूरोपीय  Union , the  यूरोपीय   सेंट्रल  Bank , the Court  of  Auditors , and  the   यूरोपीय   पार्लियामेंट   .
the   यूरोपीय   पार्लियामेंट  is  निर्वाचित  every five years  by  EU  नागरिकों  .
The  eu   's  de  facto  capital is  ब्रसेल्स   .
the  EU  traces  its origins from the European Coal and  स्टील   जातियाँ   (  ECSC  )  and  the   यूरोपीय  Economic Community ( EEC  )  , formed by the Inner Six  देशों   in  1951 and  1958  respectively .
In the intervening years the community and its  successors   have   grown  in  आकार   by  the accession  of   नई   सदस्य   राज्य  and in  शक्ति   by   the  addition of policy areas to its remit .
the  Maastricht Treaty established  the  European  संघ  under its current name in  1993  .
the   नवीनतम  major  amendment   to  the  संवैधानिक  basis  of   the   eu  , the Treaty of  लिस्बन  , came into  फ़ोर्स   in  2009 .
the   eu  has developed a  सिंगल   मार्केट  through a  standardised  system  of  laws that apply  in   सब  member states  .
Within the Schengen Area ( which includes  22  EU  और  4 non-EU  राज्य  ) passport  नियंत्रण  have been  abolished  .
eu   नीतियों  aim  to  ensure the  फ़्री  movement of people , goods ,  सेवाएं  , and capital  ,   enact  legislation  in   इंसाफ  and  घर   अफेयर्स  ,  और  maintain  आम  policies on trade ,  कृषि  , fisheries and  क्षेत्रीय   विकास  .
a  monetary union  ,   the   eurozone   ,  was established in 1999 and is composed of  17   सदस्य  states .
through   the  Common Foreign and Security  नीति  the  eu  has developed  a  role in external relations and defence  .
Permanent diplomatic  मिशन   have  been  स्थापित   around  the world .
The  eu   is   represented   at  the United Nations  ,   the   wto  , the G8 and  the   g-20   .
With  a   संयुक्त   जनसांख्यिकी   of   over  500 million inhabitants , or 7.3  %   of   the  world population  ,  the  eu   ,  in  2012   ,   उत्पन्न   a  nominal  सकल   घरेलू  product ( GDP  )   of  16.584 trillion US dollars  ,  representing  लगभग  20  %  of  the  global GDP when  measured  in terms of purchasing  शक्ति  parity , and represents the  largest   नाममात्र  GDP  और  GDP PPP  in   the  world .
the  EU was the recipient of the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize  .
The  वेल्स   नेशनल  rugby league  टोली   represent   वेल्स  in  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   रग्बी  league football  मिलान   .
Currently the team  is  seventh in  the  RLIF World Rankings .
The team were run  अंतर्गत   the   auspices   of  the  रग्बी  Football League  ,  but an  स्वतंत्र   देह   ,   वेल्स  Rugby League  ,  now  रनों  the  टोली  from  कार्डिफ   .
a   कुल  of  तीन   वेल्श   खिलाड़ी  have  महरूम   डाला   into  the Rugby  लीग  Hall  of   कीर्ति  .
Similar to many other  वेल्श   नेशनल  sporting teams ,  वेल्स   स्ट्रिप  has been primarily red for  अनेक  years  ,   सहित   अभी   .
however  in their last  संसार  Cup  अभियान  in 2000  वे   किया   पहनें  a shirt  featuring   the   वेल्श  flag ,  adding  a touch  of  green and white  .
The  टोली  is  ज्ञात  as `` The Dragons ''  और  so the teams logo on  the  shirt is a red dragon .
the  team date back to 1907 , making them the  तीसरा  oldest  नेशनल   पक्ष   बाद   इंग्लैण्ड  and New Zealand .
And it was  a  touring New  जीलैंड  side  कि   वेल्स   पहला  played against in 1908 , winning 9-8 at  aberdare  .
Since then  वेल्स   have  regularly played England  ,   चूंकि  1935 France , as well as welcomed the touring  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  and New Zealand teams , although  वे   rarely   toured  themselves , not playing a match in the  दक्षिणी  Hemisphere  जबतक   1975  .
लिये  twenty-six years Wales  competed   विरूद्ध  their two biggest  विरोधियों  , England and France , in the European  राष्ट्र  Cup  ,  winning  the  trophy  चार  times .
वेल्स   have  also competed in the World  कप   on   तीन   अवसरों   ,  the first  समय  being in 1975 .
In  1995   और   2000  they had their  सबसे  successful tournaments to date , surprisingly  बनाना   the  Semi-Finals  on   दोनो  occasions  पहले  being beaten  by  England  और   ऑस्ट्रेलिया   क्रमशः   .
Wales  विफल  to qualify for the 2008 World Cup , being  the  second highest  क्रमित  side not to  do  so  ,   having   खोया   to  Scotland  on  points difference  over   दो  matches .
In  2008  Australian John  डिक्सन   became  the  नई  head coach  और  appointed  ली   briers  as captain , having  निभाई   लिये   वेल्स  since 1998  .
in  recent seasons Wales have taken massive strides  अंतर्गत   पूर्व   खिलाड़ी  Iestyn  हैरिस  who  रै   coached  Wales to  वापस   to  back European  कप   सफलताओं  , which  culminated  in  a   चार  Nations  रूप  in 2011 .
Cardiomyopathy  (  literally  ``   दिल  muscle disease  ''   )   is  the  measurable  deterioration  of  the function of  the   myocardium  ( the  दिल  muscle  )  for any reason ,  प्रायः   अग्रणी   to  heart  विफलता  ; common symptoms are dyspnea ( breathlessness ) and peripheral edema (  सूजन  of  the   टाँगे  )  .
लोगों   साथ   cardiomyopathy   हैं  often at risk of dangerous  फ़ॉर्म   of  irregular  दिल  beat and sudden cardiac death .
The  सबसे   आम  form of cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy  .
Fuck  in  its  शाब्दिक   अर्थ  refers to  the   अधिनियम   of  sexual  मैथुन   .
it   is  an English  शब्द  that  is  often used  as  a profanity  ,  either to denote disdain or  as   an  intensifier .
the   उत्पत्ति  of  the  word is obscure .
it   is   प्रायः  considered to  be   पहला  attested  to   around  1475 , but  it   may   be   considerably  older .
in  modern usage , fuck  और   इसके  derivatives  (  such as fucker and fucking  )   can  be used  in   the  position  of  a noun  ,  a verb , an adjective or an  क्रियाविशेषण   .
वहीँ   हैं   अनेक  common phrases which make use of the  शब्द  , as well as a  क्रमांक  of compounds incorporating it  ,  such  as  motherfucker  .
Note  :  this  आलेख  adopts the U.S.  विभाग  of Transportation  's   परिभाषा   of  a passenger  गाडी  , to  औसत   a   car   or  truck  ,  used for passengers  ,  excluding buses and  रेल   .
The United  राज्य  is home to the largest passenger  गाडी  market of any country in the world  .
Overall ,  वहीँ   यहूद   an  estimated 254.4  लाख  registered passenger vehicles in  the  United States according  to  a 2007 DOT study .
इस  number  ,   साथ  with  the  average age of  वाहनों   ,  has increased steadily since 1960  ,   indicating  a  growing  number of  वाहनों  per  capita  .
The Chinese  car   मार्केट  , however  ,  is poised  to  soon  exceed   the  United States ;  by  the end  of   2012  , there  यहूद   over   240   लाख   गाड़ियाँ   on  the road in China  .
The  संयुक्त  States  is  also home  to   तीन  large vehicle manufacturers : General Motors ,  घाट  Motor Company and Chrysler , which have historically been referred to as  the  ``  बिग  Three  .   ''
क्रिसलर  however  is   no   longer   among  the top  तीन  ; but is number  पाँच  , behind Toyota  और   होंडा  .
The  मोटर   car   रै  clearly  become   an   अभिन्न   भाग   of   अमरीकी  life ,  साथ  vehicles  outnumbering  licensed drivers .
नैदानिक  laboratory in a  हॉस्पिटल  setting  प्रर्दशित   अनेक   स्वचालित   analysers  .
a  medical laboratory  or  clinical  प्रयोगशाला  is a laboratory  जहाँ  tests are done on clinical  नमूनों  in order to get  सूचना  about  the  health of a patient as pertaining  to  the diagnosis  ,  treatment , and prevention of  बीमारी  .
in  poker  ,  players  construct  hands of five  ताश  according to  predetermined  rules  ,   जिससे   vary   according  to which  रूपांतर  of poker is being  निभाई  .
These  हैंड्स   हैं   compared   using  a hand ranking system that  is   मानक  across  सब   विसंगतियाँ   of   पोकर   ,  the player with the highest-ranking  हाथ  winning  कि  particular deal in most variants  of   पोकर  .
in  some variants ,  the  lowest-ranking hand can win or tie .
ये  hand rankings  हैं  also used  in   कुछ   अन्य   कार्ड  games , and  in  poker  dice  .
The ranking of a  particular  hand  is  increased by  सहित   अनेक  cards of the same  कार्ड   रैंक   ,   by  all five cards being  इससे  the  वही   सूट  ,  or   by   सब  five cards being  of  consecutive  रैंक  .
The relative ranking of  the   विभिन्न   हाथ  categories  is  based  on  the probability  of  being  randomly  dealt  ऐसे   a  hand from  a  well- shuffled deck .
ब्रूस  Randall Hornsby (  born  November  23   ,   1954  ) is an  अमरीकी  virtuoso ; a  सिंगर  , pianist  ,  synthesizer  ,   accordion  , and dulcimer  खिलाड़ी  ,  और   songwriter   .
ज्ञात  for the spontaneity  और  creativity of his  सजीव   प्रदर्शन   ,  Hornsby draws frequently  इससे  classical  ,  jazz ,  ब्लूग्रास   ,  folk , Motown ,  इन्जील  , rock , blues , and jam band musical traditions with his songwriting  और  the seamless improvisations contained  भीतर  .
hornsby  's  रिकार्डिंग  have been  recognised   on   a  number of occasions with industry  पुरस्कार  ,  सहित   the  Best New Artist Grammy in 1987  साथ  Bruce Hornsby and  the   दायरा  , the Best Bluegrass  रिकॉर्डिंग   ग्रैमी   in   1990  , and the  बेहतरीन  Pop  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल   ग्रैमी  in 1993 .
Hornsby  रै   भी   हासिल  recognition for  उसके   सोलो   एल्बम  and  प्रदर्शन  , his  touring  band  ब्रूस  Hornsby and the  noisemakers   ,  his bluegrass project  साथ   रिकी  Skaggs and  उसके  appearances  as  a  session-   और  guest-musician .
he  also  collaborated   साथ  Grateful  मुर्दे   और   थी  a member of  the  band  इससे  September  1990  to  कूच  1992  ,   playing  at over one  सौ  shows  दौरान   कि  period  .
Sugarcane plantation  in   ग्रामीण   क्यूबा
कृषि   in   क्यूबा  has  निभाई   an  important part in the economy  लिये  several  सौ  years  .
Agriculture contributes  कम  than  10  percent to the  सकल  domestic  उत्पाद  (  जीडीपी   )  , but it  employs  roughly  20  percent  of  the working  जनसांख्यिकी  .
About  30  percent of the  देश   's  land is used for crop cultivation .
The  अकुशल   agricultural  industry in Cuba  रै   led   to  the need to import large  amounts  of foods  .
क्यूबा   अभी   imports  about 80 % of the food it rations to the public .
The rationing program accounts for  परिचय   a  third  of   the   खाना  energy  the   औसत  Cuban consumes .
Overall  ,  however , Cuba  is   निर्भर  on  imports  for  तभी  16 %  of  its food .
सही
Mega  लाखो  (  initially   पुकारा  The Big Game  आचमन  Millions as  the  successor of The Big  खेल   )  is  an  American  multi-jurisdictional  $ 1 lottery  खेल  .
The  पहला  ( The Big  खेल   )  Mega Millions drawing was in  2002   (  see below )  .
the   न्यूनतम  Mega Millions  advertised   जैकपॉट  is $ 12,000,000  ,   सशुल्क  in 26 equal  वार्षिक  installments ( unless  the  cash option is  चुनी   )  ;  प्रायः  , the jackpot increases when there is  no  top-prize winner .
However  ,   despite  no  जैकपॉट   विजेता   लिये   the   $   12,000,000   दिसम्बर   18  , 2012 drawing , the  जैकपॉट  remained  at   $   12,000,000  for the drawing to  be   आयोजित  on December 21 .
( See below  लिये  information  on  how the  खेल  's  जैकपॉट  is funded . )
Reflecting  आम  practice among  अमरीकी  lotteries ,  the  jackpot is advertised  as   a  nominal  मान   of  annual  किश्तों   .
a  cash value option  (   the  usual choice  )  ,  जब  chosen  by   a  jackpot  विजेता   (   देखिए  below ) ,  pays   the  approximate present value of  the  installments .
आचमन   लाखो   फिलहाल   उपयोग   a  5/56 (  श्वेत  balls  )   प्लस  1/46 ( the  आचमन  Ball  )  double  मेट्रिक्स  to select  इसके  winning numbers .
प्रत्येक  game  लागत  $ 1 .
In 43 of  the  44  आचमन  Millions  jurisdictions   (  California is the exception )  ,   वहीँ  is  an  option ,  पुकारा   megaplier  ( such games are $ 2  प्रत्येक   )  where  non-jackpot  prizes  हैं  multiplied by  2   ,   3   ,  or 4 .
The Megaplier  थी   बना   उपलब्धियाँ  to all  आचमन   लाखो   jurisdictions   in   जनवरी  2011 ; it began as  a  Texas  -only  option  .
Mega Millions  is   drawn   at  10:59 p.m.  पूर्वी   समय  Tuesdays and Fridays  ,  including  छुट्टियाँ   .
Mega Millions is  administered  by  a  consortium of  इसके   12  original lotteries  और  the drawings are held at WSB-TV in Atlanta , Georgia .
पर्यवेक्षित  by the  जॉर्जिया   लॉटरी  .
The  largest  jackpot in  आचमन  Millions ,  as  well as in  अमरीकी  lottery history  ,  was $  656,000,000  annuitized ( with  a   नकदी  option  of   $  474,000,000  )   लिये  the March 30 , 2012  आरेखण   in  which there were  तीन  jackpot-winning  टिकटें  ; one each in Illinois , Kansas  ,   और  Maryland .
All three tickets had  महरूम   claimed  as of April  18  , with  प्रत्येक  set of  विजेता   चुनना  the cash  विकल्प   .
is  a  Japanese manga  श्रेणी  created  by   लेखक   tsugumi  Ohba and manga artist  takeshi  Obata  .
The  प्रमुख   अक्षर   is  Light Yagami , a high school student who discovers a  अलौकिक  notebook , the `` Death Note '' , dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a god of  मौत  ) named Ryuk .
The Death Note  अनुदान  its  उपयोक्ता  the ability to  मार  anyone whose  नाम   और  face they  जान  , by writing the name in the notebook while picturing their  फेस  .
The  श्रेणी   centers   around   लाइट  's attempt to  बनाएँ  and  नियम  a world  ``  cleansed  of   दुष्ट  '' as  ``  God ''  using   the  notebook , and the efforts of a  जासूस  known  as   l   to  stop  उसे  .
Death Note was first  serialized   in   108  chapters  by  Shueisha in the  जापानी  manga magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump from December  2003   to  May 2006 .
the  series  थी  also published  in  tankōbon  स्वरूप  in  जापानी   starting  in  may  2004  और  ending  in  October  2006   साथ  a total of  तेरह   आयतन   .
the   दुश्मनी  series  aired  in  जापानी  from October  3   ,  2006  ,  to  जून  26  ,   2007  .
रचित   of  37  एपीसोड  , the anime was  विकसित   by   madhouse   और  directed  by  Tetsuro Araki .
A  लाइट  novel  आधारित  on the  श्रेणी  , written by Nisio Isin , was released in Japan .
Additionally ,  विभिन्न   वीडियो  games have been published  by  Konami for Nintendo DS .
the  series  थी   adapted   into   live-action   films  released in Japan on June 17 , 2006  ,  November  3  , 2006  ,  and  फ़रवरी  2 ,  2008  .
Viz Media licensed  the  Death Note manga in North America  और  has  प्रकाशित   सब   the  twelve  आयतन  from the series , a 13th volume  जिससे   serves   as   a   ``  reader  's  guide ''  ,   as  well  as  the light novels  .
the  episodes  इससे  the anime  पहला   appeared   in   उत्तर   अमेरिका   as  downloadable by  ign  .
viz  later  licensed  the anime series and  it  aired on Bionix in Canada and on Cartoon Network in the United  राज्य  .
the  live-action films briefly played in  निश्चित   उत्तर  American  थिएटर   चूंकि  2008  .
however   ,  none of  the  video  खेल   have   यूँ   दूर  been published  in  North America  or  Europe .
Death Note  is  one  of  Weekly Shōnen  jumps   best-selling  manga  श्रेणी  of all time  ,  with  बिक्री  over 26.5 million  नक़ल  .
Halloween or Hallowe'en  (  a  संकुचन   of  `` All  hallows   '  Evening  ``  )  ,   भी   ज्ञात   as  All Hallows  '  Eve , is a  वार्षिक  celebration  observed  in  a  number  of  countries on  अक्तूबर   31  ,  the   संध्या  of  the  Western Christian  feast  of  सब   hallows   (  or All  संतो   )  and  the  day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas .
according   to   अनेक  scholars , All  hallows   '  Eve is  a  Christianised feast originally influenced by  पश्चिमी  European  कटाई   त्यौहार   ,  and  त्यौहार   of  the dead with possible pagan roots  ,  particularly  the  Celtic  samhain   .
Other  विद्वानों  maintain that  it  originated  independently   of  Samhain and has  solely  Christian roots  .
Typical festive Halloween  क्रियाएँ   शामिल  trick-or-treating (  भी  known as `` guising ``  )  ,  उपस्थित  costume  पार्टियों   ,   नक्काशी  pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns  ,  lighting bonfires , apple bobbing , visiting  haunted  attractions ,  playing   pranks  , telling  डरावने   कहानियां   ,  and  watching  horror  films   .
New York City  taxicabs  during Midtown rush  घंटा  in  मैनहटन
the   taxicabs  of New York  नगर  , with  उनके   distinctive   पीला  paint  ,  are a widely recognized icon of the  नगर  .
taxicabs  are  संचालित   by  private  कंपनियाँ  and licensed  by   the   नई   यॉर्क  City Taxi  और   लिमोज़ीन  Commission  (  TLC )  .
it  also oversees over  40,000   अन्य  for-hire vehicles ,  सहित  ``  ब्लैक  cars  ''  , commuter  वैन  and  ambulettes   .
``  medallion  taxis , '' the  परिचित   पीला   कैब  , are the  तभी  vehicles in  the  city  permitted  to pick  up   यात्री   in  response to a street  hail  .
Schematic  क्रॉस  section of  भाग   of   पत्ता  , xylem shown as red circles at figure 8  .
जाइलम  is  एक  of  the  two  प्रकार  of transport tissue in vascular plants ( phloem is the  अन्य   )   .
The  शब्द  xylem is derived  इससे  the Greek word ξύλον  (   xylon  ) , meaning ``  लकडी   ''   ;   the   best-known  xylem  ऊतक  is wood  ,   हालांकि  it is  मिला  throughout  the   संयंत्र  .
इसके  basic  फलन   is  to transport  जल  , but  it   भी  transports  कुछ   nutrients  through  the   संयंत्र  .
U.S.  महिलाओं   suffragists  demonstrating  लिये   the   सही   to   vote  , February 1913  .
महिलाओं   's   suffrage  also known as  स्त्री  suffrage  is  the  सही  of women to vote and to run  लिये  office .
सीमित   मतदान  rights were gained by women in Sweden ,  फिनलैंड  and some western U.S.  राज्य   in  the late 19th  सदी  .
अंतरराष्ट्रीय   संगठन  were  formed   to  coordinate efforts ,  विशेषकर   the  International Council  of  Women  (  1888 ) and  the  International Woman  suffrage  Alliance ( 1904 ) .
In 1893 , New  जीलैंड  , then  a  self-governing British colony ,  granted   वयस्क   महिलाओं   the  right  to   vote  and  the   self-governing  British colony  of  South Australia did the same  in   1895  ,  लकिन   भी  permitted women to run for office  .
ऑस्ट्रेलिया  federated in  1901   ,  and  महिलाओं  acquired the right  to  vote  और   स्टैंड   in   संघीय   चुनावों   इससे  1902 ,  हालांकि   uneven   प्रतिबंध   on  Aboriginal women voting  in   नेशनल   चुनावों   यहूद  not completely  removed  until 1962  .
The first  यूरोपीय   देश   to   introduce   महिलाओं   's   suffrage  was the Grand Duchy of  फिनलैंड  , then part  of   the   रूसी  Empire ,  जिससे   भी   उत्पादित   the  world 's first female members  of  parliament  in  the 1907 parliamentary elections  .
Norway  followed  ,  granting  full  महिलाओं  's suffrage  in  1913 .
in  most Western  देशों  ,  महिलाओं   's  suffrage came after World I War I  i   ,  with some important late adopters being France in 1944 and Switzerland in  1971   .
Women  's   suffrage   रै   generally  been  पहचाना   बाद  political  अभियान   to  obtain it  यहूद   waged  .
In many  देशों  it  थी   granted   पहले  universal suffrage .
Women 's suffrage  is  explicitly stated as a right under the  सम्मेलन   on   the  Elimination of  सब  Forms  of  Discrimination  विरूद्ध   महिलाओं   ,   अपनाया  by  the   संयुक्त  Nations  in  1979 .
the  Thirteenth  टेल  ( 2006 )  by   डायने   setterfield   is   a   गोथिक  suspense novel ,  the   लेखक   's   पहला  published book  .
Jehovah 's  गवाह   is  a millenarian  restorationist   ईसाई  denomination with  nontrinitarian  beliefs  पृथक   इससे  mainstream Christianity  .सोर्सs   लिये   descriptors  :  •   millenarian   :   •  Restorationist :  •  Christian  :  • Denomination  :   the  organization reports worldwide  सदस्यता   of   over  7.78  लाख   adherents   शामिल   in   इंजीलवाद   ,   सम्मेलन  attendance  of  over  12  million  ,   और  annual Memorial  उपस्थिति  of over  19   लाख   .
वे  are  निर्देशित   by  the Governing  देह   of  Jehovah 's  गवाह   ,  a group of elders  in  Brooklyn , New York ,  कि  establishes  सब  doctrines .
Jehovah 's Witnesses  '  beliefs are based on their interpretations  of   the  Bible and  वे   prefer  to use  उनके   अपना  translation , the New World  अनुवाद  of the Holy Scriptures .
वे   मानना   कि  the destruction of  the  present  संसार  system at  armageddon  is imminent , and  कि  the  स्थापना   of   परमेश्वर  's kingdom on earth  is   the  only  समाधान  for all problems faced by mankind .
the  group  उभरा   इससे   the   बाइबल   छात्र   गति   —founded   in  the  लेट  1870s by  चार्ल्स  Taze Russell with  the  formation  of  Zion 's Watch Tower Tract Society  —with   significant  organizational  और  doctrinal changes under the  नेतृत्व  of  जोसेफ  Franklin Rutherford .
The name  यहोवा  's  गवाह  , based  on  Isaiah 43:10–12 , was adopted in 1931 to distinguish themselves  इससे   अन्य  Bible Student groups and  symbolize   a  break with the legacy of Russell 's traditions  .
यहोवा  's  गवाह   हैं  best  ज्ञात  for their door-to-door  उपदेश  , distributing  साहित्य   ऐसे   as  The Watchtower  और  Awake !
, and refusing  सैन्य   सेवा  and blood  transfusions  .
वे  consider use of the name  यहोवा   vital   लिये  proper  इबादत  .
They reject Trinitarianism , inherent  अमरत्व   of   the  soul ,  और   hellfire  , which they consider to be  unscriptural  doctrines .
वे  do not observe  क्रिसमस  , Easter , birthdays , or  अन्य  holidays  और   कस्टम  they consider  to   have   pagan  origins incompatible with  christianity  .
Adherents commonly refer  to   उनके  body  of   मान्यताओं   as  ``  the  truth  ''   और   consider  themselves to  be  ``  in  the  सच्चाई  ''  .
They consider  धर्मनिरपेक्ष  society to be morally corrupt and  अंतर्गत  the influence  of   शैतानी  , and most  सीमा  their  सोशल   बातचीत  with  non-witnesses   .
Congregational disciplinary  क्रियाएँ  include  disfellowshipping   ,  their term for formal  expulsion   और   shunning   .
Baptized individuals who formally  छोड़   हैं   माना  disassociated  और  are also shunned .
Disfellowshipped  और  disassociated individuals  may   आखिरकार  be  reinstated   if   deemed   repentant  .
The  धर्म   's   स्थिति  regarding  ईमानदार  objection  to  military service and refusal to salute national flags has  brought  it into conflict  साथ  some governments .
नतीजतन  ,  यहोवा  's  गवाह  have been persecuted and their activities are banned or restricted  in   कुछ  countries .
persistent  legal  चुनौतियां   by  Jehovah 's Witnesses have influenced  विधान  related to  सिविल   अधिकारों  in several  देशों  .
पिछला   टैंगो   in  Paris  (  ) is  a  1972 Franco-Italian  रोमांटिक  Drama film  निर्देशित  by  बर्नार्डो  Bertolucci which  portrays  a recent American widower  जो  begins an  बेनाम  sexual  संबंध  with a  यंग   ,  betrothed Parisian woman  .
it  stars Marlon  ब्रैंडो  ,  मरिया  Schneider , and  jean-pierre   léaud  .
The  फिल्मी  's  कच्चा  portrayal of sexual violence  और   emotional   turmoil   led  to  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   विवाद  and drew various levels  of  government  सेंसरशिप  .
the  MPAA gave the film an X rating upon release  in  the United States .
बाद   revisions  were made  to  the  mpaa   दरजा   कोड   ,  it was classified  as  an NC-17  in  1997  .
mgm  released a  censored   r-rated  cut in 1981  .
The film  रै   इसके   nc-17  rating for `` some  सुस्पष्ट   यौन  content . ''
Windows  xp  is  an  operating system  उत्पादित  by  microsoft  for  उपयोग  on personal  कंप्यूटर  ,  सहित   घर   और  business desktops ,  लैपटॉप  and  मीडिया  centers .
First released to computer  निर्माताओं   on   अगस्त   24   ,   2001  ,  it  is the second  सबसे  popular  संस्करण   of   खिड़कियाँ   ,  based  on  installed  उपयोक्ता   आधार  .
The name `` XP  ''  is short for  ``   अनुभव  '' , highlighting  the  enhanced  उपयोक्ता  experience .
Windows XP  ,   the   successor   to  Windows  2000   और  Windows ME  ,  was the  पहला  consumer-oriented operating  प्रणाली   उत्पादित   by  Microsoft to be  निर्मित  on the  खिड़कियाँ  NT kernel .
खिड़कियाँ   xp   थी   released  worldwide for retail sale on October 25  ,  2001 , and over  400   लाख  copies  यहूद   in   उपयोग  in  जनवरी  2006 .
it  was succeeded  by   खिड़कियाँ  Vista in  जनवरी  2007  .
सीधा   oem   और   खुदरा   बिक्री  of Windows XP ceased  on   जून  30 , 2008 .
Microsoft continued  to  sell  खिड़कियाँ   xp  through  उनके  System Builders (  छोटी   oems  who  बेचें   समवेत  computers ) program until  जनवरी  31  ,  2009 .
on  April 10 , 2012 , Microsoft reaffirmed that extended support  लिये  Windows XP and Office 2003  होता  end  on  April  8  , 2014 and  सुझाया   कि  administrators begin preparing to  migrate  to a  नए  OS .
The NT -based versions of  खिड़कियाँ  , which  हैं  programmed in C , C++ ,  और  assembly  ,  are  ज्ञात  for  उनके   improved   स्थिरता  and  दक्षता   over  the  9x  versions of  microsoft  Windows .
Windows XP  प्रस्तुत  a significantly redesigned graphical  उपयोक्ता  interface  ,  a  बदलें   microsoft  promoted as more user-friendly than previous  संस्करण  of  खिड़कियाँ  .
In an  attempt   to   further  ameliorate the ``  dll   नरक  `` that  plagued  the past versions of  खिड़कियाँ  ,  improved   side-by-side   सभा   प्रौद्योगिकी  in  खिड़कियाँ  XP  allows   side-by-side   संस्थापना  ,  पंजीकरण  and servicing  of   अनेक  versions of globally shared  तन्त्र   components  in  पूरा  isolation .
It is also the first version of  खिड़कियाँ  to use product  सक्रियण   to   कॉम्बैट  illegal copying .
दौरान   खिड़कियाँ  XP  's  development  ,  the  प्रोजेक्ट   थी  codenamed ``  whistler  '' ,  बाद  Whistler , British  कोलंबिया   ,   as  many  microsoft   कर्मचारी   skied  at the  whistler-blackcomb  ski resort  .
according   to  web analytics data  उत्पन्न  by Net Applications , Windows XP  थी   the   सबसे  widely  प्रयुक्त  operating  प्रणाली   जबतक  August  2012   ,   जब   खिड़कियाँ   7   overtook  it .
,  खिड़कियाँ   xp  market  share   is  at 38.99  %   ,   having   decreased  almost  प्रत्येक   माह   चूंकि   at  least  नवम्बर   2007   ,  the  पहला   माह   लिये  which statistics are  सरेआम   उपलब्धियाँ   इससे  Net  अनुप्रयोग  .
``  Por una  cabeza   ''   is   an  Argentine  टैंगो  with music and lyrics written  in   1935  by  कार्लोस  Gardel  और   अल्फ्रेडो  Le Pera respectively .
The name is  a  Spanish  horse-racing   phrase   अर्थ  `` by a  सिर  '' , which  refers  to  a  horse  जीतना  a  रेस  by the  लंबाई  of  एक  head .
the   गीत  speak of a compulsive horse-track gambler  जो   compares  his  व्यसन   लिये  horses with  उसके  attraction to  महिलाओं   .
Alfredo  le  Pera was a  ब्राज़ीलियाई  from  são  Paulo , a much Italian-influenced area  in  Brazil ,  और  also  the   जन्मस्थान   of  Zequinha  de   abreu  , composer of Tico-Tico  no   fubá  .
le  Pera and Gardel died in an airplane crash  in  Medellín ,  (   कोलंबिया  ) ,  on  June 24 , 1935  .
Por  ऊना  Cabeza
the  tango has since  महरूम  performed by numerous tango orchestras  .
Tango  दृश्यों  with  ``  Por  ऊना  Cabeza ''  appear   in  Delicatessen ( 1991  )   ,   सैंट  of a Woman (  1992   )  , Schindler 's  सूची  (  1993  ) , True  झूठ   (   1994  )  ,   टाइटैनिक   (   1996  ) , Bad  सांता  ( Uncut  संस्करण   ,  2003 )  ,  All  the  King  's  Men  (  2006 )  ,   ग्रह  51  (  2009 ) ,  एपीसोड   37  of Nip/Tuck (  2003–2010  ) , episode  9   of   दक्षिण  Korean drama  श्रेणी   मीठी   जासूस  (  2005–08  )  ,  the  शुरूआत   और  ending credits of  the   दक्षिण  Korean  नाटक  broadcast I  'm   sorry   ,   i  Love  तुम  (  2004  ) , and the episode `` Down  the  Rabbit  छेद  `` (  2007  )  .
In the movie Frida  (  Salma  हायेक  ,  2002   )   ,  Gardel is  सुना  singing it on  a  radio .
it  is also quoted  in  David Del Tredici  's  ``  शुभ  News  !
Nilda  is   वापस  '' (  इससे  the  सोंग  cycle Miz Inez Sez ) .
in  Scent of  a   स्त्री  (  1992  ) ,  the  tango is performed by the  ``  The  टैंगो  Project  ''  , who actually  appear  in the  नाचना  scene starring Al Pacino  (   the  recording  प्रयुक्त  is available on one of their CD  एल्बम  ) .
जॉन   विलियम्स   arranged  a version of the  टुकड़ा  that appears  on  the  एल्बम  `` Cinema  serenade   ''   साथ  the violin solo performed  by   itzhak  Perlman .
Perlman  और  Williams ( conducting  )  have  भी  performed  the  piece together  in  live  कॉन्सर्ट   .
in  2012 a  नृत्य   संस्करण  was released by  the  group `` Da  करेरा  ''  featuring  the original vocal  रिकॉर्डिंग  by Carlos Gardel  .
The  baroreflex  or baroreceptor reflex is one  of  the body  's   homeostatic   mechanisms  for  maintaining  blood pressure .
it   provides  a  ऋणात्मक  feedback loop in  जिससे  an elevated blood pressure  reflexively   कल्याणकारी   दिल  rate to decrease  इसलिए  causing blood  दबाव  to  घटी   ;  likewise  ,   decreased   रक्त  pressure activates the baroreflex , causing heart rate to  बढ़ाएँ   यूँ  causing an increase in  रक्त  pressure  .
The  प्रणाली  relies on specialized  न्यूरॉन्स   ,  known  as  baroreceptors ,  in  the  aortic   मेहराब  , carotid sinuses , and elsewhere to monitor changes in blood pressure and relay  उन्हें  to the brainstem  .
Subsequent changes in  रक्त  pressure  हैं  mediated by  the  autonomic  बेचैन   प्रणाली  .
Atrial natriuretic  पेप्टाइड  forms a parallel  ऋणात्मक   प्रतिक्रिया  loop  in  an  endocrinological  contrast  to   the   renin-angiotensin  system  .
The Loma Prieta earthquake , also known as the Quake of  '89  and  the  World Series  भूकंप  , was a major earthquake that  struck   the  San  फ्रांसिस्को   खाड़ी  Area of California on October 17 ,  1989  ,  at   5:04   pm  local time .
Caused  by  a slip along  the   सैन  Andreas  दोष  ,  the  quake  lasted   10–15  seconds  और   measured   6.9   on  both  the   पल   परिमाण   स्केल   (  surface-wave magnitude  7.1   )  and on  the  open-ended  रिक्टर  Scale .
The quake killed 63 people  throughout  northern California , injured 3,757 and left some 3,000–12,000  लोगों  homeless .
The  भूकंप   occurred   दौरान   the  warm-up  अभ्यास  for  the  third game  of  the  1989  World Series ,  featuring   दोनो   of  the Bay Area  's  Major  लीग  Baseball  टीमों   ,  the  ओकलैंड   एथलेटिक्स  and  the  San Francisco Giants .
Because of game-related sports coverage , this was  the  first  प्रमुख  earthquake in the United States to have its initial jolt broadcast live  on  television .
साहूकार   in  the standard  staunton  pattern
The  साहूकार   (  ♙♟  )  is  the   सबसे  numerous  और   in  most  हालातों   the  weakest  टुकड़ा  in the  खेल  of chess , historically  representing  infantry  or   ,  more particularly  ,  armed peasants  or  pikemen .
in   शतरंज  ,  प्रत्येक   खिलाड़ी   begins   the  game with eight  प्यादे  ,  एक   on  each square of  the  rank  तत्काल  in front  of  the  अन्य  pieces  .
( In algebraic  संकेतन   ,   the   श्वेत   प्यादे   प्रारंभ  on  a2  , b2  ,  c2 , ... ,  h2   ,   जबकि   ब्लैक   प्यादे   प्रारंभ  on a7 ,  b7  , c7 ,  ...   ,  h7  .   )
व्यक्तिगत   प्यादे  are referred  to  by  the   संचिका   on  which  वे   स्टैंड   .
For example , one speaks of  ``  White 's f-pawn  ''  or  ``   ब्लैक   's   b-pawn  '' ,  or   कम   commonly  ( using  वर्णनात्मक  notation  )  ,  ``   श्वेत  's king 's bishop  साहूकार  ''  or   ``  Black 's  महारानी  's  नाईट  pawn  ''  .
It  is  also common to  refer  to a  rook   साहूकार  , meaning any pawn on the  a-  or h-file  ,  a knight pawn ( on the b- or  g-file   )   ,  a bishop  साहूकार   (   on  the  c-  or f-file  )  , a  महारानी  pawn  (  on the d-file ) , a king pawn ( on  the   e-file  ) , and a  सेंट्रल  pawn  (  on either the d- or e-file )  .
The military forces  of  the  संसार  have  differing   approaches  to the  enlistment  of homosexual (  gay  and  लेस्बियन  ) and bisexual  individuals  .
The armed forces of  सबसे  developed  देशों  have now  removed  policies excluding non-heterosexual  individuals   (  with  सख्त  policies on  यौन   उत्पीड़न  ) .
Nations that  परमिट  gay people  to  serve openly in the  सैन्य   शामिल  the  4   of  the  5   सदस्यों  of the  un   सुरक्षा  Council  (   संयुक्त  States  ,  United Kingdom  ,  France , and  रूस  ) ,  the  Republic of  चीन   (   ताईवान  )  ,   ऑस्ट्रेलिया   ,  Israel , South  अफ़्रीकी  , Argentina  ,   और  all  नाटो  members excluding  तुर्कों  .
Hydrogen production is the family of  औद्योगिक   विधि  for generating hydrogen .
Currently the  प्रबल  technology  लिये  direct production is steam reforming  इससे   hydrocarbons  .
अनेक  other methods  हैं  known including electrolysis and  thermolysis  .
In 2006 ,  the  United States was  अनुमानित  to  have  a  उत्पादन  capacity of  11   लाख   टन  of hydrogen .
5  million  टन   of  hydrogen were  खपत   on-site  in  आयल  refining  ,  and in  the  production of  अमोनिया  ( Haber  प्रक्रम   )   और   methanol  ( reduction  of   कार्बन  monoxide )  .
0.4  million tonnes were an  incidental   by-product  of  the   chlor-alkali   प्रक्रम  .
हाइड्रोजन   उत्पादन  is an estimated $  100   अरब   उद्योग   .
A basis  पाइंट   (  often denoted  as   bp  , colloquially referred to  in  the plural  as   ``   bips  '' , also known as  a   ``  beep  ''   )  is  a   ईकाई  equal  to  one hundredth of  a   प्रतिशत   पाइंट   ,  or one part per  टेन   हजार   ,  1/10000  .
The same  ईकाई   is  also ( rarely  )   पुकारा  a  permyriad   ,   वस्तुतः   अर्थ  'for  (  every ) myriad ( ten  हजार   )   '  , and in  कि   कॉन्टेक्स्ट  is written with which looks  जैसे   a  percent  चिह्न   (  % ) with two extra zeroes at  the   समाप्त  (  जैसे  a  stylized  form  of   the  four zeros in the denominator  ,  although it originates as  a  natural extension of the percent  (  % ) and permille ( ‰ )  लक्षण  ) .
A basis  पाइंट  is defined as:
1  basis  पाइंट  =  1  permyriad =  एक  one-hundredth  प्रतिशत
1   bp   =   1   =  0.01  %  = 0.1‰ =  10−4   =   =  0.0001
1  %  = 100  bp   =   100
आधार   अंक  are used as a  सुविधाजनक  unit of measurement in  contexts  where  प्रतिशत   मतभेद  of less  than   1   %   हैं  discussed  .
the  most common  उदाहरण  is interest rates ,  जहाँ   मतभेद  in interest  दरों  of  कम  than  1  % per  साल   हैं  usually meaningful to talk about  .
For example  ,  a difference  of  0.10 percentage points  is  equivalent to  a  change of 10  आधार  points (  e.g  .  a   4.67  % rate  increases  by 10 basis  अंक  to 4.77 %  )   .
Like  प्रतिशत  points , basis  अंक  avoid  the  ambiguity between relative and absolute  चर्चाएँ  about interest  दरों   by  dealing only with the  निरपेक्ष  change in numeric value of  a  rate .
For example , if a  रपट   says   वहीँ  has been  a  `` 1 % increase  ''   इससे   a   10  % interest rate , this could refer  to   an   बढ़ाएँ  either  इससे  10 % to 10.1 % ( relative , 1  %  of 10 %  )  , or from 10  %  to  11  %  (   निरपेक्ष  ,  1  %  प्लस  10  %   )   .
If  ,  however , the report  says   वहीँ  has been a  ``  10  आधार   पाइंट   बढ़ाएँ  '' from  a   10  % interest  रेट  ,  तब   we  know that the  ब्याज   रेट  of 10 % has  increased  by 0.10 %  (  the absolute  बदलें  ) to a 10.1 % rate  .
It is  आम   अभ्यास   in  the financial  उद्योग   to   उपयोग  basis points to  denote  a rate change in a financial instrument , or the difference ( spread  )  between two interest rates ,  सहित  the yields  of  fixed-income securities  .
Since certain loans  और   bonds  may commonly  be   कोटेड  in relation to some  अनुक्रमणिका   or  underlying  सुरक्षा  , they will often be quoted as  a   स्प्रेड  over ( or  अंतर्गत   )   the   अनुक्रमणिका   .
For example , a  ऋण   कि  bears  ब्याज  of 0.50  %  per annum  ऊपर   the  London Interbank  offered  Rate ( LIBOR ) is said to be 50 basis points  over  LIBOR  ,  which is commonly  expressed  as  ``   l+50bps   ''   or   बस   ``   l+50  '' .
the  term  ``   आधार  point '' has  इसके   origins   in  trading the ``  आधार   ''  or the spread  between   दो  interest rates .
Since the basis  is   प्रायः  small , these are quoted  multiplied  up by 10000  ,   और  hence a ``  पूरा  point '' movement in the `` basis '' is a basis  पाइंट  .
Contrast  साथ  pips in FX  आगे   बाज़ार  .
the  relationship between percentage  परिवर्तन  and basis  अंक  can  be  summarized as follows : 1  प्रतिशत  point  बदलें  =  100  basis points  ,  and  0.01  percentage  अंक  =  1  basis point  .
So , a  बंध   जिनकी  yield increases from  5  %  to  5.5  %  is  कहा   to   बढ़ाएँ  by 50  आधार   अंक  ;  or   ब्याज  rates  कि   have  risen 1 percentage  पाइंट   हैं  said  to  have increased  by   100   आधार   अंक  .
The British  royal  Family is the  समूह  of close relatives of the monarch of the United  किंगडम   .
the  term  is  also commonly applied to the same group of people who  हैं  the relations of the  monarch  in  उसके   or   उसके  role  as   sovereign  of any of  the   अन्य   राष्ट्रमंडल  realms , thus  sometimes   at   variance  with official  नेशनल  terms  लिये  the family .
Members of the  royal   परिवार  belong  to   ,   either   by  birth  or  marriage , the House of  विंडसर  ,  चूंकि   1917   ,  when George  v   बदला  the name of  the   royal  house  इससे  Saxe-Coburg and Gotha .
This decision  थी  primarily  लिया   क्युकी   ब्रिटेन  and her  साम्राज्य  were  at   युद्ध   साथ  Germany and given  the  British Royal Family 's  दमदार  German ancestry ; it  थी  felt that its  पब्लिक  image could be  improved   by  choosing  a  more British  हाउस  name .
the  new  नाम  chosen  ,   विंडसर  ,  था   बिल्कुल  no connection other  than  as the name  of   the  castle which was and continues to be a royal residence  .
हालांकि  in the United Kingdom there is  no   सख्त   विधिक  or  औपचारिक  definition  of  who is or is not  a  member  of   the  Royal Family , and  अलग  lists will  शामिल   अलग   लोगों   ,  those  carrying  the style  उसके  or His  majesty   (   hm   )   ,  or  उसके  or His  royal  Highness (  hrh   )  are  सदा  considered members , which  प्रायः   परिणाम  in  the  application  of   the  term to the monarch ,  the  consort of the monarch  ,   the   विधवा   consorts   of  previous  monarchs  , the  children  of the  monarch  and  पिछला   monarchs  ,  the   male-line   grandchildren  of  the   monarch  and  पिछला   monarchs  , and the spouses and the widows of a  monarch  's and previous  monarch  's  बेटे   और  male-line grandsons  .
On  30  November 1917 , King  जार्ज  V  जारी  Letters Patent defining  जो   हैं   सदस्यों   of  the  royal  Family ; the text of the notice from  the   लंदन  Gazette is as  follows:
In 1996  ,  Her  majesty  The Queen modified  ये   अक्षर  Patent , as was evidenced by this  सूचना  from the London Gazette:
in  2013 Letters Patent were issued  to  extend a  शीर्षक  and a  स्टाइल  borne by  सदस्यों  of the Royal Family to additional persons to  be   born  , evidenced  by  this Notice  इससे  the London Gazette:
Members  और  relatives  of  the  अंग्रेजों   royal   परिवार  historically represented the  monarch   in  various  स्थान  throughout  the  British  साम्राज्य  , sometimes  लिये   विस्तारित  periods as viceroys  ,  or  लिये   विशिष्ट   ceremonies   or  events  .
Today , they often perform ceremonial and social  कर्तव्य  throughout the United Kingdom and abroad on  निमित्त  of the United Kingdom .
aside   इससे  the monarch , their  तभी  constitutional role in  the   अफेयर्स  of government is  to   serve  , if eligible and  जब   नियुक्त  by letters patent , as  a   काउंसलर  of  राज्य  ,  दो  or  अधिक  of  जिसको   कसरत  the authority of  the   क्राउन  ( within  stipulated  limits  )  in the indisposal or absence from the  अंग्रेजों  realm of the monarch .
in   the  other realms  of  the Commonwealth  रॉयल्टी  do not serve  as  Counsellors  of  State .
However in  प्रत्येक  such  फ्रेम  the monarch  's  family  सदस्यों  may act  on  behalf  of  , are funded by ,  और  represent the  sovereign   of   कि  particular state , and not  the  United  किंगडम  .
The  महारानी   ,   उसके   consort  , her  children  and  grandchildren  , as well as all former sovereigns ' children and  grandchildren  hold places in  the  first  भाग   of   the   आधिकारिक  orders of precedence  in  England and Wales  ,  Scotland , and Northern  आयरलैंड   .
Wives of  the   कहा  enjoy their husbands ' precedence ,  और  husbands of princesses  हैं  unofficially  लकिन  habitually placed with  उनके  wives  as  well  .
However  ,  the  महारानी  changed the private order of  पूर्वता  in  the  Royal Family in  पक्ष  of Princesses Anne and Alexandra ,  जो  henceforth take  निजी   पूर्वता   over   the  Duchess of Cornwall ,  जो  is otherwise  the  realm  's   उच्चतम  ranking  स्त्री  after the  महारानी  herself .
She did not alter the  सापेक्ष   पूर्वता  of  अन्य  born-princesses ,  ऐसे  as  the  daughters of her younger sons .
हैती  (  ;   haitian  Creole Ayiti  )  ,  officially  the Republic of Haiti (  ;  )  ,  is  a  Caribbean country .
it  occupies the  पश्चिमी  ,  छोटी   portion  of the island of  हिस्पानिओला   ,  in the  वृहद  Antillean  द्वीपसमूह   ,  which  it  shares with  the   डोमिनिकन  Republic .
Ayiti  (   जमीन  of  ऊँची   kyu  ) was  the   स्वदेशी   taíno  or Amerindian name  लिये  the island  .
The  देश   's  highest  पाइंट   is  Pic la Selle , at .
The total area of  हैती   is  and its capital  is   port-au-prince  .
haitian  Creole and  फ्रेंच  are the  आधिकारिक   भाषाएं   .
हैती  's regional  ,   ऐतिहासिक  , and ethno-linguistic position  is   अद्वितीय  for  अनेक   कारण   .
it  was  the  first independent nation  of  Latin America and the  caribbean   ,   the  first black -led  गणतंत्र   in   the  world  ,  and  the  second republic in the Americas  जब  it gained independence in  1804   as   भाग   of   a  successful slave revolution lasting  nearly  a  दशक   .
In 2012 , Haiti announced  इसके  intention to seek associate  सदस्यता  status  in  the African  संघ  .
Haiti is the most populous of  the  predominantly Francophone independent  राष्ट्र  in  the   americas   .
it  is one  of  only two independent  राष्ट्र  in the Americas (  साथ   साथ  Canada  )  to  designate  French  as   an   आधिकारिक  language  ;  the  अन्य  French-speaking  क्षेत्रों  are all  विदेशी   départements  ,  or  collectivités , of  फ़्रांस  .
Haiti is  the   सबसे   populous  full member-state of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ) .
It  is  the poorest country in  the   americas   as  measured  by   the  Human Development  अनुक्रमणिका  .
Political violence has occurred  regularly   throughout  its  इतिहास  , leading  to  government instability .
Most  recently   ,   in  February 2004  ,  a  तख्तापलट  d'état originating in the  उत्तर   of   the   देश   मजबूर   the  resignation and  निर्वासन   of  President  jean-bertrand  Aristide  .
a   अस्थायी   सरकारी   took  control  साथ   सुरक्षा   provided  by the United  राष्ट्र  Stabilization Mission in  हैती  (  minustah  ) .
Michel  martelly  , the  वर्तमान  president  ,  was elected in the Haitian general election , 2011 .
The  द्वीप   रै   था   a   इतिहास  of  destructive  earthquakes  .
a  7.0 magnitude earthquake struck  हैती  on 12  जनवरी  2010 and devastated Port-au-Prince .
The highest reliable death  गिनती  was estimated at  220,000  .
haitian  government  estimates   यहूद   उच्चतर  .
The Presidential palace , Parliament and  अनेक  other important structures were destroyed  ,  along with  अनगिनत   घरों  and  व्यवसायों   ,  leaving  सैंकड़ों   of   हज़ारों  of people homeless .
The  देश  has yet to recover  इससे   the   2010  earthquake ( and subsequent incidents ) due to both the severity  of   the  damage Haiti endured  in  2010 , as well  as   a  government that  थी  ineffective well  पहले   the  earthquake .
संयुक्त  States aid organizations have donated $ 2 billion .
Combined  साथ  other  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  donations , these funds  हैं   intended   to  contribute to the  पुनर्निर्माण  of the country  .
The  खूनी  Beetroots is the  pseudonym  of Sir  bob  Cornelius Rifo  ,   the   इतालवी  electro  हाउस  and  dance-punk  music  निर्माता  ,  dj   और  photographer  .
The  खूनी   beetroots  is well-known for  the  black Venom mask he  wears  during  प्रदर्शन  .
in  fact ,  the  only identifying  पब्लिक  feature of  rifo  is the  साल  `` 1977  ''  tattooed across his chest , which is  दोनो  the year that the producer  और   punk-rock   थी   born  .
`` The Bloody Beetroots  dj   नियत  '' contains  सर  Bob Cornelius Rifo and  टॉमी  Tea .
A Motorola  सलाहकार  alphanumeric pager used  in   ब्राज़ील   in  the  1990s  , operated by Teletrim
A pager is  a  wireless telecommunications device that  receives   और   प्रदर्शक   न्यूमेरिक  or  टेक्स्ट  messages ,  or   receives  and announces  आवाज़   संदेश   .
One-way  pagers   can  only receive  संदेश  ,  जबकि   जवाब   pagers   और  two-way  pagers  can also acknowledge  ,  reply to  ,  and originate messages using an  आतंरिक   ट्रांसमीटर  .
pagers   operate  as part of a paging system  जिससे  includes  एक  or  अधिक  fixed  ट्रांसमीटरों   (   or  in the  मामला  of response  pagers   और   two-way  pagers  ,   एक   or   अधिक  base stations  )  ,  as  well  as  a  क्रमांक  of  pagers  carried  by   मोबाईल  users  .
ये  systems  can   दायरा   इससे  a restaurant system with a  सिंगल   low-power   ट्रांसमीटर  , to a  देशभर   प्रणाली   साथ   हज़ारों   of  high-power  आधार  stations  .
One of  the  first practical  paging   सेवाएं  was launched  in  1950 for  physicians  in the New York City  क्षेत्रफल  .
Physicians  सशुल्क   us   $   12   प्रति   माह  for the  सेवा  and carried a ( 6 oz  )  pager that  होता   प्राप्त  phone  संदेश  within ( 25  mi   )  of  a   सिंगल   ट्रांसमीटर  tower  .
The system  थी   manufactured   by  the Reevesound  कम्पनी  and operated by Telanswerphone  .
In  1960  ,  जॉन  Francis  मिशेल   संयुक्त  elements of Motorola 's Walkie Talkie and automobile  रेडियो  technologies to create  the   पहला   transistorized  pager  ,  and from  इस   पाइंट  , paging technology continued  to  advance ,  और   पेजर   अपनाना   जारी  to expand , until the early 1990s .
However  ,  by the mid-1990s  ,   as  cellular  technologies  became cheaper  और   अधिक   widely  available ,  उन्नत   सेवाएं  began to displace  paging  as  a   वाणिज्यिक  product  .
आज  , pagers exist largely  as  niche products , finding preferential  उपयोग  in applications  ऐसे   as  hospitals ,  पब्लिक  safety  ,  and retail locations  जहाँ  their  सादगी  , high  विश्वसनीयता  ,  और  low cost represent significant  लाभ  .
Reevesville is  a  town in  dorchester  County ,  दक्षिण  Carolina , United  राज्य   .
the  population  थी  196 at the  2010   जनसांख्यिकी   .
as  defined  by  the  u.S.   दफ्तर  of  प्रबन्धन   और   बजट  , and used by the U.S.  जनसांख्यिकी   ब्यूरो  for  सांख्यिकीय   उद्देश्य  only  ,  Reevesville is  शामिल  within the Charleston-North  charleston-summerville  metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल   .
frida   kahlo  de Rivera ( born  magdalena   कार्मेन   frieda   kahlo  y Calderón ; July  6  ,  1907  –  जुलाई  13  ,   1954  )  थी  a  मैक्सिकन  painter , born in  coyoacán  , who is best  ज्ञात  for her  self-portraits  .
Kahlo  's   जीवन   began   और  ended in Mexico City  ,  in  उसके   घर  known  as  the Blue House  .
She gave her birth  तिथि   as  July 7 ,  1910  ,  लकिन  her  जनम   प्रमाणपत्र  shows  जुलाई   6   ,  1907  .
Kahlo  था   allegedly   चाही  the year of her  जनम  to  coincide   साथ   the  year of the beginning of the Mexican  क्रान्ति  so  कि   उसके  life would begin  साथ   the   जनम  of  आधुनिक  Mexico  .
Her  कार्य  has  महरूम   मनाये   in   मैक्सिको  as  emblematic   of  national  और  indigenous tradition  ,   और   by  feminists for its  uncompromising  depiction of  the  female experience and  रूप  .
मैक्सिकन  culture and Amerindian cultural tradition  हैं   महत्वपूर्ण  in  उसके  work ,  जिससे  has  महरूम  sometimes  characterized  as Naïve art or folk art .
उसके   कार्य   रै  also been described  as  ``  surrealist  '' , and in  1938   आंद्रे   ब्रेटन  ,  प्रिंसिपल   initiator  of the surrealist  गति  , described Kahlo 's  आर्ट  as  a  `` ribbon around a bomb  ''  .
kahlo   था  a  volatile   विवाह  with the  प्रसिद्ध   मैक्सिकन  artist Diego  रिवेरा   .
She  suffered  lifelong  स्वास्थ्य  problems  .
Many of her  स्वास्थ्य  problems  यहूद  the  परिणाम  of  a  traffic accident  वो  survived as  a  teenager .
Recovering from  उसके   चोटों   पृथक  her from other people and  इस   अलगाव   बहकावे  her works ,  अनेक   of   जिससे   हैं  self-portraits  of  one sort  or   another   .
Kahlo suggested  ,  `` I paint myself because I am so  प्रायः  alone  और   क्युकी  I  am  the  विषय  I know  बेहतरीन  .  ''
She also stated , `` I was born  a   कुतिया  .
I  थी  born a  चित्रकार   .  ''
300px
Theresienwiese on  the  day before Oktoberfest 2006
oktoberfest  is a 16-day  पर्व  celebrating  बियर  held annually  in   म्यूनिख  ,  बायर्न   ,   जर्मनी   ,   कार्यशील   इससे  late September  to  the first  वीकेंड  in  अक्तूबर  .
it  is one  of  the most famous events in Germany  और   is   the   संसार   's  largest  मेला  ,  साथ   अधिक   than  6 million people  इससे  around the  संसार  attending  the  event every  साल  .
to  the locals  ,   it  is not  पुकारा  Oktoberfest , but `` die  wiesn  '' , after the colloquial name of  the  fairgrounds themselves .
The  oktoberfest  is an important part of Bavarian  संस्कृति  ,  having  been  आयोजित  since  1810   .
Other cities across  the   संसार  also hold Oktoberfest  जश्न  , modeled after the original Munich  इवेंट  .
The  म्यूनिख  Oktoberfest originally  took  place  दौरान  the  सोलह  days  up  to  ,  and  सहित  ,  the   पहला   संडे  in October .
In 1994 , the schedule  थी  modified  in  response to German reunification so that if  the   पहला  Sunday in  अक्तूबर  falls on  the   1st  or  2nd  , then the  पर्व  would  go  on until  अक्तूबर  3  (  German Unity Day ) .
Thus , the festival is now  17   दिनों   जब   the   पहला   संडे  is October 2 and 18 days when  it   is  October  1  .
in   2010  , the festival lasted until the first Monday  in  October  ,  to mark  the   वर्षगांठ   of  the event  .
the  festival  is   आयोजित   in  an area  नामित  the Theresienwiese ( field , or  मर्ग  ,  of  Therese ) , often called  wiesn  for  छोटी  , located  निकट   म्यूनिख   's  center .
Large quantities of Oktoberfest  बियर   हैं  consumed  ,  with  लगभग  7 million liters served  दौरान   the  16 day  पर्व  in 2007 .
Visitors  may  also enjoy a  चौड़ी   किस्में  of traditional  खाना   ऐसे  as  hendl   (  chicken ) , Schweinebraten ( roast  पोर्क   )  ,  schweinshaxe  ( grilled ham hock ) , Steckerlfisch (  ग्रील्ड   मछली  on a stick ) ,  würstl  ( sausages ) along  साथ  Brezeln  (  Pretzel ) ,  knödel  ( potato or  ब्रैड   पकौड़ी   )   ,   käsespätzle   (   चीज   नूडल्स   )  , Reiberdatschi (  आलू  pancakes  )  ,  sauerkraut  or Rotkohl/Blaukraut (  रेड   गोभी   )   साथ   साथ   ऐसे   bar  delicacies as  obatzda  (  a  spiced  cheese-butter  spread ) and Weisswurst (  a   श्वेत  sausage ) .
A  platter  with  चीज   और  garnishes
Wheels of  gouda
Cheese  is   a   जेनेरिक  term  लिये  a diverse group  of  milk-based food products  .
चीज  is  उत्पादित  in wide-ranging  जायका  ,  बनावट   ,  and forms .
चीज  consists of proteins  और  fat from milk  ,   प्रायः   the  milk of cows  ,  buffalo , goats  ,   or  sheep .
it  is  उत्पादित  by coagulation of the milk protein casein  .
Typically , the  मिल्क  is  acidified   और  addition of the  एंजाइम  rennet  कल्याणकारी  coagulation .
The solids are  अलग  and pressed into  फाइनल   रूप  .
Some cheeses  have  molds on  the   rind   or  throughout .
Most cheeses melt at  कुकिंग  temperature .
सैंकड़ों  of types of cheese  इससे   विभिन्न   देशों  are produced .
Their  शैलियाँ  ,  बनावट  and flavors  निर्भर  on the  उत्पत्ति  of  the  milk ( including the  एनिमल   's   आहार   )  , whether  वे   have   महरूम  pasteurized  ,   the  butterfat content  ,   the   जीवाणु  and  मोल्ड   ,  the processing ,  और  aging .
Herbs , spices , or wood smoke may be  प्रयुक्त  as  flavoring  agents .
the   पीला  to red  रंग  of  अनेक  cheeses ,  ऐसे  as  रेड  Leicester , is normally formed from adding  annatto   .
For  a  few cheeses , the milk is curdled  by  adding acids  ऐसे   as   सिरका   or   नीबू  juice  .
सबसे   cheeses  are acidified to a lesser degree by bacteria ,  जिससे   फेरे  milk  sugars   into   लैक्टिक   एसिड  , then the addition of rennet  completes   the  curdling .
Vegetarian alternatives  to   rennet   हैं  available ;  सबसे   हैं  produced  by  fermentation  of   the   कवक   mucor   miehei  , but  अन्य  have been extracted from  विभिन्न  species  of   the   cynara  thistle  परिवार   .
Cheese  is   valued   लिये   इसके  portability , long  जीवन  ,  और  high content of  मोटे   ,  protein  ,   कैल्सियम  , and  फॉस्फोरस   .
Cheese is  अधिक  compact  और  has a  longer   शेल्फ   जीवन   than  milk  ,  although how  long   a   चीज  will keep  may  depend  on   the  type of cheese  ;  labels on packets of cheese often claim  कि   a  cheese should be consumed within three to five  दिनों   of  opening .
generally  speaking , hard cheeses last  longer  than soft  cheeses  , such as  brie   or  goat  's   मिल्क  cheese  .
cheesemakers  near  a  dairy region may benefit from  fresher   ,   lower-priced   मिल्क   ,  and lower  शिपिंग  costs  .
the  long  भंडार   जीवन   of  some  चीज  , especially  if  it is  encased  in a protective  rind   ,   allows   selling   जब   बाज़ार  are  अनुकूल  .
Additional ingredients may  be  added to some cheeses  ,  such as black peppers , garlic , chives  or  cranberries .
A specialist  विक्रेता  of  चीज  is  sometimes   ज्ञात   as   a  cheesemonger .
To become  an   विशेषज्ञ  in  इस  field ,  जैसे   वाइन   or   कुकिंग  ,  requires   कुछ  formal education  और  years  of  tasting  और  hands-on experience .
This position  is   typically  responsible for all aspects  of  the cheese  inventory  ; selecting the  चीज   मेनू   ,  purchasing  ,  receiving ,  भंडार  , and ripening  .
Legal citation  सिग्नल  are a  नियत  of brief  abbreviated  phrases  or  words  प्रयुक्त   to   clarify  the authority or  significance   of  a legal  citation   as  it  relates   to   a  proposition  .
Signals  सहायता  a  रीडर  quickly discern meaning or usefulness of  a  particular  सन्दर्भ  when the  सन्दर्भ   itself  does not  provide   पर्याप्त   सूचना  .
Most  citation   सिग्नल  are placed in  सामने  of  the  citation to which they apply .
For  उदाहरण   ,  in the paragraph When  लिखने  a  विधिक   तर्क   ,   it  is important to  refer   to  primary sources  .
To assist  पाठक  in  locating  these sources , it is desirable to  उपयोग  a standardized citation format .
See generally Harvard Law Review Association , The  bluebook  : A Uniform System  of  Citation  (  18th ed . 2005 )  .
Note  ,   however  , that some  न्यायालयों   may  require  कोई   विधिक  papers  कि   हैं  submitted to them  to  conform to a  अलग   citation  format  .
the signal  is  the phrase ``  देखिए   generally   ,  '' which indicates  कि  the  citation  `` The  bluebook  :  a  Uniform System  of   citation   (  18th ed  .  2005  )   ''   provides  general background information on the topic .
Neil Alden Armstrong ( August  5  , 1930  –  August 25 , 2012 ) was  an  American  astronaut  and the first person to  चलना  on the  चंद्रमा  .
he   थी  also  an  aerospace engineer ,  नवल  aviator ,  परीक्षण  pilot  ,  and university professor  .
Before  बनने  an astronaut  ,  Armstrong was an  अधिकारी  in the U.S.  नेवी  and served  in  the  कोरियाई   युद्ध   .
After the war , he earned his  स्नातक  's degree at  purdue   विश्वविद्यालयों   और   परोसा  as a test  पायलट  at  the   नेशनल   सलाहकार  Committee for  aeronautics  High-Speed Flight Station ,  अभी  known as the Dryden  उड़ान  Research  बीच  ,  जहाँ  he logged over 900 flights .
He  बाद  completed graduate studies at the  विश्वविद्यालयों   of   दक्षिणी  California  .
a  participant in  the  U.S.  एयर  Force  's   man   in  Space  soonest  and  x-20  Dyna-Soar human  spaceflight  programs  ,  Armstrong  joined  the NASA  astronaut  Corps in  1962   .
He  बना  his first space flight ,  as  command  पायलट   of  Gemini  8  ,  in   1966  ,  बनने   नासा  's first  civilian   astronaut   to  fly  in   स्पेस  .
On  इस   मिशन   ,  he  performed  the  पहला   डॉकिंग  of two  spacecraft  , with pilot David Scott .
Armstrong  's  second and  पिछला   spaceflight   थी  as mission  कमांडर  of  the   अपोलो   11  moon  लैंडिंग  ,  in  July  1969   .
On  इस  mission  ,  Armstrong  और   बज़  Aldrin  descended   to   the   चंद्र   सतह   और   खर्च   दो   और  a  हाफ  hours exploring , while Michael Collins  remained  in lunar orbit in the  कमांड  Module  .
Along  साथ   कॉलिन्स   और  Aldrin  ,  Armstrong  थी   awarded   the  Presidential  पदक   of  Freedom by  अध्यक्ष   रिचर्ड  Nixon  ;  in  1978  , President  jimmy   कार्टर  presented  आर्मस्ट्रांग   the   congressional  Space  पदक  of Honor in 1978  ;  he  और   उसके  former crewmates received the Congressional  सुनहरा  Medal  in  2009  .
आर्मस्ट्रांग  died  in  Cincinnati ,  ओहियो   ,   on   अगस्त   25   ,   2012  ,  at  the  आयु  of 82  ,   बाद  complications from coronary artery  बायपास  surgery .
सचिवालय  ( March 30  ,  1970  –  October 4 , 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse that  in  1973  became  the first U.S .  ट्रिपल   क्राउन   चैंपियन  in 25 years  .
he  set  रेस  records in  सब   तीन  events  in   the   श्रेणी   —   the  Kentucky Derby  (  1:59.4  )  , the Preakness  stakes  ( 1:53 ) , and  the  Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 )  —   रिकॉर्ड  that still  स्टैंड   आज  .
He is  माना  to be  एक  of  the   महानतम   thoroughbreds  of all time .
in   1999  ,  ईएसपीएन  ranked  सचिवालय  the  35th  best athlete  of  the  20th  century  ,   the   उच्चतम  ranking  racehorse  on  the   सूची  URL_http .
he   क्रमित   दूसरी   पीछे  Man  o  ' War in The  blood-horse  's List  of   the   शीर्ष   100  U.S.  racehorses  of  the  20th  सदी  .
सचिवालय  was  sired   by   बिंदास   शासक  out  of   somethingroyal   ,   by  Princequillo  .
He  थी  foaled at The  मर्ग   in  Caroline  काउंटी   ,  Virginia .
जैसे  his famous  पूर्ववर्ती   man   o  ' War  ,  Secretariat was  a  large chestnut  टट्टू  and was given the same nickname  ,   ``  Big  रेड  . ''
Secretariat  's  grandsire ,  nasrullah  , is  भी   the   great-great-grandsire   of  1977 Triple  क्राउन  winner  सिएटल  Slew .
Owned by Penny Chenery  ,  he  थी  trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian jockey Ron Turcotte , along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano  (  first two  दौड़  ) ,  और  veteran Eddie Maple  (  last race )  .
He raced in Chenery  's  Meadow  stable  's  ब्लू  and white checkered  रंगों  and his groom was  एडी  Sweat .
Secretariat stood  लगभग  tall , and weighed  ,  with a  75-inch   girth  , in his racing prime  .
मैड्रिड  (  ,  )  is  the  पूंजी   और   largest   नगर  of Spain .
The population  of  the  नगर  is  roughly  3.3  लाख  and the  संपूर्ण   जनसांख्यिकी  of the  मैड्रिड   महानगर  area is calculated to be  around   6.5   लाख   .
It  is  the third-largest city  in   the  European Union  ,  after  लंदन   और  Berlin , and its metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल   is  the third-largest in  the  European Union after London  और  Paris  .
The city spans a total  of   .
The city is located  on  the  manzanares  river in the centre of both the country and  the   जातियाँ  of Madrid ( which comprises the city of  मैड्रिड  , its conurbation  और  extended suburbs  और   गांवों   )  ;  इस   जातियाँ  is bordered  by  the  autonomous   समुदायों  of Castile  और   león   और  Castile-La  मांचा  .
As  the   पूंजी  city of  स्पेन   ,  seat  of  government  ,   और   निवास  of the Spanish  monarch  , Madrid  is  also  the  political ,  आर्थिक   और   सांस्कृतिक  centre of Spain .
the  current  महापौर  is Ana Botella from  the   लोगों   's  Party  (  PP )  .
The Madrid  शहरी   agglomeration  has the third-largest GDP in the  यूरोपीय   संघ  and its influences in politics ,  शिक्षा  , entertainment , environment , media  ,  fashion ,  विज्ञान   ,   संस्कृति  ,  और  the arts all  योगदान  to  इसके   औकात  as  एक  of the  संसार  's  प्रमुख   वैश्विक  cities  .
due  to  इसके   आर्थिक  output  ,  high standard  of   जीना  , and market  आकार  , Madrid  is  considered the major  वित्तीय  centre of  दक्षिणी  Europe and  the  Iberian Peninsula ;  it   होस्ट  the  सिर  offices of the vast  बहुमत  of the major  स्पेनी   कंपनियाँ   ,   ऐसे  as  telefónica  , Iberia or  repsol   .
Madrid  is  the most  touristic   नगर  of Spain  ,   the  fourth-most touristic  of  the continent ,  और  the seventh most visited city in  the  world  according   to  Forbes .
Is  the   10th  most  livable   नगर   in   the  world according to Monocle  पत्रिका   ,  in its 2010  अनुक्रमणिका  .
मैड्रिड  also ranks among the 12 greenest European cities in  2010.  <  संदर्भ   name=   ''  http :  //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html   ''  >  मैड्रिड   is  currently a  प्रत्याशी  City for the  2020   गर्मियाँ   ओलंपिक  .
मैड्रिड  houses  the  headquarters of the  संसार  Tourism Organization  (  WTO ) , belonging  to   the  United  राष्ट्र  Organization  (  UN )  ,   the   segib  , the Organization  of  Ibero-American States ( OEI )  ,   और  the Public  ब्याज   oversight   फलक  ( PIOB ) .
It also  होस्ट   प्रमुख   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   संस्थानों   regulators  of  स्पेनी   :  the Standing Committee of the Association of Spanish Language  अकादमियों   ,  headquarters  of  the  royal  Spanish Academy (  rae  ) , the  cervantes   संस्थान   और  the Foundation of Urgent Spanish ( Fundéu )  .
Madrid organizes fairs  as  FITUR , ARCO , SIMO TCI and the  cibeles  Madrid  फ़ैशन  Week .
While Madrid possesses  a  modern  अवसंरचना  , it  रै  preserved the  dekh  and feel of many  of   इसके   ऐतिहासिक  neighbourhoods and  गलियों   .
Its landmarks  शामिल  the  royal   राजमहल  of Madrid  ;   the  Teatro Real  (   royal   थिएटर  ) with its  लौटी  1850  ओपेरा  House ;  the   buen  Retiro  पार्क  , founded  in  1631  ;  the 19th-century  नेशनल  Library building ( founded in 1712 ) containing some  of  Spain  's   ऐतिहासिक  archives  ;  a  विशाल  number of National museums , and the Golden Triangle  of  Art , located along  the  Paseo del Prado  और   comprising  three  आर्ट  museums  :  Prado  संग्रहालय  , the  museo  Nacional  centro  de  arte  Reina Sofía , a  संग्रहालय  of  आधुनिक  art  ,   और  the Thyssen-Bornemisza  संग्रहालय  , which completes  the   त्रुटियां  of  the   अन्य  two  संग्रहालय   .
Cibeles Palace and  फव्वारा  have become the  स्मारक  symbol of  the  city .
The  पाथ  of the Via  appia   और  of  the   via  Appia Traiana  .
Remains  of  the Appian Way  in   रोम  , near Quarto  miglio
Near Rome .
The Appian Way  (  Latin  और   इतालवी  : Via Appia )  थी  one of the earliest and strategically most important Roman roads of  the   प्राचीन  republic .
It connected  रोम  to  brindisi  ,  apulia  , in southeast  इटली  .
Its importance  is   indicated  by its common  नाम  ,  अंकित  by  statius  :
appia  teritur regina longarum viarum
`` the  appian   रास्ता  is the  महारानी  of the long roads  ''
the   सड़क   is   नामित  after Appius Claudius  caecus  ,  the   रोमन  censor  जो  began and  समाप्त  the first section as  a  military road to the south in 312 BC during  the   samnite   युद्धों  .
the   draupner   वेव  , a single giant wave measured on  नई   साल  's  दिन  1995  ,   आखिरकार  confirmed the  अस्तित्व   of  freak waves , which  था  previously been considered  near-mythical
दुष्ट   लहरें  ( also known  as  freak waves ,  दानव   लहरें   ,  killer waves , extreme waves , and abnormal  लहरें   )   हैं  relatively large  और   spontaneous  ocean surface waves that occur  दूर  out at sea ,  और  are  a  threat even to  विशाल   जहाजों   और  ocean liners  .
In oceanography ,  वे  are more precisely  पारिभाषित   as  waves  जिनकी   ऊँचाई   is   अधिक   than  twice the  significant  wave height ( SWH  )  ,  जिससे  is itself  पारिभाषित   as   the   औसत  of  the  largest  तीसरा   of   लहरें  in a wave record .
इसलिए  rogue waves are  नहीं   necessarily  the biggest waves found at  समुद्र   ;   वे   हैं   ,   बल्कि   ,  surprisingly  विशाल  waves  लिये   a  given  समुद्र  state .
Rogue  लहरें   seem  not  to  have  a   सिंगल  distinct  कारण  , but  occur  where physical factors such as high  हवाएँ   और  strong currents cause  लहरें   to  merge to create a single exceptionally large  वेव  .
Electress  sophia   of  Hanover  (  1630–1714 )
the  line of  उत्तराधिकार   to   the   अंग्रेजों  throne is the ordered sequence  of  all  those  people  योग्य   to  succeed  to  the  सिंहासन  of the United Kingdom and  the  other  15   राष्ट्रमंडल   realms  .
the  Act of Settlement  1701  bestowed  उत्तराधिकार  on  the  Electress  sophia   of  Hanover and  उसके  descendants while excluding Roman Catholics .
The British government  करता   नहीं   प्रकाशित  an  आधिकारिक  list  of   सब   those  in  लकीर  to  सफल  , but the  कार्य  of genealogical  लेखक  and amateur researchers suggests  कि   वहीँ  are several thousand  लोगों   potentially  in  लकीर  .
At  a  summit  in  Perth  ,   पश्चिमी   ऑस्ट्रेलिया   in  2011 , the heads of government  of   सब  16 Commonwealth realms agreed  to  take steps  to  adopt  निरपेक्ष  primogeniture ,  समाप्त  the  exclusion  of people married  to   रोमन   catholics  , and make  अन्य  changes  in  the  उत्तराधिकार  rules .
The line  of  succession is also  प्रयुक्त  to select the  counsellors  of  राज्य   (  and a regent if the  need  arises )  अंतर्गत   the  provisions  of  the  रीजेंसी  Act 1937 .
लिये  earlier  संस्करण  of the line of succession  ,  see  इतिहास   of   the  British line of succession  .
Edward  मोंटगोमरी   क्लिफ्ट   (   अक्तूबर  17 , 1920July 23  ,   1966  )  थी  an American  फिल्मी  and  स्टेज  actor The New York Times’  obituary  noted his portrayal of ``  मूडी  , sensitive  यंग  men '' .
He often  निभाई  outsiders and `` victim-heroes ''  ;   उदाहरण  include the social  climber  in George Stevens 's A Place  in   the   सूर्य  ,  the  anguished Catholic  पुजारी   in  Hitchcock  's   i  Confess ,  the  doomed regular soldier Robert  E.   ली  Prewitt  in   फ्रेड   zinnemann  's From Here  to   शाश्वत  ,  और   the  Jewish GI bullied by  antisemites  in Edward  dmytryk  's  the  Young Lions  .
बाद   ,   बाद   a   disfiguring  car crash in  1956  , and alcohol and  नुस्खा  drug abuse  ,   he  became  erratic  .
nevertheless  important  भूमिकाएँ   यहूद   स्टिल  his , including  ``   the   लापरवाह  ,  alcoholic  ,  mother-fixated  rodeo  यजमान   ''  in John  हस्टन   's  The Misfits ,  the   शीर्षक   भूमिका  in Huston  's  , and the concentration  शिविर  victim  in  Stanley  क्रेमर  's  निर्णय  at Nuremberg . ''
Clift  प्राप्त   चार  Academy Award nominations during his career  ,  three  लिये   बेहतरीन   कर्ता   और   एक   लिये  Best  supporting   कर्ता  .
the  War on  आतंक  (  भी   ज्ञात   as   the  Global War  on  Terrorism  )   is   a  term  commonly   लागू  to  an  international  सैन्य  campaign which started as a result  of  the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on  the  United  राज्य  .
This resulted in  an   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   सैन्य  campaign  to  eliminate al-Qaeda  और  other militant organizations  .
The United Kingdom and many other NATO and non-NATO nations participate in the conflict .
The phrase  'war  on  आतंक  ' was  पहला   प्रयुक्त   by  US President George  W.  Bush on 20 September 2001  .
the   बुश  administration and the Western  मीडिया   have  since used  the  term to  signify   a   वैश्विक  military , political  ,  lawful  ,   और   conceptual  struggle—targeting  दोनो   संगठन  designated as terrorist  और  regimes accused of supporting them  .
it  was  typically  used with a  particular  focus on militant  islamists  , al-Qaeda ,  और   अन्य  jihadi  समूह  .
Although the term is  नहीं  officially used  by  the administration of US  अध्यक्ष  Barack  ओबामा   (  which instead uses  the  term  विदेशी   आकस्मिकता   आपरेशन  )  ,   it   is  still commonly used by politicians ,  in   the  media and  by   कुछ   पहलुओं  of  सरकारी  officially , such  as  the United States ' Global  युद्ध  on Terrorism Service Medal .
German  battleship  Schleswig-Holstein , Westerplatte , September 1  ,  1939
Destroyer USS Shaw exploding after her forward magazine  थी   detonated  during  the  Attack  on  Pearl  हार्बर
The main causes of  संसार  War II were  nationalistic   मुद्दे   ,   अनसुलझे  issues , and resentments resulting  इससे  World War I  और  the interwar period  in   यूरोपीय  , in addition to the  प्रभाव   of  the Great  अवसाद   in   the   1930s   .
The culmination  of   कार्यक्रम  that led to the  outbreak   of   युद्ध  are generally understood to be the  1939  invasion of Poland  by  Germany  और   सोवियत   रूस  and the  1937  invasion of  the  Republic  of  China  by  the Empire of  जापानी   .
These military aggressions were the  परिणाम  of  निर्णय   बना   by   the  authoritarian ruling  नाजी  elite  in   जर्मनी   और  by the leadership of  the   kwantung   फौज  in  जापानी  .
संसार  War II  प्रारंभ   बाद   ये   आक्रामक  actions were  मिले   साथ  an  आधिकारिक  declaration of war and/or armed  प्रतिरोध   .
The  following   is   a  list  of   देवताओं  and other divine and semi-divine figures  इससे  Greek mythology  .
The  सूची  does not  शामिल  creatures ;  लिये  these ,  देखिए  List of Greek  पौराणिक   जीव  .
The  मित्सुबिशी  Galant is an automobile  manufactured   by  Mitsubishi Motors between 1969  और  2012  .
the   नाम  was derived  इससे  the French word  galant  , meaning ``  chivalrous  '' .
There have been nine  पृथक   पीढियां  , and cumulative sales  अभी  exceed five million .
It  began  as  a   कॉम्पैक्ट   सेडान  ,  लकिन  over  the  course of its  जीवन   रै   विकसित   into   a   larger   mid-size   car  .
आरंभिक  production was  तभी   आधारित  in Japan , but since 1994  the  American  मार्केट   रै  been  परोसा   by   वाहनों  assembled at  the  former  diamond-star  Motors ( DSM  )  facility  in  Normal , Illinois .
Blood  दबाव  ( BP ) , sometimes referred to as arterial  रक्त   दबाव   ,  is  the   दबाव  exerted  by  circulating  रक्त  upon the walls of blood vessels  ,  and is  एक  of the principal  vital  signs  .
जब  used  बगैर  further specification  ,  `` blood pressure '' usually  refers  to the arterial  दबाव  of the  प्रणालीगत  circulation .
During each heartbeat ,  रक्त  pressure varies  between  a maximum  (   systolic  ) and a minimum  (   diastolic  )  दबाव  .
The blood  दबाव  in  the   परिसंचरण   is   प्रधानतया  due to the  pumping  action of the  दिल   .
Differences in mean blood pressure are  जिम्मेदार   लिये  blood  प्रवाह  from  एक  location  to  another  in   the   परिसंचरण   .
The  रेट  of  औसत   रक्त  flow  depends  on the  प्रतिरोध   to   प्रवाह  presented  by  the  रक्त  vessels .
औसत  blood  दबाव   decreases  as  the   circulating   रक्त  moves  दूर   इससे   the  heart through arteries and capillaries due to viscous  नुकसान  of energy  .
Mean blood  दबाव  drops over the whole circulation  ,  although  सबसे  of  the  fall occurs  साथ   the   छोटी  arteries and arterioles  .
Gravity  affects  blood pressure via hydrostatic forces ( e.g.  ,  during  खड़ा  )  और  valves  in   रगों  ,  श्वास  , and pumping from contraction of skeletal muscles also  influence  blood pressure  in   रगों  .
रक्त  pressure without  further   specification   प्रायः  refers to the systemic  arterial   दबाव  measured at  a  person  's   अपर  arm and  is  a  माप  of the pressure in the  brachial  artery  ,  the major  धमनी  in the  अपर  arm .
a  person’s blood pressure  is  usually  expressed   in  terms of the systolic pressure over diastolic pressure  और  is  measured  in  millimetres  of mercury  (  mmHg )  ,  for example 120/80 .
A  वीटो  – Latin for  ``  I forbid  ''   –   is  the  शक्ति  (  प्रयुक्त  by  an  officer of  the   राज्य   ,  for example ) to  unilaterally   रोकें  an  आधिकारिक   कार्रवाई  , especially  the  enactment of legislation .
A  वीटो   can  be absolute , as  लिये  instance in the  संयुक्त   राष्ट्र   सुरक्षा  Council ,  जिनकी   स्थाई   सदस्यों   (  China  ,   फ़्रांस  , Russia , United Kingdom  ,   संयुक्त   राज्य   of   अमेरिका   )  can block  कोई  resolution  .
or   it   can  be limited , as  in  the legislative process of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  , where a  two-thirds  vote  in  both the House and Senate may override  a  Presidential veto  of  legislation .
a  veto  तभी  gives power to stop changes , not to adopt  उन्हें  ( except for the rare  ``  amendatory veto '' )  .
यूँ  a veto allows its holder to  protect  the  औकात  quo .
the  concept of a veto body  originated  with  the  Roman consuls and  tribunes  .
either  of the  दो   consuls   पकड़कर   दफ्तर  in a given year could  ब्लाक   a  military or civil decision by  the  other  ;   कोई  tribune  था   the  power to unilaterally  ब्लाक  legislation passed  by  the  रोमन   सीनेट   .
Sulfur  डाइऑक्साइड  ( also  गंधक   डाइऑक्साइड  ) is the  रासायनिक  compound with the  सूत्र  .
It  is   a  toxic gas with  a   pungent  , irritating  महकते  , that is released  by   ज्वालामुखी  and  in  various industrial processes .
Since  कोयले  and petroleum often contain sulfur compounds , their  दहन   generates   गंधक  dioxide  जबतक  the sulfur  यौगिकों  are removed before burning the fuel .
further  oxidation of SO2 , usually in the  उपस्थिति  of a catalyst  ऐसे  as NO2 ,  फ़ॉर्म  H2SO4  ,  and  यूँ   एसिड  rain  .
Sulfur dioxide emissions are  भी   a   precursor  to particulates in the  माहौल  .
Both of these  impacts  are  कारण   लिये  concern over the  पर्यावरणीय  impact of  ये   fuels  .
Myasthenia gravis  (  from Greek μύς  ``  muscle '' , `` weakness '' , and `` serious '' ; abbreviated  mg  ) is an autoimmune neuromuscular disease leading  to   fluctuating  muscle  कमज़ोरी  and  fatigability  .
It is  an  autoimmune disorder , in which  कमज़ोरी   is   caused  by circulating antibodies that  ब्लाक  acetylcholine  receptors   at  the postsynaptic neuromuscular  जंक्शन  , inhibiting  the   excitatory   प्रभाव  of the  neurotransmitter   acetylcholine   on  nicotinic  receptors   throughout  neuromuscular  junctions   .
myasthenia  is treated  medically  with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors  or   immunosuppressants   ,  and , in selected cases , thymectomy  .
The  बीमारी   incidence  is  3–30   मामले  per  लाख   प्रति  year  और  rising  as  a result  of  increased awareness .
mg  must be distinguished from congenital myasthenic  syndromes  that  can  present similar symptoms but offer no  जवाब  to  immunosuppressive  treatments  .
Reflective twisted  nematic  liquid  क्रिस्टल  display  .
Polarizing filter film  साथ   a  vertical  अक्ष  to polarize light  as  it enters .
कांच  substrate with ITO  electrodes  .
the   आकार   of  these electrodes  होगा  determine the shapes that  होगा   appear  when  the  LCD  is  turned ON .
Vertical  ridges   etched   on   the   सतह  are smooth .
Twisted  nematic  liquid crystal .
Glass substrate with  आम  electrode film ( ITO )  साथ   आड़ा   ridges   to  line  up   साथ  the horizontal filter  .
polarizing  filter  फिल्मी   साथ  a horizontal axis  to  block/pass  लाइट   .
Reflective surface to send  लाइट  back to viewer  .
(  in  a backlit LCD  ,   इस  layer is  replaced   साथ  a  लाइट   सोर्स   .  )
A liquid-crystal display ( LCD )  is   a  flat panel  प्रदर्शक   ,   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   विज़ुअल  display , or video display that  उपयोग   the  light  modulating  properties of liquid crystals .
Liquid crystals do not  emit  light  सीधे   .
LCDs  हैं  available  to  display  मनमानी   बिंब  ( as in a  general-purpose   कंप्यूटर  display )  or   फिक्स्ड  images  जिससे   can  be displayed  or   छुपा  ,  ऐसे  as preset  शब्द   ,   अंक   ,   और  7-segment displays as in  a  digital  क्लॉक  .
They use the same basic  प्रौद्योगिकी   ,  except that arbitrary images are  बना   up  of a  विशाल  number of  छोटी   पिक्सेल  , while other displays  have   larger  elements .
lcds  are used in  a  wide range  of   अनुप्रयोग   सहित  computer monitors  ,  televisions  ,   यंत्र   panels  , aircraft  कॉकपिट  displays , and signage .
They are common  in   उपभोक्ता  devices such  as   वीडियो  players  ,   गेमिंग  devices ,  घड़ियाँ  , watches  ,  calculators  ,  and  telephones  ,  और  have replaced cathode ray tube  (  CRT )  प्रदर्शक  in most applications  .
They are  उपलब्धियाँ   in   a  wider range of  स्क्रीन   आकार  than  crt   और  plasma displays  ,   और  since  वे  do not  उपयोग  phosphors , they do not suffer image  burn-in  .
lcds   हैं  ,  however  , susceptible  to   चित्र  persistence .
the   एलसीडी   स्क्रीन  is  अधिक  energy efficient and can be disposed  of  more  सकुशल  than  a  CRT  .
Its  कम   विद्युत  power consumption enables it  to  be used in battery -powered  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  equipment .
It is an  electronically  modulated  ऑप्टिकल  device made up of  कोई   क्रमांक  of segments  भर   साथ   द्रव  crystals and arrayed  in   सामने  of a light source ( backlight  )   or  reflector to  उपज  images in color  or  monochrome .
Liquid  crystals  were first discovered in 1888 .
by  2008  ,  worldwide  बिक्री  of  टेलीविज़न  with  एलसीडी   screens   exceeded   सालाना   बिक्री  of CRT units ; the CRT became obsolete for  सबसे   उद्देश्य  .
the  Borgata  होटल  Casino and  स्पा  is a luxury  होटल  , casino  ,  and spa in Atlantic  नगर   ,  New Jersey , United States .
it  is owned by Marina District Development  ,  a  संयुक्त  venture  between   boyd   गेमिंग  and  a   divesture  trust established by  mgm   रिसॉर्ट  International  .
the  $ 1.1  अरब   कसीनो  hotel features 2,002 rooms  और  is the largest hotel  in   नई   जर्सी   .
The Borgata  खोली   in  July 2003  as  a  लास  Vegas-style  megaresort  and  is  the  top-grossing  casino in Atlantic City .
A  बोतल  of high  potency  B-complex vitamin  संपूरक  pills .
a  vitamin  (  or  )   is  an organic  यौगिक   जरूरी  by  an   सजीव  as  a  vital nutrient in limited  amounts  .
an  organic chemical compound (  or   सम्बन्धित   नियत  of compounds )  is   पुकारा   a  vitamin  जब   it   can  not be synthesized in sufficient  quantities   by  an organism  ,   और  must  be   प्राप्त  from the  आहार   .
यूँ  ,  the   पद  is conditional  दोनो  on  the   हालातों  and on the particular organism .
For example  ,  ascorbic acid (  विटामिन   c  ) is a  विटामिन   लिये   इंसानो  ,  लकिन   नहीं  for most  अन्य   पशु  ,  और  biotin and vitamin D are required  in   the  human  आहार  only in  निश्चित  circumstances .
by  convention ,  the   पद   विटामिन   शामिल  neither other essential nutrients  ,   ऐसे  as  dietary  minerals  ,   अनिवार्य  fatty acids  ,   or  essential amino  acids   (   जिससे  are  needed  in larger  amounts  than vitamins )  nor  the large number of  अन्य  nutrients that promote  स्वास्थ्य   लकिन  are  वरना   जरूरी   कम  often .
तेरह  vitamins  हैं   universally  recognized  at  present  .
विटामिन   हैं   वर्गीकृत  by their biological and chemical  कार्यकलाप  , not their  ढांचा   .
Thus ,  प्रत्येक  ``  विटामिन  '' refers to  a  number of vitamer  यौगिकों  that  सब  show  the   biological  activity associated with a  particular   विटामिन  .
Such  a  set of chemicals  is  grouped under an alphabetized vitamin `` generic  वर्णनकर्ता  ''  शीर्षक   ,  such as `` vitamin  a   ``  ,  जिससे   शामिल   the  compounds retinal , retinol ,  और  four known carotenoids .
vitamers  by  परिभाषा   हैं  convertible to the  क्रियाशील  form  of   the   विटामिन  in the  देह  ,  और   हैं   sometimes   inter-convertible  to one another , as well .
विटामिन  have  विविध  biochemical  कृत्यों   .
Some  have  hormone-like functions as  regulators   of   खनिज  metabolism  (  such as vitamin D  )  ,  or  regulators of  कोशिका   और   ऊतक   विकास  and  differentiation   (   ऐसे  as some forms  of   विटामिन  A ) .
अन्य  function as antioxidants  (  e.g. , vitamin E  और  sometimes vitamin  c  )  .
the  largest  क्रमांक   of  vitamins ( such  as  B complex vitamins  )   फलन   as  precursors for enzyme cofactors ,  कि  help  एंजाइमों  in  उनके  work as  catalysts  in  चयापचय   .
In this  भूमिका   ,   विटामिन  may be tightly bound  to   एंजाइमों   as   भाग   of   prosthetic   समूह  :  लिये   उदाहरण  , biotin  is  part  of  enzymes  शामिल  in making  वसीय   acids  .
विटामिन  may also be  कम  tightly bound  to  enzyme  catalysts  as  coenzymes  ,  detachable  molecules that  फलन  to  carry   रासायनिक  groups or  electrons  between molecules  .
लिये  example , folic  एसिड   may  carry methyl ,  formyl  ,  और  methylene  समूह  in  the  cell .
हालांकि   ये   भूमिकाएँ  in assisting  enzyme-substrate  reactions  हैं   विटामिन   '   best-known  function , the other vitamin functions  हैं   बराबर   महत्वपूर्ण  .
Until  the  mid-1930s  ,   जब   the  first commercial yeast-extract vitamin B complex and  semi-synthetic   विटामिन  C supplement tablets  यहूद   बेची   ,   विटामिन  were obtained solely  through  food  सेवन  ,  और  changes in diet  (  which  ,   लिये   उदाहरण  , could  occur  during  a  particular growing season  )  usually  greatly  altered  the  types and  amounts   of  vitamins ingested  .
However ,  विटामिन  have  महरूम  produced  as   कमोडिटी  chemicals  और  made  widely   उपलब्धियाँ  as  inexpensive  semisynthetic and  synthetic-source   multivitamin  dietary  और  food  पूरक  and additives  ,  since  the  middle of  the   20th  century  .
संसार  Muslim population by percentage  (  Pew Research Center , 2009  )
संसार  Muslim  जनसांख्यिकी  in millions
islam  is the  संसार   's  second  largest  religion after Christianity .
according  to a 2010 study  ,   islam   रै  1.62 billion  adherents  ,  बनाना   up  over 23 % of the  संसार   जनसांख्यिकी  .
Islam is  the   predominant  religion in the Middle East  ,   in  Sahel , in the  सींग   of   अफ़्रीकी  and northern  अफ़्रीकी   ,  and in some parts  of   एशिया  .
Large communities of  मुसलमान   हैं   भी  found in China , the  balkans  ,  और   रूस   .
Other parts of the  संसार  host large Muslim immigrant communities  ;  in Western  यूरोपीय   ,  for instance , Islam  is  the  दूसरी  largest religion  बाद  Christianity  ,  where  it  represents 6 % of the  कुल  population .
according   to  the Pew  शोध   बीच  in 2010  वहीँ   यहूद  49 Muslim-majority countries .
around  62 % of the world 's Muslims live  in  South  और  Southeast  एशिया  , with over  1  billion adherents .
the   largest  Muslim  देश   is  Indonesia ,  घर  to  12.7  %  of   the  world  's   मुसलमान  , followed by Pakistan (  11.0   %  )  ,  India  (  10.9  %   )  , and  बांग्लादेश   (  9.2 % ) .
About  20  % of  मुसलमान  live in  अरब  countries .
In  the  Middle East  ,   the  non-Arab countries of Turkey  और  Iran are  the  largest Muslim-majority  देशों  ; in  अफ़्रीकी  , Egypt and  सीरियल   have   the   सबसे  populous  मुस्लिम  communities  .
A study conducted  by  the Pew  शोध   बीच  in 2010 and released January  2011   मिला   कि  there are  1.62  billion Muslims around  the  world  .
The study  मिला   अधिक  Muslims in the United Kingdom than  in   लेबनान  and  अधिक  in China  than   in  Syria .
Rhode Island  (  or ) ,  officially  the  राज्य   of  Rhode Island and  विधाता   बागानों   ,   is   a  state in the  नई  England region  of  the United  राज्य  .
Rhode  द्वीप  is the  smallest   in   क्षेत्रफल  , the  आठवीं   तनिक  populous  ,  but  the  second  सबसे   densely   आबादी  of the 50 US  राज्य   पीछे  New Jersey .
Rhode Island is  bordered  by  कनेक्टिकट  to  the  west and  मैसाचुसेट्स  to the north  और  east  ,  and  it  shares a water boundary with New York  's  Long  द्वीप  to  the   दक्षिणपश्चिम   .
Rhode  द्वीप   थी  the first of  the  13 original colonies to declare independence from  अंग्रेजों  rule  ,  declaring itself independent  on  May  4   ,  1776 ,  दो   महीने   पहले   कोई   अन्य  colony .
The  राज्य  was also the  पिछला  of the thirteen original  colonies   to  ratify the United  राज्य  Constitution  .
rhode  Island 's official nickname  is  `` The Ocean State '' , a reference to the  राज्य   's  geography , since  rhode  Island has several large bays  और   inlets  that amount  to  about 14 %  of   इसके   कुल  area  .
Its land area  is  ,  लकिन   इसके  total area  is  significantly larger  .
Dubai  (  ;  '  , )  is  a  नगर  in the  संयुक्त   अरब  Emirates ,  स्तिथ  within  the  emirate  of  the same  नाम  .
the   अमीर  of Dubai  is  located  on  the southeast  coast  of  the  Persian  गल्फ   on   the   arabian  Peninsula and is one  of  the seven emirates  कि   मेक   up   the  country  .
It has the largest population  in  the UAE ( 2,106,177  )   और  the  second-largest  land  territory   by   क्षेत्रफल   (   4,114   km2  )  बाद  Abu Dhabi  .
Dubai  और  Abu Dhabi ,  the  national  पूंजी   ,   हैं  the  तभी  two emirates  to   have  veto power over  नाजुक   matters  of national importance in the country 's legislature .
The  नगर  of Dubai is  स्तिथ  on the  अमीर   's   उत्तरी   तटरेखा  and heads  up   the  Dubai-Sharjah-Ajman metropolitan area .
Dubai  is  nowadays often  misperceived  as a country  or  city-state and , in  कुछ  cases , the UAE as a whole has been described  as  'Dubai  '   .
the  earliest  जिक्र  of Dubai is in 1095  ad   ,  and  the  earliest  अंकित  settlement  in  the  प्रदेश  dates  इससे   1799  .
The Sheikhdom  of   दुबई  was formally established in 1833  by  Sheikh Maktoum  बिन   butti  Al-Maktoum when he persuaded around 800 members  of  his  जनजाति  of  the   bani  Yas ,  जीना  in  कया   थी  then  the  Second  सऊदी   राज्य  and now part of Saudi Arabia , to  follow   उसे  to  the  Dubai Creek by the Abu Falasa clan of the Bani  yas  .
It remained  अंतर्गत  the tribe 's control when the  संयुक्त   किंगडम  assumed protection of  the  Sheikhdom  in   1892  and  joined  the  nascent   संयुक्त  Arab Emirates  upon  independence  in   1971   as  the country 's  दूसरी   अमीर   .
इसके  strategic  भौगोलिक   स्थान  made  the  town  an   महत्वपूर्ण  trading hub  और   by   the  beginning  of   the   20th  century  ,   दुबई   थी  already  an  important  क्षेत्रीय  port .
Today , Dubai has  उभरा  as  a  cosmopolitan metropolis that  रै   grown  steadily to become a  वैश्विक  city and  a  business and cultural hub  of   the   मध्य  East and  the   पारसी   गल्फ   प्रदेश   .
Although Dubai 's economy was  historically  built on the oil  उद्योग  , the  अमीर  's Western-style model  of   कारोबार  drives  इसके   अर्थव्यवस्था   साथ  the main revenues now coming  इससे  tourism  ,  real  एस्टेट  , and financial services .
Dubai  रै  recently attracted world attention through many  अभिनव  large construction  प्रोजेक्ट   और  sports  कार्यक्रम  .
The city has become  सांकेतिक  for  इसके  skyscrapers  और   high-rise  buildings , such as the world  's  tallest Burj Khalifa  ,   in  addition to ambitious  विकास  projects  सहित  man-made  आइलैंड्स  ,  होटल  , and  कुछ  of the  largest   खरीदारी   मॉल  in  the  region  और  the world .
इस   increased  attention has also highlighted labor  और  human rights  मुद्दे   concerning  the city 's  largely  South  एशियाई  paid  workforce   .
Dubai  's  property market experienced a  प्रमुख   deterioration   in  2008–2009  as   a   परिणाम  of the worldwide economic downturn following the financial  संकट   of  2007-2008 .
however  ,  दुबई   रै  made a steady  और   क्रमिक   रिकवरी  with  सहायता  coming  इससे  neighboring emirates  .
the  handful of  नई   प्रोजेक्ट   कि   हैं  in the pipeline  have  been able  to  help Dubai real  एस्टेट  make a comeback  .
As of 2012 ,  दुबई  is  the   22nd  most expensive city  in   the  world ,  और   the   सबसे  expensive city  in  the  मध्य   ईस्ट  , surpassing Israel 's Tel  aviv  ( 31st  )  .
दुबई  has also  महरूम  rated as  एक  of the best  स्थान   to   सजीव   in   the  Middle East , including  by  US  अमरीकी   वैश्विक  consulting firm Mercer who rated  the  city as the  बेहतरीन   प्लेस   to   सजीव  in  the  Middle East  in  2011  .
the  following is a list  of  colleges  और   विश्वविद्यालयों  in the  u.S.   राज्य  of  इलिनोइस   .
Surface of the Atlantic ocean meeting  the  Earth 's planetary  boundary   परत   और   क्षोभमण्डल   .
Waves on  an  ocean  coast  .
इस  animation  उपयोग  Earth science data from  a   किस्में  of sensors  on  NASA  धरती  observing satellites to  माप  physical  oceanography  parameters  ऐसे  as  समंदर  currents  ,   समंदर  winds , sea surface height  और  sea  सतह  temperature  .
an  ocean (  ;  the  संसार  Ocean of classical  प्राचीनता  ) is a body of  saline  water  कि  composes a large part  of  a  ग्रह   's  hydrosphere .
In  the  context of Earth , it refers to one  or   सब  of the major divisions of  the   ग्रह   's  World Ocean  –   वे  are  ,  in descending order  of  area , the Pacific , Atlantic ,  भारतीय  ,  दक्षिणी  ( Antarctic  )  ,  और   आर्कटिक  Oceans  .
the  word  ``   समुद्र  `` is often  प्रयुक्त  interchangeably with `` ocean  ''   ,   लकिन  strictly speaking  a  sea is  a  body of saline  जल   (   संभवतः  a  प्रभाग  of the  संसार  Ocean ) partly  or  fully  enclosed  by  जमीन  .
Earth  is  the only planet known to have an ocean ( or  कोई   विशाल   amounts   of   खोलें  liquid  जल  ) .
Approximately 72  %  of the  ग्रह  's surface ( ~3.6x108 km2  )  is  covered  by  saline  water that is  customarily   विभाजित  into  अनेक  principal  महासागर   और  smaller  समंदर  ,  साथ  the  समंदर  covering  लगभग  71 % of the  धरती  's surface .
in  terms  of  the  जलमंडल  of the Earth  ,  the  समंदर  contains 97 %  of   the  Earth 's water  .
Oceanographers  have   stated  that  आउट   of   97   %  , only  5  %  of   the   समंदर   as  a  पूरे   on  Earth  रै  been  छान   .
क्युकी   it   is   the   प्रिंसिपल   घटक  of Earth 's hydrosphere ,  the   संसार   समंदर   is  integral  to   सब  known  जीवन  ,  फ़ॉर्म  part of  the  carbon  साईकिल   ,   और  influences climate and weather patterns  .
The  कुल   आवाज़  is approximately 1.3 billion cubic kilometres  (  310  लाख   cu  mi  )   साथ  an  औसत  depth of .
It is the habitat of 230,000 known species  ,  although much  of  the  समंदर  's  गहराइयों  remain unexplored and it is estimated that over two million marine  प्रजाति  exist  .
The  उत्पत्ति   of   धरती  's  महासागर   is  still unknown  ,  but  महासागर  are believed to have formed in the Hadean  काल   और  may have been  the  impetus  लिये  the  emergence  of  जीवन   .
extraterrestrial  oceans  may   be  composed of a wide range of  तत्व   और   यौगिकों  .
The  तभी   पुष्टि  large stable  लाशें   of  extraterrestrial  सतह  liquids are  the  lakes  of   टाइटन   ,   हालांकि  there is evidence  लिये  the existence of  महासागर   elsewhere  in  the  Solar System  .
Early in  उनके  geologic histories ,  मंगल  and  शुक्र   हैं  theorized to have  था   विशाल  water  महासागर   .
the  Mars ocean hypothesis suggests  कि  nearly a  तीसरा  of  the   सतह  of Mars  थी   एकबार  covered  by  water ,  हालांकि   the  water on Mars  is  no longer oceanic , and a runaway  ग्रीनहाउस   प्रभाव  may  have  boiled  दूर   the   वैश्विक  ocean of  शुक्र  .
यौगिकों  such  as  salts  और  ammonia  dissolved  in  जल  lower its freezing point  ,  so that water might  मौजूद  in large quantities  in   extraterrestrial   environments  as brine or convecting  बर्फ   .
Unconfirmed oceans  हैं   speculated  beneath the surface of many  बौना   ग्रह   और   प्राकृतिक   satellites  ;  notably   ,   the  ocean of Europa is  believed  to have  over   twice  the water volume  of  Earth  .
the  Solar System  's  gas giant  ग्रह   हैं  also believed to possess  द्रव   वायुमंडलीय  layers  of  yet to be confirmed compositions  .
Oceans may  भी   मौजूद  on exoplanets  और  exomoons ,  सहित   सतह  oceans  of  liquid water within a  परितारकीय  habitable zone  .
समंदर   ग्रह  are a  काल्पनिक  type of planet with a  सतह  completely covered with liquid .
एल्विस  Aaron  प्रेस्ली  ( January 8  ,   1935  – August 16 , 1977 ) was an American singer  और  actor .
a  cultural  प्रतीक   ,   he   is  commonly  ज्ञात  by  the  single name  एल्विस  .
एक  of  the  most  लोकप्रिय   संगीतकारों   of  the  20th  century  ,  he  is   प्रायः  referred to as  the   ``  King  of   चट्टान   और   फेंकें  '' or  ``  the King ''  .
born  in  tupelo   ,   मिसिसिपी   ,  Presley moved to Memphis  ,   टेनेसी  , with his  परिवार  at the  आयु  of  13   .
He  began  his  करियर   वहीँ   in   1954  , working with Sun Records  मालिक  Sam Phillips ,  जो  wanted  to  bring  the  sound  of  African-American music  to  a wider  दर्शक  .
accompanied  by  guitarist  Scotty  मूर  and bassist Bill  ब्लैक  , Presley was the most  महत्वपूर्ण  popularizer  of  rockabilly , an uptempo  ,   backbeat  -driven fusion of country  और   लय  and  ब्लूज़  .
आरसीए  Victor acquired his contract  in  a  सौदे   arranged   by   कर्नल  Tom  पार्कर  , who  गई   on  to  मैनेज  the singer for  over  two  दशकों  .
Presley 's  पहला   आरसीए   सिंगल   ,  `` Heartbreak Hotel  ``   ,   released  in January  1956   ,  was  a   number-one  hit .
he  became  the  leading figure  of  the newly popular sound  of  rock  और   फेंकें   साथ   a  series  of  network television appearances  और  chart-topping  रिकॉर्ड   .
His energized interpretations of  गीतों   ,   अनेक  from African-American  स्त्रोत  , and his  uninhibited   प्रदर्शन  style  बना  him enormously popular—and  विवादास्पद  .
in  November  1956   ,   he  made his film  डेब्यू  in  प्रेम   me  Tender .
Drafted into  सैन्य   सेवा   in   1958  ,  प्रेस्ली  relaunched his recording career two years later with some  of   उसके  most commercially successful  कार्य  .
he  staged few  कॉन्सर्ट  however , and guided by Parker  ,   proceeded   to  devote much of the  1960s  to making Hollywood  फिल्मों   और  soundtrack albums , most of  उन्हें   critically  derided .
In 1968 ,  बाद  seven years  दूर   इससे  the stage  ,  he  लौटे   to  live performance in  a  celebrated comeback television  खास  that led  to  an extended  लास   वेगास  concert  रेसिडेंसी  and a string  of  profitable tours  .
in   1973   प्रेस्ली  staged the first  कॉन्सर्ट  broadcast  globally  via satellite ,  aloha  from Hawaii .
Prescription drug  गाली   severely   deteriorated  his health ,  और   he   died  suddenly in  1977   at  the  आयु   of  42 .
प्रेस्ली   is  regarded  as   एक  of  the  most important  आंकड़े   of  20th-century  लोकप्रिय  culture .
He had a versatile voice and unusually wide  कामयाबी   encompassing   अनेक  genres  ,  including country , pop ballads , gospel ,  और  blues .
he   is   the   best-selling  solo  कलाकार  in the history of  लोकप्रिय   म्यूज़िक   .
Nominated  लिये  14 competitive Grammys , he won  तीन   ,  and received  the  Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award at age  36  .
He has been  inducted   into  multiple music halls of  कीर्ति   .
A  कांच  of root  बियर  with  झाग
Root beer is  a  carbonated  ,   sweetened  beverage ,  originally  made using the  रूट  of  a  sassafras plant ( or  the  bark  of   a  sassafras tree  )  as  the  primary flavor .
Root beer , popularized  in  North  अमेरिका   ,   आता  in two forms  :   alcoholic   और  soft drink .
the  historical root beer was analogous to  छोटी  beer in  कि   the   प्रक्रम  provided a  पेय  with a very low  दारू   सामग्री   .
Although roots  हैं   प्रयुक्त  as the  सोर्स  of many  नरम  drinks  throughout  the world , often  अलग   names   हैं   प्रयुक्त  .
fluorescent  minerals emit  दृश्य  light  जब   उजागर   to  ultraviolet light
प्रतिदीप्ति  is  the   उत्सर्जन   of  light  by   a  substance that  रै   अवशोषित  light or  अन्य  electromagnetic  विकिरण   .
It is a  रूप   of  luminescence .
In  सबसे   मामले   ,  the  उत्सर्जित  light has a longer  wavelength  , and therefore lower  उर्जा  ,  than   the   अवशोषित   विकिरण  .
however   ,  when the  अवशोषित  electromagnetic  विकिरण  is intense  ,  it is  संभावित  for one electron  to  absorb  दो  photons ; this  two-photon  absorption can lead to emission  of  radiation  having  a shorter  wavelength   than  the absorbed  विकिरण  .
the   उत्सर्जित  radiation may also  be   of  the  वही  wavelength as the  अवशोषित  radiation ,  termed  `` resonance  प्रतिदीप्ति  '' .
the   सबसे  striking examples  of   प्रतिदीप्ति   occur   जब  the  अवशोषित  radiation  is  in the ultraviolet  प्रदेश  of the spectrum ,  और  thus invisible to  the  human eye  ,  and  the  emitted light  is   in   the  visible region  .
प्रतिदीप्ति   रै   अनेक   व्यावहारिक   अनुप्रयोग  ,  सहित  mineralogy , gemology , chemical sensors (  प्रतिदीप्ति  spectroscopy )  ,  fluorescent  लेबलिंग  ,  dyes  , biological  डिटेक्टरों  , and , most commonly  ,  fluorescent lamps .
अनौपचारिक  logic , intuitively ,  refers  to the principles of logic and logical  विचार  outside of  a  formal setting .
However  ,  perhaps because of the informal in the  शीर्षक  , the precise  परिभाषा   of  informal  लॉजिक  is a matter of some  विवाद   .
Ralph H.  जॉनसन   और  J.  एंथोनी  Blair  define  informal logic  as  `` a branch of  लॉजिक  whose task  is  to develop non-formal  मानकों   ,  criteria , procedures for  the   विश्लेषण  ,  निर्वचन  , evaluation ,  आलोचना   और   निर्माण  of  argumentation   .   ''
This definition reflects what had been implicit  in   उनके   अभ्यास   और  what others were doing  in  their  अनौपचारिक   लॉजिक  texts .
Informal logic is  संबद्ध   साथ   (  informal ) fallacies , critical thinking  ,   the   सोच   कौशल  Movement and the interdisciplinary  पूछताछ  known  as  argumentation theory  .
Frans H. van Eemeren writes that  the  label  ``  informal  लॉजिक  ''  कवर   a  ``  संग्रहण   of  normative  approaches   to   the  study of  तर्क  in  ordinary   भाषा  that remain closer  to  the practice of argumentation  than  formal logic . ''
यूएसए  annual  रियल  GDP 1910–60 , with the years  of  the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted  .
Unemployment rate  in  the  us  1910–1960  ,   साथ   the  years  of   the   ग्रेट   अवसाद  ( 1929–1939 )  highlighted  .
The  ग्रेट   अवसाद  began  in  August  of   1929  , when  the   संयुक्त  States  अर्थव्यवस्था  first  गई  into an  आर्थिक  recession .
Although  the   देश  spent  दो   महीने  with declining GDP ,  it   थी  not until the  वॉल  Street Crash of  अक्तूबर   ,  1929  कि  the effects of  a   घटती   अर्थव्यवस्था  were  लगा  ,  और   a   प्रमुख   विश्वव्यापी  economic  downturn  ensued .
the   मार्केट   क्रैश  marked the beginning  of  a decade of high  बेरोजगारी  , poverty  ,   कम  profits  ,   अपस्फीति  , plunging  फार्म  incomes ,  और  lost opportunities for economic growth  और  personal  उन्नति   .
हालांकि   इसके   कल्याणकारी  are still uncertain and controversial , the net  प्रभाव   थी   a   अचानक  and  सामान्य  loss  of  confidence in  the  economic  भविष्य  .
The  usual   स्पष्टीकरण  include numerous  कारकों   ,  especially high consumer debt  ,   ill-regulated   बाज़ार   कि  permitted overoptimistic  लोन  by banks and  निवेशकों  , and the lack of  high-growth  new  उद्योग  , all interacting to create a downward  आर्थिक  spiral of reduced spending  ,  falling  विश्वास  ,  और   lowered   उत्पादन  .
Industries that  suffered  the most included construction ,  कृषि   as  dust-bowl conditions  persisted  in the agricultural heartland ,  शिपिंग  ,  खनन  ,  और   लॉगिंग  as  खूब   as  durable  goods  like automobiles  और   उपकरण   कि  could  be  postponed  .
the   अर्थव्यवस्था   पहुँचे  bottom  in  the winter  of   1932–33  ;  तब  came four years  of   बहुत   रैपिड   विकास  until  1937  , when  the  Recession of 1937 brought back 1934 levels of unemployment  .
The  अवसाद  caused  प्रमुख  political  परिवर्तन   in   अमेरिका   .
Three  सालो  into  the  depression ,  हर्बर्ट  Hoover lost the  1932  presidential election  to  Franklin  delano   रूज़वेल्ट  in a sweeping  भूस्खलन   .
Roosevelt 's economic  रिकवरी  plan  ,   the   नई  Deal  ,  instituted unprecedented  कार्यक्रम  for  राहत  , recovery and reform  ,  and  brought   परिचय   a  major  realignment  of American  राजनीती   .
The  अवसाद  also resulted in an  बढ़ाएँ   of   करणों   of   लोगों  to  अन्य   देशों  for the first time  in   अमरीकी  history .
लिये  example ,  कुछ   आप्रवासियों  went  वापस  to their  देशी   देशों   ,  and some  देशी  US citizens  गई  to Canada  ,   ऑस्ट्रेलिया   ,  and South Africa .
it   भी   resulted   in  the mass migration of people  इससे   badly   hit   क्षेत्रों   in   the   ग्रेट  Plains  और  the South  to   स्थान  such as California and  the  North  ,   क्रमशः  ( see Okies and  the  Great Migration of African Americans ) .
Racial tensions also increased  दौरान  this time .
by  the  1940s  immigration  था  returned back to  सामान्य   ,  and emigration  अस्वीकृत   .
a   well-known  example of an emigrant was  फ़्रैंक  McCourt , who went  to  Ireland , as recounted  in   उसके  book  एंजेला  's  राख  .
the  memory of the Depression  भी  shaped modern  theories   of  economics and resulted in  अनेक   परिवर्तन   in   कैसा  the  सरकारी  dealt with  आर्थिक  downturns ,  ऐसे   as  the  उपयोग  of stimulus  पैकेज  , Keynesian economics , and  सोशल   सुरक्षा   .
it  also  तराशा  modern American  साहित्य   ,  resulting in famous  novels  such  as  John Steinbeck  's   ``  The Grapes of  प्रकोप  `` and ``  of  Mice  और   मेन   ``  .
The  ग्रेट  Depression  of   the  1930s started  साथ   the  stock market crash  of  October  1929   .
तुर्कों  (  )  , officially the  गणतंत्र  of  तुर्कों  ,  is   a  transcontinental  देश  , located mostly  on   आनातोलिया   in  Western Asia and  on  East  thrace   in  Southeastern Europe  .
तुर्कों   is  bordered  by   आठ  countries :  बुल्गारिया  to  the  northwest ; Greece to the  वेस्ट  ; Georgia to the northeast ;  अर्मेनिया  , Iran and the  अज़रबैजानी  exclave  of  Nakhchivan  to  the  ईस्ट  ; and Iraq and Syria  to  the southeast  .
The Mediterranean Sea is  to   the  south ; the Aegean  समुद्र  is to the  वेस्ट  ; and  the   ब्लैक  Sea is  to  the north .
the   समुद्र  of Marmara , the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles  (  which together form the Turkish Straits )  demarcate   the  boundary  between   thrace  and Anatolia ;  वे  also  पृथक   यूरोपीय  and  एशिया   .
तुर्कों  's  स्थान  at the  क्रॉसरोड्स  of Europe  और   एशिया  makes it  a   देश   of  significant  geostrategic  importance .
the  country 's official  भाषा  is Turkish , a Turkic  भाषा   ,  which is spoken  by  approximately  85   %  of  the  population  as  mother tongue  .
The  सबसे   numerous   जातीय  group is  the   turks   ,  who constitute  between  70 %  और   75   %   of  the population  according   to  The  संसार  Factbook  .
Kurds are the  largest  ethnic  अल्पसंख्यक  and  ,   according  to  the  same  सोर्स  ,  क्रमांक   around   18  % of  the  population while other  जातीय   अल्पसंख्यकों  are  अनुमानित   to  be  at  7–12  %   .
The  विशाल  majority of the population  is  Muslim .
The area now  पुकारा   तुर्कों   रै  been inhabited since the  paleolithic  , including  विभिन्न  Ancient Anatolian  सभ्यताओं  and Thracian  peoples  .
After  सिकंदर  the  ग्रेट  's conquest , the area was Hellenized ,  जिससे   जारी  with  the  Roman  नियम  and the transition  into   the  Byzantine Empire .
The Seljuk  turks  began  migrating   into   the  area in the 11th century  ,  starting the process  of  Turkification , which was  greatly  accelerated by the Seljuk  विजय  over  the  Byzantines at  the   बैटल  of Manzikert in 1071 .
the  Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm  शासित  Anatolia until the  mongol  invasion  in  1243  ,  upon which  it   disintegrated   into  several small  तुर्की  beyliks .
Starting  इससे  the  लेट  13th  सदी  , the Ottoman beylik  संयुक्त   आनातोलिया  and  निर्मित  an  साम्राज्य  encompassing  much  of  southeastern  Europe ,  पश्चिमी  Asia and North Africa  .
After the Ottoman  साम्राज्य   collapsed   following   इसके  defeat  in   संसार  War I , parts of  it  were  occupied  by  the   विजयी  Allies  .
a  cadre of  यंग   सैन्य  officers  ,   led   by   mustafa  Kemal Atatürk and his  सहयोगियों  , organized a successful resistance to the  allies  ; in  1923   वे  established the modern  गणतंत्र  of Turkey  ,  with Atatürk as its  पहला   अध्यक्ष  .
तुर्कों   is  a democratic , secular ,  एकात्मक   ,   संवैधानिक   गणतंत्र  with  a   विविध   सांस्कृतिक   विरासत  .
Turkey has  become  increasingly  एकीकृत   साथ  the West through  सदस्यता   in  organisations  ऐसे   as   the   परिषद  of  यूरोपीय  , NATO  ,  OECD  ,   osce   और   the  G-20 major  economies  .
तुर्कों  began  पूरा  membership negotiations  साथ  the  यूरोपीय  Union  in   2005   ,  having been  an  associate  सदस्य  of the European Economic Community  चूंकि  1963 and  having   joined  the EU  कस्टम  Union in  1995  .
Turkey has also fostered close  सांस्कृतिक  , political and  आर्थिक  relations with the Middle  ईस्ट  , Caucasus  ,  the  turkic  states  of   सेंट्रल  Asia and the  अफ़्रीकी  countries through membership in organisations  ऐसे   as   the  Turkic Council , Joint  प्रशासन   of   turkic   कला  and Culture ,  संगठन  of  इस्लामी  Cooperation and the Economic Cooperation Organisation  .
तुर्कों  's  growing   अर्थव्यवस्था  and diplomatic initiatives have  led  to its recognition  as  a  क्षेत्रीय  power .
Turkey is the world 's  17th  largest economy  by  nominal  जीडीपी   और   the  16th largest by purchasing  शक्ति  parity .
caryn  Elaine Johnson ,  बेहतरीन   ज्ञात  as Whoopi Goldberg ( ,  (  born  नवम्बर  13 ,  1955   )  is  an  American comedienne , actress , singer-songwriter ,  राजनैतिक   activist  ,  लेखक   और   बात  show  मेजबान  .
गोल्डबर्ग  made  उसके   फिल्मी   डेब्यू  in  the   रंग   जामुनी   (  1985  )  , playing  celie  ,  a  mistreated black  स्त्री  in the  गहन   दक्षिण  .
वो   प्राप्त  a nomination  लिये  the Academy  पुरस्कार   लिये  Best  अभिनेत्री   और  won her first  सुनहरी  Globe Award  लिये  her role  in  the film .
in   1990  , she  निभाई  Oda Mae Brown ,  a  wacky psychic helping a  slain   man  ( Patrick Swayze  )  save  उसके  lover ( Demi  मूर  )  in   the   ब्लॉकबस्टर  Ghost .
इस  performance  जीती  her a second  सुनहरी   ग्लोब   और   an   अकादमी  Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this  बना  Goldberg  तभी  the second black woman in  the  history of the Academy Awards to win  an  acting Oscar—the first  होने  Hattie McDaniel  जो   जीती  for Gone  साथ  the Wind in 1939 .
notable  later films include  सिस्टर   अधिनियम  and Sister  अधिनियम   2  ,  the  Player ,  बना  in America , How  स्टेला   मिला  Her  नाली   वापस  , Girl  ,   बाधित  and Rat Race  .
She  is  also  acclaimed   लिये  her  भूमिकाएँ  as the  बारटेंडर   guinan  in Star Trek : The Next Generation ,  as  Terry Doolittle  in  Jumpin  '  Jack Flash  ,  and  as  Carmen Tibideaux  in  Glee , as well  as   the   आवाज़  of Shenzi  the   लकड़बग्घा  in  the  Lion  किंग   .
Goldberg  रै   महरूम   मनोनीत  for 13  एमी  Awards for  उसके   कार्य  in  टेलीविज़न  .
She  थी  co-producer of the popular  खेल  show Hollywood Squares from  1998  to 2004 .
She has  महरूम   the  moderator of the daytime talk show  the  View  चूंकि  2007  .
Goldberg has a Grammy , two  दिन   emmys   ,  two Golden Globes , a Tony (  लिये   उत्पादन   ,   नहीं  acting  )  , and  an  Oscar .
In addition , Goldberg  रै  a British Academy Film  पुरस्कार  , four  लोगों  's  चुनाव  Awards , and  रै   महरूम  honored with a star  on  the  हॉलीवुड   चलना   of  Fame  .
वो  is one  of  the few entertainers  जो  have won an Emmy  ,   ग्रैमी  , Oscar , and Tony  पुरस्कार  .
Augusta  is  a  संचित  city  in  the  u.S.  state of  जॉर्जिया  , located at the  पतन  line of the  savannah   नदी   ,   at  the head  of   इसके   navigable  portion  .
as  of the  2010  census  ,  the  augusta–   रिचमंड  County  जनसांख्यिकी   थी  195,844 not counting the unconsolidated cities of  hephzibah  and  blythe  .
Augusta is the principal  नगर   of   the   augusta  – Richmond County  महानगर   सांख्यिकीय  Area  ,   जिससे  as of  2010  had  an   अनुमानित  population of  556,877  ,  बनाना   it  both the  second-largest  city and the  second-largest   मैट्रो  area in  the  state after Atlanta  .
It  is   the   116th-largest   नगर   in   the  United States  .
Internationally , Augusta is best  ज्ञात  for hosting The  मास्टर्स   टूर्नामेंट   in  golf  प्रत्येक  spring .
A CD-ROM (  )   is  a pre-pressed  कॉम्पैक्ट  disc which contains  आंकड़ा  .
the  name  is   an  acronym which stands  लिये  ``  कॉम्पैक्ट  Disc Read-only memory `` .
कंप्यूटर   can   पढ़ा  CD-ROMs  ,   लकिन   can   नहीं   लिखें  on them  .
CD-ROMs  हैं   popularly   प्रयुक्त  to distribute  कंप्यूटर   तन्त्र  , including video  खेल  and  मल्टीमीडिया  applications  ,   हालांकि   कोई  data  can  be stored  (  up to the capacity limit of a  डिस्क   )  .
कुछ   cds   ,   पुकारा   उन्नत   cds  ,  थाम  both computer  आंकड़ा  and audio  साथ  the  latter  capable of  होने   निभाई  on  a  CD player , while data (  ऐसे  as software  or  digital  वीडियो  )  is  only  usable   on   a   कंप्यूटर  ( such  as   आईएसओ   9660  format PC CD-ROMs  )   .
the   पीला  Book  is  the technical  मानक  that defines  the  format of CD-ROMs .
एक   of  a set of  color-bound  books that contain the technical specifications  लिये  all CD formats  ,  the  पीला   किताब   ,   निर्मित  by  सोनी   और  Philips ,  थी  the first extension of  कॉम्पैक्ट  Disc Digital Audio  .
It  adapted   the   स्वरूप  to hold any  रूप  of data  .
the  Chicago Blackhawks  (  spelled  as  Black  चीलों   पहले   1986  ,  और   ज्ञात   colloquially  as the Hawks  )   हैं   a   पेशेवर   बर्फ  hockey  टोली  based in Chicago , Illinois  .
They are members of  the   सेंट्रल   प्रभाग  of the Western Conference  of   the   नेशनल  Hockey League (  एनएचएल  ) .
They have  जीती  four  स्टेनली  Cup championships since  उनके   founding  in  1926  , most recently  in  2009–10 .
the   ब्लैकहॉक्स  are  एक   of   the   असली  Six NHL  टीमों  ,  साथ   साथ  the  डेट्रॉयट  Red Wings ,  मॉन्ट्रियल   canadiens  , Toronto  मेपल  Leafs , Boston Bruins  और  New  यॉर्क   रेंजरों  .
Since the Blackhawks have played their home  खेल   at   the   संयुक्त  Center after  having  spent 65 years  playing  at  शिकागो  Stadium .
Lent  याजकों   carrying  out  a   गली  procession  दौरान  Holy Week  .
The  बैंगनी  color  is  often associated with penance and  detachment   .
समान  Christian  penitential   अभ्यास   is  seen in other Catholic  देशों   ,  sometimes  संबद्ध   साथ  mortification  of   the   flesh  .
Granada , Nicaragua .
Lent ( Latin :  quadragesima   )  is a solemn  observance  in  the   liturgical   साल   of   अनेक  Christian  denominations   ,  lasting for a  काल  of approximately six weeks leading  up   to  Easter  संडे   .
In  the   सामान्य  Latin-rite and  सबसे   पश्चिमी  denominations Lent is  लिया   to  run from Ash Wednesday to Maundy Thursday ( Holy  गुरुवार  ) morning or  to   ईस्टर  Eve .
In the Catholic Church  ,  Lent  lasts  until Holy  गुरुवार  ,  जबकि  other  denominations  run until  ईस्टर  Eve .
the   परंपरागत  purpose of Lent is the  तैयारी   of   the  believer through prayer ,  penance  , repentance , almsgiving  ,  and  self-denial  .
इसके   संस्थागत   purpose   is  heightened in  the  annual commemoration of  पावन   सप्ताह  ,  अंकन  the  मौत   ,  burial and resurrection of Jesus ,  जिससे   recalls  the events  of   the  Bible when Jesus is crucified  on  Good Friday , which then culminates in  the   जश्न  on  ईस्टर  Sunday  of  the Resurrection of Jesus Christ  .
दौरान  Lent  ,  many of the  वफादार   कमिट  to  उपवास  or giving up certain  प्रकार  of  luxuries   as  a form  of  penitence .
the  Stations of the Cross ,  a  devotional commemoration  of  Christ  's  carrying the Cross and  of   उसके  execution  ,   हैं  often observed .
अनेक  Roman Catholic and some Protestant churches remove flowers  इससे   उनके  altars , while  crucifixes   ,   धार्मिक   मूर्तियाँ  , and  अन्य  elaborate religious symbols are often veiled  in  violet  fabrics  in  solemn   observance  of the event  .
In certain pious Catholic  देशों   ,  some adherents mark the season with the traditional abstention  इससे   the  consumption of  मांस  .
in   कुछ  countries  ,  grand  धार्मिक   जुलूसों  and cultural customs are observed  ,  and the  वफादार  attempt  to   विज़िट  seven churches during  पावन  Week  in  honor of Jesus Christ heading to  माउंट  Calvary  .
Lent  is   traditionally  described as  स्थायी  for forty days  ,  in  commemoration   of   the   चालीस   दिनों  which ,  according  to  the   gospels   of  Matthew , Mark  और   ल्यूक   ,   यीशु   खर्च  fasting in  the  desert before the  शुरूआत  of his public ministry , where he  endured  temptation  by   the  Devil .
however  , different Christian denominations calculate the forty  दिनों   of  Lent  differently  .
In most Western  परंपराओं   the  Sundays are not counted  as   भाग  of  lent   ;   यूँ   the  period from Ash Wednesday until  ईस्टर  consists of 40 days  जब  the  sundays  are  excluded   .
However in the  रोमन   कैथोलिक  Church  lent   is   अभी  taken to end  on  Holy Thursday  बल्कि   than   ईस्टर  Eve , and  hence   lasts  38 days excluding Sundays , or 44 days in  कुल  .
इस  event ,  साथ  with  इसके  pious customs are  observed   by   catholics   ,   lutherans  ,  methodists  , Presbyterians  ,  and Anglicans .
Location of Chernobyl  नाभिकीय  power plant
the  abandoned  नगर   of  Pripyat  साथ   chernobyl   संयंत्र  in the distance
Abandoned housing  ब्लॉक  in  pripyat
The  chernobyl  disaster ( , Chornobylska  katastrofa  –  chornobyl  Catastrophe )  थी  a catastrophic nuclear  दुर्घटना   कि  occurred  on  26 April  1986  at the Chernobyl  नाभिकीय  Power Plant  in   युक्त  ( then  officially   the   यूक्रेनी  SSR  )  ,  जिससे   थी   अंतर्गत  the  सीधा  jurisdiction of the central authorities  of  the Soviet Union .
an   विस्फोट   और  fire released large  quantities  of radioactive particles into  the  atmosphere  ,  which spread over  much   of  the western  ussr   और   यूरोपीय  .
The  chernobyl   विपत्ति  is  widely  considered to  have  been the worst  नाभिकीय  power plant accident in history ,  और  is one  of  only  दो   वर्गीकृत   as   a  level  7  event  on  the International Nuclear  इवेंट  Scale ( the  अन्य  being  the   फुकुशिमा   daiichi  nuclear disaster  in  2011  )   .
the  battle to contain the  संदूषण  and avert  a  greater catastrophe  ultimately  involved over 500,000 workers  और   लागत   an  estimated 18 billion rubles .
the   आधिकारिक  Soviet casualty count  of   31  deaths  रै  been  विवादित  , and long-term  प्रभाव   ऐसे  as  cancers  and deformities are still  होने  accounted for .
In grammar  ,  a  विषय   पूरक  is a predicative expression  कि  follows a  linking   क्रिया   (  copula  )  and that complements  (  completes )  the   विषय  of the sentence by either  (   1   )   renaming  it or (  2   )  describing it .
in  the former  मामला  , a  renaming  noun phrase such as  a   संज्ञा   or   सर्वनाम  is  पुकारा  a  predicative  nominal  .
An adjective  following   the  copula and describing the  विषय  is  पुकारा  a predicative  क्रियाशील  .
In either case  the  predicative  पूरक   in  effect  mirrors   the  subject .
Subject complements  हैं  used with a small  क्लास  of verbs  पुकारा  linking  क्रियाएँ  or  copula  ,  of  which be is the most common .
Since  copula   हैं   stative   क्रियाएँ  , subject complements are not  प्रभावित  by any action of the verb .
Subject complements are typically  नहीं   clause  arguments  ,  nor  हैं  they  clause   केंद्रीभूत   .
Throughout the fifty-five  साल   इतिहास   of   the  Grammy  पुरस्कार   ,  many significant records have been set  .
This page only includes  the  competitive awards  जीती   by   विभिन्न   कलाकारों  .
इस  does not  शामिल  the various special awards that  हैं  presented by  the  National Academy of Recording  कला  and Sciences such as  आजीवन   उपलब्धि   पुरस्कार   ,  Trustees  पुरस्कार  ,  तकनीकी  Awards  or  Legend  पुरस्कार   .
The page  however  does include other  non-performance   सम्बन्धित  Grammys (  ज्ञात  as the Craft &  उत्पादन   फ़ील्ड  )  कि  may  have  been presented  to  the  कलाकार  (  s  )  .
Marshall Bruce Mathers  iii   (  born October 17  ,  1972  )   ,  better  ज्ञात  by  उसके   स्टेज  name Eminem ( stylized as EMINƎM ) and by his  alter   अहंकार  Slim  छायादार   ,   is  an American  rapper  , record producer , songwriter and actor  .
Eminem ,  साथ  with his solo  करियर   ,  is  a   सदस्य   of  his group  d12  ,  और  also one  हाफ  of  the   हिप   हॉप  duo Bad Meets  दुष्ट  ,  साथ  Royce da 5'9 '' .
Eminem  is  one of the best-selling artists  in   the  world and  is  the best-selling artist of  the   2000s  .
He has been  सूचीबद्ध   और   क्रमित  as  एक   of  the  महानतम   कलाकारों  of  सब  time  by  many  मैगज़ीन  ,  सहित  Rolling  स्टोन  magazine  जिससे  ranked  उसे   82nd  on its  सूची  of  the   100  Greatest  कलाकारों  of  सब   समय  .
The same magazine  घोषित  him  the  King of Hip Hop .
सहित  his work  साथ   d12  and  ख़राब  Meets Evil , Eminem  रै  achieved  टेन  number-one albums on the  बिलबोर्ड  200 .
He has  बेची  more than  100  million records worldwide , including  42  million tracks and  49.1  million  एल्बम  in the United  राज्य   .
as   an   भूमिगत  rapper  एमिनेम  released his  डेब्यू   सोलो  album  ,  Infinite in  1996  .
The  एल्बम  was  a   नाजुक   और   वाणिज्यिक   विफलता  .
he  gained mainstream popularity  in  1999 after the  रिलीज   of   उसके   major-label  debut  एल्बम  The  पतला   छायादार   lp   .
The  lp  also  अर्जित   एमिनेम  his  पहला  Grammy  पुरस्कार   लिये  Best  रैप  Album .
His  अगला  two records The Marshall  mathers  LP , and The Eminem  दिखाएँ  ,  भी  won Best Rap Album  ग्रैमी   पुरस्कार  , making  एमिनेम  the first  कलाकार   to   जीत  Best Rap  एल्बम  for three consecutive LPs .
इस  was  followed   by   another  studio release  in  2004  titled  Encore  .
Eminem then  गई  on hiatus after  touring   in  2005 .
he  released his  पहला  album in five years titled Relapse , on May 15 ,  2009  .
In  2010  , Eminem  released  his  सातवाँ   स्टुडियो   एल्बम  Recovery  .
Recovery was an international  कामयाबी   और  was named the  बेहतरीन  selling  एल्बम  of  2010   विश्वव्यापी   ,  joining  the  Eminem  दिखाएँ   ,  which was  the   बेहतरीन  seller of 2002  .
Eminem  जीती  Grammy  पुरस्कार  for  दोनो  Relapse and Recovery ,  giving  him a total of  13  Grammys  in  his career .
एमिनेम   रै  opened  अन्य  ventures  ,  including his own record  लेबल  Shady Records with his manager Paul Rosenberg .
he  also has  उसके  own  रेडियो   चैनल   ,   शेड  45 on  sirius  XM  रेडियो   .
Eminem began an  एक्टिंग   करियर  in  2002   ,  when  he   स्ट्रक्चर   in  the hip hop drama film 8 Mile .
He  जीती  the  अकादमी   पुरस्कार  for Best Original  सोंग  , becoming the  पहला  rap  कलाकार   कभी  to win the award .
He  रै   भी  made  कैमियो  appearances in  the   धो   (  2001  )  , Funny  लोगों   (   2009  )  और  the  टेलीविज़न   श्रेणी  Entourage .
The  एकड़   is  a  ईकाई  of area used in the imperial and U.S. customary systems .
An  एकड़   is  about 40 % of a hectare – slightly smaller than an American football  फ़ील्ड  .
the  acre is  no   longer   commonly   प्रयुक्त   ,   हालांकि  a  few  notable  अपवाद  include  the   संयुक्त  States , Australia  ,   बर्मा   और   the   संयुक्त  Kingdom ( as of 2010 , the acre is no longer officially  प्रयुक्त  in  the   संयुक्त   किंगडम  ,  हालांकि  is still  प्रयुक्त  in real estate descriptions  )  .
It  is  still  प्रयुक्त  ,  to   कुछ  extent , in  कनाडा  .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  symbol of the  एकड़   is   ac   ,  and  is  defined  as  1/640 of a square  मील  .
the   सबसे  commonly used acre today  is   the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   एकड़  .
In the  संयुक्त  States  दोनो  the international acre and  the   थोड़ा   अलग   us  survey acre are in use  .
The most common use  of  the  एकड़   is  to measure  tracts  of land .
One international acre  is  defined  as   4046.8564224  square metres .
दौरान   the  Middle Ages  ,   an   एकड़  was  the   राशि  of  जमीन   कि  could be plowed in one  दिन  with a yoke of  oxen  .
एंटोनी   लाव्वाज़्ये  's  डिस्कवरी  of the Law of Conservation  of   द्रव्यमान   led  to many new findings in  the   19th  century  .
Joseph Proust  's  law of definite  proportions   और  John Dalton 's atomic  सिद्धान्त   branched   इससे   the   discoveries   of   एंटोनी   लाव्वाज़्ये  .
Lavoisier  's   quantitative  experiments revealed that combustion involved  ऑक्सीजन   बल्कि  than  कया  was previously thought to be phlogiston  .
the   विधि  of  संरक्षण  of  द्रव्यमान   ,   or  principle  of   द्रव्यमान   संरक्षण  , states that  लिये  any system closed to  सब  transfers  of  matter and energy  (  both of which have  द्रव्यमान  ) , the  द्रव्यमान  of the  प्रणाली  must  remain   निरंतर   over  time ,  as  system mass  can  not change  मात्रा   if  it is not  added   or   removed  .
Hence ,  the  quantity of mass is `` conserved ''  over  time .
the  law  implies  that mass can neither be created  nor   नष्ट   ,   हालांकि  it may  be   rearranged  in space  ,   or  the  entities   संबद्ध  with it may  be  changed in form  ,  as for  उदाहरण  when light or physical  कार्य   is  transformed into particles that contribute  the  same  द्रव्यमान   to   the  system as the light  or  work  था   contributed  .
The law implies ( requires ) that  दौरान   कोई  chemical reaction ,  नाभिकीय  reaction ,  or   रेडियोसक्रिय  decay in  an   पृथक   प्रणाली  , the mass of  the  reactants  or  starting material  जरूर   बराबर  the mass of the products  .
the   अवधारणा  of mass conservation  is  widely used  in   अनेक  fields  ऐसे   as   रसायन   ,  mechanics  ,   और   द्रव  dynamics .
Historically  ,   द्रव्यमान  conservation was discovered in chemical reactions  by   एंटोनी   लाव्वाज़्ये   in   the  late 18th  सदी  , and  थी   of   निर्णायक  importance  in   the  progress from alchemy to the modern  प्राकृतिक  science  of  chemistry  .
The closely related  अवधारणा  of matter conservation  थी  found  to  hold good in chemistry to  ऐसे  high approximation  कि  it failed only for  the  high energies treated  by  the later refinements of  आपेक्षिकता   सिद्धान्त  , but otherwise remains  उपयोगी  and sufficiently  सटीक   लिये  most  रासायनिक  calculations ,  भी  in  आधुनिक  practice  .
In special  आपेक्षिकता  , needed for accuracy when large energy  हस्तांतरण   between  systems is  शामिल  ,  the   अंतर  between  thermodynamically   बंद  and isolated systems  becomes  important  ,   चूंकि  conservation  of   द्रव्यमान   is  strictly and  perfectly   upheld  only for  so-called  isolated systems , i.e  .   those   completely   पृथक  from all  exchanges   साथ   the  environment  .
In this circumstance ,  the   mass-energy  equivalence  प्रमेय  states that  द्रव्यमान  conservation is equivalent to  कुल  energy  संरक्षण  , which is  the  first law of thermodynamics  .
By contrast , for a thermodynamically  बंद  system ( i.e. , one  जिससे  is  बंद   to  exchanges of  पदार्थ  ,  लकिन  open to  exchanges  of non-material  उर्जा  , such as heat  और  work , with the surroundings  )  mass is  (  usually )  तभी   लगभग   conserved  .
The  इनपुट   or   आउटपुट  of  non-material  energy  जरूर   बदलें  the  द्रव्यमान   of   the   प्रणाली   in  relativity theory , although the change is  प्रायः   छोटी   ,  since relatively large  amounts   of  such  उर्जा  (  by  comparison  साथ   ordinary  experience ) carry only a small  राशि   of  mass  (  again  by  ordinary standards of  मापन   )  .
in   खास  relativity , mass is not  परिवर्तित   to  energy ,  चूंकि  energy  in  all of its forms always retains  इसके  equivalent  राशि  of mass  throughout   कोई   परिवर्तन  or translocation into , or out of  ,  a  प्रणाली  .
however   ,   निश्चित  types of matter ( a different concept  )   may   be   परिवर्तित  to energy  ,  so  long   as   the   द्रव्यमान   of  the system is unchanged  in   the   प्रक्रम  .
However  ,   if   ऐसे  energy is  removed  from systems  ,  they must lose the mass that is  संबद्ध  with  it  .
in   सामान्य  relativity  ,   द्रव्यमान   (  and  उर्जा  ) conservation  in  expanding volumes of  स्पेस   is  a complex concept ,  विषय  to  अलग  definitions ,  और   neither  mass nor  उर्जा   is  as  सख्ती  and simply conserved  as  is  the  case in special relativity and  in   मिन्कोवस्की  space .
For  a  discussion , see mass in general relativity .
a   सुअर  is any  of   the  animals in the genus Sus , within  the  Suidae family  of  even-toed ungulates  .
Pigs include  the   घरेलू  pig ,  इसके   पूर्वज   the  wild  boar  , and  अनेक   अन्य  wild relatives .
यंग  and small  सूअर   हैं  known as piglets .
Pigs are omnivores  और  are highly social  और  intelligent animals .
8-inch  ,  -inch   ,  and -inch  फ्लॉपी  disks
8-inch  , -inch  (   पूरा   ऊँचाई  ) , and -inch drives
A 3.5-inch  diskette  's ``  फ्लॉपी   ''  magnetic  सामग्री   ,   removed  from  इसके  housing
a  floppy disk  ,  or  diskette  , is a disk  भंडार   मीडियम  composed of a  डिस्क   of   पतला  and flexible  चुम्बकीय  storage  मीडियम   ,   sealed  in  a  rectangular  प्लास्टिक   वाहक   lined   साथ   कपड़ा   कि  removes  धूल  particles .
वे  are  पढ़ा  and  लिखा   by  a  फ्लॉपी  disk  ड्राइव  ( FDD  )  .
फ्लॉपी   डिस्क  , initially as  मीडिया  and  बाद   in   और  3.5-inch  (  90 mm  )   आकार  , were a  सर्वव्यापी  form of data storage  और  exchange from the mid-1970s well  into  the  पहला   दशक   of   the  21st century .
By 2010  ,  computer  motherboards   यहूद   rarely   manufactured   साथ  floppy drive support ; `` floppies could  be  used as  an  external USB drive  ,   लकिन   ``  , 8 `` ,  और   non-standard  drives could only be  संभाला   by  old  उपकरण   .
While  फ्लॉपी  disk  ड्राइव   स्टिल   have   कुछ   सीमित   उपयोग  , especially  साथ   विरासत  industrial  कंप्यूटर  equipment  ,   वे  have been superseded by data  भंडार  methods  साथ  much greater  क्षमता  , such  as   usb   फ्लैश  drives  ,  portable external  मुश्किल   डिस्क   ड्राइव  ,  ऑप्टिकल   discs  , memory  ताश  , and computer networks  .
An animated  आरेख  of a cutter
In baseball , a  कटर  , or  काटें   fastball  , is  a   प्रकार   of   fastball   जिससे  breaks slightly  toward  the pitcher 's  दस्ताने  side  as   it   पहुँच   घर   थाली  .
इस   पिच   is  somewhere  between  a  स्लाइडर   और   a  fastball ,  as   it  is  प्रायः  thrown faster than  a   स्लाइडर   लकिन  with  अधिक   गति   than  a  ठेठ   fastball   .
कुछ   pitchers   उपयोग   a   कटर  as a  रास्ता  to prevent  hitters  from expecting their regular  fastballs   .
A  आम   तकनीक  used to  throw  a cutter  is   to  use  a  four-seam fastball  पकड़  with  the  baseball set slightly  बंद  center in the hand .
When  a  batter  is  able to hit a cutter  पिच  , it often  परिणाम  in  नरम   सम्पर्क  and  an  easy  आउट   ,  due  to  the  पिच  's  गति   keeping   the   बॉल  away from the bat 's  मीठी  spot .
the  cutter is typically 2–5  किमी   धीमा  than  a   पिचर  's four-seam fastball .
in  2010  ,   the   औसत  pitch classified as a cutter  by  PITCHf/x  thrown   by  a  right-handed  pitcher  थी  88.6 mph  ;  the average four-seamer was  92.1   किमी  .
``   कया  It  takes  '' is a power ballad by American hard rock band  एरोस्मिथ  .
It was written by Steven Tyler  ,  Joe Perry  ,  and Desmond Child .
It was released in  1990   as   the  third single from Aerosmith  's   critically  and commercially successful  1989   एल्बम   पंप  .
In the video The Making  of   पंप   ,  A & R man John Kalodner  वर्णित  the  सोंग  as ``  a  masterpiece  ''  .
During live performances ,  टायलर  sings the first  श्लोक   a  cappella and  बेल्ट   आउट  one of his signature screams right before the  कोरस  .
the   एल्बम   संस्करण   of  the song is  followed  by an untitled  छुपा   track  .
Head of Odysseus from a  यूनानी   2nd  century  bc  marble  समूह   representing   odysseus   blinding  Polyphemus , found  at   the   विला  of Tiberius at Sperlonga
विवरण   of  an  प्राचीन  Roman  मोज़ेक   of  Ulysses  in   ट्यूनीशिया
Odysseus (  or  ; Greek :  ,  )  ,   भी   ज्ञात  by  the  Roman name Ulysses ( ; ) , was  a   legendary   यूनानी   किंग  of Ithaca  और  a hero of  होमर  's epic  कविता   the   ओडिसी   .
Odysseus also  plays  a  कुंजी   भूमिका   in   होमर   's  Iliad  और   अन्य  works in  कि   वही   एपिक   साईकिल   .
Husband of Penelope  ,  father of  telemachus  , and son of Laërtes (  or  Sisyphus  )   और  Anticlea  ,   odysseus   is   प्रसिद्ध  for his brilliance ,  छल   ,  and  versatility  (  polytropos   )  , and is hence  ज्ञात   by  the  epithet   odysseus  the Cunning  (  mētis ,  or   ``  cunning intelligence `` ) .
He is  सबसे   प्रसिद्ध  for the  टेन  eventful years he took  to  return  घर  after the  decade-long   trojan  War and his famous  trojan  Horse ploy to capture the  नगर  of Troy .
Erie is a Statutory  कस्बा  in  बोल्डर  and Weld counties  in  the  u.S.  state of  कोलोराडो  .
The population according  to   the   2010  census  is   18,135  and was recorded as  6,291   at   the  2000 census .
the  Town of  erie  is located  बस  west of  i-25  for  आसान   अभिगम  to  i-70  ,  डेनवर   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport and Colorado  's  entire  सामने   दायरा   .
erie  's Planning Area spans  48  square miles  ,   extending   इससे  the  उत्तर   पक्ष   of  State  राजमार्ग  52 south to  राज्य  Highway 7 , and between US  287  on the  वेस्ट  and Interstate  25  to  the  east .
Erie  is  approximately  35  minutes from Denver  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   विमानक्षेत्र   ,   25   मिनट्स   to  Denver and  20   मिनट्स   इससे  Boulder .
The Board  of  Trustees  serves  as  the  legislative and governing body of  the  Town  of  Erie and is  जिम्मेदार   लिये  establishing  कस्बा   नीतियों  and goals .
the  Board has the  प्राधिकार  to  अपनाना   कानून   ,   ordinances  and resolutions as needed  to  conduct  the  business of the  कस्बा  ,  और  by ordinance may  डालें   into  contracts or intergovernmental agreements  to  furnish , receive services or  to   provide  for cooperative  सेवा  delivery  .
Appointed  by   और  serving  at  the pleasure of  the  Board of  trustees   ,  the  कस्बा  Administrator is  the  chief operating and administrative  अधिकारी  of the Town  और  is responsible for providing  पेशेवर  leadership in  the  administration and  निष्पादन  of  नीतियों  and objectives formulated by the Board  .
the   मिशन   of   the   erie  Police  विभाग   is  to communicate and work with the  जातियाँ  to  maintain   a  safe environment , prevent  अपराधों   और   enforce  the law  ,  while protecting the  अधिकारों  of all  .
Erie  नगरपालिका  Airport (  eik   )   is   स्वामित्व  and operated by the Town of  erie   और  is strategically located in the  denver-boulder   महानगर  area on Colorado Highway  7  ,  a  little over  तीन   मील  west of  अंतरराज्यीय   25   .
the   प्रमुख  runway is concrete paved  और  4,700  फीट  long  .
the  is a  घर  video game console  उत्पादित  by  सोनी   कंप्यूटर  Entertainment .
It is the successor to the  प्लेस्टेशन  2  ,  as part of  the  PlayStation series .
the  PlayStation 3 competes with  microsoft   's  Xbox  360  and Nintendo 's  वी   as   भाग  of the seventh  पीढी  of  वीडियो   खेल   consoles  .
it   थी   पहला   released  on November 11 , 2006  ,  in Japan ,  साथ  international markets  following  shortly  thereafter   .
The console  थी  first  officially  announced at E3  2005  .
originally   नियत  for a  वसन्त  2006 release date ,  it  was delayed several  टाइम्स  until finally  hitting  stores at the end of the year  .
It was the first and  फिलहाल  only console to use Blu-ray  डिस्क  as its primary storage medium  .
Major features of the console include  इसके   एकीकृत  online gaming service ,  the  PlayStation Network , and its  कनेक्टिविटी  with the PlayStation  पोर्टेबल   और   प्लेस्टेशन  Vita ,  in  September  2009   the  updated PlayStation 3 Slim  ,  was released .
This Slim is lighter and  thinner  than  the  original  संस्करण   ,  although  it  lacks PlayStation  2   पीछे  compatibility (  removed  on later original models  )  , but notably featured a re-designed logo and  विपणन   डिज़ाइन  .
As  of   नवम्बर   4  , 2012  ,   70  million PlayStation  3s   have  been  बेची  worldwide .
Its  successor  , PlayStation  4  ,  is   नियत   लिये   a   q4  2013  रिलीज  .
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto  dalí  i  domènech   ,  1st  marqués  de Dalí  de   pubol   (   may  11 , 1904January 23 ,  1989  ) , known as  साल्वाडोर  Dalí ( ) ,  थी  a prominent Spanish surrealist  चित्रकार   born   in  Figueres  ,   स्पेन  .
dalí  was a  skilled  draftsman ,  बेहतरीन  known  लिये   the  striking and bizarre  बिंब  in his surrealist work  .
His painterly skills are often attributed  to  the influence of Renaissance  मास्टर्स   .
His  best-known  work  ,  The Persistence  of  Memory , was  समाप्त  in  1931   .
Dalí 's expansive  कलाकारी   रंगमंडल  included film ,  मूर्तिकला  ,  और  photography  ,   in  collaboration  साथ  a range of  कलाकारों  in  a  variety of  मीडिया   .
Dalí attributed his ``  प्रेम  of everything that is gilded and  excessive  , my passion  लिये   लक्ज़री  and  my  love of oriental clothes ''  to   a   self-styled   ``   अरब  lineage  ''   ,   claiming  that  उसके   पूर्वजो   यहूद  descended from  the   मूर  .
dalí   थी  highly  कल्पनाशील  , and also  enjoyed  indulging in unusual  और  grandiose behavior .
His eccentric manner and attention-grabbing public actions  sometimes  drew  अधिक   ध्यान   than   उसके   कलाकृति   ,   to  the  dismay   of   those  who held his work in  ऊँची  esteem ,  और  to  the  irritation of his critics  .
Philosopher Plato  by   silanion
The  मानवता   हैं  academic disciplines that  पढ़ाई  human culture , using  विधि   कि  are primarily analytical ,  नाजुक   ,  or speculative ,  और  having a significant historical element , as  विशिष्ट  from  the  mainly empirical approaches of  the   प्राकृतिक   sciences   .
The humanities include  प्राचीन  and  आधुनिक  languages ,  साहित्य  ,  दर्शनशास्त्र  ,  धर्म   ,  and visual and performing arts such as  म्यूज़िक  and theatre  .
the   मानवता  that  हैं  also regarded as  सोशल  sciences  शामिल   इतिहास   ,  anthropology , area studies  ,   संचार  studies , cultural studies  ,   विधि  , economics and linguistics .
Scholars  working  in the  मानवता   हैं  sometimes  वर्णित   as   ``   humanists  ''  .
However , that  पद  also describes  the  philosophical  स्थिति  of humanism , which  कुछ  ``  antihumanist  `` scholars in  the  humanities  अस्वीकृत  .
Some secondary  स्कूलों  offer humanities classes  ,   प्रायः   consisting   of  English  साहित्य   ,   वैश्विक   अध्ययन  , and  आर्ट  .
Human disciplines  जैसे   इतिहास  , cultural anthropology and  मनोविश्लेषण  study subject  matters  to  जिससे  the experimental  विधि  does  नहीं  apply  ,   और  they have  अभिगम  instead  to  the comparative  विधि  and comparative research  .
the  2005 Blue  रूम  Christmas  पेड़
The White House  क्रिसमस  Tree ,  भी  known  as  the Blue Room Christmas Tree  ,   is   the  official  अंदर  Christmas tree  at  the residence of  the   अध्यक्ष   of  the United States  ,  the White House  .
the  first indoor Christmas tree  थी  installed in the  श्वेत  House sometime  in   the  19th century ( there  हैं  varying  दावा   as  to the exact year )  और  since 1961 the tree has  था   a  themed motif at the discretion of the First Lady  of  the  संयुक्त  States  .
The President  of   the  United  राज्य  of America (  potus   )  is the  सिर   of  state and  सिर  of government of the  संयुक्त  States  .
The  अध्यक्ष   लीड   the  executive  शाखा  of  the  federal government  और   is  the commander-in-chief of the United States  हथियारबंद  Forces  .
Article  ii   of   the  U.S.  संविधान   vests   the   कार्यपालिका  power of  the   संयुक्त  States in the  अध्यक्ष  and charges  उसे  with  the  execution  of  federal  विधि  , alongside  the   जिम्मेदारी   of  appointing  संघीय  executive , diplomatic  ,  regulatory  ,  and  न्यायिक  officers  ,  and  concluding  treaties  साथ  foreign  शक्तियां  ,  साथ  the  सलाह   और   सहमति  of the Senate .
the  president is further empowered to  ग्रान्ट  federal pardons  और  reprieves ,  और  to convene  और  adjourn either  or  both  घरों   of  Congress under extraordinary circumstances .
Since  the  founding of the United  राज्य  ,  the  power  of   the   अध्यक्ष  and the federal government  have  grown  substantially  and each modern  अध्यक्ष  ,  despite   possessing  no formal legislative powers beyond  हस्ताक्षर  or vetoing congressionally passed bills , is  largely   जिम्मेदार   लिये   dictating  the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of  the  United States .
the   अध्यक्ष   is   अक्सर  described as  the  most powerful  व्यक्ति   in  the world .
The president is  indirectly  elected by  the   लोगों   through   the  Electoral College to  a   four-year  term ,  और  is one  of  only  दो   nationally   निर्वाचित  federal officers , the other  होने  the  वाइस  President  of   the  United  राज्य   .
The Twenty-second Amendment  ,  adopted in  1951  ,  prohibits  anyone from ever being elected to the presidency  लिये   a   तीसरा  full  पद  .
It  भी   prohibits   a  person from being elected to the  प्रेसिडेंसी  more than  एकबार  if that person previously had  परोसा  as president ,  or  acting president  ,   लिये  more  than   दो   सालो  of another person 's  पद   as   अध्यक्ष  .
In all  ,  43 individuals  have  served  55  four-year terms .
On January 20 , 2009 , Barack Obama became the 44th and current  अध्यक्ष   .
On  नवम्बर   6   ,   2012   ,   he  was re-elected  और   is   अनुसूचित  to serve until January 20 ,  2017   .
होश  are physiological  capacities   of   जीवों   कि   provide   आंकड़ा  for perception  .
The senses  और   उनके  operation ,  वर्गीकरण   ,  and  सिद्धान्त   हैं   अतिव्यापी   विषय   पढ़ाई  by a variety of  फ़ील्ड   ,   सबसे   notably   neuroscience  , cognitive psychology ( or cognitive  विज्ञान  ) ,  और  philosophy of perception .
The  बेचैन  system  रै  a specific  संवेदी   प्रणाली  or organ  ,   समर्पित  to each sense  .
इंसानो   have   a  multitude of  होश  .
Sight (  ophthalmoception  )  ,  hearing  (   audioception   )  , taste  (  gustaoception ) , smell ( olfacoception or  olfacception  ) ,  और  touch  (  tactioception  )   हैं  the  पाँच  traditionally  पहचाना  .
While  the   क्षमता  to  detect   अन्य  stimuli  परे   those  governed  by  the  परंपरागत   होश   exists   ,   सहित  temperature (  thermoception   )   ,   kinesthetic  sense (  proprioception   )  , pain  (  nociception ) , balance ( equilibrioception ) , acceleration (  kinesthesioception  ) ,  और  various internal stimuli (  e.g  . the different chemoreceptors for detecting  नमक  and carbon  डाइऑक्साइड   एकाग्रता   in  the  रक्त   )  ,  तभी  a small  क्रमांक   of  these  can  safely  be  classified  as   पृथक   होश  in and  of   themselves  .
कया  constitutes a sense is  a   पदार्थ  of some  बहस  , leading  to  difficulties in defining what exactly  a   भाव  is  .
पशु  also have  receptors  to  भाव   the  world  around  them  ,   साथ  degrees  of  capability varying greatly  between  species .
Humans have  a   comparatively  weak  भाव   of   महकते  ,  जबकि  some  पशु   may   कमी  one or  अधिक  of the  परंपरागत   पाँच  senses  .
कुछ   पशु  may also intake and  interpret   संवेदी   stimuli   in  very different  तरीके  .
कुछ   प्रजाति  of animals are  समर्थ  to  भाव   the  world in  a   रास्ता  that  इंसानो  can not ,  साथ   कुछ  species able to  भाव  electrical and  चुम्बकीय  fields , and  detect   जल  pressure  और  currents .
मकड़ियों   (   अनुक्रम  Araneae ) are  air-breathing  arthropods that  have   आठ   टाँगे   और  chelicerae with  fangs   कि  inject venom .
They are  the  largest  अनुक्रम   of   arachnids   और   रैंक  seventh in total  प्रजाति   विविधता  among all other groups of organisms  .
मकड़ियों  are found worldwide on every continent  मगर   लिये   अंटार्कटिक   ,   और  have  become   स्थापित  in nearly every  आवास  with the exception of air and  समुद्र  colonization .
As  of   2008  , at least 43,678 spider species ,  और   109  families have  महरूम  recorded  by   taxonomists  ;  however  , there  रै  been confusion within the  वैज्ञानिक  community as to how  सब   ये  families should be  वर्गीकृत  , as evidenced by the  over  20 different  classifications  that  have   महरूम  proposed since  1900  .
Anatomically ,  मकड़ियों  differ  इससे   अन्य   arthropods  in that  the   usual   देह  segments  हैं  fused  into  two  tagmata  , the cephalothorax  और   उदर   ,   और  joined  by   a  small ,  बेलनाकार   pedicel   .
Unlike insects  ,   मकड़ियों  do not have antennae  .
in   सब  except  the  most primitive  समूह  , the  mesothelae   ,  spiders  have  the most centralized nervous  प्रणालियों   of  all arthropods ,  as  all  उनके   ganglia  are fused  into  one mass in  the  cephalothorax .
Unlike  सबसे  arthropods  ,  spiders have no  extensor   मांसपेशियां   in  their limbs  और  instead extend them  by   हाइड्रोलिक  pressure .
Their  abdomens  bear appendages that have been  परिवर्धित  into spinnerets  कि   extrude  silk  इससे   up  to six  प्रकार   of  silk glands within their abdomen  .
Spider  webs  vary widely  in  size  ,  shape  और  the amount of sticky thread  प्रयुक्त   .
It  अभी   appears   कि   the   सर्पिल  orb  वेब   may   be   एक  of  the   earliest  forms  ,  and  मकड़ियों  that  उपज  tangled cobwebs are  अधिक  abundant  और  diverse  than   orb-web   मकड़ियों  .
spider-like   arachnids  with  silk-producing   spigots  appeared  in  the Devonian period about ,  लकिन   ये  animals  जाहिर  lacked spinnerets .
True  मकड़ियों   have   महरूम  found  in  Carboniferous  रॉक्स   इससे  , and are very similar to the  सबसे  primitive surviving order , the Mesothelae .
the   प्रमुख   समूह   of  modern  मकड़ियों  ,  mygalomorphae   और   araneomorphae  ,  पहला  appeared in  the  Triassic  काल   ,   पहले  .
a   herbivorous   प्रजाति  ,  bagheera   kiplingi   ,  was described in  2008   ,   लकिन   सब   अन्य  known  प्रजाति   हैं  predators , mostly  preying   on   कीट  and on other spiders , although a few  विशाल  species  भी   लो   पक्षियों  and lizards .
Spiders  उपयोग   a   चौड़ी  range of strategies  to  capture  शिकार   :   trapping   it   in   स्टिकी  webs ,  lassoing   it   साथ   स्टिकी   bolas  ,  mimicking  the  शिकार   to  avoid  डिटेक्शन  , or running it down  .
Most  detect  prey mainly by sensing vibrations , but the  क्रियाशील  hunters have acute  दृष्टि   ,  and  hunters   of   the   genus   portia  show signs  of   प्रज्ञा  in their choice of tactics  और  ability  to  develop new ones .
मकड़ियों  ' guts  हैं  too narrow to take solids , and they liquidize  उनके   खाना  by flooding it with digestive enzymes  और  grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps ,  as   वे   do  not  have   सच्चा  jaws  .
Male spiders  पहचानो   themselves  by a variety of  जटिल  courtship rituals  to  avoid being  खाया  by  the   महिलाओं  .
males  of  सबसे   प्रजाति   जीवित  a  few   matings   ,   सीमित   मुख्यतः   by  their  छोटी  life  spans   .
Females weave silk egg-cases ,  प्रत्येक  of  जिससे  may  contain  hundreds of  अंडे  .
महिलाओं  of many species  परवाह  for  उनके  young , for example  by  carrying them around or by sharing  खाना  with them  .
A minority of species are social  ,   भवन  communal  webs   कि  may house  anywhere  from a  few   to  50,000 individuals .
सोशल   बर्ताव   सीमाएँ  from  precarious  toleration  ,   as   in  the widow  मकड़ियों  , to  co-operative   शिकार   और  food-sharing  .
हालांकि   सबसे   मकड़ियों  live  लिये  at  सबसे  two  सालो   ,  tarantulas and other  mygalomorph   मकड़ियों   can  live  up  to 25 years in captivity .
While  the  venom of a few species is dangerous  to  humans , scientists are  अभी  researching  the  use of  मकड़ी  venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides .
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness  ,  strength and  लोच  that  is  superior to  कि   of  synthetic materials ,  और   मकड़ी   रेशा  genes  have  been inserted  into  mammals and plants to see  if  these can be used  as   रेशा   कारखानों  .
as   a   परिणाम  of their wide range  of  behaviors ,  मकड़ियों  have become  आम  symbols  in   आर्ट  and  mythology   symbolizing   विभिन्न   combinations  of patience , cruelty and creative powers .
Grey  's  Anatomy  is  an American  टेलीविज़न  medical drama  कि  premiered on  the   अमरीकी   प्रसारण   कम्पनी   (   एबीसी  ) , as a mid-season replacement on  कूच  27 ,  2005  .
the  series  रै   aired  nine seasons  ,   और   focuses  on  the   fictional   जीवनदान   of  surgical  interns  and residents  as  they gradually evolve  into  seasoned  डॉक्टर  ,  जबकि   trying  to  maintain  personal lives .
the   दिखाएँ  's  आधार  originated with Shonda Rhimes  ,  who  serves   as   an  executive  निर्माता  , along  साथ  Betsy Beers , Mark Gordon  ,  Krista Vernoff , Rob Corn , Mark Wilding ,  और  Allan Heinberg .
the   श्रेणी  was created to  be  racially diverse  ,  utilizing a  color-blind  casting technique .
it   is  primarily  फिल्माया   in   लॉस  Angeles ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
the  series  '   समर्थक   is  Dr.  मेरेडिथ   धूसर  (  एलेन  Pompeo )  ,   जो   originally  is accepted  into  the residency program at the fictional Seattle  अनुग्रह  Hospital .
Meredith is assigned  to  work  अंतर्गत  Dr.  मिरांडा  Bailey  (  Chandra  विल्सन   )   ,  along  साथ  Dr.  क्रिस्टीना   यांग   (   सैंड्रा  Oh  )  ,  dr.   जार्ज   o'malley   (  T. R.  नाईट   )   ,   dr.  Izzie Stevens ( Katherine  heigl   )  ,  और   dr.  Alex Karev ( Justin  कक्षों   )   .
Following O'Malley 's death and Stevens '  प्रस्थान  ,  the  hospital  's   विलय  with  रहमत   वेस्ट  brings  in  Dr. Jackson Avery ( Jesse  विलियम्स  ) and  dr.   अप्रैल  Kepner  (  Sarah Drew )  ,   in   the   छठे  season  .
The surgical wing  is  primarily supervised by  dr.  Richard  webber   (  James  pickens  ,  jr.   )  ,  जो  is eventually  replaced  by  dr.   डेरेक  Shepherd  (  Patrick  डेम्पसे  )  ,  and  बाद   dr.  Owen  हंट   (  Kevin  mckidd  )  .
dr.  Preston Burke  (  Isaiah  वॉशिंगटन  )  प्रस्थान  at  the  conclusion of  the   तीसरा  season ,  और  is replaced by Dr. Erica  hahn  (  ब्रुक  Smith  )  , who  पत्ते  the show during  the  fifth season , and later  dr.  Teddy  altman  ( Kim Raver )  ,  who  प्रस्थान   at  the  समाप्त  of  the  eighth  ऋतु   .
introduced   in  the second season  is  Dr. Addison Montgomery  (   केट   वाल्श   )   ,  who  पत्ते   the   दिखाएँ  at  the  end  of  the third  ऋतु  , in order to  लॉन्च  her own  spin-off  medical  नाटक  Private Practice  .
Dr. Callie Torres (  सारा  Ramirez )  और   dr.  Mark Sloan  (   eric   डेन   )   भी  enter the show in the second  ऋतु   ,  while the  latter  dies in the  प्रीमियर   of  the ninth  ऋतु  .
Meredith 's  half-sister   ,   dr.   lexie   धूसर   (  Chyler Leigh )  ,  appears from season  तीन   और   मरता  at the end  of  season eight .
Dr. Arizona  रॉबिन्स  (  जेसिका  Capshaw  )   is  given  श्रेणी  regular status at the beginning  of  the  छठे   ऋतु  .
Grey  's  Anatomy is the highest-rated drama in  the  key 18–49  जनसांख्यिकी   .
Previously  among   the   overall   top-ten  rated  shows  in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  धूसर  's  anatomy   रै   महरूम  well received by critics  .
Considered an impact on culture , the series has received  numerous   पुरस्कार  ,  और   रै   भी   महरूम  included in  विभिन्न  critics  '  top ten lists .
the  show  रै   उत्पादित   अनेक  specials  ,   as   खूब  as distributed  सब  seasons to DVD  ,  and released a collection  of  merchandise  .
in  2012  ,   धूसर   's   anatomy  was named the fifth-highest  आय  earning  दिखाएँ  , in terms  of  advertising per half-hour .
On  may  11 , 2012 ,  the  series  थी  renewed for  a  ninth season , which  premiered   on  September  27  , 2012  .
Schizophrenia  (  or  )  is a  दिमागी  disorder characterized by  a   विश्लेषण  of  विचार  processes  और  by  a  deficit  of  typical emotional  प्रतिक्रियाएँ   .
Common symptoms  शामिल   auditory  hallucinations  ,  paranoid or bizarre delusions , or disorganized speech  और   सोच  , and it  is  accompanied by significant social or  occupational   dysfunction   .
the  onset of  लक्षण   typically   occurs   in  young adulthood , with a  वैश्विक   आजीवन  prevalence  of  about  0.3–0.7   %   .
निदान  is based  on   observed   बर्ताव  and the patient  's  reported experiences  .
Genetics  ,   जल्दी  environment , neurobiology , and psychological  और   सोशल   प्रक्रियाओं   appear  to  be  important  contributory   कारकों   ;  some recreational  और  prescription  दवाएँ  appear  to  cause or worsen symptoms .
Current research  is   केन्द्रित   on  the role  of   neurobiology   ,  although no single isolated organic cause has been  मिला   .
The many possible combinations of symptoms have triggered debate  परिचय  whether the  निदान  represents  a  single  विकार   or  a  क्रमांक  of  अलहदा   syndromes   .
despite   the   etymology  of  the  term from  the   यूनानी  roots  skhizein  (  σχίζειν  , ``  to  split  ''   )  and phrēn  ,  phren- (  φρήν  ,  φρεν-  ; `` mind ''  )  , schizophrenia  करता  not imply a `` split  व्यक्तित्व  '' ,  or  `` multiple  व्यक्तित्व  disorder ''  (  which  is  known these days as dissociative  पहचान   विकार  )  —a   कंडीशन  with which it is often confused  in   पब्लिक  perception .
Rather , the term  अर्थात्   a  `` splitting of  दिमागी  functions  ''  , because  of  the symptomatic  प्रस्तुतीकरण   of   the  illness  .
the   mainstay  of treatment is  antipsychotic  medication  ,  which primarily suppresses dopamine  (  and sometimes serotonin  )  receptor activity .
मनोचिकित्सा  and  वोकेशनल  and social  पुनर्वास   हैं  also  महत्वपूर्ण  in treatment  .
In more serious  cases—where   वहीँ  is  रिस्क  to self  और   others—   involuntary  hospitalization  may  be  जरुरी   ,  although  हॉस्पिटल  stays are  अभी  shorter  और  less  बारंबार  than they once  यहूद   .
The disorder is thought  मुख्यतः   to  affect  संज्ञान  , but it  भी   प्रायः  contributes  to  chronic  समस्याएं  with behavior and  जज्बात  .
People  साथ  schizophrenia are likely to have additional ( comorbid )  शर्तें   ,  including major  अवसाद  and anxiety disorders  ;  the lifetime  occurrence   of  substance use disorder  is   लगभग   50   %  .
सोशल   समस्याएं  , such  as  long-term unemployment , poverty , and  homelessness  are common .
The average life  प्रत्याशा  of people  साथ  the  विकार   is   12  to 15 years less  than  those  बगैर  , the  परिणाम  of  increased   शारीरिक  health  समस्याएं   और   a   उच्चतर  suicide  रेट   (  about 5 %  )  .
पॉल  Leslie Snider ( April 15  ,   1951–august  14 ,  1980  ) was  the  estranged husband and  मैनेजर  of Playboy model Dorothy Stratten ,  जिसको  he  murdered   पहले  killing himself  the  same day .
The  एपिक   of   gilgamesh   ,  an  एपिक   कविता  from Mesopotamia , is  amongst  the  earliest   surviving  works of literature .
the  literary history  of  Gilgamesh  begins  with five  स्वतंत्र  Sumerian poems  परिचय  'Bilgamesh ' (  sumerian  for Gilgamesh )  ,   किंग  of Uruk  .
चार   of  these were  प्रयुक्त   as   सोर्स   सामग्री  for a  संयुक्त  epic in  अक्कादी  .
This  पहला  combined  एपिक   ,  known as  the  `` Old  babylonian  '' version  ,  dates to the  18th   सदी  BC  और  is titled after  इसके  incipit  ,  Shūtur  एली  sharrī ( `` Surpassing  सब  Other  किंग्स   ''  )  .
Only  a  few  fragments   of  it have survived .
the   बाद   ``  Standard  babylonian  '' version  तिथियाँ  from the 13th  to   the   10th  centuries BC  और   bears  the  incipit  Sha  naqba   īmuru   (   ``   he   जो   देखी  the Deep  ''  ) .
fragments   of  approximately two thirds  of   इस  longer , twelve-tablet  संस्करण  have been recovered .
कुछ   of  the  बेहतरीन  copies  यहूद   खोजा   in   the  library ruins of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal .
the  story  centers  on a friendship between Gilgamesh  और  Enkidu .
Enkidu is  a  wild man  निर्मित   by  the gods as Gilgamesh  's  equal to  distract  him from oppressing  the   लोगों  of Uruk  .
साथ  ,  वे  journey to the Cedar  पहाड़  to defeat Humbaba ,  इसके  monstrous guardian .
Later they kill  the   सांड   of   स्वर्ग  , which the goddess Ishtar sends to punish  gilgamesh   लिये  spurning  उसके  advances .
As  a  punishment  लिये  these actions , the gods sentence Enkidu to death .
The second half  of   the  epic focuses  on  Gilgamesh 's distress at  enkidu  's  मौत  ,  और  his quest  लिये  immortality  .
In  अनुक्रम  to  सीख   the  secret  of   अनन्त  life  ,  Gilgamesh undertakes  a   long   और  perilous journey .
He  learns  that `` The life that you are seeking you  होगा  never find  .
When the gods created man they  आवंटित  to  उसे   मौत  ,  लकिन  life  वे  retained in  उनके  own  keeping   .  ''
This quote  थी  originally  attributed  to Siduri  in  the  बूढ़ा  Babylonian  संस्करण   of   the  epic  ,   और  then attributed to  the  immortal  बाढ़   नायिका   utnapishtim  in the Akkadian version  of  the epic .
Nevertheless , Gilgamesh  's   कीर्ति  lived on  बाद   उसके   मौत   ,   क्युकी  of  उसके   ग्रेट  building projects  ,  and  उसके  account of  कया   utnapishtim  told  उसे  happened during the flood .
The  स्टोरी   रै   महरूम  translated into  अनेक   अलग   भाषाएं   ,  and  gilgamesh   रै   चूंकि   become  adapted  in   works  of  लोकप्रिय   fiction   .
A eukaryote ( or  )   is   an   सजीव  whose  कोशिकाएं  contain complex  structures   enclosed   भीतर  membranes  .
Eukaryotes may more formally be referred  to  as  the   टैक्सोन  Eukarya or  eukaryota  .
The defining membrane-bound structure  कि  sets  eukaryotic  cells  अलावा  from prokaryotic cells  is   the  nucleus  ,   or  nuclear envelope ,  भीतर   जिससे   the   जेनेटिक   सामग्री  is carried .
The presence of a nucleus  देता  eukaryotes  उनके   नाम  ,  जिससे   आता  from the  यूनानी  (  eu   ,   ``  good '' )  और  (  karyon  ,  ``  nut  ''   or  ``  कर्नेल  '' )  .
Most eukaryotic cells  भी  contain other membrane-bound  organelles  such as mitochondria , chloroplasts and  the  Golgi apparatus .
सब   विशाल  complex organisms  हैं   eukaryotes  , including  पशु   ,   पौधे  and fungi  .
The group  भी  includes many  एककोशिकीय  organisms .
Cell division  in  eukaryotes is different  इससे   कि  in organisms without  a   केंद्रक   (   prokaryote  )  .
it   involves  separating the duplicated  गुणसूत्रों  ,  through  movements directed  by  microtubules .
वहीँ   हैं  two  प्रकार   of  division processes .
in  mitosis , one cell  divides  to produce two genetically identical cells  .
In meiosis  ,  which  is   जरूरी  in sexual reproduction  ,  one diploid cell ( having two instances of  प्रत्येक  chromosome  ,  one from each parent  )  undergoes recombination of each pair  of   parental  chromosomes  ,   और   तब  two  चरण  of  कोशिका  division  ,  resulting  in  four haploid  कोशिकाएं   (   गैमीट  )  .
प्रत्येक   gamete   रै  just one  पूरक  of  गुणसूत्रों  , each a unique mix of the  सम्बन्धित  pair of parental chromosomes .
Eukaryota  appears   to  be monophyletic  ,  and so makes  up  one  of  the three domains  of  life  .
the  two  अन्य  domains  ,  Bacteria  और  Archaea ,  हैं   prokaryotes  and have none of  the  above features .
eukaryotes   represent  a  छोटा   अल्पसंख्यक  of  सब  living things ;  भी  in a human body  वहीँ   हैं   10  times more microbes than  इंसान   कोशिकाएं  .
however  , due to  उनके  much larger  आकार  their  सामूहिक  worldwide biomass is estimated at  परिचय   बराबर   to   कि  of prokaryotes .
वे   हैं   माना   to  have  पहला   विकसित  approximately 1.6–2.1 billion  सालो  ago  .
The use of Internet  सेवाएं  or  तन्त्र  with  अंतरजाल  access to  defraud  victims  or  to otherwise  लो   लाभ  of  उन्हें  , for example  by  stealing personal information  ,  which  can  even lead to identity  चोरी  .
a  very common form of  अंतरजाल  fraud is the distribution of  दुष्ट  security  तन्त्र  .
अंतरजाल  services can be used to present  बेईमान   solicitations   to  prospective  पीड़ितों  , to  conduct  fraudulent transactions , or to  संचारण   the  proceeds of fraud  to  financial institutions  or   to   अन्य  connected with  the   योजना  .
अंतरजाल   धोखाधड़ी  can occur in  गपशप   कक्ष   ,   ईमेल  , message boards , or  on  websites .
The International  सुरक्षा  Assistance  फ़ोर्स  ( ISAF ) is a  नाटो  -led  सुरक्षा   मिशन   in   अफगानिस्तान   कि  was established by the  संयुक्त   राष्ट्र  Security Council in  दिसम्बर   2001  by  रेज़ोल्यूशन  1386  ,   as   envisaged  by the Bonn Agreement  .
इसके   प्रमुख  purpose  is  to train the  अफगान   नेशनल   सुरक्षा  Forces  (  ANSF ) and assist Afghanistan in  पुनर्निर्माण  key government  संस्थानों   लकिन  is also  सगाई  in the  2001-present  war with  बागी   समूह  .
isaf   थी   initially  charged with securing Kabul  और   surrounding   क्षेत्रों  from the Taliban ,  al   qaeda   और  factional warlords , so as to  allow   लिये  the  स्थापना  of  the  Afghan Transitional  प्रशासन  headed  by   हामिद  Karzai  .
in  October 2003 , the UN Security Council  प्राधिकृत   the   विस्तार   of   the   isaf  mission  throughout   अफगानिस्तान  ,  और  ISAF  subsequently   विस्तारित   the   मिशन  in four  प्रमुख   चरण   over  the  पूरे  of the country .
इससे  2006 to 2011 ,  isaf  had been involved  in  increasingly more intensive combat operations  in  southern and  पूर्वी  Afghanistan  .
Troop contributors include from the United States , United Kingdom ,  नाटो  member states and  a  number of  अन्य  countries .
the  intensity of  the   कॉम्बैट  faced by contributing  राष्ट्र  varies greatly  ,   साथ   the   संयुक्त  States ,  संयुक्त  Kingdom , and Canada sustaining  the  majority  of   हताहत  in  intensive   कॉम्बैट  operations , with  अन्य   योगदानकर्ता   sustaining   significantly  less .
As  of  early  2010  , there were at least  700   सैन्य   bases  inside Afghanistan but  अधिक  were expected to be built in  the  coming years .
About 400  of  these  यहूद   प्रयुक्त  by American‐led NATO  शक्तियां   और   300  by  ansf   .
Cocaine (  benzoylmethylecgonine  ) (  इन  ) is a crystalline tropane alkaloid  कि   is  obtained  इससे  the leaves of  the  coca plant .
the   नाम   आता   इससे  ``  कोका   ''  and the alkaloid  प्रत्यय   -ine  , forming  कोका   .
It is a stimulant ,  an  appetite suppressant ,  और   a  topical  anesthetic   .
biologically  , cocaine  अधिनियमों   as  a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine  reuptake   inhibitor  ,  भी   ज्ञात  as  a  triple reuptake  inhibitor  ( TRI  )   .
It is  addictive  because of  इसके  effect  on  the  mesolimbic  reward  pathway   .
नापसंद   सबसे   अणुओं  ,  कोका  has pockets with  दोनो   ऊँची   hydrophilic   और   lipophilic  efficiency , violating  the  rule of  hydrophilic-lipophilic  balance .
This causes it to cross  the  blood–brain  अवरोध  far better than  अन्य  psychoactive chemicals and may even  induce  blood-brain  अवरोध   विश्लेषण   .
It is illegal to possess ,  उपज  , or distribute  कोका   लिये  non-medicinal and  non-government-sanctioned   उद्देश्य  in almost  प्रत्येक  country .
Whole  बीफ   tri-tip   rump  ,  roasted  medium  विरल
The  tri-tip  is a cut  of  beef from the bottom sirloin primal cut  .
it  is a  छोटी   triangular   मांसपेशी  , usually  1.5  to 2.5 lbs  .  (  675  to 1,150g )  प्रति   पक्ष  of beef .
The scientific  नाम  of this  मांसपेशी   is  tensor fasciae  latae   ,   inserted  in  the   fascia  lata , the connective tissue covering  the  quadriceps femoris , also called  quadriceps   extensor   ,  a  समूह  of four muscles which  in  turn insert in  the  patella ,  or  knee cap of  the   एनिमल   .
Willmar  is  a  नगर  in  ,  and the  काउंटी  seat  of  , Kandiyohi County  ,   मिनेसोटा  ,  संयुक्त  States  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was  19,610  at  the   2010  census .
Willmar has been  आबंटित  ZIP code 56201 by  the   संयुक्त  States Postal Service .
U.S . Routes  12   और  71  और  Minnesota State Highways 23 and 40 are  चार   of  the main routes  in  the city .
the  Speaker of the  संयुक्त  States House of  प्रतिनिधि  ( or Speaker of the  हाउस   )  is the presiding officer of the  कक्ष  .
the   दफ्तर   थी   स्थापित   in  1789 by Article I  ,  Section 2 of the United  राज्य  Constitution , which states in  भाग   ,   ``  The  हाउस  of  प्रतिनिधि   shall   chuse   उनके   स्पीकर  ...  ''
the   वर्तमान  Speaker is John Boehner , a  रिपब्लिकन   जो   represents   ओहियो  's  8th  congressional district .
The Constitution  करता  not  आवश्यकता   कि  the Speaker be a  सदस्य  of Congress ,  लकिन  no  non-member   रै  ever been elected to the office  .
The Speaker is second in  the   संयुक्त  States presidential  लकीर  of  उत्तराधिकार  , after  the  Vice President  और  ahead  of  the President pro  tempore   of  the U.S.  सीनेट   .
Unlike  कुछ  Westminster system parliaments  ,   in  which  the  office of  स्पीकर   is   माना   non-partisan   ,   in  the  संयुक्त  States the  स्पीकर  of the House  is  a leadership  स्थिति  and the  office-holder  actively works  to  set  the   बहुमत   पार्टी   's  legislative agenda .
The Speaker usually does not personally preside over debates  ,  instead delegating  the   ड्यूटी   to  members  of  the  हाउस   इससे   the  majority  पार्टी  .
Aside from duties relating to heading the House and the majority political party ,  the  Speaker  भी   performs   प्रशासनिक   और   प्रक्रियात्मक  functions  ,   और  represents his or  उसके  Congressional district .
A bicycle  फ़्रेम  is the main component of  a   सायकिल  ,  on  to which wheels  और  other components  हैं  fitted  .
the  modern and most common  फ़्रेम  design  लिये  an upright  सायकिल   is   आधारित  on the safety bicycle , and  consists   of   दो  triangles ,  a  main  त्रिभुज   और  a  युग्म  rear triangle  .
इस   is  known  as  the diamond frame .
Frames  हैं  required  to  be strong ,  stiff   और   लाइट  , which they do by  combining  different  सामग्री  and shapes .
``  सरल  gravity pendulum '' model assumes no friction or air resistance  .
an  exemplar animation  of  a pendulum showing the  गति  and  त्वरण  vectors
A pendulum  is   a   वज़न  suspended from a  so   कि   it  can swing freely .
जब  a  लोलक  is displaced sideways from  इसके   resting  equilibrium position  ,   it   is   विषय   to  a  restoring  force due to  गम्भीरता  that will  accelerate  it  वापस   toward  the  संतुलन  position  .
When  released  ,  the   restoring   फ़ोर्स  combined with the pendulum 's mass causes it  to  oscillate  परिचय  the equilibrium  स्थिति  ,  सुहाने  back and  forth  .
the  time for one  पूरा   साईकिल  ,  a  left swing and a right swing ,  is  called the  काल  .
a  pendulum  swings  with a  विशिष्ट  period  जिससे  depends (  मुख्यतः   )   on   इसके   लंबाई   .
इससे   इसके  discovery  around  1602 by  गैलीलियो   गैलिली  the regular motion of pendulums was  प्रयुक्त   लिये  timekeeping ,  और   थी   the  world  's   सबसे   सटीक  timekeeping technology until the 1930s  .
Pendulums  हैं  used to regulate pendulum clocks  ,  and  हैं  used  in   वैज्ञानिक  instruments such as accelerometers  और  seismometers  .
Historically they  यहूद  used  as   gravimeters   to  measure the acceleration  of  gravity  in  geophysical  सर्वेक्षण   ,  and even as  a   मानक  of length  .
The word 'pendulum  '  is  नई   लैटिन  , from  the  Latin  pendulus   ,  meaning 'hanging '  .
the  simple  गम्भीरता  pendulum is  an  idealized  गणितीय  model of a pendulum  .
This is a weight  (  or bob )  on  the  समाप्त  of a massless  cord  suspended from  a  , without  घर्षण   .
When given an initial push , it will  झूले  back and forth at a  निरंतर  amplitude .
रियल  pendulums  हैं  subject to  घर्षण  and  एयर   खीचें  ,  so  the  आयाम   of   उनके  swings declines  .
the  First  बैटल  of Bull  चलाएं  ,  भी   ज्ञात   as   पहला  Manassas (  the   नाम  used  by  Confederate  शक्तियां  )  ,   थी   लड़ा   on   जुलाई  21  ,  1861 , in Prince  विलियम  County  ,  Virginia ,  निकट   the   नगर  of  manassas  .
It  थी  the  पहला  major  जमीन  battle of the American Civil War .
Just  महीने  after the start of the  युद्ध  at  फोर्ट  Sumter ,  the  Northern public clamored for a march against  the  Confederate  पूंजी   of  Richmond ,  वर्जिनिया  , which they  अपेक्षित  to  लाओ  an early end  to   the  rebellion .
yielding  to  राजनैतिक   दबाव   ,   ब्रिगेडियर  . Gen. Irvin McDowell  led   उसके   unseasoned  Union Army across  सांड   चलाएं  against  the  equally inexperienced Confederate  फौज   of  Brig .  gen.  P.  G.   T.  Beauregard camped  निकट  Manassas Junction .
McDowell 's ambitious  योजना  for  a   आश्चर्य   पार्श्व   आक्रमण   on  the  confederate   बाएँ  was poorly executed by  उसके   अधिकारियों  and  मेन   ;   nevertheless  , the Confederates , who  था  been  नियोजन  to  आक्रमण   the   संघ  left  पार्श्व  , found themselves at  an  initial disadvantage .
confederate   सुदृढीकरण   अंतर्गत   ब्रिगेडियर   .  Gen. Joseph  E.  Johnston arrived from the Shenandoah  घाटी  by railroad  और  the  कोर्स  of the  बैटल   जल्दी  changed  .
a   ब्रिगेड   of  Virginians under  a  relatively unknown  कर्नल   इससे  the Virginia Military  संस्थान  ,  थामस   J.   जैक्सन  ,  stood  their ground  और   जैक्सन  received his  प्रसिद्ध  nickname , `` Stonewall  जैक्सन  '' .
the   confederates   तब  launched  a  strong  counterattack  ,  और  as  the   संघ  troops began  withdrawing   अंतर्गत  fire , many panicked and  it   turned  into  a   rout  as McDowell 's  मेन  frantically ran without  अनुक्रम  in  the   दिशा   of  Washington , D.C .
Both  सेना  were  sobered  by the  fierce   लड़  and many  हताहत   ,  and realized the war  थी   going   to  be  much  longer and bloodier  than  either  था  anticipated  .
अंधड़  near Garajau ,  madeira
मौसम   is   the   राज्य  of  the   माहौल  , to the degree  कि  it is hot or cold  ,   गीला   or  dry  ,   शांत  or stormy  ,  clear or  cloudy   .
Most  मौसम   phenomena  occur  in  the troposphere ,  बस  below the  stratosphere  .
Weather generally refers  to  day-to-day  तापमान   और  precipitation  कार्यकलाप  , whereas climate is the term  लिये   the   औसत   वायुमंडलीय  conditions  over  longer periods of  समय  .
When used  बगैर  qualification , ``  मौसम   ''  is understood to  be  the weather of Earth .
मौसम  is  चलित   by  air  दबाव   (  temperature  और  moisture )  मतभेद  between  एक  place  और   another   .
ये  pressure and  तापमान   मतभेद  can occur due  to  the sun  कोण   at   कोई   particular   स्पॉट   ,  which  varies  by latitude  इससे   the   ऊष्णकटिबन्ध  .
The  दमदार  temperature contrast between  ध्रुवीय  and  तीव्र   एयर   देता   वृद्धि   to  the jet stream .
Weather systems  in   the   mid-latitudes  ,  ऐसे   as  extratropical  cyclones  , are caused by instabilities  of  the  जेट  stream flow .
क्युकी   the   धरती   's  axis is  tilted  relative to its orbital plane  ,   धूप  is  घटना  at different  कोण  at different  टाइम्स  of the  साल  .
On  धरती  's  सतह   ,  temperatures  प्रायः   दायरा   ±40  °C (  −40  °F to 100  °f  ) annually .
Over thousands  of  years  ,  changes in Earth 's  कक्षा   affect  the amount  और   वितरण  of solar  उर्जा  received by the Earth  और  influence long-term climate and  वैश्विक  climate change  .
Surface temperature differences  in   फेरे   कारण  pressure  मतभेद  .
उच्चतर  altitudes are  कूलर   than  lower altitudes due  to  differences  in  compressional heating .
Weather  forecasting  is the  अनुप्रयोग  of science and  प्रौद्योगिकी  to predict the  राज्य  of the atmosphere for a future  समय  and a given location  .
The atmosphere is a chaotic  प्रणाली   ,  so small changes to one  भाग  of the  प्रणाली  can  grow   to   have  large effects on  the   प्रणाली  as  a   पूरे   .
Human attempts  to   कंट्रोल  the weather have occurred  throughout  human history  ,  and  वहीँ   is  evidence  कि  human  कार्यकलाप  such  as   कृषि  and  उद्योग  has  inadvertently   परिवर्धित  weather  पैटर्न   .
अध्ययन   कैसा   the  weather works on other planets  रै  been helpful  in   समझना  how weather works on Earth .
A famous landmark in the Solar System ,  बृहस्पति  's  ग्रेट   रेड  Spot  ,  is  an  anticyclonic  तूफ़ान  known  to   have  existed for at least  300   सालो  .
however   ,   मौसम  is not limited  to  planetary bodies .
a  star  's  corona is  constantly   होने   खोया  to  स्पेस   ,  creating what is essentially a very thin atmosphere throughout  the  Solar  प्रणाली   .
The movement of mass ejected  इससे   the  Sun is  ज्ञात   as  the  सौर  wind .
Katy Perry is  an  American  singer-songwriter  from Santa  बारबरा  ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
She signed  साथ  Capitol Records  .
Perry  रै   released   तीन   स्टुडियो  albums , including her  डेब्यू  Christian  प्रयत्न  Katy  हडसन  ,  एक   of  the  लड़कों  ,  और   teenage  Dream  .
Perry 's  मुख्यधारा  career  थी   kicked  off  साथ  the  विशाल   चार्ट  success of  उसके  debut single `` I Kissed a Girl ``  .
दौरान   उसके  career , Perry  रै  been  मनोनीत   लिये   numerous   प्रमुख  music  पुरस्कार   ,  primarily  लिये  Teenage  सपना  and One  of  the Boys .
The following  is   a   सूची   of  sovereign states and territories where English  is  an official  भाषा   or  language of government  .
In 2012  ,  there were  88   राज्य   in  total (  60  sovereign  राज्य   और  28 non-sovereign states )  .
In  अनेक  countries English is  the   प्रबल  language , but  करता  not  have  official status .
In Australia ,  अंग्रेज़ी   is  spoken by the vast  बहुमत  of the population  और   is   the  only  भाषा   प्रयुक्त  in  सरकारी  institutions , but Australia does not  have  an official language .
the   मामला  is the  वही  in the United  किंगडम  and the  संयुक्त  States ,  हालांकि  many  राज्य  and  regions  within  the  U.S. do have  अंग्रेज़ी  as  an  official language .
English is  the   प्रबल  language of New Zealand  और   an   आधिकारिक  language  of   कनाडा   (  along  साथ  French ) , India ( along with  हिंदी   और  several other  भाषाएं  ) , Ireland (  साथ  with Irish  )   ,   और  the Philippines (  साथ  with Tagalog  )   .
English  is  the  एकमात्र  official language of the Commonwealth  of   राष्ट्र   और  the Commonwealth Games .
English  is  one of  the   आधिकारिक  languages of the  संयुक्त   राष्ट्र   ,   the   यूरोपीय   संघ   और  the International  ओलम्पिक  Committee  .
अनेक   of  these countries  हैं   वर्तमान   or  former colonies or dependencies of  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom (  देखिए   भी   अंग्रेजों   साम्राज्य   )  , or of the United States , itself a former colony of the UK .
notable  exceptions include Rwanda  ,   जिससे   थी  a former Belgian colony  और   इरित्रिया   ,  which was  an  Italian colony where  the   अंग्रेजों  Empire  spanned   इसके  control only  in   संसार  War  ii   और   shortly   बाद  ( 1941-1952  )  .
India  's  linguistic  चित्र   is   जटिल  .
according   to  the  संविधान  of India ,  ``  Hindi  in   the   देवनागरी  script  ''  is the official  भाषा   of  the union ; and English the 'subsidiary official language '  ;  however  ,   अंग्रेज़ी   is  mandated  लिये  the authoritative texts of all federal  कानून  and  परम्  Court  निर्णय   और   (   साथ  with  हिंदी   )   is  one of the two languages of the Indian Parliament .
English is  प्रयुक्त   लगभग  exclusively  लिये   उच्चतर   शिक्षा  ,  कारोबार   और  science .
Courses  in   बहुमत   of  the schools are taught  exclusively  in English .
अंग्रेज़ी   is  extensively used  लिये  administrative  उद्देश्य   in  India .
India is  the  second-largest English-speaking country in the  संसार  by number  of   अध्यक्षों  , after the United States .
As  ऐसे  , many consider English  to   be  the de  facto   आधिकारिक  language of  इण्डिया  .
See  आधिकारिक  languages  of   इण्डिया   .
The linguistic makeup of Pakistan  is  similarly  जटिल  .
While the national language  is  Urdu  ,   अंग्रेज़ी  is an  आधिकारिक   भाषा  and used in business ,  सरकारी  and law .
English is a  अनिवार्य  language in  स्कूलों   .
All school courses  हैं  taught  in   अंग्रेज़ी  .
Pakistan is the 9th largest English-speaking country in the world  by   जनसांख्यिकी   .
दक्षिणी  Cone  (  , ) is a geographic region composed of the  southernmost   क्षेत्रों  of  दक्षिण   अमेरिका  , south  of   the  Tropic of  मकर   .
Although geographically this includes Southern and  भाग  of Southeast  (   são   पाउलो   )   of   ब्राज़ील   ,  in  शर्तें  of political geography the  दक्षिणी  cone  रै   traditionally  comprised  अर्जेंटीना   ,   चिली   ,  Paraguay ,  और  Uruguay .
In the  narrowest  sense ,  it  only covers  अर्जेंटीना  ,  चिली   और  Uruguay  ,   bounded  on  the  north by  the  states of Brazil ,  पैराग्वे  ,  बोलीविया   और   पेरू  , on  the  west by  the   प्रशांत  Ocean  ,   और  south to the  जंक्शन   between  the Pacific and Atlantic  महासागर  ,  जिससे   it   is  the closest continental area of  अंटार्कटिक  ( 1000 km )  .
ऊँची  life expectancy , the  उच्चतम   इंसान   विकास   अनुक्रमणिका  of Latin America ,  ऊँची   मानक  of  जीना  , significant  भागीदारी   in  the global  बाज़ार  and the emerging economy  of  its  सदस्यों   मेक  the Southern Cone  the  most prosperous  macro-region   in  South  अमेरिका  .
लिये  multi-event athletic  प्रतियोगिताओं   देखिए  Track and  फ़ील्ड   प्रतियोगिताओं   ,  section  ``   बैठक   ''   .
Meetings are sometimes held  around  conference tables  .
In a meeting  ,  two or  अधिक  people come  साथ   to  discuss  एक  or  अधिक   विषय   ,  often in  a   औपचारिक   सेटिंग   .
An  आधिकारिक  game in  बेसबॉल  ,  भी  sometimes  पुकारा  a  विनियमन  game , is a  खेल  that has progressed  परे   the  point at which it can be considered complete  if  necessary .
This is approximately the halfway point  of  the game .
in  the case of inclement weather ,  कोई  game which has reached this point may be stopped and shortened  as   needed  , with the result being  फाइनल  ,  और   सब   रिकॉर्ड  and statistics  गिने  .
a  game  जिससे   रै   नहीं  reached  इस  point before  होने  stopped is either considered a suspended game ( to  be  continued  at   a   बाद  date from  the   पाइंट   of  stoppage ) , or is simply canceled  और  replayed from the  प्रारंभ   .
(  इस  depends  on   the   नियम  of each  व्यक्तिगत   लीग   .   )
in   either   मामला   ,   no  statistics are counted until  the  game becomes official .
Since  सबसे  professional  बेसबॉल   खेल   हैं  nine innings long  ,   the  fifth inning is used as the threshold for  an  official game  .
If the visiting  टोली  is  अग्रणी  , or the  खेल  is tied ,  the  end of the fifth inning  marks  this point .
if   the  home team (  जिससे   bats  last  )   is   already  ahead in the  स्कोर  , and theoretically would not need its  हाफ  of the fifth inning  ,   तब  41⁄2 innings  (  i.e. ,  the  middle of the fifth )  is  considered an official game  .
The  खेल   is   भी   माना  official  if   the   घर  team  स्कोर  to take the lead  in   the  bottom  of  the fifth inning , since the  खेल  would  समाप्त   तत्काल   if  the same  बात  happened  in  the ninth  .
In  nearly  all  मामले  , the  ``  official game ''  औकात   is  used  to   determine   whether  a  बरसात  check will  be   सम्मानित  for fans holding tickets .
If  a  game is started but  करता  not reach the  पाइंट  of  बनने  official , fans  हैं   हकदार   to   a   नई  ticket for the make-up game or (  in  most  मामले  ) any other available game of their  चुनाव  .
If a  खेल  is halted after  it  becomes official  ,  the game  is   बस   shortened  and  no   बरसात  check is given .
The ``  आधिकारिक  game '' statistic received some attention  दौरान   the  1995 season , when Cal Ripken  ,  Jr.  थी  approaching  the  record  लिये  consecutive games played  ,  previously held by Lou Gehrig .
Large  संख्याएँ  were  लटका  on the side of  the   b  & O Warehouse at  oriole  Park  at  Camden Yards  to  show  the   क्रमांक  of  खेल   in  Ripken 's streak .
प्रत्येक   दिन  , a new  क्रमांक   थी  unfurled  दौरान   the   पांचवां   inning  after each game had become official  (  since  the   statistic  would  नहीं   have   गिने  if the  खेल  had  महरूम  stopped  पहले  that point ) .
A  समान   अभ्यास   रै  been  प्रयुक्त  to count  bas   toward  the demolition of several stadiums  (  including Veterans  स्टेडियम  in Philadelphia  in  2003  ,  Busch Memorial Stadium  in  St. Louis in 2005 ,  और  the original Yankee  स्टेडियम   और  Shea  स्टेडियम   in  New York City  in  2008 ) ;  as  each game  became   आधिकारिक  , the  टोली  would unveil a  नई   (  lower ) number showing  the   क्रमांक  of games left  to  be  निभाई  in  the  stadium .
A telephone number  or  phone number is a sequence of digits used  to  call from one telephone  लकीर   to  another  in  a public switched  टेलीफोन  network .
When  टेलीफोन  numbers were  invented  , they  यहूद   छोटी  — as  few  as one ,  दो  or three digits  —  and  यहूद   दिए   orally   to   a  switchboard  ऑपरेटर   .
As  फोन  systems  have  grown  और   interconnected  to  encompass  the world , telephone  संख्याएँ  have become  longer  .
In addition to telephones ,  वे  now access other devices  ,   ऐसे  as computers and fax machines .
The number  contains   the  information necessary to  पहचानो   uniquely  the intended  endpoint   लिये  the telephone call  .
Each such endpoint must have a unique number  भीतर   the  public  switched   टेलीफोन   संजाल   .
Most countries  उपयोग  fixed  लंबाई  numbers ( for normal lines at least ) and therefore  the   क्रमांक  of  endpoints   determines  the necessary  लंबाई  of  the  telephone  क्रमांक  .
It is  भी  possible  लिये  each  सदस्य  to have a set of  shorter   संख्याएँ   लिये  the endpoints most often used  .
ये   ``   आशुलिपि   ''  or `` speed calling  ''   संख्याएँ  are  automatically  translated to unique  टेलीफोन  numbers  पहले  the  कॉल  can  be  connected  .
Some  खास  services have  उनके  own short  संख्याएँ  ( e.g.  ,  1-1-9 ,  9-1-1  , 0-0-0  ,   9-9-9   ,  1-1-1 , and 1-1-2  होने  the Emergency Services numbers for  चीन  ,  जापानी   ,   दक्षिण   कोरियाई  ,  ताईवान   और   श्री  Lanka  ;  Canada  और  the United States ; Australia ;  the  United  किंगडम  ,  आयरलैंड   ,  South Africa , Poland  ,  Saudi  अरब  , the  संयुक्त   अरब   अमीरात   ,  Morocco  ,   मकाओ   ,   बहरीन  , Qatar  ,  Bangladesh  ,   बोत्सवाना  ,  घाना   ,  Kenya  ,  Hong Kong  ,  Malaysia  ,  Mauritius , Singapore , Zimbabwe  ,  Trinidad  ,   टोबैगो  ; New  जीलैंड  ; Kuwait and the European  संघ  ,  क्रमशः  . )
Many systems also allow  काल्स  within a local area to  be   बना  without dialing  the  local area code .
लिये   उदाहरण  ,  a   फोन  number in  उत्तर  America will  प्रारंभ  with  तीन  numbers  (  such  as  661 ) , which  is  the  क्षेत्रफल   कोड  , followed by seven digits split into  भाग   of  three  और   चार  ( such as 550-1212 )  ,  which  is  the local number .
कुछ  areas  अभी  have  अनिवार्य  ten-digit  डायलिंग  in place  ,   भी   लिये   लोकल  calls  .
सबसे   टेलीफोन  networks  आज  ( exceptions being private intercom and secure phone  संजाल   )  are interconnected  in   the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  telephone  संजाल  ,  जहाँ   the   स्वरूप   of  telephone  संख्याएँ   is   मानकीकृत  by  itu-t   in  the  अनुशंसा   e.164   .
इस   specifies   कि   the  entire  क्रमांक  should be 15  अंक   or   shorter  ,  और  begin  साथ   a  country  उपसर्ग  .
For most  देशों   ,  this  is  followed  by   an   क्षेत्रफल  code or city code and the subscriber  क्रमांक   ,  which might  consist  of the code  लिये  a particular telephone exchange .
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes  कैसा  to  represent  an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  telephone number in writing  or   छपाई  ,  starting  with  a  plus sign  (  `` +  ''   )  and the  देश  code .
When calling an international  क्रमांक   इससे  a fixed  लकीर  phone ,  the  + must be  replaced  with  the  international call  उपसर्ग   चुनी  by the country the  कॉल  is  होने   बना  from .
Some mobile phones allow the  +  to  be  entered directly .
the  format and  आवंटन  of  लोकल  phone numbers are  नियंत्रित  by  प्रत्येक  nation  's   संबंधित  government  ,  either  सीधे  or by sponsored  संगठन  (  ऐसे   as   nanpa  overseen  by  NeuStar Inc.  )  .
Before  a  telephone call is connected  ,  the  टेलीफोन   क्रमांक   जरूर   be  dialed  by   the  calling party  or   कॉलर   .
the  called party  might   have   उपकरण  that presents caller ID before the  कॉल   is   answered   .
a  collection agency is  a   कारोबार  that pursues  भुगतान   of   debts   owed   by   individuals  or businesses .
Most  संग्रहण  agencies operate as agents of creditors and collect debts for  a   शुल्क   or  percentage  of   the  total amount owed .
वहीँ  are  अनेक  types of collection  एजेंसियों   .
first-party   एजेंसियों   हैं  oftentimes  subsidiaries   of   the  original company the debt is  owed   to   .
Third-party  एजेंसियों  are separate  कंपनियाँ   contracted   by  a  कम्पनी  to  collect   debts  on their  निमित्त   लिये  a  शुल्क  .
Debt  खरीदार  purchase the debt at a percentage of its value , then  attempt  to  collect  it .
Each country has its own rules  और  regulations regarding them .
Cannabis flower  साथ  visible  trichomes
Cannabis ,  भी  known  as  marijuana ( from  the   मैक्सिकन  Spanish  marihuana   )  ,  और  by other  names   ,  is  a   तैयारी  of the  कैनबिस  plant intended for  उपयोग  as a  psychoactive   ड्रग   और  as medicine  .
Pharmacologically ,  the  principal  psychoactive   constituent  of  कैनबिस  is tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC  )  ;  it   is  one  of   483  known compounds in the plant ,  सहित  at least  84  other cannabinoids  ,  such as cannabidiol ( CBD )  ,  cannabinol  (   cbn  )  ,  tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ) .
and cannabigerol ( CBG )  .
This  is   a  list  of  American football quarterbacks  जो   have   प्रारंभ   लिये  the  वॉशिंगटन   redskins  , as well as  इसके   पूर्ववर्तियों   the  Boston Braves  (   1932   )  and  बोस्टन  Redskins (  1933   –  1936 )  ,  in  the  National  फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL ) .
the   वॉशिंगटन  Redskins franchise was  originally  founded in Boston , Massachusetts as the Boston  braves  , named after the  लोकल  baseball franchise .
The name was changed  the  following year to  the  Redskins  .
In 1937  ,  the franchise moved  to  Washington  ,   d.c   .
Of the  49  Redskins starting  quarterbacks  , two have been  inducted  into the Pro  फ़ुटबॉल   हॉल   of   कीर्ति  : Sammy Baugh  और  Sonny  jurgensen   .
Robert Griffin III  2012-present
जेसन  Campbell 2005-2009
Mark Burnell 2004-2007
Mark Rypien 1986-1993
Joe  theismann  1974-1985
सैमी   baugh   1937-1952
1st   खास  Forces Operational  detachment-delta   (  1st SFOD-D  )   ,   popularly  known as  डेल्टा  Force ,  is   एक  of the  संयुक्त  States ' four secretive tier-one  counter-terrorism   और   खास   मिशन   इकाई  .
It  थी   formerly  listed as the Combat Applications  समूह   by   the  Department  of  Defense but has  चूंकि  been officially re-designated the Army Compartmented Elements ( ACE )  .
While  1st  SFOD-D is administratively supported by  usasoc  , it  जलप्रपात   अंतर्गत  the operational control of  the  Joint  खास   परिचालन  Command  .
Delta  फ़ोर्स  and  इसके  Navy counterpart , the Naval Special Warfare Development Group  ,   हैं   the   संयुक्त  States  सैन्य  's  प्राथमिक  counter-terrorism  इकाई  .
Delta  फ़ोर्स   's  primary  कार्य   हैं  counter-terrorism ,  सीधा   कार्रवाई   ,  and  नेशनल   हस्तक्षेप  operations ,  हालांकि   it  is  an  extremely  बहुमुखी   समूह  capable of  conducting   अनेक   प्रकार   of   गुप्त  missions  ,  including  ,  but not limited to , hostage rescues  और  raids .
The Central Intelligence Agency 's highly  गुपचुप   खास   क्रियाएँ   प्रभाग   (   उदास  ) and more  specifically  its  elite   खास   परिचालन  Group (  sog  )  प्रायः   works  with  –  and recruits –  ऑपरेटर  from Delta  फ़ोर्स   .
Alpha  क्षय  is one example  प्रकार   of  radioactive decay  ,  in which  an  atomic nucleus emits an alpha  कण   ,  and thereby transforms  (   or  'decays '  )  into an atom with  a  mass number 4  कम  and  परमाणु   क्रमांक  2  कम  .
अनेक  other types of  decays   हैं  possible .
रेडियोसक्रिय   क्षय  ,  भी  known as  नाभिकीय  decay  or   radioactivity  , is  the   प्रक्रम   by  which a  केंद्रक  of an unstable atom loses energy  by  emitting  अणु  of ionizing radiation  .
a   सामग्री  that spontaneously emits this kind of  विकिरण   —   जिससे  includes the emission  of   ऊर्जावान  alpha  अणु  , beta  अणु  , and gamma rays — is considered radioactive .
There  हैं  many different types  of   रेडियोसक्रिय  decay ( see table  नीचे   )  .
a  decay , or loss of energy ,  परिणाम   जब   an   अणु  with  एक  type  of   केंद्रक   ,   पुकारा   the  parent radionuclide  ,  transforms to  an   अणु  with  a  nucleus in a  अलग  state  ,   or  to  a   अलग   केंद्रक   containing  different  संख्याएँ  of protons and  neutrons   .
Either of these products is named  the  daughter nuclide  .
In  कुछ   decays  the  जनक  and daughter are different chemical elements  ,   और  thus the decay  प्रक्रम  results in nuclear transmutation ( creation  of  an atom of  a  new element  )   .
The  पहला  decay  प्रक्रियाओं  to  be  discovered were alpha decay , beta decay , and gamma decay .
अल्फा   क्षय  occurs when the nucleus  ejects   an  alpha  कण   (   हीलियम  nucleus  )  .
This  is  the most common  प्रक्रम   of  emitting nucleons  ,   लकिन  in rarer  प्रकार  of decays , nuclei  can  eject protons  ,  or  विशिष्ट   nuclei  of other elements ( in  the   प्रक्रम   पुकारा  cluster  क्षय   )  .
Beta decay occurs when the nucleus  emits  an  इलेक्ट्रॉन  or positron and a type  of   न्यूट्रिनो   ,  in  a   प्रक्रम  that changes  a  proton to a neutron or the other way  around  .
the   केंद्रक   may   कैप्चर  an orbiting  इलेक्ट्रॉन   ,  converting  a  proton  into  a neutron  (   इलेक्ट्रॉन  capture ) .
All  of  these  प्रक्रियाओं  result in nuclear  transmutation  .
By contrast , there exist radioactive  क्षय  processes that  do   नहीं   परिणाम  in transmutation .
The  उर्जा   of  an excited  केंद्रक   may   be  emitted  as  a gamma ray  in   गामा  decay ,  or  used to eject an  कक्षीय   इलेक्ट्रॉन   by  interaction with the excited  केंद्रक  in a  प्रक्रम   पुकारा  internal conversion .
Radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons ,  और  this results  in  a change in an element  इससे  one  समस्थानिक   to  another .
One  प्रकार   of  radioactive  क्षय  results in  उत्पाद   जिससे  are  नहीं  defined  ,  but appear in  a  range  of  `` pieces ''  of  the original  केंद्रक   .
इस  decay  is  called spontaneous fission  .
This decay  happens  when  a   विशाल   अस्थिर  nucleus spontaneously  splits   into  two ( and  occasionally   तीन  ) smaller daughter nuclei ,  और   प्रायः  emits  गामा  rays  ,  neutrons  ,   or  other particles  as   a  consequence  .
Radioactive decay is a stochastic ( i.e. , random )  प्रक्रम  at the  स्तर  of  सिंगल   अणु  , in that ,  according   to  quantum  सिद्धान्त  ,  it  is impossible  to   भविष्यवाणी  when  a   particular  atom  होगा  decay .
However , the  मौका  that a given atom will decay is  निरंतर  over time .
लिये  a  विशाल   क्रमांक  of atoms , the  क्षय  rate  लिये  the  संग्रहण   is  computable  इससे   the   measured  decay  स्थिरांक  of the  न्यूक्लाइड   (   or  equivalently from  the  half-lifes )  .
Waxing is  a   रूप  of semi-permanent hair removal which removes the hair  इससे  the root  .
New  बाल  will  नहीं  grow  वापस   in  the  previously  waxed area for two  to  eight  सप्ताह   ,  although  कुछ   लोगों   होगा  start to  देखिए   regrowth   in  only a week .
Almost any area of the body can be  waxed   ,  including eyebrows , face , bikini area  ,  legs , arms  ,  back  ,   उदर  and feet .
There  हैं   अनेक   प्रकार  of  वैक्सिंग   उपयुक्त  for  निकालना   अनावश्यक  hair  .
Strip waxing  is   संपन्नता  by  spreading  a wax  thinly  over  the  skin .
a  cloth or paper  स्ट्रिप  is then pressed  on   the  top  और   ripped   बंद  the  दिशा   of  hair growth .
इस  removes  the   मोम   साथ   साथ   the   बाल   .
स्ट्रिप   मोम  can also be made  at   घर   using   नीबू   रस   ,  water  ,   शुगर  and honey  .
Hot waxing  utilizes  Hot wax  (   as   opposed   to  strip wax ) .
in   इस  case  ,   the  wax is  लागू   somewhat  thickly and with no  cloth  or  पेपर   स्ट्रिप्स   .
the  wax then  hardens  when it  cools   ,  thus allowing the  आसान   हटाना   by  a  चिकित्सक  without the aid  of  cloths .
This waxing  विधि  is very beneficial to people who have sensitive skin .
Wall  पेंटिंग  ( 1st  सदी  AD ) from Pompeii depicting a multigenerational banquet
Ancient  रोमन  culture existed  throughout  the  लगभग   1200-year  history of the  सभ्यता   of  Ancient Rome  .
The term refers  to  the culture  of  the Roman Republic  ,  later the Roman Empire  ,   जिससे   ,  at its  शिखर   ,  covered  an   क्षेत्रफल  from  lowland  Scotland  और  Morocco  to  the Euphrates .
Life in  प्राचीन  Rome  revolved   around  the  नगर  of Rome ,  इसके   famed  seven  पहाड़ियाँ   ,  and  इसके   स्मारकीय  structures such as  the   flavian   amphitheatre   (   अभी  called  the  Colosseum  )   ,  the Forum of Trajan  ,  and the Pantheon  .
The  नगर  also had  अनेक   थिएटर   ,  gymnasiums  ,   और  many taverns  ,   baths  ,  और   brothels  .
Throughout  the  territory  अंतर्गत   प्राचीन  Rome  's   कंट्रोल  , residential architecture ranged  इससे  very  modest  houses to country villas ,  और  in  the  capital city of  रोम  , there were  इम्पीरियल  residences  on   the  elegant  palatine   हिल  , from which  the   शब्द   राजमहल   is   निकला   .
the  vast majority of  the  population  जिया   in  the city center ,  packed   into   insulae   (   अपार्टमेंट  blocks ) .
the  city of Rome was the  largest  megalopolis of that time  ,   साथ  a population that may well have  exceeded   एक   लाख  people  ,  with a high  समाप्त  estimate  of   3.6  million  और   a  low  समाप्त   अनुमान   of  450,000  .
Historical estimates  indicate   कि   around   30   प्रतिशत   of  the  जनसांख्यिकी  under the city  's  jurisdiction lived in  innumerable  urban  centers   ,  with  जनसांख्यिकी  of at least 10,000  और   अनेक  military  settlements   ,   a   बहुत   ऊँची   रेट   of   शहरी  by pre-industrial  मानकों  .
The most urbanized  भाग  of the  साम्राज्य  was  इटली   ,   जिससे  had an  अनुमानित  rate  of  urbanization of 32  %  , the same rate of urbanization of  इंग्लैण्ड  in 1800 .
सबसे   रोमन   कस्बों  and cities  था   a  forum , temples  और   the  same  प्रकार  of buildings , on a smaller  स्केल  , as  मिला  in Rome .
The  विशाल  urban  जनसांख्यिकी   जरूरी  an endless supply  of  food which  थी   a   जटिल  logistical task  ,  including acquiring  ,  transporting  ,   storing  and distribution of food for Rome and other urban centers  .
Italian  खेतो   supplied   सब्जियां  and fruits , but  मछली   और   मांस  were  luxuries   .
aqueducts  were built  to  bring water  to   शहरी  centers and wine  और   आयल  were  आयातित  from Hispania , Gaul  और  Africa .
वहीँ   थी  a  बहुत  large amount of commerce  between   the   प्रांतों  of  the   रोमन   साम्राज्य  , since  इसके  transportation  प्रौद्योगिकी  was  बहुत  efficient .
The  औसत  costs of transport and the  प्रौद्योगिकी  were comparable with 18th-century  यूरोपीय   .
the  later  नगर  of Rome did  नहीं   भरण  the space  भीतर  its  प्राचीन  Aurelian  दीवारें  until after 1870 .
Eighty percent  of  the population under the jurisdiction of ancient  रोम   जिया   in  the countryside  in  settlements with less  than   10  thousand inhabitants  .
Landlords generally resided in cities  और   उनके   estates  were left in the care  of   फार्म   प्रबंधक   .
The  दुर्दशा  of rural  स्लेव  was generally  बदतर   than  their counterparts  working  in  शहरी  aristocratic households .
To  stimulate  a  उच्चतर  labor productivity most landlords  freed   a  large  क्रमांक   of   स्लेव   और  many received  मजदूरी  .
कुछ   रिकॉर्ड   indicate  that `` as  अनेक  as 42 people lived in one  छोटी   फार्म  hut  in  Egypt ,  जबकि   छह   परिवारों  owned a single olive tree . '' .
ऐसे   a   ग्रामीण  environment continued to  induce  migration  of  population to urban centers  जबतक  the  जल्दी  2nd  सदी  ,  जब  the urban population stopped  growing  and  प्रारंभ   to  decline .
Starting  in  the middle of  the  2nd  सदी  BC , private Greek culture  थी  increasingly  in   ascendancy   ,   in  spite of tirades  विरूद्ध  the ``  softening  ''  प्रभाव   of   hellenized   संस्कृति   इससे   the   रूढ़िवादी  moralists .
By  the   समय  of Augustus  ,  cultured Greek household  स्लेव   सिखाया  the  रोमन   यंग  ( sometimes even the  लड़कियों  ) ;  शेफ़  , decorators ,  secretaries  ,  डॉक्टर   ,   और   hairdressers—all  came from the  यूनानी   ईस्ट  .
Greek  sculptures  adorned Hellenistic  लैंडस्केप  gardening on  the  Palatine  or  in  the  villas  ,  or  यहूद  imitated in Roman sculpture yards  by  Greek  स्लेव  .
the  Roman  भोजन   preserved   in   the   cookery   किताबे   ascribed  to  apicius  is essentially  यूनानी   .
Roman writers  disdained  Latin for a  संस्कारी   यूनानी  style .
Only in  विधि  and governance  थी   the   तिरछा  nature of Rome 's accretive culture  परम्  .
विरूद्ध  this human background , both  the   शहरी  and rural setting  ,   एक  of  इतिहास  's most influential  सभ्यताओं   took  shape , leaving behind a cultural  विरासत  that survives in part today  .
James Joseph `` Duffy '' Waldorf  ,  Jr. ( born  अगस्त  20 ,  1962  ) is  an  American  पेशेवर   मनःस्थिति  .
कांच  bottles ( for cucumber  स्लाइस  ) on  शिपिंग  pallets
A  सोवियत  mayonnaise jar
A modern ``  फ्रेंच  Kilner  ''   जार
कांच  production  involves  two main methods – the float  कांच   प्रक्रम  , which produces sheet  कांच   ,  and  glassblowing  which  produces  bottles and  अन्य   containers   .
a  season  is   a   subdivision  of the year , marked by changes  in   मौसम  ,  पारिस्थितिकी   ,  and hours of daylight .
Seasons result from  the   वार्षिक  revolution of  the  Earth  around  the Sun  और  the  झुकाव  of the Earth 's  अक्ष  relative to the plane of revolution  .
In  शीतोष्ण   और   ध्रुवीय  regions , the seasons  हैं  marked by changes in the intensity  of  sunlight that  पहुँच   the   धरती  's  सतह  , variations of  जिससे   may  cause animals to go  into   शीतनिष्क्रियता   or  to migrate , and plants to be  dormant  .
दौरान   may   ,  June and July , the  उत्तरी   गोलार्ध  is exposed to  अधिक  direct sunlight  क्युकी   the   गोलार्ध  faces the sun .
The same  is  true  of   the   दक्षिणी   गोलार्ध  in  नवम्बर   ,   दिसम्बर  and  जनवरी   .
It is  the   झुकाव  of  the  Earth that causes the Sun to be higher in the sky during the  गर्मियाँ  months  जिससे   increases   the  solar flux  .
However , due  to   मौसमी   lag  , June , July and August are  the   hottest   महीने  in the  उत्तरी   गोलार्ध  and  दिसम्बर  , January and February are the  hottest  months  in  the  दक्षिणी   गोलार्ध  .
In  शीतोष्ण   और   subpolar  regions , generally  चार  calendar -based seasons  (  with  उनके  adjectives  )   हैं  recognized :  वसन्त  (  vernal   )  , summer ( estival ) , autumn  (  autumnal ) and  शीत  (  hibernal  )  .
However , ecologists  ज़्यादातर  use a  छह   ऋतु  model for temperate climate  regions  that  शामिल  pre-spring (  prevernal  )  और  late  गर्मियाँ   (  serotinal )  as  distinct  सीज़न   साथ  with the traditional  चार  .
Hot  regions  have two or  तीन  seasons  ;  the rainy  (  or  गीला  ,  or  monsoon ) season and the dry season ,  और   in  some  तीव्र   क्षेत्रों  , a cool or mild season .
in  some  भाग  of  the  world , special `` seasons '' are loosely defined  आधारित  on important  कार्यक्रम  such  as   a   hurricane  season  ,   बवंडर   ऋतु   or   a   दावानल   ऋतु   .
the  six  ecological  seasons
the  four  पंचांग  seasons ,  चित्रित   in   an  ancient Roman  मोज़ेक   इससे  Tunisia
the  Battle  of   फोर्ट  Sumter (  अप्रैल   12–14   ,  1861  )  was  the   बमबारी   और  surrender  of  Fort  sumter   ,   निकट  Charleston ,  दक्षिण  Carolina  ,  that  प्रारंभ  the American Civil War .
Following  घोषणाओं   of  secession  by   सात  Southern  राज्य   ,   दक्षिण   कैरोलिना  demanded  कि   the   u.S.  Army  लापरवाही  its facilities in Charleston Harbor  .
On December 26 , 1860 , U.S. Major  रॉबर्ट   एंडरसन  surreptitiously  स्थानांतरित   उसके  small command  इससे  the indefensible Fort  moultrie  on  सुलीवान  's Island  to   फोर्ट   sumter  ,  a   substantial   किला   controlling   the  entrance of Charleston Harbor  .
An attempt by U.S. President James Buchanan  to   reinforce  and resupply Anderson ,  using  the unarmed merchant  जलयान   स्टार   of  the West , failed when  it   थी  fired upon  by   shore  batteries  on  January  9   ,  1861  .
South Carolina  अधिकारियों  then seized all Federal  प्रॉपर्टी   in   the  Charleston area , except for Fort Sumter .
दौरान  the  जल्दी   महीने   of   1861  ,  the  situation around Fort Sumter increasingly began to  resemble  a siege  .
in   कूच   ,   ब्रिगेडियर   .  Gen. P.  G.  T.  beauregard   ,   the   पहला  general  अधिकारी   of   the   newly   formed  Confederate States of America , was placed in  कमांड   of  Confederate  शक्तियां  in  चार्ल्सटन  .
Beauregard energetically directed the  strengthening   of  batteries around Charleston  हार्बर   aimed   at  Fort  sumter   .
शर्तें   in  the fort grew dire  as   the  Union  सैनिको   rushed  to  पूरा  the installation of  अतिरिक्त  guns  .
एंडरसन   थी   छोटी   of  men ,  खाना   ,  and supplies .
The resupply of  फोर्ट   sumter  became  the  first  संकट  of the administration  of   अध्यक्ष  Abraham Lincoln .
He notified the  राज्यपाल  of  दक्षिण   कैरोलिना   ,  Francis  W.  Pickens  ,   कि  he was sending supply ships ,  जिससे   resulted   in   an   ultimatum  from the Confederate  सरकारी   :   evacuate   फोर्ट  Sumter  तत्काल  .
प्रमुख  Anderson refused to surrender .
Beginning at  4:30  a.m. on April 12 , the Confederates  bombarded  the fort from artillery batteries  surrounding  the harbor  .
Although the Union garrison returned  आग  , they  यहूद  significantly outgunned and  ,  after 34  घंटों   ,  Major Anderson  सहमत   to   evacuate  .
वहीँ  was no  घाटा  of life  on  either side as  a  direct result  of   इस  engagement , although a gun explosion  दौरान   the  surrender  ceremonies  on April  14  caused two  संघ  deaths .
following   the  battle ,  वहीँ  was widespread support from  दोनो  North and South  लिये   further  military action  .
lincoln   's  immediate  कॉल  for  75,000  volunteers  to   दबाने  the  विद्रोह   resulted  in an additional four southern slave  राज्य  also declaring  उनके   secession   और  joining the  confederacy  .
The Civil War had begun .
3G , short for third Generation , is  the   तीसरा   पीढी   of  mobile telecommunications technology .
3G  दूरसंचार  networks  support  services that provide an  सूचना   ट्रांसफ़र   रेट   of  at least  200   kbit/s  .
however  , many  सेवाएं  advertised  as   3g  provide higher speed  than   the  minimum  तकनीकी  requirements for  a  3G service .
हाल   3g  releases , often  denoted  3.5G and  3.75g  ,  भी  provide mobile broadband access  of   अनेक  Mbit/s to smartphones and  मोबाईल  modems in laptop  कंप्यूटर  .
3G finds application  in  wireless voice  telephony   ,  mobile Internet  अभिगम   ,  fixed  बेतार  Internet access ,  वीडियो   काल्स  and  मोबाईल  TV .
``  mazel  Tov ! ''  लिखा  on a  वाइन   कांच  tag
Traditionally , after the groom breaks the  कांच   ,   the   अतिथि  shout  ``  Mazel Tov  !   ``  .
A birthday  केक  , iced  साथ   the   शब्द   ``   מזל   טוב  '' ( mazal tov ) , as is  प्रायः  done in Israel .
यहाँ  the  phrase  is written  in   यहूदी   कर्सिव  .
`` Mazel  tov   ''  or ``  mazal  tov ''  (   यहूदी  / Yiddish : `` מזל  טוב   ''   ,  Hebrew :  ``  mazal  tov   ''  ; Yiddish  :   ``  mazel tov  ''  ; lit .
``   शुभ  luck  ''  )  is  a  phrase  used to express congratulations for a happy  और  significant  अवसर   or   इवेंट   .
Hepatitis C  is   an   संक्रामक   बीमारी   affecting  primarily the  जिगर   ,   caused   by   the  hepatitis C  वायरस  ( HCV ) .
The infection  is   प्रायः   asymptomatic  ,  लकिन  chronic infection  can  lead  to   scarring  of the liver and ultimately  to  cirrhosis  ,   जिससे  is generally  apparent  after many  सालो  .
In some cases  ,   those  with cirrhosis will go on to  develop   जिगर  failure ,  जिगर  cancer or life-threatening esophageal  और  gastric varices  .
hcv  is  स्प्रेड   primarily  by blood-to-blood contact  संबद्ध  with  intravenous  drug  उपयोग   ,  poorly  sterilized  medical  उपकरण   और   transfusions   .
An estimated 130–200 million  लोगों   विश्वव्यापी  are infected with  .
the   अस्तित्व  of  (   originally  `` non- A non-  b  hepatitis '' )  थी  postulated in the  1970s   और  proven in 1989 .
तभी   infects  humans  और  chimpanzees .
The virus  persists  in the  जिगर   in  about  85   %  of those infected  .
This persistent infection can  be  treated with medication : the standard therapy  is   a   संयोजन   of  peginterferon and ribavirin , with  either  boceprevir  or   telaprevir  added in  कुछ  cases .
overall  ,  50–80  % of people treated  हैं  cured  .
Those who develop cirrhosis  or  liver cancer  may   आवश्यकता   a  liver transplant .
is  the  अग्रणी  cause of liver transplantation , though the virus usually  बारंबार  after transplantation  .
No  टीका  against  is   उपलब्धियाँ   .
A  लचीली  spending account ( FSA ) ,  भी   ज्ञात   as  a  लचीली  spending arrangement  ,  is  एक   of  a number  of  tax-advantaged financial accounts that can be set up through a cafeteria plan  of  an employer  in   the   संयुक्त   राज्य  .
an  FSA  allows  an employee to set  aside  a portion  of  earnings to pay  लिये  qualified expenses as  स्थापित  in  the   कैफेटेरिया  plan ,  सबसे  commonly  लिये  medical expenses  लकिन  often for dependent care  or   अन्य  expenses .
धन  deducted from an employee  's  pay  into  an  fsa   is   नहीं  subject to payroll  कर   ,   resulting  in substantial  payroll   कर   बचत   .
One  significant  disadvantage  to  using an FSA is  कि   निधि  not  प्रयुक्त  by the  समाप्त   of  the plan  साल  are  खोया   to   the   कर्मचारी  , known  as   the   ``   उपयोग  it or lose  it  ''  नियम   .
the   सबसे  common  प्रकार   of   लचीली   बिता   खाता  ,  the  medical expense FSA  (  also  चिकित्सा   fsa  or  स्वास्थ्य  FSA  )   ,   is  similar  to  a health  बचत  account  (  HSA ) or  a   स्वास्थ्य   reimbursement  account (  hra   )  .
However , while  hsas   और  HRAs  हैं   लगभग   exclusively  used  as  components of  a  consumer  चलित  health care plan , medical FSAs are  commonly  offered with  अधिक   परंपरागत  health plans as well  .
In addition  ,  funds in a  स्वास्थ्य   बचत   खाता  are not  खोया  when the plan  साल  is over , unlike  निधि   in  an  fsa  .
Paper  फ़ॉर्म  or an  fsa  debit  कार्ड  , also  ज्ञात  as  a  Flexcard  ,   may  be used to access the account funds .
Tennessee  (  ) ( ) is  a   u.S.   राज्य   स्तिथ  in the  southeastern  United States .
Tennessee is the 36th most  extensive  and the 17th most  populous  of  the   50   संयुक्त   राज्य  .
Tennessee is  bordered   by  Kentucky  और   वर्जिनिया  to  the  north  ,  North  कैरोलिना  to  the   ईस्ट   ,  Georgia , Alabama  ,   और  Mississippi  to  the  दक्षिण   ,   और  Arkansas and Missouri  to  the  वेस्ट  .
the  Appalachian Mountains dominate the  पूर्वी  part of the  राज्य  ,  और  the  मिसिसिपी  River forms  the  state  's   पश्चिमी  border  .
Tennessee 's capital  और  second largest  नगर  is  नैशविले  , which  रै   a   जनसांख्यिकी  of 609,644 .
Memphis is  the  state 's largest city ,  साथ   a   जनसांख्यिकी  of 652,050 .
The  राज्य  of Tennessee is rooted in the Watauga Association ,  a   1772  frontier  अनुबंध  generally  regarded  as  the  first constitutional government west of the Appalachians .
What  is  now Tennessee  थी  initially  भाग   of  North Carolina , and  बाद   भाग  of  the   दक्षिणपश्चिम  Territory .
Tennessee was admitted  to  the Union as the 16th  राज्य  on  जून  1 , 1796  .
Tennessee  थी  the last state  to   छोड़  the Union and join the  confederacy  at the outbreak of  the   u.S.  Civil War in 1861  ,  and the first state to  be  readmitted to the  संघ  at the end of the war .
Tennessee  सुसज्जित  more soldiers for the Confederate  फौज  than any other state  ,  and  अधिक  soldiers for  the  Union Army than any other Southern state .
in  the 20th  सदी  , Tennessee transitioned  इससे  an agrarian economy  to   a  more  diversified  economy ,  aided  at times  by   संघीय  entities  ऐसे   as   the  Tennessee  घाटी   प्राधिकार   .
In  the  early 1940s ,  the  city  of   ओक  Ridge was  स्थापित   to   हाउस   the   मैनहटन   प्रोजेक्ट  's  यूरेनियम  enrichment  सुविधाएं   ,  helping  to  build  the   संसार  's first atomic bomb .
Tennessee has played  a  critical role  in  the development  of  many  फ़ॉर्म  of  अमरीकी  popular music  ,  including  चट्टान   और   फेंकें  , blues ,  देश   ,  and  rockabilly  .
Beale  गली  in Memphis is  माना  by many to be the birthplace  of   the  blues , with musicians such as W.C  .  Handy  performing  in its clubs  as  early as 1909  .
मेम्फिस  was  भी   घर   to   सूर्य   रिकॉर्ड   ,  where musicians such  as   एल्विस   प्रेस्ली  , Isaac Hayes  ,   जॉनी  Cash ,  कार्ल   perkins   ,  Jerry  ली  Lewis , Roy Orbison  ,   और   चार्ली  Rich began  उनके  recording  करियर   ,   और  where rock and roll  took  shape in the 1950s .
The  1927   विक्टर  recording sessions  in   ब्रिस्टल  generally mark the beginning of  the  country  म्यूज़िक   विधा  and the  वृद्धि  of the Grand Ole Opry  in   the   1930s   helped  make Nashville  the  center  of  the country music  रिकॉर्डिंग   उद्योग  .
तीन  bricks and  गारा  museums recognize Tennessee  's   भूमिका   in   nurturing  various forms  of  popular  म्यूज़िक  : the Memphis Rock  n  ' Soul  संग्रहालय   ,  the Country  म्यूज़िक   हॉल  of Fame and  संग्रहालय   in   नैशविले  , and the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Rock-A-Billy Museum in  जैक्सन   .
In addition ,  the  Rockabilly Hall of  कीर्ति  , an  ऑनलाइन   साईट   recognizing   the  development of  rockabilly  in which  टेनेसी  played  a  crucial  भूमिका  , is  आधारित  in  नैशविले  .
Tennessee  's   प्रमुख  industries  शामिल   कृषि   ,   निर्माण  ,  और  tourism  .
मुर्गीपालन   ,   soybeans   ,   और  cattle are the  राज्य  's primary agricultural products , and major manufacturing  निर्यात  include chemicals ,  परिवहन  equipment ,  और  electrical  उपकरण   .
The  ग्रेट   smoky  Mountains  नेशनल   पार्क   ,  the  स्वदेश  's  सबसे  visited national park  ,   is  headquartered in  the   पूर्वी   भाग  of  the  state  ,  and a  खण्ड  of the Appalachian  ट्रेल  roughly  फ़ॉलो   the   tennessee-north  Carolina  किनारा   .
Other major tourist attractions  शामिल  the  टेनेसी   एक्वेरियम  in Chattanooga  ,  the Sunsphere  in  Knoxville  ,   dollywood  in Pigeon Forge ,  the   पार्थेनन  ,  the  Country Music Hall of  कीर्ति   और  Museum ,  और  Ryman  ऑडिटोरियम  in Nashville ,  और   एल्विस  Presley  's   graceland  residence  और  tomb  in  Memphis  .
एक   डिज़ाइन  variant  of  a  मुर्गा   रिंग  .
A  मुर्गा  ring is a  रिंग  that can be placed around a  man   's  penis  ,   प्रायः  at the  आधार  , primarily to slow the  प्रवाह   of  blood from the  वीर्यपात   penile   ऊतक   ,  thus  maintaining   an  erection  लिये  a much  longer  period  of  time  .
Cock rings  can   be  worn around just  the   शिश्न  or  दोनो  the penis  और   scrotum  , or  बस  the  scrotum   अलोन  ,  हालांकि  this is usually called a testicle cuff .
बजती   can   be   बना  of a variety  of  different materials  ,  most commonly leather  ,  rubber , or silicone , though  नायलॉन  and  मेटल  are also  प्रयुक्त  either as the  प्रमुख  component or part  of   the  closure .
The term  मुर्गा   रिंग   is  sometimes used as a synonym  लिये  a Prince  अल्बर्ट  piercing , a  piercing  of  the  penis that  is  usually , though not always  ,  a  मेटल  ring .
जब   प्रयुक्त  in cases of erectile dysfunction  वे   हैं  known  by  various names  ऐसे  as ``  स्तंभन   रिंग  '' and `` tension ring '' .
The  मुख्यालय   of   प्रमुख  League Baseball at 245 Park Avenue  ,  Midtown Manhattan , New York City  ,  USA  .
Major  लीग   बेसबॉल  (  एमएलबी  )  is  a professional baseball  लीग   ,  consisting of  टीमों  that play  in  the National League  और  the American League  .
डेटिंग  to 1876  और  1901 respectively ,  the   दो  leagues  मिलाया  in 2000 into a single  संगठन  led  by  the Commissioner of  बेसबॉल  , after  100  years as separate legal entities .
MLB constitutes  एक   of  the  प्रमुख   पेशेवर  sports leagues of  the  United States and Canada  .
it  is composed of 30 teams  —   29   in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  and one in Canada .
टीमों  in MLB  खेल  162 games each  ऋतु  over six  महीने  (  अप्रैल   through  September  )   .
Five  टीमों  in  प्रत्येक   लीग  advance to  a  four-round  postseason  tournament that culminates in the World Series  ,  a  best-of-seven-games   चैंपियनशिप   श्रेणी   between  the  दो  league champions which  तिथियाँ   to   1903   .
the  organization  oversees   अनेक   minor-league  baseball  लीग  which operate about 240 teams affiliated with the major-league  क्लब   .
साथ   the  International  बेसबॉल   संघ  , the league also manages the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  World Baseball Classic  टूर्नामेंट   .
MLB has the  उच्चतम  season attendance  of  any sports  लीग  in  the  world with nearly  75  million spectators  in  2012  .
Delaware ( ) is  a  U.S. state located  on   the   अटलांटिक   coast   in  the  mid-atlantic  region  of   the  United  राज्य  .
It  is  bordered to  the  south and west by Maryland  ,  to the northeast by New Jersey , and to the  उत्तर   by   पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
The  राज्य   takes  its name  इससे   थामस  West  ,   3rd   सामन्त  De La Warr , an  अंग्रेज़ी  nobleman and Virginia 's  पहला  colonial governor  ,   बाद  whom what is now called  केप  Henlopen  थी  originally named .
डेलावेयर   is   स्तिथ   in  the northeastern portion  of   the   delmarva  Peninsula and is the  दूसरी  smallest , the sixth least  populous  , but  the   छठे  most  densely   आबादी  of  the   पचास   संयुक्त  States .
डेलावेयर   is  divided into three  काउंटी   .
इससे  north to south ,  ये  three  काउंटी  are  नई  Castle , Kent ,  और  Sussex  .
जबकि   the  southern two  काउंटी  have  historically   महरूम   predominantly   agricultural   ,  New Castle  काउंटी   रै  been more industrialized .
Before  इसके  coastline was  छान  by Europeans in  the  16th century  ,   डेलावेयर  was inhabited  by  several  समूह  of Native Americans  ,  including the Lenape in  the  north and Nanticoke in  the  south .
It  थी  initially  colonized  by  डच  traders  at   zwaanendael   ,  located  निकट   the   उपस्थित  town  of   lewes   ,  in  1631  .
डेलावेयर   थी  one of the 13  colonies  participating  in  the American  क्रान्ति   और  on December  7   ,  1787 ,  became   the  first state to  ratify   the  Constitution of the United  राज्य  , thereby becoming  ज्ञात  as  the  First State .
उर्जा  Transformation  in   उर्जा   प्रणालियों  Language
Energy  परिवर्तन  or  उर्जा  conversion  is   the  process of changing  एक   रूप  of energy  to  another .
In physics , the  पद   उर्जा   describes   the  capacity  to   उपज  certain  परिवर्तन  within a system  ,   बगैर   लिहाज़   to   सीमाएं   in   परिवर्तन  imposed  by   एन्ट्रॉपी   .
Changes  in  total energy of  प्रणालियों   can  only be  संपन्नता  by adding  or  subtracting  उर्जा  from  उन्हें   ,  as  उर्जा  is a  मात्रा  which  is   conserved   ,  according to  the   पहला  law  of  thermodynamics .
according  to special relativity , changes in the energy  of  systems will also  coincide  with  परिवर्तन  in  the   प्रणाली   's   द्रव्यमान  , and the  कुल   राशि  of  द्रव्यमान  of a system is  a  measure of its energy  .
उर्जा  in  a   प्रणाली   may  be transformed so  कि   it  resides in a different  राज्य   ,  or a different type  of  energy .
Energy in  अनेक  states may be  प्रयुक्त   to   do   अनेक   किस्में   of   शारीरिक  work  .
उर्जा  may be used  in  natural processes or  मशीने  ,  or   else   to   provide  some service to society  (   ऐसे  as heat  ,  light ,  or  motion  )   .
लिये  example , an  आतंरिक  combustion  इंजन   converts  the  संभावित   रासायनिक   उर्जा  in gasoline and oxygen  into  heat , which is then transformed into the propulsive  उर्जा   (   गतिज   उर्जा  that moves  a   गाडी  ) .
a  solar cell  converts   सौर   विकिरण   into  electrical energy that  can   तब  be used to light a bulb or power  a  computer  .
The generic name  लिये   a  device which converts  उर्जा  from one form  to  another , is a transducer  .
in   सामान्य  , most  प्रकार   of   उर्जा   ,  save for  थर्मल   उर्जा  ,  may  be  परिवर्तित   efficiently  to any other  दयालु  of energy .
Sometimes  इस  occurs with an  दक्षता   of  essentially  100  %  ,   ऐसे  as when  संभावित  energy  is   परिवर्तित  to kinetic energy as an object  जलप्रपात  in vacuum  ,   or  when  it  orbits nearer or  दूर   इससे  another object ,  in  space  .
Conversion  of  other  प्रकार  of energies to  ऊष्मा  may also  occurs  with  nearly  perfect  दक्षता  ( many types of friction do this  )   .
अपवाद  for perfect conversion efficiency ( even  लिये  isolated systems  )  occur when energy has already  महरूम   partly  distributed  among  many  उपलब्धियाँ  quantum states for a  संग्रहण   of  particles  ,  which are freely  अनुमत  to explore  कोई   राज्य  of  आवेग   और   स्थिति  (  phase  space ) .
in   ऐसे   हालातों  , a  माप   पुकारा   एन्ट्रॉपी  , or evening-out  of  energy  वितरण   in  such states , dictates that future  राज्य  of  the  system must be of  at   तनिक  equal  evenness   in  energy  वितरण  .
(   वहीँ  is no way , taking  the  universe  as  a  पूरे   ,  to  collect  energy  into  fewer  राज्य   ,  once  it  has spread  to  them ) .
A consequence of  इस  requirement is  कि  there are limitations to the efficiency with which thermal energy can  be  converted to other kinds  of  energy , since thermal energy in  संतुलन  at  a  given temperature  already   represents  the  maximal   evening-out   of  energy between  सब   संभावित  states  .
Such energy is sometimes considered `` degraded  उर्जा   ,  '' because  it   is  not  entirely  usable .
The second law  of  thermodynamics  is  a  रास्ता  of stating that , for this  कारण  , thermal energy  in  a system may be converted  to  other kinds of energy  साथ   efficiencies  approaching 100 % , only  if   the   एन्ट्रॉपी  (  even-ness  or  विकार   )  of the universe is increased  by  other means , to  compensate   लिये   the   घटी  in entropy associated  साथ   the   disappearance   of   the   थर्मल  energy  और   इसके  entropy content  .
वरना  , only a part of thermal  उर्जा   may   be  converted to other kinds  of   उर्जा   (  and thus , useful work )  ,  since  the  remainder of the  ऊष्मा  must be  सुरक्षित  to  be  transferred to a thermal reservoir  at   a  lower  तापमान  , in such a way  कि  the  बढ़ाएँ  in Entropy  लिये  this  प्रक्रम   अधिक   than   compensates   लिये  the  एन्ट्रॉपी  decrease associated with  परिवर्तन  of the  बाकी   of  the heat into  अन्य  types of energy  .
the   नेशनल   हॉकी   लीग  ( NHL ; )  is  an ``  unincorporated   not-for-profit   संघ   ''   जिससे  operates a  प्रमुख  professional ice  हॉकी  league of 30  franchised  member clubs , of which  सात  are currently  स्तिथ  in  कनाडा   और  23 in the United  राज्य  .
headquartered   in  New  यॉर्क   नगर   ,  the  एनएचएल  is widely considered to  be  the premier professional ice  हॉकी   लीग   in  the world , and one  of   the   प्रमुख  professional  खेल  leagues in  the  United  राज्य  and Canada .
The Stanley  कप  , the  oldest   पेशेवर  sports  ट्रॉफी   in  North America , is  awarded   annually  to  the   लीग  playoff  चैंपियन  at the  समाप्त   of   प्रत्येक   ऋतु  .
The league  थी  organized  on  November 26  ,   1917   ,  in Montreal , Quebec  ,  Canada , after the  बर्खास्तगी   of  operations of  इसके  predecessor  संगठन   ,  the National Hockey  संघ  ( NHA  )  ,  जिससे   था  been  संस्थापित  in  1909  .
It  प्रारंभ  with four  टीमों  and , through a series  of  expansions , contractions ,  और   relocations  ,  the   लीग  is now composed of  30   क्रियाशील  franchises .
the  nation  to  which the  नाम  of the league  originally  referred was Canada  ,  although  the   लीग   रै  now been  binational   चूंकि   1924   जब   it   विस्तारित  into  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  .
बाद  a  श्रमिक  dispute  कि   led  to the cancellation  of  the  संपूर्ण   2004–05  season ,  the  league resumed  खेल  under  a  new collective  bargaining  agreement that included  a  salary cap .
In  2009  ,  the   एनएचएल  enjoyed record highs  in   शर्तें  of  sponsorships  , attendance , and television  ऑडियंस  .
The  एनएचएल  draws many highly  skilled  players from all over the world  और   फिलहाल   रै  players from  परिचय   20   अलग   देशों  .
हालांकि   canadians   have  historically  गठित  the majority  of  the players  in  the NHL ,  over   the  past four  प्लस  decades  the   percentages   of  US and European players have increased both  क्युकी   of  the  एनएचएल   's  continued expansion  इससे  six to thirty clubs  चूंकि  1967 , and the increased  उपलब्धता  of  अत्यधिक  skilled European players .
This  is  the complete list of  the  ratified  और  unratified amendments to  the  United  राज्य  Constitution  जिससे   प्राप्त  the approval of  the  United  राज्य   कॉंग्रेस   .
Twenty-seven amendments have  महरूम   ratified  since  the  original signing  of  the Constitution  ,  the first  टेन  of which are known  collectively   as  the  विधेयक  of Rights .
The procedure  लिये   amending  the  संयुक्त  States  संविधान  is governed  by  Article  v  of the original text .
There have been  अनेक  other  प्रस्ताव   लिये   amendments  to the  संयुक्त  States  संविधान  introduced in  कॉंग्रेस  , but not  सुपुर्द  to the states .
पहले   an  amendment  can   लो   प्रभाव  ,  it  must  be  proposed to the states by a  two-thirds   vote  of  दोनो   घरों   of  Congress or  by   a  convention ( known as  an   आलेख  V convention  )   पुकारा  by two-thirds  of   the  states  ,   और  ratified  by   three-fourths  of the states  or  by  three-fourths   of  conventions thereof  ,  the method of ratification being  संकल्पित  by Congress  at   the   समय  of proposal .
To date  ,  no  सम्मेलन  for proposing  amendments   रै  been  पुकारा   by   the   राज्य  , and  तभी   once—in  1933  लिये   the  ratification of  the   twenty-first  amendment —has the convention  विधि  of  अनुसमर्थन  been employed  .
fmr  LLC ( Fidelity  प्रबन्धन   और  Research ) or  वफ़ादारी  Investments is an  अमरीकी  multinational financial services corporation .
it  is one  of  the  largest  mutual  निधि  and financial services groups in  the  world  .
It  थी  founded in  1946  and  serves  North  अमरीकी   निवेशकों   .
Fidelity Ventures  is   इसके  venture capital arm .
वफ़ादारी  International Limited  (  FIL  )  , was an international  संबद्ध  founded  in  1969 ,  सेवारत   सबसे   देशों  in  the  rest of  the  world  .
In September 2011 ,  फील  was rebranded as 'Fidelity  विश्वव्यापी   निवेश  ' .
Fidelity Investments manages a large  परिवार   of  mutual  निधि   ,  provides fund distribution  और   निवेश  advice services , as well as providing discount brokerage services ,  रिटायरमेंट   सेवाएं   ,  wealth management  ,  securities  निष्पादन  and  क्लीयरेंस   ,   जीवन  insurance and a number  of  other services  .
जून  2006  थी   the  sixth  माह  of  कि   साल   .
It  began   on   a  Thursday and  ended  after  30   दिनों  on  a   शुक्रवार   the   following  events  भी  occurred during the month:
Sociology  is   the   वैज्ञानिक  study of  इंसान  society  और   इसके   origins  , development , organizations ,  और  institutions .
it  is a  सोशल   विज्ञान  which uses various  विधि  of empirical  छानबीन  and critical  विश्लेषण   to   develop  a body of knowledge about human  सोशल  activity , structures , and functions  .
a   लक्ष्य  for many sociologists is to conduct research which  may   be  applied directly to social policy  और  welfare  ,  while others focus  primarily  on refining the  सैद्धांतिक   समझना   of  social processes  .
विषय  matter  सीमाएँ  from the micro  स्तर  of individual agency and interaction to  the  macro  स्तर  of  प्रणालियों  and the social  ढांचा   .
the  traditional focuses of  समाजशास्त्र   शामिल   सोशल   स्तरीकरण   ,  social  क्लास  , culture ,  रेस  and ethnicity ,  लिंग   और  sexuality ,  सोशल   गतिशीलता  , religion , secularization ,  विधि  , and  deviance  .
as  all spheres of  इंसान  activity are  प्रभावित  by the interplay between social structure and individual  एजेंसी  , sociology has gradually  विस्तारित   इसके  focus to  further   विषय   ,   ऐसे  as health , medical  ,   सैन्य   और   penal   संस्थानों   ,  the Internet ,  पर्यावरणीय   समाजशास्त्र   ,   राजनैतिक   अर्थव्यवस्था   और  the  भूमिका   of   सोशल  activity in the development of  वैज्ञानिक   ज्ञान   .
The  दायरा  of  सोशल  scientific methods  रै  also expanded .
Social  शोधकर्ताओं   चित्रण  upon a variety of  गुणात्मक  and quantitative techniques .
The  भाषाई   और   सांस्कृतिक  turns of  the   mid-twentieth   सदी   led   to  increasingly interpretative , hermeneutic ,  और   philosophic  approaches  to  the analysis  of  society  .
conversely   ,  recent  दशकों  have seen the  वृद्धि  of new analytically , mathematically and  computationally   कठोर   तकनीकों  , such as  agent-based   मॉडलिंग   और  social network analysis .
समाजशास्त्र   चाहिए   नहीं   be   उलझन  with  विभिन्न   सामान्य  social studies courses  जिससे  bear  छोटी   संबंध   to  sociological theory or  सोशल   विज्ञान   शोध  methodology  .
Thunder is the sound caused by  बिजली   .
depending   on  the nature  of  the  बिजली   और  distance  of   the   श्रोता   ,  thunder can range from a  शार्प  ,  लाउड   क्रैक  to  a  long ,  कम  rumble  (   brontide  ) .
The sudden  बढ़ाएँ   in  pressure  और  temperature  इससे  lightning produces rapid expansion  of   the   एयर   surrounding  and  भीतर   a  bolt of  बिजली  .
in   फेरे  , this  विस्तार   of  air  creates   a   सोनिक  shock wave , similar  to  a sonic boom ,  जिससे   produces  the sound of thunder  ,  often  referred  to  as   a  clap  ,   क्रैक  , or  peal   of   थंडर  .
The  अलहदा   of  the lightning can  be   गणना   by   the  listener  आधारित  on  the   समय   अंतराल  from  जब  the lightning is seen  to  when  the  sound is  सुना  .
पालमा  ( , , )  ,   in  full  पालमा   de  Mallorca , is the major  नगर   और  port on the island of Majorca ( Mallorca ) and  पूंजी   नगर  of the  autonomous  community of the  balearic  Islands  in  Spain  .
the  names Ciutat  de  Mallorca ( City of Majorca  )  and  ciutat   (  City ) were used  पहले  the  युद्ध  of the  स्पेनी  Succession  और  are  स्टिल   प्रयुक्त   by  people  in  Majorca .
However , the  आधिकारिक  name was  mallorca  , the  वही   as  the island .
It is situated on the  दक्षिण   coast  of the island  on  the Bay of  पालमा  .
As  of   the   2009   जनसांख्यिकी  ,  the  population  of  the city of Palma  उचित  was  401,270  , and the population  of  the entire urban area was 517,285  ,  ranking as  the  twelfth  largest   शहरी  area of  स्पेन  .
लगभग   हाफ  of  the  total population  of  Majorca live in Palma .
the  Cabrera  द्वीपसमूह   ,   हालांकि  widely  अलग   इससे  Palma  उचित  ,  is  administratively considered part of  the   नगरपालिका  .
इसके   विमानक्षेत्र  , Son  सन्त  Joan , serves over 22 million  यात्री  each  साल  .
the   marivent   राजमहल  was offered  by  the city to  the  then  प्रिंस   जुआन   कार्लोस   i   of  Spain  .
the  royals have since  खर्च  their  गर्मियाँ   छुट्टियाँ  in Palma .
luthor  redirects  यहाँ  .
लिये  other  उपयोग  , see Luther (  बहुविकल्पी   )  .
Alexander  जोसेफ  ``  लेक्स  '' Luthor is  a   fictional  character  ,   a  supervillain appearing in comic books published  by  DC Comics .
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman ,  और   as   a  high-status supervillain , has also come into  विरोध   साथ   बैटमैन   और   अन्य  superheroes in  the  DC Universe  .
निर्मित  by Jerry Siegel and Joe  shuster  ,  the  character  पहला  appeared in  कार्रवाई  Comics #  23  (  अप्रैल  1940 )  .
Luthor is described as `` a  power-mad  , evil scientist  ''   of  high intelligence and  अविश्वसनीय   technological  prowess  .
Luthor 's goals  typically  center on  हत्या  Superman  ,  the  foremost  obstacle to achieving  the  villain  's   megalomaniacal  goals .
Despite periodically  wearing   a   संचालित  exoskeleton , Luthor  रै  traditionally  lacked   superpowers   or  a dual  पहचान  .
the   अक्षर  was originally depicted  as  a mad scientist  जो  , in the vein of  गूदा   novels  , wreaks  कहर  on the world with  उसके  futuristic weaponry  .
in  his earliest  दिखावे  , Luthor  is   दिखाया  with  a   पूरा   सिर  of red  बाल   .
despite   इस   ,   the  character later became hairless  as   the  result of  an   कलाकार  's mistake .
A  1960   स्टोरी   by  Jerry  siegel   विस्तारित  upon  luthor   's   उत्पत्ति  and motivations , revealing  उसे  to be  a  childhood friend of  सुपरमैन  's who lost his  बाल  when  a  fire  नष्ट  his laboratory ; Luthor vowed revenge  .
following  the 1985 limited  श्रेणी   संकट   on   अनन्त  Earths ,  the  character  थी  re-imagined as  a   machiavellian  industrialist and  white-collar  criminal  ,  even  briefly   सेवारत  as President  of  the United  राज्य  .
in  recent years ,  विभिन्न   लेखक  have revived Luthor 's mad scientist persona  इससे  the 1940s  .
The character  थी  ranked as  the  8th  महानतम   विलेन   by   जादूगर  on its 100 Greatest  खलनायक   of   सब  Time list .
IGN 's list  of  the Top  100   कॉमिक  Book  खलनायक  of  सब  Time ranked Luthor as  #  4 .
Luthor  is  also  वर्णित  as  a  `` megavillain ''  by   कॉमिक  book critic  पीटर   sanderson   ,   एक  of a few  genre-crossing  villains  जिनकी  adventures take place  ``  in  a   संसार  in which  the  ordinary  कानून  of nature are  थोड़ा   निलंबित  '' ;  वर्ण   ऐसे  as Professor Moriarty  ,  Count Dracula ,  hannibal   lecter  , Doctor Doom ,  और   darth   vader   ,   भी  fit this description .
मार्टिन  Luther King , Jr. Day is a United  राज्य   संघीय  holiday marking the birthday of  रेव  .  dr.  Martin Luther King , Jr  .
it  is observed on the third  सोमवार   of   जनवरी  each  साल  ,  जिससे  is around the time of King  's  birthday ,  जनवरी   15  .
the   फ्लोटिंग  holiday is similar to holidays  नियत  under the Uniform Monday  अवकाश  Act  ,  though the  अधिनियम   predated   the   स्थापना  of Martin Luther  किंग  , Jr. Day by  15   सालो   .
King was the chief spokesman for  nonviolent  activism in  the  civil rights movement  ,   जिससे   सफलतापूर्वक  protested  जातिगत   पक्षपात  in federal  और  state law .
the  campaign  लिये  a federal holiday in King 's honor began  जल्द  after his  हत्या  in  1968   .
Ronald Reagan signed the  अवकाश   into   विधि  in  1983   ,   और   it  was  पहला   observed  on January 20 ,  1986  .
At first  ,   कुछ   राज्य  resisted observing  the  holiday  as  such  ,  giving  it   वैकल्पिक  names  or  combining it with  अन्य  holidays  .
It  थी  officially observed  in  all  50  states for  the  first time  in  2000  .
The  कैमरा   फोन  solution allows  तत्काल   sharing   of  pictures .
As  it   's  automatic and  तत्काल  , the user does  नहीं  have to use  a  cable or removable media  to  connect  to   a   निजी  computer  .
a   कैमरा   फोन   is   a   मोबाईल   फोन  which  is   समर्थ   to   कैप्चर   स्टिल  photographs ( and  प्रायः   वीडियो   )   .
Since early in  the  21st century the  बहुमत   of  mobile phones  in   उपयोग  are  कैमरा  phones .
Most camera phones are simpler than separate  डिजिटल  cameras .
Their usual  फिक्स्ड   फ़ोकस   lenses  and smaller  सेंसर   सीमा  their performance  in   ग़रीब  lighting  .
lacking  a  शारीरिक   शटर  , most  have  a  long   शटर   lag   .
Flash  ,   जहाँ  present ,  is  usually  कमजोर   .
ऑप्टिकल   जूम   और  tripod screws  हैं   विरल  .
कुछ   भी  lack a USB connection , removable  मेमोरी  card ,  or   अन्य  way of transferring  उनके  pictures more quickly than by the phone 's  अंतर्निहित   संचार  feature .
कुछ  of the  अधिक   महंगी  camera phones have only  a  few of these  तकनीकी  disadvantages ,  जिससे   लागू   सबसे  acutely  in  low light conditions and in  कोई  case  have  not inhibited their widespread use .
सबसे  model  लाइनों  improve  in   ये  regards every  साल   or  two .
Some  ,  such  as   the  Droid Incredible only have a  मेनू   चुनाव  to start an application program to activate  the  camera .
अन्य  , such  as   the  BlackBerry Storm 2  ,   droid  X ,  मोटोरोला  V980 and Nokia 5800 also  have  a separate camera  बटन  for  quickness  and  convenience   .
Windows Phones can  be   विन्यस्त  to  operate  as  a  camera even  if   the   फोन   is  asleep  .
कुछ   कैमरा   फोन  are  designed  to resemble separate  low-end  digital compact  कैमरे  in appearance and  to  some extent in features and picture quality ,  और  are  ब्रांडेड   as  both mobile  फोन   और   कैमरे   ,  including certain Sony phones  .
The  प्रिंसिपल  advantages of camera  फोन   हैं   लागत   और  compactness  ;   बेशक   लिये  a  उपयोक्ता  who  carries  a mobile phone  वैसे   ,  the additional  आकार  and cost are negligible  .
Smartphones  कि   हैं  camera  फोन   may  run mobile applications to  add   सामर्थ्य   ऐसे  as  geotagging   और  image  stitching  .
A few high end  फोन   can   उपयोग  their touch screen to  सीधा   उनके  camera to  फ़ोकस   on  a  particular  object in  the  field of  दृश्य  ,  giving  even  an  inexperienced  उपयोक्ता   a  degree of focus  कंट्रोल  exceeded  तभी  by seasoned  फ़ोटोग्राफ़र   using  manual focus .
``  Whatever  happened   to  the  man  of Tomorrow  ?  '' is a 1986 comic  किताब  story  featuring  the  dc  Comics  अक्षर  of Superman .
Written  by   एलन   मूर   साथ  help from long-time , and  जल्द  to be  retiring   ,   सुपरमैन   एडिटर  , Julius  schwartz  ,  the  story  थी   प्रकाशित  in two parts  ,  beginning in  सुपरमैन   #  423  और   समाप्ति   in   कार्रवाई   कॉमिक्स  # 583 ,  दोनो   प्रकाशित  in  सितंबर   1986   .
The story  थी   drawn  by  long-time  artist Curt Swan , in his final  प्रमुख   योगदान  to the Superman titles  ,   और  was inked by  जार्ज  Pérez in the issue of  सुपरमैन  and Kurt Schaffenberger in  the  issue of  कार्रवाई  Comics  .
The story was  an   काल्पनिक  tale which  बताई  the final  स्टोरी  of  the   चांदी   आयु   सुपरमैन   और  his long history , which was  होने   rebooted   following   the  events of  संकट   on  Infinite Earths ,  पहले   उसके  modern introduction in  the   जॉन  Byrne series  ,  The Man of Steel .
Moore  चाही  his  प्लाट  to honor  the   long   इतिहास  of  the  character  और  to serve as a  पूरा  conclusion to  उसके  mythology .
the  story is  a  frame story set ten years  बाद  Superman  थी   पिछला  seen  ,  where Lois Lane  recounts   the  tale  of   the   समाप्त  of Superman 's career  to  a reporter from  the  Daily Planet .
Her story includes numerous  हिंसक  attacks against  सुपरमैन  by his enemies  ,  the public  रहस्योद्घाटन  of his secret  पहचान  of Clark Kent  और  a  क्रमांक  of deaths of  those  closest to him  .
The  स्टोरी  has been cited  as  one  of   the  best stories of  the   अक्षर  of Superman  ,  and critics  और   ऑडियंस   अक्सर   चुनें  it as one of the most memorable comics ever  प्रकाशित   .
It is  प्रयुक्त  as an example  of  how  to   बंद  the  long-time  continuity  of   a  comic  किताब  character  .
The  स्टोरी   's  legacy has  endured  with  समान  stories written as  श्रद्धांजलि   to   it  .
The title is a reference to one of  the   nicknames  of Superman as the  man  of Tomorrow , and  थी  used in the title of another Superman .
The Bugatti  veyron  EB 16.4  is   a  mid-engined  ग्रैंड  touring car ,  designed  and  विकसित  by  the  Volkswagen  समूह   और   manufactured  in  molsheim   ,   फ़्रांस   by  Bugatti Automobiles  s.a.s  .
the  Super  खेल  version  of   the  Veyron is the fastest street-legal production  car  in  the  world  ,   साथ  a top speed of .
The original  संस्करण  has a top speed  of   .
it   थी   नामित  Car of the  दशक  ( 2000–2009 )  by   the  BBC  टेलीविज़न   कार्यक्रम  Top Gear  .
the  standard Veyron  जीती  Top Gears Best  car   चलित  All Year  पुरस्कार   in  2005  .
On  6  April  2013  ,  bugatti  set the  रिकार्ड  for the fastest  roadster  in  the  world with  the   veyron   ग्रैंड   खेल   vitesse  ,  reaching   on   औसत   a  top speed  of  .
the  Veyron  's  chief designer  थी   hartmut  Warkuss ,  और  the exterior was designed  by  Jozef  kabaň  of  volkswagen  , with much of  the  engineering  कार्य  being conducted under the  मार्गदर्शन  of  अभियान्त्रिकी   मुख्य  Wolfgang  schreiber  .
A  क्रमांक  of special  विसंगतियाँ  have  महरूम  produced .
in  December 2010 , Bugatti began offering  prospective  buyers the ability to  मनपसंद  exterior and interiors  रंग  by  using  the Veyron  16.4  Configurator application on  the   marque   's  official website  .
The institution  of  the  eucharist   रै  been a key theme  in  the depictions of the Last Supper  in  Christian  आर्ट   ,  as in  इस   16th-century  Juan de Juanes painting .
``  At the Last Supper , on the night  he  was betrayed  ,   हमारी  Savior instituted  the  Eucharistic sacrifice of  उसके  Body and Blood  .  ''
( Catechism  of  the Catholic Church 1323  )
eucharist  in the  कैथोलिक  Church refers to  दोनो   the   जश्न   of  the  द्रव्यमान  ,  कि  is  ,   the  Eucharist liturgy , and the bread and  वाइन  which after the  प्रतिष्ठापना   हैं   transubstantiated  ( changed in  पदार्थ  ) into the body and blood of  यीशु  Christ ,  रब   और  God  ,   a  declaration formulated by the Council  of   ट्रेंट  with  an  anathema against anyone who denied this .
धन्य   sacrament  is a devotional term used in the Roman  कैथोलिक  Church to  refer  to the Eucharistic species ( the Body  और  Blood  of   मसीह   )  .
the   following   is  a  सूची   of  colleges and universities  in   the  U.S. state of  louisiana   .
A short story  is  a  ब्रैड   कार्य   of  literature , usually  लिखा  in narrative prose .
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling  परंपराओं   in   the  17th century  ,   the  short  स्टोरी  has grown to  encompass  a  देह   of   कार्य   so   विविध   as  to defy easy characterization .
At  इसके   सबसे   prototypical  the  छोटी  story  सुविधाएँ  a small cast of named  वर्ण  ,  और  focuses  on  a self-contained  घटना  with the  intent  of  evoking  a `` single effect '' or  मनोदशा   .
in  so doing ,  छोटी   कहानियां  make use  of   प्लाट  ,  अनुनाद   ,  and  अन्य   डायनेमिक  components  to  a far  वृहद  degree than is typical of an anecdote ,  yet   to   a  far  lesser  degree  than  a  अनोखा  .
While the  छोटी   स्टोरी   is   largely  distinct from the  अनोखा  ,  लेखक   of  both generally  चित्रण   इससे  a  आम   पूल   of  literary  तकनीकों  .
Short stories  have  no set length .
in  terms  of   शब्द  count  वहीँ  is  no  official  demarcation  between  an  anecdote  ,  a short story  ,  and a novel  .
Rather  ,  the  रूप  's  पैरामीटर्स  are given by the rhetorical  और  practical context in  जिससे  a given  स्टोरी  is  उत्पादित  and considered , so that  कया  constitutes a short story  may   differ  between genres  ,  countries  ,   eras   ,   और   टीकाकारों  .
Like the novel ,  the   छोटी  story 's  predominant  shape reflects  the  demands of the  उपलब्धियाँ  markets  लिये  publication  ,  and the  एवोल्यूशन   of  the form seems  closely   tied   to   the   एवोल्यूशन   of  the publishing industry  और   the  submission  दिशानिर्देश   of   इसके  constituent houses .
The  छोटी   स्टोरी  has been  माना  both  an   शिक्षुता  form  preceding  more  lengthy  works ,  और  a crafted  रूप   in   इसके   अपना  right , collected  साथ   in  books of  समान   लंबाई  , price  ,  and distribution  as  novels  .
Short  स्टोरी  writers may define  उनके  works as part of the artistic  और  personal expression of the form .
They  may  also attempt to  resist   categorization  by genre  और   फिक्स्ड  form .
Area codes  in  Michigan
क्षेत्रफल   कोड   810  is the telephone area  कोड  serving  पूर्वी  Michigan  .
The  raccoon  ( , Procyon lotor  )  ,  sometimes  spelled racoon  ,   भी  known as the common raccoon , North American  raccoon  , northern raccoon and  colloquially   as  coon , is a medium-sized mammal native to North America  .
The  raccoon  is the  largest  of the  procyonid   परिवार  , having  a  body length  of   और  a  देह  weight  of  .
इसके  grayish  कोट   ज़्यादातर  consists of dense underfur which insulates against cold weather  .
Two  of  the raccoon 's  सबसे  distinctive  सुविधाएँ  are its extremely dexterous  सामने  paws  और  its  फेशियल   मुखौटा  , which  हैं  themes in the mythology  of   अनेक  Native  अमरीकी   जनजातियों  .
raccoons  are noted for their  प्रज्ञा  ,  साथ  studies showing that  वे  are  समर्थ  to  याद   the   समाधान  to  कार्य  for  up   to   तीन  years  .
The diet of the  omnivorous  raccoon , which is usually nocturnal  ,   consists   of  about 40 %  invertebrates   ,   33  % plant foods  ,  and 27  %  vertebrates .
the  original habitats of  the  raccoon  हैं  deciduous and mixed  वनों  ,  लकिन  due  to  their  adaptability  they  have  extended  उनके  range  to  mountainous  क्षेत्रों   ,   तटीय  marshes ,  और   शहरी  areas  ,  where some homeowners consider  उन्हें  to be pests  .
as  a result  of   escapes  and deliberate  introductions   in  the mid-20th century  ,  raccoons are  अभी  also distributed across the  यूरोपीय   मेनलैंड   ,   the   काकेशस  region and  जापानी  .
हालांकि   previously   विचार   to  be  एकान्त  , there is  अभी  evidence that raccoons engage in gender-specific social  बर्ताव  .
सम्बन्धित  females  प्रायः   share   a  common  क्षेत्रफल   ,  while  unrelated   males  live together in groups of up to four  पशु  to  maintain  their positions against  विदेशी  males  दौरान  the  समागम  season ,  और  other potential invaders  .
घर  range sizes  vary   anywhere  from  3   हेक्टेयर  ( 7  एकड़  ) for  महिलाओं   in   शहरों  to 50 km2  (   20  sq mi  )  for males  in   prairies  .
बाद  a gestation period  of  about 65 days , two to five young , known as  ``  kits '' ,  हैं  born  in  spring .
the   kits   हैं  subsequently raised  by  their mother  जबतक   dispersion  in late fall  .
हालांकि   खिलाते  raccoons  have   महरूम   ज्ञात  to live over  20  years  ,  their average life  प्रत्याशा  in  the  wild  is  only 1.8  to   3.1  years .
in  many  क्षेत्रों  ,  शिकार   और   vehicular   चोट  are  the   दो  most  आम  causes of  मौत  .
The  2010   हैती  earthquake  थी  a catastrophic  परिमाण   7.0  Mw earthquake ,  साथ   an   उपरिकेंद्र  near the town of  léogâne  ( Ouest Department  )  ,  लगभग  west of Port-au-Prince , Haiti  's   पूंजी   .
The earthquake occurred at 16:53 local  समय   (  21:53  utc  )  on   मंगलवार  ,  12  January 2010  .
By 24 January ,  at   तनिक   52  aftershocks measuring 4.5  or  greater  था  been  अंकित  .
An estimated  तीन   लाख   लोगों  were affected  by  the  भूकंप  .
The highest  विश्वसनीय  death count was estimated at  220,000  .
Haitian  सरकारी   estimates  were higher  .
the  government of  हैती  estimated  कि   250,000  residences and 30,000  वाणिज्यिक   इमारतें  had collapsed or were  severely  damaged  .
the  earthquake  caused  major damage in Port-au-Prince  ,  Jacmel  और   अन्य   settlements  in the region .
अनेक  notable landmark buildings  यहूद  significantly  क्षतिग्रस्त   or   नष्ट   ,   सहित   the   अध्यक्षीय  Palace  ,  the National Assembly  भवन  ,  the   port-au-prince   गिरजाघर  ,  और   the  main jail  .
Among  those  killed were Archbishop of Port-au-Prince Joseph  सर्ज   miot   ,  and opposition leader Micha  gaillard   .
the   मुख्यालय  of the  संयुक्त  Nations Stabilization  मिशन  in  हैती   (   minustah  )  ,   स्तिथ  in  the  capital , collapsed  ,   हत्या   अनेक  , including the Mission  's  Chief ,  hédi  Annabi .
अनेक  countries responded to  appeals  for humanitarian  सहायता   ,   pledging   निधि   और   dispatching  rescue and  चिकित्सा  teams , engineers  और  support personnel  .
संचार   प्रणालियों  , air  ,  land  ,  and sea transport facilities  ,   अस्पताल  , and  विद्युत  networks had  महरूम  damaged by the  भूकंप   ,  which  hampered   बचाव  and aid  प्रयत्न   ;  confusion over who  थी  in charge ,  एयर  traffic congestion ,  और  problems with prioritisation  of  flights  further  complicated early  राहत   कार्य   .
Port-au-Prince 's morgues were  अभिभूत   साथ   tens  of  हज़ारों   of   लाशें   .
ये  had to be buried in  द्रव्यमान  graves .
As  छुटकारा  tailed off  ,   आपूर्तियाँ   ,  medical care  और  sanitation  became   प्राथमिकताएं  .
Delays  in  aid  वितरण   led   to   एंग्री   appeals  from aid  मजदूर  and  survivors  , and looting and sporadic  हिंसा   यहूद   observed  .
on  22 January  the  United Nations  विख्यात  that the  आपात  phase of the relief  आपरेशन   थी  drawing to  a  close , and on the following  दिन  the Haitian government officially called off the  ढूंढें  for survivors .
मिस्टर  Ed is a  fictional  talking horse ,  originally  appearing in short stories by Walter  R.   ब्रूक्स  , and later  in  an American television  हालात   कॉमेडी   उत्पादित   by  Filmways that  पहला   aired  in  अनुप्रयोग  from  जनवरी   5  to  जुलाई   2   ,  1961 ,  और  then  on  CBS from  अक्तूबर   1   ,  1961 to February  6   ,  1966 .
The stars of  the   दिखाएँ  were Mister  ed   ,   a  palomino  घोड़ा   जो   could  `` talk '' ,  निभाई   by  gelding Bamboo  harvester  and voiced by  पूर्व   पश्चिमी  star Allan Lane  (  who  गई   uncredited  for  the   संपूर्ण  length of  the  series ) ,  और  his owner  ,  an  eccentric  and enormously  klutzy   ,  yet friendly , architect named  wilbur  Post ( Alan  यंग   )  .
much   of  the  कार्यक्रम  's  ह्यूमर  stemmed from  the   फैक्ट  Mister  ed  would  बोलो  only to Wilbur ,  as   खूब  as  ed   's   सुर्खी  as  a  troublemaker .
अन्य   कार्यशील  jokes centered  on  Wilbur  's  character  होने  a huge  klutz   और   inadvertently  causing harm  to  himself  or  others .
According to the show  's  producer , Arthur Lubin  ,   यंग  was chosen as  the  lead character because  he   ``   बस   लगा  like the sort  of   guy   a   घोड़ा   होता  talk to '' .
Lubin , a friend  of   mae  West  ,  scored a coup  by   persuading  the screen icon to guest star  in   एक   एपीसोड  .
in  the  संयुक्त  States  ,   reruns  aired on  उपनाम  at  नाइट   इससे   कूच  3  ,  1986  ,  to  फ़रवरी  1 , 1993  .
Sister station TV Land also  reran  the show  इससे  1996–98  और  again  इससे   2003-06  .
The series  is  currently broadcast every  morning   on   इस  TV , along  साथ  Highway  पैट्रोल  ,  और  The  पैटी  Duke  दिखाएँ  .
it   is  also  फिलहाल   ब्रॉडकास्ट   on  Hallmark Movie  चैनल  .
as   of   जनवरी  1 , 2011 ,  the   पहला   दो  seasons  of   the   दिखाएँ   हैं  available on Hulu .
the  Rapture is a  पद   in  Christian eschatology  जिससे   refers  to the `` being  caught   up  ''  discussed  in 1 Thessalonians  4:17   ,   जब  the `` dead  in   मसीह  '' and  ``  we who  हैं  alive and  remain  '' will  be   ``   caught  up in the clouds  ''   to   मिलें  `` the Lord  in  the air ''  .
The  पद  `` Rapture '' is  प्रयुक्त   in  at least  दो  senses  .
In the  pre-tribulation  view , a group of people  होगा  be  बाएँ  behind  on   धरती   बाद  another  समूह  literally leaves ``  to  meet the Lord in the air .  ''
This is now the  सबसे  common use of the term  ,  especially among  fundamentalist   ईसाइयों   और  in the United States .
The  अन्य  , older use of  the  term `` Rapture '' is simply as a  पर्याय  for the  फाइनल   क़यामत   generally  ,  बगैर  a belief  कि  a  समूह  of people is  बाएँ  behind on earth  लिये  an extended Tribulation  काल  after  the  events of  1  Thessalonians  4:17  .
This  भेद  is important as  कुछ   प्रकार  of  christianity   never   refer   to  `` the  rapture   ''   in  religious education  ,  but might  उपयोग   the  older and  अधिक  general sense  of   the   शब्द  `` rapture  ''   in   referring  to what happens during the  फाइनल   क़यामत  .
There  हैं   अनेक  views  among  Christians  regarding  the timing  of  Christ 's  वापसी  (  सहित  whether  it   होगा   occur   in   एक   इवेंट  or  दो  ) , and  विभिन्न  views  regarding   the  destination  of   the  aerial  महफ़िल  described in 1 Thessalonians 4  .
denominations   ऐसे   as   रोमन  Catholics , Orthodox  ईसाइयों   ,  Lutheran Christians ,  और  Reformed  ईसाइयों   मानना   in  a rapture  तभी  in  the  sense  of   a  general  फाइनल   क़यामत  ,  जब  Christ  रिटर्न  a  सिंगल   समय  .
They do not  मानना  that  a  group of  लोगों  is  बाएँ  behind  on   धरती  for  an  extended Tribulation period  बाद  the events  of  1 Thessalonians 4:17  .
Pre-tribulation rapture  धर्मशास्त्र  was developed  in   the   1830s   by   जॉन   नेल्सन  Darby and  the   plymouth   brethren   ,  and popularized in the United  राज्य   in  the  जल्दी   20th  century by  the  wide circulation of the Scofield  सन्दर्भ  Bible  .
क्रिस   नाथन   humphries  ( born February 6 ,  1985  ) is  an   अमरीकी   पेशेवर   बास्केट   खिलाड़ी  with  the   ब्रुकलीन  Nets .
the  Philistine  शहरों   of   गाजा  , Ashdod , Ashkelon , Ekron  ,  and Gath
the  Philistines  (   ,  ,  ,  or ;  ,   plištim  ) , Pleshet or Peleset ,  यहूद  a people who as part of the Sea Peoples  appeared  in the southern  तटीय   क्षेत्रफल  of  canaan   at   the  beginning  of  the Iron Age ( circa 1175 BC )  ,   सबसे  probably  इससे  the Aegean region .
According to  the   बाइबल   ,  they ruled  the  five  city-states  ( the `` Philistine Pentapolis '' ) of Gaza ,  ashkelon  ,  ashdod  ,  ekron   और   gath  , from Wadi  गाजा   in  the south to  the  Yarqon  नदी  in the  उत्तर  ,  लकिन   साथ  no  फिक्स्ड   किनारा   to   the   ईस्ट  .
The  बाइबल  paints  उन्हें  as  the  Kingdom of Israel  's  most dangerous  दुश्मन   .
Originating somewhere  in   the  Aegean  ,   उनके   जनसांख्यिकी  was around  25,000   in  the 12th century BC ,  उठती   to   a  peak of 30,000 in  the  11th  सदी  BC , of  जिससे  the Aegean  तत्व  was not more than half the total ,  और  perhaps much  कम  .
Nothing  is   ज्ञात  for certain about the original language  or  languages of the Philistines ,  however  they were not part  of  the  सामीती  Canaanite population  .
There is some limited  प्रमाण   in  favour of the assumption  कि  the  philistines  were Indo-European-speakers either from Greece and/or Luwian  अध्यक्षों  from  the  coast of  एशिया  Minor .
philistine-related   शब्द   मिला  in  the   बाइबल  are  नहीं   सामीती  , and can in  कुछ  cases ,  साथ  reservations , be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots  .
by  the beginning of the  1st  Millennium BCE they had  अपनाया  the  सामान्य   canaanite  language  of  the region  .
The  हथियारबंद  Services Vocational Aptitude Battery ( ASVAB  )   is   a  multiple  चुनाव  test , administered  by   the   संयुक्त  States Military Entrance Processing  कमांड  , used to determine qualification  लिये  enlistment in the  संयुक्त  States  हथियारबंद  forces  .
It  is  often offered to  अमरीकी  high school  विद्यार्थी  when they are  in  the  10th  , 11th  और  12th grade ,  हालांकि  anyone eligible  लिये  enlistment  may   लो  it .
Although the test  is  administered by  the   सैन्य   ,   it   is  not (  और   never  has been ) a  आवश्यकता  that  a   test-taker  with  a  qualifying score enlist  in   the   हथियारबंद  forces  .
in  financial  हिसाब  ,  a   संतुलन  sheet  or  statement  of   वित्तीय  position  is  a summary of  the   वित्तीय   balances   of  a  एकमात्र  proprietorship , a  कारोबार   साझेदारी   ,  a corporation or  अन्य  business  संगठन   ,   ऐसे  as an LLC  or  an LLP .
Assets ,  देनदारी  and ownership equity  हैं  listed as  of  a  विशिष्ट  date  ,  such  as   the  end of its  वित्तीय   साल  .
a   संतुलन  sheet is  प्रायः   वर्णित  as  a  ``  स्नैपशॉट  of a  कम्पनी   's   वित्तीय   कंडीशन   ''  .
Of the  चार  basic  वित्तीय   कथन  , the  संतुलन  sheet  is  the only statement  जिससे   applies  to a single point  in   समय  of a business  '   पंचांग   साल   .
A  मानक  company balance sheet has  तीन  parts  :   एसेट   ,  liabilities  और  ownership  इक्विटी  .
the  main categories  of   एसेट   हैं  usually listed first , and typically in order  of  liquidity .
एसेट  are  followed   by   the  liabilities  .
The  अंतर   between  the  एसेट  and the liabilities is known as equity  or   the  net assets or the  जाल   लायक  or capital of  the  company and according to the accounting equation  ,  net  लायक  must  बराबर   एसेट  minus liabilities  .
another   रास्ता  to  dekh  at the same  समीकरण   is  that assets equals  देनदारी   प्लस   मालिक   's   इक्विटी  .
Looking  at   the  equation in this  रास्ता  shows  कैसा  assets were financed :  either  by borrowing money (  देयता   )  or  by   using  the owner 's money ( owner 's  इक्विटी  )  .
Balance  चादरें   हैं  usually  प्रस्तुत   साथ  assets  in  one section and  देनदारी  and net worth  in  the  अन्य  section  साथ   the   दो  sections `` balancing  .  ''
A business  ऑपरेटिंग   entirely  in cash can  माप  its  profits   by   withdrawing  the entire  बैंको  balance at the end of the period  ,   प्लस  any cash in  हाथ   .
However , many  व्यवसायों  are not paid  तत्काल  ; they build up inventories of  goods  and they acquire buildings and  उपकरण  .
in   अन्य   शब्द   :  businesses have  एसेट  and  so  they  can  not , even  if  they want to , immediately  फेरे  these  into  cash at  the   समाप्त   of  each period .
Often  ,  these businesses  owe   धन  to  आपूर्तिकर्ता  and  to  tax authorities ,  और  the proprietors  do  not withdraw all  उनके   असली   पूंजी  and  profits  at the  समाप्त   of  each  काल  .
In  अन्य  words businesses  भी   have  liabilities  .
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire  ,  commonly  ज्ञात   as  the .17  hmr  , is  a  rimfire  राइफल   कार्ट्रिज   विकसित   by   the  ammunition company Hornady  in  2002 .
it  descended from the .22 Magnum  by   necking  down  the  .22 Magnum  मामला  to  लो  a .17 caliber ( 4.5 mm  )  bullet , and it is more costly to  shoot   than   परंपरागत   .22  caliber  rimfire   कारतूस  .
commonly  loaded with a  17  grain (  1.1   g  )  गोली  , it can  उद्धार  muzzle  गतियाँ  in excess  of  2550 ft/s (  775   m/s  ) .
The Schaumburg Flyers were  a  professional  बेसबॉल   टोली  based in Schaumburg  ,  Illinois , in  the  United  राज्य  .
The Flyers  यहूद  to  be  a charter  सदस्य  of the  उत्तर  American League , which is not affiliated  साथ  Major  लीग  Baseball ,  however  ,  the  team folded  in   कूच  2011  ,   पहले  they began play in  the  NAL .
From the  1999  season to the 2010  ऋतु  ,  the  Flyers played  उनके  home games at Alexian Field ,  निकट   the   एल्गिन  O'Hare Expressway  .
the   टोली   formerly  played in  थंडर  Bay ,  ओंटारियो   ,   जहाँ   वे  were known  as   the  Thunder  खाड़ी   whiskey  Jacks .
the   टोली   थी  originally  a  member  of   the   उत्तरी  League from 1993 to 2010  .
On  जुलाई  27  ,  2009  ,  the Flyers played host to  बैटल  of  the   लिंगों   ii   ,   जिससे   pitted  the Flyers  विरूद्ध  the National Pro Fastpitch  सॉफ्टबॉल   champions   ,  the Chicago Bandits  .
Played  by  official softball rules ,  the  game  थी  seen by an overflow  रिकार्ड  crowd of  8,918   ,   और   थी  won by  the  Bandits 4-2 .
In 1999  ,  the  flyers   नियुक्त   उनके  first  मैनेजर   ,  Ron Kittle .
Kittle  is  best known  लिये  his playing days with the  शिकागो  White Sox , and  पूर्व  Chicago Cubs  और  White  sox  player Greg Hibbard was  the  pitching coach .
दौरान   the   जल्दी  years  of   the   मताधिकार  , Kittle  किया   a  series of  tv   commercials  to  प्रचार  the team ,  using  the  gimmick  `` Ma  kittle  . ''  जहाँ  he played both himself and  उसके  `` Ma . ''
the   विज्ञापन  were successful at  sparking  some initial  ब्याज  in  the  team as  the   flyers  hoped to  चोरी  away fans from the  आसपास  Kane  काउंटी  Cougars .
The ad mimicked the highly  कामयाब   converse  ads  जहाँ   लैरी  Johnson  स्ट्रक्चर   as   दोनो  himself and ``  gramama   .   ''
At the end of the 2001  ऋतु   ,   however   ,  Kittle resigned from his  managerial  position ,  और  Jim  boynewicz  was hired  to  replace him  .
in   2004   ,  the  flyers  made it  to   the  Northern League Championship Series against  the  St. Paul Saints .
Despite leading the  five-game  series  2-1  , Schaumburg  आखिरकार  lost the series .
In  खेल   5   ,  Flyers relief pitcher Lyle Prempas allowed  a   खेल  winning  ग्रैंड  slam by St. Paul infielder Marc Mirizzi in  the   नवीं   inning   .
the   flyers   appeared   in  the  उत्तरी   लीग  Playoffs four  टाइम्स  (  1999  ,  2003  , 2004  ,   2006   )  but  never   जीती  the  चैंपियनशिप  .
Some  प्रसिद्ध   खिलाड़ी  who  निभाई  for the  flyers   यहूद   पूर्व  Oakland A 's  outfielder  Ozzie  canseco   और  former Chicago Cubs  outfielder  Dwight  स्मिथ  .
Rachel Hannah Weisz  (   /  vice /  ;  born  7   कूच  1970  )  is an English film and theatre  अभिनेत्री  and former fashion model  .
Weisz began  उसके  acting  करियर   at   ट्रिनिटी  Hall ,  कैम्ब्रिज  in  the  early 1990s  ,  then  प्रारंभ   working  in television , appearing in Inspector  मोर्स  , the  अंग्रेजों  mini-series  स्कारलेट  and Black  ,   और  the television film Advocates II  .
वो  made her  फिल्मी   début   in  the film Death  यंत्र  ( 1994 )  ,   लकिन  her breakthrough role came in  the  film  कड़ी   प्रतिक्रिया  ( 1996 ) , leading to a high-profile role  as   एवलिन  Carnahan-O'Connell in  the   films  The Mummy ( 1999 ) and The Mummy Returns  (  2001 )  .
अन्य   notable  films featuring  वाइज़  are Enemy at  the  Gates ,  परिचय  a Boy  ,  Constantine , The  फव्वारा  and The Constant  माली  ,  लिये  which she received  an  Academy  पुरस्कार   ,  a Golden  ग्लोब   और   a  Screen Actors  '  Guild  पुरस्कार  for her supporting  भूमिका  as  टेसा   quayle   .
She has been  labelled  an `` English rose '' since her minor  भूमिका  in  चोरी   सौंदर्य   (  1996 ) .
वाइज़   भी  works in theatre .
Her  स्टेज   भेदन   थी  the  1994  revival of Noël  कायर  's play Design  लिये   जीना   ,  which earned her the London Critics  वृत्त   पुरस्कार  for  the  most promising newcomer  .
Weisz 's performances also include  the  1999  donmar   गोदाम   उत्पादन  of Tennessee Williams ' Suddenly  ,   पिछला   गर्मियाँ   ,  and their 2009  पुनरुद्धार   of  A Streetcar  नामित   ख्वाहिश   .
Her portrayal of  blanche   dubois   in   the   latter  play  अर्जित  her the Critics  '  Circle Theatre Award  लिये   बेहतरीन  Actress .
वो  has recently  निभाई  Evanora  in  Oz the  ग्रेट  and  शक्तिशाली   .
the  American  सिविल  War  (  ACW  )   ,  also known  as   the   युद्ध   between  the  राज्य  or  बस  the  सिविल   युद्ध  (  देखिए  naming ) ,  थी  a civil  युद्ध  fought  इससे   1861  to  1865  between  the  United  राज्य  (  the   ``  Union ''  or  the `` North  ''  ) and  अनेक  Southern slave states  कि   घोषित   उनके  secession  और   formed   the  Confederate States of  अमेरिका  ( the  ``  Confederacy  ''   or   the  `` South  ''  ) .
the  war  था   इसके   उत्पत्ति  in the issue  of  slavery  ,  especially the extension  of   गुलामी  into  the   पश्चिमी  territories .
विदेशी  powers  किया  not  intervene   .
बाद   चार  years of  खूनी  combat that  बाएँ  over  600,000  soldiers  मुर्दे  and destroyed much of the South  's  infrastructure  ,  the Confederacy  collapsed   ,  slavery  थी   abolished  ,  और   the   मुश्किल  Reconstruction  प्रक्रम  of restoring national  एकता  and  guaranteeing   अधिकारों  to the freed  स्लेव  began  .
In the  1860  presidential  चुनाव   ,  Republicans , led  by  Abraham Lincoln  ,  opposed  expanding   गुलामी   into  United  राज्य  '  territories  .
Lincoln won , but before his  उद्घाटन  on March 4  ,  1861 ,  सात   cotton-based  slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic  अध्यक्ष  James  बुकानन   और  the incoming Republicans rejected  secession   as   illegal  .
lincoln  's  inaugural  address  घोषित  his administration  होता  not initiate civil war .
Eight  बाकी   स्लेव  states  जारी  to reject  काल्स   लिये  secession .
confederate  forces seized numerous federal forts within  territory  claimed  by  the Confederacy .
a  Peace  सम्मेलन  failed to  ढूँढें   a   सुलह   ,  and both sides prepared for  युद्ध   .
The  confederates  assumed  कि  European countries  यहूद  so dependent on  ``   किंग  Cotton  ``  that they  होता   intervene  ;  none  did  और  none recognized the new  confederate   राज्य  of  अमेरिका  .
hostilities  began on April  12  , 1861 , when  confederate   शक्तियां  fired  upon   फोर्ट   sumter  , a key  फोर्ट  held by Union troops in  दक्षिण   कैरोलिना  .
Lincoln called  लिये  each  राज्य   to  provide troops to retake the fort  ;  consequently , four more  स्लेव   राज्य  joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union  जल्द  controlled  the  border states and established  a   नवल  blockade that crippled the  दक्षिणी   अर्थव्यवस्था   .
The  पूर्वी   थिएटर  was inconclusive  in  1861–62  .
The autumn  1862  Confederate  अभियान   into   मेरीलैंड  (  a  Union state ) ended with Confederate  रिट्रीट  at the  बैटल  of  antietam  ,  dissuading  British  हस्तक्षेप  .
lincoln  issued the Emancipation Proclamation  ,   जिससे  made ending  गुलामी   a  war goal .
to  the  वेस्ट  ,  by  summer 1862 the  संघ  destroyed  the   confederate  river  नेवी  , then much of their western armies  ,  and  the  Union  at  Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at  the   मिसिसिपी  River  .
In  1863  , Robert  E.   ली  's  confederate  incursion north  ended  at the Battle of Gettysburg  .
Western successes led to Ulysses S.  ग्रान्ट  command of  सब   संघ   सेना  in  1864  .
In the Western  थिएटर  , William T. Sherman drove east  to   कैप्चर  Atlanta and marched  to  the sea , destroying  confederate   अवसंरचना   साथ  the way .
The Union  marshaled  the resources and manpower to attack  the  Confederacy  इससे  all  दिशानिर्देश  , and  could  afford to  लड़ो   लड़ाइयों   of  attrition through the  overland   अभियान  towards  रिचमंड  , the Confederate  पूंजी  .
The  defending  Confederate  फौज  failed , leading to  ली  's surrender to  ग्रान्ट   at  Appomattox  अदालत  House  on  April 9  ,  1865  .
the  American Civil War was one of the earliest true  औद्योगिक  wars .
railroads  ,  the  telegraph  ,  steamships  ,   और   mass-produced  weapons  यहूद   employed  extensively .
The mobilization of  civilian   कारखानों   ,   खानों   ,   shipyards   ,  banks , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
it   remains  the  deadliest  war in  अमरीकी  history  ,  resulting  in   the   मौतों   of  an  अनुमानित  750,000 soldiers and  an  undetermined  क्रमांक   of   civilian   हताहत  .
Historian  जॉन  Huddleston estimates the  मौत  toll at  टेन  percent of  सब  Northern males  20–45   सालो  old  ,   और  30  प्रतिशत   of  all Southern white  males  aged  18–40  .
Potato  ब्रैड   is  a  रूप   of  bread  in  which potato  replaces   a   portion  of the  नियमित  wheat  आटा  .
It is  पकाया  in  a   किस्में  of methods ,  सहित   by  baking it  on  a  hot  griddle or  पण   ,  or in  an  oven  .
It may be leavened  or   unleavened  ,  और   may  have a variety  of   अन्य  ingredients  baked   into  it .
the  ratio of  आलू  to  गेहूं  flour varies significantly from  रेसिपी  to  रेसिपी  , with  कुछ  recipes having  a  majority  of   आलू  , and others  having  a majority  of  wheat flour .
Some  व्यंजनों  call for mashed potatoes  ,  with  अन्य   कॉलिंग   लिये   निर्जलित   आलू  flakes  .
it  is  उपलब्धियाँ  as a commercial product in  अनेक  countries  ,   साथ  similar variations in ingredients , cooking method  ,  and  अन्य   परिवर्तनीय   .
The  प्रशांत   समय  Zone  observes  standard time  by  subtracting  आठ  hours from Coordinated  सार्वभौमिक   समय  (  )  .
The clock time in  इस   मण्डल   is  based on  the   औसत  solar time  of  the  120th  meridian west  of   the  Greenwich Observatory .
During daylight saving time  ,  its time  ऑफसेट  is  .
in  the  संयुक्त  States  और   कनाडा   ,   इस  time  मण्डल  is generically called  प्रशांत   समय   (  PT  )  .
Specifically  ,  it  is   प्रशांत   मानक  Time  (   pst  )  जब   observing   मानक   समय  (  शीत   )  ,  और   प्रशांत  Daylight Time ( PDT  )  when observing  daylight   छायांकन  time  (  summer  )   .
सबसे  of Canada uses daylight saving time .
in   मैक्सिको   the  UTC−8 time  मण्डल   is  known as the  उत्तरपश्चिम  Zone , which  is  synchronized  साथ  the  u.S.   पीडीटी  daylight saving  अनुसूची   .
the  largest  नगर   in   the   प्रशांत  Time Zone  is   लॉस   एंजिल्स  in California from USA ; the city 's metropolitan area is  the  largest in the zone .
The zone is one hour ahead  of  the Alaska Time Zone  ,   एक  hour behind the Mountain Time  मण्डल  and three  घंटों   पीछे  the Eastern Time  मण्डल   .
स्टीरियो   8   ,   commonly  known  as   the  eight-track cartridge , eight-track tape ,  or   बस  eight-track ,  is   a   चुम्बकीय  tape sound  रिकॉर्डिंग  technology .
it   थी  popular in the United  राज्य  from the mid-1960s through to the early 1980s ,  लकिन  was relatively unknown in many  यूरोपीय  countries .
It was ,  however  , very popular  in  the  संयुक्त   किंगडम   दौरान  this period  .
Stereo  8   थी   निर्मित  in  1964   by  a consortium led  by  Bill  lear   of   lear   जेट  Corporation , along  साथ   ampex   ,   घाट   मोटर   कम्पनी   ,   सामान्य   मोटर्स  , Motorola  ,   और  RCA Victor Records  (  RCA )  .
It was  a  further development of  the   समान  Stereo-Pak four-track  कार्ट्रिज   निर्मित  by  अर्ल  `` Madman  ''  Muntz  .
a  later quadraphonic  संस्करण  of the format  थी  announced by  आरसीए  in April 1970  और   पहला   ज्ञात   as   quad-8  , then later  बदला  to just Q8  .
Ramesses  ii  (  1303   bc   –  July  or  August 1213 BC  ;  Egyptian  :   ,   alternatively  transcribed  as  Rameses and Ramses or ) , referred to  as   रामेसेस  the  ग्रेट  , was the third Egyptian  pharaoh   (  reigned  1279   bc  – 1213 BC )  of   the  Nineteenth dynasty .
He is  प्रायः  regarded  as  the greatest , most  मनाये  ,  और  most powerful pharaoh of the  मिश्र  Empire  .
उसके   successors  and later  उन्होंने   पुकारा  him the ``  ग्रेट  Ancestor . ''
Ramesses II led several  सैन्य   रिझाने  into the Levant , re-asserting Egyptian control over Canaan  .
He also led expeditions to the south , into Nubia ,  commemorated   in   inscriptions   at  Beit el-Wali and  gerf   hussein  .
At age fourteen  ,  Ramesses was appointed Prince Regent  by   उसके  father Seti I .
he  is believed to  have  taken  the   सिंहासन  in  उसके  late teens and is  ज्ञात   to   have   शासित   मिश्र   इससे   1279  BC to  1213  BC  लिये  66  सालो  and 2  महीने   ,   according   to   दोनो   manetho  and  मिश्र  's contemporary  ऐतिहासिक   रिकॉर्ड  .
he  was  एकबार  said to  have   जिया  to be 99 years old  ,   लकिन  it is more likely that  he  died in  उसके   90th  or 91st year .
if   he   became   pharaoh  in 1279 BC  as  most Egyptologists today  मानना   ,   he  would have assumed the  सिंहासन  on May  31  , 1279  bc   ,   आधारित   on  his known  accession  date  of   iii  Shemu  दिन   27   .
रामेसेस  II celebrated  an  unprecedented 14  sed   त्यौहार   (   the  first held  बाद  thirty  सालो  of a  pharaoh   's   शासनकाल   ,   और   तब  every  तीन   सालो  ) during  उसके   reign—more  than any other pharaoh  .
On his  मौत  , he  थी  buried  in   a  tomb in the Valley of  the   किंग्स  ; his body was later  स्थानांतरित  to a royal cache  जहाँ  it was discovered in 1881  ,  and  is  now  on  display in  the  Cairo Museum .
the  early part of his  शासनकाल  was focused on  भवन  cities  ,  temples and  स्मारक   .
he  established the city of Pi-Ramesses in  the  Nile Delta  as  his  नई  capital and main base  लिये  his  अभियान  in Syria .
This  नगर   थी  built on  the  remains  of  the city of  avaris  , the capital of  the   हिक्सोस   जब   वे  took  over  ,  और   थी  the location  of  the main Temple of Set  .
he   is   भी   ज्ञात   as  Ozymandias in the Greek  स्त्रोत  , from  a  transliteration  into  Greek of  a  part of Ramesses  's   सिंहासन  name  ,  , ``  ra   's  mighty truth  ,  chosen of Ra  ''  .
The Texas Rangers are  a  professional baseball team located  in  the  dallas-fort  Worth  metroplex   ,   आधारित   in  Arlington  ,  Texas  .
The Rangers franchise is currently a member  of  the Western Division of  प्रमुख   लीग  Baseball 's American League .
Since ,  the   रेंजरों   have   निभाई   in  Rangers  ballpark  in  आर्लिंगटन  in  आर्लिंगटन  , Texas .
The  टोली  's  नाम  is  उधार   इससे   the  famous law enforcement  एजेंसी  of the same  नाम  .
The franchise  थी  established in 1961 by the name  of  the Washington  सीनेटरों  ,  an   विस्तार  team  awarded  to  वॉशिंगटन  , D.C.  ,  after the city 's first  ballclub  , the original  वॉशिंगटन  Senators , moved to Minnesota and  became   the  Twins  .
After  the   ऋतु   ,  the new Senators moved  to   आर्लिंगटन  ,  टेक्सास  ,  और  debuted as  the   रेंजरों   the  following  वसन्त   .
The  टेक्सास  Rangers Baseball  क्लबों  has made six appearances in  the  MLB  postseason  , all  following   प्रभाग   championships  , in  1996   ,  1998  ,   1999   ,   2010  ,  2011  and  2012  .
In 2010 , the Rangers advanced past  the   प्रभाग  Series for the first time  ,  defeating  the   tampa   खाड़ी  Rays .
Texas then brought home their  पहला  American League  pennant   बाद   धड़कन   the  New  यॉर्क  Yankees in six  खेल   .
In the 2010  संसार   श्रेणी  ,  the  franchise  's  first , the Rangers  गिरी   to  the San  फ्रांसिस्को   दिग्गज  in five  खेल   .
Their lone  विजय  made them the  पहला   टेक्सास   टोली   to  win a World  श्रेणी  game ,  the   ह्यूस्टन  Astros  having   महरूम   swept   in  their 2005 World Series appearance  .
वे  repeated as American League  champions  the following  साल  ,  तब   खोया   the  2011  संसार  Series  to  the St. Louis Cardinals in  सात  games .
Gaius  जूलियस   सीज़र  ( , July 100 BC  –  15 March  44  BC )  थी  a Roman general , statesman ,  कौंसुल  and  notable   लेखक  of Latin  गद्य  .
he  played  a  critical  भूमिका   in  the  कार्यक्रम   कि   led  to the demise  of  the  रोमन   गणतंत्र   और  the rise  of   the  Roman  साम्राज्य  .
in  60  bc  ,  सीज़र  , Crassus and Pompey  formed  a  राजनैतिक  alliance  कि   थी  to dominate Roman  राजनीती  for several years .
Their  कोशिशें  to  amass  power through populist  tactics  were opposed by the  रूढ़िवादी  elite within the  रोमन  Senate , among them  केटो  the Younger with  the  frequent support of Cicero .
Caesar  's  conquest of Gaul , completed by 51  bc  , extended  रोम   's  territory  to   the   अंग्रेज़ी   चैनल   और  the  राइन   .
Caesar  became   the   पहला  Roman general to cross both when  he  built  a  bridge across the Rhine and conducted the first invasion of Britain .
ये  achievements  granted  him  बेमेल   सैन्य   शक्ति   और   threatened   to  eclipse the  खड़ा  of Pompey , who had realigned himself with the  सीनेट  after  the   मौत  of Crassus in 53  bc  .
With  the  Gallic  युद्धों  concluded , the Senate ordered  सीज़र   to  lay down his  सैन्य  command  और   वापसी  to  रोम   .
सीज़र  refused , and  चिह्नित   उसके   defiance  in  49   bc   by   क्रासिंग   the  Rubicon  साथ  a legion  ,   leaving  his  प्रांत  and illegally entering  रोमन  territory  अंतर्गत   बाहें   .
Civil  युद्ध   resulted   ,   इससे  which  he  emerged as  the   unrivaled   नेता   of   रोम   .
After assuming  कंट्रोल  of government , Caesar  began  a program  of   सोशल   और  governmental reforms  ,  including the  सृष्टि   of   the  Julian  पंचांग  .
He  केंद्रीकृत   the  bureaucracy of the  गणतंत्र  and was eventually proclaimed  ``  dictator in perpetuity '' .
But the  underlying  political conflicts had  नहीं   महरूम   resolved   ,  and on the  ides  of  कूच  ( 15 March ) 44 BC ,  सीज़र  was  assassinated   by  a  समूह   of   सीनेटरों  led by Marcus Junius Brutus .
a   नई  series  of  civil  युद्धों  broke out ,  और  the  संवैधानिक   सरकारी  of the  गणतंत्र   थी   never  restored  .
Caesar  's  adopted  वारिस  Octavian , later  ज्ञात   as  Augustus ,  रोज़  to sole  शक्ति   ,  and the era  of   the   रोमन  Empire began  .
Much of  सीज़र   's  life is known  इससे   उसके  own  खाते   of   उसके  military  अभियान  ,  और  from  अन्य   समकालीन  sources  ,   मुख्यतः   the  letters and speeches of  सिसरो   और  the historical  कृतियाँ  of  sallust   .
The later  biographies  of  सीज़र  by  suetonius  and Plutarch are  भी  major  स्त्रोत  .
Caesar  is  deemed to be  एक  of the  महानतम   सैन्य  commanders of history .
Linguistic map  of   सीरियल  ,  कैमरून   ,  and Benin .
Sign in  अंग्रेज़ी   ,   बाहर   the  University  of   लागोस
वहीँ  are hundreds of  भाषाएं  spoken in  सीरियल  .
The  प्रमुख  languages are Yoruba , Hausa  ,   इग्बो  ,  ईदो   ,   fulfulde  ,  कनूरी   ,  and Ibibio .
The official language  of   सीरियल   ,  English ,  the   पूर्व  colonial language ,  थी   चुनी  to  सुकर  the  सांस्कृतिक   और   भाषाई   एकता   of   the   देश   .
English ,  however   ,   remains   an   विशेष   बचाना  of the  देश   's  urban elite , and is  नहीं  widely spoken  in   ग्रामीण  areas ,  जिससे   comprise  three quarters of  the  countries  जनसांख्यिकी  .
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is  a  microcosm of Africa as a  पूरे  , encompassing three  प्रमुख   अफ़्रीकी  languages  परिवारों  : Afroasiatic ,  nilo-saharan  ,  और   niger–congo   .
सीरियल  also has several  as-yet  unclassified languages , such as Cen Tuum , which  may  represent a  relic  of an even greater  विविधता   prior   to  the  स्प्रेड  of the  वर्तमान   भाषा  families  .
Daucus carota  (   आम   names   शामिल  wild carrot  ,  (  uk   )  bird 's nest ,  बिशप  's lace  ,  and Queen  ऐनी   's  lace ( North America ) )  is  a flowering plant in the family  apiaceae   ,  native to  शीतोष्ण  regions of Europe ,  दक्षिणपश्चिम  Asia  और  naturalised to North America  और   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
domesticated   गाजर  are  cultivars  of a subspecies  ,   daucus  carota  subsp  . sativus .
In the  संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  the   शीर्षक  of federal judge  प्रायः  means a  न्यायधीश   नियुक्त  by the President  of  the  संयुक्त  States and confirmed by  the  United  राज्य   सीनेट  pursuant  to  the  नियुक्ति   clause  in  आलेख  II of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  Constitution .
In addition  to  the Supreme Court of the United States  ,  whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond  the  constitutional power of Congress  to   alter  , acts  of  Congress have  स्थापित  13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit  न्यायालयों  '' )  साथ  appellate jurisdiction over  अलग   regions  of the United States  ,  and 94 United  राज्य  district courts .
Every  न्यायधीश  appointed  to   ऐसे  a  अदालत  may  be  categorized as a  संघीय  judge ;  ऐसे  positions include  the   मुख्य   इंसाफ  and Associate Justices of  the   परम्   अदालत  , Circuit Judges  of  the courts of  appeals  , and  ज़िला  judges  of   the  United States district  न्यायालयों  .
All of  ये  judges described thus far are referred  to   sometimes   as  `` Article  iii  judges ''  क्युकी  they  कसरत  the  न्यायिक   शक्ति  vested  in   the  judicial branch  of   the  federal government  by  Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In  जोड   ,  judges of  the  Court of International Trade exercise judicial  शक्ति   pursuant   to  Article III  .
Other judges  सेवारत  in the  संघीय  courts  ,  including  मजिस्ट्रेट  judges and  दिवालियापन   न्यायाधीशों   ,  are also sometimes  referred  to  as  ``  संघीय   न्यायाधीशों  '' ; however , they are  neither   नियुक्त  by  the  President  nor   पुष्टि   by   the   सीनेट   ,   और  their  शक्ति  derives from  आलेख   i   बजाय   .
See  आलेख  I and  आलेख   iii  tribunals .
नेल   किम   फ़र्टाडो  ( born  दिसम्बर   2  ,  1978  )  is  a Canadian singer  ,  songwriter and actress .
वो  has sold 20 million albums  विश्वव्यापी  and more  20  million singles ,  bringing  her total  बिक्री   to  over  40   लाख  records around  the   संसार   .
Furtado  पहला   gained  fame with  उसके  debut album , Whoa  ,   नेल  !
,  which spawned two  कामयाब  singles ,  ``  I  'm  Like  a  Bird `` and `` Turn Off the Light ``  .  ``
i  'm Like A  बर्ड   ''   जीती   a   2001   juno  Award for  सिंगल  of the  साल   और   a   2002  Grammy Award  लिये   बेहतरीन   मादा   पॉप   गायन   प्रदर्शन  .
In  2003  , Furtado released  लोकगीत   ,  which produced  तीन  international singles— `` Powerless  (  Say  कया  You Want  )   ``  ,  ``  Try `` and ``  força  `` .
तीन  years later she  released   ढीला   ,  a worldwide commercial success  .
The album spawned  चार   number-one  hits : `` Promiscuous  ``  , `` Maneater  ``   ,   ``  Say It  सही   ``  and  ``  All  शुभ  Things  (  Come to  an   समाप्त   )  `` .
After  a   three-year  break , she released her first full-length Spanish album , Mi Plan  ,  and  फ़र्टाडो  received a Latin Grammy for Best  मादा   पॉप   गायन  Album .
in   2012  , Furtado 's  चौथी  English-language  स्टुडियो  album  ,   the   स्पिरिट  Indestructible was  released  .
फ़र्टाडो   's  work  रै   अर्जित   उसके  numerous awards and  accolades  ,  सहित  2 Grammy Awards  ,   10   juno   पुरस्कार  , 3 MuchMusic Video Awards and a star on Canada  's  Walk of  कीर्ति   .
Creatures of the Night is the tenth  स्टुडियो  album by Kiss .
it  is  the   बैंड   's   पिछला   एल्बम   लिये   कासाब्लांका   रिकॉर्ड  , the only label the group had  कभी  recorded  लिये   at  that  पाइंट   .
the   एल्बम  was  समर्पित   to  the  मेमोरी  of Casablanca founder and early  चुंबन   समर्थक   neil   bogart   ,  who had died of cancer during  the  recording sessions .
It  is   भी  the band 's last  एल्बम  recorded with Ace Frehley credited as an  आधिकारिक   सदस्य  (  जबतक  1998 's Psycho Circus  )  ,  और  its first  एल्बम   साथ   vinnie  Vincent as  the  initially uncredited lead  guitarist  ( Vincent  होता  later  be  credited  ,   लकिन  not  प्रदर्शित   pictorially  on  the  cover , of 1985 's  reissue  of  the  album  )  .
Touch  is   a   निर्णायक  means  of  receiving information  .
इस  photo shows tactile markings  identifying  stairs  लिये  visually  impaired  people .
The  somatosensory   प्रणाली   is  a  विविध  sensory  प्रणाली  comprising  the  receptors and processing centres to  उपज  the  संवेदी   modalities  such  as   टच  , temperature  ,  proprioception  (  body position  )   ,  and nociception  (   पीड़ा  ) .
the  sensory  receptors   कवर   the   स्किन   और  epithelia  ,  skeletal muscles , bones  और  joints ,  आतंरिक   अंगों  ,  और  the cardiovascular system .
While touch  is   माना   एक   of   the  five traditional  होश   ,   the   छाप  of touch is  formed   इससे   अनेक  modalities  .
In medicine  ,   the  colloquial  पद  `` touch '' is  प्रायः  replaced  साथ  ``  दैहिक   होश   ''   to   बेहतर   प्रतिबिंबित   the  variety of mechanisms  शामिल  .
Somatic senses are  sometimes   referred  to  as   somesthetic   होश  , with the understanding  कि  somesthesis includes  टच  ,  proprioception   और   (  depending on  उपयोग  )  भी   haptic   बोध  .
the  system  प्रतिक्रियाएँ  to diverse  stimuli  using different receptors  :   thermoreceptors  ,  nociceptors  ,  mechanoreceptors  and  chemoreceptors   .
हस्तांतरण  of  सूचना  from  the  receptors passes via  संवेदी  nerves through tracts  in  the  स्पाइनल   cord  and into the brain  .
प्रसंस्करण   primarily  occurs in the  प्राथमिक  somatosensory  क्षेत्रफल   in  the parietal  पालि   of  the cerebral cortex  .
The  cortical   homunculus   थी  devised by Wilder  penfield  .
at  its simplest  ,   the   प्रणाली  works  जब  activity in  a   संवेदी   न्यूरॉन  is triggered  by  a  विशिष्ट  stimulus such as heat ; this signal  आखिरकार  passes to  an  area in the brain uniquely attributed  to   कि  area on the body—this  allows  the processed stimulus to be  लगा  at  the  correct  स्थान   .
The point-to-point mapping of the body  सतहों  in  the  brain  is   पुकारा  a  homunculus   और   is   अनिवार्य   in  the creation  of  a  देह  image  .
This  brain-surface  ( `` cortical  ''   )  map is not immutable , however  .
Dramatic shifts can  occur   in  response  to   स्ट्रोक   or  injury .
magnolia  is  a   विशाल  genus of about  210   flowering  plant  प्रजाति   in  the subfamily  magnolioideae  of  the   परिवार  Magnoliaceae .
it   is  named after  फ्रेंच  botanist  पियरे  Magnol .
Magnolia  is   an  ancient  genus  .
appearing  before bees did , the  पुष्प   विकसित  to encourage pollination  by  beetles .
To avoid  क्षति  from  pollinating   भृंग  ,  the  carpels of Magnolia flowers are  अत्यधिक  tough  .
Fossilised specimens  of  Magnolia acuminata  have  been found  डेटिंग  to  20  million  सालो  ago  ,  and of plants  identifiably  belonging  to   the  Magnoliaceae dating to 95 million  सालो  ago  .
Another aspect of Magnolias  कि  is considered to represent  an  ancestral  राज्य  is  कि   the  flower bud is enclosed  in  a  bract  rather  than   in  sepals ;  the   perianth  parts are  undifferentiated  and  पुकारा  tepals rather than distinct sepals  और   पंखुड़ियों   .
magnolia   साझा  the tepal  characteristic  with several other flowering plants near  the  base of the flowering plant  lineage  such as Amborella and  nymphaea  ( as well  as  with  अनेक   अधिक   recently  derived  पौधे   ऐसे  as Lilium  )  .
The natural  दायरा  of  magnolia   प्रजाति   is  a  disjunct  distribution  ,  with  a   प्रमुख   केन्द्र   in  east and southeast Asia and a  द्वितीयक   केन्द्र  in  पूर्वी  North America  ,   सेंट्रल   अमेरिका   ,  the  वेस्ट  Indies , and  कुछ   प्रजाति   in  South America .
thumb
``  श्वेत  Christmas '' is  an   इरविंग  Berlin  सोंग  reminiscing about  an  old-fashioned  क्रिसमस   सेटिंग   .
according   to   the  Guinness  किताब  of World Records  ,  the version  सुंग  by Bing  crosby  is  the  best-selling  सिंगल  of all time ,  साथ  estimated  बिक्री   in   excess  of  50   लाख  copies  विश्वव्यापी   .
खाते  vary as to when  और   जहाँ  Berlin  लिखा   the  song .
एक   स्टोरी  is that he wrote  it   in  1940  ,   in  warm  la   quinta  , California , while staying at the  la   quinta  Hotel , a frequent Hollywood  रिट्रीट  also favored  by  writer-producer Frank  capra   ,  although the Arizona Biltmore also claims  the   सोंग  was written there  .
He  प्रायः  stayed up  सब  night  लिखने  — he told his  सचिव   ,   ``  Grab your  कलम  and take down  इस   सोंग  .
i  just wrote the best  सोंग   i  've  कभी  written —  हेक   ,  I  बस   लिखा   the  best song  कि   anybody  's ever written !  ''
cross-country   स्कीइंग  ( or XC skiing ) is a form  of   स्की   touring  in which participants propel  themselves  across  snow-covered   मैदान   using   skis  and poles  .
the   कार्यकलाप   is  popular in many  स्थान  with  विशाल  snowfields , primarily Northern Europe  ,   कनाडा   ,  and Alaska .
Cross-country  स्कीइंग   is   भाग  of  the  Nordic skiing sport family , which  शामिल   स्की   कूद  , Nordic  संयुक्त   (  cross-country  स्कीइंग  and ski  कूद   )  , Biathlon  (   स्कीइंग   और   राइफल  marksmanship )  और  ski-orienteering (  जिससे  includes map navigation along  हिम  trails and tracks ) .
cross-country  skiing  is   the  modern style of  स्कीइंग  that most  resembles  prehistoric skiing , particularly when done  in   the  backcountry  .
It is  भी  related  to  Telemark skiing .
A  उपयोग  tax  in   संयुक्त  States is complementary to sales tax  जिससे   अर्थात्  , if you buy a  taxable  product/services without  paying   कोई  Sales  कर   to   विक्रेता  , you  owe   उपयोग  tax .
तुम   जरूर  self assess use tax and  अदा  it  सीधे  to  the  state where the  उत्पाद   यहूद  consumed  or   सेवाएं  were rendered .
Use tax typically  is  a tax on consumption but if  तुम  buy an item ( without paying  बिक्री  tax  )   और  store it  in   अपना  warehouse  initially   ,   उपयोग   कर  applies to that  स्थान  where goods were stored .
Later on  जब  the  फाइनल  consumption  takes   प्लेस   at   कुछ   अन्य   स्थान  ,  तुम  are required to  अदा  the differential of tax rate  to  the jurisdiction of ultimate place  of  consumption  .
This really  अर्थात्   कि   तुम   do   n't  have to  अदा   दोनो  Sales Tax as well  as  Use Tax  on   एक  transaction .
It  is  only  एक  or the other that  तुम   हैं   जरूरी  to  अदा  on purchase  of  taxable  products/services  .
if   विक्रेता   करता  n't charge  कोई  Sales tax on its  चालान  then  it  is  the  obligation  of  the buyer to self assess Use tax and  अदा   it  to the  उचित  Jurisdication .
उपयोग   कर   is  generally  चार्ज  at the  वही   कर  rate of  बिक्री  Tax  लकिन   in   कुछ  states the  कर  rate is different  .
Use tax is also termed as ``  खपत  Tax ''  or   ``   उपभोक्ता  Use Tax '' .
a  use tax is  a   प्रकार  of excise tax  levied  in the United  राज्य  by  numerous  state  सरकारें  .
it  is assessed upon tangible personal property  खरीदा  by  a   निवासी  of the assessing state  लिये  use , storage  ,   or   खपत   in   कि  state ( not for resale  )   ,  regardless of  जहाँ  the  खरीदें   took  place .
If a resident  of  a state  makes  a  खरीदें   भीतर   उसके  home  राज्य  ,  पूरा  sales tax is  सशुल्क  at  the   समय  of  the   लेनदेन  .
the  use tax applies  जब  a resident of  the  assessing state  purchases  an  मद   कि  is  नहीं   विषय   to  his home state 's sales  कर   .
Usually  ,   इस  is due to out-of-state  purchases  , as well as ordering  वस्तुएं  through  the   मेल  , by phone  ,  or over the  अंतरजाल   इससे  other  राज्य  .
The  उपयोग  tax  is  typically  assessed   at  the  वही   रेट  as the sales tax  कि  would have been owed  (   if  any  )  had the same goods been  खरीदा  in the state  of  residence  .
For  उदाहरण   ,   a  resident of  मैसाचुसेट्स   ,   साथ   a   6.25  % ``  बिक्री  and  उपयोग   कर  '' on certain  goods  and services  ,   purchases   non-exempt   goods   or  services  in   नई   हैम्पशायर   लिये  use  ,  storage or other consumption in Massachusetts .
अंतर्गत  New  हैम्पशायर  law ,  the  New Hampshire vendor collects no sales taxes on  the  goods , but the Massachusetts purchaser/user  जरूर  still  अदा   6.25  % of  the  sales price  सीधे  to  the   विभाग  of Revenue in  मैसाचुसेट्स  as a use tax  .
if   the  same goods  हैं   खरीदा   in  a US  राज्य   कि   करता  collect  बिक्री  tax  लिये   ऐसे  goods at time  of   खरीदें  , whatever taxes were  सशुल्क   by  the purchaser  to  that state  can  be deducted (  as   a  tax credit  )   इससे  the 6.25  %   owed   लिये  subsequent use  ,  storage or  खपत  in Massachusetts .
With  few  exceptions , no state  's  vendors  होगा   चार्ज  the native state  's   बिक्री  tax  on   goods  shipped out of  राज्य  , meaning all  goods  ordered from out-of-state  हैं  essentially  फ़्री  of sales tax .
the  purchaser is  इसलिए   जरूरी   to  declare and  अदा   the  use tax  to  his home state on  ये  ordered  goods  .
The assessing  क्षेत्राधिकार  may make  the  use tax payable annually ,  लकिन  some  राज्य  require a  मासिक   भुगतान  .
For example  ,   जहाँ   a  Vermont  निवासी   रै   नहीं  paid  at  least  6   %   बिक्री  tax on property brought in for  उपयोग   in  the  राज्य  ,  वर्मांट   विधि  requires  दाखिल  a tax return  (  Form SU-452 and  भुगतान  ) by the 20th day  of  the month following non-exempt purchases to avoid a  $   50  late fee  ,  a 5 % penalty per  माह  , to  a  maximum of  25  % ,  प्लस   statutory  interest on the unpaid  कर  and penalties .
Typical exemptions include purchases by charitable non-profit  संगठन  or governmental agencies ,  purchases  for  पुनर्विक्रय  in commerce , and purchases  via  ``  कैज़ुअल   बिक्री   ''   by  individuals not in  the  ordinary course of  कारोबार   .
Also  नोट  that there  हैं  thousands  of  tax jurisdictions  in  the  u.S.   और  many have  ever-changing  lists  of  specific types of goods and  सेवाएं  that are not taxable .
as   an  illustration of the complexities  :   a  2006 Massachusetts law requires payment  of  tax on `` pre-written '' ( not custom ) software  खरीदा  and  डाउनलोड  over  the   अंतरजाल  for installation  और  use in  मैसाचुसेट्स   ,   regardless   of   जहाँ  it  originates  .
however   ,  the actual use of  the  same software  डाउनलोड  by a  मैसाचुसेट्स   निवासी   to  a server  in   another  state  remains  a  non-taxed  ``  सेवा   ''  .
In  कंट्रास्ट  ,  अरकंसास  generally  करता   नहीं   कर  anything delivered over  the   अंतरजाल  (  ऐसे  as  डाउनलोड  software or music ) , except VoIP  जिससे   is  specifically defined as taxable ``  दूरसंचार   सेवाएं  '' .
Software  (   pre-written  or  कस्टम  ) `` delivered  thru  a  ठोस   मीडियम  ''  (  i.e. ,  on  disk ) in Arkansas is taxable even if  ordered   ऑनलाइन  , except ``  कस्टम  software  लिये   a  particular  ग्राहक  ''  जिससे   is  non-taxable `` programming  सेवाएं   ''  even  if   वितरित  on a  डिस्क  .
in  most cases , this complexity is  भाग  of the  underlying  sales  कर   कानून  ; but while a brick-and-mortar store has  to   सौदे   साथ  only the sales  कर  laws of  इसके   अपना   स्थान   ,  remote  विक्रेता   have  to deal with the use tax laws  of  many jurisdictions—up to every  us  state and locality  कि   प्रकृती   उन्हें  ,  if  the  कम्पनी   रै  a  उपस्थिति   or  ``  नेक्सस  ''  in  every state  (  as  विशाल  ``  brick-and-mortar   ''  sellers  जैसे   wal-mart   और   बेहतरीन  Buy do  )   .
In medicine ,  pulmonary  hypertension  (  PH  )  is  an  increase  of  blood  दबाव  in  the   pulmonary   धमनी  , pulmonary  रग  ,  or  pulmonary capillaries , together known  as  the lung  vasculature  ,  अग्रणी  to shortness  of  breath , dizziness , fainting , and other  लक्षण  ,  सब   of   जिससे  are  exacerbated  by exertion .
pulmonary  hypertension  can   be   a  severe disease  साथ  a markedly  decreased  exercise  सहिष्णुता  and  दिल   विफलता  .
it  was  पहला   पहचाना  by Dr. Ernst von Romberg in  1891  .
According to  the  most  हाल  classification  ,   it  can be  एक   of  five  अलग   प्रकार   :  arterial , venous , hypoxic ,  thromboembolic  or miscellaneous  .
right
right
sanuk  , a  प्रभाग   of   deckers   बाहरी  Corporation , is a footwear  ब्रांड   आधारित  in  दक्षिणी  California .
Sanuk , the Thai  शब्द   लिये   मजा   ,   थी   संस्थापित  by Southern California native Jeff  kelley  when he started  बनाना  sandals  आउट  of  indoor-outdoor   पिंजरा  .
the  first  उत्पाद  created  थी   ग्रीन  carpeted and entitled the ``  फर   रियल   ''  after  एक  shop  मालिक  asked if  the   विलक्षणता  sandal was  ``  For  रियल  .  ''
the  Fur  रियल  first became a runaway  hit   through   बुटीक   स्टोर्स  and  नहीं   the  intended surf  दुकानें   .
the  novelty act was  followed  up by a sandal wrapped  in   तार   जाल  ,  a  leopard  छपाई  version ,  और   शैलियाँ   बना   आउट   of  a poncho  सामग्री   in  a variety of colors .
Sanuk has  grown  to  शामिल  style options  लिये  men , women  और   युवावस्था  and is  वितरित  across the  संयुक्त  States and in  over   50  countries  throughout  Europe , Asia  ,  South America and Australia .
sanuk  centers itself  around  a  धनात्मक   जीवनशैली   वकालत  the slogan , ``  मुस्कान  ,  pass   it   on  ! ``  .
In  कंप्यूटर  science , array programming  भाषाएं  (  भी  known  as   वेक्टर   or   multidimensional  languages )  generalize  operations on  scalars   to  apply transparently to  सदिश   ,  matrices , and  उच्चतर  dimensional arrays .
Array  प्रोग्रामिंग   primitives  concisely  एक्स्प्रेस   व्यापक   विचार  about  आंकड़ा  manipulation .
The level of conciseness  can  be dramatic in certain cases :  it   is  not uncommon to find array  प्रोग्रामिंग  language one-liners  कि   आवश्यकता   अधिक   than  a couple of  पृष्ठों   of   जावा  code  .
apl  , designed by Ken Iverson , was  the   पहला   प्रोग्रामिंग  language to  provide   सरणी  programming  सामर्थ्य  .
The  mnemonic  APL  refers  to  the  title  of  his  seminal  book ``  a  Programming  भाषा   ''   और   नहीं  to arrays per se .  iverson   's   योगदान  to rigor  और   स्पष्टता   थी  probably  अधिक  important  than  the simple  एक्सटेंशन   of   आयाम  to  कृत्यों  .
In  the  United States an annuity contract  is   निर्मित  when an insured  पार्टी  , usually  an   व्यक्तिगत  ,  pays  a life  बीमे  company a  सिंगल   प्रीमियम  that  होगा  later be  वितरित   वापस  to the  insured  party  over   समय  .
Annuity  अनुबंध   traditionally  provide a guaranteed distribution  of   आय   over  time ,  ऐसे   as   via  fixed payments , until  the   मौत  of  the  person  or   व्यक्तियों   नामित   in  the contract  or   जबतक   a   फाइनल  date  ,  whichever comes first .
however   ,  the majority  of   आधुनिक  annuity customers use  annuities  only  to  accumulate  निधि   फ़्री  of income and  पूंजी  gains taxes  और  to  बाद  take  lump-sum  withdrawals without using the  guaranteed-income-for-life  feature  .
अध्यक्ष   बराक  Obama .
बराक  Obama with his first  परम्   अदालत  nominee ,  सोनिया   सोटोमायोर   .
Following is a  सूची  of  सब   संयुक्त  States  संघीय  judges  नियुक्त   by   अध्यक्ष  Barack  ओबामा   दौरान   उसके   प्रेसिडेंसी  .
As of  अप्रैल  30 , 2013 ,  187   ओबामा  nominees to  आलेख  III  judgeships  have been  पुष्टि  by  the   संयुक्त  States  सीनेट  ,  namely   दो  Justices  to  the Supreme Court of the  संयुक्त  States , 35 judges  to   the  United  राज्य  courts of appeals and 150  न्यायाधीशों   to   the  United States  ज़िला   न्यायालयों  .
25  further   nominations   हैं   फिलहाल   प्रतीक्षारत   सीनेट   कार्रवाई   .
There are  फिलहाल  16 vacancies  on   the  United States  न्यायालयों  of Appeals ,  67  vacancies  on  the United  राज्य   ज़िला   न्यायालयों   और  22  अतिरिक्त  federal  न्यायपालिका  vacancies that  हैं   anticipated  to occur  पहले   the   समाप्त  of Obama 's  दूसरी   पद  .
ओबामा  has  नहीं   बना  any recess appointments to  the  federal  न्यायालयों  .
ओबामा   रै  made two  nominations  to the  संयुक्त  States  अदालत  of International Trade , an  आलेख   iii  tribunal .
Obama also  designated   बैठे   न्यायधीश  Emily C. Hewitt  of  the United  राज्य   अदालत  of  संघीय  Claims  ,  an  आलेख   i  court  ,  to  be  Chief Judge of  कि   अदालत   .
इस  is a  सूची   of   एयरपोर्ट   in   मैक्सिको  , sorted by location  .
मैक्सिको  has  परिचय   1,834  airports , ranking  2nd  in  क्रमांक   of  airports in  उत्तर  America , and  3rd  in the  संसार  .
तभी  major National and  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   एयरपोर्ट   हैं   दिखाया   .
Agency  कर्ज़  also  ज्ञात  as  an   एजेंसी   बंध   is  a security  ,  usually  a  bond , issued by a  u.S.  government-sponsored agency .
the   offerings  of these agencies are  समर्थित  but not  गारंटी  by  the   us  government since  the  agencies are private entities  .
कुछ   prominent   issuers   of   ये  securities  हैं  Student  ऋण  Marketing Association ( Sallie  mae  )  ,  Federal  नेशनल  Mortgage  संघ   (   fannie   mae  )  और   संघीय   घर  Loan Mortgage  निगम  ( Freddie  मैक  )  .
एजेंसी  securities are usually exempt  इससे   राज्य  and local taxes  ,  but not federal tax  .
Agency  कर्ज़  is also called  an  agency security .
The Susquehanna Steam Electric Station  ,   a   खौलते  water reactor  .
the   रिएक्टरों   हैं  located inside the rectangular  containment   इमारतें   towards  the front of  the  cooling towers .
Three nuclear-powered American warships ,  (  top  to  bottom )  नाभिकीय   cruisers  USS Bainbridge and  uss  Long  बीच  with USS  एंटरप्राइज़   the  first  nuclear-powered  aircraft carrier  in   1964  .
Crew members  हैं  spelling out Einstein 's mass-energy equivalence  सूत्र  E  =  mc2 on the flight  डेक  .
the  Russian nuclear-powered icebreaker  ns  Yamal  on  a 1994  संयुक्त  expedition with  the  NSF .
Nuclear power  is  the  उपयोग  of sustained  नाभिकीय  fission to generate heat and electricity  .
नाभिकीय   शक्ति  plants provided  परिचय  5.7 % of  the   संसार   's   उर्जा   और  13 % of the world 's electricity ,  in  2012 .
in  2013  ,   the   iaea  report that  वहीँ  are 437 operational  नाभिकीय   शक्ति   रिएक्टरों  (  हालांकि   नहीं  all are  producing   विद्युत   )   ,   in  31 countries .
In addition  ,   वहीँ  are  लगभग   140  naval  बरतन   using  nuclear propulsion  in   आपरेशन  , powered by some  180   रिएक्टरों  .
वहीँ   is  an ongoing  बहस  about  the  use  of   नाभिकीय  energy  .
Proponents , such as  the   संसार  Nuclear  संघ   ,  the IAEA and Environmentalists for  नाभिकीय  Energy contend that nuclear  शक्ति   is   a   चिरस्थायी  energy source that reduces carbon  emissions  .
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों   ,   ऐसे  as Greenpeace International and  nirs  ,  मानना  that  नाभिकीय  power  मुद्राएँ   अनेक  threats to people and the  पर्यावरण  .
Nuclear power  संयंत्र  accidents include the  chernobyl  disaster  (  1986  )  , Fukushima  daiichi   नाभिकीय  disaster  (  2011 ) , and  the   तीन  Mile Island accident (  1979   )  .
There have also been some  nuclear-powered   पनडुब्बी   mishaps   .
शोध  into safety  सुधार   is  continuing  और  nuclear  संलयन   ,   believed   to  be  safer  , may be used in the  भविष्य  .
As of 2012 , according  to  the  iaea  ,  विश्वव्यापी  there were 68 civil  नाभिकीय  power  रिएक्टरों  under construction in  15  countries .
in   the   us   the   पंक्तियां  of  लगभग  half  इसके   रिएक्टरों   have   महरूम  extended to 60 years , and plans to build another dozen are  अंतर्गत   गंभीर  consideration .
However  ,  Japan  's  2011  फुकुशिमा  Daiichi nuclear disaster prompted a rethink of nuclear energy policy  in   अनेक   देशों   .
Germany decided to  बंद   सब   इसके   रिएक्टरों  by  2022  , and Italy has banned nuclear  शक्ति  .
following  Fukushima  ,   the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Energy  एजेंसी   halved   इसके  estimate of  अतिरिक्त  nuclear generating capacity to be  निर्मित   by  2035  .
फोटोग्राफ   of  the Berlin Wall taken  इससे  the West side .
The  वॉल   थी  built in  1961  to prevent East  germans   इससे  fleeing  इससे   साम्यवादी  .
It was  an  iconic  प्रतीक  of the Cold War and its  पतन   in   1989   चिह्नित  the  समाप्त   of  the War  .
the  Cold War  ,  often  दिनाँक  from 1947 to  1991   ,  was  a  sustained state of  राजनैतिक  and military  टेंशन  between powers in the Western  bloc  , dominated by the  संयुक्त   राज्य  with  नाटो  among  इसके   allies  ,  और   शक्तियां  in  the  Eastern Bloc , dominated by  the  Soviet Union  साथ   साथ  the Warsaw Pact .
This  began   बाद  the success  of  their  अस्थाई  wartime alliance against  नाजी  Germany ,  leaving   the   ussr   और  the  us  as two superpowers with  profound   आर्थिक  and political  मतभेद  .
a  neutral faction arose  साथ  the Non-Aligned Movement  संस्थापित   by   मिश्र   ,  India , and  यूगोस्लाविया   ;   इस  faction rejected association with either  the  US-led  वेस्ट  or the Soviet-led  ईस्ट   .
The  ठंडा   युद्ध  was so named  क्युकी   the   दो  major powers—each  possessing   नाभिकीय  weapons  और  thereby  threatened  with mutual assured  विनाश   —never   मिले   in   सीधा  military  कॉम्बैट   .
बजाय  , in  उनके  struggle for  वैश्विक   influence   वे   सगाई  in  जारी  psychological  warfare   और   in  regular  अप्रत्यक्ष  confrontations through proxy  युद्धों  .
चक्र  of relative  शांत   होता  be followed by  ऊँची  tension  ,   जिससे  could  have  led to  संसार  war .
The tensest  टाइम्स  were  दौरान  the Berlin Blockade (  1948–1949   )   ,   the   कोरियाई  War  (  1950–1953 ) ,  the  Suez Crisis ( 1956 ) , the  बर्लिन  Crisis of  1961  ,  the  Cuban  मिसाइल  crisis  (  1962 )  ,  the Vietnam  युद्ध  (  1959–1975  )  ,  the  योम  Kippur War (  1973  ) ,  the  Soviet war in Afghanistan  (   1979–1989   )  , the Soviet downing  of  Korean Air  लाइनों   उड़ान   007  (  1983  ) , and the `` Able  archer  '' NATO military exercises ( 1983  )   .
the   विरोध  was expressed through military  coalitions   ,  strategic conventional  फ़ोर्स  deployments  ,  extensive  सहायता  to client states  ,  espionage ,  विशाल  propaganda  अभियान  , conventional and nuclear arms  दौड़   ,   appeals  to neutral  राष्ट्र   ,  rivalry  at  sports  कार्यक्रम  (  in   particular  the Olympics ) , and technological  प्रतियोगिताओं   ऐसे   as  the  स्पेस  Race  .
the   us   और   ussr  became  शामिल  in political and military conflicts in the Third  संसार  countries of  लैटिन  America  ,  Africa , the  मध्य  East  ,  and  southeast  Asia .
To  alleviate  the risk  of   a  potential nuclear  युद्ध  ,  दोनो   पहलू   sought  relief  of   राजनैतिक  tensions through détente in  the  1970s  .
In the 1980s  ,   the   संयुक्त   राज्य   increased   राजनयिक  , military ,  और   आर्थिक   pressures  on  the   सोवियत   संघ  ,  at   a  time  जब   the  communist state  थी   already   कष्ट  from economic stagnation .
in  the mid-1980s  ,   the  new Soviet  अध्यक्ष   मिखाइल  Gorbachev introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika  (  `` reorganization  ''  , 1987  )  and  ग्लास्नोस्त  ( ``  खुलेपन  '' ,  ca   .   1985  ) .
pressures  for national  स्वतंत्रता   grew  stronger in  पूर्वी   यूरोपीय   ,   विशेषकर  Poland .
They  पहुँचे  a breaking  पाइंट  when Gorbachev refused to use Soviet troops to  support  the faltering  सरकारी   of  East  जर्मनी   in   लेट   1989  .
Within  सप्ताह   सब  the satellite states broke  फ़्री   इससे  Moscow in a peaceful wave of revolutions ( there  थी  some violence  in   रोमानिया   )   .
the   pressures  escalated  अंदर  the  सोवियत   संघ   ,   जहाँ  Communism fell and the  ussr  was formally  dissolved  in  लेट   1991  .
The  संयुक्त   राज्य   remained  as  the  world  's  only superpower  .
the  Cold War  और   इसके   कार्यक्रम   have   बाएँ  a significant  विरासत  , and  it  is often  referred  to in  लोकप्रिय  culture , especially  in  media  featuring   विषयवस्तु  of espionage and  the  threat of  नाभिकीय   warfare   .
Pikes  शिखर  State Park  is  a  राज्य  park of Iowa  ,  USA  ,   featuring  a  bluff   निहार   the  Upper Mississippi River opposite the confluence  of   the  Wisconsin  नदी   .
The park is operated  by  the  आयोवा  Department of Natural  संसाधन  .
it  is nearly a thousand acres (  4   km2  ) in extent .
the  nearest city is  मैकग्रेगर  , Iowa .
आयोवा  Highway 76  लगभग  defines its  उत्तरी  boundary  .
It  gets   इसके  name from  the   आयोवा  incarnation of Pikes  शिखर   ,   a  particularly  ऊँची  point overlooking the  gorge  of the  अपर  Mississippi ,  और  like Pikes Peak  in   कोलोराडो  , is  नामित   लिये   zebulon   पाइक   .
वहीँ  are hiking  trails   ,  campgrounds  और   rv  facilities .
Mountain bikes are  permitted  in  निश्चित  portions of the park .
Aside  इससे   recreational   विकास   ,   the   जमीन   in  the park was never cleared and to a large  extent  remains as it  थी  before the  आगमन   of  white settlement .
It  is  part of  a   larger   जटिल   of  parks  ,  reserves and  refuges  which include Effigy Mounds  नेशनल   स्मारक  ,  the   विभिन्न   components   of  the  पीला  River  राज्य  Forest , the enormous Upper Mississippi River  नेशनल  Wildlife  और   मछली  Refuge  और  much smaller , much less  खूब  known Driftless Area National  वन्यजीव  Refuge  .
the  Northeast Iowa Legacy Trail System is  undergoing  development  ,  and will connect elements of these sites .
zac   भूरा  Band is  an  American country/folk band based  in  Atlanta  ,   जॉर्जिया  .
The lineup  consists  of Zac  भूरा   (  lead vocals  ,  guitar  )  , Jimmy De Martini  (  fiddle , vocals  )   ,  John Driskell Hopkins ( bass  गिटार  , vocals )  ,  Coy Bowles ( guitar , keyboards  )   ,  Chris Fryar (  ड्रम   )  , Clay Cook ( guitar  ,  keyboards ,  mandolin  , steel guitar , vocals )  ,   और  Daniel de  लॉस  Reyes ( percussion ) .
the  band has toured  throughout  the  संयुक्त  States  ,   सहित   a  slot on  the  2009  और  2010  bonnaroo  Music Festival .
वे  have  भी   अंकित  five studio  एल्बम  , and  charted   नौ  Number  एक   singles   on   the   बिलबोर्ड   देश  charts : `` Chicken  fried   ``  , `` Toes `` , ``  राजमार्ग  20  सवारी  `` , ``  फ़्री  ``  ,   ``  As She 's Walking Away `` ,  ``  Colder Weather  ``   ,   ``  Knee Deep `` , `` Keep Me In  दिमाग  `` , and `` Goodbye  in   उसके  Eyes `` in addition to  the  singles `` Whatever  it  Is `` and ``  no  Hurry  ``  , which peaked at  क्रमांक  2  on  the same  चार्ट  .
Talk radio  is  a  रेडियो  format containing discussion  परिचय  topical  मुद्दे  .
सबसे  shows are  regularly   hosted  by a single individual , and  प्रायः  feature interviews with a number of different guests  .
बात  radio typically  शामिल   an  element  of  listener participation  ,   प्रायः  by broadcasting  सजीव  conversations  between  the host and  श्रोता  who ``  कॉल  in '' (  प्रायः  via  टेलीफोन   )  to  the  show  .
श्रोता  contributions are usually  screened  by  a   दिखाएँ  's producer ( s ) in order to  अधिकतम   दर्शक  interest  और   ,  in the  मामला   of  commercial  बात  radio  ,   आकर्षित  advertisers  .
generally  , the shows are organized into segments ,  प्रत्येक   अलग   by   a   ठहराना  for advertisements ; however  ,  in  पब्लिक  or non-commercial  रेडियो  , music  is  sometimes played in place of commercials  to   पृथक   the  program segments .
Variations of talk radio  शामिल   रूढ़िवादी  talk  ,  hot talk  ,   उदार   बात  and sports talk .
जबकि  talk  रेडियो  has historically  महरूम   संबद्ध   साथ  AM/FM , starting around 2005 the technology for Internet-based  talk-radio  shows  became  cost  प्रभावी   in  the form of podcasts .
Now  ,  it is  संभावित   लिये  an individual  to   उपयोग   a  variety of services  to   मेजबान  an  internet-based  talk-radio show  बगैर  carriage by a  परंपरागत  radio  स्टेशन   .
in   जोड   tv  programming from talk and news outlets  ऐसे  as BBC  ,   सीएनएन   ,   ब्लूमबर्ग  and  फॉक्स   हैं  now  प्रायः  available expanding  the  world  of   बात  radio  further   .
Talk radio listening is now  enjoyed  not  तभी   on   radios   ,  but  a  wide variety of other  डिवाइस  and services including PCs  using  iTunes , station  निर्देशिका   ऐसे   as  Tunein ,  दिखाएँ  directory  स्मार्टफ़ोन  with  ऐप्स  such as  stitcher  .
hippa   is  a  genus  of  decapod   crustaceans  in the  परिवार   hippidae  , containing  the  following  species:
hippa   adactyla  Fabricius  ,  1787
Hippa  admirabilis  ( Thallwitz , 1892  )
Hippa  alcimede  ( De Man ,  1902  )
Hippa australis  hale   ,   1927
Hippa carcineutes  holthuis  & Manning  ,  1970
Hippa celaeno ( de  man  , 1896  )
hippa  granulatus  (  Borradaile , 1904 )
Hippa hirtipes ( Dana , 1852 )
hippa   इंडिका  Haig ,  मुरुगन   &   बालकृष्णन  Nair  ,  1986
Hippa marmorata (  hombron  & Jacquinot  ,  1846  )
Hippa ovalis (  A.  Milne-Edwards  ,   1862  )
Hippa  picta  ( Heller , 1861 )
hippa  strigillata  (  Stimpson ,  1860   )
Hippa testudinaria (  herbst  , 1791  )
Hippa truncatifrons  (   miers   ,  1878 )
it  is closely  सम्बन्धित  to the  genus  Emerita , and species  have  often been transferred  between  the  दो   genera   .
जकार्ता   (  ) ,  officially  known  as  the Special  पूंजी   प्रदेश   of   जकार्ता   (   )   ,   is  the  पूंजी  and  largest   नगर  of  इंडोनेशिया  .
Located  on  the  उत्तरपश्चिम  coast  of   जावा   ,  Jakarta is  the   देश  's economic  ,   सांस्कृतिक  and political  केन्द्र  , and with a  जनसांख्यिकी   of  10,187,595 as of November  2011   ,  it is  the   सबसे  populous city  in  Indonesia  और   in  Southeast Asia  ,   और  is the  तेरहवीं   सबसे   आबादी  city  in  the world  .
the  official  महानगर   क्षेत्रफल  ,  ज्ञात   as  Jabodetabek  (   a   नाम  formed by  combining  the initial  syllables  of  जकार्ता   ,  Bogor , Depok ,  tangerang  and Bekasi ) ,  is  the  दूसरी  largest  in   the  world  ,  yet  the   metropolis  's  उपनगरों  still continue  परे   it   .
Jakarta is listed  as  a global city in the 2008  वैश्वीकरण  and World  शहरों  Study Group and Network ( GaWC )  शोध  .
and  रै  an area  of  .
इस  area has  जनसांख्यिकी  of  खूब   over  28 million ,  बनाना  it  एक   of   the  world  's  largest conurbations  in  terms of number of inhabitants .
in  2011  ,   जकार्ता   क्रमित   17th  among the  संसार  's  200  largest  शहरों  ,  a  jump from  इसके  2007 ranking of  171   .
जकार्ता   रै   grown  more rapidly than  kuala  Lumpur  ,  Beijing  और   बैंकॉक  .
Established in the  चौथी   सदी  , the city became an important trading port for the Kingdom of  sunda   .
It  थी   the  de facto capital of the Dutch  ईस्ट  Indies (  जब   it  was  ज्ञात  as Batavia  )   और  has continued  as   the  capital of Indonesia  चूंकि   the   देश   's   स्वतंत्रता  was declared in 1945  .
the  city is the seat of the ASEAN Secretariat  .
Jakarta  is  served by the Soekarno–Hatta  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   विमानक्षेत्र  , Halim  perdanakusuma   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   विमानक्षेत्र  ,  और  Tanjung Priok  harbour   ;   it  is connected by several intercity and  commuter  railways  ,  and served by  अनेक  bus lines running  on  reserved busways .
a  typical home air conditioning window  ईकाई  .
Air conditioning is  the   प्रक्रम  of  altering  the  गुण  of air ( primarily temperature  और  humidity  )  to  अधिक  favourable  शर्तें  .
More  generally   ,   एयर   कंडीशनिंग   can   refer   to  any  रूप  of  technological  cooling ,  हीटिंग   ,  ventilation  ,  or disinfection  कि  modifies the  कंडीशन  of  एयर   .
An air conditioner ( often referred  to   as   एयर  con  ,  AC or  a/c  ,  और   नहीं   to  be confused  साथ  the  संक्षिप्त   लिये  alternating current ) is a major or  घर   appliance  , system ,  or  mechanism designed  to  change the  एयर  temperature  और  humidity within an area  (   प्रयुक्त   लिये  cooling and sometimes heating depending on the  एयर   गुण   at  a  दिए  time  )   .
The cooling  is  typically  किया  using  a   सरल  refrigeration cycle  ,  but sometimes evaporation  is  used ,  commonly   लिये   सुकून  cooling in buildings and motor  वाहनों   .
In construction , a complete system of heating , ventilation and air conditioning is referred to  as  `` HVAC `` .
``   6   पैर  7 Foot  ''  (  भी   styled  as  ``   6'7  '' ) is a  सोंग   by  American  rapper  Lil  वेन  featuring label mate  ,   कोरी  Gunz .
It  is  taken from  उसके  ninth studio  एल्बम   ,  Tha Carter IV  (  2011 )  .
it  was officially  released   on   itunes   on  December 16 ,  2010  .
It was produced by  ``  A Milli ``  निर्माता   बांग्लादेश  .
the  song samples `` Day-O ( The Banana  नाव  Song  )   ``   by  Harry Belafonte  .
dc   बात  ( styled  as  dc  बात  ) ,  is  a Grammy -winning Christian rap  तिकड़ी   .
The group  थी  formed  in  Lynchburg ,  वर्जिनिया  in 1987 by Toby  mckeehan   ,  Michael  tait  , and  केविन  Max  स्मिथ  .
वे  have  released  five  प्रमुख  studio albums together :  dc   बात  (  1989  ) ,  nu  Thang  (   1990   )  ,  फ़्री  at Last ( 1992 )  ,  Jesus  freak  ( 1995  )  ,  और  Supernatural ( 1998 ) .
in  2002  ,   the   ज्ञानकोष  of Contemporary Christian Music  पुकारा   dc   बात  ``  the   सबसे   लोकप्रिय  overtly Christian  अधिनियम   of  all time  .  ''
in  2000  ,  the  समूह   released  an  ep   titled  Solo which  contained   दो  solo songs from each member  .
Since that time  ,  DC Talk  रै  been  on   an   indefinite  hiatus ,  और   the  three band  सदस्यों   have  each led  सोलो  careers .
वे   have  performed and recorded individual  गीतों   साथ  several  टाइम्स  during the 2000s ,  हालांकि   the   समूह  never  officially   reunited  or  disbanded   .
The group 's musical style  विकसित  significantly throughout their career  .
उनके  first two  रिलीज  , DC Talk  और  Nu Thang  ,  were of  the  hip hop genre  .
DC Talk 's  तीसरा  album ,  फ़्री   at  Last ,  भी  mainly  took   influence  from the hip  हॉप  style , although their  म्यूज़िक   began  taking on a rock sound .
The trio  's  last two albums ,  यीशु   freak   और   अलौकिक   ,  were  predominantly   पॉप  rock .
The Bible  is   a   संकलन   of   अनेक   shorter   किताबे  written  at  different  टाइम्स  and  बाद  assembled into the biblical  canon   .
सब   लकिन   the   shortest   of  these books  have   महरूम   विभाजित  into chapters , generally a page or so in  लंबाई  , since  the   जल्दी  13th  सदी   .
चूंकि  the  mid-16th   सदी  ,  प्रत्येक   अध्याय   रै   महरूम  further  विभाजित  into ``  आयतें  '' of  a  few short lines  or  sentences .
sometimes   a   वाक्य   spans  more than  एक  verse , as  in   the  case of ,  और   sometimes  there is  अधिक   than   एक   वाक्य  in a  सिंगल  verse  ,   as   in   the  case of .
as   the   अध्याय   और  verse divisions were  नहीं   भाग  of the  असली   ग्रन्थ  ,  वे   रूप   भाग  of the paratext of the Bible  .
The  यहूदी   विभाजन  of the  यहूदी  text differ at various points from those used by Christians .
लिये  instance  ,  in  यहूदी  tradition  ,  the ascriptions to many Psalms are regarded as  स्वतंत्र  verses  ,  making 116 more verses ,  whereas   the   स्थापित   ईसाई  practice is to count and number each  psalm  ascription together with  the  first verse following  it  .
Some chapter  विभाजन  also occur  in   अलग   स्थान   ,   e.g  . in  यहूदी  Bibles  is   गिने  as  in  Christian translations .
An  अनुक्रमणिका   (  plural  :   indexes  )  is  a  सूची  of  शब्द  or  वाक्यांश   (   'headings   '  ) and  संबद्ध   संकेतक  (  'लोकेटरs   '  ) to where  उपयोगी  material relating  to   कि  heading can  be  found in a  दस्तावेज़  .
In a  परंपरागत   back-of-the-book   अनुक्रमणिका   the  headings will include  names   of   लोगों   ,  places  और  events , and concepts selected by  a   व्यक्ति  as  होने  relevant and of  ब्याज  to a possible  रीडर   of  the book  .
the  pointers are typically page  संख्याएँ   ,   अनुच्छेद   संख्याएँ   or  section numbers .
In a library  कैटलॉग   the  words are authors  ,  titles , subject headings , etc.  ,   और   the   संकेतक   हैं  call numbers .
Internet  ढूंढें  engines , such  as  Google ,  और   पूरा   टेक्स्ट   searching   सहायता  provide access  to   सूचना  but are not as selective  as  an  अनुक्रमणिका  ,  as  they  provide   non-relevant  links  ,   और  may miss relevant information  if   it   is  not phrased in exactly the way they expect .
In United  राज्य   वित्तीय   विनियमन  , a suspicious activity report (  or  SAR ) is  a   रपट   बना   by  a  वित्तीय  institution to the Financial  अपराधों  Enforcement Network  (  FinCEN )  ,   an   एजेंसी   of   the   संयुक्त  States Department  of  the  राजकोष  ,  regarding  suspicious or  potentially  suspicious activity .
Facebook  on  the Ad-tech  2010
Facebook is an  ऑनलाइन  social  नेटवर्किंग  service  ,  whose  नाम   तना   इससे   the  colloquial  नाम   लिये  the book given  to   विद्यार्थी   at   the   प्रारंभ  of the academic year  by   कुछ  university administrations  in   the  United  राज्य   to  help students  मिलेंगी   to   जान   प्रत्येक   अन्य   .
It was founded  in  February  2004   by  Mark Zuckerberg with his  कॉलेज   roommates  and  fellow  Harvard University students  एडुआर्डो  Saverin  ,  Andrew McCollum ,  डस्टिन   moskovitz  and Chris Hughes .
The website 's membership was  initially  limited by  the  founders  to  Harvard  विद्यार्थी   ,  but was expanded  to  other colleges  in  the  बोस्टन  area  ,   the  Ivy League , and Stanford  विश्वविद्यालयों  .
It  धीरे  added  support   लिये   विद्यार्थी   at  various other universities before opening  to  high school  विद्यार्थी   ,  and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over .
Facebook now  allows   कोई   उपयोक्ता   जो  declare  themselves  to be at  तनिक   13  years  बूढ़ा  to become registered users  of  the  साईट  .
उपयोक्ता  must register  पहले  using the  साईट   ,   बाद   जिससे   वे  may  बनाएँ  a personal profile  ,  add other users as friends , and exchange messages , including  स्वचालित  notifications  जब  they update their profile  .
Additionally ,  उपयोक्ता   may  join common-interest user  समूह   ,   व्यवस्थित   by   कार्यस्थल   ,   स्कूल  or college ,  or   अन्य  characteristics ,  और  categorize their friends  into  lists such  as   ``  People  इससे   कार्य  '' or `` Close  मित्रों   ''  .
As of September  2012   ,   फेसबुक  has over  एक  billion  क्रियाशील   उपयोक्ता  .
according  to  a   may  2011  उपभोक्ता  Reports  सर्वेक्षण  , there  हैं  7.5 million  children  under  13  with accounts  और   5  million  अंतर्गत  10 , violating  the  site 's  शर्तें  of service  .
In  may   2005   ,  Accel  साझेदार  invested  $  12.7 million  in  Facebook ,  और  Jim Breyer added $  1  million  of   उसके  own money  to   the  pot .
a  January 2009 Compete.com study ranked  फेसबुक  as  the  most used social networking service by  विश्वव्यापी  monthly  क्रियाशील   उपयोक्ता   .
Entertainment Weekly  शामिल   the  site  on  its end-of-the-decade `` best-of  ''  list ,  saying  ,  ``  How on earth did  we   stalk  our exes ,  याद   हमारी  co-workers ' birthdays , bug our friends ,  और  play  a   rousing  game  of  Scrabulous before Facebook ?  ''
Critics , such  as  Facebook  detox  , state that Facebook has  turned   into  a national obsession  in  the United States , resulting in vast amounts  of  time lost and encouraging narcissism .
quantcast  estimates  फेसबुक   रै  138.9 million monthly  अद्वितीय   u.S.  visitors  in  May 2011 .
According to Social Media  आज   ,  in April  2010   an   अनुमानित  41.6 %  (  129.5 million ) of the  u.S.   जनसांख्यिकी  had  a   फेसबुक   खाता   .
Nevertheless  ,   फेसबुक  's  मार्केट   विकास   प्रारंभ   to   स्टाल   in  some regions  ,   साथ  the site  खोने  7 million active  उपयोक्ता  in the  संयुक्त  States and Canada  in  May  2011  .
Facebook eventually filed  लिये  an initial public offering on February 1  ,  2012 ,  और  was headquartered in Menlo  पार्क  ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Facebook Inc. began selling stock  to  the  पब्लिक  and trading  on  the  नैस्डैक   on  May 18  ,  2012 .
सल्फोनेमाइड  functional group
Hydrochlorothiazide is  a   सल्फोनेमाइड  and a thiazide .
furosemide  is  a   सल्फोनेमाइड  , but not a  thiazide   .
सल्फोनेमाइड   or   sulphonamide  is the basis of  अनेक  groups  of  drugs  .
The  असली  antibacterial sulfonamides ( sometimes  पुकारा  sulfa drugs  or   sulpha  drugs )  हैं  synthetic antimicrobial  एजेंटों   कि  contain  the   सल्फोनेमाइड  group .
Some  sulfonamides  are  भी   विहीन  of antibacterial activity ,  e.g.  , the anticonvulsant sultiame .
The  sulfonylureas  and thiazide diuretics  हैं   नए  drug  समूह  based  on  the antibacterial sulfonamides .
Sulfa allergies  हैं  common , hence medications containing sulfonamides are prescribed  carefully  .
It is important  to   मेक  a distinction between sulfa drugs  और  other  sulfur-containing   दवाएँ   और  additives  ,   ऐसे  as sulfates and  sulfites   ,  which  हैं   chemically  unrelated to  the   सल्फोनेमाइड   समूह   ,   और  do not cause  the  same hypersensitivity reactions  देखी  in  the  sulfonamides  .
This  is  a list of  वर्ण  from  जार्ज   लोपेज़   .
घरेलू  geese  (  Anser anser  domesticus  or  आंसर  cygnoides )  हैं  domesticated grey  geese   (  either Greylag Geese  or   swan  Geese  )  kept as  मुर्गीपालन  for  उनके  meat , eggs , and down feathers since  प्राचीन   टाइम्स  .
30  Seconds  to  Mars  is  an American rock band  इससे   लॉस   एंजिल्स  , formed in 1998  .
Since  2007  , the  बैंड   रै  consisted of actor Jared Leto (  सीसे   vocals   ,  rhythm  गिटार  , songwriter ) , Shannon Leto  (   ड्रम   ,  percussion ) and  tomo  Miličević ( lead guitar , keyboards  )   .
Following the departure of Matt Wachter  (  now  of  Angels  &   airwaves  ) in  2007  , Tim Kelleher became the bassist for the  समूह   ,  performing live  तभी   साथ  both Jared and  miličević  recording bass for studio recordings , while  braxton   olita  ( keyboards )  थी  added  to  the touring lineup in 2009  .
Previously , the group  भी   प्रदर्शित  guitarists Solon  bixler  ( now of Great Northern  )  and  केविन  Drake  (   अभी  of Polaroid Kiss  )  .
to  date , 30  सेकेंड  to Mars  have   released  three studio  एल्बम  – 30 Seconds  to  Mars ( 2002 ) ,  a  Beautiful Lie ( 2005 ) ,  इस   is  War ( 2009  )   और   तीन  extended plays –  एओएल  Sessions  अंडरकवर   (  2007 )  ,   to   the  Edge of  the  Earth  (  2008  )  ,  और  MTV Unplugged  :  30  सेकेंड  to  मंगल   (   2011   )  .
30   सेकेंड  to Mars '  म्यूज़िक   रै   महरूम   संबद्ध   ज़्यादातर  with neo-prog  ,  progressive metal  और   post-grunge  , but they have  भी   शामिल   भावनाएं  , screamo , space  चट्टान  and synthrock  into  their  म्यूज़िक  .
They have been  compared   to  Pink Floyd  (  who were  an  influence on their work ) and  औजार  because of their  उपयोग   of  philosophical and  आध्यात्मिक  lyrics , concept albums and their  उपयोग   of  experimental music  .
A Christmas  स्टोरी  is a 1983  अमरीकी  Christmas comedy film based on  the   छोटी   कहानियां   और   semi-fictional  anecdotes of author  और  raconteur Jean Shepherd ,  आधारित  on  उसके   किताब  In God  we  Trust ,  सब  Others Pay  नकदी   ,  with some elements derived from Wanda Hickey 's  रात्रि   of   सुनहरी  Memories .
it   थी   निर्देशित  by Bob  क्लार्क  .
The film has  चूंकि  become  a   अवकाश   क्लासिक  and is  दिखाया  numerous  टाइम्स   on  television  दौरान  the Christmas season  on   the   संजाल  TBS  ,  often in  a  24-hour marathon .
in   2012  , the film was selected  लिये   संरक्षण  in the National Film Registry by  the  Library of Congress  लिये  being `` culturally , historically  ,  or aesthetically significant  ''  .
a  Joe  's  Crab Shack branch  in   सैन   डिएगो   ,   ca  .
the   भवन  was  initially   a  rowing  क्लबों  and was later converted into  the  restaurant  .
Joe 's Crab  shack  is  an  American chain  of  beach-themed seafood  कैज़ुअल   डाइनिंग  restaurants owned  by  Ignite Restaurant Group  .
संस्थापित   in   ह्यूस्टन   ,   टेक्सास  , the  रेस्तरां   अभी  operates locations all  आरपार  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  of America  .
It serves seafood and  अमरीकी   भोजन  .
the   रेस्तरां   भी   have  a  तोहफा   दूकान  that sells facetious t-shirts  featuring  phrases advertising  जो   's   seafood  choices  .
it   is   आधारित  in  ह्यूस्टन  , Texas .
New  यॉर्क  City  क्रूज   लाइनर  Terminal  in   नरक  's  रसोईघर  at  52nd  Street .
The New York Passenger  जलयान  Terminal  (  also known  as   the   लक्ज़री   लाइनर  Row  or   मैनहटन  Cruise Terminal  or  New  यॉर्क   क्रूज  Terminal ) is  a   टर्मिनल  for  ocean-going   यात्री  ships  on  Manhattan 's  वेस्ट  side  .
The terminal  consists  of North River  पियर   88   ,  90 , 92 and  94  on the  हडसन   नदी  between  वेस्ट  46th and West  54th  Street .
(  As a  सामान्य   नियम  , pier  संख्याएँ   in   मैनहटन  can be  संकल्पित  by adding 40  to   the   सम्बन्धित   cross-street   .   )
Ships now dock  at   पियर  88 ,  90   और   92  .
Pier 94  on   the  north  पक्ष   is  now used for  प्रदर्शनी  space .
Pier 86  ,  once  प्रयुक्त   by   संयुक्त  States  लाइनों   ,  is  अभी   घर  to  the  USS Intrepid  .
In 2003 , the  टर्मिनल  handled 900,000 passengers .
The  नगर   is  forecasting  कि  1.5 million will use  the  terminal by 2017  .
The piers are  long  and apart .
वे   यहूद  first  समाप्त  in  1935   to   बदलें   the  Chelsea Piers as the city 's luxury  लाइनर  terminal  .
the  new terminal was built to handle bigger ships that  था   outgrown  the Chelsea Piers .
The  पियर  were renovated in  1970  and are currently undergoing another $ 150  लाख   नवीकरण  .
the  renovated plans call  लिये  it  to  handle three  विशाल   जहाजों  at a time .
In doing  renovations  ,  the   नगर  is also considering decommissioning Pier 92 .
लोगो  of  the  New  यॉर्क  Cruise Terminal.For
decades the  टर्मिनल   थी   the  only ocean-going  यात्री  terminal in New  यॉर्क  harbor .
साथ  an  upsurge  in cruise  जलयान   ट्रैफ़िक  and the  टर्मिनल  's  क्षमता  to handle comfortably  तभी  three  विशाल  ships at a time  ,   दो   नई   terminals  have opened in the  हार्बर  — the  केप  Liberty Cruise Port opened  in   2004  in Bayonne  ,  New  जर्सी  (  प्रयुक्त  by Royal Caribbean Cruise  लकीर  ,  हस्ती   क्रूज़  and Azamara  क्रूज़   )  ,  और  the Brooklyn Cruise Terminal  (   प्रयुक्त   by  the  महारानी   मरियम  2 and other ships  of   the   कार्निवल  Corporation cruise brands  )   खोली  in 2006  in   ब्रुकलीन  ,  नई  York .
the  West Side  राजमार्ग   takes  a small  जोग  east from  the  piers to below West 42nd Street because when  the   टर्मिनल  was built land had  to   be   लिया   दूर  from  मैनहटन   to   allow  for longer piers .
the  US  फौज  Corps of Engineers , who control  the   waterfront   आयाम  ,  होता  not  extend  the pierhead  लकीर  farther into  the  river  ,   so  the city extended the pier by cutting  दूर  at the land .
The city earlier did  इस  for  the  Chelsea Piers  ;  however  in   चेल्सी   तभी  landfill was taken away .
At the Passenger Terminal actual Manhattan schist was taken away .
From  डाउनस्ट्रीम   in   the   नदी
अनेक   प्रमुख  passenger ships  have   docked  there , including  the  RMS Queen Mary  2   और   स्वतंत्रता  of the  समंदर  , before  the  Brooklyn and Bayonne terminals  खोली   .
the   ss  Normandie caught fire and  subsequently  capsized at  इसके   बांध  88  berth   दौरान  World  युद्ध  II .
The Normandie , renamed  uss   lafayette  , lies capsized  in   the   frozen  mud at Pier 88 in the winter  of   1942
Norwegian Cruise Line  's   जल्द   to  be  नवीनतम  ship the  नॉर्वेजियाई   breakaway  will  पाल  year-round  आउट  of the New York Passenger Ship Terminal  .
The city will spend  $  4 million to  renovate   और  upgrade  the   क्रूज   टर्मिनल  to  accommodate   the   जलयान  .
This  is   an  overview  of   the   नियमित  , recurring , and  अन्य  characters of the TV series  ncis   .
Christian right  is   a   पद  used in the United States  to  describe right-wing Christian political  समूह  that  हैं  characterized  by  their strong  support   of   socially  conservative policies  .
ईसाई   conservatives   प्रधानतया  seek to apply their  समझना  of  the   शिक्षाओं   of  Christianity  to   राजनीती  and public  नीति   by   proclaiming   the   मान  of  those  teachings and/or  by  seeking to  उपयोग   those  teachings to influence law and public policy .
In the U.S. ,  the   ईसाई   सही  is an  अनौपचारिक  coalition formed around a  कोर  of  धर्मान्तरण  Protestants  कि  draws  ``  support from politically conservative  catholics  , Jews ,  mormons   ,  and occasionally secularists '' who share their  लक्ष्य   .
the   गति  has  इसके   जड़ें   in  American politics  going  back as far the  1940s  and  रै  been especially influential since the  1970s   .
उनके  influence  draws  , in part , from  grassroots  activism as well as their  फ़ोकस   on   सोशल   मुद्दे  and ability  to   motivate  the electorate around  those  issues .
The  ईसाई   सही   is  notable today  लिये  advancing  socially  conservative  स्थितियाँ   on   मुद्दे  including school prayer , stem  कोशिका  research  ,  homosexuality  ,   निरोधक   ,  abortion  ,  and  pornography  .
Although  the  Christian right is  प्रायः  associated with the U.S. ,  the  movement has been a key factor  in  the politics of Canada  ,  The Netherlands  ,   उत्तरी  Ireland  और  Australia  ,   among  others .
दूर   ईस्ट   गति   (  stylized as Far★East Movement or  abbreviated  FM ) is  an  American  हिप  hop band  quartet  based in Los Angeles .
the  group  formed   in   2003  and consists of Kev  nish  ( Kevin  nishimura   )  ,  prohgress   (  James Roh ) , J-Splif  (  Jae Choung  )   ,   और   dj   virman  (  virman  Coquia )  .
दूर   ईस्ट  Movement 's first claim to fame  थी  their song ``  गोलाकार  Round ''  प्रदर्शित  in the Hollywood  फिल्म  , The  तेज़  and the Furious  :  Tokyo Drift  ,   और   इसके  subsequent soundtrack  ,   वीडियो  game  और  DVD  .
Since `` Round  गोलाकार   ''  ,  the  group  रै  been featured on various network  shows  including , , Entourage ,  गपशप   लड़की  ,  और  Finishing  the  Game ( a  प्रदर्शित   फिल्मी  at Sundance  2007   )   .
Their single `` Like  a  G6 ``  hit  number one on the Billboard  hot  100 Chart  और  on  itunes  as well in late  अक्तूबर   2010   .
दूर   ईस्ट  Movement  भी  has  the   भेद  of being  the   पहला  Asian-American  समूह   to   earn  a  #  1  hit   on   the  Billboard  hot   100  in the United  राज्य   .
LR44 is the  आईईसी  designation  लिये  an alkaline  1.5  volt button cell ,  commonly   प्रयुक्त  in  छोटी  LED flashlights ,  डिजिटल   thermometers  , calculators , calipers , watches , clocks , toys  और  laser pointers .
LR44  क्षारीय   कोशिका
the  battery nomenclature  is  defined by  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   विद्युततकनीकी   आयोग  ( IEC ) in its 60086-3 standard  (  Primary  बैटरी  ,  भाग  3  देखें  batteries  )   .
the  letter  l  indicates  the   electrochemical  system  प्रयुक्त  ; a zinc  ऋणात्मक  electrode ,  मैंगनीज  dioxide depolarizer  और  positive electrode , and an  क्षारीय  electrolyte .
r44  indicates  a   गोलाकार  cell  11.4±0.2  mm diameter  और  5.2±0.2 mm height as  पारिभाषित  by the IEC  मानक  60086  .
Manufacturers have their own  भाग   संख्याएँ  for IEC type LR44 batteries including:
LR44  ,  LR44G  ,  LR44GD ,  lr44h
LR1154 ,  l1154   ,  L1154C  ,  L1154F , L1154G ,  l1154h
6135-99-792-8475  (  NSN )
1166A
AG13 ,  a613   ,   ag14  ,  ag-14  , G13A ,  g13-a
157  ,  303  ,  357
A76 , GDA76  ,   gp76a   ,   gpa7  ,  gpa75  ,  gpa76   ,  GPS76A,
1128MP  ,   208-904   ,   a-76   ,   ca18   ,   ca19  , CR44  ,   d76a  , KA  ,  KA76  ,  MS76H , PX76A , PX675A  ,   rpx675   ,  RW82  ,  SB-F9 , V13GA
4.5-volt   ,   d   ,  C  ,  AA , AAA ,  aaaa   ,  A23 , 9-volt , CR2032  और   lr44   बैटरी
अन्य  types of batteries  हैं   or  were made in  the   r44   आकार   .
formerly   ,   पारा   बैटरी   यहूद  made  as   बटन  cells  (  types  mr44   और  NR44 ) .
zinc-air   बैटरी  type PR44  आवश्यकता   एयर   to  work .
Silver-oxide  बैटरी  type  sr44  may  provide   अतिरिक्त  capacity compared to  lr44  types  लकिन   have  slightly different voltage  विशेषताएँ  .
Performance of  a  device  meant  to use a  silver-oxide  battery may  be   degraded  with substitution  of  LR44 types  .
निर्माता  's numbers for silver oxide R44  आकार  cells include:
SR44/SR44W/SR44SW
6135-99-651-3240 ( NSN )
sr1154
1107so
1131SOP
SG13
S76
EPX76 ( Energizer )
303/357   (  D357H )
hurricane  Katrina was the deadliest  और   सबसे  destructive Atlantic hurricane  of   the   2005  Atlantic hurricane season .
it  was  the  costliest natural  विपत्ति  , as  खूब   as   एक   of  the  पाँच  deadliest hurricanes , in  the  history of the  संयुक्त  States  .
among   अंकित  Atlantic hurricanes , it was  the  sixth strongest overall .
At least  1,833  people  died  in the hurricane  और   subsequent  floods ,  बनाना   it   the  deadliest U.S.  hurricane   चूंकि   the  1928  okeechobee   hurricane  ; total property damage was  अनुमानित   at   $  81 billion ( 2005 USD ) , nearly  ट्रिपल  the damage brought by  hurricane   एंड्रयू  in  1992  .
hurricane   कैटरीना  formed  over  the Bahamas on  अगस्त   23   ,  2005 and  crossed   दक्षिणी   फ्लोरिडा   as  a moderate  श्रेणी   1  hurricane , causing some deaths and flooding  वहीँ  before  strengthening  rapidly in the  गल्फ  of Mexico .
The hurricane strengthened to  a  Category 5  hurricane  over the  गरम  Gulf water , but weakened before making  इसके   दूसरी  landfall as a  श्रेणी  3 hurricane on  the  morning of  सोमवार  , August  29  in southeast Louisiana .
It  caused  severe  विनाश  along the Gulf coast from central  फ्लोरिडा  to  टेक्सास  , much of it due to the  तूफ़ान  surge .
The most significant  क्रमांक  of  मौतों  occurred in New  ऑरलियन्स  ,  louisiana  ,  जिससे   flooded   as  the  तटबन्ध   प्रणाली  catastrophically failed  ,   in  many cases  घंटों  after  the  storm had moved  अंतर्देशीय  .
Eventually 80 % of the  नगर   और  large  tracts   of   neighboring  parishes became flooded , and the floodwaters lingered for weeks  .
however  , the worst  प्रॉपर्टी  damage occurred in coastal areas , such  as   सब  Mississippi beachfront towns  ,   जिससे  were flooded over  90   %  in hours ,  as  boats and casino  barges  rammed  इमारतें   ,   pushing  cars and houses inland , with waters reaching  6–12  miles  (  10–19 km  )  from the  बीच  .
the   hurricane   surge   सुरक्षा  failures in New  ऑरलियन्स   हैं  considered the worst civil  अभियान्त्रिकी   विपत्ति  in  u.S.  history and prompted  a   मुकदमा  against the U.S.  फौज   corps  of Engineers  (  USACE ) ,  the  designers  और   बिल्डर   of  the levee system  as  mandated by the  बाढ़  Control Act  of  1965  .
Responsibility for  the  failures and flooding was laid  squarely   on   the  Army Corps  in   जनवरी   2008  by Judge Stanwood  डुवल  , U.S.  ज़िला  Court  ,  but the federal  एजेंसी  could  नहीं  be  आयोजित  financially liable due  to   sovereign  immunity in the  बाढ़  Control Act of  1928   .
There  थी  also an investigation of  the  responses from  संघीय  , state and  लोकल   सरकारें   ,   resulting  in the resignation  of   संघीय  Emergency  प्रबन्धन  Agency  (  FEMA  )  director Michael  D.  Brown ,  और   of  New Orleans Police Department ( NOPD )  अधीक्षक  Eddie Compass  .
Several agencies  सहित  the United  राज्य   coast   गार्ड  ( USCG )  ,  National  hurricane   बीच  ( NHC  )  , and National Weather Service  (   nws   )   यहूद   commended  for their  क्रियाएँ  .
They  provided   सटीक   hurricane   मौसम  tracking  forecasts  with sufficient  सीसे  time .
Even  the  most  insistent   appeals  from  नेशनल  , state and local  पब्लिक   officials   to  residents to evacuate before  the  storm did  नहीं  warn that the levees  could  breach  और  fail .
U.S. debt  इससे   1940  to 2011  .
रेड   लाइनों  indicate the  ``  debt  आयोजित   by  the public  ''  and  ब्लैक  lines  indicate   the  total national debt or  सकल  public  कर्ज़   .
The  अंतर  is the ``  intragovernmental  debt ,  ''  which  शामिल  obligations to government  कार्यक्रम  such  as  Social Security .
Stated as a  सूत्र   ,   नेशनल   कर्ज़  =  कर्ज़  held by  the   पब्लिक   +  Intragovernmental  कर्ज़   .
the  second panel shows  the  two  कर्ज़  figures  as   a  percentage  of   u.S.  GDP ( dollar value of U.S. economic production for  कि  year  )  .
The top panel is deflated  so  every year  is   in  2010  डॉलर   .
The  संयुक्त   राज्य   पब्लिक   कर्ज़   is  the  धन   उधार   by  the federal  सरकारी  of the United  राज्य   through   the   issuing  of securities  by  the Treasury and other federal  सरकारी   एजेंसियों  .
US public  कर्ज़  consists of  दो   घटकs:
Debt held by  the   पब्लिक   शामिल   राजकोष  securities held by investors  बाहर   the   संघीय  government  ,  including  कि   आयोजित  by  individuals   ,  corporations , the Federal Reserve  प्रणाली   और  foreign , state  और   लोकल   सरकारें  .
Debt  आयोजित   by  government  खाते  or  intragovernmental  debt  शामिल  non-marketable Treasury securities  आयोजित  in accounts administered by  the  federal  सरकारी  that  हैं   owed  to  कार्यक्रम  beneficiaries , such  as   the  Social Security Trust Fund .
कर्ज़  held  by  government accounts represents the  संचयी  surpluses  ,  including interest earnings  ,  of these  खाते   कि   have   महरूम   invested  in Treasury securities  .
पब्लिक   कर्ज़   increases  or decreases as  a  result  of   the   सालाना   एकीकृत  budget  deficit  or  surplus  .
The federal  सरकारी  budget deficit or  surplus   is  the difference  between  government receipts and spending  ,   ignoring   intra-governmental  transfers .
However  ,  some spending  कि   is  excluded from the  deficit   (  supplemental  appropriations  ) also adds  to  the debt  .
Historically  ,  the  us  public debt as a  share   of  GDP  increased  during wars  और  recessions  ,  and subsequently declined .
लिये  example , debt  आयोजित  by the public as  a  share  of   जीडीपी  peaked  बस  after World War  ii   (  113  %  of GDP in 1945  )  ,  लकिन  then fell over the  following   30   सालो  .
In  हाल   दशकों   ,  however , large budget  deficits   और   the   resulting  increases  in   कर्ज़  have led to concern  परिचय   the  long-term sustainability  of  the federal government 's  फिस्कल   नीतियों  .
On 2  अप्रैल  2013  ,  debt held by the public  थी   लगभग  $ 11.959 trillion  or   परिचय   75  % of GDP .
Intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 trillion  ,   giving  a combined total public debt  of   $  16.805 trillion .
as  of  जनवरी  2013  ,   $  5.6  खरब  or approximately  47  % of the debt  आयोजित  by  the  public  थी  owned by foreign investors ,  the   largest   of   जिससे   यहूद   the   लोगों  's Republic  of   चीन  and Japan  at   बस   over   $  1.1  खरब  each .
in  basketball , an  assist   is   attributed  to a player  जो  passes  the   बॉल  to a  teammate  in  a   रास्ता   कि   लीड  to a score  by   फ़ील्ड  goal  ,   अर्थ  that he or  वो  was  ``   assisting  '' in the basket  .
There is  कुछ   निर्णय   शामिल   in  deciding whether a passer should  be  credited with an assist .
an   assist  can be scored  लिये  the  passer   भी  if the player who  receives  the  pass   makes   a  basket after dribbling  the  ball .
however  , the original  परिभाषा  of an assist  किया  not include  ऐसे  situations , so the  तुलना  of assist  आंकडे   आरपार  eras is  a   जटिल  matter  .
तभी  the pass directly before the  स्कोर   may  be counted as  an  assist  ,  so no more  than  one  assist  can be  अंकित   प्रति   फ़ील्ड  goal  (  unlike in  अन्य  sports ,  ऐसे   as  ice hockey )  .
A  pass   कि   लीड  to a shooting  बेईमानी  and  स्कोरिंग  by free  throws   करता  not count  as   an  assist in  the  NBA ,  लकिन   करता   in  FIBA play  (   तभी   एक  assist  is   awarded  per  नियत   of   फ़्री   throws  in which at least  एक   फ़्री   throw  is made  )   .
Point guards tend to get  the  most assists  प्रति   खेल   (   apg   )   ,  as  उनके  role  is   primarily  that of a passer  और   ballhandler  .
Centers tend to get  कम  assists  ,  but  centers  with  शुभ   मंजिल  presence and court vision can  dominate   a  team  by  assisting  .
Being  अंदर  the key , the center often has the  बेहतरीन  angles and the  बेहतरीन  position for `` dishes '' and  अन्य   छोटी  passes in the scoring  क्षेत्रफल   .
बीच  Wilt  चेम्बरलेन  led the NBA in assists in  1968  .
a   दमदार   बीच  with  inside-scoring  prowess  ,   ऐसे  as  पूर्व  NBA center Hakeem Olajuwon  ,   can   भी  be  an  effective  assistor  because  the   रक्षा  's double-teaming  tends   to   खोलें  up offense  in  the form of  निशानेबाज  .
The  एनबीए  single-game  assist   रिकार्ड  is 30  ,  held by Scott  skiles   of   the  Orlando Magic  विरूद्ध  the Denver  टेंडर्स  ,  on   दिसम्बर   30   ,   1990   .
The NBA  रिकार्ड   लिये   सबसे   करियर  assists is held by  जॉन   स्टॉकटन  with  15,806  .
The mill or mille (  )   (  sometimes mil  in  the UK ,  जब   discussing  property taxes in  the  United States ,  or  previously  in   साइप्रस   और   माल्टा   )  is  a   now-abstract  unit  of   करेंसी  used sometimes in  हिसाब   .
In  the  United States ,  it   is   a  notional  ईकाई  equivalent  to  of a United States dollar ( a  दसवाँ  of a cent ) .
In  the  United  किंगडम  it was  प्रस्तावित   दौरान  the  दशकों  of discussion on  the   decimalization   of  the pound as a division of  the  pound  स्टर्लिंग   .
Several other currencies used the mill , such as the  maltese  lira  .
The term  आता  from  the   लैटिन  ``  millesimum  '' , meaning  ``  thousandth  भाग   ''  .
The Greco-Persian Wars (  भी   प्रायः   पुकारा   the   पारसी   युद्धों   )   यहूद   a   श्रेणी   of  conflicts between the Achaemenid Empire  of  Persia  और   city-states  of the  हैलेनिक  world  कि   प्रारंभ   in  499 BC and lasted until 449  bc   .
The collision between the  fractious  political world of the  यूनानियों   और  the  विशाल   साम्राज्य   of  the  फारसियों  began  जब  Cyrus the Great conquered Ionia  in  547 BC  .
Struggling  to  rule the  independent-minded  cities  of   ionia   ,  the Persians  नियुक्त   उत्पीड़क  to rule  प्रत्येक  of them  .
इस  would prove to  be  the source of much  ट्रबल   लिये  the Greeks  और   फारसियों  alike .
In 499 BC ,  the   तब   tyrant   of   miletus  , Aristagoras ,  embarked  on an  expedition  to  जीतें   the   द्वीप  of  naxos  , with Persian support  ;   however   ,  the expedition  थी  a debacle  और  ,  pre-empting  his  dismissal   ,  Aristagoras incited all of  हैलेनिक   एशिया  Minor into  विद्रोह  against  the   फारसियों   .
This  थी   the  beginning  of  the Ionian Revolt  ,   जिससे   होता  last  जबतक  493 BC , progressively  आरेखण  more  regions   of   एशिया  Minor  into   the  conflict  .
Aristagoras secured military support from  एथेंस   और   eretria  , and in 498  bc  these forces  helped  to capture  और  burn the Persian regional capital  of  Sardis  .
the  Persian  किंग   दारा  the  ग्रेट  vowed  to  have revenge on  एथेंस  and  eretria  for  इस   अधिनियम  .
The revolt  जारी  , with the  दो  sides  effectively   stalemated  throughout 497–495 BC .
In 494 BC , the Persians regrouped , and  attacked   the   epicentre  of  the  revolt in Miletus  .
At the Battle of Lade ,  the  Ionians suffered a  निर्णायक   शिकस्त  , and  the   विद्रोह  collapsed  ,   साथ  the final members being  stamped  out the following  साल  .
Seeking to secure his empire  इससे   further  revolts and from the interference  of  the  मेनलैंड  Greeks , Darius embarked on a  योजना  to conquer  यूनानियों  and  to   सजा  Athens and  eretria   लिये  burning Sardis .
the  first  पारसी  invasion  of   यूनानियों  began in 492 BC , with the  पारसी  general Mardonius  conquering  Thrace and Macedon  पहले  several  mishaps   मजबूर   an  early end to the campaign .
in  490  bc  a second force was sent to Greece  ,  this time  आरपार  the Aegean  समुद्र  , under  the   कमांड  of  datis   और   artaphernes   .
इस   expedition   subjugated  the Cyclades , before besieging , capturing  और  razing Eretria .
however  ,  जबकि   en  route  to  attack Athens ,  the  Persian  फ़ोर्स  was decisively defeated  by  the  athenians  at  the  Battle of  मैराथन   ,   समाप्ति  Persian efforts for the  समय   होने   .
Darius then  began  to plan to complete the  conquest  of  यूनानियों   ,  but  died  in  486  BC and responsibility  लिये   the   conquest  passed  to   उसके  son  xerxes   i   .
In  480   bc  , Xerxes personally  led  the  दूसरी  Persian  आक्रमण  of Greece with one of the largest ancient  सेना  ever assembled  .
Victory  over  the 'Allied  '   यूनानी  states ( led by Sparta and  एथेंस   )  at the Battle of Thermopylae allowed the Persians  to  torch  एथेंस  and overrun most of  यूनानियों   .
however  , while  seeking  to destroy  the  combined  यूनानी   बेड़े  , the  फारसियों  suffered  a   कठोर  defeat  at  the  बैटल  of Salamis .
The following year ,  the  confederated Greeks went  on  the  अप्रिय  , defeating the  पारसी   फौज   at   the  Battle of Plataea  ,   और   समाप्ति  the invasion  of  Greece .
The  अलाइड   यूनानियों  followed up their success by  destroying   the   बाकी  of the  पारसी  fleet at  the  Battle of Mycale , before expelling  पारसी   garrisons  from Sestos  (  479  bc   )   और   byzantium   (  478  bc   )   .
the  actions of  the  general  pausanias  at  the   घेरा   of  Byzantium  alienated  many  of   the   यूनानी  states from the Spartans ,  और   the  anti-Persian alliance  थी  therefore reconstituted  around  Athenian  नेतृत्व  ,  as  the  so-called  Delian League  .
The Delian League continued to campaign against Persia for the next  तीन  decades  ,   शुरूआत  with the  expulsion  of  the  remaining  पारसी   garrisons  from Europe .
At  the   बैटल   of   the   eurymedon   in   466   bc  ,  the  League  जीती  a double  विजय  that  आखिरकार  secured freedom  लिये   the  cities  of  Ionia .
However  ,   the  League  's  involvement  in   an   मिश्र  revolt (  इससे  460–454 BC ) resulted in  a   विनाशकारी   शिकस्त   ,   और  further campaigning  थी  suspended .
a  fleet  थी   भेजा   to   साइप्रस  in  451   bc  , but achieved little  ,  and when it withdrew  the  Greco-Persian  युद्धों  drew to  a  quiet end .
कुछ  historical sources  सुझाएँ   the  end  of  hostilities was marked by a peace treaty  between   एथेंस  and  फारस  ,  the  so-called  सलाम   of  Callias  .
hooverville  near Portland , Oregon
a   ``   hooverville  '' is the popular  नाम  for shanty towns  निर्मित   by   बेघर   लोगों  during the  ग्रेट  Depression  .
वे   यहूद   नामित   बाद  Herbert  हूवर   ,   जो   थी   अध्यक्ष   of   the  United States during  the   onset   of   the  Depression and widely  blamed   लिये   it  .
The term  थी  coined by  चार्ल्स   माइकेल्सन   ,  publicity  मुख्य  of the Democratic National  कमेटी  .
मैथ्यू  Michael Hasselbeck ( born  सितंबर  25 , 1975 ) is  an   अमरीकी   फ़ुटबॉल  quarterback for  the   इंडियानापोलिस  Colts of  the  National  फ़ुटबॉल   लीग  ( NFL )  .
he   थी  drafted  in   the   छठे  round  of  the 1998 NFL Draft by the Green  खाड़ी   पैकर्स   .
बाद   a   ऋतु  on the  अभ्यास  squad and two  सीज़न  backing up Brett  favre  , he  थी  traded to  the   सिएटल  Seahawks  in   2001   .
hasselbeck  gained the  starting  role in 2003  ,   और  led  सिएटल   to  six playoff appearances and a Super Bowl  रूप   ;  he  थी   चयनित  to three Pro Bowls and an All-Pro  चयन  .
Following  टेन  seasons  साथ  the  सीहॉक्स   ,   hasselbeck  joined the  टेनेसी   टाइटन्स  in 2011 .
hasselbeck  then signed a contract  साथ  the Indianapolis  कोल्टस  in 2013  कम   than   24  hours after being  released   by  the Tennessee  टाइटन्स   .
ICT is inevitably  सम्बन्धित   to   the   कंप्यूटर  network .
Information and Communications  प्रौद्योगिकी  or  (  ICT ) , is  प्रायः  used as  an   विस्तारित  synonym for information technology (  it  ) ,  लकिन  is a more specific term that stresses the role  of  unified communications  और  the integration of telecommunications  (  telephone lines and  बेतार   सिग्नल  ) , computers as  खूब  as necessary enterprise software ,  middleware   ,  storage ,  और  audio-visual  प्रणालियों  , which enable users  to   अभिगम  ,  स्टोर  , transmit , and manipulate  सूचना  .
The  phrase   आईसीटी   था   महरूम  used  by  academic researchers since  the   1980s   ,  but  it   became   लोकप्रिय   बाद   it   थी   प्रयुक्त  in  a  report to the UK  सरकारी  by Dennis Stevenson  in   1997   और  in the revised  नेशनल  Curriculum for  इंग्लैण्ड   ,  Wales and Northern  आयरलैंड  in  2000  .
The term  आईसीटी  is  अभी  also  प्रयुक्त  to  refer  to  the  convergence of audio-visual and telephone  संजाल   साथ  computer  संजाल   through  a  सिंगल   cabling  or  कड़ी  system  .
There  हैं  large  आर्थिक  incentives (  विशाल  cost savings due to  विलोपन  of the telephone network )  to  merge  the  audio-visual  ,   भवन  management and  टेलीफोन  network  साथ   the   कंप्यूटर  network system using a single unified system  of  cabling  ,  signal distribution and  प्रबन्धन  .
the  term Infocommunications is  प्रयुक्त   in   कुछ   मामले  as a shorter form of information and communication ( s  )  technology .
In  फैक्ट   infocommunications   is   the   विस्तार   of   दूरसंचार  with information  प्रसंस्करण   और  content handling  कृत्यों   on   a  common digital technology base  .
लिये  a comparison of these  और   अन्य  terms , see  .
लिये  ICT Development Index  around  the world  ,  see .
इस  is  a   सूची   of   वर्ण   इससे   जार्ज  Lopez .
a  schematic  प्रस्तुतीकरण   of  the  प्लम   खीर   मॉडल  of the  अणु  ;  in  Thomson 's  गणितीय   मॉडल  the  ``  corpuscles  ''   (  or modern  electrons  )  यहूद   arranged  non-randomly , in rotating rings
the   वर्तमान   मॉडल  of  the   sub-atomic  structure involves  a   घना  nucleus surrounded by a  probabilistic  ``  बादल   ''  of  electrons
The plum pudding model of the  अणु   by   J.   J.  Thomson  ,   जो  discovered  the  electron  in  1897  ,   थी  proposed in  1904  before the discovery of the atomic  केंद्रक  in  अनुक्रम  to add the electron to the atomic model .
in   इस  model , the atom is  रचित   of   electrons   (  which Thomson  स्टिल   पुकारा   ``  corpuscles ''  ,   हालांकि   G.  J.  stoney   था  proposed that  अणु  of  विद्युत   be  called electrons  in  1894 ) surrounded by a  सूप   of  positive charge  to   संतुलन   the  electrons  '   ऋणात्मक   आरोप   ,  like negatively  चार्ज   ``  plums `` surrounded  by  positively charged  ``   खीर  `` .
The electrons ( as we  जान   उन्हें   आज  ) were thought to be positioned throughout the atom  ,  but with  अनेक   structures   संभावित  for  positioning   अनेक  electrons  ,  particularly rotating  बजती  of electrons ( see  नीचे   )  .
Instead  of  a  सूप   ,  the atom was  भी   sometimes  said to have  था   a  `` cloud '' of positive charge  .
साथ  this  मॉडल  , Thomson abandoned his earlier  ``  nebular atom ''  परिकल्पना   in  which the  अणु  was  रचित  of  immaterial   vortices   .
अभी   ,  at least part of the  अणु   थी   to   be  composed of  thomson   's  particulate negative  corpuscles   ,  although the rest of the positively charged part of the  अणु   remained  somewhat  nebulous   और   ill-defined  .
the  1904  thomson   मॉडल  was disproved by the  1909  gold  foil   प्रयोग  of Hans  geiger  and  अर्नेस्ट   मार्सडेन   .
This was interpreted  by  Ernest  रदरफोर्ड   in  1911
to  imply   a  very  छोटी  nucleus of the  अणु   containing  a  बहुत  high  धनात्मक   चार्ज  ( in the case  of   सुनहरा  ,  पर्याप्त   to  balance about 100  electrons  )  ,   यूँ   अग्रणी  to the Rutherford  मॉडल   of  the atom .
Although gold has  an   परमाणु  number of 79 ,  तत्काल  after  रदरफोर्ड  's  पेपर  appeared  in  1911  antonius  Van den  broek  made  the   सहज  suggestion that atomic number is nuclear  चार्ज  .
The matter  जरूरी  experiment to decide .
Henry Moseley  's   कार्य   दिखाया   experimentally  in 1913  (  see Moseley  's  law  )  that the effective  नाभिकीय  charge was very close to  the  atomic number (  moseley   मिला  only one  ईकाई   अंतर  )  ,  and Moseley referenced only the  papers  of Van den  broek  and  रदरफोर्ड   .
This work culminated in the solar-system-like (  लकिन  quantum-limited ) Bohr model of  the  atom  in   the  same year ,  in  which  a  nucleus  containing  an  परमाणु  number  of  positive charge is surrounded by an  बराबर  number of  electrons  in orbital shells  .
bohr   था  also  प्रेरित  Moseley  's  work  .
thomson  's model was compared ( though  नहीं   by   thomson  ) to  a  British dessert called  प्लम   खीर  ,  hence  the name  .
Thomson 's paper was published in the  कूच  1904 edition of the Philosophical  पत्रिका   ,   the  leading  अंग्रेजों  science  जर्नल  of  the  day .
In  thomson  's  दृश्य  :  ...  the atoms  of   the  elements consist  of   a   क्रमांक  of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in  a  sphere of uniform positive electrification ,  ...
In  इस   मॉडल   ,  the electrons  यहूद   फ़्री  to  घूर्णन   भीतर  the  blob   or   बादल   of  positive substance  .
ये  orbits  यहूद  stabilized in the model  by   the  fact that when an electron moved  दूर   इससे  the center  of  the positive  बादल  , it felt a  larger  net positive inward force  ,  because there  थी  more material  of   विपरीत  charge , inside  इसके  orbit  (  see Gauss 's law ) .
In Thomson  's  model  ,  electrons  यहूद   फ़्री  to  घूर्णन  in rings  जिससे  were further stabilized by interactions between the  electrons  ,  और  spectra were to be  accounted  for  by  energy  मतभेद   of   अलग   रिंग  orbits  .
Thomson attempted  to   मेक   उसके  model  खाता  for some of  the   प्रमुख  spectral lines known for some elements  ,  but was  नहीं   notably  successful at  इस   .
Still  ,  Thomson  's  model  (   साथ  with a  समान  Saturnian ring model for atomic  electrons   ,  also  put  forward  in   1904   by  Nagaoka after  जेम्स   क्लर्क  Maxwell 's model of  शनि   's   बजती  )  ,  were  पहले  harbingers  of  the later and more  कामयाब  solar-system-like  bohr  model of the  अणु  .
Typical  स्ट्रिप  of  बेकन  .
Bacon is  a  cured meat  prepared   इससे  a  सुअर   .
It is first cured  using  large  quantities  of salt  ,  either  in  a brine or  in  a dry  पैकिंग   ;  the result is  भैस  bacon (  भी  known  as  green  बेकन   )  .
Fresh bacon  may  then  be   further  dried  लिये  weeks or months in cold air  ,   or   it  may be  boiled   or  smoked .
Fresh and  सूखी  bacon is typically cooked before  खाने  .
boiled  bacon  is   तैयार  to  खा  , as is  कुछ   स्मोक्ड   बेकन  ,  लकिन   may   be  cooked further before  खाने  .
बेकन  is prepared from  अनेक   अलग   कटौती  of  मांस  .
It is usually made from side  और   वापस   कटौती   of  pork , except  in   the  United States , where  it  is  लगभग  always  prepared  from  पोर्क   पेट  (  typically  referred to as  ``  streaky  ''  , ``  वसीय  ''  ,  or `` American style  ''  outside  of   the   us   और  Canada ) .
The  पक्ष   काटें  has more  मांस  and less fat than the belly .
बेकन  may be  prepared  from either  of   दो  distinct back cuts : fatback  ,  which is almost pure  मोटे  , and  पोर्क  loin  ,   जिससे   is   बहुत  lean .
bacon-cured  pork loin is known  as  back  बेकन   .
Uncooked pork belly bacon  स्ट्रिप्स  .
Bacon may be eaten smoked  ,   boiled   ,   fried   ,  baked ,  or   ग्रील्ड  ,  or  used as a  नाबालिग  ingredient to flavor dishes .
Bacon is  भी   प्रयुक्त  for barding and  larding  roasts , especially  खेल  , e.g .  venison  , pheasant .
the   शब्द  is derived from  the  Old High  जर्मनी   bacho  , meaning  ``  buttock '' ,  ``   हैम   ''   or   ``  side of bacon  ''  ,  और   cognate  with the Old French  बेकन  .
In continental Europe ,  इस   भाग   of   the   सुअर   is   प्रायः  not  स्मोक्ड  like  बेकन   is   in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  ; it  is  used primarily  in  cubes ( lardons  )  as a cooking  संघटक  ,  valued   दोनो   as  a  सोर्स  of fat  और  for  इसके   स्वाद  .
In Italy ,  इस  is  पुकारा   pancetta  and is  प्रायः   पकाया  in small cubes or  परोसा  uncooked and  thinly  sliced as part  of  an antipasto  .
Meat from other animals , such as beef ,  मेमने  ,  मुर्गा  ,  बकरी   ,   or   तुर्कों  ,  may   भी   be  cut  ,  cured , or  वरना   prepared  to  resemble  bacon , and  may  even be referred to as `` bacon ''  .
Such  उपयोग  is common in areas with significant Jewish and Muslim populations .
the  USDA defines  बेकन   as  `` the cured  पेट   of   a  swine  carcass   ''   ;  other  कटौती  and  विशेषताएँ  must be  separately  qualified ( e.g.  ,  `` smoked  पोर्क   loin   बेकन  '' ) .
For safety , bacon must  be   treated  to prevent trichinosis , caused by  trichinella  , a parasitic  roundworm  which  can   be  destroyed  by  heating  ,  freezing ,  drying  ,  or  smoking .
Bacon is  विशिष्ट  from salt  पोर्क  and ham by differences in the brine ( or  शुष्क  packing  )  .
बेकन  brine has added  curing   संघटक   ,   सबसे  notably sodium  नाइट्राइट   ,   और  occasionally sodium  नाइट्रेट  or potassium nitrate  (  saltpeter ) ;  सोडियम   ascorbate  or erythorbate are added to accelerate curing and stabilize  रंग   .
Flavorings such as brown sugar or maple are  प्रयुक्त  for  कुछ  products  .
If used , sodium polyphosphates are added to improve sliceability  और  reduce  spattering  when  the   बेकन   is  pan fried .
Today , a brine for ham  ,  but  नहीं   बेकन   ,   शामिल   a   विशाल   राशि  of sugar  .
Historically  ,  `` ham  ''  and `` bacon  ''   referred  to  अलग   कटौती   of   मांस  that were brined  or   packed  identically , often together in  the  same  बैरल   .
the  Employee Retirement Income Security  अधिनियम  of  1974  ( ERISA )  (   ,   संहिताबद्ध  in part  at  )  is  a federal law  जिससे  establishes minimum standards for  पेंशन   योजनाएँ  in private industry  और  provides for extensive  नियम  on the  संघीय  income tax effects of  ट्रांजेक्शन  associated with  कर्मचारी  benefit  योजनाएँ   .
erisa   थी  enacted to  protect   the   रूचि  of  कर्मचारी   लाभ   योजना  participants and  उनके   beneficiaries  by:
requiring   the   प्रकटीकरण   of  financial and other information  concerning   the  plan to  beneficiaries   ;
Establishing  मानकों  of conduct for  योजना  fiduciaries ;
Providing  लिये  appropriate remedies and  अभिगम   to  the  संघीय   न्यायालयों  .
ERISA is  sometimes  used to refer  to  the  पूरा  body of  कानून   regulating   कर्मचारी  benefit  योजनाएँ  , which are found  मुख्यतः   in   the   आतंरिक   आय  Code and  erisa  itself .
Responsibility  लिये  the interpretation  और  enforcement  of   erisa  is divided among the Department of  मजदूर   ,   the   विभाग   of  the  राजकोष   (  particularly the Internal  आय   सेवा   )  ,  और  the Pension  लाभ  Guaranty  निगम   .
Illegal  आव्रजन  to  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  is the act  of  foreign  नागरिकों   प्रवेश  the  संयुक्त  States  ,  without government permission and in violation  of  United  राज्य  nationality law , or  रहकर  beyond the  termination  date of a  वीज़ा  ,  भी   in  violation of the  विधि   .
A warning  चिह्न  at  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   boundary   between  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  and Canada in  पाइंट   रॉबर्ट्स  ,  वॉशिंगटन   .
A  much   अलग  approach at the  u.s.-mexico  border near El  पासो  , Texas
The undocumented immigrant population of  the  United  राज्य  in 2008  थी   अनुमानित   by   the   बीच   लिये  Immigration Studies to  be  about  11  million  लोगों  ,  bas  from  12.5  million  लोगों  in 2007 .
अन्य  estimates range from  7   to   20  million .
According  to  a 2005  pew  Hispanic Center report , 56 %  of   undocumented  immigrants were from Mexico ; 22 %  यहूद  from  अन्य  Latin American countries ; 13  %  were from Asia  ;  6 %  यहूद   इससे  Europe  और  Canada  ;   और   3  %  यहूद  from  अफ़्रीकी   और   the   बाकी   of  the world  .
Alvin Independent School District  is  a school district based in Alvin  ,  Texas (  यूएसए   )   .
एल्विन  ISD is  a  large suburban school district  दक्षिण  of  ह्यूस्टन  in  the  communities of Alvin ,  manvel  , Pearland  ,   hillcrest  , Rosharon , Iowa Colony ,  लिवरपूल  , and Amsterdam .
aisd   serves   pearland   नगर  's rapidly growing  पश्चिमी  portion of the city including the new  विशाल  master-planned communities  of   छाया   क्रीक   ranch   ,  South Fork , and Southern Trails  .
Alvin ISD covers of  जमीन  .
In human anatomy , the  ulnar   तंत्रिका  is a  तंत्रिका   जिससे  runs near the ulna  अस्थि   .
The  ulnar   collateral  ligament of elbow  संयुक्त  is in relation with  the   ulnar  nerve  .
The  तंत्रिका   is  the  largest  unprotected  तंत्रिका  in  the   इंसान   देह   (  meaning unprotected by muscle or  अस्थि   )  ,  so   चोट   is   आम  .
This  तंत्रिका  is  सीधे  connected to the little  उंगली  , and  the   सटा  half of the  रिंग  finger  ,  supplying the palmar  पक्ष   of  these fingers , including both front  और   वापस   of   the  tips , perhaps  as  far back as  the  fingernail beds .
एक  method of  injuring   the   तंत्रिका   is   to  strike the medial epicondyle  of  the  humerus  from posteriorly , or inferiorly with the  कोहनी   flexed  .
The  ulnar  nerve is  फंस  between the  अस्थि  and the overlying skin  at   इस   पाइंट  .
This is commonly referred to as bumping one 's ``  मजेदार  bone  ''   .
इस   नाम  is thought  to   be  a pun  ,   आधारित  on  the   ध्वनि  resemblance between the name of the bone  of  the  अपर   भुजा  , the  ``  humerus `` and the  शब्द   ``  humorous `` .
alternatively   ,   according   to   the  Oxford English  शब्दकोष  it may refer to `` the peculiar sensation  अनुभवी  when it  is  struck '' .
Hogwarts  स्कूल  of Witchcraft and Wizardry ,  shortened  Hogwarts ,  is  a fictional British  स्कूल  of magic for students aged  ग्यारह  to eighteen ,  और   is  the  प्राथमिक   सेटिंग  for  the  first  छह   किताबे  in J.K. Rowling  's  Harry Potter series  .
रोलिंग   रै  suggested that she may have inadvertently taken the  नाम   इससे  the  hogwort  plant  (   croton   capitatus  ) ,  जिससे  she  था  seen  at   kew  Gardens  कुछ  time before writing  the   श्रेणी   ,   हालांकि   the  names `` The Hogwarts ''  और  `` Hoggwart  ''  appear  in   the  1954  निगेल  Molesworth book How To Be Topp  by  Geoffrey  willans  .
Hogwarts school  थी  voted as the  36th  best  स्कॉटिश   शैक्षणिक  establishment in a 2008  ऑनलाइन   रैंकिंग   ,   outranking   एडिनबर्ग   's   loretto  School .
According to  a   निदेशक  of the Independent Schools  संजाल  Rankings  ,  it  थी   added   to  the  स्कूलों   लिस्टिंग   ``  for  मजा  ''  और  was then voted on  .
the  U.S.  subprime   बंधक   संकट   थी   a   नियत   of  events  और  conditions that led to a financial crisis  और   subsequent  recession  कि   began  in 2008  .
It was characterized by a rise  in   subprime   बंधक   delinquencies  and foreclosures , and the  resulting   मनाही  of securities  समर्थित  by said mortgages .
अनेक   प्रमुख  financial  संस्थानों  collapsed  in  September  2008  , with significant  disruption   in   the   प्रवाह   of  credit to businesses and  उपभोक्ता   और  the onset  of  a severe global recession .
वहीँ  were many causes  of  the crisis ,  साथ  commentators assigning  अलग   स्तर   of  blame  to  financial institutions , regulators  ,  credit  एजेंसियों  , government  आवास   नीतियों   ,   और  consumers ,  among  others .
a   proximate  cause  थी  the rise in  subprime   lending  .
The  प्रतिशत  of  lower-quality  subprime  mortgages   originated  during a given year  रोज़  from  the   ऐतिहासिक  8 %  or  lower range to  लगभग  20  %   इससे   2004  to 2006 ,  साथ  much higher ratios in some parts of the U.S  .
A  ऊँची  percentage  of  these subprime mortgages , over  90  % in 2006  लिये   उदाहरण  ,  यहूद   adjustable-rate   mortgages  .
These two changes were  भाग  of a broader trend of lowered  lending  standards and  higher-risk   बंधक  products  .
further  ,  u.S.   households   था  become  increasingly  indebted ,  साथ   the  ratio of debt to disposable personal income rising  इससे  77 %  in   1990  to 127 %  at   the   समाप्त  of 2007  ,   much  of this  बढ़ाएँ  mortgage-related .
When U.S. home prices  अस्वीकृत   steeply   बाद  peaking  in   mid-2006   ,  borrowers ' ability  to  refinance their  लोन   became  more difficult .
as  adjustable-rate mortgages  began  to reset at  उच्चतर  interest rates (  causing   उच्चतर  monthly  भुगतान   )   ,  mortgage delinquencies  soared   .
Securities backed with mortgages  ,  including  subprime  mortgages ,  widely  held by financial firms  globally  ,  खोया  most of their value .
Global investors  भी   drastically   घटाया  purchases of mortgage-backed debt  और  other securities as part  of  a decline in  the  capacity and willingness  of   the   निजी  financial system to support  lending  .
चिंताएं   परिचय  the soundness  of  U.S. credit and financial markets  led   to  tightening credit  around  the world  और  slowing  आर्थिक  growth in  the   u.S.  and  यूरोपीय  .
the   संकट  had severe ,  long-lasting   consequences  for the  u.S.   और  European economies  .
The U.S.  डाला   a   गहन  recession  ,  with nearly 9 million jobs lost during  2008  and 2009 , roughly  6  % of  the  workforce .
U.S.  आवास  prices fell  nearly   30  % on average and the  u.S.   भण्डार   मार्केट  fell  लगभग  50  %   by  early 2009 .
As of early 2013 ,  the   u.S.   भण्डार  market  था  recovered  to  its pre-crisis  शिखर  but  आवास  prices  remained  near  उनके  low  पाइंट   और  unemployment  remained  elevated .
Economic growth  remained  below pre-crisis levels  .
यूरोपीय   भी   जारी   to   संघर्ष   साथ   इसके  own  आर्थिक  crisis .
Carl Jung  in  1910  .
मायर्स  and Briggs extrapolated  उनके  MBTI  सिद्धान्त  from Jung  's   कृतियाँ  in his book Psychological Types .
the   myers-briggs  Type Indicator  (  MBTI )  मूल्यांकन  is a  psychometric  questionnaire  designed   to  measure  मनोवैज्ञानिक  preferences  in  how  लोगों  perceive  the  world and  मेक   निर्णय  .
ये   वरीयताओं  were extrapolated from  the   typological  theories proposed  by   कार्ल  Gustav Jung and  पहला   प्रकाशित  in his 1921  किताब   मनोवैज्ञानिक  Types ( English  संस्करण   ,  1923 )  .
जंग  theorized  कि  there  हैं  four principal  मनोवैज्ञानिक  functions by which we  अनुभव   the   संसार  :  सनसनी  ,  अंतर्ज्ञान  , feeling ,  और   सोच   .
One of these four  कृत्यों  is  प्रबल  most  of  the  समय   .
the   असली  developers  of   the   व्यक्तित्व   inventory  were Katharine Cook Briggs and her daughter  ,  Isabel  briggs  Myers ; these two , having studied  extensively  the work of Jung  ,   turned  their  ब्याज  of human behavior  into  a  भक्ति   of  turning the theory  of   मनोवैज्ञानिक   प्रकार  to practical use .
वे  began  बनाना  the indicator during  संसार  War  ii  , believing that a knowledge of  व्यक्तित्व  preferences would  सहायता   महिलाओं   जो  were entering the industrial workforce for the first  समय  to identify the sort of  war-time  jobs that would  be  `` most comfortable  और  effective '' .
The  आरंभिक  questionnaire  grew  into the  myers-briggs   प्रकार   indicator   ,  which was  पहला   प्रकाशित   in   1962  .
the   mbti   focuses  on normal populations and emphasizes the value of  naturally  occurring differences .
Robert  kaplan  and Dennis Saccuzzo  मानना   ``   the  underlying  assumption   of  the MBTI is that we  सब   have  specific  वरीयताओं   in  the way  we  construe  हमारी  experiences  ,   और   ये  preferences  underlie  our interests  ,  needs ,  मान   ,  and motivation  ''  ( p.  499  ) .
`` Judas ''  is  a  सोंग   by  American recording  कलाकार   महिला  Gaga , from  उसके  second  स्टुडियो  album Born This Way ( 2011 )  .
It was released by Interscope  रिकॉर्ड  on April 15 ,  2011  ,  चार  days  ahead   of  its scheduled release  .
लिखा  and  उत्पादित   by  Lady Gaga and RedOne ,  ``  Judas '' is  a  dance  और  electro  हाउस   सोंग  about a woman in love with  a   man  who betrayed  उसके   .
It  embodies   the  incidents  कि  have  haunted  Gaga  in  the  पास्ट   ,  and its core  अर्थ   refers   to  the negative  भाग  of her life that  वो  ca  n't  escape  .
गागा  has further  समझाया  that the  सोंग  was also  परिचय  honoring one 's  भीतरी   अंधेरा  in  अनुक्रम   to  bring oneself into  the  light  .
The artwork  लिये   the   सिंगल  was designed by Gaga in Microsoft  शब्द  .
In spite of a  polarizing   प्रभाव   on   अनेक  religious  समूह   ,  the  सोंग   थी  generally  खूब   प्राप्त  by  आलोचकों   ,  who likened the  सोंग  to ``  ख़राब  Romance `` with some noting it should  have  been  the   एल्बम  's lead  सिंगल   .
the   सोंग   रै  a similar sound to Gaga 's  पिछला  RedOne-produced tracks , including  ``   पोकर  Face  ``  , `` LoveGame `` , ``  ख़राब  Romance  ''   ,   और  `` Alejandro  ``  .
it   contains  three  पृथक   hooks   और   a  house  -influenced  break down  .
Gaga  समझाया  that  the   लाइनों  spoken during  the   विश्लेषण   बात  about  उसके  as beyond redemption  ,  regarding  the   परंपरागत  views of  कया  a  स्त्री   चाहिए  be .
`` Judas ''  initially  had  a  strong sales  खोलने  , but  थी   कम  successful  commercially   in   तुलना   to   गागा  's previous  singles  .
The  सोंग   पहुँचे   the  top  टेन   of  the  चार्ट  in most major  म्यूज़िक   बाज़ार  , and also reached  the  top of the charts in South Korea .
A music video for  the   सोंग  was  फिल्माया  in  अप्रैल  2011  ,  co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus .
It has a Biblical storyline  जहाँ   reedus  played  यहूदा   इस्कैरियट  and Gaga played  मरियम  Magdalene .
the  video portrays them as modern  दिन   प्रचारकों   going   to  Jerusalem  .
it   शामिल  the Biblical story  of   यहूदा  betraying  यीशु  ,  और   ended  with Gaga as Magdalene  getting  stoned  to   मौत   .
Before its release  ,  the  कैथोलिक  League condemned Gaga for the  कथित   उपयोग  of religious imagery and  उसके   भूमिका   in   the  video .
However , critics generally praised  the  video  ,   नहीं  finding any offensive content .
The  वीडियो   थी   मनोनीत  for  दो  awards at  the  2011 MTV  वीडियो   म्यूज़िक  Awards  .
Gaga  रै  performed `` Judas '' on  a  number  of  television shows  ,  including The Graham  नॉर्टन  Show ,  शनिवार   रात्रि  Live , Good  morning   americas  ``  गर्मियाँ   कॉन्सर्ट   श्रेणी  '' , the French X  फ़ैक्टर   as   खूब   as   on  The  एलेन   degeneres   दिखाएँ   .
Marvin Gaye ( April 2  ,  1939April 1 , 1984  )  , born Marvin Pentz Gay  ,  Jr.  ,   थी  an American singer-songwriter and musician  .
gaye   helped   to   आकार  the  ध्वनि  of  motown  Records in the  1960s   साथ   a  string of hits including  ``  How  मीठी   it  Is (  to  Be  loved  By You  )   ``   और  ``  i  Heard It Through the  grapevine  ``  और   duet   रिकार्डिंग   साथ  Mary Wells and Tammi  terrell  ,  बाद  earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and  ``   प्रिंस  of Soul '' .
दौरान   the  1970s , Gaye  अंकित  the concept albums  कया   's  Going On and  let   's  Get  it  On  और   became  among  the   पहला  artists in Motown  to  break away from  the   बागडोर   of  its  उत्पादन   कम्पनी  .
Gaye 's later recordings influenced several R & B subgenres  ऐसे  as  शांत  storm and neo-soul  .
Following a  काल  in Europe  अंतर्गत   a  tax exile  in   the  early  1980s  ,  gaye   released   the  1982 Grammy  award-winning   hit  ``  यौन   healing  `` and the  मध्यरात्रि  Love album .
Since his death in  1984   ,  Gaye has  महरूम   मरणोपरांत  honored  by  many institutions  ,  including the  ग्रैमी   आजीवन   उपलब्धि  Award and the Rock and  फेंकें  Hall  of   कीर्ति  .
the  Academy Award for Best Picture  is  one of the  अकादमी  Awards of  मेरिट   प्रस्तुत  annually by  the   अकादमी  of  गति  Picture  कला   और   sciences   (   ampas   )   to   निर्माता  working in  the   गति   चित्र  industry  और  is  the  only category in which every member  is  eligible  to  nominate  लिये   .
बेहतरीन   चित्र  is considered the  सबसे  important  of   the   अकादमी  Awards , as  it   represents  all  the   directing  , acting , music composing , writing ,  संपादन  and other efforts  put  forth into a  फिल्मी  .
Consequently  ,  Best Picture is  the   फाइनल  award and  the  conclusion of  the  annual Academy  पुरस्कार  ceremony .
the  Grand Staircase columns  at  the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles , where  the  Academy Awards ceremonies have been  आयोजित   चूंकि  2002 , showcase every film that has  जीती  the Best  चित्र   शीर्षक  since the award 's inception  85  years ago .
भारी  Rain is an  इंटरैक्टिव   नाटक  action-adventure video game  निर्मित  by  फ्रेंच  developer  quantic  Dream  exclusively  for  the  PlayStation 3 .
the   खेल  is written and  निर्देशित  by Quantic Dream  's  founder and CEO David  पिंजरा  .
Heavy Rains  स्टोरी   is  a dramatic  थ्रिलर   modelled  after film  noir   ,  featuring  चार   protagonists  involved with the mystery of the  origami   कातिल   ,  a  सीरियल  killer who uses extended periods of rainfall  to   डुबो  his  पीड़ितों  .
Ethan  मंगल   is  trying  to   सहेजें  his son  इससे   होने  the next victim  ,  while  investigative  journalist Madison Paige  ,   एफबीआई  profiler Norman  jayden   ,   और   निजी  detective Scott Shelby  हैं   प्रत्येक   trying   to   track  down  clues  to  the  Origami  कातिल  's  पहचान   .
The  खिलाड़ी  interacts with the game  by  performing actions  highlighted  on  स्क्रीन  related  to  motions  on   the  controller  ,   और  in some cases , performing  a   श्रेणी  of  जल्दी   समय  events during fast-paced action  sequences  .
the  player 's decisions  और  actions during  the   खेल   होगा   affect   the  narrative .
The  प्रमुख   वर्ण   can  be killed ,  और  certain  क्रियाएँ   may   सीसे   to   अलग  scenes and endings .
a   playable  demo  थी  released on 11 February  2010  .
the   डेमो   थी  released prior  to  this  तिथि  for  लोगों  who took part in a  चार  Day  चुनौती  on  5   फ़रवरी   2010   .
a  patch  to  allow  उपयोग  of the PlayStation Move controller to play  the   खेल  was released in September 2010  .
Heavy Rain  थी  critically  acclaimed   और  has  बेची   over  two  लाख   नक़ल  .
it  won  2010   's  Game of the Year from CNN and Gaming Union , and Best PS3 Game of  2010  by GameSpy and  ign  .
A  परिवर्धित  version of  the   खेल  was released titled Heavy Rain Edition  modifiée   exclusively  in France ,  aimed  towards  a   younger   दर्शक   .
In  2010  , the  खेल   थी   शामिल  in  the   किताब   1001  Video  खेल  You  जरूर   खेल  Before  तुम   die  .
Total superannuation  उद्योग  liabilities : members funds and reserves  (  A $ millions ) since 1988 .
Annual total superannuation industry  एसेट  growth 1996-2005 .
superannuation   in  Australia refers to the  इंतजाम  which people make in Australia to  have   निधि  available  लिये   उन्हें   in  retirement  .
In Australia ,  superannuation  arrangements  हैं  government-supported and  प्रोत्साहित   ,   और  minimum provisions are  अनिवार्य   लिये  employees  .
लिये  example ,  नियोक्ता  are required  to  pay a  proportion  of an employee 's  salaries   और   मजदूरी  ( currently 9 % )  into  a  superannuation  fund  ,  but  लोगों   हैं   प्रोत्साहित  to  put   aside  additional  निधि  into superannuation  .
the   न्यूनतम  obligation required by  नियोक्ता  is set to  बढ़ाएँ   to  12  %   धीरे   stepping   annually  from 2013 to  2020  .
an  individual  can   withdraw   निधि   आउट  of  a  superannuation fund when the person  meets   एक  of  the  conditions of  रिलीज  contained  in   अनुसूची  1  of  the  superannuation   उद्योग   (  Supervision ) Regulations  1994   .
इस   is  a  सूची   of   the  characters from the American comedy-drama  टेलीविज़न  series The Game .
Electoral  कॉलेज   मैप   प्रर्दशित   the  results of the 2012  u.S.  presidential  चुनाव  .
President Barack Obama ( D - IL ) won the  लोकप्रिय  vote in 26 states and  the  District of Columbia  (   denoted  in  ब्लू   )   to  capture 332  चुनावी  votes .
Former Governor Mitt  romney  ( R - MA  )   जीती  the popular vote in 24 states  (   denoted   in   रेड  )  to  capture 206  चुनावी  votes  .
Cartogram  प्रतिनिधित्व   of   the   चुनावी  College  vote  for  the   2012   चुनाव   ,   साथ   प्रत्येक   वर्गाकार  representing one electoral  vote   .
the  United States Electoral College is the  संस्था   कि  officially  elects   the   अध्यक्ष   और  Vice President  of   the  United States every four  सालो   .
the   अध्यक्ष   और   वाइस  President  हैं  not elected directly  by  the  मतदाता   .
Instead  ,  they are elected by  ``   निर्वाचक   ''  who  हैं   चुनी   by   लोकप्रिय  vote  on  a state-by-state  आधार   .
निर्वाचक   हैं  apportioned to each state and the District of Columbia , but not to  territorial  possessions  of  the United  राज्य  , such as  प्यूर्टो   रीको  and Guam  .
the  number of  निर्वाचक  in each  राज्य   is  equal to the number of members  of  Congress  to  which  the   राज्य   is  entitled .
the  Twenty-third Amendment has always resulted  in  the District  of  Columbia  having  three  निर्वाचक   .
वहीँ   हैं  538 electors , based on  वहीँ  being 435  प्रतिनिधि  and 100  सीनेटरों  ,  प्लस   the   तीन  electors from the District of  कोलंबिया  .
Electors are  pledged  to  particular  presidential and vice presidential  उम्मीदवार  ,  हालांकि   unpledged  electors  हैं   संभावित  .
In all  राज्य   ,  except  maine  and  नेब्रास्का   ,  electors  हैं   निर्वाचित  on  a  ``  winner-take-all   ''  basis  .
That is , all electors pledged to  the   अध्यक्षीय  candidate who wins the most votes in a  राज्य  become electors for that state .
Maine and Nebraska use the `` congressional district  विधि  '' ,  selecting   एक  elector within each  congressional  district  by  popular  vote  and selecting  the   बाकी   दो  electors  by  a statewide  लोकप्रिय   vote  .
हालांकि   no  elector is required by federal law to honor a  प्रतिज्ञा  , there  have  only been very few  अवसरों  when an elector voted contrary to  a   प्रतिज्ञा   .
The  बारहवीं  Amendment  specifies  how a President and Vice President are elected and  requires   प्रत्येक   elector   to  cast  एक   vote   लिये  President  और  another vote for Vice President .
आलोचकों   argue  that  the   चुनावी   कॉलेज  is inherently undemocratic and gives swing states  अनुपातहीन   influence  in  electing  the President and  वाइस  President  .
the  Electoral College  देता  a numeric advantage  in   the  election of the president to the  छोटी  states  ,   as  the  न्यूनतम   क्रमांक   of   निर्वाचक   लिये  the small states is three compared to one  लिये  the  चुनाव   of   प्रतिनिधि  .
On the other  हाथ   ,  the  winner-take-all   विधि  of voting  favors  the larger states .
a   क्रमांक  of  संवैधानिक  amendments  have  been  प्रस्तावित  seeking to  alter  the  चुनावी   कॉलेज  or replace it with a  सीधा   लोकप्रिय  vote .
Barack Hussein Obama II  (   ;  born  अगस्त  4 , 1961 )  is   the  44th  और  current  अध्यक्ष   of  the United States ,  the   पहला  African American to hold the  दफ्तर  .
Born in  होनोलूलू  ,  हवाई  ,  ओबामा   is  a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law  स्कूल  , where  he   थी   अध्यक्ष  of the Harvard Law Review .
he  was a  जातियाँ   आयोजक   in   शिकागो  before  कमाई  his  विधि   उपाधि   .
he  worked as a  सिविल   अधिकारों   attorney  in Chicago  और   सिखाया  constitutional  विधि  at  the   विश्वविद्यालयों  of Chicago  विधि  School  इससे  1992 to 2004 .
He served  तीन  terms  representing   the  13th District  in   the  Illinois  सीनेट   इससे   1997   to   2004  ,  कार्यशील   unsuccessfully   लिये   the  United  राज्य  House of Representatives in 2000 .
In  2004  , Obama received  नेशनल   ध्यान   दौरान  his  अभियान   to   represent  Illinois  in  the United States Senate with  उसके  victory  in  the  कूच  Democratic Party primary ,  उसके   keynote  address at  the   लोकतांत्रिक   नेशनल   सम्मेलन  in  जुलाई  , and his election to  the   सीनेट  in November  .
he  began his  अध्यक्षीय  campaign in 2007 , and  in   2008  ,  बाद   a  close primary campaign against Hillary Rodham  क्लिंटन  , he  जीती   sufficient   delegates   in   the  Democratic  पार्टी  primaries to receive the  अध्यक्षीय   नामांकन  .
he   तब   पराजित   रिपब्लिकन   nominee  John  मैक्केन   in  the  सामान्य   चुनाव   ,   और  was  उदघाटन  as president  on  January  20  , 2009 .
नौ   महीने  later  ,  Obama  थी  named the  2009   नोबेल  Peace  पुरस्कार   laureate  .
He  थी  re-elected president in November  2012  , defeating Republican nominee Mitt Romney  ,   और  was  sworn  in for a  दूसरी   पद  on January 20  ,  2013 .
जल्दी  in his  पहला  term in office , Obama signed into law economic stimulus legislation in  जवाब  to  the  Great Recession in  the  form  of   the  American Recovery and  reinvestment  Act of 2009 and the  कर  Relief , Unemployment Insurance  reauthorization  , and  जॉब  Creation Act  of  2010 .
अन्य  major domestic  पहलों   in  his presidency  शामिल  the Patient  सुरक्षा  and  सस्ती  Care Act  ,  often  referred  to as `` Obamacare  ''  ; the  dodd–frank   वॉल  Street Reform  और   उपभोक्ता   सुरक्षा   अधिनियम   ;  the  do  n't Ask  ,   do   n't  Tell  repeal  Act of 2010 ; the  बजट   कंट्रोल  Act of  2011  ;  और  the American  करदाताओं  Relief Act of 2012 .
In  may   2012   ,  he  became   the  first  बैठे  U.S. president to  सरेआम   support  same-sex marriage and in  2013  his administration filed briefs  जिससे   urged  the  परम्   अदालत  to rule in  एहसान  of  same-sex  couples in  दो  high-profile cases .
in  foreign  नीति  , Obama  ended   u.S.  military involvement in the Iraq War  ,  increased  troop  levels in  अफगानिस्तान  ,  हस्ताक्षरित  the  नई  START arms  कंट्रोल  treaty with  रूस  ,  ordered  U.S.  सैन्य  involvement in Libya  ,  and  ordered  the  सैन्य  operation that resulted in the death  of  Osama  बिन  Laden .
The  होंडा  CBR1100XX Super  blackbird  was  a  Honda  मोटरसाइकिल  made from 1996 to  2007  .
the  bike was  विकसित  to challenge the Kawasaki Ninja ZX-11 as the  संसार   's   तीव्रतम  production  मोटरसाइकिल   ,   और   होंडा   succeeded   साथ  a  शीर्ष  speed  of   .
Two  सालो  later  the   शीर्षक  passed to the Suzuki Hayabusa  ,  which  पहुँचे   .
the  Blackbird is named  बाद  the  लॉकहीड  SR-71 , also a speed  रिकार्ड   होल्डर  .
नमूना  view  of  an  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  health record  आधारित  on  बिंब
Sample  दृश्य   of   an  electronic  स्वास्थ्य  record
An electronic health  रिकार्ड   (  EHR ) is an  evolving  concept  पारिभाषित   as  a systematic collection of  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  health  सूचना  about individual patients  or   populations   .
it  is a  रिकार्ड  in  डिजिटल   स्वरूप   कि   is   theoretically  capable  of   होने  shared  आरपार  different  स्वास्थ्य  care  जमावट  .
In  कुछ  cases  इस  sharing can occur by way of  network-connected  enterprise-wide  सूचना  systems  और  other information  संजाल  or exchanges  .
EHRs  may   शामिल  a range of  आंकड़ा  , including demographics  ,  medical  इतिहास   ,  medication and allergies  ,  immunization  औकात  , laboratory test results ,  radiology  images ,  vital   लक्षण  ,  निजी   आंकड़े  like  आयु  and weight , and billing information .
The  मेरिनर   up  on the mast in a storm  .
One of  the   wood-engraved  illustrations  by  Gustave Doré .
The  rime  of the  प्राचीन  Mariner  (   originally   the  Rime of the Ancyent Marinere )  is   the   longest  major  कविता  by  the   अंग्रेज़ी  poet  सैमुएल  Taylor  कॉलरिज   ,  written  in  1797–98 and  प्रकाशित  in 1798 in  the   पहला   संस्करण  of Lyrical  ballads   .
Modern  संस्करण  use  a  later revised version printed in  1817  that featured  a  gloss  .
Along  साथ  other  कविताएं   in  Lyrical  ballads   ,   it  was  a  signal shift to modern poetry  और  the  शुरूआत  of British Romantic literature .
a  proxy auto-config  (   pac  ) file  defines   कैसा   वेब  browsers  और  other  उपयोक्ता  agents can automatically choose  the  appropriate  प्रॉक्सी  server  (   अभिगम  method )  लिये  fetching a given URL  .
a   pac   संचिका  contains a  जावास्क्रिप्ट  function “FindProxyForURL (  url  ,  मेजबान  ) ” .
This function returns a string  साथ   एक   or  more  अभिगम   विधि  specifications .
ये  specifications cause the  उपयोक्ता   एजेंट  to  उपयोग   a  particular proxy server or to connect  सीधे  .
Multiple specifications provide a  fall-back  when a  प्रॉक्सी  fails to  respond  .
The  ब्राउजर   fetches  this  pac   संचिका   पहले  requesting other  यूआरएल  .
The URL of the  pac   संचिका   is   either   विन्यस्त   हस्तचालित  or determined  automatically  by the Web Proxy Autodiscovery Protocol .
Zendaya Coleman  (  born  सितंबर  1  ,   1996  )  ,  known mononymously as  zendaya  ,  is  an  अमरीकी   अभिनेत्री  , singer  और   नर्तकी   .
वो  stars  on  the  डिज़्नी   चैनल  sitcom  शेक  It Up as Rocky Blue  .
वो  has  स्ट्रक्चर  in  दो  films and  निभाई   एक  of the lead roles in the  फिल्मी  Frenemies  as  Halley Brandon  .
वो  voiced Fern in the  pixie  Hollow  खेल   .
She  appeared  in Good  लक  Charlie  as  Rocky Blue  और   in  a Good Luck Charlie  और  Shake  it  Up crossover title  चार्ली   शेक  It  up  .
वो   appeared   on  PrankStars as  herself   in  the  एपीसोड  ``  चलना  The Prank  ''   और  on A.N.T . Farm as  sequoia   जोन्स  in  the  episode ``  रचनात्मक  ConsultANT . ''
zendaya  is also  a   संगीतकार  .
She signed a deal  साथ  Hollywood Records on August  8   ,  2012 and  प्रारंभ   रिकॉर्डिंग   गीतों  for her  डेब्यू   एल्बम   on  August  12  ,  2012   .
वो   released   a  single  इससे  an independent  लेबल   पुकारा   ``   swag  It Out  ``   और   another   सिंगल   साथ   बेला  Thorne  पुकारा   ``   देखें  Me  ,   ''  which is featured on the Break It Down  एल्बम  .
on   कूच  20 , 2012 , Zendaya and  बेला  Thorne  released  an  एल्बम  together called  शेक  It Up : Live  2  Dance , each have their own song  on  it  ,  along with  a   mash-up  of  दोनो  songs together  as  one .
On August  21  , 2012 ,  zendaya  and Bella Thorne released an  ep   पुकारा  Shake It Up :  बना   in   जापानी  .
Zendaya  रै  a  क्रिसमस  song called `` Shake Santa  शेक  , '' which  is  on the  डिज़्नी   चैनल   अवकाश   प्लेलिस्ट   cd  , which  थी   released   on   अक्तूबर   2  , 2012 .
On March  5   ,   2013   the   तीसरा  Shake  it  Up soundtrack was released , entitled  i  <  3  Dance  ;   on  it  ,  Zendaya has two  गीतों  with  बेला  -  ``  Contagious Love  ''   और   ``  This Is  my  Dance  मंजिल   ''  - as well as one  सोलो   सोंग  ,  ``   ताल  of My  ढोल   .  ''
This  is  a  सूची  of airports  in   पेन्सिलवेनिया  ( a  u.S.  state ) ,  grouped   by  type and sorted  by  location .
It  contains  all  public-use  and military airports in  the   राज्य   .
Some private-use and  पूर्व   एयरपोर्ट  may be  शामिल   जहाँ   notable  , such  as  airports that were previously public-use , those with  वाणिज्यिक  enplanements  अंकित   by  the FAA or  एयरपोर्ट   आबंटित  an IATA  विमानक्षेत्र  code .
iOS  (  previously iPhone OS )  is   a   मोबाईल   ऑपरेटिंग  system  विकसित  and distributed by  ठहराना   inc  .  originally  released in  2007  for the iPhone and iPod Touch platforms  ,  it has been extended  to  support  अन्य   ठहराना  devices such as the iPad and  ठहराना   tv  .
Unlike Microsoft 's Windows  फोन   और   google  's Android , Apple does not  अनुज्ञा  iOS for installation on  non-apple  hardware .
,   ठहराना   's   app  Store contained more  than  700,000 iOS applications  ,  which have collectively been  डाउनलोड  more  than  30  अरब   टाइम्स   .
It had a 21 %  share  of the  स्मार्टफोन   मोबाईल   ऑपरेटिंग  system units  shipped   in   the  fourth  क्वार्टर  of 2012 , behind  तभी  Google  's  Android  .
In June  2012   ,  it  accounted  for  65  % of mobile web data consumption (  सहित  use on  दोनो   the  iPod  टच  and  the   ipad   )  .
At the half of  2012   ,  there  यहूद  410  लाख  devices  activated  .
according  to  the  special  मीडिया  event held  by  Apple  on   सितंबर  12 , 2012 , 400  लाख   डिवाइस  have been sold through June 2012 .
the  user interface of  आईओएस   is  based on the concept  of  direct manipulation ,  using  multi-touch  इशारों   .
इंटरफ़ेस   कंट्रोल  elements  consist   of   sliders   ,  switches  ,   और   बटन  .
बातचीत  with the OS includes  इशारों   ऐसे   as  swipe ,  tap  ,  पिंच  , and reverse pinch  ,  all of  जिससे   have   विशिष्ट  definitions within  the   कॉन्टेक्स्ट   of  the iOS  ऑपरेटिंग   प्रणाली   और  its multi-touch  इंटरफ़ेस  .
Internal accelerometers are used by  कुछ  applications  to   respond  to shaking  the  device  (   एक  common  परिणाम  is  the   undo  command  )   or  rotating it in  तीन  dimensions ( one  आम  result  is   switching  from  पोर्ट्रेट  to landscape mode )  .
iOS  is  derived  इससे  OS  x  ,  साथ   जिससे   it  shares  the  Darwin foundation  .
iOS is  ठहराना   's   मोबाईल  version of  the   os  X operating  प्रणाली  used  on  Apple computers  .
in   आईओएस  , there are four  abstraction   परतों  : the  कोर  OS layer ,  the  Core  सेवाएं  layer ,  the   मीडिया   परत  , and the Cocoa Touch layer .
The current  संस्करण  of the  ऑपरेटिंग  system (  आईओएस   6.1.3  ) dedicates 1-1.5 GB  of  the device 's flash  मेमोरी   लिये  the  प्रणाली  partition  ,  using  roughly   800  MB of  कि  partition (  varying   by  model )  लिये  iOS itself .
iOS  फिलहाल  runs on iPhone ,  ipad  , iPod  टच  and Apple TV  .
the  Plymouth  superbird  is famous  लिये  its  अत्यधिक  high rear wing  .
1987   audi  Sport QuattroS1 with its  विशाल  wings  at  Pikes Peak
A spoiler  is   an  automotive  aerodynamic   यंत्र   जिनकी  intended  डिज़ाइन   फलन   is  to 'spoil '  प्रतिकूल  air movement across  a  body  of  a vehicle in  गति  ,  प्रायः  described as turbulence  or  drag  .
Spoilers  on  the front of  a  vehicle  हैं  often  पुकारा   एयर  dams  ,   क्युकी   in  addition to directing  एयर   प्रवाह  they  भी  reduce the amount of air flowing  underneath  the vehicle  जिससे  generally  reduces   aerodynamic  lift and  खीचें  .
Spoilers  हैं  often  fitted  to race and  high-performance  sports cars ,  हालांकि  they have become common on passenger  वाहनों   as   खूब  .
Some spoilers  हैं  added to cars  primarily   लिये  styling purposes and have either little  aerodynamic   लाभ   or  even make  the  aerodynamics worse .
Spoilers for cars are often  incorrectly  confused with ,  or   the  term used  interchangeably   साथ  ,  विंग्स  .
ऑटोमोटिव   विंग्स   हैं   डिवाइस   जिनकी   intended   डिज़ाइन  is to generate downforce  as  air passes around  उन्हें   ,  not simply disrupt existing airflow  पैटर्न   .
मारियो  , who serves as Nintendo 's mascot  ,   is   a  fictional character created  by  game designer  शिगेरू  Miyamoto  और  voiced  by  Charles  martinet  .
This is a list of  वीडियो   खेल  where the character  मारियो  plays a  भाग  , either as  the  protagonist , antagonist  ,  supporting  अक्षर   ,  as part  of   an   ensemble   डाल   ,   as   a  cameo ,  or  in a game within a game  .
It  करता  not  शामिल  simple  सन्दर्भ   to  the  अक्षर   ,   ऐसे   as  the portraits of Mario found  in  The  लेजेंड   of   zelda   :  A Link to the Past .
the  year  indicated  is the year the  खेल  was first  released   ,   सबसे   commonly   in  Japan  ;  games were  sometimes   released   सालो   बाद   in  other  regions   of  the world .
The list  शामिल  ports , remakes  और  compilations  .
it  does  n't   शामिल  any  आभासी  Console re-releases .
`` Man  of  Constant Sorrow  ''   (   भी  known as  ``   i  Am A  man  of Constant  विषाद  '' ) is a traditional  अमरीकी  folk  सोंग   पहला  recorded by Dick Burnett  ,  a  partially  blind fiddler from  केंटकी   .
The song  थी   originally   अंकित  by Burnett  as  ``  विदाई  Song  ''   मुद्रित  in  a  Richard Burnett  songbook  ,  circa   1913   .
An early version was recorded by Emry Arthur in  1928   (  Vocalion  vo   5208  )  .
Public  ब्याज  in  the  song  थी  renewed  बाद  the release of the 2000  फिल्मी   o  Brother , Where Art Thou  ?
, as  it  plays a central  भूमिका  in  the   फिल्मी  's plot  .
The song  थी  also  शामिल  in the  फिल्मी   's  highly  कामयाब  , multiple-platinum selling  साउंडट्रैक  .
Josephson  जंक्शन   सरणी   चिप   विकसित  by the National  ब्यूरो   of  Standards  as  a standard volt
the   वोल्ट  ( symbol : V ) is  the  SI  निकला   ईकाई  for  इलेक्ट्रिक  potential (  वोल्टेज  ) ,  इलेक्ट्रिक   संभावित  difference , and  विद्युतवाहक  force .
the   वोल्ट  is  नामित   in  honor  of   the   इतालवी  physicist  alessandro   volta   (   1745–1827  ) , who invented  the  voltaic  pile   ,  possibly the first chemical battery .
a  plaque  commemorating   the  location of  the   साराजेवो  assassination  और   कदम  of Gavrilo Princip  (   चित्र   लिया  in 1987 , before steps were  removed   in   1992  and plaque changed  इससे  Cyrillic to  लैटिन  script  )
A plaque  commemorating  the location of  the   साराजेवो  assassination  (  image taken in 2009 )
On 28  जून   1914   ,  Archduke  फ्रांज  Ferdinand  of  Austria , heir presumptive  to  the  austro-hungarian   सिंहासन  ,  और  his wife , Sophie  ,   duchess   of   hohenberg   ,   यहूद  shot dead in Sarajevo  ,  by  gavrilo   princip  ,  एक  of  a   समूह  of six Bosnian  serb  assassins  समन्वित   by   डेनियल  Ilić .
the   राजनैतिक  objective of the assassination was  to  break off  austria-hungary   's  south-Slav provinces  so   वे   could   be   संयुक्त   into  a Greater Serbia or  a  Yugoslavia .
The  हत्यारे  '  motives  were consistent  साथ   the   गति   कि  later became  ज्ञात  as Young Bosnia  .
सर्बियाई  military officers stood behind  the  attack .
At  the  top  of  these Serbian military conspirators was  मुख्य   of   सर्बियाई  Military  प्रज्ञा   dragutin   dimitrijević   ,   उसके   righthand  man Major  vojislav  Tankosić , and Masterspy  rade  Malobabić .
प्रमुख  Tankosić armed the assassins  साथ  bombs and pistols and trained  उन्हें  .
The  हत्यारे   यहूद  given access to  the   वही  clandestine  टनल  of  safe-houses  and agents  कि   rade  Malobabić  प्रयुक्त   लिये   the   घुसपैठ  of weapons and operatives  into  Austria-Hungary .
The assassins  ,  the key members of the  clandestine  tunnel  ,  and the  कुंजी   सर्बियाई  military  षड्यंत्रकारियों   जो   यहूद  still  जिंदा   यहूद  arrested , tried , convicted  और  punished .
those  who  यहूद  arrested in Bosnia were  आजमाया   in  Sarajevo in October 1914 .
the  other conspirators were arrested  और  tried  पहले  a Serbian kangaroo court  on   the  French-controlled Salonika Front in  1916–1917  on  unrelated  false charges  ;   सर्बिया   चलाया  three  of  the top military  षड्यंत्रकारियों  .
Much of  कया   is  known about the assassinations comes  इससे   ये   दो   ट्रायल  and related  रिकॉर्ड   .
Assignment of responsibility for the  bombing   और  murders  of  28 June is highly  विवादास्पद   क्युकी  the attack led to  the   outbreak  of World War I one month  बाद   .
मिशन   सैन  Juan Capistrano was a Spanish  मिशन   in  Southern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ,  स्तिथ  in  present-day   सैन  Juan  capistrano  .
It was founded  on  All  संतो  ' Day  नवम्बर  1 , 1776  ,   by   स्पेनी   catholics  of the  franciscan   अनुक्रम  .
Named for  giovanni   da   capistrano  ,  a   15th   सदी  theologian  और  `` warrior priest  ''   जो  resided  in  the Abruzzo region of Italy , San Juan Capistrano has  the  distinction  of  being  घर  to  the   oldest   भवन  in California  स्टिल  in use , a  चैपल   निर्मित  in  1782  .
Known alternately as  ``   सेरा  's Chapel '' and  ``   पिता  Serra 's Church  ,  ''  it  is the  तभी   extant  structure where it  रै   महरूम  documented  कि  the padre  junipero  Serra celebrated mass .
One of the best known of the  alta   कैलिफ़ोर्निया   मिशन  ( and one  of   the   few  missions to  have  actually been founded twice—others  होने  Mission San  जिबरील   arcángel   और  Mission La Purísima Concepción  )  .
The  साईट  was originally  consecrated  on  अक्तूबर  30  ,   1775  , by  पिता   fermín  Lasuén  ,   लकिन  was quickly abandoned  due   to  unrest  among  the indigenous population in San Diego  .
the  success  of   the  settlement is evident  in  its historical records .
Prior  to  the arrival of the  प्रचारकों  , some 550 natives  यहूद  scattered throughout the  लोकल   क्षेत्रफल   .
by  1790  ,  the  क्रमांक   of  converted  ईसाइयों  had  grown  to 700  ,  and just six  सालो   बाद  nearly 1,000 ``  neophytes   ``   (   हाल   converts   )  lived in  or   around   the  Mission compound .
1,649   baptisms  were conducted  कि  year alone  ,   आउट   of  the  कुल  4,639  souls   परिवर्तित  between 1776 and  1847  .
More than 2,000 former  निवासियों  ( mostly Juaneño Indians  )  are buried in  unmarked  graves in the  मिशन   's  cemetery ( campo santo )  .
The remains of  पिता   (  later Monsignor )  st.  John  o'sullivan   ,  who recognized the property  's   ऐतिहासिक   मान   और  working tirelessly  to  conserve and rebuild its structures , are buried at the entrance to  the  cemetery  on   the  west  पक्ष   of  the property , and a statue  उठाया  in  उसके   सम्मान  stands at  the   सिर  of  the   क्रिप्ट  .
the  surviving  चैपल  also serves as the final  resting  place  of   तीन  padres who passed on  जबकि  serving at the Mission :  fathers  José  barona  ,  विसेंट  Fustér , and  विसेंट   पास्कुआल  Oliva  हैं   सब   entombed  beneath  the   अभयारण्य   मंजिल   .
The Criolla or  ``   मिशन  grape , '' was first  planted  at San Juan Capistrano  in   1779  ;  in   1783  , the  पहला  wine produced in Alta  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  emerged from the Mission 's  वाइनरी   .
the  Mission entered  a  long  काल  of  क्रमिक  decline  बाद   secularization  in  1833   .
numerous  efforts were made over the years  to  restore  the   मिशन   to  its former glory ,  लकिन  none  मिले  with  ग्रेट  success  जबतक  the arrival of  पिता  O'Sullivan in 1910  .
बहाली  efforts continue , and  ``   सेरा  's  चैपल   ''   is  still used  लिये  religious  सेवाएं   .
About half-a-million visitors ,  सहित  80,000 school  children  , come  to  the Mission  प्रत्येक  year  .
And while the ruins of ``  the  Great  स्टोन   गिरिजाघर  '' ( which was all but  leveled  by an 1812 earthquake  )  are  a  renowned  architectural  wonder , the Mission is  शायद   बेहतरीन   ज्ञात  for  the   सालाना   ``  Return  of   the  Swallows  ''  which is traditionally  observed  every  कूच  19  (  Saint Joseph 's  दिन   )   .
Mission San Juan Capistrano  रै   परोसा  as a favorite subject for many notable artists , and  रै   महरूम  immortalized  in  literature  और   on   फिल्मी  numerous times  ,  perhaps  अधिक  than any other mission .
in   1984   ,  a  आधुनिक  church  जटिल  was  constructed  just north  और   वेस्ट  of the Mission compound  और  is now known  as   मिशन   basilica  San  जुआन   capistrano   .
Today , the  मिशन  compound  serves  as a  संग्रहालय   ,  with  the  Serra Chapel  भीतर   the  compound serving  as   a   चैपल  for  the  mission parish  .
Better  बंद   मुर्दे  is a  1985  American  टीन  romantic comedy  फिल्मी   अभिनीत  John  cusack  and written  और  directed by Savage Steve  हॉलैंड  .
it  tells  the  story of high  स्कूल   छात्र  Lane Myer  जो   is   suicidal  after  उसके   गर्लफ्रेंड  breaks up  साथ   उसे  .
mercedes-benz   superdome   (   originally  Louisiana  superdome  and commonly  the  Superdome  )  is a sports and exhibition  स्टेडियम  ,  स्तिथ  in the  सेंट्रल   कारोबार  District of New  ऑरलियन्स  , Louisiana  ,  USA .
योजनाएँ  were  drawn   up   in  1967  ,  by the New Orleans  modernist  architectural firm  of  Curtis and  डेविस  .
इसके  steel  फ़्रेम   कवर   a  expanse  .
इसके  dome is  बना   of   a  Lamella multi-ringed frame and  रै  a  व्यास  of , making it  the  largest fixed  domed  structure in the  संसार  .
it  is  घर   to  the NFL 's  नई  Orleans  संतो   ,  the  ncaa  's Division  i-a  Tulane  ग्रीन   वेव   फ़ुटबॉल  team  (  the largest football stadium in  सम्मेलन  USA ) ,  the   राज्य  Farm Bayou Classic , the R+L  वाहक  New  ऑरलियन्स  Bowl , the  allstate   शुगर  Bowl  और  , every fourth year ,  the  BCS  नेशनल  Championship Game  .
क्युकी  of the  आकार  and  स्थान  in one  of  the major tourist destinations in  the  United States  ,  the  superdome  routinely makes  the   ``  short  सूची   ''  of  उम्मीदवार   होने  considered for major sporting events , such as the Super Bowl  और  the  फाइनल  Four .
in   2005  ,  the   superdome  gained international  ध्यान   of  a  अलग  type  जब  it housed thousands of  लोगों  seeking  आश्रय   इससे  Hurricane Katrina .
The  भवन   suffered   extensive  damage  as  a result  of  the storm  ,  and  थी  closed for many months afterward  .
On October  3   ,  2011 , it was  घोषित  that German  automaker  Mercedes-Benz purchased naming  अधिकारों  to the stadium .
the   नई   नाम   took  effect on October 23 , 2011  .
It is the third stadium that  रै  naming rights  इससे   mercedes-benz   (   और  first  in   the   संयुक्त  States )  ,  after the Mercedes-Benz  एरिना   ,  the  स्टेडियम   of   bundesliga   क्लबों   vfb   stuttgart  , in Stuttgart , Germany  और  the Mercedes-Benz  एरिना  in  शंघाई   ,   चीन   .
Lobby of Jambo House
जिराफ़  on the savannah  at   जम्बो   हाउस
डिज़्नी   's   एनिमल   किंगडम   आवास  is an African-themed  डीलक्स  resort at  the   वॉल्ट  Disney  संसार  Resort .
it   खोली  on  अप्रैल  16  ,  2001  .
the  resort is owned and operated by  वॉल्ट  Disney Parks and Resorts .
Disney  's  Animal  किंगडम   आवास   is  located in the Animal Kingdom  रिज़ॉर्ट   क्षेत्रफल  , adjacent  to  Disney  's   एनिमल  Kingdom  .
It  देता  guests the  अवसर  to  दृश्य   चरने  wildlife outside their  कक्ष  and  पब्लिक  areas in the  रिज़ॉर्ट   भीतर   निकटता  of  the  animals , conveying the feeling  of   होने  in  an  African savanna .
the  People  's  Party  ,   भी  known as  the  `` Populists '' , was a short-lived political  पार्टी  in  the   संयुक्त  States established in  1891   दौरान   the   populist  movement (  संयुक्त   राज्य  , 19th  सदी  ) .
It  थी  most important in 1892-96  ,  and  तब  rapidly  धुंधली   दूर  .
आधारित  among poor  ,  white cotton farmers  in  the  दक्षिण  (  विशेषकर  North  कैरोलिना  , Alabama  ,   और  Texas  )   और   hard-pressed  wheat  किसानो   in   the   मैदान  states ( especially Kansas  और   नेब्रास्का   )  , it  represented  a radical crusading form  of  agrarianism and hostility  to   बैंको  ,  railroads  , and elites generally .
it  sometimes  formed   coalitions   साथ  labor  संघ  , and in 1896 the Democrats endorsed  उनके   अध्यक्षीय  nominee , William  जेनिंग्स  Bryan .
the   शर्तें  `` populist  ''   और   ``  populism `` are  commonly  used for  anti-elitist   appeals  in  विपक्ष   to   स्थापित  interests  और  mainstream parties .
भाषाई  map of  सीरियल   ,  Cameroon , and Benin  .
Sign in English , outside the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Lagos
There are hundreds  of   भाषाएं  spoken in Nigeria .
the   प्रमुख  languages are Yoruba , Hausa , Igbo ,  ईदो  , Fulfulde  ,  Kanuri , and Ibibio .
The  आधिकारिक  language of Nigeria  ,   अंग्रेज़ी   ,   the  former colonial language ,  थी  chosen to facilitate  the   सांस्कृतिक  and linguistic unity  of  the  देश   .
English  ,  however ,  remains  an  विशेष  preserve  of   the  country 's urban elite  ,  and  is  not  widely  spoken in  ग्रामीण  areas , which  comprise  three quarters  of  the countries  जनसांख्यिकी   .
Nigeria 's linguistic  विविधता   is   a  microcosm of Africa  as  a whole , encompassing three major African languages families :  afroasiatic   ,   nilo-saharan   ,  and Niger–Congo .
सीरियल  also has  अनेक  as-yet unclassified languages , such as Cen Tuum  ,   जिससे   may   represent  a  relic   of  an even  वृहद   विविधता  prior to  the  spread of the current  भाषा   परिवारों   .
a   श्रेणी  of events led to the attack  on  Pearl  हार्बर   .
युद्ध  between Japan and  the  United States had been a  सम्भावना   कि  each  स्वदेश   's   सैन्य   शक्तियां  planned  लिये  since the 1920s  ,   हालांकि   रियल   टेंशन   किया  not  शुरू   जबतक   the   1931   आक्रमण  of  मंचूरिया  by  जापानी   .
Over  the   अगला  decade , Japan expanded  धीरे   into  China ,  अग्रणी   to   सब   आउट  war  between   the   दो  in 1937 .
In  1940  Japan invaded  फ्रेंच  Indochina in an effort  to  embargo  सब   imports  into  चीन  ,  सहित  war supplies purchased from the U.S .
This  मूव  prompted the  संयुक्त  States to embargo  सब  oil exports  ,   अग्रणी  the Imperial Japanese  नेवी   to  estimate that it had less than  दो   सालो   of  bunker  आयल   बाकी  and to support the  मौजूदा  plans to  seize   आयल  resources in  the  Dutch East  इंडीज  .
Planning  था  been  underway   लिये   कुछ  time on  an  attack  on   the  `` Southern Resource Area  ''  to add it  to  the Greater  ईस्ट  Asia Co-Prosperity  गोला  that  जापानी   envisioned  in  the  Pacific .
The Philippine islands  ,  at  कि  time  an  American  territory  , were  भी   a  Japanese  निशाना   .
the  Japanese  सैन्य  concluded  कि  an invasion  of  the Philippines  होता  provoke an American military response .
Rather than  seize  and  fortify  the  आइलैंड्स   ,   और  wait for the inevitable US counterattack  ,   जापानी   's   सैन्य  leaders instead  decided   on   the   pre-emptive  Pearl Harbor attack ,  जिससे  they  assumed  would negate  the  American forces  needed   लिये  the  मुक्ति   और   reconquest  of the islands .
Planning for the attack  था  begun in very  जल्दी   1941  , by  admiral  Isoroku Yamamoto  .
He  आखिरकार  won  assent  from  the  Naval  ऊँची  Command  by   ,  among other  बाते   ,  threatening to  इस्तीफा  .
The attack  थी  approved in the summer at  an   इम्पीरियल  Conference  और   again  at  a   दूसरी  Conference  in  the  पतन  .
Simultaneously over the year  ,  pilots  यहूद   प्रशिक्षित   ,   और   जहाजों  prepared for  इसके  execution  .
Authority for the  आक्रमण  was granted  at   the  second  इम्पीरियल  Conference  if  a  राजनयिक   परिणाम  satisfactory to Japan was not reached  .
बाद  final  स्वीकृति  by Emperor  हिरोहितो   the   अनुक्रम   to  attack was  जारी  at the  शुरूआत  of December .
a  common  दफ्तर   stapler
a   आम   स्कूल   stapler
a  stapler  is  a  mechanical  device  कि   joins  sheets of paper or  समान  material by  ड्राइविंग  a  पतला   मेटल  staple through  the  sheets and folding  the   ends  .
Staplers are widely used  in   सरकारी   ,   कारोबार   ,  offices , homes  और   स्कूलों  .
the   शब्द  ``  stapler  '' can  दरअसल  refer  to   a  number of different  डिवाइस  of  varying   उपयोग   .
In addition  to  joining paper  चादरें  together ,  staplers  can also  be  used  in   a  surgical setting to join tissue  साथ  with surgical staples  to   बंद  a surgical  घाव   (  much in the same  रास्ता  as stitches  or  sutures  )  .
Typically , most  staplers  are used to  जुड़ें  multiple sheets of paper .
पेपर  staplers  आइये   in   दो  distinct types :  हस्तचालित  and  इलेक्ट्रिक   .
Manual staplers  हैं   सामान्यतः  hand-held , although models that are  प्रयुक्त  while set  on   a   डेस्क  or  अन्य  surface are  नहीं   uncommon  .
Electric staplers  मौजूद  in  a   किस्में   of   अलग   डिजाइन   और  models .
उनके   प्राथमिक  operating function is  to   जुड़ें  large numbers of paper sheets  साथ  in  रैपिड   उत्तराधिकार  .
कुछ  electric staplers can join up  to   20  sheets  at  a  समय  .
Swallowing  ,   ज्ञात   scientifically  as deglutition ,  is  the  प्रक्रम   in  the human or animal body that makes something pass from  the   मुँह  , to  the  pharynx , and into the esophagus  ,   जबकि   shutting  the  epiglottis   .
If  इस   fails  and  the  object  goes   through  the  श्वासनली  , then choking or  pulmonary  aspiration can occur  .
in   the   इंसान   देह  it is  नियंत्रित  by the  swallowing  reflex .
Thaddeus  स्टीवंस  (  अप्रैल  4 , 1792 – August  11   ,   1868   )   ,   of   पेन्सिलवेनिया  ,  थी  a leader of the  कट्टरपंथी  Republican faction of the  रिपब्लिकन  Party  और  a  fierce   प्रतिद्वन्दी  of  गुलामी   .
He  थी   एक  of the most influential members  in  the history of  कॉंग्रेस   .
As  अध्यक्ष  of the  शक्तिशाली  House  तरीके   और   अर्थात्   कमेटी   ,   स्टीवंस   ,  a  witty   ,  sarcastic  स्पीकर  and flamboyant  पार्टी  leader , dominated  the  House from  1861  until  उसके  death  .
he  wrote much of the  वित्तीय  legislation that paid  लिये   the   अमरीकी   सिविल  War .
Stevens and  सीनेटर   चार्ल्स  Sumner  यहूद   the  prime leaders  of   the  Radical  republicans   दौरान  the  युद्ध  and Reconstruction era .
Scholarly views of Stevens have  swung  sharply  चूंकि   उसके   मौत   as  interpretations  of   पुनर्निर्माण  have changed .
इतिहासकारों  of the  dunning   स्कूल  (  1890s–1940s  ) held Stevens responsible for demanding  हर्ष  treatment of  the  white South and  violating  American traditions  of   republicanism  ,  depicting  Stevens  as  a villain for  उसके  advocacy of  हर्ष  measures  in  the South such as disfranchising  सब  ex-Confederates  .
This highly negative  characterization  held  sway  into  the  1950s .
the  rise of  the   neo-abolitionist  school  in  the 1950s led  to   a  strong positive appreciation of Stevens '  कार्य  on civil rights for Freedmen .
A recent biographer characterizes him  as   ,   ``  The Great  commoner  , savior of  फ़्री  public education  in  Pennsylvania ,  नेशनल  Republican  नेता   in  the struggles  विरूद्ध  slavery  in  the United  राज्य   और  intrepid  mainstay  of the  attempt  to secure  जातिगत  justice for  the   freedmen  during Reconstruction , the only member of  the  House of  प्रतिनिधि  ever  to   have  been  ज्ञात   as  the 'dictator  '  of  कॉंग्रेस   .  ''
अवलोकन  of  the  translation of eukaryotic messenger  rna
Diagram  प्रर्दशित   the  translation of mRNA and  the  synthesis  of   प्रोटीन  by a ribosome
In molecular  जीवविज्ञान  and genetics , translation  is  the  प्रक्रम  through  जिससे  cellular ribosomes  manufacture  proteins  .
It  is  part  of  the  प्रक्रम   of  gene expression .
in  translation , messenger RNA  (   mrna  ) produced by transcription is decoded  by   the  ribosome to produce  a   विशिष्ट  amino acid chain ,  or  polypeptide ,  कि  will later fold into an active  प्रोटीन   .
In bacteria ,  अनुवाद   occurs   in  the cell 's cytoplasm , where  the   विशाल  and small  subunits   of   the   राइबोसोम   हैं   स्तिथ   ,   और  bind to  the   mrna  .
In  eukaryotes  ,  अनुवाद   occurs  across  the  membrane of the endoplasmic  reticulum  in a process  पुकारा   vectorial   संश्लेषण  .
the   राइबोसोम   facilitates  decoding  by  inducing the  बाइंडिंग  of tRNAs  साथ  complementary  anticodon  sequences  to  that of the mRNA .
The  trnas  carry specific amino acids that are chained  साथ   into  a polypeptide as the  mrna  passes through and  is  `` read  ''  by the  राइबोसोम  in a fashion  reminiscent   to  that  of  a stock  टिकर   और   टिकर  tape .
In many  उदाहरण  ,  the   संपूर्ण   ribosome/mrna   जटिल  binds to the outer membrane of  the   अशिष्ट  endoplasmic  reticulum  and releases the nascent protein polypeptide inside  लिये   बाद  vesicle transport  और   स्राव   बाहर   of  the cell  .
अनेक   प्रकार  of  transcribed  RNA ,  ऐसे   as  transfer RNA ,  ribosomal  RNA , and  छोटी   नाभिकीय  RNA  ,  do not  undergo  translation into proteins  .
Translation  proceeds  in  चार  phases  :   दीक्षा  , elongation , translocation  और   termination   (  all describing the growth  of  the  अमीनो  acid chain , or polypeptide  कि  is the  उत्पाद  of translation ) .
Amino acids  हैं  brought to ribosomes  और   समवेत   into  proteins  .
In  सक्रियण  ,  the  correct  अमीनो   एसिड   is  covalently  बंधुआ   to  the correct transfer RNA ( tRNA ) .
The  अमीनो  acid is  joined  by  इसके   carboxyl  group to the 3  '  OH  of  the tRNA by  an  ester bond  .
When  the   trna  has an  अमीनो   एसिड  linked to it , it is termed `` charged ''  .
Initiation involves the small subunit of the  राइबोसोम  binding  to  the 5  '  end  of   mrna  with the  सहायता  of initiation  कारकों  ( IF ) .
termination  of  the  polypeptide happens when  the  A site  of  the  राइबोसोम   चेहरों  a  रोकें  codon ( UAA ,  uag  , or UGA ) .
No  trna   can  recognize  or  bind to this codon .
Instead  ,  the stop codon  induces  the  बाइंडिंग   of   a   रिलीज  factor protein that prompts  the   disassembly  of the  संपूर्ण   ribosome/mrna  complex .
A  क्रमांक  of antibiotics  अधिनियम  by  inhibiting  translation ;  ये   शामिल  anisomycin , cycloheximide ,  chloramphenicol   ,  tetracycline ,  streptomycin  ,  erythromycin  ,  और  puromycin  ,  among others  .
prokaryotic  ribosomes  have  a different  ढांचा  from  कि  of  eukaryotic   ribosomes  ,  और  thus  एंटीबायोटिक  can specifically target bacterial infections without  कोई  detriment  to  a eukaryotic  मेजबान  's cells .
a  multimedia message  on  a mobile phone  .
मल्टीमीडिया   messaging  Service  (  MMS )  is   a  standard way to  भेजें   संदेश   कि  include multimedia content  to   और   इससे   मोबाईल  phones  .
it  extends the core  sms  ( Short Message Service )  काबिलियत  that allowed exchange  of  text  संदेश   तभी   up   to  160 characters in length .
The most popular use  is   to  send  छायाचित्र   इससे   camera-equipped  handsets , although it  is  also popular as a  विधि  of  delivering   न्यूज  and entertainment content  सहित  videos ,  तस्वीरें   ,  text pages  और  ringtones  .
The standard  is   विकसित  by the  खोलें  Mobile  गठबंधन   (   ओमो   )  , although during development it was part of  the  3GPP and WAP groups  .
Smallpox was  an   संक्रामक  disease unique to humans  ,   caused  by  either   of  two  वायरस  variants  ,  Variola  प्रमुख  and  variola  minor  .
The  बीमारी   is  also known  by  the Latin names  variola  or Variola  वीरा   ,   निकला  from varius ( `` spotted  ''  )  or  varus (  ``  pimple  ''  )  .
The disease was  originally   ज्ञात  in English as the ``  चेचक   ''  or  ``  red plague ''  ;  the term  ``   smallpox  '' was first used  in  Britain  in  the  15th   सदी  to  फर्क  variola from  the  `` great pox '' ( syphilis ) .
The  पिछला  naturally occurring  मामला  of smallpox (  variola  minor )  थी  diagnosed  on   26  October  1977  .
Smallpox localized in small blood vessels  of   the  skin and in  the   मुँह   और  throat .
in   the  skin  it   resulted   in  a characteristic  maculopapular  rash and , later , raised  fluid-filled   फफोले  .
V. major produces a more serious disease  और   रै   an  overall  मृत्यु   रेट  of  30–35  %  .
V.  minor  कल्याणकारी   a  milder  रूप   of  disease (  भी  known as alastrim ,  cottonpox  , milkpox ,  whitepox  , and Cuban  खुजली  )  जिससे   मारता  about  1  % of  इसके  victims .
Long-term complications of V.  प्रमुख   संक्रमण  include  characteristic  scars ,  commonly   on  the  फेस  , which occur in 65–85 %  of   survivors  .
Blindness resulting  इससे  corneal ulceration and  scarring  , and limb  deformities   due  to  गठिया  and  osteomyelitis  are less common complications  ,  seen  in   परिचय  2–5  %   of   मामले   .
smallpox  is believed to have  उभरा  in  इंसान   populations   परिचय  10,000  bc  .
the  earliest physical evidence of  it   is  probably the  pustular   खाज  on the mummified body  of  Pharaoh Ramses V  of   मिश्र  .
The disease  मारे  an  अनुमानित  400,000  europeans   annually   दौरान  the  closing  years  of   the   18th  century  (  including  पाँच   reigning  monarchs ) , and  थी   जिम्मेदार   लिये  a third of all  दृष्टिहीनता  .
of   सब  those infected  ,  20–60  %   —and   over  80 % of  संक्रमित  children—died  इससे   the  disease  .
Smallpox  थी   जिम्मेदार   लिये  an  अनुमानित  300–500  लाख  deaths during the  20th   सदी  .
As recently as 1967 ,  the  World  स्वास्थ्य  Organization  (   जो  )  अनुमानित   कि  15  लाख  people contracted the disease  और   कि   दो  million  died   in  that year .
After  टीकाकरण  campaigns  throughout  the 19th and 20th centuries  ,   the  WHO  certified  the  eradication  of  smallpox  in  1979   .
Smallpox is one of two infectious diseases  to  have been eradicated , the other  होने  rinderpest , which was declared  eradicated   in   2011  .
`` I Want  to  Hold Your  हाथ  ''  is  a song  by   the  English rock  बैंड  the Beatles .
लिखा  by John Lennon and Paul McCartney , and recorded  in  October 1963 ,  it  was  the  first  बीटल्स  record to be made  using  four-track equipment .
With advance orders  exceeding  one million copies  in   the  United  किंगडम   ,  ``  i   want  to  थाम   अपना  Hand  ''  would ordinarily  have  gone straight  to   the   शीर्ष  of the  अंग्रेजों   रिकार्ड   चार्ट   on   इसके  day of release (  29   नवम्बर  1963  )  had  it  not been  अवरोधित   by  the  समूह  's first million seller  ``   वो   loves   तुम   ``  , the Beatles  '  previous UK  सिंगल   ,  which was  having   a   resurgent  spell  in   the   शीर्ष  position  following  intense media coverage of the  समूह   .
लेने  two weeks  to   dislodge   इसके  predecessor , `` I  want  to  थाम  Your Hand  ''  stayed  at  number one for  पाँच  weeks and remained in the UK  शीर्ष  fifty for  twenty-one   सप्ताह   in  total  .
It  थी  also  the  group 's  पहला  American  क्रमांक  one  ,  entering the Billboard Hot 100 chart on 18 January  1964   at  number  forty-five  and starting  the   अंग्रेजों   आक्रमण   of   the  American  म्यूज़िक  industry  .
by  1 February it  आयोजित  the  क्रमांक  one spot — for seven weeks — before being replaced by `` She Loves You ''  ,   a  reverse  परिदृश्य  of  कया  had occurred  in   ब्रिटेन   ,  and  remained  in the US  चार्ट  for a total of fifteen weeks .
``   i  Want to Hold  अपना   हाथ  '' became the  बीटल्स  '  best-selling  single worldwide  .
a  gasser was  a  type of  hot  rod originating on the dragstrips of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  in the late  1950s   और  continued until  the   जल्दी  1970s .
Gassers  यहूद   आधारित  on  उत्पादन  models from the 1930s to  mid-1960s  , which  have  been  stripped  of  extraneous   वज़न  and jacked up using a truck  बीम   धुरी   to   provide  better  वज़न  distribution on acceleration (  बीम  axles are  भी  lighter than an independent front  बर्खास्तगी  ) , though a raised  भण्डार   सामने  suspension is  आम  as well .
Common  वज़न   कटौती   तकनीकों  include  fiberglass   देह   panels   ,   stripped  interiors  और   plexiglass   खिड़कियाँ  ( sometimes color tinted ) .
क्युकी   वे   यहूद  primarily  निर्मित  for  रेसिंग  , these  गाड़ियाँ  typically  था   the   इंजन  swapped  to   a   larger  or more  शक्तिशाली   एक   ,   the  existing stock engine modified  (   प्रायः   heavily   )  or  दोनो  .
it   थी   बहुत  common to fit a  जड़ें   supercharger  and  mechanical   ईंधन   इंजेक्शन  , such  as   एक   इससे  Algon  ,  Hilborn , or Crower .
साथ  form  होने  dictated  by  function , their appearance  is   प्रायः  very top heavy  और   ungainly   ,  largely due to front ends being  उठाया  higher than stock  ,  to  assist   in   the   वज़न   ट्रांसफ़र  during  रैपिड  acceleration (  रेसिंग   )  .
Having their exhaust  पाइप   निकास   through   the  front fender well  is  a common  characteristic  of  gassers   ,   as   is  having bodies painted in  flamboyant   metalflakes   ,   मोती   ,   और   कैंडी   finishes  complemented by  lettering  in wild  फ़ॉन्ट्स  .
the  name arose because  वे  competed in  a  gasoline  -fueled  drag  रेसिंग  class  ,  rather than  एक  using  methanol  or nitromethane  .
The  gasser  is  the  predecessor of  the  modern Funny  car  .
Twelve-lead  ईकेजी   of  a 26-year-old male
electrocardiography  (  ईसीजी  or  ईकेजी   इससे  ) is a  transthoracic  ( across the thorax or chest ) interpretation of the electrical activity of the heart  over   a   काल  of time ,  as   detected  by  electrodes  attached  to  the surface  of  the skin and  अंकित  by  a  device external to the body .
The recording  उत्पादित  by this noninvasive procedure is  termed  an electrocardiogram  (   भी  ECG or EKG  )  .
an  ECG  is   प्रयुक्त  to  माप  the  रेट   और   नियमितता   of  heartbeats ,  as   खूब  as  the  size and position of the chambers ,  the  presence  of  any  क्षति  to  the  heart  ,  and the effects of drugs  or   डिवाइस   प्रयुक्त  to regulate  the  heart  ,   ऐसे   as  a pacemaker  .
सबसे   ecgs   हैं  performed for diagnostic  or   शोध   उद्देश्य   on  human  दिल  ,  लकिन  may  भी  be  performed  on animals , usually for  निदान  of heart abnormalities or  शोध  .
Donald  जॉन  Trump ,  sr.   (   born  June  14  , 1946  )   is   an   अमरीकी  business magnate ,  टेलीविज़न   व्यक्तित्व  and author .
he  is the chairman and president  of  The Trump  संगठन   और   the  founder of Trump Entertainment  रिसॉर्ट  .
ट्रम्प   's   हद  lifestyle , outspoken manner  ,  and  भूमिका  on the  एनबीसी  reality show The Apprentice  have  made  उसे  a well-known  हस्ती   जो   थी  No .  14   on   the   2012  Forbes  हस्ती   100   सूची  .
ट्रम्प  is  the   बेटे  of Fred Trump , a  धनवान  New  यॉर्क  City real-estate  डेवलपर  .
he  worked for  उसके  father  's  firm  ,  Elizabeth Trump &  बेटे   ,  while attending the  व्हार्टन   स्कूल   of  the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Pennsylvania , and  in  1968  officially  joined  the  company .
He  थी  given  कंट्रोल   of   the  company  in   1971   और  renamed it The  ट्रम्प  Organization .
in   2010  ,  ट्रम्प   expressed  an interest in becoming a  प्रत्याशी   लिये  president of  the  United States in  the  2012 election , though in May  2011   ,  he announced  he   होता   नहीं  be a candidate  .
In December 2011  ,  Trump was suggested  as  a possible vice presidential  चयन   by  Michele  bachmann  ,  if   वो   यहूद  to  जीत  the Republican nomination .
``   a   बदलें  Is Gon na Come  ''   is  a  1964   सिंगल  by  r  & B singer-songwriter Sam Cooke  ,   लिखा  and  पहला   अंकित  in  1963  and  released  under the  आरसीए   विक्टर  label  shortly   बाद  his  मौत   in  late  1964  .
Though only a  modest  hit  लिये  Cooke in comparison with his previous  singles   ,  the  सोंग  came to exemplify  the   1960s  ' Civil Rights Movement .
the  song  रै  gained in popularity  और  critical  acclaim   in   the  decades since its release ,  और   is  # 12  on  Rolling Stone 's  500  Greatest Songs  of   सब  Time .
भाप  rising from the  nesjavellir   geothermal  Power Station in Iceland .
Geothermal  उर्जा  is  थर्मल  energy generated  और  stored in the  धरती  .
थर्मल  energy is the  उर्जा  that determines  the   तापमान  of matter .
The Geothermal energy  of  the Earth 's crust originates from  the   असली  formation  of   the   ग्रह  ( 20  %  )  और   इससे  radioactive decay of  खनिज  ( 80  %  )  .
The  geothermal   अनुपात  ,  जिससे  is the difference in temperature between the  कोर  of the planet  और  its surface , drives  a  continuous  conduction   of   थर्मल  energy  in  the form of heat from the core to the  सतह   .
The adjective geothermal originates from  the   यूनानी   जड़ें  γη (  ge  ) , meaning earth ,  और   θερμος  (  thermos   )   ,   अर्थ   hot  .
At  the  core  of  the Earth  ,  thermal  उर्जा  is  निर्मित  by  रेडियोसक्रिय  decay and temperatures  may  reach over 5000 °C (  9,000  °F  )   .
Heat conducts  इससे   the  core to surrounding cooler  चट्टान  .
The  ऊँची   तापमान  and pressure cause some  चट्टान  to melt  ,   बनाना   मैग्मा   संवहन  upward  चूंकि   it  is lighter than the  ठोस  rock  .
The magma heats rock  और  water in  the  crust , sometimes  up  to 370 °C  (  700 °F  )  .
इससे   hot   स्रोतों  , geothermal  उर्जा  has been used for  स्नान  since Paleolithic  टाइम्स   और   लिये   स्पेस  heating  चूंकि  ancient Roman  टाइम्स   ,  but  it   is  now better  ज्ञात  for  विद्युत   पीढी  .
विश्वव्यापी  ,  परिचय  10,715  megawatts  ( MW  )  of geothermal power is  ऑनलाइन   in  24  देशों  .
An additional 28 gigawatts  of  direct geothermal heating capacity is  संस्थापित  for  ज़िला  heating  ,  space heating , spas ,  औद्योगिक  processes , desalination and  agricultural  applications  .
Geothermal power  is  cost  प्रभावी  ,  विश्वसनीय  , sustainable  ,  and environmentally friendly , but has  historically   महरूम   सीमित   to   क्षेत्रों   निकट   tectonic  plate boundaries .
Recent  technological  advances have  dramatically  expanded the  दायरा  and  आकार   of  viable resources , especially  लिये   अनुप्रयोग  such as home  हीटिंग  , opening a potential  लिये  widespread exploitation .
Geothermal wells release  ग्रीनहाउस  gases  फंस  deep  भीतर  the earth ,  लकिन  these  emissions   हैं  much  निम्नतर  per energy  ईकाई   than   those  of fossil fuels  .
As a  परिणाम  ,  geothermal   शक्ति   रै   the  potential to  सहायता  mitigate  वैश्विक  warming  if  widely deployed in place of fossil  fuels  .
the  Earth 's geothermal  संसाधन   हैं  theoretically more than  पर्याप्त  to  सप्लाई   मानवता   's  energy needs  ,  but only a very  छोटी  fraction  may  be  profitably  exploited  .
Drilling  और  exploration for  गहन   संसाधन  is  बहुत  expensive .
Forecasts  लिये   the   भविष्य  of geothermal  शक्ति  depend on assumptions about  प्रौद्योगिकी  , energy  कीमतें   ,   subsidies   ,   और   ब्याज  rates .
पायलट   कार्यक्रम  like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power Program show that customers  होता   be  willing to pay  a   छोटी  more for  a   बेदर्दी  energy source like  geothermal   .
लकिन  as a  परिणाम   of   सरकारी   assisted  research and industry experience , the cost  of   generating  geothermal power has decreased  by  25 %  over  the past  दो   दशकों  .
In  2001  , geothermal  उर्जा   लागत  between  दो  and ten  सेंट   प्रति   सम्पात  .
स्वामित्व  of  प्रॉपर्टी  may  be   निजी   ,  collective  ,   or  common  और  the  प्रॉपर्टी   may  be objects , land/real  एस्टेट   ,  or  बौद्धिक  property .
Determining ownership  in   विधि  involves  determining   जो  has certain rights and  कर्तव्य  over the property  .
These rights and  कर्तव्य   ,  sometimes called  a   'bundle   of   अधिकारों   '  ,  can   be  separated and held  by  different parties .
the  question  of   स्वामित्व  reaches back to  the  ancient philosophers ,  प्लेटो  and  अरस्तू  ,  जो  held  अलग  opinions  on   the  subject  .
प्लेटो  (  428/427   bc  –  348/347  BC  )   विचार  private property  निर्मित  divisive  inequalities  , while Aristotle ( 384  bc   –   322  BC ) thought private  प्रॉपर्टी  enabled people  to   प्राप्त  the full  लाभ  of  उनके   मजदूर   .
निजी  property  can   circumvent   कया   is  now referred  to   as   the  “ tragedy of the commons ” problem , where people  tend  to degrade common property more than they do  निजी   प्रॉपर्टी   .
दिए   a  short-sighted owner ,  however   ,  a private  प्रॉपर्टी  system can make  ये  tragedies worse—for  उदाहरण   ,   a   निजी  owner of a piece  of   oil-rich  property , depending on his worldview ,  might  be more interested in short-term financial gain  than  incremental  उपयोग  with an eye toward other  's   चिंताएं   (   e.g.  , those  of   भविष्य  generations , the  disenfranchised  , etc  .  )  .
जबकि  Aristotle  जायज  the  अस्तित्व   of  private  स्वामित्व   ,  he left  खोलें  questions of  (   1   )  how to allocate property  between  what is  निजी   और   आम  and ( 2 ) how to allocate the  निजी  property within  समाज   .
over   the  millennia , and across  संस्कृतियों   कया  can be property  और   कैसा  it  is  regarded  culturally  have  varied  widely .
Ownership is  the  basis for  अनेक   अन्य   अवधारणाओं   कि  form  the  foundations  of  ancient and modern societies  ऐसे  as money  ,  trade , debt , bankruptcy , the criminality of theft , and  निजी  vs. public property .
स्वामित्व  is the key building  ब्लाक   in  the  विकास   of   the  capitalist socio-economic  प्रणाली   .
आदम   स्मिथ  stated that one of the  पवित्र  laws  of  justice  थी  to guard a  व्यक्ति   's   प्रॉपर्टी  and possessions .
the   प्रक्रम   और  mechanics  of  ownership  हैं  fairly complex :  एक   can  gain ,  ट्रांसफ़र   और  lose  स्वामित्व  of property in  a  number  of  ways  .
To acquire  प्रॉपर्टी  one  can  purchase it with money  ,   व्यापार   it  for  अन्य   प्रॉपर्टी  ,  प्राप्त  it as a gift , steal it ,  ढूँढें  it , make , it or homestead  it   .
One can transfer or lose ownership  of  property by selling  it  for money , exchanging  it  for  अन्य  property , giving it  as  a gift  ,  being robbed of it , it  ,  or having it  stripped  from one 's ownership  through  legal means  ऐसे  as  eviction  ,  foreclosure  , seizure , or taking .
Ownership is  self-propagating  in  कि  the  मालिक   of  any property will also own  the  economic benefits  of   कि   प्रॉपर्टी   .
`` What 's My Name  ?  ''  is  a  सोंग  recorded  by  Barbadian recording  कलाकार  Rihanna , for her  पांचवां  studio album Loud ( 2010 )  .
featuring   अतिथि  vocals from Canadian  rapper  Drake , the  सोंग  was  released  as the  दूसरी  single  इससे  Loud on  अक्तूबर   29   ,  2010 through Def  jam  Recordings .
The R & B song was produced by  the  Norwegian production duo StarGate  ,   और  was  लिखा   by   the  duo along with Ester Dean , Traci Hale ,  और  Drake .
Lyrically  ,  it incorporates  विषयवस्तु   of  sexual intercourse  और  romance .
Music critics  दिया  the  सोंग  positive  समीक्षाएँ  , citing  it  some of Rihanna  's  best vocal work  to  date  ;   वहीँ   थी  a  तारीफ़   regarding  its  रोमांटिक  nature ,  as  well  as   इसके  sexual tones .
`` What 's  my  Name  ?   ''  was a commercial  कामयाबी  and  अव्वल   the  US Billboard Hot  100  chart ,  giving   रिहाना  her  तीसरा  number-one single in 2010 ,  as  well  as  her  आठवीं   overall   on   the  chart .
The  सोंग   भी   अव्वल   the   चार्ट   in  Hungary and the  संयुक्त   किंगडम   और   पहुँचे  the top five  in   कनाडा   ,  Ireland  ,  New Zealand , Norway and Slovakia .
The song  प्राप्त  a nomination at the 54th  ग्रैमी  Awards for  बेहतरीन   rap/sung  Collaboration .
An accompanying music  वीडियो   ,  directed  by   फिलिप   andelman  ,  portrays   a  romantic encounter  between  Rihanna and  ड्रेक   in   a  grocery store along with romantic scenes between the  जोड़ी   और  Rihanna  चलना  through  मैनहटन  's Lower East Side  .
`` What 's My  नाम   ?   ''  was promoted with live  प्रदर्शन  across  दोनो   पहलू  of the Atlantic , including Saturday  रात्रि  Live  in  America  और  the  श्रेणी  seven  finale  of The X  फ़ैक्टर  in the United  किंगडम  .
The latter performance  resulted   in  an investigation  इससे  the country 's media regulator , Ofcom  ,   लिये   the  raunchy  प्रकृति   of   रिहाना   's  outfit .
a   गणितीय  constant is  a   खास  number ,  प्रायः  a  रियल  number ,  कि   is  ``  significantly  interesting in some  रास्ता   ''  .
स्थिरांक  arise  in  many  अलग  areas  of  mathematics , with constants such  as  e ( mathematical constant ) |  और   pi|  occurring  in  such  विविध  contexts  as  geometry , number theory and calculus .
What it means  लिये  a constant  to  arise  ``  naturally ''  ,   और  what  makes   a  constant  ``  interesting ''  ,   is  ultimately a matter of  स्वाद   ,  and some mathematical constants are notable  अधिक  for  ऐतिहासिक  reasons than  लिये  their intrinsic mathematical  ब्याज   .
the   अधिक  popular constants have been  पढ़ाई   throughout  the ages  और  computed  to  many decimal places  .
सब   गणितीय  constants are definable numbers and usually  हैं  also computable  संख्याएँ  ( Chaitin 's constant  होने  a significant exception ) .
Elections to the United States  सीनेट  were held on November 2  ,   2010   ,  for  37  of the United  राज्य  Senate  's   100  seats  .
( A  खास  election  on   जनवरी  19  ,  2010 in Massachusetts was held  पहले  in the year  .  )
thirty-four  of the  सीटे  were  लिये  six-year  शर्तें  to the Senate 's `` class three  ''   ,  and  तीन   यहूद   खास   चुनावों   लिये  shorter  शर्तें  .
Of the 37 elections  ,   19   प्रदर्शित  incumbent  डेमोक्रेट  ( 7  of  whom retired  or  were defeated in  the   प्राथमिक   )  and  18   प्रदर्शित  incumbent  republicans   (   आठ  of  जिसको   रिटायर्ड   or  were  पराजित   in  the primary )  .
बाद  the previous elections  (   in  2008  )   ,  the United States  सीनेट   थी  composed  of   58  Democrats , 40 Republicans  ,   और  2  independents  who caucus  साथ   the  Democrats  .
republicans  won  चार  seats  आयोजित  by retiring Democrats  और   republicans   पराजित  two incumbent  डेमोक्रेट  .
This  थी   the  largest number  of  Republicans  gains  since the 1994 elections  और   भी  the first time since that election that Republicans successfully  defended   सब  of their  अपना   सीटे   .
इस   थी   the  fourth  लगातार  election of  ``   क्लास   3   ''   सीनेटरों   जहाँ   डेमोक्रेट  have failed to gain seats  और   the  third  लगातार  mid-term  चुनाव  held in  a   अध्यक्ष  's  पहला   पद  where  republicans  have picked-up seats  .
despite   ये   रिपब्लिकन   विन्स  , however , the Democrats retained a majority of  the  Senate  साथ   51  seats  प्लस   2  independents who caucus with them ,  compared  to the 47 Republicans .
a  solstice  is  an astronomical event  कि  occurs twice  प्रत्येक   साल  as the  सूर्य  reaches  इसके  highest or  न्यूनतम  excursion relative  to   the   celestial  equator on  the   celestial  sphere  .
As a result  ,   on   the   दिन  of the  संक्रांति  , the Sun appears  to  have  पहुँचे   इसके   उच्चतम  or lowest annual  ऊँचाई  in the sky above the  क्षितिज   at  local  सौर  noon .
The  शब्द   संक्रांति  is derived  इससे   the   लैटिन  sol  (   सूर्य  ) and sistere  (  to  स्टैंड   स्टिल  )  ,  because  at   the  solstices  ,  the  सूर्य  stands  स्टिल   in  declination  ;   कि  is , the  मौसमी  movement of the Sun 's path  (   as   देखी   इससे  Earth  )  comes  to  a  रोकें  before  reversing   दिशा  .
The  solstices  , together with the equinoxes  ,  are connected with the  सीज़न   .
In many  संस्कृतियों   the  solstices  चिह्नित   either  the beginning or the midpoint  of   शीत   और   गर्मियाँ  .
The term  संक्रांति  can  भी  be used in a  broader   भाव  , as  the  date  (  day  )  when  इस  occurs .
the  day of  the   संक्रांति   is   either   the  longest day  of   the   साल   (   in   गर्मियाँ   )   or  the shortest  दिन  of the year ( in winter  )  for any place outside of  the  tropics  .
Jerry  ली  Lewis (  born  September  29   ,   1935   )  is  an  American rock  और  roll and country music  singer-songwriter  and  pianist  .
He is  ज्ञात  by the  उपनाम  ``  the  Killer  ''   और   is  often viewed  as  “rock  &  roll  's  first great wild  man”  .
An  जल्दी  pioneer of  चट्टान  and  फेंकें  music ,  in  1956 Lewis made his  पहला  recordings at  सूर्य  Records .
``  Crazy  बाहें   ``   बेची  300,000 copies  in  the South  ,  but  it  was  उसके  1957  hit  `` Whole  lotta  Shakin '  going   on  `` that shot  लुईस  to fame worldwide .
लुईस  followed  इस  in  कि   वही  year when he recorded songs such as ``  ग्रेट  Balls  of   आग   ``  , ``  breathless  `` and ``  ऊँची  School  गोपनीय   ``  .
लुईस  sold more  रिकॉर्ड   than   एल्विस  Presley at this  समय   .
However  ,   लुईस  ' rock 'n  '  roll career faltered in  the  wake of his marriage  to  his  यंग  cousin  .
He  था  little success in  the  charts  following  the scandal and his popularity quickly faded  .
His  सजीव   प्रदर्शन  fees  plummeted  from  $   10,000   प्रति   रात्रि  to $ 250  .
In the meantime  he  was determined to gain back some of  उसके   लोकप्रियता   .
During the early 60’s he did  n't  have much chart success  साथ  few exceptions such  as   ``  What  'd  I Say  ``   .
उसके  live  प्रदर्शन   at  this time were increasingly  जंगली   और  energetic  .
His album Live  at   the   स्टार  Club ,  हैम्बर्ग  from 1964 is  प्रायः  regarded  by  many music  पत्रकारों   और  fans as one  of   the   wildest  and greatest rock and roll  कॉन्सर्ट  albums  कभी  .
After recording  गीतों  such  as   ``   i   'm  on Fire ''  लिये   अनेक  years with  छोटी   कामयाबी   ,  in  1968  Lewis made a  परिवर्तन   into  country music  और   था   हिट्स  with songs  ऐसे  as  ``  Another  प्लेस  , Another Time  ''   .
This  reignited   उसके  career  और  throughout the late  '60s   और   '70s  he  regularly   अव्वल  the country-western charts .
उसके  # 1 country  हिट्स  included  ``  To  मेक  Love Sweeter  लिये   तुम  ``  ,   ``  There Must  be   अधिक  to  प्रेम  Than This  ``  ,  ``  Would You Take Another Chance on  me   ``  and `` Me And  bobby  McGee `` .
लुईस   's  successes  जारी  throughout  the   दशक   और  he embraced  उसके  rock  'n  ' roll past with  गीतों  such  as   a   कवर  of the Big Bopper 's  ``   chantilly   फीता   ``  and  ``  Rockin  '   my  Life  दूर   ``   .
in   the  21st century Lewis continues to tour to audiences around the world  और  still releases new  एल्बम  .
One such album , titled  पिछला   man  Standing  ,   is   उसके   बेहतरीन   selling  to date at over  a  million  नक़ल  sold worldwide  .
This was followed by Mean Old Man  जिससे  has received some  of   the  best sales of Lewis’s career  .
Lewis  रै   था   a   दर्जन  gold records in  दोनो   चट्टान  and  देश   ,   जीती  several  ग्रैमी   पुरस्कार   ,  including a Lifetime Achievement Award .
Lewis was  inducted   into  the Rock and  फेंकें   हॉल   of  Fame  in   1986   ,   और  his  pioneering  contribution to  the  genre has been recognized  by   the  Rockabilly Hall  of  Fame  .
In 1989 ,  उसके  life was chronicled in the  फिल्म  Great  गेंदें  of  आग  , starring Dennis  quaid   .
In  2003   ,   रोलिंग   स्टोन   पत्रिका  listed  उसके  box set All Killer , No Filler :  the  Anthology number 242 on  उनके   सूची   of  ``  500  greatest  एल्बम  of all  समय   ``  .
in  2004 , they  क्रमित  him number  24   on  their  सूची   of  the 100 Greatest Artists  of   सब  Time .
Lewis is  the  last surviving member of Sun Records  '   लाख  Dollar  quartet  and the Class of  '55  album , which  भी   शामिल   जॉनी  Cash , Carl  perkins  , Roy Orbison and Elvis Presley  .
Henry Louis Stephens  ,  untitled watercolor (  1863   )  of a  man  reading a newspaper  साथ  headline ``  अध्यक्षीय  Proclamation / Slavery ''  .
the   emancipation  Proclamation was an order issued  to  all segments of  the  Executive branch  (   सहित  the  फौज  and  नेवी  ) of the United  राज्य  by President  अब्राहम  Lincoln  on   जनवरी   1  , 1863 ,  दौरान  the American  सिविल  War  .
it   थी   आधारित  on  the  president  's   संवैधानिक   प्राधिकार  as  कमांडर  in  मुख्य  of the  हथियारबंद  forces ; it was not a law passed by  कॉंग्रेस  .
it  proclaimed all  those  enslaved  in  Confederate territory to be  forever   फ़्री   ,   और  ordered the  फौज  ( and all segments of the  कार्यपालिका  branch  )   to   दावत  as  फ़्री   सब   those   enslaved  in ten  राज्य   कि  were still in  विद्रोह   ,   यूँ  applying  to  3.1 million  of  the 4 million slaves in the  u.s  .
The Proclamation could not be  enforced  in areas  स्टिल   अंतर्गत  rebellion , but  as  the army took control of  confederate  regions  ,  the slaves  in  those regions were emancipated rather than  लौटे  to  उनके  masters  .
इससे  20,000 to 50,000  पूर्व  slaves  in   regions  where  विद्रोह   था  already been subdued  यहूद   तत्काल  emancipated , and over 3  लाख   अधिक  were emancipated as the  संघ  army advanced .
the  Proclamation did not  लागू  to  the  five  स्लेव   राज्य   कि  were not in  विद्रोह  , nor  to  most  regions  already controlled  by  the  संघ  army ; emancipation there would  आइये  after separate state actions and/or the  दिसम्बर  1865  अनुसमर्थन  of the  तेरहवीं   amendment  , which made slavery illegal everywhere in  the  U.S .
the  Proclamation did  नहीं  compensate the owners  ,  did not itself outlaw slavery ,  और   किया   नहीं  make the ex-slaves ( called  freedmen   )  citizens  .
it  made  the  eradication  of  slavery an explicit war  लक्ष्य  , in  जोड  to the goal  of  reuniting the  संघ  .
On  सितंबर  22  ,   1862   ,   lincoln   था  issued a preliminary  उदघोषणा  that he would order the emancipation of  सब   स्लेव  in  कोई  state  of  the  confederate  States  of  America  कि   किया  not return to  संघ  control by January  1  ,  1863  .
None returned  ,   और  the order  ,  signed and  जारी   जनवरी  1  ,  1863 , took effect except in  स्थितियाँ   जहाँ  the  संघ  had already mostly  regained  control .
the  Proclamation outraged  श्वेत  Southerners who envisioned a race  युद्ध  ,  angered  some Northern Democrats , energized anti-slavery  शक्तियां  , and  weakened   शक्तियां  in Europe  कि  wanted to  intervene  to help the Confederacy  .
It  भी   lifted  the  आत्माओं  of African Americans both in the Southern  और  Northern  राज्य  , and led to many  स्लेव  escaping  उनके   मास्टर्स  and running  पीछे  Union  लाइनों  in order  to   have  their  emancipation  enforced  .
Sucker Punch is a 2011 American  काल्पनिक  action  फिल्मी  directed by  zack  Snyder  और   co-written  by  उसे  and Steve  शिबुया   .
It is  स्नाइडर  's first  फिल्मी   आधारित  on  an  original script .
the  film stars Emily Browning , Abbie  cornish  ,  जेना  Malone , Vanessa Hudgens  ,   जेमी  Chung  ,  and Carla Gugino .
The  कथानक  follows  the  fantasies of a young  स्त्री  who is  वचनबद्ध  to a mental  संस्था  , as  वो  makes a plan  to  escape  the  hospital  पहले  suffering a lobotomy .
The film was  released   in  both  conventional  and IMAX  थिएटर  in  the  United  राज्य  at  मध्यरात्रि  on March  25  , 2011  .
It received  generally  negative reviews from  आलोचकों   ,  but was a moderate box  दफ्तर  success .
सामने  and  वापस  of Canon  powershot  A95  ,  a  ठेठ  pocket-size digital camera
Haselblad 503CW with Ixpress V96C digital back , an example  of  a professional  डिजिटल  camera system
a  digital  कैमरा  ( or  digicam  )  is  a  कैमरा   कि  takes video  or  still photographs by recording  बिंब   on   an  electronic image sensor .
सबसे  cameras sold today are digital , and  डिजिटल   कैमरे  are incorporated into many devices  ranging  from PDAs and  मोबाईल  phones (  पुकारा   कैमरा  phones )  to  vehicles  .
Digital  और  film  कैमरे   share  an  ऑप्टिकल  system  ,  typically  using  a  लेंस   साथ   a  variable diaphragm to  फ़ोकस  light onto an  चित्र   पिकअप  device .
the  diaphragm and shutter  admit  the correct amount of light  to  the imager  ,  just  as   साथ  film  लकिन   the  image  पिकअप   यंत्र   is  electronic  बल्कि  than  रासायनिक   .
however   ,  unlike film  कैमरे  , digital cameras can  प्रदर्शक  images on a  स्क्रीन  immediately after being recorded  ,   और   स्टोर   और  delete images  इससे  memory .
अनेक   डिजिटल  cameras  can  also record moving  वीडियो   साथ  sound .
Some  डिजिटल   कैमरे   can   क्रॉप  and stitch pictures  और  perform  अन्य  elementary image editing  .
The  अंदर   और  front  of   a  Dell  poweredge   वेब   सर्वर  , a computer designed  लिये   रैक  mounting
अनेक   वेब   सर्वर  may  be   प्रयुक्त  for a high traffic  जालस्थल  ,  यहाँ  four Sun  आग  X4200 servers are  संस्थापित   साथ
Web server  can  refer  to  either the  हार्डवेयर  ( the  कंप्यूटर  )  or  the software ( the computer application ) that helps to deliver web content  कि  can be accessed through the Internet .
the   सबसे   आम   उपयोग  of  वेब   सर्वर  is to host websites , but there are other  उपयोग  such as  गेमिंग  ,  आंकड़ा   भंडार  or  कार्यशील   एंटरप्राइज़  applications  .
The American Red Cross  (   चाप   )   ,  also  ज्ञात  as  the   अमरीकी  National Red  क्रॉस  , is  a  humanitarian organization  कि  provides emergency assistance , disaster relief  और  education inside the United  राज्य  .
It is the  designated  U.S. affiliate  of  the International Federation  of  Red Cross  और   रेड   crescent  Societies .
आज  , in  जोड  to  घरेलू  disaster  राहत   ,  the American Red  क्रॉस  offers services  in   पाँच   अन्य  areas :  जातियाँ   सेवाएं  that help the needy  ;   संचार   सेवाएं  and  सुकून  for  सैन्य   सदस्यों   और  their family  सदस्यों  ; the collection  ,   प्रसंस्करण  and distribution of  रक्त  and blood  उत्पाद   ;  educational  कार्यक्रम  on preparedness , health  ,  and  सुरक्षा  ; and  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   राहत  and  विकास  programs .
जारी  a  कॉरपोरेट  charter by the  संयुक्त   राज्य   कॉंग्रेस   अंतर्गत  Title  36  of the  संयुक्त  States Code  ,   खण्ड  3001 ,  the   अमरीकी   नेशनल  Red  क्रॉस  is  governed  by volunteers and supported by community donations  ,  income  इससे  health  और   सुरक्षा  training and products , and  आय  from  रक्त  products .
The American Red Cross  is  headquartered  in   वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
the  Chairman  of  the Board  of  Governors , serving  उसके  second  three-year  term , is Bonnie McElveen-Hunter  .
The  वर्तमान   अध्यक्ष  and  मुख्य  Executive Officer is Gail  J.  McGovern .
A rooster  in  Kosovo
A rooster ,  प्रर्दशित  wattles  ,   earlobes  and  कंघी
a   मुर्गा   crowing  ( with audio )
right
A  मुर्गा  (  भी  called a cockerel  or  cock  )  is a  पुरूष  gallinaceous  बर्ड   .
It  प्रायः   refers  to a  पुरूष  chicken  (  Gallus  gallus  ) .
Immature male chickens less  than  one year  बूढ़ा  are called  cockerels   .
The  पद  `` rooster ''  originates   in  the United  राज्य  , and the term is  widely   प्रयुक्त  throughout  उत्तर  America , as well as Australia  और   नई  Zealand  .
in   the   संयुक्त   किंगडम  and  आयरलैंड  the  पुरानी  term `` cockerel  ''  is  अधिक  commonly  प्रयुक्त   .
`` Cock '' is  in  general use as the  नाम  for a  पुरूष  of other species of bird  ,   लिये   उदाहरण  ``  मुर्गा  sparrow '' .
``  Roosting '' is  the  action of  perching   aloft  to  नींद   at  night  ,  and is  किया  by both  लिंगों  .
The rooster is polygamous  ,  but can not guard several nests  of   अंडे  at once .
He guards  the  general  क्षेत्रफल   जहाँ  his hens are nesting , and will attack  अन्य  roosters that  डालें  his  territory  .
During the daytime ,  he  usually  sits  on a  ऊँची  perch , usually  3–5   फीट  off the ground to  serve  as a lookout for his flock  .
he   होगा  sound a  distinctive  alarm  कॉल  if predators are nearby  .
The Pokémon Trading Card Game  (  Pokémon  tcg  ) is a collectible card game based  on  the  पोकीमॉन  video  खेल  series ,  पहला  published in October 1996 by Media  फैक्टरी   in   जापानी   .
In the  us  , it was  initially   प्रकाशित   by   wizards  of  the  Coast  ,   the  company that produces  ,  in  दिसम्बर  1998 .
निन्टेंडो  took over publishing in June 2003 .
it   is  one  of  Nintendo  's   पिछला   बाकी   दमदार   कड़ी  to  इसके  heritage as a playing card  कम्पनी  .
Land Rover is a  अंग्रेजों   car  manufacturer with its headquarters in Gaydon  ,   warwickshire   ,  United Kingdom  जिससे  specialises in  four-wheel-drive   वाहनों  .
it  is part of the  जैगुआर  Land Rover group  ,   a   subsidiary  of Tata  मोटर्स  of  इण्डिया   .
it  is the second  oldest   four-wheel-drive   car   ब्रांड   in  the  संसार  ( after Jeep ) .
the   जमीन   रोवर  name was  originally  used by  the   रोवर  Company  लिये   एक  specific  गाडी  model  ,  named simply  the   जमीन  Rover , launched  by   रोवर  in  1948  .
Over the following years  it   विकसित  into  a  marque  encompassing   a  range of four-wheel-drive models , including  the  Defender , Discovery ,  freelander  , Range Rover , Range  रोवर  Sport  और  Range  रोवर   evoque  .
Land  रोवर्स  are  फिलहाल  assembled  in   the  company 's Halewood and  solihull   पौधे  ,  साथ   शोध  and development  लेने   प्लेस   at   jlr  's Gaydon and Whitley engineering centres  .
Land Rover sold 194,000 vehicles worldwide in 2009 .
Although the brand originates from the  असली   1948   मॉडल   ,  Land  रोवर   as  a company  रै  only existed since 1978  .
Prior  to  this ,  it  was  a   उत्पाद  line  of   the   रोवर  Company  जिससे  was subsequently  अवशोषित  into the  rover-triumph  division of the British Leyland Motor Corporation (  bl  ) following Leyland Motor Corporation ’s takeover of  रोवर  in 1967  .
the   जारी  commercial success of the original Land  रोवर  series  मॉडल  ,  और  latterly the  दायरा  Rover in  the   1970s   in  the  midst  of BL’s  खूब  documented business troubles prompted the establishment  of  a  पृथक  Land Rover  कम्पनी   लकिन  still  अंतर्गत  the  bl   छतरियाँ  ,  बाकी  part of  the  subsequent Rover Group in  1988  ,  अंतर्गत  the ownership  of  British  aerospace   बाद   the   remains   of  British Leyland  यहूद   टूटा   up  and  privatised  .
In 1994  रोवर   समूह  plc was  acquired  by BMW  .
In  2000   ,   रोवर  Group was broken-up  by   bmw  and Land  रोवर  was sold to  घाट  Motor  कम्पनी  , becoming part of its Premier Automotive Group  .
In 2006  घाट   खरीदा  the Rover brand from  bmw   लिये  around  £6  million  .
This  reunited   the   रोवर   और   जमीन   रोवर  brands  लिये  the first  समय   चूंकि   2000  when the  रोवर   समूह   थी  broken  up  by BMW .
In June 2008 ,  घाट   बेची  both  जमीन   रोवर  and Jaguar Cars to Tata Motors  .
इस   बिक्री  also included  the  dormant Rover brand
the  cover  of  the  पहला  DVD compilation  released  by  aniplex  of  the   नई  Captain Shūsuke Amagai arc
The  नवीं   ऋतु   of  the Bleach  दुश्मनी  series  is  named .
The series is based on Tite  kubo  's  manga  with  वही  name  .
The episodes  हैं   निर्देशित   by  Noriyuki  abe  and produced by TV Tokyo  ,  Dentsu  ,  and Studio  pierrot   .
The episodes ' plot focuses on the introduction  of   a  new Soul Reaper captain  ,   shūsuke  Amagai  ,  and  the  mystery surrounding  the  Kasumiōji clan  ,  one  of   the  families that  constitute  the  धामों  of Soul  समाज   .
The season  began   airing  on  अप्रैल  23  ,   2008  in  जापानी   on   tv   टोकियो  and  ended   on  October 7 ,  2008  .
The English  अनुकूलन  of the  ब्लीच  anime is licensed by Viz Media , and  इस   चाप  began airing on  अगस्त  28 ,  2010  on Cartoon Network 's Adult Swim  ,  and finished  on   जनवरी   29  , 2011 .
Five  dvd   compilations  ,  प्रत्येक  containing four episodes of the season  ,  have  महरूम  released  by  Aniplex  ;   the   पहला   dvd   संकलन  was  released   on  November 26 ,  2008   और   the  fifth on  कूच   25   ,   2009   .
a   dvd   बक्सा   होगा  be  प्रकाशित  by  viz  Media on  दिसम्बर  13 , 2011 .
The  एपीसोड  use  तीन  pieces  of  theme music : one opening theme and two closing themes .
The opening theme is ``  chu-bura   ``   by   kelun  .
the  first closing theme  is  `` Orange '' by Lil'B  ,  used for episodes  168  to 179  ,  and the second closing theme  is  `` Gallop '' by pe'zmoku  ,  used for  the   शेष   of  the  एपीसोड  .
The  विनियमन  of prostitution in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  is  नहीं  among the enumerated powers  of   the  federal government ;  अंतर्गत  the Tenth  amendment  to the  संयुक्त  States Constitution , it  is  therefore  exclusively  the domain of  the  states to permit , prohibit  ,   or  otherwise  विनियमित   वाणिज्यिक  sex  ,  except  insofar  as Congress  may   विनियमित  it  as   भाग   of  interstate commerce with  कानून   जैसे  the Mann Act  .
In most states  ,  prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the category of  पब्लिक   अनुक्रम  crime  ,  a crime that  disrupts   the  order  of  a community  .
It  थी   at  one time considered  to  be  a  vagrancy crime  .
Currently  ,   नेवाडा  is the  तभी  state to  allow   वेश्यालय  prostitution , the terms of which are stipulated  in  the  नेवाडा  Revised Statutes .
Only 8  काउंटी  currently contain active brothels .
All forms  of  prostitution  हैं  illegal  in  Clark County (  जिससे   contains  the Las  vegas–paradise   महानगर  area )  ,  Washoe County  (  which  contains  Reno  )  , Carson City , Douglas  काउंटी   ,   और  Lincoln  काउंटी  .
The  अन्य   काउंटी  theoretically  allow   वेश्यालय  prostitution ,  लकिन   कुछ  of these counties currently  have   no   क्रियाशील  brothels  .
गली   वेश्यावृति   ,  `` pandering ,  ''   और  living off  of   the  proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal  अंतर्गत   नेवाडा  law  ,   as   elsewhere  in the  देश   .
As with  अन्य   देशों  , prostitution  in   the   संयुक्त  States can be divided into three broad categories  :  street prostitution  ,   वेश्यालय   वेश्यावृति  , and  अनुरक्षण  prostitution .
The East  coast  of the United States , also known  as   the  Eastern Seaboard  or  the  अटलांटिक  Seaboard and commonly  shortened   to  East Coast  ,  refers to  the   easternmost  coast  of  the United  राज्य  along the Atlantic Ocean  .
The states  जिससे   have   shoreline  on the East Coast  हैं  , from  उत्तर  to  दक्षिण   ,  the U.S. states of  maine  , New  हैम्पशायर   ,   मैसाचुसेट्स   ,  Rhode Island ,  कनेक्टिकट   ,  New  यॉर्क   ,  New Jersey  ,   डेलावेयर  , Maryland ,  वर्जिनिया  , North Carolina  ,  South  कैरोलिना   ,  Georgia  ,   और   फ्लोरिडा   .
Richard  milhous   निक्सन   (   जनवरी  9 , 1913  –  April  22   ,  1994 )  थी  the  37th  President  of  the  संयुक्त  States  ,  serving  इससे  1969 to  1974  , when  he  became the only president to resign  the  office .
निक्सन  had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative  और  senator from California and  as   the  36th Vice President of  the   संयुक्त  States from 1953 to 1961  .
Nixon was  born  in  yorba  Linda ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   .
He  ग्रैजुएट  from Whittier College in  1934  and Duke University  स्कूल  of Law in  1937  ,  returning   to  California  to  practice  विधि  .
he  and his wife  ,  Pat Nixon ,  स्थानांतरित  to  वॉशिंगटन  to work for the federal  सरकारी  in 1942 .
He  subsequently  served in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   नेवी  during World  युद्ध   ii   .
Nixon  थी  elected in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   to  the  हाउस  of Representatives in 1946 and  to   the   सीनेट  in  1950   .
उसके   pursuit   of  the Alger Hiss  मामला  established his reputation as  a  leading  anti-communist  ,  और   elevated  him  to   नेशनल  prominence .
he  was the  कार्यशील  mate  of   ड्वाइट   D.   आइज़नहावर  ,  the   रिपब्लिकन   पार्टी  presidential  nominee  in  the  1952  चुनाव  .
Nixon served for eight  सालो   as  vice president  .
he  waged an unsuccessful  अध्यक्षीय  campaign  in  1960  ,  narrowly losing to  जॉन  F. Kennedy ,  और  lost a race for Governor  of   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  in  1962  .
In  1968  ,  he   भागा   again  for the presidency and was elected .
हालांकि   निक्सन  initially escalated America  's   भागीदारी   in  the  वियतनाम   युद्ध  , he  subsequently  ended  u.S.   भागीदारी  in 1973  .
निक्सन  's visit  to  the  लोगों  's Republic  of   चीन   in  1972  खोली   राजनयिक  relations between the two nations , and he initiated  détente   और   the  Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty  साथ  the  सोवियत  Union  the  same  साल   .
Domestically ,  उसके  administration  generally   embraced   नीतियों  that  transferred   शक्ति  from  वॉशिंगटन  to the  राज्य   .
Among  अन्य  things ,  he   शुभारम्भ  initiatives to fight  कर्कट  and illegal drugs  ,   imposed   मजदूरी   और  price  नियंत्रण  ,  enforced   desegregation   of   कुछ  Southern  स्कूलों   ,  and established  the   पर्यावरणीय  Protection  एजेंसी   .
हालांकि   he  presided over the lunar landings beginning  साथ   अपोलो  11  ,  he  scaled   वापस  manned space  खोजी   .
He  थी  re-elected  by   a   भूस्खलन   in   1972   .
निक्सन  's second  पद  saw an Arab oil  embargo  ,  the  resignation of  उसके  vice president  ,  Spiro  agnew  , and a continuing  श्रेणी   of  revelations  परिचय   the  Watergate scandal  और  other misconduct  by   सदस्यों  of the administration .
The scandal  escalated   ,  costing Nixon much of his  राजनैतिक   support   ,  and on August 9 , 1974  ,  he  resigned   in  the face of  लगभग   निश्चित   महाभियोग   और  removal from  दफ्तर  .
बाद  his  इस्तीफा  , he controversially received a  pardon   जारी  by his successor ,  जेराल्ड   घाट  .
In  रिटायरमेंट   ,  Nixon 's work as an elder  statesman   ,  authoring several  किताबे   और  undertaking many foreign trips ,  helped  to rehabilitate his  पब्लिक  image .
he  suffered a debilitating stroke  on  April 18 , 1994  ,   और   died  four  दिनों   बाद  at  the  age  of  81  .
Sertraline hydrochloride ( trade names Zoloft  ,   lustral  )  is  an  antidepressant   of  the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class .
It  थी  introduced to the market by  फाइजर  in 1991  .
sertraline   is  primarily prescribed for major  depressive  disorder  in  adult  outpatients  as well as obsessive–compulsive ,  दहशत   ,  and  सोशल  anxiety  विकार  in both  वयस्कों  and  children   .
in   2011   ,   it  was the second-most  विहित  antidepressant  on  the U.S. retail  मार्केट   ,  with  37,208,000  prescriptions .
the  efficacy  of  sertraline for depression  is  similar  to   कि  of  पुरानी  tricyclic antidepressants  ,   लकिन   इसके   पक्ष  effects are  much   कम  pronounced .
Differences  साथ  newer  antidepressants   हैं  subtler  और  also mostly confined  to  side  प्रभाव  .
Evidence suggests  कि  sertraline  may  work better than  fluoxetine   (  Prozac ) for some  subtypes  of depression .
Treatment  of  panic disorder with sertraline  परिणाम   in   a   significant  decrease  of   the   क्रमांक  of  दहशत  attacks and  in   improved   विशेषता  of  जीवन  .
For obsessive-compulsive  विकार  ,  sertraline  is not  as  effective  as   संज्ञानात्मक  behavioral therapy  ;  the  बेहतरीन   परिणाम  have been achieved by  combining   ये   दो   उपचार   .
हालांकि  approved  लिये   सोशल  phobia and  posttraumatic  stress disorder , sertraline  लीड  to only modest improvement in  ये  conditions .
Sertraline also  alleviates  the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric disorder  और   can   be  used  in  sub-therapeutic doses  or  intermittently for  इसके  treatment .
Sertraline  साझा  the common side effects  और  contraindications of  अन्य   ssris  ,  साथ   ऊँची  rates of nausea  ,   अतिसार   ,  insomnia , and sexual side effects ; however  ,  it does  नहीं   कारण   वज़न   लाभ  , and its effects  on   दोनो   संज्ञान  and vigilance  हैं   अपेक्षाकृत   mild  .
In  गर्भवती  women  लेने  sertraline  ,   the   ड्रग  was  उपस्थित  in  significant  concentrations in fetal  रक्त   ,   और  was  भी   संबद्ध   साथ   a   उच्चतर  rate of  विभिन्न   जनम  defects .
similarly   to   अन्य  antidepressants  ,  the  उपयोग   of  sertraline  लिये   अवसाद  may be associated  साथ  a  उच्चतर  rate of suicidality .
The  पाँच  Heartbeats  is  a 1991  musical  drama  फिल्मी  directed by Robert  टाउनसेंड   ,  who co-wrote  the  script with Keenan  आइवरी   wayans  .
Distributed by 20th  सदी   फॉक्स  , the  फिल्मी   's   प्रमुख   डाल  includes  टाउनसेंड  ,  माइकल  Wright , Leon Robinson , Harry  J.  Lennix , Tico  कुएं   ,  Harold Nicholas  of  the  निकोलस   भाइयो  ,  और  Diahann  कैरल  .
The plot of the film ( which is loosely  आधारित  on the lives of  अनेक  artists : The Dells , The  temptations  ,  चार   टॉप  , Wilson Pickett ,  जेम्स  Brown ,  फ्रेंकी  Lymon ,  sam  Cooke and  अन्य  ) follows  the   तीन   दशक   करियर  of the R & B  गायन   समूह  The  पाँच   heartbeats   .
the  film  depicts   the   वृद्धि  and fall of  a  Motown inspired soul act through  the  eyes  of  the  फिल्मी  's  प्रमुख  protagonist  ,  Donald ``  बतख  '' Matthews (  portrayed   by   टाउनसेंड  ) , who  serves  as a narrator  throughout  the film .
However ,  a   बहुमत   of  the  सिनेमा  is  प्रस्तुत   in  a  लगातार  time  लकीर  as  opposed  to traditional flash backs .
The film includes  a  significant amount of  असली   म्यूज़िक  conceived by  विभिन्न   कलाकारों  for  the  film 's soundtrack  ,   सहित  singles such  as  `` A Heart  is   a   हाउस   लिये  Love ``  ,   ``  We Have n't  समाप्त  Yet '' ,  और   ``  Nothing But Love  ''  .
The film was  released  to most North  अमरीकी  audiences  कूच  29  ,  1991 however it was not  बना  available  to   ऑडियंस  in other continents until  2002  when  a  DVD  थी   released  prior  to  another  dvd  release  in  2006  लिये   the  film  's   15th  anniversary .
The movie received  मिश्रित  reviews  इससे   आलोचकों  .
Secretariat  (  March 30 ,  1970   –   अक्तूबर   4  , 1989 )  थी   an   अमरीकी  Thoroughbred racehorse  कि  in  1973  became the  पहला  U.S . Triple Crown champion  in  25  सालो   .
He set race records in all three  कार्यक्रम  in the Series — the Kentucky  डर्बी  (  1:59.4  ) ,  the   preakness   stakes   (   1:53  ) , and the Belmont  stakes   (   2:24  ) — records that still stand today  .
he  is considered  to  be one  of   the  greatest  thoroughbreds   of  all  समय  .
In 1999 , ESPN  क्रमित  Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the  20th  century ,  the  highest ranking racehorse  on  the  सूची  URL_http .
he  ranked second behind Man  o   '   युद्ध   in   the  Blood-Horse 's  सूची  of  the   शीर्ष  100  u.S.  Racehorses  of   the  20th Century .
सचिवालय  was sired by  बिंदास   शासक   आउट  of  somethingroyal   ,   by   princequillo  .
He  थी  foaled  at   the  Meadow  in   कैरोलीन  County  ,   वर्जिनिया  .
Like his famous predecessor  man   o  ' War , Secretariat was  a   विशाल  chestnut colt and was given  the  same nickname  ,  ``  बिग   रेड  . ''
Secretariat 's grandsire ,  nasrullah  ,  is  also  the  great-great-grandsire  of  1977  ट्रिपल   क्राउन   विजेता  Seattle Slew .
Owned by Penny Chenery , he was trained  by  Lucien  laurin   और   मुख्यतः   ridden  by Canadian  jockey  Ron  turcotte   ,   साथ   साथ   प्रशिक्षु  jockey Paul Feliciano ( first  दो   दौड़   )   ,  and  दिग्गज   एडी   मेपल  ( last  रेस  ) .
he   raced  in Chenery 's Meadow  stable   's  blue and white  checkered   रंगों  and his  दूल्हे   थी   एडी  Sweat .
सचिवालय   stood  approximately tall  ,  and weighed , with a 75-inch  girth  , in his racing  प्रधान   .
A typical 12 V ,  40  Ah Lead-acid car  बैटरी
an  automotive battery  is   a   प्रकार  of  rechargeable   बैटरी  that supplies electric energy to an automobile  .
Usually this refers to an SLI  बैटरी  ( starting  ,  lighting  ,  ignition ) to power the starter motor , the  लाइट्स  , and  the  ignition  प्रणाली  of a vehicle’s engine .
Automotive SLI batteries are usually  lead-acid  type , and are made of six galvanic  कोशिकाएं   in  series to  provide   a   12   वोल्ट  system .
प्रत्येक  cell  provides  2.1 volts for  a  total of 12.6 volt  at   पूरा  charge .
Heavy  वाहनों   ऐसे   as  highway trucks or  tractors  , often  equipped   साथ   डीज़ल   इंजन   ,   may   have  two batteries in series for a 24 volt system , or  may  have  समानांतर  strings  of  batteries .
lead-acid   बैटरी   हैं  made up  of   प्लेटों  of  सीसे  and  पृथक  plates of lead  डाइऑक्साइड  ,  जिससे   हैं  submerged into an electrolyte solution  of   परिचय   38  %  sulfuric  acid  और   62   %  water .
This  कल्याणकारी  a chemical reaction that  रिलीज  electrons , allowing them to  प्रवाह  through  conductors   to  produce electricity .
As  the  battery  discharges  ,  the   एसिड  of the  electrolyte  reacts  साथ   the   सामग्री  of the  प्लेटों  , changing their  सतह  to  सीसे   सल्फेट  .
When the battery is recharged  ,  the chemical reaction is  reversed  : the  सीसे   सल्फेट  reforms  into   सीसे  dioxide and  सीसे  .
With  the   प्लेटों  restored  to   उनके  original condition , the process may  अभी  be repeated  .
बैटरी  recycling of automotive batteries  reduces  the need for resources required  लिये   manufacture   of  new batteries  ,   diverts   विषाक्त   सीसे  from landfills , and prevents risk of  improper  disposal .
full-time  employment  is   नियुक्ति  in  जिससे   a   व्यक्ति  works a minimum number  of   घंटों  defined  as   ऐसे  by  his/her  employer .
Full-time  नियुक्ति  often  आता  with  लाभ  that  हैं  not typically  offered   to   part-time   ,  temporary  ,  or  लचीली  workers , such as annual  छोड़  , sickleave  ,   और   स्वास्थ्य  insurance .
full-time   कार्य  are  प्रायः   माना   करियर   .
They  generally  pay more  than   part-time  jobs  ,  and usually carry more hours per week  .
the  Fair Labor Standards Act  (  FLSA  )  does not define full-time employment or  part-time   नियुक्ति  .
This is  a  matter generally to be  संकल्पित  by  the   नियोक्ता  (  us   विभाग   of   मजदूर   )  .
The definition  by   नियोक्ता  can  vary  and  is  generally  प्रकाशित  in a company  's   कर्मचारी  Handbook .
Companies  commonly  require  इससे  30–35 or 40  घंटों  per  सप्ताह   to  be defined as full-time and therefore eligible for benefits .
Full-Time  औकात   varies  between  कम्पनी  and is  प्रायः   आधारित   on   the  shift the  कर्मचारी   जरूर  work  दौरान  each work week .
The  ``   मानक  ''  कार्य  week consists of five eight-hour days ,  commonly  served between  9:00am  to 5:00PM totaling 40  घंटों  .
जबकि  a four-day week  generally  consists  of  four ten-hour  दिनों   ;  it may  भी  consist  of  as little as nine hours  लिये  a  कुल   of   a  36 hour work week  .
Twelve-hour shifts  हैं  often  तीन  days per week  ,  unless the  कम्पनी   रै   the  intention  of  paying  आउट   the  employee overtime .
Overtime  is   legally  paid  आउट   anytime   an   कर्मचारी   works  more than  40   घंटों  per week .
the  legal minimum for overtime starts at  आधार  Pay +  one-half   .
The  increased  payout  is   माना  to  compensate  slightly  लिये  the  increased  fatigue  जिससे  a person experiences  on  such long  शिफ्ट   .
Shifts can also  be  very  irregular   ,   as   in  retail ,  लकिन   हैं  still full-time  if   the   जरूरी  number of  घंटों  is reached  .
There  हैं   कुछ   परिस्थितियों   जहाँ  a  व्यक्ति   जो  needs full-time  कार्य  is dropped  to  part-time ,  जिससे  is sometimes  a  form of constructive dismissal to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker  .
Seahorse is the title given  to   54  species  of  marine  मछली   in   the   genus  Hippocampus .
`` Hippocampus  ''   आता  from the Ancient  यूनानी  hippos meaning  ``  horse ''  और  kampos meaning `` sea monster  ''   .
The  नियंत्रित  Substances  अधिनियम  ( CSA  )   थी  enacted into law by the  कॉंग्रेस  of the  संयुक्त  States  as   शीर्षक  II of  the  Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention  और  Control Act of  1970   .
The CSA is  the   संघीय  U.S. drug  नीति   अंतर्गत  which  the  manufacture , importation  ,  possession  ,  use and distribution  of   निश्चित  substances  is   regulated  .
The  अधिनियम  also served as  the   नेशनल   implementing  legislation  लिये   the  Single  सम्मेलन  on Narcotic  दवाएँ   .
The legislation created five  schedules   (  classifications )  ,  with varying  योग्यता  for  a  substance to  be  included in each  .
Two  संघीय  agencies , the Drug  प्रवर्तन  Administration  और  the Food  और  Drug  प्रशासन   ,  determine which  substances  are added to or removed from the  विभिन्न   schedules  , though the  statute   passed   by   कॉंग्रेस  created the  आरंभिक  listing ,  और   कॉंग्रेस   रै   sometimes  scheduled  अन्य   substances  through  विधान  such  as   the  Hillory  J.  Farias and Samantha Reid  date-rape  Prevention Act  of   2000  ,  जिससे  placed  गामा   hydroxybutyrate  in  अनुसूची  I  .   वर्गीकरण   निर्णय  are required to be made  on  criteria  सहित  potential for abuse  (  an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical  उपयोग  in  उपचार   in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   ,  and international treaties  .
माया  numerals
Maya numerals are  a   vigesimal   (   आधार  -  बीस  )  numeral  system used  by   the   pre-columbian   माया  civilization .
The  numerals  are  बना   up   of  three  प्रतीकों  ;  शून्य   (  shell  आकार  ) ,  एक   (   a   बिन्दु  )  और  five (  a   बार   )   .
लिये  example ,  तेरह  is written  as  three dots in a horizontal row above two horizontal  लाइनों  stacked  ऊपर  each  अन्य  .
Lyndon Baines Johnson (  अगस्त  27 , 1908  –   जनवरी  22 , 1973 )  ,   प्रायः  referred to as  lbj  , was  the  36th President of  the  United States ( 1963–1969 ) , a  स्थिति   he  assumed after  उसके  service  as  the 37th Vice President  of  the United  राज्य   (   1961–1963  ) .
He is  एक  of only four  लोगों  who  परोसा  in all four  निर्वाचित  federal offices  of  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  : Representative ,  सीनेटर   ,   वाइस  President  ,  and  अध्यक्ष  .
जॉनसन   ,  a Democrat  इससे  Texas , served as a United States  प्रतिनिधि  from  1937–1949   और  as a Senator  इससे  1949–1961 ,  सहित  six years as United  राज्य  Senate  बहुमत   नेता  , two as  सीनेट   अल्पसंख्यक  Leader and two  as   सीनेट   बहुमत   चाबुक   .
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic  नामांकन  in 1960  ,  Johnson  थी   पूछा  by John F.  कैनेडी   to   be  his  कार्यशील   mate   लिये  the 1960  अध्यक्षीय  election  .
Johnson  succeeded  to  the   प्रेसिडेंसी  following the  हत्या  of  जॉन   F.   कैनेडी   on   नवम्बर  22 , 1963  ,   समाप्त  Kennedy  's  term and was  निर्वाचित   अध्यक्ष  in  उसके  own right  ,   जीतना   by  a  विशाल  margin over  बैरी  Goldwater in  the  1964  चुनाव  .
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic  पार्टी  and  as   अध्यक्ष  , he was responsible  लिये   डिजाइनिंग   the   ``  Great  समाज   ``  legislation that  शामिल   कानून  that  upheld  civil rights ,  पब्लिक  broadcasting , Medicare  ,  Medicaid  ,  environmental protection  ,  aid to education  ,   और  his `` War on Poverty  .  ''
Johnson was  प्रसिद्ध   लिये  his domineering personality and  the   ``   जॉनसन   उपचार  ,  ''  his  coercion  of  शक्तिशाली   राजनेता   in  order to  अग्रिम   विधान  .
Meanwhile  ,   जॉनसन  escalated American involvement in  the  Vietnam War , from  16,000   अमरीकी  advisors/soldiers  in  1963 to  550,000  combat  सैनिकों  in early 1968 , as American casualties soared and the peace process  bogged   bas  .
The  भागीदारी   stimulated  a large  एंग्री  antiwar movement  आधारित  especially  on  university campuses in  the  U.S. and  विदेश   .
Summer  दंगे  broke out in most major  शहरों  after 1965 , and crime  दरों   soared  ,  as   उसके   प्रतिद्वंद्वियों   उठाया  demands for  ``  law and order ''  नीतियों  .
The Democratic Party  विभाजित  in  अनेक  feuding  गिरोहों  , and  बाद   जॉनसन   किया   poorly  in  the  1968 New  हैम्पशायर  primary ,  he   ended  his bid for reelection  .
रिपब्लिकन  Richard  निक्सन  was elected  to   सफल  him .
Historians  argue   कि   जॉनसन  's  प्रेसिडेंसी  marked the  शिखर  of modern liberalism in  the  United States  बाद   the  New Deal era .
जॉनसन  is ranked  favorably  by some historians  क्युकी  of  उसके  domestic  नीतियों  .
Progesterone  भी  known as  p4   (  pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione )  is  a C-21 steroid hormone involved in the  मादा  menstrual  साईकिल   ,   गर्भावस्था  ( supports gestation )  और  embryogenesis  of   इंसानो   और  other species .
Progesterone  belongs   to  a class of hormones called  progestogens  ,  और   is  the major naturally  occurring  human  progestogen  .
बिग  Bird  is  a protagonist of the  children   's  television show Sesame Street  .
officially  performed by Caroll Spinney  चूंकि  1969 , he  is  an eight-foot two-inch  (   249  cm  )  tall  उज्जवल   primrose-yellow  bird .
He  can   रोलर   स्केट  , ice skate  ,   नृत्य   ,  sing , write  काव्य   ,  draw  और  even ride a unicycle .
But despite this  चौड़ी   सरणी   of  talents , he is  prone  to  बारंबार   misunderstandings   ,  on one  अवसर   भी  singing the  वर्णमाला  as  एक  big  long   शब्द   (   इससे  the song  पुकारा   ``   abc-def-ghi   ,  ''  सुनाया  `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz  ''  )  ,  pondering what it  could   कभी   औसत   .
He lives in a large  घोंसला  behind the 123 Sesame  गली   brownstone   और   रै  a  टेडी  bear named Radar .
Webtrends  is   a   निजी   कम्पनी  headquartered  in   पोर्टलैंड  , Oregon ,  संयुक्त  States .
It provides  वेब  ,  सोशल   ,  and  मोबाईल  analytics  और  other  तन्त्र   समाधान  related to marketing  प्रज्ञा  .
the  company was founded in 1993 and  अभी  serves more than  10,000  large and  छोटी  firms. < ref name='Intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21  '  >
the  Second Crusade ( 1145–1149 )  थी  the second major crusade  शुभारम्भ   इससे  Europe .
the  Second  crusade   थी  started in response  to  the  पतन  of the County  of  Edessa the previous year  to   the  forces  of  Zengi  .
the  county  था  been  संस्थापित   दौरान  the  पहला   crusade   (   1096–1099  )  by   baldwin  of  boulogne  in 1098 .
जबकि  it was the  पहला  Crusader state  to  be  संस्थापित   ,  it was  भी  the first  to  fall .
The Second Crusade was announced by Pope Eugene III  ,  and was  the   पहला  of  the   क्रूसेड  to be  led  by European  किंग्स  , namely Louis  सात   of   फ़्रांस  and Conrad III of Germany , with  सहायता   इससे  a number  of   अन्य   यूरोपीय  nobles .
The armies of  the  two  किंग्स  marched separately across Europe .
After crossing  बीज़ान्टिन  territory  into  Anatolia ,  दोनो  armies  यहूद  separately  पराजित   by   the  Seljuq Turks .
The main Western Christian source ,  odo   of   deuil   ,  and Syriac  ईसाई  sources claim  कि  the Byzantine emperor  मैनुएल   i  Comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders '  प्रगति  , particularly in Anatolia  जहाँ   he  is alleged  to   have  deliberately ordered  turks  to  आक्रमण  them .
Louis and Conrad  और   the  remnants  of  their  सेना  reached Jerusalem  और  ,  in  1148  ,   participated  in  an  ill-advised  आक्रमण  on Damascus .
the   crusade  in  the   ईस्ट   थी   a   विफलता  for the crusaders and  a   ग्रेट  victory for  the   मुसलमान   .
It would  ultimately   have   a  key influence  on   the  fall of  जेरूसलम  and give rise to  the   तीसरा   crusade   at   the   समाप्त   of  the 12th  सदी  .
the   तभी  success  of   the  Second Crusade  आए   to   a   संयुक्त  force of 13,000  फ्लेमिश  ,  frisian  , Norman  ,  English  ,   स्कॉटिश   ,  and  जर्मनी   crusaders  in 1147 .
यात्राएं  from England ,  by  ship , to the  पावन  Land  ,  the  फौज  stopped  और   helped   the  smaller  (  7,000 ) Portuguese army in the  कैप्चर  of Lisbon , expelling its Moorish occupants .
Wal-Mart Stores  ,  Inc. ( )  ,   ब्रांडेड  as Walmart , is an American  बहुराष्ट्रीय  retail corporation that  रनों  chains of  विशाल   छूट   विभाग  stores  और  warehouse stores .
The  कम्पनी  is  the  world 's third largest  पब्लिक   निगम  , according to  the  Fortune  वैश्विक  500 list in 2012 , the  biggest  private employer in  the   संसार  with over  दो  million employees , and is the largest  रिटेलर   in  the world .
Walmart  remains  a  family-owned  business  ,  as the company is  नियंत्रित  by  the  Walton  परिवार  , who own a 48 percent stake  in  Walmart .
it  is  भी  one  of   the  world 's most  मूल्यवान  companies .
The company was  संस्थापित  by Sam  वाल्टन  in 1962 , incorporated on October 31  ,  1969  ,  and publicly  traded   on  the New York Stock Exchange  in  1972  .
It is headquartered  in   bentonville  ,  अरकंसास   .
walmart  is  भी   the  largest grocery  रिटेलर  in  the   संयुक्त  States  .
In  2009   ,  it generated 51 percent of  इसके  US  $  258 billion sales in  the   u.S.  from grocery  कारोबार  .
it  also  owns   और  operates  the  Sam  's   क्लबों   खुदरा  warehouses in North  अमेरिका  .
by   1988   ,  Wal-Mart was  the   सबसे   लाभप्रद   रिटेलर  in the  us  ,  और  by  नवम्बर  1990 ,  it  outsold  k-mart   .
By 1991 it outsold Sears in retail , making it America  's   largest  retailer ,  a   भेद   it  still  holds   .
walmart   रै  8,500 stores  in   15  countries , under 55  अलग  names .
the   कम्पनी  operates under  the   walmart  name in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  , including the 50 states and  प्यूर्टो  Rico  .
it  operates  in  Mexico  as   walmex  ,  in   the   संयुक्त  Kingdom  as  Asda  ,  in Japan  as  Seiyu ,  और   in   इण्डिया  as Best Price  .
it  has wholly  स्वामित्व  operations  in  Argentina , Brazil  ,   और  Canada .
walmart  's  निवेश   बाहर  North America have  था   मिश्रित  results : its operations in  the  United  किंगडम   ,   दक्षिण  America , and  चीन   हैं  highly  कामयाब   ,   whereas   ventures  in Germany and  दक्षिण   कोरियाई  were  unsuccessful  .
Robert  विलियम  Gary Moore  (  4  अप्रैल   1952  –  6   फ़रवरी   2011  ) ,  थी   a  Northern Irish musician ,  सबसे  widely recognised  as  a  सिंगर   और  guitarist .
in   a   करियर   डेटिंग   वापस   to   the  1960s  ,  Moore  निभाई   साथ  artists  सहित   फिल   lynott   और  Brian  downey  during  उसके  teens  ,  leading him to memberships with the Irish  bands   स्किड   पंक्ति  and  पतला  Lizzy on three separate  अवसरों   .
मूर   साझा  the stage with such blues  और   चट्टान  luminaries as B.B .  किंग   ,   अल्बर्ट  King , Colosseum  ii  ,  जार्ज   हैरिसन   और  Greg  झील  , as well as having a  कामयाब   सोलो  career  .
he  guested on  a  number  of   एल्बम  recorded by  ऊँची  profile musicians  ,   सहित  a  कैमियो  appearance playing the lead  गिटार   सोलो  on ``  वो  's  my  Baby `` from  traveling   wilburys  Vol . 3  .
An  उदाहरण  of  रैक   आरोहित   सर्वर
A web hosting service is a type  of  Internet  होस्टिंग  service  कि  allows  individuals  and organizations  to   मेक   उनके   जालस्थल  accessible via the World Wide  वेब  .
वेब  hosts are  कंपनियाँ  that provide space  on  a server  स्वामित्व  or leased for use by clients , as  खूब   as  providing  अंतरजाल   कनेक्टिविटी  ,  typically  in  a  data center .
वेब  hosts can  भी  provide data  बीच   स्पेस   और   कनेक्टिविटी   to  the Internet  लिये  other servers located  in  their data center , called  colocation  ,  भी  known  as  Housing  in  Latin America or France  .
the  scope of web hosting  सेवाएं  varies greatly .
The  सबसे  basic is web  पेज   और  small-scale file  होस्टिंग  ,  जहाँ  files  can  be uploaded via File Transfer  प्रोटोकॉल   (   एफटीपी  ) or a Web interface  .
The files  हैं  usually delivered to  the  Web `` as  is   ''  or with minimal  प्रसंस्करण  .
अनेक  Internet  सेवा  providers (  isps  ) offer this service free to subscribers  .
individuals   और   संगठन  may  भी  obtain  वेब   पेज  hosting from alternative service providers .
Personal  वेब   साईट  hosting  is  typically free , advertisement-sponsored ,  or   inexpensive  .
Business web  साईट   होस्टिंग  often has a higher expense depending upon the size  और   प्रकार  of  the   जालस्थल  .
Single page  होस्टिंग  is  generally  sufficient for personal  वेब   पृष्ठों   .
A complex site calls for a more  व्यापक  package that provides database  support  and application development platforms ( e.g  .  PHP ,  जावा  ,  माणिक्य  on Rails , ColdFusion  ,   or   asp.net  )  .
These  सुविधाएं  allow customers  to  write or install scripts  लिये   अनुप्रयोग   जैसे   forums  and content  प्रबन्धन  .
Also ,  सुरक्षित  Sockets  परत  ( SSL ) is typically  प्रयुक्त  for e-commerce  .
the  host may  भी   provide   an  interface  or  control  फलक  for managing  the   वेब  server  और  installing  स्क्रिप्ट  , as well  as   अन्य  modules and  सेवा   अनुप्रयोग  like  e-mail  .
कुछ   होस्ट  specialize  in   निश्चित  software  or  services (  e.g  . e-commerce ) ,  जिससे  are  commonly  used  by   larger   कंपनियाँ   कि   outsource   संजाल  infrastructure .
Obstetrics (  इससे   the   लैटिन  obstare , ``  to   स्टैंड  by  ''  ) is  the   चिकित्सा   specialty   dealing   साथ  the  परवाह   of  all women 's reproductive tracts and their children during  गर्भावस्था   (  prenatal  काल   )  , childbirth and  the   postnatal   काल  .
Many obstetricians are  भी   स्त्रीरोग   ,  meaning  वे   perform   in  both specialties  .
In the  संयुक्त  States , these physicians are commonly  referred   to  as OB/GYNs  .
The  राइट  brothers  ,  Orville (  अगस्त  19 ,  1871   –  January 30  ,  1948 ) and Wilbur  (  April 16 , 1867  –  May 30 ,  1912   )  , were two  अमरीकी  brothers , inventors ,  और  aviation pioneers who were credited with  inventing  and  भवन   the  world 's first  कामयाब  airplane and making  the  first controlled  ,  powered and sustained  heavier-than-air   इंसान  flight , on December  17  ,  1903   .
From  1905   to  1907 ,  the  brothers developed  उनके  flying machine into  the  first practical fixed-wing aircraft .
हालांकि   नहीं  the first to build  और   मक्खी  experimental  वायुयान  , the Wright brothers  यहूद  the first  to  invent  वायुयान  controls that made fixed-wing  संचालित  flight possible .
The  भाइयो  ' fundamental  भेदन   थी  their  आविष्कार  of three-axis control  ,  which enabled  the   पायलट  to  steer   the   वायुयान  effectively and to  maintain  its  संतुलन   .
This method  became   मानक   और   remains   मानक  on fixed-wing  वायुयान  of all  kinds   .
इससे   the  beginning  of  their  aeronautical  work , the Wright brothers  केन्द्रित   on  developing a  विश्वसनीय   विधि   of  pilot control  as   the  key to solving `` the  उड़ती   प्रॉब्लम  '' .
This  दृष्टिकोण   differed   significantly  from other  experimenters  of the time who  put   अधिक  emphasis on  विकासशील  powerful engines .
Using a small  homebuilt   हवा  tunnel ,  the  Wrights  भी   एकत्रित   अधिक  accurate data  than  any before , enabling them  to   डिज़ाइन  and  निर्माण  wings and propellers that  यहूद   अधिक   कुशल  than  कोई  before .
उनके  first  u.S.  patent  ,  821,393  ,  did not claim invention  of   a   उड़ती  machine ,  लकिन  rather ,  the  invention of  a  system  of  aerodynamic control that  manipulated   a   उड़ती  machine 's surfaces .
They  gained   the  mechanical skills essential for their  कामयाबी  by working  लिये   सालो  in their  दूकान  with  मुद्रण   दबाता   ,  bicycles  ,  motors  ,   और   अन्य   मशीनरी  .
उनके  work with bicycles in particular influenced their belief  कि  an  अस्थिर  vehicle like  a  flying  यंत्र  could  be  controlled and  संतुलित  with  अभ्यास  .
इससे  1900 until their  पहला  powered  फ़्लाइट   in  late  1903   ,   वे   conducted  extensive glider  परीक्षण  that also developed their  कौशल   as   पायलटों  .
उनके   सायकिल  shop employee Charlie Taylor became an important part of  the  team , building their first aircraft  इंजन   in   बंद  collaboration  साथ   the  brothers  .
the   राइट  brothers ' status as  आविष्कारक  of  the   वायुयान  has been subject  to   counter-claims   by   विभिन्न   पार्टियों  .
much   विवाद  persists  over  the many competing  दावा  of early aviators .
America  's  Next Top  मॉडल   ,   साईकिल   12  is  the  twelfth cycle of America 's  अगला  Top Model and the sixth season to  एयर  on  the   cw   संजाल   .
it   premiered   on   कूच  4  ,  2009 .
the   साईकिल  's catch phrase  is   ``  Get In The  मोड़ें   .  ''
The  साईकिल   's  promotional  सोंग  is Lady Gaga 's ``  the  Fame  ''  .
the  prizes for this  साईकिल   are:
a  modeling contract with Elite Model Management .
A fashion spread  और  cover in  सत्रह  .
A  100,000   अनुबंध   साथ   covergirl  cosmetics .
The first  हाफ  of the cycle took place in  नई  York City  ,  moving the  दिखाएँ  back  इससे  Los  एंजिल्स   पिछला  season .
the  international  गंतव्य   लिये   इस  cycle  is  São Paulo  ,  Brazil , the series first  विज़िट  to South  अमेरिका  .
The number of girls was reduced to  13   ,  the first time  चूंकि   साईकिल   9  , after  होने  maintained at 14 in the  पिछला   दो   चक्र  .
This  थी  the  पिछला  time  paulina  Porizkova  participated  as  न्यायधीश   .
The winner  थी   20-year-old  Teyona  एंडरसन  from Woodstown ,  नई  Jersey  .
इस  season  averaged  4.35  लाख   दर्शक  per  एपीसोड  .
exxon   mobil  Corporation , or ExxonMobil , is  an   अमरीकी  multinational  आयल  and  गैस   निगम  headquartered  in   इरविंग   ,  Texas  ,   संयुक्त  States  .
it  is  a  direct  वंशज   of  John D.  rockefeller  's Standard Oil company ,  और  was formed  on  November  30   ,  1999 ,  by   the  merger of Exxon  और  Mobil  .
it  is affiliated  साथ  Imperial  आयल   जिससे  operates in Canada  .
exxonmobil   is  the world 's  largest  company by revenue  और  in 2013 , became  the  largest publicly traded  कम्पनी  by  मार्केट  capitalization  in   the   संसार   .
The  कम्पनी  is  क्रमित   #   5  globally in  फोर्ब्स  Global  2000   सूची  in  2013   .
Exxon Mobil 's reserves were  72  billion oil-equivalent barrels at the end of 2007 and ,  at  then ( 2007 ) rates  of  production ,  हैं   अपेक्षित  to last over  14   सालो   .
साथ   37  oil refineries  in  21  देशों  constituting a  संयुक्त   रोज़   शोधन   क्षमता  of ,  exxon  Mobil is  the  largest refiner  in   the  world , a title that was  भी  associated with Standard  आयल  since its incorporation  in  1870  .
ExxonMobil is  the   largest  of  the  world 's supermajors  साथ   रोज़   उत्पादन  of  3.921  million  boe   (   barrels  of  आयल   समतुल्य   )  .
In 2008 , this was approximately  3  %  of  world  उत्पादन  ,  जिससे  is  कम  than  अनेक  of  the   largest  state-owned  पेट्रोलियम  companies .
When ranked by oil  और   गैस  reserves it is 14th  in   the  world  साथ   कम   than  1 %  of  the total  .
A  2012  article in  the  Daily Telegraph  says   कि  ExxonMobil has `` grown  into  one  of   the   planet’s  most hated  corporations   ,  able  to   determine   अमरीकी  foreign  नीति  and  the   भाग्य   of  entire nations  ''   .
In terms  of  its environmental  रिकार्ड  , ExxonMobil  increasingly   drills  in terrains leased to them by  dictatorships  ,  ऐसे  as those in Chad and Equatorial  गिनी   .
Lee Raymond , the corporation’s chief executive  जबतक   2005   ,  was ``  notoriously  sceptical  परिचय   जलवायु  change and disliked  सरकारी   हस्तक्षेप  at  कोई   स्तर   ''  .
the   कम्पनी   थी  widely criticized for  इसके  slow response to cleaning  इसके  1989 Valdez  आयल   spill  in Alaska .
This article is  परिचय  the Globe  थिएटर  of  शेक्सपियर  .
लिये  the modern reconstruction in London , see Shakespeare 's Globe .
लिये  other uses  ,  see  ग्लोब  Theatre (  बहुविकल्पी  )  .
The  ग्लोब  Theatre  थी  a  थिएटर  in London associated with  विलियम   शेक्सपियर  .
It was built  in   1599  by  शेक्सपियर  's  playing   कम्पनी  ,  the  Lord  चेम्बरलेन   's   मेन   ,   on  land  स्वामित्व   by   थामस   brend   और  inherited by  उसके   बेटे  , Nicholas Brend  और   पोता  Sir Matthew  brend  , and  थी  destroyed  by  fire on 29  जून  1613  .
a   दूसरी  Globe Theatre was  निर्मित  on  the   वही  site by  जून   1614  and closed  in   1642  .
A  आधुनिक  reconstruction  of   the   ग्लोब  ,  नामित   ``  Shakespeare  's  Globe `` , opened  in  1997 approximately  इससे  the site of the  असली  theatre .
it  's a  अद्भुत   जीवन  is a 1946 American Christmas  नाटक  film produced and directed  by   फ़्रैंक  Capra ,  आधारित   on   the  short  स्टोरी  `` The Greatest Gift `` , which  फिलिप  Van  doren  Stern  लिखा  in  1939  and privately published in 1945  .
the   फिल्मी  is  माना  one of the  सबसे   loved   films   in  American  सिनेमा   और   रै  become traditional viewing during the Christmas season ,  alongside  popular classics  ऐसे   as   चार्ल्स  Dickens ' A  क्रिसमस  Carol  .
The film  सितारों   जेम्स   स्टीवर्ट   as   जार्ज  Bailey  ,   a  man  जो  has given  up  his dreams in order to help others  और  whose imminent suicide  on  Christmas  संध्या   brings  about the  हस्तक्षेप   of   उसके  guardian angel  ,  Clarence  odbody  ( Henry Travers ) .
Clarence  shows   जार्ज  all  the  lives he has touched and how  अलग  life in his community of Bedford  जलप्रपात   होता   be   था  he  never   महरूम   born  .
despite   initially  performing poorly at the box office  due  to high production costs and stiff competition  at   the  time  of  its release ,  the  film  रै  come  to  be  regarded   as  a  क्लासिक  and is  a   स्टेपल  of Christmas television  around  the  संसार   .
theatrically   ,  the film 's break-even  पाइंट  was actually  $  6.3  लाख  , approximately twice  the   उत्पादन   लागत  ,  a  figure it never  आए   बंद   to   achieving   in  its  आरंभिक   रिलीज   .
An  appraisal   in  2006  reported   :   ``   हालांकि  it was  नहीं   the  complete  बक्सा   दफ्तर   विफलता   कि  today everyone  मानता  ... it was initially a major disappointment and  पुष्टि   ,  at  तनिक  to the studios ,  कि  Capra  थी   no  longer  सक्षम   of  turning  आउट  the populist  सुविधाएँ   कि   बना  his films  the  must-see , money-making  कार्यक्रम  they once were . ''
The film  थी   मनोनीत  for five Oscars  और  has  महरूम  recognized by the  अमरीकी  Film  संस्थान  as  एक  of the 100  बेहतरीन   अमरीकी   films  ever made ,  रखकर  number  11   on  its initial  1998   महानतम   फिल्म  list ,  और  would  भी   प्लेस  number  एक   on  its list of the most  प्रेरणादायक  American  films   of  all time .
Data Warehouse  अवलोकन
In computing  ,   a   आंकड़ा   गोदाम  or enterprise data warehouse (  dw  , DWH , or  edw  ) is a database  प्रयुक्त  for reporting  और  data  विश्लेषण   .
It is a central  repository  of  आंकड़ा  which is created by integrating  आंकड़ा  from  एक  or  अधिक  disparate sources .
Data warehouses store current as well as historical  आंकड़ा   और  are used for creating  चर्चित   रिपोर्ट्स  for senior  प्रबन्धन   रिपोर्टिंग   ऐसे  as annual and  त्रैमासिक  comparisons  .
The data stored in  the  warehouse are uploaded  इससे  the operational systems ( such  as  marketing ,  बिक्री  etc.  ,  shown  in   the  figure  to   the  right  )  .
The data  may  pass through  an  operational data store for  अतिरिक्त   परिचालन  before  वे  are used in  the  DW  लिये  reporting .
the   ठेठ   etl   -आधारd   आंकड़ा  warehouse  उपयोग  staging , data integration ,  और   अभिगम  layers  to  house its  कुंजी   कृत्यों   .
The  स्टेजिंग   परत   or   स्टेजिंग   डेटाबेस   स्टोर्स  raw data  निकाली  from  प्रत्येक  of the  disparate  source data  प्रणालियों   .
The integration  परत   integrates   the  disparate data sets  by  transforming the data  इससे   the  staging  परत   प्रायः  storing this transformed data  in  an operational data store  (  ODS  )  database .
the  integrated  आंकड़ा  are then  स्थानांतरित  to yet  another  database , often  पुकारा  the  आंकड़ा  warehouse database ,  जहाँ  the  आंकड़ा  is arranged into hierarchical groups often called  आयाम  and into facts and aggregate facts  .
the  combination of  तथ्य  and  आयाम  is  sometimes  called  a   स्टार   स्कीमा  .
The  अभिगम  layer  helps   उपयोक्ता   retrieve  data .
a   आंकड़ा  warehouse constructed from an  एकीकृत  data source systems does  नहीं  require  etl   ,  staging databases  ,  or operational data store  databases  .
The integrated  आंकड़ा  source systems may  be  considered to be a part of a  वितरित   operational   आंकड़ा  store layer .
आंकड़ा   संघ  methods or data  आभासीकरण  methods  may   be  used to access the distributed  एकीकृत   सोर्स   आंकड़ा   प्रणालियों  to  consolidate   और   कुल  data  सीधे  into the  आंकड़ा  warehouse database tables .
नापसंद  the  etl-based  data warehouse ,  the   एकीकृत  source data systems  और  the data warehouse are all integrated since  वहीँ  is  no   परिवर्तन  of dimensional  or  reference data .
This integrated  आंकड़ा  warehouse architecture  supports  the  ड्रिल  down from  the   कुल  data  of  the  आंकड़ा   गोदाम   to  the transactional data of  the  integrated source data systems  .
Data warehouses can be subdivided into data marts .
आंकड़ा  marts  स्टोर  subsets of  आंकड़ा   इससे  a warehouse .
This definition of  the   आंकड़ा  warehouse focuses on data  भंडार  .
The main source  of  the data is cleaned , transformed ,  cataloged   और  made  उपलब्धियाँ  for  उपयोग   by   प्रबंधक  and  अन्य  business professionals for data mining , online  विश्लेषणात्मक   प्रसंस्करण  ,  मार्केट  research  और   निर्णय  support (  marakas  & O'Brien  2009  ) .
However ,  the   अर्थात्  to  retrieve  and analyze  आंकड़ा   ,   to  extract  ,   रूपांतरण  and load  आंकड़ा  , and to manage  the   आंकड़ा   शब्दकोष   हैं   भी  considered  अनिवार्य   components  of  a  data warehousing  प्रणाली   .
अनेक   सन्दर्भ  to  आंकड़ा   warehousing   उपयोग   इस   broader  context .
यूँ   ,  an  विस्तारित  definition  लिये   आंकड़ा   warehousing  includes business intelligence tools  ,   टूल्स  to extract , transform and load data  into   the  repository ,  और   टूल्स  to manage and  retrieve   मेटाडेटा   .
Portland stone  पाषाण   on  the  आइल  of Portland ,  इंग्लैण्ड
An abandoned  निर्माण  aggregate quarry near Adelaide , South  ऑस्ट्रेलिया
A  पाषाण  is a type of  open-pit   मेरा  from which rock or minerals are  निकाली  .
खदानों   हैं  generally  प्रयुक्त   लिये   extracting   भवन   सामग्री   ,   ऐसे  as  आयाम   स्टोन   ,  construction  कुल  ,  riprap  , sand , and gravel .
वे  are often collocated with  कंक्रीट  and  डामर   पौधे  due to the requirement for  विशाल   amounts  of  कुल   in   those  materials  .
Open  खानों   कि  produce  खनिज  are typically referred to  as   खोलें   गड्ढे  mines .
the  word  पाषाण   can  include  भूमिगत   quarrying  for  स्टोन  , such  as  Bath  स्टोन   .
Mormons ( ) are  a  religious and cultural group  सम्बन्धित   to  Mormonism , the  प्रिंसिपल   शाखा   of  the  latter  Day Saint  गति  of Restorationist  christianity  , which  began   साथ  the  visions   of   जोसेफ  Smith  in   upstate  New York  दौरान   the   1820s  .
बाद  Smith 's death  in   1844  the  mormons  followed  ब्रिघम   यंग  to  कया  would become the Utah Territory  .
आज  Mormons  हैं   समझा   to  be  सदस्यों  of The Church  of   यीशु  Christ of  latter-day  Saints ( LDS  गिरिजाघर   )  .
कुछ   mormons  are also  either   स्वतंत्र  or non-practicing .
The center of  mormon  cultural influence  is   in   यूटा   ,   और   उत्तर  America  रै   अधिक  Mormons than  कोई  other  महाद्वीप  ,  हालांकि  the majority of Mormons live outside  the   संयुक्त  States  .
Mormons  have   विकसित   a  strong  भाव  of  communality  that stems  इससे   उनके  doctrine and  इतिहास  .
During the 19th century Mormon  converts  tended  to  gather  to   a   सेंट्रल   भौगोलिक   स्थान  , and between  1852  and 1890  a  minority of  mormons  openly  practiced   बहुवचन  marriage  ,  a form of  धार्मिक  polygamy .
mormons   dedicate   विशाल  amounts of  समय  and resources  to  serving in their church , and  अनेक  young Mormons  चुनें  to serve  a   full-time  proselytizing mission  .
mormons   have   a  health code that eschews alcoholic beverages  ,   तम्बाकू  , coffee , tea  ,   और   अन्य   addictive  substances .
वे  tend to be very  family-oriented  , and  have  strong  कनेक्शन्स   आरपार  generations  और  with  विस्तारित   परिवार  ,  परावर्तक   of   उनके  belief  कि  families  can  be sealed together  परे  death  और  throughout eternity  .
Mormons  भी  have a strict  विधि  of chastity ,  requiring  abstention from sexual  संबंध   बाहर  of  विवाह   और  strict  वफ़ादारी  within  विवाह  .
Mormons self-identify as  ईसाई  , though some of  उनके  beliefs differ  इससे  mainstream  christianity  .
Mormons  मानना  in the  बाइबल   ,  as well as  अन्य   किताबे  of  scripture   ,   ऐसे  as  the  Book of Mormon  .
They have a  अद्वितीय  view of cosmology , and believe  कि   सब  people are  spirit-children  of  परमेश्वर   .
mormons   मानना  that  returning   to   परमेश्वर  requires  following   the  example of Jesus  मसीह   ,   और   accepting   उसके  atonement  through  ordinances such  as  baptism .
They believe  कि   मसीह  's church was restored through  जोसेफ   स्मिथ   ,  and is  हिदायत   by   जीना   नबियों  and apostles .
सेंट्रल   to   mormon  faith is the  विश्वास   कि   परमेश्वर  speaks  to   उसके   children   और  answers their prayers .
in   वित्तीय   हिसाब  , assets are economic resources  .
Anything tangible  or  intangible  कि  is capable of  होने   स्वामित्व   or   नियंत्रित  to  उपज  value  और   कि   is   आयोजित  to have positive economic  मान   is  considered  an   एसेट  .
Simply stated , assets represent value  of   स्वामित्व   कि  can  be   परिवर्तित   into  cash  (  although cash itself  is   भी  considered an  एसेट   )  .
The  संतुलन  sheet  of   a  firm  रिकॉर्ड  the  monetaryj   .
G. Siegel , N. Dauber & J. K. Shim ,  ``  The Vest Pocket  cpa  '' , Wiley ,  2005.there   हैं  different methods of  assessing  the monetary  मान  of the assets recorded  on   the   संतुलन   चादर  .
In some  मामले   ,   the  Historical Cost  is  used ;  ऐसे  that the  मान  of the asset  जब  it  थी  bought in  the  past  is   प्रयुक्त   as  the monetary value  .
In other instances , the present  मेला  market  मान  of the  एसेट   is   प्रयुक्त  to  determine  the value  दिखाया  on the balance sheet  .
मान  of the  एसेट  owned by the  कड़  .
it  is money and  अन्य  valuables belonging to  an   व्यक्तिगत   or   कारोबार  .
Two  प्रमुख  asset classes are  ठोस  assets and intangible assets  .
Tangible assets contain various subclasses ,  सहित  current assets and fixed  assets.j  .
Downes , J.E  .   गुडमैन  , `` Dictionary  of  Finance  &   निवेश  Terms ''  ,   सामन्त  's  वित्तीय  Guides ,  2003   वर्तमान  assets include inventory , while fixed assets  शामिल  such items as buildings  और  equipment .J .  downes   ,  J.E  .   गुडमैन  , `` Dictionary  of   वित्त   &   निवेश  Terms '' , Baron 's Financial  मार्गदर्शिका   ,   2003   ;  and J.  G.   siegel  , N. Dauber  &   J.  K.  shim  ,  ``  The Vest  जेब   cpa  '' , Wiley ,  2005  .
Intangible  एसेट   हैं   nonphysical   संसाधन   और  rights  कि   have  a  मान  to the firm because they give  the   कड़  some kind  of   लाभ   in  the  मार्केट   प्लेस  .
Examples  of   intangible  assets  हैं  goodwill ,  copyrights  , trademarks , patents  और   कंप्यूटर  programs  ,  and  वित्तीय  assets ,  सहित  such  वस्तुएं  as  खाते   receivable   ,  bonds  और  stocks  .
A neuron  (  or  ;   भी   ज्ञात  as a neurone or nerve  कोशिका   )   is   an  electrically excitable cell  कि  processes  और  transmits information through  विद्युत  and  रासायनिक   सिग्नल  .
a  chemical  सिग्नल   occurs  via  a   अन्तर्ग्रथन   ,  a  specialized   कनेक्शन   साथ  other cells .
Neurons connect to each  अन्य  to  रूप  neural networks  .
Neurons are  the  core components of the  बेचैन   प्रणाली  , which includes  the  brain  ,  spinal cord , and  परिधीय  ganglia .
a   क्रमांक  of  specialized   प्रकार  of neurons exist  :   संवेदी   न्यूरॉन्स  respond to  टच   ,  sound  ,   लाइट  and  numerous  other stimuli affecting cells  of  the  संवेदी  organs  कि  then send  सिग्नल   to   the  spinal  cord  and brain  .
Motor  न्यूरॉन्स  receive signals from  the   दिमाग  and  स्पाइनल  cord , cause  मांसपेशी  contractions  ,   और   affect  glands  .
interneurons   कनेक्ट  neurons to other neurons  भीतर  the  वही   प्रदेश   of   the  brain or  स्पाइनल  cord  .
a  typical neuron possesses  a  cell body ( often  पुकारा  the soma )  ,   dendrites   ,   और   an  axon .
dendrites  are  पतला   structures   कि   उठता  from the  कोशिका  body  ,  often  extending  for hundreds  of   micrometres  and branching multiple times ,  giving  rise to a complex ``  dendritic   पेड़  '' .
An  axon   is  a special cellular extension that arises from  the   कोशिका   देह  at a  साईट   पुकारा  the  axon   उभरकर   और  travels for a distance ,  as   दूर   as  1  मीटर   in  humans  or   भी   अधिक  in other  प्रजाति   .
The cell  देह  of a  न्यूरॉन  frequently gives  वृद्धि   to   अनेक  dendrites , but  never   to   अधिक  than one axon  ,   हालांकि  the axon may branch  सैंकड़ों   of  times before  it  terminates  .
At the  बहुमत  of synapses ,  सिग्नल   हैं  sent from the  axon  of  एक  neuron to a dendrite of  another  .
There are ,  however  , many exceptions to  ये  rules  :  neurons that  कमी   dendrites   ,  neurons  कि  have  no   axon  , synapses that  कनेक्ट  an axon to  another  axon or  a   dendrite  to  another  dendrite , etc .
All  न्यूरॉन्स  are  electrically  excitable , maintaining  वोल्टेज  gradients across their membranes  by   अर्थात्  of  metabolically  driven  आयन  pumps ,  जिससे  combine with ion  चैनल्स   अंतःस्थापित  in the  झिल्ली  to generate  intracellular-versus-extracellular  concentration  मतभेद   of   ions  such  as  sodium ,  पोटैशियम  ,  chloride   ,   और  calcium  .
परिवर्तन  in the cross-membrane  वोल्टेज   can  alter the function of  voltage-dependent  ion  चैनल्स  .
If  the   वोल्टेज  changes by  a  large enough  राशि  ,  an   all-or-none   electrochemical   पल्स   पुकारा   an   कार्रवाई  potential is  उत्पन्न  , which  ट्रेवल्स   rapidly  along the  कोशिका  's axon  ,   और  activates  सिनेप्टिक  connections  साथ  other  कोशिकाएं  when it  आगमन  .
Neurons do not undergo cell  प्रभाग  .
in   सबसे   मामले   ,  neurons are  उत्पन्न   by  special types  of  stem  कोशिकाएं   .
astrocytes   ,   a  type of glial cell , have also  महरूम  observed to turn into neurons  by  virtue  of   the   स्टेम  cell  characteristic  pluripotency  .
In humans  ,  neurogenesis largely ceases during adulthood—but  in  two  दिमाग  areas , the  हिप्पोकैम्पस  and olfactory  बल्ब  ,  वहीँ   is  strong  प्रमाण  for  पीढी   of   substantial   संख्याएँ   of   नई  neurons .
सुपर  Bowl  xliii  was an  अमरीकी  football game  between   the  American  फ़ुटबॉल  Conference (  afc  )  चैंपियन   पिट्सबर्ग  Steelers and  the   नेशनल   फ़ुटबॉल  Conference  (  NFC ) champion  एरिज़ोना   कार्डिनल्स  to  decide   the  National Football  लीग  ( NFL  )   चैंपियन   लिये  the 2008 season  .
the   स्टीलर्स  defeated the Cardinals  by   the  score of 27–23 .
the  game  थी  played on  फ़रवरी  1 , 2009 ,  at   रेमंड   जेम्स   स्टेडियम  in Tampa  ,  Florida .
साथ   इस   जीत  , the Steelers became  the   पहला  team  to  win six Super Bowls .
Pittsburgh ,  जो   समाप्त   the   नियमित   ऋतु   साथ  a 12–4 record , also  जीती   उनके  second Super Bowl  in  four  सालो  after winning Super Bowl XL at the end of the  2005   ऋतु   .
The  कार्डिनल्स  entered the game  seeking   उनके  first NFL  शीर्षक  since  1947   ,  the longest championship drought in  the  league  .
The club became an  अनपेक्षित  winner during the  नियमित   ऋतु  ,  compiling   a   9–7   रिकार्ड  , and  the  playoffs with the aid of  सिर  coach Ken Whisenhunt  ,   जो  was  the  Steelers '  अप्रिय  coordinator  in  Super Bowl XL , and  the  re-emergence of quarterback  कर्ट  Warner ,  जो  was  the   सुपर  Bowl MVP  in  Super Bowl  xxxiv  with  उसके   पूर्व   टोली   ,  St.  लुई  Rams  .
Pittsburgh  कूद   to   a  17–7 halftime lead ,  aided  by linebacker James Harrison 's  सुपर  Bowl  रिकार्ड  100-yard  interception  return for  a   touchdown  .
Trailing  20–7   at  the start of the fourth quarter , Arizona scored 16  अनुत्तरित  points  ,   सहित   चौड़ी  receiver  लैरी  Fitzgerald 's 64-yard  touchdown  reception , to take  the   सीसे   साथ   2:37   बाकी  in  the  game .
But  the  Steelers  marched   78   गज   to  score on wide receiver  santonio  Holmes  '  6-yard  game-winning   touchdown   कैच   साथ  35 seconds left .
Holmes , who caught nine  गुजरता   लिये   131   गज  and  a  touchdown , including four  receptions  for  73   गज  on that final  game-winning  drive  ,  was named  सुपर  Bowl  mvp  .
he  became the sixth wide receiver to  जीत   the  award ,  और  also was the third Pittsburgh receiver  to  win the award , following  lynn   swann  and Hines Ward  .
despite  the  वैश्विक  financial crisis and limited amount of ancillary  festivities  that  हैं   सामान्यतः  held  पहले  the game , the  एनबीसी   टेलीविज़न  network broadcast attracted an average U.S. audience of  98.7   लाख   दर्शक   ,  making it the most watched Super Bowl  in   इतिहास   to   कि   पाइंट   .
A  आरेख  of  the   इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक   वर्णक्रम  ,  प्रर्दशित  various  गुण  across the  दायरा   of   बारंबारता   और   wavelengths
The electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम   is  the  दायरा   of   सब  possible frequencies of  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  radiation  .
the   ``   इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक   वर्णक्रम  ''  of   an   ऑब्जेक्ट   रै  a  अलग   अर्थ  , and is instead the characteristic distribution  of   इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक   विकिरण  emitted or  अवशोषित   by  that particular object .
the  electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम  extends  इससे  below the  कम  frequencies used for modern radio  संचार   to   गामा  radiation  at   the  short-  wavelength  ( high-frequency ) end ,  thereby  covering  wavelengths   इससे   हज़ारों   of  kilometers down to  a  fraction of  the  size  of  an atom .
The limit for  long  wavelengths is  the   आकार  of the  ब्रह्मांड  itself  ,   जबकि  it  is   विचार  that the  छोटी   wavelength  limit  is  in the vicinity  of  the Planck length ,  हालांकि  in principle the spectrum  is  infinite  और  continuous  .
Most parts of the electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम  are used  in  science for  spectroscopic   और  other probing interactions , as  तरीके  to  पढ़ाई  and characterize  पदार्थ   .
in   जोड  ,  विकिरण  from various  भाग   of   the  spectrum  रै  found  अनेक  other uses for communications  और  manufacturing  (  see electromagnetic radiation for more  अनुप्रयोग  ) .
लेजेंड
Marchantia ,  a  liverwort
Bryophyte  is   a  traditional  नाम   प्रयुक्त  to  refer  to  सब   embryophytes   (  land plants ) that do not  have  true vascular tissue  और  are therefore called  '  non-vascular plants ' .
कुछ   bryophytes  do have  specialized   ऊतकों  for  the   हस्तांतरण  of  जल  ;  however  since these do  नहीं  contain lignin  ,  they are not  माना  to  be  true vascular  ऊतक  .
फिलहाल  bryophytes are thought not to be  a  natural or monophyletic  समूह   ;  however the name is convenient and  remains  in  उपयोग  as a collective term for mosses , hornworts  ,   और  liverworts  .
Bryophytes  उपज  enclosed reproductive  structures  (  gametangia   और   sporangia  ) ,  लकिन  they produce neither  पुष्प  nor  बीज   ,  reproducing via  बीजाणुओं   .
The  पद  bryophyte  आता  from Greek  βρύον  ,  bryon   ,  `` tree-moss  ,   oyster-green  ''  +  φυτόν  -   phyton   ``   संयंत्र   ''   .
a  bank is a  वित्तीय   संस्था  and a financial intermediary that accepts  जमा  and channels those deposits into lending  क्रियाएँ   ,  either directly  by  loaning or  indirectly  through  पूंजी   बाज़ार  .
A  बैंको  is the  कनेक्शन   between   ग्राहक  that have  पूंजी   deficits  and customers  साथ  capital surpluses .
due  to their  influence  within a financial  प्रणाली  and  an  economy  ,   बैंको   हैं  generally  अत्यधिक   regulated  in most countries  .
सबसे  banks operate under a system  ज्ञात   as  fractional  आरक्षित  banking  जहाँ   वे   थाम  only  a   छोटी  reserve  of   the  funds deposited and lend  आउट  the  बाकी   लिये   लाभ   .
वे  are generally subject to  न्यूनतम  capital  आवश्यकताएँ  which  हैं  based  on   an   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  set of  पूंजी  standards , known as the  basel  Accords .
The oldest bank still  in  existence is  मोंटे   देई   paschi   di  Siena  ,   headquartered  in Siena , Italy , which has been operating continuously since 1472  .
It is  followed   by   berenberg  Bank of  हैम्बर्ग  ( 1590  )   और  Sveriges  riksbank  of Sweden  (  1668 )  .
Banking in its modern sense evolved in  समृद्ध  cities  of  Renaissance Italy , such  as   फ्लोरेंस   ,  Venice and  जेनोआ  .
In  the  history  of  banking  ,   a   क्रमांक  of  बैंकिंग   dynasties  —among  उन्हें  notably  medici  , Fugger , Welser ,  berenberg  , Baring  और  Rothschild —have  निभाई  a  सेंट्रल  role over many centuries .
The  एक्सबॉक्स   is  a video  खेल  console manufactured  by  Microsoft  .
it  was released on November  15  , 2001  in  North  अमेरिका  ,  फ़रवरी  22 , 2002 in Japan , and  कूच  14 ,  2002   in  Australia  और   यूरोपीय  .
It was  microsoft  's first  foray   into  the gaming  कंसोल  market  .
as   भाग   of   the   sixth-generation   of   गेमिंग   ,  the Xbox  competed   साथ   सोनी  's PlayStation  2  ,  sega  's  dreamcast   (   जिससे  stopped  अमरीकी  sales before  the  Xbox went on sale  )   ,  and  निन्टेंडो   's  GameCube  .
the  Xbox was the first console offered by an American company  बाद  the  atari   जैगुआर   रोका  sales  in   1996   .
the   एकीकृत   एक्सबॉक्स  Live  सेवा  launched in  नवम्बर  2002 allowed players to play  खेल   ऑनलाइन  with  a  broadband  कनेक्शन  .
It first  competed  with  dreamcast  's online  सेवा   लकिन   बाद  primarily competed with  प्लेस्टेशन  2  's   ऑनलाइन  service  .
Although these  दो  are free  जबकि  Xbox Live  जरूरी  a  सब्सक्रिप्शन   ,  as  खूब  as  broadband-only  connection  जिससे  was  नहीं  completely adopted yet ,  एक्सबॉक्स   सजीव  was  a   कामयाबी   due  to  बेहतर  servers ,  सुविधाएँ  such  as  a  दोस्त  list , and milestone titles like Halo 2  released   in   नवम्बर  2004 ,  जिससे  is the  best-selling  Xbox video game and was  by  far  the   सबसे  popular  ऑनलाइन   खेल   लिये  years .
Xbox  's  successor , the Xbox  360  , was launched  in  November 2005 .
the  Xbox was discontinued in late  2005   in  Japan  जहाँ  sales  यहूद   ग़रीब  .
It  थी  discontinued in  लेट   2006   in  Europe and early  2007   in  North  अमेरिका  .
the  last Xbox game in  यूरोपीय   थी  Tony  हॉक   's  Project  8  released  in  November  2006   ,  and the last game in North  अमेरिका  was Madden  एनएफएल  09  released  in August  2008  .
support   लिये  out-of-warranty  एक्सबॉक्स  consoles was discontinued on  कूच  2  ,   2009  ,  stating  that any in-warranty repair  अभी   needed  will  नहीं   be  undertaken .
Xbox access  to  Xbox  सजीव  was  रोका  on  अप्रैल  15 , 2010  .
The Gospel  according  to John  (   यूनानी  τὸ  κατὰ  Ἰωάννην  εὐαγγέλιον  )  ,   commonly   referred   to   as  the  इन्जील  of John  or   बस  John and often referred to in  नई   वसीयत  scholarship as the Fourth  इन्जील  ,  is  an account  of   the  public ministry of Jesus .
it  begins  साथ   the  witness and affirmation by  जॉन   the   बैपटिस्ट  and  concludes  with the death ,  दफ़न   ,  resurrection ,  और  post-resurrection  दिखावे  of Jesus .
This  खाता  is fourth of the canonical gospels , after the synoptics Matthew  ,  Mark  और   ल्यूक   .
states  कि   the  book derives  इससे  the testimony  of  the ' disciple whom  यीशु  loved . '
Along with Peter ,  the  unnamed  शिष्य  is  विशेषकर  close to Jesus ,  और  early-church tradition identified  उसे   as   जॉन  the Apostle  ,  one  of   यीशु  ' Twelve  रसूलों  .
The gospel is  closely  related  in   स्टाइल   और  content  to  the  तीन  surviving Epistles of John such  कि  commentators treat the four books together ,  yet  , according  to  most  आधुनिक  scholars  ,  John was  नहीं   the   लेखक  of  कोई  of these  किताबे  .
हाल  Christian Scripture scholarship more and  अधिक  has placed  जॉन  within a first-century  यहूदी  context  .
Raymond E.  भूरा   किया  pioneering  कार्य  to  ट्रेस  the development of the tradition from  जिससे  the gospel  arose  .
The discourses seem to  be  concerned with the  वास्तविक  issues of  the   church-and-synagogue   बहस   at   the   समय   जब   the  Gospel  थी   लिखा  .
it  is notable that  ,  in the gospel , the  जातियाँ   स्टिल   appears   to  define  itself   primarily   विरूद्ध  Judaism  ,   बल्कि   than  as part of  a   wider  Christian church  .
हालांकि   christianity  started  as   a  movement  भीतर  Judaism , gradually Christians  और   यहूदियों   became  bitterly opposed  .
John presents  a  `` higher  ''  Christology than the synoptics ,  अर्थ  that it  describes   यीशु  as the incarnation  of  the divine  लोगो  through whom  सब   बाते  were made , as the object  of   veneration   ,  and more explicitly as God  incarnate  .
Only  in  John does Jesus talk  at  length about  खुद   और  his  दैवी   भूमिका   ,  often shared with  the   शिष्यों  only .
Against  the   synoptics   ,  John  focuses  largely  on   अलग   चमत्कार  (  सहित   resurrecting  Lazarus )  ,   दिए  as signs  meant  to  engender   आस्था   .
Synoptic  तत्व  such  as   parables  and  exorcisms  are  नहीं  found in John .
it  presents a  एहसास  eschatology  in  which salvation  is  already  उपस्थित  for the  आस्तिक  .
The  plagues   of  Egypt  (  )  ,  also called the Ten Plagues (  )  or the  biblical  Plagues  ,  were ten calamities that ,  according  to the biblical  किताब   of  Exodus  ,  Israel 's  परमेश्वर   ,   yahweh   ,   inflicted  upon  मिश्र  to persuade Pharaoh to  रिलीज  the ill-treated Israelites from  गुलामी  .
pharaoh  capitulated after  the  tenth plague , triggering  the   exodus   of   the  Jewish  लोगों  .
the   plagues  were designed  to  contrast  the  power  of  Yahweh  साथ  the impotence of  मिश्र   's   विभिन्न  gods  .
Some commentators  have   संबद्ध   अनेक   of   the   plagues  with judgment on specific gods associated  साथ   the  Nile ,  प्रजनन   और   प्राकृतिक  phenomena  .
The plagues of  मिश्र   हैं  also  उल्लेखित   in  the Quran  (   7,133–136  ) .
According to the  किताब  of Exodus ,  परमेश्वर   proclaims  that all the gods of Egypt will be  judged  through the  दसवाँ   और  final  plague:
John  मार्टिन   's  painting of  the  plague  of   hail   और  fire  (   1823   )  .
a   role-playing   खेल  ( RPG and sometimes roleplaying game )  is  a  खेल  in which  खिलाड़ी  assume the roles of characters in  a  fictional  सेटिंग  .
खिलाड़ी  take responsibility  लिये  acting out these roles  भीतर   a   कथा   ,  either through literal acting  or   through  a process  of  structured decision-making or character  विकास  .
Actions  लिया   भीतर   अनेक  games succeed or fail according to  a   औपचारिक   प्रणाली   of   नियम  and guidelines .
वहीँ   हैं   अनेक  forms of RPG .
The  असली   रूप  ,  sometimes   पुकारा   the   tabletop  RPG ,  is   conducted  through discussion , whereas in live action role-playing games  (   larp   )   खिलाड़ी   physically  perform their characters ' actions  .
In  दोनो  of these forms , an arranger  पुकारा   a  game  निपुण  ( GM )  प्रायः  decides  on  the  नियम  and setting to be  प्रयुक्त  and acts as  रेफरी  , while  प्रत्येक  of  the  other players  plays   the  role of  a   सिंगल  character  .
अनेक   किस्में   of  RPG also  मौजूद   in   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  media , such as  multi-player  text-based MUDs and their graphics-based successors  ,  massively multiplayer  ऑनलाइन   role-playing  games  (   mmorpgs   )  .
role-playing   खेल  also  शामिल  single-player offline  role-playing  video games in which players  कंट्रोल   a   अक्षर   or   टोली  who undertake  quests  , and  may   शामिल  capabilities  कि   अग्रिम  using statistical mechanics .
These  खेल  often share settings and rules  साथ  tabletop RPGs , but emphasize character advancement  अधिक   than  collaborative  storytelling  .
Despite  इस  variety of  फ़ॉर्म   ,   कुछ   खेल   फ़ॉर्म  such  as  trading card games and wargames that are  सम्बन्धित  to role-playing games may not be  शामिल  .
Role-playing activity  may   sometimes   be   उपस्थित  in such  खेल  ,  लकिन   it  is  नहीं  the primary  फ़ोकस  .
The term is also  sometimes   प्रयुक्त  to describe  लिए  simulation games  और  exercises used in teaching , training , and academic  शोध  .
The American Civil  युद्ध  ( ACW )  ,  also known  as   the  War  between   the  States or simply the  सिविल  War (  देखिए  naming ) , was a  सिविल  war  लड़ा   इससे   1861  to 1865  between  the United States  (  the ``  संघ   ''  or the `` North ''  )  and several Southern slave states that declared  उनके  secession and  formed   the  Confederate States of America  (   the  ``  confederacy  '' or  the  ``  दक्षिण   ''  )  .
The  युद्ध  had its  उत्पत्ति   in  the  समस्या   of  slavery ,  विशेषकर  the extension of slavery  into   the  western territories  .
Foreign powers  किया  not intervene  .
बाद  four  सालो  of bloody combat that  बाएँ   over  600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed  much   of   the  South 's  अवसंरचना  , the Confederacy  collapsed   ,  slavery  थी  abolished , and the  मुश्किल  Reconstruction process of restoring  नेशनल  unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed  स्लेव  began  .
In the  1860   अध्यक्षीय  election  ,  Republicans  ,  led by Abraham Lincoln  ,  opposed  expanding  slavery into  संयुक्त  States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his  उद्घाटन  on  कूच   4  , 1861 ,  सात   cotton-based  slave states formed the  confederacy  .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the  आवक   republicans   अस्वीकृत  secession  as  illegal  .
lincoln  's  inaugural   पता  declared his  प्रशासन   होता  not  initiate  civil  युद्ध   .
Eight  बाकी  slave  राज्य  continued to  अस्वीकृत   काल्स   लिये   secession  .
confederate  forces  जब्त  numerous federal forts within territory claimed  by   the  Confederacy  .
A  सलाम   सम्मेलन  failed  to   ढूँढें  a  सुलह  ,  और   दोनो   पहलू   prepared  for  युद्ध  .
The Confederates  assumed  that  यूरोपीय   देशों  were  so  dependent on ``  किंग   कपास  ``  कि   वे   होता  intervene  ;   none  did  और  none recognized the  नई  Confederate States of  अमेरिका  .
hostilities   began   on   अप्रैल  12  ,   1861  ,  जब  Confederate forces  fired  upon  फोर्ट  Sumter ,  a  key fort held by Union  सैनिकों  in  दक्षिण  Carolina .
lincoln   पुकारा  for  प्रत्येक   राज्य   to   provide  troops to retake the  फोर्ट  ;  नतीजतन  ,  चार   अधिक   स्लेव   राज्य  joined the Confederacy , bringing  उनके  total to eleven  .
The Union soon controlled the  किनारा  states  और   स्थापित   a   नवल  blockade that crippled the  दक्षिणी  economy .
The Eastern Theater  थी  inconclusive  in  1861–62 .
the  autumn 1862  confederate  campaign into Maryland  (  a Union state  )  ended with  confederate  retreat  at   the  Battle  of   antietam   ,   dissuading  British intervention .
Lincoln issued  the   emancipation  Proclamation  ,  which  बना  ending slavery  a   युद्ध  goal  .
To the west ,  by  summer 1862 the Union destroyed  the  Confederate  नदी  navy , then  much  of  उनके   पश्चिमी  armies  ,  and the  संघ  at Vicksburg split  the  Confederacy in  दो  at  the   मिसिसिपी  River .
in  1863 , Robert E.  ली   's  Confederate incursion north ended  at   the  Battle of Gettysburg .
पश्चिमी  successes led  to   ulysses   S.   ग्रान्ट  command of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the  पश्चिमी   थिएटर   ,  William T.  शरमन  drove  ईस्ट  to capture  अटलांटा   और  marched to  the   समुद्र  , destroying  confederate  infrastructure  साथ   the   रास्ता  .
The Union  marshaled  the resources and  जनशक्ति   to  attack the  confederacy   इससे   सब   दिशानिर्देश  ,  और   could  afford  to   लड़ो  battles of attrition through  the  Overland Campaign towards Richmond ,  the   confederate  capital .
the  defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's  आत्मसमर्पण   to   ग्रान्ट  at  appomattox  Court House  on   अप्रैल   9  , 1865  .
The  अमरीकी  Civil War  थी   एक  of  the   earliest  true  औद्योगिक  wars  .
Railroads , the  टेलीग्राफ  ,  steamships  ,  और   mass-produced   हथियार  were employed  extensively  .
The mobilization  of   civilian   कारखानों   ,  mines , shipyards  ,   बैंको  , transportation  और   खाना  supplies  सब  foreshadowed World  युद्ध   i   .
It remains  the   deadliest  war  in  American history  ,  resulting in  the  deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers  और  an undetermined  क्रमांक  of civilian  हताहत  .
Historian John  huddleston  estimates  the  death  टोल  at  टेन  percent of  सब  Northern males  20–45  years old  ,  and  30  percent of all Southern  श्वेत   males  aged  18–40  .
The definition  of  the world 's busiest airport  रै   महरूम   निर्दिष्ट   by   the  Airports  परिषद  International in Geneva  ,  Switzerland .
the  ACI defines and measures the following  तीन  types of airport  traffic:
Passenger traffic : total  यात्री   emplaned  and deplaned  ,  passengers in transit counted once
Cargo  ट्रैफ़िक  : loaded  और   मोड  freight and  मेल   in  metric tonnes
Traffic  आंदोलनों  : landings  और   take-offs  of aircraft
संसार  War I ( WWI )  थी  a  वैश्विक  war  केंद्रित   in   यूरोपीय  that  began   on  28  जुलाई  1914  और  lasted until 11  नवम्बर   1918  .
It  थी  predominantly called the World  युद्ध  or the Great War  इससे   इसके  occurrence until  the  start  of  World  युद्ध   ii  in  1939   ,  and the First  संसार  War or  संसार  War I  thereafter   .
it  involved all  the   संसार  's  ग्रेट   शक्तियां  , which were  समवेत   in  two opposing alliances  :   the  Allies  (  based on  the   ट्रिपल   entente   of  the United  किंगडम   ,  France  और  Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally  the  Triple Alliance of Germany  ,  Austria-Hungary  और   इटली   ;   लकिन  ,  as   austria–hungary  had  लिया   the   अप्रिय   विरूद्ध  the agreement  ,  Italy did not enter into  the  war  )   .
These  alliances   यहूद  both reorganised and expanded  as  more nations entered the  युद्ध   :  Italy  ,  Japan  और   the  United  राज्य  joined  the  Allies ,  और   the  Ottoman Empire  और   बुल्गारिया  the Central  शक्तियां  .
Ultimately  ,  more  than  70  लाख  military personnel , including 60 million Europeans  ,   यहूद   mobilised  in one of  the   largest  wars in history  .
More than 9  लाख   combatants  were killed , largely  क्युकी  of technological  advancements   कि   led  to enormous increases  in  the  lethality   of  weapons  बगैर   सम्बन्धित   सुधार   in  protection  or  mobility .
it  was the fifth- deadliest  विरोध   in   संसार  history ,  subsequently   paving   the  way  लिये  various  राजनैतिक  changes , such  as  revolutions in many  of  the  राष्ट्र  involved .
One of the long-term causes of  the   युद्ध   थी   the  resurgence of imperialism in  the  foreign policies of  the   ग्रेट   शक्तियां   of  Europe .
More immediately , the assassination  of  Archduke Franz Ferdinand of  ऑस्ट्रिया  ,  the  heir to the  सिंहासन   of  Austria-Hungary  ,  on 28 June 1914  by  Yugoslav  राष्ट्रवादी  Gavrilo  princip  in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic  संकट  when  austria-hungary  subsequently  वितरित   an   ultimatum   to  the  किंगडम  of Serbia .
अनेक   alliances   formed   over   the   पिछला  decades were  invoked   .
भीतर  weeks  ,  the  प्रमुख   शक्तियां  were at  युद्ध  and , via their  colonies  , the conflict soon spread  around  the world  .
On 28 July  ,  the  austro-hungarians  fired  the   पहला  shots of  the   युद्ध  as preparation  लिये   the  invasion of  सर्बिया  .
While the Russians  mobilised   ,   the   germans   invaded  neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the  रास्ता  to France ,  providing  a casus belli for  ब्रिटेन   's  declaration  of   युद्ध  against Germany  .
बाद  the German march on Paris  थी  brought to  a  halt—the so-called Miracle  of  the  marne  —the  पश्चिमी   सामने  settled into a  स्थिर   बैटल  of  अपघर्षण  with  a  trench line that changed little until  1917  .
On  the   पूर्वी  Front  ,   the  Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians  ,  but  थी  stopped in its  आक्रमण   of  East  prussia  by the Germans .
In November the  उस्मानी  Empire joined  the   युद्ध  , opening up fronts in the  काकेशस   ,   मेसोपोटामिया  and the  sinai   .
Italy and Bulgaria went  to  war  in  1915 and Romania in  1916  .
In Russia  ,  the tsar 's government collapsed in March  1917  and  a   subsequent   क्रान्ति   in  November  brought   the   russians  to  शर्तें  with the Central  शक्तियां  .
After a 1918 German  अप्रिय  along  the  western  सामने  , the  allies   drove  back  the  Germans in a  श्रेणी  of successful  offensives  and  अमरीकी  forces began entering  the   trenches   .
Germany  ,  which had  इसके  own trouble with revolutionaries , agreed to an armistice on  11   नवम्बर  1918  .
The war ended in victory  लिये   the   allies  .
Events  on   the   घर   fronts  were as tumultuous as  on  the  बैटल   fronts   ,  as  the  participants  आजमाया   to  mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight  a  total war .
by  the end of the war , four major imperial powers—the German ,  रूसी  , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman  empires—ceased   to  exist .
The  successor   राज्य  of the former two  खोया  a great amount of territory , while the  latter  two were dismantled entirely .
The map of  सेंट्रल  Europe  थी   redrawn  into  अनेक   छोटी   राज्य  .
The League of Nations was formed in  the  hope of preventing another such conflict .
The  यूरोपीय  nationalism spawned  by   the   युद्ध  and  the   ब्रेकअप   of  empires , the  परखना   of   जर्मनी   's   शिकस्त   और   समस्याएं  with the  सन्धि  of  versailles  are  सहमत  to be  कारकों  contributing to  संसार   युद्ध  II .
the  Deepwater  क्षितिज  oil  spill  ( also  referred  to  as  the BP oil spill , the  bp  oil disaster  ,   the   गल्फ  of Mexico oil  spill  ,  और  the  macondo   blowout  ) was an oil spill in  the   गल्फ  of  मैक्सिको  on the  bp  -operated  macondo  Prospect  ,  considered the  largest   आकस्मिक  marine oil  spill  in  the  history  of   the   पेट्रोलियम   उद्योग   ,  estimated to be between 8 % and 31 % larger in  आवाज़  than  the   पहले  Ixtoc I  आयल   spill  .
Following  the  explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon  आयल  rig  ,  which  claimed  11 lives , a sea-floor oil gusher flowed  unabated  for  87   दिनों   ,   जबतक  it was capped  on  15  जुलाई  2010  .
The total discharge  is  estimated  at   .
A massive response  ensued  to protect beaches ,  वेटलैंड्स   और  estuaries  इससे  the  spreading  oil utilizing  skimmer  ships , floating  booms  , controlled  burns   और   of  Corexit oil  dispersant  .
After several failed efforts  to  contain the  प्रवाह   ,  the well was declared sealed on 19 September  2010  .
Some reports indicate the  खूब  site  continues  to leak .
due  to the months-long spill , along  साथ   प्रतिकूल  effects from  the  response and cleanup  क्रियाएँ  ,  extensive  damage  to   समुद्री  and  वन्यजीव  habitats  ,   फ़िशिंग   और  tourism  उद्योग   ,  and human health problems have continued through 2013.Three years  बाद  the spill ,  तारकोल  balls could still be found  on  the Mississippi  coast   .
numerous   investigations   छान   the  causes  of  the  विस्फोट  and  record-setting   spill  .
Notably  ,   the  U.S.  सरकारी  's September  2011  report pointed  to  defective  सीमेंट   on   the   खूब  ,  faulting   ज़्यादातर  BP  ,  but also well  ऑपरेटर   transocean   और   ठेकेदार   halliburton  .
Earlier in  2011   ,  a White House commission likewise blamed BP and  इसके  partners  लिये  a  श्रेणी   of   cost-cutting  decisions and an insufficient  सुरक्षा  system , but  भी  concluded  कि  the  spill  resulted from  ``  systemic '' root causes  और  `` absent  significant   सुधार   in  both industry practices  और  government  नीतियों  , might  खूब  recur '' .
In November  2012  , BP and the United States Department of Justice settled  संघीय  criminal  आरोप   साथ  BP  pleading  guilty  to  11  रिश्तो   of  manslaughter , two misdemeanors , and a felony count  of  lying to Congress .
bp   भी  agreed to  चार   सालो  of government  निगरानी  of its safety  practices  and  आचार  ,  और   the   पर्यावरणीय   सुरक्षा  Agency  घोषित   कि  BP would be  temporarily   बैन   इससे   नई  contracts with  the  US government .
bp  and the Department  of  Justice  सहमत   to   a  record-setting $ 4.525  अरब  in fines and  अन्य  payments but further legal proceedings  नहीं  expected to  conclude  until 2014 are  जारी  to  determine   payouts  and fines under the Clean  जल  Act  और  the Natural  संसाधन  Damage  मूल्यांकन   .
as  of February  2013  , criminal  और  civil  settlements  and payments  to   a   विश्वास  fund had cost  the  company $ 42.2 billion  .
`` Where  the  Streets Have  no   नाम  '' is a song  by  rock  बैंड   u2   .
It is the opening track from their 1987  एल्बम  The  जोशुआ   पेड़   और  was  released  as the  एल्बम  's  तीसरा   सिंगल  in  अगस्त  1987 .
The song 's  आँकड़ा   is  a  repeating   गिटार   arpeggio   using  a delay effect ,  निभाई   दौरान   the  song 's  परिचय   और  again at  the  end .
सीसे  vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in  जवाब  to  the   ख़्याल  that  it  is possible to identify a  व्यक्ति  's religion and  आय  based  on  the street on which they  जिया  ,  विशेषकर  in  belfast   .
दौरान  the band  's   कठिनाइयों  recording  the  song , producer Brian Eno considered erasing the song 's  टेपों   to  have them start  इससे   खरोंच   .
``   जहाँ  the  गलियों  Have No  नाम  '' was  praised  by  आलोचकों   और   became  a commercial  कामयाबी  , peaking at number  तेरह   in  the US ,  क्रमांक  fourteen  in   कनाडा  ,  क्रमांक   टेन   in   the   नीदरलैंड्स   ,  and number four in  the  United  किंगडम   .
The song  रै   become  one of  the  band 's  सबसे   लोकप्रिय  songs  और  has  remained  a staple of their live act since the  सोंग  debuted in 1987  on  The Joshua  पेड़   दौरे  .
The  सोंग   थी  notably performed  on   a  Los Angeles  छत  for  the   फिल्मांकन   of   इसके  music  वीडियो  ,  जिससे  won a  ग्रैमी  Award for  बेहतरीन   प्रदर्शन  Music Video .Recently the song  रै  been used  by   the  NFL  's  Baltimore Ravens  as  their  प्रवेश   सोंग  in  सुपर  Bowl XLVII
Thomas  जेफरी   ``  Tom '' Hanks (  born  July 9 ,  1956  ) is an American actor  ,  producer ,  लेखक  , and director .
Hanks  is  known  लिये  his roles  in  Apollo  13  , Big  ,  That Thing  तुम   do  !
, The Green Mile , You 've  मिला  Mail ,  sleepless  in  सिएटल  , Charlie  विल्सन   's  War  ,   कैच  Me If You  can  , Forrest Gump  ,  Cast Away , A  लीग   of  Their  अपना  ,  the   da   विंची   कोड   ,  Angels  &  Demons  ,  as well as animated  films   जैसे  the  खिलौना  Story film  श्रेणी   ,  The  ध्रुवीय  Express  ,  and The  सिम्पसन्स   फिल्म   .
He has earned  और  been nominated  लिये  numerous  पुरस्कार   दौरान   उसके  career  ,  including winning a Golden Globe  लिये  Best Actor and an Academy  पुरस्कार   लिये   बेहतरीन  Actor  लिये  his role in  फिलाडेल्फिया   और  a Golden Globe  ,  an  अकादमी   पुरस्कार  ,  a  Screen Actors  गिल्ड  Award  ,  and  a  People  's  Choice  पुरस्कार   लिये  Best Actor  लिये   उसके   भूमिका   in   फॉरेस्ट   गंप  , and earning the  स्टेनली  Kubrick  britannia   पुरस्कार  for Excellence in  फिल्मी   इससे   the   baftas  in  2004  .
Hanks  is   भी  known for  उसके  collaboration  साथ   फिल्मी  director Steven Spielberg on Saving Private  रयान  and the  mini-series  Band of Brothers  ,  which  शुभारम्भ  Hanks also as  a  successful  निदेशक   ,   निर्माता  and  लेखक   .
as  of 2012  ,  Hanks '  films  have  grossed  over $ 4.2 billion  at  the United States box  दफ्तर   अलोन   ,  and over $ 8.5 billion worldwide  बनाना   उसे  the highest all-time box office star .
The  केप  is  an  American superhero  नाटक  series .
it   premiered   on  NBC  दौरान  the  2010–2011   टेलीविज़न  season as  a  mid-season  बदलना  beginning  साथ  a  two-hour   पायलट  episode on Sunday  ,  January 9 ,  2011   at  9  pm  Eastern and  प्रशांत  Time  .
An  encore  played on  सोमवार  , January  10  , with  follow-up   एपीसोड   continuing  on Monday evenings  in  the 9 pm  timeslot  beginning  on  January 17 .
NBC  subsequently  cut the total  क्रमांक  of  एपीसोड  to  be   aired   इससे   13  to 10 as a result  of  low  दरजा  .
On March  2   ,  2011  ,   एनबीसी  announced  कि  the  श्रेणी  finale would only  be  aired on  the  network 's website .
हैली   's  Comet or  धूमकेतु  Halley ( or  )  , officially  designated  1P/Halley ,  is   the  best-known  of   the  short-period comets and  is   दृश्य   इससे   धरती   प्रत्येक  75–76 years  .
हैली  is  the  only  short-period  comet that  is   clearly   दृश्य   to   the  naked  नजर   इससे   धरती  ,  और   यूँ   the  only naked-eye  धूमकेतु  that might  appear   twice  in  a   इंसान  lifetime .
Other  naked-eye  comets  may  be brighter and more  spectacular  , but will appear  तभी  once  in   हज़ारों  of  सालो  .
हैली  's returns to  the  inner Solar System have been observed  और   अंकित   by  astronomers since at least  240  BCE .
Clear records  of   the  comet 's  दिखावे  were  बना  by Chinese ,  babylonian   ,  and medieval European  chroniclers   ,  but were not  पहचाना  as reappearances of  the   वही  object at the time .
the   धूमकेतु  's  periodicity   थी   पहला   संकल्पित  in 1705  by   अंग्रेज़ी   astronomer  Edmond Halley ,  बाद  whom it is  अभी  named  .
Halley  's   धूमकेतु   पिछला  appeared  in  the  भीतरी   सौर   प्रणाली  in 1986 and will next  appear   in   mid-2061  .
During its  1986   apparition  , Halley became  the   पहला   धूमकेतु  to  be  observed in detail by  spacecraft   ,  providing  the   पहला   observational   आंकड़ा  on the structure of  a  comet  केंद्रक  and the mechanism  of  coma and tail formation  .
ये   observations   समर्थित   a   क्रमांक   of   longstanding  hypotheses  परिचय  comet construction , particularly Fred Whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model , which correctly predicted that Halley would  be   रचित  of a mixture  of  volatile ices  –  such as  जल  , carbon dioxide  और  ammonia  –   और   धूल  .
the  missions  भी   provided  data which substantially reformed and  reconfigured  these  विचार   ;  for instance it  is   अभी  understood that Halley  's   सतह   is   largely  composed  of   dusty   ,   non-volatile  materials ,  और  that  तभी  a  छोटी   portion   of   it  is icy  .
The following is a list of  the   सबसे  populous incorporated places  of   the  United States  of  America  .
As defined by  the  United States Census  ब्यूरो   ,  an  ``  incorporated  प्लेस   ``   शामिल   a  variety of  designations   ,  including city ,  कस्बा   ,   गाँव  ,  बरो  , and municipality  .
a   few  exceptional Census Designated  स्थान   (  CDPs  )  are also  शामिल  in  the  Census  ब्यूरो  's listing of incorporated  स्थान  .
संचित  city-counties  represent   a   पृथक  type of government that includes the entire  जनसांख्यिकी   of  a county ,  or   काउंटी   समतुल्य  .
Some consolidated city-counties , however , include multiple  incorporated  places  .
इस   सूची   presents  only  कि  portion ( or  ``   संतुलन   ''  ) of  ऐसे   संचित   city-counties  that are not  a  part of  another  incorporated place .
Note  कि  this  सूची   refers   तभी  to the population  of   व्यक्तिगत  municipalities  भीतर   उनके   पारिभाषित  limits ,  जिससे  does not  शामिल  other  municipalities  or unincorporated  suburban  areas within  शहरी  agglomerations .
a  different  रैंकिंग   is  evident when  considering   u.S.  metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  populations  .
The  mayflower  was the  जलयान   कि   in  1620  transported   102  English  तीर्थयात्रियों   ,   सहित  a core group  of   separatists  , to New  इंग्लैण्ड   .
Their story is one of travail and  अस्तित्व  in a  हर्ष   नई   संसार  environment  .
A  नई  Zealand forward ( in white ) takes  a  shot  on  goal  विरूद्ध  Cameroon in the 2011 FIFA U-20  संसार   कप  .
Forwards ,  भी   ज्ञात   as   strikers   ,  are  the   खिलाड़ी   on  a team in association football  जो   खेल  nearest to  the  opposing team 's  लक्ष्य  , and  हैं   इसलिए   प्रधानतया  responsible  लिये  scoring  लक्ष्य  .
इस  very  उन्नत  position and its limited  रक्षात्मक  responsibilities mean forwards  सामान्यतः   स्कोर   अधिक   लक्ष्य  than  अन्य  players .
इस  position  requires  intelligence  ,  speed  ,  and  शक्ति  , both  of  execution and of  विचार   ,  to  perform   the  role  खूब  .
Modern team  formations   प्रायः  include  एक  to  तीन   आगे   ;  two is  the   सबसे   आम   .
Coaches  typically   फ़ील्ड   एक  striker who  plays  in an advanced position ( the centre  आगे  )  ,  and another attacking  आगे   जो  plays somewhat  deeper   और  assists  in  making goals  as  well as scoring  (   the  second  स्ट्राइकर   )  .
It should  be  noted that inside forwards develop from  attacking  midfield positions and  hence  are naturally midfielders .
Barcelona  fc  star Lionel  मेस्सी  is  a  typical Attacking Midfielder seen as  a   आगे  due to  उसके  shot  सटीकता   .
A California domestic partnership is a legal relationship available  to  same-sex couples  ,  and  to  certain opposite-sex couples  in   जिससे   at  least  एक  party  is   at  least  18   सालो   of   आयु  .
It affords  the   युगल   ``   the   वही  rights , protections  ,   और  benefits  ,   और  ...  the  same  जिम्मेदारियों  , obligations , and  कर्तव्य  under law ...  ''   as   शादीशुदा  spouses .
Enacted in 1999 , the  घरेलू  partnership registry  थी   the  first  of   इसके  kind in the  संयुक्त  States created  by  a  विधानमंडल  without court  हस्तक्षेप   .
Initially  ,  domestic  partnerships  enjoyed very few  privileges—principally  just  hospital-visitation  rights and the right to be claimed as a next  of   kin   of  the  एस्टेट  of  a  deceased partner .
the  legislature  रै  since  विस्तारित  the  पैमाना   of   कैलिफ़ोर्निया   घरेलू   partnerships  to  शामिल  all of the  अधिकारों  and responsibilities common to marriage .
As  ऐसे  ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  domestic  partnerships  are  functionally  equivalent to civil unions offered in several other  राज्य  .
Although the program enjoys broad support  in  California , it  रै   महरूम  the source of some controversy .
समूह   opposed   to   the   मान्यता  of same-sex families  have   challenged   the  expansion  of   घरेलू  partnerships in  अदालत  .
conversely  , advocates  of  same-sex  विवाह   contend  that anything  कम   than   पूरा   विवाह   अधिकारों  extended to  same-sex   साझेदार   is  analogous  to  the `` separate but equal ''  जातिगत  laws  of  the Jim Crow era .
Mark  A.  Jackson ( born April  1   ,   1965   )  is  an  American basketball coach , and former  खिलाड़ी   जो  is  the  current head coach  of  the Golden  राज्य   योद्धाओं  of the NBA .
a  point  गार्ड   इससे  St. John 's University  ,  he played for  the   नई  York  knicks   ,   इंडियाना   पेसर्स   ,  Los Angeles  क्लिपर्स  , Denver  टेंडर्स   ,   टोरंटो  Raptors , Utah  जैज़  and Houston  rockets  in the  एनबीए   in  a career spanning  इससे   1987  to 2004 .
जैक्सन  has also worked as a  कमेंटेटर  for ESPN and  एबीसी   alongside  his former  कोच  Jeff  वैन   gundy  and  play-by-play  man  माइक  Breen  .
he  was  previously  an  एनबीए   विश्लेषक  for The  यस   संजाल  's  नई   जर्सी   नेट  games .
South Africa has eleven  आधिकारिक  languages  :   अफ्रीकी  , English  ,  Ndebele  ,  Northern Sotho  ,  Sotho  ,  Swazi ,  tswana   ,  Tsonga , Venda , Xhosa and Zulu  .
कम  than two percent of South Africans speak a  पहला  language other than an  आधिकारिक   एक  .
सबसे   दक्षिण   africans   can  speak more than  एक   भाषा  .
Dutch  और  English were  the   पहला  official languages  of   दक्षिण  Africa  इससे  1910 to 1925  .
अफ्रीकी   थी   added   as  a part of Dutch  in   1925  .
डच   थी   replaced   by  Afrikaans when South Africa  became  a republic in  1961  ,  और   डच  was  dropped  in 1983 ,  so  between  1983  and  1994   ,   दक्षिण   अफ़्रीकी  had  दो   आधिकारिक  languages :  अंग्रेज़ी  and Afrikaans .
the   अंग्रेज़ी   संस्करण  of the South African constitution refers to  the  languages by the names in those languages  :  isiZulu ,  isixhosa   ,  Afrikaans  ,  Sepedi (  referring  to  उत्तरी   sotho  )  ,   setswana  , English ,  sesotho  ( referring  to   दक्षिणी   sotho   )   ,  Xitsonga  ,   siswati   ,  Tshivenda and isiNdebele  (  referring to  दक्षिणी  Ndebele  )  .
In South  अफ़्रीकी   ,   दक्षिणी  Ndebele is  ज्ञात   बस  as  ndebele  , as most  अध्यक्षों   of  Northern  ndebele  live in Zimbabwe  .
The 1993 version  of  the Constitution referred  to  Northern Sotho as  sesotho   sa  Leboa , but the  1996  version referred to the language  as  Sepedi  .
Different government departments  और   आधिकारिक   लाशें   उपयोग  different  शर्तें  to denote  उत्तरी  Sotho  .
the   प्रमुख  language of  सरकारी  is English even if  दक्षिण   africans  often  लो   अभिमान  in using  स्वदेशी  languages  लिये   कोई  purpose  .
अफ्रीकी  also features prominently in  कॉमर्स   साथ  with  अंग्रेज़ी  as the languages  साथ  the  उच्चतम  number  of  fluent speakers are Afrikaans and English  .
In  शर्तें  of linguistic classification  ,   the   आधिकारिक  languages include two West-Germanic languages ( English  और  Afrikaans  )   और   नौ  Bantu  भाषाएं   .
Four  of   ये   हैं  Nguni languages (  ज़ुलू  , Xhosa , Swati  और  Ndebele  )  and three are Sotho–Tswana  भाषाएं   (   उत्तरी  Sotho  ,   दक्षिणी  Sotho and  tswana  )  .
Tsonga is a Tswa–Ronga  भाषा   .
South African Sign Language is a distinct  हालांकि  incompletely emerged  नेशनल  standard language  जिससे  also subsumes a cluster of semi-standardised dialects .
Aluminium nitrate  is  a  नमक   of   एल्युमिनियम   और  nitric  एसिड   ,   मौजूदा  normally  as   a  crystalline hydrate ,  सबसे   commonly   as  aluminium  नाइट्रेट  nonahydrate ,  al  (  no3   )   3·9h2o  .
The  नई  York Jets  हैं   a   पेशेवर  football team headquartered  in   florham  Park ,  नई  Jersey  ,   representing  the New York  महानगर  area  .
The team  is   a  member of the Eastern Division  of  the  अमरीकी  Football Conference ( AFC  )  in the National Football League (  एनएफएल  ) .
In a unique arrangement for  the   लीग  ,  the  Jets share MetLife Stadium  in  East Rutherford , New Jersey  साथ   the  New York Giants .
the   मताधिकार   is   legally   और  corporately registered  as   नई   यॉर्क  Jets ,  llc  .
The team was founded  in  1959  as  the  टाइटन्स  of New York , an  असली  member  of   the   अमरीकी  Football  लीग   ;  later  ,  the franchise joined  the  NFL  in  the AFL–NFL  विलय   .
The  टोली  began to play  in  1960 at the Polo Grounds .
अंतर्गत  new ownership  ,  the current  नाम  was  अपनाया   in   1963   और  the franchise was relocated to Shea  स्टेडियम  in 1964 and  तब  to the  meadowlands   खेल  Complex  in  1984  .
the  Jets  उन्नत  to the playoffs for the first time  in   1968   और  went  on  to  compete   in  Super  कटोरी   iii  where  वे  defeated  the   बाल्टीमोर  Colts , becoming the first  afl  team to defeat an NFL club in  an  AFL-NFL World  चैंपियनशिप   खेल  .
Since 1968 ,  the   jets  have appeared  in   the   playoffs   तेरह   टाइम्स  , and in the  afc  Championship Game four times  ,   सबसे  recently losing  to  the  पिट्सबर्ग   स्टीलर्स   in  2010 .
however  ,  the   jets  have  never  returned to  the  Super  कटोरी   ,  making  उन्हें  one of three NFL  टीमों  to win  उनके  lone  सुपर   कटोरी  appearance  ,   साथ  with the  नई   ऑरलियन्स  Saints and Tampa Bay  buccaneers  .
the   टोली  's training facility ,  अटलांटिक   स्वास्थ्य  Jets Training Center ,  जिससे   खोली  in  2008   ,  is located in Florham Park .
The  टोली   फिलहाल   holds  their annual training  शिविर  sessions on  the  campus of the State University of New York at  cortland  in Cortland  ,  New York while  पकड़कर   occasional  sessions at the Florham Park complex .
Psilocybe semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms  ,  also  ज्ञात  as psychedelic  मशरूम   ,   हैं   fungi  that contain psychoactive  indole  alkaloids .
वहीँ  are multiple colloquial terms for psilocybin mushrooms  ,   the   सबसे  common being  shrooms  and  जादू   मशरूम  .
Biological  genera  containing psilocybin mushrooms include Agrocybe ,  conocybe  ,  copelandia  , Galerina ,  gerronema  , Gymnopilus , Hypholoma ,  inocybe   ,  Mycena , Panaeolus ,  pluteus   ,   और  Psilocybe .
There are approximately 190 species of psilocybin  मशरूम   और  most of  उन्हें   पतन  in  the  genus Psilocybe .
psilocybin  mushrooms  have  likely  महरूम   प्रयुक्त   चूंकि   प्रागैतिहासिक   टाइम्स  and may have been depicted  in  rock  आर्ट   .
Many cultures  have  used these  मशरूम  in  धार्मिक  rites .
In modern  पश्चिमी  society  वे   हैं  used  recreationally   लिये   उनके  psychedelic  प्रभाव  .
Recent  अध्ययन  done at Imperial  कॉलेज  London and  जॉन्स  Hopkins School  of  Medicine conclude  कि   जब  used  properly  , psilocybin  अधिनियमों  as an  anti-depressant   as  suggested by fMRI  दिमाग  scans  .
अलास्का   (   )   is  a  राज्य   in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   ,   situated   in  the  उत्तरपश्चिम  extremity of the  उत्तर   अमरीकी  continent ,  साथ  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   boundary   साथ  Canada  to  the east , the  आर्कटिक   समंदर   to  the  उत्तर   ,  and  the  Pacific  समंदर   to  the  वेस्ट  and south  ,  with  रूस  further  वेस्ट  across  the  Bering  जलसन्धि  .
Alaska is  the  largest  राज्य  in  the  United  राज्य   by  area  ,  the 4th  तनिक   populous  and the  तनिक   densely  populated of the 50  संयुक्त  States .
Approximately half of  अलास्का  's 731,449  निवासियों  live within the Anchorage  महानगर  area  .
अलास्का  's  अर्थव्यवस्था   is   वर्चस्व  by  the  oil ,  प्राकृतिक  gas , and  फ़िशिंग   उद्योग  ;  it   रै  these resources in abundance .
अलास्का   थी  purchased from  रूस   on  March 30 , 1867  ,  for $ 7.2  लाख  (  $   समायोजित   लिये  inflation ) at approximately two  सेंट  per acre  (  $ 4.74/km2 ) .
the   जमीन   गई  through  अनेक   प्रशासनिक  changes before becoming an  व्यवस्थित   (  or  incorporated  ) territory  on  May  11   ,  1912 , and  the   49th   राज्य  of  the  U.S. on January 3  ,  1959  .
the   नाम  ``  अलास्का  '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian  औपनिवेशिक   काल   ,   जब   it  was  प्रयुक्त   तभी   लिये   the   प्रायद्वीप   और  is derived from the  aleut  alaxsxaq  ,  meaning `` the mainland '' or  ,   अधिक  literally  ,  ``  the   ऑब्जेक्ट  towards which the  कार्रवाई  of  the   समुद्र  is  निर्देशित   ''  .
It  is  also  ज्ञात  as Alyeska , the `` great land '' ,  an  Aleut word  निकला   इससे  the  वही  root  .
the  101  फ्रेंच   विभाग  are divided into  342   arrondissements   ,  which  may  be translated  into  English as districts .
The capital  of   an  arrondissement/district  is   पुकारा  a subprefecture  .
When an  arrondissement  contains the  प्रीफ़ेक्चर  (  पूंजी   )  of the department , that  प्रीफ़ेक्चर  is  the  capital of  the  arrondissement ,  एक्टिंग   दोनो   as  a prefecture  और  as a  subprefecture  .
arrondissements  are  further   विभाजित  into  cantons  and  communes   .
the   योनि   (  from  लैटिन   vāgīna  ,  वस्तुतः  `` sheath  ''  or `` scabbard `` ) is a  tubular   ट्रैक्ट   जिससे  is  a   sex  organ  और  has  दो   प्रमुख  functions ; sexual intercourse  और   प्रसव  .
in   इंसानो  ,  इस  passage leads from  the   खोलने  of  the   भग  to the  गर्भाशय   (  womb )  ,  but the  vaginal   ट्रैक्ट   ends   at   the  cervix  .
Unlike  मेन  , who  have  only  एक   genital  orifice , women have two , the urethra and  the  vagina .
the  vaginal  खोलने   is   much   larger  than  the   urethral   खोलने  ,  और  both  उद्घाटन  are protected  by   the  labia .
the  inner  सांचे  of the  योनि  has  a  foldy texture  जिससे  can create friction for the penis during  मैथुन  .
दौरान   arousal  , the  योनि  gets moist  to  facilitate  the  entrance  of  the  शिश्न  .
the   latinate  plural  ``  vaginae  ''   is  rarely  प्रयुक्त   in   अंग्रेज़ी  .
colloquially  , the  शब्द  vagina is  प्रायः   प्रयुक्त  to  refer  to the vulva or to the female  गुप्तांग   in  general  .
However , by  इसके   शब्दकोष  and anatomical definitions , vagina refers exclusively  to   the   विशिष्ट   आतंरिक  structure .
The Cincinnati Reds are a  प्रमुख  League  बेसबॉल   टोली   आधारित  in  सिनसिनाटी   ,   ओहियो  .
They  हैं  members  of  the National  लीग  Central Division  .
स्थापित   in  1881  as  an independent  क्लबों   ,   the  team  became  a  चार्टर  member of  the   अमरीकी  Association in  1882   ,  and  joined   the   नेशनल   लीग  in 1890 .
the  club traditionally traces  इसके  origin  to   बेसबॉल  's  पहला  openly professional team in 1869  .
The  लाल  have  जीती   पाँच  World Series  शीर्षक  , one American Association  pennant   ,   नौ  National  लीग   pennants  and ten  प्रभाग  titles .
The  लाल  played in the National  लीग  West between 1969 and 1993 and  have  been in the National League Central  चूंकि  1994  .
Since  2003   ,   the  Reds  have   निभाई   at  Great American  बॉल   पार्क  ,  निर्मित  next  to  their home from 1970 to  2002   ,  Riverfront  स्टेडियम  .
Bob  castellini   रै  owned the Cincinnati Reds  चूंकि  2006  .
a  prank  बदबू  bomb  .
A stink  बमबारी   is   a  device  designed  to create  an   अप्रिय   महकते   .
They  दायरा   in  effectiveness  इससे  simple  pranks  to  सैन्य  grade  malodorants  or riot control  रासायनिक  agents .
The Guinness Book of Records  सूचियाँ   दो  smelliest  substances   .
एक  is `` US Government Standard  बाथरूम  Malodor  ''  ;  a  mixture of  आठ   रसायन  with  a  stench  resembling   इंसान  feces  ,  only much  stronger   ,   designed   to  test the  efficacy   of   deodorizers   और   एयर   fresheners  .
Another  एक  ,  ``  Who me ?  ``  , is a  मिश्रण   of  five sulfur-containing  रसायन  and  खुश्बू  like  rotting   खाना  and carcasses .
the   कहावत  `` A picture  is   लायक  a thousand  शब्द   ''  refers to  the  notion  कि   a  complex  विचार   can  be  conveyed  with just a single  स्टिल  image .
It  भी   aptly  characterizes one of  the   प्रमुख  goals  of   कल्पना  , namely making it  संभावित  to absorb large amounts  of  data quickly .
The  अभिव्यक्ति   ``   उपयोग   a   चित्र  .
It 's worth  a  thousand words . '' appears  in  a 1911 newspaper article quoting newspaper  एडिटर   आर्थर   ब्रिसबेन  discussing journalism and  publicity   .
1913  समाचारपत्र   विज्ञापन
a  similar phrase , `` One Look Is Worth  a  Thousand Words '' , appears  in  a 1913 newspaper advertisement  लिये  the  piqua   स्वचालित  Supply House of Piqua ,  ओहियो  .
An  जल्दी  use of  the  exact  phrase   appears   in  an 1918  समाचारपत्र  advertisement  लिये   the  San  अंतोनियो  Light which  says   :  One of the Nation  's   महानतम  Editors Says : One Picture  is  Worth a  हजार   शब्द  The  सैन  Antonio Light 's Pictorial Magazine  of  the War Exemplifies the truth of  the  above statement --  judging  from the  गरम   रिसेप्शन   it  has  प्राप्त  at the hands of the Sunday Light readers  .
It is  believed  by some  कि  the  आधुनिक   उपयोग  of  the  phrase  तना   इससे   an   आलेख  by  फ्रेड  R. Barnard in the advertising  व्यापार  journal Printers '  स्याही  ,  promoting  the use of images  in   विज्ञापन  that appeared  on   the  sides of  streetcars  .
The December  8  , 1921 issue  carries  an ad  हकदार  ,  ``   एक  Look is Worth  a  Thousand Words .  ''
another  ad  by  Barnard appears in the March 10  ,  1927 issue  साथ  the  phrase  ``  एक  Picture  लायक  Ten Thousand  शब्द   ,  '' where  it   is  labeled a Chinese  कहावत  (  一圖勝萬言   )  .
The Home  किताब  of  proverbs  , Maxims  ,   और  Familiar Phrases quotes  बर्नार्ड  as saying he  पुकारा  it `` a Chinese proverb , so  कि  people would  लो   it  seriously . ''
जल्द  after  ,  the  कहावत  would become  popularly  attributed to  कन्फ्यूशियस  .
The  चर्चा  of `` One Picture  लायक  Thousand Words ''  बनाम   ``  One Picture  लायक   टेन   हजार  Words '' Wan yen  i  hua and 10.000  मील   लायक  10.000 books is cited in Information graphics where the concept of many  in   अलग   disciplines  and  संस्कृतियों  .
A picture is worth a  हजार  words
Despite this modern  उत्पत्ति  of the popular phrase ,  the   भावना  has been expressed by  पहले  writers .
For  उदाहरण   the  Russian  लेखक  Ivan Turgenev wrote  (  in Fathers and Sons  in  1862  )  , `` A  चित्र   shows  me at  a  glance  कया  it takes dozens  of   पृष्ठों  of a book  to  expound  .   ''
Computer programmer  और   लेखक  Fred Brooks makes an opposite statement regarding programming in The Mythical Man-Month :  ``  Show me your  flowcharts   और   छिपाते  your  टेबल   ,  and I shall  continue  to be mystified .
दिखाएँ  me  अपना   टेबल   ,   और  I won’t  प्रायः  need your flowcharts  ;  they’ll  be   स्पष्ट   .  ''
The phrase has also been spoofed by  जॉन  McCarthy  ,  the  प्रसिद्ध   कंप्यूटर  scientist  ,  to  मेक   the  opposite point :  ``  As the Chinese say  ,   1001   शब्द   is  worth more than a  चित्र  .  ''
a   ऋतु  is  a  subdivision  of   the  year , marked by  परिवर्तन  in weather , ecology , and hours  of  daylight  .
Seasons  परिणाम  from the yearly  क्रान्ति  of the Earth  around  the Sun  और   the   झुकाव  of the Earth 's axis  सापेक्ष   to   the  plane  of   क्रान्ति   .
in  temperate and  ध्रुवीय  regions  ,   the  seasons are marked  by   परिवर्तन  in  the   तीव्रता   of  sunlight that  पहुँच   the  Earth  's  surface  ,  variations of which  may  cause  पशु   to   go   into  hibernation or to  migrate  ,  और  plants  to   be   dormant  .
During May , June and July  ,  the  उत्तरी   गोलार्ध  is  उजागर  to more direct sunlight because  the  hemisphere faces  the   सूर्य  .
The same  is   सच्चा   of  the southern hemisphere in November ,  दिसम्बर  and  जनवरी   .
it   is   the  tilt of the Earth  कि  causes the Sun to  be  higher in the  आसमान  during the summer months which increases the solar  फ्लक्स  .
however  , due to  मौसमी  lag  ,  June ,  जुलाई   और  August are  the   hottest   महीने  in  the   उत्तरी  hemisphere and  दिसम्बर  , January and February  हैं   the  hottest months  in  the southern  गोलार्ध  .
In  शीतोष्ण   और  subpolar regions , generally four calendar  -आधारd   सीज़न  ( with their adjectives )  हैं  recognized : spring  (  vernal ) , summer (  estival   )  ,  पतझड़   (  autumnal )  और  winter  (  hibernal ) .
However ,  ecologists   ज़्यादातर   उपयोग  a six  ऋतु  model  लिये  temperate climate regions  कि   शामिल   pre-spring  ( prevernal ) and  लेट   गर्मियाँ  (  serotinal  )  as   पृथक  seasons along with  the   परंपरागत  four .
Hot regions have  दो  or  तीन   सीज़न  ; the rainy (  or  wet , or monsoon  )   ऋतु  and  the  dry season , and  in  some tropical areas  ,  a  कूल   or   mild   ऋतु  .
in   कुछ  parts of  the  world , special `` seasons  ''  are  loosely   पारिभाषित  based on important  कार्यक्रम  such as  a   hurricane   ऋतु  , tornado season  or  a wildfire season .
The  छह  ecological seasons
The four calendar seasons , depicted  in   an   प्राचीन  Roman mosaic  इससे  Tunisia
Dutch  निर्यात  in 2006
at  the  समय   of   लिखने   the   नीदरलैंड्स  is the 17th  largest  economy  of  the  संसार  .
( see : List  of  countries by GDP ( nominal )  )
जीडीपी  per capita is roughly  $  42,000  जिससे  puts  it   in   the  top 10  of  richest  राष्ट्र   in  the world  (  see : List  of  countries by GDP ( PPP ) per  capita  ) .
between  1996  और  2000  सालाना   आर्थिक   विकास  (  जीडीपी  )  averaged  over  4   %   ,  well above the European average .
Growth slowed considerably in 2001-05  as   भाग   of  the  वैश्विक   आर्थिक  slowdown  .
2006  और  2007  however  showed economic growth  of  3.4 % and 3.9 %  .
The  डच  economy was  hit  considerably  by  the ongoing global  वित्तीय  crisis and  the   ensuing  European debt crisis  .
अनेक  banks  गई   दिवालिया  , and a number of  अन्य  had  to   प्राप्त   सरकारी   सहायता  .
in  2009 the economy  अस्वीकृत   साथ  3.5  %   ,  followed by two years of  mild  growth .
the   डच  economy is  फिलहाल  in a recession  again  , with  an  economic decline of 0.5 % in  2012   .
Inflation is  at  3.2  %  in  फ़रवरी  2013  .
बेरोजगारी   रै   महरूम  relatively  कम  compared to  अन्य   eu   राष्ट्र  for decades but after mid-2012 it  रै  seen a fast increase  और   in  February 2013  it   रै   hit   7.7   %   .
The Netherlands managed to maintain  इसके   aaa   दरजा   at  least  जबतक  March  2013   according  to  the  three  प्रमुख   क्रेडिट  rating  एजेंसियों   .
Historically , the  डच   introduced   और  invented the stock market  by  the merchandise  व्यापार   through   डच   वेस्ट  India Company  .
The Netherlands is a founding member  of   the   यूरोपीय  Union  ,  the OECD  और  the  संसार   व्यापार  Organization .
वफ़ादार  to the Game  is   the  tenth studio  एल्बम  and sixth  स्टुडियो  album  by  Tupac  shakur  .
it   contains  remixes of previously  unreleased  music  अंकित  by Shakur  पहले  his death in 1996  .
Released in the United States  on   दिसम्बर  14 ,  2004   (  December 12  in  the United  किंगडम   )  , Loyal  to  the  खेल  was produced by Eminem  .
The original  फलक   of   the  View  ;  Meredith  vieira  , Star Jones , Debbie Matenopoulos  और  Barbara  walters  in  1997  .
the  View is an  अमरीकी  talk show broadcast on  एबीसी   कि   debuted  in  1997  as part  of   the   संजाल   's  daytime programming block .
Created by Barbara Walters and  विधेयक   geddie  ,  जो  both  भी   serve   as  the show 's executive producers ,  the   कार्यक्रम  features  a  panel of women as co-hosts .
Along  साथ   walters  ,  the   वर्तमान  panel includes  whoopi  Goldberg , who serves  as   the   मॉडरेटर  ,  आनन्द  Behar , Elisabeth Hasselbeck , and Sherri Shepherd .
International versions of  the  program  हैं  aired  in  several countries .
as  of the  2012–13  season  ,  its  16th  , The View  is   the  fourth-longest  कार्यशील   नेशनल   दिन  talk show  in   इतिहास   ,  behind  the   फिल   donahue   दिखाएँ  (  29   )  , the  variously-named  Live  !
कार्यक्रम  (  25  )  ,  and The Oprah  विनफ्रे  Show  (  25 )  .
Prunus virginiana , commonly called  bitter-berry  , chokecherry ,  वर्जिनिया  bird cherry and western  chokecherry  (  भी  black chokecherry for  P.  virginiana  var   .  demissa  )  , is  a   प्रजाति   of  bird cherry  (  Prunus subgenus Padus )  देशी  to  उत्तर   अमेरिका  ;  the   प्राकृतिक   ऐतिहासिक  range  of  P.  virginiana  includes  सबसे  of  the  continent ,  मगर  for  the   दूर   उत्तर  and far south .
लॉस   एंजिल्स  International Airport  is   the  primary airport serving the Greater  लॉस   एंजिल्स   क्षेत्रफल  , the  second-most   आबादी  metropolitan area in the United States .
it   is  most often referred to by its IATA airport  कोड   lax  , with the  अक्षर   सुनाया   individually   .
LAX  is  located  in   southwestern  Los Angeles  साथ  the Pacific coast in the neighborhood  of   westchester   ,  from the  शहर  core and  is  the  प्राथमिक  airport  of   लॉस   एंजिल्स  World Airports (  lawa  ) ,  an   एजेंसी  of the  लॉस  Angeles  नगर   सरकारी  formerly  ज्ञात  as the  विभाग   of  Airports .
In 2011  ,  LAX  थी   the   छठे   व्यस्ततम  airport  in   the  world  बाद   hartsfield-jackson   अटलांटा  International Airport  ,  Beijing  पूंजी   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   विमानक्षेत्र  , London Heathrow  विमानक्षेत्र   ,   शिकागो  O'Hare  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport , and  टोकियो   haneda   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   विमानक्षेत्र  with 61,862,052 passengers  .
the  airport holds the  अर्जी  for  ``  the  संसार   's   व्यस्ततम  origin and destination  (  O  &  D ) airport  ''  in 2011  कि   involves  non-connecting passenger  ट्रैफ़िक  .
It  is  also the only airport to rank among  the   शीर्ष  five  u.S.   एयरपोर्ट  for both passenger and cargo traffic  .
lax  is  the   व्यस्ततम   विमानक्षेत्र  in the  वृहद  Los Angeles Area , but other airports  सहित  Bob Hope  विमानक्षेत्र  , John  वेन   विमानक्षेत्र  , Long Beach  विमानक्षेत्र  ,  la/ontario   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   विमानक्षेत्र   ,  and  ताड़   स्रोतों   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport also serve the region  .
LAX is also  the  busiest airport in California and the  वेस्ट   coast  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  in terms of  उड़ान  operations ,  यात्री  traffic and air cargo activity , leading  it  to  be   referred  to as  the   ``  Gateway  to  the  प्रशांत  Rim  ``   .
peyton  Williams  मैनिंग  (  born   कूच   24  , 1976  )  is  an  American football quarterback for the Denver Broncos of the National  फ़ुटबॉल  League  (   एनएफएल  )  .
He played for the Indianapolis Colts  लिये  14  सीज़न  from  1998   to  2011 .
he  is the son of former NFL  क्वार्टरबैक  Archie Manning and an elder  bhai   of  New York Giants quarterback  एली   मैनिंग  .
Manning played  कॉलेज  football  लिये  the University of Tennessee , leading the  स्वयंसेवक  to the 1997 SEC  चैंपियनशिप  in  उसके  senior season .
however  , No . 3  टेनेसी  lost  to  the No  .   2   नेब्रास्का  Cornhuskers  42-17  in the  नारंगी   कटोरी  giving  नेब्रास्का  and Tom  ओसबोर्न   उनके  3rd  नेशनल  championship  in   4  years .
He was chosen by  the   इंडियानापोलिस  Colts with  the  first overall pick  in  the 1998  एनएफएल   ड्राफ्ट   .
इससे  1998  to  2010  ,   he  led  the  Colts  to   आठ   (   सात  AFC South  और  one  afc  East ) division  championships   ,  two AFC championships , and to  a   सुपर   कटोरी   चैंपियनशिप  ( Super Bowl  xli   )  .
he  has won a record four league most  मूल्यवान   खिलाड़ी  awards  ,  was the most  मूल्यवान   खिलाड़ी   of   सुपर  Bowl XLI ,  रै  been  नामित   to  twelve Pro  प्याले   ,  has twelve 4,000-yard passing seasons ,  और  is the  इंडियानापोलिस  Colts ' all-time leader in passing yards  (   54,828  )  और  touchdown  गुजरता  ( 399  )  .
in  2009 , he was named the best player in the  एनएफएल  and  फॉक्स  Sports along with  खेल  Illustrated named him the NFL  खिलाड़ी   of  the decade of  the   2000s  .
in  May 2011  ,   he  underwent neck surgery  to  alleviate  गर्दन  pain and  भुजा   कमज़ोरी   he   dealt  with during  the   पिछला   few  seasons  पहले  signing  a   five-year  , $ 90 million contract extension with the  कोल्टस  in July 2011 .
मैनिंग   था  hoped to play in the 2011 season ,  लकिन  in September  2011   ,   he   underwent  a much  अधिक  serious second surgery : a  स्तर   एक   सर्वाइकल  fusion procedure .
Manning had never missed  an  NFL  खेल  in his career , but was forced to miss the entire  2011   ऋतु  .
He  थी  released by  the  Colts  on  March 7 ,  2012   ,  and  बाद   an  almost  two-week  period  जहाँ  he visited  साथ   और  worked  आउट   लिये   अनेक  NFL teams , he signed  साथ   the  Denver Broncos on March  20   ,  2012 .
मैनिंग  's pre-snap  दिनचर्या  has  अर्जित  him  the  nickname , `` The Sheriff  ''  and  is  one of  the  most recognizable and  parodied  in the  एनएफएल  .
the  Indianapolis  कोल्टस  '  लगभग  exclusive use of the hurry-up offense led  to   मैनिंग  using  an   सरणी  of  इशारों  and  मौखिक  commands  to  call the play  at  the  लकीर   of  scrimmage rather  than  in the huddle  .
the  America  मीनार  of the  अमरीकी   सामान्य  Center ,  the   मुख्यालय  of Baker Hughes
Baker Hughes  is   एक   of  the world  's  largest  oilfield  services companies  .
it  operates in  over  90 countries  ,   providing  the  आयल   और  gas industry  साथ   उत्पाद   और  services for drilling ,  गठन   मूल्यांकन  ,  पूर्णता   ,  production and reservoir  परामर्श  .
Baker Hughes has  इसके   मुख्यालय  in the America Tower in the American  सामान्य   बीच   in  Neartown  ,  Houston  .
Baker  ह्यूजेस   incorporated  was formed when  बेकर  International  और   ह्यूजेस  Tool Company merged  in   1987  .
Baker Hughes operates  विश्वव्यापी   साथ  major  कार्यालयों  in Liverpool , United Kingdom ;  सिंगापुर   ;   दुबई  ;  a  research  और  maintenance facility  in   celle  , Germany ;  lafayette   ,   louisiana  ;  ह्यूस्टन   ,  Texas ;  pescara  , Italy ; and Kuala  lumpur  ,  मलेशिया  .
The  कम्पनी   is  administered  broadly  in two  बांटती  :  the  eastern hemisphere  साथ   पाँच   regions  (  यूरोपीय  , Africa ,  the   मध्य  East ,  एशिया  Pacific  और  Russia/Caspian )  और  the western hemisphere with four  regions  (  कनाडा  , US Land , US Gulf  ,  and  लैटिन  America ) .
Each of these regions  is  subdivided  into  markets .
The  संयुक्त  States one- cent coin  ,   commonly  known  as   a   पैनी  ,  is  a  ईकाई  of currency equaling one one-hundredth  of  a United States  डालर   .
The cent 's  प्रतीक   is  ¢ .
Its obverse  रै  featured  the   प्रोफ़ाइल   of   अध्यक्ष   अब्राहम  Lincoln  चूंकि   1909   ,  the  centennial   of   उसके   जनम  .
इससे  1959  (   the   sesquicentennial  of  lincoln  's  जनम  ) to 2008  ,  the  रिवर्स   प्रदर्शित   the   lincoln   मेमोरियल  .
Four  अलग  reverse designs  in   2009  honored Lincoln  's  200th  जन्मदिवस  and  a  new ,  स्थाई   रिवर्स  –  the   संघ   शील्ड   –  was introduced  in  2010 .
the  coin is 0.75 inches  (  19.05  mm  )  in   व्यास  and  0.061   इंच  (  1.55  mm  )  in thickness  .
The U.S. Mint 's  आधिकारिक   नाम  for  a  penny is ``  ''   और  the  u.S.   राजकोष  's official name  is  `` one cent piece  ''  .
The colloquial term penny derives from the British coin  of  the same name ,  the  pre-decimal version  of  which  था   a  similar  मान  .
In American  अंग्रेज़ी   ,  pennies is the  बहुवचन  form , other plural forms  पेंस  and  पेशाब   (  standard use in British  अंग्रेज़ी   )  are not  प्रयुक्त  .
as  of  2012   ,   it   लागत  the U.S. Mint 2.00  सेंट  to  मेक   a  cent  क्युकी   of  the cost of materials  और  production  .
इस   फिगर  includes  the   mint’s  fixed components for  वितरण  and fabrication  ,  estimated at $ 13  लाख  in  fy   2011   .
It also includes Mint overhead allocated  to  the penny  ,  which  थी  $ 17.7 million for  2011  .
Fixed costs  और   ओवरहेड   होता   have   to  be  अवशोषित   by   अन्य   circulating  coins without the  पैनी  .
the  loss in  profitability   due  to  producing  the one  cent  coin  in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   लिये  the year  of  2012  थी  $ 58,000,000 .
This was a  पतला   घटी   इससे  2011  ,  the year before  ,  which had a production loss  of  $  60,200,000  .
or   अधिक  specifically ,  हैं  ornamental varieties  of  domesticated  आम   कार्प  (  cyprinus  carpio ) that  हैं  kept  लिये  decorative purposes  in  outdoor  कोई  ponds  or  water gardens .
Koi varieties  हैं   विशिष्ट  by coloration , patterning , and scalation  .
कुछ  of the major colors  हैं  white  ,  black ,  रेड  , yellow , blue ,  और  cream .
The  सबसे   लोकप्रिय  category  of  koi is the Gosanke , which is  बना   up  of  the   kohaku   ,  Taisho  sanshoku   ,   और  Showa  sanshoku  varieties .
the   अमरीकी   संघ   of  Government  कर्मचारी  (  afge  ) is an American labor union representing over  650,000  employees of  the   संघीय  government  ,   परिचय  5,000  कर्मचारी   of   the  District of Columbia  ,   और  a  few  hundred private sector employees  ,   ज़्यादातर  in and around  संघीय   सुविधाएं  .
AFGE  is   the   largest   संघ   लिये  civilian ,  non-   डाक  federal  कर्मचारी   और  the largest union  लिये  District  of  Columbia  कर्मचारी   जो  report directly  to  the mayor  (   i.e.   ,   बाहर  of D.C.  पब्लिक   स्कूलों   )  .
it  is affiliated  साथ  the  afl-cio  .
A late Silurian sporangium .
Green : A spore tetrad  .
Blue  :   a   spore  bearing  a  trilete  चिह्नित  – the -shaped  scar  .
the  spores are about  30-35   μm  across
The evolution  of  plants has resulted  in   increasing  levels of complexity ,  इससे   the  earliest  algal  mats  ,  through  bryophytes  , lycopods ,  ferns  to  the  complex gymnosperms  और  angiosperms of  आज  .
जबकि  many  of   the  groups which appeared  पहले   continue  to thrive , especially  in  the environments in  जिससे   वे   विकसित   ,   लिये  a time each  नई   ग्रेड  of  संगठन  became more `` successful  ''   than  its predecessors .
In  the   ordovician   काल   ,   around  , the  पहला  land plants  appeared   .
ये  began to diversify in the  लेट  Silurian Period ,  around  , and  the   परिणाम   of  their diversification are  प्रदर्शित  in remarkable  विवरण   in  an early Devonian fossil assemblage  इससे  the Rhynie chert .
This chert preserved early  पौधे  in cellular  विवरण  ,  petrified   in  volcanic springs .
By  the   मध्य  of  the  Devonian Period , most  of  the features recognised  in  plants today  हैं  present , including roots  ,  leaves  और   द्वितीयक  wood  ;  and , by late  devonian  times  ,  seeds  था   विकसित   .
Late  devonian  plants had thereby reached  a   उपाधि  of sophistication that allowed them to  रूप  forests  of   लम्बा  trees .
Evolutionary  नवीनता  continued into  the  Carboniferous  काल  and is  स्टिल  ongoing today .
Most plant  समूह   यहूद   अपेक्षाकृत  unscathed by the  permo-triassic   extinction  event  ,   हालांकि  the structures  of   समुदायों   बदला  .
This may have set the  झाँकी  for  the  appearance  of   the  flowering plants  in  the Triassic (  ~   )   ,   और  their  बाद  diversification in the Cretaceous  और   paleogene  .
The latest  प्रमुख  group of  पौधे   to  evolve were the grasses ,  जिससे   became  important in  the  mid-Paleogene  ,   इससे  around  .
the  grasses , as  खूब  as  अनेक  other groups  ,   विकसित   नई   mechanisms  of  चयापचय  to survive  the  low and warm , dry conditions  of  the tropics  over   the  last .
The winning Super Bowl  टोली   receives   the  Vince  लोम्बार्डी  Trophy  .
The Super Bowl  is  an annual American  फ़ुटबॉल  game that  determines  the champion of the National  फ़ुटबॉल   लीग  ( NFL )  .
the  contest  is   आयोजित  in an American  नगर  that is  चुनी  three to four years beforehand , usually in warm-weather or  domed  sites  .
चूंकि   1971   ,   the  winner of the American Football Conference (  afc  ) Championship Game  रै   faced   the  winner of the National  फ़ुटबॉल   सम्मेलन   (   nfc   )  Championship  खेल  in the culmination of the NFL  playoffs  .
Before the 1970  विलय   between   the  American Football  लीग  ( AFL  )   और  the National Football League (  एनएफएल  ) , the  दो   लीग  met  in  four such contests .
the   पहला  two were known as  the  `` AFL-NFL World Championship Game . ''
सुपर  Bowl III in 1969 was the first such  खेल  that  carried  the ``  सुपर  Bowl '' moniker ,  the   names  `` Super  कटोरी  I  ``  and ``  सुपर   कटोरी   ii  ``  यहूद  retroactively applied to  the   पहला  two  खेल  .
the   nfc  /NFL leads  in   सुपर   कटोरी  wins  साथ  25 ,  जबकि   the  AFC /AFL  रै  won 22  .
Eighteen different  franchises  ,  सहित  teams that relocated to another  नगर   ,  have won the  सुपर   कटोरी  .
The  पिट्सबर्ग   स्टीलर्स  have  जीती   the  most  सुपर  Bowls  साथ   छह  championships  (   रिकार्ड   6–2  )  ,   जबकि  both  the  Dallas Cowboys and San Francisco  49ers  have five  विन्स  each ( Cowboys  5–3   ;  49ers 5–1 )  .
डलास  and Pittsburgh  have  the most Super Bowl appearances with  आठ  , while  the  Buffalo  बिल्स   have   the  most consecutive  दिखावे   साथ  four  नुकसान  in a row from 1990 to 1993 .
The New  इंग्लैण्ड  Patriots  ,  Denver  broncos   और   मिनेसोटा  Vikings  have  also  खोया   a   रिकार्ड   चार   सुपर  Bowls .
Buffalo  और  Minnesota are both 0–4 ,  डेनवर   is  2–4 and  नई   इंग्लैण्ड  is  3–4   .
the   रिकार्ड  for consecutive  विन्स  is  दो   और   is   साझा  by seven franchises :  the   1966-67   ग्रीन  Bay  पैकर्स   ,  the 1972-73  मियामी  Dolphins  ,   the  1974-75 and 1978-79 Pittsburgh Steelers ( the only  टोली   to  accomplish  इस  feat  twice  )  ,   the   1988-89  San  फ्रांसिस्को  49ers , the 1992-93  डलास  Cowboys  ,   the   1997-98  Denver  broncos  ,  और  the  2003-04  New England Patriots .
the  only team with multiple Super  कटोरी  appearances  और  no losses is the  बाल्टीमोर   ravens   ,   जो   in  winning Super Bowl  xlvii  unseated and replaced  the  49ers in that position .
चार  current NFL teams have  never  appeared in a Super Bowl , including  मताधिकार   relocations  and  renaming  : the Cleveland Browns ,  डेट्रॉयट   शेर   ,  Jacksonville Jaguars  ,   और   ह्यूस्टन  Texans , though  दोनो  the  भूरा  and Lions  था  won NFL  चैंपियनशिप   खेल  prior  to  the creation of the  सुपर  Bowl .
Martin  काउंटी  is  a   काउंटी   स्तिथ  in  the  U.S. state of  टेक्सास  .
as  of the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी   ,   इसके   जनसांख्यिकी  was 4,799  .
Its  सीट  is Stanton  .
The  काउंटी  is  नामित  for  wylie   मार्टिन  ,  an   जल्दी  settler  .
Martin County is  एक   of   30   निषेध   ,  or  entirely  dry , counties in the state of Texas  .
क्षारीय   phosphatase  ( ALP  ,  ALKP  )  (  )  is a hydrolase  एंजाइम  responsible for  निकालना   फास्फेट  groups from  अनेक  types of  अणुओं   ,  including  nucleotides  , proteins , and alkaloids  .
the  process of  निकालना   the  phosphate  समूह   is   पुकारा  dephosphorylation  .
As  the   नाम   suggests   ,   क्षारीय  phosphatases are most  प्रभावी  in an alkaline  पर्यावरण  .
It is sometimes used  synonymously   as  basic phosphatase  .
triticale  ( ×  triticosecale   )  ,  (  )  is  a hybrid  of   गेहूं   (  Triticum  )  and rye ( Secale  )   पहला   करवाया  in  laboratories  during  the  late 19th  सदी   .
the   अनाज  was originally bred in  स्कॉटलैंड  and Sweden  .
commercially   उपलब्धियाँ  triticale  is   लगभग  always  a  second  पीढी   संकर  , i.e.  ,  a  क्रॉस   between  two  kinds  of primary  (  first cross ) triticales  .
as  a rule  ,   triticale   combines  the yield  संभावित  and grain  विशेषता   of   गेहूं   साथ   the  disease  और  environmental tolerance  (  including  मृदा   शर्तें  ) of rye  .
Only recently has it been  विकसित  into  a  commercially viable  क्रॉप  .
Depending on the cultivar , triticale can more  or   कम   resemble   either  of its parents  .
it  is grown mostly for forage or  चारा   ,  although some  triticale-based   भोजन  can be purchased  at   स्वास्थ्य   खाना   स्टोर्स  or are to  be  found in some  नाश्ता   cereals   .
When crossing  गेहूं   और   rye  ,  गेहूं   is  used  as  the female  जनक  and  rye  as  the  male parent ( pollen  दाता  )  .
the  resulting hybrid is sterile ,  और  must be  treated   साथ   colchicine  to induce polyploidy and thus  the   क्षमता   to  reproduce itself .
The  प्राथमिक  producers  of  triticale  हैं  Poland  ,   जर्मनी  , France , Belarus  और   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
In  2009  ,  according   to  the  खाना  and Agriculture Organization (  fao  )  ,  15.0 million tons were harvested in  29   देशों  across the world .
The triticale hybrids are  सब  amphidiploid , which  अर्थात्  the plant  is  diploid for  दो  genomes derived  इससे   अलग  species .
In other  शब्द   ,   triticale   is  an  allotetraploid  .
in  earlier years  ,   सबसे  work  थी   किया  on octoploid triticale .
Different  ploidy   स्तर  have  महरूम  created and evaluated over time .
The tetraploids showed little  वादा  , but hexaploid triticale  थी  successful enough to  ढूँढें  commercial  अनुप्रयोग  .
the   cimmyt  triticale  सुधार  program wanted to  improve  food production  और   पोषण   in   विकासशील   देशों  .
Triticale has  संभावित  in  the   उत्पादन   of  bread and other food products , such  as  cookies  ,   पास्ता  , pizza  आटा  and breakfast cereals  .
the   प्रोटीन   सामग्री  is  उच्चतर   than   कि   of   गेहूं  , although the glutenin  भिन्न   is   कम   .
the  grain  रै  also been  stated  to have higher levels of lysine than wheat .
Assuming increased  स्वीकृति  , the  मिलिंग   उद्योग  will have to adapt to triticale , as  the  milling techniques  employed  for wheat are  मुलम्मा  to triticale  .
Sell et al  .  found  triticale   could  be used as a feed grain ,  और  later research found its starch was  विशेषकर   readily   पचता  .
as   a   फीड  grain  ,   triticale  is already  खूब  established and of high economic  महत्व  .
It  रै  received  ध्यान  as a  संभावित  energy  क्रॉप  ,  और   शोध   is  currently being  conducted   on  the  उपयोग  of the  क्रॉप  's biomass in  bioethanol   उत्पादन  .
``  Puff  ,  the Magic  ड्रैगन  '' is a song  लिखा  by Leonard  lipton  and Peter Yarrow , and made popular  by   yarrow   's  group Peter  ,  Paul and Mary in  a  1963  रिकॉर्डिंग  .
The song  हासिल  great  लोकप्रियता  .
a  college  फ़ुटबॉल  national  चैंपियनशिप  in  the  highest level of  कॉलेजिएट  play in the United  राज्य  ,  फिलहाल  the  नेशनल   कॉलेजिएट   एथलेटिक  Association ( NCAA )  प्रभाग   i   फ़ुटबॉल  Bowl Subdivision  (  FBS  )  , is a  नामांकन  awarded annually by  विभिन्न  third-party  संगठन  to their selection (  s   )   of   the  best college football  टोली   (  s  )  .
Division  i  FBS  (  formerly  प्रभाग   i-a  ) football  is  the only  ncaa  sport  in   जिससे   a   वार्षिक  champion  is  not  संकल्पित   by  an NCAA  मंजूर   चैंपियनशिप  event  .
Because  the  championship team is not  संकल्पित   by   a  NCAA  चैंपियनशिप  or  टूर्नामेंट  event ,  it  is sometimes  unofficially  referred  to  as a `` mythical national championship `` .
Since the  ncaa  , the sport  's   शासी  body , does  नहीं   determine  or declare  a  national  चैंपियन  in this  फ़ील्ड   ,   determination  of such has often engendered controversy .
a   चैंपियनशिप   टोली  is independently declared  by   विभिन्न  individuals and  संगठन   ,  often referred to as ``  चयनकर्ताओं  '' .
These  चुनाव  are sometimes at odds with each other  .
While the NCAA has never officially  endorsed  an annual championship team  ,  it has documented  the  choices of several  चयनकर्ताओं  in the  आधिकारिक  NCAA  फ़ुटबॉल   कटोरी  Subdivision Records  .
In addition , various third party analysts have independently published  उनके  own  सूचियाँ   of  what  वे   have  determined to  be  the most legitimate selections for  प्रत्येक   ऋतु   .
ये  are also often at odds with  प्रत्येक   अन्य   as   खूब   as  individual  स्कूल  's  दावा  on  नेशनल   championships   ,  which ,  लिये  any particular season , may  or  may  नहीं   correlate  to the selections published elsewhere .
Currently ,  दो   widely   पहचाना  national  champions  selectors  हैं   the   संबद्ध  Press , which conducts a poll  of  football sportswriters ,  और  the  यूएसए   आज  Coaches '  पोल   ,  a poll of American  फ़ुटबॉल  Coaches Association active coaches  कि  is contractually obligated to  नाम  the  विजेता  of  the  Bowl  चैंपियनशिप  Series championship  खेल   as  its national  चैंपियन   .
The Milwaukee  ब्रेवर्स  are a professional baseball  टोली   आधारित   in   मिल्वौकी   ,   विस्कॉन्सिन   .
The team  is  a member of the  सेंट्रल   प्रभाग   of   प्रमुख  League Baseball 's  नेशनल   लीग   और   plays   इसके  home games  at  Miller Park  .
The team  is  so  नामित  because  of  the city 's  संघ  with the brewing industry .
The Washington Nationals are  a  professional baseball team based in Washington ,  d.c  .
the   नागरिकों  are  a  member  of   the  East  प्रभाग   of  the National League of  प्रमुख  League Baseball  (  MLB  )   .
The team 's home ballpark is  नागरिकों  Park  ,  located  on   दक्षिण  Capitol Street in Southeast  d.C.   ,  near the Anacostia  नदी  .
The park  खोली   in   2008   ,   replacing  RFK Stadium ,  the  team  's   घर   इससे  2005  to   2007   .
The  नागरिकों   '   नाम  derives from the former Washington baseball  टोली  that had the same name ( used interchangeably with Senators  )  .
Their  उपनाम  is `` the  nats  '' —a shortened version  कि  was also  प्रयुक्त  by the old D.C.  टीमों  .
An  विस्तार  franchise  ,  the club was  संस्थापित   in  as the  मॉन्ट्रियल  Expos  ,   the   पहला  major league  टोली  in  कनाडा   .
They  यहूद  based in Montreal , Quebec ,  और  played their home games  at   jarry  Park Stadium and later  in  Olympic Stadium  .
in   ,  the  expos  won a division  चैंपियनशिप  , won their first-ever playoff series by  defeating  the  फिलाडेल्फिया   फ़िलीज़  , 3–2  ,   और   उन्नत  to the  नेशनल  League  चैंपियनशिप  Series  ,  where  वे  would  go  on to lose to the Los Angeles Dodgers  ,   3–2  , in  उनके  only postseason appearance during the  strike-shortened  season .
The Expos had their  उच्चतम   जीतना  percentage in  the  strike-shortened season of  ,   जब   the  team had  the  best  रिकार्ड  in  बेसबॉल   .
the  team  's  subsequent shedding of players  caused  fan interest to  बूँद  off  .
After the 2001 season  ,   एमएलबी  considered  revoking   the  team 's franchise  ,  along with either the  मिनेसोटा   जुड़वा  or  the   tampa  Bay Devil Rays  .
बाद   होने   खरीदा  by MLB  in  2002  ,   the  team  थी  moved  पहले  the season to  वॉशिंगटन  and  renamed   the  Nationals ,  the  first relocation since the  दूसरी   वॉशिंगटन   सीनेटरों   स्थानांतरित   to  Arlington  ,  Texas ,  और   became   the  Texas  रेंजरों  in  .
The  नागरिकों  are one  of  two MLB  franchises  , and  the  only one  in   the  National League  ,   कि   रै  never  निभाई  in a World Series ( the  सिएटल  Mariners are the  अन्य   )  .
A contingent fee  (   in   the  United States ) or conditional fee (  in   इंग्लैण्ड  and  वेल्स   )  is  कोई   शुल्क   लिये   सेवाएं  provided  जहाँ   the   शुल्क   is  payable only  if  there is a favourable result .
in  the law  ,   it   is   पारिभाषित   as   a   ``  fee  चार्ज  for a  वकील  's  सेवाएं   तभी   if  the  मुकदमा   is  successful or  is  favorably  settled  out  of   अदालत  ... .
Contingent  शुल्क  are usually  गणना   as  a percentage of  the   क्लाएंट  's net  रिकवरी  .  ''
in   the   अंग्रेज़ी  legal  प्रणाली  ,  it  is  generally   referred   to  as no win no  शुल्क   .
A  सशर्त  fee  अनुबंध   between  a law firm and  a   क्लाएंट  .
the  usual form of  इस   अनुबंध   is   कि  the  solicitor  will take  a   विधि  case on  the   समझना  that if lost  ,   no   भुगतान   is  made .
However ,  if   the  case is won , the lawyer  होगा   be   हकदार   to  the normal fee  आधारित   on  hourly billing  ,  plus  a  success fee  .
The success fee in  इंग्लैण्ड  must  be   as  a percentage  no  greater  than   100  %  of   the   सामान्य  fee .
इस   contrasts  with the contingency fee in the US ,  जिससे   देता  the  कामयाब   attorney  a percentage of  the  damages awarded in  एहसान   of  his client  .
इस  makes it easier  लिये   the   ग़रीब  to  pursue   उनके  civil rights since otherwise ,  to   मुकदमा   किसी  for a tort ,  एक   जरूर  first be wealthy enough  to  pursue such litigation  in   the   पहला  place .
However ,  क्युकी  of the high  रिस्क   ,  few  attorneys  will take cases on a contingency basis  जबतक  they feel the  मामला   रै   शुभ  merit  .
According  to   a  2004 book  by   विधि   प्राध्यापक  Herbert Kritzer , contingent fees were allowed as of that  साल  in the  following  countries  :   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  ,  ब्राज़ील   ,  Canada , the Dominican Republic ,  फ़्रांस  ,  यूनानियों   ,  Ireland  ,  Japan  ,  New Zealand  ,  the United  किंगडम  and the United  राज्य  .
They  हैं   भी   अनुमत   in   निजी  injury actions in  लिथुआनिया   .
Recently , they  have  been allowed in Belgium as  खूब  .
a   convocation  ( Latin  'calling   साथ  ' , translating  the   यूनानी  ecclesia )  is  a  समूह   of   लोगों   formally   समवेत  for a special purpose .
Sons  of   अराजकता  is a  टेलीविज़न  drama series  निर्मित  by Kurt Sutter about the lives  of   a  close-knit outlaw motorcycle  क्लबों  operating in  आकर्षक  , a  fictional  town in California 's  सेंट्रल  Valley .
The  दिखाएँ  centers on protagonist Jackson  ``   जैक्स  '' Teller (  चार्ली   hunnam   )  , the  then-vice  president  of  the club  ,  who begins questioning the club  और  himself  .
बेटे   of   अराजकता  premiered  on  September  3  , 2008 , on  केबल   संजाल  FX  .
the   तीसरा   ऋतु   of   the  series attracted  an  average  of   4.9  million viewers  प्रति  week  ,  making  it   fx  's highest  रेटेड  series ever  ,   surpassing  FX 's other hits The Shield  ,   nip/tuck  , and Rescue Me  .
On  फ़रवरी  3 ,  2012  , Sons of Anarchy  थी   नवीनीकृत   लिये   दो   अतिरिक्त   सीज़न   ,  a fifth and  a  sixth  .
Those involved in  the  production  of  the series imply that a seventh  और   फाइनल   ऋतु  is creator Kurt  sutter  's  योजना  .
the  Grímsvötn sub-glacial  झीलों  (  ;  vötn = ``  waters  ''  ,   एकवचन  :  )  and the volcano of the  वही   नाम  are  in   south-east  Iceland  .
They are  in   the  highlands of Iceland at the  northwestern  side of the Vatnajökull ice-cap .
The lakes are at , at an  उन्नयन  of  .
beneath  the  झीलों   is   the  magma  कक्ष  of the  grímsvötn  volcano .
Grímsvötn is a  basaltic   ज्वालामुखी  which has the highest eruption  आवृत्ति  of all the volcanoes in  आइसलैंड   और  has a southwest-northeast-trending  फिशर   प्रणाली  .
the   विशाल   climate-impacting  Laki  फिशर  eruption of 1783–1784 was  a  part  of  the  वही   फिशर   प्रणाली  .
Grímsvötn was erupting at the same time  as   laki  during 1783  ,   लकिन   जारी   to  erupt until  1785   .
क्युकी   सबसे   of  the volcano lies underneath  vatnajökull  ,  सबसे  of its eruptions have been  subglacial  and the interaction of magma  और   meltwater  from the ice  कल्याणकारी  phreatomagmatic  विस्फोटक   कार्यकलाप  .
On 21 May  2011  at  19:25  UTC  ,  an eruption began , with high plumes accompanied by  अनेक  earthquakes  ,  resulting in cancellation  of   900   फ़्लाइट  in  आइसलैंड   ,  and in the  संयुक्त   किंगडम   ,  Greenland  ,   जर्मनी   ,   आयरलैंड  and Norway  on   22–25   may   .
Until 25 May the  फटना   स्केल  had been  larger  than that of the  2010   फटना  of  eyjafjallajökull   .
the  eruption stopped  at  02:40  utc  on 25 May 2011 , although  वहीँ   थी   कुछ   विस्फोटक  activity  इससे   the  tephra  vents  affecting  तभी  the  क्षेत्रफल   around  the crater .
vetting  is the process of performing  a  background check  on   किसी  before offering them employment  ,   डाक्टरेट   an  award , etc .
A prospective person or  प्रोजेक्ट   may  be vetted before making a hiring decision .
In addition , in intelligence gathering  ,   एसेट  are vetted to  determine   उनके  usefulness  .
Former  मुख्यालय   और  current corporate  कार्यालयों
caesars  Entertainment Corporation (  formerly   harrah   's  Entertainment from 1995 to  2010   )   is  an American public  गेमिंग  corporation that  owns  and  operates   over  50 casinos ,  होटल  ,  और   सात   गोल्फ़   पाठ्यक्रम   अंतर्गत  several brands .
the  company , based in  स्वर्ग   ,  Nevada  ,  is the largest gaming company in the world , with  सालाना   revenues   of  $ 8.9 billion  (   2010   )  .
Caesars  is   a  public  कम्पनी   ,  with a  संयुक्त  venture of Apollo Global  प्रबन्धन  and  टेक्सास  Pacific  समूह  ownig a large portion  of  the stack  और  Blackstone Group  भी  holding a  significant   हिस्सेदारी  .
The name change from ``  harrah  's  entertainment   inc.  '' to  ``  Caesars Entertainment Corporation  ''  was made  आधिकारिक  on November 23  ,   2010   .
Harrah  's   remains  a  कुंजी   ब्रांड  in the company .
On  नवम्बर  5 ,  2010   ,  Harrah 's  घोषित  an initial public  offering  of  31,250,000   साझा   लकिन   retracted  this offering on November 19 .
a  Permanent Resident  in   कनाडा   is   a  person  जो   is  not  a   कनाडाई  citizen but who has been granted permission  to   सजीव   और   कार्य   in  Canada without any  समय   सीमा  on his  or  her  रहो   .
A  स्थाई   निवासी  must live in  कनाडा   लिये  two years out of every five  or   रिस्क   खोने   कि  status  .
a   स्थाई  Resident  holds   अनेक   of  the  वही   अधिकारों   और   जिम्मेदारियों  as  a  Canadian  नागरिक  ,  among   अन्य  the right to  कार्य   लिये   कोई   एंटरप्राइज़  as well as  लिये   the   संघीय   or   प्रांतीय   सरकारी  (  अंतर्गत   प्रतिबंध   of  access  अधिकारों   to  certain  regulated  professions ) .
The  प्रमुख  differences  हैं   कि  residents  can  not  :
vote  in elections in Canada ;
run for elected  दफ्तर  ;
hold Canadian  passports  ;
In addition  ,  they may  be   अनुमत  to join  कनाडा  's armed  शक्तियां  if the  नेशनल   ब्याज   होता  not be prejudiced .
स्थाई  residents also risk  प्रत्यर्पण  for serious crimes committed while resident in Canada .
स्थाई  residents may  लागू  for  कनाडाई  citizenship after three years  in  Canada  ;   however  this is not mandatory .
Erica Kane is  a  fictional  अक्षर   इससे  the  अमरीकी   एबीसी   दिन  soap  ओपेरा  All My  children   .
the   अक्षर   थी   portrayed   by  actress Susan Lucci from her debut on January  16  , 1970 until the last broadcast television  एपीसोड   aired   on   सितंबर  23 ,  2011  .
On  फ़रवरी  11 , 2013 ,  it  was  घोषित  that Lucci will  guest-star  on the Prospect Park 's continuation  of  All My  children  .
in   the  U.S. , Erica is considered to  be  the  सबसे  popular character  in  soap  ओपेरा   इतिहास   .
regarding   the  North-American market , TV Guide calls  उसके   ``   unequivocally  the most  प्रसिद्ध   साबुन  opera  अक्षर  in the history of  दिन  TV ''  ,   और   शामिल  her in their 2013  सूची  of  the   60   nastiest   खलनायक   of  All  समय  .
A graph  of   the  US  cpi  from 1913  to  2006 (  in   ब्लू   )   ,  and  इसके  percent annual change (  in  red )
A consumer price  अनुक्रमणिका   (   cpi  )  उपायों  changes  in  the  दाम  level of a market basket of  उपभोक्ता  goods  और   सेवाएं   खरीदा  by  households  .
the  CPI in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  is defined  by  the Bureau  of  Labor  आंकडे   as   ``  a measure of the  औसत   बदलें  over time in the prices paid  by  urban consumers  लिये   a   मार्केट   बास्केट  of  उपभोक्ता   goods   और  services . ''
The  cpi  is a  सांख्यिकीय  estimate constructed  using  the prices of a  नमूना   of  representative items whose prices are  एकत्रित  periodically  .
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are  computed  for different  श्रेणी  and sub-categories of goods and services , being  संयुक्त  to produce the  overall  index  साथ  weights  reflecting  their shares  in  the total of the consumer  expenditures  covered  by   the   अनुक्रमणिका  .
It is one of  अनेक  price  indices  calculated by most national  सांख्यिकीय  agencies  .
The  सालाना   प्रतिशत  change  in  a CPI  is  used  as   a   माप  of inflation .
A  cpi  can be  प्रयुक्त  to  अनुक्रमणिका  ( i.e. , adjust for the effect  of  inflation  )   the  real value of wages ,  salaries  ,  pensions   ,  for  regulating  prices and  लिये   deflating   मौद्रिक   magnitudes  to show changes  in   रियल   मान  .
In  सबसे  countries , the CPI is , along with the population census  और  the  यूएसए   नेशनल  Income and  उत्पाद  Accounts , one  of   the  most closely watched  नेशनल  economic  आंकडे  .
knocking  on  लकडी   ,   or  to touch  लकडी  , refers to  the   apotropaic  tradition in western  लोकगीत   of  literally touching/knocking on wood ,  or  merely  stating  that  तुम   हैं  doing or intend  वही   ,  in  अनुक्रम   to  avoid `` tempting fate ``  बाद   बनाना  a favourable observation  ,  a boast  ,  or  घोषणा   concerning  one 's  अपना  death  .
रॉकर   भुजा
Generally referred  to   भीतर   the   कॉन्टेक्स्ट  of the internal combustion engine of automotive  ,   समुद्री   ,   मोटरसाइकिल   और   प्रत्यागमनी  aviation engines  ,  the rocker  भुजा  is an  oscillating  lever  कि  conveys  रेडियल   गति  from the  कैम  lobe into  रैखिक   गति   at   the  poppet valve  to  open  it   .
One end is raised  और  lowered  by   a  rotating  पालि   of  the  camshaft  (  either  directly or  via  a tappet ( lifter )  और  pushrod ) while  the  other end acts on the valve stem  .
When the  camshaft  lobe raises the outside  of  the arm ,  the  inside presses down on  the   वाल्व   स्टेम   ,   खोलने  the valve  .
जब   the   बाहर  of the arm is permitted to  वापसी  due to  the  camshafts rotation , the  अंदर  rises ,  allowing   the  valve spring to  बंद  the valve .
The  ड्राइव  cam is  चलित   by  the  camshaft  .
This pushes  the   रॉकर   भुजा  up  और  down  परिचय  the  trunnion  pin  or  rocker  शाफ्ट  .
Friction may  be   घटाया  at  the   पाइंट  of contact with the  वाल्व   स्टेम   by   a  roller cam follower  .
A similar arrangement transfers the  गति  via another roller  कैम   अनुसरणकर्ता   to  a  दूसरी   रॉकर   भुजा  .
This rotates  परिचय  the rocker shaft  ,   और  transfers the  गति  via a tappet  to   the   poppet  valve  .
in  this  मामला  this opens the intake  वाल्व   to  the cylinder  सिर  .
the  effective leverage of the arm (  और  thus  the  force  it   can  exert on the  वाल्व  stem  )  is determined  by   the   रॉकर   भुजा  ratio  ,  the  अनुपात  of  the  distance  इससे  the rocker arm 's center of rotation to the tip divided  by   the   अलहदा  from the center of rotation  to   the  point acted  on  by the camshaft or pushrod  .
वर्तमान  automotive design favors rocker  भुजा  ratios  of  about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1  .
however  , in  the  past smaller  धनात्मक   ratios   (  the valve  लिफ्ट  is  वृहद   than  the cam lift  )  and  भी  negative  ratios  ( valve lift  छोटी  than the cam lift ) have  महरूम  used  .
Many  pre-ww2  engines use  1:1  ( neutral ) ratios  .
For  car  engines  the  rocker arms are generally steel stampings , providing a reasonable balance of strength  ,  weight  और  economical cost  .
Because  the  rocker arms are , in  भाग  , reciprocating weight  ,  excessive mass especially  at  the lever  ends   हद   the   इंजन  's ability to  पहुँचें   ऊँची  operating speeds  .
``   the   रात्रि  the Lights Went  आउट  in Georgia '' is a  दक्षिणी   गोथिक   सोंग  written  by   songwriter  Bobby  रसेल  and performed in 1972 by his  then-wife  Vicki Lawrence .
Reba  mcentire   बाद  covered  it  in  1991  .
Recorded in late October 1972 in United/Western  studios   on  Sunset  in  Hollywood and released  कम  than two weeks  बाद  in November  1972  ,  the  song centers around the older brother  of   the   narrator  , falsely convicted of  और  executed for a murder  ,  which  the  narrator  herself  has  वचनबद्ध  .
In  डाक  mail ,  a  return address is an explicit  समावेश   of   the  address of the  व्यक्ति  sending  the  message  .
It provides the  प्राप्तकर्ता  (  और  sometimes  प्राधिकृत   intermediaries   )  with a means to determine how  to  respond to the sender  of  the  संदेश  if  needed   .
the  return  पता  need not  शामिल  a  प्रेषक  's  नाम  , but  चाहिए  include  पता  or  p.o   .  box details  in   the  same  रास्ता  as  the  delivery address should  .
In  कुछ  countries , the return address is  conventionally  located  in   the  upper left hand corner of the envelope ,  कार्ड  ,  or  label  .
In  the  United Kingdom ,  the  return  पता   is  usually placed on  the  reverse  of   the   लिफाफा  , near the top .
Businesses often  उपयोग   लिफाफे   preprinted  with a return address  .
अनेक  individuals have  चादरें  of adhesive  लेबल्स  preprinted  साथ  their home address to  affix   to  their correspondence  .
धर्मार्थ   sometimes   शामिल  such  चादरें   in  mailshots  .
रोल्स  of Return Address Labels can  be   खरीदा  from  कंपनियाँ  that  बेचें  personalized labels  to   provide  individuals an easy way to peel and stick return address  लेबल्स  to  उनके   लिफाफे   .
The  वापसी  address is not required  on   डाक   मेल  .
however   ,  lack of a return address prevents the  डाक  service from being able  to  return the  मद   if  it proves undeliverable ; such  as   इससे   क्षति  ,  postage  due  ,   or  invalid  गंतव्य  .
Such mail may  यूँ  become dead letter  मेल  .
Should  the   वापसी  address be  of  a different state  or   देश  ,  the  mail may  be  routed through that location  लिये   आसानी   of  return .
A nerve  मार्गदर्शन  conduit  (  also referred to  as  an artificial nerve conduit or artificial  तंत्रिका   graft   ,  as opposed to an  autograft  )  is  an artificial means  of  guiding axonal regrowth  to   सुकर  nerve  regeneration  and is one  of   अनेक  clinical treatments  लिये   तंत्रिका  injuries  .
जब  direct  suturing   of  the two stumps  of   a   severed  nerve  can   नहीं  be accomplished  बगैर  tension  ,   the  standard clinical treatment for  परिधीय  nerve injuries is autologous nerve grafting  .
Due to  the   सीमित  availability of donor tissue  और   कार्यात्मक  recovery  in  autologous  तंत्रिका   कलम   ,  neural tissue engineering research has focused  on   the  development  of  bioartificial nerve  मार्गदर्शन  conduits  as  an alternative  उपचार  ,  विशेषकर   लिये  large defects  .
Similar  तकनीकों   हैं  also being explored  लिये  nerve repair in the spinal cord  लकिन   तंत्रिका   regeneration  in the central  बेचैन  system  मुद्राएँ   a  greater  चुनौती   क्युकी  its  axons   do  not regenerate appreciably in their  देशी   पर्यावरण  .
The  सृष्टि  of  कृत्रिम  conduits is also  ज्ञात  as entubulation because  the   तंत्रिका   ends  and  intervening   गैप  are enclosed within  a  tube  रचित  of biological or  सिंथेटिक   सामग्री   .
Whether  the  conduit is  in   the  form  of  a  biologic  tube ,  सिंथेटिक  tube or tissue-engineered  conduit  , it  चाहिए  facilitate neurotropic  और  neurotrophic communication  between   the  proximal and distal  ends  of  the  nerve  गैप  , block external inhibitory factors  ,  and provide a  शारीरिक  guidance for axonal regrowth .
The most basic objective  of  a nerve guidance  conduit  is to combine  शारीरिक  ,  रासायनिक  , and biological  cues   अंतर्गत  conditions that will  फोस्टर  tissue  गठन  .
सामग्री  that  have   महरूम   प्रयुक्त   to  make biologic  tubes   शामिल  blood  बरतन  and skeletal muscles ,  जबकि   nonabsorbable  and bioabsorbable synthetic tubes  have  been made from silicone and polyglycolide  क्रमशः  .
Tissue-engineered nerve guidance conduits are a  संयोजन  of  अनेक   तत्व  :  scaffold  structure  ,  scaffold  सामग्री  ,  सेल्यूलर  therapies  ,   neurotrophic   कारकों  and biomimetic  सामग्री  .
The  चुनाव  of  जिससे   शारीरिक  ,  रासायनिक  and  biological   cues  to  उपयोग  is  आधारित   on  the properties of  the  nerve environment  ,  which  is  critical in  बनाना  the most desirable environment for  axon  regeneration  .
the  factors that control material  चयन  include  biocompatibility   ,  biodegradability  ,  mechanical integrity , controllability during  तंत्रिका  growth , implantation  और  sterilization .
Hardcore Pawn is  an   अमरीकी  reality  टेलीविज़न  series  उत्पादित  by RDF  यूएसए  ( later  zodiak   यूएसए   )  and  रिचर्ड  Dominick  प्रोडक्शन्स   लिये  truTV about the day-to-day operations  of  American Jewelry  और  Loan ,  a  family-owned  साहूकार   दूकान   स्तिथ  at 20450 Greenfield Road , between 8 Mile Road and the John C.  आवास  Freeway  in   डेट्रॉयट  , Michigan  .
The  श्रेणी  premiered on August 16 , 2010  ,  delivering  दो  million viewers  ,  setting a record  as  truTV 's most-watched  श्रेणी   प्रीमियर  ever  .
amoxicillin  BP
Amoxicillin ( INN )  ,   formerly   amoxycillin  ( BAN  )  , and  abbreviated   amox   ,  is a moderate-spectrum ,  bacteriolytic   ,   β-lactam  antibiotic used to  दावत  bacterial  infections   caused   by   susceptible  microorganisms  .
it  is usually  the  drug  of  choice within the class  क्युकी   it   is  better absorbed , following  मौखिक   प्रशासन   ,   than   अन्य   β-lactam  antibiotics .
Amoxicillin  is   एक   of  the most common antibiotics prescribed  लिये  children .
the   ड्रग  became  उपलब्धियाँ   in  1972  .
Amoxicillin  is  susceptible  to  degradation  by  β-lactamase -producing bacteria , which are  resistant  to  a  broad spectrum  of   β-lactam   एंटीबायोटिक  ,  ऐसे  as penicillin .
For this  कारण   ,   it   is  often combined with  clavulanic   एसिड  , a  β-lactamase  inhibitor .
This increases  प्रभावकारिता   by  reducing  इसके  susceptibility to β-lactamase  प्रतिरोध  .
lyndon  Baines Johnson ( August  27   ,  1908 – January  22  ,  1973   )   ,  often  referred   to  as  lbj  , was the 36th President of the United  राज्य  ( 1963–1969  )   ,  a  स्थिति  he  assumed   बाद  his service  as   the   37th  Vice  अध्यक्ष  of the United States (  1961–1963  )  .
He  is  one  of  only four  लोगों   जो  served  in  all four elected federal  कार्यालयों  of the  संयुक्त  States  :  Representative ,  सीनेटर  , Vice President , and President  .
Johnson  ,   a  Democrat from Texas , served as a  संयुक्त   राज्य  Representative from 1937–1949  और  as a Senator from 1949–1961  ,  including  छह   सालो  as United  राज्य   सीनेट   बहुमत   नेता   ,  two  as  Senate  अल्पसंख्यक  Leader and  दो   as  Senate  बहुमत  Whip .
बाद   campaigning  unsuccessfully for  the  Democratic nomination in 1960  ,   जॉनसन   थी  asked by John  F.   कैनेडी   to   be  his running mate  लिये   the  1960 presidential election .
जॉनसन  succeeded to the presidency following the  हत्या  of John  F.   कैनेडी  on  नवम्बर   22  , 1963  ,  completed Kennedy 's term  और  was elected President in his own  सही  , winning  by   a  large margin over  बैरी   goldwater   in  the 1964 election .
Johnson was  greatly  supported by the Democratic  पार्टी  and as  अध्यक्ष   ,  he was responsible for  डिजाइनिंग  the ``  ग्रेट  Society ``  विधान  that  शामिल  laws that upheld civil  अधिकारों   ,   पब्लिक   प्रसारण   ,   medicare   ,  Medicaid ,  पर्यावरणीय  protection , aid  to  education , and  उसके  ``  युद्ध  on  गरीबी  . ''
Johnson  थी   प्रसिद्ध   लिये   उसके   domineering   व्यक्तित्व  and  the  ``  जॉनसन   उपचार   ,  '' his  coercion  of powerful politicians in  अनुक्रम   to   अग्रिम  legislation  .
Meanwhile , Johnson escalated American  भागीदारी   in  the  वियतनाम  War  ,   इससे  16,000 American advisors/soldiers  in   1963  to 550,000  कॉम्बैट   सैनिकों   in   जल्दी  1968 ,  as  American  हताहत   soared  and  the  peace process bogged down  .
The involvement  stimulated  a large  एंग्री   antiwar   गति  based especially on  विश्वविद्यालयों  campuses  in   the   u.S.   और  abroad  .
Summer riots  broke  out in  सबसे  major  शहरों  after 1965 ,  और   अपराधों  rates  soared   ,  as  उसके  opponents raised demands for ``  विधि  and  अनुक्रम   ''  policies .
The  लोकतांत्रिक   पार्टी   विभाजित  in multiple  feuding   गिरोहों  , and  बाद  Johnson did  poorly  in the 1968  नई   हैम्पशायर  primary  ,  he  ended   उसके   बोली   लिये   reelection  .
Republican Richard Nixon was elected to  सफल  him  .
इतिहासकारों  argue  कि  Johnson 's  प्रेसिडेंसी   चिह्नित  the peak  of  modern liberalism  in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  after  the  New  सौदे  era .
जॉनसन  is ranked  favorably  by some  इतिहासकारों  because of his domestic policies .
The Big  बंग   सिद्धान्त   डाल   at  Comic  कॉन   2009   ,   इससे  left : Kunal  नय्यर  , Simon  helberg  , Kaley Cuoco  ,  Jim Parsons  ,   और   जॉनी   galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang Theory  ,  created  और   कार्यपालिका  produced by Chuck Lorre  और   विधेयक   prady   ,  premiered  on  CBS on September  24   ,  2007  .
The  दिखाएँ   centers  on  पाँच   वर्ण  :  roommates   शेल्डन   कूपर  and Leonard  hofstadter   ,   दो   caltech  physicists  ;   पैनी  , a  वेट्रेस   और  aspiring actress  जो  lives across the hall ;  और   लियोनार्ड  and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz ,  और   astrophysicist   राजेश   koothrappali  .
Over time , several  supporting   वर्ण  have been promoted to  अभिनीत  roles : Leslie Winkle  (   ऋतु  1  पुनरावर्ती   ;   ऋतु  2  नियमित   ;   ऋतु  3  अतिथि  )  ,   a   physicist   सहयोगी   ,  and , at  अलग  times , a  प्रेमी  of both Leonard and Howard  ;   bernadette  Rostenkowski-Wolowitz  (  season 3 recurring ; season  4-present  regular  )  , a  microbiologist  , Howard  's   fiancée  and subsequent  बीवी  ,  और   पूर्व  part-time waitress  alongside   पैनी  ;  neuroscientist  Amy Farrah Fowler (  ऋतु  3  अतिथि  ; season 4  पुनरावर्ती   ;  season 4-present regular ) , who  joins  the  समूह   बाद   होने  matched to Sheldon  on   a   डेटिंग   जालस्थल   ;   और   कॉमिक  book store-owner  ,  Stuart Bloom ( seasons  2–5  recurring  ;   ऋतु  6-present  नियमित  )  ,  who replaces  हावर्ड  as Raj  's   बेहतरीन  friend when  हावर्ड  is in space .
The  दिखाएँ   भी   सुविधाएँ  numerous  supporting  characters ,  प्रत्येक   of   जिसको  plays  a  prominent role  in  a  छोटी   समूह  of episodes  .
The American  सिविल  War ( ACW ) , also  ज्ञात  as the  युद्ध  between  the  States or simply  the  Civil War ( see  नामकरण   )  , was a  सिविल  war fought  इससे  1861  to   1865   between  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  (  the  `` Union '' or  the   ``   उत्तर  ''  )   और   अनेक  Southern slave states that declared their secession and  formed  the  confederate  States of America ( the ``  confederacy  ''  or  the ``  दक्षिण  ''  )   .
The  युद्ध   था   इसके   उत्पत्ति  in the issue  of  slavery  ,  especially  the  extension of slavery into the western territories  .
विदेशी  powers  किया   नहीं   intervene  .
बाद  four  सालो  of bloody  कॉम्बैट  that  बाएँ   over  600,000  सैनिको   मुर्दे   और   नष्ट   much   of  the  दक्षिण  's  अवसंरचना   ,  the Confederacy  collapsed  , slavery was abolished  ,  and the  मुश्किल   पुनर्निर्माण  process  of  restoring  नेशनल  unity and  guaranteeing  rights to the  freed  slaves began  .
in  the 1860 presidential election , Republicans  ,   led  by  अब्राहम  Lincoln ,  opposed  expanding slavery into United  राज्य   '  territories  .
Lincoln  जीती   ,   लकिन   पहले  his inauguration  on  March  4   ,   1861  ,  सात  cotton-based slave  राज्य  formed the  confederacy  .
Outgoing  लोकतांत्रिक  President James Buchanan  और  the incoming Republicans rejected secession as  illegal  .
Lincoln  's   inaugural  address declared his administration would not  initiate   सिविल   युद्ध   .
Eight remaining slave  राज्य   जारी   to   अस्वीकृत  calls for secession  .
Confederate  शक्तियां  seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy  .
a  Peace Conference failed to find  a  compromise ,  और  both  पहलू  prepared for war  .
the   confederates   assumed   कि  European countries were  so  dependent on ``  किंग  Cotton ``  कि  they  होता   intervene   ;   none   किया  and  none  recognized the  नई   confederate  States  of  America  .
Hostilities began on April 12  ,  1861 , when  confederate   शक्तियां   fired   upon  Fort  sumter  , a key fort held  by   संघ   सैनिकों  in  दक्षिण  Carolina  .
Lincoln  पुकारा  for each state  to  provide troops  to   retake  the fort ;  नतीजतन   ,  four more slave states joined  the   confederacy   ,   bringing  their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled  the  border states  और  established a  नवल  blockade that crippled the southern economy  .
The  पूर्वी   थिएटर  was  inconclusive  in  1861–62  .
The  पतझड़  1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland  (   a   संघ   राज्य   )  ended  साथ  Confederate  रिट्रीट  at  the   बैटल  of  antietam  , dissuading British  हस्तक्षेप   .
Lincoln issued  the  Emancipation Proclamation  ,  which made ending slavery a  युद्ध  goal  .
To the  वेस्ट  ,  by  summer 1862  the   संघ   नष्ट  the Confederate  नदी  navy , then much of their  पश्चिमी  armies , and  the  Union at  vicksburg   विभाजित   the   confederacy   in  two at the  मिसिसिपी   नदी   .
in  1863  ,  Robert  E.  Lee  's  Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of  gettysburg  .
पश्चिमी  successes led  to   ulysses   S.  Grant  कमांड   of   सब  Union  सेना   in   1864  .
In  the   पश्चिमी  Theater , William  T.  Sherman  drove  east to capture Atlanta  और  marched  to  the sea , destroying  confederate  infrastructure  साथ  the way  .
the  Union  marshaled  the resources and  जनशक्ति  to attack the Confederacy from all directions  ,  and could  afford  to fight battles of  अपघर्षण  through the  overland  Campaign towards Richmond  ,   the   confederate   पूंजी  .
the  defending Confederate army failed  ,  leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant  at   appomattox  Court House on April 9 ,  1865  .
The American Civil  युद्ध  was  एक  of the earliest  सच्चा  industrial  युद्धों  .
Railroads  ,   the   टेलीग्राफ  , steamships , and mass-produced weapons were  employed  extensively .
the  mobilization of civilian factories , mines , shipyards ,  बैंको  ,  परिवहन  and food  आपूर्तियाँ  all foreshadowed World  युद्ध  I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history  ,  resulting in the deaths of  an   अनुमानित  750,000 soldiers and  an  undetermined number  of   civilian  casualties  .
इतिहासकार   जॉन   huddleston   estimates   the   मौत  toll  at   टेन  percent  of  all  उत्तरी  males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent  of   सब  Southern white males aged 18–40  .
Human evolution refers to  the  evolutionary  प्रक्रम  leading up  to   the  appearance of modern humans  .
While  it   began  with the  पिछला  common ancestor  of  all  जीवन   ,   the  topic  प्रायः  covers  तभी  the  विकासवादी   इतिहास   of   primates   ,  in  particular  the  genus  Homo ,  और  the emergence of  होमो   sapiens   as  a distinct species  of   hominids  (  or  ``  ग्रेट  apes  ''  )  .
the   पढ़ाई   of  human evolution involves  अनेक  scientific  disciplines  , including physical anthropology  ,   primatology   ,   पुरातत्व  , linguistics ,  विकासवादी   मनोविज्ञान  , embryology  और   आनुवंशिकी  .
According to genetic studies , primates  diverged  from other  स्तनधारियों  about in the Late Cretaceous period ,  और  the  earliest  fossils appear in  the  Paleocene ,  around   .
the   परिवार   मानवनुमा  diverged from  the   hylobatidae   (  Gibbon )  परिवार  15-20 million years  पहले   ,  and around , the Ponginae  (   orangutans   )   ,   diverged  from the Hominidae  परिवार  .
bipedalism  is the basic adaption of  the  Hominin  लकीर  ,  और   the  earliest  bipedal  Hominin is considered  to  be either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin , with  ardipithecus   ,  a  पूरा  bipedal  ,  coming somewhat later .
the  gorilla  और  chimpanzee diverged around the same time , about 4-6 million years  पहले  ,  और   either   sahelanthropus  or Orrorin  may  be our  पिछला  shared  पूर्वज  with them  .
The  जल्दी  bipedals eventually  विकसित   into  the australopithecines and  बाद   the   genus   होमो   .
The earliest documented members of the genus  होमो   हैं  Homo habilis which evolved  around  ;  the   earliest   प्रजाति   लिये  which  वहीँ   is   धनात्मक  evidence of use  of  stone  टूल्स   .
The  दिमाग   of   ये  early  hominins  were  परिचय  the same  आकार  as that of a  चिंपैंजी  .
दौरान  the  अगला   लाख   सालो  a process of encephalization began  ,   और  with the arrival of Homo erectus  in  the fossil record ,  cranial  capacity  था   doubled   to   850  cm3  .
होमो  erectus and  होमो  ergaster were  the  first of the hominina to leave  अफ़्रीकी  , and these  प्रजाति  spread through  अफ़्रीकी   ,  Asia  ,  and Europe between .
It is  believed   कि  these species were the  पहला  to use fire  और  complex  टूल्स  .
According to the  हाल  African Ancestry  सिद्धान्त   ,  modern  इंसानो  evolved in  अफ़्रीकी  possibly  इससे  Homo heidelbergensis  ,  Homo rhodesiensis or  होमो   antecessor  and  migrated  out  of  the continent some 50,000 to  100,000  years ago ,  replacing  local  populations  of Homo erectus , Homo denisova  ,   होमो   floresiensis   और  Homo neanderthalensis  .
Archaic Homo sapiens  ,   the   forerunner   of  anatomically modern humans ,  विकसित  between 400,000  और   250,000   सालो  ago .
Recent DNA evidence  suggests   कि  several  haplotypes   of  Neanderthal origin  हैं  present among  सब  non-African  populations   ,   और  Neanderthals and other  hominids  , such as Denisova hominin may have contributed up  to  6 % of their  genome  to present-day  इंसानs.  <  संदर्भ  name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > Anatomically modern humans evolved from archaic Homo sapiens  in  the Middle Paleolithic , about 200,000 years ago  .
the  transition  to   behavioral   आधुनिकता  with  the  development  of   सांकेतिक  culture  ,  language  ,   और   specialized  lithic technology happened around 50,000 years  पहले  according to many anthropologists  हालांकि  some  सुझाएँ  a gradual change in  बर्ताव   over  a  longer  time  स्पैन  .
Lisa Cuddy ,  m.d   .   ,   is  a  fictional   अक्षर  on  the  Fox network medical drama House .
She is  portrayed  by  लिसा   edelstein  .
Cuddy was  the   डीन   of  Medicine  और   हॉस्पिटल   व्यवस्थापक   of  the fictional Princeton-Plainsboro  शिक्षण  Hospital in  नई   जर्सी  .
She  भी  becomes House  's  love  ब्याज  through the years to start a  संबंध  with  उसे   in  season  सात   .
Cuddy quit  उसके   जॉब   बाद  the events  of  season seven 's finale ``  चलती  On ``  .
Track  और  field is  a  sport  comprising  various competitive  एथलेटिक  contests based  on  running ,  कूद  ,  और  throwing .
The  नाम  of the  खेल  derives  इससे  the competition venue :  a  stadium with an  ओवल   कार्यशील  track  around  a grass  फ़ील्ड  .
The throwing and jumping events generally  लो   प्लेस  in  the   सेंट्रल  enclosed area  .
track  and field falls under the  छतरियाँ   खेल  of athletics  ,   जिससे  also includes  सड़क   कार्यशील   ,   क्रॉस   देश   कार्यशील   ,  and race walking .
The  दो  most prestigious international track  और  field competitions  हैं   आयोजित  under the  ध्वज  of athletics : the  एथलेटिक्स   प्रतियोगिता  at the Olympic  खेल   और   the   आइएएएफ  World  championships  in Athletics  .
The International  संघ  of  एथलेटिक्स   federations  is the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  governing body for track and  फ़ील्ड  .
Track  और   फ़ील्ड   कार्यक्रम   हैं   generally   व्यक्तिगत  sports with athletes challenging each other to  decide  a single victor .
the   रेसिंग  events  हैं  won  by   the   खिलाड़ी  with the fastest time ,  जबकि   the   कूद  and  फेंकना   कार्यक्रम   हैं  won by the athlete who has  हासिल  the greatest  अलहदा   or  height in  the   प्रतियोगिता  .
The running events are categorised as sprints , middle and  long-distance   कार्यक्रम  , relays , and hurdling .
नियमित  jumping events include  long   जम्प  , triple jump  ,   ऊँची   जम्प   और   ध्रुव  vault  ,   जबकि   the  most  आम  throwing events  हैं  shot put  ,  javelin  ,   discus  and  हथौड़ा   .
वहीँ  are also  ``  combined  कार्यक्रम  ''  ,   ऐसे  as  heptathlon   और  decathlon , in  जिससे  athletes compete in  a  number  of   the  above  कार्यक्रम   .
Records  हैं  kept of  the   बेहतरीन   प्रदर्शन  in specific  कार्यक्रम   ,  at  संसार  and national levels  ,   सही   bas  to  a   निजी   स्तर   .
however  , if athletes  हैं  deemed to have  violated  the event 's  नियम  or  regulations   ,  they are  disqualified  from the  प्रतियोगिता  and their marks  हैं  erased  .
in  North America  ,  the term track and field  may  be used to  refer  to  एथलेटिक्स   in  general  ,   बल्कि  than specifically track and field events .
The Gulf  युद्ध   (   2  August  1990  –  28  February 1991  )   ,   codenamed  Operation Desert Storm  (  17  जनवरी   1991  –  28  February  1991   )   थी  a war waged by  a  U.N.-authorized Coalition  फ़ोर्स  from  34  nations led by the United  राज्य  ,  विरूद्ध   इराकी   in  response to Iraq 's invasion and annexation of Kuwait .
The war is also known under  अन्य  names ,  ऐसे  as the  पारसी  Gulf War  ,   पहला  Gulf War , Gulf  युद्ध   i  , or the First Iraq War  ,   पहले   the  term `` Iraq  युद्ध  ''  became   पहचाना  instead with  the  2003  इराकी  War (  भी  referred  to  in the  u.S.  as  ``  Operation Iraqi Freedom  ''  )  .
Kuwait  's   आक्रमण  by Iraqi  सैनिकों  that  began  2  अगस्त  1990 was  मिले   साथ  international condemnation  ,  and  brought  immediate economic  प्रतिबंधों   विरूद्ध  Iraq by  सदस्यों   of   the  U.N. Security Council .
U.S. President George H.  W.   बुश   तैनात  U.S. forces  into  Saudi  अरब  , and urged other countries to send their  अपना   शक्तियां  to  the  scene .
An array  of   राष्ट्र  joined the Coalition  .
The  ग्रेट  majority of  the  Coalition  's  military forces were  इससे  the  u.S.  , with Saudi  अरब  , the United Kingdom and  मिश्र  as leading  योगदानकर्ता  , in  कि  order .
सऊदी  Arabia paid around US $ 36  अरब  of  the   us   $  60 billion  लागत  .
the   युद्ध   थी  marked by  the  beginning of live news  on  the front  लाइनों   of  the fight  ,  with the  primacy  of  the  U.S. network CNN .
The war has  भी   अर्जित  the  उपनाम  Video  खेल  War  बाद   the   रोज़   ब्रॉडकास्ट  images  on  board the  u.S.  bombers  दौरान  Operation Desert Storm .
The initial conflict to expel Iraqi troops from Kuwait began with  an   aerial  bombardment on 17 January  1991  .
इस   थी  followed  by  a ground assault on  24   फ़रवरी  .
This was  a   निर्णायक  victory  लिये   the  Coalition  शक्तियां   ,  who liberated Kuwait  और   उन्नत  into  इराकी   territory  .
The  गठबन्धन   ceased  their  अग्रिम   ,  and declared a cease-fire  100   घंटों  after  the  ground  अभियान  started .
aerial  and ground combat  थी  confined  to   इराकी  ,  कुवैत   ,  and areas on  सऊदी  Arabia 's border .
Iraq launched  scud  missiles against Coalition  सैन्य  targets in  सऊदी   अरब  and against Israel  .
The nickel , in  अमरीकी  usage  ,  is  a   five-   cent  coin  जारी   by   the  United  राज्य  Mint .
रचित   of   75   %   तांबे   और  25 %  निकल   ,  the piece has  महरूम  struck since 1866 .
The  चांदी  half dime , equal to five cents  ,  had  महरूम  issued since the 1790s .
the  American  सिविल   युद्ध  caused economic hardship , driving gold and  चांदी  from circulation ;  in  response  ,   in   प्लेस   of   low-value  coins ,  the   सरकारी  at first issued paper  करेंसी   .
In 1865 ,  कॉंग्रेस   abolished  the five-cent fractional currency  नोट   बाद   स्पेंसर   M.  Clark , head of  the  Currency  ब्यूरो  ( today  the   ब्यूरो  of  नक्काशी  and  मुद्रण  ) , placed his  अपना  portrait  on   the  denomination .
बाद  successful introduction  of   two-cent  and  three-cent   टुकड़े   ,   बगैर  precious metal ,  कॉंग्रेस  also  प्राधिकृत   a   five-cent   टुकड़ा  consisting  of  base metal ; the  मिंट   began  striking this  संस्करण  in 1866 .
The  आरंभिक   डिज़ाइन  of  the  Shield  निकल  was struck until  1883   ,  then  replaced  by  the   स्वतंत्रता  Head  निकल  .
the  Buffalo nickel was  introduced  in  1913  as part of  a  drive to  बढ़ाएँ  the beauty of American coinage  ;  in 1938 , the Jefferson nickel  followed  .
in  2004  और   2005  , special  डिजाइन   in  honor of  the  bicentennial  of   the  Lewis and  क्लार्क  Expedition  यहूद   जारी  .
In  2006  , the Mint  reverted  to using Jefferson nickel designer Felix  schlag   's  original reverse  (  or  ``   tails  '' side ) , although  a  new  obverse   ,   by  Jamie Franki  ,  was  substituted   .
As  of  2013 , it costs  अधिक  than eleven  सेंट  to  उपज   a  nickel  ;  the  मिंट  is exploring the possibility  of   reducing  cost by  using  less  महंगी  metals  .
A poster  साथ  flowers or clusters of  पुष्प  produced by twelve  प्रजाति   of  flowering plants from  अलग  families
a  flower , sometimes known as  a  bloom or  खिलना  ,  is  the  reproductive  structure found in  flowering  plants ( plants of  the   प्रभाग   magnoliophyta  ,  भी   पुकारा  angiosperms )  .
the  biological function of a flower  is  to effect reproduction  ,  usually  by  providing  a  mechanism for  the  union  of  sperm  साथ  eggs .
Flowers  may  facilitate  outcrossing  (  संलयन  of sperm and eggs  इससे  different individuals in  a   जनसांख्यिकी  ) or  allow  selfing ( fusion  of  sperm and  अंडा  from  the   वही  flower )  .
कुछ   पुष्प   उपज  diaspores  बगैर  fertilization (  parthenocarpy   )   .
पुष्प  contain sporangia  और  are  the  site where  gametophytes   develop  .
Flowers  दे  rise to fruit and seeds .
अनेक  flowers have evolved  to  be attractive to animals  ,  so as  to  cause them  to   be  vectors for  the  transfer  of   पराग   .
In addition to  facilitating  the reproduction of  flowering   पौधे  ,  पुष्प  have long been admired  और   प्रयुक्त   by   इंसानो  to beautify their environment  ,   और   भी   as  objects of romance , ritual , religion ,  आयुर्विज्ञान  and as a source of food .
The McDonnell Douglas ( now Boeing ) F-15 Eagle is a twin-engine  ,   all-weather  tactical fighter designed  by   mcdonnell  Douglas  to  gain and maintain air superiority in aerial combat  .
it   is  considered  among   the  most successful  आधुनिक   सेनानी  , with over 100  aerial   कॉम्बैट   victories   साथ  no  नुकसान   in  dogfights .
Following  समीक्षाएँ   of  proposals  ,   the  United  राज्य   एयर   फ़ोर्स  selected McDonnell  डगलस  '  डिज़ाइन  in 1967 to meet the service 's need  लिये  a  समर्पित  air superiority fighter  .
The Eagle  पहला   उड़ाया   in   जुलाई  1972 , and entered service in 1976 .
Since the 1970s , the Eagle  रै   महरूम   exported  to Israel  ,   जापानी   ,   सऊदी  Arabia ,  और  other  राष्ट्र  .
the  F-15  थी  originally  envisioned   as   a   pure  air superiority  वायुयान  .
Its design  शामिल  a  द्वितीयक   ground-attack   काबिलियत   कि  was largely  अप्रयुक्त   .
the  design proved flexible  पर्याप्त  that an all-weather strike derivative , the F-15E Strike Eagle , was later developed  ,   और  entered service in 1989 .
the  F-15 Eagle  is  expected  to   be   in  service with the U.S.  एयर  Force past 2025 .
mimio   is   a  brand  नाम  of a line of technology products aimed at  the   शिक्षा  market .
the   प्राथमिक  products  हैं  focused  around  computer  whiteboard  interactive teaching devices .
MimioCapture  डिवाइस  also  allow  users to capture  सब  of the  स्याही   स्ट्रोक्स  that are written on the whiteboard .
जब  used in conjunction with  a   वीडियो  projector it turns the  ordinary   whiteboard  surface  into   a   fully  interactive  whiteboard  .
The  उत्पाद  line  थी  originally designed by  आभासी  Ink .
on   अक्तूबर  4  ,  2006  newell   rubbermaid   acquired   the   mimio  interactive  whiteboard  ( iWB )  उत्पाद  line .
Rahab  of   जेरिको
Rahab , ( ; ; )  थी  , according to the Book  of   जोशुआ   ,  a  स्त्री   जो   जिया  in Jericho  in  the  promised  Land and assisted the Israelites in capturing the  नगर   .
Nearly all English translations of  जोशुआ  describe  उसके  as a  बदचलन  or  वेश्या  .
The Organization of American States ( Spanish : Organización  de   लॉस  Estados Americanos  ,   पुर्तगाली  : Organização dos Estados  americanos  ,  फ्रेंच   :  Organisation  देस  États  américains  )  ,  or  the   oas  , is  a   क्षेत्रीय   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   संगठन   .
the   oas  was founded on 30 April 1948  ,  and  रै  its headquarters  in   वॉशिंगटन  , D.C.  ,  United States  .
इसके   सदस्यों  are the  35   स्वतंत्र   राज्य   of   the   americas   .
Since 26  may   2005   ,  the Secretary  सामान्य  of OAS has been José Miguel Insulza .
Christopher Columbus ( Italian  :   cristoforo   कोलोन   ;   स्पेनी  : Cristóbal  colón   ;  Portuguese  :   cristóvão  Colombo  ;  before  31  October 145120 May  1506   )  was  an  Italian  एक्सप्लोरर  ,  नाविक   ,   और  colonizer , born in the Republic of Genoa , in what is today  northwestern   इटली  .
अंतर्गत  the  auspices   of  the Catholic Monarchs of Spain  ,   he  completed four voyages across the Atlantic  समंदर   कि   led  to  सामान्य   यूरोपीय   जागरूकता  of the American continents .
Those voyages , and his efforts to establish permanent settlements on  the  island of Hispaniola ,  initiated   the  Spanish colonization of the New  संसार  .
In the  कॉन्टेक्स्ट  of  उभरते  western imperialism and economic competition between European kingdoms  seeking   माल  through the  स्थापना  of trade routes and  colonies  , Columbus 's speculative proposal  ,   to   पहुँचें   the  East Indies by sailing westward  ,  eventually received  the  support  of  the Spanish  क्राउन  , which saw  in   it   a  promise , however  रिमोट   ,   of   gaining  the upper  हाथ  over rival powers in the contest for  the  lucrative spice trade with Asia  .
During his first voyage in 1492  ,   बजाय  of reaching Japan as he  था   intended  ,  कोलंबस  landed in  the  Bahamas  द्वीपसमूह  , at a  locale  he named  सैन  Salvador .
over  the  कोर्स   of  three  अधिक  voyages ,  कोलंबस   visited   the  Greater and  lesser  Antilles  ,  as well as the Caribbean  coast  of Venezuela  और   सेंट्रल  America ,  claiming   उन्हें   लिये   the   स्पेनी   साम्राज्य   .
Though Columbus was  नहीं   the   पहला   यूरोपीय  explorer  to  reach  the  Americas (  having  been  preceded  by  the  Norse expedition led by Leif Ericson  in  the 11th  सदी  ) ,  कोलंबस  's voyages  led   to  the first  स्थायी  European  सम्पर्क   साथ   the  Americas ,  inaugurating   a  period  of  European exploration , conquest  ,   और  colonization  कि  lasted for  अनेक  centuries .
वे   था  ,  इसलिए   ,   an  enormous  प्रभाव  in the historical  विकास  of the  आधुनिक  Western world .
Columbus  खुद  saw his accomplishments primarily in the  लाइट  of the  spreading  of  the  Christian religion .
Never  admitting   कि  he had reached  a   महाद्वीप   previously  unknown to  europeans   ,  rather  than   the  East  इंडीज  he had  नियत  out for ,  कोलंबस  called the inhabitants of  the   lands  he  visited   indios   (   स्पेनी  for  ``  Indians  ``  ) .
Columbus 's strained relationship  साथ  the Spanish crown and its appointed colonial administrators  in  America  led   to   उसके  arrest and dismissal as  राज्यपाल  of the settlements  on   the  island of  हिस्पानिओला  in  1500  , and later to  protracted   वाद  over the  लाभ  which Columbus and his  वारिस  claimed were owed  to  them by the  क्राउन   .
करवाया   in  Germany , the  boxer   is   a   नस्ल   of   stocky   ,  medium-sized ,  short-haired   कुत्तो  .
The coat is smooth and tight-fitting  ;   रंगों  are  fawn  or brindled ,  साथ  or without white markings  ,  which may  कवर  the  संपूर्ण  body .
Boxers are brachycephalic ( they  have   व्यापक   ,  short skulls  )  , and  have   a  square muzzle  ,   mandibular   prognathism  ( an underbite ) ,  बहुत   दमदार  jaws ,  और  a  शक्तिशाली  bite ideal  लिये   फांसी  on to large prey  .
The  boxer   थी  bred  इससे   the   बूढ़ा   अंग्रेज़ी  Bulldog and  the  now extinct Bullenbeisser ,  और  is part  of  the Molosser  समूह   .
मुक्केबाज  were  पहला   exhibited   in   a   श्वान  show for St. Bernards  in   म्यूनिख  in 1895  ,   the  first  boxer  club being founded the  अगला  year  .
Based  on   2012  American Kennel Club statistics  ,   मुक्केबाज  held  स्थिर  as  the  seventh most popular  नस्ल  of dog in  the   संयुक्त  States  लिये   the  third  लगातार   साल   .
Serial  ata   (   sata  )  is   a  computer bus interface that connects  मेजबान  bus adapters  to  mass storage devices  ऐसे  as  मुश्किल   डिस्क   ड्राइव  and optical drives .
Serial ATA  replaces  the older  at   अनुलग्नक  standard ( ATA ; later  referred   to  as Parallel ATA  or   pata  ) , offering  अनेक  advantages over the  पुरानी  interface  :  reduced  केबल  size and  लागत  (  सात  conductors instead of  40  ) ,  देशी  hot  swapping   ,  faster data transfer  through  higher  signalling  rates  ,  and more efficient transfer through  an  (  वैकल्पिक   )  I/O queuing protocol .
SATA host adapters  और  devices communicate via  a  high-speed serial  केबल   over  two pairs of conductors .
In  कंट्रास्ट  , parallel ATA ( the redesignation for  the  legacy  ata  specifications ) used a 16-bit wide  आंकड़ा  bus with many additional support and control signals , all  ऑपरेटिंग   at  much  निम्नतर  frequency  .
to  ensure backward  संगतता  with legacy  ata  software and applications , SATA uses the same  मौलिक   ata   और  ATAPI command-set  as   विरासत  ATA devices .
SATA has  replaced  parallel  ata   in   उपभोक्ता  desktop and laptop computers  ,  and  रै   largely  replaced  pata   in  new embedded applications  .
sata  's market  share  in  the  desktop  pc   मार्केट  was  99  %  in   2008  .
PATA  remains   widely   प्रयुक्त  in  औद्योगिक   और  embedded  अनुप्रयोग   कि   उपयोग  CompactFlash  भंडार  , even  हालांकि   the  new  cfast  standard is  आधारित  on  sata  .
Serial  ata  industry  संगतता   विशेषताएँ   originate   इससे  The Serial ATA  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Organization ( aka .
SATA-IO ,  serialata.org   )  .
The SATA-IO  समूह   collaboratively   creates  , reviews  ,  ratifies  ,   और   publishes  the interoperability  विशेषताएँ  , the test cases  ,  and plug-fests .
as  with  अनेक   अन्य  industry compatibility standards  ,   the  SATA content ownership is transferred to other  उद्योग  bodies  :  primarily  the   incits  T13  उपसमिति   ata  , the INCITS  t10  subcommittee ( SCSI ) ;  a   subgroup  of  t10  responsible for Serial Attached  scsi   (   sas   )  .
the  complete specification from SATA-IO  .
the   शेष  of this article will try to  उपयोग   the   शब्दावली  and  विशेषताएँ   of  SATA-IO .
The history of the Internet began  साथ  the  विकास  of electronic  कंप्यूटर  in the 1950s .
the   पब्लिक   थी   पहला  introduced  to  the  अवधारणाओं  that would  सीसे  to  the   अंतरजाल  when  a  message  थी  sent  over  the ARPANet from computer  विज्ञान  Professor  लियोनार्ड  Kleinrock  's   प्रयोगशाला  at University of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ,  लॉस   एंजिल्स  (  ucla  )  ,   बाद   the   दूसरी   टुकड़ा   of  network equipment  थी   संस्थापित  at Stanford Research Institute (  श्री  )  .
पैकेट  switched networks such  as   arpanet   ,  Mark I  at   npl  in  the  UK  ,  CYCLADES  ,  Merit Network , Tymnet ,  और  Telenet , were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s  using  a  किस्में   of  protocols  .
The ARPANET in  particular  led  to  the  विकास  of  प्रोटोकॉल  for internetworking  ,   in  which multiple separate networks  could  be  joined  together into a network  of  networks .
In  1982  ,  the   अंतरजाल  protocol  सुइट  ( TCP/IP ) was standardized  ,  and consequently , the concept  of   a  world-wide network  of  interconnected  tcp/ip   संजाल   ,  called the Internet  ,   थी   introduced  .
Access to the  arpanet  was expanded in  1981  when the  नेशनल  Science Foundation  (  NSF ) developed  the  Computer Science  संजाल   (   csnet   )  and again in 1986 when NSFNET  provided  access to supercomputer  साइट  in the  संयुक्त  States from research and  शिक्षा  organizations .
वाणिज्यिक   अंतरजाल  service providers (  isps   )  began to emerge in  the  late 1980s and  जल्दी  1990s .
The ARPANET was  decommissioned  in  1990   .
the  Internet  थी   commercialized  in  1995   जब  NSFNET was decommissioned  ,   निकालना  the last restrictions on the use of  the   अंतरजाल   to  carry  वाणिज्यिक  traffic .
Since the  mid-1990s   ,   the  Internet has  था  a  क्रांतिकारी   प्रभाव  on culture and commerce  ,  including the  वृद्धि   of  near-instant communication  by  electronic mail ,  तत्काल  messaging  ,  Voice  over  Internet Protocol  (   voip  ) ``  फोन   काल्स   ''  , two-way  इंटरैक्टिव  video calls ,  और  the World  चौड़ी  Web with its discussion  forums   ,  blogs  ,  social  नेटवर्किंग  , and online shopping  साइट   .
The  शोध  and  शिक्षा  community  continues  to  develop   और  use  उन्नत  networks such as NSF 's  बहुत  high speed Backbone Network Service  (   vbns  ) ,  internet2   ,  and National  lambdarail   .
increasing  amounts  of  data  हैं   transmitted  at  उच्चतर   और  higher speeds  over  fiber optic networks operating  at   1-gbit/s   ,  10-Gbit/s , or  अधिक   .
The Internet  's  takeover over  the  global communication  लैंडस्केप  was almost  तत्काल   in  historical  शर्तें  : it only  communicated  1  %  of  the   सूचना   बहती  through two-way telecommunications networks in  the   साल   1993   ,  already 51 % by  2000  , and more than 97 %  of  the telecommunicated  सूचना  by 2007  .
Today  the  Internet continues to grow  ,  driven by ever greater amounts  of   ऑनलाइन   सूचना   ,  commerce  ,  entertainment , and  सोशल  networking .
the   तोहफा  is the second album by Scottish  सिंगर  Susan Boyle , which  थी  released on 8 November 2010 .
Boyle hinted that the album has a 1960s feel  ``   क्युकी  that  थी   [  her ]  era   ''  .
on 30 November  2011   ,   the   एल्बम  received  a   नामांकन  in  54th  Grammy Awards  लिये  Best Traditional  पॉप  Vocal  एल्बम  .
`` This Is Just To  कह  '' (  1934   )   is  a famous imagist poem by  विलियम  Carlos  विलियम्स  .
Professor  ऐल्बस   पर्सिवल  Wulfric Brian  डम्बल्डोर  is  a  major character and protagonist  of  J.  K.  Rowling  's   हैरी  Potter  श्रेणी  .
For  सबसे  of  the   श्रेणी   ,  he is the  हेडमास्टर  of the  wizarding  school Hogwarts  .
as   भाग  of his backstory , it is revealed that he  is  the founder  और  leader of  the  Order of the Phoenix ,  an  organisation dedicated  to   लड़   the  main  विपक्षी  of  the   श्रेणी   ,   रब   voldemort  .
Dumbledore is portrayed by Richard  हैरिस  in the film adaptions  of   हैरी  Potter and  the  Philosopher  's  Stone and Harry  कुम्हार  and the  कक्ष  of Secrets .
बाद  Harris '  मौत  , Michael Gambon portrayed  डम्बल्डोर  for  सब   of   the   बाकी   films  .
रोलिंग  stated  वो   chose  the name  डम्बल्डोर   ,   जिससे   is   an  Early Modern English  शब्द   लिये   ``   bumblebee   ``  , because of Dumbledore 's  प्रेम   of   म्यूज़िक   :   वो  imagined  उसे  walking around `` humming to himself  a   लॉट   ''  .
calcitonin  (  भी  known as thyrocalcitonin ) is  a   32-amino  acid linear polypeptide hormone that is  उत्पादित  in humans primarily by the parafollicular cells ( also known  as   c-cells  ) of  the   थायराइड   ,  and  in  many other animals in  the  ultimobranchial  देह   .
It  अधिनियमों   to  reduce blood calcium (  ca2+   )   ,  opposing the effects of parathyroid hormone (  pth   )   .
Calcitonin has  महरूम  found in fish , reptiles  ,  birds ,  और  mammals .
Its importance  in   इंसानो  has  नहीं   महरूम  as well  स्थापित  as  इसके   महत्व  in other  पशु  , as its function is usually  नहीं  significant  in   the  regulation of  सामान्य   कैल्सियम  homeostasis  .
it  belongs to  calcitonin-like   प्रोटीन  family  .
A mousepad with a padded wrist rest .
A  mousepad   (  US  )  or  चूहा  mat  (   uk   )  is  a  surface  लिये  placing  और  moving a computer  चूहा  .
A mousepad enhances  the   उपयोगिता   of  the  चूहा   compared  to using a  चूहा  directly on  a   तालिका  by  providing   a  surface to  allow   the   ट्रैकिंग   led  or  बॉल   (   in  former  मॉडल   )  to measure  गति   accurately   और   बगैर   जिटर  .
Some mousepads  बढ़ाएँ   ergonomics   by  providing  a  padded wrist  बाकी  .
The  स्टेडियम  seen from  ऊपर  in 1980
December 29  ,  2002 implosion
The  riverfront  Stadium site in June ,  2006   .
इस  photo  थी  taken from the  पश्चिमी  concourse  of   ग्रेट  American  बॉल  Park .
A  छोटी  portion of  the  Riverfront Stadium site  is   अभी   occupied  by the Reds  '  Hall  of  Fame and  संग्रहालय   और  Main Street ,  जिससे  was extended  जब  the  नई   पार्क   थी   निर्मित  .
The  सिनसिनाटी  Bengals  '  Paul  भूरा   स्टेडियम  is  in   the   अलहदा   .
Riverfront Stadium (  1970–1995  )  ,   बाद   ज्ञात  as Cinergy  फ़ील्ड  ( 1996–2002 )  ,   थी   the  home  of   the  Cincinnati Reds  नेशनल   लीग   बेसबॉल   टोली  and  the   सिनसिनाटी  Bengals National  फ़ुटबॉल   लीग  team .
स्तिथ   on  the  ओहियो  River in  शहर   सिनसिनाटी  , the  स्टेडियम   थी   बेहतरीन  known as the home  of   ``  The  बिग  Red  यंत्र  `` , as the Reds were  प्रायः  called in  the  1970s .
Construction began  on  February  1  , 1968 , and was completed  at   a  cost of  कम   than  $ 50 million .
On  जून  30  ,  1970 ,  the  Reds hosted  the   अटलांटा  Braves in  उनके  grand opening ,  साथ  Hank Aaron hitting  the  first ever  घर  run at Riverfront  .
दो  weeks later  on   जुलाई  14 , 1970 , Riverfront  hosted  the  1970  Major  लीग   बेसबॉल  All-Star Game .
इस   खेल   is  best remembered for the often-replayed  टक्कर   at  home  थाली  between  लाल  star  पीट   रोज़  and catcher Ray  fosse  of  the   क्लीवलैंड   इंडियंस  .
In September 1996  ,  Riverfront  स्टेडियम  was renamed ``  cinergy   फ़ील्ड   ''   in  a  प्रायोजन  deal with Greater Cincinnati 's energy  कम्पनी  ,  cinergy  Corporation .
In  2001  , to  मेक   रूम   लिये   ग्रेट   अमरीकी   बॉल   पार्क   ,  the seating  क्षमता   at  Cinergy  फ़ील्ड   थी  reduced  to  39,000 .
There was a  विशाल   वॉल  in  बीच  Field visible after  the   renovations   ,  to serve  as  the  बैटर   's   नजर  .
The stadium  थी  demolished by implosion on December 29 , 2002  .
Nexen Tire is  a  tire manufacturer  ,   headquartered  in  yangsan  , South Gyeongsang Province , and Seoul ,  दोनो   in   दक्षिण  Korea  .
Its major domestic competitors  हैं  Hankook Tire and  kumho   टायर  .
The  कम्पनी  's name  is   reflected  in  the  company slogan ,  ``   अगला   सदी   टायर   .  ''
The  मूक  majority is an  अनिर्दिष्ट   विशाल  majority  of  people in a country or  समूह   जो  do not express their opinions  सरेआम  .
the  term was popularized  (  though  नहीं   पहला  used  )   by  U.S. President Richard Nixon  in  a November 3  ,   1969  ,  वाक   in   जिससे  he said  ,   ``  And so tonight—to you  ,  the  ग्रेट  silent majority  of   my   fellow   americans—i   पूछो  for your support  .  ''
in  this usage it referred  to   those  Americans  जो  did not  जुड़ें  in the  विशाल   demonstrations   विरूद्ध  the Vietnam War  at   the   समय  , who did  नहीं   जुड़ें   in  the  counterculture  ,  और   जो  did  नहीं   participate  in public discourse  .
Nixon  साथ   साथ  many others saw  इस   समूह  of Middle  अमेरिकी   as   होने   निष्प्रभ   in   the   मीडिया  by  the  more vocal minority .
the  phrase  थी   प्रयुक्त   in   the  19th  सदी  as a  प्रेयोक्ति   referring  to all  the  people who  have   died  , and  अन्य  have  प्रयुक्त  it before  और   बाद  Nixon to refer to  समूह  of  मतदाता   in  various  राष्ट्र  of the  संसार   .
Sam ,  a  rhesus monkey , flew to an  ऊँचाई   of  88  km   in   1959   .
(  NASA  )
Before  इंसानो  went  into   स्पेस   ,   अनेक  animals  यहूद  launched into space ,  सहित   numerous  monkeys , so that  वैज्ञानिकों  could investigate the  biological  effects of  स्पेस  travel .
The United  राज्य   शुभारम्भ   फ़्लाइट  containing  primate   कार्गो  primarily between 1948-1961 with one flight  in  1969 and one in 1985  .
फ़्रांस   शुभारम्भ  two monkey-carrying flights  in   1967   .
the  Soviet Union  और  Russia launched  बंदरों   between  1983  और  1996  .
Most monkeys  यहूद   anesthetized  before lift-off .
overall  thirty-two monkeys flew in  the  space program ; none flew  अधिक  than once  .
Numerous  back-up  monkeys  भी  went  through  the programs but  never  flew  .
Monkeys from several species were  प्रयुक्त  , including rhesus  बंदरों  ,  cynomolgus  monkeys , squirrel  बंदरों   ,  and  pig-tailed  macaques .
Some  chimpanzees   (  which are apes rather than monkeys  )  were also used .
रेड   (  redundant array of independent disks ,  originally  redundant array of  inexpensive  disks ) is a  भंडार  technology that combines multiple disk drive components  into   a   लॉजिकल  unit .
Data  is  distributed across  the  drives in one  of  several ways  पुकारा  ``  रेड  levels  ''  , depending on the level of redundancy and  प्रदर्शन  required  .
the  term  ``   रेड  ''  थी  first defined by  दाउद   पैटरसन   ,   garth  A. Gibson  ,   और  Randy  katz   at   the  University of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ,   बर्कली  in  1987  .
Marketers representing  उद्योग  RAID manufacturers later attempted to  reinvent  the term to describe a  अनावश्यक  array of  स्वतंत्र  disks as a means  of   disassociating  a  low-cost  expectation from  रेड   प्रौद्योगिकी   .
RAID  is   अभी  used as  an  umbrella term for computer data storage  योजनाएं  that can  divide   और   replicate  data  among  multiple  शारीरिक   ड्राइव   :  RAID is  an  example  of  storage  आभासीकरण   और  the  सरणी  can be accessed by the operating  प्रणाली   as  one  सिंगल   ड्राइव   .
the   अलग  schemes  or   architectures   हैं   नामित   by   the  word RAID followed  by  a number ( e.g . RAID  0   ,   रेड   1   )  .
प्रत्येक  scheme provides  a   अलग   संतुलन  between the key goals  :   विश्वसनीयता  and  उपलब्धता  , performance  और  capacity  .
RAID levels greater than  रेड  0 provide  सुरक्षा  against  unrecoverable  ( sector  )  read  त्रुटियाँ   ,   as   खूब  as  पूरे  disk failure  .
A lymphocyte is a type  of   श्वेत   रक्त  cell  in  the  vertebrate  immune system .
Under  the  microscope , lymphocytes  can  be divided into large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes .
विशाल   granular   lymphocytes   शामिल   प्राकृतिक  killer  कोशिकाएं  (  nk   कोशिकाएं  ) .
Small lymphocytes  consist  of T cells and  b  cells .
The  बिग  Lebowski  is   a  1998 dark  कॉमेडी  film written and directed by Joel and Ethan Coen .
Jeff Bridges stars as  जेफ़  Lebowski  ,  an  बेरोजगार  Los  एंजिल्स   slacker  and  avid  bowler , nicknamed  ``  The Dude  .   ''
After a case  of  mistaken  पहचान  , The Dude  is   introduced   to  a millionaire also named Jeffrey Lebowski .
When the millionaire  lebowski   's   ट्रॉफी  wife is  बाद   kidnapped   ,  he commissions The  यार   to  deliver  the  ransom  to  secure her  रिलीज  .
The  योजना  goes awry when The Dude  's   dost  Walter  sobchak  ( John Goodman )  योजनाएं   to   रखना   the  full ransom  .
स्टीव  Buscemi , Philip  seymour  Hoffman  ,   दाउद  Huddleston ,  julianne  Moore  ,  Tara  reid  ,  और   जॉन  Turturro  भी  star  in   the   फिल्मी  , which is narrated by a cowboy known only  as  `` The Stranger ''  ,   निभाई   by   sam   elliott   .
The film  is   loosely  inspired  by  the  कार्य  of  रेमंड   चांडलर   .
Joel Coen  stated   :   ``   we   चाही  to  do  a Chandler  दयालु   of   स्टोरी   –   कैसा  it moves episodically  ,  and deals  साथ  the  वर्ण  trying  to  unravel a mystery ,  as  well as having a hopelessly complex  प्लाट  that  's  ultimately  महत्वहीन  .  ''
The  असली  score was  रचित  by Carter  burwell  ,  a   longtime  collaborator of  the  Coen  भाइयो  .
The  बिग  Lebowski  थी   a  disappointment  at  the  u.S.  box  दफ्तर  and  प्राप्त  mixed  समीक्षाएँ  at the  समय   of  its  रिलीज   .
Reviews  have  trended  towards   the  positive over time  ,  and the film  रै  become  a  cult  पसंदीदा   ,  noted for  इसके  idiosyncratic characters  ,   सपना   sequences  , unconventional dialogue , and  eclectic  soundtrack .
सेवेरस  Snape  is   a  fictional  अक्षर   in   the   हैरी  Potter book  श्रेणी  written by J.K.  रोलिंग   .
In the first novel  of  the series , he is hostile  toward  Harry  और  is built up  to  be the  प्राथमिक  antagonist until the final  अध्याय  .
As  the   श्रेणी  progresses , Snape  's  character becomes  अधिक  layered  और  complex  .
रोलिंग  does not  fully  reveal the  विवरण  of his true  loyalties  until the  समाप्त   of   the  final  किताब  ,  हैरी   कुम्हार   और  the Deathly Hallows .
over   the  course  of   the   श्रेणी  , Snape  's  portrayal  evolves   इससे   कि   of   a   दुर्भावनापूर्ण  and  दलगत   टीचर   to   कि   of  a pivotal character of considerable complexity and  moral   ambiguity   .
Snape primarily teaches Potions at  हॉग्वार्ट्स  , though in  the   छठे   अनोखा   he  teaches  रक्षा  Against the  अंधेरा   कला  , a  स्थिति   जिससे  he  थी  known  to   have  desired throughout the  श्रेणी   .
He  ultimately  becomes  हेडमास्टर  of  हॉग्वार्ट्स  in the  फाइनल  novel .
Rowling has  वर्णित  him  as   ``   a   तोहफा   of  a character '' .
grits   refers  to  a   ground-corn   खाना  of Native  अमरीकी  origin  ,   कि   is   आम  in the Southern United States and mainly eaten at  नाश्ता   .
आधुनिक   grits  are commonly  बना   of   alkali-treated  corn known as  hominy   .
Grits are similar  to  other  मोटा  maize-based porridges  इससे   around  the world such  as  polenta  or  the thinner farina .
`` Instant grits  ''  have been processed to  गति   कुकिंग  .
the  word  ``   grits  ''  गर्भाशयी   इससे   the   बूढ़ा  English  शब्द  ``  grytt  , '' meaning  coarse   भोजन  .
इस  word originally referred to  गेहूं  and other  porridges  now known  as   groats  in parts of  the  U.K..
Maize ,  अनजान   in   यूरोपीय  in the Middle Ages  ,   is   a  food derived from  मकई  ( a New World plant )  और   ``  corn  ''  had  महरूम   प्रयुक्त   to  describe wheat products in many  यूरोपीय  regions .
`` Grits ''  may   be   either  singular  or  plural  ;  historically ,  in   the   अमरीकी  South  the  word  थी   invariably   एकवचन  notwithstanding its plural  रूप   (  cf  .   ऐसे  food  names   as  ``  स्पघेटी   ''  or  ``  linguine '' , likewise plural in  रूप  , but singular in use  )   .
Sometimes  ,  grits  हैं  called  sofkee   or  sofkey (  इससे   a   देशी  American Muskogee word ) .
in  molecular biology  ,   इंसान  chorionic gonadotropin  (  hCG )  is  a hormone produced  by  the fertilized egg after conception .
बाद  during pregnancy  it   is  made  by   the  developing placenta  ,  and  बाद  by  the  placental component  syncytiotrophoblast  .
कुछ  cancerous tumors produce  इस   हार्मोन   ;   इसलिए  , elevated levels  measured  when the patient  is  not  गर्भवती  can  सीसे  to  a  cancer  निदान  .
However , it  is   नहीं  known whether this  उत्पादन  is a contributing cause or an effect  of  tumorigenesis .
The pituitary analogue  of  hCG  ,  known as luteinizing hormone  (  LH )  ,  is produced  in  the  pituitary   ग्रंथि  of males and  महिलाओं  of all ages  .
,   the   एफडीए  has prohibited the sale of ``  होम्योपैथिक   ''  and over the  काउंटर  hCG  आहार   उत्पाद  and  घोषित   उन्हें   बेईमान   और   illegal  .
The Las Vegas Strip World  of   coca-cola  museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a  कार्बोनेटेड   नरम   पेय   बेची   in   स्टोर्स  , restaurants , and  वेंडिंग   मशीने  in  प्रत्येक   देश  except Cuba and North  कोरियाई   .
It  is  produced  by  The Coca-Cola  कम्पनी  of Atlanta , Georgia  ,  and is often referred  to   बस  as  कोक  (  a  registered trademark  of  The Coca-Cola Company in  the  United States  चूंकि   कूच   27   ,   1944  ) .
Originally intended  as  a patent medicine when it  थी  invented in the late  19th  century by John Pemberton ,  coca-cola  was  खरीदा  out by businessman  asa  Griggs  candler  , whose marketing  tactics  led Coke to  इसके  dominance  of  the  संसार  soft-drink  मार्केट   throughout   the  20th  सदी  .
the  company  produces  concentrate , which  is  then sold  to  licensed  coca-cola  bottlers  throughout  the  संसार  .
The bottlers  ,   जो  hold  territorially  exclusive contracts with the company , produce finished product in  डिब्बे   और  bottles from the  concentrate   in  combination  साथ  filtered water and sweeteners .
The bottlers then sell , distribute  और  merchandise Coca-Cola to  खुदरा  stores  और  vending  मशीने  .
Such  bottlers   शामिल  Coca-Cola Enterprises , which is the  largest  single Coca-Cola  bottler  in  उत्तर  America and western Europe .
the   coca-cola  Company also  बिकता  concentrate  लिये   सोडा   स्रोतों  to  प्रमुख   रेस्तरां   और   खाना  service distributors .
The Coca-Cola  कम्पनी   रै  , on occasion ,  introduced   अन्य   कोला   पेय  under the Coke brand  नाम   .
the  most  आम  of  ये  is Diet  कोक   ,  with  अन्य  including  caffeine-free  Coca-Cola ,  आहार   कोक  Caffeine-Free ,  coca-cola  Cherry , Coca-Cola  शून्य  , Coca-Cola  वैनिला   ,   और  special  संस्करण  with  नीबू  ,  लाइम   or  coffee .
Based on  interbrand   's   बेहतरीन   वैश्विक  brand 2011 ,  coca-cola  was  the  world 's most  मूल्यवान  brand .
an   ombudsman  is an  आधिकारिक  , usually appointed by the government  or  by parliament  लकिन   साथ  a significant degree  of  independence  ,  who is  चार्ज  with representing  the  interests  of  the  पब्लिक  by  investigating   और   संबोधित   शिकायत  of maladministration  or  violation  of  rights .
in  some countries an Inspector  सामान्य   ,  Citizen  एडवोकेट   or   अन्य  official  may  have duties  समान  to those of a national ombudsman , and may also be appointed  by  the legislature .
Below the national level an ombudsman may  be   नियुक्त  by a  राज्य  ,  लोकल  or  नगरपालिका  government  ,  and unofficial ombudsmen may be appointed  by   ,  or even  कार्य  for ,  a  corporation  ऐसे   as  a utility supplier or  a   समाचारपत्र  , for  an  NGO ,  or   लिये   a   पेशेवर   नियामक  body .
whether   नियुक्त  by  the  legislature , the executive ,  or  an  संगठन   (  or  ,   कम   अक्सर   ,  elected by the constituency  कि   he   or   वो   serves   )   ,   the  typical  कर्तव्य  of  an  ombudsman are to  investigate  complaints and attempt  to  resolve  उन्हें  , usually  through  recommendations ( binding or not ) or  मध्यस्थता  .
ombudsmen   sometimes  also aim to  पहचानो  systemic  मुद्दे   अग्रणी  to poor service  or  breaches of people 's rights .
at  the national level , most ombudsmen have  a  wide mandate to deal with  the   संपूर्ण  public sector , and  sometimes   भी   तत्व  of  the  private sector (  लिये  example ,  contracted   सेवा  providers  )   .
in   कुछ  cases ,  वहीँ  is a  अधिक   प्रतिबंधित  mandate , for example with particular  सेक्टर   of   समाज  .
More  हाल  developments  have  included the creation  of  specialised Children 's Ombudsman  और  Information Commissioner agencies .
in   कुछ   jurisdictions  an  ombudsman   चार्ज  with the handling of  चिंताएं   परिचय  national government  is   अधिक  formally referred  to  as  the  `` Parliamentary Commissioner '' ( e.g  .  the United Kingdom  संसदीय  Commissioner for Administration , and  the  Western Australian  राज्य  Ombudsman  )   .
in  many  देशों  where the  ombudsman  's remit extends  परे   dealing  with  कथित  maladministration to  promoting  and  protecting  human  अधिकारों  , the  ombudsman  is  recognised   as  the national human rights institution  .
the  post  of   ombudsman   था  by the  समाप्त  of  the  20th  सदी  been instituted  by   सबसे  governments  और  by some  intergovernmental  organizations  ऐसे   as  the  यूरोपीय  Union .
Making  a  complaint to an ombudsman is  प्रायः  free of  चार्ज  .
Sign  at  Georgetown University  वॉशिंगटन  DC
Sign in  बांजुल   ,  The  गाम्बिया
Autumn  in   नई  England ,  watercolor  , Maurice  prendergast  .
Ca .  1910–1913
पतन   foliage  in the town  of   स्टो  ,  वर्मांट
New  इंग्लैण्ड  is  a  region in the  northeastern  corner of the United States consisting of  the   छह   राज्य  of Maine  ,   नई  Hampshire  ,  Vermont ,  मैसाचुसेट्स  , Rhode  द्वीप  ,  और  Connecticut .
New England is bordered by  नई   यॉर्क  state  to   the   दक्षिणपश्चिम   ,   क्यूबेक  to  the   उत्तरपश्चिम  , and New  ब्रंसविक  and  the   अटलांटिक  Ocean to  the  east .
in   एक   of  the earliest English settlements in North America , Pilgrims  इससे  England first settled in New England in 1620  ,  to form Plymouth  उपनिवेश  .
टेन  years later  ,   the   puritans   settled  north of  plymouth  Colony in Boston  ,  thus  forming  Massachusetts Bay  उपनिवेश  .
Over  the   अगला   130   सालो   ,  New England  लड़ा  in four French and Indian  युद्धों   ,   जबतक  the  अंग्रेजों  defeated  the  French and their  देशी   allies   in   उत्तर  America .
in  the late 18th  सदी  ,  the  New  इंग्लैण्ड  Colonies initiated  the  resistance  to  the  अंग्रेजों  Parliament 's  प्रयत्न  to impose  नई  taxes without  the  consent  of  the  colonists  .
The  बोस्टन  Tea Party was  a  protest to  जिससे   ग्रेट  Britain  responded   साथ  a  श्रेणी  of  दंडात्मक   कानून  stripping  मैसाचुसेट्स  of  self-government  ,  जिससे   यहूद   termed  the `` Intolerable Acts  ``  by the colonists  .
The confrontation  led  to open  warfare   in  1775  ,   the  expulsion of the  अंग्रेजों  authorities  इससे  New  इंग्लैण्ड   in  spring 1776 ,  और  the Declaration of  स्वतंत्रता   in  July 1776 .
Some  of  the  पहला   आंदोलनों  of American  साहित्य   ,   दर्शनशास्त्र  ,  और  education  originated  in  नई   इंग्लैण्ड   .
the  region  निभाई  a prominent  भूमिका   in  the  गति   to  abolish  गुलामी  , and  थी  the first region of  the  United States to  be  transformed by the Industrial Revolution .
आज   ,  New  इंग्लैण्ड  is  a  major  संसार   बीच   of  education ,  ऊँची   प्रौद्योगिकी  , insurance , and medicine .
Boston is its cultural ,  वित्तीय   ,  educational  ,  medical and  परिवहन  center .
प्रत्येक  state is principally  subdivided  into small  incorporated  municipalities  ज्ञात   as   नई   इंग्लैण्ड   कस्बों  ,  जिससे   हैं  often  governed   by  town meeting .
The  तभी  unincorporated  territory  in New England exists in  the  sparse , northern regions  of   वर्मांट   ,   नई   हैम्पशायर  ,  और   maine  .
Since 1970 , voters have more  प्रायः  supported  उदार   उम्मीदवार  at the state and federal  स्तर  than  those  of  कोई  other region  in   the  United  राज्य  .
नई  England is  the  only  एक   of   the  United States Census Bureau 's  नौ  regional divisions  जिनकी  name does  नहीं  derive  इससे   इसके   भूगोल   ,  and it is  the  only  multi-state   प्रदेश   साथ   साफ   ,   सतत  boundaries .
it   maintains   a   दमदार   भाव   of  cultural  पहचान   नियत  apart from the  बाकी  of  the  country , although the  शर्तें  of this  पहचान   हैं  often contested ,  combining   puritanism   साथ  liberalism ,  कृषिक   जीवन   साथ   उद्योग   ,   और  isolation with  आव्रजन  .
आपात  !
is an  अमरीकी  television  श्रेणी   कि   combines  the medical  नाटक  and  action-adventure   जाति   .
It was  उत्पादित  by Mark VII Limited and distributed by Universal  studios  .
It  debuted   as   a  midseason  बदलना   on   जनवरी  15 , 1972 ,  on   एनबीसी   ,   replacing   the  two  short-lived   श्रेणी   the   साझेदार  and  the   शुभ  Life  ,  and ran until  सितंबर   3   ,  1977 , with six  अतिरिक्त  two-hour  टेलीविज़न   films  during the following  दो   सालो   .
Emergency !
was  निर्मित  and produced  by  Jack Webb and  रॉबर्ट   A.   cinader  , both  of   जिसको  were  भी   जिम्मेदार   लिये  the police dramas Adam-12 and Dragnet .
The Eastern Time Zone  (   et   )   encompasses   17  U.S. states  in   the   पूर्वी  part of the contiguous  संयुक्त  States , parts  of  Canada  और  three  देशों   in  South America .
Places that use Eastern Standard Time (  est  )  जब   observing  standard time  (  autumn/winter ) are 5 hours behind  समन्वित  Universal Time  (  )  .
Eastern Daylight  समय  (  edt   )  ,  जब  observing  daylight   छायांकन   समय   (  spring/summer )  is   4   घंटों  behind  समन्वित  Universal  समय  ( ) .
in  the  उत्तरी  parts  of  the time  मण्डल  ,  दौरान  the  दूसरी   संडे  in March ,  at   2:00  a.m. EST  ,  clocks are  उन्नत  to 3:00  a.m.   edt  leaving a  एक  hour `` gap  .   ''
During the first Sunday in November  ,  at 2:00  a.m.  EDT  ,  clocks  हैं  moved back  to  1:00 a.m. EST , thus `` duplicating  ''   एक  hour .
दक्षिणी  parts  of   the   मण्डल  (  पनामा  and the  caribbean   )   do  not observe daylight saving  .
Standard form  of  the periodic table .
the   रंगों  represent different categories  of  elements explained  नीचे   .
The periodic  तालिका  is a tabular  प्रदर्शक   of   the  chemical  तत्व   ,  organized on the basis of their atomic numbers  ,  electron  configurations   ,  and  पुनरावर्ती   रासायनिक   गुण  .
Elements are  प्रस्तुत   in   अनुक्रम  of  increasing   परमाणु   क्रमांक  ( number  of  protons ) .
the  standard form  of  table comprises an 18 × 7 grid  or   प्रमुख   देह  of elements  ,  positioned above a smaller double row  of  elements .
the   तालिका  can also  be  deconstructed into four rectangular  ब्लॉक   :  the  s-block  to the left ,  the   p-block  to  the  right , the d-block in the middle  ,  and the  f-block  below that .
The  पंक्ति   of  the  तालिका   हैं  called periods ;  the  columns  of  the s- , d- ,  और  p-blocks  हैं  called groups , with some of these  having   names   ऐसे   as  the  हैलोजन्स  or the noble  गैसों  .
Since  ,   by  definition , a periodic table incorporates recurring trends , any such table can be  प्रयुक्त  to derive  संबंध   between  the  गुण   of   the  elements  और   भविष्यवाणी   the   गुण  of  नई   ,  yet to be discovered  or   synthesized  , elements .
as  a  परिणाम  , a periodic table—whether in  the  standard form or some  अन्य   variant—provides  a  उपयोगी  framework  लिये  analyzing chemical  बर्ताव  , and such tables are widely  प्रयुक्त  in  रसायन  and  अन्य   sciences   .
Although precursors exist , Dmitri  mendeleev   is  generally  credited  with  the   प्रकाशन   ,  in 1869 , of the  पहला  widely recognized periodic table .
He developed  उसके   तालिका  to illustrate periodic  रुझान  in the properties  of  the  then-known   तत्व  .
mendeleev  also  पूर्वानुमानित  some properties  of   then-unknown  elements that  होता  be expected to  भरण  gaps in this table .
सबसे  of his predictions were proved correct when the elements  in  question were  subsequently   खोजा  .
mendeleev  's  आवधिक  table has since been expanded and refined with the discovery or synthesis of  further  new elements  और  the  विकास  of  नई  theoretical models to explain  रासायनिक   बर्ताव  .
All elements from  परमाणु   संख्याएँ  1 (  हाइड्रोजन   )  to 118 ( ununoctium )  have   महरूम  discovered  or  synthesized  .
the  elements  इससे  1  to  98 ( californium )  have   महरूम  found to  मौजूद   naturally   ,  although some are found only in trace  amounts  and  यहूद   initially  discovered  by  synthesis in laboratories .
The elements after 98 have only  महरूम   synthesized  in laboratories .
Production of elements beyond  ununoctium   is  being  धड़ा  , with the question  of  how the  आवधिक  table  may  need to  be   परिवर्धित  to accommodate any such additions being  a   पदार्थ   of  ongoing debate .
numerous  synthetic radionuclides  of  naturally  occurring   तत्व  have also  महरूम  produced in laboratories .
minecraft   is  a sandbox indie  खेल  originally created  by   स्वीडिश  programmer Markus `` Notch ''  persson  and later developed  और  published  by   mojang  .
It was publicly  released   लिये   the  PC on May 17  ,  2009  ,  as a  developmental   अल्फा   संस्करण   और  , after gradual updates , was published as a full  रिलीज  version on November  18   ,  2011 .
A version for  एंड्रॉइड   थी  released a month  पहले   on  October 7 ,  और  an iOS version was released  on   नवम्बर  17  ,   2011  .
on  May 9 , 2012 ,  the   खेल  was  released   on  Xbox 360  as   an   एक्सबॉक्स   सजीव  Arcade  खेल  , co-developed by 4J Studios  .
All versions of Minecraft receive  आवधिक   अद्यतन  .
the   रचनात्मक  and building aspects  of   minecraft  allow players  to  build constructions out of textured cubes  in  a  3d   procedurally  generated world .
Other activities  in   the  game include  खोजी  ,  महफ़िल  resources , crafting  और  combat  .
gameplay  in its commercial release has two principal  मोड्स  : survival , which  requires  players  to  acquire resources and maintain their health and hunger ;  और  creative  ,   जहाँ  players  have  an unlimited supply of resources  ,   the  ability  to  fly  ,   और  no  स्वास्थ्य   or  hunger  .
A third gameplay mode  नामित  hardcore is  the  same as  अस्तित्व  , differing only in difficulty  ;   it  is set  to   hardest   सेटिंग  and  respawning  is disabled ,  forcing  players to delete their worlds  upon   मौत  .
Minecraft  प्राप्त  five awards  इससे  the 2011  खेल   डेवलपर   सम्मेलन  :  it   थी   awarded  the Innovation  पुरस्कार   ,   बेहतरीन  Downloadable  खेल  Award , and the  बेहतरीन  Debut  खेल   पुरस्कार   इससे  the Game Developers Choice Awards ;  और   the   दर्शक  Award ,  as   खूब   as  the  seumas  McNally Grand  पुरस्कार  , from the  स्वतंत्र   खेल  Festival in 2011 .
in  2012  ,   minecraft  was awarded  a  Golden Joystick Award in the category Best Downloadable Game  .
As of  अप्रैल  8 , 2013  ,   the  game has  बेची  over 10 million  नक़ल  on PC  और   as   of   जनवरी  22 ,  2013   ,   over  20 million  नक़ल  across  सब  platforms .
The Dark  नाईट  is a  2008   british-american   सुपरहीरो   फिल्मी   निर्देशित  , produced , and  co-written  by  क्रिस्टोफर  Nolan .
Based on the DC Comics character Batman ,  the   फिल्मी   is  the second  भाग  of Nolan 's  बैटमैन  film  श्रेणी  and  a   sequel   to   2005  's Batman Begins  .
ईसाई  Bale  reprises  the lead  भूमिका   of   ब्रूस  Wayne/Batman , with  a  returning cast  of  Michael  caine   as  Alfred  pennyworth  , Gary Oldman  as   जेम्स  Gordon  और  Morgan Freeman as Lucius  फॉक्स  .
the  film  introduces   the   अक्षर  of Harvey Dent ( Aaron  eckhart  )  ,  Gotham 's newly elected  ज़िला   attorney  and the consort of Bruce Wayne 's childhood friend Rachel Dawes  (   मैगी  Gyllenhaal  )   ,   जो  joins Batman  और   the   पुलिस   in   combating   the   नई   उठती  threat  of  a  दण्ड   मास्टरमाइंड  calling  खुद   ``   the   जोकर   ``   (   झाड़  Ledger  )   .
Nolan 's  प्रेरणा   लिये  the film was the  जोकर   's  comic book  डेब्यू   in   1940   ,   the  1988 graphic novel  ,  and  the  1996  श्रेणी   ,   जिससे   retold  Two-Face  's  origin  .
the  nickname `` the Dark Knight '' was first applied to Batman in Batman No  .  1  (  1940 ) ,  in  a story written  by   विधेयक  Finger .
the  Dark Knight was filmed primarily  in   शिकागो   ,  as  खूब  as  in  several  अन्य  locations in  the  United States  ,   the   संयुक्त  Kingdom  ,   और   हांग   काँग   .
नोलन   प्रयुक्त  an  imax   कैमरा   to   फिल्मी   कुछ  sequences  ,   सहित   the   जोकर   's   पहला   रूप   in  the film  .
On  जनवरी  22 ,  2008   ,  some  महीने   बाद  he had completed filming on  the  Dark  नाईट   और  six months  पहले  the film  's  release , Heath Ledger  died  from a toxic combination of prescription  दवाएँ  , leading  to  intense  ध्यान  from  the  press  और  movie-going  पब्लिक  .
warner  Bros. had initially created a viral marketing campaign for The  अंधेरा   नाईट   ,   विकासशील   promotional   वेबसाइटों   और   trailers   highlighting   स्क्रीन  shots of Ledger  as  the Joker , but after Ledger  's   मौत  ,  the  studio refocused its promotional campaign .
The  अंधेरा  Knight  थी   released   on  July 16 ,  2008  in Australia  ,  on  जुलाई   18  ,  2008   in  North America ,  और   on   जुलाई  24 ,  2008  in the  संयुक्त   किंगडम  .
Considered  एक   of  the  बेहतरीन  films of the 2000s and  एक  of  the   बेहतरीन  superhero films ever made , the film received highly positive reviews and  नियत   numerous   रिकॉर्ड  during its  नाट्य   चलाएं   .
साथ  over $  1   अरब  in revenue  विश्वव्यापी   ,  it is the 14th-highest-grossing film of  सब  time ,  unadjusted  for inflation  .
The film  प्राप्त  eight Academy Award  nominations  ;  it  won the award  लिये  Best  ध्वनि  Editing and Ledger  थी  posthumously  awarded   बेहतरीन  Supporting  कर्ता  .
the  Dark  नाईट  Rises ,  the   फाइनल  part  of  the trilogy , was  released  on  जुलाई  20 ,  2012  .
the  timeline of radio  सूचियाँ   भीतर  the  इतिहास  of  रेडियो   ,  the technology and events that  उत्पादित  instruments that  उपयोग   रेडियो   लहरें  and  क्रियाएँ   कि  people undertook .
Later  ,  the  इतिहास  is  वर्चस्व   by  programming and  सामग्री   ,   जिससे   is   करीब  to general history  .
the   सिडनी   ओपेरा  House  is  a multi-venue  performing  arts centre in  नई  South Wales  ,  Australia  .
It  थी   conceived  and largely built by  डैनिश  architect Jørn Utzon  ,  opening  in   1973  after  a   long  gestation  कि   began   साथ  his competition-winning design in 1957  .
Joseph  काहिल  's New South Wales Government gave the  go-ahead  for work to  शुरू   in  1958  .
The government 's  बिंदास  decision to  चुनें   utzon   's   डिज़ाइन  is  प्रायः  overshadowed by the scandal  कि   followed   .
it  is  on   bennelong  Point  in   सिडनी  Harbour , close  to  the Sydney Harbour Bridge  .
it  sits  at   the  northeastern  टिप   of  the Sydney central business  ज़िला   (  the  सीबीडी  ) ,  घिरी   on  three sides by the  harbour   (   सिडनी  Cove and Farm  कोव  ) and inland by the  royal  Botanic Gardens .
contrary   to  its name , it houses multiple performance venues  .
it  is among the busiest  performing  arts  केंद्रों   in  the world , hosting over 1,500  प्रदर्शन  each  साल  attended  by  some 1.2  लाख   लोगों  .
It provides a  स्थान  for  अनेक  performing-arts  कंपनियाँ  , including  the  four key  निवासी   कंपनियाँ  Opera Australia ,  the   ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  Ballet , the Sydney Theatre  कम्पनी  and  the  Sydney Symphony Orchestra  ,   और   presents   a   चौड़ी   दायरा   of   प्रोडक्शन्स  on its  अपना  account .
it   is  also one  of  the most popular visitor  आकर्षण  in Australia  ,  with more than seven  लाख  people  visiting  each year  ,  300,000 of whom take a guided tour .
It is  administered  by  the  Sydney  ओपेरा  House Trust , under  the  New  दक्षिण   वेल्स  Ministry of the  कला  .
On  28   जून  2007 , it  थी  made a  युनेस्को  World  विरासत  Site .
it   is  one  of  the 20th  सदी  's  सबसे  distinctive buildings  और  one of  the   सबसे  famous  performing  arts centres in the world  .
a   आलेख   of  body mass index as  a   फलन  of body mass and  देह   ऊँचाई  is  दिखाया  above .
the  dashed  लाइनों  represent  subdivisions  within  a  major  क्लास  .
लिये   उदाहरण  the ``  underweight  ''  वर्गीकरण  is  further  divided into  ``  severe  ''  , `` moderate ''  ,  and  ``  mild '' subclasses  .
The  देह  mass index  (   बीएमआई   )  , or  quetelet  index , is  a  measure for human  देह  shape based  on   an  individual 's weight and  ऊँचाई  .
It was  devised  between 1830  और   1850  by the  belgian  polymath Adolphe Quetelet during  the  course of developing ``  सोशल  physics  ''   .
देह   द्रव्यमान   अनुक्रमणिका   is  defined  as   the  individual 's body  द्रव्यमान   विभाजित   by  the  वर्गाकार   of  their height .
The formulae  universally  used  in   आयुर्विज्ञान   उपज  a unit of measure of kg/m2 .
बीएमआई  can also  be   संकल्पित  using  a   बीएमआई  chart  ,  which displays  बीएमआई  as  a  function of weight (  आड़ा  axis ) and height (  लंबवत  axis ) using contour  लाइनों  for different values of  बीएमआई  or colors  लिये   अलग   बीएमआई   श्रेणी  .
† The factor for  uk/us  units  is  more precisely  703.06957964  ,  लकिन  that  स्तर   of  precision  is  not meaningful for this  गणना  .
To work from stone and pounds first multiply the  स्टोन  by  14  then add the  पाउंड   to   दे   the   पूरे   द्रव्यमान   in  pounds ;  to  work from  फीट   और  inches first multiply the feet by 12  तब  add the inches to  दे   the  whole height  in  inches  .
Thomas  paine   (   जनवरी   29  , 1737  (   ns   फ़रवरी  9 ,  1737  )  –  June 8 , 1809  )  was  an  English-American political activist , author , political  theorist  and revolutionary .
as   the   लेखक  of  दो   अत्यधिक  influential pamphlets  at  the  प्रारंभ   of  the American  क्रान्ति  ,  he  inspired the Patriots in 1776 to  घोषित   स्वतंत्रता  from Britain .
His  विचार  reflected  आत्मज्ञान   era   बयानबाजी  of  transnational   इंसान   अधिकारों  .
He has  महरूम   पुकारा  `` a corsetmaker  by   व्यापार   ,   a   पत्रकार   by  profession ,  और   a  propagandist by inclination  .  ''
born  in  thetford  ,  इंग्लैण्ड  , in the county of  नॉर्फ़ोक   ,  Paine emigrated to the British  अमरीकी   colonies  in 1774  साथ   the  help  of   बेंजामिन   फ्रैंकलिन   और  he  arrived  in time to  participate  in  the  American  क्रान्ति  .
उसके  principal contributions  यहूद   the  powerful , widely read pamphlet Common Sense  (  1776  )  , the all-time  best-selling   अमरीकी  book that advocated  औपनिवेशिक  America 's  स्वतंत्रता  from  the   किंगडम  of Great  ब्रिटेन  , and The  अमरीकी  Crisis (  1776–83   )   ,  a pro-revolutionary  pamphlet   श्रेणी  .
Common  भाव  was  so  influential that  जॉन  Adams said ,  ``  Without the pen of  the  author of Common Sense , the sword of Washington  होता   have   महरूम  raised in vain.”
paine  lived in  फ़्रांस   लिये   सबसे   of   the  1790s  ,  becoming deeply  शामिल  in  the  French Revolution .
He wrote the  अधिकारों  of  man  ( 1791  )  ,  in  part  a  defence of the French Revolution  विरूद्ध  its critics .
His attacks on  अंग्रेजों  writer  एडमंड   बुर्के  led  to  a trial and conviction in  absentia   in  1792 for  the   अपराधों   of  seditious libel .
in  1792 , despite not  होने  able  to  speak French  ,  he was elected to the French National Convention .
The  girondists  regarded  उसे   as  an ally .
नतीजतन   ,  the  montagnards   ,   विशेषकर   robespierre   ,   regarded   उसे   as  an  दुश्मन   .
In December  1793   ,  he  थी   गिरफ्तार  and imprisoned in Paris  ,   तब  released  in  1794 .
he  became  बदनाम   क्युकी  of The Age  of   कारण  ( 1793–94  )  ,  उसके   किताब  that advocates deism , promotes reason  और   freethinking  , and argues  विरूद्ध  institutionalized  धर्म   in  general  और  Christian doctrine in particular  .
He  भी   लिखा  the pamphlet  कृषिक  Justice ( 1795  )   ,  discussing the origins of  प्रॉपर्टी  , and  introduced   the   अवधारणा  of a guaranteed minimum income .
in  1802 ,  he   लौटे   to  America where he  died  on June 8  ,   1809  .
तभी  six people attended  उसके  funeral  as   he  had been ostracized  लिये   उसके   उपहास  of Christianity  .
Clinical trials are sets  of  tests in medical research and drug  विकास   कि   generate  safety and efficacy  आंकड़ा   (   or   अधिक   specifically  , information  परिचय  adverse drug reactions  और   प्रतिकूल  effects of other treatments  )  for health interventions  (  e.g.  ,  drugs  ,  diagnostics  ,  devices , therapy protocols ) .
They are conducted  तभी  after  संतोषजनक  information has been gathered on  the  quality of  the  non  नैदानिक  safety ,  और  health authority/ethics  कमेटी   स्वीकृति  is  granted  in the  देश  where  स्वीकृति  of the  ड्रग   or  device is sought .
Previously  ,   अनेक  emerging countries  किया   नहीं   आवश्यकता   लोकल   ट्रायल   लिये  product approvals .
Now , though emerging countries still accept data from  u.s./europe   ,  they  भी   आवश्यकता  some  लोकल  trials .
Depending  on  the type  of  product and the  स्टेज  of  इसके  development ,  जांचकर्ताओं   initially  enroll  स्वयंसेवक   and/or   मरीजों   into  small pilot  अध्ययन  ,  और  subsequently  conduct  larger scale studies in patients that often  compare  the  नई  product with  अन्य   already  approved for  the  affliction of interest .
As positive safety  और  efficacy  आंकड़ा  are gathered , the  क्रमांक  of  मरीजों   is   typically   increased  .
Clinical trials can vary in size  ,   और  can involve  a   सिंगल   शोध   एंटिटी   in   एक  country or many such  entities  in  अनेक  countries .
a   पूरा  series of trials  may  incur sizable costs  ,  and  the  burden of paying for  सब   the  necessary  लोगों  and services  is   प्रायः   borne   by  the  प्रायोजक  , which may be a governmental  संगठन  or  a  pharmaceutical ,  जैवप्रौद्योगिकी  or  चिकित्सा   यंत्र  company .
When  the  diversity  of  required support  भूमिकाएँ  exceeds the resources  of   the  sponsor  ,  a  नैदानिक   विचारण   is   प्रबंधित  by an outsourced partner , such as  a   अनुबंध  research organization or a  नैदानिक  trials unit  in  the academic sector .
the   ग्रीन  Bay Packers  हैं  an American football team based in Green Bay ,  विस्कॉन्सिन  .
They are members  of  the North Division  of  the National Football Conference  (  NFC )  in   the  National  फ़ुटबॉल  League (  एनएफएल   )   .
Green Bay  is  the  third-oldest   मताधिकार  in  the  NFL  ,  having been organized and playing in  1919  .
the  Packers  हैं   the   तभी  non-profit , community-owned major league  पेशेवर  sports team in the United States  .
the  Packers  हैं   the   पिछला   vestige  of `` small  कस्बा   टीमों   ''  that  यहूद  once common  in  the NFL during  the  1920s and 1930s  .
संस्थापित  in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence  the   नाम  Lambeau Field on  जिससे  the team  plays  ) and George  व्हिटनी   calhoun  ,  the   ग्रीन   खाड़ी   पैकर्स  can trace  उनके  lineage to other  semi-professional  teams in  ग्रीन  Bay dating  वापस  to  1896  .
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers  competed   as  a semi-professional football  टोली   विरूद्ध   क्लब   इससे   around  Wisconsin  और   the   मिडवेस्ट  .
वे   joined  the  अमरीकी  Professional Football  संघ  ( APFA ) in  1921  , the forerunner  to   कया  is known today as the  नेशनल  Football  लीग  (  एनएफएल  )  .
Although  ग्रीन   खाड़ी  is the last  एनएफएल  `` small town  ''  team  ,  its  लोकल  fan base  और   मीडिया  extends  into   आसपास  Milwaukee  ;   the  team  भी  played selected  घर   खेल   वहीँ   between   1933   और  1994  .
the   ग्रीन   खाड़ी  Packers  have  won 13 league  championships   (  more than any  अन्य  team  in  the NFL )  ,  including nine  एनएफएल   championships   prior  to  the  Super  कटोरी  era and four  सुपर  Bowl  victories  —in  1967   (  Super Bowl  i  ) , 1968 (  सुपर  Bowl II  )  ,  1997  ( Super  कटोरी  XXXI  )  and 2011  (  Super Bowl XLV  )   .
The Packers  have   long-standing  , bitter rivalries with  उनके   nfc   उत्तर  (  formerly  the  nfc  Central )  प्रतिद्वंद्वियों  , the Chicago Bears ,  मिनेसोटा   वाइकिंग्स  and  the  Detroit Lions .
the   bears-packers   फंसने  is one of the oldest rivalries  in   एनएफएल   इतिहास   ,   डेटिंग  back to  1921   .
इथेनॉल  fuel  is  ethanol ( ethyl alcohol  )   ,  the  वही   प्रकार  of alcohol found in alcoholic  पेय   .
It  is   सबसे  often  प्रयुक्त  as a  मोटर  fuel ,  मुख्यतः  as a  biofuel  additive for gasoline  .
संसार  ethanol production for  हस्तांतरण   ईंधन  tripled between 2000  और   2007  from 17  अरब  to  अधिक  than 52  अरब  liters  .
From  2007  to 2008  ,  the share of  इथेनॉल   in  global  गैसोलीन  type  ईंधन  use  increased   इससे  3.7  %   to  5.4 %  .
In  2011   विश्वव्यापी   इथेनॉल  fuel production reached 22.36 billion U.S. liquid  गैलन   (  bg )  (  84.6 billion  liters  )  ,  with the United  राज्य   as  the  शीर्ष  producer  साथ  13.9  bg   (   52.6  billion liters )  ,  accounting  लिये  62.2 % of global  उत्पादन  , followed by Brazil with  5.6   bg   (  21.1 billion liters )  .
इथेनॉल  fuel has  a  `` gasoline  गैलन   equivalency   ``   (  GGE ) value of  ,  which means 1.5 gallons  of  ethanol produce the energy  of  one gallon  of  gasoline .
Ethanol fuel is widely used in Brazil and  in   the   संयुक्त  States , and  साथ   दोनो  countries were responsible for  87.1  %  of   the  world 's ethanol fuel  उत्पादन   in  2011 .
Most  गाड़ियाँ  on the  सड़क   आज   in   the  U.S.  can   चलाएं  on blends  of   up  to  10  % ethanol  ,   और  ethanol represented 10  %   of  the  u.S.   गैसोलीन  fuel supply  निकला  from domestic sources  in  2011  .
Since 1976  the  Brazilian government has  बना  it  अनिवार्य  to blend  इथेनॉल  with gasoline  ,  and since  2007   the   विधिक   मिश्रण   is   around   25  % ethanol  और   75  % gasoline ( E25 ) .
By  दिसम्बर  2011 Brazil had a  बेड़े   of  14.8 million  flex-fuel   ऑटोमोबाइल   और  light  ट्रक  and  1.5   लाख  flex-fuel motorcycles that regularly use neat  इथेनॉल  fuel (  ज्ञात   as   e100   )  .
bioethanol  is a form  of   बेदर्दी   उर्जा  that can be  उत्पादित   इससे  agricultural  feedstocks  .
it  can  be   बना   इससे  very common  फसलों   ऐसे  as  शुगर  cane , potato , manioc and corn .
There  रै   महरूम   considerable  debate about  कैसा  useful bioethanol  होगा  be in replacing gasoline .
चिंताएं   परिचय   इसके  production  और  use relate  to  increased food  कीमतें  due to  the   विशाल  amount of arable  जमीन  required for  फसलों   ,  as well as the  उर्जा   और   प्रदूषण  balance  of  the  पूरे  cycle  of  ethanol production ,  विशेषकर   इससे  corn .
Recent developments  साथ  cellulosic ethanol  उत्पादन  and commercialization may  allay   कुछ  of these  चिंताएं  .
Cellulosic  इथेनॉल  offers  वादा  because cellulose  मछली  , a  प्रमुख  and  सार्वभौमिक   घटक   in  plant cells  दीवारें   ,  can be used  to  produce  इथेनॉल  .
According to  the  International Energy Agency  ,  cellulosic ethanol could  allow   इथेनॉल  fuels to  खेल  a much  बडे  role in the  भविष्य   than  previously  विचार   .
Saab 9-3 SportCombi  biopower  .
the  second  e85   flexifuel  model introduced  by  Saab in  the  Swedish  मार्केट  .
a   प्लैक  commemorating the  स्थान  of  the  Sarajevo assassination and steps of Gavrilo Princip  (   चित्र  taken in 1987  ,   पहले   कदम   यहूद  removed in  1992  and plaque changed  इससे   cyrillic  to  लैटिन  script )
a   प्लैक   commemorating  the  स्थान  of the Sarajevo assassination  (  image taken in  2009  )
on  28 June 1914 ,  archduke   फ्रांज  Ferdinand  of   ऑस्ट्रिया   ,  heir  presumptive  to  the  Austro-Hungarian  सिंहासन   ,   और   उसके  wife  ,  Sophie ,  duchess   of  Hohenberg , were shot  मुर्दे   in  Sarajevo  ,   by  Gavrilo Princip  ,   एक  of  a  group of  छह   बोस्नियाई  Serb  हत्यारे   समन्वित   by  Danilo Ilić  .
The political objective of the assassination  थी   to   ब्रेक  off  austria-hungary  's south-Slav  प्रांतों   so  they could be combined into  a  Greater Serbia  or  a Yugoslavia .
The assassins ' motives were consistent with the movement that  बाद  became known  as  Young Bosnia  .
Serbian  सैन्य   अधिकारियों   stood   पीछे  the  आक्रमण  .
At the top  of  these Serbian military conspirators  थी  Chief  of  Serbian  सैन्य   प्रज्ञा  Dragutin Dimitrijević , his  righthand  man  प्रमुख   vojislav  Tankosić  ,   और   masterspy  Rade  malobabić  .
प्रमुख   tankosić  armed the assassins  साथ   बम  and pistols and trained  उन्हें  .
The  हत्यारे   यहूद   दिए   अभिगम  to the same clandestine tunnel  of  safe-houses and  एजेंटों  that Rade  malobabić   प्रयुक्त  for  the  infiltration  of  weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary  .
The assassins  ,   the   कुंजी  members of  the   clandestine   टनल  , and the key  सर्बियाई  military conspirators  जो   यहूद   स्टिल  alive were arrested , tried , convicted and punished .
those  who were arrested in  बोस्निया  were  आजमाया  in Sarajevo in  अक्तूबर   1914  .
the   अन्य  conspirators were  गिरफ्तार  and  आजमाया  before  a   सर्बियाई   कंगारू  court  on  the  french-controlled  Salonika Front  in  1916–1917  on  unrelated  गलत   आरोप  ; Serbia executed three of the top  सैन्य   षड्यंत्रकारियों  .
much   of  what is known about the assassinations  आता  from these  दो   ट्रायल  and related  रिकॉर्ड  .
Assignment  of  responsibility  लिये   the  bombing  और   हत्याएं  of  28  June  is   अत्यधिक  controversial  क्युकी  the attack led to the outbreak of World  युद्ध  I  एक   माह  later .
Renée Kathleen  zellweger  ( born April 25 , 1969  )  is  an  American  अभिनेत्री  and producer .
Zellweger first gained widespread  ध्यान   लिये  her role in  the  film Jerry  मैग्वायर  ( 1996 )  ,   और  subsequently received  दो  nominations for  the  Academy Award  लिये  Best  अभिनेत्री  for  उसके  roles  as   ब्रिजेट  Jones  in   the  comedy  ब्रिजेट  Jones 's Diary (  2001  )  ,  and  as  Roxie Hart  in  the  musical   शिकागो  ( 2002 )  .
वो  won the  अकादमी   पुरस्कार  for Best Supporting Actress for her  प्रदर्शन   in   the  drama  ठंडा  Mountain  (   2003  ) .
She has won an Academy Award , three Golden Globe Awards ,  तीन  Screen Actors Guild  पुरस्कार  , and a BAFTA  पुरस्कार  ; was named Hasty Pudding  's  Woman of  the   साल  in 2009  ;   और  established herself as one of  the  highest-paid Hollywood  अभिनेत्रियों  as of 2007 .
The ossicles (  भी  called auditory ossicles  )  are  the  three smallest  हड्डियों   in   the  human body ,  the  malleus , the  incus  and  the  stapes  .
वे  are contained  भीतर  the middle ear space and  serve   to  transmit  ध्वनि  from the air to  the   fluid-filled  labyrinth  (  cochlea ) .
the   अनुपस्थिति   of   the   auditory  ossicles  होता  constitute  a  moderate-to-severe  सुनना   घाटा  .
The term  ``   ossicles  ''  वस्तुतः   अर्थात्   ``  tiny  हड्डियों   ''  and commonly refers to  the  auditory ossicles  ,   हालांकि  the  पद   may   refer  to any  छोटी  bone throughout the body .
the  New Covenant (  यहूदी  •  •  — Greek •  •   diatheke  kaine ) is  a  biblical interpretation  originally  derived  इससे   a  phrase in the Book  of  Jeremiah , in the  यहूदी  Scriptures  .
It is often  विचार   of  as an eschatological  मुक्तिदाता   आयु   or   संसार  to come and is  सम्बन्धित   to  the  biblical   अवधारणा  of  the  Kingdom of God .
Generally ,  ईसाइयों   मानना  that  the   नई  Covenant was instituted at  the  Last Supper as part of the Eucharist , which in  the  Gospel  of   जॉन  includes the  नई   commandment  .
There are  अनेक   ईसाई  eschatologies that further  define  the New  वचन  ,  as  an  उदाहरण  an inaugurated eschatology defines  और   describes   the   नई  Covenant  as   an  ongoing  संबंध  between  ईसाई   ईमानवालों   और  God  कि  will be in  पूरा  fruition  बाद  the  दूसरी   coming  of  मसीह   ;   कि  is , it will  नहीं  only be in full fruition in believing hearts , but  in   the  future  बाह्य  world as  खूब  .
The  कनेक्शन   between  the Blood  of   मसीह  and  the  New  वचन  is  देखी   in  most modern English translations of  the   नई  Testament with the saying  :  ``  इस  cup that  is   poured   आउट  for  तुम  is  the   नई   वचन   in  my blood  ''  .
ईसाइयों   मानना   कि  Jesus is the mediator of the New  वचन   ,   और   कि  the Blood of  मसीह   शेड  at his  crucifixion  is  the   जरूरी  blood of  the   वचन  .
As with all covenants  between   परमेश्वर   और  man  वर्णित   in   the  Bible , the New Covenant is  माना  ``  a   बंध   in   रक्त  sovereignly  administered  by  परमेश्वर  . ''
it   रै   महरूम   theorized  that the New  वचन  is the Law of Christ  as   बोला  during his  उपदेश  on the  माउंट  .
The following  सूची  of  लोगों  pardoned  or   granted   दया   by  the President  of  the United  राज्य   दस्तावेज़  the most prominent cases  of  each presidency .
as  granted  by  the Constitution  (  Article  ii  ,  खण्ड  2 , Clause  1   )  , Presidents have the power  to   ग्रान्ट   दया  in one or more of the following  तरीके  :  the  ability  to   ग्रान्ट  a full  pardon  , to  भ्रमण  a sentence  ,  or  to   तोड़ना  a fine  .
U.S. Presidents have  no  power  to   ग्रान्ट  clemency  लिये   अपराधों   prosecuted   अंतर्गत   राज्य  law .
As  to   the   अंतर   between  a  pardon  and a commutation:
a  pardon  is   an   कार्यपालिका   अनुक्रम   vacating  a conviction  .
a  commutation  is  the mitigation of the  वाक्य   of  someone  फिलहाल  serving  a  sentence for a  अपराधों  pursuant to  a  conviction , without  vacating  the conviction itself  .
लगभग  20,000 pardons and  clemencies   यहूद  issued by  u.S.  presidents in  the  20th century alone .
the   रिकॉर्ड  of acts of clemency  यहूद   पब्लिक  until 1934 .
In 1981 the  दफ्तर  of the Pardon  attorney  was  निर्मित  and records  इससे  President  H.  W. Bush  आगे   हैं  now listed  .
इस  list includes pardons  और   commutations   .
Tampa ( ) is a city in the  u.S.  state  of   फ्लोरिडा  .
It  serves  as the county seat for Hillsborough County and is located on the  वेस्ट  coast of Florida ,  on  Tampa Bay near  the   गल्फ  of  मैक्सिको  .
The population of  tampa  in 2011  थी   346,037  .
The  वर्तमान  location  of  Tampa  थी  once inhabited  by   स्वदेशी   peoples   of  the Safety Harbor culture , most notably the Tocobaga and  the   pohoy  ,  जो  lived along the  shores   of  Tampa Bay .
It was briefly  छान  by Spanish explorers  in  the early 16th  सदी  ,  लकिन  there were no  स्थाई   अमरीकी  or European settlements within today 's city  हद  until  बाद  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  had acquired Florida from Spain in 1819 .
In 1824 , the  संयुक्त   राज्य   फौज  established a  frontier  outpost called  फोर्ट  Brooke  at  the mouth  of  the  hillsborough   नदी  , near the  साईट  of  आज   's   tampa   सम्मेलन   बीच  .
The first  civilian   निवासियों  were  pioneers   जो  settled near the  फोर्ट  for  सुरक्षा  from the  आसपास  Seminole population  .
the   कस्बा   grew  slowly until the 1880s  ,  when railroad links , the  डिस्कवरी   of   फास्फेट  ,  और  the arrival  of  the  सिगार  industry jump-started Tampa  's  development and  helped  it to  grow   into  an  महत्वपूर्ण  city by the  जल्दी   1900s  .
आज   ,   tampa  is  a  part of  the   महानगर   क्षेत्रफल  most  commonly   referred   to   as   the   tampa   खाड़ी  Area  .
For U.S. Census purposes  ,   tampa  is part  of   the   tampa-st.  Petersburg-Clearwater , Florida Metropolitan  सांख्यिकीय   क्षेत्रफल  .
The four-county area is  रचित   of   roughly  2.7 million  निवासियों  , making it  the  second  largest  metropolitan statistical  क्षेत्रफल  (  एमएसए  )  in   the   राज्य  , and  the  fourth largest  in   the  Southeastern  संयुक्त   राज्य   ,  behind Miami , Washington  ,  D.C. , and Atlanta .
The Greater  tampa   खाड़ी  area has just over 4 million residents  और   generally  includes  the  Tampa and Sarasota metro  क्षेत्रों   .
the  Tampa Bay  साझेदारी  and U.S. Census  आंकड़ा   दिखाया   an  average annual growth of 2.47 percent ,  or   a   लाभ  of approximately 97,000 residents per year .
between  2000 and 2006  ,   the  Greater  tampa   खाड़ी  Market experienced  a   संयुक्त   विकास   रेट   of  14.8 percent , growing  इससे   3.4   लाख   to  3.9  लाख   और  hitting  the   4   लाख  people mark on April  1  ,  2007  .
A  2012  estimate shows the  tampa   खाड़ी   क्षेत्रफल  population to  have   4,310,524   लोगों  and  a  2017 projection  of  4,536,854 people .
Tampa has a  क्रमांक   of   खेल   टीमों   ,  such as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers of the  नेशनल  Football League , the Tampa  खाड़ी  Lightning of the  नेशनल  Hockey League  ,  and  the  Tampa  खाड़ी  Storm  of  the Arena Football League .
The Tampa Bay Rays  in  Major  लीग   बेसबॉल  and the Tampa Bay  rowdies  of  the  North American  सॉकर   लीग   खेल  their home  खेल  in  neighboring   st.  Petersburg , Florida .
in   2008  , Tampa was ranked  as  the 5th best outdoor  नगर  by Forbes  .
A 2004 survey by the  nyu  newspaper Washington Square News ranked  tampa  as  a  top city for  ``   twenty-somethings  . ''
tampa   is  now ranked as a `` Gamma '' world  नगर   by  Loughborough University .
According to  loughborough   ,   tampa  ranks alongside  अन्य  world  शहरों   ऐसे  as Phoenix , Santo Domingo , and Osaka .
In recent years  tampa  has  देखी   a  notable upsurge in high-market  माँग  from  उपभोक्ता  , signaling more  माल  concentrated in  the  area .
Tampa hosted  the   2012  Republican  नेशनल  Convention .
The  शेवरलेट  Cavalier was a compact automobile produced from  1982  to 2005  by   सामान्य   मोटर्स   .
निर्मित  on the company  's  J platform  ,  the Cavalier produced  the  highest sales in  1984   .
at   &   t   गतिशीलता   llc  branded and referred to as AT  &  T ( formerly Cingular  बेतार  LLC ) , is a  wholly  owned  subsidiary   of  AT &  t   inc.   कि  provides  बेतार  services to 107  लाख  subscribers in  the   संयुक्त  States  ,  including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin  आइलैंड्स  .
at  &  t   गतिशीलता  is  the   दूसरी   largest  wireless telecommunications  प्रदाता   in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   और  Puerto  रीको  ,  पीछे  Verizon  बेतार   ,   जिससे  serves 115.78 million customers as of the fourth quarter  of   2012  .
AT &  t   गतिशीलता   is  headquartered  in   the  Lenox Park area of DeKalb Co.  जॉर्जिया  , just outside Atlanta .
originally  Cingular Wireless  llc  from  2000  to 2007 , a  संयुक्त   venture   between   sbc   संचार  and  bellsouth  , the company  acquired   the   बूढ़ा  AT & T Wireless in 2004 ;  sbc  later acquired  the  original AT &  t  and re-branded  as  `` AT  &  T ''  .
Cingular became wholly owned by  at  & T in December  2006  as  a   परिणाम  of  at  &  t   's  acquisition of BellSouth .
in   जनवरी   2007   ,   cingular  confirmed it  होता   re-brand  itself under the  at  & T  नाम   .
हालांकि  the legal  कॉरपोरेट  name  बदलें   occurred   तत्काल  ,  लिये   दोनो  regulatory  और  brand-awareness  कारण  both  ब्रांड्स   यहूद   प्रयुक्त   in  the company 's signage and advertising  दौरान   a  transition period .
the  transition  concluded   in   लेट  June ,  बस  prior to  the   rollout   of  the Apple iPhone .
on  March  20  ,  2011  ,  at   &   t  Mobility announced its intention to acquire T-Mobile USA from  डॉयचे  Telekom for $  39   अरब  .
If  it  had received government  और  regulatory  स्वीकृति  , AT  &  T  होता   have  had  अधिक   than  130  लाख  subscribers  .
however   ,   the  U.S. Department  of   इंसाफ  ,  the   संघीय  Communications Commission ,  और  AT  &  T Mobility  's  competitors (  ऐसे  as  स्प्रिंट  Nextel  )   opposed   the   मूव  on the grounds  कि  it  होता  reduce competition  in  the cellular  संचार   मार्केट  .
in  December 2011 , in  the  face of both governmental and  फैली  consumer opposition  ,   at   &  T withdrew  उनके  offer to  पूरा   the   विलय  .
Martin Luther King , Jr.  (  January 15 ,  1929   –  April 4  ,  1968  )  was  an  American clergyman , activist  ,  and  नेता  in  the  African-American  सिविल  Rights Movement  .
He  is  best known  लिये   उसके  role in the advancement of  सिविल  rights  using  nonviolent  सिविल  disobedience .
King has  become  a national icon  in   the  history  of  American progressivism .
A  बैपटिस्ट   मंत्री   ,  King became  a   सिविल  rights  activist  early in his  करियर   .
he   led  the  1955   मोंटगोमरी   बस  Boycott and helped found the  दक्षिणी   ईसाई   नेतृत्व   सम्मेलन  (  sclc   )  in 1957 ,  सेवारत  as its  पहला   अध्यक्ष   .
साथ   the   sclc  , King  led  an unsuccessful  संघर्ष   विरूद्ध  segregation  in  Albany , Georgia ,  in  1962 , and organized  nonviolent  protests in Birmingham ,  अलबामा  ,  कि  attracted national  ध्यान   following  television news  कवरेज   of  the brutal police response  .
King  भी   helped   to  organize the  1963  March  on   वॉशिंगटन  , where  he  delivered his ``  i  Have a Dream `` speech  .
वहीँ  ,  he  established his  प्रतिष्ठा  as  एक  of the greatest  orators   in  American  इतिहास  .
he  also  स्थापित  his reputation  as   a   कट्टरपंथी   ,   और  became an object of the  संघीय   ब्यूरो  of  छानबीन  's COINTELPRO  लिये   the  rest of  उसके  life  .
एफबीआई   एजेंटों   investigated   उसे   लिये   संभावित  communist  ties  , recorded  उसके   extramarital  liaisons  और  reported on them to  सरकारी  officials ,  और   on  one occasion  ,   mailed   किंग  a  threatening  anonymous letter  कि  he  interpreted   as  an  attempt  to make  उसे  commit suicide  .
on  October  14   ,   1964   ,  King received the Nobel Peace  पुरस्कार  for combating racial  असमानता  through  nonviolence  .
In 1965  ,  he and the  sclc  helped to organize the  selma  to Montgomery marches  और  the  following  year ,  he  took  the   गति  north to  शिकागो  .
in   the   फाइनल  years of his life ,  किंग  expanded  उसके  focus to include  गरीबी  and the Vietnam War ,  alienating  many of his liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled  ``  Beyond  वियतनाम  '' .
किंग  was  नियोजन  a  नेशनल  occupation of Washington ,  d.C.   ,  called the Poor People 's  अभियान   .
King was  assassinated   on  April 4  ,   1968  , in Memphis ,  टेनेसी   .
His death was  followed  by riots  in  many U.S. cities .
दोषारोपण  that  जेम्स  Earl Ray  ,  the man convicted  of  killing King , had been framed or  acted  in concert  साथ   सरकारी   एजेंटों   persisted  for decades after the shooting  ,   और  the jury of  a  1999 civil trial found  loyd   jowers  to be complicit in  a  conspiracy  विरूद्ध  King .
King was  awarded  the  अध्यक्षीय   पदक  of Freedom and the Congressional Gold Medal posthumously .
Martin Luther  किंग  , Jr.  दिन  was  स्थापित  as a  u.S.  federal  अवकाश   in  1986  .
Hundreds  of   गलियों  in  the   u.S.  have been  renamed  in his  सम्मान  .
A memorial statue on  the  National  मॉल  was opened to the public  in  2011  .
The  बाघ  ( Panthera tigris ) is the largest  बिल्ली   प्रजाति   ,   reaching   a  total  देह  length  of  up to and  weighing  up to .
it  is the third largest  जमीन  carnivore ( behind only the  ध्रुवीय  bear  और  the brown bear )  .
इसके  most  recognizable   विशेषता  is  a   पैटर्न   of   अंधेरा   लंबवत  stripes on reddish-orange fur with a  हल्का  underside .
it  has exceptionally  stout   दांत  ,  और  the canines  हैं   the   longest   among  living  felids   साथ   a  crown  ऊँचाई  of as much  as  or  भी  .
in  zoos ,  टाइगर्स  have  जिया  for  20   to  26 years ,  जिससे  also seems to  be  their  आयु   in   the  wild .
वे  are  territorial  and  generally  solitary  लकिन  social animals  ,   प्रायः   requiring   विशाल  contiguous areas of  आवास  that support their  शिकार  requirements  .
इस  ,  coupled  with the fact  कि  they are  स्वदेशी  to some of  the  more densely populated places on Earth , has caused  significant  conflicts with  इंसानो  .
Tigers once  ranged  widely across Asia ,  इससे  Turkey  in  the west  to  the eastern coast of  रूस  .
over   the   पास्ट  100  सालो  ,  वे   have   खोया   93  % of  उनके  historic  दायरा  , and  have  been  extirpated  from southwest  और  central Asia ,  इससे   the   आइलैंड्स   of  Java  और   bali  , and  इससे  large  क्षेत्रों   of  Southeast and Eastern  एशिया  .
आज   ,  they range from the Siberian taiga to  खोलें   grasslands  and  तीव्र   mangrove   swamps  .
the   बाकी  six  बाघ   subspecies  have been classified as endangered  by   आईयूसीएन  .
The  वैश्विक  population  in  the wild  is   अनुमानित   to   क्रमांक   between  3,062  और  3,948 individuals , down from  around   100,000   at   the  start of the 20th century , with  सबसे   बाकी   populations  occurring in small  pockets  isolated from  प्रत्येक  other .
प्रमुख  reasons  लिये   जनसांख्यिकी   मनाही   शामिल  habitat  विनाश   ,  habitat  fragmentation   और  poaching  .
the  extent  of   क्षेत्रफल  occupied by tigers is  अनुमानित  at less  than   ,  a 41 %  मनाही  from the area estimated in  the   mid-1990s   .
Tigers are  among  the most recognisable and popular of the  संसार  's  charismatic  megafauna  .
They  have  featured prominently  in  ancient mythology and  लोकगीत  , and continue to be depicted  in   आधुनिक   films   और   साहित्य  .
Tigers appear  on  many flags , coats  of  arms ,  और  as  mascots  for sporting  टीमों  .
the   बंगाल  tiger is  the  national  एनिमल  of both India and Bangladesh .
the   सरलीकृत  internal  ढांचा  of a  हरितलवक
अवलोकन  of the Calvin  साईकिल   और   कार्बन  fixation
the   light-independent   प्रतिक्रियाएँ  of  photosynthesis  are chemical reactions  कि  convert carbon  डाइऑक्साइड  and other compounds into  ग्लूकोज  .
ये   प्रतिक्रियाएँ  occur in  the  stroma , the fluid-filled  क्षेत्रफल   of   a  chloroplast outside  of  the thylakoid membranes  .
These  प्रतिक्रियाएँ   लो   the  light-dependent reactions and perform further chemical  प्रक्रियाओं  on them  .
There  हैं  three phases to  the   light-independent  reactions , collectively  पुकारा  the Calvin  साईकिल  : carbon  fixation   ,   कटौती  reactions  ,  and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate  (   rubp  )  regeneration   .
Despite its name  ,   इस   प्रक्रम  occurs only  जब   लाइट   is  available  .
Plants do not carry  आउट  the  calvin  cycle by  रात्रि  .
They  ,  instead ,  रिलीज  sucrose into the  फ्लोएम   इससे  their  मंड   reserves  .
This process happens  जब  light is available independent  of   the  kind of  photosynthesis   (   c3  carbon fixation , C4  कार्बन  fixation ,  और  Crassulacean Acid  चयापचय  ) ;  कैम  plants store malic  एसिड  in their vacuoles  प्रत्येक  night  और  release it  by  day  in  order  to  make this process  कार्य  .
a   लिनेन  handkerchief with pulled thread embroidery around  the   किनारे
Linen  cloth   बरामद  from Qumran  गुफा  1  निकट   the  Dead  समुद्र  .
Linen  (  ) is  a  textile  बना  from  the  fibers of the flax plant , Linum usitatissimum  .
लिनेन   is  labor-intensive to  manufacture   ,  but when it is made into  garments  ,  it   is   valued  for its  असाधारण  coolness  और   ताजगी   in  hot weather .
The word `` linen  ''   is  of West Germanic origin  और   cognates   साथ  the Latin name for the flax plant linum  ,  and the earlier Greek λινόν ( linon ) .
इस   शब्द   इतिहास   रै  given rise  to   a  number  of   अन्य   शर्तें  in English ,  the   सबसे   notable  of  जिससे   is  the English  शब्द  line , derived from the use of  a  linen  (   flax  ) thread to determine a  सीधा   लकीर   .
वस्त्र   in   a   लिनेन   बुनते   बनावट   ,   भी  when  बना  of  कपास  ,  गांजा   और   अन्य   non-flax  fibers are also loosely  referred  to as `` linen ''  .
ऐसे   fabrics   generally  have their  अपना  specific names other than linen ; for example  ,   ठीक  cotton  धागे  in  a  linen-style  बुनते  is called  madapolam  .
the  collective term `` linens `` is still  प्रायः   प्रयुक्त  generically  to   describe  a class  of  woven and  भी   knitted   bed  , bath , table and  रसोईघर  textiles  .
The name linens  is  retained because traditionally , linen  थी   प्रयुक्त  for many of these items .
In the past , the  शब्द   ``  linens ''  थी   भी   प्रयुक्त   to   औसत  lightweight undergarments such  as  shirts , chemises , waistshirts ,  lingerie  (  a  word also  cognate  with  लिनेन  ) , and  detachable   कमीज़  collars  और  cuffs  ,  which  यहूद   historically  made  लगभग   exclusively  out of linen  .
The  अंदर   cloth  layer of  ठीक   कम्पोजिट   कपडे  garments (  as   लिये  example  jackets  )  थी  traditionally made  of   लिनेन   ,  and this is  the  origin  of  the  शब्द  lining .
Linen textiles  appear  to  be   कुछ  of the oldest in the world :  उनके  history goes back many thousands of  सालो  .
Fragments of straw ,  बीज  ,  मछली   ,   yarns  ,  और  various types of fabrics  जिससे  date  वापस  to about 8000 BC  have  been  मिला  in Swiss lake dwellings .
Dyed flax fibers  मिला  in a  प्रागैतिहासिक  cave in  जॉर्जिया   सुझाएँ  the use  of  woven linen fabrics from  जंगली  flax may  तिथि   वापस  even  पहले  to  36,000  BP .
लिनेन  was sometimes used as currency in ancient Egypt  .
Egyptian mummies were wrapped  in  linen because  it  was seen as  a   प्रतीक   of  light  और   पवित्रता   ,   और   as   a  display of  माल  .
Some of  ये  fabrics ,  woven  from hand spun yarns , were very fine for their day , but are coarse compared to modern linen .
आज   ,   लिनेन  is usually an expensive textile ,  और  is  उत्पादित  in relatively small  quantities  .
It  रै  a long ``  स्टेपल   ''  ( individual fiber  लंबाई   )  relative to cotton  और  other natural  मछली   .
Many products  हैं  made  of  linen : aprons ,  बैग  , towels  (  swimmers ,  नहाना  ,  बीच  ,  देह   और   धो  towels  )  , napkins ,  bed  linens  ,  linen  चौके   ,  runners  ,  chair covers ,  और  men 's &  महिलाओं  's wear .
the  FIFA World  कप   ,   प्रायः  simply  the   संसार   कप   ,  is  an   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  association football  प्रतियोगिता  contested  by  the senior  मेन  's national teams of the members of  fédération  Internationale de Football  संघ   (  FIFA  )   ,  the  खेल   's  global  शासी  body .
the  championship  रै   महरूम   awarded  every four  सालो  since  the   inaugural  tournament in  1930  , except  in  1942 and 1946 when it was  नहीं  held  क्युकी   of  the Second World War .
The  वर्तमान   champions  are Spain , who won the  2010   टूर्नामेंट  .
the   वर्तमान  format  of  the  टूर्नामेंट  involves  32   टीमों   स्पर्धा   लिये   the  title at  venues  within  the  host  स्वदेश  (  s  ) over a period  of   परिचय  a month ;  इस  phase  is  often  पुकारा  the World  कप   फाइनल  .
A qualification phase , which  फिलहाल   takes  place  over  the preceding  तीन  years , is used  to  determine which  टीमों  qualify  लिये   the   टूर्नामेंट  together  साथ   the  host  स्वदेश   (   s   )  .
The 19 World  कप  tournaments have  महरूम  won by eight different  नेशनल  teams  .
ब्राज़ील  have  जीती   पाँच  times  ,   और  they are the only  टोली  to  have  played  in  every  टूर्नामेंट  .
The other  संसार  Cup winners are  इटली   ,   साथ  four  शीर्षक  ; Germany , with three titles ;  अर्जेंटीना  and inaugural winners Uruguay , with  दो  titles each ; and England  ,   फ़्रांस  , and  स्पेन   ,  with  एक  title  प्रत्येक  .
The World  कप  is  the   संसार  's most widely  viewed   sporting  event  ;   an  estimated  715.1  million people watched the  फाइनल  match  of  the 2006 FIFA  संसार   कप   आयोजित   in  Germany .
the  next  तीन  World Cups  होगा  be hosted by Brazil  in  2014 ,  रूस  in 2018 , and Qatar in 2022 .
The is an expansion device for the Wii Remote video game controller for  the   वी  that allows it to more  accurately  capture complex  गति  .
According to Nintendo ,  the   सेंसर  in the  यंत्र   पूरक  the  accelerometer  and Sensor Bar  सामर्थ्य   of  the  वी  Remote  to  enable actions  to   be   rendered   identically  on the  स्क्रीन   in  real time  .
The Wii  's  successor console  ,   the  Wii  u  , supports  the   वी  MotionPlus and its peripherals in games where  उपयोग  of  इसके   touchscreen-built-in   प्राथमिक   नियंत्रक  is  नहीं   जरुरी  .
Majulah  singapura   (  Onward  सिंगापुर  ) is the national  गान  of Singapore  .
Composed  by   zubir   कहा   in   1958  as a theme  सोंग  for  आधिकारिक  functions  of   the   नगर  Council of  सिंगापुर   ,  the song was selected in 1959  as   the  island 's anthem when  it   attained  self-government  .
Upon full independence in 1965 , Majulah Singapura was  formally  adopted  as  Singapore 's  नेशनल  anthem .
By law the anthem  may  only be sung with its original Malay lyrics  ,   हालांकि  there exist  प्राधिकृत   अनुवाद  of the  गीत   of  the anthem  in  Singapore 's  तीन   अन्य  official languages  :   अंग्रेज़ी  , Mandarin and  तमिल  .
originally  composed in  the   कुंजी   of  G major  ,  in 2001 the  नेशनल   गान  was officially relaunched in  the  lower  कुंजी   of  F  प्रमुख  as  इस  was said to  allow  for a ``  grander  and more  प्रेरणादायी   व्यवस्था  '' .
The  नेशनल   गान   is   regularly   performed  or sung  in  schools and  हथियारबंद  forces  शिविरों   at   ceremonies  held at  the   शुरूआत  and/or the end of each day  ,  during  जिससे  the  नेशनल  flag  is  also  उठाया  and lowered and  the   नेशनल  pledge  is  taken  .
singaporeans   हैं  especially encouraged to  गाओ  the national  गान  on occasions  of   नेशनल   जश्न  or national  significance  such as at the  नेशनल  Day  परेड  , at National Day observance  ceremonies  conducted by educational institutions  और   सरकारी  departments ,  और  at sporting  कार्यक्रम   at  which Singapore teams are participating  .
an   expedition   's  shipwrights building a brigantine , 1541  .
shipbuilding  is the  निर्माण  of ships  और  floating vessels .
It  सामान्यतः   takes  place  in   a  specialized facility  ज्ञात   as   a   डॉकयार्ड   .
shipbuilders  ,  भी  called  shipwrights   ,  follow a specialized  occupation  that traces its roots to before recorded  इतिहास   .
shipbuilding  and ship repairs  ,  both commercial and  सैन्य   ,  are  referred  to as  ``   नवल  engineering '' .
The construction of boats is a similar  कार्यकलाप  called boat building  .
the   dismantling  of ships  is  called ship  तोड़कर  .
Wakonda  is   a  town in  मिट्टी   काउंटी   ,  South  डकोटा   ,  United States  .
the   जनसांख्यिकी  was 321 at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
The  following   is   a  list of the  सबसे   populous  incorporated  स्थान  of  the  United States of America .
as  defined by the  संयुक्त   राज्य  Census  ब्यूरो  , an ``  incorporated   प्लेस   ``   शामिल  a variety  of  designations ,  सहित  city ,  कस्बा  ,  गाँव  , borough  ,  and municipality  .
A few exceptional Census Designated Places  (  CDPs ) are also included in  the   जनसांख्यिकी   ब्यूरो  's listing  of  incorporated places .
संचित  city-counties  represent  a  पृथक   प्रकार  of  सरकारी  that  शामिल  the  संपूर्ण  population  of  a county ,  or  county equivalent .
Some  संचित   city-counties   ,  however  ,  include multiple incorporated  स्थान  .
This  सूची  presents only that portion  (  or ``  संतुलन  '' ) of such consolidated city-counties that are not  a  part  of   another  incorporated place .
Note  कि   इस   सूची   refers   तभी  to  the  population of individual  municipalities  within their defined  हद   ,  which does  नहीं  include other municipalities  or   unincorporated  suburban  क्षेत्रों  within urban  agglomerations  .
A different  रैंकिंग  is evident when  considering  U.S.  महानगर  area  populations  .
alt=Larger flashcart , shown with  छोटी  card  और  U.S. quarter  लिये  size
Nintendo DS  भंडार   डिवाइस  are devices  प्रयुक्त  to  स्टोर  a licensed developer  's   work-in-progress  images , homebrew video  खेल   और  downloaded commercial games ( since the Nintendo  ds  is not  बेची   साथ   a   rewritable  storage  मीडियम  )  .
licensed   डेवलपर  , however  ,  can use a  ब्लू  Intelligent Systems Nitro Emulator  बक्सा  to  फ्लैश  cards  .
These devices are also known as  ``   flashcarts   ''  or ``  flashcards  ''  .
There  हैं  two  प्रमुख  classes of  flashcarts  : older devices  जिससे  fit  in  Slot-2  (  the Game Boy  अग्रिम   खेल   पाक  slot  )   और   नए  devices that  अनुरूप  in Slot-1 (  the  DS Game  कार्ड   स्लॉट   )  .
Slot-2 ( or  first-generation  )  डिवाइस   have  been  historically  cheaper due  to   economies  of  स्केल   (   inherited   इससे  their  उपयोग   साथ   खेल  Boy  अग्रिम  ) ,  लकिन  require  a  booting  औजार  in Slot-1  in   अनुक्रम  to use the touch screen  और  other DS features .
Second-generation devices (  those   जिससे  only use Slot-1 ) do not  कार्य   साथ  GBA homebrew  ,   लकिन   became  less  महंगी   और   easier  to  उपयोग   ,  rivaling many Slot-2 devices in price .
First-generation devices include GBA flash  कारतूस   ,   gbamp  CF  ,   supercard  ,  और  M3 .
Second-generation  डिवाइस  include  r4   क्रान्ति  ,  cyclods  ,  g6   रियल  and DS-X .
The storage device either  contains   फ्लैश   मेमोरी  or a slot  लिये  a memory  कार्ड  to store homebrew  .
भंडार  devices  साथ  a memory-card slot usually  have  more storage  क्षमता  than  flash-memory   डिवाइस   .
हालांकि  flash-memory  क्षमता  is  प्रायः  measured in megabits ( Mb )  ,  memory-card  क्षमता  is usually  measured  in  मेगाबाइट  ( MB ) ( where 8 Mb is  1  MB )  .
Storage-device  ब्रांड्स  differ in their  support  for homebrew ; DS  और   खेल   लड़के   अग्रिम   roms  ;  खास  features ( such  as   क्षमता  to  खेल  media  फाइलें  ) ; physical  आकार   और  cost .
सख्ती  speaking  ,   a  storage device  is   नहीं  necessary  लिये   ds  with FlashMe  संस्थापित   क्युकी  homebrew  can  be  भेजा  to  the   ds   using  WMB .
however   ,  this is not  an  easily-portable  विधि  because the DS  needs  to be within range of a suitable Wi-Fi card .
हैं   अमरीकी   लोगों  of Japanese heritage .
जापानी  Americans have  historically  been among the three largest Asian American communities  ,  but in recent decades  ,  it has  become  the  छठे   largest   समूह  at  roughly  1,304,286 ,  सहित  those of mixed-race or  mixed-ethnicity  .
in   the  2010  जनसांख्यिकी  ,  the   largest  Japanese American  समुदायों  were found  in  California  साथ  272,528 ,  हवाई  with 185,502 ,  नई   यॉर्क  with  37,780   ,  Washington with 35,008 , and Illinois with 17,542 .
Southern California  रै  the largest Japanese-American  जनसांख्यिकी   in  North  अमेरिका   .
200px
This is a  व्यापक  listing which highlights significant  उपलब्धियाँ   और   माइलस्टोन   आधारित   upon  Billboard magazine  's  singles  चार्ट  , most notably the  बिलबोर्ड   hot   100   .
This list spans from  the  issue dated  जनवरी   1   ,  1955  to   उपस्थित   .
The  बिलबोर्ड   hot   100  began with the issue dated August 4 , 1958  ,   और   is  currently  the   मानक  popular  म्यूज़िक   चार्ट  in the United States  .
Prior  to  the creation  of  the  hot  100 , Billboard published four singles charts  :   ``  Best Sellers  in   स्टोर्स  '' , ``  सबसे  Played  by   jockeys  '' ,  ``  Most Played in  jukeboxes  ''  और  ``  the  Top 100  ''  .
These charts , which  ranged   इससे   20  to 100 slots ,  यहूद  phased  आउट  at  अलग   टाइम्स   between   1957   और  1958  .
हालांकि  technically  नहीं  part of  the  Hot  100  chart history , their data is included  लिये   कम्प्यूटेशनल  purposes ,  और   to  avoid unenlightening or misleading  characterizations   .
All  वस्तुएं   सूचीबद्ध  below  हैं  from the Hot 100 era  ,  unless otherwise noted ( pre-Hot  100  charts ) .
V  is  an American  विज्ञान   fiction   टेलीविज़न   श्रेणी   कि   भागा  for  दो  seasons on  एबीसी  , from November 3 ,  2009   to  March 15 , 2011 .
A remake of the 1983 miniseries created  by   केनेथ   जॉनसन   ,  the new series chronicles  the  arrival on  धरती   of  a technologically  उन्नत   एलियन   प्रजाति  which  ostensibly   आता   in   सलाम  ,  लकिन  actually has sinister  motives  .
v  stars Morena  baccarin   ,   lourdes  Benedicto  ,  Morris Chestnut  ,   जोएल  Gretsch  ,  Logan Huffman , Charles Mesure , Elizabeth Mitchell ,  लौरा  Vandervoort and Scott  भेड़िया   ,  and was executive produced  by  Scott  rosenbaum  , Yves Simoneau ,  स्कॉट   पीटर्स   ,  and Jace Hall .
The  श्रेणी  was  उत्पादित   by   the  Scott Peters  कम्पनी  , HDFilms and Warner Bros.  टेलीविज़न  .
Geocaching is an  बाहरी  recreational activity , in which  the  participants  उपयोग   a  Global Positioning  प्रणाली   (   gps   )   receiver   or  mobile  यंत्र  and  अन्य  navigational  तकनीकों  to  छुपा  and seek containers , called `` geocaches  ''   or   ``   caches   ''  , anywhere  in   the   संसार   .
a   ठेठ   संचय  is  a  small  waterproof  container  containing  a logbook where  the   geocacher  enters the  तिथि  they found  it  and  लक्षण  it with their established code  नाम  .
बाद  signing  into  the log ,  the  cache must  be  placed back exactly  जहाँ   the   व्यक्ति   मिला  it .
Larger containers such  as   प्लास्टिक  storage containers ( Tupperware  or  similar ) or  ammunition  boxes  can  also contain items  लिये  trading ,  प्रायः   खिलौने   or   trinkets   of  little value .
Geocaching  साझा   अनेक  aspects with benchmarking , trigpointing , orienteering ,  treasure-hunting   ,  letterboxing  ,  and waymarking .
Boogie  bas   प्रोडक्शन्स  was a hip hop group  कि   थी   originally   रचित  of  krs-one  ,  d-nice  , and DJ Scott La Rock .
DJ Scott  la  Rock was murdered on August 27  ,  1987  ,  months  बाद   the  release of  bdp   's  debut album  ,  Criminal  minded  .
the  name of the group , Boogie  bas   ,   गर्भाशयी  from a nickname for the South  bronx  section of The Bronx  ,  one  of   the   पाँच  boroughs of New York City .
The  समूह   pioneered  the  संलयन  of  डांसहॉल   रेगी  and  हिप  hop  म्यूज़िक   और   उनके  debut LP  दण्ड   minded   contained  frank descriptions of  जीवन   in  the  दक्षिण   bronx  of the late 1980s thus setting  the  stage  लिये   कया   होता  eventually become gangsta rap .
a  municipal  बंध   is  a  बंध   जारी  by  a  local  सरकारी  ,  or  their agencies .
संभावित  issuers of  नगरपालिका   bonds  include  राज्य  ,  शहरों   ,  counties  ,   redevelopment  agencies , special-purpose  जिले  , school districts , public utility  जिले   ,   सरेआम  owned airports and seaports , and  कोई   अन्य  governmental entity  (   or  group  of  governments ) at  or  below  the  state level  .
नगरपालिका   bonds   may   be   सामान्य   दायित्वों  of the issuer  or   secured  by  निर्दिष्ट  revenues  .
In  the  United States  ,   ब्याज  income  प्राप्त  by  धारकों  of municipal bonds is often  exempt  from the  संघीय   आय  tax and from the income tax of  the  state in  जिससे  they are issued , although  नगरपालिका   bonds  issued for certain  उद्देश्य  may not be  कर  exempt .
नापसंद   नई  issue  स्टॉक्स  that are brought  to   मार्केट  with price restrictions until the  सौदे  is  बेची  , municipal bonds  हैं   फ़्री  to trade at any time once  वे   हैं  purchased by  the  investor .
Professional traders regularly  व्यापार  and retrade the same bonds several times a week .
``   gim   me   कुछ   lovin  '  ''  is a  सोंग  written by  स्टीव  Winwood  ,  Spencer  डेविस  and  muff   winwood  ,  और   originally   performed  by The  स्पेंसर   डेविस  Group .
The  मौलिक  riff  of   the  song was borrowed from  the   होमर  Banks song  ``  ( Ai n't  कि   )   a   लॉट  of Love '' , written  by   बैंको  and Willie Dean  ``  Deanie ''  पार्कर  .
``  gim  me Some  lovin  ' '' was a UK # 2  in   the  Autumn of 1966  और  a  us  # 7  .
The  सोंग  is ranked #  247  on the Rolling  स्टोन   पत्रिका  's list of The 500 Greatest Songs  of   सब  Time  .
the  version issued in the  uk  ( and probably most  of  Europe ) is different from  कि   जारी   in  the US on the  संयुक्त  Artists label  ,   होने  slower  ,  and lacking  the  backing vocals  और   ``  live sounding  ''   प्रदर्शन   मिला  on the US  सिंगल  .
( The US version has more  प्रायः  been used on reissue CDs , even  those   coming   इससे  Europe  .   )
the   सिंगल  features the sound of the Hammond B-3  अंग  .
the   अंतरजाल  Movie Database (  आईएमडीबी   )  is  an   ऑनलाइन  database  of  information related to films ,  टेलीविज़न   कार्यक्रम  ,  और   वीडियो  games .
इस   शामिल  actors  ,   उत्पादन  crew personnel ,  और  fictional  वर्ण  featured  in   ये  three visual entertainment media  .
It  is  one  of  the  सबसे  popular  ऑनलाइन  entertainment destinations  ,  with  over  100  लाख  unique  उपयोक्ता   प्रत्येक   माह   और  a  ठोस   और   rapidly   growing  mobile presence  .
IMDb  थी  launched on October  17   ,  1990 ,  और  in  1998   थी  acquired by  amazon.com  .
as  of April  27  ,  2013  ,  आईएमडीबी  had  2,503,783  titles ( includes episodes  )  and  5,192,493  personalities in its database  ,  as  खूब   as   43  million  पंजीकृत  users .
The website  रै   an   एलेक्सा  rank  of  48  .
Fibre  चैनल  Host  बस  Adapter  (  64-bit PCI-X  कार्ड  )
SCSI  मेजबान   बस  Adapter  (  16-bit  isa  card  )
In computer hardware  ,   a  host controller  ,  host adapter  ,  or  मेजबान  bus adapter  (  HBA )  connects  a  मेजबान  system  (  the computer ) to other  संजाल   और   भंडार  devices .
The terms  हैं  primarily used to  refer  to  डिवाइस   लिये  connecting SCSI , Fibre  चैनल  and eSATA devices .
however  ,  डिवाइस  for connecting to  आईडीई  , Ethernet  ,   firewire  , USB and other systems  may  also be called  मेजबान  adapters .
Recently  ,  the advent of  iscsi  and  fibre   चैनल   over  Ethernet has brought about  ईथरनेट  HBAs  ,  which are  अलग   इससे   ईथरनेट  NICs in that they  शामिल  TCP Offload  इंजन   .
There  हैं   भी  converged  hbas   कि  support  दोनो   ईथरनेट  and Fibre Channel called Converged Network Adapters (  cnas  ) .
cashmere  Scarves
आधुनिक  men  's   cashmere  sweaters  लिये   बिक्री  .
cashmere  wool  ,   प्रायः  simply known as cashmere , is a  रेशा   प्राप्त  from Cashmere  बकरियों  and other  प्रकार  of goat  .
The word  cashmere  derives  इससे   an  old spelling  of  Kashmir .
cashmere   is  fine  in   बनावट  ,  दमदार  ,  लाइट   ,   और   नरम  .
garments  made from  it   provide  excellent insulation .
In the United  राज्य  ,  अंतर्गत  the U.S . Wool Products Labeling Act of  1939  , as amended ,  (  15 Uction 68b ( a )  (  6 ) )  ,  states that  a  wool or  वस्त्र  product may not  be  labeled  as   containing  cashmere unless:
ऐसे   ऊन   उत्पाद  is the  ठीक   (   dehaired   )   undercoat  fibers produced  by  a cashmere goat  (  Capra hircus laniger  )  ;
the average diameter of the fiber  of   ऐसे   ऊन   उत्पाद  does not exceed  19   माइक्रोन   ;   और
ऐसे   ऊन  product does not  contain  more than 3 percent ( by weight  )  of cashmere fibers with average  diameters  that  exceed   30  microns  .
the  average fiber  व्यास  may  be   विषय  to  a  coefficient  of   विभिन्नता  around the mean  कि  shall not exceed  24  percent .
जेनिफर  Convertibles  inc.  is  the  owner  और  licensor  of  sofabed  और  leather  specialty  retail stores in the  संयुक्त  States ,  साथ  stores  स्तिथ   throughout  the Eastern seaboard  ,  in  the  Midwest ,  on  the  वेस्ट  Coast and in the  दक्षिणपश्चिम  .
The company was  संस्थापित  in  1975  and is based in  woodbury  , New York .
on  July 19 , 2010 ,  the   कम्पनी   घोषित  that it  था  filed  लिये  bankruptcy as  a   consequence  of `` substantial losses  ''  .
According to  फर्नीचर  Today the company was  क्रमांक   48  among furniture retailers with  us   $   114  million in  बिक्री   लिये   the  year ending August  29  , 2009 .
It subsequently emerged from Chapter  11  under  the  control of its  प्रमुख   प्रदायक   ,  the  haining  Mengnu Group .
अंडा  roll  is  a term used for many  अलग  foods  around  the world  .
2__egg_roll  __  किस्में  of egg rolls  हैं   मिला  in  मेनलैंड   चीन   ,   अनेक  Chinese-speaking regions of Asia , and Chinese  अप्रवासी  communities  around  the world .
Egg rolls  as  referred to in China .
in  Guangdong and Hong  काँग   ,  egg roll  प्रायः  refers to  बिस्किट   फेंकें  .
इस  is a type of  बिस्किट  .
The  संघटक   शामिल  egg ,  आटा  and sugar  .
Egg  फेंकें  also  is   a   डिश  in Canton  और  Hong  काँग  ,  इस  is usually made with  सब्ज़ी  .
Within China  अंडा   रोल्स  are eaten  predominantly  in the southeast  और   हैं  not  as  commonly consumed in the  उत्तर  and western parts of China  .
In American  चाइनीज  cuisine , an egg roll is a savory dish typically  परोसा   as  an  क्षुधावर्धक   .
It  is   प्रायः   भरवां  with chicken  ,  pork  or  shrimp , cabbage , carrots , tomatoes  ,  bean  sprouts  and  अन्य  vegetables , and then deep fried .
This variety  of   the  egg  फेंकें  is  बहुत  common  और   लोकप्रिय  ,  आरपार  even regional  किस्में  of American Chinese food  ,   और  is often included as  भाग  of  a   ``  combination  platter  ''  .
In  मॉन्ट्रियल   ,  Canada , open-ended  eggrolls  are a Jewish-Chinese fusion dish .
They can be either  कोषेर   certified  or  merely  kosher  स्टाइल  .
Pain  और  suffering is the legal  पद  for  the   शारीरिक  and emotional  तनाव  caused  इससे  an injury ( see also  पीड़ा  and suffering ) .
Some  क्षतिपूर्ति  that might be under  इस  category  होता  be : aches , temporary and  स्थाई   सीमाएं  on  कार्यकलाप   ,  potential  shortening  of  जीवन  ,  अवसाद  or scarring .
When filing a lawsuit as a  परिणाम  of an  चोट  , it  is   आम  for someone  to  seek money  दोनो  in  मुआवजे   लिये  actual money that is  खोया  and for  the   पीड़ा   और  stress  संबद्ध  with virtually  कोई   चोट  .
In a suit ,  पीड़ा  and suffering is part  of  the ``  सामान्य  damages ''  खण्ड   of  the  claimant  's  अर्जी   ,  or , alternatively ,  it  is an element  of  ``  compensatory  '' non-economic damages  कि  allows  रिकवरी  for  the  mental anguish  and/or  physical  पीड़ा   endured  by the  claimant   as  a  परिणाम  of injury  लिये  which  the  plaintiff seeks redress  .
अलावा  from money damages  awarded  in trial  ,   धन   क्षतिपूर्ति   हैं   भी   दिए  informally outside the judicial system in  mediations   ,   मध्यस्थता  ( both of  जिससे   may  be court  annexed  or  गैर  litigated  दावा  ) as well as in routine insurance settlements .
Individual claimants or those represented  by  lawyers often present demands to insurers to  settle   लिये   धन   .
These demand  लिये   bodily   चोट   मुआवजे   monies  often  नियत  out damages that  हैं   similarly  used in  the   अदालत   litigated  pleadings  .
मांगे  are usually written summaries  of   a   claimant  's medical  परवाह  and  the  facts which resulted in the injury .
Sample of  a  Medallion signature guarantee stampIn
the  United  राज्य  and Canada  ,  a  medallion  signature guarantee is  a   खास  signature guarantee for  the  transfer of securities  .
It is a  गारंटी   by  the transferring financial institution that the signature is genuine and the  वित्तीय  institution accepts liability  लिये  any  जालसाजी  .
हस्ताक्षर   guarantees   protect  shareholders by preventing unauthorized transfers and possible  निवेशकों  losses .
They also  सीमा   the  liability of the transfer  एजेंट   जो  accepts  the  certificates .
अलग  institutions have different policies as  to  what type  of   पहचान  they require to provide the guarantee and whether they  चार्ज   a   शुल्क  for  ऐसे   सेवा  (  प्रायः   नाममात्र  if  कोई  ) .
सबसे  institutions  होगा  not  गारंटी  a signature  of   किसी  who  रै   नहीं   already  been their customer .
A medallion signature guarantee is not  the  same  as  an  acknowledgment  by  a  notary  पब्लिक  , in the  भाव  that a ``  हस्ताक्षर   गारंटी  ''  is  a certification by  the  institution that the  हस्ताक्षर   is   प्रामाणिक   ,   और  an acknowledgment is  a   प्रमाणन   by   a  notary public  attesting  that the signer signed  a  document  voluntarily   .
Some banks may no longer provide this  सेवा  ,  however   ,  many still do as  खूब  as other  वित्तीय   संस्थानों   ऐसे   as  a Savings  और   लोन  and Credit Unions .
At their sole discretion  ,  these  संस्थानों  may still decline  to   provide   the  Medallion Signature Guarantees .
When  us  citizens are  विदेश  ,  कुछ  financial  संस्थानों   may   accept   संयुक्त  States  दूतावास   seals  , in place of  the  Medallion Signature  गारंटी  Stamp  .
Pacific  इलेक्ट्रिक   रेल  streetcars  stacked  at  a   junkyard   on  Terminal Island  ,   लॉस   एंजिल्स  County  ,  California ,  कूच   1956
the  General  मोटर्स  streetcar conspiracy  (  also known  as   the   ग्रेट  American streetcar scandal  )   refers   to  allegations and  convictions  in relation  to  a program  by  General Motors (  gm  ) and  अन्य  companies  जो  purchased and  तब   dismantled  streetcar and electric train  प्रणालियों   in  many  अमरीकी   शहरों  .
between  1936 and 1950 , National  नगर   लाइनों   और   प्रशांत  City Lines —with  निवेश  from GM ,  firestone  Tire ,  मानक  Oil of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ,  Phillips  पेट्रोलियम   ,   mack   ट्रक  , and the Federal Engineering Corporation—bought over  100   इलेक्ट्रिक  surface-traction systems in 45 cities  सहित  Baltimore  ,   न्यूर्क  , Los Angeles ,  नई  York  नगर  , Oakland and San  डिएगो  and converted  उन्हें  into  बस   आपरेशन   .
अनेक   of   the  companies involved were convicted  in   1949  of conspiracy to monopolize  अंतरराज्यीय   कॉमर्स  but  यहूद  acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the ownership of these  कंपनियाँ   .
Some suggest that  इस   कार्यक्रम   निभाई   a  key role in the  मनाही  of public  पारगमन   in  cities across the  संयुक्त   राज्य   ;  notably Edwin J. Quinby ,  जो   पहला  drew attention to  the  program in 1946 ,  और  then  ब्रैडफोर्ड   C.   snell  , an  anti-trust  attorney  लिये  the  संयुक्त  States Senate whose  विवादास्पद   1974   गवाही   to  a Senate inquiry  brought   the   समस्या  to national awareness  .
Both  quinby  and Snell argued that the  deliberate  destruction  of   streetcars  was part of a  larger   रणनीति   to  push the  संयुक्त  States into  ऑटोमोबाइल  dependency  .
Others say  कि  independent  आर्थिक  factors  brought  about changes  in   the   पारगमन   प्रणाली  , including  the   ग्रेट   अवसाद  ,  the  Public Utility Holding  कम्पनी  Act of 1935 , labor unrest ,  मार्केट  forces  ,   rapidly  increasing traffic  जमघट  , urban  sprawl   ,  taxation policies that  favored  private vehicle ownership  ,  and  सामान्य   enthusiasm  for  the   ऑटोमोबाइल   .
One writer on  the  subject has suggested  कि  Snell and others  गिरी  into  simplistic   षड्यंत्र   सिद्धान्त  thinking , bordering  on   paranoid   delusions   saying  ``  clearly  ,  gm   waged   a  war on  इलेक्ट्रिक   कर्षण  .
It was  बेशक  an  सब  out assault ,  लकिन   by  no means the single  कारण  for  the   विफलता   of  rapid transit .
Also , it is  बस   as   साफ  that actions  और   inactions  by government  contributed  significantly  to  the  विलोपन   of  electric  कर्षण  .  ''
तभी   a  small handful of  u.S.  cities  have  surviving effective rail-based urban  हस्तांतरण   प्रणालियों  based  on  streetcars or  trams  ,  सहित  Newark , Philadelphia , San Francisco ,  पिट्सबर्ग  , and  बोस्टन   ;  others  हैं  re-introducing them  .
The story has  महरूम   छान   अनेक   टाइम्स  in print , film  और   अन्य  media ,  notably  in Who Framed Roger  खरगोश   ,  Taken for a Ride and The  समाप्त  of Suburbia  .
corwin   हाउस  ,  सलेम   ,  Massachusetts  ,   निर्मित   ca   .  1660  ,  First Period  अंग्रेज़ी
American  औपनिवेशिक  architecture includes several  भवन  design styles associated with  the  colonial period  of   the   संयुक्त  States  ,  including First  काल   अंग्रेज़ी  (  late-medieval  ) , French Colonial  ,  Spanish Colonial , Dutch Colonial and Georgian .
These styles  हैं   संबद्ध  with  the   घरों  , churches  और  government buildings  of  the period from  परिचय   1600  through the 19th  सदी  .
``  in   the   मनोदशा   ''   is   a  big  बैंड   era  # 1  hit   अंकित  by  अमरीकी  bandleader Glenn  मिलर  .
It  अव्वल   the   चार्ट   in  1940 in  the  U.S. and  एक  year  बाद  was featured in the  फिल्म  Sun Valley Serenade .
In 1999  ,  National Public  रेडियो  ( NPR  )  included the 1939 Glenn  मिलर  recording on RCA Bluebird on  the   npr  100  ,   the   सूची  of  ``   the   100  most  महत्वपूर्ण  American musical works of  the  20th century '' .
NEPTUNE logo
The NEPTUNE  कनाडा   प्रोजेक्ट  is the world’s  पहला  regional-scale underwater ocean observatory  कि  plugs directly into the  अंतरजाल  .
Since  दिसम्बर  2009  ,  it has allowed people  to  `` surf  ''   the  seafloor while  समंदर  scientists run  deep-water  experiments from labs  और  universities  around   the  world  .
Along with its sister project  ,  VENUS  ,  NEPTUNE offers  a  unique  दृष्टिकोण  to ocean science  .
Traditionally , ocean scientists have relied  on  infrequent ship  क्रूज़  or space-based satellites to carry out their research , while the NEPTUNE  प्रोजेक्ट   उपयोग   a  remotely operated  क्रॉलर   .
A gramophone  रिकार्ड   ,  commonly known  as  a phonograph  रिकार्ड  (  in  American  अंग्रेज़ी  ) , vinyl record  (  in reference to vinyl , the material most commonly  प्रयुक्त  after about 1950 ) , or colloquially  ,  `` a record '' , is  an  analog  ध्वनि  storage medium consisting  of  a  चपटा   डिस्क  with an inscribed  ,   modulated  spiral groove .
the  groove usually starts near  the  periphery and ends near the center of  the  disc  .
Phonograph  रिकॉर्ड  are generally described  by  their diameter  in   इंच  ( 12-inch  ,  10-inch ,  7-inch  ,  इत्यादि   .  )  ,  the rotational speed  at  which they are  निभाई   (   ``  33 rpm  ``   ,  ``  78   ''   ,   ``  45 ''  ,  etc  .  ) , their  समय   क्षमता   (   ``  long playing '' ) , their reproductive  सटीकता   ,   or   ``   वफ़ादारी   ``  ( ``  ऊँची   वफ़ादारी  '' ,  ``  Orthophonic ''  ,  `` full-range ''  ,  etc .  )  , and the number of  चैनल्स  of audio  provided  (  ``  mono  ``   ,  ``  स्टीरियो   ``  , ``  quadraphonic  `` , etc . ) .
Phonograph  रिकॉर्ड  were the  प्राथमिक  medium used for music reproduction for  सबसे  of the 20th  सदी   ,  replacing  the  phonograph cylinder  ,   साथ   जिससे   it   था  co-existed , by  the  1920s .
By the  लेट   1980s  , digital  मीडिया  had gained  a   larger  market  share  ,  और  the vinyl record  बाएँ   the  mainstream  in  1991 .
वे   continue  to  be  manufactured  और  sold in the 21st century .
In 2008  ,   nearly  2.9  लाख  units  shipped   ,  the most in  कोई   साल   चूंकि   1998  and  the  format has continued  to  slowly regain  लोकप्रियता   .
They  हैं   विशेषकर  used by  djs  and  audiophiles   लिये  many  प्रकार  of music .
As  of  2013  ,  vinyl  रिकॉर्ड  continue  to   be   प्रयुक्त  for distribution .
Grassland  in   the   सांता  Rosa  पठार  ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   .
घासभूमि   in  the  antelope  Valley , California
the   konza  tallgrass  प्रेयरी   in   the  Flint Hills of northeastern  कान्सास   .
A grassland in the Philippines  .
An Inner Mongolian  घासभूमि   in  the  लोगों   's  Republic  of  China
grasslands   हैं   क्षेत्रों   जहाँ  the vegetation  is  dominated by grasses  (   पोएसी  ) ,  however  sedge (  cyperaceae  ) and rush (  juncaceae   )  families can  भी  be found .
Grasslands occur  naturally  on all continents except  अंटार्कटिक  .
in   शीतोष्ण   latitudes  ,  ऐसे  as  northwestern   यूरोपीय   और   the  Great Plains and  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  in North  अमेरिका   ,  native  grasslands  are dominated by perennial bunch grass species , whereas  in  warmer  climates   सालाना  species form  a  greater component  of  the vegetation .
Grasslands are  मिला  in  सबसे   ecoregions  of the Earth .
For example there  हैं  five terrestrial ecoregion classifications  (  subdivisions  )  of the  शीतोष्ण  grasslands  ,  savannas , and shrublands  बायोम   (   '  ecosystem '  )  ,  जिससे  is one  of  eight terrestrial  ecozones  of the Earth 's  सतह   .
हिना   (  Lawsonia inermis ,  भी  called henna  पेड़   )  or Hina  is  a flowering plant ,  the  sole  प्रजाति  in  the  genus  lawsonia   in   the  family Lythraceae .
The English name  ``  henna  ''  comes  इससे  the  अरबी  (  ala-lc  :  ḥinnāʾ  /  सुनाया  ) or colloquially ,  loosely   सुनाया   .
The  नाम  is also used  लिये   डाई  preparations  निकला  from the  संयंत्र  ,  और   लिये  the art  of  temporary tattooing based  on  those dyes .
हिना  has  महरूम  used  चूंकि   प्राचीनता  to dye skin ,  बाल  , and fingernails  ,  as  खूब  as  fabrics  including  रेशा  ,  ऊन  and  चमड़े   .
Additionally  ,  the  नाम   is   misused   लिये  other skin  और   बाल  dyes  ,   ऐसे  as black henna or neutral henna , which are not derived from the  संयंत्र  .
A thin  फिल्मी   is   a  layer of material ranging from  भिन्नों   of  a nanometer ( monolayer ) to  अनेक   micrometers   in  thickness .
Electronic semiconductor  डिवाइस   और  optical coatings  हैं  the  प्रमुख  applications  लाभकारी  from thin-film  निर्माण  .
A  परिचित   अनुप्रयोग  of  पतला  films  is   the   household  mirror  ,  which typically  रै  a  पतला   मेटल   कोटिंग   on  the back of a sheet  of  glass  to   रूप   a  reflective  इंटरफ़ेस  .
the  process  of   silvering  was once commonly  प्रयुक्त   to  produce  mirrors  .
a  very-thin-film coating  (  less than  a  nanometer thick  )   is   प्रयुक्त  to produce  two-way  mirrors .
the   प्रदर्शन   of  optical coatings  (   e.g  .  antireflective  , or  ar   ,  coatings  )  are typically  उन्नत  when  the   thin-film  coating consists  of  multiple layers having varying thicknesses  और  refractive  indices  .
Similarly  ,  a periodic structure  of  alternating thin films of  अलग  materials  may  collectively form a  so-called  superlattice  जिससे   कारनामे  the phenomenon  of   क्वांटम   कारावास  by  restricting   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   phenomena  to  two-dimensions   .
कार्य  is  होने   किया  with  ferromagnetic   और  ferroelectric thin films  लिये   उपयोग  as computer  मेमोरी  .
It is also being applied to  दवाएँ  , via thin-film drug  डिलीवरी  .
Thin-films are  प्रयुक्त   to  produce thin-film  बैटरी   .
Thin films are also used in dye-sensitized  सौर  cells  .
सिरेमिक  thin films are  in  wide use  .
The relatively high  कठोरता  and  inertness   of  ceramic  सामग्री   मेक  this type of thin coating  of  interest for protection of substrate materials  विरूद्ध  corrosion ,  ऑक्सीकरण   और  wear .
In particular ,  the  use  of   ऐसे  coatings  on  cutting tools can extend  the  life of these items by  अनेक   आदेश  of  परिमाण  .
शोध   is  being done on a new class  of  thin-film  अकार्बनिक   ऑक्साइड   सामग्री   ,   पुकारा  amorphous  heavy-metal  cation  multicomponent   आक्साइड  ,  जिससे  could be used  to  make transparent  transistors  that are  inexpensive   ,   stable   ,   और   environmentally  benign  .
Gears  of  War  is  a military science fiction  third-person  shooter video game developed by  एपिक   खेल   और  published by  microsoft  Game Studios  .
It was  initially  released as  an  exclusive title  लिये  the Xbox 360 in November 2005  in   उत्तर  America ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , and most of Europe and included  a  `` Limited  कलेक्टर   's   संस्करण  '' with added  सामग्री   और  an  आर्ट   किताब   titled  Destroyed Beauty that detailed  much  of the  खेल   's  back-story  .
despite   the  initial  कथन  of Xbox  360  exclusivity  ,   a   microsoft  Windows  संस्करण   of   the  game  थी  developed in  संयोजन   साथ   लोगों   can  Fly  और  released  a  year later , featuring new  सामग्री  including  अतिरिक्त   अभियान   स्तर   ,  a new multiplayer game mode  ,  and Games  लिये   खिड़कियाँ  Live  कार्यक्षमता   .
the   खेल   focuses   on   the  troops of Delta  स्क्वाड   as  they  wield  a  हताश   ,  last-ditch attempt  to  save the remaining  इंसान   निवासियों   of   the  fictional planet  sera   इससे   a   अथक   और  seemingly unstoppable subterranean  दुश्मन  known as  the  Locust Horde  .
The player  assumes  the  भूमिका  of Marcus Fenix  (  but can  भी  play as  डोमिनिक  Santiago )  ,  a former  कैदी  and war-hardened soldier .
the  game  is  based on  the   उपयोग  of  कवर  and strategic fire for  the  player  to   अग्रिम  through the  scenarios   ;  a second  खिलाड़ी  can  खेल   cooperatively  through  the   प्रमुख  campaign to assist .
The  खेल  also features several online  एकाधिक   खेल  modes for  up  to eight  खिलाड़ी  .
Gears of  युद्ध   बेची  over three million copies  in  just ten weeks and was the  fastest-selling  video  खेल  of  2005   as  well as the second-most played game over Xbox  सजीव   दौरान  .
It currently  स्टैंड  as  the   5th   बेहतरीन  selling Xbox 360 game of  सब   समय  .
the   खेल   रै   चूंकि   बेची  over five million copies by September  2008   .
The  खेल   थी  well received by  आलोचकों  , who praised  इसके  gameplay and detailed visuals  ,   और   it   जीती  several ``  खेल   of  the  साल   ''  awards in  2006  .
the   कामयाबी  of the game has led  to  the  विकास  of  the   गियर्स  of War franchise , including the  2008   sequel  Gears of War  2   और   इसके  follow-up  ,   गियर्स  of War  3  , which was released  on   सितंबर   20  ,  2011  ,  बाद   having  initially  महरूम  set  to   have   महरूम   released  on April 5  ,  2011  ,   the  date  upon  which  एपिक   खेल  '  चट्टान  Bleszinski was a guest  on  Late Night with Jimmy Fallon .
Adaptations to books ,  कॉमिक्स   ,  as  खूब  as a  विशेषता  film  हैं   to  be expected .
a   पेड़  Grows in Brooklyn  is  a  1943  novel written  by  Betty Smith .
the  story  focuses  on an  irish-american   परिवार  in Williamsburg , Brooklyn , New York City .
The  अनोखा  is set in the first and second  दशकों  of the 20th century  .
the   किताब  was an  immense  success .
The main metaphor  of  the book  is  the  हार्डी   पेड़  of  स्वर्ग  , native  to  China and Taiwan , now  माना   हृदयरोग   ,  and common in  the   vacant  lots of  नई  York  नगर   .
संसार  map with  the  intertropical zone highlighted in red .
Tropical climate  zones  of the  धरती  where all twelve months have mean temperatures above  18   °c  (  64  °F ) .
the   ऊष्णकटिबन्ध  is a region  of   the  Earth  surrounding  the Equator .
it   is  limited in  अक्षांश  by the Tropic  of  Cancer  in  the northern  गोलार्ध   at   लगभग   n   और  the  tropic   of   मकर  in the southern  गोलार्ध  at  s   ;   ये  latitudes correspond to  the   अक्षीय   झुकाव   of   the  Earth .
The tropics are  भी   referred  to as the tropical zone  और  the torrid zone ( see geographical  मण्डल  ) .
The tropics include all the areas on the Earth  जहाँ   the   सूर्य  reaches  a   पाइंट  directly overhead  at   तनिक  once during the solar year .
the  tropics are  विशिष्ट   इससे  the other climatic and biomatic regions of Earth  ,   the   मध्य  latitudes and the  ध्रुवीय  regions  on   either  side of the equatorial zone  .
For the INXS  सोंग   ,  see What You Need (  सोंग  ) .
`` What  तुम  Need ''  is   an  episode of the  अमरीकी  television anthology  श्रेणी   the   गोधूलि   मण्डल   .
It  is  based  on  the  छोटी   स्टोरी   of   the  same name  by   लुईस  Padgett ( Henry  kuttner   और   C.  L.  मूर  )  .
playhousesquare  , in  the  Cleveland  थिएटर  District  in  downtown Cleveland  ,   ओहियो   ,   is   the  second-largest  थिएटर   जटिल  in the United  राज्य  , second only to New York City 's Lincoln Center  )   .
Constructed  in  a span of 19 months  in  the  जल्दी  1920s , the theaters were  subsequently  closed  bas  , but were  revived   through  a  grassroots  effort  .
Their  नवीकरण   और  reopening  helped  usher in a new era  of   शहर   पुनरोद्धार   in  Cleveland  ,   और  was called  ``  one of  the   शीर्ष   टेन  successes  in   क्लीवलैंड   इतिहास  . ''
the   ड्राइवर   और  passenger  सामने   airbags   ,  after having  महरूम  deployed ,  in   a  British Peugeot  306  car  .
An airbag  is  a vehicle  सुरक्षा  device .
It is an occupant  संयम   प्रणाली   consisting   of   a   लचीली  fabric envelope  or   cushion   designed   to  inflate rapidly  दौरान  an  ऑटोमोबाइल  collision .
इसके  purpose is to  cushion   occupants  during a crash and provide protection  to  their bodies when  वे   स्ट्राइक   आंतरिक  objects such as the  परिचालन   व्हील  or a window .
आधुनिक   वाहनों  may contain multiple  एयरबैग  modules in various  पक्ष  and frontal locations of  the   यात्री  seating positions , and sensors may deploy  एक   or  more airbags  in   an   प्रभाव   मण्डल  at  परिवर्तनीय   दरों  based on the type  ,  angle and  गंभीरता   of   प्रभाव  ; the  एयरबैग  is  designed   to  only  inflate   in   मॉडरेट   to   कठोर   frontal  crashes .
Airbags are  सामान्यतः  designed  साथ   the   इरादे   of  supplementing  the  protection of  an  occupant who  is   correctly   restrained  with  a   seatbelt  .
सबसे   डिजाइन   हैं   inflated   through   pyrotechnic   अर्थात्   और  can only  be   संचालित   एकबार  .
नए  side-impact airbag  मौड्यूल   consist  of compressed air  सिलेंडर  that  हैं  triggered in the  इवेंट   of   a  side impact  गाडी   प्रभाव  .
The first  वाणिज्यिक  designs were introduced  in  passenger automobiles during  the  1970s with limited  कामयाबी  .
व्यापक  commercial  अपनाना   of  airbags  occurred   in   अनेक  markets  दौरान  the late 1980s  और   जल्दी  1990s with a driver  एयरबैग  , and  a  front passenger airbag as well  on   कुछ  cars ; and many modern vehicles now  शामिल  four  or  more units .
IRS tax  फ़ॉर्म  are used for taxpayers and tax-exempt  संगठन  to  रपट  financial information to the  आतंरिक  Revenue Service ( IRS  )   of  the United States  .
They  हैं   प्रयुक्त  to  रपट  income  ,   गणना  taxes to be paid  to  the federal  सरकारी  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  और  disclose other  सूचना  as required by the Internal Revenue  कोड  (  आईआरसी  ) .
वहीँ  are  over  800 various  फ़ॉर्म  and schedules .
the   best-known   of  these  is   रूप  1040 used by  individuals  .
In  the   संयुक्त  States  ,  driver 's  पंक्तियां  are issued  by   प्रत्येक   व्यक्तिगत  state  (  including  वॉशिंगटन   ,  D.C. and territories  )  ,  बल्कि   than  the federal government because  of  the  राजनैतिक  concept of federalism .
Drivers are normally required to obtain  a   अनुज्ञा  from  उनके   राज्य  of residence and all states recognize each  अन्य   's  licenses for temporary visitors subject  to   सामान्य  age  आवश्यकताएँ  .
a   राज्य   may  also suspend an individual 's  ड्राइविंग  privilege  भीतर  its borders for  ट्रैफ़िक  violations  .
अनेक  states share a  आम   प्रणाली   of   अनुज्ञा  classes  ,   साथ  some  अपवाद  ,  और  commercial license  वर्ग  are  मानकीकृत   by  federal  विनियमन  at 49  cfr   भाग   383  .
चीन   रै   महरूम  the  सोर्स  of  अनेक  inventions  ,   सहित  the Four  ग्रेट  Inventions :  papermaking   ,  the compass , gunpowder , and  मुद्रण  ( both woodblock  और  movable type ) .
The  सूची  below contains  ये  and  अन्य  inventions  .
The Chinese invented technologies involving  यांत्रिकी   ,   hydraulics   ,  and mathematics applied to  horology  ,  metallurgy   ,  astronomy , agriculture ,  अभियान्त्रिकी  , music theory ,  craftsmanship   ,   nautics  , and  warfare  .
By  the   युद्धरत   राज्य   काल  ( 403–221  bc  ) , they  था   उन्नत  metallurgic  प्रौद्योगिकी   ,  including the blast furnace  और  cupola furnace  ,  while the finery forge  और  puddling process were known  by  the Han Dynasty ( 202  bc  – AD 220 ) .
A  sophisticated  economic system  in  China gave  जनम  to  आविष्कारों  such as paper money during the  सोंग  Dynasty ( 960–1279  )   .
The invention of gunpowder  by  the  10th   सदी   led  to an array of inventions such as  the  fire  तलवार  , land mine  ,   नवल   मेरा   ,   हाथ   तोपों   ,  exploding  गोलों  ,  multistage   प्रक्षेपास्त्र   ,  and rocket  बम   साथ  aerodynamic  विंग्स   और   विस्फोटक   payloads   .
With the  navigational  aid of  the   11th-century  compass and  क्षमता   to  steer at high sea with the  1st-century  sternpost  अरित्र  , premodern Chinese sailors  sailed  as  दूर  as  ईस्ट   अफ़्रीकी  and Egypt .
in  water-powered clockworks  ,  the premodern Chinese had used  the   escapement   यांत्रिकी   चूंकि   the   8th   सदी  and the  अंतहीन  power-transmitting chain drive  in  the  11th   सदी  .
They also  बना   विशाल   mechanical  puppet  थिएटर  driven  by  waterwheels and  carriage  wheels and  wine-serving  automatons driven by  चप्पू  wheel  नौकाएँ  .
the  contemporaneous Peiligang and Pengtoushan  संस्कृतियों   represent   the  oldest  पाषाणकालीन  cultures  of   चीन   और  were formed around 7000  bc  .
कुछ  of  the  first inventions  of   पाषाणकालीन  , prehistoric China  शामिल  semilunar  और  rectangular  स्टोन   knives  , stone hoes and  हुकुम  , the cultivation of millet ,  राइस   और   the   सोयाबीन  , the  refinement   of   sericulture   ,  the  भवन   of  rammed earth structures  साथ  lime  -plastered   हाउस  floors  ,  the creation of the potter 's wheel  ,  the  सृष्टि   of  pottery  साथ   cord-mat-basket  designs , the creation  of  pottery tripods  और  pottery steamers , and the  विकास   of  ceremonial  बरतन  and  scapulimancy   लिये  purposes  of   भविष्यवाणी   .
फ्रांसिस्का  Bray  argues   कि   the  domestication  of  the ox and buffalo  दौरान   the  Longshan culture (  c.   3000–c   .   2000  BC ) period ,  the  absence  of  Longshan-era  सिंचाई  or  high-yield  crops  ,  full  प्रमाण  of  longshan   cultivation  of  dry-land  cereal  फसलों   जिससे   दिया  high yields `` only  जब  the soil was carefully  cultivated   ,  '' suggest  कि  the plow was  ज्ञात   at   तनिक   by   the  Longshan  संस्कृति  period  और   explains  the high agricultural production yields  जिससे  allowed the rise of Chinese  सभ्यता  during the  शांग   राजवंश  ( c.  1600–c  . 1050 BC )  .
साथ  later inventions  ऐसे  as the multiple-tube  बीज  drill  और  heavy moldboard iron  हल  , China 's  agricultural  output could sustain a  much  larger  जनसांख्यिकी  .
For the  उद्देश्य  of this list  ,   आविष्कारों  are regarded  as  technological firsts developed  in  China , and as such does not include foreign technologies which the Chinese acquired through contact ,  ऐसे  as the  पवनचक्की   इससे   the  Middle East  or   the   दूरदर्शी   इससे   जल्दी   आधुनिक   यूरोपीय  .
It also does  नहीं  include  technologies   विकसित  elsewhere and  बाद   invented  separately by the Chinese , such as the odometer  और   कड़ी  pump .
Scientific  ,  mathematic or natural discoveries  ,  changes in minor concepts of  डिज़ाइन  or  स्टाइल   और  artistic innovations  can   नहीं  be regarded as inventions  और  do  नहीं   appear   on  the list .
सकल  domestic  उत्पाद  in  2011  US dollars  प्रति  capita  ,   समायोजित   लिये  inflation and purchasing  शक्ति  parity (  log  scale ) from  1860  to 2011 , with population  (   डिस्क  area )  लिये   the  US  (   पीला   )  , UK  (   नारंगी  ) , Japan  (   रेड   )  ,  चीन  ( red ) ,  और   इण्डिया   (   ब्लू  )  .
वैश्वीकरण   (   or   globalisation—see  spelling  मतभेद   )  is  the   प्रक्रम   of  international  संयोजन   arising  from the interchange of world views ,  उत्पाद   ,   विचार   ,  and  अन्य  aspects of  संस्कृति  .
Put in simple  शर्तें   ,   वैश्वीकरण  refers to processes  कि  promote world-wide  exchanges  of national  और  cultural resources  .
Advances in transportation  और  telecommunications infrastructure ,  सहित   the  rise  of  the Internet  ,  are  प्रमुख  factors  in   वैश्वीकरण   ,   generating  further interdependence of economic and  सांस्कृतिक   क्रियाएँ  .
Though several  विद्वानों   प्लेस  the origins of globalization in modern  टाइम्स  ,  अन्य   ट्रेस   इसके   इतिहास  long before  the  European age of  डिस्कवरी   और   voyages  to the New  संसार  .
कुछ   भी   ट्रेस  the  origins   to  the  तीसरा   मिलेनियम   bce   .
चूंकि   the   शुरूआत  of the 20th century , the pace of  वैश्वीकरण   रै  intensified at a  रैपिड  rate , especially  दौरान  the Post  ठंडा   युद्ध  era .
the  term globalization  रै   महरूम   in   increasing  use since  the   mid-1980s   और  especially since  the  mid-1990s  .
in   2000  , the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Monetary  निधि   (  IMF  )  identified  चार   मौलिक   पहलुओं   of  globalization :  व्यापार  and transactions ,  पूंजी  and  निवेश   आंदोलनों  ,  माइग्रेशन  and  गति  of people and the dissemination of knowledge  .
further  , environmental challenges such as  जलवायु   बदलें   ,  cross-boundary water and air  प्रदूषण  ,  और  over-fishing of the ocean are  linked  with globalization  .
Globalizing processes affect and are affected by  कारोबार   और   कार्य   संगठन  , economics ,  socio-cultural   संसाधन  , and the  प्राकृतिक  environment .
The Replacements is  a  2000  अमरीकी   खेल   कॉमेडी   फिल्मी  directed by Howard Deutch  .
it  stars  कियानू  Reeves ,  जीन  Hackman ,  और   ब्रुक   langton  .
an   अमरीकी  Airlines  वायुयान  takes  बंद  from  dallas/fort   लायक   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport .
इस   विमानक्षेत्र  is the airline  's  largest hub  .
अमरीकी   एयरलाइंस   उड़ता  to  79  domestic destinations  और  78 international destinations  in  48 countries .
(   as  of  दिसम्बर   2012  )
the   सूची   शामिल  the city , country  ,  the  कोड  of  the  International  एयर  Transport Association ( IATA  विमानक्षेत्र  code  )  and  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   सिविल   विमानन  Organization  (  ICAO airport code ) , and  the   विमानक्षेत्र  's name  ,   साथ  the airline 's  hubs  ,  फ़ोकस  cities and seasonal destinations marked .
The  सूची  also  contains   गंतव्यों  no longer served by the airline , which  हैं  marked as terminated  गंतव्यों  .
It does not include destinations  परोसा  for American Airlines by  इसके  regional affiliates  अमरीकी  Eagle Airlines ,  कार्यपालिका   एयरलाइंस   ,  and  americanconnection  .
`` Day-O (  the   banana  Boat Song  )  '' is a traditional Jamaican mento folk song ,  the  best-known version of which was  सुंग  by Harry  belafonte   और  an  वैकल्पिक  version interspersed with another  jamaican   folksong  ,  हिल  and Gully Rider , by  dame   शर्ली   bassey   .
Despite  the   सोंग   's   mento  influences  ,   ``  Day-O (  the   banana   नाव   सोंग   )   ''  is widely  ज्ञात  as an example of calypso  म्यूज़िक  .
It is a work song  ,  from  the   पाइंट  of  दृश्य   of   डॉक  workers working the  रात्रि  shift  लदान  bananas  onto  ships .
daylight  has come  ,   the   शिफ़्ट   is  over and they  want  their work to  be   गिने  up so  कि   वे  can go  घर  .
World War I (  wwi  )  थी  a  वैश्विक  war centred  in   यूरोपीय  that  began  on 28  जुलाई  1914  और  lasted until 11 November  1918  .
it  was  predominantly   पुकारा   the  World  युद्ध  or the Great War  इससे  its  occurrence   जबतक  the start of World War  ii   in  1939  ,   और  the  पहला   संसार   युद्ध   or   संसार   युद्ध  I thereafter  .
It involved all the world 's  ग्रेट  powers  ,   जिससे  were assembled  in  two opposing alliances :  the   allies   (  based on the Triple Entente of  the  United Kingdom ,  फ़्रांस  and Russia  )   और   the  Central  शक्तियां  ( originally  the  Triple Alliance of Germany  ,  Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but  ,  as Austria–Hungary had taken  the   अप्रिय  against the agreement , Italy did not  डालें  into  the   युद्ध   )   .
These alliances were  दोनो   reorganised   और   विस्तारित  as  अधिक  nations  डाला  the  युद्ध  :  इटली  , Japan  और  the  संयुक्त  States joined the Allies  ,   और   the   उस्मानी   साम्राज्य  and Bulgaria the  सेंट्रल   शक्तियां  .
Ultimately ,  अधिक  than  70   लाख  military personnel  ,   सहित   60   लाख  Europeans  ,  were  mobilised  in one of  the  largest wars in history .
More  than  9 million  combatants  were  मारे   ,   largely   क्युकी  of technological advancements  कि  led to enormous  increases  in the lethality  of  weapons without corresponding  सुधार  in protection or  गतिशीलता  .
It  थी  the  fifth-  deadliest  विरोध  in world  इतिहास  , subsequently paving the  रास्ता  for various political  परिवर्तन   ,  such as  revolutions   in  many of the  राष्ट्र   शामिल  .
एक  of the  long-term  causes  of   the  war  थी  the  पुनरुत्थान   of   साम्राज्यवाद  in the  विदेशी  policies  of   the   ग्रेट   शक्तियां   of   यूरोपीय   .
अधिक   तत्काल  ,  the  assassination  of  Archduke  फ्रांज  Ferdinand of  ऑस्ट्रिया  ,  the   वारिस   to  the  सिंहासन   of   austria-hungary   ,  on 28 June  1914   by  Yugoslav  राष्ट्रवादी   gavrilo  Princip  in  Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis  जब  Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum  to  the  किंगडम  of Serbia  .
Several alliances  formed  over the previous decades  यहूद  invoked .
Within  सप्ताह  , the major  शक्तियां   यहूद  at war  और  , via  उनके  colonies ,  the  conflict soon spread around the  संसार   .
on  28 July  ,   the  Austro-Hungarians fired  the  first shots of the war as preparation for the  आक्रमण   of  Serbia  .
While  the  Russians  mobilised   ,  the  germans  invaded neutral  बेल्जियम  and Luxembourg  on   the   रास्ता  to  फ़्रांस  ,  providing   a  casus belli for Britain 's declaration  of  war  विरूद्ध   जर्मनी  .
After  the  German march on  पेरिस  was brought to a halt—the  so-called  Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled  into   a  static battle  of  attrition  साथ   a   गर्त  line  कि   बदला   छोटी  until  1917  .
on  the Eastern  सामने  ,  the  Russian army was successful against  the  Austro-Hungarians  ,  but was stopped  in   इसके  invasion of  ईस्ट   prussia   by  the  germans   .
in  November the  उस्मानी  Empire joined the  युद्ध  ,  खोलने  up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia  और   the  Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went to war  in  1915  और   रोमानिया   in  1916 .
In Russia  ,   the   त्सार   's  government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November  brought  the  russians  to terms with  the  Central Powers  .
बाद   a  1918  जर्मनी  offensive  साथ  the western front ,  the   allies  drove back the  germans   in   a  series of successful offensives  और  American forces began entering the  trenches  .
जर्मनी  , which had  इसके  own trouble with revolutionaries  ,  agreed to an  armistice   on  11 November  1918  .
the  war  ended  in  विजय   लिये  the  allies  .
Events on the  घर   fronts   यहूद  as tumultuous as  on   the  battle  fronts   ,   as   the   भागीदार  tried  to  mobilize  उनके   जनशक्ति  and economic resources  to  fight a total  युद्ध  .
by  the  समाप्त  of  the  war  ,  four major imperial powers—the German  ,   रूसी  , Austro-Hungarian and  उस्मानी   empires—ceased   to  exist  .
the  successor  राज्य   of   the  former two lost  a  great  राशि  of territory , while  the   latter  two  यहूद  dismantled entirely  .
The map  of  central Europe  थी   redrawn  into several smaller states .
the  League of  राष्ट्र  was  formed  in the hope  of  preventing  another   ऐसे   विरोध  .
The European  राष्ट्रवाद  spawned by the war  और  the breakup of  empires  , the repercussions of Germany 's  शिकस्त   और   समस्याएं  with  the   सन्धि  of Versailles  हैं  agreed to  be  factors contributing  to   संसार   युद्ध  II .
Nurse Jackie  is   an  American series that  premiered  on June 8  ,  2009  ,  on Showtime , Movie Central and The Movie  संजाल  .
The  श्रेणी  stars  edie  Falco  as   the   शीर्षक  character  जैकी  Peyton , an emergency  विभाग  nurse at All  संतो  ' Hospital  in  New  यॉर्क  City  .
लिये  Jackie  ,  ``  प्रत्येक  day  is   a  high wire act of juggling patients ,  डॉक्टर  , fellow  नर्स   और   उसके  own indiscretions .  ''
Keeping Up  साथ  the Kardashians  (  often  referred   to  simply as The Kardashians  )  is an American reality television series that premiered  on  October 14 ,  2007   ,  on E  !   .
It follows the lives  of  the Kardashian/Jenner family , including sisters Kourtney , Kim  ,   और  Khloé Kardashian .
the   श्रेणी   '   कामयाबी  has led to  the  spin-offs Kourtney  और  Kim Take  नई   यॉर्क  , Khloé &  लैमर  , Kourtney and Khloé Take  मियामी  ,  और   कोर्टनी  and Kim Take Miami .
अफगानिस्तान   (   ;   ;  )  ,  officially the  इस्लामी   गणतंत्र   of  Afghanistan , is a landlocked sovereign state forming part of South Asia , Central Asia , and  to  some extent  पश्चिमी  Asia .
it  has a  जनसांख्यिकी   of   around  30 million inhabiting an  क्षेत्रफल  of approximately  ,  making  it  the 42nd  सबसे  populous and 41st  largest   स्वदेश   in  the world .
It  is  bordered by  पाकिस्तानी  in the  दक्षिण  and  the  east  ,  Iran  in  the west , Turkmenistan ,  उज़्बेकिस्तान  and  ताजिकिस्तान  in the north , and  चीन   in   the   दूर   पूर्वोत्तर  .
Afghanistan has  महरूम  an  प्राचीन  focal point  of   the   रेशा  Road  और   इंसान   माइग्रेशन  .
Archaeologists  have   मिला  evidence  of   इंसान  habitation from as far back as  the  Middle Paleolithic .
शहरी  civilization  may   have   begun  in the area as  जल्दी  as  3,000  to 2,000  bce  .
बैठे  at  an  important geostrategic  स्थान  that connects the  मध्य   ईस्ट   संस्कृति  with  सेंट्रल  Asia  और  the Indian  उपमहाद्वीप  , the  जमीन  has  महरूम   घर   to   विभिन्न   peoples   through  the  आयु  and witnessed  अनेक   सैन्य   अभियान  , notably by Alexander  the   ग्रेट   ,  Genghis Khan , and in modern era Western forces .
The land also  परोसा  as a source from which  the  Greco-Bactrians , Kushans ,  hephthalites   ,  Saffarids  ,  Ghaznavids ,  ghorids  ,  khiljis  ,  timurids  ,  मुगलों  ,  durranis  ,  और   अन्य  have risen  to   रूप  major empires  .
the   राजनैतिक   इतिहास  of  the  modern  राज्य  of  अफगानिस्तान  begins  in  1709  ,   जब   the  Hotaki dynasty was  स्थापित  in  कांधार   followed   by   अहमद  Shah Durrani 's rise to power in 1747 .
in  the  लेट   19th  century , Afghanistan became a buffer state in the  ``  Great  खेल  ``  between  the British and  रूसी  empires .
Following  the  1919  anglo-afghan  War ,  किंग   अमानुल्ला   began   a  European style modernization of  the  country  लकिन  was  रोका  by the ultra-conservatives .
During the  ठंडा  War ,  बाद   the  withdrawal of  the   अंग्रेजों   इससे  neighboring  इण्डिया  in 1947  ,  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   और  the Soviet Union began spreading  प्रभाव   in   अफगानिस्तान  ,  जिससे   led  to  a  bloody war between  the  US-backed  मुजाहिदीन   शक्तियां   और   the   soviet-backed   अफगान   सरकारी  in which  over  a million  afghans  lost their lives  .
This was followed by  the   1990s  civil war ,  the  rise  और  fall of the extremist  तालिबान   सरकारी  and the  2001–present  war .
In December  2001  ,  the  United  राष्ट्र  Security Council authorized the creation of the International Security Assistance Force  (   isaf  ) to help maintain security  in  Afghanistan  और   assist  the  करज़ई   प्रशासन  .
Three  दशकों  of  युद्ध   बना   अफगानिस्तान  one of the  संसार  's most dangerous countries  ,  including the largest  निर्माता  of refugees and  asylum   जरुरतमंदों   .
जबकि  the international community  is   पुनर्निर्माण   war-torn  Afghanistan , terrorist groups  ऐसे   as  the Haqqani  संजाल  and  hezbi  Islami are actively  शामिल   in  a nationwide Taliban  -led  insurgency ,  जिससे  includes hundreds of assassinations  और  suicide attacks  .
According  to  the United  राष्ट्र  ,  the  insurgents were  जिम्मेदार   लिये   80  % of civilian casualties in 2011 and 2012 .
The American  सिविल  War  (  ACW ) ,  भी  known  as   the   युद्ध  between the States or  बस   the  Civil War  (  see  नामकरण  )  ,  was  a  civil war fought  इससे  1861  to  1865  between   the  United States ( the ``  संघ  '' or the `` North  ''  )  और   अनेक  Southern  स्लेव  states that  घोषित  their secession and  formed   the   confederate   राज्य  of  अमेरिका  ( the `` Confederacy  ''   or   the  ``  दक्षिण  '' )  .
The war  था  its origin in the issue  of  slavery  ,   विशेषकर   the  extension  of  slavery  into   the  western territories  .
Foreign powers  किया  not intervene .
बाद   चार   सालो   of  bloody  कॉम्बैट  that  बाएँ  over  600,000   सैनिको  dead  और  destroyed  much   of  the South 's infrastructure , the  confederacy  collapsed , slavery was  abolished  , and  the   मुश्किल   पुनर्निर्माण   प्रक्रम   of   restoring  national  एकता  and  guaranteeing  rights to  the   freed  slaves  began   .
In the  1860   अध्यक्षीय  election ,  republicans  , led  by   अब्राहम   lincoln  ,  opposed  expanding slavery into United States  '  territories .
Lincoln  जीती   ,  but before his inauguration on  कूच   4   ,   1861  ,  सात  cotton-based slave  राज्य   formed   the   confederacy  .
outgoing  Democratic  अध्यक्ष   जेम्स   बुकानन   और  the  आवक   republicans  rejected secession  as  illegal  .
lincoln  's inaugural  पता   घोषित  his  प्रशासन  would not initiate civil war .
Eight  बाकी  slave states  जारी   to  reject calls  लिये  secession  .
confederate   शक्तियां  seized  numerous   संघीय  forts  भीतर   territory  claimed by the  confederacy   .
A Peace  सम्मेलन  failed  to   ढूँढें  a  सुलह  , and both sides prepared for war .
the   confederates  assumed that  यूरोपीय  countries  यहूद   so   निर्भर   on   ``  King Cotton `` that they would  intervene  ; none did and  none  recognized the new  confederate   राज्य  of  अमेरिका   .
Hostilities began on  अप्रैल  12 , 1861  ,  when Confederate forces  fired  upon Fort Sumter ,  a   कुंजी  fort held by  संघ   सैनिकों   in   दक्षिण  Carolina  .
Lincoln called for each state  to  provide  सैनिकों  to retake  the  fort ;  नतीजतन  , four  अधिक  slave  राज्य   joined   the  Confederacy , bringing  उनके  total to eleven .
The  संघ  soon controlled the  किनारा  states  और  established a naval blockade  कि   अबोध  the  दक्षिणी  economy .
the  Eastern Theater was inconclusive in  1861–62   .
The  पतझड़  1862 Confederate campaign into  मेरीलैंड  ( a Union  राज्य   )   ended  with  confederate  retreat at  the  Battle  of  Antietam ,  dissuading  British  हस्तक्षेप   .
lincoln  issued the  emancipation  Proclamation , which made ending slavery a war  लक्ष्य  .
To  the  west  ,  by summer 1862  the  Union  नष्ट  the  confederate   नदी  navy , then much of their western  सेना  ,  और  the Union at Vicksburg  विभाजित  the  confederacy   in   दो  at  the  Mississippi  नदी  .
in  1863 , Robert  E.  Lee 's Confederate incursion  उत्तर   ended  at  the   बैटल  of Gettysburg  .
पश्चिमी  successes led  to  Ulysses  S.  Grant  कमांड  of  सब  Union  सेना  in 1864 .
In the Western Theater  ,  William T.  शरमन   drove  east to capture  अटलांटा   और   marched   to  the sea , destroying Confederate  अवसंरचना   साथ   the  way  .
The  संघ   marshaled  the resources and  जनशक्ति  to attack  the   confederacy   इससे  all directions ,  और   could   afford   to  fight battles of attrition through  the  Overland Campaign towards  रिचमंड  ,  the  Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate  फौज   विफल   ,  leading  to  Lee  's  surrender  to  Grant at  appomattox  Court  हाउस   on   अप्रैल   9   ,  1865 .
The  अमरीकी  Civil War was  एक  of  the   earliest  true industrial wars  .
Railroads  ,  the telegraph ,  steamships  ,  और  mass-produced  हथियार   यहूद   employed  extensively  .
The  mobilization  of civilian factories ,  खानों  , shipyards , banks  ,  transportation and food  आपूर्तियाँ  all  foreshadowed   संसार  War  i   .
It remains  the  deadliest war in American  इतिहास   ,  resulting in the  मौतों   of   an  estimated 750,000 soldiers  और   an   undetermined  number  of  civilian  हताहत  .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the  मौत   टोल  at ten percent  of   सब   उत्तरी  males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all Southern  श्वेत   males  aged 18–40 .
Cost of  goods   बेची  ( COGS  )   refer  to the inventory costs  of  those goods a business  रै   बेची   दौरान   a   particular   काल   .
लागत   हैं  associated  साथ   particular  goods  using   एक  of several formulas  ,  including  विशिष्ट  identification  ,  first-in first-out  (   fifo  )  ,   or   औसत  cost .
Costs  शामिल  all  लागत  of purchase , costs of conversion  और   अन्य   लागत  incurred  in  bringing the  inventories   to  their  उपस्थित  location and condition  .
लागत  of  goods  made by  the  business include  सामग्री   ,  labor ,  और   आबंटित   ओवरहेड  .
The costs  of   those  goods not yet sold are  deferred  as costs of inventory until the inventory is sold or written  bas  in  मान  .
Freak  lunchbox  candy store in  halifax  , Nova  स्कोटिया
a  confectionery  स्टोर  ( more commonly  referred  to  as   a  sweet  दूकान   in  the  संयुक्त  Kingdom ,  a   कैंडी  store in  the  North America , or  a  lolly shop in Australia  )   बिकता  confectionery and is usually targeted to  children  .
सबसे  confectionery  स्टोर्स  are  भर  with an assortment of  मिठाई  far larger than a  पंसारी   or  convenience  स्टोर  could accommodate .
वे  often offer a selection of old fashioned treats  ,  and sweets from different  देशों  .
बहुत  often unchanged  in  layout since their  inception  , confectioneries are  ज्ञात  for their  वार्मिंग  and nostalgic feel  .
the  village  of  Pateley Bridge claims  to   have  the oldest confectionery store in  इंग्लैण्ड   .
the  oldest sweet shop in  इंग्लैण्ड   ,   in  the village of Pateley Bridge
Oklahoma (  )  ( Pawnee  :   uukuhuúwa   ,   cay  :  gahnawiyoˀgeh  ) is a  राज्य  located  in  West South  सेंट्रल   संयुक्त  States .
ओक्लाहोमा  is the  20th   सबसे   extensive  and the 28th most populous of the  50  United States .
The state  's   नाम  is derived from  the  Choctaw words  okla   और  humma  ,   अर्थ  `` red people ''  ,   और   it  is known  informally  by its nickname , The Sooner  राज्य  .
Formed  by  the combination  of  Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory on  नवम्बर  16 , 1907  ,   ओक्लाहोमा   थी  the 46th  राज्य   to  enter the  संघ   .
Its residents are  ज्ञात  as Oklahomans or  ,  informally  ``   okies   ''  ,  और   इसके  capital and largest city is  ओक्लाहोमा  City .
a   प्रमुख   निर्माता   of  natural gas  ,   आयल  , and agriculture , Oklahoma  relies   on   an   आर्थिक  base of  विमानन  , energy , telecommunications , and biotechnology  .
it   रै  one of the  तीव्रतम  growing  economies   in  the nation  ,   रैंकिंग  among  the  top  राज्य   in  per capita income  विकास  and gross  घरेलू   उत्पाद  growth .
Oklahoma City  और  Tulsa serve as Oklahoma  's  primary economic anchors , with  nearly  two thirds of  oklahomans  living  भीतर  their metropolitan  सांख्यिकीय  areas .
With  छोटी  mountain  सीमाएँ   ,  prairie  ,   mesas   ,   और   पूर्वी  forests  ,  most  of  Oklahoma lies in  the  Great Plains and the  u.s  . Interior Highlands  —a  region especially  prone  to severe weather .
In  जोड   to   having  a  व्यापकता  of English  ,   जर्मनी   ,  Scottish ,  आयरिश   और  Native American  ancestry   ,  more than 25  देशी   अमरीकी   भाषाएं   हैं  spoken  in   ओक्लाहोमा  ,  दूसरी  only to California .
ओक्लाहोमा  is  स्तिथ   on   a   संगम   of   तीन  major American  सांस्कृतिक   regions  and  historically   परोसा   as   a  route for cattle drives ,  a  destination for southern  settlers  , and a government-sanctioned territory for  देशी  Americans  .
Stacked and standing car  टायर
a  tire ( or  टायर   )  is a  ring-shaped  covering  कि  fits  around   a   व्हील  's rim  to  protect it and enable  बेहतर  vehicle performance .
Most tires  ,  such  as  those for  ऑटोमोबाइल  and  साइकिल   ,  provide traction between the vehicle and the road while  providing  a flexible cushion  कि   absorbs  shock  .
The materials of modern  न्यूमेटिक  tires are synthetic rubber ,  प्राकृतिक  rubber ,  कपड़ा   और  wire , along with carbon black and other  रासायनिक   यौगिकों   .
They  consist  of a tread and a body .
the   tread   provides  traction  जबकि  the  देह  provides containment  लिये  a  मात्रा   of   संपीडित  air .
Before  रबर  was  विकसित  , the first  संस्करण   of   टायर  were simply  bands  of  मेटल  that fitted around  लकड़ी  wheels  to   prevent  wear and  आंसू  .
Early  रबर  tires were solid ( not pneumatic  )  .
आज   ,  the majority of  टायर  are pneumatic  inflatable   structures  ,  comprising   a  doughnut-shaped body  of   रस्सियाँ   और  wires  encased   in  rubber and  generally  filled  साथ   संपीडित  air to form an  inflatable  cushion .
Pneumatic tires are used  on   अनेक   प्रकार  of  वाहनों  , including  गाड़ियाँ  , bicycles , motorcycles  ,  trucks  ,   earthmovers   ,   और   वायुयान   .
Metal tires are still used on locomotives  और   railcars  , and solid rubber  (  or other polymer ) tires  हैं   स्टिल   प्रयुक्त   in  various non-automotive applications  ,   ऐसे   as  some casters  ,  carts , lawnmowers , and wheelbarrows .
Dr. Joseph Warren ( June 11 , 1741 – June 17 , 1775 ) was an  अमरीकी  doctor who  निभाई  a leading  भूमिका   in  American  patriot   संगठन  in  बोस्टन  in early  दिनों   of  the American Revolution  ,   आखिरकार   सेवारत  as president  of  the  क्रांतिकारी  Massachusetts Provincial Congress  .
वारेन  enlisted  पॉल   आदर  and William Dawes on  अप्रैल  18 ,  1775   ,   to  leave  बोस्टन   और   स्प्रेड  the alarm that  the   अंग्रेजों   गैरीसन  in  बोस्टन   थी   सेटिंग  out  to   रेड  the  कस्बा   of  Concord and arrest  विद्रोही   नेताओ  John Hancock  और  Samuel  एडम्स   .
Warren  participated   in  the next  दिन   's  Battles of Lexington and Concord ,  जिससे   हैं  commonly  माना  to  be  the opening  engagements  of the  अमरीकी   क्रांतिकारी   युद्ध  .
वारेन  had been  commissioned  a Major General in the  उपनिवेश  's militia shortly  पहले   the  June  17  ,  1775  Battle  of  Bunker  हिल  .
Rather than exercising his rank ,  वारेन  served  in  the battle as  a  private  सिपाही  , and was  मारे   in  combat  जब   अंग्रेजों  troops  stormed   the  redoubt atop  नस्ल  's  हिल   .
उसके   मौत   ,  immortalized  in  John Trumbull 's  पेंटिंग   ,   the  Death of General  वारेन   at   the   बैटल  of Bunker  's   हिल   ,  June  17  , 1775  ,  galvanized the rebel forces ,  और   he  has  महरूम   स्मरणीय   in  many  प्लेस   names   in  the United States  .
STM  चित्र  of self-assembled  supramolecular  chains  of   the   सशुल्क  semiconductor  quinacridone  on  ग्रेफाइट   .
An  सशुल्क  semiconductor  is  an organic  सामग्री  with semiconductor properties , that  is   ,  with  an  electrical conductivity between that  of  insulators and that  of   धातुओं  .
सिंगल   अणुओं  , short  कड़ी  ( oligomers ) and  सशुल्क   polymers  can be  semiconductive   .
Semiconducting small molecules  (  aromatic hydrocarbons )  शामिल  the polycyclic  खुशबूदार  compounds  pentacene  , anthracene  ,  and  rubrene   .
polymeric  organic semiconductors  शामिल   बहु   (  3-hexylthiophene ) , poly  (   p-phenylene  vinylene ) ,  as   खूब  as polyacetylene and its  डेरिवेटिव   .
There  हैं  two  प्रमुख   अतिव्यापी  classes  of   सशुल्क   semiconductors  .
ये  are organic charge-transfer  देवालय  and various linear-backbone  conductive   polymers  derived from  polyacetylene  .
Linear backbone organic semiconductors  शामिल  polyacetylene itself  और   इसके  derivatives  polypyrrole  , and  polyaniline  .
At  तनिक   locally   ,   charge-transfer  complexes often exhibit similar conduction mechanisms  to   अकार्बनिक  semiconductors  .
Such  mechanisms   उठता  from the presence  of  hole  और  electron  conduction  layers  अलग  by a  बैंड  gap .
While  ऐसे  classic  mechanisms  are  महत्वपूर्ण  locally ,  as   साथ  inorganic amorphous  semiconductors  ,  tunnelling  ,  स्थानीयकृत  states , mobility gaps  ,   और  phonon -assisted  hopping  also significantly contribute to conduction , particularly in polyacetylenes .
जैसे  inorganic semiconductors ,  सशुल्क  semiconductors can  be   doped  .
सशुल्क  semiconductors susceptible  to  doping such  as  polyaniline  (  Ormecon ) and are also known  as  organic metals  .
Typical  वर्तमान   वाहक   in  organic semiconductors  हैं  holes and electrons in π-bonds .
लगभग   सब  organic  solids  are  insulators  .
लकिन   जब   उनके  constituent  अणुओं  have π-conjugate systems ,  electrons  can  मूव   via  π-electron  बादल  overlaps , especially by hopping , tunnelling and related  mechanisms  .
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and phthalocyanine salt  crystals   हैं   उदाहरण  of  इस  type of organic  सेमीकंडक्टर   .
Mainly due  to  low  गतिशीलता  , even unpaired electrons may  be  stable in  charge-transfer  complexes  .
ऐसे  unpaired electrons  can   फलन  as current  वाहक  .
इस  type of  सेमीकंडक्टर  is also  प्राप्त  by pairing  an   इलेक्ट्रॉन  donor  अणु  with an electron acceptor molecule .
मादा  ejaculation  is  the expulsion of  द्रव  by  इंसान   महिलाओं  from the  paraurethral   नलिकाएं   through   और   around  the  मादा  urethra  दौरान   or   पहले   an   orgasm  .
It is  भी  known  colloquially   as  gushing  or  squirting  ,  although  ये  are considered  to  be different phenomena  in   कुछ  research publications  .
The exact source and  प्रकृति  of the  द्रव  continue to be a topic of debate among medical professionals , which is also related to doubts  over  the existence of the G-Spot .
the  FIFA  महिलाओं  's  संसार  Cup is an international association football competition  लडे   by  the senior women 's national teams of the members  of  Fédération Internationale  de  Football  संघ   (   फीफा   )  ,  the  sport 's global governing  देह   .
the  championship has been awarded every four  सालो   चूंकि   the  inaugural tournament in 1991 .
Japan  जीती   the  2011 tournament in  a  penalty shootout  .
The  वर्तमान  format of the  टूर्नामेंट  involves 16 teams competing  लिये  the  शीर्षक   at  venues within the host  स्वदेश  ( s )  over  a period  of   परिचय  three weeks ;  –   इस  phase  is  often called the  संसार  Cup Finals .
A  योग्यता   phase   ,  which currently takes place over the preceding three  सालो   ,   is  used  to   determine  which teams  qualify  for the  टूर्नामेंट   साथ   साथ  the host  स्वदेश  (  s  ) .
The  फीफा  Women 's World Cup is  पहचाना  as  the  most important International  प्रतियोगिता  in women  's  football and  is   निभाई   amongst  women  's  national  फ़ुटबॉल   टीमों  of the member states  of   फीफा  ,  the  sport  's  global governing body .
The  पहला   महिलाओं  's World Cup  टूर्नामेंट   ,   नामित   the   महिलाओं  's  संसार   चैंपियनशिप   ,   थी   आयोजित  in 1991 , sixty-one years  बाद  the men 's  पहला  FIFA  संसार   कप   टूर्नामेंट  in  1930   .
the   छह   संसार  Cup tournaments have been won by four different  नेशनल   टीमों  .
the   अगला  World Cup will be  hosted  by  कनाडा   in  2015  .
scorpions  is a  यंग   वयस्क   अनोखा  written by Walter Dean  मायर्स  ,  पहला  published  in  the United  राज्य  by Harper &  पंक्ति  on June  20   ,   1988  .
Front  पेज  of a 17th century  यहूदी   बाइबल  by  जोसेफ  Athias , now  at  Beth Hatefutsoth ,  इसराईल
'Son of man ' is  the  translation of various Hebrew  और   यूनानी  phrases used  in   दोनो  the Hebrew Bible and  the  New  वसीयत   .
it   रै  diverse  meanings  ,  ranging   इससे  a  सामान्य  human being  to  a  prophesied  eternal  ,   दैवी  ruler .
the  Hebrew  अभिव्यक्ति   ``  son of  man  '' (  בן–אדם  i.e  .  ben-'adam  )  appears one  सौ  and seven times  in  the  यहूदी   बाइबल   .
This is  the  most common Hebrew  निर्माण  for  the  singular  लकिन  is used mostly in Ezekiel (  93  times ) and  14   टाइम्स   elsewhere  .
in  thirty  दो   मामले  the  phrase  appears  in  intermediate plural form  ``   बेटे  of  मेन  '' , i.e  .  human  beings   .
As generally  interpreted  by  यहूदियों   ,  it  denotes   humankind   generally  .
In  the   koine   यूनानी   of   the   नई  Testament  ,   ``  the son  of  man '' is  invariably  used  as   ``  ὁ  υἱὸς   τοὺ  ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite  आलेख  .
the  use  of  the definite article in  ``   the  son  of   man  '' in the  ईसाई  gospels  is  novel  ,  and  पहले  its use  वहीँ  ,  no  records of  इसके   उपयोग  in any  of   the  surviving Greek documents  of  antiquity  मौजूद   .
Geza Vermes has stated  कि  `` the Son of man  ''   in   the   ईसाई  gospels is unrelated to Hebrew Bible  usages   .
In  ईसाई   उपयोग   ,  unlike the Son of  परमेश्वर  title ,  जिससे   रै   महरूम   an  essential  तत्व  of  ईसाई   creeds  since the Apostolic  आयु   ,  the proclamation  of  ``  यीशु  as the  बेटे   of  man  ''  has never  महरूम  an article of  आस्था  in  christianity  .
The interpretation  of   the   उपयोग  of  ``  the Son  of  man  ''  in  the  New Testament has  remained  challenging and after 150 years of debate  no  consensus on the issue has emerged  among  scholars .
Master of foxhounds leads  the  field from  powderham  Castle  in  Devon ,  इंग्लैण्ड   ,  with  the  hounds  in  front .
फॉक्स  hunting is  an   कार्यकलाप   involving  the tracking , chase ,  और  sometimes  हत्या   of  a  फॉक्स  ,  traditionally  a  रेड   फॉक्स  ,  by   प्रशिक्षित   foxhounds   or  other scent  hounds  ,  और   a   समूह   of  unarmed followers led by a master of foxhounds ,  जो  follow  the   hounds   on  foot or  on  horseback  .
फॉक्स  hunting originated in  the  form practised  जबतक  recently in the United  किंगडम  in the  16th   सदी   ,   लकिन   is  practised all over  the  world ,  सहित   in   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , Canada , France  ,   आयरलैंड   ,  Italy and  the  United States .
in   ऑस्ट्रेलिया   ,  the  पद  also refers to  the   शिकार   of   foxes  with firearms similar to  spotlighting   or  deer  शिकार  .
In  much   of   the   संसार   शिकार  in general is understood  to   सुनाना  to any  खेल  animals or  हथियार   (  e.g.  ,  deer hunting  साथ  bow  और  arrow  )  ;  in   ब्रिटेन  and  आयरलैंड  , ``  शिकार  ''  बगैर  qualification implies  फॉक्स   शिकार  ( or  अन्य  forms  of   शिकार   साथ  hounds- beagling , stag hunting  ,   मिंक   शिकार   ,  drag hunting or  शिकार  the clean boot  )  as described here .
The  खेल  is  विवादास्पद  ,  विशेषकर   in  the  uk  , where it was  बैन  in Scotland in 2002  ,   और  in England and  वेल्स  in  नवम्बर  2004 (  विधि  enforced  इससे   फ़रवरी  2005  )   ,   हालांकि   शूटिंग  foxes as vermin remained  विधिक  .
Proponents  of  fox  शिकार   दृश्य   it  as an  महत्वपूर्ण  part of  ग्रामीण  culture  और   उपयोगी   लिये  reasons of conservation and pest  कंट्रोल   ,   जबकि  opponents argue that it is  बेदर्द  and unnecessary .
Tobacco  विज्ञापन   is  the advertising of tobacco products  or  use ( typically cigarette smoking  )  by the tobacco industry through a variety  of   मीडिया  including sponsorship , particularly of  sporting  events  .
It  is   अभी  one of  the   सबसे  highly regulated forms  of  marketing .
Some  or  all forms of  तम्बाकू   विज्ञापन   हैं   बैन  in many countries  .
बल्ली  Technologies ,  inc.  is  a   निर्माता   of  slot  मशीने  and other gaming technology based in  लास  Vegas  ,   नेवाडा  .
The  कम्पनी  was founded  in   1968  as  उन्नत  Patent  प्रौद्योगिकी  .
It  आखिरकार  changed  इसके  name to  गठबंधन   गेमिंग  and  acquired   ,   in   1996  ,  बल्ली  Gaming International ,  a  former  प्रभाग   of  Bally Manufacturing  .
In  2006  , the entire company  अपनाया   the  Bally  नाम   ,  a trademark that  originated  in 1932  by  the Bally Manufacturing Corporation .
Gustave Doré 's engravings illustrated  the   दैवी  Comedy ( 1861–1868  )  ;  यहाँ  ,  दांते  is lost in Canto 1 of  the  Inferno  .
inferno  ( Italian for `` Hell `` )  is  the  पहला  part of  दांते  Alighieri 's 14th-century epic poem  दैवी  Comedy .
it   is   followed   by   purgatorio   और  Paradiso  .
It is an  allegory  telling of the journey  of  Dante  through  Hell ,  हिदायत   by  the Roman  कवि   वर्जिल  .
In the poem , Hell  is  depicted  as   नौ   वृत्त  of suffering  स्तिथ   भीतर  the Earth .
Allegorically , the  दैवी   कॉमेडी  represents the  यात्रा  of  the   आत्मा  towards God ,  साथ   the  Inferno describing the recognition  और   अस्वीकृति  of sin  .
Smirnoff  is  a brand  of  vodka  स्वामित्व   और   उत्पादित  by the British  कम्पनी   diageo   .
the  Smirnoff  ब्रांड  began with  a  vodka distillery founded in  मास्को  by  pyotr   arsenievich  Smirnov ( 1831–1898 ) .
it   is  now  वितरित  in  130  countries .
It  is  produced in several countries  सहित  India  ,  Ireland ,  इटली  , the  संयुक्त  Kingdom and  the  United States  .
Smirnoff products  शामिल   वोदका   ,   flavoured  vodka  ,   और  malt  पेय   .
in   कूच  2006 ,  diageo  North America claimed that  स्मरनॉफ  vodka was the best-selling  आसुत  spirit  ब्रांड   in   the  world .
बिग  Brown (  foaled  April 10  ,   2005  in Kentucky ) is a retired champion American Thoroughbred  racehorse   और  winner of the 2008 Kentucky Derby and  2008  Preakness  stakes  .
Bred by  dr.  Gary  B.  Knapp 's Monticule Farms in Lexington ,  केंटकी  ,  he  won  उसके  first five race starts  .
He  थी   sired  by Grade III winner Boundary ,  a   बेटे  of  उत्तर  American Champion  sire   danzig  , a son of  उत्तरी  Dancer  .
Big  भूरा  's  बांध  was Mien ,  भी   a  granddaughter  of   उत्तरी  Dancer through her  sire  ,  nureyev   .
the  Serenity Prayer  is  the common  नाम   लिये  an  originally  untitled prayer by the  अमरीकी   theologian  Reinhold  niebuhr  ( 1892–1971  )  .
it  has been  अपनाया  by Alcoholics Anonymous  और   अन्य   twelve-step   कार्यक्रम  .
the   best-known  form is  :  God  ,  grant me  the   serenity  to accept the things I can not change,
The courage  to  change  the  things I can,
And wisdom to  जान  the difference  .
the  Declaration  और  Resolves  of  the First Continental Congress ( also  ज्ञात  as the  घोषणा   of  Colonial Rights  ,   or  the  घोषणा   of  Rights  )   ,  was  a   बयान  adopted  by  the  पहला   महाद्वीपीय   कॉंग्रेस   on  October  14  , 1774  ,  in  जवाब  to  the  Intolerable  अधिनियमों  passed  by  the  अंग्रेजों   पार्लियामेंट  .
The Declaration outlined colonial objections to the Intolerable Acts ,  सूचीबद्ध   a   औपनिवेशिक   विधेयक  of  अधिकारों  , and provided  a  detailed list  of   grievances  .
It was  समान  to the  घोषणा  of  अधिकारों   और  Grievances ,  passed  by  the  Stamp Act Congress a  दशक   पहले  .
the  Declaration concluded with an outline of Congress 's  योजनाएँ  :  to  enter  into  a boycott of British  व्यापार  (  the  Continental Association  )  until  उनके  grievances were redressed ,  to   प्रकाशित  addresses to the  लोगों   of  Great Britain and British America  ,   और   to  send  a  petition  to   the   किंग  .
पल्स   दबाव  is the pressure that  is  felt when  अहसास  the pulse .
measured   in  millimeters of  पारा   (  mmHg ) ,  the  pressure difference between the systolic and diastolic  pressures  is the pressure change  to   बनाएँ  the pulse ,  जिससे  is  the   पल्स   दबाव   .
If resting  रक्त   दबाव   is  (  systolic/diastolic  )  120/80  millimeters of  पारा  ( mmHg ) ,  पल्स  pressure  is   40   .
The  पहाड़ियाँ  is a  वास्तविकता  television series  जिससे  originally  aired   on  MTV from May  31  ,  2006  until July 13 , 2010 .
the   दिखाएँ  uses  a  reality  टेलीविज़न   स्वरूप  , following  the  personal lives  of  several young adults  जीना  in Los Angeles , California  ,  but tends towards  a   कथा  format more commonly found in scripted genres  ऐसे  as soap  operas  .
The  श्रेणी   originally  followed  the  personal life of former Laguna Beach star Lauren Conrad  और  her  मित्रों  ' new lives in  लॉस  Angeles .
After five seasons , Conrad  बाएँ   the  series  और  was  replaced  by another former Laguna  बीच   स्टार  ,  kristin   cavallari   ,   शुरूआत  in the  दूसरी  half  of  the  पांचवां   ऋतु  .
The  श्रेणी  concluded  at   the  end of  the  sixth season .
Entertainment Weekly  क्रमित   the   पहाड़ियाँ   82nd  on their list of ``  the   100   बेहतरीन  Shows of  the  Last  25   सालो   ,   ''  stating  कि   the   श्रेणी  was a  ``  New Classic  .  ''
AOL TV  पुकारा   it   tv  's Biggest Guilty Pleasure  .
The series  premiered  in syndication in the fall of 2009 alongside  लगुना   बीच  :  the  Real  नारंगी   काउंटी  .
In poker , bad beat is a subjective  पद  for a  हाथ  in which  a  player with  कया   appear  to be  दमदार  cards  nevertheless   loses   .
It most  प्रायः   occurs   जहाँ  one player  bets   the  clearly  stronger  hand  और   उनके  opponent  makes  a  ग़रीब   कॉल  that eventually `` hits '' and wins  .
There is  no  consensus  among   पोकर  players  as   to  what exactly constitutes a  ख़राब  beat and often  खिलाड़ी  will disagree about  whether   a  particular hand  थी  a bad beat .
The  goldfish  (  carassius   auratus  auratus ) is  a  freshwater fish in the  परिवार  Cyprinidae of order Cypriniformes .
it  was one  of   the   earliest  fish  to   be   domesticated   ,   और   is  one  of  the most commonly  रखा  aquarium  मछली  .
a  relatively small member of  the  carp family  (  which  भी  includes  the   कोई  carp and the crucian carp )  ,   the  goldfish is  a  domesticated version  of  a  less-colorful  carp ( Carassius auratus )  देशी   to   ईस्ट  Asia .
it   थी   पहला   domesticated  in  चीन   अधिक   than   a  thousand  सालो   पहले  ,  और  several  पृथक  breeds have since been  विकसित  .
Goldfish  breeds   vary  greatly in  आकार  , body  आकार  ,  जोडे   विन्यास  and coloration  (   विभिन्न   combinations   of  white , yellow , orange , red  ,   भूरा   ,   और   ब्लैक   हैं  known )  .
uncooked  Rouladen
Rouladen  (  or Rinderroulade  ,  singular  :   roulade  )  is  a German meat roulade usually  consisting  of bacon  ,  onions , mustard and pickles wrapped  in  thinly  sliced  beef  जिससे  is then  पकाया   .
In some  देशों  ,  the   roulade   is   भी  known  as  `` beef olive '' .
Beef or veal is used as  मांस  though  कुछ   खाना  scholars  tend   to  believe that  the  original  संस्करण  was probably venison or pork  ,  and pork is still  लोकप्रिय  in some  क्षेत्रों   .
the  beef  rouladen  as we  जान  them today  have  become  लोकप्रिय  over the last century .
the   काटें   is  usually topside beef  or  silverside  चूंकि  this  is   the  cheaper  काटें   .
The  अधिक   महंगी  version would be  the  round  स्टीक   ,  also  ज्ञात  as  rump   स्टीक  .
The meat  is   काटें   into   विशाल   ,  thin  स्लाइस  .
The filling is  a   मिश्रण  of  स्मोक्ड  and  पकाया  pork belly  ,  chopped onions  और  chopped pickles  (   gurken  )  जिससे  is  at   टाइम्स  varied  by  adding minced meat , sausage meat  ,   पाइन   nuts   और   सरसों  .
The mixture varies from  प्रदेश  to region .
Rouladen  हैं   traditionally  served  लिये  dinner  .
Red wine is often  परोसा  with this  डिश  .
Typical eukaryotic  कोशिका  .
सेल्यूलर   श्वसन   is   the   नियत  of the  metabolic   प्रतिक्रियाएँ   और  processes  कि   लो  place  in   the   कोशिकाएं  of organisms to  बदलें  biochemical energy from  nutrients   into   एडीनोसिन  triphosphate  (   एटीपी  ) ,  और  then  रिलीज   बर्बाद  products .
The reactions involved  in   श्वसन   हैं  catabolic reactions , which break large molecules into  छोटी  ones ,  releasing   उर्जा  in  the  process as weak  so-called  `` high-energy  ''  bonds  हैं   replaced   by  stronger bonds in  the  products .
श्वसन   is   एक  of the key ways  a  cell  gains  useful  उर्जा   to  fuel cellular activity .
सेल्यूलर  respiration  is  considered an exothermic  रेडॉक्स   प्रतिक्रिया  .
The overall reaction  is   टूटा   into   अनेक  smaller ones when it occurs in the  देह   ,   सबसे  of which  हैं  redox reactions  themselves   .
Although technically  ,  cellular respiration is a combustion reaction  ,   it  clearly does  नहीं   resemble  one when  it   occurs  in a living cell .
This difference is  क्युकी  it occurs  in  many separate  कदम   .
While the  overall   प्रतिक्रिया   is   a  combustion  प्रतिक्रिया   ,  no  सिंगल   प्रतिक्रिया  that comprises it is  a  combustion  प्रतिक्रिया  .
Nutrients that  हैं   commonly  used by  एनिमल  and  संयंत्र  cells in respiration include sugar ,  अमीनो  acids and  वसीय   acids   ,   और  a common oxidizing  एजेंट   (   इलेक्ट्रॉन   acceptor   )  is molecular oxygen  (   o2  )  .
The  उर्जा   भंडारित   in   एटीपी  (  इसके  third phosphate  समूह   is   weakly   बंधुआ  to  the  rest  of   the  molecule  और  is cheaply  टूटा  allowing stronger  bonds   to   रूप  ,  thereby   transferring   उर्जा   लिये  use by  the  cell  )  can then be used to  ड्राइव  processes  requiring  energy  ,  including biosynthesis  ,  locomotion or transportation of molecules  आरपार  cell membranes .
देशों  by  2011  GDP ( nominal ) according to the  सीआईए   संसार   factbook   .
This article  शामिल  a list of countries  in  the  संसार   sorted   by  their gross  घरेलू  product ( GDP )  ,   the   मार्केट  value  of  all  फाइनल  goods  और  services from a nation  in   a  given year .
The GDP  डालर  estimates  प्रस्तुत  here  हैं  calculated at market or government official  एक्सचेंज  rates .
अनेक   economies  which  हैं  not  माना  to be  देशों   (  world ,  the  EU ,  और  some dependent territories ) are included in the  सूचियाँ   क्युकी   वे  appear  in  the  स्त्रोत  .
These  economies  are  नहीं  ranked  in   the   चार्ट  here  ,  but are  सूचीबद्ध   जहाँ   लागू  .
The figures presented here do not  लो  into account  मतभेद   in   the   लागत  of living in different  देशों  ,  और  the results  can   vary  greatly from one  साल   to   another   आधारित   on  fluctuations in the exchange  दरों   of   the   देश  's  करेंसी  .
Such  fluctuations   may   बदलें  a  देश  's  रैंकिंग  from one year to the  अगला   ,   भी   हालांकि  they often make little or no difference to the standard of  जीना   of  its  जनसांख्यिकी  .
Therefore  ये  figures should be used with caution  .
कुछ  countries/regions  may   have   नागरिकों  which are on average  धनवान   .
ये  countries/regions could appear in this list as  having   a  small GDP  .
इस  would be because the  country/region   सूचीबद्ध   रै   a  small population ,  और  therefore  छोटी  total economy ;  the   जीडीपी   is  calculated as the population times the wealth per  capita   .
Comparisons  of   नेशनल  wealth  हैं   भी  frequently  बना  on the  आधार  of purchasing power parity  (  PPP  )  ,  to   समायोजन  for differences in the  लागत  of living in different countries .
(   देखिए   सूची  of countries by GDP ( PPP ) )
PPP  largely  removes the exchange  रेट  problem  ,  but has its  अपना  drawbacks  ;  it  करता   नहीं  reflect the  मान  of economic  आउटपुट  in  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  trade ,  और   it  also requires more estimation  than  nominal GDP .
on   the  whole , PPP per  capita  figures are  अधिक   narrowly  spread than nominal GDP  प्रति  capita  आंकड़े   .
The  पहला   सूची  includes data compiled by the United Nations Statistics  प्रभाग   लिये  2011 .
the  second list  largely   शामिल   आंकड़ा  ( estimate ) compiled by  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   मौद्रिक   निधि   लिये  2012 .
The third list shows the World Bank  's   ज़्यादातर  2011  estimates  ,  और  the fourth list includes mostly 2012 estimates from the CIA World Factbook  .
Lapping is  a  machining  प्रक्रम   ,  in  जिससे   दो   सतहों   हैं   मला  together with  an  abrasive between  उन्हें   ,  by  हाथ  movement or by way of a machine  .
इस   can  take  दो  forms .
The first type  of  lapping (  traditionally  called grinding )  ,  typically involves  रगड़  a  भंगुर   सामग्री   ऐसे  as glass  विरूद्ध  a surface  ऐसे  as  आयरन  or glass itself  (  also  ज्ञात  as  the  `` lap ''  or  grinding  औजार   )   साथ   an  abrasive such as aluminum  ऑक्साइड  , jeweller  's  rouge  ,  optician 's rouge  ,  emery ,  सिलिकॉन  carbide ,  डायमंड  ,  etc.   ,   in  between  उन्हें   .
This produces  microscopic  conchoidal fractures as  the   अक्खड़  rolls about between the  दो  surfaces and removes material from both .
The other  रूप  of  lapping  involves  a  softer material such as pitch or  a  ceramic for  the   गोद   ,   जिससे  is  ``  charged  ''   साथ  the abrasive .
the  lap is then used  to   काटें  a harder material—the  workpiece   .
the   अक्खड़  embeds  भीतर   the  softer material  जिससे  holds  it  and  permits  it  to   स्कोर   आरपार   और   काटें  the harder  सामग्री  .
Taken to a  महीन   सीमा  , this will produce  a  polished surface  ऐसे  as with  a  polishing  cloth   on  an  ऑटोमोबाइल   ,   or  a  पॉलिशिंग   cloth   or  polishing pitch upon glass  or   स्टील   .
लिया   to  the ultimate limit ,  साथ  the aid of accurate interferometry  और  specialized polishing machines or skilled hand polishing , lensmakers  can   उपज   सतहों   कि   हैं   चपटा  to better than 30  nanometers  .
This  is  one  बीसवीं   of   the   wavelength   of  light  इससे   the  commonly  प्रयुक्त  632.8 nm helium neon laser  लाइट  source  .
सतहों   इस   चपटा  can  be   molecularly  bonded ( optically  contacted  ) by bringing them together  अंतर्गत   the  right  शर्तें  .
(  This is not  the  same as  the   wringing   प्रभाव  of Johansson blocks ,  हालांकि  it is  समान  ) .
the   पद  `` America  's  Team  ''   is  a popular  उपनाम  in the United  राज्य   कि   refers  to the Dallas Cowboys in the  नेशनल  Football  लीग   .
the  nickname originated with the  टोली  's 1978 highlight film ,  जहाँ  the narrator opens  साथ  the  following   परिचय   :  The term is  पहचाना  and  प्रायः  used by  मीडिया  outlets  ,  including ESPN  ,  Yahoo  !   ,  HBO Sports ,  और  Sports  illustrated  .
my  Babysitter 's  a  Vampire  (  French : Ma gardienne est un vampire  )   is   a   2011   कनाडाई  television series ,  आधारित  on  the  television  फिल्मी   of   the  same name .
in  Canada  ,   the   श्रेणी  premiered in French on Télétoon on February 28  ,   2011  , in English on Teletoon on March 14  ,  2011  ,   और   on  Disney Channel  in   the  United States on June 27 , 2011  .
the   दिखाएँ  was  निर्मित  by Fresh TV , creators  of  6teen and Total  नाटक   .
the  show follows Ethan Morgan (  मैथ्यू   नाईट   )  , who ,  in  the television film ,  learns  that his babysitter  सारा   (  Vanessa  मॉर्गन  ) is  a  vampire  .
in   the   फिल्मी  , he  learns  he is  समर्थ  to have visions  और   उसके   बेहतरीन   dost  Benny Weir ( Atticus Mitchell  )  is a  spellmaster  .
The  श्रेणी  follows  the  three as they  लो   on  supernatural  शक्तियां  and have  adventures  , with  occasional   सहायता  from  fellow  vampires  रोरी  ( Cameron  कैनेडी   )  and  एरिका   (   केट  Todd ) , while  dealing  with the troubles of regular high school life .
a   दूसरी  season was confirmed  to   प्रारंभ   उत्पादन  in  सितंबर  2011 and it first premiered  on   डिज़्नी   चैनल   on  June  29   ,   2012  , it premiered  on  Teletoon September 6 ,  2012   .
télétoon  started  featuring  season 2 sneak-peak  एपीसोड   on  October  28   ,  2012 and  premiered  it on  जनवरी  10 , 2013
Dodge B  श्रेणी  utility circa 1950  ,  driven  by  Albert  namatjira
A  पिकअप   ट्रक  or  pick-up  ,  प्रायः  simply  referred  to as  a  pickup ,  is   a  light  मोटर   गाडी  with  an  open-top  ,  rear cargo area  (  bed  )  .
in  North  अमेरिका  ,  the   पद  pickup is used for light trucks  साथ  a  हल्का  duty  chassis  and factory built  ,  integrated bed , as well  as  for coupé  यूटिलिटी  vehicles , often  आधारित  on  a  personal car  chassis   ,  but also often on a special dedicated chassi for  ऐसे  use .
Some  देशों  have  उनके  own terms similar  to  pickup , such  as  ute in Australia and New Zealand , or  bakkie  in South  अफ़्रीकी  .
Large pickup  ट्रक  are somewhat rare in  यूरोपीय   ,  where  वैन   और  light lorries are  commonly   प्रयुक्त   लिये   समान  roles .
The President of the  संयुक्त  States  of  America  (  POTUS  )  is  the  head of state and head of government  of  the  संयुक्त  States .
The  अध्यक्ष   लीड  the executive branch of  the   संघीय   सरकारी   और   is   the   commander-in-chief  of the United  राज्य  Armed Forces .
आलेख   ii  of  the  U.S.  संविधान  vests the  कार्यपालिका  power  of   the   संयुक्त  States  in  the  अध्यक्ष  and charges him  साथ   the   निष्पादन  of federal  विधि  , alongside  the  responsibility of appointing federal executive  ,  diplomatic  ,   नियामक  , and judicial officers ,  और  concluding  treaties  with  विदेशी   शक्तियां   ,  with  the   सलाह  and  सहमति   of   the  Senate .
the   अध्यक्ष   is  further empowered to  ग्रान्ट  federal pardons and  reprieves  ,  और  to  convene  and adjourn  either   or  both  घरों  of Congress under extraordinary circumstances  .
Since the  founding  of the  संयुक्त  States , the  शक्ति  of the  अध्यक्ष   और   the   संघीय   सरकारी  have  grown   substantially   और  each modern president , despite possessing  no   औपचारिक  legislative  शक्तियां   परे  signing or vetoing congressionally passed  बिल्स   ,  is  largely  responsible  लिये  dictating  the  legislative agenda  of  his party and the  विदेशी   और   घरेलू  policy of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
The  अध्यक्ष  is frequently  वर्णित   as   the   सबसे   शक्तिशाली  person  in  the world .
The president is indirectly  निर्वाचित   by   the  people  through   the  Electoral College to a four-year  पद  , and  is   एक  of only  दो  nationally  निर्वाचित  federal officers  ,  the other  होने   the  Vice President of  the   संयुक्त  States .
the  Twenty-second Amendment  ,  adopted in  1951  , prohibits  anyone  from  कभी  being elected  to  the presidency  लिये   a  third  पूरा  term  .
it  also  prohibits  a  व्यक्ति  from being elected  to  the presidency  अधिक  than once if that person previously  था   परोसा  as president ,  or  acting president  ,   लिये   अधिक  than two  सालो  of  another   व्यक्ति   's   पद   as  president .
In  सब  , 43 individuals have  परोसा   55   four-year  terms .
On January  20   ,   2009   ,  Barack  ओबामा   became  the 44th and current president  .
on   नवम्बर   6  , 2012 ,  he  was  re-elected  and  is  scheduled to serve until January 20 ,  2017   .
बोतलबंद  mineral  जल
बोतलबंद  water is  पीने  water (  e.g.  , well water ,  आसुत   जल  ,  खनिज  water ,  or  spring water  )   packaged  in plastic  or   कांच   जल  bottles  .
Bottled water may  be  carbonated or  नहीं  .
Sizes range  इससे  small  सिंगल   सेवारत   बोतलों   to   विशाल  carboys for water coolers  .
मैप   of  the  प्रमुख  rivers  ,  lakes , and reservoirs  in   इण्डिया
Map  प्रर्दशित   नदियाँ  and flood prone areas  in  India
नदियाँ   of   इण्डिया   खेल   an   महत्वपूर्ण  role  in  the lives  of  the Indian people .
The river  प्रणालियों   provide  irrigation , potable water , cheap transportation  ,   विद्युत  ,  और   the   livelihoods   लिये  a  विशाल  number  of  people  सब  over the  देश   और   to   ग्रामीण   क्षेत्रों   .
This easily  explains   क्यों  nearly  सब   the  major  शहरों  of India are  स्तिथ  by the  बैंको  of rivers  .
the  rivers also  have   an   महत्वपूर्ण   भूमिका  in Hindu  mythology  and are considered holy by  सब  Hindus in the country .
Seven major rivers along with their numerous tributaries  मेक  up the  नदी   प्रणाली   of   इण्डिया  .
सबसे  of the rivers  डालना  their waters  into  the Bay of Bengal  ;  however  ,  some of  the  rivers whose courses take them  through  the  पश्चिमी  part of the  देश   और  towards  the  east of the  राज्य  of  himachal  Pradesh  खाली   into   the  Arabian Sea .
Parts of  लद्दाख  , northern parts of  the   aravlli  range and the arid parts of the Thar  मरुस्थल  have  अंतर्देशीय  drainage .
Dr.Francis Buchanan surveyed  the   पाठ्यक्रम   of   the  rivers  of  India along with  उनके  tributaries and branches in  1810-11  AD and presented a minute account  of   it   .
the  shifting of  the  courses  और   bed   over   the  centuries is very remarkable  .
Many of the  चैनल्स   उल्लेखित  in that  सर्वेक्षण  have now  become  dead ,  सूखी   or  even extinct .
All  प्रमुख  rivers of  इण्डिया  originate from one of the  तीन  main  watersheds  :
The  हिमालय  and the Karakoram  सीमाएँ
विंध्य  and Satpura ranges  और  Chotanagpur  पठार   in  central  इण्डिया
Sahyadri  or  Western Ghats in western  इण्डिया
The  bretton   वुड्स  system of  मौद्रिक   प्रबन्धन   स्थापित   the   नियम  for commercial and financial  संबंध   among   the  world  's   प्रमुख  industrial states in the mid-20th  सदी   .
the   bretton  Woods  प्रणाली  was the  पहला   उदाहरण  of  a   fully   negotiated   मौद्रिक  order intended to govern monetary  संबंध  among independent nation-states .
तैयारी  to rebuild the international  आर्थिक  system as  संसार   युद्ध   ii   थी  still raging , 730 delegates  इससे   सब  44  अलाइड   राष्ट्र   gathered   at   the  Mount Washington Hotel in Bretton Woods  ,  New  हैम्पशायर  ,  संयुक्त  States , for  the  United Nations  मौद्रिक   और   वित्तीय  Conference .
the   delegates  deliberated during 1–22  जुलाई  1944 , and  हस्ताक्षरित   the  Agreement on  इसके   फाइनल  day  .
सेटिंग  up a system  of   नियम  , institutions ,  और   प्रक्रियाओं   to  regulate the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   मौद्रिक  system , the planners at Bretton  वुड्स  established  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Monetary  निधि   (   imf   )  and the International  बैंको  for Reconstruction and  विकास  ( IBRD ) ,  जिससे  today  is  part  of   the  World Bank Group .
ये   संगठन   became  operational  in  1945  बाद   a  sufficient  क्रमांक   of   देशों   था  ratified  the  agreement .
the   मुख्य   सुविधाएँ  of the Bretton Woods  प्रणाली  were  an  obligation for each  देश  to adopt  a   मौद्रिक  policy  कि  maintained  the  exchange  रेट  by tying  इसके   करेंसी   to  the U.S.  डालर  and the  क्षमता   of  the IMF to  सेतु   अस्थाई   imbalances  of payments .
On 15 August  1971  , the  संयुक्त   राज्य  unilaterally  terminated  convertibility  of  the US  $  to gold .
इस   brought   the  Bretton Woods system to an end and  देखी   the   डालर   become  fiat  करेंसी  .
इस   कार्रवाई   ,  referred  to   as  the  निक्सन   शॉक  ,  निर्मित   the   हालात   in  which the  संयुक्त   राज्य  dollar became  a   आरक्षित   करेंसी  used  by  many  राज्य   .
at   the  same  समय   ,   अनेक  fixed  मुद्राएँ   (  such as GBP  ,  for example )  ,   भी  became  फ़्री  floating .
Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. is an Italian  कम्पनी  that designs  और   manufactures  motorcycles .
headquartered  in  बोलोग्ना  ,  इटली  , Ducati  is  owned  by  Audi through its Italian  subsidiary  Lamborghini  .
a  credit score is a numerical expression based on a statistical analysis  of  a person 's  क्रेडिट  files  ,  to represent the creditworthiness  of  that  व्यक्ति  .
A credit score is primarily  आधारित   on   क्रेडिट  report  सूचना  typically  sourced  from credit  bureaus  .
Lenders , such  as  banks  और   क्रेडिट  card companies  ,   उपयोग  credit  स्कोर  to  evaluate   the   संभावित   रिस्क   posed   by   lending  money to  उपभोक्ता  and to mitigate  नुकसान  due  to  bad  कर्ज़   .
lenders  use credit scores to  determine  who qualifies for  a  loan , at  कया   ब्याज  rate , and what credit limits  .
Lenders also  उपयोग   क्रेडिट  scores to determine which customers  हैं  likely to bring in  the  most revenue  .
the  use  of   क्रेडिट  or  पहचान  scoring prior to authorizing access or  granting  credit is an implementation of a  विश्वसनीय  system .
Credit  स्कोरिंग   is  not limited to banks  .
Other  संगठन  , such  as  mobile phone companies  ,  insurance companies ,  जमींदार   ,   और   सरकारी  departments employ  the   वही  techniques .
क्रेडिट  scoring also  रै  a lot of  ओवरलैप   साथ  data mining  ,  which  उपयोग  many  समान  techniques  .
These techniques combine  हज़ारों  of  कारकों  but they  हैं   अधिक   or  less  समान  or  the   वही   .
the  seven SI  आधार  units  और  the interdependency of their definitions : for example  ,  to  निकालें  the definition  of  the metre from the speed  of   लाइट  , the definition of the second must be  ज्ञात   जबकि   the  ampere and candela are both dependent on the definition of energy which  in   फेरे   is   पारिभाषित   in  terms of length  ,   द्रव्यमान   और   समय  .
The International System of Units (  si  ) defines seven units of measure  as  a  मौलिक   नियत  from  जिससे  all  अन्य   si   इकाई   हैं  derived  .
ये   si   आधार  units and  उनके   शारीरिक   quantities   are:
metre  लिये   लंबाई   (   us  English : meter )
किलोग्राम  for mass (  नोट  :  नहीं  the gram  )
दूसरी   लिये   समय
ampere   लिये   इलेक्ट्रिक  current
kelvin for  तापमान
candela   लिये  luminous intensity
mole for the  राशि   of  substance .
The SI base quantities form  a  set of  mutually  independent  आयाम   as   जरूरी  by dimensional  विश्लेषण   commonly  employed in  विज्ञान  and  प्रौद्योगिकी  .
however   ,  in a given realization  of   ये  units they  may  well  be  interdependent  ,  i.e  .   पारिभाषित  in terms  of  each other  .
the   names  of SI  इकाई  are written  in  lowercase characters  (  the 'degree  सेल्सियस  '  meets  this  नियम  , as  'degree  '  is   the   ईकाई  ,  और  'Celsius '  is  a modifier ) .
the   प्रतीकों  of  इकाई   हैं   लिखा  in lowercase (  e.g   .  metre has the  प्रतीक  m )  ,  except  कि  symbols  लिये  units named after  व्यक्तियों  are written with an  आरंभिक  capital  अक्षर  ( e.g.  ,  the  हर्ट्ज़   रै  the uppercase symbol Hz )  .
Many  अन्य   इकाई   ,  such  as   the   लीटर  ( US English :  लीनियर  ) , are formally not  भाग   of  the  si  ,  लकिन  are  स्वीकृत  for use  साथ   si   .
Monument  canyon
Colorado National  स्मारक  ( locally referred to  as  The  स्मारक  ) is  a  part of the  नेशनल   पार्क   सेवा  near the city of  ग्रैंड   जंक्शन   ,  Colorado .
spectacular  canyons cut  गहन  into  sandstone  and even granite–gneiss–schist rock formations , in  कुछ   क्षेत्रों   .
इस  is an area of desert land high on  the  Colorado Plateau ,  साथ   पिनियन  and  juniper   वनों  on the  पठार   .
The park hosts a  चौड़ी  range of  वन्यजीव  , including  red-tailed   चीलों  and golden eagles  ,   ravens   ,  jays  ,  desert bighorn sheep ,  और   coyotes  .
क्रियाएँ  include  चढ़ाई  ,  horseback  riding ,  सड़क   bicycling  , and  दर्शनीय   ड्राइव   ;   a  visitor center  on   the   वेस्ट   पक्ष   contains  a natural  इतिहास  museum  और   तोहफा   दूकान  .
वहीँ  are magnificent views from  trails  and the  रिम  Rock  ड्राइव  , which  हवाएँ  along  the  plateau .
Nearby  हैं  the  किताब   cliffs   ,  and  the   largest   flat-topped  mountain in  the   संसार  ,  the   ग्रैंड   mesa   .
इसके  feature  आकर्षण  is Monument Canyon  ,  which  रनों  the  चौडाई  of the park  ,   और  includes rock formations such as Independence Monument  ,  the Kissing Couple  ,  and Coke Ovens  .
the   स्मारक   शामिल  20,500  एकड़  (  32   वर्गाकार  miles  )  , much of  जिससे  has been recommended  to  Congress  लिये  designation as wilderness .
बाएँ  to  सही  :  यूटिलिटी  Uniform ,  ब्लू   पोशाक  Uniform  ,  Service Uniform ,  और  Evening  पोशाक  uniforms
the   वर्दी   of   the  United  राज्य   समुद्री  Corps  serve   to  distinguish Marines from members  of  other  सेवाएं  .
Among current uniforms in  the  United  राज्य   हथियारबंद  Forces  ,  the  marines   '  uniforms have  महरूम  in service the longest .
The Marine  पोशाक   ब्लू  uniform has , with  few  changes ,  महरूम  worn in essentially  इसके   वर्तमान   रूप  since the 19th century  .
North American telephone area  कोड   419  and  567  serve the  उत्तरपश्चिम  quadrant of the U.S. state  of  Ohio .
the   largest  city served by these  क्षेत्रफल   कोड  is  टोलेडो  ( and its  उपनगरों  of  हॉलैंड   ,   maumee   ,   northwood  ,  ऑरेगॉन   ,   ओटावा   पहाड़ियाँ   ,  Perrysburg , Rossford ,  sylvania   ,   swanton  , Waterville  ,   और   whitehouse  ) .
Other  शहरों  served by these area  कोड  include  एडीए  , Ashland  ,  Bellevue , Bluffton , Bowling Green  ,  Bryan , Bucyrus  ,   celina   ,  Clyde  ,  Crestline , Defiance  ,   delphos   ,   एडिसन   ,  Erastus  ,  Findlay  ,   fostoria  ,  fremont  ,  galion  ,  kenton   ,  Lima , Mansfield ,  माउंट  Gilead , Napoleon ,  नॉरवॉक   ,   ओक  Harbor , Port  क्लिंटन  , Sandusky , Shelby , St. Marys  ,  Tiffin  ,   अपर  Sandusky  ,   वैन  Wert , Wapakoneta  ,   wauseon  , Willard  .
अन्य   क्षेत्रों   परोसा   शामिल  the  झील  Erie Islands north  of  Port Clinton  और   वेस्ट   of  Sandusky .
The main area  कोड  , 419 ,  थी  created as one of  the  original  क्षेत्रफल  codes in  अक्तूबर  1947 ;  the  overlay area code  567  was  निर्मित  on January 1  ,  2002 .
Despite the  उपस्थिति  of Toledo ,  the  state 's fourth-largest  नगर  , 419  थी  the last of Ohio 's original  चार  area codes to  have   महरूम   विभाजित  or  overlaid  .
Mickey Leroy Gilley  (  born March 9 , 1936 )  is   an  American country music singer and musician .
Although he started  आउट   गायन  straight-up country and western  सामग्री   in   the  1970s , he moved  towards   a   अधिक  pop  -friendly   ध्वनि  in the 1980s , bringing  उसे  further  कामयाबी   on  not just  the  country  चार्ट  , but the pop charts as well .
among  his  biggest   हिट्स  are `` Room Full of Roses  ,   ''  `` Do  n't  the  लड़कियों  All Get  prettier  at Closing Time , '' and the remake of the Soul  hit  ``  स्टैंड  by Me  ``   .
he  is also  the  cousin of Jerry Lee Lewis  ,  Carl McVoy  ,   जिम   gilley   और  Jimmy Swaggart  .
According  to  the Federal Aviation Administration  ,  Gilley is  a   licensed   पायलट  ,  जो  holds  an  instrument rating with  वाणिज्यिक  pilot privileges for  multi-engine   airplanes  , as  खूब  as  निजी   पायलट  privileges  लिये   सिंगल  engine  वायुयान  .
the  September 11 attacks  (  also  referred   to   as  September 11 , September 11th , or 9/11 )  यहूद  a series of  चार  coordinated  आतंकवादी   हमले  launched by the Islamic  आतंकवादी  group al-Qaeda upon  the  United States in New York City  और  the  वॉशिंगटन  ,  d.C.  area  on  September 11 , 2001  .
Four  यात्री   airliners  were  hijacked  by  19   al-qaeda  terrorists so they could be flown  into  buildings in  आत्महत्या  attacks  .
Two  of  those planes ,  अमरीकी  Airlines Flight 11  और   संयुक्त  Airlines  उड़ान  175  ,   यहूद  crashed into  the   उत्तर   और   दक्षिण  towers , respectively  ,   of   the  World Trade  बीच  complex  in   नई   यॉर्क   नगर   .
Within two  घंटों   ,  both towers collapsed  साथ  debris and  the   resulting  fires causing partial or complete collapse of  सब   अन्य   इमारतें   in  the WTC  जटिल  ,  as   खूब   as  major damage to ten other large surrounding structures .
A third plane ,  अमरीकी  Airlines  उड़ान   77  ,  थी   क्रैश  into  the   प्रस्तुतीकरण   (  the headquarters of  the  United  राज्य  Department  of  Defense )  ,   अग्रणी  to a  आंशिक  collapse in its western side .
the  fourth  प्लेन   ,   संयुक्त  Airlines Flight  93   ,  was  targeted   at   the   संयुक्त  States Capitol in Washington , D.C. , but crashed into a  फ़ील्ड  near  shanksville  , Pennsylvania , after its  यात्री   आजमाया   to  overcome  the   hijackers  .
In total , almost  3,000   लोगों  died in the  हमले   ,   सहित  the 227  नागरिकों  and 19  hijackers  aboard  the  four planes .
Suspicion quickly fell  on  al-Qaeda .
Although  the  group 's  नेता  , Osama  बिन  Laden ,  initially  denied  कोई   भागीदारी   ,   in   2004  he claimed responsibility  लिये  the attacks .
al-qaeda  and  बिन  Laden  cited  U.S. support of  इसराईल  , the  उपस्थिति  of U.S. troops in  सऊदी   अरब  ,  और  sanctions  विरूद्ध   इराकी   as   motives   लिये   the  attacks .
The  संयुक्त   राज्य   responded   to   the   हमले   by  launching  the   युद्ध  on Terror  और  invading Afghanistan  to  depose the  तालिबान  , which had harbored  al-qaeda   .
Many countries strengthened  उनके  anti-terrorism legislation and expanded  विधि   प्रवर्तन  powers .
having  evaded capture for  सालो  , bin  लादेन  was  स्तिथ  and killed  by  U.S. forces  in   may  2011  .
the   विनाश   of  the  जुड़वा   मीनारें  and  अन्य   गुण  caused  गंभीर   क्षति  to the  अर्थव्यवस्था  of Lower  मैनहटन  and  था  a significant effect on global  बाज़ार   .
क्लीनअप   of  the World Trade Center  साईट  was completed  in  May 2002  ,  and  the  Pentagon  थी  repaired  भीतर  a year .
Numerous  memorials   have   महरूम  constructed  ,  including  the   नेशनल   सितंबर   11  Memorial  &   संग्रहालय  in New York  ,   the  Pentagon Memorial , and  the  Flight  93  National Memorial  in   पेन्सिलवेनिया   .
After  a  lengthy  विलंब  , the One World  व्यापार   बीच  is  अपेक्षित  to be completed  at   मैदान   शून्य  in  नई  York City  in  2013 .
ढूंढना  Nemo  is   a   2003  American  computer-animated  comedy-drama  एडवेंचर  film  लिखा  and  निर्देशित  by  एंड्रयू   stanton  , released by Walt Disney  तस्वीरें  , and the  पांचवां   फिल्मी   उत्पादित   by  Pixar  एनिमेशन  Studios .
it   tells   the  story of the over-protective  clownfish   नामित   marlin  ( Albert  ब्रूक्स  ) who ,  साथ   साथ  a  राजसी  tang named  dory  ( Ellen  degeneres  )  ,   खोज  for  उसके  abducted  बेटे  Nemo ( Alexander Gould ) all the  रास्ता  to  सिडनी   harbour  .
Along  the  way ,  marlin   learns  to take  risks  and let Nemo take care  of   खुद  .
It  is  Pixar 's  पहला   फिल्मी   to   be  released  in  cinemas in the northern hemisphere  गर्मियाँ   .
the  film was re-released for  the  first  समय  in  3d  on  सितंबर  14 , 2012  ,   और   it  was released on Blu-ray  on  December  4   ,  2012 .
A sequel  ,  Finding  dory  , is currently in development , set to be  released   on  November 25  ,   2015  .
The film received universal critical acclaim and won  the  Academy Award for Best Animated  विशेषता   ,  and was nominated  in  three more categories  सहित  Best Original Screenplay .
it  was the second highest-grossing film of  2003   ,  earning  a  total of $ 921 million worldwide  .
ढूंढना  Nemo is also the best-selling  dvd   of  all time  ,  with over 40 million copies  बेची  as  of  2006 ,  और  was the highest-grossing G-rated film  of  all time before  पिक्चर्स   's  own Toy  स्टोरी  3  overtook  it .
it  is  भी  the 23rd  highest-grossing   फिल्मी  of  सब   समय  , as  खूब  as the  3rd  highest-grossing  एनिमेटेड  film .
In  2008   ,  the  अमरीकी   फिल्मी  Institute named  it   the  tenth  महानतम  animated film ever made during  उनके   शीर्ष   10   .
The sixth  ऋतु  of  अमेरिका   's  Best  नृत्य   क्रू  , also known as America 's  बेहतरीन  Dance  क्रू  : Season of  the  Superstars , premiered on April 7  ,   2011   और  concluded on  जून   5  ,  2011  .
auditions  were held in  चार  cities  इससे  January  21  through  फ़रवरी   5  :  शिकागो  , Houston , New York , and  लॉस   एंजिल्स   .
This season takes a different route from  पास्ट  seasons .
The crews must perform  to  the music of one specific  कलाकार   प्रत्येक   सप्ताह   ,   सहित  Rihanna  ,  Lil  वेन  ,  और  other popular stars .
इस  season also  सुविधाएँ  special guest appearances  by  various  म्यूज़िक   हस्तियाँ   सहित   जस्टिन  Bieber ,  the   ब्लैक  Eyed  मटर  ,  कैटी  Perry  ,  Kesha , Nicki  minaj  , and  kanye   वेस्ट  .
Dominic `` D-Trix  ''  Sandoval  ,  a former member  of   क्वेस्ट  Crew  ,  the winner of  the   तीसरा  season  of  America 's Best  नृत्य  Crew  ,   joins   returning  judges  लील  Mama and JC  chasez   as  the newest  न्यायधीश   .
in   the  season  finale   ,  I aM  me  was declared  the  winner of Season  6   और  received  the   $   100,000  ( USD  )  prize .
in  the  संयुक्त  States  ,  Social  सुरक्षा  refers  to  the  old-age  , Survivors , and  विकलांगता  Insurance ( OASDI )  संघीय  program .
The  असली   सोशल   सुरक्षा   अधिनियम   (   1935  ) and  the   वर्तमान  version  of   the  Act , as amended , encompass several social  welfare   और  social  बीमे   कार्यक्रम  .
Social  सुरक्षा   is  primarily funded through dedicated  payroll   कर  called Federal Insurance  योगदान  Act tax (  fica  )  .
Tax deposits  हैं  formally entrusted to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund  ,  the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund , the Federal  हॉस्पिटल  Insurance  विश्वास   निधि  , or  the  Federal  अनुपूरक   चिकित्सा   बीमे  Trust  निधि  which comprise the  सोशल  Security Trust Fund  .
Upward redistribution  of   आय  is  जिम्मेदार  for about 43  %   of   the  projected  सोशल  Security  shortfall  over the  अगला   75  years .
According to  अर्थशास्त्री  Martin  feldstein   ,   the  combined spending  लिये  all  सोशल   बीमे  programs  in   2003   गठित   37   %  of  सरकारी  expenditure  और   7  % of the gross domestic product .
Social  सुरक्षा  is currently  अनुमानित  to keep roughly  40   प्रतिशत  of all  अमेरिकी  age 65 or  पुरानी  out of poverty .
The Social Security Administration is  headquartered  in Woodlawn  ,  Maryland ,  बस  west  of   बाल्टीमोर  .
The alcohol by volume  दिखाया  on  a  bottle  of   absinthe   .
Alcohol  by  volume ( abbreviated as  abv  , abv , or alc/vol ) is a  मानक  measure  of   कैसा   much   दारू  ( ethanol  )   is   contained  in  an   alcoholic  beverage ( expressed  as   a  percentage  of  total volume  )   .
The ABV standard  is  used worldwide .
In some countries  ,   दारू   by  volume is  referred   to  as degrees  gay-lussac  ( after  the  French  केमिस्ट  Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac  )   .
लॉरेल   खोखला   is   a   गाँव  in the Town  of  Oyster Bay in  nassau  County , New York in the  संयुक्त   राज्य   .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 1,952  at   the   2010  census  .
चार्ल्स  John Huffam  डिकेंस  ( ; 7  फ़रवरी  1812 –  9   जून  1870  )  was  an   अंग्रेज़ी   लेखक   और  social critic .
he  created  कुछ   of  the world 's most memorable fictional  वर्ण  and  is  generally  regarded  as the greatest novelist  of  the Victorian  काल   .
During  उसके  life , his works  enjoyed   unprecedented  fame , and  by  the twentieth century  उसके   साहित्यिक   प्रतिभाशाली  was  broadly  acknowledged  by  critics  और  scholars .
उसके  novels and short  कहानियां  continue  to   be   widely  popular .
born  in  portsmouth  ,  इंग्लैण्ड  , Dickens  बाएँ   स्कूल  to  कार्य  in  a  factory after  उसके  father was thrown  into   कर्जदार  ' prison .
हालांकि  he had little  औपचारिक  education ,  उसके   जल्दी   impoverishment   drove  him to succeed .
Over his career  he   संपादित  a weekly journal for  20  years  ,  wrote 15  novels  ,  5  novellas and  सैंकड़ों   of   छोटी   कहानियां   और  non-fiction  आलेख  ,  lectured  and  performed   extensively   ,   थी   an  indefatigable letter  लेखक  , and campaigned vigorously for children  's   अधिकारों  ,  शिक्षा  ,  और   अन्य   सोशल  reforms  .
डिकेंस  sprang to fame with  the  1836  सीरियल  publication of The Pickwick Papers .
Within  a  few  सालो   he  had become an international literary celebrity  ,  famous  लिये  his  ह्यूमर   ,  satire , and  keen  observation of character  और   समाज   .
His  novels  ,  सबसे  published  in   मासिक  or weekly  किश्तों  ,  pioneered  the  सीरियल  publication of narrative  fiction  , which  became   the   प्रबल  Victorian mode for novel  प्रकाशन   .
the  instalment format allowed  डिकेंस   to  evaluate his  दर्शक  's  प्रतिक्रिया   ,  and  he  often modified his  प्लाट   और   अक्षर  development based on  ऐसे  feedback .
लिये  example ,  जब  his  बीवी  's  chiropodist   expressed  distress at the way Miss  mowcher   in  David Copperfield seemed to reflect her  disabilities  , Dickens went  on   to  improve the character with positive lineaments  .
fagin   in   ओलिवर  Twist apparently mirrors  the  famous  बाड़  Ikey  सुलेमान  ; His caricature  of  Leigh Hunt  in  the figure  of  Mr Skimpole in  bleak  House was likewise toned  bas   on   सलाह  from  कुछ  of his  मित्रों   ,  as they  पढ़ा   एपीसोड  .
In the same novel ,  दोनो  Lawrence Boythorne and  मूनी   the   beadle   हैं   drawn   इससे  real  जीवन  – Boythorne from Walter  जंगली  Landor and Mooney from  'looney   '   ,  a beadle at Salisbury Square  .
His  भूखंड  were  carefully   constructed   ,   और  Dickens often wove  in  elements  इससे  topical  कार्यक्रम  into his  कहानियां   .
masses   of  the illiterate  ग़रीब   chipped  in  ha'pennies  to  have   प्रत्येक   नई   मासिक  episode read to  उन्हें  , opening up and inspiring a new class of readers .
Dickens  थी  regarded as  the  literary  colossus   of  his age  .
उसके   1843  novella ,  a  Christmas  कैरोल   ,   is  one of  the   सबसे  influential  works  ever  लिखा  , and  it  remains popular  और  continues to  inspire  adaptations in every artistic genre  .
His creative genius has been praised by  fellow  writers—from  leo   टालस्टाय  to G.  K.   चेस्टरटन  and George Orwell —for its realism ,  कॉमेडी  ,  गद्य   स्टाइल   ,  unique characterisations ,  और   सोशल  criticism .
On  the  other hand Oscar  वाइल्ड   ,  Henry James  और  Virginia  woolf  complained  of  a  कमी  of psychological  गहराई  , loose writing  ,  and  a   रग  of saccharine sentimentalism .
Martin  लूथर  King and other civil rights leaders  in  front of the  प्रतिमा  of Abraham  lincoln  , August 28  ,  1963
The civil rights movement was a  श्रेणी  of worldwide  राजनैतिक   आंदोलनों   लिये  equality before the law  कि   peaked  in the 1960s .
In many situations it  took   the   रूप   of   अभियान  of  सिविल  resistance aimed  at  achieving change by nonviolent forms  of   प्रतिरोध  .
in   कुछ   परिस्थितियों  it was accompanied  ,  or  followed  ,  by  civil  अशांति  and  हथियारबंद  rebellion  .
the   प्रक्रम  was  long  and tenuous in  अनेक  countries  ,  and many  of   ये  movements did not fully  achieve  their  लक्ष्य  although ,  the  efforts  of  these  आंदोलनों  did  सीसे  to  सुधार   in  the legal  अधिकारों  of previously oppressed groups  of  people  .
the  main aim  of   the  civil  अधिकारों   गति  included ,  और  include ,  ensuring  that  the   अधिकारों  of  सब  people are equally protected  by   the   विधि  ,  सहित  the rights of  अल्पसंख्यकों   .
Civil rights movements ranging  इससे   the   वैश्विक   lgbt   अधिकारों  movement  to  the  वैश्विक  Women 's  अधिकारों   गति  to  विभिन्न  racial  अल्पसंख्यक   अधिकारों  movements  around  the world continue .
The  2010  FIFA World Cup  थी  the  19th  FIFA World Cup ,  the  world championship for men 's national association football teams  .
It took place  in   दक्षिण  Africa  इससे  11 June  to  11 July 2010 .
the   bidding  process for hosting  the   टूर्नामेंट  finals  थी  open only to African nations ; in 2004 , the international football  संघ  , FIFA , selected South  अफ़्रीकी  over  मिश्र  and Morocco to become the first African nation to host  the  finals .
The matches  यहूद   निभाई   in  ten stadiums in nine host  शहरों   around  the  देश  ,  साथ   the   फाइनल  played  at   the   सॉकर  City stadium  in   दक्षिण   अफ़्रीकी  's  largest   नगर   ,   जोहान्सबर्ग  .
Thirty-two  टीमों  were selected for participation  via   a   विश्वव्यापी   योग्यता  tournament  कि  began  in   अगस्त  2007 .
In  the  first round  of  the tournament finals , the teams  competed  in  round-robin   समूह  of four teams  लिये  points  ,   साथ  the top  दो  teams in  प्रत्येक  group  proceeding  .
These  सोलह  teams advanced to the  नॉकआउट  stage ,  जहाँ  three rounds of play decided which  टीमों   होता   participate   in  the  फाइनल  .
in  the final , Spain  ,  the European champions ,  पराजित   third-time   finalists  the Netherlands 1–0  बाद   अतिरिक्त  time , with  आन्द्रेस   iniesta  's  लक्ष्य  in  the   116th  minute  giving  Spain  उनके   पहला  world  शीर्षक   ,  becoming  the   आठवीं   स्वदेश  to win the  टूर्नामेंट  ,  और  the  पहला  European nation to win  the  tournament outside its  घर   महाद्वीप  .
Host nation South Africa  ,  2006 world  champions  Italy  और  2006  runners-up  France were  सब   eliminated   in  the first  गोलाकार  of  the  tournament  .
It was the first  समय   कि  the  होस्ट  were eliminated in the first  गोलाकार  .
New  जीलैंड   साथ   उनके   तीन   draws  were  the   तभी   अपराजित   टोली   in   the  tournament ,  लकिन  were  भी  eliminated in  the   पहला  round .
the  McMuffin is a family  of   नाश्ता  sandwiches in  विभिन्न   आकार  and  configurations   ,  sold by  the  fast-food restaurant  कड़ी  McDonald 's .
The  अंडा  McMuffin is  the  signature breakfast sandwich ; it  थी  invented  by  the  लेट   मैकडोनाल्ड  's  वाल  Herb  पीटरसन  in the late  1960s  and was  introduced   देशभर  in  1972  .
जॉन  Lennon was  an   अंग्रेज़ी  musician  जो   gained   विश्वव्यापी  fame  as  one of the  संस्थापकों  of The Beatles  ,   लिये  his  subsequent  solo  करियर  , and  लिये  his  राजनैतिक   सक्रियता   और   शांतिवाद  .
he  was shot by  चिह्नित   दाउद   chapman   at   the  entrance of the building where he  जिया  ,  the  Dakota ,  in  New  यॉर्क   नगर  on 8 December  1980   .
Lennon had just returned from Record Plant  स्टुडियो   साथ   उसके  wife  ,   योको  Ono .
लेनन   थी  pronounced dead on arrival  at  St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital  बीच  , where it was  stated   कि  nobody  could  have lived for  अधिक  than a few minutes after sustaining such injuries  .
Shortly after local news stations  reported   लेनन  's death ,  crowds  gathered  at  Roosevelt  हॉस्पिटल  and in front  of   the  Dakota .
लेनन   थी  cremated on  10  December  1980  at the  ferncliff   कब्रिस्तान   in  Hartsdale  ,  New  यॉर्क  ;  the   राख  were given to  ओनो   ,  who chose  नहीं  to  थाम  a funeral  लिये  him .
the   पहला  report of Lennon 's  मौत   to  a U.S. national  दर्शक  was  घोषित   by  Howard Cosell  ,   on  ABC 's Monday Night Football  .
नई   ऑरलियन्स   (   or   ,  locally or ;  )  is a major  संयुक्त   राज्य   बंदरगाहों   और   the   largest   नगर   और  metropolitan area  in   the   राज्य   of  Louisiana  .
the  population  of   the  city  थी  343,829 as  of   the  2010 U.S.  जनसांख्यिकी  .
The New  ऑरलियन्स   महानगर   क्षेत्रफल  ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner  महानगर   सांख्यिकीय  Area ) had  a  population of  1,167,764   in   2010  and was the  46th  largest  in  the  संयुक्त  States .
The New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined  सांख्यिकीय  Area  ,   a   larger   व्यापार   क्षेत्रफल  , had a 2010 population of 1,214,932 .
The  नगर   is   नामित  after  orléans  , a  नगर  located on  the  Loire River in Centre  ,  France  ,   और  is well  ज्ञात   लिये  its  पृथक  French  क्रियोल  architecture  ,   as   खूब  as its cross-cultural  और  multilingual  विरासत  .
New  ऑरलियन्स  is also famous for its  भोजन   ,   म्यूज़िक  ( particularly  as  the  जन्मस्थान   of   जैज़   )  , and  इसके   सालाना  celebrations  और  festivals  ,  most  notably  Mardi  ग्रा  .
The city is  प्रायः  referred  to  as the  ``  most unique '' in America .
नई   ऑरलियन्स  is located  in   southeastern   louisiana   ,  straddling the Mississippi  नदी  .
The  नगर  and Orleans  मोहल्ला  ( ) are .
The city  और  parish are  bounded  by  the   parishes  of  st.   tammany  to the  उत्तर   ,  St. Bernard to the east ,  plaquemines   to   the  south and  जेफरसन   to  the  दक्षिण  and west  .
झील  Pontchartrain , part  of  which is included in  the  city  हद  , lies to the north  और  Lake Borgne  झूठ  to  the  east .
the   संयुक्त  States presidential  चुनाव   of   1968  was the  46th   quadrennial  presidential election  ,  held on Tuesday ,  नवम्बर  5 , 1968  .
the  Republican nominee , former  vice-president  Richard Nixon  ,   जीती  the election over the Democratic  nominee  ,  लाज़िम  Vice-President Hubert  humphrey  .
निक्सन  ran  on  a campaign that promised to  restore  law  और  order to the nation  's  cities , torn by  दंगे  and  अपराधों  .
विश्लेषकों  have  argued  the election  of   1968  is a realigning  चुनाव   as   it  permanently disrupted the  नई  Deal Coalition  कि   था   वर्चस्व  presidential politics  लिये  36 years  .
coming  four  सालो   बाद  Democrat  lyndon  B. Johnson  जीती   in  a  ऐतिहासिक  landslide  ,  the election saw the incumbent  अध्यक्ष  forced out of  the  race and a Republican  निर्वाचित  for the first  समय  in twelve  सालो   .
it  was a wrenching national experience , conducted  दौरान   a  year  of  violence that included  the  assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther  किंग   ,   jr.   ,  and  subsequent   रेस   दंगे   आरपार   the   स्वदेश   ,   the  assasination of Democratic  अध्यक्षीय  candidate  रॉबर्ट   F.  Kennedy , widespread opposition to  the   वियतनाम   युद्ध  across  विश्वविद्यालयों   campuses   ,  and  हिंसक  confrontations between  पुलिस   और  anti-war  प्रदर्शनकारियों  at  the   1968  Democratic  नेशनल   सम्मेलन  as  the  Democratic party split again and  again   .
The  चुनाव  featured the strongest third party  प्रयत्न  since 1912 by former Alabama Governor George  वालेस  , a  डेमोक्रेट  .
Because  वालेस  's  अभियान   opposed   संघीय   हस्तक्षेप  in the South to  समाप्त   स्कूल   पृथक्करण   ,   he  carried the Deep South and ran  खूब  in ethnic industrial  जिले   in  the  उत्तर   .
इस  was the last election in which New York  था   the  most votes  in   the  electoral college  (  43  मत  )  .
After the 1970  जनसांख्यिकी   ,   कैलिफ़ोर्निया   gained   the  most  चुनावी  votes  और  has remained the most populous  राज्य  since then  .
इस  is  the   नवीनतम  election  जहाँ  a  अध्यक्षीय  ticket won  बगैर   carrying  the vice  अध्यक्षीय  candidate 's  घर  state .
करक   (  ;  भी  known as  garak  , Garrak  ,  and  gorg  ) is  a  village in  gamasiyab  Rural  ज़िला  , in  the  Central District of Nahavand County ,  हमादान  Province  ,   इरान  .
At  the  2006  जनसांख्यिकी  , its  जनसांख्यिकी   थी   294  ,  in  65  परिवारों  .
कर्ट   's   हस्ताक्षर
Kurt  डोनाल्ड   कोबेन  (  फ़रवरी   20  , 1967  –  April  5  , 1994 ) was an  अमरीकी  musician and artist  ,   बेहतरीन  known as  the  lead  सिंगर   ,   guitarist  and primary songwriter of  the   grunge  band  निर्वाण  .
Cobain formed Nirvana  साथ   krist  Novoselic in  एबरडीन  , Washington in 1985  और   स्थापित   it   as  part  of  the Seattle music scene , having its  डेब्यू  album Bleach released on the  स्वतंत्र   रिकार्ड   लेबल  Sub Pop in  1989  .
After  हस्ताक्षर   साथ   प्रमुख   लेबल  DGC Records  ,   the  band found  भेदन  success  साथ  ``  खुश्बू   जैसे  Teen  स्पिरिट  ``  इससे   इसके  second album Nevermind (  1991  ) .
following  the  कामयाबी   of  Nevermind , Nirvana was  labeled  ``  the  flagship band '' of Generation X  ,   और  Cobain hailed  as  ``  the  spokesman  of   a  generation ''  .
Cobain , however  ,  was often uncomfortable and  कुंठित  , believing his  संदेश  and artistic  दृष्टि  to have  महरूम  misinterpreted by the public  ,  with his personal  मुद्दे  often subject to media attention  .
He challenged Nirvana 's  दर्शक  with its final studio album In Utero ( 1993 )  .
During the  पिछला  years of his  जीवन  ,  कोबेन  struggled with heroin addiction  ,   बीमारी  and  अवसाद  .
he   भी  had difficulty  coping  with  उसके  fame and public  चित्र   ,  and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding  खुद  and  उसके  wife , musician  कोर्टनी   प्रेम  .
on  April  8  , 1994 , Cobain was  मिला  dead at his home in  सिएटल  ,  the   शिकार   of  what  थी   officially   शासित  a suicide  by   a  self-inflicted shotgun wound  to  the head  .
the   हालातों   of  his  मौत  at  आयु   27  have become a  टॉपिक  of public  fascination  and debate  .
Since  उनके   डेब्यू  ,  निर्वाण   ,  with  कोबेन  as a songwriter , has sold over 25 million  एल्बम   in   the  U.S.  ,   और   over  50 million  विश्वव्यापी   .
A  millwright  is a  craftsman  or tradesman engaged  साथ   the   निर्माण  and  मेंटेनेंस  of machinery  .
More  generally   in   the  English speaking world ,  जल्दी  millwrights were specialist  बढ़ई   जो   erected   मशीने  used in agriculture ,  खाना  processing and processing lumber and  पेपर  .
in  the early  भाग   of  the  औद्योगिक   क्रान्ति  ,  उनके  skills were pressed into service building the  earliest  powered textile  मिलों   .
Modern  millwrights  work with  स्टील   और  other materials  in   जोड   to   लकडी  and must often combine the skills of  अनेक  skilled trades  in  order  to  successfully fabricate industrial  मशीनरी   or   to   इकट्ठे   मशीने  from  pre-fabricated  parts .
The modern millwright must also be able to read blueprints and  अन्य   schematics  to  सहायता  him in the  निर्माण  of  जटिल   प्रणालियों  .
Millwrights are  अक्सर   unionized  ,  साथ  around  45   %  unionized in  the  US , although experienced millwrights often  नियत   themselves  up as independent  ठेकेदारों   .
The Adjustment Bureau is  a  2011 American romantic action  थ्रिलर  film  loosely  based on the  फिलिप  K.  लंड  short  स्टोरी   ,  ``  समायोजन  Team  ``   .
The  फिल्मी   थी  written and  निर्देशित  by George Nolfi  और   सितारों  Matt Damon  और   एमिली  Blunt .
The  डाल   भी  includes  एंथोनी   mackie  , John  slattery   ,  Michael Kelly , and Terence  स्टैम्प  .
the  score was composed by  थामस  Newman  ,   साथ   दो  songs by  रिचर्ड   ashcroft   (  `` Future 's Bright  ''   लिये   the   खोलने   अनुक्रम   ;  `` Are You Ready ?  ''  for the  closing  credits )  .
सोडियम  azide  is  the inorganic compound with the  सूत्र   nan3   .
इस  colorless salt  is  the  gas-forming   घटक   in  many  car  airbag systems  .
It is used  लिये  the  तैयारी   of  other  azide  compounds .
it   is  an  ionic  substance , is highly  घुलनशील   in   जल   ,   और  is very acutely toxic  .
Double  रेनबो   और   supernumerary  rainbows on  the   अंदर   of   the  primary  चाप  .
the  shadow  of   the  photographer  's  head on  the  bottom  marks  the centre  of  the rainbow circle ( antisolar point ) .
A  रेनबो  is  an   ऑप्टिकल  and meteorological phenomenon  कि  is caused by  प्रतिबिंब  of light in water droplets in  the  Earth  's  atmosphere , resulting in a  वर्णक्रम  of light  appearing   in   the  sky .
it   takes  the form of  a   multicoloured  arc  .
Rainbows  caused   by  sunlight always appear in the section  of  sky directly opposite the  सूर्य  .
in  a  ``  primary  रेनबो  '' ,  the   चाप  shows red on the  बाहरी  part and  बैंगनी   on   the   भीतरी   पक्ष   .
इस   रेनबो  is caused by light  होने   refracted  while entering a  droplet  of water ,  तब   reflected  inside  on  the back  of  the droplet and  refracted  again when leaving  it  .
In a  दोगुना  rainbow , a  दूसरी   चाप   is  seen  बाहर  the  प्राथमिक  arc ,  और   रै  the  अनुक्रम   of  its colours reversed ,  रेड   facing  toward  the  other one ,  in  both  rainbows   .
इस  second rainbow is  caused   by  light reflecting twice  अंदर   जल  droplets .
the  Conservative Party ,  officially  the Conservative and  यूनियनिस्ट  Party  और  colloquially referred  to  as the Tory Party or the Tories , is  a   centre-right  political party in the United Kingdom that espouses the philosophies  of   कोसा   और  British  unionism   .
it  is the largest political party  in   the  United Kingdom , being  the  largest single party in the  हाउस  of Commons with 303 MPs  ,  the largest  पार्टी  in  लोकल  government  साथ   9,391   पार्षदों   ,   और   the  largest British party in the  यूरोपीय  Parliament with  25  MEPs .
it   governs  in coalition with  the  Liberal  डेमोक्रेट  , with  पार्टी   नेता  David Cameron as Prime  मंत्री  .
The Conservative  पार्टी  was founded  in   1834  ,  और   थी  one of  दो  dominant  पार्टियों   in   the  19th  सदी   ,   साथ   साथ  the Liberal Party  .
it   बदला   इसके  name  to  the  रूढ़िवादी   और   यूनियनिस्ट   पार्टी  in  1912  after merging with  the  Liberal Unionist Party  ,  although that name is rarely used  और  it is generally referred  to   as  simply  the   रूढ़िवादी  Party  .
in   the  1920s ,  the  Liberal vote  greatly  diminished and the Labour Party  became  the Conservatives  '  main  विरोधियों   .
रूढ़िवादी  Prime Ministers led governments  लिये   57  years  of   the   20th  century ,  सहित   विंस्टन   चर्चिल   (   1940–45   ,  1951–55 ) and  मार्गरेट  Thatcher ( 1979–90  )  .
थैचर   's  tenure led to wide-ranging economic  उदारीकरण  and saw the  conservatives  become  the   सबसे  eurosceptic of  the  three major parties .
the  party  थी   लौटे  to government  in   गठबन्धन  , having  विफल   to  win  a  majority , in  2010  under  the  more `` liberal  ''  leadership  of  David Cameron .
in  the  यूरोपीय  Parliament  ,  the Conservatives are  the   largest  British party  साथ  25 MEPs  ,  who sit with the soft eurosceptic European Conservatives  और   reformists  ( ECR ) parliamentary group  ,   जबकि   the   पार्टी  itself is a member  of   the  Alliance of European  conservatives   और  Reformists ( AECR ) Europarty  .
They are  the  third-largest party  in  the  स्कॉटिश   पार्लियामेंट   और  second-largest in  the   वेल्श  Assembly .
वे  were formally allied  to   the   ulster   यूनियनिस्ट  Party (  uup   )  as part  of  the  ulster  Conservatives and Unionists arrangement  ,   साथ   the  UUP  फिलहाल  participating in the  five-party  Northern Ireland Executive  .
Destiny 's Child  थी  an American  r  &  b  girl group whose  फाइनल   ,  and  शायद   सबसे  recognizable  ,   line-up  comprised Beyoncé  नॉलेस  ,  केली   rowland  and Michelle Williams .
Formed in  1990   in   ह्यूस्टन   ,  Texas  ,  Destiny 's Child  सदस्यों   began   उनके   musical   endeavors   as  Girl 's Tyme  comprising  ,  among  others ,  नॉलेस   ,  Rowland , LaTavia  roberson   और  LeToya  luckett  .
बाद   सालो   of   सीमित  success  ,   वे  were signed to  कोलंबिया   रिकॉर्ड  as Destiny 's  चाइल्ड   .
नियति  's Child was  शुभारम्भ  into mainstream  मान्यता  following  the  release of their best-selling second  एल्बम  , The  लिखने  's  on   the  Wall  ,  which contained  the   number-one   singles  `` Bills ,  बिल्स   ,  Bills  ``  and `` Say My Name `` .
Despite  नाजुक  and commercial success ,  the  group  थी  plagued  by  internal conflict  और  legal turmoil ,  as  Roberson and  luckett  attempted  to   विभाजित  from  the   समूह  's manager Mathew Knowles ,  citing   favoritism  of  नॉलेस  and  rowland   ,  his daughter  और   भांजी   ,  respectively  .
दोनो  Roberson and  luckett  were soon  replaced   साथ  Williams and Farrah Franklin ;  however  , in 2000 ,  फ्रैंकलिन  was  बर्खास्त   ,   leaving  them as  a  trio  .
Their  तीसरा   एल्बम  , Survivor ,  जिससे   contains   विषयवस्तु  the  पब्लिक  interpreted  as  a  चैनल   to  the group 's  अनुभव  , contains  the   विश्वव्यापी   हिट्स  ``  स्वतंत्र   महिलाओं   ``   ,   ``   उत्तरजीवी  `` and ``  bootylicious  ``  .
in  2002 , they announced a hiatus and  re-united  two years later for the  रिलीज  of  उनके  fourth studio album ,  नियति   fulfilled  (  2004  )  .
नियति  's  चाइल्ड   रै  sold  अधिक   than  50 million  रिकॉर्ड   विश्वव्यापी   to  date  .
बिलबोर्ड  magazine  बाँधने  the  समूह  as one  of  the greatest musical trios of  सब   समय  , the ninth most  कामयाब  artist/band  of   the   2000s  , and  लगाई   the  group  68th  in  इसके   all-time   hot   100   कलाकारों   सूची  in 2008  .
the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (  सीडीसी  ) is a United  राज्य  federal agency under  the  Department of  स्वास्थ्य  and  इंसान  Services headquartered  in   druid  Hills  ,  unincorporated DeKalb County ,  जॉर्जिया  ,  in   वृहद  Atlanta .
it  works  to   protect  public  स्वास्थ्य  and  सुरक्षा  by providing information to enhance health  निर्णय  , and it  promotes   स्वास्थ्य   through  partnerships  साथ   राज्य  health departments and other  संगठन   .
The CDC focus national attention  on  developing and applying  बीमारी  prevention and  कंट्रोल  ( especially infectious diseases  और   foodborne   pathogens   और  other microbial infections )  ,   पर्यावरणीय   स्वास्थ्य  ,  occupational   सुरक्षा  and health  ,   स्वास्थ्य   प्रमोशन   ,  injury prevention and  शिक्षा  activities designed to improve the  स्वास्थ्य  of the  लोगों  of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  .
the   सीडीसी  is the  संयुक्त  States ' national public  स्वास्थ्य  institute and is  a   founding  member of  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Association of National Public  स्वास्थ्य  Institutes .
Earthquake prediction  ``   is  usually  पारिभाषित  as the  specification   of  the time  ,   स्थान   ,  and  परिमाण   of   a  future  भूकंप  within  stated  limits  ''  , and  विशेषकर  of ``  the   अगला   दमदार   भूकंप   to  occur in a region . ''
This can be distinguished  इससे   भूकंप  forecasting  ,  which is  the   probabilistic  assessment  of   सामान्य   भूकंप  hazard ,  सहित   the  frequency and magnitude of damaging earthquakes  ,  in a given  क्षेत्रफल  over periods  of   सालो   or  decades .
इस  can be  further  distinguished from real-time  भूकंप  warning systems , which , upon  डिटेक्शन  of  a   कठोर  earthquake ,  can  provide neighboring  regions  a  few   सेकेंड  warning  of  potentially significant shaking  .
To  be   उपयोगी  , an earthquake  भविष्यवाणी  must be precise enough  to   वारंट   the   लागत  of increased precautions , including disruption  of   ordinary  activities and  कॉमर्स   ,  and  सामयिक   पर्याप्त  that preparation  can  be  बना  .
पूर्वानुमान   जरूर  also be reliable , as false alarms and  रद्द   सचेतक   हैं  not only  economically  costly , but  seriously   undermine  confidence in , and  thereby   the   प्रभावकारिता   of  , any kind  of   चेतावनी  .
साथ  over 7,000 earthquakes around the world  प्रत्येक  year  साथ   a  magnitude of 4.0 or greater , trivial  कामयाबी  in  भूकंप   भविष्यवाणी   is  easily  प्राप्त  using sufficiently  व्यापक  parameters of  समय  ,  स्थान   ,  or  परिमाण  .
however  ,  ऐसे   नगण्य  `` successful  पूर्वानुमान   ''  are not useful  .
Major earthquakes  हैं  often followed by reports that they were  पूर्वानुमानित  , or at  तनिक  anticipated ,  लकिन  no  अर्जी  of a successful  भविष्यवाणी  of a major  भूकंप  has survived close inquiry .
in  the  1970s  there  थी  intense optimism  amongst  scientists  कि   कुछ  method  of  predicting  भूकंप  might  be  found ,  लकिन  by the  1990s  continuing failure led many  वैज्ञानिकों  to  सवाल  whether  it  was even  संभावित   .
While many  वैज्ञानिकों   स्टिल  hold that ,  दिए  enough  संसाधन   ,  prediction might be  संभावित  ,  अनेक  others maintain  कि  earthquake prediction is inherently impossible  .
डेबोरा  Ann  ``   debby   ''  Ryan ( born May 13  ,  1993  )  is an American actress ,  सिंगर   ,   संगीतकार  ,  songwriter   और   रिकार्ड   निर्माता   .
रयान   is  best known  लिये  starring as Bailey  पिकेट   in  the  डिज़्नी  Channel Original  श्रेणी   the   सुइट   जीवन   on   डेक  .
In 2008 ,  the  Suite Life  on   डेक   क्रमित  as TV 's  शीर्ष   श्रेणी   among   बच्चे  6-11 and the No . 2  scripted   श्रेणी   among  tweens 9-14 .
Ryan started acting  in   पेशेवर   थिएटर   at  the age  of  seven ;  in  2007 she  appeared  in the Barney  &   मित्रों  straight-to-DVD  फिल्मी   बार्नी   :  Let  's  Go to the Firehouse and  तब   थी  discovered  in  a nationwide  ढूंढें  by  डिज़्नी   .
वो  is  भी   ज्ञात  for  appearing  in the 2008  विशेषता   फिल्मी  The Longshots  as  Edith .
In 2009  ,   वो   अतिथि  starred  in  an episode of Wizards of Waverly Place in Wizards  on  Deck with Hannah Montana  as  Bailey Pickett along with her other  डाल  mates from The  सुइट  Life on Deck  .
Then , in 2010 , she starred  in   the   फिल्मी  16  बधाइयां  ,  जिससे  was the most watched cable program  on  the day of its  प्रीमियर  on  the  Disney  चैनल   .
16  बधाइयां   introduced   रयान   to  new audiences  ;  the movie  प्राप्त   ऊँची  viewership in the  वयस्कों  demographic ( 18-34  )  .
Soon  बाद  that  ,  Ryan  स्ट्रक्चर  in  the  independent theatrical  फिल्मी  , What If ...  ,   जिससे  premiered on  अगस्त  20 ,  2010   .
Ryan also  स्ट्रक्चर  in the  नई   डिज़्नी   चैनल   असली  movie , Radio Rebel , where  वो   portrays  the  भूमिका  of  tara  Adams , a  शर्मीले   17-year-old   लड़की  who  adopts  the radio personality , Radio Rebel .
Released February  17  , 2012 .
Ryan stars  in   the   titular  role in the  डिज़्नी  Channel  असली  Series , Jessie .
Stührling Tourbillon Movement  (  ) .
In horology , a tourbillon  (  ;  ``  whirlwind  ''  ) is an  जोड   to   the  mechanics of  a   देखें  escapement  .
विकसित  around 1795  by   the  French-Swiss  घड़ीसाज़  Abraham-Louis  breguet   इससे  an earlier idea by the  अंग्रेज़ी  chronometer  मेकर   जॉन   अर्नाल्ड   ,  a tourbillon aims  to   काउंटर   the  effects  of  gravity by mounting the escapement and  संतुलन  wheel in  a   घूर्णन  cage , to  negate   the   प्रभाव  of gravity  जब  the  timepiece   (  thus  the  escapement ) is stuck in  a  certain  स्थिति  .
originally   an   attempt  to  improve  accuracy  ,  tourbillons are still included  in  some  महंगी  modern watches  as  a  विलक्षणता   और  demonstration  of  watchmaking virtuosity .
the   यांत्रिकी  is  प्रायः   उजागर   on  the  देखें  's  फेस  to  दिखाएँ   it   बंद   .
The  खिड़कियाँ   installer   (  previously known as Microsoft Installer ) is  a   तन्त्र  component used for the installation ,  मेंटेनेंस  , and  हटाना   of  software on modern Microsoft Windows systems  .
The  संस्थापना   सूचना   ,  and  प्रायः  the  फाइलें   themselves  ,  हैं  packaged  in  installation packages  ,   loosely  relational databases  संरचित  as COM Structured  storages  and commonly known  as  ``  msi   फाइलें   ''  , from their default  संचिका  extension .
खिड़कियाँ  Installer contains  significant   परिवर्तन   इससे  its predecessor  ,   सेटअप   api   .
नई  features include a GUI  फ्रेमवर्क   और   स्वचालित   पीढी   of  the uninstallation  अनुक्रम  .
Windows  installer  is positioned as an  वैकल्पिक  to  stand-alone  executable installer frameworks such  as   पुरानी   संस्करण  of InstallShield  और  NSIS  .
microsoft  encourages  तीसरा   पार्टियों   to  use Windows Installer as  the   आधार  for installation  frameworks   ,   so  that they synchronize correctly  साथ   अन्य   installers   और   रखना  the internal  डेटाबेस  of installed products consistent .
महत्वपूर्ण   सुविधाएँ  such as  rollback  and versioning depend on a consistent  आतंरिक  database for  विश्वसनीय  operation .
Furthermore  ,  Windows  installer   facilitates  the principle  of  least privilege  by  performing software installations  by  proxy for unprivileged  उपयोक्ता  .
चार  Loko is  a  line  of  alcoholic beverages , originally  marketed  as energy drinks ,  बेची   by  Phusion  प्रोजेक्ट   of  Chicago  ,   इलिनोइस   .
Phusion  operates  as Drink Four  brewing  Company  .
Four Loko  ,  the company 's most  लोकप्रिय   पेय  , debuted in  the  United  राज्य   मार्केट  in 2005 .
it   is   अभी  sold  in   48  states  ,  and in Canada ,  the  Bahamas ,  बोलीविया  ,  होंडुरास  , and Europe  .
The  नाम   ``  Four  ''   is  derived from  the  original energy drink  's  four  प्रमुख  ingredients : alcohol , caffeine , taurine  ,   और  guarana  .
चार   ब्रांडेड  products have been  the   ऑब्जेक्ट  of  विधिक  ,  नैतिक  , and  स्वास्थ्य  concerns related to the company  allegedly   विपणन  them  to   the  underaged and  the  purported danger  of   combining  alcohol and  कैफीन   .
After  the  beverage was  बैन  in several states , a product reintroduction  in  December 2010 removed  कैफीन  , taurine  ,   और   guarana   as  ingredients ,  और  the  malt   पेय  is no  longer  marketed  as   an  energy drink  .
The neck of a  गिटार   प्रर्दशित   the   नट  (  in  the background  ,  coloured  श्वेत  )  और  first four metal  frets  .
a   fret  is  a   उठाया  element  on  the neck  of  a stringed  यंत्र  .
frets   प्रायः  extend across the full width  of   the   गर्दन  .
On most modern  पश्चिमी  fretted  यंत्र   ,   frets  are metal strips  inserted  into  the  fingerboard  .
on  some historical instruments and non-European instruments  ,   frets   हैं   बना  of  टुकड़े  of  स्ट्रिंग  tied around the neck .
Frets divide the neck into  फिक्स्ड   खण्ड  at intervals related  to  a  musical  framework .
On  यंत्र  such as guitars ,  प्रत्येक  fret represents  एक   semitone   in  the standard  पश्चिमी  system where  एक  octave is  विभाजित  into twelve  semitones  .
Fret is often  प्रयुक्त  as a verb , meaning  बस   ``  to  दबायें   bas  the  स्ट्रिंग  behind a fret .  ''
Fretting  प्रायः  refers  to   the  frets  and/or  their system of placement .
There was consumption of  दारू  both  दौरान   और  after prohibition  .
The 18th  amendment  prohibited the  उत्पादन  , distribution and sale of alcoholic beverages  in  the  संयुक्त  States and was  widely   समर्थित  by  the  American  पब्लिक   जब  it went into effect in 1920  .
The temperance movement  था  popularized the  विश्वास   कि   दारू  was the  प्रमुख  cause of most personal and social  समस्याएं   और   निषेध   थी  seen as  the  solution  to  the  स्वदेश   's   गरीबी  , crime , violence  ,   और  other  ills   .
Upon ratification of the  amendment  , the  प्रसिद्ध  evangelist Billy Sunday  कहा   कि   ``   the  slums will soon be  तभी  a memory .
we  will turn our prisons into factories and our jails  into   storehouses  and  corncribs   .  ''
( Compare Christianity  और   दारू   .  )
चूंकि  alcohol was  to   be   बैन  and  चूंकि  it was seen as  the  cause of most  ,  if not  सब  , crime ,  कुछ  communities sold their jails  .
The  स्वदेश   थी  highly  आशावादी  and the leading  prohibitionist   in   the  United  राज्य  Congress  confidently  asserted  कि   ``  There is as  much  chance  of   repealing   the  Eighteenth  amendment  as  वहीँ  is for a  हमिंगबर्ड  to fly to  the  planet  मंगल   साथ   the   वॉशिंगटन   स्मारक  tied to its tail.”
The metre ( meter in  अमरीकी  English  )   ,   (  SI  ईकाई  symbol :  m  ; SI dimension symbol :  l  ) ,  is  the  आधारभूत  unit of  लंबाई  in the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  System of Units  (   si  ) .
Originally intended to  be  one ten-millionth  of  the distance from  the  Earth 's  equator  to the North Pole  (  at sea  स्तर  )  ,  its definition  रै   महरूम  periodically  परिष्कृत  to reflect growing knowledge of metrology .
चूंकि  1983 , it  रै   महरूम  defined as  ``  the  लंबाई  of  the   पाथ  travelled  by  light in  वैक्यूम  during  a   समय  interval of  1/299,792,458  of a  दूसरी   .  ''
geologists  exploring Jurassic  sedimentary  rocks in Makhtesh Gadol  ,  Negev  मरुस्थल   ,   इसराईल
geologists   explaining  the  महत्व   of  volcanic ash  परतों  to  विद्यार्थी  on  फ़ील्ड  in  आइसलैंड
A  भूवैज्ञानिक  is  a  scientist who studies the  ठोस  and liquid matter  कि  constitutes  the  Earth as  खूब  as the processes and history that has  तराशा  it .
Geologists usually  engage  in studying geology .
geologists  , studying more of an applied science  than  a theoretical  एक   ,  must approach Geology  using  physics , chemistry  और   जीवविज्ञान  as well  as  other sciences  .
geologists  ,  compared   to  scientists engaged in other fields ,  हैं  generally more exposed to the outdoors  than   रहकर   in  laboratories  ;  although some geologists  prefer  to  perform  most of  उनके  studies in the  lab  .
geologists   हैं   सगाई  in  खोजी  for mining companies in search of  धातुओं  , oils , and other  धरती  resources .
They are also  in  the  forefront   of  natural hazards  और  disasters warning  और   शमन   ,  studying earthquakes , volcanic activity  ,  tsunamis ,  मौसम   तूफ़ान  , and  the  like ;  उनके   अध्ययन  are used  to   warn  the general public of  the   occurrence  of  ये  events .
Currently  ,   geologists   हैं   भी  engaged  in  the discussion of climate change  ,  as  वे   पढ़ाई  the  इतिहास   और  evidence for  इस  Earth process  .
Below  is  a  व्यापक   ड्रिल  and tap size chart  लिये   सब  drills  ,   इम्पीरियल  and metric  ,  and taps  up  to 36.5 mm .
Modern  वैक्यूम  tubes , mostly miniature  स्टाइल
In electronics , a vacuum  ट्यूब  , electron tube (  in  North America  )   ,  thermionic valve , tube ,  or  valve  is   a   यंत्र   controlling  electric current  through  a vacuum in a  sealed  container  .
the  container  is  often  पतला  transparent glass  in  a roughly cylindrical  आकार   .
The simplest  वैक्यूम   ट्यूब  ,  the   डायोड  , is essentially  an   incandescent  light bulb with  an  added electrode inside .
जब  the bulb 's  फिलामेंट   is  heated white-hot ,  electrons  are  ``  boiled  ''   बंद   इसके  surface and  into  the  वैक्यूम  inside the bulb  .
If  the  electrode  --  called a ``  थाली   ''  or `` anode '' --  is   बना  more positive than  the  hot  फिलामेंट   ,   a  direct  वर्तमान  flows  through   the   वैक्यूम   to   the  electrode ( a demonstration of the  एडिसन  effect )  .
As the  वर्तमान   तभी  flows in  एक   दिशा  , it  makes   it   संभावित  to convert  an  alternating  वर्तमान   लागू   to  the  फिलामेंट  to direct  वर्तमान   .
The introduction of a third electrode ,  a  grid  between   the   फिलामेंट   और  the  थाली  , yields  another  function .
A voltage applied to the grid controls  the  current flowing from  the   फिलामेंट  to the plate .
Thus  ,  it allows the  यंत्र   to  be  प्रयुक्त  as an  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  amplifier  .
वैक्यूम  tubes  हैं   यूँ  used  लिये   rectification  , amplification ,  switching  , or similar processing or creation of  विद्युत  signals  .
The vast majority of  आधुनिक  day  tubes  consist of  a  sealed  संग्राहक  with  a  vacuum inside , and  essentially   rely  on thermionic  उत्सर्जन  of electrons from  a  hot filament  or  a  कैथोड   heated  by the filament .
Some  अपवाद  to this  हैं  dealt with  in   the  section  परिचय   gas-filled  tubes  नीचे  .
Vacuum tubes were  नाजुक  to  the  development of  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  technology ,  जिससे  drove the expansion and commercialization of  रेडियो  broadcasting ,  टेलीविज़न  , radar , sound reinforcement , sound recording and reproduction , large telephone networks  ,   एनालॉग  and digital computers , and  औद्योगिक   प्रक्रम  control  .
Although some  अनुप्रयोग  had counterparts using  पहले   technologies   ऐसे  as the spark gap  ट्रांसमीटर  or mechanical  कंप्यूटर  , it was  the  invention of the  वैक्यूम   ट्यूब   साथ   तीन  electrodes ( called  a  triode ) and  इसके  capability of  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   प्रवर्धन   कि   बना  these technologies widespread  और  practical .
In  सबसे  applications ,  solid-state   डिवाइस   ऐसे  as  transistors  and other  सेमीकंडक्टर  devices  have   replaced  tubes .
solid-state  devices last longer  और  are  छोटी   ,  more efficient , more reliable ,  और   सस्ता  than tubes  .
Tubes can be fragile  ,   sometimes  generate  significant  unwanted  ऊष्मा  , and  can  take many seconds—many minutes in  नाजुक   applications—after   powering   on  to warm to a temperature where they perform within operational  सहिष्णुता  .
However ,  tubes   स्टिल   ढूँढें  uses where  solid-state   डिवाइस  have  नहीं  been developed ,  हैं  impractical , or where a tube has superior performance ,  as  with  कुछ  devices  in  professional  ऑडियो  and  high-power   रेडियो   ट्रांसमीटरों   .
Tubes are  स्टिल  produced  लिये  such  अनुप्रयोग  .
Tubes  हैं   कम  likely than semiconductor  डिवाइस  to  be  destroyed by  the   इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक   पल्स  produced by nuclear explosions  और   geomagnetic  storms  उत्पादित  by giant solar flares .
Skittles is a  ब्रांड  of fruit-flavoured sweets , currently produced and marketed by the  wm   .  Wrigley Jr. Company  ,   a   प्रभाग  of Mars  ,  Inc .
They  have  hard sugar shells which carry the letter  s  .
The inside is  मुख्यतः   शुगर  , corn  सिरप   ,  and  hydrogenated   ताड़  kernel oil along with fruit juice ,  साइट्रिक  acid , and natural and  कृत्रिम  flavours .
The confectionery has  महरूम  sold  in   a  variety of  फ्लेवर  collections  ,   ऐसे   as  Tropical  और   जंगली   बेरी  .
सर   विंस्टन  Leonard Spencer-Churchill  ,   (   30  November 1874  –  24 January 1965 ) was a British politician  जो  was  the   प्रधान  Minister  of   the   संयुक्त   किंगडम  from  1940   to  1945  और   again   इससे  1951  to  1955 .
widely   regarded   as  one  of   the   महानतम   wartime  leaders  of   the   20th  century ,  चर्चिल  was  भी  an  अधिकारी  in  the  British Army  ,  a historian , a  लेखक   ,  and an artist .
he  is the only British  प्रधान  Minister in  इतिहास  to have  प्राप्त   the  Nobel Prize  in   साहित्य   ,   और  was also  the   पहला   व्यक्ति  to be  बना   an  Honorary Citizen of  the  United States  .
Churchill was  born   into  an aristocratic family as the  पोता   of  the 7th Duke of  marlborough   .
उसके   पिता  ,  रब   randolph   चर्चिल   ,   थी   a  charismatic politician who  परोसा  as Chancellor of  the  Exchequer  ;  his mother ,  jennie   जेरोम  , was an American socialite .
As a young  फौज  officer ,  he  saw  कार्रवाई  in British India , The  सूडान   ,  and  the   दूसरी  Boer War  .
he   gained  fame as a war correspondent and  लिखा  books about  उसके   अभियान  .
At  the  forefront of politics  लिये   पचास   सालो   ,  he  आयोजित   अनेक   राजनैतिक  and cabinet positions  .
Before the  पहला  World War , he  परोसा  as  अध्यक्ष   of  the  फलक   of  Trade  ,  Home Secretary , and First Lord of  the  Admiralty as part of the  asquith  Liberal government  .
During the war , he  जारी  as  पहला  Lord of the Admiralty  जबतक   the  disastrous Gallipoli Campaign  caused  his  प्रस्थान  from government  .
he   तब  briefly resumed active  फौज   सेवा   on  the  पश्चिमी  Front as commander of  the   6th   बटालियन  of  the  Royal Scots  fusiliers  .
He returned to government  as   मंत्री  of  munitions   ,  Secretary of State  लिये  War , and Secretary  of  State for Air .
After  the   युद्ध  ,  चर्चिल  served as  चांसलर  of  the   exchequer   in  the  रूढ़िवादी   (   baldwin  ) government of 1924–29  ,  controversially  returning   the  pound  स्टर्लिंग  in  1925   to   the  gold standard at  इसके   pre-war  parity , a  मूव   widely  seen as  बनाना  deflationary pressure on  the  UK economy .
भी  controversial was  उसके   विपक्ष   to  increased home  नियम  for  इण्डिया  and  उसके  resistance to the 1936 abdication of Edward  viii  .
आउट  of office and politically ``  in   the   wilderness   ''   दौरान   the   1930s   ,  Churchill took  the  lead in warning  परिचय  Nazi Germany  और  in  campaigning   लिये  rearmament .
on  the outbreak  of  the Second World War , he  थी   again  appointed  पहला   रब   of   the  Admiralty  .
Following the  इस्तीफा  of  नेविली   चेम्बरलेन   on  10 May 1940  ,  Churchill  became  Prime  मंत्री   .
His steadfast refusal to consider  शिकस्त  , surrender  ,   or   a   सुलह  peace  helped  inspire British  प्रतिरोध  ,  विशेषकर  during the difficult early days of the  युद्ध  when Britain  stood  alone  among  European countries  in  its  क्रियाशील  opposition to Adolf  हिटलर   .
Churchill was particularly noted  लिये   उसके  speeches  और   रेडियो  broadcasts , which  helped  inspire the British  लोगों   .
he  led Britain as Prime  मंत्री   जबतक  victory over Nazi Germany had been  secured   .
After  the  Conservative Party  खोया   the  1945  चुनाव  , he  became  Leader  of  the  विपक्ष  to the Labour (  attlee   )   सरकारी  .
बाद   जीतना  the 1951  चुनाव   ,  he  again   became  Prime Minister  ,   पहले   retiring  in  1955  .
Upon  उसके   मौत   ,   एलिज़ाबेथ  II granted  उसे  the  इज्ज़त  of a  राज्य  funeral  ,  which saw one  of   the  largest assemblies of world  कूटनीतिज्ञों   in  history .
Named the  महानतम  Briton of all  समय  in  a  2002  पोल  , Churchill is widely  regarded   as  being  among  the most  influential  people  in   अंग्रेजों   इतिहास   .
Ruby Gloom  is   an  animated television show based on  an  apparel  मताधिकार  .
The show is produced  by   nelvana  and began  airing  on October 13  ,  2006 in Canada  on  the network YTV  .
It  सितारों  the  आवाज़ें  of Sarah Gadon  ,  Emily Hampshire , and Peter  keleghan   .
the  Ford Focus is a  कॉम्पैक्ट  car ( C-segment in  यूरोपीय   )  manufactured by the  घाट  Motor Company since 1998 .
Ford  began   बिक्री  of the Focus  to   यूरोपीय  in July 1998 and in  उत्तर  America during 1999  लिये  the 2000 model year .
In Europe  ,   दक्षिण  America  ,   उत्तर  America and  दक्षिण  Africa , the Focus  replaced  the various versions of the  घाट  Escort sold  in  those markets  .
In  एशिया  and  australasia  ,  it   replaced  the Ford Laser  .
As of the first half of  2012   ,  the  फ़ोकस  surpassed the Toyota Corolla to  become   the   संसार   's   बेहतरीन   selling  automobile  nameplate  .
The Focus has been  माना   एक  of  the  50  महानतम   गाड़ियाँ  of  the   पास्ट  fifty years  by   अंग्रेजों   पत्रिका  CAR .
an  agar plate  --  an  उदाहरण  of a  बैक्टीरियल  growth medium  .
specifically   ,  it is a  streak  plate  ;  the  नारंगी   लाइनों  and  dots  are  formed  by bacterial colonies .
a  growth medium  or   संस्कृति  medium is  a   द्रव  or  gel  designed  to  support the  विकास   of   microorganisms   or  cells , or  छोटी  plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens  .
वहीँ   हैं  different types of media  लिये  growing  अलग  types of cells .
वहीँ   हैं  two  प्रमुख  types of growth  मीडिया  : those used for  कोशिका   संस्कृति   ,  which use  विशिष्ट  cell types derived from plants or animals , and microbiological  संस्कृति   ,   जिससे  are  प्रयुक्त  for  growing  microorganisms , such as  जीवाणु  or  खमीर   .
The most common  विकास  media  लिये   microorganisms  are  nutrient  broths and agar plates ; specialized media are sometimes required  लिये   microorganism  and  कोशिका  culture  विकास  .
Some organisms  ,  termed  सुकुमार  organisms  ,  require  specialized   environments  due to complex nutritional requirements .
Viruses ,  लिये   उदाहरण  ,  हैं   obligate  intracellular parasites  और  require a  विकास   मीडियम  containing living  कोशिकाएं  .
A talent agent  ,   or  booking agent , is a person who  पाता   कार्य  for  अभिनेताओं   ,  authors , film  निर्देशकों   ,  musicians ,  मॉडल   ,  producers , professional athletes  ,   लेखक   और   अन्य  people in various entertainment  व्यवसायों  .
an   एजेंट   भी  defends  ,  supports  और  promotes  the   ब्याज  of his/her clients .
एजेंटों   can   नहीं   उपज   उनके   अपना  shows  due  to  विरोध  of interest .
A talent  एजेंट   जरूर   be  familiar  साथ  their clients .
An agent  रै  to know what kind  of  work the  क्लाएंट   can  and can not do in order to match them  साथ   विभिन्न   कार्य  .
having   an  agent  is   नहीं   जरूरी  , but does  सहायता   the   कलाकार  in  getting  jobs .
In  अनेक   मामले   ढलाई  directors , or other businesses , go to talent agencies to find  कलाकारों   वे  are looking for  .
the  agent is paid a  प्रतिशत  of  the  star  's   आय   (   typically  10  %  ) .
Agents  sometimes   होगा   be  referred to  as   ``  10 percenters .  ''
There are different  regulations  that govern different types of agents that are established  by  artist  's   संघ  and the legal  क्षेत्राधिकार  in  जिससे   the  agent  operates   .
वहीँ   हैं   भी   पेशेवर  organizations that license  हुनर  agencies .
चूंकि  the decline in  viewership  in theaters  ,  from the  1950s  to  1960s  , this caused  a  monumental shift in how studios would  उपज   films  and thus reducing  the  cost of  विशेष   और  expensive  अभिनेताओं  .
अभिनेताओं  and actresses  यहूद  working  लिये   the   studios  but were not owned by  एक   प्रमुख  studio entity and  so  were able  to  work on within their time and with other  studios  .
Because of this ,  एजेंटों   यहूद  now seen as a  necessity   बजाय   of   an   विकल्प   .
Agents now  became  third parties  कि  negotiated between studios and clients , this making their services  imperative   between   प्रत्येक   पार्टी  .
Since talent  एजेंसियों  are working  साथ  lucrative contracts , all  हुनर  agencies  जरूर   be  licensed  अंतर्गत  special  भाग  of  the  California Labor  कोड   ,   जिससे   काल्स   an   एजेंट   a   ``  person  or  corporation  जो  engages in the occupation of  procuring   ,   offering  ,  होनहार   ,  or  attempting   to  procure employment for artist or artists  .   ''
मंगल   रै   दो  known  moons  ,  phobos  and  deimos   ,   जिससे  are thought  to  be  captured   क्षुद्रग्रह  .
Both  satellites  were  खोजा  in 1877 by  asaph   हॉल  and are named after the characters Phobos ( panic/fear )  और  Deimos  (  terror/dread )  जो  , in  यूनानी   mythology  , accompanied their father  एरीस  ,  परमेश्वर  of  युद्ध  ,  into  battle .
एरीस   थी  known  as   मंगल  to the Romans  .
It  is  possible  कि  Mars  may  have  moons  smaller than 50 -  100   मीटर  and a dust  रिंग  between  phobos  and Deimos  may  be present but none have  महरूम   खोजा   .
In  विधि  enforcement  parlance   ,  the term murder book  refers  to the  मामला  file of  a   हत्या  investigation  .
Typically , murder  किताबे  include crime  झाँकी   छायाचित्र  and sketches  ,   पोस्टमार्टम  and  forensic  reports ,  transcripts   of  investigators '  टीप  and  गवाह  interviews  .
The murder  किताब   encapsulates   the  complete paper trail of a murder  छानबीन   ,  from  the  time  the  murder  is   पहला  reported  through   the  arrest  of  a  suspect   .
Law enforcement  एजेंसियों  typically guard murder  किताबे  carefully  ,  and it is  असामान्य  for civilians to be given  आज़ाद   अभिगम  to  ये   kinds  of records , especially for unsolved cases  .
A  melon  baller
melon  balls are  गेंदें   of   melon  made  using  a melon baller that varies from  around   1   centimeter  to  3  centimeters  (   परिचय   3/8  inch  to   1   इंच   )  .
They are generally  प्रयुक्त  in  फल  salad  .
A KSA  ,  or Knowledge , Skills  ,   और  Abilities  ,  is a  श्रेणी  of narrative  कथन   कि   हैं   जरूरी  when applying to United States Federal  सरकारी  job openings  .
KSAs are used to determine  ,   साथ  with resumes , who  the   बेहतरीन  applicants are  जब   अनेक   उम्मीदवार   qualify  for a job .
the  knowledge ,  कौशल  and abilities  (  KSAs ) necessary for  the  successful performance of a position are contained on each  जॉब  vacancy announcement  .
In 2009 the Office  of  Personal Management asked  संघीय   एजेंसियों  to  रोकें   requiring  job applicants  to  fill  आउट  the  questionnaires  , to be  phased   आउट   भीतर  a  साल  .
ksas  are brief  और   केन्द्रित  essays about one  's  career and  शैक्षणिक   पृष्ठभूमि  that  presumably   qualify  one to perform  the  duties of  the  position  होने  applied for .
A  ज्ञान   ,  skills ,  और   abilities   (  KSA  )  is  a  concise  निबन्ध   परिचय  one  's  talent  और   विशेषज्ञता   और  related experiences (  कार्य  , education ,  स्वयंसेवी  )  और   accomplishments   .
a   श्रेणी   of   ksa  statements are usually required  जब  applying for most  संघीय   सरकारी  and some state  और   नगर  government jobs  .
ksas   हैं  used  as   a  yardstick to  assess  the  सामर्थ्य  of  a  prospective applicant in terms  of   संभावित  ability to perform  the  duties of the job .
सबसे  government hiring  officials  look for  a   छोटी   ,   कुरकुरे   और   साफ  KSA that  emphasizes  results  or  accomplishments obtained in previous work .
ksa   कथन  are  भी  known as  मूल्यांकन  Factors .
अन्य  agencies sometimes  कॉल   उन्हें   ``   दरजा   कारकों  ''  ,   ``   विशेषता  Ranking Factors  ''   ,   ``  Knowledge , Abilities , skills  और   अन्य   विशेषताएँ  '' ,  or  `` Job  तत्व   ''   .
The name  can   be   बस  a  नाम  but often it influences content and length  of   the   निबन्ध  .
Every agency has  इसके   अपना  regulations  लकिन   सबसे   of  the time the each KSA factor  चाहिए  be  1/2  to  11⁄2   पृष्ठों   long  .
The below definitions are  पारिभाषित  by  the  U.S. Office of  कर्मियों  Management :
Knowledge  ,  Skills  ,  and  abilities  ( KSAs )  -   the   गुण   जरूरी  to perform  a  job and  हैं   generally  demonstrated through qualifying  सेवा  , education  ,   or   प्रशिक्षण  .
ज्ञान  -  is  a  देह   of   सूचना  applied directly to the  प्रदर्शन  of a function .
कौशल  - Is an  observable  competence to perform  a   सीखे  psychomotor act .
Ability  -  Is  competence   to  perform an observable behavior or a  बर्ताव  that results in  an   observable  product .
the  scoring of KSA essays is based on  a  scale of from one to  100   .
Job  आवेदकों   जरूर  score  ऊपर   70   to  be considered  लिये  the position .
ऊँची  scores are derived through  answering   the  KSA question as  specifically   as   संभावित  , providing examples from previous employment  or  training  कि   clearly   demonstrate  you meet the qualifications .
जब  applying to federal government positions  ,  a  संघीय   पुनरारंभ   is   प्रायः  required in  जोड   to  KSA  कथन   .
right
पूरे  grains are  खाद्यान्न  grains that contain  खाद्यान्न   रोगाणु   ,  endosperm  ,  and  चोकर   ,   in   कंट्रास्ट  to  परिष्कृत   दाने  , which retain only the  भ्रूणपोष  .
Common  पूरे  grains include:
Wheat
Oat
जौ   -  Hulled  और   dehulled   (  not Pearl )
मक्का
Brown  राइस
farro
Spelt
Emmer
Einkorn
Kamut
Rye
Millet
quinoa
चौलाई
Triticale
Teff
Sprouted  दाने
buckwheat
आम   पूरे   अनाज  products  include:
Whole wheat flour
Whole wheat Bread
Whole wheat  पास्ता
लिपटे  oats  or  oat groats
Triticale flour
पॉपकॉर्न
Teff flour
आम  refined non-whole  अनाज  products  include:
Love Always  is  the  डेब्यू   एल्बम  of  अमरीकी   r  &  b  duo K-Ci  &   जोजो  , released  on  June  17  , 1997  ,  by MCA Records .
It was  अंकित  at  विभिन्न   studios  in  नई  York and the Los Angeles area  in   1996   और  1997 .
It  थी  produced by  जोजो  and  अनेक  others ,  सहित   devante  Swing ,  जेम्स  Mtume , and Jeff Redd .
The  duo  were  originally   a   भाग   of   jodeci   पहले   इस  album .
The album peaked at  छठे   on  the  us   बिलबोर्ड   200  and also  appeared  on international charts  .
the   सिंगल  ``  सब  My Life ``  charted   क्रमांक   एक   in  multiple  देशों  , and all  चार  of the  एल्बम   's  singles  peaked   ऊपर  the  शीर्ष   25  in the  us   hot  R & B/Hip-Hop Songs and  the   नई  Zealand  शीर्ष  40 Singles .
Love Always  थी   प्राप्त  favorably  by  critics , who  praised  the  भाइयो   '  singing ability and  the   उत्पादन   .
the   एल्बम   रै  been  certified  three times  प्लेटिनम   by   the   रिकॉर्डिंग  Industry  संघ  of America (  riaa  ) and gold  by  Music Canada and IFPI Sweden .
As  of  June 1999 it  था  sold  2.9  million copies in  the   संयुक्त  States  .
A  variable-rate  mortgage  ,  adjustable-rate  बंधक   (   भुजा  ) , or tracker mortgage is a  बंधक   ऋण  with  the  interest  रेट   on   the  note periodically adjusted  आधारित  on an index  जिससे  reflects  the  cost to the  lender   of  borrowing  on  the credit markets .
the  loan may be offered  at  the lender 's  मानक   परिवर्तनीय  rate/  आधार  rate .
वहीँ  may be  a   सीधा  and  legally-defined   कड़ी   to   the  underlying  अनुक्रमणिका   ,  but where the lender offers no specific  कड़ी   to  the underlying  मार्केट  or index the  रेट  can be changed  at   the   lender  's discretion .
the   पद   ``  variable-rate mortgage  ''   is  most  आम  outside the United States  ,  whilst in the United States ,  ``   adjustable-rate  mortgage  ''   is   सबसे   आम   ,   और  implies a  बंधक   regulated  by  the   संघीय  government  ,   साथ  caps on charges .
In many  देशों   ,  adjustable  रेट  mortgages are  the  norm , and in  ऐसे   स्थान  , may simply  be  referred  to   as   mortgages  .
Among the most  आम  indices  हैं   the  rates  on   1-year  constant-maturity  राजकोष   (   cmt   )   प्रतिभूति   ,  the Cost  of   निधि  Index  (  COFI )  ,  and the London Interbank  offered   रेट  (  libor  )  .
A few  lenders   उपयोग  their own  लागत  of  निधि   as  an index  ,   बल्कि  than  using  other indices .
This  is   किया   to   ensure   a  steady  हाशिया  for  the   lender  , whose  अपना  cost of  funding   होगा   प्रायः  be related  to   the  index .
Consequently  ,   भुगतान  made by the borrower  may  change  over   समय   साथ  the  बदलना  interest rate (  alternatively  ,  the  term  of   the   ऋण   may  change )  .
इस   is   पृथक   इससे  the  ग्रैजुएट  payment mortgage , which  offers   बदलना   भुगतान  amounts  लकिन   a   फिक्स्ड   ब्याज  rate .
Other forms of mortgage loan  शामिल   the  interest  तभी  mortgage ,  the  fixed rate mortgage  ,  the negative amortization  बंधक   ,  and  the   गुब्बारा  payment  बंधक  .
समायोज्य  rates transfer  भाग   of  the interest  रेट  risk from  the   lender   to  the borrower .
They can be used where  मनमौजी   ब्याज  rates  मेक   फिक्स्ड  rate  लोन  difficult  to  obtain  .
The  borrower  benefits  if   the   ब्याज  rate falls  लकिन   loses  if the  ब्याज  rate  increases  .
the  borrower  लाभ  from reduced margins to the underlying cost  of  borrowing compared to fixed or  capped  rate  mortgages  .
the   हत्या  of  रॉबर्ट  Francis `` Bobby  ''  Kennedy  ,  a United  राज्य  Senator and brother  of  assassinated President John  fitzgerald  `` Jack ''  कैनेडी  , took place  shortly   बाद   मध्यरात्रि  on June  5   ,  1968 , in Los Angeles , California , during  the  campaign season for the United  राज्य   अध्यक्षीय   चुनाव   ,  1968 .
After  जीतना  the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   और   दक्षिण   डकोटा  primary elections  लिये  the Democratic  नामांकन  for President  of   the  United  राज्य  ,  कैनेडी   थी  shot  as  he  walked   through   the  kitchen of the  दूत  Hotel  और   died   in   the   शुभ   सामरी  Hospital twenty-six hours  बाद   .
Sirhan Sirhan  ,   a  24-year-old Palestinian /  जार्डन  immigrant  ,   थी  convicted of Kennedy  's  murder  और  is  सेवारत   a  life  वाक्य  for the crime  .
sirhan   's  lawyers  have   released  statements  claiming   प्रमाण  that he was framed  .
the   शूटिंग   थी  recorded  on  audio tape  by   a  freelance newspaper  रिपोर्टर  , and the aftermath was captured  on   फिल्मी   .
कैनेडी  's  देह  lay in repose at  st.  Patrick 's Cathedral in New York  लिये   दो  days before a funeral  द्रव्यमान  was held on June 8  .
His  देह   थी   interred  near  उसके  brother John at  आर्लिंगटन  National Cemetery  .
His death  prompted   the  protection of  अध्यक्षीय  candidates  by   the  United States Secret  सेवा  .
Hubert Humphrey went on  to   जीत   the  Democratic  नामांकन  for the presidency , but  ultimately   narrowly   खोया  the election to Richard Nixon  .
As  साथ  his brother  जोकर  's death , Bobby 's  हत्या  and  the   हालातों  surrounding it have  शाखित  a variety  of  conspiracy theories  .
As of  2013   कैनेडी   remains   एक  of only  दो   बैठे  United States Senators to  be  assassinated ( the  अन्य   होने   huey   long   )  .
The  आधुनिक  Age of  कॉमिक   किताबे   is  an  अनौपचारिक  name for the  काल   in  the history of  मुख्यधारा  American comic  किताबे  generally  माना  to  पिछला  from the mid-1980s  जबतक  present  दिन  .
in   इस   काल   ,  comic book characters  generally  became darker  और   अधिक  psychologically  जटिल   ,   creators  became better-known and active in  बदलना   the   उद्योग  , independent comics flourished , and larger  प्रकाशन   घरों  became  अधिक   commercialized   .
An  वैकल्पिक   नाम   लिये  this period  is  the Dark  आयु  of  कॉमिक   किताबे  ,  due  to the popularity  और  artistic influence of grim titles ,  ऐसे  as  और  Watchmen  .
When  हैरी  Met  सैली  ... is a  1989   अमरीकी  romantic  कॉमेडी  film written  by  Nora  ephron   और  directed by  रोब  Reiner  .
it  stars Billy Crystal as Harry and  मेग  Ryan  as   सैली   .
The story  फ़ॉलो   the  title characters  इससे  the time  वे   मिलें   बस  before  sharing  a  cross-country   ड्राइव  , through twelve  सालो  or so  of  chance encounters  in  New  यॉर्क  City  .
the  film  उठाता  the  सवाल  `` Can men  और   महिलाओं  ever just be  मित्रों   ?  '' and advances  अनेक  ideas about relationships that became  household   अवधारणाओं   ,  such as those  of  the  ``  '' girlfriend  और   the  ``  transitional  person  ''  .
The origins of  the  film  आए  from  reiner  's  वापसी   to   सिंगल   जीवन  after  a  divorce  .
an  interview Ephron  conducted   साथ   reiner  provided  the  basis for Harry .
Sally  थी  based  on  Ephron and some  of   उसके   मित्रों  .
Crystal  आए   on   फलक   और  made his own contributions  to   the  screenplay , making  हैरी  funnier .
ephron  supplied  the  structure of the film with  much   of  the dialogue  आधारित   on  the  real-life  friendship  between   reiner  and Crystal  .
The soundtrack consists  of   मानकों   performed   by   हैरी  Connick , Jr. ,  साथ  a  बिग  band and  ऑर्केस्ट्रा  arranged by  मार्क  Shaiman  .
Connick  जीती   उसके  first Grammy  पुरस्कार  for Best Jazz  पुरूष   गायन   प्रदर्शन  .
कोलंबिया   तस्वीरें   released  the film  using   the   ``   मंच  '' technique , which  शामिल   खोलने   it  in  a  few  चुनें   शहरों  ,  letting  positive word of mouth  generate  interest  ,   और  then  धीरे   expanding  distribution over subsequent weeks  .
When Harry Met Sally  ...   grossed  a  कुल  of US $  92   .8  million in  उत्तर  America .
ephron  received a  अंग्रेजों  Academy  फिल्मी  Award , an Oscar  नामांकन   ,  and a Writers Guild  of  America Award nomination for her  पटकथा   .
The  फिल्मी   is   क्रमित  23rd on AFI  's  100  सालो  ... 100 Laughs  सूची   of   the  top comedy  films  in American  सिनेमा   और  number  60  on Bravo 's `` 100 Funniest  फिल्मों   ''   .
In  जल्दी  2004 , the  फिल्मी   थी   adapted  for  the  stage in a  उत्पादन  starring  ल्यूक  Perry and Alyson  हनिंगन   .
200px
Hamburger  हेल्पर  is  a   लकीर  of  packaged   खाना   उत्पाद  primarily  consisting   of  boxed  पास्ता  bundled with a packet or packets of  powdered   सॉस   or  seasonings  .
The  सामग्री  of each box are  संयुक्त  with  browned  ground  बीफ   ,  water and  मिल्क   to   बनाएँ   a  complete dish  .
the  product  लकीर  also features products  साथ   अन्य  starches  ऐसे   as  rice or  आलू  instead  of   पास्ता   .
it   is  made by General Mills  .
Although the  क्लासिक   boxed   हैमबर्गर   हेल्पर   उत्पाद  only  सप्लाई  the starch item  और   the  sauce  पैकेट्स  , some  किस्में  of the  उत्पाद  include  मैदान  beef .
These  शामिल  a  frozen  food line  ,   जिससे   सुविधाएँ   कुछ   of  the brand 's classic varieties in  a   पूरा  meal  kit   रूप   ,  with  frozen  ground beef and  frozen  sauce packaged  separately  from  the   नूडल्स   in  the  वही  bag  .
There is  भी  an `` instant '' version of  हैमबर्गर  Helper containing  निर्जलित  meat , noodles and  seasonings  in a small pouch  ,   requiring   तभी  water  to  be  added   .
The  हैमबर्गर  Helper mascot  is   the  ``  helping  Hand  ''  , an anthropomorphic animated ,  चार   fingered   left-hand  glove  ,  which appears  in  the  उत्पाद   's  television  commercials  and  on  the packages .
ceres  as  देखी  with  the  Hubble Space  दूरदर्शी  .
it   is   the   तभी   बौना   ग्रह  in the asteroid belt .
प्लूटो   in   सन्निकट  true  रंग   आधारित   on   हबल   स्पेस  Telescope  ऐल्बीडो   आंकड़ा
Haumea  साथ   इसके  moons , Hiʻiaka and  namaka  ( artist 's conception  )
माकेमाके   (  artist 's  धारणा  )
eris  and its moon  dysnomia  as seen  साथ  the  हबल  Space Telescope
a  dwarf  ग्रह  is  a   planetary-mass  object that is  neither  a planet nor  a  satellite .
अधिक   explicitly   ,   the  International  खगोलीय  Union  (   iau  )  defines  a  बौना  planet  as  a celestial body in direct orbit  of  the Sun that  is  massive enough for its shape to  be  controlled by gravitation , but that unlike  a  planet  रै   नहीं   साफ  its orbital  प्रदेश   of  other objects .
The  पद  dwarf planet was adopted in 2006 as part of  a  three-way  categorization   of  bodies orbiting the  सूर्य  ,  brought   परिचय   by   an   बढ़ाएँ   in  discoveries  of  trans-Neptunian objects that  rivaled   प्लूटो   in  size ,  और  finally precipitated by  the  discovery of  an   भी  more massive  ऑब्जेक्ट  , Eris .
This classification states  कि   लाशें   विशाल  enough to have  साफ  the neighbourhood of their orbit are defined  as  planets , while those  कि  are  नहीं  massive enough to be rounded  by  their  अपना  gravity are  पारिभाषित   as   छोटी  Solar System  लाशें  .
Dwarf  ग्रह  come  in  between .
The  exclusion  of  बौना  planets from  the  roster of planets by the  iau   रै   महरूम  both praised  और  criticized ; it  थी  said to be the  ``  right decision '' by  माइक   भूरा   ,   जो  discovered and  अन्य  new dwarf planets  ,   लकिन  has  महरूम   अस्वीकृत   by  Alan Stern , who had  coined  the term dwarf planet  in  1990  .
The  iau  currently recognizes five dwarf planets  in   the  Solar System :  ,  Pluto  ,   ,  ,  और  .
However , only two  of   ये   लाशें  ,  ceres  and  प्लूटो  , have been observed in enough  विवरण  to demonstrate that  वे   अनुरूप   the  definition .
eris  has  महरूम  accepted as  a   बौना   ग्रह   क्युकी  it is  अधिक   विशाल  than Pluto .
The IAU subsequently decided that unnamed trans-Neptunian objects with  an   निरपेक्ष  magnitude brighter  than  +1 (  और  hence a  व्यास  of  ≥838  km  assuming  a  ज्यामितीय   ऐल्बीडो   of  ≤1 )  हैं  to  be   नामित   अंतर्गत  the assumption that they are dwarf  ग्रह  .
the  only  दो   ऐसे  objects known  at   the   समय   ,   माकेमाके  and Haumea , went through  इस   नामकरण   कार्यविधि  and were  घोषित  to be dwarf  ग्रह  .
it   is  suspected that another hundred  or  so known  वस्तुएँ   in  the Solar  प्रणाली  are  बौना  planets .
estimates   हैं  that  up   to   200   बौना  planets may  be  found when the entire region  ज्ञात  as  the  Kuiper belt  is  explored  ,   और   कि   the  number may  exceed  10,000 when objects scattered  बाहर   the   kuiper  belt are  माना   .
व्यक्तिगत  astronomers recognize several  of   ये  ,  और   in   अगस्त  2011 Mike  भूरा   प्रकाशित   a  list of  390   प्रत्याशी  objects , ranging  इससे  ``  nearly   निश्चित  ''  to  `` possible '' dwarf planets .  '
Brown identifies  नौ  known objects  –  the  पाँच  accepted  by   the  IAU  प्लस  , ,  ,  and – as `` virtually certain '' , with another  दो   दर्जन  highly likely , and  वहीँ   हैं  probably  a  hundred  or  so such objects in  कुल  .
The classification of bodies  in   अन्य   ग्रहीय  systems  साथ   the  characteristics of dwarf  ग्रह   रै   नहीं   महरूम  addressed  .
A debit  कार्ड  (  भी  known  as  a  बैंको  card or check  कार्ड  ) is  a  plastic  भुगतान   कार्ड   कि   provides  the cardholder electronic  अभिगम  to his  or   उसके   बैंको  account (  s   )  at a  वित्तीय  institution  .
Some cards have a stored  मान   साथ  which  a   भुगतान  is made ,  जबकि   सबसे   रिले  a  संदेश  to the cardholder  's   बैंको  to withdraw  निधि   इससे  a  payee   's   designated  bank account .
The card  ,  where  स्वीकृत  , can be  प्रयुक्त   बजाय  of cash  जब  making purchases  .
In  कुछ  cases  ,  the  प्राथमिक  account  क्रमांक   is   आबंटित  exclusively for use on the  अंतरजाल  and there is  no  physical  कार्ड  .
In many countries ,  the  use  of   डेबिट  cards has  become   so   फैली  that their volume has overtaken or  entirely  replaced  cheques  and  ,  in  कुछ   उदाहरण  ,  नकदी   ट्रांजेक्शन  .
The  विकास   of   डेबिट   ताश   ,  unlike credit cards and  चार्ज  cards , has  generally  been  देश  specific resulting in a  क्रमांक  of different systems around the  संसार  ,  जिससे   यहूद   प्रायः   असंगत  .
Since  the  mid-2000s ,  a  number  of  initiatives  have  allowed debit  ताश  issued in  एक  country to  be  used in  अन्य  countries and  अनुमत  their use  लिये  internet  और  phone purchases  .
Unlike  क्रेडिट  and charge cards , payments using a debit card are immediately  transferred  from the cardholder  's  designated bank account , instead of  उन्हें  paying the  धन  back at  a  later  तिथि  .
Debit cards  प्रायः  also  allow  for instant withdrawal of  नकदी  ,  एक्टिंग  as the ATM card  लिये  withdrawing cash  .
Merchants may  भी  offer cashback facilities  to  customers , where  a  customer  can   withdraw   नकदी  along with  उनके   खरीदें  .
francois   henri  `` Jack  ''   lalanne   (   सितंबर   26  ,  1914  -  जनवरी  23 , 2011  )   थी  an  अमरीकी  fitness  ,  exercise ,  और  nutritional expert  और   प्रेरक  speaker who  is  sometimes called ``  the   गॉडफादर   of   फ़िटनेस   ''  and  the  ``  पहला   फ़िटनेस  superhero . ''
he  described  खुद   as  being a `` sugarholic '' and a ``  जंक  food junkie '' until he was  15   .
He  भी  had behavioral  समस्याएं  , but  ``  turned his life around ''  बाद   सुनना   to   a   पब्लिक  lecture by  पॉल  Bragg  ,   a  well-known nutrition  स्पीकर  .
During his career , he  आए  to believe that the  देश  's  overall  health  depended   on  the health  of   इसके  population  ,   लिखने  that ``  शारीरिक  culture  और   पोषण  — is the  मोक्ष   of  America . ''
दशकों   पहले  health  और   फ़िटनेस  began  होने  promoted by celebrities like  जेन   फोंडा  and  रिचर्ड   सीमन्स   ,   lalanne   थी   already  widely recognized for publicly preaching the  स्वास्थ्य   लाभ  of regular  कसरत   और  a good diet .
he   प्रकाशित  numerous  किताबे   on   फ़िटनेस  and  hosted  a fitness television  दिखाएँ   between  1953  और  1985  .
As  जल्दी  as 1936  ,  at  आयु  21 , he opened one  of  the nation 's first  फ़िटनेस  gyms  in   ओकलैंड  ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , which became a  प्रोटोटाइप  for dozens  of  similar gyms using his  नाम   .
One of his 1950s television exercise programs was  aimed   toward  women , whom he  भी  encouraged to  जुड़ें   उसके  health  क्लब  .
He invented a number of exercise machines  ,   सहित   leg-extension  and  चरखी  devices .
besides   producing   उसके  own series  of  videos , he coached the elderly  और  disabled not to forgo  कसरत  ,  believing  it would  enable   उन्हें  to enhance  उनके   शक्ति  .
LaLanne  भी  gained  मान्यता  for his  कामयाबी   as   a  bodybuilder  ,   as   खूब  as for his prodigious  feats  of strength .
अर्नाल्ड   श्वार्ज़नेगर   एकबार  stated  ,  ``  कि   जोकर   lalanne  's an animal ! ,  ''  after LaLanne  ,  at 54  ,  beat a  21-year-old  Schwarzenegger ``  badly  '' in an  अनौपचारिक  contest .
on   the   अवसर  of LaLanne 's death  ,  Schwarzenegger credited LaLanne for  होने  `` an apostle  लिये   फ़िटनेस  ''  by   प्रेरणादायी  ``  अरबों   सब   over  the world  to  live  healthier  lives , ''  और  , as governor of California  ,  had earlier  लगाई  him on his Governor 's Council  on  Physical  फ़िटनेस   .
Steve  रीव्स  credited LaLanne as his inspiration  to   निर्माण  his muscular  physique  while  keeping   a  slim waist .
He was inducted  to   the  California Hall of  कीर्ति   और  has a star on the  हॉलीवुड  Walk of Fame .
Air  शक्तियां   of   सबसे  of  the   देशों  use system similar to  सेना  .
However , the  raf  and  the  air  शक्तियां   of  many Commonwealth countries ,  or  those formerly under a British influence  ,   उपयोग  a different  नियत  of  बाँधने  loosely  आधारित  on naval  समतुल्यता  ;  लेफ्टिनेंट   ,  Commander  ,  Captain and  commodore  are prefixed  लिये  air  फ़ोर्स   उपयोग   साथ  Flight , Wing , Group  और  Air  ,  respectively (  the  first three being the  इकाई  that they used to command  )  .
पेनेलोपे  Cruz Sánchez  (  ; born April 28 ,  1974   )   is   a  Spanish actress  .
Signed by an  एजेंट   at   आयु  15 , she made her acting  डेब्यू   at  16 on  टेलीविज़न  and her feature film  डेब्यू   the  following year in  jamón  , jamón  (  1992 )  ,   to  critical  acclaim  .
उसके   subsequent  roles  in   the  1990s and  2000s  included  खोलें  Your Eyes  (   1997  )  ,   the  Hi-Lo  देश   (  1999  )  , The Girl of Your Dreams ( 2000 )  और  Woman on Top  (  2000 )  .
Cruz achieved recognition for her  सीसे  roles  in   the  2001 films  वैनिला  Sky  और   उड़ा  .
She has since built  a   कामयाब  career  ,   appearing  in films  इससे  a wide range of genres ,  सहित   the  comedy Waking Up in  रेनो  ( 2002 )  ,  the  थ्रिलर  Gothika  (  2003  )   ,  the Christmas movie  नोएल   (  2004  )   ,  and the action adventure  सहारा  ( 2005 )  .
She  रै  received critical acclaim  लिये  her roles  in  Volver ( 2006 ) and  नौ   (   2009   )   receiving  Golden Globe  और  Academy Award  nominations  for  प्रत्येक  .
वो  won  the  Academy Award for  बेहतरीन  Supporting  अभिनेत्री   in  2008  लिये  Vicky Cristina Barcelona .
She was  the  first Spanish actress  in   इतिहास   to   प्राप्त   an  Academy Award and  the  first  स्पेनी  actress to  प्राप्त  a star at the Hollywood  चलना  of Fame  .
क्रूज़   रै  modeled for companies  ऐसे  as  आम   ,   ralph   लॉरेन  and  l'oréal  .
Penélope and her younger sister  mónica  Cruz  have   designed  items  लिये   आम   .
वो  has donated  दोनो   उसके  time and money  to  charities  .
Cruz has volunteered  in  Uganda and India  ,   जहाँ  she  खर्च  one  सप्ताह   working  for Mother Teresa  ;  she donated  उसके   सैलरी  from  '  to help  निधि   the   लेट   नन   's  mission .
A  मोम   मूर्तिकला  of Cruz  होगा  be placed in  a  premier  स्पॉट  in the Grevin  मोम  Museum in  पेरिस   .
File Explorer , previously  ज्ञात   as  Windows Explorer ,  is  a  संचिका   मैनेजर  application and also a navigation tool that is included with  रिलीज  of the Microsoft  खिड़कियाँ  operating  प्रणाली   इससे   खिड़कियाँ   95   onwards   .
It provides  a  graphical  उपयोक्ता  interface for accessing the file systems .
It is also  the   घटक   of  the operating system that  presents  many user interface  वस्तुएं  on the  मॉनिटर  such as the taskbar and  डेस्कटॉप  .
Controlling the computer is  संभावित   बगैर  Windows Explorer running (  लिये   उदाहरण   ,   the   संचिका  |  चलाएं  command in Task Manager on  nt-derived  versions  of  Windows  होगा   फलन   बगैर  it  ,  as  होगा   कमांड  typed in a  कमांड  prompt  खिड़की  )  .
Located in the C  :  \Windows directory  ,  it is sometimes  referred  to as the Windows  शेल   ,   explorer.exe   ,  or  बस  “Explorer” .
The Care Bears  हैं  characters created by American Greetings in 1981  लिये   उपयोग  on greeting  ताश  .
The original artwork for  the  cards  थी   चित्रित  by  कलाकार   एलेना  Kucharik .
in  1983 , Kenner turned the Care Bears into plush teddy bears  .
the   परवाह  Bears  appeared   in  their own TV specials called The Care Bears in  the  Land Without Feelings ( 1983 )  और   the  Care Bears Battle the Freeze  यंत्र   (  1984 ) .
वे  also had their  अपना   टेलीविज़न   श्रेणी   इससे   1985  to 1988  ,   in  addition  to   तीन  feature  films   :  The Care  bears   फिल्म   (  1985  )  ,  परवाह  Bears  फिल्म  II  :  A New  पीढी   (  1986 ) ,  और   the  Care Bears Adventure  in   वंडरलैंड   (  1987 ) .
Each Care Bear comes  in   a  different  रंग   और  has  a  specialized insignia on  इसके  belly  कि  represents its  ड्यूटी  and personality .
इस  insignia was known as  उनके   ``   tummy  symbol . ''
however  , the movie Care  bears  : Oopsy Does It  !  renamed them  ``  belly  बैज   ''   .
Adding to the  परवाह  Bear family are  the  `` Care  भालू   cousins  '' , which  विशेषता  a lion  ,  rabbit ,  पेंगुइन  , raccoon ,  और  other such  पशु  created  in  the same  स्टाइल  as the teddy  bears   .
In 2002 , the  bears  were reintroduced with new  खिलौने   .
बना   by  Play-Along Toys , the new toys offered features  ऐसे   as  illuminated  bellies  upon  टच   ,  aerobic bears , and  glow-in-the-dark   bears  .
As part  of  this  वापसी  ,  the  Bears have appeared in two  computer-animated  movies :  परवाह   bears   :  Journey  to   joke-a-lot   (  2004 ) and The  परवाह   bears   '   बिग  Wish  फिल्म  ( 2005 ) .
in  2007 ,  the   मताधिकार   मनाये  its 25th anniversary  ;  another relaunch  took   प्लेस  ,  as  well  as   the   रिलीज  of  परवाह   bears  : Oopsy Does It ! .
in   mid-2011   ,  AG  घोषित  a revival TV animated  श्रेणी  titled ``  परवाह  Bears : Welcome to  care-a-lot  ``  .
The premiere of the series utilizes ``  30  years of caring  ''  .
it  premiered on The Hub  on  June  2   ,   2012  .
As of  2013  ,  परवाह   bears  merchandise  is   स्टिल   होने  marketed .
During  2008  and  2009  , Canada 's Cookie Jar  समूह  and France 's MoonScoop Group attempted  to  acquire the  मताधिकार   इससे   agc  , with no apparent  कामयाबी  .
Interstate 70 (  i-70   )   is  an Interstate Highway in the  संयुक्त  States  कि  runs  इससे  Interstate 15  निकट  Cove Fort ,  यूटा   ,   to   a  Park  और  Ride  निकट  Baltimore , Maryland  .
It  थी   the  first  अंतरराज्यीय   राजमार्ग   प्रोजेक्ट  in the United  राज्य   .
I-70  लगभग   traces   the   पाथ   of  U.S.  रूट   40  (  और  also  the   बूढ़ा  National Road ) east  of  the Rocky Mountains  .
West  of  the Rockies ,  the  route of  i-70  was  निकला   इससे  multiple sources  .
I-70  is  the  पांचवां   longest   अंतरराज्यीय  Highway , after I-90 , I-80 ,  i-40  , and I-10  .
the  construction of I-70 in Colorado  और  Utah  is  considered an  अभियान्त्रिकी  marvel  as  the route  गुजरता   through  the  आइज़नहावर   टनल   ,   glenwood  Canyon ,  और   the  San Rafael Swell .
The Eisenhower Tunnel  is  the highest  पाइंट   साथ   the   अंतरराज्यीय   राजमार्ग  system with an elevation of .
the  sections  of  the interstate  in   मिसौरी   और   कान्सास  have  रखी  claim to  be  the  पहला  interstate  in  the  संयुक्त  States .
Though disputed  ,   the   संघीय  Highway Administration  रै  claimed  the  section of  i-70   through  Glenwood Canyon  ,  completed in 1992 , was the  पिछला   टुकड़ा  of the Interstate  राजमार्ग   प्रणाली  , as originally planned , to open  to  traffic .
फ़ोटो  of 1999 total eclipse
as   देखी   इससे   the   धरती   ,  a solar  ग्रहण   occurs  when the Moon  गुजरता   between  the Sun and  धरती  ,  और  the  चंद्रमा   fully  or  partially  blocks ( `` occults  ``  ) the Sun  .
इस  can happen  तभी  at  नई  moon  ,   जब  the  सूर्य   और   the  Moon are  in   संयोजन   as  seen  इससे  Earth in  an  alignment referred  to  as  syzygy   .
In  a  total  ग्रहण   ,  the  डिस्क  of  the   सूर्य   is   fully  obscured by  the  Moon .
In partial and annular eclipses only part of the  सूर्य   is  obscured  .
If the  चंद्रमा   यहूद  in  a  perfectly circular  कक्षा  ,  a  little closer  to   the   धरती  , and  in   the  same orbital  प्लेन  , there would  be  total  सौर  eclipses  प्रत्येक  single month  .
However ,  the  Moon 's orbit is inclined  (  tilted  )   at  more than  5  degrees  to  Earth  's   कक्षा   around  the  सूर्य   (   देखिए  ecliptic )  so   इसके  shadow  at  new moon usually  चूकें   धरती   .
Earth 's orbit  is   पुकारा  the  ecliptic   प्लेन   as   the  Moon  's  orbit  जरूर   क्रॉस  this  प्लेन   in  order for  an   ग्रहण   (   दोनो  solar  as  well as  चंद्र  )  to  occur  .
in  addition  ,  the Moon 's actual orbit is elliptical , often taking it  दूर  enough  दूर   इससे  Earth that its apparent  आकार  is not large enough  to  block the Sun  totally   .
The  कक्षीय   planes   क्रॉस   प्रत्येक  year  at   a  line of  नोड  resulting  in   at  least two  ,  and  up  to five , solar eclipses occurring each year ; no more  than   दो  of which can  be  total eclipses .
however   ,  total  सौर   eclipses   हैं  rare at  कोई  particular  स्थान  because totality  exists  only along  a   सीमित  path on  धरती  's  सतह   traced   by   the  Moon  's  shadow or umbra .
An eclipse  is   a  natural phenomenon  .
Nevertheless  ,  in some ancient and modern cultures , solar eclipses have been  attributed   to  supernatural  कल्याणकारी   or   regarded   as   ख़राब   शकुनों  .
a  total  सौर   ग्रहण  can  be  frightening  to  people  जो   हैं   बेखबर   of   इसके  astronomical  स्पष्टीकरण  ,  as  the  सूर्य  seems  to   गायब  during  the  day and  the  sky  darkens   in  a matter  of   मिनट्स   .
क्युकी  it  is  dangerous to look  सीधे  at the  सूर्य   ,   observers  should use special  नजर   सुरक्षा   or   अप्रत्यक्ष  viewing  तकनीकों  when viewing  a  partial  ग्रहण   ,  or the partial phases of a total  ग्रहण  .
It  is  safe to view the  कुल   phase   of  a total  सौर   ग्रहण   साथ   the  unaided eye and  बगैर  protection , however .
People  referred   to   as   ग्रहण  chasers  or  umbraphiles will  सफर  to remote  स्थितियाँ  to  observe   or  witness  पूर्वानुमानित   सेंट्रल  solar eclipses  .
A political party (  इससे  ,  genitive  partis , ``  भाग  ''  ,  ``  portion  ''  )  is  a   राजनैतिक  organization  कि  typically seeks to  influence  ,  or  entirely control , government  नीति  ,  प्रायः  by nominating candidates with  लकीर   राजनैतिक  views and  trying  to  सीट  them  in   राजनैतिक  office .
Parties participate in  चुनावी  campaigns  और  educational  मंगवाने   or   विरोध  actions  .
पार्टियों   प्रायः   espouse   an   विचारधारा  or vision , expressed in  a  party program , bolstered by a written  मंच  with  विशिष्ट  goals  ,   forming  a coalition  among  disparate  रूचि   .
The mango  is   a   मांसल   स्टोन   फल   belonging  to the  genus   mangifera  , consisting  of   numerous   तीव्र  fruiting trees in  the   flowering  plant family  anacardiaceae   .
The mango is  देशी  to South  एशिया  ,  इससे  where it  रै  been  वितरित   विश्वव्यापी  to become  एक  of  the  most  cultivated   फल  in the tropics .
जबकि  other Mangifera species  (   e.g   .  horse mango ,  M.  foetida )  हैं   भी   grown   on  a more  स्थानीयकृत  basis ,  mangifera   इंडिका  – the 'common mango  '   or  'Indian mango '  –   is   the   तभी  mango tree  commonly   cultivated  in many tropical  और  subtropical  regions  .
it  is the national  फल  of India ,  पाकिस्तानी  and Philippines .
In several cultures , its fruit and leaves are ritually used  as  floral decorations  at   विवाह   ,  public celebrations and  धार्मिक  ceremonies  .
गिल  Arnette Byrd  ,  < ref name  >  http : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/B/ByrdGi00.htm  (   born  February  20  ,  1961   in   सैन  Francisco ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ) is  a   पूर्व   पेशेवर  American  फ़ुटबॉल  player  .
he   थी   a  two  समय  Pro  कटोरी   cornerback  in 1991 and  1992  for  the   सैन   डिएगो  Chargers after graduating from San Jose  राज्य  University .
Byrd  थी  inducted into the Chargers  हॉल  of  कीर्ति   in   1998   .
He was  an   all-city  running  वापस   और  defensive back  at  Lowell  ऊँची   स्कूल  ( San  फ्रांसिस्को  ) ,  helping  to lead  the  Cardinals  to  the city  चैंपियनशिप   in  his senior season of 1978 .
संसार  map  प्रर्दशित  the Tropic  of   कर्कट
The  tropic   of  Cancer , also referred  to  as the Northern tropic  ,  is the  वृत्त  of latitude on the Earth that marks the most northerly position at  जिससे  the Sun  may  appear directly  ओवरहेड  at  इसके   zenith   .
This event occurs once  प्रति  year  ,  at the  समय  of the June solstice  ,  when  the  Northern  गोलार्ध  is tilted toward the Sun to its  अधिकतम   extent  .
It currently ( Year 2013  )   झूठ  at  23°  26′ 15.143′′ north  of  the Equator .
Its  दक्षिणी   गोलार्ध   बंटवारा  , marking  the  most  southerly  position  at   जिससे   the  Sun may appear  सीधे  overhead ,  is   the  Tropic of Capricorn .
These tropics are  दो  of the  पाँच   प्रमुख  degree  उपायों  or  प्रमुख  circles of  अक्षांश   कि   चिह्नित   मानचित्र  of the Earth  ,  besides  the   आर्कटिक   और  Antarctic Circles  और   the  Equator .
the   स्थितियाँ   of  these  वृत्त   of   अक्षांश   (   अन्य   than  the Equator ) are  लिखवाई  by the tilt  of   the  Earth  's   अक्ष  of rotation  सापेक्ष   to  the  प्लेन  of its orbit .
dvd-video  is  a  consumer video format used to store digital video on  dvd  discs , and is currently the dominant consumer video format  in   एशिया  ,  उत्तर   अमेरिका  , Europe , and Australia .
Discs using the DVD-Video  specification   आवश्यकता   a  DVD drive and  an  H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g. , a  dvd  player ,  or  a  कंप्यूटर   dvd  drive with a software DVD player ) .
Commercial DVD movies  हैं  encoded  using  a  संयोजन  of H.262/MPEG-2  भाग   2   संपीडित   वीडियो  and  ऑडियो   of  varying formats  (   प्रायः  multi-channel  स्वरुप   as   वर्णित   नीचे  ) .
typically  ,  the  data rate for DVD movies ranges  इससे  3 Mbit/s  to  9.5 Mbit/s  ,   और  the bit rate  is   प्रायः  adaptive  .
it   थी   पहला   उपलब्धियाँ   लिये  retail around  1997  .
the   dvd-video  specification was created by DVD  फ़ोरम  and can  be   प्राप्त  from DVD Format/Logo Licensing  निगम  for  a   शुल्क  of $ 5,000  .
The  specification   is  not publicly  उपलब्धियाँ   ,  because  प्रत्येक  subscriber  जरूर   चिह्न  a non-disclosure agreement  .
Certain  सूचना   in  the  dvd  Book is  मालिकाना  and  गोपनीय  .
In computing and  specifically  Internet  ,   a   जोंक  is one who benefits  ,  usually deliberately ,  इससे   अन्य   '  information or  प्रयत्न  but  करता   नहीं  offer anything in return , or  makes  only  टोकन   offerings   in   an  attempt to  avoid  being  पुकारा   a   जोंक  .
In economics ,  इस  type of behavior is called ``  फ़्री   सवारी  '' and is associated with  the  free rider problem  .
Depending on context , leeching  करता  not necessarily refer to  illegal  use  of  computer  संसाधन   ,   लकिन   प्रायः  instead  to  greedy use according to etiquette : to wit ,  using  too much  of   कया   is  freely given  बगैर  contributing a reasonable amount back to the  जातियाँ  that provides  it  .
The name derives from the  जोंक  , an animal that  झंझट   रक्त  and then tries to leave unnoticed .
Other terms are  प्रयुक्त  ,  ऐसे  as `` freeloader '' ,  लकिन  leech is  the   सबसे  common  .
The  पूरा  eagle  लोगो   ,   प्रयुक्त  in various versions from 1970  to  1993  .
the   संयुक्त  States Postal Service (  usps  ) , also  ज्ञात  as the Post Office and  u.S.   मेल  , is  an  independent agency  of   the  United States federal  सरकारी  responsible for  providing   डाक   सेवा  in the United  राज्य   .
it  is one of the few government agencies  explicitly   प्राधिकृत   by  the United  राज्य   संविधान  .
The  usps  traces  इसके  roots  to   1775  during the Second  महाद्वीपीय   कॉंग्रेस   ,  where  बेंजामिन  Franklin  थी   नियुक्त  the first postmaster general .
the   cabinet-level  Post Office Department  थी  created in 1792 from  फ्रैंकलिन  's operation  और   रूपांतरित  into its current form in  1971   अंतर्गत   the   डाक   reorganization   अधिनियम   .
the  USPS  employs  over  574,000  workers  और   operates  over 260,000 vehicles .
the  USPS  is   the   ऑपरेटर   of  the  largest  vehicle fleet in  the   संसार  .
the  USPS is  legally  obligated to serve all  अमेरिकी  ,  regardless   of   भूगोल   ,  at uniform  दाम  and  विशेषता   .
The  usps  has  विशेष  access to letter boxes  चिह्नित  `` U.S.  मेल  '' and personal letterboxes  in  the United States  ,  but  स्टिल   competes   विरूद्ध  private  पैकेज  delivery  सेवाएं   ,   ऐसे   as  UPS and FedEx  .
The USPS has not directly  प्राप्त   taxpayer-dollars  since  the   जल्दी  1980s with  the  minor  एक्सेप्शन   of  subsidies for costs  संबद्ध  with the disabled and overseas voters .
Since the  2006  all-time  शिखर  mail volume ,  बाद  which Congress  passed  the Postal  जवाबदेही   और  Enhancement  अधिनियम   ``  ,  (   जिससे   mandated   $   5.5   अरब   प्रति   साल   to   be  paid  into  an  खाता  to  pre-fund  retiree  health-care  , 75 years into  the  future  ,  a  आवश्यकता   अद्वितीय  among organizations  और  businesses in the U.S. )  ,  revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced  घटती  mail volume  ,   prompting   the  postal service to look  to   अन्य  sources of revenue while  कटिंग  costs to  reduce   इसके   बजट  deficit  .
वॉशिंगटन  ,  d.C.  has been  the  capital of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  since 1800  .
आठ   अन्य   शहरों   have  served as the meeting  प्लेस   लिये  Congress and are therefore considered  to  have once been  the   पूंजी  of the United States .
in  addition , each of  the   50  U.S. states and the five  प्रिंसिपल   territories   of  the United States  maintains   इसके   अपना  capital .
राजकुमारी  cut  डायमंड  set in  a  ring
the   राजकुमारी   काटें  is the second most popular cut shape  लिये  diamonds , next to  a  round  शानदार  .
The face-up  आकार  of the princess  काटें   is   वर्गाकार  or rectangular and the  प्रोफ़ाइल  or side-on  आकार   is   समान  to that of an  उलट  pyramid  साथ   चार   beveled  sides  .
The  राजकुमारी  cut  is   a   अपेक्षाकृत   नई  diamond  काटें   ,  having been created  in   the  1960s .
it  has gained in popularity  in  recent years as a  अधिक  distinctive alternative  to  the more popular  गोलाकार  brilliant  काटें  ,  in  which  the   शीर्ष  of  डायमंड  , called the  क्राउन  , is cut with a round face-up shape and the  नीचे  , called the pavilion , is  तराशा   समान  to  a   कोन  .
a  princess  काटें  with the same  चौडाई  as the diameter of a  गोलाकार  brilliant will weigh more  as  it  रै  four corners which would otherwise have  महरूम  cut off  और  rounded to form  a  round  शानदार  .
The princess  काटें  is sometimes  referred  to as  a   वर्गाकार  modified brilliant  .
However  ,   जबकि  displaying the same high degree  of   brilliance  , its faceting style  is   अद्वितीय  and completely different  इससे  that of a round brilliant  .
The Princess  काटें   था  its origins in the  जल्दी   ``   फ्रेंच   ''   काटें  , having a  step-modified   ``  Double-French  ''  or  ``  Cross '' cut crown  और  a  श्रेणी   of  unique , chevron-shaped  facets   in  the  मण्डप  which combine to give  a   पृथक  cross-shaped reflection when the stone  is  viewed directly  through  the table  .
Effectively ,  the  Princess cut combines the high degree  of   लाइट  return of  a  round  शानदार  cut with  a  distinctive  वर्गाकार   or  rectangular  आकार   .
The  वर्गाकार   राजकुमारी   काटें  diamond is usually slightly cheaper  than   गोलाकार  brilliant  काटें  diamonds of the  वही   कैरेट  weight because it retains about 80 % of  the  rough  डायमंड  ,  as  opposed to the round  शानदार  which retains  तभी   परिचय  50 %  of   the  rough  .
The ability  to  retain  अधिक   क्रिस्टल  weight  makes  this shape popular amongst  डायमंड   cutters  .
Accredited Gem  appraisers  ( AGA  )   और  American  gem   समाज  Laboratory ( AGSL )  और   यूरोपीय   gem   laboratories-usa  ( EGL-USA  )  are currently  the  only labs  कि  grade the Princess cut  लिये   काटें  .
There is no universal  परिभाषा  of  कया  measurements  मेक   an   आदर्श  princess cut  डायमंड   और  many diamond manufacturers market  आदर्श   ईंट   साथ  differing facet patterns  और   कोण   as   ``  ideal cut '' .
In contrast to the AGSL , AGA , and EGL-USA the Gemological  संस्थान  of  अमेरिका  ( GIA  )  has  stated  that  वहीँ  is  नहीं  enough  उद्योग   सर्वसम्मति  or  अनुभवजन्य   आंकड़ा  to  बताएँ  cut grading standards for  राजकुमारी   काटें  diamonds and  to  do  so   is  at the  रिस्क  of  उपभोक्ता   जो  may be  धोखे  by diamonds  accompanied   by   निर्गुण  Ideal or Excellent cut  ग्रेड   .
the   नाम   ``  Princess Cut '' was originally used  in  connection  साथ   another   डायमंड  cut , otherwise known  as  the ``  प्रोफ़ाइल  '' cut  ,   designed  by Arpad  nagy   ,   a   लंदन   कटर  , in 1961  .
The same name was later  प्रयुक्त  and made popular by  ygal  Perlman  ,   betzalel   ambar  ,  और  Israel Itzkowitz in Israel  in   1979  .
A similar cut with  तभी   49   facets  , as opposed  to  the  असली  58  facets  of  the  princess cut ,  थी   बाद  branded  the  `` Quadrillion  ''  and initially  वितरित  by Ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles .
Three years  of   ऑप्टिकल  research  yielded   a  square  स्टोन   साथ   faceting   समान   to  that of a round brilliant  काटें   डायमंड  .
a   तुलना
The number of chevrons can  affect   the   overall   आउटलुक  of  a  princess  काटें  diamond .
इस  can  प्रायः  be  संकल्पित  by the wire diagram that  is   plotted   in  diamond  ग्रेडिंग   रिपोर्ट्स  .
By  adding   अधिक  chevrons  on  the pavilion side  of  the diamond ,  the  individual facets  of  the  डायमंड  will  अभी  be broken  bas   into  smaller  facets   .
as  a result , it can  दे   a   राजकुमारी   काटें   डायमंड  a `` crushed ice  ''   dekh  .
वाइस  versa , when a princess cut  डायमंड  has lesser chevrons , it tends to  दे   the  diamond a chunky outlook due  to   broader   facets   .
The  घरेलू  dog  (   canis   lupus   familiaris   )  is  a  subspecies  of   the  gray  भेड़िया  (  canis   lupus  ) ,  a   सदस्य  of  the  Canidae family  of   the   mammalian   अनुक्रम  Carnivora .
the   पद  `` domestic dog '' is  generally  used for both domesticated  और  feral varieties  .
the   श्वान  has  महरूम  the  पहला   एनिमल   to   be   domesticated  and has been the most widely  रखा  working  ,  hunting  ,  and pet animal in human history .
The  शब्द  `` dog  ''  may  भी  mean the male of a  canine  species , as  opposed   to  the  शब्द  ``  कुतिया  ''  लिये  the female  of   the  species .
mtdna  evidence shows an evolutionary  विभाजित  between  the  modern  श्वान  's lineage and the modern  भेड़िया   's  lineage around  100,000  years  पहले  but , , the oldest  चट्टान  specimens  genetically  linked to the modern dog 's lineage  तिथि  to approximately  33,000-36,000   सालो  ago  .
Dogs ' value to early  इंसान  hunter-gatherers led to  उन्हें  quickly  बनने  ubiquitous  आरपार   संसार  cultures  .
Dogs perform  अनेक   भूमिकाएँ  for  लोगों  ,  ऐसे   as   शिकार  , herding , pulling loads  ,   सुरक्षा   ,  assisting  पुलिस  and  सैन्य   ,  companionship , and ,  अधिक  recently ,  aiding  handicapped  individuals  .
This  प्रभाव   on   इंसान   समाज  has given them  the   उपनाम   ``  Man  's  Best  dost  ''  in  the Western  संसार  .
in  some cultures  ,   कुत्तो   हैं  also a source  of  meat .
In  2001   ,  there  यहूद  estimated to be  400   लाख  dogs  in  the  संसार   .
सबसे  breeds  of  dogs are at  सबसे  a few  सौ   सालो   बूढ़ा  ,  having   महरूम   artificially  selected for  particular  morphologies and behaviors  by  people for  विशिष्ट   कार्यात्मक  roles  .
Through this selective breeding  ,  the  श्वान  has  विकसित  into hundreds  of  varied breeds , and  shows   अधिक   behavioral   और   morphological   विभिन्नता  than  कोई  other land mammal .
लिये  example ,  ऊँचाई  measured to  the   withers  ranges  इससे  in  the  Chihuahua to about  in   the  Irish Wolfhound  ;  color  varies  from  श्वेत  through grays ( usually  पुकारा   ``  blue  ''   )   to   ब्लैक  , and  भूरा   इससे   लाइट  (  तन  ) to dark  (   ``  red ''  or  ``  चॉकलेट   ''   )  in a wide variation  of   पैटर्न   ;   coats  can be short  or   long  , coarse-haired to wool-like ,  सीधा   ,  curly ,  or   चिकना   .
It is common  लिये  most  breeds   to   शेड  this coat .
आरेख  of  a   हस्तांतरण   इलेक्ट्रॉन  microscope
A 1973  siemens   इलेक्ट्रॉन  microscope ,  musée  des  कला   et  Métiers , Paris
an   इलेक्ट्रॉन  microscope ( EM )  is   a   प्रकार  of microscope that  उपयोग  an electron  बीम   to   illuminate  a specimen  और   उपज   a  magnified image  .
An EM  रै   वृहद   resolving  power  than  a light  सूक्ष्मदर्शी  and can reveal the structure  of  smaller  वस्तुएँ   क्युकी  electrons have wavelengths about 100,000  टाइम्स  shorter than visible  लाइट  photons  .
वे   can   achieve  better than  50   pm  resolution  और  magnifications of up  to  about 10,000,000x  whereas   ordinary   ,  non-confocal  लाइट  microscopes  हैं  limited by  विवर्तन  to about  200   nm  resolution and useful magnifications below 2000x .
The  इलेक्ट्रॉन  microscope  उपयोग   electrostatic   और  electromagnetic lenses to control  the  electron beam and focus  it  to  रूप  an image .
ये   इलेक्ट्रॉन  optical  lenses  are analogous to the  कांच   lenses   of   a  light  ऑप्टिकल  microscope  .
Electron microscopes are  प्रयुक्त   to   investigate  the  ultrastructure  of  a   चौड़ी  range of biological and inorganic  नमूनों  including microorganisms ,  कोशिकाएं  , large  अणुओं  , biopsy samples ,  धातुओं  , and  crystals  .
Industrially  ,   the   इलेक्ट्रॉन  microscope is often  प्रयुक्त   लिये  quality  कंट्रोल   और   विफलता   विश्लेषण   .
Modern  इलेक्ट्रॉन  microscopes  उपज  electron micrographs , using  specialized   डिजिटल  cameras or frame  grabbers   to   कैप्चर   the  image .
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen  is   a  chain of fried chicken  तेज़  food restaurants founded in 1972  in  New  ऑरलियन्स   ,  Louisiana .
Often referred  to  as  popeyes   और   sometimes   as  Popeyes Chicken  &  Biscuits or  popeyes  Chicken & Seafood ,  it   थी  acquired by Sandy  स्रोतों  ,  जॉर्जिया   -आधारd  AFC Enterprises , originally America  's  Favorite Chicken  कम्पनी   ,  in 1993 .
According to  a  company press release  दिनाँक  June 29 , 2007  ,  Popeyes  is  the  second-largest  `` quick-service chicken restaurant group , measured by number  of   इकाई  '' ,  साथ   अधिक   than   1,800  restaurants  in  more  than  40 states  और  the  ज़िला  of Columbia ,  और   over   22  countries  विश्वव्यापी   सहित   तुर्कों  , Northern  साइप्रस  ,  बहरीन   ,  China , Hong  काँग  , Iraq ,  इंडोनेशिया  , Jordan ,  कुवैत   ,   संयुक्त  Arab  अमीरात   ,   जापानी   ,   मलेशिया   ,   सऊदी   अरब  , South  कोरियाई  ,  सिंगापुर  , Canada , Jamaica , Guyana , Suriname  ,  Mexico  ,   त्रिनिदाद  , Puerto  रीको  , Honduras ,  वियतनाम  , Panama  ,  Peru , and Costa  रिका  .
परिचय  thirty locations are company-owned  ,   the   बाकी   franchised  .
the   लेग  press is a weight  प्रशिक्षण  exercise  in  which the  व्यक्तिगत  pushes a weight  or   प्रतिरोध  away from them using  उनके   टाँगे  .
The term  लेग  press also  refers   to  the  apparatus   प्रयुक्त   to   perform   इस  exercise .
The  लेग   दबायें  can be used  to  evaluate  an  athlete 's overall lower body  शक्ति  ( from knee joint to hip ) .
Using  the  diagonal sled-type leg press machine  .
वहीँ  are  दो  main  प्रकार   of  leg  press:
the  diagonal or vertical 'sled  '   प्रकार  leg press .
Weight disks ( plates )  हैं   संलग्न   सीधे  to  the  sled ,  जिससे  is  आरोहित  on rails .
The  उपयोक्ता  sits  नीचे  the sled and pushes it  upward  with  उनके   फीट  .
ये   मशीने  normally include  समायोज्य   सुरक्षा   कोष्ठक  that  prevent  the user from being  फंस   अंतर्गत  the weight .
The 'cable '  प्रकार  leg press  ,   or   'seated   लेग   दबायें  '  ,  commonly  मिला  on multigyms  .
the   उपयोक्ता   sits  upright  और  pushes  आगे  with  उनके  feet  onto   a  plate  कि   is  attached to the weight stack by means of  a  long steel  केबल  .
Wendy Williams  शिकारी   (  born  वेन्डी   जोन  Williams ; July 18 , 1964  )   is  an American media  व्यक्तित्व   ,   अभिनेत्री   और   लेखक   .
वो  hosts a syndicated  टेलीविज़न  talk  दिखाएँ   ,  The  वेन्डी  Williams  दिखाएँ  .
Prior to television , Williams was  a  `` shock jockette  ``   on  several radio shows .
Williams  रै   gained   सुर्खी   लिये  her on-air spats with celebrities .
वो  was  the  subject of  the   2006  VH1 reality TV  श्रेणी   पुकारा  The Wendy Williams  अनुभव   जिससे   ब्रॉडकास्ट  events surrounding  उसके   रेडियो  show  .
She has written  an  autobiography  और  several  अन्य  books ,  और   रै  created  a  product line called Adorn by Wendy Williams .
Patrick Henry `` Treason ''  वाक  before  the  House of  burgesses  in  an  1851  पेंटिंग  by Peter F. Rothermel
``  दे   me   स्वतंत्रता  , or give  me   मौत  ! '' is a quotation attributed  to  Patrick  हेनरी   इससे  a speech he  बना  to the  वर्जिनिया  Convention .
on   कि  day , at  st.   जॉन  's Church in  रिचमंड   ,   वर्जिनिया  , and  is   credited  with having swung  the   संतुलन   in  convincing the Virginia House  of  Burgesses  to  pass a  रेज़ोल्यूशन   delivering  the  वर्जिनिया  troops  to  the  क्रांतिकारी  War  .
Among  the  delegates  to   the  convention were future  us   राष्ट्रपतियों  Thomas  जेफरसन  and  जार्ज  Washington .
Newfoundland  और  Labrador ( , locally ) is the easternmost province of  कनाडा   .
Situated  in   the   देश  's  अटलांटिक  region , it incorporates the island  of  Newfoundland and mainland Labrador  to  the northwest , with  a  combined area  of  .
in  2011  ,  the province 's population was 514,536  .
लगभग   92  percent of the province  's  population  जीवनदान   on   the  Island of  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  ( including its  संबद्ध  smaller islands ) ,  of  which more than  हाफ  live on the  avalon  Peninsula .
the  province is Canada 's  सबसे  linguistically homogenous  ,  with 97.6 % of residents  रिपोर्टिंग  English (  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड   अंग्रेज़ी  )  as   उनके   माँ  tongue in the 2006  जनसांख्यिकी  ; .
Historically  ,   न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड   थी   भी  home to unique  किस्में   of   फ्रेंच  ,  और   आयरिश   ,   as  well  as   the  now-extinct Beothuk  भाषा  .
In Labrador , local  dialects  of Innu-aimun and Inuktitut are also spoken  .
न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड   और  Labrador 's capital and largest  नगर   ,   st.  John 's , is Canada 's  20th-largest   जनसांख्यिकी  Metropolitan Area  ,  and is home to almost  40   प्रतिशत  of the  प्रांत  's population .
st.   जॉन   's  is the  सीट  of  सरकारी  , home  to  the  हाउस   of   सभा  of  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  and Labrador  और   the  highest court in the jurisdiction ,  the  Newfoundland and Labrador Court  of  Appeal  .
A former colony  और   डोमिनियन  of  the  United Kingdom , Newfoundland  और   labrador  became the  दसवाँ   प्रांत  to  डालें   the  Canadian Confederation on March 31  ,  1949  ,  as  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड   .
on  December  6  , 2001  ,   an   amendment  was made  to   the  Constitution of  कनाडा  to change  the  province 's official  नाम  to  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड   और  Labrador  .
in  day-to-day conversation , however ,  canadians  generally still refer to  the  province itself  as  Newfoundland  और  to the  प्रदेश  on  the  Canadian mainland as  labrador  .
Theodore  ``  T.R .  ''
Roosevelt ,  jr.  ( ; October 27 , 1858—January  6   ,   1919   )  was the 26th  अध्यक्ष   of  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   (  1901–1909  )   .
He is noted for  उसके  exuberant  व्यक्तित्व  , range  of  interests  और   उपलब्धियाँ   ,   और  his  नेतृत्व   of   the   प्रगतिशील  Movement  ,  as well  as   उसके  `` cowboy ``  persona   और  robust  मर्दानगी  .
he  was  a   नेता   of  the  रिपब्लिकन  Party and founder  of  the first incarnation of the short-lived Progressive (  ``   सांड  Moose '' ) Party of  1912  .
Before becoming President , he  आयोजित  offices  at   the   नगर  ,  राज्य   ,   और   संघीय  levels .
रूज़वेल्ट  's  उपलब्धियाँ   as  a naturalist  ,  explorer  ,  hunter ,  लेखक  , and soldier  हैं  as  much  a part of his  कीर्ति   as   कोई   दफ्तर  he held  as   a  politician .
रूज़वेल्ट  was  42  years  बूढ़ा   जब  sworn in as  अध्यक्ष  of the  संयुक्त  States in 1901  ,   बनाना   उसे  the youngest president ever  ;   he   ताल  out  the   youngest  elected  अध्यक्ष  ,  जॉन  F.  कैनेडी  ,  by  only one  साल   .
Roosevelt was also  the  first  of  only  तीन  sitting presidents  to  have won the  नोबेल  Peace Prize  .
The Teddy bear is named after  उसे  , despite his contempt  लिये  being called  ``  Teddy '' .
Born into  a  wealthy  परिवार  in  नई   यॉर्क   नगर  , Roosevelt  थी   a  sickly child  जो  suffered from  दमा   और   ठहरे   at   घर  studying  प्राकृतिक   इतिहास   .
to  overcome  उसके  physical  कमज़ोरी   ,  he  embraced   a  strenuous  जीवन   .
home-schooled   ,  he became an eager  छात्र   of  nature  .
He  attended   हार्वर्ड  University  ,  where  he  studied  जीवविज्ञान  , boxed and  विकसित  an interest in  नवल   अफेयर्स   .
In 1881 ,  एक  year out of Harvard ,  he  was elected  to  the  नई  York  राज्य   सभा  ,  जहाँ  he  became   a   नेता   of   the  reform faction  of  his Republican  पार्टी   (  the ``  gop   ''  )  .
उसके  The Naval  युद्ध  of 1812 ( 1882 ) established  उसके  professional  प्रतिष्ठा   as   a   गंभीर  historian  ;  he wrote numerous  किताबे   on  hunting  ,  the outdoors ,  और  current  राजनैतिक   मुद्दे  , as well as  frontier  history .
in  1884  ,   उसके   पहला   बीवी   और  his  माँ   died  on  the  same day .
He temporarily  बाएँ  politics  और  went to  the   frontier  ,  बनने  a rancher in the `` Badlands ''  in  the Dakotas  .
Returning to New York  नगर  , he ran for mayor in  1886  ,  finishing  third with 60,000 votes .
He later gained  कीर्ति  by  लेने  vigorous  चार्ज  of the  नगर   पुलिस   .
At the national level ,  he   थी   a  leader  in  civil  सेवा   सुधार  .
The Spanish–American War broke out in 1898 while Roosevelt was  ,   effectively  ,  कार्यशील   the   विभाग   of   the   नेवी  .
he  promptly  resigned   और  formed the  अशिष्ट  Riders – a  स्वयंसेवी  cavalry  रेजीमेंट  that fought in  क्यूबा   .
the  war  नायिका   थी   निर्वाचित  governor in 1898 and in 1900 was  मनोनीत  for  वाइस   अध्यक्ष  .
He  सफलतापूर्वक  energized the  gop  base as a  अत्यधिक  visible campaigner  to  reelect President  विलियम   mckinley  on  a  platform of  ऊँची  tariffs ,  the  gold standard , imperialism  ,  prosperity at home  और  victory  विदेश  .
In 1901 , President William McKinley was  assassinated  and Roosevelt became President .
He attempted  to   मूव  the Republican Party ( GOP )  toward   प्रगतिवाद  , including trust  busting  and increased regulation of businesses  .
Roosevelt  became   the   पहला  person elected  to  a  पद  in  उसके  own right  in   1904  after  having  ascended to  the  Presidency ( from the  vice-presidency  ) upon  the  death  of   उसके   पूर्ववर्ती  ,  जीतना  the  largest   प्रतिशत   of  the  लोकप्रिय  vote  चूंकि   the  uncontested election of 1820  .
रूज़वेल्ट  coined  the  phrase  ``  Square  सौदे   ``  to describe  उसके  domestic  कार्यसूची  , emphasizing that  the  average citizen would  मिलेंगी  a fair share under  उसके   नीतियों   .
As  an  outdoorsman and  naturalist  , he promoted the  संरक्षण   गति   .
On  the   संसार  stage , Roosevelt  's  policies were characterized  by  his  स्लोगन  ,  ``  Speak  softly  and  carry  a big  स्टिक  `` .
a  cousin is  a   सापेक्ष   साथ  whom a  व्यक्ति  shares one or  अधिक  common  पूर्वज   (  s )  (  other  than   a  parent  ,  child/descendant  ,   सहोदर  ,  child/descendant  of  a   सहोदर  , or  सहोदर  of a parent/ancestor  )  .
However in common  parlance  ,  ``   cousin  ''  सामान्यतः   specifically   अर्थात्  `` first cousin ''  .
Systems of `` degrees '' and ``  removals  '' are used  in   the   english-speaking   संसार   to  describe the exact  संबंध  between two cousins (  in   the  broad  भाव  ) and the  पूर्वज   वे   have   in  common .
विभिन्न  governmental  entities   have  established systems  लिये  legal  उपयोग  that can  अधिक   precisely  specify kinships with  आम  ancestors existing  कोई  number  of  generations in  the  past  ,  though common usage  प्रायः   eliminates  the degrees and  removals   और  refers to people  साथ   आम  ancestry as  बस   ``  distant cousins '' or  ``  relatives '' .
वेबस्टर  is an American situation comedy  कि   aired  on  एबीसी   इससे   सितंबर   16   ,   1983   जबतक   may   8  ,  1987   ,  and in first-run  अनुप्रयोग  from  सितंबर   21   ,   1987  until  कूच   10  , 1989  .
the   श्रेणी  was created by  stu  Silver .
The  दिखाएँ  stars Emmanuel Lewis in  the  title  भूमिका  as  a  young  लड़के  who , after losing  उसके  parents ,  is  adopted by his NFL  -pro  godfather ,  portrayed   by   एलेक्स  Karras  ,  and  उसके   नई  socialite  बीवी  ,  निभाई  by Susan Clark .
The  फ़ोकस  was largely on how this impulsively married couple  था  to adjust  to  their new lives  और  sudden parenthood , but  it  was the  अनुकूल   वेबस्टर  himself who  drove   much   of   the   प्लाट   .
The  श्रेणी  was produced  by  Georgian  खाड़ी  Ltd.  ,   emmanuel   लुईस  Entertainment  उद्यमों   ,  Inc. ( 1986-1989  )  and  सर्वोपरि  Television  .
जैसे  NBC 's  पहले   hit   diff'rent  Strokes , Webster featured a  यंग   african-american   लड़के   अपनाया   by   a   श्वेत  family .
तीन  types of  कोशिका  division
Cell division  is  the  प्रक्रम  by which a  जनक   कोशिका  divides into two or more daughter cells .
Cell  प्रभाग  usually  occurs  as part of  a   larger   कोशिका  cycle  .
In  eukaryotes  ,  वहीँ  are  दो  distinct type  of  cell  प्रभाग  : a vegetative division , whereby  प्रत्येक   बेटी   कोशिका   is  genetically identical  to  the  जनक  cell (  समसूत्रण   )  ,  और  a  reductive   कोशिका  division , whereby  the  number of chromosomes in the daughter cells  is  reduced by half  ,   to   उपज  haploid  गैमीट  (  meiosis  ) .
दोनो   of  these  कोशिका  division cycles  हैं  required in sexually  reproducing  organisms at some  पाइंट  in their life cycle ,  और  both are  believed   to  be present  in   the   पिछला  eukaryotic common ancestor  prokaryotes  also undergo a vegetative cell division known as binary fission ,  जहाँ   उनके  genetic material is  segregated   बराबर  into  दो  daughter cells .
All cell  विभाजन  ,  regardless   of  organism  ,   हैं  preceded by  a   सिंगल  round of  डीएनए  replication .
For simple unicellular  जीवों  such as  the  amoeba , one  कोशिका   प्रभाग  is  समतुल्य  to reproduction  –  an  संपूर्ण   नई  organism is created .
On a larger  स्केल  , mitotic  कोशिका  division  can   बनाएँ   progeny  from multicellular organisms  ,  such  as   पौधे   कि  grow  इससे   cuttings  .
कोशिका   प्रभाग  also  enables  sexually reproducing organisms to  develop  from the one-celled zygote  ,  which itself was produced by  कोशिका   प्रभाग  from gametes  .
And after  विकास  ,  कोशिका  division allows for continual construction  और  repair of  the   सजीव  .
a  human  होने   's   देह   अनुभवों   परिचय  10,000 trillion  कोशिका  divisions in  a   आजीवन   .
कोशिका  division has been modeled  by   परिमित  subdivision rules  .
the  primary  चिंता  of cell  प्रभाग  is the  मेंटेनेंस  of the original  कोशिका   's  genome .
पहले   प्रभाग  can  occur  ,  the  genomic  सूचना  that is stored in  गुणसूत्रों  must be  replicated  , and  the   duplicated  genome  जरूर   be  separated cleanly  between  cells  .
A great deal  of   सेल्यूलर   अवसंरचना   is  involved in  keeping   genomic  information consistent between `` generations  ''   .
Mountain ranges of Massachusetts  ,  United  राज्य   .
Howard Jones ( born John  हावर्ड  Jones  ,  23 February 1955 ,  southampton   ,   हैम्पशायर   ,   इंग्लैण्ड  ) is a British  संगीतकार  , singer and songwriter .
According to  the   गिनीज  Book  of   अंग्रेजों  Hit  singles  & Albums , `` Jones  is  an  संपन्नता   singer-songwriter   जो   थी  a  नियमित   चार्ट   आगंतुक  in the mid-1980s with his brand of synthpop  .
जोन्स  ,  जो   थी  equally  लोकप्रिय  in the  u.S.  ,  appeared  at Live Aid ``  .
Allmusic  पत्रकार   ,  Stephen  थामस  Erlewine adds , `` Jones was one of  the   धमक  figures  of  mid-1980s synthpop .
उसके  music merged  the   प्रौद्योगिकी   intensive  sound  of  New  वेव  with  the  cheery optimism of hippies  और  late 1960s  पॉप   .
Jones racked up a string of hits in the mid and late 1980s , before  he   retreated  into being a  cult  figure in  the  1990s  ''   .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Isle  of  Man  tt   (  Tourist  ट्रॉफी  )  रेस  is  a   मोटरसाइकिल   रेसिंग   इवेंट  held on the Isle  of  Man  और  was for  अनेक  years  the  most  prestigious   मोटरसाइकिल  race in the world .
The event was part  of  the  fim  Motorcycle Grand  प्रिक्स  World Championship during the  काल   1949–1976   पहले  being  transferred   to  the  संयुक्त   किंगडम  after  सुरक्षा   चिंताएं  and run  by   the   fim   as  the British Grand Prix  लिये   the   1977  season .
The  आइल   of   man   tt  Races  became   भाग  of the TT  सूत्र  1 Championship from  1977   to  1990 to preserve the event 's  रेसिंग  status  .
From  1989   the  racing has been  विकसित  by the Isle of Man Department of Tourism as the Isle  of  Man  tt  Festival .
The  रेस   is   चलाएं  in a time-trial format  on   पब्लिक  roads closed  लिये   रेसिंग  by the  प्रावधानों   of  an Act of  tynwald   (  the parliament of the Isle of Man ) .
the   पहला  race was held  on  Tuesday 28  may   1907   और  was called the International Auto-Cycle Tourist Trophy  .
The event was  संगठित  by the Auto-Cycle Club over 10  गोद   of   the  St John 's  छोटी  Course of 15  मील   1,470   गज   लिये   road-legal  touring motorcycles  साथ  exhaust silencers  ,   saddles   ,   pedals  and mud-guards .
The  विजेता  of the  single-cylinder  class ,  और  overall winner of  the   पहला   इवेंट  in  1907   ,  was Charlie  collier  riding  a  Matchless motorcycle in a  समय   of  4  घंटों  , 8 minutes and 8 seconds at an average  रेस  speed of  38.21  mph .
the  winner of  the   twin-cylinder   क्लास  was  rem   fowler  riding  a  Peugeot  एंजिन   नॉर्टन  in  a   समय   of  4 hours 21  मिनट्स  and 52 seconds at an  औसत   रेस   गति   of   36.21  mph .
the  trophy presented to Charlie Collier as the  विजेता  of  the  1907 Isle of Man TT  रेस   ,  was donated by the Marquis de Mouzilly  st.   मंगल  .
it   प्रदर्शित  a stylised  संस्करण  of Olympic God  hermes   by  Giovanni  da  Bologna  as  a silver figurine astride a winged  व्हील   .
The trophy  थी   समान  in design to the 18  कैरेट  gold Montague Trophy presented to John  नेपियर  ( Arrol-Johnston ) as  the   inaugural  winner  of  the Isle of  man  Tourist Trophy car race in 1905  अभी   ज्ञात   as  the RAC Tourist Trophy  .
the  Marquis de Mouzilly St.  मंगल   ट्रॉफी  is  अभी   प्रस्तुत  annually to  the   विजेता  of the Isle of Man  वरिष्ठ  TT Motor-Cycle Race  .
the  2007 Isle of Man  tt  was the Centenary event which ran between 26  may   और   8   जून  2007  और  featured a special  re-enactment   of  the  1907   आइल  of  man   tt   रेस  held on  the   गाँव   ग्रीन  next  to  Tynwald Hill in  st   जॉन  's  on  Monday 28  may   2007  .
The vintage parade  of  100 classic motorcycles  लिये  the Centenary  re-enactment  on the original  st  John  's  Short  कोर्स   थी  flagged away by former  संसार  Motor-Cycle Champion Geoff  ड्यूक  .
The first of the participants  to  be flagged away  थी  the recently  लौटी  twin-cylinder Peugeot-Norton  ridden  by Rem  fowler  during  the  first  आइल  of Man  tt  Race in 1907 .
Also participating in the 2007 Re-enactment  थी  TT  रेस   प्रतिस्पर्धी  Guy  मार्टिन  riding a 1938  triumph  Tiger 100  500   cc   और  other former  tt   प्रतिस्पर्धी  including Alan Cathcart  ,  Sammy Miller  ,   उपनाम  Jefferies and Mick Grant also completed the Re-enactment lap .
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or joblessness ) occurs  जब   लोगों  are  बगैर  work  और  actively  seeking   कार्य  .
the   बेरोजगारी  rate  is   a   माप  of the  व्यापकता  of  बेरोजगारी   और  it is calculated as a percentage by  dividing  the  क्रमांक  of  बेरोजगार  individuals by all individuals  फिलहाल  in  the   मजदूर   फ़ोर्स  .
During periods of recession  ,   an  economy  प्रायः  experiences  a   अपेक्षाकृत   ऊँची   बेरोजगारी  rate .
According  to  International Labour  संगठन  report , more  than  197 million people globally are out of  कार्य  or  6  %  of  the  संसार  's  workforce  were without a job  in  2012 .
There remains  considerable  theoretical debate regarding the causes , consequences and solutions  लिये   बेरोजगारी  .
Classical  अर्थशास्त्र   ,   नई  classical  अर्थशास्त्र   ,  and the Austrian School of  अर्थशास्त्र   argue  that  मार्केट  mechanisms  हैं  reliable  अर्थात्  of  resolving   बेरोजगारी   .
ये  theories argue against  interventions   imposed   on  the  मजदूर  market from the outside  ,   ऐसे   as  unionization ,  न्यूनतम  wage laws  ,  taxes ,  और   अन्य  regulations that they  अर्जी  discourage  the  hiring of  मजदूर   .
Keynesian  अर्थशास्त्र  emphasizes the cyclical nature of unemployment and recommends  सरकारी  interventions in the economy that  it  claims will  reduce  unemployment during recessions .
This theory  focuses  on recurrent shocks that suddenly reduce  कुल  demand for goods and services  और  thus  reduce   माँग   लिये  workers .
Keynesian models recommend government interventions designed to  बढ़ाएँ   माँग  for workers  ;  these can include financial stimuli  ,   सरेआम   वित्तपोषित  job creation , and expansionist monetary policies .
In  जोड   to  these comprehensive theories of  बेरोजगारी   ,  there  हैं  a  few  categorizations of unemployment that  हैं  used to  अधिक  precisely  मॉडल   the   प्रभाव  of unemployment within the  आर्थिक  system  .
the   प्रमुख   प्रकार   of   बेरोजगारी  include  संरचनात्मक   बेरोजगारी  which focuses  on  structural problems in the  अर्थव्यवस्था   और  inefficiencies  अंतर्निहित   in  labour  बाज़ार  , including a mismatch between the supply  और  demand of laborers with  जरुरी  skill  सेट  .
Structural  वितर्क  emphasize causes  और  solutions  सम्बन्धित  to disruptive technologies and globalization  .
चर्चाएँ   of   frictional  unemployment focus on voluntary decisions to  कार्य   आधारित  on  प्रत्येक  individuals ' valuation of  उनके   अपना  work and how that  compares   to  current  मजदूरी  rates  प्लस  the  समय  and effort  जरूरी   to  find  a  job .
Causes and solutions for frictional unemployment often  पता   जॉब  entry threshold  और  wage rates  .
behavioral   अर्थशास्त्रियों   हाइलाइट   व्यक्तिगत  biases in decision making ,  और  often involve  समस्याएं  and solutions concerning sticky wages  और  efficiency wages .
Collectivism is  कोई  philosophic , political ,  धार्मिक  , economic  ,  or  सोशल  outlook  कि   emphasizes  the interdependence of every  इंसान  being in a society or civilization .
Collectivism is a basic cultural element  कि  exists as  the   रिवर्स   of   व्यक्तिगत   in  human  प्रकृति  (  in  the same way high context culture exists as the  रिवर्स  of  कम  context  संस्कृति   )   .
Collectivist orientations  तनाव  the  महत्व   of  cohesion within  सोशल  groups (  ऐसे  as  an  `` in-group  ''  , in what  विशिष्ट  context it is  पारिभाषित  )  और   in  some cases  ,  the priority of  समूह   लक्ष्य  over individual goals .
collectivists  often  फ़ोकस  on community , society , nation or country .
it   रै   महरूम  used  as   an  element in  अनेक   अलग  and  विविध  types  of  government  और   राजनैतिक   ,   आर्थिक  and educational philosophies throughout history and  सबसे   इंसान   समाजों  in practice contain elements  of  both individualism and collectivism  .
कुछ   उदाहरण   of   collectivist  cultures include India  और  Japan  .
collectivism   can  be divided into horizontal collectivism  और  vertical collectivism .
आड़ा   collectivism   तनावों  collective decision-making among  बराबर   individuals  , and  is  thus  प्रायः  based  on  decentralization and egalitarianism .
Vertical  collectivism  is based  on  hierarchical  structures   of   शक्ति  and on moral and  सांस्कृतिक  conformity , and is therefore  आधारित  on  centralization  and  पदानुक्रम   .
A  सहकारी   एंटरप्राइज़  would  be   an  example of horizontal collectivism  ,  whereas  a   सैन्य  hierarchy would  be   an   उदाहरण  of  लंबवत  collectivism .
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis  (   adem   )   is  an  प्रतिरक्षा   mediated  disease of the brain .
It usually  occurs   following  a  वाइरल   संक्रमण   लकिन   may  appear following  टीकाकरण  , bacterial or  parasitic  infection  ,  or  भी  appear spontaneously .
As it involves autoimmune demyelination , it is  समान  to multiple sclerosis ,  और  is  माना  part of the Multiple sclerosis  borderline  diseases .
the  incidence rate is about 8 per  1,000,000  people  प्रति   साल   .
हालांकि  it occurs  in  all ages  ,  most  reported   मामले  are in children  और   adolescents  ,  साथ  the average age around 5 to  8  years  बूढ़ा  .
the  mortality rate may be as  ऊँची  as  5   %  ,  पूरा   रिकवरी   is   देखी   in  50  to  75 % of  मामले   ,  while up  to   70  to 90 % recover  साथ   कुछ  minor  अवशेष  disability .
The  औसत  time to  रिकवर  is one  to  six months  .
ADEM produces  अनेक  inflammatory  lesions  in  the  brain and  स्पाइनल  cord , particularly  in  the  श्वेत   पदार्थ   .
प्रायः   ये   हैं  found  in  the subcortical  और   सेंट्रल  white matter and  cortical  gray-white junction of both  दिमागी   बांटती   ,  cerebellum  ,  brainstem  ,  and spinal cord  ,  but periventricular white matter and  धूसर   पदार्थ  of  the   cortex  , thalami  और  basal ganglia  may   भी  be  शामिल   .
When the  रोगी  suffers more than  एक  demyelinating episode  ,   it  is called recurrent  disseminated  encephalomyelitis  or   multiphasic   disseminated   encephalomyelitis  (  mdem   )  .
The  पेट  is  a   muscular  , hollow  ,  dilated  भाग   of  the  पाचन   प्रणाली  which  कृत्यों   as  an important  अंग  of  the  digestive tract in some  पशु  , including vertebrates  ,  echinoderms  ,   कीट  ( mid-gut  )  ,  और   molluscs  .
It is involved  in   the   दूसरी   phase  of  पाचन   ,  following mastication (  चबाने   )  .
The  पेट   is  located between the  ग्रासनाल  and the small  आंत   .
it  secretes  protein-digesting   एंजाइमों   पुकारा  protease  और   दमदार   acids   to  aid in  खाना   पाचन  , (  भेजा  to  it   via  esophageal peristalsis  )   through  smooth  muscular  contortions (  पुकारा  segmentation )  पहले   sending   partially   पचता  food  (  chyme ) to the  छोटी  intestines .
the   शब्द   पेट  is  निकला   इससे   the  Latin stomachus which is derived from the Greek  शब्द  stomachos ( στόμαχος ) ,  ultimately  from stoma ( ) ,  ``   मुँह  ''  .
The words gastro- and  gastric  (  अर्थ  related  to   the  stomach )  हैं  both  निकला   इससे   the   यूनानी  word gaster ( ) .
1940   pontiac   खास  Series  25   woodie
A  woodie  is  a   car   देह   स्टाइल  ,  विशेषकर  a  स्टेशन   वैगन  , where the  पश्च  bodywork  is   constructed   of  wood  फ्रेमवर्क  with  infill  panels of  लकडी  or painted  मेटल  .
बाद  the  निधन   of  actual  लकडी  construction , manufacturers  प्रयुक्त  simulated  woodgrain   चादर  vinyl—sometimes  augmented  with three-dimensional ,  अनुकरण   framework—to  recall  लकडी  construction .
in   2008   ,  wood construction  थी  evoked abstractly on  the  Ford Flex with a  श्रेणी   of   पक्ष  and  पश्च   आड़ा  grooves .
a  pearl is a hard  ऑब्जेक्ट  produced within  the  soft  ऊतक  ( specifically the  mantle  ) of  a   जीना  shelled mollusc  .
Just like the  शेल  of  a  clam , a  पर्ल   is   बना  up of  कैल्सियम  carbonate  in  minute crystalline form  ,   जिससे  has  महरूम  deposited in  केंद्रिय  layers  .
The  आदर्श  pearl is perfectly  गोलाकार   और   चिकना  , but many  अन्य   आकार  of pearls (  बरॉक  pearls  )   occur   .
the  finest  विशेषता  natural  मोती   have  been  अत्यधिक  valued as gemstones and objects  of  beauty for many  सदियां   ,  and because of this ,  the  word pearl  रै  become a metaphor  लिये   कुछ  very  विरल   ,   ठीक   ,  admirable ,  और   मूल्यवान   .
the  most  मूल्यवान  pearls occur  अनायास   in  the  जंगली  , but  वे  are  अत्यधिक  rare .
These  जंगली  pearls  हैं  referred to as  प्राकृतिक  pearls .
Cultured  or   farmed   मोती  from pearl oysters and freshwater mussels make up  the   बहुमत  of  those   कि   हैं   फिलहाल  sold  .
Imitation  मोती  are also widely  बेची  in  inexpensive  jewelry  ,  but  the   विशेषता  of their  iridescence  is  प्रायः  very poor  ,  and often  ,  artificial pearls are  easily   विशिष्ट  from genuine pearls  .
Pearls have  महरूम   harvested  and cultivated primarily  लिये   उपयोग  in  आभूषण  ,  लकिन  in the  पास्ट  they were  भी   सिले  onto  lavish  clothing  .
Pearls have also  महरूम   कुचल  and used in cosmetics  ,   दवाइयाँ  , and in paint formulations .
whether   जंगली   or   संस्कारी  ,  gem  quality  मोती  are almost  सदा  nacreous  और  , as is  the  interior of the shell that  produces  them .
however  , almost all species of shelled molluscs are capable  of  producing  मोती  (  formally  referred to  as   ``  calcareous concretions '' by some sources  )   of  lesser shine  or  less spherical shape  .
हालांकि   ये   may   भी   be  legitimately referred to  as  ``  मोती  '' by  gemological  labs and  भी   अंतर्गत   u.S.   संघीय  Trade Commission rules , and  हैं  formed  in   the  same  रास्ता  ,  सबसे   of   उन्हें   have  no value  ,  except as  curiosities  .
Bing  (  known  previously   as  Live  ढूंढें   ,   खिड़कियाँ   सजीव  Search , and MSN Search  )   is  a web search engine ( advertised  as  a ``  निर्णय   इंजन  `` ) from  microsoft  .
bing   थी   अनावरण   by   microsoft  CEO  स्टीव   बाल्मर  on  may   28  , 2009  at  the  सब   बाते  Digital conference in San Diego  लिये  release on June 1  .
Notable  परिवर्तन  include the listing  of   ढूंढें   सुझाव  while  प्रश्नों   हैं  entered and  a  list of  सम्बन्धित  searches ( called  ``  Explore pane  ''   )  based  on  semantic technology from  powerset  which  microsoft  purchased in 2008 .
on   जुलाई  29  ,  2009 , Microsoft and Yahoo  !   घोषित  a deal in  जिससे   bing  would power  याहू  ! Search  .
सब  Yahoo ! Search global customers and  साझेदार  are expected to have  बना  the transition  by  early 2012 .
in  October  2011   ,  Bing announced it  थी   working  on  नई  back-end search infrastructure ,  साथ  the goal  of  delivering  तेज़  and slightly  अधिक   प्रासंगिक  search results  लिये  users .
ज्ञात   as  ``  बाघ   ''   ,   the   नई  index-serving technology has  महरूम  incorporated into Bing globally , since August  2011  .
in  May  2012   ,   bing  announced  another   redesign  of its search  इंजन  that  शामिल   ``  Sidebar  ''   ,  a social  विशेषता  that searches users  '   सोशल  networks for information relevant  to   the  search  क्वैरी   .
A diagram showing  an  I  गठन  on  ठोकर   और  a 4-3 Formation  on  defense
in  American  फ़ुटबॉल  , each team  रै   ग्यारह   खिलाड़ी   on   the   फ़ील्ड  at one time  .
the   विशिष्ट  role that  a   खिलाड़ी   takes   on   the  field is called  उनके  position  .
Under  the  modern  नियम  of  अमरीकी  football  ,   टीमों  are  अनुमत  unlimited  subsititutions   ,  that is teams may  बदलें  any  क्रमांक   of  players after  कोई  play .
This  रै   resulted   in   the  development of three  ``  platoons  ''  of players ,  the  offense (  the  team with the ball , who  is  trying  to   स्कोर  )  ,  the defense  (  the  टोली  trying to prevent the other team  इससे  scoring , and  to  take  the  ball  इससे  them ) ,  और  the special teams  (   जो  play  in  kicking  परिस्थितियों   )  .
Within  those   platoons   ,   विभिन्न  specific  स्थितियाँ  exist  depending   on   कया  the player 's  प्रमुख   जॉब   is  .
The Irish people ( or na  héireannaigh  ; Ulster-Scots  :  Airish  fowk   )   हैं   an  ethnic group  जो   originate  in Ireland  ,   an  island in northwestern Europe .
Ireland  रै   महरूम  populated for  around  9,000 years  (  according to archaeological  अध्ययन  , see Prehistoric Ireland )  .
The Irish  लोगों  's earliest ancestors  हैं  recorded in legends  –  they are claimed  to   be  descended  इससे   समूह  such as the  nemedians  ,  fomorians  , Fir Bolg ,  tuatha  Dé Danann and the Milesians  .
Lebor Gabála  érenn  , a book  of  Irish mythology  tells   कि   milesians  were Scythian descendants .
The main groups that  interacted   साथ  the Irish  in  the Middle Ages  शामिल   the   picts  ,  स्कॉट्स  ,  और   the   वाइकिंग्स  .
due   to   इस  contact  ,  Icelanders are noted  लिये  having some Irish  descent   .
the  Anglo-Norman invasion of the  ऊँची  Middle  आयु   ,  the  अंग्रेज़ी  plantations and  the  subsequent English rule  of  the country introduced  the   normans  and  फ्लेमिश  into  आयरलैंड  .
वेल्श  ,  picts  , Bretons ,  और   छोटी   पार्टियों   of  Gauls and even  anglo-saxons   हैं   ज्ञात  in Ireland from  much   पहले  times .
वहीँ  have  महरूम  many  notable   आयरिश  people  throughout   इतिहास  .
The  6th   सदी   आयरिश   भिक्षु  and  मिशनरी   columbanus  is  regarded  as one of  the  `` fathers of  यूरोपीय   ''  ,  followed  by Kilian of Würzburg and  vergilius   of  Salzburg .
the  scientist  रॉबर्ट   बॉयल  is  माना  the `` father  of   रसायन   ``  .
प्रसिद्ध   आयरिश   explorers  include Brendan  the  Navigator  ,  Robert  mcclure   ,   अर्नेस्ट  Shackleton and  tom   crean   .
by   कुछ  accounts , the  पहला   यूरोपीय   चाइल्ड   born   in   उत्तर  America  था  Irish descent on both sides ; and  an  Irishman was  the   पहला  European  to   नियत   पैर   on   अमरीकी  soil in Columbus ' expedition  of   1492  .
वहीँ  are descendants of Irish  लोगों  living in many western countries  ,   विशेषकर   in  English-speaking  देशों  .
historically  ,  करणों  has been  caused  by politics , famine  और  economic issues .
An estimated  50  to 80 million people  हैं   वंशजों  of  आयरिश   लोगों   ,  primarily  in   the  United Kingdom  ,  the  संयुक्त  States , Australia  ,  Canada and  आइसलैंड   ;  there are also smaller  संख्याएँ  in Argentina , Chile  ,   मैक्सिको  , Jamaica  ,   बारबाडोस   ,   दक्षिण  Africa , New Zealand ,  फ़्रांस  , Germany and Brazil .
The largest  क्रमांक  of  वंशजों  of Irish  लोगों   सजीव  in the United  राज्य  .
the   क्रमांक  of people  जीना  in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  who  हैं  of Irish  descent   is   उच्चतर  ,  as   a  percentage of  कुल  population , than that of  कोई  other country  .
Approximately forty percent of the  उपनिवेश  population of Iceland  आए  from Ireland or  स्कॉटलैंड  .
The  बहुत   पहला  inhabitants  of   आइसलैंड   यहूद   आयरिश  .
The  हबल  Space Telescope ( HST  )  is  a  space  दूरदर्शी  that  थी   carried   into  orbit by a Space  शटल  in  1990  and remains  in   आपरेशन  .
a   एपर्चर   दूरदर्शी  in  कम   धरती  orbit , Hubble 's four main instruments observe  in  the near  पराबैंगनी  , visible , and near infrared  .
The telescope is named  बाद   the  astronomer  एडविन   हबल   .
Hubble  's   कक्षा  outside  the  distortion of Earth  's  atmosphere  allows   it  to take extremely sharp  बिंब  with  लगभग   no   पृष्ठभूमि  light .
Hubble 's  गहन   फ़ील्ड  have been some of  the   सबसे  detailed  visible-light   बिंब  ever  ,  allowing a  गहन   दृश्य  into  स्पेस   और  time  .
Many  हबल   observations  have led to  सफलताएँ   in   astrophysics  , such as  accurately  determining  the   रेट  of expansion  of  the  ब्रह्मांड   .
Although  नहीं  the first  स्पेस  telescope ,  हबल   is  one of the  largest  and most versatile  ,  and  is  well known as both a  vital   शोध  tool and a public  संबंध  boon for astronomy  .
The HST was  निर्मित   by   the  United  राज्य   स्पेस  agency NASA  ,   साथ  contributions  इससे  the  यूरोपीय  Space  एजेंसी   ,   और  is operated by  the   स्पेस  Telescope Science Institute  .
the   hst  is  एक   of   नासा   's   ग्रेट   observatories   ,  along with  the   कॉम्पटन   गामा   रे   वेधशाला   ,   the   चन्द्रा   x-ray   वेधशाला   ,  and the  स्पिट्जर   स्पेस   दूरदर्शी   .
स्पेस   telescopes  were  प्रस्तावित  as early as  1923  .
Hubble was  वित्तपोषित  in the  1970s  , with  a  proposed  लॉन्च   in  1983 , but the  प्रोजेक्ट  was beset by technical delays  ,  budget problems  ,   और   the   चैलेंजर  disaster .
When  आखिरकार  launched in  1990   ,  scientists  मिला  that the main mirror  था  been ground incorrectly ,  compromising   the  telescope 's capabilities .
The  दूरदर्शी  was  लौटी  to its intended quality by a  सर्विसिंग  mission in  1993   .
Hubble is the  तभी  telescope designed to be serviced in  स्पेस   by  astronauts  .
Between 1993 and  2002  , four missions  repaired   ,  upgraded , and  replaced   प्रणालियों  on  the   दूरदर्शी  ;  a   पांचवां  mission was canceled  on  safety  grounds   following  the  कोलंबिया   विपत्ति   .
however  , after  spirited  public  चर्चा   ,  NASA  व्यवस्थापक  Mike Griffin approved one final  सर्विसिंग   मिशन   ,  completed in 2009 by  स्पेस  Shuttle Atlantis .
the  telescope  is   अभी  expected  to   फलन   जबतक  at  तनिक  2013  .
इसके  scientific successor  ,  the  जेम्स  Webb  स्पेस  Telescope (  jwst  )  ,  is  to  be  शुभारम्भ  in 2018 or possibly  बाद   .
Anti-inflammatory refers to the  प्रॉपर्टी  of a  पदार्थ  or treatment that reduces inflammation .
Anti-inflammatory drugs  मेक   up  about  हाफ  of analgesics  ,  remedying pain by  reducing  inflammation as opposed to opioids , which affect  the   सेंट्रल  nervous system  .
the  Tonight  दिखाएँ   is   a  US  late-night   बात   दिखाएँ   कि  has aired  on   एनबीसी   चूंकि   1954  .
it   is  the longest  फिलहाल   कार्यशील   regularly   अनुसूचित   entertainment  program  in  the US and the  तीसरा   longest-running   दिखाएँ  on NBC  बाद  Meet  the   दबायें  and Today .
the   tonight   दिखाएँ   थी  hosted  by  Steve Allen  (   1954–1957  ) ,  जोकर   paar  (  1957–1962  ) ,  जॉनी   कार्सन  (  1962–1992  ) ,  jay   लीनो  ( 1992–2009  ,   2010–present  ) ,  और   कोनन   o'brien  ( 2009–2010  )  .
Several guest hosts also appeared  ,  particularly  दौरान   the  Paar and  कार्सन  eras .
the   longest-serving  host  to   तिथि  was Johnny  कार्सन  , who  hosted   the  Tonight Show  अभिनीत  Johnny Carson for 30 seasons from  the  fall  of  1962 through the spring  of  1992 .
The current  मेजबान  of  the  show  is  Jay  लीनो   ,  who  था  previously hosted the show  इससे  1992  to  2009  और   began  his  दूसरी  tenure on March 1 , 2010  .
On April 3 , 2013 , NBC  घोषित  Jimmy Fallon  होता   become  the  नई   मेजबान  of The Tonight Show  .
The Tonight Show with  jimmy   fallon  will  प्रीमियर   फ़रवरी   24  , 2014 , the day after the  closing  ceremonies of the  2014  Winter Olympics  .
SS Andrea  डोरिया   .
Pronounced was an ocean liner  लिये   the  Italian  लकीर  (  società   di  navigazione  इटालिया  )  घर  ported  in  Genoa  ,  Italy ,  सबसे   प्रसिद्ध  for  इसके   डूब   in   1956   ,  when 52 people died (  51  from immediate impact )  .
नामित  after the 16th-century Genoese admiral Andrea  डोरिया  , the ship  था   a   सकल   पंजीकरण   tonnage  of 29,100 and  a  capacity of  परिचय  1,200 passengers and  500  crew  .
लिये   a  country  attempting  to rebuild  इसके  economy and  प्रतिष्ठा  after  संसार   युद्ध  II , Andrea  डोरिया  was an  प्रतीक   of  Italian national pride .
of  all  इटली  's ships  at  the  समय   ,  Andrea  डोरिया  was the largest , fastest and  माना   safest  .
शुभारम्भ   on   16  June  1951  , the  जलयान  undertook its  maiden  voyage  on  14 January  1953  .
on  25  जुलाई  1956 ,  जबकि  the Andrea  डोरिया  was  approaching  the coast  of  Nantucket , Massachusetts , bound for New York  नगर  , the eastbound of the  स्वीडिश   अमरीकी   लकीर  collided  साथ  it  in   कया  became one of history  's  most infamous  मेरीटाइम  disasters .
Struck in the side  ,  the  top-heavy  Andrea Doria  तत्काल   प्रारंभ  to  सूची   severely  to starboard  ,   जिससे   बाएँ  half  of  its  lifeboats  unusable  .
The  consequent  shortage  of  lifeboats might have resulted in  significant  loss of  जीवन  ,  लकिन   the  efficiency of  the  ship  's  technical design  अनुमत   it   to  stay afloat  लिये  over 11 hours after the ramming .
The good behavior  of  the crew , improvements in  संचार  and the rapid  जवाब  of other  जहाजों  averted a  विपत्ति   समान  in scale  to  that  of  the in  1912  .
1,660  यात्री  and  क्रू  were  बचाया   और  survived  ,  while 46 people died  as   a  consequence  of  the  टक्कर   .
The evacuated  लक्ज़री  liner capsized and sank  the   following  morning .
इस   दुर्घटना   remains  the  worst  maritime disaster  to  occur  in  United  राज्य  waters since  the   डूब  of  the  in  1915  .
the  incident and its  aftermath  were  heavily  covered  by  the news media  .
While  the  rescue efforts were both successful  और   commendable  ,  the  cause of  the  collision with the  स्टॉकहोम   और  the  घाटा  of Andrea Doria  उत्पन्न   much  interest in  the  media  और  many  lawsuits  .
Largely  क्युकी   of  an  out-of-court  settlement agreement between the  दो  shipping  कंपनियाँ   दौरान  hearings  तत्काल  after the disaster  ,  no determination of the  कारण  ( s ) was ever formally published .
Although greater  दोष  appeared initially  to  fall on  the   इतालवी  liner  ,   अधिक  recent discoveries have indicated  कि   a  misreading of radar on the  स्वीडिश   जलयान  may have initiated  the  collision  कोर्स  , leading to  त्रुटियाँ  on  दोनो   जहाजों  .
एंड्रिया   डोरिया   थी  the last  प्रमुख  transatlantic  यात्री  vessel  to  sink  पहले  aircraft  became   the   पसन्दीदा  method of  सफर  .
डायलिसिस   tubing
Dialysis tubing  is  a  प्रकार  of semi-  or  partially permeable membrane  tubing  made  इससे  regenerated cellulose or  सेलोफेन   .
It  can   be  used for diffusion  साथ   solutes   or   परासरण   if   प्रयुक्त  with  जल   तभी   .
Osmosis is when  जल  passes through a semi-permeable layer to  पहुँचें   संतुलन  .
Diffusion  ,   on   the  other  हाथ  , allows the movement  of  molecules from high  विशेषज्ञता   to   कम  concentration .
it   होगा   तभी   allow  molecules to  pass  through a  semi-permeable  membrane  or   परत   if   the  molecule is small  पर्याप्त  to fit  through   the  membrane  or  a membrane  's  pore .
इस  usually results  साथ   the  effects of  diffusion  through  a  membrane  तभी   वाकई   affects  small  अणुओं   ,  and almost never  larger  molecules  .
Dialysis tubing  is   प्रयुक्त  in clinical circumstances to  ensure   a   filtered   प्रवाह  of molecules  ,  preventing the flow of  larger  solute molecules  .
Small  अणुओं  can  be   ``  washed  ''  out  of  a solution  जिससे   is  pumped through  the   tubing  into  a  solvent , usually  जल   ,   जिससे  surrounds it  और  in which they can be flushed away .
in   demonstrations  of semi-permeable membranes  ,   a  solution containing  अनेक  types of  अणुओं   ,  usually  ग्लूकोज  and starch  ,  is placed into a semi-permeable dialysis  थैला   ,  such  as  a cellulose  झिल्ली  with pores , and the  थैला  is  sealed  with a knot or elastic  बैंड  .
The  sealed  dialysis bag  is  placed in  a  container of a  अलग  solution  ,  or water .
अणुओं  small  पर्याप्त   to   pass   through  the tubing ( water  ,  salts ,  monosaccharides  , and other  छोटी   अणुओं  ) tend  to  move into or out  of  the dialysis bag in the  दिशा   of  decreasing concentration , therefore displaying  diffusion  .
larger   अणुओं   (   ऐसे  as proteins , or  polysaccharides  )  कि  have dimensions  significantly  greater  than  the  pore   व्यास  are retained inside  the  dialysis bag .
The water  और   छोटी  solutes  in   a  hypotonic  समाधान   (   a  solution that has a lesser solute concentration than the solution  it  is referenced  to  ) will cross  a  semi-permeable  झिल्ली   ,  like dialysis tubing  ,  into  a   hypertonic  solution ( a  समाधान   कि  has  a  higher solute concentration than  the  solution it is  संदर्भित  to ) in  an   attempt  to reach  संतुलन  , where the solute  विशेषज्ञता   of   प्रत्येक  solution is  in  equilibrium .
पारा   प्रयोगशाला  thermometer
a   थर्मामीटर  ( from the Greek ,  thermos  ,  अर्थ  `` hot ''  और   μἐτρον   ,  metron ,  ``  measure  ''   )  is a  यंत्र   कि  measures temperature or temperature gradient  using   a  variety of different  सिद्धान्त  .
A thermometer has  दो   महत्वपूर्ण  elements  :  the temperature sensor (  e.g  .  the  bulb on  a  mercury-in-glass  थर्मामीटर   )  in which  कुछ   शारीरिक  change  occurs   साथ  temperature  ,  plus  कुछ   अर्थात्  of  converting   इस   शारीरिक   बदलें   into  a numerical value  (   e.g  . the  दृश्य  scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass thermometer  )  .
There are many  प्रकार  and many  उपयोग  for thermometers  ,   as  detailed below in  भाग  of this  आलेख   .
Snow White  और   the  Seven  dwarfs  is  a   1937  American animated musical fantasy  फिल्मी  produced by Walt Disney  और  released by RKO  रेडियो   तस्वीरें   .
Based  on   the  German fairy tale by  the   भाइयो  Grimm  ,   it   is  the first full-length  cel   एनिमेटेड  feature film  और   the  earliest  in   the   वॉल्ट  Disney  एनिमेटेड  Classics  श्रेणी  .
The story  थी   adapted   by   स्टोरीबोर्ड  artists Dorothy Ann  रिक्त   ,  Richard Creedon  ,  Merrill De  मारिस  ,  ओटो   englander  , Earl Hurd ,  लंड  Rickard  ,  Ted  सियर्स   और  Webb Smith .
David Hand was the  supervising  director ,  जबकि   विलियम  Cottrell  ,  Wilfred Jackson , Larry Morey  ,   perce  Pearce  ,   और  Ben Sharpsteen directed the film  's   व्यक्तिगत  sequences  .
Snow White premiered  at   the  Carthay Circle Theatre on December 21 , 1937 , followed by a nationwide release on February  4  , 1938  ,  and  साथ  international earnings of $  8  million during its initial  रिलीज   briefly  assumed  the  record of highest  grossing  sound film at  the  time  .
the   लोकप्रियता   of   the  film has  led   to  it being re-released theatrically  अनेक  times  ,  until  इसके  home video release in  the   1990s   .
Adjusted for inflation  ,  it is one of the  शीर्ष   टेन  performers at the  उत्तर  American box  दफ्तर  .
at   the  11th Academy Awards , Walt Disney was awarded an honorary  ऑस्कर   ,   और  the film was nominated for  बेहतरीन  Musical Score .
It was added  to  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   नेशनल   फिल्मी   रजिस्ट्री  in  1989   और   is   क्रमित  in  the  American  फिल्मी  Institute 's  सूची  of  the   100  greatest  अमरीकी  films  ,  who also named the film as  the   महानतम   अमरीकी   एनिमेटेड   फिल्मी   of   सब  time  in  2008 .
Disney 's  लो   on  the fairy tale  रै   था  a big cultural impact ,  resulting   in  a popular theme  पार्क  attraction , a video game ,  और  a Broadway musical .
Childbirth , labour , delivery ,  जनम  , partus  ,  or parturition is the  culmination   of  a  गर्भावस्था  period  साथ  the  expulsion   of  one or more newborn infants from a  स्त्री   's  uterus .
The  प्रक्रम  of normal childbirth is categorized in three stages of labour : the  shortening  and dilation of the cervix  ,   descent  and birth  of   the   शिशु   ,  and birth  of   the   placenta  .
In many cases and with  increasing   आवृत्ति   ,  childbirth is achieved  through  induction  of  labor or  caesarean  section  ,  which is  the  removal of  the  neonate through  a  surgical incision in the abdomen  ,  rather than  through   vaginal  birth  .
प्रसव  by C-Sections  increased   50  %  in   the  U.S. from  1996  to  2006   ,  and comprise nearly  32  %  of  births in  the  U.S.  और  Canada .
With  आदर  to induced labor , more than 22  %  of  महिलाओं  undergo  प्रेरण  of  श्रमिक   in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
चिकित्सा   पेशेवर   नीति  makers  ढूँढें  that  induced   births   और   elective  cesarean can  be  harmful to  the  fetus  और  neonate as well  as   नुकसानदेह  or  बगैर  benefit to the  माँ   ,  and have  स्थापित  strict  दिशानिर्देश   लिये   non-medically  indicated induced births  और  elective  cesarean   पहले  39 weeks .
चिरायु  La Bam was an MTV  &   चिरायु   दिखाएँ   जिससे   followed   bam   margera   और   उसके  crew as they undertook  चुनौतियां   ,  performed stunts and traveled  the   संसार   .
the  show ran for 5  सीज़न  between  2003  and  2005  .
Flushed  दूर   is  a 2006  british/american   कंप्यूटर   एनिमेटेड  action  /   एडवेंचर  comedy film  निर्देशित  by David Bowers and  sam  Fell  .
It was made in the partnership  between  Aardman  एनिमेशन  and  ड्रीमवर्क्स  Animation  ,   और   is  Aardman  's  first completely computer-animated feature  as  opposed  to   the   usual  stop-motion .
The film stars  the  voice talents of Hugh  जैकमैन  , Kate  विंसलेट   ,  Andy  serkis  , Bill Nighy  ,   इयान  McKellen , Shane Richie and Jean  रेनो  .
The story was  by   sam   गिरी   ,  Peter  रब  ,  लंड   सहनशील   ,   और   इयान  La Frenais  ,  and the screenplay was  लिखा   by  Dick Clement , Ian La  frenais  , Christopher Lloyd , Joe  keenan  , and William Davies .
The film was released  in   us  on  3  November  2006   ,   और  in UK  on   दिसम्बर  1  2006  , and was  वितरित   by  Paramount Pictures  ,   मगर  for  स्विट्ज़रलैंड  ,  स्पेन  ,  और  the Netherlands  ,  which were handled  by  Universal  तस्वीरें   .
the  Atlanta Braves are a professional baseball  टोली  based in Atlanta .
The  braves  are  a   सदस्य   of   the   पूर्वी  Division of  प्रमुख  League Baseball 's National League  .
The  braves  have played  in  Turner  फ़ील्ड   चूंकि  1997  .
The  ``  Braves  ''  name ,  जिससे   थी  first used in  1912   ,  originates from a term for  a  Native  अमरीकी  warrior .
वे   हैं   nicknamed  `` the Bravos '' , and often referred to  as  ``  अमेरिका   's   टोली  `` in  सन्दर्भ  to the  टोली   's   खेल  being  ब्रॉडकास्ट   on  the  nationally  available  tbs   इससे  the  1970s   जबतक  2007 , gaining  a   चौड़ी  fanbase  .
इससे   1991   to   2005   the   braves  were  एक   of   the  most successful  franchises  in baseball , winning division  शीर्षक  an  unprecedented  14 consecutive times in that period ( omitting the  strike-shortened   1994  season in which there  यहूद  no official  प्रभाग  champions )  .
The Braves  जीती   the  NL West 1991–93  और  the NL East 1995–2005 , and  लौटे  to  the   playoffs  as  the   नेशनल   लीग  Wild  कार्ड   in  2010  .
The Braves advanced  to  the  संसार   श्रेणी  five  टाइम्स  in the 1990s ,  जीतना   the   शीर्षक   in  1995 .
Since their debut in the  नेशनल   लीग   in   1876  , the  मताधिकार  has  जीती  16  डिवीजनल   शीर्षक  , 17 National League pennants  ,   as   खूब   as   तीन  World  श्रेणी   championships—in  1914 as the Boston  braves  , in 1957  as  the Milwaukee  braves   ,  and  in  1995 in Atlanta .
The  braves  are the only  एमएलबी   मताधिकार   to  have won the World  श्रेणी   in  three different home  शहरों   .
The  क्लबों  is one of the National League 's  दो  remaining charter franchises ( the  अन्य   होने  the  शिकागो   शावक   )   और  was founded in  बोस्टन  , Massachusetts , in 1871 as the  बोस्टन  Red Stockings (  नहीं  to  be  confused  साथ  the  अमरीकी   लीग  's Boston  रेड  Sox )  .
They are considered  ``  the  oldest  continuously  playing  team in major  उत्तर  American sports  .  ''
There is an argument as to who  is   दरअसल   पुरानी   क्युकी  although the  शावक  are a  पूरा   ऋतु   ``   पुरानी  '' (  formed  as  the   शिकागो  White Stockings  in  1870  )  Chicago  खोया   दो   सीज़न  to the Great Chicago Fire , thus the Braves have played  अधिक  consecutive seasons .
After various name changes ( such  as  the Boston  beaneaters  ) , the  टोली  operated as the Boston Braves for  सबसे  of the  पहला  half  of  the 20th  सदी  .
in  1953 , the team  स्थानांतरित  to  मिल्वौकी  , Wisconsin and  became  the Milwaukee Braves , followed  by   the  move to Atlanta in 1966  .
The team  's  tenure in Atlanta is  प्रसिद्ध  for Hank  आरोन  breaking  बेब  Ruth 's career home  चलाएं  record in 1974  ,   हालांकि  the  बहुमत   of   आरोन  's home runs  यहूद   hit  while the team  थी  in  मिल्वौकी  .
उसके   रिकार्ड  stood  जबतक  2007 , when  सैन  Francisco left fielder Barry  bonds   broke   the  record  .
the   पत्ते   of  a  beech  tree
3d   रेंडरिंग  of  a  μCT  स्कैन  of  a   पत्ता  piece  ,  resolution circa 40 μm/  voxel  .
a  leaf  is  an  अंग   of   a  vascular  संयंत्र  , as defined in  वनस्पति  terms ,  और  in particular  in   संयंत्र   morphology   .
foliage   is   a  mass  संज्ञा  that  refers  to leaves  as  a feature of plants .
typically  a leaf  is  a thin ,  flattened  organ  borne  above ground and specialized  लिये   photosynthesis   ,  but  अनेक  types  of  leaves  हैं   adapted  in ways  लगभग  unrecognisable in those terms : some are not flat (  लिये  example many  रसीले  leaves and  conifers   )  , some are  नहीं  above ground (  ऐसे  as bulb  तराजू  ) , and some are  बगैर  major photosynthetic function (  consider  for example cataphylls , spines ,  और  cotyledons )  .
Conversely ,  अनेक   structures  of non-vascular plants , or even  of   कुछ   lichens  ,  जिससे   हैं  not plants at all (  in  the sense of  होने   सदस्यों  of the  किंगडम  Plantae )  ,  do look and function much  जैसे   पत्ते   .
furthermore   ,   अनेक  structures found  in   vascular  plants  dekh   जैसे  leaves  लकिन   हैं  not actually  पत्ते   ;   वे  differ from leaves  in   उनके   structures  and origins  .
उदाहरण  include  phyllodes   ,   cladodes  ,  और   phylloclades  .
Title  कार्ड  for  the  1937  हमारी   गिरोह  comedy Rushin '  बैले   .
Our Gang  (  also known as The Little Rascals or  एचएएल  Roach  's  Rascals )  हैं  a  श्रेणी   of  American comedy short  films   परिचय  a group  of   ग़रीब  neighborhood  children  and their  adventures  .
निर्मित  by  कॉमेडी  producer  एचएएल  Roach , the series is noted for showing children behaving in a  अपेक्षाकृत  natural way , as  रोच  and original director  रॉबर्ट   F.  McGowan  worked   to   फिल्मी  the unaffected  ,  raw  nuances   apparent  in regular children  बल्कि   than  have  उन्हें  imitate  वयस्क   एक्टिंग  styles .
In addition , Our Gang notably put boys , girls ,  whites   और   अश्वेतों   साथ  in  a  group  as   बराबरी  , something  कि  `` broke new ground  ,  ''  according  to  फिल्मी  historian Leonard  maltin   .
ऐसे   a  thing had never  महरूम   किया  before  in   सिनेमा  but has  चूंकि  been repeated after the success of Our Gang .
the  first production at the  रोच  studio  in  1922 was  a   श्रेणी  of  मूक  short subjects  .
जब  Roach changed distributors  इससे  Pathé  to  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (  mgm   )   in  1927 , and  परिवर्तित  the  श्रेणी  to  ध्वनि  in  1929   ,  the series took off even  further   .
Production  जारी  at the  रोच  studio until 1938  ,  when  the  series was sold to MGM , who then continued producing  the   comedies  until 1944  .
The  हमारी  Gang  श्रेणी  includes  a  total of  220  shorts  और  one  विशेषता  film , General  spanky  ,  featuring   over   forty-one   चाइल्ड  actors .
as  MGM  retained  the  अधिकारों   to  the Our Gang trademark following their purchase  of  the  उत्पादन  rights  ,  the  80  Roach-produced  ``   टॉकीज़  '' were syndicated  लिये  television  अंतर्गत   the  title The Little Rascals beginning in 1955 .
Both Roach 's The  छोटी   दुष्टों   पैकेज  ( now owned by CBS  टेलीविज़न  Distribution ) and MGM  's   हमारी  Gang package ( now owned by Warner Bros. Entertainment ) have  चूंकि   remained   in  syndication ,  साथ  periodic  नई  productions  आधारित  on  the  shorts surfacing over  the  years  ,  including a  1994   छोटी  Rascals  विशेषता  film released by Universal Pictures .
Zacharias Janssen ( also Zacharias  जानसन  or Sacharias  जानसन   )   (  b.1580-88 , d.pre-1632  to   1638  )  थी  a Dutch  spectacle-maker   इससे  Middelburg  संबद्ध  with  the  invention  of  the first optical telescope  .
janssen  is  sometimes   भी   credited  for  inventing   the   पहला  truly  यौगिक  microscope .
However  ,  the  उत्पत्ति  of  the  microscope , just like  the  origin of the  दूरदर्शी   ,  is  a  matter  of  debate  .
Lake  tahoe   (  ; Washo :  dáʔaw   )   is   a   विशाल  freshwater  झील   in  the  सिएरा   नेवाडा  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
At a  सतह  elevation  of  , it is located along  the  border  between   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  and  नेवाडा  , west  of   कार्सन  City .
Lake  tahoe   is  the largest  अल्पाइन  lake  in  North America .
Its depth is ,  बनाना  it  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   's   second-deepest   (  the  deepest   is  Crater  झील   in  Oregon  ,  being  deeper  , at  )  .
Additionally  ,   झील  Tahoe is listed as the  26th   largest  lake by volume in  the  world at .
The  झील   थी  formed  परिचय  2  लाख  years ago  और   is  a  भाग   of   the   झील  Tahoe Basin  साथ   the  modern lake being shaped  दौरान  the  बर्फ   आयु   .
it  is  ज्ञात   लिये   the   स्पष्टता  of its  जल  and the panorama of  surrounding   kyu  on  सब   पहलू   .
the   क्षेत्रफल  surrounding the  झील   is  also referred  to   as   झील  Tahoe , or  बस   tahoe   .
Lake Tahoe  is  a  प्रमुख  tourist  आकर्षण   in  both Nevada and California  .
it   is  home to a number of  स्की   रिसॉर्ट  , summer outdoor recreation , and  पर्यटक   आकर्षण  .
हिम  and  स्कीइंग  are  a   significant   भाग   of  the area 's economy and reputation .
पहाड़  and  झील   नजारा  are  आकर्षण  throughout the year  .
The Nevada side also  शामिल  large  कसीनो  .
Highways  provide  year-round  अभिगम  from Reno , Carson City ,  और  Sacramento .
Page 1 of  the   twenty-seventh   amendment   's   प्रमाणन  in  the  National Archives
Page  2  of the  amendment  's  प्रमाणन
पेज  3 of  the  amendment 's  प्रमाणन
The  twenty-seventh   amendment  (  amendment   xxvii  ) prohibits any  विधि  that  increases   or   decreases  the salary of  सदस्यों  of  the   कॉंग्रेस  from  लेने  effect  जबतक  the  प्रारंभ  of the  अगला  set of terms  of   दफ्तर  for  प्रतिनिधि  .
it  is the most recent  amendment  to the United States Constitution .
It was submitted to the states for  अनुसमर्थन  in 1789  और   थी  adopted  in   1992  .
“first  they came ... ”  is  a  प्रसिद्ध   बयान  and  उत्तेजक   कविता  attributed to pastor Martin  niemöller  ( 1892–1984 ) about  the  sloth  of   जर्मनी  intellectuals following the  nazis  '  वृद्धि  to power and the subsequent  purging  of their  चुनी  targets  ,  group after  समूह  .
There is some disagreement  over   the   सटीक  wording  of   the  quotation  और   जब  it  थी   निर्मित   ;   the  content of the  quotation  may have been presented differently by  niemöller  on different  अवसरों   .
इस  list of  आइलैंड्स   by   क्षेत्रफल  includes  सब  islands in the  संसार   वृहद  than  2,500   km2  ( ) and several other islands over  500   km2   (   )   ,  sorted in  descending  order  by   क्षेत्रफल  .
लिये   तुलना  , continents are  भी   दिखाया  .
चार   तिहाई  logo
The Four Thirds system is  a  standard created  by  Olympus and  कोडक  for digital  single-lens   reflex   कैमरा  ( DSLR )  डिज़ाइन  and  development.  < ref  name='dpreview.com  2001-02-13  '   >
the  system  provides  a  मानक   कि   ,   साथ  digital  कैमरे  and  lenses  available from  अनेक   निर्माताओं  , allows for the  इंटरचेंज  of lenses  और  bodies  इससे   अलग  manufacturers  .
seems  to cover the standard  .
Proponents  describe  it  as  an open  मानक  ,  लकिन   कंपनियाँ   may   तभी  use  it  under a non-disclosure agreement .
नापसंद   पुरानी   slr  systems ,  चार  Thirds has been  designed   इससे  the  मैदान  up  to  be  entirely  digital  .
Many  lenses  are extensively computerized  ,  to the point that  ओलम्पस  offers firmware updates  लिये  many  of  them  .
Lens design has  महरूम   tailored   to   the   आवश्यकताएँ   of   डिजिटल   सेंसर   ,  most notably through  telecentric  designs .
The  आकार  of  the   सेंसर   is   significantly   छोटी  than for most DSLRs and this implies that lenses , especially telephoto lenses  ,  can be smaller .
For example ,  a  Four  तिहाई   लेंस   साथ   a   300  mm focal  लंबाई  would cover about the  वही  angle of view  as   a  600 mm  फोकल   लंबाई  lens  लिये   the  35  mm  film standard ,  और  is correspondingly more  कॉम्पैक्ट  .
Thus ,  the   चार   तिहाई  System has crop  फ़ैक्टर  (  फोकल  length multiplier ) of  परिचय  2 , and while  इस  enables longer  फोकल   लंबाई  for  वृहद  magnification ,  it  does n't  सहायता  the manufacture of wide  कोण   lenses  .
the   चित्र   सेंसर  format ,  generally   इंटरमीडिएट   between  those  of   larger   slrs  and smaller compact cameras ,  generally  gives levels of cost  ,   प्रदर्शन   और  convenience  इंटरमीडिएट  between those two classes  .
HVAC  प्रणालियों  use  वेंटिलेशन  air ducts  संस्थापित   throughout   a  building  to  supply conditioned  एयर   to  a  रूम   through   आउटलेट  vents ,  पुकारा  diffusers ; and  नलिकाएं  to  हटाएँ   एयर   through  return-air grilles .
hvac  ( heating  ,   वेंटिलेशन   ,  and  एयर  conditioning  )  is the technology of  अंदर   और   ऑटोमोटिव  environmental comfort .
HVAC  प्रणाली   डिज़ाइन   is   a  subdiscipline of mechanical  अभियान्त्रिकी  ,  आधारित   on   the  principles  of  thermodynamics , fluid mechanics ,  और  heat  ट्रांसफ़र   .
Refrigeration is sometimes added  to   the   फ़ील्ड   's  abbreviation  as  HVAC & R or  hvacr  ,  or   ventilating   is   dropped  as  in   hacr  ( such  as  the designation of HACR-rated  सर्किट  breakers )  .
hvac  is important in the design  of  medium to large industrial  और  office buildings  ऐसे  as skyscrapers and  in  marine  environments  such as aquariums , where safe and healthy  भवन   शर्तें  are regulated  साथ   आदर  to  तापमान   और  humidity  ,  using fresh air from  बाहरी  .
वेंटिलेशन  on  the   downdraught   प्रणाली  , by impulsion  ,   or  the 'plenum ' principle ,  लागू   to   schoolrooms  ( 1899 )
Heating ,  ventilating   ,  and air  कंडीशनिंग  is based on inventions and  discoveries   बना  by Nikolay  lvov  , Michael Faraday , Willis  वाहक   ,   reuben  Trane , James  जूल   ,  William Rankine ,  sadi  Carnot ,  और   अनेक  others .
the   आविष्कार  of  the  components  of   hvac  systems went  hand-in-hand   साथ  the  औद्योगिक  revolution  ,  and new methods of  modernization  ,  उच्चतर  efficiency , and system control are  constantly  introduced by companies and inventors worldwide .
the   तीन  central functions  of  heating  ,   ventilating  , and  air-conditioning   हैं  interrelated  ,  especially with  the  need to  provide  thermal comfort and  स्वीकार्य  indoor air quality within reasonable  संस्थापना  , operation ,  और   मेंटेनेंस   लागत  .
hvac  systems  can  provide ventilation  ,   reduce   एयर  infiltration , and maintain pressure relationships between  स्पेसेस  .
the   अर्थात्  of air delivery  और  removal from  स्पेसेस   is  known  as   रूम  air distribution  .
The starting point  in  carrying out an estimate  दोनो   लिये   कूलिंग  and  हीटिंग  depends on the  exterior  climate  और   आंतरिक  specified  शर्तें   .
however  before taking up  the   ऊष्मा  load calculation  ,  it is  जरुरी  to find  भैस   एयर  requirements for each area  in  detail , as  pressurization  is  an  important  विचार  .
in   आधुनिक  buildings the  डिज़ाइन  , installation  ,  and  कंट्रोल   प्रणालियों  of  ये  functions are  एकीकृत  into one or more HVAC systems  .
For very small  इमारतें  , contractors normally capacity engineer  और  select  hvac   प्रणालियों  and  उपकरण  .
For larger buildings ,  भवन   सेवाएं   designers   और  engineers  ,  such as mechanical  ,  architectural ,  or   भवन  services  इंजीनियर्स  analyze , design , and specify the HVAC systems ,  और  specialty mechanical contractors fabricate  और  commission them .
Building  permits   और  code-compliance inspections  of  the installations  हैं  normally required for  सब   आकार  of  इमारतें  .
The HVAC industry  is  a worldwide  एंटरप्राइज़   ,   साथ   भूमिकाएँ  including operation  और  maintenance , system design and  निर्माण  ,  उपकरण  manufacturing  और   बिक्री   ,  and  in  education  और   शोध   .
The  hvac  industry  थी  historically regulated by the manufacturers  of   hvac   उपकरण  , but regulating  और  standards organizations such as HARDI ,  ashrae   ,  SMACNA ,  एसीसीए   ,   वर्दी   mechanical  Code , International Mechanical Code ,  और   amca  have  महरूम   स्थापित  to  support   the  industry and encourage  ऊँची   मानकों  and achievement .
royal  Navy Commander James  बंध  ,  cmg  , RNVR ,  is  a  fictional  character created by British journalist  और  novelist Ian Fleming  in  1953 .
He  is   the  protagonist of the James Bond series of novels ,  films   ,  comics  और  video  खेल  .
फ्लेमिंग  wrote twelve  बंध   novels  and two short  स्टोरी  collections  पहले  his  मौत  ,  हालांकि   the  last two books—  the  Man with the Golden Gun and  octopussy  and The Living Daylights —were published  मरणोपरांत  .
The Bond character is  a  Secret Service  एजेंट   ,  code number  007  , residing  in  London but active internationally  .
Bond was a composite character who was based  on  a number of  कमांडो   जिसको   फ्लेमिंग   knew   दौरान  his service in the Naval  प्रज्ञा  Division during World War II  ,  to whom Fleming added  उसके   अपना   स्टाइल   और  a  क्रमांक  of his own  tastes  ; Bond 's  नाम  was appropriated from  अमरीकी   ornithologist   जेम्स  Bond .
Bond has a  क्रमांक   of  character traits  जिससे   चलाएं   throughout  the books  ,  including an enjoyment  of  cars ,  a  love  of   खाना   और   पेय   ,  and an  औसत  intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day .
चूंकि   फ्लेमिंग  's death  in  1964 , there have been other authorised  लेखक  of Bond material  ,  including John Gardner , who wrote fourteen novels and  दो   novelizations  and Raymond Benson , who wrote  छह   novels  ,  तीन   novelizations  and  तीन  short  कहानियां   .
There  have  also been three authors  जो  wrote one  किताब   प्रत्येक  , Kingsley  एमिस   (   लिखने   as   रॉबर्ट  Markham ) ,  सेबेस्टियन  Faulks and Jeffery Deaver  .
Additionally  a  series of novels based  on   बंध  's youth—  यंग   बंध   —was  written by  चार्ली   higson   .
as  spin-offs from  the  literary  works   ,  there was  a  television adaptation  of  the first novel , Casino  royale   ,  in which Bond  थी  played as  an  American agent  .
A comic strip  श्रेणी  also ran in  the   रोज़  Express newspaper .
There have also  महरूम  twenty-five Bond  films  ; seven actors have played  बंध   in   ये  films .
``  Nature  लड़के   ''  is  a   सोंग  by  ईडन  Ahbez  ,  published  in  1947  .
the  song tells a fantasy  of   a  ``  अजीब  enchanted boy  ...   जो   wandered  very  दूर   ''   तभी   to  learn that `` the greatest thing ... was  बस   to  love  और  be loved  in  return '' .
Nat King Cole  's  1948 recording  of  the song was  a  major hit  और  ``  प्रकृति  Boy ''  रै  since  become  a pop  और  jazz standard , with  दर्जनों   of   प्रमुख  artists interpreting  the  song  .
louisiana  ( or ; , ;  louisiana   क्रियोल   :  Léta de la Lwizyàn ) is  a  state located  in  the  दक्षिणी  region of the United  राज्य  of America  .
Louisiana  is  the  31st   सबसे  extensive and  the   25th   सबसे   populous  of  the   50   संयुक्त  States .
Its capital is Baton  रूज   और  largest city  is  New  ऑरलियन्स  .
Louisiana is the  तभी   राज्य  in  the  U.S.  साथ   राजनैतिक   subdivisions   termed   parishes  ,  जिससे   हैं  local  सरकारी  's equivalent to counties  .
The largest  मोहल्ला   by  population is  ईस्ट   baton  Rouge  मोहल्ला   ,  and the largest by  जमीन  area is  cameron   मोहल्ला   .
much  of the state  's  lands  यहूद  formed from sediment  धोया  down  the  Mississippi River , leaving  विशाल  deltas and  विशाल  areas  of  coastal marsh and  मग्न  .
These contain a  समृद्ध  southern biota  ;  typical examples  शामिल  birds such as ibis and  egrets  .
There are also many  प्रजाति   of  tree frogs ,  और   मछली  such as  sturgeon  and paddlefish .
in  more elevated areas ,  आग   is  a natural process  in  the  लैंडस्केप  , and has produced extensive areas of longleaf  पाइन   वन  and wet savannas  .
ये  support an exceptionally large number  of  plant species , including many species of orchids  और  carnivorous  पौधे  .
Some Louisiana urban environments  have  a multicultural , multilingual  विरासत   ,  being  so  strongly influenced by an admixture  of   18th-century   फ्रेंच   ,  Spanish ,  देशी  American  (  Indian )  और  African  संस्कृतियों  that they  हैं  considered to  be   somewhat   असाधारण  in the U.S .
Before the American purchase of  the   territory  , the current  louisiana  State had been both  a   स्पेनी  and French colony .
in   जोड  ,  the   पैटर्न  of development included importing numerous  अफ़्रीकी   स्लेव  in the 18th  सदी  , with many  इससे  the same region  of  West  अफ़्रीकी  , thus  concentrating   उनके  culture .
In the post-Civil  युद्ध  environment  ,   anglo-americans   increased   the  pressure for  anglicization  ,  और  in 1915  ,  English was made the only official language of the state .
Women 's rights are the rights  और   entitlements   claimed  for women and girls of  अनेक  societies worldwide .
in   कुछ  places  ये  rights are  institutionalized   or  supported  by  law  ,   लोकल   कस्टम  ,  और  behaviour  ,  whereas in  अन्य   वे   may   be  ignored or suppressed .
वे   differ   इससे  broader notions  of   इंसान  rights through  दावा  of  an  inherent historical  और  traditional bias against  the  exercise of rights by women and  लड़कियों  in  पक्ष   of  men  और   लड़कों   .
मुद्दे  commonly associated  साथ   धारणाएं   of   महिलाओं  's rights include ,  हालांकि  are  नहीं   सीमित  to  ,   the  right :  to   bodily  integrity  और   स्वायत्तता  ;  to  vote ( suffrage )  ;  to hold  पब्लिक   दफ्तर  ;  to  work  ;   to  fair wages or  बराबर   अदा  ;  to  own  प्रॉपर्टी  ; to  शिक्षा  ;  to   serve  in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into  विधिक   अनुबंध  ;  और  to have marital ,  parental   और  religious rights .
the  laws  of  science or  वैज्ञानिक   कानून  are statements that describe , predict  ,   और   शायद   बताइये  why ,  a  range of phenomena behave as they  appear   to   in  nature  .
the   पद  `` law '' has  विविध   उपयोग  in  अनेक   मामले  : approximate  ,   सटीक  , broad or narrow theories , in all  प्राकृतिक  scientific  disciplines   (  physics ,  रसायन  ,  जीवविज्ञान  ,  भूविज्ञान  , astronomy etc  .  )  .
an  analogous  पद  for a scientific law is a principle  .
वैज्ञानिक  laws:
summarize  a  large collection of facts  संकल्पित   by  experiment into  a  single statement,
can usually be formulated  mathematically  as  एक  or  अनेक  statements or  समीकरण   ,  or at  तनिक   stated  in a single  वाक्य   ,   so  that it can be  प्रयुक्त  to  भविष्यवाणी   the  outcome  of   an  experiment  ,   दिए  the  आरंभिक   ,   boundary   ,  and other physical  शर्तें  of the processes which take place,
हैं  strongly  समर्थित  by empirical evidence - they are  वैज्ञानिक   ज्ञान   कि   प्रयोग   have  repeatedly verified ( and never falsified  )   .
उनके   सटीकता   करता  not change when  नई   theories  are  worked  out , but  बल्कि  the  पैमाना  of application , since the  समीकरण   (   if   कोई  ) representing the law  करता  not change  .
As with  अन्य  scientific  ज्ञान  ,  वे  do  नहीं  have absolute certainty like mathematical theorems or identities ,  और  it is  सदा  possible for a law to be  विकल  by future  observations   .
हैं   प्रायः  quoted as a fundamental  controlling   influence  rather than  a  description of  observed  facts .
i.e   .  ``  the  laws of  गति  require  कि   ''
कानून  differ from  hypotheses  and  postulates  ,  जिससे  are  प्रस्तावित  during the  वैज्ञानिक  process before and  दौरान  validation  by  experiment and  अवलोकन  .
These are  नहीं   कानून   चूंकि   वे  have not  महरूम   सत्यापित  to the same degree  और   may   नहीं   be  sufficiently  सामान्य  , although they may lead to  the  formulation of  कानून   .
A  विधि  is a more solidified  और   औपचारिक   बयान   ,   आसुत  from repeated experiment .
Although the concepts of a law  or  principle in  प्रकृति   is  borderline  to  philosophy ,  और   presents  the  गहराई  to which mathematics can describe nature , scientific laws are considered  इससे   a  scientific perspective and  follow   the   वैज्ञानिक   विधि  ; they ``  serve  their purpose '' rather than  ``   questioning  reality  ''  (  philosophical  )  or  ``  कथन  of logical absolution '' ( mathematical )  .
For example , whether a  विधि   ``  refers  to  reality ''  is   a   philosophical   समस्या   ,  rather  than   वैज्ञानिक  .
fundamentally   ,  all  वैज्ञानिक   कानून  follow from physics , laws  जिससे  occur in other sciences ultimately follow  इससे  physical  कानून  .
प्रायः  , from  mathematically  fundamental  viewpoints  ,  सार्वभौमिक  constants emerge from  वैज्ञानिक   कानून   .
The launch  of  the  प्लेस्टेशन  3  into   the  Japanese  मार्केट   on   10  November 2006  चिह्नित  the  दूसरी  major seventh generation  entertainment  system  to   be  released .
the   प्रणाली  was  released  seven days  बाद   on   17  November in  the   संयुक्त  States .
परिचय  into other world markets was  विलम्बित   by  a  shortage  of diodes for use in  the   blu-ray  disc player ;  the   यंत्र   थी  launched in European and other world markets in the first  हाफ  of 2007 .
Lauren Fenmore Baldwin  (  formerly  विलियम्स   और  Grainger  )  is a fictional character  इससे   the   सीबीएस   साबुन   operas   the   यंग  and  the  Restless and The Bold and  the  Beautiful , portrayed by Tracey  E.   bregman   .
She made her  डेब्यू  during the  एपीसोड   airing  on January  21  ,  1983   .
In 1992  ,  Bregman  began  making  विरल  appearances  on   the   बिंदास  and the Beautiful  ,  later  resulting   in  the  अक्षर   migrating   वहीँ   fully  in  1995   .
Following  a  guest  रूप  in  2000   ,   bregman  returned  to   the   यंग  and  the  Restless on August  24   ,  2001 , remaining  on  recurring  औकात   .
in  2013  ,   it  was announced  कि  Bregman had  महरूम  placed  on  contract .
much  of  लॉरेन  's  इतिहास   रै   revolved  around her romances with  पॉल  Williams , Scott Grainger , Sr. , and Michael  baldwin   among  many  अन्य  causing a fierce  फंसने  with Traci  एबॉट  Connolly .
लॉरेन  is also famous for  उसके  long ,  हिंसक   फंसने  with  शीला  Carter .
the  2010 NBA  फाइनल   थी  the  नेशनल  Basketball Association (  एनबीए  )  चैंपियनशिप  series for  the  2009–10  ऋतु  .
The best-of-seven playoff was contested  between  the Los Angeles Lakers  ,  champions of  the  Western Conference and  defending   एनबीए   champions   ,  and  the   बोस्टन  Celtics  ,  champions  of  the  पूर्वी   सम्मेलन  .
the  Lakers  पराजित   the  Celtics , four  खेल   to   तीन   ,   to  win the franchise  's   16th  NBA championship .
The  64th   संस्करण   of  the championship  श्रेणी   थी  played  between  June 3 and  जून   17  , was  ब्रॉडकास्ट  on ABC  ,  and  थी   देखी  by  an  average of 18.1 million  लोगों   .
the  Celtics earned their  berth  into the playoffs by winning the Atlantic  प्रभाग  .
The  लेकर्स   जीती  the  प्रशांत   प्रभाग  to  earn   उनके  berth .
The Celtics reached the  एनबीए   फाइनल  by defeating  the  Miami  ऊष्मा  in  the  best-of-seven  पूर्वी   सम्मेलन   पहला  Round  ,  the Cleveland Cavaliers in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Semifinals  ,  and  defending   पूर्वी  conference champion Orlando  जादू   in   the  best-of-seven Eastern  सम्मेलन   फाइनल  .
The Lakers reached the  एनबीए  Finals  by   defeating  the Oklahoma City Thunder  in  the best-of-seven Western  सम्मेलन   पहला   गोलाकार  ,  the   यूटा  Jazz  in   the  best-of-seven Western  सम्मेलन  Semifinals  ,  and the Phoenix Suns in the  best-of-seven  Western  सम्मेलन   फाइनल   .
the  NBA  फाइनल   यहूद  scheduled  in  the Major  लीग  Baseball  संसार   श्रेणी  2–3–2 seven  खेल   स्वरूप  , with the Lakers possessing home-court  लाभ  as  a   बदला   लिये  finishing  साथ   बेहतर  regular season record than the  सेल्टिक्स   .
Repeated  baskets  from  स्टार्टर   कोबे  Bryant  ,  Pau Gasol , and Ron  artest   brought   the  Lakers close to victory in Game  1   .
a   रिकार्ड   तोड़कर   प्रदर्शन  from Ray  एलन  's  आठ   three-point  baskets ensured  the  Celtics a Game 2 triumph .
Derek Fisher ’s 11 points in  the   चौथी  quarter helped  the  Lakers win Game  3  .
the  Celtics  जीती  Game 4 ;  it   किया   n't  hurt that they netted  an  excellent  प्रदर्शन  in baskets by  the  team’s reserves , while Paul Pierce  led  the team to a Game  5   जीत   साथ   27  points  on  57 %  शूटिंग   इससे   the  floor  .
The Lakers  avoided   विलोपन  by  जीतना  a decisive  खेल  6 with 24  अंक  contributed by  उनके  bench .
हालांकि  they trailed the Celtics  by   13  points early in  the   तीसरा   क्वार्टर  ,  the  Lakers rallied and won  उनके  second  लगातार  championship  by  taking  over  an  रोमांचक   खेल   7   aided  by  लेट  contributions on  ठोकर   by  Pau Gasol and Artest  और   rebounding   .
ब्रायंट  was named  सबसे  Valuable Player of the Finals  लिये   उसके   दूसरी  consecutive trophy .
इस   थी  the first  एनबीए   फाइनल  to go the full seven games since and  तभी   the  fourth since the  एनबीए  Finals returned  to  a 2–3–2 format  in  .
The Laker franchise  रै  16  एनबीए  Championships  (  Five  in  Minneapolis , 11  in  Los Angeles  )  trailing  the   सेल्टिक्स  ' seventeen championships  .
the  NBA Finals used the  ``  World Series '' Format in 1949 Minneapolis Lakers defeated the Washington  capitols   4   खेल  to  2   ;   in  1953  मिनियापोलिस  defeated  the   नई   यॉर्क   knicks  4 games to 1 ; in  1954  Minneapolis  पराजित   the  Syracuse Nationals 4  खेल   to   3   ;   और  in  1955   syracuse  Nationals defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3 .
The  एनबीए   होता   वापसी   to   the  2–2–1–1–1 National Hockey League seven game  श्रेणी  format  जबतक  1985 .
Black  pepper   (  Piper  nigrum  ) is  a   flowering   बेल   in  the family Piperaceae ,  cultivated  for its  फल   ,  which is  प्रायः   सूखी  and  प्रयुक्त  as a spice  और  seasoning .
The fruit  ,  known  as  a peppercorn when  सूखी   ,   is  approximately  in   व्यास   ,  dark  रेड  when  fully  mature ,  और  , like all  drupes   ,  contains a single  बीज   .
Peppercorns  ,  and  the  ground pepper  निकला   इससे   उन्हें   ,  may  be  described simply as  pepper  ,  or  more  precisely   as  black pepper ( cooked  और   सूखी  unripe fruit ) , green  pepper  ( dried  unripe  fruit )  और  white pepper ( dried  पके   बीज  ) .
Black pepper is  देशी  to  दक्षिण   इण्डिया  ,  और   is   extensively  cultivated there and  elsewhere  in  तीव्र  regions  .
फिलहाल  Vietnam is the  संसार  's largest  निर्माता   और   निर्यातक   of   pepper   ,  producing 34  %  of the world 's  पाइपर   nigrum   क्रॉप  as  of  2008 .
Dried ground  pepper   रै  been used  चूंकि   प्राचीनता  for both its  फ्लेवर   और  as  a   आयुर्विज्ञान  .
Black  pepper   is   the   संसार   's  most traded  मसाला  .
It is one of  the  most  आम   मसाले  added to  यूरोपीय  cuisine and  इसके  descendants  .
The  spiciness   of   ब्लैक  pepper is  due  to the  रासायनिक  piperine , not to  be  confused with  the  capsaicin that  देता  fleshy  मिर्च   theirs   .
It  is  in the modern  संसार  , often paired with  नमक   .
in   cardiovascular   physiology   ,   ejection  fraction  (  EF  )  represents the volumetric fraction  of   रक्त   उत्तेजित  out of  the   ventricle   (  heart )  साथ  each heart beat or cardiac  साईकिल  .
It can be  लागू   to  either the right ventricle which ejects via  the  pulmonary valve  into  the pulmonary  परिसंचरण  or the left  ventricle   जिससे  ejects  via   the  aortic valve into  the  systemic circulation .
इमेजिंग  of the physiology of the  mammalian  heart is the  आर्ट  that allows meaningful mathematical expression defining  ef  .
Noninvasive  हृदय   इमेजिंग  has become a worldwide utility enabling  पढ़ाई   of   हृदय   प्रदर्शन   reproducibly   और   inexpensively  .
Simplified ,  ejection  fraction is a mathematical product allowed by cardiac  इमेजिंग  .
as  a  गणितीय  term  ,  Ejection  भिन्न   is   an  extension of the work of Adolph  फिक  in  हृदय  output .
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography  ,  Computed  टोमोग्राफी   ,  Magnetic Resonance  इमेजिंग  and MUGA  स्कैनिंग  have  definitively  allowed  clinically   प्रासंगिक  mathematics  regarding   ischemia  , Congenital  दिल   बीमारी  and Heart  विफलता  .
The prosecutor is  the  chief legal  प्रतिनिधि  of  the   अभियोजन  in countries with either the  आम  law adversarial system  ,  or the civil  विधि  inquisitorial system  .
the   अभियोजन  is the legal party responsible for presenting  the  case in  a  criminal trial against an  व्यक्तिगत   अभियुक्त  of breaking  the   विधि  .
स्ट्रॉबेरी  shortcake  सबसे  commonly means  a  dessert in the shortcake family of  cakes  .
Strawberry shortcake may  भी  refer  to:
स्ट्रॉबेरी  Shortcake  ,  a  अक्षर   और  franchise  निर्मित  by American Greetings
the  shortened title of Strawberry on  the   shortcake  , a  जापानी   रोमांस  movie .
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn  ʿabd   al-muṭṭalib  ibn  hāshim   (  ) ( circa| 570  –   circa|   8  June  632  ) , also  transliterated  as  मुहम्मद  ( )  ,   थी  a  धार्मिक  ,  राजनैतिक  , and military leader from  मक्का   जो  unified Arabia  into  a single religious  polity   अंतर्गत  Islam .
He  is   believed  by Muslims and  bahá'ís  to be a messenger and  नबी  of God .
Muhammad  is   लगभग  universally  माना  by  मुसलमान   as  the  पिछला   नबी  sent by  परमेश्वर   लिये   mankind   .
non-muslims  regard  मुहम्मद  as  the   संस्थापक  of  islam   .
मुसलमान   consider   उसे  to  be   the   restorer   of  an  अनछुए  original  monotheistic  faith  of  Adam  ,  Noah ,  अब्राहम  ,  मूसा  ,  यीशु  , and other  नबियों  .
born  in  परिचय  570  ce  in the Arabian city of Mecca  ,  he was  अनाथ   at  an early age  और  brought  up   अंतर्गत  the  परवाह  of  उसके  uncle Abu Talib .
he   बाद   worked  mostly as  a   व्यापारी   ,  as  खूब  as a  गड़रिये   ,  and was  पहला  married  by   आयु  25 .
होने   in  the habit of  periodically  retreating  to  a cave in the  surrounding  mountains  लिये  several  नाइट्स  of seclusion and prayer , he  बाद  reported  कि   it  was  वहीँ  , at age 40  ,  that he  प्राप्त  his first revelation from  परमेश्वर   .
Three years  बाद   इस  event Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly , proclaiming that ``  परमेश्वर   is  One `` , that  पूरा   ``   आत्मसमर्पण  ''  to  Him ( lit .
islām  )   is   the   तभी  way  (  dīn )  स्वीकार्य  to  परमेश्वर  , and that  he  himself  थी   a   नबी  and  मेसेंजर   of  God , in  the  same  रग  as other  इस्लामी   नबियों   .
मुहम्मद  gained few  अनुसरणकर्ता   जल्दी   on   ,  and was met with  दुश्मनी  from some Meccan  जनजातियों   ;   he  and his  अनुसरणकर्ता   यहूद  treated harshly .
to  escape  persecution  , Muhammad sent  कुछ   of  his followers  to  Abyssinia before he and  उसके  followers in Mecca  migrated  to  मदीना  ( then known  as  Yathrib )  in  the  साल  622 .
This  इवेंट  ,  the   हिज्र   ,   marks  the beginning of  the   इस्लामी   पंचांग  , which is also known as the Hijri  पंचांग  .
In Medina  ,  Muhammad united  the  tribes  अंतर्गत   the   संविधान  of Medina .
After  आठ   सालो   of  fighting  साथ  the Meccan tribes , his  अनुसरणकर्ता   ,   जो  by then had  grown  to  10,000  ,  took  control of Mecca  in  the largely peaceful  conquest  of  मक्का   .
He destroyed the pagan  मूर्तियों  in the city  और  then sent  उसके  followers out  to   नष्ट   सब  of the remaining pagan  मंदिरों   in   पूर्वी  Arabia  .
in  632  ,  a few  महीने   बाद   returning   to  Medina from  the  Farewell  यात्राएं  ,  मुहम्मद  fell  बीमार   और   died  .
By the time  of  his death  ,  most  of  the Arabian Peninsula had  परिवर्तित   to  Islam  ,  and he had  संयुक्त  Arabia into a  सिंगल   मुस्लिम  religious polity .
the  revelations ( or  ayah   ,  lit  .
``  लक्षण  [  of   परमेश्वर   ]  ''  )   —  which  मुहम्मद  reported  receiving  until his death  –  form the verses of the  कुरान  ,  regarded  by Muslims as the `` Word  of  God ''  और  around which  the   धर्म   is  based .
Besides the Quran , Muhammad  's  life ( sira ) and  परंपराओं   (   सुन्नत   )  are  भी  upheld  by  Muslims as the sources  of  sharia  विधि  .
वे  discuss Muhammad  और  other  नबियों   of  Islam with reverence  ,   adding  the  phrase  peace be  upon   उसे  whenever their names are  उल्लेखित  .
While  conceptions   of  Muhammad  in  medieval  christendom  and premodern  टाइम्स   यहूद   largely  negative , appraisals in modern history have  महरूम  far  कम   so  .
The Great Books (  दूसरी  edition )
Great Books of  the  Western World is a series of books  originally  published  in  the United  राज्य  in  1952  by Encyclopædia  विश्वकोष   inc.   to  present  the   ग्रेट  Books  in  a single package  of  54  आयतन   .
The series is now in its  दूसरी   संस्करण   और  contains  60   आयतन  .
The original  सम्पादक   of  the  श्रेणी  chose  तीन  criteria for inclusion  :  a  किताब  must be relevant  to   समकालीन  issues , and not  तभी  important  in  its historical  कॉन्टेक्स्ट   ;   it   जरूर  reward rereading  ;  and it  जरूर   be  a part of  ``  the great conversation about the  ग्रेट   विचार   ,   ''  relevant  to  at  तनिक   25  of the  102   ग्रेट  ideas  पहचाना   by  the editors .
Books were  नहीं  chosen on  the   आधार  of ethnic  or  cultural  inclusiveness   ,   ऐतिहासिक  influence  ,  or the  सम्पादक  ' agreement  साथ   the   दृश्य   expressed   .
``  Cocaine ''  is  a  सोंग   लिखा  and  अंकित  by  jj  Cale in 1976 , but also known  as  a  कवर  version recorded  by  Eric Clapton .
allmusic   काल्स  the latter `` among [ Clapton 's  ]   सबसे  enduringly popular hits '' and notes  कि   ``  even for  an   कलाकार  like Clapton  साथ   a  huge body  of  high-quality  कार्य   ,   'cocaine  '  बाँधने   among  his best . ''
Glyn  जॉन्स  , who  था   previously   worked  with  the  Who  ,   led   zeppelin   और   the  Rolling  पत्थरों   ,  produced  the   क्लैप्टन  recording , which was  released  on  क्लैप्टन  's 1977 album  slowhand  and as  a  single in 1980  .
The live  संस्करण  of ``  कोका   ''   ,  from  the   बस  One  रात्रि   एल्बम  recorded  in  Tokyo , charted  on  the Billboard  hot   100   as  the B-side of  ``  Tulsa  समय  `` , which  थी  a  no  .  30   hit  in  1980.   ``
Cocaine  ''  was one of  अनेक   of  Cale 's songs  अंकित   by   क्लैप्टन  ,  सहित  ``  बाद  Midnight `` and  ``  Travelin ' Light '' .
the  attack  on   पर्ल  Harbor  (  called Hawaii Operation  or  Operation AI by  the  Japanese  इम्पीरियल  General Headquarters ( Operation  z  in  नियोजन  )  और   the   बैटल   of  Pearl Harbor ) was a  आश्चर्य  military strike conducted by  the  Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl  हार्बर   ,  Hawaii , on  the   morning  of  दिसम्बर  7 , 1941 (  दिसम्बर   8  in  जापानी   )   .
इससे  the standpoint of the defenders ,  the   आक्रमण   commenced  at  7:48   a.m.  Hawaiian  समय   .
The attack was intended as  a  preventive action  in  order  to   रखना   the   u.S.  Pacific Fleet from  दखल   साथ  military actions  the  Empire  of  Japan  थी   नियोजन   in  Southeast  एशिया  against overseas territories of  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom ,  the  Netherlands  ,  and  the   संयुक्त  States  .
The base  थी   attacked  by  353   जापानी  fighters  ,   बमवर्षक  and torpedo  planes  in two waves ,  शुभारम्भ  from  छह   वायुयान  carriers .
सब   आठ  U.S.  नेवी  battleships  यहूद   क्षतिग्रस्त   ,  with four being  sunk   .
Two  of  these  यहूद   बाद  raised ,  और  with the remaining four  repaired  ,  छह   battleships  returned to service later in the war  .
The  जापानी  also sank or  क्षतिग्रस्त  three  cruisers   ,  three destroyers  ,  an anti-aircraft training ship ,  और  one minelayer .
188  u.S.  aircraft were destroyed ;  2,402  Americans were  मारे  and  1,282   wounded  .
Important  आधार   संस्थापना  such  as  the power station ,  डॉकयार्ड  , maintenance , and  ईंधन   और  torpedo storage  सुविधाएं   ,  as  खूब  as the  पनडुब्बी   पियर  and headquarters building  (  also home  of  the intelligence section ) were  नहीं   attacked   .
Japanese  नुकसान  were light : 29  वायुयान  and five midget submarines lost  ,  and 65  servicemen  killed or wounded .
एक  Japanese  नाविक  was captured  .
The  आक्रमण   आए  as a  profound  shock  to  the American  लोगों   और  led directly  to   the   अमरीकी  entry  into  World War  ii  in both the  प्रशांत   और  European  थिएटर  .
The  following   दिन  (  दिसम्बर   8   )   ,  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  declared war on Japan  .
Domestic  support  for non-interventionism ,  जिससे   था   महरूम   दमदार  ,  disappeared   .
clandestine   support  of  ब्रिटेन  (  लिये  example  the  Neutrality Patrol ) was  replaced   by   क्रियाशील   गठबंधन  .
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted Germany and  इटली  to  घोषित  war on the U.S. on December  11  , which was reciprocated  by   the  U.S.  the  same  दिन  .
वहीँ  were numerous historical precedents for unannounced military action  by  Japan .
However  ,  the  कमी  of any  औपचारिक  warning  ,   विशेषकर  while negotiations were still  जाहिर  ongoing  ,  led President  फ्रैंकलिन  D.  रूज़वेल्ट   to  proclaim December 7 , 1941  ,  ``  a   तिथि  which will live  in  infamy  ``  .
प्रोजेक्ट  Runway Season 2 was  the  second season of Bravo 's  कामयाब  Project Runway ,  a   वास्तविकता   प्रतियोगिता  for  फ़ैशन  designers  .
Season 2 began airing on  दिसम्बर   7  , 2005 .
Following a  देशभर  search  पहले  in the  साल   ,  sixteen  designers   यहूद  chosen as  semi-finalists   और  brought  to   नई  York  नगर   in   जून   ,   2005  .
After  the  first challenge  ,  called  ``   सड़क  To The Runway  ''  , fourteen went on to compete  as   finalists   .
The  जीतना   पंक्तियां   ,   क्लो  Dao  ,  received $ 100,000  in   बीज  money  to   सहायता   लॉन्च   उसके   अपना  line , a 2007  शनि   आसमान   roadster   ,  a spread in  elle  magazine , and  a   mentorship   साथ   the   banana  Republic Design Team  .
जीतना  alongside Dao was her model  ,  Grace Kelsey , who received  the  ELLE  पत्रिका  spread  .
माइकल  Kors  और  Nina  गार्सिया   लौटे  as  न्यायाधीशों  for  the   दूसरी  season .
The fourth  judging  seat rotated each  सप्ताह  , based on  the   चुनौती   .
टिम  Gunn , fashion  कुर्सी  at  पार्सन्स   the  New School  लिये  Design , returned  as  a mentor for the designers  .
कारा  Janx later appeared  in   प्रोजेक्ट  Runway  :   सब  Stars in 2012  ,  where  वो  finished 7th out of 13 .
andrae   gonzalo  ,  in  the same year  ,  competed in  the   दूसरी   ऋतु   of   the   सब  Stars edition placing 10th  आउट   of   13  .
an  example of a Heraclius  खच्चर
In numismatics  ,  a  खच्चर   is  a  सिक्का   or  medal minted with obverse  और  reverse designs not normally seen on  the  same piece  .
These can be  जानबूझकर  or  उत्पादित  by  गलती  .
इस   प्रकार  of  गलती   is   अत्यधिक  sought after , and examples can  लाने  steep  कीमतें  from  collectors   .
The earliest mules  हैं   मिला  among ancient Greek and Roman coins  .
Opinion is divided  between   those  who think that  वे   हैं  accidental , the result  of  an incorrect combination of  a   नई   die  with one that had officially  महरूम  withdrawn  इससे  use ,  or  the work  of  coiners  working  with dies  चुराया  from  an   आधिकारिक  mint , perhaps at a  समय   जब   एक  of them  चाहिए   have  been destroyed .
The name derives from the mule  ,   the  hybrid offspring of a horse and a donkey , due to  ऐसे  a coin  having  two sides intended for  अलग   सिक्के   ,   much  as  a  mule  रै  parents of two different species  .
इस  page documents the  tornadoes  and tornado outbreaks  of   2010   .
The majority  of  tornadoes  रूप   in   the  U.S.  ,   लकिन   वे   can  occur almost  anywhere   अंतर्गत   the  right  शर्तें   .
a  lesser number occur outside the U.S.  ,  most notably in  भाग  of neighboring southern Canada during the Northern  गोलार्ध  's summer  ऋतु  ,  लकिन  are also known in  दक्षिण  America , Europe , Asia  ,  and  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported  in  the  संयुक्त  States in 2010  (  of which at  तनिक   1,266   यहूद  confirmed ) ,  साथ   45  confirmed fatalities  .
Elsewhere  in  the world , 11 people were killed in tornadoes ,  छह   in  Argentina  ,   तीन  in  the  Bahamas , one in  बांग्लादेश   ,   और   एक   in   जर्मनी  .
The year was near average for tornadoes despite an  अत्यधिक   शांत  early spring period , however such changed  बाद  a huge  upswing   starting  in late  अप्रैल   और   a  busy  लेट  spring and summer period .
the  autumn months were slightly above  औसत  .
a  lymphocyte is a  प्रकार   of   श्वेत  blood cell in the vertebrate  प्रतिरक्षा  system  .
Under  the   सूक्ष्मदर्शी  , lymphocytes can  be   विभाजित   into   विशाल   lymphocytes  and small  lymphocytes  .
Large  granular   lymphocytes   शामिल   प्राकृतिक  killer cells  (  NK  कोशिकाएं  ) .
छोटी  lymphocytes  consist   of  T  कोशिकाएं   और   b  cells .
खिड़कियाँ  PowerShell  is  Microsoft  's  task automation framework  ,   consisting   of   a  command-line  शेल  and associated scripting language built  on   .neT  Framework .
powershell  provides full access to COM and WMI , enabling administrators to perform administrative  कार्य   on   दोनो  local and remote  खिड़कियाँ  systems  .
In PowerShell ,  प्रशासनिक   कार्य   हैं  generally performed by  cmdlets  ( pronounced  command-lets   )  , which  हैं  specialized .NET  वर्ग  implementing  a  particular  आपरेशन  .
Sets of cmdlets  may   be  combined together  in  scripts  ,  executables  (  which  हैं  standalone applications ) , or by instantiating regular .NET  वर्ग   (  or WMI/COM  वस्तुएँ  ) .
These  कार्य  by accessing data in different data  स्टोर्स   ,  like  the  filesystem or registry  ,   जिससे  are made  उपलब्धियाँ   to   the   powershell  runtime  via   खिड़कियाँ   powershell   प्रदाताओं  .
खिड़कियाँ  PowerShell also provides  a  hosting API with  जिससे   the  Windows  powershell   runtime   can  be embedded inside  अन्य   अनुप्रयोग   .
These applications  can   तब  use Windows PowerShell functionality to implement certain  परिचालन  ,  सहित  those exposed  via  the  आलेखीय  interface .
इस  capability has been  प्रयुक्त  by Microsoft  एक्सचेंज   सर्वर  2007 to expose its  प्रबन्धन  functionality  as  PowerShell cmdlets and providers and  implement   the   आलेखीय  management tools as  powershell   होस्ट   जिससे  invoke  the   जरुरी   cmdlets  .
Other Microsoft applications including  microsoft   एसक्यूएल  Server 2008 also  expose   उनके   प्रबन्धन  interface via  powershell   cmdlets  .
With  powershell   ,  graphical interface-based management applications  on  Windows are  परतदार  on  शीर्ष  of Windows  powershell  .
A PowerShell  एनक्रिप्शन  interface  लिये  Windows  उत्पाद  is mandated by  the  Common Engineering  मापदण्ड   .
खिड़कियाँ  PowerShell  शामिल  its own extensive , console-based help , similar to man pages  in   यूनिक्स   शेल   ,  via  the  Get-Help cmdlet .
Mary  poppins  is  a  1964 musical  फिल्मी  starring  जूली  Andrews , Dick  वैन  Dyke ,  दाउद  Tomlinson , and  glynis   जॉन्स   ,  produced by Walt Disney  ,  and based  on   the  Mary Poppins books series by  P.   L.   ट्रेवर्स   .
The  फिल्मी  was directed  by   रॉबर्ट  Stevenson  और   लिखा  by  विधेयक  Walsh and Don  dagradi   ,  with  गीतों   by  the Sherman Brothers  .
It was  शॉट  at  वॉल्ट   डिज़्नी   studios  in Burbank ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   .
जूली   एंड्रयूज  won  the   अकादमी   पुरस्कार  for Best Actress for her performance as Mary Poppins  और  the film also  जीती   ऑस्कर  for Best  फिल्मी  Editing  ,  Original  म्यूज़िक  Score ,  बेहतरीन   सोंग   लिये  `` Chim Chim  cher-ee   ''   और   बेहतरीन  Visual  प्रभाव  ,  और  received a  कुल  of  13   nominations   .
A story  चाप   is  an extended or continuing storyline  in   episodic  storytelling  मीडिया  such as television , comic books ,  कॉमिक  strips ,  boardgames   ,   वीडियो  games  ,   और  in  कुछ  cases ,  films   .
on  a  टेलीविज़न   कार्यक्रम  , for example , the  स्टोरी   होता  unfold over many episodes  .
in  television , the use  of  the story arc  is  much  अधिक  common in dramas  than  in  comedies   ,   विशेषकर   in  soap operas  .
Webcomics are  अधिक  likely to use story arcs than newspaper  कॉमिक्स   ,  as  सबसे  web comics  have   पठनीय  archives online  कि  a newcomer  to   the  strip  can   पढ़ा  in order to  समझे  what is going on  .
हालांकि   स्टोरी   arcs  have  existed   लिये  decades , the  पद   ``   स्टोरी  arc  ''  was  coined  in 1988 in relation to the television series Wiseguy  ,  and was quickly adapted  लिये  other  उपयोग   .
अनेक  American comic book  श्रेणी  are  अभी   लिखा  in four  or   six-issue   arcs   ,   भीतर   a   continuing   श्रेणी   .
Short  स्टोरी  arcs are  easier  to package  as   व्यापार   paperbacks   लिये  resale  ,   और  more accessible to  the  casual  रीडर  than the never-ending  निरंतरता   कि  once  characterised  comics .
ब्लैक  Friday is the  दिन  following  थैंक्सगिविंग  Day  in   the  United States ,  प्रायः  regarded  as   the  beginning of  the  Christmas shopping  ऋतु   .
in   हाल   सालो  , most major retailers  have  opened extremely early and offered  promotional  sales  to  kick off  the  holiday shopping  ऋतु  ,  समान  to  मुक्केबाज़ी  Day sales  in  many Commonwealth Nations .
Black  शुक्रवार  is  नहीं  an official public  अवकाश  as  ऐसे  , but  अनेक  non-retail employees and  स्कूलों  have  दोनो  Thanksgiving and the day  बाद  off  ,  followed by a weekend  ,   thereby  increasing  the   क्रमांक   of   संभावित  shoppers  .
it   रै  routinely  महरूम  the busiest  खरीदारी   दिन   of  the  साल   चूंकि  2005 , although news reports , which at that  समय  were inaccurate ,  have   वर्णित   it  as  the   व्यस्ततम   खरीदारी  day of  the  year  लिये   a   much  longer  काल  of time  .
The  दिन  's name originated in  फिलाडेल्फिया   ,   जहाँ  it  originally  was  प्रयुक्त  to describe the heavy and disruptive pedestrian and vehicle traffic  जिससे   होता  occur  on   the   दिन  after  थैंक्सगिविंग  .
उपयोग   of   the  term started  पहले   1961   और   began   to   देखिए  broader  उपयोग  outside Philadelphia around 1975 .
Later an alternative explanation  began  to  be   offered  : that `` Black Friday '' indicates  the  point at  जिससे   रिटेलर   शुरू  to turn  a  profit  ,  or are `` '' .
लिये   अनेक  years , it  थी   आम   लिये  retailers  to  open at  6:00  a.m.  ,  but  in  the late 2000s many  था  crept  to  5:00 or even  4:00   .
This was  लिया  to a  नई   चरम  in  2011  ,  जब   अनेक   रिटेलर   (  including Target , Kohl 's , Macy 's , Best  ख़रीदे   ,   और  Bealls ) opened  at  midnight for the  पहला  time .
in  2012 ,  walmart   और   अनेक   अन्य   रिटेलर   घोषित   कि  they would  खोलें   सबसे  of their  स्टोर्स  at  8:00   p.m.  on Thanksgiving Day  (   मगर  in  राज्य   जहाँ  opening on  थैंक्सगिविंग   is   निषिद्ध   due  to blue  कानून  , such  as   मैसाचुसेट्स  where they still opened around midnight ) ,  prompting  calls for  a  walkout among some  मजदूर  .
ब्लैक   शुक्रवार   खरीदारी  is  ज्ञात  for attracting aggressive crowds , with  सालाना  reports of assaults  ,  shootings , and throngs  of   लोगों   trampling  on other  shoppers  in  an  attempt to get the best deal on a product  पहले   आपूर्तियाँ  run  आउट  .
The Family That  preys   is   a   2008  American movie drama  लिखा   ,   उत्पादित   ,   और   निर्देशित   by   टायलर  Perry  .
the  screenplay focuses on  दो   परिवारों   ,   एक  wealthy and the other  working   क्लास   ,   जिनकी   जीवनदान   हैं  intertwined in both  प्रेम   और   कारोबार   .
The movie is  the   दूसरी  of four in  जिससे  Perry 's signature character  ,   madea   ,   करता  not  मेक   an   रूप  .
It  is  also  the   दूसरी  Perry-directed  फिल्मी   (  alongside  पापा  's  छोटी  Girls  )  that  is   नहीं   आधारित  on  कोई  of the filmmaker 's  स्टेज  plays  .
Net 10 , Net  15   ,  Net 30 and  जाल  60  (  also Net 10  दिनों   ,   et  al )  हैं  forms  of   व्यापार   क्रेडिट   जिससे  specify  कि  the  जाल   राशि  ( the total outstanding  on   the  invoice ) is expected to be paid  in  full  और   प्राप्त   by  the  विक्रेता  within  10  ,  15   ,  30  or   60  days  बाद   the  goods are  dispatched  or service  is   समाप्त  .
Net 30 or Net 60 terms are often  coupled   साथ  a credit for  जल्दी  payment .
The word  जाल   in  this sense means  ``  total  बाद  all  छूट  .  ''
It originally  गर्भाशयी  from the Latin  nitere   (   to   चमक  ) and  nitidus   (  elegant ,  trim   )   ,   और  more recently from the French net ( sharp ,  neat   ,  clean ) .
roadtown  , Tortola
The  अंग्रेजों  West Indies were the islands  in  and  around   the   caribbean  that  यहूद  part  of  the British Empire .
in  1912 , the  अंग्रेजों   वेस्ट   इंडीज   यहूद   विभाजित   into   आठ   colonies  : The  बहामा  ,  बारबाडोस  , British  guiana   ,   अंग्रेजों  Honduras  ,   जमैका  ( with  इसके   dependencies  the  turks  and Caicos Islands  और   the  Cayman  आइलैंड्स  )  ,   त्रिनिदाद   और  Tobago ,  the  Windward Islands and the  leeward   आइलैंड्स   .
between  1958  और  1962 , all of  the  island  territories  except  the   अंग्रेजों   वर्जिन  Islands , the Bahamas  ,  British  होंडुरास  and British  guiana  were organised into  the   वेस्ट  Indies Federation .
it  was hoped  कि   the   संघ  would  become  independent  as  a  सिंगल   स्वदेश   ,   लकिन   it   था  limited  शक्तियां  , many  व्यावहारिक  problems , and a lack of popular  support  .
नतीजतन  , the  वेस्ट   इंडीज   संघ   थी  dissolved  .
सबसे  of the  territories   ,  including  सब   the   larger  ones , are now  स्वतंत्र   as  separate countries , with  सदस्यता   to   अनेक  international  forums  such  as  the Organization  of  American  राज्य   ,   the   संघ  of  caribbean  States , the World Trade Organization ,  the   संयुक्त   राष्ट्र  ,  the   caribbean   जातियाँ  , the Commonwealth  of  Nations  और  the  caribbean   विकास  Bank  among   अन्य   .
The remainder  हैं   अंग्रेजों  overseas territories .
सब  the  पूर्व  nations  of  the  अंग्रेजों  West Indies  ,  except  the  Commonwealth of  डोमिनिकन  , Guyana and  त्रिनिदाद  and Tobago  ,   हैं  Commonwealth  realms  .
The term  is   स्टिल  used  लिये  British  विदेशी  Territories in the Caribbean  ,  such as the Cayman Islands .
the  remaining British West Indies
``   कया  a Wonderful World ''  is   a  song written by Bob Thiele ( as `` George Douglas  ''  )  और   जार्ज   दाउद  Weiss  .
It was  पहला  recorded by Louis  आर्मस्ट्रांग  and released as  a   सिंगल   in  1967 .
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the music  संसार   (  Thiele as a producer and  वेइस   as   a  composer/performer  )   .
आर्मस्ट्रांग  's  रिकॉर्डिंग   थी  inducted  in  the Grammy  हॉल  of Fame in  1999   .
the   प्रकाशन  for this song is controlled by Memory Lane  म्यूज़िक  Group , Carlin Music  corp.  ,  और  Bug  म्यूज़िक   ,  Inc .
Inauguration  दिन  2009 on the west steps of the U.S.  कैपिटल   .
President  जार्ज  W.  बुश   और  First Lady Laura  बुश  lead the inaugural  परेड  down  पेन्सिलवेनिया  Avenue to the  श्वेत   हाउस  , 2005
The inauguration  of   the  president  of  the United States is a ceremonial event marking  the   शुरुआत  of a  नई   four-year  term  of  a president of  the   संयुक्त  States  .
The day  a   अध्यक्षीय  inauguration occurs  is  known  as  `` Inauguration  दिन  ''  और  occurs on  जनवरी  20 ( or 21st if  the  20th  is  a Sunday  )  .
( Prior to the Twentieth Amendment ,  the   तिथि  was March 4  ,  the day  of  the  साल   on  which the Constitution of  the   संयुक्त  States first took  प्रभाव   in   1789  ; the  पिछला  inauguration  to   लो  place  on  the older date  थी  Franklin D.  रूज़वेल्ट  's first one  on   कूच  4  ,  1933 . )
the   सबसे  recent public presidential inauguration  रस्म   ,  the swearing  in   of   अध्यक्ष  Barack Obama to begin  उसके  second  four-year  term in  दफ्तर  ,  took  place  on  Monday  ,  January 21  ,  2013 .
The only inauguration element mandated  by  the United  राज्य  Constitution is that  the   अध्यक्ष   मेक  an oath  or   प्रतिज्ञान  before that person can ``  डालें   on  the  निष्पादन  ''  of   the  office of the presidency .
however  , over the  सालो  , various traditions have arisen that have expanded the  उद्घाटन  from a simple oath-taking ceremony  to   a  day-long event , including  parades  ,  भाषणों   ,  and  गेंदें   .
इससे   the  presidency  of  Andrew  जैक्सन  through that  of   jimmy   कार्टर   ,   the   प्राथमिक  Inauguration  दिन  ceremony took place on the  कैपिटल  's East  portico  .
चूंकि   the  1981 inauguration  of  Ronald Reagan ,  the  ceremony  रै  been  आयोजित  at  the  Capitol 's West Front .
The  inaugurations  of  विलियम  Howard Taft in  1909  and Reagan in 1985 were moved indoors at the Capitol due to cold weather .
The  युद्ध   of   1812  and World War  ii   caused  two  inaugurations  to be held  at   अन्य   स्थितियाँ  in Washington ,  d.c   .
When  जार्ज  Washington  थी  inaugurated ,  the  oath was  administered   by   रॉबर्ट  Livingston , Chancellor of New York State ,  in   1789   ,  and  by  William  cushing  , Associate Justice of  the  Supreme Court ,  in  1793 .
Since Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth swore in President John Adams ,  no   मुख्य   इंसाफ   रै  missed  an  Inauguration Day  .
When  उद्घाटन   दिन  has  गिरे  on  a  Sunday , the  मुख्य  justice has administered  the  oath  to  the president on the Sunday privately and then again the  अगला   दिन   सरेआम   .
जब  a new president takes  over   mid-term  due to the death or resignation of  a  president  ,   the   शपथ   of   दफ्तर  is administered  लकिन   औपचारिक   ,  public inauguration events  have  not been held .
stefani   जोआन   एंजेलीना   germanotta  (  ;  born March  28   ,  1986 ) , known by her stage name Lady Gaga  ,  is an  अमरीकी  singer  ,  songwriter  ,   रिकार्ड  producer , dancer , activist , businesswoman , fashion  पंक्तियां   ,  actress and philanthropist .
born   और  raised in  नई   यॉर्क   नगर  ,  वो   primarily  studied at the  कान्वेंट   of   the   पवित्र  Heart and  briefly   attended   नई   यॉर्क   विश्वविद्यालयों  's Tisch School of the Arts before  withdrawing   to  focus  on  her  musical  career .
वो   जल्द   began  performing  in   the  rock  म्यूज़िक   झाँकी  of  मैनहटन  's Lower East Side  .
By  the   समाप्त  of  2007   ,  record  कार्यपालिका   और   निर्माता   विंसेंट   हर्बर्ट   हस्ताक्षरित  her to  उसके  label  streamline   रिकॉर्ड  , an imprint  of   interscope  Records .
Initially  working  as  a   songwriter   at   interscope  Records ,  उसके  vocal abilities captured the attention of recording artist Akon  ,   जो  also  हस्ताक्षरित  her  to  Kon Live Distribution ,  उसके   अपना  label under Interscope .
Lady Gaga came to prominence  as   a  recording artist  following   the  release of her  डेब्यू   एल्बम   ,  The  कीर्ति   (  2008  )  ,  जिससे   थी   a   नाजुक   और  commercial success that topped charts around  the  world and included the international number-one  singles  `` Just  नृत्य   ``  and `` Poker Face ``  .
After  embarking  on the  the  Fame  बॉल  Tour , she  followed  the album  साथ  The Fame Monster ( 2009 )  ,  which  शाखित  the worldwide hit singles  ``  Bad  रोमांस  `` , ``  टेलीफोन  ``  ,  and `` Alejandro ``  .
The Fame  राक्षस  success allowed her to embark on  the   eighteen-month  long  दानव   बॉल   दौरे  ,  जिससे  later became one  of  the highest-grossing  कॉन्सर्ट   टुर   of  all time  .
Her most recent  एल्बम   ,   born   इस   रास्ता  ( 2011 ) , topped  the  charts of most major markets and generated  अधिक   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   chart-topping  singles , including `` Born This  रास्ता   ``   ,  `` Judas  ``  , and  ``  The Edge  of  Glory  ``  .
Influenced  by   britney  Spears  ,   दाउद  Bowie , Michael Jackson ,  मैडोना  , and  महारानी   ,   महिला  Gaga  is  recognized for her  flamboyant   ,  diverse and outré contributions  to   the  music  उद्योग   through   उसके  fashion , performances and music videos .
As of October  2011   ,   वो  has sold an estimated  23  million  एल्बम  and 64 million  singles  worldwide and her  singles   हैं  some of  the  best-selling worldwide .
उसके  achievements include  पाँच  Grammy  पुरस्कार   और   13   एमटीवी   वीडियो  Music Awards .
महिला  Gaga has  consecutively  appeared on  बिलबोर्ड  magazine 's  कलाकारों  of  the  Year  (  scoring the definitive title in  2010   )  ,  क्रमित   चौथी  in  vh1   's  list of  100  Greatest  महिलाओं  in  म्यूज़िक  , is the sixth best selling  डिजिटल  singles artist in US according to RIAA , is regularly placed on  सूचियाँ  composed  by  Forbes magazine  और  was  नामित  one of the  सबसे  influential people  in  the  संसार   by   समय  magazine .
besides   उसके   musical  career  ,  she  involves  herself with  humanitarian  causes and  lgbt   सक्रियता  .
mckethan   स्टेडियम  home  of   घड़ियाल  baseball
A  चित्र  of the 1924 Baseball team
the  Florida Gators  बेसबॉल  team represents the University of Florida in the sport of  बेसबॉल  .
the   फ्लोरिडा  Gators  compete  in Division I of  the  National Collegiate  एथलेटिक्स   संघ  (  ncaa   )  , and the  पूर्वी  Division of the  southeastern  Conference ( SEC ) .
They play  उनके  home  खेल  in Alfred A. McKethan Stadium on the university  's  Gainesville , Florida  कैम्पस   ,  and are currently led  by  head coach Kevin  o'sullivan   .
In the  ninety-eight   ऋतु  history  of  the Gators  बेसबॉल  program , the team has  जीती   बारह  SEC  championships  and  रै  appeared  in  eight  कॉलेज  World Series tournaments  .
``  electioneering  '' redirects here  .
For  the  Radiohead song , see OK  कंप्यूटर  .
अध्यक्षीय   अभियान  button for  अब्राहम  Lincoln  ,  1860 .
the   रिवर्स  side  of   the   बटन   shows  a portrait  of  his running  mate  Hannibal Hamlin  .
A  राजनैतिक   अभियान  is an  व्यवस्थित   प्रयत्न  which seeks to  influence  the decision  बनाना  process  भीतर   a  specific  समूह  .
In  democracies   ,  political  अभियान  often  refer   to   चुनावी  campaigns ,  wherein   प्रतिनिधि   हैं  chosen  or   referendums  are decided .
In modern politics , the  सबसे  high  प्रोफ़ाइल  political  अभियान  are  केन्द्रित   on  candidates  लिये  head  of  state or  सिर  of  सरकारी   ,  often a President  or  Prime  मंत्री   .
Elizabeth  cady   stanton  and  उसके   बेटी   ,  Harriot
एलिज़ाबेथ  Cady  stanton   (  November  12   ,  1815  –  October  26  , 1902  )   थी  an  अमरीकी  social activist  ,   abolitionist  ,  और  leading figure  of   the   जल्दी   महिलाओं   's   अधिकारों  movement .
उसके   घोषणा  of Sentiments  ,  presented  at   the   पहला  women 's  अधिकारों   सम्मेलन  held  in   1848   in  Seneca Falls , New York  ,  is often  credited  with  initiating   the   पहला   व्यवस्थित  women 's  अधिकारों   और   महिलाओं   's  suffrage  आंदोलनों  in  the  United States  .
पहले  Stanton narrowed her  राजनैतिक  focus almost exclusively to women 's  अधिकारों   ,   वो  was an active abolitionist together  साथ   उसके  husband  ,   हेनरी   brewster  Stanton and  cousin   ,   gerrit  Smith  .
नापसंद  many  of   those  involved in  the   महिलाओं  's  अधिकारों   गति   ,   stanton   addressed   विभिन्न  issues pertaining to women beyond  मतदान  rights  .
उसके   चिंताएं   शामिल  women  's  parental  और  custody rights  ,  property rights ,  नियुक्ति  and income  अधिकारों  , divorce , the  आर्थिक  health  of   the  family  ,  and  जनम  control  .
वो  was  भी   an  outspoken supporter of the 19th-century temperance movement .
After  the   अमरीकी   सिविल   युद्ध   ,  Stanton  's  commitment to female  suffrage   caused  a schism in the women 's  अधिकारों   गति   जब  she , together  साथ  Susan B. Anthony ,  अस्वीकृत   to  support passage of  the  Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to  the  United States Constitution .
वो  opposed giving  added  legal protection and  मतदान   अधिकारों   to  African American men while  महिलाओं   ,  black and white  ,   यहूद   अस्वीकृत  those  वही  rights  .
उसके  position on  इस   समस्या   ,  together  साथ   उसके  thoughts  on  organized  christianity  and  महिलाओं  's issues beyond voting rights , led to the  गठन   of  two separate  महिलाओं  's  अधिकारों   संगठन   कि  were finally rejoined , with  stanton   as  president of  the  joint organization  ,  approximately twenty years  बाद   उसके  break  इससे  the original women 's suffrage  गति  .
Stanton  died  in  1902   having   authored   दोनो  The Woman 's  बाइबल  and  उसके  autobiography , along  साथ   अनेक  articles and pamphlets  concerning  female  suffrage  and  महिलाओं  's rights  .
My  मेला   महिला  is  a  musical  आधारित  upon  जार्ज   बर्नार्ड  Shaw  's  Pygmalion and  साथ   किताब  and lyrics by  एलन  Jay Lerner and  म्यूज़िक  by Frederick  loewe   .
The story concerns Eliza Doolittle ,  a   काकनी  flower  लड़की  who  takes  speech lessons from professor  हेनरी  Higgins  ,   a   phoneticist   ,  so  कि  she may pass as a well-born lady  .
The  musical  's  1956   ब्रॉडवे  production was a hit , setting what was then  the   रिकार्ड  for the longest run of  कोई  major musical  थिएटर  production in history .
it   थी  followed by  a  hit London  उत्पादन   ,  a  लोकप्रिय  film version ,  और  numerous revivals  .
it  has been called  ``  the perfect  musical   ''   .
Deregulation  is   the  act  or  process of  निकालना  or reducing state regulations .
It  is  therefore  विपरीत   of   विनियमन  , which refers to  the   प्रक्रम  of  the   सरकारी   regulating   निश्चित  activities .
The  बोस्टन  Bruins  रेडियो   संजाल  is  a  25-station  (   17  A.M.  ,   8  F.M  .  plus 2 F.M . translators  )  CBS  रेडियो   संजाल  which carries live  खेल  broadcasts of the Boston Bruins  .
The  संजाल  's flagship  स्टेशन   is   wbz-fm  /98.5- Boston  ,  Massachusetts  .
Dave Goucher announces  play-by-play  .
bob  Beers provides  रंग  commentary  .
इस   आलेख   is  about the short story .
लिये  the poem by Sara Teasdale  ,   देखिए   वहीँ   होगा  Come Soft  rains  .
``   वहीँ  Will Come  नरम  Rains  ''   is   a  short  स्टोरी   by   विज्ञान   fiction  author Ray Bradbury  जिससे  was first  प्रकाशित   in  the May 6 , 1950  समस्या  of  collier  's .
बाद  that  वही   साल   the  story  थी  included in  bradbury  's  the   martian   क्रॉनिकल्स  (  1950  ) .
With over 1.2 billion  लोगों   ,   हान  Chinese is  the  largest ethnic group  in  the world  .
Pashtun people of  the  Pashtunistan region ,  जिससे  sits in  an  area  between  south of the Hindu  कुश   in  Afghanistan and the  सिंधु  River in Pakistan .
वे  number  around   50  million  .
The Korowai  लोगों  of  पापुआ  numbered just  around  3,000 people  ,   और  were uncontacted until  the  1970s .
नस्ल   or  ethnic group is a socially  पारिभाषित   श्रेणी  based on common culture or  राष्ट्रीयता   .
नस्ल  can ,  लकिन   करता   नहीं   have   to  , include common ancestry , appearance , cuisine  ,  dressing style  ,  heritage  ,  history , language or  dialect  , religion , symbols  ,  traditions ,  or  other cultural  फ़ैक्टर  .
Ethnic identity  is   constantly   reinforced   through   आम  characteristics which  नियत  the group apart from  अन्य  groups .
The 19.9 MW  gemasolar   सौर  plant in Spain features  15  hours  of  storage and  can  supply  शक्ति   24   घंटों   a  day  .
Solar  उर्जा  , radiant light and heat from the sun  ,  has been  harnessed  by humans  चूंकि   प्राचीन  times using  a  range of ever-evolving technologies .
सौर   उर्जा  technologies include  सौर  heating , solar  photovoltaics   ,   सौर   थर्मल   विद्युत  , solar architecture and  कृत्रिम  photosynthesis ,  जिससे  can make  considerable  contributions  to   solving   कुछ   of   the   सबसे  urgent  उर्जा   समस्याएं  the world  अभी  faces .
Solar technologies are  broadly  characterized as  either  passive  सौर  or  क्रियाशील  solar depending  on  the  रास्ता  they  कैप्चर   ,  convert and distribute  सौर  energy .
Active  सौर  techniques include  the   उपयोग   of  photovoltaic  panels   और  solar  थर्मल   collectors   to   दोहन  the energy .
Passive  सौर  techniques include  orienting  a  भवन   to   the   सूर्य  , selecting  सामग्री  with favorable thermal  द्रव्यमान  or light dispersing properties , and designing spaces  कि  naturally circulate air .
in  2011 , the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   उर्जा  Agency said that `` the  विकास  of affordable  ,  inexhaustible  और  clean solar energy technologies  होगा  have  विशाल  longer-term benefits  .
It will increase countries’ energy security  through  reliance  on  an  स्वदेशी   ,  inexhaustible and mostly  import-independent  resource , enhance  स्थिरता  , reduce pollution , lower the costs of mitigating climate change  ,  and  रखना  fossil  ईंधन  prices lower than  वरना   .
These advantages are  वैश्विक  .
Hence  the   अतिरिक्त  costs of the incentives for early  deployment   चाहिए  be considered learning  निवेश   ;  they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
the   शास्त्रीय   लैटिन  alphabet or Roman  वर्णमाला  evolved  इससे   a   पश्चिमी   किस्में  of  the  Greek alphabet  पुकारा  the Cumaean  वर्णमाला  , which  थी  adopted and modified by  the   etruscans   जो  ruled early Rome .
The Etruscan  वर्णमाला  was in turn adopted and further modified  by  the ancient Romans  to   लिखें   the  Latin  भाषा  .
During  the  Middle Ages ,  the  Latin alphabet was adapted  to   रोमांस   भाषाएं   ,  direct  वंशजों   of   लैटिन  , as  खूब   as   to   सेल्टिक   ,   germanic  , Baltic ,  और  some  स्लावी   भाषाएं  .
With  the  age  of  colonialism  और  Christian evangelism  ,   the  Latin  स्क्रिप्ट  was spread overseas  ,   और   लागू  to  स्वदेशी  American ,  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  , Austronesian ,  austroasiatic   ,   और  African  भाषाएं  .
More recently ,  linguists  have  भी   tended  to prefer  the  Latin  स्क्रिप्ट  or  the  International Phonetic Alphabet (  itself  largely based on  लैटिन   स्क्रिप्ट  ) when  transcribing   or  creating  लिखा   मानकों   लिये   non-european  languages , such as the  अफ़्रीकी   सन्दर्भ  alphabet  .
the  term Latin alphabet  may  refer to either the alphabet  प्रयुक्त  to  लिखें   लैटिन   (   as   वर्णित  in this article )  ,   or  other alphabets based  on  the  लैटिन   स्क्रिप्ट   ,   जिससे  is the basic  नियत  of  अक्षर  common  to  the  विभिन्न  alphabets descended from  the  classical Latin  एक  , such as the English  वर्णमाला  .
These Latin-derived alphabets may discard letters ,  जैसे   the   rotokas  alphabet , or  add  new  अक्षर   ,  like the  डैनिश   और  Norwegian alphabet .
अक्षर   आकार   have   बदला  over  the   सदियां  , including the  सृष्टि  for Medieval Latin  of  lower case  फ़ॉर्म  which did not  मौजूद  in  the  Classical  काल  .
The assassination of  संयुक्त  States  अध्यक्ष   अब्राहम  Lincoln took place  on   शुभ  Friday , April  14  , 1865  ,   as   the   अमरीकी  Civil  युद्ध   थी  drawing to  a  close  .
the  assassination  occurred  five  दिनों   बाद  the  कमांडर  of  the  Confederate Army  of  Northern  वर्जिनिया   ,  General Robert E.  ली  ,  surrendered  to  लेफ्टिनेंट  General  ulysses   S.  Grant  और  the  संघ  Army of the  potomac  .
Lincoln was the  पहला  American president  to  be  assassinated  ,  हालांकि   an   unsuccessful  attempt had  महरूम   बना   on   एंड्रयू  Jackson 30  सालो  before  in   1835  .
The assassination was planned and carried out by the  well-known  stage  कर्ता  John  wilkes  Booth  ,  as  भाग  of a  larger  conspiracy in a bid  to  revive the Confederate  कारण  .
बूथ  's  co-conspirators  were  लुईस   पावेल   और  David Herold , who  यहूद   आबंटित  to kill Secretary of State William H.  seward   ,  and  जार्ज  Atzerodt  जो  was  to  kill  वाइस   अध्यक्ष   एंड्रयू   जॉनसन  .
by  simultaneously eliminating the top three people  in  the administration ,  बूथ  and his  co-conspirators   hoped  to sever  the  continuity of the  संयुक्त  States  सरकारी  .
lincoln   थी   शॉट   जबकि   watching   the   खेल   हमारी  American  cousin   साथ   उसके  wife Mary  टॉड   lincoln   at   घाट  's  थिएटर  in  वॉशिंगटन   ,  D.C. on the night  of   अप्रैल   14  ,  1865   .
He died  जल्दी   the   अगला  morning .
The  बाकी   of  the conspirators '  प्लाट  failed  ;  Powell  तभी  managed to wound Seward  ,   जबकि  Atzerodt  ,  Johnson 's would-be  हत्यारे  , lost his nerve  और   fled  Washington  .
Add-on might mean:
Plug-in ( computing )  ,   a   टुकड़ा  of  तन्त्र  which  enhances   another  software application and  प्रायः  can  नहीं   be   चलाएं  independently
Browser  एक्सटेंशन   ,   जिससे  modifies the interface and/or behavior of web  browsers
Add-on  (  Mozilla  )   ,   a  piece of software  कि  enhances and  customizes  Mozilla-based  अनुप्रयोग
Add-ons  लिये  Firefox  (   addons.mozilla.org  ) , the official Mozilla Foundation  वेब   साईट   जिससे   serves  as a repository of add-ons for Mozilla-based applications
परिधीय  ,  an  optional computer  हार्डवेयर  component that significantly supplements  or  enhances the functionality of the original  ईकाई
Video  खेल  accessory  ,  a piece  of   हार्डवेयर  used in  संयोजन  with  a  video  खेल   कंसोल  for playing video games
क्लबों   स्तर  seating  is   a   खास   खण्ड  of  seating   in   आधुनिक  sports stadiums  .
the   क्लबों   स्तर   is   प्रायः   स्तिथ   towards  the  मध्य  of  the  stage of seating sections , above  the   निम्नतर  deck but  नीचे  the  अपर   डेक   .
वे   हैं  usually  सही  next  to   the   लक्ज़री   बाक्स  , either  सही   ऊपर  , right below , or sandwiched between two levels of Luxury Boxes .
Club Level  seating   is  considered as  उच्चतर   क्लास  than sitting anywhere else in the  एरिना   ,   लकिन   निम्नतर  class compared  to   the   लक्ज़री  Boxes  .
नापसंद   the   लक्ज़री   बाक्स   ,   सबसे  club levels do  नहीं   रैप  entirely  around  the arena .
Some club levels stop  at  a  निश्चित   पाइंट  , giving  रास्ता   to   an   विस्तार  of the Mezzanine  ,   जबकि   अन्य   दे   रास्ता  to  निम्नतर   क्लास   लक्ज़री   बाक्स  ( such  as  ``  पार्टी  Suites '' ) .
A notable exception  to  this  is  Emirates Stadium in  लंदन   ,  which has a  पूरा  tier of  क्लबों  seating  .
Club  स्तर  allow  प्रशंसक  multiple  स्तर  of  entertainment  .
Club Level seating is open to  the  elements  ,   as   opposed   to   the   entirely  enclosed  लक्ज़री   बाक्स  , which  देता  more of an outdoors impression at  roofless   और  open-roof stadiums  और  arenas .
Club  स्तर   seating   is  normally bought on a contract basis  to   allow   लिये  maximum profit  on  the  भाग  of  the   स्टेडियम  .
the  Club Level provides  प्रशंसक  with  खास  access to an  अंदर   भाग  of the arena exclusive  to   प्रशंसक  with  खास  tickets .
These areas  हैं   एयर   conditioned   और  allow access to special restaurants , merchandise stands , and lounge  क्षेत्रों   of  the stadium that  हैं  not  वरना  available .
Concession  स्टैंड  and vendors on the Club  स्तर  also often offer  अलग  menus than in other  स्टैंड  to  दे   अधिक  of a  खास   महसूस  to  the   क्लबों  .
ये   क्षेत्रों  are closed off to the rest of  the  stadium  ,  and  वे  usually  can  only  be  accessed through the exclusive  ,  private club entrances .
sophia   लोरेन  (  ;  born Sofia Villani  scicolone  ; 20 September 1934 ) is  an   इतालवी  actress  .
लोरेन  is widely recognized as Italy 's  सबसे  renowned  और  honored actress .
She was  the   पहला   अभिनेत्री  of the talkie  era  to win  an  Academy  पुरस्कार  for a non-English-speaking  प्रदर्शन  ,  लिये  her  portrayal  of  cesira  in Vittorio  de  Sica  's  Two Women  .
Her other  पुरस्कार   शामिल   a  Grammy Award ,  पाँच  special Golden  ग्लोब्स   ,  a BAFTA Award and a Laurel  पुरस्कार   .
In  1995   वो   प्राप्त   the  Cecil  B.  DeMille Award for  आजीवन  achievements ,  एक  of many such  पुरस्कार   .
उसके   films   शामिल   :  Houseboat (  1958   )   ,   el  Cid (  1961   )   ,  Yesterday ,  आज  and Tomorrow  (   1963  ) , Marriage  italian-style   (  1964  )  , and  a  Special  दिन   (  1977  )   .
In later years she has  appeared   in  American blockbusters such as  grumpier   बूढ़ा  Men  (  1995 ) ,  और   नौ   (  2009 )  .
In 1994 she  स्ट्रक्चर   in   रॉबर्ट  Altman 's  prêt-à-porter  , which earned her  a  Golden Globe  नामांकन  the same year .
She has also achieved  नाजुक  and commercial success in TV movies such  as  Courage ( 1986  )   .
मौतों  for  self-inflicted   चोटों   प्रति  100,000  निवासियों  in 2004  .
incidence   of   आत्महत्या   is   underreported   due   to  both religious  और   सोशल  pressures  ,  and possibly completely  unreported  in some areas .
nevertheless  , from reported cases ,  निश्चित  trends  हैं  apparent  .
Since the data is  skewed   ,  comparing suicide rates between  राष्ट्र  is  statistically   unsound   .
The trends themselves  हैं  not  the  cause ,  लकिन   may  be indicative  of  a  रूट   कारण  .
the  Oprah Winfrey  नेतृत्व   अकादमी  for Girls  -  South Africa is a  मादा  boarding school founded  in  January  2007  and located  in   henley  on Klip  निकट  Meyerton , south of  जोहान्सबर्ग   ,   दक्षिण  Africa  .
The academy was founded  by   ओपरा  Winfrey with  the  goal of  providing  educational and leadership opportunities  लिये  academically gifted girls  इससे  impoverished backgrounds .
Oprah Winfrey  नेतृत्व  Academy for Girls
Digicel is  a  mobile phone  संजाल  provider  ऑपरेटिंग  in 31 markets across the  caribbean  ,  सेंट्रल  America  ,   और   महासागरीय  regions  .
the  company is  स्वामित्व   by  Irishman Denis O'Brien  ,  is  incorporated  in Bermuda  ,   और   आधारित   in   जमैका  .
it   रै  about 13  लाख  wireless users  .
as   of   2012  , Digicel  's  markets  comprise   :   एंगुइला  , Antigua  और   बारबूडा  , Aruba  ,   बारबाडोस  , Bermuda , Bonaire  ,   the   अंग्रेजों   वर्जिन  Islands  ,  the  केमन   आइलैंड्स  , Curacao ,  डोमिनिकन  ,  el  Salvador  ,  Fiji ,  फ्रेंच  Guiana , Grenada  ,  Guadeloupe ,  गुयाना   ,  Haiti  ,  Jamaica  ,   मार्टीनिक  , Nauru , Panama , Papua New  गिनी   ,  Samoa , Saint  किट्स   और  Nevis  ,  Saint  लूसिया   ,   संत   विंसेंट  and the Grenadines  ,  Suriname , Tonga , Trinidad  &   टोबैगो   ,   turks  and  caicos   ,  and Vanuatu  .
इस  is  a   सूची   of  records  of   the  FIFA  संसार   कप   और   इसके   योग्यता  matches  .
Hospital Emergency  कोड   हैं  used in hospitals worldwide to alert  स्टाफ  to various emergencies  .
The  उपयोग   of  codes  is   intended  to  convey  essential  सूचना   जल्दी   और   साथ   minimal  misunderstanding to  स्टाफ  , while preventing stress  और  panic  among  visitors to  the  hospital .
These  कोड  may  be   posted   on  placards  throughout  the hospital ,  or  printed  on  employee  पहचान   बैज   लिये   तैयार   सन्दर्भ   .
Back of a hospital ID badge showing disaster codes .
Hospital  आपात  codes  may  denote different events at different hospitals ,  सहित   आसपास   ones   .
Because many physicians work  at   अधिक  than one  सुविधा  , this  may  lead to confusion in emergencies , so  वर्दी   प्रणालियों  have  महरूम  proposed  .
The route  of   the  Eifel  जलसेतु  ,  साथ   इसके  average slope .
The Eifel  जलसेतु  was  एक   of  the  longest  aqueducts of the Roman Empire .
the  aqueduct ,  constructed  in  ad  80 ,  carried  water some from the  hilly  Eifel region  of  what is  अभी   जर्मनी   to   the   प्राचीन  city  of   colonia  Claudia Ara  agrippinensium  ( present-day Cologne ) .
If  the   auxiliary  spurs  to  additional springs are  शामिल  ,  the  length  थी   .
the  construction was almost entirely  नीचे  ground ,  और   the  flow of the water  थी  produced entirely by gravity  .
A  few   पुलों  ,  सहित  one  up   to  in  लंबाई   ,  were  needed  to  pass  over valleys .
Unlike some of the other  प्रसिद्ध  Roman aqueducts , the  eifel   जलसेतु   थी  specifically designed to  minimize  the above-ground portion  to   protect  it from damage and  जमने  .
In chemistry ,  a   disulfide   बंध  ( Br.E .  disulphide  bond  )   is  a  covalent  bond  ,  usually  निकला   by   the   coupling  of two thiol groups .
the   linkage  is also called an SS-bond or disulfide  सेतु   .
the  overall  कनेक्टिविटी  is therefore R-S-S-R  .
The terminology is widely used  in  biochemistry .
in   औपचारिक   शर्तें   ,   the  connection  is  a  persulfide  ,  in  analogy to its  congener  , peroxide ( R-O-O-R  )  ,  लकिन   इस  terminology  is  obscure and  is   no   longer  used ( except in reference to R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H compounds ) .
Formal depiction  of  disulfide bond  गठन  as  an  oxidation  .
Westminster Abbey is used for the coronation  of   अंग्रेजों   monarchs
धर्म  in the United  किंगडम  and in the countries  कि   preceded  it , has  महरूम  dominated  ,   लिये  over  1,400  years ,  by   विभिन्न   फ़ॉर्म  of  christianity   .
According to some  सर्वेक्षण   ,   a   बहुमत  of  नागरिकों  still identify with Christianity ,  हालांकि  regular  गिरिजाघर   उपस्थिति  has fallen  dramatically  since the  मध्य  of  the   20th   सदी  ,  और   आव्रजन  and demographic change  have   contributed  to  the  growth of other faiths .
धार्मिक   संबद्धों  of UK citizens  हैं   अंकित   by   नियमित   सर्वेक्षण   ,   the   चार  major  ones   होने  the  uk   जनसांख्यिकी   ,  the Labour  फ़ोर्स  Survey  ,   the   अंग्रेजों  Social  attitudes  survey  और   the   यूरोपीय  Social  सर्वेक्षण   .
according   to  the 2001 UK census  ,  Christianity is the  प्रमुख   धर्म  , followed by  islam  , Hinduism , Sikhism ,  judaism  and  buddhism  in  शर्तें  of number of adherents .
This , and the  अपेक्षाकृत  large  क्रमांक   of   individuals  with nominal or  no  religious  संबद्धों  has  led   टीकाकारों   to  variously describe the  संयुक्त  Kingdom as  a   multi-faith  ,  secularised  , or post-Christian society .
the  United Kingdom  थी   formed  by the  संघ  of previously  स्वतंत्र  countries from 1707 ,  और   नतीजतन   सबसे  of the largest religious  समूह  do  नहीं   have   uk-wide  organisational  structures   .
While  कुछ   समूह   have  separate  structures   लिये   the  individual countries  of  the United Kingdom  ,   अन्य  may  have  a single structure covering  इंग्लैण्ड   और   वेल्स  or  ग्रेट  Britain  .
similarly   ,  due to  the   अपेक्षाकृत   हाल   सृष्टि  of Northern Ireland in  1921   ,  most  प्रमुख   धार्मिक  groups in Northern  आयरलैंड   हैं  organised on an  all-ireland   आधार  .
the   1967   न्यूर्क  riots were a major  सिविल  disturbance  कि   occurred   in  the city  of   न्यूर्क  , New Jersey  between  July 12  और  July 17  ,   1967  .
the  six days of rioting ,  लूटने   ,  and destruction  बाएँ  26  मुर्दे   और   सैंकड़ों   घायल  .
In United  राज्य  college athletics  ,  redshirt is a delay or  बर्खास्तगी   of  an athlete 's participation  in   अनुक्रम  to  lengthen   उसके   or  her period of eligibility .
Typically , a student  's  athletic  पात्रता  in a  दिए  sport is four  सीज़न   ,  a number  निकला  from the four  सालो  of  अकादमिक   वर्ग   कि   हैं  normally required to  obtain   a  bachelor 's degree at  an  American  कॉलेज  or university  .
however  , a  छात्र  athlete  may  be offered  the  opportunity  to  redshirt  लिये  up to two  सालो   ,  which allows  the  athlete  to   स्प्रेड  those  चार  years  of  eligibility over five , or sometimes  छह   सालो  .
In  a  redshirt  साल  , a student  खिलाड़ी  may attend classes at  the  college  or  university  ,  practice  साथ   an   एथलेटिक   टोली  , and dress for play but he or  वो  may not  compete   दौरान   the  game  .
using   इस  mechanism ,  a   छात्र   खिलाड़ी   रै  up  to  five  अकादमिक   सालो   to  use  the   चार  years of eligibility , thus becoming a fifth-year  वरिष्ठ   .
the   पद  is  प्रयुक्त  as a verb , noun , and adjective .
लिये   उदाहरण  , a coach  may  choose to  redshirt   a  player who  is   तब  referred to as  a  redshirt freshman or  बस   a   redshirt  .
The opposite of this is a  ``  true freshman  .  ''
संसार  War I ( WWI  )   थी  a global  युद्ध  centred in Europe  कि   began   on  28 July  1914   और  lasted  जबतक   11  November  1918  .
It was  predominantly   पुकारा  the World War  or  the Great  युद्ध  from its  occurrence  until the  प्रारंभ  of  संसार   युद्ध  II in 1939  ,   और   the  First  संसार   युद्ध  or  संसार   युद्ध   i   thereafter  .
it  involved all the world  's  great  शक्तियां  , which were  समवेत   in  two  opposing   alliances  :  the   allies  ( based on the Triple Entente of the  संयुक्त  Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the  ट्रिपल  Alliance of Germany  ,  Austria-Hungary and Italy ;  लकिन   ,  as  austria–hungary  had taken  the  offensive  विरूद्ध  the  अनुबंध  , Italy did  नहीं   डालें   into  the war ) .
These alliances were  दोनो   reorganised   और  expanded as more  राष्ट्र   डाला  the war :  इटली  ,  जापानी  and  the   संयुक्त  States joined the Allies , and  the   उस्मानी  Empire and Bulgaria the  सेंट्रल  Powers .
Ultimately  ,   अधिक  than 70 million military personnel ,  सहित   60   लाख   europeans  , were  mobilised   in  one  of  the largest wars in  इतिहास   .
अधिक   than  9 million  combatants  were  मारे   ,  largely because of technological  advancements   कि  led to enormous  increases   in  the lethality  of  weapons without  सम्बन्धित  improvements in protection or mobility .
It was  the  fifth-  deadliest  conflict in world  इतिहास  , subsequently paving  the  way  लिये   विभिन्न  political  परिवर्तन  ,  ऐसे   as  revolutions in  अनेक  of the  राष्ट्र  involved  .
एक  of  the  long-term causes  of  the war was  the  resurgence of imperialism in  the   विदेशी  policies of  the  great  शक्तियां  of  यूरोपीय  .
More  तत्काल  , the  हत्या  of Archduke  फ्रांज   फर्डिनेंड  of  ऑस्ट्रिया  ,  the  heir  to  the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June  1914   by   यूगोस्लाव   राष्ट्रवादी   gavrilo   princip  in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary  subsequently  delivered  an  ultimatum  to   the  Kingdom of Serbia  .
Several  alliances  formed  over  the previous  दशकों  were  invoked  .
Within  सप्ताह   ,  the major  शक्तियां  were at war and , via  उनके   colonies   ,   the   विरोध  soon spread around the world  .
on  28  जुलाई   ,   the  Austro-Hungarians fired the  पहला  shots  of  the  युद्ध  as preparation for the  आक्रमण  of  सर्बिया  .
While the Russians  mobilised   ,  the Germans  invaded  neutral Belgium and  ध्वज  on the  रास्ता   to   फ़्रांस   ,   providing  a casus belli for Britain  's  declaration of war against  जर्मनी  .
After the German march on  पेरिस  was  brought   to  a halt—the so-called Miracle  of  the  marne   —the   पश्चिमी   सामने  settled into a  स्थिर   बैटल   of  attrition with  a   गर्त  line that  बदला  little until  1917   .
on   the   पूर्वी  Front  ,  the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians ,  लकिन   थी   रोका   in  its  आक्रमण   of  East Prussia  by  the  germans  .
In  नवम्बर  the Ottoman Empire  joined  the war , opening  up   fronts  in the Caucasus  ,   मेसोपोटामिया   और   the  Sinai .
Italy and  बुल्गारिया  went  to  war  in  1915 and Romania in  1916   .
in  Russia  ,   the  tsar 's  सरकारी   collapsed  in  कूच  1917  और  a  subsequent   क्रान्ति   in  November brought the  russians   to  terms  साथ  the Central  शक्तियां  .
After  a  1918  जर्मनी  offensive along the western front , the Allies drove  वापस   the   germans   in   a  series of successful offensives and American forces began  प्रवेश  the trenches  .
Germany , which had its own  ट्रबल   साथ  revolutionaries , agreed to  an  armistice on  11  November 1918  .
The  युद्ध  ended in victory  लिये  the  allies  .
Events on the home fronts  यहूद  as  उग्र   as  on the  बैटल   fronts  ,  as  the participants tried  to  mobilize their  जनशक्ति  and economic resources to fight a  कुल  war .
By  the   समाप्त   of  the war  ,  four major imperial powers—the German  ,  Russian ,  austro-hungarian  and Ottoman  empires—ceased   to   मौजूद   .
the  successor states  of  the former  दो  lost a great amount  of   territory   ,  while  the  latter two were  dismantled  entirely  .
the  map of  सेंट्रल  Europe was  redrawn  into several smaller  राज्य  .
the   लीग  of  राष्ट्र  was formed in  the   आशा   of  preventing another such  विरोध  .
the   यूरोपीय   राष्ट्रवाद  spawned by the  युद्ध   और  the  ब्रेकअप  of empires , the repercussions  of   जर्मनी  's defeat and  समस्याएं  with the Treaty  of   versailles  are agreed  to  be factors  contributing   to  World War  ii  .
मैप   of   देशों  that  घोषित   themselves   to  be  समाजवादी  states  अंतर्गत   the   marxist–leninist   or  Maoist definition  -  that is  to  say , ``  कम्युनिस्ट   राज्य  ''  -  between 1979 and  1983   .
इस  period  चिह्नित  the greatest  territorial  extent of Communist states .
a  communist state  is   a  state  जहाँ  the  अर्थात्  of  उत्पादन  are collectively owned by  the  society  .
it  has  a   रूप  of government characterized by  single-party  rule  or   dominant-party   नियम   of  a communist party  (  referred  as   तानाशाही  of the  proletariat  by  इसके   proponents  ) and  a   professed   निष्ठा   to  a  leninist  or  marxist–leninist   विचारधारा   as   the  guiding  principle   of  the state  .
technically  ,  ``   कम्युनिस्ट  state  ''  is  a   contradictio  in terminis as a communist society  as   पारिभाषित  by both  माक्र्सवादी   और   anarcho-communists   is  in  principle   stateless  .
From  इस   परिप्रेक्ष्य   ,  the  पद  Marxist-Leninist state is  अधिक  appropriate  .
historically  ,  a  ``  कम्युनिस्ट  state  ''  referred to a system  जहाँ  public  स्वामित्व  of all  or  most means of  उत्पादन  by  the  Communist  पार्टी  -run state is  deemed  necessary to further the  रूचि  of  the  working  क्लास   ;  today ,  a   कम्युनिस्ट   राज्य  can also , for instance  ,  refer to contemporary China and Vietnam  ,   जहाँ  a Communist Party-run  राज्य  exists  alongside   a  mixed economy .
According to Marxist–Leninists , the  राज्य  is  a  tool in the hands of the ruling class ,  जिससे   in  a socialist society  is   the   working   क्लास  ,  so   a  socialist state is ,  according   to  Leninists , a state of the working class  .
In  अभ्यास   ,   कम्युनिस्ट  states  do  not actually  refer   to   themselves   as  such .
They do this  नहीं  to disguise the fact that the  सत्ताधारी  party is  कम्युनिस्ट   ,   लकिन  rather  क्युकी  they do not  consider   themselves   to   be  a communist  समाज   at  present  .
बजाय  ,  वे   constitutionally   पहचानो   themselves  as socialist states  or  workers  '  states  .
the  primary  लक्ष्य   of  these  राज्य  ,  जिससे  also explains  उनके  official name ,  is  to guide their  संबंधित  countries in the process  of  building socialism , ultimately  अग्रणी  to communism  .
Communist  राज्य  may  have  several legal political parties  ,  but  the  communist party  is   प्रायः   granted   a   खास  or  प्रबल   भूमिका   in   सरकारी  ,  प्रायः   by  statute or under  the  constitution  .
नतीजतन   ,   the  institutions of  the  state and of the communist party  become  intimately entwined ,  ऐसे   as  in the  विकास  of parallel  संस्थानों   .
In the 20th century ,  सबसे  communist states adopted  नियोजित  economies .
however  ,  वहीँ   यहूद  exceptions : The Soviet Union during the  1920s  and late 1980s and  यूगोस्लाविया  after World War II allowed limited markets and a  उपाधि  of  कार्यकर्ता   self-management  ,  जबकि  China  ,  Vietnam  और   लाओस  introduced  far-reaching   मार्केट   reforms   बाद  the  1980s   .
In the 21st  सदी  , China  और   वियतनाम  have allowed a  मिश्रित   अर्थव्यवस्था  to develop  .
The  आधारभूत   अवधारणाओं  of  कम्युनिस्ट  states often diverge from the original  socio-economic   विचारधाराओं  from which  वे  develop  .
as  a  परिणाम  , many  adherents   of  these ideologies often oppose the  राजनैतिक   प्रणालियों  commonly associated  साथ   ये   राज्य   .
For  उदाहरण   ,   dissenting  communists  ऐसे  as Trotskyists were often  opposed  to the communist states  of  the  20th  century ,  claiming  either  कि  they had  nothing  to  do   साथ  `` real '' communism  or   कि  the ideology of  ऐसे  states  था  reached a point of irrevocable  भ्रष्टाचार  .
माइकल  Fred  फेल्प्स   ii  ( born June 30 , 1985 )  is  a retired American  तैराक  and the most  सजा  Olympian  of   सब   समय   ,  with  a   कुल  of 22  medals  .
फेल्प्स  also holds  the  all-time  रिकॉर्ड  for Olympic gold medals (  18   ,  double the second  उच्चतम  record holders  )   ,  Olympic gold  medals  in individual  कार्यक्रम   (  11  )   ,  and Olympic  medals   in   व्यक्तिगत  events for a  पुरूष   (  13 )  .
In winning  आठ  gold  medals   at  the 2008  बीजिंग  Games , Phelps took the record for  the  most first-place finishes  at  any  सिंगल  Olympic  खेल  .
पाँच  of those  victories  were  in  individual events  ,  tying the  सिंगल  Games record  .
In  the  2012 Summer Olympics  in   लंदन  ,  फेल्प्स  won  चार  golds and two silver medals ,  बनाना   उसे   the  most successful athlete  of   the  Games  लिये   the  third Olympics  in  a row  .
Phelps is the  long  course world  recordholder   in   the   100-meter  butterfly  ,  200-meter butterfly and  400-meter  individual  medley  as well as the former  long  course  संसार  recordholder  in  the 200-meter  फ्रीस्टाइल  and  200-meter  individual  medley  .
He  रै   जीती   a   कुल   of  71  medals   in  major  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   long-course  competition  ,   57  gold , 11  चांदी  ,  और  three bronze  spanning  the Olympics  ,  the  संसार  ,  और  the  पण  Pacific  championships   .
फेल्प्स   's   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   शीर्षक   और  record-breaking  प्रदर्शन  have  अर्जित   उसे  the World Swimmer of  the  Year Award seven  टाइम्स   और  American Swimmer of the  साल   पुरस्कार   नौ  times as  खूब   as   the  FINA Swimmer of the  साल  Award in 2012 .
His  unprecedented  Olympic success in 2008 earned Phelps  खेल  Illustrated  पत्रिका   's   sportsman  of  the   साल  award .
बाद   the  2008 Summer Olympics ,  फेल्प्स   प्रारंभ   the  Michael Phelps  न्यास   ,  which focuses on  growing  the  खेल   of   तैराकी  and promoting  healthier  lifestyles .
he  expects to  do  further  कार्य   साथ   उसके   न्यास  after the  2012  Olympics  ,   जिससे  he has said will  be   उसके  last  .
Lenovo Group Limited ( ) is a  चाइनीज  multinational computer  हार्डवेयर  and  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स   कम्पनी   साथ   इसके   मुख्यालय   in  Beijing , China  और   morrisville  , North Carolina  और  its  पंजीकृत   दफ्तर   in   हांग   काँग  ,  चीन   .
Its products include personal computers ,  टैब्लेट  computers  ,   मोबाईल   फोन  , workstations , servers , electronic  भंडार  devices , IT  प्रबन्धन  software  और  smart televisions .
Lenovo  is   the  world  's   second-largest   pc   विक्रेता   by   2012   ईकाई  sales  .
It  बाज़ार  the ThinkPad  लकीर  of  कोपी   कंप्यूटर  and the  thinkcentre  line of  desktops   .
लेनोवो   रै   परिचालन  in  अधिक   than  60 countries  और  sells its  उत्पाद  in around  160  countries .
Lenovo was  संस्थापित   in  Beijing  in  1984  और  incorporated in Hong  काँग  in 1988 under its previous name  ,  Legend .
Lenovo  is  listed on  the  Hong Kong Stock  एक्सचेंज   और   is   a  constituent of the Hang  सेंग   china-affiliated  Corporations  अनुक्रमणिका  .
स्लग  is  a  common  नाम  for  an   जाहिर  shell-less terrestrial  gastropod  mollusk  .
the  word `` slug '' is also  प्रायः   प्रयुक्त   as   भाग  of  the  common  नाम   of  any gastropod  mollusc  that has no  शेल  , has  a  very  घटाया  shell , or has  तभी   a   छोटी  internal shell .
(  This  is   in  contrast to the common name ``  घोंघा  ``  ,  which  is  applied to  gastropods   कि  have a coiled shell that  is  large enough that the soft  भाग   of   the  animal  can  retract fully into it . )
Slugs exist  on   जमीन   और  in  the   समुद्र   ,  and there is  भी   एक  genus of freshwater  slugs  ,  acochlidium  .
the   unadorned   शब्द   ``  slug '' is however  लागू  primarily to  जमीन  slugs  ,   whereas  slugs from the sea or from  freshwater  are  प्रायः  referred to  as  `` sea slugs ``  और   ``  freshwater  slugs   ''   .
जमीन  gastropods with  a   शेल  that is not quite vestigial ,  लकिन  is  too  small  to  retract into ( like  अनेक  in the  परिवार   urocyclidae  ) ,  हैं   ज्ञात  as  semislugs  .
The  विभिन्न   taxonomic  families of slugs form part of  अनेक  quite  अलग  evolutionary  lineages   जिससे   भी   शामिल   घोंघे  .
Thus , for  उदाहरण   ,  the  विभिन्न  families  of   जमीन  slugs  हैं   नहीं  very  closely  related to one another ,  despite  a superficial  समानता  in  the  overall  देह  form .
The shell-less condition has  arisen   अनेक  times  independently   दौरान   the  evolutionary  पास्ट  , and thus the category `` slug ''  is   emphatically   a  polyphyletic  एक   .
slugs   ,  like all  अन्य   gastropods   ,   undergo  torsion ( a 180°  टेढ़ी   of  the internal organs ) during  विकास  .
Internally , slug anatomy clearly shows the effects  of  this rotation  ,   लकिन  externally the  लाशें  of land slugs appear  to   be   अधिक   or  less symmetrical  ,  except  लिये   the  positioning  of  the pneumostome , which  is   on  one  पक्ष  of the  एनिमल   ,   सामान्यतः   the   सही   हाथ  side  .
The  नरम  ,  slimy   लाशें  of slugs are  prone  to desiccation , so  land-living  slugs are confined  to  moist  environments   और   जरूर  retreat to  नम   छुपाना  places when the weather  is   शुष्क  .
the   subsequent   सूचना   in  this  आलेख   applies  to land  slugs   .
is a Latin word that  अर्थात्  `` thus '' or  ,  in writing , `` it was thus in the source material '' .
sic   may  also refer to:
Sic  ,  Cluj , a commune  in  Romania
SIC , the  क्षेत्रीय  code for  सिसिली
Sic ( noise  कलाकार  ) , styled  as  [ sic ]  ,  stage  नाम  of Jennifer Morris  ,  a  कनाडाई   रव   कलाकार
sic  ( band  )  is  a   आधुनिक  Hardcore/Thrash metal  बैंड   इससे   torshavn  ,  the   पूंजी  of  the  Faroe Islands
``   (  sic ) '' ,  a  song by American band Slipknot on  the   एल्बम  Slipknot
SIC , the  आरंभिक   of  Marco  simoncelli  .
SIC as  an  acronym may stand for:
SiC , Silicon carbide , a  semiconducting  material  ,  also used to  मेक  metalworking tools
sic  (  cyclecar   )   (  Società  इटालियाना   cyclecars  )
Standard  औद्योगिक   वर्गीकरण  , a 20th-century U.S. system  लिये  classifying industries
International Standard Industrial  वर्गीकरण  a UN  प्रणाली  for economic activities
Shetland Islands Council
the  स्विस  Interbank Clearing system
San Isidro Club  ,   an  Argentine  रग्बी  union  क्लबों
खड़ा   निर्वचन  Committee  ,  a  कमेटी  dedicated to  the   निर्वचन   of  international accounting standards  ifrs
Schwarz  सूचना   मानदंड   in  the field of statistics
Second-in-command in  the  field of aviation
Sistema  interconectado   सेंट्रल  power  ग्रिड   in   चिली
sociedade  Independente de Comunicação ( SIC ) , a television channel in Portugal
समुद्र   आइल  City , New Jersey  ,  a coastal town in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य
segmented   पूर्णांक   काउंटर   विधि  , a  विधि   of   आपरेशन  in  क्रिप्टोग्राफी
Sepang  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Circuit , a high-end racetrack  कि  hosts  the  Malaysian round of  सूत्र   1
शंघाई  International Circuit , a  मोटर   रेसिंग   स्थान   in  Shanghai  ,   चीन
Simplified instructional  कंप्यूटर  , a  काल्पनिक  computer  प्रयुक्त   in   प्रणालियों   प्रोग्रामिंग
SIC  (  Sons  idées   couleurs  ) ,  an  early twentieth-century art magazine produced  by   फ्रेंच   लेखक  Pierre Albert-Birot
southeastern   इलिनोइस  College  ,  a two year Junior College  in  Harrisburg , Illinois , United  राज्य
विशिष्ट  inductive  क्षमता  , abbreviated  to   sic  ,  जिससे  is more commonly  ज्ञात  as  the  relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
st  Ignatius ' College  ,   riverview   ,  a  जेसुइट  school in Sydney , Australia
Imperial  मानक  of  नेपोलियन  I
Napoleon Bonaparte ( , ; 15  अगस्त  1769  –  5  may   1821  )  थी  a  फ्रेंच  military and political leader who rose  to  prominence  दौरान   the   latter  stages of  the  French Revolution and its associated wars  in   यूरोपीय  .
As  नेपोलियन  I , he was Emperor of  the  French from 1804 to 1815  .
His legal reform ,  the  Napoleonic  कोड  , has  महरूम  a major influence  on  many  सिविल  law jurisdictions worldwide  ,  but he  is  best remembered for  उसके  role in  the   युद्धों   led   विरूद्ध   फ़्रांस  by a series  of  coalitions  ,   the  so-called Napoleonic  युद्धों   .
He established hegemony  over  most of  महाद्वीपीय   यूरोपीय  and sought to spread  the   आदर्शों  of  the   फ्रेंच  Revolution , while consolidating an imperial  साम्राज्य  which  लौटी  aspects  of   the   अपदस्थ  Ancien Régime .
Due  to  his success in these  युद्धों   ,   प्रायः   विरूद्ध   numerically   श्रेष्ठ  enemies , he is generally  regarded   as   एक  of the  महानतम  military  कमांडरों  of  सब   समय   ,  and his  अभियान   हैं  studied at military  अकादमियों   विश्वव्यापी   .
नेपोलियन  was  born  at Ajaccio in Corsica in a  परिवार   of   प्रतिष्ठित   इतालवी  ancestry  जिससे   था   settled  Corsica  in  the 16th century  .
He trained  as  an  तोपखाने  officer  in   मेनलैंड   फ़्रांस  .
he   रोज़   to   prominence  under  the   फ्रेंच  First Republic  और  led successful  अभियान  against the First and Second Coalitions arrayed  विरूद्ध   फ़्रांस   .
he   led  a  कामयाब   आक्रमण   of   the   इतालवी   प्रायद्वीप   .
in  1799 ,  he  staged a  तख्तापलट  d'état  और  installed himself as  पहला  Consul ; five years later  the   फ्रेंच   सीनेट  proclaimed him emperor ,  following   a  plebiscite in  उसके   पक्ष  .
in   the   पहला   दशक   of  the 19th  सदी  , the  फ्रेंच  Empire under  नेपोलियन  engaged  in   a  series of  conflicts—the  Napoleonic Wars —that involved  प्रत्येक   प्रमुख   यूरोपीय   शक्ति  .
After  a   streak  of victories  ,   फ़्रांस  secured a dominant position  in   महाद्वीपीय   यूरोपीय   ,  and Napoleon maintained the  फ्रेंच  sphere  of  influence through  the   गठन   of   extensive   alliances   और   the  appointment  of  friends  और  family members  to   नियम   अन्य  European countries as French client states .
The  प्रायद्वीपीय  War and  1812  French invasion  of  Russia marked turning  अंक  in Napoleon  's  fortunes .
His Grande Armée  थी   badly  damaged in the  अभियान  and never fully recovered .
in  1813 ,  the   छठे   गठबन्धन   पराजित   उसके  forces at  लिपजिग   ;   the   following   साल  the Coalition invaded France ,  मजबूर  Napoleon to  abdicate  and exiled  उसे  to  the  island of Elba  .
कम   than  a year later , he escaped  एल्बा   और   लौटे  to power ,  लकिन  was defeated  at  the Battle of Waterloo in  जून  1815 .
नेपोलियन   खर्च   the   पिछला   छह   सालो  of his life  in  confinement  by   the   अंग्रेजों   on  the island of Saint Helena .
an   पोस्टमार्टम  concluded he died  of   पेट  cancer , but  वहीँ  has been  कुछ   बहस  about  the   कारण   of   उसके   मौत   ,  as  कुछ  scholars have  speculated   कि   he  was a  शिकार   of  arsenic  विषाक्तता  .
This  is  a  कालानुक्रमिक  listing of  the   संयुक्त  States Senators from Pennsylvania  .
United States Senators  हैं  popularly elected , for  a   six-year  term ,  शुरूआत  January 3 .
चुनावों   हैं   आयोजित  the  पहला   मंगलवार  after November 1 .
पहले  1914 ,  वे  were chosen by  the  Pennsylvania General Assembly , and  पहले  1935  ,  their terms began March 4 .
The South Africa national  रग्बी  union  टोली   (  known  as   the  Springboks  )  represents South Africa in  रग्बी  union .
They  compete  in the annual Rugby  चैंपियनशिप   ,  along  साथ  southern-hemisphere counterparts Argentina ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   और   नई   जीलैंड   .
They have won  इस   चैंपियनशिप   on  three  अवसरों   in  sixteen  सालो   .
They are currently  क्रमित  second in  the   संसार   by  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   रग्बी  Board  ,   और  were named  2008   संसार   टोली  of  the   साल  at the Laureus World  खेल  Awards .
Although South Africa was  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल  in the creation of  the  Rugby  संसार   कप  competition ,  the  Springboks  किया   नहीं   compete  in the  पहला  two World Cups in 1987  और  1991 because of anti-apartheid sporting  boycotts  of  दक्षिण   अफ़्रीकी  .
The  टोली   बना   इसके  World  कप   डेब्यू   in   1995   ,  when  the  newly democratic  दक्षिण   अफ़्रीकी   hosted   the  tournament  .
The  springboks  then  पराजित  the  सब  Blacks  15–12  in the final ,  जिससे  is now remembered  as   एक   of  the greatest moments  in   दक्षिण  Africa  's   sporting   इतिहास   ,  and a watershed moment  in  the post-Apartheid nation-building process  .
South  अफ़्रीकी   regained   उनके  title  as   champions   12   सालो  later  ,   जब  they defeated  इंग्लैण्ड  15–6 in  the  2007 final  .
As a result  of   the  2007  संसार  Cup  टूर्नामेंट   the   springboks  were  प्रचारित  to first place in the IRB  संसार  Rankings  ,  a position they held until July the  following  year when New Zealand  regained  the top spot  .
the  Springboks play  in  green and gold  jerseys  ,  और  their  प्रतीक   हैं  the Springbok  और   the   protea   .
the  side has  महरूम  playing international rugby since 1891 , when  a  British  isles   पक्ष   toured  the nation  ,  playing  दक्षिण  Africa in  उनके  first  परीक्षण  on 30 July .
South  अफ़्रीकी  was coached by  जेक   श्वेत  , who led  the  Boks to the 2007 World  कप  title  ,  announcing his resignation  effectively   इससे   the   समाप्त  of 2007 .
His replacement 's (  पीटर  de Villiers )  अनुबंध   समाप्त  in 2011 ,  following  a 11–9 defeat  to  Australia  in   the  Rugby World Cup quarter-final  ,   जो  then stated he would  नहीं   be   हस्ताक्षर  a  नई   सौदे   .
the  previous captain was John  smit  ,  जो  before he retired in 2011  निभाई  hooker for  सबसे   of   उसके   करियर   ,   हालांकि   he  has also been a  prop   ,   मुख्यतः  in 2008  और  2009 .
Due  to  Smit  होने  unavailable  लिये  the November  2010  Tests after surgery , lock Victor Matfield  took  Smit 's place  as  captain for  कि   दौरे  .
The  वर्तमान  captain is  जां  de  villiers  .
The Battle of  gettysburg   (  , with an  ध्वनि   )  , was fought July 1–3 ,  1863  ,  in  and  around  the town  of  Gettysburg , Pennsylvania .
it  was  the  battle with  the  largest  क्रमांक  of casualties in the  अमरीकी   सिविल  War and is often  वर्णित   as  the war  's   turning  point .
Union  maj.   gen.  George  गॉर्डन  Meade  's   फौज  of  the  Potomac defeated attacks  by   confederate  Gen. Robert E.  ली  's Army of  उत्तरी  Virginia  ,  ending Lee 's invasion  of   the  North .
After  उसके   कामयाबी   at  Chancellorsville in  वर्जिनिया  in  may  1863  ,  Lee led his army through the Shenandoah  घाटी  to  शुरू   उसके  second invasion  of   the   north—the  Gettysburg Campaign  .
साथ   उसके   फौज  in high  आत्माओं  ,  ली  intended to  शिफ़्ट   the  focus of the  गर्मियाँ  campaign from war-ravaged  उत्तरी  Virginia  और   hoped  to influence  उत्तरी  politicians to give  up  their prosecution  of  the  युद्ध  by penetrating  as   दूर  as Harrisburg  ,   पेन्सिलवेनिया   ,   or  even Philadelphia  .
prodded   by  President Abraham Lincoln  ,  Maj.  gen.   जोसेफ  Hooker moved  उसके   फौज  in  pursuit  ,  लकिन  was relieved  बस  three  दिनों   पहले   the  battle and replaced  by  Meade .
तत्व   of   the   दो   सेना  initially  collided  at Gettysburg on July 1  ,  1863 , as Lee  तत्काल   concentrated   उसके   शक्तियां   वहीँ  ,  उसके  objective  होने  to  engage  the Union  फौज  and destroy it .
Low ridges  to  the  उत्तरपश्चिम  of town were  defended  initially by a Union  प्यादे  division under Brig .  gen.   जॉन   buford   ,  and soon  reinforced  with two  corps  of  संघ  infantry .
however  ,  दो  large Confederate corps assaulted them  इससे  the northwest and  उत्तर   ,  collapsing the  hastily  developed Union lines , sending  the  defenders retreating through  the  streets of town to the hills just  to  the south  .
On the  दूसरी  day  of   बैटल  , most of both armies had assembled .
the  Union  लकीर  was laid  आउट  in a  रक्षात्मक   गठन  resembling a  fishhook   .
in   the  late  दोपहर  of July 2  ,   ली  launched a  भारी  assault  on  the  संघ   बाएँ  flank  ,   और   fierce  fighting  raged  at  छोटी  Round Top  ,  the  wheatfield   ,   शैतान   's  Den ,  और   the   आड़ू  Orchard  .
on  the  संघ  right  ,  demonstrations  escalated   into  full-scale assaults on Culp 's  हिल  and  कब्रिस्तान  Hill  .
सब  across  the  battlefield  ,  despite  significant  losses , the Union  defenders  held their  लाइनों   .
On the  तीसरा  day of battle  ,  July 3 , fighting resumed on Culp 's  हिल  ,  और   प्यादे  battles raged  to  the  ईस्ट  and south , but the main  इवेंट  was  a  dramatic  infantry   उत्पीड़न  by  12,500   confederates   विरूद्ध   the   बीच  of  the  Union line on  कब्रिस्तान  Ridge , known as Pickett 's Charge .
the   चार्ज  was  repulsed   by   संघ   राइफल   और   तोपखाने  fire , at  ग्रेट   नुकसान   to  the Confederate  फौज  .
Lee  led  his  फौज  on a  torturous  retreat back to  वर्जिनिया   .
Between  46,000  and 51,000  सैनिको  from  दोनो   सेना   यहूद   हताहत  in the three-day battle  .
That  नवम्बर  , President  lincoln  used  the   समर्पण   रस्म  for the  gettysburg  National Cemetery  to  honor the fallen  संघ   सैनिको   और  redefine  the  purpose of the war  in  his historic  gettysburg   पता   .
An academic  अनुशासन  , or  फ़ील्ड  of study , is a  शाखा  of knowledge that  is   सिखाया   और   शोधकार्य  at  the  college or  विश्वविद्यालयों  level .
Disciplines  हैं  defined ( in part  )  , and recognized by the academic  जर्नल्स  in which  शोध  is published  ,  and  the  learned societies and academic departments or  faculties  to  जिससे  their practitioners  belong  .
however   ,   वहीँ   exists   no   औपचारिक   मापदण्ड  for when educational  कार्यक्रम  and  scholarly   जर्नल्स  form an academic discipline  .
A huge difference exists  between  , on  the  one hand , well  स्थापित  disciplines  कि   मौजूद   in  almost  सब   विश्वविद्यालयों  all over the world , have  a   long  history  ,   और  have a  खूब  established set of journals and  सम्मेलनों  , and  ,  on the  अन्य  hand , suggestions  लिये  new fields supported  तभी   by  few universities  और  publications .
फ़ील्ड   of  study usually have several sub-disciplines  or  branches  ,   और  the  distinguishing  lines between these are  प्रायः   दोनो  arbitrary and ambiguous  .
पीएचपी   is   a  server-side scripting language  designed  for  वेब   विकास   लकिन   भी   प्रयुक्त   as   a  general-purpose programming language .
PHP  is   अभी  installed  on   अधिक   than  244 million websites  और  2.1 million web  सर्वर  .
Originally created  by  Rasmus Lerdorf  in   1995   ,  the reference implementation  of  PHP  is  now  उत्पादित  by  the   पीएचपी   समूह  .
While PHP  originally  stood for Personal Home  पेज   ,  it  अभी  stands  लिये  PHP :  हाइपरटेक्स्ट   preprocessor  , a recursive acronym  .
PHP  कोड  is  interpreted  by  a  web server  साथ  a PHP  प्रोसेसर  module  जिससे  generates the resulting web page :  पीएचपी  commands can be  अंतःस्थापित   सीधे  into  an   एचटीएमएल   सोर्स  document  बल्कि  than calling an external  संचिका  to process  आंकड़ा  .
it  has also  विकसित  to  शामिल  a  command-line  interface capability  और  can be  प्रयुक्त   in   स्टैंडअलोन   आलेखीय   अनुप्रयोग  .
PHP is free  तन्त्र  released under the  पीएचपी   अनुज्ञा  ,  जिससे   is  incompatible  साथ   the  GNU General Public License ( GPL ) due to restrictions on  the  usage of the term  पीएचपी  .
PHP  can  be  तैनात  on  सबसे  web  सर्वर  and also as a  स्टैंडअलोन   शेल   on   लगभग  every operating system  और  platform  ,   फ़्री  of charge .
जॉन   fitzgerald  `` Jack '' Kennedy (  may  29  ,   1917  –  नवम्बर   22  ,  1963  )  ,  often  referred  to by his  आद्याक्षर   jfk   ,  was the  35th  President of  the  United States  ,   सेवारत  from 1961  जबतक  his death in 1963 .
After  सैन्य  service as  कमांडर   of   the  Motor Torpedo Boats PT-109  और  PT-59  दौरान  World War  ii  in  the   दक्षिण   प्रशांत  , Kennedy represented  मैसाचुसेट्स  ' 11th congressional district in  the   u.S.   हाउस   of   प्रतिनिधि   इससे  1947  to  1953  as   a   डेमोक्रेट   .
thereafter  , he  परोसा   in  the  u.S.   सीनेट  from  1953  until 1960  .
Kennedy defeated  वाइस  President  और   रिपब्लिकन   प्रत्याशी  Richard Nixon  in  the 1960 U.S. presidential election .
At 43 years of age  ,   he  is the youngest to have  महरूम  elected to  the   दफ्तर  , the second-youngest  अध्यक्ष   (  after  थियोडोर  Roosevelt ) , and the first  व्यक्ति  born in  the  20th  सदी  to serve as  अध्यक्ष   .
A Catholic  ,  Kennedy  is  the only non-  प्रोटोस्टेंट   अध्यक्ष   ,  and  is  the only president to have  जीती   a  Pulitzer  पुरस्कार  .
कार्यक्रम   दौरान   उसके  presidency  शामिल   the  Bay of Pigs Invasion  ,  the  क्यूबन  Missile Crisis , the building of  the  Berlin  वॉल  ,  the   स्पेस   रेस  , the  african-american  Civil Rights  गति   ,   और  early  चरण  of the Vietnam War  .
therein  ,  कैनेडी  increased  the  number  of  military advisers , special  आपरेशन  forces  ,  and helicopters in an  प्रयत्न  to curb the spread  of   साम्यवादी   in   दक्षिण  East Asia .
The Kennedy  प्रशासन   अपनाया  the policy of the  रणनीतिक   हैमलेट  Program which was  implemented   by   the   दक्षिण  Vietnamese  सरकारी  .
It  शामिल   निश्चित   मजबूर  relocation ,  गाँव  internment  ,  and  पृथक्करण  of rural  दक्षिण   वियतनामी  from  the   उत्तरी  and southern communist insurgents .
कैनेडी  was assassinated on November 22  ,   1963   in   डलास  , Texas  .
ली  Harvey Oswald  थी  charged  साथ  the crime ,  लकिन  he was shot  और  killed by Jack  माणिक्य  two days  बाद   ,   पहले  a  विचारण   could  take  प्लेस   .
The FBI and  the   वारेन  Commission  officially  concluded that  ओसवाल्ड  was the  लोन  assassin  .
However  ,  the United States  हाउस   चुनें   कमेटी  on Assassinations  (  HSCA  )   concluded   कि   those   investigations  were flawed and  कि  Kennedy  थी   संभवतः  assassinated  as  the result of  a   षड्यंत्र  .
However ,  एबीसी  News in  उनके  investigation ,  the   कैनेडी   हत्या   :  Beyond  षड्यंत्र   ,   पुष्टि  the findings of  the  Warren  आयोग  ; having concluded  ओसवाल्ड  acted  अलोन  .
कैनेडी   's  controversial Department  of  Defense TFX fighter  bomber   कार्यक्रम  led  to  a  congressional   छानबीन  that lasted  इससे  1963  to  1970 .
Since  the   1960s  information  concerning   कैनेडी  's  निजी   जीवन   रै  come  to  light .
विवरण  of Kennedy 's health problems in which  he  struggled have become better  ज्ञात  , especially  चूंकि  the 1990s .
हालांकि   initially  kept secret  इससे  the general  पब्लिक   ,   रिपोर्ट्स  of Kennedy  's  philandering  have   garnered  much  दबायें  .
Kennedy  बाँधने  highly  in  public opinion ratings of  u.S.   राष्ट्रपतियों  .
``  स्टैंड  by  me  ''  is   a   सोंग  originally  performed   by  Ben E.  किंग  and written by King ,  जेरी  Leiber , and Mike Stoller  ,  inspired by  the   आध्यात्मिक   ``  Lord Stand  by  Me  ,  '' plus  दो   लाइनों  rooted  in  Psalms  46:2–3  .
There have  महरूम  over  400   अंकित   संस्करण   of  the song  .
a   राजनैतिक   कार्टून  from an 1894 Puck magazine by illustrator  s.d  .  ehrhart  , shows  a  farm woman  labeled   ``  Democratic  पार्टी   ''  sheltering  इससे  a tornado  of  political  बदलें  .
a   रूपक   is  a  फिगर   of   वाक  that  describes   a   विषय  by asserting  कि   it   is  , on some point of  तुलना  , the  वही  as  another   वरना  unrelated object .
रूपक  is  a  type of analogy and is closely  सम्बन्धित   to   अन्य  rhetorical  आंकड़े   of   वाक   कि   achieve   उनके   प्रभाव   via   संघ   ,   तुलना   or   प्रतिरूप  including allegory ,  अतिशयोक्ति  ,  और  simile .
in   simpler   शर्तें   ,   a  metaphor compares two objects or things without using the  शब्द   ``  like '' or  ``  as  ''   .
एक  of the most  prominent  examples  of  a  रूपक  in  अंग्रेज़ी  literature is the All the world 's a  स्टेज  monologue from As  तुम  Like It :
All the world  's  a stage,
And all the men  और   महिलाओं  merely  खिलाड़ी   ;
They have  उनके   exits   और   उनके   entrances  ;  —   विलियम  Shakespeare , As You  जैसे   it   ,  2/7
This  उद्धरण   is  a  रूपक  because  the   संसार   is   नहीं  literally a  स्टेज  .
by   figuratively  asserting that  the   संसार  is  a  stage  ,  Shakespeare uses  the   अंक  of  तुलना  between the world and a stage to convey an  समझना  about  the  mechanics  of  the  संसार   और  the lives of the  लोगों  within it  .
Mount Fuji  ,  from  the   thirty-six   दृश्य   of   माउंट  Fuji ,  रंग  woodcut  by   katsushika  Hokusai
rembrandt   वैन   rijn  , Self-portrait , etching , c.1630
Francisco Goya  ,  There  is   no  One  to   सहायता   उन्हें  , Disasters of War  श्रेणी   ,  aquatint c.1810
Felix  vallotton  ,  la  raison probante  (   the  Cogent Reason )  ,   woodcut   इससे  the series Intimités ,  1898
Printmaking is  the  process of  बनाना   artworks  by  मुद्रण  ,  सामान्यतः  on paper .
Printmaking  सामान्यतः  covers only  the  process of creating prints with an  तत्व  of originality  ,  rather than just being a  फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक  reproduction of  a  painting .
मगर   in   the   मामला  of monotyping ,  the   प्रक्रम  is capable  of  producing multiples  of   the   वही  piece , which is  पुकारा  a print .
Each print produced is not considered a  ``  copy '' but  बल्कि   is  considered an  ``  original  ''  .
This  is   क्युकी  typically  प्रत्येक   छपाई   varies   to  an extent due to variables  मूलभूत  to the  printmaking  process , and also because the  imagery   of   a  print is typically  नहीं   बस  a  जनन   of  another work but rather is often  a  unique  चित्र  designed from  the  start to be expressed  in  a  particular  printmaking  तकनीक   .
a   छपाई   may  be known as  an  impression .
printmaking  (  अन्य   than   monotyping  ) is not chosen only for its ability  to   उपज  multiple impressions  ,   लकिन   बल्कि  for  the   अद्वितीय  qualities  कि   प्रत्येक  of  the  printmaking  प्रक्रियाओं  lends  itself   to  .
prints  are created  by  transferring  स्याही  from a  मेट्रिक्स   or   through   a  prepared screen to  a  sheet of paper or other  सामग्री  .
Common  प्रकार  of  matrices   शामिल  :  मेटल  plates  ,   प्रायः  copper or zinc , or  पॉलिमर  plates for engraving  or  etching  ;  stone ,  एल्यूमिनियम  , or polymer  लिये   lithography  ;  ब्लॉक  of wood for woodcuts and  लकडी  engravings  ;   और  linoleum  लिये  linocuts .
Screens  बना  of  रेशा   or  synthetic fabrics are  प्रयुक्त  for  the   screenprinting  process  .
Other types  of  matrix substrates and related processes are discussed below .
Multiple  impressions  printed from the same  मेट्रिक्स  form an edition .
चूंकि   the  late 19th  सदी  ,  कलाकारों  have generally signed individual  impressions   इससे  an edition and often  क्रमांक  the impressions to form a  सीमित   संस्करण  .
prints   may   भी  be  मुद्रित   in  book form  ,  such as illustrated books  or   कलाकार   's  books .
il   divo   is  an  अंग्रेज़ी   बहुराष्ट्रीय   operatic   पॉप  vocal  समूह  created by music  मैनेजर  ,  कार्यपालिका   ,  and reality TV star  साइमन   cowell  .
Formed  in   the  United Kingdom ,  वे   हैं   भी   हस्ताक्षरित   to   cowell  's record label  ,  Syco  म्यूज़िक   .
Il  divo   is  a group of four  पुरूष   गायकों  : French  पॉप   सिंगर  Sébastien Izambard , Spanish  baritone  Carlos Marín ,  अमरीकी  tenor  दाउद   मिलर   ,  and Swiss  टेनर   उर्स   bühler  .
to   तिथि   ,   वे  have sold more  than   26   लाख  albums worldwide .
Su-15  ,  one of  the   प्रिंसिपल   सोवियत   एयर   रक्षा   interceptors   in  the 1970s and 1980s
An  interceptor   वायुयान  (  or   बस  interceptor )  is   a   प्रकार  of fighter  वायुयान  designed  specifically  to  prevent   मिशन   of  enemy aircraft ,  विशेषकर  bombers and  reconnaissance  aircraft ,  और  destroy them ,  relying  usually on great speed and  शक्तिशाली  armament .
होने  used  चूंकि  the First World  युद्ध   ,  after  the  late 1960s , interceptors became less  महत्वपूर्ण   due   to  shifting from bombers  to  intercontinental  बैलिस्टिक  missiles (  icbms  ) for  नाभिकीय  warfare .
a   वियतनामी  American ( ) is  an  American of Vietnamese  descent  .
They  मेक  up about  हाफ  of all  विदेशी  Vietnamese ( Người Việt Hải  ngoại  ) and  हैं  the fourth-largest  एशियाई  American group .
द्रव्यमान  Vietnamese  आव्रजन  to the United States started  बाद  1975 ,  बाद  the  समाप्त  of the Vietnam  युद्ध  .
Early  आप्रवासियों  were refugee boat people  fleeing  persecution or poverty  .
Forced  to  flee from their  मातृभूमि  and often  thrust  into poor  शहरी   पड़ोस   ,   ये  newcomers have  nevertheless  managed to establish strong communities in  a  short amount of  समय   .
More than  साठ   प्रतिशत  of Vietnamese  अमेरिकी  reside in the states of California , Texas  ,  Washington ,  फ्लोरिडा   ,  and Virginia  .
सामने  page of  the   u.S.   हथियारबंद  Forces newspaper , Stars and Stripes  ,  2 May 1945
Adolf Hitler  वचनबद्ध  suicide by gunshot on  30   अप्रैल   1945   in  his Führerbunker in Berlin .
उसके   बीवी   एवा   (  née  braun  ) committed  आत्महत्या  with  उसे  by ingesting  साइनाइड  .
That afternoon , in accordance  साथ  Hitler  's  prior instructions ,  उनके  remains were carried up  the   सीढ़ियाँ   through  the bunker 's  आपात  exit  ,   doused  in petrol  और   नियत   alight  in the  reich   chancellery   गार्डन   बाहर  the  बंकर   .
The Soviet archives record that their burnt  remains  were  बरामद  and interred  in   successive   स्थितियाँ  until 1970 when  वे   यहूद   again   exhumed  , cremated  और  the ashes  बिखरे  .
Accounts differ  as   to  the cause of death ; one that  he  died by  ज़हर  only  और  another  कि  he died  by  a  self-inflicted   gunshot  , while  biting  down on  a   साइनाइड   कैप्सूल  .
Contemporary  इतिहासकारों   have   अस्वीकृत   ये  accounts  as   होने  either Soviet propaganda or  an   attempted  compromise  in  order  to  reconcile  the   अलग  conclusions  .
एक  eye-witness  अंकित  that the body  दिखाया   लक्षण  of  having   महरूम   शॉट  through the mouth ,  लकिन   इस  has  महरूम   सिद्ध   असंभावित  .
There is also controversy  regarding  the authenticity of skull  और  jaw  fragments  which were  बरामद  .
In  2009   ,   डीएनए  tests were performed on a  कपाल  Soviet officials  था   long  believed to be  हिटलर  's .
The tests revealed  कि  the  कपाल  was actually  कि   of  a woman  कम  than  40   सालो  old  .
स्थान  of  मिसौरी
The  दारू  laws of  मिसौरी   हैं  among  the  least  प्रतिबंधक  and most  lax  and  permissive  in  the  United  राज्य  .
Missouri is known throughout the Midwest for  इसके   largely   laissez-faire  approach to  दारू   विनियमन   ,   in  sharp contrast  to   the   बहुत  strict  दारू   कानून  of  कुछ  of its neighbors ,  जैसे  Kansas and  ओक्लाहोमा  .
Necrotizing fasciitis (  or   )  or NF , commonly known as  flesh-eating  disease  or  flesh-eating  जीवाणु  syndrome ,  is   a  rare infection of  the  deeper layers of skin  और  subcutaneous tissues ,  easily  spreading across the fascial plane within  the  subcutaneous tissue .
Necrotizing fasciitis  is   जल्दी   progressing  , having  वृहद  risk of  विकासशील   in  the immunocompromised due to  शर्तें   जैसे  diabetes  ,  cancer  ,  etc  .
It  is  a  कठोर   बीमारी   of  sudden onset and is usually treated immediately with high doses of  intravenous   एंटीबायोटिक   .
Type I  describes  a  polymicrobial   संक्रमण   ,   whereas   प्रकार  II  describes   a  monomicrobial  संक्रमण   .
Many  प्रकार   of  bacteria  can  cause necrotizing  fasciitis  (  e.g.  ,  समूह  A streptococcus  (  Streptococcus pyogenes  )  , Staphylococcus  aureus  , Clostridium perfringens , Bacteroides  fragilis  , Aeromonas hydrophila  )  .
Such infections  हैं  more  संभावित   to  occur in people with compromised  प्रतिरक्षा  systems .
historically  ,  समूह   a   streptococcus  made  up   सबसे  cases of  प्रकार   ii  infections .
However ,  चूंकि   as   जल्दी  as 2001  ,   another  serious  रूप   of   monomicrobial  necrotizing  fasciitis   रै   महरूम  observed with increasing frequency , caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus  aureus   (   मरसा  )  .
Some published  मामला  reports have  implied   a   संभावित  link  between  use of  non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory drugs and  nf  ,  हालांकि   the   प्रमाण   of  the  कड़ी  was  कहा   to  be  कमजोर  because of a  छोटी   क्रमांक   of  case patients  और  it  थी  unclear  whether  the drugs just  नकाबपोश  the  लक्षण   of  a secondary  संक्रमण  or  यहूद  a  कारण   प्रति  se .
World War II  (   wwii  or WW2  )  ,  भी   ज्ञात  as the Second  संसार   युद्ध  , was a  वैश्विक   युद्ध  that  lasted  from 1939  to  1945  .
It  शामिल   the  vast majority  of  the world 's nations  —including   सब   of   the   ग्रेट  powers —eventually  forming  two opposing  सैन्य   alliances  : the  allies  and  the   अक्ष   .
It  थी   the  most  फैली   युद्ध   in  history  ,   साथ  more  than   100  million people  सेवारत   in   सैन्य   इकाई   इससे   over   30   अलग  countries .
in  a state  of  `` total  युद्ध   ``  , the major participants placed  उनके  entire economic , industrial ,  और  scientific capabilities at the service of  the   युद्ध   प्रयत्न   ,  erasing the distinction between civilian and  सैन्य  resources  .
चिह्नित   by   द्रव्यमान   मौतों  of civilians ,  सहित   the  Holocaust  और  the  तभी   उपयोग  of nuclear  हथियार   in  warfare , it  resulted  in 50 million  to  over  75  million  fatalities   .
ये   मौतों   मेक  World War  ii   by  far  the  deadliest  विरोध  in human history .
The  साम्राज्य   of   जापानी   aimed   to  dominate  ईस्ट  Asia and  थी  already  at  war  साथ   the  Republic of China in  1937  , but  the   संसार   युद्ध  is generally said  to   have  begun on  1   सितंबर  1939  साथ  the invasion  of  Poland by Germany  और  subsequent  घोषणाओं  of war on  जर्मनी   by  France  और   ब्रिटेन   .
From late  1939  to  जल्दी  1941 , in  a  series of campaigns and treaties , Germany  formed  the Axis alliance  साथ   इटली  , conquering or subduing much  of  continental Europe .
following   the   molotov–ribbentrop  Pact ,  जर्मनी   और   the   सोवियत   संघ   partitioned   और  annexed  territories  between  themselves   of   उनके   यूरोपीय  neighbours ,  सहित   कैंडल   .
the   संयुक्त   किंगडम  and the other  सदस्यों  of  the  British Commonwealth  यहूद  the only major Allied forces continuing the fight  विरूद्ध  the  अक्ष  ,  साथ   लड़ाइयों  taking place  in   उत्तर   अफ़्रीकी  as well  as   the   long-running  Battle of the Atlantic  .
in   जून   1941  ,  the  European Axis  शुभारम्भ   an   आक्रमण  of the Soviet  संघ  ,  giving  a  प्रारंभ  to the  largest  land theatre of  युद्ध  in history , which tied down the major part of  the  Axis  '  military forces for  the  rest  of   the   युद्ध   .
In December 1941 ,  जापानी   joined  the  अक्ष  ,  attacked  the United States and European territories in  the  Pacific Ocean  ,  and  जल्दी   conquered   much   of  the Western  प्रशांत   .
the  Axis advance  थी  stopped  in  1942 ,  बाद   जापानी  lost a  श्रेणी  of naval  लड़ाइयों  and  यूरोपीय   अक्ष   सैनिकों   यहूद  defeated  in  North Africa and , decisively , at  stalingrad   .
in  1943  ,  with  a  series of German  defeats   in  Eastern Europe  ,   the  Allied invasion  of  Italy  ,   और   अमरीकी   victories   in  the Pacific  ,  the Axis  खोया  the  पहल   और   undertook   रणनीतिक   रिट्रीट   on   सब  fronts .
in  1944 ,  the  Western Allies invaded France , while the Soviet Union regained all of  इसके   territorial   नुकसान  and  invaded  Germany  और  its  allies  .
During 1944  और  1945 the  संयुक्त   राज्य  defeated the Japanese Navy  और   captured  key Western  प्रशांत   आइलैंड्स  .
the  war in Europe ended with the  कैप्चर  of  बर्लिन  by  सोवियत  and Polish troops  और  the  subsequent  German  unconditional   आत्मसमर्पण  on 8  may  1945 .
following  the  पॉट्सडैम  Declaration  by  the  allies  on 26 July 1945  ,   the  United  राज्य  dropped atomic bombs  on   the  Japanese cities  of  Hiroshima on 6 August ,  और   नागासाकी  on 9 August .
साथ  an  आक्रमण  of the  जापानी  archipelago  निकट  ,  और   the   सोवियत   संघ  having declared war on Japan by  आक्रमणकारी  Manchuria  ,  Japan  surrendered   on  15  अगस्त  1945 , ending the  युद्ध   in   एशिया  and cementing  the  total victory  of   the   allies   over  the Axis .
संसार  War  ii   altered   the   राजनैतिक  alignment and  सोशल   ढांचा   of  the  संसार   .
The United Nations  (  UN ) was established to foster international cooperation and prevent  भविष्य   विरोध   .
The  ग्रेट  powers  कि   यहूद   the  victors of  the  war—the United States ,  the  Soviet Union  ,   चीन  , the  संयुक्त  Kingdom ,  और   france—became  the  स्थाई  members of  the  United  राष्ट्र   सुरक्षा  Council .
The Soviet  संघ  and  the  United States emerged as  प्रतिद्वंद्वी   superpowers  ,  सेटिंग   the  stage  लिये  the  ठंडा  War  ,  which lasted for the  अगला   46   सालो   .
Meanwhile  ,  the influence of  यूरोपीय  great  शक्तियां   प्रारंभ   to  decline  ,   जबकि   the   decolonisation  of Asia  और  Africa began  .
Most countries  जिनकी  industries had been  क्षतिग्रस्त  moved  towards  economic recovery  .
राजनैतिक   संयोजन  ,  विशेषकर  in  यूरोपीय   ,  emerged  as  an effort  to  stabilise postwar relations and  लड़ो  more  effectively   in   the  Cold  युद्ध  .
a  limited liability  कम्पनी  ( LLC )  is  a flexible  रूप  of enterprise that blends  तत्व  of  साझेदारी   और   कॉरपोरेट  structures .
नोट  than an  llc   is  not  a   निगम  , and  कॉलिंग   an  LLC a  निगम   is  technically  गलत  .
An LLC is  a   विधिक  form of company that  provides   सीमित   देयता  to  इसके  owners  in  the vast  बहुमत   of  United States  jurisdictions   .
LLCs do  नहीं  need  to  be organized  लिये  profit .
पाँच   k-cups
The inside of  a   प्रयुक्त   k-cup   ,  with the top foil  और   the   प्रयुक्त   कॉफी  grounds removed .
This shows the filter inside the K-Cup .
k-cup  portion  पैक  are used  साथ  Keurig  or  other  सिंगल  cup brewing systems to brew  a   कप  of coffee  ,  tea  ,  or  hot  chocolate .
प्रत्येक   k-cup  is a plastic container with  a   कॉफी  filter inside  .
Ground  कॉफी   सेम   हैं  packed in the K-Cup and  sealed   air-tight   साथ   a  combination plastic and foil lid .
जब  the K-Cup is placed in a  keurig  brewer , the brewer  punctures  the  foil   ढक्कन   और  the bottom of  the   k-cup  and  शक्तियां   hot  water under pressure  through   the  K-Cup  और   into   a  mug .
keurig   पंक्तियां  its  k-cup   प्रौद्योगिकी   to   कॉफी  roasters and  चाय  makers  ऐसे  as Green Mountain Coffee Roasters  ,   diedrich/   ग्लोरिया  Jeans  ,   टिमोथी   's  World  कॉफी  ,  वैन   houtte   ,   हिरण  Coffee  ,   celestial  Seasonings  ,   bigelow  Tea Company ,  twinings   ,   टली  's , Coffee  लोगों   और  Newman 's Own .
keurig   's  patents on  the  original K-Cup  डिज़ाइन   समाप्त  in  सितंबर   2012  .
Keurig holds  at  least  एक  additional , still-active US  पेटेंट  and another patent  अनुप्रयोग  ,  detailing   सुधार   कि   have   subsequently  been incorporated in  उनके   k-cup  design .
electa  Pocket  chronograph   (  ca . 1890s ) manufactured  by  the Gallet Watch  कम्पनी  in La  chaux-de-fonds   ,  Switzerland .
Gallet MultiChron  astronomic   (  ca .  1959  ) —complex mechanical  chronograph  with  12  hour  recoding  capabilities , automatic day , date  ,   माह  ,  और  moon  phase   प्रदर्शक
A  आधुनिक   seiko   क्वार्ट्ज  wristwatch  using  the  chronograph   फलन   (   गति   7t92  ) .
Citizen Atessa Eco-Drive  atv53-3023  analog-digital chronograph  साथ  4  क्षेत्रफल   रेडियो  Controlled  रिसेप्शन   (   उत्तर   अमेरिका  ,  यूरोपीय  , China , Japan  )   .
a   chronograph   is  a  विशिष्ट   प्रकार   of  watch  कि   is  used  as   a  stopwatch combined with  a  display  देखें   .
A  मौलिक  chronograph  रै  an independent sweep second hand ;  it  can be started  ,  stopped  ,  and returned  to   शून्य  by successive pressure  on  the  स्टेम  .
Louis Moinet invented the chronograph in  1816
Conventional PCI  (  PCI is an  initialism  formed from  परिधीय   घटक  Interconnect  ,  part  of  the PCI Local Bus standard  और  often shortened to just  पीसीआई  ) is  a  local computer bus for  attaching   हार्डवेयर  devices in  a  computer .
the  PCI bus  supports  the  कृत्यों  found on  a   प्रोसेसर  bus  ,  but in a standardized format  कि   is  independent  of  any particular processor .
Devices connected to the  बस  appear to the processor to be connected directly to the processor  बस   ,   और  are  आबंटित  addresses in the processor  's  address space .
संलग्न  devices can take either  the   रूप  of  an  integrated  सर्किट   fitted   onto  the motherboard itself , called a  planar   यंत्र  in  the  PCI  specification  ,  or  an  विस्तार  card that fits into  a   स्लॉट  .
The  पीसीआई  Local Bus  थी   पहला   implemented  in  ibm  PC  compatibles  , where  it  displaced the combination  of  ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as  the  bus configuration  .
it  has  subsequently   महरूम   अपनाया  for  अन्य  computer types  .
PCI  और   pci-x  are being replaced by  पीसीआई  Express , but  ,  most motherboards are  स्टिल  made with  एक  or more  पीसीआई  slots ,  जिससे   हैं  sufficient  लिये   अनेक  uses .
The  पीसीआई  specification  कवर   the  physical  आकार  of the bus ( including the size and spacing of  the  circuit  फलक   किनारे  electrical contacts ) ,  विद्युत  characteristics , bus timing , and protocols .
the  specification  can   be  purchased  इससे  the PCI Special  ब्याज   समूह   (  PCI-SIG ) .
ठेठ  PCI cards used in PCs  शामिल  :  संजाल   ताश  , sound  ताश  ,  modems  , extra  पोर्ट   ऐसे  as USB or  सीरियल  , TV tuner cards  और  disk  परिरक्षक  .
PCI video cards  replaced  ISA and VESA cards ,  जबतक   growing   बैंडविड्थ  requirements outgrew  the  capabilities of  पीसीआई   ;  the preferred interface for  वीडियो  cards became  अगप  , and  तब  PCI Express  .
PCI video  ताश  remain available  लिये   उपयोग   साथ   बूढ़ा   pcs   बगैर   अगप   or   पीसीआई  Express  स्लॉट   .
Many  डिवाइस   previously   provided   on  PCI expansion cards  हैं  now commonly integrated  onto   motherboards  or  उपलब्धियाँ   in  universal  सीरियल  bus and PCI  एक्स्प्रेस   संस्करण  .
Michael  whitaker  Smith ( born  अक्तूबर   7  , 1957  )   is   an  American contemporary  ईसाई  musician  ,  who  रै  charted primarily in  the   समकालीन   ईसाई   और   occasionally   in  the  मुख्यधारा  charts .
His biggest  कामयाबी   in  mainstream  म्यूज़िक  was in 1991 when ``  प्लेस   in  this  संसार   ''   hit  No  .  6  on  the  बिलबोर्ड   hot   100  .
स्मिथ   is  a three-time  ग्रैमी   पुरस्कार   विजेता  , and has earned 40 Dove Awards  .
Over  the  course  of   उसके  career , he  बेची  more than 13 million albums and  अंकित  29  no   .   1  Hit songs ,  चौदह   सुनहरा   एल्बम   ,   और  five platinum  एल्बम   .
स्मिथ   is  an  अमरीकी  Music Award  प्राप्तकर्ता   ;  he was  भी   नामित   एक  of  लोगों  magazine  's   ``   सबसे  Beautiful  लोगों   ''  .
An American  पोस्टर  from the  संसार  War II  -era  that was used  to  inform  लोगों  about what  वे  should do  if   वे   suspect  sabotage  .
Sabotage is a deliberate  कार्रवाई   aimed  at weakening another  एंटिटी  through  subversion  , obstruction ,  disruption  , or destruction .
In a  कार्यस्थल  setting , sabotage  is   the  conscious withdrawal  of   दक्षता  generally directed at  causing   कुछ  change in workplace  शर्तें  .
One who engages in  तोड़फोड़  is a saboteur .
As  a   नियम  , saboteurs try  to  conceal  उनके   पहचान   क्युकी   of   the  consequences of their actions .
लिये  example  ,   whereas  an  पर्यावरणीय  pressure  समूह   might   be  happy  to  be  पहचाना   साथ  an act of sabotage  ,  it would  नहीं   want   the   व्यक्तिगत   पहचान   of  the perpetrators known .
Patrick  हेनरी  College ( PHC ) is  a  private , independent  कॉलेज   साथ  an  धर्मान्तरण   ईसाई   आधार  that focuses on teaching  शास्त्रीय  liberal  कला  and government , located  in   purcellville  , Virginia , United States  .
Patrick  हेनरी  is known for  इसके  conservative  धर्मान्तरण  Christian  फ़ोकस   .
as  of April  17  , 2007 , the  कॉलेज   थी   accredited  by the  transnational   संघ   of  Christian  कॉलेजों  and  स्कूलों  , a  नेशनल  faith-related accrediting organization  पहचाना  by the Department of Education and  the  Council for Higher  शिक्षा  Accreditation  .
The school  थी   संस्थापित   साथ   the  help of the  घर  School Legal Defense Association , and now  serves   as  the headquarters for the organization  ,   साथ   जिससे   it   is  still closely connected .
The  इतिहास  of television comprises  the   कार्य   of   numerous   इंजीनियर्स  and inventors in  अनेक   देशों   over  many decades .
the   earliest  proposal  थी  in 1908 ,  in   a  paper by A  .   A.   campbell-swinton  and postulated  the   उपयोग  of cathode rays .
The first  व्यावहारिक  demonstrations of television ,  however  , were developed  using  electromechanical methods to  स्कैन  , transmit , and reproduce an image  .
as  electronic  कैमरा   और   प्रदर्शक   tubes  were perfected , electromechanical television  दिया  way to  all-electronic   प्रणालियों  in  nearly  all  अनुप्रयोग  .
l'idéal  Cinéma - Jacques  tati   at  Aniche  खोली  November 23rd 1905 ; the  oldest  still-active  फिल्म  theater in the world
A  सिनेमा   in  Australia
A typical  मल्टीप्लेक्स  ( AMC  सैर  16 in  वुडलैंड  Hills  ,  Los  एंजिल्स   ,  U.S.  )
a   फिल्म   थिएटर  ( also called a cinema ,  फिल्म  house ,  फिल्मी  house , film theater  or  picture house ) is a venue , usually  a  building , for viewing  films  .
Most but not  सब   फिल्म  theaters  हैं  commercial operations catering to  the   सामान्य  public , who attend by purchasing  a  ticket .
The movie is  प्रक्षिप्त  with  a   फिल्म  projector onto  a  large projection screen  at   the  front  of   the  auditorium .
Most movie theaters are now equipped for digital  सिनेमा   प्रक्षेप  , removing the need  to   बनाएँ  and  हस्तांतरण   a  physical  फिल्मी  print  .
दक्षिणी  California Norton  मालिक  's  क्लबों   on  California State  रूट  41 , near Creston .
A motorcycle  क्लबों   is   a   समूह  of  individuals   जिनकी   प्राथमिक   ब्याज  and activities involve motorcycles  .
lyme   बीमारी   ,  Lyme borreliosis  is  an infectious  बीमारी  caused by  at  least three species  of   जीवाणु   belonging  to the  genus  Borrelia .
borrelia  burgdorferi  sensu  stricto is the  प्रमुख   कारण   of   lyme  disease in  उत्तर  America , whereas Borrelia afzelii and Borrelia  garinii   कारण   सबसे  European  मामले   .
the   बीमारी   is   नामित   बाद   the  towns of Lyme and  बूढ़ा  Lyme , Connecticut , USA  ,   जहाँ  a number of cases  यहूद   पहचाना   in   1975   .
हालांकि  Allen  steere  realized that Lyme  बीमारी   थी  a  tick-borne  disease in  1978  , the cause  of   the   बीमारी  remained a  रहस्य   जबतक   1981   ,  when  B.  burgdorferi was identified  by  Willy  burgdorfer   .
Lyme disease is  the  most  आम   tick-borne   बीमारी  in  the  Northern  गोलार्ध   .
borrelia  is  transmitted  to humans  by  the bite  of  infected ticks belonging to a  few  species  of  the genus  ixodes   (  ``  मुश्किल   ticks  ''  )  .
जल्दी  symptoms  may  include  ज्वर  , headache  ,  fatigue , depression  ,  and a characteristic circular  स्किन   खाज   पुकारा  erythema migrans (  em   )   .
Left  अनुपचारित  , later symptoms may  involve   the  joints , heart ,  और  central  बेचैन   प्रणाली  .
in  most cases , the infection and  इसके   लक्षण  are eliminated  by   एंटीबायोटिक   ,  especially  if   the  illness is treated  जल्दी  .
Delayed or  अपर्याप्त  treatment can lead  to  more  गंभीर  symptoms  ,   जिससे   can   be  disabling and  मुश्किल  to treat  .
Penises of minke whales  on  display at the Icelandic Phallological Museum
Penis  (   बहुवचन  penises or penes ) is a  सामान्य   पद  for the organs with which male  और   उभयलिंगी   पशु   introduce  sperm  into  receptive females  दौरान  copulation .
ऐसे  organs occur in  अनेक   पशु   ,  both vertebrate  और  invertebrate , but  males  do not bear a  शिश्न  in  प्रत्येक  animal species , and  in  those  प्रजाति  in  जिससे  the  पुरूष   करता  bear a  so-called  penis  ,  the penes in the  विभिन्न   प्रजाति   हैं  not necessarily homologous .
लिये   उदाहरण  , the  शिश्न   of  a mammal  is   at  most  analogous   to  the  शिश्न  of a male insect  or  barnacle  .
The term penis applies  to  many reproductive intromittent  अंगों  , but  नहीं  to  सब  ;  लिये   उदाहरण   the  intromittent organ  of  most  cephalopoda   is   the  hectocotylus , a specialised  भुजा  , and male spiders use  उनके   pedipalps   .
in   सबसे  species of animals in  जिससे   वहीँ  is  an   अंग  that  might  reasonably be described as  a  penis ,  it  has no major function other than  intromission  , or at least conveying  the  sperm to the female , but in  the  placental  स्तनधारियों  the penis  bears  the distal part of  the   urethra  ,  जिससे  discharges both urine  दौरान   urination  and semen during copulation as  the  occasion requires .
कलाकारों  and  रंगमंडल   (   a  &  r   )  is the  प्रभाग  of a  रिकार्ड   लेबल   or  music publishing company  कि   is   जिम्मेदार  for talent  बालचर  and  overseeing  the artistic development  of   रिकॉर्डिंग  artists and/or songwriters .
It  भी   अधिनियमों  as  a   liaison  between artists and  the  record  लेबल  or  प्रकाशन  company ; every activity  involving  artists to the point of album  रिलीज   is  generally  माना  under  the  purview of , and  जिम्मेदारी  of , A & R  .
a   furlong   is  a measure  of   अलहदा   in  imperial units  और   u.S.   प्रथागत  units  बराबर   to  one-eighth  of  a  मील  , equivalent to 220  गज  ,  660  feet  ,  40 rods , or 10 chains .
The  सटीक   मान   of  the furlong varies slightly  among  English-speaking countries .
पाँच  furlongs  हैं  approximately  1   किलोमीटर  (  1.0058  km is a  करीब  approximation )  .
Since the original  परिभाषा  of  the  metre was one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the  परिधि   of   the   धरती  (  साथ   the  great  वृत्त   coincident   साथ   the  meridian  of   देशांतर   गुजर   through  Paris ) ,  the   परिधि  of the Earth is about  40,000  km  or  about 200,000  furlongs   .
CR2032 lithium button cell battery
Lithium 9 volt , AA  ,  & AAA sizes
Lithium  बैटरी  are  डिस्पोजेबल  (  प्राथमिक  )  बैटरी  that have lithium metal or lithium compounds as an  धनाग्र   .
They stand apart  इससे  other batteries  in   उनके  high charge density ( long life  )   और  high cost per  ईकाई  .
depending  on the  डिज़ाइन  and chemical compounds used , lithium  कोशिकाएं  can produce  voltages  from 1.5  v  ( comparable  to  a  zinc–carbon   or  alkaline battery )  to  about 3.7 V. Lithium  बैटरी  are  widely  used in products such  as  portable consumer electronic  डिवाइस  .
Raymond `` Ray ''  चार्ल्स  Jack  lamontagne  ( ; born  जून   18  , 1973 ) is an American singer-songwriter  .
lamontagne   रै   released  four studio albums , Trouble , Till the  सूर्य  Turns  ब्लैक  , Gossip in the  अनाज   और   परमेश्वर   willin  '  &  the  क्रीक   do  n't  वृद्धि  .
He was born  in   नई  Hampshire and was inspired to create music after hearing an  एल्बम  by Stephen Stills .
Critics  have   compared   lamontagne  's  म्यूज़िक  to that  of   the  Band , Van  मॉरिसन  ,  उपनाम  Drake ,  और  Tim Buckley  .
He  जीवनदान  in  मैसाचुसेट्स  with his wife and  दो  children  .
जब  the  हवा  Blows  is  a novel  by  James  पैटरसन   .
it  is the precursor to The  झील  House  और   प्रेरित  the Maximum Ride series .
The  अनोखा  is  फिलहाल  set to be adapted  into  a  फिल्म  .
The  पिट्सबर्ग   स्टीलर्स  were founded  in  1933 .
Over the course  of  the  टोली   's   इतिहास  , the  टोली   रै  had  अनेक   लोगो   जबकि  wearing virtually the same uniforms  over  the years , with subtle changes made to give the  वर्दी   an  updated look .
the  team  रंगों  ,  वर्दी   ,   और  logo are often ranked  as  being among  the  best  in  the NFL .
Facebook on the Ad-tech  2010
Facebook  is   an  online  सोशल  networking service , whose  नाम  stems from  the   colloquial   नाम   लिये   the  book  दिए  to  विद्यार्थी  at the start  of  the academic  साल   by  some university  administrations  in the United  राज्य   to   सहायता   विद्यार्थी   मिलेंगी   to   जान  each other .
it  was  संस्थापित   in   फ़रवरी   2004  by Mark  zuckerberg  with  उसके   कॉलेज  roommates and fellow  हार्वर्ड   विश्वविद्यालयों   विद्यार्थी   एडुआर्डो   saverin  , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz  और   क्रिस   ह्यूजेस   .
The website  's   सदस्यता   थी   initially  limited by the founders  to  Harvard students , but was expanded to  अन्य   कॉलेजों  in  the  Boston  क्षेत्रफल  , the Ivy League  ,  and  स्टैनफोर्ड  University .
It  धीरे   added  support for students at  विभिन्न   अन्य   विश्वविद्यालयों  before  खोलने  to  ऊँची  school  विद्यार्थी   ,   और   आखिरकार  to  anyone   aged  13  और  over .
Facebook now allows  कोई   उपयोक्ता   जो  declare  themselves  to  be  at  तनिक   13  years old to  become  registered  उपयोक्ता  of  the  site  .
उपयोक्ता   जरूर  register  पहले  using the  साईट   ,   बाद   जिससे  they may create a  निजी   प्रोफ़ाइल  ,  add   अन्य  users as  मित्रों   ,  and exchange  संदेश   ,  including  स्वचालित   सूचनाएं  when  वे   अद्यतन   उनके   प्रोफ़ाइल   .
Additionally  ,  users may join common-interest  उपयोक्ता  groups ,  व्यवस्थित   by   कार्यस्थल   ,   स्कूल  or college , or  अन्य   विशेषताएँ   ,  and categorize  उनके   मित्रों   into  lists such as ``  लोगों  From Work ''  or   ``   बंद  Friends  ''  .
As  of  September 2012 , Facebook has over one billion active users  .
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey , there are  7.5   लाख   children  under 13  साथ   खाते   और  5  लाख   अंतर्गत  10 ,  violating   the   साईट   's  terms of  सेवा  .
In  may  2005 , Accel partners invested $ 12.7 million in  फेसबुक  , and Jim Breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the  घट  .
A January 2009  compete.com   पढ़ाई  ranked  फेसबुक  as  the   सबसे  used  सोशल   नेटवर्किंग   सेवा  by worldwide monthly  क्रियाशील   उपयोक्ता   .
Entertainment Weekly  शामिल  the site  on  its end-of-the-decade  ``   best-of  '' list , saying , `` How on earth did we stalk  हमारी  exes  ,   याद   हमारी   co-workers  ' birthdays  ,   कीड़ा  our friends , and  खेल  a rousing  खेल  of Scrabulous before Facebook  ?  ''
Critics , such  as   फेसबुक  Detox  ,  state that Facebook  रै   turned  into  a  national obsession  in  the United  राज्य  , resulting in vast amounts  of  time  खोया   और  encouraging narcissism .
Quantcast estimates  फेसबुक   रै  138.9 million monthly unique U.S. visitors in May 2011  .
According to Social Media  आज  ,  in   अप्रैल   2010  an  अनुमानित   41.6  %  (  129.5  लाख   )   of  the U.S. population  था  a  फेसबुक  account  .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's market growth started  to   स्टाल  in some regions  ,  with  the  site losing 7 million active  उपयोक्ता  in the United States  और  Canada in  may  2011 .
फेसबुक   आखिरकार  filed for an initial  पब्लिक  offering on February  1  ,  2012  , and was  headquartered  in Menlo Park  ,  California  .
Facebook  inc.  began selling stock to the public and trading on  the   नैस्डैक  on May 18 , 2012 .
Erwin  योहानेस  Eugen  ख़बरों   (  15 November  1891   –   14  October 1944  )  , popularly known  as   the   मरुस्थल   फॉक्स   (  Wüstenfuchs  ,   )   ,  was  a   जर्मनी  Field Marshal  of   संसार   युद्ध  II .
he   अर्जित   the  respect of both  उसके  own troops and  the  enemies  he   लड़ा  .
Rommel  थी   a  highly  सजा   अधिकारी  in  संसार  War I and was  awarded  the Pour  le  Mérite  लिये   उसके   कारनामे   on   the  Italian front .
In World War II  ,  he  further  distinguished  खुद  as the  कमांडर  of the 7th  panzer   प्रभाग   दौरान   the  1940 invasion of France .
His  नेतृत्व  of German and  इतालवी   शक्तियां   in   the   उत्तर  African  अभियान   स्थापित  him  as  one of the most  समर्थ  commanders of the war ,  और   अर्जित   उसे  the  appellation   of   the  Desert  फॉक्स  .
he  is regarded  as   एक  of  the   सबसे   skilled  commanders  of   मरुस्थल   warfare  in  the   विरोध   .
He later  commanded   the  German  शक्तियां  opposing the Allied cross-channel invasion in Normandy  .
उसके  assignments never  took  him  to   the   पूर्वी   सामने   .
Rommel  is  regarded as having  महरूम  a  दयालु  and  पेशेवर  officer .
उसके  Afrika  कोर्प्स   थी   never  accused of war crimes  ,  and soldiers  captured  during his  अफ़्रीकी  campaign  यहूद  reported  to  have  महरूम  treated humanely .
Orders  to  kill Jewish  सैनिको  , civilians  और  captured commandos  यहूद   उपेक्षित   .
लेट  in the war ,  ख़बरों  was linked to the conspiracy to  assassinate  Adolf  हिटलर   .
Since Rommel  थी  a national hero  ,  Hitler desired to eliminate him quietly .
He forced Rommel  to  commit  आत्महत्या   साथ  a cyanide pill  ,   in   वापसी   लिये   आश्वासनों   कि   ख़बरों   's  family would  नहीं   be  persecuted following his  मौत   .
Stained glass  प्रतिनिधित्व  of the Holy Spirit  as   a   dove  , c. 1660 .
The seven gifts of the Holy Spirit is an  enumeration   of   सात  spiritual  उपहार   originating  with patristic  लेखक  ,  बाद  elaborated  by  five intellectual virtues and four  अन्य   समूह  of  नैतिक  characteristics  .
वे  are  :   अक्ल  , understanding , wonder  और   डरते  ( fear  of  the  रब  ) ,  counsel  , knowledge ,  fortitude  , and piety (  reverence  ) .
The  धरती  Day Flag ,  the  latest proposal of John McConnell  लिये  a flag  of  Earth Day
Earth Day is an  सालाना   इवेंट  , celebrated on April 22  ,   on   जिससे  events  हैं   आयोजित  worldwide  to  demonstrate  support  for  पर्यावरणीय   सुरक्षा   .
It was  पहला   मनाये  in  1970  ,  और  is now coordinated globally  by   the   धरती  Day  संजाल   ,   और  celebrated  in  more  than   192  countries  प्रत्येक  year  .
in   1969  at a UNESCO  सम्मेलन  in San  फ्रांसिस्को  , the  तिथि  proposed was  कूच  21  ,   1970  ,  the   पहला  day of spring in the northern hemisphere  .
इस   दिन   of   प्रकृति  's  equipoise  was later  मंजूर  in a Proclamation signed  by   सचिव  General  u  Thant at  the   संयुक्त   राष्ट्र  .
A  माह  later a separate Earth  दिन  was  संस्थापित  by United  राज्य   सीनेटर  Gaylord Nelson as an  पर्यावरणीय  teach-in  पहला  held on  अप्रैल  22 , 1970 .
Nelson  थी  later awarded  the   अध्यक्षीय   पदक  of  स्वतंत्रता  Award in recognition of his work  .
जबकि  this April 22  धरती   दिन   थी  focused  on  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   ,  an organization launched by  डेनिस   हेज़   ,   जो  was the  असली  national coordinator  in   1970   ,  took  it   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  in 1990  और   व्यवस्थित   कार्यक्रम   in  141 nations  .
numerous  communities  celebrate   धरती   सप्ताह  ,  an  entire week of activities  केन्द्रित  on environmental issues .
Iodine  is   a  chemical element with symbol I and  परमाणु  number  53  .
the  name  is  from  यूनानी   ioeidēs  ,  अर्थ  violet or  जामुनी   ,  due  to  the color  of  elemental  आयोडीन   वाष्प  .
आयोडीन  and its compounds are primarily  प्रयुक्त   in   पोषण   ,  and industrially  in  the  उत्पादन   of   एसिटिक   एसिड   और  certain  polymers   .
Iodine 's  अपेक्षाकृत  high atomic number , low  toxicity   ,  and ease of  अनुलग्नक   to  organic  यौगिकों  have made  it  a  भाग  of many X-ray contrast materials in  आधुनिक  medicine .
आयोडीन   रै  only  एक  stable isotope .
A  क्रमांक   of   आयोडीन  radioisotopes are also  प्रयुक्त  in medical applications  .
आयोडीन  is found  on   धरती  mainly  as   the   अत्यधिक  water-soluble iodide  आयन   ,  I−  ,   जिससे   concentrates   it  in oceans  और  brine pools .
जैसे   the   अन्य  halogens ,  फ़्री   आयोडीन   occurs  mainly as  a  diatomic molecule I2  ,  and then  तभी  momentarily after  होने  oxidized from iodide by an oxidant like free  ऑक्सीजन  .
In the  ब्रह्मांड  and on  धरती   ,  iodine  's   ऊँची  atomic number makes  it  a relatively  विरल   तत्व   .
however   ,  its presence in ocean water has  दिए  it  a   भूमिका  in  जीवविज्ञान   .
It  is  the  अधिकतम   अनिवार्य  element utilized  widely  by life in  biological  functions ( only  टंगस्टन   ,  employed  in   एंजाइमों  by a  few  species  of   जीवाणु  ,  is  heavier )  .
Iodine  's  rarity  in   अनेक  soils , due to  आरंभिक   कम   प्रचुरता  as a  crust-element   ,   और  also leaching  of   घुलनशील   आयोडाइड   by   rainwater  ,  रै  led  to  many deficiency  समस्याएं  in land animals  और  inland  इंसान   populations  .
Iodine deficiency affects about two  अरब   लोगों   और  is the leading preventable cause of intellectual disabilities  .
आयोडीन   is  required  by  higher animals  ,  which  उपयोग  it  to   synthesize  thyroid  हार्मोन  , which contain  the   तत्व   .
Because  of  this function ,  radioisotopes  of iodine  हैं  concentrated in the  थायराइड   ग्रंथि  along with  nonradioactive  iodine  .
If  inhaled  ,  the  radioisotope  iodine-131  ,  जिससे  has a  ऊँची  fission  उत्पाद   उपज  , concentrates in  the  thyroid  ,  but  is  easily  remedied   साथ   पोटैशियम  iodide  उपचार  .
Lobbying (  भी   लॉबी  )  is   the   अधिनियम  of  attempting  to  influence   निर्णय  made by officials in the government  ,   सबसे   प्रायः  legislators  or  members  of   नियामक   एजेंसियों   .
lobbying   is   किया   by   अनेक   अलग  types  of  people  और  organized groups ,  सहित  individuals in the private  सेक्टर  ,  corporations  ,  fellow  legislators or  सरकारी  officials  ,   or  advocacy groups  (   ब्याज  groups  )  .
Lobbyists may be among a legislator 's  constituencies  , meaning  a   वोटर  or bloc  of  voters within his  or   उसके  electoral district  ,   or  not ;  वे  may engage  in  lobbying as  a   कारोबार   ,  or  नहीं   .
Professional lobbyists  हैं   लोगों  whose business is trying to influence  विधान  on behalf  of  a  समूह   or  individual who hires them .
individuals   और   nonprofit   संगठन   can  also  लॉबी  as  an  act  of  volunteering or as a  छोटी   भाग   of  their  सामान्य  job  (  for instance  ,   a  CEO  बैठक  with  a   प्रतिनिधि  about  a  project  महत्वपूर्ण  to  his/her  company  ,  or an activist  बैठक  with  his/her   विधायक   in  an  unpaid   क्षमता   )   .
Governments often define  और  regulate organized  समूह   lobbying  that has become influential  .
The ethics  और   नैतिकता   of  lobbying are  .
lobbying  is often  बोला   of   साथ   अवमानना   ,  when the implication is that people with  अत्यधिक  socioeconomic  शक्ति  are  corrupting  the law  (  twisting it  दूर  from  निष्पक्षता   )   in  order to serve their own conflict of  ब्याज   .
But  another   पक्ष   of   lobbying  is  बनाना  sure that  अन्य   '  interests  हैं   विधिवत   defended  against others ' corruption ,  or  even simply making sure that  अल्पसंख्यक   रूचि  are fairly defended against mere  जुल्म  of the majority  .
For  उदाहरण  ,  a  medical association  ,   or  a  व्यापार  association of health  बीमे  companies  ,  may  लॉबी  a  विधानमंडल   in  order to counteract the  influence  of  तम्बाकू   कंपनियाँ   ,   in  which  मामला  the lobbying would be  viewed  by most people as justified  (  duly  defending  against others  '   भ्रष्टाचार  ) .
The difficulty in  आरेखण  objective lines  between  which  lobbyists  are ``  शुभ  lobbyists '' and  जिससे  ones  हैं  `` bad  ones  ''  is  compounded  by   the  cleverness  साथ  which lobbyists or their  क्लाइंट   can  argue that their  अपना  lobbying is of the ``  शुभ   ''  kind .
At  दिल  , the  प्रयत्न  to influence  विधान  is a power  संघर्ष   .
As  in   अन्य  forms  of  power  संघर्ष  , such  as  war  or   विधि   प्रवर्तन  , motives range  इससे  to  self-defense  to  लड़  for justice  ,  and the dividing  लकीर  between  predation  and justice  is  subject to rationalization  .
Sunshine of your love  गिटार  riff
मलाई   यहूद   a  1960s  अंग्रेजों  rock supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist Jack Bruce  ,   guitarist/vocalist   eric   क्लैप्टन   ,  and  वादक  Ginger Baker .
Their sound  थी  characterised  by  a  संकर  of blues  चट्टान  ,  मुश्किल  rock  और   साइकेडेलिक  rock  ,   combining  the psychedelia-themed lyrics  ,  Eric  क्लैप्टन  's  ब्लूज़  guitar playing and vocals , Jack Bruce  's   आवाज़   और   prominent  bass  playing  and  अदरक  Baker  's   जैज़  -influenced  drumming  .
The  समूह   's   तीसरा  album , Wheels of  आग   ,  was  the  world  's  first  platinum-selling  double album  .
Cream  हैं  widely regarded as being  the  world 's first successful  supergroup   .
In their career  ,   वे   बेची   over   15   लाख   एल्बम   विश्वव्यापी  .
Cream  's   म्यूज़िक   शामिल  songs based on traditional  ब्लूज़   ऐसे   as  `` Crossroads  ``   और   ``   spoonful   ``  ,  और  modern blues  ऐसे  as  ``   born  Under a  ख़राब  Sign `` , as  खूब  as more eccentric songs  ऐसे  as `` Strange  काढ़ा  `` , ``  किस्से  of  वीर  Ulysses `` and  ``  Toad ``  .
Cream  's  biggest  हिट्स  were `` I Feel Free `` ( UK ,  क्रमांक  11 ) , ``  सनशाइन  of Your  प्रेम  ``  (   us  , number  5   )   ,  `` White Room ``  (   us  ,  क्रमांक   6  ) , `` Crossroads  ''  ( US , number  28  )  ,   और  `` Badge `` ( UK , number 18 ) .
Cream  बना   a  significant impact on the popular music of the  समय  , and ,  साथ  with Jimi  हेंड्रिक्स  ,  और  Terry Kath  of  Chicago ,  popularised   the  use of the wah-wah  पैदल  .
They  provided   a   भारी  yet technically proficient musical theme that  foreshadowed  and influenced  the  emergence  of   अंग्रेजों  bands such  as  The Jeff  बेक  Group in the late 1960s  .
The band  's  live  प्रदर्शन   बहकावे   प्रगतिशील   चट्टान  acts such as Rush .
Cream were  inducted   into  the  चट्टान  and Roll  हॉल  of  कीर्ति  in  1993  .
वे   यहूद  included in both  रोलिंग   स्टोन  and  vh1  's  सूचियाँ  of  the  `` 100  महानतम  Artists  of  All Time  ''  .
वे  were  भी  ranked  क्रमांक   16  on  vh1  's  ``   100   महानतम  Artists  of  Hard Rock  ''  .
hairspray   is  a 1988 comedy  फिल्मी   लिखा  and directed by John Waters  ,   और  starring Ricki Lake  ,  Sonny  बोनो  , Debbie Harry  ,   माइकल   st.  Gerard , Shawn Thompson ,  colleen   fitzpatrick  ,  जेरी  Stiller  ,  and  in  his last film role  ,  Divine .
hairspray   थी  a  नाटकीय  departure  इससे   waters   '  earlier works , with a much broader intended  दर्शक  .
in  fact , Hairsprays  pg  is  the   mildest  rating a Waters  फिल्मी   रै   प्राप्त  ;  सबसे  of his previous films were rated  x   by  the MPAA  .
Set  in  1962 Baltimore ,  मेरीलैंड  , the film revolves around self-proclaimed  ``  pleasantly  plump  '' teenager Tracy Turnblad  as  she pursues stardom as a dancer  on   a   लोकल   tv  show and rallies  विरूद्ध  racial  पृथक्करण  .
Hairspray was only  a  moderate success upon its  आरंभिक  theatrical  रिलीज  , earning a modest gross of  $   8  million  .
However  ,   it   प्रबंधित  to attract  a   larger   दर्शक   on   घर  video in the early 1990s and became a cult classic  .
Most  आलोचकों   praised   the  film  ,   हालांकि   कुछ  were displeased with  the   overall   campiness  .
In 2002  ,   the   फिल्मी   थी  adapted into a  ब्रॉडवे   musical  of  the  same name , which  जीती   आठ  Tony Awards  ,  including Best  musical   in  2003  .
a   दूसरी   फिल्मी  version  of  Hairspray  ,  an  अनुकूलन  of the stage musical , was  भी   released   by  New  लकीर  Cinema in 2007  ,  which  शामिल  many changes of  scripted   वस्तुएं  from the original .
The film also ranks #  444  on Empire  पत्रिका  's  2008  list  of  the 500 greatest movies of all  समय  .
A Christian  denomination  is  an   identifiable   धार्मिक   देह  under a  आम   नाम   ,   ढांचा  , and doctrine  भीतर   christianity   .
कुछ   समूह  included do not consider themselves a denomination  (  e.g.  ,  the  कैथोलिक   गिरिजाघर   considers  itself the one true church and the Apostolic  देखिए  , and as pre-denominational )  .
Some groups viewed  by  non-adherents as denominational  actively  resist  होने  called a  denomination   और  do not have any formal denominational  ढांचा  , authority ,  or  record-keeping beyond the local congregation ; several  समूह   भीतर  Restoration Movement  पतन   into  this  श्रेणी   .
कुछ   समूह  are  विशाल   (   e.g  . Catholics  ,  Lutherans  ,  Anglicans or Baptists ) , while others  हैं  just a few small churches , and  in  most  मामले  the relative size is  नहीं  evident in  इस  list .
आधुनिक  movements such as  fundamentalist  Christianity  ,  Pietism , Evangelicalism  ,  Pentecostalism and the  पवित्रता   गति  sometimes cross denominational  लाइनों  , or in some cases  बनाएँ  new denominations out of  दो   or  more continuing groups , (  as  is the case  लिये   अनेक  United and uniting churches  ,   लिये  example ) .
ऐसे  subtleties  और   complexities  are not clearly depicted  यहाँ  .
Major  विभाजन  within  christianity   .
Note : This is  नहीं   a  complete list ,  लकिन  aims  to  provide  a   comprehensible  overview of  the  diversity  among  denominations of Christianity .
As there are  reported  to be  लगभग   41,000  Christian denominations ,  अनेक   of  which can  नहीं   be  verified  to   be  significant  ,  only  those   denominations   साथ   विकिपीडिया  articles will be listed  in  order to  ensure  that all entries on  इस   सूची  are notable and  verifiable  .
Between denominations ,  theologians   ,  and comparative religionists  वहीँ   हैं   considerable  disagreements  परिचय   जिससे  groups can be  properly   पुकारा  Christian ,  मतभिन्नता   arising  primarily from  doctrinal   मतभेद  between  समूह  .
For  the  purpose of  सादगी  , this  सूची  is intended  to   प्रतिबिंबित  the self-understanding  of  each denomination .
Explanations of  अलग   राय  concerning their status as  ईसाई  denominations  can   be  found at their respective  आलेख  .
There  is  no  आधिकारिक  recognition  in  most parts of the  संसार  for religious bodies , and there is no official clearinghouse which  could  determine  the  status  or   respectability   of  religious bodies  .
Often  वहीँ  is considerable disagreement between various  चर्च   परिचय  whether other churches should be  labeled   साथ  pejorative terms such as  ``  cult '' ,  or   परिचय   whether  this  or  that  समूह  enjoys some measure of respectability  .
Such  considerations  often  vary  from place to  प्लेस   ,  where  एक   धार्मिक  group may  आनंद   बहुमत   औकात   in   एक  region , but be widely regarded as  a  ``  खतरनाक  cult  ''  in  another   भाग   of  the world .
समावेश   on   इस  list does  नहीं   indicate  any judgment about the  आकार   ,  importance  ,  or character of a group or its members  .
1804  मैप   of  ``  louisiana   ``  , edged  on  the  वेस्ट   by  the  रॉकी   kyu   .
the  Louisiana  खरीदें  (  ``  Sale of Louisiana  ''  )  थी   the  acquisition by the United States of  अमेरिका  in 1803 of of France 's  अर्जी  to  the   territory  of Louisiana .
The  u.S.  paid 50 million  francs  ( $ 11 ,250,000 )  प्लस  cancellation of debts  लायक  18  लाख  francs ( $  3,750,000   )  , for a  कुल  sum  of   15   लाख   डॉलर   (  less than  3  cents  प्रति   एकड़  ) for the Louisiana  territory  ( $  लाख   in   डॉलर  , less  than   42  cents per  एकड़  ) .
the  Louisiana territory  encompassed  all  or  part  of   15  present U.S. states  और  two  कनाडाई  provinces  .
The land  खरीदा   contained   सब   of  present-day Arkansas , Missouri  ,  Iowa ,  ओक्लाहोमा  , Kansas , and Nebraska  ;  parts of  मिनेसोटा  that  यहूद  west of the  मिसिसिपी  River ;  सबसे  of North Dakota  ;  most of South  डकोटा   ;   northeastern  New Mexico ;  उत्तरी   टेक्सास   ;  the portions  of   मोंटाना  , Wyoming , and Colorado  ईस्ट  of the Continental Divide ;  louisiana  west  of  the Mississippi  नदी   ,  including the city of  नई  Orleans ;  और   छोटी  portions  of  land that would  आखिरकार   become  part of  the  Canadian  प्रांतों  of  अलबर्टा  and Saskatchewan .
France controlled this vast area from 1699 until 1762  ,  the  साल  it  दिया  the  territory  to its  ally  Spain .
अंतर्गत  Napoleon  बोनापार्ट  , France took  वापस  the territory  in  1800 in  the  hope  of   भवन  an  साम्राज्य  in  उत्तर  America .
A slave revolt  in  Haiti and  an  impending  युद्ध   साथ   ब्रिटेन   ,  however , led  फ़्रांस  to  लापरवाही  these plans and sell  the  entire territory to  the  United States , who  था  originally  intended  only to  तलाश  the purchase  of  New  ऑरलियन्स  and  इसके  adjacent lands .
The purchase of the territory of  louisiana   took  place during  the  presidency of Thomas Jefferson  .
At the time , the purchase  faced  domestic  विपक्ष  because it  थी  thought to be  असंवैधानिक   .
Although he agreed that the  u.S.  Constitution did not contain  प्रावधानों   लिये  acquiring territory ,  जेफरसन   decided  to go ahead  साथ  the purchase  वैसे  in  अनुक्रम   to   हटाएँ  France  's  presence  in  the  प्रदेश  and  to  protect  दोनो   u.S.  trade  अभिगम  to the  बंदरगाहों   of   नई   ऑरलियन्स  and  फ़्री   ड्योढ़ी   on   the   मिसिसिपी   नदी   .
Ceremony at Place d'Armes  ,  New Orleans marking transfer of Louisiana to the United  राज्य   ,   10   कूच   1804   ,   as   चित्रित   by  Thure de  thulstrup   .
``  Cool  झटका  '' is  a  popular  सोंग  written  by  Donald Storball  और  originally performed by The Capitols  .
Released in  1966  ,  it   पहुँचे  No  .   2   on  the American R & B  चार्ट  and  no   .   7  on  the   पॉप  chart .
The  बैकिंग   track   लिये   इस  song  थी  actually recorded (  secretly  )  by   the  Motown house band  the   दुर्गंध   भाइयो  .
प्रति  one of the Funk  भाइयो   ,   the  song  थी  originally to  be   पुकारा  ``  pimp  Jerk . ''
इस  was  लिया   इससे  watching  पड़ोस   pimps  , who  होता  dance  in   the  clubs ,  लकिन   यहूद  too `` cool  ''  to do the  झटका   जैसे   नियमित  folks  .
Their  संस्करण   थी  subsequently  नामित  ``  the  Pimp Jerk  .  ''
The producer was afraid that  a   सोंग   साथ  the word  pimp  in  the  title would be  बैन  or  नहीं   प्राप्त   much  positive attention , and had the title changed  to  its  वर्तमान  form  .
the   go-go  's , Todd Rundgren , Big Trouble , Human  यौन  Response  ,   the  La  de  Da 's  ,  The  सृष्टि  , and  the   coasters   have   covered  the song  .
Todd  rundgren   किया   उसके   संस्करण   in  an  विषम  time signature (  7/4  ) , giving an obviously  jerky  feel to the song .
The  go-go   's   covered  the  सोंग   लिये   उनके  1982  एल्बम   अवकाश   और  later re-recorded  it   लिये  their  1990   एल्बम   महानतम  .
in  the feature film  घर   अलोन  2 :  खोया  in New  यॉर्क  ,  ताऊ  Frank  (   gerry   bamman   )  sings  ``   कूल   झटका   ''   in  the  बरसात  .
A version  of  the  सोंग  with different lyrics  (  ``  do  the Cool  चाबुक  ''  )   is   प्रयुक्त   in   कूल  Whip  commercials   .
A recording  of  `` Cool  झटका   ''  by  रिकार्डो   रे  is featured  in  the feature  फिल्मी  Donnie Brasco  (  1997  )  .
The  सोंग   सुविधाएँ   in  the film Standing  in  the Shadows of Motown  ,  performed by the Funk  भाइयो  with  सीसे  vocals by  bootsy  Collins .
the  song is heard briefly in the  एनिमेटेड  feature , Madagascar  3   :   यूरोपीय  's Most  चाही   .
Despite  इस   कारण   ,  it is  सूचीबद्ध   in  some variations  of   the  film 's  साउंडट्रैक  .
a  league is a  ईकाई  of  लंबाई   (  or ,  rarely   ,   क्षेत्रफल   )   .
It was  long  common in Europe and Latin America , but it is no longer an official unit in any nation .
The league originally referred  to  the distance a  व्यक्ति  could walk  in   an  hour  .
चूंकि  the Middle Ages , many values have been specified  in  several  देशों  .
in   the   कॉन्टेक्स्ट   of   nautical   दूरियाँ  , the  3  mile ( 4.8 km  )  distance corresponds to  कैसा   दूर   an  observer of average  ऊँचाई  ( 5'9 '' or  1.78   m  ) can  देखिए  when standing at  समुद्र  level .
यूँ  , a ship  traveling   एक  `` league ''  रै  reached what was previously the farthest visible  अलहदा  on  the   क्षितिज  .
the  lack of  a  historical and  वैश्विक   मानक  for the  सटीक  measure of  a  ``  लीग  ''  can  be accounted for  by   the   परिवर्तनीय   उन्नयन   of   the  observer ( i.e. , sightings  इससे   a  ship 's  डेक   vs.   masthead  )  .
The Irish state  आए  into being  in  1922  as  the Irish  फ़्री  State ,  a   डोमिनियन  of  the   अंग्रेजों  Commonwealth  ,  having seceded from  the  United Kingdom  अंतर्गत   the  Anglo-Irish Treaty .
It  comprises   26  of Ireland  's  32 counties  .
चूंकि  1949 it has existed as the  गणतंत्र   of  Ireland  .
इससे  its  न्यास  ,  the   आयरिश   फ़्री  State was  embroiled  in  a   सिविल   युद्ध  between nationalists supporting the Treaty  और   प्रतिद्वंद्वियों  who supported a republic  .
the  pro-Treaty side , organised  as  Cumann na  ngaedheal  emerged victorious from  the  conflict and won subsequent  चुनावों  .
They formed the government  of  the state  जबतक  1932  ,  when  वे   शांतिपूर्वक   हात   over  power to  the  anti-Treaty  गुट   in  Fianna  fáil   ,   जो  defeated them in an election .
the  Irish  राज्य   ,   despite   इसके  violent  beginnings  ,  रै  remained a  उदार   लोकतंत्र  throughout  इसके  existence  .
A new constitution in  1937   removed   अनेक  of the  कड़ी  with Britain  स्थापित  under  the  Treaty and  आयरलैंड  's neutrality in  the  Second World  युद्ध  demonstrated its independence in  विदेशी   नीति  matters  इससे  Britain .
In 1948 Ireland  formally   बाएँ  the  अंग्रेजों   राष्ट्रमंडल  and  अपनाया  the title  of  `` Republic ''  .
in  the  आर्थिक  sphere , the Irish state has had a mixed performance  .
On independence , it  थी   एक  of the  wealthier   देशों  in Europe  प्रति  head of  जनसांख्यिकी  .
However  it  also  inherited  from British rule  the   समस्याएं   of  unemployment  ,  emigration , uneven  भौगोलिक  development  और  lack of  a  native  औद्योगिक   आधार  .
For  much   of  its history ,  the   राज्य   struggled  to rectify  ये   समस्याएं  .
particular  peaks of emigration were  अंकित  during the  लेट  1930s , 1950s  और  1980s  ,  when  the   आयरिश   अर्थव्यवस्था   अंकित  little  विकास   .
In the  1930s   ,   fianna   fáil  governments  attempted   to  create  आयरिश   घरेलू  industries using  subsidies   और  protective tarifs  .
in   the   लेट   1950s  ,  ये   नीतियों  were  dropped   in   पक्ष   of   फ़्री  trade  साथ   चयनित  countries  और  encouraging  of   विदेशी   निवेश  with  कम  taxes  .
इस   थी  expanded when Ireland  डाला  the  यूरोपीय  Economic  जातियाँ   in   1972   .
In  the  1990s and  2000s   ,   आयरलैंड   अनुभवी   an  economic  बूम  known  as  the Celtic  बाघ   ,  in which the  देश  's  जीडीपी  surpassed  अनेक  of its European neighbours .
Immigration  भी   surpassed   करणों   ,  bringing the  राज्य  's population up  to  over 4 million  .
however  ,  चूंकि  2008  ,  Ireland  रै  experienced a  कठोर   संकट   in   the   बैंकिंग   सेक्टर  and  साथ  sovereign debt .
The resultant economic slump has  deepened   the  effect  of  the world  मंदी   on  Ireland .
इससे  1937  to  1998  ,  the Irish constitution  शामिल   a   अर्जी   on  Northern Ireland  as   a   भाग  of the  नेशनल  territory .
However , the state also opposed  और  used  इसके  security forces against  those  armed groups - principally the Provisional Irish  रिपब्लिकन  Army , who  आजमाया  to unite Ireland  by   फ़ोर्स  .
This  occurred   in  the 1950s , throughout the 1970s and 1980s and has continued on  a   घटाया  scale .
आयरिश   सरकारें  meanwhile  आजमाया   to  broker  an  agreement  to  the conflict known as  the   परेशानियों   भीतर   उत्तरी   आयरलैंड   इससे   1968  to  the  late 1990s  .
The  अंग्रेजों  government  officially  recognised  the   सही  of  the   आयरिश  government  to   be   a  party to the Northern negotiations in the Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985 .
in   1998   ,  as  भाग   of  the  शुभ   शुक्रवार  Agreement , the  आयरिश  constitution was altered by referendum to  हटाएँ   the  territorial  अर्जी  to Northern Ireland and instead  extend  the right  of  Irish  नागरिकता   to  all  the  people of the  द्वीप   चाहिए  they wish  to   have   it   .
जॉन  Quincy  एडम्स  (  जुलाई  11 , 1767February  23   ,   1848   )   थी  the sixth  अध्यक्ष  of  the  United  राज्य   (  1825–1829 ) .
he  served as American diplomat  ,  Senator , and Congressional  प्रतिनिधि  .
He was a member  of  the Federalist  ,  Democratic-Republican  ,  National  रिपब्लिकन   ,  and  बाद  Anti-Masonic and  whig  parties .
Adams  थी  the son  of   पूर्व   अध्यक्ष  John  एडम्स  and Abigail Adams .
as  a  राजनयिक  , Adams  निभाई  an  महत्वपूर्ण   भूमिका   in  negotiating many international treaties ,  सबसे  notably the  सन्धि  of  ghent   ,  which ended  the  War  of  1812 .
As Secretary of State ,  he  negotiated  साथ  the United  किंगडम   over  America  's   उत्तरी  border with Canada  ,  negotiated  साथ  Spain the  annexation  of Florida , and authored the Monroe Doctrine  .
इतिहासकारों   सहमत  he was one  of  the greatest diplomats and  secretaries   of  state in  अमरीकी   इतिहास   .
as  president ,  he   sought  to modernize the American economy and  प्रचारित  education .
एडम्स  enacted a part of  उसके   कार्यसूची  and  सशुल्क   बंद   much  of the  नेशनल  debt  .
He  थी  stymied by a Congress controlled  by  his enemies  ,   और  his  कमी  of  patronage  networks helped politicians eager to undercut him  .
he  lost  उसके   1828   बोली  for  re-election   to  Andrew Jackson  .
In  doing   so  ,  he  became the first  अध्यक्ष  since his father  to  serve  a   सिंगल  term .
एडम्स  is  बेहतरीन  known  as   a  diplomat  जो  shaped America  's   विदेशी   नीति   in  line with  उसके   ardently   राष्ट्रवादी  commitment to America  's  republican  मान   .
अधिक   recently  Howe  (  2007  )  portrayed  एडम्स  as the exemplar and moral leader  in  an era of modernization .
दौरान   एडम्स   '   आजीवन  , technological innovations  और  new means  of   संचार  spread messages of religious  पुनरुद्धार  , social reform  ,   और  party politics .
Goods ,  धन  ,  और  people traveled more  rapidly  and  efficiently   than  ever before  .
Adams  थी  elected a  u.S.   प्रतिनिधि  from Massachusetts after  leaving  office  ,  serving for  the   पिछला   17  years  of  his  जीवन  with far greater acclamation than he  था  achieved  as   अध्यक्ष   .
he  is , so far  ,   the   तभी  president later elected to  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   हाउस   of   प्रतिनिधि  ( though John Tyler  थी   निर्वाचित   to  the House of Representatives of  the  Confederate  राज्य  just before his  मौत  in 1862  )  .
एनिमेटेड   by   उसके  growing  revulsion  against slavery , Adams  became  a  अग्रणी   प्रतिद्वन्दी   of  the Slave Power .
he  predicted  कि   if   a  civil war  यहूद  to break  आउट   ,  the president could  abolish   गुलामी   by   using  his war powers  .
Adams also  पूर्वानुमानित   the  Union 's dissolution  over  the slavery  समस्या   ,   लकिन   कहा  that if  the   दक्षिण  became  स्वतंत्र  there would be a series  of  bloody slave revolts  .
Windows Internet  एक्सप्लोरर  9 ( IE9 ) is a  संस्करण  of the  अंतरजाल  Explorer web browser from  microsoft  .
It  थी   released  to the public on March 14  ,  2011 .
Microsoft  रै   released   अंतरजाल  Explorer 9  as  a  प्रमुख  out-of-band version  कि  is  नहीं  tied to the release schedule  of  any  particular   संस्करण  of Windows ,  नापसंद   पिछला  versions  .
It  is  the  पहला  version  चूंकि  Internet  एक्सप्लोरर  2  to  not  be   bundled  with a Windows  ऑपरेटिंग  system , although some OEMs have installed  it   साथ   खिड़कियाँ  7 on  उनके  PCs ,  as   खूब  as  नई  Windows 7  लैपटॉप  .
The system requirements  लिये  Internet Explorer 9 are  खिड़कियाँ  7 , Windows Server  2008   r2  ,  खिड़कियाँ  Vista Service  पैक  2  or   खिड़कियाँ  Server  2008  SP2  साथ  the Platform Update  .
खिड़कियाँ   xp   और  earlier are not supported .
Internet Explorer 9  is  the last version of Internet Explorer  to  be supported on Windows Vista .
दोनो   ia-32  and x64 builds are  उपलब्धियाँ  .
Internet  एक्सप्लोरर   9   supports   अनेक   सीएसएस  3  गुण  ,  अंतःस्थापित   आईसीसी   v2   or  v4 color profiles  support   via   खिड़कियाँ   रंग  System , and  रै  improved JavaScript performance .
It  is  the last  of   the  five  प्रमुख   वेब   browsers  to  implement  support for Scalable Vector Graphics  (  SVG ) .
It also  सुविधाएँ   hardware-accelerated   ग्राफिक्स  rendering using Direct2D ,  hardware-accelerated   टेक्स्ट  rendering using DirectWrite  ,   hardware-accelerated   वीडियो   रेंडरिंग  using  मीडिया  Foundation  ,  imaging  support  provided  by   खिड़कियाँ  Imaging Component  ,  and high fidelity printing  संचालित   by   the   xml  Paper  specification   (   xps  )  छपाई   पाइपलाइन  .
Internet Explorer  9  also supports the  html5   वीडियो  and audio  टैग  and the Web Open  फ़ॉन्ट  Format .
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent  antacid   और   पीड़ा  reliever  पहला  marketed by the Dr  .   मील  Medicine Company  .
It was  विकसित  by Maurice Treener , head chemist  at   मील  ,  in   elkhart  ,  इंडियाना  .
Alka-Seltzer  is   marketed   लिये   राहत  of minor  aches  , pains , inflammation ,  ज्वर   ,  headache , heartburn  ,  sour stomach  ,   अपच  , and  hangovers  , while  neutralizing  excess stomach acid  .
it   थी  launched in  1931  .
A spin-off of Alka-Seltzer made to  relieve  colds and  फ्लू   ,  Alka-Seltzer Plus ,  थी  later  introduced   .
a   short-lived   antacid   non-aspirin  variant ,  alka-mints  ,  थी  introduced in  1994  and discontinued  in   1997   .
alka-seltzer   is   फिलहाल  owned by Bayer Schering  फार्मा  AG , Germany  .
the  name `` Alka-Seltzer '' has been extended to incorporate an entire  लकीर  of medications  बेची  over the  काउंटर  and taken by means of rapidly dissolving  टैबलेट  that  रूप  a carbonated solution in water .
चेरी   अलका   seltzer  Plus Tablet dissolving in water
Image  प्रर्दशित  the six most common speleothems with labels  .
Enlarge to  दृश्य  labels .
A  stalactite  (  ,  ;  इससे  the  यूनानी   stalasso   ,  ( σταλάσσω  )   ,  ``  to  drip '' , and meaning ``  कि   जिससे   drips  '' ) is a type of speleothem  (   द्वितीयक   खनिज  )  कि  hangs from the  छत   of   चूना   गुफाएं  .
It is  a   प्रकार  of dripstone .
the  corresponding  गठन   on   the  floor  of  the  गुफा   is   ज्ञात  as  a  stalagmite .
Degree abbreviations are used as  an  alternative way  to  specify an academic  उपाधि  instead  of   स्पेलिंग  out the title in full , such  as   in   सन्दर्भ   किताबे   जैसे   जो  's Who  और  on  कारोबार   ताश   .
Many degrees have more than  एक   संक्षिप्त  .
in  the  uk  ,  it   is   नहीं  generally  the   कस्टम   to   punctuate  abbreviations  लिये  degrees  साथ  full  stops  ( e.g . `` BSc  ''  rather  than  `` B.Sc . `` .
Race is  a  classification system  प्रयुक्त  to  categorize   इंसानो  into  विशाल  and  पृथक   populations   or  groups by  anatomical  ,  सांस्कृतिक  , ethnic  ,   जेनेटिक  ,  भौगोलिक  , historical  ,  linguistic ,  धार्मिक   ,  or  सोशल   संबद्ध  .
First  प्रयुक्त   to   denote  national affiliations , the term began to  be  used to  सुनाना  to physical traits in the  17th  century  .
In the early 20th  सदी  the term was often used ,  in   a   taxonomic   भाव  , to denote  genetically   differentiated  human  populations  defined by  phenotype  .
While biologists  sometimes  use the  अवधारणा  of race to  मेक  distinctions among fuzzy  सेट   of   traits   ,  others in the  वैज्ञानिक  community suggest  कि  the idea of race  प्रायः  is  प्रयुक्त  in  a  naive or simplistic way ,  i.e   .   कि   among   इंसानो   ,  race has  no  taxonomic significance  :   सब  living  इंसानो  belong to  the   वही   प्रजाति   ,  Homo sapiens  और  subspecies , Homo sapiens sapiens  .
सोशल   conceptions   और   groupings   of   दौड़  vary over time  ,   involving   लोक  taxonomies
कि   define  of individuals based  on  perceived traits  .
वैज्ञानिकों  consider biological essentialism obsolete , and  generally  discourage  जातिगत   स्पष्टीकरण  for collective differentiation in  दोनो   शारीरिक  and behavioral traits  .
Since  the   दूसरी  half  of   the  20th century  the  associations of race with the  विचारधाराओं  and  theories  that grew  आउट  of the work of 19th-century  विज्ञानियों  and  physiologists   रै  led to  the  use  of  the  शब्द  race  itself  becoming problematic .
Although still used in general  contexts  ,  it  is now often replaced by other words  जिससे  are less ambiguous and  emotionally  charged ,  ऐसे  as populations , people  (  s ) , ethnic  समूह  or  समुदायों   depending  on context .
Lucy Stone  (   अगस्त   13   ,  1818 –  अक्तूबर   19   ,  1893  )  was a  prominent  American  abolitionist  and suffragist , and a  गायन   एडवोकेट   और   आयोजक   promoting   अधिकारों  for  महिलाओं  .
In  1847   ,  Stone  became  the first  स्त्री  from  मैसाचुसेट्स   to   earn  a college  उपाधि   .
वो  spoke out for women 's rights  और  against slavery at a  समय   जब   महिलाओं  were discouraged and  prevented  from  पब्लिक  speaking .
Stone was  the  first recorded American woman  to  retain her own last name  बाद   विवाह  .
स्टोन  's organizational activities for the cause of women 's rights  yielded   ठोस  gains in the  मुश्किल  political  पर्यावरण   of   the   19th  century .
स्टोन   helped   initiate  the  पहला   नेशनल  Women  's   अधिकारों  Convention and  वो   समर्थित   और  sustained  it  annually along with  a  number  of  other  लोकल   ,  state  और  regional activist  प्रथाओं   .
स्टोन  spoke  in   सामने   of  a  क्रमांक  of  विधान   लाशें  to promote laws giving  अधिक   अधिकारों   to  women .
She assisted  in   establishing  the  स्त्री  's National Loyal  लीग  to help pass  the  Thirteenth  amendment   और   thereby   abolish  slavery  ,   बाद   जिससे  she helped form the largest group of like-minded women 's  अधिकारों  reformers  ,  the politically moderate American  स्त्री  Suffrage  संघ  , which worked for  दशकों   at   the   राज्य  level in  एहसान  of women 's  सही   to   vote   .
स्टोन  wrote  extensively  about a wide range of women  's   अधिकारों  ,  प्रकाशन   और  distributing  भाषणों   by  herself  और  others , and  सम्मेलन   कार्यवाही   .
In  the  long-running  और  influential Woman  's   जर्नल   ,   a  weekly periodical  कि  she established and promoted  ,  Stone aired both  उसके  own  और   differing   दृश्य  about  महिलाओं  's  अधिकारों  .
पुकारा  `` the orator ''  और  `` the  morning  star of the woman  's  rights movement '' ,  स्टोन   वितरित   a   वाक   जिससे  sparked  सुसान  B.  एंथोनी  to  लो   up  the  कारण  of women  's  suffrage .
Elizabeth  cady  Stanton wrote  कि  `` Lucy  स्टोन  was  the  first person by whom the heart of  the   अमरीकी   पब्लिक  was deeply  stirred   on  the  स्त्री  question .  ''
साथ  , Anthony  ,   stanton  , and Stone have  महरूम  called  the  19th century  ``   triumvirate  `` of women 's  suffrage   और   नारीवाद  .
In finance ,  a   बंध   is  an  यंत्र  of  indebtedness  of  the   बंध  issuer  to  the  धारकों  .
It is  a  debt security , under which the issuer owes  the   धारकों  a  कर्ज़  and , depending on  the  terms of  the  bond ,  is   obliged  to pay them interest (  the   कूपन  )  or   to   repay   the  principal at a later date  ,  termed the  परिपक्वता   .
Interest  is   प्रायः   देय  at fixed intervals ( semiannual , annual  ,   sometimes   मासिक  )  .
Very often  the   बंध  is negotiable , i.e .  the  ownership  of   the   यंत्र  can be  transferred  in the  द्वितीयक  market .
यूँ  a bond is  a   रूप  of loan or  iou   :   the  holder of  the   बंध  is the lender (  creditor  ) , the issuer of the  बंध  is the borrower ( debtor  )   ,   और  the coupon  is  the interest  .
bonds  provide the borrower with external  निधि  to finance  long-term  investments  ,  or  ,   in   the  case  of  government bonds , to  वित्त  current expenditure .
प्रमाणपत्र   of  deposit ( CDs )  or  short term commercial paper are considered to be money market instruments and  नहीं   bonds   :  the main difference is  in   the   लंबाई   of  the term of the  यंत्र  .
Bonds and  स्टॉक्स  are  दोनो  securities  ,   लकिन   the  major  अंतर   between   the  two is that  (   पूंजी   )   stockholders  have an equity  हिस्सेदारी  in the company ( i.e  .  they  हैं  owners  )  , whereas  bondholders   have   a  creditor stake  in  the  कम्पनी   (  i.e .  वे  are  lenders   )  .
Another difference  is   कि  bonds  प्रायः  have a  पारिभाषित  term  ,   or  maturity  ,   बाद   जिससे  the  बंध  is  redeemed  , whereas  स्टॉक्स  may be  बकाया  indefinitely .
an   एक्सेप्शन  is an irredeemable bond ,  ऐसे  as  consols   ,   जिससे   is  a  perpetuity   ,  i.e . a  बंध  with  no  maturity .
a   स्केल  model  of  the Tower  of  London .
This model can  be  found  अंदर   the   मीनार  .
Scale model  of   जल  powered turbine
l   to  R with 12 inch  शासक  at bottom :  1:64  Matchbox  शेवरलेट  Tahoe , 1:43 Ford F-100  ,  1:25  revell  Monogram  1999   घाट   mustang  Cobra , 1:18 Bburago 1987  फेरारी  F40
Model  जहाजों  and  किला
a  scale  मॉडल  is a  शारीरिक   मॉडल  , a representation or copy of  an   ऑब्जेक्ट  that is larger or smaller  than  the actual size  of  the object ,  जिससे  seeks  to   maintain  the  सापेक्ष  proportions (  the   स्केल  factor )  of  the physical size of the  असली  object  .
Very  प्रायः   the  scale model is used  as   a   मार्गदर्शिका  to  बनाना  the  ऑब्जेक्ट  in full size .
Scale  मॉडल  are  निर्मित   or  collected  लिये  many  कारण  .
the   zune  HD  थी  a portable media player in the  zune  product  परिवार  released on  सितंबर   15  , 2009 by Microsoft .
it  was a direct competitor with  the  Apple iPod  और  iPhone  श्रेणी  of mobile devices  .
It was initially released in  16  and 32 GB capacities .
A 64 GB version was  released  on  अप्रैल   9  ,  2010   .
It utilized  a   टचस्क्रीन  interface  लिये   नेविगेशन   और   शामिल  Wi-Fi for synchronization  ,   अभिगम  to the  zune  Marketplace  और  Web browsing .
The Zune  hd  utilized the Nvidia Tegra APX  2600  chip  ,   allowing   it   to  play  720p  video through the optional HDMI Zune  डॉक   on   a  high-definition television .
Otherwise , content would  be  scaled down  to  480x272 pixels on the  खिलाड़ी  's  oled  touchscreen  .
Old  sparky  ,  the   इलेक्ट्रिक   कुर्सी  used at  गाओ  Sing prison
निष्पादन   by  electrocution  ,  usually  performed   using   an  electric  कुर्सी   ,   is  an execution method originating in the  संयुक्त  States  in   जिससे  the  condemned  person  is   strapped  to  a  specially built wooden  कुर्सी   और  electrocuted  through   electrodes   लगाई  on  the  body .
इस   निष्पादन   विधि  was created  by  employees of Thomas Edison  दौरान  the  युद्ध  of  currents  , and has been  प्रयुक्त  only  in  the United States and  ,   लिये   a   काल   of  several decades , in  the  Philippines  (   इसके  first  उपयोग   वहीँ   in   1924   अंतर्गत  American occupation  ,  last in  1976  ) .
Historically ,  एकबार   the  condemned person was attached  to   the   कुर्सी  , various  चक्र  (  differing   in  voltage and duration ) of alternating  वर्तमान  would be  passed  through the individual 's body , in order to  कारण  fatal damage to  the  internal organs ( including  the  brain ) .
the  first jolt of electric current was designed to cause  तात्कालिक  unconsciousness and brain death ; the second one was designed  to  cause fatal damage  to   the   vital  organs  .
मौत   थी  frequently  caused  by electrical  overstimulation   of   the   दिल  .
हालांकि   in  the  संयुक्त  States the electric  कुर्सी  has become a symbol of the death penalty ,  इसके   उपयोग   is  in decline due to the  वृद्धि   of  lethal injection , which is widely believed to  be  a more  दयालु   विधि  of execution  .
Although  कुछ  states still  maintain   electrocution  as a method of  निष्पादन  ,  आज  it  is   तभी   कायम  as a secondary method that  may  be chosen over lethal injection  at  the  निवेदन   of   the   कैदी  .
As of  2010  ,  electrocution  is  an   वैकल्पिक   रूप  of  निष्पादन  in  अलबामा   ,  Florida , South Carolina  और   वर्जिनिया  .
They allow the  कैदी   to   चुनें  lethal injection  as  an  वैकल्पिक  method .
In  the  states of  केंटकी  and Tennessee  ,   the  electric  कुर्सी   रै  been retired except for  those  whose capital crimes were committed prior to legislated  तिथियाँ  in 1998 (  केंटकी  :  कूच   31  , 1998 ; Tennessee : December 31  ,  1998 ) and  जो   chose  electrocution .
In both  राज्य  , inmates who  do  not choose  electrocution   or   inmates  who committed their  अपराधों   बाद   the   designated   तिथि   हैं   मारे   by  lethal  इंजेक्शन   .
The electric  कुर्सी  is  an   वैकल्पिक  form  of  execution  स्वीकृत   लिये   संभावित   उपयोग  in  अरकंसास   और  Oklahoma  if   अन्य   फ़ॉर्म  of execution are  मिला  unconstitutional in  the  state  at  the  समय  of  निष्पादन  .
it  is  the   एकमात्र   विधि  of execution  in   वर्मांट  , where  देशद्रोह  is the only  पूंजी   अपराधों   .
on  February  8   ,   2008   ,   the  Nebraska  परम्  Court determined  कि  execution  by   इलेक्ट्रिक   कुर्सी  was a  ``  cruel  और  unusual punishment '' under the state  's  constitution  .
This  brought   executions   of   इस  type  to  an  समाप्त   in   नेब्रास्का  ,  the  only remaining state to retain electrocution as its sole  विधि  of execution for murder .
The Maryland House of Delegates is the lower house of the General  सभा  , the  राज्य   विधानमंडल  of  the  American State of  मेरीलैंड   ,   और   is  composed of 141 Delegates elected from 47 districts  .
the  House  of  Delegates Chamber is  स्तिथ   in   the   मेरीलैंड  State  हाउस  (  राज्य  capitol  )   on  State Circle  in  Annapolis , which is the  राज्य   पूंजी  .
the  State House also houses the Maryland  राज्य  Senate  कक्ष  and the  कार्यालयों  of the Governor  और   लेफ्टिनेंट  Governor of the State  of  Maryland .
Each Delegate  रै  offices  in  Annapolis ,  in  the  आसपास   कैस्पर  R.  टेलर  ,  jr.   हाउस   दफ्तर   भवन  .
The  मुक्ति  of Paris  (  also  ज्ञात   as   the  Battle for Paris ) took  प्लेस  during  संसार  War II from 19  अगस्त  1944 until  the  surrender of the occupying German garrison on 25  अगस्त  .
The  मुक्ति  of Paris  प्रारंभ  with  an  uprising by the French Resistance  विरूद्ध  the  जर्मनी  garrison .
on  24 August , the  फ्रेंच   शक्तियां   of   the  Interior ( Forces  françaises  de l'intérieur  ,   ffi  )  प्राप्त   सुदृढीकरण   इससे   the   फ़्री   फ्रेंच  Army of  मुक्ति  and  इससे   the  U.S.  तीसरा  Army  अंतर्गत  General Patton  .
the   पूंजी   प्रदेश  of  फ़्रांस   था   महरूम   governed  by Nazi Germany  चूंकि  the  हस्ताक्षर  of  the   दूसरी  Compiègne Armistice  in   जून   1940  ,  जब   the  German Army  occupied  northern and westernmost France  ,  and when the  कठपुतली   शासन   of   vichy  France  थी  established in  the   कस्बा   of  Vichy  in  central France .
इस  battle  चिह्नित   the   मुक्ति   of  Paris  और  the  निर्वासन  of  the  Vichy government to Sigmaringen in  जर्मनी  .
However , there  थी  still much  भारी   लड़   to  be done before  फ़्रांस  was liberated ,  सहित  the campaign  in  southern  फ़्रांस   दौरान  August-September  (   in   provence  and extending into the southwestern region  of  the  vosges  Mountains  )  ,  साथ  the German-held  seaports  of western France (  ऐसे  as at Brest and Dunkirk )  ,  in  alsace  and  लोरेन  in eastern France ,  और   in  northeastern France  ,  such  as   साथ  the Rhine and Moder  नदियाँ  .
The  जर्मनी   फौज  and  ss   लड़ा   doggedly  in these areas for the  शेष   of   1944   और  into 1945 .
``  Feelin ' Alright ? ''  भी  known  as   ``  Feeling Alright  ''  is  a  song written by Dave Mason  of   the  English rock band Traffic  इससे  their  eponymous  1968  एल्बम  , Traffic  .
the   सोंग  was also  a  hit  सिंगल  for  अनेक  performers :  जो   cocker  ( 1969  ,   #  69 , recharted in  1972   ,  US  #  33 ) , Mongo Santamaría (  1969   ,   #   95  ) and Grand Funk  रेलरोड  (  1971  , US #  54   )   .
it   रै  also  महरूम   अंकित  by Three Dog  रात्रि  (  1969  ) , The  5th  Dimension (  1970  ) , Lou Rawls  ,   फ्रेडी  King ,  पॉल  Weller  ,  Lulu , Chairmen of the Board ( 1970 )  ,   विरल  Earth ,  the   इलेक्ट्रिक  Concept  ऑर्केस्ट्रा   ,   माँ   's   finest  ( 1973 ) ,  the   ओहियो  Players ( 1971 ) ,  डायना  Ross  साथ  the  जैक्सन   5  (  1971   )   ,  Maceo  पार्कर   ,   gladys   नाईट   &   the  Pips  ,   फैली  Panic and  the  Black Crowes .
a  Steel  ढोल  version  by   त्रिनिदाद   आयल   कम्पनी  was reissued on the dancefloor jazz  संकलन  Blue  रस  2  .
It  थी  also featured in  the  2000 film Duets , sung by  huey  Lewis  .
Both the original  और  the  जो   cocker  cover were  प्रदर्शित  in  the   फिल्म  Flight  ,   अभिनीत  Denzel Washington .
देवों  Werkheiser  (  born March 8,1991  )   is  an  अमरीकी  actor ,  आवाज़  actor ,  सिंगर   ,  songwriter and  संगीतकार   ,  best  ज्ञात  for  उसके  starring role as Ned Bigby on the Nickelodeon sitcom Ned  's   declassified  School Survival  मार्गदर्शिका  and  लिये  his role in the 2007 TV  फिल्म  Shredderman  नियम   ,   as  the lead character Nolan Byrd .
Werkheiser  भी   निभाई   पीटर  Parkes  in  the  चौथी  and  फाइनल  season  of  the  एबीसी   परिवार  show Greek  .
Sample  दृश्य   of   an  electronic health record based on  बिंब
नमूना  view  of   an  electronic health  रिकार्ड
an  electronic health  रिकार्ड   (  EHR ) is an evolving  अवधारणा   पारिभाषित  as a systematic collection  of   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   स्वास्थ्य   सूचना  about individual patients  or   populations  .
It is a record in digital format that  is  theoretically  सक्षम   of  being shared across  अलग  health care settings .
in   कुछ  cases this  sharing   can  occur by way of  network-connected  enterprise-wide information systems and other information networks or exchanges .
EHRs may include a  दायरा  of data , including  जनसांख्यिकी   ,   चिकित्सा  history  ,  medication and  allergies  ,  immunization  status ,  प्रयोगशाला   परीक्षण   परिणाम  ,  radiology  images  ,   vital  signs ,  निजी   आंकड़े  like age  और   वज़न  , and billing information .
Loan origination  is   the  process by  जिससे   a  borrower  applies  for a  नई  loan ,  और   a  lender processes  कि   अनुप्रयोग   .
origination  generally  शामिल  all the steps from taking a loan application  up   to  disbursal of funds ( or declining the application ) .
Loan servicing covers  सबकुछ   बाद  disbursing  the  funds  जबतक  the loan is fully  सशुल्क  off .
ऋण   origination   is  a specialized  संस्करण  of new account opening for financial services organizations .
निश्चित  people and organizations specialize  in   ऋण  origination .
Mortgage brokers  और   अन्य  mortgage  originator   कंपनियाँ  serve  as   a   prominent  example  .
वहीँ   हैं   अनेक   अलग  types of loans .
लिये  more  सूचना  on loan types  ,   देखिए  the loan  और   उपभोक्ता  lending articles .
Steps  शामिल   in  originating a loan vary by loan  प्रकार  ,  विभिन्न  kinds of loan  रिस्क   ,  regulator , lender policy  ,   और  other factors  .
Top  बाएँ  : The  टेनेसी  Valley Authority  ,  part of  the   नई  Deal , being  हस्ताक्षरित  into  विधि  in  1933   .
Top  सही  :  फ्रैंकलिन   delano  Roosevelt  ,  who was responsible  लिये  initiatives  और   कार्यक्रम   collectively   ज्ञात  as the  नई  Deal  .
Bottom : A  पब्लिक   भित्ति  from one  of   the  artists  employed  by the New  सौदे   .
The New Deal was a  श्रेणी  of economic programs  enacted   in  the United  राज्य   between  1933 and 1936  .
वे  involved presidential executive orders or laws  passed  by Congress during the  पहला   पद  of  अध्यक्ष  Franklin  D.  Roosevelt .
The programs were in  जवाब  to the  ग्रेट  Depression  ,   और  focused on what historians  कॉल  the ``  3   rs  ''  :   राहत  ,  रिकवरी   ,  and  सुधार  .
That is Relief  लिये  the  बेरोजगार   और   ग़रीब  ;  रिकवरी  of  the  economy  to  normal levels  ;  and Reform of  the  financial  प्रणाली  to prevent  a  repeat depression .
The  नई   सौदे   उत्पादित   a  political realignment  ,  making the Democratic Party the  बहुमत  (  as   खूब   as   the   पार्टी  that held  the  White House  लिये  seven  आउट   of   नौ  Presidential terms from 1933 to  1969  ) , with its base  in   उदार  ideas ,  the  white South  ,   परंपरागत  Democrats ,  बिग   नगर   मशीने  , and  the  newly empowered labor unions  और  ethnic minorities  .
The Republicans  यहूद  split , with  conservatives  opposing the  संपूर्ण   नई  Deal as an  दुश्मन  of  कारोबार  and  विकास   ,  and liberals  accepting   कुछ  of  it  and  होनहार  to make it more efficient .
The realignment crystallized into  the  New Deal Coalition that dominated  सबसे  presidential elections into the  1960s  ,  जबकि  the  विपक्ष  Conservative  गठबन्धन   largely   नियंत्रित   कॉंग्रेस  from  1937   to  1963  .
By 1936  the  term ``  उदार  '' typically  थी  used for  समर्थक  of  the  New  सौदे   ,  and  ``  conservative `` for its opponents  .
From 1934  to  1938  ,   रूज़वेल्ट  was  assisted  in his  endeavours  by  a  “pro-spender” majority in Congress  (   drawn  from two-party , competitive , non-machine , Progressive , and Left party districts ) .
As noted by Alexander Hicks , “Roosevelt ,  समर्थित  by  विरल  , non-Southern Democrat  majorities   —  270 non-Southern Democrat  प्रतिनिधि  and  71  non-Southern Democrat  सीनेटरों  — spelled Second New Deal reform.”
Many historians distinguish between  a  ``  पहला  New Deal  ''  (  1933–34  )  और  a `` Second  नई   सौदे   ''   (  1935–38  )   ,  with the  दूसरी  one  अधिक  liberal and more controversial .
the  ``  पहला   नई   सौदे   ''   (   1933–34  )  dealt  with diverse groups  ,  from banking and railroads to  उद्योग   और  farming  ,   सब   of   जिससे  demanded help  लिये  economic  अस्तित्व  .
the  Federal Emergency Relief Administration  ,  for instance ,  provided  $ 500 million  लिये  relief operations by states  और  cities ,  जबकि  the  short-lived  CWA  (   सिविल  Works Administration ) gave  बस्तियों  money to operate make-work  प्रोजेक्ट  in 1933-34 .
the  `` Second New  सौदे   ``  in 1935–38  शामिल   the   वेगनर  Act to promote  मजदूर  unions ,  the  Works  प्रगति   प्रशासन  (  wpa   )  relief program ( which made the federal  सरकारी  by far the largest  सिंगल   नियोक्ता  in the  स्वदेश  )  ,  the Social Security  अधिनियम  ,  और  new programs to aid tenant  किसानो  and  migrant   मजदूर   .
The final major items of New Deal legislation  यहूद  the  सृष्टि  of the United States  आवास   प्राधिकार   और  Farm  सुरक्षा   प्रशासन  , both in  1937  , and the  मेला  Labor Standards  अधिनियम  of 1938 ,  जिससे   नियत  maximum  घंटों  and  न्यूनतम   मजदूरी   लिये  most  श्रेणी  of workers .
The  आर्थिक   downturn  of  1937–38  ,  और  the  कड़वा  split between the AFL and CIO  मजदूर  unions  led  to major  रिपब्लिकन   gains   in  Congress  in  1938  .
Conservative Republicans and Democrats  in  Congress  joined  in  the  informal Conservative Coalition  .
By  1942–43  they shut down relief programs  ऐसे   as   the   wpa  and CCC and blocked major  उदार   प्रस्ताव   .
Roosevelt himself  turned   उसके   ध्यान   to   the  war  प्रयत्न   ,   और  won  reelection   in   1940  and  1944  .
the   परम्   अदालत  declared the National  रिकवरी  Administration  (   nra  )  और  the first version of the Agricultural Adjustment  अधिनियम  ( AAA ) unconstitutional ,  however   the   aaa   थी  rewritten and then upheld  .
as   the  first  रिपब्लिकन  president elected after FDR , Dwight  D.  Eisenhower (  1953–61  ) left the  नई  Deal largely  बरकरार   ,   भी  expanding it in  कुछ   क्षेत्रों  .
in   the  1960s  ,  Lyndon B. Johnson 's Great Society used  the   नई   सौदे  as inspiration for a  नाटकीय   विस्तार   of  liberal programs  ,  which  रिपब्लिकन  Richard M.  निक्सन   generally   retained  .
बाद   1974  ,  however  ,  the  call  लिये   deregulation  of  the  economy gained bipartisan support  .
The New  सौदे  regulation of banking  (  Glass–Steagall Act ) was suspended  in  the 1990s .
Many New Deal programs remain active  ,  with some  स्टिल   ऑपरेटिंग  under the  असली  names , including the  संघीय  Deposit Insurance  निगम   (  FDIC  )   ,   the  Federal  क्रॉप  Insurance Corporation ( FCIC ) ,  the   संघीय   आवास  Administration  (  FHA )  ,  and the Tennessee Valley  प्राधिकार  (  त्व  )  .
The largest  कार्यक्रम   स्टिल  in existence  आज  are  the  Social Security System  और  the Securities and  एक्सचेंज   आयोग  (  सेक   )  .
a  woman  (  ) , pl  :  women ( ) is a female human .
The  पद  woman is  प्रायः  reserved  लिये   an   वयस्क   ,   साथ  the  पद   लड़की   होने  the usual  पद   लिये  a  मादा   चाइल्ड  or adolescent  .
However  ,  the term woman is  भी  sometimes used to  पहचानो   a  female  इंसान  , regardless of age  ,  as in  वाक्यांश  such  as  `` Women 's  अधिकारों  ``  .
Women  हैं   typically  capable  of   giving  birth  ,   हालांकि   पुरानी  women who  have  gone through menopause and some  intersex   महिलाओं  can not .
``  I Do  n't   want  to  मिस   a   बात   ''  is a song performed  by  American  चट्टान  band  एरोस्मिथ  for the 1998 film  armageddon  .
Written by Diane  वारेन   ,  the song debuted  at  number  एक  on  the   बिलबोर्ड  Hot  100   (   the  first  #   1  for the  बैंड  after 28 years together  )  .
The song stayed at number one  लिये   चार  weeks from  सितंबर  5 to September 26 , 1998  .
the   सोंग   भी   ठहरे  at  क्रमांक  1 for several weeks in several  अन्य  countries .
in  the UK ,  the  song peaked  at   क्रमांक  four , becoming Aerosmith  's  highest  charting  song  in  the UK , where  it  was  the   17th   best-selling  single  of  1998 , and  रै   बेची   over  a million  नक़ल   .
Although not  प्रयुक्त   by  the majority  of  the  संसार   's  countries ,  daylight   छायांकन  time is common  in  the Western  संसार  .
Daylight  छायांकन   समय  ( DST )  —also  summer  समय  in  अंग्रेजों  English — is the practice  of   advancing   घड़ियाँ   दौरान   the  lighter months so that evenings  have   अधिक   daylight  and mornings have  कम  .
typically   घड़ियाँ  are adjusted forward  एक  hour near the start  of   वसन्त  and  हैं  adjusted backward  in  autumn .
the   आधुनिक   विचार   of   daylight   छायांकन  was first  प्रस्तावित  in 1895  by  George  vernon  Hudson and it was first  implemented  during the First World War .
Many  देशों   have  used it  at   विभिन्न  times since then  .
much   of   the   संयुक्त  States used DST in the 1950s  और  1960s  ,   और   dst  use expanded following the  1970s  energy crisis and  रै  been  widely   प्रयुक्त   in   उत्तर  America and  यूरोपीय   चूंकि  then  .
The practice has been both praised and criticized  .
Adding  daylight  to evenings benefits retailing  ,   खेल   ,   और  other activities that exploit  धूप  after  working  hours ,  लकिन  can cause  समस्याएं   लिये   संध्या   entertainment  and other  occupations   tied   to   the  sun  .
Although  an  early  लक्ष्य  of DST was  to  reduce evening  उपयोग   of  incandescent  lighting  ( formerly a primary  उपयोग  of electricity  )   ,   आधुनिक  heating  और  cooling  उपयोग  patterns differ greatly ,  और  research about  कैसा  DST currently affects  उर्जा   उपयोग  is limited  or  contradictory .
DST  क्लॉक   शिफ्ट   उपस्थित   अन्य  challenges  .
They  complicate  timekeeping  ,   और  can  disrupt   बैठक  , travel , billing , record keeping  ,   चिकित्सा  devices  ,  heavy equipment  ,   और  sleep patterns .
तन्त्र  can often  समायोजन   कंप्यूटर   घड़ियाँ  automatically ,  लकिन   इस   can   be  limited  और   error-prone  ,  विशेषकर  when  dst  dates are  बदला   .
Floorplan  of   the  Château  de   montargis
Montargis is  a   कम्यून  in the Loiret  विभाग   in  north-central France  on  the  loing  river .
the   कस्बा  is  स्तिथ  about south of Paris  और  east of  orléans  in the Gâtinais  .
montargis   is  the second  largest  city in the Loiret ,  बाद  Orléans .
it   is   निकट  a large forest , and contains light industry  और   खेती   ,   सहित  saffron .
due   to  its  numerous  canals and  पुलों  ,  montargis  sometimes  बिल्स  itself  as  the ``  वेनिस   of  the Gâtinais .  ''
हालांकि   काफी   आधुनिक   ,  it  retains  a medieval charm in  इसके   शहर  area .
in   कंप्यूटर   भंडार  , a logical unit  क्रमांक  ,  or   lun   ,  is a number used to  पहचानो  a  लॉजिकल   ईकाई   ,   जिससे   is   a   यंत्र   addressed  by the  scsi  protocol or protocols which  encapsulate   scsi  , such  as  Fibre  चैनल   or   iscsi  .
a  LUN may be used  साथ   कोई   यंत्र   जिससे   supports   read/write  operations  ,  such  as  a  टेप  drive , but is most often used to refer  to  a logical disk as  निर्मित  on a SAN .
Though not technically correct  ,  the  पद  `` LUN  ''  is often also  प्रयुक्त   to  refer  to  the logical disk  itself   .
The Gospel According to Mark  (  , , to  euangelion  kata Markon ) ,  commonly  shortened  to   the   इन्जील  of  चिह्नित  or simply  चिह्नित  , is  the  second  किताब  of  the  New Testament  .
This canonical account of  the  life  of  Jesus of Nazareth  is  one  of  the three  synoptic  gospels .
It  थी   विचार  to  be   an   निचोड़   ,  which accounts  लिये   इसके   प्लेस   as  the  दूसरी   इन्जील  in  the   बाइबल  .
however  , most  समकालीन  scholars now regard  it  as the earliest of  the  canonical gospels  (   c   70  )  .
That Mark  थी   प्रयुक्त  as a source  लिये   the   अन्य  synoptic  gospels  Gospel  of  Matthew and  इन्जील  of  ल्यूक  is widely  आयोजित  by many  ,   हालांकि  not  सब   ,  New Testament scholars .
The  इन्जील   of   चिह्नित  narrates  the  Ministry  of  Jesus from his baptism  by  John  the   बैपटिस्ट  to his  मौत  and resurrection .
It  focuses  particularly on the last week of  उसके   जीवन  ( chapters 11–16 ) in Jerusalem  .
इसके  swift  कथा  portrays Jesus as a  वीर  man  of  action  ,  an exorcist , healer and  चमत्कार  worker .
An important  थीम   of  Mark  is  the  मुक्तिदाता  Secret .
यीशु   silences  the demoniacs he  heals  ,  कोशिशें  unsuccessfully to keep his  मुक्तिदाता   पहचान  secret  ,   और  conceals  उसके  message with parables  .
Meanwhile , the disciples fail to  समझे  both  the  implication  of  the miracles of Jesus  और   the  meaning of  the   बाते  he predicts about  उसके  arrest ,  मौत   और  resurrection .
Most scholars believe that the original  टेक्स्ट  of the gospel ends  at  Mark  16:8   साथ   the   डिस्कवरी   of  Jesus ' empty tomb  और   कि   the   following   खाता   of  his resurrection appearances is a  बाद  addition .
according   to  tradition  और   कुछ   जल्दी   गिरिजाघर  writers ,  the  author  is  Mark  the  Evangelist ,  the  companion of  the   apostle   पीटर   .
the  gospel , however  ,   appears   to  rely  on  several  underlying   स्त्रोत   ,  varying in  रूप   और   in   धर्मशास्त्र  , which tells against  the  tradition  कि  the gospel  थी   आधारित  on Peter 's preaching .
the  text is a  संकलन   जिससे  may  शामिल  eye-witness accounts  as  well  as  known  अपोस्टोलिक   preachings  , and  pre-existing  written records  कि  do  नहीं   मौजूद  today but can  be  confirmed  इससे   2nd-century   टीकाकारों  .
कुछ  of  the  stories  in  the  इन्जील   may  have been  transmitted   orally   पहले   होने  written down .
विभिन्न   तत्व  within the  इन्जील  suggest that the author wrote  in  Syria or Palestine  लिये   a   non-jewish   ईसाई  community .
the   रब  of the  बजती   is   an  epic high fantasy  अनोखा  written by English  भाषाशास्त्री  and University  of  Oxford  प्राध्यापक  J. R. R. Tolkien .
The story began as  a  sequel to Tolkien  's  1937 children  's   काल्पनिक   अनोखा   the  Hobbit  ,  but eventually developed  into  a much larger work .
It  थी   लिखा  in stages between  1937   और  1949  ,  much  of   it  during World  युद्ध  II .
it  is the second best-selling novel ever  लिखा  , with over  150  million copies sold  .
The title  of   the  novel refers to the  स्टोरी   's   प्रमुख   विपक्षी  , the Dark Lord  sauron   ,  who had in an  पहले   आयु  created the  एक   रिंग  to rule  the  other  बजती   of  Power as  the  ultimate weapon in his campaign  to   जीतें  and  नियम  all  of   middle-earth   .
From quiet beginnings  in  the  शायर  , a Hobbit land  नहीं  unlike the  अंग्रेज़ी   countryside   ,  the  स्टोरी   सीमाएँ  across north-west  middle-earth   ,  following  the   कोर्स  of the War of the  रिंग   through   the   आँखें  of  इसके  characters ,  notably  the hobbits Frodo Baggins , Samwise `` Sam  ''   gamgee  , Meriadoc `` Merry  ''   brandybuck  and Peregrin  ``   pippin  ''  took   ,  but  भी  the hobbits  '  chief  allies  and  यात्राएं   companions   :  Aragorn  ,  a  इंसान   रेंजर  ; Boromir ,  a   man  from Gondor  ;  Gimli  ,  a  बौना   योद्धा  ;  legolas  ,  an   elven  prince ;  और  Gandalf , a Wizard  .
the  work  थी   initially   intended   by  Tolkien to  be  one volume of  a  two-volume set , with the  अन्य   होने  The  silmarillion  , but  इस   विचार  was dismissed by his publisher .
It was  decided  for  आर्थिक  reasons to publish  the   रब   of  the  बजती  as three volumes  over   the   कोर्स   of  a year from  29  July 1954  to  20 October  1955   ,  thus creating the  अभी  familiar Lord  of  the Rings  त्रयी  .
The three  आयतन  were  हकदार  The Fellowship of  the  Ring , The Two Towers , and The Return of  the   किंग   .
structurally  ,  the  novel is divided internally into six books ,  दो  per  आवाज़  , with several appendices  of   पृष्ठभूमि   सामग्री  included at  the  end of the  तीसरा  volume .
The Lord  of   the  Rings  रै   चूंकि  been  reprinted  numerous times and  अनूदित  into many languages  .
tolkien  's work has been the subject  of  extensive analysis of  इसके   विषयवस्तु   और   origins   .
Although a major work  in   itself   ,  the  स्टोरी  was  तभी   the   पिछला   गति   of   a   larger   एपिक  Tolkien had  worked  on  चूंकि   1917  ,  in   a   प्रक्रम  he described  as  mythopoeia .
Influences on  इस  earlier work  ,   और   on   the   स्टोरी   of  The  रब  of the  बजती  , include philology  ,  mythology , religion  और   the  author 's distaste  लिये  the effects of industrialization  ,  as  खूब   as  earlier fantasy  works  and  tolkien  's experiences in  संसार  War  i  .
the  Lord of  the  Rings in  इसके   फेरे  is considered  to   have   था  a  ग्रेट   प्रभाव  on  आधुनिक  fantasy ; the  प्रभाव  of  tolkien   's   works  is such  कि  the  उपयोग  of the words ``  tolkienian  ''  और   ``   tolkienesque   ''  have been  अंकित  in the Oxford English  शब्दकोष  .
the  enduring popularity  of  The Lord  of  the  बजती  has led to  numerous  references  in  popular  संस्कृति   ,  the founding  of  many societies  by  fans of  tolkien   's   works  , and the publication  of   अनेक   किताबे  about Tolkien and  उसके  works .
The  रब  of  the   बजती  has  प्रेरित   ,  and continues to  inspire  , artwork  ,  music  ,   films  and television  ,  video games ,  और  subsequent literature .
Award-winning adaptations of  the  Lord of  the   बजती  have  महरूम  made for radio ,  थिएटर  , and film  .
The following is an episode list  लिये  the Nickelodeon  sitcom  Drake  &   जोश  .
The series debuted on January 11 , 2004  .
a  TV film Merry Christmas ,  ड्रेक  &  जोश   थी  made  अलावा   इससे   the   नियमित   श्रेणी  on  दिसम्बर   5  , 2008 .
वहीँ  are a total  of  60  एपीसोड   यहूद  produced spanning four  सीज़न  .
Drake  घंटी  ,  जोश   पेक   ,   और  Miranda Cosgrove  यहूद   the   तभी   अभिनेताओं   to  appear  in   सब  60  एपीसोड  .
The San Francisco 49ers conduct training camp  at  the team 's headquarters and  अभ्यास  facility in Santa Clara ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  in August 2010  .
The offense is wearing red  jerseys  with the  एक्सेप्शन  of  क्वार्टरबैक  Alex Smith  ,   जो   is   in  a black jersey ; the defense  in   श्वेत  .
In the  नेशनल   फ़ुटबॉल   लीग   ,   प्रशिक्षण  camp refers to the  समय  before the season  commences  .
During  इस  time , teams will sometimes congregate at an outside location ,  प्रायः  a university ,  to  conduct  प्रशिक्षण  camp for  at   तनिक  the first  few  weeks  .
इस  is  समान   to  baseball 's  वसन्त  training  .
प्रशिक्षण  camp  is   प्रयुक्त   in   अनेक   अलग  ways .
नई   खिलाड़ी  and coaches  उपयोग  it  to  acclimate themselves to new teammates and systems  .
लिये   younger   खिलाड़ी  , it  serves   as   a   काल  of evaluation  ;   लिये   दिग्गजों   ,   it   is  time to round  वापस  into form  .
प्रशिक्षण   शिविर  is divided  into   अनेक  different  components  .
the   पहला   is   scrimmages  .
These  हैं   pseudo-games  where teams run nearly full games '  लायक   of  plays  .
Sometimes ,  दो  practice sessions are held  on   the  same  दिन   .
This  अवधारणा  is referred to as two-a-days .
Other parts of training camp include drills  ,   बैठक   साथ   कोच  and other  खिलाड़ी  at  एक  's position  ,   वज़न  training , and  pre-season   खेल   .
the  latter half of training  शिविर  leads directly into  the  exhibition season .
With NFL  प्रशिक्षण  camps starting in  late-july  , the biggest  चिंता  has  महरूम   निर्जलीकरण  .
In  2001   ,  Minnesota Vikings player Korey  stringer   died  of  a  medical  कंडीशन  based from  निर्जलीकरण  and heatstroke .
the  death  of  Stringer  prompted   the   एनएफएल   to   बदलें   उनके   प्रशिक्षण  policies  .
at  each practice ,  प्रत्येक  team must have  the  team doctor and trainers  on  the  फ़ील्ड  ; additionally , an ambulance must be present during practices  .
साथ   एनएफएल  training camps beginning in late  जुलाई  , severe  मौसम   can   affect   अभ्यास  and exhibition  खेल   .
In  2002  ,  a  Cleveland Browns exhibition  खेल   ended   due   to  lightning  निकट   क्लीवलैंड  Browns  स्टेडियम   ,   और  severe storms have been  ज्ञात  to  disrupt   प्रशिक्षण  camps .
Fans are often able to  विज़िट  their  पसंदीदा  team  's  training  शिविर   to  catch an early  dekh   at  the players ;  प्रवेश  to practices  is   प्रायः  free  or  substantially  कम  expensive than a  खेल   टिकट  ,  बनाना  training  शिविर  trips a popular  विकल्प  for fans who can  नहीं  attend many games due to financial or other reasons .
NFL teams  प्रायः  sell souvenirs and  concessions  at camp sites along with  offering  activities and  कार्यक्रम  to make training  शिविर   a   अधिक  fan-friendly experience .
in   कम्प्यूटिंग  ,  a  file  प्रणाली  ( or filesystem ) is  a   प्रकार   of  data store which can  be  used to  स्टोर  ,  retrieve   और  update  a  set of  फाइलें   .
The term could  refer   to   the  abstract  आंकड़ा   structures   प्रयुक्त  to  define   फाइलें  , or to the actual  तन्त्र   or  firmware  components   कि  implement  the  abstract ideas .
कुछ   संचिका   प्रणालियों  are  प्रयुक्त   on  local  आंकड़ा  storage  डिवाइस  ;  अन्य  provide file  अभिगम   via  a network  प्रोटोकॉल  (  e.g   .  NFS  ,  SMB ,  or  9P  क्लाइंट  ) .
कुछ  file systems are  ``   आभासी   ''   ,  in that the ``  फाइलें  ''  supplied  are  computed   on  request  (  e.g . procfs ) or  हैं  merely a mapping  into  a  अलग  file  प्रणाली  used  as   a   बैकिंग   स्टोर  .
the  file  प्रणाली  manages  अभिगम   to  both the  सामग्री  of files and  the  metadata about  those  files .
It is responsible for arranging storage space  ;   विश्वसनीयता  ,  दक्षता   ,   और  tuning with  लिहाज़  to  the  physical storage medium are important design considerations  .
विलियम   हावर्ड   taft   (  September  15  , 1857  –  March 8 , 1930  )   थी   the  27th President of  the  United States ( 1909–1913 ) and later the  दसवाँ  Chief  इंसाफ  of the United States  (  1921–1930 ) .
He is the  तभी  person to have  परोसा  in  दोनो  of these  कार्यालयों   .
पहले   बनने   अध्यक्ष   ,  Taft ,  a  Republican ,  थी   चयनित  to  serve  on the  श्रेष्ठ   अदालत  of  सिनसिनाटी   in   1887   .
In 1890  ,  Taft was appointed Solicitor General of the United  राज्य   और   in  1891 a judge on the United States Court of  appeals  for the Sixth  सर्किट   .
In  1900   ,   अध्यक्ष  William McKinley  नियुक्त  Taft  governor-general  of the  फिलीपीन  .
In  1904  , President Theodore  रूज़वेल्ट  appointed Taft Secretary of War in  an  effort to  दूल्हे  Taft , then his  बंद   राजनैतिक  ally ,  into  his  handpicked   अध्यक्षीय  successor .
taft   assumed  a  prominent  role  in  problem  solving  , assuming on some occasions the  भूमिका   of  acting Secretary of  राज्य   ,  while declining repeated offers  इससे   रूज़वेल्ट  to  serve  on  the  Supreme Court .
सवारी  a wave of  लोकप्रिय   support  for  fellow   रिपब्लिकन  Roosevelt , Taft won an easy  विजय   in   उसके   1908  bid for the  प्रेसिडेंसी  .
in  his  तभी  term ,  taft  's  घरेलू  agenda emphasized trust-busting ,  सिविल   सेवा  reform , strengthening the Interstate  कॉमर्स  Commission ,  improving  the  प्रदर्शन  of the  डाक   सेवा  , and  ड्योढ़ी   of   the  Sixteenth Amendment .
Abroad  ,  Taft  sought   to   further  the economic  विकास   of   राष्ट्र   in   लैटिन  America and Asia  through   ``  Dollar Diplomacy `` , and showed decisiveness  और  restraint  in  response  to   क्रान्ति  in  मैक्सिको   .
the   task-oriented   taft  was oblivious to the political ramifications  of   उसके  decisions ,  प्रायः  alienated his  अपना   कुंजी  constituencies , and was  overwhelmingly  defeated in his bid for a second term in  the  presidential  चुनाव   of   1912   .
In surveys of presidential  विद्वानों   ,  Taft is usually ranked near  the  middle of lists of all American Presidents  .
After  leaving   दफ्तर   ,  Taft  खर्च  his time  in  academia  ,  arbitration ,  और  the search for world peace  through  his self-founded  लीग   to   enforce  Peace .
In  1921  , after  the   पहला   संसार   युद्ध  ,  अध्यक्ष   वारेन   G.  Harding appointed Taft Chief Justice  of  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
taft  served  in  this capacity until  shortly   पहले  his death in  1930   .
The Ten  आयतें  is a  1956   एपिक   फिल्मी   उत्पादित  and  निर्देशित  by Cecil B. DeMille that dramatized the biblical story of  the  Exodus , in which  the   hebrew-born   मूसा  , an adopted Egyptian prince  ,  becomes the deliverer of the Hebrew slaves  .
It starred Charlton  हेस्टन  in  the   सीसे   भूमिका  , Yul Brynner as his adoptive brother  ,   pharaoh  Rameses II ,  ऐनी  Baxter as Nefretiri , Edward G.  रॉबिन्सन  as Dathan , Yvonne De Carlo as  sephora  ,  डेबरा  Paget  as  Lilia  ,  and  जॉन  Derek  as  Joshua .
The  supporting   डाल   शामिल  Sir Cedric  hardwicke  as Pharaoh Seti I ,  नीना  Foch  as  Bithiah  ,   मार्था   स्कॉट  as  yoshebel  ,  जूडिथ  Anderson as Memnet  ,   विंसेंट  Price  as   baka  , and  जॉन  Carradine  as   आरोन  .
The  फिल्मी  was  released   by   सर्वोपरि  Pictures in  vistavision  on  अक्तूबर  5 ,  1956   .
The Ten Commandments , which  demille  narrated , was the  पिछला   फिल्मी   कि   he  directed  .
He  थी   नियत  to  सीधा  the  1958   रीमेक  of his 1938 film The  buccaneer  , but his  फाइनल   बीमारी   मजबूर   उसे   to   बाज़  the  directing   chores   to  his son-in-law ,  कर्ता  Anthony Quinn .
DeMille had  भी   नियोजित  to  फिल्मी  the life of  रब  Baden  पावेल  , the  संस्थापक  of  the  Scout movement ,  साथ  David Niven ; this project was never  एहसास   .
The  टेन  Commandments  is   a  partial remake  of  DeMille 's  1923  silent film .
Some of the cast and crew of  the   1956  version  worked  on  the   असली   .
It  रै  since  महरूम   remade  as a television  miniseries   ब्रॉडकास्ट   in   अप्रैल   2006  .
The Ten Commandments  is   एक  of the  सबसे   financially   कामयाब  films  कभी  made  ,   grossing  over $ 65 million  at   the  U.S. box  दफ्तर   .
adjusting  for inflation  ,  this makes it the sixth  highest-grossing   फिल्मी   domestically  ,  साथ   an  adjusted total  of   $  1,025,730,000 in 2012 .
The box office website ``  the   संख्याएँ  ''  सूचियाँ  the domestic gross at $ 80  लाख  .
In  1999  , The  टेन   आयतें  was selected for preservation  in   the  United  राज्य   नेशनल  Film  रजिस्ट्री   by  the  पुस्तकालयों  of  कॉंग्रेस  as being ``  culturally  ,  historically   ,   or  aesthetically significant ''  .
In June 2008 , the American Film  संस्थान   नाज़िल  its  ``   टेन  Top  टेन  `` —the best ten  films  in ten  अमरीकी  film genres—after  polling  over 1,500  लोगों  from the  रचनात्मक  community .
The Ten  आयतें  was  सूचीबद्ध  as  the  tenth best film in the epic genre  .
the   फिल्मी   प्राप्त  seven Academy Award nominations  सहित  Best Picture  ,   और  won the Academy Award for Best  विज़ुअल  Effects  .
चार्ल्टन  Heston was nominated for  a   सुनहरी  Globe Award for Best Motion Picture  कर्ता   in  the drama category  .
Yul Brynner  जीती  the National Board of Review  पुरस्कार   लिये   बेहतरीन   कर्ता   लिये  his role  as  Rameses , along  साथ   उसके   अन्य   भूमिकाएँ   in  The King  और   i  and  अनास्तासिया  .
louisville   (   ,  or  )   is   a  major city  और  the  largest  city in the U.S. state  of   केंटकी  and  the  county seat of  जेफरसन  County .
Since 2003 , the city 's borders  have  been with  those  of the  काउंटी   क्युकी  of  a   city-county   विलय   .
The city 's total  संचित  population at  the  2010 census  थी   741,096  ( Louisville  's   संतुलन  total ,  602,011  , excludes semi-autonomous  कस्बों  and is  the   जनसांख्यिकी  listed  in  most sources and  नेशनल   rankings  )  .
As of 2010 , the  louisville  metropolitan area ( MSA )  था  a population of 1,307,647 ranking  42nd  nationally  .
the  metro  क्षेत्रफल  includes Louisville-Jefferson County and 12  surrounding  counties , eight  in   केंटकी   और  four in  दक्षिणी  Indiana ( see Geography below ) .
The  louisville   संयुक्त   सांख्यिकीय   क्षेत्रफल  ,  having   a  population  of  1,451,564  ,   शामिल  the MSA ,  hardin   काउंटी  and  larue   काउंटी  in  केंटकी   ,  and Scott  काउंटी  ,  इंडियाना  .
An  महत्वपूर्ण   आतंरिक   शिपिंग  port in the 19th  सदी   ,  Louisville  आज   is   बेहतरीन   ज्ञात  as  the   स्थान  of the Kentucky Derby ,  the   पहला  of three annual thoroughbred horse races  बनाना   up  the Triple Crown .
A  ठेठ   प्रायोगिक   सेटअप  for  an   aldol   प्रतिक्रिया  .
Both flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone  कूलिंग   नहाना   (   −78   °c   )   the   तापमान  of  जिससे   is   होने   monitored   by  a  तापयुग्म   (   the  wire  on   the  left  )  .
A cooling  नहाना   ,   in   प्रयोगशाला  chemistry (  प्रायः  but  नहीं  always organic chemistry ) practice , is a  द्रव   मिश्रण  which is  प्रयुक्त  to  maintain  low temperatures  ,   typically  between  13  °C  और  −196 °C  .
ये   कम   temperatures   हैं   प्रयुक्त   to   collect  liquids  बाद   आसवन   ,  to  हटाएँ   सॉल्वैंट्स   using  a  रोटरी   evaporator  , or to perform a chemical reaction  नीचे  room temperature (  देखिए  :  गतिज   कंट्रोल  ) .
Cooling  baths  are  generally  one of two types  :  ( a )  a  cold  द्रव  ( particularly liquid nitrogen  ,  water  ,  or even air ) —  लकिन  most commonly  the  term refers  to  ( b )  a  mixture of 3 components : (  1  )  a  cooling agent  (   ऐसे   as   शुष्क   बर्फ  or water ice ) ;  (  b  )   a  liquid  'कैरीr   '  (  ऐसे   as   द्रव   जल   ,   एथिलीन  glycol  ,   एसीटोन  , etc . ) ,  जिससे   हस्तांतरण  heat  between   the   नहाना  and the vessel ; ;  और  (  c   )   an  additive to depress the melting-point of  the  solid/liquid system  .
(  a   परिचित   उदाहरण   of  this  is  the use  of  an ice/rock-salt  मिश्रण   to  freeze  बर्फ   मलाई  .
the  phase-change of ice  into  liquid  जल  requires energy  ,   'pulling  '  ऊष्मा  from the system .
Adding salt lowers  the  temp  at  which this happens  ,  meaning more  उर्जा  has  to  be absorbed  इससे   the  environment in  अनुक्रम   to   melt  the  बर्फ  .
This effectively  makes   the  ice 'colder  '  —  it   जरूर   'pull   '  more heat from its  पर्यावरण  to  become  liquid . )
Eating  विकार  are conditions defined  by  abnormal eating  आदतें   कि  may  involve   either   अपर्याप्त  or excessive food  सेवन  to the detriment  of  an individual  's  physical  और  mental health  .
Bulimia nervosa  और  anorexia  नर्वोज़ा  are  the   सबसे   आम  specific forms in the United  किंगडम  .
Other types of eating disorders  शामिल  binge eating disorder and eating disorder  नहीं  otherwise specified  .
bulimia  nervosa  is  a  विकार   characterized  by binge eating and purging  .
purging  can  शामिल   self-induce  vomiting , over-exercising ,  और   the  usage  of   diuretics   ,  enemas , and  laxatives  .
Anorexia nervosa  is  characterized by extreme  खाना   प्रतिबंध   to  the point of  self-starvation   और   excessive   वज़न   घाटा   .
Though primarily thought of  as  affecting  महिलाओं   (  an  अनुमानित  5–10 million  होने  affected  in  the U.K.  )  ,  खाने  disorders affect males  as  well .
an   अनुमानित  10 – 15  %   of  people with eating  विकार   हैं  males  (  Gorgan , 1999  )   .
(  an  अनुमानित  1 million U.K.  males  being  प्रभावित  ) .
हालांकि  eating  विकार  are  increasing   सब   over   the  world among both men and  महिलाओं   ,   वहीँ  is evidence to  सुझाएँ  that it is women  in   the   पश्चिमी   संसार  who  हैं   at  the  उच्चतम   रिस्क  of developing  उन्हें   और   the   उपाधि  of  westernization  increases  the  risk  .
nearly  half of  सब  Americans  personally   जान  someone with an  खाने   विकार   .
The  कौशल  to comprehend the  सेंट्रल  processes  of  appetite has  increased  tremendously since  लेप्टिन  was discovered  ,  and the skill to observe the functions of the brain as well .
Interactions  between   प्रेरक  ,  homeostatic  and self-regulatory control processes  हैं  involved  in   खाने  behaviour  ,   जिससे  is  a  key  घटक  in  खाने  disorders .
the  precise  कारण   of   खाने  disorders is  नहीं   entirely   समझा   ,  but  वहीँ  is  प्रमाण  that  it  may be linked to other medical  शर्तें  and  परिस्थितियों  .
Cultural  idealization   of  thinness and youthfulness  have  contributed  to  eating disorders affecting diverse populations  .
One study  दिखाया   कि  girls with ADHD  have  a greater chance of getting an eating disorder  than  those  नहीं   प्रभावित  by ADHD  .
Another study suggested that women  साथ   ptsd   ,  especially due  to  sexually related trauma  ,  are more  संभावित  to  develop   एनोरेक्सिया  nervosa  .
One study showed that foster  लड़कियों  are more likely to  develop  bulimia nervosa  .
Some  सोचो  that peer  दबाव  and  idealized   body-types  seen in the  मीडिया   हैं   भी  a significant  फ़ैक्टर  .
Some research show that  लिये   निश्चित   लोगों   वहीँ  are  जेनेटिक  reasons why they  may  be prone to developing  an  eating  विकार  .
हाल   अध्ययन  have found evidence  a  correlation  between  patients with  bulimia  nervosa and  पदार्थ  use disorders  .
in   जोड  , anxiety disorders  और   व्यक्तित्व  disorders are  आम   आवृत्ति   साथ   क्लाइंट  of eating disorders  .
While proper treatment  can   be  highly  प्रभावी  for  अनेक   कष्ट   इससे   विशिष्ट  types  of  eating disorders  ,  the consequences of  खाने  disorders  can  be severe ,  सहित  death ( whether  इससे   सीधा  medical  प्रभाव  of disturbed eating habits or from comorbid conditions such as suicidal  सोच   )  .
गुलामी   in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  existed from  the   जल्दी  years  of   the  colonial period ;  it  was  firmly   स्थापित   by  the time  the  United  राज्य   sought  independence from Great  ब्रिटेन  in 1776  .
However ,  by   1804   ,   सब  states  उत्तर  of the  मेसन   और   डिक्सन   लकीर   था   either  abolished  गुलामी  outright or passed laws for the gradual  abolition  of slavery .
In 1787 Congress  निषिद्ध  slavery in the Northwest Territory .
But  गुलामी   gained  new  जीवन  in the  दक्षिण   साथ  the cotton industry  बाद  1800 ,  और  expanded into  the  Southwest .
The nation was  polarized  into  स्लेव   और  free states along  the  Mason-Dixon  लकीर   ,  which separated Pennsylvania and Maryland .
the   संयुक्त   राज्य  and  ग्रेट  Britain  दोनो   निषिद्ध  the international  स्लेव  trade in 1808 , but the domestic  व्यापार  , with sales to the Deep South , expanded dramatically , and  अनेक  captives were shipped by the coastwise slave  व्यापार  .
Before the 1840s  ,   the  South was vigorously  defending  slavery  और   इसके  expansion into the territories .
In  the  North  कुछ  abolitionists denounced  it  as sinful , and numerous anti-slavery forces  अस्वीकृत  it as detrimental  to  the rights  of  free men  .
After failed compromises  और  Abraham Lincoln 's  चुनाव   ,  in  1861  eleven slave  राज्य  broke away  to   रूप   the  Confederate States of America  ,   अग्रणी  to the American Civil  युद्ध  .
The federal  सरकारी  in 1862 made abolition of slavery a  युद्ध  goal  .
in   जनवरी   1863  President Lincoln freed  स्लेव  in  the   confederacy   through  the Emancipation  उदघोषणा   .
After the war , the Thirteenth Amendment  ,   प्रभावी  December 1865  ,  abolished  गुलामी  throughout  the  entire United States ,  सहित   the   किनारा  states and the  भारतीय  territories .
From  the   16th  to the 19th centuries ,  an   अनुमानित  12 million  africans   यहूद   shipped   as   स्लेव   to  the  americas  .
See  गुलामी   in   the  Americas  .
The great majority went to the sugar  बागानों  of the West  इंडीज  or Brazil , where mortality  थी  high  .
परिचय  645,000  यहूद  brought  to  what is now the United  राज्य   .
By  the  1860  संयुक्त  States Census ,  the  slave population  in  the  अमरीकी  South had  grown  to four million .
Of all  1,515,605  families in  the  15 slave  राज्य   ,   nearly   400,000  held slaves  (   roughly  one in  चार  ) ,  amounting   to  8 % of  सब  American  परिवारों  .
जबकि  some  स्लेव  worked  as   हाउस   बन्दों   और   शहरी  artisans , the great  बहुमत   worked  on plantations  or  large farms , cultivating  lucrative   नकदी  crops  ,  such as  राइस  , tobacco ,  शुगर   और   ,  after 1800 , chiefly  कपास  .
By  1860  most slaves were held  in  the  गहन  South , where they served  in  work-gangs ; two-thirds  worked   in  cotton .
In  छोटी  operations  ,  they worked  साथ  their  स्वामी   .
in  large plantations  वे   यहूद   निर्देशित   by   श्वेत  paid  overseers  .
Under the  प्रणाली  that  became   chattel   गुलामी  (  स्वामित्व  of a human  होने   ,  and  of  his/her descendants )  ,   a  racial  तत्व   थी   आधारभूत  : slaves  यहूद  blacks of  अफ़्रीकी  descent  और   स्वामित्व  , almost  universally  , by whites  of  European descent .
In the 17th century  ,  Virginia  ,  followed  by   अन्य   दक्षिणी  colonies  ,  enacted law that children of slave  माताओं  were born into slavery  .
स्लेव  could  लाभ   स्वतंत्रता  only  by   कार्यशील  away (  जिससे   थी  difficult  और  illegal to  do  )  ,   or  by manumission  by  owners  ,   जिससे  was  regulated  by states  ,   और  became increasingly difficult  or   निषिद्ध   .
in  the earliest  era  of  chattel  slavery ,  the  colonies  भी  organized  कार्य  by a system of bonded  मजदूर  known as indentured  servitude  .
इस  typically lasted for several  सालो  for  दोनो   ग़रीब   europeans  and  africans  alike  ,   to  pay off the  लागत  of  हस्तांतरण  to the colonies .
वे   contracted  for such arrangements because  of   ग़रीब  economies in their home  देशों  .
between  1680 and 1700 , as fewer  europeans  migrated to the colonies  ,   planters  began to import more Africans as slaves  .
Recognizing the  महत्व   of   गुलामी  ,  the   हाउस  of  burgesses   in  Virginia  enacted  a new slave code  in  1705  ;  it combined a variety of legislation and added new provisions  enforcing  white supremacy in the law .
schematic   क्रॉस   खण्ड  of  भाग  of  पत्ता  , xylem  दिखाया  as red  वृत्त  at  फिगर  8  .
Xylem is one  of   the  two types  of   हस्तांतरण  tissue in  vascular  plants  (  phloem is the  अन्य  ) .
The  शब्द  xylem is derived from  the   यूनानी  word  ξύλον  (  xylon   )  ,  अर्थ  ``  लकडी  '' ; the best-known  जाइलम  tissue  is   लकडी   ,  though it is found  throughout  the plant  .
Its  मौलिक   फलन  is to transport water ,  लकिन   it  also transports some nutrients through  the   संयंत्र   .
इस  clock  प्रतिनिधित्व  shows some  of   the   प्रमुख  units of  geological  time and  निर्णायक   कार्यक्रम  of Earth history  .
the  Hadean  इओन   represents   the  time  पहले  fossil  रिकार्ड  of life on Earth ;  इसके  upper boundary is  अभी  regarded as 4.0 Ga ( billion  सालो   पहले  )  .
Other subdivisions reflect  the  evolution of life  ;  the Archean and  proterozoic   हैं  both  eons  ,  the   palaeozoic   ,  Mesozoic and Cenozoic are  eras  of  the  Phanerozoic eon  .
The two million  साल   quaternary   काल   ,   the  time of recognizable humans , is too  छोटी  to be visible  at  this  स्केल   .
the  geologic  समय   स्केल   is  a system  of  chronological measurement that relates stratigraphy  to  time  ,  and  is  used by geologists , paleontologists  ,   और   अन्य  earth scientists  to   describe   the  timing  और  relationships  between  events  कि   have   occurred  throughout  धरती  's history .
The table of geologic time  spans   प्रस्तुत  here  agrees   साथ   the  dates  और   नामकरण   नियत  forth by  the  International  आयोग  on  स्तरिकी   मानक   रंग   कोड  of the International  आयोग   on  Stratigraphy  .
Evidence  इससे  radiometric  डेटिंग  indicates that  the  Earth is  परिचय   4.54   अरब  years  बूढ़ा  .
The geology or deep  समय  of Earth 's  पास्ट  has been organized into various  इकाई  according to events which  took  place in each  काल  .
Different spans  of  time on  the   gts  are  प्रायः  delimited by  परिवर्तन   in  the  संयोजन  of strata  जिससे  correspond to them  ,  indicating major geological or paleontological  कार्यक्रम  , such as mass extinctions .
लिये  example  ,   the  boundary  between  the Cretaceous  काल   और  the Paleogene period  is  defined  by   the  Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event , which  चिह्नित  the  निधन   of   the   dinosaurs   और  many  अन्य  groups of life .
Older time  spans   जिससे  predate the reliable  चट्टान  record  (   पहले  the  proterozoic   इओन  ) are defined  by  absolute  आयु   .
The TI-82  is   a   graphing  calculator made  by  Texas  यंत्र  .
The TI-82  थी  designed  in   1993  as  a  stripped  bas  , more  उपयोक्ता  friendly version  of   the   ti-85  ,  और  as a  बदलना  for the TI-81 .
it   थी  the  सीधा  predecessor of  the  TI-83  .
It  साझा  with the TI-85 a  6   mhz  Zilog  z80  microprocessor  .
Like the TI-81 , the TI-82 features  a  96x64 pixel display ,  और   the   कोर  feature set  of  the TI-81 with  अनेक  new  सुविधाएँ  .
the  cast of  वर्ण   of   the  King  of  Fighters  xi  .
The King of  सेनानी  fighting game series ,  उत्पादित   by  SNK Playmore  ,   शामिल  a wide cast  of   वर्ण  ,  कुछ  of which  हैं  taken  इससे  other SNK games .
The story takes place  in  a  fictional   ब्रह्मांड  in which  an  annual series  of   3-on-3  or  4-on-4   लड़   tournaments  are held  .
The  पहला  game in  the   श्रेणी  introduces the initial  प्रमुख   अक्षर  of  the   श्रेणी  ,  kyo  Kusanagi , a young Japanese fighter who is the heir to a powerful group of martial  कलाकारों  having  pyrokinetic   abilities   .
kyo   झगड़े  against the  kusanagi  clan  's  enemies  ,  his  प्रतिद्वंद्वी  Iori  yagami   ,   और   the  god Orochi and its human  अनुसरणकर्ता  ,  among   अन्य   .
The  पहला  four  खेल  in the series revolve about these fights , while The King of  सेनानी   '99  introduces  a  new story arc  ,  revolving around K ' , a young man  जो  seeks to destroy the  रहस्यमय   nests  organization  क्युकी  they  kidnapped  him at  an   जल्दी   आयु   और  stripped him of  उसके   पास्ट   यादें   ,  so that they  could   फ़ोर्स   उसे  to  be   a   सेनानी  under their  कंट्रोल   .
In The  किंग  of Fighters 2003 , a new  अक्षर  named Ash  crimson   enters  the tournament ,  to   चोरी  the powers  of   the  clans who  sealed  the Orochi  in  the past for an unknown reason .
a  new group  of  antagonists ,  ज्ञात   as  Those From  the  Past , also appears  in   the   श्रेणी   ;   वे  want to obtain  orochi   's  power for  the   purpose  of giving it to their  अनजान  master .
The plot and the  वर्ण   आए   इससे  the  yamata   no  Orochi  लेजेंड   .
वहीँ   हैं  also  अनेक   वर्ण  in the  खेल   कि  are  parodies   or  homages to several popular  दुश्मनी  , manga , and films .
Merchandise based  on  the  वर्ण   रै   भी   महरूम  released , including action  आंकड़े  and keychains .
the   वर्ण   have  garnered praise  इससे  several video  खेल  publications for the  विशेषता  of their  डिजाइन  and movesets .
टिप्पणी  focused on the  कमी   of  improvements in  कुछ  of  the   वर्ण  ,  लकिन  added  कि   the  roster  is  greatly  विविध  .
व्हेल  Wars is a weekly  अमरीकी  documentary-style reality television  श्रेणी   कि  premiered  on   नवम्बर  7  ,  2008 on the  एनिमल   ग्रह   केबल  channel .
The  कार्यक्रम  follows  पॉल  Watson , founder of  the  Sea Shepherd  संरक्षण   समाज   ,   as  he and the crew aboard their  विभिन्न  vessels harass Japanese whalers off the coast  of  Antarctica  .
On  जनवरी  5  ,  2013 , Animal Planet  नवीनीकृत  the  श्रेणी   लिये  a  छठे   ऋतु   .
The  harpy   त्रिभुज  ( Harpia harpyja ) is a  neotropical  species of  त्रिभुज  .
it   is  sometimes  ज्ञात   as  the American Harpy Eagle to distinguish  it  from  the  Papuan Eagle which is sometimes known  as  the  नई  Guinea  harpy   त्रिभुज  or Papuan Harpy  त्रिभुज  .
it  is  the   largest  and most powerful raptor  मिला   in  the Americas , and among the largest  extant  species of eagles  in  the world .
It usually  inhabits  tropical lowland rainforests in  the   अपर  (  emergent  ) canopy layer .
Destruction  of   इसके  natural habitat has seen  it   vanish  from many parts of  इसके  former  दायरा   ,   और   it  is  nearly   extirpated  in Central America .
biological   वर्गीकरण  , or  वैज्ञानिक  classification in  जीवविज्ञान   ,   is  a  विधि   of  scientific taxonomy used to  समूह   और   categorize  organisms into groups  ऐसे   as  genus or species  .
These  समूह  are  ज्ञात  as taxa ( singular : taxon  )  .
Modern biological classification has its  रूट   in   the  work  of  Carolus Linnaeus  ,   जो  grouped species  according   to   साझा  physical characteristics .
ये   groupings   have   चूंकि  been revised  to   improve  consistency with the Darwinian principle of common descent .
साथ  the  परिचय   of   the   cladistic  method in the  लेट   20th   सदी  , phylogenetic taxonomy  in  which  जीवों   हैं   grouped  based purely on  inferred  evolutionary  relatedness   ,   ignoring   morphological   समानता  , has become  आम   in   कुछ  areas of  जीवविज्ञान   .
Molecular phylogenetics  ,  which uses DNA  sequences   as   आंकड़ा  , has also driven  अनेक  recent revisions and  is   संभावित  to continue doing  so   .
Biological  वर्गीकरण   belongs   to  the science of  biological  systematics .
Lennon  's  signature
John  विंस्टन  Ono Lennon ,  (   born  John  विंस्टन   लेनन   ;   9   अक्तूबर  1940  –  8  दिसम्बर   1980  ) was an  अंग्रेज़ी  musician  ,   सिंगर   और   songwriter  who rose to  विश्वव्यापी  fame as  a  founder member of the  बीटल्स   ,  one of  the  most  commercially  successful  और   critically   acclaimed  acts in  the  history of  लोकप्रिय  music .
With Paul  mccartney   ,  he formed  एक   of  the most  मनाये   songwriting  partnerships  of  the  20th  century .
Born and raised in Liverpool  ,  as  a   किशोरावस्था  Lennon became involved  in  the  skiffle   craze   ;  his first  बैंड  , the  quarrymen  ,  विकसित  into  the   बीटल्स   in  1960 .
As the group disintegrated towards the  समाप्त   of   the   दशक   ,  Lennon embarked on a solo  करियर  that produced  the  critically acclaimed  एल्बम   जॉन  Lennon/Plastic Ono Band and Imagine ,  और  iconic songs such as ``  दे  Peace  a   मौका   ``  and `` Imagine `` .
After  उसके  marriage to  योको  Ono in 1969 , he  बदला  his  नाम  to  जॉन   ओनो   लेनन  .
Lennon  disengaged  himself from  the  music  कारोबार  in  1975  to  devote  time  to  raising his  शिशु   बेटे   शॉन   ,  but re-emerged  साथ  Ono  in   1980  with the new  एल्बम   दोगुना  Fantasy .
he  was  murdered   तीन   सप्ताह  after its  रिलीज   .
Lennon revealed a  rebellious   प्रकृति  and acerbic wit in  उसके   म्यूज़िक  , writing , drawings  ,   on  film  और  in  साक्षात्कार  .
विवादास्पद   through   उसके   राजनैतिक  and peace activism  ,   he   स्थानांतरित  to New York  नगर   in  1971  ,  where his  आलोचना  of  the   वियतनाम  War  resulted  in a  lengthy   attempt  by  रिचर्ड  Nixon 's  प्रशासन   to  deport him  ,  while some  of  his songs were adopted  as  anthems by  the   anti-war  movement .
as   of   2012   ,   लेनन   's   सोलो  album  बिक्री   in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  exceed 14  लाख  units  ,  and as writer ,  co-writer  or performer ,  he  is responsible  लिये  25 number-one singles  on   the  US  hot  100  चार्ट  .
in   2002  , a  बीबीसी   पोल  on the 100  महानतम  Britons  voted   उसे  eighth  ,   और  in  2008   ,  Rolling Stone  क्रमित  him the fifth-greatest  सिंगर  of all time .
He was posthumously  inducted  into the  songwriters   हॉल  of Fame in 1987  और   into  the  चट्टान  and  फेंकें  Hall of  कीर्ति  in 1994 .
Statue of Rip van Winkle in Irvington , New York , not  दूर   इससे  `` Sunnyside  ``  ,  the   घर  of Washington Irving
`` Rip Van Winkle '' is a  छोटी  story by American  लेखक  Washington Irving published in 1819  ,  as well  as  the name of the  स्टोरी   's  fictional  समर्थक  .
लिखा  while Irving  थी  living  in  Birmingham , England  ,   it  was  भाग  of  a  collection entitled The Sketch  किताब  of  geoffrey  Crayon .
Although  the   स्टोरी  is  नियत  in  नई   यॉर्क   's   catskill   kyu  , Irving  बाद  admitted , ``  जब   i   लिखा  the story  ,  I  था  never  महरूम  on the  catskills  . ''
Throughout the  fifty-five  year  इतिहास  of  the  Grammy Awards ,  अनेक  significant  रिकॉर्ड  have  महरूम   नियत  .
This  पेज  only includes the competitive  पुरस्कार  won  by  various artists .
इस  does  नहीं   शामिल  the  विभिन्न  special  पुरस्कार   कि  are presented by the  नेशनल  Academy of  रिकॉर्डिंग  Arts and Sciences such as Lifetime Achievement  पुरस्कार  , Trustees  पुरस्कार   ,  Technical Awards  or  Legend Awards .
The page however does include other  non-performance  related  grammys  ( known  as  the  शिल्प  & Production  फ़ील्ड  )  कि   may  have  महरूम   प्रस्तुत  to the  कलाकार  ( s ) .
pee-wee  Herman is a  कॉमिक   fictional   अक्षर  created  और   portrayed  by American  हास्य   पॉल   reubens   .
He  is  best known for his two television  श्रेणी  and  फिल्मी  series during the 1980s .
the  childlike  pee-wee  Herman  अक्षर  developed  as  a stage  अधिनियम  that quickly led  to   an   एचबीओ   खास  in  1981  .
As  the  stage performance  gained  further popularity , Reubens  took  the character to  गति  picture with  pee-wee  's Big  एडवेंचर   in  1985  ,   toning  down the adult  innuendo  for the appeal  of  children .
इस   प्रशस्त  the way  लिये   pee-wee  's  playhouse  , an  एमी   पुरस्कार   जीतना  children 's  श्रेणी   कि   भागा  on CBS  इससे   1986-1991  .
Another film  ,   बिग   शीर्ष   pee-wee  , was  released  in 1988 .
Due to negative media  ध्यान   following  a  कांड   in  1991  ,  Reubens decided  to   shelve   उसके   alter  ego  दौरान   the  1990s  ,  and then gradually resurrected it  दौरान  the following decade  .
It was at  कि   समय  that  reubens  addressed plans to write a new Pee-wee  फिल्मी  ,  pee-wee  's Playhouse  :  The Movie  .
in  June 2007 ,  reubens   appeared  as  pee-wee  Herman for the first  समय   चूंकि   1991  at Spike  tv  's Guys  '  Choice Awards  .
कि   '70s  Show is  an  American  टेलीविज़न  period sitcom  कि  centers  on  the lives of a group of teenage friends living  in  the fictional  suburban  town of Point Place  ,   विस्कॉन्सिन  ,  इससे   may   17   ,   1976   ,  to December  31  , 1979 .
It debuted  on   the  Fox television network ,  पहला   airing  on August 23  ,   1998  ,  कार्यशील   लिये  eight  लगातार  seasons , and concluding  साथ  the 200th episode  on   may  18 , 2006 .
The main teenage cast  सदस्यों  were Topher Grace , Mila Kunis ,  एश्टन   कूचर  , Danny Masterson  ,   लौरा  Prepon  ,  and  wilmer   valderrama  .
The main adult cast  सदस्यों  were  डेबरा  Jo Rupp  ,   kurtwood   स्मिथ  ,  डॉन  Stark and ,  दौरान  the first  तीन  seasons , Tanya Roberts .
कान्सास  (  )   is   a  U.S. state  स्तिथ   in  the  midwestern  United States .
It  is  named after the Kansas River which flows through  it  ,  जिससे  in  फेरे   थी  named after the Kansa Native American tribe  ,  which inhabited the area .
the  tribe 's  नाम   (  natively kką :  ze   )  is  प्रायः  said  to  mean  ``  people  of  the  हवा  ''  or  ``  लोगों   of  the  दक्षिण  wind  ,  '' although this  थी  probably not the  पद   's  original meaning .
Residents of  कान्सास  are  पुकारा  `` Kansans .  ''
For  हज़ारों   of  years  कया   is  now  कान्सास  was home  to  numerous  और   विविध  Native  अमरीकी   जनजातियों  .
जनजातियों   in  the  पूर्वी  part of the state  generally   जिया   in  villages along the  नदी  valleys .
जनजातियों  in the Western part of the state  यहूद  semi-  nomadic   और  hunted  विशाल  herds of  बाइसन  .
कान्सास   थी   पहला   settled  by European  अमेरिकी  in  the  1830s , but  the  pace  of   उपनिवेश  accelerated in the 1850s , in  the  midst of  राजनैतिक  wars  over   the   गुलामी  issue .
When officially opened  to  settlement  by   the  U.S. government in  1854   ,   abolitionist   free-staters  from  नई  England and pro-slavery settlers from  neighboring  Missouri rushed  to  the territory to  determine   if   कान्सास  would become a free  राज्य  or a slave state .
Thus  ,  the area  थी   a  hotbed of violence and chaos in its early  दिनों  as these  शक्तियां   collided   ,  and  थी  known as Bleeding Kansas .
the  abolitionists eventually prevailed and  on   जनवरी  29  ,  1861  ,  Kansas entered  the   संघ  as a free state .
बाद  the Civil War  ,   the  population  of   कान्सास   grew   rapidly   ,  when waves  of  immigrants  turned  the prairie  into   farmland   .
आज  ,  कान्सास  is one of the most productive  agricultural  states  ,  producing high yields of  गेहूं   ,   ज्वार  and  sunflowers  .
Kansas  is  the 15th most extensive and the 33rd most populous of the  50   संयुक्त  States  .
Psychology  is   an  academic and applied discipline  कि   involves  the scientific  पढ़ाई  of  दिमागी   कृत्यों   और  behaviors  .
मनोविज्ञान   रै  the immediate goal  of   समझना  individuals  और  groups  by  both establishing general principles and researching  विशिष्ट  cases ,  और  by many accounts  it  ultimately aims  to  benefit society .
in  this field  ,  a professional  or   शोधकर्ता  is  पुकारा   a   मनोवैज्ञानिक   और  can be classified as  a  social  ,  behavioral  ,   or  cognitive scientist  .
Psychologists attempt to understand  the  role of  दिमागी  functions in  व्यक्तिगत  and social behavior , while  भी  exploring  the   physiological  and  neurobiological  processes that underlie  निश्चित  cognitive  कृत्यों  and  व्यवहार   .
psychologists  explore  अवधारणाओं   ऐसे  as  बोध  , cognition , attention ,  जज्बात   ,  phenomenology ,  प्रेरणा  , brain functioning  ,  personality , behavior , and  interpersonal  relationships .
psychologists   of   विविध  stripes also  consider  the  बेहोश   दिमाग   .
Psychologists employ empirical  विधि  to  infer  causal  और  correlational relationships between  psychosocial  variables .
In addition ,  or  in  विपक्ष  , to employing  अनुभवजन्य  and  निगमनात्मक  methods  ,  some—especially clinical and counseling psychologists—at  टाइम्स   rely  upon  सांकेतिक   निर्वचन   और   अन्य  inductive techniques  .
मनोविज्ञान   रै  been  वर्णित  as a ``  हब   विज्ञान  '' , with  मनोवैज्ञानिक  findings linking  to  research and  perspectives  from  the  social sciences ,  प्राकृतिक  sciences , medicine ,  और   the  humanities  ,  such as  दर्शनशास्त्र   .
While  मनोवैज्ञानिक  knowledge is  प्रायः  applied  to   the   मूल्यांकन  and  उपचार   of  mental  स्वास्थ्य  problems  ,  it is  भी  directed  towards  understanding and solving  समस्याएं  in many  अलग  spheres  of  human activity .
The  बहुमत   of  psychologists  हैं  involved in  कुछ  kind  of   therapeutic  role  ,  practicing in  नैदानिक   ,   counseling  , or school  जमावट  .
Many  do  scientific  शोध  on a  चौड़ी   दायरा   of  topics  सम्बन्धित  to mental  प्रक्रियाओं   और  behavior  ,  and typically work in  विश्वविद्यालयों   मनोविज्ञान  departments  or   सिखा  in  अन्य   अकादमिक  settings (  e.g.   ,  medical schools  ,  hospitals  )   .
Some are employed in  औद्योगिक  and  organizational  settings ,  or  in  अन्य   क्षेत्रों   ऐसे  as human development and  वृद्धावस्था   ,   खेल  , health , and the media  ,  as  खूब  as in forensic  छानबीन  and  अन्य  aspects  of  law  .
Thomas Jefferson ( April 13 , 1743 ( April  2  ,  1743   o.S.   )  –  जुलाई   4  , 1826 ) was an American  founding   पिता   ,  the  प्रिंसिपल  author of  the   घोषणा   of   स्वतंत्रता  (  1776   )  and the third  अध्यक्ष  of  the  United  राज्य  ( 1801–1809  )  .
at  the beginning  of   the   अमरीकी  Revolution ,  he   परोसा  in the  महाद्वीपीय   कॉंग्रेस  ,  representing  Virginia and  तब  served as a wartime  राज्यपाल   of   वर्जिनिया  (  1779–1781  ) .
बस  after the  युद्ध  ended ,  इससे  mid-1784  जेफरसन  served as  a   राजनयिक  ,  stationed  in Paris  .
in   may  1785  ,   he   became  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  Minister to France  .
Jefferson  थी  the  पहला  United  राज्य  Secretary of  राज्य   (   1790–1793  ) serving under  अध्यक्ष   जार्ज   वॉशिंगटन  .
साथ  his close  dost   जेम्स   मैडिसन  he  व्यवस्थित   the  Democratic-Republican Party ,  और  subsequently  resigned  from Washington 's cabinet  .
निर्वाचित   वाइस   अध्यक्ष  in 1796  ,   जब   he  came in second  to  John Adams of the  federalists   ,  Jefferson  opposed   एडम्स   और  with  मैडिसन  secretly  लिखा  the Kentucky and Virginia  रिज़ॉल्यूशन   ,  which attempted to nullify  the   एलियन  and  राजद्रोह  Acts  .
निर्वाचित   अध्यक्ष  in what Jefferson called the Revolution of  1800  , he oversaw the  खरीदें  of the vast  louisiana  Territory  इससे   फ़्रांस  (  1803  ) ,  और  sent the Lewis and  क्लार्क  Expedition  (  1804–1806  )  to  explore  the new west .
His  दूसरी   पद   थी  beset with troubles at  घर  , such as the failed treason  विचारण   of  his former  वाइस  President Aaron Burr .
With escalating trouble with Britain  जो  was  चुनौतीपूर्ण   अमरीकी   neutrality  and threatening shipping at  समुद्र  , he tried economic warfare  साथ   उसके   embargo   कानून  which  तभी   क्षतिग्रस्त   अमरीकी   व्यापार  .
in  1803 ,  अध्यक्ष  Jefferson initiated  a  process of Indian tribal removal and relocation to the Louisiana Territory  वेस्ट   of  the Mississippi River  ,  in order  to  open lands  लिये   eventual  American settlers .
a   नेता   in  the Enlightenment  ,  Jefferson was  a  polymath who  spoke  five  भाषाएं  fluently and  थी  deeply  दिलचस्पी  in science  ,   आविष्कार   ,  architecture  ,  religion and philosophy , interests that led him  to  the  founding  of the  विश्वविद्यालयों   of  Virginia after his  प्रेसिडेंसी  .
He designed his  अपना  large mansion on a 5,000 acre plantation near  charlottesville  , Virginia , which he named  monticello  .
जबकि   नहीं  a notable orator  ,   जेफरसन   थी  a skilled writer and  corresponded  with many influential people in  अमेरिका  and  यूरोपीय   throughout  his  वयस्क   जीवन   .
Though  जेफरसन  owned  अनेक   स्लेव   ,   he  opposed  the   संस्था  all  उसके  life  और  consequently treated and took care  of  them very well and  अपेक्षित  them  to   कार्य   no   अधिक  than free farmers .
Since  1802  historians and  अन्य  have been divided over the controversy of  whether   जेफरसन  was  the  father  of  one  or  more  children  belonging to Sally  hemings  ,  a   स्लेव  at  monticello   .  ''
इतिहासकारों  are also in disagreement with how much Jefferson was committed  to   the   anti-slavery  cause .
In 1807  ,  President  जेफरसन  signed into law  a  bill that banned  the  importation of slaves  into   the  United  राज्य  .
After Martha Jefferson , his  बीवी   of  eleven years  ,  died  in  1782 ,  जेफरसन  remained  a   विधुर   लिये  the rest of  उसके   जीवन  ;  उनके  marriage produced six children , of whom  दो   बच  to adulthood .
Though Jefferson has  महरूम   criticized  by many  आधुनिक  day scholars over  the  issue  of  slavery ,  he  remains  रेटेड  as one of  the  greatest U.S. presidents .
`` Sun  नगर   ''   is   a   1985  protest  सोंग  written  by   स्टीवन  Van Zandt  ,  produced by  वैन  Zandt and Arthur  बेकर  and recorded  by  Artists  संयुक्त   विरूद्ध   रंगभेद  to convey opposition to  the   दक्षिण  African  नीति  of  रंगभेद   .
The  प्राथमिक  means  of  that opposition is  to  declare  कि  all the artists involved would  इंकार  any and  सब  offers  to  perform at Sun City , a resort  जिससे  was located in  bantustan  of Bophuthatswana , one of a  क्रमांक   of   internationally  unrecognized supposed ``  स्वतंत्र   ''   राज्य   निर्मित  by  the  South African  सरकारी  to  forcibly   relocate  its black  जनसांख्यिकी   .
This  पेज  is a list of characters in the Police Academy  फिल्मी  and  टेलीविज़न  series .
विधेयक  Russell  जीती  11 championships  साथ  the Boston Celtics  .
This  is   a  list of  एनबीए  players  साथ  most championships won as a player .
the   नेशनल   बास्केट  Association  (  NBA  )  is a major  पेशेवर  basketball  लीग   in   उत्तर   अमेरिका   .
It  थी   संस्थापित  in  1946   as  the Basketball Association  of  America  (  BAA )  .
the  league  अपनाया   इसके  current name  at   the  start of  the  when  it  merged with  the  National Basketball League  (  NBL ) .
The NBA  फाइनल  is  the   चैंपियनशिप  series  लिये  the NBA and the conclusion of the sport  's  postseason .
The winning  टोली   of  the  श्रेणी   receives  the Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy  .
Players from  the  winning  टोली  usually  प्राप्त  championship  बजती  from the team  honoring  their contribution .
however   ,   in  some rare  अवसर  ,  the  teams opted to  दिया   अन्य   commemorative  items , such as  कलाई  watches , instead  of   बजती  .
the   क्रमांक   of  championships  जीती  by NBA  सुपरस्टार  is  प्रायः  used as  a   मापन   of   उनके  greatness .
Boston Celtics center Bill  रसेल  holds the record  लिये  the most NBA  championships  won with 11  शीर्षक  during  उसके  13-year  playing   करियर  .
he  won his first championship with the  बोस्टन  Celtics in  उसके  rookie  साल  .
Afterwards , he went on to win 10 championships in the  अगला  12 years  ,   सहित   आठ  consecutive championships from  1959  to 1966 .
he  won the last two championships  in  1968 and 1969 as player-coach .
रसेल   's  teammate  ,  Sam Jones  ,  won 10 championships from 1959  to   1969  , the second  सबसे  in  एनबीए  history .
चार   सेल्टिक्स  players , Tom  heinsohn   ,  K.  C.  Jones ,  satch  Sanders and John  havlicek  , won eight  championships  each .
दो  other Celtics  ,   जिम   loscutoff   और  Frank Ramsey  ,   जीती  seven championships each .
Four players , Bob Cousy ,  kareem  Abdul-Jabbar ,  माइकल   जॉर्डन   और   scottie   pippen  , won six championships  प्रत्येक   .
जॉर्डन   और  Pippen  हैं  members  of  the Chicago Bulls team who won  तीन   लगातार  championships  twice   in  the 1990s .
रॉबर्ट  Horry and John  salley  are the only players  to  have won the championships with  तीन   अलग   टीमों   .
horry  won seven championships  साथ   the  Houston Rockets ,  the  Los Angeles  लेकर्स  and the  सैन  Antonio  स्पर्स   ,   जबकि   salley  won four championships with the  डेट्रॉयट  Pistons ,  the   bulls  and the Lakers .
Frank  शाऊल   और  Steve  केर  are  the  only  खिलाड़ी  to win two championships  साथ   दो   अलग  teams in consecutive  सीज़न  .
Saul  जीती   लगातार  championships  साथ  the Rochester  रॉयल्स   और   the   मिनियापोलिस  Lakers  in  the 1950s  ,  while Kerr  जीती   लगातार  championships with  the  Bulls and  the  Spurs in  the  1990s,
सटीकता  indicates proximity of measurement results to the true value  ,  precision  to  the repeatability ,  or  reproducibility of the measurement
In  the   फ़ील्ड  of science  ,  engineering  ,  industry ,  और  statistics ,  the   सटीकता  of a measurement system is the degree  of   निकटता   of  measurements of a quantity  to   कि  quantity 's actual  (  true ) value .
the  precision  of   a  measurement  प्रणाली  ,  भी   पुकारा  reproducibility or  repeatability  , is the degree to which repeated measurements  अंतर्गत  unchanged conditions show  the   वही   परिणाम   .
Although  the  two  शब्द  reproducibility  और  repeatability  can   be  synonymous in colloquial use ,  वे  are  deliberately   contrasted  in the context of the  वैज्ञानिक  method  .
A measurement  प्रणाली  can be accurate  लकिन   नहीं  precise , precise but not accurate  ,   neither   ,  or both .
For example , if  an   प्रयोग  contains  a  systematic error  ,   तब  increasing  the  sample  आकार  generally  increases   परिशुद्धता  but does  नहीं  improve  सटीकता   .
the   परिणाम  would be  a  consistent  yet   inaccurate  string  of  results  इससे   the   flawed  experiment .
Eliminating the systematic  गलती  improves accuracy but does not  बदलें  precision  .
A measurement  प्रणाली   is  designated  मान्य  if  it  is both accurate and  precise   .
Related  शर्तें  include bias ( non-  यादृच्छिक  or directed effects  caused   by  a factor  or   कारकों  unrelated  to   the  independent variable )  और   गलती  ( random variability  )   .
The terminology is  भी   लागू   to  indirect measurements—that  is   ,   मान  obtained by a computational procedure from  observed   आंकड़ा   .
in  addition to accuracy and precision  ,   माप   may  also  have   a  measurement resolution  ,  which is  the  smallest change in the underlying physical quantity that produces  a  response  in   the  measurement  .
in  the case of full reproducibility  ,  such as  जब  rounding a number to  a   representable  floating  पाइंट   क्रमांक   ,  the word  परिशुद्धता  has a meaning  नहीं  related to  reproducibility  .
लिये   उदाहरण  ,  in   the  IEEE 754-2008 standard  it  means the number of  बिट्स  in the significand  ,  so  it   is   प्रयुक्त  as a measure for the  सापेक्ष   सटीकता  with  जिससे   an  arbitrary  क्रमांक   can   be  represented  .
बकवास   in  its literal meaning refers to the  अधिनियम  of sexual intercourse  .
It is an  अंग्रेज़ी  word that is  प्रायः  used as  a   profanity   ,  either  to  denote  तिरस्कार   or   as  an intensifier .
the   उत्पत्ति  of  the   शब्द   is  obscure .
it  is usually considered to  be  first  attested  to around 1475 ,  लकिन  it may  be  considerably older  .
in  modern usage  ,  fuck  और  its derivatives  (   ऐसे  as fucker and  fucking  ) can be used  in  the  स्थिति   of  a noun ,  a   क्रिया   ,  an  क्रियाशील  or  an  adverb .
There are many  आम  phrases  जिससे  make use of  the   शब्द   ,  as  खूब   as   a  number of  यौगिकों   incorporating   it   ,  such as  motherfucker   .
Animated  ,   color-coded   मैप   प्रर्दशित  the various  महाद्वीपों   और  regions .
depending  on  the   सम्मेलन  and  मॉडल  , some  महाद्वीपों  may be  संचित   or  subdivided : for example  ,  Eurasia  is   सबसे  often subdivided  into  Europe and  एशिया   (  red  शेड्स   )   ,  while North  और   दक्षिण   अमेरिका   हैं   sometimes  recognized as  एक  American  महाद्वीप  (  ग्रीन  shades  )  .
a  continent is  एक   of  several  बहुत  large landmasses on Earth  .
वे   हैं  generally  पहचाना  by convention rather  than  any  सख्त   मापदण्ड  , with  up  to  सात  regions  commonly   regarded  as  continents—they  are  (  from  largest  in size to smallest  )  : Asia ,  अफ़्रीकी  , North  अमेरिका  , South  अमेरिका  ,  अंटार्कटिक  ,  यूरोपीय  , and Australia  .
In  भूविज्ञान   ,  continents are  वर्णित  by means  of  tectonic  प्लेटों   .
Plate tectonics  is  the process  और  study of the movement  ,  collision and division  of  continents ,  पहले   ज्ञात  as continental drift .
Biker  बॉयज  is  a   2003  film  परिचय  a group of  भूमिगत   मोटरसाइकिल   खीचें  racers  .
it   सितारों   laurence  Fishburne , Djimon  hounsou  , Derek Luke , Meagan Good  ,   और   larenz  Tate and  is  written  और   निर्देशित  by  reggie  Rock  bythewood  .
it  also  सुविधाएँ  Lisa  bonet   ,  Orlando  जोन्स  , Kid Rock and Vanessa  घंटी  Calloway .
For  the  Steel  पैंथर  song  ,   देखिए  Feel the Steel  .
Community property is a marital  प्रॉपर्टी  regime  कि  originated  in   सिविल   विधि  jurisdictions and  is  now also  मिला  in some  आम   विधि  jurisdictions  .
The  राज्य   of  the  संयुक्त  States  कि  recognize  जातियाँ   प्रॉपर्टी  are  primarily  in the West  ;   it   थी  inherited from  मैक्सिको  's  ganancial   जातियाँ  system ,  जिससे  itself was inherited  इससे   स्पेनी  law ( a Roman  -derived  civil law  प्रणाली   )   और  ultimately  इससे  the  visigoths   .
जबकि  under Spanish  नियम   louisiana  adopted the ganancial community system  of  acquests and  gains  ,  जिससे   replaced   the   परंपरागत   फ्रेंच  community  of  movables and  acquests  in  इसके  civil  विधि  system .
Map  of  the  संयुक्त  States with community property states  highlighted  in red .
In  जोड   to   the  highlighted  राज्य  , Alaska is a separate property state that  permits  couples to  ऑप्ट  into  a  community property arrangement  .
in   a  community  प्रॉपर्टी  jurisdiction ,  सबसे  property acquired  दौरान   the  marriage (  मगर  for  उपहार  or  inheritances  )  —the   जातियाँ  , or communio  bonorum—is   स्वामित्व   jointly  by both spouses  और   is   विभाजित  upon divorce , annulment or death  .
Joint  स्वामित्व   is  automatically  presumed   by  law in  the  absence  of  specific  प्रमाण  that  होता  point to  a  contrary conclusion for  a  particular piece  of  property  .
Division  of  community  प्रॉपर्टी   may  take  प्लेस   by   मद  , by splitting  सब  items or by value  .
in  some jurisdictions , such  as  California  ,   a   50/50  division  of  community property is strictly mandated  by  statute , meaning that the focus  तब  shifts to whether particular items are to be classified as community  or  separate property  .
In other  jurisdictions   ,   ऐसे  as Texas , a  तलाक   अदालत   may   डिक्री   an  `` equitable distribution  ``   of   जातियाँ  property  ,   जिससे  may result in  an   गैरबराबरी   प्रभाग  of such .
In non-community  प्रॉपर्टी  states property may  be  divided  by  equitable  वितरण   .
Generally speaking  ,  the property that  प्रत्येक  partner brings into  the   विवाह  or receives by  तोहफा  , bequest or  मक्कारी   दौरान  marriage is  पुकारा  separate property  (  i.e.  ,   नहीं  community property  )  .
देखिए   प्रभाग   of  property  .
प्रभाग   of  community  debts   may  not be  the   वही  as division  of   जातियाँ  property .
For  उदाहरण   ,  in California ,  जातियाँ  property  is  required to be  विभाजित  ``  बराबर  '' while community debt  is  required to be divided `` equitably  ''  .
प्रॉपर्टी  that is owned  by  one  जीवनसाथी   पहले  the  विवाह   is  the separate  प्रॉपर्टी  of that  जीवनसाथी   ,  unless  the  property  is  `` transmuted  ''   into  community  प्रॉपर्टी   .
The rules  लिये  this vary  इससे  jurisdiction to jurisdiction .
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge waving to the crowd at The  मॉल  shortly  बाद  the wedding  .
The wedding of Prince William ,  ड्यूक  of Cambridge ,  और  Catherine Middleton took  प्लेस  on 29 April  2011   at   वेस्टमिंस्टर  Abbey  in  London  .
the   दूल्हे  ,  प्रिंस  William , Duke of  कैम्ब्रिज  , is the eldest son of  चार्ल्स  , Prince  of   वेल्स   ,  and is  दूसरी  in  the  line of succession  to   the   अंग्रेजों  Throne  और  the thrones  of  fifteen other Commonwealth realms  .
the   बहू   ,  Catherine `` Kate ''  मिडलटन   is  the eldest  of  three children of  माइकल  and  carole  Middleton of  bucklebury   ,  Berkshire .
the   डीन  of Westminster  ,  John Hall ,  presided  at the service ; the Archbishop  of   canterbury  , Rowan  विलियम्स   ,   conducted   the  marriage ; Richard  chartres   ,   the   बिशप  of  लंदन  ,  preached  the  उपदेश   ;  and a reading  थी  given  by  the  बहू   's  brother , James  .
William 's  बेहतरीन  man was his  bhai   ,  Prince Harry ,  जबकि  the bride 's sister ,  पिप्पा  ,  थी  maid  of   इज्ज़त  .
The ceremony was  attended  by the bride 's and groom  's  families , as  खूब  as  अनेक  foreign royals ,  राजनयिकों   ,  and  the   युगल   's   चुनी  personal guests .
बाद  the ceremony , the  युगल  made the  परंपरागत  appearance  on   the  balcony of  बकिंघम  Palace .
As Prince William  थी  not  the  heir  apparent  to  the  throne  ,   the  wedding  थी   नहीं  a  पूरा   राज्य   अवसर   और   अनेक   विवरण  were  बाएँ  to  the  couple to decide , such  as   much  of  the   अतिथि  list of  परिचय  1,900 .
प्रिंस  William  और   केट   मिडलटन  met  in   2001  .
उनके  engagement on  20  October  2010  was announced on 16  नवम्बर  2010 .
The build-up to  the   विवाह  and the  अवसर   itself   आकर्षित   much  media  ध्यान  ,  होने  compared in many  तरीके  with the 1981 marriage of William 's  अभिभावक  .
The occasion  थी  a public holiday in the United  किंगडम  and featured  अनेक  ceremonial aspects ,  सहित   उपयोग   of   the  state carriages and roles  लिये   the  Foot Guards  और   household   प्यादे  .
Events were held  around  the  राष्ट्रमंडल   to  mark the  विवाह   ;  organisations and hotels  आयोजित   कार्यक्रम   आरपार   कनाडा  ,  over   5,000  street parties  यहूद  held throughout the  संयुक्त   किंगडम   ,   और   एक  million people lined the route  between   वेस्टमिंस्टर  Abbey and Buckingham Palace .
The  रस्म  was  viewed  live  by   tens  of  लाखो  more around  the   संसार  , including 72 million on the  youtube  Royal Channel .
in   the  United Kingdom  ,  television audiences peaked at 26.3  लाख  viewers , with a  कुल   of   36.7  million watching part of  the   कवरेज   .
Vanessa  आनन्द  Lachey  (  née Minnillo ; born  नवम्बर  9  ,  1980  )  is an American  टेलीविज़न  personality  ,   टेलीविज़न  host ,  फ़ैशन   मॉडल   ,  and  अभिनेत्री  .
Minnillo was  भी  named  मिस   टीन  USA in  1998  .
She has  महरूम   a  New  यॉर्क  -based correspondent for Entertainment Tonight and  hosted  Total Request Live on MTV  .
A hand ( med .  /  lat  .  : manus  ,  pl  .  manūs  )  is  a  prehensile  ,  multi- fingered  extremity  located at the end  of   an  arm or  forelimb  of primates  और  humans , chimpanzees  ,  monkeys  ,  and  lemurs   .
a   few  other vertebrates such  as   the  koala ( which has two  opposable   thumbs   on  each `` hand ''  और  fingerprints  remarkably   समान  to  इंसान  fingerprints  )   हैं  often described  as   having   either  ``  हैंड्स  ''  or  `` paws  ''  on  उनके   सामने   limbs  .
Hands  हैं   the  main structures  लिये  physically  manipulating   the  environment  ,  used for both gross motor skills  (   ऐसे   as  grasping  a  large  ऑब्जेक्ट   )  and fine  मोटर  skills ( such as picking  up   a   छोटी  pebble ) .
the   उंगलियों  contain  कुछ  of the  densest   क्षेत्रों   of   तंत्रिका  endings on the body  ,  are  the  richest source  of  tactile  प्रतिक्रिया   ,  and have  the  greatest  positioning  capability  of  the body  ;  thus  the  sense  of   टच   is  intimately  संबद्ध   साथ  hands .
Like  अन्य   युग्म   अंगों  ( eyes , feet  ,  legs  )  , each  हाथ  is dominantly  नियंत्रित   by  the opposing brain hemisphere , so  कि  handedness  ,  or  the  preferred  हाथ  choice  लिये  single-handed activities such as  लिखने   साथ   a  pencil ,  reflects  individual brain functioning .
कुछ   विकासवादी  anatomists  उपयोग   the   पद   हाथ   to  refer to  the  appendage of  अंक   on   the  forelimb  अधिक  generally — for  उदाहरण  ,  in  the context of  whether  the three digits of the  बर्ड   हाथ  involved the  वही   समजात   घाटा  of  दो  digits as in  the  dinosaur hand  .
the   इंसान   हाथ  has 27 bones  ,  not including  the  sesamoid bones which number  varies  between  लोगों   .
14 of which  हैं   the  phalanges ( proximal  ,  intermediate  और  distal  )   of  the fingers  .
The  metacarpals  are the bones that connects  the   उंगलियाँ  and the wrist  .
Each human hand has 5  metacarpals  and  8  carpal  हड्डियों  .
Too  कूल  was  a  professional wrestling tag team and  पूर्व   गुट   सबसे   notably   क्रियाशील   in  World Wrestling  federation/entertainment   between  1998  और  2001  और  for a short  समय  in 2004  .
मौलिक   डिजिटल  alarm  क्लॉक  without a radio .
the   चिह्नित   in   the  top-left of the  प्रदर्शक  indicates that the  समय  is 4:00pm  ,  not 4:00am  .
A  1969  radio alarm clock  (   सोनी  Digimatic  8fc-59w  ) with  an   जल्दी   mechanical-digital  display .
a  digital  क्लॉक   is  a  प्रकार  of clock  कि   प्रदर्शक   the   समय  digitally  ,  i.e  .   in   numerals  or  अन्य  symbols , as opposed  to  an analog  क्लॉक   ,   जहाँ  the time is  indicated  by the positions of  घूर्णन   हैंड्स   .
डिजिटल  clocks are often associated with electronic drives  ,  but the  ``  digital ''  वर्णन  refers only  to  the display , not to the drive  यांत्रिकी  .
( Both  एनालॉग  and digital clocks  can   be   चलित  either  mechanically  or electronically ,  लकिन  ``  घटीयंत्र  '' mechanisms with  डिजिटल  displays  हैं   विरल  . )
The biggest digital clock is  the  Lichtzeitpegel  (   ``  Light Time  स्तर  '' ) on the television tower Rheinturm Düsseldorf , Germany  .
Family  guy  creator  सेठ  MacFarlane also provides the voices of Peter  griffin  , Stewie Griffin  ,   ब्रायन  Griffin , and Glenn  कीचड़  .
Family  guy  is an  अमरीकी  animated sitcom  कि  features  पाँच   प्रमुख   आवाज़   अभिनेताओं  ,  और  numerous regular  डाल  and recurring  अतिथि   सितारों  .
the   प्रिंसिपल  voice cast  consists  of  दिखाएँ  creator  सेठ   macfarlane  ,  एलेक्स   borstein  , Seth Green  ,  Mila  kunis  ( who  replaced  Lacey  chabert  after the first  ऋतु  ) and  माइक  Henry and now  ,  the new actor  beau  Osborne  .
पुनरावर्ती  voice actors include  पैट्रिक   warburton   ,  Adam West  ,   जॉन   G.  Brennan , Nicole  सुलीवान   और  Jennifer Tilly  ,  and repeat guest stars  शामिल   फिलिस  Diller , Charles Durning ,  फटाफट   limbaugh   ,  and  फिल   lamarr  .
Many  डाल  members provide voices  लिये  multiple  वर्ण   .
the   आवाज़   अभिनेताओं   ,  in portraying  the   विभिन्न   अक्षर   personalities   on   the  show , draw inspiration  इससे  celebrities and pop culture .
Family Guy  वर्ण   have   महरूम  played by more than one actor ,  बाद  members  of  the  दिखाएँ   बाएँ   the   श्रेणी   or  had conflicting  दायित्वों  .
Kunis was  मनोनीत  for an  एनी  Award  लिये   voicing   मेग  Griffin in the season 5  एपीसोड  `` Barely  विधिक   ``   और  MacFarlane  रै  also  जीती   an  Emmy  पुरस्कार   लिये   बकाया   voice-over  Performance  और  an Annie  पुरस्कार  for Best Voice Acting  in  an Animated  टेलीविज़न  Production  ,  though no other cast  सदस्य  has  जीती  an award for their work on the  श्रेणी  .
The  पाँच  sets of  the  board game  एकाधिकार   चित्रित   यहाँ  show the evolution  of   the  game 's artwork and  डिजाइन   in   the  United  राज्य  from  1935–2005  .
The history of the  फलक   खेल   एकाधिकार   can   be  traced back  to   the  early  20th  century .
the  earliest  ज्ञात   डिज़ाइन   थी  by the American , Elizabeth  magie  , patented in 1904 but  मौजूदा  as early  as   1902   .
Magie  's   असली  intent  थी   to  publish  a   फलक   खेल  to illustrate an economic principle  ,  namely  the  Georgist concept  of  a single land value  कर  .
A series of board  खेल  were developed  इससे  1906  through   the  1930s that involved  the   खरीदे   और  selling  of  land and the  विकास  of that  जमीन  .
by   1934  , a  फलक  game  था  been  निर्मित  much  जैसे  the version  of  Monopoly sold  by   पार्कर   भाइयो  and its related companies  through   the  rest of the  20th   सदी   ,  and  into   the   21st   .
Several people  ,  mostly in  the  Midwestern United  राज्य   और   निकट   the   ईस्ट  Coast  ,   contributed  to the  खेल  's  डिज़ाइन  and evolution .
By the 1970s  ,   the  idea that  the  game had  महरूम   निर्मित  solely  by  Charles Darrow had  become  popular  लोकगीत  ; it  थी  printed in the  खेल  's  निर्देश  for  अनेक  years , in  a  1974 book devoted to Monopoly ,  और  was cited in a  सामान्य   किताब   परिचय  toys even as recently  as  2007 .
भी   a  guide to family games  प्रकाशित  for Reader 's  डाइजेस्ट   in   2003  only  दिया   क्रेडिट  to Darrow and Elizabeth  magie  , erroneously  stating  that  magie   's  original game  थी   निर्मित   in  the 1800s , and not  acknowledging  any of the game  's   विकास  between Magie 's creation of the  खेल   ,  and  the  eventual publication by Parker Brothers  .
Also  in   the  1970s  ,  Professor Ralph  anspach  ,  जो  had himself published a board game intended  to  illustrate the  सिद्धान्त   of  both  monopolies   और   विश्वास  busting , fought  पार्कर  Brothers and its then  जनक  company , General Mills ,  over  the trademarks of the Monopoly board game .
Through the  शोध   of  Anspach and  अन्य  ,  much   of  the early  इतिहास  of  the  game  थी  `` rediscovered '' .
Anspach confronted  maxine  Brady ,  लेखक   of  the 1974  किताब  The  एकाधिकार  Book : Strategy and Tactics of  the  World  's  Most Popular  खेल   over   the   वास्तविक  history  of  the game  on   बैरी  Farber 's New  यॉर्क  City talk  दिखाएँ  in  1975  .
Because  of  the lengthy court  प्रक्रम  ,  सहित   appeals   ,  the legal status  of   पार्कर   भाइयो  '  trademarks   on  the  खेल  was  नहीं  settled until  1985  .
the   खेल  's name  remains  a registered  ट्रेडमार्क   of  Parker Brothers  ,   as   do  its  विशिष्ट   डिज़ाइन   तत्व  .
At  the   निष्कर्ष   of   the   अदालत  case  ,   the  game 's logo  और   ग्राफिक  design  तत्व   became  part of a larger Monopoly  ब्रांड   ,   licensed   by   पार्कर  Brothers ' parent  कंपनियाँ   onto  a  किस्में   of  items  through  the present day  .
despite   the  `` rediscovery ''  of   the   फलक  game  's  early history in the 1970s and  1980s  , and  अनेक  books and journal articles on  the  subject  ,  Hasbro (  पार्कर  Brothers '  वर्तमान  parent  कम्पनी  ) did not acknowledge any of the game 's  इतिहास   पहले  Charles Darrow  on  its  आधिकारिक  Monopoly  जालस्थल   as   recently   as  June 2012  .
nor   किया   हास्ब्रो   acknowledge  anyone other than Darrow in materials published or  प्रायोजित  by them ,  at  least as recently  as  2006  .
International tournaments , first  आयोजित  in the  जल्दी  1970s , continue  to  the present , with the  अगला  world  चैंपियनशिप   संभावित  scheduled for 2013 .
Starting in 1985 , a new  पीढी  of spin-off board  खेल  and card  खेल  appeared  on  both  पहलू  of  the  Atlantic Ocean  .
In 1989 , the first of many video game and computer  खेल  editions  थी  published  .
चूंकि  1994 ,  अनेक  official variants  of  the  खेल   ,  based  on  locations other  than   अटलांटिक  City , New Jersey (  the  official  u.S.  setting ) or London ( the official  राष्ट्रमंडल   सेटिंग   ,  excepting  कनाडा  ) ,  have  been  प्रकाशित  by Hasbro or its licensees  .
in  2008 ,  हास्ब्रो   permanently   बदला   the  color  योजना  and some of the  gameplay   of  the  मानक  U.S  .  Edition of the game  to   मैच  the  uk   संस्करण   ,  although the U.S. standard edition  maintains   the  Atlantic  नगर  property names  .
Hasbro also  परिवर्धित   the  official  लोगो  to give the `` Mr .  एकाधिकार  '' character  a  3-D  computer-generated  look  ,   जिससे  has  चूंकि  been adopted by licensees USAopoly , Winning Moves  और  Winning Solutions .
And  हास्ब्रो   रै   भी  been including the Speed  die   ,  introduced  in   2006  's Monopoly  :   the   आचमन  Edition by Winning  चालें   खेल  , in versions produced directly  by  Hasbro (  ऐसे   as  the  2009  Championship Edition )  .
in  baseball ,  a   बलिदान   मक्खी  is  a  batted ball that satisfies four criteria:
There are fewer  than  two outs  जब   the  ball is  hit  .
The  बॉल  is hit  to  the outfield (  मेला   or  foul )  ,  or  to  infield  बेईमानी   territory  .
The  बैटर  is  put   आउट   क्युकी   an   outfielder   (  or  an   infielder  running  in  the  आउटफील्ड   ,  or  बेईमानी  territory ) catches the  बॉल  on the fly  (  alternatively  if   the  batter would  have  been out  if  not for  an  error  or   if  the  outfielder  drops  the   बॉल  and another runner is  put  out  )   .
A  धावक  who  is   already   on   आधार   स्कोर  on the play  .
it  is called a `` sacrifice  ''  fly because  the  batter  presumably   intends   to  cause  a  teammate  to   स्कोर  a  चलाएं   ,   जबकि   sacrificing  his  अपना  ability to  do  so .
Minnesota  (  ) is a U.S. state located in  the   midwestern  United States .
मिनेसोटा   थी   carved   आउट   of  the  पूर्वी   हाफ  of  the  Minnesota  territory   और  admitted  to  the Union  as  the 32nd state  on  May 11  ,  1858  .
Known as the `` Land  of   10,000  Lakes  ''   ,  the  राज्य   's  name  आता   इससे  a Dakota  शब्द   लिये  ``  sky-tinted  water  ''   .
Those waters , together with  वनों   ,   पार्क  ,  और  wilderness  क्षेत्रों  ,  प्रस्ताव  residents and tourists  a  variety of  बाहरी  recreational opportunities .
मिनेसोटा   is   the   12th  most extensive and the  21st  most  populous  of  the   u.S.  states .
Nearly 60 % of its residents live  in  the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  (  ज्ञात  as the `` Twin Cities  ''  ) , the center of  परिवहन  , business , industry , education , government  और  home to an internationally  ज्ञात  arts community .
The  शेष  of  the  state  consists   of   पश्चिमी  prairies  अभी   दिए  over to intensive agriculture  ;   पतझड़ी   वनों   in   the  southeast ,  अभी  cleared  ,   farmed  and  settled   ;  and the less  आबादी  North  वुड्स  , used  लिये  mining  ,  forestry ,  और   मनोरंजन   .
Minnesota is known for  इसके  relatively mixed  सोशल   और   राजनैतिक  orientations  ,   और   रै  a high  रेट  of  नागरिक  participation  और  voter turnout .
Minnesota ranks among the  healthiest   राज्य  ,  और   रै  a highly literate  जनसांख्यिकी   .
the   विशाल   बहुमत  of residents are  of  Scandinavian  और   जर्मनी  descent  .
the  state is known  as  a  बीच   of  Scandinavian  अमरीकी   संस्कृति  .
Ethnic  विविधता   रै  increased  in  recent decades .
Substantial  influxes  of  एशियाई   ,   अफ़्रीकी  ,  और  Latin American  आप्रवासियों   have  joined  the  descendants  of   यूरोपीय  settlers and the  असली  Native  अमरीकी  inhabitants .
Grants are  non-repayable   निधि   by   एक  party ( grant  makers   )   ,  often a government department  ,  corporation ,  न्यास  or  विश्वास   ,   to  a  ,  often  (   लकिन   नहीं   सदा  ) a nonprofit  एंटिटी   ,  educational  संस्था  , business or  an  individual  .
in   अनुक्रम   to   प्राप्त  a  ग्रान्ट  ,  कुछ   रूप  of  ``  Grant Writing '' often  referred  to as either  a  proposal or an  अनुप्रयोग  is usually  जरूरी  .
Most grants are made to  निधि   a  specific project  और  require  कुछ   स्तर   of   अनुपालन  and reporting  .
the  grant  लिखने  process  involves   an  applicant  submitting  a  प्रस्ताव   (   or  submission  )   to  a  संभावित  funder ,  either  on the applicant  's  own  पहल  or in  जवाब  to  a  Request for  प्रस्ताव   इससे   the  funder .
अन्य   अनुदान  can be given  to  individuals , such as victims  of  natural disasters or  individuals  who  तलाश  to  खोलें   a   छोटी  business  .
sometimes  grant  makers  require grant seekers to have  कुछ  form of  tax-exempt   औकात  ,  be   a   पंजीकृत   nonprofit   संगठन  or a local government .
For example  ,  tiered  funding   लिये  a freeway  हैं  very large grants negotiated at  सरकारी   नीति   स्तर   .
however  smaller grants may be  provided   by  a government  एजेंसी   (  e.g . municipal  सरकारी   )   .
project-related  funding involving governments ,  कारोबार  , communities  ,  and individuals is  प्रायः  arranged  by  application  either  in  लिखने   or   ऑनलाइन  .
Naturally occurring  कोबाल्ट  ( Co  )  is composed of 1  stable  isotope , 59Co . 28  radioisotopes  have been  characterized   साथ  the  सबसे   stable  being 60Co with  a   half-life   of   5.2714  years , 57Co  साथ   a  half-life of  271.79   दिनों  , 56Co  साथ  a half-life of  77.27   दिनों  ,  और   58co   साथ  a half-life of  70.86   दिनों  .
सब  of the  बाकी  radioactive isotopes have half-lives  कि  are  कम   than  18  घंटों   और  the majority  of  these have half-lives that are less  than  1 second  .
This element also  रै   11   मेटा   राज्य   ,   सब   of  which have half-lives less than  15  minutes  .
The isotopes of  कोबाल्ट   दायरा   in  atomic weight from  47co  to 75Co .
The  प्राथमिक  decay mode  लिये   isotopes  with atomic  द्रव्यमान  unit  मान  less  than   कि   of  the  सबसे   abundant  stable  समस्थानिक  ,  59co  ,  is  electron capture and the primary  विधि  of  क्षय  for those of  वृहद  than 59 atomic mass units  is  beta decay  .
The primary decay  उत्पाद  before 59Co are iron isotopes  और  the  प्राथमिक   उत्पाद   बाद   हैं   निकल   isotopes  .
Standard atomic  द्रव्यमान   :  58.933195 ( 5 )  u
Who Moved  my   चीज  ?
An  अद्भुत  Way to  सौदे   साथ  Change  in   अपना  Work and in Your  जीवन   ,  published  in  1998  ,  is a motivational book by  स्पेंसर   जॉनसन  written  in   the   स्टाइल  of a parable or  कारोबार  fable .
it  describes change  in  one 's  कार्य  and life  ,  and four  ठेठ   प्रतिक्रियाएँ   to   कहा   बदलें  by  दो  mice and two  ``  littlepeople '' , during  उनके  hunt  लिये  cheese .
A New  यॉर्क  Times  कारोबार   बेस्टसेलर  since release ,  जो   स्थानांतरित  My Cheese  ?
remained on  the  list  लिये   लगभग  five  सालो  and spent over  200   सप्ताह   on  Publishers  साप्ताहिक  's hardcover  nonfiction  list  .
It has  बेची   अधिक  than  26  million copies  विश्वव्यापी   in   37  languages and  remains   to  be  एक   of  the best-selling business  किताबे   .
निकिता  Sergeyevich  khrushchev  (  –   सितंबर   11   ,   1971  ) led  the   सोवियत   संघ   दौरान  part  of   the   ठंडा   युद्ध  .
He served as  पहला   सचिव  of the  कम्युनिस्ट  Party  of  the Soviet  संघ  from 1953 to  1964   ,  and as Chairman  of  the  परिषद   of  Ministers ,  or  Premier  ,  from  1958  to 1964  .
khrushchev  was  जिम्मेदार  for  the   आंशिक  de-Stalinization of  the  Soviet Union ,  लिये  backing the progress  of  the early Soviet space program  ,   और  for  अनेक  relatively  उदार   reforms  in areas of  घरेलू   नीति  .
Khrushchev 's party colleagues  removed   उसे  from  शक्ति  in  1964   ,   replacing   उसे  with Leonid Brezhnev  as  First Secretary and Alexei Kosygin as Premier .
Khrushchev  थी  born in the  रूसी  village  of   kalinovka  in  1894  , close to the present-day border between Russia  और   युक्त  .
He was employed as a metalworker in his  युवावस्था  ,  और   दौरान  the  रूसी   सिविल  War  थी   a  political commissar .
With the help of Lazar Kaganovich  ,   he  worked  उसके  way up  the   सोवियत   पदानुक्रम   .
He supported Joseph  स्टालिन   's   purges  , and  स्वीकृत   हज़ारों  of arrests  .
in   1939  ,  स्टालिन   भेजा  him to govern Ukraine , and he continued the  purges   वहीँ   .
During what was  ज्ञात   in  the  सोवियत  Union as the Great Patriotic War ( Eastern Front of World War II ) , Khrushchev  थी  again a  commissar   ,  serving as  an   intermediary  between Stalin  और  his generals  .
Khrushchev was  उपस्थित  at the  खूनी  defense of  stalingrad   ,  a fact he  took  great  अभिमान   in   throughout  his  जीवन  .
After the war  ,  he returned to  युक्त  before being recalled to  मास्को  as  एक  of  स्टालिन  's close  advisers   .
in  the  शक्ति  struggle  triggered  by  स्टालिन   's  death in 1953  ,  Khrushchev ,  बाद   अनेक   सालो  , emerged victorious .
On February 25 ,  1956  ,  at   the  20th Party Congress , he delivered the  ``  Secret  वाक  , '' denouncing Stalin 's  purges   और   ushering   in  a  कम  repressive era  in   the  Soviet Union .
His  घरेलू   नीतियों   ,  aimed at bettering the lives  of  ordinary citizens , were often  अप्रभावी   ,   विशेषकर   in  the  क्षेत्रफल  of  कृषि   .
Hoping eventually to  rely   on   मिसाइलें   लिये   नेशनल  defense ,  khrushchev   ordered  major cuts in conventional  शक्तियां   .
despite  the  कटौती  , Khrushchev 's rule saw  the  tensest years  of   the   ठंडा   युद्ध  , culminating  in  the Cuban  मिसाइल  Crisis .
Some  of   khrushchev  's policies were seen  as   erratic   ,  particularly  by  his  उभरते   विरोधियों   ,  who quietly rose  in   शक्ति   और   अपदस्थ  him in October  1964   .
he  did not  suffer  the  घातक  fate  of   कुछ   पिछला   losers  of  सोवियत  power  struggles  ,  लकिन  was  pensioned  off  साथ  an apartment in  मास्को  and a dacha  in  the countryside .
His lengthy memoirs  यहूद  smuggled to  the  West  और   प्रकाशित  in part  in   1970  .
khrushchev   died  in 1971 of heart  बीमारी   .
Upper gastrointestinal ( GI  )  bleeding refers  to  hemorrhage in  the  upper  जठरांत्र  tract .
the   anatomic   cut-off   लिये  upper  gi  bleeding is the ligament of  treitz  ,  जिससे   connects  the  चौथी  portion  of  the  duodenum  to the  diaphragm  near the splenic flexure  of  the colon .
अपर   gi  bleeds are  माना  medical emergencies ,  और   आवश्यकता   प्रवेश  to hospital for urgent  निदान   और  management .
Due to advances in medications  और  endoscopy ,  अपर  GI  hemorrhage   is  now usually  treated   बगैर  surgery .
World population  estimates   इससे   1800   to   2100  ,  आधारित  on UN  2010   projections  (  रेड   ,   नारंगी  , green  )  and  us   जनसांख्यिकी   ब्यूरो  historical  estimates  (  ब्लैक  )  .
Actual recorded population figures are in  ब्लू   .
According to  the   उच्चतम   अनुमान   ,  the world population  may  rise to 16 billion by 2100  ;   according   to  the lowest estimate ,  it  may decline to 6 billion .
The world  जनसांख्यिकी   is  the total number of living  इंसानो  on  धरती  .
as  of today  ,  it is estimated to number  अरब  by  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau ( USCB )  .
The  uscb  estimates that  the  world  जनसांख्यिकी  exceeded 7 billion on  कूच  12  ,  2012  .
according   to   a  separate  अनुमान   by   the   संयुक्त  Nations  जनसांख्यिकी  Fund , it  पहुँचे   इस  milestone  on   अक्तूबर  31 , 2011 .
the   संसार   जनसांख्यिकी  has  अनुभवी   निरन्तर  growth  चूंकि  the  समाप्त  of the  ग्रेट   अकाल   और   the   ब्लैक   मौत  in 1350  ,  when it  stood   at  around  370  million  .
The  उच्चतम  rates  of   विकास   –  global  जनसांख्यिकी   increases   ऊपर   1.8  % per  साल  –  यहूद   देखी   briefly  during  the  1950s , and  लिये  a  longer  period during the  1960s  and  1970s   .
the  growth rate  peaked  at  2.2   %   in  1963 , and  था   अस्वीकृत  to 1.1  %  by 2011 .
Total annual births were highest  in  the late  1980s   at   परिचय  138 million , and are  अभी  expected to remain essentially  निरंतर  at their 2011 level  of  134  लाख  , while  मौतों  number 56  लाख  per year  ,   और   हैं   अपेक्षित   to   बढ़ाएँ  to  80   लाख   प्रति   साल  by 2040  .
वर्तमान  projections  दिखाएँ  a continued  बढ़ाएँ  in  जनसांख्यिकी  in the near  भविष्य  (  लकिन  a steady decline in the population  विकास  rate )  ,   साथ  the global population  अपेक्षित  to  पहुँचें  between 7.5  और   10.5   अरब   by  2050 .
विभिन्न  longer-term estimates predict further growth  ,  stagnation  ,  or even overall  मनाही   in  the  वैश्विक  population  by  2150 .
कुछ  analysts  have   questioned  the sustainability of further  संसार  population  विकास  , citing  the  growing  pressures   on   the   पर्यावरण  , global food supplies ,  और  energy  संसाधन   .
फिलिप्स  Lumileds Lighting  कम्पनी   is   the  manufacturer of a wide range  of  high-power/high-efficiency  light-emitting   diodes  (  leds  )  .
It  is   a  now a fully owned  प्रभाग   of  Philips  lighting   .
knuckle  mnemonic  लिये   the  number of  दिनों   in   प्रत्येक  month  of  the  gregorian   पंचांग  .
प्रत्येक  projecting knuckle  represents  a  31-day   माह   .
A mnemonic  (  , with a  मूक   ``   m   ''  )  ,  or mnemonic device ,  is  any  सीखना  technique that aids information retention .
Mnemonics aim  to  translate information into a form that  the  human brain  can  retain better than its original form .
Even the process  of  applying  इस  conversion might already aid  the  transfer  of  information  to  long-term memory  .
Commonly  encountered   mnemonics  are often for lists and in auditory form , such as short  कविताएं   ,  acronyms , or memorable  वाक्यांश  , but mnemonics can also be for  अन्य  types of information and in visual  or   kinesthetic   फ़ॉर्म   .
Their use is based on  the  observation  कि  the  इंसान   दिमाग  more  easily   remembers   स्थानिक  ,  निजी   ,  surprising  ,  physical  ,  sexual ,  humorous   ,   or   वरना   'relatable  '  सूचना  , rather than more abstract or  impersonal  forms of  सूचना  .
The word  mnemonic  is  निकला   इससे   the   प्राचीन  Greek word  μνημονικός  ( mnēmonikos ) , meaning  ``  of memory '' and  is  related to  mnemosyne  ( `` remembrance ''  )  ,  the   नाम   of   the  goddess  of  memory  in  Greek  mythology   .
Both of  ये  words are  निकला  from  μνήμη  ( mnēmē ) , `` remembrance ,  मेमोरी  ''  .
mnemonics  in antiquity  यहूद   सबसे  often considered in  the   कॉन्टेक्स्ट  of  कया  is  आज  known  as  the  आर्ट   of  memory  .
प्राचीन  Greeks and  romans   विशिष्ट   between  two types  of   मेमोरी  : the 'natural '  मेमोरी  and the  'artificial   '   मेमोरी   .
The  पूर्व   is  inborn  ,   और  is the one  कि  everyone  उपयोग  automatically  और  without thinking  .
the  artificial  मेमोरी  in  कंट्रास्ट  has to  be  trained and  विकसित   through  the learning and  practicing  of  a  variety  of  mnemonic techniques  .
Mnemonic systems  हैं  special techniques  or  strategies consciously  प्रयुक्त   to  improve memory  ,   it   helps  employ  सूचना  already  भंडारित  in  long-term  memory  to   मेक  memorization  an  easier task .
अध्यक्ष  Bush signing the  no  Child Left  पीछे  Act at Hamilton H.S . in  हैमिल्टन  ,  ओहियो  .
the   no  Child Left  पीछे  Act of  2001  ( NCLB  )  is a United  राज्य  Act of Congress that  is   a  reauthorization  of  the  elementary  and Secondary Education  अधिनियम  ,  जिससे  included  शीर्षक  I ,  the  government  's  flagship aid  कार्यक्रम  for disadvantaged students  .
nclb  supports  standards-based   शिक्षा  reform  आधारित  on  the  premise that  सेटिंग   ऊँची  standards  और   establishing  measurable goals can improve  व्यक्तिगत   outcomes   in  education .
The Act requires states  to  develop  आकलन  in basic  कौशल  .
States must  दे  these  आकलन  to  सब   विद्यार्थी  at  चुनें  grade levels in order  to  receive  संघीय   स्कूल  funding  .
The Act  करता  not assert a national achievement standard ;  मानकों  are  नियत  by each individual  राज्य  .
NCLB expanded the  संघीय   भूमिका  in  पब्लिक  education  through   सालाना  testing ,  सालाना   अकादमिक  progress ,  रपट  cards  ,  teacher qualifications , and funding changes  .
The  विधेयक  passed in  the   u.S.   कॉंग्रेस   साथ  bipartisan  support  .
Dodge B Series utility  circa   1950   ,  driven  by   अल्बर्ट   namatjira
A  पिकअप  truck  or   pick-up   ,   प्रायः  simply referred  to   as   a   पिकअप  ,  is   a  light  मोटर   गाडी  with  an  open-top ,  पश्च   कार्गो  area ( bed ) .
In North  अमेरिका  ,  the   पद  pickup is used for  लाइट   ट्रक  with  a  lighter duty chassis and factory built , integrated  bed  ,  as   खूब  as for coupé utility vehicles  ,   प्रायः   आधारित   on   a  personal car chassis , but also often  on  a  खास   समर्पित  chassi for such  उपयोग   .
Some countries have their own terms similar to  पिकअप  ,  ऐसे  as ute in Australia and New Zealand  ,   or  bakkie in South Africa .
Large pickup  ट्रक   हैं  somewhat rare  in  Europe ,  जहाँ  vans and  लाइट   lorries  are  commonly   प्रयुक्त  for similar  भूमिकाएँ   .
This 15th-century depiction of Charlemagne  और   पोप  Adrian  i  shows a well-bred medieval horse with arched  गर्दन  , refined head and elegant gait .
घोड़े  in the  मध्य   आयु  differed in size , build and breed from the  आधुनिक  horse , and  यहूद  , on average , smaller .
They were  भी   अधिक   सेंट्रल  to  समाज  than their modern  counterparts  ,  होने   अनिवार्य  for war , agriculture , and  हस्तांतरण   .
Consequently ,  विशिष्ट  types of  घोड़ा  developed , many of  जिससे   have  no modern equivalent  .
जबकि  an  समझना   of   आधुनिक  horse breeds and equestrianism is  vital   लिये  any  विश्लेषण  of the medieval horse ,  शोधकर्ताओं  also need  to  consider documentary ( both written and  सचित्र  ) and archaeological evidence .
Horses  in   the   मध्य   आयु  were rarely differentiated by breed  ,  but rather  by   उपयोग  .
This  led   उन्हें   to  be described ,  लिये  example  ,   as   ``  chargers  ``  (  युद्ध  horses  )   ,  `` palfreys  ``  (  सवारी  horses  )  , cart horses  or   packhorses  .
Reference is  भी   दिए  to  उनके  place of origin , such  as  `` Spanish  घोड़े   ,   ''  but whether  इस  referred to  एक  breed  or   अनेक   is  unknown .
Another difficulty arising during any study of medieval documents  or  literature is  the   लचीलापन  of  the  medieval languages , where  अनेक   शब्द  can be used for one  बात  (  or  , conversely  ,   अनेक   वस्तुएँ  are referred to  by   एक  word  )   .
Words  ऐसे  as  '  courser '  और  'charger  '  are used interchangeably  (  even within one  दस्तावेज़  ) , and  जहाँ  one epic  may  speak disparagingly of a rouncey , another praises  इसके  skill and swiftness  .
significant  technological advances  in   घुड़सवार   उपकरण   ,  often  introduced  from other cultures , allowed for significant changes in both  warfare  and  कृषि   .
In  particular  , improved  डिजाइन   लिये   the  solid-treed  काठी  as  खूब  as  the   आगमन  of  the  stirrup  ,   नाल  and horse  कॉलर  were significant advances in medieval  समाज  .
नतीजतन  , the assumptions and  theories   विकसित   by  historians are not  निर्णायक  , and  बहस   स्टिल  rages on many issues , such  as  the breeding  or  size of  the   घोड़ा  ,  और   a  number  of   स्त्रोत   जरूर   be   consulted  in order  to  understand  the   विशालता  of the  विषय   .
the  Music  man   is   a   musical   साथ   किताब  ,  म्यूज़िक   ,  and lyrics  by  Meredith Willson ,  आधारित   on   a   स्टोरी   by   willson  and Franklin Lacey .
The  प्लाट  concerns con man Harold Hill , who poses  as   a  boys  '   बैंड   आयोजक   और  leader and sells band instruments and  वर्दी   to  naive townsfolk before skipping town with  the  cash .
in   नदी  City , Iowa , prim librarian and piano teacher Marian Paroo  sees  through him ,  लकिन  when Hill helps  उसके   younger  brother  overcome  his fear of  सोशल  interactions  due  to  उसके  lisp  ,  Marian begins  to   पतन  in love with Harold  .
हेरोल्ड  , in  फेरे  falling  लिये  Marian  ,   risks   होने  caught  to   जीत  her .
in   1957   ,  the show became a  hit  on Broadway ,  जीतना   पाँच   टोनी  Awards , including Best Musical  ,  and running for 1,375  प्रदर्शन  .
The  डाल  album won the first  ग्रैमी   पुरस्कार  for `` Best  असली   डाल  Album  ''  and was number  एक   on   the  Billboard charts  लिये  245  सप्ताह   .
the   दिखाएँ   's   कामयाबी  led to  revivals  and a popular  1962   फिल्मी  adaptation and a  2003   टेलीविज़न   रीमेक   .
it  frequently is produced  by   दोनो   पेशेवर  and amateur  थिएटर  companies .
Surveyor 's wheel
A  निरीक्षक   's   व्हील   ,  also  पुकारा  a clickwheel  ,   hodometer  , waywiser , trundle  व्हील  ,  measuring  wheel  ,  or perambulator is  a  device for measuring distance  .
Largest non-polar  रेगिस्तान
Sand  टीले   in   the  Rub  '   al   खली  (  ``   खाली  quarter ''  )   of   सऊदी   अरब   .
Makhtesh Ramon ,  negev  desert ,  इसराईल
a  desert  is   a  landscape or region of land that  is  very dry  क्युकी  of low  वर्षा   amounts   (  precipitation  )  , often  रै  little  कवरेज  by plants , and  in  which streams dry up unless they are  supplied  by water  इससे   बाहर  areas .
रेगिस्तान   can   भी   be  described as areas where more water is  खोया  by  evapotranspiration   than  falls  as   वर्षण   .
Desert  पौधे   जरूर  have special adaptations to survive with  इस  little water  .
Deserts generally receive less than  25   cm   of   बरसात   (   वर्षण  ) each year  .
Semideserts  or   steppes  are  regions   जिससे  receive between  और   .
in  the Köppen climate  वर्गीकरण  system , deserts are  classed  as  bwh  ( hot desert )  or  BWk  (   शीतोष्ण  desert  )  .
In the  thornthwaite  climate classification system ,  रेगिस्तान  would be classified as arid megathermal climates  .
World War I  (  WWI  )   थी   a   वैश्विक   युद्ध  centred  in  Europe  कि  began  on  28 July 1914  और   lasted   जबतक  11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War  or  the Great  युद्ध  from its occurrence  जबतक  the  प्रारंभ  of World War  ii   in  1939  ,   और  the First  संसार   युद्ध   or  World War  i  thereafter .
it  involved all  the  world 's great powers  ,   जिससे   यहूद  assembled  in   दो  opposing  alliances  : the  allies   (   आधारित  on the Triple  entente  of  the  United  किंगडम   ,  France and  रूस   )   और  the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and  इटली   ;  but ,  as   austria–hungary   था  taken  the  offensive against  the  agreement , Italy  किया  not enter into the war )  .
These alliances were both reorganised  और   विस्तारित  as more  राष्ट्र  entered  the  war : Italy  ,  Japan and the United States  joined  the  allies   ,   और   the  Ottoman  साम्राज्य  and  बुल्गारिया   the   सेंट्रल  Powers  .
ultimately  , more than 70  लाख  military personnel  ,  including 60 million  europeans  ,  यहूद   mobilised  in one  of   the  largest  युद्धों   in   इतिहास   .
More than 9 million combatants were killed ,  largely   क्युकी   of   technological   advancements   कि   led   to  enormous  increases   in   the   lethality   of   हथियार  without corresponding improvements in protection or  गतिशीलता  .
It  थी  the  fifth-   deadliest  conflict in world history  ,  subsequently paving  the   रास्ता  for various political  परिवर्तन  , such as revolutions in  अनेक   of  the nations involved  .
One of the long-term causes of  the   युद्ध  was the  पुनरुत्थान   of  imperialism  in  the  विदेशी  policies of the great  शक्तियां   of   यूरोपीय  .
अधिक  immediately ,  the  assassination of  archduke  Franz  फर्डिनेंड  of Austria , the  वारिस   to  the throne of Austria-Hungary , on  28   जून   1914  by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in  साराजेवो  triggered  a   राजनयिक  crisis  जब  Austria-Hungary subsequently  वितरित  an ultimatum  to   the  Kingdom  of  Serbia .
Several  alliances  formed over the  पिछला  decades were  invoked  .
Within weeks ,  the   प्रमुख   शक्तियां   यहूद  at  युद्ध  and ,  via  their colonies  ,   the  conflict soon spread around the world .
On 28  जुलाई   ,  the Austro-Hungarians fired  the  first  गोलियाँ  of  the  war  as   तैयारी  for  the  invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians  mobilised   ,  the Germans invaded neutral  बेल्जियम  and Luxembourg on the  रास्ता  to France , providing  a  casus belli  लिये   ब्रिटेन  's declaration of war against  जर्मनी  .
After the German  कूच  on Paris was  brought   to  a halt—the  so-called  Miracle of the  marne   —the  Western  सामने   settled  into a  स्थिर  battle of attrition with a trench  लकीर   कि   बदला   छोटी   जबतक   1917   .
On  the   पूर्वी  Front ,  the  Russian army was successful against the  austro-hungarians  , but  थी  stopped  in   इसके  invasion of East  prussia   by  the Germans .
in  November the Ottoman Empire joined  the   युद्ध   ,   खोलने  up  fronts   in  the Caucasus  ,  Mesopotamia and the  sinai  .
Italy and  बुल्गारिया  went to war in 1915 and Romania  in  1916  .
In  रूस   ,  the tsar 's government collapsed in  कूच   1917   और   a   subsequent  revolution in November  brought  the  russians  to  शर्तें  with the Central Powers .
बाद  a 1918  जर्मनी  offensive  साथ  the western  सामने   ,   the   allies   drove  back the Germans  in   a  series  of  successful  offensives  and  अमरीकी  forces began entering the trenches .
Germany  ,  which  था   इसके   अपना  trouble with  क्रांतिकारियों  , agreed  to  an armistice  on  11  नवम्बर  1918 .
The  युद्ध   ended  in  विजय  for the Allies .
कार्यक्रम   on  the home  fronts  were  as  tumultuous as  on  the  बैटल  fronts , as  the   भागीदार  tried to  mobilize  their  जनशक्ति  and economic resources to fight  a   कुल  war .
by   the  end of the  युद्ध  , four  प्रमुख  imperial powers—the  जर्मनी  ,  रूसी  ,  austro-hungarian   और   उस्मानी  empires—ceased  to  exist .
The  successor   राज्य  of  the  former two lost  a   ग्रेट   राशि  of territory  ,  while the latter  दो  were  dismantled  entirely .
the   मैप   of   सेंट्रल  Europe  थी  redrawn  into  several  छोटी  states .
the   लीग   of   राष्ट्र   थी  formed in the  आशा  of preventing another  ऐसे  conflict .
The European  राष्ट्रवाद   शाखित   by  the  युद्ध  and  the  breakup of  empires   ,   the  repercussions  of   जर्मनी   's  defeat and  समस्याएं  with the Treaty of  versailles   हैं  agreed to be factors contributing  to   संसार  War II .
``  Girls Just  want  to  have  Fun  ''   is  a 1979 song originally written  by  Robert  जोखिम  and made  प्रसिद्ध   by   सिंगर  Cyndi Lauper .
It  थी   the  first major single released by Lauper as  a   सोलो  artist and  the  lead-off  सिंगल   इससे   उसके   डेब्यू  album She  's  So  असामान्य  .
lauper’s  version  gained  recognition as a  feminist  anthem  और   प्रचारित   by  an  award-winning   वीडियो  .
It  रै   महरूम   covered  on either  an  album or in  सजीव  concert  by  over 30 other artists .
the  single  थी  Lauper 's breakthrough hit , reaching  #   2   on  the Billboard Hot 100 and  बनने  a worldwide hit  throughout   लेट   1983  and  जल्दी   1984   .
it  remains  एक  of  lauper  's signature songs and was a  widely   लोकप्रिय  song during the era of  इसके  release  ,  the 1980s  .
the  `` Rolling  स्टोन  &  एमटीवी  : '100  महानतम   पॉप  Songs  '   :  1-50 '' , ``  रोलिंग  Stone : `` The  100  Top  म्यूज़िक  Videos ''  ''  and the ``  vh1   :  100 Greatest Videos '' lists ranked  the   सोंग  at  #   22  , # 39  और   #   45   ,   क्रमशः  .
The  सोंग   प्राप्त  a  ग्रैमी  Award nomination  लिये   रिकार्ड  of the Year and Best  मादा  Pop Vocal Performance .
View of  defibrillator  electrode position and placement .
Defibrillation  is  a common treatment  लिये   life-threatening  cardiac dysrhythmias , ventricular fibrillation , and pulseless ventricular tachycardia .
Defibrillation consists  of   delivering  a therapeutic  खुराक  of electrical energy to the  प्रभावित  heart  साथ   a  device called a defibrillator .
This depolarizes a  नाजुक  mass of  the  heart  मांसपेशी   ,   terminates  the dysrhythmia  ,   और  allows  सामान्य   sinus  rhythm  to   be   reestablished   by  the  देह  's natural pacemaker  ,   in  the sinoatrial node  of   the  heart .
defibrillators  can be  बाह्य  , transvenous  ,  or implanted ,  depending  on the  प्रकार   of  device used or needed .
कुछ  external  इकाई  , known  as   स्वचालित   बाह्य  defibrillators  (   aeds   )  ,  automate  the diagnosis  of  treatable rhythms , meaning that  lay   responders  or bystanders  हैं  able to  उपयोग  them successfully  साथ   छोटी   ,  or  in   कुछ  cases  no   प्रशिक्षण  at all  .
the   केटो   संस्थान  is  an   अमरीकी  libertarian  सोचो  tank  headquartered  in Washington  ,  D.C  .
It  थी  founded as  the   चार्ल्स  Koch Foundation in  1974  by Murray Rothbard  ,   ed  Crane  और   चार्ल्स  Koch ,  अध्यक्ष   of  the board  और   मुख्य   कार्यपालिका  officer of  the   संगुटिका  Koch  उद्योग  , Inc. .
In  जुलाई   1976  , the name  थी  changed  to   the   केटो   संस्थान  .
According to the  2011  Global Go To  सोचो   टैंक  Index , Cato is  the   6th   सबसे   influential  US based  सोचो  tank , ranking 3rd in Economic  नीति  and 2nd in Social  नीति   .
The  संस्थान   's  stated mission  is  ``  to   बढ़ाएँ  the  समझना  of  पब्लिक  policies based  on   the  principles  of   सीमित  government ,  फ़्री  markets , individual liberty  ,  and peace .
The Institute  होगा  use  the  most  प्रभावी   अर्थात्  to  originate  ,  एडवोकेट   ,  promote , and  disseminate   लागू   नीति   प्रस्ताव   कि  create free , open , and  सिविल  societies  in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  and  throughout  the  संसार  .  ''
केटो   विद्वानों  were critical  of  George  W.   बुश   's  Republican administration ( 2001–2009 ) on several  मुद्दे  ,  सहित  the Iraq War , civil liberties  ,   शिक्षा  , agriculture , energy  नीति  , and excessive government spending .
on   अन्य   मुद्दे   ,   वे   समर्थित   बुश  administration initiatives , most notably health care ,  सोशल  Security  ,   वैश्विक   वार्मिंग  , tax policy  ,   और  immigration .
During  the  2008 U.S. presidential  चुनाव   ,   केटो  scholars criticized both major-party  उम्मीदवार   ,  John  मैक्केन   और  Barack Obama .
Cato  रै  criticized  अध्यक्ष   ओबामा   's  stances on policy  मुद्दे  since his  उद्घाटन   ,  such as fiscal  stimulus  , healthcare reform ,  विदेशी  policy ,  और  the War on Drugs , while supporting his stance on the  repeal   of   do  n't  पूछो  , Do  n't   बताना  and liberal  आव्रजन   नीति  .
Dracula is an 1897  गोथिक   हॉरर  novel by Irish  लेखक  Bram  स्टोकर   .
प्रसिद्ध  for introducing  the   अक्षर  of  the   पिशाच   गिनती   ड्रैकुला   ,  the novel  tells   the  story  of   ड्रैकुला   's   attempt  to relocate from Transylvania to England ,  और  the  बैटल   between   ड्रैकुला   और   a  small group  of  men and  महिलाओं   led  by  प्राध्यापक   अब्राहम  Van  helsing   .
ड्रैकुला   रै   महरूम  assigned to  अनेक   साहित्यिक   जाति   सहित   पिशाच  literature , horror  fiction   ,  the  गोथिक  novel and invasion literature .
the  novel touches on themes  ऐसे  as  the   भूमिका   of  women in  विक्टोरियन  culture , sexual conventions , immigration , colonialism  ,  and post-colonialism .
Although Stoker did not  इफ़तेरा  the  पिशाच   ,  he  पारिभाषित  its modern  रूप  , and the novel has  शाखित  numerous theatrical  ,  film and television interpretations .
Quidditch  is  a  प्रतिस्पर्धी  sport  in  the  wizarding   संसार  of the  हैरी   कुम्हार  universe  ,  and is from the  श्रेणी  of  children  's novels  और   फिल्मों  .
It  is  an extremely  अशिष्ट  but very  लोकप्रिय   semi-contact  sport ,  निभाई   by  wizards and witches .
मिलान   हैं   निभाई  between two  टीमों  of  सात   खिलाड़ी  riding flying  broomsticks  , using four  गेंदें   और  six elevated ring-shaped goals ,  तीन   on  each side of the  quidditch   पिच  (  फ़ील्ड  ) .
In  the  Harry  कुम्हार  universe , Quidditch holds a fervent following similar to  the  position  कि  association  फ़ुटबॉल   holds  as  a   globally  popular sport  .
The sport is monumental throughout  the  wizarding  संसार  .
हैरी  plays an important  स्थिति  for  उसके   हाउस   टोली   at  Hogwarts : he is  the   seeker  and  becomes  the captain in his sixth year  वहीँ  .
Regional and international competitions are mentioned throughout the  श्रेणी  .
in  Goblet of Fire , Quidditch at Hogwarts is  रद्द  for the Tri-Wizard Tournament  ,  but Harry  और   the  Weasleys attend the  quidditch   संसार  Cup .
In  जोड  , Harry uses his  quidditch  skills to capture a golden egg  इससे   a  dragon  पुकारा   the   हंगेरियाई   horntail  ( in the first task of  the  Tri-Wizard Tournament ) ,  to  capture  a   उड़ती   कुंजी  in Philosopher  's  Stone , and on  दो  key occasions in Deathly Hallows — getting hold of Ravenclaw 's  diadem  ,  और  during the final fight with Voldemort — the `` unerring  कौशल   of  the  seeker   ''   is  useful  to  him in snatching the Elder Wand out of the  एयर  .
हैरी   कुम्हार  has owned  दो  broomsticks , the Nimbus  2000   और  the  firebolt  , both of which are destroyed by the series ' end .
The  खेल   रै  been adopted  in   the  real world  in  the form  of   मगलू  Quidditch .
The United States  कॉंग्रेस  is the bicameral  विधानमंडल  of  the   संघीय   सरकारी   of  the United States consisting of  दो  houses  :   the  lower  हाउस   ज्ञात  as the House  of   प्रतिनिधि  and the upper  हाउस   ज्ञात  as  the   सीनेट  .
Congress meets  in   the   कैपिटल  in Washington , D.C .
दोनो  representatives and  सीनेटरों   हैं   चुनी   through  direct  चुनाव   .
कॉंग्रेस  has  a   कुल  of 535 voting members :  435   सदस्यों  in the House  of  Representatives and 100 members in the Senate .
Members of the House of  प्रतिनिधि  serve  two-year   शर्तें   representing  the people  of  a district .
congressional  districts  हैं  apportioned to  राज्य   by   जनसांख्यिकी   using   the   संयुक्त  States Census results  ,  each state in  the   संघ  having at  तनिक   एक  representative in the House  of  Representatives  .
regardless   of   जनसांख्यिकी  ,  प्रत्येक  of  the  50  राज्य   रै   दो  senators ; the  100   सीनेटरों  each serve  a  six-year  पद  .
The  शर्तें   हैं   लड़खड़ाते  so  प्रत्येक   दो   सालो  approximately  one-third   of   the   सीनेट   is   up  for  चुनाव   .
Each staggered  समूह  of  one-third   of  the senators  हैं  called 'classes ' .
No state of the United States has  दो  senators from  the   वही  class  .
सबसे  incumbents seek re-election  ,  and  उनके  historical  likelihood   of  winning subsequent  चुनावों  exceeds  90  percent .
in  August 2012 , a Gallup  पोल  reported that  congress’s  approval  दरजा  amongst  अमेरिकी  was at  10   %  ,  मिलान  a  38-year  low reached  in   नवम्बर   2011  .
`` A  छोटी  More  देश  Than That  ''  is  the  title of  a   सोंग  written by  जॉय   +   रोरी  's  रोरी   ली  Feek , Wynn Varble , and Don Poythress  ,  and recorded by  अमरीकी  country artist Easton Corbin  .
It was released in  अगस्त  2009  as   कोर्बिन  's debut  सिंगल  and is  शामिल  on  उसके   self-titled   डेब्यू  album .
in  April  2010   ,   the  song  पहुँचे   क्रमांक   एक   on  the  देश  music charts ,  बनाना  Corbin the  पहला  male solo artist in  सात  years to send a debut single to  क्रमांक   एक  .
It  रै  been certified  सुनहरा   by   the   riaa  .
The BlackBerry is  a  line of wireless  हैंडहेल्ड  devices  और  services designed and  marketed  by  शोध   in  Motion  सीमित  ( RIM  )  operating  as   ब्लैकबेरी  .
the  first  ब्लैकबेरी   यंत्र  , an  ईमेल  pager  ,   थी   released  in 1999 ; the  सबसे   हाल  BlackBerry devices ,  the   z10   और   q10  , were announced on January  30  , 2013 .
The  उपयोक्ता  interface varies by model  ;  most feature  a  physical  क्वर्टी  keyboard , while  नए  generations have relied on  a  multi-touch screen and  आभासी   कुंजीपटल  .
A BlackBerry can  shoot  video  ,   लो  photos ,  खेल  music ,  और   perform  online  कृत्यों   ऐसे  as web-browsing  और  emailing  .
They can  भी  send and receive push email  और  instant messages while maintaining a  ऊँची   स्तर  of security through  on-device   संदेश  encryption  ,   और  are  designed   to  function as personal digital assistants  .
BlackBerry devices support a large variety of instant messaging features ,  साथ  the  सबसे   लोकप्रिय   होने  the proprietary BlackBerry Messenger service  .
The BlackBerry  playbook   is  a tablet computer offered  by  the  कम्पनी   .
the  100 millionth  ब्लैकबेरी   स्मार्टफोन  was  shipped   in  June quarter of  2010   और   the  200 millionth  स्मार्टफोन  was shipped  in   सितंबर  quarter of 2012 .
BlackBerry accounts for 3 % of mobile device sales worldwide in 2011  ,   बनाना   इसके   निर्माता   the   छठे   सबसे   लोकप्रिय  device  मेकर  (  25   %  of mobile device  बिक्री   हैं  smartphones ) .
the   उपभोक्ता  BlackBerry Internet Service  is  available in  91   देशों  worldwide  on  over  500  mobile  सेवा  operators using various mobile technologies .
as  of September 2012 , there were eighty  लाख   सदस्य   विश्वव्यापी   to   ब्लैकबेरी   .
in   2011  the Caribbean and  लैटिन  America had the  उच्चतम   penetrations   of   ब्लैकबेरी   स्मार्टफ़ोन   विश्वव्यापी  ,  साथ  up to  परिचय   45   प्रति  cent in the region  having  a RIM  यंत्र   .
BlackBerry , iPhone  ,   एंड्रॉइड   ,   और   खिड़कियाँ   फोन  are considered the four major  स्मार्टफोन  brands .
BlackBerry is widely referred to as `` CrackBerry '' in the United  राज्य   ,   जिससे   alludes  to its  excessive  use  by  its  स्वामी  and is a reference to the  addictiveness   of  crack cocaine .
उपयोग  of  the   पद  CrackBerry became so  फैली  that in November 2006  वेबस्टर   's  New World  कॉलेज  Dictionary named  ``  crackberry  ''  the `` New Word  of  the Year . ''
an   उदाहरण   of   a   माँग  curve shifting  .
The  शिफ़्ट  from  d1  To D2 means  an  increase  in  demand  साथ   consequences  for the other variables
In economics  ,  the demand curve is  the  graph depicting the  संबंध   between   the  price of  a   निश्चित   कमोडिटी  and the amount  of  it that consumers are willing and able to purchase at that  दिए  price .
It is a graphic representation  of  a  माँग  schedule .
The demand curve for  सब  consumers  साथ  follows from the demand  वक्र  of every individual consumer  :  the individual demands at each  दाम   हैं   added   साथ   .
Demand  वक्र   हैं   प्रयुक्त   to   अनुमान  behaviors in  प्रतिस्पर्धी  markets , and  हैं   प्रायः  combined with  सप्लाई   वक्र  to  अनुमान  the equilibrium price  (  the price  at   जिससे  sellers together  हैं  willing to  बेचें   the   वही  amount  as  buyers together  हैं  willing to  ख़रीदे  ,  भी  known as  मार्केट   clearing  price )  और   the  equilibrium quantity (  the  amount of  कि   शुभ  or  सेवा   कि  will be  उत्पादित   और   खरीदा   बगैर  surplus/excess  सप्लाई  or  shortage/excess  demand  )  of that  मार्केट  .
in  a monopolistic market , the demand curve facing the  monopolist   is   बस   the   मार्केट   माँग  curve .
historia
by  Nikolaos Gysis (  1892  )
History ( from Greek -  historia   ,  meaning `` inquiry  ,  knowledge  acquired  by investigation '' )  is  an umbrella  पद  that relates to  पास्ट  events  as  well as the discovery  ,   संग्रहण  ,  संगठन  , and presentation of  सूचना  about these events .
The term includes  लौकिक   ,   भूगर्भिक  ,  और  organic  इतिहास   ,   लकिन   is   प्रायः   generically  implied to  औसत   इंसान  history  .
विद्वानों  who write  परिचय   इतिहास  are called  इतिहासकारों  .
History can also refer  to  the academic  अनुशासन   जिससे   उपयोग  a narrative to  जाँचें  and  analyse   a  sequence of past events ,  और   objectively   determine  the patterns  of  cause  और  effect  कि  determine  उन्हें   .
Historians sometimes  बहस  the  प्रकृति  of history and its  उपयोगिता   by  discussing  the  study  of  the discipline as an  समाप्त   in  itself and  as   a   रास्ता  of providing `` perspective '' on  the  problems  of  the  उपस्थित  .
Stories common  to  a  particular   संस्कृति   ,   लकिन  not supported by  बाह्य  sources ( such as  the  tales surrounding  किंग  Arthur  )   हैं   प्रायः  classified as cultural heritage  or   महापुरूष  ,  क्युकी  they do  नहीं  support the  ``   disinterested   छानबीन   ''   जरूरी  of  the  discipline of  इतिहास  .
Events occurring prior to  लिखा  record  हैं  considered prehistory  .
हिरोडोटस  , a 5th century  b.c   .  Greek historian is considered  भीतर   the  Western tradition to  be  the `` father  of  history '' , and , along with his  समकालीन  Thucydides ,  helped  form the foundations for the  आधुनिक   पढ़ाई  of  इंसान  history .
उनके  work continues  to   be  read  आज  and the divide between  the   culture-focused   हिरोडोटस  and the  military-focused  Thucydides  remains   a   पाइंट   of  contention  or   दृष्टिकोण   in   आधुनिक  historical writing  .
In the  पूर्वी  tradition , a  राज्य  chronicle the Spring and Autumn  annals  was known to be compiled from as  जल्दी  as 722 BCE  हालांकि  only  2nd  century  bce  texts survived  .
Ancient  प्रभाव  have  helped   spawn   रूपांतर  interpretations of the  प्रकृति   of  history  जिससे   have  evolved over  the  centuries and continue to change today .
The modern  पढ़ाई  of  इतिहास  is wide-ranging , and  शामिल   the  study  of   विशिष्ट  regions and the study  of   निश्चित  topical or thematical elements of  ऐतिहासिक   छानबीन  .
Often  इतिहास   is  taught  as   भाग  of  प्राथमिक   और   द्वितीयक  education ,  और   the  academic  पढ़ाई   of   इतिहास   is   a  major discipline in University studies  .
Malcolm X (  ;  May 19  ,   1925february  21  ,   1965  ) ,  born  Malcolm Little  और  also  ज्ञात  as El-Hajj Malik  el-shabazz   (  )  ,   थी  an African-American  मुस्लिम  minister  और  human rights  activist  .
to  his admirers  ,   he  was a  साहसी   एडवोकेट   लिये  the  अधिकारों  of  अश्वेतों  ,  a   man  who  indicted  white  अमेरिका   in  the harshest terms for  इसके  crimes against black Americans .
detractors  accused  उसे   of  preaching  जातिवाद  , black supremacy  ,  and violence  .
He  रै   महरूम   पुकारा  one  of  the  महानतम   और   सबसे   influential  African  अमेरिकी  in history  .
मैल्कम   x   's  father  died—killed  by  श्वेत   supremacists  , it  थी  rumored—when he  थी  young  ,  and at  तनिक  one of his  uncles   थी  lynched .
When he was 13 , his mother  थी  placed in a mental  हॉस्पिटल  ,  और   he  was  लगाई   in   a  series  of   फोस्टर  homes  .
in  1946 ,  at  age  20  , he  गई  to prison  लिये   तोड़कर  and  प्रवेश  .
In prison ,  मैल्कम   x  became a  सदस्य  of the Nation of Islam  ;  after his  पैरोल   in   1952   ,   he  quickly  रोज़   to  become  एक  of  इसके  leaders  .
For a dozen years  ,  Malcolm  x  was the public face  of   the  controversial  समूह  , but  मोहभंग  with  स्वदेश   of   islam  head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the  स्वदेश  in March  1964   .
After  a  period of travel in  अफ़्रीकी  and the Middle  ईस्ट   ,  he  लौटे   to   the  United  राज्य  , where  he   संस्थापित  Muslim  मस्जिदे  , Inc.  और  the  संगठन  of Afro-American Unity .
in   फ़रवरी  1965 ,  कम   than   a  year after leaving  the  Nation of Islam ,  he   थी  assassinated  by  three members of  the   समूह   .
Malcolm X 's expressed  मान्यताओं   बदला  substantially over  समय  .
As  a   प्रवक्ता  for the Nation of  islam   he   सिखाया  black supremacy  और  advocated  विरह  of black and white Americans  —in  contrast  to   the  civil  अधिकारों  movement 's  जोर   on   संयोजन  .
बाद   तोड़कर  with the  स्वदेश  of Islam in  1964—saying  of his association  साथ  it  ,  `` I did many things as  a   [  Black ] Muslim that  i   'm  sorry for now .
i   थी  a zombie  तब  ... pointed  in   a  certain  दिशा  and  बताई  to march ''  —and  becoming a Sunni  मुस्लिम  ,  he  disavowed  जातिवाद  and expressed willingness to work with  सिविल  rights leaders , he continued to  emphasize   pan-africanism  ,  ब्लैक  self-determination ,  और   self-defense  .
Henry Merritt `` Hank  ''  Paulson  ,  Jr. (  born  March 28 ,  1946  ) is an American  बैंकर  who served as  the   74th  United States Secretary  of  the Treasury .
He had served as the  अध्यक्ष  and Chief Executive Officer of Goldman  sachs  ,  और  is  अभी   अध्यक्ष  of  the  Paulson Institute ,  जिससे  he  संस्थापित   in   2011   to  promote sustainable economic  विकास  and a cleaner  पर्यावरण   around   the   संसार  , with an  आरंभिक  focus on the United  राज्य   और   चीन  .
A  आभासी  machine (  vm   )  is a  तन्त्र   implemented   abstraction  of the underlying  हार्डवेयर   ,  which is presented to  the  application  परत  of the  प्रणाली   .
Virtual machines  may  be  आधारित  on specifications  of   a  hypothetical computer  or  emulate  the  computer  वास्तुकला   और  functions of  a   रियल   संसार  computer .
मकड़ियों  ( order  araneae   )   हैं  air-breathing arthropods  कि  have  आठ  legs  और  chelicerae with  fangs   कि  inject  venom   .
They  हैं  the  largest  order of arachnids  और  rank  सातवाँ   in  total species diversity among all other  समूह  of organisms  .
Spiders are found worldwide on every continent except for  अंटार्कटिक  , and have become  स्थापित  in  nearly  every  आवास   साथ  the  एक्सेप्शन  of air  और   समुद्र  colonization  .
As  of   2008  ,  at  least  43,678  spider  प्रजाति   ,   और  109 families have been  अंकित  by  taxonomists  ; however  ,   वहीँ  has been  भ्रम  within the  वैज्ञानिक  community  as  to how all these families should  be   वर्गीकृत  ,  as   evidenced  by  the  over 20  अलग   classifications   कि   have   महरूम   प्रस्तावित   चूंकि  1900 .
anatomically  ,  मकड़ियों  differ  इससे  other  arthropods  in  कि   the  usual  देह  segments are fused  into  two  tagmata   ,   the   cephalothorax   और  abdomen , and  joined   by  a  छोटी  , cylindrical pedicel .
नापसंद   कीट   ,   मकड़ियों   do   नहीं  have  antennae  .
in  all  मगर  the most primitive  समूह  , the Mesothelae  ,  spiders have the  सबसे  centralized nervous  प्रणालियों  of all arthropods ,  as   सब   उनके  ganglia are fused into  एक  mass in  the  cephalothorax  .
नापसंद  most  arthropods  , spiders have no extensor muscles in  उनके  limbs  और  instead  extend  them by  हाइड्रोलिक  pressure  .
Their  abdomens  bear  appendages   कि   have  been modified into  spinnerets  that extrude  रेशा   इससे   up  to six  प्रकार  of  रेशा  glands within their abdomen .
Spider webs vary widely  in   आकार  ,  आकार   और   the   राशि  of  स्टिकी   लड़ी   प्रयुक्त  .
it   अभी  appears  कि  the spiral  orb  web may be one of the earliest forms , and spiders that  उपज  tangled  cobwebs  are more abundant and  विविध  than orb-web spiders  .
Spider-like arachnids  साथ  silk-producing spigots  appeared   in  the Devonian period about , but these animals apparently  lacked   spinnerets  .
सच्चा  spiders  have  been  मिला  in Carboniferous  रॉक्स   इससे   ,  and are very similar to the  सबसे  primitive surviving  अनुक्रम   ,  the  mesothelae  .
The main  समूह   of  modern spiders  ,  Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae  ,   पहला  appeared  in  the  triassic  period , before .
a  herbivorous species  ,  Bagheera kiplingi  ,  was described in 2008  ,   लकिन  all other known  प्रजाति  are predators ,  ज़्यादातर   preying  on insects  और   on  other spiders  ,   हालांकि   a  few large  प्रजाति  also take birds and lizards  .
Spiders  उपयोग   a   चौड़ी  range of  रणनीति  to  कैप्चर   शिकार  : trapping it in sticky webs ,  lassoing  it with sticky  bolas   ,  mimicking the prey to avoid detection , or  कार्यशील  it  bas   .
सबसे  detect  शिकार  mainly by  संवेदन  vibrations  ,  but  the  active hunters  have   अधि  vision  ,   और  hunters of  the  genus Portia show signs of intelligence in their choice of  tactics   और  ability to  develop  new ones  .
मकड़ियों  ' guts  हैं  too  सीमित   to   लो  solids , and  वे   liquidize   उनके  food by flooding  it  with  digestive  enzymes and  पीस   it   साथ  the  bases  of  उनके  pedipalps  ,   as  they  do  not  have   सच्चा   जबड़े   .
Male  मकड़ियों   पहचानो  themselves  by   a  variety  of   जटिल  courtship  संस्कार  to avoid  होने   खाया   by  the females .
Males of  सबसे  species  जीवित  a  few   matings  , limited  मुख्यतः  by  उनके  short life  spans   .
महिलाओं   बुनते   रेशा   egg-cases  ,  प्रत्येक  of which may contain  सैंकड़ों  of eggs .
Females  of   अनेक  species  परवाह   लिये   उनके  young  ,  for example  by   carrying  them  around   or   by   sharing   खाना   साथ  them .
a  minority  of  species are social , building  सांप्रदायिक  webs  कि   may   हाउस  anywhere from  a  few  to  50,000 individuals .
Social behavior  सीमाएँ   इससे   precarious  toleration  ,  as in the widow spiders , to co-operative  शिकार  and food-sharing  .
हालांकि  most spiders  सजीव   लिये   at   सबसे  two years  ,   tarantulas  and  अन्य  mygalomorph  मकड़ियों   can  live  up  to  25  years in captivity .
While the  venom  of a  few   प्रजाति   is  dangerous to  इंसानो  ,  वैज्ञानिकों  are now researching  the   उपयोग  of spider venom in  आयुर्विज्ञान  and as non-polluting pesticides .
मकड़ी   रेशा  provides  a  combination of lightness , strength and elasticity that is superior to that  of  synthetic  सामग्री   ,   और  spider silk genes  have   महरूम  inserted into mammals  और  plants to  देखिए   if   ये  can  be   प्रयुक्त  as  रेशा  factories .
as   a  result of  उनके  wide range  of  behaviors , spiders have become common symbols in art  और   mythology  symbolizing various combinations  of   सब्र  ,  क्रूरता  and creative powers .
Donna Marie Pinciotti  (  Born February 13  ,   1960   )   is  a fictional character  और  one  of  the two female leads in  the   फॉक्स   sitcom  That  '70s   दिखाएँ  ,  appearing  in all eight seasons .
Portrayed  by  Laura Prepon  ,   डोना  is the love interest  to   eric  Forman .
US  काउंटी   household  median income 2009 .
मध्य   us  household  आय   ,  2001-2011
household  income is a measure  commonly   प्रयुक्त  by the United States government and  निजी  institutions .
प्रत्येक  household  is  measured  by  the income of  प्रत्येक   निवासी  over the age  of   15   .
Income includes wages  और  salaries , unemployment  बीमे  ,  विकलांगता  payments , child  support  payments  प्राप्त   ,  regular rental receipts ,  as   खूब  as  कोई   निजी  business  ,  investment  ,  or other kinds of income  प्राप्त   routinely  .
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real ''  )   household   आय  had been  increasing  almost every year  इससे   1945  to 1999 ,  it  has since  महरूम  flat  और  even  decreased  recently  .
U.S. median household income  गिरी   इससे   $  51,144 in 2010  to  $  50,502  in 2011  .
Extreme poverty in  the  United States , meaning  households  living on  कम  than $  2  per  दिन  before government  लाभ  ,  doubled  from 1996  to  1.5 million  households   in   2011   ,  including 2.8 million children .
The residents of the  household   do  not  have   to  be  सम्बन्धित  to the head  of  the  household  for their earnings to be considered part of the household  's   आय  .
As  households  tend  to  share a  समान  economic  कॉन्टेक्स्ट  ,  the   उपयोग  of household income  remains  among  the   सबसे   widely  accepted measures of income .
That the size of  a  household is not  commonly  taken  into  account  in   ऐसे  measures  may  distort  कोई  analysis of fluctuations within  or  among the  household  income  श्रेणी   ,  and  may  render direct  comparisons  between  quintiles  difficult  or  even  नामुमकिन  .
a  registered agent ,  भी  known  as  a resident  एजेंट  or statutory  एजेंट   ,  in United States business law , is  a  business or  व्यक्तिगत  designated  to   प्राप्त  service of process ( SOP ) when a business  एंटिटी  is a  पार्टी  in a legal  कार्रवाई   ऐसे   as  a  मुकदमा  or summons .
the  registered agent  's  address may  भी   be   जहाँ   the   राज्य  will send the  कागजी  for  the   वार्षिक   नवीकरण   of   the   कारोबार  entity 's charter .
The  पंजीकृत  agent  लिये   a  business entity  may  be  an  individual member  of  the company  ,   or  (  अधिक  often ) a third party  ,  such  as  the organization 's lawyer  or  a service company .
Failure to properly  maintain  a registered agent can affect a  कम्पनी  negatively .
Office  लिये   आपात  Management .
दफ्तर  of War Information  युद्ध  poster  1941   -   1945
``  Life , Liberty  ,   और  the pursuit of  सुख  ''  is  a  well-known   phrase   in  the United States Declaration of  स्वतंत्रता  .
the  phrase  is   meant  to  exemplify  the  ``   unalienable  rights ''  साथ  which all  इंसान  beings  हैं   endowed   by  their  निर्माता   लिये   उनके   सुरक्षा  of  जिससे   वे  institute governments  .
तलवारबाजी  , is  typically   विभाजित   into  Olympic fencing ,  शास्त्रीय  fencing and  ऐतिहासिक  fencing  ,   .
The sport of  तलवारबाजी   (  commonly  पुकारा  olympic fencing or competitive  तलवारबाजी  )  is   विभाजित   into   तीन   हथियार  categories :  foil   ,  sabre and épée  .
शास्त्रीय   तलवारबाजी   उपयोग   the   वही   तीन  weapons , but  approaches  fencing  as   a  martial art .
Competitive Fencing  is  one of  पाँच  sports  जिससे  has  महरूम  featured  at  every one of the modern  ओलम्पिक   खेल  , the other  चार   होने   एथलेटिक्स  , Cycling  ,  Swimming ,  और  Gymnastics .
the  quadriceps  femoris  ( Latin for  ``   four-headed  muscle  of  the  femur  `` ) , also called simply the quadriceps  ,   quadriceps   extensor  , quads  ,   is   a  large muscle  समूह  that includes  the  four prevailing muscles on the  सामने  of  the   जांघ   .
It  is  the great  extensor  muscle  of   the   घुटना  ,  forming   a  large fleshy mass which covers the front and sides of the  femur  .
The proper Latin plural  रूप   of  the adjective quadriceps would be  quadricipites  .
In  आधुनिक  English usage , quadriceps  is   प्रयुक्त  in both  एकवचन   और   बहुवचन   .
The  एकवचन  form quadricep , produced by  hypercorrection   ,  is  अक्सर  used  .
RMS Titanic  थी  a British passenger  लाइनर   कि   sank  in  the  North Atlantic Ocean on 15 April 1912 after  colliding   साथ   an   हिमशैल  during her maiden voyage  इससे  Southampton  ,   uk  to  नई  York City , US  .
The  डूब   of  Titanic caused the deaths of 1,502 people in  एक   of  the deadliest  peacetime   मेरीटाइम  disasters  in  modern  इतिहास  .
The  rms   टाइटैनिक  was the largest ship  afloat  at  the  time  of   उसके  maiden voyage .
वो   थी   the   दूसरी   of  three Olympic class ocean liners  संचालित   by   the   श्वेत   स्टार  Line  ,  and she  थी  built  by   the   harland  and  wolff  shipyard in Belfast with  थामस  Andrews  ,  who perished  साथ   the  ship  ,  as her  नवल   वास्तु   .
on  her  maiden  voyage  ,  she  carried  2,224  यात्री  and crew .
अंतर्गत   the   कमांड  of Edward  स्मिथ  , her passengers  शामिल  some of the wealthiest people in the  संसार   ,   as  well  as  hundreds of  emigrants   इससे   ग्रेट  Britain and  आयरलैंड   ,  Scandinavia  और  elsewhere  throughout  Europe seeking a new life in North America .
the   जलयान  was designed to  be   the  last word  in  comfort and luxury , with an  on-board   gymnasium  , swimming  पूल  , libraries  ,   high-class  restaurants  और   opulent  cabins .
She  भी  had  a  powerful wireless  टेलीग्राफ   provided  for the convenience of passengers  as   खूब   as  for  operational  use .
हालांकि  she had advanced safety features such as  watertight   compartments   और   remotely  activated  watertight  doors , she lacked  पर्याप्त   lifeboats   to  accommodate  सब   of  those aboard .
Because of outdated maritime  सुरक्षा  regulations  ,  she carried  तभी  enough lifeboats for  1,178   people—slightly   अधिक  than half  of   the   क्रमांक  travelling on the maiden voyage ,  और   one-third   उसके   कुल   यात्री  and crew  क्षमता   .
After leaving Southampton on 10 April 1912 ,  टाइटैनिक  called at Cherbourg in France  और  Queenstown ( now  cobh  ) in  आयरलैंड   पहले  heading westwards towards New York .
On  14  April 1912 , four days into the crossing and  परिचय  375 miles ( 600  km  ) south of  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड   ,   वो  hit  an   हिमशैल  at 11:40  pm  ship 's  समय  .
The  glancing   टक्कर  caused Titanics  हल  plates to buckle inwards along her  स्टारबोर्ड  side and opened  पाँच   of  her sixteen watertight compartments  to  the  समुद्र   ;  the ship gradually filled with  जल  .
Meanwhile ,  यात्री   और  some  क्रू  members were  evacuated   in  lifeboats  ,   अनेक   of  which  यहूद  launched  तभी  partly loaded  .
a  disproportionate  क्रमांक  of  मेन  were  बाएँ  aboard because  of   a  `` women and children  पहला   ``   प्रोटोकॉल  followed  by   कुछ  of  the  officers loading the  lifeboats  .
By 2:20  am  ,  वो  broke  अलावा   और   foundered  , with  खूब  over one thousand people  स्टिल  aboard  .
Just  अंतर्गत  two  घंटों  after  the  Titanic foundered , the  cunard  liner  rms  Carpathia arrived on the scene of the sinking , where  वो   brought  aboard an  अनुमानित  705  survivors  .
the  disaster was  greeted   साथ   विश्वव्यापी  shock  और  outrage at  the  huge loss  of  life and  the   नियामक  and operational  असफलताओं   कि   था   led  to it .
Public inquiries  in   ब्रिटेन  and  the  United States  led   to  major improvements  in  maritime  सुरक्षा   .
एक  of their most  महत्वपूर्ण   legacies  was  the   स्थापना  in 1914 of the International  सम्मेलन  for  the  Safety  of   जीवन  at Sea ( SOLAS ) ,  जिससे  still governs  मेरीटाइम  safety today .
Additionally  ,   अनेक  new wireless regulations were  passed   around   the  world in an effort to learn  इससे  the  अनेक  missteps  in  wireless communications --  -which  could  have   saved  many more  यात्री   .
अनेक  of  the   survivors  lost all of their money  और   possessions  and were left destitute  ;  many families  ,  particularly those of crew  सदस्यों  from  southampton   ,   खोया   उनके   प्राथमिक  bread-winners .
They  यहूद  helped  by  an outpouring  of  public sympathy  और  charitable donations .
कुछ   of  the male survivors  यहूद  accused of cowardice for  leaving  the  जलयान   जबकि  people were  स्टिल  on board ;  the  White Star  लकीर   's   अध्यक्ष  ,  J.  Bruce  ismay   ,   faced   सोशल   ostracism  for  the  rest of  उसके   जीवन  .
The  रेक  of the Titanic remains  on  the seabed ,  विभाजित   in   दो   और  gradually disintegrating  at   a  depth  of   .
Since its  डिस्कवरी  in 1985 ,  हज़ारों  of  artefacts   have  been  बरामद   और   put  on  प्रदर्शक   at   संग्रहालय  around the world  .
टाइटैनिक  has become  एक  of  the   सबसे   प्रसिद्ध   जहाजों  in history ,  उसके   मेमोरी  kept  जिंदा  by  numerous   किताबे  , folk songs , films ,  दर्शाती  , and memorials .
The  इंसान   लेग   is  the  संपूर्ण  lower extremity or limb  of  the human body ,  सहित   the  foot , thigh and  भी  the  हिप   or   gluteal  region  ;  however ,  the  precise definition  in  human anatomy refers  तभी  to the  खण्ड  of the lower limb  extending   इससे  the  घुटना  to the ankle .
Legs are used for standing  ,   चलना   ,   कूद   ,   कार्यशील  , kicking  ,  and similar activities ,  और   constitute  a  significant  portion of a  व्यक्ति  's mass .
This article  is  about the  जनसांख्यिकी   सुविधाएँ   of  the population  of  Turkey  ,  including population density ,  नस्ल   ,   शिक्षा   स्तर  , health  of   the  populace  ,  economic status ,  धार्मिक  affiliations  और   अन्य   पहलुओं  of the population  .
As of 2010 , the population of Turkey is  अनुमानित  to be  73.7   लाख  with a growth rate  of  1.21  %  per annum (  2009   फिगर  ) .
the  population is  अपेक्षाकृत  young  साथ  26.6  %   गिरना  in the 0-14  आयु  bracket .
According  to  the OECD/World Bank population  आंकडे  in  तुर्कों  the population  विकास   इससे  1990  to  2008 was  16   लाख   or  29 %  .
1998  BMW  750il
बुइक  Roadmaster
A  full-size  car is a marketing term used in North America for  an  automobile  larger   than  a mid-size car  .
in  the United  राज्य  , the EPA uses  the  term ``  विशाल   car   ''   to  denote  full-size  cars  .
जोएल   धूसर  ( born April 11 , 1932 ) is an American stage  और   स्क्रीन  actor , singer ,  और   नर्तकी   ,   ज्ञात  for his  भूमिका   as   the  Master of  ceremonies   in  both the  स्टेज   और   फिल्मी   अनुकूलन  of the  kander   &  Ebb  musical  Cabaret .
He  रै   जीती   the  Academy Award  ,   टोनी   पुरस्कार   और  Golden Globe Award  .
he   भी  originated the role  of  George M. Cohan in  the  musical George M  !
in  1973   ,  the Wizard in the musical  दुष्ट   .
Grey also starred  in  the Broadway revivals of  anything  Goes as Moonface Martin , and  शिकागो   as   अमोस   हार्ट  .
James  मैडिसन  ,  jr.  (  कूच  16 , 1751 ( O.S . March 5 ) – June 28 ,  1836  )  थी  an American statesman and political theorist , the fourth  अध्यक्ष  of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   (   1809–1817   )  .
He is hailed as the  “father  of the Constitution”  लिये   होने  instrumental  in   the  drafting of the United States  संविधान  and as the key champion  और   लेखक  of the  संयुक्त  States Bill of Rights .
He  परोसा   as  a politician  much   of  his adult  जीवन  .
बाद  the constitution had  महरूम  drafted , Madison became one of the leaders  in   the  movement to  ratify  it .
उसके  collaboration with Alexander  हैमिल्टन   और  John Jay  उत्पादित  the Federalist Papers ( 1788 )  .
Circulated  तभी   in  New York at the  समय  ,  वे  would  बाद  be considered among the most  महत्वपूर्ण   polemics  in  support   of  the Constitution  .
He was also a delegate  to   the  Virginia constitutional  ratifying  convention , and was  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल  to the successful ratification effort  in   वर्जिनिया   .
जैसे  most of  उसके   contemporaries   ,  Madison changed  उसके   राजनैतिक  views during his  जीवन  .
दौरान   the  drafting and  अनुसमर्थन   of   the  constitution  ,  he favored  a   दमदार  national  सरकारी   ,   हालांकि  later he  grew  to  एहसान  stronger state governments ,  पहले  settling between the two extremes late  in   उसके   जीवन   .
in  1789 , Madison became a  नेता  in  the   नई  House of Representatives ,  drafting   अनेक  basic laws  .
He is notable  लिये   drafting   the  first  टेन  amendments to the  संविधान  ,  और  thus is known  as  the `` Father  of  the Bill  of  Rights  ``   .
Madison worked closely with President  जार्ज  Washington to  व्यवस्थित   the  new federal government .
तोड़कर  with  हैमिल्टन  and  कया  became the Federalist  पार्टी  in  1791  ,  मैडिसन  and  थामस  Jefferson organized what they called  the  Republican Party ( later called by historians the Democratic-Republican  पार्टी   )
As Jefferson’s Secretary of  राज्य  ( 1801–1809 ) , Madison  पर्यवेक्षित  the Louisiana Purchase , which doubled  the  nation’s size  .
बाद  his  चुनाव  to the presidency , he  presided   over   नवीनीकृत   समृद्धि  for several years .
As  अध्यक्ष  ( 1809–17 ) , after the failure of  राजनयिक   विरोध  and a trade  embargo  against Great Britain  ,   he  led the nation into the War  of   1812   .
he  was responding  to   अंग्रेजों   encroachments   on   अमरीकी  honor and rights ; in  जोड  , he wanted  to  end  the   influence  of  the   अंग्रेजों  among  उनके  Indian allies  ,   जिनकी   प्रतिरोध  blocked United States settlement  in  the Midwest around the Great  झीलों   .
मैडिसन   मिला   the   युद्ध  to be an  प्रशासनिक  nightmare  ,   as   the  United  राज्य  had neither a  दमदार  army nor financial system ;  as  a result , he afterward supported a stronger national government and a strong military  ,  as well  as  the  नेशनल   बैंको  , which he  था  long opposed .
जैसे   अन्य   वर्जिनिया  statesmen  in  the slave society , he  थी   a  slaveholder  जो  inherited  उसके   वृक्षारोपण  known  as   montpelier  , and  स्वामित्व   सैंकड़ों   of  slaves during his  आजीवन   to   cultivate  tobacco  और   अन्य   फसलों   .
मैडिसन   समर्थित   the  three-fifths  सुलह  that allowed three-fifths of the  enumerated   जनसांख्यिकी  of  स्लेव   to  be counted  लिये   प्रतिनिधित्व  .
``  रोमन  's  बदला   ''  is a song performed  by  American rapper Nicki  minaj   इससे   उसके   डेब्यू  studio album  गुलाबी   शुक्रवार   .
it  was written by Minaj and rapper Eminem  ,  who is  भी  featured in  the  song  ,  and was produced  by   swizz  Beatz .
It was  released  exclusively on October 30 ,  2010  through  the  US iTunes Store , as  a  promotional release  preceding  the album  's  release  .
The song initiated a  feud  between Lil  '   किम  and Minaj ,  जहाँ  many people felt the song was directed  at   लील   '  Kim and regarded around her  जज्बात   towards   minaj  's rise to  कीर्ति  .
The  सोंग  references  minaj   's  alter-ego  ,  Roman  zolanski   ,   और  Eminem 's alter-ego ,  पतला   छायादार  .
The song garnered  बहुत   धनात्मक  reviews from  आलोचकों  , most  of  which  praised  the  सोंग   as  a stand-out track  on   the   एल्बम  .
An  आधिकारिक   रिमिक्स  featuring  minaj  's mentor , Lil  वेन  , was released  to   the   us  iTunes  स्टोर   on   जनवरी   19  ,  2011   .
The instrumental was used  in   the  song 'Firing  स्क्वाड  ' by Horseshoe G.A.N.G  .
हाइड्रोलिक  fluid being  poured  .
हाइड्रोलिक  fluids , also called hydraulic liquids  ,  are the medium by  जिससे   शक्ति  is  transferred  in  हाइड्रोलिक  machinery  .
Common hydraulic  fluids  are based on mineral  आयल   or   जल   .
उदाहरण  of equipment  कि  might use  हाइड्रोलिक   fluids   शामिल   excavators  and backhoes , hydraulic  brakes   ,  power steering systems , transmissions  ,   कचरा  trucks  ,  aircraft  उड़ान   कंट्रोल  systems , lifts ,  और   औद्योगिक   मशीनरी   .
हाइड्रोलिक  systems like  the  ones  उल्लेखित   ऊपर   होगा  work  सबसे  efficiently if the  हाइड्रोलिक   द्रव   प्रयुक्त  has  no  compressibility
Mahindra Tractor
महिंद्रा  Tractors , the  फार्म   उपकरण  division of  महिंद्रा  & Mahindra , builds and  स्त्रोत   tractors  that are sold  विश्वव्यापी  across six continents .
Mahindra is  भी  among the  शीर्ष  three tractor  निर्माताओं  in the world .
महिंद्रा   रै   a   विशाल  consumer base in  इण्डिया  , China  और  America and a growing  आधार   in  Australia .
the  company  builds  more  tractors  in India than  कोई  other manufacturer , and has  the   क्षमता  to build  150,000  tractors  a  year .
in  1963 , M  &   m   formed  a  संयुक्त  venture with  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Harvester to  manufacture  tractors  carrying   the  Mahindra nameplate for the Indian market .
Armed  साथ   अभियान्त्रिकी  ,  tooling   और  manufacturing  know-how   gained  from this relationship , M &  m  developed its first  ट्रैक्टर  , the B-275  .
महिंद्रा  Tractors with sales of  nearly  85,000 units annually is one of  the  largest  ट्रैक्टर   कंपनियाँ  in the  संसार   ,  and is number one in sales  in  India - the largest tractor market in  the   संसार   .
to  expand into  the   growing   ट्रैक्टर   मार्केट  in China  ,   महिंद्रा  acquired majority stake in Jiangling .
to   उठाएँ  awareness about Mahindra  in   the   us   ,  Mahindra  यूएसए  announced its new  प्रायोजन   in  the  nascar   देशभर  Series with R3 Motorsports , which is participating  साथ  a  #  23  महिंद्रा  Tractors  शेवरलेट   .
The car  होगा  be driven by Robert  रिचर्डसन  , Jr. Mahindra USA ,  inc.  announced a 17-race primary and  18-race  associate sponsorship  लिये  the 2009  nascar   देशभर  Series .
With this sponsorship  ,   महिंद्रा   थी  the  पहला  Indian company  to  sponsor  a   car   in  NASCAR .
in   2008  , Mahindra was a sponsor of the McDonald  मोटरस्पोर्ट  team  जिससे   भागा  the  #   81   car   in  the NASCAR  देशभर   श्रेणी  .
The POWER6  is  a  माइक्रोप्रोसेसर  developed  by  IBM that  implemented  the  शक्ति   isa   v.2.03   .
जब  it became  उपलब्धियाँ   in  systems in 2007  ,  it  succeeded   the  POWER5+ as IBM  's  flagship  शक्ति   माइक्रोप्रोसेसर  .
It is  भाग  of the eCLipz project ,  कहा   to   have  a  लक्ष्य  of converging IBM 's server  हार्डवेयर  where practical  (  hence ``  ipz   ''   in  the acronym  :   iseries  , pSeries  ,  and zSeries )  .
The  अमरीकी  middle class  is   a  social class in the United States  .
While  the  concept  is   typically  ambiguous in popular opinion  और  common  भाषा  use ,  समकालीन  social  वैज्ञानिकों   have  put forward  अनेक  , more or less congruent , theories  on  the  अमरीकी   मध्य  class .
Depending on class model used , the  मध्य  class may constitute anywhere from 25 % to  66   %  of households  .
एक  of the  पहला   प्रमुख  studies of  the   मध्य  class  in   अमेरिका  was  श्वेत   कॉलर  :  the  American Middle Classes , published in  1951  by  समाजशास्त्री  C.  राइट  Wright_Mills  मिलों  Wright_Mills .
बाद   sociologists  such  as   डेनिस  Gilbert  of   हैमिल्टन  College commonly divide the middle class into  दो  sub-groups .
Constituting roughly 15 % to  20   %  of households  is   the   अपर  or professional middle class consisting of  अत्यधिक   शिक्षित  , salaried professionals and  प्रबंधक  .
Constituting  roughly  one  तीसरा   of  households  is  the  निम्नतर   मध्य  class  consisting  mostly  of  semi-professionals  ,  skilled  कारीगरों  and  lower-level   प्रबन्धन  .
middle-class  persons commonly have a  आरामदायक  standard  of  living  ,   significant   आर्थिक  security , considerable work autonomy  और  rely  on  their expertise  to   sustain  themselves  .
सदस्यों  of the  मध्य  class belong to diverse groups  जिससे  overlap  साथ   प्रत्येक  other  .
Overall  ,  middle-class  व्यक्तियों  ,  विशेषकर   upper-middle-class  individuals  ,   हैं  characterized by  conceptualizing   ,  creating and consulting  .
यूँ   ,   कॉलेज  education  is  one  of   the   प्रमुख  indicators of middle-class status  .
largely  attributed  to  the nature  of  middle-class occupations  ,  middle class  मान   tend   to   emphasize  independence  ,  adherence  to  intrinsic  मानकों  , valuing  नवीनता  and respecting non-conformity  .
नीतियां  more active  than  other  जनसांख्यिकी   ,  college  शिक्षित  middle class  पेशेवर  are  विभाजित  between the two major  पार्टियों  .
आय   varies   considerably  from  निकट   the  national  मध्य  to well in excess of  $  100,000  .
household  income figures , however ,  do  not  सदा  reflect  क्लास   औकात  and standard  of   जीना   ,   as   वे   हैं   largely   बहकावे   by   the  number of income earners and fail to  recognize  household size .
It is therefore  संभावित   लिये   a   विशाल   ,   dual-earner  , lower  मध्य  class  household  to out-earn a small  ,  one-earner  ,  upper  मध्य  class household  .
the   मध्य  classes  हैं   बहुत  influential ,  as  they encompass the majority  of  voters , writers ,  शिक्षक  ,  पत्रकारों  , and editors  .
Most societal  रुझान  in the  us   originate  within the  मध्य  classes  .
the  following is a list of Saturday Night Live cast members , past and  उपस्थित  .
The cast members of  शनिवार  Night  सजीव  were originally  referred   to  as the ``  नहीं  Ready For  प्रधान   समय  Players '' .
the  original cast  (   l  to r )  :  Laraine  न्युमैन  , John Belushi ,  जेन   कर्टिन  , Gilda Radner , Dan Aykroyd , Garrett Morris  ,   और   चेवी   पीछा
Ruins  इससे  the 1906 San  फ्रांसिस्को   भूकंप   ,  remembered as one of  the   worst  natural  आपदाओं  in  संयुक्त  States history
a  disaster is a  प्राकृतिक   or   man-made  (  or  technological ) hazard resulting  in  an event of  substantial  extent causing significant  शारीरिक   क्षति   or   विनाश  , loss of life , or drastic change to  the   पर्यावरण   .
A disaster  can   be   ostensively   पारिभाषित   as  any  tragic   इवेंट   stemming  from events  ऐसे   as  earthquakes , floods ,  अनर्थकारी  accidents , fires , or explosions  .
it  is a  घटना  that can cause damage  to  life and property and destroy the economic , social  और  cultural life  of  people  .
In contemporary academia ,  आपदाओं  are seen  as  the consequence of  inappropriately  managed risk  .
These  risks  are  the  product of  a  combination of both hazard/s  और   vulnerability  .
Hazards  कि  strike in  क्षेत्रों   साथ  low  vulnerability  will never become  आपदाओं   ,   as  is the case  in   uninhabited  regions  .
Developing  देशों  suffer  the  greatest costs when a disaster  हिट्स  – more  than   95  percent  of  all  मौतों   caused  by disasters occur  in  developing countries  ,  and  नुकसान  due to  प्राकृतिक  disasters  हैं  20 times greater ( as  a  percentage of GDP ) in  विकासशील  countries than in industrialized countries .
In computing , booting  (  also known as booting  up   )   is  the initial set of operations that  a  computer  प्रणाली  performs  जब  electrical  शक्ति  to the  cpu  is switched on  .
The  प्रक्रम  begins when  a  computer is turned  on   लिये  the  पहला  time or  is  re-energized after being turned  बंद   ,   और   ends   जब  the  कंप्यूटर  is ready to  perform  its  सामान्य  operations .
On modern general purpose  कंप्यूटर   ,   इस   can   लो   tens   of   सेकेंड  and  typically  involves  performing  a power-on self-test , locating  और  initializing  परिधीय  devices  ,  and  तब   ढूंढना   ,  loading  और  starting  an   ऑपरेटिंग  system  .
Many computer  प्रणालियों   भी  allow  ये  operations to be initiated  by   a  software  कमांड  without cycling power  ,  in what is  ज्ञात   as  a  नरम  reboot , though  कुछ  of the  आरंभिक   परिचालन  might be skipped on a soft  रिबूट   .
a  boot loader  is  a  कंप्यूटर   कार्यक्रम  that  loads  the main operating  प्रणाली  or  runtime  environment for the computer after completion of the  self-tests   .
The computer  पद  boot is short for bootstrap  or  bootstrap  लोड  and derives from the  phrase   to  pull oneself  up   by  one 's  bootstraps   .
The  उपयोग   काल्स  attention to the  आवश्यकता  that , if most  तन्त्र   is   loaded   onto   a   कंप्यूटर  by  अन्य   तन्त्र  already  कार्यशील  on the computer ,  कुछ  mechanism  जरूर   मौजूद   to   लोड  initial software onto the  कंप्यूटर   .
जल्दी   कंप्यूटर  used a variety  of  ad-hoc methods to get a small program  into  memory to solve  इस   प्रॉब्लम  .
The  आविष्कार  of integrated circuit  read-only   मेमोरी   (   rom  )  of   विभिन्न   प्रकार  solved  इस   विरोधाभास  by allowing  कंप्यूटर   to   be  shipped  साथ   a   प्रारंभ  up  कार्यक्रम   कि  could  नहीं  be erased  .
Growth in  the   क्षमता  of  rom  has allowed ever  अधिक  elaborate start  up   प्रक्रियाओं   to  be implemented  .
On  सामान्य  purpose computers  ,  the boot process begins with  the   निष्पादन  of  an  initial program stored in  बूट  ROMs or  पढ़ा   in  another  फ़ैशन  .
In some  पुरानी  computers  ,   the  initial program might  have  been  the  application  to  run , if no operating system  थी  used  ,  or the operating  प्रणाली  .
in  other computers ,  the  initial program  is   a  boot loader that may  तब  load into random-access memory ( RAM )  ,  from nonvolatile secondary storage (  ऐसे   as   a  hard  डिस्क   ड्राइव  ) or  ,  in  कुछ  older  कंप्यूटर   ,  from  a  medium such as punched cards , punched tape ,  or  magnetic tape  in  older computers , the binary  कोड  of  an   ऑपरेटिंग  system or  runtime   पर्यावरण  and then  चलाएँ  it  .
If the  बूट  loader  is  limited  in   इसके   आकार  and capabilities  ,   it   may   ,  instead , load a  larger   और   अधिक  capable secondary  बूट  loader  ,  which would then load the  ऑपरेटिंग  system  or  runtime environment  .
कुछ   अंतःस्थापित   प्रणालियों   do  not require a noticeable boot sequence to begin  कामकाज  and when turned  on   may  simply  चलाएं   operational   कार्यक्रम  that are  भंडारित   in   rom  .
firebird  is  an  open source SQL relational database  प्रबन्धन  system that runs on Linux ,  खिड़कियाँ   ,   और  a variety  of  Unix .
The database forked  इससे  Borland  's   खोलें  source edition  of  InterBase  in   2000  , but  चूंकि   firebird  1.5  the  code  रै  been largely rewritten  .
Outsourcing is  the   contracting  out of  an   आतंरिक  business process  to  a third-party  संगठन  .
the   अभ्यास   of   contracting  a business process out to a third party rather than staffing it internally is  आम  in the modern economy  .
the  term `` outsourcing  ''   became   लोकप्रिय   in   the  United States near the turn  of  the 21st century .
आउटसोर्सिंग   sometimes  involves  transferring   कर्मचारी  and assets  इससे  one  कड़  to  another   ,  but  नहीं   सदा   .
The definition  of  outsourcing  शामिल   दोनो   विदेशी   और   घरेलू  contracting  ,   और   sometimes  includes offshoring  ,   जिससे  means relocating a  कारोबार  function to another country  .
वित्तीय  savings  इससे  lower international labor rates is  a  big motivation  लिये   outsourcing/offshoring  .
The opposite of outsourcing is  पुकारा  insourcing , which entails bringing processes handled  by   third-party  firms in-house , and is sometimes accomplished  via   लंबवत  integration .
However  ,  a business can  provide  a contract  सेवा  to  another  business without necessarily insourcing  कि  business  प्रक्रम   .
Human immunodeficiency virus (  hiv  ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating retrovirus ) that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (  एड्स   )   ,   a   कंडीशन  in humans  in  which progressive  विफलता   of  the  प्रतिरक्षा   प्रणाली  allows life-threatening opportunistic  infections  and cancers  to  thrive .
Infection with HIV  occurs  by the transfer  of   रक्त  ,  वीर्य   ,  vaginal fluid  ,   pre-ejaculate  ,  or  breast milk .
भीतर  these bodily fluids , HIV  is   उपस्थित  as  दोनो  free virus particles and virus within infected immune cells .
hiv  infects vital cells in the  इंसान   प्रतिरक्षा  system  ऐसे   as   हेल्पर   t  cells (  specifically  CD4 + T cells  )  , macrophages , and  dendritic  cells .
HIV  संक्रमण  leads  to  low  स्तर  of  cd4+  T cells through a  क्रमांक  of  mechanisms  including :  apoptosis  of uninfected  bystander  cells ,  सीधा  viral killing  of  infected cells  ,  and killing of infected  cd4+   t   कोशिकाएं  by  cd8  cytotoxic lymphocytes  कि  recognize infected cells .
When  cd4+   t   कोशिका  numbers decline below a critical level ,  cell-mediated  immunity  is  lost ,  और  the body  becomes   progressively   अधिक   susceptible  to  opportunistic   infections  .
the  firepole in  a   आग   स्टेशन   in  Toronto
A fireman 's pole  (  also  पुकारा  a sliding pole  or  firepole ) is a  लकड़ी   ध्रुव  or  a  metal tube  or   पाइप  installed  between  floors in  आग   स्टेशन  , allowing firefighters  responding  to an  सचेतक  to quickly descend  to  the ground  मंजिल  faster than by  using  a standard  staircase   .
The  यंत्र   थी  invented in the 1870s  by   दाउद  Kenyon  ,  in  शिकागो  , Illinois , although it is often  incorrectly   credited  to the Boston  आग  Department  .
मरियम  Poppins is the title  अक्षर   of  a series  of   children   's   किताबे  written by P.  L.  Travers .
Throughout  the   मरियम  Poppins series  ,   जिससे  lasted  इससे   1934  to 1988  ,  Mary Shepard  थी  the  इलस्ट्रेटर  and acted as a second author .
the  books  केन्द्र  on a magical English  नैनी  ,  मरियम  Poppins .
She  is   blown  by the  ईस्ट   हवा  to Number Seventeen  चेरी  Tree Lane , London , and into the Banks ' household to  परवाह  for  उनके  children .
मुठभेड़ों  with  चिमनी   sweeps  , shopkeepers  और   विभिन्न  adventures  follow   जबतक  Mary  poppins  abruptly leaves  ,   i.e.  , `` pops-out '' .
The adventures take  प्लेस  over a total of  आठ  books  .
however   ,  only the first three  किताबे  feature  मरियम  Poppins arriving and  leaving   .
The later five  किताबे  recount previously  unrecorded   adventures   इससे  her  असली  three visits .
as   P.   L.   ट्रेवर्स   explains  in her introduction to Mary Poppins in the  पार्क   ,   ``  She  can  not forever  arrive   और   निकलें   .  ''
The books  यहूद  adapted  in  1964 into a musical Disney film starring  जूली   एंड्रयूज  and  लंड   वैन  Dyke  .
In  2004   ,  Disney Theatrical produced a  स्टेज   musical   अनुकूलन  in the  वेस्ट  End theatre .
The stage musical  थी  transferred to  ब्रॉडवे  in  2006  where it  भागा  until its closing on March  3  , 2013 .
It  रै  been  अत्यधिक   कामयाब  , as was the  1964  film .
The  पिछला  Song  is   a  2010 American coming  of   आयु  teen romantic drama  फिल्मी  developed alongside Nicholas Sparks  '   अनोखा  by  the   वही   नाम  .
The  फिल्मी   थी   निर्देशित  by Julie Anne Robinson  in  her  विशेषता  film  directorial  debut  और  co-written  by  Sparks  और  Jeff Van  wie  .
The Last  सोंग   सितारों  Miley  सायरस  ,  लियाम   hemsworth  , and Greg  kinnear   और  follows a  troubled  teenager as she reconnects with her estranged  पिता  and falls  in   प्रेम  during  a   गर्मियाँ  in a  शांत   दक्षिणी  United States  बीच  town .
The film  is   वितरित  by Touchstone Pictures  .
स्पार्क्स   थी   approached   to   लिखें  both the  फिल्मी   's  screenplay and the novel .
Sparks completed the screenplay in January  2009   ,  prior  to  the completion of  the  novel  ,  making The Last Song his  पहला   स्क्रिप्ट  to  be   optioned  for  फिल्मी  .
The  सेटिंग   ,  originally in North Carolina like the  अनोखा  ,  स्थानांतरित  to Georgia after the states  था   campaigned  for months to  मेजबान  production  .
upon   शुरूआत  production in Tybee Island  ,   जॉर्जिया  and  आसपास   savannah   ,  The  पिछला  Song  became   the  first  फिल्म   to  be both  शॉट  and set  in  Tybee Island .
Filming  lasted   इससे  June  15   to  August 18  ,   2009  with much  of   it  occurring  on  the  द्वीप  's  बीच  and  बांध   .
The  पिछला   सोंग  was originally  अनुसूचित   लिये  wide  रिलीज  on  जनवरी   8   ,  2010  ,  but was postponed to March 31  ,   2010   .
Written Simlish
simlish  is a  fictional   भाषा   प्रदर्शित   in  EA Games ' Sim series of games .
It  debuted   in   simcopter  , and  रै   महरूम   विशेषकर   prominent   in  The Sims ,  the  Sims 2 and The Sims  3  .
The Sims  विकास   टोली   निर्मित  the  अद्वितीय  Simlish  भाषा   by   experimenting  with  fractured   यूक्रेनी   ,  French  ,   लैटिन  , Finnish  ,  English , Fijian ,  सेबुआनो   ,   और  Tagalog .
Simlish can also  be   सुना  in SimCity 4 , SimCity Societies and  simcity  2013 ,  लकिन  far less  अक्सर  .
Civilized Creatures  in  Spore can also be  सिखाया  to  बोलो  Simlish .
it  is  भी   प्रदर्शित  to an extent in Firaxis  खेल  '  सिड  Meier 's SimGolf .
Designer Will Wright  थी  conscious  of  the need for dialogue in  the  game  ,  but thought  कि  using a  रियल   भाषा   होता  make it sound too repetitive and would  भी  be too  costly  to  hire   अनुवादक  for  संसार  languages .
Initially , inspired by  the   देशी   अमरीकी  code talkers of  संसार   युद्ध  II  ,   सीम  creator Will  राइट  and language  विशेषज्ञ  Marc  gimbel   सुझाया  experimenting  साथ   the   navajo  language to create Simlish  .
however   ,  they ultimately decided that Simlish  worked  best  as   a   ``  language  ''   बना  up of  gibberish  words that could n't  be  translated  ,  so that its meaning  होता  be left  खोलें  to the imagination  of   the   खिलाड़ी  .
Wright later commented  कि  using ``  बकवास  language '' turned out to be  the   सही  development  चुनाव  ,  as  people were capable  of  imagining it more realistically  than   a  computer  could  simulate a real one  .
the   वास्तविक  sound  of  Simlish was created improvisationally  by   आवाज़   अभिनेताओं  Stephen  kearin  and Gerri Lawlor .
an  example of Ultrasonic Testing (  ut  ) on blade roots of a  v2500  IAE  वायुयान   इंजन  .
Step 1  :   the  UT probe  is  placed on  the  root  of   the  blades to be inspected  साथ  the help of a  खास  borescope tool ( video probe ) .
Step  2   :   यंत्र   जमावट  are  इनपुट  .
Step 3  :   the  probe  is   scanned  over the  ब्लेड   रूट  .
in  this case , an indication ( peak  in  the data  )  through  the   रेड  line  (  or gate  )  indicates a  शुभ   ब्लेड   ;   an  indication to  the  left of  कि  range indicates  a  crack  .
Principle  of  ultrasonic testing  .
LEFT  :  A  जांच   भेजना   a   ध्वनि  wave  into  a test material  .
वहीँ  are two  indications   ,   एक   इससे  the  आरंभिक   पल्स  of  the  probe  ,   और  the second due to the back wall  गूंज  .
RIGHT :  a  defect creates a third indication  और   simultaneously  reduces  the  amplitude  of  the back wall indication .
The  गहराई   of  the  defect  is  संकल्पित  by the ratio  d/e
In ultrasonic  परीक्षण  ( UT )  ,  very short  अल्ट्रासोनिक   pulse-waves  with center frequencies ranging from 0.1-15 MHz and occasionally up to 50 MHz are  शुभारम्भ  into materials  to   detect  internal  खामियां   or   to  characterize  सामग्री   .
A  आम  example is  अल्ट्रासोनिक  thickness measurement ,  जिससे  tests the thickness  of   the   परीक्षण   ऑब्जेक्ट  ,  लिये   उदाहरण  ,  to  monitor  pipework  corrosion .
Ultrasonic  परीक्षण  is often performed on  स्टील  and other  धातुओं  and  alloys   ,  though it  can  also  be   प्रयुक्त   on   कंक्रीट   ,  wood and composites , albeit with  कम  resolution .
It is a form of non-destructive testing  प्रयुक्त  in  अनेक   उद्योग   सहित  aerospace , automotive  और   अन्य   परिवहन   सेक्टर   .
The vas deferens ( plural  :  vasa deferentia )  ,  also called ductus  deferens   (   लैटिन   :  `` carrying-away vessel  ''  ; plural : ductus deferentes ) ,  is   भाग  of the male anatomy  of   अनेक  vertebrates  ;  they  हस्तांतरण  sperm from the  epididymis  in  पुट   of   स्खलन  .
Vascular ischemia  of  the toes with  characteristic   cyanosis   .
In medicine  ,  ischemia  ,  also spelled  as   ischaemia  or  ischæmia   ,   (  ; from Greek  भाषा  ισχαιμία ,  ischaimía   ;   isch-   रूट  denoting a restriction  or   thinning   or  to make or  grow  thin/lean , haema  रक्त  ) is a restriction in blood supply to tissues  ,  causing  a   shortage  of  ऑक्सीजन  and  ग्लूकोज   needed  for cellular  चयापचय   (   to  keep tissue  जिंदा  ) .
Ischemia is generally  caused  by  समस्याएं   साथ   रक्त  vessels  ,   साथ  resultant damage  to  or dysfunction of tissue .
It  भी  means  लोकल  anemia  in  a given  भाग   of   a   देह  sometimes  resulting  from  जमघट  ( such as vasoconstriction  ,  thrombosis  or  embolism  )  .
bas  syndrome (  ds  )  or  Down  's  syndrome , also known  as   trisomy  21 , is a  जेनेटिक  disorder  caused  by the  उपस्थिति  of  सब   or  part  of  a  तीसरा   नक़ल  of chromosome  21   .
bas  syndrome is the  सबसे  common chromosome abnormality in  इंसानो   .
It is  typically  associated with a delay in  संज्ञानात्मक   क्षमता   (  mental retardation , or MR  )  and physical  विकास  , and a particular set  of   फेशियल   विशेषताएँ   .
The average IQ of young adults with Down  सिंड्रोम  is around  50  , whereas young adults  बगैर  the  कंडीशन  typically have an IQ of  100   .
(  MR has historically been defined as an IQ below  70   .   )
A large  proportion  of individuals  साथ  Down syndrome have  a  severe  उपाधि  of  बौद्धिक   विकलांगता  .
Down  सिंड्रोम   is  named  बाद  John Langdon  bas  ,  the   अंग्रेजों  physician  जो   वर्णित  the syndrome  in  1866 .
the  condition  थी   clinically  described earlier  by   जां   etienne  Dominique  esquirol   in  1838  और   edouard  Seguin in 1844  .
bas  syndrome  थी   पहचाना   as  a chromosome  21   trisomy   by   dr.   jérôme  Lejeune  in   1959  .
bas  syndrome can  be  identified in  a  baby at birth  or   पहले   जनम   by   prenatal  screening .
pregnancies  with this diagnosis are often  terminated   .
The  सीडीसी  estimates  कि  about one of  प्रत्येक  691 babies  born   in   the   संयुक्त  States each year is  born  with Down syndrome .
Many  children  with Down  सिंड्रोम  are educated in regular school  वर्ग   जबकि  others  आवश्यकता   specialised   शैक्षणिक   सुविधाएं  .
Some children  ग्रैजुएट   इससे  high school  ,  and , in  the   us   ,   वहीँ  are increasing opportunities for participating in  post-secondary  education  .
Education and proper care has  महरूम  shown  to   improve   विशेषता   of  life significantly  .
अनेक  adults  साथ  Down  सिंड्रोम   हैं   समर्थ   to   कार्य  at paid  नियुक्ति   in  the community , while  अन्य   आवश्यकता  a  अधिक   sheltered   कार्य  environment .
hot   flashes   (  also known as hot flushes , or night  sweats  if  वे  happen  at  night  )  are  a  symptom which may have several other causes  ,   लकिन  which is often  caused  by the  बदलना  hormone  स्तर  that are  characteristic  of  रजोनिवृत्ति   .
the  Servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 (  p.l  . 78-346 ,  58  Stat . 284m  )  , known informally as the  g.i  . Bill  ,  was a law  कि   provided   a  range  of   लाभ   लिये  returning World War II veterans  (  commonly referred  to   as  G.I.s )  .
Benefits  शामिल  low-cost mortgages ,  low-interest   लोन   to   प्रारंभ  a business or farm ,  नकदी   भुगतान   of  tuition and living  खर्च  to attend  कॉलेज  , high school  or  vocational education , as well  as   एक   साल  of  बेरोजगारी   मुआवजे  .
It  थी  available  to  every veteran who  था  been on active  ड्यूटी  during  the   युद्ध  years  लिये   at  least  नब्बे  days and had not been  dishonorably  discharged  ;  combat  थी   नहीं  required .
by   the  end  of  the program in  1956   ,  roughly 2.2 million  दिग्गजों   था  used the G.I .  विधेयक   शिक्षा  benefits  in   अनुक्रम  to attend  कॉलेजों   or  universities , and  an   अतिरिक्त  6.6 million  प्रयुक्त   ये  benefits for  कुछ   दयालु  of training program  .
चूंकि   the  original 1944 law , the  पद   रै   आइये  to include other veteran benefit programs  निर्मित   to   assist  veterans  of   subsequent  wars as  खूब  as peacetime service .
इतिहासकारों  and  अर्थशास्त्रियों  consider  the   g.i  .  विधेयक   a  major political success—especially  in   कंट्रास्ट   to  the treatments of World War  i   veterans—and  a major  योगदान  to  अमेरिका   's   भण्डार   of   इंसान   पूंजी   कि  sped  long-term   आर्थिक  growth .
The  वाटरगेट  scandal was a political  कांड   कि   occurred   in   the  United States in the 1970s  as  a result of the June  17   ,   1972   break-in   at   the  Democratic National Committee  मुख्यालय   at   the  Watergate  दफ्तर  complex in  वॉशिंगटन  , D.C. , and  the   निक्सन  administration  's   attempted   cover-up   of  its involvement  .
The scandal  आखिरकार   led  to the resignation of  रिचर्ड  Nixon , the  अध्यक्ष  of the  संयुक्त  States , on  अगस्त   9  , 1974  —  the  तभी  resignation of  a   u.S.   अध्यक्ष   .
The scandal also  resulted  in the indictment  ,  trial  ,   conviction  , and  incarceration   of   forty-three   व्यक्तियों  ,  दर्जनों  of whom  यहूद  Nixon  's  top administration  officials   .
The affair began with  the   गिरफ़्तार   of   पाँच  men  लिये  breaking and entering into the Democratic National  कमेटी   (  DNC ) headquarters  at  the  वाटरगेट  complex  on  June  17  , 1972 .
the  Federal  ब्यूरो  of Investigation  (   एफबीआई   )  connected cash found on the burglars  to  a slush fund  प्रयुक्त  by  the   कमेटी   लिये  the  re-election   of  the  अध्यक्ष   ,  the official organization of Nixon 's  अभियान  .
In July  1973   ,   as   प्रमाण   आरोहित   विरूद्ध  the president  's  staff  ,   सहित  testimony provided by former  स्टाफ   सदस्यों  in an investigation conducted by the  सीनेट   वाटरगेट   कमेटी  ,  it  was revealed  कि   अध्यक्ष   निक्सन  had a  tape-recording  system  in   उसके  offices and  he   था  recorded many conversations  .
रिकार्डिंग  from  ये   टेपों  implicated the  अध्यक्ष  ,  revealing  he  था   attempted  to cover  up   the   questionable   (  and illegal ) goings-on  कि   था   लिया   प्लेस   दौरान   उसके   प्रशासन   ,  both before and after  the   break-in   .
After a  protracted   श्रेणी   of  bitter court battles ,  the   u.S.   परम्  Court unanimously ruled  कि  the president  था  to  हाथ   over   the  tapes to government investigators ;  he  ultimately complied  .
Facing  near-certain  impeachment in  the   हाउस  of  प्रतिनिधि  and  a  strong possibility of a conviction  in   the  Senate  ,   निक्सन  resigned the presidency on  अगस्त   9  , 1974  .
His successor ,  जेराल्ड   घाट  ,  तब   जारी  a  pardon   to  him  .
एलिज़ाबेथ   imogene   webber   (  formerly  lansing  and Spencer )  is  a fictional character on  the  ABC Daytime  साबुन  opera General  हॉस्पिटल   .
एलिज़ाबेथ  is  the  granddaughter of  dr.   स्टीव   हार्डी  (  जॉन  Beradino ) ,  एक  of  the   originating   कोर  characters of the  श्रेणी   .
Rebecca  herbst  originated the character on August  1   ,  1997  और  has  महरूम  the  तभी   अनुबंध  actress to play the role .
Elizabeth is part of two  supercouple  pairings , Lucky  स्पेंसर  and Elizabeth Webber and Jason Morgan and  एलिज़ाबेथ  Webber .
The United States  प्रेसिडेंसी  of Ronald Reagan , also known as  the  Reagan  प्रशासन  , was a Republican  प्रशासन   headed   by  Ronald  reagan   इससे  January  20  , 1981 ,  to   जनवरी  20  ,  1989  .
domestically  , the  प्रशासन  favored reducing government  कार्यक्रम  and introduced the largest across-the-board  कर  cuts in American history .
The economic policies enacted  in   1981  , known as  ``  Reaganomics ``  ,  were an  उदाहरण   of  supply-side economics .
Reagan aimed to encourage  उद्यमिता   और   सीमा   the  growth of  सोशल  spending , as  खूब   as  the reduction  of  regulation and  महंगाई  .
Economic  विकास   देखी   a   दमदार  recovery in  the  1980s  ,   helping  Reagan  to  win  a   भूस्खलन  re-election  .
The  नेशनल  debt  increased  significantly  ,   however  .
Regarding  विदेशी  policy ,  the  administration was  steadfastly   anti-communist  , calling the  सोवियत  Union an ``  दुष्ट  empire ``  और  ending 1970s  détente  .
Reagan accelerated  the   विशाल  buildup  of   the   सैन्य  started by his predecessor  ,  including an invasion  of   हरा   ,   the   पहला  major  विदेशी  action by  u.S.  troops since  the  end  of   the  Vietnam War .
The  ``  Reagan Doctrine `` controversially  granted  aid  to  paramilitary  शक्तियां  seeking to overthrow  कम्युनिस्ट   सरकारें  , particularly in war-torn Central America and Afghanistan  .
Reagan also  प्रचारित  new technologies  ऐसे  as  मिसाइल  defense systems in  अनुक्रम   to   confront   the  Soviets and their  allies  .
in  diplomacy , Reagan  forged  a strong  गठबंधन  with UK Prime Minister  मार्गरेट  Thatcher  ,   और  he met with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev  चार   टाइम्स  , aiming to shrink the superpowers '  नाभिकीय  arsenals  .
Reagan  's  presidency  रै  been  termed   the  ``  reagan  Revolution '' , or the Age  of  Reagan in recognition of the political realignment both within and beyond  the   u.S.  in favor of  उसके  brand of conservatism and his faith  in   फ़्री  markets .
the  Reagan administration worked toward  the   पतन  of  सोवियत  Communism ,  और  it  किया   पतन  just  as   he  left office  .
विजय  in the  ठंडा   युद्ध   led   to  a unipolar  संसार   साथ  the  u.S.  as  the   संसार  's sole superpower .
जबकि  the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed  अनेक  Reagan aides during  उसके  second term , Reagan himself left office with a 63 percent approval rating , one of  the  higher approval ratings  of   दूँ  presidents .
बाद   सालो  of unstinting  तारीफ़  from  the  right , and unrelenting criticism from the  बाएँ   ,  historian David  हेनरी   पाता   कि   by   2009  a  सर्वसम्मति   था  emerged among  विद्वानों  that Reagan revived conservatism  और  turned the nation to the  सही  by demonstrating  a   ``  pragmatic conservatism '' that  प्रचारित  ideology  भीतर   the  constraints imposed by the  विभाजित   राजनैतिक   प्रणाली   .
Furthermore ,  says  Henry , the  सर्वसम्मति  viewpoint agrees that  he   revived   आस्था   in  the  प्रेसिडेंसी  and  अमरीकी   self-confidence  , and  contributed  critically  to  ending the Cold  युद्ध  .
Crude death  रेट  by country ( 2006 ) .
मृत्यु  rate  is  a  माप   of   the   क्रमांक   of   मौतों  (  in  general , or  due  to  a   विशिष्ट   कारण   )  in  a   जनसांख्यिकी  .
Scaled  to  the size of that population ,  प्रति   ईकाई   of   समय  .
मृत्यु  rate is typically expressed  in  units of deaths per 1000  individuals   प्रति  year ;  यूँ  ,  a  mortality rate of 9.5 (  आउट  of  1000   )  in a  जनसांख्यिकी  of 1,000 would mean 9.5  मौतों   प्रति  year in  कि  entire  जनसांख्यिकी   ,  or  0.95   %   आउट   of  the total  .
It  is  distinct from  morbidity   रेट  , which  refers  to  the  number of individuals  in   ग़रीब   स्वास्थ्य   दौरान   a   दिए  time period  (   the  prevalence rate ) or  the  number  of   newly  appearing cases  of  the  बीमारी   प्रति   ईकाई  of time  (  incidence rate )  .
The term  ``  mortality  ``  is also  sometimes   inappropriately  used  to  refer to the number of deaths  among   a   नियत   of   diagnosed  hospital  मामले  for  a   बीमारी  or  चोट  , rather  than   लिये   the  general  जनसांख्यिकी  of  a  country or  जातीय  group  .
This disease mortality  statistic  is more  precisely  referred  to  as  ``   मामला   fatality  rate `` ( CFR  )   .
एक  distinguishes:
The crude  मौत   रेट  , the total  क्रमांक  of  मौतों  per  साल   प्रति   1000  people  .
the crude death rate for the whole world is  परिचय  8.37 per 1000  प्रति  year  according  to the current CIA  संसार  Factbook .
The  perinatal  mortality rate  ,  the  योग  of neonatal deaths and  fetal  deaths  (   stillbirths   )  per  1000  births  .
The maternal mortality  अनुपात  , the  क्रमांक   of  maternal deaths  प्रति  100,000 live births  in  same time period  .
The maternal mortality  रेट   ,  the  क्रमांक   of   मातृ  deaths per 1,000 women of reproductive age in  the  population ( generally  पारिभाषित  as  15–44   सालो  of  आयु   )  .
The infant mortality rate , the  क्रमांक  of deaths of children  कम  than 1  साल   बूढ़ा   प्रति  1000 live  births   .
The child mortality  रेट   ,   the  number  of  deaths of children  कम   than   5  years  बूढ़ा  per  1000   सजीव  births .
The standardised mortality ratio (  smr   )  - This  represents  a proportional  तुलना  to the numbers of deaths  कि  would have been  अपेक्षित   if  the population had been  of   a  standard  संयोजन   in  terms of age ,  लिंग  ,  इत्यादि   .
the  age-specific mortality rate ( ASMR ) -  इस  refers  to   the  total  क्रमांक  of deaths  प्रति   साल  per  1000  people of a  दिए  age ( e.g  .  age 62  पिछला  birthday  )  .
In  लिहाज़   to  the or  विफलता  of  चिकित्सा   उपचार  or procedures ,  एक   होता  also distinguish:
the   जल्दी  mortality rate , the  कुल  number  of  deaths in the  जल्दी  stages of an ongoing treatment ,  or   in   the  period  तत्काल   following   an  treatment .
The late mortality rate ,  the  total number  of  deaths in the late  चरण   of  an ongoing  उपचार  , or  a   significant   लंबाई   of   समय  after an acute  उपचार   .
Note that the crude death  रेट  as  पारिभाषित  above and applied  to  a whole  जनसांख्यिकी  can  दे   a  misleading impression  .
the   crude   मौत   रेट  depends  on  the  आयु   (   और  gender ) specific  मृत्यु   दरों  and the  आयु  ( and gender  )   वितरण  of  the   जनसांख्यिकी  .
The  क्रमांक  of deaths per 1000 people can be higher for developed nations  than  in  less-developed  countries , despite  जीवन  expectancy being  उच्चतर  in developed  देशों   due  to standards of health being  बेहतर   .
इस   happens  because  विकसित  countries typically have  a  completely  अलग   जनसांख्यिकी  age distribution , with  a   much   उच्चतर   proportion  of older people  ,   due   to  both lower  हाल   जनम  rates and lower mortality rates .
A  अधिक   पूरा  picture  of  mortality  is  given by  a   जीवन   तालिका   जिससे  shows the  मृत्यु  rate  separately  for each age  .
A life table  is   जरुरी   to  give  a   शुभ  estimate of  जीवन   प्रत्याशा   .
An otoacoustic  उत्सर्जन  ( OAE  )   is   a  sound  जिससे  is generated  इससे   भीतर  the  भीतरी  ear  .
having  been predicted by Thomas Gold in 1948 , its  अस्तित्व   थी  first  demonstrated  experimentally  by   दाउद  Kemp in 1978  और   otoacoustic   emissions  have  चूंकि  been shown  to   उठता  by a number  of   अलग   सेल्यूलर   mechanisms  within the  भीतरी   कान  .
अध्ययन  have  दिखाया  that OAEs disappear after  the   भीतरी  ear has  महरूम   क्षतिग्रस्त  , so OAEs  हैं   प्रायः   प्रयुक्त  in the laboratory  और   the  clinic as  a  measure of inner  कान  health .
Broadly  बोलना   ,  there are  दो   प्रकार  of otoacoustic  emissions  :  spontaneous   otoacoustic  emissions  (  SOAEs ) , which can occur without  बाह्य   उत्तेजनाओं  ,  और   जगाई  otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs ) ,  जिससे   आवश्यकता  an evoking stimulus  .
Hurricane  टॉमस   थी   the  nineteenth named  तूफ़ान  and  बारहवीं  hurricane of the  2010  Atlantic hurricane  ऋतु  .
Tomas  विकसित  from a  तीव्र  wave east  of   the   windward   आइलैंड्स  on  अक्तूबर   29  .
Quickly intensifying into  a   hurricane  , it moved through the Windward  आइलैंड्स  and passed very near Saint  लूसिया   .
After reaching Category 2  औकात   on  the  saffir-simpson   स्केल   ,  Tomas quickly weakened  to  a tropical storm in the  सेंट्रल  Caribbean  समुद्र   ,  due to strong wind  shear  and dry  एयर   .
Tomas  बाद   regained   hurricane  status as it  reorganized  near the  windward  passage .
Throughout the hurricane  's  path , 71 people  हैं   ज्ञात   to  have  महरूम  killed  ,  14 of whom  यहूद  in Saint Lucia .
Monetary  नुकसान   throughout  the  windward   आइलैंड्स   यहूद  estimated at  us  $ 588 million , mainly  in   संत  Lucia .
In  the  wake of the storm in Haiti ,  बाढ़  intensified an ongoing  हैजा  outbreak  indirectly  causing more  fatalities  .
According to  a  report released  in  December  2010  ,  55   लोगों   यहूद  killed in  क्यूबा   और   hispanola   ,  though the distribution  of  these fatalities are unknown  .
Overall damage from the storm was at least  $   741   लाख  .
Victoria  जैक्सन  (  born  August  2   ,  1959 ) is an American  हास्य   ,  actress  ,  satirist , singer and internet blogger best  ज्ञात  as a  डाल  member of the NBC  टेलीविज़न  sketch  कॉमेडी  series  शनिवार   रात्रि  Live (  एसएनएल   )   इससे  1986  to   1992  .
वो  has  प्राप्त   ध्यान  as  a  vocal  आलोचक  of President  बराक  Obama , and is an  क्रियाशील  participant in the Tea Party  गति  .
postmodern  literature is  साहित्य  characterized by  भारी  reliance  on   तकनीकों  like fragmentation ,  विरोधाभास  , and  questionable   narrators  , and is often ( though not exclusively )  पारिभाषित   as  a style or trend which emerged  in   the   post–world   युद्ध   ii  era .
postmodern  works are  देखी   as   a  reaction against  आत्मज्ञान  thinking  और   modernist  approaches to literature  .
Postmodern  साहित्य  , like  postmodernism   as  a whole , tends  to   resist   परिभाषा  or classification as a ``  गति   ''  .
Indeed  ,  the  अभिसरण   of   postmodern  literature  साथ  various  मोड्स   of  critical theory , particularly  reader-response  and deconstructionist  approaches  , and the  subversions  of the  अव्यक्त  contract  between  author , text and reader by which  इसके  works  हैं  often characterised , have led to pre-modern  fictions   ऐसे  as Cervantes ' Don Quixote ( 1605,1615  )   और   laurence  Sterne  's  eighteenth-century satire Tristram Shandy being  retrospectively   inducted  into the  मोड़ें  .
While there is little  सर्वसम्मति  on  the  precise characteristics ,  पैमाना   ,   और  importance  of  postmodern  साहित्य   ,  as  is  often  the   मामला  with  कलाकारी   आंदोलनों   ,  postmodern  साहित्य  is commonly defined  in  relation to a precursor .
For example  ,   a   postmodern   साहित्यिक  work tends  नहीं  to conclude with the neatly  tied-up  ending as is often  मिला  in  modernist  literature  ,  but  प्रायः   parodies   it  .
postmodern  authors tend to celebrate  मौका  over craft , and further  employ  metafiction  to   undermine   the   लेखक   's  authority .
Another  characteristic   of  postmodern  साहित्य  is the questioning of distinctions between high  और  low  संस्कृति   through  the use of pastiche ,  the   संयोजन  of subjects and genres not  previously  deemed fit  लिये  literature  .
Enigma is an electronic musical  प्रोजेक्ट  founded in  जर्मनी  by Michael  cretu  , David Fairstein  और  Frank  पीटरसन   in  1990 .
The Romanian-born Cretu conceived the  पहेली  project while working in  जर्मनी   ,   लकिन   आधारित  his  रिकॉर्डिंग  studio A.R.T .  studios   in  Ibiza , Spain  ,  from  the  early 1990s until May  2009  , where he has recorded  सब  of Enigma  's  studio releases to date .
Cretu  is  both the composer and  the   निर्माता  of the project  .
His  पूर्व  wife  ,   पॉप   सिंगर  Sandra  ,   प्रायः  provided  vocals  on  पहेली  tracks .
Jens  gad   co-arranged  and  निभाई  guitar on three of the Enigma albums .
पीटर  Cornelius also contributed  to  Enigma  दौरान  the 1990s  .
Seven studio albums have  महरूम  produced  अंतर्गत   the   नाम  of the project .
scooby-doo   is  an American animated cartoon franchise  ,  comprising  अनेक   एनिमेटेड  television series produced from  1969  to the present  दिन   .
The  असली   श्रेणी  , Scooby-Doo , Where Are  तुम   !
,   थी  created for Hanna-Barbera Productions by writers Joe  माणिक्य  and Ken Spears  in  1969 .
This Saturday morning  कार्टून  series  प्रदर्शित  four teenagers—  फ्रेड  Jones  ,  Daphne  ब्लेक  , Velma Dinkley ,  और  Norville  ``   shaggy  '' Rogers  —   और  their talking brown  ग्रेट   डेन   श्वान  named Scooby-Doo , who solve mysteries  involving  supposedly supernatural  जीव  through  a  series  of   हरकतों   और   missteps   .
following  the success of the original series  ,   hanna-barbera  and  इसके  successor Warner  ब्रदर्स   .  Animation  have   उत्पादित   numerous  follow-up and  spin-off  animated series and several related  works  , including television  specials  and  telefilms  , a  लकीर  of  direct-to-video  films , and  दो   warner   भाईs.  –produced  नाट्य  feature films .
कुछ   संस्करण   of  Scooby-Doo feature different variations  on   the   दिखाएँ   's  supernatural theme ,  और   शामिल  characters such as Scooby  's  cousin  scooby-dum  and  भतीजे  Scrappy-Doo in  जोड  to  or   बजाय  of some of the original characters .
scooby-doo   थी  originally broadcast on CBS  इससे  1969 to 1976  ,  when  it   स्थानांतरित  to  एबीसी  .
एबीसी  aired the show  जबतक   canceling  it  in  1986 ,  और   प्रस्तुत  a  spin-off  featuring the  वर्ण   as   children  , A  pup   नामित   scooby-doo  , from 1988 until  1991  .
Two new  scooby-doo  series , What  's   नई  , Scooby-Doo  ?
and Shaggy and Scooby-Doo  मिलेंगी  a  a  Clue  !  ] ]  ,  aired  as   भाग  of  बच्चे   wb  on The WB  संजाल  and its successor  ,  The CW network , from 2002  जबतक  2008  .
the  most recent  scooby-doo  series ,  scooby-doo   !
रहस्य  Incorporated , aired on  कार्टून   संजाल  from 2010  to   2013   .
दोहराव   of  the various Scooby-Doo  श्रेणी  are broadcast  अक्सर  on  कार्टून  Network and Boomerang in the United States and other countries  .
Call of Duty is a first-person  और   third-person  shooter  computer/  video game franchise .
the  series began on the PC , and later expanded  to  consoles and handhelds .
अनेक  spin-off games  have  also been  released  .
the   पहले   खेल  in the series  हैं   नियत  primarily  in   संसार   युद्ध   ii  ,  इस  includes :  कॉल  of  ड्यूटी  , Call of  ड्यूटी   2  , and Call  of  Duty  3   .
Beginning  साथ   आधुनिक   warfare   ,   जिससे  is set  in  modern  टाइम्स  ,  the  series has shifted  फ़ोकस  away  इससे   संसार   युद्ध  II .
Call  of  Duty  4  : Modern Warfare ( released November 2007 ) was  followed  by Call of  ड्यूटी   :  World  at  War  और  Call of Duty  :  Modern  warfare   2  .
Black Ops  (  released  नवम्बर  2010  )  takes  प्लेस   in  the  ठंडा   युद्ध  , while  आधुनिक  Warfare  3  ( released November  2011  ) takes place  in   the   near-future   सेटिंग  .
Black Ops 2 ( Released  नवम्बर  13 , 2012  )  takes  प्लेस   in   the  year 2025  .
the  Call  of  Duty  खेल  are published and  स्वामित्व  by Activision with Aspyr Media publishing  it   लिये   ठहराना  OS X  .
While the  स्टुडियो  Infinity  वार्ड  primarily still  develops   उन्हें  , Treyarch has  भी   विकसित   अनेक  of the  शीर्षक  with the release  of  the studios '  खेल  interlaced with  प्रत्येक   अन्य   .
Some games  have  been  विकसित   by  Gray Matter  इंटरैक्टिव  ,  चिंगारी  Unlimited , Amaze  entertainment  , n-Space , Rebellion Developments  ,   ideaworks   खेल  Studio  ,   sledgehammer  Games and nStigate  खेल  .
the   खेल   उपयोग   a   किस्में   of   इंजन   ,  including the id Tech 3 , the Treyarch NGL ,  और  the  iw  5.0  .
Other products in the  मताधिकार  include  a  line of action figures  designed  by Plan-B Toys , a  कार्ड  game  निर्मित  by  अपर  Deck  ,  and a  कॉमिक   किताब  mini-series  प्रकाशित   by  WildStorm .
As  of   नवम्बर   11  , 2011  ,  the  कॉल  Of Duty  श्रेणी  have  बेची   over  100  लाख  copies .
As of  कूच  31 , 2012 there  हैं  40  लाख  monthly  क्रियाशील   खिलाड़ी   आरपार   सब   of  the  कॉल   of   ड्यूटी   शीर्षक   ,   साथ   10   लाख  Call of  ड्यूटी  : Elite users and  2  million  paying  annual members .
Over  1.6  billion  घंटों  of online  gameplay  have been  logged  Modern  warfare   3   चूंकि   इसके   2011  release  .
the  estate  कर  in  the  United  राज्य   is   a   कर   imposed   on   the   ट्रांसफ़र  of the `` taxable  एस्टेट  `` of  a   मृतक  person  ,   whether  such property is transferred  via  a  होगा   ,   according   to   the  state laws of intestacy or otherwise made as an incident  of   the  death  of   the   मालिक   ,  such as a  ट्रांसफ़र   of  property from  an  intestate  एस्टेट  or  विश्वास  , or  the  payment of  निश्चित   जीवन  insurance benefits  or   वित्तीय   खाता   रकम  to beneficiaries .
The estate tax is  एक  part of the Unified Gift and  एस्टेट  Tax  प्रणाली  in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  .
The  अन्य   भाग   of   the  system  ,  the  तोहफा   कर  , imposes a tax on transfers of property  दौरान  a person 's life  ;  the  तोहफा   कर  prevents  avoidance   of  the estate  कर  should  a   व्यक्ति   want  to give away  his/her  estate  .
In  जोड  to  the  federal government , many states  भी  impose an  एस्टेट  tax ,  साथ   the   राज्य  version called either an estate tax  or  an  उत्तराधिकार  tax .
Opponents  of  the  एस्टेट  tax call it the  ``  death tax ''  .
If an  एसेट  is left  to  a spouse or  a   federally  recognized  दान   ,  the tax usually  करता  not  लागू   .
in  addition  ,  up  to  $  5,250,000  can be  दिए  by an individual , before and/or upon their death , without  रूष्ट   संघीय   तोहफा  or  एस्टेट  taxes .
Gavin  मैकग्रेगर  Rossdale (  born   30   अक्तूबर  1967  )  is  an  English  कर्ता   और  musician , known as  the   सीसे  singer and  लय  guitarist of the rock band  बुश  .
Following  बुश  's separation in 2002  ,   जिससे   lasted  for eight  सालो  , he was  the  lead singer and guitarist  लिये   संस्थान   ,   और   बाद  began  a  solo  करियर  .
When  performing   सोलो   ,  Gavin plays  गीतों   इससे   उसके   extensive  musical libraries .
rossdale   रै   महरूम   क्रमित   in  the  शीर्ष  100  भारी   मेटल  Vocalists by Hit Parader ( #  75  )  .
raffaello  Sanzio da Urbino  (   अप्रैल  6 or March 28  ,  1483 –  अप्रैल  6 ,  1520   )  ,  बेहतर   ज्ञात   बस   as   राफेल   ,   थी  an  इतालवी   चित्रकार  and architect  of  the High Renaissance .
His  कार्य  is admired  लिये  its clarity of form  और  ease  of  composition and for  इसके   विज़ुअल   उपलब्धि  of the Neoplatonic  आदर्श  of  इंसान  grandeur  .
साथ  with  michelangelo   और  Leonardo da Vinci , he forms  the  traditional trinity of  ग्रेट  masters of  कि  period .
राफेल  was enormously productive  ,  running an  unusually  large workshop , and  despite   उसके  death at 37  ,  a large body of  उसके  work  remains  .
अनेक  of his  works  are  मिला  in  the   वेटिकन  Palace , where the frescoed  राफेल   कक्ष  were the central  ,   और   the  largest , work  of  his career  .
the  best known work is  the   स्कूल   of   एथेंस  in the Vatican Stanza della  segnatura  .
After  उसके  early years  in  Rome much of his work was self-designed ,  लकिन   लिये  the most part executed by the workshop  इससे   उसके  drawings , with  considerable   घाटा  of quality .
He was extremely  influential   in  his lifetime , though  बाहर  Rome  उसके  work was mostly known  इससे  his  collaborative  printmaking .
After  उसके  death  ,  the influence of his  ग्रेट  rival  michelangelo  was  अधिक   फैली  until  the   18th  and 19th  सदियां   ,  when  राफेल   's  more  निर्मल  and harmonious qualities  यहूद  again regarded as  the  highest  मॉडल   .
His career  जलप्रपात  naturally into three phases and three  शैलियाँ  , first  वर्णित  by Giorgio Vasari :  उसके   जल्दी  years in Umbria  ,  then  a   काल  of  परिचय  four years (  इससे   1504–1508  )  absorbing  the  कलाकारी  traditions  of  Florence  ,  followed by his  पिछला  hectic  और  triumphant twelve years  in   रोम   ,   working  for  दो  Popes and  उनके  close associates  .
Julia Fiona  रॉबर्ट्स   (   born   अक्तूबर  28 , 1967 )  is  an American  अभिनेत्री   .
वो  became a  हॉलीवुड  star after  headlining  the romantic  कॉमेडी  Pretty Woman  (   1990   )  , which grossed $ 464 million  विश्वव्यापी  .
After  receiving  Golden  ग्लोब   पुरस्कार   और  Academy Award nominations for Steel  magnolias  (  1989   )  and Pretty Woman ,  वो   जीती   the   अकादमी   पुरस्कार   लिये  Best Actress for  उसके  performance in  एरिन  Brockovich (  2000  ) .
उसके  films  the  Pelican  ब्रैड  ( 1993  )  ,  my  Best  dost   's  Wedding (  1997  )  ,   रहस्यवादी  Pizza ( 1988  )  , Notting  हिल  ( 1999 ) , Runaway  बहू  ( 1999  )  ,  समंदर   's  Eleven  (   2001   )   ,   समंदर   's  Twelve (  2004  ) ,  चार्ली  Wilson 's War ( 2007 ) , Valentine 's Day (  2010   )   ,  Eat Pray  प्रेम   (  2010  )   ,   और  Mirror Mirror ( 2012 ) have  collectively   brought   बक्सा   दफ्तर  receipts of over  $  2.6  अरब  ,  बनाना  her  एक   of  the most successful actresses  in  terms of  बक्सा  office receipts .
Roberts had  become  one of the highest-paid actresses in the  संसार  ,  टॉपिंग  The Hollywood Reporters annual `` power  सूची  '' of top-earning female stars  इससे  2005  to   2006   .
Her  शुल्क  for 1990 's Pretty  स्त्री  was $  300,000  ;  in  2003  ,   वो  was  सशुल्क  an  unprecedented  $  25  million  लिये  her role in Mona  लिसा  Smile  (   2003  )  .
As  of   2010  , Roberts 's net worth was estimated  to  be $  140  million  .
रॉबर्ट्स   रै   महरूम  named one  of  People  पत्रिका   's  `` 50 Most Beautiful People  in   the  World '' eleven  टाइम्स  ,  tied   साथ  Halle Berry  .
In 2011  ,  she was named one  of  the `` 100  hottest  Women  of  All-Time  ''  by  मेन  's Health .
In 2001 , Ladies  घर  Journal ranked her  as  the  11th  most powerful  स्त्री  in the United States  .
चिह्नित   इलियट  Zuckerberg (  born  May 14  ,  1984  )  is an  अमरीकी   कंप्यूटर  programmer  और   अंतरजाल   उद्योगों   .
He is  बेहतरीन  known as one  of   पाँच  co-founders of  the  social  नेटवर्किंग   जालस्थल   फेसबुक  .
As  of  April 2013  ,  Zuckerberg  is  the  अध्यक्ष  and chief executive  of  Facebook , Inc. and in 2013  उसके  personal  माल   थी  estimated to be US $  13   .3   अरब  .
साथ   साथ   उसके   कॉलेज   roommates   और  fellow Harvard  विश्वविद्यालयों  students Eduardo  saverin  , Andrew McCollum , Dustin  moskovitz   और  Chris Hughes ,  zuckerberg  launched  फेसबुक   इससे   हार्वर्ड   's  dormitory  कक्ष  .
The group  तब   introduced   फेसबुक  onto  अन्य  campuses nationwide and moved to Palo  आल्टो  , California , United  राज्य  ( U.S.  )   shortly   afterwards  .
in  2007 ,  at  the age of twenty-three years  ,  Zuckerberg became a  अरबपति   as  a  परिणाम  of Facebook  और   the   क्रमांक   of  Facebook users worldwide  पहुँचे  a  कुल  of one  अरब  in  2012   .
Zuckerberg was involved in  विभिन्न  legal  विवादों   कि   यहूद   initiated  by others  in   the  group , who claimed  a  share  of  the company based  upon  their  भागीदारी   दौरान  the development  phase   of  Facebook  .
Since  2010   ,   zuckerberg  has  महरूम   नामित  among the 100  wealthiest  and most influential  लोगों  in the world  by  Time  पत्रिका  as a  भाग   of  its  व्यक्ति   of   the  Year  accolade  .
Zuckerberg was played by  कर्ता   जेसी  Eisenberg in  the  2010 Hollywood film  the  Social  संजाल   in   जिससे   the  rise of Facebook is portrayed .
the   mayflower  was the  जलयान  that  in   1620   transported  102  अंग्रेज़ी   तीर्थयात्रियों  , including a core group of  separatists   ,  to  नई  England .
Their story is one of  travail   और  survival in a  हर्ष   नई   संसार   पर्यावरण  .
framedThe
Committee  of  Ways and  अर्थात्  is  the  chief tax  -writing  committee  of  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  House  of   प्रतिनिधि  .
Members of  the  Ways and Means Committee are not allowed to serve on any  अन्य   हाउस  Committees unless they apply  लिये  a  waiver   इससे   उनके   पार्टी   's  congressional leadership  .
The  कमेटी  has  क्षेत्राधिकार   over  all taxation ,  tariffs  and other  revenue-raising  measures , as well as a number  of  other programs  including:
Social Security
Unemployment benefits
Medicare
Enforcement  of  child  support  laws
अस्थाई  Assistance for  मोहताज  Families  ,  a federal welfare program
फोस्टर  care and adoption programs
The U.S.  संविधान  requires that  सब   बिल्स  regarding  कराधान  must  originate   in  the House  of  Representatives .
चूंकि  House  कार्यविधि  is  कि  all bills  regarding  taxation must go  through  this committee , the committee  is  very influential , as is  इसके  Senate  बंटवारा  ,  the   u.S.   सीनेट  Committee  on  Finance .
The Ways  और   अर्थात्   कमेटी   in  the 111th Congress  थी   chaired   by  Charlie Rangel  ,   जो   था   लिया   a   छोड़  of  अनुपस्थिति  as chairman  जबतक   हाउस   आचार  violations  यहूद   resolved  .
However ,  उसके  leave of absence  as  chairman  थी   शासित   to  be a  इस्तीफा   .
पीट  Stark resigned as  एक्टिंग   अध्यक्ष   ,   so  Sander  levin  held that position  जबतक  the start of  the  112th  कॉंग्रेस   .
Dave Camp became the  कमेटी   कुर्सी   लिये  the  112th   कॉंग्रेस  ,  बाद  the Republicans  जीती  control of the House  in  the  2010  election  .
The blue whale  (  Balaenoptera musculus ) is a  समुद्री  mammal  belonging  to  the  suborder of  baleen  whales ( called  mysticeti   )   .
At  in   लंबाई  and or  अधिक   in  weight , it is  the   largest  known animal to  have  ever  existed   .
Long and  slender  , the  ब्लू   व्हेल  's body can be various  शेड्स   of  bluish-grey dorsally and  somewhat   हल्का  underneath  .
There are  at  least  तीन   पृथक   subspecies  :  B.  m. musculus of  the  North  अटलांटिक  and North Pacific  ,   B.  m. intermedia of the  दक्षिणी  Ocean  और   B.  m.  brevicauda  ( also  ज्ञात   as  the pygmy  ब्लू  whale  )   मिला  in the  भारतीय   समंदर  and  दक्षिण   प्रशांत  Ocean .
B.  m.  indica  ,   मिला  in the  भारतीय   समंदर   ,  may be another subspecies .
As  साथ  other  baleen  whales  ,  its  आहार   consists  almost  exclusively  of  छोटी  crustaceans known  as  krill  .
ब्लू  whales  यहूद  abundant in  nearly  all  the  oceans  on   धरती   जबतक   the  beginning  of  the twentieth  सदी  .
For over  a   सदी  ,  वे   यहूद   hunted   लगभग  to  extinction  by whalers  जबतक   सुरक्षित   by   the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  community in 1966  .
a  2002 report estimated  वहीँ   यहूद  5,000 to 12,000  ब्लू   whales  worldwide  ,  located in  at   तनिक  five groups  .
अधिक   हाल  research  into   the  Pygmy  subspecies   suggests   इस  may  be  an underestimate  .
Before whaling  ,   the  largest  जनसांख्यिकी   थी  in the Antarctic ,  क्रमांकन  approximately  239,000  ( range 202,000  to   311,000   )  .
वहीँ  remain only much  छोटी   (   around   2,000   )   एकाग्रता  in each  of  the  पूर्वी   उत्तर   प्रशांत  , Antarctic , and Indian Ocean groups .
There are  दो  more groups in  the  North  अटलांटिक  , and at  तनिक   दो  in the  दक्षिणी  Hemisphere .
the  globe artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus  var   .   scolymus  ) is a  किस्में  of a  प्रजाति  of thistle  cultivated  as  a  food  .
The  खाद्य  matter is buds  कि   रूप  within the flower  heads  before the  पुष्प  come into bloom .
the  buds go away or change to a  coarse   ,   मुश्किल  edible form  जब   the   पुष्प  blooms .
the  uncultivated or  जंगली  variety of the species is  पुकारा   a  cardoon .
it  is a perennial plant native to the  भूमध्यसागरीय   प्रदेश   .
the  United  राज्य  one  hundred-dollar  bill ( $ 100  )  is a  denomination  of United States currency .
u.S.  statesman , inventor , and diplomat  बेंजामिन  Franklin is currently  प्रदर्शित  on the obverse  of   the  bill  .
On  the  reverse of the  banknote  is an image of Independence Hall  .
the  $ 100 bill  is  the  largest  denomination that has  महरूम  printed  चूंकि  July 13  ,   1969   ,  when  the  denominations of $  500  ,  $  1,000 , $ 5,000 ,  और  $ 10,000  यहूद  retired .
The Bureau of  नक्काशी  and Printing says the average  जीवन  of  a  $  100   विधेयक   in   परिसंचरण  is  90   महीने   (  7.5 years ) before it is replaced due  to   पहनें  and tear .
The  बिल्स   हैं   भी  commonly referred  to  as ``  benjamins  '' , in  सन्दर्भ  to  the  use  of   बेंजामिन  Franklin 's  पोर्ट्रेट   on   the   denomination  ,  or   ``  C-Notes '' , based  on   the  Roman numeral for 100 .
The  विधेयक  is one of two denominations  मुद्रित   आज   कि  does  नहीं   विशेषता   a   अध्यक्ष   of   the  United States  ;  the  अन्य  is  the  $  10  bill  ,  featuring  सिकंदर  Hamilton .
The time on the  क्लॉक  of Independence Hall on the  रिवर्स  , according to  the   u.S.  Bureau  of  Engraving and Printing  ,  shows approximately  4:10  .
One  सौ   hundred-dollar  bills are delivered  by  Federal Reserve Banks in  mustard-colored  straps ( $ 10,000 ) .
The  श्रेणी  2009 $ 100 bill redesign was unveiled  on  April 21 ,  2010   ,  and  थी  to  be   जारी  to the  पब्लिक   on  February  11   ,  2011  ,  but  उत्पादन  was shut down in  दिसम्बर   2010  because as many as 30  %   यहूद  unusable  due   to   a  manufacturing flaw .
A  लंबवत  crease  in  the paper reveals  a  blank space on the bill  जब   खींचा  out  .
In  उनके   बदलना  , and continuing the high  माँग   of  this denomination  ,  the Series  2006a  was launched retaining the  पिछला  design ( 1996-generation  )   .
on   अप्रैल  24  ,   2013  , the Federal  आरक्षित  announced the new $ 100 bill would enter  परिसंचरण  on October 8  ,   2013   .
King David in  robes  of  a  Byzantine  सम्राट   .
Miniature  इससे   the  Paris  psalter  .
दाउद  ( ; ISO  259-3  Dawid ;  '  ; Strong 's  :   daveed   )   according  to the Hebrew  बाइबल   ,  was  the  second  किंग  of  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom  of   इसराईल   ,  and according to  the  New  वसीयत  Gospels of Matthew  और  Luke , an ancestor of  यीशु   .
His life is  conventionally  dated to c.  1040–970   bce  , his reign over Judah  c.  1010–1002  bce  ,  और  his reign  over   the  United Kingdom of Israel  c.   1002–970  BCE .
The Books of Samuel  ,   1  Kings  ,   और  1  क्रॉनिकल्स  are  the  only sources of  सूचना  on  दाउद  , although the Tel Dan stele  (  dated c.  850–835   bce  )  contains  the  phrase   (   bytdwd  ) ,  पढ़ा  as `` House  of  David '' , which most scholars  लो   as  confirmation  of  the  अस्तित्व   in  the  mid-9th   सदी   bce   of   a   judean   royal   राजवंश  called the House of  दाउद  .
He is depicted  as  a righteous king  ,  although  नहीं   बगैर   त्रुटियां   ,   as   खूब  as an  acclaimed   योद्धा  , musician ,  और   कवि   ,   traditionally   credited  for composing many of  the  psalms  contained   in  the Book  of   ज़बूर  .
दाउद   is  central  to   यहूदी  ,  ईसाई  , and Islamic doctrine and culture  .
Biblical tradition  maintains  that a  सीधा  descendant of  दाउद   होगा  be the Messiah  .
in   islam  he is considered  to  be a prophet  और   the  king  of   a  nation  .
Kathmandu (  ;  ) is  the  capital  और   largest  urban agglomerate of  नेपाल  .
the  agglomerate  consists  of Kathmandu  महानगर   नगर  at  इसके  core , and  इसके  sister cities Patan , Kirtipur ,  thimi  , and Bhaktapur .
It  भी   शामिल  the recently recognized urban areas of  shankhapur  , Karyabinayak ,  और   champapur  .
Banepa ,  dhulikhel  ,  और  Panauti  हैं  satellite  शहरी   क्षेत्रों   of   काठमांडू  located just outside the Kathmandu  घाटी  .
Kathmandu  is   भी  known informally as `` KTM  ''   or  the  ``   tri-city  ''  .
according   to   a  census  conducted  in 2011 ,  काठमांडू  metropolis alone has 975,453 inhabitants ; and the  agglomerate  has a population of more  than  2.5 million  निवासियों   .
The  महानगर  city area  is   और  has a population density  of  19,250  प्रति   km2  .
the   नगर   स्टैंड  at an  उन्नयन  of approximately in the bowl-shaped Kathmandu  घाटी   of   सेंट्रल  Nepal .
It  is   घिरी   by   चार  major  kyu   :  Shivapuri , Phulchoki  ,   nagarjun   ,  and Chandragiri .
Kathmandu Valley is  भाग   of   तीन  districts (  काठमांडू   ,  Lalitpur ,  और  Bhaktapur  )   ,  has the highest population  घनत्व   in   the  country , and  is   घर  to about a twelfth of  नेपाल  's  जनसांख्यिकी  .
During Rana  और   शाह   eras   ,   the   नाम  `` Nepal '' referred  तभी  to  the  Kathmandu Valley ;  it  was what people who  जिया   बाहर   the  valley called it .
During  इस  period  ,  British historians  पुकारा  the valley itself ``  नेपाल  Proper '' .
Today , Kathmandu  is  not only  the  capital of  the   संघीय  Democratic Republic  of  Nepal , but also the headquarters  of  the  सेंट्रल   विकास  Region of  नेपाल   .
the  Central  प्रदेश  comprises three  zones   :   bagmati   ,  Narayani  ,  and Janakpur .
काठमांडू   is  located in the  bagmati   मण्डल   .
Kathmandu  is   the  gateway  to   पर्यटन  in Nepal .
It is also the nerve  बीच  of  the  country  's  economy .
it  has the most  उन्नत   अवसंरचना   of  any urban area in Nepal , and its  अर्थव्यवस्था   is  focused on tourism , which accounted for  3.8  %  of  Nepal  's  GDP in  1995–96   .
( Tourism in  काठमांडू  declined  thereafter  during a  काल   of   राजनैतिक   अशांति  ,  लकिन   चूंकि  then  रै  improved . )
The city has a rich  इतिहास  ,  spanning  nearly  2000   सालो  ,  as   inferred  from  inscriptions   मिला  in  the  valley .
धार्मिक  and cultural  festivities  form a major  भाग   of   the   जीवनदान  of people residing in Kathmandu  .
सबसे  of Kathmandu  's  people follow  हिंदुत्व   और   अनेक   अन्य  follow Buddhism  .
There are people of other religious beliefs as well  ,   giving   काठमांडू  a cosmopolitan  संस्कृति   .
Nepali is the most  commonly  spoken  भाषा  in  the  city .
नेपाल   bhasa   is  the indigenous language spoken by  the  Newar people .
हिंदी   is   widely  understood and  अंग्रेज़ी  is  समझा   by   काठमांडू  's educated residents .
The  नगर  's literacy  रेट  is 98 %  .
Kathmandu 's sister  शहरों  (  ललितपुर  Patan ) and Bhaktapur are  अभिन्न  to Kathmandu 's  सांस्कृतिक  heritage  ,  tourism industry , and economy  ;   इसलिए   युनेस्को  's  संसार   विरासत  Site  सूचियाँ  all three cities ' monuments  और   आकर्षण  together under  एक  heading  ,  ``  काठमांडू  Valley-  युनेस्को   संसार  Heritage  साईट  ``  .
Field hockey  ,  usually  referred  to simply as  हॉकी  ,  is   a  team sport of the  हॉकी  family which is  निभाई  between  दो  teams  of  eleven players  साथ  hockey sticks  और   a  hard , solid  प्लास्टिक  ball  .
at  the  फेरे  of the 21st  सदी   ,  the game  is  played globally  ,  with particular  लोकप्रियता   throughout  Europe ,  एशिया  , Oceania  ,   और   दक्षिण  America – in  जोड  to  होने  the  नेशनल   खेल  of  पाकिस्तानी  and India .
The term `` field hockey ''  is   प्रयुक्त   primarily  in Canada ,  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   ,  and  अन्य  regions of  the  world where the  खेल   of  ice hockey  is  more popular .
During  खेल  , goal  keepers  are  the  only  खिलाड़ी  who are allowed to touch  the  ball with any  भाग   of  their  देह   (   साथ  the  एक्सेप्शन  of  a  player  's  hand  माना   'part   of  the stick '  )  , with  इस  only  applying  within  the   शूटिंग   वृत्त  ( also known  as  the  d  , or shooting arc ,  or  just the circle ) , while field  खिलाड़ी   खेल  the ball with  the  flat side  of   उनके  stick .
the  team that scores  the  most goals  by   the   समाप्त  of the  मैच   विन्स   .
if   the  score  is   tied  at the end of  the  game  ,   either   a   चित्रण  is declared  or  the game  goes   into  extra  समय  and/or  a   दंड  shootout ,  depending  on the  प्रतियोगिता   's   स्वरूप   .
The governing  देह   of   हॉकी  is the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Hockey  संघ   (   fih  )  ,   साथ   मेन   और   महिलाओं   होने  represented internationally in  प्रतियोगिताओं  including the  ओलम्पिक   खेल   ,  Commonwealth games  ,   हॉकी  World  कप  ,  champions  Trophy and Junior Hockey  संसार  Cup , with  अनेक  countries running  extensive  junior , senior , and  मास्टर्स   '   क्लबों   प्रतियोगिताओं  .
The  fih  is also  जिम्मेदार  for  organising  the  हॉकी   नियम  Board and developing  the  rules  लिये   the  sport  .
A popular  रूपांतर  of field hockey is indoor  हॉकी  ,  जिससे  differs in  a   क्रमांक  of respects  जबकि  embodying the primary principles of hockey  .
अंदर   हॉकी   is   a   6-a-side  variant ,  साथ   a  field which  is   घटाया   to  approximately  40m  × 20m .
साथ  many of the rules  बाकी  the  वही  , including obstruction and feet , there  हैं  several  कुंजी  variations  -  Players  may  not raise  the  ball unless shooting  on   लक्ष्य   ,  players may not hit  the   बॉल  ( instead utilising pushes to transfer the  बॉल  ) , and  the  sidelines are replaced  साथ  solid barriers which  the  ball will rebound  बंद   .
Ethan ``  cane  ''  ashby  ( né Atkinson  )   is  a fictional character  इससे  the American  सीबीएस  soap opera The Young and the  बेचैन   .
he  is  portrayed  by Australian  कर्ता  Daniel  गोडार्ड  , who originally  auditioned   लिये  Brad Snyder on  as  the World Turns but was recommended for a  भूमिका  on  the  Young  और  the Restless  बजाय   .
the   भूमिका   थी  to  be  portrayed  as  an American ,  लकिन  Goddard 's Australian descent  बहकावे  the  अक्षर   's   पृष्ठभूमि  .
Former head  लेखक  Lynn Marie Latham introduced him during the episode airing  on  January 12 , 2007 as  an  Australian bartender in search of his family  ,  a  डेब्यू  that received  a   मिश्रित  response .
लैथम   निर्मित  Cane  as  the son of  फिलिप  Chancellor II  (  Donnelly Rhodes ) and Jill  फोस्टर  Abbott  (   जेस   वाल्टन  )  लकिन  the character 's  पृष्ठभूमि   थी  rewritten by  मरिया   एरिना   घंटी   in   2009   ,   reestablishing   उसे   as   the   बेटे   of   कोलिन   और  Genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers  और   जिनी  Francis ) .
Though characterized as  ``  mysterious  ''  ,  cane   is  ``  वफ़ादार   और  dedicated '' ,  जबकि   गोडार्ड  described  the  character  as  a  ``   ठेठ  Australian  ,  working-class  दयालु  of  guy   ''  .
He was the first member  of  the  एटकिन्सन  family to  appear  on  the   श्रेणी  ,  followed   by   उसके  parents  और   एकसमान  twin brother .
Soon  बाद   उसके   डेब्यू   ,   he  became a leading  अक्षर   ,  a  निर्णय  praised by  दर्शक  and  आलोचकों  .
The character  रै  been involved with  एम्बर  Moore  (  Adrienne  frantz   )  ,  क्लो  Mitchell ( Elizabeth Hendrickson )  और   सबसे  notably Lily  सर्दियों  ( Christel  खलील  ) ,  a   रोमांस   कि   garnered  significant fan  ध्यान  .
In  2009  , Cane  और  Lily were married ;  वैश्विक  BC  होता   बाद  call  लिली  the  प्रेम  of Cane 's  जीवन  .
The pair  था   दो  children , Charlie and Mattie Ashby  .
In  2011  ,  the  actor was fired ,  और  Cane  थी   शॉट   to   मौत  onscreen .
however   ,   गोडार्ड  was rehired  जल्द  after viewers campaigned  लिये  his return ,  revealing  that Cane 's  एकसमान  twin  bhai  was in fact the  man  who  died   .
इस  sacrificed his  विवाह  to Lily ,  लकिन  the  युगल   यहूद  remarried  on   वेलेंटाइन   's   दिन  in  2012  .
Goddard has been widely  acclaimed  for his  portrayal  ; Canyon News said  कि   he  portrays the character  honestly  ,  और   is  `` always dependable ,  on  fire  और  exciting '' .
John Christopher  ``  Johnny  ''   डेप  II  (  born  जून  9  ,  1963 ) is  an  American actor  ,   फिल्मी  producer  ,  and musician .
he  has  जीती  the  सुनहरी   ग्लोब   पुरस्कार  and  स्क्रीन   अभिनेताओं   गिल्ड  award  लिये   बेहतरीन  Actor .
Depp rose  to  prominence  on  the 1980s television series 21  जम्प  Street , becoming a teen  आइडल  .
Dissatisfied with that status ,  डेप  turned to film for  अधिक  challenging  भूमिकाएँ  ; he played the title character of  the  acclaimed  एडवर्ड   scissorhands   (  1990  )  and later found box  दफ्तर   कामयाबी  in films such as Sleepy  खोखला   (  1999 ) ,  चार्ली   और   the  Chocolate Factory  (   2005   )  , Alice in  वंडरलैंड  ( 2010 ) , Rango  (   2011  )  और   the  Pirates  of  the  caribbean   फिल्मी  series  (  2003–present  )  .
He has collaborated  साथ   निदेशक   और   dost  Tim Burton in  आठ   films  ; the most  हाल   होने  Dark  साए   (   2012   )  .
Depp has  gained  acclaim for  उसके  portrayals of such  लोगों  as  ed  Wood in  ed  Wood  ,  Joseph D.  pistone   in  Donnie  brasco   ,  Hunter S. Thompson in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas  ,  George Jung  in  Blow  ,  and  the   बैंको  robber  जॉन  Dillinger in  माइकल   मन   's  Public  दुश्मनों   .
Films featuring Depp have grossed  over   $  3.1 billion at  the  United States box office and over $ 7.6 billion worldwide  .
he   रै   महरूम   मनोनीत  for  शीर्ष   पुरस्कार  many times  ,  winning the Best Actor Awards  इससे  the  सुनहरी  –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy Globes –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy  लिये  Sweeney Todd : The  राक्षस   नाई   of  Fleet  गली   और   इससे  the Screen  अभिनेताओं   गिल्ड  for  pirates   of   the   caribbean  : The Curse  of  the Black  पर्ल   .
He also has  garnered  a  sex  symbol status in  अमरीकी  cinema , being twice named as the  ``   sexiest  Man  जिंदा   ``  by People  पत्रिका  in  2003   और   2009   .
He  रै   महरूम  listed  in   the  2012 Guinness  किताब   of   संसार  Records as the highest  सशुल्क  actor , with $ 75  लाख  .
The World  चौड़ी  Web  (  abbreviated  as   www   or  W3 , commonly known  as  the  वेब  ) , is a  प्रणाली   of  interlinked hypertext documents  पहुँचा  via the  अंतरजाल  .
With  a  web browser ,  एक  can  दृश्य  web  पृष्ठों   कि   may   contain  text ,  बिंब  , videos  ,  and  अन्य  multimedia ,  और  navigate  between  them  via  hyperlinks .
Using concepts  इससे  his  पहले  hypertext  प्रणालियों  like  enquire  , British engineer  ,  computer scientist and  at  that  समय  employee  of  the  cern  , Sir Tim  berners-lee  , now Director  of  the World  चौड़ी  Web Consortium (  w3c   )   ,   लिखा   a  proposal  in  March 1989  लिये  what would eventually  become  the  संसार  Wide Web .
At CERN , a European  शोध  organisation  निकट  Geneva straddling the border  between  France and  स्विट्ज़रलैंड  ,  berners-lee  and  belgian  computer scientist  रॉबर्ट  Cailliau  प्रस्तावित  in 1990 to use hypertext  ``  to  कड़ी   और  access  सूचना  of various kinds as a web of nodes in  जिससे   the  user can  ब्राउज़  at  होगा   ''  , and  वे  publicly  introduced  the project in December of the same  साल  .
Mark  ट्रैविस  John Sanchez (  born  November 11 , 1986 )  is  an American football quarterback  लिये  the  नई   यॉर्क  Jets of  the   नेशनल   फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL  )   .
He was  drafted   in  the first round of the 2009 NFL Draft as the  पांचवां   overall  selection  by  the Jets and the second quarterback taken overall  .
He played  कॉलेज  football  at  the University of Southern California ( USC )  .
सांचेज़  grew  up  in a well-disciplined  और  athletic family .
In the eighth  ग्रेड   ,  he  began  to play football and  सीख   the  intricacies  of   the   क्वार्टरबैक  position  ,  training with his father , Nick .
A well-regarded prospect , Sanchez committed  to  Southern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   following  his successful high  स्कूल  career in  जिससे   he   led  his team to a championship  शीर्षक  during his  फाइनल   ऋतु  .
At  यूएससी  ,  सांचेज़  was  relegated   as   the  backup quarterback  दौरान  his first three years though  he   रोज़  to prominence  due   to  his brief appearances on  the   फ़ील्ड   in   2007  due to  चोटों  suffered by  starting   क्वार्टरबैक  John David  बूटी   .
Sanchez also became popular within  the   जातियाँ  due to his  mexican-american   विरासत  .
Named  the   प्रारंभ  in 2008 ,  सांचेज़  led USC to a 12–1 record and won the Rose Bowl  विरूद्ध   penn   राज्य   लिये   जिससे  Sanchez was awarded  the  Most  मूल्यवान   खिलाड़ी  award  लिये  his  प्रदर्शन  on offense .
हालांकि  many considered him too inexperienced , Sanchez  घोषित   उसके  intention  to  enter the 2009 NFL Draft .
he   थी  selected by the  jets   बाद   वे   traded  up  साथ   the   क्लीवलैंड  Browns , and was  नामित   the   starting  quarterback prior  to  the start  of  the season .
despite  a  subpar  performance  ,  Sanchez led the Jets  to  the AFC  चैंपियनशिप  Game ,  a  losing  प्रयत्न  to the Indianapolis  कोल्टस   ,  becoming  the  fourth rookie  क्वार्टरबैक  in NFL  इतिहास   to   जीत   उसके   पहला   playoff   खेल   और  the second  to   जीत   दो  playoff  खेल  .
In his second  ऋतु   ,  Sanchez continued  to  develop and led the Jets  to  the playoffs  और   the   टोली  's second consecutive AFC  चैंपियनशिप   खेल   जहाँ  they narrowly lost  to  the Pittsburgh Steelers  ,  24–19 .
साथ  the win over  the  New England  देशप्रेमी   the  week prior , Sanchez  tied  four other quarterbacks  लिये  the second most post-season road victories by  a  quarterback in  एनएफएल  history .
in   अग्रणी  the Jets to  दो   लगातार   सम्मेलन  championships , Sanchez joined quarterback  बेन  Roethlisberger  as  the only  दो  quarterbacks  in  NFL history  to  reach the conference championship  in  their first  दो  seasons  in  the  लीग  .
the  next two seasons  होता  be a regression  लिये   दोनो   the  team  और  Sanchez as they failed  to   पहुँचें  the playoffs  .
Fans  और   मीडिया  critics called  लिये   a  struggling  सांचेज़  to be benched .
He  आखिरकार   थी  replaced  towards  the end of the 2012 season with Greg McElroy .
Paul Avery  (  April 2 , 1934December  10   ,  2000 ) was an American police  रिपोर्टर   ,   बेहतरीन   ज्ञात   लिये  his stories  on  the  infamous   सीरियल  killer  ज्ञात  as the Zodiac ,  और  later  लिये  his work on the Patricia Hearst  अपहरण   .
a   छोटी  submersible AC  sump   पंप  with  a   गार्डन   नली   कनेक्टर
A sump pump is a  पंप   प्रयुक्त  to remove  जल   कि   रै  accumulated in a water collecting sump basin  ,  commonly found in the basement  of  homes  .
The water  may  enter  via  the  घेरा  drains  of  a basement waterproofing system , funneling into  the  basin or  क्युकी   of   बरसात  or natural  मैदान  water  ,   if   the   तहखाने   is   नीचे   the  water table  स्तर  .
sump  pumps  हैं   प्रयुक्त  where basement  बाढ़   happens  regularly  और   to  remedy dampness  जहाँ  the  जल  table  is   ऊपर  the foundation  of   a  home  .
sump  pumps send  जल   दूर   इससे  a  हाउस  to any place where  it  is no  longer  problematic ,  ऐसे  as a municipal  तूफ़ान  drain  or   a   शुष्क   खूब   .
पंपों  may discharge to the  sanitary   सीवर  in  पुरानी   संस्थापना  .
एकबार  considered acceptable , this practice  may  now violate the  plumbing   कोड  or  नगरपालिका  bylaws  ,  because it can overwhelm  the  municipal sewage  उपचार  system .
Municipalities urge  homeowners  to disconnect and  reroute  sump pump discharge away  इससे  sanitary sewers .
Fines  may  be imposed  लिये   noncompliance  .
अनेक  homeowners have inherited their  sump  pump  configurations  and do  नहीं   एहसास   कि  the pump  discharges   to   the   सीवर   .
If  the  discharge is  खिलाया  to a laundry sink  in   the  basement , it  's  likely going to the sewer  .
प्रायः  hardwired into a home 's electrical  प्रणाली   ,   sump  pumps  may  have a battery backup .
The home 's pressurized water  सप्लाई  powers some pumps  ,  eliminating  the  need for electricity at  the  expense  of  using potable water , potentially making them more  महंगी  to operate than  विद्युत  pumps and  बनाना   an   अतिरिक्त  water disposal  प्रॉब्लम  .
Since  a  sump  जलाशय   may  overflow  if   नहीं   constantly  pumped , a backup  प्रणाली  is  महत्वपूर्ण  for cases when the  प्रमुख  power  is  out for prolonged  अवधि   of  time  ,  as during a  कठोर  storm .
वहीँ  are generally two  प्रकार  of sump pumps —  pedestal  and submersible  .
The pedestal  पंप   's  motor  is   आरोहित  above  the  sump , where it is more easily  सर्विस  ,  लकिन  is also more  conspicuous  .
The pump  impeller  is driven by  a   long  , vertical extension  शाफ्ट  and  the  impeller  is   in  a scroll  आवास  in  the   आधार  of the pump  .
The  submersible  pump is entirely  आरोहित  inside the  sump  ,  और  is  विशेषकर  sealed  to   prevent  electrical short circuits .
sump  pump systems are  भी  utilized in industrial  और   वाणिज्यिक  applications  to  control  जल   तालिका  -related problems in  सतह   मृदा  .
An  आर्टेसियन  aquifer  or  periodic high  जल   तालिका  situation can cause the  मैदान  to  become   अस्थिर  due to  जल  saturation  .
as  long as  the   पंप   कृत्यों   ,   the  surface soil will  remain  stable .
These sumps are  typically   टेन   फीट  in depth  or  more ;  lined  with corrugated  मेटल  pipe that  contains  perforations or drain  छेद  throughout  .
वे  may include electronic control systems  साथ  visual  और  audible alarms and are usually covered to prevent debris and  पशु  from  गिरना   in   .
Bleeding Kansas  ,  Bloody  कान्सास   or  the Border  युद्ध  ,  थी  a  श्रेणी   of   हिंसक  political confrontations  involving  anti-slavery  free-staters   और  pro-slavery  ``   किनारा   ruffian   ``  elements ,  कि  took place  in   the   कान्सास  Territory and the  neighboring  towns of  मिसौरी  between  1854  and  1861   .
at   the   दिल   of   the   विरोध  was the question of whether Kansas would enter the Union as a free  राज्य   or  slave state  .
As such ,  bleeding   कान्सास   थी  a proxy  युद्ध   between  Northerners  और  Southerners over  the   समस्या  of slavery  in   the  United States .
the  term ``  bleeding   कान्सास   ''  was coined by  होरेस   greeley  of the  नई  York  ट्रिब्यून   ;   the  events it encompasses  सीधे   presaged  the  अमरीकी  Civil  युद्ध  .
Congress  था  long struggled  to   संतुलन   the   रूचि  of pro-slavery forces and anti-slavery  शक्तियां   .
the  events  बाद  known  as   bleeding  Kansas  यहूद  set into  गति  by the  kansas–nebraska   अधिनियम  of  1854  , which  nullified  the Missouri  सुलह  and  बजाय  implemented  the   अवधारणा   of  popular sovereignty  .
an  ostensibly  लोकतांत्रिक  idea , popular sovereignty stated  कि  the  निवासियों   of  each territory or  राज्य   चाहिए  decide whether  it  would  be   a  free or  स्लेव   राज्य   ;  however  ,  this resulted  in   आव्रजन  en masse  to   कान्सास  by activists from both  पहलू  .
At  एक   पाइंट  , Kansas had  दो   पृथक   सरकारें  ,  प्रत्येक  with its  अपना   संविधान   ,   हालांकि  only one  थी   federally  recognized .
On January 29 , 1861 ,  कान्सास  was admitted to the Union as  a  free  राज्य   ,   कम  than  तीन   महीने   पहले  the  बैटल   of  Fort Sumter which began the Civil  युद्ध   .
बेंजीन  is  an  organic chemical compound  साथ  the molecular formula  c6  H|Hydrogen|H6  .
इसके  molecule is composed  of  6 carbon atoms joined  in   a   रिंग   ,   साथ   1   हाइड्रोजन   अणु  attached  to  each  कार्बन  atom .
क्युकी   इसके   अणुओं   contain   तभी  carbon and hydrogen atoms , benzene is classed as  a   हाइड्रोकार्बन  .
बेंजीन   is  a  प्राकृतिक  constituent of crude oil  ,  and  is   एक  of the  सबसे  basic petrochemicals  .
बेंजीन   is   an  aromatic hydrocarbon  और   the  second  [  n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ]  -annulene  )  ,  a cyclic  हाइड्रोकार्बन  with a  निरन्तर  pi  बंध  .
It  is  sometimes abbreviated  ph  –H .  बेंजीन   is   a  colorless and highly flammable liquid with a  मीठी   महकते  .
It is  मुख्यतः  used as  a   precursor   to  heavy chemicals ,  ऐसे  as  ethylbenzene   और   cumene  ,  जिससे   हैं   उत्पादित   on  a  अरब  kilogram scale  .
क्युकी   it   रै  a high octane  क्रमांक   ,  it is  an   महत्वपूर्ण   घटक   of  gasoline , composing a few percent of its mass .
सबसे   non-industrial  applications  have  been limited  by  benzene  's  carcinogenicity  .
Giovanni Virginio  स्क्यापारेल्ली   (  ;  14  March  1835  –  4  July 1910  )   थी  an Italian  astronomer  and science historian .
वी  homebrew refers to the  reuse  of Nintendo 's Wii game  कंसोल  to  चलाएं  software  कि  has not  महरूम  authorized  by  Nintendo .
it   achieves  this by defeating  the  Wii  's  copy protection and code signing measures .
in   अधिक  general terms  ,   वी   homebrew  refers to the use of  the  Wii  's  hardware , accessories  और  software  लिये   उद्देश्य  outside those  intended   by  the manufacturer  .
Original efforts  केन्द्रित  on  using   the   वी  Remote  as   a   इंगित   यंत्र  on other operating systems  ,   or   कार्यशील   web-based   खेल   in  the  built-in   वेब   ब्राउजर   .
subsequent  developments in games exploits ,  ऐसे  as the `` Twilight hack  ``  , ``  bannerbomb   ''  and  इसके  later incarnation `` LetterBomb  ''  ,  ``  Smash Stack ''  ,  ``  इंडियाना   pwns  '' , `` Yu-Gi-OWNED  ''   ,  ``  bathaxx  ''  ,  and ``  वापसी   of   the  Jodi ''  ,   बना  installing the  ``  Homebrew Channel `` possible .
Hadley ( right  )  discussing the 2006 Israel-Lebanon crisis with  बुश   और   राइस  .
Stephen  जॉन   हैडली   (   born  February 13 , 1947 )  थी   the   21st  U.S. Assistant  to  the  अध्यक्ष   लिये  National Security  अफेयर्स  ( commonly  referred  as National  सुरक्षा   सलाहकार  ) ,  सेवारत   अंतर्गत  President George  W.  Bush  .
Take identical growing  पौधे  and give  उर्वरक   to  half of  उन्हें  .
if   वहीँ   हैं  differences  between   the  fertilized  संयंत्र  group and  the   unfertilized   ``   कंट्रोल   ''  group ,  ये  differences may be due  to  the  उर्वरक   .
A scientific control is an experiment or observation  designed   to   minimize  the effects  of  variables other than  the  single independent variable .
This  increases  the reliability  of  the results , often  through  a comparison between  कंट्रोल   माप  and the other measurements .
Scientific controls are  a  part of the scientific  विधि  .
For  उदाहरण  , during drug testing  ,   वैज्ञानिकों   होगा  try to  कंट्रोल  two groups  to  keep  उन्हें   as   एकसमान  as possible , then allow one group to  कोशिश   the  drug  .
Another  उदाहरण  might be  परीक्षण  plant  उर्वरक  by giving  it   to   तभी  half  the   पौधे   in   a   गार्डन   :   the  plants that  प्राप्त   no   उर्वरक  are  the   कंट्रोल   समूह   ,   क्युकी  they establish the baseline level  of  growth  कि  the  fertilizer-treated   पौधे   होगा  be compared  विरूद्ध   .
Without a  कंट्रोल   समूह  , the experiment can not  determine  whether  the   fertilizer-treated   पौधे  grow more than they would have if untreated  .
Ideally , all variables  in   an   प्रयोग  will be  नियंत्रित   (   accounted  for by  the  control measurements )  और  none will  be   uncontrolled   .
in  such an experiment , if all  the   नियंत्रण  work  as   अपेक्षित  , it  is  possible  to  conclude that  the  experiment is working as  intended  and  कि  the results of  the  experiment are  due  to the effect of  the   परिवर्तनीय  being tested .
That  is  ,  वैज्ञानिक  controls  allow   an  investigator  to  make  a  claim  जैसे  ``  दो  situations  यहूद  identical until factor  x   occurred   .
Since factor X is the only difference between the  दो   परिस्थितियों  , the new outcome  थी  caused  by  factor X  .   ''
<  <  Chemical elements data references
जॉन  Adams  (  October 30  ,  1735 ( O.S .  अक्तूबर  19  ,  1735 )  –   जुलाई   4  , 1826  )   थी   the  second president  of   the  United  राज्य  (  1797–1801  )  ,   having   पहले  served as the  पहला  vice  अध्यक्ष  of  the  United States .
An American  founding  Father , he was a  statesman  , diplomat , and  a   अग्रणी  advocate of American independence  इससे   ग्रेट  Britain .
Well educated  ,   he  was  an  Enlightenment political  theorist   जो   प्रचारित  republicanism and wrote  prolifically   परिचय  his often  seminal  ideas  ,  both in published works  और  in letters  to  his  बीवी  and key adviser Abigail as well as  to   अन्य  Founding Fathers  .
एडम्स   आए  to  prominence   in   the  early  चरण   of   the   अमरीकी  Revolution  .
A lawyer  और  public figure  in  Boston , as a delegate from Massachusetts to  the  Continental Congress ,  he  played a leading role in persuading Congress  to   घोषित  independence  .
He  assisted   थामस  Jefferson in drafting the Declaration  of  Independence in  1776  ,  और   थी  its primary  एडवोकेट  in  the  Congress  .
बाद  , as a diplomat  in  Europe ,  he  helped  negotiate  the  eventual  peace treaty with Great Britain  ,  and was responsible for obtaining vital governmental loans  इससे  Amsterdam bankers .
A political  theorist  and  इतिहासकार   ,  Adams largely  लिखा  the Massachusetts Constitution  in  1780  ,  which  साथ  with  उसके  earlier Thoughts  on   सरकारी   ,   बहकावे   अमरीकी  political thought  .
एक  of his  महानतम  roles was as a judge of character  :  in  1775   ,  he  मनोनीत   जार्ज  Washington  to   be   commander-in-chief  , and  25   सालो  later nominated  जॉन   मार्शल   to  be  मुख्य  Justice of  the  United  राज्य  .
एडम्स  ' revolutionary credentials secured him two  शर्तें  as George Washington  's   वाइस   अध्यक्ष  and his own  चुनाव  in 1796 as the second president .
During  उसके  one  पद  , he encountered  ferocious   हमले   by  the  jeffersonian   republicans   ,  as  खूब  as the dominant faction in  उसके  own  federalist  Party led  by  his bitter enemy  सिकंदर   हैमिल्टन   .
एडम्स  signed the controversial  एलियन   और  Sedition  अधिनियमों   ,  and built  up  the army and navy especially in  the  face of  an  undeclared  नवल  war ( called the ``  quasi-war  ``  )   साथ   फ़्रांस  ,  1798–1800   .
The major  accomplishment  of his presidency was his  शांतिपूर्ण   रेज़ोल्यूशन  of the conflict in the face  of   हैमिल्टन   's  opposition .
In 1800  ,  Adams was defeated  लिये   re-election  by  थामस  Jefferson  और  retired to Massachusetts .
He  बाद   resumed  his friendship  साथ  Jefferson  .
He and his wife ,  अबीगैल   एडम्स   ,  founded  an  accomplished family line  of  politicians , diplomats , and  इतिहासकारों   अभी  referred  to   as  the Adams political family .
Adams  थी  the father of John  क्विंसी  Adams , the  छठे  President of  the   संयुक्त  States .
His  उपलब्धियाँ   have   प्राप्त  greater  मान्यता  in modern times ,  हालांकि   उसके  contributions  यहूद  not initially  as  celebrated  as   those   of  other Founders  .
Adams was  the   पहला  U.S.  अध्यक्ष   to  reside  in  the building  कि   आखिरकार  became known  as   the   श्वेत  House .
A  वाट  steam engine .
the  steam engine , fuelled primarily  by   कोयले   ,   propelled  the Industrial Revolution in  ग्रेट  Britain  और  the  संसार  .
the  Industrial  क्रान्ति   थी  the transition  to  new manufacturing processes that occurred in the period from about 1760  to  some  समय   between   1820  and 1840 .
इस  transition included  going  from  हाथ   उत्पादन   विधि  to machines ,  नई   रासायनिक   निर्माण   और  iron production processes  ,   improved   दक्षता  of water  शक्ति  , the increasing use  of  steam  शक्ति   और  development of  यंत्र  tools .
The  परिवर्तन   भी   शामिल  the change from  लकडी   और  other bio-fuels  to  coal  .
the  Industrial  क्रान्ति   began   in   ब्रिटेन  and within a few decades  स्प्रेड  to Western Europe and  the   संयुक्त  States .
The Industrial Revolution marks  a  major turning  पाइंट   in  history  ;  almost  प्रत्येक  aspect  of   रोज़  life was  बहकावे  in  कुछ  way .
सबसे  notably ,  औसत  income and  जनसांख्यिकी  began to exhibit  unprecedented  sustained growth  .
In  the  words of Nobel  पुरस्कार  winner Robert  E.  Lucas ,  jr.   ,   ``  For the  पहला   समय  in history  ,  the living  मानकों  of the masses of ordinary  लोगों  have  begun   to   undergo  sustained growth ... Nothing  remotely  like  इस   आर्थिक   बर्ताव  is  उल्लेखित   by  the classical economists ,  भी  as  a  theoretical  सम्भावना  . ''
William Bell  स्कॉट   आयरन   और  Coal ,  1855-60
The  काल  of time covered by the Industrial  क्रान्ति  varies  साथ   अलग   इतिहासकारों   .
eric  Hobsbawm  आयोजित  that it 'broke out ' in Britain in the 1780s  और   थी  not fully  लगा  until  the   1830s  or 1840s , while  T.   S.  Ashton  आयोजित   कि  it occurred roughly  between  1760  और  1830 .
Some 20th-century  इतिहासकारों  such as John  clapham  and Nicholas Crafts have argued that  the  process  of  economic and  सोशल   बदलें   took   प्लेस  gradually and the term revolution  is  a misnomer .
This is still a subject of  बहस  among historians  .
जीडीपी  per  capita  was broadly stable before the Industrial  क्रान्ति   और  the emergence of  the   आधुनिक  capitalist economy  .
The  औद्योगिक  Revolution  began   an  era of  per-capita   आर्थिक  growth  in  capitalist economies .
Economic historians  हैं  in agreement  कि   the   onset  of the  औद्योगिक   क्रान्ति  is  the  most  महत्वपूर्ण  event in the history  of   मानवता  since  the   domestication   of  animals  और  plants .
the   पहला  Industrial  क्रान्ति  evolved into the Second Industrial  क्रान्ति   in  the  परिवर्तन  years between  1840   और  1870 ,  जब   technological   और  economic  प्रगति  gained momentum with  the   increasing  adoption of steam-powered  नौकाएँ  , ships and railways , the  विशाल  scale  manufacture  of  यंत्र  tools  और   the   increasing   उपयोग  of  भाप  powered factories  .
जूलियट   annmarie   huddy  ( born September 27  ,  1969  )  ,  is   an  American  टेलीविज़न   न्यूज  reporter ,  फिलहाल   appearing  on Fox  न्यूज  Channel .
This  सूची   बाँधने   u.S.   शहरों   by  land area (  नहीं  including bodies  of   जल  ) .
कुल  areas ( including  जल   )  are  भी   दिए  , but note that  ,  when ranked by  कुल  area , a  क्रमांक  of coastal  शहरों  appear disproportionately ``  larger   ''  .
San  फ्रांसिस्को  is  an   चरम  example  ;  water makes  up  nearly  80  % of its  कुल   क्षेत्रफल  of 232 square  मील   (   601  km2 )  .
Note also that  in   अनेक   मामले   a   नगर   may  be geographically large  primarily  because  इसके  municipal government has merged with the government of  the   surrounding  county .
In  कुछ  cases  the  county  no  longer exists , while in  अन्य   the   व्यवस्था  has formed a  संचित  city–county  (  or  city-  borough in  अलास्का   ,  or city- parish  in  Louisiana  )   .
These are shown in  बिंदास   in  the list  नीचे   (  but not all examples may  be   indicated   )  .
** These  हैं  independent  शहरों  , meaning they are not a part of any  काउंटी   .
the   विशाल   आंत  ( or bowel ,  कोलन   )  is the last part of  the  digestive  प्रणाली  in vertebrate  पशु   .
Its function  is  to  अवशोषित   जल   इससे  the remaining indigestible food matter , and  तब   to  pass  व्यर्थ   बर्बाद   सामग्री  from the body .
This  आलेख  is  primarily  about  the   इंसान   आंत   ,   हालांकि   the  information about  इसके   प्रक्रियाओं  are directly  लागू  to most mammals  .
The large  आंत  consists of the cecum , rectum  और  anal canal .
it  starts  in   the   सही  iliac  प्रदेश   of  the pelvis ,  बस  at or below  the  right  कमर   ,   जहाँ  it is joined to the  नीचे  end of  the   छोटी  intestine  .
इससे   यहाँ   it  continues up the  उदर  , then  आरपार  the  चौडाई  of the  abdominal   गुहा   ,  and then it turns  bas   ,   continuing  to its  endpoint  at the  गुदा   .
The  विशाल  intestine is  परिचय  long , which is  परिचय  one-fifth  of  the whole  लंबाई  of the intestinal canal  .
In Terminologia Anatomica the large intestine  शामिल  the  cecum  , colon , rectum , and anal canal .
However , some sources exclude  the  anal  कनाल   .
The Green Bay Packers are an American football  टोली   आधारित  in  ग्रीन  Bay  ,   विस्कॉन्सिन  .
They are members  of   the  North Division  of  the National Football Conference (  nfc   )  in the  नेशनल  Football  लीग  (  एनएफएल   )  .
ग्रीन   खाड़ी  is  the   third-oldest  franchise in the NFL , having  महरूम  organized and  playing  in 1919 .
the  Packers are  the  only non-profit , community-owned major league professional sports  टोली  in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
the  Packers  हैं  the last vestige of `` small town teams '' that  यहूद  once common  in  the NFL during  the   1920s   और  1930s .
संस्थापित   in   1919  by Earl `` Curly ''  lambeau  ( hence the name  lambeau  Field  on   जिससे   the  team  plays  ) and George Whitney Calhoun ,  the  Green Bay  पैकर्स  can trace  उनके  lineage  to  other semi-professional  टीमों  in Green Bay  डेटिंग  back to 1896  .
in   1919   और  1920 the  पैकर्स  competed  as  a  semi-professional  football  टोली  against  क्लब  from around  विस्कॉन्सिन   और  the  मिडवेस्ट   .
वे   joined  the American  पेशेवर   फ़ुटबॉल  Association ( APFA ) in  1921   ,  the forerunner to  कया   is   ज्ञात  today  as   the   नेशनल  Football  लीग  ( NFL  )   .
हालांकि  Green Bay  is   the  last NFL  ``   छोटी   कस्बा  '' team  ,   इसके   लोकल   प्रशंसक  base  और  media extends into nearby Milwaukee ;  the  team  भी   निभाई   चयनित   घर  games there between  1933  and 1994 .
the  Green Bay Packers have won 13  लीग  championships  (  more than  कोई  other team in the NFL ) ,  सहित  nine  एनएफएल   championships  prior  to  the Super Bowl era and four Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl  i   )   ,  1968 ( Super Bowl II ) , 1997  (  Super  कटोरी  XXXI )  और   2011  (  सुपर   कटोरी   xlv  ) .
The  पैकर्स   have  long-standing  ,   कड़वा   rivalries  with  उनके  NFC  उत्तर   (   formerly   the  NFC Central ) opponents  ,  the  शिकागो  Bears  ,  Minnesota Vikings  और   the  Detroit Lions  .
the  Bears-Packers  फंसने  is one of the oldest rivalries in NFL  इतिहास  , dating  वापस  to 1921  .
The  सैन   फर्नांडो   घाटी   (  locally  ज्ञात  as  ``  The Valley  ''  ) is an  urbanized  valley  स्तिथ   in   the   लॉस   एंजिल्स  metropolitan area  of   दक्षिणी  California ,  संयुक्त  States , defined  by  the mountains  of  the Transverse Ranges circling it  .
घर  to 1.76  लाख   लोगों  , it  झूठ   उत्तर   of   the  larger  और   अधिक   populous  Los Angeles  जलाशय   .
Nearly two thirds of the Valley  's   जमीन  area  is  part of the City of Los  एंजिल्स  .
The other  incorporated  cities  in   the   घाटी  are Glendale , Burbank ,  सैन  Fernando  ,  Hidden Hills and Calabasas .
San  फर्नांडो  Valley ,  लॉस  Angeles
The exterior  of   the  current World of Coca-Cola  at  Pemberton  प्लेस   .
the  World of Coca-Cola  ,  is  a  permanent exhibition featuring the  इतिहास  of The Coca-Cola  कम्पनी  .
Its  well-known   विज्ञापन   as  well  as   a  host of  entertainment  areas and  आकर्षण  ,  और  is located  in  Atlanta , Georgia  (  where the  कम्पनी  's  मुख्यालय  are  स्तिथ   )  at Pemberton Place ( named in honor  of   जॉन   pemberton   ,  the inventor of  coca-cola   )  .
as  part  of   जॉर्जिया   's  museums  .
the  complex  स्तिथ   आरपार  Baker Street  इससे  Centennial  ओलम्पिक  Park that is home to the Georgia Aquarium and  भविष्य   बीच  for Civil &  इंसान   अधिकारों   .
It opened to the public on  may   24  , 2007 , relocating  इससे   और  replacing  the   असली   प्रदर्शनी   .
pretties  is a  2005   विज्ञान  fiction  अनोखा   और  the  दूसरी  book of the Uglies  त्रयी  written  by  Scott Westerfeld .
It is  नियत   in  a future  dystopian   संसार  in which  everyone   is  turned  ``  Pretty '' by  चरम  cosmetic surgery  upon  reaching  आयु  16  .
it   tells  the  स्टोरी  of  किशोरावस्था   टैली  Youngblood  जो   विद्रोहियों  against  समाज   's  enforced conformity .
Susan Leigh  vaughan  Smith ( born September 26 , 1971 ) is an  अमरीकी   स्त्री  sentenced to  जीवन  in  थाना  for murdering her  children  .
Born in  संघ   ,   दक्षिण   कैरोलिना  ,  और  a former student  of   the  University  of   दक्षिण  Carolina Union  ,  she was convicted on July 22  ,  1995  लिये   murdering   उसके  two  बेटे  , 3-year-old  माइकल  Daniel  स्मिथ  ,  born  October 10  ,   1991   ,  and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith , born August 5 , 1993 .
The case  gained  worldwide attention shortly  बाद  it  विकसित  , due to  उसके  claiming  कि   a   ब्लैक  man  चुराया  her  car  and  kidnapped   उसके   बेटे   .
She  बाद   claimed  that  वो  suffered  इससे  mental health issues that impaired her judgment .
according   to   the   दक्षिण  Carolina Department of Corrections  ,   स्मिथ   होगा  be eligible  लिये   पैरोल   on  November 4 , 2024 , after serving  a  minimum of  तीस  years  .
वो   is   incarcerated  at South Carolina 's  leath   correctional   संस्था  ,  निकट   greenwood   .
Mount  mckinley   (   भी   ज्ञात  as Denali taken from the  इनुइट  Koyukon Athabaskan language meaning `` The Great One  ''   )  is  the  highest  पहाड़  peak in  the  United States and in North  अमेरिका   साथ   a  summit elevation  of  above sea level  .
at   कुछ  , the base  to  peak rise is considered the  largest  of any mountain situated  entirely  above sea level .
measured  by  स्थलाकृतिक  prominence ,  it  is the third most  prominent   शिखर  after  माउंट  Everest and Aconcagua  .
स्तिथ   in   the   अलास्का  Range in  the  interior  of  US state  of   अलास्का   ,   it  is  the   centerpiece  of Denali  नेशनल   पार्क  and Preserve .
the  first European  to  document sighting the mountain  थी   जार्ज   वैंकूवर   in  1794 .
In 1903  ,  James  wickersham   अंकित  the first  attempt  at climbing McKinley  जिससे   थी   unsuccessful  .
In  1906  ,  फ्रेडरिक  Cook claimed  the   पहला  ascent which was later  सिद्ध   to  be  गलत  .
The  पहला   verifiable  ascent to  mckinley  's  समिट   थी  achieved on June  7  , 1913 by  चढना  Hudson Stuck , Harry Karstens  ,  Walter Harper , and  रॉबर्ट  Tatum  .
In 1951 ,  ब्रैडफोर्ड   washburn  pioneered the West Buttress  रूट  considered  to  be the safest and easiest route and  इसलिए   the  most popular currently in  उपयोग   .
the   होंडा   s600   is  an automobile manufactured by Honda  .
it  was  शुभारम्भ  in March  1964   .
Available as a  roadster   –  bearing strong  प्रतिरूप   to  the Honda S500 – and  as   a  fastback coupé –  introduced   in  March 1965 –  the  S600  थी  the  पहला  Honda available in two trim levels  .
During its  उत्पादन   चलाएं   up  to  1966  , the model styling  होता  remain  pretty   much   the  same , with the most  notable  changes coming to  the  front  grille  ,  बम्पर   ,  and headlights .
संचालित  by a  dohc   ,  water-cooled , four-cylinder inline engine with  चार  carburetors ,  the  engine capacity was  increased   to   606   cc  from  the   s500   's  531 cc .
the   इंजन   उत्पादित  at 8,500 rpm and had a top speed  of   .
With the convertible weighing  in  at  mere  , the extra sheet metal of  the   कूप   तभी  added to  the  overall  वज़न   .
Suspension  थी  independent with  sealed   रोलर  chain  ड्राइव  to each rear wheel .
The S600 was  the  first mass  marketed   होंडा   car   .
First offered  तभी  in right-hand drive  ,  it soon  became   उपलब्धियाँ  in  left-hand   ड्राइव   to  appeal  to  export  बाज़ार  .
There  यहूद   a   few   pre-production   s500s  manufactured  in  left  हाथ  drive , two or  तीन   भी  being shown  in  some  जल्दी  sales  विवरणिका   .
Both  the   s600  roadster  और   coupé  were available  in  standard trim and  a   खास   ,  upgraded package  पुकारा  the  sm600   जिससे   शामिल   ,   among  other items , special  पेंट  colors , exclusive badging  ,   a  standard  रेडियो  and speaker  ,   a  special antenna  in   the  passenger side sun  छज्जा  , standard reversing lights  ,  a  मानक  cigarette lighter ,  a  standard  हीटर  ,  बेहतर  cushioned seats  ,   और  a  detachable  seat track for  जल्दी  removal  of  the passenger  सीट   .
Honda built  3,912   roadsters  in 1964  ,   साथ  production climbing to 7,261  convertibles  and 1,519 coupes  in  1965 .
Production  dropped  off  in  1966  (  as they were  shifting   to  the S800  )   साथ   तभी   111   roadsters  and  281  coupes , giving tallies of  11,284  convertibles and 1,800  coupes   लिये  the  3   साल  span .
everybody  Hates  क्रिस   is  an  अमरीकी  television  काल   sitcom  that  depicts   the  teenage  अनुभवों   of   हास्य   क्रिस  Rock ( who is also  the  narrator  )   जबकि  growing up in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood  of   ब्रुकलीन  , New  यॉर्क   .
The show is set between  1983   और  1987 ; however ,  चट्टान   खुद   थी   a   किशोरावस्था   between  1978  और   1983  .
चट्टान  grew up with  a  boy  नामित  Kenny Montero , whom he  रै   प्रायः  referred  to  as the inspiration for a  लॉट   of   the  episodes .
In many interviews  ,   चट्टान   रै  described  केनी  as the  कारण  he  मिला   into  comedy in the  पहला  place .
the   दिखाएँ  's title parodies the CBS sitcom Everybody Loves  रेमंड   .
चट्टान  stated :  ``  Everybody  loves   रेमंड  but  everybody  Hates  क्रिस   !  ``  .
The show  's  lead actors are Tyler James Williams  ,   टेरी   क्रू   ,  Tichina  अर्नाल्ड   ,   tequan  Richmond ,  imani  Hakim  ,  and  विंसेंट  Martella .
In Fall 2008  ,  the The  cw  moved Everybody Hates  क्रिस   और   the   खेल   to  the Friday night death slot .
the  fourth season of the  श्रेणी  premiered Friday  ,   अक्तूबर  3  ,  2008 ,  at   8:00pm  Eastern/7:00PM  सेंट्रल  .
On May  21  , 2009 ,  the  CW announced that it  था   रद्द  Everybody Hates Chris .
Prior to  इस   ,   कार्यपालिका  producer  क्रिस  Rock announced  कि  the  समाप्त  of season 4  matched   up  with  उसके  own past—dropping out of  ऊँची  school  to  become a comedian—and that  it   थी  time  to   समाप्त  the  दिखाएँ  .
Pleural effusion is excess  द्रव  that  accumulates   between  the  दो   pleural   परतों  ,  the   fluid-filled  space that  surrounds  the lungs  .
Excessive amounts of such  द्रव  can impair breathing  by  limiting  the  expansion of the lungs  दौरान  ventilation .
Beowulf ( ;  in   बूढ़ा  English or  )  is  the   conventional  title  of  an Old English  वीर  epic  कविता  consisting of  3182   alliterative   long  lines  ,  set  in  Scandinavia  ,  commonly cited  as  one of the most important works of Anglo-Saxon  साहित्य  .
it  survives  in   a  single manuscript  ज्ञात  as the Nowell  codex  .
इसके   संयोजन  by  an  anonymous  anglo-saxon   कवि  is dated  between  the 8th  और  the  जल्दी  11th century  .
in  1731 , the manuscript was badly damaged by a fire  कि  swept  through  a  भवन  housing a collection of Medieval  पांडुलिपियों   समवेत   by   सर  Robert  ब्रूस   कपास  .
the  poem  गिरी   into  obscurity for  दशकों  ,  और   इसके   अस्तित्व  did  नहीं  become widely known again until it  थी  printed  in  1815 in  an  edition  prepared   by   the  Icelandic-Danish scholar Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin .
In the poem  ,  Beowulf , a hero  of   the  Geats in  scandinavia   ,  comes to the help of  hroðgar   ,  the king  of  the Danes , whose  मीड  hall  (  in Heorot  )  has been  अंतर्गत  attack  by  a  दानव  known as Grendel .
After  बियोवुल्फ़   जानबूझ  him ,  grendel  's  माँ   हमले   the   हॉल   और  is  तब  also defeated  .
Victorious ,  बियोवुल्फ़  goes home to Geatland in  स्वीडन  and later  becomes  king of the Geats  .
बाद  a period of fifty years has  passed  ,  बियोवुल्फ़  defeats a  ड्रैगन  ,  लकिन  is  fatally  wounded  in  the  बैटल   .
After his death ,  उसके  attendants bury him  in   a  tumulus , a burial mound  ,  in  geatland  .
shem   हैम  and Japheth by James Tissot 1904 .
shem   (   ;  Sēm  ;   अरबी   :  Sām ;  ge'ez  :  ሴም  , Sēm ;  ``  renown ; prosperity  ;   नाम  '' ) was  एक  of the sons of Noah in  the   यहूदी   बाइबल  as well as in Islamic  साहित्य  .
He is most popularly regarded  as  the eldest son , though  कुछ   परंपराओं  regard him  as   the   दूसरी  son  .
उत्पत्ति   10:21   refers   to  relative ages  of   shem  and  उसके   bhai   japheth  ,  लकिन  with sufficient  ambiguity  to  have   yielded   अलग   अनुवाद   .
The  श्लोक   is  translated in the KJV  as   ``   unto   shem   भी  ,  the  father of  सब   the  children  of   eber  ,  the  brother of Japheth the elder ,  भी   to  him were children born  .  `` .
However ,  the  New  अमरीकी  Standard Bible gives  ,   ``  Also to  shem  , the father of all the children of Eber ,  और  the older brother  of  Japheth ,  children  were  born   .   ''
Genesis 11:10 records that Shem was still 100 years  बूढ़ा   at  the birth  of   arphaxad  ,  (  but nearly 101 -  देखिए   कालक्रम  note , )  दो   सालो  after the flood  ,  making him barely 99  at  the  समय  the flood  began  ; and that  he  lived for  another   500   सालो  after this ,  बनाना   उसके   आयु  at  मौत   600  years .
The  children   of  Shem  यहूद  Elam , Asshur , Arphaxad , Lud  ,  and Aram  ,  in addition  to   बेटियां  .
Abraham , the  patriarch  of the  hebrews  and Arabs  ,   थी  one  of  the descendants of  arphaxad   .
Islamic literature describes  shem  as one of the  believing   बेटे  of Noah  .
कुछ  sources  भी  identify  shem  as  a  prophet in  उसके  own right and that  he  was  the  next prophet after his father  .
In  एक   मुस्लिम   लेजेंड  , Shem was  एक   of  the people that God made  यीशु  resurrect  as  a  चिह्न  to  the  Children of Israel  .
The  1st   सदी  historian Flavius Josephus , among  अनेक  others  ,  recounted the tradition that  ये  five  बेटे  were  the  progenitors of  the  nations  of  Elam ,  assyria  , Chaldea ,  लीडिया  , and Syria  ,  respectively .
सामीती   is   स्टिल   a  commonly used  पद   लिये  the  सामीती   भाषाएं  , as a subset  of  the  afro-asiatic   भाषाएं  , denoting the common linguistic heritage of  अरबी  , Aramaic ,  अक्कादी  , Ethiopic  ,   यहूदी  and Phoenician languages .
According to some Jewish  परंपराओं  ( e.g.  ,   B.   talmud   nedarim   32b  ; Genesis Rabbah 46:7 ;  उत्पत्ति   rabbah  56:10 ; Leviticus Rabbah 25:6 ;  संख्याएँ  Rabbah 4:8 . ) , Shem  is   believed   to  have been Melchizedek ,  किंग  of Salem whom Abraham  is   अंकित  to have met after the  बैटल  of the  चार  kings .
in  a few  of  the  अनेक  extra-biblical  स्त्रोत  that describe him , Shem  is  also credited with  हत्या  Nimrod , son of Cush  .
Shem  is  mentioned  in   उत्पत्ति  5:32 ,  6:10   ;   7:13  ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10  ;   11:10   ;   भी   in   1  Chronicles  1:4   .
Geographic identifications of Flavius Josephus  ,   c.  100 AD ;  japheth  's  बेटे  shown  in   रेड  ,  हैम  's sons in blue  ,  Shem  's   बेटे   in  green .
go  Daddy or  go  Daddy  समूह  Inc. is a privately held  कम्पनी   कि   is  primarily an  अंतरजाल  domain registrar  और   वेब   होस्टिंग  company .
Go  पापा  Group  inc.   दायर  for an IPO in 2006 , but later canceled  it  ,  due  to  ``   मार्केट  uncertainties '' .
in  addition to domain registration  और   होस्टिंग  Go Daddy also sells e-business  सम्बन्धित  software and  सेवाएं  .
on  June  24   ,   2011   ,   the   वॉल  Street Journal reported  कि   private-equity  firms KKR and  चांदी  Lake  साझेदार  , along with  a   तीसरा  investor , were nearing a  सौदे  to buy  the  company  लिये  between $ 2–2.5 billion .
On  जुलाई  1 , 2011 Go  पापा  confirmed that KKR , Silver Lake Partners and Technology Crossover  ventures   था  closed the deal .
हालांकि  the  खरीदें   दाम  was  नहीं   officially  announced it was reported to  be  $ 2.25 billion  ,   लिये   65   %   of  the company  .
,  bob  Parsons  था  ceded  the   सीईओ  role of Go Daddy to  वारेन  Adelman , who  था  been  साथ  the company for  परिचय   10   सालो  .
The Andorran  कोट  of  बाहें   at  the Andorran  पार्लियामेंट  .
अंडोरा  (  ;  ,  )   ,   officially   the  Principality  of   अंडोरा  (  )  , also called  the  Principality  of  the Valleys of Andorra ,  (  ) , is a landlocked microstate  in   southwestern  Europe ,  स्तिथ   in  the eastern Pyrenees  kyu  and bordered by  स्पेन   और  France  .
It is  the   छठे  smallest  स्वदेश  in Europe  ,   having   an  area of and  an   अनुमानित  population of 85,000 in  2012  .
Its capital ,  अंडोरा   la  Vella , is the  उच्चतम  capital city in  यूरोपीय   ,  at an elevation of  ऊपर   समुद्र   स्तर   .
The official language is Catalan ,  हालांकि   स्पेनी   ,   पुर्तगाली   ,   और   फ्रेंच   हैं   भी  commonly spoken .
Created under a charter in 988 , the  उपस्थित  Principality was formed in  1278   .
it  is known as  a  principality as it is a  साम्राज्य   headed  by two co-princes –  the  Bishop of Urgell and the President of  फ़्रांस  .
Andorra is  a   prosperous   देश   मुख्यतः  because  of   इसके  tourism industry  ,  which services an estimated  10.2  million visitors  annually   ,  and  भी   क्युकी   of  its status as  a  tax haven  .
it  is not  a  member of the  यूरोपीय   संघ   ,  but  the  euro is the de facto currency  .
The people  of  Andorra have the 4th highest human life  प्रत्याशा   in  the  संसार   —  82  सालो  at  जनम  .
The George Washington  विश्वविद्यालयों   (  GW ,  gwu   ,   or  George Washington )  is  a comprehensive  निजी   ,  coeducational research  विश्वविद्यालयों   स्तिथ  in  वॉशिंगटन  , D.C. .
it   पुरस्कार  certificates , Bachelor  डिग्री  ,  मास्टर्स  degrees , and PhDs across  अनेक  dozen disciplines  .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों  was  चार्टर्ड  by an  अधिनियम  of  कॉंग्रेस   on  February 9  ,  1821  as  The  columbian   कॉलेज  in the District  of  Columbia .
Kimberly Noel  ``   किम   ''   कार्दशियन  (  born   अक्तूबर  21  ,  1980  )  is  an  American socialite  ,   टेलीविज़न  personality and  occasional  actress  .
In  2007   ,   वो  gained notoriety as the subject of a sex tape that subsequently resulted in a court awarding her $ 5 million ; later  in  that same year , she and her family  रोज़  to  prominence  with their  e   !
वास्तविकता  television series  keeping  Up with  the  Kardashians  ,  and its subsequent  spin-offs   ,  including  कोर्टनी  and Kim  लो   नई  York  और   कोर्टनी   और   किम  Take  मियामी   .
In  2010  ,  कार्दशियन  was  the  highest-earning reality  स्टार   ,  with  अनुमानित   आय  of $  6  million  .
With  बहनों  Kourtney and  khloé   ,  Kardashian  co-owns  the fashion  बुटीक  chain  d-a-s-h  .
वो  has been  शामिल  in the production  of  several lines of clothing  और  fragrances .
In August  2011   ,  Kardashian married  बास्केट  player  क्रिस   humphries   in  a widely publicized  रस्म   .
That October  ,  Kardashian filed for divorce following 72 days of  विवाह  .
The  मूव   garnered  significant backlash  इससे  the media  ,  who  labeled   it  a  ``   publicity   स्टंट   ''  .
After  536  days , Kardashian and Humphries reached an  अघोषित   उपनिवेश  at the Los  एंजिल्स  Superior  अदालत  ,  finalizing  the  तलाक  in  अप्रैल   2013  .
aerial  view of  oahu  with freeways and  राजमार्गों   ,   3d  computer-generated image
Fly-around  दौरे   of  the island
Oahu  (  ) or  oahu  ,  ज्ञात   as  `` The Gathering Place '' , is the third  largest  of the Hawaiian Islands and  the  most  populous   of   the   आइलैंड्स  in  the   u.S.   राज्य  of  हवाई   .
The  राज्य  capital , Honolulu , is on Oahu  's   southeast   coast   .
Including  छोटी  close-in offshore islands  ऐसे   as  Ford  द्वीप   और  the  आइलैंड्स   in   kaneohe  Bay and  बंद  the  पूर्वी   (   windward  )  coast   ,  it has a  कुल  land  क्षेत्रफल  of  ,  making  it  the  20th  largest island  in  the  संयुक्त  States .
in   the   महानतम  dimension , this volcanic island  is  long and  आरपार  .
the   लंबाई  of  the   shoreline  is .
The island is  the  result of two  पृथक  shield volcanoes :  waianae   और   koolau  , with  a  broad ``  घाटी   ''  or saddle  (  the central  oahu  Plain  )  between  उन्हें  .
The  उच्चतम  point is Mt  .   ka'ala  in the  waianae  Range , rising to above sea level .
The base  करेंसी   of   the  United States  is   the  U.S. dollar ,  और  is printed  on  bills in  denominations  of $ 1 , $ 2 , $ 5 , $  10  ,  $  20 , $ 50 , and $ 100 .
at   एक   समय  , however  ,   u.S.  currency  शामिल  five larger  denominations  .
टीप  in the denominations of  $   500  ,  $  1,000  ,   $  5,000 , and $ 10,000 were printed  लिये  general  उपयोग  , and  a   $   100,000  note was  मुद्रित   लिये  certain internal  ट्रांजेक्शन   .
British Honduras was  a  British colony  in  Central America  .
In 1981 , the colony gained full independence  ,   और  is now the independent nation  of  Belize  .
पहला   colonised  by  spaniards   in  the 17th  सदी  , the territory on the  ईस्ट  coast  of  Central America , south of Mexico ,  became  a British crown colony  in   1862   .
In  1964   ,  it  became  a  self-governing  colony .
Belize  became  fully  स्वतंत्र   इससे  the United  किंगडम   in  1981 .
Belize was the  पिछला  continental possession  of  the United Kingdom  in  the Americas  .
Spelt , also  ज्ञात   as  dinkel wheat , or hulled wheat  ,  is an  प्राचीन   प्रजाति  of wheat from  the   पांचवां   मिलेनियम  BC  .
spelt   थी   an   महत्वपूर्ण   स्टेपल  in parts of  यूरोपीय  from the  कांस्य   आयु  to medieval  टाइम्स  ;  it  now  survives   as   a   relict   क्रॉप   in  Central  यूरोपीय  and northern  स्पेन  and has found  a  new market as a health food .
spelt  is  sometimes  considered a  subspecies  of the closely  सम्बन्धित  species common wheat (  T.  aestivum ) , in which case its botanical  नाम  is considered  to   be  Triticum aestivum  subsp   .   spelta  .
it   is  a  hexaploid   गेहूं  , which  अर्थात्  it has  छह  sets of chromosomes .
Sherlock Holmes (  or  ) is  a   fictional   जासूस   निर्मित  by author  और   चिकित्सक  Sir  आर्थर   कोनन   डोयल  .
A London-based ``  परामर्श  detective  ''   जिनकी  abilities border on the  fantastic  , Holmes is famous for his astute logical  तर्क  , his  क्षमता  to  अपनाना   लगभग  any  भेस   ,  and his use of forensic science skills to solve difficult cases .
Holmes , who first  appeared  in  प्रकाशन  in 1887 ,  थी   प्रदर्शित  in four novels and  56  short stories .
The first  अनोखा  , A Study in Scarlet  ,   appeared  in Beeton 's Christmas Annual  in   1887  and  the  second ,  the   चिह्न  of the Four  ,   in   lippincott  's Monthly  पत्रिका   in  1890 .
the  character grew tremendously in  लोकप्रियता   साथ  the first  श्रेणी   of  short stories in The  strand   पत्रिका  , beginning  साथ   a   कांड  in Bohemia in 1891 ; further  श्रेणी   of   छोटी  stories and two novels  प्रकाशित  in serial  रूप   appeared  between  तब   और   1927  .
The  कहानियां   कवर  a period  इससे  around  1880  up  to   1914  .
सब  but four  कहानियां   हैं  narrated by Holmes 's  dost  and biographer ,  dr.  John  H.  Watson ;  दो   हैं  narrated by Holmes  खुद  (  ``   the   blanched   सिपाही  `` and `` The Lion 's  माने   ``  )  और  two others are written in  the  third  व्यक्ति   (   ``   the   mazarin   स्टोन  ``  और  ``  उसके  Last Bow `` )  .
In two stories ( `` The  musgrave   अनुष्ठान   ``  and  ``   the   ग्लोरिया  Scott ``  )  ,  holmes  tells Watson  the  main story from his  यादें  , while  वाटसन  becomes the narrator of the frame  स्टोरी  .
The first and fourth novels  ,  A Study in  स्कारलेट   और   the  Valley of  भय   ,   प्रत्येक  include a long  अंतराल   of   सर्वज्ञ   narration  recounting events unknown to either Holmes  or  Watson  .
the   संयुक्त   राज्य   हाउस  of Representatives  is  one of the  दो  houses of  the  United  राज्य   कॉंग्रेस  ( a bicameral  विधानमंडल   )   .
it   is  frequently  referred  to as the  हाउस  .
the  other house is the  सीनेट  .
the   संयोजन  and  शक्तियां   of  the House are  स्थापित  in Article  एक  of  the   संयुक्त  States  संविधान  .
The  प्रमुख  power  of  the  हाउस   is  to  pass  federal legislation  कि  affects the entire country  हालांकि  its  बिल्स   जरूर   भी  be passed  by  the Senate  और   further  agreed  to  by  the  U.S.  अध्यक्ष  before becoming  विधि   (   जबतक   दोनो  the House and Senate re-pass the legislation  साथ   a  two-thirds majority in  प्रत्येक  chamber  )  .
the   हाउस  has  अनेक  exclusive powers :  the  power to  initiate  revenue bills , to  impeach   officials   ,  and  to   elect  the  u.S.   अध्यक्ष   in  case there  is   no   बहुमत   in  the Electoral  कॉलेज  .
Each U.S.  राज्य  is  represented  in  the   हाउस   in  proportion to its population but  is  entitled  to   at   तनिक   एक  representative  .
The most populous  राज्य  , California  ,  currently  रै  53  प्रतिनिधि  .
the  total  क्रमांक  of  मतदान   प्रतिनिधि   is  fixed  by  law at 435 .
प्रत्येक  representative serves  लिये  a two-year term .
the   स्पीकर  of the United States  हाउस   of  Representatives , who  presides  over the chamber , is  निर्वाचित  by  the   सदस्यों  of  the   हाउस  ,  और  is therefore  traditionally   the  leader  of  the  हाउस   लोकतांत्रिक   caucus  or the House Republican  सम्मेलन  , whichever  पार्टी  has more voting  सदस्यों  .
the  House meets in  the  south wing of the United States Capitol .
Jell-O  is   a   ब्रांड   नाम  belonging  to  U.S.-based  kraft  Foods  लिये  a number of  जिलेटिन   desserts   ,  including fruit  gels   ,  puddings and no-bake  मलाई  pies .
The brand  's  popularity  रै   led  to it being used as a  जेनेरिक  term for  जिलेटिन   मिठाई  across  the   u.S.  and  कनाडा  .
kennywood  is an amusement park  स्तिथ   in  West  mifflin   ,  Pennsylvania  ,  a suburb of Pittsburgh .
The park  पहला   खोली  in 1898 as a  ``  trolley park '' attraction  at  the  समाप्त  of the Mellon  परिवार   's  Monongahela  गली  Railway .
The park was  खरीदा  in  1906   by  F. W. Henninger and  एंड्रयू   mcswigan   और   यूँ  began the  kennywood   entertainment   कम्पनी  that has remained  a   closely  held family  कारोबार   लिये   over   100   सालो   .
This traditional  मनोरंजन   पार्क  still has  structures  and rides dating back to  इसके   खोलने   और  the early  1900s  .
साथ  with  rye   playland  Park ,  it   is   एक  of  तभी  two  मनोरंजन  parks listed  in  the  नेशनल  Register of  ऐतिहासिक  Places .
kennywood   is  owned by Kennywood  entertainment   कम्पनी  , which until December 2007 was  a  closely held family business owned  by  the Henninger and McSwigan families .
Kennywood Entertainment is  अभी  operated by  california-based  Palace  entertainment  ,  a   subsidiary   of  Parques Reunidos , an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  amusement park company based in Madrid , Spain  .
parque  Reunidos is in turn  a  subsidiary of  candover   निवेश  , an investment fund  आधारित   in   the   uk  .
A Social Security card issued by the Railroad Retirement Board in  1943  to  a   अभी   मृतक   व्यक्ति  .
in   the  United  राज्य   ,   a   सोशल   सुरक्षा  number  (  SSN ) is a nine-digit  क्रमांक  issued to U.S. citizens  ,  permanent  निवासियों  ,  और   अस्थाई  ( working )  निवासियों   अंतर्गत   खण्ड  205 ( c  )  ( 2  )   of  the  सोशल   सुरक्षा   अधिनियम  , codified as .
the  number is issued to  an  individual by the Social Security  प्रशासन  , an independent agency  of   the  United  राज्य   सरकारी  .
Its  प्राथमिक  purpose is  to  track  individuals  for Social Security  उद्देश्य   .
A  सोशल  Security number may  be  obtained by applying  on  Form SS-5 , ``  अनुप्रयोग  for A  सोशल   सुरक्षा  Number  कार्ड   ''  .
minimalism   describes   आंदोलनों  in various  फ़ॉर्म   of  art and design ,  विशेषकर  visual  आर्ट   और  music  ,  where the work is set  आउट   to  expose  the  essence  or   पहचान   of  a  विषय  through eliminating  सब   non-essential   फ़ॉर्म  ,  सुविधाएँ  or  अवधारणाओं   .
Minimalism is  कोई   डिज़ाइन   or  style  in  which the simplest and  fewest   तत्व   हैं  used to create  the  maximum effect  .
as  a  विशिष्ट   गति   in   the   कला  it  is  identified with developments  in  post–World War II  पश्चिमी  Art  ,  most  strongly  with  अमरीकी  visual arts  in   the   1960s  and early 1970s .
prominent   कलाकारों  associated  साथ   इस   गति  include  डोनाल्ड   judd   ,  John McCracken  ,  Agnes  मार्टिन  , Dan  flavin   ,  Robert Morris  ,   ऐनी  Truitt , and  फ़्रैंक  Stella  .
It is  rooted  in  the  reductive aspects of Modernism , and  is   प्रायः  interpreted  as  a reaction against  अमूर्त  expressionism and  a  bridge to Postminimal  आर्ट  practices  .
The  शर्तें  have  विस्तारित  to encompass  a  movement  in  music which  सुविधाएँ   repetition  and iteration , as  in   the   रचनाएं   of  La Monte Young , Terry  रिले   ,   स्टीव   reich  , Philip Glass , and  जॉन  Adams .
Minimalist  रचनाएं   हैं   sometimes   ज्ञात  as systems  म्यूज़िक  .
the  term  ``   अल्पतम   ''  is often applied colloquially  to   designate  anything that is  अतिरिक्त  or  stripped  to its essentials  .
it  has also been used to  describe  the  plays  and novels  of  Samuel  beckett   ,  the films of  रॉबर्ट  Bresson , the stories of Raymond  carver  , and even  the  automobile  डिजाइन  of  कोलिन   chapman   .
the   शब्द  was  पहला  used  in   अंग्रेज़ी  in the early 20th century to describe  the  Mensheviks  .
In  रसायन   और  physics  ,  Dalton 's  विधि   (   भी  called  डाल्टन  's law of partial pressures  )  states  कि  the total pressure exerted by the mixture  of  non-reactive gases  is   बराबर  to the sum  of   the   आंशिक   pressures  of  व्यक्तिगत  gases  .
इस  empirical law was observed by John  डाल्टन   in   1801  and is  सम्बन्धित   to  the  आदर्श  gas laws  .
Mathematically  ,   the   दबाव  of  a  mixture of gases  can   be  defined as the summation
or
जहाँ  represent  the  partial  दबाव  of each component  .
it  is  assumed   कि  the  गैसों   do  not react with each other
where  is   the  mole fraction  of  the i-th component in the  कुल  mixture  of  n components .
The relationship  नीचे   provides  a way to  determine  the volume  आधारित   विशेषज्ञता  of any individual  गैसीय  component
where is the concentration  of  the  i-th   घटक  expressed in ppm  .
Dalton 's law is not exactly followed by real gases .
those  deviations are  considerably  large  at   ऊँची   pressures   .
in   ऐसे   शर्तें   ,  the  आवाज़  occupied  by   the   अणुओं   can  become significant compared  to  the  फ़्री   स्पेस   between  them .
In  particular  ,  the  short  औसत  distances between molecules  उठाता   the  intensity of intermolecular  शक्तियां   between  gas molecules  पर्याप्त   to  substantially  बदलें  the pressure exerted by  उन्हें   .
Neither of  those  effects  हैं   माना  by the ideal gas  मॉडल  .
This is  a  list of  the   largest  United  राज्य  colleges and universities  by  enrollment for  कॉलेजों  and universities in the United  राज्य   .
What this list  शामिलs:
Colleges and universities  भीतर   the   संयुक्त  States
University systems if  the   प्रणाली   is  run  अंतर्गत   a  single  प्रशासन
Enrollment  is  the  योग  of  the   headcount  of undergraduate  और   ग्रैजुएट  students
Enrollment is counted by the  एकीकृत  Post-secondary Education  प्रणाली  within the U.S.  विभाग   of   शिक्षा   .
नामांकन  is the 12-month unduplicated headcount ,  indicating  the  क्रमांक   of  unique  विद्यार्थी  who attended the university  दौरान  the year  .
कया   इस  list  करता   नहीं  include:
कोई  indication  of  how many  of  the  नामांकित  students are  पूरा  or  भाग   समय  ( e.g.  ,  some universities may  have   a   ऊँची  enrollment ,  लकिन  have  सबसे   विद्यार्थी   नामांकित  in only a single  क्लास   )
लिये   अन्य  lists  कि  measure university enrollment ,  देखिए   the   देखिए  Also section below .
``  सही  Round '' is a  सोंग   performed   by   अमरीकी  rapper Flo Rida , released  as  the  सीसे  single from  उसके   दूसरी  studio  एल्बम  ,  r.o.o.t.s  . ( 2009 ) .
The song  सुविधाएँ  guest  vocals  from Kesha .
It was released to radio  on  27  जनवरी   2009  and  थी   डिजिटली  released on 10  फ़रवरी  by  पो   लड़के   entertainment   और  Atlantic Records .
The song  lyrically   बोलती  of  flo  Rida 's  जाल   बॉल   रेफरी  enthusiasm , while  adapting   the  chorus  of   the  1984 Dead  or  Alive  सोंग  ``  तुम   स्पिन  Me  गोलाकार  (  जैसे  a Record ) `` in  इसके   आँकड़ा   .
According to one  of   the  song 's  लेखक  , the  कोरस   refers  to  मौखिक  sex .
Kesha contributed guest vocals to the song  ,   लकिन   in  the United States , during  the   चलाएं  atop the chart  ,  Kesha was  uncredited   .
the  song received mostly  ऋणात्मक   समीक्षाएँ   इससे  critics  ,  who  claimed   it  was kitsch  और  misogynistic .
However , it  थी   a   वाणिज्यिक   कामयाबी  ,  reaching  the  शीर्ष  ten of  the  charts in  उन्नीस  countries worldwide .
In  the  United  राज्य  ,  it   became   flo   rida  's  दूसरी  number-one  सिंगल   और   broke   the  record  लिये  first-week sales when it was released to  डिजिटल  retailers  .
The single  's   accompanying  music video  थी  directed  by  Malcolm  जोन्स  and nominated for an  एमटीवी  Video  म्यूज़िक  Award  .
The  सोंग   रै   महरूम  used  in  several movies , such as  the  Hangover , The Ugly  सच्चाई   और  the  तेलुगु  movie  pilla  Zamindar  .
in  the movie Pitch Perfect , the song  is  performed by  the  a cappella group the Treblemakers .
The  मुख्य   इंसाफ  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  is  the  head of  the  United  राज्य  federal court system  (  the  न्यायिक  branch of the  संघीय  government  of   the  United  राज्य   )   और   the  chief judge of the  परम्   अदालत  of the United  राज्य   .
The Chief Justice is one of nine Supreme Court justices ;  the   अन्य  eight are  the  Associate Justices of the  परम्  Court  of   the   संयुक्त   राज्य   .
इससे  1789 until  1866  ,  the   दफ्तर  was  ज्ञात   as  the Chief  इंसाफ  of the Supreme Court .
The  मुख्य  Justice is  the  highest judicial officer in the country , and acts  as   a   मुख्य  administrative officer for the  संघीय   न्यायालयों   और  as  सिर   of   the   न्यायिक  Conference  of   the  United  राज्य  appoints  the   निदेशक   of  the Administrative  दफ्तर   of  the  संयुक्त  States  न्यायालयों  .
The Chief Justice also serves as  a   प्रवक्ता  for  the  judicial  शाखा   .
the  Chief Justice leads the business  of  the Supreme  अदालत   .
he  presides  over  oral arguments before the court  .
When the  अदालत   renders   an   राय  , the Chief Justice—when  in   the  majority—decides who writes the  अदालत   's   राय  .
The  मुख्य   इंसाफ   भी   रै   significant  agenda-setting power  over  the  अदालत   's  meetings .
In the case  of  an impeachment  of  a  अध्यक्ष  of  the  United States  ,  which  रै   occurred  twice ,  the  Chief  इंसाफ  presides over  the   विचारण  in the  सीनेट   .
In modern  परंपरा  ,  the  Chief Justice has the ceremonial duty of administering the oath  of  office of  the   अध्यक्ष   of  the United States .
The first Chief  इंसाफ  was John Jay  .
the   17th  and  वर्तमान  Chief  इंसाफ  is John  G.  Roberts  ,   jr   .
Caribou  निकट  Prudhoe  खाड़ी  ,  1973
Prudhoe Bay  आयल   फ़ील्ड   is  a  विशाल   आयल  field  on  Alaska  's  North  ढलान  .
it  is  the  largest oil field  in  both the  संयुक्त  States and in North America , covering and originally containing  लगभग  of oil .
The amount of  recoverable  oil in  the  field  is  more than double that  of  the  अगला   largest   फ़ील्ड  in  the  United  राज्य   ,   the   ईस्ट  Texas  आयल   फ़ील्ड  .
The  फ़ील्ड   is  operated by BP ; partners  हैं  ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips Alaska  .
मजदूर  unions are legally  पहचाना  as  प्रतिनिधि   of   मजदूर  in many  उद्योग   in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
Their  कार्यकलाप   आज  centers on collective bargaining  over   मजदूरी  , benefits , and working conditions for their membership  ,  and on representing  उनके  members  in  disputes with management over  उल्लंघनों  of contract provisions  .
larger   संघ  also typically engage in  lobbying   क्रियाएँ   और  electioneering at  the  state and  संघीय  level .
Most unions in America are aligned with one  of  two  larger  umbrella  संगठन  :  the   afl-cio  created in 1955  ,   और  the Change  to  Win Federation which split from the  afl-cio  in 2005  .
दोनो   एडवोकेट  policies  और  legislation on  निमित्त  of workers in the  संयुक्त   राज्य   और   कनाडा   ,   और  take an active role  in  politics  .
the   afl-cio  is  विशेषकर  concerned with global  व्यापार  issues .
In  2010  , the  प्रतिशत  of workers belonging to a union in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  (  or  total labor union ``  घनत्व  ''  )  was 11.4 % ,  compared   to   18.4  % in Germany  ,  27.5 %  in   कनाडा  , and 70 %  in  Finland .
संघ  membership  in  the  निजी  sector  रै  fallen  अंतर्गत  7 % — levels not seen  चूंकि  1932 .
संघ   allege  that  employer-incited   विपक्ष   रै  contributed to this decline  in  membership .
the   सबसे  prominent unions are among public sector employees  ऐसे  as teachers and  पुलिस  .
Members of  संघ   हैं   disproportionately   पुरानी  ,  पुरूष  and  निवासियों   of  the Northeast  ,   the   मिडवेस्ट   ,  and  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Union  मजदूर  average  10-30   %  higher pay than non-union  in  America  बाद  controlling for individual  ,   जॉब   ,  and labor market  विशेषताएँ   .
हालांकि   much  smaller  compared   to  their peak membership  in   the  1950s  ,  American  संघ   remain   a  prominent political  फ़ैक्टर   ,   दोनो  through mobilization  of   उनके   अपना   सदस्यताएँ   और  through  coalitions  with like-minded activist  संगठन  around issues  ऐसे  as  अप्रवासी  rights ,  व्यापार  policy  ,   स्वास्थ्य  care  ,  and living wage  अभियान  .
To fight alleged employer  anti-union  programs  ,   संघ  are  फिलहाल   वकालत   नई  `` card check `` federal  विधान   कि   होता   आवश्यकता  employers to  सौदेबाजी   साथ  a union  if  more  than  50  %  of workers  हस्ताक्षरित   फ़ॉर्म   ,   or  `` cards ,  ''  stating  वे   काश  to be represented by that  संघ  .
the   वर्तमान   कार्यविधि   involves  waiting 45 to  90  days  लिये  a federally  पर्यवेक्षित  secret-ballot employee referendum on  the  subject .
the  economist Joseph Stiglitz has asserted  कि  ,  ``   दमदार   संघ  have  helped  to  reduce  inequality ,  whereas  weaker unions have made it easier  लिये   ceos   ,  sometimes working with market  शक्तियां  that they have helped  आकार   ,  to increase  it  .  ''
The decline  in  unionization since WWII  in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  has  महरूम  associated with a pronounced  वृद्धि  in income  और  wealth inequality .
A Christian Lacroix  फ़ैशन  boutique
A  बुटीक   is  a  छोटी  shopping  आउटलेट  , especially one  कि   specializes   in   elite   और   फैशनेबल   वस्तुएं   ऐसे   as   कपडे   और  jewelry .
the   शब्द  is French  लिये  `` shop ''  ,   via  Latin from Greek ἀποθήκη  (  apothēkē ) , `` storehouse ''  .
The  पद  entered into everyday  अंग्रेज़ी   उपयोग  in the  लेट  1960s when , for a brief period ,  लंदन   थी  the  केन्द्र  of  the   फ़ैशन  trade .
Carnaby Street and the  किंग्स  Road were  the  focus of  much  media  ध्यान  as home to  the   सबसे   फैशनेबल  boutiques of the era .
अभी  the  ईस्ट   of  London has been regenerated and more Boutiques pop up in fashionable areas  ,   ऐसे   as  Tower Bridge Road .
It  can   भी   refer   to  a specialised firm such  as  a  बुटीक  investment bank or boutique law firm  .
the   शब्द  is often  प्रयुक्त  to  describe  a property  in   the   स्वतंत्र   खण्ड  of the hotel  मार्केट  ( such as The Rockwell in London ) in order to distinguish  themselves  from  larger  chains ( such  as  Hilton  होटल   )  .
In such cases  the   establishments   उद्देश्य  to  convey   the  idea  कि  the operation is elite and  अत्यधिक   specialised  .
in  the strictest sense of the  शब्द  ,  boutiques  would be one-of-a-kind but  अधिक  generally  बोलना  ,  कुछ   जंजीरों   can   be  referred  to   as   boutiques  if they  specialize   in  particular styles .
recently  ,  the  term `` boutique  ''   रै  started  होने  applied to  normally-mass-market  items  कि  are  either  niche or  उत्पादित   in  intentionally small numbers  at   बहुत  high prices .
This  may  be referred  to  as boutique  निर्माण  .
For  उदाहरण   ,  before the release of  the  Wii  ,  a Time  पत्रिका  article  सुझाया  that Nintendo could  become   a  `` boutique  video-game  company '' , producing games for niche  ऑडियंस   ,  rather  than   trying  to  compete  directly  साथ  Microsoft  और   सोनी   .
In the traditional luxury- watch industry Scalfaro International  is   माना   as   the   precursor  in manufacturing  और  sale  of  bespoke watches .
the  Swiss  कम्पनी  uses  a   अत्यधिक  flexible  बुटीक  manufacturing site ,  जिससे   allows   producing   छोटी   श्रेणी  or even unique  timepieces  .
Although  कुछ   boutiques   specialise  in hand-made  वस्तुएं   और  other truly  one-of-a-kind  items ,  अन्य   बस   उपज  t-shirts  ,   स्टिकर  , and  अन्य  fashion accessories in  artificially   छोटी   रनों  and sell them at  unusually  high  कीमतें  .
in   the   जल्दी  1990s Selena started manufacturing  उसके  own line of women  's   कपडे  .
Opening two boutiques labeled as  ``  Selena Etc  .  Boutique &  सैलून  ''  एक   स्तिथ  in Corpus Christi  और   एक   स्तिथ   in  San Antonio ,  टेक्सास  .
One  थी  due to open  in  Monterrey , Mexico  ,  in  1995  but  due   to   उसके  death it was  नहीं   खोली   .
around  1999  the  San Antonio location closed  और  the Corpus Christi location  थी  closed  in  2009 .
In late  1990s  some European retail  व्यापारियों   विकसित  the idea of  tailoring   a  shop towards  a  lifestyle theme ,  in  the form  of   ``  concept stores '' ,  जिससे  specialised in  cross-selling  without using separate departments  .
एक   of   the  first  अवधारणा   स्टोर्स   थी   10   कोरसो  Como  in  Milan  ,   इटली  followed  by   colette  in Paris and Quartier 206 in  बर्लिन  .
अनेक  well-known American chains such  as  Urban Outfitters  ,   d-a-s-h  ,  और  The Gap , Australian chain  billabong   और   ,   हालांकि   कम  common , Lord & Taylor adapted to  the  concept  स्टोर   ट्रेंड   बाद  2000 .
Navy Federal Credit  संघ  (  or  Navy Federal  )   is   a  credit union headquartered in Vienna , Virginia  ,  chartered  और  regulated  अंतर्गत   the  authority  of  the National Credit  संघ   प्रशासन  (  ncua  ) of  the  U.S.  संघीय  government .
Navy Federal  is  the largest  प्राकृतिक  member (  or   खुदरा  ) credit  संघ  in the world , both in asset  आकार  and in membership  .
As of September  2012  , Navy  संघीय  had over  $   50  billion USD in assets  ,   और   over  4 million  सदस्यों  .
Stevland  hardaway   मॉरिस  ( born  may  13  ,   1950   as   stevland  Hardaway Judkins ) , known by  उसके  stage name  स्टीवी   अचरज  , is an American singer  ,   songwriter  ,  और  multi-instrumentalist  ,  a child prodigy who developed  into  one  of  the  सबसे  creative  musical   आंकड़े  of  the  late 20th century .
Blind since  shortly   बाद   जनम  ,  अचरज   हस्ताक्षरित   साथ  Motown 's Tamla label  at  the age  of  eleven  ,  and continues  to  perform and record  लिये  Motown  to  this day .
among  Wonder  's   बेहतरीन  known works are singles  ऐसे  as  ``   अंधविश्वास   ``   ,  `` Sir  ड्यूक   ``  , ``  तुम  Are the  सनशाइन  of My Life ``  और   ``  I Just Called  to  Say I Love  तुम  `` .
खूब  known albums also  शामिल  Talking Book ,  innervisions  and Songs in the Key  of   जीवन   .
He  रै  recorded  अधिक  than thirty U.S. top ten hits and received twenty-two Grammy Awards  ,  the most ever  awarded   to  a  पुरूष   सोलो   कलाकार  .
Wonder  is  also noted for  उसके   कार्य  as an  activist  for political causes  ,  including his 1980 campaign to make Martin Luther King  ,  Jr. 's birthday a  अवकाश  in the United States  .
In 2009 , Wonder  थी  named a  संयुक्त   राष्ट्र   मेसेंजर   of   सलाम   .
In 2008 , Billboard magazine released a list  of  the  hot  100 All-Time  शीर्ष  Artists  to  celebrate the  us  singles chart  's  fiftieth  वर्षगांठ  ,  साथ  Wonder  at   क्रमांक  five  .
by  popular  vote  ,  स्टीवी  was inducted  into   the   soulmusic   हॉल  of Fame at  soulmusic.com  in  दिसम्बर  2012  .
Psychosis  (  from  the   यूनानी   ψυχή   ``  psyche '' ,  लिये  mind/soul , and -ωσις ``  -ओएसआईs  ''  ,  for  असामान्य  condition or  derangement  )  refers   to   an   असामान्य  condition  of  the mind , and is a  जेनेरिक  psychiatric  पद   लिये  a mental state  प्रायः  described as involving a `` loss of contact with  वास्तविकता   ``  .
People  कष्ट  from psychosis are described  as  psychotic  .
Psychosis  is   दिए  to the more severe  फ़ॉर्म  of  मनोरोग  disorder ,  दौरान  which  मति   और  delusions , gross excitement or  बेहोशी  and impaired insight may occur .
The term `` psychosis  ''  is very broad  और   can   औसत   anything  from relatively  सामान्य  aberrant  अनुभवों  through  to  the complex and  catatonic  expressions of  schizophrenia   और  bipolar type  1  disorder .
Moreover a wide  किस्में  of  सेंट्रल   बेचैन  system diseases ,  इससे   दोनो  external  substances  and internal physiologic illness , can produce symptoms  of  psychosis .
This led  अनेक  professionals to  कह   कि  psychosis is not  विशिष्ट   पर्याप्त  as a  निदान  term .
Despite  इस  , ``  मनस्ताप  ''  is   generally  given to noticeable deficits in  सामान्य  behavior  (  negative  लक्षण  )  और   अधिक   commonly   to  diverse types of hallucinations or delusional  मान्यताओं  (  e.g  .  grandiosity  ,  delusions   of  persecution ) .
Someone exhibiting very  स्पष्ट  signs may be described as  ``   frankly   psychotic  '' ,  whereas   एक   exhibiting  very subtle signs  could  be classified  in   the  category of an ``  attenuated  psychotic risk  सिंड्रोम  '' .
An excess in dopaminergic  signalling  is traditionally linked  to   the  positive symptoms of psychosis  ,  especially  those   of   schizophrenia  .
इस   is   विचार  to occur  through  a mechanism of aberrant salience of environmental stimuli  .
Many antipsychotic drugs accordingly  निशाना  the dopamine  प्रणाली  ;  meta-analyses  of placebo-controlled trials  of  these  दवाएँ  , however  ,  show  either   no   significant   अंतर  between drug and  placebo  , or a very  छोटी   प्रभाव  size  ,  suggesting that the pathophysiology of psychosis is  much  more  जटिल   than   an   overactive  dopamine  प्रणाली  .
People  experiencing   मनस्ताप   may  exhibit  कुछ  personality changes and thought disorder  .
Depending on  इसके  severity , this  may  be accompanied by  असामान्य  or  विचित्र   बर्ताव   ,  as  खूब  as  परेशानी  with  सोशल  interaction and impairment in  carrying  out daily life activities .
General  grievous   is  a  fictional  character  in  the Star  युद्धों   ब्रह्मांड  .
A recurring antagonist , he is the Supreme Commander  of  the Confederacy of Independent Systems ,  a  political faction  of  planetary systems waging war  on   the   गांगेय   गणतंत्र  .
प्रशिक्षित  in all seven forms of lightsaber combat  by  Count  dooku  ,  he   is  a  निष्ठुर  and  शक्तिशाली  warrior devoted  to  Jedi  's   विनाश  during the Clone  युद्धों  .
His acts of  wanton  aggression and high Jedi  देह  count  होता   संकेत  the  आकाशगंगा  to give him  the  nickname the Knightslayer  .
Though  the  notorious  जेडी  slayer  थी   the  being in the galaxy during the  क्लोन   युद्धों  who  था  killed the most Jedi  in  single  कॉम्बैट  ,  he  did not hesitate to flee from battles he knew he would  खोना  .
आंकडे   खेल   an  important  भूमिका   in   summarizing  baseball performance and evaluating players in the sport .
Since the flow of  a   बेसबॉल  game has natural  ब्रेक  to  it   ,  and  सामान्यतः  players act individually rather than performing in clusters , the sport lends itself to  आसान  record-keeping and  आंकडे   .
आंकडे   have  been kept  लिये   पेशेवर  baseball  चूंकि   the  creation of  the  National  लीग   और  American  लीग  ,  अभी  part of Major League Baseball  .
Many statistics are also  उपलब्धियाँ   इससे   बाहर   of  Major League Baseball ,  इससे  leagues  ऐसे  as the National  संघ   of   पेशेवर   आधार  Ball Players  और  the Negro Leagues .
Dorothea Lange 's Migrant Mother depicts  अक्षम  pea pickers in California ,  centering  on  फ्लोरेंस   ओवेन्स   थॉम्पसन  ,  आयु  32 ,  a  mother of  सात   children  , in Nipomo ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , March 1936 .
USA  सालाना  real GDP from 1910–60 , with the years of the  ग्रेट   अवसाद   (  1929–1939  )  highlighted  .
the  unemployment  रेट  in the  us   1910–1960  ,  साथ   the   सालो  of  the   ग्रेट  Depression  (   1929–1939  ) highlighted .
The Great Depression was  a   कठोर  worldwide economic  अवसाद  in the  दशक  preceding World  युद्ध  II .
the   समय  of  the  Great  अवसाद   varied   आरपार   राष्ट्र  , but  in  most countries  it  started in 1930  और  lasted until  the   लेट   1930s  or middle 1940s  .
it  was the  longest  , most widespread , and deepest depression  of  the 20th  सदी  .
In the  21st   सदी   ,   the   ग्रेट   अवसाद   is   commonly   प्रयुक्त   as  an example of how far the  संसार   's   अर्थव्यवस्था   can  decline  .
the  depression  originated  in the U.S. ,  बाद  the  पतन  in stock prices that began  around  September  4   ,   1929   ,   और  became  विश्वव्यापी  news with  the  stock market crash of October 29  ,  1929 ( known  as   ब्लैक   मंगलवार  ) .
The Great  अवसाद   था  devastating effects  in   देशों   समृद्ध   और   ग़रीब  .
Personal  आय   ,  tax revenue ,  profits   और  prices  dropped  , while international trade plunged by more than 50 %  .
बेरोजगारी   in  the U.S.  रोज़  to 25 % ,  और  in  कुछ  countries  रोज़   as  high as  33  % .
शहरों   सब  around the world were hit  मुश्किल   ,  especially those  निर्भर  on heavy industry .
Construction was  वस्तुतः  halted in many countries  .
Farming and rural areas suffered as crop prices fell by  लगभग  60  %   .
Facing plummeting  माँग   साथ   few  alternate sources  of  jobs  ,  areas dependent  on  primary  सेक्टर   उद्योग  such as cash  cropping   ,  mining and  लॉगिंग  suffered  the  most  .
कुछ   economies  started to  रिकवर   by  the mid-1930s .
in   अनेक   देशों   ,  the negative effects of the Great  अवसाद   lasted   जबतक  the  समाप्त   of  World War II .
A premature  ventricular  contraction ( PVC ) ,  भी   ज्ञात  as  a  premature  ventricular  complex  ,  ventricular premature contraction ( or complex  or   देवालय   )  ( VPC  )  , ventricular premature beat ( VPB  )   ,  or ventricular  extrasystole  (  ves  ) ,  is  a relatively common  इवेंट   जहाँ  the  धड़कन  is initiated  by  Purkinje fibres  in  the ventricles rather than by the sinoatrial node ,  the  normal heartbeat initiator  .
The  विद्युत   कार्यक्रम  of the heart  detected   by  the  electrocardiogram   allow  a PVC to be easily  विशिष्ट   इससे  a normal  दिल  beat .
a  PVC may be  आभास   as  a  ``  skipped beat `` or  लगा   as  palpitations in  the   छाती  .
In a  सामान्य  heartbeat  ,   the   ventricles  contract after the  atria   have  helped  to  fill them by  contracting   ;  in this  रास्ता  the  ventricles   can  pump a  maximized   राशि   of  blood both  to  the  फेफड़े  and to the rest of the body  .
in  a PVC  ,   the   ventricles  contract first and  पहले  the atria  have   optimally  filled the ventricles with blood , which means  कि  circulation is  अकुशल  .
However  ,  single  ताल  PVC arrhythmias do not usually pose a danger and  can   be   asymptomatic  in healthy  individuals  .
विलियम  Gary Busey  (  born  जून   29  ,  1944  )  ,  better known as  गेरी   busey  , is  an  American film  और  stage  कर्ता  ,  और   कलाकार  .
He has  appeared   in  a variety of films ,  सहित   lethal  Weapon ,  पाइंट  Break  ,  and  अंतर्गत  Siege , as well  as   अतिथि  appearances on Gunsmoke , Walker , Texas Ranger  ,   विधि   &   अनुक्रम   ,  and Entourage  .
He was  मनोनीत  for an Academy Award for  बेहतरीन   कर्ता   in  1978 for his role  in   the  Buddy  होली   स्टोरी  .
The Anti-Counterfeiting  व्यापार   अनुबंध  (  acta  ) , is a  बहुराष्ट्रीय   सन्धि  for the  purpose   of   establishing  international standards for  बौद्धिक   प्रॉपर्टी  rights enforcement .
The  अनुबंध  aims  to  establish an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  legal  फ्रेमवर्क  for targeting counterfeit goods ,  जेनेरिक   दवाइयाँ   और  copyright  infringement  on the Internet , and would create a  नई  governing  देह   बाहर   मौजूदा  forums  ,   ऐसे  as  the   संसार  Trade Organization ,  the   संसार  Intellectual Property Organization ,  or  the United  राष्ट्र   .
The agreement was  हस्ताक्षरित   in   अक्तूबर  2011 by  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   ,  Canada ,  जापानी   ,  Morocco  ,   नई  Zealand ,  सिंगापुर   ,   दक्षिण  Korea  ,  and  the  United  राज्य  .
in   2012  ,  मैक्सिको  , the European Union and 22  देशों  which are member states  of  the European  संघ   हस्ताक्षरित   as  well .
एक  signatory ( Japan ) has ratified  (  formally approved ) the agreement  ,   जिससे  would come  into   फ़ोर्स  in countries that ratified  it  after ratification  by  six  देशों  .
Supporters  have  described  the   अनुबंध   as   a   जवाब   to  `` the  बढ़ाएँ   in   वैश्विक  trade of  नकली  goods and pirated  कापीराइट  protected works  ''  .
Trades Unions representing  मजदूर  in the music ,  फिल्मी   और  TV industries and large  बौद्धिक  property-based  संगठन   ऐसे   as  the  गति  Picture  संघ  of America and Pharmaceutical  शोध  and  निर्माताओं   of  America were  क्रियाशील  in the treaty 's  विकास   .
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों  say the convention adversely affects  आधारभूत   अधिकारों  including  स्वतंत्रता   of  expression and privacy .
acta   रै   भी   महरूम  criticised  by  Doctors Without  सीमायें   लिये  endangering  अभिगम  to medicines in  विकासशील  countries .
the  secret nature of negotiations has excluded  सिविल   समाज  groups , developing  देशों   और   the  general  पब्लिक   इससे  the  अनुबंध  's negotiation process  और   it   रै   महरूम   वर्णित   as  policy  laundering  by critics including the Electronic  frontier  Foundation  और  the Entertainment  उपभोक्ता   संघ  .
The signature of  the  EU  और   अनेक  of its  सदस्य  states  resulted  in the resignation in  विरोध  of the  यूरोपीय   पार्लियामेंट   's   नियुक्त   मुख्य  investigator , rapporteur  कादर   आरिफ  , as well  as   फैली  protests across  यूरोपीय   .
In 2012  the   newly-appointed  rapporteur , British MEP  दाउद   मार्टिन   ,  recommended  विरूद्ध  the  सन्धि   ,  stating  :   ``  The intended benefits of this  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  agreement  हैं   दूर  outweighed  by  the potential  खतरे  to  सिविल  liberties '' .
On 4  जुलाई   2012  , the European  पार्लियामेंट   अस्वीकृत  the  अनुबंध  in  plenary  session  ,  with 478  मतदान  against  the  treaty  ,  39 in favour and 165 MEPs  abstaining  .
FAW semi-trailer  ट्रक  in China
Tractor  साथ  side dump trailer  semi-trailer
A tractor  साथ  an auto-transport semi-trailer  .
semi-trailer  truck  साथ  sleeper  पीछे  the cab .
a   semi-trailer  truck  is   an   articulated  vehicle that consists  of  a towing engine  ,  known  as   a  tractor in the United  राज्य  and truck in  अनेक  other places , attached  to   एक  or more semi-trailers  to  carry  भाड़ा  .
it   is  also known as  a   हस्तांतरण   in   कनाडा  ,  प्रधान   प्रस्तावक   in   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  ,  सेमी  , tractor-trailer  ,  truck and trailer , transfer truck , 18-wheeler , mack truck  ,  big rig in the  संयुक्त  States , or artic ,  छोटी   लिये  articulated  लारी  , in  ब्रिटेन  and Ireland  .
a   semi-trailer   करता   नहीं  trail  completely  behind the towing vehicle  ,  but is attached at a point that is just  आगे  of  the   rear-most  axle of the towing unit  .
इस  is done so that  a  fraction  of   the   वज़न   of   the  trailer is carried by  the   प्रधान  mover .
This arrangement means  कि  both  ट्रैक्टर   और  semi-trailer will have a distinctly  अलग  design  than   a  rigid truck and trailer .
the   पिट्सबर्ग  Steelers are  a  professional football team based  in  Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania  .
The team currently  belongs  to the  उत्तर  Division of the American  फ़ुटबॉल   सम्मेलन  (  afc   )  in  the  National  फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL  )  .
संस्थापित  in ,  the  Steelers are the oldest franchise in the  afc  .
पिट्सबर्ग  has  जीती  more  सुपर  Bowl  शीर्षक   (   छह  ) ,  जीती  more  afc  Championship  खेल   (  eight  )   और  played  in  (  पंद्रह   )  and hosted  अधिक   (   ग्यारह  ) conference championship games than any other  afc   or   nfc   टोली  .
The Steelers  share  the  रिकार्ड  for most Super Bowl appearances with  the  Dallas Cowboys  (  eight  )   .
the  Steelers  जीती  their most recent championship , Super Bowl  xliii   ,  on February 1  ,  2009  .
The Steelers were founded  as   the   पिट्सबर्ग  Pirates on July 8 , 1933 , by  आर्ट  Rooney  ,  taking  इसके   असली   नाम  from the baseball  टोली   of  the  वही  name  ,  as was  आम  practice for  एनएफएल   टीमों   to  do at  the  time  .
the  ownership of the  स्टीलर्स  has remained within the Rooney family since  इसके   founding  .
the  current  मालिक   is  Art 's son  ,  Dan Rooney  ,  who  रै   दिए  much  कंट्रोल  of the franchise  to  his  बेटे  Art Rooney  ii  .
Long one  of  the  एनएफएल   's   फ्लैगशिप   टीमों  , the Steelers enjoy a large  ,  widespread  fanbase  nicknamed Steeler Nation .
The  स्टीलर्स   फिलहाल  play their home games at Heinz Field on Pittsburgh  's  North Side  in  the North Shore  पड़ोस  , which also hosts the University  of   पिट्सबर्ग  Panthers  .
Built  in   2001   ,  the stadium  replaced  Three Rivers Stadium  जिससे   hosted  the Steelers for 31  सीज़न  .
Prior to Three  नदियाँ  , the Steelers had  निभाई   उनके  games in Pitt Stadium and  फोर्ब्स   फ़ील्ड  .
Three  अलग  kinds of wheat and  rye   आटा
Flour is  a  powder which is made  by  grinding cereal  दाने  ,  or   अन्य   बीज  or  जड़ें  ( like Cassava )  .
it  is the main  संघटक  of  ब्रैड   ,   जिससे  is a staple food for  अनेक  cultures , making  the   उपलब्धता   of   पर्याप्त   आपूर्तियाँ  of flour  a  major  आर्थिक   और  political issue at various  टाइम्स  throughout history  .
गेहूं  flour is one of  the  most  महत्वपूर्ण  foods in European , North American , Middle Eastern  ,   भारतीय  and North African cultures , and  is  the defining  संघटक   in  most  of  their styles of breads  और   pastries  .
जबकि   गेहूं  is  the  most common base  लिये  flour , corn flour  रै   महरूम   महत्वपूर्ण   in  Mesoamerican cuisine since  प्राचीन   टाइम्स  ,  और  remains a  स्टेपल   throughout   the  Americas .
Rye  आटा  is an  महत्वपूर्ण  constituent  of   ब्रैड  in  much  of central Europe , and  राइस  can also  be  used in  आटा  ,  हालांकि  this is  अपेक्षाकृत  uncommon .
दिल  rate  is  the  क्रमांक   of  heartbeats  प्रति  unit of time  ,  typically  expressed   as  beats  प्रति  minute (  bpm   )   .
Heart  रेट   can   vary  as  the  body  's  need  to  absorb oxygen and excrete carbon dioxide changes  ,  such  as   दौरान  physical exercise , sleep ,  बीमारी   ,  or as a  परिणाम  of ingesting drugs :
Central nervous system  stimulants   ऐसे  as amphetamines increase heart rate .
Central nervous system  depressants   or  sedatives decreases  the  heart  रेट  (  अलावा  from  कुछ   विशेषकर  strange ones with equally strange  प्रभाव  ,  ऐसे   as   केटामाइन   जिससे   can  cause - amongst  अनेक  other  बाते  -  stimulant-like  effects such  as  tachycardia )  .
There are many ways  in   जिससे  the heart rate  speeds  up  or  slows  bas  .
Most  involve   stimulant-like   endorphins  and hormones being  released   in  the brain , many  of   जिससे  are  those  that are  'forced'/'enticed   '  out by the  ingestion   और  processing of drugs  .
Due  to   individuals   having   a   निरंतर   रक्त   आवाज़   ,  one  of   the  physiological  तरीके   to  deliver more  ऑक्सीजन   to  an  अंग  is  to  increase  दिल   रेट  to permit blood  to  pass by the organ more often  .
सामान्य  resting  दिल   दरों  range from 60-100 bpm .
मंदनाड़ी   is  defined as  a  resting heart rate  नीचे   60  bpm .
however  ,  दिल  rates from 50 to 60  bpm  are common  among  healthy  लोगों  and do not  necessarily  require  खास  attention  .
tachycardia   is  defined as a resting heart rate above  100   bpm  ,  हालांकि   persistent   बाकी  rates  between   80-100   bpm  , mainly if they  हैं   उपस्थित   दौरान   नींद   ,  may  be  signs of  हाइपरथाइरॉयडिज़्म   or  anemia ( see  नीचे  )  .
कैथरीन  II  's   carved  , painted  और   gilded  Coronation  कोच  (  hermitage  Museum )
A carriage  is   a   wheeled  vehicle  लिये   लोगों   ,   प्रायः   horse-drawn  ; litters ( palanquins )  और   सेडान  chairs are excluded  ,  since  वे   हैं   wheelless  vehicles .
The carriage is  विशेषकर  designed for private  यात्री   उपयोग   और  for  सुकून  or  लालित्य   ,  though some are  भी  used  to   हस्तांतरण  goods .
it   may  be  लाइट   ,  smart and  तेज़   or  heavy , large  और  comfortable .
carriages  normally have suspension  using   पत्ता   स्रोतों  , elliptical  स्रोतों  ( in the  19th  century  )   or  leather strapping .
a  public passenger vehicle would not usually  be   पुकारा   a  carriage –  शर्तें  for  ऐसे   शामिल  stagecoach , charabanc  और   omnibus  .
Working  वाहनों   ऐसे  as  the  ( four-wheeled  )   वैगन   और   (   two-wheeled  ) cart  share  important parts  of   the   इतिहास  of the  carriage   ,  as is  the  fast  (   two-wheeled  ) chariot .
the  2004 Indian Ocean  भूकंप  was an undersea  megathrust  earthquake that occurred  at   00:58:53  UTC on Sunday , 26 December  2004   ,   साथ  an epicentre off the  वेस्ट  coast of Sumatra  ,  Indonesia .
The quake itself is known by  the  scientific  जातियाँ  as the Sumatra–Andaman earthquake  .
The  resulting  tsunami was given  विभिन्न  names  ,   सहित  the 2004 Indian  समंदर  tsunami ,  दक्षिण  Asian tsunami , Indonesian tsunami , and  the  Boxing Day  सुनामी   .
The earthquake  थी  caused  by  subduction  और   triggered  a  श्रेणी   of  devastating tsunamis along the  coasts  of most landmasses  bordering  the Indian Ocean , killing over 230,000 people  in  fourteen countries , and inundating  तटीय   समुदायों   साथ  waves  up  to  ऊँची  .
It was one of the  deadliest  natural disasters  in  recorded  इतिहास   .
Indonesia was the  hardest-hit   देश   ,  followed by Sri Lanka ,  इण्डिया   ,  and Thailand .
With  a  magnitude of Mw  9.1–9.3  ,  it   is  the  तीसरा  largest  भूकंप   कभी   अंकित   on   a   seismograph  .
the   भूकंप  had the  longest   अवधि  of faulting ever  observed   ,  between 8.3  और  10 minutes .
it   caused  the  संपूर्ण  planet to  हिलना  as  much  as  और  triggered  अन्य  earthquakes  as   दूर  away as Alaska .
इसके  epicentre  थी  between Simeulue  और   मेनलैंड   इंडोनेशिया  .
The plight of the affected people and  देशों  prompted a  विश्वव्यापी  humanitarian  जवाब   .
In  सब   ,   the   विश्वव्यापी  community donated more than $ 14  अरब  (  2004   us   $  ) in  humanitarian   सहायता   .
भाप  rising  इससे  the  nesjavellir  Geothermal Power Station in  आइसलैंड   .
geothermal   उर्जा  is thermal  उर्जा  generated  और   भंडारित  in  the  Earth  .
थर्मल  energy is  the  energy  कि  determines the temperature of matter .
the   geothermal  energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the original  गठन  of the  ग्रह  (  20  %  )   और   इससे   रेडियोसक्रिय  decay  of  minerals ( 80 % ) .
the   geothermal   अनुपात  , which  is  the  अंतर  in temperature  between  the  कोर  of  the  planet and its surface  ,  drives a continuous  conduction  of thermal energy in the  रूप   of  heat from the  कोर  to the surface  .
the   क्रियाशील   geothermal   originates   इससे  the Greek  जड़ें   γη  (  ge  )  ,  meaning earth ,  और   θερμος   (  thermos  )  ,  अर्थ  hot .
at  the core  of   the   धरती  , thermal energy is  निर्मित  by  रेडियोसक्रिय   क्षय  and temperatures may reach over 5000  °c   (   9,000  °F  )   .
Heat conducts from the core  to  surrounding  कूलर  rock  .
The  ऊँची  temperature and  दबाव   कारण  some rock  to  melt , creating magma convection upward since  it   is   हल्का  than  the   ठोस  rock .
the  magma  heats   चट्टान   और  water in the  क्रस्ट  , sometimes up  to   370  °C (  700   °f  )  .
इससे  hot springs , geothermal  उर्जा   रै  been used for bathing since  paleolithic  times and  लिये  space heating since ancient  रोमन   टाइम्स   ,  but it is now better  ज्ञात  for electricity  पीढी   .
Worldwide  ,   परिचय  10,715 megawatts (  mw  ) of geothermal power  is  online in 24 countries .
An additional 28 gigawatts of  सीधा   geothermal  heating  क्षमता  is installed for district heating  ,   स्पेस  heating , spas ,  औद्योगिक  processes , desalination  और  agricultural applications  .
Geothermal  शक्ति  is cost  प्रभावी   ,  reliable , sustainable , and environmentally friendly  ,  but has  historically  been  सीमित   to  areas near  tectonic  plate boundaries .
हाल   technological   अग्रिम   have   dramatically   विस्तारित  the  दायरा  and size  of  viable resources ,  विशेषकर   लिये   अनुप्रयोग   ऐसे  as home heating  ,   खोलने  a potential for widespread exploitation  .
geothermal   कुएं  release  ग्रीनहाउस  gases trapped  गहन   भीतर  the earth ,  लकिन  these  emissions  are much  निम्नतर   प्रति  energy  ईकाई  than those  of  fossil fuels  .
as  a  परिणाम  , geothermal  शक्ति  has  the  potential to help mitigate global  वार्मिंग  if widely  तैनात   in  place  of  fossil fuels .
the  Earth 's  geothermal  resources  हैं   theoretically  more than adequate  to  supply humanity 's  उर्जा  needs , but  तभी  a  बहुत  small  भिन्न  may be profitably  शोषित  .
खुदाई   और  exploration  लिये  deep resources is very  महंगी   .
forecasts   लिये  the future of geothermal power  निर्भर   on  assumptions  परिचय   प्रौद्योगिकी  , energy  कीमतें   ,  subsidies  ,   और  interest rates  .
Pilot programs like EWEB 's  ग्राहक   ऑप्ट  in  ग्रीन  Power Program  दिखाएँ  that  ग्राहक   होता  be willing to pay  a   छोटी  more for a  बेदर्दी  energy source like geothermal  .
But as  a   परिणाम  of government  assisted  research and industry experience , the  लागत  of generating geothermal power has decreased by  25   %  over the past two decades .
In  2001  , geothermal  उर्जा  cost between  दो  and ten cents per kwh  .
the   पद  cubic foot is an Imperial and US customary  (   non-  metric  )  unit of volume  ,  used in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  and  the   संयुक्त   किंगडम  .
It is defined as  the  volume  of  a  घन   साथ  sides of  एक  foot (  0.3048  m  )  in  लंबाई  .
to  calculate cubic feet multiply length  x   चौडाई  X  ऊँचाई   .
Hồ  chí  Minh ( Northern  वियतनामी  pronunciation  :   ,  Southern Vietnamese  उच्चारण  : )  ;  19  may   1890  – 2 September  1969   )   ,  born Nguyễn  sinh   cung  and also  ज्ञात  as Nguyễn  tất   thành  and Nguyễn  ái  Quốc ,  थी   a  Vietnamese communist  क्रांतिकारी  leader  जो  was  प्रधान  minister  (  1945–1955  )   और   अध्यक्ष   (  1945–1969 ) of the  लोकतांत्रिक   गणतंत्र   of  Vietnam  (  North  वियतनाम  )  .
he  was  a  key figure  in  the foundation of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1945 , as  खूब  as the  people’s  Army  of  Vietnam  (  PAVN  )  and the Việt Cộng (  nlf  or  vc   )  during the  वियतनाम  War  .
He led the Việt Minh  स्वतंत्रता  movement  इससे   1941  onward  ,   establishing   the  communist -ruled  लोकतांत्रिक   गणतंत्र  of Vietnam  in   1945   और  defeating  the   फ्रेंच  Union in 1954 at the battle of Điện  biên   phủ  .
He  officially   stepped   bas   इससे  power  in  1955  due   to  health problems ,  लकिन  remained  a   अत्यधिक  visible  figurehead   और  inspiration for those Vietnamese fighting for his cause—a united  ,  communist Vietnam—until his  मौत   .
बाद  the  युद्ध  ,  साइगॉन  ,  पूंजी  of  the  Republic of  वियतनाम  ,  थी   renamed  Hồ Chí Minh City  .
सब  Roads  सीसे  Home  is  a feature  फिल्मी   released  on September 26 , 2008  .
निर्देशित   by  Dennis  fallon  ,  it  stars Peter Boyle ,  patton  Oswalt ,  जेसन   लंदन   ,  Vivien Cardone , Vanessa Branch , Peter Coyote ,  स्टीफन  Milton  ,   और  Allan  kayser  .
The  फिल्म  was  फिल्माया   in   और  around Kansas  नगर  , Missouri  .
The movie made its World Premiere  जनवरी   27  at the  सांता  Barbara  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Film Festival .
The film  रै   भी   recently  been  in  several film festivals ,  और   रै   प्राप्त  bad reviews .
Peter  बॉयल  died  पहले  the movie 's  रिलीज  .
It  थी  the last movie  he   appeared   in  .
Sales  कर  in  the   संयुक्त  States are taxes placed on  the   बिक्री  or  पट्टे  of  goods  and  सेवाएं   in  the  संयुक्त  States .
जबकि   no  national general  बिक्री   कर  exists ,  the   संघीय   सरकारी  levies several  नेशनल  selective sales taxes  on   the   बिक्री  or lease  of  particular  goods  and services .
Furthermore , forty-five states  ,  the  ज़िला  of Columbia  ,  and  गुआम   थोपने   सामान्य   बिक्री  taxes  कि  apply  to   the   बिक्री  or  पट्टे  of  सबसे   goods  and some services ,  और  states  भी  may levy selective  बिक्री  taxes on the  बिक्री   or  lease  of  particular goods  or  services .
राज्य  may also delegate  to  local governments  the  authority  to  impose additional  सामान्य   or  selective  बिक्री  taxes .
बिक्री   कर   is   गणना  by multiplying the purchase  दाम  by the  लागू  tax rate .
कर  rates vary  widely  by jurisdiction and range  इससे  less  than  1 % to over 10 %  .
बिक्री  tax is collected by the  विक्रेता   at   the   समय   of  sale .
उपयोग  tax  is  self  assessed  by a buyer  जो   रै  not  सशुल्क  sales  कर   on   a   taxable   खरीदें  .
Unlike the value added tax , a  बिक्री  tax is imposed only once , at the retail  स्तर  .
However  ,  in  मामले   जहाँ  items are sold at retail more  than   एकबार  , such  as   प्रयुक्त  cars , the  बिक्री  tax  can   be  charged  on  the  वही   मद  indefinitely .
the  definition  of   खुदरा  sales  और   कया   goods  and services are taxable  vary   among   the   राज्य  .
Nearly all jurisdictions provide  numerous  categories of  goods  and services that  हैं  exempt from  बिक्री  tax  ,  or taxed  at   घटाया  rates .
The purchase of goods for  further  manufacture or  लिये   पुनर्विक्रय  is uniformly  exempt  from  बिक्री  tax .
सबसे  jurisdictions  exempt  food  बेची   in  grocery  स्टोर्स  ,  नुस्खा   medications  ,  और  many agricultural  आपूर्तियाँ  .
Sales  कर   ,  including those  imposed   by   लोकल  governments  ,  are generally  administered  at the state level  .
States  imposing  sales  कर  require  खुदरा  sellers  to  collect tax from customers  ,  file returns  ,   और  remit  the  tax to  the  state .
प्रक्रियात्मक  rules vary widely .
Sellers  generally  must collect tax from  in-state  purchasers unless  the  purchaser provides an  exemption  certificate  .
सबसे  states  allow  or require electronic remittance  .
A central  प्रसंस्करण   ईकाई  ( CPU ) , also  referred   to  as a  सेंट्रल  processor  ईकाई  , is the  हार्डवेयर   भीतर  a computer that  carries  out the  निर्देश  of a  कंप्यूटर   कार्यक्रम  by  performing   the   मौलिक  arithmetical  ,   लॉजिकल   ,   और  input/output operations of  the   प्रणाली   .
the  term  रै  been  in  use in  the  computer industry  at   तनिक  since the early 1960s .
The form  ,  design , and  क्रियान्वयन  of  cpu  have changed over the course of their history , but their fundamental operation  remains  much  the  same .
A computer  can   have   अधिक  than one CPU ; this is called  multiprocessing   .
कुछ   एकीकृत   circuits  (  ics   )   can  contain  अनेक  CPUs on a  सिंगल   चिप  ;  those  ICs are  पुकारा  multi-core processors .
दो  typical components of a  cpu   हैं   the  arithmetic logic unit  (   alu  ) , which  performs   गणित  and logical  परिचालन   ,   और   the  control unit  (   cu  ) , which  extracts  instructions from  मेमोरी  and decodes  और  executes  उन्हें  , calling on  the  ALU  जब   जरुरी   .
नहीं  all  कम्प्यूटेशनल  systems rely on a  सेंट्रल   प्रसंस्करण  unit  .
An  सरणी   प्रोसेसर   or  vector  प्रोसेसर  has  अनेक   समानांतर  computing elements  ,  with no one unit  माना  the `` center '' .
in   the  distributed  कम्प्यूटिंग  model  ,  problems  हैं  solved  by  a distributed interconnected set of processors  .
RFID chip  अगला  to  a   अनाज  of  राइस   .
इस   चिप  contains a radio-frequency  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  field coil that  modulates   an   बाह्य   चुम्बकीय  field to transfer  a   coded   पहचान  number when  queried  by  a  reader device .
इस   छोटी  type  is  incorporated in consumer products  ,  and implanted  in  pets ,  लिये  identification purposes  .
radio-frequency   पहचान   (  RFID )  is  the  बेतार  non-contact  उपयोग  of  radio-frequency  electromagnetic  फ़ील्ड   to   ट्रांसफ़र  data  ,  for the purposes  of  automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects .
The tags  contain   electronically  stored information .
कुछ  tags  हैं  powered and  पढ़ा   at  short  सीमाएँ  ( a few meters  )  via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic induction ) .
Others use  a   लोकल  power source such as  a  battery , or else  have  no battery but collect  उर्जा  from the  interrogating  EM field , and then act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio  लहरें  (  i.e.  ,  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक   विकिरण   at   ऊँची  frequencies  )  .
Battery powered tags  may   operate   at   सैंकड़ों  of meters .
Unlike a  बार  code , the tag does  नहीं  necessarily  need   to  be  भीतर   लकीर   of  sight of the  रीडर   ,   और  may be embedded in the  tracked   ऑब्जेक्ट  .
RFID tags are  प्रयुक्त  in  अनेक   उद्योग  .
An  rfid  tag attached to an automobile during production  can   be  used to track its progress through the assembly line  .
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked  through  warehouses .
पशुधन  and pets may  have  tags injected , allowing positive identification  of  the animal .
Since  rfid  tags  can  be  संलग्न  to clothing , possessions , or even implanted within  लोगों  ,  the   सम्भावना   of  reading personally-linked information without  सहमति   रै  raised privacy  चिंताएं  .
Overtime is the amount  of  time someone works  परे  normal working  घंटों   .
सामान्य   घंटों  may  be  determined  in  several ways:
by custom (  कया  is considered healthy  or   उचित   by  society  )  ,
by  practices   of  a  दिए  trade or profession,
by   legislation,
by   अनुबंध  between  नियोक्ता   और   मजदूर  or  उनके   प्रतिनिधि   .
Most nations  have   ओवरटाइम   मजदूर  laws  designed   to  dissuade or  prevent   नियोक्ता  from forcing their  कर्मचारी  to work  excessively  long  घंटों  .
These  कानून   may  take  into  account other considerations than the humanitarian ,  ऐसे   as  preserving the health of  मजदूर   so  that  वे   may  continue to  be   उत्पादक  ,  or   increasing  the  overall   स्तर   of  employment  in   the   अर्थव्यवस्था   .
One common  दृष्टिकोण  to  regulating  overtime is  to   आवश्यकता  employers  to  pay  मजदूर  at  a  higher  hourly  rate for  ओवरटाइम  work .
Companies  may   चुनें  to  अदा  workers  उच्चतर   ओवरटाइम  pay  भी  if not obliged to do  so  by  विधि  ,  विशेषकर   if  they  मानना  that they  फेस   a  backward bending  सप्लाई  curve  of   श्रमिक   .
ओवरटाइम  pay rates  can  cause workers  to   कार्य  longer hours than they would  at  a flat hourly rate  .
Overtime  कानून   ,   attitudes  toward overtime  और  hours  of   कार्य  vary greatly from country  to  country and  between   अलग  economic  सेक्टर   .
Visualization  of  links between pages  on  a wiki using  a  force-directed layout  .
force-directed   आलेख   आरेखण   algorithms   हैं   a   क्लास  of  algorithms  for drawing graphs in an aesthetically  pleasing  way .
Their purpose  is   to  position the nodes of  a  graph  in  two-dimensional  or   three-dimensional   स्पेस  so that  सब  the edges  हैं   of   अधिक   or   कम   बराबर   लंबाई   और  there  हैं   as  few  क्रासिंग  edges as possible , by  assigning   शक्तियां  among the set of  किनारे  and  the  set of nodes  ,  based  on  their relative  स्थितियाँ   ,  and then using  ये   शक्तियां  either to simulate the motion of the edges and nodes  or   to  minimize their energy .
जबकि   आलेख  drawing  can   be  a difficult problem , force-directed  algorithms  ,  होने   शारीरिक   simulations   ,  usually require no  खास  knowledge about graph theory such as planarity  .
Purchasing power  (  sometimes  retroactively  called  समायोजित  for inflation ) is the amount of  goods   or   सेवाएं  that  can  be purchased  साथ   a   ईकाई  of currency .
For  उदाहरण  , if  तुम  had taken  एक  dollar  to  a store in  the  1950s  ,   तुम   होता  have  महरूम   समर्थ  to buy a greater number  of   वस्तुएं  than you would today  ,   indicating  that you would have had a greater  खरीदना  power in the  1950s   .
Currency can  be  either a  कमोडिटी  money , like  सुनहरा   or  silver , or fiat currency ,  or   free-floating  market-valued  करेंसी  like US dollars  .
as   आदम  Smith noted  ,   having   धन   देता  one the ability to  ``  command '' others '  मजदूर  ,  so  purchasing  शक्ति   to  some  extent   is   शक्ति  over other people  ,  to the extent  कि  they are  willing  to trade their  मजदूर   or   goods  for money  or  currency .
If  एक  's  मौद्रिक  income  stays  the  वही  ,  लकिन  the price  स्तर  increases , the purchasing power of that income  जलप्रपात   .
Inflation  करता  not always  imply   गिरना  purchasing power  of  one  's   धन   आय  since it may rise faster than  the  price level  .
A higher real income means a  उच्चतर   खरीदना   शक्ति  since  रियल  income refers  to   the  income adjusted for  महंगाई   .
For  a  price index , its  मान  in the  आधार  year  is   प्रायः   सामान्यीकृत  to  a  value  of   100  .
The purchasing  शक्ति  of  a  unit of currency  ,   कह  a  डालर  , in a given year , expressed in dollars  of  the base  साल  , is 100/P , where P is the  दाम  index in  कि  year  .
So  ,  by definition the  खरीदना   शक्ति   of  a dollar decreases as the price level  उदय  .
the  purchasing power in today 's money of  an   राशि  C of money ,  t  years  into  the future  ,   can  be  computed  with  the  formula  लिये  the present value :
where  in  this  मामला  i is an  assumed   भविष्य   सालाना   महंगाई   रेट   .
शिक्षा   in  South Korea  is   viewed  as  होने  crucial  लिये   कामयाबी   और  competition  is   नतीजतन   बहुत   heated   और  fierce  .
A  सेंट्रल  administration oversees  the   प्रक्रम   लिये  the  शिक्षा   of  children from  किंडरगार्टन  to the  तीसरा  and  फाइनल  year  of   ऊँची  school  .
गणित   ,  science , Korean ,  अंग्रेज़ी  , and social studies are  generally   माना   to   be  the  सबसे   महत्वपूर्ण   विषय  .
Normally  शारीरिक   शिक्षा   is  not considered important  as   it  is  नहीं  recognised , by the  generally  academic elitist South Korean populace  ,   as  education and  इसलिए  many  स्कूलों   कमी  high-quality gymnasiums and varsity  एथलेटिक्स   .
South Korea was the  पहला  country in the world to provide  high-speed   अंतरजाल   अभिगम  to  सब  primary  ,  junior  ,   और   ऊँची  schools .
Although  दक्षिण  Korean students often  रैंक   अत्यधिक  on  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   तुलनात्मक  assessments when  compared  to  विद्यार्थी   of  most Western  शिक्षा   प्रणालियों   ,   the  South Korean education  प्रणाली  is criticised for emphasising too much  upon  passive learning and memorisation .
the  South  कोरियाई   शिक्षा  system  is  rather notably  सख्त  and  overly  structured as compared to its  counterparts   in   सबसे  Western societies .
Also  ,  the prevalence of  non-school  for-profit  निजी  institutes such as academies or cram-schools ( Hagwon [  학원   ]   )  , which  too  emphasise  on   passive   memorisation  ,  as  opposed  to  conceptual  समझना  ,  in  students  हैं  criticised as  a  major social  प्रॉब्लम  .
The  my   lai  Massacre (  ,   ;   ,   ,   or  ) was  the   वियतनाम   युद्ध  mass murder of  between   347  and  504  unarmed civilians  in   दक्षिण  Vietnam  on  March 16 ,  1968  , by  संयुक्त  States Army soldiers of  ``  Charlie  ''  Company  of  1st  बटालियन   ,   20th   infantry   रेजीमेंट  , 11th  ब्रिगेड   of   the   americal  Division  .
Victims included women ,  मेन  , children  ,   और  infants .
Some  of  the  महिलाओं  were gang-raped  और   उनके  bodies were later  मिला  to  be  mutilated  और  many  महिलाओं   यहूद   allegedly  raped prior to  the   हत्याओं   .
While 26  u.S.  soldiers  यहूद   initially  charged with  दण्ड  offenses for their actions at  mỹ   lai  ,  तभी   दूसरी   लेफ्टिनेंट   विलियम  Calley  ,   a   प्लाटून   नेता   in   चार्ली   कम्पनी  , was convicted  .
मिला  guilty of  हत्या  22 villagers , he  थी  originally given a life sentence , but only served  तीन  and a  हाफ   सालो   अंतर्गत  house arrest  .
The massacre  took  place in  the  hamlets of My Lai and  my  Khe of Son My  गाँव  .
the   इवेंट   is   भी   ज्ञात   as  the  बेटे   my   नरसंहार   ,   विशेषकर  in  the  Vietnamese  राज्य   मीडिया   .
The  u.S.  military  codeword  for  the  `` Viet Cong  stronghold  ''  थी  ``  pinkville   ''   .
the  incident prompted global  आक्रोश   जब  it  became   पब्लिक   ज्ञान  in 1969  .
The massacre  भी  increased domestic opposition to the U.S. involvement in  the   वियतनाम  War .
Three U.S.  servicemen   जो   था  tried  to   halt   the  massacre and  protect  the  wounded  were  initially   denounced  by  अनेक   u.s  .  कांग्रेसियों   as   traitors  .
वे  received hate  मेल  and death threats  और   मिला  mutilated animals  on  their doorsteps .
The  तीन   यहूद  later  widely  praised and  सजा  by the  फौज  for their  वीर   क्रियाएँ  .
The hijackers  in   the  September  11   हमले  were 19 men affiliated with  al-qaeda  , and 15  of  the 19  यहूद  citizens of  सऊदी  Arabia  .
Others  यहूद   इससे  Egypt  ,  Lebanon  ,  and the  uae   .
The  hijackers  were organized  into  four  टीमों  , each led  by  a pilot-trained hijacker with four `` muscle hijackers  ''   जो   यहूद  trained to help  subdue   the  pilots  ,   यात्री   ,  and crew  .
The first hijackers to arrive  in  the United States  यहूद  Khalid  al-mihdhar  and Nawaf al-Hazmi ,  जो   settled  in the San Diego  क्षेत्रफल   in  January  2000   .
They  यहूद   followed  by  तीन   hijacker-pilots  ,  मोहम्मद  Atta , Marwan  al-shehhi   ,  and  ziad   jarrah  early in the summer of 2000 to undertake flight training in south Florida .
The fourth  hijacker-pilot   ,  Hani Hanjour ,  arrived  in San Diego in December 2000  .
the   बाकी  of the  ``   मांसपेशी  hijackers  ''  arrived  in   the  spring and  जल्दी  summer of 2001 , just  महीने  before the September 11  हमले   .
Abū  al-qāsim   muḥammad   इब्न  ʿAbd Allāh  इब्न  ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib  इब्न   hāshim   (   )   (   circa|  570  –   circa|  8  जून  632 ) ,  भी   transliterated   as  Muhammad  (  )  ,  was a religious , political ,  और  military leader  इससे   मक्का   जो  unified Arabia into  a  single religious  polity  under  islam  .
he   is  believed  by   मुसलमान  and  bahá'ís  to be a messenger and  नबी   of  God .
Muhammad is almost  universally  considered by  मुसलमान   as  the last  नबी   भेजा  by God for  mankind  .
non-muslims  regard  मुहम्मद  as  the  founder of  islam  .
Muslims  consider  him  to   be   the  restorer  of  an  अनछुए  original  monotheistic  faith of  आदम  , Noah , Abraham  ,   मूसा  , Jesus ,  और   अन्य   नबियों   .
Born in about  570  CE in  the   arabian  city of  मक्का   ,   he  was  अनाथ  at  an  early age and brought up  अंतर्गत  the  परवाह   of  his uncle  abu  Talib .
he   बाद  worked mostly as a  व्यापारी   ,   as  well as a shepherd , and was  पहला  married by age  25   .
होने   in  the  आदत  of periodically retreating to a  गुफा  in the surrounding mountains for several  नाइट्स  of seclusion  और   दुआ   ,   he  later  reported   कि  it was  वहीँ  , at  आयु  40 , that  he  received  उसके   पहला  revelation from God .
Three years after this  इवेंट   मुहम्मद  started preaching these  खुलासे   सरेआम  , proclaiming that  ``  God is One  ``  ,  कि  complete  ``  surrender ''  to   उसे   (   lit   .
islām ) is  the   तभी  way ( dīn  )  acceptable to God ,  और   कि  he himself was  a  prophet and messenger of God , in  the  same vein as other  इस्लामी  prophets  .
मुहम्मद   gained  few  अनुसरणकर्ता  early on , and was met with  दुश्मनी   इससे  some Meccan  जनजातियों   ;  he and  उसके  followers were  treated  harshly  .
To escape  persecution   ,   मुहम्मद   भेजा  some  of   उसके   अनुसरणकर्ता  to  अबीसीनिया  before  he  and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina  (   तब  known  as   yathrib  ) in the year 622 .
This event ,  the  Hijra , marks the beginning of the Islamic  पंचांग   ,  which  is   भी   ज्ञात  as the Hijri  पंचांग   .
In Medina  ,   मुहम्मद   संयुक्त   the  tribes  अंतर्गत  the  संविधान  of  मदीना  .
बाद   आठ  years of  लड़   साथ  the Meccan tribes , his followers  ,  who  by  then had  grown   to  10,000 , took control of  मक्का  in the  largely  peaceful Conquest of Mecca  .
he   नष्ट   the   pagan   मूर्तियों  in  the   नगर  and  तब   भेजा  his followers out to destroy all  of   the  remaining pagan temples in Eastern  अरब   .
In 632 ,  a   few  months  बाद   returning   to  Medina from  the   विदाई   यात्राएं   ,   मुहम्मद   गिरी   बीमार  and  died   .
By the  समय   of   उसके   मौत   ,  most of the  arabian   प्रायद्वीप   था   परिवर्तित  to Islam , and  he  had united  अरब  into a single  मुस्लिम  religious polity .
the   खुलासे  (  or   ayah   ,  lit .
`` Signs [  of   परमेश्वर  ]  ''  )  —   जिससे  Muhammad  reported  receiving until  उसके   मौत  – form the  आयतें  of the  कुरान   ,  regarded by Muslims  as  the ``  शब्द  of God  ''   और  around  जिससे  the  धर्म   is   आधारित  .
Besides  the   कुरान  ,  मुहम्मद   's  life ( sira )  और  traditions  (  sunnah )  हैं  also upheld by  मुसलमान   as  the  स्त्रोत  of sharia law .
They discuss Muhammad and  अन्य  prophets of  islam   साथ   reverence   ,  adding the  phrase  peace be upon him  whenever   उनके  names  हैं   उल्लेखित  .
While conceptions  of  Muhammad in medieval  christendom  and  premodern  times were largely  ऋणात्मक  ,  appraisals   in   आधुनिक   इतिहास   have  been  दूर  less  so   .
This is a list  of  tables  of   the   सत्यापित  oldest people in the world  in   ordinal  rank , such as oldest person  or   oldest  man .
In these  टेबल  ,  a   supercentenarian  is considered 'verified '  if  his  or  her claim has  महरूम   validated  by an international body  कि   specifically  deals in longevity research , such  as   the  Gerontology  शोध  Group ( GRG ) or  गिनीज   संसार   रिकॉर्ड   .
the   longest  unambiguously documented  इंसान   जीवनकाल  is that of Jeanne Calment  of  France  (  1875–1997 )  ,  who died  at  age  122   सालो  ,  164  days .
वो   मिले  Vincent  वैन   gogh   जब   वो  was 12  or  13 .
इस  led  to  news media attention in 1985 ,  बाद  Calment turned  110  .
Subsequent  छानबीन  found documentation for Calment 's age , beyond any  उचित   सवाल  , in the records  of  her native city  ,   arles   ,  France  .
More evidence  of   calment  's lifespan has been  उत्पादित  than  लिये  any other supercentenarian ;  उसके   मामला  serves  as  an  archetype  in the  methodology  for verifying  the  ages  of  the  संसार  's oldest  लोगों  .
the  longest undisputed lifespan  लिये   पुरूष   supercentenarians  is  कि  of Jiroemon Kimura  ,   जो  currently lives in  जापानी  and is age  as  of  .
चूंकि  the death  of   115-year  old Dina  manfredini  of the United  राज्य   ,   on  17  दिसम्बर  2012  ,  Kimura , born 19  अप्रैल   1897  , is  the  oldest  जीना   व्यक्ति   in  the world  जिनकी  age can  be  documented .
He  रै   भी   महरूम  the oldest living man since the death of 114-year old Walter Breuning on  14  April  2011  .
Since  the  death  of   115-year   बूढ़ा  Koto  okubo  of  जापानी   on  12  जनवरी  2013 , the oldest living  स्त्री  has been -year-old  misao   okawa  , also from  जापानी   ,  born  on  5  कूच  1898 .
This  is   a  timeline of  the  African-American Civil  अधिकारों  Movement  .
The Civil  अधिकारों  movement  थी   a  freedom  संघर्ष  by African  अमेरिकी  in  the  1950s  और   1960s   to  gain equality .
the  goals of  the   गति  were freedom  इससे   पक्षपात  , equal opportunity in  नियुक्ति  , education and  आवास  ,  the  right  to   vote   और  equal access  to   पब्लिक  facilities .
भारी  metal (  प्रायः   referred  to as  मेटल  ) is  a  genre of rock  म्यूज़िक   कि   विकसित  in  the   लेट  1960s  और   जल्दी  1970s , largely  in   the   संयुक्त   किंगडम   और  in the  संयुक्त  States .
साथ   जड़ें  in  ब्लूज़   चट्टान  and psychedelic  चट्टान  ,  the  bands that  निर्मित  heavy  मेटल  developed  a  thick  ,  massive  ध्वनि   ,  characterized by highly  प्रवर्धित  distortion , extended guitar  solos   ,   emphatic  beats  ,   और  overall  loudness  .
Heavy metal  गीत  and performance  शैलियाँ   हैं   generally   संबद्ध  with masculinity and machismo .
The  पहला   भारी   मेटल  bands such  as  Led Zeppelin , Deep Purple and Black Sabbath  आकर्षित   विशाल   ऑडियंस  ,  हालांकि  they  यहूद  often derided by  आलोचकों  ,  a   औकात  common  throughout   the  history of  the   विधा  .
In  the  mid-1970s  यहूदा   पुजारी  helped  spur  the genre 's evolution  by   discarding  much of its blues  influence   ;  Motörhead introduced a punk  चट्टान   sensibility  and an  increasing  emphasis on speed .
Bands  in  the  नई  Wave of  अंग्रेजों   भारी  Metal such  as   आयरन   maiden   followed  in a  समान  vein .
Before the end  of   the   दशक   ,   भारी   मेटल   प्रशंसक  became  ज्ञात  as  ``   metalheads   ``  or ``  headbangers  `` .
During  the  1980s  ,  glam metal  became   a  commercial force with groups  जैसे  Mötley  crüe   और   ज़हर   .
Underground scenes  उत्पादित  an  सरणी   of   अधिक  extreme ,  आक्रामक  styles  :  thrash metal broke into the mainstream  साथ  bands such as Metallica  ,  Megadeth , Slayer ,  और  Anthrax  ,  while other styles of the most extreme  subgenres  of metal like death metal and black metal remain subcultural  phenomena  .
Since the  mid-1990s   ,   लोकप्रिय  styles such as nu metal  ,  which often incorporates elements  of  grunge  और   हिप  hop  ;  and metalcore , which  मिश्रणों  extreme metal with hardcore punk ,  have   further  expanded the definition of  the  genre  .
the   far-right  (  भी   ज्ञात  as the extreme right ) refers to the  उच्चतम  degree  of  rightism  in   right-wing   राजनीती  .
दूर  right  राजनीती  involves  support  of strong or  पूरा   सोशल  hierarchy  in  society  ,  and  supports  supremacy of certain  individuals  or groups deemed to  be   innately   श्रेष्ठ  or  अस्तबलों  who are  to   be  more valued than those deemed to be innately inferior  or  undesirable  .
the  far right 's advocacy of supremacism  is  based on  कया  its adherents perceive as  स्वाभाविक   विशेषताएँ   of   लोगों  that  can  not be changed .
This stands  as  a point of difference  साथ   the   centre-right  's  आरोपण   of   behaviours  ,  ऐसे  as  आलस्य  or decadence  ,  as the  प्राथमिक  sources of social  inequalities  .
the  centre  right—unlike   the  far right—claims that people  can  end  उनके   behavioural  inferiority through changing  उनके  habits and choices  .
The  असली  far  सही   ,   जिससे  emerged in  फ़्रांस  after the French Revolution  ,  refused to accept the French Republic and supported  a  counter-revolution  to  restore the French monarchy and  aristocracy  .
the  far right is commonly associated with  व्यक्तियों  or groups  जो   थाम   चरम   राष्ट्रवादी  , xenophobic  ,  racist , religious fundamentalist  or  reactionary views  .
The  सबसे   extreme-right   आंदोलनों   have   धड़ा   दमन  and  नरसंहार  against groups of  लोगों   on   the   आधार   of  their alleged  हीनता  .
थामस  Hobbes of  malmesbury  ( 5 April 1588 –  4  December 1679  )  ,  in   कुछ  older texts  थामस  Hobbs of  malmsbury  ,  थी  an English  पारस  ,  बेहतरीन  known  आज  for  उसके  work  on   राजनैतिक   दर्शनशास्त्र  .
उसके  1651  किताब  Leviathan established the  न्यास   लिये  most of  पश्चिमी  political philosophy  इससे   the   परिप्रेक्ष्य  of social  अनुबंध  theory  .
Hobbes  थी  a  चैंपियन   of  absolutism  लिये  the  sovereign  ,  लकिन  he also developed  कुछ  of the  fundamentals  of European  उदार   विचार  :  the   सही   of  the individual ; the natural equality of all men ;  the  artificial character of  the   राजनैतिक   अनुक्रम  ( which  led  to the  बाद  distinction  between  civil society and  the   राज्य  )  ;  the view that  सब  legitimate political power  जरूर  be ``  प्रतिनिधि  ''  और   आधारित   on  the consent of  the  people  ;   और  a  उदार  interpretation  of   विधि  which  पत्ते   लोगों   फ़्री  to do  whatever   the  law  करता  not  explicitly   forbid   .
he   थी  one of  the  founders  of   आधुनिक   राजनैतिक  philosophy  .
His  समझना  of humans as  होने  matter and motion , obeying the same  शारीरिक   कानून  as other matter and  गति  , remains  influential   ;   और  his account  of   इंसान  nature  as   self-interested  cooperation , and of  राजनैतिक   समुदायों  as being based  upon   a  `` social  अनुबंध  `` remains  एक  of the major topics of  राजनैतिक  philosophy .
in   जोड  to  राजनैतिक  philosophy , Hobbes also contributed  to  a diverse array of other  फ़ील्ड   ,   सहित   इतिहास   ,   भूगोल   ,  the  भौतिकी  of  गैसों  ,  धर्मशास्त्र   ,  ethics ,  और   सामान्य   दर्शनशास्त्र  .
Emotional  प्रज्ञा   (   ei  )  is   the  ability to identify  ,  assess , and  कंट्रोल   the  emotions  of   oneself  , of others ,  और   of   समूह  .
It can  be   विभाजित   into  ability EI  और   trait   ei   .
Ability EI is  प्रायः  measured  using   अधिकतम  performance  परीक्षण   और  has  stronger   संबंध   साथ  traditional intelligence  ,   whereas  trait EI is  प्रायः  measured using self-report questionnaires and has stronger relationships  साथ   व्यक्तित्व  .
आलोचनाओं  have  केन्द्रित   on   whether  EI  is   a  real intelligence  और   whether  it  रै   वृद्धिशील  validity over  iq  and the Big  पाँच  personality  traits   .
Heredity  is  the passing  of  traits to offspring from its  अभिभावक  or ancestor .
This is the process by which  an   औलाद  cell or organism  acquires  or  becomes   predisposed  to the characteristics of  इसके   जनक   कोशिका   or   सजीव  .
through  heredity ,  विसंगतियाँ  exhibited  by   individuals   can  accumulate  और  cause some  प्रजाति   to   evolve   .
the  study of heredity  in  biology is  पुकारा  genetics  ,   जिससे  includes  the  field of epigenetics  .
For  संयुक्त   राज्य  individual income  कर  ,  समायोजित   सकल   आय  ( AGI ) is total  सकल   आय   ऋण  specific reductions .
Taxable income is  समायोजित   सकल  income minus allowances  लिये   निजी  exemptions and itemized  deductions   .
लिये  most  व्यक्तिगत  tax  उद्देश्य   ,   agi  is more  प्रासंगिक  than gross income .
सकल  income is  बिक्री  price  of  goods or property ,  ऋण  cost of the property  बेची  , plus  अन्य   आय   .
It  शामिल  wages , interest , dividends , business income ,  rental   आय  ,  और   सब   अन्य  types of income  .
समायोजित  gross  आय  is  सकल   आय  less  deductions  from a  कारोबार  or rental activity  और  21 other  विशिष्ट  items  .
Several deductions  (   e.g  . medical expenses  और   विविध  itemized  deductions  ) are  सीमित   आधारित   on  a percentage of  agi  .
निश्चित   phase   outs  , including those of  निम्नतर   कर  rates  और  itemized  deductions  ,  हैं   आधारित  on  स्तर  of  agi  .
अनेक  states base state income tax on  agi  with certain  deductions  .
``  Lazy Eye '' is  the  third single from Silversun Pickups '  डेब्यू  album Carnavas .
the  band performed the  सोंग   on  the Late Show with David Letterman  ,  The Tonight Show with  jay   लीनो   ,  Later With Jools Holland , and  पिछला  Call with  कार्सन   daly   .
The song is a playable  track  on Rock  बैंड  2 and Guitar  नायिका   :   संसार   दौरे   .
an  alternate version of  the   सोंग   ,   साथ   a   लंबाई  of  7:27   ,   थी  played  on  XMU before the  shorter   संस्करण   थी   निभाई  on  fm   और  other XM channels  .
इस   संस्करण  was  प्रदर्शित  on  उनके   डेमो   cd  ( which featured early versions  of  four  ट्रैक्स  ) .
A  टेलीफोन  prefix  is  the first set  of  digits of  a   टेलीफोन  number ; in  the  North American  क्रमांकन  Plan  देशों   (  country code 1 ) , it  is   the   पहला   तीन   अंक  of a seven-digit  फोन   क्रमांक  .
in   अन्य  countries both the prefix and the number may have  अलग  lengths .
it  shows  जिससे   एक्सचेंज   the  remaining  संख्याएँ  refer to .
A full telephone number  is   प्रायः   बना   up  of  देश  code ( required  लिये  international calls only ) , area  कोड  ( required  लिये  calls between telephone  क्षेत्रों   )  , prefix , and subscriber number .
कुछ  places  सीमित  certain prefixes  to  fax numbers or cell phones only ; in other  स्थान  such dedicated prefixes are  नहीं   प्रयुक्त  .
As  टेलीफोन  technology  उन्नत  ,  the   precise   significance   of  the prefix  became   धुंधला   in  many places ;  485  in  लंदन   ,  UK ,  थी  once  the   gulliver   एक्सचेंज   ,  but  अभी   44207485xxxx   is  just considered one of many number  ब्लॉक   परोसा   by  the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx  is  another .
metformin   (  BP  ,  pronounced  ,  ;  originally  sold as Glucophage  )  is an oral antidiabetic  ड्रग  in  the  biguanide  क्लास  .
it  is the  first-line   ड्रग   of   चुनाव   लिये   the  treatment of type  2  diabetes , in particular , in  overweight   और   मोटे  people  और   those  with normal  गुर्दा   फलन  .
Its use  in  gestational  मधुमेह  has  महरूम  limited by safety concerns  .
It is also  प्रयुक्त  in the  उपचार  of polycystic  ovary  syndrome ,  और   रै  been  investigated   लिये  other diseases where  इंसुलिन  resistance may be  an  important  फ़ैक्टर   .
Metformin works  by   suppressing  glucose  उत्पादन   by  the liver  .
metformin  is  the  only antidiabetic drug  कि   रै   महरूम  conclusively shown  to   prevent  the cardiovascular  जटिलताओं   of   मधुमेह   .
It  helps   reduce  LDL  कोलेस्ट्रॉल  and triglyceride levels ,  और   is  not associated  साथ   वज़न   लाभ  .
,  metformin   is  one of  तभी  two oral antidiabetics  in  the  संसार   स्वास्थ्य  Organization Model List of Essential Medicines ( the other  होने  glibenclamide  )  .
जब  prescribed  appropriately   ,   metformin  causes  few   प्रतिकूल   प्रभाव   (  the  सबसे  common is  जठरांत्र   परेशान  ) and is associated with a low risk  of  hypoglycemia .
Lactic acidosis  (  a buildup  of   lactate   in  the  रक्त  )  can  be a  गंभीर  concern in overdose and when it is  विहित  to people  साथ  contraindications  ,  but  वरना   ,   वहीँ  is  no  significant risk  .
First  synthesized  and  मिला   to   reduce  blood sugar in  the  1920s  ,  metformin was  forgotten  for the next two decades as research  shifted   to  insulin  और  other  antidiabetic  drugs .
Interest in  metformin  was  rekindled  in the  लेट   1940s  after several  रिपोर्ट्स  that  it  could  reduce   रक्त   शुगर  levels in people  ,  and  in  1957  ,  French  चिकित्सक  Jean  sterne  published the first  नैदानिक  trial  of  metformin as  a   उपचार  for diabetes  .
It  थी  introduced  to  the United Kingdom  in  1958  ,  Canada in  1972  , and the United States in 1995 .
Metformin is now  believed  to be the  सबसे  widely prescribed  antidiabetic  drug in the  संसार   ;   in   the  United  राज्य  alone ,  अधिक  than 48  लाख  prescriptions  यहूद  filled in 2010 for its generic formulations .
The Mount Rushmore National Memorial is  a  sculpture  carved  into  the   ग्रेनाइट  face of  माउंट   rushmore  near  keystone  , South Dakota , in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  .
sculpted  by  danish-american  Gutzon Borglum  और   उसके  son  ,  Lincoln Borglum , Mount Rushmore  सुविधाएँ   sculptures   of   the   heads  of four United States presidents  :  George Washington  ,   थामस  Jefferson , Theodore  रूज़वेल्ट  and  अब्राहम  Lincoln .
the  entire  मेमोरियल   कवर   और  is above sea  स्तर  .
the  tallest  पहाड़  in the region  is   harney   शिखर   (   )  .
दक्षिण  Dakota historian  दोने  Robinson is  credited   साथ  conceiving the  विचार   of  carving  the  likenesses  of   प्रसिद्ध   लोगों  into  the   ब्लैक   पहाड़ियाँ  region of South Dakota in  अनुक्रम  to promote tourism in the region  .
रॉबिन्सन   's  initial idea was  to  sculpt the  needles   ;   however  , Gutzon Borglum  अस्वीकृत  the Needles site because of the poor  विशेषता   of  the granite and strong opposition from environmentalists and  देशी  American groups  .
They settled on the  माउंट   rushmore  location  ,  which also has the advantage  of  facing southeast for maximum sun exposure .
Robinson wanted it to feature  पश्चिमी   नायक   जैसे  Lewis and Clark , Red  बादल  and  भैंस   विधेयक   कोड़ी  but  borglum   decided   the   मूर्तिकला  should have a  अधिक  national  फ़ोकस  , and  chose   the  four presidents whose  likenesses  would  be  carved  into   the  mountain  .
बाद   securing  federal  funding   ,  construction on the memorial began  in   1927   ,   और  the  राष्ट्रपतियों   '  faces were completed  between  1934 and 1939 .
Upon  gutzon  Borglum  's  death  in  March 1941 , his son  lincoln   borglum  took  over  construction .
Although  the   आरंभिक   अवधारणा  called for  प्रत्येक   अध्यक्ष  to be depicted  इससे  head  to  waist  ,  lack  of   funding  forced  निर्माण  to  समाप्त   in   लेट   अक्तूबर  1941 .
the  U.S. National Park Service took  कंट्रोल   of  the  मेमोरियल   in   1933  , while it  थी  still  अंतर्गत  construction , and has managed  the  memorial to the  उपस्थित  day .
it   attracts   nearly   तीन  million  लोगों   annually  .
charvet   पोशाक   कमीज़   इससे  the 1930s , Norsk  folkemuseum  ,  ओस्लो  .
A  कमीज़  , dress shirt ,  button-front  ,  button-front  shirt , or button-up  कमीज़  is a  परिधान  with a  कॉलर   ,   a  full-length opening at the front  इससे  the collar to the  हेम  , and sleeves  साथ  cuffs .
शर्ट  are predominantly used by men  ,  since women  प्रायः   पहनें   blouses  .
The  सामने  opening is fastened  using   बटन   or  studs  ,  and the cuffs close  साथ   बटन   or   कफ   कड़ी  .
Shirts  हैं  normally  बना  from  woven   cloth   ,   और   हैं   प्रायः  accompanied by a  जैकेट  and tie , for example with a suit or formalwear , but shirts  हैं   भी   worn  more  casually   .
In  अंग्रेजों   अंग्रेज़ी   ,   पोशाक   कमीज़  means specifically the more  औपचारिक   संध्या  garment  worn  with  black-  or  white-   टाई  , also discussed below .
Some of these  औपचारिक   शर्ट  have stiff  fronts  and detachable collars attached with  कॉलर   studs  .
the  term  ``   button-down   ''  (  जिससे  refers a  प्रकार  of  कमीज़   जिससे  has a  कॉलर  fastened down by buttons  )  is  sometimes  used  in   गलती  to apply  to  all shirts ( with  or  without  buttoned  down collars ) , being used as  a  synonym for  ``   button-up  '' or  ``  button-front ''  .
Administrative  पेशेवर   दिन   (   भी  known  as  Secretaries Day or  एडमिन   दिन   )  is an  unofficial   धर्मनिरपेक्ष  holiday  observed  in several  देशों   to   recognize   the  work  of  secretaries  ,  administrative assistants , receptionists , and  अन्य  administrative support professionals  .
In  उत्तर  America , it is celebrated  on  the  बुधवार   of  the last full week  of   अप्रैल   (   अप्रैल  24 in 2013  )   .
In  फ़्रांस  it is  मनाये  on  the  third  गुरुवार   in  April (  अप्रैल   18  in 2013 ) .
in  Australia it is  मनाये  on  the   पहला  Friday in May
धमाकेदार   can  be:
Abrasive blasting
Blast furnace
चट्टान   धमाकेदार
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15  जून  1594  –  19 November  1665  ) was the leading  चित्रकार   of   the   शास्त्रीय   फ्रेंच  Baroque style  ,  although he spent most of his working life in  रोम  .
His  कार्य   is  characterized  by  clarity  ,  logic ,  और  order ,  और  favors line over color  .
Until  the  20th  सदी  he remained a major inspiration  लिये  such classically oriented  कलाकारों  as Jacques-Louis  दाउद   ,  Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres and Paul Cézanne  .
He  worked  in Rome  लिये  a  वृत्त  of leading collectors  वहीँ  and elsewhere  ,   मगर  for  a  short period when  कार्डिनल  Richelieu ordered him  वापस  to France to  serve   as   पहला  Painter to the King  .
Most of  उसके  works  हैं   इतिहास  paintings of  धार्मिक  or  पौराणिक  subjects  कि   बहुत  often  have  a large landscape element  .
Jackie  कैथ  Whitley (  जुलाई   1   ,  1954Stambler , Irwin  ,   और   grelun  Landon  (  2000  )  . -  देश  Music :  the   ज्ञानकोष  .  -   नई  York :  st.  Martin 's  दबायें  . -  p.533  .  -  ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin ,  रिचर्ड   (   2003   )   .  - Country  म्यूज़िक  :  a  Biographical Dictionary .  -  New York  :   routledge   -  p.427 . -  isbn  978-0-415-93802-0.—Larkin  ,  Colin ( 1995  )   .  -  the  Guinness Encyclopedia  of  Popular Music .  -   नई   यॉर्क   :  Stockton  दबायें  - P.4462  .  -  isbn   978-0-85112-662-3.—stanton  , Scott ( 2003 ) . - The Tombstone Tourist  :  Musicians .  -  New York : Pocket Books .  -  p.395 .  -  ISBN  978-0-7434-6330-0.—hicks   ,  Jack  .  -  ``  Singer  कैथ  Whitley 's Memory Alive Through  गीतों  , Love in Home Town '' .  -   the  Kentucky Post  .   -   सितंबर   25   ,  1991.—  ''  Country  म्यूज़िक   स्टार  Keith Whitley Dead  at  33 '' .  -   lexington  Herald-Leader .  -  May 10  ,  1989.——Hurst , Jack  .  -  ``   whitley   's   पिछला   दिनों  ''  .   -   शिकागो   ट्रिब्यून  . -  may   14  ,  1989.—  ''  दारू   मारता   देश  Singer  कैथ   whitley  '' . -  संयुक्त  Press International . - ( c/o The  सैन   फ्रांसिस्को  Chronicle )  .  -  may  10 , 1989  .   —   may  9  ,   1989   )  , known  professionally  as Keith  whitley  , was  an  American country music singer  .
Whitley  's  brief career  in  mainstream country  म्यूज़िक  lasted from 1984 until his  मौत  in  1989  ,  लकिन   he  continues  to  influence an entire generation of  गायकों   और   songwriters  .
he   charted  19 singles  on  the Billboard  देश  charts  ,   सहित  five consecutive Number Ones :  ``  Do n't Close  अपना   आँखें   ``  , ``  जब   तुम   कह   nothing  at  सब  `` ,  ``   i  'm  no  Stranger to the Rain  ``  , `` I  अचरज  Do  तुम  Think of  me   ``  and `` It Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two  मरणोपरांत   )  .
Statute  of  Grand Duchy of Lithuania , written  in  Polish
A  statute  is  a   औपचारिक  written enactment of a legislative authority  कि  governs  a  state , city ,  or  county  .
typically  , statutes command or  prohibit  something , or  घोषित   नीति  .
the   शब्द  is often used  to  distinguish  विधि  made by  विधान  bodies from  मामला   विधि   ,   decided  by  न्यायालयों  ,  और   regulations   जारी   by   सरकारी  agencies .
Statutes are  sometimes   referred   to   as   विधान   or  ``  ब्लैक   अक्षर  law .  ''
as  a source of  विधि   ,  statutes  हैं  considered primary  प्राधिकार  ( as opposed to  द्वितीयक  authority ) .
ideally  all statutes must be  in   सामंजस्य  with the  आधारभूत  law  of  the land  (  constitutional  )   .
This  शब्द   is   प्रयुक्त   in   contradistinction  to the common  विधि  .
statutes   acquire  their  फ़ोर्स   इससे   the  time of  उनके  passage ,  however  unless  वरना  provided .
statutes   हैं  of several  kinds   ;  namely , Public or private  .
Declaratory or  remedial   .
Temporary or  perpetual  .
A  अस्थाई   statute   is   एक   जिससे  is limited in  इसके  duration  at  the  समय  of its enactment .
it  continues in force  जबतक  the  समय   of   इसके  limitation  रै   समाप्त  ,  जबतक  sooner repealed .
A  perpetual  statute  is  one  लिये   the  continuance of which there is no  सीमित   समय  , although it may not be  expressly  declared  to   be  so .
If ,  however   ,  a  statute  which did not itself contain any  limitation   is   to   be   governed  by another  जिससे  is temporary only ,  the  former will  भी   be   अस्थाई   और  dependent upon the existence of  the   latter   .
Before a statute becomes  विधि  in some countries ,  it  must be  सहमत  upon  by  the  उच्चतम   कार्यपालिका   in  the  सरकारी   ,  and finally published  as  part of a code  .
In  अनेक   देशों  , statutes  हैं  organized in topical  इंतजाम  (  or  `` codified  ''  ) within  publications  called  कोड   ,  such as the  संयुक्त  States Code  .
in  many nations  statutory   विधि   is  distinguished from and  अधीनस्थ  to  संवैधानिक  law  .
The  बाह्य   iliac  arteries are two major arteries which bifurcate off the  आम  iliac arteries anterior to  the  sacroiliac  संयुक्त  of the pelvis .
वे   proceed   अग्रवर्ती  and inferior along the medial  किनारा  of  the  psoas  प्रमुख   मांसपेशियां  .
वे   निकास   the  pelvic  girdle   posterior  and inferior  to  the inguinal ligament  परिचय  one  तीसरा   laterally  from the insertion  पाइंट  of the inguinal ligament on the pubic tubercle at  जिससे  point they are referred  to   as   the   नैया  arteries .
the   बाह्य  iliac  धमनी   is   प्रायः  the artery used to attach the renal artery  to   the  recipient  of  a  गुर्दा  transplant  .
Steam  is  a  डिजिटल   वितरण  ,  डिजिटल  rights management ,  एकाधिक  and communications platform developed by  वाल्व  Corporation  .
It is used to distribute games and related  मीडिया  online  ,   इससे   छोटी  independent developers  to  larger  तन्त्र  houses  ;   in   अक्तूबर   2012  ,  वाल्व   विस्तारित  the service  to   शामिल   non-gaming  software  .
Steam provides the user  साथ  installation and  स्वचालित  management of software  आरपार   अनेक  computers , community  सुविधाएँ   ऐसे  as friends lists and  समूह   ,  cloud saving , and in-game voice and  गपशप   कार्यक्षमता  .
The  तन्त्र  provides a  freely   उपलब्धियाँ  application programming  इंटरफ़ेस   ,  Steamworks , that developers  can   लो   लाभ  of to integrate many of  भाप  's functions  भीतर  their  तन्त्र  products , including  नक़ल   सुरक्षा   ,   नेटवर्किंग  and matchmaking , in-game achievements  और  micro-transactions , and support  लिये   user-created   सामग्री  through  भाप   कार्यशाला   .
हालांकि  initially developed  लिये  use on  microsoft   खिड़कियाँ  , the  क्लाएंट   रै  expanded  to   शामिल   os  X  और  Linux versions ,  और  clients with  सीमित   कार्यक्षमता  on  the  PlayStation  3   कंसोल  and  लिये  both iOS  और  Android mobile  डिवाइस   .
in   जोड   to   होने   a  central hub for gaming  तन्त्र  , Valve has  निर्मित   a   संस्करण   of   भाप  with altered functionality  to  be  प्रयुक्त   in  schools  लिये  educational software , including a modified version  of  Portal  2   लिये  teaching science and critical  सोच  lessons  .
,  there  हैं  nearly 2000 games available  through  Steam , and 54 million active user accounts  .
as   of   जनवरी   2013  ,  भाप   रै  seen over 6.6  लाख  concurrent  खिलाड़ी   .
Steam has an estimated  50–70  % share of the digital distribution  मार्केट  for video  खेल   .
the   भाप   लोगो   is  a stylised left-side fly-crank and  लाठी   इससे  the Walschaerts valve gear  of   a  steam locomotive  .
Jerry  लुईस  (  born  March  16  , 1926 )  is   an  American comedian  ,  actor  ,  singer  ,   फिल्मी   निर्माता   ,   screenwriter   और   फिल्मी  director .
He is known  लिये  his slapstick humor  in  film , television ,  स्टेज   और  radio .
He  थी  originally paired up with Dean  मार्टिन  in 1946 , forming the  famed  comedy team  of  Martin and Lewis  .
In  जोड  to the  duo   's  popular nightclub  कार्य  ,  वे  starred in  a   कामयाब  series  of  comedy  films  for  सर्वोपरि  Pictures  .
लुईस   is  also known  लिये  his charity  fund-raising   telethons  and  स्थिति  as national chairman  लिये   the  Muscular Dystrophy Association (  mda   )   .
Lewis  रै  won several awards  लिये  lifetime  उपलब्धियाँ  from  the   अमरीकी  Comedy Awards , Los Angeles  फिल्मी  Critics Association , and  वेनिस  Film Festival , and  he  has  दो  stars  on   the  Hollywood  चलना   of   कीर्ति  .
In 2005 , he  प्राप्त  the  राज्यपालों  Award of  the  Academy  of  Television  कला   &  Sciences  फलक  of Governors  ,  which is  the   उच्चतम   एमी  Award presented .
On February 22  ,   2009   ,  the Academy  of   गति  Picture Arts  और   sciences  awarded  लुईस  the  जां   hersholt  Humanitarian Award  .
The Rhine (  ;  ; ) is  a  European  नदी  that runs  इससे   the  Swiss  कैण्टन  of Grisons in the  southeastern  Swiss Alps  through   जर्मनी   और  eventually flows  into   the  North Sea  coast  in the Netherlands and is  the  twelfth longest  नदी   in   यूरोपीय  , at about , with  an  average  निर्वहन  of more  than  .
the   राइन   और  the  डेन्यूब   formed   सबसे  of the northern inland frontier of  the  Roman Empire  और   ,  since  those   दिनों  , the Rhine  रै  been  a   vital  and  navigable  waterway carrying trade and goods  गहन  inland .
It  रै  also served as  a   रक्षात्मक  feature and has been the  आधार  for  क्षेत्रीय   और  international  सीमायें   .
The  अनेक  castles  और   प्रागैतिहासिक   fortifications   साथ   the  Rhine  गवाही  to its importance as a waterway .
River traffic could be  रोका  at  ये  locations , usually for the purpose  of  collecting tolls  ,   by  the state that controlled  कि  portion of the river .
श्री   (   सिंहली  )
श्री  ( Devanagari :  श्री  ,  iast  ; Śrī ) ,  भी   transliterated  as Sree or Shri  or  Shree is a word of Sanskrit origin  ,  used  in   the  Indian  उपमहाद्वीप   as  polite form  of  address equivalent to the  अंग्रेज़ी  `` Mr. '' in written  और  spoken language , or  as   a  title  of   veneration   लिये   deities   (  usually translated as `` Holy  ''  ) .
डिज़ाइन  of complex  structures  like the International Space  स्टेशन  needs in-depth  समझना  of  संरचनात्मक  Analysis  .
Civil engineering  is  a professional  अभियान्त्रिकी  discipline that  सौदे  with the  डिज़ाइन   ,  construction , and  मेंटेनेंस  of the  शारीरिक   और  naturally  निर्मित   पर्यावरण  , including works like roads ,  पुलों  ,  नहरों  , dams ,  और  buildings .
सिविल  engineering is the oldest  अभियान्त्रिकी  discipline  बाद  military  अभियान्त्रिकी   ,   और   it   थी   पारिभाषित   to  distinguish non-military  अभियान्त्रिकी  from  सैन्य   अभियान्त्रिकी   .
it   is  traditionally  टूटा   into  several  sub-disciplines  including environmental  अभियान्त्रिकी  ,  भूतकनीकी  engineering , geophysics , geodesy  ,   कंट्रोल  engineering  ,   संरचनात्मक   अभियान्त्रिकी  , biomechanics ,  nanotechnology   ,   परिवहन   अभियान्त्रिकी  , earth science , atmospheric sciences , forensic  अभियान्त्रिकी  , municipal  or  urban  अभियान्त्रिकी  ,  जल   संसाधन   अभियान्त्रिकी  ,  सामग्री  engineering ,  तटीय  engineering ,  सर्वेक्षण  , and construction engineering .
Civil  अभियान्त्रिकी  takes place on all  स्तर  : in  the  public  सेक्टर  from municipal  through   to   नेशनल   सरकारें   ,  and in the private sector from individual homeowners  through  to international  कंपनियाँ  .
कैथरीन   dunham  in Tropical Revue
Katherine  dunham   in  Studio
Katherine  dunham  in Tropical  पुनर्विलोकन  Tropical Review , Martin Beck  थिएटर
कैथरीन  Dunham wearing  नृत्य  costume
Katherine Dunham in  cumbia
Katherine Dunham (  जून   22   ,   1909   –  May 21 ,  2006  ) was an  अमरीकी   नर्तकी  , choreographer  ,   लेखक  ,  educator   ,  and social  activist   .
dunham   था   एक   of  the  सबसे   कामयाब   नृत्य  careers in American and  यूरोपीय  theater of the 20th century ,  और   निर्देशित  her own dance company for  अनेक  years .
She  रै  been  पुकारा   the   ``  matriarch and queen  माँ   of  black dance '' .
During her heyday in the  1940s   और  1950s  ,  Dunham was renowned  throughout   यूरोपीय   और   लैटिन   अमेरिका  and  थी  widely popular in  the   संयुक्त  States , where the Washington Post called her ``  नर्तकी  Katherine  the  Great  ''  .
लिये  almost  तीस  years she maintained the Katherine  dunham  Dance Company  ,   the   तभी  self-supported American  ब्लैक  dance  troupe  at  कि  time  ,  and over her long career  वो  choreographed more than ninety individual  dances  .
dunham   थी  an innovator in African-American  आधुनिक  dance as  खूब   as  a  नेता   in   the  field  of  dance anthropology ,  or   ethnochoreology   .
Sphagnum  is  a genus of  between   1510  and  3500  species of  mosses  , commonly called  peat  moss due  to  its prevalence in  गीला  habitats  जहाँ   it   contributes  to  the   गठन  of  peat   bogs  and mires .
sphagnum   accumulations   can   स्टोर  water , since both  जीना   और   मुर्दे   पौधे  can  थाम  large  quantities  of water  अंदर  their  कोशिकाएं  ;  पौधे  may hold from 16-26  टाइम्स   as   much  water as their  शुष्क  weight  depending  on  the  species  .
The empty  कोशिकाएं   सहायता   retain  water in  drier  conditions .
Hence  ,  as sphagnum  मॉस  grows , it  can  slowly spread into drier conditions ,  forming  larger peatlands ,  दोनो  raised bogs  और   कंबल  bogs .
ये   peat  accumulations then provide  आवास  for  a  wide array of peatland  पौधे  ,  सहित  sedges and ericaceous shrubs ,  as   खूब  as  orchids  and carnivorous plants  .
sphagnum  and the peat  formed  from  it   do   नहीं   क्षय  readily because of the phenolic  यौगिकों  embedded in  the   मॉस   's   कोशिका  walls .
In addition , bogs  ,  like all wetlands  ,  develop anaerobic soil  शर्तें   ,   जिससे   produces  slower  अवायवीय   क्षय  rather than aerobic  सूक्ष्मजैविक  action .
Peat moss can also acidify its surroundings by taking  up  cations , such  as   कैल्सियम   और  magnesium  ,   और  releasing hydrogen  ions  .
Under the  सही   शर्तें   ,   peat  can  accumulate   to  a depth  of   अनेक  meters .
अलग  species  of   sphagnum   have   अलग   सहिष्णुता   हद   लिये  flooding  और   ph  ,  so   कोई   एक  peatland  may  have a number  of  different  sphagnum  species .
Individual peat  मॉस  plants  consist  of a  प्रमुख  stem ,  साथ   tightly  arranged clusters  of   शाखा   fascicles  usually  consisting  of  दो  or  तीन  spreading  शाखाओं  and two  to  four  फांसी  branches .
the  top of the  संयंत्र  ,  or  capitulum  ,   रै  compact clusters  of  young branches .
Along the stem are scattered leaves of various  आकार  , named  स्टेम  leaves  ;  the shape varies according  to  species  .
the  leaves  consist   of   दो   kinds   of  cells  ;  small  ,   ग्रीन   ,   जीना   कोशिकाएं  (  chlorophyllose   कोशिकाएं  ) , and large ,  साफ  ,  संरचनात्मक   ,  dead cells ( hyaline cells )  .
The latter have  the   विशाल  water-holding capacity .
The earliest version  of  the Network  कार्ड  , issued manually rather  than  through an APTIS machine .
the   पहला  APTIS version  of  the Network Card .
This  थी   प्रयुक्त   इससे  the start  of  the APTIS era  in  1986/1987 until well  into  the  1990s   ,   as  stocks had  to  be  प्रयुक्त  up despite  the  introduction  of  the  new-look  orange-banded  संस्करण  in  1991  .
the  introduction of  the  weekday minimum fare  कंडीशन   in  2002 resulted in a minor change :  the  red  ``  R ''  shows  that this  is   the  ``  संशोधित   ''  version  of  the railcard .
This version  is  still  in  use  as   of  2007 .
The Network Railcard is  a   छूट  card introduced in  1986  by  अंग्रेजों  Rail , upon the  सृष्टि  of their  संजाल  SouthEast area around London  ,  England  .
the   कार्ड   is  intended  to   प्रोत्साहित   अवकाश  travel  by  rail  by  offering discounts  लिये  adults and accompanying  children   on   a  wide  दायरा  of off-peak  किराए   .
the   दायरा   of  discounts available , and the price of  the  card  ,   have   varied   चूंकि   कि  time , but the  कार्ड   रै  always  महरूम  valid  लिये  a year  's   असीमित   उपयोग   .
It can  be   खरीदा  by any  व्यक्ति  aged 16 or over from any staffed  नेशनल   रेल  station  or   रेल  Appointed Travel  एजेंट   ,   by  completing  an  application form - no photographic identification or other documentation is needed to buy or use the card .
it  is one of a  क्रमांक  of concessionary  किराया   योजनाएं  available on the  अंग्रेजों   रेल  system .
The United Nations ( UN  ;   फ्रेंच  : Organisation des Nations Unies  ,  ONU ) is  the   संसार  's largest ,  foremost   ,  and most  prominent  international organization .
The  stated  aims  of   the  United  राष्ट्र  include  promoting   और  facilitating cooperation in  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  law , international security  ,  economic development , social  प्रगति  ,  इंसान   अधिकारों   ,  civil rights  ,   सिविल  liberties , political freedoms ,  लोकतंत्र   ,   और  the achievement of lasting world  सलाम  .
The UN was  संस्थापित   in  1945 after World War II to replace  the   लीग  of  राष्ट्र  ,  to   रोकें  wars between  देशों  ,  और   to  provide  a  platform for dialogue .
It contains multiple subsidiary organizations  to  carry out  इसके   मिशन  .
at   इसके   founding  , the  un   था  51 member states ; as of  2011   ,  there are  193  .
From  इसके   कार्यालयों  around the world , the UN  और   इसके   specialized  agencies decide on substantive and administrative  मुद्दे  in  नियमित  meetings  आयोजित   throughout  the year .
the   संगठन  has six principal organs :  the   सामान्य   सभा  ( the  प्रमुख  deliberative assembly  )   ;   the  Security Council (  लिये  deciding  निश्चित  resolutions for  सलाम   और  security )  ;  the  आर्थिक  and Social  परिषद  ( for assisting in  promoting  international  आर्थिक  and  सोशल   सहयोग  and development ) ;  the  Secretariat ( for providing  अध्ययन  , information  ,   और   सुविधाएं   needed   by  the UN  )  ;  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   अदालत   of   इंसाफ   (  the primary  न्यायिक   अंग   )  ; and the  संयुक्त   राष्ट्र  Trusteeship  परिषद  (  जिससे  is  फिलहाल  inactive ) .
Other  prominent   un  System agencies include the World  स्वास्थ्य   संगठन  (  जो   )  , the World Food Programme  (   wfp   )   और  United Nations Children 's  निधि  (  यूनिसेफ   )   .
The  un  's  सबसे  prominent  स्थिति  is  कि  of the  दफ्तर  of  secretary-general  which  रै  been held  by   बैन   ki-moon  of  दक्षिण  Korea since  2007   .
the  United  राष्ट्र  Headquarters resides in international territory  in  New  यॉर्क   नगर  ,  साथ  further  प्रमुख  offices at  जेनेवा   ,  Nairobi  ,  and Vienna .
the   संगठन  is  financed   इससे  assessed and voluntary contributions  इससे   इसके  member  राज्य   ,   और  has six official languages  :  Arabic , Chinese ,  अंग्रेज़ी  , French , Russian  ,  and  स्पेनी   .
South  बीच  ,  भी   nicknamed  SoBe  ,   is   a  neighborhood in  the   नगर  of  मियामी  Beach ,  फ्लोरिडा  , United  राज्य  , located due  ईस्ट  of Miami city proper between  biscayne  Bay  और   the   अटलांटिक   समंदर   .
the   क्षेत्रफल   encompasses  all of the barrier  आइलैंड्स  of  मियामी  Beach south of Indian Creek .
इस  area  थी   the  first section  of   मियामी  Beach to  be  developed  ,  starting in the  1910s  ,  धन्यवाद  to  the   विकास  efforts of  कार्ल   G.  Fisher  ,  the Lummus Brothers  ,  and  जॉन  S.  कॉलिन्स  , the latter whose  निर्माण   of  the Collins Bridge provided the  पहला  vital  जमीन  link between mainland Miami  और  the beaches .
The  क्षेत्रफल  has  गए  through numerous artificial and  प्राकृतिक   परिवर्तन  over  the  years  ,   सहित  a  booming  regional  अर्थव्यवस्था  , increased  पर्यटन   ,  and  the  1926  hurricane  ,  जिससे  destroyed much  of   the  area .
as   of  2010  ,   परिचय   39,186   निवासियों  live  in  South  बीच   .
the  United States  अध्यक्षीय  election  of  1960  थी  the 44th quadrennial presidential  चुनाव  ,  आयोजित  on  मंगलवार   ,   नवम्बर  8 ,  1960  .
The Republican  पार्टी   मनोनीत   लाज़िम  Vice-President Richard Nixon , while the Democratic  पार्टी   मनोनीत   जॉन   F.   कैनेडी  ,  सीनेटर  from  मैसाचुसेट्स  .
The incumbent President  ,  Republican Dwight  D.  Eisenhower  ,   थी  not eligible for  re-election  after serving the maximum two terms  अनुमत  by  the  Twenty-second Amendment  .
Kennedy was  निर्वाचित  with  a  lead of 112,827 votes ,  or   0.17  % of the  लोकप्रिय   vote  ,  giving   उसे   a  victory of  303   to   219   in  the  चुनावी  College , the closest  चूंकि   1916   .
इस   थी  the  पहला   चुनाव  in which all fifty  of  the  वर्तमान  United States participated .
a   क्रमांक   of  factors explain  क्यों  the election was so close .
कैनेडी  gained  चूंकि  there was an  आर्थिक   मंदी   जिससे   ठेस  the incumbent Republican ,  और  he had the advantage  of  17 million  अधिक  registered Democrats than  republicans  .
furthermore   ,  the new votes that Kennedy  gained  among Catholics  लगभग   neutralized  the  नई   मत   निक्सन  gained among  protestants  .
Kennedy 's campaigning skills  decisively   outmatched   निक्सन  's .
In  the   समाप्त  , Nixon  's  emphasis on his experience carried little weight  ,   और  he  wasted   उर्जा  by  campaigning  in all 50 states instead of concentrating on  the  swing states  .
Kennedy used his  विशाल   ,  well-funded campaign organization  to  win  the  nomination  ,   सुरक्षित   समर्थन  , and  ,  with  the  aid of  the   पिछला   of   the   big-city  bosses ,  to  get  आउट   the  vote in  the  big  शहरों  .
He relied on  कार्यशील  mate Lyndon B.  जॉनसन   to  hold the South and  प्रयुक्त   टेलीविज़न  effectively .
इस   चुनाव  is  notable  as being  the   पहला   समय  in U.S. history  कि  two  बैठे  U.S  .   सीनेटरों  (  कैनेडी  and  जॉनसन  )  यहूद  elected as president  और  vice-president ,  a   घटना  that  रै  been  दोहराया  once ,  by   बराक  Obama and  जो  Biden  in  2008  (   in  both cases  ,  the  अध्यक्ष  was  the   younger  ,  अधिक  junior senator  )  .
a   पोस्टर  for a c. 1884  अमरीकी  production  of   मैकबेथ   ,  starring Thomas W.  keene  .
Depicted  ,   काउंटर  clockwise from  top-left  , are  :  Macbeth  और   banquo  meet the  witches  ; just  बाद   the   हत्या  of Duncan  ;  Banquo 's ghost ; Macbeth duels  macduff  ; and  मैकबेथ  .
Macbeth is a play written  by  William  शेक्सपियर   .
it  is  माना  one  of   उसके   darkest   और   सबसे   शक्तिशाली  tragedies .
Set in Scotland  ,  the play dramatizes the  corroding  psychological  और   राजनैतिक  effects produced when  इसके  protagonist , the Scottish lord Macbeth , chooses  दुष्ट  as the  रास्ता  to  fulfill   उसके   महत्वाकांक्षा  for  शक्ति  .
He  commits   regicide   to   become   किंग  and  तब   furthers  his moral descent  साथ  a  शासनकाल   of   murderous  terror to stay in  शक्ति   ,  eventually plunging the  देश   into   सिविल  war .
in  the  समाप्त   ,  he  loses   सबकुछ  that  देता  meaning  और  purpose to  उसके  life before losing  उसके   जीवन  itself .
The  खेल  is believed  to   have  been written between 1603  और   1607  ,  और  is most  commonly  dated 1606  .
the  earliest account of  a  performance of what  थी   संभवतः  Shakespeare  's   खेल   is   अप्रैल   1611  , when Simon Forman recorded seeing such a  खेल  at the  ग्लोब  Theatre .
It was  पहला  published in the  folio  of 1623 , possibly from a  संकेत  book  .
It was most  संभावित   लिखा  during the reign  of  James I , who had  महरूम  James VI  of  Scotland before he succeeded to  the   अंग्रेज़ी  throne in 1603 .
जेम्स   थी   a   संरक्षक  of Shakespeare’s  एक्टिंग  company  ,  and of  सब   the   plays  Shakespeare  लिखा  during James’s reign ,  मैकबेथ  most clearly reflects the playwright’s  संबंध  with the sovereign  .
मैकबेथ   is   shakespeare’s   shortest  tragedy ,  और   tells  the story  of  a brave Scottish  सामान्य  named Macbeth  जो   receives   a   prophecy  from a trio of witches that one day he will become  किंग  of  स्कॉटलैंड  .
खपत   by  ambition  और   spurred  to action  by  his  बीवी  , Macbeth murders King Duncan and takes  the  throne  लिये   खुद   .
उसके   शासनकाल  is racked with guilt and  paranoia  , and he soon becomes  a   tyrannical  ruler  as   he  is  मजबूर  to commit more and more murders  to  protect himself from  enmity  and  suspicion   .
the  bloodbath swiftly takes Macbeth  और   महिला  Macbeth into realms of arrogance  ,  madness , and death  .
Shakespeare  's  source for  the   त्रासदी  is the account of King Macbeth  of  Scotland  ,  Macduff ,  और  Duncan  in   holinshed   's   क्रॉनिकल्स  ( 1587  )  , a history  of   इंग्लैण्ड  , Scotland and Ireland  परिचित   to  Shakespeare  और   उसके  contemporaries , although  the  events  in  the play differ  extensively  from the history of the  रियल  Macbeth .
In the backstage  संसार  of  थिएटर   ,   कुछ   मानना   कि   the   खेल  is cursed , and  होगा  not mention its title aloud  ,  referring to  it   बजाय   as  ``  the   स्कॉटिश   खेल  ``  .
Over  the   कोर्स   of   अनेक  centuries  ,   the   खेल  has attracted  कुछ  of  the  most  प्रसिद्ध   अभिनेताओं   to  the roles of  मैकबेथ   और  Lady Macbeth  .
It  रै  been adapted to  फिल्मी  , television , opera , novels  ,  comic  किताबे  ,  और   अन्य  media .
the  Milton Hershey  स्कूल  is  a  private  परोपकारी   (  pre-K through  12   )   बोर्डिंग  school in Hershey ,  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
originally   नामित   the  Hershey Industrial  स्कूल  , the institution was founded  और  funded by chocolate  उद्योगपति  Milton  snavely  Hershey and his wife ,  कैथरीन  Sweeney Hershey .
The school was  originally  established  लिये  impoverished  ,  healthy , Caucasian , male  अनाथ  ,  जबकि  today  it   serves  students of various backgrounds  .
the  Milton  hershey  School Trust , which funds the  स्कूल  ,  owns   controlling  interest in The Hershey Company and  owns  the  hershey  Entertainment  और  Resorts Company  (  HERCO ) which  oversees  many of the  क्षेत्रफल   होटल  along  साथ  a  थीम   पार्क  called Hersheypark .
साथ  over  छह   अरब  dollars in  एसेट  ,  the   मिल्टन  Hershey School is  एक   of   the  wealthiest  स्कूलों  in the world  .
the   स्कूल  is  overseen   by  a Board of  प्रबंधक  .
The school  फिलहाल   serves  1,818  विद्यार्थी  ,  और  plans to grow to  2,100  students by  2013  .
A member of CORE : Coalition for  आवासीय   शिक्षा   ,  it  is   the  largest residential  शिक्षा   कार्यक्रम  in the  us  .
epub  may  refer   to:
EPUB , a  फ़्री  and  खोलें  e-book standard
इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  article  ,  articles in scholarly journals  or  magazines  कि  can be accessed via electronic  हस्तांतरण
The Controlled  substances  Act ( CSA )  थी   enacted  into law by  the  Congress of the United States  as   शीर्षक   ii   of  the  व्यापक  Drug  गाली  Prevention  और  Control Act  of   1970   .
the   सीएसए  is the federal U.S. drug policy  अंतर्गत  which the  manufacture  , importation  ,   कब्ज़ा  , use and distribution of certain  substances  is regulated .
The Act also served  as   the   नेशनल   implementing  legislation for the Single Convention on  narcotic   दवाएँ   .
The  विधान  created  पाँच  Schedules (  classifications   )   ,   साथ   varying  qualifications  लिये  a substance to  be   शामिल  in  प्रत्येक  .
Two federal agencies , the  ड्रग  Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug  प्रशासन  , determine which substances are  added   to  or removed from the various  schedules  , though  the  statute passed  by  Congress  निर्मित  the  आरंभिक   लिस्टिंग   ,  and Congress has  sometimes  scheduled other substances  through   विधान   ऐसे  as the  hillory   J.   farias   और   सामन्था   reid  Date-Rape Prevention Act  of   2000  , which  लगाई   गामा  hydroxybutyrate in Schedule  i   .  Classification  निर्णय  are  जरूरी  to be made on criteria including  संभावित   लिये  abuse  (   an  undefined term )  ,   फिलहाल   स्वीकृत  medical use in treatment  in  the United  राज्य  ,  और   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   treaties  .
Second-language  अधिग्रहण   or   second-language   सीखना   is   the  process  by   जिससे   लोगों   सीख  a  दूसरी   भाषा  .
second-language   अधिग्रहण  ( often abbreviated to  sla  ) also refers to  the  scientific discipline  devoted   to  studying  कि  process  .
दूसरी  language refers to any language  सीखे   in  addition  to  a person  's  first language  ;  although  the   अवधारणा   is   नामित  second-language acquisition ,  it  can also  चरितार्थ  the learning of third ,  चौथी  ,  or  subsequent languages .
Second-language acquisition refers  to   कया   learners  do ;  it  does not refer to  practices   in  language  शिक्षण   .
The academic discipline of  second-language  acquisition is  a  subdiscipline of applied linguistics  .
It is  broad-based  and relatively  नई  .
As  खूब  as  the  various branches of linguistics , second-language acquisition is also  closely   सम्बन्धित  to  मनोविज्ञान  ,  संज्ञानात्मक   मनोविज्ञान  , and  शिक्षा   .
to   पृथक  the academic  अनुशासन  from the learning process itself , the terms second-language acquisition research , second-language studies  ,   और  second-language acquisition studies  हैं  also  प्रयुक्त  .
SLA research began as an  interdisciplinary   फ़ील्ड  , and because of  इस   it   is   मुश्किल   to  identify  a   precise  starting  तिथि  .
however  , it  करता   appear   to  have developed a great deal  चूंकि  the mid-1960s .
The term acquisition was originally used to emphasize the  अवचेतन  nature of  the   सीखना  process , but in recent  सालो  learning and acquisition have  become  largely synonymous .
Second-language  अधिग्रहण  can  चरितार्थ  heritage language learning  ,  but  it  does  नहीं   प्रायः  incorporate bilingualism  .
Most SLA researchers see  bilingualism   as  being the  समाप्त   परिणाम  of  सीखना   a   भाषा   ,  not the  प्रक्रम   itself  ,  और  see the term  as  referring  to  native-like fluency .
लेखक  in  फ़ील्ड  such  as   शिक्षा  and psychology  ,  however , often use bilingualism  loosely  to refer  to  all  फ़ॉर्म  of  बहुभाषिकता  .
Second-language acquisition is also  नहीं  to  be   contrasted  with the  अधिग्रहण  of a  विदेशी  language ;  बल्कि   ,  the learning  of   दूसरी  languages and  the  learning of  विदेशी   भाषाएं   involve   the  same fundamental  प्रक्रियाओं  in different situations..
There  रै  been  much   बहस  about  exactly   कैसा  language is  सीखे   ,   और   अनेक  issues  हैं   स्टिल   अनसुलझे  .
वहीँ  are  अनेक   theories  of second-language  अधिग्रहण  , but  none   हैं  accepted as  a   पूरा   स्पष्टीकरण   by  all SLA  शोधकर्ताओं  .
Due  to   the   interdisciplinary  nature  of   the  field  of  second-language  अधिग्रहण   ,   इस  is not  अपेक्षित  to happen in the foreseeable  भविष्य  .
Forbes list of  अरबपतियों  is  an  annual  रैंकिंग   of  the  संसार  's wealthiest  लोगों  , compiled  और   प्रकाशित   by  Forbes , an  अमरीकी  national  कारोबार   पत्रिका   .
The total net worth of each individual  on  the list is  अनुमानित   ,  in United States dollars , based  on  their assets  और   हिसाब  for debt  .
The  सूची  only represents each person 's valuation  on   a   सिंगल  day , due to  रोज़  fluctuations among exchange rates and stock valuations .
The  संयुक्त  States Secret  सेवा  is  a   u.S.  federal  विधि   प्रवर्तन   एजेंसी  that is part  of  the United States Department  of  Homeland Security .
the   sworn   सदस्यों  are  विभाजित  among  the  Special  एजेंटों   और  the  uniformed  Division  .
Until  कूच  1 , 2003 , the Service was  भाग   of  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   विभाग  of the Treasury .
the  U.S.  रहस्य   सेवा  has two distinct areas of responsibility:
वित्तीय  Crimes , covering missions such as prevention and  छानबीन  of counterfeiting  of  U.S. currency  और   u.S.  treasury securities  ,  and investigation  of   प्रमुख   धोखाधड़ी  .
Protection , which entails ensuring the  सुरक्षा  of current and  पूर्व  national leaders  और  their families , such  as   the   अध्यक्ष  ,  पास्ट   राष्ट्रपतियों  ,  वाइस  presidents ,  अध्यक्षीय  candidates  ,  visiting  heads  of state , and foreign  embassies   (   प्रति  an agreement  साथ  the  u.S.   राज्य   विभाग   's   ब्यूरो  of Diplomatic  सुरक्षा  ( DS )  दफ्तर  of  विदेशी  Missions ( OFM ) , etc  .   )
The Secret  सेवा  's initial responsibility  थी  to  investigate  counterfeiting  of  U.S. currency ,  जिससे  was  अनियंत्रित  following the  u.S.  Civil War .
the  agency then evolved into the  संयुक्त   राज्य   '  first domestic  प्रज्ञा   और   counterintelligence   एजेंसी  .
अनेक  of the agency  's   मिशन   यहूद   बाद  taken  over  by  subsequent   एजेंसियों  such as the Federal  ब्यूरो  of  छानबीन   (   एफबीआई  ) , Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco  ,  Firearms  और  Explosives  (  ATF  )  , Immigration and Customs  प्रवर्तन  ( ICE ) ,  और  Internal  आय   सेवा  (  irs  ) .
``  me  and  bobby   mcgee  ''  is  a  सोंग  written  by   क्रिस  Kristofferson  और  Fred Foster  ,  originally  performed  by  रोजर   मिलर   .
Others performed the  सोंग  later , including Kristofferson  खुद  , and  janis   joplin   जो  topped the U.S.  singles   चार्ट   साथ   the   सोंग  in 1971  बाद  her death , making  the  song  the  second posthumous  number-one  single in  u.S.  chart  इतिहास  after `` ( Sittin  '  On )  the  Dock of  the   खाड़ी  ``  by  Otis  redding   .
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or  ;  January 30 ,  1882  – April  12   ,  1945  )  ,  भी   ज्ञात   by   उसके   आद्याक्षर   ,  FDR , was  the  32nd  अध्यक्ष   of  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  ( 1933–1945  )   और   a  central figure  in  world  कार्यक्रम  during the  mid-20th  century , leading the United  राज्य  during a  समय   of  worldwide economic  अवसाद   और  total  युद्ध   .
a  dominant leader  of   the  Democratic  पार्टी   और  the only American president  निर्वाचित  to more than  दो   शर्तें  , he  निर्मित  a New  सौदे  Coalition  कि  realigned  अमरीकी   राजनीती   बाद   1932  , as  उसके   घरेलू  policies defined American  उदारतावाद   लिये   the  middle third  of  the 20th  सदी   .
With the bouncy  लोकप्रिय  song `` Happy  दिनों  Are Here  again  ``  as   उसके  campaign theme , FDR defeated incumbent  रिपब्लिकन   हर्बर्ट   हूवर  in  नवम्बर  1932  ,   at   the   गहराई   of  the Great Depression .
Energized  by  his  निजी  victory  over   पोलियो   ,  FDR 's unfailing  आशावाद  and activism contributed to  a   नवीकरण  of the national spirit .
He worked  closely   साथ   अंग्रेजों  Prime Minister Winston Churchill  और  Soviet  सामान्य  Secretary  जोसेफ   स्टालिन   in  leading  the   allies  against Germany  और   जापानी  in World War  ii  , and restoring  समृद्धि  to  the  nation  's  economy  .
in  his  पहला   सौ   दिनों  in office ,  जिससे  began  कूच  4  ,  1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and  जारी  a profusion  of  executive  आदेश  that  instituted  the New  सौदे   —a   किस्में  of programs designed to produce relief  (  government jobs  लिये   the   बेरोजगार  ) , recovery  (   आर्थिक  growth )  ,  and reform  (   through  regulation  of   वॉल   गली   ,  banks and transportation  )  .
The  अर्थव्यवस्था  improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937  ,   लकिन   तब  relapsed into a  गहन   मंदी   .
The  bipartisan   रूढ़िवादी   गठबन्धन  that formed  in  1937  prevented   उसके  packing the Supreme  अदालत  or passing any considerable  विधान  ;  it   abolished   अनेक  of  the   राहत   कार्यक्रम   जब   बेरोजगारी   diminished  during World  युद्ध   ii  .
Most of the  regulations  on business were ended about 1975–85  ,  except for  the   विनियमन  of Wall Street  by   the  Securities and Exchange Commission , which  स्टिल  exists  .
साथ  with several  छोटी  programs , major surviving programs include the  संघीय   जमा  Insurance Corporation  ,  which was  निर्मित  in 1933 ,  और  Social Security , which Congress  passed   in  1935 .
As World War II loomed after  1938  , with  the  Japanese  आक्रमण   of  China  और   the  aggression  of   नाजी  Germany , FDR gave strong diplomatic  और  financial support  to  China  और  Great Britain ,  जबकि  remaining officially  न्यूट्रल  .
उसके  goal was to make America  the  `` Arsenal  of  Democracy `` which would  सप्लाई  munitions to the  allies  .
In March  1941  , Roosevelt ,  साथ  Congressional approval  ,  provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against  नाजी  Germany  साथ  Britain .
साथ   बहुत  strong  नेशनल  support  ,  he  बना  war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor  on  December 7  ,  1941  ,   कॉलिंग   it   a  `` date which  होगा  live in  infamy  `` .
he  supervised the mobilization  of  the  u.S.  economy to support the  अलाइड   युद्ध   प्रयत्न   .
as   an   क्रियाशील   सैन्य  leader  ,  Roosevelt implemented an  overall  war  रणनीति  on  दो  fronts  कि   ended   in  the  शिकस्त  of  the  Axis  शक्तियां  and  the  development of the world 's first  अणु  bomb  .
In  1942   रूज़वेल्ट   ordered  the internment  of   100,000  Japanese  अमरीकी  civilians .
बेरोजगारी  dropped to 2  %   ,   राहत  programs largely  ended  ,  और  the industrial  अर्थव्यवस्था  grew  rapidly   to  new heights as  लाखो  of people moved to new jobs in war centers  ,   और   16  million  मेन   और  300,000 women  यहूद   drafted   or   volunteered   लिये   सैन्य  service .
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only during the twelve years of his presidency ,  लकिन  also  लिये  decades afterward  .
He orchestrated  the  realignment of  मतदाता  that  निर्मित   the  Fifth Party  प्रणाली  .
fdr  's New  सौदे  Coalition united  मजदूर   संघ   ,  big city machines , white ethnics , African Americans  और   ग्रामीण   श्वेत  Southerners .
he  also influenced the later  सृष्टि  of  the  United  राष्ट्र   और  Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently  रेटेड  by  विद्वानों  as one  of  the top three U.S. Presidents  ,  along  साथ   अब्राहम   lincoln  and  जार्ज  Washington .
A  उदार  Democrat ,  रूज़वेल्ट  defined his  वैचारिक  position as  ``   a  little left of center . ''
Mara Salvatrucha  (  commonly  abbreviated  as  ms  , Mara  ,   और   ms-13   )   is  a  transnational   दण्ड  gang that originated in Los Angeles  और   रै  spread  to   अन्य   भाग  of the United  राज्य  ,  कनाडा   ,  Mexico  ,   और  Central  अमेरिका  .
The majority  of  the gang  is  ethnically  रचित   of   सेंट्रल  Americans  और  active  in   शहरी  and suburban  क्षेत्रों   .
in   the   u.S.  , the  ms-13  has  an  especially heavy presence  in   लॉस  Angeles County and  the   सैन  Francisco  खाड़ी   क्षेत्रफल  in Northern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ;   the  Washington  ,   d.C.  metropolitan areas  of  Fairfax County ,  वर्जिनिया  , Montgomery  काउंटी   ,  Maryland  ,   और  Prince  जार्ज  's  काउंटी  ,  मेरीलैंड  ; Long  द्वीप  ,  नई   यॉर्क   ;  the  बोस्टन  , Massachusetts  क्षेत्रफल   ;  Charlotte  ,   उत्तर   कैरोलिना   ;   और  Houston , Texas  .
वहीँ  is  भी  a presence of  ms-13  in Toronto , Ontario  ,   कनाडा  .
सदस्यों   of   ms  distinguish  themselves  by  टैटू  covering  the   देह  and also often  the  face  ,  as well as  the  use  of  their  अपना   चिह्न  language .
They are notorious  लिये   उनके  use  of  violence and  a   subcultural  moral code  कि   predominantly  consists of merciless revenge  और   बेदर्द   retributions  .
This  क्रूरता  of  the  distinguished members of  the   ``  Maras '' or `` Mareros  ''   अर्जित  them  a  path to be  recruited  by the  sinaloa  Cartel  battling  against Los Zetas in an  जारी  drug war south of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  border .
उनके  wide-ranging  क्रियाएँ  have drawn the attention of the  एफबीआई   और  Immigration  और   कस्टम  Enforcement  ,  who have  initiated  wide-scale raids  विरूद्ध   ज्ञात   और  suspected  गिरोह  members –  netting  hundreds of arrests  आरपार   the  country .
हड्डियों   is  an  अमरीकी  crime comedy-drama television series that premiered  on  the Fox network in  the  United States  on   सितंबर  13  ,  2005  .
The show is  आधारित  on  forensic   मानवशास्त्र   और  forensic archaeology  ,   साथ  each  एपीसोड  focusing on an FBI case file concerning  the   रहस्य  behind human  remains   brought   by   एफबीआई   खास  Agent Seeley  बूथ   (  David  boreanaz  ) to  the  forensic anthropologist Dr. Temperance  ``  Bones  ''   ब्रेनन  ( Emily Deschanel )  .
The rest of the  प्रमुख   डाल  includes Michaela Conlin ,  T.   J.   thyne  ,  eric  Millegan  ,   tamara  Taylor  ,   जोनाथन   एडम्स  , and  जॉन  Francis Daley  .
निर्मित   by  Hart Hanson  ,  the  श्रेणी   is   बहुत  loosely based  on   the  life  और   कृतियाँ   of   उपन्यासकार  and forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs ,  जो  also  produces  the  दिखाएँ  .
इसके   शीर्षक   अक्षर   ,  Temperance  ब्रेनन  , is  नामित  after the  समर्थक  of  reichs  ' crime novel  श्रेणी   .
Conversely , Dr. Brennan  writes  successful  रहस्य   novels  based  around  a fictional  (   in  the Bones universe ) forensic  anthropologist   नामित   कैथी  Reichs .
Bones is  a  joint production by  जोसेफसन   entertainment  , Far  फ़ील्ड   प्रोडक्शन्स  and 20th Century  फॉक्स   टेलीविज़न  .
The series  रै  completed airing its eighth season  और   रै   महरूम   नवीनीकृत   लिये  a ninth  ऋतु   .
Super  कटोरी   xxv  was  an   अमरीकी  football game  between  the American  फ़ुटबॉल   सम्मेलन  ( AFC  )  champion Buffalo Bills and  the  National  फ़ुटबॉल  Conference (  nfc  )  चैंपियन   नई  York  दिग्गज  to decide the  नेशनल  Football League  (  NFL ) champion for  the   1990   ऋतु  .
The Giants defeated  the  Bills by  the  score  of  20–19 , winning their second ever Super  कटोरी  .
It is the only Super  कटोरी   decided  by one point  .
The game was held at Tampa  स्टेडियम   in   tampa   ,  Florida  ,   on   जनवरी   27  , 1991  ,   दौरान  the height of the Gulf  युद्ध   .
it  was  यूँ  played under  much  patriotic  fervor  .
The proceedings  शामिल   a  rousing  rendition  of  ``   the  Star-Spangled Banner  ``  by Whitney  ह्यूस्टन  during  the   pregame   ceremonies  .
the  Bills and  उनके  explosive  no-huddle   ठोकर  were  बनाना  their first Super Bowl appearance  बाद   finishing  the  नियमित   ऋतु  with a 13-3  रिकार्ड   ,   और   अग्रणी  the league in total points  scored  with 428 .
in   advancing  to  उनके  second Super  कटोरी  ,  the  Giants also  posted   a   13-3  regular  ऋतु   रिकार्ड   ,   लकिन   साथ  a  ball-control  offense and a defense that allowed  a  league  कम  211 points .
The game  is   बेहतरीन  remembered for Bills placekicker  स्कॉट   नॉर्वुड  's  last-second   फ़ील्ड  goal  attempt   जिससे  went wide right  of   the   uprights  ,  अग्रणी   to  a Giants victory ,  और   starting  a  four-game  losing streak  in  the Super  कटोरी  for  the   बिल्स   .
The  दिग्गज  set  a  Super  कटोरी  record  पकड़कर  possession of the ball for 40 minutes and  33  seconds .
New York also  overcame  a 12-3 second-quarter  deficit   ,  and  बना  a 75-yard touchdown  ड्राइव  that  खपत   a  Super Bowl record 9:29 off  the   क्लॉक  .
Giants  कार्यशील   वापस   ottis  Anderson , who carried the ball 21  टाइम्स  for  102   गज  and one touchdown  ,  was named  सुपर  Bowl MVP .
He was the first awardee to receive  the  newly  नामित  `` Pete Rozelle Trophy '' ( named  लिये  the former commissioner ) .
एंडरसन  also recorded one  रिसेप्शन   लिये  seven yards .
Malcolm X  (  ; May 19  ,   1925february   21  , 1965 )  ,  born Malcolm Little and also  ज्ञात   as  El-Hajj  malik   el-shabazz  (  )  , was an African-American  मुस्लिम  minister and  इंसान   अधिकारों   activist  .
to   उसके   admirers  ,  he   थी   a  courageous advocate for the rights of  अश्वेतों   ,   a  man who  indicted   श्वेत  America in the harshest  शर्तें  for its crimes  विरूद्ध   ब्लैक  Americans .
Detractors accused him  of  preaching  जातिवाद  , black supremacy , and violence .
He  रै  been  पुकारा  one  of  the greatest and most influential  अफ़्रीकी  Americans in  इतिहास  .
Malcolm  x   's  father died—killed by white  supremacists  ,  it   थी  rumored—when  he   थी  young  ,  and  at  least one  of  his uncles was lynched .
When he  थी  13 , his mother was  लगाई  in a mental hospital  ,  and  he  was  लगाई  in a  श्रेणी   of  foster homes .
in  1946 , at  आयु   20   ,   he  went  to  prison for breaking  और   प्रवेश   .
in   थाना   ,  Malcolm  x  became  a  member of the Nation of  islam   ;  after his parole  in   1952   ,   he  quickly rose  to  become one  of   इसके  leaders  .
लिये   a  dozen  सालो   ,  Malcolm X  थी  the public face of the controversial group , but disillusionment with  स्वदेश  of Islam head  इलियास   मुहम्मद  led him  to   छोड़   the  Nation in March  1964  .
After a period  of  travel in Africa and the Middle East  ,   he   लौटे  to  the   संयुक्त  States ,  जहाँ  he  संस्थापित   मुस्लिम  Mosque  ,   inc.   और  the Organization of Afro-American  एकता   .
in  February 1965 ,  कम   than  a  साल  after leaving  the   स्वदेश  of  islam  , he was  assassinated  by three members of  the  group .
Malcolm X  's  expressed beliefs  बदला   substantially  over time .
as  a spokesman for  the   स्वदेश  of Islam he taught black  सर्वोच्चता  and advocated separation of black  और  white  अमेरिकी   —in  contrast to the  सिविल   अधिकारों  movement  's   जोर  on  संयोजन  .
After breaking with  the  Nation  of   islam   in   1964—saying   of  his association with  it  , ``  i   किया   अनेक   बाते  as a [ Black ] Muslim  कि   i  'm sorry  लिये  now  .
I was a  प्रेत  then  ...   pointed  in  a  certain  दिशा  and told  to   कूच  '' —and  बनने  a  सुन्नी  Muslim ,  he  disavowed racism and  expressed  willingness  to  work with  सिविल   अधिकारों   नेताओ  , he  जारी   to   emphasize   pan-africanism   ,  black self-determination , and  self-defense  .
the  third season of 90210 , an  अमरीकी  television series ,  premiered  on Monday September  13  , 2010  .
the  CW officially  नवीनीकृत   the   दिखाएँ  for  a  third season  on  February  16  , 2010 .
साथ   the  reveal of the  संजाल  fall 2010  अनुसूची   ,   वे   घोषित  their decision  to   मूव  90210  to  Monday  नाइट्स   at  8:00  pm  , as  a  lead-in to Gossip  लड़की   .
it  premiered  on  September  13   ,   2010  and was met with  generally   धनात्मक  reviews from critics  .
the  season picks up at the  समाप्त  of summer and  focuses  on  the  students senior year of high  स्कूल   .
It follows Adrianna 's  वृद्धि  to fame  ,  a new  संबंध  between Silver and Navid and a confused  टेडी   जो  decides  to   खुलासा   to   उसके   परिवार  and friends he  is   gay   .
It also deals with  the  aftermath  of   नाओमी  Clark  's   उत्पीड़न  .
Regular cast members  लिये   the  season  शामिल  Shenae Grimes  ,  Tristan  wilds  ,  annalynne  McCord ,  रयान   eggold  , Jessica Stroup  ,   माइकल  Steger  ,  Jessica Lowndes , Matt Lanter ,  गिलियन   zinser  , Trevor  डोनोवन  and Lori Loughlin .
रेबेका  Sinclair continued her role as  कार्यपालिका  producer for  the  season .
The season  premiered   to  1.96 million viewers  और  a 0.9 rating in the adults  18–49  demographic .
Christmas-themed episode ``  अवकाश  Madness  ''   ,  hit season  highs  in all key demos with 2.1  in  The CW  's   निशाना   डेमो   of  women 18–34 ,  a   1.4  in  वयस्कों   18–34  and a 1.1  in   वयस्कों  18–49 .
It  थी   भी  the most watched episode in over  a   साल   साथ  2.2 million viewers  ट्यूनिंग   in   .
The  ऋतु  finale  aired  on  may   16   ,  2011  .
The  ऋतु  averaged  1.75  million  सजीव   दर्शक   और  a 0.9  वयस्कों  18–49  दरजा   .
it   थी  released on DVD in  the  United States on August  30  ,  2011   .
Elizabeth  ii  ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ;  born  21 April 1926 ) is  the   संवैधानिक   monarch  of 16  sovereign   राज्य   ,   ज्ञात   as  the Commonwealth realms  ,  and their  territories   और   dependencies  , and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
She  is  Supreme  राज्यपाल  of the  गिरिजाघर  of England  और  , in some of her realms , carries  the  title of  defender   of  the Faith  as  part of  उसके   पूरा  title .
On  उसके  accession  on  6 February  1952   ,  Elizabeth became  सिर  of  the  Commonwealth and  महारानी   regnant   of  seven  स्वतंत्र   राष्ट्रमंडल   देशों  :  the  United Kingdom  ,  Canada  ,  Australia , New Zealand  ,  South Africa  ,   पाकिस्तानी  and Ceylon  .
From 1956 to  1992  ,  the   क्रमांक  of  उसके   realms   varied  as territories gained  स्वतंत्रता   और  some realms became republics  .
At present ,  in   जोड   to   the  first  चार  aforementioned countries  ,   एलिज़ाबेथ   is  Queen of  जमैका   ,  Barbados , the Bahamas ,  हरा   ,  Papua New  गिनी  , the Solomon  आइलैंड्स   ,  Tuvalu  ,  Saint Lucia  ,  Saint  विंसेंट  and the Grenadines  ,   बेलीज़   ,   अण्टीगुआ  and  बारबूडा  and Saint  किट्स  and  नेविस  .
उसके  reign  of  years  is  currently the second longest for a British monarch  ;   तभी  Queen Victoria has reigned  longer  at over 63  सालो   .
Elizabeth  थी   born  in London and educated  privately   at  home  .
उसके  father acceded to the throne  as  George  vi   in  1936  on   the  abdication of  उसके   bhai  Edward VIII , from which time  वो   थी   the   वारिस  presumptive  .
वो  began  to   undertake   पब्लिक   कर्तव्य  during the  दूसरी  World  युद्ध   ,  in which  वो  served in  the   auxiliary  Territorial  सेवा  .
In 1947 , she  शादीशुदा   प्रिंस  Philip  ,   ड्यूक  of  एडिनबर्ग  ,  साथ  whom she has  चार   children  :  चार्ल्स   ,  Anne  ,   एंड्रयू   ,  and Edward  .
उसके  coronation service took place in  1953   और  was the  पहला  to  be  televised  .
the   महारानी  's many  ऐतिहासिक   विज़िट  and meetings include  a  state visit  to   the   गणतंत्र   of   आयरलैंड  and  reciprocal  visits to  और  from  the  Pope .
the  Queen has  देखी  major constitutional changes  in   उसके  realms , such as  devolution   in  the United  किंगडम  and the  patriation  of the Canadian  संविधान  .
टाइम्स   of   निजी  significance  have   शामिल  the  births  and  विवाह  of her children ,  the  births of  उसके  grandchildren ,  the  investiture  of   the  Prince  of  Wales ,  और  the  जश्न   of   माइलस्टोन  such as her  चांदी  , Golden , and Diamond Jubilees in 1977  ,  2002  ,   और   2012  ,  क्रमशः   .
Major  कार्यक्रम  in the  महारानी   's  reign  have   शामिल  the  परेशानियों   in   उत्तरी  Ireland  ,  the  falklands  War , wars  साथ  Iraq and the War in  अफगानिस्तान  .
There have  महरूम   टाइम्स  of personal  विषाद  for her  जिससे  include the  मौत   of  her  पिता  at 56 ,  the  assassination  of   प्रिंस   फिलिप   's  uncle  ,  Lord  माउंटबेटन   ,  the  विश्लेषण   of   उसके  children 's marriages  in   1992   (  a year deemed  उसके  annus horribilis )  ,   the   मौत  in  1997  of her former daughter-in-law , Diana , Princess of Wales , and  the   मौतों   of   उसके   माँ   और   सिस्टर  in 2002 .
The Queen has  occasionally   faced  severe press criticism of the  royal  family and republican sentiments , but  support  for the  साम्राज्य  and  उसके  personal popularity remain high  .
the   2010  United  राज्य  Senate  चुनाव   in   फ्लोरिडा  took place on  नवम्बर  2  ,  2010 along with  अन्य  elections  to   the  United States  सीनेट  in other states as well  as   सब  elections to  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  House  of  Representatives and various state and  लोकल   चुनावों  .
रिपब्लिकन  Marco  rubio   ,  former Speaker of the Florida  हाउस  of Representatives , defeated independent  चार्ली  Crist and Democrat Kendrick Meek  in   a  three-way  रेस   .
एक  term  सीनेटर  Mel Martinez  थी   निर्वाचित   in  a  बहुत  close  रेस   विरूद्ध  Democrat Betty  अरंडी   in   2004   साथ   49  % of the  vote   .
Martinez  घोषित  on  दिसम्बर   2   ,  2008  कि   he  would not seek  re-election  to  the  Senate , and  होता  resign prior  to  the  समाप्त  of  उसके  term .
In August  2009  , Governor Charlie  crist   घोषित  that  he   होता   नियुक्त   उसके  former Chief of  स्टाफ  , George LeMieux , a  रिपब्लिकन  ,  to  the  सीनेट  seat  होने  vacated by Martinez  .
राज्यपाल  Crist  सरेआम  announced  he   थी  running for the seat in mid-2009 .
At the time he  प्राप्त  many  रिपब्लिकन  endorsements  ,  such  as  the  नेशनल  Republican Senatorial  कमेटी   ,  Martinez ,  और  the 2008  रिपब्लिकन  presidential  nominee  John  मैक्केन   .
His  support  of the  अमरीकी  Recovery and  reinvestment  Act  of   2009  hurt his  लोकप्रियता   among   conservatives   ,  and  प्रत्याशी  Marco  rubio  surged  .
in   अप्रैल  2010  crist  announced  he  would drop  आउट  of  the  Republican primary  और   चलाएं  as an independent  .
The  नेशनल  Republican Senatorial  कमेटी  withdrew  इसके  endorsement  of  Crist  और  demanded  a   refund  of its  अभियान   निधि  that it  provided  for the Crist  अभियान  .
Congressman Kendrick Meek  थी  the  पहला   डेमोक्रेट   to   घोषित   उसके  intention to run .
Alexander  snitker   थी   the  first member of  the  Libertarian Party on  the   बैलट   लिये   सीनेटर   in  Florida  's  history  .
Satellite  दृश्य  of Doha
दोहा   (  , '  or   '   ,   वस्तुतः   :   ``   the  big  पेड़  '' )  is   the  capital  नगर   of   the   राज्य   of   क़तर   .
स्तिथ   on   the   coast  of the  पारसी   गल्फ   ,
it  था   a  population of  998,651  in  2008  , and  is   भी  one  of  the municipalities  of  Qatar .
Doha  is   क़तर  's largest  नगर  ,  साथ  over 60  %   of  the  स्वदेश  's  जनसांख्यिकी  residing in Doha or  इसके   surrounding   उपनगरों  ,  और  is also  the  economic centre of the country  .
दोहा  also serves  as  the  सीट  of  सरकारी  of Qatar  ,  which is ruled  by  Sheikh  हमद  bin Khalifa Al  थानी  .
Doha is  घर  to  the  Education  नगर  ,  an  area  devoted  to  शोध  and  शिक्षा  .
Doha was the site of the first ministerial-level meeting of the Doha Development Round of World  व्यापार  Organization negotiations  .
the  city of Doha  आयोजित  the  2006   एशियाई   खेल   ,  which  थी  the largest  एशियाई  Games ever held  .
दोहा   भी  hosted the 2011  पण   अरब  Games and most of  the   खेल  at the  2011  AFC  एशियाई   कप  .
दोहा   hosted   the  UNFCCC  जलवायु   negotiations   (  COP 18  )  December 2012 and  होगा  host a  विशाल   क्रमांक   of   the   venues  for  the  2022 FIFA World Cup  .
the  World Petroleum Council held the 20th World Petroleum Conference  in  Doha in December 2011 .
paranasal   साइनस  are  a  group  of  four paired  air-filled   स्पेसेस   कि   घेर  the nasal cavity ( maxillary sinuses  )  , above  the  eyes ( frontal sinuses  )  , between  the  eyes ( ethmoid  साइनस  )  ,  and  पीछे   the  ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses  )   .
The sinuses  हैं  named for  the   फेशियल   हड्डियों   in   जिससे  they are located .
Lean  निर्माण  , lean enterprise ,  or  lean  उत्पादन  ,  प्रायः   बस  , `` Lean ,  ''  is  a  production practice  कि   considers  the expenditure of resources for  कोई  goal other than the  सृष्टि  of  मान   लिये   the   समाप्त  customer  to   be   अपव्यय  ,  और  thus a target for elimination .
working   इससे   the  perspective of  the  customer  जो   consumes   a   उत्पाद   or  service  ,   ``  value '' is  पारिभाषित  as  कोई   कार्रवाई   or   प्रक्रम  that a customer  होता   be   willing   to   अदा  for .
essentially   ,  lean  is   केन्द्रित   on   preserving  value  साथ  less  कार्य   .
Lean  निर्माण  is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota  उत्पादन  System  (  TPS )  (  hence  the  term Toyotism is  भी  prevalent  )  and  पहचाना   as  `` Lean '' only  in  the 1990s .
TPS is renowned for  इसके  focus on reduction of  the  original  टोयोटा   सात   wastes  to improve overall  ग्राहक   मान  , but  वहीँ  are  varying   perspectives  on how  इस  is  बेहतरीन  achieved  .
the  steady growth of  टोयोटा   ,  from  a   छोटी   कम्पनी   to   the  world 's  largest   automaker   ,  has focused attention on  कैसा  it  रै   हासिल  this success  .
icarly  logo
iCarly is an  अमरीकी   sitcom  that airs on Nickelodeon  ,  which  premiered  on  सितंबर   8   ,  2007 .
Nickelodeon promoted  अनेक  episodes so  दूर  such  as   ``  iDo  ''  , `` iHire  an   idiot  ''  ,   ``  iPity the Nevel '' ,  ``   idate   sam  &  फ्रेडी  ''  ,   इत्यादि  .  as  specials ,  despite   उनके  being regular episodes  .
प्रत्येक  episode title begins with  a  lower case i  जिससे  represents the internet  ,   as   in  ``  icarly   ''  .
the  show was  मनोनीत  for  an   एमी   पुरस्कार  for Outstanding Children 's  कार्यक्रम  in  2009  .
The  श्रेणी  starring  मिरांडा  Cosgrove as  कार्ली   शे   ,  a 13-year-old who becomes an Internet  स्टार   .
The series ended on November  23  , 2012  साथ  the one-hour  खास  episode  ``  iGoodbye  ''  .
a  total of  7   सीज़न  and  109   एपीसोड  were broadcast .
the   largest  audience of the series was 11.2 million viewers , with  the  special episode  ``   isaved  Your Life '' premiered in January 2010  .
जब  Carly ( Miranda  cosgrove   )  and her sassy best friend Sam ( Jennette McCurdy ) act  मजेदार   at   a  school talent  दिखाएँ  audition  ,  tech-savvy  फ्रेडी  ( Nathan Kress  )   टेपों  it  और  posts it  ऑनलाइन  without  telling  them .
बाद   देखकर  the girls ' strong  रसायन   और  banter  ,  the online  दर्शक  clamors for more  और  the  icarly  webcast is born  .
जबकि   grappling  with typical  मुद्दे  of adolescence  ,  Carly  ,  Sam , and Freddie  ढूँढें   आउट  that they  have  also  become   ऑनलाइन  celebrities as their show – which features  हुनर  contests  ,  recipes , problem-solving  ,  and random dancing  –  garners international accolades  .
कार्ली   जीवनदान   in   सिएटल   ,  Washington with her 26-year-old brother and guardian Spencer ( Jerry  trainor   )  and  produces  the show  in   a   makeshift  third-floor  स्टुडियो  loft  in   उनके  apartment .
Their mother has never been  देखी  or mentioned ,  लकिन  their father  ,  Steven  शे  ( David  chisum  ) ,  is  a U.S.  एयर  Force officer temporarily stationed  on   a  submarine ,  और  is  प्रायः  mentioned but is only seen in person during the  श्रेणी   finale  episode , ``  igoodbye  '' .
westlife  were an  आयरिश   लड़के   बैंड  which  formed   in  1998 and disbanded in  2012  .
Originally  हस्ताक्षरित   by  Simon  cowell   और  managed  by  Louis Walsh  ,  the  समूह   's   फाइनल   line-up  consisted of  nicky  Byrne  ,  Kian  egan   ,  Mark Feehily  और  Shane Filan  .
Brian McFadden  थी  a  सदस्य   इससे   1998  until his departure in 2004 .
westlife   बेची   over  50 million  रिकॉर्ड  worldwide ,  a  total that  शामिल   स्टुडियो  albums  ,  singles , video  रिलीज   ,  and compilation albums .
The group accumulated 14 number-one singles  in   the   संयुक्त   किंगडम  ( the third-highest in UK  इतिहास  )  ,   tying   साथ   चट्टान  Richard  और  ranking just  पीछे  The Beatles  और   एल्विस   प्रेस्ली   .
वे  achieved a total of 26  शीर्ष  ten singles over their 14-year  करियर  .
by   2010  , Westlife  थी   सूचीबद्ध   in  the Guinness World Records ,  as   the   uk   's   top-selling   एल्बम  group  of  the  21st   सदी  .
They  भी  won The  रिकार्ड   of   the  Year  (   the  only  म्यूज़िक  award based  on  public votes  in   the  UK )  a  record-breaking  चार  times and in  2012  , the  आधिकारिक   चार्ट   कम्पनी   सूचीबद्ध  Westlife  34th  amongst  the  biggest-selling  singles  artists in British music history  .
despite   उनके   यूरोपीय  and  एशियाई  success , Westlife never managed to break  into   the   u.S.   मार्केट  ,  achieving  only one hit  सिंगल  in  2000   :   ``  Swear  it  Again `` .
in  October  2011  , Westlife announced their intention to split  in   2012   ,  following their Greatest  हिट्स   दौरे  and  the   रिलीज  of their Greatest  हिट्स  album  .
The boyband  's  final concerts were  आयोजित  on  22   और   23  June 2012  at   croke  Park Stadium in Dublin  .
the  first  विदाई   कॉन्सर्ट  , offering 85,000  टिकटें   ,  sold  आउट  in a record-breaking 5  मिनट्स  and the  latter  screened live in  cinemas   विश्वव्यापी  .
Vitamin  a  is a group  of  nutritionally  असंतृप्त  hydrocarbons , which include retinol  ,  retinal , retinoic acid  और  several  provitamin  A carotenoids  among  which  beta-carotene  is  the  most  महत्वपूर्ण  .
विटामिन   a  has  अनेक   कृत्यों   ,  it  is   महत्वपूर्ण  for  विकास   और  development  ,  for the  मेंटेनेंस  of  the   प्रतिरक्षा   प्रणाली  and  शुभ   दृष्टि   .
Vitamin A is needed  by   the   retina  of  the  eye in the form of retinal  ,  which combines with protein  opsin   to  form  rhodopsin   the   light-absorbing   अणु  ,  कि  is necessary for  दोनो  low-light (  scotopic  vision ) and  रंग   दृष्टि  .
Vitamin  a  also functions in a  बहुत  different  भूमिका   as  an  irreversibly  oxidized form of retinol known as retinoic  एसिड   ,  which is  an   महत्वपूर्ण  hormone-like  विकास   फ़ैक्टर  for  epithelial  and other  कोशिकाएं  .
in   भोजन   of  animal origin  ,  the major  रूप  of vitamin  a   is   an   ester  , primarily retinyl palmitate , which is  परिवर्तित  to retinol ( chemically an  दारू   )   in  the  छोटी  intestine  .
The retinol form functions  as  a  भंडार  form of the vitamin ,  और  can be converted to and from its  visually  active aldehyde form  ,  retinal .
the   संबद्ध  acid (  retinoic  acid ) , a  metabolite  that can  be  irreversibly synthesized from vitamin A  ,   रै  only partial  विटामिन  A activity ,  और   करता  not function  in   the  retina  लिये  the  विज़ुअल   साईकिल   .
retinoic   एसिड  is  प्रयुक्त  for  विकास  and cellular  differentiation  .
All forms of vitamin A  have  a  beta-ionone   रिंग  to  जिससे   an  isoprenoid chain  is  attached ,  पुकारा  a  retinyl   समूह  .
Both  संरचनात्मक  features are essential  लिये   विटामिन  activity .
the  orange  रंजक  of  गाजर  – beta-carotene – can be  represented  as two connected  retinyl   समूह  , which are  प्रयुक्त   in   the   देह   to  contribute  to   विटामिन  A  स्तर  .
Alpha-carotene  और  gamma-carotene  भी   have   a   सिंगल   retinyl  group  ,   जिससे   दे  them some vitamin activity .
None  of  the  अन्य   carotenes   have  vitamin  कार्यकलाप  .
The  carotenoid  beta- cryptoxanthin possesses  an  ionone  समूह   और   रै  vitamin activity in  इंसानो  .
Vitamin A  can   be   मिला   in   दो  principal forms  in  foods :
Retinol , the form  of  vitamin A  अवशोषित   जब  eating  एनिमल  food sources  ,  is a yellow  ,   fat-soluble  substance .
Since  the  pure alcohol form is unstable  ,  the  विटामिन  is found  in  tissues in a  रूप  of  retinyl   ester  .
It is  भी  commercially  उत्पादित   और  administered  as  esters  ऐसे   as   retinyl  acetate  or  palmitate .
the   carotenes  alpha-carotene ,  beta-carotene   ,  gamma-carotene ;  और   the  xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin  (   सब  of  जिससे  contain  beta-ionone   बजती  ) ,  लकिन  no  अन्य   carotenoids  ,  फलन  as  provitamin  A in herbivores and omnivore animals , which  possess   the   एंजाइम  ( 15-15'-dioxygenase  )   जिससे   cleaves  beta-carotene in  the   intestinal  mucosa and  converts  it  रेटिनॉल   .
In general  ,  carnivores are poor converters  of  ionine-containing carotenoids  ,  and pure carnivores such as cats and  ferrets   कमी  15-15'-dioxygenase and  can  not convert  कोई  carotenoids  to  retinal (  resulting  in none of  the   carotenoids   होने   फ़ॉर्म  of  विटामिन  A for these  प्रजाति  ) .
सेलिना  Marie  गोमेज़  (  born   जुलाई   22  , 1992 ) is an American  सिंगर   और   अभिनेत्री  .
She made  उसके   डेब्यू  as a  चाइल्ड  actress in Barney  &   मित्रों  .
In  2007  , Gomez  आए  to prominence as a  अभिनीत   डाल   सदस्य  in  the  television series Wizards  of   waverly   प्लेस  .
She signed to Hollywood  रिकॉर्ड   the  following year ,  और  became  the  founder  और   सीसे  singer  of  the pop band Selena Gomez  &   the  Scene .
उनके  studio  एल्बम   चुंबन  &  बताना   (  2009 )  ,  A Year Without Rain (  2010  ) , and When  the  Sun Goes Down (  2011  )  यहूद  certified  सुनहरा   by   the  Recording Industry Association of  अमेरिका  (  riaa  ) and  have  spawned Platinum-certified singles `` Naturally ``  ,   ``  Who Says  ``  ,  और   ``   प्रेम  You like a Love  सोंग  `` .
बाद   the  release  of  television films and their accompanying  soundtracks  ,  गोमेज़   बना   उसके  theatrical  फिल्मी   डेब्यू   in  Ramona and  beezus  in 2010 and starred in Monte Carlo  in  2011  .
upon  the  निष्कर्ष  of Wizards of Waverly Place and  the  hiatus  of  Selena  गोमेज़  & the Scene  in   2012  , she focused on  उसके  film career , serving as a voice  अभिनेत्री  in Hotel  transylvania   और   अभिनीत   in   वसन्त   ब्रेकर्स   the  following  साल   .
Her debut solo album is  tentatively   अनुसूचित  to be  released  in summer 2013 , and  is   preceded   by   इसके  lead single  ``   आइये   &  Get It ``  .
बाहर   of  her work in the entertainment industry ,  गोमेज़   is  involved  in  philanthropic activities through charity  कार्य   और  various social and environmental causes .
Tracie Monique Spencer  (   born   जुलाई  12  ,   1976  ) is an  अमरीकी   r  & B  और  pop  singer-songwriter  , actress , and model  .
Sacramento is  the   पूंजी  city  of  the U.S.  राज्य   of   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  and the  सीट   of  government of Sacramento County .
It is  स्तिथ   at  the confluence of  the   sacramento  River and the  अमरीकी   नदी  in the  उत्तरी   portion  of California  's  expansive  सेंट्रल   घाटी  .
With an  अनुमानित  2011  जनसांख्यिकी  of 477,891 , it is  the  sixth-largest  नगर   in   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  and  the   35th   largest   नगर   in  the United  राज्य  .
Sacramento is the core cultural  और  economic center  of  the Sacramento  महानगर  area  जिससे   शामिल   सात  counties with an  अनुमानित   2009  population of 2,527,123 .
Its  महानगर  area is the fourth largest in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  after the  वृहद  Los  एंजिल्स  Area , San  फ्रांसिस्को   खाड़ी   क्षेत्रफल  ,  और  the  सैन   डिएगो   महानगर  area ,  as  well as the  25th  largest in  the   संयुक्त  States .
sacramento  was  cited  by Time magazine as  अमेरिका  's most  ethnically  and racially integrated city in  2002   .
Sacramento became a  नगर  through  the   प्रयत्न   of  the  स्विस  immigrant  जॉन  Sutter  ,  Sr. , his  बेटे  John  sutter   ,   jr.   ,  and James  W.  Marshall  .
sacramento  grew quickly  धन्यवाद  to  the  protection  of  Sutter  's   फोर्ट  , which was established by Sutter in 1839  .
दौरान   the  California Gold Rush  ,  Sacramento  थी  a major  वितरण  point ,  a  commercial  और   agricultural  center  ,  and a terminus  लिये  wagon trains , stagecoaches ,  riverboats  ,  the  telegraph , the  टट्टू  Express  ,   और   the   पहला  Transcontinental Railroad .
California State University  ,  Sacramento ,  अधिक   commonly   ज्ञात   as  Sacramento  राज्य  or  सैक   राज्य  , is  the  largest  लोकल  university .
it  is one of  the   twenty-three  campuses of the California State  विश्वविद्यालयों   प्रणाली  .
Drexel  विश्वविद्यालयों  Sacramento  is  located  in  Downtown , Sacramento .
University of the  प्रशांत   's  McGeorge School  of  Law  is  located  in   the   ओक   पार्क  neighborhood  .
In addition  ,  the University of California , Davis  is  located in  आसपास  Davis , west of  the   पूंजी   .
The  uc   डेविस   चिकित्सा   बीच  ,  a  world-renowned research hospital ,  is  located in the  नगर  of  sacramento  .
Memorial Day is  a   संयुक्त  States federal holiday  जिससे   occurs  every year  on  the final Monday  of  May .
Memorial Day is a day  of   remembering  the men and  महिलाओं  who died while  सेवारत   in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  Armed Forces  .
formerly  known  as   सजावट   दिन  ,  it   originated  after the  अमरीकी  Civil  युद्ध  to commemorate the  संघ   और  Confederate soldiers who died in  the  Civil  युद्ध   .
By  the   20th  century Memorial  दिन  had been  विस्तारित   to  honor  सब  Americans who have died in  सब  wars  .
It typically marks  the   प्रारंभ   of  the summer vacation season  ,   जबकि   मजदूर  Day  marks  its end .
Many  लोगों  visit cemeteries and memorials ,  विशेषकर  to  सम्मान   those   जो  have died in military service .
अनेक  volunteers place  an  American  ध्वज  on each grave in national  कब्रिस्तान   .
by   the  early  20th  century , Memorial  दिन  was  an  occasion for  अधिक  general  expressions   of  memory  ,  as  लोगों  visited  the  graves of their deceased relatives in church  कब्रिस्तान  ,  whether   वे   था   परोसा  in  the  military  or  not .
it  also  became   a  long  वीकेंड  increasingly  devoted   to  shopping , family gatherings  ,  fireworks ,  यात्राएँ   to   the  beach  ,   और  national media  कार्यक्रम  .
सालाना   सजावट  Days for particular  कब्रिस्तान  are  आयोजित  on a Sunday in late  वसन्त  or early summer  in  some rural areas of the  अमरीकी  South , notably in  the  mountains  .
In  मामले  involving  a   परिवार   graveyard   जहाँ  remote  पूर्वजो  as  खूब  as  those  who were deceased more recently are buried  ,  this may take  on  the character of  an   विस्तारित   परिवार  reunion to which  कुछ  people travel  सैंकड़ों  of miles  .
People gather on  the  designated day and put flowers on graves  और  renew  सम्पर्क  with kinfolk  और  others  .
वहीँ   प्रायः  is  a  religious service and  a  ``  डिनर   on   the   मैदान  , '' the traditional term  लिये  a  potluck  meal  in  which people used  to   स्प्रेड  the dishes out on sheets  or  tablecloths on the grass  .
it   is   believed   कि  this practice began  पहले  the  अमरीकी   सिविल  War  और   यूँ   may   प्रतिबिंबित   the  real origin of the  ``   मेमोरियल  day ''  विचार   .
मेमोरियल   दिन  is not  to  be  उलझन   साथ   दिग्गजों   दिन  ; Memorial  दिन   is   a  day of remembering  the  men and women  जो  died while  सेवारत  ,  जबकि   दिग्गजों   दिन   मनाता  the  सेवा   of   सब   u.S.   सैन्य  veterans  ,   जीना   or  dead .
Mt  .  Zion Church state history  मार्कर   निकट  Philadelphia , Mississippi  .
स्वतंत्रता   गर्मियाँ  ( also  ज्ञात  as  the  Mississippi Summer Project  )   थी   a  campaign  in  the United States  शुभारम्भ   in  June 1964  to  attempt  to  register as  अनेक  African  अमरीकी   मतदाता  as possible  in  Mississippi  ,   जिससे   था  historically  excluded  most  अश्वेतों  from  मतदान   .
The  प्रोजेक्ट   भी  set  up  dozens of Freedom Schools ,  स्वतंत्रता   घरों  ,  और   जातियाँ  centers  in  small towns throughout Mississippi  to  aid the  लोकल  black  जनसांख्यिकी  .
The project was  व्यवस्थित   by   the  Council of Federated Organizations ( COFO ) , a coalition  of  the Mississippi  शाखाओं  of the four major civil rights organizations ( SNCC , CORE  ,   naacp  and SCLC  )  .
सबसे  of  the  impetus  ,  leadership , and financing for  the   गर्मियाँ  Project  आए   इससे  the  sncc  .
Robert  parris   मूसा  ,  sncc  field secretary and  co-director   of   cofo   ,   निर्देशित  the summer  प्रोजेक्ट  .
ब्लूज़  is the  नाम   दिए  to  दोनो  a musical form and  a  music  विधा   कि  originated in communities of  primarily  the ``  गहन  South  ``  of the United  राज्य   around  the end of the 19th century from  spirituals  ,  कार्य   गीतों  ,  फ़ील्ड  hollers , shouts and  chants  ,  और  rhymed simple narrative  ballads  .
the  blues form , ubiquitous in  जैज़   ,  rhythm  और   ब्लूज़  , and rock  और  roll is characterized by specific chord progressions  ,   of  which  the   twelve-bar  blues  कॉर्ड   progression   is   the   सबसे   आम   .
the   ब्लू   टीप   कि  , for  अर्थपूर्ण  purposes  हैं   सुंग   or  played flattened  or   धीरे   झुकी  (  नाबालिग  3rd to major  3rd  )  in  relation  to   the   पिच  of  the   प्रमुख  scale  ,   हैं   भी  an important  भाग  of the sound  .
the   ब्लूज़  genre  is   आधारित  on the  ब्लूज़  form but possesses other characteristics  ऐसे   as  specific  गीत   ,  bass lines , and instruments  .
ब्लूज़  can  be  subdivided  into  several subgenres ranging from country to  शहरी  blues  कि  were more  or  less  लोकप्रिय  during  अलग  periods  of   the   20th   सदी  .
Best  ज्ञात  are the Delta , Piedmont , Jump  ,  and  शिकागो  blues  शैलियाँ  .
World  युद्ध   ii  marked  the   परिवर्तन   इससे   ध्वनिक  to electric  ब्लूज़   और   the  progressive  खोलने  of blues  म्यूज़िक   to   a   wider   दर्शक  , especially  श्वेत   श्रोता  .
In the 1960s and  1970s  , a  संकर   रूप   पुकारा   blues-rock  evolved  .
The  पद  `` the blues  ''  refers  to   the   ``  blue devils  ''  ,  अर्थ   वेदना  and  उदासी  ; an  जल्दी  use  of  the term in this  भाव  is found  in   जार्ज  Colman  's  one-act farce  ब्लू   शैतानों  (  1798  ) .
Though the  उपयोग   of  the phrase  in   african-american  music may  be  older  ,   it   रै  been attested  to  since 1912 , when  हार्ट   wand   's  `` Dallas  ब्लूज़  `` became  the  first copyrighted blues composition  .
In  गीत   the   phrase   is  often used to describe a  उदास  mood  .
A  क्वार्टर  dollar  ,   commonly  shortened to  क्वार्टर   ,   is  a  सिक्का   लायक   1⁄4  of a United States  डालर  or 25  सेंट  .
The quarter has  महरूम  produced since 1796 .
the  choice  of   25¢  as  a   denomination   ,  as opposed  to  20¢ which is more  आम  in other parts of the  संसार  , originated  साथ  the  अभ्यास   of  dividing Spanish  milled   डॉलर   into   आठ  wedge shaped  खण्ड  ( cf. ``  टुकड़े  of eight  ``   )   .
at  one  समय   ``   दो   बिट्स  ``  ,  i.e .  दो   wedges  , each wedge an  आठवीं  , thus a quarter of the Spanish real  ,   थी  a  आम   उपनाम   लिये   a  quarter .
Day of the Dead  (   )  is a Mexican holiday celebrated throughout  मैक्सिको   और   around  the world  in   अन्य   संस्कृतियों  .
The holiday focuses on gatherings of family and friends  to  pray for and  याद  friends and family members  जो  have died .
it  is  विशेषकर   मनाये  in Mexico  ,  where  it   is   a   नेशनल  holiday , and  सब   बैंको   हैं   बंद  .
The celebration takes  प्लेस   on   नवम्बर   1  and 2 ,  in   कनेक्शन  with the Catholic holidays  of   सब   संतो   '  Day and All  souls  '  दिन  .
Traditions connected with the holiday include building private altars honoring the deceased using  शुगर  skulls ,  marigolds  , and  the   पसंदीदा  foods and  पेय  of the  रजि  and  visiting  graves  साथ  these as  उपहार   .
वे  also leave possessions  of  the deceased .
विद्वानों  trace the origins of  the   आधुनिक  Mexican holiday to indigenous observances dating back hundreds of years  और  to an  एज़टेक  festival  समर्पित   to  the goddess  mictecacihuatl   .
the   अवकाश   रै  spread throughout the  संसार   :  In Brazil ,  dia   de  Finados  is   a  public  अवकाश  that many Brazilians  celebrate  by visiting cemeteries and churches .
in   स्पेन   ,   वहीँ  are  त्यौहार   और   parades   ,  and  ,  at  the  end of  the   दिन  , people gather  at   कब्रिस्तान  and  दुवा   लिये  their dead  loved  ones  .
Similar observances  occur   elsewhere  in Europe , and similarly  प्रसंग  celebrations appear  in  many Asian and African  संस्कृतियों  .
ANITA Mk VIII  .
The  अनीता  Mark  सात  and ANITA Mark  viii  calculators  यहूद   शुभारम्भ  simultaneously in late  1961  as the world 's first all-  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  desktop calculators .
Designed and built  by  the Bell Punch Co  .
in Britain , and marketed through its  sumlock  Comptometer  प्रभाग  , they used  वैक्यूम  tubes and cold-cathode switching  tubes  in  उनके   लॉजिक  circuits  और  nixie  tubes  for their numerical displays .
They were the  पहला  of a  श्रेणी  of  डेस्कटॉप   और  hand-held  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  calculators that  the   कम्पनी  was  to  develop and sell under  the   अनीता  name  into  the mid-1970s .
जार्ज   वॉशिंगटन   (  – ,  1799  ) was the  पहला   अध्यक्ष  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  ( 1789–1797 )  ,  the commander-in-chief of the  महाद्वीपीय  Army  दौरान  the American Revolutionary  युद्ध  , and one  of  the  founding  Fathers  of   the   संयुक्त   राज्य   .
he   presided  over  the   सम्मेलन  that  drafted  the Constitution  ,   जिससे  replaced the Articles  of  Confederation and  स्थापित  the position of  अध्यक्ष  .
वॉशिंगटन   थी  elected  अध्यक्ष  as the  सर्वसम्मत  choice of  the   69   निर्वाचक  in  1788   ,  and he served two  शर्तें  in office .
He  oversaw   the   सृष्टि   of  a  दमदार  , well-financed  नेशनल   सरकारी  that maintained  neutrality  in the  युद्धों  raging  in  Europe  ,  suppressed rebellion ,  और  won  स्वीकृति  among Americans  of  all types  .
उसके  leadership style established  अनेक  forms and rituals  of  government that have been  प्रयुक्त   चूंकि   ,   ऐसे  as  using   a   कैबिनेट  system and delivering  an  inaugural address  .
further   ,  the  शांतिपूर्ण  transition from  उसके  presidency to  the   प्रेसिडेंसी  of  जॉन   एडम्स   स्थापित  a  परंपरा   कि  continues  into  the 21st  सदी  .
Washington was  hailed   as   ``  father  of   उसके  country  ``  even during his lifetime  .
वॉशिंगटन  was  born  into  the   प्रांतीय   gentry   of  Colonial Virginia  ;  his  धनवान  planter family owned  तम्बाकू   बागानों   और   स्लेव  .
After both his  पिता   और  older brother died  जब  he was young , Washington  became   personally  and  professionally   संलग्न  to the  शक्तिशाली  William Fairfax  ,  who promoted  उसके  career as  a  surveyor  और  soldier .
Washington  जल्दी  became a senior officer in the  औपनिवेशिक   शक्तियां  during the  पहला   चरण   of   the  French  और  Indian War .
Chosen by  the   दूसरी   महाद्वीपीय  Congress in 1775  to   be   commander-in-chief  of the Continental  फौज  in  the  American Revolution , Washington managed  to  force  the   अंग्रेजों  out  of  Boston  in   1776  , but  थी  defeated  और  almost captured later that  साल  when he  खोया   नई   यॉर्क  City .
बाद   क्रासिंग  the Delaware River  in   the   मुर्दे  of  शीत  , he  पराजित   the   अंग्रेजों  in  दो   लड़ाइयों   ,   retook   नई  Jersey and restored momentum  to  the  patriot   कारण  .
क्युकी   of  his strategy ,  क्रांतिकारी  forces captured  दो  major British  सेना  at Saratoga in 1777 and  yorktown  in 1781 .
Historians laud Washington for his selection and  पर्यवेक्षण  of  उसके   सेनापतियों   ,  encouragement  of   मनोबल   और  ability  to   थाम  together  the   फौज  , coordination with the state governors and state  मिलिशिया   इकाई   ,   संबंध  with Congress and attention  to  supplies  ,  logistics ,  और  training .
In battle ,  however  ,  वॉशिंगटन   थी  repeatedly  outmaneuvered  by British  सेनापतियों  with larger armies  .
After victory  था   महरूम  finalized  in   1783   ,   वॉशिंगटन   resigned  as Commander-in-chief rather  than  seize power , proving his opposition  to   तानाशाही   और  his  प्रतिबद्धता   to  American  republicanism   .
Dissatisfied with  the  weaknesses  of  the Articles of Confederation  ,   in  1787  वॉशिंगटन  presided over the  संवैधानिक   सम्मेलन   कि   drafted  the United  राज्य  Constitution  .
Elected  unanimously   as  the  पहला  President  of  the  संयुक्त  States in  1789   ,  he  attempted   to   लाओ   प्रतिद्वंद्वी  factions  साथ   to  unify the  स्वदेश  .
He supported Alexander  हैमिल्टन   's   कार्यक्रम  to  अदा   बंद  all  राज्य  and  नेशनल  debt  ,  to implement an  प्रभावी   कर  system  और   to  create a national  बैंको   (   despite  opposition from  थामस   जेफरसन   )  .
वॉशिंगटन   proclaimed  the  संयुक्त  States neutral in the  युद्धों  raging in  यूरोपीय  after 1793  .
He  avoided  war with Great Britain and  गारंटी   a   दशक  of  सलाम  and profitable  व्यापार  by securing  the  Jay Treaty in 1795  ,  despite  तीव्र  opposition from  the   jeffersonians  .
Although never  officially  joining the Federalist Party  ,   he  supported  इसके   कार्यक्रम  .
Washington  's   विदाई  Address  थी   an   influential  primer on republican  पुण्य  and  a   चेतावनी  against partisanship  ,   sectionalism  ,  और  involvement in foreign  युद्धों   .
He retired  इससे  the  प्रेसिडेंसी  in 1797  और  returned to  उसके   घर   ,  Mount Vernon ,  और  his domestic life where  he  managed  a   किस्में  of enterprises  .
He  freed   सब  his slaves  by  his final  होगा   .
Washington  था  a vision of a great  और   शक्तिशाली  nation that  होता  be  निर्मित   on   रिपब्लिकन  lines using  संघीय  power  .
he  sought to use  the  national government to  बचाना  liberty , improve infrastructure , open the  पश्चिमी   lands  , promote commerce ,  मिला   a  permanent capital ,  reduce  regional  तनाव  and  प्रचार   a   स्पिरिट  of  अमरीकी  nationalism .
At his  मौत   ,  Washington  थी   eulogized  as  ``   पहला  in war ,  पहला  in  सलाम  ,  और   पहला  in the hearts  of   उसके  countrymen '' by  हेनरी   ली  .
the  Federalists  बना  him  the   प्रतीक   of   उनके  party but for  अनेक   सालो   ,  the  jeffersonians  continued  to  distrust his influence  और  delayed building the Washington Monument  .
As  the  leader  of   the   पहला   कामयाब  revolution against a colonial  साम्राज्य  in world history , Washington became an international icon for liberation and  राष्ट्रवाद  , especially in France and Latin America  .
Fiscal Year 2012  u.S.  Federal Spending – Cash or  बजट   आधार  .
Fiscal  साल  2012 U.S. Federal Receipts  .
The Budget of the  संयुक्त  States Government  प्रायः   begins  as  the   अध्यक्ष  's proposal  to   the   u.S.  Congress  जिससे   अनुशंसा   funding   स्तर  for the next fiscal  साल  , beginning October  1  .
However  ,   कॉंग्रेस   is  the body  जरूरी   by  law to pass a budget annually and  to  submit the budget passed by  दोनो   घरों   to  the President  लिये   हस्ताक्षर  .
congressional  decisions are  governed  by  नियम  and  विधान  regarding  the   संघीय  budget  प्रक्रम   .
बजट  committees set  बिता  limits  लिये  the House and Senate  समितियों  and for  appropriations  subcommittees  ,  which then approve  व्यक्तिगत  appropriations  बिल्स   to  allocate  funding  to  विभिन्न  federal programs .
If Congress fails to  pass  an annual budget (  as   रै  been the  मामला  since 2009  )   ,   a  series of  appropriations   बिल्स  must be passed  as  `` stop  गैप  '' measures .
After Congress  approves   an  appropriations  विधेयक  , it  is  sent  to   the  President , who  may   चिह्न   it   into  law , or  may  veto it (  as  he  होता  a  बजट  when passed by the  कॉंग्रेस  ) .
a  vetoed  विधेयक  is sent back to  कॉंग्रेस  ,  जिससे  can pass  it  into law  साथ  a two-thirds majority  in  each chamber  .
कॉंग्रेस  may also  combine  all  or  some appropriations bills into  an   omnibus   reconciliation  bill .
In addition  ,   the   अध्यक्ष   may  request and the Congress may  pass   supplemental  appropriations bills  or  emergency supplemental appropriations  बिल्स   .
Several government  एजेंसियों  provide  बजट   आंकड़ा  and analysis  .
These include the Government  जवाबदेही  Office  (   gao  ) ,  congressional  Budget Office , the Office of Management  और   बजट  (  omb   )  and  the  U.S.  राजकोष  Department  .
These agencies have  reported  that the federal  सरकारी  is  facing  a series  of  important  financing  challenges  .
In the  short-run  ,  कर  revenues have  अस्वीकृत  significantly due to a  कठोर   मंदी  and  कर   नीति  choices , while  expenditures  have expanded for  युद्धों   ,   बेरोजगारी  insurance and other  सुरक्षा   जाल   बिता  .
In  the  long-run  ,  expenditures related  to   healthcare   कार्यक्रम  such  as  Medicare  और   medicaid  are  प्रक्षिप्त   to  grow  तेज़  than  the   अर्थव्यवस्था  overall as the population matures .
New  गिनी  ( also , Tok  पिसिन   :   niugini   ,  Dutch : Nieuw  गिनी  ,  और  ; historically : Papua ) is  the  world 's second largest island , after Greenland  ,   covering  a  जमीन  area  of   786,000  km2 .
Located  in  the  दक्षिणपश्चिम  Pacific  समंदर  , it lies geographically to  the   ईस्ट   of   the  Malay  द्वीपसमूह  , with which it is  sometimes   शामिल  as  भाग  of  a   वृहद  Indo-Australian Archipelago  .
Geologically  it  is  a  part of  the  same tectonic plate  as  Australia .
When world sea  स्तर  were  कम   ,   the   दो   साझा  shorelines  (   जिससे   अभी   झूठ   100  to  140  metres  नीचे  sea level ) , combining  साथ  lands  अभी  inundated into  the  tectonic continent  of  Sahul  ,   भी   ज्ञात   as   वृहद  Australia .
The two landmasses became  अलग   जब  the area now known as the  टोरेस   जलसन्धि  flooded after  the   समाप्त  of the last  glacial   काल  .
Anthropologically , New Guinea is  माना   भाग   of  Melanesia  .
नीतियां  , the western  हाफ  of the  द्वीप  comprises two Indonesian provinces :  पापुआ   और  West Papua  .
the  eastern half forms  the   मेनलैंड   of   the   देश   of   पापुआ   नई   गिनी  .
the  island  रै   a   जनसांख्यिकी   of  about  7.5  million  ,   साथ   a  very  कम   जनसांख्यिकी  density  of   तभी   8  inh/km2 .
New  गिनी   is  differentiated from its drier , flatter  ,  and less fertile  दक्षिणी  counterpart  ,  Australia  ,  by  इसके   much   उच्चतर  rainfall  और  its active volcanic  भूविज्ञान  ,  साथ  its highest point , Puncak Jaya  ,   reaching  an  उन्नयन  of  4,884  m  (  16,023 ft  )   .
yet   the  two  जमीन   masses  share  a  similar animal fauna  ,  with marsupials , including wallabies and possums  ,  and the egg-laying monotreme , the spiny anteater , or  एकिडना  .
अन्य   than   bats   और  some two  दर्जन   स्वदेशी   कृंतक   genera   ,   वहीँ   हैं   no   pre-human  indigenous  placental  mammals .
सूअर  , several additional species of rats , and  the  ancestor of the New Guinea Singing  श्वान  were introduced with human  colonization   .
The human  उपस्थिति  on the island dates back  at  least  40,000   सालो   to  the oldest  इंसान   migrations   आउट  of Africa .
शोध  indicates  कि   the   हाइलैंड्स  were an early and  स्वतंत्र  center of  कृषि   ,   साथ   प्रमाण   of  irrigation going  वापस   at  least  10,000  years .
क्युकी  of the time depth  of  its inhabitation and its highly fractured  लैंडस्केप  , an  unusually   ऊँची  number  of  languages are  बोला  on the  द्वीप  ,  साथ  some 1,000 languages  (   a   फिगर  higher  than  that  of  most  महाद्वीपों   )  having been  catalogued  out  of  an estimated  world-wide  pre-Columbian total  of  6,000 human dialects .
सबसे  are  वर्गीकृत  as  पापुआई   भाषाएं  , a generally  स्वीकृत  geographical term  जिससे  a minority  of   लेखक   थाम  to be a genetic one .
a  number  of  Austronesian languages are  बोला   on   the   coast  and on offshore  आइलैंड्स   .
in   the  16th  सदी  Spanish  explorers  discovered the island  और   पुकारा  it  नुएवा   गिनी  .
In  हाल  history western New  गिनी  was  शामिल  in the  डच   ईस्ट  Indies colony .
the  Germans annexed the northern  coast  of the eastern half of  the  island as  जर्मनी   नई  Guinea in their pre–World War I effort  to   स्थापित  themselves as a colonial power , whilst  the  south eastern portion was reluctantly  claimed  by  ब्रिटेन   .
Following the Treaty of  versailles  , the  जर्मनी   portion  was awarded to  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   (   जिससे  was  already  governing  the  British claim , named the Territory of  पापुआ   )  as a  लीग  of  राष्ट्र   जनादेश  .
the  eastern half  of  the  द्वीप   थी  granted  स्वतंत्रता   इससे   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  as Papua  नई  Guinea in  1975   .
The western  हाफ   gained  independence from the Dutch in 1961 , but  became  part of Indonesia soon afterwards in  विवादास्पद  circumstances  .
`` The  वैन   buren   लड़कों  '' is the 148th episode of  the  sitcom Seinfeld , and name  of  a fictional  नई  York street gang .
उनके  sign is crossing the  हैंड्स  , with  एक   हाथ   साथ  all the  उंगलियाँ   'up  ' and spread  आउट  .
The other  हाथ  has  सब  but the  अंगूठा  and pointer finger  up   ,  for a  कुल   of   आठ   (  8  )  .
The  गिरोह  is  नामित   लिये  the 8th  अध्यक्ष  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य   ,  Martin  वैन  Buren ( who was the  पहला   अध्यक्ष  from New York )  .
इस   थी  the 14th episode  लिये  the  8th  season .
It aired  on  February  6  ,  1997   .
bevo   चिह्न
bevo  was  a  non-alcoholic malt beverage  ,   or  near  बियर  ,  brewed  in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   by   the  Anheuser-Busch company  शुरूआत   in  the  जल्दी  20th century .
Bevo  enjoyed  its  महानतम   कामयाबी  during the time  of  prohibition , when beer ,  वाइन   और  distilled liquors  ,   यहूद  made  illegal  for  तेरह   सालो  .
the   anheuser-busch   कम्पनी  started brewing  bevo   जब  alcoholic beverages  यहूद   निषिद्ध  in 1916  by  the United States armed  शक्तियां  .
Production rose greatly  साथ  national prohibition  in   1919  ,  और   bevo   थी  by far the  सबसे   लोकप्रिय  of the many `` cereal beverages '' or  ``  near  beers  '' of the time  .
at  the peak of its popularity in  the   जल्दी   1920s  , more  than  five  लाख   मामले  of Bevo were  बेची  annually  .
renard   साथ  a mug of Bevo ,  चित्रित  in  टेरा  cotta  on   the   आंतरिक   दीवारें  of the Bevo  भवन  , St. Louis
लेबल्स  on  the  bottles  billed  it  as   ``  Bevo  the  Beverage  ''  .
the   नाम  `` Bevo '' was coined from  the   शब्द   ``  beverage ''  और  the  स्लावी   भाषा  word for  बियर   ``  pivo '' ,  और  was  सुनाया  `` Bee-vo '' .
Some Bevo  विज्ञापन  featured the  अक्षर  `` Renard  the   फॉक्स  `` ( based  on  the protagonist  of  a medieval  फ्रेंच   folk-tale  )  ,  and promotional mugs  साथ   इस  character were  manufactured   .
In  1930   anheuser-busch   निर्मित  a series of boat-bodied cars in its  st.  Louis  दुकानें  called the ``  bevo   नौकाएँ   ''  which  यहूद   प्रयुक्त  for  प्रमोशन  .
सात  are believed  to  have been  निर्मित  on Pierce-Arrow 8-cylinder chassis while one surviving example was based  upon  1930 Cadillac 353 V8  .
बिलबोर्ड  advertising  bevo   in  Trenton  ,  New Jersey ,  1917
A contemporary advertisement  पढ़ा  `` Cooling and invigorating ,  bevo   the  Beverage  .
अनुक्रम   by  the case from your  पंसारी   ,   druggist  , or dealer . ''
The paper label on  the  back of  the   बोतल  read `` The  all-year-round  Soft  पेय  .
appetizing  -  healthful  - Nutritious  -  Refreshing  .
मिल्क  or water may contain  जीवाणु   .
BEVO never does  .  ''
Bevo  became  part of  the  popular  संस्कृति  of the  समय  , and  is  mentioned in various popular songs and  vaudeville  skits of the era .
This led  to  secondary slang uses  of  the  शब्द  ;  लिये   उदाहरण   ,  in  अमरीकी  military  कठबोली  a  यंग  and inexperienced officer was  पुकारा   a  ``  bevo  ''  .
The University  of  Texas named its mascot  ``  Bevo ''  ,  a name which  रै  stuck to this  दिन  .
Irving Berlin included a  paean  to  the  drink , ``  तुम   ca  n't Stay Up on Bevo  ''  ,  in   उसके  1917 army revue , Yip Yip  yaphank   .
in   the  late 1920s smuggled  बूटलेग  beer and  liquor   as   खूब  as  ``   homebrew  `` , cut into Bevo  's   marketshare   .
With sales  flattening  to 100,000  मामले   by  1929  ,   anheuser-busch  stopped production .
The  bevo   मिल  , St. Louis , in 2008
the  Bevo building  ,   साथ  the Renard  अक्षर  prominently displayed at the corners , still  operates  as a bottling  सुविधा  at  उनके  main  ब्रेवरी  in St. Louis , Missouri  .
The  लैंडमार्क   bevo   मिल  , constructed by August Anheuser Busch , Sr. in  1917   .
It was closed  in   2009  , but it reopened  in   अक्तूबर   2009  under  नई   स्वामी   .
bevo   is  also mentioned in  the  short story `` The Killers  ``   by  Ernest Hemingway ; as well as  in   babbitt  by  sinclair  Lewis  .
Mylanta is  an  over the  काउंटर  medication used  लिये   the  treatment  of  acid reflux ,  heartburn  , and gastroesophageal reflux disease (  भी   ज्ञात   as   गर्ड  )  .
Foremilk and  hindmilk  samples of  इंसान  breast milk
a  glass of pasteurized cow milk
Milk is  a  white  द्रव   उत्पादित   by  the mammary glands of mammals .
It is  the   प्राथमिक  source of nutrition  लिये   यंग   स्तनधारियों  before  वे   हैं  able to  डाइजेस्ट  other types of  खाना  .
Early- lactation milk  contains  colostrum , which  carries   the   माँ   's  antibodies  to  the  baby   और  can  reduce  the risk  of   अनेक   रोगों   in  the  baby   .
It  भी  contains many other nutrients .
as   an   agricultural  product  ,  milk is extracted from mammals and used  as  food for  इंसानो  .
Worldwide  ,   दुग्ध  farms produced about  730   लाख  tonnes of  मिल्क  in  2011  .
India  is  the  संसार   's  largest  निर्माता  and consumer of  मिल्क   ,  yet  neither   निर्यात  nor imports milk .
New  जीलैंड   ,  the European Union  's   27  member states  ,   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  ,  और   the  United States are the world 's  largest   निर्यातक   of  milk  और  milk  उत्पाद  .
China and Russia are  the   संसार   's  largest importers of  मिल्क   और  milk products .
throughout  the  संसार  , there  हैं  more than  6   अरब  consumers  of  milk and milk  उत्पाद  .
over   750  million  लोगों  live within  दुग्ध   खेती  households .
मिल्क   is  a key contributor to improving  पोषण  and  खाना   सुरक्षा   विशेषकर  in  विकासशील   देशों  .
Improvements in  पशुधन   और  dairy  प्रौद्योगिकी   प्रस्ताव  significant  वादा   in  reducing  गरीबी   और  malnutrition  in  the world .
Motorcycle  स्पीडवे   ,  usually referred  to  as  स्पीडवे  , is  a   मोटरसाइकिल   खेल   involving  four  और  sometimes  up   to  six riders competing over four  anti-clockwise  laps  of  an oval  सर्किट  .
स्पीडवे  motorcycles use  तभी   एक  gear and  have   no  brakes and racing takes place on a flat oval  track   प्रायः  consisting of dirt  or  loosely  packed  shale  .
प्रतिस्पर्धी  use  इस  surface to slide their machines  बगलों  , powersliding or  broadsiding   into  the bends .
on  the straight  भाग  of  the   track  the motorcycles  पहुँचें   speeds  of up .
the  exact origins of  the   खेल   हैं   अनजान   लकिन   वहीँ   is   प्रमाण  of  a  type of  स्पीडवे   रेसिंग  being  practised   in  the USA before  the  First  संसार  War and in Australia  in  the late 1910s  और  early  1920s   .
वहीँ  are now both  घरेलू  and  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  competitions in  a   क्रमांक   of  countries including  the  Speedway  संसार  Cup  whilst   the   उच्चतम  overall scoring individual in  the  Speedway Grand  प्रिक्स  events is  सुनाया   the  world  चैंपियन  .
Speedway is popular in  सेंट्रल  and northern Europe and  to   a  lesser  extent  in Australia  और   उत्तर   अमेरिका   .
A variant of  track  racing ,  स्पीडवे  is administered internationally by the  fédération   internationale  de  motocyclisme  (  fim  )  .
Domestic speedway events are regulated  by  FIM  संबद्ध   नेशनल  motor  खेल  federations .
Vitamin  d   is   a   समूह  of fat-soluble secosteroids  जिम्मेदार  for intestinal absorption of  कैल्सियम  and phosphate  .
In humans , the most important  सम्बन्धित   यौगिकों  of  विटामिन  D are vitamin D2 and vitamin  d3  .
cholecalciferol  ( vitamin D3 ) and  ergocalciferol  ( vitamin  d2   )  are  अद्वितीय  as they constitute what we know as vitamin D and can  be   ingested  from the  आहार  and/or supplements .
The body can  भी  synthesize vitamin D (  इससे   कोलेस्ट्रॉल  ) when sun  एक्सपोज़र  is adequate ( hence its nickname  ,  the  ``  sunshine  विटामिन   ''   )  .
हालांकि  vitamin  d   is  commonly called a  विटामिन  ,  it  is not  दरअसल   an   अनिवार्य   dietary  vitamin  in   the  strict sense  ,   as  it can  be   synthesized   in  adequate amounts  by  most  स्तनधारियों   उजागर   to   धूप  .
( Cats and dogs can not  synthesize  vitamin D efficiently  और   जरूर  receive  it   in   उनके  diet . )
An organic chemical  यौगिक   (  or related set of compounds  )  is  तभी  scientifically called a  विटामिन  when  it   can   नहीं  be  synthesized   in  sufficient quantities by an organism , and  जरूर  be obtained  इससे  their diet  .
However  ,   as   साथ   अन्य  compounds commonly called vitamins  ,  vitamin D was  खोजा  in an  प्रयत्न   to  find  the   dietary  substance that  थी   lacking  in  a   बीमारी  , namely ,  rickets   ,  the childhood form of osteomalacia .
additionally  , like other compounds called  विटामिन   ,  in the developed  संसार  vitamin D  is  added to  स्टेपल  foods , such as milk , to avoid  बीमारी  due to deficiency .
Measures  of   सीरम  levels  प्रतिबिंबित  endogenous  संश्लेषण  from  एक्सपोज़र  to sunlight as  खूब   as  intake from the diet , and it is believed that synthesis may  योगदान   generally  to the maintenance of  पर्याप्त  serum  एकाग्रता  .
The evidence indicates that the  संश्लेषण  of  विटामिन  D from sun exposure works  in  a  प्रतिक्रिया   लूप   कि  prevents toxicity but ,  क्युकी  of uncertainty about the  कर्कट  risk from sunlight , no  सुझाव   हैं  issued  by  the Institute  of   आयुर्विज्ञान  ,  यूएसए  ,  लिये  the amount of sun  एक्सपोज़र   जरूरी   to   मिलें   विटामिन  D requirements .
Accordingly ,  the   dietary   सन्दर्भ  Intakes  लिये   विटामिन  D assume that no  संश्लेषण  occurs and that all  of  a  व्यक्ति  's vitamin D is from  उनके   आहार   ,  although that  होगा   rarely   occur  in  अभ्यास   .
In the liver  विटामिन  D is converted to calcidiol  ,  which  is  also known as  calcifediol  (  इन   )   ,  25-hydroxycholecalciferol  ,  or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25  (   oh  )  d   ;   और   जिससे  is  the  specific  विटामिन   d  metabolite that is measured in  सीरम  to  determine  a person 's  विटामिन  D  औकात   .
भाग  of the calcidiol  is  converted by  the  kidneys to calcitriol  ,  the  biologically  active  रूप   of   विटामिन  D. Calcitriol circulates  as   a   हार्मोन  in  the  blood  ,  regulating the  विशेषज्ञता  of calcium and  फास्फेट   in   the   bloodstream   और   promoting   the  healthy growth and remodeling of  अस्थि  .
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol  बाहर  of the  गुर्दे  for other  उद्देश्य  , such as the proliferation  ,  differentiation  और  apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol  भी  affects neuromuscular  फलन   और  inflammation .
Beyond its use to prevent  osteomalacia   or  rickets ,  the   प्रमाण   लिये   अन्य  health effects  of  vitamin  d   supplementation  in  the  general  जनसांख्यिकी   is  inconsistent  .
the  best evidence  of  benefit is for  अस्थि  health  और   a  decrease  in  mortality in  बुजुर्ग  women .
The Duramax is a  सामान्य   मोटर्स   डीज़ल  engine  परिवार  for  light-  and  मीडियम  duty trucks , designed by Isuzu  .
The 6.6-liter Duramax  is   उत्पादित  by  dmax  , a joint venture  between   gm   और  Isuzu  in  Moraine  ,  Ohio .
इस   इंजन  was initially  संस्थापित  in 2001 model year  चेवी  and  जीएमसी  trucks and has been an option since  तब  in pickups ,  वैन  , and medium-duty  ट्रक  .
In 2006 , production  at  Moraine was  reportedly   सीमित  to approximately 200,000  इंजन   प्रति   साल  .
on  May  9   ,   2007  , DMAX announced the production of  the   1,000,000th  Duramax V-8  डीज़ल  at its Moraine facility .
Duramax  lml
Balto  .
is   भी  a  परंपरागत   लिखा  abbreviation for Baltimore  ,  Maryland .
प्रतिमा  of Balto  in   सेंट्रल  Park ( New York  नगर  )
Balto  (   1919  –  कूच  14 , 1933 )  थी   a  Siberian Husky sled dog who  led   उसके   टोली   on  the final leg  of   the  1925 serum run  to  Nome  ,  in which diphtheria  antitoxin  was transported from  anchorage  ,  अलास्का  , to  nenana  ,  अलास्का   ,   by   ट्रैन  and then to Nome  by   श्वान  sled  to   कॉम्बैट  an outbreak  of  the disease .
The run is commemorated by the annual  iditarod  Trail Sled Dog Race .
Balto was named  बाद   the  Sami  एक्सप्लोरर  Samuel Balto .
Balto died  at  the age  of   14   .
Professor Stephen  हॉकिंग  ,  ज्ञात   लिये  being  a  theoretical physicist  ,  has appeared in  अनेक   works  of  लोकप्रिय   संस्कृति  .
The  निसान   उच्चिष्ट   is   a  mid-size  /  entry-level  लक्ज़री   car  manufactured by  निसान   ,  marketed as  the   ``  four-door sports car  ''  .
The origins of  the   उच्चिष्ट  began in July 1976 as  the  Datsun  810  ,  an   upscale  six-cylinder version of the  bluebird   ,  and was spun  into  its  अपना  line  in  1981  ,   having  been made continuously since then .
The  ``   उच्चिष्ट  '' name  थी  applied gradually  ,   शुरूआत  in 1981 .
सबसे  pre-2004  maximas   यहूद  built in  oppama  , Japan , until the current North American Maximas started being assembled  in  Smyrna , Tennessee .
The  ``  Maxima  ''   रै   भी  been applied to Cefiros and  चलेगा  in various markets .
propolis  as  छत्ता  sealing
Propolis is a resinous  मिश्रण  that honey bees collect from  पेड़  buds , sap flows , or  अन्य  botanical sources  .
It  is   प्रयुक्त   as  a sealant for unwanted open spaces in  the   छत्ता  .
propolis   is   प्रयुक्त  for small gaps ( approximately or  कम  ) , while larger  स्पेसेस  are usually  भर  with beeswax .
Its color varies depending  on  its botanical source , the most  आम  being dark brown .
Propolis is sticky at  और  above  रूम   तापमान   ,   .
at  lower  temperatures   ,  it becomes  मुश्किल  and  बहुत   भंगुर  .
स्टीवन   टायलर  (  born  Steven  विक्टर  Tallarico  ;  March 26 , 1948  )  is an  अमरीकी   सिंगर  , songwriter ,  और  multi-instrumentalist , best known as the frontman and  सीसे  singer of the  बोस्टन  -based rock band Aerosmith  ,  in which he  भी   plays  the harmonica  ,  and occasional piano  और   percussion  .
He  is   ज्ञात  as  the  `` Demon of Screamin  '  ''  due   to   उसके  high  चिल्लाती  and his  चौड़ी  vocal  दायरा  .
He  is  also  ज्ञात  for his  on-stage  acrobatics .
दौरान  his  high-energy  performances , he  प्रायः   पोशाक  in bright  ,   रंगीन   outfits  with his  ट्रेडमार्क  scarves hanging from his microphone stand  .
in   the  1970s ,  टायलर  rose to  prominence  as the  frontman   of  Aerosmith  ,  which released such milestone  मुश्किल   चट्टान   एल्बम   as  Toys in the Attic and Rocks .
In the  लेट   1970s  and early  1980s   ,   टायलर   था  a  भारी  drug and  दारू   व्यसन  ,  और  the band  's  popularity  waned   .
He completed drug rehabilitation in  1986   और  subsequently  कायम  sobriety for  over  20 years  ,  but had a relapse  साथ  prescription painkillers  in   the  late 2000s  ,  for  जिससे   he   सफलतापूर्वक   प्राप्त   उपचार   in  2009  .
बाद   एरोस्मिथ  launched a remarkable  वापसी   in   the  late  1980s  and early  1990s   साथ   the  albums Permanent Vacation , Pump  ,   और   मिलेंगी   a  Grip  ,  Tyler became a household  नाम  and has remained  a  relevant rock  प्रतीक  .
as  a result ,  he  has since  embarked  on  अनेक   सोलो  endeavors  सहित   अतिथि  appearances on other artists  '   म्यूज़िक   ,  film and TV roles (  सहित   as   a  judge on American Idol  )   ,   authoring  a bestselling  किताब  ,  और  solo work  (  including a Top  40   hit   सिंगल   in  2011 ) .
however  ,  he   रै  continued to record  म्यूज़िक  and  perform  with Aerosmith ,  बाद  more  than   43  years in  the   बैंड   .
The band  's  latest  एल्बम  , Music  इससे   another  Dimension  !
,   थी   released  on November  6   ,  2012  .
टायलर   is  included among Rolling Stones 100 Greatest Singers .
he  was  भी  ranked  3rd   on  Hit  parader  's Top  100  Metal Vocalists of  सब   समय  .
in   2001  he was inducted  into   the  Rock  और  Roll Hall of Fame with  एरोस्मिथ  , and he was the presenter  जब   ac/dc   थी  inducted  into  the  हॉल  of Fame  in   2003  .
In  2013  , Tyler and  उसके   songwriting  partner  जो  Perry  होगा  be recipients of the  ascap   संस्थापकों  Award  और   होगा   भी   be   inducted   into   the   songwriters  Hall of Fame .
The  जिगर   produces  urea  in   the   यूरिया  cycle  as  a  बर्बाद   उत्पाद  of  the  digestion of  प्रोटीन  .
Normal  इंसान  adult blood should contain between  7  to 21 mg of  यूरिया   नाइट्रोजन  per 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/  dl   )  of blood .
Individual laboratories may have  अलग  reference  सीमाएँ  , and  इस  is because the procedure  may  vary .
Wayne  fontes   (  born  फ़रवरी   2   ,   1940   )  is  a   पूर्व  American  फ़ुटबॉल   कोच   और  college and professional  फ़ुटबॉल   खिलाड़ी  who  थी  the head coach of the NFL  's  Detroit  शेर  from  1988  to  1996  .
His 67 wins and 71  नुकसान   हैं  each the most  लिये  a head coach  in  team  इतिहास   .
the  Jews ( ISO  259-3  Israeli  उच्चारण  ) , also  ज्ञात  as the  यहूदी   लोगों   ,  are a nation  और  an ethnoreligious  समूह  , originating in the Israelites or Hebrews of  the  Ancient  निकट  East .
The Jewish  नस्ल  , nationality  ,   और  religion  हैं  strongly  interrelated   ,  as  judaism  is  the  traditional  आस्था  of the Jewish  स्वदेश   .
converts   to  Judaism  ,  whose status as  यहूदियों   भीतर   the  Jewish ethnos is  बराबर  to  those   born   into   it  ,  have   महरूम  absorbed into the Jewish people throughout the  सहस्राब्दियों  .
in   यहूदी  tradition , Jewish  ancestry  is  traced  to  the   biblical  patriarchs  अब्राहम  , Isaac and Jacob in  the   दूसरी   मिलेनियम  BCE .
The  आधुनिक  State  of  Israel  थी  established as  a  Jewish nation-state  ,  and  defines  itself as such in  इसके   मौलिक  Laws  .
Its Law  of  Return  अनुदान   the  right  of  citizenship to any  jew  who requests it .
Israel is the  तभी  country  जहाँ  Jews  हैं  a majority of the  जनसांख्यिकी  .
Jews also enjoyed political autonomy  twice   पहले  in ancient history .
The  पहला   of  these periods  lasted   इससे  1350  to  586 BCE ,  और  encompassed  the   अवधि   of   the  Judges ,  the   संयुक्त  Monarchy , and the Divided  साम्राज्य  of the  kingdoms  of Israel and  यहूदा  ,  समाप्ति  with  the   विनाश   of  the First  टेम्पल  .
The second was the period of the  hasmonean  Kingdom spanning  इससे   140  to 37 BCE .
Since the  विनाश  of  the  First  टेम्पल  , most Jews  have   जिया   in   diaspora  .
A minority  in  every  देश   in  which  वे  live  (   मगर  Israel )  ,  they have frequently experienced persecution throughout history ,  resulting   in  a  जनसांख्यिकी   कि  has  fluctuated  both in  संख्याएँ  and distribution over the centuries  .
The world  यहूदी  population  पहुँचे   a  peak of 15 million prior to  the  Second  संसार  War  ,  but  छह  million Jews  यहूद   मारे   in   the   holocaust   .
Since then  the  population has risen  again   और   ,  was estimated at  13.4  million  by  the North American  यहूदी   आंकड़ा  Bank ,  or   कम  than 0.2 %  of  the total world  जनसांख्यिकी  (  roughly  one in every  514   लोगों  ) .
According to this report , about 42.5  %  of  सब  Jews reside  in  Israel ( 5.7  लाख   )  , and 39.3  %   in   the   संयुक्त  States  (   5.3   लाख  ) , with most of the remainder  जीना  in Europe ( 1.5  लाख  ) and Canada  (  0.4 million )  .
These numbers  शामिल  all  those   जो  consider themselves  यहूदियों   ,   whether   or  not  वे  are affiliated  साथ  a  यहूदी   संगठन  .
the  total  संसार   यहूदी  population , however  ,   is  difficult to  माप  .
in  addition to issues  साथ  census  methodology  , there are  halakhic  disputes  regarding   जो   is   a  Jew  और  secular , political , and ancestral identification factors that may affect the figure considerably .
Corpus Christi procession .
आयल  on  कैनवास   by   कार्ल  Emil Doepler  .
कॉर्पस  Domini  redirects   यहाँ  .
लिये  other uses see  कॉर्पस  Domini  (  disambiguation )
the   feast  of Corpus Christi ( Latin for Body of Christ ) ,  भी  known as Corpus Domini  ,   is  a  लैटिन  Rite liturgical solemnity celebrating the  परंपरा  and  विश्वास  in  the  body and blood  of   यीशु  Christ  और  his Real Presence in the Eucharist .
it   emphasizes  the  आनन्द  of  the  institution of the Eucharist , which was  observed  on Holy  गुरुवार  in the  somber  atmosphere  of   the  nearness of Good Friday .
in  the present  रोमन   missal  ,  the  feast is designated  the   solemnity   of   the  Most Holy  देह   और  Blood of Christ  .
it  is also  मनाये   in  some Anglican  ,   लूथरन  ,  और  Old Catholic Churches that hold similar beliefs  regarding  the Real Presence  .
The feast  is  liturgically celebrated  on   the  Thursday after  ट्रिनिटी  Sunday or  ,   ``  where the Solemnity of  the  Most  पावन  Body and  रक्त  of Christ is not  a  Holy Day of Obligation , it is assigned to the Sunday after the Most Holy Trinity  as  its proper  दिन   ''   .
At  the  end of Holy Mass , there is  प्रायः  a procession of the  धन्य  Sacrament  ,   generally  displayed  in   a   monstrance  .
The  बारात  is  followed   by   सुनाकर  of the Blessed  sacrament   .
A notable Eucharistic  बारात  is  कि  presided over by the Pope each  साल   in   रोम  , where it begins at the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran and  makes  its way to  the  Basilica of Saint Mary  प्रमुख   ,  where  it  concludes  साथ   सुनाकर  .
c-reactive  protein  (   सीआरपी  ) is a protein found in the  रक्त   ,  the  स्तर   of  which rise in  जवाब  to inflammation ( i.e .  c-reactive   प्रोटीन   is  an  acute-phase   प्रोटीन   )   .
Its physiological  भूमिका   is  to  bind   to  phosphocholine  expressed   on  the  सतह  of dead or  मरना   कोशिकाएं  (  और  some  प्रकार  of bacteria ) in  अनुक्रम  to  activate  the complement  प्रणाली   via   the   c1q   जटिल  .
CRP is  synthesized  by the liver in  जवाब  to factors released  by   macrophages  and  मोटे  cells ( adipocytes  )   .
it   is  a member  of  the pentraxin family  of  proteins .
It is  नहीं  related to C-peptide  or  protein C  .
c-reactive   प्रोटीन  was  the  first pattern recognition receptor  (  PRR ) to be  पहचाना   .
The  प्रारंभ  of  the   व्यवस्थित   यूरोपीय  colonization of the  americas  is  typically  dated to  1492  , when a Spanish  expedition   headed   by   क्रिस्टोफर  Columbus sailed for  इण्डिया  to open  व्यापार  but  inadvertently   खोजा  the Americas  .
European  conquest   ,   large-scale  exploration and  colonization  soon  followed  .
Seeing  कि  Europe was  preoccupied   साथ   अनेक  internal  युद्धों  and was slowly recovering  इससे   the  many  मौतों   कि  the  bubonic   प्लेग  caused , the  रैपिड   विस्तार  at which it grew  in  wealth and power was  unforeseeable  in the early 1400s  .
The  पहला  expeditions occurred along the Caribbean coasts on  the  islands of  हिस्पानिओला  , Puerto Rico  और  Cuba  ,   और   बाद  1500 extended into  the  interiors of  दोनो  North  और  South  अमेरिका  .
in   1497   ,   sailing   इससे  the north on behalf  of  England  ,   जॉन   cabot   उतरा   on   the  North American  coast   ,   और   a   साल   बाद  , Columbus  's   तीसरा  voyage  पहुँचे  the  दक्षिण  American  coast   .
फ़्रांस  founded colonies  in  much of eastern  उत्तर   अमेरिका  , on  a  number of Caribbean  आइलैंड्स  , and in South America .
Portugal  colonized  Brazil .
आखिरकार   ,  the entire  पश्चिमी   गोलार्ध  came under  the  control of European governments , leading to profound changes to its landscape  ,  population , and  संयंत्र   और  animal life .
in  the 19th century alone  over   50  million  लोगों  left  यूरोपीय   लिये  the  americas   .
The  post-1492   era   is  known as  the  period of the Columbian Exchange .
Keith  रिचर्ड्स  (  born  18 December  1943   )   is  an English musician , singer-songwriter  और   संस्थापक   सदस्य   of  the English rock  बैंड  the Rolling  पत्थरों  .
Rolling Stone  पत्रिका   कहा  Richards had created  ``   चट्टान  's  महानतम  single  देह   of  riffs ''  ,  ranking him 4th on  इसके   सूची  of  100   बेहतरीन  guitarists .
चौदह  songs  रिचर्ड्स  wrote with the Rolling Stones  '  lead vocalist Mick Jagger are listed among  रोलिंग  Stone magazine  's  ``  500  Greatest  गीतों  of All Time `` .
Richards  '   सुर्खी   लिये   अवैध   ड्रग   उपयोग  stems  in  part from  अनेक   ड्रग  busts  दौरान   the  late  1960s   और  1970s  और  his candour regarding  उसके   व्यसन   to  and  eventual  abstinence from  हेरोइन   .
टेस्टोस्टेरोन  is  a   स्टेरॉयड   हार्मोन  from the  androgen   समूह  and is found in  स्तनधारियों  , reptiles  ,  birds , and  अन्य   vertebrates  .
in  mammals , testosterone  is  primarily secreted in  the   अंडकोष  of males and  the  ovaries of females , although small amounts are also  स्रावित  by  the   अधिवृक्क  glands  .
It is  the  principal male sex hormone  और   an  anabolic steroid  .
in   मेन   ,  testosterone plays a  कुंजी   भूमिका   in  the development  of  male reproductive tissues such as  the  testis and  प्रोस्टेट  as  खूब   as  promoting secondary  यौन   विशेषताएँ  such as increased muscle , bone mass , and  the  growth of body  बाल  .
In addition  ,  testosterone  is  essential for health and  well-being  as well  as   the   रोकथाम  of  ऑस्टियोपोरोसिस   .
On  औसत  ,  in   वयस्क   इंसान   males  , the  प्लाज्मा   विशेषज्ञता   of  testosterone is about 7–8 times  as   ग्रेट   as  the concentration  in  adult human  महिलाओं   '   प्लाज्मा   ,   लकिन  as the metabolic consumption  of  testosterone in males is greater  ,   the  daily production  is  about  20  times greater in men .
Females also are more  संवेदनशील  to  the  hormone  .
टेस्टोस्टेरोन   is   observed  in  सबसे  vertebrates .
Fish  मेक   a   थोड़ा   अलग   रूप   पुकारा   11-ketotestosterone  .
Its counterpart in  कीट  is ecdysone .
These  सर्वव्यापी  steroids suggest  कि  sex hormones  have   an   प्राचीन  evolutionary  इतिहास  .
क्लस्टर  sampling  is   a  sampling technique used  जब   ``   प्राकृतिक  '' but relatively homogeneous groupings  हैं  evident  in   a   सांख्यिकीय  population  .
it   is   प्रायः   प्रयुक्त   in   विपणन   शोध   .
in  this technique  ,   the   कुल  population is  विभाजित  into  ये  groups (  or   क्लस्टर   )  and a simple random sample of  the  groups is selected .
Then the required information is collected from  a  simple  यादृच्छिक  sample of  the   तत्व  within each selected  समूह   .
This may  be  done for  प्रत्येक  element  in   ये  groups  or  a  subsample   of  elements  may   be   चयनित  within each of these groups .
a  common  प्रेरणा  for  क्लस्टर  sampling  is  to reduce the total number of interviews  और   लागत  given  the  desired accuracy .
Assuming  a  fixed sample size  ,  the technique gives  अधिक  accurate  परिणाम   जब  most of the variation  in   the  population  is  within the groups , not between them .
jamestown   is  a town in Guilford  काउंटी   ,  North Carolina ,  संयुक्त  States  ,   और   is   a  suburb of  the  nearby cities of  greensboro   और   ऊँची  Point .
The  जनसांख्यिकी   थी  3,382 at  the  2010 census  .
नताली  Portman ( born  नताली   hershlag  ; ; June  9   ,  1981 ) is an  अभिनेत्री  and  मॉडल  with  डुअल  American  और  Israeli  नागरिकता  .
Her first role was as  an  orphan taken in by a  हिटमैन  in  the   1994   कार्रवाई  film  ,  but mainstream success came when she  थी  cast as Padmé Amidala  in   the  Star Wars  प्रीक्वेल   त्रयी   (  released in 1999 , 2002  और  2005  )  .
in  1999  ,  she enrolled at Harvard  विश्वविद्यालयों  to study psychology while still  working  as  an  actress .
वो  completed  उसके  bachelor 's degree in 2003 .
In  2001   ,   पोर्टमैन   खोली   in  New York City  's   पब्लिक   थिएटर  production  of  Anton Chekhov 's  the   सीगल  .
in  2005  ,  Portman received a  नामांकन   लिये   the  Academy  पुरस्कार  for Best  supporting  Actress and won  the  Golden  ग्लोब  Award for Best Supporting Actress  -   गति   चित्र  for  the  drama Closer .
She  जीती  a Constellation  पुरस्कार  for Best Female  प्रदर्शन  and a Saturn Award for Best Actress for her starring role  in  V for Vendetta ( 2006 ) .
She  निभाई   अग्रणी  roles in the  ऐतिहासिक   dramas   गोया  's  भूत  (  2006  )  और   the  Other Boleyn Girl (  2008  )  .
in   may  2008 , she  परोसा  as the youngest member of the 61st Annual Cannes Film Festival jury .
पोर्टमैन  's directorial debut ,  संध्या  ,  खोली  the 65th  वेनिस   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Film Festival 's shorts  प्रतियोगिता  in  2008   .
Portman directed  a   खण्ड  of the  सामूहिक   फिल्मी  New York  ,  I  प्रेम   तुम  .
In 2011  ,  Portman won the  अकादमी  Award , the  सुनहरी   ग्लोब  Award  ,   the   bafta  Award , the  स्क्रीन  Actors Guild Award ,  और   the  Independent Spirit Award  लिये  her  सीसे  performance as Nina  sayers   in   ब्लैक  Swan  .
Copper is a chemical element with  the   प्रतीक   cu   (  from ) and atomic number  29   .
it  is a ductile metal with very  ऊँची  thermal and electrical  चालकता  .
Pure copper is  नरम   और   malleable  ;  a   freshly   उजागर  surface  रै   a  reddish-orange  रंग  .
it   is   प्रयुक्त  as  a  conductor  of   ऊष्मा  and electricity ,  a   भवन  material  ,  and a constituent of  विभिन्न  metal alloys  .
The  मेटल   और  its  alloys   have  been used for  हज़ारों  of years  .
in   the  Roman  era  , copper was principally mined  on  Cyprus , hence the origin of  the   नाम  of the metal as сyprium (  मेटल   of  Cyprus ) , later shortened to  сuprum  .
इसके  compounds are commonly  encountered   as   तांबे   (  II  )  salts , which  प्रायः  impart  ब्लू  or green  रंगों  to minerals  ऐसे   as  azurite and turquoise and  have  been  widely   प्रयुक्त   historically  as pigments .
architectural   structures  built  साथ   तांबे  corrode to give green verdigris  (  or  patina   )   .
सजावटी   आर्ट   prominently  features copper  ,   दोनो   by  itself  और   as  part of pigments  .
तांबे   is  essential  to  all living organisms as  a  trace  dietary   खनिज   क्युकी  it is  a  key  constituent  of  the  respiratory  एंजाइम  complex  cytochrome  c  oxidase  .
in  molluscs and crustacea copper  is  a constituent  of  the  रक्त  pigment  hemocyanin  , which  is   replaced  by the iron-complexed  हीमोग्लोबिन  in fish  और  other  vertebrates   .
the  main  क्षेत्रों  where copper is  मिला  in vertebrates  हैं  liver ,  मांसपेशी   और   अस्थि  .
In sufficient concentration , copper  यौगिकों   हैं   जहरीला  to  उच्चतर  organisms and are  प्रयुक्त   as  bacteriostatic substances , fungicides , and  लकडी  preservatives  .
The major  पेशेवर  sports  लीग   ,  or  बस  major  लीग   ,  in the  संयुक्त  States and  कनाडा  are  the   उच्चतम   पेशेवर  competitions  of  team  खेल   in  the  दो   देशों   .
Although individual sports such as golf ,  टेनिस  ,  और  auto racing are  भी   बहुत  popular , the  पद  is usually  सीमित  to  टोली  sports .
The term `` major  लीग   ''  was  पहला  used in  1921  in reference to  प्रमुख  League Baseball ( MLB  )   ,  the  शीर्ष   स्तर   of  professional American baseball  .
आज  , the major northern North America professional team sports leagues  हैं  Major League  बेसबॉल   (  MLB ) ,  the  National Basketball Association ( NBA  )  ,  the   नेशनल   फ़ुटबॉल   लीग  (  एनएफएल   )  ,  और   the  National Hockey  लीग   (   एनएचएल   )  .
Other notable leagues include Major  लीग  Soccer  (   mls   )  , the  कनाडाई  Football League (  cfl   )   ,  the  एरिना  Football League , Major League  lacrosse  , the National  lacrosse  League and the  महिलाओं   's   नेशनल  Basketball Association .
the   एनएफएल  ,  एमएलबी  , NBA  ,   और   एनएचएल   हैं  commonly referred  to  as  the   बिग   चार   .
Each of these is the richest  पेशेवर  club competition in  इसके   खेल   विश्वव्यापी  .
the  best  खिलाड़ी  can  become   सांस्कृतिक   प्रतीक   in   दोनो  countries and elsewhere  in  the  संसार  ,  क्युकी  the  लीग   आनंद  a  significant  place in popular  संस्कृति  in the US and Canada .
the  NFL has 32  टीमों  , and  the  others have  30   प्रत्येक  .
the  vast majority  of  major  लीग  teams are concentrated  in  the  सबसे  populous  महानगर  areas  of  the United States  .
Baseball  ,   फ़ुटबॉल  , hockey  ,   और   सॉकर   have  had professional  लीग  for  over   100  years  ;   जल्दी   लीग  such as the National Association  ,  Ohio League , and National Hockey Association  formed  the  आधार  of the modern MLB  ,   एनएफएल  and  एनएचएल  respectively  .
Soccer was  पहला   professionalized   in  1894 , but leagues suffered  greatly   इससे  lack  of   स्थिरता  and seldom lasted more than a decade .
सॉकर  's  महानतम  successes were in the form  of  the  अमरीकी  Soccer League (  1921-1933   )  , the  असली  North  अमरीकी   सॉकर  League  (   1968-1984   )  ,  the  National Professional  सॉकर  League  (  1984-2001 )  और   ,  currently , Major League Soccer (  1996-present  )  .
बास्केट  is a  अपेक्षाकृत   नई  development ; the  एनबीए  evolved from the National Basketball League  और  its splinter group  the  Basketball Association of  अमेरिका   ,  taking on its current form in 1949  .
Every major league averages 15,000  प्रशंसक  in attendance  प्रति   खेल  or higher  as   of   2011   .
मध्याह्न  Altitude is an astronomical navigation method  of  calculating an observer 's latitude  .
अर्जित  value management (  evm  ) , or  अर्जित  value project/performance management  (   evpm  )  is   a  project management technique  लिये  measuring project performance and progress in  an  objective  manner  .
Because EVM has the ability  to  combine  माप  of :
scope
schedule
and  cost,
in a  सिंगल  integrated  प्रणाली   ,  Earned Value Management is able to  provide   सटीक  forecasts  of   प्रोजेक्ट  performance problems ,  जिससे  is  an   महत्वपूर्ण   योगदान   लिये  project  प्रबन्धन   .
Early EVM  शोध   दिखाया  that  the  areas of planning and control are  significantly  impacted by  इसके  use ; and similarly  ,  using the methodology improves both scope  परिभाषा   as  well as the analysis of overall project  प्रदर्शन  .
More  हाल   शोध   अध्ययन  have shown  कि  the principles  of  EVM are positive  predictors   of  project success .
लोकप्रियता  of EVM has grown significantly  in  recent years beyond government contracting  ,  in which sector  इसके   महत्व  continues to  वृद्धि   (  e.g.  ,   हाल  new DFAR rules  )  , in part because EVM  can   भी  surface in  और   सहायता  substantiate contract disputes .
रंगीन  spring  गार्डन   पुष्प
Spring is one of  the   चार  conventional temperate seasons ,  following  winter and preceding  गर्मियाँ   .
There are various  तकनीकी   परिभाषाएं   of   वसन्त   ,  but  लोकल  usage  of   the  term  varies   according  to local  जलवायु  , cultures and customs .
When it is spring  in   the  northern  गोलार्ध  ,  it   होगा  be  पतझड़  in the southern  गोलार्ध  .
at   the  spring equinox , days  हैं   बंद  to  12   घंटों   long   साथ  day length  increasing  as the  ऋतु  progresses  .
Spring and  ``  springtime '' refer to the season , and  भी  to ideas of rebirth  ,   कायाकल्प  ,  नवीकरण   ,   क़यामत  , and regrowth  ,   साथ  festivals such as Carnival  ,  Easter  और  Holi being celebrated  at  this  समय   .
jamestown   थी  a settlement  in   the  Colony of Virginia  ,   the   पहला   स्थाई   अंग्रेज़ी   उपनिवेश  in  the  Americas .
स्थापित   by   the   वर्जिनिया   कम्पनी  of London as `` James  फोर्ट  ''  on   may   14  , 1607  (  O.S .  ,   may  24 , 1607  n.s   .  )  ,   it  followed several earlier  विफल  attempts ,  सहित   the   खोया   उपनिवेश   of  Roanoke  .
Jamestown served as the  पूंजी   of  the colony  लिये   83  years ,  इससे  1616  जबतक   1699  .
the  settlement was  स्तिथ  within  the   territory   of   a  political entity known as Tsenacommacah  ,  the state  of  the  powhatan  Confederacy  ,  with  around  14,000  देशी  inhabitants , and  specifically  was in  भाग  of the  subdivision   ज्ञात   as  the  paspahegh  tribe .
The natives initially welcomed  the  colonists  साथ   नाचना   ,  feasting and  तम्बाकू  ceremonies ,  और  they provided crucial  प्रावधानों  and support  लिये   the   अस्तित्व  of  the  colonists , who  यहूद   नहीं  agriculturally inclined ,  हालांकि   संबंध  with  the   newcomers  also soured  fairly   जल्दी   on  , leading to the  कुल  annihilation of  the  Paspahegh in  warfare   भीतर  3  सालो  .
भीतर  a year  of   jamestown   's  founding , the  वर्जिनिया  Company  brought   पॉलिश  and Dutch colonists to  सहायता  improve  the  settlement .
in   1619  , the  पहला  documented  africans   यहूद  brought  to  Jamestown  ,  though  the  modern conception  of  slavery in  the  future United States did  नहीं   शुरू  in  वर्जिनिया  until  1660   .
When the colony  थी   subdivided  into the original  आठ   shires  of Virginia in 1634 , the town became  स्तिथ   in  the eponymous James  नगर  Shire .
The London Company  's   दूसरी  settlement  ,   बरमूडा  ,  दावा  to  be  the  साईट   of   the   oldest   कस्बा  in the  अंग्रेज़ी   नई   संसार  , as St. George  's   ,   बरमूडा  was  officially   स्थापित  ( as New London )  in   1612  , whereas  जेम्स  Fort  ,   in   वर्जिनिया   ,   थी   नहीं   to  be converted  into   जेम्स  towne until 1619  ,  and  further  did not  जीवित   into  the  उपस्थित   दिन  .
in  1699 ,  the  capital was relocated from Jamestown to what is  आज  Williamsburg  ,  after which  jamestown  ceased  to  exist  as   a  settlement , existing  आज  only  as   an   पुरातत्व  site .
आज  , Jamestown is  एक  of three  स्थितियाँ  comprising the  ऐतिहासिक  Triangle of  औपनिवेशिक   वर्जिनिया  , along with  williamsburg  and  yorktown  , with two primary heritage  साइट   .
ऐतिहासिक  Jamestowne , the  पुरातत्व  site  on  Jamestown Island ,  is   a   सहकारी   प्रयत्न   by  Jamestown  नेशनल  Historic Site (  भाग  of Colonial  नेशनल   ऐतिहासिक   पार्क   )  , and Preservation Virginia .
The Jamestown  उपनिवेश  , a living  इतिहास   interpretive   साईट  , is operated by the  jamestown   yorktown   न्यास  in  संयोजन  with the Commonwealth of Virginia  .
James Christopher  फ्रे   (  born  सितंबर   12  , 1969 ) is an American  लेखक  .
उसके  books A  लाख   छोटी   टुकड़े  ( 2003 ) and My Friend  लियोनार्ड  ( 2005 )  ,  as  खूब   as  Bright Shiny Morning ( 2008 )  ,  were  bestsellers  .
he   थी   the  subject  of  a scandal when  जांचकर्ताओं  discovered that  थाना   समय  and the extent  of   निश्चित  injuries were  अतिरंजित   in  A Million Little  टुकड़े  , a  अधिकारीगण  autobiographical account  of  the  लेखक  's struggle with  व्यसन   .
deere   &  Company , most commonly  ज्ञात   by   इसके  name John Deere ,  is  an American corporation based  in  Moline ,  इलिनोइस  ,  और   एक   of   the  largest manufacturers of agricultural machinery  in   the   संसार  .
In 2012 ,  it   थी  listed as 97th  in  the Fortune 500  अमेरिका   's  ranking  और  190th  in  the Fortune 500 Global ranking  .
Deere  और  Company  agricultural   उत्पाद   ,   बेची  under the  जॉन  Deere name ,  शामिल   tractors  ,  combine   हार्वेस्टर   ,   कपास  harvesters ,  balers  , planters / seeders , sprayers  ,   और  UTVs .
The  कम्पनी   is  also a manufacturer of construction  उपकरण  and forestry  उपकरण   ,  as well as  a   प्रदायक  of diesel engines  और   drivetrains   (  axles , transmissions  ,  gearboxes ) used in  भारी  equipment .
additionally  , John Deere  manufactures  equipment  प्रयुक्त  in  लॉन   ,   grounds  , and  turf  care , such  as  walk-behind  लॉन   mowers  , zero-turn  लॉन  mowers ,  लॉन  tractors ,  और  snowthrowers .
To  support  the core  व्यवसायों   ,  John  deere  also provides financial  सेवाएं  and  अन्य   सम्बन्धित  activities .
the  company  's   स्लोगन  is `` Nothing  रनों   जैसे  a Deere ''  और  has a picture of a leaping  हिरण  as a logo ,  a   शब्द  play pun on  ``  nothing runs like  a  deer '' .
कार्ल  Westby coined the  phrase  ``  nothing  Runs  जैसे   a   deere  ''  लिये   a  marketing  अभियान  to sell snowmobiles .
The  कम्पनी   's  products are also  identifiable  by its distinctive shade  of  green paint ,  प्रायः  augmented by yellow  trim  .
The  संयुक्त   राज्य   ten-dollar  bill  (  $ 10 ) is a denomination  of  United States currency .
The first U.S. Secretary of  the   राजकोष   (  1789–95 ) ,  सिकंदर  Hamilton ,  is  currently  प्रदर्शित  on the  obverse   of  the bill  ,   जबकि   the  U.S. Treasury Building is  प्रदर्शित  on the reverse .
( Hamilton is  एक   of  two  non-presidents   प्रदर्शित   on   फिलहाल  issued U.S.  बिल्स   .
the   अन्य  is  बेंजामिन  Franklin  ,  on the $ 100 bill .
हैमिल्टन   is   एक  of  तभी   चार  people featured on  u.S.   पेपर  currency ( 1861  to   the  present ) who  थी  not born  in  the continental United States , as  he  was from the West Indies .
The  अन्य   हैं  : Albert Gallatin ,  स्विट्ज़रलैंड  ( $ 500  1862/63  Legal Tender ) ;  जार्ज  Meade ,  स्पेन  (  $   1,000  1890/91  राजकोष   नोट   )  ; and  रॉबर्ट   मॉरिस   ,  England ( $  1,000   1862/63  Legal Tender ;  $   10   1878/80   चांदी   प्रमाणपत्र   )   .
In addition , Kamehameha  i  ,  appears  on the 2008  हवाई   राज्य  quarter . )
सब  $ 10 bills issued today are Federal  आरक्षित  Notes  .
The Bureau of  नक्काशी  and Printing  says  the average  जीवन  of  a  $ 10 bill  in  circulation is 18  महीने  before it  is   replaced  due to wear .
Approximately  6   %  of  सब   us  banknotes printed in  2009  were $  10  bills  .
Ten dollar  बिल्स  are delivered  by  Federal  आरक्षित   बैंको   in  yellow  straps  .
The source of the face  on   the  $  10  bill is John  trumbull  ’s 1805  पोर्ट्रेट   of  Hamilton  कि  belongs  to   the  portrait  संग्रहण   of   नई   यॉर्क  City Hall .
The $ 10  विधेयक  is the only  u.S.   पेपर   करेंसी  in  परिसंचरण   in  which the portrait faces  to  the left ( the  $  100,000 bill featured a portrait of Woodrow Wilson  facing  to the  बाएँ   ,  but  थी   प्रयुक्त  only for intra-government  ट्रांजेक्शन  )  .
Andy Samuel  ग्रिफ़िथ  ( June 1  ,  1926 – July 3  ,   2012  )  थी  an  अमरीकी  actor , television producer  ,  Grammy  पुरस्कार  -winning  southern-gospel  singer  ,   और   लेखक  .
He was  a  Tony  पुरस्कार  nominee for two roles ,  और   gained  prominence in  the  starring  भूमिका  in director  एलिया  Kazan 's film  a   फेस  in the Crowd ( 1957 ) before  he  became better known for his television roles ,  playing  the lead  वर्ण   in  the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith  दिखाएँ  and in  the  1986–1995  विधिक  drama Matlock .
टेरेसा  Penelope `` Terri  ''   इरविन  ,  (   née  Raines ;  born  July 20 , 1964  )   is   an  Australian  -आधारd  , American  -born   naturalist  , author , the  विधवा   of   ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  naturalist Steve Irwin and  मालिक  of  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  Zoo at  beerwah  , Queensland ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   .
She co-starred  साथ   उसके   husband  on The  मगरमच्छ   शिकारी  , their unconventional  टेलीविज़न  nature documentary  श्रेणी   साथ   साथ   इसके   spin-off  series , Croc  फाइलें  and  the   मगरमच्छ  Hunter Diaries  .
वो  has lived in Australia since 1992 , when  वो  married Steve Irwin .
Andreas Cellarius 's illustration of  the  Copernican system ,  इससे   the   harmonia   macrocosmica  (  1660   )   .
Heliocentrism  ,  or  heliocentricism   ,   is   the  astronomical  मॉडल   in  which the Earth  और  planets revolve  around   a   अपेक्षाकृत  stationary  सूर्य  at the center of the Solar System .
the   शब्द  comes  इससे   the  Greek (  helios  `` sun '' and  kentron   ``   बीच  '' )  .
historically  , heliocentrism was  opposed  to geocentrism ,  जिससे  placed the Earth at the  बीच   .
The notion that the Earth revolves around the  सूर्य   था  been proposed as early  as  the  3rd  century  bc  by  aristarchus  of  samos  , but Aristarchus 's  heliocentrism  attracted  छोटी   ध्यान   जबतक  Copernicus  revived  and  elaborated  it .
Lucio  russo  ,  however   ,  argues  कि  this  is   a  misleading impression  resulting  from the loss of scientific works  of   the  Hellenistic Era  .
using  indirect  प्रमाण   he  argues that  a   heliocentric   दृश्य  was  expounded   in  Hipparchus 's work on  गम्भीरता  .
It was  नहीं  until the  16th  century that a fully predictive mathematical model  of  a heliocentric  प्रणाली  was presented ,  by   the  Renaissance  गणितज्ञ   ,   astronomer  ,  और   कैथोलिक   मौलवी   nicolaus   कोपरनिकस  of  कैंडल   ,  leading  to  the Copernican Revolution  .
in  the  following  century , Johannes  कॅप्लर   elaborated  upon and  विस्तारित   इस  model to  शामिल  elliptical orbits  ,  and  supporting  observations  बना  using a telescope were presented by  गैलीलियो  Galilei .
With the  observations  of William  हर्शेल  , Friedrich  bessel  ,  और  others , astronomers  एहसास   कि  the sun was not the center of the universe  और  by  the  1920s Edwin Hubble  था   दिखाया  that  it  was  भाग  of  a   आकाशगंगा  ( the Milky Way ) that was  तभी  one of  अनेक   अरबों  .
Norah Jones  (  born Geetali  नोराह  Jones Shankar ; March 30  ,   1979  )  is  an American  singer-songwriter  ,  pianist  , and actress  .
She is  the   बेटी  of  भारतीय  sitar player Ravi Shankar and  मुकदमा   जोन्स   .
She is also  anoushka  Shankar  's   half-sister   .
In 2002 ,  वो  launched her solo music career  साथ  the  रिलीज   of  the commercially  कामयाब  and  critically  acclaimed album Come Away with  me  , a fusion of country music and pop  साथ  elements of  जैज़   जिससे   थी   certified  diamond  एल्बम  , selling over 26  लाख   नक़ल   .
The  रिकार्ड   अर्जित  Jones five  ग्रैमी   पुरस्कार  , including the  एल्बम  of the Year  ,  Record  of  the Year ,  और  Best New  कलाकार   .
Her subsequent  स्टुडियो  albums ,  feels  Like Home  ,  released in 2004 ,  नहीं  Too  लेट  ,  released  in  2007  ,  the   वही  year she made  उसके  film debut in  my  Blueberry Nights  ,   और   उसके  2009  रिलीज   the  Fall all gained Platinum status  ,   selling  over a million  नक़ल   और  were generally  खूब  received  by  critics  .
जोन्स  ' fifth  स्टुडियो  album , Little  टूटा   दिल  , was released on  अप्रैल  27 , 2012 .
जोन्स  has won nine  ग्रैमी  Awards  और  was 60th on Billboard magazine 's artists of the  2000–2009  decade chart .
throughout  her career ,  जोन्स   रै  won  numerous  awards and has  बेची  more than  50   लाख   एल्बम   विश्वव्यापी  .
बिलबोर्ड   नामित   उसके   the  top jazz  कलाकार   of  the 2000–2009  दशक  .
नहीं   to  be  उलझन  with Dimension of a  शारीरिक   मात्रा   .
For other uses , see Dimension (  बहुविकल्पी   )  .
From  बाएँ  to right , the square , the cube , and the  tesseract  .
The  वर्गाकार   is   bounded  by 1-dimensional lines  ,  the cube  by  2-dimensional areas , and the tesseract  by  3-dimensional volumes .
A projection  of  the  घन   is  given since  it  is  viewed   on  a  two-dimensional  screen  .
The same  applies   to   the   tesseract   ,  which  additionally  can  तभी  be shown as a projection even in three-dimensional  स्पेस  .
a  diagram showing the  पहला  four spatial  आयाम  .
In  भौतिकी  and  गणित  ,  the   आयाम  of a space or  ऑब्जेक्ट  is informally  पारिभाषित  as the minimum  क्रमांक  of  निर्देशांक  needed to specify  कोई  point within it .
यूँ   a  line  रै  a  आयाम   of  one  क्युकी   तभी  one  निर्देशांक   is   needed   to  specify a point on  it  (  लिये  example ,  the  point at  5  on  a  number  लकीर  ) .
a   सतह   ऐसे  as a plane or the surface of  a   बेलन   or  sphere has a  आयाम   of   दो  because  दो  coordinates are needed to specify  a  point on  it   (  for example  ,  to locate  a  point on  the   सतह   of  a  गोला   तुम  need both its  अक्षांश  and its longitude )  .
The inside  of  a  घन   ,   a  cylinder  or   a  sphere is  three-dimensional  because  तीन  coordinates are  needed  to locate  a  point  भीतर  these  स्पेसेस   .
In physical terms , dimension  refers   to  the constituent  ढांचा  of all space (  आवाज़   )   और   इसके   स्थिति  in time (  आभास  as a scalar  आयाम   साथ  the t-axis )  ,  as  खूब  as the spatial  संविधान   of  objects  within—structures   कि   correlate  with  दोनो  particle and field conceptions , interact according to relative properties of mass  —and   हैं   fundamentally  mathematical  in  description .
These , or  अन्य   अक्ष  ,  may  be referenced to uniquely  पहचानो   a  point  or  structure in its  रवैया  and relationship  to  other objects and  आवृत्ति  .
Physical theories  कि  incorporate time  ,  such  as  general  आपेक्षिकता   ,  are said to  कार्य  in 4-dimensional `` spacetime ``  ,  ( defined as  a   मिन्कोवस्की   स्पेस  ) .
Modern theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' including quantum field  और  string  theories   .
The state-space of quantum  यांत्रिकी   is  an infinite-dimensional function space .
The  अवधारणा  of dimension is not restricted  to  physical objects  .
high-dimensional  spaces occur in  गणित  and the sciences for  अनेक  reasons  ,  frequently  as   विन्यास   स्पेसेस  such as in Lagrangian  or  Hamiltonian  यांत्रिकी  ;  ये   हैं  abstract  स्पेसेस  , independent of the physical space we  सजीव  in .
fontana   (   )   is   a   नगर   of  200,762 residents in San Bernardino  काउंटी   ,   कैलिफ़ोर्निया   .
Founded  in  1913 ,  it  remained essentially  ग्रामीण  until World War  ii  , when  उद्योगों  Henry  J.   कैसर   निर्मित  a large  स्टील  mill in the area .
It is now  a   क्षेत्रीय   हब   of   the  trucking industry , with Interstate 10  और  State Route 210 transecting  the  city from east to west , and  अंतरराज्यीय   15  passing  diagonally  through  इसके  northwestern quadrant .
It is home to the largest  of   the   सैन  Bernardino County system  पुस्तकालयों  , a  संवर  historic  थिएटर   ,   a  municipal park , and  the  Auto Club  स्पीडवे  on  the   साईट   of  the Kaiser  स्टील  Mill .
Fontana  भी   होस्ट   the  Fontana Days  हाफ  Marathon and  5k   चलाएं  .
This  रेस  is the  तीव्रतम   half-marathon  course in the  संसार   .
the   u.S.  2012  जनसांख्यिकी  reported  कि  Fontana 's population was 200,762  in  2012 ,  बनाना   it  the second most populous city  in  San Bernardino  काउंटी  county and 14th in the  राज्य  .
Cowboys Stadium is  a  stadium  साथ   a  retractable roof  in   आर्लिंगटन  , Texas  .
It  serves  as the home  of   the  National  फ़ुटबॉल  League  's  Dallas Cowboys .
It replaced the partially  covered  Texas Stadium , which opened in  1971  , and served  as  the Cowboys  '  home through  the   2008  season .
it   थी  completed on  may  27 , 2009 .
The stadium seats  85,000   ,   बनाना  it the third largest  स्टेडियम  in the  एनएफएल  by seating  क्षमता  .
The maximum  क्षमता  of  the  stadium , including standing room , is 105,000  .
The  पार्टी  Pass  (  open areas  )   भाग  are behind seats in  प्रत्येक  end zone and  on   a   श्रेणी  of six  elevated  platforms connected by stairways  .
It has  the  world 's  largest   column-free  interior  और   the  fourth  largest   ऊँची   परिभाषा  video  स्क्रीन  ,  जिससे   hangs  from 20  यार्ड  line to  20   यार्ड  line  .
The facility  can  also  be  used  लिये  a variety  of  other activities  बाहर  of  इसके   प्रमुख   purpose  ( professional football  )  such as concerts  ,  basketball games , boxing  मिलान  ,  कॉलेज   फ़ुटबॉल  and  ऊँची  school football  प्रतियोगिताओं   ,   सॉकर   मिलान  ,  और   motocross  races .
Canadian  इतिहासकारों   जबतक  the 1980s tended  to  focus on economic  इतिहास   ,  including labour history  .
In part  इस   is   क्युकी   कनाडा  has had far  कम  political  or   सैन्य   विरोध  than  अन्य   समाजों  .
इस   थी  especially true  in   the   पहला   हाफ  of  the   बीसवीं  century  जब   आर्थिक   इतिहास  was  overwhelmingly   प्रबल  .
Many  of  the most prominent English Canadian  इतिहासकारों  from this period were  आर्थिक  historians , such as  हेरोल्ड  Innis ,  डोनाल्ड   creighton  and  आर्थर  R.  M.  Lower
Scholars of Canadian  इतिहास   यहूद   वारिस   to   the   परंपराओं  that developed in  यूरोपीय   और   the  United States  ,  but frameworks that worked well elsewhere often failed in Canada .
the  heavily  मार्क्सवादी  influenced economic history  कि   dominates  Europe has little relevance to most  of  Canadian history  .
A  फ़ोकस  on  क्लास   ,   शहरी   क्षेत्रों   ,   और  industry  fails   to   पता   कनाडा  's  ग्रामीण   और   संसाधन  based economy .
Similarly  ,   the   monetarist  school that is dominant in the United States also has been difficult to transfer north of the border  .
the  study of  आर्थिक  history in  कनाडा   became  highly focused on  आर्थिक  geography , and for many  सालो  the  प्रबल   स्कूल   of  thought has  महरूम  the staples  लेख  .
This  स्कूल  of thought  bases  the study of the Canadian economy on  the  study  of  natural  संसाधन  .
This  दृष्टिकोण  has  चूंकि   भी  become  प्रयुक्त   बाहर  of  कनाडा  in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   और  in many  विकासशील  nations  .
Before the  आगमन   of  Europeans ,  the  First Nations of  कया  would  become   कनाडा  had  a   विशाल  and  हर्षोल्लास  trade network  .
Furs  ,   टूल्स   ,  decorative  वस्तुएं   ,  and other goods were often transported  हज़ारों   of   किलोमीटर  ,  ज़्यादातर  by  कैनो   throughout  the many  नदियाँ  and  झीलों  of the region .
The early  यूरोपीय  history of  the  Canadian economy is  प्रायः  studied through  the  staples thesis which argues the  कनाडाई   अर्थव्यवस्था  developed  through   the   शोषण  of a series  of  staples that would be  exported   to  Europe .
carbon-14  , 14C ,  or  radiocarbon  ,  is  a   रेडियोसक्रिय   समस्थानिक   of  carbon  साथ  a  केंद्रक  containing 6 protons and 8  neutrons  .
इसके  presence in organic  सामग्री  is the  आधार  of the  radiocarbon   डेटिंग  method pioneered by  willard   लिब्बी   और   सहयोगियों  ( 1949  )  to date archaeological ,  geological   और   hydrogeological  samples  .
Carbon-14 was  खोजा   on  27  फ़रवरी  1940 , by Martin Kamen and  sam  Ruben  at   the  University  of   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  Radiation Laboratory  in  Berkeley ,  हालांकि  its existence had been  सुझाया   by  Franz Kurie in 1934 .
वहीँ  are  तीन  naturally occurring isotopes  of  carbon  on  Earth  :   99   %   of   the  carbon is  carbon-12   ,  1  %   is  carbon-13  ,   और  carbon-14 occurs  in  trace amounts , i.e.  ,  making up about  1  part  प्रति  trillion (  0.0000000001  % ) of  the   कार्बन  in  the   माहौल  .
The  half-life   of   carbon-14   is  5,730±40  सालो  .
Carbon-14  decays  into nitrogen-14  through   बीटा  decay  .
The  प्राथमिक  natural source of  carbon-14  on Earth is cosmic ray  कार्रवाई   upon   नाइट्रोजन   in  the  माहौल   ,  and  it   is   इसलिए  a cosmogenic  nuclide   .
However  ,   open-air  nuclear testing between 1955–1980 contributed to this pool  .
The different isotopes  of  carbon  do  not  differ   appreciably   in  their  रासायनिक   गुण   .
This  is  used  in   रासायनिक  and biological  शोध  , in a  तकनीक  called carbon labeling :  carbon-14  atoms can be  प्रयुक्त  to replace nonradioactive  कार्बन   ,  in order  to   ट्रेस  chemical and  biochemical  reactions  involving  carbon atoms  इससे   कोई  given organic  यौगिक  .
बिजली   is  a highly visible  रूप   of   उर्जा  transfer
Lightning strikes are  विद्युत   discharges  on  a  massive scale  between  the atmosphere and  an  earth-bound  ऑब्जेक्ट  .
वे  mostly  originate   in   thunderclouds   और  terminate on  the  ground ,  पुकारा   बादल  to  मैदान  ( CG )  बिजली  .
However ,  वे  may  भी   be  initiated from  a  very tall grounded object  और  reach  into  the  बादल  .
हालांकि  ``  a  lightning strike ''  is  commonly used  to  describe all lightning  ,  it is rather erroneous and  a   misnomer  ,  as   तभी   परिचय   25  % of all lightning events worldwide are  cg  , the large bulk  of  lightning events are  intracloud  (  ic   )  or Cloud to  बादल  (  cc   )  ,  जहाँ  discharge only  occurs  high in  the   माहौल   .
The scientific  नाम  for the complete  प्रक्रम   of  a single lightning event is a and it  is  a very  जटिल   ,  multiple stepped interaction  ,  which  is  not  completely  understood .
सबसे   cg   flashes  only  ``  strike  ''  one  शारीरिक   स्थान  , referred  to  as a  termination   .
The primary  conducting   चैनल   ,  the bright  coursing   लाइट   तुम   may  see  और  call a `` strike '' , is  तभी   परिचय  1 inch  in   व्यास   ,  although  to  our  आँखें  it looks  much  larger  .
वे   हैं   मील  long ,  upwards   of   tens   of  miles  .
और   the  entire  फ्लैश  , lasts  तभी  a few  भिन्नों   of  a  दूसरी   ,   सबसे  of  जिससे  is not visible to human eyes .
थंडर  is  सदा  produced by  बिजली  .
Just  जैसे  lightning , that  deceives   हमारी   आँखें   ,   प्रायः  looking  larger   or  closer than it  वाकई  is ,  the  earth 's  माहौल   और  our  दिमाग  's  बोध   of  the  बाहर  world , ultimately determines whether it is `` heard '' or not  .
Lightning can not  happen   in  a  वैक्यूम   विहीन   of   ions  , nor can  थंडर  occur without molecules  to  vibrate .
Thunder is  a   शारीरिक  absolute for every single  फ्लैश  of  बिजली   .
Contrary  to  popular belief  ,  a  बिजली  strike  itself  is  प्रायः   नहीं  responsible for  अनेक  deaths  or   चोटों  from a single  इवेंट  .
it  would  be  impossible given the  प्राकृतिक   tendencies   of  a flash  ,   जबतक   लोगों  or animals were  stacked   on  top  of   प्रत्येक  other , or they  यहूद  somehow  arranged  vertically and  भाग  of the flash  चैनल  .
जब  lightning ignites an available fuel source  और  an  विस्फोट   occurs   ,   it  is  the  shock wave or fire  causing  the injuries , not the strike itself  .
Ground Currents  ,   भी  called step  संभावित  , of an  धरती  termination is  कया   truly  causes  सबसे   चोटों  or death  to  humans and animals .
the  near instantaneous rush of surface  आरोप  , induced by the  ओवरहेड   thundercloud  itself ,  रेस  to the  स्ट्राइक   पाइंट  from hundreds to thousands of  फीट   दूर  during discharge  .
This  वर्तमान   ,  caused during each  स्ट्रोक  ,  takes  the path of least  प्रतिरोध   ,   जिससे   may   be  ion rich  इंसान  or animal  टाँगे   ,  over  poorly  conducting  धरती  .
This is why it is best to  crouch  ,  साथ  feet close together , if  कभी  caught  in  the open during  a   अंधड़  .
दुर्भाग्यवश  ,  सबसे  reports do not draw a distinction between  the  real cause  of  injury or  मौत  , be it the strike itself , a  resulting   विस्फोट  or  आग  ,  or   प्रायः   जिम्मेदार  step potential .
पीटर  F. Kilmartin (  born  1962 ) is  the  current  attorney  General of Rhode Island .
Kilmartin  is  also  a   रिटायर्ड  police captain and  a   पूर्व  member of  the  Rhode  द्वीप  House of Representatives .
a   युगल   following  their marriage  in   the  Manti Utah  टेम्पल  .
sealing  is an ordinance  (  ritual  )   performed   in  Latter Day  संतो   मंदिरों   by  a person  पकड़कर   the  sealing authority  .
The purpose of  इस   अध्यादेश  is  to  seal familiar  संबंध   ,  making  संभावित  the existence of family relationships throughout eternity .
lds   शिक्षाओं  place great importance  on  the specific  प्राधिकार   जरूरी  to perform these  sealings  .
गिरिजाघर   doctrine   सिखाती   कि  this  प्राधिकार  ,  पुकारा   the  Priesthood  ,  corresponds  to  that  दिए   to  Saint Peter  in  .
sealings   हैं  typically performed as  विवाह  or as sealing  of  children  to  parents  .
वे   यहूद   performed   prior   to  the  मौत  of Joseph Smith ,  jr.  ( the main founder of the Latter  दिन   संत  movement )  ,  and are  फिलहाल  performed in  the  Church  of  Jesus Christ of Latter-day  संतो   .
हालांकि   कुछ   अन्य  denominations , such as the  जातियाँ  of Christ , view sealing as an  centuries  of Smith  's  practice of  बहुवचन   विवाह  , some  do   स्टिल   perform   उन्हें   .
The 2000s  ,  pronounced  ``  two thousands  ''   ,  was  a  decade  कि   began   on  January 1  ,   2000   ,   और  ended on December  31   ,  2009  .
Globalization ,  जिससे  had  त्वरित  after the  जल्दी  1990s fall of communism , continued to  be  a force in the 2000s  .
the   विकास  of the Internet  थी   एक  of  the   प्रधान  contributors to globalization during  the  decade  ,   बनाना  it possible for  लोगों   to  interact with  अन्य  people  ,   एक्स्प्रेस   विचार  ,  introduce  others to  अलग   संस्कृतियों  and backgrounds  ,  use goods and services  ,   बेचें  and buy online , research and learn about things  ,  along with experiencing the  संसार   बगैर   having  to  छोड़  home .
The institutions  ,  linkages  और   technologies   कि   उभरा  or  यहूद  redefined earlier  होता  subsequently in  इस  decade  लाभ  many  देशों   ,   in   particular  China  और   इण्डिया  .
however   ,  in other  भाग  of  the  world  ऐसे   प्रगति  failed to address  जारी  struggles  साथ   आधुनिकता  ,  सबसे   notably  characterized by the rise  of  al-Qaeda and  अन्य  Islamist  समूह  .
the   सितंबर  11 attacks  in  2001 led to the United  राज्य   ,   संयुक्त  Kingdom , Spain  ,  Canada  और   अन्य   राष्ट्र  invading Afghanistan , as well as implementing various anti-terrorist  उपायों   at  home and  विदेश   in  what  थी   ज्ञात   as  the  युद्ध   on   आतंक  .
The  यूरोपीय   संघ  saw further integration  और   विस्तार   throughout  much  of  Europe .
The economic growth  of   the  2000s had considerable environmental consequences ,  उठाया  demand  लिये   घटाते   उर्जा  resources  ,  and  थी  still shown to  be  vulnerable as  demonstrated   दौरान   the  Global  वित्तीय  Crisis  of  the late 2000s .
The Gunfight  at  the  o.k   .  Corral was  a   gunfight  that  took   प्लेस  at about 3:00 p.m.  on   बुधवार  ,  अक्तूबर  26 , 1881 , in  tombstone  , Arizona Territory , and is generally regarded as  the  most famous  gunfight   in  the history  of  the American Old West  .
The  gunfight   ,   believed  to have  lasted  only about thirty seconds  ,  was fought  between  the  गैरकानूनी  Cowboys Billy Claiborne  ,  Ike and Billy  clanton   ,  and  tom   और  Frank  mclaury  , and  the  opposing town Marshal  वर्जिल   earp  and  उसके  brothers Assistant  कस्बा  Marshal Morgan and  अस्थाई   lawman  Wyatt , aided  by  Doc  हॉलिडे  designated  as  a temporary marshal by Virgil .
Ike Clanton and Billy Claiborne  भागा   इससे   the  fight  unharmed   ,   लकिन  Ike 's  bhai  Billy Clanton  थी  killed ,  साथ  with  दोनो  McLaurys .
lawmen   वर्जिल  and Morgan  earp   और  Doc  हॉलिडे  were wounded .
Only  व्याट   earp  came  through   the   लड़ो  unharmed .
the  fight  रै  come to  represent  a  समय   in  American  इतिहास  when the frontier  थी  open  दायरा   लिये  outlaws  opposed   by   विधि  enforcement  कि   थी  spread thin over vast territories  ,  leaving  कुछ   क्षेत्रों   unprotected   .
The gunfight  थी  not  खूब  known to  the  American public  जबतक   1931   जब   लेखक   स्टुअर्ट  Lake published what has since  महरूम   संकल्पित   to   be  a largely  fictionalized  biography  ,  Wyatt  earp  : Frontier Marshal , two years after Earp 's  मौत   .
Lake retold his story  in   a   1946  book that  निदेशक   जॉन  Ford developed into  the   फिल्म  My Darling  clementine  .
After  the   फिल्म  Gunfight at  the  O.K . Corral  थी   released  in  1957  , the shootout came to be known by that  नाम  .
Since then ,  the  conflict  रै  been portrayed with varying degrees of  सटीकता  in  numerous   पश्चिमी  films  और  books .
despite  its  नाम  , the gunfight actually occurred in  a  narrow lot six doors  वेस्ट   of  the rear entrance to  the   o.k  .  corral   on   fremont  Street , and also  in  the  गली  .
The two opposing parties  यहूद  initially  तभी   परिचय   अलावा  .
About thirty  गोलियाँ   यहूद   fired   in   तीस   सेकेंड  .
Ike Clanton  दायर  murder  आरोप  against  the   earps  and  दस्तावेज़  Holliday but  वे   यहूद   आखिरकार  exonerated by a  लोकल  judge  बाद   a  30-day preliminary  सुनना   और  then again by a local grand jury .
on  December  28   ,   1881   ,   वर्जिल  Earp  थी  maimed in an  हत्या  attempt  by  the outlaw  cowboys  , and  on   कूच   18  ,  1882  ,  वे   assassinated   मॉर्गन  Earp  .
the  suspects furnished solid  alibis  , and  newly   नियुक्त  Deputy U.S  .  Marshal Wyatt Earp took  matters  into his own hands  दौरान  the  earp  Vendetta Ride , ironically  धड़ा   by   काउंटी   शेरिफ  Johnny Behan  साथ   वारंट   लिये  the Earp 's arrest .
HDMI ( High-Definition  मल्टीमीडिया   इंटरफ़ेस  )  is  a  कॉम्पैक्ट  audio/video interface  लिये  transferring uncompressed  वीडियो   आंकड़ा  and  compressed/uncompressed   डिजिटल  audio data from a HDMI-compliant  यंत्र  ( `` the source device ''  )  to a  संगत   कंप्यूटर  monitor  ,  video projector  ,  digital  टेलीविज़न  ,  or   डिजिटल  audio  यंत्र  .
hdmi  is  a  digital replacement  लिये   मौजूदा   एनालॉग  video standards .
There are a  क्रमांक  of HDMI-standard cable  कनेक्टर्स   उपलब्धियाँ  , each  of   जिससे   can  be used  लिये   कोई  uncompressed  tv  or  pc   वीडियो  format  ,   सहित   मानक   ,  enhanced , high definition , and  3d   वीडियो  signals ; up to  8  channels of  संपीडित  or  uncompressed   डिजिटल   ऑडियो  ; a  cec  ( Consumer Electronics  कंट्रोल  ) connection ; and an  ईथरनेट  data connection  .
hdmi  implements the EIA/CEA-861 standards , which define  वीडियो  formats and waveforms , transport  of   संपीडित   ,  uncompressed ,  और   lpcm   ऑडियो  ,  auxiliary   आंकड़ा  , and implementations of  the  VESA EDID  .
The CEC  allows  HDMI devices  to  control each other when necessary and allows  the  user  to   operate  multiple devices with one remote control handset .
Because HDMI is electrically compatible with the  cea-861  signals used  by   डिजिटल   विज़ुअल  interface ( DVI  )  , no signal conversion  is  necessary  ,  nor is  वहीँ  a  घाटा  of video quality when a DVI-to-HDMI  एडाप्टर  is used  .
As  an  uncompressed  cea-861  connection  ,  HDMI  is  independent of the various digital television  मानकों   प्रयुक्त  by individual devices  ,   ऐसे  as ATSC  और   dvb   ,   as  these are encapsulations  of  compressed MPEG  वीडियो   स्ट्रीम  ( which  can  be decoded and  आउटपुट  as an uncompressed  वीडियो  stream on HDMI ) .
Production  of  consumer HDMI products started in  लेट  2003  .
in   यूरोपीय  either DVI-HDCP or HDMI  is  included in the  hd  ready in-store  labeling  specification for TV sets  लिये  HDTV ,  प्रतिपादित  by  eicta   साथ   ses   अस्त्र  in  2005   .
HDMI began to appear on consumer HDTV camcorders and digital still  कैमरे  in 2006 .
as   of  January 8  ,   2013  , which is ten  सालो  after the  रिलीज  of the first  hdmi   specification  ,  over   3  billion HDMI devices have shipped  चूंकि  the  लॉन्च   of  the HDMI standard  .
ब्री  Van de  kamp  ( née Mason ;  भी   ज्ञात   in   the   श्रेणी  as Bree  होज  and Bree Weston )  is  a  fictional  character and one of the four protagonists on  the   एबीसी   टेलीविज़न   श्रेणी  Desperate  housewives  .
She  is   निभाई   by   अभिनेत्री   marcia  Cross ,  जो  has  प्राप्त  multiple awards and nominations for her portrayal , including an  एमी  Award nomination , three  सुनहरी  Globe Award nominations , and two Screen Actors  गिल्ड  Awards .
क्रॉस   's  portrayal of  ब्री   रै  been  widely  praised  by  critics and fans .
क्रॉस  originally auditioned  लिये  the role of  मरियम  Alice Young  ,   लकिन  series creator Marc Cherry  विचार  she was better suited  लिये  the role of Bree  .
Dana  delany  , who eventually  थी   डाल  as Katherine  mayfair   ,  was originally chosen  लिये  the  भूमिका  but  turned  it  bas  , saying it was  too   समान  to  उसके   भूमिका   in  Pasadena  .
Bree 's main struggle  throughout   the  series has  महरूम  her  कोशिशें   to  maintain a perfect life  despite  various  बाधाएं   ऐसे   as   widowhood  , divorce  ,   और  alcoholism  hindering  her .
वो   रै  been  शादीशुदा   तीन   टाइम्स  ; to  रेक्स  Van  de  Kamp  (  Steven Culp )  ,   orson  Hodge (  काइल   maclachlan  ) and  ट्रिप  Weston (  स्कॉट  Bakula ) .
See  भी  the Town of  algoma   in   winnebago  County , Wisconsin  .
देखिए  also  algoma  ( Disambiguation )  .
Algoma  is   a  city in Kewaunee County  in   the   u.S.   राज्य  of  विस्कॉन्सिन  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 3,167 at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
Algoma is part  of  the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area .
The  hangover   भाग   ii  is  a  2011  अमरीकी   कॉमेडी  film produced by Legendary Pictures  और   वितरित  by Warner Bros. Pictures .
It is the  sequel  to 2009  's  The Hangover and the second film  in   the   hangover   मताधिकार  .
टॉड  Phillips directed  the  film in addition to  co-authoring   the   स्क्रिप्ट  with  क्रेग   mazin  ,  और  Scot Armstrong  .
The film  सितारों  Bradley  कूपर  , Ed  helms  ,  zach  Galifianakis ,  केन   jeong  ,  जेफरी   tambor  ,  जस्टिन   bartha  and Paul Giamatti  .
The  hangover  Part  ii  tells the story  of  Phil ,  stu   ,  Alan ,  और  Doug as they travel  to   थाईलैंड   लिये  Stu 's wedding .
After the  स्नातक   पार्टी   in  Las Vegas  ,  Stu takes no chances  और  opts  लिये  a safe  ,  subdued pre-wedding  brunch   .
however  , things do  नहीं   go   as  planned , resulting  in  another bad hangover with no  यादें   of   the  previous night  .
Development of The  hangover   भाग  II began in  अप्रैल  2009  ,  two months before The  hangover  was released  .
The principal actors  यहूद   डाल   in  March 2010  to  reprise  उनके   भूमिकाएँ   इससे   the  first film .
उत्पादन   began  in October 2010 , in Ontario ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ,   पहले  moving on location in  थाईलैंड   .
The film  थी  released on  may   26  ,  2011  and , despite receiving mostly negative reviews from critics  ,  it  became   the  highest-grossing  r-rated   कॉमेडी  during its  नाट्य   चलाएं   .
A third film is  नियत   लिये   on  May 24 , 2013 .
Young Man Among  गुलाब  , portrait  miniature  by Nicholas Hilliard , 1588 ,  v   &  A  .
believed   to  be the Earl of  एसेक्स
The Ditchley  पोर्ट्रेट  of  एलिज़ाबेथ  I by  the   विदेशी  Marcus  gheeraerts   the  Younger , c.1592
The English  पुनर्जागरण  was a cultural  और   कलाकारी  movement  in   इंग्लैण्ड   डेटिंग  from  the   लेट  15th and early  16th  centuries  to  the  जल्दी  17th century .
It is  संबद्ध   साथ  the pan-European Renaissance  कि   is  usually regarded  as   शुरूआत   in   इटली  in the late 14th century  .
Like most of  उत्तरी   यूरोपीय  , England saw little of these  developments  until  अधिक  than a  सदी  later .
The beginning  of  the English  पुनर्जागरण  is often  लिया   ,  as a convenience  ,  to  be  1485 , when  the  Battle  of  Bosworth Field ended  the   युद्धों  of the  गुलाब   और   उदघाटन  the Tudor  राजवंश  .
पुनर्जागरण   स्टाइल   और   विचार   ,   however   ,   यहूद  slow  in   penetrating   इंग्लैण्ड  , and  the   elizabethan   era  in the second half  of   the   16th   सदी  is usually regarded as  the  height of  the   अंग्रेज़ी   पुनर्जागरण  .
एलिज़ाबेथ   ऐन  Bloomer Warren  ``   बेट्टी  ''  घाट  ( April  8  ,  1918  – July 8 , 2011  )  ,  थी  First Lady  of  the  संयुक्त  States from 1974 to 1977 during the presidency  of  her husband Gerald  घाट  .
As First  महिला  ,  वो   थी  active in social  नीति  and created  precedents  as  a  politically  क्रियाशील  presidential wife .
throughout  her  husband   's  term  in   दफ्तर  ,  वो  maintained  ऊँची   स्वीकृति   दरजा   despite  opposition  इससे  some  रूढ़िवादी   republicans  who  objected   to   उसके  more moderate  और  liberal  स्थितियाँ   on   सोशल  issues .
Ford was noted  लिये  raising breast  कर्कट  awareness  following  her  1974  mastectomy and was a passionate supporter  of  ,  और  activist for ,  the  Equal Rights Amendment  (  ERA )  .
pro-choice  on  गर्भपात  and a  नेता  in the Women 's Movement  ,  she gained  कीर्ति   as  one of  the   सबसे  candid first  महिलाओं   in  history  ,   commenting   on   प्रत्येक  hot-button  समस्या   of   the  time , including feminism , equal  अदा  ,  the  ERA ,  sex   ,   दवाएँ   ,   गर्भपात   ,  and gun control  .
वो  also  उठाया  awareness of addiction when she announced her  long-running  battle  साथ  alcoholism  in   the   1970s  .
Following  उसके   श्वेत   हाउस   सालो  , she  जारी   to  lobby for the  era  and remained  क्रियाशील   in  the feminist movement .
She was the founder , and served as the  पहला   कुर्सी  of the  फलक   of  directors  ,  of the Betty Ford Center for substance  गाली  and addiction  और   is   a  recipient of the Congressional Gold  पदक   (  co-presentation  साथ   उसके  husband ,  जेराल्ड  R. Ford , October 21 , 1998 )  और  the Presidential  पदक   of   स्वतंत्रता  ( alone ,  प्रस्तुत   1991  ,  by  George  H.  W.  बुश   )  .
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM-1 )  भी   ज्ञात  as  क्लस्टर  of  differentiation  31 ( CD31  )   is  a  प्रोटीन  that in  इंसान  is  एनकोडेड  by  the   pecam1  gene found  on   chromosome  17  .
PECAM-1 plays a key role in removing aged  neutrophils   इससे   the   देह  .
Jessica Rafalowski  ,  Miss  फ्लोरिडा   यूएसए  2008
जेन्ना  Edwards , Miss  फ्लोरिडा  USA 2007
Melissa Witek , Miss  फ्लोरिडा  USA  2005
क्रिस्टन   berset  , Miss  फ्लोरिडा   यूएसए  2004
the  Miss  फ्लोरिडा  USA  प्रतियोगिता   is   the   pageant   कि  selects the representative for  the   राज्य  Florida in  the   मिस   यूएसए   pageant  .
जबकि   फ्लोरिडा  has  महरूम  successful  in  terms  of   runners-up  ,  finalists   और  semi-finalists  ,  the state has  never  won the Miss USA  pageant  , although Cheryl Patton became Miss  यूएसए   बाद   सिल्विया  Hitchcock won Miss  ब्रह्मांड   .
फ्लोरिडा  's  बेहतरीन  results  यहूद   दौरान   the  mid-1960s to mid-1970s .
उनके   सबसे  recent finalist  थी   lissette   गार्सिया  who  लगाई  in the top  16   in   2011   .
दो   पूर्व   मिस  Florida  टीन  USA  titleholders  have  जीती  this competition  ,   और  three titleholders have also competed at Miss America .
The current titleholder  is  Michelle Aguirre of Hialeah .
Anglo-Saxon England refers to the period  of   the  history of  the   भाग  of Britain that  became  known as  इंग्लैण्ड   ,   स्थायी  from the end  of   रोमन   occupation  and establishment  of   anglo-saxon   kingdoms  in the 5th  सदी  until the  नॉर्मन   conquest   of  England in 1066 by William the Conqueror .
Anglo-Saxon is a  सामान्य   पद  referring to the Germanic peoples who came  to   ब्रिटेन  during  the  5th and  6th   सदियां  ,  सहित  Angles , Saxons  ,  Frisii , and  jutes  .
the   पद  also refers  to   the   भाषा   बोला   at  the  समय  in England ,  जिससे   is  now called Old English  ,  and to the culture  of   the  era ,  जिससे  has long attracted popular  और  scholarly attention  .
जबतक  the 9th  सदी  Anglo-Saxon England was dominated by  the  Heptarchy , the kingdoms of Northumbria  ,  Mercia , East Anglia , Essex , Kent , Sussex , and  wessex  .
in   शर्तें   of   धर्म  the  kingdoms  followed Anglo-Saxon  paganism   दौरान   the  early  काल   ,   लकिन  converted to Christianity  दौरान   the  7th  सदी   .
Paganism  था   a  final stronghold  in  a period  of  Mercian hegemony during the 640s , ending  साथ   the   मौत   of  Penda of Mercia  in  655 .
facing  the  threat   of   viking   invasions  ,  the  House of Wessex became dominant  दौरान  the 9th century  ,  under the rule of  अल्फ्रेड  the Great .
दौरान  the 10th century  ,  the individual kingdoms unified under  the  rule  of  Wessex into  the   किंगडम   of  England  ,  which stood opposed to the  danelaw   ,  the Viking kingdoms  स्थापित   इससे   the  9th  सदी  in the north and  ईस्ट   of   इंग्लैण्ड   .
The Kingdom  of   इंग्लैण्ड   गिरी  in the Viking  आक्रमण  from  डेनमार्क  in  1013   और   थी  ruled  by  the House  of  Denmark  जबतक  1042 , when  the   anglo-saxon  House  of   wessex   थी  restored  .
The last  anglo-saxon  king  ,  Harold  godwinson   ,  was killed  in  1066 at the Battle of Hastings .
lighting  a  परंपरागत   रेड  brick  जॉन  Ross Jr  kiln
Smoked salmon is a preparation  of   सामन   ,   typically  a fillet that  रै  been cured and  hot  or  ठंडा  smoked .
due   to   इसके   मध्यम   ऊँची  price  ,  smoked  सामन  is considered a delicacy .
Although the  पद   lox  is  sometimes  applied to smoked salmon , they  हैं  different  उत्पाद  .
View  of   defibrillator  electrode  स्थिति  and placement  .
Defibrillation is  a   आम   उपचार   लिये   life-threatening  cardiac  dysrhythmias   ,   ventricular   fibrillation   ,  and  pulseless   ventricular   tachycardia   .
Defibrillation  consists  of delivering  a  therapeutic dose  of  electrical energy to the  प्रभावित   दिल   साथ  a device called  a  defibrillator  .
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart  मांसपेशी  ,  terminates  the dysrhythmia , and  allows  normal sinus rhythm to be  reestablished  by the body 's natural  pacemaker  ,  in  the  sinoatrial   नोड  of  the   दिल   .
Defibrillators can be external , transvenous  ,   or  implanted  ,  depending on the type  of  device used  or  needed  .
कुछ  external units , known as automated  बाह्य   defibrillators   (   aeds   )   ,   automate  the diagnosis  of  treatable rhythms  ,  meaning that lay responders or bystanders  हैं   समर्थ  to use them successfully with little , or in  कुछ  cases  no  training at all .
Gabrielle ``  कोको   ''  Bonheur Chanel  (  August 19 ,  1883   –  January 10  ,   1971  ) was a French  फ़ैशन  designer and  संस्थापक  of the Chanel brand  .
वो  was the  तभी   फ़ैशन   पंक्तियां  to  appear   on  Time  पत्रिका  's  सूची   of   the  100  सबसे  influential people of the 20th century .
साथ   साथ  Paul Poiret  ,  Chanel was credited with liberating  महिलाओं   इससे  the  constraints  of the `` corseted silhouette  ''  and popularizing  the   स्वीकृति  of  a   sportive   ,   कैज़ुअल  chic  as   the  feminine  मानक   in   the  post- World War  i   era   .
A  सफल   फ़ैशन   निर्माता  ,  चैनल  's influence  विस्तारित  beyond couture clothing .
उसके   डिज़ाइन  aesthetic was realized in jewelry , handbags  ,  and  महक  .
Her signature scent , Chanel No . 5  ,   रै  become an  iconic   उत्पाद   .
Chanel  थी  known  लिये   उसके  lifelong determination ,  महत्वाकांक्षा  and energy  जिससे   वो  applied to  उसके  professional  और  social life  .
She  हासिल   दोनो  success as a businesswoman and social prominence  धन्यवाद  to  the  connections she made through her work  .
These included many  कलाकारों   और  craftspeople  to  whom she became a patron  .
however  ,  चैनल  's  अत्यधिक  competitive , opportunistic personality led her to make questionable life  चुनाव   जिससे  have generated controversy around her reputation ,  विशेषकर   उसके  behaviour  दौरान  the German occupation of France in World  युद्ध   ii  .
अलाइड  Mills flour mill  on   the  banks of the Manchester Ship  कनाल
A  gristmill  ( also :  grist  mill ,  मकई  mill or  आटा   मिल  ) grinds grain  into  flour  .
the  term  can  refer to  दोनो   the   पीस   यांत्रिकी  and the building  कि  holds it .
रोमानिया  (  ;  dated  spellings   roumania  and Rumania ;  )  is a  देश  located at the intersection of  सेंट्रल  and  southeastern  Europe  ,  bordering  on  the  ब्लैक  Sea  .
रोमानिया  shares  a  border with Hungary and  सर्बिया  to the  वेस्ट   ,  Ukraine and Moldova to the northeast and east , and  बुल्गारिया   to  the south .
At , Romania is the eighth largest country  of  the European Union  by  area  ,   और  has  the  seventh largest  जनसांख्यिकी  of  the  European  संघ   साथ  more than  19  million people .
Its capital  और  biggest city is  बुखारेस्ट  , the  11th   largest  city  in  the EU .
The United  principalities  emerged when the  territories   of  Moldavia and  wallachia  were  संयुक्त  under  प्रिंस   सिकंदर  Ioan  cuza  in  1859  .
in   1866  Prince  karl   of   hohenzollern-sigmaringen  was  पुकारा  to the  सिंहासन  as the  सत्ताधारी  Prince of the  रोमानियाई  Principate and  in   1881  he was finally crowned  as  King Carol I the first monarch of  the  Kingdom of Romania .
स्वतंत्रता   इससे   the   उस्मानी   साम्राज्य  was declared on 9  may  1877  ,   और   थी   internationally  recognized the following  साल   .
At the  समाप्त   of   संसार  War I ,  transylvania  , Bukovina  और  Bessarabia united with the Kingdom  of   रोमानिया   .
संसार   युद्ध  II gave cause to  the   वृद्धि   of  a military dictatorship in Romania  अंतर्गत  fascist General  आयन  Antonescu ,  जो  chose to fight on the side of  the  Axis powers  इससे  1941 to 1944 .
After  उसके  removal  ,  Romania switched  पहलू   in  1944  और   joined  the Allies .
By  the   समाप्त  of the war , some  formerly  Romanian  northeastern   territories   यहूद  occupied by the Soviet  संघ  ,  साथ   रेड   फौज   इकाई   stationed  on Romanian soil .
in   1947   रोमानिया  forcibly became a People 's Republic (  1947-1965  )  और   a  member of the Warsaw  अनुबंध   .
In 1965  nicolae  Ceauşescu  became  General Secretary  of   the  Romanian  कम्युनिस्ट   पार्टी  , and the harsh austerity measures  ,  political repression  ,  and cult  of   व्यक्तित्व  he implemented led  to  the Socialist Republic of  रोमानिया   (   1965-1989   )  becoming the  सबसे   stalinist  police state in the Eastern bloc  .
Eventually his authoritarian government was  toppled  in December 1989 during the Romanian Revolution of  1989  .
साथ  the fall  of  the Iron Curtain  ,   रोमानिया  began its transition  towards   लोकतंत्र   और   a  capitalist market economy .
After  a  decade of post-revolution economic  समस्याएं  and living-standards decline ,  extensive  reforms fostered  आर्थिक   रिकवरी   .
As of 2010 ,  रोमानिया   is  an  upper-middle-income  country with a high  इंसान  development index .
रोमानिया   joined  NATO  on  29 March 2004  ,  and  the   यूरोपीय   संघ  on  1   जनवरी   2007  .
It  is   भी  a member of the  :   लैटिन  Union ,  francophonie  , OSCE ,  wto   ,   bsec  ,  संयुक्त  Nations  ,  etc .
Today , Romania  is  a unitary semi-presidential republic ,  in  which the executive branch consists of  the   अध्यक्ष   और   the   सरकारी  .
`` Ancient '' redirects here .
लिये  other  उपयोग  , see  प्राचीनता  ( disambiguation ) .
The times before writing belong  either   to  protohistory  or  to  प्रागितिहास  .
khafre  's Pyramid ( 4th  राजवंश  ) and Great  sphinx  of Giza ( c. 2500  bc   or  perhaps earlier )
Ancient history is  the   पढ़ाई  of  the  written past  इससे   the  beginning  of  recorded  इंसान  history to the  जल्दी   मध्य   आयु   .
The  स्पैन  of  अंकित   इतिहास   is   roughly   5,000   सालो   ,  with Cuneiform  स्क्रिप्ट   ,  the oldest  खोजा  form of coherent  लिखने   ,  from the protoliterate period  around  the 30th century  bc  .
This  is  the beginning  of   इतिहास  ,  as   opposed   to  prehistory  ,   according   to   the  definition  प्रयुक्त  by  सबसे  historians .
The term classical antiquity is often used  to  refer to  इतिहास  in  the  Old World  इससे  the beginning of  अंकित  Greek  इतिहास  in 776 BC  (  First Olympiad ) .
This roughly  coincides  with the  परंपरागत  date of  the  founding  of  Rome  in  753 BC  ,  the beginning  of   the   इतिहास  of ancient Rome , and the beginning of  the  Archaic period  in  Ancient  यूनानियों  .
Although  the  ending  तिथि  of ancient history is disputed  ,   कुछ   पश्चिमी   विद्वानों  use the  पतन  of  the   पश्चिमी  Roman  साम्राज्य  in  476  AD , the closure of  the   platonic   अकादमी  in  529   ad   ,  the death  of  the emperor Justinian  i  , the coming of Islam  or  the rise  of   शारलेमेन  as the  समाप्त  of  प्राचीन  and  शास्त्रीय   यूरोपीय  history .
in   इण्डिया  ,  the  period  शामिल   the  early  काल   of  the  मध्य  Kingdoms , and , in  चीन   ,  the time  up  to the Qin  राजवंश  is  शामिल  .
Methylcobalamin  (   दिखाया  ) is a form  of  vitamin B12 .
physically  it  resembles  the  अन्य  forms of vitamin B12 , occurring  as  dark red  crystals  that freely form  cherry-colored  transparent solutions  in  water .
विटामिन   b12  , vitamin  b12  or  विटामिन   b-12   ,  also  पुकारा   cobalamin  ,  is   a   water-soluble  vitamin  साथ  a key role  in   the   सामान्य  functioning  of   the  brain  और   बेचैन  system , and  लिये   the   गठन  of  रक्त  .
It is  एक  of  the   आठ  B  विटामिन   .
It  is   सामान्यतः  involved in the metabolism of  प्रत्येक  cell  of   the  human body  ,  especially affecting  डीएनए   संश्लेषण   और   विनियमन  , but also  वसीय  acid  संश्लेषण  and  उर्जा   उत्पादन  .
neither  fungi  ,  plants  ,  nor animals are capable  of  producing vitamin B12  .
Only bacteria and  आर्किया  have  the   एंजाइमों   जरूरी   लिये  its synthesis , although  अनेक  foods are  a  natural source of B12  क्युकी   of   बैक्टीरियल   symbiosis   .
the  vitamin is  the  largest and  सबसे  structurally complicated  विटामिन   और  can be produced  industrially  only through bacterial  fermentation-synthesis  .
Vitamin B12 consists  of  a  क्लास  of  chemically   सम्बन्धित  compounds ( vitamers  )  ,  सब  of  जिससे   have  vitamin activity .
it  contains the biochemically rare element cobalt .
Biosynthesis  of  the  मौलिक  structure of the  विटामिन   is   संपन्नता   तभी  by  जीवाणु  ( which usually produce hydroxocobalamin  )  ,  लकिन  conversion between  अलग   फ़ॉर्म   of  the vitamin  can  be accomplished in the human body .
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin ,  cyanocobalamin  , does not occur  in  nature ,  लकिन   is  produced  इससे  bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then used  in   अनेक  pharmaceuticals  और  supplements , and  as   a   खाना   योगात्मक   ,  because of its stability and lower  उत्पादन   लागत   .
In  the  body it  is   परिवर्तित   to  the  इंसान  physiological forms methylcobalamin  और   adenosylcobalamin  ,  leaving  behind  the  cyanide  ,  albeit  in   minimal  concentration .
More recently , hydroxocobalamin  ,  methylcobalamin  ,   और  adenosylcobalamin can  be   मिला  in  अधिक  expensive pharmacological  उत्पाद  and food  पूरक  .
The extra  यूटिलिटी   of  these  is  currently debated .
Vitamin  b12  was discovered  इससे   इसके  relationship  to   the   बीमारी   घातक  anemia , which is  an  autoimmune  बीमारी  in  जिससे  parietal  कोशिकाएं   of  the  पेट   जिम्मेदार  for secreting  मूलभूत  factor are destroyed .
मूलभूत  factor is crucial  लिये  the  सामान्य  absorption of  b12   ,   so  a lack  of   मूलभूत   फ़ैक्टर  , as  देखी  in pernicious anemia ,  कल्याणकारी   a   विटामिन   b12   कमियां  .
अनेक  other subtler  kinds   of  vitamin  b12  deficiency and their biochemical  प्रभाव  have since  महरूम   elucidated  .
The  रोमन  Empire (  )   थी  the post- Republican  काल   of   the  ancient Roman civilization  ,  characterised by an  निरंकुश  form  of   सरकारी   और  large territorial  holdings  around  the   भूमध्यसागरीय  in  यूरोपीय   ,  Africa ,  और  Asia .
The 500-year-old Roman  गणतंत्र  , which  preceded  it , had  महरूम   destabilized   through  a series of  सिविल  wars  .
अनेक  events marked the transition from Republic to Empire ,  सहित  Julius Caesar 's  नियुक्ति  as  perpetual  dictator  (  44 BC ) ;  the   बैटल   of   actium  ( 31  bc  ) ; and  the  granting  of  the honorific  augustus  to Octavian  by   the   रोमन  Senate (  27  BC ) .
the   पहला   दो   सदियां   of  the Empire were a  काल   of  unprecedented stability  और  prosperity  ज्ञात  as the Pax  romana  (  ``  Roman Peace '' ) .
It reached its greatest  expanse  during the reign  of   त्राजान  ( 98–117  ad   )   .
In the 3rd  सदी   ,  the Empire underwent  a  crisis that threatened its existence  ,  but  थी  reunified and stabilized under  the  emperors  aurelian   और   diocletian  .
Christians rose  to  power in the 4th century , during which  समय  a system  of   डुअल   नियम   थी  developed  in   the  Latin  वेस्ट  and  यूनानी  East .
बाद  the collapse of central government in  the   वेस्ट  in  the   5th  century  ,  the  पूर्वी   हाफ  continued as what would later be known  as  the  बीज़ान्टिन  Empire .
Because  of   the  Empire 's  विशाल  extent and long endurance , the institutions  और   संस्कृति   of  Rome had  a  profound and lasting influence  on  the development  of   भाषा  , religion  ,  architecture  ,   दर्शनशास्त्र   ,   विधि  , and  फ़ॉर्म   of  government in the territory it  governed   ,   विशेषकर  Europe  ,  and  by  means of European  expansionism   throughout  the  आधुनिक   संसार   .
कुल  body surface area ( TBSA ) is an  मूल्यांकन  measure of burns of  the  skin  .
In  वयस्कों  , the `` rule of  nines   ''   is  used  to   determine   the   कुल  percentage of  क्षेत्रफल   burned  for each major  खण्ड   of  the body  .
In some cases  ,  the burns may  कवर  more than  एक  body  भाग  , or  may   नहीं  fully  कवर   ऐसे   a  part ; in  ये   मामले  ,  burns   हैं  measured by  using  the  casualty   's  palm as a  सन्दर्भ   पाइंट  for  1  %  of  the  देह   .
For children and infants  ,  the  lund-browder  chart is used to assess the  burned  body surface  क्षेत्रफल   .
Different percentages  हैं   प्रयुक्त   क्युकी  the ratio  of   the   संयुक्त  surface  क्षेत्रफल   of   the   सिर  and neck to the  सतह  area  of   the  limbs  is   typically  larger in  children  than  कि   of   an   वयस्क  .
ठेठ  values for common groups of  इंसानो   follow  .
(  due  to  rounding   ,   मान   may   नहीं   add  to 100  %  .  )
संसार  infant  मृत्यु   दरों   by   पाँच   सालो   averages   in  2008  .
इस   is   a   सूची   of  countries by infant mortality rate .
यूनुस   किर्स्टन  Sorrentino ( born  जून   26  ,  1975  ) ,  बेहतर  known  by   उसके  stage name KJ-52 , is a Christian rapper from Tampa , Florida  .
The ``  kj  '' part  of   उसके  name refers to  उसके  old rap  alias   ,  ``  किंग   J.  Mac , '' a name which he  बाद  described in one of his podcasts  as  ``  horribly  cheesy .  ''
``   52  '' ,  जिससे  is pronounced  ``  five two  ''  ,  नहीं   ``   fifty-two  ''  ,  is a reference to  the   biblical  story of Jesus feeding the multitude  साथ  five  loaves  and  दो   मछली  , which is also sung  परिचय   in  his  सोंग  `` Push Up  ''  from The  yearbook  and in the  ``   kj  Five  दो   ''  on It 's Pronounced  'five   दो  .
He  थी   awarded   the   rap/hip   हॉप   अंकित  Song of  the  Year  लिये   ``  Never Look Away '' and Rap/Hip Hop  एल्बम   of   the  Year at the GMA  dove  Awards  of  2007 .
on   जुलाई   28  , 2009  ,  KJ-52 released `` End of  my  Rope ''  ,   जिससे  is the  पहला  single  लिये  his  एल्बम  Five-Two Television  .
उसके   सोंग  `` Dear Slim '' is  आधारित   on  Eminem  's   सोंग   ``   स्टेन  `` and  is   a   sort  of personal  संदेश   इससे   kj-52  to  एमिनेम   .
the   उपाधि  symbol ( °  )   is   a  typographical  प्रतीक  that is used  ,  among other things , to represent degrees  of   चाप   (   e.g  . in geographic  निर्देशांक  systems  )  ,  घंटों   (  in  the  medical field ) ,  or  degrees  of  temperature .
the   प्रतीक   consists   of  a  छोटी  raised circle  ,   historically  a  शून्य   glyph   .
In  युनिकोड   it   is  encoded at  .
इस  is a list  of  roots  ,   प्रत्यय  , and prefixes  प्रयुक्त  in medical terminology ,  उनके   meanings  , and their etymology  .
वहीँ  are  a  few  नियम   जब   using  medical roots .
Firstly  ,   prefixes  and suffixes , primarily in  यूनानी  , but  भी  in  लैटिन  ,  have   a   droppable   -o-   .
As  a   सामान्य  rule  ,  this  -o-   लगभग   सदा   अधिनियमों  as a joint-stem to connect two consonantal  जड़ें   ,   e.g  . arthr- + -o-  +   logy   =   arthrology  .
But generally , the -o- is  dropped   जब   connecting   to   a  vowel-stem  ;   e.g  .  arthr-   +   itis   =  arthritis  ,   बजाय  of  arthr-o-itis   .
secondly  , medical  जड़ें  generally go  साथ  according  to  language  :  Greek  prefixes  go  साथ  Greek suffixes  और   लैटिन   prefixes  with Latin suffixes .
Although international scientific  शब्दावली  is not stringent about  segregating  combining forms of  अलग  languages ,  it   is  advisable  जब   coining   नई  words not  to   मिक्सर   अलग  lingual roots .
पेट  cancer ,  or  gastric cancer ,  refers  to  कर्कट   arising  from any  भाग  of  the  stomach .
पेट   कर्कट   कल्याणकारी  about 800,000  मौतों   विश्वव्यापी   प्रति   साल   .
prognosis   is   ग़रीब  ( 5-year survival < 5  to  15 % ) because  सबसे   मरीजों   उपस्थित   साथ  advanced disease  .
सारा   lynn  Evans ( born February 5  ,  1971  )  is  an  American country singer  और   songwriter  .
लिये  her entire career  ,   वो  has been  हस्ताक्षरित  to  आरसीए  Records Nashville .
इवांस  '  डेब्यू   ,  Three  मदारी   और  the Truth ,  किया  not  उपज   a   शीर्ष   40  hit on the Hot  देश  Songs charts .
वो   followed   इस   up   साथ  No Place That Far ( 1998  )   ,  Born to  मक्खी   (  2000 )  ,  Restless  (   2003   )  and  रियल   ठीक   प्लेस  ( 2005  )   .
no  Place That Far received  a  gold certification from  the   रिकॉर्डिंग  Industry  संघ  of America ( RIAA  )  ,  जबकि  the  अन्य  three albums  सब  were certified platinum .
These  discs  include the number 1 singles  ``   no   प्लेस   कि  Far ``  ,   ``  Born  to  Fly `` ,  ``  Suds  in   the  Bucket `` and  ``  A Real Fine  प्लेस   to  Start  ``  , plus the top 10 hits ``  i   could  Not  पूछो  for  अधिक   ``   (   a  cover of the  एडविन   मैक्केन  song  )  , ``  i   रखना   looking  `` ,  ``   पूर्ण   ``   और  ``  cheatin  ' ``  .
Her  2007  Greatest Hits included  the   शीर्ष   15  hits ``  तुम  'll Always Be My Baby `` and ``  as   if   ``  .
Stronger ( 2011 ) included her fifth  क्रमांक  1  hit  ,  ``   a   छोटी   बिट  Stronger  ``   ,   जिससे  was co-written  by   हिलेरी  Scott of Lady  antebellum  .
Evans has also won one  पुरस्कार   प्रत्येक  from Billboard ,  the  Academy of  देश   म्यूज़िक  , Country  म्यूज़िक  Association ,  ब्रॉडकास्ट  Music Incorporated ( BMI )  और  a Dove Award .
The  संसार   's  principal  धर्मों  and spiritual traditions may be classified  into  a  छोटी  number of major groups ,  हालांकि  this  is  by  no   अर्थात्  a uniform  अभ्यास  .
इस  theory began  in  the 18th century  साथ   the  goal of recognizing the relative  स्तर  of civility  in   समाजों  .
berliners   watching   a   c-54   जमीन  at Tempelhof Airport ( 1948 )
The  बर्लिन   नाकेबंदी  ( 24 June 1948 – 12 May  1949   )  was  एक   of  the  पहला  major  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  crises  of   the  Cold War  .
During the multinational occupation of  post–world   युद्ध  II Germany ,  the  Soviet Union blocked  the  Western  allies  ' railway  ,  road  ,  and  कनाल  access to  the  sectors  of   बर्लिन  under  अलाइड   कंट्रोल   .
Their aim  थी   to  force the  पश्चिमी  powers to  allow  the Soviet zone  to  start  supplying  Berlin  साथ  food and fuel , thereby  giving   the   soviets   व्यावहारिक  control over the  संपूर्ण  city  .
In  जवाब  , the  पश्चिमी   allies  organized the Berlin  एयरलिफ्ट  to carry  आपूर्तियाँ  to  the   लोगों  in West  बर्लिन  .
aircrews   इससे  the United  राज्य  Air Force  ,  the  अंग्रेजों  Royal  एयर  Force  ,  the Royal Australian  एयर  Force  ,  the  royal  Canadian  एयर   फ़ोर्स  ,  the   royal   नई  Zealand Air Force , and the  दक्षिण  African  एयर  Force flew  over  200,000 flights in one  साल   ,   providing  up to 4700 tons of daily necessities such as  ईंधन  and  खाना  to  the   berliners   .
By the spring  of  1949  ,   the   प्रयत्न  was  clearly   succeeding  and ,  by   अप्रैल  , the airlift  थी  delivering  अधिक  cargo  than   था  previously  महरूम   transported  into the city  by  rail .
The  कामयाबी  of the  बर्लिन  Airlift  brought  embarrassment to  the   soviets   जो   था   refused   to  believe  it   could  make a difference  .
The blockade was  lifted   in  May  1949  and  resulted  in  the  creation of two separate  जर्मनी  states .
the  Federal Republic  of   जर्मनी  ( West Germany  )  and the  जर्मनी  Democratic Republic  (  East Germany  )  split  up  Berlin .
in   स्मरण  of the airlift ,  तीन   एयरपोर्ट   in  the  पूर्व  western  zones  of  the  city  परोसा  as  the   प्राथमिक  gateways to Germany  लिये   another  fifty years  .
The  यूरोपियन   चिह्न  ; logotype and handwritten .
The  यूरोपियन  sign  is  the currency sign used  लिये   the   यूरोपियन  , the official currency of  the  Eurozone  in  the European Union ( EU )  .
the   डिज़ाइन   थी   प्रस्तुत  to  the   पब्लिक  by the  यूरोपीय  Commission  on  12 December 1996 .
The international three-letter  कोड   (  according to  आईएसओ  standard  आईएसओ   4217   )   लिये   the   यूरोपियन  is  eur   .
In Unicode it  is   एनकोडेड   at   .
In English  ,  the  चिह्न  precedes the value .
in  some styleguides  ,  but  नहीं  others ,  the  euro sign is unspaced .
Mate  (  , ;  sometimes  also spelled maté )  ,  also known as  chimarrão   (   )  or  cimarrón  (  )  , is  a   परंपरागत  South American  infused   पेय   ,   विशेषकर  in  अर्जेंटीना  , Uruguay ,  पैराग्वे   और  the  दक्षिणी  states  of  Brazil and to a lesser  उपाधि  in south of Chile ,  the  Bolivian Chaco  ,  Syria and Lebanon  .
It is  prepared  from  steeping   सूखी  leaves of yerba  mate   (   llex  paraguariensis , known in  पुर्तगाली   as  erva-mate ) in hot water .
Mate is served  साथ  a metal straw from  a   साझा  hollow  calabash  gourd  .
The straw is  पुकारा  a  bombilla  in  कुछ  Latin  अमरीकी  countries , a bomba  in  Portuguese , and a bombija  or   ,  more generally ,  a   masassa  (  प्रकार   of  straw )  in  Arabic  .
the  straw is traditionally made  of  silver  .
Modern , commercially available  लोभी   हैं  typically made  of  nickel  चांदी  ,  पुकारा  Alpaca ; stainless steel ,  or   hollow-stemmed  cane .
The gourd is known  as  a mate  or   a  guampa  ;   जबकि   in  Brazil , it has  the   विशिष्ट  name  of   cuia   ,  or also  cabaça  (  the  name for Indigenous-influenced calabash  gourds   in   अन्य   regions   of  Brazil ,  स्टिल  used for  सामान्य  food  और  drink in  रिमोट  regions  )  .
भी  if  the  water  is  supplied from  a   आधुनिक  thermos , the  infusion  is  traditionally   नशे   इससे  mates or cuias .
as  with other  brewed  herbs  ,  yerba  mate   पत्ते  are dried  ,  chopped ,  और  ground into a powdery mixture  पुकारा   yerba  .
The bombilla acts as  दोनो  a straw  और  a sieve .
The  submerged   समाप्त  is  flared  , with small  छेद  or  स्लॉट   कि  allow  the   brewed  liquid in ,  लकिन   ब्लाक  the  चंकी  matter  कि  makes up  much  of the  मिश्रण  .
a  modern  bombilla   डिज़ाइन  uses  a  straight tube with holes , or spring sleeve to  अधिनियम  as  a   sieve  .
`` Tea-bag  ''  type infusions of mate  (  mate cocido )  have   महरूम  on the market in Argentina ,  पैराग्वे  and Uruguay  लिये  many years under such trade names  as   ``  Taragüí  vitality  '' in  अर्जेंटीना  , `` Pajarito  ''   और  ``  kurupí   ''   in   पैराग्वे  , and  in  Brazil  अंतर्गत   the  name  ``  Mate  leão  '' .
This  is  considered  a   completely  different drink  .
It  is   never   नशे   इससे  cuias or  पुकारा  chimarrão ,  nor   is   it   संबद्ध  with the gaucho/gaúcho  संस्कृति  .
The  ऑटोमोटिव  industry is a term  कि  covers  a   चौड़ी  range of companies and  संगठनों   शामिल   in  the design ,  विकास   ,   manufacture  , marketing ,  और   selling   of   मोटर  vehicles , towed vehicles , motorcycles and mopeds  .
It is one  of   the   संसार  's  सबसे  important  आर्थिक  sectors  by   आय  .
the  term automotive industry  प्रायः  does  नहीं  include industries dedicated to  the  maintenance of automobiles following delivery to  the  end-user  ,   ऐसे  as repair shops  और   मोटर   ईंधन   भरना   स्टेशन   .
the  term automotive  थी   निर्मित   इससे  Greek autos (  स्वः  ) , and  लैटिन   motivus   (  of motion  )   to  represent any  रूप  of self-powered vehicle .
This term was proposed  by  SAE member  एल्मर  Sperry .
दाउद  Michael  ``   डेव  ''  bautista   ,   jr.   (  born January 18 ,  1969  ) ,  is   an  American  मिश्रित  martial artist , bodybuilder  ,   कर्ता  , and former professional  पहलवान  best  ज्ञात   लिये   उसके   समय   in  World Wrestling  entertainment  competing under the  रिंग   नाम   बतिस्ता   .
In  डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई  , he became  a  six-time  संसार  champion , winning  the   संसार  Heavyweight Championship  चार  times  ,  and the WWE Championship  दो  times .
He  is   the  longest-reigning World Heavyweight Champion in  डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई  history  .
in   जोड  to these  championships  ,  बतिस्ता  has  जीती   the  World Tag Team  चैंपियनशिप   तीन   टाइम्स  (  twice  with Ric  फ्लेयर  and once with John Cena  )  and  the   डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई  Tag Team Championship once ( with Rey  मिस्टीरियो  ) .
Batista was also the winner of the  2005  Royal  rumble  match and  गई  on to headline WrestleMania  21  , one of the  शीर्ष   पाँच   highest-grossing   pay-per-view   कार्यक्रम  in  प्रो   कुश्ती   इतिहास  .
After trying out at World Championship Wrestling 's Power Plant , Batista signed a contract with  the  WWF in 2000 and was sent  to  its developmental  territory  , Ohio  घाटी  Wrestling ( OVW  )  , where  he   जीती  the OVW Heavyweight  चैंपियनशिप  .
In August  2012  , Bautista signed  a   अनुबंध   साथ   क्लासिक  Entertainment  &   खेल  to  लड़ो  in  मिश्रित   martial  arts  .
He won his MMA debut  on  October 6 , 2012  ,   defeating   विंस  Lucero via TKO  in  the  पहला   गोलाकार  .
Henry  T.   थामस  Sampson  ,  Jr. (  born  in Jackson , Mississippi in 1934 ) is  an  African-American inventor .
He graduated from high school  in  1951 from Lanier  ऊँची   स्कूल  in Jackson , Mississippi  .
He then attended Morehouse College  लिये   a   युगल  of  सालो  before transferring to  purdue  University where he became a member  of  the  ओमेगा  Psi  फाई  fraternity  .
He received a Bachelor  's  degree in science  इससे  Purdue  विश्वविद्यालयों  in 1956 .
He  ग्रैजुएट   साथ  an  ms  degree in engineering from the  विश्वविद्यालयों   of   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ,  लॉस  Angeles  in  1961  .
sampson  also received his  ms  in Nuclear Engineering from  the  University of  इलिनोइस  Urbana-Champaign in 1965  ,   और  his PhD  in  1967 .
He is  the   पहला  African  अमरीकी   to  earn a Ph.D.in Nuclear  अभियान्त्रिकी  in the United  राज्य  .
Some of his accomplishments  शामिल   होने  a  सदस्य  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य   नेवी   between  the  सालो   1962  and  1964   और  earning an  परमाणु   उर्जा  Commission honor between  1964  and 1967 .
Later  he   थी   awarded  the  ब्लैक  Image  पुरस्कार  from Aerospace Corporation in  1982  .
he  was awarded the  अश्वेतों  in Engineering ,  लागू  Science Award , and prize for  शिक्षा  ,  by   the   लॉस   एंजिल्स  Council  of  Black  पेशेवर  Engineers  in  1983 .
in  June 2007  ,  Sampson was married to Laura Howzell Young in St. Thomas ,  u.S.  Virgin  आइलैंड्स  .
Young-Sampson  is   a  professor in the  कॉलेज  of  शिक्षा   at  California State University San  bernardino  .
Robert Lane  गिब्स  (  born  March 29 ,  1971  )  is  a  वरिष्ठ  campaign adviser for  us  President Barack Obama .
Previously , he  थी   the  28th White  हाउस  Press  सचिव   .
Gibbs  थी   the   संचार  director  लिये  then-  u.s   .  Senator Obama and his 2008 presidential  अभियान   .
गिब्स  ,  जो   रै   worked  with Obama  चूंकि   2004  , was  दबायें  secretary of  जॉन  Kerry 's 2004 presidential campaign and has previously specialized in Senate  अभियान  , having  परोसा  as communications director for  the  Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and for four individual Senate campaigns  ,   सहित   those  of  ओबामा  in 2004  और  Fritz Hollings in 1998 .
Gibbs was also  the   दबायें   सचिव   of  Representative  bob  Etheridge .
On November 22  ,  2008 ,  गिब्स  was announced  as  the  दबायें   सचिव  of the Obama  प्रशासन   .
He assumed  the   भूमिका   of  press secretary  on  January 20  ,   2009   ,   और  gave his  पहला   आधिकारिक  briefing  on   जनवरी  22 .
On January  5  ,  2011   ,  Gibbs  घोषित  that  he   होता   छोड़   the  White  हाउस   to  become an  बाहर  adviser  to  the administration .
He left  on  February  11  , 2011 .
On February 12 , 2013 , it  थी  announced that Gibbs had  महरूम  hired  as   a  contributor  लिये   cable-news   चैनल  MSNBC  .
His  पहला  appearance  थी   on  the  वही  night prior to the  2013  State  of  The Union  पता  .
Armando  pérez   (   born  January 15 ,  1981  ) ,  बेहतर  known  by   उसके   स्टेज  name  pitbull  , is an American  rapper  ,  songwriter  ,  और   रिकार्ड   निर्माता   .
उसके  first recorded  प्रदर्शन   थी  from the Lil Jon  एल्बम   किंग्स  of  crunk   in  2002  .
In  2004  , he released his debut album  titled  M.I.A.M.I .  (   छोटी   लिये  Money  is  A  प्रमुख  Issue  )  under TVT Records .
Since then  ,  he  रै  released  तीन   अन्य  albums under  the   लेबल  : El Mariel in  2006   ,   the  Boatlift  in  2007  ,  and Planet Pit  in   2011  .
He released  rebelution  in 2009  ,  which included singles ``  i  Know  तुम   want  Me (  calle  Ocho ) `` and `` Krazy `` .
The latter  peaked  at No . 30 on  the  Hot  100  and  no  .  11   on  the  hot  Rap Tracks  चार्ट  while ``  i  Know You Want  me  ''  peaked  at No . 2 on the Hot 100 and  peaked  within the top ten spots  of   चार्ट  in the UK  ,   कनाडा   ,   इटली   ,  and the  नीदरलैंड्स  .
The song reached  no  . 1  in  France and the European  hot   100  on  the   सप्ताह  ending  अगस्त  29  ,  2009 according  to  Billboard magazine  .
He  बाद  signed  साथ  Polo  grounds   म्यूज़िक  through  सोनी   म्यूज़िक   और  created his own label  mr.   305  Inc .
Another single from Rebelution was ``  होटल   रूम   सेवा   ``  , which peaked  at  No .  8   on  the  hot   100   .
Rebelution went  on  to sell over  7.5  million worldwide  डिजिटल  singles  और  albums combined .
Nevertheless ,  he   dropped  a smash  पुकारा  `` Give Me Everything '' which reached #  1   विश्वव्यापी   ,   और  featured  कलाकारों  Ne-yo , Nayer  ,  and Afrojack .
He has also  performed   as  a featured  कलाकार   in   the   remixes   of   अनेक  other  hit  songs  ,   जैसे  Tik  टोक  , Scream & Shout ,  lo  Hecho Esta Hecho , Bad  ,  Papi  ,  Diamonds , How  कम  , Tonight  (   i  'm Lovin '  तुम  )  ,   वीडियो  Phone , Over  to  You Now and  bumpy  Ride .
pérez   is  also the host  of  his  अपना  Spanish-language program on the  केबल  channel Mun2  titled  La Esquina (  स्पेनी  for The  कोने   )  .
In  2005  Pérez  और   rapper  Sean  'diddy  '  combs   co-founded  Bad  लड़के   लातीनी   ,   a  subsidiary of Combs ' Bad  लड़के  Records label  .
it  primarily focuses  on   लैटिन  hip hop  ,   लैटिन  soul , Latin  पॉप   और   अन्य   तीव्र  music ,  और  has  कार्यालयों   in  New York  और  Miami  ,  Florida .
साथ  with co-founding it , Pérez currently  heads  the A  &   r  division of  the  label  .
Pérez  रै  become  a  product endorser ,  representing  alongside Drake  ,  Rihanna , and  trey  Songz the  “so  Kodak” campaign  लिये   the  Kodak  ब्रांड  and embarking  on   a   साझेदारी   साथ  the soft  पेय   दानव  Dr Pepper  as   भाग   of  the  अभियान  “ Vida 23 ”  लिये  which  he  recorded  the  song  specifically  featured on his album Armando .
pitbull  also  घोषित  he has  become   the  spokesperson  लिये  Voli Vodka ,  in  which  he   holds  a majority  इक्विटी  stake , and Budweiser has chosen  pitbull  to promote  इसके  Bud  लाइट   लकीर  of  बियर   .
The commercials  फिलहाल   हाइलाइट   pitbull  dancing and gyrating  on  stage  पकड़कर   up  a bottle of Bud Light .
Pitbull has also purchased an equity stake in Miami  subs   पिज़्ज़ा  and Grill  .
Halloween  or   hallowe'en  ( a contraction  of   ``   सब  Hallows  '   संध्या   ``  ) , also known as  सब   hallows  '  संध्या  ,  is  a yearly  जश्न  observed in  a  number of  देशों  on October 31 , the  संध्या   of   the  Western  ईसाई  feast of  सब  Hallows (  or  All  संतो  )  और  the day initiating  the   triduum  of Hallowmas .
according  to many  विद्वानों  , All  hallows  ' Eve is  a   christianised  feast originally  बहकावे  by western European harvest festivals , and  त्यौहार   of  the dead with  संभावित  pagan  जड़ें   ,  particularly the Celtic Samhain  .
Other scholars maintain that it  originated  independently  of  Samhain and has solely  ईसाई   जड़ें  .
Typical  त्यौहार  Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ) , attending costume  पार्टियों  ,  नक्काशी  pumpkins into  jack-o'-lanterns   ,  lighting bonfires , apple bobbing , visiting haunted  आकर्षण  ,  playing  pranks  ,  telling  डरावने  stories  ,  and watching horror films  .
Freedom  of  speech  is   the  political right to  communicate   एक   's  opinions  और  ideas  using  one 's body and property to  anyone  who  is   willing  to receive them  .
The  पद   स्वतंत्रता  of  अभिव्यक्ति  is sometimes used synonymously ,  लकिन   शामिल  any  अधिनियम  of seeking , receiving  और   imparting  information or ideas ,  regardless  of the medium used .
In practice , the right  to   स्वतंत्रता  of  वाक  is not  निरपेक्ष   in  any  देश  and  the   सही  is  commonly  subject  to   सीमाएं  , as  साथ  libel  ,   बदनामी   ,   obscenity   ,   राजद्रोह  ( including  ,  for  उदाहरण  inciting  जातीय  hatred  )   ,   कापीराइट  violation  ,   रहस्योद्घाटन  of information that is classified  or   वरना  .
the  right to freedom of expression  is  recognized as a human  सही  under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration  of   इंसान  Rights and recognized  in  international human rights  विधि   in   the  International Covenant  on  Civil  और   राजनैतिक  Rights (  iccpr   )  .
आलेख  19 of  the  ICCPR states  कि   ``   [   e  ]  veryone  shall  have  the right  to  hold  राय   बगैर  interference  ''  and `` everyone shall have  the   सही   to   स्वतंत्रता  of  अभिव्यक्ति  ; this right shall  शामिल  freedom  to   तलाश   ,   प्राप्त  and impart information and ideas  of   सब  kinds , regardless  of   frontiers  , either  orally   ,   in  writing or  in  print ,  in  the  रूप  of art  ,   or  through  कोई  other  मीडिया  of  उसके  choice  ''  .
आलेख  19 goes on to say that  the  exercise  of  these rights  carries  ``  खास  duties and responsibilities ``  और   may   ``  therefore be  विषय   to   निश्चित   प्रतिबंध  '' when  जरुरी  ``  [   f   ]   or  respect of  the   अधिकारों  or  प्रतिष्ठा   of  others  ''  or  ``   [  f ]  or   the   सुरक्षा   of  national security  or   of   पब्लिक  order ( order  पब्लिक   )  , or  of  public  स्वास्थ्य   or   नैतिकता  '' .
Freedom  of  speech  may  be legally  curtailed   in  some  धार्मिक   विधिक   प्रणालियों  and in  धर्मनिरपेक्ष   jurisdictions  where  it   is   मिला  to cause religious offense ,  ऐसे  as the British  जातिगत  and Religious Hatred  अधिनियम   2006   .
सिडनी  Harbour from the air ,  प्रर्दशित   the  Opera House , the CBD ,  गोलाकार  Quay , the Bridge , the  parramatta  River , North  सिडनी   और  Kirribilli  in  the foreground
the  Sydney Harbour Bridge  is   a  steel through  मेहराब   सेतु   आरपार  Sydney Harbour  कि   carries   रेल  ,  vehicular   ,  bicycle and  पैदल  traffic  between  the Sydney central business  ज़िला   (  CBD  )  and the North Shore .
the   नाटकीय   दृश्य   of  the  सेतु   ,   the  harbour  ,  and the  आसपास  Sydney  ओपेरा   हाउस  is an  iconic   चित्र  of  सिडनी  ,  नई  South Wales , and Australia .
the  bridge  is   nicknamed   ``   the  Coathanger ''  क्युकी   of  its arch-based  डिज़ाइन  .
Under the directions of Dr  j.j.c   .  Bradfield  of  the NSW Department of Public  works  ,  the   सेतु  was  designed   और  built by  अंग्रेजों  firm  dorman  Long and Co Ltd  of  Middlesbrough  और   खोली   in   1932   .
the  bridge  's  design was  बहकावे   by   the   नरक  Gate Bridge  in   नई   यॉर्क  .
It  थी   the   संसार   's  widest  long-span  bridge , at 48.8  मीटर  (  160   फीट   )  wide  ,  until  निर्माण  of the  नई  Port  मन   सेतु   in  Vancouver  .
It is  भी   the   पांचवां  longest  spanning-arch  bridge in the world ,  और   it   is  the  tallest   स्टील  arch bridge  ,  measuring  इससे  top to  जल   स्तर  .
जबतक  1967 the  harbour   सेतु   थी   सिडनी  's  tallest  structure .
The  हवाई  hotspot  is  a  volcanic  hotspot located near  the  namesake Hawaiian Islands  ,   in   the   उत्तरी   प्रशांत   समंदर  .
एक   of   the   सबसे   well-known  and  heavily   पढ़ाई   हॉटस्पॉट  in  the  world ,  the   हवाई  plume  is  responsible  लिये   the  creation  of  the Hawaiian  –   सम्राट  seamount chain  ,   an   over  5,800 kilometres  (   3,600  mi  )   long   कड़ी  of volcanoes , four of which are  क्रियाशील  , two of which are  dormant  ,  और  more than 123 of which are extinct ,  अनेक   having   चूंकि   महरूम   मैदान  beneath the waves  by  erosion  as   seamounts   और  atolls .
The  कड़ी   extends  from south  of   the  island  of   हवाई   to  the  किनारे  of the  aleutian  Trench  ,  near the eastern edge of  रूस  .
While  सबसे  volcanoes are created by  geological  activity at tectonic plate boundaries , the  हवाई  hotspot  is   स्तिथ   दूर  from nearby plate boundaries  ;   the   क्लासिक   हॉटस्पॉट   सिद्धान्त   ,  first  प्रस्तावित  in  1963  by John Tuzo Wilson ,  proposes   कि   a   सिंगल  ,  फिक्स्ड  mantle  plume  builds volcanoes that  तब  , cut off from their source by the  गति   of  the Pacific  थाली   ,   become  increasingly inactive  और   आखिरकार  erode below sea level  over  millions  of   सालो  .
according  to  इस  theory  ,   the  nearly  60°  bend  separating   the  Emperor and Hawaiian segments of the chain was  caused   by   a   अचानक  shift in  the   गति   of  the Pacific  थाली  .
in  2003  ,  fresh  investigations  of this  irregularity  led to  the   प्रस्ताव   of  a  मोबाईल  hotspot theory  ,  suggesting  कि  hotspots  हैं  mobile , not fixed ,  और  that  the  47 million year old bend was  caused  by  a   शिफ़्ट   in   the  hotspot 's  गति  rather than the  थाली   's  .
Ancient Hawaiians were  the   पहला  to  recognize   the   increasing   आयु  and weathered state  of  the volcanoes  to  the north as they progressed on fishing  रिझाने   साथ  the  आइलैंड्स  .
The volatile state  of   the  Hawaiian  ज्वालामुखी  and their constant battle with the  समुद्र  was  a   प्रमुख  element in  हवाई  mythology , embodied  in  Pele  ,   the  deity  of  volcanoes .
After  the   आगमन  of Europeans on  the  island  ,  in 1880-1881  जेम्स  Dwight  दाना  directed  the  first  औपचारिक  geological  पढ़ाई  of the  हॉटस्पॉट  's volcanics , confirming the  संबंध  long observed  by   the  natives  .
1912  चिह्नित  the founding  of  the  हवाई   ज्वालामुखी  Observatory by volcanologist Thomas Jaggar , initiating continuous  वैज्ञानिक   अवलोकन  of the  आइलैंड्स   .
In the 1970s , a mapping  प्रोजेक्ट  was  initiated   to   लाभ  more  सूचना   परिचय  the complex geology  of  Hawaii  's  seafloor  .
The hotspot has since been tomographically imaged ,  प्रर्दशित  it to be  चौड़ी  and  up  to  गहन  , and  ओलीवाइन  and garnet  -आधारd  studies have shown its  मैग्मा  chamber is approximately  .
In its at least 85 million  सालो   of   कार्यकलाप   the  hotspot has produced an  अनुमानित   of   चट्टान   .
the  chain 's rate of  बहाव   रै   धीरे  increased over  समय  , causing  the   राशि  of time  प्रत्येक  individual volcano is active to decrease  ,   इससे   18  million  सालो  for  the  76 million year  बूढ़ा  Detroit  seamount  , to  बस   अंतर्गत   900,000  for  the   एक  million year-old Kohala ; on the  अन्य  hand  ,  eruptive volume has increased  इससे  per year  to  about  .
overall   ,  this has caused  a  trend towards  अधिक  active  लकिन  quickly-silenced  ,  closely spaced  volcanoes—whereas  volcanoes  on  the  निकट  side of the  हॉटस्पॉट  overlap each other (  forming  such superstructures as Hawaii  द्वीप   और   the  ancient Maui Nui )  ,  the oldest  of   the  Emperor seamounts  हैं  spaced  as  far as apart  .
दाउद   पामर  , director  of   the  show  ,   घोषित  that  the  season  4  finale  is   the   श्रेणी   finale  because Nickelodeon  रद्द  the show  .
Petitions  हैं  being signed to bring  the  show for a fifth season .
The show  airs   on   treehouse  TV Canada and  उपनाम   jr.  ( formerly  noggin  ) .
एडी  and the Cruisers  is  a  1983  American film directed  by  Martin  डेविडसन   साथ   the  screenplay written  by   the  director  और   arlene  Davidson ,  आधारित  on  the   अनोखा   by  P. F. Kluge .
it   थी  marketed  साथ  the tagline  ``   विद्रोही  .
रॉकर  .
प्रेमी  .
Idol .
Vanished  .  ''
osteonecrosis   of  the  जबड़ों  (  onj  ) is  a  severe  अस्थि  disease  कि   affects  the  maxilla  and  the  mandible  .
Various forms of ONJ  have   महरूम  described  over  the last 160  सालो  ,  और  a number of  कल्याणकारी  have  महरूम  suggested in the literature .
Osteonecrosis of the jaws  संबद्ध  with bisphosphonate therapy  ,  required by some  कर्कट  treatment  regimens  , has been identified  और  defined  as   a  pathological  एंटिटी  since  2003  .
The possible risk from lower oral doses  of   bisphosphonates  , taken  by  patients to  prevent  or treat  ऑस्टियोपोरोसिस   ,   remains  uncertain .
Various treatment  विकल्प  have been  छान  ,  however  severe cases of ONJ  स्टिल   आवश्यकता  surgical removal of the  प्रभावित   अस्थि  .
A thorough  इतिहास  and  assessement  of  pre-existing   प्रणालीगत   समस्याएं  and possible sites of  दंत  infection are required to  सहायता  prevent  the   कंडीशन  , especially if bisphosphonate therapy is considered .
The Boston  रेड   sox  are a  पेशेवर   बेसबॉल   टोली  based  in   बोस्टन   ,   मैसाचुसेट्स   ,  and  a   सदस्य  of  प्रमुख  League  बेसबॉल   's   अमरीकी  League Eastern Division  .
संस्थापित  in as one  of  the  अमरीकी   लीग  's  आठ  charter franchises  ,   the  Red  sox  's home ballpark has  महरूम  Fenway Park since  .
The  ``   रेड   sox   ''  name  थी   चुनी  by  the  team owner ,  जॉन  I.  टेलर  , around  ,  following  पिछला   बोस्टन  teams  कि  had been known as the  ``  Red Stockings `` .
They have played  in   11  World  श्रेणी  ,  जीतना  7  .
Boston was  a  dominant  टोली  in the new league , defeating  the  Pittsburgh Pirates in the  पहला  World Series in and winning four more championships by .
However ,  वे  then went  into   एक  of the  longest  championship droughts in baseball history ,  पुकारा   by  some  the  `` Curse  of   the   bambino  ``  बाद  its alleged  शुरूआत   साथ   the  Red  sox  's  बिक्री   of  Babe Ruth  to  the  प्रतिद्वंद्वी  Yankees two  सालो  after their world championship  in  1918  ,  an 86-year wait  पहले   the  team 's  छठे   संसार   चैंपियनशिप  in .
However ,  the   टोली  's  इतिहास   दौरान   कि   काल   थी   hardly   एक  of futility ,  लकिन  was rather  punctuated  with  कुछ  of  the  most  यादगार  moments in World  श्रेणी  history  ,   सहित   enos  Slaughter 's ``  mad   डैश   ``   in   ,  the ``  नामुमकिन  Dream  ``  of ,  कार्लटन  Fisk  's  home  चलाएं  in  ,  and  विधेयक  Buckner  's  error in  .
Red  sox  history has also been  चिह्नित  by  the  team 's  तीव्र   फंसने   साथ  the New York Yankees , arguably the  fiercest   और  most historic in North  अमरीकी  professional sports .
the   बोस्टन  Red Sox are owned  by  Fenway Sports Group , who  भी  own  लिवरपूल   फ़ुटबॉल  Club  of   the   प्रीमियर  League  in   इंग्लैण्ड  .
The  रेड   sox  are consistently one of  the  top  एमएलबी   टीमों  in  औसत   सड़क   उपस्थिति   ,  while the small capacity of  fenway  Park  रोकता  them from  अग्रणी  in  overall  attendance .
इससे  May  15   ,  2003  to   अप्रैल  10 ,  2013  ,  the  Red Sox  बेची   आउट  every home game-a total of 820 games ( 794 regular season ) for a major  पेशेवर   खेल   रिकार्ड   कि  lasted  लगभग   a  decade .
Mince  पाई  filled with mincemeat
mincemeat   is  a mixture  of  chopped  सूखी  fruit , distilled spirits and spices ,  और  sometimes beef suet  ,  beef ,  or  venison .
Originally  ,   mincemeat   सदा  contained meat  .
अनेक  modern recipes contain  बीफ  suet ,  हालांकि  vegetable  shortening   is   sometimes  used in  इसके   प्लेस  .
Variants of mincemeat  हैं  found  in   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , Brittany , Canada ,  उत्तरी   यूरोपीय   ,  Ireland  ,  South  अफ़्रीकी   ,  the United  किंगडम  and the United States  .
In  कुछ   देशों  the  पद  mincemeat refers to  minced   or   मैदान  meat  .
डायना   ,  Princess of Wales (  डायना   frances   ;  née  स्पेंसर   ;  1  जुलाई  1961 –  31  August 1997  )   थी  the first  बीवी  of  चार्ल्स  ,  प्रिंस   of  Wales ,  the  eldest  बेटे   और  heir apparent  of  Queen Elizabeth II  .
She was well known  लिये  her fund-raising  कार्य  for international charities and  as   an  eminent  हस्ती  of the  लेट   20th   सदी  .
Her  विवाह   to  the Prince  of  Wales on  29   जुलाई   1981  was held  at  St Paul 's Cathedral and  देखी   by  a  वैश्विक  television audience of over  750   लाख  .
जबकि  married  वो   bore   the  titles Princess of Wales  ,   duchess   of  Cornwall , Duchess  of   rothesay   ,  Countess  of  Chester and Baroness of  renfrew  .
the  marriage  उत्पादित  two  बेटे  , the princes  विलियम   और  Harry , who  became  second  और  third in  लकीर  to the British throne  .
Diana was  born  into an aristocratic English family  साथ  royal ancestry .
वो   थी  the  चौथी   चाइल्ड  of John Spencer , 8th  अर्ल  Spencer and  उसके   बीवी  Frances ,  बेटी  of  मौरिस  Roche ,  4th   सामन्त   fermoy  .
She became a public figure  साथ  the announcement of  उसके  engagement .
She also received  मान्यता   लिये  her  दान  work  और  for  उसके  support  of   the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Campaign to Ban Landmines .
इससे  1989 ,  वो  was  the   अध्यक्ष   of  the  ग्रेट  Ormond Street Hospital  लिये   children   ,  in addition to  दर्जनों   of  other charities .
Diana  remained   the   ऑब्जेक्ट  of worldwide media  scrutiny  during  और  after her  विवाह   ,   जिससे  ended  in  divorce on 28  अगस्त  1996 .
मीडिया   ध्यान   और   पब्लिक  mourning  यहूद   considerable  following  उसके   मौत   in  a car crash  in  Paris on 31 August 1997  .
अर्जेंटीना  ,  officially   the  Argentine  गणतंत्र   (  )  ,   is   the   दूसरी  largest  देश   in  both South America  और   the  Latin  अमेरिका  region  .
The country  is  a federation of  23   प्रांतों   और   the  autonomous  नगर  of Buenos  आयर्स   ,   इसके  capital and largest city .
it   is  the  आठवीं   -largest   देश   in  the  संसार   by   जमीन   क्षेत्रफल  and the  largest  among Spanish-speaking  राष्ट्र   by  geographical area of 2,780,400  km2  and is  the  fourth by population , with over 41  लाख   लोगों   .
Argentina is a founding  सदस्य   of   the  United  राष्ट्र  ,  mercosur  ,  the  Union  of   दक्षिण  American  राष्ट्र  , the  संगठन   of  Ibero-American  राज्य  ,  the  World  बैंको  Group and  the  World Trade Organization , and is one  of   the  G-15 and G-20  प्रमुख  economies  .
अर्जेंटीना  is located  in   दक्षिण  America , bordered by Chile  to   the   वेस्ट  and south , Bolivia and Paraguay to the north  और   ब्राज़ील   और  Uruguay to  the   पूर्वोत्तर  .
अर्जेंटीना  claims sovereignty over  भाग  of  अंटार्कटिक   ,  the  फ़ॉकलैंड   आइलैंड्स  ( ) and South  जॉर्जिया   और   the   दक्षिण   सैंडविच   आइलैंड्स  .
Argentina is  the  successor state of the Viceroyalty  of   the   río  de  la  Plata  ,  an overseas  उपनिवेश   of  the  स्पेनी   साम्राज्य   .
Argentina  घोषित  independence  दौरान   the   अर्जेंटाइन  War of Independence  ,   जिससे   थी   followed   by  the Argentine Civil  युद्धों  during most  of   the  19th  सदी  .
the   देश  faced  अनेक  military  coups  and political instability during the 20th century ,  साथ  with periodic  आर्थिक  crisis that continue to  इस  day  .
a   पहचाना  Southern Cone power ,  और   मध्य   शक्ति  , Argentina  is  Latin America  's  third-largest economy ,  साथ  a  ``  very high ''  दरजा  on the Human  विकास  index  .
भीतर  Latin America  ,   अर्जेंटीना   रै  the fifth  उच्चतम   नाममात्र  GDP per capita and the highest in  खरीदना  power  शर्तें  .
The  legatum   संस्थान   have  argued  कि   the  country has  a  `` foundation  लिये  future growth  due  to its market size , levels  of   विदेशी   सीधा   निवेश   ,   और   प्रतिशत   of   high-tech  exports  as   share  of  कुल  manufactured goods '' ,  और   it   is  classed  by  investors as  मध्य  emerging  अर्थव्यवस्था  .
अर्जेंटीना  is the  लैटिन  American country  साथ  the  सबसे   नोबेल   पुरस्कार  ,  लिये  a  कुल   of   पाँच  ,  सब  obtained during the second half of the  बीसवीं   सदी  .
The country has three  नोबेल   पुरस्कार   in  science and  दो  of peace .
the   सबसे  important  पहलुओं   of  science  और   प्रौद्योगिकी  in Argentina  हैं  concerned with medicine ,  नाभिकीय  physics  ,   जैवप्रौद्योगिकी  ,  nanotechnology   ,   स्पेस  and rocket  प्रौद्योगिकी   और   अनेक  fields  सम्बन्धित  to  the  country 's Main Economic  क्रियाएँ  .
the  country  भी  has  the  mega exhibition center  of  science , technology  ,  industry and  आर्ट  that  हैं   लैटिन  America 's  largest  .
Hickory is  a   नगर   in  Catawba County , with parts  भी   in  Burke  काउंटी   और   काल्डवेल  County .
The city  's   2010   अनुमानित  population is 40,010 .
Hickory is the principal city  in   the  Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton  एमएसए  ,  in   जिससे   the   जनसांख्यिकी   at  the 2010 Census was  365,497  .
polyethylene  terephthalate (  sometimes   लिखा  poly ( ethylene terephthalate  )   )  ,  commonly  abbreviated PET , PETE  ,  or  the   obsolete   petp  or PET-P ,  is   a  thermoplastic polymer resin of  the   पॉलिएस्टर  family and is  प्रयुक्त   in   सिंथेटिक   मछली  ; beverage ,  खाना   और  other  द्रव  containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering  resins  often in combination with  कांच   रेशा  .
the   पद  polyethylene terephthalate  is  a  सोर्स   of   भ्रम  because this  पदार्थ  ,  पालतु  , does not  contain  polyethylene .
यूँ  ,  the   वैकल्पिक  form  ,   बहु  ( ethylene terephthalate  )   ,   is  often used in scholarly journals for  the  sake of accuracy and clarity  .
depending  on its processing and thermal history  ,  polyethylene terephthalate  may   मौजूद  both as an  amorphous  (  पारदर्शी  ) and  as  a semi-crystalline polymer .
the  semicrystalline  सामग्री  might appear transparent  (  particle  आकार   <  500 nm ) or  अपारदर्शी   और   श्वेत  ( particle  आकार  up  to  a few microns ) depending on  इसके   क्रिस्टल  structure and  कण   आकार  .
Its  मोनोमर  (  bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate  )  can   be  synthesized by the esterification reaction between terephthalic acid  और  ethylene glycol with water  as   a   byproduct   ,   or   by  transesterification reaction between  एथिलीन  glycol and  dimethyl   terephthalate   साथ  methanol as  a   byproduct   .
बहुलकीकरण  is through a  polycondensation   प्रतिक्रिया  of the monomers (  किया  immediately after esterification/transesterification )  साथ  water as the  byproduct  .
The  बहुमत  of the world  's  PET  उत्पादन   is  for synthetic  मछली  ( in excess  of  60 % ) , with bottle production  हिसाब   लिये  around 30 % of global demand .
in   the  context of textile  अनुप्रयोग  , PET  is   referred   to  by its common  नाम   ,  `` polyester ,  ''  whereas  the  acronym `` PET  ''   is   generally   प्रयुक्त   in   संबंध   to  packaging  .
पॉलिएस्टर   makes   up  about  18  %  of  world polymer production and  is  the third-most-produced polymer  ;   polyethylene  (  pe  )  और  polypropylene  (   pp  ) are  पहला  and second  ,  respectively .
पालतु   consists   of   polymerized  units  of   the   मोनोमर  ethylene terephthalate , with  repeating   c10h8o4  units  .
PET  is   commonly   recycled   ,  and  रै   the  number ``  1  ''  as  its  रीसाइक्लिंग  symbol .
louisiana   थी  admitted  to   the   संघ   on   अप्रैल  30 , 1812  ,   और  elects senators to Classes 2 and  क्लास   3  .
Its current  सीनेटरों  are Democrat Mary Landrieu  और   रिपब्लिकन  David Vitter  .
Black pudding ,  रक्त   खीर   or  blood sausage  is   a  type of sausage  बना  by cooking blood or  सूखी  blood with  a   फिलर   जबतक   it   is  thick enough to  congeal  when  cooled  .
The  डिश  exists  in  various  संस्कृतियों   इससे   एशिया  to  यूरोपीय  and the  americas  .
Pig , cattle ,  शीप   ,  duck  ,   और   बकरी  blood  can  be  प्रयुक्त   depending  on different countries .
In Europe  और   the  Americas  ,   ठेठ   fillers  include meat , fat  ,  suet  ,   ब्रैड   ,  cornmeal  ,   मीठी   आलू  , onion  ,  chestnuts  ,  barley ,  और  oatmeal .
In Spain  ,  Portugal and Asia  ,   आलू  is  प्रायः   replaced   by  rice .
Stakeholder may  refer   to:
शेयरधारक   (  corporate ) , a person , group ,  संगठन   ,  member  or  system who affects or can be affected by  an  organization 's actions
Stakeholder , an  एंटिटी   कि   can  be affected by  the  results of that in which they are said to  be  stakeholders ,  i.e.   ,  that  in   जिससे  they have a stake .
प्रोजेक्ट  stakeholder , a person ,  समूह   or   संगठन   साथ   an   ब्याज   in  a project
Stakeholder  सिद्धान्त   ,  a theory that identifies  और   मॉडल  the groups  जिससे  are  हितधारकों   of   a   निगम  or project
शेयरधारक  analysis ,  the  process  of  identifying  those  affected by a project  or   इवेंट
Stakeholder ( law )  ,  a third  पार्टी  who  temporarily  holds money or property  जबकि   इसके   मालिक  is  स्टिल  being  संकल्पित
जोकर  Smight  (  March  9  , 1925 -  सितंबर  1 , 2003  )   थी  an American theatre and  फिल्मी   निदेशक   .
Smight was born  in   मिनियापोलिस  , Minnesota and  गई   to   स्कूल  with future actor  पीटर  Graves  .
उसके  film credits include The Traveling Executioner  ,   खरगोश   ,   चलाएं  ,  मीत  Couples  ,   मिडवे  , Harper  ,  Airport  1975  ,  फटकार  Alley and  the  Emmy Award -winning  एडी   ,   as   खूब   as  many  एपीसोड  of  टेलीविज़न   श्रेणी   ऐसे  as The Twilight Zone and The Alfred Hitchcock  घंटा  .
He also  निर्देशित  the  1960  Broadway  खेल   the  49th  cousin  and composed the music  लिये  the film adaption of  फेंकें   of  Thunder  सुन  My Cry  .
Smight died from  कर्कट   in   लॉस   एंजिल्स   ,   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
dmitri   ivanovich   mendeleev  ( ;  8   फ़रवरी  1834 –  2  February  1907   o.s  .  27   जनवरी  1834 – 20 January 1907 )  थी  a  रूसी   केमिस्ट  and inventor  .
He formulated  the  Periodic Law , created his own version  of  the  आवधिक   तालिका  of elements  ,  and used  it   to   सही  the properties  of   कुछ   already   खोजा  elements and  भी  to  भविष्यवाणी   the   गुण  of elements yet  to  be discovered  !
Modesto ( Spanish for  ``  modest  ''   )   ,   officially  the  नगर   of  Modesto ,  is   the   काउंटी  seat and largest city of  stanislaus   काउंटी   ,  California  ,   संयुक्त  States .
साथ   a  population  of  approximately 201,165 at the  2010  census  ,  Modesto  बाँधने  as the 18th largest  नगर  in  the  state  of  California  .
The  modesto  Census County Division  ,  which  शामिल  the  शहरों  of Ceres  और  Riverbank  ,  has  a   जनसांख्यिकी  of 312,842 as of  2010  .
Modesto  is   स्तिथ  in  the  central valley  क्षेत्रफल  of Northern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ,  90  miles  उत्तर  of  fresno   ,  92 miles  ईस्ट   of  San  फ्रांसिस्को  , 68  मील  south  of   the   राज्य   पूंजी  of Sacramento ,  66   मील  west of  yosemite   नेशनल   पार्क   ,  and  24  miles  दक्षिण  of Stockton .
Modesto ,  a   29-time   पेड़  City  यूएसए   honoree   ,  is surrounded by rich farmland , lending  to  a  रैंकिंग  for the county  as  6th among all California counties  in   फार्म   उत्पादन   .
led  by  मिल्क  , almonds  ,  chickens ,  अखरोट   ,  and  मकई   साइलेज  ,  the   काउंटी  grossed  nearly  $  3.1  billion in agricultural production in  2011  .
Modesto  थी  immortalized in  the  1973 George Lucas film  अमरीकी  Graffiti .
The  पुरस्कार   जीतना  film captured the spirit of ``  cruising   ''  and friendship  on  10th and  11th   गलियों  in  1962  and  led  to the revival of 1950 's  nostalgia  that included the TV show Happy Days  और  the  अन्य  spin-offs .
रॉन   हावर्ड   ,  Harrison  घाट  and  रिचर्ड  Dreyfuss starred in  the  film  .
The  साउंडट्रैक  was a huge success .
निदेशक  George  लुकास  is  a  native  of  Modesto  ,  graduating  इससे  Downey  ऊँची  School in  1962  .
The  gallup-healthways  Well-Being Index for  2011  , which interviews 1,000 participants  रोज़  and asks individuals  to   assess  their jobs , finances ,  शारीरिक   स्वास्थ्य  , emotional  राज्य  of mind  और  communities , ranked Modesto 126  आउट  of the 190  शहरों   surveyed  .
In December  2009   ,   फोर्ब्स  ranked Modesto  48th  out of 100 among  ``  Best Bang-for-the-Buck  शहरों   ''  .
in  this ranking , Modesto ranked 8th in housing  affordability   और   सफर   समय  but also ranked 86th in job forecast growth and 99th in  foreclosures   .
स्वतंत्रता  Day ,  commonly   ज्ञात   as   the   चौथी   of   जुलाई   ,   is  a  संघीय   अवकाश  in the United  राज्य   commemorating  the adoption of  the   घोषणा  of Independence  on   जुलाई   4  , 1776 ,  declaring   स्वतंत्रता   इससे  the Kingdom of Great Britain  .
Independence  दिन   is  commonly associated with  आतिशबाजी   ,  parades , barbecues  ,  carnivals , fairs , picnics  ,   कॉन्सर्ट  , baseball games , family reunions  ,   और   राजनैतिक   भाषणों  and  ceremonies   ,  in addition  to  various  अन्य  public and private events celebrating the  इतिहास   ,   सरकारी   ,  and  परंपराओं  of the United States .
Independence  दिन   is   the   नेशनल   दिन  of the United States  .
A gender  प्रतीक  denotes the  sex   of  an  सजीव  or  characterizes  an  एजेंट  by  लिंग  .
The two standard gender symbols denoting male  ♂   और  female ♀  हैं  derived  इससे  astrological  प्रतीकों  ,  denoting  the classical planets Mars  और  Venus  ,  respectively .
ये   प्रतीकों  have been in  उपयोग   चूंकि  the Renaissance also denoting  तत्व  in alchemy  ,  specifically  the  metals iron and  तांबे   .
They were first  प्रयुक्त  to  denote  the effective gender of plants (  i.e  . sex of  व्यक्तिगत  in  a  given  crossbreed  , since most plants are  hermaphroditic  ) by  carolus  Linnaeus  in  1751  .
A leasehold estate  is   an  ownership of a  अस्थाई  right  to   थाम  land or property  in  which a lessee  or  a  किरायेदार  holds rights of  रियल  property by some form of title from  a  lessor or  landlord   .
Although a  किरायेदार  does hold  अधिकारों  to real property  ,   a   leasehold  estate  is   typically   माना  personal  प्रॉपर्टी   .
Leasehold is  a  form of  जमीन   कार्यकाल   or   प्रॉपर्टी   कार्यकाल  where one  पार्टी   खरीदता  the right  to  occupy  जमीन  or  a  building for a given length  of  time .
As lease is a  विधिक  estate  ,   leasehold   एस्टेट  can be  खरीदा   और   बेची  on  the  open  मार्केट   .
A  leasehold   यूँ  differs  इससे  a freehold or fee simple where the  स्वामित्व   of  a property  is  purchased  outright  and thereafter  आयोजित  for an indeterminate length of time ,  और   भी   differs  from  a   tenancy  where a property is  let  ( rented  )  on a  आवधिक  basis such as weekly or  मासिक   .
जबतक   the  end  of   the  lease period  (   प्रायः   measured  in decades or centuries ; a 99  साल  lease is quite common  )   the  leaseholder  रै   the  right  to   remain   in  occupation as an  assured  tenant paying an agreed rent  to  the owner  .
Terms  of   the   अनुबंध  are contained in a lease , which  रै   तत्व  of  अनुबंध  and property  विधि  intertwined  .
The term estate for  सालो  may occasionally be  प्रयुक्त  .
This refers to a leasehold  एस्टेट  for  कोई  specific period  of  time  (   the  word  ``  years  ''  is misleading )  .
An estate for  सालो   is  not  automatically   नवीनीकृत   .
colloquially  , ``  पट्टे  '' and ``  पट्टे  ``  हैं  often a  formalization   of   a  longer , specific  काल  as  compared  with a  ``   rental  '' that created a tenancy  at   होगा  ,  terminable  or  बेदर्दी   at  the end of a short  काल  .
ओलिविया  ( also known  as   स्वागत  to  the   संसार  of  the  Pig Olivia ) is  a  British-American  children  's  एनिमेटेड  television  श्रेणी  produced  by   मीडिया  company  chorion  and based  on  Ian  falconer  's books .
it   is  seen on Nick Jr. in  the  US , Milkshake  !
,  उपनाम   jr.  in the UK and Ireland , and Disney Junior in Latin America and Brazil  ,  Treehouse TV in Canada  .
the   दिखाएँ  has won  a  silver  अभिभावक  '  चुनाव  Award for  इसके  positive  स्टोरी  lines  और   वर्ण  .
स्थान   of   पनामा   between   प्रशांत  ( bottom ) and Caribbean ( top ) ,  साथ   कनाल   at  top center
The  पनामा  Canal  (  )  is   a  ship canal in  पनामा  that connects  the  Atlantic  समंदर   (  via the Caribbean  समुद्र   )  to the Pacific  समंदर   .
The canal  कटौती  across the Isthmus  of   पनामा  and is  a   कुंजी   conduit  for  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  maritime trade .
There are locks at  प्रत्येक  end to lift ships  up  to Gatun Lake  (   ऊपर  sea-level  )  .
gatun  Lake was  निर्मित  to reduce  the   राशि   of   कार्य  required  लिये   the  canal .
The current locks  हैं  wide .
A  तीसरा  , wider  लेन  of  ताले  is being built  .
फ़्रांस  began  कार्य  on the canal in 1881 , but had  to   रोकें  because of engineering problems  और  high  मृत्यु  due  to   बीमारी  .
The  संयुक्त   राज्य  (  us   )  later took  over  the project  और   took   a  decade to complete  the  canal  in   1914  , enabling  जहाजों  to  avoid  the lengthy Cape Horn  रूट   around   the  southernmost tip of South  अमेरिका   (   via  the Drake  ड्योढ़ी  )  or  to  navigate  the Strait  of  Magellan  .
एक  of the largest and most difficult  अभियान्त्रिकी  projects  कभी  undertaken , the Panama Canal  शॉर्टकट  made  it  possible for ships to  सफर   between  the  अटलांटिक  and Pacific  महासागर   in  half  the  time  previously   जरूरी   .
The  shorter   ,  faster , safer route  to  the US West Coast  और   to  nations in and along the  प्रशांत  Ocean allowed those  स्थान  to become more  एकीकृत  with the world economy  .
दौरान  this time , ownership of  the  territory that is  अभी   the   पनामा  Canal  थी   पहला   कोलम्बियाई  , then French , and then  अमरीकी  ; the  संयुक्त  States completed the construction  .
The canal  थी   लिया   over  in 1999  by  the Panamanian  सरकारी  ,  as  long  नियोजित  .
सालाना  traffic has risen from  परिचय  1,000  जहाजों  when  the  canal opened in 1914 ,  to   14,702   बरतन   in  2008  ,  the  latter   measuring  a total  of  309.6 million Panama  canal/universal  Measurement System  (  PC/UMS ) tons  .
by   2008  ,  अधिक  than  815,000  vessels had passed  through  the  कनाल  , many  of   उन्हें  much  larger   than   the  original planners could  have  envisioned ;  the  largest ships that can  पारगमन  the  कनाल   आज  are  पुकारा  Panamax  .
The American  समाज  of  सिविल  Engineers  रै   नामित  the  पनामा  Canal  एक  of the  सात  wonders of  the  modern world  .
बेंजामिन  Franklin  (   अप्रैल  17 , 1790 ) was one of the  founding   fathers  of the United States .
A  विख्यात   बहुश्रुत  ,  फ्रैंकलिन  was a leading author  ,   मुद्रक  , political theorist , politician ,  postmaster  , scientist , musician , inventor ,  satirist   ,   नागरिक   activist  , statesman  ,   और  diplomat  .
As  a   वैज्ञानिक   ,  he was a major  फिगर  in the  अमरीकी  Enlightenment and  the  history  of  physics for  उसके  discoveries and theories  regarding   विद्युत  .
he   invented  the lightning rod ,  bifocals  , the  फ्रैंकलिन  stove  ,  a carriage odometer , and the glass 'armonica ' .
he   facilitated   अनेक   नागरिक   संगठन  , including a fire  विभाग  and  a  university  .
फ्रैंकलिन  earned  the   शीर्षक   of   ``  The  पहला   अमरीकी  ''  लिये  his early and  indefatigable  campaigning for  औपनिवेशिक  unity  ;  as  an  author  और  spokesman in London for several colonies , then  as  the  पहला   संयुक्त   राज्य  Ambassador  to   फ़्रांस  , he exemplified the  उभरते   अमरीकी  nation .
Franklin was  foundational  in  धमक  the American ethos  as  a marriage of the practical values of thrift , hard  कार्य   ,   शिक्षा   ,   जातियाँ  spirit  ,   self-governing   संस्थानों  , and opposition  to  authoritarianism both political and religious , with the scientific and tolerant values  of  the Enlightenment  .
in   the   शब्द   of  historian Henry Steele Commager  ,  ``  in   a  Franklin  could  be  मिलाया   the  virtues of Puritanism without  इसके   दोषों   ,  the  illumination  of  the  Enlightenment  बगैर  its heat  .   ''
to  Walter  isaacson   ,  this makes Franklin  ``   the  most accomplished American  of  his age and the most influential  in   inventing   the  type of society  अमेरिका  would  become  .  ''
Franklin  ,   सदा   गर्व  of  उसके  working class roots , became  a   कामयाब   समाचारपत्र  editor and  मुद्रक  in Philadelphia , the  अग्रणी   नगर  in the colonies .
He  थी   भी  partners  साथ  William Goddard  और  Joseph Galloway  the   तीन   of  whom  प्रकाशित   the  Pennsylvania Chronicle  ,  a newspaper  कि   थी  known  लिये  its revolutionary sentiments  और   आलोचनाओं   of  the British monarchy in the American  colonies  .
he  became  धनवान  publishing Poor Richard  's  Almanack and The Pennsylvania  गजट  .
Franklin gained international renown  as   a   वैज्ञानिक   लिये  his famous experiments in electricity  और  for his  अनेक  inventions , especially the lightning  लाठी   .
he   निभाई  a  प्रमुख  role in  establishing  the University of Pennsylvania and  थी  elected the first  अध्यक्ष   of   the  American Philosophical Society .
Franklin became a  नेशनल  hero in  अमेरिका   जब   he  spearheaded  the  effort  to   have  Parliament  repeal  the  unpopular  Stamp  अधिनियम  .
An accomplished diplomat  ,  he  थी   widely   admired  among the  फ्रेंच  as American  मंत्री  to Paris  और   थी  a major figure  in  the  विकास  of positive Franco-American  संबंध  .
लिये  many years  he   थी   the  British  postmaster  for the colonies ,  जिससे  enabled  उसे   to  set up  the  first  नेशनल  communications  संजाल  .
He  थी  active in community affairs , colonial  और  state  राजनीती  , as  खूब   as   नेशनल   और   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  affairs .
इससे  1785 to 1788 ,  he   परोसा   as   राज्यपाल  of  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
toward  the  समाप्त  of  उसके  life , he freed his slaves and became one of  the  most prominent abolitionists  .
His  रंगीन  life and legacy of scientific and political  उपलब्धि   ,  and  औकात  as  एक  of  अमेरिका   's   सबसे  influential Founding Fathers ,  have   देखी  Franklin  सम्मानित  on coinage and  धन  ; warships ;  the  names of many towns  ,  counties  ,  educational  संस्थानों   ,  namesakes , and  कंपनियाँ   ;  and more  than   दो  centuries after his  मौत  , countless cultural references  .
दण्ड  Minds is an American  पुलिस   प्रक्रियात्मक   टेलीविज़न   कार्यक्रम  that premiered September 22 , 2005  ,   on   सीबीएस  .
The  श्रेणी  follows  a  team of  profilers  from the FBI 's  behavioral  Analysis Unit  (  BAU  )  based  in  Quantico  ,  Virginia .
The BAU  is  part of the  एफबीआई   नेशनल   बीच  for  the  Analysis of  हिंसक   अपराधों  .
the  show differs  इससे   अनेक   प्रक्रियात्मक   dramas  by  focusing  on profiling the  दण्ड  , rather than the  अपराधों  itself .
The show  is  produced by  the   चिह्नित  Gordon Company in association with CBS Television Studios  (   originally  Paramount Network  टेलीविज़न  then CBS Paramount  संजाल  Television  )  and ABC  studios   (   originally   touchstone   टेलीविज़न  ) .
CBS announced  in   अक्तूबर   2009  that Legacy  इंटरैक्टिव   होता  develop a  वीडियो  game based on  the  show .
The  खेल   होता  require players to examine  अपराधों  scenes  लिये  clues  to  help solve murder mysteries  .
The  इंटरैक्टिव  puzzle game was released in 2012  ,  but  किया  not feature any of  the   आवाज़ें  of the show  's   डाल  , nor  थी  the  डाल  involved  साथ  the project  .
on  March 14 , 2012  ,   सीबीएस   नवीनीकृत   दण्ड  Minds  लिये  an  आठवीं  season  ,  which  premiered   on  September 26 , 2012 .
``   heart-shaped  Box  ''  is  a   सोंग   by   the   अमरीकी   grunge   बैंड   निर्वाण  ,  लिखा   by  vocalist and  guitarist  Kurt Cobain  .
the  song was released as the first  सिंगल  from  the  group 's  तीसरा  and  फाइनल  studio album , In Utero , in 1993  .
it   थी   एक  of two songs from the  एल्बम  mixed by Scott Litt  in   अनुक्रम   to  augment the original  उत्पादन   by  producer  स्टीव  Albini .
जबकि   निर्वाण  's  लेबल   dgc  Records did  नहीं  release a physical single for sale  in   the  United States ,  ``   heart-shaped  Box  ''  received much  अमरीकी   रेडियो   airplay   ,  reaching  क्रमांक  one on  the   बिलबोर्ड   आधुनिक   चट्टान   ट्रैक्स  chart .
The international release  of   the  single  पहुँचे  number five on the UK Singles  चार्ट   .
The  सोंग   's  music video ,  निर्देशित   by  Anton Corbijn ,  garnered  critical plaudits .
The orbital  गति  of  a   देह   ,  generally a  ग्रह  , a natural satellite , an artificial satellite , or a multiple  स्टार  , is the speed  at   जिससे   it   orbits   around  the barycenter  of  a system , usually around  a   अधिक   विशाल   देह  .
It can  be   प्रयुक्त  to refer  to  either  the  mean orbital speed  ,   the   औसत   गति  as it  completes   an  orbit ,  or   instantaneous  orbital speed , the speed at a  particular  point in its orbit .
the   कक्षीय   गति  at  कोई   स्थिति   in  the orbit can  be  computed from the distance to  the  central  देह   at  that  स्थिति  , and  the  specific orbital energy ,  जिससे   is  independent of position :  the   गतिज   उर्जा  is  the  total energy  ऋण   the  potential energy  .
Brown Palace  आंतरिक   और  Atrium
भूरा   राजमहल  Hotel is the second-oldest  ऑपरेटिंग  hotel  in   डेनवर   ,  Colorado and  is   एक  of  the   पहला   atrium-style   होटल   कभी   निर्मित   .
It is now  संचालित  by Quorum  होटल  and  रिसॉर्ट  .
it  was built in  1892   ,   एक  year later  than  the  ऑक्सफोर्ड  Hotel  .
it  was named  लिये  its original  मालिक   ,   हेनरी   C.   भूरा   ,  and was designed with its odd triangular  आकार  by architect Frank Edbrooke  .
the  hotel is  स्तिथ  at 321 17th St , Denver ,  co  between 17th Street  ,   ब्रॉडवे  and  tremont   street/pl  in  शहर  Denver behind the  गणतंत्र  Plaza .
The main  प्रवेश   द्वार  is  on  Tremont Street  .
dvd-video  is a  उपभोक्ता  video  स्वरूप   प्रयुक्त  to store digital  वीडियो   on  DVD discs ,  और   is   फिलहाल   the  dominant consumer video  स्वरूप   in  Asia , North  अमेरिका   ,   यूरोपीय  ,  और  Australia .
discs   using  the DVD-Video specification  आवश्यकता  a  dvd  drive  और  an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2  डिकोडर   (  e.g.  ,   a  DVD  खिलाड़ी   ,   or  a  कंप्यूटर   dvd  drive with  a  software DVD player ) .
वाणिज्यिक   dvd  movies  हैं   एनकोडेड   using  a  संयोजन   of   h.262/mpeg-2   भाग  2 compressed  वीडियो   और  audio of  varying  formats ( often multi-channel formats as  वर्णित  below )  .
Typically  ,  the  आंकड़ा   रेट   लिये   dvd  movies  सीमाएँ   इससे   3   mbit/s  to 9.5 Mbit/s ,  और   the  bit  रेट  is  प्रायः  adaptive  .
It  थी  first  उपलब्धियाँ   लिये   खुदरा   around   1997  .
the   dvd-video   specification  was  निर्मित   by  DVD Forum  और  can be obtained  इससे  DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a  शुल्क  of  $  5,000  .
The  specification   is  not publicly available , because  प्रत्येक  subscriber  जरूर  sign a non-disclosure agreement  .
Certain information in  the   dvd   किताब  is proprietary  और  confidential  .
The  nautical  mile  (  symbol  m  , NM or  nmi   )   is   a  unit of length  कि  is  परिचय   एक  minute  of  arc  of  latitude measured along any meridian  ,  or  परिचय   एक   मिनट  of arc  of   देशांतर   at  the equator .
by   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   अनुबंध   it   रै   महरूम   नियत  at 1,852  मीटर  exactly  (  about 6,076 feet )  .
it   is  a  non-  SI unit (  हालांकि   स्वीकृत  for  उपयोग  in the International  प्रणाली  of  इकाई   by   the  BIPM  )  used  विशेषकर  by navigators  in  the  शिपिंग  and  विमानन  industries ,  और   भी  in polar exploration .
It  is   commonly  used  in   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  law and treaties  ,  especially regarding  the   हद  of territorial  waters  .
it  developed from the  समुद्र  mile  और  the  सम्बन्धित  geographical mile .
the  nautical mile remains in  उपयोग  by  समुद्र   और   एयर  navigators worldwide because of  इसके   convenience  when  working   साथ  charts .
Most nautical  चार्ट   उपयोग  the Mercator  प्रक्षेप   जिनकी   स्केल   varies  by  परिचय  a factor  of  six from the equator to  80°  latitude , so charts covering large areas can  नहीं   उपयोग   a   सिंगल   रैखिक  scale  .
the   nautical   मील   is  nearly equal to  a  minute  of   अक्षांश   on   a   चार्ट  ,  so  a distance measured with a  चार्ट  divider  can   be   roughly   परिवर्तित  to  nautical   मील   using   the  chart  's  latitude  स्केल   .
shippensburg  is  a   बरो  in Cumberland and Franklin counties in the  u.S.   राज्य  of  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
Settled  in  1730  ,  Shippensburg  झूठ   in  the Cumberland Valley  ,  41  मील  ( 66 km  )   west-southwest  of  harrisburg   ,   और  is part of the  harrisburg–  Carlisle  महानगर   सांख्यिकीय   क्षेत्रफल  .
In  1900  , 3,228 people  जिया  there ; in  1910  , 3,457 ; and  in   1940   ,  5,244 people lived there .
The population was 5,492  at  the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी   .
Shippensburg was  incorporated  as  a   बरो   on   जनवरी  21  ,  1819  .
in   the   पास्ट  , there were  फर्नीचर  factories , engine and pump works , and  अन्य  industrial works  स्तिथ   भीतर   the  town  .
Shippensburg is also the home  of   the   beistle   कम्पनी   ,   the  oldest and largest manufacturer  of   सजावट  and party goods  ,  which  बिकता  its  distinctive  honeycomb paper  सजावट   विश्वव्यापी  .
it   is  also  the  location of  pague  and Fegan  ,   the  oldest continuously operated hardware store in  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
in  May 2012 ,  वोल्वो   निर्माण   उपकरण   began   a  $  100  million  विस्तार  project to bring its American headquarters  to   shippensburg  .
Shippensburg is also  घर   to  Shippensburg  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Pennsylvania , one  of  14 universities  of  the Pennsylvania State System  of   उच्चतर  Education .
Yearly the last full  सप्ताह   of  July  ,  the Shippensburg Community  मेला   is   आयोजित   .
Begun in  1958   ,  the  मेला   बिल्स  itself  as  Pennsylvania 's largest bi-county  मेला  .
The  मेला  includes  agricultural   दर्शाती  , a craft show  ,   खाना   विक्रेता   ,  and  कार्निवल  rides amongst  अन्य  things .
Every summer on the last  शनिवार  of  अगस्त  , Shippensburg  holds   the  Corn Festival , an  इवेंट   कि   brings  regional artisans  और   विक्रेता  to  operate  stands downtown .
the  downtown is closed to  ट्रैफ़िक   लिये  at  तनिक  5 blocks for  सबसे   of  the  दिन  .
औसत   उपस्थिति  at  the   पर्व  is  अनुमानित  at  60,000   -  70,000  प्रत्येक  year .
Black  बालदार  tongue ( BHT  ,   भी   termed  lingua  villosa   nigra  )  refers   to  a  कंडीशन  of the tongue  जहाँ   the  filiform  papillae  elongate with black or brown discoloration  ,  giving a  ब्लैक  and hairy appearance  .
The appearance  may  be alarming ,  लकिन  it  is  a  हानिरहित  condition .
Predisposing  कारकों  include smoking , xerostomia  (  dry  मुँह   )  ,  नरम   आहार  , poor oral  hygiene   और  certain medications  .
प्रबन्धन  is by  improving  oral hygiene , especially scraping  or  brushing the tongue  .
the  IEEE 1394 interface is a serial bus interface  मानक  for high-speed communications  और   isochronous  real-time  आंकड़ा   ट्रांसफ़र  .
it  was developed  in   the  late 1980s and early  1990s  by Apple  ,  who  पुकारा   it  FireWire  .
The  1394   इंटरफ़ेस  is  comparable  to  usb   ,  and often those two technologies are considered together , though USB has more  मार्केट  share .
ठहराना  first  शामिल   firewire  in  कुछ  of its 1999  मॉडल   ,   और  most  ठहराना  computers since  the   साल   2000  have  शामिल  FireWire ports  ,   हालांकि   ,   as   of   2013  , nothing beyond the 800  संस्करण   (  IEEE-1394b )  .
the  interface  is  also  ज्ञात   by  the brand i.LINK ( Sony )  ,  and Lynx  (  Texas  यंत्र   )   .
IEEE 1394 replaced  समानांतर  SCSI  in  many  अनुप्रयोग  , because of lower  क्रियान्वयन   लागत  and  a  simplified ,  अधिक  adaptable cabling system  .
The 1394 standard also defines a  backplane  interface , though this  is  not as widely used .
IEEE 1394  is  the  high-definition  Audio-Video  संजाल  Alliance  (  HANA ) standard  कनेक्शन   इंटरफ़ेस  for A/V  (   audio/visual   )  component communication  और  control .
FireWire is also available in wireless  ,  fiber optic ,  और   समाक्षीय   संस्करण  using  the  isochronous protocols  .
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan (  अक्तूबर  3 ,  1954  – August  27  ,  1990  )  थी   an   अमरीकी   guitarist   ,   singer-songwriter  ,  और   रिकार्ड  producer  .
Often  referred  to  by  his  आद्याक्षर  SRV , Vaughan is best known as a founding member and  नेता   of  Double  ट्रबल  .
Together  साथ  drummer Chris  layton   और  bassist Tommy Shannon , they ignited the  ब्लूज़  revival of the 1980s .
With  a  career spanning seven years , Vaughan and Double  ट्रबल   consistently  sold out concerts while  उनके  albums  अक्सर  went gold .
He was  born  and raised  in  Dallas  ,  Texas , and  लिये   a  short  काल   of  time  जिया   in  Graham , Texas  .
As  the   younger   bhai  of Jimmie  vaughan   ,  Vaughan started playing  the   गिटार  at age  सात  and formed  अनेक  bands  कि   occasionally   performed  in  लोकल  nightclubs .
At age 17 , he  dropped   आउट  of high school  और  moved to  ऑस्टिन  to further  pursue   उसके  musical  करियर  , joining  समूह  such as  krackerjack   ,  the  nightcrawlers  ,  और   the   cobras  .
In 1977  ,  he  formed  Triple Threat  revue  , a band  कि   आखिरकार  evolved into Double Trouble and  regularly   performed   around  Austin .
in  1982 , Vaughan and Double  ट्रबल  performed  at   the  Montreux  जैज़  Festival in  स्विट्ज़रलैंड   ,   catching   the  attention of  संगीतकारों   दाउद   बोवी  and Jackson  browne   .
Bowie asked Vaughan  to  play  on  his upcoming studio album Let 's  नृत्य   ,  while Browne offered  the   बैंड  free use of  उसके   निजी  studio in Los Angeles to  रिकार्ड   an   एल्बम   .
In March  1983  , Vaughan and Double  ट्रबल   यहूद   हस्ताक्षरित   to  Epic  रिकॉर्ड  by  दिग्गज  record producer John Hammond Sr.  और   released  their debut  एल्बम  ,  टेक्सास  Flood in June  of   कि   साल  .
After successful touring ,  the  group  released  the albums  ,  Could  n't  Stand the  मौसम  ( 1984 ) and  आत्मा  to Soul  (  1985 )  ,   the   latter  of which  प्रदर्शित   नई  keyboardist Reese  wynans  .
Although  उसके   करियर  had  progressed   सफलतापूर्वक  , Vaughan  checked  into a  पुनर्वास  hospital in Atlanta  ,  Georgia  to  give  up  a cocaine and  दारू   आदत  and returned to touring  साथ   the  band .
In  जून  1989 , In Step was released  और   अर्जित   उन्हें  a  ग्रैमी  Award  लिये  Best Contemporary Blues Performance .
On August  27  , 1990 , Vaughan was killed  in   a   हेलीकाप्टर   क्रैश  following a performance in East Troy  ,  Wisconsin  .
Vaughan 's uniquely  eclectic   yet   तीव्र  style was derived from a variety of musical  जाति  .
He  थी  influenced by blues musicians  सहित  Albert King  ,  Freddie King ,  ओटिस   फटाफट  ,  और   muddy  Waters  ,   और  rock guitarists such  as  Jimi Hendrix  और  Lonnie  mack   .
उसके  guitar playing reflected the classic blues and pentatonic scales  .
he  has  प्राप्त  wide  नाजुक   मान्यता  for his guitar playing ,  रैंकिंग  at # 6  on  Rolling Stones  सूची   of  `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011 .
he   थी  posthumously  inducted  into  the  Blues Hall  of   कीर्ति  in  2000  and a  मेमोरियल   प्रतिमा  was erected in Austin 's  ऑडिटोरियम  Shores  पार्क  .
Stevie Ray Vaughan  is  widely considered  to   be  one of the greatest musicians  to   आइये  from  the  state  of  Texas .
GigE redirects  यहाँ  .
लिये   the  camera protocol , see GigE vision  .
in   कंप्यूटर   नेटवर्किंग   ,   gigabit  Ethernet  (  GbE or 1  gige  ) is  a  term  describing  various technologies  लिये  transmitting Ethernet frames at a  रेट  of a gigabit per second ( 1,000,000,000  बिट्स  per  दूसरी   )   ,   as   पारिभाषित  by the  आईईईई  802.3-2008 standard .
it  came into use beginning  in   1999   ,  gradually  supplanting   तेज़   ईथरनेट  in  तार  local networks , where  it   performed   considerably   तेज़  .
the  cables and  उपकरण  are very similar to  पिछला  standards  और   यहूद   बहुत  common and  किफायती  by 2010  .
Half-duplex  gigabit  links  कनेक्ट  through hubs  हैं  allowed  by  the  specification   ,  but  full-duplex   उपयोग  with switches is  much   अधिक  common  .
Intel PRO/1000  gt  PCI  संजाल  interface  कार्ड
The main  components  of  a  stamp:
1   .  Image
2  .  perforations
3  .  denomination
4   .  Country  नाम
a   postage  stamp is a small piece  of   पेपर   कि  is  खरीदा  and  प्रदर्शित   on   an  item  of  mail  as   प्रमाण   of  payment  of   postage  .
typically  , stamps are  बना   इससे   खास  paper , with a national  नामांकन  and denomination ( price  )  on the  फेस  , and a gum adhesive  on  the reverse  पक्ष  .
postage   stamps  are  खरीदा  from a postal  प्रशासन  or other authorized  विक्रेता  and are  प्रयुक्त   to  pay  लिये  the  लागत  involved  in  moving  मेल  as  खूब   as  other  कारोबार   necessities  such  as  insurance and  पंजीकरण   .
The stamp’s shape is  प्रायः  that  of  a  छोटी  rectangle of varying proportions ,  हालांकि  triangles  or  other shapes are occasionally used .
The  स्टैम्प  is affixed  to  an envelope  or  other  डाक  cover (  i.e.   ,   पैकेट   ,   बक्सा  , mailing  बेलन  ) that  the  customer  बधाइयां  to send  .
The item is  तब   processed  by  the  postal  प्रणाली  ,  जहाँ   a   postmark   ,   sometimes  known  as  a  रद्दीकरण  mark  ,  is  प्रायः  applied over the stamp and  कवर  ; this  कार्यविधि  marks  the  stamp as used ,  जिससे  prevents its  reuse   .
The  postmark   indicates   the  date and point of origin  of   the   mailing  .
the   mailed   मद  is then  वितरित  to the address  कि  the customer  रै  applied  to  the envelope  or  cover .
Postage stamps have facilitated the delivery  of  mail  चूंकि  the 1840s .
पहले   इस  time  ,   स्याही  and hand-stamps  (   hence   the   शब्द   'stamp  ' ) ,  प्रायः   बना  from wood  or   कॉर्क   ,   यहूद   प्रायः  used to frank the  मेल  and confirm  the  payment  of  postage  .
the   पहला  adhesive  postage  stamp , commonly  referred   to  as the Penny Black  ,  was  जारी  in the  संयुक्त   किंगडम  in 1840  .
the  invention of the  स्टैम्प   थी  a part of  the   attempt  to  सुधार   और   improve  the postal system in  the  United Kingdom  of  Great  ब्रिटेन   और   आयरलैंड  , which in the early 19th  सदी   थी  in disarray and  rife  with  भ्रष्टाचार  .
There are varying  खाते   of  the  आविष्कारक  or inventors of  the   स्टैम्प  .
Before  the  introduction of postage  stamps   ,   मेल  in the  uk   थी  paid for by  the   प्राप्तकर्ता   ,  a system that was  संबद्ध   साथ  an irresolvable  प्रॉब्लम  :  the  costs  of  delivering mail were  नहीं  recoverable by the  डाक  service  जब   प्राप्तकर्ता  were  असमर्थ  or  unwilling  to  अदा  for  वितरित  items  ,  and senders had no incentive  to  restrict  the   क्रमांक  ,  आकार   ,  or  वज़न  of items sent , whether or not they would ultimately  be  paid  लिये   .
the  postage  स्टैम्प  resolved this  समस्या  in a simple and elegant manner , with the  अतिरिक्त  benefit of  रूम  for  an  element  of   सौंदर्य  to be  introduced   .
Later  सम्बन्धित  inventions  शामिल   डाक  stationery such as  prepaid-postage  envelopes  ,  post cards ,  lettercards  ,  aerogrammes  and  wrappers   ,   postage  meters  ,  and , more recently , specialty boxes and  लिफाफे   provided  free to  the  customer by the U.S. postal service  लिये  priority or  एक्स्प्रेस  mailing .
The postage stamp afforded  convenience   लिये   दोनो  the mailer and  डाक   officials   ,  more efficiently  बरामद   लागत  for the postal service , and ultimately  resulted   in  a  बेहतर  ,  तेज़  postal system .
With  the  conveniences stamps offered , their use resulted in greatly  increased  mailings during  the   19th  and  20th  centuries .
Postage  stamps   दौरान   इस  era  यहूद  the  सबसे   लोकप्रिय  way of paying  लिये  mail  ,  but by the  समाप्त   of  the 20th  सदी   यहूद   rapidly   होने   आत  by the  उपयोग   of   metered  postage  और  bulk  mailing  by  व्यवसायों  . )
the  same  परिणाम  with  आदर   to  communications by  निजी   पार्टियों   occurred   over  the  पिछला   दशक  of  the   20th  century and the  पहला   दशक  of  the  21st due to  घटती   लागत  of  long   अलहदा  telephone communications  और   the  development and explosive spread  of   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   mailing  (  ``   e-mail   ''  via the  अंतरजाल   )   और   विधेयक   paying  systems had  .
as   postage  stamps with  उनके   engraved  imagery  began   to  appear  on  a  फैली  basis ,  इतिहासकारों  and collectors began to  लो   सूचना   .
The study of  postage  stamps and their  उपयोग  is  referred   to   as  philately .
स्टैम्प  collecting  can   be   दोनो  a hobby  और  a form of  ऐतिहासिक   पढ़ाई  and  सन्दर्भ  ,  as  government-issued postage  stamps  and their mailing  प्रणालियों   have  always  महरूम  involved with the  इतिहास   of   राष्ट्र  .
The University  of   अलबामा  at Birmingham  (  UAB ) is a  पब्लिक  university  in   बर्मिंघम  in the  u.S.  state of Alabama .
Developing from  an   एक्सटेंशन  center established  in   1936  , the institution  became   an  autonomous  संस्था   in  1969 and is today  एक  of  तीन   संस्थानों  in  the  University of Alabama System .
UAB offers over 140 programs  of   पढ़ाई  in  12   अकादमिक   विभाजन  leading  to  bachelor 's , master 's , doctoral , and  पेशेवर  degrees in  the   सोशल  and behavioral  sciences   ,  the  उदार  arts , business , education  ,   अभियान्त्रिकी  , and  health-related  fields  ऐसे   as  medicine  ,  dentistry , optometry ,  नर्सिंग  ,  और   पब्लिक   स्वास्थ्य  .
The school  is  highly renowned  लिये   इसके  medical research and natural sciences  कार्यक्रम  .
The  uab   स्वास्थ्य   प्रणाली  , one  of   the  largest  अकादमिक   चिकित्सा   centers   in  the United  राज्य  ,  is  affiliated  साथ   the  university  .
UAB Hospital sponsors  रेसिडेंसी  programs in  विभिन्न  medical  specialties  ,  सहित  internal  आयुर्विज्ञान   ,  neurology  ,  surgery ,  radiology   ,  and  anesthesiology   .
uab  Hospital  is   the  only ACS verified  स्तर   i  trauma  बीच  in Alabama ,  as  rated by  the  American College  of  Surgeons Trauma  कार्यक्रम  .
uab   is  the state  's  largest employer  ,  with  अधिक   than   18,000   संकाय  and  स्टाफ   और   over  53,000  कार्य  at the university and in the  स्वास्थ्य  system  .
An estimated  10  percent of the jobs in the Birmingham-Hoover Metropolitan Area  और   1  in 33  कार्य  in the  राज्य  of Alabama are directly  or  indirectly related to UAB  .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों   's  overall annual economic impact was estimated  to  be  $  4.6  अरब   in  2010 .
in  the fall  of   2012  , the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Alabama at Birmingham enrolled 17,999 students from more than 110 countries , including 1,605  freshmen   .
There are plans  to  commence with an `` aggressive  ''  growth in enrollment at UAB  .
The current  uab  President is  dr.  Ray  L.   watts   .
टोफू  , also  पुकारा  bean curd , is a food  बना  by coagulating soy  रस  and then pressing  the  resulting curds into soft  श्वेत  blocks  .
It  is   a  component in many  ईस्ट   एशियाई  and Southeast  एशियाई   व्यंजन   .
वहीँ   हैं  many  अलग  varieties of tofu  ,  including  भैस  tofu and  टोफू  that has been processed in some  रास्ता  .
टोफू   रै  a  हल्का   स्वाद   और   can  be used  in  savory and sweet dishes .
it  is  प्रायः  seasoned or marinated to  सूट  the dish  .
Tofu originated in  प्राचीन   चीन  some 2,000  सालो  ago .
Chinese legend ascribes its invention to prince Liu An ( Chinese  :   劉安   liú  Ān ,  179–122   bc   )   .
टोफू   और   इसके  production  तकनीक  were introduced  into   कोरियाई  and then  जापानी  during the Nara period  .
It spread into other  भाग  of East Asia as  खूब  .
This spread  संभावित  coincided with the spread of Buddhism because it is an important  सोर्स   of  protein in the  शाकाहारी  diet  of  East Asian  buddhism  .
li   shizhen   in  the Ming  राजवंश   वर्णित  a method  of  making tofu  in   bencao  Gangmu .
Tofu  रै  a low calorie  गिनती  , relatively  विशाल   amounts   of  protein , and little fat .
it  is  ऊँची  in  आयरन  and depending  on   the  coagulant used in  निर्माण  , may also  be  high  in   कैल्सियम  and/or magnesium .
Bubbles ( born 1983 )  is  a  आम  chimpanzee ,  ज्ञात   लिये  being the one-time pet of American recording  कलाकार  Michael Jackson ,  जो  bought the  primate  from a Texas research facility in  the   जल्दी   1980s  .
The animal was a frequent  सफर   साथी  to the  सिंगर  , whose  अनुलग्नक  to the  एनिमल  led to  मीडिया  mockery and  ,  among other  कारकों  ,  to   a   पब्लिक   बोध   of  Jackson  as  an eccentric  .
दौरान  the  ख़राब   संसार  Tour  ,   लिये   उदाहरण   ,  Jackson brought  बुलबुले  with  उसे  to Japan  ,   जहाँ   वे  both drank tea  साथ   the  mayor of  ओसाका  .
Bubbles  थी  initially  रखा  at  the   जैक्सन   परिवार   's   घर  in  encino  , Los Angeles ,  लकिन  was  स्थानांतरित  to Neverland Ranch  in  1988 .
वहीँ  ,  he   slept   in  a crib  in  Jackson 's  बेडरूम   ,  used the singer 's  प्रसाधन  , and ate candy in the  neverland   फिल्म   थिएटर  .
in   2003   the   पब्लिक   सीखे  that  ,  like all  खिलाते   chimpanzees   ,  Bubbles had matured into a  विशाल   और   आक्रामक  adult  chimp  unsuitable as  a   साथी   एनिमल  .
He  थी  sent to a  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  animal  प्रशिक्षक  , where he was  reported   to   have   attempted  suicide  .
When the trainer shut down  उसके  operation  in  2004  ,  Bubbles was  स्थानांतरित   to  the Center for  ग्रेट  Apes  ,  a sanctuary  in  Wauchula  ,   फ्लोरिडा   ,   जहाँ  he  रै  lived  चूंकि  2005  .
Muse are an English rock band from  teignmouth  , Devon , which  formed  in  1994   .
The band  consists   of   स्कूल  friends  मैथ्यू  Bellamy ( lead vocals , lead  गिटार  ,  पियानो   ,   keyboards   ,  keytar  )  , Christopher  wolstenholme  (  बास  , vocals , keyboards , rhythm guitar , harmonica ) and  डोमिनिक  Howard  (  drums , percussion  ,  synthesisers ,  sampling  )  .
Since the  रिलीज  of their  2006  album  ब्लैक  Holes and Revelations , keyboardist and percussionist  मॉर्गन  Nicholls  रै  performed live with  the   बैंड  .
चिंतन  are  ज्ञात  for  उनके  energetic  और   हद  live performances and their  संलयन  of many music genres , including space rock ,  प्रगतिशील  rock ,  वैकल्पिक  rock , heavy  मेटल  ,  शास्त्रीय  music and electronica  .
Muse  have   released   छह  studio albums : Showbiz  (  1999  )  , Origin of  सममिति   (   2001   )   ,   absolution  ( 2003 ) , Black  छेद  and Revelations  (   2006  ) , The Resistance (  2009  )  और  The 2nd Law ( 2012 )  .
वे   have  also  जारी   तीन  live albums , Hullabaloo Soundtrack  (  2002 )  ,  which  is  also a compilation  of  B-sides , Absolution  दौरे  (  2005   )  , and HAARP  (   2008  ) , which  दस्तावेज़   the  band 's performances at Wembley  स्टेडियम  in  2007  .
Black Holes and Revelations earned  the   बैंड  a  पारा   पुरस्कार   नामांकन  and a  तीसरा  place finish  in  the NME Albums  of   the   साल  list  लिये  2006 .
चिंतन  have also  जीती   a  collection  of   म्यूज़िक  awards  throughout  their  इतिहास  ,  सहित  five MTV  यूरोपीय  Music  पुरस्कार  ,  छह  Q Awards  ,  eight NME Awards , two Brit Awards —winning  ``   बेहतरीन   अंग्रेजों   सजीव  Act  ''  twice , an  एमटीवी  Video Music  पुरस्कार  , four Kerrang !
Awards and an American  म्यूज़िक   पुरस्कार   .
They were  भी   मनोनीत   लिये   पाँच   ग्रैमी  Awards , of which they  जीती   बेहतरीन   चट्टान  Album  ,  for their fifth  स्टुडियो  album The Resistance ( 2009 )  .
चिंतन   have   बेची  over  15  million  एल्बम   विश्वव्यापी   .
Bloemfontein  (  ,  ;  Dutch for  ``  fountain of  पुष्प   ''   )   is  the  पूंजी   नगर  of  the  Free  राज्य   प्रांत   of   दक्षिण   अफ़्रीकी  ; and ,  as  the judicial  पूंजी   of   the   स्वदेश  ,  एक  of South  अफ़्रीकी  's three national capitals  –   the  other  दो  being  केप  Town  ,   the  legislative  पूंजी   ,   और   पेशकशों  ,  the   प्रशासनिक   पूंजी   .
Bloemfontein is popularly  और  poetically  ज्ञात  as ``  the   नगर   of   गुलाब  `` , owing to the  प्रचुरता  of  ये  flowers and  the  annual rose festival held  वहीँ  .
the  city  's  Sesotho name is Mangaung , meaning ``  प्लेस   of  cheetahs  ``  and  it   रै   महरूम  included  in  the Mangaung  लोकल  Municipality since 2000  .
Bloemfontein  is  situated on dry grassland at , at an  ऊँचाई  of above sea  स्तर  .
The city is  घर  to 369,568 residents , while  the  Mangaung Local  नगरपालिका   रै  a population of 645,455  .
Where  do   we   आइये  From ?
What Are We ?
Where  हैं  We Going  ?
One  of  Post-Impressionist Paul Gauguin 's most famous paintings  .
The  अर्थ  of  जीवन  is a philosophical question concerning  the  significance of  जीवन   or  existence in  सामान्य  .
it   can  also  be  expressed  in  different forms  ,   ऐसे  as `` Why are we  यहाँ   ?  ``  ,   ``   कया  is  जीवन  all  परिचय  ?  ``  , and  ``  What is the  purpose  of existence ? ''
it  has been  the   विषय  of  much  philosophical , scientific  ,  and theological  अटकलें  throughout history  .
There have been a  विशाल  number of proposed answers to  ये  questions  इससे  many different cultural and  वैचारिक  backgrounds .
The meaning of life is  in  the  philosophical  and religious conceptions of  अस्तित्व   ,   सोशल   ties  , consciousness , and happiness  ,  and borders on  अनेक  other issues , such  as   सांकेतिक   अर्थ   ,  ontology  ,   मान   ,   purpose   ,  ethics , good and evil  ,  free  होगा  , the  अस्तित्व   of   एक  or multiple Gods , conceptions  of  God  ,   the  soul , and  the  afterlife .
Scientific contributions focus  primarily   on   describing   सम्बन्धित  empirical facts  परिचय  the universe , exploring  the  context and  पैरामीटर्स  concerning the  'how  ' of life .
विज्ञान  also studies and  can   provide  recommendations for  the  pursuit of well-being and  a   सम्बन्धित   धारणा   of  morality .
An  वैकल्पिक   ,  humanistic approach  मुद्राएँ  the question  ``  What is the meaning  of  my life ?  ''
The value of the question pertaining  to   the  purpose of life may  coincide   साथ  the  उपलब्धि  of ultimate reality  ,  or  a   अहसास  of oneness ,  or   भी  a  अहसास  of sacredness .
Family  guy  creator Seth MacFarlane also  provides   the   आवाज़ें  of  पीटर  Griffin ,  stewie   griffin   ,  Brian  griffin   ,  and  ग्लेन  Quagmire  .
परिवार  Guy  is  an  अमरीकी  animated sitcom that features  पाँच  main voice  अभिनेताओं  ,  और  numerous  नियमित  cast  और  recurring  अतिथि  stars .
the  principal voice cast consists of show  निर्माता  Seth  macfarlane   ,  Alex Borstein  ,  Seth  ग्रीन  , Mila Kunis ( who  replaced  Lacey  chabert   बाद  the  पहला  season )  और  Mike Henry  और   अभी  , the  नई  actor  beau  Osborne  .
Recurring  आवाज़   अभिनेताओं  include Patrick Warburton  ,   आदम   वेस्ट  ,  जॉन   G.   ब्रेनन  ,  निकोल  Sullivan and Jennifer  tilly   ,  and  repeat  guest stars  शामिल   फिलिस  Diller ,  चार्ल्स  Durning  ,  Rush Limbaugh  ,  and Phil LaMarr .
Many cast members  provide   आवाज़ें   लिये  multiple characters  .
the  voice actors ,  in  portraying  the  various  अक्षर  personalities  on  the  दिखाएँ  ,  चित्रण   प्रेरणा  from celebrities and pop culture  .
परिवार  Guy characters have been played  by   अधिक  than one actor , after  सदस्यों  of  the  show left  the   श्रेणी   or  had  conflicting   दायित्वों  .
Kunis was nominated for  an   एनी   पुरस्कार   लिये  voicing Meg  griffin   in  the season 5 episode ``  मुश्किल  Legal `` and MacFarlane  रै  also  जीती  an Emmy  पुरस्कार  for  बकाया  Voice-Over Performance and an Annie Award for  बेहतरीन  Voice Acting in  an   एनिमेटेड  Television  उत्पादन  , though  no  other cast  सदस्य  has won  an   पुरस्कार   लिये  their work  on   the   श्रेणी  .
1911  Illustration  by  Edmund  dulac
``  The Princess  और  the  मटर   ''  (  ;   शाब्दिक  translation  :  `` The Princess  on  the Pea ''  )  is  a  literary fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen about a  यंग  woman  जिनकी  royal identity is established by  a   परीक्षण  of her  शारीरिक   संवेदनशीलता  .
The tale was  पहला   प्रकाशित  with three others  by   andersen  in  an   inexpensive  booklet on 8 May 1835 in  कोपेनहेगन   by  C.A .  reitzel  .
Andersen had  सुना  the story as a  चाइल्ड   ,  and it likely  रै  its source  in  folk material , possibly  originating  from Sweden  as  it is  अनजान  in the Danish oral tradition  .
neither  `` The  राजकुमारी   और   the  Pea  ''  nor Andersen 's  अन्य   किस्से  of  1835   यहूद  well  प्राप्त  by  डैनिश   आलोचकों  , who  disliked  their  कैज़ुअल  , chatty  स्टाइल   ,  and their lack  of   नैतिकता   .
in  1959 `` The  राजकुमारी   और  the Pea  ''  was adapted  to  the  musical   स्टेज  in  a  production called  एकबार   upon  a Mattress  अभिनीत   कैरोल  Burnett .
जर्मनी  Americans  (   )  are citizens of  the  United States  जो   यहूद   either  born  in  Germany or are of German  ancestry  .
They comprise  परिचय   50  million  लोगों  , making  उन्हें   the  largest ancestry  समूह  ahead  of  Irish Americans , African Americans and  अंग्रेज़ी   अमेरिकी  .
वे   comprise  about 1/3  of  the German  diaspora  all  over  the  संसार  .
None of  the   जर्मनी   राज्य  had New World colonies .
नहीं  until the 1670s  किया   the  first  significant  groups of German immigrants arrive in  the   अंग्रेजों  colonies , settling primarily in New York and Pennsylvania .
Immigration continued in  बहुत   विशाल  numbers during the 19th  सदी  ,  साथ   कुछ  eight million arrivals  इससे  Germany  .
वे  were pulled by  the  attractions of  जमीन  and  धार्मिक  freedom ,  और   धकेल  out  of   यूरोपीय   by   shortages  of land and  धार्मिक   or  political oppression  .
Many  arrived   seeking   धार्मिक  or political freedom , others  लिये   आर्थिक  opportunities greater than those in Europe  ,  and others simply for the chance  to   प्रारंभ  fresh in  the   नई  World .
the  arrivals before  1850  were mostly farmers who sought out  the   सबसे  productive  जमीन  ,  जहाँ   उनके   intensive   खेती   तकनीकों  would  अदा  off .
After 1840  ,  many  आए  to cities  ,   जहाँ   ``   germania   ''   —german-speaking  districts—soon  उभरा  .
German Americans  स्थापित   the   पहला   kindergartens   in  the United  राज्य   ,  introduced the  क्रिसमस  tree tradition ,  और  originated  लोकप्रिय  American foods such as  hot  dogs  और  hamburgers .
जर्मनी  American celebrations are held throughout the country , one of the most well-known  होने   the   german-american  Steuben Parade in New  यॉर्क   नगर  , held every  तीसरा  Saturday  in  September .
There are  भी  major annual events in Chicago , Cincinnati ,  मिल्वौकी   ,   पिट्सबर्ग   ,  St. Louis and other cities .
Like  अनेक   अन्य   आप्रवासियों   कि  came to the United States , an overwhelming number  of  people of  जर्मनी  or partial German  descent   have  essentially become Americanized  .
the   प्रस्तावना  to  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  Constitution is a brief introductory statement  of  the Constitution 's fundamental  उद्देश्य   और   guiding  principles .
it   राज्य  in general  शर्तें  , and  न्यायालयों   have   referred   to   it   as  reliable evidence of , the Founding  fathers   '  intentions regarding the  संविधान  's  अर्थ  and  कया  they  hoped  the  संविधान  would achieve  as   it  pertains to  सब  of  the  people of the United  राज्य  .
As  the  phrase , ``  we  the people  ''   suggests   कि   the  new  सरकारी  originates from the people of the United States  और   it  sets into  गति   a   सवाल   as   it  pertains to that  विशाल  population concerning  the  individual rights  और   समता   among  all people ;  इस   can  be seen  सबसे   broadly  in  the   divide  between republicanism  और  social  लोकतंत्र   .
The history  of  the  अंतरजाल  began with the  विकास   of  electronic  कंप्यूटर   in  the 1950s  .
the   पब्लिक  was first  introduced  to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over  the   arpanet   इससे  computer science Professor  लियोनार्ड  Kleinrock 's laboratory  at   विश्वविद्यालयों  of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ,  लॉस   एंजिल्स   (  UCLA )  ,   बाद   the   दूसरी   टुकड़ा   of  network equipment  थी  installed at Stanford Research  संस्थान  ( SRI ) .
पैकेट   switched   संजाल  such as ARPANET ,  चिह्नित  I at  npl  in the UK , CYCLADES , Merit Network  ,   tymnet   ,  and Telenet , were  विकसित  in the  लेट  1960s  और  early  1970s  using  a   किस्में  of protocols  .
The ARPANET  in  particular led  to   the   विकास   of   प्रोटोकॉल   लिये  internetworking , in  जिससे  multiple  पृथक  networks could  be  joined together  into  a  संजाल  of  संजाल   .
In 1982 , the  अंतरजाल  protocol suite (  tcp/ip   )   थी  standardized ,  और  consequently ,  the   अवधारणा  of a  world-wide   संजाल  of interconnected TCP/IP  संजाल  , called  the  Internet  ,  was  introduced   .
Access to the  arpanet   थी   विस्तारित   in  1981 when  the   नेशनल  Science  न्यास  ( NSF )  विकसित  the  कंप्यूटर  Science Network ( CSNET  )  and again in 1986  जब  NSFNET provided access to  महासंगणक   साइट   in  the United States from  शोध  and education organizations .
वाणिज्यिक   अंतरजाल   सेवा  providers (  isps  ) began to  emerge  in the  लेट   1980s  and  जल्दी   1990s  .
The ARPANET was  decommissioned   in  1990 .
The  अंतरजाल  was commercialized in  1995  when  nsfnet  was decommissioned  ,  removing  the  last  प्रतिबंध  on the  उपयोग  of the Internet to  carry   वाणिज्यिक  traffic .
चूंकि   the   mid-1990s  ,  the  Internet  रै  had  a  revolutionary impact on  संस्कृति  and  कॉमर्स   ,   सहित   the   वृद्धि  of near-instant  संचार  by  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   मेल  , instant messaging  ,  Voice over Internet Protocol  (  VoIP )  ``  phone calls  ''   ,  two-way interactive  वीडियो  calls  ,  and the  संसार   चौड़ी  Web  साथ  its  चर्चा   forums   ,   ब्लॉग  ,  सोशल  networking , and online shopping sites .
The  शोध   और  education community continues  to   develop  and use  उन्नत  networks  ऐसे   as   nsf  's very high speed Backbone Network  सेवा  ( vBNS ) ,  internet2  , and National  lambdarail  .
Increasing  amounts   of   आंकड़ा  are transmitted at higher and higher  speeds  over fiber optic  संजाल   ऑपरेटिंग  at  1-gbit/s   ,  10-Gbit/s  ,   or  more .
The  अंतरजाल  's  कब्ज़ा  over  the  global communication landscape  थी   लगभग  instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1 %  of  the information flowing  through  two-way  दूरसंचार  networks in the year  1993  , already  51  % by 2000  ,  and  अधिक   than   97  % of  the   telecommunicated  information by 2007 .
Today  the  Internet  continues  to grow ,  चलित  by  कभी  greater  amounts  of online  सूचना   ,  commerce ,  entertainment  ,  और   सोशल   नेटवर्किंग  .
दक्षिणपश्चिम  Airlines  co.  ( )  is   a   प्रमुख  U.S.  एयरलाइन  and the world 's  largest  low-cost carrier , headquartered  in  Dallas  ,  Texas .
it  was established in 1967 and adopted its  वर्तमान  name in 1971  .
the  airline has more than  46,000  employees  और  operates  अधिक   than  3,400  फ़्लाइट  per day .
As  of  June  5  ,  2011   ,   it  carries the  सबसे  domestic  यात्री  of any  u.S.  airline .
As  of  April 2013 ,  दक्षिणपश्चिम  Airlines has  अनुसूचित  service to 84  गंतव्यों   in   41  states  और   प्यूर्टो   रीको  .
Southwest  एयरलाइंस  has solely operated Boeing 737s  ,  except for  a  few years in the 1970s  और   1980s   ,   जब   it  operated Boeing 727s .
As of August 2012 , Southwest is the largest operator of the  737  worldwide with over  550  in service , each operating an  औसत  of  छह  flights per day  .
in  May 2011  ,   the   एयरलाइन  acquired  airtran  Airways , with integration  of  the  वाहक  expected to  be  complete by 2014  .
On March  1  , 2012 ,  the   कम्पनी  was  जारी  a  सिंगल   ऑपरेटिंग   प्रमाणपत्र  , technically  बनने  one  एयरलाइन   .
Rolling  चट्टान   is  a 4.6  %  abv  पाले   lager   शुभारम्भ  in 1939 by the  latrobe  Brewing Company  .
Although founded as a local beer  in   पश्चिमी  Pennsylvania ,  it  was  marketed   aggressively  and eventually became  a  national product .
the  brand was sold  to  Anheuser-Busch of St. Louis  ,  Missouri  ,  in mid  2006   ,   जिससे  transferred brewing operations to New Jersey  .
Benedict XVI ( , , ;  born   जोसेफ  Aloisius Ratzinger on 16 April 1927  )  is  पोप  emeritus  of  the  कैथोलिक  Church  .
He served  as  Pope from  2005  to 2013  .
In that position , he was both the  नेता   of  the Catholic Church  और  Sovereign  of  the  वेटिकन  City State  .
Benedict  थी  elected on  19  April  2005   in   a  papal  conclave  , celebrated his Papal Inauguration Mass  on  24 April  2005  ,  और   took  possession  of  his cathedral  ,   the  Archbasilica of St. John Lateran , on 7  may  2005 .
ordained  as a priest in  1951  in his native Bavaria  ,   ratzinger  established himself  as  a highly regarded university theologian by the  लेट   1950s   और   थी   नियुक्त  a  पूरा   प्राध्यापक   in  1958 .
After a long  करियर   as  an  अकादमिक  , serving as a  प्राध्यापक  of theology  at  several German  universities—the  last  होने   the  University of  regensburg  , where he  परोसा  as Vice President of  the  university  in   1976  and 1977—he was appointed Archbishop of Munich  और  Freising and  कार्डिनल  by Pope Paul VI in 1977  ,  an unusual promotion for someone with  छोटी  pastoral experience  .
in  1981 , he settled  in  Rome  जब  he became  prefect   of  the Congregation for  the   doctrine  of the Faith , one of the most important  dicasteries  of the Roman Curia  .
From  2002  until  उसके   चुनाव  as pope , he was also  डीन   of  the  कॉलेज  of Cardinals  ,   और   as  such  ,  the primus inter pares among the  कार्डिनल्स  .
prior  to  बनने   पोप  ,  he   थी  `` a major  फिगर  on the  वेटिकन   स्टेज   लिये  a  क्वार्टर   of  a  सदी   ''  as `` one of the most respected  ,   influential  and  विवादास्पद  members of the College  of  Cardinals '' ; he had  an  influence  ``  second  to  none when  it  came  to  setting  गिरिजाघर  priorities and  दिशानिर्देश  ''  as   एक  of  पोप  John Paul  ii   's   closest   confidants  .
he   थी   originally  a liberal theologian  ,  but adopted conservative views  बाद   1968   .
उसके  prolific writings defend traditional  कैथोलिक  doctrine  और   मान   .
During his papacy ,  बेनेडिक्ट  XVI  advocated   a  return to fundamental  ईसाई  values to  काउंटर   the   increased   secularisation  of  अनेक  Western countries .
He  दृश्य   relativism   's  denial of  उद्देश्य  truth ,  और   the  denial of moral truths in  particular  , as the central problem  of   the  21st  सदी   .
He taught the importance of both  the   कैथोलिक   गिरिजाघर  and an understanding of God 's redemptive love  .
Pope Benedict also revived a  क्रमांक  of traditions including elevating the  tridentine  Mass to  a  more  prominent  position .
he  renewed the relationship  between   the   कैथोलिक   गिरिजाघर  and art  ,  viewing  the  use of beauty  as  a path  to  the sacred ,  प्रचारित  the use of Latin  ,  and reintroduced  परंपरागत  papal garments , for which  कारण  he was called  ``  the  पोप  of aesthetics  ''  .
he  has been described  as   ``  the main intellectual  फ़ोर्स  in  the  Church  ''  since the  mid-1980s   .
Several of  पोप  Benedict  's  students from his academic career  हैं  also prominent churchmen  आज   और  confidantes of  उसे  , notably  क्रिस्टोफ   schönborn  .
on  11  फ़रवरी  2013 , Pope  बेनेडिक्ट  announced  उसके  resignation  in   a  speech  in  Latin  पहले  the  कार्डिनल्स   ,   citing  a ``  कमी   of  strength of mind and  देह   ''   due  to  उसके   उन्नत  age  .
His resignation became effective  on   28   फ़रवरी   2013   .
he  is  the  first pope to resign  चूंकि   पोप  Gregory  बारहवीं  in 1415 , and the first to do so on his  अपना  initiative  चूंकि  Pope  celestine  V  in  1294  .
as  pope  emeritus  , Benedict retains the  स्टाइल   of   उसके  Holiness  ,  and  the  title of Pope  ,  and will  continue  to  पोशाक  in the  papal  colour of white  .
he   थी  succeeded by  पोप   फ्रांसिस   on  13 March 2013  ,  and  he   स्थानांतरित   into  the newly renovated  मेटर  Ecclesiae monastery for his  रिटायरमेंट  on 2  may  2013..
जेब  stereoscope with  असली  test image  .
प्रयुक्त  by military to examine stereoscopic pairs of aerial  छायाचित्र   .
View of Boston , c. 1860 ;  an  early  stereoscopic   कार्ड  for viewing a scene  इससे  nature
Kaiser-Panorama consisted of a multi-station viewing apparatus and sets of stereo slides .
patented  by A. Fuhrmann around  1890  .
कम्पनी  of ladies watching stereoscopic photographs , painting  by  Jacob Spoel  ,   पहले   1868  .
a   बहुत  early depiction of people  using  a  stereoscope   .
Stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3D  इमेजिंग   )  is a  तकनीक  for creating or  बढ़ाना  the illusion of  गहराई   in  an image  by  means  of  stereopsis for binocular  दृष्टि  .
The word stereoscopy derives  इससे   the  Greek  ``  στερεός  ''   (   stereos  ) ,  ``   कड़   ,   ठोस  ''  +  ``  σκοπέω  '' ( skopeō ) , ``  to  look  ''   ,   ``   to  see  ''  .
Most stereoscopic methods present two  ऑफसेट  images  separately  to  the   बाएँ  and  सही  eye of  the  viewer .
ये  two-dimensional images  हैं  then  संयुक्त   in   the   दिमाग   to  give  the  perception of  3d   गहराई   .
This  तकनीक  is distinguished  इससे   3d  displays that display an image in  तीन  full dimensions  ,   allowing  the observer  to   बढ़ाएँ   सूचना   परिचय   the  3-dimensional objects  होने  displayed by head  और  eye  आंदोलनों  .
John  एडम्स   (  October  30  ,  1735  (  o.s   .  October  19   ,  1735 ) –  जुलाई   4  ,  1826  ) was the  दूसरी  president  of  the  संयुक्त  States ( 1797–1801  )  , having  पहले   परोसा   as  the  पहला  vice  अध्यक्ष   of   the   संयुक्त   राज्य  .
An American  founding  Father  ,  he  थी   a  statesman  ,   राजनयिक  ,  और  a leading advocate of  अमरीकी  independence from Great  ब्रिटेन  .
खूब   शिक्षित   ,  he was an Enlightenment  राजनैतिक  theorist who promoted republicanism  और  wrote  prolifically  about  उसके  often seminal ideas , both in  प्रकाशित   works  and  in   अक्षर  to  उसके  wife and  कुंजी  adviser  अबीगैल   as  well as to  अन्य   founding  Fathers .
एडम्स  came  to  prominence in the  जल्दी  stages  of   the  American  क्रान्ति  .
A lawyer  और   पब्लिक  figure in  बोस्टन   ,  as  a  delegate from Massachusetts  to   the  Continental  कॉंग्रेस  , he played a leading role in  persuading  Congress to  घोषित  independence .
He  assisted  Thomas Jefferson  in   drafting  the  घोषणा  of Independence in  1776  , and  थी  its  प्राथमिक  advocate in the Congress  .
Later  ,   as  a  राजनयिक  in Europe ,  he   helped   negotiate   the  eventual peace treaty  साथ  Great  ब्रिटेन   ,  and  थी   जिम्मेदार  for obtaining vital governmental  लोन   इससे   एम्सटर्डम   बैंकर्स   .
A political theorist and  इतिहासकार  ,  एडम्स  largely wrote the  मैसाचुसेट्स  Constitution in  1780   ,   जिससे   साथ  with his earlier  विचार   on  Government  ,   बहकावे   अमरीकी  political thought  .
One  of  his  महानतम  roles was  as   a  judge of character : in  1775   ,  he nominated  जार्ज   वॉशिंगटन  to  be   commander-in-chief  , and 25 years later nominated John Marshall  to   be   मुख्य   इंसाफ  of the  संयुक्त  States  .
Adams '  क्रांतिकारी   श्रेय   secured  him two terms as  जार्ज   वॉशिंगटन  's  वाइस   अध्यक्ष  and his  अपना   चुनाव  in 1796  as  the second  अध्यक्ष   .
During his  एक  term , he encountered ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian Republicans ,  as   खूब  as the dominant  गुट   in   उसके  own Federalist Party led by his  कड़वा  enemy Alexander Hamilton .
एडम्स   हस्ताक्षरित   the   विवादास्पद  Alien and Sedition Acts , and  निर्मित  up the  फौज  and navy  विशेषकर   in  the face of an  undeclared   नवल  war ( called the  ``   quasi-war   ``   )   साथ   फ़्रांस  , 1798–1800 .
the  major  accomplishment  of his presidency  थी   उसके  peaceful resolution of the  विरोध  in  the   फेस  of  हैमिल्टन   's  opposition .
in   1800  ,  एडम्स   थी  defeated for  re-election  by  थामस   जेफरसन   और  retired  to  Massachusetts .
he  later resumed his friendship  साथ  Jefferson .
he  and  उसके   बीवी   ,  Abigail  एडम्स   ,  founded  an  accomplished  परिवार   लकीर  of politicians , diplomats , and  इतिहासकारों   अभी   referred   to   as   the  Adams political family .
एडम्स  was the father of John Quincy Adams , the  छठे  President  of   the  United States  .
उसके   उपलब्धियाँ  have received greater  मान्यता  in  आधुनिक  times , though his contributions  यहूद  not  initially  as celebrated  as   those  of other  संस्थापकों  .
Adams was the first U.S.  अध्यक्ष   to   reside  in the  भवन  that  आखिरकार   became   ज्ञात   as   the  White  हाउस   .
The United States  ten-dollar   विधेयक  (  $   10  ) is a denomination  of   संयुक्त  States  करेंसी   .
the  first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury  (  1789–95 )  ,  Alexander Hamilton , is currently featured on the obverse of  the  bill , while  the  U.S. Treasury Building is  प्रदर्शित  on  the   रिवर्स  .
(  Hamilton is  एक  of two  non-presidents  featured on  फिलहाल  issued U.S. bills .
The  अन्य  is Benjamin Franklin , on the  $   100   विधेयक  .
Hamilton is one of  तभी  four  लोगों  featured on U.S.  पेपर  currency  (  1861  to  the present  )   जो   थी  not  born   in   the  continental  संयुक्त  States  ,  as  he   थी   इससे  the  वेस्ट  Indies  .
the   अन्य  are : Albert Gallatin , Switzerland  (  $ 500  1862/63  Legal  टेंडर  ) ; George Meade , Spain (  $   1,000   1890/91  Treasury Note )  ;  and  रॉबर्ट  Morris ,  इंग्लैण्ड   (  $  1,000   1862/63  Legal  टेंडर  ;  $  10 1878/80  चांदी  Certificate  )   .
in  addition , Kamehameha I  ,  appears on the  2008  Hawaii  राज्य  quarter  .   )
All $ 10  बिल्स   जारी  today are  संघीय   आरक्षित  Notes  .
the  Bureau of Engraving and Printing  says   the   औसत   जीवन   of  a $  10  bill in circulation is 18 months  पहले  it is replaced  due   to   पहनें   .
लगभग  6  %  of all  us  banknotes  मुद्रित  in  2009  were $  10  bills  .
Ten  डालर  bills are  वितरित  by Federal Reserve Banks in  पीला  straps .
The source  of  the  फेस   on  the  $  10 bill is John Trumbull  ’s   1805  portrait of Hamilton that belongs to  the  portrait  संग्रहण  of New York City Hall .
the  $ 10  विधेयक  is  the   तभी   u.S.  paper currency in  परिसंचरण   in  which  the  portrait faces to the  बाएँ  ( the  $  100,000  विधेयक  featured  a  portrait of  वुडरो  Wilson  facing  to the left ,  लकिन  was used only for  intra-government  transactions )  .
a   सवार  on a Yamaha Waverunner XL performing a high-speed turn .
a   jetboat  is  a   नाव  propelled  by   a   जेट  of water ejected  इससे  the back  of   the   शिल्प  .
नापसंद   a  powerboat or  motorboat  that  उपयोग  a propeller in the  जल   नीचे   or  behind  the   नाव  ,  a  jetboat draws the  जल  from  अंतर्गत   the   नाव   into  a pump inside  the   नाव   ,  then expels  it   through   a  nozzle at  the  stern  .
Jetboats  यहूद  originally  designed  by  सर  William Hamilton  (   जो   विकसित  a waterjet  in  1954 )  लिये  operation in the fast-flowing  और   उथले  rivers  of   नई  Zealand ,  specifically  to overcome  the   प्रॉब्लम  of propellers striking rocks  in   ऐसे  waters .
Previous attempts at  waterjet  propulsion had  बहुत   छोटी   lifetimes  , generally  due   to  the inefficient design of  the   इकाई  and  the  fact that they offered few advantages over conventional  propellers   .
नापसंद  these previous waterjet  developments   ,  such  as   campini  's and the Hanley Hydrojet , Hamilton  था   a  specific need for a propulsion system to  operate  in very-shallow  जल  , and the waterjet proved  to   be   the  ideal solution .
From this  ,   the  popularity of  the   जेट  unit and jetboat increased rapidly .
through   further  developments ,  it  was  मिला   the   waterjet   offered   अनेक   अन्य  advantages  over  propellers for a  चौड़ी  range of vessel types ,  और  as  ऐसे   ,   waterjets  are  प्रयुक्त  widely  आज  for  अनेक   high-speed   बरतन   ,   सहित  passenger  ferries  , rescue  शिल्प  , patrol  नौकाएँ  and  offshore  supply vessels  .
Jetboats are  अत्यधिक   maneuverable  ,  और  many can  ,  from  पूरा  speed  ,  be reversed and  brought  to  a   रोकें  within little  अधिक  than their  अपना  length  ,   in   a   maneuver  known  as   a  `` crash  रोकें   ''  .
The well known  हैमिल्टन   फेरे   or  `` jet spin ''  is  a  high-speed  maneuvre  जहाँ  the boat 's engine  throttle  is  काटें  ,  the  steering  is  turned sharply and the throttle  खोली  again  ,  causing the boat  to  spin quickly around  साथ  a  विशाल  spray  of  water  .
There is no  अभियान्त्रिकी  limit  to   the  size of jetboats , though  the  validity of their use  depends   a   लॉट  on  the   प्रकार  of application .
Classic prop-drives are  generally  more  कुशल  and  किफायती  at  कम   speeds  , up to about , but as  नाव   गति   increases  beyond this  ,   the   अतिरिक्त   हल   प्रतिरोध   उत्पन्न  by  struts   ,  rudders  ,   shafts   (  etc  .  )  अर्थात्  waterjets are more  कुशल   in  the 20-50 knot range (  up  to )  .
Also , in situations with very large propellers  turning   at  slow  speeds   (  such  as  tug boats )  ,   the  equivalent  आकार  waterjet  होता  be  too  big  to  be practical .
लिये   ये  reasons , the vast majority of waterjet  इकाई   हैं   संस्थापित  in high-speed  बरतन  and in  particular  situations where shallow draught ,  maneuverability  , and load flexibility  हैं   प्रमुख  concerns  .
The  biggest  jet-driven  बरतन   हैं  found in military  उपयोग  or the high-speed passenger/car ferry  उद्योग  .
South  अफ़्रीकी  's  s  (  लगभग   long  ) are the biggest jet-propelled  बरतन  so far  .
Even these German-built vessels are capable of performing `` crash stops  ''  .
uveitis   is  broadly defined as inflammation of the  uvea  .
The uvea consists of  the  middle ,  pigmented  , vascular structures of the eye and includes the iris ,  ciliary  body , and choroid  .
Uveitis requires an urgent referral  और   thorough  examination by  an   ophthalmologist   or  optometrist along with urgent treatment  to  control the  सूजन  .
Eric `` E  .  ''
Murphy  is  a  fictional   अक्षर  on the comedy-drama television  श्रेणी  Entourage .
he  is played  by   केविन   connolly   .
The  जगमगाता   is   a  1980  मनोवैज्ञानिक   हॉरर  film produced and directed by  स्टेनली  Kubrick  ,  co-written  साथ  novelist Diane Johnson , and  अभिनीत  Jack  निकोल्सन  , Shelley Duvall ,  scatman   crothers  , and Danny  लॉयड   .
The film  is  based on the  स्टीफन   किंग   अनोखा  The Shining .
A  लेखक  , Jack  torrance  , takes a  जॉब   as   an   off-season  caretaker  at   an  isolated hotel .
His  यंग   बेटे   possesses  psychic abilities  और  is  समर्थ  to see things from  the  past and  भविष्य   ,  such as the  भूत  who inhabit the hotel .
Soon after  settling   in  , the family is trapped in the  होटल  by a  snowstorm  , and Jack gradually  becomes  influenced  by   a  supernatural presence ;  he   उतरता   into  madness and  कोशिशें  to murder his  बीवी  and son  .
Unlike previous Kubrick  films   ,   जिससे  developed  an  audience gradually  by  building on word-of-mouth , The Shining  थी  released as a mass-market  फिल्मी   ,  opening  at  first  in  just  दो  cities on Memorial Day ,  तब   देशभर   a   माह   बाद   .
Although initial response  to  the film  थी   मिश्रित  , later critical  मूल्यांकन  was  अधिक   अनुकूल  and  it  is now viewed as a classic of the horror genre .
फिल्मी  director Martin Scorsese ,  लिखने  in  the   रोज़   जानवर  ,  क्रमित   it  as one of the  11   scariest  horror movies of  सब  time  .
Film  आलोचकों  , film  विद्यार्थी   ,  and  kubrick  's producer ,  जन  Harlan  ,  have remarked  on   the  enormous  influence  the  फिल्मी   रै   था   on   लोकप्रिय   संस्कृति  .
The  आरंभिक   यूरोपीय  release  of  The  जगमगाता   थी  25  मिनट्स   shorter  than the American version  ,   हासिल  by  निकालना  most  of   the  scenes taking  प्लेस  outside the  environs   of  the hotel .
Patio  कोला  Bottle
Patio  आहार   कोला   थी   a   ब्रांड  of  आहार   सोडा   introduced  by  पेप्सी  in  1963   .
it  was created in  जवाब   to   आहार  Rite  कोला  , which  थी  the first  आहार  cola  on  the market .
फ़िटनेस  promoter Debbie Drake  थी  Patio Diet Cola 's  प्रवक्ता   .
In  1964  ,  आँगन  released orange  ,   अंगूर  ,  और  root  बियर  flavors .
This  स्वाद  line  थी   नहीं  meant  to   compete   साथ   ब्रांड्स  like Orange Crush  ,  but rather fill out  the   लकीर  .
Patio sodas  यहूद  available  in   the   cold-bottle  market  :  grocery and  mom-and-pop  stores .
Advertising for  आँगन  was  comparatively   scarce  ; at  the   समय  , bottlers were  regionally   franchised   ,  and  सम्बन्धित  advertising was necessarily  लोकल   .
In 1964 ,  आँगन   आहार   कोला  became Diet Pepsi .
The newly branded diet soda was advertised alongside  पेप्सी  with the tagline ``  पेप्सी  either way '' , which  replaced  the  स्लोगन   ``  Dances  साथ  flavor ''  .
The short  जीवन  span  of  Patio  आहार   कोला  makes  it  a great addition for  बोतल  collectors  .
Most of the remaining Patio  लकीर  of flavors  यहूद   phased  out by the  जल्दी   1970s   ,  while  a  few survived  जबतक   the   मिड  70s
अवसंरचना  is  मौलिक  physical and  organizational  structures  needed   लिये   the  operation of a society or enterprise , or  the   सेवाएं  and facilities  जरुरी  for  an  economy  to  function .
It  can   be   generally  defined  as   the  set of interconnected structural elements that  provide  framework  supporting   an   संपूर्ण   ढांचा  of  विकास   .
it  is  an  important  पद  for judging a country or  प्रदेश   's  development .
the  term typically refers to the technical structures  कि  support  a   समाज   ,   ऐसे   as   सड़कें  ,  पुलों  ,  जल  supply  ,  sewers  ,  electrical grids , telecommunications  ,   और   so   forth   ,  and can  be  defined as  ``   the   शारीरिक  components  of  interrelated systems providing commodities  और  services  अनिवार्य   to  enable , sustain , or enhance  societal  living conditions  .   ''
viewed  functionally ,  अवसंरचना   facilitates  the  उत्पादन   of  goods  और   सेवाएं  , and also  the   वितरण  of  समाप्त   उत्पाद  to  बाज़ार  ,  as   खूब   as  basic social services such as schools and  अस्पताल  ;  लिये  example , roads enable the  हस्तांतरण  of  कच्चा   सामग्री   to   a   फैक्टरी  .
in   सैन्य  parlance , the term  refers  to  the  buildings and  स्थाई   संस्थापना  necessary for  the  support  ,  redeployment , and  आपरेशन   of   सैन्य  forces  .
To make  it   सरल   ,   अवसंरचना   is  anything that  is   needed  everyday ,  an  everyday item .
a   आलेखीय   प्रतिनिधित्व   of  the  आदर्श   इंसान   karyotype
Mitochondrial DNA .
Human genetic variation is the genetic differences  दोनो  within and  among  populations .
There may be  अनेक   विसंगतियाँ  of any  दिए  gene in  the   इंसान   जनसांख्यिकी  ( genes )  ,   अग्रणी   to  polymorphism  .
Many genes are not polymorphic , meaning that only  a  single  allele   is   उपस्थित   in  the population  :   the  gene is  तब   कहा  to be fixed .
no  two humans  हैं   genetically  identical .
Even monozygotic  जुड़वा  , who develop from  एक  zygote , have infrequent genetic  मतभेद   due   to   mutations  occurring  दौरान  development and  जीन  copy  क्रमांक  variation .
मतभेद   between  individuals , even  closely   सम्बन्धित  individuals ,  हैं  the  कुंजी   to  techniques  ऐसे  as genetic  फिंगरप्रिंटिंग  .
Alleles  occur   at  different frequencies in  अलग  human  populations  , with populations that  हैं  more geographically and  ancestrally   रिमोट  tending  to  differ more .
Causes  of  differences between individuals include the exchange  of  genes  दौरान  meiosis and various mutational  कार्यक्रम  .
There are at least two  कारण  why  जेनेटिक  variation  exists  between  populations  .
Natural  चयन  may confer an  अनुकूली  advantage to individuals in  a   विशिष्ट  environment  if  an allele  provides  a competitive advantage .
Alleles under  चयन  are  संभावित  to occur  तभी  in those geographic  regions   जहाँ  they  confer   an   लाभ  .
the  second  प्रमुख  cause of  जेनेटिक  variation is due  to  the  ऊँची  degree  of  neutrality  of  most  mutations  .
सबसे  mutations do  नहीं  appear  to  have  कोई  selective effect  एक   रास्ता   or  the other on the  सजीव  .
The main  कारण  is  जेनेटिक  drift ,  इस   is   the  effect of random  परिवर्तन  in  the  gene pool .
in   इंसानो  ,  संस्थापक   प्रभाव  and past  छोटी  population size (  increasing  the  likelihood  of genetic drift ) may have  था  an  महत्वपूर्ण  influence in  न्यूट्रल  differences between populations  .
the   सिद्धान्त  that humans recently  migrated   आउट  of  अफ़्रीकी   supports  this  .
The study of  इंसान  genetic variation has  दोनो  evolutionary  significance  and medical  अनुप्रयोग   .
it  can help scientists understand  प्राचीन  human  जनसांख्यिकी   migrations  as  खूब   as  how different  इंसान   समूह   हैं  biologically related  to  one  another   .
लिये   आयुर्विज्ञान   ,  study of  इंसान  genetic variation  may   be  important because some  disease-causing   alleles   occur   अधिक   प्रायः  in  लोगों  from  विशिष्ट  geographic regions  .
नई  findings show  कि  each human has on average  60   नई   mutations   compared  to their parents .
Apart from  mutations   ,   अनेक  genes  कि  may have aided humans in  प्राचीन   टाइम्स  plague  इंसानो  today .
For  उदाहरण  , it  is  suspected  कि  genes that allow humans to more  efficiently   प्रक्रम   खाना  are  those   कि   मेक   लोगों   susceptible   to  obesity and diabetes today  .
चाय  Party protesters  on   the  West  लॉन   of  the U.S.  कैपिटल  and the  नेशनल   मॉल  at the Taxpayer  कूच  on  वॉशिंगटन   on   सितंबर   12  , 2009  .
The Tea Party  गति   is   an   अमरीकी   राजनैतिक  movement  कि   अधिवक्ताओं  strict adherence  to   the  United States  संविधान  , reducing U.S.  सरकारी  spending and taxes  ,  and reduction of  the  U.S.  नेशनल  debt  और   संघीय  budget  deficit  .
The movement has  महरूम  called partly conservative , partly libertarian ,  और  partly populist  .
The  गति   रै  sponsored protests  और   समर्थित  political candidates since 2009 .
The name  of   the   गति  is  निकला   इससे   the  Boston Tea Party of 1773 , an iconic  इवेंट   in  American history .
Anti-tax protesters in the United  राज्य   have  often  referred  to  the  original Boston Tea Party for  प्रेरणा   .
References to the  बोस्टन   चाय   पार्टी   यहूद  part of  कर   दिन   विरोध  held throughout the  1990s  and earlier .
By 2001 ,  a  custom  था  developed  among  some  रूढ़िवादी  activists of mailing  चाय  bags to legislators  और   अन्य  officials as a  सांकेतिक   अधिनियम  .
the  currencies of  प्यूर्टो   रीको  closely  follow  the  ऐतिहासिक   विकास  of Puerto Rico .
As a  उपनिवेश   of  Spain  और   the  United States  ,  Puerto Rico was granted the  उपयोग  of both foreign and  प्रांतीय  currencies .
Following  the  Spanish colonization in 1502 , Puerto Rico  became   an  important  बंदरगाहों   ,  with  इसके   अपना  supply of gold .
however  , as the mineral  reserves  ran empty within the century  ,  the  द्वीपसमूह  's  अर्थव्यवस्था  suffered .
the   स्पेनी  Crown issued the  situado   mexicano   ,  which  meant  that  a   semi-regular  shipment  of   सुनहरा   इससे  the  viceroyalty  of New Spain would  be  sent  to  the island , as  a   रास्ता   to   provide  economic support  .
Between 1636 and 1637 , Philip  iv  of Spain imposed a tax which  था  to be paid using a revenue stamp  .
Inspired by this  ,  Puerto Rico  began   producing  banknotes in  1766   ,  becoming  the  first colony  to  print 8- real  banknotes   in   the   स्पेनी   साम्राज्य   और  which in  the  Spanish government  's   स्वीकृति  of  subsequent  issues  .
The  situado   थी  discontinued during  the  19th century , creating an economic  संकट   ,  as  a   परिणाम  of Mexico  gaining  its  स्वतंत्रता  from Spain .
Salvador Meléndez  bruna   ,  the colonial governor  in  office  ,   ordered   the  issue of  प्रांतीय   banknotes   ,   बनाना  the  प्यूर्टो   rican   पेसो   .
however   ,   मुद्रण   of   ये   banknotes   ceased   बाद  1815  .
During the following decades ,  विदेशी  coins became  the   फैली   करेंसी   .
in  the 1860s  और  1870s , banknotes  reemerged   .
On February  1  , 1890 ,  the   banco   español  de Puerto Rico was  उदघाटन  and  began   issuing   banknotes  .
The  बैंको  designed  चार   श्रेणी   और   लगाई   तीन  in circulation  अंतर्गत  Spanish rule  .
In  1895  , a Royal Decree  ordered  the  उत्पादन  of  प्रांतीय  peso coins  .
On August  13  ,  1898   ,  the Spanish-American War  ended  with Spain ceding Puerto Rico  to  the United States  .
the  Banco  español   de   प्यूर्टो   रीको   थी  renamed  बैंको  of Porto Rico and issued bills equivalent to  the   संयुक्त  States dollar ,  बनाना  the  प्यूर्टो  Rican  डालर  .
in   1902  , the First  नेशनल  Bank of Porto Rico  जारी  banknotes in  a   समानांतर  manner  .
Two  अधिक  series were issued until  1913  .
बाद  Puerto  रीको  's economy and monetary system was fully  एकीकृत  into the United States  '  economic and monetary system  ,  the  प्यूर्टो   rican  dollars  यहूद   redeemed  for those issued by the United  राज्य   राजकोष  .
the  peso  और  dollar  have  been followed by other  समकालीन  issues ,  सहित   commemorative   banknotes   ,  private  करेंसी  ,  और  a quarter coin designed  साथ  Fort San  फेलिप  del  morro  in the  फेस   .
Pepsi (  stylized  in lowercase as pepsi  ,  formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is  a  carbonated soft drink that is produced and manufactured  by   पेप्सिको   .
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad  's   पेय   ,   it   थी   renamed   as  Pepsi-Cola  on  August  28  ,  1898  ,  तब   to   पेप्सी  in  1961  .
the   किताब  of  ezekiel  is  the   तीसरा  of the  latter   नबियों  in  the   यहूदी  Bible  ,  following the books  of  Isaiah  और  Jeremiah  और   preceding  the Book of the Twelve .
( The order  is  somewhat different  in  the Christian  बूढ़ा  Testament  )   .
It derives its name  इससे   ,   और  records the  visions   of   ,  the 6th century BC priest and  नबी   ezekiel  .
According to  the  book  ,   the   नबी  ,  exiled  in Babylon  ,   अनुभवी  a series  of  seven visions during  the  22  सालो   इससे  593 to 571 BC ,  a   काल   जिससे   spans   the   फाइनल  destruction of  जेरूसलम   in   586  .
The visions  ,   और  the book ,  हैं  structured around three themes :  (  1  )  judgment on Israel  (  chapters  1-24   )   ;  ( 2 ) judgment on  the   राष्ट्र   (  chapters 25-32  )  ; and  भविष्य  blessings for  इसराईल   (   अध्याय  33-48 )  .
New Orleans ( or ,  locally   or  ; ) is  a   प्रमुख  United States port and the largest  नगर  and metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  in  the   राज्य   of  Louisiana  .
The population  of   the   नगर  was  343,829  as  of  the  2010  U.S. Census  .
The  नई   ऑरलियन्स  metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल   (   नई   orleans–metairie–kenner  Metropolitan  सांख्यिकीय   क्षेत्रफल   )   था   a   जनसांख्यिकी  of  1,167,764   in  2010 and was the 46th largest  in  the United  राज्य  .
The  नई   orleans–metairie–bogalusa   संयुक्त  Statistical  क्षेत्रफल  ,  a  larger  व्यापार   क्षेत्रफल   ,  had a  2010  population  of  1,214,932 .
the  city is named after Orléans  ,  a city located  on   the   loire  River in Centre  ,  France  ,   और  is well known for its distinct French Creole architecture ,  as  well as  इसके  cross-cultural  और   बहुभाषी  heritage  .
New  ऑरलियन्स   is  also famous  लिये   इसके  cuisine  ,   म्यूज़िक   (   विशेषकर   as  the birthplace of  जैज़   )   ,  and its  सालाना  celebrations and  त्यौहार  ,  सबसे  notably Mardi Gras .
The city is often referred to as the `` most  अद्वितीय   ''  in  अमेरिका   .
New  ऑरलियन्स   is   स्तिथ   in   southeastern  Louisiana  ,  straddling  the   मिसिसिपी  River  .
The city  और   ऑरलियन्स   मोहल्ला  (  )   हैं   .
The city and  मोहल्ला  are bounded by the  parishes   of   st.   tammany   to   the   उत्तर  ,  st.  Bernard  to  the  ईस्ट  , Plaquemines to the south and  जेफरसन  to the south and west  .
Lake  pontchartrain  ,  भाग  of  जिससे   is  included in  the  city  हद   ,  lies  to  the  उत्तर  and  झील  Borgne lies  to  the east  .
the   नेशनल   जनम   कंट्रोल  League was a birth control  संगठन   in  the  संयुक्त  States  .
It  थी   संस्थापित  in  कूच   1915   by   मरियम  Dennett ,  क्लारा  Gruening Stillman and Jessie  एशले  .
Its  प्रमुख   purpose   थी  to  overturn  the  कानून  which banned contraceptives  इससे  the U.S. mails  .
Campaigns were mounted  in   नई   यॉर्क   ,   लकिन  in 1919 the League was disbanded and reformed into the Voluntary Parenthood League .
कर्कट  , known medically as  a  malignant  फुलाव   ,  is a broad group of  विभिन्न  diseases  ,  all involving  unregulated  cell  विकास   .
In cancer ,  कोशिकाएं   divide  and grow uncontrollably ,  forming   malignant   tumors   ,  and  invade  nearby  भाग  of  the   देह  .
The  कर्कट   may   भी  spread  to   अधिक   दूर  parts  of   the   देह   through  the lymphatic system or bloodstream  .
नहीं  all  tumors   हैं  cancerous .
benign   tumors   do   नहीं  grow uncontrollably , do not  invade  neighboring tissues , and  do  not  स्प्रेड   throughout   the  body  .
There  हैं   over  200  अलग   ज्ञात  cancers  कि  afflict humans  .
Determining what causes  कर्कट  is complex  .
अनेक  things  हैं  known  to   बढ़ाएँ   the  risk of  कर्कट  ,  सहित   तम्बाकू   उपयोग   ,  certain  infections   ,   विकिरण   ,  lack  of  physical  कार्यकलाप   ,  obesity , and environmental  प्रदूषक  .
ये   can  directly damage genes  or  combine with existing genetic faults within  कोशिकाएं  to  कारण  the disease .
Approximately  पाँच  to ten percent of  cancers   हैं  entirely hereditary .
कर्कट  can be detected in a  क्रमांक  of ways ,  सहित  the  उपस्थिति  of certain signs and symptoms ,  स्क्रीनिंग  tests  ,  or  चिकित्सा  imaging .
Once a possible  कर्कट  is detected it  is   diagnosed   by   microscopic   परिक्षा   of   a  tissue  नमूना  .
Cancer is usually  treated   साथ  chemotherapy , radiation  चिकित्सा  and surgery .
The  संभावना   of  surviving  the  disease  vary   greatly  by the type and  स्थान  of the cancer and  the   extent  of disease  at  the start of  उपचार   .
While  कर्कट  can affect people of  सब  ages ,  और   a  few  प्रकार   of  cancer are more common  in  children  ,  the risk  of  developing  कर्कट  generally increases  साथ   आयु  .
In 2007  ,  cancer caused about 13 % of all human  मौतों   विश्वव्यापी   (   7.9  million ) .
Rates are rising as more  लोगों  live  to   an  old  आयु  and  as  mass lifestyle changes occur  in   the  developing world .
Spring ski touring  on  Hardangervidda ,  नार्वे
Skiing is  a   recreational  activity  और  competitive  खेल  in  जिससे  the participant attaches  long  runners or skis to boots or shoes  on  the  फीट   और  uses  उन्हें   to  travel on top  of   हिम   .
Aside from  मनोरंजन   और  competition , skiing  रै  been used  लिये   सैन्य   उद्देश्य  and even travelling in areas  कि  experience heavy snowfall .
Many types  of  competitive  स्कीइंग   कार्यक्रम   हैं   पहचाना  by  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Olympic  कमेटी  , and the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   स्की  Federation  .
John  मेनार्ड  Keynes  ,   1st   सामन्त  Keynes , CB , FBA  (  ;  5  June 1883 – 21  अप्रैल  1946 )  थी  a  अंग्रेजों  economist  जिनकी  ideas  have   fundamentally  affected the  सिद्धान्त  and practice  of  modern macroeconomics ,  और  informed the economic  नीतियों   of  governments .
He  निर्मित  on and  greatly   परिष्कृत  earlier work on  the  causes  of   कारोबार  cycles ,  और  is  widely  considered to be  एक  of  the  founders of  आधुनिक  macroeconomics and the most influential  अर्थशास्त्री  of the 20th century .
उसके  ideas are  the   आधार  for the school of thought known as Keynesian economics  ,   as  well as  इसके  various offshoots  .
In  अनेक   तरीके  , subsequent  developments   in  20th century  अर्थशास्त्र  can  be  viewed as  either  building on Keynes ' ideas or reacting  विरूद्ध  them .
In the  1930s  ,  keynes  spearheaded  a   क्रान्ति  in economic thinking  ,   overturning   the   पुरानी   विचार   of   neoclassical  economics that held that free markets would , in the  छोटी  to medium  पद  ,  automatically  provide full  नियुक्ति  ,  as  long as workers  यहूद  flexible  in   उनके   मजदूरी   मांगे   .
Keynes  बजाय  argued that aggregate demand  संकल्पित  the overall level of  आर्थिक   कार्यकलाप  ,  और  that inadequate aggregate  माँग   could   सीसे   to   prolonged  periods of high  बेरोजगारी   .
He  advocated  the  उपयोग   of   फिस्कल  and monetary  उपायों   to   mitigate   the   प्रतिकूल  effects  of  economic  recessions  and  depressions  .
Following the  outbreak  of the  दूसरी   संसार   युद्ध  ,  keynes  's  विचार  concerning  आर्थिक  policy  यहूद   अपनाया  by leading  पश्चिमी   economies   .
In 1942  ,  Keynes  थी   awarded   a   खानदानी  peerage as  सामन्त  Keynes of Tilton  in  the  काउंटी   of   ससेक्स  .
keynes  died in 1946 , but during  the   1950s  and 1960s the  कामयाबी   of  Keynesian  अर्थशास्त्र   resulted  in almost all capitalist  सरकारें  adopting  इसके  policy  सुझाव  .
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s , partly as  a   परिणाम  of  समस्याएं  that  began  to afflict the  anglo-american  economies  इससे  the start  of  the decade , and partly because of critiques from Milton Friedman and other  अर्थशास्त्रियों   जो   यहूद  pessimistic  परिचय  the ability of  सरकारें  to regulate the business  साईकिल  with fiscal policy .
However ,  the  advent  of  the  वैश्विक   वित्तीय  crisis  in   2007  caused a  पुनरुत्थान   in  Keynesian thought  .
Keynesian economics  provided  the  सैद्धांतिक  underpinning for  आर्थिक  policies  undertaken   in  response to the crisis  by   राष्ट्रपतियों  George W. Bush and Barack  ओबामा  of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   ,   प्रधान  Minister Gordon Brown of  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom  ,   और  other heads of governments  .
in   1999  ,  समय   पत्रिका   शामिल  Keynes in their list of the 100 most  महत्वपूर्ण   और   influential  people  of  the  20th   सदी  ,  commenting  that :  ``   उसके   कट्टरपंथी  idea that  सरकारें   चाहिए  spend  धन  they do  n't  have  may   have  saved  पूंजीवाद   .   ''
In addition  to   होने   an  economist  ,  Keynes was also a civil servant  ,   a   निदेशक  of the  अंग्रेजों   eugenics   समाज   ,  a  निदेशक   of  the  बैंको  of England  ,   a   संरक्षक   of  the arts and an art collector , a  भाग  of  the   bloomsbury  Group of intellectuals , an  सलाहकार   to   अनेक   charitable  trusts  ,  a  लेखक  ,  a   पारस  ,  a   निजी  investor ,  और   a  farmer  .
इस   1768   parchment  ( 612×502  mm  ) by Jekuthiel Sofer  emulated   the  1675 Ten Commandments at  the   एम्सटर्डम  Esnoga synagogue  .
the  Ten Commandments , also  ज्ञात  as the  decalogue   ,  are  a  set of biblical laws relating  to   आचार  and worship  ,  which play a fundamental role in  judaism  , Islam  और  Christianity .
वे  include instructions  to  worship  तभी   परमेश्वर   ,   to   रखना  the sabbath holy  और  prohibitions against idolatry ,  इनकार  , murder , theft  ,   deception  and adultery .
अलग  groups follow slightly  अलग  traditions for interpreting  और   क्रमांकन  them .
the  Ten Commandments appear twice  in  the Hebrew  बाइबल   ,  in the books  of   exodus   और  Deuteronomy .
According  to  the  स्टोरी  in  exodus  , God inscribed  उन्हें  on two stone  टैबलेट  ,  जिससे   he  gave to  मूसा  on Mount Sinai .
आधुनिक  scholarship  रै  found likely  प्रभाव  in Hittite and Mesopotamian laws  और  treaties , but is divided over exactly  जब  the Ten Commandments  यहूद   लिखा  and  जो  wrote  उन्हें   .
The discography of the  अंग्रेज़ी  alternative  चट्टान   बैंड  The  smiths  consists  of  four  स्टुडियो   एल्बम  , one extended play  (  EP  )  , one live  एल्बम   ,   टेन  compilation albums  ,  twenty singles ,  एक  video album  और  fourteen music  वीडियो  on the  अशिष्ट   व्यापार  , Sire and  wea  record  लेबल्स  .
the  band was  formed  in 1982  in  Manchester  by  vocalist  morrissey  , guitarist Johnny  marr  , bass  खिलाड़ी  Andy Rourke  और  drummer Mike Joyce .
Despite being championed by BBC Radio  1   डिस्क  jockey John Peel  ,   the  band  's  debut  सिंगल  ,  ``  Hand  in   दस्ताने   ``   (   may   1983  )  ,  failed to  चार्ट   .
इसके   follow-up   ,  ``  इस  Charming  man   ``   (  October 1983 ) ,  मिले  with critical acclaim and reached number twenty-five  on   the  UK Singles Chart .
the  Smiths ' cult status was  followed  by  मुख्यधारा  success  in   1984   ,  as they reached number twelve in the UK with the `` What  अंतर  Does  it  Make ? `` single  और   पहुँचे   क्रमांक  two on  the   uk   एल्बम  Chart with their  डेब्यू   एल्बम   ,  The Smiths (  1984  )  .
Their next three singles all  पहुँचे  the top twenty of  the  charts  in  the  uk  ,  helping   to  consolidate their previous chart  कामयाबी  .
the   अगला  studio album  ,  Meat Is  हत्या  (  1985  ) , reached the top  of  the British charts ; however  ,   the   तभी  single to  be   released  from the album , ``  कि  Joke  is   n't   मजेदार  Anymore  ``   (   1985   )  , failed  to  break  the   uk  Top 40 .
Returning to form , The Smiths ' next six singles  सब   पहुँचे   the  higher than  क्रमांक  thirty in the UK and their  तीसरा   एल्बम   ,   the  Queen  is   मुर्दे  (  1986   )   ,  reached number two in  the  UK .
despite  the  बैंड  's chart success  ,  Marr left  the  group  in   अगस्त  1987  due   to   a   strained   संबंध  with Morrissey .
Failing  to   ढूँढें  a replacement  ,   the  Smiths disbanded by  the  time their final  स्टुडियो   एल्बम   ,  Strangeways  ,  Here We  आइये  , was released in September  कि  year .
strangeways  , Here  we  Come  पहुँचे  number  दो  in the UK  और  became  the   बैंड  's  highest-charting   रिलीज  in  the   संयुक्त  States  जब   it  reached  क्रमांक   fifty-five  on  the  Billboard 200 .
In early 1992  ,  WEA acquired  the   संपूर्ण   वापस  catalogue of The Smiths  और   उत्पादित   दो  compilations – Best ...  i  and ...  बेहतरीन   ii  –  the  first of which reached  the  top  of  the UK  एल्बम   चार्ट  .
WEA released  दो  further  singles  compilations  in  1995 and  2001  , with a  further   संकलन  ,  the  Sound of The  smiths  ,  released  in November 2008 .
Gone with  the  Wind is  a   अनोखा   लिखा  by  मार्गरेट   मिशेल   ,   पहला  published in 1936 .
It is  प्रायः  placed  in  the literary  sub-genre  of the historical romance novel .
However  ,  it  रै  been argued the novel is a ``  निकट  miss  ''   और  does  नहीं   contain  all of the elements of the  रोमांस   विधा  ,  बनाना  it simply  a   ऐतिहासिक  novel .
the   स्टोरी   is  set in Clayton  काउंटी  , Georgia ,  और  Atlanta  दौरान   the  American  सिविल  War  और   पुनर्निर्माण   .
it   depicts  the  अनुभवों  of  स्कारलेट  O'Hara , the spoiled daughter  of  a  well-to-do  plantation  मालिक  , who  जरूर  use every means  at  her disposal  to  come  आउट  of  the  poverty  वो   पाता  herself in  बाद  Sherman  's  `` March to the  समुद्र  ''  .
Margaret Mitchell began  लिखने  Gone with the Wind  in  1926 to pass the  समय  while recovering from an  auto-crash  injury that refused  to  heal  .
in  April 1935 ,  हेरोल्ड  Latham  of  Macmillan  ,   an  editor who  थी   looking   लिये   नई  fiction , read  कया  she had written and  देखी  that it  could  be a best-seller  .
After  लैथम   सहमत   to   प्रकाशित  the book , Mitchell worked for  another   छह  months  checking  the  ऐतिहासिक  references , and  rewrote  the opening chapter several  टाइम्स   .
मिशेल  and her husband John Marsh ,  a  copy  एडिटर   by  trade ,  संपादित  the  फाइनल   संस्करण  of the novel  .
Mitchell  लिखा   the   किताब   's  final  पल   पहला  , and  तब   लिखा  the  कार्यक्रम  that led up to it .
As to what  became  of  उसके  lovers  ,  Rhett and Scarlett  ,  after  the  novel  ended   ,   मिशेल  did not know  ,   और  said  ,   ``   लिये   सब  I  जान  ,  रहेट   may   have  found someone else  जो  was  कम   मुश्किल  . ''
मिशेल  received the  पुलित्जर   पुरस्कार   लिये  Fiction for the book  in  1937  .
The book was adapted into a  1939   अमरीकी  film  .
गए  with the Wind is the  तभी  novel  by   मिशेल  published  दौरान   उसके  lifetime .
Endodontics  (  from the Greek endo `` inside '' ; and  odons   ``   दाँत   ''  )  is  one of the dental  specialties  recognized  by   the  American  दंत   संघ  , Royal  कॉलेज  of  dentists  of Canada  ,  and Royal Australasian College of Dental  अध्येतावृत्ति  , and deals  साथ   the  tooth pulp  और  the tissues surrounding the  रूट  of a  दाँत  .
Endodontists perform  a   किस्में   of  procedures  सहित  endodontic therapy ( commonly known  as   ``   रूट   कनाल  therapy  ''   )  , endodontic retreatment ,  सर्जरी  ,  treating   cracked   दांत   ,   और   treating  dental  आघात   .
रूट  canal therapy is  एक   of  the  सबसे   आम  procedures  .
if  the  गूदा  (  containing  nerves  ,  arterioles , venules ,  lymphatic   ऊतक   ,   और  fibrous tissue ) becomes  diseased  or  घायल   ,  endodontic treatment is  जरूरी   to  save  the  tooth  .
Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS  )  is  a  point-to-point  सीरियल  protocol  कि  moves data  to   और   इससे   कंप्यूटर  storage  डिवाइस   ऐसे  as hard drives and  टेप  drives  .
SAS replaces the  पुरानी   समानांतर  SCSI ( pronounced ``  scuzzy  '' )  बस  technology  कि  first appeared  in  the  mid-1980s   .
SAS  ,  like  इसके   पूर्ववर्ती   ,  uses the  मानक   scsi  command set .
SAS offers backward compatibility with second-generation  sata  drives .
SATA 3 Gbit/s  ड्राइव  may be  कनेक्ट  to SAS  backplanes   ,  but SAS  ड्राइव  can not connect  to   sata   backplanes  .
the  T10  तकनीकी  committee  of  the International  कमेटी  for  सूचना  Technology  मानकों   (   incits  ) develops and  maintains  the  sas   प्रोटोकॉल  ; the  scsi   व्यापार   संघ  (  scsita  ) promotes the  प्रौद्योगिकी   .
भाग  of the constitutional  प्रावधान   as   it   appeared  in  1787
Status  as   a  natural-born citizen of the United  राज्य   is  one of  the   पात्रता   आवश्यकताएँ   स्थापित   in  the  संयुक्त  States Constitution for  चुनाव  to the  दफ्तर  of  अध्यक्ष  or  वाइस  President  .
This requirement  थी  intended  to   protect  the nation from  विदेशी  influence  .
The Constitution does  नहीं  define the  phrase   natural-born  citizen  ,  and various opinions  have   महरूम  offered  over  time regarding  इसके   precise  meaning  .
A  2011   congressional   शोध  Service  रपट   stated
The natural-born-citizen clause has been  उल्लेखित  in passing  in  several decisions of the  संयुक्त  States  परम्  Court and lower  न्यायालयों  dealing with the question of eligibility for citizenship by  जनम   ,   लकिन   the   परम्  Court  रै  never directly addressed  the   सवाल   of   a   विशिष्ट  presidential or vice-presidential candidate  's   पात्रता   as   a   natural-born  citizen  .
kurtis  Eugene `` Kurt '' Warner  (  born  जून  22 , 1971 ) is  a   पूर्व  American  फ़ुटबॉल   खिलाड़ी   .
he   निभाई   क्वार्टरबैक  for  तीन   नेशनल  Football  लीग  ( NFL ) teams  :  the  st.  Louis  मेढ़ों  ,  the  New  यॉर्क   दिग्गज   ,  and the Arizona Cardinals .
He was originally signed  by   the   ग्रीन  Bay Packers as an  undrafted   फ़्री  agent in 1994 after  playing  college  फ़ुटबॉल  at  उत्तरी  Iowa  .
Warner  होता  go  on  to be considered the  बेहतरीन   undrafted   खिलाड़ी   of  all time ,  following  a 12-year career  regarded  as  एक  of the  महानतम  stories in NFL history .
Warner first attained stardom while  playing  for the  st.   लुई   मेढ़ों  from  1998   to  2003  ,   जहाँ  he won two NFL MVP awards in 1999  और  2001  as   खूब   as  the Super Bowl  mvp  award in Super  कटोरी  XXXIV .
he  led the 2008 Arizona Cardinals  to   सुपर   कटोरी  XLIII (  the   मताधिकार  's first  सुपर   कटोरी  berth )  ,   और   owns  the three highest single-game passing yardage totals  in  Super Bowl history  .
warner  currently  holds   the  seventh-highest  करियर  passer  दरजा  of all-time (  93.7   )  ,  और  the third-highest  करियर  completion  प्रतिशत   in  NFL  इतिहास   साथ   65.5   %   .
in  13 career playoff games  ,  Warner ranks first  all-time   in   पूर्णता  percentage ( 66.5 % ) ,  गज   प्रति  attempt ( 8.55 ) , and  दूसरी  in  passer   दरजा  ( 102.8 )  .
he  also holds the highest  पूर्णता  percentage for a single  खेल   दौरान  the regular  ऋतु   ,   at  92.3 percent  (   24/26  ) , on September  20   ,  2009 , against  the  Jacksonville  jaguars  .
He  घोषित   उसके   रिटायरमेंट  on January  29   ,   2010.  < ref name='CNN  2010-01-29   '   >
जेनेट   काय  Ruthven  hagan  ( ;  born  May 26 , 1953  )   is   the   जूनियर  United  राज्य   सीनेटर   इससे  North  कैरोलिना   ,  in office since January 2009 .
previously   वो  served in the North Carolina  सीनेट   इससे  1999  to  2009 .
She is  a   सदस्य   of  the Democratic Party  और  is  viewed   as   a  moderate member of her  पार्टी   .
When Hagan  पराजित  Republican  लाज़िम  Elizabeth Dole  in  the 2008 United  राज्य  Senate election ,  वो  became  the  first woman  to  defeat an incumbent  स्त्री   in  a Senate election  .
The  heisman   मेमोरियल   ट्रॉफी  Award (  प्रायः  known  colloquially   as   the  Heisman  ट्रॉफी   or  the Heisman ) , is  awarded  annually  to   the  player  deemed   the   सबसे   बकाया   खिलाड़ी  in  कॉलेजिएट  football .
It  थी   निर्मित  in 1935  as   the  Downtown Athletic  क्लबों  trophy and renamed in  1936   following   the  death of the Club 's athletic director , John  heisman  ( former  भूरा  University  और  University of Pennsylvania player ; head football  कोच  at Oberlin  कॉलेज  ,  auburn  University  ,   clemson  University , Rice University  ,  and the University of  पेन्सिलवेनिया   ;  and  फ़ुटबॉल  ,  बास्केट   ,   और   बेसबॉल  head coach  और  athletic director at Georgia  तकनीक   )   .
The  पुरस्कार   is  presented by the  heisman   ट्रॉफी   विश्वास  in  जल्दी  December before  the  postseason bowl  खेल  .
It is the  oldest  of  अनेक  overall  पुरस्कार  in college football , including the  मैक्सवेल  Award , Walter Camp Award , and  the  AP Player of the Year  .
The Heisman  और  the AP Player of the  साल   हैं  the only  पुरस्कार   to  honor  the   सबसे  outstanding player , while the  मैक्सवेल  Award and Walter Camp  पुरस्कार  recognize the  बेहतरीन  player ,  और  the  आर्ची   griffin  Award  recognizes  the most valuable player  .
The  संयुक्त  Nations Command (  unc  ) is  the  unified command  ढांचा  for  the   बहुराष्ट्रीय   सैन्य  forces supporting  the  Republic  of   कोरियाई  ( South  कोरियाई   or  ROK ) during  और   बाद  the  कोरियाई  War  .
After troops of the  लोकतांत्रिक  People 's Republic of  कोरियाई  ( North Korea  or   dprk   )   invaded  South Korea  on  June  25  , 1950 , the United  राष्ट्र  Security Council  अपनाया   रेज़ोल्यूशन  82 calling  on   उत्तर  Korea  to  cease  hostilities  and withdraw to  the  38th parallel .
On June  27  , 1950 ,  it  adopted Resolution 83 , recommending that members of the United  राष्ट्र   provide   सहायता  to the Republic of Korea `` to repel the  हथियारबंद  attack and to restore  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  peace and security  to  the area '' .
सुरक्षा  Council Resolution  84   ,  adopted on July  7  ,  1950  , recommended that  सदस्यों  providing  सैन्य  forces and  अन्य   सहायता   to  South Korea  ``  make such forces and other  सहायता  available  to  a unified command under  the  United States of America '' .
Although  the   रिज़ॉल्यूशन  suggested the forces under the UNC were `` United Nations  शक्तियां  ''  ,   और   संयुक्त  Nations itself  could   be   माना  a belligerent  ,   in   अभ्यास  the United Nations  exercised   no  control  over  the combat  शक्तियां  ,  जिससे   यहूद  controlled by the United States  .
Most observers  concluded   कि  the forces under the  unc  were not  in   विधि   संयुक्त   राष्ट्र   सैनिकों   ,   और   the  acts  of  the  unc   यहूद   नहीं  the acts of  the   संयुक्त  Nations .
the   unc   can   be   regarded  as an alliance of national armies  ,  operating under the collective  सही  of  self-defense  .
On August  29  , 1950 , the  अंग्रेजों   राष्ट्रमंडल   's  27th  infantry   ब्रिगेड  arrived at Busan to join  the  UNC  ,  which until then included  तभी   rok  and U.S. forces  .
The 27th Brigade  स्थानांतरित  into  the  Naktong River  लकीर   वेस्ट   of  Daegu .
troop   इकाई   इससे  other countries  of  the  un  followed in rapid  उत्तराधिकार  ;  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   ,  Belgian United Nations  कमांड  ,  कनाडा   ,   कोलंबिया  ,  इथियोपिया  , France  ,  Greece , Luxembourg  ,  the Netherlands  ,  New  जीलैंड  ,  the  Philippines  ,   थाईलैंड   और  Turkey  .
The Union of South  अफ़्रीकी   provided  air units  जिससे  fought alongside the air forces of other member nations  .
Denmark , India  ,   नार्वे  , and Sweden provided medical units .
Italy provided a hospital , even though  it   थी  not  a  UN member .
The United Nations  कमांड  and the Chinese-North Korean Command  हस्ताक्षरित  the Korean  armistice   अनुबंध   on  27  जुलाई   1953   ,   समाप्ति  the  भारी   लड़  .
The  armistice  agreement  स्थापित   the  Military  armistice   आयोग  (  मैक   )   ,   consisting  of representatives  of   the  two  signatories   ,   to  supervise the  क्रियान्वयन  of  the  armistice  शर्तें  .
The North  korean-chinese   मैक   रै  been replaced by  panmumjon  Representatives under exclusive  उत्तर  Korean  प्रबन्धन  .
Regular meetings  have  been stopped ,  हालांकि  duty officers of Joint Security  क्षेत्रफल  , commonly known  as   the  Truce  गाँव   of  Panmunjom , from  प्रत्येक   पक्ष  meet  regularly  .
lincoln   हाइट्स  is an  अमरीकी   परिवार  drama  टेलीविज़न  series about Eddie  सटन  ,  a  Mission  विस्टा   पुलिस   अधिकारी  who moves  उसके  family back to his old  पड़ोस  ,  lincoln   हाइट्स  , to  प्रारंभ   a   नई   जीवन  and to help  आउट   उसके   बूढ़ा   पड़ोस   .
It  is   a   खतरनाक  place to  उठाएँ  a family ,  और   through  the many  ट्रायल  the  परिवार  goes through  ,  they  जल्द  learn  कि  settling  in   is  not as  आसान  as it  seems  .
While Officer  सटन   struggles  to  cope   साथ  every day  जीवन  as a  गली   cop  in Los Angeles ,  उसके   बच्चे  try to  अनुरूप   in   at   उनके  new  स्कूलों  and with  उनके  new neighbors  .
the  show  premiered   जनवरी   8  ,  2007  on the ABC  परिवार   संजाल  with 13 episodes  ordered   लिये   the   पहला  season .
It  थी   स्वीकृत   लिये  a  दूसरी   ऋतु   ,  which  premiered   सितंबर  4 ,  2007  .
वैनेसा  Hudgens ' song  ,   कह  OK had been  प्रयुक्त  in a commercial to  प्रचार  the  दूसरी   ऋतु   .
to  promote the  तीसरा   ऋतु  ,  वे  showed  क्लिप्स   of   cassie   और   चार्ल्स  's relationship to  the   सोंग  , Crush by  the  American Idol  's  seventh  ऋतु  runner-up  ,  David  archuleta   .
To promote season  4  , they  're  using  the  song  ,   हिमस्खलन   by  Marie Digby .
The show  's  theme song was written and  performed  by bassist  स्टेनली   क्लार्क  and singer-songwriter Blaire Reinhard  .
On  जनवरी  29 , 2010  ,   एबीसी  Family announced the cancellation  of  the  श्रेणी   बाद   चार   सीज़न   .
a  Christian denomination is an  identifiable   धार्मिक   देह   अंतर्गत   a  common  नाम  ,  ढांचा   ,   और   doctrine   भीतर  Christianity .
in   the  Orthodox  परंपरा   ,   चर्च   हैं   विभाजित   प्रायः  along  जातीय  and linguistic  लाइनों  ,  into  separate  चर्च  and  परंपराओं  .
Technically , divisions  between  one group  और   another  are defined by doctrine and  गिरिजाघर  authority  .
Issues such as the nature  of   यीशु   ,   the   प्राधिकार  of  अपोस्टोलिक  succession  ,  eschatology  ,  and papal primacy  पृथक  one denomination from another .
The Roman Catholic Church is  the   largest  denomination  साथ   over   1.1  billion  सदस्यों   ,   over  half of all  ईसाइयों  worldwide ,  बनाना   it  the  largest   denomination   लिये  any  धर्म  worldwide (  हालांकि   the   गिरिजाघर   करता  not view  itself   as   a   denomination  ,  लकिन  as  the  original pre-denominational church  )   .
Protestant denominations comprise  roughly  38–39 %  of  Christians  विश्वव्यापी   ,  and  साथ   the  Catholics ,  protestants   ,   anglicans  ,  और  other closely related  denominations  comprise  पश्चिमी  Christianity .
The Eastern Orthodox Church ,  प्राच्य  Orthodox  चर्च   और   the   assyrian  Church  of  the  ईस्ट   हैं   माना   पूर्वी  Christian denominations  .
पश्चिमी   ईसाई  denominations prevail in Western Europe  और  its former  colonies   .
Eastern Christian denominations are  represented  mostly in  पूर्वी  Europe  ,   the  Middle  ईस्ट  and North  अफ़्रीकी  .
Christians  have  various  doctrines   परिचय   the   गिरिजाघर  ,  the   देह  of faithful  कि  they believe was established by Jesus  मसीह   ,  and  कैसा   the  divine  गिरिजाघर  corresponds to  ईसाई  denominations .
दोनो   the   catholics  and the  पूर्वी  Orthodox  consider  each of  themselves   solely  to  faithfully   represent  the  एक   पावन  Catholic and Apostolic Church to the exclusion of the  अन्य   .
protestants   अलग  from  the   कैथोलिक   गिरिजाघर   क्युकी   of  theologies and practices that they considered  to   be   in   उल्लंघन  of their  निर्वचन  .
generally   ,  members of the  विभिन्न  denominations  acknowledge  each  अन्य   as  Christians  ,  at least  to  the extent that they  have  mutually recognized baptisms  और   acknowledge  historically  परंपरागत  views including  the   देवत्व  of  यीशु  and doctrines of  सिन  and  मोक्ष  , even though doctrinal and  ecclesiological  obstacles  रोकते   पूरा  communion between  चर्च   .
Since  the  reforms  surrounding  Vatican II , the  कैथोलिक  Church  रै  referred to  प्रोटोस्टेंट   समुदायों   as  `` denominations '' ,  जबकि  reserving the  पद   ``   गिरिजाघर  ''  लिये   अपोस्टोलिक   चर्च  ,  सहित  the Eastern Orthodox  (  see  subsistit   in   और  branch theory )  .
वहीँ  are however  कुछ  non-denominational Christians  जो  do not  follow   कोई   particular  branch .
The  पांडा   (  Ailuropoda  melanoleuca  , lit  .
`` black and white cat-foot  ''  ) ,  भी   ज्ञात  as  the   दानव   पांडा  to distinguish it from the unrelated red  पांडा  , is  a  bear native to central-western  और   दक्षिण  western China  .
It is easily  पहचाना  by the large , distinctive black patches  around   इसके   आँखें   ,   over   the  ears , and across  इसके  round body .
Though it belongs  to  the  अनुक्रम  Carnivora  ,  the panda  's   आहार  is 99 % bamboo .
Pandas  in   the  wild  होगा  occasionally eat other grasses , wild tubers , or even meat in the  रूप  of birds  ,   rodents   or   carrion  .
In captivity  ,   वे   may  receive honey  ,  eggs  ,  fish  ,   yams  , shrub leaves  ,   संतरे   ,  or bananas along  साथ   विशेषकर   prepared   खाना  .
The  दानव  panda lives in  a   few  mountain ranges in  सेंट्रल  China , mainly  in   सिचुआन  province ,  लकिन   भी   in  the Shaanxi and Gansu provinces .
As  a  result  of  farming  ,  deforestation  और  other development , the panda has  महरूम  driven  आउट  of the  lowland  areas where it  एकबार  lived  .
the  panda is a  संरक्षण  reliant  endangered  species .
A  2007  report shows  239  pandas living  in  captivity inside China and another 27  बाहर  the country  .
जंगली  population estimates vary  ;  one estimate  shows  that  वहीँ   हैं   परिचय   1,590   individuals   जीना   in  the wild  ,  while a 2006  पढ़ाई  via DNA analysis estimated  कि  this  फिगर   could  be  as   ऊँची  as 2,000 to  3,000   .
Some reports  भी   दिखाएँ  that  the   क्रमांक  of pandas in  the  wild is  on  the rise  .
however  , the  आईयूसीएन   करता  not  मानना   वहीँ  is  पर्याप्त  certainty yet to reclassify  the   प्रजाति  from Endangered to Vulnerable .
जबकि  the dragon has  प्रायः   परोसा   as  China 's national emblem ,  internationally  the  पांडा  appears at least as commonly  .
as  such ,  it  is becoming  widely  used within China in  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   contexts   ,  for example the  पाँच  Fuwa  mascots   of  the  बीजिंग  Olympics .
the  Kite Runner  is   a  2007 American drama film  निर्देशित   by  Marc Forster based on  the   अनोखा   of  the same name by  खालिद   hosseini  .
It tells the  स्टोरी  of  आमिर  ,  a  well-to-do boy from  the  Wazir Akbar Khan district of Kabul  ,   जो  is  tormented  by the  guilt   of   abandoning  his  dost  Hassan , the son of  उसके   पिता  's Hazara servant .
The story is set  विरूद्ध  a  backdrop  of tumultuous events ,  इससे  the  पतन   of  the monarchy in Afghanistan through  the  Soviet military intervention  ,  the mass exodus of Afghan refugees  to  Pakistan and the United States ,  और  the  तालिबान   शासन  .
हालांकि  most of the film  is  set  in   अफगानिस्तान   ,  these parts  यहूद  mostly shot in Kashgar , China , due to  the  dangers  of  filming  in   अफगानिस्तान   at  the  समय  .
the  majority  of   the   फिल्मी   's  dialogue is in Dari ,  साथ   the   शेष  spoken in English .
the  child  अभिनेताओं  are native  अध्यक्षों   ,   लकिन   अनेक   वयस्क  actors had to  सीख  Dari  .
फिल्मांकन  wrapped up on December 21 ,  2006  , and  the   फिल्मी  was  अपेक्षित  to be released  on  November  2   ,  2007 .
However  ,  after concern for the safety of the young actors in the film due  to  fears  of  violent  reprisals   to   the  sexual  प्रकृति  of  कुछ  scenes  in   जिससे  they appear  ,   इसके  release  तिथि  was  धकेल  back  छह   सप्ताह  to December 14  ,  2007 .
the   पतंग   धावक  was released on DVD on  कूच  25 ,  2008   .
A HD  dvd  release  थी   घोषित  for the  वही  date , but was canceled  following  the  स्वरूप  's  निधन  .
the  film  थी  nominated  लिये  the  सुनहरी  Globe Award for Best  विदेशी   भाषा   फिल्मी  in 2007 .
the  film 's score by  अल्बर्टो  Iglesias was nominated for Best  असली  Score at the Golden  ग्लोब्स   और   the  Academy Awards .
the  legality  of  cannabis varies from country to country  .
Possession  of  cannabis is illegal in most  देशों  and  रै   महरूम   चूंकि  the beginning of  फैली   कैनबिस   निषेध   in   the   लेट   1930s  .
however  , many  देशों   have  decriminalized the  कब्ज़ा   of   छोटी  quantities of cannabis , particularly in North  अमेरिका  , South  अमेरिका  and  यूरोपीय   .
Furthermore , possession is legal  or   effectively  legal in the Netherlands , North Korea and  होता  be  in  the  u.S.   राज्य   of  Colorado and Washington if it  यहूद   नहीं  for  संघीय   विधि   ,  which governs persons  in   सब  states  .
The medicinal  उपयोग  of cannabis  is  legal in a number  of   देशों  , including Canada , the Czech Republic and Israel .
While  संघीय  law in the  संयुक्त   राज्य   bans  all  बिक्री   और   कब्ज़ा   of  cannabis , enforcement varies widely at the  राज्य   स्तर   और   कुछ  states have established  औषधीय  marijuana  कार्यक्रम   in  that contradict federal law  ;  two states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed  उनके   कानून   prohibiting  the recreational  उपयोग   of  cannabis  और   replaced   उन्हें  with a regulatory  शासन   ,  also contrary to federal  statute   .
कुछ   देशों  have laws  कि  are not as  vigorously   prosecuted  as others  लकिन  , apart  इससे  the countries  कि  offer  अभिगम   to   चिकित्सा  marijuana , most countries  have   विभिन्न   दंड  ranging  इससे  lenient  to  very severe  .
कुछ   infractions   हैं   लिया  more  seriously  in  कुछ  countries  than   अन्य  in regard  to  the cultivation ,  उपयोग  ,  कब्ज़ा  or transfer  of  cannabis for recreational use .
A few jurisdictions have lessened  दंड  for possession of small quantities  of  cannabis ,  बनाना  it punishable  by  confiscation and  a  fine  ,  rather than imprisonment .
Some  क्षेत्राधिकारs/   ड्रग   न्यायालयों  use mandatory  उपचार   कार्यक्रम   लिये  young  or   बारंबार  users  ,  with freedom  इससे  narcotic drugs  as   the  goal and  a  few jurisdictions permit  कैनबिस   उपयोग   लिये  medicinal purposes  .
वहीँ   हैं  also changes  in  a more restrictive direction  as   in  Canada .
Drug  परीक्षण  to  detect  cannabis are increasingly common in  अनेक  countries and have  resulted  in  कारावास   वाक्य   और  people  खोने   उनके   कार्य  .
However  ,  simple possession can carry long  कारावास  sentences in some countries ,  विशेषकर  in parts of  ईस्ट   एशिया  and  southeast  Asia  जहाँ  the sale  of  cannabis may lead  to  a  वाक्य  of  जीवन  in prison  or   भी  execution .
Loxahatchee  is   a   जातियाँ  located  in   ताड़   बीच   काउंटी   ,  Florida  ,   संयुक्त  States .
It is located  in   the   क्षेत्रों  north of Wellington  और  west and  उत्तरपश्चिम   of   royal  Palm  बीच   ,  Florida and  लगभग  west of  वेस्ट   ताड़   बीच  .
Loxahatchee is also the  नाम   of  the  पोस्ट  Office that serves  इस  area ,  जिससे  is under the zip code of 33470 .
the  name Loxahatchee means  ``   कछुआ   नदी  . ''
Loxahatchee is located  भीतर   the  Indian  trails   सुधार  District  और  the Loxahatchee Groves  जल  Control  ज़िला   .
शेर  Country Safari  ,  a drive-through safari park  ,  is located  in  Loxahatchee .
In 2006  ,  the state of Florida approved  incorporation   of   भाग  of  loxahatchee  as the Town of Loxahatchee Groves  to   become   the  38th municipality in  ताड़   बीच  County  .
The  प्रमुख  reason  लिये   incorporating   थी   to  better protect  the  area  इससे  encroaching growth  और  to preserve  the  rural  अक्षर  of  the   पड़ोस   .
Perhaps the most  ग्रामीण   क्षेत्रफल  within  a   बंद  proximity  to  West  ताड़   बीच  , with lot sizes range from  1-20  acres  .
साथ  with  the  Acreage ,  it   is  notable for  ढीला  land  प्रतिबंध  and the native and exotic  एनिमल  presence is quite  notable   .
seminole   लकीरें   ऊँची  School serves  the  area  .
The Canadian Citizenship Test is a  परीक्षण  , administered  by   नागरिकता   और  Immigration Canada ( CIC ) , that  is   जरूरी  for  सब   आवेदकों  for  कनाडाई   नागरिकता  who  हैं  aged between  18  and  54  and  जो  meet the basic requirements for citizenship  .
The  परीक्षण   is  available  in   दोनो   फ्रेंच  and  अंग्रेज़ी  , the  आधिकारिक  languages of Canada  .
Renaissance  क्रूज़  , originally founded in 1989 owned by Fearnley  &  Eger  rederi   in  Oslo  -  Norway  ,   बाद  purchased  by  Edward Rudner  (  founder  of  Alamo  car  Rental ) as the company faltered during  the  Gulf War  .
वे  operated year-round cruise  itineraries  to the  भूमध्यसागरीय   ,  the Greek Isles , Tahiti and  the  South Pacific  ,   उत्तरी  Europe and  scandinavia  .
the  company ceased  परिचालन  on 25  सितंबर  2001 and accommodated  up  to  220,000   अतिथि  in  2000   .
While  the  company  था  been in poor financial  स्वास्थ्य   लिये  quite some  समय  , the economic  मनाही  resulting from  the   सितंबर   11th  terrorist attacks are  credited  with the demise of this  क्रूज  line  .
the  fleet is  सूचीबद्ध  under List  of   क्रूज  ships  .
it  was  headquartered  in  फोर्ट  Lauderdale  ,  Florida  .
epithelium  is  एक  of the four basic types  of   एनिमल   ऊतक   ,   साथ   साथ   संयोजी  tissue , muscle tissue  और   बेचैन  tissue .
epithelial  tissues line  the  cavities  और  surfaces of structures  throughout  the body  ,  and  भी  form  अनेक  glands  .
Functions of epithelial  कोशिकाएं  include  स्राव  ,  चयनात्मक  absorption , protection , transcellular  हस्तांतरण  and detection of  सनसनी  .
In  यूनानी  ``  ἐπί   ''  ( `` epi '' )  अर्थात्  `` on  ''   or  `` upon  ''  , and `` θηλή '' ( ``  thēlē  '' )  अर्थात्  ``  nipple  ''  .
Epithelial layers are avascular  ,  so  वे  must receive  nourishment   via   diffusion   of  substances from the  underlying  connective tissue , through the basement  झिल्ली   .
Epithelia  can  also  be  organized into  क्लस्टर  of cells  कि  function as  बहिःस्रावी   और  endocrine glands .
Kent E. Hovind ( born January  15  ,  1953   )  is  an  American young Earth  creationist  .
Hovind  रै  spoken on creation  विज्ञान   और   रै  aimed to  मनाना  listeners to  अस्वीकृत  theories of evolution  ,   भूभौतिकी   ,  and  cosmology  in favor  of   उसके  interpretation  of  the  उत्पत्ति   सृष्टि   कथा  from the Bible  .
Hovind 's views are  contradicted  by scientific  प्रमाण  and some  of  his  विचार  have  भी  been criticized by young  धरती   creationist   संगठन   ऐसे   as  Answers in Genesis  .
Hovind established  the   सृष्टि  Science Evangelism  in   1991   ,   और  frequently spoke on young  धरती  creationism at  seminars  at  निजी  schools and churches , debates  ,   और   on  radio and  टेलीविज़न  broadcasts  .
चूंकि   जनवरी   2007   ,   hovind   रै  been  सेवारत  a  ten-year   थाना  sentence  बाद  being convicted of 58 federal counts , including  12  tax offenses , one count of  obstructing  federal agents  ,  and 45  रिश्तो  of structuring cash transactions  .
he  is  incarcerated   at  the  संघीय  Correctional Institution  at  Berlin  ,  New Hampshire  .
Bride with Bindi  सजा   माथे
A bindi  (  ,  इससे  Sanskrit  bindu  , meaning `` a drop  ,  small particle  ,  dot ''  )   ,  or  a  pottu/bottu (  in   तमिल  ,  तेलुगु  , and  मलयालम   )  is  a  forehead decoration  worn  in  दक्षिण  Asia ( particularly  इण्डिया  , Bangladesh  ,   नेपाल  , Sri  लंका  and Mauritius )  और  Southeast Asia .
Traditionally it  is   a   उज्जवल   बिन्दु  of red  रंग   लागू  in  the  center of the forehead close to  the  eyebrows  ,  but it  can   भी   consist   of   a   चिह्न  or piece of jewelry worn at this location .
The  नई  York  gubernatorial   चुनाव  of  2010   थी  held  on  Tuesday ,  नवम्बर  2  ,  2010  ,  to elect  the  Governor of New  यॉर्क  , to  serve  a  four-year  term that began in January 2011  .
लाज़िम  Democratic Governor David Paterson  ,   निर्वाचित   as   लेफ्टिनेंट   राज्यपाल   in  2006  as   the  running mate of former Governor Eliot  स्पिट्जर  , chose  नहीं   to  run for  a   full-term   .
on  November  2   ,   नई   यॉर्क  Attorney General and Democrat Andrew Cuomo  पराजित  Republican Carl  paladino  .
Green  पार्टी   प्रत्याशी  Howie  हॉकिन्स  received over 57,000  मत  ,  allowing  the  नई  York  ग्रीन  Party to  be  listed on the ballot for  the  next  4  years  .
the  main cast of Dragon Ball  at   the  end of  the  manga .
The  ड्रैगन   बॉल  manga  और   दुश्मनी   श्रेणी  features  an   extensive  cast of characters created by Akira Toriyama .
The  श्रेणी  takes place in a fictional universe , the same  as  Toriyama 's  पिछला   श्रेणी  Dr.  slump  ,  और  follows the  adventures   of  martial artist Son Goku from childhood to  adulthood  as  he   खोज   लिये  the seven  spheres  known as the  ड्रैगन  Balls ,  प्रयुक्त   to   summon  a wish-granting dragon  .
During the course  of   the   स्टोरी  , he encounters  allies   ऐसे   as  Bulma  ,   yamcha  , Kuririn  और  Trunks  ,  rivals such as Tenshinhan  ,   piccolo  and  vegeta   ,  and  दुश्मनों   ऐसे  as Freeza  और  Cell .
जबकि   अनेक   of  the  वर्ण   हैं  humans with superhuman  शक्ति   and/or  supernatural  abilities  , the cast also includes anthropomorphic  पशु   और   बाद   ,   extraterrestrial  lifeforms .
The  श्रेणी  also includes  depictions  of  the  afterlife , with several characters being gods that  govern   the   ब्रह्मांड   .
250px
The Comanche  हैं   a   मैदान  Indian  जनजाति  whose  ऐतिहासिक  territory  ,  known  as   comancheria   ,   consisted  of present  दिन  eastern  नई  Mexico  ,  southern Colorado  ,   northeastern   एरिज़ोना   ,  southern Kansas , all of Oklahoma  ,  and  सबसे  of  उत्तरपश्चिम  Texas  .
The Comanche people are enrolled in the  federally  recognized  comanche   स्वदेश  , in Oklahoma .
Historically , the Comanches were hunter-gatherers with  a   घोड़ा  culture .
There  may   have   महरूम  as  अनेक   as  45,000  comanches  in the late 18th  सदी  .
आज  , the  comanche   स्वदेश  Comanche  जनजातीय   नामांकन   संख्याएँ  15,191 with approximately 7,763 members  residing  in  the  Lawton –  फोर्ट   sill   और   surrounding   क्षेत्रों   of   दक्षिणपश्चिम   ओक्लाहोमा  .
The  comanche   स्वदेश   homecoming  Powwow  is  held  annually   in   walters   ,  Oklahoma in  mid-july   .
The Comanche  spoke  the Comanche language ,  a  Numic language of  the  Uto-Aztecan  परिवार   ,  sometimes classified  as  a  shoshone  dialect  ;   however  , only about 1 %  of   comanches  speak  it   आज   .
ethan   frome  is  a  novel published in  1911   by  the Pulitzer Prize  -winning   अमरीकी  author  एडिथ  Wharton  .
It  is   नियत  in the fictitious  कस्बा  of Starkfield ,  मैसाचुसेट्स   .
The novel was adapted  into   a  film  ,  Ethan  frome  , in 1993  .
Times  वर्गाकार  Studios  (  TSS ) is  an  American television studio located in  the  Times Square neighborhood of  the  Manhattan borough  of   नई  York City  ,   नई  York  .
The studio  is  best known as  the   उत्पादन   घर  of  एबीसी   न्यूज  '  शुभ  Morning  अमेरिका   (   जीएमए  )  ,   a   morning  news  और  talk program and segments for GMA  on   एबीसी   न्यूज  Now .
The  लास  Vegas Strip World  of   coca-cola   संग्रहालय  in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated  नरम   पेय  sold in  स्टोर्स  , restaurants , and vending machines  in  every country except  क्यूबा  and  उत्तर   कोरियाई  .
it   is  produced by The Coca-Cola  कम्पनी  of Atlanta , Georgia , and is  प्रायः  referred  to  simply as  कोक  ( a  पंजीकृत  trademark  of   the  Coca-Cola Company in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   चूंकि  March 27 ,  1944  ) .
Originally intended  as  a  पेटेंट   आयुर्विज्ञान   जब  it  थी  invented in the  लेट   19th  century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola  थी   खरीदा  out  by  businessman Asa  griggs   candler   ,   जिनकी   विपणन  tactics  led  Coke  to  its dominance  of   the  world soft-drink  मार्केट  throughout the 20th century .
The  कम्पनी  produces  concentrate  , which  is   तब  sold to  licensed  Coca-Cola bottlers  throughout  the  संसार  .
The bottlers ,  जो  hold territorially exclusive  अनुबंध  with  the   कम्पनी  , produce  समाप्त  product in  डिब्बे  and bottles from the  concentrate  in combination  साथ   filtered  water and sweeteners .
the  bottlers then sell , distribute  और  merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines .
ऐसे   bottlers  include  coca-cola   उद्यमों   ,  which is  the  largest single Coca-Cola bottler  in  North  अमेरिका  and western  यूरोपीय  .
The Coca-Cola Company  भी  sells concentrate for soda  स्रोतों   to  major restaurants and food service  वितरकों  .
The  coca-cola  Company has ,  on  occasion ,  introduced   अन्य   कोला  drinks  अंतर्गत   the  Coke brand  नाम  .
The  सबसे  common  of  these is Diet  कोक  ,  साथ   अन्य  including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola ,  आहार   कोक  Caffeine-Free  ,   coca-cola   चेरी  ,  coca-cola  Zero , Coca-Cola Vanilla ,  और  special  संस्करण   साथ  lemon ,  लाइम  or  कॉफी  .
आधारित  on Interbrand  's  best  वैश्विक  brand 2011  ,  Coca-Cola  थी   the  world 's most valuable brand .
प्रकार  of  bar-lines
In  musical   संकेतन  , a bar (  or  measure  )  is a  खण्ड   of  time defined by a  दिए  number of beats , each of which are assigned a  particular  note value .
Dividing music  into  bars provides regular reference points  to  pin  पाइंट  locations  भीतर  a piece  of  music .
It also  makes   लिखा  music  easier  to  follow  ,  चूंकि  each  बार  of  स्टाफ  symbols  can  be read and played  as  a  बैच  .
Typically  ,  a  टुकड़ा  consists of several bars  of  the same length , and  in  modern  musical  notation  the  number  of  beats in  प्रत्येक   बार  is specified  at   the  beginning of the  स्कोर  by the top number of  a   समय  signature (  ऐसे  as 3/4 )  ,  while the  नीचे   क्रमांक   indicates  the note  मान  of  the  beat  (   the   ताल   रै   a  quarter note  मान  in the  3/4  example  )  .
The  शब्द  bar  is  more common  in  British  अंग्रेज़ी   ,  and the word measure is more  आम  in  अमरीकी   अंग्रेज़ी  , although  संगीतकारों   generally   समझे   दोनो  usages .
In American  अंग्रेज़ी  ,  हालांकि   the  words bar and measure are often  प्रयुक्त   interchangeably  the correct use of  the  word  'bar  '  refers  only  to   the  vertical  लकीर  itself , while the word 'measure  '   refers  to the  बीट्स  contained between bars  .
In international  उपयोग   ,  it  is  equally correct  to   बोलो   of  bar numbers  और   माप   संख्याएँ  ,  e.g  . ‘bars  9–16’   or   ‘mm  . 9–16’  .
साथ  the same  लाइनों  , it is  हिकमत  to reserve the abbreviated form  ‘bb   .
3–4’   इत्यादि  . for beats only ; bars  चाहिए  be  referred   to   by  name in  पूरा  .
the  first metrically complete  माप   भीतर  a piece of music is  पुकारा  ‘bar  1’   or  ‘m . 1’  .
जब  the piece  begins  with an anacrusis ( an  अधूरी   माप   at   the  head  of  a piece of music ) , ‘bar 1’ or ‘m .  1’  is  the  following measure  .
the   19.9  MW  gemasolar   सौर   संयंत्र   in  Spain features 15  घंटों   of   भंडार   और  can supply  शक्ति   24   घंटों   a   दिन  .
Solar  उर्जा   ,  radiant light  और  heat from the sun , has  महरूम  harnessed by humans since  प्राचीन  times  using  a  दायरा  of ever-evolving technologies  .
सौर   उर्जा  technologies include  सौर  heating  ,   सौर   photovoltaics  , solar thermal electricity , solar architecture and  कृत्रिम   photosynthesis   ,   जिससे  can make considerable contributions  to   solving  some of  the   सबसे   तात्कालिक  energy problems the  संसार  now  चेहरों   .
सौर  technologies  हैं  broadly characterized  as  either passive solar or active  सौर   depending  on  the   रास्ता   वे   कैप्चर  , convert and distribute solar energy  .
Active  सौर  techniques include  the   उपयोग  of  photovoltaic   panels  and  सौर  thermal collectors  to   दोहन  the  उर्जा  .
Passive solar techniques include  orienting  a  भवन  to  the  Sun , selecting  सामग्री   साथ  favorable  थर्मल   द्रव्यमान  or light dispersing  गुण  ,  और   डिजाइनिंग   स्पेसेस  that naturally  circulate  air  .
In 2011 ,  the  International Energy  एजेंसी   कहा  that  ``   the   विकास   of   सस्ती   ,  inexhaustible and  साफ  solar energy technologies  होगा   have   विशाल  longer-term benefits .
it   होगा  increase countries’  उर्जा  security through reliance  on  an  स्वदेशी  ,  inexhaustible  and mostly  import-independent   संसाधन   ,  enhance sustainability ,  reduce  pollution , lower  the  costs  of  mitigating climate  बदलें   ,   और  keep fossil fuel prices lower  than   वरना  .
These advantages are global .
hence  the additional  लागत  of the  प्रोत्साहन  for early  deployment  should  be   माना  learning investments ;  वे  must be wisely spent and  need  to  be   widely   साझा   ''   .
Primary  परवाह  may be  provided   in   जातियाँ  health  केंद्रों   .
प्राथमिक  care is the  स्वास्थ्य   परवाह   दिए   by   a  health care provider .
Typically  इस  provider  अधिनियमों   as   the   प्रिंसिपल  point of consultation  लिये  patients within  a  health care system and coordinates  अन्य  specialists that the patient may  need   .
Such a professional can  be   a  primary  परवाह   चिकित्सक  ,  ऐसे   as  a  सामान्य  practitioner  or   परिवार   चिकित्सक  , or  depending   on  the locality , health  प्रणाली  organization , and patient  's  discretion ,  वे  may see a  फार्मासिस्ट  ,  a  physician assistant , a  नर्स   practitioner  , a  नर्स   (   ऐसे  as in  the   संयुक्त   किंगडम  )  ,  a  नैदानिक  officer ( such as in parts  of  Africa ) , or an Ayurvedic or other traditional  आयुर्विज्ञान  professional ( such as  in  parts  of  Asia )  .
depending  on  the  nature of the health condition , patients  may  then be  referred  for  द्वितीयक  or tertiary  परवाह  .
``  समंदर   एवेन्यू   ''  is  a  song recorded by  अमरीकी  pop  पंक  group  yellowcard  .
It  थी   released  in  फ़रवरी  2004  as  the second  सिंगल  from  समंदर   एवेन्यू  and the  तीसरा  track .
it   is  known for  bringing  them into the mainstream  ,  as  it  received  numerous   spins  on  एमटीवी  and increasing radio airplay  .
समंदर   एवेन्यू  is  a  street  in   jacksonville   ,   फ्लोरिडा  , the band 's stomping grounds near their high school , Douglas  एंडरसन   स्कूल   of   the   कला   ,  and another  गली  mentioned  in  the song ,  चेरी  Street .
The  नाम  of Ocean Avenue in Jacksonville is actually Beach Boulevard  .
They left  उनके  original  आधार   पीछे  when they moved  to   लॉस  Angeles  .
the  song was  प्रदर्शित  on the Much  म्यूज़िक  compilation  एल्बम  Big Shiny  धुनें  9  .
a  psychiatrist is a  चिकित्सक  who  specializes  in  psychiatry   .
a   मनोचिकित्सक   specializes   in  the treatment of mental  विकार  .
Psychiatrists are  प्राधिकृत  to prescribe medicine , conduct physical  examinations   ,   अनुक्रम  and interpret laboratory  परीक्षण  , use psychotherapy  और   may  order  दिमाग  imaging studies  ऐसे  as  computed  tomography (  ct/cat  Scan  )  ,  चुम्बकीय   अनुनाद  imaging  (   mri  ) ,  और   positron   उत्सर्जन  tomography ( PET )  स्कैनिंग   .
Within the framework  of  the World  स्वास्थ्य  Organization  's  (  जो  ) definition  of  health as a state  of   पूरा  physical , mental and social well-being , and  नहीं  merely  the  absence of disease  or   infirmity   ,   reproductive   स्वास्थ्य  , or sexual health/hygiene , addresses  the  reproductive  प्रक्रियाओं  ,  कृत्यों  and  प्रणाली  at all stages of  जीवन   .
reproductive  health ,  इसलिए  , implies  कि  people  हैं  able  to  have a  जिम्मेदार  ,  संतोषजनक  and safer sex  जीवन   और  that they have  the  capability to  reproduce  and  the   स्वतंत्रता   to  decide if ,  जब   और  how often to do so .
एक   निर्वचन   of  this implies that men and women  ought  to be  सूचित   of  and to  have  access to safe ,  प्रभावी  , affordable and acceptable methods of  जनम  control ; also access to  उचित  health  परवाह  services of  यौन  , reproductive medicine  और   क्रियान्वयन  of  स्वास्थ्य  education  कार्यक्रम   to  stress the importance  of  women to  go  safely  through  pregnancy  और  childbirth  could  provide couples  साथ  the best  मौका  of  having   a   स्वस्थ  infant .
On the  अन्य   हाथ  individuals  do  face  inequalities   in  reproductive  स्वास्थ्य  services .
Inequalities  vary  based  on  socioeconomic status  ,  education level , age ,  नस्ल  , religion ,  और  resources  उपलब्धियाँ  in  उनके  environment .
It  is  possible  लिये   उदाहरण  ,  कि   कम  income individuals lack  the   संसाधन   लिये   उचित  health services  और   the   ज्ञान   to   जान  what  is  appropriate  लिये   maintaining  reproductive health  .
According to the  जो  , ``  reproductive   और   यौन  ill-health  खाते   लिये  20  %  of the  वैश्विक  burden of ill-health for women , and  14   %  for men  .   ''
Reproductive health is a part of  यौन  and reproductive health and rights .
This  is  a list  of   एपीसोड  for the Disney Channel original series The  सुइट  Life on Deck ,  जिससे  aired  लिये   तीन  seasons on Disney  चैनल  from September  26  , 2008 to May 6 ,  2011   .
कोर   2   is  a brand  encompassing  a range  of  Intel 's  उपभोक्ता   64-bit  x86-64  single-  , dual- ,  और   quad-core   microprocessors  based  on  the  कोर  microarchitecture  .
the  single- and dual-core models  हैं   single-   die  , whereas the quad-core  मॉडल  comprise  दो   मरता  ,  प्रत्येक   containing   दो  cores  ,  packaged in  a  multi-chip module .
the  introduction  of  Core 2 relegated the Pentium brand  to   the  mid-range  मार्केट   ,  and  reunified   लैपटॉप   और   डेस्कटॉप  CPU  लाइनों  ,  जिससे  previously  था  been  विभाजित  into the  pentium  4 , Pentium  d   ,   और  Pentium  m  brands .
The Core  2  brand was  introduced  on  27   जुलाई  2006  ,  comprising the Solo (  single-core  )  ,  Duo (  dual-core   )  , Quad (  quad-core  ) , and  in  2007 , the Extreme  (   दुआl-  or quad-core CPUs for enthusiasts ) subbrands .
Intel Core 2  processors  with vPro technology  (  designed for businesses ) include the dual-core and  quad-core  branches  .
the   सुपर  Bowl is the  सालाना  championship game  of   the  National Football  लीग   (  NFL )  ,  the highest level of  पेशेवर  American football  in  the  संयुक्त  States , culminating a  ऋतु  that  begins  in  the   लेट  summer of the previous  पंचांग   साल   .
The  सुपर  Bowl  उपयोग  Roman  numerals  to identify each game ,  बल्कि  than the  साल  in which it  is  held .
For  उदाहरण  , Super Bowl  i  was  निभाई   on  January 15 ,  1967  , following the 1966  नियमित   ऋतु  ,  जबकि  Super Bowl XLVII was played  on  February  3  ,  2013  ,  following  the  2012   ऋतु   .
The  खेल   थी   निर्मित  as part  of  a merger agreement between  the   एनएफएल  and its  then-rival  league , the American  फ़ुटबॉल   लीग  ( AFL  )  .
it   थी  agreed that  the   दो  leagues  '  champion  टीमों   होता   खेल   in  an  afl–nfl  World Championship Game until the merger was  to  officially begin in 1970 .
After the merger  ,  each league was  redesignated  as  a  `` conference `` ,  और  the game was  तब  played  between   the   सम्मेलन  champions .
फिलहाल   ,  the  नेशनल  Football  सम्मेलन  ( NFC )  लीड  the series with 25  विन्स   to  22  विन्स   लिये   the  American Football Conference  (  AFC ) .
The  दिन  on  जिससे  the  सुपर  Bowl is played ,  अभी   माना  by  कुछ  a de facto American national  अवकाश  , is called  ``  Super  कटोरी   संडे  `` .
It is  the  second-largest  दिन   लिये  U.S. food consumption ,  बाद  Thanksgiving Day  .
in  addition ,  the  Super Bowl has  अक्सर   महरूम  the  सबसे  watched  अमरीकी  television  ब्रॉडकास्ट  of the year .
Super  कटोरी   xlv  , played in 2011 , became the most-watched  अमरीकी   टेलीविज़न   कार्यक्रम  in history ,  आरेखण   an   औसत   दर्शक   of  111 million  दर्शक  and taking over the  स्पॉट   आयोजित   by  the previous  साल  's Super  कटोरी  , which itself had taken over  the   #   1  spot  आयोजित  for  twenty-eight  years by  the   फाइनल   एपीसोड   of  M*A*S*H  .
The Super Bowl is  भी   among  the  सबसे  watched sporting events in the world , almost  सब   होने   उत्तर  American  ऑडियंस  , and is  दूसरी   to  association football ’s  यूईएफए   champions  League final  as  the most watched  सालाना   sporting  event worldwide .
Because  of   इसके  high  viewership   ,  commercial airtime during the  सुपर  Bowl  ब्रॉडकास्ट   is   the   सबसे  expensive of the year  .
Due  to  the  ऊँची  cost of  निवेश  in  विज्ञापन   on   the  Super Bowl  ,  companies regularly develop their  सबसे   महंगी   विज्ञापन  for  इस  broadcast  .
as   a   परिणाम  , watching  और  discussing the  ब्रॉडकास्ट  's  commercials  has  become  a significant  पहलू  of  the  event .
In  जोड  , many  लोकप्रिय   गायकों  and musicians  have   performed  during the event  's  pre-game  और  halftime ceremonies because of the exposure .
फिओना  is  a  feminine given  नाम  .
The name  फिओना  was invented , and  पहला  used  ,  by  the  Scottish  कवि  James Macpherson ( 1736–96 ) , author of the Ossian poems , which he  claimed  were translations from  प्राचीन  Gaelic  स्त्रोत  ( sources , when challenged  ,   he  never produced )  .
The name  थी  subsequently used  as   a  pseudonym by William  शार्प  ( 1855–1905 )  ,  who  authored  several romantic  works  under the  नाम  ``  फिओना  Macleod ''  .
The  नाम   रै   चूंकि  become popular in  इंग्लैण्ड  ,  स्कॉटलैंड  and  आयरलैंड  .
The  नाम  is considered  to  be  a  Latinised  रूप   of  the Gaelic  शब्द   fionn   ,  meaning `` white  ''   ,   ``  fair  ''   .
The name  फिओना  is  भी  sometimes used  as  an  anglicisation  of  the  Irish-language  नाम  Fíona  ,  although  ये  names are otherwise unrelated ( as  fíona   is   निकला  from an  तत्व  meaning  ``   बेल   ''  ) .
वहीँ   is  also a  आधुनिक  tendency to equate  the   प्रामाणिक  Scottish Gaelic feminine name  fionnghal  with Fiona .
the   नाम  Fiona  is  rising  in   लोकप्रियता  particularly in  जर्मनी  -speaking  देशों   .
फिओना  was the  49th  most popular name for baby girls born  in  2008  in  Germany  .
Fiona  थी   tied   लिये  third place  in  the ranking  of  most  लोकप्रिय   names   लिये  baby girls  born   in   the  tiny  principality  of Liechtenstein in 2008 .
the  name was the  347th  most  लोकप्रिय  name  लिये  girls  born  in  the  United  राज्य  in  2008  ,  जहाँ   it  has  क्रमित  among  the  top  1,000  most popular names  लिये  girls since 1990 and among  the   शीर्ष   500  since  1999   .
the  name  फिओना  has  महरूम  particularly popular  लिये  girls  of  Asian or Pacific  islander   descent   in  New York City , where  फिओना   क्रमित  as the ninth  सबसे  popular name for girls from those  समूह   in  2007 .
अनेक  languages are used  ,   or  historically have been  प्रयुक्त   in  the  संयुक्त  States .
the   सबसे  commonly  प्रयुक्त  language is English .
There  हैं  also many  भाषाएं  indigenous to North  अमेरिका   or   to  U.S.  राज्य   or  holdings  in   the  Pacific region .
भाषाएं  brought to  the  country  by  colonists or  आप्रवासियों  from Europe  ,  Asia  ,  or  अन्य   भाग  of  the  world make up a  विशाल  portion  of  the  भाषाएं   फिलहाल  used ; several languages  ,   सहित  creoles and sign languages ,  have   भी  developed in the United States  .
Approximately  337   भाषाएं  are spoken  or   हस्ताक्षरित  by the  जनसांख्यिकी  ,  of  which 176 are indigenous to the  क्षेत्रफल  .
fifty-two   भाषाएं   formerly   बोला  in the country  's   territory   हैं  now extinct .
The  किस्में   of  English spoken in  the  United States  is   ज्ञात  as American English .
English is  the   de   facto  national language of the United  राज्य  ,  साथ  80  %  of the population  claiming   it  as  a  mother tongue , and  कुछ  95  %   claiming  to speak it  ``  well '' or `` very  खूब   ''   .
however  ,  no  official language exists  at  the  संघीय   स्तर   .
There  have  been several proposals  to   मेक  English the  नेशनल  language  in  amendments  to  immigration  सुधार   बिल्स   ,  but none of these bills  रै  become  विधि  with the  amendment  intact .
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial levels  ,   साथ  some  राज्य   mirroring  the  संघीय  policy  of  adopting no official language in a  de  jure capacity  ,   अन्य  adopting English alone , others officially  adopting   अंग्रेज़ी   as   खूब  as  लोकल   भाषाएं   ,  and  स्टिल  others adopting  a  policy of de facto bilingualism  .
Spanish  is   the  second most common language in  the  country  ,   और  is  बोला   by   over   12   %  of the population  .
The  संयुक्त  States  holds  the world  's   पांचवां   largest   spanish-speaking  population  ,  outnumbered only by  मैक्सिको   ,  Spain , Colombia , and  अर्जेंटीना   .
Throughout the Southwestern United States  ,  long-established  spanish-speaking  communities  coexist   साथ  large numbers of  अधिक  recent Hispanophone immigrants  .
Although  अनेक   नई  Latin American  आप्रवासियों   हैं  less than  धाराप्रवाह  in English ,  nearly  all second-generation  हिस्पैनिक   अमेरिकी   बोलो  English  धड़ल्ले   ,   जबकि  only about  हाफ  still speak Spanish .
According  to  the 2000  us  census  ,  people  of  German ancestry make up  the  largest  सिंगल   जातीय  group  in   the  United States ,  और  the German language ranks  पांचवां  .
इतालवी  , Polish , and  फ्रेंच  are still widely spoken  among  populations  descending  from immigrants from those  देशों  in the early 20th  सदी  , but the use of  ये  languages  is  dwindling as the  पुरानी   पीढियां  die .
रूसी  is also spoken by immigrant populations  .
tagalog   और   वियतनामी   have  over  एक  million speakers each in  the  United States , almost entirely within  हाल   अप्रवासी   populations   .
दोनो  languages ,  साथ   साथ  the varieties of the  चाइनीज   भाषा   ,  Japanese  ,   और  Korean , are  अभी  used  in   चुनावों  in Alaska , California ,  हवाई   ,  Illinois , New York , Texas ,  और  Washington .
Native American languages are  बोला   in   छोटी  pockets  of   the   देश  ,  लकिन  these populations  हैं   अवरोहण   ,   और   the  languages  हैं  almost never  widely   प्रयुक्त  outside  of   रिज़र्वेशन   .
Hawaiian  ,   हालांकि  having few native  अध्यक्षों  , is an official language along with English at  the   राज्य  level in  हवाई  .
The  राज्य   सरकारी  of  louisiana  offers services and documents in French , as  करता  New  मैक्सिको  in Spanish  .
besides  English , Spanish , French ,  जर्मनी  , Navajo and  अन्य   देशी  American  भाषाएं  ,  सब  other  भाषाएं  are usually learned from  अप्रवासी   पूर्वजो  that came  बाद  the time of  स्वतंत्रता   or   सीखे  through some form  of   शिक्षा   .
1990 's Pontiac Grand Am Sedan  फेंडर  and  क्वार्टर   फलक
on   an   ऑटोमोबाइल  , a  क्वार्टर   फलक  ( or  पश्च  wing  as   it  is  ज्ञात  in  अंग्रेजों  English ) is  प्रायः   माना  the body panel which  goes   between   the  rear door and the  ट्रंक  and typically wraps around  the  wheel  खूब  ; however  ,   the  similar  सामने  section  फेंडर  (  गाडी  ) , between  the   द्वार   और  the  हुड  , is  sometimes   incorrectly   referred   to  as a  क्वार्टर   फलक   .
The  क्वार्टर  panel is  typically  made of Sheet  मेटल  , but is  sometimes  made  of  fiberglass or  fiber-reinforced  plastic ;  हालांकि  ,  इस  varies with  अलग  makes  और  models .
a  quarter panel is typically  a   welded  on  घटक  of the  uni-body  structure  or  Monocoque .
Replacement  of   a  sheet metal quarter  फलक  typically requires it  to   be   काटें   बंद  the vehicle and a replacement part to be  welded  ( or  sometimes   बंधुआ   )  to  the   गाडी  .
Due  to  this high amount of  specialized  labor ,  a   क्वार्टर   फलक   may  often be repaired rather than replaced by  hammering   आउट   the   क्षति  ,  और   a  body filler sometimes referred to  as   bondo   to  be  लागू  to  finalize  the  असली  surface .
shropshire  (  or   ;   alternatively   salop  ;  abbreviated  ,  in   छपाई  only , Shrops ) is a county  in   the  West Midlands region  of   इंग्लैण्ड  .
it  borders  वेल्स  to  the  west ,  चेशायर  to  the   उत्तर   ,  Staffordshire  to   the  east  ,  Worcestershire to  the  south-east and Herefordshire to the south  .
a   एकात्मक   प्राधिकार  ( Shropshire Council ) was created on 1 April 2009 ,  लेने   over  from the previous  काउंटी   परिषद  and  5   ज़िला   councils  , and covers most  of   the  county  .
The borough of Telford and Wrekin has been  a  separate  एकात्मक  authority  चूंकि  1998 but  continues  to  be  included  in  the ceremonial  काउंटी  .
The  काउंटी  's population  और  economy  is   केंद्रित  on five towns : the  काउंटी   कस्बा  of  shrewsbury   ,  which is culturally  और   historically  important  और   is  located  in  the  केन्द्र  of  the   काउंटी   ;  Telford , a new  कस्बा   in  the east  जिससे   थी  constructed around  a   क्रमांक   of  older  कस्बों  ,  सबसे   notably  Wellington  ,  Dawley and  madeley  , which is today  the   सबसे  populous ; and Oswestry  in   the  north-west  ,  Bridgnorth  बस  to the south  of  Telford  ,  and Ludlow in the south .
the   काउंटी  has many further  मार्केट  towns , including Whitchurch in the north , Newport  बस   to   the   north-east  of Telford  ,   और   मार्केट   drayton  in the  north-east  of  the   काउंटी   .
The Ironbridge  gorge  area is a UNESCO World Heritage Site  ,   covering  Ironbridge  ,   coalbrookdale  and  a  part  of  Madeley  .
There are , additionally , other notable historic industrial  साइट  located around the  काउंटी  , such  as   at  Shrewsbury , Broseley ,  snailbeach  and Highley  as   खूब  as  the  Shropshire Union  कनाल  .
the  Shropshire Hills Area  of  Outstanding  प्राकृतिक   सौंदर्य   कवर   परिचय  a  क्वार्टर   of   the  county , mainly in the  दक्षिण  .
shropshire   is   एक  of  इंग्लैण्ड   's   सबसे   ग्रामीण   और   sparsely  populated  काउंटी  , with the  जनसांख्यिकी   घनत्व  of the Shropshire Council  क्षेत्रफल  being just 91/km2  (  337/sq  mi  )  .
The Wrekin  is  one of  the   सबसे  famous natural landmarks in  the   काउंटी  ,  हालांकि   the   उच्चतम  hills are  the   clee   पहाड़ियाँ   ,  Stiperstones and the  long  Mynd  .
wenlock   किनारे  is  another   significant  geographical and geological  लैंडमार्क  .
In the  low-lying  northwest of the  काउंटी  (  और   अतिव्यापी   the   किनारा   साथ   वेल्स   )  is the Fenn  's   ,  Whixall  और  Bettisfield Mosses National Nature Reserve ,  एक  of the  सबसे   महत्वपूर्ण  and  बेहतरीन  preserved  bogs   in  Britain  .
The River Severn  ,  Great  ब्रिटेन  's  longest  river , runs through the  काउंटी   ,  exiting  into  Worcestershire via the Severn Valley  .
Shropshire is landlocked  ,   और   साथ  an  क्षेत्रफल   of   ,  is  इंग्लैण्ड  's largest inland  काउंटी   .
The  काउंटी   पुष्प  is the round-leaved sundew .
For Eurostat purposes  ,   the  county ( less the  एकात्मक  district of  telford  and Wrekin  )  is a  nuts  3 region ( code  ukg22   )  .
The two  shropshire  unitary  क्षेत्रों  (  covering  all of the  ceremonial   काउंटी   )  , together  साथ  the  अधिकारियों   covering  the  ceremonial  county  of   staffordshire  ,  comprise   the  ``  shropshire   और  Staffordshire ''  nuts  2 region  .
the  Big Bang Theory cast at Comic Con  2009  , from left : Kunal Nayyar ,  साइमन  Helberg  ,   kaley  Cuoco , Jim Parsons , and  जॉनी   galecki
the   अमरीकी   sitcom   the  Big  बंग  Theory ,  निर्मित   और  executive produced  by   चक  Lorre  और  Bill  prady  ,  premiered  on  सीबीएस  on  सितंबर  24  ,  2007 .
the  show  centers  on five  वर्ण   :  roommates  शेल्डन   कूपर   और   लियोनार्ड  Hofstadter , two Caltech  physicists  ;  पैनी  ,  a   वेट्रेस   और  aspiring actress  जो   जीवनदान  across the  हॉल  ; and Leonard  और  Sheldon 's  मित्रों   और   co-workers  aerospace  इंजीनियर  Howard  wolowitz   ,   और   astrophysicist  Rajesh Koothrappali  .
over   समय   ,  several  supporting  characters have been promoted to  अभिनीत  roles  :  Leslie Winkle ( season  1   पुनरावर्ती   ;  season  2  regular ; season  3   अतिथि   )   ,  a physicist colleague  ,  and , at different  टाइम्स  , a lover of  दोनो  Leonard and  हावर्ड  ;  bernadette  Rostenkowski-Wolowitz  (   ऋतु   3   पुनरावर्ती  ;  ऋतु  4-present regular  )  , a  microbiologist  , Howard  's  fiancée and subsequent wife , and former part-time waitress  alongside  Penny  ;  neuroscientist Amy Farrah  fowler  ( season  3   अतिथि   ;   ऋतु  4  पुनरावर्ती  ; season 4-present regular  )  ,  जो   joins  the group  बाद  being  matched  to  शेल्डन   on  a dating  जालस्थल   ;  and comic  किताब   store-owner   ,   स्टुअर्ट  Bloom  (  seasons 2–5 recurring ; season  6-present  regular )  ,  who replaces  हावर्ड  as Raj 's  बेहतरीन  friend when Howard is in space .
The show  भी  features  numerous  supporting  वर्ण   ,   प्रत्येक  of  जिसको  plays  a  prominent  भूमिका   in  a small  समूह  of episodes  .
the   a-team  is  an  American action-adventure  टेलीविज़न  series , running  इससे  1983 to 1987 ,  परिचय   a  fictional group of  ex–  United  राज्य  Army Special  शक्तियां   कर्मियों   जो  work  as   सैनिको  of  सौभाग्य  , while on  the  run from the  फौज   बाद  being branded  as   युद्ध   अपराधियों   लिये  a `` crime they did n't commit `` .
A  विशेषता   फिल्मी   आधारित   on  the  श्रेणी  was  released   by   20th  Century  फॉक्स   on  June  11   ,  2010  .
A  कॉमिक   किताब  series  ,  A-Team : Shotgun Wedding  ,  began March 9 ,  2010  .
Diana  प्रिंस   is  a fictional  अक्षर   appearing  regularly in stories published by  dc  Comics .
वो  debuted in  सनसनी   कॉमिक्स  # 1 ( January 1942  )  and  serves  as the  civilian  and  रहस्य  identity of the superhero Wonder  स्त्री  .
The character  थी   निर्मित   by  Charles  moulton  and Harry  G.  Peter .
Wat  phra   kaew   ,  Bangkok  ,   थाईलैंड
वहीँ   is   no   आधिकारिक  state  धर्म   in   the  Thai  संविधान  ,  जिससे  guarantees  धार्मिक  freedom  लिये  all Thai citizens , though  the   किंग  is  जरूरी   by   विधि  to  be  Buddhist .
According  to   the   पिछला  census  (  2000 ) 94.6  %   of  Thais are  बौद्धों  of  the   थेरवाद   परंपरा   .
मुसलमान   हैं   the  second largest religious  समूह  in Thailand at  4.6  % .
थाईलैंड  's southernmost  प्रांतों  -  pattani   ,  Yala ,  narathiwat  and  भाग   of  Songkhla Chumphon have dominant  मुस्लिम  populations  ,  consisting of  दोनो   जातीय   थाई  and Malay .
The  दक्षिणी  tip of  थाईलैंड  is  ज़्यादातर  ethnic Malays .
ईसाइयों   ,  mainly Catholics , represent 0.7 % of  the   जनसांख्यिकी   .
A small but influential community of  सिखों  in Thailand  और   कुछ   हिन्दुओं  also  सजीव   in   the  country 's  शहरों   ,   और  are heavily engaged  in  retail commerce .
There is  भी   a   छोटी  Jewish community  in  Thailand  ,   डेटिंग   वापस  to the  17th  century  .
चूंकि   2001  ,  मुस्लिम   कार्यकर्ताओं  ,  generally  described  by  the  थाई  government as terrorists or separatists , have  rallied  against the  सेंट्रल  government because of alleged  भ्रष्टाचार   और   जातीय  bias  on   the   भाग   of   officials  .
Thailand  's  Department of Religion , currently under the  मंत्रालय  of Culture , is formally responsible  लिये  the  पंजीकरण   of   धार्मिक   समूह  in Thailand URL_http which hold properties  through   legally   स्थापित  foundations  .
It has oversight , along with  the  Immigration Police , over  the  work  permits  of  प्रचारकों  who  हैं   ``  expatriate  धार्मिक   मजदूर  ''  of  all religions  .
a  value added tax ( VAT ) is a  रूप   of  consumption tax .
From  the  perspective of  the  buyer ,  it   is   a   कर  on the  खरीदें  price  .
इससे  that  of  the  विक्रेता   ,  it  is   a  tax only on the value  added  to a  उत्पाद   ,  material  ,   or   सेवा  , from  an  accounting  पाइंट  of  दृश्य  , by this stage of its manufacture or  वितरण  .
the   निर्माता  remits to  the  government the difference between  ये   दो  amounts ,  और  retains the rest  लिये   themselves  to  ऑफसेट  the taxes  वे   था  previously paid on the inputs  .
the  value added to a product by or with  a   कारोबार   is   the   बिक्री  price  चार्ज  to its  ग्राहक  , minus the  लागत  of  सामग्री  and other  taxable  inputs .
A VAT is like  a  sales  कर  in that ultimately only the end consumer is taxed .
It  differs  from  the  sales tax  in  that ,  साथ   the  latter , the tax is  एकत्रित  and remitted  to   the  government only once ,  at  the  पाइंट   of  purchase by  the   समाप्त   उपभोक्ता  .
साथ  the VAT , collections , remittances  to  the  सरकारी  , and credits  लिये   कर  already paid occur each time a business in the supply chain purchases  उत्पाद  .
a   रेफरी   कॉलिंग  a  high-sticking   penaltyhigh
-sticking   is  the name of  दो  infractions in  the   खेल   of  ice  हॉकी   कि   may  occur  जब   a  player intentionally or inadvertently plays  साथ   उसके  or her stick above  the  height of the  कन्धों  or above  the  cross bar of a hockey goal  .
इस   can  result in  a  stoppage of  खेल   or  in  a  penalty  .
in   the  rules  of  the National Hockey  लीग  ,  high-sticking   is  defined  as  a penalty  in  Rule 60 and as a  non-penalty   बेईमानी  in  नियम   80  .
A stoppage in play  परिणाम   if   a  high stick comes  in  contact with the  पक   और  the team  जो  touched  it  regains control  of   the  puck .
However  ,   खेल   प्रायः  continues if a player touches the  पक   साथ  a high stick  और   the   opposing  team  gains  control of the puck .
If the puck goes  into   the   opposing  net after coming into contact with  a  high stick ,  the  goal is  प्रतिबंधित   .
the  level  at  which a  स्टिक   is  considered  too   ऊँची   लिये  a goal  is   the  crossbar of the net .
however  ,  if  a player  knocks  the  पक   into   उसके  own  जाल   साथ  a  ऊँची  stick  ,  the goal  is  allowed  .
A penalty is  assessed  if a  खिलाड़ी  strikes  another  player with a high  स्टिक  .
The player  is  given  a  minor penalty  जबतक  his high stick caused an injury  ,  in which case the referee has the option  to   assess  a  double-minor  , major or  मैच  penalty  .
It  is  the referee 's discretion  जिससे  penalty  to  assess  :   the  rule  काल्स  for  a   दोगुना  minor  लिये  an accidental injury ,  or   a  match penalty for  a  deliberate attempt  to   injure  (  whether  the opposition player was  दरअसल  injured ) .
चोट   is   प्रायः  decided  by  the high  स्टिक   causing   bleeding  , but  the  presence of blood does  नहीं   automatically   औसत  an extra  दंड  is awarded .
Some referees  have   महरूम  known  to   पुरस्कार  an extra penalty  बगैर  the  उपस्थिति   of  blood if  the   रेफरी   determines   कि   the  injury sustained  थी  sufficient  to  warrant a  double-minor   दंड  .
Typical  आधुनिक   मेमोरी  card reader , compatible with many  आम  formats
A  मेमोरी  card reader  is   a  device , typically having a USB interface  ,  for  accessing   the  data on a  मेमोरी  card such as a CompactFlash  (   cf  )  ,  Secure  डिजिटल  (  sd   )   or  MultiMediaCard ( MMC ) .
सबसे  card readers also offer write  काबिलियत  ,  और   साथ  with  the  card  ,  this can  फलन   as  a  कलम   ड्राइव   .
कुछ  printers  और  personal computers have  a  built-in  कार्ड  reader .
a   मल्टी  card  रीडर   is  used for  संचार   साथ  more than  एक   प्रकार  of flash memory  कार्ड  .
Multi  कार्ड   पाठक   do  not  have   built-in  memory  क्षमता  , but are able to  accept   अनेक   प्रकार   और   शैलियाँ   of  memory  ताश   .
The number  of   संगत   मेमोरी   ताश  varies from reader to reader  और   can  include more than  20   अलग  types  .
the   क्रमांक  of different memory  ताश   कि  a multi  कार्ड   रीडर   can   accept  is expressed as  x-in-1   ,   साथ   x  being a  फिगर  of merit indicating the number  of  memory cards accepted ,  ऐसे  as 35-in-1 .
वहीँ   हैं  three categories  of  card readers sorted by the type and quantity  of   the   कार्ड   स्लॉट  : single  कार्ड  reader (  e.g  .  1x   sd-only   )  , multi card reader ( e.g  .  9-in-1  )  and  श्रेणी   कार्ड  reader  (  e.g .  4x  SD only ) .
Some kinds of memory  ताश  with their own USB functions do not  need  the card reader ,  ऐसे  as the Intelligent Stick  मेमोरी   कार्ड  ,  जिससे   can  plug directly into  a  USB  स्लॉट   .
the  USB device  क्लास  used  is  0x08 .
Bullying is detrimental to  विद्यार्थी  ' well-being and development  .
धमकाना  is  the   उपयोग   of   फ़ोर्स   or  coercion  to   गाली  or  intimidate   अन्य  .
the  behavior can be  habitual   और  involve  an   असंतुलन   of   सोशल   or   शारीरिक  power  .
it   can  include verbal  उत्पीड़न  or threat ,  शारीरिक   उत्पीड़न   or  coercion and may  be   निर्देशित  repeatedly towards  particular   पीड़ितों  ,  शायद   on   grounds  of race  ,  religion  ,  gender  ,  sexuality ,  or  ability  .
if  bullying  is  done by a  समूह  , it is called  mobbing  .
the  victim of bullying is sometimes referred to as a  ``  target '' .
Bullying can be defined in many  अलग   तरीके   .
The  uk   फिलहाल   रै  no legal definition of  धमकाना  ,  जबकि   कुछ   u.S.  states  have  laws  विरूद्ध  it  .
धमकाना  consists  of   तीन   मौलिक  types  of  abuse  –  emotional  ,   मौखिक  , and  शारीरिक  .
It typically  involves  subtle  विधि  of coercion  ऐसे  as  intimidation  .
धमकाना  ranges from  सरल  one-on-one bullying to  अधिक  complex bullying in which the bully may have  एक   or  more `` lieutenants ''  जो   may  seem to  be  willing  to   assist  the  प्राथमिक  bully in  उसके  or  उसके  bullying activities .
Bullying  in   स्कूल   और  the workplace is  भी   referred  to as peer abuse .
Robert  W.  Fuller has analyzed bullying in the context  of  rankism  .
A bullying culture  can  develop in  कोई   कॉन्टेक्स्ट   in  which human beings  interact  with each other .
This includes  स्कूल   ,   गिरिजाघर   ,  family ,  the  workplace  ,  home , and neighborhoods  .
प्रसन्न  slapping in the Instituto Regional Federico  errázuriz  , Santa Cruz  ,  Chile
Laura  बुश   और  Rae Leigh  bradbury   (   formerly   लापता   )   on  April 4 , 2007  ,  in  ऑस्टिन   ,  Texas , after the  8-year-old   introduced  Mrs. Bush during announcement  of  the future opening of the  टेक्सास  Regional Office  of  the National Center  लिये   लापता   और   शोषित  Children .
rae  Leigh  थी  the first  चाइल्ड  in  the   u.S.   to  be recovered  as   a  result of  an   एम्बर   चेतावनी  when  वो  was 8  सप्ताह   बूढ़ा  in  नवम्बर  1998 .
an  AMBER Alert or a  चाइल्ड  Abduction  आपात  (  वही  code : CAE  )   is  a  चाइल्ड   abduction  alert system  originating   in  1996  ,   अभी  employed in  9  countries .
AMBER  is   officially   a  backronym for  अमेरिका  's  लापता  :  प्रसारण  Emergency  जवाब  , named for Amber  hagerman  ,  a   9-year-old  abducted  और  murdered in  आर्लिंगटन  , Texas in  1996   .
Alternate regional alert names were once  प्रयुक्त  ; in  जॉर्जिया  , `` Levi 's Call  ''   (  named  बाद  Levi Frady ) ; in  हवाई  ,  ``  Maile Amber Alert ''  (  after Maile  गिल्बर्ट  )  ;  and Arkansas  ,   ``   मॉर्गन   उपनाम   एम्बर  Alert '' ( in  मेमोरी  of  मॉर्गन  Chauntel Nick ) .
AMBER  चेतावनियाँ  are distributed via commercial  रेडियो   स्टेशन  , Internet radio ,  उपग्रह   रेडियो  , television stations , and cable  tv  by the Emergency Alert System  और   noaa  Weather Radio ( where  वे   हैं   termed  `` Child Abduction  आपात   ''  or ``  एम्बर  Alerts '' ) .
the   चेतावनियाँ   हैं   भी  issued via  e-mail   ,  electronic traffic-condition signs ,  the   led   billboards  which  हैं   स्तिथ  outside of  नए   walgreens   स्थितियाँ  , along  साथ  the LED/LCD  लक्षण  of billboard companies such  as   साफ  Channel Outdoor  ,  CBS  बाहरी   और  Lamar ,  or  through wireless device  sms  text  संदेश  .
AMBER Alert has  भी  teamed up  साथ   google  and Facebook to relay  सूचना  regarding an  एम्बर  Alert to  an   कभी  growing demographic .
those   दिलचस्पी  in  subscribing  to receive AMBER  चेतावनियाँ   in  their  क्षेत्रफल  via SMS messages  can   विज़िट  Wireless  एम्बर   चेतावनियाँ  , which  हैं   offered  by  विधि  as  फ़्री  messages .
in  some states , the  प्रदर्शक   scrollboards  in front of  लॉटरी   terminals   हैं  also used  .
The decision to declare  an  AMBER  चेतावनी  is  बना   by  each  पुलिस  organization (  in   अनेक   मामले  ,  the  state police or  राजमार्ग  patrol ) which investigates  प्रत्येक   of   the  abductions .
Public information in an  एम्बर  Alert usually  consists   of  the  नाम   और  description of  the  abductee  ,   a   वर्णन   of   the  suspected  abductor  ,  और  a  वर्णन  and license  थाली   क्रमांक  of the abductor 's  गाडी   ,   if  available .
Monica  samille  Lewinsky (  born  July 23 , 1973  )  is an American woman  साथ  whom  संयुक्त  States President Bill  क्लिंटन  admitted  to  having  था   an   ``  improper  संबंध  '' while she worked at the White  हाउस  in 1995 and 1996 .
the   affair  and  इसके  repercussions ( which  शामिल  Clinton 's impeachment ) became  ज्ञात   as  the Lewinsky scandal  .
House of Night is  a  series of  पिशाच  -themed fantasy  novels  by  अमरीकी   लेखक   P.  C. Cast  और  her  बेटी   kristin   डाल  .
it   फ़ॉलो   the   adventures  of Zoey  redbird  ,  a  sixteen-year-old  लड़की  who has just become  a  `` fledgling vampyre  ''  and  is   जरूरी  to attend  the   हाउस   of   रात्रि   बोर्डिंग  school  in  Tulsa ,  ओक्लाहोमा  .
The series  रै  been on  the   नई   यॉर्क   टाइम्स   बेहतरीन   विक्रेता  list for 63 weeks and there are over seven million  नक़ल   in  print in  उत्तर  America  अलोन   .
the  sixth novel , Tempted ,  जिससे   गई  on  बिक्री  on October  27  , 2009 with  a  first printing  of  a million  नक़ल  ,  डाला   the  USA Today  बेस्टसेलर  list  कि   सप्ताह  at  #   1  .
In January ,  2010  , Gezeichnet , a German  अनुवाद  of Marked , reached the  #  1  स्पॉट  on the Der Spiegel bestseller list  .
The  श्रेणी  has so far  बेची  more  than   टेन  million books in 39  देशों  .
burned  was  released   on   अप्रैल   27   ,   2010  , and like  इम्तिहान   ,  it  डाला  the USA  आज  bestseller list  कि  week at  #  1 .
awakened  , released  in   जनवरी   ,   2011   ,   भी  entered the list  at   #  1 .
the  series , which is  प्रकाशित  by St  मार्टिन  's Press is planned  to  include  बारह  books  .
In 2008 ,  योजनाएँ   लिये   a  film adaptation  यहूद  also announced  .
The tenth book in the  श्रेणी   ,  Hidden , was  released  on October 16 ,  2012   .
the  second book  in   the  novellas  (  which give  पृष्ठभूमि  on  supporting   वर्ण   )   ,  Lenobia 's  प्रण   ,   थी   released  January 31 , 2012  .
किताब   ग्यारह   is   फिलहाल   पुकारा   नाज़िल  , and  the  Casts  have  announced  कि   दो   अधिक   novellas  ,  neferet’s   अभिशाप  ,  नियोजित   to   be   released  February 19  ,  2013 , and  a   प्रीक्वेल   अनोखा   परिचय  Kalona , are to be released to coincide  साथ   the  eleventh and  बारहवीं  books .
in  Greek  mythology   ,   the  Trojan War  थी  waged against the city  of  Troy by  the   achaeans   (   यूनानियों  ) after Paris of Troy  took  Helen from her husband  menelaus  king  of   स्पार्टा   .
the   युद्ध   is   एक   of  the  सबसे  important events in  यूनानी   mythology   और  has  महरूम   narrated  through  अनेक  works  of  Greek  साहित्य  ,  सबसे  notably through Homer 's Iliad  और   the   ओडिसी  .
The Iliad relates a  भाग  of  the  last year  of   the   घेरा   of  Troy ;  the  Odyssey describes  odysseus  's journey home .
Other parts of the  युद्ध   हैं  contained  in   a  cycle  of  epic poems  ,   जिससे  have  बच   through  fragments .
एपीसोड  from the war  provided   सामग्री  for Greek tragedy  और   अन्य   works  of Greek literature , and  लिये   रोमन  poets including Virgil  और  Ovid .
the   युद्ध   originated  from a  झगड़ा   between  the  देवियाँ   एथेना  , Hera ,  और  Aphrodite  ,  after Eris  ,  the  देवी  of  संघर्ष   और  discord  ,   दिया   उन्हें   a   सुनहरी   ठहराना   ,  sometimes known  as   the  Apple of  अनबन   ,   चिह्नित  ``  लिये  the  fairest   ''  .
Zeus sent  the  goddesses  to   पेरिस  , who judged  कि   aphrodite  , as the ``  fairest  '' , should receive  the  apple .
In exchange ,  aphrodite   बना   हेलेन   ,   the  most beautiful  of  all  महिलाओं  and  बीवी  of  menelaus  , fall in love with Paris ,  जो  took her  to  Troy .
Agamemnon ,  किंग  of  mycenae  and  the   bhai   of  Helen  's   husband  Menelaus ,  led   an  expedition of Achaean troops  to   ट्रॉय   और  besieged the city  लिये  ten years because  of  Paris '  बेइज्जती   .
बाद  the deaths of many  नायक  ,  सहित   the  Achaeans Achilles  और   अजाक्स  , and  the  Trojans Hector and Paris , the  नगर  fell to the ruse of the  trojan  Horse .
The  achaeans  slaughtered  the  Trojans  (   मगर   लिये  some  of   the   महिलाओं   और  children  जिसको   वे   रखा  or sold  as  slaves )  और   desecrated  the  मंदिरों  , thus earning the  देवताओं   '   प्रकोप   .
few   of  the  achaeans  returned safely  to  their  घरों  and  अनेक  founded colonies  in   दूर  shores .
the  Romans  बाद  traced their origin to  aeneas  , one of the  ट्रोजन्स  ,  जो   थी  said to have led the surviving Trojans to  modern-day  Italy .
The ancient Greeks thought that the Trojan War was a  ऐतिहासिक  event that had  लिया  place in the 13th or 12th  सदी  BC  ,  and  believed   कि  Troy  थी  located in modern-day Turkey  निकट  the Dardanelles .
By  आधुनिक  times , both  the  war and the  नगर   यहूद  widely  believed  to  be  non-historical .
In 1868 , however  ,  the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann  मिले   फ़्रैंक  Calvert  ,  who convinced  schliemann   कि  Troy  थी  at  hissarlik  and  schliemann  took  over  Calvert  's  excavations on property  belonging  to Calvert  ;   इस  claim is  अभी  accepted by  सबसे  scholars  .
whether  there  is  any  ऐतिहासिक   वास्तविकता  behind the  trojan  War is  an   खोलें   सवाल   .
अनेक  scholars  मानना  that  वहीँ  is a  ऐतिहासिक  core  to   the  tale ,  हालांकि   इस   may  simply  औसत  that the  homeric   कहानियां   हैं  a fusion  of  various  किस्से   of   sieges   और   रिझाने   by  Mycenaean  यूनानियों   दौरान  the Bronze Age .
Those  जो   मानना   कि  the stories  of  the Trojan War are  निकला  from a  विशिष्ट   ऐतिहासिक  conflict usually date it to the 12th  or   11th  centuries  bc  ,  प्रायः  preferring  the  dates given  by  Eratosthenes , 1194–1184 BC  ,   जिससे   roughly   corresponds   साथ   पुरातत्व   प्रमाण   of  a  अनर्थकारी   burning   of   ट्रॉय  VIIa .
Anarchists have employed  निश्चित   प्रतीकों  for their  कारण  , including  सबसे   prominently  the  circle-a  and  the   ब्लैक   ध्वज  , although  anarchists  have historically  largely  denied  the  importance of symbols to political  गति  .
चूंकि  the revival of anarchism around the start of  the  21st-century  संयुक्त  with the rise  of   the   anti-globalization   गति   ,  anarchist cultural symbols  हैं  widely  उपस्थित  .
the  greater palatine canal (  or  pterygopalatine  कनाल   )   is  a  ड्योढ़ी  in  the  skull  कि  transmits the greater  palatine   धमनी  , vein ,  और  nerve  between   the   pterygopalatine  fossa and the oral cavity  .
Surface temperature of Antarctica in winter and  गर्मियाँ   इससे  the European Centre  लिये   medium-range  Weather  forecasts
The climate  of   अंटार्कटिक  is the coldest on the whole of Earth  .
Antarctica  रै  the  न्यूनतम  naturally occurring temperature  कभी   अंकित  on  the  ground on Earth  :  −89.2 °C  (  −128.6  °f  ) at Vostok Station .
It  is  also extremely dry  (   technically  a  मरुस्थल   )  ,  averaging   166  mm (  6.5  in  )   of   वर्षण  per  साल   .
भी   so  , on most parts of  the   महाद्वीप  the  हिम  rarely melts  और   is   आखिरकार  compressed to  become  the glacial ice that  makes  up the  बर्फ   चादर  .
Weather fronts rarely penetrate  दूर  into  the   महाद्वीप  .
Most of  अंटार्कटिक   रै   an  ice  कैप   जलवायु  ( Köppen  ef  ) with very cold , generally  अत्यधिक  dry weather throughout  the   साल  and no month  averaging  above 0 °C ( 32  °f  )  .
Some fringe coastal  क्षेत्रों   have   a   टुण्ड्रा   जलवायु   (  Köppen  et  ) with a  छोटी   गर्मियाँ   averaging  above freezing  ,  and  much  higher  वर्षण   .
Current  सिर  coach  माइक  Tomlin  ,   दौरान   the  2007  ऋतु
the  Pittsburgh  स्टीलर्स   मताधिकार  has had  16  head  कोच  throughout its  इतिहास  .
संस्थापित  as the Pittsburgh Pirates  in  , the  नाम  was changed  to  the Steelers prior  to  the  ऋतु   to  celebrate the city 's heritage  of  producing  स्टील  .
जो  Bach  परोसा   दो  separate  शर्तें  as head coach  और  Walt Kiesling  परोसा  three separate  शर्तें  .
दौरान  the and  सीज़न  ,  due  to  the   राशि  of players who  लड़ा  in  संसार   युद्ध   ii  , the Steelers combined their team with Philadelphia  और  Chicago ,  क्रमशः  .
During  ये  seasons , Steelers  '  coach Walt Kiesling  साझा  coaching  कर्तव्य   साथ  Greasy  neale   और  Phil Handler ,  जो  have not been included within  इस   सूची  .
Struggling  लिये  much of  the  franchise 's early years , the  टोली  's  पहला  season with more  विन्स   than  losses was coached by Jock Sutherland in .
In  ,  under Sutherland  ,  the Steelers  निभाई  their first playoff  खेल   विरूद्ध  the Philadelphia Eagles  .
Ten of the  16   सिर   कोच   खर्च  their entire professional coaching careers  साथ  the franchise , including  जॉन   mcnally  , Walt Kiesling and  चक  Noll , who  have   भी  been voted into the Pro  फ़ुटबॉल  Hall of Fame  .
एक   of   तभी  four men  to  coach  the  same team  लिये   23   सालो   ,  Chuck Noll retired in .
noll  is  भी   the  only coach in  नेशनल  Football  लीग  history  to   जीत  four Super Bowls  .
विधेयक   cowher   ,  Noll 's replacement ,  coached   the   स्टीलर्स  to  उनके  fifth  सुपर  Bowl  विजय   ,   in   2005   .
The Steelers  छठे  Super Bowl win came in Super Bowl XLIII , while head coached  by   माइक  Tomlin ,  the   टोली  's  वर्तमान  head  कोच  .
In  दण्ड  law , fraud is  जानबूझकर   deception  made  लिये   निजी   लाभ  or to damage another individual  ;   the   सम्बन्धित   क्रियाशील  is fraudulent  ,  and verb  is   defraud   .
Fraud  is   a   अपराधों   और  a  सिविल   विधि  violation , though the specific criminal law  परिभाषा  varies by legal jurisdiction .
defrauding  people  or   entities  of money or valuables is a common  purpose   of  fraud  .
A  hoax  also involves deception , but  बगैर  the intention of gain or  of   damaging  or depriving  the  victim  .
Fraud is a  रक्षा  in a  सिविल  action for breach of contract  or   विशिष्ट   प्रदर्शन   of   a  contract  .
Fraud  is   a  basis for equitable jurisdiction .
Passover , or Pesach ( from : in Hebrew , Yiddish  )  , Tiberian :  ,  Modern Hebrew  :  /ˈpesaχ/ Pesah , Pesakh  ,   यहूदी  : Peysekh  ,  Paysakh , Paysokh )  is  an important Biblically -derived  यहूदी  festival .
historically  , together  साथ   shavuot   (  `` Pentecost ''  )   और  Sukkot ( ``  झोपड़ियों  '' )  ,   passover  is one of the three  यात्राएं  festivals  (  Shalosh Regalim ) during  जिससे  the entire  जनसांख्यिकी  of the  किंगडम  of  यहूदा   बना   a   यात्राएं  to the  टेम्पल  in  जेरूसलम  .
samaritans   स्टिल  make  इस  pilgrimage  to  Mount Gerizim  ,  but only men participate in  पब्लिक  worship .
passover  commences on  the   15th  of the Hebrew  माह  of Nisan and  lasts   लिये   either  seven days  (  in  इसराईल   )  or eight days (  in   the  diaspora  )  .
In Judaism ,  a  day  commences   at   संध्या  and lasts  जबतक  the  following   संध्या  , thus the  पहला  day of Passover only begins after  संध्या   of   the  14th of Nisan and ends  at  dusk of the 15th  दिन   of  the  माह  of Nisan  .
the   संस्कार   अद्वितीय   to   the  Passover celebrations  commence  with the Passover  seder  when  the   15th   of  Nisan has begun .
In  the   उत्तरी  Hemisphere Passover  takes  place in spring as the  तोरा  prescribes it : `` in the month of [ the ] spring ''  (  בחדש  האביב   )   .
It  is  one of the most widely  observed  Jewish  छुट्टियाँ   .
The  यहूदी   लोगों   celebrate  Passover  as  a  commemoration  of their  मुक्ति   over  3,300 years  पहले  by God  इससे  slavery in ancient  मिश्र  that  थी  ruled by  the   pharaohs   ,   और   उनके  birth as  a  nation  अंतर्गत   the   नेतृत्व   of  Moses .
It  commemorates   the   स्टोरी  of the Exodus  as  described  in  the Hebrew  बाइबल   विशेषकर  in  the  Book of Exodus  ,  in which the Israelites were freed from slavery in Egypt  .
In the  कथा  of  the   exodus   ,   the   बाइबल  tells  कि  God  helped   the  Children of Israel escape  इससे  their slavery in  मिश्र  by inflicting ten plagues upon the ancient  उन्होंने   पहले  the Pharaoh would  रिलीज   उसके   israelite   स्लेव  ; the tenth and worst of the  plagues   थी  the death of the  मिश्र   first-born  .
the  Israelites  यहूद  instructed to  चिह्नित  the  doorposts  of their homes  साथ   the   रक्त   of  a  slaughtered   वसन्त   मेमने  and  ,  upon seeing this  ,  the spirit of  the  Lord knew to pass over  the   first-born  in these homes  ,  hence the name  of   the  holiday .
There  is   कुछ  debate over where  the  term  is   दरअसल  derived from  .
When  the  Pharaoh freed  the  Israelites , it is  कहा  that  वे   बाएँ   in   ऐसे  a hurry  कि  they could not wait for bread dough  to  rise  (  leaven ) .
in  commemoration , for the duration of  passover  no leavened  ब्रैड  is eaten , for which  कारण   it  is called `` The  पर्व   of  the Unleavened Bread '' .
Thus  matzo  (  चपटा  unleavened bread ) is  खाया  during  passover  and  it   is   a   प्रतीक   of  the  अवकाश  .
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley (  or  ) , officially designated  1p/halley   ,   is  the  best-known   of  the  short-period  comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76  सालो   .
Halley is the only short-period  धूमकेतु  that  is  clearly visible to  the  naked eye from Earth , and  यूँ  the only naked-eye comet that might appear  twice   in   a   इंसान  lifetime  .
Other naked-eye comets may  be   उज्जवल  and more  spectacular   ,  but will  appear   तभी   एकबार   in  thousands  of  years  .
हैली   's  returns  to   the  inner Solar System have been  observed  and recorded  by  astronomers since at least  240  BCE  .
साफ  records  of   the   धूमकेतु   's  appearances were made by  चाइनीज  , Babylonian ,  और  medieval European chroniclers  ,   लकिन  were not recognized as reappearances of the same object  at   the  time .
The comet 's periodicity  थी  first determined  in  1705 by English  astronomer  Edmond Halley , after whom it is now named  .
Halley 's Comet  पिछला  appeared in  the   भीतरी   सौर  System in 1986 and will  अगला  appear  in  mid-2061 .
दौरान   इसके  1986 apparition  ,  Halley  became  the first comet to be observed in  विवरण  by  spacecraft   ,   providing  the  पहला  observational  आंकड़ा  on the structure of a comet  केंद्रक   और  the  यांत्रिकी  of  कोमा  and  टेल  formation .
ये   observations  supported a  क्रमांक  of longstanding hypotheses about  धूमकेतु  construction , particularly Fred Whipple 's `` dirty snowball ''  मॉडल  , which  correctly  predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices  –  such as water  ,   कार्बन  dioxide and  अमोनिया   –  and dust .
The missions also  provided   आंकड़ा   जिससे   substantially  reformed and  reconfigured  these  विचार   ;   लिये  instance  it  is now  समझा   कि  Halley  's  surface  is   largely   रचित   of   dusty   ,  non-volatile materials , and  कि   तभी  a small  portion  of  it   is   icy   .
anti-communism   is  opposition  to  communism .
Organized anti-communism  विकसित   in   प्रतिक्रिया  to  the  rise of communism ,  विशेषकर   बाद  the 1917 October Revolution  in  Russia  और   reaching   वैश्विक   आयाम   दौरान  the Cold War .
सबसे   anti-communists   अस्वीकृत   the  concept of historical  भौतिकवाद  ,  जिससे  is a central idea in Marxism  .
Anti-communists reject  the  Marxist  विश्वास  that capitalism will be followed by socialism and  साम्यवादी  ,  बस  as feudalism  थी  followed by capitalism  .
Anti-communists question the validity of the Marxist claim  कि  the socialist state  होगा   ``  wither  दूर  '' when  it  becomes  अनावश्यक  in a true  कम्युनिस्ट   समाज   .
anti-communists  argue that the repression  in  the early  सालो  of  bolshevik   नियम   ,  while not  as  extreme as that during  जोसेफ  Stalin 's  नियम  , was still  कठोर  by  उचित   मानकों  ,  citing   उदाहरण  such  as  Felix Dzerzhinsky  's   रहस्य  police ,  जिससे  eliminated numerous political  प्रतिद्वंद्वियों  by extrajudicial executions , and  the   क्रूर  crushing of the Kronstadt  विद्रोह  and Tambov rebellion  .
कुछ   anti-communists  refer to  दोनो  Communism and fascism  as  totalitarianism , seeing similarity  between  the actions of communist and fascist  सरकारें   .
इतिहासकार  Robert Conquest has argued that Communism  थी  responsible for tens of millions of  मौतों  during the 20th  सदी  .
Opponents argue that  कम्युनिस्ट   पार्टियों  that have  आइये  to  शक्ति   have  tended to  be   rigidly  intolerant of political opposition  .
These  प्रतिद्वंद्वियों  claim that  सबसे   कम्युनिस्ट  countries have shown  no   लक्षण   of   advancing  from Marx 's socialist  स्टेज  of economy  to   an   आदर्श   कम्युनिस्ट   स्टेज  .
Rather , Communist  सरकारें  have been  अभियुक्त  of creating a  नई   सत्ताधारी  class ( a Nomenklatura  )  ,  साथ   शक्तियां  and  privileges  greater than those previously  enjoyed  by the upper  वर्ग  in the  non-   कम्युनिस्ट  regimes  .
Gil Heron (  9  April 1922  –   27  November  2008  )  थी  a Jamaican professional footballer  .
He was the  पहला   ब्लैक   खिलाड़ी  to play for Scottish  क्लबों  Celtic  ,   और  was the father of  कवि  and  संगीतकार   gil  Scott-Heron  .
He died  in  Detroit of a  दिल   आक्रमण   on   27  November 2008  .
the   सोयाबीन   (  US ) or soya  सेम  (  uk  )  (  Glycine max ) is a species  of  legume  देशी   to  East Asia ,  widely   grown  for its  खाद्य  bean which  रै   numerous  uses .
The plant  is   classed  as an  oilseed  rather than a pulse by the UN  खाना  and Agricultural  संगठन   (  FAO  )   .
Fat-free  (   defatted  )  सोयाबीन  meal  is   a  significant  और   सस्ती  source  of  protein  लिये  animal feeds and  अनेक  prepackaged meals  ;  soy vegetable oil is  another   उत्पाद  of  प्रसंस्करण  the soybean crop  .
For  उदाहरण  ,  सोयाबीन  products such  as   textured  vegetable protein (  tvp  ) are  संघटक   in  many  मांस  and  दुग्ध  analogues .
Soybeans  उपज  significantly more protein per  एकड़  than  सबसे   अन्य  uses of land  .
परंपरागत   nonfermented   खाना  uses of  soybeans  include soy  मिल्क   ,  and from  the   latter   टोफू   और  tofu  स्किन   .
fermented  foods include soy sauce , fermented bean  paste   ,  natto , and tempeh  ,  among others .
the   आयल  is used  in   अनेक   औद्योगिक   अनुप्रयोग  .
The main producers of  सोया  are the United  राज्य  (  35   %  ) ,  ब्राज़ील  ( 27  %  ) ,  अर्जेंटीना   (   19  %  )   ,   चीन  ( 6  %  ) and  इण्डिया  ( 4 % ) .
The beans contain significant amounts of phytic acid , alpha-linolenic acid  ,  and isoflavones .
Harrison Ford (  born   जुलाई   13   ,  1942 ) is an American film actor  और  producer .
he  is  प्रसिद्ध  for his  प्रदर्शन  as Han  सोलो   in  the  असली  Star Wars trilogy  और  the title  अक्षर  of  the   इंडियाना   जोन्स  film series  .
Ford is also  ज्ञात   लिये   उसके  roles as Rick Deckard in Blade Runner  ,  John Book in  गवाह  and Jack  रयान  in  patriot   खेल   और  Clear and  उपस्थित  Danger  .
His  करियर   रै   spanned  six  दशकों   और  includes roles in several Hollywood  blockbusters  ,  सहित  Presumed Innocent , The  भगोड़े   ,   एयर  Force  एक  , and  कया   झूठ   beneath   .
at   एक   पाइंट  , four of the  शीर्ष   छह  box-office  हिट्स   of  all time included one of his roles  .
Five of his  films  have been  inducted   into  the National  फिल्मी  Registry .
In 1997 , Ford was  क्रमित  No .  1  in Empire `` The Top  100  Movie Stars of All  समय   ''   सूची   .
, the United States  घरेलू  box  दफ्तर  grosses of Ford 's films total  over   us  $ 3.5 billion , with worldwide  grosses   surpassing   $  6 billion ,  बनाना   घाट   the  third  उच्चतम   grossing  U.S. domestic box-office star  .
Ford is  the  husband of  अभिनेत्री  Calista Flockhart  .
A tube of ChapStick
ChapStick is  a   ब्रांड  name for lip  बाम  manufactured by Pfizer  उपभोक्ता  Healthcare and used in  अनेक  countries worldwide  .
It is intended  to  help treat and prevent chapped lips  ;   hence  the  नाम  .
अनेक  varieties also  शामिल  sunscreen  in  order to  prevent  sunburn .
Due to  इसके   लोकप्रियता   ,  the term  रै   become  a  genericized  trademark .
It popularly  refers   to  any  लिप   बाम   contained  in  a  lipstick-style tube and  लागू   in  the  वही  manner  as  lipstick  .
However  ,  the term  is  still a registered  ट्रेडमार्क  , with rights  exclusively  owned by  फाइजर  .
In Sweden and  in   the  United Kingdom , the  उत्पाद   's   प्रमुख  competitor  is   lypsyl  ,  बना  by Novartis Consumer Health  ,  which is  वितरित  in similar packaging to ChapStick .
जार्ज  Berkeley ( ;  12  March 168514  जनवरी  1753 )  ,  also known as Bishop  बर्कली  ( Bishop of Cloyne ) ,  थी  an Anglo-Irish  पारस  whose  प्राथमिक  achievement was the  उन्नति   of  a  सिद्धान्त  he called  ``   immaterialism  ''  (   बाद  referred to as  ``  subjective  आदर्शवाद  ``  by   अन्य  ) .
This theory denies the existence of material  पदार्थ  and instead  contends  that  परिचित  objects  जैसे   टेबल  and chairs  हैं   तभी  ideas in the minds  of   perceivers  , and as  a   परिणाम   can  not  मौजूद   बगैर  being  आभास   .
Thus , as Berkeley famously put  it   ,  for physical  वस्तुएँ  `` esse est percipi  ''  ( `` to be is  to  be perceived  ``  )  .
Berkeley is  भी  known for  उसके  critique of abstraction  ,  an  महत्वपूर्ण  premise in  उसके  argument  लिये   immaterialism   .
in  1709  ,   बर्कली   प्रकाशित   उसके   पहला  major work  ,  , in  जिससे  he  discussed  the  सीमाएं   of  human vision  और  advanced the theory that the proper  वस्तुएँ  of  sight  are  नहीं  material objects , but light and colour  .
This foreshadowed  उसके   मुख्य   philosophical  work  a  Treatise Concerning the Principles  of  Human Knowledge  in  1710 which , after  इसके   ग़रीब   रिसेप्शन   ,   he   rewrote  in  संवाद  form  और   प्रकाशित   अंतर्गत  the title  तीन  Dialogues  between  Hylas  और   philonous   in  1713  .
In this book , Berkeley 's views  यहूद   represented  by  philonous  (  यूनानी   :  'lover  of  mind  '  )  ,   जबकि  Hylas ( Greek :  'मैटr  '  )  embodies the  आयरिश   thinker’s  opponents  ,  in  particular  John  locke   .
Berkeley argued  विरूद्ध   सर   इसहाक़  Newton  's   doctrine  of absolute space ,  समय  and motion in De  मोटू   (   on   गति   )   ,   प्रकाशित  1721 .
His arguments were a  precursor  to the views  of  Mach and  आइंस्टीन  .
in  1732  ,  he published  alciphron  , a Christian apologetic  विरूद्ध   the  free-thinkers  ,   और  in  1734  , he  प्रकाशित   the  Analyst , an  empiricist  critique of  the  foundations of infinitesimal calculus ,  जिससे  was influential in the development  of   गणित  .
His  पिछला   प्रमुख  philosophical work , Siris (  1744  ) ,  begins  by advocating the  औषधीय   उपयोग   of  tar water , and  तब   continues  to discuss  a  wide range of topics including  विज्ञान   ,  philosophy ,  और  theology .
ब्याज   in   बर्कली  's  कार्य  increased  बाद   संसार  War  ii  , because he tackled  अनेक   of   the  issues of paramount  ब्याज   to  philosophy  in   the   20th  century such  as  the  समस्याएं  of perception ,  the  difference between primary  और   द्वितीयक  qualities , and the importance  of  language .
चिंगदाओ   (  )  ,  historically  ज्ञात  as  tsingtao   ,   is  a  प्रमुख  city in eastern  शानदोंग  province  ,   पूर्वी  China ,  साथ   a  population of over  8.715  million ( 2010 census ) .
Its built up area , made  of  6 urban districts and  4  county-level  शहरों   ,   is   घर  to about  4,896,000  inhabitants  in  2010  .
It borders Yantai  to  the  पूर्वोत्तर  ,  weifang  to  the  west and  rizhao  to the southwest .
qīng   (   )  in  चाइनीज  means `` green '' or `` lush '' , while  dǎo  ( )  अर्थात्   ``   द्वीप  '' .
Qingdao is administered at  the  sub-provincial level  .
lying  across  the  Shandong  प्रायद्वीप   जबकि  looking  आउट  to the  पीला  Sea , Qingdao  is   a  major  seaport   ,  naval base  ,   और   औद्योगिक  centre .
It is also  the   साईट  of  the   tsingtao  Brewery .
the   संसार  's longest  समुद्र  bridge  ,   the   चिंगदाओ   haiwan  Bridge  ,  links the main urban  क्षेत्रफल   of   चिंगदाओ  with Huangdao  ज़िला  , straddling the Jiaozhou Bay  समुद्र   क्षेत्रों   .
Qingdao is  नामित  China 's most livable  नगर   .
Mimivirus  is  a viral  genus   containing   a  single identified  प्रजाति  named Acanthamoeba  polyphaga  mimivirus (  apmv   )  , or is a group of phylogenetically  सम्बन्धित  large  वाइरस  ( designated usually MimiN ) .
in  colloquial speech ,  apmv  is more  commonly   referred   to  as just `` mimivirus  ''  .
Until October  2011  , when  a  larger virus Megavirus chilensis was  वर्णित   ,   it   था   the  largest capsid  व्यास  of  सब  known viruses  .
Mimivirus has  a   विशाल  and  जटिल   genome   compared   साथ   सबसे   अन्य   वाइरस  .
Mimivirus , short for  ``   mimicking  microbe  ''  ,  is  so called to  प्रतिबिंबित  its large size and  apparent  Gram-staining properties .
The Mexican  युद्ध   of   स्वतंत्रता  (  1810–1821  )  थी   an  armed  विरोध  between  the  people  of  Mexico  और   the  Spanish colonial  अधिकारियों  which started on September 16 , 1810  .
the   गति   ,  which  became   ज्ञात   as  the Mexican War  of  Independence , was led by Mexican-born Spaniards  ,   mestizos   और  Amerindians who sought  स्वतंत्रता  from Spain .
It started as an  आदर्शवादी   peasants  '  विद्रोह  against their colonial  मास्टर्स  ,  लकिन  ended  as  an  असंभावित   गठबंधन  between Mexican  ex-royalists  and Mexican guerrilla insurgents .
crohn  's disease  ,  also  ज्ञात  as Crohn syndrome and regional enteritis , is  a  type of inflammatory  bowel   बीमारी   कि  may affect any part of  the  gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus ,  causing   a  wide  किस्में  of  लक्षण  .
it  primarily causes abdominal pain  ,   अतिसार   (  which may  be  bloody  if  inflammation  is  at  इसके   worst  ) ,  उल्टी  ( can  be  continuous ) ,  or  weight loss ,  लकिन   may   भी  cause  जटिलताओं   बाहर  the gastrointestinal tract  ऐसे  as  स्किन  rashes  ,  arthritis , inflammation  of  the eye  ,   थकान   ,   और  lack of  विशेषज्ञता  .
Crohn 's  बीमारी   is  caused by interactions between  पर्यावरणीय   ,  immunological and bacterial factors  in  genetically  susceptible  individuals  .
This results  in  a chronic  जलन   विकार   ,   in  which the body  's  immune system attacks the  जठरांत्र  tract possibly directed at  सूक्ष्मजैविक  antigens  .
Crohn  's   बीमारी   रै   wrongly  been  वर्णित  as  an  autoimmune disease in the  पास्ट  ;  हाल  investigators  have   वर्णित  it  as   an   प्रतिरक्षा   कमियां  state .
There is a genetic  संघ   साथ  Crohn  's   बीमारी   ,   primarily  with variations  of  the  nod2  gene  और  its protein  ,  which  होश   बैक्टीरियल  cell walls .
सहोदर  of affected individuals are  at   उच्चतर  risk  .
males  and females are equally affected  .
smokers  are two  टाइम्स  more  संभावित   to  develop Crohn 's  बीमारी   than  nonsmokers  .
Crohn  's  disease  affects   between  400,000  और  600,000 people in  उत्तर  America .
व्यापकता   estimates  for Northern Europe  have  ranged from 27–48 per  100,000  .
Crohn 's disease tends to  उपस्थित  initially in the teens and twenties  ,  with another  शिखर  incidence in  the  fifties to  seventies   ,  although the  बीमारी   can   occur   at   कोई  age .
There is  no  known  फार्मास्युटिकल  or surgical cure  लिये  Crohn  's  disease .
उपचार  options  हैं  restricted to controlling  लक्षण   ,  maintaining remission  ,   और  preventing relapse  .
The disease was named  बाद   gastroenterologist   burrill  Bernard Crohn , who  ,   in  1932  ,  together  साथ   दो  other colleagues at  माउंट   sinai  Hospital  in   नई  York , described a series of patients with inflammation of  the   टर्मिनल  ileum  ,  the  क्षेत्रफल  most commonly  प्रभावित   by  the illness  .
This is an  अधूरी  list  of  the  tallest  buildings and structures  by  country .
the  list directly  शामिल  the tallest buildings  और  structures  लिये   प्रत्येक  country  ,  and  जहाँ   उचित   ,  it also points to more detailed country-specific lists .
अशिष्ट   और   तैयार  is a census-designated  प्लेस   in   नेवाडा   काउंटी   ,   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , United States  .
It is  स्तिथ  west of Grass  घाटी   ,  California , approximately  62  miles  (   100  km  )   इससे   sacramento  .
The population was 963  at   the  2010 census .
YouTube is a video-sharing  जालस्थल  ,  निर्मित  by  तीन   पूर्व  PayPal employees in February 2005  ,   on  which users can  अपलोड   ,   दृश्य  and share  वीडियो   .
The  कम्पनी  is based  in  San Bruno ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ,  and uses  adobe   फ्लैश   वीडियो  and  html5  technology  to   प्रदर्शक  a wide variety of  user-generated   वीडियो  content  ,   सहित  movie  क्लिप्स  , TV clips ,  और  music videos  ,  as well as amateur  सामग्री  such as video blogging  ,   छोटी  original videos  ,   और  educational  वीडियो   .
Most of  the   सामग्री  on YouTube  रै  been uploaded by individuals  ,   हालांकि  media corporations including  सीबीएस  , the BBC  ,  Vevo , Hulu ,  और   अन्य   संगठन  offer some of  उनके   सामग्री  via the site , as  भाग   of  the  youtube  partnership  कार्यक्रम   .
Unregistered  उपयोक्ता  can watch  वीडियो  , while  पंजीकृत  users  can   अपलोड  an unlimited number of videos .
वीडियो  considered to contain potentially offensive content are  उपलब्धियाँ  only  to  registered  उपयोक्ता   at   तनिक  18 years  बूढ़ा  .
In  नवम्बर   2006  ,  youtube  , LLC was  खरीदा  by  google   लिये   us  $ 1.65 billion ,  और  operates  as  a  subsidiary   of   google   .
Sister  अधिनियम  is a musical  लिखा  by Cheri Steinkellner and Bill  steinkellner  with additional  किताब   सामग्री  by Douglas Carter  beane  ,  साथ   गीत  by  ग्लेन   स्लेटर   और  music  by  Alan Menken  .
it  is  आधारित   on   the  hit  1992  film comedy of the same name  .
the   2009  West  समाप्त   उत्पादन   थी   उत्पादित  by Stage  entertainment  ,  whoopi  Goldberg , and Michael Reno for Sis  अधिनियमों   llc   .
Goldberg is  भी  a  निर्माता   of  the 2011  ब्रॉडवे  adaptation .
Microsoft DirectX is  a   संग्रहण  of application  प्रोग्रामिंग   अंतरफलक  ( APIs  )  for handling tasks  सम्बन्धित   to  multimedia ,  विशेषकर  game  प्रोग्रामिंग   और  video , on  microsoft  platforms .
originally  ,  the  names of these  api   सब  began with  सीधा  , such  as   direct3d   ,  DirectDraw ,  directmusic   ,  DirectPlay , DirectSound ,  और   so  forth  .
the  name  डाइरेक्टएक्स  was coined as  आशुलिपि  term  लिये  all of these  api  ( the  x  standing in for  the  particular API names ) and soon  became  the  नाम   of  the  संग्रहण   .
When Microsoft later set out to develop  a   गेमिंग   कंसोल  , the  x  was  प्रयुक्त  as  the  basis of the  नाम   एक्सबॉक्स  to indicate that the  कंसोल   थी  based  on   डाइरेक्टएक्स  technology  .
The  x  initial has been carried  आगे  in the  नामकरण  of APIs  designed   लिये  the  एक्सबॉक्स  such  as   xinput  and  the  Cross-platform Audio Creation  औजार   (  XACT )  ,  while  the  DirectX pattern  रै   महरूम   जारी  for Windows APIs such as Direct2D  और   directwrite   .
direct3d   (   the  3D  ग्राफिक्स   api  within  डाइरेक्टएक्स   )   is  widely used  in  the development  of  video  खेल   लिये  Microsoft Windows  ,  Microsoft  एक्सबॉक्स   ,  Microsoft Xbox 360 and  कुछ   sega  Dreamcast games .
direct3d  is  भी   प्रयुक्त   by  other software  अनुप्रयोग  for visualization  और  graphics tasks such as CAD/CAM engineering .
As  direct3d   is   the  most widely  publicized  component  of   डाइरेक्टएक्स  ,  it  is  आम  to  देखिए  the names  ``   डाइरेक्टएक्स  '' and `` Direct3D '' used interchangeably  .
The  डाइरेक्टएक्स  software  विकास  kit ( SDK ) consists  of   runtime  libraries  in  redistributable binary form  ,  along with accompanying documentation and headers for use in coding  .
originally   ,   the  runtimes  यहूद   तभी   संस्थापित   by   खेल   or  explicitly by the user .
खिड़कियाँ   95   किया   नहीं  launch with DirectX  ,   लकिन  DirectX was included with  खिड़कियाँ   95   oem  Service  रिलीज   2   .
Windows  98  and Windows  nt   4.0  both shipped  साथ  DirectX ,  as  has every version  of  Windows released since  .
The  sdk  is  उपलब्धियाँ  as a free download  .
While  the   runtimes  are proprietary  ,  closed-source software , source code  is  provided for  सबसे  of  the   sdk  samples  .
Starting with the  रिलीज   of   खिड़कियाँ  8  डेवलपर  Preview , DirectX  sdk  has been  एकीकृत  into Windows  sdk  .
Direct3D  9ex   ,  Direct3D 10  ,   और   direct3d   11  are only available for  खिड़कियाँ  Vista  और   नए  because  प्रत्येक   of   ये  new versions  थी   निर्मित  to  निर्भर  upon  the  new  खिड़कियाँ  Display Driver  मॉडल  that  थी  introduced for  खिड़कियाँ  Vista .
the  new Vista/WDDM  ग्राफिक्स   वास्तुकला  includes a new  वीडियो  memory  मैनेजर   supporting   आभासीकरण  of  ग्राफिक्स  hardware  लिये   विभिन्न  applications and  सेवाएं   जैसे  the  डेस्कटॉप  Window Manager .
Quetzaltenango  ,  also  commonly  known by  इसके  indigenous  नाम   ,   xelajú   ,  or more  commonly   ,   xela   ,   is  the second largest city  of  Guatemala .
It is both  the   पूंजी   of  Quetzaltenango Department  और  the  नगरपालिका   सीट  of  quetzaltenango  municipality  .
It has  an   अनुमानित   जनसांख्यिकी  of  224,703  .
The population is about 61 % indigenous or Amerindian  ,   34   %  Mestizo  or   ladino  and  5  %  यूरोपीय  .
Quetzaltenango  is  located  in  a mountain  घाटी  at an elevation of  2,330   मीटर  ( 7,655 ft  )  above sea  स्तर   at   इसके  lowest part .
It may reach above  2,400   मीटर  within  the  city .
The  नगरपालिका  of Quetzaltenango consists of an area of  .
municipalities  abutting  the   नगरपालिका   of  Quetzaltenango include  :  Salcajá  ,  Cantel  ,  Almolonga , Zunil , El  palmar  , Concepción Chiquirichapa  ,  San Mateo , La  esperanza   ,   olintepeque  , and  सैन   आन्द्रेस  Xecul  .
All these  municipalities   हैं   भाग   of   the   विभाग  of Quetzaltenango  ,   मगर  San Andrés Xecul which  is   a  part  of  the Department of Totonicapán .
The Epic of Gilgamesh , an epic poem from Mesopotamia , is amongst the earliest  surviving  works  of   साहित्य  .
The literary history of Gilgamesh  begins  with  पाँच  independent  sumerian   कविताएं  about 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh  )   ,   किंग  of  uruk  .
Four of these were  प्रयुक्त  as source  सामग्री  for a combined epic  in   अक्कादी   .
This first combined epic , known  as  the ``  बूढ़ा  Babylonian '' version  ,   तिथियाँ  to the  18th  century  bc   और  is titled after  इसके  incipit , Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing  सब  Other Kings  ''   )  .
Only a  few  fragments  of   it  have  बच  .
the  later `` Standard Babylonian ''  संस्करण  dates from  the  13th  to  the 10th centuries BC and bears the  incipit  Sha naqba  īmuru  ( `` He who Saw  the  Deep '' ) .
fragments  of  लगभग   दो  thirds of this longer ,  twelve-tablet   संस्करण  have been recovered .
Some  of   the  best  नक़ल  were discovered in  the  library  तबाह  of the 7th-century BC  assyrian   किंग   ashurbanipal  .
the  story centers on  a   दोस्ती   between  Gilgamesh  और   enkidu   .
Enkidu  is   a  wild man created  by  the gods  as   gilgamesh  's equal to  distract  him from  oppressing  the people  of  Uruk  .
साथ   ,  they  यात्रा   to  the Cedar  पहाड़  to  शिकस्त  Humbaba ,  इसके   monstrous   संरक्षक   .
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven ,  जिससे  the goddess  इश्तार   भेजना   to   सजा   gilgamesh  for spurning her advances .
as  a  दंड  for these  क्रियाएँ   ,  the  देवताओं  sentence  enkidu  to death .
The  दूसरी  half  of   the  epic focuses on Gilgamesh 's  तकलीफ  at Enkidu  's  death ,  और   उसके  quest for immortality  .
in   अनुक्रम  to learn  the  secret  of   अनन्त  life , Gilgamesh undertakes a long and  perilous   यात्रा  .
He  learns  that `` The life  कि  you are seeking you will  never  find .
When the gods created  man  they allotted to  उसे   मौत   ,  but  जीवन  they retained in their  अपना  keeping  .   ''
इस  quote was  originally   attributed  to Siduri in the Old  babylonian   संस्करण  of  the   एपिक  , and then attributed  to   the  immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in  the   अक्कादी   संस्करण  of the epic .
Nevertheless  ,   gilgamesh  's  कीर्ति  lived on after his death  ,  because of  उसके  great building projects  ,   और  his account of what Utnapishtim  बताई   उसे   happened  during the  बाढ़   .
the  story has  महरूम  translated  into   अनेक   अलग  languages  ,  and Gilgamesh  रै  since become adapted in  works   of   लोकप्रिय   fiction  .
वहीँ   हैं   numerous   debates  over  जो  created the first video  खेल   ,  with the  जवाब  depending largely on how video games are defined .
the  evolution of  वीडियो   खेल  represents a  उलझे   वेब   of  several different industries  ,  including  वैज्ञानिक   ,   कंप्यूटर  , arcade  ,   और  consumer  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स   .
The  ``  video  ''  in `` video game ``  traditionally  refers  to  a raster  प्रदर्शक  device  .
साथ   the  popular catch  phrase  use of the term `` video  खेल  ''  ,  the  पद  now implies all  प्रदर्शक   प्रकार  , formats , and platforms  .
इतिहासकारों  have also  sought  to bypass the issue  by   बजाय   using  the more specific ``  डिजिटल   खेल   ''   वर्णनात्मक  .
This  पद   पत्ते   आउट  the  पहले   analog-based   कंप्यूटर  games  .
This is a  सूची   of  best-selling video game franchises that  have  sold or shipped  at   तनिक  5  लाख  copies  .
जबतक  otherwise stated , numbers  indicate  worldwide  इकाई   बेची   ,  ordered  alphabetically  whenever two or more  सूची   the   वही   राशि   .
the  exception  हैं  the ones specifying shipments , which  have  lower  पूर्वता  than others  लिस्टिंग   बिक्री   .
मताधिकार  sales include  विस्तार  packs even  हालांकि  they are not considered  पूरा   वीडियो   खेल   .
For best-selling  व्यक्तिगत  video games , see List  of   best-selling  video  खेल   .
The sales  आंकड़े  given below do  नहीं   शामिल   आर्केड  game sales  ,  which can be  मिला   at  List  of   highest-grossing   आर्केड  video games .
– This color indicates  a   sub-series   of  a  larger  video  खेल  franchise .
This  करता   नहीं  necessarily apply  लिये   श्रेणी   कि   हैं  not video  game-based  .
Dorothy Ann Willis  रिचर्ड्स  (  सितंबर  1 , 1933 – September 13 ,  2006   )   थी  an American  राजनेता   और  the  45th  Governor  of  Texas .
वो  first came to  नेशनल  attention as  the   राज्य   कोषाध्यक्ष   of  Texas ,  जब  she  वितरित  the keynote  पता   at   the   1988  Democratic  नेशनल  Convention .
रिचर्ड्स   परोसा   as   the  45th Governor of Texas  इससे  1991 to 1995 and was  पराजित  for  re-election  in  1994   by   जार्ज   W.  Bush .
Ann  रिचर्ड्स  was the second  मादा  governor of  टेक्सास  .
आंकड़ा  Execution Prevention ( DEP )  is   a  security  विशेषता  included in  आधुनिक   ऑपरेटिंग   प्रणालियों   .
It is  ज्ञात  to be  उपलब्धियाँ  in  लिनक्स  , Mac OS X  ,  iOS  ,  Microsoft Windows and  एंड्रॉइड  operating systems and  is   intended   to   prevent  an application or  सेवा  from executing code  इससे  a non-executable  मेमोरी  region .
इस  helps prevent certain exploits  कि   स्टोर  code via a buffer overflow  ,   लिये  example .
DEP  रनों  in two  मोड्स  : hardware-enforced DEP for CPUs that  can  mark memory pages  as  nonexecutable ,  और  software-enforced DEP with  सीमित   सुरक्षा   लिये  CPUs  कि  do not  have   हार्डवेयर   support   .
Software-enforced  dep   करता  not protect against execution of  कोड  in data  पृष्ठों  ,  लकिन  instead  counters  SEH  मिटाकर  , another  प्रकार   of   आक्रमण   .
DEP  थी   introduced   on   लिनक्स  in 2004  (  kernel 2.6.8  )   ,  on Windows in 2004  साथ   खिड़कियाँ  XP  सेवा   पैक   2  ,  जबकि   ठहराना  introduced DEP  जब   वे  moved to  x86   in   2006   .
Example  उदाहरण  of  दो  common futanari variants
, is  the   जापानी   शब्द   लिये   hermaphroditism  ,  जिससे  is  भी  used in a broader sense for androgyny .
परे   जापानी   the  term is used  to  describe a  commonly  pornographic genre  of   कंप्यूटर   खेल   ,  comics and animations  ,   जिससे  includes  वर्ण   कि   दिखाएँ   दोनो   प्राथमिक  sexual  विशेषताएँ   .
लकिन  in today 's language it refers almost  exclusively  for  वर्ण  who  have  an overall  feminine  appearance .
In that  मामला  the  पद  is also often abbreviated as futa (  s  )  ,   जिससे  is  occasionally  also used as  पद   लिये  the works  itself  .
जल्दी   captchas   ऐसे  as  ये   ,  generated  by   the  EZ-Gimpy  कार्यक्रम  ,  यहूद  used  on  Yahoo !
a  modern  captcha   ,  rather  than  attempting to  बनाएँ   a  distorted background  और  high  स्तर  of  warping  on  the  text  ,  might focus  on  making  segmentation   मुश्किल   by  adding  an   angled   लकीर  .
another  way to make  segmentation  difficult is  to   भीड   प्रतीकों   साथ  ,  as  in Yahoo  !  's current  captcha   स्वरूप   .
Some CAPTCHAs try  to  utilize the ability  of  people  to  see  three-dimensional   वस्तुएँ  .
on  this image , symbols  हैं   drawn  with lines  of   अलग   मोटाई   to   मेक  an effect of extrusion .
A CAPTCHA  (  ) is a type of challenge-response test used in  कम्प्यूटिंग  as  an   attempt  to ensure  कि  the  जवाब   is  generated by a human  होने  .
the   प्रक्रम   प्रायः   involves   a   कंप्यूटर   पूछे  a user to complete a simple test which  the   कंप्यूटर   is  able to  ग्रेड   .
These tests are designed to be  आसान  for a computer  to  generate  लकिन  difficult for a computer to solve , but  again   आसान  for  a   इंसान   .
if  a correct solution is  प्राप्त  , it  can  be presumed to have been entered by  a   इंसान  .
A common  प्रकार   of  CAPTCHA requires the user  to  type letters and/or  अंक   इससे  a  distorted  image that appears on the  स्क्रीन  .
Such  परीक्षण  are commonly used to prevent  अनावश्यक   अंतरजाल   बॉट  from  accessing  websites  ,  since a normal human  can   easily  read  a  CAPTCHA  ,  while  the   bot  can  नहीं  process the  चित्र   अक्षर  and  इसलिए  ,  can  not answer properly , or  at   सब   .
हालांकि   सबसे  CAPTCHAs are letter pictures  randomly   उत्पन्न   ,   अनेक  of  उन्हें  have  become  difficult  भी  for  a  human to read , so  चित्र   captchas  were created in which a human  is  shown  a  simple test to show  a   चित्र   of   a  certain  एनिमल  ( given few  एनिमल  pictures ) ,  जिससे  is simple  लिये  a  इंसान  being to process  ,  and therefore easy to pick ,  जबकि   a   bot  can  नहीं   प्रक्रम  and solve  the   सवाल   क्युकी   हालांकि  it  can   analyze   the   चित्र  , it can not  easily   अंदाज़ा  the animal  .
the  term ``  captcha  ''  थी  coined in  2000  by  लुइस  von  ahn  , Manuel Blum ,  निकोलस  J.  हॉपर  ,  और   जॉन   langford   (   सब  of Carnegie Mellon  विश्वविद्यालयों   )  .
it   is   an   एक्रोनिम   आधारित   on  the  शब्द  `` capture '' and  खड़ा  for  ``   completely  Automated Public  turing  test  to   बताना  Computers and Humans Apart  ''   .
कार्नेगी  Mellon  विश्वविद्यालयों  attempted  to  trademark the  पद   on   15   अक्तूबर  2004  ,  but  the   ट्रेडमार्क   अनुप्रयोग  was abandoned  on   21  April 2008  .
A CAPTCHA is sometimes  वर्णित   as  a reverse  turing  test  ,   क्युकी   it   is  administered by  a   यंत्र  and targeted  at  a human , in contrast to the standard  turing   परीक्षण  that  is   typically  administered by  a   इंसान   और  targeted at  a   यंत्र   .
Jacques-Yves Cousteau  (   ;   commonly   ज्ञात   in   अंग्रेज़ी  as Jacques Cousteau ;  11  June 1910 –  25  June  1997  )  थी  a French naval officer  ,  explorer , conservationist  ,   फिल्मकार  , innovator  ,  scientist , photographer , author and researcher  जो   पढ़ाई  the sea and all forms of life  in   जल  .
He  co-developed  the Aqua-Lung ,  pioneered   समुद्री  conservation and was  a   सदस्य   of  the  académie   française   .
KFC ( Kentucky Fried Chicken ) is a fast food restaurant chain  headquartered   in   louisville   ,   केंटकी   ,   संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  जिससे  specializes in fried  मुर्गा   .
an   ``  American icon  ''  , it  is  the world  's  second largest restaurant  कड़ी  overall ( as measured by  बिक्री  ) after McDonald  's  , with over  18,000  outlets in  120  countries and territories .
the  company  is  a subsidiary of Yum  !
Brands  ,   a   रेस्तरां  company  जिससे  also owns Pizza  हट  and Taco  घंटी  .
केएफसी   थी  founded  by  Harland  सैंडर्स  , who began  selling  fried  मुर्गा   इससे   उसके  roadside  रेस्तरां   in   कोर्बिन  ,  केंटकी   दौरान   the  Great  अवसाद   .
Sanders  थी  one  of  the first people to see the potential of  the  restaurant  फ़्रेंचाइज़िंग  concept ,  साथ  the  पहला  ``  केंटकी  Fried Chicken  ''   मताधिकार  opening in Utah in  1952  .
the  franchise popularized  मुर्गा   in  the fast food industry  ,   thereby   diversifying  the market and challenging the  दबदबा  of the hamburger .
Marketing himself as ``  कर्नल  Sanders  ''  , he became  a  legendary figure  of  American  सांस्कृतिक  history ,  और  his image is still prominently  प्रयुक्त  in KFC  ब्रांडिंग   .
the  company  's   रैपिड  expansion saw  it  grow  too   विशाल  for Sanders  to   मैनेज  ,  और   in  1964 he  बेची   the   कम्पनी  to a  समूह  of investors led by John Y . Brown  ,   jr.   और   जोकर  Massey .
केएफसी   थी   एक   of   the  first fast food chains  to  expand internationally  ,  opening outlets in  इंग्लैण्ड  , Mexico and  प्यूर्टो  Rico  by  the  mid-1960s  .
Throughout the  1970s  and  1980s   ,  KFC  अनुभवी  mixed  सौभाग्य   domestically   ,  as it went through a series of  कॉरपोरेट  owners  जो  had  छोटी  or  no   अनुभव  in the  रेस्तरां  business  .
in   the  early 1970s ,  केएफसी   थी  sold to the spirits  कड़  Heublein ,  जो  were taken  over  by  the  R.J. Reynolds food  और  tobacco conglomerate  ,  who sold the chain to PepsiCo .
the  chain  जारी   to   विस्तार  overseas  however  ,  और   in   1987  KFC  became  the  पहला   पश्चिमी   रेस्तरां  chain to  खोलें   in  China .
the  chain has  चूंकि  expanded rapidly in  चीन  , and the  देश  is  अभी  the  कम्पनी   's  most  लाभप्रद  market .
PepsiCo  spun   बंद  its  रेस्तरां  division as Tricon Global Restaurants  ,   जिससे   बाद   बदला  its name  to   यम   !
Brands .
KFC primarily  बिकता  fried chicken  टुकड़े  and variations such  as  chicken sandwiches  और   wraps  ,  सलाद   और  side dishes such  as   फ्रेंच  fries and coleslaw ,  desserts  and soft  पेय  , often supplied  by  PepsiCo .
Its  सबसे  famous  उत्पाद   is   दबाव  fried  मुर्गा  pieces , seasoned  साथ  Sanders  '   ``  Original Recipe '' of  11  herbs  और  spices  .
The exact  प्रकृति  of these ingredients is unknown ,  और  represents a notable trade secret .
larger  portions of  fried   मुर्गा  are served  in  a distinctive  गत्ता  ``  बाल्टी  ''  ,  which has become a  हस्ताक्षर  of  the   कड़ी  since being introduced by  वाल   पीट   हर्मन   .
KFC  is  famous  लिये  the slogan ``  उंगली   lickin  '  शुभ  ''  ,   जिससे  has since been  replaced  by `` Nobody does  मुर्गा   जैसे  KFC ''  और  `` So good '' .
निडारिया  (  साथ   a  silent  c  ) or  coelenterata   is   a  phylum containing over  10,000  species of animals found  exclusively  in  जलीय   और  mostly marine  environments  .
Their distinguishing feature  is  cnidocytes  ,   specialized  cells that  वे   उपयोग  mainly  लिये   capturing  prey  .
Their  लाशें   consist  of  mesoglea  ,  a  non-living jelly-like substance ,  sandwiched  between  दो  layers of epithelium  कि  are mostly one  कोशिका  thick  .
They have  दो   मौलिक  body  फ़ॉर्म  : swimming  medusae   और   स्थानबद्ध   polyps   ,  both  of   जिससे   हैं   radially   सममित  with mouths surrounded by  tentacles  that bear cnidocytes .
Both forms  have  a  सिंगल   orifice   और   देह  cavity that  हैं   प्रयुक्त  for digestion and respiration  .
Many cnidarian species  उपज  colonies that are  सिंगल   जीवों  composed  of   medusa-like  or  polyp-like   zooids  , or  दोनो   .
Cnidarians  '  activities  हैं  coordinated  by   a   विकेन्द्रित   तंत्रिका  net and simple receptors  .
अनेक  free-swimming Cubozoa  और   scyphozoa  possess  balance-sensing  statocysts , and some have simple eyes .
Not  सब  cnidarians  reproduce  sexually  .
Many have  जटिल   lifecycles   साथ   अलैंगिक  polyp stages and sexual medusae ,  लकिन  some  omit  either  the  polyp  or   the   medusa  stage .
cnidarians  were for a long time  grouped   साथ  Ctenophores in  the  phylum  coelenterata  ,  लकिन  increasing awareness of  उनके  differences caused them to be  लगाई  in separate  phyla  .
Cnidarians are classified  into   चार   प्रमुख  groups : the  लगभग   wholly  sessile  anthozoa   (  sea anemones ,  corals  , sea  पेन  )  ;   तैराकी  Scyphozoa ( jellyfish ) ; Cubozoa  (   बक्सा  jellies ) ; and Hydrozoa , a  विविध   समूह  that includes all the freshwater cnidarians  as  well as many  समुद्री  forms , and has both  स्थानबद्ध  members  ऐसे   as   hydra   और  colonial  swimmers  such  as  the  पुर्तगाली   man  o '  युद्ध   .
staurozoa   have  recently been recognised  as  a  क्लास   in   उनके   अपना  right rather than a  sub-group   of  Scyphozoa  ,   और  there  is   बहस  about whether Myxozoa and Polypodiozoa  हैं  cnidarians  or  closer  to  bilaterians  (  more complex animals  )  .
सबसे  cnidarians prey on organisms ranging  in  size from  प्लवक   to  animals several times  larger   than   themselves  , but many  obtain  much of their  पोषण  from endosymbiotic algae  ,  and  a   few  are parasites .
अनेक   हैं  preyed  upon   by   अन्य  animals including  starfish  , sea  slugs  ,  मछली   और  turtles  .
Coral  reefs   ,  whose polyps  हैं   समृद्ध  in  endosymbiotic  algae , support some of the  संसार   's  most productive ecosystems , and protect  वनस्पति  in tidal zones and  on  shorelines  इससे   दमदार  currents  और  tides .
जबकि  corals are almost entirely restricted to warm  ,  shallow marine  waters  , other cnidarians live in  the  depths  ,   in  polar seas and in freshwater .
Fossil cnidarians have been found  in  rocks formed about , and other  जीवाश्मों   दिखाएँ   कि   corals   may   have  been  उपस्थित  shortly  पहले   और   diversified  a few million years later .
Fossils  of   cnidarians  that  do  not build mineralized structures are  बहुत   विरल   .
Scientists currently think that  cnidarians   ,   ctenophores  and bilaterians are more closely  सम्बन्धित   to   calcareous  sponges than these  हैं  to other sponges  ,  and that anthozoans  हैं  the  विकासवादी   ``  aunts '' or  ``  sisters ''  of  other  cnidarians   ,   और   the  most closely related  to  bilaterians  .
Recent analyses  have  concluded that cnidarians  ,   हालांकि   माना   अधिक  ``  आदिम  ''  than  bilaterians ,  have   a   wider  range of genes  .
The Aztec  पिरामिड  at  st.  Cecilia Acatitlan , Mexico  राज्य  .
Aztec jade  मुखौटा   depicting   the  god Xipe  totec  .
Large ceramic  प्रतिमा   of   an   एज़टेक  Eagle Warrior
एज़टेक   cosmogram  in the pre-Hispanic  codex   fejérváry-mayer  -  the  fire god Xiuhtecuhtli is in the center  .
the  Aztec people were certain ethnic  समूह  of  सेंट्रल   मैक्सिको  , particularly those  समूह   जो  spoke  the  Nahuatl  भाषा  and who dominated  विशाल   भाग  of  मेसोअमेरिका  from the 14th to 16th  सदियां   .
The  नावातल  words  aztecatl  (  एकवचन  ) and aztecah (  बहुवचन  ) mean  ``   लोगों   इससे  Aztlan ``  ,  a mythological place for  the  Nahuatl-speaking culture of the  समय   ,  and later adopted as the word to  define  the Mexica people .
Often  the   पद  `` Aztec '' refers  exclusively   to   the  Mexica  लोगों   of   tenochtitlan  ( now  the  location  of   मैक्सिको  City  )   ,  situated  on  an island in Lake Texcoco  ,   जो   referred  to themselves as Mexica Tenochca or  cōlhuah   mexica   .
Sometimes the  पद   भी   शामिल  the inhabitants  of  Tenochtitlan  's  two  प्रिंसिपल  allied city-states , the  acolhuas   of  Texcoco  और   the  Tepanecs  of  Tlacopan ,  जो  together with  the  Mexica formed  the   एज़टेक   ट्रिपल   गठबंधन  which controlled what is often known as  ``  the Aztec Empire  ''   .
In other  contexts   ,  Aztec  may   refer  to  सब  the various city  राज्य  and their peoples , who shared large parts of  उनके  ethnic  इतिहास  and cultural  traits  with the Mexica ,  acolhua  and Tepanecs , and who often  भी  used  the  Nahuatl language as a lingua  फ़्रांका   .
In this meaning it is possible to talk  परिचय  an Aztec civilization including all  the  particular cultural  पैटर्न  common for most  of  the peoples  inhabiting  Central Mexico in the late postclassic period  .
From  the   13th  century , the  घाटी  of Mexico was the heart of Aztec civilization  :   यहाँ  the  पूंजी   of  the  एज़टेक   ट्रिपल   गठबंधन  ,  the  city of Tenochtitlan  ,  was built upon  उठाया   आइलेट  in  झील  Texcoco .
The Triple  गठबंधन  formed a tributary empire  expanding  its  राजनैतिक   आधिपत्य  far beyond the Valley  of  Mexico  ,  conquering other city states throughout Mesoamerica  .
At its  शिखर  , Aztec culture  था  rich  और   जटिल  mythological  और  religious traditions , as well as reaching remarkable architectural and artistic  accomplishments  .
in  1521  hernán  Cortés  ,  along  साथ  a large  क्रमांक  of  नावातल  speaking indigenous allies  ,   conquered   tenochtitlan   और  defeated  the  Aztec  ट्रिपल  Alliance under the leadership of  hueyi  Tlatoani  moctezuma   ii   .
Subsequently the Spanish founded  the  new settlement of  मैक्सिको  City on  the   साईट  of the ruined  एज़टेक  capital ,  इससे  where  वे  proceeded  साथ  the  प्रक्रम  of colonizing  सेंट्रल   अमेरिका  .
Aztec culture  और   इतिहास  is primarily known  through   पुरातत्व   प्रमाण  found  in  excavations  ऐसे  as  कि  of the  प्रसिद्ध   templo  Mayor in Mexico City ;  इससे  indigenous bark  पेपर  codices  ;  from eyewitness accounts by Spanish  conquistadors  such as  hernán  Cortés and  बर्नल  Díaz  डेल   कैस्टिलो  ;  और  especially  इससे  16th  और  17th  सदी   descriptions  of Aztec  संस्कृति  and history  लिखा   by  Spanish  clergymen   और   साक्षर  Aztecs  in  the Spanish  or  Nahuatl language  ,   ऐसे  as  the  famous Florentine Codex  compiled   by   the  Franciscan  भिक्षु   bernardino  de Sahagún  साथ  the  सहायता  of indigenous  एज़टेक  informants .
Anderson Hays  कूपर  ( born  जून   3  , 1967  )  is an American  पत्रकार   ,   लेखक  ,  और  television personality .
He is the primary anchor of  the  CNN news  दिखाएँ   एंडरसन  Cooper  360°   .
The program is normally  ब्रॉडकास्ट   सजीव  from a  नई  York City studio ;  however  , Cooper  प्रायः   प्रसारण   सजीव  on location  लिये  breaking  न्यूज   कहानियां  .
as  of September 2011  ,   he  also serves  as  host of his own eponymous syndicated  दिन   बात   दिखाएँ  , Anderson  सजीव  ,  जिससे   होगा  be  रद्द   at  the end of  the  second  ऋतु  .
a   प्लाट  of a  सामान्य   वितरण   (  or  bell-shaped   वक्र   )   जहाँ  each band  रै   a  width of  1   मानक  deviation  –  See also :  68-95-99.7   नियम
Cumulative probability of a  सामान्य  distribution with expected value 0  और   मानक  deviation  1  .
In statistics and probability theory  ,  standard deviation (  represented  by the  प्रतीक   सिग्मा  , σ  )  shows how much variation or dispersion exists from the  औसत   (   औसत  ) ,  or  expected  मान  .
A  कम  standard deviation indicates that  the  data points tend to  be   बहुत   बंद  to the mean  ;  high standard deviation indicates that  the  data points  हैं   स्प्रेड  out over a large range  of  values .
the   मानक  deviation  of   a   यादृच्छिक   परिवर्तनीय  ,  सांख्यिकीय   जनसांख्यिकी  , data set , or probability  वितरण   is  the  वर्गाकार  root  of   इसके   variance  .
It is algebraically simpler though practically less robust  than   the  average absolute  विचलन  .
a  useful property  of  standard deviation  is   कि   ,   नापसंद   variance   ,  it is  expressed   in   the  same  इकाई  as the data .
Note , however  ,  that  लिये   माप  with  प्रतिशत   as  unit ,  the   मानक  deviation will  have  percentage  अंक  as  ईकाई   .
in  addition  to   expressing  the  variability  of  a  population  ,  standard  विचलन   is  commonly used to  माप   विश्वास  in  सांख्यिकीय  conclusions  .
For  उदाहरण   ,   the   हाशिया  of  गलती  in polling  आंकड़ा  is determined  by   calculating   the   अपेक्षित   मानक  deviation  in   the  results  if  the same  पोल   यहूद   to   be   conducted   अनेक  times .
The  reported   हाशिया   of  error is typically  परिचय   twice   the   मानक  deviation  ­–   the  radius of a  95  percent confidence interval  .
In science , researchers commonly  रपट   the  standard  विचलन  of experimental data , and only effects that  पतन   दूर   बाहर   the  range  of   मानक  deviation are  माना   statistically   significant   –  normal  यादृच्छिक  error or  विभिन्नता  in the  माप   is   in   इस   रास्ता  distinguished from causal variation .
Standard  विचलन  is also  महत्वपूर्ण  in finance  ,  where the  मानक   विचलन   on   the  rate of return on an investment is a measure  of  the volatility of  the  investment  .
When only  a   नमूना  of data  इससे   a  population is available , the standard deviation  of   the  population can be estimated by a modified  मात्रा   पुकारा  the ``  नमूना   मानक  deviation '' .
जब   the  sample  is   the  entire population ,  इसके  unmodified  मानक   विचलन   is   पुकारा   the   ``  population  मानक  deviation  ''  .
Ulluco  (  u : ju :  kɔ  : )  (  Ullucus tuberosus ) is a  संयंत्र  grown primarily as a  रूट  vegetable ,  secondarily   as   a  leaf vegetable .
The  ulluco  is  एक   of  the most  widely  grown and  economically  important root crops  in   the   andean  region of  दक्षिण  America  ,  second  तभी   to   the   आलू   .
It  is  known  वहीँ  with the common name of  पापा  lisa  ,   लकिन   भी  by the  क्षेत्रीय   names   melloco   (  Ecuador  )  , olluco ( Peru ) , chugua  (   कोलंबिया  ) or ruba ( Venezuela )  ,  among  अन्य   .
the  leaf and  the  tuber are edible  ,   समान   to   पालक  and  the   आलू   ,  respectively .
They are known to  contain  high levels  of   प्रोटीन   ,  calcium ,  और  carotene .
Papalisa  यहूद  used by  the  Incas  prior  to arrival  of  Europeans in South America  .
Ulluco tubers are  marketed  as  ``   धरती   रत्नों   ''   in  New  जीलैंड   ,   by  Halfords Exotic Produce .
Ulluco tubers  in  New  जीलैंड
An April 24 ,  1851   पोस्टर  warning the  ``  colored  लोगों   of  Boston  ''  about policemen  एक्टिंग   as  slave  catchers  .
the  Fugitive  स्लेव  Law or Fugitive  स्लेव   अधिनियम   थी  passed by the United States  कॉंग्रेस  on September  18   ,  1850 ,  as  part  of  the Compromise  of  1850 between Southern slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers  .
This  थी  one of  the   सबसे  controversial acts  of  the  1850   सुलह   और  heightened  उत्तरी  fears of a  ``  slave power conspiracy  ''  .
it  declared that all  runaway  slaves were  ,  upon capture , to be returned to their  मास्टर्स  .
Abolitionists  nicknamed  it  the   ``  Bloodhound  विधि  ''  लिये  the dogs that  यहूद   प्रयुक्त  to  track   bas   runaway  slaves .
Frank  जोसेफ  Pallone , Jr. (  born   अक्तूबर   30  ,  1951   )  is the U.S. Representative  लिये  , serving since  1993   .
He is  a  member of  the  Democratic  पार्टी   .
he   previously   represented   the  3rd district from 1988 to  1993  .
trin-i-tee  5:7 is a  इन्जील  duo  इससे  New  ऑरलियन्स  , Louisiana  in  the United  राज्य  .
the  group  थी   marketed   as  a gospel alternative to  r   &   b  girl groups  ऐसे   as  Destiny  's  Child and TLC .
Trin-i-tee  5:7   रै  sold over  2.5  million albums .
In  1998  , the group released their first album entitled  trin-i-tee   5:7  which debut  at   #  1  on  the  शीर्ष  Gospel charts  .
the   एल्बम   प्रदर्शित  the  गीतों  ``  परमेश्वर   's   अनुग्रह   ''  and  the  cover song `` Oh !
Mary  do  n't You Weep ''  .
the   एल्बम  later became  certified  gold .
In  1999   ,  Terri Brown  बाएँ  the group and was  बाद   replaced  by singer  एड्रियन  Anderson  .
During that  साल  , the group  अंकित   और   released   उनके   दूसरी   एल्बम  ,  आध्यात्मिक  Love .
the  album became the  समूह  's second # 1  एल्बम  on the Top Gospel charts .
the  album  contained  the  singles  `` Put  अपना  Hands '' and  ``   my  Body ''  .
In 2002 , the group released  उनके  third  एल्बम  The  चुंबन  which  debuted   at  # 2 on  the   शीर्ष   इन्जील  charts .
in  2007  ,   the   समूह  left  gospocentric  Records  और  signed a record deal  साथ   स्पिरिट   उठती  Music .
in  late  2007  , Trin-i-tee  5:7  released their fifth  एल्बम   t57  ,  जिससे   प्रदर्शित  the  शीर्ष   टेन   इन्जील   सिंगल   ``   सुनो  ''  .
T57  charted   #  2 on  the  Top Gospel Albums , # 5 on the  शीर्ष   ईसाई   चार्ट  , and #  12   on   the  Top  r  & B  चार्ट   .
The  संयुक्त   राज्य   संघीय  earned  आय   कर  credit or  अर्जित  income  क्रेडिट   (   eitc   or  EIC )  is  a  refundable  tax credit for low-  और  medium-income individuals  और  couples  ,  primarily  लिये  those  जो   have   qualifying  children .
जब   the  credit exceeds the amount  of  taxes owed ,  it   परिणाम  in  a  tax  refund   to  those  जो  claim the  क्रेडिट  .
This  क्रेडिट   is   provided   to   ऑफसेट   the   बोझ   of   सोशल   सुरक्षा  taxes  और  also to promote an  प्रोत्साहन  to  कार्य  .
in   अनुक्रम  for  a  person or  युगल  to claim one  or   अधिक   व्यक्तियों   as   उनके   qualifying   चाइल्ड  ( ren )  ,   the  age ,  संबंध  , and  साझा   रेसिडेंसी   आवश्यकताएँ  must be met  ,  as well as some other  आवश्यकताएँ  .
U.S.  कर  forms 1040EZ  ,   1040a  , or 1040  can   be   प्रयुक्त  to claim  eic   बगैर  qualifying children .
To  अर्जी  the credit with qualifying  children  , 1040A  or   1040  must  be  used  ,   as   खूब  as  attaching   अनुसूची  EIC .
eic   phases   in  slowly ,  रै  a medium-length plateau  ,   और   तब  phases out  अधिक   धीरे  than  it  phased  in   .
चूंकि   the   क्रेडिट  phases out at 21 %  (  for two children and  लिये  three  or   अधिक  qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( for one qualifying child ) , it  is   सदा  preferable  to   have   एक  more dollar  of   वास्तविक  salary or wages (  हालांकि  technically  ,   चूंकि  the  eic  table  चालें   by   पचास   डालर  increments  ,  it  's  always preferable  to   have  an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages )  .
For tax  साल  2011 ,  the  maximum  eic  for  a  single person  or  couple  दाखिल  without  qualifying   children  was $  464  .
the   अधिकतम   eic   साथ  one  qualifying  child was $  3,094  , with  दो   children   थी  $ 5,112  ,  and with three or more  qualifying   children   थी  $ 5,751 .
These amounts  हैं  indexed  annually  for inflation  .
The earned income tax  क्रेडिट   रै   महरूम  part of political debates in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  regarding whether raising the minimum wage or increasing EIC  होगा   बेहतर   पता  a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs .
the  following is a  सूची  of  मध्यांतर   shows   आयोजित   at  the National  फ़ुटबॉल  League  's   चैंपियनशिप  game  ,  the Super Bowl .
While  मध्यांतर   shows  are a tradition  दौरान   फ़ुटबॉल  games  at   सब  levels  of   प्रतियोगिता   ,  the Super  कटोरी   मध्यांतर   दिखाएँ  represents a  आधारभूत  link  to   पॉप   संस्कृति  ,  जिससे  helps broaden the  टेलीविज़न  audience  और  nationwide interest  .
in  most years  चूंकि   the  mid-1980s  ,  the  मध्यांतर   दिखाएँ  of  the   सुपर   कटोरी  has  प्रदर्शित  popular  रिकॉर्डिंग   कलाकारों  and other  well-known   हस्तियाँ  .
It has measurably  increased   टेलीविज़न  viewers  दौरान  and after  the  halftime  दिखाएँ  .
The  प्रदर्शन  is regarded  एक   of  the most-watched events in American  टेलीविज़न  annually  साथ  over  100  million viewers  in  the  संयुक्त  States  अलोन  .
Musical genres over the  सालो   have   represented   a  broad range  of  music types , including  पॉप  ,  चट्टान  , classic rock ,  देश   ,  hip hop  ,   रैप  , blues  ,   और   आत्मा   .
In  कुछ  years  ,   छोटी  skits or drama scenes are  acted   आउट  on  a   स्टेज  .
The performance group Up with  लोगों  has  performed  at  the   सबसे   सुपर   कटोरी  halftime shows ,  अभिनीत  in four during the  1970s  and  1980s  .
according   to  Nielsen ratings , Super  कटोरी   xlvi  halftime show  headlined  by Madonna in 2012 remains  the  most-watched halftime  दिखाएँ  in  इतिहास  , with  114  million  दर्शक  or about  3   लाख  more  than   the  actual  खेल  .
Beyonce 's  2013   मध्यांतर   दिखाएँ   प्रदर्शन  was  the  second  सबसे  viewed  दिखाएँ  in history .
It is listed on the Guinness World  रिकॉर्ड   as   the   largest   tv   दर्शक   लिये  a Super Bowl  half-time  performance .
International Men  's  Day ( IMD ) is an annual international event  मनाये   on  19th November .
Inaugurated  in  1999  in   त्रिनिदाद  and Tobago , the  दिन  and  इसके   कार्यक्रम  find  support  from a variety of  individuals   और  groups  in  Australia  ,  the Caribbean , North America ,  एशिया  ,  यूरोपीय  and  अफ़्रीकी  .
Speaking on behalf  of   युनेस्को   ,   निदेशक  of  महिलाओं   और  Culture of Peace Ingeborg  breines  said of IMD  ,  `` This is an  बेहतरीन   विचार  and would  दे  some gender  संतुलन   .  ''
She added  कि  UNESCO  थी  looking  आगे  to  cooperating   साथ  the  आयोजकों  .
the  objectives of celebrating  an  International Men 's  दिन  include  focusing   on   मेन  's and boys  '  health  ,  improving gender  संबंध  , promoting gender  समता  ,  और  highlighting  धनात्मक   पुरूष  role models .
it  is  an  occasion to highlight discrimination  विरूद्ध   मेन   और  boys and  to   celebrate   उनके  achievements and  योगदान   ,   in   particular  for  उनके  contributions  to   जातियाँ   ,   परिवार   ,  marriage , and  चाइल्ड  care .
the   broader  and  परम   उद्देश्य   of   the  event is  to  promote  मौलिक  humanitarian values .
International Men  's  Day  is   मनाये  in over 60 countries  ,   सहित  Trinidad  और   टोबैगो   ,  Jamaica , Australia , India ,  चीन   ,  United  राज्य   ,  Romania  ,  Singapore ,  माल्टा   ,   संयुक्त   किंगडम  ,  दक्षिण   अफ़्रीकी  ,  तंजानिया  , Zimbabwe  ,   बोत्सवाना   ,   australia  , Burundi  ,   हंगेरियाई   ,   आयरलैंड  , Isle  of   man   ,   घाना   ,  Canada  ,  Denmark  ,   नार्वे  ,  ऑस्ट्रिया  ,  बोस्निया  and  हर्ज़ेगोविना  ,  युक्त   ,  France  ,  Italy ,  पाकिस्तानी   ,  Cuba ,  अण्टीगुआ  and  बारबूडा  , St.  किट्स  and  नेविस   ,  St.  लूसिया  ,  हरा  and  केमन   आइलैंड्स  ,  on   19  November  ,  and global  support  for the celebration is  व्यापक  .
घाटी   गाँव  ParkValley
Village is a district in the  सैन  Fernando  घाटी   प्रदेश  of Los  एंजिल्स  , California  .
the  median age of  इसके  population  ,  at 36 , is `` old for the  नगर   of   लॉस  Angeles . ''  और  its average household  आकार  of two  लोगों   is   कम   ,  compared  to  other parts of the  नगर   .
developmental  psychology is  the  scientific  पढ़ाई   of  changes  कि  occur in  इंसान  beings over  the  course of their life span  .
Originally  चिंतित   साथ  infants and  children  ,  the  field  रै   विस्तारित  to  शामिल   किशोरावस्था  ,  वयस्क   विकास  , aging ,  और  the  संपूर्ण   जीवन   स्पैन   .
इस   फ़ील्ड  examines  बदलें  across a  व्यापक   दायरा  of  विषय   सहित   मोटर  skills  और   अन्य  psycho-physiological  प्रक्रियाओं  ;  संज्ञानात्मक   विकास   involving  areas  ऐसे  as  प्रॉब्लम   solving  ,  moral   समझना  ,  और  conceptual  समझना   ;  language  अधिग्रहण   ;   सोशल   ,   व्यक्तित्व   ,  and emotional development ; and self-concept and identity formation .
Developmental psychology includes issues such  as  the  extent  to which development occurs  through  the gradual accumulation of knowledge  बनाम  stage-like  विकास   ,   or   the  extent  to  which  children   हैं  born  साथ   स्वाभाविक   दिमागी   structures   बनाम   सीखना  through  अनुभव   .
Many researchers  हैं  interested  in  the  बातचीत   between  personal characteristics  ,   the  individual 's  बर्ताव   ,  and  पर्यावरणीय  factors  सहित  social  कॉन्टेक्स्ट  , and  उनके   प्रभाव  on development  ;   अन्य  take a  अधिक  narrowly-focused approach  .
developmental  psychology informs  अनेक  applied fields , including :  शैक्षणिक  psychology ,  चाइल्ड   psychopathology  ,  और  forensic developmental psychology .
developmental  psychology complements  अनेक  other basic research  फ़ील्ड  in psychology  सहित   सोशल   मनोविज्ञान  , cognitive  मनोविज्ञान  ,  ecological  psychology ,  और   तुलनात्मक  psychology .
जोसेफ  Michael ``  जॉय  ''  stivic  is  a  fictional character who first appeared  on  the 1970s  अमरीकी  sitcom All in  the   परिवार  .
Joey Stivic was  the  son and only  चाइल्ड  of Mike Stivic (  निभाई   by  Rob Reiner  )  and Gloria Stivic ( played by  सैली  Struthers )  ,   और  the grandson of Archie  बंकर   (   कैरल  O'Connor )  और  Edith Bunker (  जां  Stapleton  )  .
The  अक्षर   पहला   appeared   as  a newborn baby in  a  two-part episode  of  All  in  the Family which  aired  in December 1975  .
After  अनेक   दिखावे  on All  in  the Family until Reiner  और   struthers   बाएँ   the   श्रेणी   in  1978 (  by   कि   समय   ,  Joey had been  निभाई  most often  by  alternating  जुड़वा  Jason and Justin  draeger  ) ,  the  Joey Stivic  अक्षर  next  appeared   on  the  सब   in   the   परिवार  spin-off  श्रेणी  ( some  कॉल   it   a   continuation  of  the  original ) Archie Bunker 's Place  in  a guest appearance  in  the November 1979  एपीसोड   ``  Thanksgiving Reunion .  ''
in   इस   उदाहरण  , the character  थी   निभाई  by  चाइल्ड  actor Dick  billingsley  and was  appropriately  pre-school  आयु  .
साथ   ग्लोरिया  now  अलग  from  माइक  , she returned to Archie Bunker 's  प्लेस  with  जॉय  in the  फ़रवरी  1982  एपीसोड  `` Gloria Comes Home . ''
In  इस  episode  ,   जॉय   थी  played by  क्रिस्टोफर  Johnston .
Joey Stivic was  a  regular  अक्षर   on   the   सब  in  the   परिवार  spin-off series  ग्लोरिया   in   1982  and 1983  .
On this series  ,   in  which the now-divorced Gloria Bunker character had moved to Upstate  नई  York  in   अनुक्रम  to work as an assistant veterinarian , the  भाग   of   जॉय  Stivic  थी  played  by   ten-year-old  actor Christian  jacobs   .
After  ग्लोरिया  was canceled in 1983  ,   जॉय  Stivic disappeared from prime time television for 11  सालो   ,   जबतक   the   अक्षर   बना   एक  last  रूप   on   704   hauser   ,  a short-lived 1994  श्रेणी   परिचय  a black  परिवार   जो  had moved into  the   बूढ़ा  Bunker  घर  ,  सालो  after Bunker had sold it  .
In  इस  appearance  ,  the Joey Stivic  अक्षर  was played  by  Casey  siemaszko  , an  कर्ता   born  in  1961  (  14  years  पहले  Joey  stivic  's fictional  जनम   )   .
in  1976 the Ideal Toy  कम्पनी   released   a  14-inch ``  जॉय  Stivic  गुड़िया  '' ( called `` Archie Bunker 's  पोता  '' )  जिससे  was billed  as  the  ``  first  anatomically  correct male doll . ''
The doll inspired mild  विवाद  at the time ,  और  is  a   collectors   '  item today .
The  2011  Rose  कटोरी   थी   the  97th edition of  the   सालाना  bowl game  निभाई   on  January 1 , 2011  ,  as part  of  the  2010  college football  ऋतु  .
Played in Pasadena , California  ,  the  tcu   horned  Frogs of the Mountain West Conference defeated the Wisconsin Badgers of the Big Ten Conference  by  a  स्कोर   of  21 – 19 .
the  Pasadena Tournament of Roses Association was the organizer of the game  .
Vizio Inc. was the corporate sponsor and the  खेल   थी   officially   नामित  `` The  रोज़  Bowl Game presented  by  Vizio ''  .
इस   खेल  marked  the  first  समय  a  टोली   इससे  a  non-automatic  Qualifying Conference played in ,  और   जीती  , the Rose Bowl  in  its  97  years .
The contest was  ब्रॉडकास्ट   on  cable  टेलीविज़न   स्टेशन  ESPN with a radio broadcast on ESPN  रेडियो   और  XM Satellite  रेडियो  and ESPN3  स्ट्रीमिंग  video over the internet  .
Coverage began  at  1:30  pm   (  PST ) with  kickoff   at  2:10 PM ( PST ) .
This marked  the  first  समय  that  the   खेल   थी   नहीं   ब्रॉडकास्ट  nationally  ``   over-the-air  ''  (   स्थलीय   टेलीविज़न   )  since the  खेल  prior  to  the  1952  Rose Bowl  ,  which was the  पहला  nationally  televised  college football game .
The Rose Bowl  खेल  , themed  भवन  Dreams ,  friendships   ,  & Memories ,  थी  a  contractual  sell-out , with  64,500  tickets allocated to the  participating  teams and conferences  .
Ticket  कीमतें  for all  सीटे   in   the   रोज़   कटोरी  are listed at $  145   .
the  remaining tickets  गई  to  the   टूर्नामेंट  of  गुलाब  members , sponsors ,  नगर  of  pasadena  residents , and the general public  .
The  रोज़   कटोरी   स्टेडियम  capacity is  सूचीबद्ध  at  लगभग  91,000 .
The Declaration of Independence is a  बयान  adopted by  the  Continental  कॉंग्रेस   on   जुलाई   4  , 1776  ,   जिससे  announced that the  तेरह  American colonies , then at  युद्ध  with Great Britain , regarded  themselves   as   स्वतंत्र  states ,  और  no  longer  a part of  the  British  साम्राज्य   .
Instead they now formed a  नई   nation—the  United States of America  .
John Adams  थी  a  नेता  in pushing  लिये  independence , which was unanimously approved on  जुलाई  2  .
A committee had already  drafted   the   औपचारिक  declaration , to  be   तैयार  when congress voted on  स्वतंत्रता   .
Adams persuaded the committee to  चुनें  Thomas Jefferson to compose the  असली  draft of the document  ,   जिससे  congress  होता   संपादन  to  उपज  the final version  .
the   घोषणा  was ultimately a formal explanation  of  why  कॉंग्रेस  had  voted  on  जुलाई   2  to  घोषित  independence from Great Britain  ,  more than  a  year  बाद  the  outbreak   of   the  American Revolutionary War .
the  national  जन्मदिवस   ,   the  Independence Day  is  celebrated on  जुलाई  4 , although Adams wanted July  2  .
बाद   ratifying   the  text  on  July 4 , Congress issued  the  Declaration of  स्वतंत्रता  in  अनेक   फ़ॉर्म  .
it   थी   initially  published  as  the printed Dunlap broadside  कि   थी  widely distributed and  पढ़ा   to  the public  .
The most famous version  of  the Declaration ,  a   हस्ताक्षरित   नक़ल  that is popularly regarded  as  the  घोषणा  of Independence  ,   is  displayed at  the  National  अभिलेख   in   वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
Although the  wording  of  the  Declaration  थी   स्वीकृत   on   जुलाई  4  ,  the  तिथि  of its  हस्ताक्षर  was  अगस्त   2   .
the  original  जुलाई  4 United States Declaration of Independence  पाण्डुलिपि   थी   खोया  while all  अन्य   नक़ल  have been  निकला  from  इस   असली  document .
the   स्त्रोत   और  interpretation of the  घोषणा  have been  the  subject  of   much  scholarly inquiry .
The  घोषणा  justified the independence of the United  राज्य  by listing colonial grievances against  किंग  George III  ,  and  by  asserting certain natural  और   विधिक   अधिकारों   ,   सहित  a right of  क्रान्ति  .
Having  परोसा   इसके  original  purpose  in announcing independence ,  the  text  of  the  घोषणा  was initially ignored  बाद  the American  क्रान्ति  .
Since  तब  ,  it  has  आइये   to   be   माना  a  प्रमुख  statement on  इंसान  rights  ,  particularly its second  sentence:
we  hold  ये   सच्चाई   to   be  self-evident , that all men  हैं   निर्मित  equal , that they  हैं   endowed  by  उनके  Creator with  निश्चित  unalienable Rights  ,  that among  ये  are  जीवन   ,  Liberty and the pursuit  of   सुख   .
This has  महरूम  called  ``  one  of  the best-known sentences in  the   अंग्रेज़ी   भाषा   ''  , containing `` the most  potent  and  consequential   शब्द  in American history . ''
the  passage  आए  to  represent  a moral standard to which  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   चाहिए  strive .
This view  थी   notably  promoted  by  Abraham Lincoln , who considered the  घोषणा  to be the  न्यास  of his political  दर्शनशास्त्र   ,   और  argued  कि  the  घोषणा   is   a  statement of  सिद्धान्त  through  जिससे   the   संयुक्त  States  संविधान   चाहिए  be interpreted .
It has inspired work  लिये  the rights  of   अधिकारहीन   लोगों   throughout  the world .
chitty   chitty  Bang Bang is  a  1968  अंग्रेजों   musical   फिल्मी   loosely   आधारित  on  इयान  Fleming 's  अनोखा   .
The  फिल्मी   's  script is  by  Roald Dahl and  केन  Hughes and  इसके  songs  by  the Sherman  भाइयो  .
it  stars Dick Van Dyke  as   caractacus   potts   और   सैली   ऐन  Howes  as  Truly Scrumptious  .
The film  थी  directed by Ken Hughes and  उत्पादित   by  Albert R.  ब्रोकोली  ( co-producer of the James Bond series of films ,  भी   आधारित  on Fleming 's novels  )   .
जॉन  Stears supervised the  खास  effects .
Irwin Kostal supervised and conducted the music  ,  while  the   musical  numbers were  मंचन  by  मार्क   breaux  and Dee Dee Wood  .
a   प्रदेश  is arid  जब  it is  characterized  by  a  severe  कमी  of available water  ,   to   the   extent  of hindering or preventing the growth and development  of   संयंत्र  and  एनिमल  life  .
Environments subject to arid climates tend to lack  वनस्पति  and  हैं  called  xeric  or  desertic  .
Most `` arid  ''  climates  घेर  the  equator  ;  ये   स्थान  include most  of  Africa and parts  of  South America  और   सेंट्रल  America .
Cancer ( ♋ )  is   an   astrological  sign ,  जिससे   is   संबद्ध   साथ   the  constellation Cancer  .
it  spans  the  90-120th degree of the zodiac , between  90  and  125.25   उपाधि   of  celestial  देशांतर   ,  which the Sun transits this area on average  between  June 22  to  July 22 each year .
And  अंतर्गत   the  sidereal zodiac ,  it  is currently from July  21  to August  9   .
the  United States presidential  चुनाव   of  1960 was  the  44th  quadrennial  presidential election  ,   आयोजित  on Tuesday  ,  November 8  ,  1960  .
The  रिपब्लिकन   पार्टी  nominated  लाज़िम   vice-president  Richard  निक्सन  ,  जबकि  the Democratic Party nominated John F.  कैनेडी  , Senator from Massachusetts  .
the  incumbent  अध्यक्ष  ,  रिपब्लिकन   ड्वाइट  D. Eisenhower ,  थी  not  योग्य   लिये  re-election after  सेवारत   the   अधिकतम   दो   शर्तें  allowed  by   the  Twenty-second Amendment .
कैनेडी  was  निर्वाचित   साथ  a lead of 112,827  मत   ,   or   0.17  % of  the  popular vote  ,   giving   उसे  a victory  of  303 to  219   in   the  Electoral  कॉलेज   ,   the  closest  चूंकि  1916 .
This was the  पहला   चुनाव   in  which all fifty of the current United  राज्य  participated  .
A  क्रमांक  of  कारकों   बताइये  why  the  election  थी  so  बंद   .
Kennedy gained  चूंकि   वहीँ  was an economic recession  जिससे   ठेस  the incumbent Republican ,  और   he  had the advantage  of  17  लाख  more registered Democrats than Republicans  .
Furthermore  ,   the  new  मत  that Kennedy gained among Catholics  लगभग  neutralized the  नई  votes  निक्सन   gained  among  protestants  .
Kennedy  's  campaigning  कौशल   decisively  outmatched  निक्सन   's  .
in  the end , Nixon 's emphasis on  उसके  experience carried little weight  ,  and he wasted  उर्जा   by  campaigning in  सब  50  राज्य  instead  of   concentrating  on  the  swing  राज्य  .
Kennedy used  उसके   विशाल   ,   well-funded  campaign organization to win  the  nomination , secure endorsements , and ,  साथ  the aid of  the  last of  the  big-city  bosses  ,  to   मिलेंगी  out the vote in the big cities  .
He relied on running  mate   lyndon  B.  जॉनसन   to   थाम   the  South  और  used  टेलीविज़न   effectively  .
This  चुनाव   is  notable as being  the  first time  in   u.S.   इतिहास  that two  बैठे   u.s  . Senators ( Kennedy  और   जॉनसन   )  were  निर्वाचित   as  president and  vice-president  , a  घटना   कि  has been repeated once , by Barack  ओबामा   और   जो   बिडेन   in  2008 ( in both cases , the president was the younger , more junior  सीनेटर  )  .
शेरवुड  is a  नगर  in Washington County , Oregon  ,  United  राज्य  .
Located in the southeast  कोने  of  the   काउंटी  , it is a  आवासीय   जातियाँ  in  the  Tualatin  घाटी  southwest of Portland  .
the   जनसांख्यिकी  was 11,791 at  the  2000  जनसांख्यिकी   .
according   to  the  2010  census  ,  the population was 18,205 residents  .
Indirectly named for  the   शेरवुड   वन   in  England  ,   it  was first  incorporated   in  1893 as a  कस्बा   .
The  यूएसए  PATRIOT  अधिनियम  of 2001  is  an Act of the U.S. Congress  कि   थी  signed  into   विधि  by President George  W.   बुश   on   अक्तूबर  26 ,  2001   .
the  title of  the  act  is   a  ten letter  एक्रोनिम  ( USA PATRIOT )  कि  stands for  uniting  ( and  )   strengthening  America (  by   )  Providing Appropriate Tools Required (  to  ) Intercept  (  and  )  Obstruct Terrorism Act  of  2001  .
The act ,  as   a  response to the terrorist  हमले  of September  11th  ,  significantly  reduced  प्रतिबंध   in   विधि  enforcement agencies '  महफ़िल  of intelligence  भीतर  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  ; expanded the Secretary of  the  Treasury’s  प्राधिकार   to  regulate financial transactions , particularly  those   involving  foreign  individuals   और  entities ;  और  broadened the discretion of  विधि   प्रवर्तन  and immigration authorities  in   निमाड़  and  deporting  immigrants suspected of  terrorism-related  acts .
The act also  विस्तारित  the definition  of   आतंक   to   शामिल  domestic terrorism ,  यूँ   enlarging  the number of  क्रियाएँ   to  which  the   यूएसए  PATRIOT Act’s expanded  विधि   प्रवर्तन  powers can  be   लागू  .
on  May  26   ,  2011 ,  अध्यक्ष  Barack Obama used an  autopen  to  चिह्न   the  PATRIOT Sunsets Extension Act of 2011  ,  a  four-year  extension  of   तीन  key  प्रावधानों   in   the  USA  patriot  Act while  he  was in France  :  roving wiretaps  ,  searches  of   कारोबार  records ( the `` library records provision `` ) ,  और   conducting  surveillance of `` lone wolves  ''   —  individuals suspected  of  terrorist-related activities not  linked  to terrorist  समूह  .
रिपब्लिकन  leaders  questioned  if the  उपयोग   of  the  autopen  met  the   संवैधानिक   आवश्यकताएँ  for signing a bill into law  .
a   हाउस   in  Queen  ऐनी  style  at  223 Avenue A .
snohomish  is a  नगर  in Snohomish  काउंटी   ,  Washington , United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was  9,098  at the  2010   जनसांख्यिकी  .
the  mayor of Snohomish is  karen  Guzak ,  और  the City Manager is Larry  bauman  .
Snohomish  prides  itself  लिये   इसके   ऐतिहासिक  downtown ,  और   थी   एकबार  known  लिये  its  अनेक  antique  दुकानें  when it  थी  known  as   the   ``   पुरातन  Capital  of   the   उत्तरपश्चिम  . ''
The historic business and  आवासीय   बीच   of  the  कस्बा  constitutes the Snohomish Historic  ज़िला  ,  जिससे  is listed  on   the   नेशनल  Register of Historic Places .
Many houses  भालू   प्लाक  with  the  year  the  house was  निर्मित   और  the  नाम   of   the  family  or  individual who  originally   occupied  it .
Once  प्रत्येक  year  ,  the  नगर   देता  tours  of   the  historic  घरों  ; one  of   उन्हें   ,  the Blackman  हाउस  ,  is  a year-round museum  .
a  general  विमानन  airfield ,  घनघोर  Airfield  ,  is less than one mile southwest of Downtown Snohomish .
Dave Matthews  बैंड   (   dmb  ) is an American rock band that was formed  in  Charlottesville  ,  Virginia , United States  ,  in 1991 .
the  founding members were  singer-songwriter  and guitarist  डेव  Matthews , bassist Stefan  lessard   ,  drummer /backing vocalist Carter Beauford  और  saxophonist LeRoi Moore  .
Boyd  tinsley  was added to  the   बैंड   as  a violinist soon after the band  थी  formed  .
Moore  died  suddenly  in  August  2008   due   to   जटिलताओं  from  चोटों  sustained in an  atv   दुर्घटना  .
GRAMMY Award -winner Jeff Coffin  of  Béla  fleck  and the  flecktones  has since filled  मूर  's spot  as   the  band 's  saxophonist   .
Rashawn Ross and  टिम   रेनॉल्ड्स  have also  become  full-time  touring  members of  the   बैंड  .
The band  's   2009   एल्बम  Big  whiskey  and  the   groogrux  King  (   the  first album since  मूर  's  मौत  ) debuted at number  एक  on  the   बिलबोर्ड   200  ,  कमाई  the band their fifth consecutive  number-one  debut—  बनाना  them the second  बैंड  behind  मेटालिका  to  do   so  .
उनके   सबसे  recent  एल्बम  ,  दूर  from  the   संसार   ,  was  released   in  2012  ,  and  भी  debuted at number one  on   the   बिलबोर्ड  chart .
As  of   2010   ,  the Dave  matthews   बैंड  has  बेची  over  30   लाख   रिकॉर्ड  worldwide  .
the  band  is  known  लिये  their annual summer-long tours  of   the  United  राज्य  and Europe , featuring  lengthy   improvisational  renditions  of  their  गीतों   ,  accompanied  by   an  elaborate  वीडियो  and lighting show .
This portion of  the  tour  रै   become  a  स्टैम्प   of   dmb  and has  grown   साथ   the   बैंड  since Fenton  विलियम्स  began  working  with  उन्हें  in the  जल्दी   1990s   .
बाद  twenty  लगातार  years  of  touring  the   बैंड  announced that it  होता   लो  the summer of 2011 off  .
Dave  matthews   बैंड  has  जीती  one  ग्रैमी  Award ,  और  was awarded the  naacp  Chairman  's   पुरस्कार   .
According  to   जूलियन  Bond , `` they  बेचें  out the largest  arenas  on Earth  ,  but frequently give their music away .  ''
Transcendental Wild Oats :  a   अध्याय   इससे  an  अलिखित  Romance  is  a prose satire written by  louisa   may  Alcott ,  परिचय  her  परिवार  's involvement with the  transcendentalist  community Fruitlands in  the  early  1840s   .
the  work was first published  in  a  नई   यॉर्क  newspaper  in  1873  ,   और   reprinted  in 1874 , 1876 ,  और   1915  and after  .
In her  खाता   ,  Alcott  provides  the real people  शामिल   साथ   पतला  pseudonymous disguises .
Her  पिता  Amos  bronson  Alcott is `` Abel Lamb  ,  '' while his  संगी  and community co-founder Charles  लेन  is `` Timon  शेर  ;  ''   अबीगैल  May Alcott , Louisa 's mother  और   bronson  's  बीवी  , is ``  सिस्टर   आशा   .  ''
alcott   depicts  her  पिता  as dominated  by  his more  forceful  partner , and both men as feckless  और  impractical  dreamers  .
The men  of   the  community spend  उनके   समय  in pointless  debates  while  सिस्टर  Hope works from dawn to  संध्या  to maintain  उनके   अस्तित्व  .
A crisis  arises  at harvest time ,  जब  the grain crop  is  threatened by an approaching storm .
In  alcott   's  words , `` About the time the grain was ready to  हाउस  , some  कॉल  of  the  Oversoul  wafted   सब   the   मेन  away  .   ''
Sister  आशा   organizes  the  तभी  available  सहायता   ,  three  छोटी   लड़कियों   और  a boy , and manages  to  save the  क्रॉप  .
The little  जातियाँ  collapses as soon as the  मौसम   turns   ठंडा  , when  it  becomes  साफ  that their  प्रावधानों  are too  meager   to  last the coming  शीत  .
Timon Lion  और  his son abscond  to  join the Shakers — though Timon  is  unhappy  to  learn  कि  life  among  them is ``  सब  work  और  no  खेल  . ''
abel   is  crushed by the failure of the enterprise  ;  after days of  despair  he  begins  to eat  again   तभी   जब  he  realizes   कि  his  परिवार  needs him .
Sister Hope finds a way  लिये   उन्हें  to subsist and  persevere  .
Alcott 's view of  पुरूष  arrogance and female exploitation  in   इस  piece is paralleled  in  her novel  ,  published in  the   वही  year as `` Transcendental Wild Oats  .   ''
``  अनुभवातीत  Wild Oats '' has  महरूम  reprinted  in   अनेक   आधुनिक  editions .
माउंट  of the Holy Cross  is   the   northernmost  14,000-foot  पहाड़  in the Sawatch  दायरा  ,  भाग   of  the  रॉकी   kyu   in  Colorado  .
It is located  in   the  Holy Cross Wilderness  निकट   the   भुत  town of  पावन   क्रॉस   नगर   और  in  त्रिभुज  County .
it  was  नामित  for  the  distinctive cross-shaped snowfield  on  the  पूर्वोत्तर  face .
अंतर्गत  USDA  वन  Service administration , the  पहाड़   थी   proclaimed  `` Holy Cross  नेशनल   स्मारक  ''  by  Herbert Hoover on  may   11  ,  1929   .
the  monument was  transferred  to the  नेशनल   पार्क   सेवा  in  1933  .
In  1950  , it was returned to the  वन   सेवा   और  lost  इसके  National Monument status—the number of visitors  to   the  mountain and the nearby  ``  Pilgrim 's  हट   ''  had waned ,  और   the   व्यय  of full-time staff could not be justified  .
This mountain has  महरूम  the subject of  चित्रकार  , photographers and  भी  a poem by Henry  वाड्सवर्थ   लांगफेलो  ,  (  The Cross of Snow  )   .
the  first  सरेआम  available  फोटोग्राफ   थी  published in National Geographic  पत्रिका  .
Thomas  मोरान   चित्रित  the mountain in  an  oil painting  ,  which now is  भाग  of  the   संग्रहण  of the Museum of  the  American West  ,  part  of   the  Autry  नेशनल  Center in Los  एंजिल्स  , California .
It  is   स्टिल  much  photographed  but it  is  not as  खूब  known  आज  as it  थी   in  the  पास्ट   .
Nearby features  शामिल  Bowl  of   आंसू  Lake  ,  directly under the  ईस्ट  face of the  शिखर  , Tuhare  झीलों  ,  in  a cirque that  झूठ  south  of  a  significant   subpeak   ,  and  अनेक  other lakes  .
notable   स्थितियाँ  within include the  dotsero   ज्वालामुखी   (   निकट   अंतरराज्यीय  70 ) , Vail and Aspen  .
US  24   रनों  near the peak through  gilman   .
Photochrom  छपाई   of  Mount of  the  Holy Cross c.  1900   .
This image is  a   reversed  view of  the   पहाड़  compared  to  how  it   दरअसल   appears  .
The  पहला  recorded ascent of  पावन   क्रॉस   थी   in   1873   ,  by  F.  V. Hayden and  फ़ोटोग्राफ़र   W.  H.  जैक्सन  during one of  hayden   's  geographical surveys  .
However , the  शिखर   may   खूब   have  been ascended  previously   by  miners or  अमरीकी  Indians .
the  first  शीत  ascent of the  शिखर  was  बना  in  1943  by  russel  Keene  और   हावर्ड   freedman  of the 10th Mountain Division , then stationed at  शिविर   hale   .
Holy  क्रॉस  can be climbed by at  तनिक  four different routes  ,  with  the   easiest  and  सबसे  common route  होने  the North Ridge  ,   जिससे   involves   of   लंबवत  gain  over  and is  रेटेड  YDS  क्लास  2  लिये   मॉडरेट  scrambling .
The  क्रॉस  Couloir route  फ़ॉर्म  the  लंबवत  portion  of  the  प्रसिद्ध   क्रॉस  feature , and provides an advanced snow climb or extreme  स्की  descent  .
माउंट   of   the  Holy Cross  रै   a  history of  endangering  the lives  of   अनेक  hikers  .
primarily  , the hikers who  आवश्यकता   बचाव  are unfamiliar with  the  risks  of   प्रवेश   wilderness   क्षेत्रों  and  do  not bring  पर्याप्त  equipment and  आपूर्तियाँ  to  respond   to  emergency conditions  .
Although  the  summit  on   माउंट  of the Holy Cross is frequently reached on a  long   दिन  hike  ,  unprepared hikers are frequently stranded or lost  due  to  बदलना   पर्यावरणीय   शर्तें  and confusion  regarding  the  surrounding  landscape  ,   विशेषकर   on  the  descent  of North Ridge .
thorough  research  और  reasonable planning should prevent most  tragedies   .
माउंट  of the  पावन  cross is  accessible  from Tigiwon Road , south of  minturn  , Colorado .
the   हाफ  Moon  pass  Trail is the standard  रूट   to  the summit of Mount of the Holy  क्रॉस  via the  उत्तर  Ridge .
following   the   पतन  Creek Trail to  an  ascent  of  Notch Mountain  ट्रेल   provides   the  best view of the  पावन   क्रॉस  snow feature  इससे  Notch  पहाड़   लकीरें   .
The  जीएसएम   लोगो  is used to  पहचानो  compatible  handsets   और  equipment
जीएसएम   (   वैश्विक  System for Mobile Communications  ,   originally   '  )  ,  is  a  standard set  विकसित  by the European  दूरसंचार  Standards Institute (  etsi  ) to describe  प्रोटोकॉल   लिये  second generation  (  2G  )   डिजिटल   सेल्यूलर  networks  प्रयुक्त   by   मोबाईल   फोन   .
It  became  the  de  facto global standard for mobile  संचार  with over 80 %  मार्केट  share  .
The  जीएसएम  standard  थी   विकसित   as  a replacement  लिये   पहला  generation  (   1g  ) analog  सेल्यूलर  networks , and originally  वर्णित   a  digital ,  सर्किट   switched   संजाल  optimized for  पूरा  duplex  आवाज़   telephony  .
This was expanded  over   समय  to include data communications , first  by  circuit  switched  transport  ,  then  पैकेट  data  हस्तांतरण  via  gprs   (  General Packet  रेडियो  Services ) and EDGE ( Enhanced  आंकड़ा   दरों  for GSM Evolution or EGPRS  )   .
Further improvements  यहूद  made when the 3GPP developed third generation (  3g  )  umts  standards followed by  चौथी  generation  (  4G )  lte   उन्नत  standards  .
`` GSM '' is a trademark  स्वामित्व  by the GSM  संघ  .
अध्यक्ष   फ्रैंकलिन  D.  रूज़वेल्ट  signs  the  Lend-Lease bill to give aid  to  Britain and  चीन   (  1941  )
The  lend  Lease act  थी   an   अधिनियम  where  the  United States had  समर्थित  its  allies  .
lend-lease  ( )  थी  the law that started a program under which the  संयुक्त   राज्य  of America supplied the  संयुक्त   किंगडम  , the USSR , Republic of China  ,  Free France  ,   और  other  अलाइड  nations with  materiel  between 1941 and 1945 .
it  was signed  into  law on  कूच   11  ,  1941  , a year  और  a half after the outbreak  of  World  युद्ध   ii  in  यूरोपीय  in September  1939  .
This  थी  nine months before  the  U.S. entered the war in  दिसम्बर  1941  .
Formally  titled   an  Act to Further Promote  the  Defense of  the   संयुक्त  States , the Act  effectively  ended the United States  '  pretense  of  neutrality .
A  कुल   of  $  50   .1  billion  (  equivalent  to  $ today  )  worth of supplies were shipped : $ 31.4 billion  to   ब्रिटेन  , $ 11.3 billion to  the  Soviet  संघ  ,  $  3.2  अरब  to  फ़्रांस  , $  1.6  billion  to  China , and  छोटी   रकम  to other  allies   .
Reverse Lend-Lease  comprised  services such as rent  on   एयर  bases  कि  went to the U.S. ,  और  totaled $ 7.8 billion ; of this  ,   $   6.8  billion  आए  from the  अंग्रेजों   और  the  राष्ट्रमंडल  .
The  शर्तें  of  the  agreement  provided   कि   the  materiel was to be used until time for their return or  विनाश  .
Supplies  बाद  the termination date were sold to Britain  at  a large  छूट   लिये  £1 .075  अरब   using   long-term  loans from the United  राज्य  .
कनाडा  operated a  समान  program that  भेजा   $  4.7 billion in  आपूर्तियाँ  to the United Kingdom and the Soviet  संघ  .
The United States  किया  not charge  लिये  aid  supplied   अंतर्गत   इस   विधान   .
इस  program was  a  decisive step  दूर   इससे  non-interventionist  नीति  ,  जिससे  had dominated United  राज्य   विदेशी  relations  चूंकि  the end of World  युद्ध  I  ,   towards  international involvement .
the  Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ) , also  पुकारा  sunroot  ,  sunchoke ,  धरती   ठहराना  or  topinambour  ,  is  a  प्रजाति  of sunflower  देशी   to  eastern  उत्तर   अमेरिका  ,  और  found from  पूर्वी   कनाडा  and Maine west to North  डकोटा  , and  दक्षिण  to northern  फ्लोरिडा  and Texas  .
It is  भी  cultivated widely  आरपार  the  शीतोष्ण  zone for its  tuber  ,  जिससे  is used as  a  root vegetable .
Castillo San  फेलिप   डेल  Morro  भी  known  as   फोर्ट  San Felipe del Morro  or   morro   किला  ,  is  a  16th-century   citadel   स्तिथ  in San  जुआन  ,  प्यूर्टो   रीको  .
Stonehenge  is   a  prehistoric monument in  विल्टशायर  ,  इंग्लैण्ड  , about west  of   amesbury   और  north  of  Salisbury .
One of the most famous sites  in  the world  ,  Stonehenge is the  remains  of a ring  of   खड़ा  stones set within  earthworks  .
It is in the  मध्य  of  the   सबसे  dense complex of Neolithic  और  Bronze Age monuments  in  England ,  सहित   अनेक  hundred  दफ़न   mounds  .
Archaeologists believe it  थी   निर्मित  anywhere from 3000 BC  to   2000   bc   .
radiocarbon  dating in 2008  सुझाया  that  the  first stones  यहूद  raised between 2400  और  2200  bc   ,   whilst  another  सिद्धान्त  suggests  कि   bluestones  may have been raised at the  साईट  as  जल्दी   as  3000 BC  .
The surrounding  गोलाकार  earth bank and ditch  ,   जिससे  constitute  the  earliest  phase  of the monument  ,  have been dated  to  about 3100  bc   .
The site  और  its surroundings were  added  to the  युनेस्को  's list  of  World Heritage  साइट   in  1986 in  a  co-listing with Avebury  henge   .
It is a  नेशनल  legally  सुरक्षित  Scheduled Ancient Monument .
Stonehenge is  स्वामित्व  by the Crown and managed by English  विरासत  ,  जबकि   the  surrounding land is owned  by   the   नेशनल  Trust .
Archaeological evidence  मिला  by  the   stonehenge  Riverside Project  in   2008   indicates   कि   stonehenge   could   have   महरूम  a burial ground from  इसके  earliest beginnings  .
The  डेटिंग   of  cremated remains found on the  साईट  indicate that  जमा   contain  human bone  इससे  as  जल्दी  as 3000 BC  ,   जब  the ditch and  बैंको   यहूद  first dug  .
ऐसे   जमा   जारी   at  Stonehenge  लिये  at least  another   500  years .
the   साईट  is a place of religious significance  और  pilgrimage  in  Neo-Druidry .
The  ncaa   महिलाओं  's Division I  चैंपियनशिप   is   an   सालाना  college  बास्केट  tournament  लिये  women  .
आयोजित   प्रत्येक  April , the  महिलाओं  's Championship was  उदघाटन  in the 1981–82  ऋतु  .
The NCAA tournament  थी   preceded  by the AIAW Women  's  Basketball  टूर्नामेंट   ,  which was  आयोजित   annually  from 1972 to 1982  .
बास्केट  was one of twelve  महिलाओं   's  sports added to  the  NCAA championship  कार्यक्रम  for  the  1981-82  स्कूल  year  ,  as the  ncaa   सगाई   in   बैटल  with  the   संघ  for Intercollegiate Athletics for  महिलाओं  for  एकमात्र  governance  of   महिलाओं   's  collegiate sports .
the  AIAW continued  to  conduct its established championship  कार्यक्रम  in  the  same  बारह  (  और  other )  खेल  ; however , after a  साल  of  डुअल  women 's championships ,  the  NCAA prevailed ,  जबकि   the  AIAW disbanded .
Attendance and  ब्याज  in  the  Women  's   प्रभाग  I Championship have grown  over  the  सालो  ,  विशेषकर   चूंकि   2003   ,  when the final championship  खेल   थी  moved  to   the  Tuesday following the Monday men  's   चैंपियनशिप  game  .
the  women 's  चैंपियनशिप   खेल  is now the  फाइनल   overall  game of the  कॉलेज   बास्केट  season .
पहले   कि  ,  the  Women 's  फाइनल   चार  was  प्रायः  played  on   the   शुक्रवार   पहले  the Men  's  Final  चार   or   the   घंटों  before  the  men played  on  the  फाइनल  Saturday  of  the  टूर्नामेंट   .
the  final was usually played the  संडे   दोपहर   following  the  मेन   's  Final Four .
The  टूर्नामेंट   कोष्ठक  is made up of  champions  from each Division I  सम्मेलन   ,  which  प्राप्त  automatic  बोलियों   .
the   बाकी  slots are  at-large  bids , with teams chosen by  an  NCAA selection  कमेटी   .
The selection process and  टूर्नामेंट   seedings   हैं  based on several factors , including team  rankings  , win-loss records  और  Ratings  प्रतिशत  Index  (  RPI )  आंकड़ा  .
नापसंद  the  मेन   's   टूर्नामेंट   ,   वहीँ  are only 32  at-large   बोलियों  ( as  of  the next tournament  in  2014 ) , and no play-in  खेल  .
the   महिलाओं  's tournament ,  जैसे  the  मेन  's  ,  is staged in  a   सिंगल   विलोपन  format , and  is   भाग   of  the media  और  public frenzy  ज्ञात  colloquially  as  March  दीवानगी  or  the   बिग   नृत्य  .
सब  63 games  have   महरूम  broadcast  on  television since 2003 on ESPN  और  ESPN2 .
Similar  to  the pre-2011 men 's tournament  कवरेज  on CBS , local teams  हैं  shown  on   प्रत्येक   चैनल  when available  ,   साथ   ``  whip-around  ''  coverage  designed   to   शोकेस  the  सबसे   प्रतिस्पर्धी   प्रतियोगिताओं   in   the  rest  of  the country  .
The  rosetta   स्टोन  in  the  British  संग्रहालय
The Rosetta Stone is an  प्राचीन   मिश्र  granodiorite stele inscribed  साथ   a  decree  जारी  at Memphis  in  196  bc   on   निमित्त  of King  टॉलेमी  V .
The  डिक्री  appears in  तीन  scripts : the  अपर   टेक्स्ट   is  Ancient Egyptian  चित्रलिपि  , the  मध्य   portion  Demotic script  ,   और  the  न्यूनतम   प्राचीन  Greek .
Because it presents  essentially   the  same  टेक्स्ट   in   सब  three scripts ( with  कुछ   नाबालिग  differences between them  )   ,   it   provided  the key  to  the  आधुनिक  understanding  of  Egyptian hieroglyphs  .
Originally displayed  भीतर  a temple ,  the  stone was probably moved during  the   जल्दी  Christian  or   मध्यकालीन  period and eventually  प्रयुक्त   as   भवन   सामग्री   in   the  construction of Fort Julien near the  कस्बा  of Rashid  (  Rosetta ) in the  nile  Delta  .
It was rediscovered there in  1799  by a soldier ,  pierre-françois  Bouchard ,  of   the   फ्रेंच  expedition to Egypt .
as  the first  प्राचीन  Egyptian bilingual  टेक्स्ट  recovered in modern times  ,  the Rosetta Stone aroused  फैली  public  ब्याज   साथ  its potential to  decipher   इस   hitherto   untranslated   प्राचीन   भाषा   .
Lithographic copies  और   प्लास्टर  casts  began  circulating among European museums  और   विद्वानों   .
meanwhile   ,   अंग्रेजों   सैनिकों  defeated  the  French in Egypt  in   1801  , and  the  original stone  आए  into British possession under the Capitulation of  एलेक्जेंड्रिया   .
Transported to London ,  it  has been on  पब्लिक   प्रदर्शक  at  the  British Museum since 1802  .
It is the  most-visited  object in  the  British Museum .
Ever since its rediscovery , the stone has been  the  focus  of  nationalist rivalries , including its transfer  इससे   फ्रेंच  to British  कब्ज़ा  during the  napoleonic  Wars  ,  a long-running  विवाद  over the relative  मान  of  यंग  's  और   champollion  's  योगदान   to  the  decipherment   ,  and since 2003 ,  मांगे  for  the   स्टोन  's return to Egypt .
पढ़ाई   of  the  डिक्री  was already under  रास्ता  as  the   पहला  full  अनुवाद   of   the   यूनानी   टेक्स्ट  appeared in 1803 .
It  थी   20   सालो  ,  however  , before  the  transliteration of the Egyptian scripts  थी   घोषित  by Jean-François  champollion  in Paris  in  1822 ; it took  longer  still  पहले  scholars were  समर्थ   to   पढ़ा   प्राचीन  Egyptian  inscriptions  and literature  confidently   .
प्रमुख  advances  in  the  डिकोडिंग   यहूद   :   मान्यता   कि  the stone  offered   तीन  versions of the same text (  1799  ) ;  कि   the   demotic  text  प्रयुक्त  phonetic  वर्ण   to   वर्तनी  foreign names ( 1802  )  ;  कि   the  hieroglyphic  टेक्स्ट  did so  as   खूब  , and  था   pervasive   similarities  to the demotic ( Thomas Young  ,   1814   )  ; and  कि   ,   in   जोड  to  होने   प्रयुक्त  for  विदेशी  names , phonetic characters  यहूद  also used to spell  देशी  Egyptian  शब्द   (  Champollion  ,  1822–1824  )  .
Two other fragmentary  नक़ल   of  the  वही  decree  यहूद   खोजा   बाद  , and several similar Egyptian  दुभाषिया   or  trilingual inscriptions  हैं  now known  ,  including  दो   थोड़ा  earlier Ptolemaic  डिक्री  (  the   डिक्री   of  Canopus in  238  BC  ,  and the  मेम्फिस  decree of Ptolemy  iv   ,   ca  .  218  BC ) .
The  rosetta  Stone is therefore no  longer   अद्वितीय  ,  लकिन  it was the  अनिवार्य   कुंजी  to modern  समझना  of Ancient Egyptian  साहित्य  and civilization  .
The term  rosetta  Stone  is   अभी  used in  अन्य   contexts  as the  नाम  for  the  essential  सुराग   to  a new field of  ज्ञान  .
Poison dart frog  (  also dart-poison frog  ,   ज़हर  frog or formerly  ज़हर   तीर  frog  )   is  the common name of a  समूह   of  frogs in the  परिवार   dendrobatidae   जिससे  are  देशी   to  Central  और   दक्षिण  America .
These species  हैं   diurnal   और  often have brightly colored bodies  .
Although all wild dendrobatids are  at  least  somewhat   विषाक्त  ,  स्तर  of  toxicity   vary  considerably from one  प्रजाति  to the  अगला   और  from one population to another  .
अनेक   प्रजाति   हैं  threatened .
These amphibians  हैं   प्रायः   पुकारा  `` dart frogs '' due to the Amerindians ' indigenous use of  उनके  to  ज़हर  the  नुस्ख़े  of  blowdarts  .
However , of over  175   प्रजाति   ,  only four  have  been documented as  होने  used for this purpose  (   curare   पौधे   हैं  more commonly  प्रयुक्त  ) , all of  जिससे  come  इससे  the  phyllobates  genus  ,  which is  characterized  by  the  relatively  विशाल   आकार   और   ऊँची  levels of toxicity of its members  .
Cajeta  is  a Mexican confection  of  thickened syrup usually made  of   sweetened  caramelised milk  .
According to  शेफ़  Rick  bayless   ,   the  name for cajeta  आए  from the Spanish phrase al punto de cajeta  ,   जिससे  means  ``   a  liquid thickened  to   the  point at which a spoon  drawn  through  the  liquid  reveals   the   नीचे  of  the   घट  in  जिससे  it  is   होने   पकाया  '' .
another   परिकल्पना  is that  it  takes its name from the small wooden boxes  in   जिससे  it  थी  traditionally packed .
मैक्सिकन  cajeta  is  considered a specialty  of   the  city of  celaya   in  the state of Guanajuato ,  हालांकि  it is also  उत्पादित   साथ   the  traditional method  in  several towns of  the  state of  jalisco   ,  such as Mazamitla , Sayula ,  और   atotonilco  el Alto .
Cajeta is made by simmering goat 's milk  ,  or  occasionally   a  sweetened  द्रव   ,  stirring frequently , until it  becomes   बहुत  viscous  due   to  evaporation  of  water , and caramelized  .
While goat milk is the most usual  आधार   ,   अन्य   liquids  or juices may  be  used  .
In Celaya  ,  and eventually  the  rest  of  Mexico  ,  the confection  of  half goat 's  मिल्क   और  half  गाय  's  मिल्क  became known  by   the  name  cajeta  ,  लकिन   elsewhere  ,  the  milk candy  became   ज्ञात   as  leche  quemada  , dulce  de  leche ,  इत्यादि  .
it  has cousins in the many  भारतीय  milk-based sweets  जैसे  pera  और  the  मिल्क  fudge  burfi   ,   और   in  the  ओपेरा  fudge  of  the  u.S.  Cajeta  is  eaten on  इसके  own as a  मीठी  ,  as  a  स्प्रेड  or filling  लिये  breads and pastries , such  as  churros , and as a topping for  बर्फ  cream .
Certain liquors are added to special recipes  पुकारा  cajeta envinada  .
in  addition ,  cajeta  envinada  especial  is  समृद्ध   साथ  raisins ,  बादाम  ,  pecans  or  nuts  .
Often  it  is used  as  a topping for crêpes , as a sweet sauce boiled  और  softened  bas  with milk to  soak   the  crepes  ,  resulting in  a  tasty dessert  .
in  Mexico many brands  मेक   cajeta  but the most common brand is  coronado   .
It is also very  आम  to place cajeta between obleas  to  make  a  traditional Mexican dessert  .
प्रिंस   विलियम  ,  ड्यूक  of  कैम्ब्रिज  (  विलियम  Arthur  फिलिप  Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ) ,  is   the   elder  son of  चार्ल्स  ,  प्रिंस  of Wales  ,  and  डायना  , Princess of Wales  ,  and third-eldest grandchild of  महारानी  Elizabeth II and  प्रिंस   फिलिप   ,  Duke of Edinburgh .
He  is  second in the line of  उत्तराधिकार  , behind his father ,  to  the thrones  of  sixteen  स्वतंत्र   sovereign  states  ज्ञात   as  the  राष्ट्रमंडल  realms :  the  United  किंगडम   ,   कनाडा  ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  ,  नई   जीलैंड   ,  Jamaica ,  बारबाडोस   ,   the  Bahamas ,  हरा   ,   पापुआ   नई  Guinea ,  the   सुलेमान   आइलैंड्स  , Tuvalu  ,  Saint Lucia ,  संत  Vincent and  the   grenadines  , Belize  ,  Antigua and Barbuda  ,  and Saint Kitts and  नेविस  .
Prince William was  शिक्षित   at  four  स्कूलों  in  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom  और  obtained a  उपाधि  from  the  University  of  St  एंड्रयूज  .
He spent parts  of   a  gap  साल   in   चिली  , Belize , Tanzania , and Kenya  जहाँ  he  रै  lived and holidayed several times .
प्रिंस  William  रै  also taken  kiswahili  studies at universities in Kenya  और  Tanzania  .
he  was commissioned  as   a   लेफ्टिनेंट   in  the Blues  और   रॉयल्स  Regiment of the  household  Cavalry —serving  साथ   उसके  brother Prince  हैरी   —and  , two years later ,  अर्जित  his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell .
In 2009  ,  he transferred to  the   royal  Air  फ़ोर्स  , was promoted  to  Flight Lieutenant and underwent helicopter flying training  in  order to become a  full-time  pilot  साथ   the  Search  और  Rescue  फ़ोर्स   .
in  2010 ,  he   समाप्त   उसके   सामान्य  and special-to-type helicopter  प्रशिक्षण  and went  on  to RAF Valley  on  No  .  22  स्क्वाड्रन   performing  co-pilot duties on  फलक  a Sea  किंग  search and rescue  हेलीकाप्टर  .
Prince William  शादीशुदा   उसके   longtime   गर्लफ्रेंड  , Catherine  मिडलटन  , on  29   अप्रैल  2011 at Westminster Abbey  .
Hours prior to his  विवाह   ,  Prince William was  निर्मित  Duke  of  Cambridge , Earl  of  Strathearn  ,   और   सामन्त  Carrickfergus .
Mali is a  बहुभाषी  country .
the  languages  बोला   वहीँ  reflect ancient settlement patterns , migrations  ,   और   इसके   long  history  .
Ethnologue  रिश्तो   50  languages  .
of   ये  ,  फ्रेंच   is  the  आधिकारिक  language  और   bambara  is the  सबसे  widely  बोला  .
Altogether 13 of  the   स्वदेशी   भाषाएं  of  माली  have the legal status  of   नेशनल   भाषा  .
चिह्न  in  फ्रेंच  ,  at  a monument  in   बमाको   .
{  {  Infobox  अवकाश
Chinese  नई  Year
9 –  12  February (  वियतनाम  )
Rogers  भवन  , the headquarters of  रोजर्स  Communications
रोजर्स  Communications Inc. is  a   diversified   पब्लिक  Canadian communications and media company .
It is  विशेषकर  in the field of wireless communications  ,  cable  टेलीविज़न   ,   टेलीफोन  , and Internet connectivity  साथ  significant  अतिरिक्त  telecommunications and mass media  एसेट  .
the  company is headquartered  in   the   रोजर्स   भवन   in   टोरंटो  , Ontario .
The  कम्पनी   दावा  the heritage  of   the  Rogers Vacuum Tube  कम्पनी  , founded  in   1925  by Edward  रोजर्स   ,   जिससे   प्रारंभ   the  CFRB radio station  in  Toronto  ,  which  थी  later  acquired   by   बाहर  interests  .
The present enterprise dates  to   1960  , when  रोजर्स  '  बेटे   ,  Ted  रोजर्स  , founded Rogers Radio  प्रसारण   ltd  .
कि   कम्पनी   acquired   chfi   कि   साल   ,  as  खूब   as  Aldred-Rogers  प्रसारण   ,   a   साझेदारी  with  जोएल   aldred  which helped launch CFTO in  1961   .
रोजर्स   बाद  bought out  aldred  and started the current  केबल   और   बेतार  operations , known  as   रोजर्स   cablesystems   ltd  .
The  मुख्य  competitor to the company  is  Bell Canada , which has a similarly extensive portfolio  of  radio  और  television media assets , as well as  बेतार  , television  वितरण  ,  और  telephone services  ,  particularly in Eastern  और  Central  कनाडा   ;  the two companies  हैं  often  देखी   as   having  a duopoly  on   संचार  services in  उनके   regions  .
however  ,  the  company also competes nationally  साथ   telus  for wireless services ,  और  primarily indirectly with Shaw Communications for television  सेवा   .
The  कम्पनी  also competes with  a  number of  अन्य  media companies  in  the  प्रसारण   उद्योग  .
The Internet is a  वैश्विक  system  of   interconnected   कंप्यूटर  networks  कि   उपयोग   the  standard Internet  प्रोटोकॉल   सुइट  (  tcp/ip   )   to  serve  अरबों  of users  विश्वव्यापी  .
It  is  a network  of  networks that  consists   of   लाखो   of  private ,  पब्लिक  , academic , business ,  और   सरकारी  networks ,  of  local to global scope  ,  that are  linked  by  a  broad array  of   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   ,   बेतार   और   ऑप्टिकल   नेटवर्किंग   technologies   .
The Internet carries an extensive range of information  संसाधन   और   सेवाएं   ,   ऐसे   as  the  inter-linked   हाइपरटेक्स्ट   दस्तावेज़   of   the  World Wide Web ( WWW  )  and  the  infrastructure  to   support  email  .
सबसे  traditional  संचार  media including  टेलीफोन   ,   म्यूज़िक  , film , and  टेलीविज़न  are  होने  reshaped or redefined by the Internet  ,  giving  जनम   to  new services  ऐसे  as voice  over   अंतरजाल  Protocol (  voip   )  and Internet Protocol television (  iptv   )   .
Newspaper ,  किताब  and  अन्य  print publishing  हैं   adapting  to  वेब  site technology ,  or  are  reshaped  into blogging  और   वेब   फ़ीड्स  .
The  अंतरजाल   रै  enabled  और  accelerated  नई  forms of human  interactions  through instant messaging , Internet  forums  ,  और  social networking  .
Online shopping  रै  boomed both for major  खुदरा  outlets and  छोटी  artisans and traders  .
business-to-business  and  वित्तीय   सेवाएं   on   the  Internet  affect  supply chains across entire industries .
The  origins   of  the Internet  पहुँचें  back to research commissioned  by  the United  राज्य  government in  the  1960s to  निर्माण   मजबूत  ,  fault-tolerant   संचार  via  कंप्यूटर  networks .
The funding of a  नई   u.S.   रीढ़  by the  नेशनल   विज्ञान   न्यास  in  the  1980s , as well as private  funding  for other  वाणिज्यिक  backbones ,  led   to  worldwide  भागीदारी  in the development of new networking technologies  ,   और  the merger  of   अनेक  networks  .
the   व्यावसायीकरण  of what was  by  the 1990s  an   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  network  resulted  in  इसके   popularization  and incorporation into virtually every  पहलू   of  modern  इंसान  life .
,  अधिक   than   2.4   अरब  people—over a  तीसरा  of  the   संसार   's  human population  —have  used the  सेवाएं   of  the Internet  ;  approximately  100   टाइम्स  more people  than  were  using  it in  1995   ,  when it  थी  mostly  प्रयुक्त   by  tech-savvy middle and upper  क्लास  people  in   the  United  राज्य  and several other countries .
The Internet has no  centralized  governance in either technological implementation or policies  लिये  access and usage ;  प्रत्येक  constituent network sets its  अपना   नीतियों  .
तभी   the   overreaching  definitions of  the   दो  principal name  स्पेसेस  in the Internet ,  the  Internet  प्रोटोकॉल   पता   स्पेस   और  the  डोमेन  Name  प्रणाली  ,  हैं  directed by  a   maintainer  organization  ,  the Internet  निगम  for Assigned Names and  संख्याएँ  (  icann  )  .
The  तकनीकी  underpinning  और   मानकीकरण  of the core protocols (  ipv4   और   ipv6  )  is  an activity of the Internet Engineering Task Force ( IETF  )  , a non-profit organization  of  loosely affiliated international  भागीदार  that anyone  may   संबद्ध  with by contributing  तकनीकी   विशेषज्ञता   .
The  2006   शीत  Olympics ,  officially   ज्ञात  as the XX Olympic Winter Games ,  थी   a  winter  multi-sport   इवेंट  which was celebrated  in   टोरीनो  ,  इटली   इससे  February 10 ,  2006   ,  through  फ़रवरी  26 ,  2006   .
इस   चिह्नित  the  दूसरी  time  इटली  hosted the  ओलम्पिक   शीत  Games ,  the   पहला  being the VII  ओलम्पिक  Winter  खेल  in Cortina d'Ampezzo  in   1956  .
इटली   भी   hosted  the  खेल  of  the  XVII  ओलंपियाड  in  रोम  in 1960 .
Turin was  चयनित   as  the host  नगर  for the 2006  खेल   in  1999 .
The  आधिकारिक  logo  प्रदर्शित   the   नाम   ``  Torino ''  ,  the Italian name of the city ;  the  city  is  known as ``  टोरीनो  '' in both  अंग्रेज़ी   और   the  local  परंपरागत   भाषा  , Piedmontese .
the  Olympic  mascots   of   टोरिनो   2006  were Neve  (   ``  snow  ''   in  Italian  )  , a female  स्नोबॉल  , and  gliz  , a  पुरूष  ice cube  .
The  आधिकारिक   motto  of  the   xx   ओलम्पिक   शीत   खेल  was `` Passion lives  यहाँ   ''   .
`` Help  !   ''  is  a   सोंग   by   the  Beatles that served  as   the  title song for  दोनो   the   1965   फिल्मी  and its  साउंडट्रैक  album  .
it   थी  also  released  as a  सिंगल  , and  थी  number  एक  for three weeks in both  the  United States and  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom .
``  Help  !   ''  was  लिखा   primarily  by  जॉन  Lennon  ,  but  credited  to  lennon–mccartney   .
दौरान   an   इंटरव्यू   साथ  Playboy  in   1984   ,   पॉल   mccartney  stated that the title was `` out of  छटपटाहट  '' .
Poster for  the  2005 exhibition
Siegfried Bing  (   26  February  1838  – 6  सितंबर   1905  ) , who  प्रायः   दिया  his  नाम   as  S. Bing , and was  यूँ   प्रायः  referenced  erroneously   as  `` Samuel Bing ''  (  Samuel  ओटो  Bing , 1850–1905  ,  was his  bhai  ) was a German  आर्ट   डीलर  who lived in  पेरिस  as  an   वयस्क  ,  और  who helped introduce Japanese art and artworks  to   the  West and was a  फ़ैक्टर  in the  विकास  of  the  Art  देवानंद   स्टाइल  during the  लेट  nineteenth century .
Comparison  of   पुरूष   और  female  जीवन  expectancy  at  birth for countries  और   territories   as  defined  in  the  2011   सीआईए   factbook  , with  चयनित  bubbles labelled  .
the   बिंदीदार  line  corresponds  to equal female  और  male life expectancy  .
The apparent 3D  आयतन  of the bubbles  हैं   linearly   आंशिक   to  their  जनसांख्यिकी  .
इस  is a  सूची  of countries by  जीवन   प्रत्याशा  at birth .
kennewick  is a  नगर  in  benton  County  in   the   southeastern  part of the  u.S.   राज्य  of Washington , near the Hanford  नाभिकीय   साईट   .
It  is  the most populous of  the   तीन  cities  collectively   referred   to  as the  tri-cities  ( the others  होने   pasco  and Richland ) .
kennewick  is  स्तिथ   साथ   the  southwest bank of  the  Columbia  नदी   ,   विपरीत  Pasco  और  just  दक्षिण   of  the  संगम  of  the   कोलंबिया  and Yakima rivers  .
The population  थी  73,917  at   the  2010 census .
April  1  , 2012 estimates from the  वॉशिंगटन   राज्य  Office of Financial Management  put   the  city 's population at  75,160   .
The  निकटतम   वाणिज्यिक  airport  is   the   tri-cities  Airport in Pasco ,  a  regional  वाणिज्यिक  and  निजी  airport  .
Forbes  पत्रिका  named  kennewick  the  #  2  क्षेत्रफल  in the United States for job  विकास  , while  आसपास  Yakima  थी   नामित  # 1 .
The  आलेख   cites  the number of scientists  employed   by  the  प्रशांत  Northwest National Laboratory  और  area farmland  लिये   इस   आउटलुक   .
The prothrombin  समय  (  pt  )  और  its derived  उपायों  of  prothrombin  ratio  (  PR ) and international  सामान्यीकृत  ratio (  inr  )  हैं   उपायों   of  the extrinsic  pathway  of coagulation  .
This test is  भी  called ``  protime  INR  ''  and  ``  PT/INR '' .
They are  प्रयुक्त  to  determine  the clotting tendency  of  blood  ,   in  the measure of warfarin dosage , liver damage  ,  and vitamin K  औकात   .
pt  measures  कारकों   i  (  फाइब्रिनोजेन  ) ,  ii  ( prothrombin )  ,  V ,  सात  ,  और  X .
It  is  used in conjunction with  the  activated partial thromboplastin  समय  ( aPTT ) which measures  the   मूलभूत   pathway   .
`` I 'm  in  the Mood  लिये  Love '' is  a   लोकप्रिय   सोंग   .
the   म्यूज़िक   थी   लिखा   by  Jimmy  mchugh  ,  the   गीत   by  Dorothy Fields  .
the  song  थी  published  in  1935  .
It  थी   introduced  by Frances Langford  in  the  फिल्म  Every Night  at   आठ   released  that  साल  .
The  सोंग   थी  featured  in  the 1936 Our Gang  (  Little Rascals ) short  ,   the  Pinch  सिंगर   ,   सुंग  by Carl  ``  Alfalfa  ''  Switzer ,  और  in  the   1936  film Palm  स्रोतों  .
It is  प्रायः  known to be Switzer 's signature song  .
जेम्स  Moody 's saxophone  सोलो   on  a  1952  recording of this song inspired  the  song  ``  Moody  's   मनोदशा   लिये  Love  ``  .
हिप   हॉप  artist Prince Paul sampled the song as the basis for the track  ``   मनोदशा   लिये   प्रेम  '' on his album A Prince  among   चोरों  ( 1999  )  ,  साथ  Don Newkirk singing its  असली  lyrics .
the   सोंग  's title  प्रेरित  the English  शीर्षक  of Wong Kar Wai  's  movie  in   the  Mood for Love .
Cross-cultural psychology is  the   वैज्ञानिक  study of human behavior and  दिमागी   प्रक्रियाओं  , including both  उनके  variability  और  invariance ,  अंतर्गत  diverse  सांस्कृतिक  conditions  .
through  expanding research  methodologies  to  recognize  cultural  variance  in  बर्ताव  ,  भाषा  ,  और  meaning it  seeks   to  extend and develop  मनोविज्ञान   .
Since psychology as  an  academic  अनुशासन  was  विकसित  largely  in  North  अमेरिका  ,  कुछ  psychologists  became   चिंतित  that  constructs   स्वीकृत  as  सार्वभौमिक   यहूद  not  as   निश्चर   as   previously   assumed  ,  विशेषकर   चूंकि  many attempts to replicate notable experiments in  अन्य   संस्कृतियों  had varying  कामयाबी  .
चूंकि  there  हैं   सवाल  as  to   whether  theories  dealing  with  सेंट्रल  themes , such  as   affect  ,  संज्ञान   ,  conceptions of the self  ,  and issues  ऐसे   as  psychopathology , anxiety , and depression , may  कमी  external validity when  ``  exported  ''  to other cultural contexts  ,   cross-cultural   मनोविज्ञान   re-examines  them using methodologies designed to  फ़ैक्टर   in   सांस्कृतिक  differences  so   as   to  account  लिये  cultural variance .
Although some critics  have  pointed to  methodological  flaws  in  cross-cultural psychological research and  अर्जी  that  गंभीर  shortcomings in the theoretical and methodological bases  प्रयुक्त  impede rather  than  help the scientific search  लिये   सार्वभौमिक  principles in psychology , cross-cultural psychologists  हैं   turning  more to  the  study of  कैसा  differences  (  variance ) occur ,  बल्कि   than  searching  लिये   universals   in  the  स्टाइल   of  physics or  रसायन   .
In 1972 the International Association of  cross-cultural   मनोविज्ञान   (  IACCP )  थी  established .
इस  branch of psychology has continued to  विस्तार   as  there  रै   महरूम  an increasing  लोकप्रियता  of incorporating  संस्कृति  and diversity into  अध्ययन  .
cross-cultural  psychology  is   differentiated  from  सांस्कृतिक  psychology  .
the   latter  is  the  branch of psychology that holds that  इंसान  behavior is significantly influenced  by  cultural differences , meaning  कि  psychological  phenomena  can  तभी  be compared with each other  आरपार  cultures  to   a  very limited extent .
In  कंट्रास्ट   ,   cross-cultural   मनोविज्ञान   शामिल  a search  लिये   संभावित  universals in behavior and  दिमागी   प्रक्रियाओं  .
Walter J. Lonner  ,   लिखने  for Eye  on  Psi  ची  ,  रै  stated that `` cross-cultural  मनोविज्ञान  can be  विचार   of   as  a  प्रकार   शोध  methodology  ,  rather than  an   entirely   पृथक   फ़ील्ड   भीतर   मनोविज्ञान  ( 2000 ) . ''
`` Judas ''  is   a  song by American  रिकॉर्डिंग  artist  महिला   गागा   ,   इससे   उसके   दूसरी  studio  एल्बम   born  This Way  (  2011  )  .
It was released  by  Interscope Records on  अप्रैल  15  ,   2011   ,   चार   दिनों   ahead  of its  अनुसूचित   रिलीज  .
लिखा  and  उत्पादित   by  Lady Gaga  और   redone  , `` Judas  ''  is  a   नृत्य  and  इलेक्ट्रो  house song  परिचय  a woman in love with a  man  who  गद्दारी  her .
It  embodies  the incidents that  have  haunted  गागा  in  the  past , and  इसके   कोर  meaning  refers  to the negative parts of her life that she  ca  n't escape  .
Gaga  रै  further  समझाया  that the song  थी  also  परिचय  honoring one  's   भीतरी   अंधेरा   in  order to bring oneself into  the   लाइट   .
the  artwork  लिये  the single was designed by  गागा   in   microsoft  Word  .
in   spite  of a polarizing  प्रभाव  on several  धार्मिक   समूह  , the song  थी  generally well received  by  critics ,  जो  likened the song to  ``  Bad  रोमांस  `` with some noting it  चाहिए  have been  the  album  's  lead  सिंगल  .
the   सोंग   रै  a  समान   ध्वनि  to Gaga 's  पिछला  RedOne-produced  ट्रैक्स  , including  ``  Poker Face `` ,  ``  LoveGame `` , ``  ख़राब  Romance  ''  , and `` Alejandro `` .
it   contains  three  पृथक  hooks and  a   हाउस  -influenced  ब्रेक   bas   .
Gaga explained  कि  the lines  बोला   दौरान   the   विश्लेषण   बात  about  उसके   as  beyond  मोचन  , regarding the  परंपरागत  views  of   कया   a  woman should be .
`` Judas  ''  initially had a strong sales opening , but  थी  less successful commercially in  तुलना  to  गागा  's previous  singles  .
The song reached the top  टेन   of   the  charts in  सबसे   प्रमुख  music markets , and also reached  the  top  of  the charts in  दक्षिण  Korea .
a  music  वीडियो  for the song was filmed in April  2011  ,  co-directed   by  Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and  co-starring   नॉर्मन  Reedus .
It has  a   biblical   कथानक  where Reedus played  यहूदा   इस्कैरियट   और   गागा  played  मरियम   magdalene   .
The  वीडियो  portrays them  as  modern  दिन  missionaries going  to   जेरूसलम  .
It included  the  Biblical story  of   यहूदा  betraying Jesus ,  और   ended  with Gaga as  magdalene   getting  stoned to death  .
पहले   इसके   रिलीज  , the Catholic League condemned Gaga  लिये  the alleged  उपयोग  of religious  imagery   और   उसके  role in  the  video  .
However , critics  generally  praised the video , not finding any  अप्रिय   सामग्री   .
The  वीडियो   थी   मनोनीत   लिये   दो  awards at the 2011  एमटीवी  Video  म्यूज़िक  Awards .
गागा  has performed  ``   यहूदा  ''  on  a  क्रमांक  of television shows  ,  including The  ग्राहम   नॉर्टन  Show , Saturday Night  सजीव  , Good Morning  americas  `` Summer  कॉन्सर्ट  Series '' , the French  x   फ़ैक्टर   as   खूब  as on The  एलेन  DeGeneres  दिखाएँ   .
H.264/MPEG-4  भाग   10  or  avc  ( Advanced  वीडियो  Coding  )  is a  मानक  for video compression  ,   और  is currently  एक  of the most  commonly  used formats for  the   रिकॉर्डिंग   ,  compression ,  और   वितरण  of  ऊँची  definition video .
The final  drafting   कार्य  on  the  first version of  the  standard was  समाप्त  in May 2003 .
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC  is   a  block-oriented  motion-compensation   -आधारd   कोडेक  standard developed  by   the  ITU-T  वीडियो  Coding  विशेषज्ञ   समूह  ( VCEG  )  together with the  iso/iec   jtc1   चलती  Picture  विशेषज्ञ  Group  (  MPEG ) .
The  प्रोजेक्ट  partnership  प्रयत्न   is   ज्ञात  as  the  Joint  वीडियो   टोली  ( JVT )  .
the   itu-t   h.264   मानक   और  the ISO/IEC MPEG-4 AVC  मानक   (  formally , ISO/IEC 14496-10  –   mpeg-4  Part 10 , Advanced Video Coding ) are jointly  कायम   so  that  वे   have   एकसमान   तकनीकी   सामग्री  .
H.264 is perhaps best  ज्ञात  as being  एक   of  the  कोडेक  standards for Blu-ray Discs ;  सब  Blu-ray  डिस्क  players must  be  able  to  decode  h.264  .
it   is   भी   widely   प्रयुक्त   by   स्ट्रीमिंग   अंतरजाल  sources  ,  such as videos  इससे   vimeo  ,  youtube  , and the iTunes Store ,  वेब   तन्त्र   ऐसे   as   the  Adobe Flash Player and Microsoft Silverlight ,  और  also  विभिन्न  HDTV broadcasts over  स्थलीय  ( ATSC ,  isdb-t  , DVB-T or  dvb-t2   )  ,  केबल  (  dvb-c  ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ) .
Non-binding arbitration is a type  of  arbitration in which  the  arbitrator  makes  a determination of  the   अधिकारों   of  the  पार्टियों  to the  विवाद  ,  लकिन  this determination is  नहीं   बाइंडिंग  upon  उन्हें   ,   और   no  enforceable  मध्यस्थता   पुरस्कार  is issued .
the   ``  award ''  is   in   प्रभाव   an   सलाहकार  opinion of  the  arbitrator  's  view  of   the  respective  merits  of  the  parties  मामले  .
Non-binding arbitration is used  in  connection  साथ  attempts to reach  a  negotiated  उपनिवेश  .
The  भूमिका  of an  arbitrator  in  non-binding  arbitration is , on the surface ,  समान  to that of a  मध्यस्थ   in  a mediation .
however  , the  प्रिंसिपल   भेद   is   कि   whereas  a mediator will  कोशिश  to help  the  parties find  a  middle ground to compromise  at  , the arbitrator remains totally  removed  from the  उपनिवेश  process and will  तभी  give a determination of liability and ,  if   उचित  , an  indication   of  the  क्वांटम  of damages  देय  .
Subsequent to  a   non-binding  arbitration , the  पार्टियों  remain  फ़्री  to  pursue  their claims either through the  न्यायालयों  , or by way of  a  binding  मध्यस्थता   ,   हालांकि   in   अभ्यास  a  उपनिवेश  is the most  आम  outcome  .
the  award and reasoning  in  a  non-binding  arbitration  is  almost  invariably  inadmissible  in   कोई  subsequent action  in  the  न्यायालयों   or  in another arbitration  ट्रिब्यूनल   .
Non-binding  मध्यस्थता   is   utilised  mostly in  the  United States and  कनाडा  .
It is  largely   अनजान  in Europe , although in  the  United Kingdom there is a practice of  पार्टियों  who  हैं   seeking  a settlement to jointly instruct a  महारानी  's  counsel   लिये   an  opinion on the merits and  संभावित  quantum of  a   अर्जी   ,   और  then to negotiate  on   the   आधार   of  the views  expressed  in that opinion .
अगस्टाइन  Volcano is a Lava  गुम्बद  Complex on Augustine Island  in   southwestern  Cook  इनलेट   in  the Kenai Peninsula  बरो  of southcentral coastal  अलास्का  ,  दक्षिणपश्चिम  of Anchorage .
The  अलास्का   ज्वालामुखी   वेधशाला  currently rates  माउंट  Augustine as Level of Concern  रंग   कोड   ग्रीन  for aviation and  the   ज्वालामुखी  Alert  स्तर  is at  सामान्य  .
अगस्टाइन  Island  रै  a land area  of  , while West Island  ,   बस   बंद  Augustine 's  पश्चिमी  shores , has .
The island  is   बना  up mainly  of  past eruption deposits  .
Scientists  have  been able to  discern  that past  गुम्बद   पतन  has  resulted   in   विशाल   avalanches  .
A  मैप  of Belize  .
the  country of Belize has  roughly  386 km  of  coastline  ,  and has many coral reefs , cays ,  और  islands in the Caribbean  समुद्र   .
Most of these form the Belize Barrier Reef  ,  the  longest   in  the western hemisphere stemming  लगभग  .
the  reef and its islands  have  been  a  UNESCO World  विरासत   साईट   चूंकि  1996  .
The  following   is  a list of  oceanic  islands of  बेलीज़  ,  arranged  according to region  लकिन   सब   of  which  हैं  in the Caribbean Sea  .
सबसे  of the  आइलैंड्स   variate  in  स्पेलिंग   between   ``   cay   ''  and ``  caye  ''  ,   और  also use the  स्पेनी  ``  cayo   ''  .
River islands have  नहीं  been listed  .
Drive  अक्षर  Access  (   dla   )   is  a  discontinued  commercial packet  लिखने  application for the Microsoft Windows  ऑपरेटिंग  system that allows optical disc data  भंडार  devices  to  be used in a  manner  similar  to  floppy  डिस्क   .
dla  is a  पैकेट   लिखने  technology for CD  और  DVD media  कि  uses the UDF  संचिका  system .
DLA  is  not  संगत   साथ  Windows Vista  और  newer , although a  पैच  exists  to   फिक्स  this issue under  खिड़कियाँ   विस्टा  .
roxio  Burn  थी   introduced   on  April  30   ,   2009  .
as  a  बदलना   लिये  DLA  ,   it  remedies compatibility issues  अंतरजाल  Explorer 8 .
Alpha Rex Emmanuel  humbard  (  अगस्त  13 ,  1919  – September 21 ,  2007  )  थी  a  well-known   अमरीकी  television evangelist  जिनकी  Cathedral of Tomorrow show was shown  on  over  600  stations at the peak  of   इसके  popularity .
असीमित  is a 2011  अमरीकी  thriller  फिल्मी   निर्देशित   by  Neil Burger and starring  ब्राडली  Cooper , Abbie  cornish  ,  और  Robert  de  Niro  .
it  is based on  the   2001  novel  the  Dark Fields by Alan  glynn   साथ  the screenplay  by   लेस्ली   डिक्सन  .
Alaska (  )  is a  राज्य   in   the  United  राज्य   ,  situated in the northwest extremity of the  उत्तर  American  महाद्वीप  , with  the  international  boundary   साथ  Canada to the east  ,   the   आर्कटिक  Ocean to the  उत्तर  ,  और   the  Pacific  समंदर  to  the   वेस्ट   और   दक्षिण  ,  साथ   रूस  further west  आरपार  the Bering Strait .
Alaska is the  largest  state in the  संयुक्त  States  by   क्षेत्रफल   ,   the  4th least populous and  the  least  densely   आबादी   of  the  50  United States .
Approximately half  of  Alaska  's  731,449  निवासियों   सजीव   भीतर  the Anchorage metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  .
अलास्का  's  अर्थव्यवस्था  is dominated by  the   आयल  , natural gas  ,  and  फ़िशिंग   उद्योग   ;   it   रै   ये   संसाधन  in abundance .
Alaska was  खरीदा  from Russia on March 30  ,   1867  ,  लिये  $  7.2  million ( $ adjusted for inflation  )   at   लगभग  two  सेंट   प्रति  acre (  $  4.74/km2 ) .
The land went  through  several administrative  परिवर्तन   पहले  becoming an  व्यवस्थित  (  or   incorporated  )  territory  on  may  11 , 1912 , and  the   49th   राज्य  of the  u.S.   on  January 3 ,  1959   .
The name `` Alaska  ''   (   аляска  ) was already  introduced  in the  रूसी  colonial  काल  , when it  थी  used only for the peninsula and  is  derived from the  aleut  alaxsxaq , meaning  ``  the mainland '' or  ,  more  वस्तुतः  ,  ``   the   ऑब्जेक्ट  towards which  the   कार्रवाई   of   the  sea  is   निर्देशित  ''  .
It  is  also  ज्ञात   as   alyeska  , the  ``   ग्रेट   जमीन  '' ,  an  Aleut  शब्द  derived from  the   वही  root .
Nelson Mandela Metropolitan  विश्वविद्यालयों   (   nmmu  ) is a South African  tertiary  education  संस्था   साथ   इसके   प्रमुख   प्रशासन   in   the   तटीय  city  of   बंदरगाहों  Elizabeth .
A merging of  तीन  institutions  संस्थापित   nmmu  in January  2005  but its  इतिहास   तिथियाँ  back  to  1882 with  the  foundation of  बंदरगाहों   एलिज़ाबेथ  Art School .
the   विश्वविद्यालयों   draws  international students  इससे  all over  the  world .
There  हैं  over  3000   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  students  और  include students  इससे   the  United  राज्य  , France  ,  China  ,  Germany  ,  Belgium ,  डेनमार्क  ,  फिनलैंड  ,  नीदरलैंड्स   ,   नार्वे  ,  स्वीडन  , United  किंगडम   और  many other countries .
nmmu   is   a  comprehensive  विश्वविद्यालयों  offering professional  और  vocational training .
The University has six campuses  -   पाँच  in  बंदरगाहों   एलिज़ाबेथ  and  एक  in George .
the  main campus is the  दक्षिण  Campus .
Students  at   nmmu   can  study towards  diplomas  and degrees up to  और   सहित  doctoral  स्तर  qualifications .
A number of  पाठ्यक्रम   शामिल  workplace  अनुभव  as  भाग  of  the   curriculum   .
CoverGirl is  an  American  कॉस्मेटिक्स  brand founded in Maryland , by  the   noxzema  Chemical  कम्पनी   (   बाद   पुकारा   noxell   )   और   acquired   by  Procter & Gamble in 1989 .
the  Noxell  कम्पनी  advertised this cosmetics line  by  allowing  ``  cover  लड़कियों   ''  ,  फ़ैशन   मॉडल  who  appear  on  the  front cover  of  women  's   मैगज़ीन   ,  to  पहनें   इसके   उत्पाद  .
CoverGirl makes up for  कमी  of  सीधा  individual  ग्राहक  service by  providing  a wide variety  of  cosmetics available at  उचित  prices  .
On  the  Origin of Species  ,  published on 24  नवम्बर   1859   ,  is a work of scientific literature  by  Charles  डार्विन   जिससे   is  considered  to   be   the   न्यास   of  evolutionary  जीवविज्ञान   .
Its  पूरा  title was On  the   उत्पत्ति  of Species  by   अर्थात्  of  प्राकृतिक   चयन  ,  or  the  संरक्षण  of  favoured   दौड़  in the Struggle for Life .
लिये   the  sixth edition of 1872 , the short title  थी  changed to The Origin of  प्रजाति  .
डार्विन  's book  introduced  the  वैज्ञानिक   सिद्धान्त   कि   populations  evolve  over  the course of  पीढियां  through a  प्रक्रम   of  natural  चयन  .
It  प्रस्तुत   a   देह   of   प्रमाण   कि  the  विविधता  of  जीवन   arose   by  common  descent   through  a  branching   पैटर्न  of evolution  .
डार्विन  included evidence  कि   he  had gathered  on   the  Beagle expedition  in  the 1830s  और  his subsequent findings  इससे  research ,  पत्राचार  , and  experimentation  .
विभिन्न  evolutionary ideas had already  महरूम   प्रस्तावित  to  बताइये  new  निष्कर्षों  in biology .
वहीँ  was  growing   support  for such ideas among  dissident   anatomists   और  the general public , but  दौरान   the   पहला  half  of  the 19th century  the   अंग्रेज़ी  scientific  स्थापना  was closely tied  to  the Church  of  England , while science was part  of  natural theology  .
Ideas about  the  transmutation of  प्रजाति   यहूद   विवादास्पद  as they conflicted with the beliefs that species were unchanging parts of  a   designed   पदानुक्रम  and that humans were  अद्वितीय  , unrelated to  अन्य  animals  .
the  political  और  theological implications  यहूद  intensely  debated  , but  transmutation   थी  not  स्वीकृत   by   the   वैज्ञानिक   मुख्यधारा  .
The  किताब  was  लिखा  for  non-specialist  readers and  आकर्षित   फैली   ब्याज   upon  its  प्रकाशन  .
as   डार्विन  was  an  eminent scientist  ,  his findings were taken seriously and the evidence he presented generated scientific  ,  philosophical , and  धार्मिक  discussion .
The debate over the book contributed to the campaign by T.H .  हक्स्ले  and his  fellow  members of  the   x   क्लबों   to  secularise science  by   promoting   वैज्ञानिक   naturalism   .
Within two  दशकों   वहीँ  was widespread scientific agreement  कि  evolution , with a branching pattern  of   आम   descent  ,  था  occurred  ,  but  वैज्ञानिकों  were  slow  to give  प्राकृतिक  selection the significance  कि   डार्विन   विचार  appropriate .
दौरान  the ``  ग्रहण   of   डार्विनवाद  `` from the 1880s to  the  1930s  ,   विभिन्न  other  mechanisms  of evolution  यहूद   दिए  more  क्रेडिट   .
साथ  the development of  the  modern evolutionary  संश्लेषण   in  the 1930s  और  1940s  ,  Darwin 's concept of  विकासवादी  adaptation through natural selection became central to modern  विकासवादी  theory , now the  unifying   अवधारणा  of the  जीवन   sciences  .
चार्ल्स  Dillon ``  केसी  ''  स्टेंगल  ( ;  जुलाई   30  ,  1890  – September  29  ,  1975  ) , nicknamed `` The Old Perfessor ''  ,   थी   an   अमरीकी  Major League  बेसबॉल   outfielder   और  manager  .
He was elected to  the   बेसबॉल  Hall of  कीर्ति   in  .
Stengel was born in  कान्सास   नगर   ,  Missouri ,  और   originally  nicknamed  ``   डच   ''   ,  a common nickname  at  that time for Americans of German ancestry .
बाद  his major  लीग  career began  ,   he   acquired   the   उपनाम  `` Casey  ''   ,   जिससे  originally  आए   इससे   the   आद्याक्षर   of  his hometown  (  ``  K.  C.  ''   )  , which evolved  into  ``  केसी  '' , influenced by  the   चौड़ी   लोकप्रियता   of  the poem  केसी  at  the   चमगादड़  .
in   the  1950s , sportswriters  उतावले   उसे  with yet  another  nickname  ,  `` The  बूढ़ा  Professor  ''  (  or   ``  Perfessor ''  )  , for his  शार्प  wit and his ability  to   बात   at   लंबाई  on anything  बेसबॉल  -related .
हालांकि  his  बेसबॉल  career  spanned   a   क्रमांक  of  टीमों  and  शहरों   ,  he is primarily associated with  क्लब  in New  यॉर्क  City  .
Between playing and managing  ,   he  is the only  man   to  have  worn  four  of   नई  York 's  प्रमुख  league clubs  '   वर्दी  .
He was the first  of   चार   मेन   (  through the season  )   to  manage  दोनो  the New York Yankees  और  New York Mets  ;  Yogi Berra , Dallas  ग्रीन   ,  and  जो  Torre are  the   अन्य  .
Like  टोरेस   ,   he  also managed the  braves  and the Dodgers  .
he  ended his baseball  करियर  as the  beloved  manager  लिये  the  तब   विस्तार   नई  York  मेट्स  ,  जिससे  won over  the  hearts  of  New York partly due to the unique  अक्षर  of  उनके   दिग्गज  leader  .
June ( ) is the  छठे  month  of  the  साल   in   the  Julian and  gregorian   पंचांग  and  एक   of  the four months  साथ   a  length  of  30 days  .
Ovid provides two etymologies  लिये  June  's   नाम  in his  कविता  concerning  the   महीने   हकदार  the  fasti  .
the   पहला  is that the month  is  named  बाद  the Roman goddess  juno   ,  wife of  बृहस्पति  and equivalent  to   the   यूनानी  goddess Hera  ;  the  दूसरी  is that the name  आता  from  the   लैटिन  word iuniores ,  अर्थ  `` younger ones , ''  as  opposed  to  maiores  (  `` elders '' ) for which  the   preceding   माह  May may  be   नामित  ( Fasti VI.1–88 ) .
देखिए   :  Months in  विभिन्न   पंचांग  also called  the  season  of   the  June is  the   माह  with the longest  daylight   घंटों   of  the year  in   the   उत्तरी  Hemisphere and the  shortest  daylight  घंटों  of  the   साल   in   the  Southern Hemisphere .
जून   in  the Northern  गोलार्ध  is  the   मौसमी  equivalent to December  in   the  Southern  गोलार्ध  and vice versa .
In the Northern  गोलार्ध   ,   the  beginning  of  the  meteorological   गर्मियाँ  is  1  June .
in   the   दक्षिणी   गोलार्ध   ,  the  शुरूआत  of  the  meteorological  शीत   is   1  June  .
At  the   प्रारंभ  of June ,  the  sun rises in the  नक्षत्र  of  वृष  ;  at  the end of  जून   ,   the  sun  उदय   in   the   नक्षत्र  of  मिथुन   .
However  ,   due  to the precession of the equinoxes  ,   जून  begins with the sun  in   the   astrological   चिह्न  of  मिथुन  , and  ends  with the  सूर्य  in the astrological  चिह्न  of Cancer .
June  is   ज्ञात  for  the  large number of marriages  कि  occur  over   the  course of the month  .
according  to one  etymology  , June is  नामित   बाद  Juno  (  Hera )  .
Juno  थी  the  देवी   of   विवाह  and a married couple 's household  ,   so  some  consider  it  शुभ   लक   to   be  married in  इस  month  .
According  to   another  etymology provided  by   the  Roman  कवि  Ovid , June  is  named  लिये   the   iuniores  ,  लैटिन   लिये  `` young people '' (  fasti  VI.88 )  और   कि   the   माह   of   may  is named for  the   maiores  ,  लैटिन  for ``  बड़ो  '' .
in   आइसलैंड  , folklore says  कि  if you bathe  नग्न  in the morning dew on the  morning  of  जून  24 , you are  supposed  to  रखना   वृद्धावस्था   at  bay for  longer   .
a  constitution is  a  set of fundamental principles  or   स्थापित   precedents  according  to  which  a  state or  अन्य   संगठन   is  governed .
These rules together make up , i.e  .   constitute   ,   कया   the  entity is  .
When these principles are written down  into   a  single document or  नियत  of  विधिक  documents , those documents may  be   कहा  to embody a  लिखा   संविधान  ;  if   वे   हैं   लिखा  down  in   a  single comprehensive  दस्तावेज़   ,  it  is  said to  embody  a codified constitution .
Constitutions concern different levels of organizations  ,  from  sovereign  states  to  companies  और   unincorporated  associations  .
A  सन्धि   जिससे   establishes  an international organization is  भी  its constitution , in that it would define how that organization is constituted  .
Within states ,  whether  sovereign or federated , a  संविधान  defines the  सिद्धान्त   upon  which the  राज्य   is  based , the procedure in which  कानून  are made  और  by  जिसको  .
कुछ  constitutions  ,  especially  संहिताबद्ध   constitutions   ,   भी  act  as   limiters  of state power ,  by  establishing  लाइनों   जिससे   a  state 's rulers can not cross ,  ऐसे   as  fundamental rights .
George Washington  at   संवैधानिक   सम्मेलन   of   1787  ,  हस्ताक्षर   of   u.S.  Constitution  .
the   संविधान   of  India  is  the  longest   लिखा  constitution of  कोई  sovereign  देश  in  the   संसार   ,  containing  448   आलेख  ,  12  schedules and 100 amendments  ,   साथ   117,369  words in its English language  संस्करण  , while the  संयुक्त  States  संविधान  is the  shortest  written constitution ,  at   7   आलेख  and 27 amendments .
Ron Diftler  (   बाएँ  )  ,   नासा  Robonaut  मैनेजर  assisting in  a  Robonaut familiarization training session  in   the   स्पेस  Environment  सिमुलेशन  Laboratory at  नासा   's  Johnson Space  बीच   .
अभियान्त्रिकी   प्रबन्धन   is  a  specialized   रूप   of   प्रबन्धन  that is concerned with the application  of   अभियान्त्रिकी   सिद्धान्त  to business practice .
Engineering management  is  a  करियर   कि   brings  together the  technological  problem-solving  savvy  of  अभियान्त्रिकी  and the organizational , administrative  ,  and  नियोजन  abilities  of   प्रबन्धन   in   अनुक्रम   to  oversee  जटिल  enterprises from conception to  पूर्णता   .
उदाहरण  areas of  अभियान्त्रिकी   हैं   उत्पाद   विकास  , manufacturing , construction  ,   डिज़ाइन  engineering , industrial engineering ,  प्रौद्योगिकी   ,   उत्पादन   ,   or  any  अन्य  field  कि   employs  personnel  जो  perform an  अभियान्त्रिकी  function .
कामयाब   अभियान्त्रिकी  managers typically  आवश्यकता   प्रशिक्षण   और  experience in business and  अभियान्त्रिकी  .
technically  inept  प्रबंधक   tend  to be deprived of  support  by  उनके   तकनीकी   टोली  ,  और   non-commercial  managers  tend  to  कमी  commercial acumen to deliver  in  a market economy .
Largely ,  अभियान्त्रिकी   प्रबंधक  manage  इंजीनियर्स  who are driven by non-entrepreneurial thinking  ,   यूँ   आवश्यकता   the   जरुरी   लोगों  skills to coach ,  mentor  and  motivate   तकनीकी  professionals  .
Engineering  पेशेवर  joining manufacturing companies sometimes become  अभियान्त्रिकी   प्रबंधक   by  default after  a  period  of  time  .
They are required to learn how to  मैनेज  once  वे  are  on  the job  ,   हालांकि   इस  is  प्रायः   an   अप्रभावी   रास्ता  to  develop  managerial abilities  .
In an  बीमे   नीति  ,  the  deductible is the  राशि  of expenses that must  be  paid  आउट  of pocket  पहले  an insurer will pay  कोई   खर्च  .
in  general  उपयोग  , the  पद  deductible may  be   प्रयुक्त   to  describe one  of  several types  of  clauses  (  see below ) that are used by  बीमे  companies as a  दहलीज   लिये   नीति  payments .
Deductibles are typically  प्रयुक्त  to  deter  the  विशाल   क्रमांक  of  नगण्य  claims that a  उपभोक्ता   can  be reasonably expected  to  bear the cost of .
By restricting its coverage to events  कि  are  significant  enough  to  incur large  लागत  ,  the   बीमे   कड़   expects   to  pay  आउट   थोड़ा  smaller amounts much less frequently ,  रूष्ट   much  higher savings  .
As a  परिणाम  ,  बीमे  premiums are typically  सस्ता   जब   वे  involve higher deductibles .
Deductibles  हैं   सामान्यतः  provided as  clauses   in  an  बीमे  policy that dictate how  much  of an  insurance-covered  expense  is   borne  by the  policyholder  .
वे  are normally quoted as a fixed  मात्रा   और   is   a   भाग  of  सबसे   नीतियों  covering  नुकसान   to  the  नीति   होल्डर  .
The insurer then becomes liable  लिये  claimable  खर्च  that exceed this amount ( subject to  the   अधिकतम  sum claimable indicated in the  अनुबंध  )  .
Depending  on   the  policy ,  the  deductible  may   लागू   प्रति  covered incident , or  प्रति   साल  .
लिये  policies where  incidences   हैं  not easy  to  delimit ( for example health insurance ) , the  deductible   is  typically applied  प्रति   साल   .
Several  deductibles  can be set  by  the insurer based on  the  cause  of  the  अर्जी  .
For example , a single  आवास   बीमे   नीति   may  contain multiple deductible amounts  लिये  loss  or   क्षति  arising  इससे   चोरी  , fire , natural  calamities  ,  निकासी   इत्यादि   .
वहीँ   हैं  also deductible reimbursement programs that reimburse  a   deductible  in  the  event of  an   स्वचालित   ,  home , boat/yacht or  स्वास्थ्य   बीमे  claim .
an  invoice or  विधेयक   is   a   वाणिज्यिक   दस्तावेज़  issued by a seller to  a  buyer ,  indicating   the  products , quantities  ,   और  agreed prices for products or services the seller  रै   provided  the buyer  .
an  invoice  indicates   the  sale transaction only .
Payment terms  हैं   स्वतंत्र  of  the  invoice and are negotiated  by   the   खरीदार  and the seller  .
Payment terms  हैं  usually included on the invoice  .
the  buyer could have  already   सशुल्क   लिये  the products or  सेवाएं  listed  on   the  invoice .
Buyer  can  also have a maximum number of days in  जिससे   to  pay for  ये  goods and is sometimes offered a discount if paid  पहले  the due date .
In  the   rental  industry , an  चालान   जरूर  include a specific  सन्दर्भ   to  the duration of the time  होने   billed   ,  so in addition  to  quantity , price and  छूट  the invoicing  राशि  is  भी   आधारित   on  duration  .
generally  each  लकीर  of a rental invoice  होगा  refer  to  the actual hours  ,  days , weeks  ,   महीने  ,  etc.  , being  billed   .
From the  पाइंट   of  view of a seller ,  an  invoice is  a  sales invoice  .
इससे  the point of  दृश्य   of   a  buyer , an invoice is  a  purchase invoice  .
the  document  indicates   the  buyer and seller ,  लकिन  the term invoice indicates  धन   is   owed   or  owing .
In English , the  कॉन्टेक्स्ट   of   the   पद   चालान  is usually used to clarify its meaning ,  ऐसे  as  ``   we   भेजा  them an invoice  ''   (  they owe us  धन   )  or  ``   we   प्राप्त  an invoice from  उन्हें   ''   (   we   owe   उन्हें  money ) .
the  right main bronchus ( or right primary bronchus , or right principal bronchus )  is  a  bronchus   of   the   respiratory  system .
It is wider  ,   shorter  ,  और   अधिक  vertical in  दिशा  than  the  left .
it  is about 2.5  cm  long  ,   और  enters the right lung nearly opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra  .
The azygos vein  arches  over it  इससे   पीछे   ;   और  the right pulmonary  धमनी  lies at  पहला   नीचे  and then  in   सामने   of  it .
About  2   cm   इससे   इसके  commencement  it  gives off  a  branch  to   the  upper lobe of the  सही   फेफड़ों  .
इस  is termed the eparterial branch  of  the  bronchus   ,  because it arises above the  सही   pulmonary  artery .
The bronchus  अभी   गुजरता  below the  धमनी  ,  और   is   ज्ञात   as  the hyparterial branch ;  it  divides into two branches for the middle  और  lower lobes  .
If a foreign  देह  in the airway  गुजरता   through   the  trachea ,  it  will  सबसे   संभावित  enter the  सही  main bronchus  बजाय  of the  बाएँ  ,  due   to  the  straighter  alignment of  the  right bronchus to the  श्वासनली  .
स्क्वैश  is a  racquet  sport played by  दो  (  singles  )  or   चार  players (  युगल  ) in a  four-walled  court with a small  ,  hollow rubber  बॉल  .
The players must alternate  in   striking  the  बॉल  with  उनके   racquet   और   hit  the  बॉल  onto the playable  सतहों  of the four walls of the court .
The  खेल  was formerly  पुकारा  squash  racquets   ,  a reference  to  the `` squashable '' soft  बॉल  used in the game ( compared  साथ  the fatter ball  प्रयुक्त   in   इसके   जनक  game  racquets  or  rackets  )  .
Squash is recognized by  the  IOC and  समर्थक  are lobbying for its  incorporation   in   a   भविष्य  Olympic  कार्यक्रम   .
in   2003   ,  Forbes  रेटेड  squash  as   the   क्रमांक  one  healthiest  sport to  खेल  .
Residual oil is oil  मिला  in low  एकाग्रता   naturally  or  in   बेहाल   आयल  fields .
प्रायः  mixed with  जल  , it can not  be  recovered  by  conventional techniques .
However ,  it   can   be   बरामद   using  carbon  dioxide-enhanced   आयल  recovery (  co2   eor   )   जिससे   involves  injecting carbon  डाइऑक्साइड   into  the well reducing viscosity and enhancing flow of the oil  .
The technique is not  नई   लकिन   रै   नहीं  been used extensively on  अवशेष   आयल  zones , low-grade deposits  of  petroleum such as the 38  वर्गाकार  miles  in   the  Permian Basin  of   टेक्सास  leased by  elliott  Roosevelt  jr   .
The technique  is  limited  by   उपलब्धता  of  कार्बन   डाइऑक्साइड  .
It does not result  in  sequestration  of   the  carbon dioxide  लकिन   the  gas  is  recycled  as  much  as   संभावित   .
संयुक्त   राज्य   reserves   of   अवशेष   आयल   हैं  estimated to  be  100 billion  barrels   .
कलाकार  's  रेंडरिंग  of  the   आग   ,  by John  R.  Chapin  ,   originally   मुद्रित  in  हार्पर   's   साप्ताहिक  ; the view faces northeast  आरपार  the Randolph Street  सेतु   .
The Great Chicago Fire was a conflagration  कि   burned  from Sunday ,  अक्तूबर   8  , to early Tuesday , October  10  , 1871  ,   हत्या   सैंकड़ों  and destroying about  in   शिकागो  ,  इलिनोइस  .
हालांकि  the fire was  एक   of   the  largest  u.S.  disasters  of   the  19th  सदी   ,  the  पुनर्निर्माण  that began  helped  develop Chicago  as   एक  of  the  most populous and economically  महत्वपूर्ण  American cities  .
Henry  viii   (  28  जून  1491  –   28  January 1547  )   थी   किंग  of  इंग्लैण्ड  from  21   अप्रैल  1509  जबतक  his death .
He was lord , and  बाद  king  ,  of  आयरलैंड  , as  खूब  as  continuing   the   नाममात्र   अर्जी   by  the  अंग्रेज़ी   monarchs   to  the Kingdom of  फ़्रांस   .
Henry was the  दूसरी   monarch  of the Tudor  राजवंश   ,  succeeding his father ,  हेनरी  VII  .
Besides his six marriages  ,  Henry VIII is  ज्ञात  for his role in  the   विरह   of   the   गिरिजाघर  of England  इससे   the  Roman  कैथोलिक  Church  .
Henry 's struggles with  रोम  led to the  विरह  of  the   गिरिजाघर  of England from  papal   प्राधिकार  , the  विच्छेद  of the  monasteries  , and his own  स्थापना  as the Supreme Head  of   the  Church  of  England .
Yet he remained a believer in  कोर  Catholic  theological  teachings , even after his excommunication  इससे  the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry  oversaw  the legal union  of  England and  वेल्स  with the Laws in Wales  अधिनियमों  1535 and  1542  .
In 1513  ,  the  नई  king  अलाइड   साथ  the  पावन  Roman Emperor ,  maximillian  I  ,  and invaded France  in   1513  with  a   विशाल  , well-equipped army  ,  but  हासिल   छोटी  at  a  considerable financial  लागत  .
maximillian   ,   लिये  his part , used  the  English invasion  to  his own  ends  , and  इस   prejudiced   इंग्लैण्ड  's  क्षमता  to  शिकस्त   the  French .
This foray  होता  prove  the   प्रारंभ   of  an obsession  लिये  Henry  ,  who invaded again in 1544  .
This time  ,   हेनरी   's  forces  captured  the  महत्वपूर्ण  city of Boulogne ,  लकिन   again  the Holy  रोमन   सम्राट  ,  चार्ल्स   v  , supported  हेनरी  only as  long   as  he  needed  to and  इंग्लैण्ड  ,  strained  by  the  enormous  लागत  of  the  war , ransomed  the  city  वापस   लिये   सलाम   .
His contemporaries considered Henry in  उसके   प्रधान  to be  an  attractive  ,   शिक्षित  and accomplished  किंग   ,  and  he  has  महरूम  described as `` one  of  the most  charismatic   शासकों   to   बैठना  on  the  English throne ''  .
Besides  सत्ताधारी  with absolute  शक्ति   ,  he also  सगाई  himself as an author  और   composer  .
His desire to provide  इंग्लैण्ड   साथ  a  पुरूष  heir –  जिससे  stemmed partly from  निजी  vanity and partly because he believed  a   बेटी   होता   be   असमर्थ  to  consolidate  the  ट्यूडर  dynasty  और   the  fragile peace that existed following the  युद्धों   of  the  गुलाब  – led to the  दो   बाते   लिये  which  हेनरी  is most  remembered  :  उसके  six marriages  और   the   अंग्रेज़ी  Reformation .
हेनरी   became  morbidly obese and  उसके   स्वास्थ्य  suffered  ,  contributing to his death  in  1547  .
he   is   अक्सर  characterised in his  बाद   जीवन   as  a lustful ,  egotistical  ,  हर्ष   ,   और  insecure king .
La  reina   डेल  Sur (  the   महारानी  of the  दक्षिण   )   is   a   spanish-language   telenovela   उत्पादित   by   the  United States television network Telemundo  ,  in  संयोजन   साथ   the   एंटेना  3  संजाल   और   rti  Producciones .
Based  on  a  अनोखा  of the  वही  name  by   स्पेनी  author  arturo  Pérez-Reverte  ,  the  नाटक   depicts  the  वृद्धि  of  टेरेसा   मेंडोज़ा  ( Kate  डेल   कैस्टिलो   )   ,  a young woman from Mexico who  becomes  the  सबसे   शक्तिशाली   ड्रग   trafficker  in  दक्षिणी  Spain .
patricio   wills  ,  the  president of  telemundo  Television  studios   ,  was the executive  निर्माता  .
Though  la   reina   डेल   सूर  was  मनोनीत   लिये   novela  of  the  Year , Favorite  सीसे  Actress  ,  and Best  ख़राब  Luck Video ,  it  won no awards  .
साथ  a $  10  million  बजट  , La Reina  डेल   सूर  was  the  most expensive telenovela  कभी   उत्पादित  by  telemundo   .
The  कार्यक्रम   's   प्रीमियर   on   फ़रवरी   28  ,  2011  ,  थी   the  network 's  उच्चतम   रेटेड   प्रीमियर  for a telenovela to  तिथि  .
the  program  अक्सर  dominated its  समय   स्लॉट   ,  even  over   अंग्रेज़ी   भाषा   प्रोग्रामिंग   on  other  प्रमुख  U.S.  संजाल  .
La  reina  del Sur completed its  63   एपीसोड   चलाएं  on  telemundo  and its  13   एपीसोड   चलाएं  on  एंटेना   3   simultaneously  on May 30 ,  2011   .
the  final episode  थी  the  उच्चतम  rated  ब्रॉडकास्ट  in Telemundo  's  19-year history  (   4.2   लाख  viewers )  ,   और  beat  सब   of  the English language U.S.  टेलीविज़न   संजाल  to earn the  क्रमांक   एक   स्लॉट   in  the 18-49  वयस्क  demographic  .
the   कार्यक्रम   's  success spurred  telemundo   to   लॉन्च  its  पहला  campaign  to   लाभ   the  series an Emmy  पुरस्कार  nomination .
a  one-night special  featuring  several cast members aired on May 31  ,  2011  ,   और  marked the Telemundo debut of noted Latina television personality Cristina  saralegui  .
La  reina   डेल   सूर   is  broadcast  in  several  अन्य  markets  ,   सहित   सर्बिया   ,   कोलंबिया  , Chile ,  साइप्रस   ,  Nicaragua  ,   कोस्टा  Rica  ,   मैक्सिको   ,  Albania ,  हंगेरियाई  , Slovenia , Croatia , Romania , ( among others  )  .
An example of  रैक  mounted  सर्वर
a  web  होस्टिंग  service is  a  type  of   अंतरजाल  hosting service that  allows  individuals and  संगठन  to  मेक  their website  accessible  via the  संसार  Wide Web .
Web  होस्ट  are  कंपनियाँ   कि   provide  space  on  a server  स्वामित्व   or   leased   लिये  use by  क्लाइंट  , as well as providing  अंतरजाल  connectivity , typically  in   a  data center .
वेब  hosts  can  also  provide   आंकड़ा  center space and connectivity to  the   अंतरजाल  for  अन्य  servers  स्तिथ   in  their  आंकड़ा   बीच   ,  called  colocation   ,  also known  as  Housing in  लैटिन  America or France  .
The scope  of  web  होस्टिंग  services  varies   greatly   .
the  most  मौलिक  is web page and  small-scale   संचिका   होस्टिंग  ,  जहाँ   फाइलें  can  be  uploaded via  संचिका   ट्रांसफ़र  Protocol  (  FTP ) or a Web interface .
the   फाइलें   हैं   प्रायः  delivered  to   the   वेब   ``   as  is '' or with  minimal  processing  .
अनेक  Internet  सेवा   प्रदाताओं   (   isps  )  प्रस्ताव  this service free to subscribers  .
Individuals and organizations may  भी  obtain Web  पेज  hosting from  वैकल्पिक   सेवा   प्रदाताओं   .
निजी   वेब   साईट   होस्टिंग  is  typically   फ़्री  , advertisement-sponsored  ,  or inexpensive .
कारोबार  web site hosting  प्रायः   रै   a   उच्चतर   व्यय  depending upon the size and  प्रकार   of  the  जालस्थल  .
सिंगल  page  होस्टिंग  is  generally  sufficient  लिये  personal  वेब   पृष्ठों  .
A complex site  काल्स  for a more comprehensive package that provides database support  और  application development  प्लेटफ़ॉर्म  (  e.g  .  पीएचपी  , Java ,  माणिक्य  on Rails  ,   coldfusion  , or ASP.NET  )   .
ये  facilities  allow   ग्राहक  to write or  स्थापना   स्क्रिप्ट  for applications  जैसे  forums and  सामग्री   प्रबन्धन  .
भी   ,  Secure  sockets   परत  ( SSL )  is   typically   प्रयुक्त  for e-commerce .
The host  may  also provide  an   इंटरफ़ेस  or control panel for managing  the  Web server  और   installing  scripts ,  as  well as  अन्य  modules and service  अनुप्रयोग  like  e-mail   .
कुछ   होस्ट  specialize  in   निश्चित   तन्त्र  or services ( e.g . e-commerce  )  ,  जिससे   हैं   commonly   प्रयुक्त  by larger companies that  outsource   संजाल   अवसंरचना   .
Madden NFL ( known as John  मैडेन   फ़ुटबॉल   पहले  1993 ) is  an  American  फ़ुटबॉल  video  खेल  series developed by Electronic  कला   tiburon  for EA Sports .
The game  श्रेणी   is   नामित  after  प्रो   फ़ुटबॉल   हॉल  of  famer   जॉन   मैडेन  ,  a   well-known  former Super Bowl  –winning  coach of  the  Oakland  हमलावरों  and color commentator .
The  श्रेणी   is   the  best selling  ea  Sports series  .
The games have consistently been  a  best seller  ,   और   रै  even spawned  tv  shows where players  compete  .
Among  the   खेल  's realistic features include sophisticated playbooks  और  player  आंकडे  , and  आवाज़  commentary that allows players to hear the  खेल  as if it  यहूद   a  real TV broadcast  .
the  Madden NFL  श्रेणी   रै  been  nicknamed   the   एनएफएल   's  33rd  मताधिकार  .
The series was originally  conceived   by   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  Arts founder Trip Hawkins ,  जो  then  approached  Madden  in  1984 for  उसके  endorsement  और  expertise  .
Due to Madden  's   insistence  that the  खेल  be as realistic  as   संभावित  ,  the   पहला  version of John  मैडेन   फ़ुटबॉल  was not  released  until 1988 .
the   दूसरी  version of the game was released  in  1990  ,  with  सालाना  versions since then  .
The series '  नाम   थी  changed  to  Madden NFL in  1993  after EA  acquired   the   अधिकारों  to  उपयोग  NFL  टीमों   और  players  .
despite  Madden  's   रिटायरमेंट  as  a  broadcaster in  2009   ,   he  continues to lend his name  और   provide  expertise for  the  game .
सिंडी   ली   मिलर   sheehan  ( born  जुलाई  10 , 1957 ) is an American antiwar activist whose son ,  u.S.   फौज  Specialist Casey  sheehan   ,  was killed by  दुश्मन   कार्रवाई  during  the  Iraq  युद्ध   .
वो  attracted national  और  international media attention in  अगस्त   2005   लिये  her extended  antiwar   विरोध  at a makeshift camp outside  अध्यक्ष  George  W.  Bush  's  Texas ranch  —a   स्टैंड  that  खींचा  both  passionate  support and  एंग्री  criticism  .
sheehan   भागा  unsuccessfully for Congress in  2008   .
वो   is   a  vocal  आलोचक   of   अध्यक्ष   बराक  Obama 's  विदेशी   नीति   .
उसके   संस्मरण  , Peace Mom  :   a  Mother  's  Journey  through   heartache  to  सक्रियता  ,  थी   प्रकाशित  in  2006  .
Sheehan  थी   the  2012 vice-presidential nominee  of  the Peace and  स्वतंत्रता  Party .
wyclef  Jeanelle Jean (  ;  ;  born  October 17  ,  1969 )  wyclef   dumped  From Haiti 's Presidential Ballot  –   समय  ,  अगस्त  21 ,  2010  .
``  Before  he  announced on August 5  कि  he was  कार्यशील   लिये  President of  हैती  , Wyclef Jean was still listing  उसके  age  as  only  37  years old  .
लकिन   बाद  declaring himself a presidential candidate  ,  the  haitian-american-irish   hip-hop   स्टार   भी  decided to come  साफ   और  confirm  कि  he was really 40 . ''  is  a  three-time  Grammy  पुरस्कार  -winning Haitian-American  rapper  , singer-songwriter , musician , record producer  ,   और   राजनेता   .
At age  नौ   ,  Jean moved to the  संयुक्त   राज्य  with his  परिवार   और  has spent  much  of his life in  the   देश  .
He first received fame  as   a   सदस्य   of   the  acclaimed New  जर्सी  hip hop group the  fugees  .
On August 5  ,   2010   ,  Jean  दायर  for candidacy  in   the   2010  Haitian presidential  चुनाव  , although the Electoral  आयोग  subsequently  शासित  him ineligible to stand as  he  had  नहीं   मिले  the requirement to have  महरूम  resident  in  Haiti  लिये  five  सालो  .
Wyclef  जां   to  appeal against Haiti election ruling – BBC News , Aug  22  , 2010 .
हैती  's electoral commission  कहा  that  mr  Jean was ineligible to stand as the  haitian   संविधान   requires   उम्मीदवार  to have lived  in  the  देश  for five years  prior  to an election  .
The 40-year-old  सिंगर   जीवनदान   in   the  US .
जां  's  प्रयत्न   at  earthquake relief , highly publicized  in  2010 throughout  हैती  and the  संयुक्त   राज्य   ,  were channeled through his charitable  संगठन  ,  yéle  Haiti .
The charity , which performed a  किस्में   of  charitable works  in   हैती   between  2005  और  2010 , effectively  बंद  in 2012 .
In law , a  set-off  is a statutory defense  to   the  whole or  to   a  portion  of   a   अभियोक्ता  's  अर्जी  .
it  had no existence  अंतर्गत   the  English common  विधि  , being created  by   2  Geo  .   ii  c. 22 for  the   राहत  of  insolvent  debtors , although set-off  थी   पहचाना  in equity  .
Such  a  defense could be pleaded only  in  respect of mutual debts  of  a  definite  character  ,  and  किया   नहीं  apply  to  cases  in   जिससे   क्षतिपूर्ति   यहूद  claimed , nor to  निष्पक्ष   दावा   or  demands .
By  the   नियम  of the  परम्  Court  (   O.  XIX  .   r.  3  )  a defendant in  an  action  may   नियत   बंद  or  नियत  up any  सही  or claim  by  way  of  counterclaim against the  दावा  of a  अभियोक्ता  ,  और   ऐसे   set-off  or counterclaim  रै  the  वही   प्रभाव  as a statement of  अर्जी  in a cross-action  .
The  विधिक   रक्षा  of  set-off  ( above  )   थी   originally  introduced to prevent  the  unfair situation  whereby   a  person ( `` Party  a   ''   )  who owed  धन  to  another  ( ``  पार्टी  B '' ) could  be  sent to  कर्जदार  prison  ,   despite  the  फैक्ट   कि   पार्टी  B also owed money to Party A  .
the   विधि  thus allows both parties to defer payment  जबतक  their  संबंधित  claims have been  सुना   in  court .
Upon  निर्णय  ,  दोनो   दावा   हैं   बुझे  and  replaced  by  a  single  जाल  sum owing ( e.g  .  If Party A owes  पार्टी  B 100 and  पार्टी   b   owes  Party A  105   ,  the two  रकम   हैं  set  बंद  and  replaced  with  a   सिंगल   दायित्व  of 5  इससे  Party  b  to Party A  )  .
set-off  can  भी   be   incorporated   by   contractual  agreement so  कि   ,  where a party  मूलभूत  , the  परस्पर  amounts owing  हैं  automatically set off  और  extinguished  .
in   निश्चित   jurisdictions  (  सहित  the UK  )   ,   set-off   takes  place automatically  upon   the   insolvency  of a  कम्पनी  .
इस   अर्थात्   कि  , for  प्रत्येक  party which  is   दोनो  a creditor and debtor  of  the insolvent  कम्पनी  , mutual  debts  are set-off against each other , and  तब  either  the   दिवालिया  's  creditor  can claim the balance  in  the bankruptcy or the  ट्रस्टी   in  bankruptcy can ask for the  संतुलन  remaining to be  सशुल्क   ,  depending  on  which side  owed  the most  .
This has  महरूम   criticized  as  an  undeclared  सुरक्षा   ब्याज  that violates the  principle   of  pari passu .
the  alternative ,  जहाँ   a  creditor  रै   to  pay all its  debts  , but  प्राप्त   तभी   a  limited  portion  of the leftover moneys that  अन्य   unsecured  creditors get ,  मुद्राएँ  the danger  of  'knock-on  '   insolvencies  .
The right to set off  is  particularly important when  रिपोर्टिंग   a   बैंको  's exposures  to   नियामक  authorities  .
The situation  जहाँ  a  बैंको   रै  to report  कि  it  रै  lent a large sum to  a  borrower  (   और  is  इसलिए   उजागर  , because  वहीँ  is a risk that the borrower  might   डिफॉल्ट  thereby  अग्रणी  to  the   घाटा   of  the bank 's or  इसके   जमाकर्ताओं  '  धन   )  is  यूँ  replaced  (   जहाँ  the bank has  लिया  security over shares  or  securities  of  the  borrower   )  with  an   एक्सपोज़र  of the  धन  lent  ऋण   the  value of the security  लिया   .
Jennifer Joanna Aniston ( born February 11  ,   1969  )  is  an  अमरीकी   अभिनेत्री   ,   फिल्मी   निदेशक  , and  निर्माता  .
Aniston gained  विश्वव्यापी  recognition in  the   1990s  for  portraying  Rachel Green  on  the television sitcom  मित्रों   ,   a  role  जिससे   अर्जित   उसके  an  एमी  Award  ,  a  सुनहरी   ग्लोब  Award , and a Screen  अभिनेताओं  Guild Award .
एनिस्टन  has  भी  enjoyed a  कामयाब  Hollywood film career .
She  gained  critical  acclaim   लिये   उसके  performances  in   the  independent  films  She 's the One (  1996  )  ,   दफ्तर  Space ( 1999 ) , The Good  लड़की   (  2002 ) and  मित्रों   साथ  Money ( 2006  )  .
She  रै  had her greatest  वाणिज्यिक   सफलताओं  with the films Bruce Almighty (  2003  )  ,  The Break-Up ( 2006 ) , Marley  &  Me (  2008   )  , Just Go with  it  ( 2011 ) and Horrible Bosses ( 2011 ) .
एनिस्टन  received a star  on   the  Hollywood Walk of  कीर्ति   on   फ़रवरी  22 ,  2012  .
A white Bengal  बाघ   at   the   ह्यूस्टन  Aquarium
(  वीडियो   )
a  White tiger at Tobu  चिड़ियाघर  , in Saitama , Japan  .
the  white tiger  is  a  recessive  mutant of the  बंगाल  tiger , which  थी  reported in  the  wild from time to time in  असम  ,  बंगाल  ,  बिहार   और  especially from the former State of  रीवा  .
Conventional  पीसीआई  ( PCI is an initialism formed from  परिधीय   घटक  Interconnect  ,   भाग   of   the  PCI Local Bus  मानक  and often shortened to just  पीसीआई  ) is  a   लोकल  computer bus for  attaching  hardware  डिवाइस   in   a  computer  .
the   पीसीआई   बस   supports  the  कृत्यों  found on a  प्रोसेसर  bus  ,  but in a standardized  स्वरूप   कि   is  independent  of   कोई   particular  processor  .
डिवाइस  connected to the bus appear to the processor to  be   कनेक्ट  directly  to  the processor  बस  ,  और  are assigned addresses  in  the processor  's   पता  space .
Attached devices can take  either   the  form  of  an  एकीकृत  circuit  fitted   onto  the motherboard  itself   ,   पुकारा   a   planar   यंत्र   in  the PCI specification  ,  or an expansion card that fits into a slot  .
The PCI Local  बस   थी   पहला  implemented in  ibm   pc  compatibles ,  जहाँ  it displaced the combination  of  ISA  प्लस  one VESA Local Bus as the  बस  configuration  .
it  has subsequently been adopted  लिये  other computer types .
PCI  और   pci-x  are being  replaced   by  PCI Express , but  ,  most motherboards are still  बना   साथ  one or more  पीसीआई   स्लॉट   ,   जिससे  are sufficient for  अनेक  uses .
the  PCI  specification  covers the physical  आकार  of the  बस   (  including  the  size and  अंतरण  of the  सर्किट  board  किनारे   विद्युत   सम्पर्क  ) ,  विद्युत  characteristics  ,   बस   समय  , and protocols  .
the   specification  can be  खरीदा   इससे   the   पीसीआई   खास   ब्याज  Group (  pci-sig   )   .
ठेठ   पीसीआई   ताश   प्रयुक्त  in PCs  शामिल  : network  ताश   ,  sound  ताश   ,  modems ,  अतिरिक्त   पोर्ट  such as USB  or  serial  ,   tv  tuner cards and  डिस्क   परिरक्षक  .
PCI  वीडियो   ताश  replaced ISA and VESA  ताश   ,   जबतक   growing  bandwidth  आवश्यकताएँ  outgrew  the  capabilities of  पीसीआई   ;   the   पसन्दीदा   इंटरफ़ेस  for video  ताश  became  अगप   ,  and  तब  PCI Express .
PCI  वीडियो  cards  remain  available  लिये  use with  बूढ़ा  PCs without AGP  or  PCI Express slots  .
Many devices previously provided  on   पीसीआई   विस्तार  cards  हैं   अभी  commonly  एकीकृत  onto  motherboards   or  available  in  universal serial bus  और  PCI  एक्स्प्रेस   संस्करण  .
कैफीन  is a bitter  ,   श्वेत   crystalline  xanthine alkaloid  कि  acts as  a  stimulant drug .
Caffeine  is  found  in   varying  quantities in  the  seeds ,  पत्ते   ,  and fruit of  कुछ  plants , where it acts as  a   प्राकृतिक   कीटनाशक   कि   paralyzes   और   मारता   निश्चित  insects feeding on  the   पौधे  , as  खूब   as  enhancing the reward  मेमोरी  of  pollinators   .
It is  सबसे   commonly  consumed  by   इंसानो   in  infusions extracted from  the  seed of  the  coffee  संयंत्र  and the  पत्ते  of  the   चाय   बुश  , as  खूब   as   इससे   विभिन्न  foods and drinks containing products  निकला  from  the   कोला  nut .
Other sources include  yerba   maté   ,   guarana   जामुन  ,  guayusa   ,   और  the yaupon  होली   .
In humans  ,   कैफीन   अधिनियमों  as  a   सेंट्रल  nervous system  उत्तेजक   ,  temporarily warding off drowsiness and restoring alertness .
It is the  संसार  's most  widely  consumed  psychoactive  drug  ,   लकिन   नापसंद  many other  psychoactive  substances ,  it  is legal and  unregulated   in   nearly   सब  parts  of  the world  .
Beverages containing  कैफीन   ,   ऐसे   as   कॉफी  , tea  ,   नरम   पेय  , and energy drinks  ,   आनंद  great  लोकप्रियता   .
in  North America ,  90   %  of adults consume  कैफीन   रोज़  .
Part of  the  reason caffeine is classified by the  खाना   और  Drug Administration  as  GRAS  (   generally  recognized as  सुरक्षित   )  is that  विषाक्त   doses   (   over   10  grams  )  are much higher than typically  प्रयुक्त  doses  (  less  than  500  milligrams  ) .
Ordinary  खपत   can   have   कम  health risks , even  जब  carried  on  for years  –   वहीँ  may be  a   modest   सुरक्षात्मक  effect  विरूद्ध  some diseases ,  सहित   parkinsons  Disease  ,  and certain  प्रकार   of  cancer .
Caffeine  can   have  both positive and negative effects on anxiety disorders .
कुछ  people experience  नींद  disruption  if  they consume  कैफीन  ,  विशेषकर  during the evening  घंटों  , but others  दिखाएँ  little  disturbance  and  the  effect of caffeine  on   नींद   is   अत्यधिक  variable .
Evidence of  a   रिस्क   to   गर्भावस्था  is  equivocal  ,  लकिन   कुछ   अधिकारियों  have  concluded   कि  prudent advice  is  for pregnant women  to   सीमा  consumption to the equivalent  of   दो   cups   of  coffee  प्रति  day or  कम  .
The  अमरीकी   कॉंग्रेस  of Obstetricians and  स्त्रीरोग  (  acog   )  concluded in  2010  that caffeine  खपत   is   सुरक्षित  up to 200 mg per day  in  pregnant women  .
कैफीन   रै  pressor and mild diuretic  प्रभाव  when administered to  लोगों   जो  are not used  to   it  , but regular users  develop   a  tolerance to this  प्रभाव  , and studies have generally failed to support the  आम   ख़्याल   कि  ordinary  खपत  contributes significantly to dehydration .
With  भारी  use , tolerance develops rapidly  to   autonomic  effects  ऐसे  as elevated  दिल  rate and muscle  twitching  , but not to the cognitive  or   arousal   प्रभाव   of  caffeine .
The degree to which caffeine  can  produce clinically  significant   शारीरिक  and mental dependence remains a subject  of   विवाद   in  the  चिकित्सा  literature .
A  kicktail   क्रूजर
A  longboard  is a longer variant of  a  skateboard .
it   is  commonly used for cruising  ,  downhill racing , slalom racing ,  स्लाइडिंग  , and/or  हस्तांतरण   .
Sources outside of  विकिपीडिया  give differing estimates:
The  सीआईए   's   संसार  Factbook gives  the  world population  as   7,021,836,029  (  जुलाई   2012  est  .   )  and the  वितरण   of  religions as Christian  100  % (  of  which Roman  कैथोलिक  18.85 %  ,  Protestant 8.15 % , Orthodox 4.96 % ,  anglican  1.26  %  ) , Muslim 22.74 % , Hindu 13.8  %  , Buddhist 6.77 % , Sikh  0.35   %  , Jewish  0.22   %  ,  baha'i  0.11 %  ,   अन्य  religions  10.95  %  ,   non-religious  9.66 % ,  atheists  2.01 % .
(  2010 est . )  .
The Coast Ranges of California span  इससे  Humboldt  काउंटी   ,   कैलिफ़ोर्निया   दक्षिण  to  सांता   बारबरा   काउंटी  .
The  अन्य   तीन   तटीय  California mountain ranges are the  अनुप्रस्थ   सीमाएँ  ,  प्रायद्वीपीय   सीमाएँ  and  the  Klamath Mountains  .
Physiographically  ,  they are  a  section  of   the   larger   प्रशांत   किनारा  province , which in turn  हैं   भाग  of the larger  प्रशांत   पहाड़   प्रणाली   physiographic  division .
युनेस्को   रै   शामिल  the `` California Coast Ranges  जीवमंडल  Reserve `` in  इसके  Man  और   the  Biosphere Programme of  संसार  Network  of   जीवमंडल  Reserves since 1983  .
वाहनों   in   उपयोग  per country from  2001   to  2007 .
It shows the significant  विकास   in   bric  .
World  मैप  of  यात्री  cars per 1000 people
an   ऑटोमोबाइल  ,  autocar   ,  motor  car  or  car  is a wheeled motor vehicle  प्रयुक्त  for  transporting   यात्री   ,   जिससे  also carries its  अपना  engine or motor .
Most definitions  of  the term specify  कि  automobiles are designed  to   चलाएं  primarily on  सड़कें  ,  to  have seating  लिये  one to eight people , to typically have four  पहियों  , and to  be   constructed  principally for the  हस्तांतरण   of  people rather than goods .
The term  motorcar  has also  महरूम  used in  the  context of electrified  रेल  systems to denote  a  car which functions  as   a   छोटी   लोकोमोटिव  but also  provides  space for  यात्री  and baggage .
These locomotive cars were  प्रायः   प्रयुक्त   on   suburban  routes by  दोनो  interurban  और  intercity  रेलरोड  systems .
it  was  अनुमानित   in  2010 that  the  number  of  automobiles  था  risen to  over  1 billion  वाहनों  ,  up   इससे   the   500   लाख  of 1986 .
the   संख्याएँ   हैं  increasing  rapidly  , especially in China  और  India .
John  fitzgerald  `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29 , 1917 –  नवम्बर  22  ,   1963  )  ,  often referred to by his  आद्याक्षर  JFK , was the  35th  President  of   the  United States  ,   सेवारत  from 1961 until his death  in  1963 .
After  सैन्य  service  as  commander of the  मोटर   torpedo  Boats PT-109 and  pt-59  during World War II  in   the  South  प्रशांत  ,  कैनेडी  represented Massachusetts '  11th  congressional  ज़िला   in  the U.S. House of Representatives  इससे  1947 to 1953 as a Democrat .
Thereafter ,  he  served  in  the U.S. Senate  इससे  1953  जबतक   1960  .
कैनेडी  defeated Vice President  और   रिपब्लिकन  candidate  रिचर्ड   निक्सन   in   the   1960  U.S.  अध्यक्षीय  election  .
At 43 years  of  age  ,  he  is  the  youngest   to  have  महरूम   निर्वाचित  to the office ,  the   second-youngest   अध्यक्ष  ( after  थियोडोर   रूज़वेल्ट   )  , and the  पहला  person born  in   the  20th century to  serve  as president .
A Catholic  ,   कैनेडी   is  the  तभी   non-  Protestant  अध्यक्ष  ,  और  is  the  only  अध्यक्ष  to have won a Pulitzer Prize .
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion  ,  the Cuban Missile Crisis  ,  the  भवन   of  the  बर्लिन  Wall ,  the   स्पेस   रेस  , the African-American  सिविल  Rights  गति   ,   और  early  चरण   of   the  Vietnam War .
therein   ,  Kennedy  increased  the number of military advisers , special operation  शक्तियां  , and  helicopters  in  an   प्रयत्न   to  curb  the  spread  of  communism in  दक्षिण  East  एशिया   .
The  कैनेडी   प्रशासन   अपनाया   the  policy of  the   रणनीतिक  Hamlet  कार्यक्रम  which  थी   implemented   by   the  South Vietnamese  सरकारी  .
It involved certain forced  relocation  , village internment ,  और  segregation of rural  दक्षिण  Vietnamese from the  उत्तरी  and  दक्षिणी   कम्युनिस्ट  insurgents .
Kennedy was assassinated  on  November  22   ,  1963  in  Dallas  ,  Texas  .
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged  साथ  the  अपराधों   ,  but  he  was shot and killed by Jack  माणिक्य   दो   दिनों   बाद  , before a  विचारण   could   लो  place .
the   एफबीआई   और  the Warren  आयोग  officially concluded that Oswald was  the  lone assassin .
However  ,  the  संयुक्त  States House Select Committee on Assassinations  (  HSCA )  concluded   कि  those investigations  यहूद  flawed  और  that Kennedy was  संभवतः   assassinated  as the result of a conspiracy  .
However  ,   एबीसी   न्यूज   in  their investigation ,  the  Kennedy Assassination : Beyond  षड्यंत्र   ,  confirmed  the  findings of the  वारेन   आयोग   ;  having concluded Oswald acted  अलोन   .
Kennedy 's controversial Department  of  Defense TFX fighter  bomber   कार्यक्रम   led  to a Congressional  छानबीन  that lasted  इससे   1963   to  1970 .
Since the 1960s  सूचना  concerning  कैनेडी  's private life has  आइये   to  light .
विवरण  of  कैनेडी   's  health problems in which  he  struggled  have   become  better known ,  विशेषकर  since  the  1990s  .
Although initially kept secret from  the   सामान्य  public ,  रिपोर्ट्स   of   कैनेडी  's  philandering  have garnered much press .
Kennedy  बाँधने  highly  in   पब्लिक  opinion ratings of U.S.  राष्ट्रपतियों   .
A Siemens  mxl  fire  सचेतक  control panel (  शीर्ष   )  and graphic annunciator ( bottom )  लिये  Potomac Hall  ,  at  जेम्स  Madison University .
a  Vigilant VM-1  आग  alarm control unit ( FACU  )   /  autonomous  कंट्रोल   ईकाई   (  ACU  )   साथ   एकीकृत  voice evacuation and fire  सेनानी  telephone system .
Manufactured  by   एडवर्ड्स  , A UTC  f   &  S Company
A  आग  Alarm Control  फलक  ( FACP  )   ,   or   आग  Alarm Control  ईकाई  ( FACU ) , is the controlling  घटक   of  a  आग  Alarm System  .
the   फलक  receives information from  पर्यावरणीय   सेंसर  designed  to   detect  changes associated  साथ   आग   ,   मॉनीटर  their operational  अखंडता  and  provides  for automatic  कंट्रोल  of equipment  ,   और  transmission  of   सूचना   जरुरी   to   तैयारी  the  सुविधा  for fire  आधारित   on  a  predetermined  sequence .
the   फलक  may also supply electrical  उर्जा  to operate any  संबद्ध   सेंसर  ,  कंट्रोल  ,  ट्रांसमीटर  ,  or  relay .
वहीँ   हैं   चार  basic  प्रकार  of panels : coded panels , conventional panels  ,  addressable  panels  ,  और  multiplex  प्रणालियों  .
This is a list of  the  first music videos broadcast  on  MTV 's  पहला  day , August 1  ,   1981   .
एमटीवी  's first day  on  the air was  rebroadcast   on   vh1   क्लासिक   in  2006 and  अपलोड   onto  YouTube in 2010 ( although only the first  चार  hours were  प्रामाणिक  ; the rest were  संपादित   vh1  rebroadcasts  )   .
Bandaranaike  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   विमानक्षेत्र   (   bia  )  (  also  ज्ञात  as  katunayake   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport  और  Colombo International Airport  )   is  one of the  दो  international  एयरपोर्ट  serving  the  city of Colombo  ,  the other is Ratmalana  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   विमानक्षेत्र  .
Mattala  राजपक्षे   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport located in southern  नगर   of   hambantota   is  the other  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   विमानक्षेत्र   in  Sri  लंका   .
Bandaranaike International  विमानक्षेत्र  is located  in  Katunayake , 22 miles ( 35  km  ) north  of   कोलोन   .
it   is   administered   by  Airport and  विमानन   सेवाएं   (  Sri Lanka ) Ltd  .
it   is   the  hub  of  SriLankan Airlines ,  the   नेशनल  carrier of  श्री  Lanka , and Mihin  लंका  , the budget  एयरलाइन  of Sri  लंका  .
ब्लैक   swan  is  a  2010 American psychological  थ्रिलर  and horror  फिल्मी  directed  by   डैरेन  Aronofsky and starring Natalie Portman  ,  Vincent Cassel ,  और  Mila  kunis  .
the  plot revolves around a  उत्पादन  of Tchaikovsky 's  swan   झील   बैले  by  a  prestigious New  यॉर्क   नगर  company .
the   उत्पादन  requires a ballerina  to   खेल  the innocent  और  fragile White  swan   ,  for which  the   वचनबद्ध  dancer  नीना  ( Portman )  is   a   पूर्ण  fit , as  खूब  as  the   अंधेरा  and  कामुक  Black Swan  ,   जिससे   हैं  qualities embodied by  the  new arrival  लिली  ( Kunis ) .
नीना  is overwhelmed by  a  feeling  of   immense  pressure  जब   वो  finds  herself  competing  लिये   the   भाग  ,  causing  her to  खोना  her tenuous grip  on   वास्तविकता  and  descend  into a living nightmare  .
Aronofsky  conceived  the  आधार  by connecting  उसके  viewings of  a  production  of  Swan Lake with an  unrealized  screenplay about  understudies  and  the   ख़्याल   of  being haunted by a double , similar to  the   लोकगीत   surrounding  doppelgängers .
aronofsky   cites   fyodor   दोस्तोयेव्स्की  's `` The Double `` as  another   प्रेरणा  for the  फिल्मी  .
The  निदेशक  also considered Black  swan  a  साथी  piece  to  his 2008 film The  पहलवान   ,   साथ  both films involving demanding  प्रदर्शन  for  अलग  kinds of art  .
He and Portman  पहला   discussed  the project in 2000 ,  और   बाद  a  ब्रैड  attachment  to   सार्वभौमिक  Studios  ,  Black  swan  was  उत्पादित   in  New  यॉर्क  City  in  2009 by Fox Searchlight  तस्वीरें   .
पोर्टमैन  and  kunis  trained  in   बैले  for  अनेक  months prior to  फिल्मांकन  , and notable figures from the ballet  संसार   helped  with  फिल्मी   उत्पादन  to  आकार  the ballet  प्रस्तुतीकरण  .
The film  premiered  as the opening film for the  67th  Venice International Film Festival  on  September  1  , 2010  .
It had a limited release  in   the  United  राज्य  starting  दिसम्बर   3   ,  2010  और  opened  देशभर   on  December  17  .
ब्लैक  Swan received critical  तारीफ़  upon its release , particularly for Portman 's  प्रदर्शन   और  Aronofsky  's  direction ,  और  was a significant box office success ,  grossing  $  329   लाख  worldwide  .
The  फिल्मी  received five Academy Award  nominations   और  Portman  जीती  the  बेहतरीन   अभिनेत्री  award for the film  ,  as well as many  अन्य   बेहतरीन   अभिनेत्री  awards in several guilds and festivals ,  जबकि  Aronofsky  थी  nominated for Best Director  .
In addition ,  the   फिल्मी  itself received  a   नामांकन   लिये   बेहतरीन   चित्र  .
The world’s first ice-calorimeter  ,   प्रयुक्त  in  the  winter of 1782-83  ,  by Antoine Lavoisier  और  Pierre-Simon Laplace  ,  to determine  the  heat involved  in   विभिन्न  chemical changes  ;   calculations  which  यहूद   आधारित  on  जोसेफ   ब्लैक  ’s prior  डिस्कवरी   of  latent  ऊष्मा  .
ये  experiments  चिह्नित  the foundation of thermochemistry .
a   ऊष्मामापी   (  from Latin calor , meaning heat  )   is   an  object used for  कैलोरीमिति   ,   or  the process  of   measuring   the   ऊष्मा   of   रासायनिक   प्रतिक्रियाएँ   or   शारीरिक  changes  as   खूब  as heat  क्षमता   .
Differential  स्कैनिंग   calorimeters   ,   समतापी  microcalorimeters  ,  titration calorimeters and accelerated  रेट   calorimeters  are among the most common types  .
A  सरल  calorimeter just consists of a  थर्मामीटर  attached  to  a metal container full  of   जल  suspended above  a  combustion chamber .
to  find the  enthalpy   बदलें  per mole  of  a substance  a   in   a   प्रतिक्रिया  between  दो   substances  A  और   b   ,  the substances  हैं   added   to   a   ऊष्मामापी   और  the initial and  फाइनल   temperatures  ( before the reaction started  और  after it has finished  )   हैं   विख्यात   .
Multiplying the temperature change by  the  mass  और  specific  ऊष्मा   capacities   of  the substances gives a  मान   लिये  the energy  दिए  off or absorbed  दौरान  the reaction  .
Dividing the energy  बदलें   by  how many moles of  a   यहूद  present gives its enthalpy  बदलें  of  प्रतिक्रिया   .
This  विधि   is   प्रयुक्त  primarily  in   अकादमिक  teaching as it describes the  सिद्धान्त  of  कैलोरीमिति   .
It does  नहीं  account for the  ऊष्मा   घाटा   through  the container or the  ऊष्मा   क्षमता  of the thermometer and container itself  .
in  addition , the object placed inside the  ऊष्मामापी   shows   कि   the  objects  transferred   उनके  heat  to   the  calorimeter and  into  the  द्रव   ,   और  the heat  अवशोषित  by the calorimeter and the  द्रव  is equal to  the  heat given  बंद   by  the metals  .
A  जोड़ी   of   ग्रीन   flip-flops
flip-flops  ( also  पुकारा   zōri  , thongs , jandals  ,  or  a  variety  of   अन्य  names throughout the  संसार  )  हैं  a type of  open-toed  sandal  typically  worn  in  casual situations ,  ऐसे   as  outside or  at  the beach .
They consist  of  a  चपटा  sole  आयोजित   loosely  on the foot  by   a  Y-shaped strap that passes between the first  और   दूसरी  toes and  around  either side of the  पैर  .
वे  may also be held to  the   पैर  with  a  single  डोरी   over  the front  of   the  foot  बल्कि   than  a  थोंग  .
The name  ``   flip-flop  '' originated because of the sound that is  बना  by  slapping  between the sole of  the  foot  और  the  मंजिल   जब   चलना   .
This style of footwear has  महरूम  worn  by  the  लोगों   of   अनेक  cultures throughout  the   संसार   ,  originating as  जल्दी  as  the  ancient  उन्होंने  in 4,000 B.C  .
The  आधुनिक   flip-flop   उतरता  from  the   जापानी  zōri , which  became   लोकप्रिय  after World War II when  सैनिको  returning  to  the United States brought  उन्हें  back  .
वे  became popular  in  casual settings during the 1960s , 1990s  ,  and 2000s , and some  किस्में  have even found  उनके   रास्ता  into more  औपचारिक  attire , despite  आलोचना  .
The  उपयोग   of  flip-flops can  परिणाम   in  many  pains  and injuries  ,   सहित   टखने   sprains   और   टूटा  bones .
Some individuals who walk  लिये  long periods  रपट   पीड़ा  in  the   फीट   ,   ankles  , and lower  टाँगे   .
the  lack of  support  provided  by  flip-flops  प्रायः   परिणाम  in over-pronation  चोटों   ,  caused  by  the  पैर  slipping inwards further than normal .
This can lead to  चपटा   फीट  and  tendonitis  .
Other injuries that may result  हैं   due   to  the  जूते   's  open-toed nature , such as  stubbed   toes  , cuts ,  और  bruises  .
Doctors recommend purchasing  pricier   चप्पल  with thick-cushioned  सोल्स  ,  as  well  as  those that have  a   डोरी  that is  नहीं  canvas and that  आता   वापस  almost to the ankle  .
the  owners of  hanjin  Osaka  ,  seen  यहाँ  transiting  the   पनामा  Canal in 2008 , declared general  औसत  following an explosion in  the  ship 's  इंजन  room on  .
the  law of general  औसत   is  a legal principle of  मेरीटाइम  law according  to  which all  पार्टियों   in   a  sea venture proportionally  share   कोई   नुकसान   resulting   इससे  a voluntary  बलिदान  of  भाग  of  the  ship or  कार्गो   to  save  the  whole  in  an  आपात   .
In the  exigencies   of   जोखिमों  faced at  समुद्र  , crew  सदस्यों  often have  अनमोल   छोटी  time  in   जिससे  to  determine  precisely  जिनकी  cargo they are jettisoning .
Thus ,  to   avoid  quarrelling that could waste valuable time  ,   वहीँ   arose   the  equitable  अभ्यास  whereby  सब  the merchants whose cargo landed safely would be called on to contribute  a  portion ,  आधारित   upon   a   share  or percentage  ,  to the  व्यापारी  or  व्यापारियों   जिनकी  goods had  महरूम  tossed  overboard  to avert imminent peril  .
जबकि  general average  traces   इसके  origins in ancient  मेरीटाइम  law , still it remains part of  the  admiralty  विधि   of  most countries .
The first codification  of   सामान्य   औसत   थी   the   यॉर्क  Antwerp Rules of 1890  .
American companies accepted it in 1949  .
General average requires  तीन   तत्व  which  हैं  clearly  stated  by  mr.  Justice  grier  in Barnard v. Adams:
`` 1st  .
A common  खतरे   :  a danger  in   जिससे  vessel ,  कार्गो   और  crew  सब   participate  ;  a  danger imminent  और  apparently 'inevitable , ' except by voluntarily  रूष्ट  the loss of  a   portion   of  the  पूरे  to  सहेजें  the remainder . ''
``  2nd  .  There  जरूर  be  a   voluntary   jettison  ,  jactus  , or  ढलाई   दूर  ,  of  some portion of  the   संयुक्त   चिंता   लिये  the purpose of avoiding this imminent  peril  , periculi imminentis  evitandi  causa ,  or   ,  in  अन्य  words  ,   a   ट्रांसफ़र  of  the   peril   इससे  the whole to a  particular   portion   of  the  पूरे  . ''
`` 3rd .
इस  attempt to avoid  the  imminent common  peril   जरूर  be  कामयाब   ''   .
उदाहरण   पॉलिश   कॉल  for  टीकाकरण  against Diphtheria and  टेटनस   .
A vaccination schedule  is   a  series of vaccinations ,  सहित   the  timing of  सब  doses ,  जिससे   may   be   either   अनुशंसित  or compulsory , depending on the country  of  residence  .
A vaccine is an  antigenic  preparation used  to   उपज  active immunity to  a  disease  ,   in   अनुक्रम   to   prevent  or reduce the  प्रभाव   of  infection  by  any natural or ``  जंगली   ''  pathogen .
अनेक   टीके   आवश्यकता  multiple doses for  अधिकतम  effectiveness , either  to  produce  sufficient  initial immune  जवाब  or to boost response that  fades  over time  .
लिये  example  ,   टेटनस   टीका   boosters  are often  अनुशंसित  every  10  years  .
Vaccine schedules are  विकसित  by  सरकारी  agencies or physicians  समूह   to   achieve  maximum effectiveness using required  और  recommended  टीके   लिये  a  मोहल्ले   जबकि  minimizing  the   क्रमांक  of health care  प्रणाली   interactions  .
Over  the  past  दो   दशकों   ,  the recommended vaccination schedule  रै  grown rapidly and become more  जटिल  as many  नई  vaccines  have  been developed .
Some vaccines are  अनुशंसित   तभी  in  निश्चित   क्षेत्रों  (  देशों  , subnational  क्षेत्रों   ,   or   at-risk  populations ) where  a  disease  is  common  .
For instance ,  पीला  fever  टीकाकरण  is on  the   दिनचर्या  vaccine schedule  of   फ्रेंच  Guiana ,  is  recommended  in   निश्चित  regions  of  Brazil  लकिन  in  the  United States  is  only  दिए   to  travelers heading to  देशों   साथ  a history of the  बीमारी   .
In developing countries , vaccine recommendations  भी   लो  into account  the   स्तर   of  health care access  ,  the cost  of  vaccines  और   मुद्दे  with vaccine availability and storage .
Sample vaccinations schedules  discussed  by the  संसार   स्वास्थ्य   संगठन  show a developed  देश  using a  अनुसूची   जिससे  extends over  the  first five  सालो   of   a  child 's life and uses  टीके   जिससे   लागत  over $  700   सहित  administration  लागत   जबकि   a  developing country uses a schedule providing vaccines  in  the  पहला  9  महीने  of  जीवन  and costing  तभी   $   25   .
This difference  is  due to the lower  लागत   of  health  परवाह  , the  निम्नतर  cost of many vaccines provided to  विकासशील  nations ,  और  that  अधिक   महंगी   टीके  ,  प्रायः   लिये  less common diseases ,  हैं  not  utilized   .
In 1900 , the smallpox  टीका   थी  the only one administered  to  children .
By  the  early 1950s  ,   children  routinely  प्राप्त  four vaccines  ,   लिये   सुरक्षा   विरूद्ध   (   डिप्थीरिया  , pertussis  ,  tetanus  ,   पोलियो  , and smallpox ) ,  और   as  many  as   पाँच  shots by  दो  years  of   आयु   .
Since  the  mid-1980s , many vaccines have been added  to  the schedule .
, the US Centers  लिये  Disease  कंट्रोल  and  रोकथाम  ( CDC ) now recommends vaccination  विरूद्ध   at   तनिक   चौदह  diseases .
By  दो   सालो   of   आयु   ,   u.S.   children  receive as  अनेक  as 24 vaccine injections  ,  and might receive  up   to   पाँच  shots during  एक  visit  to   the  doctor  .
The use of  संयोजन   टीका  products means that ,  ,  the United  किंगडम  's immunization  कार्यक्रम  consists of 10 injections by the  आयु  of  दो  , rather than 25 if vaccination for  प्रत्येक   बीमारी  was given as  a   पृथक   इंजेक्शन  .
दो   revellers   नृत्य   in   the   गलियों   .
the   रूप   of  dancing is called  ``   wining  ''  (  winding )  सुनाया  wine-ing
A Music Truck entertains the crowd  on   the   गलियों  .
ट्रक   हैं  an  अभिन्न   भाग  of  the  street parade  ,   featuring   सजीव  performances or  deejays
The  त्रिनिदाद   और  Tobago  कार्निवल   is  an annual event  आयोजित  on  the  Monday and Tuesday  पहले   राख   बुधवार   ,   और  is well known  लिये   भागीदार   's  colorful  वेशभूषा  and  समृद्ध  celebrations .
Carnival in  त्रिनिदाद  and  टोबैगो  is the most significant  इवेंट   on  the  आइलैंड्स   '  cultural and tourism calendar , with numerous  सांस्कृतिक   कार्यक्रम   कार्यशील  in the lead  up  to  the  street parade  on   कार्निवल   सोमवार   और   मंगलवार   .
it  is said that  if  the islanders are not celebrating it , then they  हैं  preparing for  it  ,  जबकि  reminiscing about  the   पास्ट  year  's  festival  .
The  दिल  of  the   musical   जश्न  has  महरूम  calypso  ;  recently  सोका  has replaced  कैलिप्सो  as  the  most  मनाये  type of music  .
Costumes  ,  stickfighting  और   limbo   प्रतियोगिताओं  are  भी   महत्वपूर्ण   components  of the  पर्व  .
Carnival as it is celebrated in Trinidad and Tobago  is  also  मनाये  in  शहरों   विश्वव्यापी  .
ये  including Toronto  's  Caribana , Miami 's Miami Carnival , Houston  carifest   ,  London 's Notting Hill Carnival  as  well  as   नई  York City 's  मजदूर  Day  कार्निवल   to   नाम  a few .
Carnival was created when West African slaves mimicked their French  स्वामी  who where known for their  lavish  costumes  गेंदें  .
Forbidden to partake in these festivities and  confined  to their quarters  ,  slaves combined  तत्व   इससे  their own  संस्कृतियों  to their  निपुण  's fete .
hence  the creation of  वर्ण  such  as   jab  Jab  or   jab  Molassie  (   शैतानों   )   ,  Midnight Robbers  ,  Imps ,  lagahroo   ,   soucouyant  , La  diablesse   और   राक्षसों  .
With the abolition of  गुलामी  in 1838 , freed Africans  took   उनके  version  of  Carnival to  the  streets through expression of drums  ,  riddim sections like tamboo  बाँसुरी   और  as each new  अप्रवासी   जनसांख्यिकी   डाला  Trinidad ,  कार्निवल  evolved into what we know  आज  .
The city of  शिकागो   ,  Illinois  आयोजित  a  nonpartisan  mayoral  चुनाव  on  मंगलवार  , February 22 , 2011  .
लाज़िम   महापौर  Richard  M.   डाले   ,  a member of the  लोकतांत्रिक  Party who  था   महरूम  in  दफ्तर  since 1989 , did not  तलाश   a  seventh term as  महापौर  .
Candidates needed to collect  12,500  petition  हस्ताक्षर  by November  22   ,   2010   to  qualify  लिये   a   प्लेस   on   the   बैलट   .
अप्रैल   5   ,  2011 was  अनुसूचित  to  be   a  runoff election date if no  प्रत्याशी  received an absolute  बहुमत   .
Rahm Emanuel won the race for mayor with more than 55 % of the  vote   .
He was inaugurated on May  16   ,   2011   .
``  उत्तेजित   up  Kicks ''  is   a   सोंग  by American  इंडी  pop  बैंड  Foster the  लोगों  .
It was  released   as  the group 's  डेब्यू   सिंगल   in   सितंबर  2010  ,   और  the following  साल  was included on  उनके   ep  Foster the People and  उनके  debut album  torches  .
``  उत्तेजित  Up  kicks   ''  became  the  group  's   भेदन   hit   और   थी  one of the most  लोकप्रिय  songs  of   2011  .
the  song was written  और   अंकित  by  frontman  Mark  फोस्टर  while  he  was  working   as  a commercial  झंकार   लेखक  .
Contrasting with the  upbeat   musical  composition  ,  the lyrics  describe   the   homicidal  thoughts  of   a   troubled   युवावस्था  .
the  track  प्राप्त   considerable  attention  बाद   it  was posted  ऑनलाइन   in   2010  as a  फ़्री  download , and  it  helped  the   समूह   गार्नर   a  multi-album  रिकार्ड   सौदे  with Columbia  रिकॉर्ड  imprint Startime  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   .
`` Pumped  up  Kicks '' proved  to  be a  स्लीपर  hit ; in 2011 , after receiving  significant  airplay on modern rock  स्टेशन   ,   the  song  crossed-over  onto contemporary hit radio stations .
The song  खर्च   आठ   लगातार   सप्ताह  at number three on the Billboard Hot  100  chart  in   the  United  राज्य  ,  बनाना  it  the   पहला  Billboard Alternative Songs  number-one  single  to   क्रैक   the  U.S. top  5  since Kings of  लिओन   's  ``  उपयोग  Somebody  ``   in   2009  .
The  सोंग  was  widely   praised   by  critics ,  और  it has been licensed  लिये   उपयोग   in  a  चौड़ी  range of  लोकप्रिय  media since  इसके   रिलीज  .
``  उत्तेजित   up  Kicks '' received a  ग्रैमी  Award nomination for  बेहतरीन  Pop  duo/group  Performance .
the   राज्य   मेला  of  वेस्ट  Virginia is an annual state fair  लिये  West Virginia  .
It is held annually in mid-August  on   the   राज्य   fairgrounds  in Fairlea  ,  near  lewisburg  ,  वेस्ट  Virginia in the  southeastern  part of  the   राज्य   .
The  राज्य  Fairgrounds consists  of  a large open  फ़ील्ड  for  carnivals   और  exhibitions , a horse track  ,  grandstands ,  और  several exhibition buildings .
Free parking  is   provided  adjacent  to   the   fairgrounds  and , until  2006  , free camping was also  उपलब्धियाँ  in  a  large field with  running-water   toilets  and showers  ,  but  no   hookups   .
Campers are now charged a  छोटी  fee .
the   श्वेत  House  ,  the  अध्यक्ष   's  official residence  और  center of the administration
Under  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   संविधान  ,  the   अध्यक्ष   of  the United States is  the   सिर  of  राज्य  and head of government  of   the  United States  .
as  chief  of  the executive branch and  सिर  of  the   संघीय  government as a whole , the presidency is  the  highest  राजनैतिक   दफ्तर   in   the  United States by influence  और   मान्यता   .
the  president is  भी  the  commander-in-chief  of  the  United States  हथियारबंद  Forces .
The  अध्यक्ष   is  indirectly elected to  a  four-year  पद  by an Electoral College  (   or   by  the House  of   प्रतिनिधि  should the Electoral College fail to  पुरस्कार  an absolute majority of votes to any person ) .
चूंकि   the  ratification  of  the  twenty-second  Amendment to  the  United  राज्य   संविधान  in  1951  , no person may be elected  अध्यक्ष  more than twice , and no  एक  who  रै   परोसा   अधिक   than   दो  years of a  पद   to  which someone  else  was elected  may  be  निर्वाचित   अधिक   than   एकबार  .
Upon the  मौत  ,  इस्तीफा   ,   or  removal from  दफ्तर  of  an   लाज़िम  President  ,  the Vice President assumes the office .
The  अध्यक्ष  must be  at  least 35  सालो   of   आयु  and a  ``   प्राकृतिक  born '' citizen  of  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
इस   सूची  includes only those persons who  यहूद   sworn   into  office as  अध्यक्ष   following   the   अनुसमर्थन  of  the  United States Constitution  ,  which  took  effect on  कूच   4  ,  1789  .
For  अमरीकी  leaders before this ratification , see  अध्यक्ष  of the Continental Congress .
The list does not  शामिल   कोई  Acting Presidents  अंतर्गत  the Twenty-fifth  amendment  to the United  राज्य  Constitution  .
There have been  43  people  sworn   into   दफ्तर  ,  और  44 presidencies ,  as  Grover Cleveland served  दो  non-consecutive terms and  is   गिने  chronologically  as  both  the  22nd  और  24th  अध्यक्ष   .
of  the  individuals  elected as president , four died  in   दफ्तर  of natural causes (  विलियम  Henry Harrison  ,   zachary  Taylor  ,  Warren  G.   हार्डिंग  ,  और  Franklin D.  रूज़वेल्ट   )  , four  यहूद  assassinated (  अब्राहम  Lincoln  ,  James  A.  Garfield , William  mckinley   ,  and John F.  कैनेडी  ) and one resigned  (  Richard Nixon  )  .
George  वॉशिंगटन   ,   the  first  अध्यक्ष  ,  थी  inaugurated  in   1789   बाद   a  unanimous  vote   of   the   चुनावी  College  .
विलियम  Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office  साथ  32 days in 1841  ,  and Franklin D.  रूज़वेल्ट   खर्च  the  longest   साथ  over twelve years ,  लकिन   died  shortly  into  his fourth term in 1945  .
he  is  the   तभी   अध्यक्ष  to serve more than two terms , and a  संवैधानिक   amendment   ,  affecting  राष्ट्रपतियों   बाद  Harry Truman ,  थी   passed  to  सीमा  the number of times an individual can  be  elected  अध्यक्ष   .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president ,  थी  the first  to   be   निर्वाचित  by  मेन   of  all classes  in   1828  after  सबसे   कानून   barring  non-land-owners from voting were  repealed   .
Warren Harding was  the  first elected  बाद  women gained  मतदान  rights in 1920 .
History records  चार  presidents  –   जॉन  Q Adams  ,   रदरफोर्ड  B. Hayes , Benjamin  हैरिसन  and George  W.  Bush –  जो  lost the  लोकप्रिय  vote but assumed office  .
John  F.  Kennedy  रै  been the  तभी  president  of  Roman Catholic faith  ,  and the current  अध्यक्ष  ,  बराक   ओबामा   ,   is  the first president  of  African  descent  .
``  Lombardi  ट्रॉफी   ''  redirects  यहाँ  .
For  the   पुरस्कार  awarded annually to the best  कॉलेज  football lineman  or   linebacker  ,  देखिए   लोम्बार्डी   पुरस्कार   .
the  Vince Lombardi Trophy  is   the   ट्रॉफी   awarded   प्रत्येक  year to the  जीतना  team of the National Football  लीग  's championship  खेल   ,   the  Super  कटोरी   .
the   ट्रॉफी   is  named in  सम्मान  of  legendary   एनएफएल   कोच   विंस  Lombardi  .
इस  is a list of  टेबल   of   the   सत्यापित  oldest  लोगों   in   the  world in ordinal rank  ,  such  as   oldest  person or oldest  man   .
In these  टेबल   ,  a supercentenarian  is  considered  'verified   '  if  उसके  or  उसके   अर्जी  has  महरूम   validated  by an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  body that specifically deals in longevity research ,  ऐसे   as   the   जराविद्या  Research  समूह  ( GRG  )   or  Guinness World Records  .
The longest unambiguously documented  इंसान   जीवनकाल  is  कि   of  Jeanne Calment of France  (  1875–1997  )  ,  जो  died at age 122  सालो  , 164 days .
She  मिले  Vincent van Gogh  जब   वो   थी  12 or 13  .
इस  led to news  मीडिया   ध्यान  in 1985  ,  after Calment  turned   110  .
Subsequent  छानबीन   मिला  documentation for Calment 's  आयु  , beyond  कोई  reasonable question , in the records of her native city ,  arles  ,  फ़्रांस  .
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for any other supercentenarian  ;  her case serves as an  archetype  in  the   methodology   लिये   verifying  the  आयु   of   the  world 's oldest people  .
The  longest   undisputed  lifespan  लिये   पुरूष  supercentenarians is  कि  of  jiroemon  Kimura ,  जो  currently lives in Japan and is age  as  of .
Since the  मौत   of  115-year  बूढ़ा   दीना   manfredini   of   the  United  राज्य  ,  on  17  दिसम्बर  2012 , Kimura , born  19   अप्रैल  1897  ,  is the oldest living  व्यक्ति   in  the world whose  आयु   can   be   प्रलेखित  .
He has also been  the   oldest   जीना  man  चूंकि  the death  of  114-year old Walter Breuning  on   14  April  2011  .
Since the death  of  115-year  बूढ़ा   koto  Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013  ,  the oldest living woman has been  -year-old  Misao Okawa  ,   भी  from Japan  ,  born  on   5  March 1898  .
The  लोगों   's  Court is an American arbitration-based reality  अदालत   दिखाएँ  , currently presided over by  रिटायर्ड  Florida  राज्य  Circuit Court Judge Marilyn  milian   ,  in which small claims  विवादों  are handled .
The  लोगों   's  Court  is  the first court show to use binding arbitration  ,  introducing the format  into   the   विधा  in 1981 .
The  प्रणाली   रै  been duplicated by most of the show  's   successors  in the judicial  विधा   .
moreover   ,   the   लोगों   's  Court is the first  लोकप्रिय  , long-running reality in the judicial  विधा   .
it  was  preceded   तभी  by a few short-lived realities  in   the  genre ;  ये   short-lived   पूर्ववर्तियों   यहूद   तभी  loosely related to judicial  कार्यवाही   ,  except for one : Parole  (  1959  )   took   फुटेज  from real-life courtrooms  पकड़कर   विधिक  proceedings .
prior  to The People  's   अदालत  ,  the  vast majority  of  TV courtroom  shows  used  अभिनेताओं  , and recreated or fictional cases  (   as   किया  radio before  कि   )   .
among   उदाहरण   of  these types  of  court  shows   शामिल  Famous Jury Trials and Your Witness  .
The People  's  Court has had  दो  contrasting  जीवनदान   .
The show  's   पहला  life was presided over solely  by  former Los Angeles  काउंटी   श्रेष्ठ  Court Judge  जोसेफ   wapner   .
His tenure  lasted   इससे  the show  's   डेब्यू   on  September  14   ,  1981  ,  until May  21  , 1993 , when  the   दिखाएँ  was  रद्द  due to low ratings  .
This  बाएँ   the   दिखाएँ   साथ  a total  of  2,484 1⁄2-hour episodes  और  12 seasons .
The  दिखाएँ   थी  taped in Los Angeles  दौरान  its first life  .
After being cancelled  ,   reruns  aired  जबतक  September  9   ,  1994 .
On September 8 , 1997 ,  बाद   होने  out of  उत्पादन  for  चार  years  ,   the  People  's   अदालत   थी  revived for  a  second life in first-run  अनुप्रयोग   as   a   60-minute  program .
Former  वकील  and Mayor of New York  ed  Koch was  चुनी   as   arbiter  ,  जिससे  he  कायम   लिये  2  सीज़न  from  the   1997–98   ऋतु  through  the  1998–99 season  (   the  present  जीवन  's 2nd  ऋतु   और   overall  show  's  14th  )   .
by  the 1999–00  ऋतु  , husband of Judith  sheindlin   (   जो   presides   over  Judge  जुडी   )  and former  नई   यॉर्क   राज्य  Supreme Court  न्यायधीश  Jerry  sheindlin  succeeded  koch  .
sheindlin   lasted  one and a half  सीज़न   as   he  was replaced towards the end  of   the  2000–01  ऋतु  ( present  जीवन  's 4th season  और  overall  दिखाएँ  's  17th   )  .
Beginning in spring  2001   ,   फ्लोरिडा  judge Marilyn  milian   took   over  The People 's Court and has  presided   over  the show ever since .
एकबार  Milian completes  the  2012–13  ऋतु   ,  she  होगा  have served as longest arbiter  over   the   श्रेणी  with  12  and  a   हाफ  seasons .
As of  the   उपस्थित   ,  however , her years on  the  program tie Wapner at  12  seasons .
In the 2009-10  टेलीविज़न   ऋतु   ,   the  People 's Courts 2nd/present  जीवन   outlasted   इसके   पहला   जब   it   पहुँचे   13  seasons  .
While the show taped  in  New York City for  the  first 15  सीज़न  of its  दूसरी  life , it now  टेपों   in   stamford  , Connecticut as  of  the 2012-13 season  .
On September 3  ,  2012 ,  the  People  's  Court  's  2nd/present life entered its 16th season ( 28th  overall   ऋतु  )  .
With  28   कुल  seasons , The People 's  अदालत  ranks as  the  2nd longest-running courtroom  कार्यक्रम   पीछे  the  जारी   तलाक   अदालत  at 33  सीज़न  ( from its  3   संयुक्त  lives )  .
Utah  (  or ) (  arapaho  :  wo'tééneihí  ' ) is  a  state in the  पश्चिमी  United States .
It  became   the   45th  state admitted to  the   संघ  on January 4 ,  1896  .
यूटा  is the  13th-largest  , the  34th-most   populous   ,  and  the  10th-least-densely  आबादी  of the 50 United States  .
Approximately 80  %  of Utah 's 2,817,222  लोगों  live  साथ   the  Wasatch  सामने   ,  centering  on  Salt Lake City  ,   leaving   विशाल   expanses  of the  राज्य   nearly  uninhabited  और   बनाना   the  population  the  sixth most urbanized  in  the U.S.  यूटा   is  bordered  by   कोलोराडो  on the east  ,  Wyoming  on  the northeast , Idaho on the north , Arizona on  the  south ,  और  Nevada on the west .
It also touches a  कोने  of New  मैक्सिको  on  the  southeast .
यूटा  is  the   सबसे  religiously  समरूप   राज्य   in  the  संघ  .
Approximately 63 % of Utahns  हैं  reported to  be  members of The Church of Jesus Christ  of  Latter-day Saints  or   lds  ( Mormons  )   ,  which  greatly  influences  यूटा  culture and daily life .
the   संसार   मुख्यालय  of  the   गिरिजाघर   of   यीशु   मसीह   of  Latter-day  संतो  (  lds   गिरिजाघर   )   is   स्तिथ   in  Utah  's   राज्य   पूंजी  .
the   राज्य  is  a  center of transportation , education  ,  information  प्रौद्योगिकी  and  शोध  , government services ,  खनन  ,  और   a  major tourist  गंतव्य  for  बाहरी   मनोरंजन   .
According to the U.S. Census  ब्यूरो  's population estimates  ,   यूटा  is  the  fifth  fastest-growing  state  in   the  United  राज्य  as of 2012  .
St. George , was the fastest–growing  महानगर  area  in  the United  राज्य  from 2000 to 2005 .
A 2012 Gallup  नेशनल  survey found  यूटा  overall to be the ``  बेहतरीन  state to  सजीव   in  '' based on  13   forward-looking  measurements including  विभिन्न  economic , lifestyle , and  health-related  outlook metrics  .
Coldwater is a small town in  टेट   काउंटी   ,   मिसिसिपी  .
it   is  in  the   मेम्फिस   महानगर   क्षेत्रफल   .
the   जनसांख्यिकी  was 1,674  at  the 2000 census .
the   मुश्किल  palate is a thin horizontal  बोनी   थाली   of  the skull ,  स्तिथ   in  the roof of the mouth  .
it   spans  the  मेहराब  formed by the upper teeth  .
It is  formed  by  the   palatine   प्रक्रम  of the maxilla and horizontal  थाली   of  palatine  अस्थि  .
It forms a  विभाजन  between the nasal  passages   और  the mouth .
Also on the anterior portion of  the   छत  of the hard  तालु  is  the  Rugae  जिससे  are  the  irregular  ridges  in the mucous  झिल्ली  that help facilitate  the  movement  of   खाना   पीछे   towards   the   pharynx   .
This partition is continued deeper into the mouth  by  a  मांसल  extension called  the  soft palate  .
पूरा  set  of  scrolls ,  constituting  the  संपूर्ण   tanakh   .
The Tanakh (  ,   or  ; also Tenakh , Tenak ,  tanach   )  is a  नाम   प्रयुक्त   in   judaism  for the canon  of  the Hebrew Bible .
the  Tanakh  is  also known  as   the  Masoretic Text or  the  Miqra .
The name  is   an   एक्रोनिम  formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the  masoretic   टेक्स्ट   's  three  परंपरागत  subdivisions : The  तोरा  ( `` Teaching '' , also known  as  the Five  किताबे  of Moses  )  , Nevi'im  (   ``   नबियों  '' )  और   ketuvim  (  ``  Writings  ''  ) —hence TaNaKh .
the  name ``  miqra   ''  ( מקרא )  ,  meaning  ``   कि  which is  पढ़ा   ''   ,   is  an  वैकल्पिक   यहूदी  term for the Tanakh  .
the  books of  the  Tanakh  यहूद  relayed  साथ  an accompanying oral tradition passed  on  by each generation  ,  called  the  Oral Torah .
गम्भीरता   नाका  in Germany
Driving  अंतर्गत   the  influence  (  DUI  )   ,  driving  जबकि  intoxicated  (  DWI  )  , drunken driving  ,  drunk driving ,  पेय  driving ,  ऑपरेटिंग  under the influence  ,   पीने  and  ड्राइविंग  ,  or   impaired   ड्राइविंग  is the crime of driving a  मोटर  vehicle  साथ  blood  स्तर   of   दारू  in excess of  a  legal limit (  ``   रक्त  Alcohol Content ''  ,  or  ``   bac  ''  )   .
Similar regulations cover  ड्राइविंग  or operating  निश्चित  types of  मशीनरी   जबकि   प्रभावित  by  पीने  alcohol or  लेने  other drugs , including ,  लकिन  not  सीमित   to   नुस्खा  drugs .
This is a criminal offense  in   सबसे   राष्ट्र   .
Convictions do not  necessarily  involve actual driving of  the   गाडी   .
In most  jurisdictions   a  measurement such as  a  blood alcohol  सामग्री  (  bac  ) in excess of  a   विशिष्ट  threshold level ,  ऐसे  as  0.05  %  or  0.08  %   defines   the   ठोकर  ,  साथ  no  need  to prove  पुतलियों  or  होने   अंतर्गत  the influence of alcohol  .
In  कुछ   jurisdictions  , there  is  an aggravated category  of  the offense at  a  higher  स्तर  e.g .  0.12  %  .
In most  देशों  ,  anyone   जो   is  convicted of injuring or  हत्या  someone while under the  influence  of alcohol  or  drugs can  be  heavily  fined  ,  as  in France , in addition  to  being  दिए   a  lengthy  थाना  sentence .
Some  कार्य  have their own  नियम   और  BAC limits  ,  for  उदाहरण   वाणिज्यिक  pilot ,  और   the  Federal  रेलरोड  Administration  in   the  United States  रै   a  0.04 %  सीमा  for  ट्रैन   क्रू  .
कुछ  jurisdictions have multiple  स्तर   of  BAC ; for example ,  the  state of California  रै  a  0.08  %  bac  limit , which is lowered to  0.04  % if  the  operator holds a  वाणिज्यिक   ड्राइवर  's  अनुज्ञा  .
the   कैलिफ़ोर्निया   bac   सीमा  is 0.01 % for  those  younger than  21  years of  आयु   और   those  on probation for a previous DUI conviction .
Some  विशाल  corporations  have  their  अपना   नियम  ;  संघ   प्रशांत   रेलरोड  has their  अपना  BAC limit  of   0.02   %   कि   ,  if  violated   दौरान  a random test or a for-cause  परीक्षण  —  लिये  example , after a  ट्रैफ़िक   दुर्घटना  —  can  result in termination of employment with  no   मौका  of  भविष्य   re-hire  .
Many  राज्य  in the  u.S.   और  provinces in  कनाडा  have adopted  सच्चाई  in sentencing  कानून   कि   enforce   सख्त  guidelines  on   sentencing   ,  differing from previous practice where  थाना  time  थी  reduced  or  suspended after sentencing  था  been issued .
कुछ   jurisdictions  have  न्यायिक   दिशानिर्देश   requiring  a  अनिवार्य   न्यूनतम   वाक्य  .
दंड  for DUI  आरोप  range from expensive fees  to   forfetiruree  of your  अनुज्ञा  plates and in some serious  हालातों  ,  अपना  vehicle  .
A drunk driving  सिम्युलेटर  in Montréal , Canada
the  specific  दण्ड   ठोकर   may  be called  ,   depending  on the jurisdiction  ,  driving under  the   influence   [  of alcohol or  अन्य  drugs  ]   (   dui  )  ,  driving  अंतर्गत   तीव्र   influence   (   duii   )   ,  driving while intoxicated  (  DWI  )   ,  operating  अंतर्गत  the influence ( OUI  )  operating  जबकि  intoxicated ( OWI )  ,   ऑपरेटिंग  a motor vehicle while intoxicated  (  OMVI )  ,   ड्राइविंग  under  the  combined influence  of  alcohol and/or other drugs , driving  अंतर्गत  the influence per se or drunk  in   चार्ज  [ of  a  vehicle ] .
अनेक  such laws  लागू  also to motorcycling  ,   बोटिंग   ,   piloting  aircraft  ,  use of motile farm equipment  ऐसे   as  tractors and  combines  , riding horses or driving a horse-drawn  गाडी   ,  or  bicycling  , possibly  साथ  different BAC  स्तर   than   ड्राइविंग   .
In  कुछ   jurisdictions  there are separate charges depending on  the  vehicle  प्रयुक्त  , such  as  BWI (  bicycling  while  intoxicated   )   ,  which may  carry   a   हल्का  sentence  .
In the  संयुक्त  States , local law enforcement  एजेंसियों  made  1,467,300  arrests  देशभर  for driving under  the  influence of  दारू   in   1996  , compared  to  1.9 million  ऐसे   रखवाले   दौरान  the  शिखर   साल  in  1983   .
In 1997  an   अनुमानित  513,200  dwi   अपराधियों  were  in  prison  or  jail  ,  down  इससे   593,000  in 1990 and up  इससे  270,100 in  1986  .
Officers from US  कस्टम  and Border Protection boarding  a   जलयान
Law enforcement in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  is  एक   of   तीन  major components  of   the   दण्ड  justice system  of  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   ,  along  साथ  courts and  corrections   .
हालांकि  there  exists   an  inherent  interrelatedness   between   the  different groups that make up the  दण्ड   इंसाफ  system based on their  अपराधों  deterrence purpose  ,   प्रत्येक   घटक  operates independently  इससे   एक   another  .
however  ,  the  judiciary  is  vested with the power to  मेक  legal  determinations  regarding the conduct  of  the other  दो   components  .
अलावा  from  maintaining  order  और  service  कृत्यों  , the  purpose   of  policing is the  छानबीन  of  suspected  criminal activity  और  the referral  of   the  results  of   investigations   और  of suspected criminals to  the  courts .
विधि  enforcement ,  to  varying  डिग्री  at  अलग  levels of  सरकारी   और  in  अलग  agencies ,  is  also commonly charged  साथ  the  जिम्मेदारियों  of deterring criminal activity and  of   preventing  the  कामयाब  commission of  अपराधों   in  progress  ;  the service and  प्रवर्तन  of  वारंट  ,  writs   और  other orders  of  the  न्यायालयों   .
विधि  enforcement  एजेंसियों  are also involved  in  providing  पहला  response to  emergencies   और   अन्य  threats to public  सुरक्षा  ;  the  protection of  निश्चित  public facilities  और  infrastructure ;  the  maintenance  of   पब्लिक  order ; the protection  of  public officials ;  और   the   आपरेशन   of   कुछ   correctional   सुविधाएं  (  प्रायः  at  the   लोकल   स्तर  )  .
Elmer  figueroa  Arce (  born  June  28  , 1968 ) , best known under the stage name Chayanne  ,   is  a  प्यूर्टो  Rican  लैटिन   पॉप   सिंगर  and  कर्ता  .
as  a  सोलो  artist  ,   chayanne  has released 21 solo albums  और  sold  over   15  million  एल्बम  worldwide .
``  संसार   युद्ध   हल्क   ''   is  a  कॉमिक  book  क्रॉसओवर  storyline that ran through a  स्वः  titled limited  श्रेणी   और  various  अन्य  titles  प्रकाशित   by   आश्चर्य  Comics in 2007  ,  featuring the Hulk .
The  श्रेणी   consists   of  five main  मुद्दे  titled  संसार   युद्ध   हल्क  ,  साथ  Greg  पाक  as writer  और  John Romita ,  jr.  as penciller ,  और  three other limited series  :   संसार  War  हल्क   :  Front  लकीर   ,   संसार  War  हल्क   :   गामा  Corps ,  और  World War  हल्क  : X-Men  .
It also ran  through  several  अन्य  Marvel  कॉमिक्स  series  .
The plot  is   the   culmination   of  a series of  कार्यक्रम  that  began  with the  हल्क  being tricked  into   स्पेस  by the  illuminati   और   a  life  मॉडल  decoy of Nick  फ़्यूरी  ,  the   हल्क  's  subsequent   निर्वासन   देखी   in  Planet Hulk and his imminent return to Earth to seek revenge  on   the  Illuminati  .
Marion  मिशेल  Morrison (  born  Marion Robert Morrison  ;  May 26 , 1907  –  June  11  ,  1979  )  ,  better known  by   उसके  stage name John  वेन   ,  was an American  फिल्मी  actor  ,  director  और  producer  .
An Academy  पुरस्कार   -winner  ,  वेन  was  among  the top box office  draws  for three decades ,  और   थी   नामित  the all-time top  money-making  star  .
An enduring American icon , he epitomized  खुरदरा   मर्दानगी   और   is  famous for  उसके  demeanor ,  सहित   उसके  distinctive  शांत   आवाज़  , walk , and height  .
वेन  was born in  winterset  , Iowa but his family  relocated   to  the  वृहद  Los Angeles area  जब   he   थी   चार  years  बूढ़ा  .
He found work  at   लोकल   फिल्मी   studios   जब  he  खोया   उसके  football scholarship to USC as a  परिणाम  of a bodysurfing  दुर्घटना  .
Initially  working  for the Fox Film  निगम   ,   he   ज़्यादातर  appeared  in   छोटी  bit  भाग  .
His first leading  भूमिका   आए   in  the widescreen  एपिक   the   बिग   ट्रेल   (   1930  )  ,  which  led  to leading  भूमिकाएँ  in  numerous   films  throughout  the  1930s , many of them in the western genre  .
उसके  career  रोज़  to further  हाइट्स  in 1939  ,  with  जॉन  Ford 's  stagecoach  making  उसे   an   तत्काल   superstar   .
वेन  would  go  on to  स्टार  in 142 pictures , primarily typecast in Western  films   .
among  his best  ज्ञात  later films  हैं  The Quiet Man ( 1952  )   ,   जिससे  follows  उसे  as an Irish-American boxer and his  प्रेम  affair  साथ   a  fiery spinster played  by  Maureen O'Hara  ;  The Searchers ( 1956 )  ,   in   जिससे  he  plays  a  सिविल  War veteran who seeks out his abducted  भांजी   ;   रिओ  Bravo (  1959  )  ,   playing  a  शेरिफ   साथ   डीन  Martin  ;  True  grit  (  1969   )  , playing a  humorous   u.s  . Marshal who  सेट   आउट  to  avenge  a  man   's  death in the  भूमिका   कि  won  वेन   an   अकादमी   पुरस्कार  ;  और  The  shootist  (  1976  )  ,   उसके  final screen performance in which he plays an aging  gunslinger  battling cancer  .
Wayne  स्थानांतरित   to  Orange  काउंटी   ,  California  in   the   1960s  ,  और  was a prominent Republican in  हॉलीवुड   ,   supporting  anti-communist positions  .
He died  of  stomach cancer  in  1979 .
In June  1999   ,   the  American  फिल्मी   संस्थान   नामित  Wayne  13th   among  the Greatest Male  स्क्रीन  Legends of  सब  Time  .
Galileo Galilei  (   ;  15  फ़रवरी  1564  –  8 January  1642   )  , was  an   इतालवी   physicist  , mathematician , astronomer  ,   और   पारस  who played  a  major role in  the   वैज्ञानिक  Revolution  .
उसके  achievements include  सुधार   to  the  दूरदर्शी  and consequent astronomical  observations  and support for Copernicanism .
गैलीलियो   रै  been  पुकारा  the `` father of modern  observational   खगोलशास्त्र  `` , the ``  पिता  of  आधुनिक  physics `` , the  ``  father of  विज्ञान  '' ,  और  ``  the  Father of Modern  विज्ञान  '' .
उसके  contributions to observational astronomy  शामिल  the telescopic confirmation of the phases of Venus  ,  the discovery of the four largest satellites of Jupiter ( named the Galilean moons in his honour  )   ,  and the  अवलोकन  and  विश्लेषण  of sunspots  .
Galileo  भी  worked in applied  विज्ञान  and  प्रौद्योगिकी  , inventing an improved military  कम्पास  and other  यंत्र   .
गैलीलियो   's  championing of heliocentrism was controversial within his lifetime  ,   जब  most subscribed to  either   geocentrism   or   the  Tychonic  प्रणाली  .
he  met with opposition from astronomers  ,  who doubted heliocentrism due  to   the  absence of  an   observed  stellar parallax .
the   पदार्थ   थी  investigated  by  the Roman  inquisition   in   1615   ,  and they  concluded  that  it  could be supported as only  a  possibility , not  an  established fact  .
Galileo later  defended  his  दृश्य   in   संवाद  Concerning  the   दो  Chief World Systems , which appeared to  आक्रमण   पोप  Urban VIII  और   यूँ  alienated him  और  the Jesuits , who had both  समर्थित  Galileo  up   जबतक  this point  .
He was  आजमाया  by the Inquisition , found  ``  vehemently suspect  of  heresy  ''   ,  forced to  recant  , and spent  the  rest  of   उसके  life under  हाउस  arrest .
it  was  जबकि   गैलीलियो  was under house arrest that he wrote one of his  finest   works  ,  दो  New  sciences   ,  in which  he  summarised  the  work  he   था   किया  some  चालीस   सालो   पहले   ,  on the two sciences now called  kinematics   और   शक्ति   of  materials  .
55 ''  lg   oled  TV showcased at CES 2012
Prototype OLED lighting  फलक   विकसित  by Lumiotec
demonstration  of  a   लचीली  OLED  यंत्र
an  OLED ( organic  light-emitting   डायोड   )   is  a light-emitting  डायोड   (   led  )  in  which  the   emissive  electroluminescent layer  is   a   फिल्मी  of organic  यौगिक   जिससे  emits light  in  response to  an  electric current .
इस  layer of organic semiconductor is  situated  between two electrodes .
Generally  ,  at  तनिक  one of these  electrodes  is  पारदर्शी   .
OLEDs  हैं   प्रयुक्त   to  create  डिजिटल   प्रदर्शक  in devices  ऐसे  as television  screens  , computer monitors  ,  portable systems such as mobile phones ,  हैंडहेल्ड   खेल  consoles  और  PDAs .
a  major  क्षेत्रफल  of  शोध  is the development  of   श्वेत  OLED devices  लिये  use in  solid-state   lighting   अनुप्रयोग   .
वहीँ  are two  प्रमुख  families of OLEDs : those based  on  small molecules and  those  employing polymers .
Adding mobile ions to  an  OLED creates a light-emitting electrochemical cell  or  LEC ,  जिससे  has a  थोड़ा  different mode of  आपरेशन   .
OLED  प्रदर्शक  can  उपयोग  either  passive-matrix   (   pmoled   )  or active-matrix addressing schemes .
active-matrix  OLEDs  (  AMOLED  )  require  a  thin-film transistor backplane  to   स्विच  each individual pixel on or off  ,   लकिन  allow  लिये  higher  रेज़ोल्यूशन   और  larger display sizes .
An OLED display  works  without  a   backlight  .
यूँ   ,  it  can   प्रदर्शक   गहन   ब्लैक  levels and  can  be thinner and  हल्का   than  a liquid crystal  प्रदर्शक  ( LCD ) .
in   कम   परिवेश   लाइट   शर्तें  such as  a  dark  रूम  an  oled  screen  can  achieve a  उच्चतर  contrast ratio  than   an  LCD  ,  whether  the   एलसीडी  uses cold cathode fluorescent  दीये   or   led   backlight   .
A  carton  and a glass  of  eggnog  इससे   मॉन्ट्रियल  , Canada  ,   प्रर्दशित   इसके  French  मुखाग्र  ( English  रिवर्स  ) and the French term lait de poule  (  literally ,  ``  hen 's  मिल्क  '' )
Eggnog , or egg nog  ,   is   a  sweetened  दुग्ध   -आधारd  beverage traditionally  बना   साथ  milk  and/or  cream  ,  sugar , and  whipped  eggs  (   जिससे  gives it  a  frothy texture )  .
Brandy ,  rum   ,  whisky , bourbon , vodka ,  or  a  संयोजन   of  liquors are often  added   .
The finished serving is often garnished with a  sprinkling   of   मैदान   दालचीनी  or nutmeg  .
It was also  ज्ञात   as   the  egg  मिल्क   पंच  .
Eggnog is a popular  पेय  throughout  the  United  राज्य  and  कनाडा  , and is usually  संबद्ध   साथ  Christmas  .
Eggnog  may   be  added as a flavoring to food or  पेय  such  as  coffee  और  tea  .
Eggnog  as  a  कस्टर्ड   can   भी   be  used as an  बर्फ   मलाई   आधार   .
a   pasty   (  , ) ,  (  sometimes known  in  Britain as a Cornish pasty , and in the United States  as  a  pastie  or  अंग्रेजों   pasty   )  is a baked  पेस्ट्री   ,  a traditional  किस्में   of  which  is   विशेषकर   संबद्ध   साथ  Cornwall  ,  the  westernmost  county in England .
It is made by  रखकर   uncooked  filling typically of  मांस   और   सब्जियां  , without  मांस  in  शाकाहारी  versions ,  on  a flat pastry circle  और   फोल्डिंग  it to  रैप  the  भरना  , crimping the  किनारे   to   रूप  a seal .
After baking ,  the   परिणाम   is  a raised  semicircular  comestible .
The  परंपरागत   cornish  pasty  ,  which  रै  Protected Geographical  indication  (  pgi  )  औकात  in Europe ,  is   भर  with  बीफ   ,  sliced  or  diced  आलू  , swede  (  also  ज्ञात   as  a  पीला   शलजम  or rutabaga – referred to  in  Cornwall  as   शलजम  ) and  प्याज  , seasoned  साथ   नमक   और  pepper ,  और  is baked .
Today  ,  the  pasty   is  the food  सबसे  associated with  कॉर्नवॉल   ,   it  is  regarded   as   the  national  डिश  , and it accounts for 6  %   of   the   cornish   खाना   अर्थव्यवस्था   .
pasties  with  अनेक  different fillings are made  ;  some  दुकानें  specialise  in  selling all  sorts   of  pasties .
the  origins of  the  pasty are unclear  ,  though there are many references to them throughout  ऐतिहासिक  documents  और   fiction  .
the   pasty   is  now popular world-wide due to  the   स्प्रेड  of Cornish miners , and  विसंगतियाँ  can be found in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  ,  the   संयुक्त  States  ,  Mexico  और  elsewhere  .
The ( ortho-  )   सहानुभूतिपूर्ण   बेचैन  system (  sns   )   is  one of  तीन  major  भाग   of   the   autonomic  nervous  प्रणाली   :   the  others  होने   the   enteric  and  parasympathetic   प्रणालियों  .
Its  सामान्य  action is to mobilize the  देह  's  बेचैन  system fight-or-flight response .
It is , however , constantly  क्रियाशील   at   a  basic  स्तर  to maintain  समस्थापन   .
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is  a   non-volatile  memory card  स्वरूप  for  उपयोग  in  पोर्टेबल   डिवाइस  , such as mobile phones  ,   डिजिटल  cameras ,  gps  navigation  डिवाइस  ,  और  tablet computers  .
The  सुरक्षित   डिजिटल  standard  is   कायम  by the  sd   कार्ड   संघ   (  SDA )  .
SD technologies have been  implemented   in   अधिक  than 400 brands across  दर्जनों  of product categories and more than  8,000   मॉडल  .
the   सुरक्षित  Digital format includes  चार   कार्ड  families available  in  three  अलग  form  कारकों  .
the  four families are  the   असली  Standard-Capacity (  sdsc   )  , the  high-capacity  ( SDHC  )  ,  the   extended-capacity   (   sdxc  ) , and  the   sdio   ,  which combines  input/output  functions  साथ   आंकड़ा  storage  .
The three  रूप  factors are the  असली   आकार  , the `` mini  ''  size ,  और   the  ``  सूक्ष्म  '' size  (   देखिए   उदाहरण   )  .
वहीँ  are many  combinations  of form factors  और   यंत्र  families  .
Electrically  passive   adapters  allow the use of  a   छोटी  card in  a  host  यंत्र  built to  थाम   a  larger  कार्ड  .
मेजबान  devices that comply with newer versions  of   the   specification  provide  पिछड़ा   संगतता  and accept  पुरानी  SD cards  ,  but this article explains several  कारकों  that can prevent the use of  a  newer SD  card:
a  newer card may offer  वृहद   क्षमता  than the  मेजबान   यंत्र   can   हैंडल  .
a   नए  card may use a  संचिका  system the  मेजबान  device  can  not navigate .
उपयोग  of an SDIO  कार्ड  requires the  मेजबान   यंत्र  be  designed   लिये  the input/output  कृत्यों  the  कार्ड   provides  .
The  संगठन   of  the  कार्ड  was  बदला   starting   साथ  the SDHC  परिवार   .
Some vendors produced SDSC cards above  1   gb   पहले   the   sda  had standardized a method of doing  so  .
The SDA  उपयोग  several trademarked  लोगो   to  enforce  अनुपालन  with  इसके  specifications and  assure  users  of  compatibility .
the  following  is  a  सूची  of critics of  the   नई   सौदे  .
डेनियल  Lawrence  व्हिटनी   (  born  फ़रवरी   17  ,  1963  )  बेहतरीन  known by his stage name  और  character  लैरी   the   केबल  Guy  ,   is   an  American  stand-up   हास्य  , actor  ,  country  म्यूज़िक  artist , voice actor  ,   और   पूर्व   रेडियो  personality .
he  was one of  the  members of the Blue Collar  कॉमेडी   दौरे   ,  a  कॉमेडी   troupe   जिससे   शामिल   विधेयक  Engvall  ,  Ron  श्वेत   ,   और  Jeff  foxworthy   (  with whom  he   रै  starred  on  Blue Collar  tv  )  .
व्हिटनी  has  released   सात  comedy albums ,  of   जिससे  three have  महरूम  certified  सुनहरा   by  the  riaa   लिये  shipments of 500,000 copies  .
in   जोड  , he has starred in three Blue  कॉलर  Comedy Tour-related movies , as well as  in   the  films  लैरी   the   केबल   guy   :   स्वास्थ्य  Inspector , Delta Farce  ,  and Witless Protection  ,   as  well as voicing Mater in the Cars  मताधिकार  .
Whitney  's  catchphrase : ``  git-r-done   !  '' is  भी  the  शीर्षक  of his  किताब  .
On  जनवरी  26  ,   2010  ,  the  TV  चैनल   इतिहास  announced that it was  ordering   a   श्रेणी  starring Whitney called Only in America  साथ  Larry the Cable Guy ,  in   जिससे   he   होता  explore  the   देश  and immerse himself in different  lifestyles  ,  कार्य  , and hobbies .
The first episode  of   the   श्रेणी  aired on February 8  ,  2011 .
विटामिन   d   is   a  group of  fat-soluble  secosteroids responsible for  intestinal   अवशोषण  of calcium and phosphate  .
in   इंसानो   ,   the  most important  सम्बन्धित   यौगिकों   of  vitamin D are  विटामिन   d2   और   विटामिन  D3 .
Cholecalciferol  (   विटामिन  D3  )  and  ergocalciferol  (  विटामिन  D2  )  are unique  as   वे   constitute  what we know as  विटामिन  D  और  can  be  ingested from the diet  and/or  supplements .
The body can  भी  synthesize  विटामिन  D ( from  कोलेस्ट्रॉल  )  जब   सूर्य  exposure  is   पर्याप्त  (  hence  its  उपनाम  , the `` sunshine vitamin ''  )   .
Although vitamin  d   is  commonly  पुकारा  a  विटामिन  ,  it   is  not  दरअसल   an  essential dietary  विटामिन  in the strict  भाव   ,  as  it  can  be  synthesized  in   पर्याप्त   amounts   by  most  स्तनधारियों  exposed  to  sunlight  .
( Cats and dogs can  नहीं   synthesize   विटामिन  D efficiently and  जरूर   प्राप्त  it in  उनके  diet . )
an   सशुल्क  chemical  यौगिक  (  or  related set of  यौगिकों   )  is only scientifically  पुकारा  a  विटामिन   जब  it can  नहीं  be synthesized in sufficient quantities  by  an organism ,  और  must  be  obtained  इससे   उनके  diet .
however  , as  साथ   अन्य   यौगिकों   commonly  called  विटामिन  ,  विटामिन   d   थी   खोजा   in  an  प्रयत्न  to  ढूँढें   the   dietary  substance  कि  was lacking  in   a   बीमारी  , namely , rickets  ,   the  childhood form  of  osteomalacia .
Additionally , like  अन्य   यौगिकों  called vitamins ,  in   the   विकसित  world vitamin D is  added   to  staple  भोजन  , such  as   मिल्क   ,  to  avoid  disease due  to   कमियां  .
Measures  of  serum levels reflect  endogenous   संश्लेषण   इससे  exposure  to  sunlight as  खूब  as intake from  the   आहार   ,  and  it  is believed that  संश्लेषण   may   योगदान  generally to the  मेंटेनेंस  of  पर्याप्त  serum concentrations .
the   प्रमाण  indicates that the synthesis of  विटामिन  D from sun exposure works in  a  feedback loop that prevents toxicity but  ,  because of  अनिश्चितता   परिचय  the cancer  रिस्क  from  धूप   ,   no   सुझाव  are issued by  the  Institute of  आयुर्विज्ञान  , USA , for  the  amount of sun exposure required  to  meet vitamin  d  requirements  .
तदनुसार   ,   the  Dietary Reference  intakes   लिये  vitamin  d  assume that  no  synthesis occurs and that  सब  of  a  person 's vitamin D is  इससे  their  आहार  ,  हालांकि   कि  will rarely occur in practice .
in  the liver vitamin D is  परिवर्तित  to calcidiol , which is also known as  calcifediol   (   इन   )  ,  25-hydroxycholecalciferol  ,  or   25-hydroxyvitamin  D—abbreviated 25 ( OH  )  D  ;  and which is  the  specific vitamin D metabolite that is measured in  सीरम  to determine a person  's  vitamin D  औकात   .
भाग   of   the   calcidiol   is   परिवर्तित  by the kidneys  to  calcitriol , the biologically active form of vitamin  D.  Calcitriol  circulates  as  a  hormone in the  रक्त  , regulating the  विशेषज्ञता   of  calcium  और   फास्फेट  in  the   bloodstream  and  promoting  the healthy  विकास  and  remodeling  of bone .
Calcidiol is  भी   परिवर्तित   to   calcitriol   बाहर  of  the  kidneys  लिये  other  उद्देश्य  ,  ऐसे  as the proliferation ,  differentiation  and  apoptosis  of  कोशिकाएं   ;   calcitriol  also  affects   neuromuscular   फलन  and  सूजन  .
Beyond its  उपयोग  to prevent osteomalacia or rickets , the  प्रमाण  for other  स्वास्थ्य  effects  of   विटामिन  D supplementation  in  the  सामान्य   जनसांख्यिकी  is inconsistent  .
the  best evidence of benefit is for  अस्थि  health and a decrease in  मृत्यु   in   बुजुर्ग  women  .
Standard form  of  the  आवधिक  table .
The  रंगों  represent different  श्रेणी   of  elements explained below .
The periodic table  is   a   table   प्रदर्शक  of the  रासायनिक  elements  ,  organized  on  the basis of their atomic numbers  ,  electron configurations  ,   और   पुनरावर्ती  chemical properties .
Elements  हैं  presented in order of increasing atomic  क्रमांक  (  क्रमांक  of protons ) .
The standard form of table comprises an 18  ×  7 grid or main  देह   of  elements , positioned  ऊपर   a   छोटी  double row of elements  .
The table can also  be  deconstructed into four rectangular  ब्लॉक  : the s-block to the  बाएँ   ,  the p-block to  the  right ,  the  d-block  in  the  मध्य  ,  और  the f-block below that .
the  rows of  the  table  हैं   पुकारा  periods ;  the  columns of the s-  ,  d-  ,   और   p-blocks  are called  समूह   ,  with some of  ये   having  names such as the  हैलोजन्स   or   the   प्रतिष्ठित  gases .
Since , by  परिभाषा   ,   a   आवधिक  table incorporates recurring trends  ,   कोई   ऐसे  table can be used to derive relationships between  the   गुण  of  the  elements  और  predict  the  properties of new  ,  yet to be discovered or synthesized ,  तत्व   .
As a  परिणाम  , a periodic table—whether  in  the standard  रूप   or  some  अन्य  variant—provides a useful framework  लिये  analyzing chemical behavior , and such tables  हैं   widely   प्रयुक्त  in chemistry and other  sciences   .
हालांकि   precursors  exist , Dmitri Mendeleev  is   generally  credited with the  प्रकाशन  ,  in   1869   ,  of the  पहला  widely recognized periodic table .
He  विकसित   उसके  table  to  illustrate periodic trends in  the  properties  of  the then-known  तत्व  .
Mendeleev  भी  predicted  कुछ   गुण  of then-unknown  तत्व  that would be  अपेक्षित  to fill gaps in this  तालिका   .
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the elements  in  question were  subsequently  discovered .
Mendeleev 's  आवधिक  table  रै  since been expanded and  परिष्कृत   साथ   the   डिस्कवरी  or  संश्लेषण   of  further new  तत्व   और  the  विकास  of new  सैद्धांतिक  models to explain  रासायनिक  behavior  .
All elements from  परमाणु   संख्याएँ   1   (   हाइड्रोजन  )  to  118  (   ununoctium  ) have been discovered or  synthesized   .
The elements  इससे  1 to 98 ( californium  )  have  महरूम  found  to  exist  naturally   ,  although  कुछ   हैं  found only  in   ट्रेस  amounts  और  were  initially   खोजा  by synthesis in laboratories .
The elements after 98 have only  महरूम  synthesized in laboratories  .
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is  होने  pursued  ,   साथ  the  सवाल  of how the periodic table may  need  to be modified to accommodate  कोई   ऐसे   परिवर्धन  being  a  matter  of  ongoing  बहस  .
Numerous  सिंथेटिक  radionuclides of  naturally   occurring  elements  have  also  महरूम  produced  in   laboratories  .
न्यूनतम   मजदूरी   by  U.S. state and  u.S.   territory  (  अमरीकी  Samoa  ,   गुआम  ,  प्यूर्टो   रीको   ,   वर्जिन   आइलैंड्स  )  ,   as  of  jan.  1 ,  2013  .
In  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  मजदूर   हैं   generally  entitled to be paid no less than  the  statutory  न्यूनतम   मजदूरी  .
The  संघीय   सरकारी  mandates  a   देशभर  minimum wage level of $ 7.25 per  घंटा   ,  while some states  और  municipalities have set minimum wage levels  उच्चतर  than the  संघीय   स्तर  ,  साथ  the  उच्चतम  state  न्यूनतम  wage  होने   $  9.19 per  घंटा   in   वॉशिंगटन   as   of  2013 .
Among those paid by the hour  in   2012   ,   1.6  million were reported as  कमाई  exactly  the  prevailing federal minimum wage .
About 2.0  लाख   यहूद   reported  as earning  मजदूरी   नीचे   the  minimum .
Together  ,   ये   3.6  million workers with wages at or  नीचे  the  न्यूनतम  made up 4.7  प्रतिशत  of  सब  hourly-paid workers .
A  चयन  of Bourbons  और  Tennessee  whiskeys  offered  at   a   liquor   स्टोर  in Decatur  ,  Georgia
Evan  विलियम्स  bourbon whiskey
bourbon   whiskey  is  a  type  of   अमरीकी   whiskey  – a barrel-aged  आसुत   स्पिरिट   बना  primarily from corn .
the  name  of  the spirit derives  इससे  its  ऐतिहासिक  association with  an   क्षेत्रफल  known as Old Bourbon  ,  around  कया   is  now Bourbon County ,  केंटकी  (  जिससे   ,  in  फेरे  , was  नामित  after the French  हाउस  of Bourbon royal family  )  .
it   रै   महरूम  produced  चूंकि   the  18th century .
जबकि  it  may  be made anywhere  in  the United  राज्य   ,  it is  strongly   संबद्ध   साथ   the  American  दक्षिण   in   सामान्य  ,  और  Kentucky  in  particular .
The Mona Lisa ( La  gioconda  or  la  Joconde ) is a half-length  पोर्ट्रेट   of   a   स्त्री  by the Italian  कलाकार  Leonardo da  विंची  , which has been acclaimed as ``  the  best  ज्ञात   ,  the most visited , the most written about  ,  the most  सुंग  about  ,   the  most parodied work of art  in  the world .  ''
the   पेंटिंग   ,   विचार   to   be  a  पोर्ट्रेट   of  Lisa  gherardini  , the  बीवी  of Francesco  डेल   giocondo  , is in  आयल  on  a   poplar  panel  ,  and is  believed   to  have  महरूम  painted between 1503 and 1506 .
it  was acquired  by  King  फ्रांसिस  I of  फ़्रांस   और   is  now the property of the French Republic , on permanent display at the  musée   du  Louvre in Paris  चूंकि  1797  .
The  ambiguity   of  the subject 's  अभिव्यक्ति   ,  which is  अक्सर  described as  enigmatic   ,  the  monumentality  of the  संयोजन   ,  the  हल्का   मॉडलिंग  of  फ़ॉर्म   और  the  वायुमंडलीय  illusionism were novel  qualities   कि   have  contributed  to  the continuing  fascination  and  पढ़ाई  of the work .
Robert Allen  पामर   (  19  जनवरी  1949 –  26   सितंबर   2003  ) , was an English singer-songwriter  और   संगीतकार   .
He  थी   ज्ञात   लिये   उसके   distinctive  voice and the eclectic mix of musical styles on his albums ,  combining   आत्मा   ,  jazz  ,   चट्टान   ,   पॉप   ,   रेगी   और   ब्लूज़   .
he  found  कामयाबी   दोनो  in  उसके  solo career and in the  musical  act The  शक्ति   स्टेशन   ,  and had Top 10 songs in both  the   uk  and the US  .
His  iconic  music videos by Terence Donovan  लिये  the hits `` Addicted  to   प्रेम  ``  और  ``  बस  Irresistible `` featured  identically  dressed  नाचना  women with  पाले   चेहरों   ,   अंधेरा   नजर  makeup and bright red  लिपस्टिक   ,   जिससे  resembled the women in the art  of  Patrick Nagel  ,  an artist popular in the 1980s .
Sharp-suited  ,   उसके  involvement  in   the   म्यूज़िक  industry commenced  in  the 1960s  ,  covered  पाँच   दशकों   और   शामिल  a  वर्तनी   साथ   सिरका  Joe .
पामर  received a number  of   पुरस्कार   throughout   उसके  career  ,  including  दो   ग्रैमी  Awards  लिये  Best  पुरूष  Rock Vocal Performance ,  an   एमटीवी   वीडियो  Music  पुरस्कार  ,  और   थी  twice  मनोनीत  for the  ब्रिट  Award for  बेहतरीन   अंग्रेजों   पुरूष  .
computed  tomography angiography  (  CTA  )  is a computed tomography technique used  to  visualize arterial  और  venous vessels  throughout  the  देह   .
इस  ranges from arteries serving  the  brain  to  those bringing blood to the lungs  ,   गुर्दे  ,  बाहें  and legs .
The Champs-Élysées decorated  साथ  flags  लिये  Bastille  दिन
horseman   of  the French  रिपब्लिकन  Guard during the 2007 military parade on the Champs-Élysées .
prise   de  la Bastille by  jean-pierre-louis-laurent  Houel
bastille  Day  is  the name  दिए  in English-speaking  देशों  to the  फ्रेंच  National  दिन   ,  which  is   मनाये   on   the  14th  of   जुलाई   प्रत्येक   साल  .
In France , it  is  formally  पुकारा  La  fête  Nationale ( ; The  नेशनल   जश्न   )  and  commonly   le  quatorze juillet (  ;   the  fourteenth  of  July )  .
It commemorates  the  1790 Fête de la Fédération , held  on  the  पहला  anniversary of the storming of  the  Bastille on 14  जुलाई  1789 ; the anniversary of the storming of the Bastille fortress-prison was seen as  a   प्रतीक  of the  uprising   of   the   आधुनिक  nation , and  of  the reconciliation of  सब   the  French inside the constitutional monarchy which  preceded   the   पहला  Republic ,  दौरान  the  फ्रेंच   क्रान्ति   .
Festivities and official  ceremonies  are held all over  फ़्रांस  .
The oldest and  largest  regular  सैन्य   परेड  in Europe  is   आयोजित   on   the  morning of 14 July , on  the  Champs-Élysées avenue in Paris in front of  the  President of the  गणतंत्र  ,  फ्रेंच  officials and  विदेशी   अतिथि  .
the  United  राज्य  of America ( USA  or  U.S.A. ) ,  commonly  called  the  United  राज्य   (  US  or  U.S. ) or America  ,  is  a  federal  गणतंत्र  consisting of  पचास   राज्य  and  a  federal  ज़िला  .
The  निम्नतर  forty-eight contiguous  राज्य  and  the   संघीय   ज़िला   of  Washington , D.C. are in central North America between  कनाडा  and Mexico  .
The  राज्य  of Alaska is west  of   कनाडा  and  ईस्ट   of   रूस  across the Bering  जलसन्धि  , and  the  state  of  Hawaii  is   in  the  mid-north   प्रशांत   .
The  देश   भी   रै  five populated and nine unpopulated  territories  in the  प्रशांत   और   the   caribbean  .
At 3.79 million  वर्गाकार   मील  ( 9.83 million km2  )  and  साथ   around   315   लाख  people ,  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   is   the   third-  or fourth-largest country by total area  और   the  third-largest  by   दोनो  land  क्षेत्रफल   और  population  .
It is  एक  of the  संसार  's most  ethnically  diverse  और   multicultural  nations , the product of large-scale  आव्रजन  from many countries .
the  geography and climate  of  the U.S.  is  also extremely  विविध  ,  साथ  deserts , plains ,  वनों  ,  और   kyu  that are  घर   to  a  चौड़ी   किस्में  of species  .
paleoindians  migrated  इससे  Asia to  कया  is now  the  United States mainland around 15,000  सालो   पहले  .
After 1500 ,  बूढ़ा   संसार   रोगों   introduced   by  Europeans greatly  घटाया  their  populations   .
European colonization began around 1600 and  आए  mostly from  इंग्लैण्ड   .
The United  राज्य  emerged  इससे  thirteen British colonies located along the  अटलांटिक  seaboard .
Disputes between Great Britain  और  the American colonies led to  the   अमरीकी  Revolution .
On July  4  , 1776 ,  delegates  from  the  13  colonies   unanimously   जारी  the Declaration of  स्वतंत्रता  , which  स्थापित   the  United States of  अमेरिका  .
the  American Revolutionary War ,  जिससे  ended with  the   मान्यता  of  स्वतंत्रता  of  the  United  राज्य  from  the   किंगडम  of  ग्रेट  Britain  ,  was the  पहला   कामयाब  war of independence  विरूद्ध   a  European colonial  साम्राज्य  .
the   वर्तमान  Constitution  थी  adopted  on   सितंबर  17 ,  1787  ; twenty-seven  amendments   have   चूंकि   महरूम  added to the Constitution  .
The  पहला   टेन  amendments ,  collectively  named the Bill of Rights , were ratified  in  1791 and guarantee many  आधारभूत   सिविल   अधिकारों  and  freedoms   .
Driven by the doctrine of manifest  नियति  ,  the  United States embarked on a  vigorous  expansion across North America throughout the  19th  century .
This involved displacing native  जनजातियों   ,  acquiring new territories ,  और  gradually  admitting   नई  states  .
The American  सिविल   युद्ध  ended legalized slavery in the United States  .
By the  समाप्त   of  the  उन्नीसवीं  century ,  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   विस्तारित  into the  प्रशांत   समंदर   ,  and its economy was  the   संसार   's  largest  .
The Spanish–American War and confirmed the country 's  औकात  as a global military  शक्ति   .
the  United States  उभरा   इससे   as  a global superpower , the  पहला  country  साथ  nuclear weapons ,  और   a  permanent  सदस्य  of  the  United Nations  सुरक्षा   परिषद   .
The  समाप्त   of  the  ठंडा  War and the dissolution of  the   सोवियत  Union  बाएँ   the  United  राज्य   as   the  sole  महाशक्ति   .
The United States  is   a   विकसित   देश   और  has the  संसार  's largest  नेशनल  economy , with  an   अनुमानित  2012 GDP  of   $  15.6 trillion  19  % of global  जीडीपी   at  purchasing-power  पैरिटी  ,  as  of  2011  .
The per capita GDP of the U.S. was the world 's  sixth-highest  as of 2010 ,  हालांकि  America 's wealth inequality was  भी   क्रमित  highest among  oecd   देशों   by  the World Bank .
the   अर्थव्यवस्था  is fueled  by   an  abundance of natural  संसाधन  , a well-developed infrastructure ,  और  high productivity ;  और   जबकि  its  अर्थव्यवस्था  is considered  post-industrial  it continues to be  एक  of  the  world  's   largest   निर्माताओं   .
The country accounts for  39  %  of   वैश्विक  military  बिता  , and is  a  leading economic  ,  political , and  सांस्कृतिक  force in the  संसार  , as well  as   a   नेता  in  वैज्ञानिक   शोध   और  technological  नवीनता  .
The NCAA Men  's   प्रभाग   i   बास्केट   चैंपियनशिप  is a  single-elimination   टूर्नामेंट  played  प्रत्येक   वसन्त  in the United States , currently featuring 68 college  बास्केट   टीमों   ,  to  determine   the  national  चैंपियनशिप  of the  प्रमुख   कॉलेज  basketball teams .
The tournament  ,  organized by the National  कॉलेजिएट  Athletic Association  (  NCAA  )  , was created during  1939  by the National  संघ   of   बास्केट   कोच  ,  और  was the  विचार  of  ओहियो  State  विश्वविद्यालयों   कोच  Harold  olsen  .
Played  ज़्यादातर  during March , it is  ज्ञात  informally as March  दीवानगी  or  the  Big Dance  ,   और  has  become  one of the most  प्रसिद्ध  annual  sporting   कार्यक्रम  in the United States  .
The NCAA  रै  credited Bob  वाल्श  of  the   सिएटल  Organizing Committee for  starting  the March  दीवानगी  celebration during  1984  .
The tournament teams include champions from 31  प्रभाग  I conferences ( which  प्राप्त  automatic  बोलियों   )  , and  37  teams  जिससे  are awarded at-large  berths  .
These ``  at-large  '' teams  हैं   चुनी   by  an  ncaa  selection  कमेटी  ,  as  detailed below .
the  64  टीमों  are divided  into   चार   regions   और   व्यवस्थित   into   a  single elimination `` bracket ''  ,  which  predetermines  , when a team wins  a  game , which team it will face next .
प्रत्येक  team  is  `` seeded '' , or ranked  ,   भीतर   इसके  region  .
बाद  an  आरंभिक  four  खेल   between   आठ  lower-ranked teams ,  the   टूर्नामेंट   occurs  during the course of  तीन  weekends  ,   at   pre-selected  neutral  साइट  around  the  United  राज्य   .
Lower-ranked teams  हैं   लगाई   in  the bracket against higher ranked  टीमों   .
Each weekend  eliminates  three-fourths  of  the  टीमों  , from  a  round of 64 ,  to   a   ``   मीठी   सोलह  ''  ,  and  लिये   the  last  वीकेंड   of   the  Tournament  a  Final  चार  ;  the  Final Four is usually played  दौरान   the  first weekend of April .
ये  four  टीमों  , one  इससे   प्रत्येक   प्रदेश  ,  तब   compete  in one location  लिये   the  national  चैंपियनशिप  .
the  tournament has been at least  partially  televised since  1969   .
Presently ,  the  games are reported  by  CBS  ,  TBS , TNT , and truTV  by   the  trade-name NCAA March  दीवानगी  .
चूंकि   2011  , all games  हैं   उपलब्धियाँ  for viewing nationwide .
as   टेलीविज़न   कवरेज   रै   grown   ,   so   too  has the  टूर्नामेंट   's   लोकप्रियता  .
presently   ,   लाखो  of Americans ``  भरण   आउट  a  कोष्ठक   ''   ,  predicting  विजेता   of  all  67   खेल   .
साथ   11   नेशनल   शीर्षक   ,  UCLA  रै   the  record for the most  ncaa  Men  's  Division  i  Basketball Championships ; John Wooden  coached   ucla   to   10  of  इसके   11  titles  .
the  University of  केंटकी  is second , with 8 national  शीर्षक  ,  जबकि  Indiana  विश्वविद्यालयों   और  the University  of   उत्तर   कैरोलिना   हैं  tied  लिये   तीसरा  with  5   नेशनल   शीर्षक   .
ड्यूक  University ranks  पांचवां   साथ   4   नेशनल  titles .
A  नमूना  of synthetic motor  आयल
सिंथेटिक   आयल  is a lubricant  consisting   of   रासायनिक  compounds that are artificially made (  synthesized  ) .
सिंथेटिक  lubricants  can   be  manufactured using chemically modified petroleum  components  rather than  पूरे   crude  oil  ,  but can  भी  be  synthesized  from other raw materials .
Synthetic  आयल   is  used  as  a substitute for  स्नेहक   परिष्कृत   इससे  petroleum when operating in  extremes   of   तापमान  ,  क्युकी  , in general ,  it  provides superior mechanical and chemical  गुण   than  those  मिला  in traditional  खनिज  oils  .
वायुयान   जेट   इंजन  ,  लिये  example ,  आवश्यकता  the  उपयोग   of  synthetic oils , whereas aircraft piston engines do not  .
बेवकूफ़   is   an  American reality  श्रेणी  , originally shown on MTV  इससे  2000 to 2002 , featuring  लोगों   performing  various dangerous ,  crude  self-injuring stunts and  pranks  .
The  दिखाएँ  served as  a   launchpad   लिये   the  television and acting  करियर  of Bam Margera , Steve-O  ,   और  also Johnny Knoxville  ,  who previously had  तभी  a few minor acting  भूमिकाएँ   .
Since 2002 , three  बेवकूफ़   films   have  been  उत्पादित  and released  by  MTV corporate  सहोदर   सर्वोपरि  Pictures  ,   continuing   the  franchise  बाद  its run  on  television .
the   दिखाएँ   sparked  several spin-offs including Viva La  bam  , Wildboyz  ,  Homewrecker ,  dr.  Steve-O and Blastazoid  .
the  show placed # 68  on  Entertainment Weekly `` New  tv  Classics '' list .
Roseanne  cherrie   barr   (   born   नवम्बर   3  , 1952 )  is   an   अमरीकी   अभिनेत्री   ,  comedienne  ,   लेखक  , television  निर्माता  ,  निदेशक  , and 2012 presidential nominee  of  the California -based Peace and Freedom  पार्टी  .
barr   began  her  करियर   in  stand-up comedy  at  clubs before  gaining   कीर्ति  for  उसके   भूमिका   in   the   sitcom  Roseanne .
the  show was a  hit   और   lasted   नौ   सीज़न  , from  1988  to 1997  .
She won both an  एमी   और   a   सुनहरी  Globe Award  लिये   बेहतरीन   अभिनेत्री   लिये   उसके   कार्य  on  the   दिखाएँ  .
barr  had  crafted  a ``  fierce  working-class  घरेलू  goddess ''  persona   in   the  eight  सालो  preceding  उसके  sitcom and wanted  to  do a realistic  दिखाएँ  about a strong mother  जो   थी  not  a   शिकार  of  patriarchal  consumerism .
The  पोती  of  आप्रवासियों  from Europe and  रूस   ,   barr  was the  oldest  of  चार  children  in  a working-class  यहूदी  Salt Lake City family ; she  थी   भी  active in the LDS  गिरिजाघर   .
in  1974  ,   वो  married Bill  pentland   ,   साथ  whom she  था   तीन   children  , before  divorcing   in  1990  और   marrying  comedian Tom Arnold for  चार  years  .
Controversy arose when she sang  ``   the  Star-Spangled Banner ``  off-key  at  a   1990   nationally  aired baseball game ,  followed   by   grabbing   उसके   crotch   और  spitting .
After her sitcom  ended  , she  शुभारम्भ   उसके  own talk show  ,   the   roseanne  Show  ,  which  aired   इससे  1998  to   2000  .
in  2005  ,  she returned to  stand-up   कॉमेडी  with a world tour  .
in  2011  ,  she starred  in   an   unscripted  TV show , Roseanne 's Nuts , that lasted from July to September of that year  ,  about her life on  a   हवाई  farm .
In early  2012   ,   barr  announced her  उम्मीदवारी  for the  अध्यक्षीय  nomination  of   the   ग्रीन   पार्टी  .
Barr  खोया   the  nomination to Jill  स्टीन   .
वो  then sought  the   अध्यक्षीय  nomination  of   the  Peace and  स्वतंत्रता  Party  ,  which she  जीती  on  अगस्त  4 , 2012  .
barr  received 61,971  मत   in  the general election , placing sixth overall  .
Francesco Albani  's  17th century  बपतिस्मा  of  मसीह  is a typical  चित्रण  with  the   आसमान  opening and  the  Holy Spirit descending as a dove .
The baptism of Jesus  marks  the beginning of his public  मंत्रालय  .
This  इवेंट   is  recorded in  the  canonical  gospels   of  Matthew , Mark  और  Luke .
John 's gospel  करता  not describe  यीशु  ' baptism ,  लकिन  John the  बैपटिस्ट   करता  testify of the  अन्य   बाते   in  .
In the New Testament ,  जॉन  the Baptist preached  the  baptism of repentance  लिये   the  remission  of   पापों  ( )  ,  and  घोषित  himself a  forerunner  of he  कि  would baptize ``  साथ   the  Holy Ghost and  साथ  fire ''  (  ) .
In  so   doing  he  थी   तैयारी   the  way for  यीशु   .
यीशु   आए   to  the Jordan  नदी   जहाँ  he was  baptized   by  John  .
The baptismal scene  शामिल   the   आकाश   खोलने   ,  a dove-like descent  of   the  Holy Spirit  ,   और  a voice from heaven saying  ,   ``   इस  is my  beloved  Son , in whom I  am   खूब  pleased . ''
Most modern scholars  दृश्य  the  फैक्ट  that  यीशु  was baptized  by  John as an historical event to  जिससे  a  ऊँची  degree of certainty can be  आबंटित   .
साथ   साथ  the  crucifixion  of Jesus most  विद्वानों   दृश्य   it   as  one of  the  two historically  निश्चित  facts about him ,  और   प्रायः  use  it   as  the starting  अंक  for  the  study of  the  historical Jesus .
The baptism is one of  the  five major milestones in the  इन्जील   कथा  of the life of Jesus , the  अन्य   होने   the  Transfiguration  ,   crucifixion   ,  Resurrection  ,   और   आरोहण  .
Most Christian  denominations   दृश्य  the  बपतिस्मा  of Jesus  as  an important event  और  a  आधार  for the Christian rite  of  baptism  (  see also )  .
In Eastern  christianity   ,  Jesus  '  baptism is commemorated  on  6 January ,  the  feast of  epiphany   .
In  the   रोमन  Catholic Church , the  anglican   नियाज़   ,   the   लूथरन  Churches and  कुछ   अन्य  Western  denominations  ,  it   is   recalled  on a day within the  following   सप्ताह  ,  the  feast of  the  baptism of  the  Lord .
in  Roman Catholicism , the baptism  of  Jesus is one of  the  Luminous  रहस्यों   sometimes  added  to  the Rosary  .
It is  a  Trinitarian  feast   in   the  Eastern  परंपरागत  Churches  .
methylcobalamin   (  shown  )  is  a  form of vitamin B12 .
Physically it  resembles  the other forms of vitamin B12  ,   occurring  as dark  रेड   crystals  that  freely  form  cherry-colored  transparent solutions  in   जल   .
Vitamin B12 , vitamin B12  or  vitamin  b-12   ,   भी  called  cobalamin  , is a water-soluble  विटामिन  with  a   कुंजी   भूमिका  in  the  normal functioning of  the  brain and  बेचैन  system , and  लिये   the  formation  of  blood .
it  is  एक  of the  आठ  B vitamins .
It is  सामान्यतः   शामिल   in   the   चयापचय   of   प्रत्येक  cell of the  इंसान   देह   ,   विशेषकर  affecting DNA synthesis  और  regulation , but also  वसीय  acid synthesis and energy production .
Neither  fungi  , plants , nor animals  हैं  capable of  producing  vitamin B12  .
Only  जीवाणु  and archaea  have   the   एंजाइमों  required for  इसके  synthesis , although many foods are  a   प्राकृतिक  source  of  B12  क्युकी   of  bacterial symbiosis  .
The vitamin is the largest and most  structurally  complicated  विटामिन   और   can  be  उत्पादित   industrially   तभी   through  bacterial fermentation-synthesis  .
विटामिन   b12  consists of a class  of  chemically related  यौगिकों   (  vitamers ) , all of  जिससे  have  विटामिन  activity .
it  contains the  biochemically   विरल   तत्व  cobalt  .
Biosynthesis of the  मौलिक  structure  of  the vitamin is accomplished only  by   जीवाणु   (   जिससे   प्रायः  produce  hydroxocobalamin  )  ,   लकिन  conversion  between  different forms  of  the vitamin can  be   संपन्नता  in  the   इंसान  body .
A  आम   semi-synthetic   रूप  of the vitamin ,  cyanocobalamin   ,  does  नहीं  occur  in  nature  ,  but is  उत्पादित  from bacterial hydroxocobalamin and  तब   प्रयुक्त   in  many pharmaceuticals  और   पूरक  ,  और  as a  खाना   योगात्मक  ,  क्युकी  of its stability  और  lower  उत्पादन  cost .
In the body  it   is   परिवर्तित  to the  इंसान   physiological  forms methylcobalamin  और  adenosylcobalamin ,  leaving  behind the cyanide , albeit  in  minimal concentration  .
अधिक  recently ,  hydroxocobalamin   ,   methylcobalamin  ,  और  adenosylcobalamin can be found in more  महंगी  pharmacological products  और  food supplements  .
the   अतिरिक्त  utility of these is  फिलहाल   debated  .
Vitamin B12  थी  discovered  इससे  its  संबंध  to  the   बीमारी  pernicious anemia  ,  which is  an  autoimmune  बीमारी   in   जिससे   parietal  cells of  the   पेट  responsible for  secreting  intrinsic factor are destroyed  .
मूलभूत  factor  is   निर्णायक   लिये  the normal absorption of B12  ,   so   a  lack of intrinsic  फ़ैक्टर  ,  as   देखी  in  घातक  anemia  ,   कल्याणकारी   a  vitamin B12 deficiency .
अनेक  other subtler kinds of  विटामिन   b12   कमियां   और  their biochemical effects  have   चूंकि   महरूम   elucidated  .
Full Metal Jacket is a  1987  war  फिल्मी   उत्पादित  , directed  और  co-written by Stanley Kubrick .
It  is  an  अनुकूलन   of  Gustav Hasford  's   1979  novel  the  Short-Timers and  सितारों   मैथ्यू  Modine , Vincent  d'onofrio  , R.  ली   ermey  ,  arliss  Howard , and Adam Baldwin .
the   फिल्मी  follows  a   प्लाटून  of U.S. Marines through  उनके   प्रशिक्षण   और   the   अनुभवों   of   दो  of the platoon  's   marines  in  the  Tet  अप्रिय  during the Vietnam  युद्ध  .
The film 's  शीर्षक  refers to the full  मेटल  jacket bullet used  by  infantry  riflemen  .
the  film  प्राप्त  critical acclaim  .
It received an Academy Award  नामांकन  for Best Adapted  पटकथा   लिये  Kubrick , Michael Herr and Gustav  hasford   .
in  2001  ,   the   अमरीकी  Film  संस्थान  placed  पूरा  Metal Jacket at # 95 in  उनके  `` AFI  's  100  सालो  ... 100  thrills  `` poll  .
TMZ  is   a   हस्ती  news website that  debuted   on   नवम्बर  8  ,   2005  .
It was a collaboration between  एओएल  and  telepictures  Productions , a  प्रभाग  of Warner  भाईs.  ,  जबतक   समय  Warner  divested  AOL  in  2009 .
however  ,  it  remained  संबद्ध   साथ  AOL  न्यूज   और   रै   the  AOL  न्यूज   लोगो  affixed in the  अपर  right corner  .
The name TMZ stands  लिये  the historic ``  स्टुडियो  zone  ``  or  30-mile  zone radius  इससे   the  intersection  of  West  बेवर्ली  Boulevard and North La Cienega  boulevard   in  Los Angeles .
TMZ 's  मैनेजिंग  editor  is  Harvey  levin   ,   a   lawyer-turned-journalist   जो   थी  previously a legal  विशेषज्ञ  for  the  Los  एंजिल्स   टेलीविज़न  station KCBS-TV .
the   साईट  claims that it does not pay  लिये  stories or interviews ; however , Levin has  admitted  that  tmz   करता  `` sometimes  अदा   स्त्रोत  for leads  on  stories  ''  .
Levin  रै   stated  that `` everything is  शोधकार्य  and  vetted  for  सटीकता   .  ''
A  साथी  TV  श्रेणी   ,  TMZ  on  TV , debuted  on  September  10  ,  2007  .
चीख   3  is a  2000  American slasher  फिल्मी  created by Kevin Williamson  ,   निर्देशित   by   वेस  Craven and  लिखा  by Ehren  क्रूगर  , starring  neve  Campbell  ,  Courteney  कॉक्स   arquette   और  David Arquette .
it  was  released   on  February 4  ,   2000  as the third installment  in  the Scream film series .
The events  of  the story  हैं   नियत   तीन  years after  those  of Scream 2  और   फ़ॉलो   sidney   प्रेस्कॉट  ( Campbell  )   जो  has  गए   into  self-imposed isolation following the events of the  पिछला  two films but is  drawn   to  Hollywood  बाद  a new  ghostface  begins killing  the  cast of the film within a  फिल्मी   ``  Stab 3  ''  .
Scream  3  combines the violence  of   the   slasher   विधा  with comedy and ``  whodunit  `` mystery  जबकि   satirizing  the cliché of film  trilogies  .
Unlike  the   पिछला   चीख   films  , there was an increased emphasis  on   comedic  elements and  the   हिंसा   और  horror  थी  reduced  in  response  to   increased   पब्लिक  scrutiny  परिचय  violence in media  following  the Columbine High School  नरसंहार  .
the  film was the concluding  अध्याय  of  the  Scream  श्रेणी   जबतक  it was revived with  a   sequel  ,  चीख   4  , in  2011  .
विलियमसन  provided  a   five-page  outline  लिये  two sequels to Scream  जब  auctioning  उसके   असली  script , hoping  to  entice  bidders   साथ  the  संभावित   of  buying a  मताधिकार  .
Williamson 's  प्रतिज्ञाओं  to other  प्रोजेक्ट   meant   he  was  असमर्थ  to develop a complete script for Scream 3  और   लिखने  duties were  undertaken  by Ehren Kruger  जो   discarded   much  of  विलियमसन   's  notes .
Craven  और  Marco  beltrami  returned to direct  और  score  the  film  क्रमशः  as  वे   था  with the previous two  श्रेणी  entries .
उत्पादन   थी  troubled  साथ  script rewrites  ,  with  पृष्ठों  sometimes only ready  on  the day of filming ,  और  scheduling  कठिनाइयों  with  the  main cast .
Scream  3   performed  both  financially  and critically worse  than   इसके  preceding films ,  कमाई   over   $   161  million  और  with  अनेक  critics  claiming   कि  the  फिल्मी   था   become  what Scream originally  ``   spoofed  ``  .
despite  negative criticism  the   फिल्मी  did receive praise  साथ  reviewers calling  it  the perfect end to  the   चीख   त्रयी  .
As of  2012   ,  the  फिल्मी  is currently  the  number  3  highest-grossing  slasher-film  in North America , following  चीख   at  number 1 and Scream 2 at number 2  .
The  फिल्मी  's  साउंडट्रैक  was well-received  ,  spending fourteen  सप्ताह   on   the   बिलबोर्ड  200 and reaching  a  high of # 32 .
कंधे  impingement syndrome  ,  also called painful arc syndrome ,  supraspinatus   सिंड्रोम   ,  swimmer  's   कंधे  ,  और  thrower 's shoulder ,  is  a  नैदानिक   सिंड्रोम  which  occurs   जब   the   tendons  of  the  rotator  कफ  muscles become irritated and  inflamed  as they pass through  the   subacromial  space  ,  the passage beneath the acromion .
इस  can  परिणाम  in  पीड़ा   ,  weakness  और  loss  of   गति  at  the  shoulder .
JLA  थी  a monthly comic book published by DC  कॉमिक्स   इससे  January  1997   to  April  2006   featuring   the  Justice League .
the  colonial  इतिहास  of  the   संयुक्त  States  कवर  the history  of  European settlements from the  प्रारंभ  of colonization  of  America until their incorporation into the  संयुक्त  States  .
In the late  16th  century ,  इंग्लैण्ड  ,  फ़्रांस   ,  Spain and the Netherlands launched  प्रमुख   colonization  programs in eastern North America  .
Small  जल्दी  attempts—such  as  the English Lost Colony of Roanoke —often disappeared  ;  everywhere  the   मौत   रेट  of the first arrivals  थी  very  ऊँची  .
Nevertheless  कामयाब  colonies were established .
European settlers  आए   इससे  a variety  of   सोशल  and religious groups  .
No  aristocrats  settled permanently  ,   लकिन   a   क्रमांक  of  adventurers  ,  सैनिको  ,  किसानो  , and tradesmen  arrived  .
Diversity  थी  an American characteristic as the Dutch  of  New  netherland   ,   the   swedes   और   finns  of New Sweden , the English Quakers of Pennsylvania  ,  the English Puritans of New  इंग्लैण्ड   ,   the  English settlers of  jamestown   ,   और   the  ``  worthy  poor ''  of  Georgia , came  to  the  नई   महाद्वीप  and  निर्मित  colonies  साथ  distinctive social , religious , political  और   आर्थिक  styles  .
occasionally   एक  colony took  कंट्रोल   of  another ( during wars  between  their European  अभिभावक  ) .
Only in  नोवा  Scotia ( now part  of  Canada )  किया  the conquerors expel the  पिछला  colonists .
बजाय   वे   सब  lived side by side in  सलाम   .
There  यहूद   no  major civil  युद्धों   among   the   13  colonies ,  और  the two  मुख्य  armed  विद्रोहों  ( in Virginia in 1676 and in New  यॉर्क   in   1689–91  )  यहूद  short-lived failures .
युद्धों  between  the  French  और   the  British—the French and  भारतीय   युद्धों   और  Father Rale 's War  —were  recurrent , and involved French-support for  wabanaki  Confederacy  हमले   on  the frontiers .
By 1760 France was defeated  और  the  अंग्रेजों  seized its  colonies  .
The four  पृथक  regions were  :  New England  ,  the  मध्य   colonies  , the  chesapeake   खाड़ी   colonies   (   अपर   दक्षिण  )  और  the Lower  दक्षिण  .
Some  इतिहासकारों  add  a  fifth region , the Frontier ,  जिससे   थी   never  separately organized .
By  the   समय   यूरोपीय  settlers  arrived   around   1600–1650  , the  बहुमत   of   the   देशी  Americans  जीना  in  the  eastern  संयुक्त   राज्य  had been decimated by  नई  diseases  ,   introduced   to   उन्हें  decades before  by   explorers   और  sailors .
देखिए   समयरेखा  of Colonial America for  सूची  of  ऐतिहासिक   कार्यक्रम  .
ग्लोरिया  Laura Vanderbilt (  born  February 20  ,  1924  )  is an American artist  ,  author ,  अभिनेत्री  , heiress  ,  and  socialite  most noted  as   an  early  डेवलपर   of  designer  ब्लू  jeans  .
She is  a   सदस्य  of the prominent Vanderbilt family of New York and  the  mother of CNN 's Anderson  कूपर  .
Greece ( Romanization of  greek|   )  , officially the Hellenic  गणतंत्र   (  ' ) , is a country in  southeast  Europe .
according  to the  2011   जनसांख्यिकी  ,  यूनानियों  's  जनसांख्यिकी   is   around   11  million .
एथेंस  is the nation 's capital  और   largest   नगर  ,  इसके   शहरी  area also including Piraeus  .
यूनानियों   is   रणनीतिक  located at the  क्रॉसरोड्स   of  Europe ,  एशिया   ,  the  मध्य  East , and Africa , and  रै  land  सीमायें   साथ   अल्बानियाई  , the  गणतंत्र   of   मकदूनिया  and  बुल्गारिया  to  the   उत्तर  , and Turkey to the northeast  .
The  ईजियन  Sea lies to the east of  मेनलैंड  Greece  ,   the  Ionian Sea to the  वेस्ट  , and  the   भूमध्यसागरीय  Sea to the  दक्षिण  .
Greece  रै  the  11th   longest   तटरेखा   in   the  world  at   in   लंबाई  , featuring a  विशाल   क्रमांक  of islands (  लगभग  1,400 ,  of  which 227  हैं  inhabited ) , including Crete , the Dodecanese , the Cyclades  ,  and the  आयोनियन  Islands  among   अन्य  .
अस्सी   प्रतिशत  of Greece consists of mountains ,  of  which  माउंट  Olympus  is   the  highest  at   .
Modern Greece traces  इसके  roots to the  सभ्यता  of Ancient Greece  ,  generally considered  the  cradle  of  Western civilization  .
as   ऐसे   ,   it   is  the birthplace of  लोकतंत्र  ,  पश्चिमी  philosophy , the Olympic  खेल  , Western literature  और  historiography , political  विज्ञान  , major  वैज्ञानिक  and  गणितीय   सिद्धान्त  , and Western  नाटक  , including both tragedy and comedy .
This legacy  is  partly  reflected   in  the seventeen UNESCO  संसार  Heritage Sites located in Greece , ranking it 7th  in  Europe  और   13th   in   the   संसार  .
the  modern  यूनानी  state was established  in  1830  ,   following  the Greek War  of   स्वतंत्रता   .
Greece  is   a  founding member of  the   संयुक्त  Nations  ,   रै   महरूम  a  सदस्य   of   कया  is now  the   यूरोपीय  Union since  1981  ( and  the  eurozone since  2001   )  , and  रै   महरूम   a  member of NATO  चूंकि  1952 .
यूनानियों  is a developed country with an  उन्नत  ,  high-income  economy and  बहुत   ऊँची   मानकों   of  living  ,   सहित  the world  's  21st highest  विशेषता  of life  as  of 2010 .
Greece  's  economy  is   भी   the  largest in the Balkans , where  यूनानियों  is an important regional investor .
A  प्रधान  meridian is  a  meridian  ,  i.e  .   a  line  of   देशांतर   ,   at  which  देशांतर  is  पारिभाषित  to  be  0°  .
A  प्रधान   मध्याह्न  and  इसके  opposite in a 360°-system , the  180th  meridian ( at  180°   देशांतर  )  ,  form a  ग्रेट  circle  .
इस   ग्रेट  circle  divides  the sphere ,  e.g  .  the   धरती  ,  into   दो   बांटती   .
if   एक  uses directions of East  और   वेस्ट  from a  पारिभाषित  prime meridian ,  तब   वे   can  be  पुकारा  Eastern Hemisphere and  पश्चिमी  Hemisphere .
gerardus  Mercator in his Atlas Cosmographicae  (   1595  )  उपयोग   a  prime  मध्याह्न   कही   बंद   to   25°w   ,  passing just to the  वेस्ट   of  Santa  मरिया  Island in  the   अटलांटिक  .
His 180th meridian runs  साथ   the   जलसन्धि  of Anián  (   बेरिंग  Strait  )
A prime meridian is  ultimately  arbitrary  ,   नापसंद  an  equator  ,  जिससे   is  determined by the axis of rotation—and various conventions have been used or advocated in  अलग  regions  और  throughout history .
Minka Dumont  केली   (  born  minka   dumont  Dufay ; June  24  , 1980 ) is an  अमरीकी  actress .
She is perhaps  बेहतरीन  known for  उसके  roles in  चार्ली  's Angels , Friday Night  लाइट्स  , and The  रूममेट  .
R.O.B . (  रोबोटिक   ऑपरेटिंग  Buddy  )  ,  released  in  जापानी   as  the ,  is  an  accessory   लिये   the   निन्टेंडो  Entertainment  प्रणाली  ( NES )  .
It was released in July 1985 in Japan  और  later that year in  उत्तर  America  .
it   था  a short  उत्पाद   जीवनकाल  , with support for only  दो   खेल   जिससे  comprised  the   ``  Robot Series '' ; Gyromite and Stack-Up .
r.o.b  .  थी  released  साथ   the   इरादे   of   portraying  the Nintendo Entertainment System as  कुछ   अनोखा  in order to alleviate  खुदरा   fears  following the  वीडियो   खेल  crash of  1983  .
R.O.B .  थी  available  in   the   डीलक्स   नियत  ,  a  configuration for the  कंसोल  that included , among other  बाते   ,  R.O.B  .  and  gyromite  .
Stack-Up was purchased separately and included  इसके   अपना  physical game pieces  .
The Walking  स्वतंत्रता  half  डालर  was a  चांदी   50-cent  piece or half dollar coin issued by the United States Mint from  1916  to  1947  ; it was designed by Adolph  A.   weinman  .
In 1915 ,  the  new Mint Director  ,   रॉबर्ट   W.   woolley   ,  came  to  believe  कि   he  was  नहीं   तभी   अनुमत  but  जरूरी   by  law to replace coin designs  कि   था  been  in  use for  25   सालो  .
he   इसलिए   began  the process of replacing  the   नाई   coinage  : dimes ,  quarters  and  हाफ   डॉलर  , all bearing  समान   डिजाइन  by long-time  मिंट  Engraver Charles  E.  Barber  ,  and first struck  in   1892  .
Woolley  था   the  Commission  of  Fine Arts conduct a competition , as  a  result of  जिससे   weinman   थी   चयनित  to  डिज़ाइन  the dime and  हाफ  dollar .
weinman   's  design  of  Liberty striding towards the  सूर्य  for  the  half dollar  proved  difficult to perfect ,  और  Treasury  सचिव  William G. McAdoo  ,   जिनकी   विभाग  included  the  Mint  ,  considered having Barber create  उसके  own design .
मिंट   officials  were  कामयाब   in   getting  Weinman 's design  into  production  ,   हालांकि  it  never   struck  very well , which may have been a  फ़ैक्टर   in   इसके   बदलना  by  the  Franklin  हाफ   डालर  beginning  in   1948  .
Nevertheless , art  इतिहासकार   कॉर्नेलियस  Vermeule  माना  the piece  to   be  among the  सबसे   खूबसूरत   us   सिक्के   .
Since  1986   ,  a  परिवर्धन  of  weinman  's obverse design has  महरूम  used for the American Silver Eagle .
the   टोयोटा  4Runner  is  a mid-size sport utility vehicle ( SUV  )  produced  by  the Japanese manufacturer  टोयोटा  and  बेची   throughout  the world from  1984   to  present .
In Japan it  थी  known as the Toyota Hilux  लहरे  .
The original 4Runner was  a   कॉम्पैक्ट  SUV and  छोटी  more  than   a   टोयोटा  pickup truck  साथ  a fiberglass shell over  the  bed  ,  but the model has since undergone significant independent  विकास  into  a  cross between a compact  और  a  mid-size  SUV  .
All  4runners   have   महरूम  built at Toyota 's Tahara plant  in  Tahara  ,   aichi  ,  जापानी  ,  or   at  Hino Motors  '   hamura   ,  Japan plant  ,   और  in Brazil  .
Its mid-size crossover  एसयूवी   बंटवारा  is the  टोयोटा  Highlander .
इस  article  सौदे  with  आयुर्विज्ञान  as practiced by trained  पेशेवर  from  प्राचीन   टाइम्स  to  the  present .
The ancient Egyptians  था   a  system  of   आयुर्विज्ञान   कि  was  बहुत  advanced  लिये   इसके  time  और   बहकावे  later medical traditions .
The Egyptians and Babylonians  दोनो   introduced   the  concepts  of  diagnosis , prognosis  ,  and medical  परिक्षा  .
the   यूनानियों  went even further ,  और   उन्नत  as well medical  आचार  .
The  hippocratic  Oath , still  लिया   by  doctors today , was  लिखा  in Greece  in  the  5th   सदी  BCE .
In  the   मध्यकालीन   era  , surgical practices inherited  इससे  the ancient masters were improved and then systematized in Rogerius  's   the  Practice  of  Surgery .
विश्वविद्यालयों   began  systematic  प्रशिक्षण  of  physicians  around the years 1220 in Italy  .
दौरान   the  Renaissance , understanding  of  anatomy improved , and  the   सूक्ष्मदर्शी  was invented .
The  रोगाणु  theory of  बीमारी  in the 19th century led  to  cures  लिये  many infectious  रोगों  .
Military doctors  उन्नत   the   विधि  of trauma treatment  और   सर्जरी  .
पब्लिक  health measures were developed  विशेषकर  in the 19th century as  the  rapid growth of  शहरों   जरूरी  systematic sanitary measures .
उन्नत  research centers opened  in   the   जल्दी  20th century ,  प्रायः   कनेक्ट  with  प्रमुख   अस्पताल  .
The mid-20th century  थी  characterized by new biological treatments  ,   ऐसे  as antibiotics .
These  advancements  , along with  developments   in   रसायन  ,  आनुवंशिकी  , and  lab   प्रौद्योगिकी  (  ऐसे  as the x-ray ) led to modern  आयुर्विज्ञान   .
Medicine  थी  heavily professionalized in the 20th  सदी  ,  और   नई   करियर   खोली   to  women as nurses ( from  the  1870s  )  and as  physicians  ( especially after 1970 ) .
the  21st  सदी  is characterized by  बहुत   उन्नत  research  involving  numerous fields of science  .
the   hippocratic  Corpus ,  is  a collection  of   जल्दी  medical  works  from  प्राचीन  Greece strongly associated with the ancient Greek  चिकित्सक  Hippocrates and  उसके  teachings  .
पोटैशियम  is  a   रासायनिक  element  साथ  symbol K ( from Neo-Latin kalium  )   और  atomic number  19   .
Elemental  पोटैशियम  is a soft  silvery-white  alkali  मेटल  that oxidizes rapidly  in   एयर  and is very  प्रतिक्रिया  with water , generating  sufficient   ऊष्मा  to ignite  the   हाइड्रोजन   उत्सर्जित  in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame .
क्युकी  potassium  और  sodium  हैं   chemically  very similar  ,   उनके  salts  यहूद  not at first  differentiated   .
The existence of multiple elements  in  their salts was  suspected   इससे  1702  ,  and  इस  was  सिद्ध   in  1807  जब  potassium  और  sodium were  individually   पृथक   इससे  different salts by  electrolysis   .
Potassium  in  nature  occurs  only  in  ionic salts .
As  ऐसे  , it  is  found dissolved in  seawater  ( which  is  0.04  %   पोटैशियम  by weight )  ,  and  is   भाग  of many minerals  .
Most industrial chemical  अनुप्रयोग   of  potassium  employ  the relatively high  घुलनशीलता  in water of  पोटैशियम  compounds , such as potassium  soaps  .
पोटैशियम   मेटल   रै  only a  few  special  अनुप्रयोग  , being replaced in  सबसे   रासायनिक  reactions  साथ  sodium metal .
पोटैशियम   ions  are  जरुरी  for the function of  सब   जीना   कोशिकाएं  .
पोटैशियम  ion  diffusion  is a key mechanism in nerve transmission ,  और  potassium  depletion  in animals , including humans  ,  results  in  various cardiac dysfunctions .
Potassium  accumulates   in   संयंत्र  cells  ,   और  thus fresh  फल  and  सब्जियां   हैं   a  good  dietary   सोर्स  of it  .
Conversely ,  सबसे  plants except specialist  halophytes   हैं  intolerant of salt , and sodium  is   उपस्थित  in  उन्हें   तभी   in  low concentration .
This resulted in potassium  पहला   होने  isolated from potash ,  the  ashes  of  plants , giving the element its name  .
For the same reason ,  भारी   क्रॉप  production  rapidly   depletes  soils of potassium ,  और  agricultural  fertilizers   consume  95  %  of  वैश्विक   पोटैशियम  chemical production  .
The Singapore  डालर  or dollar (  चिह्न  :  $   ;   कोड   :   sgd  )  is   the  official  करेंसी   of  Singapore  .
It  is  normally abbreviated with the dollar sign $  ,   or   alternatively   s   $   to  distinguish  it  from other  डालर  -denominated  मुद्राएँ   .
It  is  divided into 100  सेंट  .
The Monetary  प्राधिकार   of  Singapore  और   the  Brunei Currency and Monetary Board still maintain the historic exchangeability of their  दो   मुद्राएँ  , the  singaporean   डालर   और   the   ब्रुनेई  dollar  ,  respectively  .
The dollar  is   स्वीकृत  as  ``  customary tender  ''   in   ब्रुनेई   according  to the Currency  interchangeability  Agreement .
Likewise , the Brunei  डालर  is  customarily  accepted  in  Singapore
James Samuel  कोलमैन  (  may  12  ,   1926   –  March 25 , 1995  )   थी  an American sociologist , theorist and empirical researcher ,  आधारित  chiefly at the University of Chicago .
He was  निर्वाचित  president of  the   अमरीकी   समाजशास्त्रीय  Association .
Coleman studied  the  sociology of education , public policy , and  थी   एक  of  the  earliest users  of   the  term `` social  पूंजी  ``  .
His Foundations of  सोशल  Theory  बहकावे   समाजशास्त्रीय   सिद्धान्त   .
His  the  Adolescent Society  (  1961 ) and ``  कोलमैन  Report '' (  समता  of Educational Opportunity , 1966  )  were two of the most heavily  cited   किताबे  in  शैक्षणिक   समाजशास्त्र  .
the  landmark Coleman Report helped transform  शैक्षणिक  theory ,  reshape   नेशनल   शिक्षा   नीतियों   ,   और  influenced public and scholarly opinion  regarding  the  भूमिका  of  schooling   in   determining  equality and  उत्पादकता  in the  संयुक्त   राज्य   .
सुपरमैन   (  from DC  कॉमिक्स  ) was the first superhero created ,  आर्ट  by  जिम  Lee  .
a   सुपरहीरो   (   sometimes   rendered   super-hero  or  सुपर  hero ) is a  प्रकार  of stock character  possessing  ``  असाधारण  or superhuman powers  ''  and dedicated  to  protecting the public .
चूंकि   the  debut  of  the  prototypical  superhero Superman  in   1938   ,  stories of  superheroes—ranging  from brief episodic  adventures  to continuing years-long  sagas—have  dominated American  कॉमिक  books and crossed over into  अन्य  media  .
the  word itself dates to  at   तनिक  1917 .
A  मादा   सुपरहीरो  is  sometimes  called a  superheroine  ( also  rendered   super-heroine   or   सुपर  heroine  )   .
``   सुपर  HEROES  ''  is  a  trademark co-owned  by   dc   कॉमिक्स  and Marvel Comics .
by  most definitions ,  वर्ण  do  नहीं   सख्ती  require actual superhuman powers to be deemed  superheroes  ,  हालांकि   शर्तें  such  as  costumed crime fighters or masked  vigilantes   हैं  sometimes used to refer  to  those such  as  Batman  और  Green  तीर  without such powers  जो  share other common  सुपरहीरो   traits  .
Such  वर्ण  were  generally   referred  to as `` mystery men ''  in   the  so-called  सुनहरी  Age of  कॉमिक  Books to distinguish them  इससे  characters with super-powers .
सामान्यतः  ,  superheroes  use  उनके  powers to counter day-to-day crime  जबकि   भी   combating  threats against  मानवता  by supervillains ,  उनके  criminal counterparts  .
Often  ,  one  of   ये  supervillains  होगा  be the  सुपरहीरो  's  archenemy   .
As well  ,   कुछ  longrunning superheroes , such as Superman  ,   बैटमैन   ,  Spider-Man and  आयरन  Man each has a rogues gallery  of   दुश्मनों  .
as  well , superheroes sometimes will combat such  irregular   खतरे  as  एलियंस   ,   magical/  fantasy entities  ,  American war enemies such as nazism or communism , and godlike  or  demonic creatures  .
The following is  a   ऐतिहासिक   सूची   of  actors  और   प्राथमिक  character  भूमिकाएँ   जिससे   appear  on  the  American  साबुन  opera  एक  Life  to  Live  .
The  shawshank  Redemption is  a   1994   अमरीकी  drama film written  और  directed  by  Frank Darabont and  अभिनीत  Tim Robbins  और   मॉर्गन   फ्रीमैन   .
adapted  from the Stephen King novella  रीता   hayworth  and  shawshank  Redemption  ,  the film tells  the   स्टोरी  of  एंडी  Dufresne ,  a   बैंकर  who spends  nearly   दो  decades  in   shawshank  State  थाना   लिये  the murder of  उसके   बीवी  and  उसके  lover  despite  his  दावा   of   innocence  .
During  उसके  time  at   the  prison ,  he   befriends   a   fellow  inmate  ,  Ellis Boyd ``  रेड   ''  Redding  ,  and finds himself protected by the guards after  the   वार्डन   begins   using  him in  उसके  money laundering operation .
Despite a  गुनगुने  box  दफ्तर  reception that  मुश्किल   recouped  its budget , the film received  अनुकूल  reviews  इससे  critics ,  अनेक  award  nominations  ,  और  has since enjoyed  a  remarkable  जीवन   on  cable television  ,  VHS  ,  DVD  ,  and  blu-ray   .
It was included in  the  American Film Institute  's  100  सालो   ...   100  Movies 10th  वर्षगांठ   संस्करण   .
IT  प्रबन्धन  is  the  discipline whereby  सब  of the technology resources of a firm  हैं  managed  in  accordance with its needs  और  priorities  .
ये  resources may  शामिल   ठोस  investments  जैसे  computer  हार्डवेयर  ,  तन्त्र  , data  ,  networks and  आंकड़ा  centre  सुविधाएं  ,  as   खूब   as   the  staffs who are hired  to   maintain  them  .
Managing this responsibility within a  कम्पनी  entails many of the basic  प्रबन्धन  functions , like budgeting ,  स्टॉफ  , and  आयोजन   और  controlling  ,  along  साथ  other aspects that  हैं   अद्वितीय  to technology ,  जैसे  change management  ,   तन्त्र  design  ,  network planning ,  तकनीक  support etc  .
The  penitentiary   of   नई  Mexico  थाना   riot  ,  जिससे   took  place on February 2  और  3 ,  1980   ,  in  the  state  's  maximum security  थाना  south of Santa  fe   ,  was one of the  सबसे   हिंसक  prison  दंगे  in the  इतिहास   of  the American correctional system :  33  inmates  died   और  more than 200 inmates were  treated  for  चोटों  .
none  of  the   12   अधिकारियों  taken hostage were killed ,  लकिन  seven were treated  लिये   चोटों  caused by  beatings   और  rapes .
इस  was the third major riot at the NM  राज्य   penitentiary  ,  the  first  occurring  on 19  जुलाई   1922  and the second on 15 June 1953 .
Author  रोजर  Morris suggests the death toll may  have   महरूम   उच्चतर  , as  a  number of bodies were incinerated  or  dismembered during  the   कोर्स  of the mayhem  .
``  रेड  Cardinal '' redirects  यहाँ   .
लिये  the  संयंत्र  Erythrina herbacea ,  देखिए  Coral Bean  .
the  Northern  कार्डिनल   (  Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a North  अमरीकी   बर्ड  in  the  genus Cardinalis  ;  it is  भी  known  colloquially   as  the  redbird  or common cardinal  .
it  can  be   मिला   in  southern Canada , through the  पूर्वी  United States from  maine  to  टेक्सास  and south  through   मैक्सिको   .
It is found  in   वुडलैंड्स  ,  gardens   ,   shrublands  ,  और   swamps   .
The Northern Cardinal is a  mid-sized   songbird  with a body  लंबाई   of  21  सेंटीमीटर  ( 8.3 inches  )  .
It has a  distinctive  crest on the  सिर   और  a mask  on   the  face  जिससे  is black in the  पुरूष  and gray in the female  .
the   पुरूष  is  a  vibrant  रेड  , while  the   मादा  is a dull red-brown  शेड  .
The Northern  कार्डिनल   is  mainly  granivorous   ,  but also feeds on insects and  फल   .
the  male behaves  territorially  , marking out  उसके  territory with  सोंग   .
During  प्रेमालाप  ,  the  male feeds seed to the female beak-to-beak  .
a   क्लच   of  three to four eggs is  रखी   ,   और   दो   to   चार  clutches are produced  प्रत्येक  year .
It was once  prized  as  a   पालतु   ,  but its sale as cage  पक्षियों  is  अभी   बैन   in   the   संयुक्त  States by the  migratory  Bird Treaty  अधिनियम   of  1918 .
Surface runoff  ,   भी   पुकारा  nonpoint source pollution  ,  from  a  farm field  in  Iowa  दौरान  a  बरसात  storm .
topsoil  as  खूब   as  farm  fertilizers   और  other  संभावित  pollutants run off  unprotected  farm fields when heavy  rains   occur  .
Topsoil  is   the   अपर   ,  outermost layer of soil , usually the  शीर्ष   to  .
It has the  उच्चतम  concentration  of  organic matter and  microorganisms  and is  जहाँ   सबसे  of the Earth 's  biological  soil activity  occurs   .
Musical  cryptogram  :  ``  Aschbeg '' set in  schoenberg  's Sechs kleine Klavierstücke ,  op  .  19  , no . 1 ,  m.  5 .
Note that the  टीप  do  नहीं   आइये   in  spelling order  लकिन  are  सब   सटा   (   नहीं  separated by  अन्य  notes  )  .
sechs  kleine Klavierstücke  ,   op  . 19  (  or Six  छोटी  Piano Pieces )  is   a   नियत  of pieces  लिये   सोलो  piano written by the  आस्ट्रिया  composer Arnold  schoenberg   ,  published in 1913 .
मैक्एफ़ी  , Inc.  (  ) is  an   अमरीकी   वैश्विक  computer  सुरक्षा   तन्त्र   कम्पनी  headquartered in Santa Clara  ,  California ,  और  the world 's  largest  dedicated security  प्रौद्योगिकी  company .
as   of   फ़रवरी  28  ,   2011   ,  McAfee  is  a wholly owned subsidiary of  इंटेल  .
McAfee 's  प्रतिस्पर्धी   in  the antivirus industry  हैं   avira  , BitDefender , BullGuard  ,  F-Secure ,  frisk  ,  kaspersky  ,  symantec   ,  and Trend Micro to  नाम  a few  .
संत  Rita of Cascia  (   born  Margherita  lotti  1381  -   may   22  , 1457 ) was an Italian Augustinian nun ,  विधवा   और  saint venerated in the Roman Catholic Church  .
Rita was  शादीशुदा  at an early  आयु   .
The marriage  lasted   लिये  18 years , during which  वो   is   remembered  for her  ईसाई  values  as  a model  बीवी  and  माँ  who made efforts  to   बदलें  her  husband   इससे   उसके   गाली   बर्ताव  .
Upon the  हत्या   of  her husband by  another  feuding family  ,  she sought to  dissuade  her  बेटे   इससे   बदला  .
वो  subsequently joined  an  Augustinian community of  धार्मिक  sisters  ,  where she was known for  practicing  mortification  of  the flesh , along with  the   apparent  efficacy of her  प्रार्थनाएं  .
St. Rita is venerated due to various miracles attributed  to   उसके  intercession ,  और  is often  portrayed  with a  bleeding  wound on her forehead ,  जिससे   the   रोमन   कैथोलिक   गिरिजाघर  claims to have been a  आंशिक   stigmata  .
The Roman Catholic Church  ,   अंतर्गत   the  pontificate of  पोप   leo  XIII  officially   canonized  Rita  on  May 24 ,  1900   ,  while her  feast  day  is  celebrated  प्रत्येक  May  22  .
in  many pious  कैथोलिक  countries ,  रीता  is known  to  be a patroness for abused wives and  शोक  women .
North America is a continent wholly  भीतर  the Northern Hemisphere and almost  wholly   भीतर  the Western Hemisphere  .
it  is also considered  a  northern  उपमहाद्वीप  of  the  Americas .
it  is  bordered  to  the  north  by  the Arctic Ocean  ,  to the  ईस्ट   by  the  अटलांटिक   समंदर  ,  to  the  वेस्ट   और   दक्षिण   by   the  Pacific  समंदर  ,  और   to   the  southeast  by   दक्षिण   अमेरिका   और  the Caribbean  समुद्र   .
North America covers  an  area of  परिचय  24,709,000  वर्गाकार  kilometers  (  9,540,000  वर्गाकार  miles )  ,  about  4.8   %   of  the planet 's  सतह  or about  16.5  % of  इसके  land  क्षेत्रफल  .
As of July 2008 , its population was estimated at  nearly   529  million people across 23 independent states  ,  representing  परिचय  7.5 % of the human  जनसांख्यिकी   .
North America is the third-largest continent in  क्षेत्रफल  , following Asia and Africa  ,  and  the  fourth  in  population  बाद   एशिया  , Africa ,  और   यूरोपीय  .
The  पहला  people to live in North  अमेरिका  were Paleoindians who  began  to arrive during the last  glacial  period by crossing the Bering  जमीन  bridge .
They  differentiated  into a  क्रमांक   of   विविध  cultures and  समुदायों  across the  महाद्वीप  .
The largest and  सबसे   उन्नत  Pre-Columbian civilizations in  उत्तर  America were  the  Aztecs in what  is  now  मैक्सिको  and  the  Mayans in Central  अमेरिका   .
European colonists  began   to   arrive  starting in the 16th and 17th centuries  ,  wiping out  विशाल   संख्याएँ  of  the  native populations and beginning  an  era  of  European  दबदबा   .
jermaine  Lamarr  कोल  (  born  January 28 , 1985 ) ,  बेहतर  known by his stage name J.  कोल   ,  is  an  American hip-hop  रिकॉर्डिंग   कलाकार  and record producer from Fayetteville  ,  North Carolina  .
in  2009 , he became the first artist to sign to  jay-z  's Roc  स्वदेश  label .
उसके  long-awaited debut album ,  हकदार  Cole World : The Sideline  स्टोरी   ,  was released on  सितंबर   27  , 2011 .
The album debuted at number one  on  the  us  Billboard 200 ,  शीर्ष   r  &  b   एल्बम  and  शीर्ष  Rap Albums chart , selling more  than  218,000  in   इसके  first week .
He received a  नामांकन  for  बेहतरीन  New  कलाकार   at   the   54th  Grammy Awards .
the  two  प्रमुख   वर्ण   of  the  श्रेणी  ,  ratchet  ( right )  और   clank  (  बाएँ  ) .
ratchet   &   clank   is  a series  of  platform video games .
the  franchise was  निर्मित   और  developed by  insomniac   खेल   और   प्रकाशित  by  सोनी  Computer Entertainment for  अनेक   अलग  PlayStation consoles ,  ऐसे   as   प्लेस्टेशन   2  and PlayStation 3  साथ   the   exclusion  of Size  matters   और  Secret Agent Clank ,  जिससे  were  विकसित   by  High Impact  खेल  for the PlayStation Portable .
प्रत्येक  game in  the  series has  महरूम  released for every  कंसोल   ,  as  the   ip   is   स्वामित्व  by Sony Computer Entertainment .
An  एनिमेटेड   विशेषता  film  अनुकूलन   उत्पादित  by  rainmaker  Entertainment and Blockade Entertainment  is  scheduled for a theatrical  रिलीज   sometime   in   2015   .
the   खेल   लो   प्लेस  in a  विज्ञान  fiction setting and  follow  the  adventures  of  ratchet   (   an  animalistic human-like character known as  a   lombax  , who is a mechanic  )  and  clank   (  a diminutive  ,  sentient  रोबोट   )  as they travel through the universe ,  छायांकन  it  इससे   दुष्ट   शक्तियां  on  a  regular basis .
The series is noted  लिये  the  समावेश  of  अनेक  exotic and  अद्वितीय  ,  over  the top  हथियार  and devices  ,  a concept that Insomniac Games  भी  expanded into their other  खेल   .
A will or  वसीयत   is  a  विधिक  declaration  by   जिससे   a   व्यक्ति  ,  the   testator  ,  names   एक  or more persons  to  manage his/her  एस्टेट   और   provides   लिये   the  transfer of his  प्रॉपर्टी   at   मौत   .
For the  devolution  of  प्रॉपर्टी  not  disposed  of  by  will , see  उत्तराधिकार  and  intestacy  .
in  the strictest  भाव  , a  ``  will ''  रै  historically  महरूम  limited to real property while  ``   वसीयत   ''   applies   तभी  to  dispositions  of personal property (  यूँ  giving rise  to  the  लोकप्रिय   शीर्षक   of  the document as `` Last  होगा   और  Testament  ''   )  , though  इस  distinction is seldom observed today .
a  will  may  also create a testamentary  विश्वास  that  is  effective  तभी  after the  मौत   of  the testator .
The  19.9  MW Gemasolar  सौर  plant in Spain features  15   घंटों   of   भंडार   और  can supply power  24  hours a day  .
सौर  energy ,  रौशन  light and heat  इससे   the   सूर्य  ,  रै   महरूम   harnessed   by  humans since ancient  टाइम्स   using   a   दायरा  of ever-evolving technologies .
सौर   उर्जा   technologies   शामिल  solar heating  ,  solar photovoltaics , solar  थर्मल   विद्युत   ,   सौर  architecture and  कृत्रिम  photosynthesis , which can make  considerable  contributions to  solving   कुछ  of the most  तात्कालिक   उर्जा  problems the  संसार  now faces .
Solar  technologies   हैं  broadly characterized as either  passive   सौर   or  active solar depending  on   the  way they  कैप्चर  , convert and  वितरित  solar energy .
Active solar techniques  शामिल  the use of photovoltaic  panels   और  solar thermal  collectors  to harness the energy .
Passive  सौर  techniques include  orienting  a building to the Sun ,  selecting  materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties ,  और   डिजाइनिंग   स्पेसेस  that naturally  circulate  air .
In  2011  , the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   उर्जा  Agency  कहा  that ``  the   विकास   of   सस्ती   ,  inexhaustible and clean solar  उर्जा   technologies   होगा   have  huge  longer-term  benefits .
It will  बढ़ाएँ  countries’ energy security through  रिलायंस   on   an  indigenous , inexhaustible  और   ज़्यादातर   import-independent   संसाधन  , enhance  स्थिरता   ,   reduce  pollution , lower  the  costs  of  mitigating climate change  ,   और  keep  चट्टान  fuel prices lower  than   वरना   .
ये  advantages are  वैश्विक   .
Hence  the   अतिरिक्त   लागत   of   the   प्रोत्साहन  for  जल्दी  deployment should  be  considered  सीखना   निवेश  ; they must be wisely spent and  need  to be widely  साझा   ''  .
सर  Thomas More ( ; 7  फ़रवरी  14786  जुलाई   1535  )  ,  known to Roman Catholics as  संत  Thomas More since  1935  ,  थी  an English  वकील   ,   सोशल   पारस   ,   लेखक  , statesman , and noted  पुनर्जागरण  humanist  .
He was  an  important  पार्षद   to  Henry  viii  of England and was Lord Chancellor  इससे  October 1529 to  16  May  1532   .
he  was canonized  by  Pope Pius XI in 1935 as  एक   of   the   जल्दी  martyrs  of  the schism  कि   अलग  the Church of  इंग्लैण्ड  from  रोम  in  the   16th  century  .
In 2000 , Pope John  पॉल  II  घोषित  him patron of  कैथोलिक   कूटनीतिज्ञों   और  politicians .
More was  an  opponent  of   the   प्रोटोस्टेंट  Reformation ,  in  particular  of   मार्टिन  Luther  और  William  टिंडेल  .
However ,  चूंकि   1980   ,  he is also commemorated  by  the  गिरिजाघर  of England as a reformation  वीरगति   .
More coined the  शब्द  `` utopia ``  –   a  name he gave  to   the  ideal and imaginary  द्वीप   स्वदेश   ,  the political system of which he described in  यूटोपिया   ,  published  in  1516  .
He opposed  the  King  's  separation  इससे  the Roman Catholic Church  और  refused to accept him as  परम्  Head  of  the Church of  इंग्लैण्ड  ,  a   शीर्षक   जिससे  had been  दिए  by  पार्लियामेंट   through   the  Act  of  Supremacy of 1534 .
He was  imprisoned  in 1534 for  उसके   refusal   to  take the  शपथ  required by the First  उत्तराधिकार   अधिनियम  ,  क्युकी   the   अधिनियम  disparaged  papal  Authority  और  Henry’s marriage to Catherine of Aragon .
in  1535 , he was tried for treason  ,   convicted   on  perjured  गवाही   ,  and beheaded .
More also helped  to   originate  the  phrase   ``  grasp at  लोभी  '' to mean ``  शिद्दत  trying even useless things ''  ,  in his Dialogue  of   सुकून   विरूद्ध   tribulation  .
intellectuals  and statesmen  आरपार   यूरोपीय  were stunned by  अधिक  's execution  .
erasmus   saluted   उसे  as  एक  `` whose  आत्मा  was  अधिक   pure  than any  हिम  , whose genius was  ऐसे  that  इंग्लैण्ड  never had and  never   again  will have its like '' .
There was a more  विवादास्पद  side to  अधिक  's life  ,  because  he   advocated   the  persecution and  निष्पादन   of  Protestants  जो   refused   to  recant their faith  .
however  , the judgement of  इतिहास  has been  largely   willing  to forgive this  in   लाइट  of  the  times he lived in and  उसके  martyrdom in  the   रोमन   कैथोलिक   कारण   .
Two centuries later  जोनाथन   स्विफ्ट   कहा  More  थी   ``   the  person  of  the  महानतम   पुण्य   इस  kingdom ever produced '' , a  भावना  with which  सैमुएल   जॉनसन  agreed .
इतिहासकार  Hugh Trevor-Roper said in  1977  that  अधिक  was  ``  the first great Englishman whom we feel  कि  we know , the most saintly of  humanists   ,  the  सबसे   इंसान  of  संतो  , the universal  man  of our cool northern  पुनर्जागरण   .  ''
कप्तान   nemo   ,  also known as  प्रिंस  Dakkar  ,   is   a  fictional  अक्षर  invented  by   the  French science fiction author Jules Verne  .
nemo   appears   in  two of  वर्न  's novels , Twenty  हजार   लीग  Under the Sea ( 1870 )  और  The Mysterious Island  (   1874  )  ,   और   makes   a   कैमियो  appearance  in   वर्न   's   खेल   यात्रा  Through  the  Impossible ( 1882 ) .
Nemo  ,  one of the most  प्रसिद्ध   antiheroes  in  fiction   ,  is a  रहस्यमय  figure .
The son  of  an Indian Raja , he  is   a   वैज्ञानिक   प्रतिभाशाली   जो   roams  the depths of the sea in his  पनडुब्बी  ,  the  Nautilus  ,  which was  निर्मित  on a  उजाड़   द्वीप   .
Nemo tries to  प्रोजेक्ट   a  stern ,  नियंत्रित   विश्वास   ,  but he is driven  by   a  thirst for vengeance and a hatred  of  imperialism (  विशेषकर  the British  साम्राज्य  )  .
he   is   भी  wracked by remorse  over  the deaths  of   उसके  crew members  और  even by  the   मौतों   of  enemy  sailors  .
nemo  has  appeared   in   विभिन्न  adaptations  of  Verne  's  novels ,  सहित  films , where he  रै   महरूम   portrayed  by  a  number of  अलग  actors .
he  has furthermore  महरूम  adopted  by   अन्य  authors  लिये  inclusion  in  their  novels  , most  notably   in  Alan Moore 's The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen and Philip José Farmer  's   the  Other Log of  phileas  Fogg .
Listed  नीचे   हैं  the  प्रमुख  League  बेसबॉल   टीमों  with  the  best season  won-lost  records in history  ,   as  determined by  जीतना  percentage (  .700  or better  )  , minimum  120  games  निभाई   .
Acoustic coupler  मॉडेम
A modem  (  modulator-demodulator  )   is  a device that modulates an  एनालॉग  carrier signal  to   encode   डिजिटल  information  ,  and also demodulates such a carrier signal to  डिकोड   the  transmitted information .
the  goal is  to  produce  a   सिग्नल  that  can   be   transmitted   easily  and  decoded   to   reproduce  the original  डिजिटल   आंकड़ा   .
Modems can  be   प्रयुक्त   over  any means of  transmitting  analog signals ,  इससे   लाइट  emitting diodes  to  radio  .
the   सबसे  familiar  उदाहरण   is   a  voice band  मॉडेम   कि   turns  the digital  आंकड़ा   of  a personal  कंप्यूटर  into modulated  विद्युत  signals  in  the  आवाज़  frequency range of a  टेलीफोन  channel .
ये   सिग्नल  can be transmitted  over   टेलीफोन  lines and  demodulated  by another  मॉडेम   at  the  receiver  side  to  recover the digital data .
Modems are  generally  classified by the  राशि  of data they can send  in  a  दिए  unit  of  time  ,   प्रायः  expressed in  बिट्स  per  दूसरी  ( bit/s  ,  or bps  )  , or bytes per  दूसरी  ( B/s  )  .
modems  can alternatively  be   वर्गीकृत   by   उनके   प्रतीक   रेट  , measured in  baud  .
the   baud  unit  denotes   प्रतीकों  per second ,  or   the  number of times per  दूसरी  the modem sends a  नई   सिग्नल  .
For example ,  the   itu   v.21   मानक  used audio  आवृत्ति   शिफ़्ट  keying with two  संभावित   बारंबारता   सम्बन्धित  to  दो   पृथक   प्रतीकों   (  or one  बिट  per  प्रतीक  ) ,  to  carry 300  बिट्स  per  दूसरी   using   300   baud   .
By contrast  ,  the original ITU V.22 standard ,  जिससे   थी  able  to  transmit and  प्राप्त   चार  distinct symbols (  दो   बिट्स  per symbol  )  ,  संभाला  1,200 bit/s  by  sending 600 symbols per second (  600  baud  )   using  phase  शिफ़्ट   keying  .
the  Declaration of Independence  is  a statement  अपनाया  by the Continental  कॉंग्रेस  on  जुलाई  4 ,  1776  , which announced that  the   तेरह   अमरीकी  colonies ,  तब   at  war with Great Britain  ,   regarded   themselves   as   स्वतंत्र   राज्य   ,   और  no longer a part  of   the   अंग्रेजों   साम्राज्य  .
Instead  वे  now formed a new nation—the United States of  अमेरिका  .
John Adams was a leader in  pushing   लिये   स्वतंत्रता  ,  जिससे  was unanimously approved on July 2 .
a  committee  था  already  drafted   the  formal declaration  ,   to  be ready  जब   कॉंग्रेस   voted   on  independence  .
एडम्स  persuaded the committee  to  select Thomas Jefferson to  लिखें  the  असली   ड्राफ्ट  of  the  document ,  जिससे  congress  होता   संपादन  to produce  the  final version  .
The  घोषणा   थी  ultimately a  औपचारिक  explanation  of   क्यों  Congress had  voted  on July  2   to  declare independence from  ग्रेट  Britain , more than a year  बाद  the  outbreak  of  the  American  क्रांतिकारी  War  .
The  नेशनल   जन्मदिवस  ,  the   स्वतंत्रता  Day  is   मनाये  on July  4   ,   हालांकि  Adams wanted July  2   .
बाद   ratifying   the  text  on  July 4 , Congress  जारी  the  घोषणा  of  स्वतंत्रता  in  अनेक  forms .
it  was initially published  as   the  printed Dunlap broadside  कि  was  widely  distributed and read  to   the   पब्लिक   .
the   सबसे  famous version  of  the  घोषणा  ,  a   हस्ताक्षरित   नक़ल  that is  popularly  regarded as the  घोषणा  of Independence  ,  is displayed at the  नेशनल   अभिलेख   in  Washington , D.C .
Although the wording  of  the  घोषणा  was  स्वीकृत   on  July 4  ,   the  date  of   इसके  signing was August 2 .
The original  जुलाई   4  United States Declaration of Independence manuscript  थी  lost while all other copies have been derived from  इस  original  दस्तावेज़   .
the  sources and interpretation  of  the  घोषणा   have  been  the   विषय  of much scholarly inquiry .
The Declaration justified the  स्वतंत्रता  of  the   संयुक्त  States  by   लिस्टिंग   औपनिवेशिक   grievances  against King  जार्ज   iii  ,  और   by   asserting  certain  प्राकृतिक  and legal rights  ,  including  a  right  of   क्रान्ति   .
Having  परोसा   इसके  original  purpose  in announcing independence ,  the  text of the Declaration  थी  initially  उपेक्षित  after  the  American  क्रान्ति   .
Since then , it has  आइये  to  be  considered a major  बयान  on  इंसान   अधिकारों  ,  विशेषकर  its second sentence:
We hold  ये  truths to be self-evident ,  कि   सब  men are created equal , that  वे   हैं  endowed by  उनके  Creator  साथ  certain  unalienable   अधिकारों  , that among  ये  are Life  ,   स्वतंत्रता  and the pursuit  of  Happiness .
इस  has  महरूम  called ``  एक   of  the best-known  वाक्य   in   the   अंग्रेज़ी   भाषा  '' , containing `` the most potent and consequential words  in  American history  .   ''
the  passage  आए   to   represent  a  moral   मानक  to which the  संयुक्त  States  चाहिए  strive  .
This view was notably promoted  by   अब्राहम   lincoln  ,  जो  considered the  घोषणा   to  be the  न्यास   of   उसके  political philosophy ,  और  argued that the  घोषणा  is a statement  of   सिद्धान्त  through which the  संयुक्त  States  संविधान  should  be  interpreted .
it  has inspired work for  the  rights  of  marginalized people throughout the world .
The  अर्थव्यवस्था  of  ग्रीनलैंड  can be characterized  as   छोटी   ,  mixed and  vulnerable  .
the   उपस्थित  economy  consists  of a  बिग   पब्लिक  sector  और  comprehensive  विदेशी   व्यापार   ,   जिससे   रै  resulted in an  अर्थव्यवस्था  with periods  of  strong  विकास   ,  considerable inflation , unemployment problems and extreme  dependence   on   पूंजी   inflow  from Denmark and use  of  outside , mainly Danish ,  skilled  labor .
जीडीपी   प्रति   capita  is  समान   to   the  average  यूरोपीय  economies  लकिन   the   अर्थव्यवस्था  is  critically  dependent upon substantial  support   इससे   the  Danish  सरकारी  , which  आपूर्तियाँ  about half  the   revenues  of the  घर  rule government who  in  turn employ about  8,000   greenlanders   आउट  of a labor  फ़ोर्स  of 40,156 ( Jan. 2012  )  .
बेरोजगारी  nonetheless remains  ऊँची   ,  with the rest of the  अर्थव्यवस्था  dependent  upon   माँग  for exports  of  shrimp and fish .
Hydrogen is a chemical  तत्व  with symbol H  और   परमाणु  number  1  .
साथ  an atomic weight of ( for hydrogen-1  )  , hydrogen  is  the  lightest   तत्व   और  its  monatomic  form  (  H1 ) is the  सबसे  abundant chemical  पदार्थ  , constituting roughly  75   %  of the Universe  's  baryonic mass .
non-  remnant  सितारों  are  मुख्यतः   रचित   of  hydrogen  in  its  प्लाज्मा  state .
At standard  तापमान   और  pressure ,  हाइड्रोजन  is  a  colorless , odorless  ,   tasteless   ,   non-toxic   ,   nonmetallic  ,  अत्यधिक  combustible diatomic  गैस   साथ  the  आणविक  formula  h2   .
Most of the hydrogen  on  Earth  is   in  molecules  ऐसे  as water and  सशुल्क  compounds  क्युकी  hydrogen readily  फ़ॉर्म  covalent  यौगिकों   साथ   सबसे  non-metallic elements .
हाइड्रोजन   plays   a   विशेषकर   महत्वपूर्ण   भूमिका   in   acid-base  chemistry  साथ   अनेक  reactions exchanging protons between  घुलनशील  molecules  .
In ionic  यौगिकों  ,  it  can  लो   a  negative charge  (   an  anion known as  a  hydride and written as H−  )  ,  or  as a  positively  charged  प्रजाति  H+ .
the   latter  cation  is  written  as   हालांकि  composed of a bare proton , but  in   वास्तविकता  , hydrogen cations in ionic  यौगिकों   सदा  occur as more  जटिल   प्रजाति   .
The  सबसे   आम  isotope of hydrogen  is  protium (  नाम  rarely  प्रयुक्त  , symbol 1H  )  with a  सिंगल  proton  और   no  neutrons .
as   the   सरलतम  atom  ज्ञात  , the hydrogen atom has  महरूम   of   सैद्धांतिक   उपयोग  .
For example ,  as  the  तभी  neutral  अणु  with  an   analytic  solution  to   the  Schrödinger  समीकरण  ,  the   पढ़ाई  of  the  energetics and bonding  of  the  हाइड्रोजन   अणु   निभाई  a key role  in   the  development of  क्वांटम  mechanics .
हाइड्रोजन  gas was first  artificially   उत्पादित  in  the  early 16th century ,  via  the mixing of metals with  acids  .
In 1766–81 , Henry Cavendish  थी   the  first to  recognize  that  हाइड्रोजन  gas was a  अलहदा   पदार्थ   ,   और   कि   it  produces water when burned  ,  a property  जिससे  later gave it its name :  in  Greek  ,  hydrogen  अर्थात्  ``  water-former   ''  .
औद्योगिक   उत्पादन  is  मुख्यतः  from  the  steam reforming of  प्राकृतिक  gas  ,   और   कम   प्रायः  from  अधिक  energy-intensive hydrogen production  विधि  like the electrolysis of water .
Most  हाइड्रोजन  is employed  निकट   इसके  production site , with the two largest uses being  चट्टान   ईंधन  processing  (  e.g. , hydrocracking )  और  ammonia production  ,   ज़्यादातर   लिये  the fertilizer market .
Hydrogen  is  a  चिंता   in   metallurgy  as  it  can embrittle many metals , complicating the design of pipelines and storage tanks .
Unstoppable is a  2010   अमरीकी  action  थ्रिलर  film directed by Tony Scott  ,  written by Mark Bomback , and starring Denzel Washington  और   क्रिस   पाइन   .
The film  ,   loosely  based on  the   real-life  CSX 8888 incident , tells the  स्टोरी  of a runaway  भाड़ा   ट्रैन   ,   और  the two men  (  Washington and  पाइन  ) who manage to  रोकें  it  .
it  was Scott 's final feature film  पहले  his  मौत   in  2012 .
The  फिल्मी   थी  released in the  संयुक्त  States  और  Canada on  नवम्बर   12  ,  2010   ,  and  in  the United  किंगडम  on  नवम्बर  24 , 2010  .
it  received mostly favorable reviews from film critics  ;  it  garnered  a ``  certified  Fresh '' rating on Rotten Tomatoes  आधारित  upon aggregated reviews and a  दरजा  of  ``  Generally favorable  समीक्षाएँ  ''  at  Metacritic  .
The film was nominated  लिये   an   अकादमी  Award for Best Sound  संपादन  at  the   83rd  Academy Awards  ,  but  खोया   to  Inception  .
in  photography  ,  bracketing is  the  general  तकनीक   of  taking several  गोलियाँ  of the same  विषय  using different camera settings  .
Bracketing  is   उपयोगी   और  often  अनुशंसित   in   परिस्थितियों  that make it  मुश्किल  to obtain  a  satisfactory image  साथ  a  सिंगल  shot ,  विशेषकर  when  a  small variation  in  exposure parameters has a  comparatively  large effect on  the  resulting  चित्र   .
Autobracketing is  स्वचालित  bracketing by using a setting  on   the  camera  to   लो  several bracketed shots ( in  कंट्रास्ट   to   the  photographer  altering   the   जमावट  by  हाथ   between  each shot  )   .
दिए  the  समय  it  takes  to  accomplish  multiple  गोलियाँ   ,   it   is  typically ,  लकिन   नहीं  always ,  प्रयुक्त   लिये  static subjects .
Insulated  glazing  ( IG ) , more  commonly   ज्ञात  as  दोगुना   glazing  ( or double-pane , and increasingly triple  glazing/pane  ) are double or  ट्रिपल  glass window panes separated by an air or  अन्य   गैस  filled space to reduce heat transfer across  a  part of the  भवन   लिफाफा  .
Insulated  कांच   इकाई  are manufactured  साथ  glass in range of  मोटाई  from  3  mm  to   10   mm  or more in special applications  .
laminated   or  tempered  कांच   may   भी   be  used as part of  the  construction .
सबसे  units  हैं  manufactured with the  वही   मोटाई  of  कांच   प्रयुक्त   on   दोनो  panes  लकिन  special applications  ऐसे   as   ध्वनिक  attenuation or security  may  require wide ranges  of  thicknesses to be incorporated in the  वही  unit .
a  sectioned  आरेख   of  a fixed Insulated  चमकीले  Unit  (  IGU ) ,  indicating  the numbering  सम्मेलन  used  in  this  आलेख  .
Surface #  1  is facing outside ,  सतह   #  2  is   the  inside surface of  the   exterior  pane  ,  Surface # 3  is   the   बाहर  surface of  the   आंतरिक  pane , and Surface #  4  is the  अंदर  surface of interior  फलक  .
The  खिड़की   फ़्रेम  is labelled #  5   ,   a  spacer  is   indicated   as   #   6   ,  seals are  दिखाया   in   रेड  ( # 7 ) , the internal  खुलासा   is  on  the   सही   हाथ  side ( #  8   )  and the  exterior  windowsill  on   the   बाएँ  ( # 9  )
to  reduce shear  प्रभाव   on   the  sealed  ईकाई   (  a major cause  of   असामयिक  failure  )  ,  निर्माताओं   उपयोग  a rule  of  thumb that  permits   a  difference  of   1   mm  between the thickness of the panes of  कांच  used in the unit  और   स्टिल   maintain   the   वारंटी   लिये   the  unit  .
For  उदाहरण   ,  a  ईकाई  may be ordered with a 4  mm   फलक   on   the  exterior and a  3  mm  फलक  on  the  interior .
These  विसंगतियाँ  are allowed for  architectural  and  लागत  reasons .
Other combinations  can  be specified  और  produced but the  निर्माता   may  reserve  the  right  to  limit  the  term  of   the   वारंटी  or  इंकार   to   वारंटी   the  unit  altogether  .
For ease of  वर्णन  the  सतहों   of   a   दोगुना  paned  ईकाई   हैं  named according  to   the  following  सम्मेलन  : Surface # 1  (   facing  outside ) ,  सतह   #  2 (  अंदर  of  बाहर  pane  )   ,   सतह  # 3  (  outside  of  inside pane ) and Surface  #  4  (  inside  सतह   of  inside  फलक   )   .
applying  the  सम्बन्धित  nomenclature for triple  paned   इकाई  results  in   सतहों  # 1  through   #   6  .
The performance of insulating glazing can  be  modified through the use of the  following:
A  ठेठ   संस्थापना  of insulated glazing windows with  upvc  window  फ्रेम्स   .
सेलेनियम  is a chemical element with symbol  se   और   परमाणु  number 34  .
it   is  a  अधातु  with  गुण   कि   हैं  intermediate  between   those   of   इसके  periodic  तालिका  column-adjacent chalcogen elements sulfur and tellurium .
it  rarely  occurs   in   इसके   elemental   राज्य  in nature  ,  or as pure ore compounds  .
Selenium  (  Greek  σελήνη   selene   अर्थ   ``  Moon '' ) was  खोजा   in   1817   by  Jöns Jacob Berzelius  ,   जो  noted  the  similarity of  the  new element  to   the  previously-known tellurium ( named for  the   धरती  )  .
सेलेनियम  is found  impurely  in metal sulfide  ores  ,  जहाँ  it partially replaces the sulfur  .
Commercially  ,  selenium is produced  as   a  byproduct in the  शोधन  of  ये   ores   ,   सबसे   प्रायः   दौरान  copper production .
Minerals that  हैं  pure  selenide  or selenate compounds are  ज्ञात  , but  हैं  rare  .
the   मुख्य  commercial uses for  सेलेनियम   आज   हैं  in glassmaking and in pigments  .
Selenium is a semiconductor and  is  used in photocells .
उपयोग   in  electronics , once important  ,  have  महरूम   ज़्यादातर  supplanted by silicon semiconductor  डिवाइस  .
Selenium continues to be used in  a   few   प्रकार  of  dc  power surge protectors and one  प्रकार  of  fluorescent  quantum dot .
Selenium  लवण   हैं   विषाक्त  in  विशाल  amounts  ,   लकिन   ट्रेस  amounts are  जरुरी  for  सेल्यूलर   फलन  in  अनेक  organisms ,  सहित  all animals .
Selenium  is  a component  of  the antioxidant enzymes  glutathione   peroxidase  and  thioredoxin  reductase ( which indirectly reduce  निश्चित   oxidized  molecules in animals and  कुछ  plants )  .
It  is  also  मिला  in  तीन  deiodinase  एंजाइमों  ,  जिससे   बदलें   एक  thyroid  हार्मोन   to   another  .
Selenium  आवश्यकताएँ  in plants differ  by  species , with some plants requiring relatively  विशाल   amounts  , and  अन्य   जाहिर   requiring  none .
the   संयुक्त   राज्य  presidential election of 2008 was  the   56th  quadrennial  अध्यक्षीय   चुनाव   .
It was  आयोजित  on  मंगलवार   ,   नवम्बर  4  ,  2008 .
Democrat Barack Obama , then the  जूनियर  Senator from Illinois ,  पराजित   रिपब्लिकन  John McCain  ,  the  वरिष्ठ   सीनेटर  from  एरिज़ोना  .
as  the campaign  progressed  , the War  in   इराकी  and outgoing  रिपब्लिकन   अध्यक्ष   जार्ज  W. Bush  था  become  increasingly   unpopular   ,  and  the  major-party  उम्मीदवार   भागा  on a  मंच  of change  और   सुधार  .
Domestic policy  और  the economy eventually  उभरा  as the  प्रमुख  themes  in  the  पिछला   few   महीने  of the election  अभियान  after  the  onset of the worst  मंदी  since the  1930s  .
Obama would  go   on   to  win a decisive victory over McCain in both  the   चुनावी   और   लोकप्रिय   vote  .
ओबामा   प्राप्त   the   सबसे   मत   लिये  a presidential candidate  in  American  इतिहास  , and  जीती  the  लोकप्रिय   और  electoral vote by  the   largest   हाशिया  in 12 years , as  खूब  as  the  largest  प्रतिशत  of  the  popular vote  लिये  a  डेमोक्रेट   in  nearly  a  half-century  .
इस  was  the  first U.S. presidential  चुनाव  in  जिससे  an African American was elected  ,   having  also  महरूम  the  पहला  in which  an  African American won  the  nomination  of  either  प्रमुख  party  .
This election was also notable  लिये  being the first  समय  in  u.S.   इतिहास  that  दोनो   प्रमुख   पार्टी   उम्मीदवार   यहूद  sitting U.S .  सीनेटरों  , only the third  समय  (  बाद   1920  and 1960  )  that any sitting U.S . Senator  थी  elected  अध्यक्ष  ,  और   तभी  the second  समय  that  the  winning President and Vice  अध्यक्ष   (  Obama  और   बिडेन  ) were both sitting U.S  .  Senators  .
This  थी   भी  the first  चुनाव  since  1952  in which neither  of   the  major parties ' nominees  थी   the   लाज़िम  President  or  Vice  अध्यक्ष  .
The Sovereign  प्रिंस   or  Princess of Monaco is  the  reigning  monarch  and head of state  of   the   principality   of   मोनाको  .
सब   princes  or princesses have  officially  taken the  नाम  of the  हाउस  of Grimaldi  ,  but  have  belonged to various  अन्य   घरों  (  goyon  de  matignon   ,  Polignac )  in  male line .
The  reigning  Prince is  अल्बर्ट   ii  .
Visualization  of  fragmentation and  तब   of  defragmentation
in   the   मेंटेनेंस  of file systems  ,   defragmentation  is  a  process that  reduces  the amount of  fragmentation   .
It  करता   इस   by  physically organizing  the   सामग्री  of the mass storage  यंत्र  used  to  store files into the smallest  क्रमांक  of contiguous regions  (  fragments ) .
it  also attempts to create larger regions of free space using  compaction   to  impede the  वापसी  of fragmentation  .
Some  defragmentation  utilities try  to  keep  छोटी  files within a single directory together  ,  as they are  प्रायः   पहुँचा  in sequence .
defragmentation  is advantageous and  प्रासंगिक   to  file systems on electromechanical disk drives .
The  गति   of  the hard  ड्राइव   's  read/write heads  over  different  क्षेत्रों  of  the   डिस्क   जब  accessing  fragmented  files is  धीमा   ,  compared to  accessing  the  संपूर्ण  contents of  a  non-fragmented  संचिका  sequentially without moving the read/write heads to seek other fragments  .
a  service-level agreement (  sla  ) is a part of a service contract where  a   सेवा   is  formally defined .
In practice , the  पद   sla  is sometimes used  to   refer   to   the  contracted  डिलीवरी   समय  (  of  the service or  प्रदर्शन  )  .
as   an   उदाहरण  , internet  सेवा   प्रदाताओं   होगा  commonly include service  स्तर   समझौतों   भीतर  the  शर्तें  of their contracts  साथ  customers to  define  the level  (  s  )  of service being  बेची  in plain language  शर्तें   .
In this case the  sla   होगा  typically  have  a  तकनीकी   परिभाषा  in terms of  औसत   समय  between  असफलताओं  (  mtbf   )  ,  औसत   समय  to repair or mean time to recovery  (  MTTR )  ;   विभिन्न  data rates ; throughput ; jitter  ;  or  समान   measurable  details .
Union Station is a former shopping  मॉल  in Union  नगर  , Georgia  ,   in  southwest  मैट्रो   अटलांटा  adjacent to Interstate 85  .
After new ownership and  renovations  in 2006 ,  the   नाम   थी  changed from  शैनन  Southpark  मॉल   in  2007 to  संघ   स्टेशन   मॉल   .
A  पिछला  renovation was  किया  in  the  late  1990s  .
The mall  रै   महरूम   बंद   चूंकि   नवम्बर  2010 .
This map shows the contiguous  संयुक्त   राज्य   और  , in  insets  at the lower  बाएँ  , the two  राज्य   कि  are not contiguous  .
The  संलग्न  United  राज्य  are the  48   adjoining  U.S.  राज्य  on the continent  of   उत्तर  America that are  दक्षिण  of Canada and  उत्तर   of   मैक्सिको   ,  plus the District of  कोलंबिया  .
the   पद  excludes  the   राज्य  of  अलास्का   और   हवाई  , and all off-shore  u.S.  territories  और   possessions   ,  such as Puerto  रीको   .
Together  ,  the  48  contiguous  राज्य  and D.C.  occupy  a  संयुक्त  area  of   ,  which  is  1.58  %  of  the  total surface  क्षेत्रफल  of  the  Earth .
Of this  ,  is  जमीन  , composing 83.65 % of U.S. land  क्षेत्रफल   .
Officially ,  is  water area  ,   composing   62.66  % of  the  nation 's water  क्षेत्रफल  .
The 2010 census  जनसांख्यिकी   थी   306,675,006  , composing 99.33 % of the nation  's  population ,  और  a density of  103.639  inhabitants/sq mi (  40.015/km2  ) , compared to  87.264/sq   mi   (  33.692/km2  )  for the nation as a  पूरे  .
``   क्यों   ''   is   the   शीर्षक  of  a  song  अंकित   by  American  देश  band  rascal  Flatts  .
It  is   the  third single  इससे   उनके  sixth  स्टुडियो   एल्बम  ,  अजेय  .
It  थी  released  to   रेडियो  stations on September 29 ,  2009   और  debuted at # 44  on   the   u.s  . Billboard US Billboard Hot Country Songs chart for the week  of  October  10  ,  2009  .
it  was written by  रोब  Mathes and  एलन   shamblin  .
Utilization  प्रबन्धन   is   the  evaluation of  the   appropriateness   ,  medical need  और  efficiency  of  health care services  प्रक्रियाओं  and facilities according to  स्थापित  criteria or guidelines and  अंतर्गत  the  प्रावधानों  of  an  applicable  स्वास्थ्य   लाभ   योजना   .
Typically it includes new  क्रियाएँ   or   निर्णय   आधारित   upon  the  विश्लेषण   of  a  मामला  .
utilization  management describes proactive  प्रक्रियाओं  ,  सहित  discharge  नियोजन  , concurrent planning , pre-certification and clinical case appeals  .
it   भी  covers proactive  प्रक्रियाओं  , such as concurrent clinical reviews  और  peer reviews  ,   as   खूब  as appeals introduced by the  प्रदाता   ,   payer   or   रोगी   .
as  pre-certification  और  concurrent  पुनर्विलोकन  of  मामले  grew ,  utilization  management  spun  out  of  utilization  पुनर्विलोकन   .
जबकि  not  synonymous   ,  health  परवाह   पेशेवर  tend to use the  शर्तें  as interchangeable .
The difference is utilization management is  और   intends   to  manage  स्वास्थ्य   परवाह   मामले   efficiently   और  cost  effectively  before  और  during health  परवाह   प्रशासन  .
Utilization  पुनर्विलोकन  is  अधिक  considering whether  स्वास्थ्य  care  थी   appropriately   लागू  after it  थी   administered  .
There  हैं   चार   मौलिक   तकनीकों  in utilization management:
Demand Management
Utilization Review
Case Management
बीमारी  Management
The Outsiders is a coming-of-age novel by  S.   E.  Hinton  ,  first published in  1967  by Viking  दबायें   .
hinton  was  15   जब   वो  started writing  the  novel , but did  सबसे  of the work  जब   वो  was sixteen and a  जूनियर  in  ऊँची  school .
hinton   थी  18  जब  the book  थी  published .
the  book  फ़ॉलो   दो  rival groups ,  the  Greasers and  the   socs  ( pronounced  by   the  author as , short  लिये  Socials  )  , who are divided by their  socioeconomic  status .
The book  takes   प्लेस  in Tulsa ,  ओक्लाहोमा   ,   in  1965  ,  but  it  is never  stated   in   the   किताब  .
a   फिल्मी   अनुकूलन  was  उत्पादित   in   1983  ,  और  a little-known short-lived  टेलीविज़न  series  appeared  in 1990  ,   picking   up   जहाँ  the  फिल्म   बाएँ  off .
The United States House of  प्रतिनिधि  is one  of   the  two houses of the United States Congress  (   a   bicameral  legislature )  .
It is frequently referred  to  as  the  House  .
The other  हाउस  is  the  Senate .
the  composition  और   शक्तियां  of the  हाउस  are established in  आलेख  One  of   the   संयुक्त  States Constitution .
The major power  of  the House  is  to pass  संघीय   विधान  that affects  the  entire country although  इसके  bills must  भी  be  passed  by  the   सीनेट  and  further   सहमत  to by the  u.S.  President before becoming law  (   जबतक  both  the  House  और   सीनेट  re-pass  the  legislation with a two-thirds majority  in   प्रत्येक   कक्ष  ) .
the  House  रै  several exclusive powers  :  the  शक्ति   to  initiate revenue  बिल्स  ,  to  impeach  officials  ,  और   to   elect  the U.S.  अध्यक्ष  in  मामला   वहीँ  is no majority  in  the  चुनावी   कॉलेज  .
Each  u.S.   राज्य  is  represented  in  the  House  in   proportion  to  इसके  population but is  हकदार  to at  तनिक   एक  representative .
The  सबसे  populous  राज्य   ,   कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ,  currently has 53  प्रतिनिधि  .
the   कुल  number of voting representatives  is  fixed by  विधि  at  435   .
प्रत्येक  representative  serves   लिये  a two-year  पद  .
the  Speaker of the United States House of Representatives  ,  who presides over the chamber , is elected by  the  members of the House , and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House  लोकतांत्रिक   caucus   or  the House Republican  सम्मेलन   ,   whichever  party has more voting members .
The House meets in the south wing  of   the  United  राज्य   कैपिटल   .
a   सप्लाई  chain is  दरअसल   a   जटिल  and  डायनेमिक   सप्लाई   और   माँग   संजाल  .
(  cf .  wieland/wallenburg   ,  2011 )
A  सप्लाई  chain is a system  of  organizations ,  लोगों  , activities , information  ,  and resources  शामिल   in   चलती  a product or service  इससे   प्रदायक  to customer  .
Supply chain activities transform  प्राकृतिक  resources  ,  raw materials  ,  and  components   into  a finished  उत्पाद  that  is  delivered to  the  end  ग्राहक  .
in  sophisticated supply chain systems  ,   प्रयुक्त   उत्पाद   may   re-enter  the  सप्लाई  chain at  कोई  point where residual  मान  is  recyclable  .
Supply chains link value  जंजीरों  .
`` Purple  haze   ''   is   a   सोंग  written  और  recorded  by   जिमि  Hendrix  in  1967  ,  released  as  the  दूसरी   सिंगल  by  the   जिमि  Hendrix  अनुभव  in both  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom  और  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   .
It later appeared  on  the  अमरीकी  version of the band 's  1967  album Are You Experienced .
`` Purple Haze  ''  has  become  one  of  the ``  archetypical  psychedelic  ड्रग   गीतों   of  the sixties ''  .
``  जामुनी   haze   's  '' guitar virtuosic techniques would  be   emulated  by many metal guitarists  .
a   बंद   up  picture of a rhinoceros skin .
स्किन  is  the  soft outer covering  of  vertebrates .
Other  एनिमल   छतरियाँ  such as  the  arthropod  बहि  have different developmental  उत्पत्ति   ,   ढांचा   और   रासायनिक   संयोजन  .
The adjective cutaneous means  ``  of  the  skin  ''  ( from Latin cutis , skin ) .
In mammals ,  the  skin is the  largest  organ of the integumentary  प्रणाली   बना  up  of   अनेक  layers of  ectodermal  tissue  ,  and guards the  underlying  muscles , bones ,  ligaments  and internal organs .
स्किन  of a  अलग  nature exists in amphibians , reptiles  ,   और   पक्षियों   .
All mammals  have  some hair on their  स्किन  , even  समुद्री   स्तनधारियों  which appear to be hairless .
the  skin  अंतरफलक   साथ  the environment and is the  पहला   लकीर  of  रक्षा   इससे   बाह्य  factors  .
लिये  example , the skin plays a  कुंजी  role in  protecting   the   देह   विरूद्ध   pathogens  and  excessive   जल  loss .
Its  अन्य   कृत्यों   हैं  insulation , temperature regulation  ,   सनसनी  ,  और   the   उत्पादन   of  vitamin D folates  .
Severely  क्षतिग्रस्त  skin  may  heal by forming scar tissue .
This is sometimes discoloured  और  depigmented  .
The  मोटाई  of  स्किन  also varies from location to location on an organism  .
In humans  लिये   उदाहरण  , the  स्किन   स्तिथ   अंतर्गत  the  आँखें  and  around   the   eyelids  is the  thinnest  skin  in  the body at 0.5 mm thick  ,   और   is   एक   of  the first  क्षेत्रों  to show  लक्षण   of   वृद्धावस्था   ऐसे  as ``  crows   फीट  ''  और  wrinkles .
the  skin on the palms and the soles  of  the  फीट  is 4  mm  thick and the thickest  स्किन   in  the body  .
Fur is  घना   बाल   .
primarily  ,  फर  augments the insulation  the  skin  provides  but can  भी  serve as a secondary  यौन  characteristic  or   as  camouflage  .
On  कुछ  animals , the skin is  बहुत  hard and thick , and can  be  processed  to   बनाएँ  leather .
Reptiles and fish have hard protective scales on their skin  लिये   सुरक्षा  ,  और  birds have hard  feathers  , all made of  मुश्किल   β-  keratins  .
Amphibian  स्किन  is  नहीं  a strong barrier  to  passage of chemicals  और  is often  विषय   to  osmosis and diffusive  शक्तियां   .
For  उदाहरण  ,  a   मेंढक  sitting in an  anesthetic  solution would be sedated  जल्दी   ,   as   the  chemical diffuses  through   इसके  skin  .
Thomas Scott
The Rev . Thomas Scott ( 1747-1821 )  थी  an influential preacher  और   लेखक  who is  प्रधानतया  known  लिये   उसके  best-selling work A  commentary  On The  पूरे  Bible and  the  Force of Truth , and as  एक   of   the   संस्थापकों  of  the   गिरिजाघर  Missionary  समाज   .
Daniel Radcliffe  ,   जो  portrays  हैरी  Potter , has  महरूम  the icon  of  the  फिल्मी  series since  the  release of the first film in 2001  .
कुछ  of the most renowned actors of  the  United Kingdom  और  Ireland have voiced or  portrayed   वर्ण  appearing  in  the  हैरी   कुम्हार  film series  आधारित  on  the   किताब  series by J. K. Rowling .
Daniel Radcliffe , Rupert Grint  और  Emma Watson have played Harry  कुम्हार  , Ron  वीज़्ली   और  Hermione Granger in  सब   the   films  .
When they were cast only  radcliffe  had previously acted in a  फिल्मी  .
Complementing them on  स्क्रीन  are such actors as Helena Bonham  कार्टर  , Jim Broadbent , John  cleese  , Robbie  coltrane   ,  Warwick  डेविस   ,   ralph   fiennes  , Michael Gambon , Brendan  gleeson  ,  रिचर्ड  Griffiths , Richard Harris  ,  John Hurt  ,   जेसन  Isaacs ,  miriam   margolyes   ,  Helen McCrory  ,  Gary  oldman  , Alan  rickman   ,  Fiona  शॉ   ,  Maggie Smith ,  टिमोथी  Spall ,  imelda  Staunton  ,  David Thewlis  ,   एम्मा  Thompson , and Julie Walters ,  among   अन्य  .
Thirteen  अभिनेताओं  have appeared as  the  same character in all  आठ   films  of  the   मताधिकार  .
Some well-known British  अभिनेताओं  who have not appeared  in   the   श्रेणी   ,   हैं  asked  in   jest  why they  have  not  महरूम  cast .
When David  येट्स   थी  directing  the   पांचवां  film  ,  Bill  nighy  , who  था  previously  collaborated   साथ  Yates  on  three of  उसके   टेलीविज़न   प्रोजेक्ट  ,  कहा  that he  joked  with Yates  कि   संभवतः  now  he   होता   n't  be the only actor  in   इंग्लैण्ड  who had n't  महरूम  in  हैरी  Potter  .
`` But nobody called  ''  , Nighy  added   .
लकिन  in 2009  ,  Yates cast  nighy  as Minister  of   जादू   rufus  Scrimgeour in Deathly  hallows  .
Nighy  कहा  ,  ``   i   am  no longer the only English  कर्ता   नहीं   to   be   in   हैरी  Potter  और  I  am  very pleased . ''
Jude Law has quipped , `` Nobody 's  पूछा   me  .
I was  a   बिट  too old for Harry '' .
When a  रिपोर्टर   compared  potions  प्राध्यापक  Horace  slughorn  's obsession with famous names to the series  '  connection  to  ``  प्रत्येक  notable  अंग्रेजों   कर्ता  , ''  जिम   broadbent   ,  who plays Slughorn said ,  ``   खूब  , not every actor gets  आमंत्रित  .
I know some who  हैं   स्टिल  waiting  .   ''
With the  एक्सेप्शन   of  Chris Columbus  ,   प्रत्येक  director has  था  a  कैमियो  appearance in  उसके  respective film : Alfonso  cuarón   appears  as a wizard  पकड़कर  a  मोमबत्ती  during a  झाँकी  at The Three Broomsticks  in   कैदी  of Azkaban  ;  Mike  newell   is   सुना  briefly as the radio  प्रस्तुतकर्ता  in  फ़्रैंक   ब्राइस   's  house in  प्याला  of Fire ;  और  David  येट्स   सुविधाएँ  as  a   जादूगर   भीतर  a  जादुई  moving portrait  in   अनुक्रम   of   the  Phoenix  .
निर्माता  David Heyman also makes  a  cameo  रूप  as a wizard  प्रदर्शित   भीतर  a magical  चलती  portrait in the  तीसरा  film ,  कैदी   of   azkaban   .
J.  K.  Rowling gave  a  speech during the  संसार  premiere  of   the  final film  in   the   series—  Harry Potter  और   the   deathly  Hallows  भाग   2  —on 7 July 2011  in  London , England .
She announced  कि   वो   could  never have  dreamt  of the  प्रतिभाशाली   अभिनेताओं  and  अभिनेत्रियों  who have appeared in  सब  the Harry  कुम्हार   फिल्मों   .
रोलिंग  also  घोषित  that there  हैं  seven Harry Potter film series cast  सदस्यों  , who  वो   refers   to  as  ``  The Big Seven ''  ,   वे  are  डेनियल  Radcliffe ,  रुपर्ट  Grint ,  एम्मा   वाटसन   ,   tom  Felton ,  मैथ्यू   लुईस  , Evanna  लिंच   और  Bonnie Wright .
The list below  is  sorted by film and character , as some characters have  महरूम   portrayed  by  अनेक  actors .
कुंजी
( v  )  indicates the actor  or   अभिनेत्री   lent  only his or  उसके  voice for  उसके  or her  फिल्मी  character
(  y )  indicates  the actor or actress portrayed the role  in  a  फ्लैशबैक  scene or  जब  the character  थी  young  .
( f ) indicates the  कर्ता  or actress did not appear in any new footage for the film  ;  footage  इससे  an earlier film or  films   थी  used .
a  light grey cell (  ऐसे  as the one in the  ``   दान   burbage  '' row  in  the `` Philosopher 's Stone  ''  column  )   indicates  the  अक्षर  was  नहीं   in  the film adaptation  .
A  twelve-step   कार्यक्रम   is  a  नियत  of  guiding   सिद्धान्त  (  स्वीकृत  by members as 'spiritual  सिद्धान्त  , ' based on  the  approved  साहित्य  )  outlining  a  कोर्स  of action  लिये   रिकवरी  from ,  मजबूरी   ,  or other behavioral problems .
originally  proposed  by  Alcoholics  बेनाम   (  AA )  as   a   विधि  of recovery  इससे   alcoholism   ,  the  बारह   कदम   यहूद  first published in the book Alcoholics Anonymous : The Story  of  How More  than  One Hundred  मेन  Have Recovered from Alcoholism in 1939 .
The method was then adapted  और  became the foundation of  अन्य   twelve-step  programs  .
As  summarized  by the American  मनोवैज्ञानिक   संघ  ,  the  process  involves  the  following:
admitting that one can not control  एक  's addiction or compulsion  ;
recognizing  a  higher power that can  दे  strength ;
examining past errors  साथ  the help of  a  sponsor (  अनुभवी  member  )  ;
बनाना   amends   लिये   ये   त्रुटियाँ   ;
learning  to  live a new  जीवन  with a new  कोड  of behavior ;
helping   अन्य  who suffer from  the   वही  addictions or compulsions .
Witness  महाभियोग   ,   in  the law of evidence  of   the  United  राज्य  , is the process  of  calling into  सवाल  the  विश्वसनीयता  of an individual  जो   is   testifying   in   a   विचारण  .
the  Federal  नियम  of Evidence  contain   the  rules governing impeachment  in  federal courts  .
Party  नेताओ  and whips  of   the   संयुक्त  States House  of  Representatives  हैं   निर्वाचित   by  their  संबंधित  parties  in   a  closed-door caucus  by  secret ballot and  हैं  also known  as   मंजिल  leaders  .
the   u.S.  House of Representatives does  नहीं  officially  उपयोग   the   पद  `` Minority Leader '' although  the  media frequently do  .
the   हाउस  instead uses  the  terms  ``  Republican  नेता  '' or ``  लोकतांत्रिक  Leader '' depending on which  पार्टी   holds  a minority of seats  .
the   वर्तमान   हाउस  Majority Leader  is  Republican  eric   cantor  ,  जबकि  the current House  अल्पसंख्यक  Leader  is  Democrat  नैंसी  Pelosi  .
The current House Majority Whip is Republican  केविन  McCarthy , while the current  हाउस  Minority  चाबुक   is   डेमोक्रेट  Steny Hoyer  .
following  the outbreak of  संसार  War I in 1914  ,   the  German  फौज   खोली   the   पश्चिमी   सामने  by first invading Luxembourg  और  Belgium  ,  then  gaining  military  कंट्रोल  of important  औद्योगिक  regions  in   फ़्रांस  .
the  tide of the  अग्रिम  was  dramatically  turned  साथ   the  Battle of the Marne  .
Following the race to the sea , both sides dug in  साथ  a meandering  लकीर  of fortified trenches , stretching  इससे   the  North Sea to  the   स्विस  frontier  साथ  France .
इस  line remained essentially unchanged  लिये  most  of  the war .
Between 1915 and 1917  वहीँ  were several  प्रमुख  offensives  साथ  this front .
the  attacks  employed   विशाल   तोपखाने  bombardments  और  massed infantry  अग्रिम   .
However , a  संयोजन  of entrenchments ,  यंत्र  gun  nests  ,  कंटीले  wire  ,  and artillery repeatedly inflicted severe casualties on the attackers  और  counterattacking defenders  .
as  a  परिणाम   ,  no significant  अग्रिम  were  बना  .
among   the   सबसे  costly of these  offensives  were  the  Battle of Verdun with a combined [ estimated ]  700,000   मुर्दे   ,   the  Battle of  the  Somme  साथ  more than [ an  अनुमानित   ]  million casualties , and the Battle of  passchendaele  with roughly  [  an  अनुमानित   ]  600,000 casualties  .
in   an  effort  to  break  the  deadlock  ,  this front  देखी   the   परिचय   of   नई   सैन्य  technology  ,   सहित  poison gas  ,  aircraft and  टैंक   .
But it  थी  only  बाद   the   अपनाना  of  improved   tactics  that some  उपाधि  of  गतिशीलता  was restored .
The German Spring Offensive of  1918  was made possible  by  the Treaty of  brest-litovsk  that  चिह्नित  the end of the  विरोध   on   the   पूर्वी  Front  .
using  the  recently-introduced  infiltration tactics , the German armies advanced  nearly  to the west  ,  which marked the deepest  अग्रिम  by either  पक्ष  since 1914  और  very nearly  succeeded   in  forcing a breakthrough  .
In spite  of  the  generally  stagnant nature of  इस  front  ,   इस  theater would prove  निर्णायक  .
The  inexorable   अग्रिम  of the Allied armies  दौरान  the  दूसरी  half  of  1918 persuaded  the  German commanders that  शिकस्त   थी  inevitable  ,   और  the government  थी   मजबूर   to  sue for conditions  of  an  armistice   .
the  terms of peace  यहूद   सहमत   upon   साथ  the  हस्ताक्षर  of  the   सन्धि  of  versailles  in 1919 .
The  following  is a  सूची   of  recurring  और  minor characters in the  डिज़्नी   चैनल   असली   श्रेणी  The Suite Life of Zack & Cody .
ये   वर्ण   यहूद  regularly rotated , often disappearing for long  अवधि  during  the  series .
The following  सूची   of  characters has  महरूम   sorted  alphabetically , by first name .
Some of the characters had  no   पिछला  name and  सबसे  were commonly referred to by  उनके  first  नाम   so  this appeared  to  be the  सबसे  logical  विधि   .
in   the  case of  शेफ़  Paolo , who had no known  पहला   नाम  , they  have  been listed by title .
The First  महिला  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  ( FLOTUS )  is  the hostess  of   the  White  हाउस   .
क्युकी   इस  position  is  traditionally filled  by   the   बीवी   of  the  अध्यक्ष   of   the  United States  ,  the  शीर्षक  is  सबसे   प्रायः  applied  to  the wife of a  बैठे   अध्यक्ष  .
the  current  पहला   महिला  is Michelle Obama  .
बाद  her husband Barack Obama  थी  re-elected  on   नवम्बर  6  ,   2012   ,   वो  is  अनुसूचित  to  serve   जबतक   जनवरी   20   ,  2017 .
Septic shock is a  चिकित्सा  condition  as  a result of severe infection  और  sepsis , though  the   microbe  may  be  systemic  or   स्थानीयकृत  to a particular  साईट  .
it   can  cause multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (  formerly  known as  अनेक   अंग  failure  )  and death .
Its most common victims are  children  ,  immunocompromised  individuals  ,   और   the  elderly  ,   as  their  प्रतिरक्षा   प्रणालियों  can not deal with the infection  as   effectively  as those of healthy adults .
Frequently , patients  कष्ट   इससे  septic shock are  cared  for in intensive  परवाह  units  .
The mortality rate  इससे  septic shock  is  approximately  25–50   %   .
केविन  Brereton  (   born   फ़रवरी  20  ,   1972   )   ,  better known by  उसके  stage  नाम   k-os  ( ;  ``   अराजकता   ''  )  ,   is  a Canadian rapper ,  सिंगर   ,   songwriter   और  record producer  .
उसके   दिए  name may also be cited  as  Kheaven , a spelling he  बाद   अपनाया   .
the  alias  ``  k-os  ''   ,   spelled  with  a   निम्नतर   मामला   ``  k '' , was intended  to  be  कम  aggressive than the pseudonyms  of  other  rappers  whose  names  were  सब  upper case , such as  krs-one  .
It is an  एक्रोनिम   लिये  ``  ज्ञान   of   स्वः  , ''  हालांकि   in  a later  इंटरव्यू   he  said  कि  it originally stood  लिये  ``  केविन  's Original Sound  .   ''  k-os  '   म्यूज़िक  incorporates a  चौड़ी  variety  of   म्यूज़िक  genres  ,   सहित  rap , funk , rock  ,   और  reggae .
the   गीत  frequently focus on promoting a `` positive message  ''   जबकि  at times  expressing  criticism  of   मुख्यधारा  hip hop  संस्कृति   's  obsession  साथ   धन  ,  कीर्ति  and glorification of  हिंसा  .
A musician as  खूब  as a  निर्माता  , k-os has  लिखा  and  उत्पादित  nearly  प्रत्येक   भाग   of  all  चार  of his  एल्बम   .
k-os usually performs with  a  live band  ,   कुछ  that is uncommon in  the   हिप   हॉप  genre .
he  sometimes plays  गिटार   और  keyboard  दोनो  during  सजीव  performances and  in   the  studio  .
k-os  received his first  musical  exposure  साथ   the  single  ``   musical   essence  '' , released  in   1993   .
After  the  release  of  his  दूसरी   सिंगल  `` Rise Like  the  Sun  ''  in  1996  , he  withdrew   इससे   the  industry because he  थी   असंतुष्ट   साथ  his musical  स्टाइल   .
He reappeared  briefly  in 1999  और  released his debut album  निकास  in 2002  .
The  एल्बम  received positive  समीक्षाएँ   लकिन   बेची  relatively  few  copies .
he  released his  दूसरी  album  आनन्द  Rebellion  in  2004 , which received platinum status in Canada  .
A  तीसरा   एल्बम   ,  ,  थी   released  in  2006  and also went platinum  .
उसके   चौथी  album , Yes  !
,  was released  in   2009  .
His fifth album BLack on  सुनहरे  was  released   in   2013   .
the  official 2007  संस्करण  of the  ucc  .
Even the  गोपनीय  rough drafts  of  the UCC were saved and published as a  10-volume  set .
The  वर्दी  Commercial  कोड  (  ucc  or the Code  )  ,  पहला   प्रकाशित  in 1952 , is one of  a   क्रमांक  of  वर्दी  acts  कि  have been  promulgated  in  संयोजन   साथ   प्रयत्न   to   harmonize   the   विधि  of sales and other  वाणिज्यिक  transactions in  सब  50  राज्य  within the United States of America  .
multi-pitch   चढ़ाई   is  the ascent of climbing routes with one  or   अधिक  stops at a  belay  station .
प्रत्येक  section of  वास्तविक  climbing  between  stops at  the  belay  स्टेशन   is  called a  पिच  .
The leader ascends the pitch ,  रखकर   गियर  and stopping to  लंगर   themselves  to the  belay  station .
The  कारण   लिये   the   stops   can  be determined by choice  ,   सम्मेलन   or   necessity  .
For  example:
the   रस्सी  is too short to  do  the  संपूर्ण  route in  एक  pitch  (   necessity   )   .
The leader  रै  run  आउट  of protective gear ( necessity )  .
There is  a   सुविधाजनक   protectable  ledge  ,   or   फिक्स्ड  bolts placed  by   पिछला  climbers ,  at  the  स्थान   लिये   a  belay  स्टेशन   (  convention  )  .
the  leader  chooses   to  rest or exchange  लीड  before the next  खण्ड  of the  चढ़ाई  ( choice  )  .
the  general purpose of these stops is to allow the second to  ascend  to the point  of   the  lead climber while collecting  the   सुरक्षात्मक  gear from the route in the course of the  सीसे  climber 's  ascent  .
At  the   belay   स्टेशन   ,  the protective gear  is   एकत्रित  , possibly  exchanged  to  a  new leader ,  और   the  leader of  the   अगला  pitch  ascends  the  रूट  .
A diagram showing an  i  Formation  on   ठोकर  and  a  4-3  गठन   on   रक्षा
in  American football , each team  रै  eleven  खिलाड़ी  on the  फ़ील्ड  at  एक   समय  .
the   विशिष्ट  role  कि  a player takes  on  the field  is   पुकारा  their  स्थिति   .
अंतर्गत  the  आधुनिक   नियम   of  American football  ,   टीमों   हैं   अनुमत  unlimited subsititutions  ,   कि   is  teams may change any number of  खिलाड़ी  after any play .
इस  has resulted in the  विकास  of  तीन   ``  platoons  ''  of  खिलाड़ी  ,  the  offense ( the  टोली   साथ  the ball  ,   जो  is trying to  स्कोर   )   ,  the  रक्षा  ( the team  trying   to  prevent  the   अन्य  team from  स्कोरिंग  , and to  लो   the   बॉल   इससे   उन्हें   )  ,  और  the special  टीमों  ( who  खेल   in  kicking situations ) .
भीतर  those platoons  ,   विभिन्न   विशिष्ट   स्थितियाँ   मौजूद  depending  on   कया  the player  's  main job  is  .
The  नियंत्रित  Substances Act  (  CSA ) was enacted into law by  the  Congress of the  संयुक्त  States as Title II  of  the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act  of   1970  .
the  CSA is  the  federal  u.S.  drug policy  अंतर्गत  which  the   manufacture  , importation  ,   कब्ज़ा   ,  use and  वितरण  of certain substances is regulated .
The  अधिनियम  also served as  the   नेशनल  implementing legislation  लिये  the Single Convention  on  Narcotic Drugs .
the  legislation created five Schedules  (  classifications ) ,  साथ  varying  योग्यता   लिये  a substance to  be  included in each  .
दो   संघीय  agencies ,  the  Drug Enforcement  प्रशासन   और   the  Food and  ड्रग   प्रशासन   ,   determine   जिससे  substances are added  to  or  removed  from the various schedules , though the statute  passed   by   कॉंग्रेस  created  the   आरंभिक  listing , and  कॉंग्रेस   रै  sometimes scheduled  अन्य  substances through  विधान  such  as  the Hillory J. Farias  और  Samantha Reid Date-Rape  रोकथाम  Act  of   2000  ,  जिससे   लगाई   गामा  hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I  .  Classification  निर्णय  are required to be  बना  on criteria including potential  लिये   गाली   (  an undefined  पद   )  ,  फिलहाल   स्वीकृत  medical  उपयोग   in  treatment in the United States  ,   और   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   treaties  .
the  Wayne Route  23   पारगमन   बीच   is  a New  जर्सी  Transit  park-and-ride  station  in  Wayne  ,   नई  Jersey  साथ   the   montclair-boonton   लकीर   कि   provides   बस  service to  नई  York City and various other points in the area  as  well as Montclair-Boonton Line train service to New  यॉर्क  , Hoboken ,  और   इंटरमीडिएट   अंक   साथ  the  लकीर   between   hackettstown   और  Montclair  राज्य  University  .
It is located  बंद   of  the southbound  गलियों  of New  जर्सी   रूट   23  on West  बेल्ट  Road , near the interchange  जहाँ   रूट  23 , Interstate 80 ,  और  U.S. Route 46 meet ,  आरपार   इससे   the   willowbrook  Mall  .
The  स्टेशन  opened in  जनवरी   2008  and has 1,000 parking spaces .
New Jersey Transit  intends  for this combined rail  और  bus  स्टेशन  to  become  an `` interceptor  स्टेशन   ,   ''  that  होगा   सहायता  relieve the habitual  जमघट   at   the  West Belt Road  इंटरचेंज  , where the three  प्रमुख   राजमार्गों  meet .
In  जोड  ,  the  construction of the station  थी  meant to  भी  ease  the   जमघट  at  कया   थी  then Route 23  पार्क   &  Ride , a bus  डिपो  on  रूट  23 North  कि  has since been renamed Mother 's Park  &  Ride  ,  and  the  Willowbrook Mall Park & Ride ;  the  now-Mother  's  site had limited  पार्किंग  while NJT was having trouble with  overfull   पार्किंग   क्षेत्रों  at  willowbrook   .
The  वेन   township  bus garage  is  located  on   the   विपरीत  side  of   रूट  23 .
There has been a proposal to  निर्माण   a  parking  डेक   साथ  another  हजार  spots  और   develop  the  जमीन  at the station .
In addition  to  Montclair-Boonton trains  ,  the Transit Center is served by the  following  New Jersey Transit  बस  lines:
75  to  न्यूर्क  Penn Station and Butler
194  to  Port Authority Bus  टर्मिनल  and Butler/Newfoundland
198 to  बंदरगाहों   प्राधिकार  Bus Terminal  और   विलियम  Paterson  विश्वविद्यालयों
324   to   बंदरगाहों   प्राधिकार   और   वेन  Route  23
748   to   willowbrook  Mall  और  Paterson
The at sign @  is  also  commonly   पुकारा  the  at  symbol , ampersat , apetail or  वाणिज्यिक  at  in  English—and less commonly a wide  दायरा   of  other terms .
The fact that there is no  सिंगल   शब्द  in English  लिये  the symbol  रै   prompted   कुछ  writers to use the French  arobase  or Spanish and  पुर्तगाली  arroba—or to coin  नई   शब्द  such  as  asperand , ampersat—but none  of  these has  हासिल  wide currency .
Originally  an   हिसाब   और   वाणिज्यिक  invoice  संक्षिप्त   अर्थ   ``   at   the  rate  of  '' ( e.g . 7  विजेट   @   $   2  =  $   14  ) ,  it   थी   नहीं   शामिल   on  the  कुंजीपटल   of  the earliest  commercially  successful typewriters , but  थी  on  at  least one  1889  model  और  the  बहुत  successful  underwood   मॉडल   इससे  the `` Underwood  no   .  5 '' in 1900  onward   .
it   is  now universally included on computer  keyboards  .
In recent years ,  इसके   अर्थ   रै  grown to include the sense  of  being `` located at , '' `` and ,  ''  or ``  निर्देशित   at  '' ,  विशेषकर  in email  पता   और  social media ,  विशेषकर   ट्विटर   .
the   चिह्नित   is   एनकोडेड   at  .
The Catcher  in   the   rye  is a 1951 novel  by  J.  D.  Salinger .
Originally  प्रकाशित  for adults  ,  it  रै   चूंकि  become popular with  adolescent   पाठक   लिये   इसके  themes  of  teenage  angst  and alienation .
It  रै  been translated into almost all of  the   संसार  's  प्रमुख  languages .
around  250,000  नक़ल  are  बेची   प्रत्येक  year with total  बिक्री  of  अधिक   than   65  million  किताबे  .
The  अनोखा  's protagonist and antihero , Holden  caulfield  , has become an icon  लिये  teenage rebellion .
The novel  थी  included  on   टाइम्स   2005   सूची   of  the  100   बेहतरीन  English-language novels written since  1923  ,  और  it was named by Modern Library and its  पाठक  as one of the  100  best  english-language  novels of  the  20th  सदी  .
It  रै   महरूम  frequently  challenged  in the United  राज्य   और  other countries for  इसके  liberal use of profanity  और  portrayal  of  sexuality .
It also deals  साथ   जटिल   मुद्दे  of identity , belonging , connection  ,   और  alienation  .
skeletal  muscles  होमो  sapiens
इस  is a  तालिका  of muscles  of   the  human anatomy  .
वहीँ  are approximately  642  skeletal muscles within  the  typical  इंसान   ,   और   लगभग  every muscle  constitutes  one  भाग  of a pair  of   एकसमान  bilateral muscles , found  on   दोनो  sides  ,  resulting in  लगभग  320 pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless ,  the   सटीक  number is  मुश्किल  to define because  अलग  sources group  मांसपेशियां  differently  ,  e.g .  regarding  what  is   पारिभाषित   as  different  भाग   of   a  single  मांसपेशी  or  as  several muscles .
Examples  दायरा  from  640  to 850 .
The muscles of  the  human  देह  can be categorized  into  a number  of  groups  जिससे   शामिल  muscles relating to  the  head and neck , muscles  of  the  धड़   or   ट्रंक   ,  muscles  of   the  upper limbs  ,   और  muscles  of   the   निम्नतर  limbs  .
The action  refers  to the action of  प्रत्येक  muscle  इससे   the  standard anatomical position .
in  other positions ,  अन्य  actions may be performed  .
ख़राब   लड़कियों  Club  (   bgc   )  is  an  American reality television  श्रेणी   निर्मित  by Jonathan Murray  लिये   the  Oxygen  टेलीविज़न  station  .
the  show centers on  सात  feisty  और  mischievous  महिलाओं   साथ   अलग   पृष्ठभूमि  and personalities ,  जो  have a  क्रमांक  of psychological and  behavioral   समस्याएं  .
They are introduced  to   the  show off their  घातक  behavior and  accomplish  specific goals .
The  डाल  , deemed `` bad girls '' ,  आनंद   a  luxurious lifestyle  in   a  fine mansion for  तीन  months , during which they must obey  निर्दिष्ट   नियम  .
उनके   जीवनदान   अंदर  –  और  outside – of the  हाउस   हैं  chronicled  और  recorded  by  the production  टोली  .
the  Bad  लड़कियों   क्लबों   is  broadcast in five  देशों  ( United States ,  नीदरलैंड्स  ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   ,  Hungary  ,   और  Sweden )  .
It  रै  received  ऋणात्मक   समीक्षाएँ   इससे   आलोचकों  ,  जो  believe the  दिखाएँ  promotes  हिंसा  by  adolescent   दर्शक   .
Furthermore , several cast  सदस्यों  made controversial  remarks  which outraged  अनेक   दर्शक   .
the  format of  the  show has changed  इससे  early seasons .
if   a  ``  ख़राब  girl ''  ब्रेक  a rule , she is evicted  इससे  the show and , if  it  is early in  the   ऋतु  , replaced  by  a  नई   ``  bad  लड़की  ''  .
There have been nine complete  सीज़न  of  the  Bad Girls Club , with  the   दसवाँ   ऋतु  currently airing .
the   चौथी  season  था  the highest ratings  in  the  दिखाएँ  's history , becoming  इसके  ``  भेदन   ऋतु  '' .
वहीँ   have  been three spin-offs of The Bad Girls Club  .
एक  of them ,  प्रेम  Games  :  Bad  लड़कियों  Need  प्रेम  Too , where  पास्ट  cast members seek true  प्रेम  , has  gained  high  दरजा   .
ऑक्सीजन  has  भी   released  a  मोबाईल   खेल   ,   कॉमिक   स्ट्रिप   और   merchandise   to   प्रचार  the  दिखाएँ  .
Of the 92  प्रतियोगी  , Kerry Harvick ( of season one )  थी  a  कामयाब  country singer before the  दिखाएँ   .
Tanisha Thomas (  of  season two )  बाद  hosted  ऑक्सीजन   's  OxygenLive !
और   the  subsequent seasons  of   प्रेम   खेल  :  ख़राब  Girls Need Love Too .
थामस   ,   जो  has been dubbed  the  `` godmother '' to all  प्रतियोगी   ,  has her own television documentary  हकदार  Tanisha Gets Married .
As of Season  8   वो  's  महरूम  the host of  the  reunion specials  .
the  Iowa Senate is  the   अपर   हाउस  of  the   आयोवा   सामान्य  Assembly .
There are 50  सीटे   in  the Iowa Senate  ,  representing 50  single-member  districts across  the   राज्य  with populations of approximately 60,927 per  constituency   ,   .
Each  सीनेट   ज़िला  is  रचित   of  two House  जिले   .
The  सीनेट  meets  at   the   आयोवा   राज्य  Capitol  in  Des Moines .
Unlike the  निम्नतर  house , the Iowa  हाउस   of  Representatives  ,  Senators serve  four-year  terms  ,  with  हाफ  of the Senate  लड़खड़ाते  for  re-election   प्रत्येक   दो  years .
वहीँ  are  no   पद   हद  for the Senate  .
Mechanical  मरम्मत
Maintenance  ,  repair  ,   और   परिचालन  (  mro   )  or maintenance , repair  ,  and overhaul involves fixing any sort of mechanical  ,  plumbing  or   विद्युत   यंत्र  should  it  become out of order or broken ( known as  मरम्मत  ,  unscheduled   or   casualty   मेंटेनेंस  )  .
it   भी  includes performing  दिनचर्या  actions  जिससे   रखना   the   यंत्र  in  working  order  (  known as scheduled  मेंटेनेंस   )   or   prevent   ट्रबल  from  arising   (   निवारक   मेंटेनेंस   )  .
mro  may be defined as  ,  ``  सब  actions  जिससे  have the objective  of   retaining   or   restoring  an  मद   in   or   to  a state in which it  can  perform its  जरूरी   फलन   .
the  actions include  the  combination of all technical  और  corresponding administrative , managerial  ,   और  supervision actions . ''
mro   परिचालन  can be categorised  by   whether   the   उत्पाद  remains the  प्रॉपर्टी  of the customer , i.e .  a   सेवा  is being offered ,  or   whether  the product is  खरीदा  by  the  reprocessing  संगठन   और  sold to any  ग्राहक   wishing  to  मेक  the purchase (  guadette   ,  2002 ) .
in  the  पूर्व   मामला  it may  be  a  backshop  operation  भीतर   a  larger organisation or smaller operation  .
the   पूर्व  of these represents a  बंद  loop supply chain and usually  रै  the  पैमाना  of maintenance  ,   मरम्मत  or of the  उत्पाद  .
the  latter of  the   categorisations   is  an open loop  सप्लाई   कड़ी   और   is   typified   by   refurbishment   और  remanufacture  .
The main characteristic  of  the closed loop system is that  the   माँग   लिये   a  product is matched with  the   सप्लाई   of  a  प्रयुक्त  product .
Neglecting  एसेट  write-offs and  असाधारण   क्रियाएँ   the  total  जनसांख्यिकी  of the  उत्पाद   between  the customer  और  the  सेवा   प्रदाता  remains constant  .
प्रिंस   विलियम  ,  ड्यूक  of  कैम्ब्रिज   (  William  आर्थर   फिलिप  Louis ;  born  21  जून  1982 ) , is  the  elder  बेटे   of  Charles ,  प्रिंस   of   वेल्स   ,  and  डायना   ,   राजकुमारी  of Wales , and third-eldest grandchild of  महारानी  Elizabeth  ii   और   प्रिंस  Philip , Duke of Edinburgh .
He is  दूसरी  in  the   लकीर  of  उत्तराधिकार   ,   पीछे   उसके   पिता  ,  to  the thrones of  सोलह  independent sovereign  राज्य  known  as  the Commonwealth realms  :  the  संयुक्त   किंगडम  ,  कनाडा   ,  Australia ,  नई  Zealand ,  जमैका   ,  Barbados , The Bahamas  ,  Grenada , Papua New Guinea  ,  the  सुलेमान  Islands  ,   तुवालू  ,  संत  Lucia , Saint Vincent and  the  Grenadines , Belize ,  अण्टीगुआ  and  बारबूडा  ,  और   संत   किट्स  and  नेविस   .
Prince William was  शिक्षित   at  four schools in the  संयुक्त  Kingdom and  प्राप्त  a degree from  the   विश्वविद्यालयों   of   st  Andrews .
He spent parts  of  a  गैप   साल  in Chile , Belize , Tanzania , and Kenya where he has  जिया   और  holidayed  अनेक   टाइम्स  .
प्रिंस  William has also taken Kiswahili studies at  विश्वविद्यालयों   in  Kenya  और   तंजानिया  .
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in  the   ब्लूज़  and Royals Regiment of the  household  Cavalry —serving with his brother Prince  हैरी   —and  ,  दो   सालो  later , earned his  विंग्स  by completing  पायलट  training  at  Royal Air Force College  cranwell  .
In 2009  ,   he  transferred to  the   royal   एयर   फ़ोर्स  , was promoted  to  Flight Lieutenant  और  underwent helicopter  उड़ती   प्रशिक्षण   in   अनुक्रम   to   become   a  full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue  फ़ोर्स  .
In  2010  ,  he  completed his  सामान्य   और  special-to-type  हेलीकाप्टर  training and  गई   on  to RAF  घाटी  on  no   .  22  स्क्वाड्रन  performing co-pilot  कर्तव्य   on   फलक   a   समुद्र  King  ढूंढें  and rescue helicopter .
Prince William  शादीशुदा  his longtime  गर्लफ्रेंड   ,  Catherine Middleton , on  29  April 2011 at  वेस्टमिंस्टर  Abbey .
Hours  prior   to   उसके   विवाह   ,   प्रिंस  William  थी   निर्मित  Duke of Cambridge , Earl  of  Strathearn ,  और  Baron  carrickfergus   .
DeAndre  cortez  Way ( born July  28  , 1990  )  , better  ज्ञात  by  उसके  stage name Soulja Boy Tell 'Em , or simply  soulja  Boy  ,  is an American rapper  ,   रिकार्ड   निर्माता  ,  कर्ता  , and entrepreneur .
In September 2007 ,  उसके  single `` Crank That ( Soulja Boy )  ``  reached  क्रमांक   एक   on  the Billboard  hot   100  .
The single was initially self-published on the internet  ,   और   it  later  became  a number-one hit  in  the  संयुक्त  States for  सात  non-consecutive weeks  starting  in September 2007  .
On August  17   रास्ता  was  सूचीबद्ध   at   #  18  on   the   फोर्ब्स   सूची   of   hip-hop  Cash Kings of 2010  कमाई   $   7  million for  कि   साल   .
रास्ता   रै  currently released  तीन   स्टुडियो   एल्बम  and  एक  independent album :  उसके  debut studio album Souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 )  थी   certified  platinum  by  the  riaa   .
However ,  उसके  next two  एल्बम   ,  iSouljaBoyTellem (  2008   )  and The DeAndre Way (  2010   )   किया  not  मैच  the commercial success of his  डेब्यू   ,  the latter only  selling   100,000   नक़ल  , despite the success of several singles across  दोनो   एल्बम  ,  ऐसे  as `` Kiss  me   thru   the   फोन  `` and  ``  Turn My  swag   on  `` ( iSouljaBoyTellem )  और  ``  pretty  Boy Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way ) .
इस  was mainly due  to   negotiation   समस्याएं   साथ  Interscope  रिकॉर्ड   जिससे  meant a limited amount  of  records were made available  to   the  public  .
As of 2011 , Way has  पुष्टि  he  is   working  on  उसके   चौथी   स्टुडियो  album  ,  entitled  यूएसए  DRE , which will  be  released in  2013  .
The electron transport chain  in  the mitochondrion  is  the  साईट  of oxidative phosphorylation  in   eukaryotes   .
The  nadh   और   succinate  generated in  the  citric acid cycle  हैं   oxidized  , providing energy  to   शक्ति   एटीपी   synthase   .
photosynthetic   इलेक्ट्रॉन   हस्तांतरण  chain of the thylakoid  झिल्ली  .
An  इलेक्ट्रॉन   हस्तांतरण  chain  (   इत्यादि  ) couples electron  ट्रांसफ़र   between   an   इलेक्ट्रॉन   दाता  ( such as  nadh  )  और  an  इलेक्ट्रॉन   acceptor  ( such as  o2  ) with the  ट्रांसफ़र   of  H+  ions  (  protons  )  आरपार   a  membrane  .
The resulting  electrochemical  proton gradient is  प्रयुक्त   to  generate chemical energy  in   the  form of  एडीनोसिन   ट्राइफॉस्फेट  (  एटीपी  ) .
इलेक्ट्रॉन  transport  जंजीरों  are the cellular  mechanisms  used for extracting energy from  धूप   in  photosynthesis and  भी  from  रेडॉक्स   प्रतिक्रियाएँ  ,  ऐसे  as  the  oxidation  of  sugars (  श्वसन   )  .
in  chloroplasts  ,  light  ड्राइव  the conversion of water to oxygen  और   nadP+  to NADPH with  ट्रांसफ़र  of  H+   ions  across chloroplast membranes .
In  mitochondria   ,  it is the  परिवर्तन   of   ऑक्सीजन   to  water ,  nadh  to  naD+  and  succinate   to   fumarate  that are  जरूरी  to generate the  प्रोटॉन   अनुपात   .
Electron  हस्तांतरण  chains are  प्रमुख   साइट  of premature electron leakage  to  oxygen , generating  superoxide  and  potentially  resulting  in  increased  oxidative  stress .
tramadol  hydrochloride  (  trademarked  as  Conzip  ,   ryzolt  , Ultracet ,  ultram  in the USA ,  ralivia  , Zytram  xl  Durella { CR-100/200 mg } in Canada or  adolonta   in  Spain ) is a centrally acting  सिंथेटिक  analgesic used to treat  मॉडरेट  to moderately  कठोर   पीड़ा   .
the  drug  रै  a wide  दायरा   of  applications , including treatment of  आमवातीय   गठिया   ,  restless legs syndrome ,  मोटर  neurone disease and  लुपस  .
it   थी  launched and marketed as Tramal by the German pharmaceutical company  grünenthal  GmbH in 1977 .
tramadol  is a weak μ-opioid receptor agonist that also induces serotonin  रिलीज  and  inhibits   the   reuptake   of   norepinephrine  .
Tramadol  is  metabolized  to   o-desmethyltramadol   ,   a  significantly more potent  μ-opioid   agonist   .
tramadol   और   इसके  major metabolite  (  s ) are  विशिष्ट   इससे  other  अधिक  potent  opioid  agonists by relative selectivity for μ-opioid  receptors  .
बर्नार्ड   लॉरेंस   ``   बर्नी  '' Madoff ( ;  born  April 29 , 1938 ) is  an   अमरीकी   पूर्व  stockbroker ,  निवेश   सलाहकार  , financier , and  श्वेत   कॉलर  criminal  .
He  is  the former non-executive Chairman  of  the  नैस्डैक  stock  मार्केट  , and the  admitted   ऑपरेटर  of  a   पेन्शन  scheme that is  माना  to  be  the  largest  financial fraud in U.S.  इतिहास  .
madoff   संस्थापित  the Wall Street firm Bernard L.  madoff  Investment Securities  llc  in  1960  , and was its chairman  जबतक  his arrest on December 11 , 2008  .
The firm was  एक  of  the  top  मार्केट   मेकर   व्यवसायों  on Wall Street , which bypassed  ``  specialist ''  firms  by directly  निष्पादित  orders over the counter from  खुदरा   brokers   .
He employed at  the   कड़  his brother Peter  as   वरिष्ठ  Managing Director  और  Chief Compliance  अधिकारी  ;  पीटर  has since been  sentenced   to   10   सालो  in prison .
Peter  's  daughter Shana Madoff as the  कड़   's  rules and compliance officer  और   attorney  ,  और   उसके   बेटे  Andrew and Mark ( Mark  वचनबद्ध   आत्महत्या   by  hanging  exactly   दो   सालो  after  उसके   पिता  's  गिरफ़्तार  ) .
On  दिसम्बर  10  ,  2008 , Madoff 's  बेटे   बताई   अधिकारियों   कि  their father  था  confessed  to  them that the  एसेट  management unit of  उसके   कड़   थी   a  massive Ponzi  योजना  , and  कोटेड  him as  describing   it   as  `` one  बिग   झूठ   .  ''
the   following  day  ,  FBI agents arrested Madoff and charged  उसे   साथ  one count  of   प्रतिभूति   धोखाधड़ी  .
the  U.S. Securities  और   एक्सचेंज  Commission ( SEC )  था  previously conducted  investigations  into Madoff  's  business  practices  , but  किया   नहीं   ख़ोज   the  massive  धोखाधड़ी   .
in   कूच   2009  ,  madoff   pleaded  guilty to 11  संघीय  felonies and admitted to  turning  his  माल   प्रबन्धन  business into  a   विशाल  Ponzi scheme  कि  defrauded  हज़ारों  of investors  of  billions of dollars .
Madoff said  he   began  the  पेन्शन  scheme  in  the early 1990s  .
however   ,  federal  जांचकर्ताओं  believe the fraud  began   as  early as  the  1970s  ,  and those charged  साथ  recovering the missing money believe the  निवेश   आपरेशन  may never  have  been legitimate  .
the  amount  लापता   इससे  client  खाते   ,  including  fabricated   gains  , was  लगभग  $ 65  अरब   .
The court-appointed trustee estimated actual  नुकसान  to  निवेशकों   of   $  18 billion .
On June 29 , 2009  ,  he  थी   sentenced   to  150 years  in  prison ,  the  maximum allowed .
Administrative Professionals Day ( also  ज्ञात  as  secretaries  Day or  एडमिन   दिन  )  is   an  unofficial secular  अवकाश  observed in  अनेक   देशों  to  recognize  the work  of  secretaries , administrative assistants , receptionists , and  अन्य  administrative  support  professionals  .
In  उत्तर   अमेरिका   ,   it   is  celebrated  on  the Wednesday of  the  last full week  of   अप्रैल  (  अप्रैल  24 in  2013  ) .
In  फ़्रांस   it  is  मनाये   on  the third  गुरुवार   in  April ( April  18  in  2013  ) .
In  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   it  is celebrated  on  the first  शुक्रवार  in May
A quasi-judicial  देह  is  an  entity such  as  an  arbitrator   or   ट्रिब्यूनल   फलक  , generally  of  a public  प्रशासनिक  agency  ,   जिससे   रै   शक्तियां   और  procedures resembling  those  of a  अदालत   of   विधि  or  न्यायधीश   ,  and  जिससे   is  obligated to objectively determine  तथ्य  and  चित्रण  conclusions from  उन्हें  so  as  to provide the basis of  an   आधिकारिक  action .
Such  क्रियाएँ   हैं  able  to   उपाय  a  हालात  or impose legal  दंड  , and may affect the  विधिक  rights ,  कर्तव्य   or   privileges  of specific  पार्टियों   .
Monument of  tycho  Brahe and Johannes Kepler  in   प्राग
Tycho Brahe  (  14 December 154624  अक्तूबर  1601  )   ,  born Tyge Ottesen Brahe , was a  डैनिश  nobleman  ज्ञात   लिये  his accurate and comprehensive astronomical and planetary observations .
He was  born   in  Scania , then part of Denmark , now  भाग  of  modern-day   स्वीडन  .
tycho  was well known  in   उसके  lifetime  as  an astronomer  और  alchemist  .
In his De nova stella  (  On the new  स्टार  ) of  1573   ,  he  refuted  the Aristotelian belief in  an  unchanging celestial realm .
His  precise  measurements indicated that `` new  सितारों  , '' (  stellae  novae ,  अभी  known  as  supernovae ) in particular  कि  of  1572   ,  lacked  the  parallax expected  in   sub-lunar   phenomena   ,  and were therefore not `` atmospheric '' tailless  धूमकेतुओं  as  previously   believed   ,  but  यहूद  above the atmosphere  और  moon .
using   समान   माप  he  दिखाया  that comets were also not atmospheric phenomena ,  as   previously  thought  ,   और  must pass  through   the  supposedly ``  अपरिवर्तनीय   ''  celestial spheres .
As an astronomer  ,  Tycho  worked  to combine what he  देखी  as  the  geometrical benefits  of  the Copernican  प्रणाली  with the  philosophical  benefits  of  the Ptolemaic system into  उसके  own model  of  the  ब्रह्मांड   ,   the   tychonic  system .
Furthermore , he was  the   पिछला  of the major  नग्न  eye astronomers  ,  working without telescopes for his observations .
tycho  Brahe  थी  granted an  एस्टेट  on the island of  hven  and the funding  to   निर्माण   the  Uraniborg , an early research institute  ,  where he built large  खगोलीय   यंत्र   और  took many  careful   माप  , and later Stjerneborg , underground , when  he   खोजा  that  उसके  instruments in the former  यहूद   नहीं  sufficiently steady  .
On the island (  on   जिससे   he   demonstrated   निरंकुश   अक्षर   और   बर्ताव   toward   the   निवासियों   )  he founded manufactories such as  paper-making   to  provide  सामग्री   लिये  printing  उसके   परिणाम  .
बाद  disagreements with the  नई  Danish king  ईसाई  IV  in  1597  ,  he was invited  by  the  bohemian   किंग   और  Holy Roman emperor Rudolph  ii   to  Prague , where  he  became  the   आधिकारिक   इम्पीरियल  astronomer  .
He  निर्मित  the new  वेधशाला  at Benátky  nad  Jizerou  .
Here  ,  from 1600  जबतक  his death in  1601  ,  he  was  assisted   by  Johannes  कॅप्लर  who  बाद   प्रयुक्त  Tycho 's  खगोलीय  data to develop  कॅप्लर  's laws of  ग्रहीय   गति   .
Guro  ज़िला  (  guro-gu   )  is  a  district of  सियोल   ,   दक्षिण  Korea  ,  which was separated from  yeongdeungpo  District  on  April 1 ,  1980   .
Located  in  the  southwestern  part of the city  ,  where  besides   yangcheon  District and  geumcheon  District  guro   ज़िला  has an  महत्वपूर्ण   स्थिति   as  a transport  कड़ी   जिससे  contains railroads , land  रूट  from  the  rest  of  Seoul  to  the south of  the  country .
The Gyeongbu and Gyeongin  रेल  lines  कनेक्ट   सियोल   to   बुसान   और   इंचियोन  .
In addition  ,  Seoul  महानगर  Subway lines  1   ,  2  ,   और  7  ,  and major  राजमार्गों  intersect in  guro   ज़िला  .
the  name Guro originates from the legend  कि   नौ   (  )  बूढ़ा   मेन   (  Korean  :  ro ) enjoyed  आयु   in   the   ज़िला   .
A  डिजिटल  industrial complex is  स्तिथ  in Guro  ज़िला  .
the  Guro Digital Industrial  जटिल   ,   जिससे  played  a  leading industrial  भूमिका  mainly with textile manufacturing , dressmaking and other  labour-intensive   उद्योग  in  1967   ,   रै  been  rapidly   बदला  into an  it  industrial complex .
This complex played a  pivotal  role  in   the  economic  विकास  of the  दक्षिण  Korea 's development  era  ,  referred  to  as  the  ``   चमत्कार   on   the  Han  नदी  ``  ,   और  also contributed  10  percent of national export in  the  1970s .
Twenty-one percent of the total area  of  Guro District  is  a restricted zone to  be  used  as  a greenbelt  साथ  the only  arboretum   in   सियोल  .
the   मण्डल   is  changing into  a  lively  ज़िला   as  large  labour-intensive  factories  हैं  moving  इससे  the area and  the   परिषद   is  developing what it  शर्तें  its  चार   zones  .
An  ``   e-government   ``  system based  on  this  hosted  the international e-participation  फ़ोरम   on  February 7–9 , 2007  ,   साथ  the participation  of   अधिक   than   thirty-seven  countries .
The forum was  शुभारम्भ  with the  थीम  ``  promoting  Democracy and Regional  विकास   ''  and twenty-five mayors including André  santini   (  Issy-les-Moulineaux ,  फ़्रांस   )   ,   केविन   foy  ( Chapel Hill  ,  US  )  ,  apirak  Kosayothin  (   बैंकॉक  , Thailand ) , Uvais Mohamed  emthiyas  (  कोलोन  , Sri  लंका   )   ,   और  world experts such  as   dr  William H.  dutton   (  Director of Oxford Internet Institute at the University of Oxford  ,  UK ) and  dr   ari-veiko   anttiroiko  (  प्राध्यापक  at the University of Tampere , Finland ) participated  in  the forum .
The Guro Declaration , adopted  दौरान  the forum  ,  aims  to  set up  a  portal  साईट   लिये  e-government  विकास   और  to establish a concrete project in order  to  bridge the  डिजिटल   divide   among   the  world  's  cities .
This  अभ्यास  has been recognised for providing  a  new important step in the  विकास   of  e-democracy  .
the   e-participation   फ़ोरम   थी   a  key factor  लिये   guro   to   खेल  the leading role  in   bridging  the digital divide among cities ,  to   provide  I.T  .   उद्यमों  located in  guro   डिजिटल  Industrial  जटिल  the opportunity to launch  into   the  international market ,  to   improve  its image  और  become  a   वैश्विक  leader  to   कंक्रीट   e-democracy  .
the  international  e-participation   फ़ोरम   on  February 7–9 , 2007
A  wonton  ( also  spelled  wantan , wanton  ,   or   wuntun  in transcription  इससे   cantonese  ; Mandarin  :  húndùn )  is  a  प्रकार   of   पकौड़ी   commonly  found in a number  of   चाइनीज  cuisines  .
Many people were involved  in  the invention of radio  as  we  अभी  know it  .
अनेक   संभावित   विधि   of   बेतार  communication  यहूद  considered  ,  including inductive and  capacitive  induction and  हस्तांतरण   through  the  मैदान  ,  however  the method used for  रेडियो  today exclusively involves the transmission and  रिसेप्शन  of electromagnetic waves .
After  जल्दी   अटकलें  on the subject , experimental work  on  the connection between electricity and magnetism began around  1820  with the  कार्य   of   hans   ईसाई  Ørsted and continued  साथ   the  work of André-Marie Ampère  ,   जोसेफ  Henry  ,   और   माइकल   फैराडे  .
ये  investigations culminated in the  पूरा   सिद्धान्त   of  electromagnetism  विकसित  by James  क्लर्क  Maxwell  .
इस   सिद्धान्त   वर्णित   the  theoretical  आधार   of   the   propagation  of electromagnetic waves .
After Maxwell 's  सिद्धान्त  was published  अनेक  people  experimented   साथ  wireless  संचार  ,  कुछ   intentionally  using Maxwell  's  theory some not  .
It is  माना  likely that the  पहला  intentional transmission of a  सिग्नल   by  means  of   इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक   लहरें   थी   performed   by   दाउद  Edward Hughes around 1880 , although  इस   थी  considered to  be  induction at the time .
the  first systematic and unequivocal transmission of EM  लहरें  was performed by  heinrich  Rudolf Hertz and described  in  papers published  in  1887 and 1890 .
Hertz famously considered these  परिणाम   as  being  of   छोटी  practical  मान   .
बाद   हर्ट्ज़   's  work many people were involved  in  the development  of  components and theory involved with  the  transmission and reception of  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  waves  .
Others  ,   notably   guglielmo   मार्कोनी  , were  चिंतित  with practical improvements  और   the  commercial application of radio  to   बेतार  telegraphy .
बाद  on Reginald A. Fessenden became the  पहला  to  भेजें  an audio  सिग्नल   by   अर्थात्  of electromagnetic  लहरें   .
Scurvy  is  a  बीमारी  resulting  इससे  a deficiency  of  vitamin C , which is  जरूरी  for the synthesis of  कोलेजन  in  इंसानो  .
the  chemical name for  विटामिन   c  ,  एस्कॉर्बिक  acid , is derived  इससे  the Latin name  of  scurvy  ,   scorbutus  ,  जिससे   भी  provides the  क्रियाशील  scorbutic ( `` of  ,  characterized by  or   having   to   do   साथ   स्कर्वी   ''  ) .
Scurvy often  presents  itself  initially   as   लक्षण   of  malaise and  lethargy  , followed by formation of  धब्बे  on  the   स्किन  , spongy gums  ,  and  bleeding  from the mucous membranes .
Spots are  सबसे  abundant on the thighs and  टाँगे  , and a person  साथ   the  ailment looks  पाले   ,   feels  depressed  ,  and  is  partially  immobilized  .
As scurvy advances  ,  there can  be  open ,  suppurating   wounds  , loss of teeth , jaundice , fever , neuropathy and death .
Scurvy was at one time  आम   among  sailors  ,   pirates  and  अन्य  aboard ships at  समुद्र   longer   than   perishable   फल   और  vegetables could be stored ( subsisting instead only  on   cured  and  salted  meats and dried  दाने  ) and by soldiers similarly  वंचित   of  these foods for  विस्तारित   अवधि  .
it   थी   वर्णित   by  Hippocrates  (  c.  460   bc–c   .  380 BC )  ,  and herbal cures  लिये  scurvy have  महरूम  known in many  देशी  cultures since  प्रागितिहास  .
Scurvy was one of the limiting  कारकों  of marine travel  ,  often killing  विशाल  numbers  of  the passengers  और   क्रू  on long-distance voyages  .
This became a  significant  issue in  यूरोपीय  from  the  beginning of the modern  era   in  the  आयु   of   डिस्कवरी  in  the   15th   सदी   ,   continuing  to  खेल   a   significant   भूमिका   through  World  युद्ध  I  in   the  20th  सदी  .
While  आज   स्कर्वी  is  ज्ञात  to be  caused  by a nutritional  कमियां  ,  जबतक   the  isolation of vitamin C  और  direct evidence of its  कड़ी   to   स्कर्वी   in   1932  , numerous  theories  and  उपचार   यहूद   प्रस्तावित  ,  प्रायः   on  little or no  प्रायोगिक  data .
This inconsistency  is  attributed  to  the  कमी  of vitamin C  as  a distinct  अवधारणा  , an inability  to   reliably  link different foods ( notably  उपस्थित   in  fresh  citrus  ,  watercress  , and  अंग  meat )  to  scurvy .
An additional concept required  to   समझे  scurvy  थी   the   degradation  of vitamin C by exposure to air  और   तांबे  and other transition  मेटल   लवण  such  as  those of  आयरन   ,  thus changing  the  links of  भोजन  to scurvy over  समय  .
उपचार   by  fresh food ,  विशेषकर   citrus   फल  ,  थी  periodically implemented , as it had  महरूम  since antiquity  .
however  until  the  1930s , treatment was inconsistent  ,  with many ineffective treatments used  into  the  20th  century .
It  थी  a Scottish surgeon in the Royal Navy , James Lind  जो  first  proved  it  could   be  treated with  citrus   फल   in  experiments  he   वर्णित   in   उसके   1753  book  ,   a  Treatise of the Scurvy , though  उसके  advice was  नहीं   implemented   by   the  Royal Navy  लिये  several decades .
In infants  ,   स्कर्वी  is sometimes  referred  to as Barlow 's disease , named  बाद   सर   थामस  Barlow , a British physician who  वर्णित  it .
However , Barlow 's disease may  भी   refer  to  mitral  valve  prolapse  .
अन्य  eponyms for  स्कर्वी  include Moeller 's disease and Cheadle 's disease  .
Scurvy  करता   नहीं  occur in  सबसे   पशु  because  वे  can synthesize  उनके  own vitamin C  .
However , humans and other higher primates (  the  simians  -  monkeys  और   apes   -   और  tarsiers ) ,  गिनी  pigs  ,   सबसे   or   सब   bats  ,  और   कुछ  species  of  birds  और  fish lack  an  enzyme  (  L-gulonolactone  oxidase   )  necessary  लिये  such  संश्लेषण  and  जरूर  obtain vitamin C through  उनके   आहार  .
विटामिन   c  is  फैली   in  plant tissues , with particularly  ऊँची  concentrations  occurring  in citrus  फल  ( oranges , lemons , limes  ,  grapefruits )  ,   टमाटर  ,  आलू   ,   पत्तागोभी   ,   और  green  मिर्च  .
Iron is a  रासायनिक   तत्व  with the  प्रतीक  Fe  (   इससे  ) and  परमाणु  number 26  .
It is  a   मेटल   in   the  first transition  श्रेणी  .
It is the most common  तत्व  (  by  mass  )   forming   the  planet Earth  as   a  whole , forming much of Earth  's   बाहरी  and  भीतरी   कोर  .
it   is   the   चौथी  most common element  in   the  Earth  's  crust  .
आयरन  's very common presence in rocky planets like  धरती   is   due  to  इसके  abundant production as a result  of  fusion in high-mass  सितारों   ,  where  the  production  of  nickel-56 (  जिससे   decays  to the most common  समस्थानिक  of  आयरन  ) is the  पिछला   नाभिकीय   संलयन  reaction that  is  exothermic  .
This  कल्याणकारी  radioactive  निकल   to  become the  पिछला  element to be produced before collapse of a supernova leads to the  विस्फोटक   कार्यक्रम  that scatter  इस  precursor  radionuclide  of  आयरन  abundantly  into   स्पेस   .
जैसे   अन्य   समूह  8 elements , iron exists in  a   चौड़ी   दायरा  of  ऑक्सीकरण  states  ,  −2 to  +6   ,  although +2  और  +3 are the most common  .
Elemental iron  occurs  in  meteoroids  and other  कम   ऑक्सीजन  environments  ,  but is reactive  to   ऑक्सीजन  and  जल  .
Fresh  आयरन   सतहों   appear  lustrous silvery-gray , but  oxidize  in  सामान्य   एयर  to give  hydrated  iron oxides , commonly  ज्ञात  as rust .
नापसंद   अनेक  other metals  जिससे  form  passivating   ऑक्साइड  layers , iron  आक्साइड   occupy   अधिक  volume than iron metal , and thus  आयरन  oxides  फ्लेक   बंद   और  expose fresh  सतहों  for corrosion  .
आयरन  metal has  महरूम  used since ancient  टाइम्स  , though copper alloys ,  जिससे   have   निम्नतर  melting temperatures  ,  were  प्रयुक्त   पहला  in  इतिहास  .
pure   आयरन  is soft ( softer than aluminium )  ,  but  is   unobtainable  by smelting  .
The material is significantly  hardened   और   strengthened  by  impurities  from the smelting  प्रक्रम  , such as carbon .
a  certain  proportion  of  कार्बन   (  between 0.002 % and 2.1 % )  produces  steel ,  जिससे  may be  up  to 1000 times harder than  pure   आयरन   .
Crude  आयरन  metal is produced in  धमाका  furnaces ,  जहाँ  ore is reduced  by  coke to  सुअर   आयरन   ,  which  रै   a  high  कार्बन  content .
further  refinement with oxygen  reduces  the carbon content to the correct  proportion   to   मेक  steel .
steels   और   कम   कार्बन  iron alloys with other metals (  मिश्रधातु  steels ) are  by  far  the   सबसे   आम   धातुओं  in industrial use  ,  due  to  their great  दायरा   of  desirable  गुण  and the abundance of iron  .
आयरन  chemical compounds  ,  which include ferrous and  ferric  compounds , have  अनेक  uses  .
आयरन   ऑक्साइड   मिश्रित   साथ  aluminium  चूर्ण  can  be  ignited  to  create a thermite  प्रतिक्रिया   ,  used in welding  और  purifying  ores  .
It  फ़ॉर्म   शब्दकोष  compounds with the halogens  और  the chalcogens .
among  its  कार्बधातुक  compounds is ferrocene , the first sandwich compound  खोजा   .
Iron  plays   an   महत्वपूर्ण  role in biology ,  forming   देवालय  with molecular oxygen  in  hemoglobin  और   myoglobin  ;  ये  two compounds are  आम  oxygen transport proteins in vertebrates .
Iron is  भी  the metal used at  the  active  साईट   of   अनेक   महत्वपूर्ण   रेडॉक्स  enzymes  dealing   साथ  cellular respiration  और  oxidation  और  reduction  in  plants and animals .
the   ब्लू  Cross Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA  )   is   a   संघ  of 38 separate health  बीमे  organizations and companies in  the   संयुक्त  States  .
Combined ,  वे  directly  or  indirectly provide health  बीमे  to over 99 million Americans .
the  history of  ब्लू  Cross  तिथियाँ  back  to  1929 , while the  इतिहास  of Blue Shield dates to 1939  .
The  ब्लू  Cross Association  तिथियाँ   वापस  to  1960  ,  जबकि   इसके   ब्लू  Shield counterpart  थी  created in  1948   .
the  two  संगठन  merged  in  1982 , forming the current association  .
A potato  चिप  ( known as  a   चिप  in American  ,  Australian , New Zealand ,  कनाडाई  ,  singaporean  ,  हांग  Kong  ,   दक्षिण   अफ़्रीकी  and  jamaican  English ; as  a  crisp  in  British English and  hiberno-english  , and  as   either  a  चिप  or wafer  in  Indian English ) is a thin slice of potato that  is  deep  fried   or   baked  until crunchy .
आलू  chips  हैं  commonly served as an  क्षुधावर्धक  ,  पक्ष  dish  ,   or  snack .
The  मौलिक   चिप्स   हैं  cooked and  salted  ; additional  किस्में  are  manufactured   using  various  flavorings   और   संघटक  including seasonings , herbs ,  मसाले   ,   cheeses  ,  और   कृत्रिम   एडिटिव   .
``   crisps  ''  ,   however   ,   may   भी  refer to many  अलग  types  of  savory snack  उत्पाद   बेची   in  the United  किंगडम   और   आयरलैंड   ,  some  बना   इससे   आलू  ,  लकिन  may also be made from  मक्का  , tapioca  or  other cereals .
an  example of these kinds of  savory  snacks  is   दानव   चबाना  .
Potato chips  हैं  a  predominant  part of the snack food market in English-speaking  देशों   और  numerous other  पश्चिमी   राष्ट्र  .
the  global potato  चिप   मार्केट  generated  कुल   revenues  of US $  16.4  billion  in  2005 .
इस  accounted for 35.5 %  of  the  कुल  savory snacks market in  कि  year  (   us   $   46.1  billion ) .
हेनरी  Clay ,  sr.  ( April  12   ,  1777 – June 29 ,  1852  )  थी   a  lawyer ,  राजनेता   और   skilled  orator  जो   represented  Kentucky in both  the   सीनेट   और  in the House  of  Representatives .
he   परोसा   तीन  different  शर्तें   as  Speaker of  the   संयुक्त  States House of  प्रतिनिधि   और   थी   भी  Secretary  of   राज्य  from 1825  to   1829  .
He  खोया   उसके  campaigns for president in  1824  , 1832 and 1844 .
Clay  थी  a dominant  फिगर   in   दोनो   the  First  और  Second Party  प्रणालियों  .
as   a   अग्रणी  war hawk  in   1812   ,  he favored war with Britain  और   निभाई   a   significant  role in  अग्रणी  the nation  to   युद्ध  in the War of 1812 .
in  1824 he  भागा  for president and lost , but  फेंका   उसके  electoral  मत  to  जॉन   क्विंसी   एडम्स   ,   जो  made  उसे   सचिव  of state  as   the  Jacksonians  denounced  what they  माना  a ``  भ्रष्ट  bargain  .  ''
He ran and  खोया   again  in 1832 and 1844 as the candidate  of  the Whig Party  ,   जिससे   he   संस्थापित  and  प्रायः  dominated  .
Clay was the foremost proponent of the American System ,  लड़  for  an  increase  in   tariffs  to  फोस्टर  industry in the  संयुक्त  States ,  the   उपयोग   of  federal funding to build  और   maintain   अवसंरचना   ,   और   a  strong  नेशनल  bank .
He opposed  the  annexation of  टेक्सास   ,  fearing  it  would  इंजेक्ट   the   गुलामी   समस्या  into  राजनीती  .
मिट्टी  also opposed the Mexican-American War and  the   ``   manifest  Destiny  ``   नीति  of  डेमोक्रेट   ,   जिससे  cost him  मत   in   the  close 1844  चुनाव   .
उतावले   the  `` Great Pacificator  ,  ''  मिट्टी  brokered important  compromises  during the  nullification  Crisis  और  on  the   गुलामी   समस्या  .
as   भाग   of  the `` Great Triumvirate  ``  or `` Immortal Trio , ''  साथ  with  उसके   सहयोगियों   डेनियल  Webster and John  C.   calhoun  , he was instrumental in formulating  the  Missouri  सुलह  of 1820 and  the  Compromise  of   1850  .
he   थी  viewed  as  the primary representative  of   पश्चिमी   रूचि  in  इस   समूह  ,  और   थी  given the  names  `` Henry of  the   वेस्ट  ''  और  `` The  पश्चिमी  Star . ''
A plantation  मालिक  , Clay  आयोजित   स्लेव   दौरान   उसके  lifetime but freed them in his Will .
Abraham Lincoln  ,  the Whig  नेता  in  इलिनोइस   ,  was a great admirer of Clay  ,  saying he  थी  ``  my   आदर्श  of  a  great  man  . ''
lincoln   wholeheartedly  supported Clay  's  economic programs .
in  1957  ,  a Senate Committee  चयनित   मिट्टी   as   एक  of the  पाँच  greatest U.S . Senators ,  साथ  with Daniel Webster  ,  John  C.   calhoun   ,   रॉबर्ट   la   follette   ,   और   रॉबर्ट  Taft  .
bj  's Wholesale Club , Inc. ,  commonly   referred  to simply as  bj   's  , is  a   membership-only   गोदाम  club chain operating  on   the  United  राज्य  East Coast  ,  as  खूब  as  in  the  राज्य  of Ohio .
The  कम्पनी  is ranked  #   232   on  Fortune  पत्रिका   's  2010  लिस्टिंग   of  America 's  500   largest   पब्लिक   corporations  .
the  Wizard  of   oz  , known during  उसके   शासनकाल  as The Great and Powerful Oz  ,   is  the epithet of  ऑस्कर  Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkel  emmannuel   ambroise  Diggs  ,   a   fictional   अक्षर   in  the  जमीन  of Oz ,  निर्मित  by  अमरीकी  author  L.   फ़्रैंक  Baum .
The character was  further   popularized   by   the  classic 1939 movie , wherein his full name  is  not  उल्लेखित   .
kristinia   जेमी  DeBarge (  ;  born March  8  , 1990  )  is  an   अमरीकी   सिंगर   ,  songwriter ,  नर्तकी  and  अभिनेत्री   .
She first  appeared   on  national television in 2003 as a  प्रतियोगी   on  the  अमरीकी  Idol  spin-off  , American Juniors  .
In  2009   ,  DeBarge signed a contract with the  द्वीप   रिकॉर्ड  department  sodapop  ,  releasing  her  डेब्यू  album Exposed  in  July of  the  same  साल   .
the   पहला   सिंगल  , ``  अलविदा   ``  ,  पहुँचे  the top 20 in the  us   और   कनाडा   .
the  lead  सिंगल   (  `` Cry  भेड़िया   ''   )  from  उसके   बेनाम   sophomore  album  थी  released on  सितंबर   27   ,   2012  .
the   हवाई   योद्धाओं  football  टोली  represents  the  University  of   hawaiʻi   at   mānoa  in NCAA  प्रभाग  I  fbs  college  फ़ुटबॉल  .
The team is coached by Norm Chow .
It  थी   भाग  of the  पश्चिमी   एथलेटिक  Conference  जबतक  July 2012 ,  जब   the   टोली  joined  the   पहाड़  West  सम्मेलन  .
the   हवाई  Warriors were the third non-AQ team to  खेल   in  a  bcs  bowl game  ;  losing  to   जॉर्जिया  41–10  in  the Sugar Bowl on January 1 ,  2008   in   नई   ऑरलियन्स  ,  louisiana   .
Marvin Gaye ( April 2 ,  1939april   1  , 1984  )   ,  born Marvin  pentz   gay  ,  jr.  , was an American singer-songwriter and musician .
Gaye  helped   to  shape  the  sound of Motown Records in  the  1960s  साथ   a  string of hits  सहित  ``  कैसा  Sweet It  is  ( To Be Loved By You  )  `` and ``  i   सुना  It Through the  grapevine   ``   और   duet  recordings  साथ  Mary  कुएं   और  Tammi Terrell  ,   बाद  earning the  शीर्षक  `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince  of   आत्मा  '' .
दौरान  the 1970s  ,  Gaye recorded  the  concept  एल्बम   कया  's  going  On and Let 's Get It  on   और  became  among  the  पहला   कलाकारों   in   motown  to break away  इससे   the  reins of  इसके   उत्पादन  company .
Gaye 's  बाद  recordings influenced  अनेक  R &  b  subgenres such as  शांत   तूफ़ान  and  neo-soul   .
Following a  काल  in  यूरोपीय  under a  कर  exile in the  जल्दी   1980s  ,  gaye  released the 1982 Grammy  award-winning   hit  ``  यौन  Healing `` and the  मध्यरात्रि   प्रेम   एल्बम  .
Since his death  in   1984  , Gaye has  महरूम  posthumously  सम्मानित  by many institutions  ,   सहित   the  Grammy  आजीवन   उपलब्धि  Award and  the  Rock and Roll  हॉल  of Fame .
स्थान  of Chernobyl nuclear  शक्ति  plant
the  abandoned city of Pripyat with Chernobyl plant in  the   अलहदा
Abandoned  आवास   ब्लॉक  in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (  ,  Chornobylska  katastrofa  – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was  a   अनर्थकारी  nuclear accident that  occurred  on 26  अप्रैल   1986  at  the   chernobyl   नाभिकीय  Power Plant  in  Ukraine ( then officially  the  Ukrainian  ssr   )   ,  which was  अंतर्गत   the  direct  क्षेत्राधिकार  of  the   सेंट्रल  authorities  of  the  सोवियत  Union  .
An explosion  और  fire  released   विशाल   quantities  of  रेडियोसक्रिय  particles  into   the  atmosphere ,  जिससे  spread over  much  of  the  western USSR and Europe .
the   chernobyl  disaster  is  widely considered  to   have   महरूम  the worst nuclear power plant accident  in   इतिहास  ,  और  is one of only two classified as  a   स्तर   7  event on  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Nuclear Event  स्केल   (   the   अन्य  being the Fukushima  daiichi   नाभिकीय  disaster in 2011 ) .
the  battle to contain the  संदूषण   और   avert   a  greater  प्रलय  ultimately  शामिल   over   500,000  workers  और  cost  an   अनुमानित  18  अरब  rubles  .
The  आधिकारिक  Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths  रै   महरूम  disputed , and  long-term  effects  ऐसे   as  cancers and  deformities  are  स्टिल   होने  accounted  लिये  .
mrs.  Claus  says   अलविदा  to her husband as  he  sets  बंद  on his journey in this  1919  postcard
mrs.  Claus  is   the   बीवी   of   सांता   क्लॉस   ,   the  Christmas gift-bringer  in  North American and European  क्रिसमस  tradition .
She  is  known for  बनाना  cookies with  the   elves   और  preparing toys  साथ  her  husband   सांता   क्लॉस   .
उसके  first  नाम   is  a mystery ,  हालांकि   वो   रै  been  referred  to as  मरियम   ,   जेसिका   ,  Layla , Annette  ,   हीदी  , or Martha  .
HijackThis ( also HiJackThis  or  HJT ) is an open source  enumerating   औजार  for Microsoft Windows originally created  by   merijn  Bellekom , and later  बेची  to Trend Micro .
the  program is  notable   लिये   लक्ष्यीकरण   browser-hijacking  methods ,  बल्कि  than relying  on   a   डेटाबेस  of  ज्ञात   स्पाइवेयर  .
It  scans   a  user 's computer  जल्दी   ,   और   प्रदर्शक  browser hijacking locations  ,  showing  कया  entries are there .
HijackThis is  प्रयुक्त  primarily for  निदान  of  ब्राउजर   hijacking   ,   as   uninformed  use  of   इसके  removal  सुविधाएं  can cause  significant  software damage to a computer .
hijackthis   करता  not remove  or  detect spyware ; it lists most common locations  जहाँ  browser  hijacking  activity  can  occur .
Browser hijacking can  कारण  malware  to  be installed on a  कंप्यूटर   .
On  फ़रवरी   16  , 2012  ,  Trend Micro  released   the  HijackThis source code as open  सोर्स   और   it  is  अभी  available  on  the SourceForge  साईट  .
Saddle Creek  रिकॉर्ड  is an  अमरीकी   रिकार्ड   लेबल  based  in  Omaha  ,  Nebraska .
Started  as  a college  क्लास   प्रोजेक्ट   on  entrepreneurship  ,   the  label was founded  by  Mike Mogis and Justin Oberst  in  1993 (  as  Lumberjack Records  )  .
mogis  soon turned  over  his  भूमिका  in the  कम्पनी   to  Robb Nansel  .
The  लेबल  is  नामित  after  काठी  Creek  सड़क  ,  a  street that cuts  through  the  ईस्ट  side  of   midtown   ओमाहा  ,  और  the  beginnings   of  a  झाँकी  whose  सदस्यों   शामिल   conor   oberst   (  then a solo  कलाकार  ,  फिलहाल  of  उज्जवल  Eyes  ,  Conor  oberst  and the  रहस्यवादी  Valley Band ,  desaparecidos   और  Monsters of  लोक   )   ,  Tim Kasher (  तब  of Slowdown Virginia , currently of  कर्सिव   और  The Good  जीवन   )   ,   और  others .
collectively  , they were known  unofficially  as the  ``  Creekers  ''   .
Saddle Creek  पहला   appeared   in  print  on   a   दिखाएँ  flyer , offering to `` Spend an  संध्या  with  काठी   क्रीक   ''  ( later  to  be the title  of  the  लेबल  's DVD  .  )
Saddle  क्रीक  became  an  incorporated entity  as  a result  of  a class project on entrepreneurship .
Distribution is handled by the  वैकल्पिक   वितरण  Alliance ,  जिससे  is  अंतर्गत  the Warner Music Group umbrella .
Saddle  क्रीक  Records continues  to  be  the  flagship label of  a  style of  म्यूज़िक  called  ``   the  Omaha Sound ``  ,  characterized by a slight country  twang  .
This  is   increasingly  inaccurate  ,  though  ,   साथ  the rise  of   अधिक  electronic  ध्वनि  such as  those  favored by  the  Faint and  टूटा  Spindles .
the  eclectic  ध्वनि   of  Saddle  क्रीक  's disparate member bands is  somewhat  explained by  उनके  history ; a  क्रमांक   of   the   असली  members of the label  attended   ग्रेड  school together  .
A  ``   सिस्टर  label '' ,  of  sorts  ,   to  Saddle Creek  is  Team  प्रेम   ,  started by Conor  oberst  in  2004  .
The  लेबल  opened  बाहें  to  उनके  first bands  नहीं  based  in   ओमाहा   in   2001  with releases by  अभी   it   's   ओवरहेड   और  Sorry About  ड्रेसडेन  .
Other  non-nebraskan   कलाकारों  followed ,  सहित   लॉस   एंजिल्स  's Rilo Kiley , Eric Bachmann  (  formerly leader of Archers of  loaf  and  कुटिल   उंगलियाँ  from  उत्तर   कैरोलिना  ) ,  georgie  James ( Washington D.C. ) , Two Gallants  (  San  फ्रांसिस्को   )  , and  सबसे   recently  Tokyo  पुलिस   क्लबों  (  टोरंटो  )  .
in  2005 ,  खर्च   an  Evening with  काठी  Creek  ,  a documentary  detailing   the  first ten years of the  रिकार्ड  label 's history ,  थी   released   .
The DVD features  extensive  interviews  साथ  the  काठी  Creek bands , archival footage , and rare live  प्रदर्शन  .
on  June 8  ,  2007 ,  the  label  खोली   उनके  own  म्यूज़िक   स्थान  named Slowdown  (  after the  समूह  Slowdown  वर्जिनिया   )  , located in downtown  ओमाहा   ,  Nebraska .
The following is a  सूची  of episodes for the television show  पूरा  House  .
In total  ,  there  यहूद  192 episodes filmed for  the  show over  the  course of its eight seasons ,  इससे  1987 to 1995 .
Full House  is  a situation comedy which chronicles a  विधवा  father  's   struggles  of  उठाने  his  तीन   यंग  daughters  और  the  जीवनदान  that they have touched  .
The  patriarch  of  the   परिवार  ,  डैनी  (  bob  Saget )  ,  invites his  brother-in-law  Jesse (  जॉन  Stamos ) and his  बेहतरीन   dost   जॉय   (   डेव  Coulier )  ,  to help  उठाएँ   उसके   children  (  candace  Cameron  ,   jodie  Sweetin , and Mary Kate/Ashley Olsen  )  , after his wife was killed  दौरान   an   ऑटोमोबाइल  accident  involving   a  drunk driver .
बाद  episodes 88  और  89 , Jesse  marries  Becky ( Lori Loughlin  )   ,  and they move into the  अटारी  .
तब  , after episodes 104 and 105 , Becky and  जेसी  have twin boys named Nicky  और  Alex (  डेनियल   और   केविन  Renteria/Blake and Dylan Tuomy-Wilhoit  )   .
The series  ends  with episode  192  , ``  मिशेल  Rides Again Part 2  ''   ,  when Michelle loses her memory and  the  family  कोशिशें  to  restore  it .
सूचना   of   स्टैम्प   अधिनियम   of  1765 in Newspaper
American  अखबारों   reacted   to   the  Stamp  अधिनियम   साथ  anger and predictions of the demise of  पत्रकारिता  .
The Stamp Act 1765 (  छोटी  title Duties in  अमरीकी   colonies   अधिनियम  1765  ;   5   जार्ज   iii  , c.  12  ) imposed  a  direct  कर   by   the   अंग्रेजों   पार्लियामेंट   specifically  on  the  colonies of British  अमेरिका   ,   और   it   जरूरी  that  अनेक  printed  सामग्री   in   the   colonies  be produced  on  stamped  पेपर  produced in London  ,  carrying an  embossed  revenue stamp  .
These printed materials  यहूद   विधिक  documents ,  मैगज़ीन   ,   अखबारों  and many other  प्रकार  of paper used  throughout  the  colonies  .
जैसे  previous taxes , the  स्टैम्प   कर  had  to   be   सशुल्क  in  मान्य  British  करेंसी  , not in colonial paper money .
The  purpose   of   the   कर   थी  to help  अदा  for troops stationed in North America  बाद  the  अंग्रेजों  victory  in  the  सात  Years '  युद्ध   .
the   अंग्रेजों  government felt  कि   the  colonies  यहूद   the  primary  beneficiaries  of  इस  military  उपस्थिति   ,   और  should  अदा  at least a  portion  of the expense .
The Stamp  अधिनियम   मिले  great  प्रतिरोध   in   the  colonies  .
The colonies  भेजा  no representatives to Parliament  ,  and  इसलिए  had no  influence   over  what taxes  यहूद   उठाया   ,  how they were  levied   ,   or  how they  होता  be spent .
Many  colonists  considered it  a  violation  of   उनके  rights as Englishmen to  be  taxed without  उनके  consent  —consent  that only  the  colonial legislatures could  ग्रान्ट   .
औपनिवेशिक   सभाओं   भेजा  petitions and protests .
The Stamp Act Congress held  in  New York City  ,  reflecting the  पहला   significant  joint  औपनिवेशिक   जवाब  to  कोई  British measure , also petitioned Parliament  और   the  King .
लोकल  protest groups ,  led  by colonial merchants  और  landowners  ,  established connections  through  correspondence that created a  ढीला  coalition that extended from New  इंग्लैण्ड   to  Georgia  .
Protests  और   demonstrations   initiated   by   the   बेटे  of Liberty often turned  हिंसक   और  destructive  as  the  masses   became   शामिल  .
Very soon all stamp tax distributors were  सहमे  into resigning  उनके  commissions  ,  and  the  tax was never effectively collected  .
Opposition to  the  Stamp Act was  नहीं   सीमित   to   the  colonies .
British  व्यापारियों  and manufacturers , whose  निर्यात   to   the   colonies  were threatened by colonial economic problems exacerbated  by  the  कर  , also pressured  पार्लियामेंट   .
The Act was repealed  on   कूच  18  ,   1766  as a  पदार्थ   of  expedience , but  पार्लियामेंट  affirmed  इसके  power to legislate for the colonies “in all cases  whatsoever”   by  also  गुजर  the Declaratory  अधिनियम  .
वहीँ   followed   a   श्रेणी  of new  कर   और  regulations  ,  likewise opposed  by   the  colonists .
The  एपीसोड  played a major  भूमिका  in  धमक  the grievances and  enabling  the organized colonial resistance that  led  to  the  American  क्रान्ति  in  1775   .
PT-105  underway  .
PT boats were  a  variety of  torpedo-armed  fast  आक्रमण   शिल्प  used  by   the  United States  नेवी  in  संसार  War  ii  to  आक्रमण  larger surface  जहाजों   .
``  PT  ''  is  the   us   हल  classification symbol for `` Patrol Torpedo ''  .
The  pt   नाव  squadrons  यहूद   nicknamed  `` the  मच्छर  fleet  ''   .
The Japanese called them  ``  Devil Boats '' .
the   असली  pre–  संसार   युद्ध   i   torpedo  boats were designed with ``  विस्थापन   ''  hulls .
They  विस्थापित   up   to  300  टन  and the  शीर्ष  speed was  .
The PT  नौकाएँ  used in World War II were built using the planing -type hull  रूप   विकसित   लिये  racing boats .
They  यहूद   much  smaller ( 30–75 tons ) and  तेज़   (   35–40   knots   )   .
दोनो  types were designed  to   स्ट्राइक   at  larger  warships  with torpedoes ,  using  relatively  ऊँची   गति  to  मिलेंगी   बंद  , and  छोटी  size to  avoid  being spotted and  hit  by gunfire .
They  यहूद   much   कम  expensive  than  large warships  .
PT  नौकाएँ  were  much  faster , smaller  ,   और  cheaper than  conventional  (  विस्थापन   हल  ) vessels  .
दौरान  World War  ii  , American PT boats  सगाई  enemy destroyers  और  numerous  अन्य  surface  शिल्प  , ranging from  छोटी  boats  to   विशाल   सप्लाई  ships .
PT  नौकाएँ   भी  operated  as  gunboats against  दुश्मन   छोटी  craft  ,  such as armored  barges  used by  the   जापानी  forces  लिये  inter-island  हस्तांतरण  .
Good Friday is a  धार्मिक  holiday  observed  primarily by  ईसाइयों   commemorating  the crucifixion  of   यीशु   मसीह   और   उसके  death  at  Calvary .
The  अवकाश  is observed during Holy Week  as  part of the Paschal  triduum  on the  शुक्रवार  preceding Easter Sunday , and  may   coincide   साथ   the  Jewish  observance   of  Passover  .
It  is   भी  known  as   पावन  Friday , Great Friday ,  ब्लैक   शुक्रवार  ,  or   ईस्टर  Friday , though the latter  properly  refers  to   the  Friday in  ईस्टर   सप्ताह   .
आधारित   on  the  विवरण   of  the  canonical  gospels , the  crucifixion   of  Jesus was most  संभावित  to have  महरूम  on  a  Friday  (   the  day before the  sabbath  )  (   )   .
The estimated year of  the  Crucifixion is  ad  33  ,  by two different groups  ,  and  originally   as  AD 34 by Isaac Newton via the  मतभेद  between the  biblical  and  जूलियन   पंचांग  and the crescent of the moon .
A third method , using  a  completely different astronomical approach  आधारित   on  a  चंद्र  Crucifixion  अंधेरा   और   ग्रहण   मॉडल  (  सतत  with  apostle  Peter 's reference  to   a   ``  moon  of   रक्त  ''  in  Acts  2:20   )  , points  to   शुक्रवार   ,  3 April AD 33 .
the   ग्रेट   जलाशय   is  the  largest  area  of   endorheic   watersheds  in North  अमेरिका  .
it  is noted  लिये  both  इसके   arid   शर्तें  and  इसके  Basin and range  स्थलाकृति   कि   varies  from  the   उत्तर  American  कम  point at  badwater  Basin  to  the highest point  of  the contiguous United States , less than away at the summit  of  Mount Whitney .
The region  spans  several physiographic divisions , biomes /  ecoregions  , and deserts .
Raster may refer to:
रास्टर  graphics , graphical techniques using arrays of  पिक्सेल  values
Raster  ग्राफिक्स  editor ,  a   कंप्यूटर  program
रास्टर  scan  ,   the   पैटर्न  of image  readout   ,   हस्तांतरण  , storage ,  और   पुनर्निर्माण  in television  और   कंप्यूटर  images
Rasterisation , or rasterization  ,  conversion  of  a vector image to  a   रास्टर  image
Raster image  प्रोसेसर   ,  or  rip  , a component of a  मुद्रण  system that performs  rasterisation
रास्टर  interrupt  ,  a  कंप्यूटर  interrupt signal
Raster to  वेक्टर  , an image conversion process
रास्टर   बार  ,  an  effect used  in  computer demos
Raster-Noton , a record  लेबल
rastrum  , a  यंत्र  used  in  medieval music manuscripts  to   चित्रण   स्टाफ   लाइनों
रास्टर   दस्तावेज़   ऑब्जेक्ट   ,  a  संचिका  format
Beowulf  (  ;  बूढ़ा  English  :  ) is a  legendary   geatish  hero and later turned king in the epic poem named after him  ,   एक  of the  oldest   surviving   टुकड़े  of literature in  the  English language .
The attack on  पर्ल   हार्बर  ( called Hawaii  आपरेशन   or  Operation  ai   by  the  जापानी  Imperial General Headquarters ( Operation Z  in  planning  )  and  the  Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was  a   आश्चर्य   सैन्य  strike conducted  by   the  Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at  पर्ल  Harbor , Hawaii , on  the   morning   of   दिसम्बर  7  ,  1941  (   दिसम्बर   8  in Japan  )  .
इससे  the standpoint  of   the  defenders  ,  the  आक्रमण   commenced  at 7:48  a.m.  Hawaiian  समय  .
The attack  थी  intended  as  a preventive action  in  order to keep the U.S.  प्रशांत   बेड़े  from interfering with  सैन्य   क्रियाएँ  the  साम्राज्य   of  Japan  थी  planning  in   southeast  Asia against overseas territories of  the  United Kingdom ,  the  Netherlands  ,  and  the  United States  .
The base was  attacked  by 353 Japanese fighters , bombers and  torpedo  planes in two  लहरें  , launched from six  वायुयान   वाहक   .
सब  eight  u.S.   नेवी   battleships  were damaged ,  साथ  four being sunk .
Two of  ये  were later  उठाया  , and with the remaining four repaired  ,  six  battleships   लौटे  to service later in the war  .
The Japanese  भी   sank  or damaged three  cruisers   ,   तीन  destroyers  ,  an  anti-aircraft  training ship , and one minelayer .
188 U.S.  वायुयान  were  नष्ट  ; 2,402  अमेरिकी  were killed  और  1,282 wounded  .
Important  आधार  installations  ऐसे   as   the  power station  ,   डॉकयार्ड   ,  maintenance  ,  and fuel  और  torpedo storage facilities  ,   as   खूब   as   the  submarine piers and headquarters building (  भी  home of the intelligence section  )   यहूद   नहीं  attacked .
Japanese  नुकसान  were light  :  29  वायुयान  and five  midget  submarines lost , and  65  servicemen killed or wounded  .
One Japanese sailor was  captured  .
The attack  आए  as  a   profound  shock to the American people and led directly to  the   अमरीकी  entry  into   संसार  War II in  दोनो  the Pacific and European theaters .
the  following day (  दिसम्बर   8  )  ,   the   संयुक्त  States  घोषित  war on Japan .
घरेलू  support for non-interventionism  ,  which had been strong  ,  disappeared .
clandestine   support   of  Britain ( for example  the   neutrality  Patrol ) was replaced by  क्रियाशील  alliance  .
Subsequent operations by  the  U.S.  prompted   जर्मनी  and Italy  to  declare  युद्ध  on the  u.S.   on   दिसम्बर  11  ,   जिससे   थी   reciprocated   by  the U.S.  the  same  दिन   .
वहीँ   यहूद  numerous historical  precedents   लिये  unannounced military action  by  Japan .
However , the  कमी  of any  औपचारिक   चेतावनी   ,  particularly  जबकि   negotiations   यहूद  still  जाहिर  ongoing  ,  led President Franklin  D.  Roosevelt  to  proclaim December  7  ,  1941   ,   ``   a   तिथि  which will live in infamy `` .
U.S.  रूट  85 ( US  85   )  is a north–south  संयुक्त   राज्य   राजमार्ग  that runs for in the Mountain - Northern Plains  राज्य  of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  .
The  दक्षिणी  terminus of  the  route  is  at the United States-Mexico border in El Paso  ,  Texas  ,  connecting with Mexican Federal  राजमार्ग  45 .
the   उत्तरी   टर्मिनस   is  at the  संयुक्त  States-Canada border in  fortuna  , North  डकोटा  ,  जहाँ  the  रूट  continues  उत्तर  as Saskatchewan Highway 35 .
in  both  the  United States and Saskatchewan  ,  Canada the route is known as the  canam  Highway .
Sections  of   us  85 are considered part  of  the  थियोडोर  Roosevelt Expressway  .
The  संयुक्त  States  अध्यक्षीय   चुनाव   of  1968 was the  46th  quadrennial presidential election , held on Tuesday , November  5  ,  1968  .
The Republican nominee  ,  former  vice-president  Richard  निक्सन   ,  won the  चुनाव   over   the   लोकतांत्रिक   nominee  , incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey .
Nixon  भागा  on  a   अभियान   कि  promised to restore law  और  order  to  the nation  's  cities , torn by riots  और   अपराधों   .
Analysts have argued  the   चुनाव  of 1968 is a  realigning  election  as  it  permanently   disrupted   the  New Deal Coalition  कि  had  वर्चस्व   अध्यक्षीय   राजनीती   लिये   36  years  .
Coming  चार  years  बाद  Democrat Lyndon B.  जॉनसन  won in a historic landslide , the election saw the incumbent president  मजबूर  out of  the  race and a Republican  निर्वाचित  for the first time  in  twelve years .
it  was  a  wrenching  नेशनल  experience  ,  conducted during a  साल  of  हिंसा  that  शामिल   the  assassination of civil  अधिकारों   नेता  Martin Luther King  ,  Jr.  ,  and subsequent race  दंगे  across the nation , the assasination of  लोकतांत्रिक   अध्यक्षीय  candidate Robert  F.  Kennedy  ,   फैली   विपक्ष   to  the Vietnam War across university  campuses   ,   और  violent confrontations between  पुलिस  and  anti-war  protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the  लोकतांत्रिक  party split again and again  .
The  चुनाव   प्रदर्शित  the strongest third party  प्रयत्न  since 1912 by former Alabama  राज्यपाल  George  वालेस   ,  a  डेमोक्रेट  .
क्युकी  Wallace  's  campaign opposed federal intervention  in  the  दक्षिण  to end school segregation  ,   he   carried   the   गहन  South and ran  खूब   in   जातीय   औद्योगिक   जिले  in the North .
This was the last  चुनाव   in   जिससे  New York had the  सबसे  votes  in   the   चुनावी  college  (  43 votes  )   .
After the  1970   जनसांख्यिकी   ,   कैलिफ़ोर्निया   gained  the  सबसे   चुनावी  votes and  रै  remained  the   सबसे  populous  राज्य  since then .
This is the  नवीनतम   चुनाव  where a presidential ticket won  बगैर  carrying the vice  अध्यक्षीय  candidate 's  घर   राज्य  .
Windows Task  मैनेजर  is a  कार्य  manager or  प्रणाली   मॉनिटर  application included with the Microsoft Windows  nt  family of operating  प्रणालियों  that provides limited information about  कंप्यूटर  performance and running  अनुप्रयोग  ,  प्रक्रियाओं   और  CPU  उपयोग   ,  commit  चार्ज  and memory information  ,  network activity and statistics  ,  logged-in users  ,   और   प्रणाली   सेवाएं   (  and as often  is  the case with  तन्त्र  tools provided by Microsoft for  खिड़कियाँ  ,  3rd  party software is available  जिससे  fills the  आवश्यकताएँ  more  thoroughly  , e.g  ,  ``  प्रक्रम  Explorer  ''  ,  ``  Extended  कार्य   मैनेजर  '' , ``  anvir   कार्य   मैनेजर  '' ,  ``  Process Hacker  ''  , and ``  प्रणाली  Explorer  ''  ) .
The Task Manager  can  also  be   प्रयुक्त  to set process  प्राथमिकताएं  ,  प्रोसेसर  affinity  ,   forcibly  terminate  प्रक्रियाओं  , and shut  bas  ,  restart  , hibernate or  log  off  इससे  Windows  .
खिड़कियाँ  Task Manager was  introduced   साथ   खिड़कियाँ   nt   4.0   .
पिछला   संस्करण   of  Windows NT included  the   कार्य  List application  ,  which had  दूर   कम   सुविधाएँ  .
The  कार्य  list  थी  capable  of   लिस्टिंग  currently running processes and killing  उन्हें   ,   or   बनाना   a  new process .
In  खिड़कियाँ  XP  तभी  , a  shutdown  menu is also  उपस्थित  that allows access to Standby  ,   hibernate   ,   फेरे  off ,  restart   ,  Log Off and  स्विच  User .
पहले   संस्करण  of  microsoft   खिड़कियाँ  ( Microsoft  खिड़कियाँ  3.x ,  खिड़कियाँ  95  ,  Windows 98 )  था  a program known  as  tasks  to   प्रदर्शक   the  programs  फिलहाल   कार्यशील  .
This file was  चलाया   by  running the  taskman.exe  file  इससे  the  c  :  \खिड़कीs  directory .
कांजी   (   ;  )  हैं  the  अपनाया   logographic   चाइनीज   वर्ण  ( hanzi  )  that are  प्रयुक्त   in   the  modern Japanese  लिखने   प्रणाली  along with  hiragana   (   ひらがな  ,  )   ,  katakana (  カタカナ  ,  )  , Hindu-Arabic numerals ,  और  the occasional use  of  the Latin  वर्णमाला  .
The Japanese  पद  kanji ( ) for  the  Chinese  वर्ण  literally  अर्थात्   ``  Han  वर्ण  ''  और  is written using the same characters as the  चाइनीज  hanzi (  )  .
John  r  Williams (  may  4  ,   1782  – October  20  , 1854 ) was an American soldier , merchant ,  और  politician who is most well known  लिये  serving as  the  first mayor of  डेट्रॉयट   ,  Michigan  .
in  total  ,  he served  as   डेट्रॉयट   's  mayor for  पाँच  other  शर्तें  .
He  भी   थी  a brigadier general in the United States Army during  the  Black Hawk  युद्ध   .
A simple  शुष्क  magnetic  पोर्टेबल  compass .
A smartphone that  can  be used as  a  compass because of  the  magnetometer  अंदर   .
an   iphone  that can be used as a  geological  compass  क्युकी  of the 3-axis  teslameter  and 3-axis accelerometer inside it
A  सैन्य  compass  कि  was  प्रयुक्त   दौरान   संसार   युद्ध   i   .
A compass is  a  navigational instrument that shows directions  in  a  फ़्रेम   of  reference that  is  stationary relative to the  सतह   of  the earth .
The frame of  सन्दर्भ  defines  the  four  कार्डिनल  directions  (  or  अंक  ) –  उत्तर   ,  south  ,  east ,  और  west .
Intermediate directions  हैं   भी  defined .
Usually , a diagram called a compass rose , which  shows  the directions ( with their  names  usually  abbreviated  to initials ) , is  चिह्नित  on  the   कम्पास   .
जब  the compass is  in  use , the rose is  लकीर  with  the  real directions in the frame  of   सन्दर्भ  , so ,  लिये  example  ,  the `` N '' mark on the  रोज़  really points to  the   उत्तर   .
अक्सर  , in addition to the rose or sometimes instead  of  it , angle  markings  in  डिग्री   हैं  shown  on  the  कम्पास   .
North  corresponds  to zero degrees ,  और   the  angles  बढ़ाएँ  clockwise  ,   so  east  is   90  degrees , south is 180 , and west is  270  .
ये   संख्याएँ   allow  the compass to show  azimuths  or  बियरिंग  , which are  commonly  stated in  इस  notation  .
The magnetic compass was first invented  as  a device  लिये   भविष्यवाणी   as  early as the Chinese  हान   राजवंश  (  चूंकि  about 206  bc   )  .
The  कम्पास   थी  used in Song  राजवंश  China by the military  लिये   navigational  orienteering  by   1040-1044  , and was  प्रयुक्त  for maritime  नेविगेशन  by 1111 to  1117   .
The use of a compass  is   अंकित  in  पश्चिमी  Europe between 1187  और   1202  ,  और  in Persia in  1232  .
The  शुष्क  compass  थी   invented  in  यूरोपीय  around  1300  .
This  थी  supplanted  in   the   जल्दी   20th  century by the liquid-filled  चुम्बकीय   कम्पास  .
The Inca  साम्राज्य   or   inka  Empire (  quechua  :  tawantinsuyu   )  was the  largest  empire in  pre-columbian  America .
the  administrative  ,  political and military  बीच   of   the  empire was located  in   कुज़्को  in modern-day Peru .
The Inca  सभ्यता   arose   इससे  the  हाइलैंड्स   of   पेरू   sometime  in the early  13th  century  .
इससे  1438  to   1533   ,   the  Incas used  a  variety of methods ,  इससे  conquest to  शांतिपूर्ण   सम्मिलन  ,  to  incorporate  a   विशाल  portion  of  western  दक्षिण   अमेरिका  , centered on  the   andean   पहाड़  ranges  ,   सहित  , besides Peru , large parts of  आधुनिक  Ecuador , western  और  south central  बोलीविया   ,   उत्तरपश्चिम   अर्जेंटीना   ,  north  और   सेंट्रल  Chile  ,   और  southern Colombia into  a  state  comparable   to  the  ऐतिहासिक  empires  of   यूरेशिया   .
The  आधिकारिक  language of the empire was Quechua ,  हालांकि   सैंकड़ों   of  local languages and dialects  of   quechua  were spoken .
The Inca referred  to   उनके   साम्राज्य   as   tawantinsuyu  which can  be  translated as  the  Four  regions  or The  चार   संयुक्त  Provinces .
There were many local forms  of  worship , most  of   उन्हें  concerning local  पवित्र  ``  huacas  `` ,  लकिन  the Inca  नेतृत्व  encouraged  the   इबादत   of  Inti  —the  sun  god—and   imposed  its  प्रभुता   ऊपर  other cults  ऐसे   as  that of  pachamama  .
the  Incas considered their  किंग  ,  the   sapa   इन्का  , to  be  the ``  चाइल्ड  of  the  sun  .   ''
the  kidneys are organs that  serve  several  अनिवार्य  regulatory roles in most animals ,  सहित  vertebrates  और  some  invertebrates  .
वे   हैं   अनिवार्य  in  the   urinary   प्रणाली  and also  serve   homeostatic  functions such  as  the  विनियमन  of  इलेक्ट्रोलाइट्स   ,   मेंटेनेंस   of  acid–base  संतुलन  , and regulation of  रक्त   दबाव  ( via maintaining salt and water balance ) .
They  serve   the  body as  a  natural  फिल्टर   of  the blood  ,  and remove wastes which are  diverted   to   the  urinary bladder .
in   producing  urine  ,  the kidneys excrete wastes such as urea  और   अमोनियम  , and  वे  are  भी  responsible for the reabsorption  of  water ,  ग्लूकोज  , and amino  acids  .
The  गुर्दे  also produce hormones including  calcitriol  ,  erythropoietin  , and the  एंजाइम  renin  .
स्तिथ  at  the  rear  of  the abdominal cavity in  the   retroperitoneum  ,  the   गुर्दे  receive blood from  the  paired  renal   धमनियों  ,  और   नाली   into   the   युग्म  renal veins  .
प्रत्येक  kidney excretes urine  into  a  ureter   ,  itself  a   युग्म  structure  कि   empties  into  the   urinary  bladder .
Renal physiology  is   the  study of  गुर्दा  function ,  जबकि  nephrology is the  चिकित्सा  specialty  चिंतित  with kidney  रोगों  .
Diseases of  the  kidney are  विविध   ,  but individuals with  गुर्दा   बीमारी  frequently display characteristic clinical  सुविधाएँ  .
आम  clinical  शर्तें   involving  the  गुर्दा  include the  nephritic   और   nephrotic  syndromes , renal cysts ,  अधि   गुर्दा   चोट   ,  chronic kidney  बीमारी   ,  urinary tract infection  ,   nephrolithiasis   ,   और   urinary   ट्रैक्ट   रुकावट  .
Various  cancers  of the  गुर्दा   मौजूद  ;  the  most  आम  adult renal  कर्कट  is  renal  cell carcinoma  .
cancers  , cysts ,  और   कुछ   अन्य  renal  शर्तें   can  be  प्रबंधित  with removal of  the  kidney  ,   or  nephrectomy .
When renal function , measured by  glomerular   filtration   रेट   ,  is  persistently   ग़रीब  , dialysis  और  kidney  प्रत्यारोपण  may  be   उपचार   विकल्प  .
Although  वे  are not severely  नुकसानदेह  , kidney stones  can   be   दुखद  and  a   nuisance  .
The removal of kidney  पत्थरों  involves ultrasound  उपचार   to   ब्रेक  up  the   पत्थरों   into  smaller pieces ,  जिससे  are then passed through the  urinary   ट्रैक्ट  .
One common symptom  of   गुर्दा  stones  is  a sharp pain in the medial/lateral segments of  the  lower back .
Lockton Companies  inc.   is   the   संसार  's largest  privately   आयोजित   बीमे   brokerage  firm , providing  बीमे   ,  risk management  और  employee benefits solutions .
In  जोड   to  its Kansas  नगर  , Missouri headquarters , Lockton operates 60 locations  in  17 countries  .
lockton  is  फिलहाल   घर  to  अधिक  than 4,450  शरीक   विश्वव्यापी   .
The  कम्पनी  was founded by  जोकर  Lockton in  1966  and  रै   चूंकि   become   the  world’s 9th largest  बीमे  brokerage  कड़  .
Lockton  serves  a  चौड़ी   सरणी  of  उद्योग  with services that include risk management , casualty , surety , professional  indemnity  and more  .
लिये   46   सालो  , Lockton posted  असाधारण   सशुल्क   विकास  ,  साथ  global revenues reaching  $  915 million  in  fiscal  2012   .
lockton  Benefits Group  :  Lockton’s Employee Benefit’s  टोली  works closely  साथ  insurance carriers  और  administrators to create comprehensive  और   एकीकृत   लाभ   रणनीति  for  क्लाइंट  .
The Lockton  लाभ   समूह  provides services  सहित  compliance  ,  executive benefits  ,  health and welfare  ,   स्वास्थ्य  risk solutions , retirement  और  more .
lockton  Affinity  :  Lockton  अपनापन  ,  an  affiliate of Lockton Companies  ,  meets the insurance needs  of  affinity groups  ,  franchises  ,   पेशेवर  organizations  ,  and associations of  सब   आकार   .
Lockton Affinity  offers  a  किस्में   of   बीमे  product  विकल्प  and programs .
Products  शामिल  : General Liability , Professional  देयता   ,  Property , Workers  मुआवजे  ,  निर्देशकों   &   अधिकारियों  Liability , Commercial  स्वचालित  ,  specialty  Coverage ,  excess   ,   स्वास्थ्य   योजनाएँ  and more .
lockton   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  : Lockton International  operates   कार्यालयों   in   the   uk   और  Ireland , as  खूब  as  कार्यालयों   throughout  Asia  और  Latin America .
In  यूरोपीय   ,   lockton   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  is a  संगी  in  eos  RISQ  ,  Europe’s leading insurance  ब्रोकिंग  and  रिस्क  management  कंसल्टेंसी  .
eos  RISQ is  an   equity-based  European partnership of major  स्वतंत्र  insurance brokers with  over  3,500 employees based in more than 30  देशों  in Europe  .
Lockton  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  provides  specialized  solutions for personal  लाइनों  ,  sme’s  and major multi-national  क्लाइंट  .
White chocolate  is   a  chocolate derivative .
It commonly  consists   of   cocoa  butter  ,  sugar ,  मिल्क   solids  and salt , and is characterized by  a  pale yellow or ivory appearance .
The  melting   पाइंट   of  cocoa  मक्खन  , its primary cocoa bean  घटक   ,  is high  पर्याप्त  to keep white  चॉकलेट  solid  at  room temperature  .
डोनाल्ड  Leon `` Don  ''   blankenship   (   born  March 14  ,   1950   )  was Chairman and CEO  of  Massey Energy  co.  ,  the  sixth  largest   कोयले   कम्पनी  (  by  2008 production  )  in the United States .
He  परोसा   in   those   भूमिकाएँ   इससे  November  30  ,  2000   ,   जबतक  December 31 , 2010  .
Blankenship is an  क्रियाशील  financial  backer  of the  रिपब्लिकन  party  और   भागीदार  in local and state politics  ,  especially in his  घर   राज्य   of  West  वर्जिनिया   .
He has  अक्सर   बोला  out publicly  परिचय   राजनीती  , the  पर्यावरण  , unions , and  कोयले   उत्पादन  .
U.S.  प्रतिभूति  and Exchange Commission  filings  show  blankenship  was  सशुल्क  $ 17.8 million in 2009  ,  the  उच्चतम  in the coal industry .
उसके  2009 pay represents a $  6.8  million raise over 2008 and almost double  उसके  compensation package in 2007 .
blankenship   भी   प्राप्त   a  deferred  मुआवजे   पैकेज  valued at $ 27.2 million in  2009   .
On December 3 ,  2010  ,  blankenship  announced that he was retiring  as  CEO  at  the end  of  the year  ,  and would be succeeded  by  Massey  अध्यक्ष   बैक्सटर   F.   phillips  Jr  .
धनुष  Wow is one of the  transcriptions   प्रयुक्त  in  अंग्रेज़ी   to  describe  a  dog 's bark .
धनुष   wow  may  भी  refer to:
धनुष   wow   (  band  )   ,  a  जापानी   मुश्किल  rock/heavy  मेटल   बैंड
Bow Wow  (  rapper  )  ,  an  American rapper and  कर्ता
धनुष   wow  Sauce ,  a  sauce developed in the  cotswolds  region of  इंग्लैण्ड
Bow  wow   wow   ,   a   uk   नई  wave band
``  धनुष  Wow '' , a song by The Fiery  furnaces   इससे   उनके  2003 album  gallowsbird  's  छाल
``  धनुष   wow  Blues ( My Mama  दावत  Me  जैसे  a Dog  )   ''  ,  a  song composed in the 1920s by Cliff  dost  &  nat   ओसबोर्न
लापरवाही  ( Lat  .  negligentia , from  neglegere  , to  उपेक्षा   ,   वस्तुतः   ``  not to pick up something '' ) is a failure  to  exercise  the  care  कि   a   reasonably   दूरदर्शी   व्यक्ति  would exercise  in  like circumstances  .
The area of  अपकृत्य   विधि  known  as  negligence involves harm caused by carelessness  ,  not  जानबूझकर  harm  .
according  to  jay   M.   feinman  of the Rutgers University School of Law  ;
``  The core idea of negligence is  कि   लोगों  should  कसरत  reasonable care when  वे  act by taking account  of  the potential harm that they  might  foreseeably cause  नुक़सान  to  अन्य   लोगों  .  ''
`` those who go  personally   or   लाओ  property where they  जान  that they or  it  may  आइये  into collision with the  व्यक्तियों  or property of others  have   by  law a  ड्यूटी   डाल  upon them  to  use reasonable care and skill  to  avoid such a  टक्कर  . ''
Fletcher  v  Rylands (  [   1866  ] LR 1 Ex  265   )
Through  सिविल   वाद   ,  if an injured  व्यक्ति  proves that another person acted negligently to cause  उनके   चोट   ,  they can recover damages to  compensate   लिये  their harm  .
Proving  a  case for  लापरवाही  can  potentially   entitle  the injured plaintiff to compensation for harm  to  their body  ,  property ,  दिमागी  well-being  ,   वित्तीय  status ,  or   अंतरंग   संबंध   .
However , because  लापरवाही  cases  हैं  very  fact-specific  , this  सामान्य  definition does not fully explain the concept  of  when the law will require one  व्यक्ति   to   compensate  another for  नुकसान  caused by  आकस्मिक  injury .
Further ,  the   विधि  of negligence  at  common  विधि  is only  एक   पहलू  of the  विधि   of  liability .
Although resulting  क्षतिपूर्ति  must be proven in  अनुक्रम  to recover compensation  in  a negligence  कार्रवाई  , the  प्रकृति   और   extent  of those damages are not  the   प्राथमिक  focus  of   लापरवाही  cases .
a  melanocytic nevus ( also known  as  `` Nevocytic  nevus  ''  )  is a type of lesion that  contains   nevus  cells (  a   प्रकार   of   melanocyte  ) .
कुछ  sources equate  the  term  mole   साथ   ``  melanocytic nevus ''  .
Other sources reserve the  पद  ``  mole  ''  लिये  other  उद्देश्य   .
The majority  of  moles  appear   दौरान   the  first two  दशकों   of  a person’s  जीवन   ,  while about one in every 100 babies is born with moles .
Acquired  औज़ार  are a form  of  benign  फुलाव  , while  जन्मजात   औज़ार   ,  or  जन्मजात   nevi   ,  are considered  a  minor malformation or  hamartoma  and may  be   at  a  उच्चतर   रिस्क   लिये  melanoma .
A mole  can  be  either  subdermal ( under the skin  )  or  a   pigmented   विकास  on the  स्किन   ,   formed  mostly  of   a   प्रकार  of cell  ज्ञात  as a melanocyte .
The high  विशेषज्ञता   of   the  body’s pigmenting agent ,  मेलेनिन   ,   is  responsible for their  अंधेरा   रंग   .
Moles are  a   सदस्य  of  the   परिवार  of skin  lesions  known  as   nevi   .
the  comprehensive  metabolic  panel ,  or  chemical screen , (  cmp   ;  CPT code  80053   )   is   a  panel of 14 blood tests  जिससे  serves  as  an  आरंभिक  broad  चिकित्सा   स्क्रीनिंग  tool .
the  CMP provides a  अशिष्ट  check  of  kidney  फलन  ,  जिगर  function  ,   और   electrolyte  and  द्रव   संतुलन   ,  but  it  is far from perfect .
Abnormal values from  a  CBC  may  be  a   परिणाम   of  false positives and  यूँ  the CBC may need to be repeated  लिये  a patient (  or  replaced with  a  more  विशिष्ट  test  )   .
the   cmp  is  an  expanded version of the basic  metabolic   फलक  ( BMP  )  , which does not include  जिगर  tests .
A CMP (  or  BMP  )  can be ordered  as  part of  a  routine physical examination , or may  be  used to monitor a  रोगी   साथ   a   दीर्घकालिक  disease , such as  मधुमेह  mellitus  or   hypertension  .
Previous names for  the  panel of tests have been Chem 12 , Chemistry  फलक  ,  रसायन  screen  ,   sma   12   ,   sma   20  and SMAC  (   sequential   अनेक  Analysis  -  Computer  )   .
The  परीक्षण   हैं   performed  on  मशीने  based on the  autoanalyzer  invented  in   1957  .
Natural gas extraction by  देशों  in cubic  मीटर  per year  .
प्राकृतिक   गैस  is  a   naturally  occurring  हाइड्रोकार्बन  gas  मिश्रण  consisting primarily  of  methane  ,   लकिन   commonly   सहित   varying   amounts  of other hydrocarbons , carbon dioxide , nitrogen , and  हाइड्रोजन   sulfide  .
Natural  गैस  is an energy  सोर्स  often  प्रयुक्त   लिये  heating , cooking  ,  and electricity generation .
It is  भी   प्रयुक्त  as  ईंधन  for vehicles  और   as  a chemical feedstock  in  the  manufacture  of plastics  और  other commercially  महत्वपूर्ण  organic  रसायन  .
Natural gas  is  found in  गहन   भूमिगत   प्राकृतिक   चट्टान   formations  or  संबद्ध  with other hydrocarbon  टंकी  in coal beds and as methane clathrates .
पेट्रोलियम  is also another resource found  in   निकटता  to and  साथ   प्राकृतिक  gas .
Most natural gas  थी   निर्मित  over time  by  two mechanisms  :   biogenic  and thermogenic .
biogenic   गैस  is created by methanogenic organisms in marshes , bogs ,  landfills   ,  and shallow sediments .
Deeper  in  the  धरती  ,  at  greater temperature and pressure  ,   thermogenic  gas is created  इससे  buried organic material .
पहले   प्राकृतिक  gas  can  be  प्रयुक्त  as  a  fuel  ,  it  जरूर  undergo processing  to   हटाएँ  impurities , including water  ,   to   मिलें  the  विशेषताएँ  of marketable  प्राकृतिक  gas .
the  by-products  of  processing include ethane  ,   प्रोपेन  , butanes , pentanes , and higher molecular  वज़न   hydrocarbons  ,  हाइड्रोजन  sulfide (  जिससे  may be converted into  pure   गंधक  ) , carbon dioxide  ,  water vapor ,  और  sometimes helium and nitrogen  .
Natural  गैस   is  often informally  referred  to  बस   as   गैस   ,  especially  जब   compared   to  other energy sources such as oil  or  coal  .
इस   पेज   is   परिचय   the  Imagination  मूवर्स  band .
For  सूचना  about the TV show  अभिनीत  the  बैंड   ,   देखिए  Imagination  मूवर्स   (  TV  श्रेणी  ) .
Imagination Movers  is   a   बैंड   formed  in  नई   ऑरलियन्स   ,  Louisiana ,  in  2003 .
the  lineup includes  समृद्ध  Collins  ,  Scott Durbin ,  डेव   poche  ,  और   स्कॉट  ``  smitty   ''   स्मिथ  .
सदस्यों   of  the  समूह   यहूद   longtime   मित्रों  and neighbors  .
The group  प्रारंभ  as a  television/music   अवधारणा  which was pitched  to   लोकल  PBS  affiliates  in  नई  Orleans .
wlae-tv  was the  पहला  to take an interest in the group  और   बाद  introduced them to Beth  कोर्टनी  ,  the  President & Chief Executive Officer  at   louisiana  Public  प्रसारण   .
Soon after , LPB began  airing  one-minute  वीडियो  produced  by  the Imagination  मूवर्स  themselves .
The Movers built a sizable  क्षेत्रीय  following by setting  शैक्षणिक  songs for kids  to   melodies   और   लय  that  वयस्कों  appreciate as well .
They  बेची  more  than  100,000  नक़ल   of  their  self-produced   cds  and DVDs .
Their three indie CDs  :  ``  शुभ  Ideas  ,   ''   ``  Calling All  मूवर्स  ,  ''  and `` Eight Feet '' along with  उनके  grass  जड़ें  DVD  ``  Stir It Up '' have ,  संयुक्त   ,  won fourteen national awards  ,  from such groups as  the  National Association of  परवरिश   publications   (   nappa   )   और   अभिभावक  '  चुनाव  .
In early 2005  ,   डिज़्नी  took  सूचना  ,  और   initiated   negotiations  to add  the  Movers to the company 's roster  .
ये  were interrupted in August when the flood  सुरक्षा  designed and  निर्मित  by  the   फौज   corps   of   इंजीनियर्स   to  protect New Orleans  विफल  .
the  resulting  floodwater  claimed  the  band  's  office  ,  as well  as  the homes  of  Collins  ,   durbin   और  Poche –  लकिन  the  सौदे  was  हस्ताक्षरित  in  the   वसन्त  of 2006  .
in  2008  ,  Walt Disney  रिकॉर्ड  introduced  the  Imagination  मूवर्स   '  music to the nation with the release of  the  Movers ' first  nationally-released   cd   ,   ``  Juice Box Heroes . ''
In  सितंबर  2008 , a 30-minute show  featuring  the  समूह   began   airing  on the Disney Channel  's   प्रीस्कूल  programming  ब्लाक  known as  playhouse   डिज़्नी  , and  फिलहाल   airs  on Playhouse Disney 's  बदलना  , Disney Junior .
The  मूवर्स   लिखें  and  perform   सब  the  गीतों  on their show  .
moreover  ,  the  Imagination Movers have received critical  kudos  for their  सजीव  concert performances  .
in  October 2009  ,   the  Imagination  मूवर्स   प्रारंभ   the  `` Live from  the   विचार  Warehouse Concert Tour  2009   ''  .
traveling  from  mid-october   to  mid-December 2009  उनके   सजीव   प्रदर्शन  include lots of their  पसंदीदा  songs and dancing  ,   as  well  as   वीडियो   दिखावे   of  Warehouse Mouse .
Beginning in early-February  2011   और  wrapping  up  in  लेट  May  2011  , the  कल्पना  Movers presented their ``  in  a Big  गोदाम  Concert Tour , '' playing  अधिक  than  100  shows  in  50+  शहरों  across North America .
इससे  March to  अक्तूबर  2012  ,  the Imagination Movers toured North America  on  their  post-disney   ``  Rock-O-Matic  ''  tour .
The show  कायम  several elements of the  असली   tv  concept  ,  such  as  an on-stage ``  विचार   आपात  ''  और  several  सेट  from their  पुरानी   कैटलॉग  ; however ,  साथ   the  departure of Wendy  calio  back to her native  हवाई  , the character `` Nina  ''  , along with her musical numbers , is  नहीं  present .
the   दौरे  promotes  the   कल्पना  Movers  '  new  album/dvd  release , `` Rock-O-Matic  ''  ,  जिससे  features  सब  new music  इससे  the band  .
The album itself is  उत्पादित   independently   of   डिज़्नी   और  has a  notably   अधिक  mature  ,  contemporary rock-and-roll sound  ,  though  स्टिल  very appropriate for  children   .
Several  प्रदर्शन  dates were moved  to  later in  2012   to  benefit from the increased exposure of  the   कल्पना  Movers TV show now playing daily on Disney Junior .
the   platypus   (  Ornithorhynchus anatinus  )  is  a  semiaquatic mammal endemic  to  eastern  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , including  तस्मानिया  .
Together with  the   चार  species of echidna ,  it   is  one of the  पाँच   extant   प्रजाति   of   monotremes  , the only  स्तनधारियों  that  lay  eggs  बजाय   of   giving  birth .
it   is   the   एकमात्र  living representative  of  its  परिवार  ( Ornithorhynchidae )  और  genus  (   ornithorhynchus  )  ,  though a  क्रमांक  of related  प्रजाति  have been  मिला   in  the fossil record .
the  unusual  रूप  of this  egg-laying   ,  duck -billed ,  बीवर  -tailed  ,   otter  -footed  स्तनधारी  baffled European  naturalists   जब  they  पहला  encountered it ,  साथ   कुछ   considering  it an elaborate  धोखाधड़ी  .
it  is one of  the  few  विषैला  mammals , the  पुरूष  platypus  having  a spur  on  the hind foot that delivers  a   venom   सक्षम  of  causing   कठोर  pain to humans .
the  unique features  of   the  platypus make it an important  विषय   in  the  पढ़ाई   of  evolutionary  जीवविज्ञान  and a recognisable  और   iconic   प्रतीक   of   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  ; it has  appeared  as a mascot  at   नेशनल   कार्यक्रम  and is featured on the reverse  of  its  20-cent   सिक्का   .
The platypus is  the   एनिमल  emblem  of  the  राज्य  of New  दक्षिण   वेल्स   .
जबतक   the   जल्दी  20th  सदी   ,   it  was hunted for its fur , but it is now  सुरक्षित  throughout  इसके  range .
Although captive breeding  programmes  have  था   तभी  limited success and  the   platypus  is vulnerable  to  the effects  of  pollution , it  is  not  अंतर्गत   कोई  immediate threat .
The Chupacabra  or  Chupacabras  (  , from  chupar  `` to  चूस  '' and cabra  ``   बकरी   ''  ,  वस्तुतः  ``  बकरी   चूषक   ''  ) is a  legendary  cryptid rumored to inhabit  भाग   of  the Americas .
It is associated more recently  साथ  sightings  of   an  allegedly unknown animal  in   प्यूर्टो   रीको  (  जहाँ   ये   sightings   यहूद  first reported )  ,  Mexico  ,  and  the   संयुक्त  States , especially in  the   latter  's Latin American communities  .
the  name comes from the animal 's reported habit  of   attacking  and  पीने   the   रक्त  of livestock , especially goats  .
Physical descriptions of  the  creature vary  .
Eyewitness  sightings   have   महरूम   claimed  as  जल्दी  as 1995 in Puerto Rico ,  और  have  चूंकि   महरूम  reported as  दूर  north  as  Maine  ,  and as far south as Chile , and  भी  being spotted  बाहर  the Americas in  देशों  like  रूस  and The Philippines .
It is  माना  a heavy creature  ,   the  size  of  a  छोटी   भालू   ,  with a row of  कांटे   reaching   इससे  the  गर्दन   to   the   आधार  of  the   टेल  .
Sighting reports of  the   chupacabra  have  महरूम   disregarded  as uncorroborated  or   lacking  evidence ,  जबकि   सबसे  reports in northern Mexico and the  दक्षिणी  United States have been  सत्यापित   as   canids  afflicted by mange  .
biologists   और  wildlife management  officials  view the chupacabra  as  a contemporary legend  .
The North  अमरीकी   फ़्री   व्यापार  Agreement (  nafta  )  is  an  अनुबंध   हस्ताक्षरित  by Canada ,  मैक्सिको   ,  and  the   संयुक्त  States  ,  creating a trilateral  व्यापार   bloc   in  North America  .
The agreement came into force on January  1   ,   1994  .
It superseded the Canada–United States Free Trade  अनुबंध  between  the   u.S.   ,  Canada ,  और  Mexico
NAFTA  रै   दो  supplements :  the   उत्तर  American Agreement on  पर्यावरणीय   सहयोग   (   naaec  ) and  the  North American Agreement  on  Labor  सहयोग  ( NAALC ) .
थर्मल  comfort is the condition of  दिमाग  that expresses satisfaction with the thermal environment  और  is assessed by  subjective  evaluation  (   ansi  / ASHRAE Standard 55  )  .
maintaining   इस   मानक   of   थर्मल   सुकून  for occupants  of   इमारतें   or  other  enclosures   is  one  of   the   महत्वपूर्ण  goals of  hvac  ( heating  ,   वेंटिलेशन  ,  और   एयर  conditioning  )   डिज़ाइन   इंजीनियर्स  .
The  पूर्वानुमानित  Mean Vote ( PMV )  मॉडल  stands  among  the  सबसे  recognized thermal comfort models .
It  थी  developed using principles  of  heat  संतुलन  and  प्रायोगिक  data  एकत्रित  in  a  controlled climate  कक्ष  under  स्थिर   राज्य  conditions  .
क्युकी  the PMV model was derived from data collected in  a   नियंत्रित  climate , it  is   नहीं   उपयुक्त  for applications  in  naturally ventilated  स्पेसेस  which often have high  स्तर   of  air movement .
इस  shortcoming  प्रेरित  the  विकास   of  a family  of   अनुभवजन्य   सांख्यिकीय   मॉडल   of   थर्मल  comfort  in  naturally ventilated spaces known  as  adaptive models  .
Adaptive models of  थर्मल  comfort consider  occupants   as   dynamically  interacting with  उनके   पर्यावरण   ,   और  controlling their thermal comfort by  अर्थात्  of clothing or window-opening and closing  .
This is  in  contrast to thermal  सुकून  in  sealed  buildings , in which  occupants  experience the environment  passively  .
Thermal comfort  is   प्रभावित  by  ऊष्मा  conduction ,  संवहन  , radiation  ,   और  evaporative  ऊष्मा   घाटा   .
Thermal comfort is maintained when the heat generated by human metabolism is  अनुमत  to  dissipate   ,   यूँ   maintaining  thermal equilibrium  साथ  the surroundings  .
it  has been long  पहचाना  that the  सनसनी   of  feeling hot  or  cold is  नहीं   बस   निर्भर   on  air temperature  अलोन  .
थर्मल   सुकून   calculations   according  to  ansi/ashrae  Standard 55 can be  freely  performed  साथ   the   cbe  Thermal  सुकून  Tool for ASHRAE-55  .
Durante  degli   एलीगियरी  ,  बस  referred to  as   दांते   (  , ;  ;  c.  1265–1321  ) ,  थी  a major Italian poet  of  the  मध्य  Ages  .
His Divine  कॉमेडी  ,  originally   पुकारा   '   और  later  पुकारा   '   by  Boccaccio  ,  is  widely   माना  the  महानतम  literary work composed in the Italian  भाषा  and a masterpiece  of  world literature .
In Italy he  is  known as ' ( `` the  परम्  Poet '' )  or   बस  '  .
he   ,   petrarch  and Boccaccio  हैं  also known  as  `` the  तीन   स्रोतों   ''  or  ``  the  तीन  crowns  ''   .
Dante  is   भी   पुकारा  the `` Father of  the   इतालवी  language '' .
Headquarters  (  Kobe ,  जापानी   )
(  )   is   a  tire and rubber company based in Japan  .
it  is part  of   the   sumitomo  Group  .
The  कम्पनी  traces its origins  to  1909 , when  the  Sumitomo Group made  an  investment  in  Dunlop Japan ,  the   newly  formed Japanese  subsidiary   of  the British  कम्पनी  Dunlop Rubber .
Over  the  years Sumitomo  और   dunlop  developed a close business relationship  ,  and  in   1963  the  sumitomo   समूह  acquired control of Dunlop  जापानी  and renamed  it  Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd .
in  1985 ,  जब   dunlop  Rubber was taken over by BTR plc , the company  acquired  the automobile  टायर  assets  of   dunlop  , including the  सही   to   उपयोग  the Dunlop brand on automobile tires  .
The acquisition  किया  not include the  us  and  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  businesses ,  जिससे  were separately owned  ,  but  in   1986  Sumitomo also acquired the  dunlop   टायर   निगम   of   the  US from  इसके  management  .
in   1997  , Sumitomo  formed   a  joint venture  साथ  Goodyear Tire and  रबर  Company , by which  goodyear   और   sumitomo  agreed  to   manufacture  tires for each other  's  markets , including  dunlop   ब्रांडेड  tires  .
As part of  the  agreement , Goodyear  acquired   75   %  interests in Dunlop Tyres ,  the   uk  company which Sumitomo  था   formed  , and  in   dunlop   टायर   निगम   .
Goodyear and Sumitomo also  बना  investments  in   प्रत्येक  other .
आज   ,   the   कम्पनी  makes  a   चौड़ी  range of rubber  आधारित  products , including automobile  टायर   ,  golf balls and tennis balls  .
microsoft  Visual  स्टुडियो   एक्स्प्रेस   is  a  नियत   of   फ्रीवेयर   एकीकृत   विकास  environments  (   आईडीई   )  developed  by   microsoft  that  हैं  lightweight  संस्करण   of   the   microsoft  Visual Studio  उत्पाद   लकीर  .
Express  संस्करण   यहूद  conceived  शुरूआत   साथ   विज़ुअल  Studio  2005  .
The  विचार  of Express editions is to provide streamlined , easy-to-use  और  easy-to-learn IDEs  लिये  users other than  पेशेवर  software developers , such as  hobbyists   और  students .
the  Alps are  एक   of  the  ग्रेट  mountain range systems  of  Europe stretching approximately  आरपार  eight Alpine countries from  ऑस्ट्रिया  and Slovenia in  the   ईस्ट  ,  स्विट्ज़रलैंड   ,   liechtenstein  ,  जर्मनी  ,  फ़्रांस  to the west  और  Italy and Monaco to the  दक्षिण  .
The mountains were  formed  over hundreds  of   लाखो  of years as  the   अफ़्रीकी  and  यूरेशियाई  tectonic plates collided .
Extreme shortening  caused   by   the  event resulted  in   समुद्री  sedimentary rocks  उठती  by  thrusting  and  फोल्डिंग  into  ऊँची  mountain peaks such  as  Mont  blanc   और  the  matterhorn  .
Mont Blanc spans  the   french–italian  border  ,   और   at  is the highest  पहाड़  in  the  Alps .
The Alpine  प्रदेश   क्षेत्रफल   contains  many  चोटियों  higher than  ,   ज्ञात   as  the `` four-thousanders `` .
the  altitude and  आकार   of   the   दायरा   affects  the climate  in   यूरोपीय  ; in the mountains precipitation levels vary  greatly  and  climatic   शर्तें  consist of  पृथक  zones  .
Wildlife such as ibex live in  the  higher  चोटियों   to  elevations of  ,  and  पौधे   ऐसे  as Edelweiss grow  in   रॉकी   क्षेत्रों   in  lower  elevations  as  खूब  as  in   उच्चतर  elevations .
Evidence of human  habitation  in the  ऐल्प्स  goes  वापस   to   the  Paleolithic  era   .
A mummified man  ,  determined to be 5,000 years old  ,   थी   खोजा  on a  हिमानी   at   the   austrian–italian  border in 1991 .
By the 6th century BC , the  सेल्टिक  La  tène   संस्कृति   थी  well established .
hannibal  may have crossed the  ऐल्प्स  with a  झुंड   of  elephants  ,  and the Romans had  settlements  in  the   प्रदेश  .
In 1800 Napoleon  crossed   एक  of  the   पहाड़   गुजरता   साथ   an   फौज  of  40,000  .
The 18th and  19th  centuries saw an  influx   of  naturalists  ,  writers  ,   और   कलाकारों  , in  particular  the Romantics , followed  by   the  golden age of alpinism  as   mountaineers  began to ascend the peaks .
In World War  ii  the  तीसरा   reich  invaded the  अल्पाइन   देशों  ,  साथ   the   एक्सेप्शन  of  स्विट्ज़रलैंड  and  liechtenstein  ; Adolf  हिटलर  kept a base of operation in  the  Bavarian Alps throughout the war  .
The Alpine region has a  दमदार   सांस्कृतिक   पहचान   .
The  परंपरागत   संस्कृति  of farming , cheesemaking , and woodworking still  exists   in  Alpine villages  ,  although the tourist  उद्योग   began   to  grow early in  the  20th  सदी   और   विस्तारित  greatly  बाद  World War  ii  to become the dominant  उद्योग  by the end of the century  .
The Winter Olympic Games  have   महरूम  hosted in the  स्विस  , French , Italian ,  आस्ट्रिया   और  German Alps  .
At  उपस्थित   the  region is home to  14  million  लोगों   और  has 120  लाख  annual visitors .
लोइस  Patrice Griffin ( née Pewterschmidt ) is  a  character from the animated television series Family Guy  .
She  is   voiced   by  writer  एलेक्स  Borstein and first appeared on  टेलीविज़न  , along  साथ  the  बाकी   of   the   परिवार  in  the   15-minute  short on December 20  ,   1998  .
Lois was created and designed by series creator Seth  macfarlane  .
MacFarlane  थी  asked  to   पिच  a  पायलट  to  the  Fox Broadcasting Company based  on  Larry  और   स्टीव  , a short made by  macfarlane  which featured a  middle-aged  character named Larry  और   an  intellectual dog , Steve .
बाद  the  पायलट  was  दिए  the green light  ,   the  Griffin family  appeared  on the  एपीसोड   ``   मौत  Has a  छाया   ``  .
Lois is the mother of  the   griffin  family  .
साथ  her husband  पीटर  , she has  था  three  children  :  मेग  ,  क्रिस  , and Stewie .
Lois is  प्रायः   portrayed  as  a  stereotypical television mother  ,  despite  उसके  admitting  to  being  a   ड्रग  user  ,  a recovering meth addict kleptomaniac .
Lois  रै  also had several affairs  ,  one of  जिससे   allegedly  resulted in the conception of Meg  .
She  रै  appeared  in  other media  relating   to  Family  guy—including   a   वीडियो  game ,  commercials  and books—and  प्रेरित  an entire  लकीर  of merchandise  .
लोइस   's  distinctive  नई  York accent  originated   इससे  a character in a stage show that  एलेक्स   borstein   था  performed in , which  थी   largely  inspired by  a  relative who grew up on  long   द्वीप   ,  New  यॉर्क   .
परिवार   हस्तांतरण   of   बास्क  language ( Basque as initial  भाषा  )
Percentage  of  students  पंजीकृत  in Basque language schools  (   2000–2005  )  .
Location of the Basque-language  प्रांतों  within Spain  और   फ़्रांस
बास्क  (  endonym  : , ) is the ancestral  भाषा   of  the Basque people  ,  who  inhabit   the   बास्क  Country  ,  a region spanning  an  area in northeastern Spain and  southwestern   फ़्रांस   .
It  is   बोला  by 27  %   of  Basques  in  all territories ( 714,136  आउट  of 2,648,998  )   .
Of these ,  663,035   सजीव  in  the  Spanish  भाग  of the Basque country  और  the remaining 51,100 live  in  the French  भाग  .
In academic discussions  of  the  वितरण   of  Basque  in   स्पेन  and  फ़्रांस  , it is customary  to   refer  to  तीन   प्राचीन  provinces  in  France  और   चार  Spanish provinces .
देशी   अध्यक्षों  are  concentrated  in a contiguous area  सहित   भाग  of the  स्पेनी   autonomous  communities of  the   बास्क  Country  और  Navarre  और   in  the  पश्चिमी  half of  the  French département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques .
The Basque  autonomous   जातियाँ   is   an  administrative  एंटिटी   भीतर  the binational  ethnographic  Basque Country incorporating the  परंपरागत  Spanish provinces  of   biscay  , Gipuzkoa ,  और   álava  ,  जिससे   retain  their  अस्तित्व  as  politico-administrative   विभाजन  .
ये  provinces  और  many areas  of  Navarre are heavily  आबादी  by  जातीय  Basques  ,  but  बास्क  was , at  तनिक  until  the  1990s , not spoken  as  a native language in most  of  Álava , western parts  of  Biscay and central and southern areas  of   नावारा   ,  either because  it  had been replaced by Spanish  साथ  the centuries , in  कुछ  areas  ,  or  क्युकी   it  had  never  been  बोला  there , in other  क्षेत्रों  .
In southwestern France , the  प्राचीन  Basque-populated  प्रांतों  were  labourd  ,  निम्नतर  Navarre , and  soule  .
वे  and other  regions   यहूद   संचित   into  a  सिंगल  département  in  1790 under the name Basses-Pyrénées ,  a  name which persisted  जबतक   1970  .
A standardized form  of  the Basque language  ,  called Euskara Batua  ,   थी   विकसित  by the  बास्क  Language Academy  in  the  लेट   1960s  .
Euskara Batua  थी  created  so  that  बास्क   भाषा   could  be used—and easily understood by  सब   बास्क  speakers—in  औपचारिक   परिस्थितियों  ( education  ,  mass media , literature  )   ,   और   इस  is its  प्रमुख  use today .
the   भूमिका   of   इस  standard Basque  भाषा   depends  on  the  linguistic educational  मॉडल   of   प्रत्येक  region  और   प्रत्येक  school  .
In most areas of the Spanish  बास्क   देश   ,  the  शैक्षणिक   मॉडल   d  , where  सब  subjects are  सिखाया  in  बास्क  , except `` Spanish  भाषा  and  साहित्य   ''  ( which is taught  in  Spanish  )   is  now the  predominant  model  .
In France  ,   the  Basque language school  seaska  and the association for a  दुभाषिया  ( Basque and French ) schooling  ikasbi  meet a wide  दायरा  of Basque language educational  needs  up to the  छठे  Form ,  जबकि   प्रायः  struggling  to  surmount  वित्तीय  and  प्रशासनिक   constraints  .
Apart from  इस  standardized version  ,   वहीँ  are  पाँच  main  बास्क  dialects  :  Bizkaian ,  gipuzkoan  , and Upper Navarrese in Spain , and Navarrese–Lapurdian  और  Zuberoan (  in  France )  .
Although they  लो   उनके  names  इससे  the mentioned historic  प्रांतों   ,  the  dialect   सीमाएँ   हैं   नहीं  congruent  साथ  province boundaries .
The President , Directors and Company  ,   of  the Bank of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  , commonly  ज्ञात  as the First Bank of the United  राज्य  , was  a   सेंट्रल   बैंको  ,  चार्टर्ड   लिये  a  पद  of twenty years  ,  by the  संयुक्त  States  कॉंग्रेस   on  February  25  , 1791 .
Establishment of  the  Bank was  शामिल   in  a three-part  विस्तार  of federal  फिस्कल   और   मौद्रिक   शक्ति  (  साथ  with a federal mint  और  excise  कर   )   championed   by  Alexander Hamilton , first  सचिव  of  the  Treasury  .
Hamilton believed a central  बैंको  was  जरुरी  to stabilize  और  improve  the   स्वदेश  's credit  ,   और   to   improve  handling of the  वित्तीय  business of the  संयुक्त  States  सरकारी  under the newly  enacted   संविधान  .
Officially proposed to the first session  of   the   पहला   कॉंग्रेस  in 1790  ,   हैमिल्टन  's  बैंको   faced  widespread resistance from opponents  of  increased federal  शक्ति   .
Secretary of  राज्य   थामस   जेफरसन  and  जेम्स  Madison led  the  opposition ,  जिससे  claimed  कि   the  bank was  असंवैधानिक   ,   और   कि  it  benefited  merchants and investors  at   the  expense of the majority  of   the   जनसांख्यिकी  .
The First Bank  भवन  is  अभी   a  National Historic Landmark  स्तिथ  in  फिलाडेल्फिया   ,  Pennsylvania  भीतर  Independence  नेशनल  Historical  पार्क  .
James  वेस्ले   marsters   (  born  अगस्त  20 , 1962 ) is an American actor  और  musician .
Marsters first came  to  the  ध्यान   of  the  सामान्य  public playing  the  popular character  स्पाइक   ,  a  platinum-blond  yobbish English  पिशाच   in   the   टेलीविज़न   श्रेणी   buffy   the  Vampire  slayer  and its spin-off  श्रेणी  , Angel  ,   इससे   1997  to  2004   .
Since then , he  रै   गए  on  to   खेल  other science  fiction  roles , such as  the   एलियन   supervillain   brainiac  on the  सुपरमैन  -inspired  श्रेणी  Smallville  ,  the  omnisexual   समय   मुसाफ़िर   कप्तान   जॉन  Hart  in  British science-fiction show Torchwood and terrorist  barnabas  Greeley in Sci fi 's Caprica .
Marsters  appeared   in  a supporting role in the 2007  फिल्म   p.s  .
i  Love You  और  as the main antagonist  ,  Piccolo  ,   in  the 2009  काल्पनिक  adventure film  dragonball  Evolution .
he  appeared  as   a   पुनरावर्ती  character in the first season of the revival of Hawaii  5-0   .
in  molecular biology ,  इंसान  chorionic  gonadotropin  (  hcg   )  is a hormone  उत्पादित  by  the   निषेचित  egg  बाद  conception .
बाद   दौरान  pregnancy  it  is made  by   the  developing  placenta  , and later by  the  placental component syncytiotrophoblast  .
Some cancerous tumors  उपज  this hormone ; therefore  ,  elevated levels  measured   जब  the patient is not pregnant  can   सीसे  to  a  cancer  निदान  .
However , it is  नहीं  known whether  इस  production  is  a  contributing  cause  or   an  effect of tumorigenesis  .
the   pituitary  analogue  of  hCG  ,   ज्ञात   as  luteinizing hormone ( LH )  ,   is   उत्पादित   in  the  pituitary  gland of males and  महिलाओं  of all ages  .
,  the  एफडीए  has  निषिद्ध   the   बिक्री  of `` homeopathic ''  और   over   the  counter hCG diet  उत्पाद  and  घोषित  them fraudulent and  illegal  .
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter , known by her stage  नाम  Beyoncé  (  ; born September  4  ,  1981   )  , is an American singer  ,  songwriter , dancer , and actress .
Born and raised in Houston  ,  Texas , she performed in singing and dancing  प्रतियोगिताओं  as  a  child  पहले  forming  in  1990  a  group with  केली   rowland  and LaTavia  roberson  that was  आखिरकार  named Destiny  's  Child .
Once signed to Columbia  रिकॉर्ड  ,  the   लड़कियों   subsequently  became one of the world  's  best-selling  लड़की  groups of  सब  time  .
the   समूह  was plagued by internal  विरोध   और  legal  turmoil   और   नॉलेस  suffered  इससे   अवसाद   कि   lasted   लिये   a  number of  सालो  .
During the group 's  अंतराल  ,  नॉलेस   released   उसके   डेब्यू  solo album Dangerously  in  Love ( 2003 ) , which earned her five Grammy Awards and  रै  sold  a  total of 4.9  लाख  copies in the US alone .
it   शाखित   बिलबोर्ड  number  एक  singles `` Crazy  in   प्रेम   ,  '' considered by  vh1   to   be   the   ``  Greatest Song Of the  00   's  ,  ''   और  `` Baby  लड़के  .  ''
Following  the   disbandment  of Destiny  's   चाइल्ड  in  2005  , Knowles 's  दूसरी  solo  एल्बम  B'Day ( 2006 ) contained  the  top  पाँच  singles  ``   déjà  Vu `` ,  ``  Irreplaceable `` ,  और   ``  Beautiful Liar  ``   .
Her performance  in  Dreamgirls ( 2006  )  earned her two Golden  ग्लोब   nominations  .
Knowles  '   कार्य   playing  Etta James in that  फिल्मी   प्रेरित   उसके  subsequent  एल्बम  I Am  ...
Sasha Fierce ( 2008  )  which  शाखित   हिट्स  `` If I Were a  लड़के  ``  ,   ``  Single Ladies ( Put a Ring  on  It ) ``  ,   ``  Halo `` ,  और  `` Sweet  सपनो  `` .
The  एल्बम   भी   helped  Knowles earn six  grammys  in  2010   ,   तोड़कर  the record  लिये   सबसे  Grammy Awards won  by   a  female  कलाकार   in   एक  night .
Her fourth album  4  (  2011   )   deviated  towards traditional R & B and became her fourth consecutive number one  एल्बम  on the  बिलबोर्ड  200  .
In January  2012   ,   नॉलेस  gave birth to daughter Blue Ivy  कार्टर  ,  उसके   पहला  child  साथ  husband Jay-Z .
Knowles has  बेची  over  13  million albums  in   the  US  और  118  लाख   रिकॉर्ड  worldwide ( as well as a further 50 million  रिकॉर्ड   साथ   नियति  's  चाइल्ड  ) ,  और  is  एक   of  the  best-selling  music  कलाकारों  of  सब   समय  .
the   रिकॉर्डिंग   उद्योग   संघ   of  America ( RIAA  )  recognized  नॉलेस  as the Top  certified  Artist of the  2000s   .
In  2009  , Billboard named her the Top Radio Songs Artist of  the  decade and ranked her  the   शीर्ष   मादा   कलाकार  and  the  fourth Artist of the Decade  .
Beyoncé  नॉलेस  is the most nominated  स्त्री   in  Grammy Award history  ,   receiving   17  awards  ;   अन्य   accolades  include 12 MTV Video  म्यूज़िक  Awards , 7 Billboard Awards including a  मिलेनियम   पुरस्कार  , and a  स्टार  on the Hollywood Walk of  कीर्ति   as   भाग   of  Destiny  's   चाइल्ड  .
`` Angry  सब   the  Time '' is  the   शीर्षक   of  a song written by  ब्रूस  Robison  और   पहला  recorded on  उसके  1998  एल्बम  Wrapped .
it  was later covered  by   टिम   mcgraw   साथ   अतिथि   vocalist   आस्था  Hill .
released   in  July  2001   ,   mcgraw   's   संस्करण  was the second  सिंगल  from  mcgraw  's  नियत   इस  Circus Down album  .
The  सोंग   पहुँचे  Number  एक   on  the Billboard  hot   देश  Singles  &   ट्रैक्स   (   अभी  Hot Country Songs ) charts .
डिअर  John  is  a  2010  American romantic  नाटक  -  युद्ध  film starring  अमांडा   seyfried   और   चेनिंग   टैटम  .
it  was released theatrically  in  North  अमेरिका  on  फ़रवरी   5  , 2010 .
the   फिल्मी  was directed by Lasse Hallström ,  और  it  is   an   अनुकूलन   of  Nicholas  स्पार्क्स  's  अनोखा  of the same name  .
it   फ़ॉलो   the  life of a soldier ( Channing  टैटम  ) after he  जलप्रपात  in love with a young woman (  अमांडा  Seyfried  )  .
वे  decide  to  exchange letters to  प्रत्येक   अन्य   बाद  he is deployed to  the  war  .
the  movie was  फिल्माया   in  2009  in  Charleston  ,  South Carolina .
Despite receiving negative reviews ,  the  film made  a   दमदार   बक्सा  office  प्रदर्शन   ,  knocking  बंद   अवतार   बाद  seven weekends  in  first  प्लेस  and grossing  a  total of  $   114,977,104  worldwide .
The  फिल्मी  was released on May  25  , 2010  on  DVD  और   blu-ray  .
These are lists of the  व्यस्ततम  airports  in  the United States  .
hartsfield–jackson  Atlanta  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   विमानक्षेत्र  is the  व्यस्ततम  single airport  in  the United States  .
However , all of  the   नई  York  नगर  metropolitan area  's   एयरपोर्ट  combine  to  create the largest airport system in the United  राज्य  ,  दूसरी  in the  संसार  in  शर्तें  of passenger  ट्रैफ़िक   ,  and  पहला  in the  संसार  in terms  of  total flight operations  .
Dora the Explorer  is   an  American  एनिमेटेड  television series created  by  Chris  gifford   ,   वैलेरी  Walsh  ,  and Eric Weiner  .
डोरा  the Explorer became  a  regular series  in   2000   .
The show is carried on the Nickelodeon cable television network  ,  including  the  associated  उपनाम   jr.  channel  .
It  aired  on CBS until September 2006 .
A  spanish-dubbed   संस्करण  first aired as part  of  a Nick en español block on  एनबीसी   सार्वभौमिक  -owned Telemundo through September  2006  ;  चूंकि  April 2008 ,  इस  version of the program has been carried  on  Univision  as  part of  the  Planeta U  ब्लाक   .
Santa Fe (  ;  ( Tewa : Ogha  po'oge   ,  )  )  is the  पूंजी   of   the   u.S.  state of  नई  Mexico .
It  is  the fourth-largest  नगर  in the state and is  the  seat  of   .
Santa Fe ( meaning “holy  faith”   in  Spanish )  था   a   जनसांख्यिकी  of  67,947  in  the  2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
It  is   the  principal  नगर   of  a  महानगर  Statistical Area which encompasses all  of  Santa Fe  काउंटी  and  is  part of the larger Albuquerque-Santa Fe-Las Vegas  संयुक्त   सांख्यिकीय   क्षेत्रफल   .
the  city’s  पूरा   नाम  when  संस्थापित  was La  विला  Real de  la  Santa  fé  de San Francisco de  asís   (  “The Royal Town  of   the  Holy Faith  of  St.  फ्रांसिस  of Assisi”  )  .
Pepsi ( stylized in  लोअरकेस   as  pepsi  ,   formerly  stylized  in   अपरकेस   as  PEPSI  )  is a carbonated soft drink  कि  is  उत्पादित  and manufactured  by  PepsiCo  .
Created  और  developed in 1893 and  introduced  as Brad 's Drink , it was renamed  as  Pepsi-Cola  on  August 28  ,   1898  ,  तब   to   पेप्सी  in  1961  .
1765 Broadside
The  बेटे  of  स्वतंत्रता  was  a   समूह   consisting  of American patriots that  originated   in   the  pre-independence North  अमरीकी   अंग्रेजों  colonies  .
the   समूह  was  formed   to  protect the  अधिकारों  of the  colonists  and  to   लो  to the streets  विरूद्ध  the taxes  by  the British government  .
They  हैं  best  ज्ञात   लिये   undertaking   the  Boston  चाय   पार्टी   in  1773  ,   जिससे   led   to   the  Intolerable  अधिनियमों   (  an intense crackdown  by   the   अंग्रेजों  government  )  , and a counter-mobilization by the Patriots  .
Osaka castle
is a city  in  the Kansai region of  जापानी  's  प्रमुख  island  of  Honshu , a designated city under the Local Autonomy  विधि  , the capital city of  ओसाका   प्रीफ़ेक्चर   और  also the largest part of the  keihanshin   metropolis   ,  which comprises three major cities  of  Japan ,  क्योटो  , Osaka  और  Kobe  .
स्तिथ   at  the  मुँह  of the  yodo   नदी  on Osaka Bay , Osaka is  जापानी  's third  largest  city by population after  टोकियो   (  special  wards  ) and  yokohama   .
Keihanshin is the  दूसरी  largest metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  in Japan by population and  एक   of  the largest metropolitan areas highly  क्रमित  in the world  ,   साथ  nearly  19  million people ,  और  by GDP  the   दूसरी  largest  क्षेत्रफल  in Japan and  the  seventh  largest  area  in   the  world .
Historically  the   वाणिज्यिक  center of Japan , Osaka  कृत्यों  as  एक  of the  कमांड   centers  for the  जापानी   अर्थव्यवस्था  .
the   अनुपात  between daytime  और  night time  जनसांख्यिकी   is  141 % ,  the  highest  in  Japan ,  highlighting  its status as an  आर्थिक   बीच  .
Its nighttime population is 2.6  लाख   ,   the   तीसरा  in the  देश   ,   लकिन   in  daytime the population  surges  to  3.7  million  ,  second only  बाद  Tokyo ( combining the special wards  of   टोकियो   ,  which is not  a   सिंगल  incorporated city ,  लिये  statistical purposes ; see the  टोकियो   आलेख   लिये  more  सूचना   on   the  definition  और  makeup  of  Tokyo )  .
ओसाका  used  to  be referred to  as   the  in  सामंती  Edo  काल   क्युकी   it  was the centre of trading for  राइस  , creating the  पहला   आधुनिक   futures   एक्सचेंज   मार्केट   in   the   संसार   .
the  Little Mermaid  is   a  1989 American  एनिमेटेड   musical  fantasy film produced  by  Walt  डिज़्नी   विशेषता   एनिमेशन   और   वितरित   by  Walt  डिज़्नी   तस्वीरें   .
Based on the Danish  परी  tale by  hans   ईसाई  Andersen , The Little Mermaid tells the story of a beautiful mermaid who dreams of  बनने  human .
Written , directed ,  और  produced by  रॉन  Clements  और  John  musker  , with music  by  Alan Menken  और  Howard Ashman  ,  the  फिल्मी  features the  आवाज़ें  Jodi Benson  ,  Christopher Daniel Barnes  ,   पैट  Carroll ,  सैमुएल  E. Wright ,  जेसन   मारिन  , Kenneth  मंगल  , Buddy  hacket   ,   और  Rene Auberjonois .
The 28th  फिल्मी  in  the   वॉल्ट   डिज़्नी  Animated Classics series  ,  The Little  मरमेड  was  released   to   थिएटर  on November 14  ,   1989  to largely  धनात्मक  reviews , garnering $ 84  लाख  at  the   बक्सा  office during  इसके   आरंभिक  release  ,  and  $  211 million in  कुल  lifetime gross  .
बाद  the success of the  1988  Disney  /  Amblin film Who  framed   रोजर  Rabbit , The Little Mermaid  is   दिए  credit  लिये   श्वास  life back into the  आर्ट   of   डिज़्नी  animated  विशेषता  films after a string of critical  or  commercial  असफलताओं   उत्पादित  by Disney  कि   दिनाँक   वापस   to   the  early  1970s  .
It  भी  marked  the   प्रारंभ  of the era  ज्ञात   as   the   डिज़्नी   पुनर्जागरण   .
A  स्टेज  adaptation of the  फिल्मी  with a  किताब  by Doug  राइट  and additional  गीतों  by Alan Menken  और  new  गीतों   ग्लेन  Slater opened in Denver in  जुलाई  2007 and began performances on Broadway January 10  ,  2008  .
alt=Close-up photo  of   a  metal  चमचा  filled with a viscous , clear purple fluid
Purple drank  is   a   कठबोली  term for  a   recreational  drug  लोकप्रिय  in the hip  हॉप   जातियाँ   in  the  दक्षिणी   संयुक्त  States , originating in Houston , Texas .
Its main  संघटक  is  नुस्खा  -strength cough  सिरप  containing codeine and promethazine  .
Cough syrup  is   typically   मिश्रित   साथ  ingredients such  as   sprite  soft drink or Mountain Dew and pieces of  प्रसन्न   rancher  candy .
the  purplish  वर्ण  of purple  पिया  comes from  dyes  in the cough syrup .
वहीँ   हैं  numerous  कठबोली  terms for purple drank  ,  including  sizzurp   ,  lean , syrup ,  पिया  , barre  ,  purple  जेली   ,  Texas tea  ,   और  Tsikuni  .
first/given  , middle ,  और  last/family/surname diagram  साथ  J. S. Bach as example  .
J.  S. Bach shared his given  नाम  with six  तात्कालिक   परिवार   सदस्यों   और  many  विस्तारित  family  सदस्यों  .
he  shared his family name with most  परिवार  members .
a  given name  ,   in  Western contexts often referred  to   as  a first name ,  is  a personal name that specifies  और   differentiates  between  सदस्यों   of  a group of  individuals   ,  especially in a  परिवार   ,  all of whose members usually share the same  परिवार   नाम   (   उपनाम  )  .
A  दिए  name  is  purposefully given  ,   प्रायः   by   a  child  's  parents  at  or  निकट  birth  ,   in   कंट्रास्ट  to an  inherited   एक   ऐसे   as  a family  नाम  .
a  given name  is   sometimes   legally  changed through a  नाम  change .
दिए   names  are often used  in  a  परिचित  and  दोस्ताना   manner  in  अनौपचारिक   परिस्थितियों   .
in  more  औपचारिक   परिस्थितियों  the  उपनाम  is  प्रयुक्त  instead  ,   जबतक   it  is necessary to distinguish between people with the  वही  surname  .
The idiom  ``   on  a  first-name   आधार  '' ( or ``  on   first-name   शर्तें   ''   )   alludes  to the  अपनेपन   of   संबोधित   another  by a given name .
the   पश्चिमी   स्टाइल   of   having   दोनो  a family  नाम   (  surname  )   और  a given  नाम  is far  इससे  universal .
In  अनेक  countries it is  आम  for ordinary people to  have  only one  नाम  ( a mononym  )   .
Hydrochloric acid is  a  clear  ,   colourless   समाधान  of hydrogen chloride  (  H  cl  )  in   जल   .
it  is  a  highly corrosive  ,  strong  खनिज  acid with many  औद्योगिक  uses .
हाइड्रोक्लोरिक  acid is found naturally in gastric acid .
Historically  पुकारा   muriatic  acid ,  और   आत्माओं  of salt  ,  hydrochloric  एसिड  was produced from  vitriol  (  sulfuric  acid  )  and  आम   नमक   .
it   पहला  appeared during the  पुनर्जागरण   ,   और  then it was  प्रयुक्त   by   chemists  such as  glauber  , Priestley  और  Davy in  उनके  scientific  शोध   .
साथ   प्रमुख  production starting  in  the Industrial Revolution  ,   हाइड्रोक्लोरिक   एसिड   is   प्रयुक्त   in  the  रासायनिक   उद्योग  as a chemical reagent in the large-scale  उत्पादन   of  vinyl chloride  लिये  PVC plastic  ,  and  mdi  / TDI for polyurethane  .
it  has numerous smaller-scale applications  ,   सहित   household  cleaning , production of gelatin and other food  एडिटिव  , descaling , and leather processing .
About  20  million  टन  of hydrochloric acid  हैं  produced annually .
Wheat  (  Triticum  spp  . )  is   a   खाद्यान्न  grain  ,  originally from the Levant region of the  निकट   ईस्ट  and Ethiopian Highlands , but  अभी  cultivated worldwide .
In  2010  ,  संसार  production of  गेहूं   थी  651  लाख  tons , making  it  the third most-produced cereal  बाद  maize  (   844  million tons ) and rice ( 672 million tons  )   .
गेहूं   थी  the  दूसरी   most-produced   खाद्यान्न  in 2009 ; world production  in  that year  थी   682   लाख  tons ,  बाद   मक्का  ( 817 million tons )  ,  and with  राइस   as  a close third (  679  million  टन  )  .
This grain is  grown   on  more land area than  कोई  other commercial  खाना   .
संसार   व्यापार  in wheat is  वृहद  than for all  अन्य   फसलों  combined .
globally   ,   गेहूं   is   the   अग्रणी  source of  सब्ज़ी  protein  in  human  खाना   ,  having  a   उच्चतर  protein content than soybeans  or  the other  प्रमुख   cereals  ,  मक्का   (  corn ) or  राइस   .
In terms  of  total production  tonnages  used  लिये  food , it is  फिलहाल   दूसरी   to  rice as the main human  खाना   क्रॉप   और   ahead  of maize ,  बाद  allowing for maize 's  अधिक  extensive use in animal feeds .
गेहूं   थी  a  कुंजी   फ़ैक्टर   enabling   the   emergence   of   city-based  societies at the  प्रारंभ  of civilization because  it  was  एक   of  the first crops  कि  could be  easily  cultivated  on  a  विशाल   स्केल  ,  और   था  the additional advantage  of   yielding   a  harvest that provides long-term  भंडार   of  food .
गेहूं   contributed   to  the emergence of city-states  in   the   fertile   crescent   ,  including the  babylonian   और   assyrian  empires .
Wheat grain is  a   स्टेपल  food used  to  make flour for  leavened  , flat  और  steamed  breads   ,  biscuits , cookies  ,  cakes  ,   नाश्ता  cereal ,  पास्ता  , noodles  ,  couscous  और  for  fermentation   to   मेक  beer , other  alcoholic  beverages  ,   or   biofuel  .
गेहूं  is planted to a  सीमित  extent as a  forage  crop for  पशुधन   ,  and  इसके  straw can  be   प्रयुक्त  as  a   निर्माण  material  लिये   roofing  thatch  .
The whole grain can  be   milled  to leave  बस  the  भ्रूणपोष   लिये  white flour .
the   by-products  of this  हैं   चोकर  and germ  .
The whole grain is a  concentrated  source of vitamins  ,   खनिज  , and protein  ,  while the refined  अनाज  is mostly  मंड   .
Printing
To  प्रकाशित   is  to make content available to the general  पब्लिक   .
जबकि  specific  उपयोग  of the  पद  may vary among countries  ,  it is  प्रायः  applied to  टेक्स्ट  , images  ,  or other audio-visual  सामग्री   on  any traditional  मीडियम   ,   सहित  paper ( newspapers ,  मैगज़ीन   ,   कैटलॉग   ,  etc . ) .
The word  प्रकाशन  means the  अधिनियम  of publishing ,  और   भी   refers   to  any printed copies .
मेलिसा  & Joey is an ABC Family original television series  अभिनीत  Melissa  जोन   हार्ट   और  Joey  लॉरेंस  .
it  first aired on  एबीसी  Family on  अगस्त  17 , 2010 .
The series  फ़ॉलो  local  राजनेता   mel   बुर्के  (  मेलिसा   जोन  Hart  )  and Joe Longo ( Joey Lawrence  )   ,  whom Mel hires  to   dekh   बाद   उसके   भांजी   और   भतीजे  after a Ponzi  योजना  leaves him  broke  .
the   श्रेणी  was renewed by  एबीसी  Family for  a  second  ऋतु   of  fifteen episodes , which  began  airing on  may  30  ,   2012  and  ended  on August 29  ,   2012   .
मेलिसा  & Joey  बाँधने   as  cable TV  's   #   1  telecast  at  8  o'clock  across  निशाना  audiences  18–34   ,  18–49  और  12–34  जनसांख्यिकी  .
on  August  17  , 2012  ,   एबीसी   परिवार   नवीनीकृत  Melissa  &   जॉय   लिये  a third  ऋतु  , set  to  premiere in spring 2013 .
The Dharma wheel  ,   प्रायः  used to represent the Noble Eightfold Path
the   प्रतिष्ठित   eightfold   पाथ   (  , ) is one of the principal teachings  of   the  Buddha  ,   जो  described  it   as  the way  अग्रणी   to   the  cessation of suffering (  dukkha   )   और   the   उपलब्धि  of  self-awakening  .
It is used to develop insight into the true nature  of  phenomena (  or  reality )  और  to  eradicate   लोभ  , hatred , and  भ्रांति   .
the  Noble  eightfold  Path  is  the  चौथी  of the Buddha 's Four  प्रतिष्ठित  Truths ; the first element  of  the Noble Eightfold  पाथ  is , in turn  ,  an understanding of the Four Noble  सच्चाई   .
It  is   भी  known as the  मध्य  Path or Middle  रास्ता   .
सब   आठ  elements  of  the  पाथ  begin  साथ  the word  ``  right ''  ,  which  translates  the word  samyañc   (  in Sanskrit  )  or sammā  (  in  pāli  ) .
These denote  पूर्णता  , togetherness , and coherence ,  और  can  भी   सुझाएँ  the  होश   of  `` perfect  ''  or `` ideal  ''  .
'samma  ' is also  अनूदित  as `` wholesome '' , `` wise ''  और   ``  skillful '' .
In  बौद्ध  symbolism  ,   the  Noble  eightfold   पाथ  is often represented  by  means of the  धर्मं  wheel (  dharmachakra   )   ,  whose eight  तीलियां  represent  the  eight elements  of   the   पाथ  .
the  Grammy Award for  सोंग  of the Year is an  सम्मान  presented at  the  Grammy Awards  ,  a  रस्म  that was established in 1958 and originally  पुकारा  the  gramophone   पुरस्कार   .
Awards  in   अनेक   श्रेणी  are distributed  annually  by the  नेशनल  Academy of  रिकॉर्डिंग   कला   और  Sciences of the  संयुक्त   राज्य   to   ``   सम्मान  artistic achievement , technical proficiency  और   overall  excellence in  the  recording industry ,  बगैर   लिहाज़  to  एल्बम  sales  or  chart position . ''
अर्थशास्त्र  is the social science  कि   analyzes  the production  ,  distribution ,  और  consumption  of  goods  और  services  .
The term economics  आता  from  the  Ancient Greek (  '   ,  ``  प्रबन्धन  of a  household   ,  administration  ''   )   इससे   (   '  , ``  हाउस  '' ) + ( ' ,  ``  custom '' or  ``  law '' )  ,  hence  ``  rules  of   the  house  (  hold )  ''  .
Political economy was the  पहले   नाम  for the  विषय   ,  but economists in the late  19th   सदी   सुझाया   ``   अर्थशास्त्र   ''  as  a  shorter term for `` economic  विज्ञान   ''   कि  also avoided  a  narrow  political-interest  connotation and as  समान   in   रूप  to ``  गणित  `` , ``  आचार  ''  ,   और   so  forth .
a   फ़ोकस  of the subject is how  आर्थिक   एजेंटों   व्यवहार   or  interact  और  how economies  कार्य   .
सतत  with this ,  a  primary  textbook  distinction is between microeconomics and macroeconomics .
Microeconomics examines the  बर्ताव   of   मौलिक   तत्व  in the economy  ,   सहित  individual agents  (  such as  households   और   firms   or  as  खरीदार   और  sellers  )   और  markets , and  उनके  interactions  .
Macroeconomics  analyzes   the   संपूर्ण   अर्थव्यवस्था  and  मुद्दे   affecting   it   ,   सहित   बेरोजगारी  , inflation  ,  economic  विकास  ,  और  monetary  और   फिस्कल   नीति  .
अन्य   व्यापक   भेद   शामिल  those  between   धनात्मक  economics  (  describing  ``   कया   is   ''   )   और   normative  economics ( advocating ``  कया   ought   to   be  '' )  ;   between  economic theory  और   लागू  economics ; between  तर्कसंगत   और  behavioral economics ; and between mainstream economics  (  more ``  परंपरागत  '' and dealing with the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium nexus  ''   )  and heterodox  अर्थशास्त्र  (  अधिक   ``  radical '' and dealing with the  ``  institutions-history-social  ढांचा  nexus '' ) .
आर्थिक  analysis  may  be applied throughout society ,  as  in  कारोबार  ,  वित्त  ,  स्वास्थ्य  care  ,   और  government , but also  to   ऐसे   विविध   विषय  as crime , education ,  the  family , law , politics  ,   धर्म  , social  संस्थानों  ,  युद्ध   ,  and  विज्ञान   .
At the turn  of  the 21st  सदी   ,  the  expanding   डोमेन   of  economics in the social  sciences  has been described as economic imperialism  .
an  increasing number of economists  have  called  लिये  increased emphasis on environmental sustainability ; this  क्षेत्रफल  of research is known as Ecological economics .
This  is  a  सूची  of Schedule IV  दवाएँ  under the  नियंत्रित   substances   अधिनियम  for the United  राज्य  .
Required  निष्कर्षों   लिये   दवाएँ  to be  लगाई  in this  schedule:
The drug  or   अन्य  substance  रै  a  कम  potential for abuse relative to the  दवाएँ  or  अन्य  substances in schedule III .
the  drug or other substance has  a   फिलहाल  accepted medical use  in  treatment  in  the United  राज्य  .
Abuse  of   the  drug or other  पदार्थ   may   सीसे  to  सीमित   शारीरिक   dependence   or  psychological  dependence   सापेक्ष   to  the drugs  or  other substances in schedule III  .
the  complete list  of   अनुसूची   iv  drugs  हैं   as   फ़ॉलो   .
The Administrative  नियंत्रित  Substances Code  क्रमांक  for  प्रत्येक   ड्रग  is  शामिल  .
US county  household  median  आय  2009 .
Median US  household   आय   ,  2001-2011
Household  आय  is a  माप  commonly  प्रयुक्त  by the United  राज्य   सरकारी  and private institutions  .
Each household is  measured  by the income of every  निवासी   over  the age of  15   .
आय  includes wages  और   salaries   ,  unemployment  बीमे   ,  disability  भुगतान  ,  चाइल्ड   support  payments  प्राप्त  ,  नियमित   rental   रसीदें   ,  as  खूब  as  कोई  personal business , investment ,  or  other kinds of  आय   प्राप्त   routinely  .
While inflation-adjusted  (   ``   रियल  ''  )   household  income  था   महरूम  increasing  लगभग  every  साल   इससे  1945 to  1999  , it has  चूंकि  been  चपटा  and even decreased recently  .
U.S. median household  आय   गिरी   इससे   $   51,144   in  2010 to  $   50,502   in  2011 .
चरम   गरीबी  in the United States , meaning households living  on   कम  than $  2   प्रति   दिन   पहले   सरकारी   लाभ  ,  doubled  from 1996 to  1.5   लाख  households in 2011  ,  including 2.8 million children .
the  residents of the  household   do  not  have   to   be  related  to  the head of the household for their  आय   to   be   माना   भाग  of the household 's  आय  .
as   households   tend   to  share a similar economic context ,  the  use of household income  remains   among   the  most  widely   स्वीकृत   उपायों   of  income .
That the size of  a  household is not commonly taken  into  account  in  such  उपायों  may distort  कोई   विश्लेषण   of   fluctuations   भीतर   or  among  the   household  income categories  ,  and may  रेंडर  direct comparisons between quintiles difficult  or   भी  impossible  .
the  lapse rate is defined as the rate of  घटी  with height for an atmospheric variable .
The  परिवर्तनीय  involved is  तापमान   जबतक   निर्दिष्ट  otherwise .
the  terminology arises from the  शब्द  lapse  in  the sense of  a   घटी  or  मनाही   .
While  सबसे   प्रायः  applied  to   धरती  's atmosphere the  अवधारणा   can   be  extended to  कोई  gravitationally  समर्थित   बॉल   of   गैस  .
Blue  पहाड़  State is  an  American comedy  श्रेणी  that premiered on  स्पाइक  on January  11   ,  2010 .
the  series  निर्माता   शामिल   क्रिस  Romano  और  Eric Falconer ,  और  it  is  produced  by   lionsgate  Television .
the  series is  परिचय  a  fictional   विश्वविद्यालयों   ,  Blue  पहाड़   राज्य  ,  और  its  फ़ुटबॉल   टोली   ,  `` The Mountain Goats . ''
It portrays certain  पहलुओं  of  अमरीकी  university  जीवन  , including football , sex , binge  पीने  ,  दवाएँ  , wild partying  ,  and hazing .
in  February 2012  ,  it was reported that Blue  पहाड़  State would not  be  renewed  लिये   a  fourth  ऋतु  .
In  कूच  2013  ,  Ed  marinaro  stated  कि  he  is  working  on   a  Blue Mountain State film .
Apple  inc.  , formerly Apple  कंप्यूटर  ,  inc.   ,  is an American multinational corporation  headquartered  in Cupertino ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  that designs  ,  develops , and  बिकता  consumer electronics  ,  computer software and  निजी  computers .
इसके  best-known hardware  उत्पाद   हैं  the Mac  लकीर  of computers , the  ipod   म्यूज़िक  player ,  the  iPhone  स्मार्टफोन   ,  and the  ipad  tablet computer .
Its software  शामिल  the OS  x  and iOS operating systems  ,  the iTunes  मीडिया  browser  ,  the  safari  web  ब्राउजर   ,   और  the iLife and iWork creativity and production suites .
The  कम्पनी  was  संस्थापित   on  April 1 , 1976  ,   और  incorporated  as  Apple Computer ,  inc.   on  January 3  ,   1977  .
The word ``  कंप्यूटर   ''   थी   removed   इससे   इसके   नाम   on  January  9  , 2007 , reflecting its  shifted  focus towards consumer electronics after the introduction of the iPhone .
Apple is  the   संसार   's  second-largest information technology  कम्पनी  by  आय  after  samsung  Electronics ,  और   the   संसार  's third-largest  मोबाईल  phone  मेकर  after Samsung  और  Nokia .
Fortune magazine named Apple  the   सबसे  admired company in the  संयुक्त  States  in  2008 , and  in  the world from  2008  to  2012   .
However , the  कम्पनी   रै  received  आलोचना   लिये   इसके  contractors ' labor practices  ,   और   लिये  Apple 's own  पर्यावरणीय   और   कारोबार  practices .
, Apple maintains 394 retail  स्टोर्स  in  चौदह  countries as well as the online Apple Store  और   itunes   स्टोर  .
it   is   the   second-largest  publicly traded corporation in the world by  मार्केट  capitalization ,  साथ  an  अनुमानित   मान  of  us   $   414   अरब  as of January 2013 .
,   the   कम्पनी   था  72,800  स्थाई   full-time  employees and 3,300 temporary  full-time  employees  विश्वव्यापी  .
Its worldwide annual  आय   in  2012 totalled $ 156 billion .
Section  8   आवास  in the South Bronx
खण्ड  8 of the Housing Act  of   1937   (  ) ,  प्रायः  simply known as Section 8 , as repeatedly amended , authorizes the  भुगतान  of rental  आवास  assistance  to  private landlords on behalf of approximately 3.1 million low-income households .
it  operates through several  कार्यक्रम   ,   the   largest   of  which , the Housing Choice  वाउचर   कार्यक्रम  ,  pays  a  विशाल   portion  of the rents  और  utilities of about  2.1   लाख  households .
The  us   विभाग   of  Housing and Urban Development manages  the  Section  8   कार्यक्रम   .
The Housing Choice  वाउचर   कार्यक्रम  provides `` tenant-based ''  rental  assistance  ,  so a tenant can  मूव  from one  ईकाई  of  at   तनिक   न्यूनतम   आवास   विशेषता   to  another .
It also  allows  individuals to  लागू   उनके  monthly voucher towards the purchase  of   a   घर  , with  over   $   17  billion going towards such purchases each  साल  (  इससे  ncsha.org analysis )  .
The maximum allowed  वाउचर  is $ 2200 a month .
Section 8 also  authorizes   a   किस्में  of `` project-based  ''  rental  सहायता  programs  ,   अंतर्गत  which the  मालिक   reserves   कुछ  or  सब   of  the units  in  a building for  low-income  tenants ,  in   वापसी   लिये  a  संघीय  government guarantee to make  up  the  अंतर   between  the tenant 's contribution  और  the rent  लिये  1 cent in the  मालिक  's contract with the government  .
A tenant  जो   पत्ते  a  subsidized   प्रोजेक्ट   होगा   खोना  access to the project-based  रियायत  .
The United  राज्य  Department of  आवास  and Urban Development  और  United  राज्य   विभाग   of   दिग्गजों   अफेयर्स  have a special Section 8  कार्यक्रम   पुकारा   vash   (   दिग्गजों  Affairs  supportive  Housing ) , or HUD-VASH  ,  which gives  आउट  a certain number of Section 8 vouchers to  योग्य  homeless and otherwise vulnerable US armed forces  दिग्गजों  .
Restaurants  categorized  by type  और  information  परिचय  these different  प्रकार  .
u.S.  Federal  आरक्षित   टीप   in   the   mid-1990s
The  इतिहास  of  the  United  राज्य   डालर  covers more  than   200  years .
