A partly submerged glacier गुफा on perito मोरेनो हिमानी.
The ice facade is लगभग 60 m high
Ice formations in the titlis हिमानी गुफा
A glacier गुफा is a गुफा formed भीतर the बर्फ of a glacier.
Glacier caves are often called ice caves, but इस पद is properly प्रयुक्त to describe bedrock गुफाएं that contain year-round ice.
In physics, circular motion is a गति of an ऑब्जेक्ट साथ the परिधि of a वृत्त or rotation along a circular path.
It can be वर्दी, साथ निरंतर कोणीय रेट of रोटेशन ( and constant speed ), or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation.
The rotation around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional देह involves गोलाकार गति of इसके भाग.
The equations of motion describe the गति of the बीच of mass of a body.
Examples of circular motion include : an artificial satellite orbiting the Earth at constant height, a stone which is tied to a rope and is being swung in circles, a car turning through a curve in a रेस track, an इलेक्ट्रॉन चलती लम्बवत to a वर्दी चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड, और a गियर turning inside a mechanism.
Since the ऑब्जेक्ट 's गति वेक्टर is constantly बदलना दिशा, the moving object is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal force in the direction of the center of rotation.
बगैर इस त्वरण, the ऑब्जेक्ट होता मूव in a straight line, according to Newton 's laws of motion.
Apollo Creed is a fictional अक्षर इससे the रॉकी films, initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World.
He was played by कार्ल weathers.
Creed had multiple nicknames, including The Master of Disaster, The King of स्टिंग, the नाचना विनाशक, the प्रिंस of पंच, the एक और तभी और the गिनती of Monte Fisto.
शहरी लेजेंड राज्य कि अपोलो पंथ 's नाम is a wordplay on the Apostles ' Creed, a statement of belief used in Christian churches.
All of Apollo 's चैंपियनशिप झगड़े यहूद अनुसूचित लिये the 15 round distance.
Championship fights did not convert इससे 15 rounds to 12 rounds जबतक 1987.
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited साथ popularizing the रेड, श्वेत, और ब्लू trunks ; पंथ थी the पहला man to पहनें उन्हें ( latterly worn by रॉकी बाल्बोआ in the 3rd and 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine '' Gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he wore red and white, as seen in Rocky II.
Balboa 's हस्ताक्षर रंगों यहूद ब्लैक और gold—colors he used in the latest movie.
In the United States, the title of federal judge usually means a judge नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य और पुष्टि by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution.
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States, whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter, acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate क्षेत्राधिकार over अलग regions of the संयुक्त राज्य, और 94 संयुक्त राज्य ज़िला न्यायालयों.
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court, Circuit न्यायाधीशों of the न्यायालयों of appeals, और ज़िला न्यायाधीशों of the संयुक्त राज्य district courts.
All of ये न्यायाधीशों वर्णित यूँ दूर हैं referred to sometimes as `` आलेख iii न्यायाधीशों '' क्युकी वे कसरत the न्यायिक शक्ति vested in the न्यायिक branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution.
In addition, judges of the अदालत of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार कसरत न्यायिक power pursuant to Article III.
Other judges serving in the federal courts, including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges, हैं भी sometimes referred to as `` संघीय न्यायाधीशों '' ; however, वे हैं neither नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष nor पुष्टि by the सीनेट, और उनके शक्ति गर्भाशयी इससे Article I instead.
See Article i और आलेख iii अधिकरणों.
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a छोटी pocket-sized semi-automatic पिस्टल designed by Beretta in Italy.
Production began in late 1984, solely in the beretta u.s.A. सुविधा in Accokeek, Maryland.
It is a further विकास of the beretta मॉडल 20, जिनकी उत्पादन ended in 1985.
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( प्रायः shortened to vul ) is a प्रकार of जीवन बीमे that builds a cash value.
In a VUL, the cash value can be invested in a wide variety of पृथक खाते, समान to परस्पर निधि, और the choice of which of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner.
The 'variable ' component in the नाम refers to इस क्षमता to invest in पृथक accounts whose values vary—they vary because they are invested in stock and/or bond markets.
The 'universal ' component in the name refers to the लचीलापन the मालिक रै in बनाना प्रीमियम भुगतान.
The premiums can vary इससे nothing in a दिए माह up to maximums पारिभाषित by the आतंरिक Revenue Code for life insurance.
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life insurance that has fixed प्रीमियम भुगतान कि typically can नहीं be छूटी बगैर lapsing the नीति ( हालांकि एक may कसरत an स्वचालित प्रीमियम Loan feature, or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ).
Variable universal life is a type of permanent life insurance, because the death benefit होगा be सशुल्क if the insured मरता कोई समय as long as वहीँ is sufficient नकदी मान to अदा the costs of insurance in the policy.
With most if not all VULs, unlike whole life, वहीँ is no endowment आयु ( the आयु at जिससे the नकदी मान बराबरी the मौत लाभ राशि, which for whole life is typically 100 ).
This is yet another कुंजी लाभ of vul over Whole Life.
With a typical पूरे जीवन नीति, the मौत लाभ is सीमित to the फेस राशि निर्दिष्ट in the नीति, and at endowment age, the face amount is all that is paid out.
Thus with either death or endowment, the बीमे कम्पनी keeps कोई cash value built up over the years.
However, some participating पूरे जीवन नीतियों प्रस्ताव राइडर्स जिससे बताएँ कि कोई dividends सशुल्क on the नीति be प्रयुक्त to खरीदें `` सशुल्क up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and the death benefit over time.
If investments made in the separate accounts out-perform the general account of the insurance company, a higher rate-of-return can occur than the फिक्स्ड rates-of-return ठेठ for whole life.
The combination over the years of no endowment age, continually increasing मौत लाभ, और if a ऊँची rate-of-return is अर्जित in the पृथक खाते of a vul नीति, इस could परिणाम in उच्चतर value to the owner or beneficiary than that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums.
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the क्लासिक लकडी स्टोव adapted लिये set-up बाहरी जबकि still transferring the heat to interior buildings.
A mound of लड़की स्काउट कुकीज़.
This mound contains 74 बाक्स of कुकीज़
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies बेची by लड़की स्काउट of the यूएसए ( gsusa ) as एक of इसके प्रमुख fundraisers for local Scout units.
Members of the GSUSA have been selling कुकीज़ चूंकि 1917 to उठाएँ funds.
लड़कियों जो participate can earn पुरस्कार लिये their efforts.
There are also unit incentives if the ईकाई as a पूरे करता खूब.
As of 2007, sales were estimated at about 200 लाख बाक्स per year.
विश्वविद्यालयों हॉल
Purdue University, स्तिथ in वेस्ट lafayette, इंडियाना, is the फ्लैगशिप university of the six-campus Purdue University system.
Purdue was संस्थापित on may 6, 1869, as a land-grant विश्वविद्यालयों जब the इंडियाना सामान्य सभा, लेने लाभ of the morrill अधिनियम, स्वीकृत a दान of जमीन and money from Lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science, technology, and agriculture in his name.
The first classes were held on सितंबर 16, 1874, साथ छह instructors और 39 विद्यार्थी.
आज, purdue is a सदस्य of the Big Ten Conference, and is a well known world-class research institution.
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any विश्वविद्यालयों in इंडियाना as खूब as the चौथी largest अंतरराष्ट्रीय छात्र जनसांख्यिकी of any university in the United States.
Purdue offers both undergraduate और ग्रैजुएट कार्यक्रम in over 211 प्रमुख areas of study, and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula.
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of aviation, having established the first college credit offered in flight training, the पहला four-year स्नातक 's उपाधि in विमानन, और the पहला विश्वविद्यालयों विमानक्षेत्र ( purdue विश्वविद्यालयों विमानक्षेत्र ).
Purdue 's aviation प्रौद्योगिकी कार्यक्रम remains एक of the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी aviation-specific programs in the world.
In the mid-20th century, Purdue 's aviation program विस्तारित to encompass उन्नत spaceflight प्रौद्योगिकी giving वृद्धि to purdue 's nickname, Cradle of Astronauts.
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts, including गस grissom ( एक of the असली पारा सात astronauts ), neil आर्मस्ट्रांग ( the पहला व्यक्ति to चलना on the moon ), and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ).
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a term that loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( भी ज्ञात as epidermal cysts ; l72.0 ) or पिलर cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ).
Because an epidermoid cyst originates in the epidermis and a pilar cyst originates इससे बाल follicles, by परिभाषा, neither प्रकार of गाँठ is सख्ती a वसामय cyst.
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty, white, semi-solid material in both of ये गाँठ entities is नहीं sebum, लकिन keratin.
furthermore, अंतर्गत the सूक्ष्मदर्शी neither entity contains sebaceous glands.
In practice, however, the शर्तें हैं प्रायः प्रयुक्त interchangeably.
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and हैं ज्ञात as steatocystomas or, if अनेक, as steatocystoma multiplex.
Modern pointe जूते.
The किनारे of the टो pad, जिससे is inserted between the पैर and toe box for cushioning, can be seen on the right foot.
A pointe shoe is a प्रकार of जूता worn by बैले नर्तक जब performing pointe work.
Pointe shoes developed from the ख्वाहिश लिये नर्तक to appear weightless और sylph -like और have विकसित to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended periods of time.
They are normally worn by female dancers, though male dancers may पहनें उन्हें लिये अपरंपरागत भूमिकाएँ ऐसे as the भद्दा stepsisters in सिंडरेला, नीचे in a midsummer रात्रि 's सपना, or मेन performing as महिलाओं in नृत्य कंपनियाँ such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva.
They are manufactured in a किस्में of रंगों, सबसे commonly in shades of light pink.
This tablespoon रै a क्षमता of परिचय 15 mL.
measuring spoons
In the us और भाग of कनाडा, a tablespoon is the largest type of spoon used for eating from a bowl.
In the UK, Europe and most Commonwealth countries, a tablespoon is a प्रकार of विशाल चमचा usually used for serving.
In देशों जहाँ a tablespoon is a सेवारत चमचा, the निकटतम समतुल्य to the us tablespoon is either the dessert spoon or the soup spoon.
A tablespoonful, nominally the क्षमता of एक tablespoon, is commonly प्रयुक्त as a माप of volume in cooking.
It is abbreviated as T, tb, tbs, tbsp, tblsp, or tblspn.
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is नहीं regulated by विधि और is विषय to considerable variation.
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is लगभग 15 ml ; the क्षमता of an वास्तविक tablespoon ( डाइनिंग utensil ) सीमाएँ from 7 mL to 14 mL.
In ऑस्ट्रेलिया एक tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is 20 mL.
Harry Potter is a श्रेणी of सात काल्पनिक novels लिखा by the British author J. K. Rowling.
The books chronicle the adventures of a जादूगर, हैरी कुम्हार, और उसके मित्रों रोनाल्ड वीज़्ली और हर्माइनी ग्रेंजर, सब of जिसको हैं विद्यार्थी at हॉग्वार्ट्स School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the अंधेरा जादूगर रब voldemort, जिनकी aims हैं to become अमर, जीतें the wizarding world, subjugate non-magical people, and destroy all those who stand in his way, especially Harry Potter.
Since the release of the first novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone on 30 June 1997, the किताबे have gained immense लोकप्रियता, नाजुक acclaim और वाणिज्यिक success worldwide.
The श्रेणी रै भी था कुछ share of आलोचना, including concern for the increasingly dark tone.
, the book श्रेणी रै बेची परिचय 450 लाख नक़ल, बनाना it the best-selling किताब श्रेणी in history, and has been translated into 67 languages.
The last four books consecutively set records as the fastest-selling किताबे in इतिहास.
A series of many genres, including fantasy and coming of आयु ( साथ तत्व of रहस्य, थ्रिलर, एडवेंचर, और रोमांस ), it has many cultural meanings and references.
According to Rowling, the प्रमुख थीम is मौत.
There हैं भी अनेक अन्य विषयवस्तु in the श्रेणी, such as prejudice and corruption.
The initial major publishers of the books यहूद bloomsbury in the संयुक्त किंगडम और scholastic दबायें in the United States.
The books have चूंकि महरूम प्रकाशित by many publishers worldwide.
The किताबे, साथ the सातवाँ किताब विभाजित into दो भाग, have महरूम बना into an eight-part film series by Warner Bros. Pictures, the highest-grossing film series of all time.
The series also originated much tie-in merchandise, बनाना the हैरी कुम्हार ब्रांड लायक in excess of $ 15 billion.
Also due to the success of the books and films, Harry Potter has been प्रयुक्त लिये a थीम पार्क, the wizarding संसार of हैरी कुम्हार in सार्वभौमिक पार्क & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure.
RS-68 being tested at नासा 's Stennis Space Center.
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to this engine 's exhaust होने ज़्यादातर अतितप्त भाप ( जल वाष्प इससे इसके propellants, हाइड्रोजन and oxygen )
Viking 5C प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन
A rocket engine, or बस `` प्रक्षेपास्त्र '', is a जेट इंजन कि उपयोग तभी भंडारित propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet.
Rocket engines are reaction engines and obtain thrust in accordance साथ न्यूटन 's third law.
Since they need no external material to form their jet, rocket engines can be प्रयुक्त लिये spacecraft नोदन as खूब as स्थलीय उपयोग, such as missiles.
Most rocket इंजन हैं आतंरिक दहन इंजन, although non-combusting forms also exist.
प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन as a समूह have the उच्चतम exhaust गतियाँ, हैं by दूर the lightest, but are the least propellant efficient of all types of jet engines.
``... baby एक अधिक समय '' is a सोंग by American recording artist Britney Spears.
It served as Spears 's डेब्यू सिंगल और शीर्षक track इससे उसके डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम,... Baby One More Time ( 1999 ).
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and Rami, ``... Baby One More समय '' थी released on सितंबर 30, 1998, by Jive Records.
After recording and sending a डेमो टेप साथ an अप्रयुक्त सोंग इससे toni braxton, स्पीयर्स signed a multi-album deal with Jive.
``... Baby One More Time '' is a टीन पॉप और dance-pop सोंग कि refers to a लड़की जो संताप तोड़कर up साथ her boyfriend.
The song received generally favorable reviews इससे आलोचकों, जो praised इसके संयोजन.
``... Baby One More Time '' attained वैश्विक कामयाबी, reaching क्रमांक एक in प्रत्येक देश it charted.
It also received numerous certifications around the संसार, और is एक of the best-selling singles of all time, with over 10 million copies sold.
An accompanying music video, directed by Nigel Dick, portrays स्पीयर्स as a छात्र इससे a कैथोलिक ऊँची स्कूल, जो starts to daydream कि वो is गायन और नाचना around the स्कूल, जबकि watching her love interest from afar.
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ), जहाँ स्पीयर्स 's fictional बेटी is वेश साथ a समान schoolgirl पहनावा while wearing pink ribbons in her hair.
In 2010, the music video for ``... baby एक अधिक समय '' थी voted the तीसरा सबसे influential वीडियो in the इतिहास of pop music, in a poll held by Jam !.
Spears has performed ``... Baby One More Time '' in a number of live दिखावे और in सब of उसके कॉन्सर्ट टुर.
It was the encore of the... baby एक अधिक समय दौरे ( 1999 ) और सपना भीतर a सपना दौरे ( 2001 ) ; स्पीयर्स भी performed remixed versions of the song during the Oops !...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ), The Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ), The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ), The Circus अभिनीत britney स्पीयर्स ( 2009 ), और the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ).
``... Baby One More Time '' was nominated लिये a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन मादा पॉप गायन प्रदर्शन, और रै महरूम शामिल in सूचियाँ by Blender, Rolling Stone and VH1.
it रै महरूम विख्यात लिये redefining the sound of late 1990s music.
Spears has named ``... baby एक अधिक समय '' as एक of उसके favorite songs from her career.
It was also the final सोंग to be निभाई on the बीबीसी 's म्यूज़िक कार्यक्रम Top of the Pops.
Cholera is an infection in the small आंत caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae.
The प्रमुख लक्षण हैं watery diarrhea and vomiting.
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated by the मल ( बर्बाद उत्पाद ) of an संक्रमित व्यक्ति, सहित एक साथ no apparent लक्षण.
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can सीसे to रैपिड निर्जलीकरण और electrolyte असंतुलन, and death in some cases.
The primary treatment is oral rehydration therapy, typically with oral पुनर्जलीकरण समाधान, to बदलें water and electrolytes.
If this is not tolerated or does not provide improvement fast पर्याप्त, intravenous fluids can भी be प्रयुक्त.
Antibacterial drugs are beneficial in those with कठोर बीमारी to shorten इसके अवधि और गंभीरता.
Worldwide, it affects 3–5 लाख लोगों और कल्याणकारी 100,000–130,000 deaths a year.
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be पढ़ाई by epidemiological methods.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only published novel by Oscar Wilde, appearing as the lead story in Lippincott 's मासिक पत्रिका on 20 जून 1890, मुद्रित as the जुलाई 1890 समस्या of इस पत्रिका.
The magazine 's editors feared the स्टोरी थी अभद्र as सुपुर्द, so they censored roughly 500 words, without Wilde 's knowledge, before publication.
But even with that, the story was still greeted with outrage by British reviewers, some of whom सुझाया कि वाइल्ड चाहिए be prosecuted on moral grounds, अग्रणी वाइल्ड to बचाव the अनोखा aggressively in letters to the British press.
Wilde later revised the story for book प्रकाशन, बनाना substantial alterations, हटाना विवादास्पद passages, adding नई अध्याय and including an aphoristic Preface which has since become famous in its own right.
The amended version was published by वार्ड, ताला और कम्पनी in अप्रैल 1891.
Some scholars believe that Wilde would today have wanted us to पढ़ा the संस्करण he originally सुपुर्द to lippincott 's.
The novel tells of a young man named Dorian Gray, the विषय of a पेंटिंग by कलाकार Basil Hallward.
बेसिल is प्रभावित by डोरियन 's सौंदर्य और becomes infatuated साथ उसे, believing his beauty is responsible for a new mode in his art.
Dorian meets Lord Henry Wotton, a friend of Basil 's, and becomes enthralled by रब हेनरी 's संसार दृश्य.
Espousing a नई hedonism, रब हेनरी suggests the तभी बाते लायक pursuing in life are beauty and fulfilment of the senses.
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade, डोरियन ( whimsically ) expresses a ख्वाहिश to बेचें उसके आत्मा to ensure the पोर्ट्रेट बेसिल रै चित्रित होता आयु बल्कि than he.
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled, and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery, the पोर्ट्रेट serves as a स्मरण of the प्रभाव प्रत्येक अधिनियम रै upon उसके आत्मा, साथ प्रत्येक सिन प्रदर्शित as a disfigurement of his form, or through a sign of aging.
the चित्र of डोरियन धूसर is माना a कार्य of क्लासिक Gothic fiction with a strong Faustian theme.
Sári Gábor ( born 6 फ़रवरी 1917 ), ज्ञात as ज़ा ज़ा गैबर ( ), is a हंगेरियाई -born अमरीकी actress who acted in supporting roles in movies, on Broadway, and occasionally on television.
गैबर थी भी a socialite.
वो began उसके स्टेज करियर in वियना at आयु 15, and was crowned Miss Hungary in 1936.
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 और became a sought-after अभिनेत्री साथ `` यूरोपीय फ्लेयर और स्टाइल '', with a personality that `` exuded charm and grace ''.
Her first फिल्म भूमिका थी as supporting अभिनेत्री in Lovely to Look At.
She बाद acted in we 're Not Married !
and played one of her few leading भूमिकाएँ in moulin रूज ( 1952 ), निर्देशित by जॉन हस्टन, who described her as a `` creditable '' actress.
besides उसके फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न दिखावे, वो is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये having nine husbands, including hotel magnate Conrad Hilton and actor George Sanders.
She once stated, `` Men have always liked me और i have सदा liked men.
लकिन i जैसे a mannish man, a man जो knows कैसा to talk to and treat a woman – not just a man with muscles. ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 – 20 जुलाई 1973 ) थी a चाइनीज अमरीकी martial कलाकार, कर्ता, martial कला प्रशिक्षक, पारस, and filmmaker.
The founder of Jeet Kune Do, ली थी the बेटे of cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen.
He is widely considered by commentators, critics, media and other martial कलाकारों to be एक of the सबसे influential martial कलाकारों of all time, and a pop culture icon of the 20th century.
He is often credited with helping to बदलें the रास्ता एशियाइ यहूद प्रस्तुत in American films.
Lee was born in चाइनाटाउन, सैन फ्रांसिस्को on 27 नवम्बर 1940 to अभिभावक इससे हांग काँग and was raised in Kowloon with his family until his late teens.
He was introduced to the film उद्योग by उसके पिता और appeared in अनेक films as a child actor.
Lee moved to the United राज्य at the आयु of 18 to प्राप्त उसके उच्चतर शिक्षा, और it was during this time that he began teaching martial arts.
His Hong Kong और हॉलीवुड -उपजd films elevated the परंपरागत हांग काँग martial कला फिल्मी to a new level of popularity and acclaim, sparking a surge of interest in Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s.
The direction and tone of his films बदला और बहकावे martial कला और martial कला films in हांग काँग और the rest of the world.
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; रास्ता of the ड्रैगन ( 1972 ), निर्देशित और लिखा by Lee ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ), both directed by Robert Clouse.
Lee became an iconic figure known throughout the world, particularly among the चाइनीज, as he portrayed चाइनीज nationalism in his films.
He initially प्रशिक्षित in wing chun, लकिन बाद अस्वीकृत well-defined martial आर्ट शैलियाँ, favouring instead the use of techniques from various sources, in the spirit of his personal martial arts philosophy, which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do ( The Way of the Intercepting Fist ).
Lee held dual citizenship of Hong Kong and the संयुक्त राज्य.
he died in कोलून टोंग on 20 July 1973 at age 32.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ), also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ), chronic obstructive airway disease ( COAD ), दीर्घकालिक airflow limitation ( कैलोरी ) और दीर्घकालिक obstructive respiratory बीमारी ( cord ), is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema, a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time.
This limits airflow to and from the फेफड़े, causing shortness of साँस ( dyspnea ).
In clinical practice, COPD is पारिभाषित by इसके characteristically low airflow on lung function tests.
In contrast to asthma, इस limitation is poorly reversible and usually gets progressively worse over time.
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas, सबसे commonly इससे तम्बाकू धूम्रपान, जिससे triggers an abnormal inflammatory response in the lung.
The निदान of copd requires lung function tests.
Important management strategies are smoking cessation, vaccinations, पुनर्वास, और ड्रग therapy ( often using inhalers ).
Some मरीजों go on to आवश्यकता long-term oxygen therapy or lung transplantation.
Worldwide, COPD ranked as the छठे अग्रणी कारण of मौत in 1990.
It is projected to become the fourth leading cause of death worldwide by 2030, due to an बढ़ाएँ in धूम्रपान दरों और जनसांख्यिकी परिवर्तन in many countries.
COPD is the third leading cause of मौत in the u.S., और the आर्थिक बोझ of copd in the u.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health care costs and lost productivity.
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank (, ?, ; 12 June 1929early कूच 1945 ) is एक of the सबसे discussed यहूदी पीड़ितों of the Holocaust.
Her diary रै महरूम the आधार लिये अनेक plays and films.
Born in the city of Frankfurt am Main in Weimar Germany, she lived most of उसके जीवन in or निकट एम्सटर्डम, in the नीदरलैंड्स.
Born a जर्मनी नेशनल, फ़्रैंक lost her citizenship in 1941.
She gained international कीर्ति मरणोपरांत बाद उसके डायरी थी प्रकाशित.
It दस्तावेज़ उसके अनुभवों छुपाना दौरान the German occupation of the Netherlands in World War II.
The Frank family moved from Germany to एम्सटर्डम in 1933, the साल the nazis gained control over Germany.
By the beginning of 1940, they were trapped in एम्सटर्डम by the नाजी occupation of the नीदरलैंड्स.
as persecutions of the यहूदी जनसांख्यिकी increased in जुलाई 1942, the family went into hiding in the hidden rooms of Anne 's father, Otto Frank 's, office building.
बाद दो सालो, the समूह थी गद्दारी and transported to concentration camps.
Anne Frank and her sister, Margot, were eventually transferred to the bergen-belsen विशेषज्ञता शिविर, जहाँ वे died of सन्निपात in कूच 1945.
Otto Frank, the only survivor of the family, लौटे to एम्सटर्डम बाद the युद्ध to ढूँढें कि ऐनी 's डायरी था महरूम saved, and his efforts led to its publication in 1947.
It was translated from its original Dutch and first प्रकाशित in अंग्रेज़ी in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl.
It has since महरूम अनूदित into अनेक भाषाएं.
The diary, which was given to Anne on her 13th जन्मदिवस, क्रॉनिकल्स उसके जीवन इससे 12 जून 1942 जबतक 1 अगस्त 1944.
Kurt 's हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – April 5, 1994 ) was an American संगीतकार और कलाकार, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the सीसे सिंगर, guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen, Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the Seattle music झाँकी, having इसके डेब्यू एल्बम ब्लीच released on the स्वतंत्र रिकार्ड लेबल sub Pop in 1989.
After signing with major label DGC Records, the band मिला भेदन कामयाबी साथ `` खुश्बू जैसे टीन स्पिरिट `` इससे its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the कामयाबी of nevermind, निर्वाण थी labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X, and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, थी प्रायः असहज और कुंठित, believing उसके संदेश और कलाकारी vision to have been misinterpreted by the public, with his personal issues often subject to media attention.
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its फाइनल स्टुडियो एल्बम in utero ( 1993 ).
During the last years of his life, कोबेन struggled साथ हेरोइन व्यसन, बीमारी and depression.
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image, और the पेशेवर और lifelong निजी pressures surrounding himself and his wife, musician Courtney Love.
On April 8, 1994, Cobain was found dead at his home in सिएटल, the शिकार of कया थी officially शासित a आत्महत्या by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
The हालातों of उसके मौत at age 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate.
Since their debut, निर्वाण, साथ कोबेन as a songwriter, रै बेची over 25 लाख albums in the U.S., and over 50 million worldwide.
Radial इंजन समय और cam mechanism.
click लिये पूरा रेज़ोल्यूशन animation.
रेडियल इंजन of a biplane
Master rod ( upright ), slaves और balances इससे a two-row, fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The रेडियल इंजन is a प्रत्यागमनी type internal combustion engine configuration in which the cylinders point outward from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel.
It resembles a stylized star when viewed from the front, and is पुकारा a `` स्टार इंजन '' ( जर्मनी sternmotor ) in कुछ languages.
The radial विन्यास थी बहुत commonly प्रयुक्त in वायुयान engines before turbine engines became predominant.
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom, निर्मित by सुसान हैरिस, कि originally aired on एनबीसी इससे सितंबर 13, 1985, to May 9, 1992.
Starring Bea Arthur, Betty White, Rue mcclanahan और estelle getty, the दिखाएँ centers on चार पुरानी महिलाओं sharing a home in Miami, Florida.
It was produced by Witt/Thomas/Harris प्रोडक्शन्स, in संघ साथ touchstone टेलीविज़न, और पॉल junger witt, टोनी थामस, और हैरिस परोसा as the original executive producers.
The सुनहरी लड़कियों प्राप्त नाजुक acclaim throughout सबसे of इसके चलाएं और जीती अनेक awards, including the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series twice.
It also won three Golden Globe पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन टेलीविज़न श्रेणी – musical or Comedy.
All four stars each received an Emmy Award throughout the श्रेणी ' चलाएं और था अनेक nominations.
The series also ranked among the top ten highest-rated कार्यक्रम लिये छह आउट of इसके सात सीज़न.
Deepwater drilling is the प्रक्रम of आयल और गैस खोजी और उत्पादन in depths of more than 500 feet.
By this परिभाषा, वहीँ हैं लगभग 600 deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico.
It has been economically infeasible लिये अनेक सालो, लकिन साथ उठती आयल कीमतें, अधिक कंपनियाँ हैं investing in this area.
Major companies working in this sector include डायमंड offshore, transocean, और बेकर Hughes.
There are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater खुदाई rigs : semi-submersible खुदाई rigs और drillships.
Drilling can भी be performed इससे a fixed-position संस्थापना such as a floating spar ( platform ) or tension-leg platform.
Recent industry analysis has estimated that the total expenditure in the वैश्विक deepwater अवसंरचना मार्केट होगा पहुँचें $ 145bn in 2011.
“not सब आयल is accessible on land or in shallow water.
You can find some oil deposits buried deep under the ocean floor.”... using सोनिक उपकरण, आयल कंपनियाँ determine the खुदाई साइट most likely to produce oil.
Then they use a mobile offshore drilling ईकाई ( मोदू ) to खुदाई the आरंभिक खूब.
Some units are converted into उत्पादन rigs, अर्थ वे switch from drilling for oil to capturing oil once it 's found.
Most of the time, the आयल कम्पनी होगा बदलें the मोदू साथ a अधिक स्थाई आयल उत्पादन रिग to कैप्चर oil.”... the मोदू 's job is to drill down into the ocean 's floor to find oil deposits.
The part of the drill that extends नीचे the डेक और through the water is called the riser.
The riser allows लिये खुदाई fluids to मूव between the मंजिल and the rig.
Engineers lower a drill स्ट्रिंग -- a श्रेणी of पाइप designed to ड्रिल bas to the आयल deposit -- through the riser.”
“The विस्तार of deepwater खुदाई is happening despite दुर्घटनाओं in offshore fields... ”
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 workers and spilling लाखो of गैलन of आयल into the गल्फ of मैक्सिको जबकि a bp आयल रिग was drilling in deep waters.
“... Despite the risks, the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी बाद a स्ट्रिंग of विशाल discoveries of प्राकृतिक gas.”
“The reason for the resumption of ऐसे drilling, analyst say, is continuing high demand for energy worldwide.”
America needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face the ऊँची risks कि आइये साथ deepwater खुदाई in अनुक्रम लिये अमेरिकी to continue to carry on their everyday lives.
“The Energy Department recently प्रक्षिप्त कि गल्फ आयल उत्पादन होता विस्तार इससे इसके 2011 स्तर of 1.3 लाख barrels a दिन, स्टिल nearly a quarter of total domestic production, to 2 million barrels a day by 2020.”
Deepwater खुदाई affects the पर्यावरण in दोनो ऋणात्मक and positive ways.
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes आयल spills it is स्टिल a hazardous संभावित outcome.
Oil spills परिणाम in आयल डूब to the नीचे of the समंदर smothering संयंत्र life leaving fish without food and shelter to survive.
On the other hand deepwater खुदाई प्रभाव the पर्यावरण in a positive ways too.
In time once the deepwater oil well is not in use anymore plants will grow on and around the well बनाना a गुफा or cavern जैसे आश्रय आदर्श लिये पशु to thrive in.
Deepwater drilling also lets us see the depths of the समंदर मंजिल कि हैं hardly कभी seen.
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take फ़ोटो of विरल मछली कि हैं in वहीँ प्राकृतिक आवास, giving scientist a look at animals they rarely seen” ( Chevron Corporation ). ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an American स्त्री साथ जिसको संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष विधेयक क्लिंटन admitted to having था an `` improper संबंध '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996.
The affair and its परखना ( जिससे शामिल क्लिंटन 's महाभियोग ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal.
Francis Albert `` फ़्रैंक '' सिनात्रा,, ( दिसम्बर 12, 1915 – may 14, 1998 ) was an American singer and film actor.
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy dorsey, सिनात्रा मिला unprecedented कामयाबी as a सोलो कलाकार इससे the जल्दी to mid-1940s बाद होने हस्ताक्षरित to Columbia Records in 1943.
Being the आइडल of the `` bobby soxers ``, he released उसके first album, The Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946.
His professional career had stalled by the 1950s, लकिन it थी पुनर्जन्म in 1953 बाद he जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity.
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released अनेक critically lauded एल्बम ( ऐसे as in the मूत छोटी घंटों, गीतों लिये swingin ' प्रेमियों !, Come Fly with Me, Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ).
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label, Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with albums such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding !, Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim ), toured internationally, थी a founding सदस्य of the चूहा पैक और fraternized साथ हस्तियाँ और कूटनीतिज्ञों, सहित जॉन F. कैनेडी.
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965, recorded the retrospective September of My Years, स्ट्रक्चर in the एमी -winning टेलीविज़न खास फ़्रैंक सिनात्रा : a man और His Music, and scored hits with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way ``.
With sales of his music dwindling and after appearing in अनेक poorly प्राप्त films, सिनात्रा रिटायर्ड for the first time in 1971.
Two years later, however, he came आउट of रिटायरमेंट और in 1973 अंकित अनेक एल्बम, स्कोरिंग a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme From ) New York, New York `` in 1980.
Using his Las Vegas shows as a home base, he toured दोनो भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य और internationally, जबतक a छोटी समय पहले उसके death in 1998.
Sinatra also forged a अत्यधिक कामयाब करियर as a फिल्मी actor.
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953, he also garnered a नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये the man साथ the Golden Arm, and critical acclaim for his performance in The Manchurian Candidate.
He also starred in such musicals as ऊँची समाज, pal जॉय, यारों and Dolls and On the Town.
Sinatra was honored at the कैनेडी बीच honors in 1983 और थी awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक of Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997.
He was the recipient of eleven Grammy Awards, including the Grammy Trustees Award, ग्रैमी लेजेंड पुरस्कार और the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि Award.
Sinatra is also एक of world’s best-selling कलाकारों of सब समय, having बेची अधिक than 150 million copies worldwide.
ठेठ cornhole board
Cornhole, also known as bean bag toss, corn toss, baggo or bags, is a लॉन खेल in जिससे खिलाड़ी लो turns फेंकना corn hole bags at a raised platform with a hole in the far end.
A थैला in the छेद स्कोर 3 अंक, जबकि एक on the platform scores 1 point.
Play continues जबतक a टोली or खिलाड़ी reaches the score of 21.
The American सुनहरा त्रिभुज is an आधिकारिक सुनहरा bullion coin of the United States.
Authorized under the सुनहरा bullion सिक्का अधिनियम of 1985, it थी पहला released by the संयुक्त राज्य Mint in 1986.
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga कि बिक्रम choudhury synthesized इससे परंपरागत hatha योग तकनीकों और popularized beginning in the early 1970s.
All Bikram Yoga classes run for 90 minutes and consist of the same series of 26 postures और 2 श्वास exercises.
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a रूम heated to 105°f ( ≈ 40.6°C ) with a humidity of 40 %,.
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an American actor, comedian and rapper बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये अभिनीत as माइकल barret in निकलोडियन टेलीविज़न श्रेणी Zoey 101.
Massey has received many awards and nomination including a Young कलाकार पुरस्कार और एमी पुरस्कार nominations.
He is भी ज्ञात लिये appearing in अनेक commercials in the early 2000s.
A conventional teaspoon बना of बेदाग स्टील.
a teaspoon is an मद of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument, as well as a unit of measurement of volume in some countries and customs.
A fern is any one or more of a group of about 12,000 प्रजाति of पौधे belonging to the वनस्पति समूह known as Pteridophyta.
Unlike mosses, वे have जाइलम और फ्लोएम ( making them vascular plants ).
They have stems, पत्ते, और जड़ें like other vascular plants.
Ferns reproduce via spores और have neither seeds nor flowers.
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns, but ferns as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) शामिल horsetails, whisk ferns, marattioid ferns, and ophioglossoid ferns.
The term pteridophyte also refers to ferns और a few अन्य बीजरहित vascular पौधे ( देखिए वर्गीकरण खण्ड below ).
Ferns first appear in the चट्टान रिकार्ड 360 लाख सालो पहले in the carboniferous लकिन अनेक of the वर्तमान families and species did not appear until roughly 145 million years ago in the early Cretaceous ( after flowering plants came to dominate many environments ).
Ferns are not of major economic importance, but some are grown or gathered for food, as ornamental plants, for remediating contaminated soils, और have महरूम the विषय of शोध लिये उनके ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air.
Some हैं significant weeds.
They भी खेल a भूमिका in mythology, medicine, and art.
Flat roofs in इसराईल
Flat छत in लॉस एंजिल्स
A flat roof is a प्रकार of covering for a building.
In contrast to the more sloped form of छत, a चपटा छत is आड़ा or nearly horizontal.
The slope of a roof is properly ज्ञात as इसके पिच : roofs जिससे हैं nearly चपटा हैं ज्ञात as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases, so the pitch is said to increase ).
Any sheet of material used to cover a flat or low-pitched छत is प्रायः ज्ञात as a झिल्ली और the प्राथमिक purpose of ये झिल्लियों is to waterproof the roof area.
Materials कि कवर चपटा roofs typically allow the जल to चलाएं बंद इससे a पतला inclination or camber into a gutter system.
Water from some flat roofs such as on garden sheds sometimes flows freely बंद the किनारे of a छत, हालांकि gutter प्रणालियों हैं of लाभ in keeping दोनो दीवारें and foundations dry.
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead water directly onto the मैदान, or बेहतर, into a विशेषकर बना soakaway.
Gutters on larger roofs usually lead water into the rainwater नाले प्रणाली of कोई निर्मित up area.
occasionally चपटा roofs हालांकि हैं designed to collect water in a pool, usually for aesthetic purposes, or for rainwater buffering.
Flat roofs मौजूद सब over the संसार और प्रत्येक area has its own tradition or preference for materials used.
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and freezing is unlikely to occur, many flat roofs are simply built of masonry or concrete and this is शुभ at keeping आउट the ऊष्मा of the सूर्य और सस्ती और आसान to निर्माण where timber is not readily available.
In areas जहाँ the छत could become संतृप्त by बरसात और लीक, or जहाँ जल soaked into the brickwork could फ्रीज to बर्फ और यूँ lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable.
Traditionally most flat roofs in the western संसार मेक उपयोग of तारकोल or अधिक प्रायः तारकोल पेपर लागू over छत decking to keep a building watertight.
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to keep the sun 's ऊष्मा, uv किरणें और मौसम बंद it और helps protect it इससे cracking or blistering and degradation.
Roof decking is usually of plywood, chipboard or osb फलक ( osb = उन्मुख strand फलक, भी ज्ञात as स्टर्लिंग board ) of around 18mm thickness.
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid, heated in a tar kettle, or as चादरें of तारकोल impregnated 'paper ' चिपके bas और sealed साथ at joints by hot तारकोल - एकबार it रै cooled, the gravel is spread evenly over it.
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is अनभिज्ञता or कमी of मेंटेनेंस जहाँ लोगों or कार्यक्रम कारण the बजरी to be स्थानांतरित or removed इससे the तारकोल or tarpaper waterproofing, यूँ exposing it to weather and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in.
Tarpaper is प्रायः a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in tar.
As gravel can not protect tarpaper सतहों जहाँ वे वृद्धि खड़ा इससे the छत ऐसे as on मुंडेर दीवारें or upstands, tarpaper विसंगतियाँ हैं उत्पादित साथ ठीक बजरी लागू to the hot tar during the process of manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection.
Tarpapers vary in quality as does the कारीगरी और प्रशिक्षण of those applying it to उपज अधिक or कम successful results.
In some micro climates or छायांकित क्षेत्रों ये बल्कि 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can पिछला खूब in संबंध to the cost of materials purchase and cost of laying them, however the cost of modern membranes such as EPDM has come down over recent years to make them more and more affordable.
There are now more firms supplying आधुनिक विकल्प और वहीँ is generally a growing awareness of their performance and availability.
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed for long अवधि of समय दौरान जिससे जल penetrates और soaks the अलंकार और कोई इन्सुलेशन and/or ढांचा beneath it.
This can lead to expensive damage इससे the दुर्गन्ध जिससे प्रायः develops और if left can weaken the roof structure.
There are also various health risks to people and animals breathing the सांचे बीजाणुओं : the गंभीरता of इस स्वास्थ्य रिस्क remains a debated point.
One problem with maintaining चपटा roofs is कि if जल करता घुस the अवरोध covering ( be it traditional or a modern membrane ) it can travel a long way before causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be seen.
Thus it is not आसान to देखिए जहाँ it is leaking in order to repair it.
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a further संग्रहण or puddling of जल in कि क्षेत्रफल और the प्रॉब्लम worsens.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क जिससे contains data.
The name is an acronym which स्टैंड लिये `` कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क read-only मेमोरी ``.
Computers can पढ़ा cd-roms, लकिन can नहीं write on them.
CD-ROMs are popularly used to वितरित कंप्यूटर तन्त्र, सहित वीडियो खेल और मल्टीमीडिया applications, though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
Some CDs, called enhanced CDs, hold both computer data and audio with the latter capable of being played on a CD player, while data ( such as तन्त्र or डिजिटल वीडियो ) is तभी usable on a कंप्यूटर ( ऐसे as आईएसओ 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
The Yellow Book is the technical standard कि defines the स्वरूप of cd-roms.
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the तकनीकी विशेषताएँ लिये सब cd स्वरुप, the पीला किताब, निर्मित by सोनी और Philips, was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio.
It adapted the format to थाम कोई रूप of आंकड़ा.
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ), ( born 31 July 1965 ), pen name J. K. रोलिंग, is a अंग्रेजों उपन्यासकार, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the लेखक of the हैरी कुम्हार काल्पनिक series.
The Potter books have gained worldwide ध्यान, जीती अनेक पुरस्कार, and sold more than 400 million copies.
They have become the best-selling book series in history, and been the basis for a श्रेणी of films जिससे रै become the highest-grossing फिल्मी श्रेणी in इतिहास.
Rowling had overall approval on the स्क्रिप्ट as खूब as maintaining रचनात्मक control by serving as a producer on the final instalment.
Born in Yate, Gloucestershire, Rowling was working as a शोधकर्ता और दुभाषिया सचिव लिये माफ़ी अंतरराष्ट्रीय जब वो conceived the विचार लिये the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990.
The seven-year period that followed entailed the मौत of उसके माँ, तलाक इससे उसके पहला husband and poverty until Rowling finished the first novel in the series, Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ).
Rowling subsequently प्रकाशित 6 sequels—the पिछला, हैरी कुम्हार और the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) —as well as 3 supplements to the series.
In 2012, Rowling parted with her agency and resumed लिखने in the रूप of a tragicomedy अनोखा aimed at वयस्क readership, हकदार The Casual Vacancy.
Rowling has said she is फिलहाल working on दो books—one aimed लिये वयस्कों, the अन्य लिये children younger than the हैरी Potter audience, and she expects the latter to be published first.
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life स्टोरी, in जिससे वो progressed इससे जीना on राज्य लाभ to multi-millionaire औकात within five years.
She is the संयुक्त किंगडम 's best-selling author since records began, with sales in excess of £238m.
The 2008 Sunday Times Rich सूची अनुमानित रोलिंग 's सौभाग्य at £560 लाख ( $ 798 लाख ), ranking her as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom.
फोर्ब्स क्रमित रोलिंग as the forty-eighth सबसे शक्तिशाली हस्ती of 2007, और समय पत्रिका नामित her as a runner-up for its 2007 Person of the Year, noting the social, moral, and political inspiration she has given her fans.
In October 2010, Rowling was नामित the `` सबसे influential स्त्री in ब्रिटेन '' by अग्रणी magazine editors.
She has become a notable philanthropist, supporting ऐसे धर्मार्थ as कॉमिक राहत, एक जनक परिवारों, अनेक काठिन्य समाज of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और lumos ( formerly the children 's High Level Group ).
auburndale is a नगर in polk काउंटी, Florida, United States.
The population थी 11,032 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005, the नगर था a जनसांख्यिकी of 12,381.
It is भाग of the lakeland – शीत Haven Metropolitan Statistical Area.
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit during expedition 7 of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस Station.
The eye, eyewall, and surrounding rainbands, विशेषताएँ of तीव्र cyclones, हैं clearly दृश्य in this view from space.
A tropical cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure center surrounded by a सर्पिल व्यवस्था of thunderstorms कि उपज strong winds and heavy rain.
Tropical cyclones strengthen when water evaporated from the ocean is released as the संतृप्त एयर उदय, resulting in संघनन of जल vapor contained in the moist air.
They are fueled by a different heat mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms ऐसे as nor'easters, यूरोपीय windstorms, और polar lows.
The characteristic that separates तीव्र cyclones इससे अन्य cyclonic प्रणालियों is कि at कोई ऊँचाई in the माहौल, the बीच of a तीव्र cyclone will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems.
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the भौगोलिक उत्पत्ति of ये प्रणालियों, जिससे प्रायः रूप in तीव्र regions of the globe, and to their formation in maritime tropical air masses.
The term `` cyclone '' refers to ऐसे तूफ़ान ' cyclonic प्रकृति, साथ counterclockwise हवा प्रवाह in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere.
The opposite दिशा of the हवा प्रवाह is a परिणाम of the Coriolis force.
depending on इसके स्थान और शक्ति, a तीव्र चक्रवात is referred to by names such as hurricane (, ), typhoon ( ), tropical storm, cyclonic storm, tropical depression, and simply cyclone.
While tropical cyclones can produce अत्यधिक शक्तिशाली हवाएँ और मूसलाधार बरसात, वे हैं भी समर्थ to produce high waves, damaging storm surge, and tornadoes.
They develop over विशाल लाशें of गरम जल, और खोना उनके शक्ति if they move over land due to increased surface friction and loss of the warm ocean as an energy source.
This is why coastal regions can receive significant damage इससे a तीव्र चक्रवात, जबकि अंतर्देशीय regions हैं अपेक्षाकृत सुरक्षित इससे receiving strong winds.
Heavy rains, however, can produce significant flooding inland, और तूफ़ान surges can उपज extensive तटीय बाढ़ up to from the coastline.
Although their effects on human populations can be विनाशकारी, तीव्र cyclones can relieve सूखा conditions.
They also carry ऊष्मा उर्जा दूर इससे the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध और हस्तांतरण it toward शीतोष्ण latitudes, which makes them an important part of the global atmospheric circulation mechanism.
As a result, tropical cyclones help to maintain equilibrium in the धरती 's क्षोभमण्डल, और to maintain a अपेक्षाकृत stable और गरम temperature worldwide.
Many tropical cyclones develop जब the वायुमंडलीय शर्तें around a कमजोर disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable.
The background environment is modulated by climatological cycles and पैटर्न ऐसे as the madden-julian दोलन, el niño-southern दोलन, और the अटलांटिक multidecadal दोलन.
Others form जब अन्य प्रकार of cyclones acquire tropical characteristics.
Tropical systems are then moved by steering winds in the क्षोभमण्डल ; if the शर्तें remain अनुकूल, the तीव्र disturbance intensifies, and can even develop an eye.
On the other end of the spectrum, if the conditions around the प्रणाली deteriorate or the तीव्र चक्रवात makes landfall, the system weakens and eventually dissipates.
It is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of ये प्रणालियों साथ वर्तमान technology.
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch, ; December 9, 1916 ) is an अमरीकी स्टेज और फिल्मी कर्ता, film producer and author.
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ), Champion ( 1949 ), Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ), The Bad and the खूबसूरत ( 1952 ), 20,000 लीग अंतर्गत the समुद्र ( 1954 ), हवस लिये जीवन ( 1956 ), राहें of महिमा ( 1957 ), gunfight at the o.k. corral ( 1957 ), the वाइकिंग्स ( 1958 ), स्पार्टाकस ( 1960 ), निर्जन हैं the वीर ( 1962 ), सात दिनों in may ( 1964 ), the नायक of telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ).
He is No.17 on the American Film Institute 's list of the greatest पुरूष अमरीकी स्क्रीन महापुरूष of सब समय, बनाना उसे the highest-ranked living person on the list.
in 1996, he प्राप्त the अकादमी मानद पुरस्कार `` for 50 years as a creative and moral force in the motion picture community. ''
He is one of the पिछला surviving अभिनेताओं इससे हॉलीवुड 's `` golden age ''.
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born may 6, 1945 ) is an अमरीकी rock and roll singer-songwriter, guitarist and pianist.
As a locally successful detroit-area कलाकार, he performed और अंकित as bob seger and the Last Heard and Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s.
By the early 1970s, he had dropped the `` प्रणाली '' इससे उसके रिकार्डिंग और जारी to नीयत for broader success with other various bands.
In 1973, he put together The Silver Bullet Band, a group of Detroit-area musicians, with जिसको he became सबसे कामयाब on the नेशनल स्तर साथ the एल्बम सजीव गोली, अंकित live with the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit, Michigan.
In 1976, he हासिल a नेशनल ब्रेकआउट साथ the studio album Night Moves.
On his studio albums, he also worked extensively साथ the alabama-based मांसपेशी shoals लय खण्ड, जिससे appeared on अनेक of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums.
A roots rocker with a classic raspy, चिल्लाना आवाज़, seger लिखा और अंकित गीतों कि dealt साथ प्रेम, महिलाओं, blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock.
Seger has recorded many hits, including `` Night Moves, '' `` Turn the Page, '' `` We 've Got Tonight, '' `` विरूद्ध the हवा, '' और shakedown कि थी लिखा लिये बेवर्ली पहाड़ियाँ cop ii और `` जैसे a चट्टान, '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight. ''
उसके iconic रिकॉर्डिंग of `` बूढ़ा समय चट्टान और Roll `` was named one of the Songs of the Century in 2001.
With a career spanning five decades, Seger continues to perform और रिकार्ड today.
Seger was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of कीर्ति in 2004 और the songwriters हॉल of कीर्ति in 2012.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) थी the 37th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, सेवारत इससे 1969 to 1974, जब he became the तभी अध्यक्ष to इस्तीफा the office.
Nixon had previously परोसा as a रिपब्लिकन u.S. प्रतिनिधि और सीनेटर from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961.
निक्सन थी born in Yorba Linda, California.
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University School of Law in 1937, returning to कैलिफ़ोर्निया to अभ्यास विधि.
He and उसके बीवी, पैट निक्सन, स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन to कार्य for the federal government in 1942.
He subsequently served in the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी दौरान संसार युद्ध II.
Nixon was elected in California to the House of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 और to the सीनेट in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his reputation as a leading anti-communist, और elevated उसे to नेशनल prominence.
He was the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Republican Party अध्यक्षीय nominee in the 1952 चुनाव.
Nixon परोसा लिये आठ सालो as वाइस अध्यक्ष.
He waged an unsuccessful presidential अभियान in 1960, narrowly खोने to जॉन F. कैनेडी, और खोया a race for Governor of California in 1962.
In 1968, he भागा again लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी and was elected.
Although Nixon initially escalated अमेरिका 's भागीदारी in the Vietnam War, he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973.
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic संबंध between the दो राष्ट्र, और he initiated détente और the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year.
domestically, उसके प्रशासन generally embraced नीतियों कि transferred power from Washington to the states.
Among other things, he launched पहलों to लड़ो कर्कट और illegal दवाएँ, imposed मजदूरी और दाम नियंत्रण, enforced desegregation of some Southern schools, and established the Environmental Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the lunar अवतरण शुरूआत साथ अपोलो 11, he scaled back manned space exploration.
He was re-elected by a भूस्खलन in 1972.
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo, the resignation of his vice president, Spiro Agnew, and a continuing series of revelations परिचय the वाटरगेट कांड और अन्य misconduct by सदस्यों of the administration.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of his political support, and on अगस्त 9, 1974, he resigned in the फेस of लगभग निश्चित महाभियोग और हटाना इससे दफ्तर.
After his resignation, he controversially प्राप्त a pardon जारी by उसके successor, Gerald Ford.
In retirement, Nixon 's work as an elder statesman, authoring अनेक किताबे और undertaking अनेक विदेशी यात्राएँ, helped to rehabilitate his public image.
he suffered a debilitating स्ट्रोक on अप्रैल 18, 1994, and died four days later at the age of 81.
{ { infobox Senator
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused कड़वा contention between अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट और Sen. Sumner.
Brady 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner, opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation would lead to the conquest of the neighboring ब्लैक गणतंत्र of हैती, became कायल कि भ्रष्टाचार lay पीछे the treaty, and that men close to the president shared in the corruption.
As chairman of the Senate विदेशी संबंध कमेटी, sen. sumner initially withheld उसके राय on the treaty on January 18, 1870.
Sen. Sumner had महरूम लीक सूचना इससे सहायक सचिव of राज्य, bancroft डेविस, कि U.S. Naval ships were being used to protect President Báez.
sen. sumner 's कमेटी voted विरूद्ध annexation और at sen. sumner’s सुझाव और काफी संभवतः to सहेजें the पार्टी from an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment, the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session.
President Grant persisted and sent संदेश to कॉंग्रेस in एहसान of annexation on March 14, 1870, and May 31, 1870.
In closed session, Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng that there would be difficulty with the foreign nationals, noting the दीर्घकालिक विद्रोह कि took प्लेस on the द्वीप, और the रिस्क कि the स्वतंत्रता of हैती, पहचाना by the United States in 1862, would be lost.
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the u.S. नेवी as a प्रोटेक्टोरेट थी a उल्लंघन of International law and unconstitutional.
Finally, on June 30, 1870 the treaty थी voted on by the सीनेट और विफल to लाभ the जरूरी 2/3 majority for treaty passage.
The following day, President Grant, feeling गद्दारी by sen. sumner, retaliated by ordering the dismissal of sumner’s बंद dost J. lothrop motley, दूत to Britain.
By autumn, Sumner 's personal hostility to the president was public knowledge, and he blamed the सचिव of राज्य लिये failing to have resigned, बल्कि than let ग्रान्ट have उसके रास्ता.
the दो मेन, मित्रों जबतक तब, cooled into bitter enemies.
In December, 1870, still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo Domingo somehow, Sumner gave a fiercely नाजुक वाक accusing the अध्यक्ष of usurpation और babcock of unethical conduct.
Already, President Grant, supported by his Secretary of State Hamilton मछली, था initiated a अभियान to depose sumner इससे the अध्यक्षता of the सीनेट विदेशी संबंध Committee.
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '', in addition to having stopped Grant 's Dominican Republic treaty attempt, Sumner had पराजित ग्रान्ट 's पूरा repeal of the कार्यकाल of दफ्तर अधिनियम, अवरोधित ग्रान्ट 's नामांकन of सिकंदर स्टीवर्ट to u.S. सचिव of राजकोष, और महरूम a निरंतर harassing फ़ोर्स pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go.
Grant resented sumner 's बड़प्पन of manner, as well.
Told once कि sumner किया नहीं मानना in the बाइबल, the अध्यक्ष is supposed to have said that he was not surprised : `` he did n't write it. ''
As the rift between ग्रान्ट और sumner increased, sumner’s health began to decline.
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on कूच 4, 1871, सीनेटरों संबद्ध साथ अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट, ज्ञात as ‘’new radicals’’ voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship.
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a रूप of लागू आचार or पेशेवर आचार कि examines नैतिक principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment.
It applies to all aspects of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals और संपूर्ण संगठन.
Business ethics has both normative और वर्णनात्मक आयाम.
As a corporate practice and a career specialization, the फ़ील्ड is primarily normative.
Academics attempting to समझे कारोबार बर्ताव employ descriptive methods.
The range and मात्रा of कारोबार नैतिक मुद्दे reflects the बातचीत of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns.
Interest in business ethics त्वरित dramatically दौरान the 1980s and 1990s, both within major corporations and within academia.
For example, today most major corporations प्रचार उनके प्रतिबद्धता to non-economic मान अंतर्गत headings such as ethics codes and social responsibility charters.
Adam Smith said, `` People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment and diversion, but the वार्तालाप ends in a षड्यंत्र विरूद्ध the पब्लिक, or in कुछ contrivance to raise prices. ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point business behavior in what वे perceive to be beneficial directions.
आचार implicitly regulates areas and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental control.
the emergence of विशाल corporations साथ सीमित relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes.
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or स्किन caused by ऊष्मा, विद्युत, रसायन, friction, or radiation.
Most burns affect only the superficial skin ( known as superficial or first degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do नहीं involve the पूरा मोटाई of the स्किन ( ज्ञात as partial thickness or second degree ).
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper ऊतकों, ऐसे as मांसपेशी or अस्थि can be घायल in जिससे मामला the बर्न is either पूरा मोटाई ( तीसरा degree ) or fourth degree.
The उपचार जरूरी depends on the severity of the burn.
Superficial burns maybe प्रबंधित साथ छोटी अधिक than सरल पीड़ा हत्यारे जबकि प्रमुख burns may require prolonged treatment in specialized burn centers.
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage however if एक्सपोज़र is prolonged it may परिणाम in कम देह तापमान.
Partial thickness burns may require सफ़ाई साथ साबुन और जल followed by dressings.
फफोले चाहिए typically be left unbroken.
पूरा मोटाई burns प्रायः आवश्यकता सर्जिकल उपचार such as skin grafting and extensive burns often require large amount of intravenous fluids.
The सबसे आम जटिलताओं of burns हैं related to infection.
While विशाल burns can be fatal, आधुनिक उपचार विकसित in the पिछला 50 सालो have significantly improved the outcomes, especially in children and young adults.
Globally about 11 लाख लोगों तलाश चिकित्सा उपचार और 300,000 people die from burns.
In the United राज्य, of those admitted to a बर्न center, approximately 4 % die from their injuries.
The long पद निष्कर्ष is primarily सम्बन्धित to the size of burn and the age of the person effected.
The Atlantic Ocean, नहीं सहित आर्कटिक and Antarctic regions
This video was लिया by the क्रू of expedition 29 on board the ISS.
The pass starts from just north-east of the Island of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड over the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर to सेंट्रल Africa, over South Sudan.
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the संसार 's oceanic divisions.
With a total area of about, it covers approximately 20 प्रतिशत of the धरती 's सतह और परिचय 29 प्रतिशत of its water surface area.
The first part of its name refers to Atlas of यूनानी mythology, बनाना the अटलांटिक the `` समुद्र of एटलस ''.
The oldest ज्ञात जिक्र of `` अटलांटिक '' is in the histories of हिरोडोटस around 450 bc ( hdt. 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( Greek : Ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; English : Sea of Atlas ).
The term Ethiopic Ocean, derived from Ethiopia, was लागू to the दक्षिणी अटलांटिक as लेट as the mid-19th century.
Before Europeans discovered other oceans, the term `` ocean '' itself was synonymous साथ the waters परे the जलसन्धि of जिब्राल्टर कि we अभी जान as the अटलांटिक.
The early Greeks believed this समंदर to be a gigantic नदी encircling the world.
The Atlantic समंदर occupies an elongated, s-shaped जलाशय extending longitudinally between यूरेशिया और अफ़्रीकी to the east, and the Americas to the west.
As one component of the interconnected global ocean, it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( जिससे is sometimes माना a समुद्र of the अटलांटिक ), to the प्रशांत समंदर in the दक्षिणपश्चिम, the भारतीय Ocean in the southeast, and the Southern Ocean in the south.
( Other definitions describe the अटलांटिक as extending southward to Antarctica. )
The equator subdivides it into the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर और दक्षिण अटलांटिक Ocean.
Due to their long-term persistence, and the need for a unique identifier in issuing forecasts and चेतावनियाँ, तीव्र cyclones और उपोष्ण cyclones हैं दिए names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ).
The following are lists from जिससे ये तीव्र और उपोष्ण चक्रवात names हैं derived.
White light is dispersed by a प्रिज़्म into the रंगों of the optical spectrum.
The visible spectrum is the portion of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम कि is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye.
इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण in इस दायरा of wavelengths is called visible light or simply light.
A typical human eye होगा respond to wavelengths इससे परिचय 390 to 700 nm.
In terms of आवृत्ति, इस corresponds to a बैंड in the vicinity of 430–790 THz.
A light-adapted eye generally has its maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ), in the ग्रीन region of the optical spectrum ( see : luminosity function ).
The spectrum does नहीं, however, contain सब the रंगों that the human eyes and brain can distinguish.
Unsaturated colors such as pink, or purple variations such as magenta, are absent, for example, क्युकी वे can be बना तभी by a मिक्सर of अनेक wavelengths.
Colors containing तभी एक wavelength हैं भी पुकारा pure colors.
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` ऑप्टिकल खिड़की ``, the प्रदेश of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere.
An example of इस घटना is कि साफ एयर scatters ब्लू light more than red wavelengths, and so the midday sky appears blue.
The optical window is also called the visible खिड़की क्युकी it overlaps the इंसान दृश्य जवाब spectrum.
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of the human vision, as well as the Medium wavelength ir ( mwir ) खिड़की और the long wavelength or दूर इन्फ्रारेड ( lwir or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them.
Many species can see light साथ बारंबारता बाहर the `` दृश्य वर्णक्रम, '' which is defined in terms of human vision.
Bees and many other कीट can detect पराबैंगनी लाइट, जिससे helps them find nectar in flowers.
Plant species that depend on insect pollination may owe reproductive success to their appearance in ultraviolet लाइट, बल्कि than कैसा रंगीन वे appear to इंसानो.
Birds, too, can see into the पराबैंगनी ( 300–400 nm ), और कुछ have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range.
Many पशु कि can देखिए into the पराबैंगनी दायरा, however, can नहीं see red light or any other reddish wavelengths.
मधुमक्खियों ' दृश्य वर्णक्रम ends at about 590nm, just before the orange wavelengths start.
Birds, however, can see some red wavelengths, लकिन नहीं as अनेक as इंसानो.
Zebras ( or ) हैं अनेक प्रजाति of अफ़्रीकी equids ( घोड़ा परिवार ) संयुक्त by their distinctive black and white stripes.
उनके धारियाँ आइये in अलग पैटर्न, unique to each individual.
They are generally सोशल पशु कि live in small harems to large herds.
Unlike their closest relatives, घोड़े और asses, zebras have never been truly domesticated.
There are तीन प्रजाति of zebras : the मैदान जेब्रा, the grévy 's zebra and the mountain zebra.
The plains zebra and the mountain जेब्रा belong to the subgenus hippotigris, लकिन Grévy 's zebra is the sole species of subgenus Dolichohippus.
The latter resembles an गधा, to जिससे it is closely सम्बन्धित, while the former two are more horse-like.
सब तीन belong to the genus equus, along with other living equids.
the अद्वितीय धारियाँ of zebras make them one of the animals most familiar to people.
They occur in a variety of habitats, such as grasslands, savannas, वुडलैंड्स, thorny scrublands, mountains, and coastal hills.
however, विभिन्न anthropogenic कारकों have था a कठोर प्रभाव on zebra populations, in particular hunting for skins and habitat destruction.
Grévy 's zebra and the पहाड़ जेब्रा हैं endangered.
While plains zebras are much more plentiful, one subspecies, the quagga, became extinct in the late 19th century – though there is currently a plan, called the Quagga Project, that aims to breed zebras that हैं phenotypically समान to the quagga in a प्रक्रम पुकारा प्रजनन back.
Barry श्वेत, born बैरी यूजीन कार्टर ( – ), थी an American composer and singer-songwriter.
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image, White 's greatest success came in the 1970s as a सोलो सिंगर और साथ the प्रेम असीमित ऑर्केस्ट्रा, crafting अनेक enduring आत्मा, दुर्गंध, और डिस्को गीतों ऐसे as उसके दो biggest हिट्स, `` तुम 're the First, the Last, My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your Love, Babe. ''
Along साथ इसहाक़ हेज़, श्वेत is माना by allmusic.com as a पायोनियर of disco music in the early 1970s.
During the course of his करियर in the म्यूज़िक कारोबार, श्वेत हासिल 106 सुनहरा एल्बम विश्वव्यापी, 41 of which also attained platinum status.
White had 20 सुनहरा और 10 प्लेटिनम singles, साथ worldwide sales in excess of 100 million, according to critics Ed Hogan and Wade Kergan.
उसके प्रभाव शामिल रेव. जेम्स क्लीवलैंड, रे चार्ल्स, Aretha Franklin plus Motown artists The Supremes, The Four Tops and Marvin Gaye.
Angelina Jolie (, born एंजेलीना जोली वोइट ; जून 4, 1975 ) is an American actress, film director, and screenwriter.
वो रै प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार, दो स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार, और three Golden Globe Awards, and was named Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011.
Jolie promotes humanitarian कल्याणकारी, और is विख्यात लिये उसके कार्य साथ शरणार्थियों as a खास Envoy and former Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ).
She has often been cited as the world 's `` most beautiful '' woman, a title for which she रै प्राप्त substantial मीडिया ध्यान.
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father Jon Voight in Lookin ' to Get Out ( 1982 ), but her film करियर began in सच्चाई a दशक बाद साथ the low-budget उत्पादन साइबोर्ग 2 ( 1993 ).
Her first leading role in a प्रमुख फिल्मी थी in the cyber-thriller हैकर्स ( 1995 ).
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television films George Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ), and won an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the नाटक लड़की, बाधित ( 1999 ).
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video खेल नायिका लारा क्रॉफ्ट in लारा क्रॉफ्ट : मकबरा रेडर ( 2001 ), और स्थापित herself among the highest-paid अभिनेत्रियों in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ).
She continued her action star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) and Wanted ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated commercial successes to date—and प्राप्त further नाजुक acclaim लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the dramas a mighty दिल ( 2007 ) और changeling ( 2008 ), जिससे अर्जित उसके a नामांकन लिये an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Actress.
Jolie made her directorial debut with the wartime नाटक in the जमीन of रक्त और मधु ( 2011 ).
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee मिलर और बिली bob थॉर्नटन, जोली अभी जीवनदान साथ कर्ता ब्रैड pitt, in a relationship notable for fervent media attention.
Jolie and Pitt have three biological children और तीन अपनाया children.
A natural arch उत्पादित by the अपरदन of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz, Jordan
Erosion is the process by which मृदा और चट्टान हैं removed इससे the धरती 's सतह by exogenetic processes such as wind or water flow, and then transported and deposited in other locations.
While erosion is a प्राकृतिक प्रक्रम, इंसान क्रियाएँ have increased by 10-40 times the rate at which erosion is occurring globally.
Excessive erosion causes problems such as desertification, decreases in agricultural उत्पादकता due to जमीन degradation, sedimentation of जलमार्गों, और ecological पतन due to घाटा of the nutrient rich upper soil layers.
Water and wind erosion are now the दो प्राथमिक कल्याणकारी of जमीन degradation ; संयुक्त, वे हैं जिम्मेदार लिये 84 % of degraded acreage, बनाना excessive erosion one of the most significant global environmental problems.
Industrial agriculture, deforestation, roads, anthropogenic climate change and urban sprawl हैं amongst the सबसे significant इंसान क्रियाएँ in लिहाज़ to their effect on stimulating erosion.
However, there are अनेक उपलब्धियाँ वैकल्पिक जमीन उपयोग practices कि can काटना or सीमा अपरदन, ऐसे as terrace -building, no-till agriculture, and revegetation of denuded soils.
जर्सी shore is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी जिससे भागा on एमटीवी इससे December 3, 2009 to December 20, 2012 in the United States.
The series follows the lives of eight housemates spending their गर्मियाँ at the जर्सी shore in the u.S. राज्य of नई जर्सी.
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast winter to Miami बीच, साथ ऋतु 3 returning to the Jersey Shore.
The fourth ऋतु, फिल्माया in इटली, premiered on August 4, 2011.
The show returned for a पांचवां ऋतु, at seaside हाइट्स on जनवरी 5, 2012.
The fifth season finale aired on कूच 15, 2012.
On March 19, 2012, एमटीवी पुष्टि कि the श्रेणी होता return for their sixth season.
On August 30, 2012, MTV announced that the series होगा समाप्त बाद the छठे ऋतु, जिससे premiered on October 4.
The series finale aired on December 20, 2012.
The show debuted amid large amounts of विवाद regarding the उपयोग of the शब्द `` guido / guidette, '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes, and scrutiny from locals because the cast members were not residents of the area.
The series garnered record दरजा लिये एमटीवी, बनाना it the संजाल 's सबसे viewed series telecast ever.
The series ' cast have भी महरूम credited साथ introducing अद्वितीय lexicon and phrases into American popular culture.
The University of शिकागो और the विश्वविद्यालयों of ओक्लाहोमा हैं among the educational institutions that have had classes or conferences about the show.
in 2010, the डाल of जर्सी shore थी named on Barbara Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People list, and the series has since been exported to dozens of countries worldwide.
There are several remakes of the show in other countries, with two नियत in the संयुक्त किंगडम ; the खूब ज्ञात geordie shore, नियत in Newcastle upon Tyne, England.
The other is The घाटियों, the वेल्श समतुल्य, जिससे is फिल्माया और नियत in Cardiff.
The only other official remake of the show is gandía shore, नियत in gandía, Spain.
सही
United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य, सहित सब waters ( around islands or continental tracts ) and all U.S. Naval vessels.
The United राज्य रै traditionally proclaimed the sovereign अधिकारों लिये exploring, exploiting, conserving, and managing its territory.
This extent of territory is सब the क्षेत्रफल belonging to, और अंतर्गत the डोमिनियन of, the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी ( जिससे शामिल tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative and other purposes.
The United States total territory शामिल a उपसमुच्चय of राजनैतिक विभाजन.
The U.S. सरकारी is a सरकारी साथ प्रतिनिधित्व शक्तियां under the United States Constitution.
`` The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the राज्य, हैं सुरक्षित to the राज्य क्रमशः, or to the लोगों '' by the Tenth Amendment.
टर्मिनेटर 3 : वृद्धि of the मशीने ( commonly abbreviated as t3 ) is a 2003 विज्ञान fiction कार्रवाई film directed by Jonathan Mostow and starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, Nick Stahl, Claire Danes and Kristanna Loken.
It is the दूसरी sequel to The Terminator ( 1984 ).
After Skynet fails to kill Sarah Connor before उसके बेटे is born और to मार जॉन खुद as a चाइल्ड, it भेजना वापस another टर्मिनेटर, the t-x, in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible.
This includes John 's भविष्य बीवी, लकिन नहीं जॉन खुद as उसके whereabouts are unknown to Skynet.
John 's life is placed in danger when the t-x accidentally पाता him.
A cord of लकडी
The cord is a unit of measure of dry volume प्रयुक्त in कनाडा और the संयुक्त राज्य to माप ईधन and pulpwood.
a cord is the राशि of लकडी कि, when `` ranked and well stowed '' ( arranged so pieces are aligned, parallel, touching and compact ), occupies a volume of.
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile ऊँची, long, और गहन ; or कोई अन्य व्यवस्था of linear measurements that yields the same volume.
The name cord probably comes from the उपयोग of a cord or स्ट्रिंग to measure it.
The, is an 8-bit हैंडहेल्ड वीडियो खेल यंत्र विकसित और manufactured by Nintendo.
It was released in जापानी on, in उत्तर अमेरिका in, and in Europe on.
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy line, and was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1 —the same staff who had designed the Game & देखें श्रेणी as खूब as अनेक लोकप्रिय खेल लिये the निन्टेंडो Entertainment System.
Redesigned संस्करण यहूद released in 1996 और 1998, in the रूप of खेल लड़के जेब, and Game Boy Light ( Japan only ), respectively.
the खेल लड़के is निन्टेंडो 's दूसरी हैंडहेल्ड प्रणाली following the खेल & देखें series introduced in, and it combined features from both the Nintendo Entertainment System and Game & Watch.
It थी originally bundled साथ the puzzle game Tetris.
As part of the चौथी पीढी of गेमिंग, the खेल लड़के competed साथ the Sega Game Gear, Atari Lynx, and the TurboExpress.
Despite these other technologically superior हैंडहेल्ड consoles, the खेल लड़के was a tremendous success.
The Game Boy and its successor, the Game Boy Color, have दोनो संयुक्त बेची 118.69 लाख इकाई विश्वव्यापी.
upon इसके रिलीज in the संयुक्त राज्य, it sold its entire shipment of one million units within weeks.
The World Trade Center is a complex of इमारतें अंतर्गत निर्माण in निम्नतर मैनहटन, नई यॉर्क नगर, संयुक्त राज्य, replacing an पहले जटिल of seven buildings with the same name on the same site.
the असली संसार व्यापार बीच प्रदर्शित लैंडमार्क जुड़वा मीनारें, which opened on April 4, 1973 and were destroyed in the September 11 attacks of 2001, along with 7 World Trade Center.
The other इमारतें in the जटिल यहूद क्षतिग्रस्त in the हमले, and their ruins were eventually demolished.
The site is being rebuilt with five नई skyscrapers और a मेमोरियल to those killed in the attacks.
, only one skyscraper has been completed ; the other four are अपेक्षित to be समाप्त पहले 2020.
One World Trade Center will be the सीसे भवन लिये the नई जटिल, reaching अधिक than 100 कहानियां at इसके completion.
It became the tallest भवन in नई यॉर्क नगर on April 30, 2012, and is expected to be finished by 2013.
A sixth tower is प्रतीक्षारत पुष्टि.
At the time of their completion, the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2 संसार व्यापार बीच ( the दक्षिण मीनार ), ज्ञात collectively as the `` जुड़वा मीनारें '', were the tallest buildings in the world.
The other buildings included 3 wtc ( the मैरियट संसार व्यापार बीच ), 4 wtc, 5 wtc, 6 WTC, and 7 WTC.
All of these buildings यहूद निर्मित between 1975 and 1985.
The cost for the construction was $ 400 लाख ( $ in डॉलर ).
The जटिल थी स्तिथ in the दिल of नई यॉर्क नगर 's शहर वित्तीय ज़िला और contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space.
The World व्यापार बीच अनुभवी a आग on, 1975, a bombing on, 1993 and a robbery on, 1998.
In 1998, the Port प्राधिकार decided to privatize the संसार व्यापार बीच, पट्टे the इमारतें to a निजी company to manage, and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in.
On the morning of September 11, 2001, Al-Qaeda -संबद्धd hijackers उड़ाया दो बोइंग 767 jets into the जटिल, एक into प्रत्येक मीनार, in a समन्वित terrorist attack.
After burning for 56 minutes, the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed, followed a half-hour later by the North मीनार ( 1 ), साथ the हमले on the संसार व्यापार बीच resulting in 2,753 deaths.
Falling debris from the towers, combined with fires that the मलबा initiated in अनेक surrounding इमारतें, led to the आंशिक or पूरा पतन of सब the other buildings in the complex and caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area.
The process of cleanup and recovery at the संसार व्यापार बीच साईट took आठ महीने.
Over the following सालो, योजनाएँ लिये a rebuilt संसार व्यापार बीच took form.
The first new building at the site was 7 World व्यापार बीच, जिससे खोली in.
The निम्नतर मैनहटन विकास निगम ( lmdc ), स्थापित in to oversee the rebuilding process, organized competitions to select a site plan and memorial design.
Memory Foundations, designed by Daniel Libeskind, was selected as the निपुण योजना, लकिन इस गई through substantial परिवर्तन in डिज़ाइन.
The new World Trade Center complex will include One World Trade Center, three अन्य high-rise दफ्तर मीनारें, और the नेशनल सितंबर 11 मेमोरियल & Museum.
San जिबरील kyu
सैन bernardino kyu, साथ mt. सैन gorgonio in the foreground and Big Bear Lake in the background.
The Transverse Ranges are a group of mountain सीमाएँ of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, in the प्रशांत coast Ranges physiographic region in North America.
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern end of the California Coast सीमाएँ और झूठ between सांता बारबरा और San Diego counties.
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to उनके east-west अभिविन्यास, बनाना उन्हें अनुप्रस्थ to the सामान्य north-south अभिविन्यास of most of California 's coastal mountains.
आवधिक तालिका साथ electron shells
An electron shell may be thought of as an orbit followed by electrons around an अणु 's केंद्रक.
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K shell '' ), followed by the `` 2 शेल '' ( or `` l शेल '' ), तब the `` 3 शेल '' ( or `` m शेल '' ), और so on दूर और दूर from the nucleus.
the शेल अक्षर k, l, m,..., used in the X-ray notation, are alphabetical.
प्रत्येक शेल can contain तभी a फिक्स्ड क्रमांक of electrons : the 1st शेल can थाम up to दो electrons, the 2nd shell can hold up to eight electrons, the 3rd shell can hold up to 18, and 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on.
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the केंद्रक, an अणु 's electrons होगा generally occupy बाहरी शेल तभी if the अधिक भीतरी शेल have already महरूम completely filled by other electrons.
However, this is नहीं a सख्त आवश्यकता : अणु may have दो or even three incomplete outer shells.
( See Madelung rule लिये अधिक विवरण. )
For an explanation of why electrons मौजूद in ये शेल देखिए इलेक्ट्रॉन configuration.
The electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or shells ) determine the रासायनिक गुण of the अणु ; it is पुकारा the valence shell.
Each shell consists of एक or अधिक subshells, और प्रत्येक subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals.
Vickie Lynn Marshall ( née होगन ; नवम्बर 28, 1967 – फ़रवरी 8, 2007 ), ज्ञात by उसके moniker anna निकोल स्मिथ, थी an अमरीकी model, actress, and television personality.
स्मिथ पहला gained लोकप्रियता in प्लेबॉय, becoming the 1993 Playmate of the Year.
वो modeled लिये कपडे companies, including Guess jeans and Lane Bryant.
Smith dropped out of high स्कूल और थी शादीशुदा in 1985.
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul, J. Howard Marshall, 62 years her वरिष्ठ, resulted in अटकलें कि वो शादीशुदा the octogenarian लिये his money, which she denied.
Following Marshall 's मौत, स्मिथ began a lengthy विधिक बैटल over a share of his estate.
Her case, Marshall v. Marshall, reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a question of federal jurisdiction, और again on a सवाल of दिवालियापन अदालत प्राधिकार ( अभी पुकारा stern v. Marshall ).
Smith died on February 8, 2007 in a हॉलीवुड, फ्लोरिडा होटल रूम as a परिणाम of an overdose of prescription drugs.
Within the फाइनल छह महीने of उसके जीवन, स्मिथ थी the फ़ोकस of a नवीनीकृत दबायें coverage surrounding the death of her son, Daniel, and the paternity and custody battle over her newborn daughter, Dannielynn.
The is one denomination of जापानी येन.
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters known as the `` new script ``, and were भी minted इससे 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' जापानी characters.
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( जब, due to the much उच्चतर मान of the येन, they were minted in gold ).
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing out of the water, with `` five yen '' written in kanji ; the वापस is stamped साथ `` जापानी '' और the साल of समस्या, भी in कांजी, अलग by sprouts of a tree.
The three graphic elements of the coin represent कृषि और fisheries, the कुंजी तत्व of the जापानी first-sector economy.
Around a hole, there is a गियर कि represents उद्योग.
It is the only Japanese coin in circulation to कमी अरबी numerals on either फेस.
TLC is an American लड़की समूह जिनकी रंगमंडल spanned r & b, हिप हॉप, आत्मा, funk, and new jack swing.
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` t-boz '' वाटकिंस, rapper लिसा `` बाएँ नजर '' lopes और सिंगर rozonda `` chilli '' थामस, the समूह found unprecedented success in the 1990s while also enduring a series of spats with the law, each other, and the group 's record label.
Initially, TLC achieved वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी following the रिलीज of their debut album Ooooooohhh...
on the tlc टिप, जिससे sold 6 million copies worldwide.
However, it was their दूसरी एल्बम, crazysexycool, कि catapulted the समूह to superstar status.
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond by the riaa — a पहला लिये a मादा समूह, और आखिरकार बेची 23 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी.
Five years later, the group released their third album FanMail, जिससे became the समूह 's पहला एल्बम to डेब्यू at क्रमांक एक and sold more than 11 million copies worldwide.
The subsequent tour following FanMails release became the उच्चतम grossing दौरे of सब समय by a मादा band.
In 2002, Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes died in a car दुर्घटना in Honduras.
Seven months later, T-Boz and Chilli released the समूह 's चौथी एल्बम 3d, जिससे बेची 2 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी, it प्रदर्शित unreleased vocals from Left Eye.
Billboard magazine क्रमित tlc as एक of the महानतम musical trios.
between 1992 और 2003, the बैंड संचित टेन शीर्ष टेन singles, four number one singles, four multi-platinum albums, and four Grammy Awards.
At the end of 1999, TLC थी क्रमित as the सातवाँ सबसे कामयाब अधिनियम of the 1990s by Billboard.
In 2008, the group was inducted into the सब समय hot 100 कलाकार हॉल of कीर्ति by the same magazine, at 56th place.
That year it was also listed as the # 25 r & b/hip-hop कलाकार of the preceding 25 सालो.
TLC has sold more than 65 million records worldwide and they are क्रमित as the दूसरी बेहतरीन selling मादा समूह of सब समय, और the बेहतरीन selling मादा R & B group of all time.
In 2012, TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 महानतम महिलाओं in म्यूज़िक, होने क्रमित the number one all girl group on that list.
Tarzan is a 1999 अमरीकी एनिमेटेड एडवेंचर फिल्मी उत्पादित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी विशेषता Animation and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics, it is based on the story Tarzan of the Apes by Edgar Rice Burroughs, और is the तभी प्रमुख गति चित्र संस्करण of the स्टोरी टार्ज़न प्रॉपर्टी to be animated.
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima with a screenplay by Tab Murphy, Bob Tzudiker, and Noni White, Tarzan सुविधाएँ the आवाज़ें of टोनी goldwyn, minnie ड्राइवर, ग्लेन बंद, और रोजी o'donnell with Brian Blessed, Lance Henriksen, Wayne Knight, and Nigel Hawthorne.
It was the last bona fide hit पहले the डिज़्नी slump of the जल्दी 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically और $ 448,191,819 worldwide, outgrossing its predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ).
At the time of इसके रिलीज, इसके उत्पादन बजट of $ 130 लाख बना it the सबसे महंगी एनिमेटेड film ever made, until topped by Disney 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002.
It was भी the पहला डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड विशेषता to open at # 1 since Pocahontas.
This was the last major box office कामयाबी of the डिज़्नी पुनर्जागरण.
Oil Platform P-51 off the Brazilian coast is a semi-submersible मंच.
Oil मंच mittelplate in the North sea
An oil platform, ( offshore platform or colloquially oil rig ) is a large structure with facilities to ड्रिल कुएं, to निकालें और प्रक्रम आयल और प्राकृतिक गैस, और to temporarily स्टोर उत्पाद until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing.
In many cases, the मंच contains सुविधाएं to हाउस the workforce as well.
Depending on the circumstances, the platform may be fixed to the ocean floor, may consist of an कृत्रिम द्वीप, or may float.
Remote subsea कुएं may भी be कनेक्ट to a मंच by प्रवाह लाइनों और by umbilical connections.
These subsea solutions may consist of one or अधिक subsea कुएं, or of एक or अधिक manifold centres for multiple wells.
Slaughter is the हत्या of पशु, प्रायः that of domestic livestock for food.
The animals most commonly slaughtered लिये खाना हैं चौपायों, जल भैंस ( लिये बीफ और वील ), शीप, बकरियों ( लिये मेमने and mutton ), pigs ( for pork ), horses ( for horse meat ), and fowl, largely chickens, turkeys, and ducks and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ).
The White House, the अध्यक्ष 's आधिकारिक निवास and center of the administration
Under the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य is the head of state and head of government of the United States.
As chief of the executive शाखा और सिर of the संघीय सरकारी as a पूरे, the प्रेसिडेंसी is the उच्चतम राजनैतिक दफ्तर in the United States by influence and recognition.
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त States Armed Forces.
the अध्यक्ष is indirectly निर्वाचित to a four-year पद by an चुनावी कॉलेज ( or by the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि should the Electoral College fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ).
Since the ratification of the twenty-second amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान in 1951, no व्यक्ति may be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष अधिक than twice, and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once.
Upon the death, resignation, or removal from office of an लाज़िम अध्यक्ष, the वाइस अध्यक्ष assumes the दफ्तर.
The अध्यक्ष जरूर be at तनिक 35 सालो of आयु और a `` प्राकृतिक born '' citizen of the United States.
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into दफ्तर as अध्यक्ष following the अनुसमर्थन of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, which took effect on March 4, 1789.
For अमरीकी नेताओ पहले इस अनुसमर्थन, see President of the Continental Congress.
The list does not include कोई एक्टिंग राष्ट्रपतियों अंतर्गत the twenty-fifth amendment to the संयुक्त States Constitution.
There have been 43 people sworn into office, and 44 presidencies, as ग्रोवर क्लीवलैंड परोसा two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president.
Of the individuals elected as president, four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison, Zachary Taylor, Warren G. Harding, and फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट ), चार यहूद assassinated ( अब्राहम lincoln, जेम्स A. गारफ़ील्ड, विलियम mckinley, और जॉन F. कैनेडी ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ).
George Washington, the first अध्यक्ष, थी उदघाटन in 1789 बाद a सर्वसम्मत vote of the Electoral College.
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in दफ्तर साथ 32 दिनों in 1841, और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट खर्च the longest साथ over twelve years, but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945.
He is the only president to serve more than two terms, and a constitutional amendment, affecting राष्ट्रपतियों बाद हैरी ट्रूमैन, थी passed to सीमा the क्रमांक of टाइम्स an individual can be elected president.
Andrew Jackson, the seventh president, was the first to be निर्वाचित by मेन of सब वर्ग in 1828 बाद सबसे laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed.
वारेन हार्डिंग थी the पहला निर्वाचित बाद women gained voting rights in 1920.
History records four presidents – John Q Adams, रदरफोर्ड B. हेज़, बेंजामिन हैरिसन और जार्ज W. Bush – who lost the popular vote but assumed office.
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith, and the current president, Barack Obama, is the पहला अध्यक्ष of African descent.
Several firearms with detachable suppressors, from शीर्ष to नीचे : an uzi, an ar-15, A Heckler & Koch USP Tactical, A Beretta 92FS, and a SIG Mosquito.
bolt कार्रवाई rimfire राइफल with suppressor
AWM-F sniper राइफल साथ संलग्न suppressor.
A suppressor, sound suppressor, or sound moderator, is a device attached to or part of the बैरल of a firearm जिससे reduces the राशि of रव, और प्रायः the राशि of muzzle flash, generated by firing the weapon.
A suppressor can be प्रयुक्त दोनो साथ a firearm और साथ संपीडित air gun.
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer, this term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the ध्वनि of a प्रक्षेप्य, विशेषकर one moving faster than the speed of sound, through the air can not be eliminated.
Using a suppressor in long अलहदा शूटिंग ( i.e. वृहद than 300 मीटर ) can lessen, or retard, the report at the moment of impact, and create the impression of silence near the target.
The रव सुना निकट the muzzle as a प्रक्षेप्य पत्ते the बैरल, though subdued, is not silent at all.
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the ध्वनि of फायरिंग by slowing the escaping propellant गैस और sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet.
Early suppressors were created around the beginning of the 20th सदी by अनेक आविष्कारक.
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens Maxim, Hiram Percy 's father, and the inventor of the कहावत यंत्र गन ), is credited साथ inventing और selling the पहला commercially कामयाब मॉडल circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ).
Maxim gave his device the trademarked नाम कहावत silencer.
The muffler for internal combustion engines was developed in parallel with the firearm suppressor by कहावत in the जल्दी 20th सदी, using अनेक of the वही तकनीकों to provide quieter-running engines ( in many European countries automobile mufflers are still called silencers ).
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in फैली उपयोग, हालांकि it रै चूंकि गिरे आउट of एहसान साथ कुछ, विशेषकर among the firearms उद्योग, होने replaced साथ the अधिक वस्तुतः सटीक पद ध्वनि suppressor or बस suppressor, because a `` sound suppressor '' does not `` silence '' any weapon, rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging.
Common उपयोग और u.S. विधान भाषा एहसान the historically earlier term, silencer.
In U.S. law, the terms `` firearm मफलर '' और `` firearm silencer '' हैं synonymous.
suppressors यहूद regularly प्रयुक्त by एजेंटों of the संयुक्त राज्य दफ्तर of रणनीतिक सेवाएं, जो favored the newly designed High Standard HDM.22 Long Rifle pistol during World War II.
oss निदेशक विलियम जोसेफ `` जंगली विधेयक '' डोनोवन demonstrated the pistol for President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the White House.
According to OSS शोध मुख्य स्टेनली लोवेल, डोनोवन ( an बूढ़ा और विश्वसनीय dost of the अध्यक्ष ) was waved into the Oval Office, where Roosevelt was dictating a letter.
जबकि रूज़वेल्ट समाप्त उसके संदेश, डोनोवन turned उसके वापस और fired टेन गोलियाँ into a sandbag he had brought with him, announced what he had done and handed the smoking gun to the astonished president.
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod हत्या पिस्टल साथ an अभिन्न suppressor थी भी प्रयुक्त by the अमरीकी OSS on clandestine operations in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second World War.
Beatrice `` Bea '' Arthur ( May 13, 1922 – April 25, 2009 ) थी an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, comedienne, और सिंगर जिनकी करियर spanned seven decades.
Arthur achieved fame as the character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms सब in the परिवार और maude, और as डोरोथी zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls, winning Emmy Awards for both roles.
A stage अभिनेत्री दोनो पहले और बाद उसके टेलीविज़न कामयाबी, वो जीती the टोनी पुरस्कार लिये Best Featured Actress in a Musical for her performance as Vera Charles in the original cast of Mame ( 1966 ).
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the Tekken video game series, produced by Digital Frontier and वितरित by asmik इक्का entertainment in संघ साथ बंदाई entertainment.
The film premiered in North America by Bandai Entertainment on July 26, 2011, and in ऑस्ट्रेलिया on जुलाई 27, 2011 in a खास exclusive one-off screening.
It was released on सितंबर 3, 2011 in Japan.
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on November 22, 2011 लिये यूएसए, और दिसम्बर 1, 2011 लिये जापानी.
This film was also released on dvd on नवम्बर 22, 2011 ( 2d संस्करण only ).
The film थी additionally शामिल साथ the प्लेस्टेशन 3 खेल, tekken संकर, और the Nintendo 3DS title, Tekken 3D : Prime Edition.
For a discussion of nonprofit, voluntary neighborhood वकालत समूह, देखिए पड़ोस संघ.
In the United States, a homeowner संघ is a निगम formed by a रियल एस्टेट डेवलपर लिये the purpose of विपणन, मैनेजिंग, and selling of homes and lots in a residential subdivision.
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the association, while allowing the developer to exit financial and legal responsibility of the organization, typically by transferring स्वामित्व of the संघ to the homeowners after selling off a predetermined number of lots.
Membership in the homeowners association by a residential buyer is typically a कंडीशन of खरीदें ; a खरीदार is n't दिए an विकल्प to अस्वीकृत it.
Most homeowner associations are incorporated, and हैं विषय to राज्य statutes कि govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations.
State oversight of homeowner associations is minimal, and mainly takes the रूप of कानून जिससे हैं असंगत इससे state to state.
Some राज्य, ऐसे as फ्लोरिडा और कैलिफ़ोर्निया, have a विशाल देह of homeowner संघ law, and some states, such as Massachusetts, have virtually no homeowner association law.
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest developments ( cids ), a श्रेणी कि शामिल planned-unit developments of single-family homes, condominiums, and cooperative apartments.
Since 1964, homeowner associations have become increasingly आम in the यूएसए.
The Community Associations Institute trade association अनुमानित कि hoas governed 24.8 लाख अमरीकी घरों और 62 लाख residents in 2010.
A prize-winning lilac-and-white silkie
There are many breeds of गिनी सुअर जिससे have महरूम विकसित चूंकि इसके domestication ca. 5000 BC.
Breeds vary widely in appearance and purpose, ranging इससे दिखाएँ breeds साथ long, बहती बाल to those in उपयोग as model organisms by science.
From ca. 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca साम्राज्य in 1532, चयनात्मक प्रजनन by स्वदेशी दक्षिण अमरीकी peoples resulted in अनेक किस्में of घरेलू गिनी pigs, which form the basis for some of the modern domestic breeds.
Early Andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural भण्डार लिये खाना, और प्रयत्न at improving the गिनी सुअर as a खाना source continue to the modern era.
With the export of गिनी सूअर to यूरोपीय in the 15th सदी, the लक्ष्य in प्रजनन shifted to focus on the development of appealing pets.
To this end, various प्रतिस्पर्धी प्रजनन संगठन यहूद संस्थापित by fanciers.
The American Cavy Breeders Association, an adjunct to the American Rabbit Breeders Association, is the शासी देह in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा.
the अंग्रेजों cavy परिषद governs cavy clubs in the United Kingdom.
Similar organizations exist in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( ऑस्ट्रेलियाई नेशनल cavy परिषद ) और New Zealand ( New Zealand Cavy Club ).
Each club publishes its own Standard of Perfection and determines जिससे breeds हैं योग्य for showing.
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st सदी.
Though there हैं अनेक breeds of गिनी सुअर, तभी a few breeds हैं commonly found on the show table as pets.
Most Guinea pigs found as pets were either मिला अवांछनीय by प्रजनक or यहूद करवाया to be सुखद पालतु regardless of how well they meet the breed standard of perfection.
The छोटी बाल, abyssinian, peruvian और sheltie ( उर्फ silkie ) breeds हैं those सबसे अक्सर देखी as पालतु, और the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs.
In addition to their मानक रूप, nearly सब breeds आइये in a Satin variant.
Satins, due to their खोखला बाल shafts, possess coats of a खास gloss and shine.
However, there is growing evidence कि the जीनों जिम्मेदार लिये the साटन कोट भी can कारण कठोर bone problems, including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease.
प्रर्दशित साटन विसंगतियाँ is निषिद्ध by some cavy breeders ' associations because of animal welfare reasons.
All cavy breeds have some shared general standards : the head profile should be rounded, साथ विशाल आँखें और विशाल, smooth ears.
the देह चाहिए be strong and of compact build.
Coat colour should in all variations be clearly पारिभाषित और thorough इससे रूट to tip.
These standards are best met by long established, commonly करवाया breeds, as उनके प्रजनक have था पर्याप्त समय और पशु to effectively breed for these qualities.
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely मिले by अन्य than the चिकना coated breeds, जिससे have था खूब स्थापित, पृथक प्रजनन लाइनों लिये अलग रंग.
State schools ( also known as public schools or government schools ) generally refer to primary or secondary schools mandated लिये or offered to सब children बगैर चार्ज सशुल्क लिये, in पूरे or in भाग, by taxation.
The term may भी refer to संस्थानों of post-secondary शिक्षा वित्तपोषित, in पूरे or in part, and overseen by government.
The ribosome assembles polymeric प्रोटीन अणुओं जिनकी अनुक्रम is नियंत्रित by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules.
इस is जरूरी by all living cells and associated viruses.
The ribosome ( इससे ribonucleic एसिड और the यूनानी सोम, अर्थ `` देह '' ) is a विशाल और complex molecular machine, found within all living cells, that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ).
Ribosomes link amino acids together in the अनुक्रम निर्दिष्ट by मेसेंजर rna ( mRNA ) molecules.
Ribosomes consist of two major subunits—the small ribosomal subunit reads the mrna, जबकि the विशाल subunit joins अमीनो acids to form a polypeptide chain.
Each subunit is रचित of एक or अधिक ribosomal rna ( rrna ) molecules and a variety of proteins.
The sequence of डीएनए एन्कोडिंग लिये a प्रोटीन may be कॉपी अनेक टाइम्स into मेसेंजर rna ( mRNA ) chains of a similar sequence.
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA chain और उपयोग it as a टेम्पलेट लिये determining the सही अनुक्रम of अमीनो acids in a particular protein.
Amino acids are selected, collected and carried to the राइबोसोम by ट्रांसफ़र rna ( trna अणुओं ), जिससे enter one part of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain.
The attached अमीनो acids हैं तब linked साथ by another part of the ribosome.
Once the protein is produced, it can then 'fold ' to produce a विशिष्ट कार्यात्मक three-dimensional ढांचा.
A ribosome is made from complexes of RNAs and proteins और is इसलिए a ribonucleoprotein.
Each राइबोसोम is विभाजित into दो subunits : the छोटी subunit binds to the mRNA pattern, while the larger subunit binds to the tRNA and the amino acids.
When a ribosome finishes पढना an mrna अणु, these two subunits split apart.
ribosomes हैं ribozymes, क्युकी the catalytic peptidyl transferase activity that links amino acids together is performed by the ribosomal RNA.
ribosomes इससे जीवाणु, आर्किया और eukaryotes ( the तीन domains of life on Earth ) differ in their size, sequence, structure, and the ratio of protein to RNA.
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to kill जीवाणु by inhibiting उनके ribosomes, जबकि leaving इंसान ribosomes unaffected.
In bacteria and archaea, more than one ribosome may move साथ a सिंगल mrna कड़ी at एक समय, प्रत्येक `` reading '' its sequence and producing a corresponding protein molecule.
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic कोशिकाएं functionally resemble अनेक सुविधाएँ of those in जीवाणु, reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria.
Albert Claude, Christian de Duve, and George Emil palade यहूद jointly awarded the नोबेल पुरस्कार in physiology or आयुर्विज्ञान, in 1974, लिये the डिस्कवरी of the ribosomes.
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 was awarded to venkatraman रामकृष्णन, थामस A. steitz और एडीए E. yonath लिये determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome.
The सरलीकृत आतंरिक structure of a chloroplast
Overview of the calvin साईकिल और carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions कि बदलें कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड और अन्य यौगिकों into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled क्षेत्रफल of a हरितलवक बाहर of the thylakoid membranes.
These reactions take the light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ और perform further chemical processes on them.
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions, collectively called the Calvin साईकिल : कार्बन fixation, कटौती प्रतिक्रियाएँ, और ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite इसके नाम, इस प्रक्रम occurs तभी when light is available.
Plants do नहीं carry आउट the Calvin cycle by night.
They, बजाय, रिलीज sucrose into the phloem from their starch reserves.
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation, C4 carbon fixation, और crassulacean एसिड चयापचय ) ; कैम पौधे स्टोर malic एसिड in उनके vacuoles प्रत्येक रात्रि और रिलीज it by दिन in अनुक्रम to मेक इस प्रक्रम कार्य.
In mathematics, a square number or perfect वर्गाकार is an पूर्णांक कि is the वर्गाकार of an integer ; in other words, it is the product of some integer with itself.
For example, 9 is a square क्रमांक, चूंकि it can be लिखा as.
The usual notation for the formula for the square of a number is not the उत्पाद, लकिन the समतुल्य घातांक, प्रायः सुनाया as `` squared ''.
The name square क्रमांक आता इससे the नाम of the shape ; see below.
Square numbers are non-negative.
Another way of saying that a ( non-negative ) क्रमांक is a वर्गाकार क्रमांक, is कि इसके square roots are again integers.
For example, = ±3, so 9 is a वर्गाकार क्रमांक.
A positive integer that has no perfect square divisors मगर 1 is पुकारा square-free.
For a non-negative पूर्णांक, the th वर्गाकार क्रमांक is, with being the zeroth square.
The concept of square can be विस्तारित to कुछ अन्य क्रमांक systems.
If rational numbers are included, then a square is the ratio of two square integers, and, conversely, the ratio of two square integers is a वर्गाकार ( e.g., 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ).
starting साथ 1, वहीँ हैं वर्गाकार संख्याएँ up to और सहित, जहाँ the अभिव्यक्ति represents the floor of the number.
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the political इतिहास of the संयुक्त राज्य कि reflected a भाव of नेशनल purpose और a ख्वाहिश लिये एकता among अमेरिकी in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars.
The era saw the collapse of the Federalist Party और an समाप्त to the कड़वा दलगत विवादों between it और the प्रबल democratic-republican party during the First Party System.
President James Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan affiliation in making his nominations, with the परम लक्ष्य of नेशनल एकता और eliminating पार्टियों altogether इससे नेशनल राजनीती.
The काल is so closely संबद्ध साथ मुनरो 's प्रेसिडेंसी ( 1817–1825 ) and his administrative goals that his name and the era are virtually synonymous.
The Era of Good जज्बात चिह्नित a परिवर्तन in अमरीकी राजनीती साथ the समाप्त of the federalist Party as America began to develop after the War of 1812.
While America was experiencing growth and prosperity after the war साथ ब्रिटेन, इस era भी marks the पहला उदाहरण of आर्थिक परेशानियों in the growing संयुक्त राज्य.
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay, सुरक्षात्मक tariffs और the chartering of the दूसरी बैंको of the संयुक्त राज्य complicated the tension between the North and South with the coming of the first financial crisis.
While the term “Era of शुभ feelings” is प्रायः viewed साथ विडंबना क्युकी of the political turmoil, economic factors caused animosity between the North and South.
The designation of the period by historians as one of “good feelings” is often conveyed with irony or skepticism, as the history of the era was one in which the political atmosphere was strained और divisive, विशेषकर among गिरोहों भीतर the मुनरो प्रशासन और the रिपब्लिकन Party.
The phrase “Era of Good Feelings” was coined by Benjamin Russell, in the बोस्टन federalist समाचारपत्र, columbian centinel, on जुलाई 12, 1817, following मुनरो 's विज़िट to Boston, Massachusetts as part of his good will tour of America.
Mariel Margaret `` Mia '' Hamm ( born कूच 17, 1972 ) is a रिटायर्ड अमरीकी professional soccer player.
Hamm played अनेक सालो as a आगे लिये the संयुक्त राज्य महिलाओं 's national soccer team and was a founding member of the Washington Freedom.
Hamm scored 158 अंतरराष्ट्रीय लक्ष्य, अधिक than कोई अन्य खिलाड़ी, पुरूष or मादा, in the इतिहास of सॉकर और is the तीसरा सबसे capped मादा खिलाड़ी in soccer history behind Kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone, appearing in 275 international matches.
Hamm was named the women 's फीफा संसार खिलाड़ी of the साल the पहला दो टाइम्स कि पुरस्कार थी दिए ( in 2001 और 2002 ), और is सूचीबद्ध as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players ( as chosen by Pelé ).
She was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of कीर्ति as खूब as the अलबामा खेल हॉल of कीर्ति and Texas Sports Hall of Fame.
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer and Life और appeared in the एचबीओ वृत्तचित्र हिम्मत to सपना : the स्टोरी of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team.
Washington Post columnist माइकल wilbon पुकारा hamm, `` शायद the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण खिलाड़ी of the last 15 years. ''
Hamm takes a कोने kick.
The New York Red Bulls is an अमरीकी पेशेवर सॉकर टोली आधारित in हैरिसन, नई जर्सी, representing the New York metropolitan area.
The team competes in the पूर्वी सम्मेलन of प्रमुख League Soccer ( MLS ).
It is one of the ten charter clubs of mls, having competed in the लीग चूंकि its inception.
The team was a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ), but has गए through अनेक नाम परिवर्तन.
The team was originally ज्ञात as the New York/New Jersey MetroStars through 1997.
From the 1998 season through the 2005 ऋतु, the टोली थी ज्ञात as the metrostars.
On March 9, 2006, the टोली थी बेची to रेड सांड gmbh, अग्रणी to the team 's current name.
They are the only original MLS मताधिकार नहीं to have जीती कोई significant ट्रॉफी ( सहित नियमित season, playoffs, and knockout competition ) since inception.
The team 's best result in the MLS थी the mls कप फाइनल in 2008.
In the US Open Cup, the MetroStars पहुँचे तीन semifinals ( 1997, 1998, 2000 ), पहले reaching उनके पहला final in 2003, losing 1–0 to the Chicago Fire.
On अगस्त 26, 2000, the metros ' क्लिंट mathis नियत an mls रिकार्ड by स्कोरिंग five goals in a game against the Dallas Burn.
Some well-known players that have निभाई लिये the टोली शामिल giovanni savarese, टिम हावर्ड, टोनी meola, tab ramos, alexi lalas, क्लिंट mathis, jozy altidore, माइकल ब्राडली, क्लाउडियो reyna, एडी पोप, Roberto Donadoni, Lothar Matthäus, Adolfo Valencia, Youri Djorkaeff, Amado Guevara, Juan Pablo Ángel, Thierry Henry, Juninho Pernambucano, Jan Gunnar Solli, Rafael Márquez, and Tim Cahill.
The team has also था well-known कोच, सहित कार्लोस queiroz, कार्लोस अल्बर्टो parreira, बोरा Milutinović, Bob Bradley, Mo Johnston, Bruce Arena and Hans Backe.
confucianism, taoism, और buddhism हैं एक, a पेंटिंग in the litang style portraying three men laughing by a river stream, 12th century, Song Dynasty.
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the संसार, or in अनेक देशों, is मुश्किल due to definitional issues as well as practical problems of enumeration.
To begin with, the religious beliefs, practices, and identities of East Asians ( who comprise the majority of the world 's Buddhists by कोई माप ) प्रायः मिश्रण buddhism साथ अन्य परंपराओं सहित confucianism, the चाइनीज लोक धर्म, Daoism, Shinto, and Korean shamanism.
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations, or observe a definite ritual of adherence such as लेने शरण, बनाना it मुश्किल to accurately अनुमान the क्रमांक of practitioners.
An अतिरिक्त चुनौती is the दुश्मनी of अनेक नेशनल सरकारें ( often Communist ones such as China or North Korea ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically.
Government policies in these countries may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of धार्मिक adherence, resulting in आधिकारिक योग कि may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries.
अनुमान of the विश्वव्यापी बौद्ध जनसांख्यिकी दायरा इससे 350 लाख to over one billion, but cluster nearer to the first figure.
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a फिगर of 397 million.
By प्रमुख शाखाओं, the संख्याएँ are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism, including East Asian Buddhism, with no fewer than 185 लाख adherents, और संभवतः अनेक टाइम्स कि अनेक ( again, depending on definitional issues ).
This is the predominant रूप of buddhism practiced in चीन, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, and Vietnam.
( 2 ) Theravada buddhism, साथ no कम than 125 million adherents.
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in कंबोडिया, थाईलैंड, लाओस, श्री लंका, and Burma.
( 3 ) वज्रयान buddhism, साथ लगभग 20 million adherents.
This form predominates in the वृहद तिब्बती और Mongolian regions, as well as in the Himalayas.
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan, and विभिन्न territories भीतर कया is अभी पश्चिमी चीन, वज्रयान is परंपरागत to निश्चित regions of Russia ( e.g. Kalmykia, Buryatia ), India ( e.g. Ladakh, Sikkim ), and Nepal ( e.g. Khumbu ).
वज्रयान, भी ज्ञात as तिब्बती buddhism, is प्रायः conflated साथ तांत्रिक buddhism, but this is imprecise, as Shingon and other forms of East Asian Buddhism also practice tantra.
At least 7 देशों ( श्री लंका, थाईलैंड, कंबोडिया, लाओस, Burma, Bhutan, and Mongolia ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities.
Depending on how one calculates चाइनीज और अन्य ईस्ट एशियाई adherents, इस फिगर might expand to include several more countries.
In addition, Buddhism is the state religion of Cambodia and भूटान, और receives prominent जिक्र in the constitutions of थाईलैंड and Sri Lanka.
In उत्तरी इण्डिया और नेपाल, the जमीन जहाँ buddhism थी born, the धर्म severely declined during the first millennium.
Whether इस मनाही थी due to the इस्लामी conquest of उत्तरी इण्डिया, or to other factors, remains controversial.
See the आलेख मनाही of buddhism in India.
James Butler Hickok ( May 27, 1837 – August 2, 1876 ), बेहतर ज्ञात as जंगली विधेयक hickok, थी a लोक hero of the American Old West.
His skills as a gunfighter and scout, along with his reputation as a lawman, provided the आधार लिये उसके कीर्ति, हालांकि कुछ of उसके reported कारनामे हैं fictionalized.
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois, Hickok गई वेस्ट at आयु 18 as a भगोड़े इससे इंसाफ, पहला working as a stagecoach ड्राइवर, पहले he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska.
He लड़ा लिये the संघ फौज दौरान the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध, और gained publicity after the war as a scout, marksman, actor, and professional gambler.
Between his law-enforcement duties and gambling, which easily overlapped, hickok थी शामिल in अनेक notable shootouts.
He was shot and killed while playing पोकर in the nuttal & मन 's सैलून in deadwood, Dakota Territory ( now South Dakota ).
Artist 's conception of the Curiosity rover vaporizing चट्टान on मंगल.
The rover landed on मंगल in अगस्त 2012.
A Mars रोवर is an स्वचालित मोटर गाडी जिससे propels itself across the surface of the planet Mars after landing.
Rovers have several लाभ over stationary landers : वे जाँचें अधिक territory, वे can be निर्देशित to दिलचस्प सुविधाएँ, वे can प्लेस themselves in sunny positions to weather winter months and they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very remote robotic vehicle control.
वहीँ have महरूम चार कामयाब robotically operated Mars rovers.
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory प्रबंधित the मंगल pathfinder मिशन और इसके अभी निष्क्रिय Sojourner rover.
It फिलहाल manages the मंगल खोजी रोवर मिशन 's क्रियाशील अवसर rover and inactive Spirit, and, as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission, the Curiosity rover.
A वित्तीय ऑडिट, or अधिक accurately, an ऑडिट of वित्तीय statements, is the verification of the financial statements of a legal entity, with a view to express an audit opinion.
The audit opinion is intended to provide उचित परख, लकिन नहीं निरपेक्ष परख, कि the वित्तीय कथन हैं प्रस्तुत fairly, in all material respects, and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework.
The purpose of an ऑडिट is provide और उद्देश्य स्वतंत्र परिक्षा of the वित्तीय कथन, जिससे increases the मान और विश्वसनीयता of the वित्तीय कथन उत्पादित by management, thus increase user confidence in the financial statement, reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost of capital of the preparer of the financial statements.
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing लेखपाल जो हैं विशेषज्ञ in वित्तीय रिपोर्टिंग.
The financial audit is one of अनेक परख कृत्यों provided by accounting firms.
Many organizations separately employ or hire आतंरिक auditors, जो do नहीं attest to वित्तीय रिपोर्ट्स लकिन फ़ोकस मुख्यतः on the internal controls of the organization.
External auditors may choose to place सीमित रिलायंस on the कार्य of आतंरिक auditors.
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures बना by an संगठन, इसलिए होता संभावित to reduce of ऐसे corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings.
Internationally, the International Standards on Auditing ( ISA ) जारी by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय auditing और परख मानकों फलक ( iaasb ) is माना as the benchmark for audit process.
Almost all jurisdictions आवश्यकता auditors to follow the isa or a लोकल विभिन्नता of the ISA.
Dollar coins have been minted in the संयुक्त राज्य in सुनहरा, चांदी, and base metal versions.
The term silver dollar is often used for any large white metal coin issued by the United States साथ a फेस मान of एक डालर, हालांकि purists जिद कि a डालर is नहीं चांदी unless it contains some of that metal.
Silver डॉलर, the पहला डालर सिक्का समस्या, were minted beginning in 1794.
सुनहरा डॉलर और gold-colored डॉलर have also been produced by the United States.
The Sacagawea and अध्यक्षीय डॉलर हैं प्रायः referred to as `` golden dollars ''.
In modern टाइम्स, डालर सिक्के have नहीं been very popular in the United States.
Despite efforts by the government to प्रचार उनके उपयोग, सबसे अमेरिकी फिलहाल उपयोग the एक डालर विधेयक बल्कि than dollar coins.
In straight and level flight लिफ्ट ( l ) बराबरी वज़न ( w ).
in a banked फेरे of 60°, लिफ्ट equals double the weight ( L=2W ).
The पायलट अनुभवों 2g और a doubled weight.
The steeper the bank, the वृहद the g-forces.
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate इससे शून्य to in 0.86 seconds.
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. Combined with the vertical g-force in the stationary मामला the pythagorean प्रमेय yields a g force of 5.4 g.
g-force ( साथ g इससे गुरुत्वाकर्षक ) is a पद for accelerations felt as weight and measurable by accelerometers.
it is नहीं a फ़ोर्स, प्रति se, but a force per unit mass.
Since such a force is perceived as a weight, any g-force can be वर्णित as a `` वज़न प्रति ईकाई द्रव्यमान '' ( देखिए the पर्याय विशिष्ट weight ).
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every unit of an object 's mass, and ( save for certain electromagnetic force प्रभाव ) is the कारण of an ऑब्जेक्ट 's त्वरण in संबंध to free-fall.
This त्वरण अनुभवी by an ऑब्जेक्ट is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move.
The accelerations that are not produced by gravity are termed उचित accelerations, और it is तभी ये कि हैं measured in g-force इकाई.
वे कारण तनावों और strains on objects.
क्युकी of ये strains, विशाल g-forces may be destructive.
Gravitation acting alone does not उपज a g-force, भी हालांकि g-forces हैं expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity.
यूँ, the मानक गुरुत्वाकर्षक त्वरण at the धरती 's सतह produces g-force तभी indirectly, as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces.
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the Earth 's surface is caused by mechanical फ़ोर्स exerted in the upward दिशा by the मैदान, keeping the ऑब्जेक्ट from going into free-fall.
The upward फ़ोर्स इससे the मैदान ensures कि an ऑब्जेक्ट at बाकी on the धरती 's सतह is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition, which is the path that the object would follow when falling freely toward the Earth 's center.
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory अंतर्गत the influence of gravitation-only, महसूस no g-force.
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely falling लिफ्ट गिरना toward the धरती 's बीच ( in वैक्यूम ), or ( to शुभ सन्निकटन ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit.
These are examples of coordinate acceleration ( a change in velocity ) बगैर a सनसनी of weight.
The experience of no g-force ( zero-g ), however it is उत्पादित, is synonymous साथ weightlessness.
In the absence of gravitational fields, or in दिशानिर्देश at सही कोण to उन्हें, उचित और निर्देशांक accelerations हैं the same, and any coordinate acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration.
An example here is a rocket in free space, in जिससे सरल परिवर्तन in गति हैं उत्पादित by the engines, and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers.
An augur holding a lituus, the curved wand प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a प्रतीक of augury on Roman coins
The augur was a priest and आधिकारिक in the शास्त्रीय संसार, विशेषकर प्राचीन रोम और etruria.
His main role was to interpret the will of the देवताओं by अध्ययन the उड़ान of पक्षियों : whether वे हैं उड़ती in समूह or अलोन, what noises they make as they fly, direction of flight and what kind of birds they are.
This was known as `` लेने the auspices. ''
The ceremony और फलन of the augur थी सेंट्रल to कोई प्रमुख undertaking in रोमन society—public or private—including matters of war, commerce, and religion.
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` जो करता नहीं जान कि इस नगर थी संस्थापित तभी बाद लेने the auspices, कि सबकुछ in युद्ध and in peace, at home and abroad, was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington पहाड़ियाँ is an affluent जातियाँ in southeastern Michigan.
It is the दूसरी largest नगर in ओकलैंड काउंटी in the U.S. state of Michigan.
Its population थी 79,740 at the 2010 census.
It is part of the upscale northwestern उपनगरों of महानगर Detroit and is also northeast of downtown Ann Arbor.
Farmington Hills consistently बाँधने as एक of the safest शहरों in the संयुक्त राज्य, as well as in the state of Michigan.
In 2010, the area ranked as the 30th safest नगर in अमेरिका.
Although the two शहरों have पृथक सेवाएं और पता, farmington और farmington पहाड़ियाँ हैं often thought of as the same community.
Features of the community include a recently renovated downtown, boutiques, a विंटेज सिनेमा, numerous रेस्तरां, exotic car dealerships, आर्ट गैलरी, और पब्लिक parks including Heritage Park.
There are several historical sites including the longacre हाउस और the राज्यपाल warner Mansion.
दोनो शहरों हैं परोसा by Farmington Public Schools.
Farmington Hills serves as a major business बीच लिये the वृहद डेट्रॉयट क्षेत्रफल.
present-day छाप of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town seal ( मेट्रिक्स ) of Náchod from 1570
a मुहर is a यंत्र लिये बनाना an छाप in मोम, मिट्टी, पेपर, or कुछ अन्य मीडियम, including an embossment on paper, and is also the impression thus made.
The original purpose was to authenticate a दस्तावेज़, a wrapper लिये एक ऐसे as a आधुनिक लिफाफा, or the कवर of a संग्राहक or package holding valuables or other objects.
The sealing process is essentially कि of a सांचे, साथ the फाइनल चित्र represented on the यंत्र लिये बनाना the impression by a mirror-image design, incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio.
The seal-making device is also referred to as the मुहर मेट्रिक्स or die ; the imprint it creates as the मुहर छाप ( or, more rarely, the sealing ).
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting इससे the वृहद दबाव on the पेपर जहाँ the ऊँची भाग of the matrix touch, the seal is known as a dry seal ; in all other cases a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used, usually in another color than the paper.
For legal purposes, the definition of a seal may be extended to include rubber stamps, or लिखने निर्दिष्ट शब्द ( `` मुहर '' or `` L.S. `` ).
In the United राज्य, the शब्द `` मुहर '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or color ), which may be used in a variety of contexts including architectural settings, on flags, or on official letterheads.
Thus, for example, the Great Seal of the United States, among अन्य उपयोग, appears on the रिवर्स of the one-dollar विधेयक ; और अनेक of the seals of the U.S. states appear on their respective state flags.
In Europe, although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature in ऐसे contexts as खूब as on seals, the मुहर डिज़ाइन in इसके entirety rarely appears as an emblem.
The study of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics.
Groundhog Day ( पेन्सिलवेनिया जर्मनी : grundsaudaag, murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2.
According to folklore, if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day, then spring will come early ; if it is sunny, the groundhog होगा माना देखिए इसके छाया और रिट्रीट वापस into इसके burrow, और the शीत मौसम होगा continue for six more weeks.
Modern customs of the holiday involve celebrations where early morning festivals are held to देखें the groundhog उभरते इससे इसके burrow.
In southeastern Pennsylvania, Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday साथ fersommlinge, सोशल कार्यक्रम in जिससे खाना is परोसा, भाषणों हैं बना, और one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment.
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only language spoken at the event, and those who speak अंग्रेज़ी अदा a दंड, प्रायः in the रूप of a निकल, dime, or क्वार्टर प्रति शब्द बोला, साथ the money put into a bowl in the center of the table.
The largest groundhog दिन जश्न is held in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania.
Groundhog Day, already a widely recognized and popular tradition, received widespread attention as a result of the 1993 film Groundhog Day, which was set in punxsutawney, pa ( हालांकि फिल्माया primarily in वुडस्टॉक, il ) और portrayed punxsutawney Phil.
High resolution चित्र of tampa खाड़ी प्रदेश
The Tampa Bay area has a humid subtropical जलवायु ( koppen cfa ), साथ गरम और आर्द्र ग्रीष्म साथ बारंबार thunderstorms और drier सर्दियों with freezing temperatures occurring every 2–3 years.
The area अनुभवों a significant गर्मियाँ गीला ऋतु, as nearly two-thirds of the सालाना precipitation falls in the months of June through September.
The area is listed by the United राज्य विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ) as होने in hardiness मण्डल 10, जिससे is about the northern limit of where coconut palms and royal palms can be grown.
Highs प्रायः दायरा between 65 and 95 °F ( 18 and 35 °C ) year round.
Though known for hot summers, tampa 's आधिकारिक ऊँची रै never पहुँचे 100 °f ( 38 °c ) – the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 °F ( 37 °C ).
St. Petersburg 's all-time रिकार्ड ऊँची is exactly 100 °F ( 38 °C ).
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and the Gulf of Mexico, and much of the नगर of tampa झूठ on a छोटी peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay.
This proximity to large लाशें of जल दोनो नरमपंथियों temperatures और introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere.
In general, the local communities farthest from the coast have larger तापमान सीमाएँ, दोनो दौरान a सिंगल दिन और throughout the seasons of the year.
A diagram of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम, प्रर्दशित विभिन्न गुण आरपार the दायरा of बारंबारता and wavelengths
the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम is the दायरा of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation.
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a different meaning, and is instead the characteristic वितरण of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण उत्सर्जित or अवशोषित by that particular object.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends इससे नीचे the कम बारंबारता प्रयुक्त लिये आधुनिक रेडियो संचार to गामा विकिरण at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end, thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
The limit for long wavelengths is the आकार of the ब्रह्मांड itself, जबकि it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length, although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous.
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic और अन्य probing interactions, as ways to study and characterize matter.
In addition, radiation from various parts of the वर्णक्रम रै मिला अनेक अन्य उपयोग लिये संचार और निर्माण ( देखिए इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण लिये अधिक अनुप्रयोग ).
लेजेंड
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945 ), भी ज्ञात by उसके आद्याक्षर, fdr, थी the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) और a सेंट्रल फिगर in संसार कार्यक्रम during the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war.
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms, he built a नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि realigned अमरीकी राजनीती बाद 1932, as उसके घरेलू नीतियों पारिभाषित अमरीकी उदारतावाद for the middle third of the 20th century.
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign theme, FDR defeated लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन हर्बर्ट हूवर in नवम्बर 1932, at the गहराई of the ग्रेट अवसाद.
Energized by his personal victory over polio, fdr 's unfailing आशावाद और सक्रियता contributed to a नवीकरण of the national spirit.
He worked closely साथ अंग्रेजों प्रधान मंत्री विंस्टन चर्चिल और सोवियत सामान्य सचिव जोसेफ स्टालिन in leading the Allies against Germany and Japan in World War II, and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy.
In his first hundred days in office, which began कूच 4, 1933, रूज़वेल्ट पथप्रदर्शन प्रमुख विधान और जारी a profusion of कार्यपालिका आदेश कि instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ), recovery ( economic growth ), and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street, banks and transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, लकिन तब relapsed into a गहन recession.
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing कोई considerable विधान ; it abolished अनेक of the राहत कार्यक्रम जब बेरोजगारी diminished during World War II.
सबसे of the regulations on कारोबार यहूद ended परिचय 1975–85, except for the regulation of Wall Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which still exists.
Along with several smaller programs, major surviving programs include the Federal Deposit Insurance निगम, जिससे थी निर्मित in 1933, और सोशल सुरक्षा, जिससे Congress passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, with the Japanese invasion of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany, FDR दिया दमदार राजनयिक और वित्तीय support to चीन और ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, जबकि बाकी officially neutral.
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of लोकतंत्र `` जिससे होता सप्लाई munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, Roosevelt, with congressional स्वीकृति, provided lend-lease सहायता to the देशों fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain.
With very strong national support, he made war on जापानी और जर्मनी बाद the जापानी आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर on दिसम्बर 7, 1941, कॉलिंग it a `` date which will live in infamy ``.
He पर्यवेक्षित the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied war effort.
As an active military leader, Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts कि ended in the शिकस्त of the अक्ष शक्तियां और the विकास of the संसार 's पहला अणु बमबारी.
In 1942 रूज़वेल्ट ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American civilians.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new heights as लाखो of लोगों स्थानांतरित to नई कार्य in युद्ध centers, और 16 लाख मेन और 300,000 महिलाओं यहूद drafted or volunteered for military service.
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only during the बारह सालो of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी, लकिन भी लिये दशकों afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of मतदाता कि निर्मित the Fifth Party System.
fdr 's नई सौदे गठबन्धन संयुक्त मजदूर संघ, big city machines, white ethnics, African Americans and rural white Southerners.
He also influenced the बाद सृष्टि of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र और bretton Woods.
Roosevelt is consistently रेटेड by विद्वानों as एक of the शीर्ष तीन u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, along with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington.
A liberal Democrat, Roosevelt defined his वैचारिक स्थिति as `` a छोटी बाएँ of center. ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is used to refer to a कमेटी बना up of सदस्यों of दोनो कक्षों of a bicameral विधानमंडल.
in अन्य contexts, it refers to a कमेटी साथ सदस्यों from more than one organization.
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, it is therefore exclusively the domain of the राज्य to परमिट, prohibit, or वरना विनियमित वाणिज्यिक sex, मगर insofar as कॉंग्रेस may विनियमित it as भाग of अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स साथ कानून जैसे the मन Act.
In most states, वेश्यावृति is माना a misdemeanor in the श्रेणी of पब्लिक अनुक्रम crime, a crime that disrupts the order of a community.
It was at one time माना to be a vagrancy crime.
फिलहाल, नेवाडा is the तभी राज्य to allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes.
Only 8 काउंटी currently contain active brothels.
All forms of वेश्यावृति हैं illegal in क्लार्क काउंटी ( जिससे contains the लास vegas–paradise महानगर area ), Washoe County ( which contains Reno ), Carson City, Douglas County, and Lincoln County.
The अन्य काउंटी theoretically allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, but some of these counties currently have no active brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' and living off of the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal अंतर्गत नेवाडा विधि, as elsewhere in the देश.
As with other देशों, वेश्यावृति in the संयुक्त राज्य can be विभाजित into three broad categories : street prostitution, brothel prostitution, and escort prostitution.
The national flag of the United States of America, often simply referred to as the अमरीकी ध्वज, consists of तेरह बराबर आड़ा धारियाँ of रेड ( शीर्ष और नीचे ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ श्वेत, साथ a ब्लू आयताकार in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 राज्य of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका और the 13 धारियाँ represent the तेरह अंग्रेजों colonies that declared independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union.
Nicknames for the flag include the `` सितारों और धारियाँ '', `` बूढ़ा महिमा ``, and `` The Star-Spangled Banner. ''
India is a federal union of states comprising twenty-eight राज्य और सात संघ territories.
The states and territories हैं further subdivided into जिले और so on.
congressional जिले लिये the 113th United States Congress
2010 जनसांख्यिकी change:
Change in apportionment of congressional जिले, starting in 2013, as a परिणाम of the 2010 census.
2000 जनसांख्यिकी change:
बदलें in apportionment of congressional districts, from 2003 to 2013, as a result of the 2000 census.
This is a complete list of congressional जिले लिये प्रतिनिधित्व in the संयुक्त States House of Representatives.
The quantity ( apportionment ) और सीमाएँ ( redistricting ) of जिले हैं संकल्पित बाद प्रत्येक जनसांख्यिकी, although in some cases states have changed the boundaries more than once per census.
This list शामिल the 435 वर्तमान और over 200 obsolete districts.
For example, since the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी, नेब्रास्का रै था तीन जिले, लकिन it प्रयुक्त to have as अनेक as six.
In the first decade of the twenty-first century, Texas had 32 जिले, लकिन रै चूंकि added चार due to reapportionment as a result of the 2010 census.
अन्य राज्य have खोया जिले चूंकि the क्रमांक of congressional seats has been set at 435 by statute.
Also शामिल यहाँ हैं non-voting delegations : six current and four obsolete.
The boundaries of जिले प्रायः शिफ़्ट साथ each redistricting.
Over time, the region and जनसांख्यिकी represented in a ज़िला can बदलें substantially.
Furthermore, districts sometimes retain the वही सीमाएँ जबकि बदलना उनके ज़िला संख्याएँ.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an American singer, songwriter, रिकार्ड निर्माता, अभिनेत्री, और लोकसेवक.
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy mottola, कैरी released उसके self-titled डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम mariah कैरी in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum और शाखित four consecutive number one singles on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
following उसके विवाह to mottola in 1993 और कामयाबी साथ hit रिकॉर्ड भाव ( 1991 ), Music Box ( 1993 ), and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ), Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single `` एक मीठी दिन ``, a duet साथ बॉयज ii मेन, खर्च a रिकार्ड सोलह सप्ताह on शीर्ष of the बिलबोर्ड hot 100, और remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history.
During the recording of the album, Carey began to deviate from उसके r & b और पॉप beginnings और धीरे traversed into hip hop.
This musical change became evident with the रिलीज of तितली ( 1997 ), at जिससे समय कैरी था अलग इससे mottola.
Carey left Columbia in 2000, and signed a record-breaking $ 100 लाख रिकॉर्डिंग contract with Virgin Records.
पहले the रिलीज of उसके पहला विशेषता फिल्मी glitter ( 2001 ), she suffered a physical and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion.
Following the film 's poor reception, she was bought out of her recording contract for $ 50 लाख, जिससे led to a मनाही in उसके करियर.
वो हस्ताक्षरित a multi-million डालर अनुबंध सौदे साथ द्वीप रिकॉर्ड in 2002, और बाद an unsuccessful period, returned to the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second single `` We Belong Together `` became उसके सबसे कामयाब सिंगल of the 2000s, और थी बाद नामित `` सोंग of the दशक '' by Billboard.
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring भूमिका in ( 2009 ) ; वो थी awarded the `` भेदन प्रदर्शन पुरस्कार '' at the ताड़ स्रोतों अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी Festival, and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over two decades, Carey has sold more than 200 million रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling म्यूज़िक कलाकारों of all time.
In 1998, she was honored as the world 's best-selling रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार of the 1990s at the संसार म्यूज़िक Awards.
Carey was also named the best-selling मादा कलाकार of the millennium in 2000.
According to the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका, she is the third best-selling female artist in the United States, with 63.5 million certified albums.
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ), कैरी gained उसके eighteenth क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the संयुक्त States, more than any other solo artist.
In 2012, Carey was ranked second on vh1 's सूची of the `` 100 महानतम महिलाओं in Music ''.
Aside from her वाणिज्यिक accomplishments, कैरी रै जीती पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, 17 संसार Music Awards, 11 American Music Awards, and 31 Billboard Music Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird परम् '' by the गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड, वो is famed for her five-octave vocal range, power, melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register.
Stratocumulus stratiformis cumulogenitus
In meteorology, a cloud is a visible mass of द्रव droplets or frozen crystals बना of जल or various chemicals suspended in the atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body.
These suspended particles हैं भी ज्ञात as aerosols.
बादल in धरती 's माहौल हैं पढ़ाई in the cloud physics branch of meteorology.
Two processes, संभवतः एक्टिंग साथ, can सीसे to एयर बनने संतृप्त ; cooling the air or adding water vapor to the air.
In general, precipitation will fall to the surface ; an एक्सेप्शन is virga, जिससे evaporates पहले reaching the सतह.
The international cloud classification system is based on the fact clouds in their सबसे मौलिक फ़ॉर्म can दिखाएँ free-convective upward विकास जैसे कपासी, appear in non-convective परतदार चादरें ऐसे as stratus, or take the form of thin fibrous wisps, as in the case of cirrus.
Prefixes are used in कनेक्शन साथ बादल to एक्स्प्रेस विसंगतियाँ or complexities in ये मौलिक फ़ॉर्म or to specify middle or high altitude ranges.
These include strato- for low clouds with limited convection that form mostly in uneven layers, cumulo- for complex highly-convective storm clouds, nimbo- for thick layered बादल of कुछ जटिलता कि can उपज मॉडरेट to भारी वर्षण, alto- लिये मध्य बादल, और cirro- लिये ऊँची बादल ; the latter two of which may be of simple or moderately complex structure.
Whether or not a cloud is low, middle, or ऊँची स्तर depends on कैसा दूर ऊपर the मैदान its base forms.
Cloud types with significant vertical extent can form in the low or middle ऊँचाई सीमाएँ depending on the नमी सामग्री of the air.
Clouds in the troposphere have लैटिन names due to the लोकप्रिय अनुकूलन of ल्यूक हावर्ड 's बादल categorization system, which began to spread in popularity during December 1802.
Synoptic surface weather observations use code numbers to record and report the types of tropospheric cloud दृश्य at प्रत्येक अनुसूचित अवलोकन समय आधारित on the ऊँचाई and physical appearance of the clouds.
While a majority of clouds form in Earth 's क्षोभमण्डल, वहीँ हैं अवसरों जब बादल in the stratosphere and mesosphere can be observed.
These three main layers of the atmosphere where बादल may be देखी हैं collectively known as the homosphere.
Above this lies the thermosphere और exosphere, जिससे साथ मेक up the heterosphere that marks the transition to outer space.
Clouds have been observed on other planets and moons भीतर the सौर प्रणाली, लकिन, due to उनके अलग तापमान विशेषताएँ, वे हैं रचित of अन्य substances such as methane, ammonia, and sulfuric acid.
galveston काउंटी is a काउंटी स्तिथ in the u.S. राज्य of Texas within the Houston–Sugar Land–Baytown metropolitan area.
As of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, the जनसांख्यिकी was 291,309.
Its county seat is galveston.
League City is the largest नगर in galveston काउंटी in शर्तें of जनसांख्यिकी ; url_http between 2000 और 2005 it surpassed Galveston as the county 's largest city.
galveston काउंटी थी संस्थापित in 1838.
nassau
Freeport, बहामा
This is a सूची of शहरों in the बहामा.
The following तालिका सूचियाँ the नगर or कस्बा नाम, the भौगोलिक निर्देशांक, the population as of the 1990 census, an estimate of the population as of 2009, and the island name.
The Big Ten Conference, formerly Western Conference and Big Nine सम्मेलन, is the oldest प्रभाग i कॉलेज एथलेटिक सम्मेलन in the United States.
Its twelve member institutions ( which are primarily flagship research universities in their respective राज्य, well-regarded academically, और साथ अपेक्षाकृत विशाल छात्र नामांकन ) हैं स्तिथ primarily in the मिडवेस्ट, stretching from Nebraska in the west to Penn State in the east.
The conference competes in the NCAA 's Division I ; its football teams compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ), formerly ज्ञात as प्रभाग i-a, the उच्चतम स्तर of ncaa प्रतियोगिता in कि खेल.
सदस्य स्कूलों of the बिग टेन ( or, in दो मामले, उनके जनक विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणालियों ) भी are members of the Committee on Institutional Cooperation, a leading educational and research consortium.
Despite the conference 's name, the Big Ten actually consists of 12 schools, following the जोड of the पेन्सिलवेनिया राज्य University in 1993 and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011.
In 2014, the conference will विस्तार to 14 सदस्यों साथ the परिवर्धन of the विश्वविद्यालयों of मेरीलैंड, College Park and Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.
It is नहीं to be उलझन साथ the बिग 12 सम्मेलन, जिससे रै only ten schools and represents a different region of the country.
Single Malt Scotch is single malt whisky made in स्कॉटलैंड using a घट स्टिल आसवन प्रक्रम at a सिंगल डिस्टिलरी, साथ malted barley as the only grain ingredient.
As with any Scotch whisky, a सिंगल malt स्कॉच जरूर be आसुत in स्कॉटलैंड और matured in ओक casks in स्कॉटलैंड for at least three years ( most single malts are matured longer ).
`` malt '' indicates कि the व्हिस्की is distilled from a `` malted '' grain.
Several types of grains can be malted ( लिये उदाहरण, जौ, rye और गेहूं हैं सब दाने जिससे can be malted ) ; however, in the मामला of single malt Scotch, barley is always the only grain used.
`` Single '' indicates कि सब the malts in the बोतल come from a single distillery.
Bottlings containing malt व्हिस्की इससे अनेक distilleries हैं called `` blended malt ``.
Until the Scotch Whisky Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ), the word `` blended '' only appeared ( in the context of Scotch व्हिस्की ) on बोतलों of व्हिस्की कि contained a मिश्रण of दोनो जौ और non-barley अनाज व्हिस्की, लकिन इस is no longer the case.
Under the terminology established by the SWR 2009, a `` blended malt स्कॉच व्हिस्की '' is a मिश्रण of सिंगल malt स्कॉच whiskies, नहीं a मिश्रण of malted जौ व्हिस्की और non-barley व्हिस्की ; those हैं पुकारा `` blended Scotch whisky '', without the word `` malt ''.
the पद `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted malt '' प्रयुक्त under the prior labelling conventions.
The age statement on a बोतल of सिंगल malt स्कॉच is the number of years the whisky spent maturing in cask.
As very few whiskies are bottled इससे a सिंगल cask the आयु बयान reflects the आयु of the youngest malt in the mix.
A texture may be arranged so as to, `` closely दृष्टिकोण the single-object औकात of fused-ensemble timbres, लिये उदाहरण, the खूबसूरत 'northern लाइट्स ' chord..., in a very interesting distribution of pitches, produces a fused sound supported by a suspended cymbal roll `` ( Erickson ( 1975 ), p.166 & 168 ).
In contrast to more traditional musical textures, sound mass composition `` minimizes the importance of individual pitches in preference लिये बनावट, timbre, और डायनामिक्स as प्राथमिक shapers of भाव और प्रभाव. ''
Developed from the modernist टोन क्लस्टर और स्प्रेड to orchestral लिखने by the लेट 1950s और 1960s, sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between sound and noise `` ( Edwards 2001, pp. 326–27 ).
तकनीकों जिससे may बनाएँ or be प्रयुक्त साथ ध्वनि द्रव्यमान शामिल विस्तारित तकनीकों ऐसे as मूक पीतल or स्ट्रिंग्स, आतुर tonguing, wide vibrato, extreme ranges, and glissandos.
Composers and works include Barbara Kolb, Pauline Oliveros ' Sound Patterns for chorus ( 1961 ), Norma Beecroft 's इससे सपनो of पीतल लिये कोरस ( 1963–1964 ), और Nancy Van de Vate.
Beecroft `` blurs individual pitches in favor of a सामूहिक timbre through the उपयोग of गायन और इंस्ट्रूमेंटल क्लस्टर, choral वाक, narrator, और a धो of ध्वनि इससे an electronic tape. ''
( ibid )
A very early example is the opening of Jean-Féry Rebel 's ballet Les Elémens ( 1737–38 ), where chaos is represented by a धीरे cumulating orchestral क्लस्टर of सब सात टीप of the d नाबालिग स्केल ( henck 2004, pp. 52–54 ).
A later उदाहरण is the तीसरा गति of रुथ क्रॉफर्ड seeger 's स्ट्रिंग quartet 1931 ( Nonesuch H-71280 ) while more recently Phill Niblock 's multiple drone based music serves as an example.
The use of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins with Debussy and Edgard Varèse often carefully scored व्यक्तिगत इंस्ट्रूमेंटल भाग so कि वे होता फ्यूज into एक ensemble timbre or ध्वनि द्रव्यमान ( एरिक्सन 1975, pp. 18 and 21 ).
Other examples include European `` textural '' compositions of the fifties and sixties such as Krzysztof Penderecki 's Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima ( 1959 ) और györgy ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works जैसे atmosphères ( 1961 ) और उसके requiem ( 1963-65 ).
Other composers with works using this technique include henryk górecki, karel husa, witold lutosławski, kazimierz serocki, और Steven Stucky.
Sound mass techniques also appear in the म्यूज़िक of जार्ज crumb ( anon. n.d. ).
Students attending a लेक्चर on रैखिक बीजगणित at the हेलसिंकी विश्वविद्यालयों of Technology
विद्यार्थियों in ग्रामीण सूडान, 2002
A student is a learner, or किसी जो attends an शैक्षणिक संस्था.
In some nations, the English term ( or its cognate in another language ) is reserved for those जो attend विश्वविद्यालयों, जबकि a schoolchild अंतर्गत the आयु of अठारह is पुकारा a pupil in अंग्रेज़ी ( or an equivalent in other languages ), although in the United States a person enrolled in grades K–12 is often called a student.
In its widest use, छात्र is प्रयुक्त लिये anyone जो is learning.
Australia is a continent comprising मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया, तस्मानिया, नई गिनी, seram, संभवतः timor, and neighbouring islands.
The continent is sometimes ज्ञात in तकनीकी contexts by the names sahul, australinea or Meganesia, to distinguish it from the Australian mainland.
It is the smallest of the सात परंपरागत continents in the English conception.
New Zealand is not part of the continent of Australia, but of the पृथक, submerged महाद्वीप of Zealandia.
Zealandia and Australia are both part of the wider regions ज्ञात as australasia और Oceania.
the महाद्वीप of ऑस्ट्रेलिया झूठ on a महाद्वीपीय शेल्फ overlain by उथले समंदर जिससे divide it into several landmasses — the Arafura Sea and Torres Strait between mainland Australia and New Guinea, and Bass Strait between mainland Australia and Tasmania.
When sea levels were निम्नतर दौरान the pleistocene बर्फ आयु, सहित the last glacial maximum about 18,000 BC, they were connected by dry land.
दौरान the पास्ट टेन हजार सालो, उठती समुद्र स्तर overflowed the lowlands और अलग the continent into today 's low-lying arid to semi-arid mainland and the two mountainous islands of New Guinea and Tasmania.
Geologically, a continent extends to the किनारे of इसके महाद्वीपीय शेल्फ, so the now-separate islands are considered part of the continent.
Due to the spread of animals, fungi and plants across the सिंगल pleistocene landmass the पृथक lands have a related biota.
Central Park is nearly twice as big as the संसार 's second-smallest देश, Monaco.
historically इसके टंकी यहूद महत्वपूर्ण components of the city 's water supply.
Environmental issues in New York City are affected by the city 's आकार, घनत्व, abundant पब्लिक परिवहन अवसंरचना, और स्थान at the मुँह of the हडसन नदी.
New York 's जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व has environmental pros and cons.
It facilitates the उच्चतम द्रव्यमान पारगमन उपयोग in the संयुक्त राज्य, but also concentrates pollution.
गैसोलीन खपत in the नगर is at the रेट the नेशनल औसत थी in the 1920s, और ग्रीनहाउस गैस emissions हैं a भिन्न of the national average, at 7.1 metric tons per person per year, below San Francisco, at 11.2 metric tons, and the national average, at 24.5 metric tons.
New York City accounts for तभी 1 % of संयुक्त राज्य ग्रीनहाउस गैस emissions जबकि आवास 2.7 % of its population.
In September 2012, New यॉर्क थी नामित the # 1 `` अमेरिका 's dirtiest नगर, '' by a Travel+Leisure readership survey that rated the environmental quality of 35 prominent cities in the United States.
Atlanta (, stressed, locally ) is the capital of और the सबसे populous नगर in the u.S. राज्य of जॉर्जिया, साथ an अनुमानित 2011 जनसांख्यिकी of 432,427.
Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the Atlanta metropolitan area, home to 5,457,831 people और the नवीं largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त States.
Atlanta is the county seat of Fulton काउंटी, और a छोटी portion of the नगर extends eastward into DeKalb County.
Atlanta was established in 1837 at the intersection of two railroad लाइनों, और the नगर रोज़ इससे the राख of the Civil War to become a national center of commerce.
In the decades following the Civil Rights Movement, during which the city earned a प्रतिष्ठा as `` too व्यस्त to नफ़रत '' लिये the प्रगतिशील दृश्य of इसके नागरिकों और leaders, Atlanta attained international prominence.
Atlanta is the primary transportation hub of the Southeastern United States, via राजमार्ग, रेलरोड, और एयर, साथ hartsfield–jackson अटलांटा अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र होने the संसार 's व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र since 1998.
Atlanta is considered an `` alpha ( - ) संसार नगर, '' और, साथ a सकल घरेलू उत्पाद of us $ 270 billion, Atlanta’s economy ranks 15th among world cities and sixth in the nation.
Although Atlanta’s economy is considered diverse, dominant sectors include logistics, professional and कारोबार सेवाएं, मीडिया परिचालन, सरकारी प्रशासन, और उच्चतर education.
Topographically, Atlanta is चिह्नित by रोलिंग पहाड़ियाँ और घना tree coverage.
Revitalization of अटलांटा 's पड़ोस, initially spurred by the 1996 Olympics, has intensified in the 21st century, altering the city 's demographics, politics, and culture.
A 1947 propaganda comic book प्रकाशित by the catechetical गिल्ड शैक्षणिक समाज उठाने the specter of a Communist takeover
McCarthyism is the practice of making accusations of disloyalty, subversion, or देशद्रोह बगैर proper regard for evidence.
It also means `` the practice of making अन्यायपूर्ण दोषारोपण or using अन्यायपूर्ण investigative तकनीकों, विशेषकर in order to restrict dissent or political criticism. ''
The term has its origins in the period in the संयुक्त राज्य ज्ञात as the दूसरी रेड scare, स्थायी roughly इससे 1950 to 1956 और characterized by heightened fears of कम्युनिस्ट influence on American institutions and espionage by Soviet agents.
originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of रिपब्लिकन u.s. सीनेटर जोसेफ McCarthy of Wisconsin, `` McCarthyism '' soon took on a broader meaning, describing the excesses of similar efforts.
The term is also now used अधिक generally to describe लापरवाह, unsubstantiated आरोपों, as well as demagogic attacks on the character or patriotism of political adversaries.
During the McCarthy era, thousands of Americans were अभियुक्त of होने साम्यवादियों or कम्युनिस्ट sympathizers और became the विषय of आक्रामक investigations and questioning before government or private-industry panels, committees and agencies.
The प्राथमिक लक्ष्य of ऐसे suspicions यहूद सरकारी employees, those in the entertainment industry, educators and union activists.
Suspicions were often given credence despite inconclusive or questionable प्रमाण, और the स्तर of threat posed by a व्यक्ति 's रियल or supposed वामपंथी एसोसिएशन or beliefs was often greatly exaggerated.
Many people suffered loss of नियुक्ति and/or विनाश of उनके करियर ; कुछ भी suffered imprisonment.
Most of these punishments came about through trial verdicts बाद विकल, कानून कि होता be घोषित असंवैधानिक, dismissals लिये कारण बाद घोषित illegal or actionable, or extra-legal procedures that would come into general disrepute.
The most famous examples of McCarthyism include the speeches, investigations, and hearings of Senator McCarthy himself ; the Hollywood ब्लैकलिस्ट, संबद्ध साथ hearings conducted by the हाउस un-american क्रियाएँ कमेटी ( huac ) ; और the विभिन्न anti-communist activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) under Director J. Edgar Hoover.
McCarthyism was a widespread social and cultural phenomenon that affected all levels of society और थी the सोर्स of a ग्रेट सौदे of बहस और विरोध in the संयुक्त States.
नेपोलियन is a fictional अक्षर and the main antagonist in George Orwell 's Animal Farm.
While he is at first a आम फार्म सुअर, he gets rid of स्नोबॉल, another pig which shares the power.
He then takes लाभ of the पशु ' uprising विरूद्ध उनके मास्टर्स to आखिरकार become the tyrannical `` President of Animal Farm, '' which he turns into a dictatorship.
वरुण लोगो
The NEPTUNE Canada project is the world’s पहला regional-scale भाटे समंदर observatory that plugs directly into the Internet.
Since December 2009, it has allowed people to `` लहरे '' the seafloor जबकि समंदर वैज्ञानिकों चलाएं deep-water प्रयोग from labs and universities around the world.
Along with its सिस्टर प्रोजेक्ट, शुक्र, वरुण offers a unique approach to ocean science.
traditionally, समंदर वैज्ञानिकों have relied on infrequent जलयान क्रूज़ or space-based satellites to carry out their research, while the NEPTUNE project uses a remotely operated crawler.
The Coronet was a full-size car from चकमा in the 1950s, initially the प्रभाग 's उच्चतम trim लकीर लकिन, starting in 1955, the lowest trim line.
In the 1960s, the name थी transferred to चकमा 's mid-size entry.
ARM9 is an भुजा वास्तुकला 32-bit RISC CPU family.
Commonwealth is a परंपरागत अंग्रेज़ी पद लिये a political community founded for the common good.
Historically, it has sometimes महरूम synonymous साथ `` गणतंत्र ``.
More recently it रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये fraternal associations of some sovereign nations.
Most notably, the Commonwealth of राष्ट्र, an संघ primarily of पूर्व सदस्यों of the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य, is often referred to as simply `` the Commonwealth ''.
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11, September 11th, or 9/11 ) were a series of four समन्वित आतंकवादी हमले शुभारम्भ by the इस्लामी आतंकवादी समूह al-qaeda upon the संयुक्त राज्य in नई यॉर्क नगर और the वॉशिंगटन, d.C. क्षेत्रफल on सितंबर 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19 al-qaeda आतंकवादी so वे could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks.
Two of those planes, American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175, were crashed into the उत्तर और दक्षिण मीनारें, क्रमशः, of the संसार व्यापार बीच जटिल in नई यॉर्क नगर.
Within two hours, both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete पतन of सब अन्य इमारतें in the wtc जटिल, as खूब as प्रमुख क्षति to टेन other large surrounding structures.
A third प्लेन, अमरीकी एयरलाइंस उड़ान 77, थी क्रैश into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense ), leading to a partial collapse in its western side.
The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, was targeted at the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C., लकिन क्रैश into a फ़ील्ड निकट shanksville, पेन्सिलवेनिया, बाद इसके यात्री आजमाया to overcome the hijackers.
In total, almost 3,000 people died in the attacks, including the 227 नागरिकों और 19 hijackers सवार the चार planes.
suspicion जल्दी fell on al-Qaeda.
Although the group 's leader, Osama bin Laden, initially अस्वीकृत कोई भागीदारी, in 2004 he claimed जिम्मेदारी for the attacks.
Al-Qaeda and bin लादेन cited u.S. support of इसराईल, the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks.
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the War on Terror and आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान to depose the तालिबान, जिससे था harbored al-qaeda.
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism विधान और expanded law enforcement powers.
Having evaded कैप्चर लिये सालो, बिन लादेन थी स्तिथ और मारे by u.S. शक्तियां in May 2011.
The destruction of the Twin Towers and अन्य गुण caused गंभीर क्षति to the अर्थव्यवस्था of निम्नतर Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets.
Cleanup of the संसार व्यापार बीच साईट थी समाप्त in may 2002, और the Pentagon was repaired within a year.
Numerous memorials have been constructed, including the नेशनल सितंबर 11 मेमोरियल & संग्रहालय in नई यॉर्क, the प्रस्तुतीकरण मेमोरियल, और the उड़ान 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy delay, the एक संसार व्यापार बीच is अपेक्षित to be completed at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013.
Crater Lake National Park is a United States नेशनल पार्क स्तिथ in southern Oregon.
Established in 1902, Crater Lake National Park is the fifth oldest नेशनल पार्क in the संयुक्त राज्य और the तभी एक in the राज्य of Oregon.
The park encompasses the caldera of crater झील, a remnant of a नष्ट ज्वालामुखी, माउंट mazama, और the surrounding hills and forests.
The lake is deep at its deepest point, जिससे makes it the deepest झील in the संयुक्त राज्य, the दूसरी deepest in उत्तर अमेरिका and the ninth deepest in the world.
Crater Lake is often referred to as the seventh deepest lake in the world, but this former listing excludes the approximately गहराई of subglacial झील वोस्तोक in अंटार्कटिक, जिससे resides अंतर्गत nearly of बर्फ, और the हाल रपट of a अधिकतम गहराई लिये झील O'Higgins /San Martin, located on the border of Chile and Argentina.
however, जब comparing इसके औसत गहराई of to the औसत गहराई of अन्य गहन lakes, Crater Lake becomes the deepest in the Western Hemisphere and the third deepest in the world.
The impressive average depth of इस volcanic झील is due to the nearly सममित गहन caldera formed 7,700 सालो पहले दौरान the हिंसक climactic eruptions and subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama and the relatively moist climate that is typical of the crest of the Cascade Range.
the caldera रिम सीमाएँ in elevation from.
The United States geological सर्वेक्षण benchmarked उन्नयन of the झील सतह itself is.
This National पार्क encompasses.
Crater Lake रै no स्ट्रीम बहती into or out of it.
All water कि enters the झील is आखिरकार खोया इससे evaporation or subsurface seepage.
the झील 's जल commonly रै a striking ब्लू वर्ण, और the झील is re-filled entirely from direct precipitation in the form of snow and rain.
the परम् अदालत of the United States is the highest court in the United States.
It has ultimate ( and largely विवेकाधीन ) appellate क्षेत्राधिकार over सब संघीय न्यायालयों और over राज्य अदालत मामले involving issues of federal law, and original jurisdiction over a small range of cases.
The Court, which meets in the United States Supreme Court Building in Washington, D.C., consists of a मुख्य इंसाफ और आठ संबद्ध justices जो हैं मनोनीत by the अध्यक्ष and confirmed by the United States Senate.
Once नियुक्त, justices have जीवन कार्यकाल जबतक they resign, retire, or are removed after impeachment.
Conroe is the seat of मोंटगोमरी काउंटी और जलप्रपात भीतर the महानगर area.
It is स्तिथ परिचय उत्तर of ह्यूस्टन.
As of July 2011, the city population was 58,973, up इससे 36,811 in 2000.
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter Day Saint movement, जिससे adherents मानना contains कृतियाँ of प्राचीन नबियों जो जिया on the American continent from approximately 2200 BC to AD 421.
It was first published in March 1830 by Joseph स्मिथ as the किताब of mormon : an खाता लिखा by the हाथ of mormon upon प्लेटों लिया from the Plates of Nephi.
According to Smith 's account, और भी according to the किताब 's कथा, the किताब of mormon थी originally written in otherwise unknown characters referred to as `` reformed Egyptian `` engraved on golden plates.
Smith claimed that the last prophet to contribute to the book, a man named Moroni, buried it in a hill in present-day New York and then returned to earth in 1827 as an angel, revealing the स्थान of the किताब to स्मिथ और instructing उसे to अनुवाद और disseminate it as प्रमाण of the बहाली of मसीह 's true church in the latter days.
The Book of Mormon has a number of original and distinctive doctrinal discussions on विषय ऐसे as the पतन of आदम और संध्या, the प्रकृति of the प्रायश्चित, eschatology, मोचन इससे शारीरिक और आध्यात्मिक death, and the organization of the latter-day church.
The pivotal event of the book is an रूप of यीशु मसीह to the americas shortly after his resurrection.
The Book of Mormon is the earliest of the unique writings of the latter दिन संत गति, the denominations of जिससे typically लिहाज़ the टेक्स्ट नहीं तभी as scripture लकिन भी as a ऐतिहासिक रिकार्ड of परमेश्वर 's dealings साथ the प्राचीन निवासियों of the Americas.
The Book of Mormon is divided into smaller किताबे, titled बाद the individuals नामित as प्राथमिक लेखक और, in सबसे versions, divided into chapters and verses.
It is written in English, very similar to the Early Modern English linguistic style of the किंग जेम्स संस्करण of the बाइबल, और रै चूंकि महरूम fully or partially translated into 108 languages.
An enlisted rank ( भी ज्ञात as an आयोजिक ग्रेड or आयोजिक रेट ) is, in सबसे militaries, any rank below that of a commissioned officer or warrant officer.
The term can भी be समावेशी of non-commissioned officers.
In most cases, आयोजिक सेवा कर्मियों perform कार्य विशिष्ट to उनके अपना occupational specialty, as opposed to the more generalized command responsibilities of commissioned officers.
`` What a अद्भुत संसार '' is a सोंग लिखा by Bob Thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss.
It was पहला अंकित by लुई आर्मस्ट्रांग और released as a single in 1967.
Thiele and Weiss were दोनो prominent in the म्यूज़िक संसार ( thiele as a निर्माता and Weiss as a composer/performer ).
आर्मस्ट्रांग 's रिकॉर्डिंग थी inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999.
The प्रकाशन लिये इस सोंग is नियंत्रित by मेमोरी Lane Music Group, Carlin Music Corp., and Bug Music, Inc.
1908 पोस्टर विज्ञापन gaumont 's sound films.
The chronomégaphone, designed लिये विशाल हॉल, employed compressed air to amplify the recorded sound.
A sound film is a motion picture with synchronized sound, or sound technologically coupled to चित्र, as opposed to a मूक फिल्मी.
The first known public exhibition of प्रक्षिप्त ध्वनि films took प्लेस in पेरिस in 1900, लकिन दशकों होता pass before sound motion pictures were made commercially practical.
Reliable synchronization was मुश्किल to achieve साथ the जल्दी sound-on-disc प्रणालियों, और amplification and recording quality were also inadequate.
Innovations in sound-on-film led to the पहला वाणिज्यिक स्क्रीनिंग of छोटी गति तस्वीरें using the technology, which took place in 1923.
The प्राथमिक कदम in the व्यावसायीकरण of ध्वनि सिनेमा were taken in the mid- to late 1920s.
At first, the sound films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking pictures '', or `` talkies '' —were exclusively शॉर्ट्स ; the earliest feature-length फिल्मों साथ अंकित ध्वनि शामिल only music and effects.
The first feature film originally presented as a talkie थी the जैज़ सिंगर, released in October 1927.
A major hit, it was made साथ vitaphone, the अग्रणी ब्रांड of sound-on-disc technology.
Sound-on-film, however, होता जल्द become the मानक लिये talking तस्वीरें.
By the जल्दी 1930s, the talkies were a global phenomenon.
In the United States, they helped secure Hollywood 's position as एक of the संसार 's सबसे शक्तिशाली cultural/commercial प्रणालियों ( देखिए सिनेमा of the United States ).
In Europe ( and, to a lesser degree, elsewhere ) the नई विकास थी treated साथ suspicion by अनेक filmmakers और आलोचकों, जो चिंतित कि a focus on dialogue would subvert the unique aesthetic virtues of soundless cinema.
In Japan, where the लोकप्रिय फिल्मी परंपरा एकीकृत मूक फिल्म और सजीव vocal performance, talking pictures were slow to take root.
In India, sound was the transformative element that led to the रैपिड विस्तार of the स्वदेश 's फिल्मी industry—the सबसे उत्पादक ऐसे उद्योग in the संसार चूंकि the early 1960s.
African people हैं natives or निवासियों of अफ़्रीकी and people of African descent.
The Australian Recording उद्योग संघ म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार ( commonly ज्ञात as aria म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार or aria पुरस्कार ) is an सालाना श्रेणी of awards nights celebrating the Australian music industry, put on by the Australian Recording Industry Association ( ARIA ).
The event has been held annually चूंकि 1987 और encompasses the सामान्य genre-specific और लोकप्रिय पुरस्कार ( ये हैं कया is प्रायः होने referred to as `` the ARIA awards '' ) as well as Fine Arts Awards and Artisan Awards ( held separately from 2004 ), Lifetime Achievement Awards and ARIA Hall of Fame – held separately from 2005 to 2010 but returned to the general ceremony in 2011.
For 2010, aria introduced पब्लिक voted पुरस्कार for the first time.
Winning, or even being nominated for, an ARIA award results in a lot of media attention on an artist, and usually increases recording sales several-fold – in 2005, लिये उदाहरण, बाद बेन ली जीती तीन पुरस्कार, उसके एल्बम जाग is the नई नींद कूद इससे no. 31 to no. 5 in the aria चार्ट, इसके उच्चतम स्थिति.
For-profit education ( also known as the शिक्षा सेवाएं उद्योग or मालिकाना शिक्षा ) refers to शैक्षणिक संस्थानों संचालित by निजी, लाभ -seeking businesses.
There are three प्रकार of for-profit स्कूलों.
One type is known as an शैक्षणिक प्रबन्धन संगठन ( भावनाएं ), और these are primary and secondary educational institutions.
EMOs कार्य साथ स्कूल जिले or चार्टर स्कूलों, using public funds to finance operations.
The majority of for-profit schools in the K–12 सेक्टर in अमेरिका फलन as emos, और have grown in क्रमांक in the mid-2000s.
the अन्य प्रमुख श्रेणी of for-profit स्कूलों हैं post-secondary संस्थानों which operate as businesses, receiving fees from each student they enroll.
A third type of for-profit schools, which is less prevalent in the संयुक्त राज्य, हैं k–12 स्कूलों जिससे operate as businesses.
emos फलन differently इससे चार्टर स्कूलों निर्मित in अनुक्रम to carry आउट a particular शिक्षण pedagogy ; सबसे charter schools are mission-oriented, while EMOs and other for-profit institutions are market-oriented.
While समर्थक argue कि the लाभ motive encourages efficiency, this arrangement has also drawn controversy and criticism.
Kevin Carey, director of the education policy कार्यक्रम of the नई अमरीकी न्यास कहा in a 2010 कालम in the वृत्तान्त of उच्चतर शिक्षा कि `` for-profits मौजूद in विशाल भाग to फिक्स शैक्षणिक market failures left by traditional institutions, and they profit by serving students that public and private nonprofit institutions too often ignore. ''
He also noted that `` There 's no doubt that the worst for-profits हैं निर्मम exploiting the commodified कॉलेज degree.
But they did n't commodify it in the पहला प्लेस. ''
amendment xxii in the नेशनल Archives
The Twenty-second Amendment of the United States Constitution सेट a पद सीमा लिये चुनाव to the office of President of the United States.
Congress passed the amendment on कूच 21, 1947.
It was ratified by the requisite number of राज्य on फ़रवरी 27, 1951.
This is an episode guide for the दुश्मनी श्रेणी bobobo-bo bo-bobo.
This list encompasses every episode, beginning with the original Japanese-language title as they aired on TV Asahi, followed by the शीर्षक प्रयुक्त in the अंग्रेज़ी उतावले संस्करण airing in the संयुक्त राज्य on कार्टून संजाल.
A short summary will follow, introducing the एपीसोड और referring to कुछ of the ढकोसला, लकिन not giving the complete summaries to the episodes.
सब names और कुछ of the सन्दर्भ होगा be the ones used from the English-language version to avoid confusion.
जापानी names may be प्रस्तुत after the dub name in parentheses.
This article is about the पब्लिक पार्क in New York City.
For other uses, देखिए सेंट्रल पार्क ( बहुविकल्पी ).
Central पार्क is a पब्लिक पार्क at the center of Manhattan in New York City.
The park initially opened in 1857, on of city-owned जमीन ( it is 843 acres today ).
In 1858, Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux won a design प्रतियोगिता to improve और विस्तार the पार्क साथ a योजना वे entitled the Greensward Plan.
Construction began the same year, जारी दौरान the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध, and was completed in 1873.
Central Park is the most visited शहरी पार्क in the United States.
Designated a National Historic Landmark in 1962, the पार्क is फिलहाल प्रबंधित by the सेंट्रल पार्क conservancy under contract with the city government.
The Conservancy is a non-profit organization that contributes 83.5 % of Central Park 's $ 37.5 million सालाना बजट, और employs 80.7 % of the पार्क 's मेंटेनेंस स्टाफ.
TracFone Wireless, Inc. is a prepaid wireless service provider operating in the संयुक्त राज्य सहित प्यूर्टो रीको और the us वर्जिन आइलैंड्स और is a subsidiary of मैक्सिको 's largest telecommunications provider, América Móvil.
As a Mobile Virtual Network Operator ( MVNO ), TracFone Wireless holds multiple agreements with the US largest wireless telecommunications companies to utilize उनके संजाल to provide सेवा सहित those of verizon, at & t, स्प्रिंट, and T-Mobile.
TracFone Wireless offers its wireless products under multiple brands जिससे प्रत्येक भी प्रस्ताव distinctive सेवा योजनाएँ, the ब्रांड्स include TracFone, NET10 Wireless, Straight Talk, SafeLink Wireless, Telcel América and Simple Mobile.
a पकड़ें dredge
Dredging is an excavation कार्यकलाप or आपरेशन प्रायः carried आउट at तनिक partly भाटे, in उथले समंदर or भैस जल क्षेत्रों साथ the purpose of gathering up bottom sediments and disposing of them at a different location.
This technique is often used to रखना जलमार्गों navigable.
It is also used as a रास्ता to replenish बालू on कुछ पब्लिक समुद्रतट, जहाँ बालू has been lost because of coastal erosion.
Dredging is भी प्रयुक्त as a तकनीक लिये फ़िशिंग लिये निश्चित प्रजाति of edible clams and crabs, see fishing dredge.
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the सामान्य उपयोग in the americas ) is कोई यंत्र, यंत्र, or पोत कि is प्रयुक्त to excavate और हटाएँ material from the bottom of a body of water.
For example, a स्कूप संलग्न to the समाप्त of a रस्सी or ध्रुव by जिससे a man can चित्रण sediments up from the bottom of a pond is a dredger.
Developing this idea further, a motorized crane equipped with a खीचें बाल्टी or clamshell ( grabber ) कि is प्रयुक्त to स्कूप सामग्री इससे the नीचे of a देह of water is also a dredger.
The crane could be स्तिथ on the बैंको, or शायद mounted on a barge.
If the crane is आरोहित on a barge, the संपूर्ण पोत is referred to as a dredger.
The process of dredging creates spoils ( excess सामग्री ), जिससे हैं carried दूर इससे the dredged area.
Dredging can produce materials for land reclamation or other purposes ( usually construction-related ), और रै भी historically निभाई a significant भूमिका in gold mining.
dredging can बनाएँ disturbance in aquatic ecosystems, often with adverse impacts.
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed इससे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस स्टेशन, may 2006.
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km during the climactic फटना at माउंट pinatubo, फिलीपीन in 1991.
A ज्वालामुखी is an खोलने, or rupture, in a ग्रह 's सतह or क्रस्ट, जिससे allows hot magma, volcanic ash and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the surface.
Volcanoes are generally मिला जहाँ tectonic plates are diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic लकीरें, लिये उदाहरण the mid-atlantic लकीरें, रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अपसारी tectonic प्लेटों pulling अलावा ; the प्रशांत रिंग of आग रै उदाहरण of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together.
By contrast, volcanoes are usually not created जहाँ दो tectonic प्लेटों स्लाइड पास्ट एक another.
ज्वालामुखी can भी रूप जहाँ वहीँ is stretching और thinning of the धरती 's क्रस्ट in the इंटीरियर्स of प्लेटों, e.g., in the East African Rift, the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America.
This type of volcanism falls under the छतरियाँ of `` थाली परिकल्पना '' volcanism.
Volcanism away from थाली सीमाएँ रै भी महरूम समझाया as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` hotspots ``, for example Hawaii, are postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs साथ मैग्मा इससे the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km गहन in the Earth.
Erupting volcanoes can pose अनेक जोखिमों, नहीं तभी in the immediate vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic राख can be a threat to वायुयान, in particular those with jet engines where ash particles can be melted by the high operating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric एसिड अस्पष्ट the सूर्य और कूल the धरती 's निम्नतर माहौल or क्षोभमण्डल ; however, वे भी अवशोषित ऊष्मा radiated up इससे the धरती, thereby वार्मिंग the stratosphere.
Historically, so-called volcanic सर्दियों have caused catastrophic famines.
Benedict Arnold ( June 14, 1801 ) was a सामान्य दौरान the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी युद्ध जो originally लड़ा लिये the American Continental Army but defected to the British Army.
While a general on the American side, he obtained कमांड of the फोर्ट at वेस्ट पाइंट, नई यॉर्क, और नियोजित to आत्मसमर्पण it to the British forces.
After the plan was exposed in सितंबर 1780, he थी commissioned into the British Army as a brigadier general.
born in कनेक्टिकट, Arnold was a merchant operating ships on the Atlantic Ocean when the war broke out in 1775.
After joining the growing फौज बाहर बोस्टन, he distinguished himself through acts of intelligence and bravery.
His actions included the Capture of Fort Ticonderoga in 1775, defensive and delaying tactics despite losing the Battle of Valcour Island on Lake Champlain in 1776, the Battle of Ridgefield, Connecticut ( after which he was promoted to major general ), परिचालन in राहत of the घेरा of फोर्ट stanwix, और कुंजी क्रियाएँ दौरान the pivotal लड़ाइयों of साराटोगा in 1777, in जिससे he suffered लेग चोटों कि ended उसके कॉम्बैट करियर लिये several years.
Despite Arnold 's successes, he was passed over for promotion by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस जबकि अन्य अधिकारियों claimed क्रेडिट लिये कुछ of उसके accomplishments.
Adversaries in military and राजनैतिक वृत्त brought आरोप of भ्रष्टाचार or अन्य malfeasance, but most often he was acquitted in formal inquiries.
Congress investigated उसके खाते और मिला he थी ऋणी to Congress after spending much of his own money on the war effort.
Frustrated and bitter, Arnold decided to बदलें पहलू in 1779, और खोली रहस्य negotiations with the British.
In जुलाई 1780, he थी offered, जारी to pursue and was awarded command of West Point.
Arnold 's scheme to surrender the fort to the अंग्रेजों थी उजागर जब अमरीकी शक्तियां captured British Major John André carrying papers that revealed the plot.
Upon learning of आंद्रे 's कैप्चर, अर्नाल्ड fled bas the हडसन नदी to the अंग्रेजों sloop-of-war Vulture, narrowly avoiding capture by the forces of George Washington, who had been alerted to the plot.
Arnold received a commission as a ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य in the अंग्रेजों फौज, an annual pension of £360, and a lump sum of over £6,000.
He led British forces on raids in Virginia, and against New लंदन और groton, कनेक्टिकट, पहले the युद्ध effectively ended साथ the American victory at Yorktown.
In the winter of 1782, Arnold moved to London with his दूसरी बीवी, मार्गरेट `` पैगी '' shippen Arnold.
He थी खूब प्राप्त by किंग जार्ज iii and the Tories but frowned upon by the Whigs.
In 1787, he returned to the merchant business with his sons Richard और हेनरी in संत जॉन, नई ब्रंसविक.
He returned to London to settle permanently in 1791, जहाँ he died टेन years later.
Because of the way he changed sides, his name quickly became a in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये देशद्रोह or betrayal.
His conflicting legacy is recalled in the अस्पष्ट प्रकृति of कुछ of the memorials that have been placed in his honor.
Curtis Montague Schilling ( born November 14, 1966 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल right-handed पिचर और वीडियो Game developer.
He helped lead the Philadelphia Phillies to the World श्रेणी in और जीती संसार श्रेणी championships in साथ the एरिज़ोना Diamondbacks and in and with the Boston Red Sox.
Schilling retired with a करियर postseason रिकार्ड of 11–2.
His.846 postseason winning प्रतिशत is a major-league रिकार्ड among pitchers साथ at तनिक 10 निर्णय.
After retiring, he संस्थापित ग्रीन दानव खेल which was renamed 38 Studios.
the कम्पनी released kingdoms of amalur : हिसाब in फ़रवरी 2012, लकिन बस तीन महीने later, Schilling laid off his entire staff amid severe financial troubles that resulted in the company missing payroll the previous week.
Star Wars is an American epic स्पेस ओपेरा मताधिकार केन्द्रित on a फिल्मी श्रेणी निर्मित by George Lucas.
The film series has spawned a मीडिया मताधिकार बाहर the फिल्मी श्रेणी पुकारा the विस्तारित ब्रह्मांड सहित किताबे, television series, computer and video games, and comic books.
These supplements to the film trilogies have resulted in significant विकास of the series ' fictional universe.
ये मीडिया रखा the मताधिकार क्रियाशील in the interim between the film trilogies.
The मताधिकार portrays a आकाशगंगा कि is वर्णित as far, far away in the distant past.
It commonly portrays Jedi as a प्रतिनिधित्व of शुभ, in विरोध साथ the सिथ, their evil counterpart.
Their weapon of choice, the lightsaber, is commonly पहचाना in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति.
The fictional universe also contains many themes, विशेषकर प्रभाव of दर्शनशास्त्र और धर्म.
The first film in the series was originally released on May 25, 1977, under the title Star Wars, by 20th Century फॉक्स, और became a विश्वव्यापी पॉप संस्कृति घटना, followed by दो सिक्वेल, released at three-year intervals.
Sixteen years after the रिलीज of the त्रयी 's फाइनल फिल्मी, the पहला in a नई prequel trilogy of films was released.
The three prequel films यहूद भी released at three-year intervals, with the final film of the trilogy released on May 19, 2005.
in अक्तूबर 2012, the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी कम्पनी acquired लुकासफ़िल्म लिये $ 4.05 अरब और घोषित that it would produce three new films, with the first film, Star Wars Episode VII, planned for release in 2015.
20th Century Fox still retains the distribution rights to the first two Star Wars trilogies, owning स्थाई अधिकारों लिये the असली फिल्मी एपीसोड iv : a नई आशा, जबकि पकड़कर the अधिकारों to एपीसोड i–iii, V and VI until May 2020.
Reactions to the original trilogy were mostly positive, with the last film होने माना the weakest, जबकि the प्रीक्वेल त्रयी प्राप्त a अधिक मिश्रित प्रतिक्रिया, साथ सबसे of the तारीफ़ being for the final movie, according to most review aggregator websites.
All six of the main films in the श्रेणी यहूद भी मनोनीत लिये or जीती अकादमी पुरस्कार.
All of the main films have been box office successes, with the overall box office revenue generated by the Star Wars films ( including the theatrical Star Wars : the क्लोन युद्धों ) totalling $ 4.49 अरब, बनाना it the third-highest-grossing film series.
The success has also led to अनेक re-releases in थिएटर लिये the series.
Plateletpheresis ( more accurately called thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis, though these names are rarely used ) is the process of collecting thrombocytes, अधिक commonly पुकारा प्लेटलेट्स, a घटक of रक्त शामिल in रक्त clotting.
The term specifically refers to the विधि of collecting the प्लेटलेट्स, जिससे is performed by a यंत्र प्रयुक्त in रक्त donation that separates the platelets and returns other portions of the blood to the donor.
platelet transfusion can be a life-saving कार्यविधि in preventing or treating गंभीर जटिलताओं from bleeding and hemorrhage in patients who have disorders manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( low platelet count ) or platelet dysfunction.
This process may also be used therapeutically to दावत विकार resulting in extraordinarily ऊँची platelet रिश्तो such as essential thrombocytosis.
in कंप्यूटर नेटवर्किंग, a बंदरगाहों is an application-specific or process-specific तन्त्र construct serving as a communications endpoint in a computer 's host operating system.
A port is associated with an ip पता of the मेजबान, as खूब as the प्रकार of प्रोटोकॉल used for communication.
The purpose of ports is to uniquely identify different applications or processes running on a सिंगल कंप्यूटर और thereby enable उन्हें to share a सिंगल शारीरिक कनेक्शन to a packet-switched network like the Internet.
The प्रोटोकॉल कि primarily उपयोग पोर्ट हैं the हस्तांतरण परत प्रोटोकॉल, such as the Transmission Control Protocol ( TCP ) and the User Datagram Protocol ( UDP ) of the Internet Protocol Suite.
A port is identified for each address and protocol by a 16-bit number, commonly ज्ञात as the बंदरगाहों number.
The बंदरगाहों क्रमांक, added to a कंप्यूटर 's ip पता, completes the destination address for a communications session.
That is, data packets are routed across the संजाल to a विशिष्ट गंतव्य ip पता, और तब, upon reaching the गंतव्य कंप्यूटर, हैं further routed to the specific process bound to the destination port number.
Note that it is the संयोजन of ip address and port number together that must be globally unique.
Thus, different IP addresses or protocols may use the same port number for संचार ; e.g., on a दिए मेजबान or इंटरफ़ेस यूडीपी और टीसीपी may उपयोग the same port number, or on a host with two interfaces, both addresses may be associated with a port having the same number.
Of the thousands of enumerated ports, about 250 well-known पोर्ट हैं सुरक्षित by सम्मेलन to पहचानो विशिष्ट सेवा types on a host.
In the client-server model of application architecture, ports are used to provide a multiplexing service on each server-side port क्रमांक कि संजाल क्लाइंट कनेक्ट to लिये सेवा दीक्षा, बाद जिससे संचार can be reestablished on अन्य connection-specific port numbers.
Area code 479 is the telephone area code serving thirteen काउंटी in उत्तरपश्चिम अरकंसास, सहित the शहरों of फोर्ट स्मिथ, Fayetteville, Springdale, Rogers and Bentonville : the second, third, fourth, eighth and tenth-largest cities in the state, respectively.
It was created in 2002 in a विभाजित इससे क्षेत्रफल कोड 501.
Area code 479 serves Benton, Carroll ( split with area code 870 ), Crawford, फ्रैंकलिन, जॉनसन, लोगन, मैडिसन, polk, पोप, स्कॉट, सेबेस्टियन, वॉशिंगटन और चिल्लाते काउंटी in Arkansas.
Arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal charging document in the presence of the defendant to inform the प्रतिवादी of the आरोप विरूद्ध उसे or उसके.
In response to arraignment, the अभियुक्त is अपेक्षित to डालें a plea.
Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions, लकिन वे generally शामिल `` अपराधी '', `` नहीं अपराधी '', और the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in bar ) setting out reasons why a trial can not proceed.
Pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no contest ) and the `` alford दलील `` हैं अनुमत in कुछ हालातों.
In England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Australia, arraignment is the पहला of ग्यारह चरण in a दण्ड विचारण, और involves the क्लर्क of the अदालत पढना आउट the indictment.
The defendant is asked whether he or वो pleads अपराधी or नहीं अपराधी to प्रत्येक charge.
In संघीय न्यायालयों of the संयुक्त States, arraignment takes place in two stages.
The first is called the initial arraignment and must take place within 48 hours of an individual 's arrest, 72 घंटों if the व्यक्तिगत थी गिरफ्तार on the वीकेंड और नहीं समर्थ to go पहले a judge until Monday.
During this arraignment the defendant is सूचित of the स्थगित विधिक आरोप और is सूचित of उसके or उसके सही to retain counsel.
The presiding judge also decides at what राशि, if कोई, to नियत bail.
During the second arraignment, a post-indictment arraignment or pia, the प्रतिवादी is अनुमत to enter a plea.
Geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 October 1400 ), known as the Father of English literature, is widely considered the महानतम अंग्रेज़ी कवि of the मध्य आयु और थी the पहला कवि to have महरूम दफ्न in कवि 's Corner of Westminster Abbey.
While he achieved fame दौरान उसके आजीवन as an लेखक, पारस, कीमियागर और astronomer, composing a वैज्ञानिक treatise on the astrolabe for his ten year-old son Lewis, Chaucer also maintained an active career in the civil service as a bureaucrat, courtier and diplomat.
Among his many works, which include the किताब of the duchess, the हाउस of कीर्ति, the लेजेंड of शुभ महिलाओं और troilus and Criseyde, he is best known today for The Canterbury Tales.
Chaucer is a crucial figure in developing the legitimacy of the vernacular, मध्य अंग्रेज़ी, at a समय जब the प्रबल साहित्यिक भाषाएं in England were French and Latin.
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979 was a major blizzard that affected northern Illinois और उत्तरपश्चिम इंडियाना, u.S. on जनवरी 13 – जनवरी 14, 1979.
of snow fell on जनवरी 13 अलोन, सेटिंग a नई रिकार्ड लिये हिम in one calendar day.
By the समाप्त of जनवरी 14, of हिम था fallen.
The cold weather and snowfall throughout the बाकी of जनवरी और फ़रवरी resulted in frozen tracks throughout the Chicago 'L ' system.
Commuters crowded onto CTA buses, quickly overwhelming capacity, resulting in usual बस commutes of 30-45 मिनट्स लेने up to अनेक घंटों.
To avoid huge snowdrifts in the streets, the overcrowded buses were obliged to लो numerous detours, adding अतिरिक्त समय to the commute.
Deployment of plows was significantly विलम्बित और जब वे आखिरकार appeared वे struggled to keep up with the snowfall.
Much of the snow remained unremoved throughout the अगला 2 महीने, causing जारी पब्लिक पारगमन delays and significant problems with trash collection.
The city 's inadequate response to the blizzard was blamed primarily on mayor माइकल bilandic, जो था assumed the पोस्ट बाद the 1976 मौत of Richard J. Daley.
Newspaper articles at the time blasted Bilandic ; Jane Byrne, Bilandic 's main political प्रतिद्वंद्वी in the लोकतांत्रिक प्राथमिक ( जो था previously worked साथ bilandic in the डाले प्रशासन और महरूम fired by bilandic जब the दो could नहीं मिलेंगी साथ ), capitalized on this and went on to defeat Bilandic in the February 27 primary.
The 12-hour clock is a time convention in which the 24 hours of the day are divided into two periods : a.m. ( इससे the लैटिन ante meridiem, अर्थ `` पहले midday '' ) और p.m. ( पोस्ट meridiem, `` बाद midday '' ).
Each period consists of 12 hours numbered : 12 ( एक्टिंग as zero ), 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11.
The 12-hour clock was developed over time from the mid-second मिलेनियम bc to the 16th सदी AD.
Health spending per capita, in $ US ppp-adjusted, साथ the us और कनाडा compared amongst अन्य पहला संसार राष्ट्र.
Comparison of the health care systems in Canada and the संयुक्त राज्य हैं प्रायः बना by सरकारी, पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य and public policy analysts.
The two countries had similar health care systems पहले कनाडा reformed इसके प्रणाली in the 1960s और 1970s.
The United States spends much अधिक धन on स्वास्थ्य परवाह than कनाडा, on दोनो a per-capita आधार and as a percentage of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita spending for health परवाह in कनाडा थी us $ 3,678 ; in the u.S., US $ 6,714.
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP on health care in कि साल ; कनाडा खर्च 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of स्वास्थ्य परवाह बिता in कनाडा थी financed by सरकारी, versus 46 % in the United States.
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending, और u.S. सरकारी व्यय on स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी बस under 83 % of total Canadian spending ( public and private ) though these statistics do n't take into account population differences.
Studies have आइये to अलग conclusions परिचय the result of this disparity in spending.
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` स्वास्थ्य outcomes may be श्रेष्ठ in मरीजों cared लिये in कनाडा बनाम the संयुक्त राज्य, लकिन मतभेद are not consistent. ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada, and its infant mortality rate is lower than that of the u.S., लकिन वहीँ is बहस परिचय the underlying causes of these differences.
One commonly cited comparison, the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '', जिससे प्रयुक्त a `` कम्पोजिट माप of उपलब्धि in the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य, the वितरण of स्वास्थ्य, the स्तर of responsiveness और निष्पक्षता of financial contribution '', ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations.
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '', or विशेषता of सेवा लिये individuals receiving उपचार, as 1st, compared with 7th for Canada.
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years लिये निवासियों of the us, बस comparing the जीवन प्रत्याशा of दो समूह साथ अलग जातिगत makeup and different obesity rates is likely not an effective way of determining which healthcare system is superior.
The WHO 's पढ़ाई विधि यहूद criticized by some analyses.
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy और शिशु मृत्यु चिह्नित the सबसे विश्वसनीय तरीके to compare nation-wide स्वास्थ्य परवाह, assuming the जनसांख्यिकी मेकअप is समान, a हाल रपट by the congressional शोध सेवा carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons.
Tarantulas comprise a group of often hairy और बहुत विशाल arachnids belonging to the theraphosidae परिवार of spiders, of which approximately 900 species have been identified.
This article only describes members of Theraphosidae, हालांकि कुछ अन्य सदस्यों of the वही suborder हैं commonly referred to as `` tarantulas ''.
सबसे प्रजाति of tarantulas हैं नहीं खतरनाक to इंसानो, और कुछ प्रजाति have become popular in the exotic pet trade.
The ton is a ईकाई of माप.
It has a long history and has acquired a number of meanings और उपयोग over the सालो.
It is used प्रधानतया as a ईकाई of वज़न, and as a unit of volume.
It can भी be प्रयुक्त as a माप of उर्जा, लिये truck classification, or as a colloquial term.
It is derived इससे the tun, the पद लागू to a barrel of the largest size.
This could contain a volume between 210 and 256 gallons ( 800 to 1000 L ), जिससे could तौल around 2,000 पाउंड ( 900 kg ) और occupy कुछ of space.
In the United Kingdom the ton is defined as ( avoirdupois पाउंड ).
From 1965 the UK embarked upon a programme of metrication and gradually introduced metric units, including the टन ( मीट्रिक ton ), a non-si मीट्रिक ईकाई पारिभाषित as 1000 kg.
The UK Weights and Measures Act 1985 explicitly excluded इससे उपयोग लिये व्यापार अनेक इकाई और शर्तें, सहित the ton और the term `` metric ton '' for `` tonne ''
In the United States और formerly कनाडा a ton is defined to be.
जहाँ भ्रम is संभावित, the 2240 lb ton is पुकारा `` long ton `` और the 2000 lb ton `` short ton `` ; the tonne is distinguished by its spelling, but usually pronounced the same as ton, hence the US term `` metric ton ''.
In the UK the final `` e '' of `` tonne '' can also be सुनाया ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ), or `` मीट्रिक ton '' जब it is जरुरी to मेक the भेद.
Where accuracy is जरूरी the सही पद जरूर be प्रयुक्त, लकिन लिये अनेक उद्देश्य इस is नहीं जरुरी : the मीट्रिक और long टन differ by only 1.6 %, and the short ton is within 11 % of both.
The ton is the heaviest unit of weight referred to in colloquial वाक.
The term `` ton '' is भी प्रयुक्त to refer to a क्रमांक of इकाई of volume, ranging from in capacity.
It can also be used as a unit of energy, expressed as an समतुल्य of कोयले जले, टीएनटी detonated, or in refrigeration, ice melted.
in ब्रिटेन, ton is प्रयुक्त in कठबोली in several contexts to mean `` 100 ''.
As a cost or a speed, a ton is widely समझा to be £100 or 100 mph.
The Stanley Cup ( ) is the championship trophy awarded annually to the National हॉकी लीग ( एनएचएल ) playoff विजेता बाद the निष्कर्ष of the स्टेनली Cup Finals.
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup, the trophy is named for Lord Stanley of Preston, then- Governor सामान्य of कनाडा, जो awarded it to कनाडा 's top-ranking amateur बर्फ hockey club, which the entire Stanley family supported, with the sons and daughters playing and promoting the game.
the पहला कप थी awarded in 1893 to Montreal HC.
In 1915, the दो पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी संगठन, the नेशनल हॉकी संघ ( नह ) और the प्रशांत coast हॉकी संघ ( pcha ), पहुँचे a सज्जनों 's अनुबंध in जिससे their respective champions would face each other for the Stanley Cup.
After a series of league mergers and folds, the Stanley `` Presentation कप '' थी स्थापित as the de facto चैंपियनशिप ट्रॉफी of the एनएचएल in 1926 और तब the de jure NHL championship prize in 1947.
वहीँ हैं दरअसल तीन स्टेनली cups : the original bowl of the `` Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup '', the authenticated `` Presentation Cup '', and the `` Replica Cup '' at the Hall of Fame.
The NHL रै कायम प्रभावी कंट्रोल over दोनो the ट्रॉफी itself और its associated trademarks.
nevertheless, the एनएचएल करता नहीं दरअसल अपना the trophy, but instead uses it by agreement with the two Trustees of the Cup.
The NHL has registered trademarks associated with the name and likeness of the स्टेनली कप, हालांकि the लीग 's सही to outright अपना trademarks संबद्ध साथ a ट्रॉफी it करता नहीं अपना रै महरूम विवादित by कुछ legal experts.
Unlike the trophies awarded by the अन्य तीन प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग of उत्तर अमेरिका, a नई स्टेनली Cup is not made each year ; winners keep it until a new champion is crowned.
It is unusual among ट्राफियां, in कि it रै the names of सब of the जीतना खिलाड़ी, कोच, प्रबन्धन, and club staff engraved on its chalice.
Initially, a new बैंड added प्रत्येक साल caused the ट्रॉफी to grow in आकार, earning the nickname `` Stovepipe Cup ''.
In 1958 the modern one-piece कप थी designed साथ a five-band बैरल जिससे could contain 13 winning teams per band.
To avoid the Stanley Cup from growing, जब the नीचे बैंड is पूरा, the oldest band is removed and preserved in the Hockey Hall of Fame, and a new blank band added to the bottom.
It has been referred to as the कप, रब स्टेनली 's कप, the पावन grail, or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as Lord Stanley 's Mug.
The Stanley Cup is surrounded by numerous legends and traditions, the oldest of जिससे is the celebratory पीने of शैम्पेन आउट of the कप by the winning team.
The original bowl was made of silver and is 18.5 सेण्टीमीटर ( 7.28 इंच ) in ऊँचाई और 29 सेण्टीमीटर ( 11.42 इंच ) in diameter.
The current Stanley कप, अव्वल साथ a नक़ल of the असली कटोरी, is बना of a चांदी और निकल मिश्रधातु ; it रै a height of 89.54 centimetres ( 35.25 inches ) and weighs 15.5 kilograms ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ).
Since the 1914–15 ऋतु, the कप रै महरूम जीती a संयुक्त 94 times by 18 active NHL teams and five defunct teams.
Prior to that, the चुनौती कप थी आयोजित by nine different teams.
The Montreal Canadiens have won the Cup a record 24 टाइम्स और हैं फिलहाल the पिछला canadian-based टोली in the एनएचएल to win the cup after winning it in 1993.
The स्टेनली कप थी नहीं awarded in 1919 क्युकी of a Spanish flu epidemic, and in 2005, as a consequence of the NHL lockout.
The Pineapple ( Ananas comosus ) is a tropical plant with edible multiple fruit consisting of coalesced जामुन, और the सबसे economically significant संयंत्र in the bromeliaceae परिवार.
Pineapples may be cultivated from a crown कटिंग of the फल, संभवतः flowering in 20–24 months and fruiting in the following six months.
Pineapple does not ripen significantly post-harvest.
Pineapples are consumed fresh, पकाया, juiced, और preserved, और हैं मिला in a wide array of cuisines.
In addition to consumption, in the Philippines the pineapple 's leaves are प्रयुक्त to उपज the वस्त्र रेशा piña - employed as a घटक of वॉल पेपर और furnishings, amongst अन्य uses.
In computer science, an पूर्णांक is a datum of अभिन्न आंकड़ा प्रकार, a आंकड़ा प्रकार which represents some finite subset of the mathematical integers.
Integral data types may be of different आकार और may or may नहीं be अनुमत to contain negative values.
Integers are commonly represented in a कंप्यूटर as a समूह of binary digits.
The size of the grouping varies so the नियत of पूर्णांक आकार उपलब्धियाँ varies between अलग types of computers.
Computer hardware nearly सदा provides a रास्ता to represent a प्रोसेसर पंजीकरण or मेमोरी address as an integer.
The गॉर्डन बांध in तस्मानिया is a large hydro facility, with an installed capacity of.
Hydroelectricity is the term referring to विद्युत उत्पन्न by hydropower ; the उत्पादन of विद्युत शक्ति through the उपयोग of the gravitational force of falling or flowing water.
It is the सबसे widely प्रयुक्त रूप of बेदर्दी उर्जा, हिसाब लिये 16 प्रतिशत of वैश्विक electricity generation – 3,427 terawatt-hours of electricity production in 2010, and is expected to increase about 3.1 % each year for the next 25 years.
Hydropower is produced in 150 countries, with the Asia-Pacific region generating 32 प्रतिशत of वैश्विक hydropower in 2010.
China is the largest hydroelectricity producer, with 721 terawatt-hours of उत्पादन in 2010, representing around 17 प्रतिशत of घरेलू electricity use.
There are now three hydroelectricity plants larger than 10 GW : the Three Gorges बांध in चीन, itaipu बांध आरपार the brazil/paraguay किनारा, और guri बांध in वेनेजुएला.
The cost of hydroelectricity is relatively low, बनाना it a प्रतिस्पर्धी सोर्स of बेदर्दी विद्युत.
The average cost of electricity from a हाइड्रो संयंत्र larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 U.S. cents per kilowatt-hour.
Hydro is also a flexible source of electricity चूंकि पौधे can be ramped up और bas बहुत जल्दी to adapt to बदलना उर्जा मांगे.
However, damming interrupts the flow of rivers and can नुक़सान लोकल ecosystems, और भवन विशाल dams और टंकी प्रायः involves displacing लोगों और वन्यजीव.
Once a hydroelectric complex is constructed, the project produces no direct waste, and has a considerably निम्नतर आउटपुट स्तर of the ग्रीनहाउस गैस कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड ( ) than चट्टान ईंधन powered energy plants.
Wine boy at a यूनानी symposium
The history of wine spans thousands of years and is closely intertwined साथ the इतिहास of कृषि, भोजन, civilization and humanity itself.
Archaeological evidence suggests that the earliest ज्ञात वाइन उत्पादन occurred in कया is अभी the देश of जॉर्जिया around 7000 bce, साथ अन्य notable साइट in वृहद इरान दिनाँक 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE, respectively.
The संसार 's oldest ज्ञात वाइनरी ( दिनाँक to 3000 bce ) थी खोजा in Areni-1 cave in a mountainous area of Armenia.
url_http.
increasingly साफ पुरातत्व प्रमाण indicates कि domestication of the grapevine took place during the Early Bronze Age in the Near East, Sumer and Egypt from around the third millennium BCE.
Evidence of the earliest wine production in Balkans has been uncovered at पुरातत्व साइट in उत्तरी यूनानियों ( मकदूनिया ), दिनाँक to 4500 BC.
These same sites also contain remnants of the संसार 's earliest प्रमाण of crushed grapes.
In Egypt, wine became a part of recorded इतिहास, playing an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in प्राचीन ceremonial जीवन.
Traces of wild wine dating इससे the दूसरी और पहला सहस्राब्दियों BCE have also been found in China.
मोरक्कन वाइन kasher label 1930
The Jewish परंपरा और उपयोग of कोषेर वाइन is डेटिंग वापस to biblical times.
The long history of the उपयोग और उत्पादन of वाइन throughout प्राचीन Israel is backed up by archeological evidence.
Within the Jewish diaspora communities all around the ग्लोब, the परंपरागत और धार्मिक उपयोग of कोषेर wine continued to this day.
Wine, linked in myth to Dionysus / Bacchus, थी आम in प्राचीन यूनानियों और रोम, और अनेक of आज 's प्रमुख wine-producing regions of पश्चिमी Europe were established with Phoenician and, later, Roman plantations.
Winemaking technology improved considerably during the समय of the रोमन साम्राज्य : अनेक अंगूर किस्में और cultivation तकनीकों यहूद ज्ञात ; the डिज़ाइन of the वाइन दबायें उन्नत ; and barrels were developed for storing and shipping wine.
Rashi, a medieval French rabbi and called the `` father '' of all टीका कि followed on the talmud और the tanakh, अर्जित उसके living as a vintner.
following the मनाही of रोम और इसके industrial-scale वाइन उत्पादन लिये निर्यात, the ईसाई गिरिजाघर in मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय also became a firm supporter of wine, necessary for celebration of the Catholic Mass. Whereas wine was forbidden in medieval Islamic cultures, its use in Christian libation was widely tolerated.
Geber and other Muslim chemists pioneered the आसवन of वाइन लिये इस्लामी औषधीय and industrial purposes such as perfume.
Wine production gradually increased, साथ खपत burgeoning from the 15th century onwards.
Wine production survived the devastating Phylloxera louse of 1887 और आखिरकार स्प्रेड to numerous regions throughout the world.
जिले of वेस्ट Bengal
The Indian state of West Bengal borders with Nepal, भूटान, बांग्लादेश और the भारतीय राज्य of बिहार, झारखण्ड, Odisha, Assam and Sikkim.
the हिमालय झूठ in the उत्तर of the राज्य and the Bay of Bengal is at the south.
In between them, the नदी गंगा बहती eastwards और its main distributary, the Hooghly River, flows south to reach the Bay of Bengal.
The Siliguri Corridor, which connects North-East India with rest of the इण्डिया, झूठ in the उत्तर बंगाल प्रदेश of the state.
Geographically, West Bengal is विभाजित into a किस्में of regions— दार्जिलिंग हिमालयी हिल प्रदेश, terai और द्वार प्रदेश, उत्तर Bengal plains, Rarh region, Western plateau and high lands, coastal plains, Sunderbans and the Ganges Delta.
In 1947, when India gained independence, the राज्य of वेस्ट बंगाल थी formed साथ 14 जिले, as प्रति विभाजन plan of the then Bengal province of British India.
The former princely state Koch Bihar joined as a ज़िला in 1950, और the पूर्व फ्रेंच एन्क्लेव chandannagore joined as भाग of the Hooghly district in 1954.
The States Reorganisation अधिनियम of 1956 led to जोड of पुरुलिया ज़िला to the state and to enlargement of West Dinajpur district.
Later, larger districts such as West Dinajpur, 24 परगना और मिदनापुर यहूद bifurcated.
वेस्ट बंगाल is अभी विभाजित into उन्नीस जिले under three divisions.
Districts are administered by District magistrates, और विभाजन हैं administered by डिवीजनल commissioners.
Kolkata, the capital of the राज्य, constitutes the कोलकाता district.
Other districts are further divided into प्रशासनिक इकाई ऐसे as subdivisions और ब्लॉक, administered by SDO and BDO, respectively.
The Panchayati Raj has a three-tier ढांचा in the state.
The atomic ईकाई is पुकारा a ग्राम पंचायत, जिससे is the Panchayat organization for a collection of villages.
The block-level संगठन हैं पुकारा पंचायत samiti, and the district-level organizations are named Zilla Parishad.
The Caribbean ( or ; ; ; or अधिक commonly antilles ) is a प्रदेश कि consists of the caribbean समुद्र, इसके आइलैंड्स ( कुछ घिरी by the Caribbean Sea and some bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean ), and the surrounding coasts.
The region is southeast of the Gulf of Mexico and the North American मेनलैंड, ईस्ट of सेंट्रल अमेरिका, और उत्तर of दक्षिण अमेरिका.
Situated largely on the Caribbean Plate, the region comprises अधिक than 700 आइलैंड्स, आइलेट, reefs, and cays.
( देखिए the सूची. )
These islands generally रूप द्वीप arcs कि delineate the पूर्वी और उत्तरी edges of the Caribbean Sea.
The Caribbean islands, consisting of the Greater Antilles on the north and the Lesser Antilles on the south and east ( including the Leeward Antilles ), are part of the somewhat larger वेस्ट इंडीज समूहीकरण, जिससे भी शामिल the lucayan द्वीपसमूह ( comprising the बहामा और turks और caicos आइलैंड्स ) उत्तर of the Greater Antilles and Caribbean Sea.
In a wider sense, the mainland countries of Belize and Guyana – historically and culturally भाग of the अंग्रेजों वेस्ट इंडीज – may be शामिल.
Geopolitically, the Caribbean islands are usually regarded as a subregion of North America and are व्यवस्थित into 30 territories सहित sovereign राज्य, विदेशी विभाग, and dependencies.
From January 3, 1958, to May 31, 1962, there was a short-lived country पुकारा the संघ of the वेस्ट इंडीज रचित of टेन english-speaking caribbean territories, सब of जिससे were then UK dependencies.
The West Indies cricket team continues to represent अनेक of those nations.
This is a list of the 221 towns और 13 शहरों in the u.S. state of New Hampshire.
For each town/city, the तालिका सूचियाँ the काउंटी to जिससे it belongs, इसके date of incorporation, its population according to the 2010 census, its form of government, and its principal villages.
Cities are indicated in boldface.
Cities and कस्बों हैं treated identically under state law.
Cities are just towns जिनकी रूप of सरकारी थी बदला by a खास act of the New Hampshire legislature.
However, towns currently are able to change their form of government by simple voter स्वीकृति of a नई नगरपालिका चार्टर, साथ अनेक of the अधिक populous towns having already done so.
The main slave रूट in मध्यकालीन Africa.
This article discusses systems, इतिहास, और प्रभाव of गुलामी भीतर Africa.
देखिए अरब स्लेव व्यापार, अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार, maafa, and Slavery in contemporary Africa for other discussions.
`` Slave हस्तांतरण in अफ़्रीकी ''.
Europeans usually did नहीं डालें the आंतरिक regions.
Slavery in अफ़्रीकी रै existed throughout the महाद्वीप लिये अनेक centuries, and continues in the current day.
Systems of servitude and slavery were आम in अनेक भाग of the महाद्वीप, as वे were in much of the ancient world.
In most African societies where slavery थी प्रचलित, the enslaved लोगों यहूद largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves.
When the अरब स्लेव व्यापार और अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार began, अनेक of the लोकल slave systems changed and began supplying captives for slave markets outside of Africa.
Slavery in historical अफ़्रीकी थी practiced in अनेक अलग फ़ॉर्म और कुछ of ये do नहीं clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world.
Debt गुलामी, enslavement of युद्ध captives, सैन्य गुलामी, और criminal slavery were all practiced in various parts of Africa.
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of Sub-Saharan अफ़्रीकी to अन्य regions, गुलामी थी a छोटी भाग of the आर्थिक जीवन of अनेक समाजों in अफ़्रीकी जबतक the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ).
Slave practices were again रूपांतरित साथ यूरोपीय colonization of Africa and the formal abolition of slavery in the early 1900s.
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10, 1969 ) is a former American football quarterback who spent the majority of उसके करियर साथ the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL, having played quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ), Green Bay Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ), नई यॉर्क jets ( 2008 ) और मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre started at the quarterback position for the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी मिसिसिपी लिये चार सालो पहले होने चयनित in the दूसरी गोलाकार of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to Green Bay on फ़रवरी 10, 1992, लिये the 19th चुनें in the 1992 NFL Draft.
Favre became the Packers ' starting क्वार्टरबैक in the चौथी खेल of the 1992 ऋतु, stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski, and started every game through the 2007 season.
He was traded to the New York jets और प्रारंभ at क्वार्टरबैक लिये the 2008 ऋतु पहले signing with the Vikings on August 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
He made an NFL record 297 consecutive starts ( 321 सहित playoffs ).
he is the तभी खिलाड़ी to जीत the ap सबसे मूल्यवान Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), पाँच nfc चैंपियनशिप खेल ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), और दो सुपर कटोरी दिखावे ( सुपर कटोरी xxxi, Super Bowl XXXII ), winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
He holds many NFL records, including most career touchdown passes, most career passing yards, most career pass completions, most career pass attempts, most career interceptions thrown, सबसे लगातार starts by a खिलाड़ी, सबसे लगातार starts by a क्वार्टरबैक, सबसे करियर victories as a starting quarterback, most sacked, and most fumbles.
He is also referred to by उसके उपनाम `` the gunslinger ''.
Salesforce.com Inc. is a वैश्विक एंटरप्राइज़ तन्त्र कम्पनी headquartered in San Francisco, California.
Though best known for its customer संबंध प्रबन्धन ( crm ) उत्पाद, salesforce रै भी विस्तारित into the `` social enterprise arena '' through acquisitions.
It is currently ranked the most innovative company in America by Forbes magazine, as well as number 27 in Fortunes पत्रिका 's 100 बेहतरीन कंपनियाँ to कार्य लिये in 2012.
As of April 2013, the company is ranked छठे in providing सेवाएं in विपणन और ग्राहक सेवा स्वचालन.
It is listed on the New York Stock Exchange और is a constituent of the s & p 500 अनुक्रमणिका.
Seahorse is the title दिए to 54 प्रजाति of समुद्री मछली in the genus Hippocampus.
`` Hippocampus '' comes इससे the प्राचीन यूनानी hippos अर्थ `` horse '' and kampos meaning `` sea monster ''.
Earth is the third planet इससे the सूर्य, और the densest और fifth-largest of the eight planets in the Solar System.
It is भी the largest of the Solar System 's four terrestrial planets.
It is sometimes referred to as the संसार or the ब्लू Planet.
Earth formed approximately 4.54 billion years ago, और जीवन appeared on इसके सतह भीतर इसके पहला अरब सालो.
Earth 's जीवमंडल तब significantly altered the वायुमंडलीय और अन्य मौलिक शारीरिक शर्तें, जिससे सक्रिय the अप्रसार of जीवों as खूब as the गठन of the ओज़ोन परत, जिससे साथ with Earth 's magnetic field blocked harmful solar radiation, and permitted formerly ocean-confined life to move safely to land.
The physical properties of the धरती, as खूब as इसके geological इतिहास और कक्षा, have allowed life to persist.
Estimates on how much longer the ग्रह होगा be समर्थ to continue to support life range from, to as long as.
Earth 's lithosphere is divided into several rigid खण्ड, or tectonic प्लेटों, कि migrate आरपार the सतह over अवधि of many millions of years.
About 71 % of the surface is covered by salt water oceans, with the remainder consisting of continents and islands which together have many झीलों और अन्य स्त्रोत of जल कि योगदान to the hydrosphere.
Earth 's डंडे हैं ज़्यादातर covered साथ बर्फ कि is the ठोस बर्फ of the Antarctic ice sheet and the sea ice that is the polar ice packs.
The planet 's आंतरिक remains क्रियाशील, साथ a ठोस आयरन भीतरी कोर, a liquid outer core that generates the magnetic field, and a thick layer of relatively solid mantle.
Earth gravitationally interacts साथ अन्य वस्तुएँ in स्पेस, विशेषकर the Sun and the Moon.
During one orbit around the Sun, the धरती घुमाता परिचय इसके अपना अक्ष 366.26 टाइम्स, creating 365.26 solar days, or one sidereal year.
The Earth 's axis of rotation is tilted 23.4° away from the perpendicular of its orbital प्लेन, producing मौसमी विसंगतियाँ on the ग्रह 's सतह साथ a काल of एक तीव्र year ( 365.24 solar days ).
The Moon is Earth 's तभी प्राकृतिक उपग्रह.
It began orbiting the धरती परिचय.
The Moon 's gravitational interaction with Earth stimulates ocean tides, stabilizes the अक्षीय झुकाव, और धीरे slows the planet 's rotation.
the ग्रह is घर to लाखो of species of life, including humans.
Both the mineral resources of the planet and the products of the biosphere contribute resources that हैं प्रयुक्त to support a वैश्विक इंसान population.
These निवासियों हैं grouped into परिचय 200 स्वतंत्र sovereign राज्य, जिससे interact through diplomacy, travel, trade, and military action.
Human cultures have विकसित अनेक दृश्य of the ग्रह, सहित इसके personification as a ग्रहीय देवता, इसके आकार as चपटा, its position as the center of the universe, and in the modern Gaia Principle, as a single, self-regulating organism in its own right.
The Magician from the waite-smith टैरो, जो is चित्रित using the वही टूल्स that modern Wiccans use.
In the neopagan धर्म of wicca, a दायरा of जादुई tools are used in ritual practice.
Each of these टूल्स रै अलग उपयोग और एसोसिएशन, और are used primarily to direct magical energies.
They are used at an वेदी, अंदर a magic circle.
In traditional Gardnerian Wicca, the tools are often divided into निजी टूल्स, जिससे हैं लिये उपयोग by, और स्वामित्व by, an व्यक्तिगत wiccan, और आउटटेक tools, used collectively by the coven.
This practice may derive partly from Masonic traditions ( such as the use of the Square and compasses ), इससे जिससे wicca draws कुछ सामग्री, और partly इससे the संस्कार of the hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn.
The latter made much use of material from मध्यकालीन grimoires ऐसे as the कुंजी of सुलेमान, जिससे रै अनेक illustrations of जादुई टूल्स और निर्देश लिये उनके तैयारी.
ठेठ eukaryotic cell.
Cellular respiration is the नियत of the metabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रक्रियाओं कि लो प्लेस in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ), and then release waste products.
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, जिससे ब्रेक विशाल अणुओं into छोटी ones, releasing उर्जा in the प्रक्रम as कमजोर so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
श्वसन is एक of the कुंजी तरीके a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity.
Cellular respiration is considered an ऊष्माक्षेपी रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रिया.
The overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs in the body, सबसे of जिससे हैं रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रियाएँ themselves.
Although technically, सेल्यूलर श्वसन is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell.
This अंतर is क्युकी it occurs in many separate steps.
While the overall प्रतिक्रिया is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, no सिंगल प्रतिक्रिया कि comprises it is a combustion reaction.
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in respiration शामिल शुगर, अमीनो acids और वसीय acids, और a आम oxidizing एजेंट ( इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ).
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger bonds to रूप, thereby transferring उर्जा लिये उपयोग by the कोशिका ) can तब be प्रयुक्त to ड्राइव प्रक्रियाओं requiring उर्जा, सहित जैवसंश्लेषण, locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes.
A stored-pressure आग extinguisher made by Amerex
A British fire extinguisher with ID sign, call point and fire action sign
A fire extinguisher, flame extinguisher, or simply an extinguisher, is an active fire सुरक्षा यंत्र प्रयुक्त to बुझा or कंट्रोल छोटी फ़ायर, प्रायः in emergency situations.
It is not intended for use on an out-of-control fire, such as one which has reached the ceiling, endangers the उपयोक्ता ( i.e., no एस्केप रूट, धुँआ, विस्फोट जोखिम, इत्यादि. ), or वरना requires the expertise of a fire department.
Typically, a fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held बेलनाकार दबाव पोत containing an एजेंट जिससे can be discharged to extinguish a fire.
In the United States, fire extinguishers, in सब इमारतें अन्य than घरों, हैं generally जरूरी to be सर्विस और inspected by a आग Protection service company at least annually.
Some jurisdictions आवश्यकता अधिक बारंबार सेवा लिये आग extinguishers.
The servicer places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the प्रकार of सेवा performed ( सालाना inspection, recharge, new fire extinguisher ) and when.
There are two main types of fire extinguishers : भंडारित दबाव and cartridge-operated.
In stored pressure units, the expellant is stored in the वही कक्ष as the firefighting एजेंट itself.
depending on the एजेंट प्रयुक्त, अलग propellants are used.
With dry chemical extinguishers, nitrogen is typically प्रयुक्त ; जल और झाग extinguishers typically use air.
Stored दबाव आग extinguishers हैं the सबसे common type.
Cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the expellant गैस in a पृथक कार्ट्रिज कि is punctured prior to निर्वहन, exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent.
This type is not as common, used primarily in areas such as industrial सुविधाएं, जहाँ वे प्राप्त higher-than-average उपयोग.
वे have the लाभ of सरल और संकेत रिचार्ज, allowing an ऑपरेटर to discharge the extinguisher, recharge it, and return to the fire in a reasonable amount of time.
Unlike stored pressure types, these extinguishers use संपीडित कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड बजाय of नाइट्रोजन, हालांकि नाइट्रोजन कारतूस हैं प्रयुक्त on कम तापमान ( -60 rated ) models.
Cartridge operated extinguishers हैं उपलब्धियाँ in शुष्क रासायनिक और शुष्क चूर्ण प्रकार in the u.S. और in जल, wetting एजेंट, झाग, शुष्क रासायनिक ( वर्ग ABC and B.C. ), and dry powder ( class D ) types in the rest of the world.
Fire extinguishers हैं further विभाजित into हैंडहेल्ड and cart-mounted, also called wheeled extinguishers.
Handheld extinguishers weigh from 0.5 to 14 kilograms ( 1 to 30 पाउंड ), और हैं hence, easily portable by hand.
Cart-mounted units typically तौल 23+ गामा ( 50+ pounds ).
These wheeled models are most commonly मिला at निर्माण साइट, विमानक्षेत्र runways, heliports, as well as docks and marinas.
Native Americans in the United राज्य हैं the स्वदेशी peoples in उत्तर अमेरिका भीतर the सीमाएँ of the present-day continental United States, Alaska, and the island state of Hawaii.
They हैं रचित of numerous, पृथक देशी अमरीकी जनजातियों और जातीय groups, many of which survive as intact political communities.
The terms used to refer to देशी अमेरिकी have been controversial.
According to a 1995 u.S. जनसांख्यिकी census_bureau ब्यूरो census_bureau नियत of घर साक्षात्कार, सबसे of the उत्तरदाताओं साथ an expressed वरीयता refer to themselves as American Indians ( or simply Indians ), and this term has been adopted by major newspapers and some academic groups ; however, this term does not typically include Native Hawaiians or certain Alaskan Natives, such as Aleut, Yup'ik, or Inuit peoples.
Since the end of the 15th century, the migration of Europeans to the Americas, और उनके importation of africans as स्लेव, रै led to सदियां of विरोध और समायोजन between Old and New World societies.
Europeans created most of the जल्दी लिखा ऐतिहासिक रिकार्ड परिचय Native Americans after the colonists ' immigration to the Americas.
Many Native Americans lived as hunter-gatherer समाजों और बताई उनके histories by oral traditions.
In many groups, महिलाओं carried आउट sophisticated cultivation of numerous varieties of staple crops : maize, beans and squash.
The स्वदेशी संस्कृतियों यहूद काफी अलग from those of the agrarian, proto-industrial, mostly Christian immigrants from western Eurasia.
Many Native cultures यहूद matrilineal ; the लोगों occupied lands for use of the entire community, for hunting or agriculture.
europeans at कि समय था patriarchal संस्कृतियों और था विकसित अवधारणाओं of individual property rights with respect to land that were extremely different.
The differences in cultures between the established Native Americans and immigrant Europeans, as well as shifting alliances among अलग राष्ट्र of प्रत्येक संस्कृति through the सदियां, caused extensive राजनैतिक टेंशन, जातीय हिंसा and social disruption.
the देशी अमेरिकी suffered ऊँची fatalities इससे the सम्पर्क साथ संक्रामक Eurasian diseases, to which they had no acquired immunity.
Epidemics after यूरोपीय सम्पर्क caused the महानतम घाटा of जीवन लिये स्वदेशी populations.
Estimates of the pre-Columbian जनसांख्यिकी of कया आज constitutes the u.S. vary significantly, ranging from 1 million to 18 million.
After the colonies revolted against Great ब्रिटेन और स्थापित the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका, अध्यक्ष जार्ज वॉशिंगटन और हेनरी नॉक्स conceived of the विचार of `` civilizing '' देशी Americans in preparation for assimilation as U.S. citizens.
Assimilation ( whether voluntary as साथ the choctaw, or मजबूर ) became a सतत नीति through American administrations.
During the 19th सदी, the विचारधारा of manifest नियति became integral to the American nationalist movement.
विस्तार of european-american populations to the वेस्ट बाद the American Revolution resulted in increasing pressure on Native American lands, warfare between the groups, and rising tensions.
In 1830, the U.S. Congress passed the Indian Removal Act, authorizing the government to relocate देशी अमेरिकी इससे उनके homelands भीतर स्थापित राज्य to lands वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी, accommodating European-American expansion.
The first European Americans to encounter the western interior जनजातियों यहूद generally फर व्यापारियों और trappers.
There were also Jesuit प्रचारकों क्रियाशील in the उत्तरी Tier.
As United States expansion reached into the American West, settler and खनिक प्रवासियों आए into increasing विरोध साथ the Great Basin, Great Plains, and other Western tribes.
These यहूद जटिल nomadic संस्कृतियों आधारित on horse culture and seasonal bison hunting.
They carried out strong resistance to United States incursions in the दशकों बाद the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध, in a श्रेणी of भारतीय युद्धों, जिससे यहूद बारंबार up until the 1890s, but continued into the 20th century.
The transcontinental railroad brought अधिक non-natives into जनजातीय जमीन in the west.
Over time, the U.S. forced a श्रेणी of treaties और जमीन cessions by the जनजातियों, और स्थापित reservations for them in many western states.
U.S. agents encouraged Native Americans to adopt European-style farming and similar pursuits, but European-American agricultural प्रौद्योगिकी of the समय थी अपर्याप्त लिये प्रायः शुष्क reservation lands.
In 1924, Native Americans who were not already u.S. नागरिकों यहूद granted नागरिकता by कॉंग्रेस.
समकालीन देशी अमेरिकी have a अद्वितीय संबंध साथ the संयुक्त राज्य क्युकी they may be members of nations, tribes, or bands with sovereignty and treaty rights.
Central अमेरिका ( ) is the सेंट्रल भौगोलिक region of the Americas.
It is the southernmost, isthmian portion of the उत्तर अमरीकी महाद्वीप, which connects with South America on the southeast.
When considered part of the unified continental model, it is माना a subcontinent.
Central America consists of seven countries : Belize, कोस्टा रिका, el साल्वाडोर, ग्वाटेमाला, होंडुरास, निकारागुआ, और पनामा.
Central America is part of the Mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot, जिससे extends इससे उत्तरी ग्वाटेमाला through सेंट्रल पनामा.
It is bordered by Mexico to the north, the caribbean समुद्र to the ईस्ट, the उत्तर प्रशांत समंदर to the वेस्ट, और कोलंबिया to the south-east.
Central America is an area of, or लगभग 0.1 % of the धरती 's surface.
As of 2009, इसके जनसांख्यिकी थी estimated at 41,739,000.
It has a density of 77 लोगों प्रति वर्गाकार kilometer.
Scrubs is an अमरीकी चिकित्सा comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by विधेयक लॉरेंस कि aired from October 2, 2001 to March 17, 2010 on NBC and later ABC.
the श्रेणी फ़ॉलो the जीवनदान of कर्मचारी at the fictional Sacred Heart teaching hospital.
The title is a play on surgical scrubs and a term for a low-ranking person because at the शुरूआत of the श्रेणी, सबसे of the प्रमुख वर्ण were medical interns.
The series features fast-paced screenplay, slapstick, and surreal vignettes presented mostly as the daydreams of the सेंट्रल अक्षर, dr. जॉन `` J.D. ''
Dorian, जो is निभाई by zach Braff.
Actors starring alongside Braff in the first eight seasons शामिल सारा chalke, डोनाल्ड faison, neil flynn, Ken Jenkins, John C. McGinley and Judy Reyes.
The series has भी प्रदर्शित अनेक अतिथि दिखावे by फिल्मी अभिनेताओं, ऐसे as ब्रेंडन Fraser, Heather Graham, and Colin Farrell.
In the ninth season, many new cast members were introduced और the दिखाएँ सेटिंग स्थानांतरित इससे a हॉस्पिटल to a चिकित्सा school.
Out of the original cast, only Braff, Faison and McGinley became नियमित डाल सदस्यों, जबकि the अन्य साथ the एक्सेप्शन of रेयेस, बना अतिथि दिखावे.
Braff appeared in six एपीसोड of the नवीं ऋतु पहले दूँ.
Kerry Bishé, Eliza Coupe, Dave Franco and Michael mosley became श्रेणी regulars साथ bishé बनने the दिखाएँ 's new narrator.
Scrubs premiered on अक्तूबर 2, 2001 on NBC.
The श्रेणी प्राप्त a Peabody Award in 2006.
दौरान the सातवाँ ऋतु, एनबीसी announced that it would not renew the show.
Shortly बाद the सातवाँ ऋतु finale, एबीसी घोषित it था उठाई up the eighth season of the series, which began January 6, 2009.
The ninth season premiered on दिसम्बर 1, 2009.
On may 14, 2010, एबीसी घोषित it था officially canceled Scrubs.
An 1817 Boulton & Watt beam blowing engine, used in netherton at the ironworks of m w grazebrook.
Re-erected on the a38 ( m ) in बर्मिंघम, UK
A steam engine is a ऊष्मा इंजन कि performs mechanical कार्य using steam as its working fluid.
Using boiling water to produce mechanical गति goes वापस परिचय 2,000 सालो, but early devices were not practical.
Since the late 1700s steam engines have become a प्रमुख सोर्स of mechanical शक्ति.
The first अनुप्रयोग यहूद निकालना जल इससे खानों.
In 1781 James Watt patented a steam इंजन कि उत्पादित निरन्तर rotative motion.
These 10 hp engines enabled a wide दायरा of निर्माण मशीनरी to be संचालित.
The इंजन could be sited anywhere कि जल और कोयले or लकडी ईंधन could be obtained.
By 1883, इंजन कि could provide 10,000 hp had become feasible.
Steam engines could also be applied to vehicles such as traction engines and the रेल इंजनों जिससे हैं commonly बस पुकारा भाप engines outside America.
The stationary steam engine was a key component of the Industrial Revolution, allowing कारखानों to locate जहाँ जल शक्ति थी अनुपलब्ध.
Today steam turbines generate about 90 % of the इलेक्ट्रिक शक्ति in the United States using a variety of heat sources.
Steam engines are external दहन इंजन, जहाँ the working द्रव is पृथक इससे the दहन products.
Non-combustion heat sources such as solar शक्ति, नाभिकीय शक्ति or geothermal energy may be used.
The आदर्श ऊष्मागतिक साईकिल प्रयुक्त to analyze this process is called the Rankine cycle.
in the साईकिल, जल is heated into भाप in a boiler until it reaches a high pressure.
जब विस्तारित through पिस्टन्स or turbines, mechanical work is done.
The reduced-pressure भाप is तब सघन और उत्तेजित वापस into the boiler.
In general usage, the term steam engine can refer to either the एकीकृत भाप पौधे ( सहित बायलरों इत्यादि. ) ऐसे as रेल भाप इंजनों और पोर्टेबल इंजन, or may refer to the पिस्टन or टर्बाइन machinery alone, as in the beam engine and stationary steam engine.
Specialized devices such as steam hammers and steam pile drivers are dependent on भाप supplied इससे a पृथक boiler.
A mill engine from stott पार्क bobbin मिल, cumbria, England
A steam locomotive in Germany.This class of engine was निर्मित in 1942 – 1950 और संचालित commercially until 1988.
`` Move Bitch '' ( edited version titled `` Move B***h '' or simply `` Move '' ) is the तीसरा आधिकारिक सिंगल इससे rapper ludacris ' album Word of Mouf.
the सिंगल features Mystikal and I-20.
the सिंगल पहुँचे # 10 on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 बनाना it ludacris 's पहला शीर्ष ten hit on the chart, it also reached # 3 on Hot Rap Tracks and # 3 on Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks.
Puerto Rican reggaeton duo maicol & मैनुएल sampled the सोंग on `` होय me levanté '' on उनके 2002 release Yakaleo.
The song is also featured in episode 2, श्रेणी एक of अंग्रेजों टीन comedy/drama Skins.
The song was also used by World कुश्ती entertainment superstar montel vontavious पोर्टर दौरान his short stint in Ring of Honor.
It was also used लिये अप्रैल शिकारी in विभिन्न स्वतंत्र circuits.
It was featured in the movie ATL starring t.i., और ' hancock, ' हालांकि in the latter, the साफ version was used.
A snippet of the सोंग is निभाई दौरान ट्रैफ़िक रिपोर्ट्स on अनेक रेडियो stations, usually carrying an urban/hip-hop format.
रिटायर्ड एनबीए स्टार और अभी ईएसपीएन विश्लेषक Jalen Rose is featured in the music video.
The song has been covered by चट्टान बैंड प्रारंभ ट्रबल, on their album Every Solution Has Its Problem.
It was featured on अंग्रेजों sitcom the inbetweeners जब the वर्ण Jay and Neil took Will on a 'pussy patrol ' in Jay 's red Nissan Micra.
It was sampled by लड़की बात on the पहला track of his album All Day, `` Oh No ''.
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states, known as the Commonwealth realms, और उनके territories और dependencies, और सिर of the 54-member राष्ट्रमंडल of Nations.
She is Supreme Governor of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड और, in कुछ of उसके realms, carries the शीर्षक of defender of the Faith as part of her full title.
On her accession on 6 फ़रवरी 1952, एलिज़ाबेथ became सिर of the राष्ट्रमंडल और महारानी regnant of सात independent Commonwealth countries : the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan and Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the क्रमांक of उसके realms varied as territories gained independence and some realms became republics.
At present, in addition to the पहला चार aforementioned देशों, एलिज़ाबेथ is महारानी of जमैका, बारबाडोस, the बहामा, हरा, पापुआ नई Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Her reign of years is फिलहाल the दूसरी longest लिये a अंग्रेजों monarch ; तभी महारानी विक्टोरिया रै reigned longer at over 63 years.
एलिज़ाबेथ थी born in लंदन and educated privately at home.
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of his bhai एडवर्ड viii, इससे जिससे समय वो थी the वारिस presumptive.
She began to undertake public duties दौरान the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, in जिससे वो परोसा in the auxiliary territorial Service.
In 1947, she शादीशुदा प्रिंस फिलिप, ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग, साथ whom she has four children : Charles, Anne, Andrew, and Edward.
Her coronation service took place in 1953 and was the पहला to be televised.
The Queen 's many historic visits and बैठक शामिल a राज्य विज़िट to the गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड और reciprocal visits to and from the Pope.
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms, such as devolution in the संयुक्त किंगडम और the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children, the births of उसके grandchildren, the प्रतिष्ठापन of the प्रिंस of वेल्स, और the जश्न of माइलस्टोन such as her Silver, Golden, and Diamond Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, respectively.
Major events in the महारानी 's शासनकाल have शामिल the परेशानियों in उत्तरी आयरलैंड, the Falklands War, wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56, the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle, Lord Mountbatten, the breakdown of her children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ), the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law, डायना, राजकुमारी of वेल्स, और the मौतों of उसके माँ और सिस्टर in 2002.
The महारानी रै occasionally faced कठोर दबायें आलोचना of the royal परिवार और रिपब्लिकन sentiments, but support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high.
Christianity is the largest धर्म सूचीबद्ध by australians in the नेशनल जनसांख्यिकी.
In the 2011 जनसांख्यिकी, 61.1 % of Australians were listed as Christian.
Australia has no official राज्य धर्म और the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई संविधान protects freedom of religion.
The presence of Christianity in Australia began साथ the आगमन of the पहला बेड़े of British convicts in 1788.
The religion grew to account for 96.1 % of the नेशनल जनसांख्यिकी at the समय of the संघ of ऑस्ट्रेलिया in 1901.
The anglican गिरिजाघर of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( formerly ज्ञात as the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड in Australia ) remained the largest denomination until 1986, when it was surpassed by the Roman Catholic Church in Australia.
Post-war multiculturalism and a decline in religious observance among some sections of the जनसांख्यिकी have diversified the जनसांख्यिकी of धर्म in Australia.
Of the roughly 61 % identifying as Christian in 2011, the largest denominations were either रोमन कैथोलिक ( 25 % ) or anglican ( 17 % ), साथ the तीसरा largest denomination होने the 5 % संबद्ध साथ the Uniting Church in Australia.
Post-war immigration has grown the numbers belonging to चर्च जैसे the यूनानी परंपरागत archdiocese of ऑस्ट्रेलिया and there are large and growing Pentecostal groups, such as Sydney 's Hillsong Church.
The त्यौहार of ईस्टर और क्रिसमस are public holidays in Australia.
Around a quarter of students attend church schools and Christian organisations are leading non-government providers of health and welfare सेवाएं through संगठनों जैसे कैथोलिक स्वास्थ्य ऑस्ट्रेलिया, anglicare, unitingcare ऑस्ट्रेलिया, the मोक्ष फौज और St Vincent de Paul Society.
Historically significant Australian Christians have शामिल रेव dr जॉन dunmore लैंग, संत मरियम mackillop, कैथरीन हेलेन spence, पादरी David Unaipon, the Reverend John Flynn and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls.
High profile contemporary Australian Christians include : Tim Costello Baptist minister and current CEO of World Vision Australia, Frank Brennan, Jesuit human rights lawyer, Cardinal George Pell, Catholic archbishop of सिडनी, फिलिप aspinall the वर्तमान anglican primate और archbishop of ब्रिसबेन, केविन रड, पूर्व मजदूर Prime Minister, and Tony Abbott, leader for the Federal Opposition Liberal Party.
Charter creating कॉलेजिएट स्कूल, जिससे became yale कॉलेज, October 9, 1701
Yale University is a private Ivy League शोध विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in नई Haven, Connecticut.
Founded in 1701 in the Colony of कनेक्टिकट, the विश्वविद्यालयों is the third-oldest संस्था of higher education in the United States.
Originally chartered as the `` Collegiate School '', the institution traces its roots to 17th-century clergymen जो sought to स्थापित a कॉलेज to ट्रैन clergy and political leaders for the colony.
In 1718, the College was renamed `` yale कॉलेज '' to सम्मान a तोहफा from Elihu Yale, a governor of the British East India Company.
In 1861, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences became the first U.S. institution to award the phd. yale became a founding सदस्य of the संघ of अमरीकी विश्वविद्यालयों in 1900.
Yale College was transformed, beginning in the 1930s, through the स्थापना of आवासीय कॉलेजों : 12 अभी मौजूद और दो अधिक हैं planned.
Yale employs over 1,100 faculty to teach and सलाह परिचय 5,300 undergraduate और 6,100 ग्रैजुएट और पेशेवर students.
Almost all tenured professors सिखा undergraduate पाठ्यक्रम, अधिक than 2,000 of which are offered annually.
The University 's assets include an endowment valued at $ 19.4 अरब, the second-largest of कोई अकादमिक institution in the world.
Yale 's प्रणाली of अधिक than दो दर्जन पुस्तकालयों holds 12.5 million volumes.
49 Nobel Laureates have महरूम संबद्ध साथ the विश्वविद्यालयों as विद्यार्थी, faculty, and staff.
Yale has उत्पादित अनेक notable alumni, सहित पाँच u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, 19 u.S. Supreme Court Justices, and several foreign heads of state.
At the graduate level, Yale Law स्कूल, yale स्कूल of आर्ट, और yale स्कूल of नाटक हैं consistently क्रमित the top programs in their field.
yale विधि स्कूल is the most selective law school in the United States.
Yale students compete intercollegiately as the yale bulldogs in the ncaa Division I Ivy League.
The oldest intercollegiate एथलेटिक इवेंट in the संयुक्त राज्य is the Yale-Harvard regatta.
Artemisia tridentata ( `` big sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an aromatic shrub from the family Asteraceae, which grows in arid and semi-arid conditions, throughout a range of cold desert, स्तान, और पहाड़ habitats in the intermountain वेस्ट of उत्तर अमेरिका.
The vernacular name `` sagebrush '' is also प्रयुक्त लिये अनेक सम्बन्धित सदस्यों of the genus artemisia, ऐसे as कैलिफ़ोर्निया sagebrush ( Artemisia californica ).
Big sagebrush और अन्य artemisia प्रजाति हैं the प्रबल पौधे आरपार विशाल portions of the ग्रेट Basin, covering some 422,000 square miles in 11 western U.S. & Canadian states.
It is the राज्य पुष्प of Nevada.
Sagebrush provides खाना और आवास लिये a किस्में of प्रजाति, ऐसे as sage grouse, pronghorn antelope, gray vireo, pygmy rabbit, and mule deer.
Big sagebrush was used as an herbal medicine by Native Americans throughout the Intermountain West of North america—especially लिये preventing संक्रमण in wounds, stopping आतंरिक bleeding, और treating headaches and colds.
Chemically, the क्रियाशील औषधीय constituents शामिल camphor, terpenoids, and tannins.
Several major खतरे मौजूद to ऋषि ब्रश ecosystems, सहित इंसान settlements, conversion to agricultural land, livestock grazing, invasive plant species, wildfires, and climate change.
Yahoo ! Mail is a फ़्री ईमेल सेवा offered by the अमरीकी ढूंढें इंजन company Yahoo !
It थी शुभारम्भ in 1997, और, according to comscore, Yahoo ! Mail is the third-largest web-based email service with 281 million users as of December 2012.
फिलहाल, याहू ! offers तीन versions of Yahoo ! Mail.
the परंपरागत `` याहू ! मेल क्लासिक '' continues the availability of the original interface introduced in 1997.
A version introduced in 2005 included a new Ajax interface, drag-and-drop सुविधाएँ, improved ढूंढें कार्यक्षमता, कुंजीपटल शॉर्टकट, address auto-complete, tabs, and other updated features.
In October 2010, Yahoo ! released a beta version of Yahoo ! Mail, जिससे शामिल सुधार to the डिज़ाइन, प्रदर्शन, ढूंढें कार्यक्षमता, और फेसबुक integration.
In May 2011, beta testing for the new version रोका, और it became the डिफॉल्ट इंटरफ़ेस लिये याहू ! Mail.
In early 2008, Yahoo ! began offering असीमित मेल भंडार to इसके उपयोक्ता in जवाब to heated प्रतियोगिता in the फ़्री web-mail मार्केट segment.
On June 27, 2009, याहू ! Messenger was integrated with Yahoo ! Mail.
Tacoma (, ) is a mid-sized शहरी बंदरगाहों नगर और the काउंटी सीट of पियर्स काउंटी, Washington, United States.
The city is on Washington 's Puget Sound, दक्षिणपश्चिम of सिएटल, पूर्वोत्तर of the राज्य पूंजी, ओलंपिया, और northwest of Mount Rainier National Park.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 198,397, according to the 2010 census.
Tacoma is the second-largest नगर in the puget ध्वनि क्षेत्रफल और the तीसरा largest in the state.
टकोमा भी serves as the बीच of कारोबार कार्यकलाप लिये the South Sound region, which has a population of around 1 million people.
Tacoma अपनाया इसके नाम बाद the आसपास माउंट rainier, originally called Mount Tahoma.
It is known as the `` City of नियति '' क्युकी the क्षेत्रफल थी चुनी to be the पश्चिमी टर्मिनस of the उत्तरी Pacific Railroad in the late 19th century.
The निर्णय of the रेलरोड was influenced by Tacoma 's neighboring deep-water harbor, Commencement Bay.
By connecting the खाड़ी साथ the रेलरोड टकोमा 's motto became `` When rails meet sails. ''
Today Commencement Bay serves the Port of Tacoma, a center of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार on the प्रशांत coast और वॉशिंगटन राज्य 's largest बंदरगाहों.
Like most central cities, टकोमा suffered a prolonged मनाही in the mid-20th सदी as a परिणाम of suburbanization and divestment.
Since the 1990s, developments in the downtown core include the University of Washington Tacoma ; Tacoma Link, the first modern electric light rail सेवा in the राज्य ; the राज्य 's उच्चतम घनत्व of आर्ट और इतिहास संग्रहालय ; और a लौटी शहरी waterfront, the thea foss Waterway.
With a long history of blue-collar labor politics — from the railroad workers of the 19th सदी, to the longshoremen of the 20th सदी, to the मजदूर तैयार मजदूर of आज — टकोमा रै long been known for its rough, gritty image.
A song about Tacoma, `` thrice सब अमरीकी '', by अमरीकी singer-songwriter और पूर्व निवासी neko मामला, describes it as `` a dusty old jewel in the South Puget Sound / where the factories churn / and the timber 's all cut down ''.
Tacoma-Pierce काउंटी रै महरूम नामित एक of the सबसे livable areas in the country.
Tacoma was also recently सूचीबद्ध as the 19th सबसे walkable city in the country.
In contrast, the city is भी क्रमित as the सबसे stressed-out नगर in the country in a 2004 survey.
In 2006, women 's magazine Self named Tacoma the `` सबसे sexually स्वस्थ नगर '' in the United States.
In 2012, The Advocate gave Tacoma the title of `` gayest नगर in अमेरिका '', in भाग क्युकी of the विशाल विविधता of पब्लिक कार्यालयों आयोजित, and Washington State passing a bill in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to marry.
Tacoma is प्रसिद्ध लिये the 1940 पतन of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge.
Chula Vista ( ; ) is the second largest city in the San Diego metropolitan area, the seventh largest नगर in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, the fourteenth largest नगर in the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, और the 77th-largest city in the United States.
The population was 243,916 as of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
स्तिथ बस इससे शहर सैन डिएगो और इससे the मैक्सिकन किनारा in the दक्षिण खाड़ी प्रदेश of the महानगर area, the city is at the center of one of the richest economic and culturally diverse zones in the United States.
Chula Vista is so named क्युकी of इसके दर्शनीय स्थान between the सैन डिएगो Bay and coastal mountain foothills.
संस्थापित in the जल्दी 19th सदी, तेज़ जनसांख्यिकी growth has recently been observed in the city.
As the second largest नगर in सैन डिएगो काउंटी, chula Vista has quickly become a destination popular to many tourists.
स्तिथ in the नगर is एक of अमेरिका 's few year-round संयुक्त राज्य ओलम्पिक प्रशिक्षण centers और लोकप्रिय पर्यटक गंतव्यों include Cricket Wireless Amphitheater, the Chula Vista marina, and the Chula Vista Nature Center.
Metes and bounds is a system or method of describing जमीन, रियल प्रॉपर्टी ( in कंट्रास्ट to निजी प्रॉपर्टी ) or रियल estate.
The system has been used in England for अनेक सदियां, और is स्टिल प्रयुक्त there in the definition of general boundaries.
By custom, it थी लागू in the असली तेरह colonies कि became the संयुक्त States, and in many other land jurisdictions based on English common law.
Typically the system uses physical features of the local भूगोल, साथ साथ दिशानिर्देश और दूरियाँ, to define और describe the सीमाएँ of a पार्सल of land.
The boundaries are वर्णित in a कार्यशील गद्य स्टाइल, working around the पार्सल in अनुक्रम, इससे a पाइंट of शुरूआत, returning वापस to the वही point ; compare with the oral ritual of beating the bounds.
It may include references to अन्य adjoining parcels ( और उनके स्वामी ), और it, in फेरे, could also be referred to in later surveys.
At the समय the वर्णन is compiled, it may have महरूम चिह्नित on the ground with permanent monuments placed where there were no suitable natural monuments.
The term `` metes '' refers to a boundary defined by the measurement of प्रत्येक सीधा चलाएं, निर्दिष्ट by a अलहदा between the टर्मिनल points, and an orientation or direction.
A direction may be a सरल कम्पास bearing, or a precise orientation determined by accurate survey methods.
The term `` bounds '' refers to a अधिक सामान्य boundary वर्णन, ऐसे as साथ a निश्चित watercourse, a स्टोन वॉल, an adjoining public road way, or an existing building.
The system is often used to define larger pieces of property ( e.g. farms ), and राजनैतिक subdivisions ( e.g. कस्बा सीमाएँ ) जहाँ precise परिभाषा is नहीं जरूरी or होता be दूर too महंगी, or previously designated boundaries can be incorporated into the description.
Sir Isaac Newton ( 25 December 164220 March 1727 ) was an English physicist और गणितज्ञ जो is widely regarded as एक of the सबसे influential वैज्ञानिकों of सब समय और as a कुंजी फिगर in the वैज्ञानिक revolution.
His book Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` Mathematical Principles of Natural दर्शनशास्त्र '' ), पहला प्रकाशित in 1687, रखी the मूलाधार for most of classical mechanics.
Newton also made seminal contributions to प्रकाशिकी और साझा क्रेडिट साथ गॉटफ्राइड लैबनिट्ज़ लिये the आविष्कार of the infinitesimal calculus.
Newton 's Principia formulated the laws of motion and universal gravitation कि वर्चस्व वैज्ञानिकों ' दृश्य of the शारीरिक ब्रह्मांड for the next three centuries.
It also demonstrated that the motion of objects on the धरती और कि of celestial लाशें could be वर्णित by the वही सिद्धान्त.
By deriving Kepler 's laws of ग्रहीय गति इससे उसके गणितीय वर्णन of गम्भीरता, न्यूटन removed the last doubts about the validity of the heliocentric model of the cosmos.
Newton built the first practical reflecting दूरदर्शी और विकसित a सिद्धान्त of रंग आधारित on the अवलोकन कि a प्रिज़्म decomposes श्वेत light into the many colours of the visible spectrum.
He also formulated an empirical law of कूलिंग और पढ़ाई the गति of ध्वनि.
In addition to his work on the कलन, as a गणितज्ञ न्यूटन contributed to the पढ़ाई of शक्ति श्रेणी, generalised the द्विपद प्रमेय to non-integer exponents, and developed Newton 's method for approximating the roots of a function.
Newton was a fellow of Trinity College and the second lucasian प्राध्यापक of गणित at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैम्ब्रिज.
He was a devout but unorthodox Christian and, unusually for a member of the Cambridge faculty, he refused to लो पावन आदेश in the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड, शायद क्युकी he privately अस्वीकृत the doctrine of trinitarianism.
In addition to his work on the mathematical sciences, Newton also dedicated much of his time to the study of alchemy और biblical कालक्रम, लकिन सबसे of उसके कार्य in those क्षेत्रों remained अप्रकाशित जबतक long बाद उसके मौत.
In his later life, Newton became president of the royal समाज.
He also served the अंग्रेजों सरकारी as वार्डन और निपुण of the Royal Mint.
Prof. Walter lewin explains न्यूटन 's law of gravitation in MIT course 8.01
Satellites और projectiles सब obey Newton 's law of gravitation
Newton 's law of universal gravitation states that every point mass in the ब्रह्मांड attracts प्रत्येक अन्य पाइंट द्रव्यमान साथ a फ़ोर्स that is directly proportional to the product of their masses and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between them.
( Separately it थी दिखाया कि विशाल spherically सममित masses आकर्षित और हैं आकर्षित as if सब उनके द्रव्यमान यहूद concentrated at their centers. )
This is a general physical law derived from अनुभवजन्य observations by कया न्यूटन पुकारा प्रेरण.
It is a part of शास्त्रीय यांत्रिकी और थी प्रतिपादित in न्यूटन 's कार्य philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` the Principia '' ), first published on 5 July 1687.
( When Newton 's book was presented in 1686 to the Royal Society, Robert Hooke made a claim that न्यूटन था प्राप्त the विलोम वर्गाकार विधि इससे उसे – देखिए इतिहास खण्ड below. )
In modern भाषा, the विधि राज्य the following:
Assuming SI units, F is measured in newtons ( n ), m1 और m2 in गामा ( kg ), r in मीटर ( m ), and the constant G is approximately equal to.
The value of the constant G was first accurately determined from the results of the Cavendish experiment conducted by the British scientist Henry Cavendish in 1798, हालांकि कैवेंडिश किया नहीं खुद गणना a numerical मान for G.
This experiment was also the first test of न्यूटन 's सिद्धान्त of gravitation between masses in the laboratory.
It took place 111 years after the प्रकाशन of न्यूटन 's प्रिन्सिपिया और 71 सालो बाद न्यूटन 's मौत, so none of Newton 's calculations could use the value of G ; instead he could only calculate a force relative to another force.
Newton 's law of gravitation resembles Coulomb 's law of विद्युत शक्तियां, जिससे is प्रयुक्त to गणना the परिमाण of विद्युत फ़ोर्स between two charged bodies.
Both are inverse-square laws, in which force is inversely आंशिक to the वर्गाकार of the अलहदा between the bodies.
Coulomb 's Law has the product of two charges in place of the product of the masses, and the electrostatic निरंतर in प्लेस of the गुरुत्वाकर्षक constant.
Newton 's law has since been superseded by Einstein 's theory of general आपेक्षिकता, लकिन it continues to be प्रयुक्त as an बेहतरीन सन्निकटन of the effects of gravity.
Relativity is required only when there is a need लिये चरम परिशुद्धता, or जब dealing साथ gravitation for extremely massive and dense objects.
White और रेड ध्वज, representing इराकी और अमरीकी मौतों, बैठना in the ग्रास चतुष्कोण of The Valley Library on the Corvallis, Oregon, campus of Oregon State University.
As part of the traveling Iraq Body Count exhibit from 2008 to 2009 ( not सम्बन्धित to इराकी देह गिनती प्रोजेक्ट ), the ध्वज उद्देश्य to `` उठाएँ जागरूकता of the इंसान cost of the Iraq War. ''
( may 2008 )
Casualties of the conflict in Iraq since 2003 ( beginning with the 2003 invasion of Iraq, and continuing with the ensuing occupation of Iraq, as well as the activities of the various armed groups operating in the country ) have come in many फ़ॉर्म, और the सटीकता of the सूचना उपलब्धियाँ on अलग प्रकार of इराकी युद्ध हताहत varies greatly.
The table below summarizes विभिन्न estimates of the Iraqi casualty figures.
For troops in the U.S.-led multinational coalition, the death toll is carefully tracked और अद्यतनीकृत रोज़, और the names और छायाचित्र of those मारे in action as well as in accidents have been published widely.
A total of 4,486 u.S. सैनिको यहूद मारे in इराकी between 2003 and 2012.
Regarding the Iraqis, however, information on both सैन्य और civilian हताहत is दोनो कम precise and less consistent.
Estimates of casualty levels are available from reporters on the झाँकी, इससे officials of शामिल संगठन, और इससे समूह कि summarize सूचना on incidents reported in the news media.
The word `` casualties `` in इसके सबसे सामान्य भाव शामिल the घायल as well as the dead.
Accounts of the number of coalition wounded vary widely, partly because it is not obvious what should be counted : should only those injuries serious पर्याप्त to put a सिपाही आउट of commission be included ?
Do illnesses or injuries caused by accidents count, or चाहिए the फ़ोकस be प्रतिबंधित to wounds caused by शत्रु engagement ?
स्त्रोत using अलग परिभाषाएं may arrive at very different numbers, and sometimes the precise definition is not clearly specified.
Asalto al coche ( डकैती of the coach ), by Francisco de Goya
A highwayman थी a चोर और brigand who preyed on travellers.
This type of outlaw usually travelled and robbed by घोड़ा, as compared to a footpad जो travelled और robbed on foot.
Mounted robbers यहूद widely माना to be socially superior to footpads.
Such robbers operated in Great Britain and Ireland from the elizabethan era जबतक the जल्दी 19th सदी.
The word highwayman is first known to be used in the year 1617 ; अन्य euphemisms शामिल `` शूरवीरों of the road '' and `` gentlemen of the road. ''
Two terms applied to 19th-century उत्तर अमरीकी highwaymen यहूद सड़क एजेंटों in कुछ उदाहरण लिये पहाड़ डाकुओं while in other cases the term is Rlallaala for mountain-based ruffians.
In the same time period in Australia, वे यहूद ज्ञात as bushrangers.
Earvin `` Magic '' Johnson, Jr. ( born August 14, 1959 ) is a retired American professional basketball player who निभाई पाइंट गार्ड लिये the लॉस एंजिल्स लेकर्स of the National Basketball Association ( NBA ).
After winning championships in high school and college, Johnson was चयनित पहला overall in the 1979 एनबीए ड्राफ्ट by the लेकर्स.
He won a championship and an NBA Finals Most Valuable Player पुरस्कार in उसके रुकी ऋतु, और जीती four more championships with the Lakers during the 1980s.
Johnson retired abruptly in 1991 after announcing that he had contracted HIV, but returned to खेल in the 1992 all-star खेल, जीतना the all-star mvp Award.
After protests from his fellow players, he retired again for four years, but returned in 1996, at आयु 36, to खेल 32 खेल लिये the लेकर्स पहले retiring लिये the तीसरा और फाइनल time.
जॉनसन 's करियर उपलब्धियाँ शामिल तीन एनबीए mvp पुरस्कार, nine NBA Finals appearances, twelve All-Star games, and ten All-NBA First and Second Team nominations.
He led the लीग in regular-season assists चार टाइम्स, और is the NBA 's all-time leader in average assists per game, at 11.2.
Johnson was a member of the `` Dream Team ``, the U.S. basketball टोली कि जीती the ओलम्पिक gold medal in 1992.
After leaving the NBA in 1992, Johnson formed the जादू जॉनसन all-stars, a barnstorming टोली कि travelled around the world playing exhibition games.
Johnson was honored as एक of the 50 महानतम खिलाड़ी in एनबीए इतिहास in 1996, and enshrined in the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2002.
He was rated the महानतम एनबीए पाइंट गार्ड of सब time by ESPN in 2007.
His friendship and rivalry with Boston सेल्टिक्स स्टार लैरी बर्ड, जिसको he faced in the 1979 ncaa फाइनल और three NBA championship series, were well documented.
Since his retirement, Johnson has been an advocate for HIV/ AIDS prevention and safe sex, as well as an entrepreneur, लोकसेवक, प्रसारणकर्ता और प्रेरक स्पीकर.
Johnson was a part-owner of the Lakers for several years, and was part of a समूह कि खरीदा the लॉस एंजिल्स Dodgers in 2012.
allium कोशिकाएं in अलग phases of the cell cycle
The cells of eukaryotes ( बाएँ ) और prokaryotes ( सही )
The cell is the मौलिक संरचनात्मक, कार्यात्मक और biological unit of all known living organisms.
It is the smallest unit of life that is वर्गीकृत as a जीना बात ( मगर वायरस, जिससे consists तभी इससे dna/rna covered by प्रोटीन and lipids ), and is often called the building block of life.
It consists of a जीवद्रव्य enclosed भीतर a झिल्ली, जिससे contains many biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids.
Organisms can be वर्गीकृत as एककोशिकीय ( consisting of a सिंगल कोशिका ; including most bacteria ) or multicellular ( including plants and animals ).
While the क्रमांक of कोशिकाएं in पौधे और पशु varies इससे प्रजाति to प्रजाति, Humans contain about 100 trillion ( 1014 ) cells.
Most plant और एनिमल कोशिकाएं हैं between 1 और 100 micrometres और therefore are visible only under the microscope.
The cell थी खोजा by रॉबर्ट Hooke in 1665.
The cell theory, first developed in 1839 by Matthias Jakob Schleiden and Theodor Schwann, states that all organisms are composed of one or more cells, that all cells come from preexisting cells, that vital कृत्यों of an सजीव occur भीतर कोशिकाएं, और कि सब कोशिकाएं contain the खानदानी सूचना जरुरी लिये regulating कोशिका कृत्यों and for transmitting information to the next generation of cells.
Cells emerged on ग्रह धरती at तनिक 4.0–4.3 billion years ago.
The word cell comes इससे the लैटिन गर्भगृह, अर्थ `` small room ''.
The descriptive term for the smallest living biological structure was coined by Robert Hooke in a किताब he प्रकाशित in 1665 जब he compared the कॉर्क कोशिकाएं he देखी through उसके सूक्ष्मदर्शी to the small rooms monks lived in.
Grecian सूत्र is a मेन 's बाल coloring उत्पाद in the United States.
Canada and Europe previously बैन the उत्पाद क्युकी of इसके use of lead acetate.
A motor स्कूटर 's सामने साथ an अव्यवहारिक क्रमांक और किस्में of headlamps, added for decorative purposes
A headlamp is a बल्ब संलग्न to the सामने of a vehicle to light the road ahead.
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile age, spurred by the ग्रेट disparity between दिन और nighttime ट्रैफ़िक fatalities : the u.S. नेशनल राजमार्ग ट्रैफ़िक सुरक्षा प्रशासन राज्य कि nearly हाफ of all traffic-related fatalities occur in the dark, despite only 25 % of traffic travelling during darkness.
While it is common for the term headlight to be used interchangeably in informal discussion, headlamp is the पद लिये the यंत्र itself, जबकि हेडलाइट properly refers to the बीम of लाइट उत्पादित and distributed by the device.
Other vehicles, such as trains and aircraft, हैं जरूरी to have headlamps.
Bicycle headlamps are often used on साइकिल, और हैं जरूरी in कुछ jurisdictions.
They can be powered by a बैटरी or a छोटी विद्युत सृजनकर्ता on the wheel.
Additionally automotive रात्रि दृष्टि प्रणालियों कार्य to संपूरक headlamps.
Women 's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed लिये महिलाओं और लड़कियों of अनेक समाजों विश्वव्यापी.
In some स्थान ये अधिकारों हैं institutionalized or समर्थित by law, local custom, and behaviour, whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed.
वे differ इससे broader धारणाएं of इंसान अधिकारों through दावा of an अंतर्निहित ऐतिहासिक and traditional bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include, though are not limited to, the right : to bodily integrity and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to मेला मजदूरी or बराबर अदा ; to अपना प्रॉपर्टी ; to शिक्षा ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital, parental and religious rights.
Caryn Elaine Johnson, best known as whoopi गोल्डबर्ग (, ( born नवम्बर 13, 1955 ) is an अमरीकी comedienne, actress, singer-songwriter, political activist, author and talk show host.
गोल्डबर्ग बना उसके फिल्मी डेब्यू in the रंग Purple ( 1985 ), playing Celie, a mistreated black woman in the Deep South.
She received a नामांकन लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Actress and won her first Golden Globe Award for her role in the film.
In 1990, she played Oda Mae Brown, a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक swayze ) save his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री ; इस बना गोल्डबर्ग तभी the दूसरी ब्लैक स्त्री in the इतिहास of the अकादमी पुरस्कार to जीत an एक्टिंग oscar—the पहला होने हैटी mcdaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939.
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2, the खिलाड़ी, बना in अमेरिका, कैसा स्टेला मिला उसके नाली वापस, लड़की, Interrupted and Rat Race.
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in स्टार ट्रेक : the अगला पीढी, as टेरी doolittle in jumpin ' जोकर फ्लैश, और as कार्मेन Tibideaux in Glee, as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
गोल्डबर्ग रै महरूम मनोनीत लिये 13 Emmy Awards for her work in television.
She थी co-producer of the लोकप्रिय game show Hollywood Squares from 1998 to 2004.
She has been the moderator of the दिन बात दिखाएँ the दृश्य since 2007.
Goldberg has a Grammy, two Daytime Emmys, दो सुनहरी ग्लोब्स, a टोनी ( लिये production, not acting ), and an Oscar.
In जोड, गोल्डबर्ग रै a अंग्रेजों अकादमी फिल्मी पुरस्कार, four People 's Choice Awards, and has been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
She is one of the few entertainers जो have जीती an एमी, ग्रैमी, Oscar, and Tony Award.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit संघ '' जिससे operates a प्रमुख पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग of 30 franchised member clubs, of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States.
Headquartered in New York City, the NHL is widely considered to be the premier professional ice hockey league in the संसार, और एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग in the संयुक्त States and Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest professional sports trophy in North America, is awarded annually to the लीग playoff चैंपियन at the समाप्त of प्रत्येक ऋतु.
The league was organized on November 26, 1917, in Montreal, Quebec, कनाडा, बाद the बर्खास्तगी of परिचालन of इसके पूर्ववर्ती organization, the National Hockey Association ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
It started with four teams and, through a श्रेणी of expansions, contractions, और relocations, the league is now composed of 30 active franchises.
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred was Canada, although the लीग रै अभी महरूम binational चूंकि 1924 जब it विस्तारित into the United States.
After a labour dispute कि led to the रद्दीकरण of the संपूर्ण 2004–05 ऋतु, the लीग resumed खेल अंतर्गत a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap.
In 2009, the एनएचएल enjoyed रिकार्ड highs in शर्तें of sponsorships, उपस्थिति, and television audiences.
The NHL draws many highly skilled खिलाड़ी इससे सब over the संसार और फिलहाल रै खिलाड़ी from about 20 different countries.
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the एनएचएल, over the पास्ट चार प्लस दशकों the percentages of us और यूरोपीय खिलाड़ी have increased दोनो क्युकी of the एनएचएल 's जारी विस्तार इससे six to thirty clubs since 1967, and the increased availability of highly skilled European players.
Maggots feeding on carrion.
A maggot is the larva of a fly ( order Diptera ) ; it is applied in particular to the larvae of Brachyceran flies, such as houseflies, चीज उड़ता, और blowflies, बल्कि than लार्वे of the nematocera, ऐसे as मच्छरों और क्रेन flies.
`` Maggot '' is not a technical term and should not be लिया as ऐसे ; in अनेक मानक पाठ्यपुस्तकों of कीटविज्ञान it करता नहीं appear in the index at all.
In many non-technical texts the term is प्रयुक्त लिये कीट लार्वे in सामान्य.
Other स्त्रोत have coined उनके अपना परिभाषाएं ; for example : ``...
The term applies to a ग्रब जब सब ट्रेस of limbs रै disappeared... '' और ``... Applied to the footless larvae of Dipters. ''
Maggot-like fly larvae are of wide importance in ecology and medicine ; among other roles, विभिन्न प्रजाति हैं prominent in रीसाइक्लिंग carrion और कचरा, attacking फसलों और foodstuffs, spreading microbial infections, and causing myiasis.
हेरोदेस (, hordos, यूनानी :, hērōdēs ), भी ज्ञात as हेरोदेस the ग्रेट ( 73/74 BCE – 4 BCE in Jericho ), was a Roman client king of Judea.
His epithet of `` the Great '' is widely disputed as he is described as `` a madman जो murdered उसके अपना परिवार और a ग्रेट अनेक rabbis ``.
He is also known for his colossal building projects in Jerusalem and elsewhere, including his expansion of the दूसरी टेम्पल in जेरूसलम ( sometimes referred to as हेरोदेस 's टेम्पल ) और the निर्माण of the port at Caesarea Maritima.
महत्वपूर्ण विवरण of उसके जीवनी हैं gleaned from the works of the 1st century CE Roman–Jewish historian Josephus Flavius.
The romans बना हेरोदेस 's बेटे, हेरोदेस archelaus, ethnarch of judea, Samaria, and Idumea ( biblical Edom ) from 4 BCE to 6 CE, referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea.
Archelaus was judged incompetent by the Roman सम्राट augustus जो तब संयुक्त samaria, judea उचित और idumea into iudaea province under rule of a prefect until age 41.
हेरोदेस 's अन्य बेटे हेरोदेस antipas थी tetrarch of Galilee from 4 BCE–39 CE.
ABO blood group antigens present on red blood कोशिकाएं और igm antibodies उपस्थित in the serum
The ABO blood group system is the most महत्वपूर्ण रक्त प्रकार प्रणाली ( or रक्त समूह प्रणाली ) in इंसान blood transfusion.
The associated anti-a और anti-b antibodies हैं प्रायः igm antibodies, which are usually produced in the first years of life by sensitization to environmental substances such as food, bacteria, and viruses.
ABO blood types are also present in कुछ अन्य पशु, लिये उदाहरण apes ऐसे as chimpanzees, bonobos, and gorillas.
Year 1907 ( MCMVII ) was a common year starting on मंगलवार ( कड़ी होगा प्रदर्शक the पूरा पंचांग ) of the gregorian पंचांग और a आम साल starting on सोमवार of the 13-day-slower Julian calendar.
Northville is an affluent नगर स्तिथ in और विभाजित by Oakland and Wayne counties in the U.S. state of Michigan.
The क्षेत्रफल is a उपनगरीय of महानगर Detroit.
the जनसांख्यिकी was 5,970 at the 2010 census.
Most of the city is in Oakland काउंटी, और is घिरी by the city of Novi.
The Wayne County portion is घिरी by northville township.
Northville is served by northville पब्लिक स्कूलों.
The city is located northeast of Ann Arbor and उत्तरपश्चिम of डेट्रॉयट.
Elaine Stritch ( born फ़रवरी 2, 1925 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री and vocalist.
She has appeared in numerous stage plays और musicals, विशेषता films, और अनेक टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम.
She is known for her performance of `` The Ladies Who Lunch '' in Stephen Sondheim 's 1970 musical Company, her 2001 one-woman show, ऐलेन stritch at स्वतंत्रता, और recently लिये उसके भूमिका as जोकर donaghy 's mother Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock.
She has been nominated for the Tony Award पाँच टाइम्स in विभिन्न categories.
Stritch is also a three-time एमी पुरस्कार विजेता.
Misfits is a British science fiction comedy-drama television show about a group of यंग अपराधियों sentenced to कार्य in a जातियाँ सेवा कार्यक्रम, जहाँ वे obtain supernatural powers after a strange electrical storm.
The series opened in 2009 और is फिलहाल जारी.
Antonia Thomas, Iwan rheon, लॉरेन socha, नाथन stewart-jarrett, और रॉबर्ट sheehan are introduced as Alisha Daniels, Simon Bellamy, Kelly Bailey, Curtis Donovan, and Nathan Young respectively.
Sheehan left बाद the दूसरी श्रेणी, replaced in the तीसरा by Joseph Gilgun as Rudy Wade.
After the fourth series was announced Rheon, Thomas and Socha had left their roles and would be replaced by new वर्ण कार्ला crome, नाथन mcmullen और मैट stokoe, as Jess, Finn and Alex respectively.
Midway through the fourth series, stewart-jarrett left while Natasha O'Keeffe joined the cast as Abbey Smith.
On 19 March 2013, Channel 4 announced at a दबायें इवेंट कि वे have नवीनीकृत misfits लिये a पांचवां and final series containing 8 episodes.
Brett lorenzo favre ( born अक्तूबर 10, 1969 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी football quarterback who spent the majority of his career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was a 20-year veteran of the एनएफएल, having निभाई क्वार्टरबैक लिये the अटलांटा falcons ( 1991 ), ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स ( 1992 – 2007 ), नई यॉर्क Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ).
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw लिये over 70,000 गज, over 500 touchdowns, over 300 interceptions, over 6,000 completions, and over 10,000 pass attempts.
Favre started at the quarterback स्थिति लिये the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी मिसिसिपी लिये चार सालो पहले होने चयनित in the दूसरी गोलाकार of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ).
He was traded to Green Bay on फ़रवरी 10, 1992, लिये the 19th चुनें in the 1992 NFL Draft.
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the fourth game of the 1992 ऋतु, stepping in लिये घायल क्वार्टरबैक डॉन majkowski, and started every game through the 2007 season.
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at क्वार्टरबैक लिये the 2008 ऋतु पहले हस्ताक्षर साथ the वाइकिंग्स on अगस्त 18, 2009 as their starting quarterback.
He made an एनएफएल रिकार्ड 297 लगातार starts ( 321 including playoffs ).
He is the only player to win the AP Most Valuable खिलाड़ी तीन लगातार टाइम्स ( 1995–97 ).
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2009 ), पाँच nfc चैंपियनशिप खेल ( 1995, 1996, 1997, 2007, 2009 ), and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI, Super Bowl XXXII ), winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ).
He holds many NFL records, including most career touchdown passes, most career passing yards, most career pass completions, सबसे करियर pass कोशिशें, सबसे करियर interceptions thrown, सबसे लगातार starts by a खिलाड़ी, सबसे लगातार starts by a क्वार्टरबैक, सबसे करियर victories as a starting quarterback, most sacked, and most fumbles.
He is भी referred to by उसके उपनाम `` The Gunslinger ''.
The following is a सूची of notable वायुयान hijackings around the world.
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as www or w3, commonly known as the web ), is a system of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet.
With a web browser, one can view web pages that may contain text, images, वीडियो, और अन्य मल्टीमीडिया, और navigate between उन्हें via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE, British engineer, कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक और at कि समय कर्मचारी of the cern, सर टिम berners-lee, अभी निदेशक of the संसार चौड़ी वेब consortium ( w3c ), wrote a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a European research organisation near जेनेवा straddling the किनारा between फ़्रांस और स्विट्ज़रलैंड, berners-lee और belgian कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट cailliau प्रस्तावित in 1990 to उपयोग हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to कड़ी और अभिगम सूचना of विभिन्न kinds as a वेब of nodes in which the user can browse at will '', and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year.
Wayne Lyman Morse ( October 20, 1900July 22, 1974 ) was a politician and attorney from Oregon, United States, known for his proclivity for opposing उसके पार्टियों ' नेतृत्व, और specifically लिये उसके विपक्ष to the वियतनाम War on constitutional grounds.
Born in Madison, Wisconsin, और शिक्षित at the विश्वविद्यालयों of wisconsin-madison और the विश्वविद्यालयों of मिनेसोटा विधि स्कूल, मोर्स स्थानांतरित to Oregon in 1930 and began teaching at the University of Oregon School of Law.
During World War II he was निर्वाचित to the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट as a रिपब्लिकन ; he became an Independent after Dwight D. Eisenhower 's election to the presidency in 1952.
While an independent, he नियत a रिकार्ड लिये performing the दूसरी longest one-person filibuster in the history of the Senate.
Morse joined the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी in 1955, और थी reelected twice while a member of that party.
Morse बना a ब्रैड चलाएं लिये the लोकतांत्रिक Party 's presidential nomination in 1960.
A few years later, Morse was one of तभी दो सीनेटरों जो opposed the गल्फ of tonkin रेज़ोल्यूशन, which authorized the president to take military action in Vietnam without a declaration of war.
He continued to speak out against the युद्ध in the ensuing सालो, और खोया उसके 1968 बोली लिये reelection to bob packwood, who criticized his strong opposition to the war.
Morse made दो अधिक बोलियों लिये reelection to the Senate before his death in 1974.
In parliamentary procedure, a गति to तालिका रै दो अलग और contradictory meanings:
In the United States, to table usually means the to lay [ the topic ] on the table or to मूव लिये postponement of विचार ; a प्रस्ताव to बर्खास्तगी consideration of a pending motion.
much कम प्रायः, it अर्थात् a गति to `` put on the तालिका '' : a प्रस्ताव to शुरू विचार ( or reconsideration ), a usage consistent with the rest of the English-speaking world.
In the rest of the English-speaking world such as the United Kingdom, to तालिका अर्थात् to मूव to प्लेस [ the टॉपिक ] upon the तालिका ( or to मूव to प्लेस on the तालिका ) : a प्रस्ताव to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ) of a proposal.
Both the American और the अंग्रेजों dialects have the भाव of `` to तालिका '' as to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on the तालिका or to कारण [ the topic ] to lie on the table.
The difference is the idea of what the तालिका is लिये, कि of a शेल्फ बंद to the side, or an active work bench.
The British meaning has the sense of the table as होने an क्रियाशील कार्य बेंच, साथ the टॉपिक होने the बीच of ध्यान, माना और discussed by all until it can be resolved, at which point it is taken off the 'table '.
The American sense is that the table is जैसे कि of a शेल्फ, अभिलेख, or long-term भंडार device, where the topic has been disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' and leaving it there.
खिलौना स्टोरी 3 is a 2010 अमरीकी 3d कंप्यूटर एनिमेटेड comedy-drama prison film, and the third installment in the Toy Story series.
It was produced by Pixar एनिमेशन studios और वितरित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी तस्वीरें.
निर्देशित by ली unkrich, the फिल्मी थी released विश्वव्यापी इससे जून through October in Disney Digital 3-D, RealD, and IMAX 3D.
खिलौना स्टोरी 3 थी भी the पहला film to be released theatrically with Dolby Surround 7.1 sound.
The screenplay was written by Michael Arndt, जबकि unkrich लिखा the स्टोरी साथ साथ जॉन lasseter और एंड्रयू stanton, respectively director and co-writer of the two first films.
The plot focuses on the toys Woody, Buzz lightyear, और उनके मित्रों dealing साथ an अनिश्चित future as their owner, Andy, prepares to leave for college.
Actors Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Joan Cusack, Don Rickles, Estelle Harris, John Ratzenberger, Wallace Shawn, Jeff pidgeon, jodi बेंसन, R. ली ermey, जॉन मॉरिस, और लॉरी metcalf reprised उनके voice-over भूमिकाएँ इससे the पिछला films.
Jim varney, जो निभाई slinky श्वान in the पहला दो films, and Joe Ranft, who portrayed Lenny and Wheezy, both died before production began on Toy Story 3.
The role of Slinky Dog was taken over by Blake Clark ( a friend of varney ), जबकि ranft 's वर्ण और विभिन्न अन्य यहूद लिखा आउट of the story.
New characters include प्रदर्शन by ned beatty, टिमोथी डाल्टन, क्रिस्टन schaal, bonnie Hunt, Whoopi Goldberg, Jeff Garlin, Richard Kind, and Michael Keaton.
The feature broke Shrek the Thirds record as the biggest opening दिन उत्तर अमरीकी सकल लिये an एनिमेटेड फिल्मी unadjusted लिये महंगाई, और a बिग खोलने साथ an unadjusted gross of $ 110,307,189.
It is also the highest-grossing opening वीकेंड लिये a पिक्चर्स फिल्मी, as खूब as the highest-grossing खोलने वीकेंड for a film to have opened in the month of June.
This is the highest-grossing film of 2010, दोनो in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा, और worldwide.
In early August, it became Pixar 's highest-grossing film at the North अमरीकी बक्सा दफ्तर ( surpassing ढूंढना nemo ), और the highest-grossing एनिमेटेड फिल्मी of सब समय विश्वव्यापी ( surpassing shrek 2 ) ; बाद कि month, Toy Story 3 became the first ever animated film in history to make over $ 1 billion worldwide.
It is फिलहाल the 10th-highest-grossing film of all time.
Toy Story 3 was nominated for five Academy पुरस्कार, सहित बेहतरीन चित्र, बेहतरीन adapted पटकथा, and Best Sound Editing.
It was the third animated film ( after Beauty और the जानवर और up ) to be मनोनीत लिये अकादमी पुरस्कार for Best Picture.
It जीती the पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन एनिमेटेड Feature and Best Original Song.
John Levell Starks ( born August 10, 1965 ) is an अमरीकी रिटायर्ड पेशेवर basketball shooting guard.
Starks was सूचीबद्ध at 6'5 '' और 190 पाउंड दौरान his NBA playing career.
Although he was not drafted in the 1988 NBA Draft after attending four कॉलेजों in उसके देशी ओक्लाहोमा, सहित ओक्लाहोमा राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों, he gained कीर्ति जबकि playing लिये the नई यॉर्क knicks of the National Basketball Association in the 1990s.
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory कार्ड स्वरूप लिये उपयोग in पोर्टेबल डिवाइस, ऐसे as मोबाईल फोन, डिजिटल कैमरे, GPS navigation devices, and tablet computers.
The Secure डिजिटल मानक is कायम by the sd कार्ड संघ ( SDA ).
SD technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands आरपार दर्जनों of उत्पाद श्रेणी और अधिक than 8,000 models.
The Secure Digital स्वरूप शामिल चार कार्ड परिवारों उपलब्धियाँ in three different form factors.
The four families are the original Standard-Capacity ( sdsc ), the high-capacity ( sdhc ), the extended-capacity ( sdxc ), और the SDIO, which combines input/output functions with data storage.
The three form factors are the original size, the `` मिनी '' आकार, और the `` सूक्ष्म '' आकार ( देखिए उदाहरण ).
There are many combinations of रूप कारकों and device families.
Electrically passive adapters allow the उपयोग of a छोटी कार्ड in a मेजबान device built to hold a larger card.
Host डिवाइस कि comply साथ नए संस्करण of the specification provide पिछड़ा संगतता and accept older SD cards, but this article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may offer वृहद क्षमता than the मेजबान यंत्र can handle.
A newer card may उपयोग a संचिका प्रणाली the मेजबान device can not navigate.
Use of an sdio कार्ड requires the मेजबान यंत्र be designed लिये the input/output functions the card provides.
The संगठन of the कार्ड थी बदला starting with the SDHC family.
Some vendors produced SDSC cards ऊपर 1 gb पहले the sda था मानकीकृत a विधि of doing so.
The SDA uses several trademarked लोगो to enforce अनुपालन साथ इसके specifications and assure users of compatibility.
ह्यूज जॉन mungo ग्रान्ट ( born 9 September 1960 ) is a British actor and film producer.
He has received a सुनहरी ग्लोब, a bafta, और an मानद César.
His films have earned more than US $ 2.4 अरब इससे 25 नाट्य रिलीज विश्वव्यापी.
Grant हासिल अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्टारडम बाद appearing in रिचर्ड कर्टिस 's successful Four Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ).
He used this breakthrough role as a frequent cinematic persona दौरान the 1990s, delivering कॉमिक प्रदर्शन in मुख्यधारा films like Mickey Blue Eyes ( 1999 ) and Notting Hill ( 1999 ).
By the turn of the 21st century, he had established खुद as a अग्रणी man skilled साथ a satirical comic talent.
Grant has expanded his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a cad in Bridget Jones 's डायरी ( 2001 ), परिचय a लड़के ( 2002 ), प्रेम दरअसल ( 2003 ), और अमरीकी dreamz ( 2006 ).
He later played विरूद्ध प्रकार साथ अनेक कैमियो भूमिकाएँ in the epic drama film Cloud Atlas ( 2012 ).
Within the film industry, Grant is cited as an anti-film स्टार जो approaches उसके भूमिकाएँ जैसे a अक्षर कर्ता, और कोशिशें to make his acting appear spontaneous.
Hallmarks of his comic skills include a nonchalant टच of विडंबना / sarcasm और पढ़ाई शारीरिक mannerisms as खूब as उसके precisely-timed संवाद delivery and facial expressions.
The entertainment media 's कवरेज of ग्रान्ट 's जीवन बंद the बिग स्क्रीन रै प्रायः overshadowed his work as a thespian.
He has been vocal about his अनादर लिये the व्यवसायिक of एक्टिंग, और in उसके तिरस्कार towards the culture of celebrity and hostility towards the media.
In a career spanning 30 सालो, ग्रान्ट रै repeatedly claimed कि एक्टिंग is नहीं a सच्चा calling but just a job he fell into.
the हान राजवंश ( ; ) ( 206 bc – 220 ad ) थी an इम्पीरियल राजवंश of चीन, preceded by the Qin Dynasty ( 221–207 BC ) and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms ( 220–280 AD ).
It was founded by the rebel leader Liu Bang, known मरणोपरांत as सम्राट gaozu of Han.
It was briefly interrupted by the xin राजवंश ( 9–23 ad ) of the पूर्व रीजेंट Wang Mang.
This interregnum separates the हान into दो अवधि : the पश्चिमी हान ( 206 bc – 9 ad ) और Eastern Han ( 25–220 AD ).
Spanning over four centuries, the period of the Han Dynasty is माना a सुनहरी आयु in चाइनीज इतिहास.
To this day, चीन 's बहुमत जातीय समूह refers to itself as the `` हान लोगों '' and the Chinese script is referred to as `` Han characters ``.
The Han साम्राज्य थी विभाजित into क्षेत्रों सीधे नियंत्रित by the सेंट्रल सरकारी, ज्ञात as commanderies, and a number of semi-autonomous kingdoms.
These kingdoms धीरे खोया सब vestiges of उनके स्वतंत्रता, विशेषकर following the Rebellion of the Seven States.
The Xiongnu, a nomadic कनफेडरेशन जिससे वर्चस्व the पूर्वी यूरेशियाई स्तान, पराजित the हान army in battle in 200 BC.
Following the defeat, a political marriage alliance was negotiated in जिससे the हान became the de facto अवर partner.
When, despite the treaty, the Xiongnu continued to raid Han borders, Emperor Wu of Han ( r. 141–87 bc ) शुभारम्भ अनेक सैन्य अभियान विरूद्ध them.
The ultimate Han victory in these wars eventually forced the xiongnu to accept vassal औकात as हान tributaries.
These campaigns expanded Han sovereignty into the Tarim Basin of Central एशिया और helped स्थापित the विशाल व्यापार संजाल ज्ञात as the रेशा सड़क, जिससे पहुँचे as दूर as the Mediterranean world.
Han forces managed to divide the Xiongnu into two स्पर्धा राष्ट्र, the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी xiongnu, और मजबूर the उत्तरी xiongnu आरपार the Ili River.
Despite these victories, the territories उत्तर of हान 's सीमायें यहूद जल्दी overrun by the nomadic Xianbei Confederation.
After 92 AD, the राजमहल हिजड़े increasingly शामिल themselves in अदालत राजनीती, engaging in हिंसक शक्ति struggles between the various consort clans of the empresses and empress dowagers, causing the Han 's ultimate downfall.
Imperial authority थी भी seriously challenged by विशाल daoist धार्मिक समाजों जिससे instigated the Yellow Turban Rebellion and the Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion.
Following the death of Emperor Ling ( r. 168–189 AD ), the palace eunuchs suffered wholesale massacre by military officers, allowing सदस्यों of the aristocracy और सैन्य राज्यपालों to become warlords और divide the empire.
When Cao Pi, King of वेई, usurped the सिंहासन इससे सम्राट xian, the Han Dynasty ceased to exist.
The Han Dynasty was an age of economic prosperity and saw a significant विकास of the धन अर्थव्यवस्था पहला स्थापित दौरान the Zhou Dynasty ( c. 1050–256 BC ).
The coinage जारी by the सेंट्रल सरकारी मिंट in 119 BC remained the standard coinage of China until the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907 AD ).
To pay for its military campaigns and the उपनिवेश of newly conquered frontier territories, the government nationalized the private salt and iron industries in 117 BC.
These government monopolies were repealed दौरान the पूर्वी हान काल, और the खोया revenue was recouped through heavily taxing private entrepreneurs.
The सम्राट थी at the शिखर of हान society.
He presided over the Han सरकारी लकिन साझा शक्ति साथ दोनो the धामों और नियुक्त मंत्रियों who came largely from the scholarly gentry class.
From the reign of Emperor Wu onward, the Chinese court officially sponsored Confucianism in education and court politics, synthesized with the cosmology of बाद विद्वानों ऐसे as डांग Zhongshu.
This policy endured until the fall of the Qing राजवंश in 1911 AD.
Science and technology during the Han period saw significant अग्रिम, सहित papermaking, the nautical परिचालन अरित्र, the उपयोग of ऋणात्मक संख्याएँ in mathematics, the raised-relief map, the hydraulic -powered armillary sphere for astronomy, and a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum.
Tourette syndrome ( भी पुकारा tourette 's सिंड्रोम, tourette 's विकार, गाइल्स de la tourette सिंड्रोम, gts or, more commonly, simply Tourette 's or TS ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric disorder with onset in childhood, characterized by multiple physical ( motor ) tics and at least one vocal ( phonic ) tic.
These tics characteristically मोम और wane, can be suppressed temporarily, and are preceded by a premonitory urge.
Tourette 's is defined as part of a spectrum of टिक विकार, जिससे शामिल क्षणिक और chronic tics.
Tourette 's was once considered a rare and विचित्र सिंड्रोम, सबसे प्रायः संबद्ध साथ the मुँह of obscene शब्द or socially अनुचित और अपमानजनक remarks ( coprolalia ), but this symptom is present in only a small minority of people with Tourette 's.
Tourette 's is no longer considered a rare condition, but it is not always correctly पहचाना क्युकी सबसे मामले हैं mild और the गंभीरता of tics decreases for most children as they pass through adolescence.
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of children ages 5 to 18 may have Tourette 's ; the व्यापकता of क्षणिक और दीर्घकालिक tics in school-age children is उच्चतर, साथ the अधिक आम tics of नजर blinking, coughing, throat clearing, sniffing, and facial movements.
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity, and tourette 's करता नहीं adversely affect intelligence or life expectancy.
Genetic and environmental factors play a role in the etiology of tourette 's, लकिन the सटीक कल्याणकारी हैं अनजान.
In सबसे मामले, दवा is unnecessary.
There is no प्रभावी उपचार लिये प्रत्येक मामला of tics, लकिन निश्चित medications and therapies can help when their use is warranted.
Education is an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of कोई उपचार योजना, और स्पष्टीकरण and reassurance alone are often sufficient treatment.
Comorbid conditions ( co-occurring diagnoses अन्य than tourette 's ) ऐसे as attention-deficit अतिसक्रियता विकार ( adhd ) और obsessive–compulsive disorder ( OCD ) are present in many patients seen in tertiary specialty clinics.
These other conditions प्रायः कारण अधिक कार्यात्मक पुतलियों to the व्यक्तिगत than the tics कि हैं the hallmark of tourette 's, hence it is important to correctly identify comorbid conditions and treat them.
The eponym was bestowed by Jean-Martin Charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on behalf of his resident, Georges Albert Édouard Brutus गाइल्स de la tourette ( 1859–1904 ), a फ्रेंच चिकित्सक और neurologist, who published an account of nine patients with Tourette 's in 1885.
सनबीम बैज.
Sunbeam was a marque registered by जॉन marston co. ltd of wolverhampton, England, in 1888.
The company first made bicycles, then motorcycles and cars from the लेट 19th सदी जबतक परिचय 1936, और लागू the marque to सब तीन फ़ॉर्म of transportation.
The company also manufactured एयरो इंजन in the पहला संसार War and 647 aircraft during the Second World War.
A Sunbeam was the first British car to win a Grand प्रिक्स रेस, और नियत a क्रमांक of जमीन गति रिकॉर्ड.
The company went into receivership in 1935 and was purchased by the rootes समूह, जिससे जारी to उपयोग the सनबीम marque.
Fox News Channel ( FNC ), also known as Fox News, is a केबल न्यूज चैनल स्वामित्व by the फॉक्स entertainment समूह, a subsidiary of न्यूज Corporation.
As of April 2009, the channel was available to 102 million households in the संयुक्त राज्य और to दर्शक internationally, प्रसारण primarily इससे इसके नई यॉर्क studios.
The channel was created by australian-american मीडिया mogul रुपर्ट मर्डोक, जो नियुक्त पूर्व एनबीसी executive Roger Ailes as its founding CEO.
It launched on October 7, 1996 to 17 लाख केबल subscribers.
It grew during the late 1990s and 2000s to become the प्रबल केबल न्यूज संजाल in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Critics have stated कि फॉक्स न्यूज चैनल promotes रूढ़िवादी political positions and biased reporting.
Commentators, news anchors, and reporters at Fox News Channel have responded that news reporting and political commentary operate independently of प्रत्येक अन्य, और have अस्वीकृत any bias in news reporting.
The mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the tooth located distally ( away from the midline of the face ) from both the mandibular दूसरी premolars of the मुँह लकिन mesial ( toward the midline of the फेस ) इससे दोनो mandibular दूसरी molars.
It is located on the mandibular ( निम्नतर ) मेहराब of the मुँह, और generally opposes the ऊर्ध्वहनु ( अपर ) पहला molars और the ऊर्ध्वहनु 2nd premolar in normal class I occlusion.
The function of this molar is समान to कि of सब molars in लिहाज़ to पीस होने the प्रिंसिपल कार्रवाई दौरान mastication, commonly known as chewing.
There are usually five well-developed cusps on mandibular पहला molars : दो on the buccal ( पक्ष निकटतम the गाल ), दो lingual ( पक्ष निकटतम the tongue ), and one distal.
There are ग्रेट मतभेद between the पतझड़ी ( baby ) mandibular molars and those of the permanent mandibular molars, even though their function are similar.
The permanent mandibular molars हैं नहीं माना to have कोई दांत कि precede it.
Despite being नामित molars, the पतझड़ी molars हैं followed by permanent premolars.
In the universal प्रणाली of संकेतन, the पतझड़ी mandibular पहला molars are designated by a letter written in uppercase.
The right deciduous mandibular first molar is ज्ञात as `` s '', और the बाएँ एक is ज्ञात as `` L ''.
The international notation has a अलग प्रणाली of संकेतन.
Thus, the सही पतझड़ी mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` 84 '', and the left one is known as `` 74 ''.
In the universal प्रणाली of संकेतन, the स्थाई mandibular पहला molars are designated by a number.
The सही स्थाई mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` 30 '', and the left one is known as `` 19 ''.
The Palmer notation uses a number in संयोजन साथ a प्रतीक designating in जिससे quadrant the tooth is found.
लिये इस दाँत, the बाएँ और सही पहला molars होता have the वही number, `` 6 '', but the right one would have the symbol, `` ┐ '', over it, while the left one would have, `` ┌ ''.
The international notation has a different numbering system than the previous two, and the right permanent mandibular first molar is ज्ञात as `` 46 '', और the बाएँ एक is ज्ञात as `` 36 ''.
Mandibular प्राथमिक पहला molars प्रायः have four pulp horns.
The first molar is प्रायः the पहला स्थाई tooth to erupt and has adult undertones.
Anatomy : The mandibular first molar has five cusps : the mesiobuccal ( MB, toward midline and cheek ), mesiolingual ( ML, toward midline and tongue ), distolingual ( DL, away from midline and towards जीभ ), distobuccal ( db, दूर इससे midline और toward गाल ), और distal ( d, दूर इससे midline ), सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम of अवरोहण आकार.
Listed in order of decreasing height they are : ML, dl, df, mf, और D. an आठवीं cusp थी मिला in a प्राथमिक दूसरी निम्नतर molar in an Argentinean child.
Viewed from the top of the tooth ( occlusal view ), the mandibular first molar is pentagonal ( five sided ) in आकार और tapers toward the lingual, साथ the पहलू होने the buccal सतह, the mesial सतह, the lingual surface, distal surface, and the distobuccal surface.
The occlusal सतह रै four grooves.
The central नाली is नहीं सीधा लकिन रनों bas the बीच of the tooth mesially to distally and contains four pits ( mesial, central, central, and distal ).
The distobuccal groove runs from the distal गड्ढे in the सेंट्रल नाली distobuccally separating the distal and distobuccal cusps.
The lingual groove runs from the more distal of the central pits in the सेंट्रल नाली toward the lingual सतह between the mesiolingual और distolingual cusps.
The buccal नाली रनों इससे the अधिक mesial of the सेंट्रल गड्ढों in the सेंट्रल groove toward the buccal surface between the mesiobuccal and distobuccal cusps ending in the buccal pit.
The portion of the central नाली between the सेंट्रल गड्ढों is termed the लुईस ऑफसेट और is अनिवार्य to खाता लिये the स्थितियाँ of the buccal और lingual डोले ( buccal groove being more mesial than the lingual groove while they are parallel ).
From the buccal ( buccal दृश्य ), two roots are present.
The distal root is generally straighter, although दोनो प्रायः have a पतला distal गोलाई.
The heights of contour on the mesial और distal सम्पर्क the सटा teeth and are located at the junction of the occlusal and middle thirds of the crown.
The Florida Legislature is the two houses कि अधिनियम as the राज्य विधानमंडल of the u.S. राज्य of फ्लोरिडा.
The Florida Constitution states that `` The legislative power of the राज्य shall be vested in a विधानमंडल of the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा, '' रचित of a सीनेट और हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
The legislature is seated at the फ्लोरिडा राज्य कैपिटल in tallahassee.
stained कांच चित्रण of Daniel interceding with Arioch, the king 's guard.
Arioch had been charged with killing all the हिकमत मेन बाद वे यहूद नहीं समर्थ to interpret nebuchadnezzar 's dream.
Daniel 2 is the दूसरी अध्याय of the किताब of Daniel in the Hebrew Bible.
The अध्याय 's सोर्स टेक्स्ट is predominantly written in Aramaic.
According to the text, nebuchadnezzar is the किंग of बाबुल जो is troubled by his dreams.
He मांगे an निर्वचन लिये उसके dreams or will have his mystic interpreters executed.
Daniel seeks दैवी अक्ल to interpret the किंग 's सपनो और गुणगान God with a short psalm.
God देता डेनियल a दृष्टि in the night to reveal the king 's dream.
Able to satisfy the king, Daniel is प्रचारित over the पूरे प्रांत of Babylon.
One comcast बीच, the मुख्यालय of Comcast in Philadelphia, PA.
The बूढ़ा comcast लोगो इससे 1969 to 1999, जब it थी replaced with the crescent logo.
The Comcast Corporation is an American provider of entertainment, सूचना और संचार उत्पाद और services.
It is the largest cable operator, one of the biggest mass media, घर अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाता, और तीसरा largest घर टेलीफोन सेवा प्रदाता in the संयुक्त राज्य, providing केबल टेलीविज़न, ब्रॉडबैंड अंतरजाल, टेलीफोन सेवा and in some areas home security ( including burglar alarms, surveillance cameras, fire alarm systems and home automation ) to both residential and commercial customers in 40 states and the District of Columbia.
The company is headquartered in फिलाडेल्फिया, Pennsylvania.
In 2011, Comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media conglomerate NBCUniversal from GE in January 2011, and began the प्रक्रम of खरीदना the बाकी 49 % on फ़रवरी 12, 2013, at a लागत of $ 16.7 billion.
It completed the purchase on कूच 19, 2013.
Comcast also has significant पकड़कर in अनेक केबल संजाल ( including E !
Entertainment टेलीविज़न, स्टाइल संजाल, g4, the गोल्फ़ चैनल और NBC Sports Network ), distribution ( ThePlatform ), and related businesses.
Comcast has been the subject of criticism for activities including its stance on net neutrality, as खूब as ग़रीब परिणाम on ग्राहक संतोष surveys.
Porcupines हैं rodents साथ a कोट of शार्प कांटे, or quills, that defend and camouflage them from predators.
They are indigenous to the Americas, दक्षिणी एशिया, और अफ़्रीकी.
Porcupines are the तीसरा largest of the rodents, पीछे the capybara and the beaver.
Most porcupines हैं परिचय long, साथ an long tail.
weighing, वे हैं rounded, large and slow.
Porcupines come in विभिन्न शेड्स of भूरा, धूसर, और the असामान्य white.
Porcupines ' spiny protection resembles that of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs और monotreme echidnas.
The common साही is a herbivore.
It eats leaves, herbs, टहनियों और ग्रीन पौधे जैसे skunk गोभी and clover and in the winter it may eat bark.
The उत्तर अमरीकी साही प्रायः climbs trees to find food.
The अफ़्रीकी साही is नहीं a climber and forages on the ground.
it is ज़्यादातर nocturnal, लकिन होगा sometimes forage for food in the day.
Porcupines have become a pest in कीनिया और हैं खाया as a कोमलता.
The name साही आता इससे मध्य फ्रेंच porc espin ( spined pig ).
A regional अमरीकी नाम लिये the एनिमल is quill pig.
First पेज of us पेटेंट 129,843 for Improvement in Lubricators for Steam-Engines
Elijah J. McCoy ( May 2, 1844 – अक्तूबर 10, 1929 ) थी a ब्लैक canadian-american आविष्कारक और इंजीनियर, जो थी notable for his 57 U.S. patents, most to do with lubrication of steam engines.
Born free in Canada, he returned as a five-year-old चाइल्ड साथ उसके परिवार to the संयुक्त States in 1847, where he lived for the rest of his life and became a US citizen.
Honda FCX स्पष्टता, a हाइड्रोजन ईंधन कोशिका demonstration vehicle introduced in 2008
A hydrogen गाडी is a गाडी कि उपयोग हाइड्रोजन as its onboard fuel for motive power.
Hydrogen वाहनों शामिल हाइड्रोजन fueled स्पेस rockets, as well as automobiles and other transportation vehicles.
The power plants of such vehicles convert the chemical energy of हाइड्रोजन to mechanical उर्जा either by burning हाइड्रोजन in an आतंरिक दहन इंजन, or by reacting hydrogen with oxygen in a fuel cell to run electric motors.
Widespread use of hydrogen for fueling परिवहन is a key element of a proposed hydrogen economy.
Hydrogen fuel does नहीं occur naturally on धरती and thus is not an energy source ; rather it is an energy carrier.
It is most frequently made from methane or other fossil fuels, but it can be produced using स्त्रोत ( ऐसे as हवा, सौर, or नाभिकीय ) कि हैं intermittent, too व्याप्त or too cumbersome to directly propel vehicles.
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen plants, using electrolysis of water, are exploring technologies to उद्धार लागत कम पर्याप्त, और quantities ग्रेट पर्याप्त, to compete with traditional energy sources.
Many companies are working to develop technologies that might efficiently exploit the संभावित of hydrogen energy for mobile uses.
The attraction of using hydrogen as an energy currency is that, if hydrogen is prepared बगैर using चट्टान ईंधन inputs, गाडी नोदन होता नहीं योगदान to कार्बन dioxide emissions.
The drawbacks of hydrogen use are high capital cost, low energy content per unit volume, high tankage weights, very high storage vessel pressures, the storage, transportation and filling of gaseous or liquid hydrogen in वाहनों, the विशाल निवेश in अवसंरचना कि होता be जरूरी to ईंधन वाहनों, और the inefficiency of उत्पादन प्रक्रियाओं.
Sacramento is the पूंजी नगर of the u.S. राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the सीट of सरकारी of Sacramento County.
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento नदी और the अमरीकी नदी in the उत्तरी portion of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's expansive Central Valley.
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest नगर in California and the 35th largest city in the United States.
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic center of the sacramento महानगर क्षेत्रफल जिससे शामिल सात काउंटी साथ an अनुमानित 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California after the Greater Los Angeles Area, San Francisco Bay Area, and the San Diego metropolitan क्षेत्रफल, as खूब as the 25th largest in the United States.
Sacramento was cited by समय पत्रिका as अमेरिका 's सबसे ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the प्रयत्न of the स्विस अप्रवासी John Sutter, Sr., his son John Sutter, Jr., and James W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection of sutter 's फोर्ट, जिससे थी स्थापित by sutter in 1839.
During the California Gold Rush, Sacramento was a प्रमुख वितरण पाइंट, a वाणिज्यिक और agricultural बीच, और a टर्मिनस लिये वैगन रेल, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the Pony Express, and the First Transcontinental Railroad.
California State University, Sacramento, more commonly known as Sacramento State or सैक राज्य, is the largest लोकल विश्वविद्यालयों.
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणाली.
Drexel विश्वविद्यालयों sacramento is स्तिथ in Downtown, Sacramento.
University of the प्रशांत 's mcgeorge School of Law is located in the Oak Park neighborhood.
In addition, the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, डेविस is स्तिथ in आसपास डेविस, west of the capital.
The UC Davis चिकित्सा बीच, a world-renowned research hospital, is located in the city of Sacramento.
The Apple Store is a chain of खुदरा स्टोर्स स्वामित्व और संचालित by Apple Inc., dealing in computers and consumer electronics.
The stores sell Macintosh personal computers, software, iPods, ipads, आईफ़ोन, third-party accessories, और अन्य उपभोक्ता electronics such as Apple TV.
Some high profile stores feature a थिएटर लिये प्रस्तुतियों और वर्कशॉप और a स्टुडियो लिये प्रशिक्षण साथ ठहराना उत्पाद ; सब स्टोर्स प्रस्ताव a प्रतिभाशाली बार लिये तकनीकी support and repairs, as well as free workshops available to the public.
Under the leadership of Ron Johnson, the former Senior Vice President of Retail Operations, the Apple Stores have, according to an आलेख in the नई यॉर्क टाइम्स, महरूम जिम्मेदार लिये `` [ turning ] the उबाऊ कंप्यूटर sales floor into a sleek playroom filled with gadgets ''.
, Apple has 405 स्टोर्स विश्वव्यापी, साथ वैश्विक बिक्री of अरब in merchandise in 2011, and they lead the United States retail market in terms of sales per unit area.
Steven Paul `` Steve '' Jobs ( ; February 24, 1955 – October 5, 2011 ) was an American उद्योगों और आविष्कारक, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the co-founder, अध्यक्ष, and CEO of Apple Inc.
Through Apple, he was widely recognized as a charismatic pioneer of the personal computer revolution and for his influential career in the computer and consumer electronics fields, transforming `` एक उद्योग बाद another, इससे कंप्यूटर और स्मार्टफ़ोन to म्यूज़िक और movies... ''
Jobs also co-founded and served as chief executive of Pixar Animation Studios ; he became a सदस्य of the फलक of निर्देशकों of the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी कम्पनी in 2006, when Disney acquired Pixar.
Jobs was among the first to see the commercial potential of Xerox PARC 's mouse -ड्राइवn आलेखीय उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस, जिससे led to the सृष्टि of the ठहराना लिसा और, एक year later, the Macintosh.
He also played a role in introducing the laserwriter, एक of the पहला widely उपलब्धियाँ लेज़र मुद्रक, to the market.
After a power संघर्ष साथ the फलक of निर्देशकों in 1985, कार्य बाएँ ठहराना and founded NeXT, a computer platform development company specializing in the higher-education and business markets.
In 1986, he acquired the कंप्यूटर ग्राफिक्स प्रभाग of लुकासफ़िल्म, जिससे थी spun off as Pixar.
he थी credited in खिलौना स्टोरी ( 1995 ) as an executive producer.
he परोसा as सीईओ और बहुमत shareholder until Disney 's purchase of Pixar in 2006.
In 1996, बाद ठहराना था विफल to उद्धार इसके ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली, copland, Gil Amelio turned to NeXT Computer, and the NeXTSTEP platform became the foundation for the Mac OS X.
Jobs returned to ठहराना as an सलाहकार, और took कंट्रोल of the company as an interim CEO.
Jobs brought ठहराना इससे निकट bankruptcy to profitability by 1998.
As the new CEO of the company, Jobs oversaw the development of the iMac, iTunes, iPod, iPhone, and iPad, and on the सेवाएं पक्ष, the कम्पनी 's ठहराना खुदरा स्टोर्स, itunes स्टोर और the app स्टोर.
The success of these products and services provided several years of stable financial returns, और propelled ठहराना to become the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान सरेआम traded company in 2011.
The reinvigoration of the कम्पनी is regarded by अनेक टीकाकारों as one of the greatest turnarounds in business history.
In 2003, Jobs was diagnosed साथ a अग्न्याशय neuroendocrine tumor.
हालांकि it थी initially treated, he reported a हार्मोन असंतुलन, underwent a जिगर प्रत्यारोपण in 2009, and appeared progressively thinner as his health declined.
On medical leave for most of 2011, Jobs resigned in August कि साल, और थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष of the फलक.
He died of respiratory arrest related to his metastatic ट्यूमर on अक्तूबर 5, 2011.
Jobs received a number of honors and public मान्यता लिये उसके influence in the प्रौद्योगिकी और म्यूज़िक industries.
He रै महरूम referred to as `` legendary '', a `` futurist '' or simply `` visionary '', and has been described as the `` Father of the Digital Revolution '', a `` master of innovation '', and a `` design perfectionist ''.
Entrance to section ( 52 ) of the कोलोसियम, साथ numerals स्टिल visible
Roman numerals, the numeric system in ancient Rome, uses combinations of अक्षर इससे the लैटिन वर्णमाला to signify मान.
the संख्याएँ 1 to 10 can be expressed in Roman numerals as follows:
और.
The रोमन numeral प्रणाली is a cousin of Etruscan numerals.
Use of रोमन numerals जारी बाद the मनाही of the Roman Empire.
From the 14th century on, Roman numerals began to be replaced in most contexts by more सुविधाजनक hindu-arabic numerals ; however इस प्रक्रम थी क्रमिक, और the उपयोग of रोमन numerals in कुछ minor applications continues to this day.
Effective नाभिकीय चार्ज Diagram
The effective nuclear charge ( often symbolize as or Z* ) is the जाल धनात्मक चार्ज अनुभवी by an electron in a multi-electron atom.
The term `` प्रभावी '' is प्रयुक्त क्युकी the shielding प्रभाव of negatively चार्ज electrons रोकता higher orbital electrons from experiencing the full nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons.
The effective nuclear charge अनुभवी by the बाहरी शेल electron is also called the core charge.
It is possible to determine the strength of the नाभिकीय चार्ज by looking at the oxidation number of the atom.
This is a सूची of एपीसोड इससे the डिस्कवरी चैनल series, Storm Chasers.
A rural stretch of I-5, with two lanes in each direction अलग by a विशाल grassy मध्य, और साथ cross-traffic सीमित to overpasses and underpasses
The Dwight D. आइज़नहावर नेशनल प्रणाली of अंतरराज्यीय और रक्षा राजमार्गों ( commonly ज्ञात as the Interstate Highway System, Interstate Freeway System, Interstate System, or simply the Interstate ) is a network of freeways that forms a part of the National Highway System of the United States.
The system is named for President Dwight D. आइज़नहावर, जो championed इसके गठन.
Construction was authorized by the संघीय सहायता राजमार्ग अधिनियम of 1956, और the असली portion was completed 35 years later.
The network has since been extended, and, it था a कुल लंबाई of, बनाना it the संसार 's दूसरी longest बाद चीन 's., परिचय one-quarter of सब गाडी मील चलित in the country use the Interstate system.
The cost of construction has been estimated at $ 425 billion ( in 2006 डॉलर ), बनाना it the `` largest पब्लिक works program since the Pyramids ``.
The system has contributed in shaping the United States into a world आर्थिक महाशक्ति और a अत्यधिक industrialized nation.
.eu is the country code top-level डोमेन ( cctld ) लिये the यूरोपीय Union ( EU ).
Launched on 7 December 2005, the domain is available लिये संगठनों in और निवासियों of eu member states.
The TLD is administered by EURid, a consortium originally consisting of the नेशनल cctld रजिस्ट्री ऑपरेटर of बेल्जियम, स्वीडन, and Italy, joined later by the national registry operator of the Czech Republic.
ट्रेडमार्क स्वामी यहूद समर्थ to submit पंजीकरण through a sunrise period, in an effort to prevent cybersquatting.
Full पंजीकरण प्रारंभ on 7 अप्रैल 2006.
Meister means master in German ( as in निपुण craftsman, or as an honorific शीर्षक such as Meister Eckhart ).
the शब्द is akin to maestro.
In sports, Meister is प्रयुक्त लिये the वर्तमान नेशनल, यूरोपीय or संसार चैंपियन ( deutscher Meister, *Europameister, Weltmeister ).
Many modern day जर्मनी पुलिस शक्तियां उपयोग the शीर्षक Meister.
During the Second World War, Meister was the उच्चतम आयोजिक रैंक of the ordnungspolizei.
meister रै महरूम उधार into अंग्रेज़ी slang, where it is used in compound nouns.
A person referred to as “Meister” is one who has extensive theoretical knowledge and व्यावहारिक कौशल in उसके व्यवसायिक, कारोबार, or कुछ अन्य दयालु of work or activity.
For example, a “puzzle-meister” होता be किसी highly skilled at solving puzzles.
These neologisms sometimes have a sarcastic intent ( for example, “stubble-meister” for किसी साथ a छोटी, neat दाढ़ी or “crier-meister” लिये किसी जो प्रायः cries ).
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is an American live-action children 's television series about teenagers साथ super-powers, आधारित on the 16th किश्त of the जापानी सुपर sentai मताधिकार, kyōryū sentai Zyuranger.
Both the show and its सम्बन्धित merchandise देखी unbridled overnight कामयाबी, बनने a staple of 1990s pop culture in mere months.
Under the original name, `` Mighty Morphin Power Rangers '' the series ran from 1993 to 1995 और शाखित the विशेषता फिल्मी mighty morphin शक्ति रेंजरों : the फिल्म.
The second and third seasons of the show drew on footage and तत्व इससे the सुपर sentai श्रेणी gosei sentai dairanger और निंजा sentai kakuranger क्रमशः, though the Zyuranger costumes were still used for the five main Rangers and several regular villains.
Only the mecha and the Kiba Ranger costume ( worn by the White Ranger ) were retained from dairanger लिये the दूसरी ऋतु, जबकि तभी the mecha इससे kakuranger यहूद प्रदर्शित in the third season.
However the Kakuranger वेशभूषा यहूद बाद प्रयुक्त लिये the शीर्षक वर्ण of the mini-series, Mighty Morphin Alien Rangers.
The series was produced by MMPR Productions, वितरित by saban entertainment, और aired on Fox Kids.
the दिखाएँ 's merchandise थी उत्पादित और distributed by Bandai Entertainment.
In 1996, the series was rebranded as the Power Rangers franchise ; renaming the श्रेणी प्रत्येक साल बाद, और using वेशभूषा, प्रॉप्स, और फुटेज इससे subsequent Super Sentai series, as well as changing the cast and storyline.
While an overarching storyline would continue जबतक शक्ति रेंजरों खोया आकाशगंगा, subsequent श्रेणी बाद MMPR are not sequels or spin-offs in the traditional sense.
In 2010, a re-version of Mighty Morphin Power रेंजरों, साथ a नई लोगो, कॉमिक book-referenced ग्राफिक्स, और अतिरिक्त वैकल्पिक special effects, was broadcast on ABC Kids, and Bandai produced brand new toys to coincide with the series.
Edgar Allan Poe ( born Edgar Poe ; January 19, 1809 – October 7, 1849 ) थी an अमरीकी लेखक, कवि, एडिटर और साहित्यिक critic, considered part of the American Romantic Movement.
Best known for his tales of mystery and the macabre, Poe was one of the earliest अमरीकी practitioners of the छोटी स्टोरी और is generally considered the inventor of the detective fiction genre.
He is further credited with contributing to the emerging genre of science fiction.
He was the first well-known American writer to try to earn a living through writing अलोन, resulting in a financially मुश्किल जीवन और करियर.
He was born as Edgar Poe in Boston, Massachusetts ; he was orphaned यंग जब उसके माँ died shortly बाद उसके पिता abandoned the परिवार.
पो थी लिया in by जॉन और frances Allan, of Richmond, Virginia, but they never formally adopted him.
He attended the विश्वविद्यालयों of वर्जिनिया लिये एक semester but left due to lack of money.
After enlisting in the Army and later failing as an अधिकारी 's cadet at वेस्ट पाइंट, पो parted ways with the Allans.
His publishing career began humbly, साथ an बेनाम संग्रहण of कविताएं, tamerlane and Other Poems ( 1827 ), credited only to `` a Bostonian ''.
Poe switched उसके फ़ोकस to गद्य और खर्च the अगला अनेक सालो working लिये साहित्यिक जर्नल्स और periodicals, becoming known for his own style of literary criticism.
His work forced उसे to मूव among अनेक शहरों, सहित बाल्टीमोर, Philadelphia, and New York City.
In Baltimore in 1835, he शादीशुदा वर्जिनिया clemm, उसके 13-year-old cousin.
In January 1845 Poe प्रकाशित उसके कविता, `` the रेवेन ``, to तत्काल success.
His wife died of तपेदिक दो years after its publication.
He began planning to produce his own journal, The Penn ( later renamed The स्टाइलस ), हालांकि he died पहले it could be उत्पादित.
On October 7, 1849, at age 40, Poe died in बाल्टीमोर ; the कारण of उसके मौत is अनजान और रै been variously attributed to alcohol, brain congestion, cholera, drugs, heart disease, rabies, suicide, tuberculosis, and other agents.
Poe and his works influenced literature in the United राज्य और around the संसार, as खूब as in specialized फ़ील्ड, ऐसे as cosmology and cryptography.
Poe and his work appear throughout लोकप्रिय संस्कृति in साहित्य, music, films, and television.
A क्रमांक of उसके घरों हैं समर्पित museums today.
The Mystery Writers of America present an सालाना पुरस्कार ज्ञात as the एडगर पुरस्कार लिये विशिष्ट work in the mystery genre.
Lions are obligate carnivores ; वे आवश्यकता up to सात गामा ( 15 lbs ) of meat per day.
A major component of their diet is the flesh of विशाल स्तनधारियों, जैसे इस African buffalo.
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat eater ' ( Latin, caro अर्थ 'meat ' or 'flesh ' और vorare अर्थ 'to devour ' ) is an सजीव that derives its energy and nutrient requirements from a diet consisting mainly or exclusively of animal tissue, whether through predation or scavenging.
Animals that depend solely on एनिमल flesh लिये उनके nutrient आवश्यकताएँ हैं माना carnivores जबकि those that also consume non-animal food are considered carnivores.
Omnivores also consume both एनिमल और non-animal खाना, और अलावा इससे the अधिक सामान्य परिभाषा, वहीँ is no clearly पारिभाषित अनुपात of संयंत्र to एनिमल सामग्री कि would distinguish a facultative carnivore from an omnivore.
A carnivore कि sits at the शीर्ष of the foodchain is an apex predator.
Plants that capture and डाइजेस्ट कीट हैं पुकारा मांसाहारी plants.
Similarly, fungi that capture microscopic पशु हैं प्रायः पुकारा मांसाहारी fungi.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an international association football competition contested by the senior men 's national टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( फीफा ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, मगर in 1942 और 1946 जब it was not held because of the Second World War.
the वर्तमान champions हैं स्पेन, जो won the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय a माह ; इस phase is प्रायः called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding तीन सालो, is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been won by eight अलग नेशनल टीमों.
Brazil have won five times, and they हैं the तभी टोली to have निभाई in every tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with four titles ; जर्मनी, साथ तीन शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे, साथ दो शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और इंग्लैण्ड, फ़्रांस, and Spain, with one title each.
the संसार कप is the संसार 's सबसे widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The अगला तीन संसार cups होगा be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
नायक is an अमरीकी विज्ञान fiction टेलीविज़न नाटक श्रेणी निर्मित by टिम क्रिंग कि appeared on NBC for four seasons from September 25, 2006 through February 8, 2010.
The series tells the कहानियां of ordinary लोगों जो discover superhuman abilities, और how these abilities take effect in the characters ' lives.
The series emulates the aesthetic style and storytelling of American comic books, using multi-episode story arcs कि निर्माण upon a larger, अधिक encompassing चाप.
The series was produced by Tailwind प्रोडक्शन्स in संघ साथ सार्वभौमिक मीडिया Studios.
It was फिल्माया primarily in लॉस Angeles, California.
Four पूरा सीज़न aired, समाप्ति on February 8, 2010.
The critically acclaimed first season had a run of 23 episodes and garnered an average of 14.3 लाख दर्शक in the संयुक्त राज्य, receiving the उच्चतम दरजा लिये an एनबीसी नाटक प्रीमियर in five years.
The second season of Heroes attracted an औसत of 13.1 लाख दर्शक in the u.S., और चिह्नित एनबीसी 's एकमात्र श्रेणी among the top 20 ranked programs in total viewership for the 2007–2008 season.
नायक रै अर्जित a क्रमांक of पुरस्कार और nominations, सहित प्राइमटाइम एमी पुरस्कार, Golden Globes, People 's Choice Awards and British Academy Television Awards.
An ऑनलाइन एक्सटेंशन of the श्रेणी, नायक 360 अनुभव, बाद rebranded as नायक evolutions, was created to explore the Heroes universe and provides insight into the show 's mythology.
Other official Heroes media include magazines, action figures, tie-in and interactive websites, a मोबाईल खेल, a अनोखा, कपडे और अन्य merchandise.
In the fall of 2008, एनबीसी डिजिटल entertainment released a श्रेणी of ऑनलाइन सामग्री लिये the गर्मियाँ, सहित more original web content, wireless iTV interactivity, graphic novels available for mobile viewing and webisodes.
एनबीसी घोषित नायक रद्दीकरण on May 14, 2010.
Afterward, the network considered बनाना a टेलीविज़न खास इवेंट to conclude the श्रेणी ; however, on सितंबर 9, 2010, NBC announced the decision to stop any further development of the Heroes franchise.
Tim Kring then suggested that the व्यापक आधार of नायक storylines अनुमत लिये the मताधिकार to return for fans, but he did not specify when or in what media format.
On April 17, 2013, tv लकीर reported कि MSN was in talks to revive the series with a new cast.
John pierpont `` J. P. ''
Morgan ( अप्रैल 17, 1837 – कूच 31, 1913 ) थी an अमरीकी फाइनेंसर, banker, philanthropist and art collector who dominated corporate finance and industrial consolidation during his time.
In 1892 मॉर्गन arranged the विलय of एडिसन General Electric and Thomson-Houston Electric Company to form General Electric.
After financing the creation of the Federal Steel Company, he merged in 1901 with the Carnegie स्टील कम्पनी और अनेक अन्य स्टील और आयरन व्यवसायों, सहित संचित स्टील और तार कम्पनी स्वामित्व by विलियम Edenborn, to form the United States Steel Corporation.
Morgan died in रोम, इटली, in उसके नींद in 1913 at the आयु of 75, leaving उसके सौभाग्य and business to his son, John Pierpont `` Jack '' Morgan, Jr., and bequeathing his mansion and large book collections to The Morgan Library & Museum in New York.
at the ऊँचाई of मॉर्गन 's करियर दौरान the early 1900s, he and his partners had financial investments in many large corporations and were accused by critics of controlling the nation 's high finance.
He directed the बैंकिंग गठबन्धन कि रोका the Panic of 1907.
He was the leading financier of the Progressive Era, and his समर्पण to दक्षता और modernization helped रूपांतरण अमरीकी business.
This is a list of एपीसोड of the टेलीविज़न series.
the एपीसोड यहूद निर्देशित by शिगेरू ueda और उत्पादित by the Yggdrasil Executive Committee which included Xebec and Genco.
The plot of the episodes is set in Tokyo and घूमती around रिन asōgi, an अमर निजी अन्वेषक, as वो explores the रहस्य of आधुनिक और near-future संसार और the supernatural events that surround the fictional society of immortals like herself.
There हैं विशाल समय गैप in the आतंरिक कालक्रम between the पहला पाँच episodes, ranging from one to thirty years.
The six एपीसोड यहूद ब्रॉडकास्ट मासिक on at-x चैनल in Japan, between February 3 and July 6, 2008.
Each एपीसोड is 45 मिनट्स long.
दो टुकड़े of थीम म्यूज़िक हैं प्रयुक्त लिये the एपीसोड : the खोलने theme `` Alsatia '' and the ending theme `` Cause Disarray ''.
Both were composed और performed by the जापानी मेटल बैंड galneryus.
The series was produced to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the at-x संजाल it originally aired on.
Aerial photo of FLETC, जहाँ us डिजिटल forensics मानकों यहूद विकसित in the 1980s and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes known as digital forensic science ) is a शाखा of forensic विज्ञान encompassing the रिकवरी और छानबीन of सामग्री मिला in digital devices, often in relation to computer crime.
The term digital forensics was originally used as a synonym for computer forensics but रै विस्तारित to कवर छानबीन of सब डिवाइस सक्षम of storing डिजिटल आंकड़ा.
With roots in the personal computing revolution of the लेट 1970s और जल्दी '80s, the अनुशासन विकसित in a haphazard manner दौरान the 1990s, और it थी नहीं जबतक the जल्दी 21st century that national policies emerged.
Digital forensics investigations have a किस्में of applications.
The most common is to support or refute a परिकल्पना पहले दण्ड or सिविल ( as भाग of the electronic discovery process ) courts.
Forensics may also विशेषता in the निजी सेक्टर ; ऐसे as दौरान आतंरिक corporate investigations or intrusion investigation ( a specialist probe into the nature and extent of an unauthorized network intrusion ).
The technical aspect of an investigation is divided into several sub-branches, relating to the type of digital devices involved ; कंप्यूटर forensics, संजाल forensics, forensic आंकड़ा विश्लेषण और मोबाईल device forensics.
The typical forensic प्रक्रम encompasses the seizure, forensic इमेजिंग ( अधिग्रहण ) और विश्लेषण of digital media and the production of a report into collected evidence.
As well as identifying direct evidence of a crime, digital forensics can be प्रयुक्त to विशेषता प्रमाण to विशिष्ट संदिग्धों, confirm alibis or कथन, determine intent, पहचानो sources ( for example, in copyright cases ), or authenticate documents.
Investigations are much broader in scope than other areas of forensic analysis ( where the usual aim is to provide जवाब to a श्रेणी of simpler सवाल ) प्रायः involving जटिल time-lines or hypotheses.
A comparison of the chromaticities enclosed by कुछ रंग स्पेसेस.
A color model is an abstract mathematical model describing the way colors can be represented as tuples of संख्याएँ, typically as तीन or चार मान or रंग components ( e.g. आरजीबी और cmyk हैं रंग मॉडल ).
However, a color model with no associated mapping function to an absolute color space is a more or less मनमानी रंग प्रणाली साथ no कनेक्शन to कोई globally समझा प्रणाली of रंग interpretation.
adding a निश्चित मानचित्रण फलन between the रंग मॉडल और a निश्चित सन्दर्भ color space results in a definite `` footprint '' within the reference color space.
This `` footprint '' is known as a gamut, and, in संयोजन साथ the रंग मॉडल, defines a नई रंग स्पेस.
For example, Adobe आरजीबी और srgb हैं दो अलग निरपेक्ष रंग spaces, both based on the RGB model.
In the सबसे जेनेरिक भाव of the परिभाषा ऊपर, रंग स्पेसेस can be defined without the use of a color model.
These spaces, such as Pantone, are in effect a given set of names or numbers which are defined by the अस्तित्व of a सम्बन्धित नियत of शारीरिक रंग swatches.
This article focuses on the गणितीय मॉडल concept.
मजदूर दिन is an अमरीकी संघीय अवकाश observed on the पहला सोमवार in September, that celebrates the economic and social contributions of workers.
Life insurance is a contract between an insured ( insurance policy holder ) and an insurer, जहाँ the insurer वादे to अदा a designated लाभार्थी a योग of धन ( the `` benefits '' ) upon the death of the insured person.
Depending on the contract, other कार्यक्रम ऐसे as टर्मिनल बीमारी or नाजुक illness may also trigger payment.
The नीति होल्डर typically pays a प्रीमियम, either regularly or as a lump sum.
Other expenses ( such as अंत्येष्टि खर्च ) हैं भी sometimes शामिल in the benefits.
Life नीतियों हैं विधिक अनुबंध और the शर्तें of the अनुबंध describe the limitations of the insured events.
Specific exclusions are often written into the अनुबंध to सीमा the देयता of the insurer ; आम उदाहरण हैं दावा relating to आत्महत्या, धोखाधड़ी, युद्ध, riot and civil commotion.
Life-based अनुबंध tend to पतन into two major categories:
Protection policies – designed to provide a लाभ in the इवेंट of निर्दिष्ट इवेंट, typically a lump योग भुगतान.
A common form of this डिज़ाइन is पद बीमे.
Investment policies – where the main उद्देश्य is to सुकर the विकास of पूंजी by नियमित or single premiums.
Common forms ( in the us ) हैं पूरे जीवन, सार्वभौमिक life and variable life policies.
{ { infobox Holiday
चाइनीज नई Year
9 – 12 फ़रवरी ( वियतनाम )
Mitzi Gaynor Donahue ( born May 2, 1962 in Yorba Linda, Orange County, कैलिफ़ोर्निया ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, भी credited and more popularly known as Mitzi Kapture.
Kapture began her career in films, सबसे of जिससे यहूद not huge commercial successes.
She went on to make a few television अतिथि दिखावे ( macgyver, 1st & टेन, और as a प्रतियोगी on the $ 100,000 पिरामिड ) पहले वो gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय exposure with her first major television role as Sergeant Rita Lee Lance in the television series Silk Stalkings.
Kapture 's role as Rita, the अन्य हाफ of the दो `` sams '' लिये almost 5 years, cemented her popularity.
Paired with Rob Estes who निभाई सार्जेंट क्रिस lorenzo, kapture gained वैश्विक मान्यता along with her costar since the show was broadcast in several countries.
Sergeant Lance eventually became Lieutenant तलवार by the समय kapture बाएँ the series in 1995 to have her first child Madison.
During her time with the series, kapture briefly सत in the निदेशक 's कुर्सी, लिये दो episodes.
She was interviewed लिये the रेशा stalkings ऋतु 1 DVD which was distributed by Anchor Bay Entertainment and released in September 2004.
After a छोटी अंतराल इससे the स्क्रीन following उसके निकास इससे रेशा stalkings, Kapture returned in 1997 to the small screen and USA Network.
She played lead roles in two USA तस्वीरें मूल telemovies, पूर्ण अपराधों ( आधारित on a सच्चा story, also called Hide and Seek : The Joanne Jensen Story ), which also starred Jasmine Guy and His Bodyguard.
She later स्ट्रक्चर in a few अन्य स्वतंत्र फिल्मी प्रोजेक्ट और थिएटर productions and had several television guest appearances.
kapture भी था a पुनरावर्ती भूमिका on बेवाच as Alexis Ryker.
She played Anita Hodges on The यंग और the बेचैन इससे 2002 through 2004, जहाँ वो थी credited as mitzi kapture donahue, और स्ट्रक्चर in the made-for-tv movie Night of Terror which premiered March 26, 2006 on Lifetime Network.
Her latest is a supporting भूमिका in परमेश्वर 's Ears, released in 2007.
Kapture is the आधिकारिक हस्ती प्रवक्ता लिये the xeroderma Pigmentosum Society.
The Xbox 360 is the दूसरी वीडियो खेल कंसोल विकसित by और उत्पादित लिये Microsoft and the successor to the Xbox.
The Xbox 360 competes साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 3 और निन्टेंडो 's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles.
As of September 30, 2012, 70 लाख एक्सबॉक्स 360 consoles have महरूम sold worldwide.
The Xbox 360 was officially unveiled on MTV on May 12, 2005, with detailed launch and game सूचना divulged बाद कि माह at the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक entertainment एक्सपो ( e3 ).
The console बेची आउट completely upon रिलीज in all regions except in Japan.
Several major features of the Xbox 360 are its integrated Xbox Live service कि allows खिलाड़ी to compete ऑनलाइन ; डाउनलोड आर्केड खेल, खेल demos, trailers, tv shows, म्यूज़िक and movies ; and its Windows Media Center multimedia capabilities.
The Xbox Live also offers access to विभिन्न ( प्रायः region-specific ) third-party मीडिया streaming applications.
At their E3 presentation on June 14, 2010, microsoft घोषित a redesigned एक्सबॉक्स 360 कि would ship on the same day.
The redesigned console is slimmer than the previous Xbox 360 model and features एकीकृत 802.11 b/g/n wi-fi, toslink s/pdif ऑप्टिकल ऑडियो आउटपुट, पाँच usb 2.0 पोर्ट ( compared to the three from older versions ) and a special AUX port.
Older models of the Xbox 360 have चूंकि महरूम discontinued.
The first new console to be released features a 250 GB hard drive, while a later, कम महंगी sku सुविधाएँ 4 gb आतंरिक भंडार.
backpack may भी refer to a 2001 novel by Emily Barr
A आधुनिक backpack
स्विस फौज backpack ca. 1960
एकीकृत bearer frame.
A backpack ( also called rucksack, knapsack, packsack, पैक ) is, in इसके सरलतम रूप, a cloth बोरी carried on एक 's वापस और secured साथ दो straps that go over the shoulders, but there can be exceptions.
Lightweight types of backpacks हैं sometimes worn on तभी एक shoulder strap.
Backpacks are often preferred to handbags for carrying heavy loads or carrying any sort of equipment, because of the सीमित क्षमता to carry भारी weights लिये long periods of time in the hands.
Large backpacks, used to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 पाउंड ), प्रायः offload the largest भाग ( up to परिचय 90 % ) of उनके वज़न onto padded हिप बेल्ट, leaving the shoulder straps mainly for stabilising the load.
This improves the potential to carry heavy loads, as the कूल्हों हैं stronger than the कन्धों, और भी increases चपलता और संतुलन, चूंकि the लोड rides nearer the wearer 's own center of mass.
In ancient times, the backpack थी प्रयुक्त as a अर्थात् to carry the hunter 's larger game and other types of prey and as a way of easier transport for other materials.
In the cases of larger hunts, the hunters would dismember उनके शिकार और वितरित the टुकड़े of the एनिमल around, प्रत्येक one packing the meat into many wrappings and then into bags which they placed on to their backs.
The bag itself was made up of different animal hide and skin ( depending on what sorts of animals were in the area ) and sewn साथ by the आंतों of कहा पशु, जिससे यहूद woven साथ tightly to मेक a sturdy thread-like material.
मैक्सिको ( ; ; ), officially the संयुक्त मैक्सिकन राज्य ( ), is a federal constitutional republic in North America.
It is bordered on the उत्तर by the संयुक्त राज्य ; on the दक्षिण और वेस्ट by the प्रशांत Ocean ; on the southeast by Guatemala, Belize, and the Caribbean Sea ; and on the east by the Gulf of Mexico.
Covering almost two million square किलोमीटर ( over 760,000 sq mi ), मैक्सिको is the पांचवां largest देश in the americas by कुल क्षेत्रफल और the 13th largest स्वतंत्र nation in the world.
With an अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of over 113 लाख, it is the world 's eleventh most populous country and the most populous Spanish-speaking country.
Mexico is a संघ comprising thirty-one राज्य और a Federal District, the capital city.
In pre-Columbian Mexico अनेक संस्कृतियों matured into उन्नत सभ्यताओं ऐसे as the olmec, the toltec, the Teotihuacan, the Zapotec, the Maya and the Aztec before first contact with Europeans.
In 1521, Spain conquered and colonized the territory इससे इसके आधार in méxico-tenochtitlan, जिससे थी administered as the Viceroyalty of New Spain.
This territory would eventually become Mexico following मान्यता of the उपनिवेश 's स्वतंत्रता in 1821.
The post-independence काल थी characterized by आर्थिक अस्थिरता, the mexican-american युद्ध और territorial cession to the United States, a civil war, two empires and a domestic dictatorship.
The latter led to the मैक्सिकन क्रान्ति in 1910, जिससे culminated with the promulgation of the 1917 Constitution and the emergence of the country 's current political system.
Elections held in July 2000 marked the first time that an opposition party जीती the प्रेसिडेंसी इससे the संस्थागत Revolutionary Party.
Since 2006 the country has been in the midst of a ड्रग युद्ध जिससे रै caused 60,000 deaths.
Mexico has one of the world 's largest economies, और is माना दोनो a क्षेत्रीय शक्ति and middle power.
In addition, मैक्सिको थी the पहला लैटिन अमरीकी सदस्य of the संगठन for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD ( since 1994 ), and considered an upper-middle income country by the World Bank.
Mexico is माना a newly industrialized देश and an emerging power.
It has the fourteenth largest नाममात्र जीडीपी और the eleventh largest GDP by purchasing power parity.
The economy is strongly linked to those of इसके उत्तर अमरीकी फ़्री Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) partners, especially the United States of America.
Mexico ranks छठे in the संसार और पहला in the americas by क्रमांक of युनेस्को संसार विरासत साइट साथ 31, and in 2007 was the tenth most visited country in the world with 21.4 million international arrivals per year.
Babe रुथ holds the एमएलबी करियर slugging प्रतिशत record (.690 ).
In baseball statistics, slugging प्रतिशत ( abbreviated slg ) is a लोकप्रिय माप of the शक्ति of a hitter.
It is गणना as कुल bases divided by at bats :
where AB is the number of at-bats for a दिए खिलाड़ी, और 1b, 2b, 3b, और hr हैं the number of singles, doubles, triples, and home runs, respectively.
Walks are specifically excluded इससे इस गणना.
For example, in 1920, Babe रुथ निभाई उसके पहला ऋतु लिये the New York Yankees.
In 458 at bats, Ruth had 172 hits, comprising 73 singles, 36 युगल, 9 तिगुना, और 54 घर रनों, जिससे brings the कुल आधार गिनती to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388.
His total number of bases ( 388 ) divided by his total at-bats ( 458 ) is.847, उसके slugging प्रतिशत लिये the season.
The अगला साल he slugged.846, और ये रिकॉर्ड गई अखंड जबतक 2001, when Barry Bonds achieved 411 bases in 476 at-bats, bringing his slugging percentage to.863, unmatched since.
is a role-playing video game developed and प्रकाशित by वर्गाकार ( अभी वर्गाकार एनिक्स ) लिये the सुपर निन्टेंडो entertainment System in 1995.
Chrono Trigger 's development team included three designers that Square dubbed the `` Dream Team '' : hironobu sakaguchi, the निर्माता of वर्गाकार 's फाइनल काल्पनिक श्रेणी ; yuji horii, a freelance designer and creator of Enix 's popular Dragon Quest series ; and Akira Toriyama, a freelance manga artist famed for his work with Dragon Quest and Dragon Ball.
Kazuhiko Aoki produced the game, masato काटो लिखा सबसे of the प्लाट, जबकि composer yasunori mitsuda scored सबसे of the खेल पहले falling ill and deferring remaining tracks to Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu.
The game 's story follows a group of adventurers who सफर through समय to prevent a वैश्विक प्रलय.
Square re-released a ported version by Tose in Japan for Sony 's प्लेस्टेशन in 1999, बाद repackaged साथ a फाइनल काल्पनिक iv बंदरगाहों as फाइनल काल्पनिक क्रॉनिकल्स in 2001 for the North American market.
A slightly enhanced Chrono Trigger was released for the Nintendo DS on November 25, 2008, in North America and Japan, and गई on बिक्री in ऑस्ट्रेलिया on फ़रवरी 3, 2009 और in यूरोपीय on February 6, 2009.
The game was never released in PAL territories पहले the निन्टेंडो ds संस्करण.
Chrono Trigger was a critical and commercial success upon release and is माना आज to be एक of the महानतम video games of all time.
निन्टेंडो शक्ति पत्रिका वर्णित पहलुओं of chrono ट्रिगर as क्रांतिकारी, सहित इसके अनेक endings, plot-related sidequests focusing on character development, unique battle system, and detailed graphics.
Chrono Trigger was the third best-selling game of 1995, और the खेल 's snes और प्लेस्टेशन iterations have shipped 2.65 million copies as of March 2003.
The version for the Nintendo DS sold 790,000 नक़ल as of कूच 2009.
Chrono Trigger was also ported to mobile phones, आभासी कंसोल, the प्लेस्टेशन संजाल ( तभी in the USA ), iOS devices, and Android devices.
बकरी चीज
Goat cheese, or chèvre ( from the फ्रेंच शब्द लिये बकरी ), is चीज made out of the milk of goats.
Hyperthermia is elevated body temperature due to विफल thermoregulation कि occurs जब a देह produces or absorbs अधिक ऊष्मा than it dissipates.
Extreme temperature elevation then becomes a medical emergency requiring तात्कालिक उपचार to prevent विकलांगता or death.
the सबसे आम कल्याणकारी शामिल heat stroke and adverse reactions to drugs.
The former is an acute temperature elevation caused by exposure to excessive heat, or संयोजन of ऊष्मा और आर्द्रता, कि overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms.
The latter is a अपेक्षाकृत विरल पक्ष प्रभाव of many drugs, particularly those that affect the central nervous system.
Malignant hyperthermia is a rare complication of कुछ प्रकार of सामान्य एनेस्थीसिया.
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical devices and may be used in the उपचार of कुछ kinds of कर्कट और अन्य शर्तें, most commonly in conjunction with radiotherapy.
अतिताप differs इससे ज्वर in that the body 's temperature set point remains unchanged.
The opposite is hypothermia, जिससे occurs जब the तापमान बूंदें नीचे कि जरूरी to maintain normal metabolism.
Belize, is a country located on the northeastern coast of सेंट्रल America.
It is the only देश in the क्षेत्रफल जहाँ अंग्रेज़ी is the official language, although Kriol and Spanish are more commonly spoken.
Belize is bordered on the north by मैक्सिको, to the दक्षिण और वेस्ट by ग्वाटेमाला and to the east by the Caribbean Sea.
Its मेनलैंड is परिचय long and wide.
With of land and a population of only 312,698 inhabitants ( 2010 census ), Belize possesses the न्यूनतम जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व in सेंट्रल अमेरिका.
The country 's जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट of 3.15 % ( 2012 est. ) is the दूसरी उच्चतम in the प्रदेश और one of the highest in the western hemisphere.
Belize 's abundance of स्थलीय और समुद्री प्रजाति, और इसके विविधता of ecosystems give it a key place within the globally significant Mesoamerican Biological Corridor.
Belize has a विविध समाज, comprising अनेक संस्कृतियों और languages.
It is the only स्वदेश in the प्रदेश साथ a अंग्रेजों औपनिवेशिक विरासत, लकिन as a भाग of the पश्चिमी caribbean मण्डल, it भी shares a common heritage with the fellow Anglophone Caribbean countries.
In general, Belize is considered to be a सेंट्रल अमरीकी और caribbean nation with strong ties to both the Caribbean and Latin America.
Belize is a सदस्य of the caribbean जातियाँ ( caricom ), the जातियाँ of लैटिन अमरीकी और Caribbean States ( CELAC ), and Central American Integration System ( SICA ).
Belize is known for its सितंबर जश्न, और is the जन्मस्थान of चबाने gum and Punta Rock.
The `` बेट्सी रॉस '' flag
A `` Betsy Ross '' flag flying बाहर सैन फ्रांसिस्को नगर Hall
The Betsy Ross flag is an early design of the flag of the United States, popularly attributed to बेट्सी रॉस, using the आम motifs of प्रत्यावर्ती red-and-white धारीदार फ़ील्ड साथ five-pointed stars in a blue canton.
The flag was designed during the अमरीकी क्रान्ति और सुविधाएँ 13 सितारों to represent the original 13 colonies.
The distinctive feature of the रॉस ध्वज is the व्यवस्था of the सितारों in a circle.
Although the Betsy Ross story is accepted by सबसे अमेरिकी, कुछ ध्वज इतिहासकारों और revisionists do नहीं accept the बेट्सी रॉस डिज़ाइन as the first American flag.
According to the traditional account, the असली ध्वज थी बना in जून 1776, जब a छोटी committee—including जार्ज वॉशिंगटन, रॉबर्ट मॉरिस और relative George Ross —visited Betsy and discussed the need for a new American flag.
Betsy accepted the जॉब to manufacture the ध्वज, altering the कमेटी 's design by replacing the six-pointed stars with five-pointed stars.
While the Betsy Ross legend is questionable, the flag design is known to have महरूम in उपयोग by 1777 ; अल्फ्रेड b. गली वर्णित it at the आत्मसमर्पण of सामान्य burgoyne और समझा the वृत्त of सितारों to represent equality among the American states.
It is one of the oldest versions of U.S. flags known to exist ; while it is not the oldest surviving flag artifact in cloth रूप, इसके likeness appears on पुरानी शारीरिक अरबिंदो, namely, the समकालीन रणभूमि paintings by जॉन trumbull और चार्ल्स willson Peale.
They depict the circular star व्यवस्था होने flown इससे जलयान masts और अनेक अन्य स्थान, और यूँ provide the पहला known historical documentation of the flag 's appearance.
The seal of the U.S. Department of दिग्गजों अफेयर्स उपयोग the बेट्सी रॉस ध्वज to represent सेवा to सब दिग्गजों इससे the अमरीकी क्रान्ति to the present day.
The Betsy Ross डिज़ाइन of 13-star us ध्वज रै महरूम प्रदर्शित in अनेक लोकप्रिय artworks ( sometimes inaccurately, as in Washington Crossing the Delaware ) and films, such as the 1960 version of Pollyanna.
The flag continues to be one of the most popular symbols of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति.
A purr is a sound made by all प्रजाति of felids और is a भाग of बिल्ली संचार.
It varies between cats ( for example by loudness and tone ), and from प्रजाति to प्रजाति, लकिन can be characterized as a tonal गुलजार.
The term `` purring '' has महरूम प्रयुक्त liberally in साहित्य, और it रै महरूम claimed that viverrids ( civet, mongoose, genet ), bears, badgers, hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr.
Other animals that have been said to purr are rabbits, squirrels, guinea pigs, tapirs, ring-tailed lemurs, हाथियों, raccoons और gorillas while eating.
However, using a strict definition of purring that continuous sound उत्पादन जरूर वैकल्पिक between pulmonic egressive और ingressive airstream ( और प्रायः go on लिये मिनट्स ), पीटर्स ( 2002 ), in an विस्तृत पुनर्विलोकन of the scientific literature, reached the conclusion that until then only ‘purring cats’ ( Felidae ) and two species of genets, Genetta tigrina, and most likely also Genetta genetta, had been documented to purr.
The platypus ( ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to पूर्वी ऑस्ट्रेलिया, including Tasmania.
Together with the four species of एकिडना, it is एक of the पाँच extant प्रजाति of monotremes, the तभी mammals that lay eggs instead of giving birth.
It is the एकमात्र जीना प्रतिनिधि of इसके परिवार ( ornithorhynchidae ) और genus ( ornithorhynchus ), though a number of related species have been found in the fossil record.
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying, duck -billed, beaver -tailed, otter -footed mammal baffled European naturalists जब वे पहला encountered it, साथ कुछ considering it an विस्तृत fraud.
It is one of the few venomous mammals, the male platypus having a spur on the हिन्द पैर कि delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans.
The unique features of the platypus मेक it an महत्वपूर्ण विषय in the पढ़ाई of विकासवादी जीवविज्ञान और a recognisable और iconic प्रतीक of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; it रै appeared as a शुभंकर at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the animal emblem of the राज्य of नई दक्षिण वेल्स.
Until the early 20th century, it was hunted for इसके फर, लकिन it is अभी सुरक्षित throughout इसके range.
Although captive breeding programmes have had only limited success and the platypus is vulnerable to the प्रभाव of प्रदूषण, it is नहीं अंतर्गत कोई तात्कालिक threat.
St. Elizabeth is a गाँव in मिलर काउंटी, Missouri, United States.
The population थी 336 at the 2010 census.
Wilton is a census-designated place ( CDP ) in sacramento काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त States.
It is part of the Sacramento – Arden-Arcade – roseville महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,363 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, up from 4,551 at the 2000 census.
in human-computer बातचीत, काटें और paste और नक़ल और paste हैं सम्बन्धित कमांड कि प्रस्ताव a user-interface interaction technique for transferring text, data, files or objects from a source to a destination.
सबसे ubiquitously, उपयोक्ता आवश्यकता the क्षमता to cut and paste sections of plain text.
The cut command removes the चयनित आंकड़ा इससे इसके असली स्थिति, जबकि the नक़ल कमांड creates a नकल ; in दोनो मामले the selected data is placed in a clipboard.
The data in the clipboard is बाद inserted in the position where the paste command is issued.
the कमांड names हैं an इंटरफ़ेस रूपक आधारित on the शारीरिक procedure used in manuscript editing to create a page layout.
This interaction technique has close associations with सम्बन्धित तकनीकों in आलेखीय उपयोक्ता अंतरफलक कि use pointing devices such as a computer mouse ( by drag and drop, for example ).
Economic order quantity is the order मात्रा कि minimizes कुल inventory पकड़कर लागत और ordering costs.
It is one of the oldest classical production scheduling मॉडल.
The framework used to determine इस अनुक्रम मात्रा is also known as Barabas EOQ Model or Barabas Formula.
The मॉडल थी विकसित by घाट W. हैरिस in 1913, लकिन R. H. विल्सन, a सलाहकार who applied it extensively, is given credit for his in-depth analysis.
Stephen `` स्टीवी '' रे vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3, 1954 – अगस्त 27, 1990 ) थी an अमरीकी guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record producer.
प्रायः referred to by उसके आद्याक्षर srv, vaughan is बेहतरीन known as a founding member and leader of Double Trouble.
Together with drummer Chris Layton and bassist टॉमी शैनन, वे ignited the ब्लूज़ revival of the 1980s.
With a career spanning seven years, vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल consistently बेची आउट कॉन्सर्ट while their albums frequently went gold.
He was born and उठाया in डलास, टेक्सास, और लिये a छोटी काल of time lived in Graham, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie vaughan, vaughan प्रारंभ playing the गिटार at आयु सात और formed अनेक bands कि occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped out of high school and moved to Austin to further pursue उसके musical करियर, joining समूह ऐसे as krackerjack, the nightcrawlers, और the Cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple Threat Revue, a band that eventually evolved into दोगुना ट्रबल और regularly performed around Austin.
In 1982, vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल performed at the montreux जैज़ पर्व in Switzerland, catching the attention of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne.
Bowie asked vaughan to खेल on उसके आगामी स्टुडियो एल्बम let 's नृत्य, जबकि browne offered the band free use of his personal studio in Los Angeles to record an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by veteran record producer जॉन हैमंड sr. और released उनके डेब्यू एल्बम, टेक्सास Flood in June of that year.
After कामयाब touring, the समूह released the एल्बम, could n't स्टैंड the Weather ( 1984 ) and Soul to Soul ( 1985 ), the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans.
Although his career had progressed successfully, Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta, Georgia to give up a कोका और दारू आदत और लौटे to touring साथ the बैंड.
In June 1989, in कदम थी released और अर्जित उन्हें a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Contemporary Blues Performance.
On August 27, 1990, Vaughan was killed in a helicopter crash following a प्रदर्शन in ईस्ट ट्रॉय, विस्कॉन्सिन.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet तीव्र स्टाइल थी निकला इससे a किस्में of musical genres.
He was influenced by blues musicians including अल्बर्ट किंग, फ्रेडी किंग, ओटिस Rush, and Muddy Waters, and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack.
His guitar playing reflected the क्लासिक ब्लूज़ और pentatonic scales.
He has received wide critical मान्यता लिये उसके गिटार playing, रैंकिंग at # 6 on रोलिंग Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011.
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 और a मेमोरियल प्रतिमा थी erected in ऑस्टिन 's ऑडिटोरियम Shores park.
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the महानतम संगीतकारों to आइये इससे the राज्य of Texas.
The Las Vegas Strip World of coca-cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय बेची in स्टोर्स, रेस्तरां, और वेंडिंग मशीने in every country except Cuba and North Korea.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola कम्पनी of अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया, और is प्रायः referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a पेटेंट आयुर्विज्ञान जब it थी invented in the लेट 19th सदी by जॉन pemberton, coca-cola थी खरीदा आउट by बिजनेसमैन asa griggs candler, जिनकी marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, which is then बेची to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, जो थाम territorially विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी, उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to खुदरा स्टोर्स और वेंडिंग मशीने.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola उद्यमों, जिससे is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in North America and western Europe.
The Coca-Cola Company भी बिकता concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to प्रमुख restaurants and food service distributors.
The Coca-Cola Company has, on occasion, introduced अन्य कोला पेय अंतर्गत the कोक brand name.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola चेरी, coca-cola शून्य, coca-cola वैनिला, और खास संस्करण साथ नीबू, लाइम or coffee.
आधारित on interbrand 's बेहतरीन वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011, coca-cola was the world 's most valuable brand.
Barry Louis Larkin ( born अप्रैल 28, 1964 ) is a रिटायर्ड प्रमुख League Baseball player.
Larkin played shortstop लिये the सिनसिनाटी लाल इससे 1986 to 2004 और थी एक of the pivotal खिलाड़ी on the 1990 Reds ' World Series championship team.
Larkin was elected to the National Baseball हॉल of कीर्ति in जनवरी 2012 और थी inducted on July 22.
larkin is माना एक of the शीर्ष खिलाड़ी of उसके era, जीतना nine Silver Slugger awards and three Gold Glove awards.
He was चयनित to the प्रमुख लीग all-star खेल बारह टाइम्स, और थी निर्वाचित the 1995 National League Most Valuable Player.
Brasília ( ) is the federal पूंजी of ब्राज़ील और the सीट of सरकारी of the Federal District.
administratively, the नगर is स्तिथ in the संघीय District which is in the Central-West Region.
Physically, it is located in the ब्राज़ीलियाई हाइलैंड्स.
It has a population of about 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the महानगर क्षेत्रफल ) as of the 2008 ibge अनुमान, making it the fourth largest city in Brazil.
However, as a metropolitan area, it ranks lower at छठे in जनसांख्यिकी.
Brasília is the largest city in the संसार कि किया नहीं मौजूद at the शुरूआत of the 20th century.
Brasília has the fifth largest जीडीपी among लैटिन American cities and the third in Brazil.
At around R $ 62,000 Brazilian reais ( equal to लगभग $ 30,900 us डॉलर or €23,000 euros ), the नगर 's प्रति capita आय is the उच्चतम among Brazil 's largest cities.
as the नेशनल पूंजी, brasília is the seat of all three branches of the federal government of Brazil.
the नगर भी होस्ट the मुख्यालय of many Brazilian companies.
Planning नीतियों ऐसे as the स्थान of आवासीय इमारतें around expansive शहरी क्षेत्रों, as खूब as भवन the नगर around विशाल avenues and dividing it into sectors, have sparked a debate and reflection on life in big cities in the 20th century.
The city 's design divides it into numbered blocks as well as sectors for specified क्रियाएँ, ऐसे as the होटल सेक्टर, the बैंकिंग सेक्टर or the दूतावास सेक्टर.
Brasília होस्ट 124 विदेशी embassies.
The नगर थी नियोजित और विकसित in 1956 साथ lúcio कोस्टा as the प्रिंसिपल शहरी planner, Oscar Niemeyer as the principal architect and Roberto Burle Marx as the landscape designer.
Brasilia is in the युनेस्को 's संसार Hertitage List due to its architecture.
On अप्रैल 22, 1960, it formally became Brazil 's national capital.
viewed इससे ऊपर, the प्रमुख portion of the city resembles an airplane or a butterfly.
The नगर is commonly referred to as पूंजी Federal, or simply BSB.
Residents of Brasília are known as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to those नहीं born in the नगर लकिन जो migrated वहीँ after it was established ).
In local usage, the word `` Brasília '' usually refers only to the पहला प्रशासनिक प्रदेश ( ra i ) भीतर the संघीय ज़िला ( distrito संघीय ), जहाँ the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण सरकारी इमारतें are located.
Brasília has a unique status in Brazil, as it is an administrative division बल्कि than a विधिक नगरपालिका जैसे nearly सब शहरों in ब्राज़ील.
Nationally, the term is almost always used synonymously with the संघीय ज़िला, जिससे constitutes an indivisible federative ईकाई, analogous to a state.
Several `` satellite cities '' exist which are also भाग of the संघीय ज़िला.
brasília अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is the प्रमुख विमानक्षेत्र in brasília, connecting the capital to all major Brazilian cities and many international destinations.
It is the third सबसे महत्वपूर्ण विमानक्षेत्र in ब्राज़ील, in terms of passengers and aircraft movements.
Personifications of Germany, France, Russia, Austria-Hungary, और the संयुक्त किंगडम attempting to रखना the ढक्कन on the simmering cauldron of imperialist और राष्ट्रवादी तनाव in the Balkans to prevent a general European war.
They were कामयाब in 1912 और 1913 लकिन किया नहीं सफल in in 1914.
The causes of World War I, which began in central Europe in late July 1914 and finished in 1918, शामिल अनेक कारकों, ऐसे as the विरोध और दुश्मनी of the चार दशकों अग्रणी up to the war.
सैन्यवाद, alliances, साम्राज्यवाद, और राष्ट्रवाद played major roles in the conflict as well.
The immediate origins of the war, however, lay in the decisions लिया by कूटनीतिज्ञों और सेनापतियों दौरान the संकट of 1914, casus belli लिये जिससे थी the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड ( the archduke of ऑस्ट्रिया हंगेरियाई ) और उसके wife Sophie by Gavrilo Princip, an irredentist Serb.
The crisis came after a long and difficult series of diplomatic clashes between the ग्रेट शक्तियां ( इटली, फ़्रांस, जर्मनी, the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य, the austria-hungarian साम्राज्य और रूस ) over European and colonial issues in the decade before 1914 that had left tensions high.
In turn these diplomatic clashes can be traced to परिवर्तन in the संतुलन of power in Europe since 1867.
The more immediate cause लिये the युद्ध थी तनाव over territory in the Balkans.
Austria-Hungary competed साथ सर्बिया और रूस लिये territory और influence in the प्रदेश और वे खींचा the बाकी of the Great Powers into the conflict through their various alliances and treaties.
Although the chain of events unleashed by the assassination triggered the युद्ध, the युद्ध 's origins go deeper, involving नेशनल राजनीती, संस्कृतियों, अर्थशास्त्र, और a जटिल वेब of alliances और counterbalances that had developed between the various European powers since 1870.
Some of the most important long term or structural causes are : the growth of nationalism across Europe, unresolved territorial disputes, an intricate प्रणाली of alliances, the आभास विश्लेषण of the संतुलन of शक्ति in यूरोपीय, convoluted और fragmented शासन, the बाहें races of the previous decades, previous military planning, imperial and colonial rivalry for wealth, power and prestige, and economic and military rivalry in industry and trade – e.g., the Pig War between Austria and Serbia.
Other causes that came into play during the diplomatic crisis that preceded the war included misperceptions of intent ( e.g., the जर्मनी विश्वास कि the संयुक्त किंगडम होता remain न्यूट्रल ) और देरी और misunderstandings in राजनयिक संचार.
The various categories of explanation for World War I correspond to अलग इतिहासकारों ' overall methods.
Most historians and popular commentators include causes इससे अधिक than एक श्रेणी of स्पष्टीकरण to provide a rounded account of the causes of the war.
The deepest distinction among these accounts is between stories that see it as the inevitable and predictable निष्कर्ष of निश्चित कारकों, और those कि describe it as an मनमानी और unfortunate mistake.
In attributing causes for the war, historians and लड था to सौदे साथ an unprecedented बाढ़ of memoirs और आधिकारिक दस्तावेज़, released as प्रत्येक country involved tried to avoid blame for starting the war.
Early releases of information by governments, particularly those released for उपयोग by the `` आयोग on the जिम्मेदारी of the लेखक of the युद्ध '' यहूद दिखाया to be incomplete and biased.
In जोड कुछ दस्तावेज़, विशेषकर diplomatic cables between Russia and France, were found to have been doctored.
Even in बाद दशकों however, जब much अधिक सूचना था महरूम released, historians from the same culture have been shown to come to differing conclusions on the causes of the war.
Johnson 's new chart of नेशनल प्रतीक, प्रकाशित c. 1868.
The large flags shown in the corners are the 37-star flag of the United States ( flown 1867-1877 ), the royal मानक of the संयुक्त किंगडम, the रूसी इम्पीरियल मानक, और the फ्रेंच tricolore with inset Imperial Eagle.
विभिन्न अन्य ध्वज flown by ships are shown.
the ध्वज of क्यूबा is labelled `` Cuban ( so called ) ``.
The Chinese ड्रैगन on the ध्वज of चीन थी drawn mistakenly as a western dragon.
A national flag is a flag कि symbolizes a देश.
The flag is flown by the सरकारी, लकिन प्रायः can भी be flown by नागरिकों of the country.
Both public and निजी इमारतें ऐसे as स्कूलों और courthouses may fly the national flag.
In some countries, the national flags are only flown इससे non-military इमारतें on निश्चित flag days.
There are three distinct types of national flag for use on land, and three for use at sea, though many देशों उपयोग एकसमान डिजाइन लिये अनेक ( और sometimes all ) of these types of flag.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories.
Foreign शक्तियां किया not intervene.
After four years of खूनी कॉम्बैट कि बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln जीती, लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan और the आवक republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate civil war.
Eight बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी to अस्वीकृत calls for secession.
Confederate शक्तियां जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to find a सुलह, और दोनो पहलू prepared for war.
the confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently, four more स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy, bringing उनके कुल to ग्यारह.
The Union soon नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
the पूर्वी थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the emancipation उदघोषणा, जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी a war goal.
To the वेस्ट, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी, then much of their western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate अवसंरचना साथ the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to Lee 's surrender to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत हाउस on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
The अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध थी एक of the earliest true industrial wars.
railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, और mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, banks, transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
Norrie बीमारी is a जेनेटिक विकार कि primarily affects the eye and almost always leads to blindness.
In जोड to the जन्मजात ocular लक्षण, कुछ मरीजों suffer इससे a progressive hearing loss starting mostly in their 2nd decade of life, while another portion may be mentally challenged.
Patients with Norrie disease may develop cataracts, leukocoria ( a condition where the विद्यार्थियों appear श्वेत जब लाइट is shone on उन्हें ), साथ साथ अन्य developmental मुद्दे in the eye, such as shrinking of the globe and the wasting away of the iris.
Around 30–50 % of उन्हें होगा भी have developmental डेलाy/ दिमागी retardation, psychotic-like सुविधाएँ, incoordination of movements or behavioral abnormalities.
Most patients are born साथ सामान्य सुनना ; however, the onset of सुनना घाटा is बहुत आम in early adolescence.
About 15 % of the मरीजों हैं अनुमानित to develop सब the features of the disease.
The disease affects almost only male infants at जनम or जल्द बाद जनम, क्युकी the बीमारी is inherited X-linked recessive.
Only in very विरल मामले, महिलाओं have महरूम diagnosed with Norrie disease as well.
The exact incidence number is unknown ; only a few सौ मामले have महरूम reported so far.
It is a very rare disorder that is not संबद्ध साथ कोई विशिष्ट जातीय or जातिगत groups.
A contract is an agreement having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by दो or अधिक पार्टियों, प्रत्येक of जिसको intends to create one or more legal obligations between them.
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent व्यक्तियों '' having विधिक क्षमता जो एक्सचेंज `` विचार '' to create `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be done in लिखने, हालांकि अनुबंध may be बना entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy for breach of contract can be `` damages '' in the रूप of मुआवजे of धन or विशिष्ट performance enforced through an injunction.
Both of ये remedies पुरस्कार the पार्टी at घाटा the `` लाभ of the सौदेबाजी '' or अपेक्षा damages, which are greater than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be प्राकृतिक व्यक्तियों or juristic persons.
A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking कि कुछ होगा or होगा not occur.
The word promise can be used as a विधिक पर्याय लिये अनुबंध, हालांकि परवाह is जरूरी as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract, as when it is an agreement without consideration.
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another, including differences in आम विधि compared to सिविल विधि, the प्रभाव of प्राप्त विधि, विशेषकर इससे इंग्लैण्ड in आम विधि देशों, और of law codified in regional legislation.
regarding ऑस्ट्रेलियाई अनुबंध विधि लिये उदाहरण, वहीँ हैं 40 प्रासंगिक अधिनियमों which impact on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( Federal / national ) level, and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW.
In जोड वहीँ हैं 6 अंतरराष्ट्रीय यंत्र or प्रथाओं जिससे हैं लागू लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings, such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods.
asp.net is a server-side वेब अनुप्रयोग फ्रेमवर्क designed for Web development to produce dynamic Web pages.
It was developed by Microsoft to allow प्रोग्रामर्स to निर्माण dynamic web sites, web applications and web services.
It was first released in January 2002 with version 1.0 of the.neT फ्रेमवर्क, और is the successor to microsoft 's क्रियाशील Server Pages ( ASP ) technology.
ASP.NET is built on the आम भाषा runtime ( clr ), allowing प्रोग्रामर्स to write ASP.NET code using any supported.NET language.
The ASP.NET SOAP extension framework allows asp.net components to प्रक्रम SOAP messages.
Lysergic acid diethylamide, abbreviated LSD or LSD-25, also known as lysergide ( INN ) and colloquially as acid, is a semisynthetic psychedelic drug of the ergoline family, well known for its psychological effects which can include altered thinking processes, closed and open eye visuals, synesthesia, an altered भाव of समय और आध्यात्मिक अनुभवों, as खूब as लिये इसके कुंजी भूमिका in 1960s counterculture.
It is प्रयुक्त मुख्यतः as an entheogen, recreational ड्रग, और as an agent in psychedelic therapy.
एलएसडी is non-addictive, is नहीं ज्ञात to कारण दिमाग क्षति, और has extremely low toxicity relative to dose.
However, adverse psychiatric प्रतिक्रियाएँ ऐसे as चिंता, paranoia, और delusions are possible.
LSD was first synthesized by अल्बर्ट hofmann in 1938 इससे ergotamine, a रासायनिक निकला by आर्थर Stoll from ergot, a grain fungus that typically grows on rye.
The छोटी रूप `` एलएसडी '' आता इससे इसके जल्दी कोड नाम lsd-25, जिससे is an संक्षिप्त for the German `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential number.
LSD is sensitive to oxygen, ultraviolet लाइट, और क्लोराइड, विशेषकर in समाधान, हालांकि इसके potency may पिछला लिये years if it is stored away from light and moisture at low temperature.
In pure रूप it is a colorless, गंधहीन, tasteless solid.
LSD is typically delivered orally, usually on a substrate ऐसे as absorbent blotter पेपर, a sugar cube, or gelatin.
In इसके द्रव रूप, it can भी be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection.
LSD is very potent, with 20–30 μg ( micrograms ) होने the दहलीज dose.
New experiments साथ एलएसडी प्रारंभ in 2009 लिये the पहला समय in 40 years.
Introduced by Sandoz Laboratories, with trade-name Delysid, as a ड्रग साथ विभिन्न मनोरोग उपयोग in 1947, एलएसडी जल्दी became a therapeutic एजेंट कि appeared to show great promise.
In the 1950s, officials at the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) विचार the ड्रग might be लागू to दिमाग कंट्रोल और रासायनिक warfare ; the एजेंसी 's mkultra research program propagated the drug among young servicemen and students.
The subsequent recreational use of the drug by युवावस्था संस्कृति in the पश्चिमी संसार दौरान the 1960s led to a राजनैतिक firestorm that resulted in its prohibition.
Currently, a number of organizations—including the Beckley Foundation, MAPS, Heffter Research Institute and the अल्बर्ट hofmann foundation—exist to निधि, प्रोत्साहित और निर्देशांक शोध into the औषधीय और आध्यात्मिक uses of LSD and related psychedelics.
The United States Navy 's Sea, Air, Land Teams, commonly known as the Navy SEALs, are the U.S. नेवी 's प्रिंसिपल खास परिचालन फ़ोर्स और a part of the Naval Special Warfare Command and United States Special Operations Command.
`` SEAL '' is सदा capitalized in सन्दर्भ to members of the Naval Special Warfare community.
The acronym is derived from their capacity to operate at समुद्र, in the एयर, और on जमीन.
SEALs are पुरूष सदस्यों of the United States Navy.
An exchange program with the Coast Guard, which graduated तीन coast guardsmen as seals, थी निलंबित in 2011.
The CIA 's highly secretive Special Activities Division ( SAD ) and more specifically इसके elite खास परिचालन समूह ( sog ) रंगरूटों ऑपरेटर इससे the मुहर टीमों.
Joint Navy seals और सीआईए परिचालन go वापस to the famed MACV-SOG during the Vietnam War.
This cooperation still exists today and is seen in the wars in इराकी और अफगानिस्तान, और in the ढूंढना और हत्या of ओसामा बिन लादेन in Pakistan.
World population estimates इससे 1800 to 2100, आधारित on un 2010 projections ( रेड, orange, green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े हैं in ब्लू.
According to the highest estimate, the संसार जनसांख्यिकी may वृद्धि to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The world population is the कुल क्रमांक of जीना humans on Earth.
As of today, it is अनुमानित to क्रमांक अरब by the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी Bureau ( USCB ).
The uscb estimates कि the संसार जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
according to a पृथक अनुमान by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी Fund, it reached this milestone on October 31, 2011.
The world population has experienced continuous विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट अकाल और the ब्लैक Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly दौरान the 1950s, और लिये a longer काल दौरान the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, और था अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the लेट 1980s at परिचय 138 लाख, और हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख, while deaths number 56 million per year, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections दिखाएँ a जारी बढ़ाएँ in जनसांख्यिकी in the निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ), with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth, stagnation, or even overall मनाही in the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the स्थिरता of further संसार जनसांख्यिकी विकास, citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण, global food supplies, and energy resources.
Memphis is a नगर in the southwestern कोने of the U.S. state of Tennessee, and the county seat of Shelby County.
The city is located on the 4th chickasaw bluff, दक्षिण of the संगम of the Wolf and Mississippi rivers.
Memphis had a population of 672,277 in 2011 making it the largest city in the state of टेनेसी, the largest नगर on the मिसिसिपी नदी, the तीसरा largest in the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य, and the 20th largest in the United States.
The greater Memphis metropolitan area, सहित सटा काउंटी in मिसिसिपी और अरकंसास, had a 2010 population of 1,316,100.
This makes Memphis the second largest metropolitan area in Tennessee, surpassed only by महानगर नैशविले, जिससे रै overtaken मेम्फिस in हाल years.
मेम्फिस is the youngest of Tennessee 's major cities.
A resident of Memphis is referred to as a Memphian, और the मेम्फिस प्रदेश is ज्ञात, विशेषकर to मीडिया outlets, as `` Memphis & The Mid-South ``.
The Cattenom नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in फ़्रांस.
France produces around तीन quarters of इसके विद्युत by nuclear power.
The grafenrheinfeld नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in Germany.
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's गठबन्धन घोषित on may 30, 2011, कि germany’s 17 नाभिकीय power stations will be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.
फिलहाल, 68 रिएक्टरों हैं अंतर्गत construction in 15 countries.
Nuclear power stations operate in thirty countries.
In 2010, before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year, although according to the संसार नाभिकीय संघ, of the 17 civilian रिएक्टरों नियोजित to become operational between 2007 and 2009, only five actually came on stream.
As of June 2011, जर्मनी और स्विट्ज़रलैंड are phasing-out nuclear power.
As of June 2011, countries such as Australia, ऑस्ट्रिया, डेनमार्क, यूनानियों, आयरलैंड, इटली, लातवियाई, liechtenstein, ध्वज, मलेशिया, Malta, New Zealand, Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power.
Skeletal मांसपेशियां होमो sapiens
इस is a तालिका of मांसपेशियां of the human anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical द्विपक्षीय मांसपेशियां, मिला on दोनो पहलू, resulting in लगभग 320 pairs of मांसपेशियां, as प्रस्तुत in this article.
Nevertheless, the सटीक क्रमांक is मुश्किल to define क्युकी अलग स्त्रोत समूह मांसपेशियां differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles.
उदाहरण दायरा इससे 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human देह can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the head and neck, muscles of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the action of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी इससे the मानक anatomical position.
In other स्थितियाँ, अन्य क्रियाएँ may be performed.
a reenactment of a बैटल at फोर्ट फोस्टर, 1837 ( at Hillsborough River State Park )
The Seminole Wars, also known as the Florida Wars, were three conflicts in Florida between the Seminole — the collective name दिए to the amalgamation of विभिन्न समूह of देशी अमेरिकी और ब्लैक लोगों जो settled in फ्लोरिडा in the जल्दी 18th century — and the United States Army.
The First Seminole War थी इससे 1814 to 1819 ( हालांकि स्त्रोत differ ), the दूसरी Seminole War from 1835 to 1842, and the Third Seminole War from 1855 to 1858.
The first विरोध साथ the seminoles arose आउट of तनाव relating to सामान्य Andrew Jackson 's attack and destruction of Negro Fort in Florida in 1816.
Jackson also attacked the स्पेनी at pensacola.
Ultimately, the Spanish Crown ceded the उपनिवेश to संयुक्त राज्य नियम.
Orono is a town in penobscot काउंटी, maine, संयुक्त राज्य.
It was first settled in 1774 and named in सम्मान of मुख्य जोसेफ orono of the penobscot Nation.
It is home to The विश्वविद्यालयों of maine.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 10,362 at the 2010 census.
View of the पिरामिड
Luxor लास वेगास is a होटल और कसीनो on the लास Vegas Strip in Paradise, Nevada.
The 30-story hotel, owned and operated by MGM Resorts अंतरराष्ट्रीय, रै a कसीनो साथ over 2,000 स्लॉट मशीने and 87 table games.
In the 2008 to 2009 renovation, it has a new, highly modernized, and contemporary design and contains a total of 4,400 कक्ष, सहित 442 suites, अस्तर the आंतरिक दीवारें of a पिरामिड स्टाइल मीनार और भीतर जुड़वा 22-story ziggurat मीनारें कि were built as later additions.
The hotel is नामित बाद the नगर of लक्सर ( प्राचीन Thebes ) in Egypt.
Luxor is the दूसरी largest होटल in लास वेगास ( the largest होने the MGM Grand ) and the eighth largest in the world.
As of 2010, the Luxor has a 4 Key rating from the ग्रीन कुंजी eco-rating कार्यक्रम, जिससे evaluates `` चिरस्थायी '' होटल परिचालन.
A pilot experiment, also called a pilot study, is a small scale preliminary study conducted in order to evaluate feasibility, time, cost, adverse events, and effect size ( statistical variability ) in an attempt to भविष्यवाणी an उचित नमूना आकार और improve upon the पढ़ाई डिज़ाइन prior to प्रदर्शन of a full-scale research project.
Pilot studies, इसलिए, may नहीं be उचित लिये मामला studies.
The Los Angeles Fire Department ( LAFD ) is the agency that provides fire protection और आपात चिकित्सा सेवाएं लिये the नगर of लॉस एंजिल्स.
It may be unofficially referred to as the Los Angeles City Fire Department to फर्क it इससे the लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी आग Department.
The acre is a unit of क्षेत्रफल प्रयुक्त in the इम्पीरियल and U.S. customary systems.
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare – slightly छोटी than an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल फ़ील्ड.
The acre is no longer commonly प्रयुक्त, हालांकि a few notable अपवाद शामिल the संयुक्त राज्य, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, बर्मा और the United Kingdom ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom, though is still used in real estate descriptions ).
It is still used, to कुछ extent, in कनाडा.
The international प्रतीक of the एकड़ is ac, और is पारिभाषित as 1/640 of a square mile.
The most commonly प्रयुक्त एकड़ आज is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय acre.
In the United राज्य दोनो the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ और the थोड़ा different US survey acre are in use.
The most common use of the acre is to माप tracts of जमीन.
One international acre is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224 square metres.
During the Middle Ages, an acre थी the राशि of जमीन कि could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen.
Pawnee initially refers to a देशी अमरीकी लोगों और इसके language:
pawnee लोगों
pawnee language
Pawnee is also the नाम of अनेक स्थान in the United States:
Pawnee, इलिनोइस
Pawnee, कान्सास
Pawnee नगर, नेब्रास्का
pawnee, ओक्लाहोमा
pawnee, Texas
Pawnee नेशनल घासभूमि, Colorado
Pawnee township ( बहुविकल्पी )
pawnee काउंटी ( बहुविकल्पी )
Pawnee may भी refer to:
Piper PA-25 pawnee, agricultural aircraft
hiller vz-1 pawnee, experimental aircraft
Pawnee, Indiana ( fictional city ) the fictional सेटिंग of the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न कॉमेडी पार्क and Recreation.
Broca 's और wernicke 's Areas
Language processing refers to the रास्ता इंसान beings उपयोग शब्द to communicate ideas and feelings, and how such communications are processed and understood.
Thus it is how the दिमाग creates और understands language.
Most हाल theories consider कि इस प्रक्रम is carried out entirely by and inside the brain.
This is considered one of the सबसे characteristic abilities of the human species - perhaps the most characteristic.
However very little is known about it and वहीँ is विशाल पैमाना लिये शोध on it.
Most of the knowledge acquired to date on the subject has come from patients who have suffered some प्रकार of significant सिर चोट, whether बाह्य ( wounds, bullets ) or internal ( strokes, tumors, degenerative diseases ).
अध्ययन have दिखाया कि सबसे of the language processing functions are carried out in the cerebral cortex.
The essential function of the cortical भाषा क्षेत्रों is सांकेतिक प्रतिनिधित्व.
Even though language exists in अलग फ़ॉर्म, सब of उन्हें हैं आधारित on symbolic representation.
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed और विकसित by the volkswagen समूह और manufactured in Molsheim, France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S.
The सुपर खेल संस्करण of the veyron is the तीव्रतम street-legal production car in the world, with a top speed of.
The original संस्करण रै a शीर्ष गति of.
It was named Car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the बीबीसी टेलीविज़न programme Top Gear.
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best car चलित सब साल पुरस्कार in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, Bugatti set the रिकार्ड लिये the तीव्रतम roadster in the संसार साथ the veyron Grand Sport Vitesse, reaching on average a top speed of.
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss, and the exterior was designed by jozef kabaň of volkswagen, साथ much of the अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य होने conducted अंतर्गत the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber.
A number of special विसंगतियाँ have महरूम उत्पादित.
In दिसम्बर 2010, bugatti began offering prospective खरीदार the क्षमता to customize exterior and interiors colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website.
DVD is an optical disc storage format, invented and developed by फिलिप्स, सोनी, तोशिबा, और पैनासोनिक in 1995.
DVDs offer higher भंडार क्षमता than कॉम्पैक्ट discs जबकि having the same dimensions.
Pre-recorded DVDs are mass-produced using molding मशीने कि physically स्टैम्प आंकड़ा onto the DVD.
Such discs are known as DVD- ROM, because आंकड़ा can तभी be पढ़ा and not written nor erased.
Blank recordable DVD discs ( DVD-R and DVD+R ) can be recorded once using a dvd रिकॉर्डर और तब फलन as a dvd-rom. rewritable dvds ( dvd-rw, dvd+rw, और dvd-ram ) can be अंकित और erased अनेक times.
dvds हैं प्रयुक्त in dvd-video उपभोक्ता डिजिटल वीडियो स्वरूप और in dvd-audio उपभोक्ता digital audio format, as well as for authoring AVCHD discs.
dvds containing अन्य प्रकार of सूचना may be referred to as DVD data discs.
What Chilli Wants is an American वास्तविकता श्रेणी on vh1 अभिनीत chilli, one-third of the Grammy Award -winning R & B trio TLC.
The show chronicles Chilli 's quest to find love with the सहायता of tionna T. smalls, an लेखक और संबंध कोच.
The series premiered on April 11, 2010, और रै चूंकि महरूम नवीनीकृत लिये a second season.
The second ऋतु premiered on संडे, जनवरी 2, 2011.
Peter Gene Hernandez ( born October 8, 1985 ), known by his stage name ब्रूनो मंगल, is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter और रिकार्ड निर्माता.
Raised in Honolulu, Hawaii, by a family of musicians, Mars began making music at a यंग आयु और performed in विभिन्न musical venues in उसके hometown throughout his childhood.
He graduated from high school and then moved to लॉस एंजिल्स, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, to pursue a musical करियर.
मंगल उत्पादित गीतों लिये अन्य artists, joining production team The Smeezingtons.
Mars had an unsuccessful कार्यावधि साथ motown Records, but then signed with Atlantic in 2009.
He became पहचाना as a सोलो कलाकार बाद lending उसके vocals और co-writing the hooks लिये the songs `` Nothin ' on You `` by B.o.B, and `` Billionaire `` by Travie McCoy.
He also co-wrote the hits `` Right Round `` by Flo Rida featuring ke $ ha, और `` wavin ' ध्वज `` by K'naan.
In October 2010, he released उसके डेब्यू एल्बम, doo-wops & Hooligans.
Anchored by the worldwide number-one singles `` Just the Way You Are `` और `` ग्रेनेड ``, the एल्बम peaked at क्रमांक तीन on the Billboard 200.
Mars was nominated for seven Grammys at the 53rd Grammy Awards, जीतना बेहतरीन पुरूष पॉप गायन प्रदर्शन लिये `` बस the Way You Are ''.
His second studio album, अपरंपरागत ज्यूकबॉक्स, थी released on December 11, 2012.
Mars ' music is विख्यात लिये displaying a चौड़ी किस्में of शैलियाँ और influences, and contains elements of many musical genres.
He रै worked साथ an assortment of artists from various genres.
As a चाइल्ड, he थी अत्यधिक बहकावे by कलाकारों ऐसे as छोटी रिचर्ड, एल्विस Presley and Michael Jackson and would often impersonate these artists from a young age.
Mars also incorporates रेगी - और motown -inspired ध्वनि into his work.
Worldwide, मंगल became the best-selling digital artist in 2011.
He had three singles in the top ten, सहित पहला प्लेस साथ `` बस the रास्ता तुम हैं '', which sold 12.5 million copies.
Mars won Best International Male सोलो कलाकार at the 2012 ब्रिट Awards.
Bruno Mars has sold 6 million एल्बम और 40 लाख singles विश्वव्यापी as a singer.
Althought as a song-writer, निर्माता और सिंगर उसके कुल सिंगल डाउनलोड बिक्री surpass 100 million worldwide.
Bust of ज़ीउस, otricoli ( sala रोटोंडा, museo pio-clementino, Vatican ).
Greek mythology is the देह of मिथकों और शिक्षाओं कि belong to the प्राचीन यूनानियों, concerning उनके gods and heroes, the nature of the world, and the origins and significance of their own cult and ritual practices.
It थी a भाग of the धर्म in प्राचीन यूनानियों और is भाग of धर्म in आधुनिक Greece and around the world, known as Hellenismos.
Modern scholars refer to और पढ़ाई the मिथकों in an attempt to throw लाइट on the धार्मिक और राजनैतिक संस्थानों of Ancient Greece and its civilization, and to gain understanding of the nature of myth-making itself.
Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives, and implicitly in यूनानी representational कला, ऐसे as vase-paintings और votive gifts.
Greek myth attempts to explain the origins of the संसार, और विवरण the जीवनदान और adventures of a चौड़ी किस्में of gods, goddesses, heroes, heroines, and mythological creatures.
These accounts initially यहूद disseminated in an oral-poetic परंपरा ; आज the यूनानी मिथकों हैं known primarily from Greek literature.
The oldest ज्ञात यूनानी साहित्यिक स्त्रोत, होमर 's एपिक कविताएं इलियड and Odyssey, focus on events surrounding the Trojan War.
Two poems by Homer 's near समकालीन hesiod, the theogony और the works और दिनों, contain खाते of the उत्पत्ति of the world, the succession of divine rulers, the succession of human ages, the origin of human woes, and the origin of sacrificial practices.
Myths are also preserved in the Homeric Hymns, in fragments of epic poems of the Epic Cycle, in lyric poems, in the works of the tragedians of the पांचवां सदी bc, in कृतियाँ of विद्वानों और कवियों of the hellenistic आयु, और in ग्रन्थ इससे the समय of the Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias.
पुरातत्व निष्कर्षों provide a प्रिंसिपल सोर्स of विवरण परिचय यूनानी mythology, साथ देवताओं और नायक featured prominently in the decoration of many artifacts.
ज्यामितीय डिजाइन on pottery of the आठवीं सदी bc depict scenes from the Trojan cycle as well as the adventures of Heracles.
In the succeeding Archaic, Classical, and hellenistic अवधि, homeric और विभिन्न अन्य पौराणिक दृश्यों appear, supplementing the existing literary evidence.
Greek mythology has had an extensive influence on the संस्कृति, कला, और साहित्य of पश्चिमी सभ्यता और remains part of Western heritage and language.
Poets and कलाकारों इससे प्राचीन टाइम्स to the उपस्थित have निकला प्रेरणा इससे यूनानी mythology and have discovered contemporary significance and relevance in the themes.
Mouth & macneal in 1971
Mouth & MacNeal थी a पॉप duo इससे the Netherlands.
They are best ज्ञात लिये उनके लाख selling recording of `` How Do You Do ``.
The boise राज्य broncos फ़ुटबॉल कार्यक्रम represents boise State University in college football and compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ) of Division I as a member of the Mountain West Conference.
They are currently led by सिर कोच क्रिस petersen और खेल उनके घर games at Bronco Stadium.
The franc ( sign : Fr. or SFr. ; German : Franken, French and Romansh : franc, इतालवी : फ्रेंको ; कोड : chf ) is the करेंसी और विधिक टेंडर of स्विट्ज़रलैंड and Liechtenstein ; it is also legal tender in the Italian exclave Campione d'Italia.
Although not formally legal tender in the German exclave Büsingen ( the एकमात्र विधिक करेंसी is the यूरोपियन ), it is in चौड़ी रोज़ use there.
The Swiss National Bank issues banknotes और the संघीय मिंट swissmint मुद्दे coins.
The Swiss फ़्रैंक is the तभी संस्करण of the franc still issued in Europe.
The smaller denomination, a hundredth of a फ़्रैंक, is a rappen ( rp. ) in जर्मनी, centime ( c. ) in फ्रेंच, centesimo ( ct. ) in Italian, and rap ( rp. ) in Romansh.
the आईएसओ कोड of the करेंसी प्रयुक्त by बैंको और वित्तीय संस्थानों is chf, हालांकि `` fr. '' is used by most businesses and advertisers ; some use SFr. ; the Latinate `` CH '' stands for Confoederatio Helvetica.
Given the different languages प्रयुक्त in स्विट्ज़रलैंड, लैटिन is प्रयुक्त लिये language-neutral inscriptions on the coins.
Sir Charles Spencer `` Charlie '' Chaplin, ( 16 April 188925 December 1977 ) was a अंग्रेजों कॉमिक कर्ता और फिल्मकार जो रोज़ to कीर्ति in the मूक era.
चैपलिन became a विश्वव्यापी प्रतीक through उसके स्क्रीन persona `` the Tramp `` and is considered one of the most important figures of the film industry.
His career spanned more than 75 years, from a child in the विक्टोरियन era to बंद to उसके मौत at the आयु of 88, और encompassed दोनो adulation and controversy.
Raised in London, Chaplin 's बाल्यकाल थी पारिभाषित by poverty and hardship.
He was sent to a workhouse twice पहले the आयु of नौ ; उसके पिता थी अनुपस्थित, और his mother was committed to a mental asylum.
Chaplin began performing from a young age, touring म्यूज़िक हॉल और बाद working as a स्टेज कर्ता and comedian.
At 19 he was हस्ताक्षरित to the prestigious फ्रेड karno कम्पनी, which took him to America.
Chaplin was scouted by the film industry, and बना उसके पहला दिखावे in 1914 with Keystone Studios.
He soon विकसित the ट्रैम्प persona और formed a large fan base.
Chaplin directed his films from an early stage, and continued to hone his craft as he स्थानांतरित to the essanay, परस्पर, and First National corporations.
By 1918, he was one of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध men in the world.
In 1919, चैपलिन co-founded the वितरण कम्पनी संयुक्त कलाकारों, giving him complete control over his films.
His first feature-length picture was the बच्चा ( 1921 ), followed by a स्त्री of पेरिस ( 1923 ), the Gold Rush ( 1925 ), and The Circus ( 1928 ).
He refused to move to sound films in the 1930s, बजाय producing नगर लाइट्स ( 1931 ) and Modern Times ( 1936 ) without dialogue.
Chaplin became increasingly राजनैतिक और उसके अगला फिल्मी, the ग्रेट तानाशाह ( 1940 ), satirised Adolf Hitler.
The 1940s was a decade चिह्नित साथ विवाद लिये चैपलिन, और उसके लोकप्रियता declined rapidly.
He was accused of communist sympathies, while his भागीदारी in a paternity सूट और विवाह to much younger women were considered scandalous.
An FBI investigation was opened on चैपलिन, और he थी आखिरकार मजबूर to छोड़ the संयुक्त राज्य और settle in Switzerland.
He abandoned the ट्रैम्प लिये उसके बाद films, जिससे शामिल monsieur Verdoux ( 1947 ), Limelight ( 1952 ), A King in New York ( 1957 ), and A Countess From Hong Kong ( 1967 ).
चैपलिन लिखा, निर्देशित, उत्पादित, edited, scored, and starred in most of his films.
He थी a perfectionist, और उसके वित्तीय स्वतंत्रता meant he प्रायः खर्च सालो on the development and production of a picture.
His films are characterised by slapstick संयुक्त साथ pathos, और प्रायः विशेषता the Tramp struggling against adversity.
Many contain social and political themes, as खूब as autobiographical elements.
In 1972, as part of a renewed appreciation for his work, Chaplin received an Honorary Academy Award for `` the incalculable effect he has had in बनाना गति तस्वीरें the आर्ट रूप of इस सदी ''.
He continues to be held in ऊँची लिहाज़, साथ the सुनहरा फटाफट, नगर लाइट्स, आधुनिक टाइम्स, और The Great Dictator often ranked among the greatest films of all time.
Planned Parenthood Federation of America ( PPFA ), commonly shortened to नियोजित parenthood, is the u.S. संबद्ध of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियोजित parenthood संघ ( ippf ) and one of its larger members.
PPFA is a non-profit संगठन providing reproductive स्वास्थ्य और मातृ और child health services.
The Planned Parenthood Action Fund, Inc. ( PPAF ) is a सम्बन्धित संगठन जिससे lobbies लिये pro-choice विधान, comprehensive sex education, and access to affordable health care in the United States.
Planned Parenthood is the largest U.S. provider of reproductive स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं, सहित कर्कट स्क्रीनिंग, hiv स्क्रीनिंग और counseling, contraception, and abortion.
Contraception accounts for 35 % of PPFA 's total services and abortions account for 3 % ; ppfa conducts roughly 300,000 abortions प्रत्येक साल, among 3 लाख लोगों परोसा.
The organization has its जड़ें in ब्रुकलीन, नई यॉर्क, जहाँ मार्गरेट सैंगर opened the country 's first birth-control clinic.
Sanger founded the American Birth कंट्रोल लीग in 1921, which in 1942 became part of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America.
Since then, Planned Parenthood has grown to have over 820 clinic स्थितियाँ in the u.S., साथ a कुल बजट of us $ 1 अरब.
PPFA provides an array of services to over three लाख लोगों in the संयुक्त राज्य, और supports सेवाएं लिये over one million clients outside the United States.
Mens rea is लैटिन लिये `` अपराधी दिमाग ''.
In criminal law, it is viewed as एक of the necessary elements of some crimes.
The standard common law test of criminal liability is usually expressed in the Latin phrase, actus non facit reum nisi पुरुषों बैठना rea, जिससे अर्थात् `` the अधिनियम is not culpable unless the mind is guilty ''.
Thus, in jurisdictions with due प्रक्रम, वहीँ जरूर be an actus reus, or `` अपराधी अधिनियम, '' accompanied by कुछ स्तर of पुरुषों rea to constitute the crime with which the defendant is charged ( see the technical requirement of concurrence ).
As a general नियम, दण्ड देयता करता नहीं संलग्न to a व्यक्ति who acted with the absence of mental fault.
The एक्सेप्शन is सख्त liability crimes.
In civil law, it is प्रायः नहीं जरुरी to prove a subjective दिमागी तत्व to स्थापित देयता लिये breach of contract or tort, for example.
however, if a अपकृत्य is intentionally वचनबद्ध or a अनुबंध is intentionally breached, ऐसे intent may increase the scope of liability as well as the measure of damages payable to the plaintiff.
इसलिए, पुरुषों rea refers to the दिमागी तत्व of the अपराध कि accompanies the actus reus.
In some jurisdictions, the terms पुरुषों rea और actus reus have महरूम replaced by वैकल्पिक शब्दावली.
In Australia, for example, the elements of the संघीय offences हैं अभी designated as `` दोष तत्व '' or `` दिमागी तत्व '' ( पुरुषों rea ) और `` शारीरिक तत्व '' or `` external elements '' ( actus reus ).
This terminology was अपनाया to बदलें the अस्पष्टता of the Latin terms with simple and accurate phrasing.
Ulysses S. Grant ( born hiram ulysses ग्रान्ट ; अप्रैल 27, 1822 – जुलाई 23, 1885 ) थी the 18th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1869–1877 ) following his highly successful role as a war general in the second half of the Civil War.
Under Grant, the Union Army defeated the Confederate सैन्य ; having effectively ended the युद्ध और secession साथ the आत्मसमर्पण of Robert E. Lee 's army at Appomattox.
As president he led the Radical Republicans in their effort to eliminate all vestiges of confederate राष्ट्रवाद और slavery.
Upset over uncontrolled violence in the South and having desired to protect African अमरीकी नागरिकता, अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट effectively नष्ट the ku Klux Klan in 1871.
Grant was the first अध्यक्ष to स्थापित सिविल सेवा सुधार having निर्मित a two-year federally funded Civil Service Commission in 1871.
In terms of विदेशी नीति, ग्रान्ट नाज़िल an `` unexpected capacity for deliberation and consultation '' that promoted the national interest.
His प्रतिष्ठा थी marred by उसके दोहराया रक्षा of भ्रष्ट appointees, और by अमेरिका 's पहला औद्योगिक age economic depression ( called the `` Panic of 1873 `` ) that dominated his second term.
Although his Republican पार्टी विभाजित in 1872 साथ reformers denouncing उसे, Grant was easily reelected.
By 1875 the conservative white Southern opposition regained कंट्रोल of प्रत्येक राज्य in the दक्षिण और as he बाएँ the श्वेत House in March 1877 his policies were being undone.
A career soldier, he graduated from the United States सैन्य अकादमी at वेस्ट पाइंट और परोसा in the mexican–american War.
When the सिविल युद्ध began in 1861, ग्रान्ट प्रशिक्षित Union volunteer regiments in Illinois.
In 1862, as a general he fought a series of लड़ाइयों और थी प्रचारित to प्रमुख सामान्य बाद forcing the आत्मसमर्पण of a विशाल Confederate army and gaining control of Kentucky and most of Tennessee.
He then led Union forces to victory after initial setbacks in the Battle of Shiloh, कमाई a प्रतिष्ठा as an आक्रामक कमांडर.
In July 1863, after a long, जटिल अभियान, ग्रान्ट पराजित पाँच uncoordinated confederate सेना ( capturing एक of them ) and seized Vicksburg.
This famous victory gave the Union full control of the Mississippi River, split बंद the पश्चिमी confederacy, और खोली the रास्ता for more Union triumphs.
After another win at the Battle of Chattanooga in late 1863, President Abraham lincoln बना उसे लेफ्टिनेंट सामान्य और कमांडर of सब of the Union Armies.
As commanding general of the army, Grant confronted Robert E. Lee in a series of very bloody battles in 1864 known as the Overland Campaign कि ended साथ the bottling up of ली at पीटर्सबर्ग, outside the Confederate capital of Richmond.
During the siege, Grant coordinated a series of devastating campaigns launched by विलियम tecumseh शरमन, फिलिप sheridan, और जार्ज Thomas.
Finally breaking through ली 's trenches, the संघ फौज captured Richmond in April 1865.
Lee surrendered his depleted forces to Grant at appomattox as the confederacy collapsed.
Although pro-Confederate इतिहासकारों attacked ग्रान्ट as a निष्ठुर कसाई who won by brute force, most historians have hailed his military genius.
Grant 's दो लगातार शर्तें as अध्यक्ष stabilized the स्वदेश बाद the American Civil War and during the turbulent Reconstruction period that followed.
As president, he enforced पुनर्निर्माण by enforcing सिविल अधिकारों कानून और लड़ ku klux Klan violence.
Grant won passage of the Fifteenth Amendment ; giving संवैधानिक सुरक्षा लिये african-american voting rights.
He used the army to निर्माण the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी in the दक्षिण, आधारित on ब्लैक मतदाता, उत्तरी newcomers ( `` carpetbaggers `` ) and native white supporters ( `` Scalawags. '' )
As a result, अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी यहूद represented in the u.S. कॉंग्रेस for the first time in American history in 1870.
Reformers praised Grant 's Indian peace policy by having broken the deadlock on Indian appropriations in Congress, the creation of the Board of Indian Commissioners to make reform recommendations, and his enlistment of quaker protestants जो नियंत्रित मिड पश्चिमी भारतीय एजेंसियों, कि effectively curbed congressional patronage.
Grant remained determined in keeping Indians from being exterminated इससे श्वेत settler अतिक्रमण or by the u.S. सैन्य.
Grant 's reputation as president by 1875 was at an all-time high for his पिछला वीटो of the महंगाई विधेयक, the ड्योढ़ी of the resumption of specie अधिनियम, और सचिव bristow 's कामयाब छापे कि shut bas the Whiskey Ring.
Grant 's foreign policy, led by Secretary of State Hamilton Fish, implemented International मध्यस्थता, settled the अलबामा दावा साथ ब्रिटेन और avoided युद्ध साथ स्पेन over the virginius Affair.
A jukebox is a partially स्वचालित music-playing यंत्र, प्रायः a coin-operated machine, that will play a patron 's selection from self-contained media.
The classic jukebox has buttons साथ अक्षर और संख्याएँ on उन्हें कि, जब डाला in संयोजन, are used to play a specific selection.
A drug test is a technical विश्लेषण of a biological नमूना – लिये उदाहरण मूत्र, बाल, रक्त, स्वेद, or मौखिक द्रव / लार – to determine the presence or absence of specified parent drugs or their metabolites.
Major uses of drug testing are to detect the presence of प्रदर्शन बढ़ाना steroids in खेल or लिये दवाएँ निषिद्ध by कानून, ऐसे as कैनबिस, कोका and heroin.
A `` 10-panel urine screen '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines ( सहित methamphetamine )
barbiturates
benzodiazepines
cannabinoids ( THC )
कोका
methadone
methaqualone
Opiates ( codeine, मॉरफीन, हेरोइन, oxycodone, Hydrocodone, etc. )
phencyclidine ( pcp )
propoxyphene
शनि v प्रक्षेपास्त्र, प्रयुक्त लिये the अमरीकी manned lunar landing missions
Space exploration is the discovery and exploration of बाहरी स्पेस by अर्थात् of स्पेस प्रौद्योगिकी.
Physical exploration of space is conducted दोनो by इंसान spaceflights and by robotic spacecraft.
While the observation of objects in space, known as खगोलशास्त्र, predates विश्वसनीय अंकित इतिहास, it थी the विकास of विशाल and relatively efficient rockets during the early 20th century that allowed physical space exploration to become a reality.
Common rationales for exploring space include advancing वैज्ञानिक शोध, uniting अलग राष्ट्र, ensuring the भविष्य अस्तित्व of मानवता और विकासशील सैन्य और रणनीतिक advantages against other countries.
विभिन्न आलोचनाओं of स्पेस खोजी are sometimes made.
Space exploration has often महरूम प्रयुक्त as a प्रॉक्सी competition for geopolitical rivalries such as the Cold War.
The early era of space exploration was driven by a `` स्पेस रेस `` between the सोवियत संघ और the संयुक्त राज्य, the launch of the first man-made object to orbit the Earth, the USSR 's Sputnik 1, on 4 October 1957, and the first Moon landing by the American Apollo 11 craft on 20 July 1969 are often taken as the boundaries for this initial period.
the सोवियत स्पेस कार्यक्रम हासिल अनेक of the पहला माइलस्टोन, सहित the पहला जीना होने in कक्षा in 1957, the first human spaceflight ( Yuri Gagarin aboard Vostok 1 ) in 1961, the first spacewalk ( by Aleksei Leonov ) on 18 March 1965, the first automatic landing on another celestial body in 1966, and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971.
After the first 20 years of exploration, फ़ोकस shifted इससे one-off फ़्लाइट to बेदर्दी हार्डवेयर, ऐसे as the स्पेस शटल कार्यक्रम, and from competition to cooperation as with the International Space Station ( ISS ).
With the substantial completion of the iss following sts-133 in कूच 2011, योजनाएँ for space exploration by the USA remain in flux.
Constellation, a Bush Administration program for a return to the Moon by 2020 was judged inadequately वित्तपोषित और unrealistic by an विशेषज्ञ पुनर्विलोकन फलक रिपोर्टिंग in 2009.
The Obama Administration प्रस्तावित a संशोधन of नक्षत्र in 2010 to फ़ोकस on the विकास of the काबिलियत लिये crewed मिशन परे कम धरती कक्षा ( leo ), envisioning extending the आपरेशन of the iss परे 2020, transferring the development of launch vehicles for human crews from NASA to the private sector, and developing technology to enable missions to beyond LEO, such as Earth/Moon L1, the Moon, Earth/Sun L2, near-earth asteroids, and Phobos or Mars orbit.
As of March 2011, the US Senate and House of प्रतिनिधि हैं स्टिल working towards a सुलह नासा funding विधेयक, जिससे होगा संभवतः terminate Constellation and fund development of a heavy lift launch vehicle ( HLLV ).
In the 2000s, the People 's Republic of China initiated a कामयाब मानवयुक्त spaceflight कार्यक्रम, जबकि the यूरोपीय संघ, जापानी, और इण्डिया have भी नियोजित भविष्य manned space missions.
China, Russia, Japan, and India have advocated manned missions to the Moon during the 21st century, while the European Union has advocated मानवयुक्त मिशन to दोनो the चंद्रमा और मंगल दौरान the 21st सदी.
From the 1990s onwards, private interests began promoting space पर्यटन और तब निजी स्पेस खोजी of the चंद्रमा ( देखिए Google Lunar X Prize ).
John calvin कूलिज, jr. ( जुलाई 4, 1872january 5, 1933 ) was the 30th President of the United States ( 1923–1929 ).
A रिपब्लिकन वकील इससे वर्मांट, कूलिज worked उसके रास्ता up the ladder of Massachusetts state politics, eventually becoming governor of that state.
His conduct दौरान the बोस्टन पुलिस स्ट्राइक of 1919 thrust उसे into the नेशनल स्पॉटलाइट and gave him a reputation as a man of decisive action.
जल्द बाद, he थी निर्वाचित as the 29th Vice President in 1920 and succeeded to the Presidency upon the sudden death of Warren G. Harding in 1923.
Elected in his own सही in 1924, he gained a प्रतिष्ठा as a small-government conservative, and also as a man who said very little.
Coolidge restored public विश्वास in the श्वेत हाउस बाद the घोटालों of उसके पूर्ववर्ती 's प्रशासन, and left office with considerable popularity.
As a Coolidge biographer put it, `` He embodied the स्पिरिट और उम्मीदें of the मध्य क्लास, could interpret उनके longings और एक्स्प्रेस उनके opinions.
That he did represent the genius of the औसत is the सबसे convincing प्रमाण of his strength. ''
Some later criticized Coolidge as भाग of a सामान्य आलोचना of laissez-faire government.
His reputation underwent a पुनर्जागरण दौरान the रोनाल्ड reagan प्रशासन, लकिन the परम मूल्यांकन of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी is स्टिल विभाजित between those who approve of his reduction of the size of government programs and those who believe the federal government should be more involved in regulating and controlling the economy.
एस्प्रेसो is a concentrated पेय brewed by forcing a छोटी राशि of nearly boiling water under pressure through finely ground coffee beans.
Espresso often has a thicker consistency than coffee brewed by other methods, a higher concentration of suspended and dissolved solids, and crema ( अर्थ मलाई, लकिन होने a सन्दर्भ to the झाग साथ a मलाईदार बनावट कि फ़ॉर्म as a परिणाम of the दबाव ).
As a result of the pressurized brewing प्रक्रम the जायका और रसायन in a typical cup of espresso are very concentrated.
Espresso is the आधार लिये अन्य पेय, ऐसे as a latte, कापुचीनो, macchiato, mocha, or americano.
Espresso has more caffeine per unit volume than most beverages, but the usual सेवारत आकार is smaller—a ठेठ 60 ml ( 2 us द्रव ounce ) of एस्प्रेसो रै 80 to 150 mg of caffeine, little less than the 95 to 200 mg of a standard 240 mL ( 8 US fluid ounces ) cup of drip-brewed coffee.
ब्रायन कैथ केली ( born अक्तूबर 25, 1961 ) is an American football coach and former player.
He is currently the head football coach for the Notre Dame लड़ आयरिश, a स्थिति he रै आयोजित चूंकि दिसम्बर 2009.
Kelly was previously सिर कोच at ग्रैंड घाटी राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों ( 1991–2003 ), Central Michigan University ( 2004–2006 ), and University of Cincinnati ( 2006–2009 ).
A contract is an agreement having a lawful object डाला into voluntarily by दो or अधिक पार्टियों, प्रत्येक of जिसको intends to create one or more legal obligations between them.
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity who एक्सचेंज `` विचार '' to बनाएँ `` mutuality of obligation. ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be किया in लिखने, हालांकि अनुबंध may be बना entirely orally or by conduct.
The remedy for उल्लंघन of अनुबंध can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति '' in the रूप of compensation of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction.
Both of these remedies award the party at loss the `` benefit of the सौदेबाजी '' or अपेक्षा क्षतिपूर्ति, जिससे हैं वृहद than mere रिलायंस क्षतिपूर्ति, as in promissory estoppel.
The parties may be प्राकृतिक व्यक्तियों or juristic व्यक्तियों.
A contract is a legally enforceable वादा or undertaking कि कुछ होगा or होगा not occur.
The word promise can be used as a legal पर्याय लिये अनुबंध, हालांकि परवाह is जरूरी as a वादा may not have the full standing of a contract, as when it is an agreement without consideration.
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another, including मतभेद in आम विधि compared to सिविल विधि, the प्रभाव of प्राप्त विधि, विशेषकर इससे इंग्लैण्ड in आम विधि देशों, और of law codified in regional legislation.
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example, there are 40 relevant acts which impact on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( संघीय / नेशनल ) स्तर, और an अतिरिक्त 26 अधिनियमों at the स्तर of the राज्य of NSW.
In addition there are 6 international यंत्र or प्रथाओं जिससे हैं लागू लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings, such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods.
Sidney Patrick Crosby, ONS ( born August 7, 1987 ) is a Canadian professional ice हॉकी खिलाड़ी जो is कप्तान of the पिट्सबर्ग penguins of the नेशनल Hockey League ( NHL ).
Crosby was drafted first overall by the Penguins out of the क्यूबेक प्रमुख जूनियर हॉकी League ( QMJHL ).
During his two-year major junior career with the Rimouski Océanic, he earned back-to-back CHL Player of the साल पुरस्कार और led उसके क्लबों to the 2005 मेमोरियल कप फाइनल.
Nicknamed `` The Next One ``, he was one of the most अत्यधिक regarded ड्राफ्ट चयन in हॉकी इतिहास, अग्रणी अनेक to refer to the 2005 Draft Lottery as the `` Sidney Crosby Sweepstakes ''.
In his first NHL ऋतु, crosby समाप्त छठे in लीग स्कोरिंग साथ 102 अंक ( 39 लक्ष्य, 63 assists ) और was a runner-up for the Calder Memorial Trophy ( won by Alexander Ovechkin ).
By his second season, he led the NHL with 120 points ( 36 goals, 84 assists ) to capture the Art Ross Trophy, becoming the youngest खिलाड़ी और the तभी किशोरावस्था to जीत a स्कोरिंग शीर्षक in कोई प्रमुख उत्तर अमरीकी खेल लीग.
That same season, Crosby also won the Hart मेमोरियल ट्रॉफी as the पेशेवर हॉकी लेखक संघ 's चुनाव लिये सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी और the लेस्टर B. पियर्सन पुरस्कार as the NHL Players Association 's choice for most outstanding player, becoming the seventh player in NHL history to earn all three awards in one year.
Crosby started the 2007–08 season with the team 's captaincy and subsequently led उन्हें to the 2008 स्टेनली कप फाइनल, जहाँ वे यहूद पराजित by the डेट्रॉयट Red Wings in six games.
The Penguins returned to the Finals against Detroit the following साल और जीती in सात खेल ; crosby became the youngest कप्तान in एनएचएल history to win the Stanley Cup.
In the 2009–10 season, Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals, tying him with Steven stamkos लिये the प्रक्षेपास्त्र रिचर्ड ट्रॉफी as the league-leader ; साथ 58 assists, he totaled 109 points, second in the NHL.
During the off-season, Crosby प्राप्त the चिह्नित मेसियर Leadership Award.
In 2010–11, Crosby sustained a concussion as a result of हिट्स to the सिर in back-to-back games.
The injury left उसे sidelined लिये टेन और a हाफ months.
However, after playing eight games in the 2011–12 season, crosby 's concussion-like लक्षण लौटे in दिसम्बर 2011, और he किया नहीं return until mid-March 2012.
Internationally, Crosby has represented कनाडा in numerous tournaments लिये the देश 's junior and men 's teams.
After competing in the 2003 u-18 जूनियर संसार कप, he represented कनाडा in back-to-back IIHF World U20 Championships, winning silver in 2004 and gold in 2005.
At the 2006 IIHF World Championship, he led the टूर्नामेंट in स्कोरिंग, जबकि भी कमाई शीर्ष आगे and All-Star Team honours.
Four years later, crosby थी नामित to टोली कनाडा for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver.
Playing the United States in the सुनहरा पदक खेल, he scored the game-winning goal in overtime.
A संयुक्त राज्य cent, भी known as a penny.
`` My two cents '' ( 2¢ ) and its longer version `` put my दो सेंट in '' is an संयुक्त राज्य ( us ) idiomatic अभिव्यक्ति, लिया इससे the असली अंग्रेज़ी मुहावरा अभिव्यक्ति : to put in `` my two pennies worth '' or `` my tuppence worth. ''
It is used to preface the tentative stating of one’s राय.
By deprecating the opinion to follow – suggesting its value is only two cents, a very small amount – the उपयोक्ता of the phrase उम्मीदें to lessen the प्रभाव of a possibly statement, showing politeness and humility.
However, it is also sometimes प्रयुक्त साथ विडंबना जब expressing a strongly felt opinion.
The phrase is also used out of आदत to preface uncontentious opinions.
लिये example:
The Chinese Civil War was a civil war in China fought between forces loyal to the government of the गणतंत्र of चीन led by the kuomintang ( kmt ) और शक्तियां of the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी of चीन ( cpc ).
The war began in April 1927, amidst the उत्तरी expedition, और essentially ended when major active battles ceased in 1950.
The conflict eventually resulted in two de facto states, the Republic of China ( ROC ) in Taiwan and the People 's Republic of China ( PRC ) in मेनलैंड चीन, दोनो claiming to be the legitimate सरकारी of चीन.
The war represented an ideological split ( Left vs. सही ) between the कम्युनिस्ट cpc, और the kmt 's ब्रांड of राष्ट्रवाद.
The civil war continued intermittently until late 1937, जब the दो पार्टियों formed a दूसरी संयुक्त Front to counter a Japanese invasion.
China 's full-scale civil war resumed in 1946, a year बाद the समाप्त of hostilities साथ Japan.
After four more years, 1950 देखी the cessation of प्रमुख सैन्य hostilities—with the newly संस्थापित लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन controlling मेनलैंड चीन ( सहित हाइनान ), और the गणतंत्र of China 's jurisdiction being restricted to Taiwan, Penghu, Quemoy, Matsu and several outlying islands.
The Kuomintang शिकस्त is attributed to अनेक कारकों : भ्रष्टाचार - च्यांग लिखा in उसके डायरी on June 1948 that the KMT had failed, not because of external enemies but because of rot from within.
Strong initial support from the U.S. diminished, और तब, रोका.
( partly क्युकी of kmt भ्रष्टाचार और anti-democratic शासन, और partly क्युकी of the uncertain U.S. foreign policy towards Communism between 1945 and 1950 ) ; Communist land reform policy promised poor peasants farmland from their landlords.
This ensured pla लोकप्रिय support.
After the surrender of Japan at the end of World War ii, सोवियत शक्तियां turned over उनके captured जापानी हथियार to the cpc और अनुमत the CPC to take control of territory in Manchuria.
To this day, no armistice or सलाम सन्धि रै कभी महरूम हस्ताक्षरित, और it is debated as to the whether the Civil War has legally ended.
Cross-Strait relations have been hindered by military threats and राजनैतिक और आर्थिक दबाव, विशेषकर over ताईवान 's राजनैतिक औकात, साथ दोनो सरकारें officially adhering to a `` One-China policy. ''
The PRC still actively claims Taiwan as part of इसके territory और continues to threaten the आरओसी साथ a सैन्य आक्रमण if the आरओसी officially declares स्वतंत्रता by बदलना its name to and gaining international recognition as the Republic of Taiwan.
the आरओसी mutually दावा मेनलैंड चीन, and they both continue the fight over diplomatic recognition.
Today, the युद्ध as ऐसे occurs on the राजनैतिक और आर्थिक fronts in the रूप of cross-Strait relations ; however, the two separate de facto states have close economic ties.
The One Hundred Twelfth United States Congress was the meeting of the legislative branch of the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी, इससे जनवरी 3, 2011 जबतक January 3, 2013.
It convened in Washington, D.C. on January 3, 2011, and ended on January 3, 2013, 17 days before the end of the अध्यक्षीय पद to जिससे बराक ओबामा थी निर्वाचित in 2008.
सीनेटरों निर्वाचित to नियमित शर्तें in 2006 completed those terms in this Congress.
This Congress included the last House of प्रतिनिधि निर्वाचित इससे congressional जिले कि यहूद apportioned based on the 2000 census.
In the 2010 midterm elections, the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी जीती the बहुमत in the हाउस of Representatives.
While the Democrats kept their सीनेट बहुमत, it थी घटाया इससे the previous Congress.
This was the first Congress in which the House and Senate were controlled by different parties since the 107th Congress ( 2001–2003 ), और the पहला कॉंग्रेस to शुरू कि रास्ता चूंकि the 99th कॉंग्रेस ( 1985–1987 ).
In this कॉंग्रेस, the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि था the largest number of Republican members, 242, since the 80th Congress ( 1947–1949 ).
It was also the first Congress since 1947 in which no member of the कैनेडी परिवार परोसा, as खूब as the सबसे नीतियां polarized कॉंग्रेस चूंकि पुनर्निर्माण, साथ रिकार्ड low approval ratings.
Wealth in the United राज्य is commonly measured in शर्तें of जाल लायक, जिससे is the योग of सब एसेट, सहित घर equity, minus all liabilities.
The total net worth of US households and nonprofit संगठन 1945–2009, unadjusted लिये महंगाई or population change.
For example, a household in possession of an $ 800,000 house, $ 5,000 in mutual funds, $ 30,000 in cars, $ 20,000 लायक of भण्डार in उनके अपना कम्पनी, और a $ 45,000 ira होता have एसेट totaling $ 900,000.
Assuming that this household would have a $ 250,000 बंधक, $ 40,000 in car लोन, और $ 10,000 in credit card debt, its debts would total $ 300,000.
Subtracting the debts from the worth of इस household 's एसेट ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ), इस household would have a net worth of $ 600,000.
जाल लायक can vary साथ fluctuations in value of the underlying assets.
The wealth —more specifically, the median net worth—of households in the संयुक्त राज्य is varied साथ संबंध to रेस, शिक्षा, भौगोलिक location and gender.
As one would expect, households साथ वृहद आय विशेषता the highest net worths, though high income can not be taken as an always accurate indicator of net worth.
Overall the number of wealthier households is on the वृद्धि, साथ baby boomers hitting the highs of their careers.
In addition, wealth is unevenly distributed, साथ the wealthiest 25 % of us households owning 87 % of the माल in the United States, which was $ 54.2 trillion in 2009.
Including human capital such as skills, the संयुक्त राष्ट्र अनुमानित the कुल माल of the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008 to be $ 118 trillion.
This article deals with Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy ( sdr ) बल्कि than the rhizotomy प्रक्रियाओं लिये पीड़ा राहत ; लिये those प्रक्रियाओं, जिससे have begun to take the name `` rhizotomy '' in certain instances, see facet rhizotomy and similar.
A rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly referring to a neurosurgical procedure that selectively destroys problematic nerve roots in the स्पाइनल cord, सबसे प्रायः to relieve the लक्षण of neuromuscular शर्तें ऐसे as spastic diplegia and other forms of spastic cerebral palsy.
The selective dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR ) for spastic cerebral palsy has been the main use of rhizotomy for neurosurgeons specialising in spastic cp चूंकि the 1980s ; in इस सर्जरी, the spasticity-causing nerves are isolated and then targeted and destroyed.
The संवेदी तंत्रिका जड़ें, जहाँ spasticity is स्तिथ, हैं पहला अलग इससे the मोटर ones, और the तंत्रिका मछली to be cut are then identified via electromyographic stimulation.
The ones producing spasticity are तब selectively lesioned साथ छोटा विद्युत pulses.
In spasticity, rhizotomy precisely targets and destroys the क्षतिग्रस्त nerves कि don’t प्राप्त गामा अमीनो butyric एसिड, which is the core problem for people with spastic cerebral palsy.
These over-firing, non-GABA-absorbing nerves generate unusual विद्युत कार्यकलाप दौरान the emg परीक्षण phase in sdr और हैं यूँ माना to be the सोर्स of the रोगी 's hypertonia ; वे हैं eliminated साथ the विद्युत pulses once identified, while the remaining nerves and nerve routes carrying the correct messages remain fully intact and untouched.
This means that the spasticity is permanently dissolved, and that this is किया बगैर affecting बेचैन प्रणाली संवेदनशीलता or फलन in अन्य areas, because the only nerves destroyed are the over-firing ones responsible for the muscle tightness.
The शर्तें rhizotomy और neurotomy are also increasingly becoming interchangeable in the treatment of chronic back pain from degenerative disc disease.
This is a procedure called a facet rhizotomy and is not a surgical procedure but is बजाय किया on an outpatient आधार using a सरल जांच to लागू radiofrequency लहरें to the impinged pain-causing तंत्रिका रूट lying between the facet joint and the vertebral body.
Such रेडियो आवृत्ति तंत्रिका lesioning परिणाम in पाँच to आठ or अधिक महीने of पीड़ा राहत पहले the तंत्रिका regenerates और another round of the procedure needs to be performed.
A facet rhizotomy is just one of many different forms of radiofrequency ablation, और इसके उपयोग of the `` rhizotomy '' नाम चाहिए not be confused with the SDR procedure.
Migrant मजदूर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, 1935
The term migrant worker has अलग आधिकारिक meanings और connotations in अलग parts of the world.
The United Nations ' definition is व्यापक, सहित कोई लोगों working बाहर of उनके home country.
The term can also be used to describe किसी जो migrates भीतर a देश, संभवतः उनके अपना, in अनुक्रम to pursue work such as seasonal work.
फोटोग्राफ of लील वेन साथ teardrop tattoos below his eyes.
The teardrop tattoo or tear tattoo is a सांकेतिक टैटू कि is लगाई underneath the eye.
It has no fixed meaning but लगभग सब meanings ( देखिए नीचे ) have some connection to prison.
U.S. रूट 75 is a north–south U.S. Highway.
the राजमार्ग 's उत्तरी टर्मिनस is in kittson काउंटी, मिनेसोटा, at the कनाडाई किनारा, जहाँ it once continued as Manitoba Highway 75 on the other side of the now-closed border crossing.
Its southern टर्मिनस is at अंतरराज्यीय 30 और अंतरराज्यीय 45 in Dallas, Texas, where it is known as North Central Expressway.
U.S. 75 was a border-to-border रूट, इससे कनाडा to the गल्फ of मैक्सिको at Galveston, Texas.
However, the entire segment south of Dallas, Texas has been decommissioned in एहसान of अंतरराज्यीय 45, a कटऑफ खण्ड of town-to-town सतह सड़क having become State Highway 75.
Lower Ninth वार्ड is a पड़ोस of the city of New Orleans.
As the name implies, it is भाग of the नवीं वार्ड of नई ऑरलियन्स.
The Lower Ninth Ward is often thought of as the entire area within New Orleans downriver of the औद्योगिक कनाल ; however, the नगर नियोजन आयोग divides इस क्षेत्रफल into the निम्नतर नवीं Ward ( 2 ) and Holy Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods.
The term `` Lower '' refers to its location farther towards the mouth of the मिसिसिपी नदी, `` bas '' or `` नीचे '' the बाकी of the नगर in लोकल भौगोलिक शब्दावली.
But the 9th वार्ड, जैसे सब wards in नई ऑरलियन्स, is a voting district.
The 9th वार्ड थी added as a मतदान district in 1852.
The `` lower '' 9th Ward is composed of Ward 9 Districts 1, 2, 4, and 7 which मेक up the पावन क्रॉस क्षेत्रफल और वार्ड 9 जिले 3, 5, 6, और 8.
उच्चतर मतदान ज़िला संख्याएँ in the 9th Ward ( 8-27 ) are on the upriver side of the Industrial Canal.
The area came to नेशनल ध्यान लिये इसके devastation in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
Hubble views of कोपरनिकस crater ( इनसेट ), which is about 58 miles ( 93 km ) wide
Red and orange tinted Moon, as seen from Earth during a lunar ग्रहण, जहाँ the धरती आता between the Moon and Sun
the चंद्रमा is the तभी प्राकृतिक उपग्रह of the Earth, and the fifth largest satellite in the Solar System.
It is the largest प्राकृतिक उपग्रह of a ग्रह in the सौर प्रणाली सापेक्ष to the आकार of its primary, having 27 % the diameter and 60 % the density of Earth, resulting in its mass.
The Moon is the दूसरी densest उपग्रह बाद io, a satellite of Jupiter.
The Moon is in synchronous rotation with Earth, always showing the same face with its near side चिह्नित by अंधेरा volcanic मरिया कि भरण between the उज्जवल प्राचीन crustal हाइलैंड्स और the prominent impact craters.
It is the brightest ऑब्जेक्ट in the आसमान बाद the सूर्य, हालांकि इसके सतह is दरअसल बहुत अंधेरा, साथ a reflectance similar to that of coal.
Its prominence in the sky and its regular cycle of phases have, चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स, बना the चंद्रमा an महत्वपूर्ण सांस्कृतिक influence on भाषा, calendars, art and mythology.
The Moon 's gravitational influence produces the समंदर tides और the मिनट lengthening of the दिन.
The Moon 's current orbital distance, about thirty times the diameter of the Earth, causes it to appear almost the same size in the आसमान as the सूर्य, allowing it to कवर the सूर्य nearly precisely in कुल सौर eclipses.
This matching of apparent विज़ुअल आकार is a संयोग.
The Moon 's linear अलहदा इससे the धरती is फिलहाल increasing at a रेट of 3.82±0.07cm per year, but this rate is not constant.
The Moon is thought to have formed nearly 4.5 अरब सालो पहले, नहीं long बाद the Earth.
Although there have been several hypotheses for its origin in the past, the current most widely accepted स्पष्टीकरण is कि the चंद्रमा formed इससे the मलबा बाएँ over बाद a दानव प्रभाव between Earth and a Mars -sized body.
The चंद्रमा is the तभी celestial देह अन्य than धरती on which humans have set foot.
The Soviet Union 's Luna programme was the first to reach the Moon with unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the संयुक्त राज्य ' नासा अपोलो कार्यक्रम हासिल the तभी मानवयुक्त मिशन to तिथि, शुरूआत साथ the पहला मानवयुक्त चंद्र orbiting मिशन by अपोलो 8 in 1968, और छह मानवयुक्त चंद्र अवतरण between 1969 and 1972, with the first being Apollo 11.
These missions returned over 380 kg of lunar rocks, which have महरूम प्रयुक्त to develop a geological समझना of the चंद्रमा 's origins, the formation of its internal structure, and its subsequent history.
बाद the अपोलो 17 मिशन in 1972, the चंद्रमा रै been visited only by unmanned spacecraft, notably by the final Soviet Lunokhod rover.
Since 2004, Japan, चीन, इण्डिया, the संयुक्त राज्य, और the यूरोपीय Space Agency have each sent lunar orbiters.
These spacecraft have contributed to confirming the डिस्कवरी of चंद्र जल बर्फ in permanently shadowed craters at the डंडे और bound into the lunar regolith.
भविष्य मानवयुक्त मिशन to the चंद्रमा have महरूम नियोजित, including government as well as privately funded efforts.
The Moon remains, under the Outer स्पेस सन्धि, फ़्री to सब राष्ट्र to explore for peaceful purposes.
Ronald Wilson Reagan ( ; फ़रवरी 6, 1911 – जून 5, 2004 ) थी the 40th President of the United States ( 1981–1989 ).
Prior to that, he was the 33rd Governor of California ( 1967–1975 ), and a रेडियो, फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न कर्ता.
Born in Tampico, Illinois, and raised in Dixon, Reagan was educated at Eureka कॉलेज, कमाई a स्नातक of कला उपाधि in अर्थशास्त्र and sociology.
After graduating, Reagan moved first to Iowa to कार्य as a रेडियो प्रसारणकर्ता और तब, in 1937, to लॉस एंजिल्स जहाँ he began a करियर as an actor, first in films and later television.
Some of his most notable films include Knute Rockne, All American ( 1940 ), किंग्स पंक्ति ( 1942 ), और bedtime लिये bonzo ( 1951 ).
Reagan served as President of the Screen Actors Guild and later as a प्रवक्ता लिये सामान्य इलेक्ट्रिक ( ge ) ; उसके प्रारंभ in राजनीती occurred दौरान his work for GE.
originally a सदस्य of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी, उसके स्थितियाँ began shifting rightward in the 1950s, and he switched to the Republican Party in 1962.
बाद delivering a rousing वाक in support of बैरी goldwater 's अध्यक्षीय candidacy in 1964, he was persuaded to seek the California governorship, winning two years later and again in 1970.
He was defeated in his run for the रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्षीय नामांकन in 1968 और in 1976, लकिन जीती दोनो the nomination and general election in 1980, defeating incumbent Jimmy Carter.
As president, Reagan implemented sweeping नई राजनैतिक और आर्थिक initiatives.
His supply-side economic policies, dubbed `` Reaganomics ``, advocated reducing tax rates to spur economic growth, controlling the धन सप्लाई to reduce महंगाई, deregulation of the अर्थव्यवस्था, and reducing government spending.
In his first term he survived an assassination attempt, took a hard line विरूद्ध मजदूर संघ, घोषित a नई युद्ध on दवाएँ, और ordered an invasion of Grenada.
He थी re-elected in a भूस्खलन in 1984, proclaiming कि it was `` Morning in America ``.
His second term was primarily marked by foreign matters, such as the ending of the Cold War, the 1986 bombing of लीबिया, और the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair.
Publicly describing the Soviet Union as an `` evil साम्राज्य ``, he समर्थित anti-communist आंदोलनों विश्वव्यापी और खर्च उसके पहला पद forgoing the रणनीति of détente by ordering a massive military buildup in an arms race with the USSR.
Reagan negotiated with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev, culminating in the inf सन्धि और the घटी of दोनो countries ' nuclear arsenals.
reagan बाएँ दफ्तर in 1989.
In 1994, the former president disclosed कि he था महरूम diagnosed साथ अल्जाइमर 's बीमारी पहले in the साल ; he died ten years later at the age of 93.
A conservative icon, he बाँधने अत्यधिक in पब्लिक राय पोल of u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों और is credited लिये generating an वैचारिक renaissance on the American political right.
Complete set of scrolls, constituting the entire Tanakh.
The Tanakh (, or ; also Tenakh, Tenak, Tanach ) is a नाम प्रयुक्त in judaism लिये the canon of the Hebrew Bible.
the tanakh is भी ज्ञात as the Masoretic Text or the Miqra.
The name is an acronym formed इससे the आरंभिक यहूदी अक्षर of the masoretic टेक्स्ट 's तीन परंपरागत subdivisions : The Torah ( `` Teaching '', also known as the Five Books of Moses ), Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
The नाम `` miqra '' ( מקרא ), अर्थ `` कि जिससे is पढ़ा '', is an alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh.
The books of the Tanakh यहूद relayed साथ an accompanying मौखिक परंपरा passed on by प्रत्येक पीढी, called the Oral Torah.
The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R is a कावासाकी 600 cc क्लास sport motorcycle.
It was introduced in 1995, and has महरूम constantly अद्यतनीकृत throughout the सालो in जवाब to नई उत्पाद इससे Honda, Suzuki, and Yamaha.
The ZX series is what was known as the निंजा लकीर of कावासाकी मोटरसाइकिल in the 1980s and still carries the name today.
Assassination attempts and plots on राष्ट्रपतियों of the संयुक्त राज्य have महरूम numerous : अधिक than 20 कोशिशें to kill sitting and former presidents, as well as the Presidents-elect, are known.
Four sitting presidents have been killed : Abraham Lincoln ( the 16th President ), James A. Garfield ( the 20th अध्यक्ष ), विलियम mckinley ( the 25th अध्यक्ष ) और जॉन F. कैनेडी ( the 35th President ).
Two presidents were injured in attempted assassinations : पूर्व अध्यक्ष थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ( the 26th अध्यक्ष ), और अध्यक्ष Ronald Reagan ( the 40th President ).
Although the historian j.w. क्लार्क रै सुझाया कि सबसे अमरीकी assassinations were politically motivated actions, carried out by rational men, not all such attacks have been undertaken for political reasons.
Some attackers had questionable दिमागी स्थिरता, और a few यहूद judged legally insane.
Since the Vice President of the United States has for more than a सदी महरूम निर्वाचित इससे the वही राजनैतिक पार्टी as the अध्यक्ष, the हत्या of the President is unlikely to result in major policy changes.
This may explain why political groups typically do नहीं मेक ऐसे हमले.
Where the Red Fern Grows is a अनोखा लिखा by विल्सन राल्स in 1961 परिचय a लड़के जो खरीदता और रेल दो redbone Coonhound hunting dogs.
Oklahoma ( ) ( pawnee : uukuhuúwa, cay : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in West South Central United States.
Oklahoma is the 20th सबसे extensive और the 28th सबसे populous of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य.
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and humma, अर्थ `` रेड लोगों '', और it is ज्ञात informally by इसके nickname, The Sooner State.
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma territory और भारतीय territory on नवम्बर 16, 1907, ओक्लाहोमा थी the 46th state to enter the union.
Its residents are known as Oklahomans or, informally `` okies '', और इसके पूंजी और largest नगर is Oklahoma City.
A major निर्माता of प्राकृतिक गैस, आयल, और कृषि, ओक्लाहोमा relies on an economic base of aviation, energy, telecommunications, and biotechnology.
It has one of the तीव्रतम growing economies in the स्वदेश, रैंकिंग among the शीर्ष राज्य in per capita income growth and gross domestic product growth.
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors, with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living भीतर उनके महानगर सांख्यिकीय areas.
With small mountain ranges, prairie, mesas, and eastern forests, most of Oklahoma lies in the Great मैदान और the u.s. आंतरिक हाइलैंड्स —a प्रदेश विशेषकर prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a prevalence of English, German, स्कॉटिश, आयरिश और देशी अमरीकी ancestry, अधिक than 25 देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं हैं spoken in Oklahoma, second only to California.
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions and historically served as a रूट लिये चौपायों ड्राइव, a गंतव्य लिये दक्षिणी settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans.
Redwall, by Brian ज़ाक, is a श्रेणी of children 's काल्पनिक novels.
It is the title of the first book of the series, published in 1986, as well as the name of the Abbey featured in the किताब और the नाम of an एनिमेटेड tv श्रेणी आधारित on तीन of the novels ( redwall, mattimeo, and Martin the Warrior ), which first aired in 1999.
The books are primarily aimed at older children, लकिन have प्रशंसक of सब ages.
There have been twenty-two novels और दो चित्र किताबे published.
The twenty-second, और फाइनल, अनोखा, The Rogue Crew, was posthumously released on May 3, 2011.
Natural Gas is usually measured by volume in the संयुक्त राज्य और is stated in cubic feet.
A cubic foot of gas is the amount of gas needed to fill a volume of one cubic foot under set शर्तें of दबाव और temperature.to माप larger amounts of natural gas, a `` therm '' is used to denote 100 cubic feet, and `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 cubic feet.
To provide वृहद सटीकता in comparing fuels, energy content is measured in terms of `` British Thermal Units ( BTU 's ). ''
A BTU is the amount of heat required to raise one पाउंड of जल ( लगभग a pint ), एक degree Fahrenheit at or close to its point of maximum density.
One British therm ( symbol thm ) is a non- si ईकाई of ऊष्मा उर्जा बराबर to 100,000 British thermal units ( BTU ).
It is approximately the energy समतुल्य of burning 100 घन फीट ( प्रायः referred to as 1 CCF ) of natural gas.
Since ( Natural Gas ) meters measure volume and not energy content, a therm फ़ैक्टर is प्रयुक्त by ( प्राकृतिक ) गैस कंपनियाँ to बदलें the आवाज़ of गैस प्रयुक्त to इसके ऊष्मा समतुल्य, और यूँ calculate the actual energy use.
The therm factor is प्रायः in the इकाई therms/ccf.
It होगा vary साथ the मिक्सर of hydrocarbons in the natural gas.
Natural gas with a higher than average concentration of ethane, प्रोपेन or ब्यूटेन होगा have a उच्चतर therm factor.
Impurities, such as कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड or नाइट्रोजन, निम्नतर the therm factor.
The volume of the gas is calculated as if measured at मानक तापमान और दबाव ( STP ).
The heat content of natural gas is solely dependent on the संयोजन of the गैस, और is स्वतंत्र of तापमान और दबाव.
One therm is equal to परिचय 105.5 megajoules, 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours.
One therm can also be provided by परिचय of natural gas.
The therm sometimes रै महरूम उलझन साथ the thermie ( see below ).
The names of both units आइये इससे the यूनानी शब्द लिये ऊष्मा.
A thermie ( th ) is a metric unit of heat उर्जा, भाग of the meter-tonne-second प्रणाली sometimes प्रयुक्त by यूरोपीय engineers.
The thermie is equal to the amount of energy required to उठाएँ the तापमान of 1 tonne of water by 1 °C.
The thermie is equivalent to 1,000 kilocalories, 4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3 btu.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
the युद्ध था इसके उत्पत्ति in the issue of slavery, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories.
विदेशी शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, और the मुश्किल Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate civil war.
Eight बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी to अस्वीकृत calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to ढूँढें a सुलह, और दोनो sides prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on अप्रैल 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट Sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; नतीजतन, चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy, bringing उनके कुल to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the दक्षिणी economy.
The पूर्वी थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam, dissuading British intervention.
lincoln जारी the emancipation उदघोषणा, which made ending slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, और the संघ at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate army failed, leading to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत हाउस on अप्रैल 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक युद्धों.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American history, resulting in the deaths of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian हताहत.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged 18–40.
William Bruce Jenner ( born अक्तूबर 28, 1949 ) is a पूर्व u.S. track और फ़ील्ड खिलाड़ी, प्रेरक स्पीकर, socialite, television personality and businessman.
He won the gold medal लिये decathlon in the मॉन्ट्रियल 1976 Summer Olympics.
Following his Olympic win and the related recognition, he married Kris Kardashian, and his पेशेवर करियर विकसित into होने a टेलीविज़न celebrity.
By 1981, he था स्ट्रक्चर in अनेक made-for-tv फिल्मों and was Erik Estrada 's replacement on the top rated TV series CHiPs.
He has छह children : बर्ट, केसी, ब्रैंडन, Brody, Kendall and Kylie.
Since his 1991 marriage to क्रिस जेनर, he is the stepfather to कोर्टनी, Kim, Khloe and Rob Kardashian.
Since 2007, he रै appeared साथ उसके blended परिवार on Keeping Up with the Kardashians.
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly abbreviated E. कोलाई ) is a gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium that is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms ).
Most E. coli strains are harmless, but कुछ serotypes can कारण गंभीर खाना विषाक्तता in इंसानो, और हैं occasionally responsible for product recalls due to food contamination.
The harmless strains हैं भाग of the सामान्य फ्लोरा of the आंत, और can लाभ उनके होस्ट by producing विटामिन k2, और by preventing the establishment of pathogenic bacteria within the intestine.
E. coli and related bacteria constitute about 0.1 % of gut flora, and fecal–oral हस्तांतरण is the प्रमुख रूट through जिससे रोगजनक strains of the bacterium कारण disease.
Cells are able to survive outside the body for a limited amount of समय, जिससे makes उन्हें आदर्श indicator जीवों to परीक्षण पर्यावरणीय नमूने for fecal contamination.
There is, however, a growing body of शोध कि रै examined environmentally persistent E. कोलाई जिससे can जीवित लिये extended periods outside of the host.
The bacterium can also be grown easily and inexpensively in a प्रयोगशाला सेटिंग, और रै महरूम intensively investigated for over 60 years.
E. coli is the most widely studied prokaryotic model organism, and an important species in the फ़ील्ड of जैवप्रौद्योगिकी और सूक्ष्मजैविकी, जहाँ it रै परोसा as the मेजबान सजीव लिये the majority of work with recombinant DNA.
Area code 217 is the North अमरीकी टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल कोड लिये much of पश्चिमी और सेंट्रल इलिनोइस.
The 217 area includes Illinois ' पूंजी, springfield, प्लस champaign, Urbana, Decatur, Danville, Quincy, and Rantoul.
217 was one of the original area कोड, जिससे यहूद निर्मित in 1947.
The only significant change in 217 's सीमाएँ थी in 1957, जब इसके उत्तरी portion थी संयुक्त with part of area code 815 to form area code 309.
Image of the largest अंटार्कटिक ओज़ोन छेद कभी अंकित ( सितंबर 2006 ), over the Southern pole
Layers of the माहौल ( नहीं to स्केल )
Ozone depletion describes two distinct but related phenomena observed चूंकि the लेट 1970s : a स्थिर मनाही of परिचय 4 % प्रति दशक in the कुल आवाज़ of ओज़ोन in Earth 's stratosphere ( the ozone layer ), and a much larger springtime decrease in stratospheric ozone over Earth 's polar regions.
The latter phenomenon is referred to as the ओज़ोन hole.
In addition to these well-known stratospheric phenomena, वहीँ हैं भी springtime polar tropospheric ozone depletion events.
The details of ध्रुवीय ओज़ोन छेद गठन differ इससे कि of mid-latitude thinning, लकिन the most important process in both is catalytic destruction of ozone by atomic halogens.
The main source of these halogen atoms in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( CFCs, freons, halons ).
ये यौगिकों हैं transported into the stratosphere after being emitted at the surface.
Both types of ozone depletion were observed to बढ़ाएँ as emissions of halo-carbons increased.
CFCs and अन्य contributory substances हैं referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ).
Since the ozone layer prevents most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of ultraviolet light ( UV light ) from passing through the Earth 's atmosphere, observed and projected decreases in ozone have generated विश्वव्यापी चिंता अग्रणी to अपनाना of the मॉन्ट्रियल प्रोटोकॉल कि bans the उत्पादन of cfcs, halons, और अन्य ozone-depleting chemicals such as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane.
It is suspected that a variety of biological consequences such as increases in स्किन कर्कट, cataracts, क्षति to पौधे, और कटौती of प्लवक populations in the ocean 's photic zone may result from the increased UV exposure due to ozone depletion.
The Preamble to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान is a ब्रैड परिचयात्मक बयान of the संविधान 's fundamental purposes and guiding principles.
It राज्य in सामान्य शर्तें, और न्यायालयों have referred to it as विश्वसनीय evidence of, the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning and what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States.
As the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates इससे the लोगों of the संयुक्त राज्य और it सेट into गति a सवाल as it pertains to कि विशाल जनसांख्यिकी concerning the व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों और समता among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy.
Czechoslovakian शॉट putter plihan at the 1957 East German Indoor Athletics Championships
The shot put ( सुनाया ) is a track और फ़ील्ड इवेंट involving `` फेंकना '' / '' putting '' ( फेंकना in a pushing motion ) a heavy spherical object —the shot—as far as possible.
The shot put प्रतियोगिता लिये मेन रै महरूम a भाग of the आधुनिक ओलंपिक चूंकि उनके पुनरुद्धार in 1896, women 's competition began in 1948.
Map of the United Nations ( UN ) member states, with their territories ( सहित निर्भर territories ) पहचाना by the UN in blue
There are संयुक्त राष्ट्र ( un ) सदस्य राज्य, और प्रत्येक of उन्हें is a member of the United Nations General Assembly.
The criteria for admission of new members are नियत आउट in the संयुक्त राष्ट्र चार्टर, Chapter II, Article 4:
A recommendation for admission from the Security Council requires affirmative मत इससे at तनिक नौ of the परिषद 's पंद्रह सदस्यों, साथ none of the five permanent members voting against.
the सुरक्षा परिषद 's अनुशंसा जरूर तब be subsequently approved in the General Assembly by a two-thirds majority vote.
In principle, only sovereign राज्य can become un सदस्यों, और फिलहाल सब un सदस्यों हैं sovereign राज्य ( हालांकि a few members were not sovereign when they joined the UN ).
Because a state can only be admitted to the UN by the approval of the Security Council and the General Assembly, a number of states that may be considered sovereign राज्य according to the montevideo सम्मेलन मापदण्ड हैं नहीं सदस्यों क्युकी the un करता नहीं consider उन्हें to possess sovereignty, mainly due to the lack of international recognition or opposition from certain members.
In addition to the member states, the UN also invites non-member states ( फिलहाल दो : the पावन देखिए और फिलिस्तीन ), intergovernmental संगठन, और अन्य अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन और entities जिनकी statehood or sovereignty are not precisely defined, to become observers at the General Assembly, allowing them to participate and speak, but not vote, in General Assembly meetings.
The Eiffel मीनार (, ) is an आयरन जाली मीनार स्तिथ on the champ de मंगल in Paris, named after the engineer Gustave Eiffel, whose company designed and built the tower.
Erected in 1889 as the entrance arch to the 1889 World 's Fair, it has become both a वैश्विक सांस्कृतिक प्रतीक of फ़्रांस और एक of the सबसे recognizable structures in the world.
The tower is the tallest ढांचा in पेरिस और the most-visited सशुल्क स्मारक in the संसार ; 7.1 लाख people ascended it in 2011.
The third level observatory 's upper मंच is at the उच्चतम accessible to पब्लिक in the European Union and the highest in Europe as long as the platform of the Ostankino Tower, at, remains closed as a result of the fire of August 2000.
The tower received its 250 millionth आगंतुक in 2010.
The tower stands tall, about the same ऊँचाई as an 81-storey building.
During its construction, the Eiffel Tower surpassed the Washington Monument to assume the title of the tallest man-made ढांचा in the संसार, a शीर्षक it आयोजित लिये 41 सालो, जबतक the क्रिसलर भवन in नई यॉर्क नगर थी निर्मित in 1930.
Because of the addition, in 1957, of the एंटीना atop the एफिल मीनार, it is now taller than the Chrysler Building.
Not including broadcast antennas, it is the second-tallest ढांचा in फ़्रांस, बाद the Millau Viaduct.
the मीनार रै तीन levels for visitors.
Tickets can be खरीदा to ascend, by सीढ़ियाँ or लिफ्ट ( elevator ), to the first and second levels.
The walk from मैदान स्तर to the पहला स्तर is over 300 कदम, as is the walk from the first to the second level.
The third और उच्चतम स्तर is accessible तभी by lift—stairs do exist but are usually closed to the public.
the पहला और second levels have restaurants.
the मीनार रै become the सबसे prominent प्रतीक of दोनो पेरिस और France, often in the establishing shot of films set in the city.
Kenneth Wayne `` Ken '' Jennings III ( born May 23, 1974 ) is an अमरीकी खेल दिखाएँ प्रतियोगी and author.
Jennings is noted for holding the record for the longest जीतना streak on the u.S. syndicated game show Jeopardy !
and as being the all-time अग्रणी धन विजेता on अमरीकी game shows.
In 2004, जेनिंग्स जीती 74 jeopardy !
games before he was पराजित by चैलेंजर नैंसी zerg on उसके 75th appearance.
उसके कुल आय on Jeopardy !
are $ 3,172,700, consisting of $ 2,520,700 over his 74 wins, a $ 2,000 second-place पुरस्कार in उसके 75th रूप, a $ 500,000 second-place prize in the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions, as खूब as हाफ of a $ 300,000 पुरस्कार in the ibm चुनौती.
During उसके पहला चलाएं of jeopardy !
appearances, Jennings earned the record for the उच्चतम अमरीकी खेल दिखाएँ winnings.
His total was surpassed by Brad Rutter, जो पराजित जेनिंग्स in the फाइनल of the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions ( पहला aired on may 25, 2005 ), adding $ 2,000,000 to Rutter 's existing Jeopardy !
winnings.
Jennings regained the record after appearing on several other game shows, culminating in an रूप on हैं तुम होशियार Than a 5th Grader ?
( first aired on अक्तूबर 10, 2008 ), हालांकि rutter retains the Jeopardy !
रिकार्ड.
After his success on Jeopardy !, जेनिंग्स लिखा परिचय उसके अनुभव और छान अमरीकी ट्रिविया इतिहास और संस्कृति in उसके किताब brainiac : Adventures in the Curious, Competitive, Compulsive World of Trivia Buffs, published in 2006.
The Canadian फ़ुटबॉल लीग or cfl ( ' [ lcf ] in फ्रेंच ) is a पेशेवर खेल लीग located in Canada.
The CFL is the highest level of competition in Canadian फ़ुटबॉल, a रूप of gridiron फ़ुटबॉल closely related to American football.
Its eight current teams, which are located in eight separate cities, are विभाजित into दो विभाजन of चार टीमों प्रत्येक — the East Division and the West Division.
The league 's 19-week नियमित ऋतु रनों इससे लेट जून to जल्दी नवम्बर ; प्रत्येक team plays 18 games with one bye week.
Following the regular season, the three teams with the best records in their division ( except if the fourth place team in one division रै a बेहतर रिकार्ड than the तीसरा प्लेस टोली in the अन्य प्रभाग, जब the टोली साथ the बेहतर रिकार्ड makes the playoffs and `` crosses over '' to the other division 's playoff ) compete in the league 's three-week divisional playoffs, which culminate in the late-November Grey Cup championship, the country 's largest annual sports and television event.
The CFL was officially founded on January 19, 1958, बनाना it the दूसरी oldest gridiron फ़ुटबॉल लीग in उत्तर अमेरिका स्टिल in operation, although all its teams long predate the modern formation of the league.
It is the highest level of play in Canadian फ़ुटबॉल, the सबसे लोकप्रिय फ़ुटबॉल लीग in कनाडा, और the second-most लोकप्रिय प्रमुख खेल league in Canada, after the National Hockey League.
Although ice hockey is Canada 's सबसे लोकप्रिय खेल, the cfl रै increased the लोकप्रियता of कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल in Quebec and Western Canada.
Canadian football is also निभाई at amateur स्तर ( i.e. युवावस्था, ऊँची स्कूल, cjfl, QJFL, CIS and senior leagues such as the Alberta Football League ).
The 2010s will be a significant दशक लिये the cfl in शर्तें of विकास, as टीमों have संवर, विस्तारित स्टेडियम, or plan to build entirely new stadiums.
the मॉन्ट्रियल अलॉतेस संपन्नता इस पहला, adding 5,000 सीटे to Percival Molson Memorial Stadium in time for the 2010 CFL season.
The Edmonton Eskimos and Calgary स्तेमपेड्रस भी संवर उनके संबंधित स्टेडियम और सुविधाएं for the 2010 season.
In 2011, the bc शेर निभाई under a new, retractable roof in BC Place after spending one and a half seasons at Empire Field.
Then the Winnipeg ब्लू बमवर्षक होगा खेल in an entirely नई स्टेडियम at the University of Manitoba, scheduled to open in time for the 2013 season.
The Hamilton Tiger-Cats, Saskatchewan Roughriders and the new Ottawa franchise are also looking at नई or extensively-renovated स्टेडियम in the following years.
वहीँ हैं भी उम्मीदें of expanding the लीग to अटलांटिक कनाडा ( ideally basing a टोली in either the अधिक आबादी halifax, or the more centralized Moncton ), as 2010 and 2011 had regular season games hosted in Moncton.
According to sports historian Douglas Brei, the Canadian Football League holds the distinction of being the only पेशेवर खेल लीग in उत्तर अमेरिका, प्रमुख or नाबालिग लीग, in जिससे प्रत्येक मौजूदा मताधिकार रै जीती at तनिक one league title while in their current location.
Each antibody binds to a विशिष्ट प्रतिजन ; an बातचीत समान to a lock and key.
An antibody ( Ab ), also known as an immunoglobulin ( Ig ), is a large Y-shaped protein produced by b-cells कि is प्रयुक्त by the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली to पहचानो और neutralize foreign objects such as bacteria and viruses.
The antibody recognizes a अद्वितीय भाग of the foreign target, called an antigen.
Each tip of the `` Y '' of an antibody contains a paratope ( a ढांचा analogous to a ताला ) कि is विशिष्ट लिये एक particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a कुंजी ) on an प्रतिजन, allowing ये दो structures to bind together with precision.
Using this binding mechanism, an antibody can tag a microbe or an infected cell for attack by other भाग of the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली, or can neutralize इसके निशाना सीधे ( for example, by blocking a part of a microbe that is essential for its invasion and survival ).
The production of antibodies is the main फलन of the humoral immune system.
Antibodies are secreted by a प्रकार of श्वेत रक्त कोशिका पुकारा a plasma cell.
Antibodies can occur in two physical forms, a soluble form that is स्रावित इससे the कोशिका, और a झिल्ली -bound रूप कि is संलग्न to the सतह of a B cell and is referred to as the B cell receptor ( BCR ).
The BCR is only found on the surface of B cells and facilitates the activation of these cells and their subsequent differentiation into either एंटीबॉडी कारखानों पुकारा प्लाज्मा कोशिकाएं, or मेमोरी b कोशिकाएं कि होगा जीवित in the देह और याद कि वही प्रतिजन so the B cells can respond faster upon future exposure.
In most cases, interaction of the B cell with a T helper cell is जरुरी to उपज पूरा सक्रियण of the b कोशिका और, इसलिए, एंटीबॉडी पीढी following antigen binding.
Soluble antibodies are released into the रक्त और ऊतक fluids, as खूब as अनेक secretions to continue to survey for invading microorganisms.
antibodies हैं glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the terms antibody and immunoglobulin are often used interchangeably.
Antibodies are typically बना of मौलिक संरचनात्मक units—each साथ two large heavy chains and two small light chains.
There are several different types of antibody heavy chains, and several different kinds of antibodies, which are grouped into अलग isotypes आधारित on जिससे भारी कड़ी वे possess.
Five different antibody isotypes are known in स्तनधारियों, जिससे perform अलग भूमिकाएँ, और सहायता सीधा the उचित प्रतिरक्षा जवाब for each different type of foreign object they encounter.
Though the general structure of all antibodies is very similar, a small region at the tip of the protein is अत्यधिक परिवर्तनीय, allowing लाखो of antibodies साथ थोड़ा अलग टिप structures, or प्रतिजन बाइंडिंग sites, to exist.
इस प्रदेश is ज्ञात as the hypervariable region.
Each of ये विसंगतियाँ can bind to a different antigen.
This enormous diversity of antibodies allows the immune system to recognize an बराबर चौड़ी किस्में of antigens.
The large and diverse population of antibodies is generated by random combinations of a नियत of जीन खण्ड कि encode अलग प्रतिजन बाइंडिंग साइट ( or paratopes ), followed by यादृच्छिक mutations in this area of the antibody gene, which create further diversity.
Antibody genes also re-organize in a process called class switching that changes the base of the भारी कड़ी to another, बनाना a अलग isotype of the antibody that retains the antigen specific variable region.
This allows a सिंगल एंटीबॉडी to be प्रयुक्त by अनेक अलग भाग of the immune system.
The symbol used by the zodiac कातिल to चिह्न उसके पत्राचार
the zodiac कातिल थी a सीरियल कातिल जो संचालित in Northern California in the late 1960s and early 1970s.
The कातिल 's पहचान remains unknown.
The Zodiac murdered victims in Benicia, Vallejo, Lake berryessa, और सैन फ्रांसिस्को between दिसम्बर 1968 और अक्तूबर 1969.
Four men and three women between the आयु of 16 और 29 यहूद targeted.
The killer originated the name `` zodiac '' in a श्रेणी of taunting अक्षर भेजा to the local Bay Area press.
These letters included चार cryptograms ( or ciphers ).
Of the four cryptograms sent, only one has महरूम definitively हल.
Suspects have been named by law प्रवर्तन और amateur जांचकर्ताओं, लकिन no conclusive प्रमाण has surfaced.
In April 2004, the San Francisco Police Department marked the case `` निष्क्रिय '', yet re-opened the मामला at कुछ पाइंट prior to March 2007.
The case also remains खोलें in the नगर of vallejo, as खूब as in Napa County and Solano County.
The California Department of इंसाफ रै कायम an खोलें मामला संचिका on the zodiac murders since 1969.
जेनिंग्स is a छोटी नगर in और the मोहल्ला सीट of जेफरसन Davis Parish, Louisiana, United States, near Lake Charles.
The population was 10,383 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, a छोटी मनाही इससे the 2000 tabulation.
the नगर is 68 प्रतिशत white.
Jennings is the principal city of the जेनिंग्स micropolitan सांख्यिकीय Area, which includes all of Jefferson Davis Parish.
It is also part of the larger झील Charles-Jennings Combined Statistical Area.
Nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the हेरफेर of पदार्थ on an atomic and molecular scale.
The earliest, फैली वर्णन of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological लक्ष्य of precisely manipulating atoms and molecules for fabrication of macroscale products, also now referred to as molecular nanotechnology.
A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently established by the National nanotechnology पहल, जिससे defines nanotechnology as the हेरफेर of पदार्थ साथ at तनिक एक आयाम sized from 1 to 100 nanometers.
This परिभाषा reflects the फैक्ट कि क्वांटम mechanical प्रभाव हैं महत्वपूर्ण at इस quantum-realm scale, and so the definition shifted from a particular technological goal to a research category inclusive of all types of research and technologies that deal with the special properties of matter that occur below the given size threshold.
It is therefore common to see the plural form `` nanotechnologies '' as well as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the व्यापक दायरा of शोध और अनुप्रयोग whose common trait is size.
Because of the variety of potential अनुप्रयोग ( सहित औद्योगिक और सैन्य ), सरकारें have invested अरबों of डॉलर in nanotechnology research.
through इसके नेशनल nanotechnology Initiative, the USA has invested 3.7 billion dollars.
The European Union has invested 1.2 अरब और जापानी 750 million dollars.
Nanotechnology as defined by size is naturally very broad, सहित फ़ील्ड of विज्ञान as विविध as सतह विज्ञान, सशुल्क रसायन, आणविक जीवविज्ञान, सेमीकंडक्टर physics, microfabrication, etc.
The associated research and applications are equally विविध, ranging इससे एक्सटेंशन of conventional यंत्र भौतिकी to completely नई approaches आधारित upon आणविक self-assembly, इससे विकासशील new materials with dimensions on the nanoscale to direct control of matter on the atomic scale.
Scientists फिलहाल बहस the भविष्य implications of nanotechnology.
Nanotechnology may be able to create many new materials and devices with a vast दायरा of अनुप्रयोग, ऐसे as in आयुर्विज्ञान, electronics, biomaterials and energy production.
On the other hand, nanotechnology raises many of the same issues as any new technology, including concerns about the toxicity और पर्यावरणीय प्रभाव of nanomaterials, और उनके संभावित प्रभाव on वैश्विक अर्थशास्त्र, as खूब as अटकलें about various doomsday scenarios.
These concerns have led to a बहस among वकालत समूह और सरकारें on whether special regulation of nanotechnology is warranted.
Map of the पूर्वी Bloc
The term Eastern Bloc or Communist Bloc refers to the former communist states of सेंट्रल और पूर्वी यूरोपीय, generally the सोवियत Union and the countries of the Warsaw Pact.
The terms Communist Bloc and सोवियत bloc यहूद भी प्रयुक्त to denote groupings of राज्य लकीर साथ the Soviet Union, although these terms might include states outside Central and Eastern Europe.
The New Jersey gubernatorial चुनाव of 2009 took प्लेस on नवम्बर 3, 2009.
Democratic राज्यपाल jon corzine थी कार्यशील लिये a दूसरी पद और थी होने challenged by Republican Chris Christie, Independent Christopher Daggett and nine others, in addition to several write-in candidates.
क्रिस्टी जीती the चुनाव, साथ परिचय 48.5 प्रतिशत of the vote, to 44.9 percent for Corzine and 5.8 percent for Daggett.
Christie जीती the largest हाशिया for a first term Republican since 1969.
Christie assumed office on जनवरी 19, 2010.
This was the first election to fill the newly निर्मित दफ्तर of लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल.
The candidates for governor and lieutenant राज्यपाल यहूद joined साथ as a सिंगल चुनाव, so कि मतदाता किया not have the opportunity to split the ticket.
Kim Guadagno, क्रिस्टी 's कार्यशील mate, became नई जर्सी 's first lieutenant governor following her inauguration.
Health care in the संयुक्त राज्य is provided by many distinct organizations.
Health care सुविधाएं हैं largely स्वामित्व और संचालित by निजी sector businesses.
Health insurance लिये पब्लिक सेक्टर कर्मचारी is primarily provided by the government.
60-65 % of healthcare provision and spending comes from programs such as Medicare, Medicaid, tricare, the children 's स्वास्थ्य बीमे कार्यक्रम, और the दिग्गजों स्वास्थ्य प्रशासन.
Most of the population under 65 is insured by उनके or a परिवार सदस्य 's नियोक्ता, कुछ buy health insurance on their own, and the remainder are uninsured.
Of 17 high-income countries studied by the National Institutes of Health in 2013, the संयुक्त राज्य थी at or निकट the नीचे in शिशु मृत्यु, दिल और फेफड़ों बीमारी, sexually transmitted infections, adolescent pregnancies, injuries, homicides, and rates of disability.
Together, such issues प्लेस the u.S. at the नीचे of the list for life expectancy.
On average, a u.S. पुरूष can be अपेक्षित to सजीव लगभग चार fewer years than those in the top-ranked country.
According to the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन ( जो ), the संयुक्त राज्य खर्च अधिक on स्वास्थ्य परवाह per capita ( $ 7,146 ), and more on health care as percentage of its GDP ( 15.2 % ), than any other nation in 2008.
The Commonwealth Fund ranked the United राज्य पिछला in the विशेषता of स्वास्थ्य परवाह among समान countries, and notes U.S. care costs the most.
The U.S. Census ब्यूरो reported कि 49.9 लाख निवासियों, 16.3 % of the जनसांख्यिकी, यहूद uninsured in 2010 ( up from 49.0 million residents, 16.1 % of the population, in 2009 ).
A 2004 Institute of Medicine ( IOM ) report said : `` The United States is among the few industrialized nations in the संसार कि करता नहीं गारंटी अभिगम to स्वास्थ्य परवाह लिये इसके population. ''
A 2004 OECD report said : `` With the exception of मैक्सिको, तुर्कों, और the संयुक्त राज्य, सब oecd देशों था हासिल universal or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured ) coverage of their populations by 1990. ''
A 2010 report observed that lack of स्वास्थ्य बीमे कल्याणकारी roughly 48,000 अनावश्यक मौतों प्रत्येक साल in the United States.
In 2007, 62.1 % of filers for bankruptcies claimed ऊँची चिकित्सा खर्च.
A 2013 study found कि परिचय 25 % of सब वरिष्ठ नागरिकों घोषित दिवालियापन due to medical expenses, and 43 % are forced to mortgage or sell their primary residence.
On कूच 23, 2010, the रोगी सुरक्षा और सस्ती परवाह अधिनियम ( PPACA ) became law, providing for major changes in health insurance.
In physiology, body water is the water सामग्री of the इंसान देह.
A significant भिन्न of the इंसान देह is water.
Arthur Guyton 's Textbook of Medical Physiology states कि `` the कुल राशि of जल in a man of औसत वज़न ( 70 गामा ) is approximately 40 litres, averaging 57 percent of his total body weight.
In a newborn infant, this may be as high as 75 percent of the body वज़न, लकिन it progressively decreases इससे जनम to बूढ़ा आयु, सबसे of the घटी occurring during the first 10 years of life.
Also, obesity decreases the प्रतिशत of जल in the देह, sometimes to as low as 45 percent ''.
These figures are statistical averages, so are illustrative, and like all biostatistics, will vary साथ बाते जैसे प्रकार of जनसांख्यिकी, आयु और क्रमांक of लोगों sampled, और methodology.
So there is not, and can not be, a figure that is exactly the same लिये सब लोगों, लिये इस or कोई अन्य physiological माप.
For example, Jackson 's ( 1985 ) Anatomy & Physiology for Nurses gives a फिगर of 60 % लिये the proportion of body-weight attributable to water, which approximates Guyton 's 57 %.
In diseased states where body water is affected, the कम्पार्टमेंट or compartments कि have बदला can दे clues to the प्रकृति of the problem.
Body water is regulated by हार्मोन, सहित anti-diuretic हार्मोन ( ADH ), aldosterone and atrial natriuretic peptide.
Per Netter 's Atlas of Human Physiology, देह जल is टूटा bas into the following compartments:
Intracellular द्रव ( 2/3 of देह water ).
Per Guyton, in a body containing 40 लीटर of द्रव, परिचय 25 लीटर is intracellular, जिससे amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ), close enough to the 2/3 rule of thumb.
Jackson 's ग्रन्थ राज्य 70 % of देह द्रव is intracellular.
extracellular द्रव ( 1/3 of body water ).
Per Guyton 's illustration, for a 40 litre body, about 15 लीटर is extracellular, जिससे amounts to 37.5 % Again, this is close to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited here.
प्लाज्मा ( 1/5 of extracellular fluid ).
Per guyton 's उदाहरण, of the 15 लीटर of extracellular fluid, plasma volume averages 3 litres.
This amounts to 20 %, the वही as per Netter 's Atlas.
अंतरालीय द्रव ( 4/5 of extracellular fluid )
Transcellular fluid ( a.k.a. `` तीसरा स्पेस, '' सामान्यतः ignored in calculations )
Contained inside organs, such as the gastrointestinal, cerebrospinal, peritoneal, और ocular fluids.
self-esteem is a पद प्रयुक्त in मनोविज्ञान to प्रतिबिंबित a व्यक्ति 's overall emotional evaluation of his or her own worth.
It is a judgement of oneself as खूब as an रवैया toward the self.
Self-esteem encompasses beliefs ( for उदाहरण, `` i am competent, '' `` i am worthy '' ) और भाव ऐसे as triumph, despair, pride and shame.
Smith and Mackie define it by saying `` The self-concept is कया we सोचो परिचय the स्वः ; self-esteem, is the positive or negative evaluations of the self, as in how we feel about it. ''
Self-esteem is also known as the evaluative dimension of the self that includes जज्बात of worthiness, prides और discouragement.
One 's self-esteem is भी closely संबद्ध with self-consciousness.
Self-esteem is a disposition कि a व्यक्ति रै जिससे represents their judgements of their own worthiness.
In the mid-1960s, मॉरिस rosenberg और social-learning पैरोकार पारिभाषित self-esteem as a personal worth or worthiness.
Nathaniel branden in 1969 पारिभाषित self-esteem as `` the अनुभव of होने competent to cope साथ the basic challenges of life and being worthy of happiness. ''
According to Branden, self-esteem is the sum of self-confidence ( a अहसास of निजी क्षमता ) और self-respect ( a अहसास of personal worth ).
It exists as a consequence of the अव्यक्त निर्णय कि प्रत्येक व्यक्ति रै of उनके क्षमता to face life 's challenges, to understand and solve problems, and their right to achieve happiness, and be given respect.
As a social psychological construct, self-esteem is attractive because researchers have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of relevant outcomes, ऐसे as अकादमिक उपलब्धि ( दलदल 1990 ) or कसरत बर्ताव ( hagger et al. 1998 ).
In addition, self-esteem has also been treated as an महत्वपूर्ण निष्कर्ष due to इसके बंद संबंध साथ मनोवैज्ञानिक well-being ( दलदल 1989 ).
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular dimension ( for example, `` I मानना i am a शुभ लेखक और i महसूस प्रसन्न परिचय कि '' ) or a वैश्विक extent ( लिये उदाहरण, `` I believe I am a bad person, and feel bad about myself in general '' ).
Psychologists प्रायः लिहाज़ self-esteem as an enduring व्यक्तित्व characteristic ( `` trait '' self-esteem ), though normal, short-term variations ( `` state '' self-esteem ) also exist.
Synonyms or near-synonyms of self-esteem include : self-worth, self-regard, self-respect, और self-integrity.
A Masonic Lodge, often termed a निजी आवास or constituent आवास, is the मौलिक organisational unit of Freemasonry.
Every new Lodge must be warranted or chartered by a ग्रैंड आवास, लकिन is विषय to इसके दिशा तभी in enforcing the published Constitution of the jurisdiction.
By exception the three surviving lodges that formed the world 's first known Grand Lodge in London ( today पुकारा the संयुक्त ग्रैंड आवास of इंग्लैण्ड ) have the अद्वितीय विशेषाधिकार to operate as समय immemorial i.e. बगैर ऐसे वारंट ; तभी एक अन्य आवास operates बगैर a वारंट - this is the Grand Stewards ' Lodge in London, although it is not also entitled to the `` time immemorial '' title.
A Freemason is generally हकदार to विज़िट कोई आवास, in कोई क्षेत्राधिकार ( i.e. under any Grand Lodge ) in amity with his own.
In some jurisdictions this privilege is restricted to निपुण masons ( कि is, freemasons जो have attained the Order 's third degree ).
He is first usually required to check, and certify, the नियमितता of the संबंध of the आवास - और be समर्थ to satisfy that Lodge of his regularity of membership.
freemasons एकत्रित साथ as a आवास to कार्य the three basic Degrees of Entered Apprentice, Fellowcraft and Master Mason.
Pilkington Group Limited is a multinational glass manufacturing company headquartered in St Helens, United किंगडम और a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of the japan-based एनएसजी समूह.
Prior to its acquisition by NSG in 2006 it was an independent company listed on the London Stock Exchange और लिये a समय थी a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index.
A quotation is the repetition of एक अभिव्यक्ति as भाग of another एक, विशेषकर जब the कोटेड अभिव्यक्ति is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to its original source, and it is indicated by ( punctuated with ) quotation marks.
A quotation can also refer to the दोहराया उपयोग of इकाई of कोई अन्य रूप of अभिव्यक्ति, especially parts of artistic works : elements of a painting, scenes from a movie or sections from a musical composition.
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was a common year starting on Monday ( link होगा प्रदर्शक the पूरा पंचांग ) of the gregorian पंचांग और a आम साल starting on शनिवार of the 12-day slower Julian calendar.
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering बेल in the परिवार piperaceae, cultivated लिये इसके fruit, which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning.
The fruit, ज्ञात as a peppercorn जब सूखी, is लगभग in व्यास, dark red when fully mature, and, like all drupes, contains a single seed.
peppercorns, और the मैदान pepper निकला इससे उन्हें, may be वर्णित बस as pepper, or अधिक precisely as ब्लैक pepper ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ), green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ).
Black pepper is native to दक्षिण इण्डिया, और is extensively cultivated there and elsewhere in tropical regions.
Currently Vietnam is the संसार 's largest निर्माता and exporter of pepper, producing 34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried ground pepper has महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीनता लिये दोनो इसके फ्लेवर and as a medicine.
ब्लैक pepper is the world 's most traded spice.
It is one of the most common spices added to यूरोपीय भोजन और its descendants.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine, not to be उलझन साथ the capsaicin कि देता मांसल मिर्च theirs.
It is in the modern world, प्रायः युग्म साथ salt.
Fire hydrant in charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, USA
A fire hydrant ( भी ज्ञात colloquially as a आग प्लग in the संयुक्त राज्य or as a जॉनी पंप in नई यॉर्क नगर ), is an क्रियाशील आग सुरक्षा माप, और a सोर्स of water provided in most urban, suburban and rural areas with municipal water service to enable firefighters to tap into the municipal water supply to assist in extinguishing a fire.
इमारतें निकट a hydrant may qualify लिये an बीमे छूट चूंकि अग्निशमन चाहिए be समर्थ to more rapidly extinguish a fire on the insured property.
The concept of fire plugs dates to at तनिक the 17th सदी.
This was a time when firefighters responding to a call would dig down to the wooden जल मेन्स और hastily bore a छेद to सुरक्षित जल to लड़ो फ़ायर.
The water would fill the hole creating a temporary खूब, और be transported इससे the खूब to the आग by बाल्टी brigades or, later, by hand-pumped fire engines.
The holes were then plugged with stoppers, सामान्यतः redwood, जिससे over समय आए to be ज्ञात as आग plugs.
The स्थान of the प्लग होता प्रायः be recorded or marked so that it could be reused in future fires.
This is the source of the colloquial पद आग प्लग स्टिल प्रयुक्त लिये आग hydrants आज.
After the Great Fire of London in 1666, the city installed जल मेन्स साथ छेद drilled at intervals, equipped साथ उठते, allowing an अभिगम पाइंट to the wooden fire plugs from street level.
The invention of a post- or pillar-type fire hydrant is generally credited to Frederick graff sr., मुख्य इंजीनियर of the फिलाडेल्फिया जल works around the साल 1801.
It had a combination hose/faucet outlet and was of `` wet बैरल '' डिज़ाइन साथ the वाल्व in the top.
It is said that Graff held the first patent for a fire hydrant, but this can not be सत्यापित क्युकी the पेटेंट दफ्तर in वॉशिंगटन d.C. caught on आग in 1836 destroying many patent records from that period in the process.
The President of the Republic of South Africa is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी अंतर्गत South Africa 's Constitution.
From 1961 to 1994, the head of राज्य थी पुकारा the राज्य अध्यक्ष.
The President is निर्वाचित by सदस्यों of the नेशनल सभा, the निम्नतर हाउस of पार्लियामेंट, और is प्रायः the नेता of the largest party, which has been the African National Congress since the first non-racial elections were held on 27 April 1994.
The भूमिका थी originally संस्थापित to be पृथक इससे the अभी defunct role of prime minister, but the two roles were merged in the 1983 constitution which specified a four-year term of office.
The 1993 and later constitutions हद the अध्यक्ष 's समय in दफ्तर to two five-year terms.
The first President to be निर्वाचित अंतर्गत the नई संविधान थी नेल्सन मंडेला, and the incumbent president is Jacob Zuma.
Under the interim Constitution ( valid from 1994 to 1996 ), there was a सरकारी of नेशनल एकता, in जिससे an mp इससे the largest विपक्ष party was entitled to a position as Deputy President.
Along with Thabo Mbeki, the last State President, F.W. De Klerk also served as Deputy President, in his क्षमता as the नेता of the नेशनल पार्टी जिससे थी the second-largest पार्टी in the नई Parliament.
But De Klerk बाद resigned and went into opposition with his party.
A voluntary coalition government continues to exist under the new संविधान ( अपनाया in 1996 ), हालांकि वहीँ have महरूम no नियुक्ति of विपक्ष राजनेता to the post of deputy president.
खास शिक्षा or खास needs शिक्षा is the शिक्षा of students with special needs in a way that addresses the students ' individual differences and needs.
Ideally, this process involves the individually planned and systematically monitored arrangement of teaching procedures, adapted equipment and materials, accessible settings, and other interventions designed to help learners with खास needs achieve a उच्चतर स्तर of निजी self-sufficiency और कामयाबी in स्कूल और जातियाँ than would be available if the student were only given access to a typical classroom education.
Common special needs include challenges साथ सीखना, संचार चुनौतियां, emotional और behavioral विकार, physical disabilities, and developmental disorders.
Students with these kinds of special needs are likely to benefit इससे अतिरिक्त शैक्षणिक सेवाएं ऐसे as अलग approaches to teaching, use of technology, a specifically adapted teaching area, or resource room.
Intellectual giftedness is a difference in learning and can also benefit from specialized teaching techniques or different educational programs, but the term `` special शिक्षा '' is generally प्रयुक्त to specifically indicate निर्देश of विद्यार्थी जिनकी खास needs reduce उनके क्षमता to सीख independently or in an ordinary कक्षा, और gifted शिक्षा is handled separately.
In most developed countries, educators हैं modifying शिक्षण विधि और environments so कि the अधिकतम क्रमांक of students are served in general education environments.
Special education in developed देशों is प्रायः regarded कम as a `` प्लेस '' and more as `` a range of services, available in every school. ''
Integration can reduce social stigmas and improve अकादमिक उपलब्धि लिये अनेक विद्यार्थी.
The विपरीत of खास शिक्षा is general education.
General education is the मानक curriculum प्रस्तुत साथ मानक शिक्षण विधि और without additional supports.
George Soros ( or ; ; ; born अगस्त 12, 1930, as schwartz györgy ) is a Hungarian-American business magnate, investor, and philanthropist.
He is the अध्यक्ष of सोरोस निधि Management.
Soros supports progressive-liberal causes.
He is known as `` The Man जो broke the बैंको of इंग्लैण्ड `` क्युकी of उसके in निवेश profits during the 1992 Black Wednesday UK currency crisis.
Between 1979 and 2011, Soros gave away over $ 8 billion to इंसान अधिकारों, पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य, और शिक्षा कल्याणकारी.
He played a significant भूमिका in the शांतिपूर्ण परिवर्तन इससे साम्यवादी to पूंजीवाद in हंगेरियाई ( 1984–89 ) and provided one of Europe 's largest higher education endowments to Central European University in Budapest.
सोरोस is भी the अध्यक्ष of the Open Society Institute.
An actor portraying सिकंदर ग्राहम घंटी बोलना into an early model telephone.
The invention of the telephone is the culmination of कार्य किया by अनेक individuals, the इतिहास of जिससे involves a संग्रहण of दावा और counterclaims.
The development of the modern electrical telephone involved an array of lawsuits संस्थापित upon the पेटेंट दावा of अनेक individuals and numerous companies.
This article covers the early years from 1844 to 1898, इससे धारणा of the विचार of an इलेक्ट्रिक voice-transmission यंत्र, to विफल कोशिशें to उपयोग `` make-and-break '' वर्तमान, to कामयाब प्रयोग साथ इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक telephones by Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Watson, and finally to commercially successful telephones in the late 19th century.
A Master of Fine Arts ( MFA, M.F.A. ) is a ग्रैजुएट उपाधि typically requiring 2–3 सालो of postgraduate पढ़ाई परे the bachelor 's degree ( BFA ), although the term of study will vary by country or by university.
The MFA is a रचनात्मक उपाधि प्रायः awarded as a टर्मिनल उपाधि in विज़ुअल कला, रचनात्मक लिखने, filmmaking, dance, or theatre and other performing arts.
Coursework is primarily of an लागू or performing प्रकृति साथ the कार्यक्रम प्रायः culminating in a major work or performance.
Master of ठीक कला कार्यक्रम have generally जरूरी a स्नातक 's उपाधि prior to प्रवेश, लकिन अनेक do नहीं require that the undergraduate major be the same as the MFA field of study.
The most important admissions requirement रै प्रायः महरूम a नमूना पोर्टफोलियो or a प्रदर्शन ऑडिशन.
The Master of Fine Arts differs from the Master of Arts in that the MFA, while an academic program, centers around practice in the particular फ़ील्ड, whereas कार्यक्रम अग्रणी to the ma प्रायः बीच on the scholarly, अकादमिक, or नाजुक study of the field.
Additionally, in the United States, an MFA is recognized as a terminal degree for practitioners of Visual Art, Design, Dance, Theatre, Film/Video, New Media, and Creative Writing - meaning कि it is माना to be the उच्चतम उपाधि in इसके फ़ील्ड, और is प्रयुक्त as a न्यूनतम योग्यता to be समर्थ to लागू to become a full-time प्राध्यापक शिक्षण at the विश्वविद्यालयों level in these disciplines.
There are exceptions to this standard in the Arts, notably in the case of music प्रदर्शन, जहाँ the mfa is नहीं देखी as a टर्मिनल उपाधि in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the more standardized DMA degree.
It is also critical to note that in the interest of extending the connection between creative production और जारी अकादमिक शोध, कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों have स्थापित practice-based Ph.D programs in fields such as creative writing, visual arts, new media, design and theater.
While this has had an effect in Creative Writing, and to a lesser extent in design and new media, the influx of graduates इससे practice-based phd कार्यक्रम रै नहीं appreciably बदला the मानक लिये the MFA as the terminal degree in most Arts disciplines yet.
This is an ongoing contentious topic, और is the बारंबार विषय of अकादमिक panels, विशेषकर at the annual College Art Association conference.
The CAA 2008 guidelines regarding the MFA strongly re-affirms कि the phd is नहीं जरूरी as a टर्मिनल degree in the visual arts.
The atomic bombings of the cities of Hiroshima और नागासाकी in जापानी यहूद conducted by the United States during the final stages of World War II in 1945.
The two events are the only use of नाभिकीय हथियार in युद्ध to date.
following a firebombing अभियान कि नष्ट अनेक जापानी शहरों, the Allies prepared for a costly invasion of Japan.
The war in यूरोपीय ended जब नाजी जर्मनी हस्ताक्षरित इसके यंत्र of आत्मसमर्पण on 8 May, but the Pacific War continued.
Together with the United Kingdom and the गणतंत्र of चीन, the संयुक्त राज्य पुकारा लिये a आत्मसमर्पण of जापानी in the पॉट्सडैम घोषणा on 26 July 1945, threatening Japan with `` prompt and utter destruction ''.
The Japanese government उपेक्षित इस ultimatum, और the United States deployed two nuclear weapons developed by the Manhattan Project.
American airmen dropped छोटी लड़के on the नगर of हिरोशिमा on 6 अगस्त 1945, followed by Fat Man over Nagasaki on 9 August.
Within the first two to four months of the bombings, the acute effects killed 90,000–166,000 people in हिरोशिमा और 60,000–80,000 in नागासाकी, साथ roughly हाफ of the मौतों in प्रत्येक नगर occurring on the पहला day.
The Hiroshima prefecture health department estimated that, of the people who died on the day of the explosion, 60 % died इससे फ्लैश or ज्वाला burns, 30 % इससे गिरना मलबा और 10 % इससे अन्य कल्याणकारी.
During the following months, large numbers died from the effect of burns, विकिरण बीमारी, और अन्य चोटों, compounded by illness.
In a US अनुमान of the कुल तात्कालिक और छोटी पद कारण of मौत, 15–20 % died from radiation sickness, 20–30 % from burns, and 50–60 % from other injuries, compounded by illness.
In both cities, most of the मुर्दे यहूद नागरिकों, हालांकि हिरोशिमा had a sizeable garrison.
On 15 August, six days after the bombing of नागासाकी, जापानी घोषित इसके आत्मसमर्पण to the allies, हस्ताक्षर the यंत्र of Surrender on 2 September, officially ending World War II.
The bombings led, in part, to post-war जापानी 's adopting तीन non-nuclear सिद्धान्त, forbidding the nation from nuclear armament.
The role of the bombings in जापानी 's आत्मसमर्पण और उनके नैतिक औचित्य are still debated.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi ( ; 2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948 ), commonly known as Mahatma Gandhi, थी the preeminent नेता of भारतीय nationalism in British-ruled India.
Employing non-violent civil disobedience, Gandhi led India to स्वतंत्रता और प्रेरित आंदोलनों लिये non-violence, सिविल अधिकारों और स्वतंत्रता आरपार the संसार.
The son of a वरिष्ठ सरकारी आधिकारिक, गांधी थी born and raised in a Hindu Bania community in coastal Gujarat, and trained in law in London.
गांधी became प्रसिद्ध by लड़ लिये the सिविल अधिकारों of Muslim and Hindu Indians in South Africa, using new techniques of non-violent civil disobedience that he developed.
Returning to India in 1915, he set परिचय organising peasants to विरोध excessive land-taxes.
A lifelong प्रतिद्वन्दी of `` सांप्रदायिकता `` ( i.e. basing politics on religion ) he reached out widely to all religious groups.
He became a leader of Muslims protesting the घटती औकात of the खिलाफत.
Assuming leadership of the भारतीय नेशनल Congress in 1921, Gandhi led nationwide campaigns for easing poverty, expanding women 's rights, building religious and ethnic amity, ending untouchability, increasing economic self-reliance, and above all for achieving Swaraj —the independence of India from British domination.
Gandhi led Indians in protesting the national salt tax with the Dandi Salt March in 1930, और बाद in demanding the अंग्रेजों to तत्काल छोड़ो इण्डिया in 1942, दौरान World War II.
he थी imprisoned लिये कि और लिये numerous other political offenses over the years.
Gandhi sought to practice non-violence और सच्चाई in सब परिस्थितियों, और advocated that others do the same.
he देखी the गांवों as the कोर of the सच्चा इण्डिया और प्रचारित self-sufficiency ; he किया नहीं support the industrialization programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru.
He lived modestly in a self-sufficient residential community and wore the traditional Indian dhoti and shawl, woven with yarn he had hand spun on a charkha.
His chief political enemy in Britain was विंस्टन चर्चिल, जो ridiculed उसे as a `` half-naked fakir. ''
He was a dedicated vegetarian, and undertook long fasts as अर्थात् of दोनो self-purification और राजनैतिक mobilization.
In his last year, unhappy at the partition of India, Gandhi worked to stop the carnage between Muslims, Hindus and सिखों कि raged in the किनारा क्षेत्रफल between इण्डिया और पाकिस्तानी.
He was assassinated on 30 January 1948 by nathuram गोडसे जो विचार गांधी थी too सहानुभूतिपूर्ण to इण्डिया 's Muslims.
30 January is observed as शहीदो ' Day in India.
The honorific महात्मा ( `` ग्रेट आत्मा '' ) थी लागू to him by 1914.
In India he थी भी पुकारा bapu ( `` पिता '' ).
He is known in India as the Father of the Nation ; his birthday, 2 October, is commemorated there as गांधी jayanti, a नेशनल अवकाश, और world-wide as the International Day of Non-Violence.
Gandhi 's philosophy was not सैद्धांतिक लकिन एक of व्यावहारिकतावाद, कि is, practicing his principles in the moment.
Asked to give a message to the people, he होता respond, `` my जीवन is my संदेश. ''
Joan क्रॉफर्ड ( कूच 23, ca. 1904 – may 10, 1977 ), born lucille fay lesueur, was an American actress in film, television and theatre.
Starting as a dancer in traveling theatrical companies before debuting on Broadway, क्रॉफर्ड थी हस्ताक्षरित to a गति चित्र अनुबंध by metro-goldwyn-mayer in 1925.
Initially frustrated by the size and quality of her parts, Crawford began a campaign of self-publicity और became nationally ज्ञात as a flapper by the end of the 1920s.
In the 1930s, Crawford 's fame rivaled, और बाद outlasted, mgm सहयोगियों norma शियर्र और Greta Garbo.
Crawford often played मेहनती यंग महिलाओं जो ढूँढें रोमांस and financial success.
These `` rags-to-riches '' कहानियां यहूद खूब प्राप्त by Depression -era audiences and were popular with women.
Crawford became one of Hollywood 's most prominent movie stars and one of the उच्चतम सशुल्क महिलाओं in the संयुक्त राज्य, लकिन उसके films began खोने धन और by the end of the 1930s she was labeled `` box office poison ''.
After an absence of nearly two सालो इससे the स्क्रीन, क्रॉफर्ड मंचन a वापसी by अभिनीत in मिल्ड्रेड पियर्स ( 1945 ), लिये जिससे she won the Academy Award for Best Actress.
In 1955, she became involved with the pepsi-cola कम्पनी through उसके विवाह to कम्पनी Chairman Alfred Steele.
After his death in 1959, Crawford was elected to भरण उसके रिक्ति on the फलक of निर्देशकों but was forcibly retired in 1973.
She continued acting in film and television regularly through the 1960s, जब उसके प्रदर्शन became कम ; बाद the रिलीज of the अंग्रेजों हॉरर फिल्मी Trog in 1970, Crawford retired from the screen.
Following a public appearance in 1974, after which unflattering छायाचित्र यहूद प्रकाशित, क्रॉफर्ड withdrew इससे पब्लिक life and became increasingly reclusive until her death in 1977.
Crawford शादीशुदा चार टाइम्स.
Her first तीन विवाह ended in तलाक ; the पिछला ended साथ the death of husband Alfred Steele.
She adopted five children, one of whom थी reclaimed by उसके जनम माँ.
क्रॉफर्ड 's संबंध साथ her two older children, Christina and Christopher, were acrimonious.
Crawford disinherited the two and, after Crawford 's death, Christina लिखा a `` tell-all '' संस्मरण, mommie dearest, in जिससे वो alleged a lifelong pattern of physical and emotional abuse perpetrated by Crawford.
She थी voted the दसवाँ महानतम मादा स्टार in the history of American cinema by the American Film Institute.
1910 बुइक tonneau without tonneau cover
1903 Ford Model A rear-door tonneau
1903 lanchester rear-door Tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or ) describes a मुश्किल or नरम कवर प्रयुक्त to protect unoccupied यात्री सीटे in a convertible or roadster, or the cargo bed in a pickup truck.
Hard tonneau covers open by a hinging or folding यांत्रिकी जबकि नरम कवर खोलें by रोलिंग up.
The tonneau कवर is प्रयुक्त to छिपाते cargo.
When the cover is pulled out, it keeps items out of the सूर्य और provides अतिरिक्त सुरक्षा by keeping निजी वस्तुएं आउट of sight, as well as shielding the driver from view.
Twitter is an online सोशल नेटवर्किंग सेवा और microblogging सेवा कि enables इसके उपयोक्ता to भेजें और पढ़ा text-based messages of up to 140 characters, known as `` tweets ''.
Twitter was created in March 2006 by Jack dorsey और by जुलाई, the सोशल नेटवर्किंग साईट थी launched.
the सेवा rapidly gained विश्वव्यापी लोकप्रियता, साथ over 500 million registered users as of 2012, generating over 340 million tweets daily and handling over 1.6 billion search queries per day.
Since its launch, Twitter has become one of the ten most visited वेबसाइटों on the अंतरजाल, and has been described as `` the SMS of the Internet. ''
Unregistered users can read tweets, while registered users can post tweets through the जालस्थल इंटरफ़ेस, sms, or a दायरा of ऐप्स लिये मोबाईल devices.
Twitter Inc. is based in San Francisco, with अतिरिक्त सर्वर और कार्यालयों in नई यॉर्क नगर, बोस्टन, and San Antonio.
The Hangover is a 2009 American कॉमेडी फिल्मी, co-produced और निर्देशित by टॉड phillips और लिखा by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore.
It is the first film of The hangover मताधिकार.the फिल्मी सितारों ब्राडली कूपर, ed helms, zach galifianakis, हीथर Graham, Justin Bartha, and Jeffrey Tambor.
The Hangover tells the story of फिल wenneck, stu दाम और एलन गार्नर, जो सफर to लास वेगास for a bachelor party to celebrate their friend Doug Billings ' impending marriage.
However, Phil, Stu and Alan have no memory of the पिछला रात्रि 's कार्यक्रम और जरूर ढूँढें डग पहले the wedding can take place.
Lucas and Moore wrote the script after executive producer Chris Bender 's friend disappeared और था a विशाल विधेयक बाद होने भेजा to a स्ट्रिप club.
After Lucas and Moore sold it to the studio for $ 2 लाख, फिलिप्स और जेरेमी garelick rewrote the स्क्रिप्ट to include a tiger as well as a subplot involving a baby and a police cruiser, and also including boxer Mike Tyson.
Filming took place in Nevada for 15 days, and दौरान फिल्मांकन, the तीन प्रमुख अभिनेताओं ( कूपर, helms और galifianakis ) formed a दोस्ती.
The hangover थी released on जून 5, 2009, बनने a critical and commercial success.
It became the tenth-highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2009, साथ a worldwide gross of over US $ 467 million.
आलोचकों praised the फिल्मी 's comedic approach but criticized it for its vulgarity.
The film won the Golden Globe पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन गति चित्र – musical or कॉमेडी, और received multiple other accolades.
It is the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009 in the संसार, as खूब as the दूसरी highest-grossing r-rated कॉमेडी कभी in the संयुक्त राज्य, surpassing a रिकार्ड previously आयोजित by Beverly Hills Cop for almost 25 years and later being surpassed by Ted in 2012.
Out of all R-rated films, it is the third highest-grossing कभी in the u.S., पीछे तभी the जुनून of the Christ and The Matrix Reloaded.
A sequel, The Hangover Part II, थी released in 2011, और a तीसरा और फाइनल film, The Hangover Part III, is set for release in 2013.
Events involving meiosis, प्रर्दशित chromosomal crossover
Meiosis ( ) is a special type of कोशिका प्रभाग जरुरी लिये यौन जनन in eukaryotes.
the कोशिकाएं उत्पादित by meiosis are gametes or spores.
In many organisms, including all animals and land plants ( but not some other groups such as fungi ), गैमीट हैं पुकारा शुक्राणु और अंडा कोशिकाएं.
Whilst the प्रक्रम of meiosis bears a क्रमांक of similarities with the 'life-cycle ' cell division process of mitosis, it differs in two important respects:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination जिससे shuffles the जीनों producing a अलग जेनेटिक संयोजन in प्रत्येक gamete, compared with the co-existence of each of the two separate pairs of each chromosome ( one received from each parent ) in each cell which results from mitosis.
the निष्कर्ष of meiosis is potentially चार ( genetically अद्वितीय ) haploid cells, compared with the two ( genetically identical ) diploid cells produced from mitosis.
Meiosis begins with one diploid कोशिका containing दो नक़ल of प्रत्येक chromosome —one from the organism 's mother and one from its father.
The कोशिका divides twice, potentially producing up to चार अगुणित cells containing one copy of each chromosome.
( `` Potentially '' because in some cases, such as the गठन of oocytes in स्तनधारियों, तभी एक of the संभावित चार अगुणित कोशिकाएं survives. )
In animals the haploid cell resulting इससे meiosis is a पुरूष or मादा gamete.
Each of the resulting गुणसूत्रों in the gamete कोशिकाएं is a अद्वितीय मिश्रण of मातृ और paternal DNA, resulting in offspring that are genetically distinct from either parent.
This देता वृद्धि to जेनेटिक विविधता in sexually reproducing populations.
This genetic diversity can provide the variation of physical and behavioural attributes ( phenotypes ) upon जिससे प्राकृतिक चयन can अधिनियम, लकिन, as वर्णित नीचे in खण्ड 6, उत्पत्ति और फलन of meiosis, the जेनेटिक विविधता may be largely a by-product of the समजात recombination that is primarily employed for its DNA repair function during meiosis.
It is also noteworthy that during meiosis, specific genes are more highly transcribed, and these are called the meiome, the पद प्रयुक्त in कार्यात्मक जीनोमिक्स लिये the meiotic transcriptome.
Meiosis is a key feature for all sexually reproducing eukaryotes in जिससे समजात chromosome pairing, अन्तर्ग्रथन और recombination occur.
In addition to strong meiotic stage-specific अभिव्यक्ति of mrna ( the meiome ), however, वहीँ हैं भी pervasive translational नियंत्रण ( e.g. चयनात्मक उपयोग of preformed mRNA ), regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein expression of genes during meiosis.
Thus, both the meiome और translational नियंत्रण determine the व्यापक restructuring of meiotic cells needed to carry out meiosis.
Prior to the meiosis process the cell 's chromosomes are duplicated by a round of DNA replication, creating from the maternal and पैतृक संस्करण of प्रत्येक chromosome ( homologs ) दो सटीक नक़ल, सिस्टर chromatids, संलग्न at the centromere region.
In the beginning of meiosis the maternal and पैतृक homologs जोड़ी to प्रत्येक अन्य.
Then they typically exchange parts by homologous recombination अग्रणी to crossovers of डीएनए between the मातृ और पैतृक संस्करण of the chromosome.
Spindle fibers bind to the centromeres of प्रत्येक जोड़ी of homologs और arrange the pairs at the spindle equator.
तब the मछली खींचो the recombined homologs to opposite poles of the cell.
As the chromosomes move away from the center the cell divides into दो बेटी कोशिकाएं, प्रत्येक containing a अगुणित क्रमांक of chromosomes composed of two chromatids.
After the recombined maternal और पैतृक homologs have अलग into the two daughter cells, a second round of cell division occurs.
There meiosis ends as the two सिस्टर chromatids बनाना up प्रत्येक homolog हैं अलग और मूव into one of the four resulting gamete cells.
Upon fertilization, लिये उदाहरण जब a शुक्राणु enters an अंडा कोशिका, दो gamete cells produced by meiosis fuse.
The gamete from the mother and the gamete from the father each contribute one half of the नियत of गुणसूत्रों कि मेक up the नई औलाद 's genome.
Meiosis uses अनेक of the वही mechanisms as समसूत्रण, a प्रकार of कोशिका प्रभाग प्रयुक्त by eukaryotes जैसे पौधे and animals to split one cell into two identical daughter cells.
In all plants and in many protists meiosis परिणाम in the गठन of बीजाणुओं : अगुणित cells that can divide vegetatively without undergoing fertilization.
Boxing ( pugilism, पुरस्कार लड़, the मीठी विज्ञान or in यूनानी pygmachia ) is a martial आर्ट और कॉम्बैट खेल in जिससे दो लोगों engage in a contest of strength, speed, reflexes, endurance and will by throwing punches with gloved hands.
Amateur मुक्केबाज़ी is an ओलम्पिक और राष्ट्रमंडल खेल और is a आम fixture in सबसे of the प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय games - it also has its own World Championships.
Boxing is supervised by a referee over a series of one- to three-minute intervals पुकारा rounds.
The result is decided when an opponent is deemed incapable to continue by a referee, is disqualified लिये तोड़कर a नियम, resigns by फेंकना in a तौलिया, or is सुनाया the winner or loser based on the judges ' scorecards at the end of the contest.
The birth hour of boxing as a sport may be its acceptance by the ancient Greeks as an ओलम्पिक खेल as जल्दी as 688 BC.
Boxing evolved from 16th- and 18th-century prizefights, largely in Great Britain, to the forerunner of modern boxing in the mid-19th सदी, again initially in ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और बाद in the United States.
In 2004, ESPN ranked मुक्केबाज़ी as the सबसे मुश्किल sport in the world.
Agreement or concord happens जब a शब्द परिवर्तन रूप depending on the other words to which it relates.
It is an instance of inflection, and usually involves making the मान of कुछ व्याकरणिक श्रेणी ( ऐसे as लिंग or व्यक्ति ) `` सहमत '' between different words or parts of the sentence.
For example, in Standard English, one may say I am or he is, लकिन नहीं `` i is '' or `` he am ''.
This is because the grammar of the language requires कि the क्रिया और इसके विषय सहमत in person.
The pronouns I और he हैं पहला और तीसरा व्यक्ति क्रमशः, as are the verb forms am and is.
The verb form must be चयनित so कि it रै the same person as the subject.
The agreement based on overt grammatical categories as above is formal अनुबंध, in कंट्रास्ट to notional अनुबंध, जिससे is आधारित on अर्थ.
For instance, the phrase The संयुक्त राज्य is treated as एकवचन लिये उद्देश्य of अनुबंध, भी though it is formally plural.
This is a list of स्थान नीचे औसत समुद्र स्तर that are on land.
Places in tunnels, mines, तहखानों, खोदा छेद ( भी साथ खोलें आसमान ), अंतर्गत जल, under ice, or existing temporarily as a result of ebbing of sea tide etc. are not included.
All आंकड़े हैं in मीटर below sea level:
Debbie Macomber ( born अक्तूबर 22, 1948 in yakima, वॉशिंगटन ) is a best-selling American author of over 150 romance novels and contemporary women 's fiction.
Over 140 million copies of her books हैं in छपाई throughout the संसार, and four have become made-for-TV-movies.
Macomber was the inaugural winner of the fan-voted quill पुरस्कार लिये रोमांस in 2005 और रै महरूम awarded दोनो a रोमांस लेखक of अमेरिका रीता और a आजीवन achievement award by the Romance Writers of America.
Catonsville is a census-designated प्लेस ( cdp ) in बाल्टीमोर काउंटी, मेरीलैंड, United States.
The population was 41,567 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
The community झूठ to the वेस्ट of बाल्टीमोर साथ the city 's border.
catonsville is the घर of the विश्वविद्यालयों of मेरीलैंड, Baltimore County ( UMBC ), a public research university with over 12,000 students.
A lawyer, according to Black 's Law Dictionary, is `` a व्यक्ति सीखे in the विधि ; as an attorney, counsel or solicitor ; a person who is practicing law. ''
Law is the system of rules of conduct established by the sovereign सरकारी of a समाज to सही wrongs, maintain the स्थिरता of राजनैतिक और सोशल प्राधिकार, और उद्धार इंसाफ.
Working as a lawyer involves the व्यावहारिक अनुप्रयोग of अमूर्त विधिक theories और ज्ञान to solve विशिष्ट individualized समस्याएं, or to advance the interests of those who retain ( i.e., hire ) lawyers to perform legal services.
The role of the lawyer varies significantly across legal jurisdictions, और so it can be treated यहाँ in तभी the सबसे general terms.
Vector Marketing is the domestic sales भुजा of cutco निगम, an olean, नई यॉर्क आधारित cutlery manufacturer.
The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( FMLA ) is a United States संघीय विधि requiring covered नियोक्ता to provide कर्मचारी job-protected और unpaid छोड़ लिये योग्य medical and family reasons.
Qualified medical and family कारण शामिल : निजी or परिवार बीमारी, family military leave, pregnancy, adoption, or the foster care placement of a child.
The FMLA is administered by the मजदूरी और घंटा प्रभाग of the संयुक्त States Department of Labor.
The bill was a major part of President Bill क्लिंटन 's कार्यसूची in उसके पहला term.
President Clinton signed the bill into law on February 5, 1993 ( ; 29 U.S.C. sec. 2601 ; 29 cfr 825 ) और it took प्रभाव on अगस्त 5, 1993, six months later.
The FMLA थी intended `` to संतुलन the मांगे of the workplace with the needs of families. ''
The Act allows eligible employees to take up to 12 work weeks of unpaid छोड़ दौरान कोई 12-month काल to attend to the गंभीर स्वास्थ्य कंडीशन of the कर्मचारी, जनक, जीवनसाथी or चाइल्ड, or लिये गर्भावस्था or care of a newborn child, or for adoption or foster care of a child.
In order to be eligible for FMLA leave, an employee must have been at the business at तनिक 12 महीने, और worked at तनिक 1,250 घंटों over the पास्ट 12 महीने, और कार्य at a स्थान जहाँ the company employs 50 or more employees within 75 miles.
The FMLA covers both public- and private-sector employees, लकिन निश्चित श्रेणी of कर्मचारी हैं excluded, सहित निर्वाचित officials और उनके निजी staff members.
The Vietnam War ( ) थी a ठंडा युद्ध -era सैन्य विरोध कि occurred in वियतनाम, लाओस, और कंबोडिया इससे 1 नवम्बर 1955 to the fall of Saigon on 30 April 1975.
This war followed the पहला इंडोचायना युद्ध और थी लड़ा between उत्तर वियतनाम, supported by its communist allies, and the government of South Vietnam, supported by the United States and other anti-communist countries.
The Viet Cong ( also known as the National Liberation Front, or NLF ), a हलके हथियारबंद दक्षिण वियतनामी कम्युनिस्ट आम सामने निर्देशित by the उत्तर, largely लड़ा a छापामार युद्ध विरूद्ध anti-communist शक्तियां in the region.
The Vietnam People 's Army ( North Vietnamese Army ) सगाई in a अधिक conventional युद्ध, at times committing large units into battle.
U.S. and South Vietnamese forces relied on air superiority and overwhelming firepower to conduct ढूंढें और नष्ट परिचालन, involving मैदान शक्तियां, तोपखाने, and airstrikes.
The U.S. government viewed involvement in the war as a way to prevent a कम्युनिस्ट कब्ज़ा of दक्षिण वियतनाम as भाग of उनके wider रणनीति of containment.
The North Vietnamese government और viet cong यहूद लड़ to reunify वियतनाम under communist rule.
They viewed the conflict as a औपनिवेशिक युद्ध, लड़ा initially विरूद्ध फ़्रांस, समर्थित by the u.S., और बाद विरूद्ध दक्षिण वियतनाम, which it regarded as a U.S. puppet state.
American military advisors arrived in कया थी तब फ्रेंच इंडोचायना शुरूआत in 1950.
U.S. भागीदारी escalated in the जल्दी 1960s, साथ troop स्तर tripling in 1961 and tripling again in 1962.
U.S. combat units were तैनात शुरूआत in 1965.
Operations spanned अंतरराष्ट्रीय सीमायें, साथ लाओस and Cambodia heavily bombed.
अमरीकी भागीदारी in the युद्ध peaked in 1968, at the time of the Tet Offensive.
After this, U.S. ground शक्तियां यहूद धीरे withdrawn as भाग of a policy known as Vietnamization.
Despite the Paris Peace Accords, signed by सब पार्टियों in जनवरी 1973, fighting continued.
U.S. military involvement ended on 15 August 1973 as a परिणाम of the case–church amendment passed by the u.S. कॉंग्रेस.
the कैप्चर of साइगॉन by the वियतनाम लोगों 's फौज in अप्रैल 1975 marked the end of the war, and North and South Vietnam were reunified the following year.
The war exacted a विशाल इंसान लागत in शर्तें of fatalities ( see Vietnam War casualties ).
Estimates of the number of वियतनामी सैनिको और नागरिकों मारे vary इससे 800,000 to 3.1 million.
Some 200,000–300,000 cambodians, 20,000–200,000 laotians, और 58,220 U.S. service members also died in the conflict.
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of अलास्का photographed इससे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस स्टेशन, May 2006.
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km during the climactic eruption at माउंट pinatubo, फिलीपीन in 1991.
A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a ग्रह 's सतह or क्रस्ट, जिससे allows hot मैग्मा, volcanic राख और गैसों to escape from the magma chamber below the surface.
ज्वालामुखी हैं generally मिला जहाँ tectonic plates are diverging or converging.
A mid-oceanic लकीरें, लिये उदाहरण the mid-atlantic लकीरें, रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अपसारी tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together.
By contrast, volcanoes are usually not निर्मित जहाँ दो tectonic प्लेटों स्लाइड पास्ट एक another.
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching और thinning of the धरती 's क्रस्ट in the इंटीरियर्स of प्लेटों, e.g., in the ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी दरार, the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America.
This प्रकार of volcanism जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ of `` Plate hypothesis '' volcanism.
Volcanism away from plate सीमाएँ रै भी महरूम समझाया as mantle plumes.
These so-called `` hotspots ``, for example Hawaii, are postulated to उठता इससे upwelling diapirs साथ मैग्मा इससे the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the Earth.
Erupting volcanoes can pose अनेक जोखिमों, नहीं तभी in the तात्कालिक vicinity of the eruption.
Volcanic ash can be a threat to वायुयान, in particular those साथ जेट इंजन जहाँ राख अणु can be melted by the high operating temperature.
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and कूल the धरती 's निम्नतर माहौल or क्षोभमण्डल ; however, वे भी अवशोषित heat radiated up from the Earth, thereby warming the stratosphere.
historically, so-called volcanic सर्दियों have caused catastrophic famines.
A गहन pothole on नई यॉर्क नगर 's Second Avenue
A pothole ( sometimes पुकारा a केतली और ज्ञात in भाग of the पश्चिमी संयुक्त राज्य as a chuckhole ) is a प्रकार of disruption in the surface of a roadway where a portion of the road material has broken away, leaving a hole.
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC, also known as hypernephroma ) is a kidney cancer that originates in the lining of the proximal convoluted tubule, the बहुत छोटी tubes in the गुर्दा कि हस्तांतरण gf ( glomerular filtrate ) इससे the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron.
RCC is the most common type of kidney cancer in वयस्कों, जिम्मेदार लिये लगभग 80 % of cases.
it is भी ज्ञात to be the सबसे lethal of all the genitourinary tumors.
Initial treatment is most commonly a radical or आंशिक nephrectomy और remains the mainstay of curative treatment.
Where the tumor is confined to the renal parenchyma, the 5-year अस्तित्व रेट is 60-70 %, लकिन इस is lowered considerably जहाँ metastases have स्प्रेड.
It is relatively resistant to radiation चिकित्सा और कीमोथेरेपी, हालांकि कुछ मामले respond to immunotherapy.
Targeted cancer therapies such as sunitinib, temsirolimus, bevacizumab, interferon-alpha, और sorafenib have improved the आउटलुक लिये RCC.
estée lauder कंपनियाँ, inc. is a निर्माता और marketer of prestige skincare, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.
The company has its headquarters in midtown मैनहटन, नई यॉर्क City.
The peritoneum ( ) is the serous झिल्ली कि फ़ॉर्म the अस्तर of the abdominal गुहा or the coelom —it कवर सबसे of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes and some invertebrates ( annelids, for instance ).
It is composed of a layer of mesothelium समर्थित by a पतला परत of connective tissue.
The peritoneum दोनो supports the abdominal अंगों और serves as a conduit लिये their blood and lymph vessels and nerves.
The abdominal cavity ( the space bounded by the vertebrae, abdominal muscles, diaphragm and pelvic floor ) चाहिए नहीं be उलझन साथ the intraperitoneal space ( located within the abdominal cavity, but wrapped in peritoneum ).
The structures within the intraperitoneal space are called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the stomach ), the structures in the abdominal cavity that are located behind the intraperitoneal space are called `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g. the गुर्दे ), और those structures नीचे the intraperitoneal स्पेस हैं पुकारा `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g. the bladder ).
आधुनिक 2.5 '' ssd प्रयुक्त in consumer laptops and desktop computers.
DDR sdram आधारित SSD.
अधिकतम और.
PCI संलग्न io त्वरक SSD
PCI-E, DRAM, and नन्द आधारित SSD.
It uses an बाह्य शक्ति सप्लाई to मेक the DRAM non-volatile.
A solid-state drive ( SSD ) ( also known as a solid-state disk or electronic disk, though it contains no वास्तविक `` डिस्क '' of कोई दयालु ) is a आंकड़ा भंडार यंत्र using एकीकृत सर्किट सभाओं as मेमोरी to स्टोर आंकड़ा persistently.
ssd प्रौद्योगिकी उपयोग इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अंतरफलक संगत with traditional block input/output ( I/O ) hard disk drives.
SSDs have no moving mechanical components, which distinguish them from परंपरागत electromechanical चुम्बकीय डिस्क ऐसे as मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव ( hdds ) or floppy disks, which contain spinning disks and movable read/write heads.
Compared with electromechanical डिस्क, ssds हैं typically कम susceptible to शारीरिक शॉक, much quieter, have lower access time, and less latency.
However, जबकि the दाम of ssds रै जारी to मनाही in 2012, SSDs are still about 7 to 8 times more expensive per unit of storage than HDDs.
Many SSDs use I/O interfaces विकसित लिये मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव, यूँ permitting simple replacement in common applications.
, most SSDs use NAND-based फ्लैश मेमोरी, जिससे retains आंकड़ा बगैर power.
For अनुप्रयोग requiring तेज़ अभिगम, लकिन नहीं necessarily आंकड़ा हठ बाद शक्ति loss, SSDs may be constructed from random-access memory ( RAM ).
Such devices may employ separate power sources, such as बैटरी, to maintain आंकड़ा बाद शक्ति घाटा.
Hybrid ड्राइव or ठोस राज्य संकर ड्राइव ( sshd ) combine the सुविधाएँ of ssds और hdds in the वही ईकाई, containing a large hard disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data.
ये डिवाइस may प्रस्ताव near-ssd प्रदर्शन for many applications.
Salmon roe ( left ) and sturgeon caviar ( right ) served with mother of pearl caviar spoons to avoid tainting the स्वाद of the caviar.
Ossetra caviar, salmon creme fraiche, आलू shallot croquette, बेसिल आयल, egg whites and yolks
caviar, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization, is a product made from salt-cured fish-eggs of the Acipenseridae family.
The roe can be `` fresh '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized, साथ pasteurization reducing इसके culinary and economic value.
Traditionally the term caviar refers तभी to roe इससे जंगली sturgeon in the कैस्पियन और ब्लैक समंदर ( बेलुगा, ossetra and Sevruga caviars ).
Depending on the country, caviar may also be used to describe the roe of अन्य मछली ऐसे as सामन, steelhead, ट्राउट, lumpfish, whitefish, and other species of sturgeon.
Caviar is considered a luxury कोमलता और is खाया as a गार्निश or a spread.
In 2012, caviar sold for $ 2,500 per pound, or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 प्रति किलो.
The SEC Network is a television syndication network featuring live broadcasts of college football और बास्केट कार्यक्रम इससे the southeastern सम्मेलन.
It is owned and operated by ESPN Plus and is दिखाया in अधिक than 50 प्रतिशत of households in the United States, mostly Southeastern United States markets.
The सेक संजाल typically airs in the नून पूर्वी स्लॉट that was former home to the Raycom Sports SEC game of the week.
Games are shown locally on broadcast stations, regional sports संजाल, as खूब as on ईएसपीएन gameplan, ईएसपीएन Full Court, and ESPN3.com.
The SEC Network is also उपलब्धियाँ in कनाडा via अटलांटा 's WPCH-TV.
The SEC Network uses the same on-screen ग्राफिक्स फिलहाल प्रयुक्त by ईएसपीएन on एबीसी, a संस्करण of ESPN 's graphics package.
SEC Network 's फ़ुटबॉल प्रोग्रामिंग स्टिल उपयोग a शीर्षक सुरक्षित क्षेत्रफल क्युकी सबसे of इसके affiliates do नहीं letterbox उनके मानक Definition feeds, while ESPN 's television networks have allowed their graphics to abandon the title safe, but letterbox for SD viewers.
Starting with the SEC 2012 Basketball season, SEC संजाल 's ग्राफिक्स have महरूम परिवर्तित to a 16:9 Widescreen-only format.
This is also होने प्रयुक्त लिये the 2013 बास्केट ऋतु, लकिन था स्टिल adapted the former 4:3-safe graphics format for the 2012 SEC football season.
The 1990s, pronounced and भी ज्ञात as `` the nineteen-nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the Nineties '' or `` the '90s '', was a decade that began on January 1, 1990, and ended on December 31, 1999.
It was the 10th and पिछला दशक of the 20th सदी and the 100th and last decade of the 2nd millennium.
The decade is best known for the end of the Cold War at the शुरूआत of the दशक और the विस्तार और व्यावसायीकरण of the अंतरजाल दौरान the दूसरी half of the decade.
In much of the वेस्ट the 1990s is remembered as a काल of unprecedented सलाम और समृद्धि, हालांकि many parts of the so-called Third World faced various problems including genocide, AIDS and new or continuing ethnic tensions and civil wars.
Culturally बोलना the दशक थी characterized by the वृद्धि of multiculturalism and alternative media.
Movements such as grunge, the rave scene and hip hop स्प्रेड around the संसार to यंग लोगों दौरान the दशक, aided by then-new प्रौद्योगिकी ऐसे as cable television and the Internet.
A combination of factors, including the mass mobilization of पूंजी बाज़ार through neoliberalism, the शुरूआत of the फैली अप्रसार of नई media such as the Internet, and the dissolution of the Soviet Union led to a realignment and reconsolidation of economic and political power across the world, and within countries.
आय असमानता among देशों in the संसार रोज़ sharply between the 1980s and the mid-1990s, before levelling off and then falling after 2000.
New जातीय विरोध उभरा in अफ़्रीकी, the balkans और the काकेशस, the पूर्व दो जिससे led to the Rwandan genocide and Bosnian genocide, respectively.
The United States began its current military occupation of the मध्य ईस्ट दौरान the गर्मियाँ of 1990 साथ मरुस्थल शील्ड बाद it काटें बंद a विशाल portion of the world 's petroleum supply.
Signs of any resolution of tensions between Israel and the Arab world remained elusive, though the Irish Troubles came to a standstill in 1998 साथ the शुभ शुक्रवार अनुबंध बाद 30 सालो of violence.
The gray wolf or grey wolf ( Canis lupus ) is a प्रजाति of canid देशी to the wilderness और रिमोट क्षेत्रों of North America, Eurasia, and North Africa.
it is the largest सदस्य of इसके परिवार, साथ males averaging, and females.
It is similar in general appearance and proportions to a German shepherd, or sled श्वान, लकिन रै a larger सिर, narrower छाती, longer टाँगे, straighter tail and bigger paws.
Its winter fur is long and bushy, और predominantly a mottled धूसर in रंग, हालांकि nearly pure श्वेत, red, or brown to black also occur.
Within the genus Canis, the gray wolf represents a more specialised and progressive form than its छोटी cousins ( the कायोटी और सुनहरी jackal ), as demonstrated by इसके morphological adaptations to शिकार विशाल शिकार, इसके अधिक मिलनसार प्रकृति और its highly advanced expressive behavior.
It is a social एनिमल, यात्राएं in नाभिकीय परिवारों consisting of a पन्द्रहवें जोड़ी, accompanied by the pair 's adult offspring.
The gray wolf is typically an apex परभक्षी throughout इसके दायरा, साथ तभी इंसानो and tigers posing a serious threat to it.
It feeds primarily on विशाल ungulates, हालांकि it भी eats smaller animals, livestock, carrion, and garbage.
The gray wolf is one of the world 's most well researched animals, with संभवतः अधिक किताबे लिखा परिचय it than कोई अन्य वन्यजीव प्रजाति.
It has a long history of association with humans, having महरूम despised और hunted in सबसे agricultural समुदायों due to इसके हमले on पशुधन, while conversely being respected by some Native American tribes.
It is the sole ancestor of the dog, जिससे थी पहला domesticated in the Middle East.
Although the fear of भेड़ियों is प्रचलित in अनेक इंसान समाजों, the बहुमत of अंकित attacks on people have been attributed to animals suffering from rabies.
Non-rabid wolves have attacked and killed people, मुख्यतः children, लकिन इस is असामान्य, as भेड़ियों हैं अपेक्षाकृत few, सजीव दूर from people, and have been taught to fear humans by hunters and shepherds.
Hunting and trapping has reduced the प्रजाति ' दायरा to, हालांकि इसके स्टिल अपेक्षाकृत फैली दायरा और stable जनसांख्यिकी अर्थात् that the species is not threatened at a global level, and is therefore classified by the IUCN as Least Concern.
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient रोमन सभ्यता, characterised by an निरंकुश रूप of सरकारी और विशाल territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old Roman Republic, which preceded it, had been destabilized through a series of civil wars.
Several events marked the परिवर्तन इससे गणतंत्र to साम्राज्य, सहित जूलियस सीज़र 's नियुक्ति as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ).
The first two centuries of the Empire were a period of unprecedented stability and समृद्धि ज्ञात as the pax romana ( `` रोमन सलाम '' ).
It reached its महानतम expanse दौरान the शासनकाल of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ).
In the 3rd century, the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened its अस्तित्व, लकिन थी reunified और stabilized अंतर्गत the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian.
Christians rose to power in the 4th सदी, दौरान जिससे समय a प्रणाली of डुअल नियम थी developed in the Latin West and Greek East.
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th century, the पूर्वी हाफ जारी as कया होता बाद be ज्ञात as the बीज़ान्टिन Empire.
क्युकी of the साम्राज्य 's विशाल extent और long सहनशीलता, the संस्थानों और संस्कृति of रोम था a profound और स्थायी influence on the विकास of language, religion, architecture, philosophy, law, and forms of government in the territory it governed, particularly Europe, and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
Education in the United राज्य is मुख्यतः provided by the पब्लिक सेक्टर, साथ कंट्रोल और funding coming from three levels : local, state, and federal, in that order.
Child education is compulsory, and there हैं भी a विशाल क्रमांक और चौड़ी किस्में of उच्चतर शिक्षा संस्थानों throughout the देश कि one can choose to attend, both publicly and privately administered.
Public education is universally उपलब्धियाँ.
School curricula, funding, teaching, employment, और अन्य नीतियों हैं नियत through locally निर्वाचित स्कूल फलक साथ क्षेत्राधिकार over स्कूल districts with many directives from state legislatures.
School districts हैं प्रायः पृथक इससे अन्य लोकल jurisdictions, with independent officials and budgets.
शैक्षणिक मानकों और मानकीकृत testing decisions are usually made by state governments.
The ages लिये अनिवार्य शिक्षा vary by state.
It begins from ages five to eight और ends इससे आयु चौदह to अठारह.
Compulsory education requirements can generally be संतुष्ट by educating children in पब्लिक स्कूलों, state-certified निजी schools, or an approved home school program.
In most public and private schools, education is divided into three levels : elementary स्कूल, मध्य स्कूल ( sometimes पुकारा जूनियर ऊँची स्कूल ), और ऊँची स्कूल ( sometimes referred to as secondary education ).
In almost all schools at these levels, children हैं विभाजित by आयु समूह into ग्रेड, ranging इससे किंडरगार्टन ( followed by पहला grade ) for the youngest children in elementary school, up to twelfth grade, the final year of high school.
The exact age दायरा of विद्यार्थी in ये ग्रेड स्तर varies slightly from area to area.
post-secondary शिक्षा, बेहतर ज्ञात as `` कॉलेज `` in the संयुक्त राज्य, is generally governed separately from the elementary and high school system, and is described in a separate section below.
Government supported, free पब्लिक स्कूलों लिये सब प्रारंभ होने स्थापित बाद the क्रान्ति, और expanded in the 19th century, as the results of efforts of men like Horace Mann and Booker T. Washington.
By 1870, all राज्य था फ़्री elementary schools, albeit only in urban centers.
As the 20th century खींचा nearer, राज्य प्रारंभ गुजर कानून to मेक schooling अनिवार्य, and by 1910, 72 percent of children attended school.
Private स्कूलों जारी to स्प्रेड दौरान इस time, as well as colleges and—in the rural centers— land grant colleges.
The year of 1910 भी देखी the पहला सच्चा ऊँची स्कूलों.
During the बाकी of the 20th सदी, शैक्षणिक efforts centered on reducing the inequality of the schooling system.
The landmark Supreme Court case Brown v. Board of Education made the desegregation of elementary और ऊँची स्कूलों a नेशनल प्रधानता, जबकि the pell ग्रान्ट कार्यक्रम helped ग़रीब अल्पसंख्यकों लाभ access to college.
खास शिक्षा थी बना into federal law in 1975.
The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 made मानकीकृत परीक्षण a आवश्यकता, और in 1983, a आयोग थी स्थापित to evaluate उनके results and propose a course of action.
The resulting no चाइल्ड बाएँ Behind Act of 2001 was controversial and its goals proved to be unrealistic.
A आयोग स्थापित in 2006 evaluated उच्चतर शिक्षा, but its recommendations have yet to be fully implemented.
Paul Bragg ( February 6, 1895 – दिसम्बर 7, 1976 ), nutritionist, थी a पायोनियर in America’s wellness movement.
Health spending per capita, in $ US PPP-adjusted, with the US और कनाडा compared amongst अन्य पहला संसार राष्ट्र.
Comparison of the health care प्रणालियों in कनाडा और the संयुक्त राज्य हैं प्रायः बना by government, public health and public policy analysts.
The two देशों था समान स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणालियों before Canada reformed its system in the 1960s and 1970s.
The United States spends much more money on health care than कनाडा, on दोनो a per-capita आधार और as a percentage of GDP.
In 2006, per-capita बिता लिये स्वास्थ्य परवाह in कनाडा थी us $ 3,678 ; in the U.S., US $ 6,714.
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP on स्वास्थ्य परवाह in कि साल ; कनाडा spent 10.0 %.
In 2006, 70 % of health care spending in Canada थी financed by सरकारी, versus 46 % in the United States.
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % उच्चतर than कनाडाई सरकारी बिता, और u.S. सरकारी व्यय on स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी बस अंतर्गत 83 % of कुल कनाडाई बिता ( पब्लिक और private ) though these statistics do n't take into account population differences.
Studies have come to different conclusions परिचय the परिणाम of इस disparity in बिता.
A 2007 पुनर्विलोकन of सब अध्ययन comparing स्वास्थ्य outcomes in कनाडा और the us in a कनाडाई peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in Canada versus the United States, but differences are not consistent. ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada, and its infant mortality rate is lower than that of the U.S., but वहीँ is बहस परिचय the underlying कल्याणकारी of these differences.
One commonly cited comparison, the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '', which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of health, the वितरण of स्वास्थ्य, the स्तर of responsiveness और निष्पक्षता of वित्तीय योगदान '', क्रमित कनाडा 30th और the us 37th among 191 सदस्य nations.
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '', or quality of service for individuals receiving उपचार, as 1st, compared साथ 7th लिये कनाडा.
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US, simply comparing the जीवन प्रत्याशा of दो समूह साथ अलग जातिगत मेकअप और अलग मोटापा दरों is संभावित नहीं an प्रभावी रास्ता of determining जिससे healthcare प्रणाली is श्रेष्ठ.
The WHO 's study methods were criticized by कुछ analyses.
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care, assuming the जनसांख्यिकी मेकअप is समान, a हाल रपट by the congressional शोध सेवा carefully summarizes कुछ हाल आंकड़ा and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons.
The sound source has अभी टूटा through the ध्वनि गति अवरोध, और is traveling at 1.4 times the speed of sound, ( Mach 1.4 ).
Since the source is moving faster ( with a speed ) than the sound लहरें it creates, it दरअसल लीड the advancing तरंगाग्र.
The sound source will pass by a stationary निरीक्षक ( साथ a गति ) पहले the निरीक्षक दरअसल hears the sound it creates.
As a result, an निरीक्षक in सामने of the सोर्स will detect
and an observer पीछे the सोर्स.
A sonic boom produced by an वायुयान चलती at m=2.92, calculated from the cone angle of 20 degrees.
An observer hears the boom when the shock wave, on the edges of the कोन, crosses उसके or उसके स्थान.
mach कोन angle
A sonic boom is the sound associated with the shock लहरें निर्मित by an ऑब्जेक्ट traveling through the एयर तेज़ than the गति of sound.
Sonic booms generate विशाल amounts of ध्वनि energy, sounding much like an explosion.
The crack of a सुपरसोनिक गोली गुजर ओवरहेड is an उदाहरण of a sonic boom in miniature.
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno is an American late-night talk show hosted by Jay लीनो कि initially aired इससे may 25, 1992 to may 29, 2009, और resumed उत्पादन on कूच 1, 2010.
The fourth incarnation of the tonight दिखाएँ मताधिकार बना इसके डेब्यू on may 25, 1992, तीन दिनों following Johnny Carson 's retirement as host of the program.
The program originates from NBC Studios in Burbank, California, and is broadcast Monday through शुक्रवार at 11:35 pm in the पूर्वी and Pacific time zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain time ).
Unlike Carson or his predecessor Jack Paar, Leno only एकबार utilized a अतिथि मेजबान, preferring to मेजबान the श्रेणी by himself.
On April 26, 1999, the show began broadcasting in 1080i hdtv, बनने the पहला अमरीकी nightly talk show to be shot in high definition.
The दिखाएँ is शॉट in 16:9 aspect ratio.
The series, which followed the same basic format as that of his predecessors ( an opening monologue followed by कॉमेडी दिनचर्या, साक्षात्कार और प्रदर्शन ), भागा जबतक may 29, 2009, बाद जिससे लीनो थी succeeded by Conan O'Brien.
NBC signed Leno to a new सौदे लिये a nightly बात दिखाएँ in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot.
The primetime series, titled The Jay Leno Show, debuted on सितंबर 14, 2009, following a समान स्वरूप to the लीनो अवतार of Tonight.
Neither O'Brien 's version of the program, which premiered June 1, 2009, nor The Jay लीनो दिखाएँ उत्पन्न the दरजा that NBC had expected.
The network decided to मूव a सघन 30-minute संस्करण of लीनो 's दिखाएँ to o'brien 's समय स्लॉट, and O'Brien 's Tonight Show a half-hour later.
This decision met साथ विपक्ष इससे o'brien, जिनकी कार्यावधि on the tonight दिखाएँ ended January 22, 2010, after which he began his own talk show on TBS.
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno then began इसके दूसरी और वर्तमान अवतार, the छठे of the मताधिकार, on March 1, 2010.
RFID चिप अगला to a अनाज of rice.
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field कुंडली कि modulates an बाह्य चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र a coded पहचान क्रमांक जब queried by a reader device.
This small type is incorporated in उपभोक्ता उत्पाद, और implanted in पालतु, for identification purposes.
Radio-frequency पहचान ( rfid ) is the बेतार non-contact उपयोग of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड to transfer data, for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects.
The टैग contain electronically stored information.
Some tags are powered and read at छोटी सीमाएँ ( a few मीटर ) via चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड ( इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक induction ).
अन्य उपयोग a लोकल शक्ति सोर्स ऐसे as a बैटरी, or else have no बैटरी लकिन collect उर्जा इससे the interrogating em फ़ील्ड, और तब अधिनियम as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e., electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ).
बैटरी संचालित टैग may operate at सैंकड़ों of meters.
Unlike a bar code, the tag does not necessarily need to be भीतर लकीर of sight of the रीडर, and may be embedded in the tracked object.
RFID tags are प्रयुक्त in अनेक उद्योग.
An RFID tag attached to an automobile during production can be प्रयुक्त to track इसके प्रगति through the सभा line.
दवाएँ can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock and pets may have tags injected, allowing धनात्मक पहचान of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing, possessions, or even implanted within people, the possibility of reading personally-linked सूचना बगैर सहमति रै उठाया गोपनीयता चिंताएं.
Id, ego and super-ego are the three parts of the psychic apparatus defined in Sigmund Freud 's संरचनात्मक मॉडल of the psyche ; वे हैं the तीन सैद्धांतिक constructs in शर्तें of जिनकी कार्यकलाप and interaction mental life is described.
According to this model of the psyche, the id is the set of uncoordinated instinctual trends ; the super-ego plays the नाजुक और moralizing भूमिका ; और the अहंकार is the व्यवस्थित, यथार्थवादी भाग कि mediates between the इच्छाओं of the id and the super-ego.
The super-ego can stop you from doing certain बाते कि अपना id may want तुम to do.
Even though the model is structural and makes सन्दर्भ to an apparatus, the id, अहंकार और super-ego हैं कृत्यों of the mind rather than parts of the brain and do not correspond one-to-one with actual somatic structures of the kind dealt with by neuroscience.
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in the विकास of फ्रायड 's विचार : the `` संरचनात्मक मॉडल '' ( जिससे succeeded उसके `` आर्थिक मॉडल '' और `` topographical मॉडल '' ) थी पहला discussed in उसके 1920 निबन्ध `` परे the ख़ुशी Principle `` and was formalized and elaborated upon three years later in his `` The Ego and the Id ``.
Freud 's proposal was influenced by the ambiguity of the term `` बेहोश `` और इसके अनेक conflicting उपयोग.
Air Force rotc emblem
The Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps ( AFROTC ) is एक of the तीन प्राथमिक commissioning स्त्रोत लिये अधिकारियों in the संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स, the अन्य दो होने the संयुक्त राज्य Air Force Academy ( USAFA ) and Air Force Officer Training School ( OTS ).
A subordinate command of the Air University within the Air Education and Training Command ( AETC ), AFROTC is लकीर अंतर्गत the jeanne M. holm बीच लिये अधिकारी accessions और नागरिक Development at Maxwell AFB, Alabama.
The Holm Center, formerly ज्ञात as the एयर फ़ोर्स अधिकारी accession और प्रशिक्षण स्कूलों ( afoats ), retains direct responsibility for both AFROTC and OTS.
afrotc is the largest और oldest सोर्स of commissioned officers for the U.S. Air Force.
AFROTC 's stated मिशन is to उपज विशेषता leaders for the U.S. Air Force.
AFROTC units are located on 144 college and विश्वविद्यालयों campuses साथ 984 अतिरिक्त संस्थानों of उच्चतर सीखना participating in cross-town समझौतों कि allow their students to attend AFROTC classes at a nearby `` host '' college or university.
According to AFOATS HQ, in 2006, AFROTC commissioned 2,083 यूएसएएफ दूसरी lieutenants, साथ afrotc नामांकन ranging इससे 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993, and around 13,000 enrolled today.
AFROTC units at colleges and universities are called `` detachments, '' और हैं typically headed by an क्रियाशील ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ अधिकारी in the रैंक of कर्नल or लेफ्टिनेंट कर्नल जो कृत्यों as दोनो the detachment कमांडर for USAF purposes and with the nominal title of Professor of Aerospace Studies ( PAS ) within the institution 's academic community.
सबसे कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों होगा designate the afrotc detachment as the Department of Aerospace Studies.
The PAS is assisted by three to four सहायक professors of aerospace अध्ययन ( apas ), सब क्रियाशील ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ अधिकारियों in the ranks of major or captain.
Three USAF non-commissioned अधिकारियों और एक वरिष्ठ non-commissioned अधिकारी होगा typically provide सैन्य administrative support and are often augmented by one to two civilian staff support employees of the academic institution.
Within AFROTC detachments, the students ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) हैं व्यवस्थित into विंग्स, समूह, squadrons, और flights, mirroring the USAF functional wing structure.
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet समूह is अलग into दो विभाजन : the सामान्य सैन्य कोर्स ( जीएमसी ) consisting of the पहला two years of training, and the Professional Officer Course ( POC ) consisting of the last two years of training.
The afrotc कार्यक्रम is भी विभाजित into दो प्रशिक्षण कृत्यों : the अकादमिक कक्षा कार्यक्रम ( Aerospace Studies classes ) and Cadet Activities ( i.e., Leadership Laboratory, Physical Training, and other training ).
Paper density ( also known as basis weight and grammage ) is a term used in the pulp and paper industry and also लिये कपड़ा उद्योग to denote a माप of द्रव्यमान of the उत्पाद प्रति ईकाई of क्षेत्रफल for a type of fabric, paper or paperboard.
The term `` घनत्व '' is नहीं प्रयुक्त in इसके परंपरागत sense of mass per unit volume.
`` Paper घनत्व '', बल्कि, is a माप of the area density.
Paper products that let little or no light pass through ( e.g. पोस्टर फलक ) हैं माना dense or heavy.
Paper products that allow some लाइट to pass through ( e.g. ऊतक पेपर ) are considered lightweight.
In the pulp and paper industry, it is आम to नियत a वाणिज्यिक पेपर यंत्र to उपज paper to a target paper density.
Paper density can also be प्रयुक्त to फर्क पेपर इससे paperboard as the latter प्रायः रै a grammage greater than 134 g/m2.
Two ways of expressing पेपर घनत्व हैं commonly used:
Expressed in grams per square meter ( g/m2 ), paper घनत्व is भी ज्ञात as grammage.
This is the measure used in सबसे भाग of the संसार.
Expressed in terms of the द्रव्यमान ( expressed as वज़न ) प्रति क्रमांक of चादरें, it is known as basis weight.
The सम्मेलन प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त राज्य और a few अन्य देशों using us पेपर sizes is pounds of a ream of 500 ( or in some cases 1000 ) sheets of a given ( raw, still uncut ) basis size.
Japanese paper is expressed as the वज़न in kg of 1000 sheets.
Candace Nicole Parker ( born April 19, 1986 ) is an अमरीकी बास्केट खिलाड़ी लिये the wnba 's लॉस एंजिल्स स्पार्क्स and UMMC Ekaterinburg of Russia.
She is the younger सिस्टर of एनबीए खिलाड़ी एंथोनी Parker.
She attended the University of Tennessee और थी drafted by the स्पार्क्स in 2008.
She may be best known for होने the पहला स्त्री to डंक in an ncaa टूर्नामेंट खेल और the पहला स्त्री to डंक twice in a कॉलेज game—she set both milestones as a redshirt freshman on March 19, 2006.
She also became तभी the दूसरी खिलाड़ी to डंक in a wnba खेल on June 22, 2008.
A versatile player, she is mainly a आगे, लकिन थी सूचीबद्ध on टेनेसी 's रोस्टर as a forward, center, and guard.
She was a starter on the Lady Vols basketball team, विजेता of the 2007 और 2008 ncaa championships.
Parker won the 2009 निकलोडियन बच्चे ' चुनाव पुरस्कार as the favorite female athlete in the sports category.
And she was a अतिथि स्टार on फिगर It Out.
A खाना मार्गदर्शिका पिरामिड is a पिरामिड तराशा मार्गदर्शिका of स्वस्थ भोजन विभाजित into भाग to show the recommended intake for each food group.
the पहला खाना पिरामिड थी published in Sweden in 1974.
The most widely known food पिरामिड थी introduced by the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of कृषि in the year 1992, was updated in 2005, and then replaced in 2011.
Over 25 other countries and organisations have भी प्रकाशित खाना पिरामिडों.
Hans ईसाई andersen ( ; प्रायः referred to in scandinavia as H. C. Andersen ; April 2, 1805August 4, 1875 ) was a Danish author and poet.
Although a prolific writer of plays, travelogues, novels, and कविताएं, andersen is बेहतरीन remembered लिये उसके परी किस्से, a साहित्यिक विधा he so mastered कि he himself has become as mythical as the tales he wrote.
Andersen 's popularity is not limited to children ; उसके stories—called, or `` fantastic किस्से '' —express विषयवस्तु कि transcend age and nationality.
During his lifetime he was acclaimed for having प्रसन्न children विश्वव्यापी और थी feted by royalty.
Andersen 's fairy tales, which have been अनूदित into अधिक than 125 भाषाएं, have become culturally अंतःस्थापित in the वेस्ट 's सामूहिक चेतना, readily accessible to children, लकिन पेश lessons of virtue and resilience in the face of adversity for mature readers as well.
They have प्रेरित गति तस्वीरें, plays, नाटिकाओं, and animated films.
Two figures locking eyes in caravaggio 's the सौभाग्य Teller
Eye contact occurs when `` two people look at प्रत्येक अन्य 's आँखें at the वही time. ''
In human beings, eye सम्पर्क is a रूप of अशाब्दिक संचार और is विचार to have a large influence on social behavior.
Coined in the early to mid-1960s, the term has come in the West to often define the act as a सार्थक और महत्वपूर्ण चिह्न of विश्वास and social communication.
The customs and significance of नजर सम्पर्क vary widely between संस्कृतियों, साथ धार्मिक और सोशल मतभेद often altering its meaning greatly.
The study of नजर सम्पर्क is sometimes ज्ञात as oculesics.
Bed bugs are parasitic कीट of the cimicid परिवार कि feed exclusively on blood.
The term most commonly refers to members of the genus Cimex of which Cimex lectularius, the common bed कीड़ा, is the बेहतरीन ज्ञात as it prefers to फीड on इंसान रक्त हालांकि अन्य cimex प्रजाति हैं specialized to अन्य पशु, e.g., चमगादड़ बग, C. pipistrelli ( Europe ), C. pilosellus ( western US ), and C. adjunctus ( entire eastern US ).
The name of the `` bed bug '' is derived from the preferred habitat of Cimex lectularius : warm houses and विशेषकर आसपास or अंदर of beds और bedding or अन्य sleep areas.
Bed bugs are mainly क्रियाशील at रात्रि, लकिन हैं नहीं exclusively nocturnal.
They usually feed on उनके होस्ट बगैर होने noticed.
A number of adverse health effects may result इससे bed कीड़ा bites, सहित स्किन rashes, मनोवैज्ञानिक effects, and allergic symptoms.
Diagnosis involves both ढूंढना bed बग और the occurrence of संगत symptoms.
Bed bugs have महरूम ज्ञात as इंसान परजीवी लिये thousands of years.
At a point in the early 1940s, they यहूद ज़्यादातर eradicated in the विकसित संसार, लकिन have increased in prevalence since 1995.
Because infestation of human habitats has been on the increase, bed bug bites और सम्बन्धित शर्तें have महरूम on the वृद्धि as खूब.
The Book of Isaiah ( ) is the पहला of the latter नबियों in the यहूदी बाइबल, preceding Ezekiel, Jeremiah and the Book of the Twelve.
( The order of the subsequent किताबे differs somewhat in the ईसाई बूढ़ा Testament ).
The first 39 अध्याय prophesy यातना लिये a गुनाहगार यहूदा और लिये सब the राष्ट्र of the संसार कि oppose परमेश्वर, जबकि the पिछला 27 prophesy the बहाली of the स्वदेश of इसराईल और a नई सृष्टि in परमेश्वर 's गौरवशाली भविष्य किंगडम ; this section includes the Songs of the Suffering Servant, four separate passages referring to the nation of Israel, interpreted by Christians as prefiguring the coming of Jesus Christ.
परंपरा ascribes authorship of the किताब to यशायाह बेटे of amoz, लकिन अभी विद्वानों widely सहमत that the book is the work of three different authors - few scholars deny this view, and those that do, do so for theological reasons.
The first, termed Proto-Isaiah ( chapters 1–39 ), contains the words of the 8th-century BCE prophet with 7th-century BCE expansions ; the second, Deutero-Isaiah ( chapters 40–55 ), is the work of a 6th-century BCE author writing near the end of the Babylonian captivity ; और the तीसरा, the काव्य trito-isaiah ( अध्याय 56–66 ), थी रचित in जेरूसलम shortly बाद the वापसी इससे निर्वासन, probably by multiple authors.
Oregon State University ( OSU ) is a coeducational, पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in corvallis, ऑरेगॉन, संयुक्त States.
The विश्वविद्यालयों offers undergraduate, ग्रैजुएट और doctoral degrees and a multitude of research opportunities.
वहीँ हैं अधिक than 200 अकादमिक उपाधि कार्यक्रम offered through the university.
OSU 's programs in microbiology, nuclear engineering, पारिस्थितिकी, वानिकी, पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य, biochemistry, zoology, oceanography, food science and pharmacy are recognized nationally as top tier programs.
The OSU 's liberal कला कार्यक्रम have भी grown significantly and the department is considered a `` cornerstone '' of the institution.
More than 200,000 लोगों have attended osu चूंकि इसके founding.
The Carnegie Foundation classifies ऑरेगॉन राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों as भाग of इसके शीर्ष tier of research institutions.
As of 2008, OSU is one of only seventy-three land-grant universities.
The school is also recognized as a sea-grant, space-grant and sun-grant institution, making it one of only two us संस्थानों to retain सब चार designations और the तभी पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों to do so ( Cornell is the only other with similar designations ).
As one of the two flagship universities of the Oregon University System, OSU receives more funding लिये शोध, annually, than सब अन्य पब्लिक उच्चतर शिक्षा संस्थानों in ऑरेगॉन combined.
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of द्रव by इंसान महिलाओं इससे the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting, हालांकि ये हैं माना to be अलग phenomena in some research publications.
The exact source और प्रकृति of the द्रव continue to be a टॉपिक of बहस among चिकित्सा पेशेवर, which is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot.
The Kanab ambersnail, scientific name Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or oxyloma kanabense, is a critically endangered subspecies or प्रजाति of small, air-breathing land snail, a terrestrial pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the family Succineidae, the amber snails.
The common name of the amber snails is based on the शेल, जिससे is पारदर्शी और जब खाली प्रायः resembles एम्बर in color.
This species is endemic to the United States, specifically the राज्य of एरिज़ोना और यूटा, जहाँ it थी पहला एकत्रित in the early 20th century.
It has been listed as endangered on the United राज्य मछली और वन्यजीव सेवा सूची of endangered species since 8 August 1991.
This snail lives in wetlands, springs, and seeps, and तभी दो of इसके प्राकृतिक habitats हैं ज्ञात to मौजूद : तीन झीलों, a meadow near Kanab, Utah, and Vasey 's Paradise, a spring along the Colorado River within Grand Canyon National Park.
In its natural habitat it is rather polyphagous, feeding mainly on जीवाणु, पौधे और fungi, और reproduces during the summer.
Now considered a Critically Endangered species on the आईयूसीएन रेड सूची of threatened प्रजाति due to a श्रेणी of कारकों ( सहित influence ), the kanab ambersnail रै been reintroduced to three springs above the historic high water level along the Colorado River.
The Spanish language is the second most used language in the संयुक्त राज्य.
There are more Spanish speakers in the United States than there are speakers of चाइनीज, फ्रेंच, जर्मनी, इतालवी, हवाई, and the Native American languages combined.
According to the 2010 American Community Survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau, Spanish is the प्राथमिक भाषा बोला at घर by लगभग 37 लाख लोगों aged पाँच or पुरानी, a फिगर अधिक than दोगुना that of 1990.
There are 45 million hispanophones जो बोलो स्पेनी as a पहला or दूसरी भाषा, as खूब as छह लाख स्पेनी भाषा विद्यार्थी, composing the largest नेशनल spanish-speaking community outside of Mexico and making Spanish the Romance language and the Indo-European language with largest number of native speakers in the world.
Roughly half of सब u.S. स्पेनी अध्यक्षों भी बोलो अंग्रेज़ी `` बहुत खूब, '' based on the self-assessment Census question respondents.
The language came to the country since the 16th and 17th centuries with the arrival of स्पेनी colonists in क्षेत्रों कि होता बाद become the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा, टेक्सास, कोलोराडो, नई मैक्सिको, एरिज़ोना, नेवाडा, यूटा, और California and of the Spanish explorers - who explored areas of 42 states-.
Also west of louisiana territory थी स्पेनी between 1763 - 1800 ( year of the French recovery of territory ), after the French and Indian War.
After of the incorporation of these states to the U.S. in first half of 19th सदी, the स्पेनी भाषा थी बाद reinforced by the अधिग्रहण of प्यूर्टो रीको in 1898 और by बाद लहरें of the हिस्पैनिक करणों, basically from Hispanic America, to the United States beginning in the second half of 19th century until today.
is a Latin word that means `` यूँ '' or, in लिखने, `` it थी thus in the source material ''.
Sic may भी refer to:
Sic, cluj, a commune in Romania
SIC, the क्षेत्रीय code for Sicily
Sic ( रव कलाकार ), styled as [ sic ], स्टेज नाम of जेनिफर Morris, a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a आधुनिक hardcore/thrash मेटल बैंड from Torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a सोंग by अमरीकी बैंड Slipknot on the album Slipknot
sic, the आरंभिक of Marco Simoncelli.
SIC as an एक्रोनिम may stand for:
sic, सिलिकॉन कार्बाइड, a semiconducting material, also used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( società इटालियाना Cyclecars )
Standard औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण, a 20th-century u.S. प्रणाली for classifying industries
International Standard Industrial वर्गीकरण a un प्रणाली लिये आर्थिक क्रियाएँ
Shetland आइलैंड्स परिषद
the स्विस interbank Clearing system
San isidro क्लबों, an अर्जेंटाइन rugby union club
Standing Interpretation Committee, a committee dedicated to the निर्वचन of अंतरराष्ट्रीय हिसाब standards IFRS
Schwarz सूचना मानदंड in the फ़ील्ड of statistics
second-in-command in the फ़ील्ड of विमानन
Sistema Interconectado सेंट्रल शक्ति ग्रिड in चिली
Sociedade independente de comunicação ( sic ), a television channel in Portugal
Sea आइल नगर, नई जर्सी, a तटीय town in the United States
Segmented Integer Counter mode, a विधि of आपरेशन in cryptography
Sepang International Circuit, a high-end racetrack कि होस्ट the मलेशियाई गोलाकार of सूत्र 1
Shanghai International Circuit, a motor रेसिंग स्थान in शंघाई, चीन
सरलीकृत निर्देशात्मक कंप्यूटर, a hypothetical computer used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ), an early twentieth-century art पत्रिका उत्पादित by फ्रेंच लेखक पियरे Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College, a दो साल जूनियर कॉलेज in harrisburg, इलिनोइस, United States
Specific आगमनात्मक क्षमता, abbreviated to sic, जिससे is अधिक commonly known as the relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
St ignatius ' कॉलेज, riverview, a Jesuit school in Sydney, Australia
alt=five मुस्कुराना यंग लड़कियों in विभिन्न मुद्राएँ wearing श्वेत smocks over thigh-length dresses of similar color to their hair.
The Tokyo Mew Mew manga and anime श्रेणी सुविधाएँ a डाल of वर्ण designed by मिया ikumi.
The series takes place in Tokyo, Japan, where five adolescent लड़कियों, पुकारा mew mews, हैं infused साथ the डीएनए of endangered प्रजाति to कॉम्बैट एलियंस attempting to लो over the धरती.
The manga श्रेणी is followed by a छोटी sequel श्रेणी, टोकियो mew mew a la Mode, which introduces a new Mew Mew and a new threat.
The Mew Mews are led by the प्रमुख अक्षर, ichigo momomiya, जिनकी पहला कार्य is to एकत्रित the अन्य four Mew Mews : Mint Aizawa, Lettuce Midorikawa, Pudding Fong, and Zakuro Fujiwara.
As the series progresses, Ichigo goes इससे having a crush on masaya aoyama to बनने उसके गर्लफ्रेंड जबकि trying to hide her secret double life from him.
The series antagonists शामिल तीन एलियंस, kish, पाई, और तीखा, and their leader, Deep Blue.
Originally from Earth, the एलियंस यहूद मजबूर to छोड़ long पहले due to deadly environmental changes.
They have returned to kill the humans, who they feel are destroying उनके ग्रह, और reclaim the planet.
In a la Mode, middle school student Berry Shirayuki is introduced as the sixth Mew Mew and, in the अनुपस्थिति of ichigo, the अस्थाई नेता of the mew Mews.
A la Mode also introduces new set of antagonists, the Saint Rose Crusaders, a समूह of इंसान teenagers साथ विभिन्न मानसिक abilities साथ a ख्वाहिश to create their own utopia.
Led by Duke, they make several attempts to kill बेरी, आखिरकार turning the लोकल populace against the Mew Mews.
Ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo Mew Mew was a story called Tokyo ब्लैक बिल्ली लड़की कि प्रदर्शित a cat-girl battling alien invaders.
After the story was transitioned to a more upbeat स्टोरी of पाँच मादा superheroes, the अक्षर डिजाइन यहूद redone to have a lighter, more colorful feel.
The main series characters were praised for being a perfect अनुरूप लिये the overall स्टोरी, as खूब as लिये उनके cute appearances.
The characters introduced in a la Mode were भी praised लिये उनके विज़ुअल दिखावे, लकिन criticized as being repeats of the original series.
The character Duke was also criticized for having a डिज़ाइन reminiscent of the श्वेत सर्वोच्चता समूह, the Ku Klux Klan.
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence of siltstones ( below ) and limestones ( ऊपर ), वर्जिन गठन, southwestern यूटा, यूएसए
Sedimentary rocks are types of चट्टान कि हैं formed by the deposition of सामग्री at the धरती 's सतह और within bodies of water.
Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or सशुल्क अणु ( detritus ) to settle और accumulate or खनिज to precipitate from a solution.
अणु कि रूप a sedimentary चट्टान by accumulating are called sediment.
Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a सोर्स क्षेत्रफल, और तब transported to the प्लेस of deposition by जल, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation.
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth 's क्रस्ट is extensive, लकिन the कुल योगदान of sedimentary रॉक्स is अनुमानित to be only 8 % of the total volume of the crust.
Sedimentary rocks are तभी a पतला veneer over a क्रस्ट consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks.
Sedimentary rocks हैं deposited in परतों as strata, forming a ढांचा called bedding.
the पढ़ाई of sedimentary रॉक्स और चट्टान strata provides सूचना परिचय the subsurface that is useful for civil engineering, for example in the construction of roads, houses, tunnels, canals or other constructions.
Sedimentary rocks are also महत्वपूर्ण स्त्रोत of प्राकृतिक संसाधन जैसे कोयले, fossil fuels, drinking water or ores.
The study of the sequence of sedimentary चट्टान strata is the प्रमुख सोर्स लिये वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान about the Earth 's history, including palaeogeography, paleoclimatology and the history of life.
The scientific discipline that studies the properties and origin of sedimentary रॉक्स is पुकारा sedimentology.
Sedimentology is both part of geology and physical geography and overlaps partly with other disciplines in the Earth sciences, such as pedology, geomorphology, भूरसायन or संरचनात्मक भूविज्ञान.
350px
Humans हैं born साथ over 270 हड्डियों, कुछ of जिससे फ्यूज साथ into a अनुदैर्ध्य axis, the axial skeleton, to which the appendicular skeleton is attached.
Saint Patrick ( ; ; Modern ; ; c. 387 – 17 कूच c. 460 or c. 492 ) थी a romano-british ईसाई missionary and bishop in Ireland.
Known as the `` Apostle of Ireland '', he is the प्राथमिक संरक्षक संत of the द्वीप साथ साथ संतो brigid और columba.
Two authentic letters from him survive, from which come the तभी generally स्वीकृत विवरण of उसके जीवन.
When he was about 16, he was captured from his home and taken as a स्लेव to आयरलैंड, जहाँ he जिया लिये छह सालो पहले escaping और returning to उसके परिवार.
After becoming a cleric, he returned to उत्तरी और पश्चिमी आयरलैंड as an ordained बिशप, लकिन छोटी is ज्ञात about the places where he worked.
By the seventh century, he had already आइये to be revered as the patron saint of Ireland.
Most available details of his life are from subsequent hagiographies, और ये हैं अभी नहीं स्वीकृत बगैर विस्तृत criticism.
The Annals of Ulster state that he arrived in आयरलैंड in 432, ministered in ulster around 443, और died in 457 or 461.
The text, however, distinguishes between `` Old Patrick '' ( विचार to औसत palladius ) और `` पैट्रिक, archapostle of the स्कॉट्स, '' जो died in 492.
The actual dates of Patrick 's life can not be फिक्स्ड साथ certainty लकिन, on a फैली निर्वचन, he थी क्रियाशील as a मिशनरी in आयरलैंड during the second half of the 5th century.
He is generally credited with being the first बिशप of armagh, primate of सब Ireland.
Saint पैट्रिक 's दिन is observed on कूच 17, the date of his death.
It is celebrated both अंदर और बाहर आयरलैंड, as दोनो a धार्मिक और, especially outside Ireland, secular holiday.
In the dioceses of आयरलैंड, it is both a solemnity and a holy day of obligation ; outside Ireland, it can be a celebration of Ireland itself.
Line खण्ड in the सुनहरी ratio
A golden rectangle with longer side a और shorter पक्ष b, जब लगाई सटा to a वर्गाकार साथ पहलू of लंबाई a, होगा उपज a समान सुनहरी आयताकार साथ longer पक्ष a + b and shorter side a.
This illustrates the संबंध.
In mathematics और the कला, दो quantities हैं in the सुनहरी अनुपात if the अनुपात of the sum of the quantities to the larger quantity is equal to the ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller one.
The figure on the right illustrates the ज्यामितीय संबंध.
expressed algebraically:
where the Greek अक्षर फाई ( ) represents the सुनहरी अनुपात.
इसके मान is:
The golden अनुपात is भी पुकारा the सुनहरी खण्ड ( लैटिन : sectio aurea ) or golden mean.
Other names शामिल चरम और औसत अनुपात, medial खण्ड, दैवी proportion, दैवी खण्ड ( लैटिन : sectio divina ), golden proportion, golden cut, and golden number.
Many 20th century artists and architects have proportioned their works to सन्निकट the सुनहरी ratio—especially in the रूप of the सुनहरी आयताकार, in जिससे the अनुपात of the longer पक्ष to the shorter is the सुनहरी ratio—believing इस proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( देखिए Applications and observations below ).
Mathematicians since Euclid have studied the properties of the golden ratio, including its appearance in the dimensions of a regular प्रस्तुतीकरण और in a सुनहरी आयताकार, जिससे can be काटें into a वर्गाकार और a छोटी आयताकार with the same aspect ratio.
The golden ratio has also been used to analyze the proportions of natural वस्तुएँ as खूब as man-made प्रणालियों ऐसे as वित्तीय बाज़ार, in कुछ मामले आधारित on संदिग्ध fits to data.
North Myrtle बीच is a तटीय रिज़ॉर्ट नगर in horry काउंटी, दक्षिण Carolina, United States.
It was created in 1968 इससे चार मौजूदा municipalities उत्तर of myrtle बीच, और serves as one of the primary tourist towns along the Grand Strand.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 13,752 at the 2010 census.
World युद्ध i ( wwi ) थी a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी, austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन, as austria–hungary था लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध the अनुबंध, इटली किया not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies, और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और Bulgaria the Central Powers.
ultimately, अधिक than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों, सहित 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest विरोध in संसार इतिहास, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये various political changes, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the विदेशी नीतियों of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the किंगडम of सर्बिया.
Several alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और, via उनके colonies, the विरोध soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, लकिन थी रोका in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the उस्मानी साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 और रोमानिया in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove back the Germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives और अमरीकी शक्तियां began प्रवेश the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble with क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 नवम्बर 1918.
The war ended in विजय लिये the allies.
Events on the घर fronts यहूद as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts, as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the समाप्त of the युद्ध, चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory, जबकि the latter दो यहूद dismantled entirely.
The map of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into several smaller states.
The League of राष्ट्र थी formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
Camden is a city in Camden काउंटी, नई जर्सी, संयुक्त राज्य.
It is the काउंटी सीट, स्तिथ across the Delaware River from Philadelphia.
As of the 2010 United States Census the city had a कुल जनसांख्यिकी of 77,344, representing a मनाही of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) इससे the 79,904 residents enumerated during the 2000 Census, which had in turn declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) from the 87,492 counted in the 1990 Census.
Camden ranked as the 12th-most populous municipality in the राज्य in 2010 बाद having महरूम क्रमित 10th in 2000.
Camden was originally incorporated as a नगर on फ़रवरी 13, 1828, इससे portions of the now-defunct Newton Township, while the area was still part of Gloucester County.
On March 13, 1844, camden became भाग of the newly formed Camden County.
Although एकबार a thriving बीच लिये निर्माण और उद्योग, Camden is perhaps best known for its struggles with urban dysfunction.
तीन camden mayors have महरूम jailed लिये भ्रष्टाचार, the most recent being Milton Milan in 2000.
Since 2005 the school system and police विभाग have महरूम संचालित by the राज्य of नई जर्सी ; the कब्ज़ा समाप्त in 2012.
In 2008, Camden had the highest crime rate in the U.S. with 2,333 violent अपराधों प्रति 100,000 लोगों जबकि the नेशनल औसत was 455 per 100,000.
Camden public schools spent $ 23,770 प्रति छात्र ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil आधार ) in the 2009–10 school year and two-thirds of the students graduate.
Two out of every five residents are नीचे the नेशनल गरीबी लकीर.
Amitriptyline ( Tryptomer, Elavil, tryptizol, laroxyl, saroten, sarotex, lentizol, endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ).
It is the most widely used tca और रै at तनिक बराबर efficacy विरूद्ध अवसाद as the newer class of SSRIs according to a study from early 2001.
As खूब as reducing depressive लक्षण, ये प्रकार of tricyclics भी आसानी migraines, tension headaches, anxiety attacks and some schizophrenic symptoms.
it is भी ज्ञात to reduce आक्रामकता and violent behavior.
A computer is a general purpose device that can be प्रोग्रामित to carry आउट a परिमित नियत of गणित or logical operations.
Since a sequence of operations can be readily बदला, the कंप्यूटर can solve अधिक than one kind of problem.
Conventionally, a computer consists of at तनिक एक प्रसंस्करण तत्व, typically a सेंट्रल processing unit ( CPU ) and some form of memory.
The processing element carries out arithmetic and logic operations, और a sequencing और कंट्रोल ईकाई कि can बदलें the अनुक्रम of परिचालन आधारित on stored information.
Peripheral डिवाइस allow सूचना to be पुनर्प्राप्त इससे an बाह्य source, and the result of operations saved and retrieved.
The first electronic digital कंप्यूटर यहूद विकसित between 1940 और 1945 in the संयुक्त Kingdom and United States.
originally वे यहूद the आकार of a विशाल रूम, consuming as much power as several hundred modern personal computers ( PCs ).
In इस era mechanical एनालॉग computers were used for military applications.
Modern computers based on integrated circuits are millions to अरबों of टाइम्स अधिक सक्षम than the जल्दी मशीने, और occupy a भिन्न of the स्पेस.
Simple computers are small पर्याप्त to अनुरूप into मोबाईल डिवाइस, और मोबाईल कंप्यूटर can be संचालित by small batteries.
Personal computers in उनके विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म हैं प्रतीक of the सूचना Age and are what most people think of as “computers.”
However, the embedded कंप्यूटर मिला in अनेक डिवाइस इससे mp3 खिलाड़ी to सेनानी वायुयान और इससे खिलौने to औद्योगिक robots are the most numerous.
`` Barefoot and pregnant '' is a phrase most commonly associated with the विवादास्पद विचार कि महिलाओं चाहिए नहीं कार्य बाहर the घर और चाहिए have अनेक children दौरान उनके reproductive years.
It has several अन्य meanings as खूब.
it is a फिगर of speech.
The phrase `` barefoot and गर्भवती '' थी संभवतः पहला प्रयुक्त sometime before 1950.
An article from 1949 states, `` By जल्दी 1949, twa was—in the शब्द of इसके नई अध्यक्ष, ralph S. damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
Its usage may तिथि as जल्दी as the 1910s.
An article published in 1958 states the phrase was पहला प्रयुक्त by a `` Dr. Hertzler '' 40 years earlier.
`` Some forty years ago, Dr. Hertzler advanced a hypothesis which यंग महिलाओं of आज seem झुकी on proving correct. '
The only way to keep a स्त्री प्रसन्न, ' he कहा, 'is to रखना उसके barefoot and pregnant. ' ''
Oakhurst is a census-designated place और unincorporated जातियाँ भीतर समंदर township, in मॉनमाउथ काउंटी, नई Jersey, United States.
As of the 2010 United States Census, the cdp 's जनसांख्यिकी थी 3,995.
University of Phoenix Stadium, खोली अगस्त 1, 2006, is a बहुउद्देशीय फ़ुटबॉल स्टेडियम स्तिथ in Glendale, Arizona.
It is the home of the Arizona Cardinals of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( NFL ) and the annual Fiesta Bowl.
The stadium is located next door to the Jobing.com एरिना और it सुविधाएँ the पहला fully retractable प्राकृतिक ग्रास playing सतह निर्मित in the संयुक्त राज्य on top of an AirField Systems drainage system.
An opening on one side of the stadium allows the playing field to move to the exterior of the भवन, allowing the संपूर्ण प्राकृतिक turf playing सतह to be उजागर to daylight.
The stadium has hosted सुपर कटोरी xlii, और the 2011 bcs नेशनल चैंपियनशिप खेल, a खेल कि it होस्ट प्रत्येक चार सालो, जिससे set the venue 's entertainment attendance record of 78,603 on January 11, 2011.
It will again मेजबान सुपर कटोरी XLIX in 2015.
The विश्वविद्यालयों of फीनिक्स acquired the नामकरण अधिकारों in सितंबर 2006, shortly after the stadium had opened under the name Cardinals Stadium.
The `` विश्वविद्यालयों of फीनिक्स `` नाम is लागू as a कॉरपोरेट प्रायोजक, और नहीं as the घर स्टेडियम of the University ( which has no intercollegiate athletics program ).
The स्टेडियम रै भी hosted the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई इवेंट रेसलमेनिया XXVI with 72,219 fans in attendance.
The event was held in the stadium on कूच 28th 2010.
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain ( September 8, 1828 – February 24, 1914 ), born as Lawrence जोशुआ चेम्बरलेन, थी an अमरीकी कॉलेज प्राध्यापक इससे the राज्य of maine, जो volunteered during the American Civil War to join the Union Army.
Although having no earlier education in military strategies, he became a अत्यधिक आदरणीय और सजा Union officer, reaching the rank of brigadier general ( and brevet major general ).
For his gallantry at gettysburg, he थी awarded the पदक of Honor.
He was given the honor of commanding the संघ सैनिकों at the आत्मसमर्पण रस्म लिये the infantry of रॉबर्ट E. ली 's फौज at appomattox, Virginia.
After the war, he entered politics as a Republican and served चार one-year शर्तें of दफ्तर as the 32nd राज्यपाल of Maine.
He served on the faculty, and as अध्यक्ष, of उसके अल्मा मेटर, bowdoin College.
An inning, or innings, is a fixed-length segment of a game in any of a variety of sports – सबसे notably क्रिकेट और बेसबॉल दौरान जिससे एक टोली कोशिशें to स्कोर जबकि the अन्य टोली कोशिशें to prevent the पहला from scoring.
In क्रिकेट, the पद पारी is दोनो एकवचन और बहुवचन and is always spelled and pronounced with the terminal `` s ''.
In baseball and softball, the एकवचन रूप is inning और तभी the बहुवचन takes an `` s ''.
In many other sports, the length of the game is dictated by a clock and teams swap offensive and रक्षात्मक भूमिकाएँ dynamically by लेने कब्ज़ा of a बॉल or similar item.
In बेसबॉल और क्रिकेट, however, एक टोली, कहा to be `` बल्लेबाजी '', कोशिशें to स्कोर `` रनों '' —see चलाएं ( बेसबॉल ) and run ( cricket ) —while the other team, said to be `` fielding '', attempts to prevent the scoring of runs and get members of the batting team out.
The teams switch places after the क्षेत्ररक्षण टोली रै succeeded in getting a फिक्स्ड क्रमांक of खिलाड़ी आउट, बनाना a क्लॉक unnecessary.
In cricket, the term innings is also used to refer to the खेल of एक particular खिलाड़ी ( स्मिथ था a poor innings, scoring only 12 ).
By extension, इस पद can be प्रयुक्त in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी लिये लगभग कोई कार्यकलाप जिससे takes a काल of समय ( the उदार सरकारी था a शुभ पारी, but finally lost office in 1972, or You 've had a fair innings, now it 's my turn, meaning `` you have spoken for long enough, now let me speak '' ).
It is also प्रयुक्त in सन्दर्भ to किसी जो रै died at a reasonably old age or lived a rich and rewarding life ( Ah, well.
John थी 89.
At least he था a शुभ पारी ).
The baseball-derived parallel to इस in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी is the पद at bat.
According to the Oxford English शब्दकोष, the पद पारी रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in सन्दर्भ to क्रिकेट चूंकि at तनिक 1735.
As cricket was a mature, अत्यधिक व्यवस्थित खेल in the 1600s in इंग्लैण्ड, the पद 's उत्पत्ति could well precede this first recorded usage.
The word inning अर्थ 'a महफ़िल in ' is पहला अंकित in 1522, and could be related.
एडीनोसिन deaminase कमियां, भी पुकारा एडीए कमियां or ADA-SCID, is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that causes immunodeficiency.
It occurs in fewer than one in 100,000 सजीव births विश्वव्यापी.
It accounts for परिचय 15 % of सब मामले of severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ).
It is very rare, तुम have a 3 % मौका of getting this gene.
ADA deficiency may be उपस्थित in शैशव, बाल्यकाल, adolescense, or adulthood.
Age of onset and गंभीरता is सम्बन्धित to कुछ 29 ज्ञात genotypes associated with the disorder.
An example of urban गरीबी in इस slum in Jakarta, Indonesia
Poverty is the state of one जो lacks a निश्चित राशि of सामग्री possessions or money.
Absolute poverty or destitution refers to the deprivation of मौलिक इंसान needs, जिससे commonly शामिल खाना, water, sanitation, clothing, shelter, health care and education.
Relative poverty is defined contextually as economic inequality in the स्थान or समाज in which people live.
For much of history, poverty was considered largely unavoidable as traditional मोड्स of उत्पादन यहूद अपर्याप्त to दे an संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी a आरामदायक मानक of living.
After the industrial revolution, mass production in कारखानों बना माल increasingly अधिक inexpensive और accessible.
Of more importance is the modernization of कृषि, ऐसे as fertilizers, in order to provide enough yield to feed the population.
The supply of basic needs can be restricted by constraints on government services such as भ्रष्टाचार, कर avoidance, कर्ज़ और ऋण conditionalities और by the दिमाग नाली of स्वास्थ्य परवाह और educational professionals.
Strategies of increasing income to make basic needs more affordable typically शामिल welfare, आर्थिक freedoms, और providing वित्तीय services.
Poverty reduction is a प्रमुख लक्ष्य और समस्या लिये अनेक international organizations such as the United Nations and the World Bank.
the संसार बैंको अनुमानित 1.29 अरब people were living in absolute poverty in 2008.
Of these, about 400 million लोगों in निरपेक्ष गरीबी जिया in इण्डिया और 173 million people in China.
In यूएसए 1 in 5 children lives in poverty.
In terms of percentage of क्षेत्रीय populations, sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी at 47 % had the highest incidence rate of absolute poverty in 2008.
between 1990 और 2010, परिचय 663 लाख people moved above the absolute poverty level.
Still, extreme poverty is a global challenge ; it is observed in सब भाग of the संसार, सहित the विकसित economies.
Mushroom poisoning ( also known as mycetism ) refers to harmful effects from ingestion of विषाक्त substances उपस्थित in a मशरूम.
These लक्षण can vary इससे पतला जठरांत्र तकलीफ to death.
The toxins present are secondary metabolites उत्पादित in विशिष्ट biochemical pathways in the fungal cells.
मशरूम विषाक्तता is प्रायः the परिणाम of ingestion of जंगली मशरूम बाद misidentification of a toxic mushroom as an edible species.
The most common reason लिये इस misidentification is बंद प्रतिरूप in शर्तें of रंग और general morphology of the toxic mushrooms species with edible species.
Even very experienced wild mushroom gatherers are upon rare अवसर poisoned by खाने विषाक्त प्रजाति, despite होने खूब जागरूक of the risks, through carelessness.
To prevent mushroom poisoning, mushroom gatherers need to be very familiar with the मशरूम वे intend to collect as खूब as साथ कोई similar-looking विषाक्त species.
In addition, edibility of मशरूम may निर्भर on विधि of तैयारी लिये cooking.
Collectors also need to be well जागरूक कि edibility or toxicity of कुछ प्रजाति varies with geographic location.
इंसान ऊँचाई is the अलहदा इससे the नीचे of the feet to the top of the head in a human body, standing erect.
When populations share जेनेटिक पृष्ठभूमि और पर्यावरणीय कारकों, औसत ऊँचाई is frequently characteristic within the group.
Exceptional height variation ( around 20 % deviation from average ) within such a population is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism, जिससे हैं चिकित्सा शर्तें caused by विशिष्ट जीनों or अंतःस्रावी abnormalities.
In regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare, environmental factors like chronic malnutrition during बाल्यकाल or किशोरावस्था may खाता लिये विलम्बित विकास and/or ( in कठोर मामले ) चिह्नित reductions in वयस्क stature भी बगैर the उपस्थिति of कोई of ये medical conditions.
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight that landed the पहला इंसानो, अमेरिकी neil आर्मस्ट्रांग और बज़ एल्ड्रिन, on the चंद्रमा on July 20, 1969, at 20:18 UTC.
Armstrong became the पहला to कदम onto the चंद्र सतह 6 hours later on July 21 at 02:56 UTC.
आर्मस्ट्रांग खर्च परिचय दो और a हाफ घंटों बाहर the spacecraft, एल्ड्रिन थोड़ा कम ; and together they collected of lunar material for return to Earth.
A third member of the mission, Michael Collins, piloted the command spacecraft alone in lunar orbit until आर्मस्ट्रांग और एल्ड्रिन लौटे to it बस अंतर्गत a दिन बाद लिये the ट्रिप back to Earth.
Launched by a Saturn V rocket from Kennedy Space Center in merritt द्वीप, फ्लोरिडा on जुलाई 16, अपोलो 11 थी the पांचवां मानवयुक्त मिशन of नासा 's अपोलो program.
The Apollo spacecraft had three parts : a Command मोड्यूल साथ a केबिन लिये the तीन astronauts जिससे थी the तभी भाग जिससे उतरा वापस on Earth ; a Service Module which supported the Command Module with propulsion, electrical power, oxygen and water ; and a Lunar Module for landing on the Moon.
After being sent to the Moon by the शनि v 's अपर स्टेज, the astronauts separated the spacecraft from it and travelled for three days until they entered into lunar orbit.
Armstrong and Aldrin then स्थानांतरित into the चंद्र मोड्यूल और उतरा in the समुद्र of Tranquility.
They stayed a total of about 21 और a हाफ घंटों on the चंद्र surface.
After lifting off in the अपर भाग of the चंद्र मोड्यूल और rejoining कॉलिन्स in the Command Module, they returned to Earth and landed in the Pacific Ocean on July 24.
Broadcast on live TV to a world-wide audience, आर्मस्ट्रांग stepped onto the चंद्र सतह और वर्णित the इवेंट as `` एक छोटी कदम लिये [ a ] man, one giant leap for mankind. ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the Space Race and fulfilled a नेशनल लक्ष्य प्रस्तावित in 1961 by the लेट u.S. अध्यक्ष जॉन F. कैनेडी in a speech before the United States Congress, `` before this decade is out, of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth. ''
The FIFA World Cup, often बस the संसार कप, is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the वरिष्ठ मेन 's नेशनल टीमों of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded प्रत्येक चार सालो चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, मगर in 1942 और 1946 जब it थी not held because of the Second World War.
The current champions are स्पेन, जो जीती the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which currently takes place over the preceding three years, is used to determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट साथ साथ the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have महरूम जीती by आठ अलग national teams.
Brazil have won five times, and वे हैं the तभी टोली to have निभाई in every tournament.
the अन्य संसार कप विजेता हैं इटली, साथ चार शीर्षक ; जर्मनी, with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay, with two titles each ; and England, France, and Spain, with one title each.
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 लाख लोगों देखी the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The next तीन संसार cups होगा be hosted by Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
Genocide is a term coined in 1944 by Raphael Lemkin to describe the deliberate and systematic destruction, in पूरे or in भाग, of an जातीय, racial, religious, or national group.
It is defined in Article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as `` any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group, as ऐसे : हत्या सदस्यों of the समूह ; causing गंभीर bodily or दिमागी नुक़सान to सदस्यों of the समूह ; deliberately inflicting on the समूह शर्तें of जीवन, गणना to लाओ परिचय इसके शारीरिक विनाश in पूरे or in भाग ; imposing उपायों intended to prevent births within the group ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of the group to another group. ''
Skulls of पीड़ितों of the Rwandan Genocide
The preamble to the CPPCG not only states that `` नरसंहार is a अपराधों अंतर्गत अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि, contrary to the स्पिरिट और aims of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र और condemned by the civilized world '', but also that `` at all periods of history genocide has inflicted great losses on humanity ''.
Determining what historical कार्यक्रम constitute a नरसंहार और जिससे हैं merely दण्ड or inhuman behavior is not a clear-cut matter.
In nearly every case where accusations of genocide have circulated, partisans of various sides have fiercely विवादित the निर्वचन और विवरण of the इवेंट, प्रायः to the point of promoting wildly different versions of the facts.
an accusation of नरसंहार is कतई not taken lightly and will almost always be controversial.
The following list of genocides and alleged genocides should be understood in इस कॉन्टेक्स्ट और can नहीं be regarded as the फाइनल शब्द on these subjects.
A timing belt is a non-slipping mechanical ड्राइव बेल्ट और the पद may refer to either:
Toothed belt, a लचीली बेल्ट साथ दांत moulded onto its inner surface
Timing belt ( camshaft ), a toothed बेल्ट प्रयुक्त to drive the camshaft ( s ) within an internal combustion engine
The culture of the United States is primarily a पश्चिमी संस्कृति, लकिन is भी बहकावे by देशी अमरीकी, अफ़्रीकी, एशियाई, Polynesian, and Latin American cultures.
American culture started its formation over 10,000 सालो पहले साथ the माइग्रेशन of paleo-indians इससे एशिया into the region that is today the continental United States.
It has its own unique social and cultural विशेषताएँ ऐसे as dialect, म्यूज़िक, कला, सोशल आदतें, भोजन, और folklore.
The United States of अमेरिका is an ethnically और racially विविध देश as a परिणाम of large-scale आव्रजन इससे many different countries throughout its history.
Its chief early European influences came from English, Scottish, वेल्श और आयरिश settlers of औपनिवेशिक अमेरिका दौरान British rule.
British culture, due to colonial ties with ब्रिटेन कि स्प्रेड the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा, विधिक प्रणाली और अन्य सांस्कृतिक inheritances, had a formative influence.
Other important प्रभाव आए इससे अन्य भाग of पश्चिमी Europe, especially Germany, France, and Italy.
असली तत्व भी खेल a दमदार भूमिका, ऐसे as the invention of Jeffersonian democracy.
Thomas जेफरसन 's टीप on the राज्य of वर्जिनिया थी शायद the पहला influential घरेलू सांस्कृतिक critique by an American and a reactionary piece to the prevailing European consensus that America 's domestic originality was degenerate.
प्रचलित विचार और आदर्शों कि विकसित domestically, ऐसे as नेशनल छुट्टियाँ, uniquely अमरीकी sports, military tradition, and innovations in the arts and entertainment give a strong sense of national pride among the population as a whole.
American संस्कृति शामिल दोनो रूढ़िवादी और उदार तत्व, वैज्ञानिक और धार्मिक competitiveness, political structures, risk taking and free expression, materialist and moral elements.
Despite certain consistent ideological principles ( e.g. individualism, egalitarianism, और आस्था in स्वतंत्रता और लोकतंत्र ), अमरीकी संस्कृति रै a किस्में of expressions due to इसके भौगोलिक scale and demographic diversity.
The flexibility of U.S. culture और इसके अत्यधिक सांकेतिक प्रकृति सीसे कुछ शोधकर्ताओं to categorize अमरीकी संस्कृति as a mythic पहचान ; others see it as American exceptionalism.
It also includes elements that विकसित इससे स्वदेशी अमेरिकी, और अन्य जातीय cultures—most prominently the culture of African Americans, cultures from Latin America, and Asian American cultures.
Many American cultural elements, especially from लोकप्रिय संस्कृति, have स्प्रेड आरपार the ग्लोब through modern mass media.
The United States has often been thought of as a melting घट, लकिन शुरूआत in the लेट 1990s और जल्दी 2000s, it रुझान towards सांस्कृतिक विविधता, बहुलवाद and the image of a salad bowl instead.
Due to the extent of American culture, there हैं अनेक एकीकृत लकिन अद्वितीय सोशल subcultures भीतर the United States.
The cultural affiliations an individual in the United States may have commonly depend on social class, political orientation and a multitude of जनसांख्यिकी विशेषताएँ ऐसे as धार्मिक पृष्ठभूमि, occupation and ethnic group membership.
Samoan ( Gagana fa'a Sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa — IPA : ) is the language of the Samoan Islands, comprising the स्वतंत्र देश of समोआ और the संयुक्त राज्य territory of American Samoa.
It is an आधिकारिक language—alongside अंग्रेज़ी —in दोनो jurisdictions.
Samoan, a पोलिनेशियाई भाषा, is the पहला language for most of the Samoa Islands ' population of about 246,000.
With many Samoan people living in अन्य देशों, the कुल क्रमांक of अध्यक्षों विश्वव्यापी is estimated at 370,000.
The language is notable for the phonological differences between formal and अनौपचारिक वाक as खूब as a ceremonial रूप प्रयुक्त in samoan छाये.
A ग्लूकोज सहिष्णुता परीक्षण is a चिकित्सा परीक्षण in which glucose is given and blood samples taken afterward to determine how quickly it is cleared from the blood.
The test is usually used to test for diabetes, इंसुलिन प्रतिरोध, और sometimes प्रतिक्रिया hypoglycemia और acromegaly, or rarer disorders of carbohydrate metabolism.
In the सबसे commonly performed संस्करण of the परीक्षण, an मौखिक ग्लूकोज सहिष्णुता परीक्षण ( ogtt ), a मानक खुराक of glucose is ingested by mouth and blood levels are checked two hours later.
Many variations of the GTT have been devised over the years for विभिन्न उद्देश्य, साथ अलग मानक doses of ग्लूकोज, अलग रूट of प्रशासन, अलग intervals और durations of sampling, और विभिन्न substances measured in addition to blood glucose.
`` कया परिचय me '' is a सोंग लिखा by गैरी तुषार और frances swan, first recorded by Australian rock band Moving Pictures from their album Days of Innocence.
It was the band 's first number-one single in Australia spending six लगातार सप्ताह on the शीर्ष ; वहीँ, it थी the second-highest selling सिंगल of 1982.
The success of the song led them to अमेरिका जहाँ it became a hit, reaching # 29 on the u.s. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
The song stayed in the U.S. charts for such a long time that it managed to मेक billboards शीर्ष 100 पॉप singles of 1983, at # 88, a विरल feat for a single with such a low peak position.
The song made an असामान्य वापसी in 1989, peaking at # 46.
On the left a chicken egg, the अंडा सबसे commonly खाया by इंसानो, and on the right two quail eggs
Eggs are laid by females of many different species, including birds, reptiles, amphibians, और मछली, और have महरूम खाया by mankind लिये हज़ारों of सालो.
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a सुरक्षात्मक eggshell, albumen ( अंडा श्वेत ), और vitellus ( अंडा yolk ), contained within various thin membranes.
Popular choices for egg consumption are chicken, duck, quail, roe, and caviar, but the egg most प्रायः खपत by इंसानो is the मुर्गा अंडा, by a wide margin.
Egg yolks and whole अंडे स्टोर significant amounts of प्रोटीन और choline, and are widely used in cookery.
Due to their protein content, the United States विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ) categorizes अंडे as meats भीतर the Food Guide Pyramid.
Despite the nutritional मान of अंडे, वहीँ हैं कुछ संभावित स्वास्थ्य issues arising from egg quality, storage, and individual allergies.
Chickens and other egg-laying creatures are widely kept throughout the संसार, और द्रव्यमान उत्पादन of मुर्गा अंडे is a वैश्विक उद्योग.
In 2009, an estimated 62.1 million metric tons of अंडे यहूद उत्पादित विश्वव्यापी इससे a कुल लेटा flock of approximately 6.4 billion hens.
वहीँ हैं मुद्दे of क्षेत्रीय विभिन्नता in माँग और अपेक्षा, as खूब as current debates concerning methods of mass production, with the European Union 's ban on battery farming of chickens.
Major League Soccer ( MLS ) is a professional soccer लीग representing the खेल 's उच्चतम स्तर in the United States and Canada.
Sanctioned by the संयुक्त राज्य सॉकर संघ ( u.S. सॉकर ), the लीग is रचित of 19 teams — 16 in the U.S. and 3 in Canada.
Seasons presently run from March to December, साथ प्रत्येक टोली playing 34 खेल in the नियमित season.
Ten teams compete in the postseason mls कप playoffs culminating in the चैंपियनशिप खेल, the MLS Cup.
Major लीग सॉकर थी संस्थापित in 1993 as part of the United States ' bid to host the 1994 FIFA World Cup.
The first season took place in 1996 शुरूआत साथ ten teams.
Instead of operating as an association of independently owned teams, MLS is a single entity where each team is owned and नियंत्रित by the लीग 's निवेशकों.
The league 's बंद सदस्यता makes it एक of the world 's few soccer leagues not using promotion and relegation.
The legality of कैनबिस varies इससे देश to country.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in सबसे देशों और रै महरूम चूंकि the शुरूआत of फैली कैनबिस prohibition in the late 1930s.
however, अनेक देशों have decriminalized the कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of cannabis, particularly in North America, South America and Europe.
Furthermore, possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands, North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन if it यहूद नहीं लिये संघीय विधि, जिससे governs व्यक्तियों in all states.
The medicinal use of कैनबिस is विधिक in a क्रमांक of देशों, सहित Canada, the Czech Republic and Israel.
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis, enforcement varies widely at the state level and some states have established medicinal marijuana programs in कि खण्डन संघीय विधि ; दो राज्य ( कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन ) have repealed उनके कानून prohibiting the recreational उपयोग of कैनबिस and replaced them with a regulatory regime, also contrary to federal statute.
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but, apart from the countries कि प्रस्ताव अभिगम to चिकित्सा मारिजुआना, सबसे देशों have विभिन्न दंड ranging इससे lenient to very severe.
Some infractions हैं लिया अधिक seriously in कुछ देशों than अन्य in regard to the cultivation, use, possession or transfer of cannabis for recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened दंड लिये कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of cannabis, making it punishable by confiscation and a fine, rather than imprisonment.
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment programs for young or बारंबार उपयोक्ता, साथ स्वतंत्रता इससे narcotic दवाएँ as the लक्ष्य और a few jurisdictions परमिट कैनबिस उपयोग लिये medicinal purposes.
There are also परिवर्तन in a अधिक प्रतिबंधक direction as in Canada.
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly common in अनेक देशों और have resulted in कारावास वाक्य and people losing their jobs.
However, simple possession can carry long jail sentences in कुछ देशों, विशेषकर in भाग of ईस्ट Asia and Southeast Asia where the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution.
in cardiovascular physiology, ejection भिन्न ( ef ) represents the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary वाल्व into the pulmonary परिसंचरण or the बाएँ ventricle जिससे ejects via the aortic वाल्व into the systemic circulation.
इमेजिंग of the physiology of the mammalian दिल is the आर्ट कि allows meaningful mathematical expression defining EF.
noninvasive हृदय इमेजिंग रै become a विश्वव्यापी यूटिलिटी enabling study of cardiac performance reproducibly and inexpensively.
Simplified, ejection भिन्न is a गणितीय उत्पाद अनुमत by cardiac imaging.
As a mathematical term, ejection भिन्न is an एक्सटेंशन of the कार्य of Adolph Fick in cardiac output.
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, चुम्बकीय अनुनाद इमेजिंग और muga स्कैनिंग have definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक गणित regarding Ischemia, Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure.
State Route 14 ( sr 14 ) is a north–south राज्य राजमार्ग in the U.S. state of California, largely in the Mojave Desert.
The southern portion of the highway is हस्ताक्षरित as the antelope घाटी फ्रीवे.
The route connects Interstate 5, or Golden State फ्रीवे, निकट सांता clarita और साथ u.S. Route 395 near Inyokern.
Legislatively, the route extends south of I-5 to State Route 1 in the Pacific Palisades area of Los Angeles, however the portion दक्षिण of the जंक्शन साथ i-5 has not been constructed.
The southern part of the constructed रूट is a व्यस्त commuter फ्रीवे सेवारत और connecting the समुदायों of सांता clarita, palmdale और lancaster with the rest of the Greater Los Angeles area.
The northern portion, from Vincent ( south of Palmdale ) to Route 395, is legislatively named the Aerospace Highway, as the राजमार्ग serves एडवर्ड्स एयर फ़ोर्स आधार, एकबार एक of the प्राथमिक लैंडिंग स्ट्रिप्स लिये नासा 's स्पेस शटल.
This section is rural, following the line between the hot mojave मरुस्थल और the forming Sierra Nevada mountain range.
Most of Route 14 is loosely paralleled by a main line of the Southern Pacific Railroad, used for the Antelope Valley Line of the metrolink commuter रेल प्रणाली as खूब as a कनेक्शन between लॉस एंजिल्स और the कैलिफ़ोर्निया सेंट्रल घाटी via tehachapi pass.
Linked with US 395, इस सड़क connects लॉस एंजिल्स साथ ऐसे स्थान as Mammoth Mountain, Mono Lake, Yosemite National Park and Reno, Nevada.
Route 14 was part of U.S. रूट 6 prior to truncation in 1964, जब u.S. 6 थी a coast-to-coast route from Long Beach to Provincetown, Massachusetts.
The non-freeway segment of SR 14 from Silver Queen Road north of Rosamond to Mojave is known as सिएरा राजमार्ग, as is the बूढ़ा रूटिंग between अंतरराज्यीय 5 और चांदी महारानी सड़क जहाँ sr 14 रै been moved to a newer freeway alignment.
portions of रूट 14 remain हस्ताक्षरित साथ names संबद्ध साथ us 6, including Midland Trail, Theodore Roosevelt Highway and Grand Army of the Republic Highway.
इस रूट is भाग of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया फ्रीवे और एक्सप्रेसवे System.
Blindness is the condition of lacking विज़ुअल बोध due to physiological or neurological factors.
Various scales have been developed to describe the extent of दृष्टि घाटा और define दृष्टिहीनता.
कुल दृष्टिहीनता is the पूरा कमी of रूप और विज़ुअल लाइट बोध and is clinically recorded as NLP, an abbreviation for `` no light perception. ''
दृष्टिहीनता is अक्सर प्रयुक्त to describe कठोर visual impairment with vision.
Those described as having only light perception have no अधिक sight than the क्षमता to बताना लाइट इससे अंधेरा और the सामान्य दिशा of a light source.
To determine which people may need special assistance because of their visual disabilities, various governmental jurisdictions have formulated more complex परिभाषाएं referred to as विधिक दृष्टिहीनता.
In उत्तर अमेरिका और सबसे of यूरोपीय, विधिक blindness is defined as visual acuity ( vision ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better eye with best correction possible.
इस अर्थात् कि a legally अँधा व्यक्तिगत होता have to स्टैंड इससे an ऑब्जेक्ट to see it—with corrective lenses —with the same degree of clarity as a normally sighted person could from.
In many areas, people with average acuity who nonetheless have a visual field of कम than 20 डिग्री ( the norm होने 180 डिग्री ) are also classified as being legally blind.
लगभग टेन प्रतिशत of those deemed legally अँधा, by any measure, have no vision.
The rest have some vision, from लाइट बोध अलोन to अपेक्षाकृत good acuity.
Low दृष्टि is sometimes प्रयुक्त to describe विज़ुअल acuities from 20/70 to 20/200.
By the 10th Revision of the WHO International Statistical Classification of Diseases, Injuries and Causes of Death, low vision is defined as visual acuity of कम than 20/60 ( 6/18 ), लकिन बराबर to or बेहतर than 20/200 ( 6/60 ), or सम्बन्धित विज़ुअल फ़ील्ड घाटा to कम than 20 डिग्री, in the बेहतर नजर साथ best possible correction.
Blindness is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/400 ( 6/120 ), or सम्बन्धित विज़ुअल field loss to less than 10 degrees, in the better eye with best possible correction.
Blind people with undamaged eyes may still register light non-visually लिये the purpose of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark cycle.
Light signals for this purpose travel through the retinohypothalamic tract और हैं नहीं प्रभावित by ऑप्टिक तंत्रिका क्षति परे जहाँ the retinohypothalamic ट्रैक्ट exits.
Earl Simmons ( born दिसम्बर 18, 1970 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by his stage names DMX and Dark Man X, is an American rapper and actor.
In 1999, DMX released his best-selling album... And Then वहीँ थी x, जिससे प्रदर्शित the hit सिंगल `` Party Up ( Up in Here ) ``.
He has acted in films such as Belly, रोमियो जरूर die, निकास wounds, पालना 2 The Grave, and Last Hour.
In 2006, he स्ट्रक्चर in the वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, जिससे थी primarily aired on the BET cable television network.
In 2003, dmx प्रकाशित a किताब of उसके memoirs entitled, E.A.R.L. : The Autobiography of DMX.
DMX released a mixtape The Weigh In as a prelude/promotion towards उसके एल्बम undisputed ( 2012 ).
DMX रै बेची over 30 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, making him one of the best-selling hip-hop artists of all time.
Professional certification, trade certification, or professional designation, प्रायः पुकारा बस प्रमाणन or योग्यता, is a नामांकन अर्जित by a person to assure qualification to perform a job or task.
Not सब certifications कि उपयोग post-nominal अक्षर हैं an acknowledgement of educational achievement, or an agency appointed to safeguard the public interest.
Bugs Bunny is a मजेदार एनिमल कार्टून अक्षर, बेहतरीन remembered लिये उसके अभिनीत भूमिकाएँ in the looney धुनें and Merrie Melodies series of theatrical short films produced by Warner Bros. during the Golden age of American animation.
His popularity during this era led to उसके बनने a कॉरपोरेट शुभंकर of Warner Bros. Entertainment.
Bugs is an anthropomorphic gray hare or rabbit who is famous for his flippant, व्यक्तित्व, a सुनाया नई यॉर्क एक्सेंट, उसके portrayal as a छलिया, और उसके कैच phrase `` Eh...
What 's up, दस्तावेज़ ? ''
( usually said जबकि चबाने a carrot ).
Bugs has appeared in more films than कोई अन्य कार्टून अक्षर और is the नवीं most portrayed film personality in the world.
According to his 1990 `` जीवनी '' बग बनी : 50 सालो और तभी एक धूसर हरे, बग थी born on जुलाई 27, 1940 in Brooklyn, New York in a warren under Ebbets Field, home of the Brooklyn Dodgers.
In reality, he was brought to life by the animators and staff of Leon Schlesinger Productions ( later Warner Bros. cartoons ) : सहित टेक्स एवेरी, जो निर्देशित बग ' जल्दी निर्णायक छोटी a जंगली हरे ( 1940 ) ; Robert McKimson, who created Bugs ' definitive character design ; and Mel Blanc, who originated the voice of Bugs.
The mucous membranes ( or mucosae or mucosas ; singular mucosa ) हैं linings of ज़्यादातर endodermal उत्पत्ति, covered in epithelium, which are involved in absorption and secretion.
They line cavities कि हैं उजागर to the बाह्य पर्यावरण and internal organs.
They are at several places contiguous with स्किन : at the नथुनों, the होठ of the मुँह, the eyelids, the कानों, the genital area, and the anus.
The sticky, thick fluid secreted by the श्लेष्मक झिल्लियों और ग्रंथियों is termed mucus.
The term mucous झिल्ली refers to जहाँ वे हैं मिला in the देह और नहीं प्रत्येक श्लेष्मक membrane secretes mucus.
The glans clitoridis, glans penis ( head of the penis ), along साथ the अंदर of the अग्रत्वचा और the clitoral हुड, हैं श्लेष्मक झिल्लियों.
The urethra is also a श्लेष्मक झिल्ली.
The secreted mucus traps the pathogens in the देह, preventing कोई further activities of diseases.
A master सार्जेंट is the सैन्य रैंक लिये a वरिष्ठ non-commissioned officer in some armed forces.
Cake is a रूप of ब्रैड or bread-like food.
In its modern forms, it is typically a मीठी baked मिठाई.
In its oldest forms, cakes were normally fried breads or cheesecakes, और सामान्यतः था a disk shape.
Determining whether a given food should be वर्गीकृत as ब्रैड, केक, or पेस्ट्री can be मुश्किल.
Modern cake, especially layer cakes, सामान्यतः contain a संयोजन of आटा, शुगर, अंडे, और मक्खन or आयल, साथ कुछ किस्में भी requiring द्रव ( typically मिल्क or जल ) और leavening एजेंटों ( such as yeast or baking powder ).
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées, nuts, सूखी or candied फल, or extracts हैं प्रायः added, और numerous substitutions लिये the primary ingredients are possible.
Cakes are often filled with fruit preserves or dessert sauces ( like pastry cream ), आइस्ड साथ buttercream or अन्य icings, और सजा साथ marzipan, piped सीमायें or candied fruit.
Cake is often the dessert of choice for meals at ceremonial occasions, विशेषकर विवाह, वर्षगांठ, और जन्मदिन.
There are countless केक व्यंजनों ; कुछ हैं bread-like, कुछ समृद्ध और विस्तृत, and many are centuries old.
Cake making is no longer a complicated procedure ; while at one time considerable labor went into cake making ( particularly the whisking of egg foams ), baking equipment and दिशानिर्देश have महरूम सरलीकृत so कि भी the सबसे amateur कुक may बेक a केक.
Tamara Faye LaValley Bakker Messner ( March 7, 1942 – July 20, 2007 ) was an American ईसाई सिंगर, इंजीलवादी, उद्योगों, लेखक, बात दिखाएँ मेजबान, और टेलीविज़न personality.
She was married इससे 1961 to 1992 to televangelist, और later convicted felon, Jim Bakker.
She co-hosted साथ उसे on the ptl क्लबों ( 1976–1987 ).
She was a participant in the 2004 ऋतु of the वास्तविकता दिखाएँ the surreal जीवन.
Cambria is a गाँव in कोलंबिया काउंटी, विस्कॉन्सिन, United States.
The population was 767 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
It is part of the मैडिसन महानगर सांख्यिकीय Area.
पब्लिक नीति is the principled मार्गदर्शिका to कार्रवाई लिया by the प्रशासनिक executive branches of the state with regard to a class of issues in a manner consistent with law and institutional customs.
In general, the foundation is the pertinent नेशनल और substantial संवैधानिक विधि और implementing legislation such as the US Federal code.
Further substrates include both judicial interpretations और regulations जिससे हैं generally प्राधिकृत by विधान.
Other scholars define it as a प्रणाली of `` पाठ्यक्रम of कार्रवाई, नियामक उपायों, कानून, और funding priorities concerning a given topic promulgated by a governmental entity or its representatives. ''
Public policy is commonly समाविष्ट `` in constitutions, विधान acts, and judicial decisions. ''
In the United States, this concept refers नहीं तभी to the परिणाम of नीतियों, लकिन अधिक broadly to the decision-making and analysis of governmental decisions.
As an academic अनुशासन, पब्लिक नीति is पढ़ाई by professors और students at public policy schools of major universities throughout the country.
The U.S. पेशेवर संघ of पब्लिक नीति practitioners, शोधकर्ताओं, scholars, and students is the Association for Public Policy Analysis and Management.
Digestion is the mechanical और रासायनिक विश्लेषण of खाना into छोटी components that are more easily absorbed into a blood stream, for instance.
Digestion is a form of catabolism : a विश्लेषण of विशाल food molecules to smaller ones.
When food enters the मुँह, पाचन of the खाना starts by the कार्रवाई of mastication, a form of mechanical digestion, and the wetting contact of saliva.
Saliva, a liquid secreted by the salivary ग्रंथियों, contains salivary amylase, an एंजाइम जिससे starts the पाचन of मंड in the food.
After undergoing mastication और मंड पाचन, the food will be in the form of a small, round slurry mass called a bolus.
It will then travel down the esophagus and into the stomach by the कार्रवाई of peristalsis.
Gastric juice in the stomach starts प्रोटीन पाचन.
Gastric juice mainly contains हाइड्रोक्लोरिक acid and pepsin.
As ये दो रसायन may क्षति the पेट wall, mucus is secreted by the stomach, providing a slimy layer that acts as a shield against the damaging effects of the chemicals.
At the same time protein पाचन is occurring, mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis, जिससे are waves of muscular contractions that move along the stomach wall.
This allows the mass of खाना to further मिक्सर साथ the digestive enzymes.
After some time ( typically an घंटा or दो in इंसानो, 4–6 घंटों in कुत्तो, somewhat shorter अवधि in हाउस बिल्लियों ), the resulting thick liquid is called chyme.
When the pyloric sphincter valve opens, chyme enters the duodenum जहाँ it mixes साथ digestive enzymes from the pancreas, and then passes through the small intestine, in which digestion continues.
When the chyme is fully पचता, it is अवशोषित into the blood.
95 % of अवशोषण of nutrients occurs in the small intestine.
Water and minerals are reabsorbed back into the रक्त in the कोलन ( विशाल आंत ) जहाँ the ph is slightly acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9.
Some vitamins, such as biotin and vitamin K ( K2MK7 ) produced by जीवाणु in the कोलन हैं भी अवशोषित into the रक्त in the कोलन.
Waste सामग्री is eliminated इससे the rectum during defecation.
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) थी किंग of इंग्लैण्ड इससे 21 अप्रैल 1509 जबतक उसके मौत.
He was रब, और बाद किंग, of आयरलैंड, as खूब as continuing the नाममात्र claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France.
Henry was the second monarch of the ट्यूडर राजवंश, succeeding his father, Henry VII.
Besides his six marriages, Henry VIII is known for his role in the separation of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे the रोमन कैथोलिक Church.
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the separation of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे papal प्राधिकार, the विच्छेद of the monasteries, and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a believer in core Catholic theological शिक्षाओं, भी बाद उसके excommunication इससे the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry oversaw the विधिक संघ of इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स साथ the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542.
In 1513, the new king allied with the पावन रोमन सम्राट, maximillian i, और invaded फ़्रांस in 1513 साथ a विशाल, well-equipped फौज, but achieved little at a considerable financial cost.
Maximillian, for his part, used the English invasion to his own ends, and this prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड 's क्षमता to शिकस्त the फ्रेंच.
This foray होता prove the प्रारंभ of an obsession for Henry, who invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's शक्तियां captured the महत्वपूर्ण नगर of boulogne, लकिन again the पावन रोमन सम्राट, चार्ल्स v, समर्थित Henry only as long as he needed to and England, strained by the enormous cost of the war, ransomed the city back for peace.
His contemporaries considered हेनरी in उसके प्रधान to be an आकर्षक, शिक्षित और संपन्नता किंग, और he रै महरूम वर्णित as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne ''.
Besides ruling with absolute शक्ति, he भी सगाई खुद as an author and composer.
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a बेटी होता be असमर्थ to consolidate the ट्यूडर राजवंश और the नाजुक सलाम कि existed following the युद्धों of the गुलाब – led to the दो बाते लिये जिससे हेनरी is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation.
Henry became रुग्ण मोटे और उसके स्वास्थ्य suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
he is अक्सर characterised in उसके बाद जीवन as a lustful, egotistical, harsh, and insecure king.
Bongos ( स्पेनी : bongó ) are an Afro-Cuban percussion instrument.
The ड्रम हैं of अलग आकार : the larger ढोल is पुकारा in स्पेनी the hembra ( female ) and the smaller the macho ( male ).
They are membranophones, or यंत्र कि बनाएँ ध्वनि by a स्पंदन of a stretched membrane.
अलग धार्मिक समूह शामिल अलग किताबे in उनके Biblical canons, in varying orders, and sometimes divide or combine books, or incorporate additional material into canonical books.
Christian Bibles range from the sixty-six books of the Protestant canon to the eighty-one किताबे of the ethiopian परंपरागत tewahedo गिरिजाघर canon.
The Hebrew Bible, or Tanakh, contains twenty-four books divided into three parts ; the five books of the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '' or `` विधि '' ), the nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ), और the ketuvim ( `` कृतियाँ '' ).
The first part of Christian Bibles is the Old Testament, which contains, at minimum, the twenty-four books of the Hebrew बाइबल विभाजित into thirty-nine किताबे और ordered differently इससे the यहूदी बाइबल.
The Catholic गिरिजाघर और पूर्वी ईसाई चर्च भी थाम निश्चित deuterocanonical किताबे and passages to be part of the Old Testament canon.
The second part is the New Testament, containing twenty-seven books ; the चार canonical gospels, अधिनियमों of the रसूलों, twenty-one epistles or अक्षर and the Book of Revelation.
The Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Catholic चर्च may have नाबालिग मतभेद in उनके सूचियाँ of स्वीकृत books.
The list given here for these churches is the सबसे समावेशी : if at तनिक एक पूर्वी गिरिजाघर स्वीकृत the book it is included here.
The national flag of the United States of America, often simply referred to as the American flag, consists of तेरह बराबर आड़ा धारियाँ of रेड ( शीर्ष और नीचे ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ श्वेत, साथ a ब्लू आयताकार in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` संघ '' ) bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the तेरह अंग्रेजों colonies कि घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union.
Nicknames for the flag include the `` सितारों और धारियाँ '', `` बूढ़ा महिमा ``, और `` the star-spangled ध्वज. ''
Dred Scott v. Sandford,, भी ज्ञात as the dred स्कॉट निर्णय, थी a लैंडमार्क निर्णय by the U.S. Supreme Court.
It बना दो प्रमुख rulings.
The first ruling was that african-americans यहूद नहीं नागरिकों, और इसलिए था no standing to sue in federal court.
The second ruling was that the federal government had no power to विनियमित गुलामी in कोई territory acquired subsequent to the सृष्टि of the संयुक्त राज्य.
Given the first ruling, most scholars and many समकालीन राजनैतिक आंकड़े ( सहित the नेतृत्व of the then-new रिपब्लिकन Party ) considered that the second ruling was not binding precedent, but mere dictum.
The युक्तिसंगत of the परम् अदालत regarding the jurisdictional सत्ताधारी implied कि लोगों of अफ़्रीकी descent ( both slave and free ) were not protected by the Constitution and were not U.S. citizens.
Since passage of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, both rulings are superseded और no longer मान्य यही.
Nonetheless, the case retains historical significance as it is widely regarded as the worst निर्णय कभी बना by the परम् अदालत.
The opinion of the अदालत, लिखा by मुख्य इंसाफ रोजर B. taney, stirred debate.
The decision was 7–2, and every इंसाफ besides taney लिखा a पृथक concurrence or dissent.
For the first time since Marbury v. Madison, the अदालत आयोजित an अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस to be असंवैधानिक.
Dred Scott, an African-American slave, had पूछा a संयुक्त राज्य सर्किट अदालत to पुरस्कार उसे उसके स्वतंत्रता क्युकी he और उसके निपुण था resided in a राज्य ( इलिनोइस ) और a territory ( Wisconsin Territory ) where slavery had been banned.
Chief Justice Roger Taney, writing for the court, held that Scott, as a person of African ancestry, was नहीं a नागरिक of the संयुक्त राज्य और इसलिए था no सही to sue in federal court.
This holding was contrary to the practice of numerous states at the time, particularly Free राज्य, जहाँ फ़्री अश्वेतों किया in फैक्ट आनंद the अधिकारों of नागरिकों, ऐसे as the सही to vote और थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर.
In what is sometimes considered mere obiter dictum, the Court गई on to थाम कि कॉंग्रेस था no प्राधिकार to prohibit गुलामी in संघीय territories क्युकी स्लेव हैं निजी प्रॉपर्टी और the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution protects property owners against deprivation of their property without due process of law.
In reaching this decision, Taney had hoped to settle the growing विवाद surrounding गुलामी in the संयुक्त राज्य, लकिन it था the विपरीत प्रभाव.
The decision was fiercely debated आरपार the देश, as शायद बेहतरीन सरंचनाओं by the lincoln–douglas debates of 1858.
Abraham Lincoln, the second-ever Republican nominee लिये अध्यक्ष, थी समर्थ to जीत the अध्यक्षीय चुनाव in 1860 ; the stopping of the further expansion of slavery was a key Republican party plank.
the निर्णय निभाई an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in the समय of राज्य secession and the Civil War, although it is extreme to say the decision `` caused '' the war.
The decision is acknowledged for the influential role it played in altering the national political landscape : it is credited साथ शुभारंभ अब्राहम lincoln’s नेशनल राजनैतिक करियर और ultimately allowing लिये उसके चुनाव.
Although the Supreme Court has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott case, the Court stated in the Slaughter-House Cases that at least एक भाग of it था already महरूम overruled by the fourteenth amendment in 1868, जिससे begins by stating, `` सब व्यक्तियों born or देशीयकृत in the संयुक्त राज्य, और विषय to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. ''
To which the अदालत नोटd:
The first observation we have to make on this clause is, that it puts at rest both the questions जिससे we stated to have महरूम the विषय of मतभेद of opinion.
It declares कि व्यक्तियों may be नागरिकों of the संयुक्त राज्य बगैर लिहाज़ to उनके नागरिकता of a particular राज्य, और it overturns the Dred Scott decision by making all persons born within the United States and subject to its jurisdiction citizens of the United States.
There हैं दर्जनों of पड़ोस in Columbus, Ohio.
Some are hard to define, as they encompass large areas developed at different times—often साथ sub-neighborhoods भीतर उन्हें.
Borders can भी बदलें आधारित on लोकप्रिय समझना of the क्षेत्रफल, as well as the whims of the residents.
This article uses data from the Datasourcecolumbus Web site, spotcrime.com, hellocolumbus.com, as खूब as the विभिन्न कोलंबस क्षेत्रफल आयोग to define the various areas.
excerpts और किनारा सूचना are drawn directly from the main articles.
A biologist is a वैज्ञानिक जो अध्ययन living organisms and their relationship to their environment.
biologists शामिल in मौलिक शोध attempt to discover underlying mechanisms that govern how organisms work.
Biologists involved in applied research attempt to develop or improve चिकित्सा, औद्योगिक or agricultural processes.
Martinus विलेम beijerinck, a वनस्पतिशास्त्री and microbiologist
Base कूद इससे a चट्टान in a wingsuit.
BASE jumping, also sometimes written as b.a.s.e. कूद, is an कार्यकलाप जहाँ भागीदार jump from fixed objects and use a parachute to break their fall.
`` BASE '' is an एक्रोनिम कि स्टैंड लिये चार श्रेणी of फिक्स्ड वस्तुएँ इससे जिससे एक can जम्प : इमारतें, antennas, spans ( bridges ), and earth ( cliffs ).
The British Shorthair is a domesticated बिल्ली जिनकी सुविधाएँ make it a popular breed in cat shows.
It has been the most popular breed of cat पंजीकृत by the uk 's शासी परिषद of the बिल्ली फैंसी ( gccf ) since 2001, when it overtook the Persian breed.
The USA Basketball Men 's Senior National Team, commonly known as the United राज्य मेन 's नेशनल बास्केट टोली, represents the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका in अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन 's basketball.
The USA is the most successful team in international प्रतियोगिता, जीतना medals in सब सत्रह ओलम्पिक tournaments it रै डाला, coming away with fourteen golds.
Two of its gold medal-winning squads were inducted to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame as teams in August 2010—the 1960 team, which featured six Hall of famers ( 4 खिलाड़ी, 2 कोच ), और the 1992 `` सपना Team '', featuring 14 Hall of Famers ( 11 players, 3 coaches ).
The United राज्य is फिलहाल क्रमित पहला in the FIBA World Rankings.
Traditionally रचित of amateur खिलाड़ी, a 1989 नियम बदलें by fiba अनुमत USA Basketball to field teams with professional players.
The first such टोली, ज्ञात as the `` सपना टोली '', जीती the सुनहरा पदक at the 1992 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक in बार्सिलोना, Spain, playing in the final against Croatia.
With the introduction of पेशेवर, the टोली थी समर्थ to चिंगारी a दूसरी run of dominance after capturing only a bronze medal in 1988.
A team of पेशेवर खिलाड़ी competed at the 1994 fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप, finishing first.
In 1996, 2000, 2008, और 2012 the यूएसए again captured gold medals.
Facing increased प्रतियोगिता, the यूएसए विफल to जीत a पदक at the 2002 FIBA World Championship, finishing sixth.
The 2004 Summer Olympic team lost three games on its way to a bronze medal, a record that represented अधिक नुकसान in a सिंगल साल than the देश 's ओलम्पिक टीमों था suffered in सब पिछला olympiads combined.
Determined to put an end to these असफलताओं, यूएसए बास्केट initiated a long-term प्रोजेक्ट aimed at creating better, more cohesive teams.
The USA won its first seven games at the 2006 FIBA World Championship in जापानी पहले खोने विरूद्ध यूनानियों in the semi-finals, समाप्ति the प्रतियोगिता साथ the कांस्य medal.
The USA won gold two years later, though, at the 2008 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक साथ a dominant performance.
This success was followed up at the 2010 FIBA World Championship, where despite fielding a roster featuring no players from the 2008 ओलम्पिक टोली, the यूएसए किया नहीं खोना a सिंगल खेल en रूट to defeating host Turkey for the gold medal.
The USA continued this streak of दबदबा by going अपराजित और capturing gold once more at the 2012 Summer Olympics.
The स्टीलर्स सुपर कटोरी xl ring
Joe theismann 's सुपर कटोरी रिंग ( right )
The Super Bowl ring is an पुरस्कार in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग दिए to the विजेता of the लीग 's सालाना World Championship game, the Super Bowl.
चूंकि तभी एक विंस लोम्बार्डी ट्रॉफी is awarded to the टोली ( स्वामित्व ) itself, the Super Bowl ring offers a collectible memento for the actual players and team members to keep for themselves to symbolize the victory.
Image showing the six most आम speleothems साथ लेबल्स.
to दृश्य लेबल्स.
the डायन 's उंगली in the Carlsbad Caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the Greek σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês, इससे σταλαγμίας - stalagmias, `` छोड़ने, trickling '' ) is a प्रकार of speleothem कि उदय इससे the मंजिल of a चूना गुफा due to the टपकता of mineralized solutions and the deposition of calcium carbonate.
This stalagmite formation occurs तभी अंतर्गत निश्चित ph conditions within the underground cavern.
The corresponding formation on the छत of a गुफा is ज्ञात as a stalactite.
If ये formations grow साथ, the result is known as a column.
The Hall of दिग्गज in the carlsbad caverns
Stalagmites should normally not be touched, since the rock buildup is formed by minerals precipitating out of the water solution onto the old surface ; skin oils can alter the सतह जहाँ the खनिज जल होगा चिपकी, यूँ affecting the विकास of the formation.
Oils and dirt from human contact can also stain the formation and बदलें इसके रंग permanently.
Similar structures can also form in lava tubes, संबद्ध साथ कुछ प्रकार of lavacicles, हालांकि the यांत्रिकी of formation is very different.
Stalactites and stalagmites can also form on concrete ceilings and floors, हालांकि वे रूप much अधिक rapidly वहीँ than in the natural cave environment.
The largest stalagmite in the संसार is ऊँची और is स्तिथ in the गुफा of Cueva Martin Infierno, Cuba.
In the Zagros Mountains of south Iran, approximately from the ancient city of Bishapur, in the shapur गुफा on the चौथी of पाँच बरामदा स्टैंड the 3rd सदी CE statue of Shapur I, second ruler of the Sassanid Empire.
The statue, carved इससे एक stalagmite, is nearly high.
How I मिले अपना माँ is an अमरीकी sitcom कि premiered on CBS on September 19, 2005.
the दिखाएँ थी निर्मित by क्रेग Thomas and Carter Bays.
How I Met Your Mother is framed by the year 2030, when Ted Mosby ( voiced by Bob Saget ) gathers his daughter ( lyndsy fonseca ) और बेटे ( दाउद henrie ) to बताना उन्हें the स्टोरी of कैसा he मिले उनके माँ.
We flashback to where it begins in 2005 with Ted Mosby ( Josh Radnor ) as a single, 27-year-old वास्तु जीना साथ उसके दो बेहतरीन मित्रों इससे wesleyan विश्वविद्यालयों, मार्शल eriksen ( जेसन सेगल ), a विधि छात्र, और लिली एल्ड्रिन ( alyson हनिंगन ), a kindergarten teacher, who have been dating for almost nine years when Marshall proposes.
Their सगाई कल्याणकारी टेड to सोचो परिचय ढूंढना उसके अपना आत्मा mate, much to the disgust of उसके dost बार्नी Stinson ( Neil Patrick Harris ), a womanizer with an unnamed corporate job.
And thus, Ted begins his ढूंढें लिये उसके पूर्ण mate, और meets रोबिन scherbatsky ( कोबी स्मल्डर्स ), जिसको he also befriends.
The 100th episode of How I Met Your माँ aired on जनवरी 11, 2010.
On December 21, 2012, the श्रेणी was renewed for a ninth season.
On January 30, 2013, it थी घोषित कि ऋतु 9 होगा be इसके final season.
Gringo (,, ) is a slang स्पेनी और पुर्तगाली शब्द प्रयुक्त in ibero-america, to denote foreigners, often from the United States.
The term can be applied to किसी जो is दरअसल a foreigner, or it can denote a दमदार संघ or assimilation into foreign ( particularly US ) society and culture.
in स्पेनी it करता नहीं have a negative connotation.
रोजर axtell, a सफर तहज़ीब विशेषज्ञ, टीप कि `` [ t ] he word gringo is not necessarily a bad word.
It is slang but is अपमानजनक तभी in इसके उपयोग और context. ''
The word was used in Spain long before it crossed the अटलांटिक to denote विदेशी, non-native अध्यक्षों of Spanish.
The great white shark, carcharodon carcharias, भी ज्ञात as the ग्रेट श्वेत, श्वेत सूचक, श्वेत शार्क, or श्वेत मौत, is a species of large lamniform shark which can be found in the coastal surface waters of all the major oceans.
The great white shark is mainly known for its size, with the largest individuals known to have approached or exceeded in लंबाई, और in वज़न.
This shark पहुँच इसके परिपक्वता around 15 सालो of आयु और can have a life span of over 30 years.
The ग्रेट श्वेत शार्क is arguably the संसार 's largest ज्ञात extant macropredatory fish, and is one of the primary predators of marine mammals.
It is also ज्ञात to शिकार upon a किस्में of other marine animals, including fish and seabirds.
It is the only known surviving species of its genus carcharodon, और is क्रमित पहला in having the most attacks on humans.
The IUCN list the great श्वेत शार्क as a vulnerable प्रजाति, while it is included in Appendix II of CITES.
The bestselling novel जबड़े by पीटर benchley और the subsequent ब्लॉकबस्टर फिल्मी by स्टीवन स्पिलबर्ग depicted the great white shark as a `` ferocious man eater ``.
In वास्तविकता, इंसानो हैं नहीं the पसन्दीदा शिकार of the great white shark.
the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां हैं the सैन्य forces of the United States of America.
They consist of the फौज, नेवी, समुद्री corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard.
The U.S. has a strong tradition of civilian कंट्रोल of the सैन्य.
The President is the military 's overall head, and helps form सैन्य नीति साथ the u.S. विभाग of रक्षा ( dod ), a संघीय कार्यपालिका विभाग, एक्टिंग as the प्रिंसिपल organ by which military policy is carried out.
The DoD is headed by the सचिव of रक्षा, who is a civilian and Cabinet member.
The Defense Secretary is दूसरी in the सैन्य 's कड़ी of कमांड, बस नीचे the अध्यक्ष, and serves as the principal assistant to the President in all DoD-related matters.
To निर्देशांक सैन्य कार्रवाई साथ कूटनीति, the अध्यक्ष रै an advisory National Security Council headed by a National Security Advisor.
Both the President and Secretary of Defense are advised by a seven-member संयुक्त chiefs of स्टाफ, जिससे शामिल the सिर of प्रत्येक of the रक्षा विभाग 's सेवा शाखाओं as well as the chief of the National Guard Bureau.
Leadership is provided by the Chairman of the संयुक्त chiefs of स्टाफ और the वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त Chiefs of Staff.
The Commandant of the Coast गार्ड is नहीं a सदस्य of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
All of the branches work together during operations and joint missions, under the एकीकृत combatant कमांड, अंतर्गत the प्राधिकार of the सचिव of रक्षा with the exception of the Coast Guard.
The Coast Guard falls under the administration of the विभाग of मातृभूमि सुरक्षा और receives इसके operational orders from the Secretary of Homeland Security.
The coast गार्ड may be transferred to the विभाग of the Navy by the President or Congress during a time of war.
All five armed services are among the seven uniformed services of the United States ; the others are the U.S. Public Health Service commissioned corps और the नेशनल oceanic और वायुमंडलीय प्रशासन Commissioned Corps.
इससे the समय of इसके inception, the सैन्य निभाई a निर्णायक भूमिका in the history of the United States.
A sense of national unity and identity was forged as a परिणाम of विजय in the पहला barbary युद्ध और the Second Barbary War.
Even so, the Founders were suspicious of a permanent military force and not until the outbreak of संसार युद्ध ii किया a विशाल खड़ा फौज become officially established.
The National Security Act of 1947, adopted following World War II and during the Cold War 's onset, created the आधुनिक u.S. सैन्य फ्रेमवर्क ; the अधिनियम मिलाया previously cabinet-level विभाग of युद्ध और the विभाग of the नेवी into the नेशनल सैन्य Establishment ( renamed the Department of Defense in 1949 ), headed by the Secretary of Defense ; and created the Department of the Air Force and National Security Council.
The U.S. सैन्य is एक of the largest militaries in terms of number of personnel.
It draws इसके जनशक्ति इससे a विशाल पूल of सशुल्क स्वयंसेवक ; हालांकि conscription रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in the past in various times of both war and peace, it has not been used since 1972.
As of 2013, the U.S. spends परिचय $ 554.2 अरब annually to निधि इसके सैन्य शक्तियां, और appropriates लगभग $ 88.5 अरब to निधि विदेशी Contingency Operations.
Put together, the U.S. constitutes roughly 43 प्रतिशत of the संसार 's military expenditures.
The U.S. Armed Forces as a whole possess large quantities of advanced and शक्तिशाली उपकरण, साथ साथ फैली अवस्थिति of शक्तियां around the संसार, giving उन्हें significant capabilities in both defense and power projection.
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate एक 's राय और विचार using एक 's देह और प्रॉपर्टी to anyone जो is willing to receive them.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, लकिन शामिल कोई अधिनियम of seeking, receiving and imparting information or ideas, regardless of the medium used.
In practice, the right to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country and the right is commonly subject to limitations, as with libel, slander, obscenity, sedition ( सहित, लिये उदाहरण inciting जातीय द्वेष ), कापीराइट उल्लंघन, रहस्योद्घाटन of सूचना कि is वर्गीकृत or वरना.
The right to freedom of expression is पहचाना as a इंसान सही अंतर्गत आलेख 19 of the सार्वभौमिक घोषणा of इंसान अधिकारों और पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय इंसान अधिकारों law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right shall include freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of सब kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in लिखने or in छपाई, in the रूप of art, or through any other media of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and responsibilities `` and may `` therefore be subject to certain restrictions '' when जरुरी `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or प्रतिष्ठा of अन्य '' or `` [ f ] or the सुरक्षा of नेशनल सुरक्षा or of पब्लिक अनुक्रम ( अनुक्रम पब्लिक ), or of पब्लिक health or morals ''.
Freedom of वाक may be legally curtailed in कुछ धार्मिक विधिक प्रणालियों और in धर्मनिरपेक्ष jurisdictions जहाँ it is मिला to कारण धार्मिक offense, such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006.
The Big Bang सिद्धान्त लोगो.
The Big Bang Theory is an अमरीकी कॉमेडी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित और कार्यपालिका produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady.
Like the name of the series itself, साथ the एक्सेप्शन of the पहला episode— '' पायलट '' —episode शीर्षक of the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त सदा प्रारंभ साथ `` The '' and resemble the name of a scientific principle, theory or experiment, whimsically referencing a plot point or quirk.
, 133 एपीसोड have aired.
the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त has been renewed for a seventh season.
Dwight David `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( सुनाया, ; अक्तूबर 14, 1890 – कूच 28, 1969 ) थी the 34th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 1953 जबतक 1961.
He had previously been a five-star general in the United States Army during World War II and served as Supreme Commander of the अलाइड शक्तियां in यूरोपीय ; he था जिम्मेदारी लिये नियोजन और supervising the आक्रमण of उत्तर अफ़्रीकी in आपरेशन मशाल in 1942–43 and the successful invasion of France and Germany in 1944–45 from the Western Front.
In 1951, he became the first परम् कमांडर of नाटो.
Eisenhower was of Pennsylvania Dutch ancestry and was reared in a large family in कान्सास by अभिभावक साथ a मजबूत कार्य ethic और धार्मिक background.
As one of six sons, he was conditioned by a प्रतिस्पर्धी माहौल जिससे instilled self-reliance.
He attended and graduated from West पाइंट और बाद शादीशुदा और था two sons.
After World युद्ध ii, आइज़नहावर परोसा as फौज मुख्य of स्टाफ अंतर्गत अध्यक्ष Harry S. Truman, then assumed the post of President at Columbia University.
Eisenhower entered the 1952 presidential race as a Republican to काउंटर the non-interventionism of सीनेटर रॉबर्ट A. taft और to crusade विरूद्ध `` Communism, Korea and corruption ''.
He won by a भूस्खलन, defeating डेमोक्रेट adlai stevenson and ending two decades of the New Deal Coalition.
In the first year of his प्रेसिडेंसी, आइज़नहावर अपदस्थ the नेता of इरान in the 1953 Iranian coup d'état and used nuclear threats to conclude the Korean War with China.
His New Look policy of nuclear deterrence gave priority to inexpensive nuclear weapons while reducing the funding लिये conventional सैन्य शक्तियां ; the लक्ष्य थी to रखना दबाव on the सोवियत संघ and reduce federal deficits.
In 1954, Eisenhower first articulated the domino theory in his वर्णन of the threat प्रस्तुत by the spread of communism.
The Congress agreed to his request in 1955 for the Formosa रेज़ोल्यूशन, जिससे सक्रिय उसे to prevent चाइनीज कम्युनिस्ट आक्रामकता विरूद्ध चाइनीज nationalists and established the U.S. policy of defending Taiwan.
When the Soviets launched sputnik in 1957, he था to खेल catch-up in the space race.
Eisenhower forced Israel, the UK, and France to end उनके आक्रमण of मिश्र दौरान the स्वेज संकट of 1956.
In 1958, he sent 15,000 US troops to Lebanon to prevent the pro-western सरकारी इससे गिरना to a Nasser -inspired revolution.
Near the end of his term, his efforts to set up a समिट बैठक साथ the soviets collapsed क्युकी of the U-2 incident.
On the domestic सामने, he covertly opposed जोसेफ मैकार्थी और contributed to the समाप्त of mccarthyism by खुलकर invoking the modern expanded version of executive privilege.
He वरना बाएँ सबसे राजनैतिक कार्यकलाप to his Vice President, Richard Nixon.
He थी a मॉडरेट रूढ़िवादी जो जारी New Deal agencies and expanded Social Security.
Among his enduring नवप्रवर्तनों, he शुभारम्भ the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रणाली ; the रक्षा उन्नत शोध प्रोजेक्ट एजेंसी ( darpa ), जिससे led to the अंतरजाल, among अनेक invaluable आउटपुट ; the नेशनल aeronautics और स्पेस प्रशासन ( नासा ), ड्राइविंग peaceful discovery in space ; the establishment of strong science education via the National Defense Education Act ; and encouraging peaceful use of nuclear power via amendments to the Atomic Energy Act.
In social policy, he sent federal troops to छोटी चट्टान, अरकंसास, लिये the पहला समय चूंकि पुनर्निर्माण to enforce संघीय अदालत आदेश to desegregate public schools.
He also signed civil rights विधान in 1957 और 1960 to protect the right to vote.
He implemented desegregation of the armed शक्तियां in दो सालो और बना पाँच नियुक्ति to the Supreme Court.
He was the first term-limited अध्यक्ष in accordance साथ the 22nd Amendment.
Eisenhower 's two terms were peaceful ones for the सबसे भाग और देखी considerable आर्थिक समृद्धि मगर लिये a शार्प मंदी in 1958–59.
आइज़नहावर is प्रायः क्रमित अत्यधिक among the U.S. Presidents.
Air Force One is the official air traffic कंट्रोल कॉल चिह्न of a संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स वायुयान carrying the President of the United States.
In common parlance the term refers to those Air Force aircraft specifically designed, निर्मित, और प्रयुक्त लिये the purpose of transporting the president.
The अध्यक्षीय वायुयान is a prominent symbol of the American presidency and its power.
The विचार of designating विशिष्ट सैन्य वायुयान to हस्तांतरण the अध्यक्ष arose in 1943, जब officials of the संयुक्त राज्य फौज एयर शक्तियां – the predecessor to the U.S. Air Force – became concerned with relying on commercial airlines to transport the President.
A C-87 Liberator एक्स्प्रेस थी reconfigured लिये उपयोग as a अध्यक्षीय हस्तांतरण ; however, it was rejected by the Secret Service amid concerns over the aircraft 's safety record.
A C-54 skymaster थी तब परिवर्तित लिये अध्यक्षीय उपयोग ; इस aircraft, dubbed the Sacred Cow, transported President Franklin D. Roosevelt to the Yalta Conference in February 1945, and was subsequently used for another two years by President Harry S. Truman.
The `` Air Force One '' call sign was created बाद a 1953 घटना दौरान जिससे a उड़ान carrying अध्यक्ष ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर डाला the वही airspace as a commercial airline flight using the same call sign.
Several aircraft have been used as Air Force One since the creation of the presidential fleet, including two Boeing 707s introduced in the 1960s and 1970s, क्रमशः ; चूंकि 1990, the अध्यक्षीय बेड़े रै consisted of दो बोइंग vc-25as – specifically विन्यस्त, अत्यधिक customized बोइंग 747-200b श्रेणी aircraft.
the एयर फ़ोर्स is looking into replacing the दो vc-25 वायुयान with three replacement aircraft beginning in 2017.
A wedding anniversary is the वर्षगांठ of the date a wedding took place.
परंपरागत names मौजूद लिये सबसे of उन्हें : लिये उदाहरण, 50 सालो of marriage is called a `` golden wedding anniversary '' or simply a `` golden anniversary ''.
A scanner साथ duplexing स्वचालित Document Feeder.
In multifunction or all-in-one printers, fax machines, photocopiers and scanners, an automatic document feeder or adf is a विशेषता जिससे takes अनेक पृष्ठों और फ़ीड्स the पेपर एक पेज at a समय into a स्कैनर or कॉपियर, allowing the उपयोक्ता to स्कैन, और thereby नक़ल, छपाई, or fax, multiple-page documents without having to manually replace each page.
Most copiers allow स्कैनिंग on the फ्लैटबेड or platen ( the `` glass '' ) or through a document feeder.
The vast majority of fax machines have an adf, allowing the unattended sending of multi-page faxes.
Due to the ubiquity of ADF in fax machines, some fax machine स्वामी उपयोग the फैक्स यंत्र as a स्कैनर, faxing multi-page दस्तावेज़ to themselves.
Document feeders are described by speed, in pages per minute or ppm, and क्षमता, प्रायः in a दायरा इससे 10 चादरें to 200.
There are two kinds of document feeders capable of two-sided ( duplex ) scanning : a reversing automatic document फीडर or radf scans एक पक्ष of a पेज, तब flips it और scans the अन्य पक्ष.
A duplexing स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर or dadf scans both sides in one pass.
the लाभ of the dadf is तेज़ speed for two-sided originals.
RADFs and DADFs are rated in बिंब प्रति मिनट ( ipm ), the number of sides they can scan each minute.
Fair Park is a recreational और शैक्षणिक जटिल located in Dallas, Texas ( USA ).
The जटिल is पंजीकृत as a डलास लैंडमार्क, नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क and is home to nine museums, six performance facilities, a lagoon, and the largest Ferris wheel in North America.
अनेक of the इमारतें on the जटिल यहूद constructed लिये the टेक्सास centennial Exposition in 1936 which drew over six million visitors.
Most of the buildings built for the exposition स्टिल जीवित और it is पहचाना as a significant उदाहरण of Art Deco architecture.
Fair पार्क रै महरूम designated a ग्रेट प्लेस in America by the American Planning Association.
The American नियोजन संघ ( apa ) “is an स्वतंत्र, not-for-profit शैक्षणिक organization that provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
The Great Places in American program helps to celebrate क्षेत्रों साथ “exemplary अक्षर, विशेषता, और planning.”
Being designated as a Great प्लेस in अमेरिका, मेला पार्क थी एक of only ten cities chosen in 2011.
San Jose ( ; Spanish : St. Joseph ) is the third-largest city in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, the tenth-largest in the u.S., और the काउंटी सीट of Santa Clara County which is located at the southern end of San Francisco Bay.
San Jose is the largest city within Silicon Valley, which is a प्रमुख घटक of the वृहद सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल, a प्रदेश of 8.4 लाख लोगों और the पांचवां largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( CSA ) in the United States.
It is the largest नगर in उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
San Jose was founded on November 29, 1777, as El Pueblo de San José de Guadalupe, the first civilian कस्बा in the स्पेनी उपनिवेश of नुएवा कैलिफ़ोर्निया, जिससे बाद became alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
The नगर परोसा as a खेती जातियाँ to support Spanish military installations at San Francisco and Monterey.
When California gained statehood in 1850, सैन जोस परोसा as इसके first capital.
बाद अधिक than 150 सालो as a छोटी खेती नगर, सैन जोस और the surrounding सांता क्लारा Valley became the last ( and largest ) contiguous area of undeveloped land surrounding the San Francisco Bay.
San Jose अनुभवी increased माँग लिये आवास इससे सैनिको और veterans returning from World War II.
San Jose then जारी इसके आक्रामक विस्तार during the 1950s and 1960s by annexing more land area.
The rapid growth of the high-technology और इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स उद्योग further त्वरित the परिवर्तन इससे an agricultural बीच, to an urbanized metropolitan area.
By the 1990s, San जोस 's स्थान भीतर the booming लोकल प्रौद्योगिकी industry earned the city its nickname, Capital of Silicon Valley.
San Jose now maintains global city status and is the largest city in the San फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल in शर्तें of जनसांख्यिकी, जमीन क्षेत्रफल, and industrial development.
The U.S. Census Bureau reported the जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर to be 945,942 as of the 2010 Census.
As of April 2013, the अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of सैन जोस थी 984,000.
San Jose, along with the Santa Clara Valley, experienced about half a century of spectacular suburban sprawl, साथ विशेषताएँ of तीव्र शहरी समान to the Los Angeles area of Southern California.
The city has taken definite कदम to avoid बनने `` l.A. North ''.
However, the sprawl in सैन जोस is बदतर than in लॉस एंजिल्स by उपायों ऐसे as जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व and public transit safety, investment, and ridership.
Europe depicted by Antwerp cartographer अब्राहम ortelius in 1595
The history of Europe covers the people inhabiting the European continent since it was पहला आबादी in प्रागैतिहासिक टाइम्स to उपस्थित, साथ the पहला होमो sapiens arriving between 45,000 और 25,000 BC.
The earliest settlers to Prehistoric यूरोपीय आए दौरान the paleolithic era.
The arrival of agriculture around 7000 bc ushered in the पाषाणकालीन age.
Neolithic Europe lasted for 4000 years, अतिव्यापी साथ metal-using संस्कृतियों that gradually spread throughout the continent.
Technological advances during the प्रागैतिहासिक आयु tended to arrive इससे the मध्य East, spreading gradually to the northwest.
Some of the best-known सभ्यताओं of प्रागैतिहासिक यूरोपीय यहूद मिनोआई और माइसीनियाई, जिससे flourished during the Bronze Age until they collapsed in a short period of time around 1200 BC.
The period known as classical antiquity began साथ the वृद्धि of the city-states of प्राचीन Greece.
Greek influence पहुँचे इसके zenith अंतर्गत the expansive empire of Alexander the Great, spreading throughout Asia.
Northern and western Europe were वर्चस्व by the la tène संस्कृति, a precursor to the Celts.
Rome, a small city-state traditionally संस्थापित in 753 bc, होता grow to become the रोमन गणतंत्र in 509 bc और होता succeed Greek culture as the dominant Mediterranean civilization.
The events of the rule of जूलियस सीज़र led to reorganization of the Republic into the Roman Empire.
The empire was later divided by the emperor diocletian into the पश्चिमी और पूर्वी empires.
During the later years of the Roman Empire, the Germanic peoples of उत्तरी यूरोपीय grew in शक्ति और दोहराया हमले led to the पतन of the पश्चिमी रोमन साम्राज्य in ad 476, a तिथि जिससे traditionally marks the end of the classical period and the start of the Middle Ages.
During the Middle Ages, the Eastern रोमन साम्राज्य बच, हालांकि आधुनिक इतिहासकारों refer to इस state as the Byzantine Empire.
In Western Europe, Germanic peoples moved into positions of power in the remnants of the पूर्व पश्चिमी रोमन साम्राज्य और स्थापित kingdoms और empires of their own.
Of all of the Germanic peoples, the franks होता वृद्धि to a स्थिति of आधिपत्य over पश्चिमी यूरोपीय, the Frankish Empire reaching its peak under Charlemagne around AD 800.
Francia was divided into several parts ; West Francia would evolve into the किंगडम of फ़्रांस, जबकि ईस्ट francia होता evolve into the Holy Roman Empire, a precursor to modern Germany.
The British isles यहूद the साईट of अनेक large-scale migrations.
Native Celtic peoples had been marginalized during the period of Roman Britain, and when the Romans abandoned the British Isles during the 400s, waves of Germanic Anglo-Saxons migrated to southern ब्रिटेन और स्थापित a श्रेणी of क्षुद्र kingdoms in कया होता आखिरकार develop into the किंगडम of इंग्लैण्ड by ad 927.
During this काल, the किंगडम of कैंडल और किंगडम of हंगेरियाई ( 1000–1945 ) were organized as well.
The Viking Age, a period of migrations of scandinavian peoples, वर्चस्व the काल इससे the late 700s to the middle 1000s.
Chief among the Viking states was the Empire of cnut the ग्रेट, a डैनिश नेता जो होता become king of England, Denmark, and Norway.
The Normans, a Viking people who settled in उत्तरी फ़्रांस और संस्थापित the duchy of normandy, होता have a significant प्रभाव on अनेक भाग of यूरोपीय, इससे the नॉर्मन conquest of England to Southern Italy and Sicily.
Another Scandinavian people, the rus ' लोगों, होता go on to मिला kievan rus ', an early state which was a precursor for the modern country of Russia.
As the Viking Age drew to a close, the period known as the Crusades, a series of religiously-motivated सैन्य रिझाने originally intended to लाओ the levant back into Christian rule, began.
Several जेहादी राज्य यहूद संस्थापित in the eastern Mediterranean.
These were all short-lived.
the crusaders होता have a profound impact on many parts of Europe.
Their Sack of Constantinople in 1204 brought an abrupt समाप्त to the बीज़ान्टिन साम्राज्य.
Extinct dog breeds is a compilation of dog breeds कि have become विलुप्त.
Wii Speak is a माइक्रोफोन accessory लिये निन्टेंडो 's Wii video game console.
Connected to the console via USB, the device can be placed near the वीडियो प्रदर्शक, allowing आवाज़ गपशप to be conducted साथ the entire room.
The यंत्र सुविधाएँ an led to indicate when the microphone is active.
Wii Speak was घोषित at निन्टेंडो 's 2008 E3 media briefing.
It was released separately and bundled साथ एनिमल क्रासिंग : नगर लोक on नवम्बर 16, 2008, in North America, and was released on December 5, 2008, in Europe.
The Wii Speak accessory is succeeded by the अंतःस्थापित माइक्रोफोन on the वी u 's GamePad controller.
Nissan बुद्धिमान Key®
A smart key is an electronic access and प्राधिकरण प्रणाली जिससे is उपलब्धियाँ as an विकल्प or standard in several cars.
it थी पहला विकसित by siemens in the mid-1990s और introduced by mercedes-benz अंतर्गत the नाम `` keyless go '' in 1998 on the W220 S-Class following its design patent filed by Daimler-Benz on May 17, 1997.
univisión ( ) is a spanish-language टेलीविज़न network in the United States.
The संजाल is primarily समर्पित लिये लैटिन अमरीकी families who reside in the United States.
It has the largest audience of Spanish-language television दर्शक in the संसार according to nielsen ratings.
Randy Falco, ( CEO as of जून 29, 2011 ) coo, रै महरूम in चार्ज of the कम्पनी चूंकि the departure of Univision Communications president and CEO Joe Uva in April 2010.
In हाल सालो the संजाल रै पहुँचे पैरिटी साथ the u.S. 's पाँच प्रमुख english-language टेलीविज़न संजाल, और is प्रायः a दमदार पांचवां, outranking The CW, with some fourth-place weekly placings, and as of 2012, even first place rankings for individual programs over all five English networks due to the network 's consistent schedule of new telenovelas all 52 weeks of the year.
Univisión is headquartered in नई यॉर्क, और रै इसके प्रमुख studios, उत्पादन सुविधाएं, and operations in Doral, Florida, a suburb of Miami.
In 2009, another टेलीविज़न स्टुडियो थी घोषित, univision studios, to be built in Doral.
Univision is available on cable and satellite in most of the country, with local stations in over 50 markets with large Hispanic and Latino populations and a national cable network फीड वितरित in बाज़ार बगैर either the उपलब्धता or the माँग लिये a locally-based station.
Most of these stations air full local news and other local programming in addition to network shows, and in प्रमुख बाज़ार ऐसे as लॉस एंजिल्स, नई यॉर्क, और मियामी the लोकल newscasts carried by the संजाल 's owned-and-operated स्टेशन ( O & O ) stations are equally competitive with their English-language counterparts ratings-wise.
Univisión was acquired on March 29, 2007 by a consortium led by Haim Saban 's Saban पूंजी समूह ( जो था previously स्वामित्व the एंटिटी saban entertainment ), tpg पूंजी, l.P., विधाता इक्विटी साझेदार, Madison Dearborn Partners, and Thomas H. Lee Partners for $ 13.7 billion or $ 36.25 per share plus $ 1.4 billion in acquired debt.
The buyout बाएँ the कम्पनी साथ a कर्ज़ स्तर of बारह times its annual cash flow, which was twice the norm in buyouts done over the previous two years.
Artist 's धारणा of a आदिग्रह disk
The formation and of the Solar System is estimated to have begun 4.6 billion years ago साथ the गुरुत्वाकर्षक पतन of a छोटी भाग of a दानव आणविक cloud.
Most of the collapsing द्रव्यमान एकत्रित in the centre, forming the Sun, while the rest flattened into a protoplanetary disk out of which the planets, moons, asteroids, and other small Solar System bodies formed.
This widely accepted model, known as the nebular परिकल्पना, थी पहला विकसित in the 18th सदी by emanuel Swedenborg, Immanuel Kant, and Pierre-Simon Laplace.
Its subsequent development has interwoven a variety of वैज्ञानिक disciplines सहित खगोलशास्त्र, भौतिकी, भूविज्ञान, और planetary science.
Since the भोर of the स्पेस आयु in the 1950s और the डिस्कवरी of extrasolar ग्रह in the 1990s, the model has been both challenged and refined to account for new observations.
The सौर प्रणाली रै विकसित considerably since its initial formation.
Many moons have formed from circling discs of gas and dust around उनके जनक ग्रह, जबकि अन्य moons हैं विचार to have formed independently और बाद महरूम captured by their planets.
Still others, as the धरती 's चंद्रमा, may be the परिणाम of giant collisions.
Collisions between bodies have occurred continually up to the present day और have महरूम सेंट्रल to the एवोल्यूशन of the Solar System.
The positions of the ग्रह प्रायः shifted, and planets have switched places.
This planetary migration is now thought to have been responsible for much of the सौर प्रणाली 's जल्दी एवोल्यूशन.
In roughly 5 billion years, the Sun होगा कूल और विस्तार outward अनेक टाइम्स इसके वर्तमान व्यास ( बनने a रेड दानव ), पहले ढलाई बंद इसके बाहरी परतों as a planetary nebula and leaving behind a stellar remnant known as a white dwarf.
In the far distant future, the gravity of passing stars होगा धीरे reduce the सूर्य 's retinue of ग्रह.
Some planets will be नष्ट, अन्य ejected into interstellar space.
Ultimately, over the कोर्स of tens of अरबों of सालो, it is likely that the Sun will be left with none of the original bodies in orbit around it.
The Trial ( Kafka 's original जर्मनी शीर्षक :, बाद as, और ) is a अनोखा लिखा by फ्रांज काफ्का in 1914 and 1915 but not published until 1925.
One of Kafka 's best-known works, it tells the story of a man arrested and prosecuted by a remote, अभिगम्य प्राधिकार, साथ the प्रकृति of उसके अपराधों नाज़िल to neither उसे nor the reader.
Like Kafka 's other novels, The Trial was never completed, हालांकि it करता शामिल a अध्याय जिससे brings the story to an end.
Because of this there are certain inconsistencies जिससे मौजूद भीतर the अनोखा, ऐसे as disparities in timing in addition to other discontinuities in narration.
After Kafka 's death in 1924 his friend and साहित्यिक executor अधिकतम brod संपादित the टेक्स्ट लिये प्रकाशन by verlag Die Schmiede.
The असली पाण्डुलिपि is आयोजित at the संग्रहालय of आधुनिक साहित्य, Marbach am Neckar, Germany.
In 1999, the book was listed in le mondes 100 किताबे of the सदी और as no. 2 of the Best German Novels of the Twentieth Century.
Lisa Anne Loeb ( born कूच 11, 1968 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter and actress.
She launched her career in 1994 साथ the सोंग, `` रहो ( i छूटी तुम ) ``, जिससे was included in the film Reality Bites.
She was the पहला कलाकार to have a क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the संयुक्त States while not signed to a recording contract.
Her five studio CDs include her major label debut, the gold-selling Tails and इसके follow-up, the grammy-nominated, gold-selling Firecracker.
Loeb has also worked in फिल्मी, टेलीविज़न, voice-over work and children’s recordings.
Loeb has appeared in two television series, Dweezil & Lisa, a weekly culinary adventure for the Food संजाल और क्रमांक 1 सिंगल, a वास्तविकता दिखाएँ on the E !
Network in 2006 focused on her quest for love, कामयाबी, करियर, और परिवार.
Her children 's music includes the albums कैच the चंद्रमा ( 2003 ), और शिविर Lisa ( 2008 ).
Her first joint children 's किताब और एल्बम लिसा लोएब 's पगली sing-along : The Disappointing Pancake and Other Zany Songs was published in 2011.
In 2010 she संस्थापित the लिसा लोएब चश्मा संग्रहण, जिससे is आधारित on her own designs.
the कोट of बाहें of the State of New Jersey includes:
A शील्ड साथ तीन plows emblazoned, representative of New Jersey 's agricultural tradition.
A forward-facing नाईट 's helmet.
A horse 's head as the crest of the हेल्मेट.
The female आंकड़े स्वतंत्रता और ceres, प्रतिनिधि of the राज्य 's motto ( see next item ).
Liberty is holding a staff supporting a `` liberty cap `` ; ceres is पकड़कर an overflowing cornucopia.
The streamer at the foot of the emblem contains the State motto of नई जर्सी, `` स्वतंत्रता और समृद्धि '', और the साल of statehood, 1776.
it थी originally designed by पियरे यूजीन du Simitiere in 1777 and was modified slightly in 1928.
The seal is the सेंट्रल मोटिफ in the ध्वज of नई जर्सी and the Great Seal of the State of New Jersey.
The Coat of arms contains a घोड़ा 's head.
A helmet showing that New Jersey governs itself accordingly and three plows on a शील्ड referring to the राज्य 's कृषि परंपरा, giving it the nickname `` Garden State ''.
The two देवियाँ represent the राज्य motto, `` स्वतंत्रता और Prosperity ''.
Liberty is on the left.
She is holding a स्टाफ साथ a स्वतंत्रता कैप on it, और the शब्द स्वतंत्रता underneath her.
The देवी on the सही is ceres, goddess of agriculture.
She is पकड़कर a cornucopia साथ prosperity written below her.
According to the minutes of the New Jersey General Assembly for March 11, 1896, the date in जिससे the सभा officially स्वीकृत the ध्वज as the राज्य emblem, the buff रंग is due indirectly to जार्ज Washington, who had ordered on October 2, 1779, that the uniform coats of the New Jersey Continental Line be dark ( Jersey ) blue, with buff facings.
Buff-colored facings had until then been सुरक्षित तभी लिये उसके अपना वर्दी और those of अन्य Continental generals and their aides.
Then, on February 28, 1780, the Continental War Officers in फिलाडेल्फिया निर्देशित कि the वर्दी कोट facings of सब regiments यहूद to be the वही as the पृष्ठभूमि color of the regiments ' state flag.
The seal is described in New Jersey statute शीर्षक 52, §2-1:
`` We Can Work It Out '' is a सोंग by the बीटल्स, लिखा by पॉल mccartney and John Lennon.
It was released as a `` double A-sided `` single with `` Day tripper ``, the पहला समय दोनो पहलू of a सिंगल यहूद so designated in an आरंभिक release.
Both songs were recorded दौरान the रबर आत्मा सत्र.
The song is an उदाहरण of lennon–mccartney सहयोग at a गहराई कि happened तभी rarely बाद they wrote the hit singles of 1963.
This song, `` A Day in the Life ``, `` Baby, You 're a Rich Man `` और `` i 've मिला a अहसास ``, हैं among the notable exceptions.
As a medical diagnosis, pedophilia or paedophilia is a psychiatric disorder in persons 16 years of age or older typically characterized by a primary or exclusive sexual interest toward prepubescent children ( generally आयु 11 सालो or younger, हालांकि विशिष्ट निदान मापदण्ड for the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ).
An adolescent who is 16 सालो of आयु or पुरानी जरूर be at तनिक पाँच सालो पुरानी than the prepubescent चाइल्ड पहले the attraction can be diagnosed as pedophilia.
the पद रै a दायरा of परिभाषाएं, as मिला in psychiatry, psychology, the vernacular, and law enforcement.
The International Classification of Diseases ( ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` विकार of वयस्क व्यक्तित्व और आचरण '' in जिससे वहीँ is a sexual preference for children of prepubertal or early pubertal age.
According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ), it is a paraphilia in जिससे वयस्कों or adolescents 16 सालो of आयु or पुरानी have तीव्र और तूल यौन प्रेरणाएं towards और कल्पनाओं परिचय prepubescent children that they have either acted on or which cause them distress or interpersonal difficulty.
In popular usage, pedophilia अर्थात् कोई यौन ब्याज in children or the अधिनियम of चाइल्ड यौन abuse, often termed `` pedophilic behavior ''.
For example, The American विरासत stedman 's चिकित्सा शब्दकोष राज्य, `` pedophilia is the अधिनियम or fantasy on the part of an adult of engaging in sexual activity with a child or children. ''
This common use application also extends to the यौन ब्याज in और यौन सम्पर्क साथ रोमिल or post-pubescent minors.
Researchers recommend that these imprecise uses be avoided because although people who commit child sexual abuse commonly exhibit the विकार, कुछ अपराधियों do नहीं मिलें the नैदानिक निदान मानकों लिये pedophilia and these standards pertain to prepubescents.
additionally, नहीं सब pedophiles दरअसल commit such abuse.
Pedophilia was first formally पहचाना और नामित in the late 19th century.
A significant राशि of शोध in the area has taken place since the 1980s.
Although mostly documented in men, there are also women who exhibit the disorder, and शोधकर्ताओं assume उपलब्धियाँ estimates underrepresent the सच्चा क्रमांक of female pedophiles.
No cure for pedophilia has been developed, but there are therapies that can reduce the incidence of a person committing चाइल्ड यौन abuse.
In the United States, following Kansas v. Hendricks, sex offenders जो हैं diagnosed साथ निश्चित दिमागी विकार, विशेषकर pedophilia, can be विषय to indefinite सिविल प्रतिबद्धता, अंतर्गत विभिन्न राज्य कानून ( generically पुकारा svp कानून ) और the संघीय आदम वाल्श चाइल्ड सुरक्षा and Safety Act of 2006.
At present, the exact causes of pedophilia have नहीं महरूम conclusively स्थापित.
Research suggests कि pedophilia may be correlated साथ अनेक अलग neurological abnormalities, and often co-exists with other personality disorders and psychological pathologies.
In the contexts of forensic psychology और विधि प्रवर्तन, a किस्में of typologies have महरूम सुझाया to categorize pedophiles according to behavior and motivations.
Julio César Chávez ( born जूलियो césar chávez gonzález on जुलाई 12, 1962 ) is a retired Mexican professional boxer.
Chávez is माना by अनेक लोगों लिये उनके खेल आंकडे the महानतम सेनानी ever to come out of Mexico.
He is a six-time world चैंपियन in तीन वज़न विभाजन, और लिये अनेक years he was considered one of the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world.
In a career that spanned over 25 years, Chávez won पाँच संसार शीर्षक in तीन वज़न विभाजन : wbc सुपर featherweight in 1984, wba lightweight in 1987, WBC Lightweight in 1988, WBC Light Welterweight in 1989, IBF Light Welterweight in 1990, and WBC Light Welterweight in 1994.
He holds रिकॉर्ड लिये सबसे कामयाब लगातार defenses of संसार शीर्षक ( 27 ), सबसे शीर्षक झगड़े ( 37 ), सबसे title-fight victories ( 31 ) और he is after Joe Louis with ( 23 ) for most title defenses won by knockout ( 21 ).
chávez भी रै the longest अपराजित streak in boxing history, 13 years.
His record was 89-0-1 going into his first loss to Frankie रान्डेल और था an 87 लड़ो जीत streak जबतक his `` draw '' with Whitaker.
Julio César Chávez was known for his outstanding punching शक्ति, विनाशकारी देह आक्रमण, remarkably दमदार chin और the relentless stalking of his opponents.
He बाँधने # 24 on ईएसपीएन 's 50 महानतम मुक्केबाज Of All Time.
On December 7, 2010, he was inducted in the prestigious अंतरराष्ट्रीय मुक्केबाज़ी हॉल of कीर्ति लिये the Class of 2011.
He is the father of prospect Omar Chávez and पूर्व wbc middleweight चैंपियन जूलियो césar chávez, Jr.
`` Selektion `` on the judenrampe, auschwitz, may/june 1944.
to be भेजा to the सही meant स्लेव labor ; to the left, the gas chamber.
This चित्र shows the आगमन of हंगेरियाई यहूदियों इससे carpatho-ruthenia, many of them from the Berehov ghetto.
The फ़ोटोग्राफ़र थी अर्नस्ट hofmann or बर्नहार्ड Walter of the SS. Image courtesy of Yad Vashem
The Holocaust ( from the Greek ' : hólos, `` whole '' and kaustós, `` burnt '' ) also known as the Shoah ( Hebrew :, HaShoah, `` catastrophe '' ; Yiddish :, Churben or Hurban, from the Hebrew for `` destruction '' ), was the mass murder or नरसंहार of लगभग छह लाख यहूदियों दौरान संसार युद्ध ii, a कार्यक्रम of व्यवस्थित state-sponsored हत्या by नाजी जर्मनी, led by एडोल्फ हिटलर and the Nazi Party, throughout German-occupied territory.
Of the nine million Jews who था resided in यूरोपीय पहले the holocaust, approximately two-thirds were killed.
Over one million Jewish children were killed in the holocaust, as यहूद लगभग दो लाख यहूदी women and three million Jewish men.
A network of over 40,000 सुविधाएं in जर्मनी और german-occupied territory यहूद used to concentrate, hold, and kill Jews and other victims.
Some scholars argue that the mass murder of the Romani and people with disabilities should be included in the definition, and some use the common noun `` holocaust '' to describe अन्य नाजी द्रव्यमान हत्याएं, सहित those of सोवियत बंदियों of युद्ध, पॉलिश और सोवियत नागरिकों, and homosexuals.
Recent estimates based on figures प्राप्त चूंकि the पतन of the सोवियत संघ indicates कुछ टेन to ग्यारह लाख नागरिकों और बंदियों of युद्ध were intentionally murdered by the Nazi regime.
The persecution और नरसंहार यहूद carried out in stages.
Various laws to remove the यहूदियों इससे सिविल समाज, सबसे prominently the nuremberg Laws, were enacted in Germany years before the outbreak of World War II.
Concentration camps were established in which inmates यहूद वशीभूत to स्लेव मजदूर जबतक वे died of exhaustion or disease.
Where Germany conquered new territory in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, specialized इकाई पुकारा einsatzgruppen murdered Jews and political opponents in mass shootings.
The occupiers required Jews and Romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos पहले होने transported by भाड़ा ट्रैन to extermination शिविरों जहाँ, if वे बच the यात्रा, सबसे यहूद systematically killed in gas chambers.
Every arm of Germany 's अफसरशाही थी शामिल in the लोजिस्टिक्स कि led to the genocides, turning the तीसरा Reich into what one Holocaust scholar has called `` a genocidal state ''.
4-H in the United States is a youth संगठन administered by the नेशनल संस्थान of खाना और कृषि of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ), with the mission of `` engaging youth to reach their fullest potential while advancing the field of youth development. ''
the नाम represents चार निजी development areas of focus for the organization : head, heart, hands, and health.
The organization has over 6.5 लाख सदस्यों in the संयुक्त राज्य, इससे आयु पाँच to twenty-one, in लगभग 90,000 clubs.
The goal of 4-H is to develop citizenship, leadership, जिम्मेदारी और जीवन कौशल of युवावस्था through experiential सीखना कार्यक्रम and a positive youth development approach.
Though typically thought of as an agriculturally focused organization as a परिणाम of इसके इतिहास, 4-h आज focuses on नागरिकता, स्वस्थ जीना, science, engineering, and technology programs.
Today, 4-H and सम्बन्धित कार्यक्रम मौजूद in over अस्सी देशों around the world ; the organization and administration varies from country to country.
Each of these programs operates independently, but cooperatively through अंतरराष्ट्रीय exchanges, वैश्विक शिक्षा कार्यक्रम, और communications.
the 4-h motto is `` to मेक the बेहतरीन better '', while its slogan is `` Learn by doing '' ( sometimes written as `` Learn to do by doing '' ).
The national flag of Chile, consists of two unequal horizontal bands of white and red and a ब्लू वर्गाकार the वही ऊँचाई as the श्वेत बैंड in the कैण्टन, जिससे bears a श्वेत five-pointed स्टार in the center.
It थी अपनाया on 18 October 1817.
The chilean ध्वज is भी ज्ञात in स्पेनी as La Estrella Solitaria ( The Lone Star ).
The star represents a guide to progress and honor ; blue symbolizes the sky and the Pacific Ocean, white is for the snow-covered andes, और रेड स्टैंड लिये the रक्त spilled to achieve independence.
According to the epic poem La Araucana, the रंगों यहूद निकला इससे those इससे the ध्वज flown by the Mapuche during the Arauco War.
`` Flag Day '' is held each year on the नवीं of जुलाई to commemorate the 77 सैनिको जो died in the 1882 बैटल of la concepción.
पीढी y, भी ज्ञात as the अंतर्दृष्टियों पीढी, is the जनसांख्यिकी cohort following Generation X.
There are no precise तिथियाँ लिये जब पीढी y starts और ends.
Commentators use beginning birth dates from the latter 1970s, or इससे the जल्दी 1980s to the जल्दी 2000s.
The torches of नीरो, by henryk siemiradzki.
According to Tacitus, Nero targeted Christians as those जिम्मेदार लिये the आग.
The Great Fire of रोम ( ) थी an शहरी आग कि occurred शुरूआत 19 July AD 64.
Virginia ( ), officially the Commonwealth of Virginia, is a u.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the दक्षिण अटलांटिक प्रदेश of the संयुक्त राज्य.
Virginia is nicknamed the `` Old Dominion '' और the `` माँ of राष्ट्रपतियों '' बाद the आठ u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों born there.
The geography and climate of the राष्ट्रमंडल हैं तराशा by the ब्लू लकीरें kyu और the chesapeake खाड़ी, जिससे provide आवास लिये much of its flora and fauna.
The capital of the Commonwealth is रिचमंड ; और वर्जिनिया बीच is the सबसे populous city.
फेयरफैक्स काउंटी is the सबसे populous political subdivision.
the wealthiest is Loudoun County.
the राष्ट्रमंडल 's जनसांख्यिकी is over eight million.
The area 's history begins with several स्वदेशी समूह, सहित the Powhatan.
In 1607 the लंदन कम्पनी स्थापित the Colony of Virginia as the first permanent New World English colony.
Slave labor and the land acquired from displaced देशी अमरीकी जनजातियों प्रत्येक निभाई a significant भूमिका in the उपनिवेश 's जल्दी राजनीती and plantation economy.
Virginia was one of the 13 Colonies in the American Revolution and joined the Confederacy in the American Civil War, during जिससे रिचमंड थी बना the confederate पूंजी और वर्जिनिया 's northwestern काउंटी seceded to रूप the राज्य of वेस्ट Virginia.
Although the Commonwealth थी अंतर्गत रूढ़िवादी single-party नियम लिये nearly a सदी following पुनर्निर्माण, दोनो major national parties are competitive in modern Virginia.
The Virginia General सभा is the oldest विधानमंडल in the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध.
The state सरकारी रै महरूम repeatedly ranked most effective by the Pew Center on the States.
It is unique in how it treats cities and counties equally, manages local roads, और prohibits इसके राज्यपालों इससे सेवारत लगातार terms.
Virginia 's economy has many sectors : agriculture in the Shenandoah Valley ; federal agencies in Northern Virginia, including the मुख्यालय of the विभाग of रक्षा और सीआईए ; और सैन्य सुविधाएं in हैम्पटन सड़कें, the site of the region 's main seaport.
Virginia 's पब्लिक स्कूलों और अनेक कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों have contributed to growing media and technology sectors.
As a परिणाम, कंप्यूटर चिप्स have become the state 's leading export.
Windows Movie Maker ( formerly ज्ञात as खिड़कियाँ सजीव फिल्म मेकर, codenamed Sundance ) is a freeware video editing software by Microsoft.
It is a part of Windows Essentials software suite और offers the क्षमता to बनाएँ और संपादन वीडियो as खूब as to प्रकाशित them on SkyDrive, Facebook, YouTube, and Flickr.
`` Brenda 's Got A Baby '' is the solo debut सिंगल by तुपाक shakur, और दसवाँ track इससे his debut album, 2Pacalypse Now.
The song, which features R & B singer Dave Hollister, is about a twelve year-old लड़की नामित ब्रेंडा जो जीवनदान in a ghetto, रै a baby, और is incapable of supporting it.
The song explores the समस्या of टीन गर्भावस्था और इसके प्रभाव on the young mothers and their families.
Like many of Shakur 's गीतों, `` ब्रेंडा 's मिला a baby '' draws from the plight of the impoverished.
using ब्रेंडा to represent यंग माताओं in सामान्य, shakur criticises the low level of support from the baby 's father, the government, and society in general.
Shakur wrote the song when he read a newspaper article about a twelve-year-old girl who got pregnant from her cousin and, because she did नहीं want उसके अभिभावक to जान परिचय the baby, फेंका it in a trash can.
The official logo of Pokémon for इसके अंतरराष्ट्रीय रिलीज ; `` पोकीमॉन '' is short for the original Japanese title of `` Pocket Monsters ''.
is a मीडिया मताधिकार प्रकाशित और स्वामित्व by जापानी वीडियो game company Nintendo and created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996.
originally released as a जोड़ी of interlinkable खेल लड़के role-playing वीडियो खेल विकसित by खेल Freak, Pokémon has since become the second-most successful and lucrative video game-based media franchise in the world, behind only Nintendo 's own Mario franchise.
Pokémon properties have since महरूम merchandised into दुश्मनी, manga, व्यापार ताश, toys, books, and other media.
The franchise celebrated in 2006, and, cumulative sales of the video games ( including home console संस्करण, ऐसे as the `` pikachu '' निन्टेंडो 64 ) have पहुँचे अधिक than 200 लाख नक़ल.
In November 2005, 4Kids entertainment, जिससे था प्रबंधित the non-game सम्बन्धित लाइसेंसिंग of पोकीमॉन, announced that it had agreed not to renew the Pokémon representation agreement.
Pokémon USA Inc. ( now The Pokémon Company International ), a subsidiary of जापानी 's पोकीमॉन co., अभी oversees सब पोकीमॉन लाइसेंसिंग outside of Asia.
The name पोकीमॉन is the romanized contraction of the Japanese brand.
The term Pokémon, in addition to referring to the Pokémon franchise itself, also collectively refers to the 649 fictional species that have made appearances in पोकीमॉन मीडिया as of the रिलीज of the पांचवां पीढी शीर्षक पोकीमॉन ब्लैक 2 और श्वेत 2 ; साथ the आगामी रिलीज of पोकीमॉन x और y, 6 नई पोकीमॉन have महरूम प्रदर्शित in promotions for the games.
`` Pokémon '' is identical in both the एकवचन और बहुवचन, as is प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत प्रजाति नाम ; it is grammatically सही to say `` one Pokémon '' and `` many Pokémon '', as well as `` one Pikachu `` and `` many Pikachu ''.
Cover of the first edition of the प्रकाशन दादा by ट्रिस्टन tzara ; ज्यूरिख, 1917
दादा ( ) or dadaism थी an आर्ट गति of the यूरोपीय avant-garde in the early 20th century.
Many claim Dada began in Zurich, स्विट्ज़रलैंड in 1916, spreading to बर्लिन shortly thereafter but the height of New York Dada was the year before in 1915.
To quote Dona budd 's the भाषा of आर्ट ज्ञान, दादा थी born आउट of ऋणात्मक प्रतिक्रिया to the horrors of World War I.
This international movement was begun by a समूह of कलाकार और कवियों संबद्ध साथ the कैबरे Voltaire in Zurich.
Dada rejected reason and logic, prizing nonsense, irrationality और अंतर्ज्ञान.
The origin of the name Dada is unclear ; कुछ मानना कि it is a nonsensical शब्द.
Others maintain that it originates from the रोमानियाई कलाकारों ट्रिस्टन tzara और मार्सल janco 's बारंबार उपयोग of the शब्द da, da, meaning yes, yes in the Romanian language.
Another theory says that the name `` Dada '' came दौरान a बैठक of the समूह जब a पेपर चाकू stuck into a french-german शब्दकोष happened to point to 'dada ', a French word for 'hobbyhorse '.
The गति primarily शामिल विज़ुअल कला, साहित्य, काव्य, आर्ट manifestoes, आर्ट सिद्धान्त, थिएटर, और ग्राफिक डिज़ाइन, और concentrated इसके anti-war politics through a rejection of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural works.
In addition to being anti-war, दादा थी भी anti- बुर्जुआ और था राजनैतिक affinities with the radical left.
Dada activities included public gatherings, demonstrations, and publication of art/literary जर्नल्स ; passionate कवरेज of आर्ट, राजनीती, और संस्कृति यहूद विषय प्रायः discussed in a variety of media.
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball, एमी hennings, hans arp, raoul hausmann, हन्ना höch, योहानेस baader, ट्रिस्टन tzara, फ्रांसिस picabia, रिचर्ड Huelsenbeck, Georg Grosz, John Heartfield, Marcel Duchamp, Beatrice Wood, Kurt Schwitters, and Hans Richter, among others.
The movement influenced later styles like the avant-garde and शहर म्यूज़िक आंदोलनों, और समूह सहित surrealism, देवानंद réalisme, pop art and Fluxus.
Dada is the groundwork to abstract आर्ट और ध्वनि काव्य, a starting पाइंट लिये प्रदर्शन आर्ट, a prelude to postmodernism, an influence on पॉप आर्ट, a जश्न of antiart to be बाद embraced लिये anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the movement that lay the foundation for Surrealism.
पहला trophic level.
the पौधे in इस चित्र, और the शैवाल और phytoplankton in the lake, are primary producers.
They take nutrients from the soil or the water, और manufacture उनके अपना खाना by photosynthesis, using उर्जा from the sun.
The trophic स्तर of an सजीव is the स्थिति it occupies in a food chain.
The word trophic गर्भाशयी इससे the यूनानी τροφή ( trophē ) referring to food or feeding.
A food chain represents a succession of organisms that eat another सजीव और हैं, in फेरे, खाया themselves.
The number of steps an सजीव is इससे the प्रारंभ of the कड़ी is a माप of its trophic level.
Food chains प्रारंभ at trophic स्तर 1 साथ प्राथमिक निर्माता ऐसे as पौधे, मूव to herbivores at स्तर 2, predators at level 3 and typically finish with carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5.
The path along the chain can form either a one-way प्रवाह, or a खाना `` वेब. ''
Ecological समुदायों साथ उच्चतर biodiversity रूप अधिक complex trophic paths.
Four of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण domesticated silk moths.
Top to bottom : Bombyx mori, hyalophora cecropia, antheraea pernyi, samia सिंथिया.
From मेयर्स konversations-lexikon ( 1885-1892 )
A silk-producing raspy क्रिकेट.
Silk is a natural protein fibre, some forms of which can be woven into वस्त्र.
The protein fibre of silk is composed mainly of fibroin and produced by निश्चित कीट लार्वे to रूप cocoons.
The best-known type of silk is प्राप्त इससे the cocoons of the लार्वे of the शहतूत silkworm bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ).
The shimmering appearance of silk is due to the triangular prism -like structure of the silk fibre, which allows silk cloth to refract आवक लाइट at अलग कोण, यूँ producing अलग colors.
Silks are produced by several other insects, but generally तभी the रेशा of शलभ caterpillars रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये वस्त्र निर्माण.
There has महरूम कुछ शोध into अन्य silks, which differ at the molecular level.
Many silks are mainly produced by the लार्वे of कीट undergoing पूरा metamorphosis, लकिन कुछ वयस्क कीट ऐसे as webspinners produce silk, and some insects such as raspy crickets produce silk throughout their lives.
Silk production also occurs in Hymenoptera ( bees, wasps, और चींटियों ), silverfish, mayflies, thrips, leafhoppers, भृंग, lacewings, fleas, flies and midges.
Other types of सन्धिपाद उपज रेशा, सबसे notably विभिन्न arachnids such as spiders ( see spider silk ).
Late Show with David Letterman is an American late-night talk show hosted by दाउद लेटरमैन on सीबीएस.
The show debuted on अगस्त 30, 1993, और is उत्पादित by लेटरमैन 's production company, Worldwide Pants Incorporated.
The show 's music director and band-leader of the हाउस बैंड, the सीबीएस ऑर्केस्ट्रा, is Paul Shaffer.
The head writer is Matt रॉबर्ट्स और the उद्घोषक is एलन Kalter.
Of the major U.S. late-night programs, Late Show ranks second in cumulative average viewers over समय और तीसरा in क्रमांक of एपीसोड over time.
The show leads other late night shows in ad आय साथ $ 271 लाख in 2009.
In most U.S. markets the show airs at 11:35 p.m. Eastern/Pacific time, but is अंकित सोमवार through बुधवार at 4:30 p.m., और गुरुवार at 3:30 p.m and 6:00 p.m.
The second Thursday episode प्रायः airs on शुक्रवार of कि सप्ताह.
In 2002, Late Show with David Letterman was ranked no. 7 on tv मार्गदर्शिका 's 50 महानतम tv shows of All Time.
CBS has a contract with Worldwide Pants to continue the दिखाएँ through 2014 ; by तब, लेटरमैन होगा surpass Johnny Carson as the longest tenured late-night talk show host.
The Real Housewives of Orange County is an American reality documentary television कार्यक्रम on ब्रावो, नियत in नारंगी काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
It was the पहला the रियल housewives program in the series.
The series is a voyeuristic look into the wealthy lives of these housewives, as वे दूकान, मिलेंगी प्लास्टिक सर्जरी, गपशप, लड़ो और सजीव lavishly.
The financial crisis, the beginning of which coincided लगभग exactly साथ the पहला ऋतु 's ब्रॉडकास्ट, रै चूंकि trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles साथ जॉब नुकसान, evictions, बंधक मूलभूत, foreclosures, and marital stress—all recorded in progressive seasons of the show.
Cyberstalking is the use of the Internet or अन्य इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अर्थात् to stalk or harass an व्यक्तिगत, a समूह of individuals, or an organization.
It may include the making of false accusations or statements of fact ( as in मानहानि ), निगरानी, बनाना खतरे, पहचान चोरी, क्षति to आंकड़ा or उपकरण, the solicitation of नाबालिग लिये sex, or gathering information that may be used to harass.
The definition of `` harassment '' must meet the criterion that a उचित व्यक्ति, in कब्ज़ा of the वही सूचना, होता लिहाज़ it as sufficient to cause another reasonable person distress.
Cyberstalking is different from spatial or offline stalking in that it occurs through the use of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक संचार प्रौद्योगिकी ऐसे as the अंतरजाल.
However, it sometimes लीड to it, or is accompanied by it.
Both are दण्ड offenses.
cyberstalking साझा महत्वपूर्ण विशेषताएँ with offline stalking.
Many stalkers – online or off – are प्रेरित by a ख्वाहिश to कंट्रोल उनके पीड़ितों.
A cyberstalker may be an ऑनलाइन अजनबी or a व्यक्ति whom the target knows.
A cyberstalker may be anonymous और may solicit भागीदारी of अन्य लोगों ऑनलाइन जो do नहीं even know the target.
Cyberstalking is a criminal offense that आता into खेल अंतर्गत राज्य anti-stalking कानून, बदनामी कानून, and harassment laws.
A cyberstalking conviction can result in a restraining अनुक्रम, probation, or even criminal penalties against the assailant, including jail.
A business letter is usually used when writing from one कम्पनी to another, or लिये पत्राचार between ऐसे संगठन and their customers, clients and other external parties.
The overall स्टाइल of अक्षर होगा निर्भर on the संबंध between the parties concerned.
There हैं अनेक कारण to लिखें a कारोबार letter.
It could be to निवेदन सीधा सूचना or कार्रवाई इससे another पार्टी, to अनुक्रम आपूर्तियाँ इससे a प्रदायक, to पहचानो a mistake that was committed, to reply directly to a request, to apologize for a wrong or simply to convey goodwill.
Even today, the business letter is स्टिल बहुत उपयोगी क्युकी it produces a स्थाई रिकार्ड, is गोपनीय, formal and delivers persuasive, well-considered messages.
Tilapia ( ) is the आम नाम लिये nearly a सौ प्रजाति of cichlid fish from the tilapiine cichlid tribe.
Tilapia are mainly freshwater fish, inhabiting shallow streams, ponds, rivers and lakes, और कम commonly मिला जीना in brackish जल.
Historically, they have महरूम of प्रमुख महत्व in artisan fishing in Africa and the Levant, and are of increasing importance in aquaculture.
Tilapia can become problematic invasive species in new warm-water habitats, whether deliberately or accidentally introduced, लकिन generally not in temperate climates due to their inability to survive in cooler waters below about.
Turner & Hooch is a 1989 comedy drama crime film starring Tom Hanks and beasley the श्वान as the eponymous वर्ण, टर्नर और Hooch respectively.
The film also stars घोड़ी winningham, क्रेग T. नेल्सन, and Reginald VelJohnson.
It was directed by Roger Spottiswoode ; the film was originally slated to be directed by हेनरी winkler, लकिन he थी terminated due to `` रचनात्मक मतभेद ''.
It was co-written by माइकल blodgett इससे परे the घाटी of the Dolls fame.
Although K-9 ( with James Belushi ) was released prior to this film ( exactly three महीने पहले ), टर्नर & hooch became अधिक लोकप्रिय और seemingly निष्प्रभ इसके वृहद success, even though K-9 had a very similar plot.
A pilot for a Turner & hooch tv श्रेणी थी बना और भागा as a भाग of the Magical World of Disney.
This is a list of israeli एयरपोर्ट, sorted by स्थान.
प्रवेश to Ovda Airport
Terminal 3 at बेन गुरियन
Plane लैंडिंग at be'er sheva ( Teyman )
eilat विमानक्षेत्र
Adolf Hitler ( ; 20 April 1889 – 30 अप्रैल 1945 ) थी an आस्ट्रिया -born जर्मनी राजनेता और the नेता of the नाजी Party ( ( NSDAP ) ; National Socialist German Workers Party ).
He was chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945 और तानाशाह of नाजी जर्मनी ( as führer und Reichskanzler ) from 1934 to 1945.
Hitler was at the केन्द्र of नाजी जर्मनी, संसार युद्ध ii in यूरोपीय, और the Holocaust.
Hitler was a सजा दिग्गज of संसार War I.
He joined the जर्मनी मजदूर ' पार्टी ( precursor of the NSDAP ) in 1919, and became leader of the NSDAP in 1921.
In 1923, he attempted a तख्तापलट d'état in Munich, known as the Beer Hall Putsch.
The failed coup resulted in हिटलर 's कारावास, दौरान which time he wrote his memoir, Mein Kampf ( My Struggle ).
After his release in 1924, Hitler gained popular support by attacking the Treaty of Versailles and promoting pan-germanism, antisemitism, और anti-communism साथ charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda.
After his appointment as chancellor in 1933, he transformed the Weimar Republic into the तीसरा reich, a single-party तानाशाही आधारित on the अधिनायकवादी and autocratic ideology of Nazism.
Hitler 's aim was to establish a New अनुक्रम of निरपेक्ष नाजी जर्मनी आधिपत्य in continental Europe.
To this end, his foreign and घरेलू नीतियों था the उद्देश्य of seizing lebensraum ( `` living space '' ) for the Germanic people.
He directed the rearmament of जर्मनी और the आक्रमण of कैंडल by the Wehrmacht in September 1939, resulting in the outbreak of World War II in Europe.
Under Hitler 's rule, in 1941 जर्मनी शक्तियां और उनके यूरोपीय allies occupied सबसे of Europe and North Africa.
In 1943, Germany had been forced onto the रक्षात्मक और suffered a श्रेणी of escalating defeats.
In the final days of the युद्ध, दौरान the बैटल of बर्लिन in 1945, हिटलर शादीशुदा उसके long-time partner, Eva Braun.
On 30 April 1945, less than two days later, the two वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या to avoid कैप्चर by the रेड फौज, और उनके शवों यहूद burned.
Hitler 's aggressive foreign policy is माना the प्रमुख कारण of the outbreak of World War II in Europe.
His antisemitic policies and racially motivated ideology resulted in the deaths of at least 5.5 million Jews, and millions of अन्य लोगों deemed racially अवर.
अंगूठा
A domain name is an identification string that defines a realm of प्रशासनिक स्वायत्तता, प्राधिकार, or कंट्रोल on the अंतरजाल.
Domain names are formed by the नियम और प्रक्रियाओं of the Domain Name System ( DNS ).
technically, कोई नाम पंजीकृत in the DNS is a domain name.
Domain names are used in विभिन्न नेटवर्किंग contexts और application-specific naming and addressing purposes.
In general, a domain name represents an Internet Protocol ( IP ) resource, such as a personal computer used to अभिगम the अंतरजाल, a सर्वर कंप्यूटर होस्टिंग a वेब साईट, or the वेब साईट itself or कोई अन्य सेवा communicated via the Internet.
Domain names हैं व्यवस्थित in अधीनस्थ स्तर ( subdomains ) of the DNS root domain, which is nameless.
The first-level set of domain names are the top-level domains ( TLDs ), including the generic top-level domains ( gTLDs ), such as the prominent डोमेन com, सूचना, जाल और org, और the देश कोड top-level डोमेन ( ccTLDs ).
Below ये top-level डोमेन in the डीएनएस पदानुक्रम हैं the second-level और third-level डोमेन names कि हैं typically खोलें लिये रिज़र्वेशन by end-users who wish to connect local area networks to the Internet, create other publicly accessible Internet resources or run web sites.
The registration of these domain names is प्रायः administered by डोमेन नाम registrars जो बेचें उनके services to the public.
A fully योग्य डोमेन नाम ( fqdn ) is a डोमेन नाम कि is completely specified in the hierarchy of the DNS, having no omitted parts.
Domain names are usually written in lowercase, हालांकि लेबल्स in the डोमेन नाम प्रणाली हैं case-insensitive.
Nitrate is a polyatomic ion with the molecular सूत्र no3− और a आणविक द्रव्यमान of 62.0049 g/mol. Nitrates also describe the organic functional group RONO2.
ये नाइट्रेट esters हैं a specialized class of explosives.
A wheat कटाई in Idaho
इस फ़ोटो इससे a 1921 ज्ञानकोष shows a tractor ploughing a crop field.
कृषि is a प्रमुख उद्योग in the संयुक्त राज्य and the country is a net exporter of food.
As of the last census of कृषि in 2007, वहीँ यहूद 2.2 लाख खेतो, covering an area of, an average of per farm.
Although agricultural activity occurs in most states, it is particularly concentrated in the विशाल expanse of चपटा, arable जमीन ज्ञात as the ग्रेट मैदान, जिससे encompasses the सेंट्रल प्रदेश of the nation.
The Mpemba effect, named after Tanzanian student Erasto mpemba, is the assertion कि warmer जल can फ्रीज तेज़ than colder water.
Although there is anecdotal support for the effect, there is no अनुबंध on exactly कया the प्रभाव is और अंतर्गत कया हालातों it occurs.
वहीँ have महरूम रिपोर्ट्स of समान phenomena चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स, although with insufficient detail for the claims to be replicated.
The phenomenon seems contrary to ऊष्मागतिकी, लकिन a क्रमांक of संभावित स्पष्टीकरण लिये the effect have been proposed.
Further investigations will need to decide on a precise definition of `` freezing '' and control a विशाल क्रमांक of starting पैरामीटर्स in अनुक्रम to confirm or explain the effect.
The Siamese (, ) is एक of the पहला distinctly पहचाना breeds of प्राच्य cat.
The breed originated in Thailand ( formerly known as Siam ), where वे हैं एक of अनेक देशी breeds और हैं पुकारा wichian mat ( วิเชียรมาศ, a name meaning `` moon diamond '' ).
In the 20th सदी the siamese बिल्ली became एक of the most popular breeds in Europe and North America.
Quality Food Centers ( QFC ) is a सुपरमार्केट कड़ी आधारित in bellevue, वॉशिंगटन, साथ 64 स्टोर्स in the puget ध्वनि प्रदेश of Washington state and in the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area.
In economics, the धन सप्लाई or धन भण्डार, is the कुल राशि of मौद्रिक एसेट उपलब्धियाँ in an economy at a specific time.
There are several ways to define `` money, '' but standard measures usually include currency in परिसंचरण और माँग जमा ( जमाकर्ताओं ' easily पहुँचा एसेट on the किताबे of वित्तीय संस्थानों ).
Money supply data are recorded and published, usually by the सरकारी or the सेंट्रल बैंको of the देश.
Public and private sector analysts have long monitored परिवर्तन in money supply because of its effects on the price level, inflation, the exchange rate and the business cycle.
कि संबंध between धन और कीमतें is historically संबद्ध with the quantity theory of money.
There is दमदार अनुभवजन्य प्रमाण of a सीधा संबंध between money-supply विकास और long-term price inflation, at least for rapid increases in the amount of money in the economy.
That is, a country such as Zimbabwe which देखी रैपिड increases in इसके धन सप्लाई भी saw rapid increases in prices ( hyperinflation ).
This is one reason लिये the रिलायंस on मौद्रिक नीति as a अर्थात् of controlling inflation.
The nature of this causal chain is the विषय of contention.
Some heterodox economists argue that the money supply is endogenous ( determined by the workings of the अर्थव्यवस्था, नहीं by the सेंट्रल बैंको ) और कि the स्त्रोत of महंगाई जरूर be found in the distributional structure of the economy.
In addition, those economists seeing the central bank 's कंट्रोल over the धन सप्लाई as feeble कह कि वहीँ हैं दो कमजोर कड़ी between the विकास of the धन सप्लाई and the inflation rate.
First, in the aftermath of a recession, when many resources are underutilized, an increase in the धन सप्लाई can कारण a sustained बढ़ाएँ in रियल उत्पादन बजाय of inflation.
Second, if the velocity of money, i.e., the ratio between nominal GDP and money supply, changes, an increase in the money सप्लाई could have either no प्रभाव, an अतिरंजित प्रभाव, or an मनमौजी effect on the growth of nominal GDP.
लोगो लिये IMAX.
Warren Theatre IMAX cinema, wichita, कान्सास, यूएसए, 601 सीटे.
A comparison between 35 mm and 15/70 mm ऋणात्मक क्षेत्रों.
IMAX ( an abbreviation for Image Maximum ) is a motion चित्र फिल्मी स्वरूप और a नियत of सिनेमा प्रक्षेप मानकों निर्मित by the कनाडाई कम्पनी imax Corporation.
IMAX has the capacity to record and display images of far greater आकार और रेज़ोल्यूशन than conventional फिल्मी प्रणालियों.
Since 2002, some feature films have been converted ( or upgraded ) into IMAX format लिये प्रदर्शक in imax थिएटर और कुछ have भी महरूम partially shot in IMAX.
IMAX is the सबसे widely प्रयुक्त प्रणाली लिये special-venue film presentations.
, there are 697 imax थिएटर in 52 countries.
Today 's Special is a कनाडाई children 's टेलीविज़न show produced by Clive VanderBurgh at TVOntario from 1981 to 1987.
It also ran on Nickelodeon and the Faith and Values Channel/Odyssey ( now the hallmark चैनल ) as खूब as अनेक pbs स्टेशन throughout the United States.
It was set in a department store, based on the फ्लैगशिप स्थान of the अभी defunct सिम्पसन 's in Toronto.
Many sequences लिये it यहूद शॉट at the महारानी Street West and Yonge Street store after hours.
Constitutionalism, in its most general meaning, is `` a complex of ideas, attitudes, and पैटर्न of बर्ताव elaborating the principle कि the प्राधिकार of सरकारी गर्भाशयी इससे और is limited by a body of fundamental law ''.
A political organization is constitutional to the extent that it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of शक्ति कंट्रोल लिये the protection of the interests and liberties of the citizenry, including those that may be in the minority ``.
As described by political scientist and संवैधानिक विद्वान दाउद fellman :
An ice-cream headache, also known as brain freeze, cold-stimulus headache, or इसके दिए वैज्ञानिक नाम sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( अर्थ `` तंत्रिका पीड़ा of the sphenopalatine गंडिका `` ), is a रूप of ब्रैड cranial पीड़ा or सिरदर्द commonly संबद्ध with consumption ( particularly quick consumption ) of cold beverages or foods such as ice cream and ice pops.
It is caused by having something cold touch the roof of the mouth ( palate ), and is believed to result from a nerve response causing रैपिड constriction और सूजन of रक्त बरतन or a `` referring `` of पीड़ा इससे the छत of the मुँह to the head.
The rate of intake लिये ठंडा भोजन रै महरूम पढ़ाई as a contributing factor.
There are people who can नहीं अनुभव `` दिमाग फ्रीज '' or समान symptoms.
The term ice-cream सिरदर्द रै महरूम in उपयोग चूंकि at तनिक 31 जनवरी 1937, contained in a जर्नल प्रविष्टि by रेबेका timbres प्रकाशित in the 1939 book We did n't ask Utopia : a Quaker family in Soviet Russia.
the पहला प्रकाशित उपयोग of the पद दिमाग फ्रीज, as it pertains to cold-induced headaches, was on 27 May 1991.
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( : note `` s '' rather than `` z '' ) is a स्कॉट्स कविता लिखा by रॉबर्ट burns in 1788 और नियत to the धुन of a परंपरागत folk song ( Roud # 6294 ).
It is well known in many countries, especially in the english-speaking संसार ; इसके परंपरागत उपयोग होने to celebrate the start of the New Year at the stroke of midnight.
By extension, it is also sung at funerals, graduations and as a विदाई or समाप्ति to अन्य अवसरों.
The international लड़के स्काउट युवावस्था गति, in अनेक देशों, उपयोग it as a close to jamborees and other functions.
The song 's Scots title may be translated into English literally as `` बूढ़ा long चूंकि '', or अधिक idiomatically, `` long long पहले '', `` दिनों गए by '' or `` old times ''.
नतीजतन `` लिये auld लैंग syne '', as it appears in the पहला लकीर of the chorus, might be loosely translated as `` for ( the sake of ) old times ''.
The phrase `` Auld Lang Syne '' is also used in similar कविताएं by रॉबर्ट ayton ( 1570–1638 ), allan ramsay ( 1686–1757 ), और जेम्स Watson ( 1711 ) as well as older folk songs predating Burns.
मैथ्यू fitt उपयोग the phrase `` in the दिनों of auld lang syne '' as the equivalent of `` Once upon a time...
`` in उसके retelling of परी किस्से in the Scots language.
Ben schulz, खिलाड़ी of leeroy Jenkins at BlizzCon 2007
leeroy जेनकींस, sometimes misspelled लेरॉय जेनकींस और प्रायः elongated साथ numerous additional letters, is an Internet meme named for a player character created by Ben Schulz in Blizzard Entertainment 's MMORPG, World of Warcraft.
The character became लोकप्रिय due to a वीडियो of the खेल कि परिचालित around the Internet.
The phenomenon has since स्प्रेड परे the सीमाएँ of the गेमिंग जातियाँ into other online and mainstream media.
Oscar Grant was fatally shot by BART police officer Johannes Mehserle in Oakland, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त राज्य, in the जल्दी morning घंटों of नई साल 's दिन 2009.
Responding to reports of a fight on a भीड़ खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल रैपिड पारगमन ट्रैन returning इससे सैन फ्रांसिस्को, बार्ट पुलिस अधिकारियों detained ऑस्कर ग्रान्ट और अनेक अन्य यात्री on the platform at the Fruitvale BART Station.
अधिकारी योहानेस mehserle और another अधिकारी यहूद restraining Grant, who was prostrate and allegedly resisting arrest.
Officer Mehserle stood and, according to गवाह, कहा : `` मिलेंगी वापस, I 'm gon na tase him. ''
Then Mehserle drew उसके गन और शॉट ग्रान्ट एकबार in the वापस ; mehserle appeared दंग, put his hands to his head and exclaimed, `` Oh, my God ! ''
During उसके अदालत गवाही, mehserle कहा कि ग्रान्ट then exclaimed, `` You shot me ! ''
Grant turned out to be unarmed ; he was pronounced dead the next morning at highland हॉस्पिटल in ओकलैंड.
The events were captured on multiple digital वीडियो और कोशिका फोन कैमरे.
The footage was disseminated to मीडिया आउटलेट और to various websites, where it was watched millions of times.
The following days saw दोनो शांतिपूर्ण and violent protests.
the शूटिंग रै महरूम variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter and a summary execution.
On January 13, Alameda County prosecutors चार्ज mehserle साथ हत्या लिये the shooting.
He resigned उसके स्थिति और pleaded not guilty.
The विचारण began on June 10, 2010.
Michael Rains, Mehserle 's criminal defense attorney, argued that mehserle mistakenly शॉट ग्रान्ट साथ उसके पिस्टल, intending to उपयोग उसके तासीर जब he देखी ग्रान्ट reaching for his waistband.
Pretrial filings argue that his client did not commit first-degree murder and पूछा a लॉस एंजिल्स न्यायधीश to instruct the जूरी to सीमा इसके deliberations to either second-degree murder or acquittal.
ओकलैंड सिविल अधिकारों attorney जॉन burris filed a $ 25 million wrongful death claim against BART on behalf of Grant 's family.
On July 8, 2010, the जूरी लौटे इसके verdict : mehserle थी मिला अपराधी of involuntary manslaughter and not guilty of second-degree murder and voluntary manslaughter.
Initial protests against the ruling were peacefully organized ; लूटने, आगजनी, विनाश of प्रॉपर्टी, और छोटी दंगे broke out after dark.
Nearly 80 लोगों यहूद आखिरकार गिरफ्तार.
On शुक्रवार, जुलाई 9, 2010, the u.S. इंसाफ विभाग खोली a सिविल अधिकारों मामला विरूद्ध mehserle ; the संघीय government can prosecute him independently for the same act under the separate sovereigns exception to double jeopardy.
The Department of Justice will be working साथ the u.S. attorney 's दफ्तर in San Francisco and the FBI.
On November 5, 2010, Mehserle was sentenced to दो सालो, ऋण समय served.
He served his time in the Los एंजिल्स काउंटी कारावास, occupying a निजी कोशिका दूर from other prisoners.
He was released on June 13, 2011 और is अभी on पैरोल.
प्रमुख प्रतिनिधि of the Harlem Renaissance.
The Harlem Renaissance थी a सांस्कृतिक गति that spanned the 1920s.
At the time, it थी ज्ञात as the `` नई नीग्रो गति '', नामित बाद the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke.
Though it was centered in the हार्लेम पड़ोस of नई यॉर्क नगर, अनेक french-speaking ब्लैक लेखक इससे अफ़्रीकी और caribbean colonies who lived in Paris were also influenced by the Harlem Renaissance.
The Harlem पुनर्जागरण is unofficially पहचाना to have spanned from about 1919 until the early or mid-1930s.
Many of its विचार जिया on much longer.
The zenith of this `` flowering of Negro literature '', as James Weldon Johnson preferred to call the Harlem Renaissance, was लगाई between 1924 ( the साल कि अवसर : a जर्नल of नीग्रो जीवन hosted a पार्टी लिये ब्लैक लेखक जहाँ अनेक श्वेत प्रकाशक यहूद in उपस्थिति ) और 1929 ( the year of the stock market crash and the beginning of the Great Depression ).
African राज्य between 500 bce और 1500 CE
Obelisk at temple of लक्सर, मिश्र.
c. 1200 bce.
अफ़्रीकी नाईट of baguirmi in full padded armour suit.
The history of Africa begins with the prehistory of Africa and the emergence of होमो sapiens in ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी, continuing into the उपस्थित as a patchwork of विविध और नीतियां developing nation states.
Some early evidence of agriculture in अफ़्रीकी तिथियाँ इससे 16,000 bce, और metallurgy इससे परिचय 4000 bce.
The recorded history of early सभ्यता arose in मिश्र, और बाद in Nubia, the Maghreb and the Horn of Africa.
During the मध्य आयु, islam spread through the regions.
Crossing the मग़रिब और the सहेल, a प्रमुख बीच of मुस्लिम संस्कृति was Timbuktu.
Some notable pre-colonial states and societies in Africa शामिल the nok संस्कृति, माली साम्राज्य, ashanti साम्राज्य, किंगडम of mapungubwe, किंगडम of ज्या, किंगडम of saloum, किंगडम of baol, किंगडम of ज़िम्बाब्वे, किंगडम of kongo, प्राचीन कार्थेज, numidia, Mauretania, the Aksumite Empire, the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate.
From the late 15th century, Europeans and Arabs took स्लेव इससे वेस्ट, सेंट्रल और southeast Africa overseas in the African slave trade.
European colonization of अफ़्रीकी विकसित rapidly in the Scramble for Africa of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
Following struggles for independence in many parts of the महाद्वीप, as खूब as a weakened यूरोपीय बाद the दूसरी संसार War ; decolonization took place.
Africa 's history has been चुनौतीपूर्ण लिये शोधकर्ताओं in the फ़ील्ड of अफ़्रीकी studies because of the scarcity of written sources in large parts of sub-Saharan Africa.
Scholarly techniques such as the रिकॉर्डिंग of मौखिक इतिहास, ऐतिहासिक भाषाविज्ञान, पुरातत्व and genetics have been crucial.
Curry Foley was the पहला खिलाड़ी in प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल history to hit for the cycle.
In baseball, hitting for the cycle is the accomplishment of one बैटर hitting a सिंगल, a दोगुना, a ट्रिपल, और a घर run in the same game.
Collecting the hits in that अनुक्रम is ज्ञात as a `` प्राकृतिक cycle ''.
Cycles are uncommon in Major लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ), और have occurred 294 टाइम्स since the first by Curry Foley in 1882.
The cycle is roughly as common as a no-hitter ( 279 occurrences in MLB history ) ; it has been called `` one of the rarest '' और `` सबसे मुश्किल feats '' in baseball.
Based on 2009 offensive levels, the probability of an average MLB player hitting लिये a साईकिल विरूद्ध an औसत टोली in a खेल is लगभग 0.00590 % ; इस corresponds to परिचय 2.5 cycles in a 162-game season with 30 teams.
In other baseball लीग, the साईकिल is हासिल कम frequently.
Through September 4, 2008, 62 players in Nippon Professional Baseball ( NPB ), the top-level baseball संगठन in जापानी, have hit लिये the साईकिल, the most recent being Michihiro Ogasawara.
दो खिलाड़ी have hit लिये the साईकिल on the same day once in NPB history ; this has occurred twice in MLB history.
One NPB player रै भी hit लिये the साईकिल in an npb All-Star game.
No player has ever hit लिये the साईकिल in the एमएलबी all-star Game or the postseason.
The main slave रूट in मध्यकालीन Africa.
This आलेख discusses प्रणालियों, इतिहास, and effects of slavery within Africa.
See Arab slave trade, अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार, maafa, और गुलामी in समकालीन Africa for other discussions.
`` स्लेव हस्तांतरण in Africa ''.
Europeans usually did not enter the आंतरिक regions.
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the महाद्वीप लिये अनेक centuries, and continues in the current day.
Systems of servitude and slavery were आम in अनेक भाग of the महाद्वीप, as वे यहूद in much of the प्राचीन संसार.
In most African societies where slavery was प्रचलित, the enslaved लोगों यहूद largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves.
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began, many of the लोकल स्लेव प्रणालियों बदला और began supplying captives लिये स्लेव बाज़ार बाहर of Africa.
Slavery in ऐतिहासिक अफ़्रीकी थी practiced in अनेक अलग फ़ॉर्म और कुछ of ये do not clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world.
Debt slavery, enslavement of युद्ध captives, सैन्य गुलामी, और दण्ड गुलामी यहूद all practiced in various parts of Africa.
Although वहीँ था महरूम कुछ trans-saharan व्यापार इससे the आंतरिक of sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी to अन्य regions, गुलामी was a small part of the economic life of many societies in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ).
Slave practices were again transformed with European colonization of अफ़्रीकी और the औपचारिक abolition of गुलामी in the early 1900s.
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about कंप्यूटर प्रदर्शन और कार्यशील अनुप्रयोग, प्रक्रियाओं और cpu उपयोग, कमिट चार्ज और मेमोरी सूचना, संजाल कार्यकलाप और आंकडे, logged-in उपयोक्ता, और प्रणाली सेवाएं ( और as प्रायः is the मामला साथ तन्त्र टूल्स provided by microsoft लिये खिड़कियाँ, 3rd पार्टी तन्त्र is उपलब्धियाँ जिससे भरता the आवश्यकताएँ अधिक thoroughly, e.g, `` प्रक्रम एक्सप्लोरर '', `` विस्तारित कार्य मैनेजर '', `` Anvir Task Manager '', `` Process Hacker '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
The Task Manager can also be used to set प्रक्रम प्राथमिकताएं, प्रोसेसर अपनापन, forcibly terminate प्रक्रियाओं, और shut bas, restart, hibernate or log off from Windows.
खिड़कियाँ कार्य मैनेजर थी introduced with Windows NT 4.0.
Previous versions of खिड़कियाँ nt शामिल the कार्य सूची अनुप्रयोग, which had far fewer features.
The task list थी सक्षम of लिस्टिंग फिलहाल कार्यशील processes and killing them, or creating a new process.
In Windows xp तभी, a shutdown मेनू is भी उपस्थित कि allows access to Standby, Hibernate, Turn off, Restart, Log Off and Switch User.
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft खिड़कियाँ 3.x, खिड़कियाँ 95, खिड़कियाँ 98 ) था a कार्यक्रम ज्ञात as कार्य to प्रदर्शक the programs currently running.
This संचिका थी चलाया by कार्यशील the taskman.exe file from the C : \Windows directory.
The Troop is an American-Canadian live-action, single camera comedy -adventure television series about a trio of teenagers who fight and कैप्चर राक्षस और अन्य अलौकिक phenomena कि invade the fictional कस्बा of Lakewood.
Created और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by अधिकतम burnett, ग्रेग कूलिज और क्रिस मॉर्गन, the series premiered on Nickelodeon on September 18, 2009.
The दूसरी ऋतु premiered on जून 25, 2011 और निकलोडियन रद्द the series midway through it 's second season.
The बाकी एपीसोड of ऋतु 2 were aired on Nicktoons except the last 3..
Sparsely populated in relation to its area, the Democratic Republic of the Congo ( DRC ) is home to a vast potential of natural resources and mineral wealth, its untapped जमा of कच्चा खनिज हैं अनुमानित to be लायक in excess of us $ 24 खरब, yet the अर्थव्यवस्था of the drc रै अस्वीकृत drastically चूंकि the mid-1980s.
At the समय of इसके स्वतंत्रता in 1960, drc थी the दूसरी सबसे industrialized देश in अफ़्रीकी बाद दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी ; it boasted a thriving mining sector and its agriculture sector was relatively productive.
If the viewer stares at इस चित्र लिये 20–60 सेकेंड और stares at a श्वेत ऑब्जेक्ट, a negative afterimage will appear ( in this case, it will be cyan on magenta ).
This can also be achieved by the viewer closing his/her आँखें and tilting their head up.
An afterimage or ghost image or image burn-in is an optical illusion that refers to an image continuing to appear in एक 's दृष्टि बाद the एक्सपोज़र to the असली चित्र रै ceased.
One of the most common afterimages is the bright glow कि seems to फ्लैश पहले एक 's आँखें बाद looking into a लाइट सोर्स लिये a few सेकेंड.
Closing the eye can help achieve a बेहतर भाव of the रंग in इसके अपना पहलू.
Afterimages come in two forms, ऋणात्मक ( उलट ) और धनात्मक ( retaining असली color ).
The process behind धनात्मक afterimages is अनजान, though thought to be related to neural adaptation.
On the other hand, negative afterimages हैं a retinal घटना और हैं well understood.
Lost is an American serial drama television series that premiered on September 22, 2004 on the अमरीकी प्रसारण Company ( ABC ).
The series was created by J. J. Abrams and Damon Lindelof, आधारित upon an असली पायलट स्क्रिप्ट titled nowhere लिखा by जेफरी Lieber.
Six seasons of the show aired, in जोड to numerous clip shows to recap previous episodes.
ABC announced that Lost would end बाद छह सीज़न, having उत्पादित a कुल of 121 episodes.
The series follows the past, present, and future experience ( s ) of the survivors of a प्लेन क्रैश on a यात्री जेट, oceanic उड़ान 815, उड़ती इससे सिडनी to लॉस एंजिल्स बाद it क्रैश on a तीव्र द्वीप in the South Pacific.
The series also includes कहानियां of the जीवनदान of लोगों already जीना on the द्वीप — they include the `` Others ``, who initially antagonize the survivors, as well as a group of people who arrive on the freighter Kahana.
Each episode typically features action on the island as खूब as a द्वितीयक कथानक इससे another पाइंट in a अक्षर 's life.
Season 6 features a detailing of the जीवनदान of the survivors in a अलग वास्तविकता, as if the flight had never crashed.
In the following list, the term `` featured character ( s ) '' refers to the character or वर्ण जो हैं प्रदर्शित in the द्वितीयक कथानक of प्रत्येक एपीसोड.
`` no.
in श्रेणी '' refers to the एपीसोड 's क्रमांक in the overall series, whereas `` No.
in season '' refers to the episode 's number in each particular season.
`` U.S. दर्शक ( लाख ) '' refers to the number of Americans in millions who watched the episode live.
A total of 121 एपीसोड of खोया यहूद उत्पादित, the last of which aired on May 23, 2010.
All seasons are available on dvd in regions 1–4 और on blu-ray in Regions A and B.
Flat feet ( also called pes planus or fallen arches ) is a formal reference to a medical condition in which the arch of the पैर collapses, साथ the संपूर्ण एकमात्र of the पैर coming into complete or near-complete contact with the ground.
In some individuals ( an अनुमानित 20–30 % of the सामान्य जनसांख्यिकी ) the मेहराब बस never develops in one foot ( unilaterally ) or both feet ( bilaterally ).
Three studies ( see citations below in military section ) of military recruits have दिखाया no प्रमाण of बाद increased चोट, or पैर समस्याएं, due to चपटा फीट, in a जनसांख्यिकी of people who reach military service age without prior foot problems.
However, these studies can not be प्रयुक्त to न्यायधीश संभावित भविष्य क्षति इससे इस कंडीशन when diagnosed at younger ages.
They also can not be applied to persons whose flat feet are associated with foot symptoms, or certain लक्षण in अन्य भाग of the देह ( ऐसे as the लेग or वापस ) संभवतः referable to the foot.
Generation X, commonly abbreviated to gen x, is the पीढी born बाद the पश्चिमी post-World War II baby boom.
Demographers, historians and टीकाकारों उपयोग शुरूआत जनम dates from the early 1960s to the early 1980s.
The term was popularized by डगलस coupland 's 1991 अनोखा पीढी x : Tales for an Accelerated Culture.
Before that, it had महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये विभिन्न subcultures or countercultures after the 1950s.
Pressure ulcers, also known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores, are localized injuries to the skin and/or underlying ऊतक प्रायः over a बोनी prominence, as a परिणाम of दबाव, or दबाव in संयोजन साथ shear and/or friction.
Most commonly this will be the sacrum, coccyx, heels or the hips, but other साइट ऐसे as the elbows, अदब, ankles or the वापस of the cranium can be प्रभावित.
The cause of pressure ulcers is pressure applied to soft ऊतक so कि रक्त प्रवाह to the नरम ऊतक is completely or partially obstructed.
Shear is also a cause ; shear खींचता on रक्त बरतन that feed the skin.
Pressure ulcers most commonly develop in व्यक्तियों जो हैं नहीं चलती परिचय or are confined to wheelchairs.
It is widely believed that other factors can influence the सहिष्णुता of स्किन लिये दबाव और shear thereby increasing the risk of pressure ulcer development.
These factors are protein-calorie malnutrition, microclimate ( skin wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ), diseases that reduce blood flow to the स्किन, ऐसे as arteriosclerosis or रोगों कि reduce the अहसास in the स्किन, ऐसे as paralysis or neuropathy.
The healing of pressure ulcers may be slowed by the आयु of the व्यक्ति, चिकित्सा शर्तें ( ऐसे as arteriosclerosis, diabetes or infection ), smoking or medications such as antiinflammatory drugs.
Although often prevented and treatable if found early, pressure ulcers can be very मुश्किल to prevent in critically बीमार मरीजों, frail बड़ो, व्हीलचेयर उपयोक्ता ( विशेषकर where spinal injury is involved ) and terminally ill patients.
Primary prevention is to redistribute दबाव by turning the patient regularly.
The benefit of turning to avoid further sores is खूब प्रलेखित चूंकि at least the 19th century.
In addition to turning and re-positioning the patient in bed or wheelchair, खाने a संतुलित आहार साथ पर्याप्त प्रोटीन और keeping the skin free from exposure to urine and stool is very important.
The व्यापकता of दबाव छाले in हॉस्पिटल settings is high, but improvements are being made.
According to the 2010 IPUP ( International Pressure Ulcer Prevalence Survey ) conducted in कनाडा, वहीँ थी a significant घटी in the overall facility-acquired prevalence of pressure ulcers from 2009-2010.
Ulcers were most commonly पहचाना at the sacral/coccyx अल्सर स्थान ; however, एड़ी छाले यहूद the सबसे आम facility-acquired location in the survey.
overboard is a 1987 अमरीकी रोमांटिक कॉमेडी film starring Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell.
It was निर्देशित by गैरी मार्शल, उत्पादित by roddy mcdowell, and loosely inspired by the 1974 Italian film Swept Away.
In turn, Overboard was adapted into the 2006 South कोरियाई टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, युगल or ट्रबल.
Green Bay is a city in and the county seat of Brown County in the u.S. राज्य of विस्कॉन्सिन, स्तिथ at the सिर of Green Bay, a sub-basin of Lake Michigan, at the mouth of the Fox River.
It has an उन्नयन of ऊपर समुद्र स्तर और is स्तिथ north of Milwaukee.
The population थी 104,057 at the 2010 census.
It is the third-largest नगर in the राज्य of विस्कॉन्सिन, after Milwaukee and Madison.
It is भी the third-largest नगर on the वेस्ट shore of Lake Michigan, after Chicago and Milwaukee.
Green Bay is home to the Green Bay Packers of the National फ़ुटबॉल लीग, बनाना it by दूर the smallest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the यूएसए to मेजबान a प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल franchise.
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल, जिससे कवर भूरा, kewaunee, और oconto Counties and had a combined population of 282,599 at the 2000 census.
Green Bay is an औद्योगिक नगर साथ अनेक meatpacking और पेपर पौधे, और a बंदरगाहों on ग्रीन खाड़ी, an arm of Lake Michigan that locals call the Bay of Green Bay, to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city.
It is home to the National Railroad संग्रहालय ; the नेविली पब्लिक संग्रहालय, साथ प्रदर्शनियों of आर्ट, इतिहास, and science ; and the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay.
luteinizing हार्मोन ( lh, भी ज्ञात as lutropin और sometimes lutrophin ) is a hormone produced by gonadotroph cells in the anterior pituitary gland.
In females, an acute rise of LH ( `` lh surge '' ) triggers ovulation and development of the corpus luteum.
In males, where LH had also been called interstitial cell-stimulating हार्मोन ( icsh ), it stimulates leydig कोशिका उत्पादन of testosterone.
It acts synergistically with FSH.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez ( April 16, 1971 – कूच 31, 1995 ), ज्ञात बस as Selena, was an American singer-songwriter.
She was named the `` top लैटिन कलाकार of the '90s '' और `` बेहतरीन selling लैटिन कलाकार of the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड लिये उसके fourteen top-ten singles in the Top Latin Songs chart, including seven number-one hits.
Selena had the most successful singles of 1994 और 1995, `` amor prohibido `` और `` No Me Queda Más ``.
She थी पुकारा `` the महारानी of tejano music `` and the Mexican equivalent of Madonna.
Selena released her first album, सेलिना y लॉस dinos, at the आयु of twelve.
She won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano Music Awards and उतरा a रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध साथ emi a few सालो later.
Her fame grew throughout the early 1990s, विशेषकर in spanish-speaking देशों, और वो था begun recording in English as well.
Selena was murdered at the आयु of 23 on कूच 31, 1995 by yolanda saldívar, the पूर्व president of her fan club.
On April 12, 1995, two weeks बाद उसके मौत, जार्ज W. बुश, राज्यपाल of टेक्सास at the समय, घोषित her birthday `` Selena Day '' in Texas.
Warner भाईs. उत्पादित सेलिना, a फिल्मी आधारित on her life starring Jennifer Lopez, in 1997.
Selena 's जीवन थी भी the आधार of the musical सेलिना forever starring Veronica Vazquez as Selena.
In जून 2006 सेलिना थी commemorated साथ a life-sized कांस्य प्रतिमा ( Mirador de la Flor in Corpus Christi, Texas ) and a Selena museum opened there.
She has sold over 60 million albums विश्वव्यापी, बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling कलाकारों of सब time.
She is also the only female artist to have पाँच एल्बम in u.s. बिलबोर्ड 200 at the वही time.
जर्मनी stahlhelm from World War II
Insignia of the Bolivian Army colorados रेजीमेंट, प्रर्दशित a stahlhelm और दो crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm ( plural, stahlhelme ) is जर्मनी लिये `` steel helmet ''.
The इम्पीरियल जर्मनी फौज began to बदलें the परंपरागत boiled-leather pickelhaube ( spiked combat helmet ) with the Stahlhelm during World War I in 1916.
The term Stahlhelm refers both to a जेनेरिक स्टील हेल्मेट, और अधिक specifically to the distinctive ( and iconic ) German design.
The Stahlhelm, with its distinctive `` coal scuttle `` आकार, थी an तुरन्त recognizable प्रतीक लिये सैन्य imagery और became a आम तत्व of सैन्य propaganda on both sides, just like the Pickelhaube before it.
Its name थी भी प्रयुक्त by the stahlhelm, a अर्धसैनिक nationalist organization established at the end of 1918.
glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
Bioluminescence, the उत्पादन और उत्सर्जन of light by a living organism
Chemiluminescence, is the उत्सर्जन of लाइट ( luminescence ) without emission of heat
स्फुरदीप्ति, a विशिष्ट प्रकार of photoluminescence related to fluorescence
radioluminescence, उत्पादन of संदीप्ति in a material by the bombardment of ionizing radiation
Glow in the अंधेरा दौरे, a 2008 कॉन्सर्ट tour by Kanye West
फ्रैंकफर्ट विमानक्षेत्र serves as a हब नगर लिये लुफ़्थान्सा and receives flights from Star Alliance carriers.
Airline hubs are airports ranked as large, medium, small, and non-hubs as one of the FAA airport श्रेणी जिससे हैं re-evaluated प्रत्येक साल आधारित on क्रमांक of commercial passengers.
The more common but अनौपचारिक उपयोग लिये the phrase एयरलाइन हब is an विमानक्षेत्र कि an एयरलाइन उपयोग as a transfer point to get passengers to their intended destination.
It is part of a hub and spoke model, जहाँ travelers चलती between एयरपोर्ट नहीं परोसा by सीधा flights change planes en route to their destinations.
This is as opposed to the Point to Point model.
Many hubs of the एयरलाइंस हैं भी situated at एयरपोर्ट in the cities of the respective head offices.
Some एयरलाइंस may उपयोग तभी a सिंगल हब, जबकि अन्य airlines use multiple hubs.
Hubs are used for both यात्री फ़्लाइट as खूब as cargo flights.
अनेक एयरलाइंस भी उपयोग फ़ोकस शहरों, which function much the same as hubs.
एयरलाइंस may भी उपयोग द्वितीयक hubs, a non-technical पद लिये विशाल focus cities.
A hub in the middle of a route is more effective than at either समाप्त as connecting ट्रैफ़िक अधिक easily भरता the प्लेन - यात्री prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) route over a two-stop ( three-leg ) route.
Hollow lacedaemon.
Site of the Menelaion, the shrine to Helen and Menelaus constructed anciently in the कांस्य आयु नगर कि stood on the हिल of Therapne on the left bank of the Eurotas River overlooking the future site of Dorian Sparta.
आरपार the घाटी the successive ridges of Mount Taygetus are in evidence.
Sparta ( Doric Greek : ; Attic Greek : ), or Lacedaemon, was a prominent city-state in प्राचीन यूनानियों, situated on the बैंको of the Eurotas River in Laconia, in south-eastern Peloponnese.
It emerged as a political entity around the 10th century bc, जब the आक्रमणकारी dorians subjugated the लोकल, non-dorian जनसांख्यिकी.
Around 650 BC, it rose to become the प्रबल सैन्य land-power in ancient Greece.
Given its military pre-eminence, स्पार्टा थी पहचाना as the overall नेता of the संयुक्त यूनानी forces during the Greco-Persian Wars.
Between 431 and 404 BC, Sparta was the principal दुश्मन of एथेंस दौरान the peloponnesian युद्ध, इससे जिससे it उभरा विजयी, हालांकि at ग्रेट लागत.
Sparta 's defeat by Thebes in the Battle of Leuctra in 371 BC ended स्पार्टा 's prominent भूमिका in यूनानियों.
However, it कायम इसके राजनैतिक स्वतंत्रता until the Roman conquest of Greece in 146 BC.
It then underwent a long period of decline, विशेषकर in the मध्य आयु, जब अनेक spartans स्थानांतरित to सजीव in mystras.
Modern Sparta is the capital of the Greek क्षेत्रीय ईकाई of laconia और a बीच लिये the प्रसंस्करण of goods such as citrus and olives.
Sparta was unique in प्राचीन यूनानियों लिये इसके सोशल प्रणाली और संविधान, जिससे completely focused on military training and excellence.
Its निवासियों यहूद वर्गीकृत as spartiates ( spartan नागरिकों, जो enjoyed पूरा अधिकारों ), mothakes ( non-spartan फ़्री मेन raised as Spartans ), Perioikoi ( freedmen ), and Helots ( state-owned serfs, enslaved non-Spartan local population ).
Spartiates underwent the rigorous agoge training and शिक्षा regimen, और spartan phalanges यहूद widely माना to be among the बेहतरीन in battle.
Spartan women enjoyed considerably more rights और समता to मेन than elsewhere in the classical world.
Sparta was the subject of fascination in its own day, as खूब as in the वेस्ट following the पुनरुद्धार of शास्त्रीय सीखना.
This love or admiration of स्पार्टा is known as Laconism or Laconophilia.
Fantasy football is an इंटरैक्टिव प्रतियोगिता in जिससे उपयोक्ता compete विरूद्ध प्रत्येक अन्य as सामान्य प्रबंधक of virtual teams.
The players that an individual is able to manage are पेशेवर अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खिलाड़ी in the National Football League.
The different actions people are able to make are drafting, trading, adding or छोड़ने खिलाड़ी, और बदलना rosters.
Due to the growth of the अंतरजाल, काल्पनिक फ़ुटबॉल रै vastly increased in लोकप्रियता, विशेषकर क्युकी काल्पनिक फ़ुटबॉल प्रदाताओं ऐसे as ईएसपीएन, याहू, सीबीएस, और the एनएफएल itself are able to keep track of statistics entirely online, eliminating the need to check box scores and newspapers regularly to keep track of players.
Most leagues have a सिंगल सप्ताह चैंपियनशिप in सप्ताह 16 of the NFL season.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( रेड, नारंगी, ग्रीन ) और us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates ( black ).
Actual recorded जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े हैं in ब्लू.
According to the उच्चतम अनुमान, the संसार जनसांख्यिकी may वृद्धि to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The world population is the कुल क्रमांक of जीना इंसानो on Earth.
As of today, it is estimated to number billion by the United States जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ( uscb ).
The USCB estimates that the संसार जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 अरब on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund, it पहुँचे इस पड़ाव on अक्तूबर 31, 2011.
The world population has अनुभवी निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350, when it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % per year – were देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s, और लिये a longer काल दौरान the 1960s और 1970s.
The विकास रेट peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the लेट 1980s at परिचय 138 लाख, और हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at their 2011 level of 134 million, while deaths number 56 million per year, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ), साथ the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी अपेक्षित to पहुँचें between 7.5 और 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth, stagnation, or भी overall decline in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the स्थिरता of further संसार जनसांख्यिकी विकास, citing the growing pressures on the environment, global food supplies, and energy resources.
Skeletal मांसपेशियां होमो sapiens
इस is a तालिका of muscles of the human anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal मांसपेशियां भीतर the ठेठ इंसान, और लगभग प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes एक भाग of a जोड़ी of एकसमान द्विपक्षीय मांसपेशियां, मिला on दोनो sides, resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles, as presented in this article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles differently, e.g. regarding कया is पारिभाषित as अलग भाग of a single muscle or as several muscles.
Examples दायरा इससे 640 to 850.
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups which शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन, मांसपेशियां of the धड़ or ट्रंक, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी इससे the standard anatomical position.
In अन्य स्थितियाँ, अन्य क्रियाएँ may be performed.
A gold bar is a quantity of refined metallic gold of any shape that is made by a bar निर्माता बैठक मानक शर्तें of manufacture, labeling, और record keeping.
Larger gold बार कि हैं उत्पादित by pouring the molten metal into molds are called ingots.
Smaller bars may be manufactured by minting or stamping इससे appropriately लिपटे सुनहरा sheets.
The standard gold bar held as gold reserves by central banks and traded among bullion डीलर is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounces ) Good Delivery gold bar.
The kilobar, which is to say 1000 grams in द्रव्यमान, is the बार कि is अधिक manageable और is प्रयुक्त extensively for trading and investment.
The प्रीमियम on ये बार जब traded is बहुत कम over the स्पॉट मान of the सुनहरा बनाना it ideal for small transfers between banks and traders.
Most kilobars are flat, हालांकि कुछ निवेशकों, विशेषकर in यूरोपीय, prefer the brick shape.
Elisha Archibald `` Archie '' Manning III ( born May 19, 1949 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग, playing लिये the नई ऑरलियन्स संतो इससे 1971 to 1982, then for the Houston Oilers and Minnesota Vikings.
He is the father of current डेनवर broncos क्वार्टरबैक peyton मैनिंग, वर्तमान नई यॉर्क Giants starting quarterback Eli Manning, and former Ole Miss receiver Cooper Manning.
Advocacy is a political process by an individual or group जिससे aims to influence public-policy और संसाधन आवंटन निर्णय भीतर राजनैतिक, आर्थिक, और सोशल प्रणालियों and institutions.
Advocacy can include many activities that a person or organization undertakes including media campaigns, public speaking, commissioning और प्रकाशन शोध or पोल or the दाखिल of an amicus ब्रैड.
Lobbying ( often by lobby groups ) is a form of advocacy where a direct दृष्टिकोण is बना to विधायक on an समस्या जिससे plays a significant भूमिका in modern politics.
Research is beginning to explore how advocacy groups in the U.S. और कनाडा हैं using सोशल मीडिया to सुकर नागरिक सगाई और सामूहिक action.
The flag of Mexico ( Spanish : Bandera de México ) is a लंबवत तिरंगा of ग्रीन, श्वेत, और रेड साथ the नेशनल coat of arms charged in the center of the white stripe.
While the meaning of the colors has changed over time, these three colors were adopted by Mexico following independence from Spain during the country 's युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता, और subsequent पहला मैक्सिकन साम्राज्य.
The current flag was अपनाया in 1968, लकिन the overall डिज़ाइन रै महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि 1821, when the First National Flag was created.
The current law of national symbols, Law on the National Arms, Flag, and Anthem, that governs the use of the नेशनल ध्वज रै महरूम in प्लेस चूंकि 1984.
Red, white, and green are the colors of the नेशनल मुक्ति फौज in Mexico.
the सेंट्रल emblem is the एज़टेक pictogram लिये Tenochtitlan ( now Mexico City ), the center of their empire.
It recalls the legend that inspired the aztecs to settle on कया थी originally a lake-island.
The form of the कोट of बाहें थी सबसे recently revised in 1968.
A ribbon in the नेशनल रंगों is at the नीचे of the coat of arms.
Throughout history, the flag has changed चार टाइम्स, as the डिज़ाइन of the कोट of बाहें and the length-width ratios of the flag have been modified.
However, the coat of arms has had the same features throughout : an eagle, holding a serpent in its talon, is perched on top of a prickly नाशपाती कैक्टस ; the कैक्टस is situated on a चट्टान कि उदय ऊपर a lake.
The coat of arms is derived from an Aztec legend that their gods told them to build a नगर जहाँ वे स्पॉट an त्रिभुज on a nopal खाने a serpent, जिससे is अभी Mexico City.
The current नेशनल ध्वज, the चौथी नेशनल ध्वज, is also used as the Mexican naval ensign by ships registered in Mexico.
a गंतव्य विपणन संगठन or सम्मेलन और visitor bureau promotes a town, city, region, or country in order to increase the number of visitors.
It promotes the विकास और विपणन of a गंतव्य, focusing on convention sales, tourism marketing, and services.
Such संगठन प्रचार आर्थिक विकास of a गंतव्य by increasing विज़िट इससे पर्यटकों and business travelers, which generates overnight lodging for a destination, visits to restaurants, and shopping revenues.
Convention and visitor bureaus are the most important tourism marketing organizations in their respective tourist destinations, as they are directly responsible लिये विपणन the गंतव्य ब्रांड through सफर और पर्यटन `` उत्पाद जागरूकता '' to visitors.
DMOs produce billions of डॉलर in सीधा और अप्रत्यक्ष आय और कर लिये उनके गंतव्यों ' economies with their marketing and sales expertise.
Destination marketing organizations are often called travel, सम्मेलन, विज़िटर, or पर्यटन bureaux, स्वागत centers, सूचना centers and more.
regardless of the नाम, ये संगठन प्रस्ताव many services to the traveling public.
The elk or wapiti ( cervus canadensis ) is एक of the largest प्रजाति of हिरण in the संसार, and one of the largest land mammals in North America and eastern Asia.
It was long believed to be a subspecies of the European red deer ( Cervus elaphus ), लकिन प्रमाण इससे a 2004 पढ़ाई of the mitochondrial डीएनए indicates कि the दो हैं distinct species.
इस एनिमल चाहिए नहीं be उलझन साथ the larger मूस ( Alces alces ), to which the name `` elk '' applies in Eurasia.
अलावा इससे the मूस, the तभी अन्य सदस्य of the deer family to rival the elk in size is the south Asian sambar ( Rusa unicolor ).
Elk range in forest and forest-edge habitat, feeding on grasses, पौधे, पत्ते, और bark.
Although native to North अमेरिका और पूर्वी एशिया, वे have adapted खूब to देशों जहाँ वे have been introduced, including Argentina, Australia, and New Zealand.
Their great adaptability may threaten endemic species और ecosystems into जिससे वे have महरूम introduced.
पुरूष नीलगाय have विशाल antlers जिससे are shed each year.
Males also engage in ritualized mating behaviors during the rut, including posturing, antler कुश्ती ( sparring ), और bugling, a लाउड श्रेणी of vocalizations जिससे establishes दबदबा over अन्य males and attracts females.
Elk are susceptible to a क्रमांक of संक्रामक रोगों, कुछ of which can be transmitted to livestock.
Efforts to eliminate संक्रामक रोगों इससे नीलगाय populations, largely through vaccination, have had mixed success.
Some संस्कृतियों आदर the elk as a spiritual force.
In parts of Asia, antlers और उनके मखमल हैं प्रयुक्त in traditional medicines.
Elk are hunted as a game species ; the मांस is leaner और उच्चतर in प्रोटीन than beef or chicken.
the जार्ज वॉशिंगटन विश्वविद्यालयों ( gw, gwu, or जार्ज वॉशिंगटन ) is a व्यापक private, coeducational research university located in Washington, D.C..
It awards प्रमाणपत्र, स्नातक डिग्री, मास्टर्स डिग्री, and PhDs across several dozen disciplines.
The university was chartered by an Act of Congress on फ़रवरी 9, 1821 as the columbian कॉलेज in the ज़िला of Columbia.
The शेर ( पेंथेरा leo ) is one of the four big cats in the genus Panthera and a member of the family Felidae.
With some males exceeding in वज़न, it is the second-largest जीना cat after the tiger.
Wild lions currently exist in sub-Saharan Africa and in Asia ( where an endangered remnant population resides in Gir Forest National पार्क in इण्डिया ) जबकि अन्य प्रकार of शेर have disappeared इससे उत्तर अफ़्रीकी और दक्षिणपश्चिम एशिया in ऐतिहासिक times.
Until the late Pleistocene, about 10,000 years पहले, the शेर थी the सबसे फैली विशाल जमीन स्तनधारी बाद humans.
वे यहूद मिला in सबसे of अफ़्रीकी, आरपार यूरेशिया इससे western Europe to India, and in the Americas from the Yukon to Peru.
The lion is a vulnerable species, having seen a major population decline of 30–50 % over the पास्ट दो दशकों in इसके अफ़्रीकी दायरा.
Lion populations are untenable बाहर designated reserves and national parks.
Although the cause of the decline is not fully understood, habitat loss and conflicts साथ इंसानो हैं फिलहाल the महानतम कल्याणकारी of concern.
Within Africa, the वेस्ट अफ़्रीकी शेर जनसांख्यिकी is particularly endangered.
Lions live for 10–14 years in the जंगली, जबकि in captivity they can live longer than 20 years.
In the wild, males seldom live longer than 10 years, as injuries sustained इससे continual लड़ साथ प्रतिद्वंद्वी males greatly reduce their longevity.
They typically inhabit सवाना और घासभूमि, हालांकि वे may take to bush and forest.
Lions हैं unusually सोशल compared to other cats.
A pride of शेर consists of सम्बन्धित महिलाओं and offspring and a small number of adult males.
Groups of female lions typically हंट साथ, preying ज़्यादातर on विशाल ungulates.
Lions are apex and keystone परभक्षी, हालांकि वे scavenge as opportunity allows.
While lions do not typically hunt humans, कुछ have महरूम ज्ञात to do so.
sleeping मुख्यतः दौरान the दिन, शेर हैं primarily nocturnal, although bordering on crepuscular in nature.
Highly distinctive, the male lion is easily recognised by its mane, and its face is one of the सबसे widely recognised एनिमल प्रतीकों in इंसान culture.
Depictions have existed from the Upper Paleolithic period, साथ उत्कीर्णन और paintings इससे the lascaux और chauvet गुफाएं, through वस्तुतः सब प्राचीन and medieval cultures where they once occurred.
It has been extensively depicted in sculptures, in paintings, on नेशनल ध्वज, and in contemporary films and literature.
Lions have been kept in menageries since the time of the Roman Empire, and have महरूम a कुंजी प्रजाति sought लिये प्रदर्शनी in zoos over the संसार चूंकि the late 18th century.
zoos हैं cooperating विश्वव्यापी in breeding programs for the endangered Asiatic subspecies.
In the history of video games, the सातवाँ पीढी of consoles is the पिछला पीढी, and includes consoles released since late by Nintendo, Microsoft, and Sony.
For home consoles, the seventh generation began on 22 November 2005 with the release of एक्सबॉक्स 360 और जारी साथ the रिलीज of प्लेस्टेशन 3 on 11 नवम्बर 2006, and Wii on 19 November 2006.
Each new console introduced a नई प्रकार of breakthrough in technology.
The Xbox 360 offered games rendered natively at hd रिज़ॉल्यूशन, the प्लेस्टेशन 3 offered, in जोड to fhd गेमिंग, hd फिल्म प्लेबैक via a built-in 3d blu-ray Disc player, and the Wii focused on integrating controllers with movement sensors as well as joysticks.
Joining Nintendo in the motion market, Sony released the प्लेस्टेशन मूव in सितंबर 2010.
The प्लेस्टेशन मूव सुविधाएँ गति संवेदन गेमिंग, समान to that of the Wii.
microsoft भी joined सोनी और निन्टेंडो, with its Kinect.
Unlike the अन्य दो प्रणालियों ( PlayStation 3 and Wii ), Kinect does not use any controllers of any sort and makes the users the `` controller. ''
Having sold 8 लाख इकाई in इसके पहला 60 दिनों on the मार्केट, kinect रै claimed the गिनीज World Record of being the `` fastest selling consumer electronics device ''.
While the Xbox 360 offers wired परिरक्षक as a स्टैंडअलोन उत्पाद, सब प्लेस्टेशन 3 परिरक्षक can be प्रयुक्त in wired and wireless configurations.
Starting with हैंडहेल्ड consoles, the सातवाँ पीढी began on 21 नवम्बर 2004 साथ the उत्तर अमरीकी परिचय of the Nintendo DS as a `` third pillar '', alongside Nintendo 's existing Game Boy Advance and GameCube consoles.
the निन्टेंडो ds ( nds ) सुविधाएँ a टच स्क्रीन और built-in microphone, and supports wireless IEEE 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards.
Additionally, the संशोधित संस्करण of the nds, the dsi, सुविधाएँ दो निर्मित in कैमरे, the ability to download games from the DSi store, and a web browser.
The PlayStation Portable, or PSP, released later the वही साल on 12 दिसम्बर 2004, followed a अलग pattern.
It became the first handheld video game कंसोल to उपयोग an ऑप्टिकल डिस्क स्वरूप, सार्वभौमिक Media Disc ( UMD ), as its primary storage media.
सोनी भी दिया the psp मजबूत multi-media काबिलियत, कनेक्टिविटी with the PlayStation 3 and other PSPs, and Internet connectivity.
The Nintendo DS likewise has connectivity to the internet through the Nintendo wi-fi कनेक्शन और निन्टेंडो ds ब्राउजर, as खूब as बेतार कनेक्टिविटी to other DS systems and Wii consoles.
Despite ऊँची बिक्री संख्याएँ लिये दोनो consoles, प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल बिक्री have consistently पिछड़ापन पीछे those of the निन्टेंडो ds ; nevertheless, the PlayStation Portable has the distinction of being the best-selling non-Nintendo handheld gaming system.
Sgt. Pepper 's Lonely दिल क्लबों बैंड ( प्रायः shortened to sgt. pepper ) is the आठवीं स्टुडियो album by English rock band the Beatles.
Released in June 1967, the album included songs such as `` With a Little Help from My मित्रों ``, `` लुसी in the आसमान साथ ईंट ``, और `` a दिन in the जीवन ``.
continuing the कलाकारी maturation देखी on the बैंड 's एल्बम रिवाल्वर ( 1966 ), sgt. pepper further departed from the conventional pop rock idiom of the time and incorporated balladry, psychedelic, music hall, and symphonic influences.
During the Sgt. Pepper sessions, the समूह improved upon the विशेषता of उनके म्यूज़िक 's उत्पादन जबकि exploring experimental recording techniques.
निर्माता जार्ज मार्टिन 's अभिनव दृष्टिकोण शामिल the use of an orchestra.
Widely acclaimed and imitated, the album cover, designed by English pop कलाकारों पीटर ब्लेक और jann haworth, थी प्रेरित by a स्केच by पॉल mccartney कि चित्रित the बैंड posing in front of a collage of some of their favourite celebrities.
Sgt. Pepper was a worldwide critical and commercial success, बिता 27 सप्ताह at the शीर्ष of the uk एल्बम चार्ट और 15 सप्ताह at क्रमांक एक on the us बिलबोर्ड 200.
A seminal work in the emerging psychedelic चट्टान स्टाइल, the एल्बम थी critically acclaimed upon रिलीज and won four Grammy Awards in 1968.
With an estimated 32 लाख नक़ल बेची, it is एक of the world 's best selling albums.
Sgt. Pepper is considered by many to be the most influential और प्रसिद्ध चट्टान एल्बम कभी, और रै महरूम नामित the महानतम एल्बम of सब समय by both All Time Top 1000 Albums and Rolling Stone.
The temporal lobe is a region of the cerebral cortex that is located beneath the lateral फिशर on दोनो दिमागी बांटती of the mammalian brain.
The temporal lobes are involved in the स्तंभन of विज़ुअल यादें, प्रसंस्करण संवेदी इनपुट, comprehending language, storing new memories, emotion, and deriving meaning.
the इंसान फेफड़े हैं the organs of respiration in humans.
इंसानो have दो फेफड़े, a सही lung and a left lung.
The right lung consists of three lobes while the left lung is slightly छोटी consisting of तभी दो निर्मोक ( the बाएँ फेफड़ों रै a `` हृदय पायदान '' allowing स्पेस लिये the heart within the chest ).
Together, the lungs contain approximately of airways and 300 to 500 million alveoli, having a कुल सतह क्षेत्रफल of परिचय ( ) in वयस्कों — roughly the same area as one side of a tennis court.
furthermore, if सब of the capillaries कि घेर the alveoli यहूद unwound and laid end to end, they would extend for about.
Each lung weighs, therefore making the संपूर्ण अंग परिचय.
इंसान फेफड़े
The trachea divides into two bronchi ( one for प्रत्येक पक्ष ) at the स्तर of T4.
This junction is भी ज्ञात as the carina.
The conducting zone contains the trachea, the bronchi, the bronchioles, और the टर्मिनल bronchioles the respiratory मण्डल contains the respiratory bronchioles, the alveolar ducts, and the alveoli.
The conducting मण्डल और the respiratory stuffers ( लकिन नहीं the alveoli ) are made up of airways.
The conducting मण्डल रै no गैस एक्सचेंज साथ the रक्त, और is reinforced with cartilage in order to hold open the airways.
The conducting मण्डल warms the एयर to और humidifies the air.
It also cleanses the air by निकालना अणु via cilia स्तिथ on the दीवारें of सब the passageways.
The lungs are घिरी by the पसली पिंजरा.
The respiratory zone is the साईट of गैस एक्सचेंज साथ रक्त.
The sympathetic nervous system via noradrenaline एक्टिंग on the बीटा receptors कल्याणकारी bronchodilation.
The parasympathetic nervous प्रणाली via acetylcholine, जिससे अधिनियमों on the m-3 muscarinic receptors, maintains the resting tone of the bronchiolar smooth muscle.
This action is related, हालांकि माना पृथक इससे bronchoconstriction.
Many other non-autonomic nervous and biochemical stimuli, सहित कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड और ऑक्सीजन, हैं भी शामिल in the विनियमन process.
The pleural cavity is the संभावित स्पेस between the parietal pleura, अस्तर the भीतरी wall of the thoracic cage, and the visceral pleura lining the lungs.
the फेफड़ों parenchyma is सख्ती प्रयुक्त to refer solely to alveolar ऊतक साथ respiratory bronchioles, alveolar ducts and terminal bronchioles.
However, it often includes any form of lung tissue, also including bronchioles, bronchi, रक्त बरतन और फेफड़ों interstitium.
The margarita is a Mexican cocktail consisting of tequila mixed with Cointreau or similar orange -flavoured liqueur और लाइम or नीबू रस, प्रायः परोसा साथ salt on the glass rim.
It is the सबसे आम tequila-based कॉकटेल in the United States.
The drink is served shaken with बर्फ ( on the रॉक्स ), blended साथ बर्फ ( frozen मार्गरिटा ), or without ice ( straight up ).
Two bottles of red Burgundy wine from gevrey-chambertin, côtes de nuits
Burgundy is a dark red color associated with the बरगंडी वाइन of the वही नाम, जिससे in फेरे is नामित बाद the बरगंडी प्रदेश of France.
The color burgundy is समान to अन्य शेड्स of अंधेरा रेड ऐसे as maroon.
When referring to the रंग, `` बरगंडी '' is प्रायः नहीं capitalized.
The first recorded use of `` बरगंडी '' as a रंग नाम in अंग्रेज़ी was in 1881.
Grave of an unknown British soldier, killed in 1943 दौरान the बैटल of Leros.
Because his identity is अनजान, he is लापता in कार्रवाई.
Grave of an अनजान अमरीकी सिपाही in oise-aisne Cemetery.
मारे in 1917
Grave of an unknown paratrooper, मारे in the बैटल of arnhem, 1944.
photographed in अप्रैल 1945
Graves of 11 अनजान अंग्रेजों सैनिको मारे during World War II, in Rhodes CWGC war cemetery
वॉल crypts containing remains of अनजान इतालवी सैनिको killed during World War II, in a Rhodes cemetery
Some of the 72,000 names inscribed on the thiepval Memorial to the Missing of the Somme
Graves of unknown French सैनिको मारे दौरान संसार War One.
Each concrete क्रॉस रै a मेटल प्लैक bearing the शब्द `` Inconnu '' i.e. `` Unknown ''
Ossuary at the Gallipoli battlefield, containing the remains of 3000 unidentified फ्रेंच सैनिको जो died in 1915
Graves of अनजान eritrean ascaris मारे in 1941 during the Battle of Keren
Missing in action ( MIA ) is a casualty Category assigned under the Status of लापता to हथियारबंद सेवाएं कर्मियों जो हैं reported लापता दौरान क्रियाशील सेवा.
They may have महरूम मारे, wounded, become a prisoner of war, or deserted.
If deceased, neither उनके remains nor संगीन can be positively identified.
बनने मिया रै महरूम an occupational रिस्क लिये सेवा कर्मियों for as long as there has been warfare.
Chamber of कॉमर्स भवन in बीच.
This building is the असली कारावास, निर्मित साथ with the Historic Courthouse.
दोनो बैठना on the Town Square.
the रिओ थिएटर in Center
First Baptist Church at 117 Cora Street in Center is स्तिथ अगला to the शहर खण्ड.
First Christian Church at 124 कोरा गली in बीच is एक of the oldest congregations in the community.
Center is a city in शेल्बी काउंटी, टेक्सास, संयुक्त States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,193 at the 2010 census.
It is the county सीट of शेल्बी काउंटी.
It is named for its स्थान निकट the बीच of शेल्बी काउंटी, नहीं लिये इसके स्थान in Texas as it is located near the Louisiana border.
Intense red-eye प्रभाव in ब्लू आँखें साथ dilated pupil
The red-eye effect in photography is the common रूप of रेड विद्यार्थियों in रंग छायाचित्र of eyes.
It occurs when using a फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक फ्लैश बहुत close to the camera lens ( as with most compact cameras ), in ambient low light.
The प्रभाव appears in the आँखें of इंसानो और animals that have tapetum lucidum.
नाट्य followspot ऑपरेटर, positioned nearly coincidentally साथ a very bright light and somewhat distant from the actors, occasionally witness red-eye in actors on stage.
The effect is not visible to the rest of the audience because it is reliant on the बहुत छोटी कोण between the followspot ऑपरेटर and the light.
The University of California, सांता बारबरा ( commonly referred to as uc सांता बारबरा or ucsb ) is a पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों and one of the ten general campuses of the University of California system.
The main campus is स्तिथ on a साईट in goleta, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त States, from Santa Barbara and northwest of Los Angeles.
Tracing इसके जड़ें वापस to 1891 as an स्वतंत्र शिक्षक ' कॉलेज, ucsb joined the विश्वविद्यालयों of California system in 1944 and is the third-oldest general-education campus in the system.
UCSB is one of America 's Public Ivy universities, जिससे recognizes शीर्ष पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The university is a व्यापक डॉक्टरेट विश्वविद्यालयों और is व्यवस्थित into पाँच कॉलेजों और स्कूलों offering 87 undergraduate degrees and 55 graduate degrees.
The campus is the 6th-largest in the uc प्रणाली by नामांकन साथ 18,977 undergraduate और 2,950 ग्रैजुएट students.
In 2012, UCSB was ranked 41st among `` नेशनल विश्वविद्यालयों '' और 10th among पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों by u.S. News & World Report.
The university was also ranked 35th विश्वव्यापी by the टाइम्स उच्चतर शिक्षा संसार विश्वविद्यालयों rankings और 34th विश्वव्यापी ( 6th विश्वव्यापी लिये अभियान्त्रिकी ) by the अकादमिक रैंकिंग of संसार Universities in 2012. < ref name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 '' >
UC Santa Barbara is a `` very high activity '' research university and spent $ 191.2 लाख on शोध expenditures in the 2007 फिस्कल साल, 97th-largest in the United States.
UCSB houses twelve national research centers, including the प्रसिद्ध kavli संस्थान लिये सैद्धांतिक भौतिकी.
UCSB संकाय शामिल पाँच नोबेल पुरस्कार laureates, एक फ़ील्ड medalist, 29 सदस्यों of the National Academy of Sciences, 27 members of the National Academy of Engineering, and 31 members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
UCSB was the No. 3 host on the ARPAnet and was निर्वाचित to the संघ of अमरीकी विश्वविद्यालयों in 1995.
The UC Santa Barbara Gauchos compete in the ncaa प्रभाग i बिग वेस्ट Conference.
The gauchos have जीती ncaa नेशनल championships in मेन 's soccer and men 's water polo.
संत जोसेफ साथ the Infant Jesus by Guido Reni
Saint Joseph 's Day, March 19, the Feast of st. जोसेफ is in पश्चिमी christianity the प्रिंसिपल feast दिन of संत जोसेफ, जीवनसाथी of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
He is भी the step-father of Jesus of Nazareth /Jesus Christ.
It has the rank of a solemnity in the Roman कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर ; catholics जो follow the missal of 1962 celebrate it as a first class feast.
Previous to 1962 it was celebrated as a feast of the रैंक of दोगुना of the पहला क्लास.
It is a feast or commemoration in the प्रांतों of the anglican नियाज़, और a feast or festival in the Lutheran Church.
Saint Joseph 's Day is the Patronal Feast day for Poland as well as for Canada, persons नामित जोसेफ, josephine, etc., लिये धार्मिक संस्थान, स्कूलों और parishes bearing उसके name, and for carpenters.
It is also Father 's दिन in कुछ कैथोलिक देशों, मुख्यतः स्पेन, Portugal, and Italy.
March 19 was dedicated to Saint Joseph in several Western calendars by the tenth सदी, और इस कस्टम थी स्थापित in रोम by 1479.
Pope St. Pius V extended its use to the संपूर्ण रोमन रीति by उसके अपोस्टोलिक Constitution Quo Primum ( July 14, 1570 ).
Since 1969, Episcopal Conferences may, if they काश, ट्रांसफ़र it to a तिथि बाहर Lent.
Between 1870 and 1955, a feast was celebrated in honor of St. Joseph as Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary और संरक्षक of the सार्वभौमिक गिरिजाघर, the latter title having been given to him by Pope Pius IX.
Originally celebrated on the third Sunday after Easter with an octave, after Divino Afflatu of st. पायस x ( देखिए सुधार of the रोमन breviary by पोप पायस x ), it थी स्थानांतरित to the preceding Wednesday.
The feast was also retitled the solemnity of संत Joseph.
This celebration and its accompanying octave was abolished during the modernisation और सरलीकरण of rubrics अंतर्गत पोप पायस बारहवीं in 1955.
It is स्टिल कायम by catholics जो follow the missal of 1962 or earlier missals.
As the traditional holiday of the Apostles Ss. Philip and जेम्स, may 1, था धुंधली इससे the मेमोरी of सबसे catholics by the mid-twentieth सदी, कि of जोसेफ the कार्यकर्ता was created in order to coincide with the celebration of international Labour Day ( May Day ) in many countries.
The feast of Ss. फिलिप और जेम्स, जिससे था महरूम मनाये on कि तिथि चूंकि the sixth century, was moved from its traditional place.
In the new calendar published in 1969, the feast, जिससे at एक समय occupied the उच्चतम संभावित रैंक in the गिरिजाघर पंचांग, was reduced to an optional Memorial, the lowest rank for a saint 's day.
The Eastern Orthodox Church celebrates संत जोसेफ on the संडे बाद Christmas.
Mariah Carey ( born March 27, 1970 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, रिकार्ड निर्माता, अभिनेत्री, and philanthropist.
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola, Carey released her self-titled debut studio album Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum और शाखित चार लगातार क्रमांक एक singles on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड hot 100 chart.
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit रिकॉर्ड भाव ( 1991 ), Music Box ( 1993 ), and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ), Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act.
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single `` One Sweet Day ``, a duet with Boyz II Men, खर्च a रिकार्ड सोलह सप्ताह on शीर्ष of the बिलबोर्ड hot 100, और remains the longest-running number-one सोंग in u.S. चार्ट history.
दौरान the रिकॉर्डिंग of the एल्बम, कैरी began to deviate from her R & B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop.
This musical बदलें became evident साथ the रिलीज of तितली ( 1997 ), at which time Carey had separated from Mottola.
Carey left Columbia in 2000, and signed a record-breaking $ 100 लाख रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध साथ वर्जिन रिकॉर्ड.
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ), she suffered a शारीरिक और emotional विश्लेषण और थी hospitalized लिये severe exhaustion.
Following the film 's poor रिसेप्शन, वो थी खरीदा आउट of उसके रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध लिये $ 50 million, which led to a decline in her career.
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002, और बाद an unsuccessful काल, लौटे to the शीर्ष of म्यूज़िक चार्ट with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ).
Its second single `` We belong साथ `` became उसके सबसे कामयाब सिंगल of the 2000s, और थी बाद नामित `` सोंग of the Decade '' by Billboard.
Carey एकबार again ventured into फिल्मी साथ a well-received अभिनीत भूमिका in ( 2009 ) ; वो थी awarded the `` भेदन प्रदर्शन पुरस्कार '' at the ताड़ स्रोतों अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी Festival, and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations.
In a career spanning over two decades, Carey has sold more than 200 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling म्यूज़िक कलाकारों of all time.
In 1998, she was honored as the world 's best-selling रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार of the 1990s at the संसार म्यूज़िक Awards.
Carey was also named the best-selling female artist of the मिलेनियम in 2000.
According to the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका, वो is the तीसरा best-selling female artist in the United States, with 63.5 million certified albums.
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ), Carey gained उसके eighteenth क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the संयुक्त राज्य, अधिक than कोई अन्य सोलो artist.
In 2012, Carey was ranked second on VH1 's सूची of the `` 100 महानतम महिलाओं in Music ''.
Aside from her commercial accomplishments, Carey रै जीती पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, 17 संसार म्यूज़िक Awards, 11 American Music Awards, and 31 Billboard Music Awards.
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness World Records, she is famed लिये उसके five-octave गायन दायरा, शक्ति, melismatic स्टाइल और हस्ताक्षर use of the whistle register.
A bumblebee is कोई सदस्य of the मधुमक्खी genus Bombus, in the family Apidae.
There are over 250 ज्ञात प्रजाति, मौजूदा primarily in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध हालांकि they also occur in South America.
They have been introduced to New जीलैंड और the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई राज्य of तस्मानिया.
Bumblebees are सोशल कीट कि हैं characterised by black and yellow body hairs, often in bands.
however, कुछ प्रजाति have नारंगी or रेड on their bodies, or may be entirely black.
Another obvious ( but not unique ) characteristic is the soft nature of the hair ( long, branched setae ), पुकारा pile, कि कवर उनके संपूर्ण देह, बनाना उन्हें appear और महसूस fuzzy.
They हैं बेहतरीन विशिष्ट इससे similarly विशाल, फजी मधुमक्खियों by the रूप of the मादा हिन्द लेग, जिससे is परिवर्धित to रूप a corbicula : a चमकदार concave सतह कि is bare, but surrounded by a fringe of hairs used to transport pollen ( in similar bees, the hind leg is completely hairy, and pollen grains are wedged into the hairs for transport ).
Like their relatives the honey bees, bumblebees फीड on मकरंद और एकत्रित pollen to feed their young.
A man openly carrying a handgun in a बर्गर King in Eagle, Colorado.
In the United States, open carry is shorthand terminology for `` खुलकर carrying a firearm in पब्लिक '', as विशिष्ट इससे concealed carry, जहाँ firearms can not be seen by the casual observer.
The practice of open carry, where gun owners खुलकर carry firearms जबकि वे go परिचय उनके रोज़ कारोबार, रै देखी an बढ़ाएँ in the U.S. in recent years.
This has been marked by a क्रमांक of व्यवस्थित कार्यक्रम intended to increase the visibility of open carry and public awareness about the practice.
proponents of खोलें carry पाइंट to इतिहास और statistics, noting that criminals usually conceal their weapons.
Encouraged by groups like OpenCarry.org, GeorgiaCarry.org and some participants of the Free State Project, open carry has seen a पुनरुद्धार in हाल सालो, लकिन it is नहीं yet साफ if इस represents just a short-term trend.
The gun rights community रै महरूम मिश्रित in इसके जवाब.
Alan Gottlieb of the Second Amendment Foundation and the NRA have been cautious in expressing support, while special-interest समूह ऐसे as the aforementioned opencarry.org और georgiacarry.org, और निश्चित नेशनल समूह ऐसे as the गन स्वामी of अमेरिका ( GOA ) have been more outspoken in favor of the practice.
Open carry is strongly opposed by gun control समूह ऐसे as the ब्रैडी अभियान और the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence.
The cattenom नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in France.
फ़्रांस produces around तीन quarters of इसके electricity by nuclear power.
the grafenrheinfeld नाभिकीय शक्ति Plant in Germany.
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition announced on may 30, 2011, कि germany’s 17 नाभिकीय शक्ति स्टेशन होगा be shut bas by 2022, in a नीति reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.
Currently, 68 रिएक्टरों हैं अंतर्गत निर्माण in 15 countries.
Nuclear power stations operate in तीस देशों.
In 2010, before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year, हालांकि according to the संसार नाभिकीय संघ, of the 17 civilian रिएक्टरों नियोजित to become operational between 2007 और 2009, only five actually came on stream.
As of जून 2011, जर्मनी and Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power.
As of June 2011, countries such as Australia, Austria, Denmark, Greece, आयरलैंड, इटली, लातवियाई, liechtenstein, ध्वज, मलेशिया, माल्टा, नई जीलैंड, नार्वे और पुर्तगाल remain opposed to nuclear power.
रंग गति चित्र फिल्मी refers दोनो to unexposed रंग फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक फिल्मी in a स्वरूप उपयुक्त लिये उपयोग in a motion picture camera, and to finished motion picture film, ready for use in a projector, which bears images in color.
The first color cinematography थी by अर्थात् of योगात्मक रंग प्रणालियों ऐसे as the एक patented in England by Edward Raymond Turner in 1899 and tested in 1902.
A simplified योगात्मक प्रणाली थी विकसित by जार्ज अल्बर्ट स्मिथ और सफलतापूर्वक commercialized in 1909 as Kinemacolor.
These early systems used black-and-white film to photograph and project दो or अधिक घटक बिंब through अलग रंग filters.
Still from footage अंकित by एडवर्ड टर्नर in 1902
With the present-day technology, there are two distinct प्रक्रियाओं : eastman रंग ऋणात्मक 2 रसायन ( कैमरा ऋणात्मक स्टॉक्स, duplicating interpositive और internegative stocks ) and Eastman Color Positive 2 chemistry ( positive prints for direct projection ), usually abbreviated as ECN-2 and ECP-2.
Fuji 's products are संगत साथ ECN-2 and ECP-2.
Ashanti Shequoiya Douglas ( born October 13, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter, रिकार्ड producer, and actress.
Ashanti is most famous for her eponymous debut album, which featured the hit song `` Foolish ``, और बेची over 503,000 नक़ल in इसके पहला सप्ताह of रिलीज throughout the U.S. in April 2002.
The album set a Soundscan रिकार्ड as the biggest खोलने सप्ताह बिक्री लिये a नई मादा कलाकार, outselling debuts by Alicia Keys and Lauryn Hill.
In the same week, she became the first female performer to simultaneously hold the top two स्थान on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 singles चार्ट साथ `` foolish '', और `` कया 's luv ? ``
( with मोटे जो ).
Ashanti broke records again by having three top ten songs, `` Foolish, '' `` What 's Luv ? '' and `` Always on Time ``, on the Billboard Hot 100 charts in the वही सप्ताह, होने the पहला स्त्री to accomplish इस feat और होने दूसरी तभी to the बीटल्स.
In 2003, the self-titled डेब्यू एल्बम जीती ashanti उसके पहला ग्रैमी Award for Best Contemporary R & B album.
As of अप्रैल 1st 2013, ashanti रै बेची over 27.7 million records worldwide.
ashanti ended the दशक ( 2000–09 ) as the तीसरा शीर्ष new R & B artist behind Alicia Keys and Beyoncé.
She also ended the decade at number 38 on the शीर्ष कलाकार of the दशक सूची.
She is currently on the list of The Twenty Best Selling Music singles चूंकि 1990 लिये उसके सिंगल foolish लिये selling 7.2 million copies to-date.
Ashanti has an estimated net लायक of $ 40 लाख डॉलर [ usd ].
Ashanti wrote and sang background on Jennifer Lopez 's `` Ai n't it मजेदार ( हत्या रिमिक्स ) ``, जिससे पहुँचे क्रमांक एक on बिलबोर्ड hot 100, जिससे थी भी in the शीर्ष 10 चार्ट at the वही time as `` Foolish '', `` Always on Time '' ( with Ja Rule ), and `` What 's Luv '' ( with Fat Joe ).
Later that year, she थी acclaimed as the `` राजकुमारी of hip-hop & r & b '' by उसके लेबल और capped off her successful debut by winning eight Billboard awards and two American Music Awards.
Within seven years of Ashanti 's करियर, वो रै scored 16 शीर्ष 40 हिट्स on the Hot 100.
Ashanti has endorsed numerous उत्पाद सहित Gap, Herbal Essences and Mudd Jeans.
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston, Janet Jackson, Prince, Madonna, Tupac Shakur, मरियम J. blige, एला fitzgerald, नशीले रॉबिन्सन, डोना गर्मियाँ, और ब्लू जादू as her musical influences.
Praised as a gifted songwriter by her peers and आलोचकों alike, ashanti रै written/co-written the bulk of all her music.
She is फिलहाल working on उसके अपना प्रकाशन कम्पनी हकदार Written Entertainment.
She released her fourth studio album हकदार the घोषणा on जून 3, 2008 और is फिलहाल in the studio working on her fifth.
She also performed the charity tune `` Just Stand up `` alongside 15 अन्य मादा गायकों लिये the `` स्टैंड up to Cancer '' live television special which helped raise $ 100 million dollars for cancer research.
The United States Army Air Forces ( USAAF or AAF ) was the military aviation arm of the United States of अमेरिका दौरान और तत्काल बाद संसार युद्ध ii, और the सीधा पूर्ववर्ती of the United States Air Force.
The AAF was a component of the United राज्य फौज, जिससे in 1942 थी विभाजित functionally by कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम into तीन autonomous शक्तियां : the Army Ground Forces, the Services of Supply ( which in 1943 became the Army Service Forces ), and the AAF.
Each of these forces had a commanding सामान्य जो reported सीधे to the मुख्य of स्टाफ of the United States Army.
The AAF administered all parts of military aviation formerly वितरित among the फौज एयर corps, सामान्य मुख्यालय एयर फ़ोर्स, और मैदान शक्तियां corps area commanders, and thus became the first air organization of the U.S. Army to control its own installations and support personnel.
In अभ्यास, the aaf थी virtually autonomous inside the Army.
The peak size of the AAF was over 2.4 million मेन और महिलाओं in सेवा और nearly 80,000 aircraft in 1944, and 783 domestic bases in December 1943.
By VE Day it had 1.25 million men stationed overseas and संचालित इससे अधिक than 1,600 airfields worldwide.
The Air Corps became the Army Air Forces in जून 1941 to provide the एयर भुजा a वृहद स्वायत्तता in जिससे to विस्तार more efficiently, and to provide a structure for the additional command echelons required by a vastly increased force.
Although other nations already had separate air forces independent of the army or नेवी ( ऐसे as the अंग्रेजों royal एयर फ़ोर्स और the जर्मनी luftwaffe ), the aaf remained a भाग of the संयुक्त राज्य फौज जबतक the संयुक्त राज्य एयर Force came into being in September 1947.
However, in its expansion और conduct of the युद्ध, the aaf became more than just an arm of the greater organization.
By the end of World War II the aaf था become वस्तुतः an independent service.
By regulation and executive order, the AAF was a subordinate agency of the War Department tasked only with organizing, प्रशिक्षण, और equipping कॉम्बैट इकाई, सीमित in जिम्मेदारी to the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य, as were the Army Ground Forces and the Army Service Forces.
in वास्तविकता, मुख्यालय aaf नियंत्रित the conduct of सब पहलुओं of the एयर युद्ध in प्रत्येक भाग of the world, determining air policy and issuing orders without transmitting them through the Chief of Staff.
This `` contrast between theory and fact is... आधारभूत to an समझना of the aaf. ''
The Freedom of Information Act ( FOIA ) is a federal freedom of सूचना विधि कि allows लिये the पूरा or आंशिक प्रकटीकरण of previously unreleased सूचना और documents controlled by the United States government.
The Act defines agency records subject to disclosure, outlines mandatory प्रकटीकरण प्रक्रियाओं और अनुदान नौ छूटों to the statute.
It was originally signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson, despite उसके misgivings, on जुलाई 4, 1966 as और गई into प्रभाव the following साल.
The Federal Government 's Freedom of Information Act should नहीं be उलझन साथ the अलग और varying स्वतंत्रता of सूचना अधिनियमों passed by the individual states.
Many of those state अधिनियमों may be समान लकिन नहीं एकसमान to the federal act.
The यूरोपीय संघ ( eu ) is an आर्थिक और राजनैतिक संघ of 27 member states that are located primarily in Europe.
The EU operates through a system of supranational स्वतंत्र संस्थानों और intergovernmental negotiated निर्णय by the member states.
Institutions of the EU include the European Commission, the Council of the यूरोपीय संघ, the यूरोपीय परिषद, the अदालत of इंसाफ of the यूरोपीय संघ, the European Central Bank, the Court of Auditors, and the European Parliament.
The यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट is elected every five years by EU citizens.
The EU 's de facto पूंजी is Brussels.
The EU traces its origins from the यूरोपीय कोयले और स्टील जातियाँ ( ecsc ) और the यूरोपीय आर्थिक जातियाँ ( eec ), formed by the भीतरी छह देशों in 1951 and 1958 respectively.
In the intervening years the community and its successors have grown in आकार by the accession of नई सदस्य राज्य और in शक्ति by the addition of policy areas to its remit.
The Maastricht सन्धि स्थापित the यूरोपीय संघ under its current name in 1993.
The latest major amendment to the संवैधानिक आधार of the EU, the Treaty of Lisbon, came into force in 2009.
The EU has developed a single market through a standardised प्रणाली of कानून कि लागू in सब सदस्य states.
Within the शेंगेन क्षेत्रफल ( जिससे शामिल 22 eu और 4 non-eu राज्य ) पासपोर्ट controls have been abolished.
EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people, goods, सेवाएं, और पूंजी, enact विधान in इंसाफ और घर अफेयर्स, और maintain आम नीतियों on व्यापार, agriculture, fisheries and regional development.
A मौद्रिक संघ, the eurozone, थी स्थापित in 1999 and is composed of 17 member states.
through the आम विदेशी और सुरक्षा नीति the eu रै developed a role in external relations and defence.
Permanent राजनयिक मिशन have महरूम स्थापित around the world.
The EU is represented at the United राष्ट्र, the wto, the g8 और the g-20.
With a combined population of over 500 million inhabitants, or 7.3 % of the संसार जनसांख्यिकी, the eu, in 2012, उत्पन्न a नाममात्र सकल घरेलू उत्पाद ( जीडीपी ) of 16.584 खरब us डॉलर, representing लगभग 20 % of the global GDP when measured in terms of purchasing power parity, and represents the largest nominal GDP and GDP PPP in the world.
The EU was the प्राप्तकर्ता of the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize.
The Wales national rugby league team represent Wales in अंतरराष्ट्रीय रग्बी लीग फ़ुटबॉल मिलान.
Currently the team is seventh in the rlif संसार rankings.
The team were run under the auspices of the Rugby Football League, but an independent देह, वेल्स रग्बी लीग, अभी रनों the टोली इससे कार्डिफ.
A total of three Welsh players have महरूम डाला into the रग्बी लीग हॉल Of Fame.
Similar to many other Welsh national sporting टीमों, वेल्स स्ट्रिप रै महरूम primarily रेड लिये अनेक सालो, सहित now.
However in their last World Cup campaign in 2000 they did wear a shirt featuring the वेल्श ध्वज, adding a टच of green and white.
The team is known as `` The Dragons '' and so the टीमों लोगो on the कमीज़ is a रेड ड्रैगन.
The team date back to 1907, बनाना उन्हें the तीसरा oldest नेशनल पक्ष बाद England and New Zealand.
And it was a touring नई जीलैंड पक्ष कि वेल्स पहला निभाई against in 1908, winning 9-8 at Aberdare.
Since then Wales have regularly played England, since 1935 France, as well as welcomed the touring Australia and नई जीलैंड टीमों, हालांकि वे rarely toured themselves, नहीं playing a मैच in the दक्षिणी Hemisphere until 1975.
For twenty-six years Wales competed against their two biggest rivals, England and फ़्रांस, in the यूरोपीय राष्ट्र कप, जीतना the ट्रॉफी चार times.
Wales have भी competed in the संसार कप on तीन occasions, the first time being in 1975.
In 1995 and 2000 they had उनके सबसे कामयाब tournaments to तिथि, surprisingly बनाना the Semi-Finals on both occasions before being beaten by England and Australia respectively.
Wales failed to qualify लिये the 2008 संसार कप, होने the दूसरी उच्चतम क्रमित पक्ष नहीं to do so, having lost to Scotland on points difference over two matches.
In 2008 Australian John Dixon became the new सिर कोच और नियुक्त ली briers as कप्तान, having निभाई लिये Wales since 1998.
In हाल सीज़न वेल्स have लिया विशाल strides अंतर्गत पूर्व खिलाड़ी iestyn हैरिस जो रै coached वेल्स to back to back European Cup successes, which culminated in a Four Nations appearance in 2011.
Cardiomyopathy ( literally `` heart muscle disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the function of the myocardium ( the heart muscle ) for any reason, प्रायः अग्रणी to दिल विफलता ; आम लक्षण हैं dyspnea ( breathlessness ) और परिधीय एडिमा ( सूजन of the टाँगे ).
लोगों साथ cardiomyopathy हैं प्रायः at रिस्क of खतरनाक forms of irregular heart beat and sudden cardiac death.
The most common form of cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy.
Fuck in its literal meaning refers to the अधिनियम of यौन मैथुन.
It is an अंग्रेज़ी शब्द कि is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a profanity, either to denote disdain or as an intensifier.
The उत्पत्ति of the word is obscure.
It is usually considered to be पहला attested to around 1475, लकिन it may be considerably older.
In modern usage, fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be प्रयुक्त in the स्थिति of a संज्ञा, a क्रिया, an क्रियाशील or an adverb.
वहीँ हैं अनेक आम वाक्यांश जिससे मेक उपयोग of the शब्द, as well as a number of compounds incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
Note : this article adopts the U.S. विभाग of परिवहन 's परिभाषा of a यात्री गाडी, to औसत a car or ट्रक, used for passengers, excluding buses and trains.
The United States is home to the largest यात्री गाडी मार्केट of कोई देश in the संसार.
Overall, there were an estimated 254.4 लाख पंजीकृत यात्री वाहनों in the संयुक्त राज्य according to a 2007 DOT study.
This number, साथ साथ the औसत आयु of वाहनों, रै increased steadily since 1960, indicating a growing number of vehicles per capita.
The Chinese car market, however, is poised to जल्द exceed the संयुक्त राज्य ; by the समाप्त of 2012, there were over 240 million cars on the road in China.
The United States is also home to three large vehicle manufacturers : General Motors, Ford Motor Company and क्रिसलर, जिससे have historically महरूम referred to as the `` बिग तीन. ''
Chrysler however is no longer among the शीर्ष तीन ; लकिन is क्रमांक पाँच, पीछे टोयोटा and Honda.
the मोटर car रै clearly become an अभिन्न भाग of अमरीकी life, with vehicles outnumbering licensed drivers.
Clinical प्रयोगशाला in a हॉस्पिटल सेटिंग प्रर्दशित अनेक स्वचालित analysers.
A medical laboratory or clinical laboratory is a laboratory where परीक्षण हैं किया on नैदानिक नमूनों in अनुक्रम to मिलेंगी सूचना परिचय the स्वास्थ्य of a रोगी as pertaining to the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of disease.
In poker, players construct hands of five cards according to predetermined नियम, जिससे vary according to जिससे रूपांतर of पोकर is being played.
These hands are compared using a हाथ रैंकिंग प्रणाली कि is मानक आरपार सब विसंगतियाँ of poker, the player with the highest-ranking hand winning that particular deal in most variants of poker.
In some विसंगतियाँ, the lowest-ranking hand can win or tie.
These hand rankings हैं भी प्रयुक्त in कुछ अन्य कार्ड खेल, and in poker dice.
The ranking of a particular hand is increased by including अनेक ताश of the वही कार्ड रैंक, by सब पाँच ताश होने from the same suit, or by all five cards being of consecutive rank.
The relative ranking of the various hand श्रेणी is आधारित on the संभाव्यता of being randomly dealt such a hand from a well- shuffled deck.
Bruce रान्डेल hornsby ( born नवम्बर 23, 1954 ) is an अमरीकी virtuoso ; a सिंगर, pianist, synthesizer, accordion, and dulcimer player, and songwriter.
Known for the spontaneity and creativity of his live performances, Hornsby draws अक्सर इससे शास्त्रीय, जैज़, ब्लूग्रास, लोक, motown, इन्जील, चट्टान, ब्लूज़, और jam बैंड musical परंपराओं साथ उसके songwriting और the seamless improvisations contained within.
Hornsby 's recordings have been recognised on a क्रमांक of अवसरों साथ उद्योग पुरस्कार, सहित the बेहतरीन नई कलाकार ग्रैमी in 1987 साथ ब्रूस hornsby और the दायरा, the बेहतरीन ब्लूग्रास Recording Grammy in 1990, and the Best Pop Instrumental Grammy in 1993.
Hornsby has also हासिल मान्यता लिये उसके सोलो एल्बम और प्रदर्शन, उसके touring बैंड ब्रूस hornsby और the noisemakers, उसके ब्लूग्रास प्रोजेक्ट साथ रिकी Skaggs and his appearances as a session- and guest-musician.
He also collaborated with Grateful Dead and was a member of the बैंड इससे सितंबर 1990 to कूच 1992, playing at over एक सौ shows during that period.
Sugarcane plantation in ग्रामीण क्यूबा
कृषि in क्यूबा रै निभाई an महत्वपूर्ण part in the economy for several hundred years.
Agriculture contributes कम than 10 प्रतिशत to the सकल घरेलू उत्पाद ( GDP ), but it employs roughly 20 percent of the working population.
परिचय 30 प्रतिशत of the देश 's land is used for crop cultivation.
The अकुशल agricultural उद्योग in क्यूबा has led to the need to import large amounts of foods.
Cuba now imports परिचय 80 % of the खाना it rations to the public.
The rationing कार्यक्रम खाते लिये परिचय a तीसरा of the खाना उर्जा the औसत Cuban consumes.
Overall, however, Cuba is निर्भर on imports लिये तभी 16 % of its food.
सही
Mega Millions ( initially पुकारा the बिग खेल आचमन लाखो as the successor of the Big Game ) is an American multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery game.
The first ( The Big Game ) Mega लाखो आरेखण थी in 2002 ( see below ).
The minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000, सशुल्क in 26 बराबर वार्षिक किश्तों ( जबतक the cash option is chosen ) ; usually, the jackpot increases when there is no top-prize winner.
However, despite no जैकपॉट विजेता लिये the $ 12,000,000 दिसम्बर 18, 2012 आरेखण, the jackpot remained at $ 12,000,000 for the drawing to be held on December 21.
( See below लिये सूचना on कैसा the game 's jackpot is funded. )
Reflecting common practice among American lotteries, the जैकपॉट is advertised as a नाममात्र मान of annual installments.
A cash value विकल्प ( the usual चुनाव ), जब चुनी by a जैकपॉट विजेता ( देखिए नीचे ), pays the approximate present value of the installments.
Mega लाखो फिलहाल उपयोग a 5/56 ( श्वेत गेंदें ) प्लस 1/46 ( the आचमन बॉल ) double matrix to select its winning numbers.
Each game लागत $ 1.
In 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions ( कैलिफ़ोर्निया is the एक्सेप्शन ), वहीँ is an विकल्प, पुकारा megaplier ( ऐसे खेल are $ 2 each ) where non-jackpot prizes are multiplied by 2, 3, or 4.
The Megaplier was made available to all Mega लाखो jurisdictions in जनवरी 2011 ; it began as a टेक्सास -only option.
Mega लाखो is drawn at 10:59 p.m. पूर्वी समय मंगलवार and Fridays, including holidays.
Mega Millions is administered by a consortium of इसके 12 original lotteries and the drawings are held at WSB-TV in Atlanta, Georgia.
पर्यवेक्षित by the Georgia Lottery.
The largest jackpot in Mega Millions, as well as in American lottery history, was $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( with a cash option of $ 474,000,000 ) लिये the कूच 30, 2012 आरेखण in जिससे वहीँ यहूद three jackpot-winning tickets ; one each in Illinois, Kansas, and Maryland.
All three tickets था महरूम claimed as of अप्रैल 18, साथ प्रत्येक नियत of winners choosing the cash option.
is a जापानी manga श्रेणी निर्मित by लेखक tsugumi Ohba and manga artist Takeshi Obata.
The main अक्षर is लाइट yagami, a ऊँची स्कूल छात्र जो discovers a अलौकिक notebook, the `` Death Note '', dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a god of death ) named Ryuk.
the मौत नोट अनुदान इसके उपयोक्ता the क्षमता to kill anyone whose name and face they know, by writing the name in the notebook while picturing their face.
The series centers around Light 's attempt to create and rule a world `` cleansed of evil '' as `` परमेश्वर '' using the कोपी, और the प्रयत्न of a जासूस known as L to stop him.
Death Note was first serialized in 108 अध्याय by shueisha in the जापानी manga magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump from December 2003 to May 2006.
The series was also published in tankōbon format in Japan starting in May 2004 और समाप्ति in अक्तूबर 2006 साथ a total of thirteen volumes.
the दुश्मनी श्रेणी aired in Japan from October 3, 2006, to June 26, 2007.
Composed of 37 episodes, the दुश्मनी थी विकसित by Madhouse and directed by Tetsuro Araki.
A light novel based on the श्रेणी, लिखा by nisio isin, थी released in Japan.
additionally, विभिन्न वीडियो games have been published by Konami for Nintendo DS.
The series was adapted into live-action films released in जापानी on जून 17, 2006, नवम्बर 3, 2006, और फ़रवरी 2, 2008.
Viz Media licensed the Death Note manga in North America and has published सब the बारह आयतन इससे the श्रेणी, a 13th आवाज़ जिससे serves as a `` reader 's guide '', as well as the light novels.
The episodes from the anime पहला appeared in उत्तर अमेरिका as downloadable by IGN.
Viz later licensed the दुश्मनी श्रेणी और it aired on bionix in कनाडा और on कार्टून संजाल in the United States.
The live-action films briefly निभाई in certain North American theaters since 2008.
However, none of the video games have thus far महरूम प्रकाशित in उत्तर अमेरिका or यूरोपीय.
Death Note is one of Weekly shōnen jumps best-selling manga श्रेणी of सब समय, साथ बिक्री over 26.5 million copies.
हैलोवीन or hallowe'en ( a संकुचन of `` सब hallows ' संध्या `` ), भी ज्ञात as सब hallows ' संध्या, is a वार्षिक जश्न observed in a number of countries on October 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
according to अनेक विद्वानों, सब hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally influenced by western European harvest festivals, and festivals of the dead with possible pagan roots, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
Other विद्वानों maintain कि it originated independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots.
Typical festive हैलोवीन क्रियाएँ शामिल trick-or-treating ( भी ज्ञात as `` guising `` ), उपस्थित वेशभूषा पार्टियों, नक्काशी pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, ठहराना bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, playing pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
नई यॉर्क नगर taxicabs दौरान Midtown rush hour in Manhattan
The taxicabs of New York City, with उनके distinctive पीला पेंट, हैं a widely recognized icon of the city.
Taxicabs are operated by private companies and licensed by the नई यॉर्क नगर टैक्सी और लिमोज़ीन Commission ( TLC ).
It भी oversees over 40,000 अन्य for-hire वाहनों, सहित `` ब्लैक गाड़ियाँ '', commuter vans and ambulettes.
`` Medallion taxis, '' the familiar yellow कैब, हैं the तभी वाहनों in the नगर permitted to चुनें up यात्री in response to a street hail.
Schematic cross section of भाग of पत्ता, जाइलम दिखाया as रेड circles at figure 8.
Xylem is one of the दो प्रकार of हस्तांतरण ऊतक in vascular plants ( phloem is the other ).
The word जाइलम is निकला इससे the यूनानी शब्द ξύλον ( xylon ), अर्थ `` लकडी '' ; the best-known xylem tissue is wood, though it is found throughout the plant.
Its basic function is to transport water, but it भी transports कुछ nutrients through the plant.
U.S. women suffragists demonstrating लिये the सही to vote, फ़रवरी 1913.
Women 's suffrage भी ज्ञात as स्त्री suffrage is the सही of women to vote and to run for office.
Limited मतदान अधिकारों यहूद gained by महिलाओं in स्वीडन, फिनलैंड और some western U.S. states in the late 19th century.
International organizations were formed to coordinate efforts, विशेषकर the अंतरराष्ट्रीय परिषद of महिलाओं ( 1888 ) और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्त्री suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ).
In 1893, New Zealand, then a self-governing British colony, granted adult women the right to vote and the self-governing अंग्रेजों उपनिवेश of दक्षिण ऑस्ट्रेलिया किया the वही in 1895, लकिन भी permitted women to run for office.
Australia federated in 1901, and women acquired the right to vote और स्टैंड in संघीय चुनावों इससे 1902, हालांकि uneven प्रतिबंध on Aboriginal women voting in national elections were not completely removed until 1962.
The first European country to introduce women 's suffrage was the ग्रैंड duchy of फिनलैंड, तब भाग of the रूसी साम्राज्य, जिससे भी उत्पादित the संसार 's पहला मादा members of parliament in the 1907 parliamentary elections.
नार्वे followed, granting full women 's suffrage in 1913.
In most Western देशों, महिलाओं 's suffrage आए बाद संसार i युद्ध I I, with some important late adopters being France in 1944 and Switzerland in 1971.
Women 's suffrage रै generally महरूम पहचाना बाद राजनैतिक campaigns to obtain it were waged.
in अनेक देशों it थी granted पहले universal suffrage.
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a right under the Convention on the Elimination of सब फ़ॉर्म of पक्षपात विरूद्ध महिलाओं, अपनाया by the संयुक्त Nations in 1979.
The Thirteenth Tale ( 2006 ) by डायने setterfield is a गोथिक suspense novel, the author 's first published book.
Jehovah 's Witnesses is a millenarian restorationist Christian denomination with nontrinitarian beliefs distinct from mainstream Christianity.Sources for descriptors : • Millenarian : • Restorationist : • Christian : • Denomination : The organization reports worldwide membership of over 7.78 लाख adherents शामिल in इंजीलवाद, सम्मेलन उपस्थिति of over 12 लाख, और सालाना मेमोरियल उपस्थिति of over 19 million.
They are directed by the Governing Body of Jehovah 's गवाह, a समूह of बड़ो in ब्रुकलीन, नई यॉर्क, कि establishes सब doctrines.
Jehovah 's Witnesses ' मान्यताओं हैं आधारित on उनके interpretations of the बाइबल और वे prefer to use their own translation, the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures.
They believe कि the विनाश of the उपस्थित संसार प्रणाली at armageddon is निकट, और कि the स्थापना of God 's kingdom on earth is the only solution for all problems faced by mankind.
The group emerged from the Bible Student movement —founded in the लेट 1870s by चार्ल्स taze रसेल साथ the गठन of zion 's देखें मीनार ट्रैक्ट समाज —with significant organizational and doctrinal changes under the leadership of Joseph Franklin Rutherford.
The name Jehovah 's witnesses, based on Isaiah 43:10–12, थी अपनाया in 1931 to फर्क themselves इससे अन्य बाइबल छात्र समूह और symbolize a ब्रेक साथ the legacy of Russell 's traditions.
Jehovah 's Witnesses are best known for their door-to-door preaching, distributing साहित्य ऐसे as the बुर्ज और जाग !
, and refusing military सेवा और रक्त transfusions.
They consider use of the नाम यहोवा vital लिये proper worship.
They reject Trinitarianism, inherent immortality of the soul, and hellfire, जिससे वे consider to be unscriptural doctrines.
They do not observe Christmas, ईस्टर, जन्मदिन, or अन्य छुट्टियाँ और कस्टम वे consider to have pagan origins incompatible with Christianity.
Adherents commonly refer to उनके देह of मान्यताओं as `` the सच्चाई '' और consider themselves to be `` in the truth ''.
They consider secular समाज to be morally भ्रष्ट और अंतर्गत the influence of शैतानी, और सबसे सीमा उनके social interaction with non-Witnesses.
संकीर्तन अनुशासनात्मक क्रियाएँ शामिल disfellowshipping, उनके term for formal expulsion and shunning.
Baptized individuals जो formally छोड़ हैं माना disassociated and are also shunned.
Disfellowshipped and disassociated individuals may आखिरकार be reinstated if deemed repentant.
The religion 's position regarding conscientious objection to military service and refusal to सलाम नेशनल ध्वज रै brought it into विरोध साथ कुछ सरकारें.
Consequently, यहोवा 's गवाह have महरूम persecuted और उनके क्रियाएँ हैं banned or restricted in some countries.
Persistent विधिक चुनौतियां by यहोवा 's गवाह have बहकावे legislation related to civil rights in several countries.
पिछला टैंगो in पेरिस ( ) is a 1972 franco-italian रोमांटिक नाटक फिल्मी निर्देशित by बर्नार्डो bertolucci जिससे portrays a recent American widower who begins an anonymous sexual relationship with a young, betrothed Parisian woman.
it सितारों मार्लोन ब्रैंडो, मरिया श्नाइडर, and Jean-Pierre Léaud.
The film 's raw portrayal of sexual violence and emotional turmoil led to अंतरराष्ट्रीय विवाद और खींचा विभिन्न स्तर of government censorship.
The MPAA gave the फिल्मी an x दरजा upon release in the United States.
After revisions यहूद बना to the mpaa दरजा code, it was classified as an NC-17 in 1997.
MGM released a censored r-rated काटें in 1981.
The film has its nc-17 दरजा लिये `` कुछ सुस्पष्ट sexual content. ''
Windows XP is an ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली उत्पादित by microsoft लिये उपयोग on निजी कंप्यूटर, including home and business desktops, laptops and media centers.
पहला released to कंप्यूटर निर्माताओं on अगस्त 24, 2001, it is the दूसरी सबसे लोकप्रिय version of Windows, based on installed user base.
The name `` XP '' is short for `` eXPerience '', highlighting the उन्नत उपयोक्ता अनुभव.
Windows XP, the successor to Windows 2000 and Windows ME, was the पहला consumer-oriented operating system produced by Microsoft to be built on the Windows NT kernel.
खिड़कियाँ xp थी released विश्वव्यापी लिये खुदरा बिक्री on अक्तूबर 25, 2001, and over 400 million copies were in use in January 2006.
It was succeeded by खिड़कियाँ विस्टा in जनवरी 2007.
Direct OEM and retail sales of खिड़कियाँ xp ceased on जून 30, 2008.
Microsoft continued to sell Windows XP through their System Builders ( smaller oems जो बेचें समवेत कंप्यूटर ) कार्यक्रम until January 31, 2009.
On April 10, 2012, Microsoft reaffirmed that extended support for Windows XP and Office 2003 would end on अप्रैल 8, 2014 और सुझाया कि प्रशासकों शुरू तैयारी to migrate to a newer OS.
The NT -based versions of Windows, which are programmed in C, C++, and सभा, हैं ज्ञात लिये उनके improved stability and efficiency over the 9x versions of Microsoft Windows.
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned graphical user इंटरफ़ेस, a बदलें microsoft प्रचारित as अधिक user-friendly than पिछला संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ.
In an attempt to further ameliorate the `` DLL hell `` that plagued the past संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ, improved side-by-side सभा प्रौद्योगिकी in खिड़कियाँ xp allows side-by-side संस्थापना, पंजीकरण और सर्विसिंग of अनेक संस्करण of globally साझा तन्त्र components in full isolation.
it is भी the पहला संस्करण of Windows to use product activation to combat illegal copying.
During Windows XP 's विकास, the प्रोजेक्ट थी codenamed `` whistler '', बाद whistler, अंग्रेजों कोलंबिया, as अनेक microsoft employees skied at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort.
According to web analytics data generated by Net अनुप्रयोग, खिड़कियाँ xp थी the सबसे widely प्रयुक्त ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली until August 2012, when Windows 7 overtook it.
, Windows XP market share is at 38.99 %, having decreased almost every month since at least नवम्बर 2007, the पहला माह लिये जिससे आंकडे are publicly available from Net Applications.
`` Por una Cabeza '' is an Argentine tango साथ म्यूज़िक और गीत लिखा in 1935 by कार्लोस gardel और अल्फ्रेडो le Pera respectively.
the नाम is a स्पेनी horse-racing phrase अर्थ `` by a सिर '', जिससे refers to a horse winning a race by the length of one head.
The lyrics speak of a compulsive horse-track gambler who compares उसके व्यसन लिये घोड़े साथ उसके attraction to women.
Alfredo Le Pera was a Brazilian from São Paulo, a much Italian-influenced area in ब्राज़ील, और भी the जन्मस्थान of zequinha de abreu, composer of tico-tico no Fubá.
Le Pera and gardel died in an वायुयान क्रैश in medellín, ( Colombia ), on June 24, 1935.
पोर ऊना Cabeza
The tango has since been performed by numerous टैंगो orchestras.
Tango scenes with `` Por una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ), Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), Schindler 's List ( 1993 ), True झूठ ( 1994 ), टाइटैनिक ( 1996 ), ख़राब सांता ( uncut संस्करण, 2003 ), सब the किंग 's Men ( 2006 ), Planet 51 ( 2009 ), episode 37 of Nip/Tuck ( 2003–2010 ), episode 9 of South Korean drama series Sweet Spy ( 2005–08 ), the beginning and ending credits of the South Korean drama broadcast I 'm Sorry, I Love You ( 2004 ), and the episode `` Down the Rabbit Hole `` ( 2007 ).
In the फिल्म frida ( सलमा हायेक, 2002 ), Gardel is heard singing it on a radio.
It is भी कोटेड in दाउद डेल Tredici 's `` Good News !
Nilda is Back '' ( इससे the सोंग साईकिल Miz Inez Sez ).
In Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ), the tango is performed by the `` The Tango Project '', who actually appear in the नाचना झाँकी अभिनीत al पचिनो ( the रिकॉर्डिंग प्रयुक्त is उपलब्धियाँ on one of their CD albums ).
John विलियम्स arranged a संस्करण of the टुकड़ा कि appears on the एल्बम `` सिनेमा Serenade '' with the violin solo performed by Itzhak Perlman.
Perlman and Williams ( conducting ) have भी performed the टुकड़ा साथ in सजीव concerts.
In 2012 a dance version was released by the समूह `` da करेरा '' featuring the असली vocal recording by Carlos Gardel.
The baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is एक of the देह 's homeostatic mechanisms for maintaining blood pressure.
It provides a negative feedback लूप in जिससे an elevated रक्त दबाव reflexively कल्याणकारी दिल रेट to घटी इसलिए causing blood pressure to decrease ; likewise, decreased blood pressure activates the baroreflex, causing heart rate to increase thus causing an increase in blood pressure.
The system relies on specialized न्यूरॉन्स, ज्ञात as baroreceptors, in the aortic मेहराब, carotid साइनस, and elsewhere to monitor changes in blood pressure and relay them to the brainstem.
Subsequent changes in blood pressure are mediated by the autonomic बेचैन प्रणाली.
Atrial natriuretic peptide forms a parallel negative feedback loop in an endocrinological कंट्रास्ट to the renin-angiotensin प्रणाली.
The Loma Prieta earthquake, भी ज्ञात as the भूकंप of '89 और the संसार श्रेणी भूकंप, थी a प्रमुख भूकंप कि struck the सैन Francisco Bay Area of California on October 17, 1989, at 5:04 pm local time.
Caused by a slip along the San Andreas Fault, the quake lasted 10–15 सेकेंड और measured 6.9 on दोनो the पल परिमाण स्केल ( surface-wave magnitude 7.1 ) and on the open-ended Richter Scale.
The quake killed 63 people throughout northern California, injured 3,757 और बाएँ कुछ 3,000–12,000 लोगों बेघर.
The earthquake occurred during the warm-up practice for the third game of the 1989 World Series, featuring both of the Bay Area 's प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल टीमों, the ओकलैंड एथलेटिक्स और the सैन Francisco Giants.
Because of game-related खेल कवरेज, इस थी the पहला प्रमुख भूकंप in the United States to have its initial jolt broadcast live on television.
साहूकार in the मानक staunton pattern
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the most numerous and in most हालातों the weakest टुकड़ा in the खेल of शतरंज, historically representing infantry or, more particularly, armed peasants or pikemen.
In chess, each player begins the खेल साथ आठ प्यादे, एक on प्रत्येक वर्गाकार of the रैंक तत्काल in front of the other pieces.
( In algebraic notation, the white pawns start on a2, b2, c2,..., h2, while black प्यादे प्रारंभ on a7, b7, c7,..., h7. )
Individual pawns are referred to by the संचिका on जिससे they stand.
For उदाहरण, एक बोलती of `` श्वेत 's f-pawn '' or `` ब्लैक 's b-pawn '', or कम commonly ( using descriptive notation ), `` White 's king 's bishop pawn '' or `` Black 's queen 's knight pawn ''.
It is also common to refer to a rook pawn, meaning कोई साहूकार on the a- or h-file, a नाईट साहूकार ( on the b- or g-file ), a बिशप साहूकार ( on the c- or f-file ), a queen pawn ( on the d-file ), a king pawn ( on the e-file ), and a central pawn ( on either the d- or e-file ).
The military forces of the world have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay and lesbian ) and bisexual individuals.
The armed forces of most developed countries have अभी removed नीतियों excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( साथ सख्त policies on sexual harassment ).
Nations that permit gay people to serve openly in the military include the 4 of the 5 members of the UN Security Council ( United राज्य, संयुक्त किंगडम, फ़्रांस, और रूस ), the गणतंत्र of चीन ( ताईवान ), ऑस्ट्रेलिया, इसराईल, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, अर्जेंटीना, और सब नाटो सदस्यों excluding Turkey.
हाइड्रोजन उत्पादन is the परिवार of औद्योगिक methods for generating hydrogen.
Currently the dominant प्रौद्योगिकी लिये सीधा उत्पादन is भाप reforming from hydrocarbons.
अनेक अन्य विधि हैं known including electrolysis and thermolysis.
In 2006, the United States was estimated to have a उत्पादन क्षमता of 11 लाख टन of hydrogen.
5 million tonnes of hydrogen were consumed on-site in आयल शोधन, और in the उत्पादन of अमोनिया ( haber प्रक्रम ) और methanol ( reduction of carbon monoxide ).
0.4 लाख टन यहूद an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali process.
Hydrogen production is an अनुमानित $ 100 अरब उद्योग.
A basis point ( often denoted as bp, colloquially referred to in the plural as `` bips '', भी ज्ञात as a `` बीप '' ) is a ईकाई बराबर to एक hundredth of a प्रतिशत पाइंट, or one part per ten thousand, 1/10000.
The same unit is also ( rarely ) called a permyriad, literally meaning 'for ( every ) myriad ( ten thousand ) ', and in that context is written साथ जिससे looks जैसे a प्रतिशत चिह्न ( % ) साथ दो अतिरिक्त zeroes at the समाप्त ( जैसे a stylized रूप of the चार zeros in the denominator, हालांकि it originates as a natural extension of the percent ( % ) and permille ( ‰ ) signs ).
A basis point is पारिभाषित as:
1 basis point = 1 permyriad = one one-hundredth प्रतिशत
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 % = 0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100 bp = 100
Basis points are used as a convenient unit of मापन in contexts जहाँ प्रतिशत मतभेद of कम than 1 % are discussed.
The most common उदाहरण is ब्याज दरों, जहाँ मतभेद in ब्याज दरों of कम than 1 % प्रति साल are usually meaningful to talk about.
For example, a difference of 0.10 percentage points is equivalent to a change of 10 basis points ( e.g. a 4.67 % रेट increases by 10 आधार points to 4.77 % ).
Like percentage points, basis points avoid the ambiguity between सापेक्ष और निरपेक्ष चर्चाएँ परिचय ब्याज दरों by dealing तभी साथ the absolute change in numeric value of a rate.
For example, if a report says there has been a `` 1 % increase '' from a 10 % ब्याज रेट, इस could refer to an बढ़ाएँ either इससे 10 % to 10.1 % ( सापेक्ष, 1 % of 10 % ), or from 10 % to 11 % ( absolute, 1 % plus 10 % ).
If, however, the report says there has been a `` 10 basis point increase '' from a 10 % interest rate, तब we जान कि the ब्याज रेट of 10 % रै increased by 0.10 % ( the निरपेक्ष बदलें ) to a 10.1 % rate.
It is common practice in the financial उद्योग to उपयोग आधार अंक to denote a रेट बदलें in a वित्तीय यंत्र, or the अंतर ( स्प्रेड ) between two interest rates, including the yields of fixed-income securities.
Since certain loans and bonds may commonly be quoted in संबंध to कुछ अनुक्रमणिका or underlying सुरक्षा, वे होगा प्रायः be कोटेड as a स्प्रेड over ( or अंतर्गत ) the index.
For example, a loan that bears interest of 0.50 % per annum ऊपर the लंदन interbank offered रेट ( libor ) is कहा to be 50 आधार अंक over libor, जिससे is commonly expressed as `` L+50bps '' or simply `` L+50 ''.
The पद `` आधार पाइंट '' रै इसके origins in व्यापार the `` basis '' or the spread between two interest rates.
चूंकि the आधार is प्रायः छोटी, ये हैं कोटेड multiplied up by 10000, and hence a `` full point '' movement in the `` basis '' is a basis point.
कंट्रास्ट साथ pips in FX forward markets.
The relationship between percentage changes and basis points can be summarized as फ़ॉलो : 1 प्रतिशत पाइंट बदलें = 100 आधार अंक, और 0.01 प्रतिशत अंक = 1 basis point.
So, a bond whose yield increases from 5 % to 5.5 % is said to increase by 50 basis अंक ; or ब्याज दरों कि have risen 1 प्रतिशत पाइंट हैं कहा to have increased by 100 basis points.
The British Royal परिवार is the समूह of बंद relatives of the monarch of the United Kingdom.
The term is also commonly applied to the same group of people who are the relations of the monarch in her or his role as sovereign of कोई of the अन्य राष्ट्रमंडल realms, यूँ sometimes at variance साथ आधिकारिक नेशनल शर्तें for the family.
Members of the Royal Family belong to, either by जनम or विवाह, the हाउस of विंडसर, चूंकि 1917, जब जार्ज v बदला the name of the royal house from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.
This decision was primarily taken because Britain and her Empire were at war with Germany and given the British Royal Family 's strong जर्मनी ancestry ; it थी लगा कि इसके पब्लिक चित्र could be improved by चुनना a अधिक अंग्रेजों house name.
The new name चुनी, विंडसर, था बिल्कुल no कनेक्शन अन्य than as the name of the castle which was and continues to be a royal residence.
Although in the United Kingdom there is no strict legal or formal definition of who is or is not a member of the Royal Family, and different lists will include different people, those carrying the style Her or His majesty ( hm ), or उसके or उसके royal highness ( hrh ) हैं सदा माना सदस्यों, जिससे प्रायः परिणाम in the अनुप्रयोग of the पद to the monarch, the consort of the monarch, the विधवा consorts of पिछला monarchs, the children of the monarch और पिछला monarchs, the male-line grandchildren of the monarch and previous monarchs, and the spouses and the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line grandsons.
On 30 November 1917, King George V जारी अक्षर पेटेंट धमक जो हैं सदस्यों of the Royal Family ; the text of the notice from the London Gazette is as follows:
In 1996, Her Majesty The Queen modified ये अक्षर पेटेंट, as थी evidenced by इस सूचना इससे the London Gazette:
In 2013 Letters Patent were issued to extend a शीर्षक और a स्टाइल borne by सदस्यों of the royal परिवार to additional persons to be born, evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
Members and relatives of the British Royal Family historically represented the monarch in various places throughout the British Empire, sometimes for extended अवधि as viceroys, or लिये विशिष्ट ceremonies or events.
Today, वे प्रायः perform ceremonial और सोशल कर्तव्य throughout the संयुक्त किंगडम and abroad on behalf of the United Kingdom.
Aside from the monarch, their only संवैधानिक भूमिका in the अफेयर्स of सरकारी is to serve, if योग्य और जब नियुक्त by अक्षर पेटेंट, as a काउंसलर of राज्य, दो or अधिक of जिसको कसरत the प्राधिकार of the Crown ( within stipulated limits ) in the indisposal or absence from the British realm of the monarch.
In the other realms of the राष्ट्रमंडल रॉयल्टी do नहीं serve as Counsellors of State.
However in each such realm the monarch 's family members may act on निमित्त of, हैं वित्तपोषित by, और represent the sovereign of that particular state, and not the United Kingdom.
The Queen, her consort, her children and grandchildren, as well as all पूर्व अधिपति ' children और grandchildren थाम स्थान in the पहला भाग of the आधिकारिक आदेश of पूर्वता in इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स, स्कॉटलैंड, and Northern Ireland.
Wives of the said enjoy their husbands ' precedence, and husbands of राजकुमारियों हैं unofficially लकिन habitually लगाई साथ their wives as well.
However, the Queen changed the private order of precedence in the Royal Family in favour of Princesses Anne and Alexandra, who henceforth take private precedence over the duchess of कॉर्नवॉल, जो is वरना the फ्रेम 's उच्चतम रैंकिंग स्त्री बाद the महारानी herself.
She did not alter the relative precedence of other born-princesses, ऐसे as the बेटियां of उसके younger बेटे.
Haiti ( ; Haitian Creole Ayiti ), officially the गणतंत्र of हैती ( ; ), is a caribbean country.
it occupies the पश्चिमी, छोटी portion of the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला, in the Greater Antillean archipelago, which it shares with the Dominican Republic.
ayiti ( जमीन of ऊँची kyu ) थी the स्वदेशी taíno or amerindian name for the island.
The country 's उच्चतम पाइंट is pic la selle, at.
The total क्षेत्रफल of हैती is और इसके पूंजी is Port-au-Prince.
Haitian Creole and फ्रेंच हैं the आधिकारिक भाषाएं.
Haiti 's regional, ऐतिहासिक, और ethno-linguistic स्थिति is unique for several reasons.
It was the first independent nation of Latin America and the caribbean, the पहला ब्लैक -led गणतंत्र in the संसार, और the दूसरी गणतंत्र in the americas when it gained independence in 1804 as part of a successful slave revolution lasting nearly a decade.
In 2012, हैती घोषित इसके इरादे to तलाश associate membership status in the African Union.
Haiti is the most populous of the predominantly Francophone स्वतंत्र राष्ट्र in the americas.
It is one of only two independent nations in the Americas ( along with Canada ) to designate French as an official language ; the अन्य french-speaking क्षेत्रों हैं सब विदेशी départements, or collectivités, of France.
Haiti is the most populous full member-state of the caribbean Community ( CARICOM ).
It is the poorest देश in the americas as measured by the Human Development Index.
Political हिंसा रै occurred regularly throughout इसके इतिहास, leading to government instability.
Most recently, in February 2004, a coup d'état originating in the उत्तर of the देश मजबूर the इस्तीफा और निर्वासन of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
A अस्थायी सरकारी took कंट्रोल साथ सुरक्षा provided by the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ).
Michel Martelly, the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष, थी निर्वाचित in the haitian general election, 2011.
The island has had a इतिहास of destructive earthquakes.
A 7.0 magnitude भूकंप struck हैती on 12 जनवरी 2010 और तबाह port-au-prince.
The highest विश्वसनीय मौत गिनती was estimated at 220,000.
Haitian government estimates यहूद उच्चतर.
The Presidential palace, Parliament and many other important structures यहूद नष्ट, साथ साथ अनगिनत घरों और व्यवसायों, leaving सैंकड़ों of हज़ारों of people homeless.
The country has yet to recover from the 2010 earthquake ( and subsequent incidents ) due to both the severity of the damage हैती endured in 2010, as खूब as a सरकारी कि थी अप्रभावी खूब पहले the भूकंप.
United राज्य सहायता संगठन have donated $ 2 billion.
Combined with other international donations, ये निधि हैं intended to योगदान to the पुनर्निर्माण of the country.
The Bloody Beetroots is the pseudonym of Sir Bob Cornelius rifo, the इतालवी इलेक्ट्रो हाउस और dance-punk म्यूज़िक निर्माता, DJ and photographer.
The Bloody Beetroots is well-known लिये the ब्लैक venom मुखौटा he wears during performances.
In fact, the only identifying public feature of Rifo is the साल `` 1977 '' tattooed आरपार उसके छाती, जिससे is दोनो the year that the producer and punk-rock was born.
`` The Bloody beetroots dj नियत '' contains सर bob कॉर्नेलियस Rifo and Tommy Tea.
A Motorola Advisor alphanumeric पेजर प्रयुक्त in ब्राज़ील in the 1990s, operated by Teletrim
A pager is a wireless telecommunications device that receives और प्रदर्शक न्यूमेरिक or टेक्स्ट संदेश, or receives and announces voice messages.
One-way pagers can only receive messages, while response pagers और two-way pagers can भी acknowledge, reply to, and originate messages using an internal transmitter.
Pagers operate as भाग of a paging प्रणाली जिससे शामिल एक or अधिक फिक्स्ड transmitters ( or in the case of response pagers and two-way pagers, one or more base stations ), as well as a number of pagers carried by mobile users.
These systems can range from a रेस्तरां प्रणाली साथ a सिंगल low-power ट्रांसमीटर, to a देशभर प्रणाली साथ हज़ारों of high-power base stations.
One of the पहला व्यावहारिक paging सेवाएं थी launched in 1950 for physicians in the New York City area.
Physicians paid us $ 12 प्रति माह लिये the सेवा और carried a ( 6 oz ) पेजर that would receive phone messages within ( 25 mi ) of a single transmitter tower.
The system was manufactured by the reevesound कम्पनी और संचालित by telanswerphone.
In 1960, John Francis Mitchell combined elements of मोटोरोला 's walkie talkie और ऑटोमोबाइल रेडियो technologies to बनाएँ the पहला transistorized पेजर, और इससे इस point, paging technology continued to advance, and pager adoption continued to expand, until the early 1990s.
However, by the mid-1990s, as सेल्यूलर technologies became सस्ता और अधिक widely उपलब्धियाँ, advanced services began to displace paging as a commercial product.
Today, pagers exist largely as niche उत्पाद, ढूंढना preferential उपयोग in अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as अस्पताल, पब्लिक सुरक्षा, और खुदरा स्थितियाँ where their simplicity, high reliability, and low cost represent significant advantages.
Reevesville is a कस्बा in dorchester काउंटी, South Carolina, United States.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 196 at the 2010 census.
As defined by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget, और प्रयुक्त by the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो लिये सांख्यिकीय उद्देश्य तभी, reevesville is शामिल भीतर the Charleston-North Charleston-Summerville metropolitan area.
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y calderón ; जुलाई 6, 1907 – जुलाई 13, 1954 ) थी a मैक्सिकन चित्रकार, born in Coyoacán, who is best known for her self-portraits.
Kahlo 's life began and ended in मैक्सिको नगर, in उसके घर ज्ञात as the Blue House.
She दिया उसके जनम तिथि as जुलाई 7, 1910, लकिन उसके जनम certificate shows July 6, 1907.
Kahlo had allegedly wanted the year of her birth to coincide with the year of the beginning of the Mexican revolution so कि उसके जीवन होता शुरू साथ the जनम of आधुनिक मैक्सिको.
Her work has been celebrated in Mexico as emblematic of national and indigenous परंपरा, और by नारीवादी लिये इसके uncompromising चित्रण of the female experience and form.
Mexican culture and Amerindian cultural tradition are important in her work, which has महरूम sometimes characterized as naïve आर्ट or folk art.
Her work has also been described as `` surrealist '', and in 1938 André Breton, principal initiator of the surrealist movement, वर्णित kahlo 's आर्ट as a `` रिबन around a bomb ''.
Kahlo had a volatile marriage साथ the प्रसिद्ध मैक्सिकन कलाकार डिएगो Rivera.
वो suffered lifelong health problems.
Many of her health problems were the result of a ट्रैफ़िक दुर्घटना वो बच as a किशोरावस्था.
Recovering from उसके चोटों पृथक उसके इससे अन्य लोगों और इस अलगाव बहकावे her works, many of which are self-portraits of one sort or another.
Kahlo suggested, `` I paint खुद क्युकी i am so प्रायः अलोन और क्युकी i am the subject I know best. ''
She also stated, `` I थी born a कुतिया.
i थी born a चित्रकार. ''
300px
Theresienwiese on the day पहले oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival celebrating beer held annually in म्यूनिख, बायर्न, जर्मनी, कार्यशील इससे लेट सितंबर to the पहला वीकेंड in October.
It is one of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध कार्यक्रम in जर्मनी और is the संसार 's largest मेला, साथ more than 6 million people from around the world attending the event every year.
To the locals, it is not called Oktoberfest, but `` die Wiesn '', बाद the colloquial नाम of the fairgrounds themselves.
The oktoberfest is an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of bar संस्कृति, having been held since 1810.
Other cities across the संसार भी थाम oktoberfest जश्न, modeled after the original Munich event.
The म्यूनिख oktoberfest originally took प्लेस दौरान the सोलह days up to, and including, the first Sunday in October.
In 1994, the schedule was modified in response to German reunification so that if the first संडे in अक्तूबर जलप्रपात on the 1st or 2nd, तब the पर्व होता go on जबतक अक्तूबर 3 ( German Unity Day ).
Thus, the पर्व is अभी 17 दिनों जब the पहला संडे is अक्तूबर 2 and 18 days when it is October 1.
in 2010, the पर्व lasted जबतक the पहला Monday in October, to mark the anniversary of the event.
The पर्व is आयोजित in an क्षेत्रफल नामित the theresienwiese ( field, or meadow, of Therese ), often called Wiesn for short, located near Munich 's center.
Large quantities of oktoberfest बियर हैं खपत, साथ लगभग 7 लाख liters served during the 16 day festival in 2007.
Visitors may also enjoy a wide variety of traditional food such as Hendl ( chicken ), Schweinebraten ( roast pork ), Schweinshaxe ( grilled ham hock ), Steckerlfisch ( grilled fish on a stick ), Würstl ( sausages ) along साथ brezeln ( pretzel ), knödel ( आलू or ब्रैड पकौड़ी ), käsespätzle ( चीज नूडल्स ), reiberdatschi ( आलू pancakes ), sauerkraut or rotkohl/blaukraut ( red cabbage ) along with such Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter spread ) and Weisswurst ( a white sausage ).
A platter साथ चीज और garnishes
पहियों of Gouda
Cheese is a generic term for a विविध समूह of milk-based खाना उत्पाद.
Cheese is produced in wide-ranging जायका, बनावट, और फ़ॉर्म.
चीज consists of प्रोटीन और मोटे from milk, usually the milk of cows, buffalo, goats, or sheep.
It is produced by जामन of the मिल्क प्रोटीन casein.
Typically, the milk is acidified और जोड of the एंजाइम rennet कल्याणकारी जामन.
The solids are separated and दबाया into फाइनल रूप.
Some cheeses have molds on the rind or throughout.
Most cheeses melt at कुकिंग temperature.
Hundreds of प्रकार of चीज इससे विभिन्न countries are produced.
Their styles, textures and flavors निर्भर on the उत्पत्ति of the मिल्क ( सहित the एनिमल 's आहार ), whether वे have महरूम pasteurized, the butterfat content, the bacteria and mold, the processing, and aging.
Herbs, मसाले, or लकडी धुँआ may be प्रयुक्त as flavoring agents.
The yellow to red रंग of अनेक cheeses, ऐसे as रेड लीसेस्टर, is सामान्यतः formed from adding annatto.
For a few cheeses, the milk is curdled by adding acids ऐसे as सिरका or नीबू रस.
Most cheeses are acidified to a lesser degree by जीवाणु, जिससे फेरे मिल्क sugars into लैक्टिक एसिड, तब the addition of rennet completes the curdling.
Vegetarian alternatives to rennet are उपलब्धियाँ ; सबसे हैं उत्पादित by fermentation of the कवक mucor miehei, लकिन अन्य have महरूम extracted from various species of the Cynara thistle family.
Cheese is valued लिये इसके पोर्टेबिलिटी, long जीवन, और ऊँची सामग्री of मोटे, protein, calcium, and phosphorus.
Cheese is more compact and has a longer shelf life than milk, although how long a cheese will रखना may निर्भर on the प्रकार of चीज ; लेबल्स on पैकेट्स of चीज प्रायः अर्जी कि a cheese should be consumed within three to five days of opening.
Generally speaking, hard cheeses last longer than नरम cheeses, ऐसे as brie or बकरी 's मिल्क cheese.
Cheesemakers near a dairy region may benefit from fresher, lower-priced मिल्क, और निम्नतर शिपिंग लागत.
The long storage life of some cheese, especially if it is encased in a सुरक्षात्मक rind, allows selling जब बाज़ार हैं अनुकूल.
Additional ingredients may be added to कुछ cheeses, ऐसे as black peppers, garlic, chives or cranberries.
A specialist seller of चीज is sometimes ज्ञात as a cheesemonger.
To become an expert in this field, जैसे वाइन or कुकिंग, requires कुछ औपचारिक शिक्षा और सालो of चख और hands-on experience.
This position is typically जिम्मेदार लिये सब पहलुओं of the चीज inventory ; selecting the cheese menu, purchasing, receiving, storage, and ripening.
Legal citation signals are a set of brief abbreviated वाक्यांश or शब्द प्रयुक्त to clarify the प्राधिकार or significance of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition.
Signals help a रीडर जल्दी discern अर्थ or उपयोगिता of a particular reference when the reference itself does not provide adequate information.
Most citation signals हैं लगाई in सामने of the citation to which they apply.
For example, in the अनुच्छेद जब लिखने a legal argument, it is important to refer to primary sources.
To assist readers in locating ये स्त्रोत, it is वांछनीय to उपयोग a standardized citation format.
See generally Harvard Law Review Association, the bluebook : a वर्दी प्रणाली of citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ).
Note, however, that some courts may आवश्यकता कोई विधिक papers कि हैं सुपुर्द to उन्हें to conform to a अलग citation format.
the signal is the phrase `` see generally, '' which indicates that the citation `` the bluebook : a वर्दी प्रणाली of citation ( 18th ed. 2005 ) '' provides सामान्य पृष्ठभूमि सूचना on the topic.
Neil Alden आर्मस्ट्रांग ( अगस्त 5, 1930 – अगस्त 25, 2012 ) थी an अमरीकी astronaut and the first person to walk on the Moon.
He was also an aerospace engineer, naval एविएटर, परीक्षण पायलट, और विश्वविद्यालयों प्राध्यापक.
Before becoming an astronaut, Armstrong was an officer in the u.S. नेवी और परोसा in the कोरियाई War.
After the war, he अर्जित उसके स्नातक 's उपाधि at purdue विश्वविद्यालयों और परोसा as a परीक्षण पायलट at the नेशनल सलाहकार Committee for Aeronautics High-Speed Flight Station, now known as the Dryden Flight Research Center, where he logged over 900 flights.
He later completed graduate अध्ययन at the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी California.
A participant in the U.S. Air Force 's Man in Space soonest और x-20 dyna-soar इंसान spaceflight कार्यक्रम, आर्मस्ट्रांग joined the NASA Astronaut Corps in 1962.
He made his first space flight, as कमांड पायलट of मिथुन 8, in 1966, बनने NASA 's first civilian astronaut to fly in space.
On this mission, he performed the first डॉकिंग of दो spacecraft, साथ पायलट दाउद Scott.
Armstrong 's दूसरी और पिछला spaceflight थी as मिशन कमांडर of the Apollo 11 moon landing, in July 1969.
on इस मिशन, आर्मस्ट्रांग और बज़ एल्ड्रिन descended to the चंद्र सतह और खर्च दो और a half hours exploring, while Michael Collins remained in lunar orbit in the Command Module.
Along with Collins and Aldrin, Armstrong was awarded the Presidential Medal of स्वतंत्रता by अध्यक्ष रिचर्ड निक्सन ; in 1978, अध्यक्ष jimmy कार्टर प्रस्तुत आर्मस्ट्रांग the congressional स्पेस पदक of सम्मान in 1978 ; he and his former crewmates received the Congressional Gold Medal in 2009.
Armstrong died in Cincinnati, ओहियो, on अगस्त 25, 2012, at the आयु of 82, बाद जटिलताओं from coronary artery bypass surgery.
Secretariat ( March 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989 ) थी an अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse कि in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple Crown champion in 25 years.
He set race records in all three कार्यक्रम in the श्रेणी — the केंटकी डर्बी ( 1:59.4 ), the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ), and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today.
He is माना to be एक of the महानतम Thoroughbreds of all time.
In 1999, ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th सदी, the उच्चतम रैंकिंग racehorse on the सूची url_http.
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in the blood-horse 's सूची of the शीर्ष 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century.
Secretariat was sired by बिंदास शासक आउट of somethingroyal, by princequillo.
He was foaled at The Meadow in कैरोलीन काउंटी, वर्जिनिया.
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' युद्ध, सचिवालय थी a विशाल शाहबलूत टट्टू और थी दिए the वही nickname, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, nasrullah, is भी the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew.
Owned by Penny Chenery, he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian jockey Ron turcotte, साथ साथ प्रशिक्षु jockey पॉल फेलिसियानो ( पहला दो races ), and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ).
He raced in chenery 's मर्ग stable 's ब्लू and white checkered colors and his groom was Eddie Sweat.
सचिवालय stood लगभग लम्बा, और weighed, with a 75-inch girth, in his racing prime.
Madrid (, ) is the capital और largest नगर of Spain.
The population of the city is roughly 3.3 million and the entire population of the मैड्रिड महानगर क्षेत्रफल is गणना to be around 6.5 million.
It is the third-largest city in the European Union, after London and Berlin, and इसके महानगर क्षेत्रफल is the third-largest in the European Union after London and Paris.
The नगर spans a total of.
The city is located on the manzanares नदी in the केन्द्र of दोनो the देश और the जातियाँ of मैड्रिड ( जिससे comprises the नगर of मैड्रिड, इसके conurbation और extended suburbs and villages ) ; this community is bordered by the autonomous communities of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha.
As the capital city of स्पेन, सीट of सरकारी, और निवास of the स्पेनी monarch, मैड्रिड is also the political, economic and cultural centre of Spain.
the वर्तमान महापौर is ana botella from the People 's Party ( PP ).
The Madrid urban agglomeration has the third-largest जीडीपी in the यूरोपीय संघ और इसके प्रभाव in राजनीती, शिक्षा, entertainment, पर्यावरण, मीडिया, फ़ैशन, विज्ञान, culture, and the arts all contribute to its status as one of the world 's major global cities.
Due to इसके आर्थिक आउटपुट, ऊँची मानक of जीना, और मार्केट आकार, मैड्रिड is माना the प्रमुख वित्तीय केन्द्र of दक्षिणी यूरोपीय and the Iberian Peninsula ; it hosts the head offices of the vast majority of the major Spanish companies, such as Telefónica, Iberia or Repsol.
Madrid is the most touristic city of Spain, the fourth-most touristic of the महाद्वीप, और the सातवाँ सबसे visited नगर in the संसार according to Forbes.
Is the 10th most livable नगर in the संसार according to monocle magazine, in its 2010 index.
Madrid also बाँधने among the 12 greenest यूरोपीय शहरों in 2010. < संदर्भ name= '' एचटीटीपी : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > Madrid is currently a Candidate City for the 2020 Summer Olympics.
Madrid houses the headquarters of the World Tourism Organization ( wto ), belonging to the संयुक्त राष्ट्र संगठन ( un ), the segib, the संगठन of Ibero-American States ( OEI ), and the Public Interest Oversight Board ( PIOB ).
It also hosts major अंतरराष्ट्रीय संस्थानों regulators of स्पेनी : the खड़ा कमेटी of the संघ of Spanish Language Academies, headquarters of the Royal Spanish Academy ( RAE ), the Cervantes Institute and the Foundation of Urgent Spanish ( Fundéu ).
Madrid organizes मेलों as fitur, आरको, simo tci and the Cibeles Madrid Fashion Week.
While Madrid possesses a modern infrastructure, it has preserved the look and feel of many of its ऐतिहासिक neighbourhoods और गलियों.
Its landmarks include the Royal Palace of Madrid ; the Teatro Real ( Royal theatre ) with its restored 1850 Opera House ; the Buen Retiro Park, founded in 1631 ; the 19th-century नेशनल पुस्तकालयों भवन ( संस्थापित in 1712 ) containing कुछ of स्पेन 's ऐतिहासिक अभिलेख ; a विशाल क्रमांक of नेशनल संग्रहालय, और the सुनहरी त्रिभुज of Art, located along the Paseo del Prado and comprising three art museums : Prado Museum, the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, a museum of modern art, and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, which completes the shortcomings of the other two museums.
Cibeles Palace and Fountain have become the स्मारक प्रतीक of the city.
The path of the Via Appia and of the via appia traiana.
Remains of the Appian रास्ता in रोम, निकट quarto Miglio
Near रोम.
the appian रास्ता ( लैटिन और इतालवी : via appia ) थी एक of the earliest और रणनीतिक most important Roman roads of the ancient republic.
It connected रोम to brindisi, apulia, in southeast Italy.
Its importance is indicated by इसके आम नाम, अंकित by Statius :
appia teritur रेजिना longarum viarum
`` the Appian रास्ता is the महारानी of the long roads ''
The road is named after Appius Claudius Caecus, the Roman censor who began and completed the first section as a सैन्य सड़क to the दक्षिण in 312 bc दौरान the samnite युद्धों.
The Draupner wave, a single giant wave measured on New Year 's Day 1995, आखिरकार पुष्टि the अस्तित्व of freak लहरें, जिससे था previously been considered near-mythical
Rogue waves ( also known as freak waves, monster waves, कातिल लहरें, चरम लहरें, और असामान्य लहरें ) हैं अपेक्षाकृत large and spontaneous ocean surface waves that occur far out at sea, and are a threat even to large ships and ocean liners.
In oceanography, they are more precisely पारिभाषित as लहरें जिनकी ऊँचाई is अधिक than twice the significant वेव ऊँचाई ( swh ), जिससे is itself defined as the mean of the largest third of waves in a wave record.
Therefore rogue waves हैं नहीं necessarily the biggest लहरें मिला at समुद्र ; वे हैं, rather, surprisingly large waves for a given sea state.
Rogue waves seem not to have a single distinct cause, लकिन occur जहाँ शारीरिक कारकों ऐसे as ऊँची हवाएँ और दमदार currents cause waves to merge to create a single exceptionally large wave.
Electress sophia of हनोवर ( 1630–1714 )
The line of succession to the British throne is the ordered sequence of सब those लोगों योग्य to सफल to the सिंहासन of the संयुक्त किंगडम और the other 15 Commonwealth realms.
The Act of Settlement 1701 bestowed succession on the Electress sophia of हनोवर और उसके वंशजों जबकि excluding Roman Catholics.
The British सरकारी करता नहीं प्रकाशित an आधिकारिक सूची of सब those in लकीर to सफल, लकिन the कार्य of genealogical लेखक और amateur researchers suggests that there are several thousand people potentially in line.
At a summit in Perth, Western Australia in 2011, the heads of government of all 16 Commonwealth realms agreed to take steps to adopt absolute primogeniture, end the exclusion of लोगों शादीशुदा to रोमन catholics, और मेक अन्य परिवर्तन in the उत्तराधिकार नियम.
The line of succession is also प्रयुक्त to चुनें the counsellors of राज्य ( और a रीजेंट if the need arises ) under the provisions of the Regency Act 1937.
For earlier संस्करण of the लकीर of उत्तराधिकार, see History of the British line of succession.
Edward Montgomery Clift ( October 17, 1920July 23, 1966 ) was an American film and स्टेज कर्ता the नई यॉर्क times’ obituary विख्यात उसके portrayal of `` मूडी, संवेदनशील young men ''.
He often played outsiders and `` victim-heroes '' ; examples include the सोशल climber in जार्ज स्टीवंस 's a प्लेस in the सूर्य, the anguished कैथोलिक पुजारी in हिचकॉक 's i कबूल, the doomed नियमित सिपाही रॉबर्ट E. ली prewitt in फ्रेड zinnemann 's From Here to Eternity, and the Jewish GI bullied by antisemites in Edward Dmytryk 's The Young Lions.
Later, after a disfiguring car क्रैश in 1956, और दारू और नुस्खा drug abuse, he became erratic.
Nevertheless महत्वपूर्ण भूमिकाएँ यहूद स्टिल उसके, सहित `` the लापरवाह, alcoholic, mother-fixated रोडियो यजमान '' in जॉन हस्टन 's The Misfits, the title role in Huston 's, and the concentration camp victim in Stanley Kramer 's Judgment at Nuremberg. ''
Clift received four Academy Award nominations दौरान उसके करियर, तीन लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता and one for Best Supporting Actor.
The War on Terror ( also ज्ञात as the वैश्विक युद्ध on आतंक ) is a पद commonly लागू to an अंतरराष्ट्रीय सैन्य अभियान जिससे started as a result of the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States.
This resulted in an अंतरराष्ट्रीय सैन्य अभियान to eliminate al-qaeda and other militant organizations.
The United किंगडम और अनेक other NATO and non-NATO nations participate in the conflict.
The phrase 'War on आतंक ' थी पहला प्रयुक्त by us अध्यक्ष George W. Bush on 20 September 2001.
The Bush administration and the Western मीडिया have चूंकि प्रयुक्त the पद to signify a वैश्विक सैन्य, राजनैतिक, lawful, और conceptual struggle—targeting both organizations designated as terrorist and regimes accused of supporting them.
It was typically used with a particular फ़ोकस on उग्रवादी islamists, al-qaeda, and other jihadi groups.
Although the term is not officially used by the administration of US President Barack Obama ( which instead uses the term Overseas Contingency Operation ), it is still commonly used by politicians, in the मीडिया और by कुछ पहलुओं of सरकारी officially, ऐसे as the संयुक्त राज्य ' वैश्विक युद्ध on आतंक सेवा पदक.
German battleship schleswig-holstein, westerplatte, September 1, 1939
Destroyer USS Shaw exploding बाद उसके आगे पत्रिका थी detonated during the Attack on Pearl Harbor
The main causes of World War II were nationalistic मुद्दे, अनसुलझे मुद्दे, और resentments resulting इससे संसार युद्ध i और the interwar period in Europe, in addition to the effects of the Great Depression in the 1930s.
The culmination of events that led to the outbreak of war are generally understood to be the 1939 invasion of कैंडल by जर्मनी और सोवियत रूस और the 1937 आक्रमण of the गणतंत्र of चीन by the Empire of Japan.
These military aggressions were the परिणाम of निर्णय बना by the सत्तावादी सत्ताधारी नाजी elite in Germany and by the leadership of the Kwantung Army in Japan.
World War II started after these आक्रामक क्रियाएँ यहूद मिले साथ an आधिकारिक घोषणा of युद्ध and/or armed resistance.
The following is a सूची of देवताओं और अन्य दैवी और semi-divine आंकड़े from Greek mythology.
The list does not include creatures ; for these, see List of यूनानी पौराणिक जीव.
The Mitsubishi Galant is an automobile manufactured by मित्सुबिशी मोटर्स between 1969 और 2012.
The नाम थी निकला इससे the French word galant, meaning `` chivalrous ''.
There have महरूम नौ पृथक पीढियां, और संचयी sales now exceed five million.
It began as a compact sedan, लकिन over the कोर्स of इसके जीवन रै विकसित into a larger mid-size car.
Initial production was only based in Japan, but since 1994 the American market has been served by वाहनों समवेत at the पूर्व diamond-star Motors ( DSM ) facility in Normal, Illinois.
Blood pressure ( BP ), sometimes referred to as arterial रक्त दबाव, is the दबाव exerted by circulating रक्त upon the walls of blood vessels, and is one of the principal vital signs.
When used without further specification, `` blood pressure '' प्रायः refers to the arterial दबाव of the प्रणालीगत परिसंचरण.
During each heartbeat, blood pressure varies between a अधिकतम ( systolic ) और a न्यूनतम ( diastolic ) pressure.
The blood pressure in the परिसंचरण is प्रधानतया due to the pumping action of the heart.
मतभेद in औसत रक्त दबाव हैं जिम्मेदार लिये blood flow from one location to another in the circulation.
The rate of mean blood flow depends on the resistance to प्रवाह प्रस्तुत by the रक्त बरतन.
Mean blood pressure decreases as the circulating blood moves away from the heart through arteries और capillaries due to viscous नुकसान of energy.
Mean blood pressure drops over the whole circulation, हालांकि सबसे of the पतन occurs साथ the small arteries and arterioles.
Gravity affects blood pressure via hydrostatic forces ( e.g., दौरान खड़ा ) और valves in रगों, श्वास, और pumping इससे संकुचन of skeletal muscles also influence blood pressure in veins.
Blood pressure without further specification प्रायः refers to the प्रणालीगत arterial दबाव measured at a व्यक्ति 's अपर भुजा और is a माप of the दबाव in the brachial artery, the major artery in the upper arm.
A person’s blood pressure is usually expressed in terms of the systolic pressure over diastolic दबाव और is measured in millimetres of पारा ( mmhg ), लिये उदाहरण 120/80.
A veto – Latin for `` I forbid '' – is the power ( used by an officer of the state, for example ) to unilaterally रोकें an आधिकारिक कार्रवाई, विशेषकर the enactment of legislation.
A veto can be absolute, as for instance in the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद, जिनकी स्थाई सदस्यों ( China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, United States of America ) can block any resolution.
Or it can be सीमित, as in the विधान प्रक्रम of the संयुक्त राज्य, जहाँ a two-thirds vote in दोनो the House and Senate may override a Presidential veto of legislation.
A veto only gives power to stop परिवर्तन, नहीं to अपनाना उन्हें ( मगर लिये the विरल `` amendatory veto '' ).
Thus a veto allows its होल्डर to protect the औकात quo.
The concept of a वीटो देह originated साथ the रोमन consuls and tribunes.
Either of the two consuls holding दफ्तर in a दिए साल could ब्लाक a सैन्य or सिविल निर्णय by the अन्य ; कोई ट्रिब्यून था the शक्ति to unilaterally block legislation passed by the Roman Senate.
गंधक डाइऑक्साइड ( भी गंधक डाइऑक्साइड ) is the chemical compound with the formula.
It is a toxic gas साथ a pungent, तकलीफदेह महकते, कि is released by volcanoes and in various industrial processes.
Since coal and petroleum often contain sulfur यौगिकों, उनके दहन generates गंधक डाइऑक्साइड जबतक the गंधक यौगिकों are removed before burning the fuel.
Further oxidation of SO2, usually in the presence of a उत्प्रेरक ऐसे as no2, फ़ॉर्म h2so4, और thus acid rain.
Sulfur dioxide emissions are also a precursor to अभिकण in the माहौल.
Both of these impacts हैं कारण लिये चिंता over the पर्यावरणीय impact of these fuels.
Myasthenia gravis ( from Greek μύς `` muscle '', `` weakness '', और `` गंभीर '' ; abbreviated mg ) is an असंक्राम्य neuromuscular बीमारी leading to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatigability.
It is an autoimmune disorder, in which weakness is caused by circulating antibodies that block acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular जंक्शन, inhibiting the excitatory प्रभाव of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions.
Myasthenia is treated medically साथ acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants, and, in selected cases, thymectomy.
the बीमारी incidence is 3–30 मामले प्रति लाख प्रति year and rising as a result of increased awareness.
MG must be distinguished from congenital myasthenic syndromes कि can उपस्थित समान symptoms but offer no response to immunosuppressive treatments.
Reflective twisted nematic liquid क्रिस्टल प्रदर्शक.
polarizing फिल्टर फिल्मी साथ a लंबवत अक्ष to polarize light as it enters.
Glass substrate साथ ito electrodes.
The shapes of these electrodes होगा determine the आकार कि होगा appear when the LCD is turned ON.
Vertical ridges etched on the सतह हैं चिकना.
Twisted nematic द्रव क्रिस्टल.
Glass substrate with common electrode film ( ITO ) साथ आड़ा ridges to लकीर up साथ the आड़ा filter.
Polarizing filter film with a आड़ा अक्ष to block/pass light.
Reflective surface to send लाइट वापस to दर्शक.
( In a backlit एलसीडी, इस परत is replaced with a light source. )
A liquid-crystal display ( LCD ) is a flat panel प्रदर्शक, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक विज़ुअल प्रदर्शक, or वीडियो प्रदर्शक कि उपयोग the लाइट modulating properties of liquid crystals.
Liquid crystals do not emit लाइट सीधे.
LCDs are available to display arbitrary images ( as in a general-purpose कंप्यूटर प्रदर्शक ) or फिक्स्ड बिंब जिससे can be प्रदर्शित or छुपा, such as preset words, digits, and 7-segment displays as in a digital clock.
They use the same basic technology, except that arbitrary images are made up of a large number of छोटी पिक्सेल, जबकि अन्य प्रदर्शक have larger elements.
lcds हैं प्रयुक्त in a चौड़ी दायरा of अनुप्रयोग सहित कंप्यूटर मॉनीटर, टेलीविज़न, instrument panels, aircraft cockpit displays, and signage.
They are common in consumer devices such as video players, gaming devices, घड़ियाँ, घड़ियाँ, calculators, और telephones, और have replaced कैथोड रे ट्यूब ( crt ) प्रदर्शक in most applications.
They are available in a wider दायरा of स्क्रीन आकार than crt और प्लाज्मा प्रदर्शक, and since they do not use phosphors, they do not suffer image burn-in.
LCDs are, however, susceptible to image persistence.
The LCD स्क्रीन is अधिक उर्जा कुशल and can be disposed of more safely than a CRT.
Its low electrical power खपत enables it to be प्रयुक्त in बैटरी -powered electronic equipment.
It is an electronically modulated optical device made up of any number of segments filled with liquid crystals और arrayed in सामने of a लाइट सोर्स ( backlight ) or reflector to उपज बिंब in color or monochrome.
Liquid crystals were पहला खोजा in 1888.
By 2008, worldwide sales of televisions with LCD screens exceeded annual sales of CRT units ; the crt became obsolete लिये सबसे उद्देश्य.
The Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa is a luxury hotel, casino, और स्पा in अटलांटिक नगर, नई जर्सी, United States.
It is owned by Marina District Development, a joint venture between Boyd Gaming and a divesture विश्वास स्थापित by mgm रिसॉर्ट अंतरराष्ट्रीय.
The $ 1.1 billion कसीनो होटल सुविधाएँ 2,002 कक्ष और is the largest hotel in New Jersey.
The Borgata opened in July 2003 as a Las Vegas-style megaresort और is the top-grossing कसीनो in अटलांटिक नगर.
A bottle of high potency B-complex विटामिन संपूरक pills.
A vitamin ( or ) is an organic compound required by an organism as a vital nutrient in सीमित amounts.
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is called a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an सजीव, और जरूर be प्राप्त इससे the diet.
Thus, the term is conditional दोनो on the हालातों और on the particular organism.
For example, ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) is a vitamin for humans, but not for most अन्य पशु, और biotin और विटामिन d हैं जरूरी in the human diet only in certain circumstances.
By convention, the term vitamin includes neither other essential nutrients, ऐसे as dietary खनिज, अनिवार्य वसीय acids, or अनिवार्य अमीनो acids ( जिससे हैं needed in larger amounts than विटामिन ) nor the large number of other nutrients that promote health but are otherwise required less often.
तेरह विटामिन हैं universally recognized at present.
Vitamins are वर्गीकृत by उनके biological और रासायनिक कार्यकलाप, not their structure.
Thus, each `` vitamin '' refers to a number of vitamer यौगिकों कि सब दिखाएँ the biological कार्यकलाप संबद्ध साथ a particular vitamin.
Such a set of chemicals is grouped under an alphabetized vitamin `` generic descriptor '' title, such as `` विटामिन a ``, जिससे शामिल the यौगिकों retinal, रेटिनॉल, और चार ज्ञात carotenoids.
Vitamers by definition are convertible to the क्रियाशील रूप of the विटामिन in the देह, और हैं sometimes inter-convertible to one another, as well.
विटामिन have विविध biochemical functions.
Some have hormone-like कृत्यों as regulators of खनिज चयापचय ( ऐसे as विटामिन D ), or regulators of cell and tissue growth and differentiation ( such as some forms of vitamin A ).
Others फलन as antioxidants ( e.g., vitamin E and sometimes vitamin C ).
The largest number of विटामिन ( ऐसे as b जटिल विटामिन ) फलन as precursors लिये एंजाइम cofactors, that help enzymes in their work as catalysts in metabolism.
In this role, vitamins may be tightly बंधी to एंजाइमों as भाग of prosthetic groups : For example, biotin is part of enzymes involved in making fatty acids.
Vitamins may also be less tightly bound to enzyme catalysts as coenzymes, detachable molecules कि फलन to carry रासायनिक समूह or electrons between अणुओं.
For example, folic acid may carry मिथाइल, formyl, और methylene groups in the cell.
Although these roles in assisting enzyme-substrate प्रतिक्रियाएँ हैं विटामिन ' best-known फलन, the other vitamin functions are equally important.
Until the mid-1930s, when the first commercial yeast-extract vitamin B complex and semi-synthetic vitamin C supplement tablets were sold, vitamins were प्राप्त solely through खाना सेवन, और परिवर्तन in आहार ( जिससे, लिये उदाहरण, could occur दौरान a particular growing ऋतु ) प्रायः greatly altered the प्रकार और amounts of विटामिन ingested.
However, vitamins have been produced as कमोडिटी रसायन और बना widely उपलब्धियाँ as inexpensive semisynthetic और synthetic-source multivitamin dietary और खाना पूरक और additives, since the middle of the 20th century.
संसार मुस्लिम जनसांख्यिकी by प्रतिशत ( pew Research Center, 2009 )
World Muslim जनसांख्यिकी in लाखो
islam is the संसार 's दूसरी largest religion after Christianity.
According to a 2010 पढ़ाई, islam रै 1.62 अरब adherents, making up over 23 % of the world population.
Islam is the predominant धर्म in the मध्य ईस्ट, in सहेल, in the सींग of अफ़्रीकी और उत्तरी Africa, and in some parts of Asia.
Large communities of मुसलमान हैं भी मिला in चीन, the balkans, and Russia.
Other parts of the world host large Muslim immigrant communities ; in Western Europe, लिये उदाहरण, islam is the दूसरी largest धर्म बाद christianity, जहाँ it represents 6 % of the total population.
According to the Pew Research बीच in 2010 वहीँ यहूद 49 muslim-majority देशों.
Around 62 % of the world 's मुसलमान सजीव in दक्षिण और southeast एशिया, साथ over 1 billion adherents.
The largest Muslim देश is इंडोनेशिया, घर to 12.7 % of the संसार 's मुसलमान, followed by Pakistan ( 11.0 % ), India ( 10.9 % ), and Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ).
About 20 % of मुसलमान सजीव in Arab countries.
In the Middle East, the non-Arab देशों of तुर्कों और इरान हैं the largest muslim-majority देशों ; in Africa, Egypt and Nigeria have the most populous Muslim communities.
A study conducted by the Pew Research Center in 2010 and released जनवरी 2011 मिला कि वहीँ हैं 1.62 अरब मुसलमान around the world.
The study found more Muslims in the United किंगडम than in लेबनान और अधिक in चीन than in सीरियाई.
Rhode Island ( or ), officially the राज्य of rhode द्वीप और विधाता बागानों, is a state in the New England region of the United States.
Rhode Island is the smallest in area, the eighth least populous, but the second सबसे densely आबादी of the 50 us राज्य पीछे नई जर्सी.
Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the west and Massachusetts to the उत्तर और ईस्ट, और it साझा a जल boundary साथ नई यॉर्क 's long द्वीप to the southwest.
Rhode द्वीप थी the पहला of the 13 असली colonies to घोषित स्वतंत्रता from British rule, declaring itself independent on May 4, 1776, two months before any other colony.
the राज्य थी भी the पिछला of the तेरह original colonies to ratify the United States Constitution.
Rhode Island 's official nickname is `` The Ocean State '', a reference to the State 's geography, चूंकि rhode द्वीप रै अनेक विशाल bays और inlets कि राशि to about 14 % of its total area.
Its land area is, लकिन इसके कुल क्षेत्रफल is significantly larger.
Dubai ( ; ', ) is a city in the संयुक्त अरब अमीरात, स्तिथ भीतर the अमीर of the same name.
The अमीर of दुबई is स्तिथ on the southeast coast of the पारसी गल्फ on the arabian प्रायद्वीप and is one of the seven emirates that make up the country.
It has the largest जनसांख्यिकी in the uae ( 2,106,177 ) और the second-largest land territory by area ( 4,114 km2 ) after Abu Dhabi.
Dubai and abu धाबी, the नेशनल पूंजी, हैं the तभी दो अमीरात to have वीटो शक्ति over नाजुक matters of नेशनल importance in the country 's legislature.
The city of Dubai is located on the अमीर 's उत्तरी तटरेखा और heads up the dubai-sharjah-ajman metropolitan area.
Dubai is nowadays often misperceived as a देश or city-state और, in कुछ मामले, the uae as a whole has been described as 'Dubai '.
The earliest जिक्र of दुबई is in 1095 ad, और the earliest recorded settlement in the region dates from 1799.
The Sheikhdom of Dubai was formally established in 1833 by शेख़ maktoum बिन butti al-maktoum जब he persuaded around 800 सदस्यों of उसके जनजाति of the bani yas, जीना in कया थी तब the दूसरी Saudi State and now part of Saudi Arabia, to follow him to the Dubai Creek by the Abu Falasa clan of the Bani Yas.
It remained under the tribe 's control when the संयुक्त किंगडम assumed सुरक्षा of the sheikhdom in 1892 और joined the nascent संयुक्त अरब अमीरात upon स्वतंत्रता in 1971 as the country 's second emirate.
Its strategic geographic स्थान बना the कस्बा an महत्वपूर्ण व्यापार हब और by the शुरूआत of the 20th century, Dubai was already an important regional port.
Today, Dubai has emerged as a cosmopolitan metropolis that has grown steadily to become a वैश्विक नगर और a कारोबार और सांस्कृतिक हब of the मध्य ईस्ट और the Persian Gulf region.
Although Dubai 's अर्थव्यवस्था थी historically निर्मित on the आयल उद्योग, the अमीर 's western-style मॉडल of कारोबार ड्राइव इसके अर्थव्यवस्था साथ the main revenues now coming from tourism, real estate, and financial services.
Dubai has recently आकर्षित संसार ध्यान through अनेक अभिनव विशाल construction projects and sports events.
The city has become symbolic for its skyscrapers and high-rise buildings, such as the संसार 's tallest burj खलीफा, in जोड to महत्वाकांक्षी विकास प्रोजेक्ट सहित man-made आइलैंड्स, होटल, और कुछ of the largest shopping malls in the region and the world.
This increased attention has also highlighted labor and human अधिकारों मुद्दे concerning the नगर 's largely दक्षिण एशियाई paid workforce.
Dubai 's property मार्केट अनुभवी a प्रमुख deterioration in 2008–2009 as a परिणाम of the विश्वव्यापी आर्थिक downturn following the financial crisis of 2007-2008.
However, Dubai has made a steady and क्रमिक रिकवरी साथ सहायता coming इससे neighboring emirates.
The handful of new projects that are in the पाइपलाइन have महरूम समर्थ to सहायता दुबई real estate make a comeback.
As of 2012, Dubai is the 22nd most expensive city in the संसार, और the सबसे महंगी नगर in the मध्य ईस्ट, surpassing इसराईल 's Tel Aviv ( 31st ).
Dubai has also been rated as एक of the बेहतरीन स्थान to सजीव in the मध्य ईस्ट, सहित by us अमरीकी global consulting firm Mercer who rated the city as the best place to live in the Middle East in 2011.
The following is a list of कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों in the u.S. state of Illinois.
Surface of the अटलांटिक समंदर बैठक the धरती 's ग्रहीय boundary layer and troposphere.
Waves on an ocean coast.
This animation uses Earth science आंकड़ा इससे a किस्में of सेंसर on नासा धरती observing satellites to माप शारीरिक oceanography पैरामीटर्स such as ocean currents, ocean winds, sea surface height and sea surface temperature.
An ocean ( ; the World समंदर of शास्त्रीय प्राचीनता ) is a देह of saline जल that composes a large part of a planet 's hydrosphere.
In the context of Earth, it refers to एक or सब of the प्रमुख विभाजन of the ग्रह 's संसार समंदर – वे हैं, in descending अनुक्रम of क्षेत्रफल, the Pacific, Atlantic, Indian, Southern ( Antarctic ), and Arctic Oceans.
The word `` sea `` is often used interchangeably with `` ocean '', but सख्ती बोलना a समुद्र is a देह of saline जल ( संभवतः a प्रभाग of the संसार समंदर ) partly or fully enclosed by land.
धरती is the तभी ग्रह ज्ञात to have an ocean ( or any large amounts of open liquid water ).
Approximately 72 % of the planet 's surface ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline जल कि is customarily विभाजित into अनेक प्रिंसिपल महासागर और छोटी समंदर, साथ the ocean covering approximately 71 % of the Earth 's surface.
In terms of the hydrosphere of the धरती, the समंदर contains 97 % of the Earth 's water.
Oceanographers have stated that out of 97 %, only 5 % of the समंदर as a पूरे on धरती रै महरूम छान.
Because it is the principal component of Earth 's hydrosphere, the world ocean is integral to all known life, forms part of the carbon cycle, और प्रभाव जलवायु और मौसम पैटर्न.
The total volume is लगभग 1.3 अरब घन किलोमीटर ( 310 million cu mi ) with an average depth of.
It is the habitat of 230,000 known species, हालांकि much of the समंदर 's गहराइयों remain unexplored और it is अनुमानित कि over दो लाख marine species exist.
The origin of Earth 's oceans is स्टिल अनजान, लकिन महासागर हैं believed to have formed in the Hadean period and may have been the impetus for the emergence of life.
Extraterrestrial महासागर may be रचित of a चौड़ी दायरा of elements and compounds.
The only confirmed large stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface liquids are the lakes of Titan, हालांकि वहीँ is प्रमाण लिये the अस्तित्व of महासागर elsewhere in the सौर प्रणाली.
Early in उनके भूगर्भिक histories, मंगल और Venus are theorized to have had large water oceans.
The Mars ocean परिकल्पना suggests कि nearly a तीसरा of the सतह of मंगल थी एकबार covered by जल, हालांकि the जल on मंगल is no longer oceanic, and a runaway greenhouse effect may have boiled away the global ocean of Venus.
Compounds such as salts and ammonia dissolved in water lower its freezing point, so that water might मौजूद in विशाल quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting बर्फ.
Unconfirmed oceans are speculated beneath the सतह of अनेक बौना ग्रह और प्राकृतिक satellites ; notably, the समंदर of यूरोपा is believed to have over twice the water volume of Earth.
The Solar System 's gas giant planets are also believed to possess द्रव वायुमंडलीय परतों of yet to be confirmed compositions.
Oceans may भी मौजूद on exoplanets और exomoons, सहित सतह oceans of liquid water within a circumstellar habitable zone.
समंदर ग्रह हैं a काल्पनिक type of planet with a surface completely covered with liquid.
Elvis Aaron Presley ( January 8, 1935 – अगस्त 16, 1977 ) थी an अमरीकी सिंगर and actor.
A cultural icon, he is commonly ज्ञात by the सिंगल name Elvis.
One of the most लोकप्रिय संगीतकारों of the 20th सदी, he is प्रायः referred to as the `` King of Rock and Roll '' or `` the King ''.
Born in Tupelo, Mississippi, प्रेस्ली स्थानांतरित to मेम्फिस, टेनेसी, साथ उसके family at the age of 13.
He began his career there in 1954, working with Sun Records owner sam phillips, जो चाही to लाओ the ध्वनि of african-american म्यूज़िक to a wider दर्शक.
Accompanied by guitarist Scotty Moore and bassist Bill Black, प्रेस्ली थी the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण popularizer of rockabilly, an uptempo, backbeat -ड्राइवn संलयन of देश and rhythm and blues.
RCA Victor acquired his contract in a deal arranged by Colonel Tom पार्कर, जो गई on to मैनेज the सिंगर लिये over two decades.
Presley 's पहला आरसीए सिंगल, `` Heartbreak Hotel ``, released in January 1956, was a number-one hit.
He became the leading figure of the newly popular sound of चट्टान और फेंकें साथ a श्रेणी of संजाल टेलीविज़न दिखावे और chart-topping records.
His energized interpretations of गीतों, अनेक इससे african-american स्त्रोत, और उसके uninhibited प्रदर्शन स्टाइल बना उसे enormously popular—and controversial.
in नवम्बर 1956, he बना उसके film debut in Love Me Tender.
Drafted into सैन्य सेवा in 1958, प्रेस्ली relaunched उसके रिकॉर्डिंग करियर दो सालो बाद with some of his most commercially successful work.
He staged few concerts however, और हिदायत by पार्कर, proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to बनाना हॉलीवुड movies and soundtrack albums, most of them critically derided.
In 1968, after seven years away from the stage, he लौटे to सजीव प्रदर्शन in a मनाये वापसी टेलीविज़न खास कि led to an विस्तारित Las Vegas concert residency and a string of profitable tours.
In 1973 Presley staged the first कॉन्सर्ट ब्रॉडकास्ट globally via उपग्रह, aloha from Hawaii.
Prescription drug abuse severely deteriorated उसके स्वास्थ्य, और he died एकाएक in 1977 at the age of 42.
Presley is regarded as एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण आंकड़े of 20th-century popular culture.
He had a बहुमुखी आवाज़ और unusually चौड़ी कामयाबी encompassing अनेक जाति, including country, pop ballads, gospel, and blues.
He is the best-selling solo artist in the इतिहास of लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक.
Nominated लिये 14 प्रतिस्पर्धी grammys, he जीती तीन, और प्राप्त the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award at age 36.
He has महरूम inducted into अनेक म्यूज़िक halls of fame.
A कांच of रूट beer with foam
Root beer is a carbonated, sweetened beverage, originally made using the रूट of a sassafras संयंत्र ( or the छाल of a sassafras पेड़ ) as the primary flavor.
Root beer, popularized in North America, आता in दो फ़ॉर्म : alcoholic और नरम पेय.
the ऐतिहासिक रूट बियर थी analogous to छोटी बियर in कि the प्रक्रम provided a drink with a very low alcohol content.
Although roots are प्रयुक्त as the सोर्स of अनेक नरम पेय throughout the संसार, often different names are used.
Fluorescent minerals emit दृश्य लाइट जब उजागर to पराबैंगनी light
Fluorescence is the emission of लाइट by a पदार्थ कि रै अवशोषित लाइट or अन्य electromagnetic radiation.
It is a form of संदीप्ति.
In most cases, the emitted light has a longer wavelength, और इसलिए lower energy, than the absorbed radiation.
However, when the absorbed electromagnetic radiation is intense, it is possible for one electron to अवशोषित दो photons ; इस two-photon अवशोषण can सीसे to उत्सर्जन of विकिरण having a shorter wavelength than the absorbed radiation.
The emitted radiation may भी be of the वही wavelength as the अवशोषित विकिरण, termed `` resonance fluorescence ''.
The most striking examples of fluorescence occur when the अवशोषित विकिरण is in the पराबैंगनी प्रदेश of the वर्णक्रम, और यूँ अदृश्य to the इंसान नजर, and the emitted light is in the visible region.
Fluorescence has many practical applications, including mineralogy, gemology, chemical sensors ( प्रतिदीप्ति स्पेक्ट्रमिकी ), fluorescent लेबलिंग, dyes, biological डिटेक्टरों, और, सबसे commonly, fluorescent दीये.
Informal logic, intuitively, refers to the सिद्धान्त of लॉजिक और लॉजिकल विचार बाहर of a formal setting.
However, perhaps because of the अनौपचारिक in the शीर्षक, the precise परिभाषा of informal logic is a matter of some dispute.
Ralph H. Johnson and J. Anthony Blair define अनौपचारिक लॉजिक as `` a शाखा of लॉजिक जिनकी कार्य is to develop non-formal मानकों, मापदण्ड, procedures for the analysis, interpretation, evaluation, criticism and construction of argumentation. ''
This definition reflects what had been implicit in उनके अभ्यास और कया अन्य यहूद doing in उनके informal logic texts.
Informal logic is associated with ( informal ) fallacies, नाजुक सोच, the सोच कौशल गति and the interdisciplinary inquiry known as argumentation theory.
Frans H. van Eemeren writes that the लेबल `` अनौपचारिक लॉजिक '' कवर a `` संग्रहण of normative approaches to the study of reasoning in ordinary language that remain closer to the practice of argumentation than formal logic. ''
USA annual real GDP 1910–60, with the years of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960, साथ the सालो of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great Depression began in August of 1929, when the संयुक्त राज्य अर्थव्यवस्था पहला गई into an आर्थिक मंदी.
हालांकि the देश खर्च दो महीने साथ घटती जीडीपी, it थी नहीं जबतक the Wall Street Crash of October, 1929 that the effects of a declining economy were felt, and a major worldwide economic downturn ensued.
The market crash marked the शुरूआत of a दशक of ऊँची बेरोजगारी, गरीबी, कम profits, अपस्फीति, plunging फार्म incomes, and lost opportunities for economic growth and personal advancement.
Although its causes are still uncertain and controversial, the net effect was a अचानक और सामान्य घाटा of विश्वास in the आर्थिक भविष्य.
The usual explanations include numerous factors, especially high consumer debt, ill-regulated markets that permitted overoptimistic लोन by बैंको और निवेशकों, और the कमी of high-growth नई उद्योग, सब interacting to बनाएँ a downward आर्थिक सर्पिल of घटाया spending, falling confidence, and lowered production.
Industries कि suffered the सबसे शामिल निर्माण, कृषि as dust-bowl conditions persisted in the agricultural heartland, shipping, mining, and logging as well as durable goods like automobiles and appliances that could be postponed.
The economy reached bottom in the winter of 1932–33 ; then आए चार सालो of बहुत रैपिड विकास जबतक 1937, जब the मंदी of 1937 brought back 1934 levels of unemployment.
The Depression caused प्रमुख राजनैतिक परिवर्तन in America.
Three years into the depression, Herbert Hoover lost the 1932 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव to फ्रैंकलिन delano Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide.
Roosevelt 's economic recovery plan, the New Deal, instituted unprecedented कार्यक्रम लिये राहत, रिकवरी और सुधार, और brought परिचय a प्रमुख realignment of American politics.
The Depression also resulted in an बढ़ाएँ of करणों of लोगों to अन्य देशों for the first time in American history.
For example, some immigrants went back to their देशी देशों, और कुछ देशी us नागरिकों went to Canada, Australia, and South Africa.
It also resulted in the mass माइग्रेशन of लोगों इससे badly hit क्षेत्रों in the ग्रेट मैदान and the South to places such as California and the North, respectively ( see Okies and the Great Migration of African Americans ).
Racial तनाव भी increased दौरान this time.
By the 1940s immigration had लौटे वापस to सामान्य, और करणों declined.
A well-known example of an emigrant was Frank McCourt, who went to आयरलैंड, as recounted in उसके किताब एंजेला 's Ashes.
The memory of the Depression also shaped modern theories of economics और resulted in अनेक परिवर्तन in कैसा the सरकारी dealt साथ आर्थिक downturns, ऐसे as the उपयोग of stimulus packages, Keynesian economics, and Social Security.
It also shaped आधुनिक अमरीकी साहित्य, resulting in प्रसिद्ध novels ऐसे as जॉन steinbeck 's `` The Grapes of Wrath `` and `` Of Mice and Men ``.
The Great Depression of the 1930s प्रारंभ साथ the भण्डार मार्केट क्रैश of अक्तूबर 1929.
Turkey ( ), officially the Republic of Turkey, is a transcontinental देश, स्तिथ ज़्यादातर on आनातोलिया in Western Asia and on East Thrace in Southeastern Europe.
Turkey is bordered by eight countries : बुल्गारिया to the उत्तरपश्चिम ; यूनानियों to the वेस्ट ; जॉर्जिया to the पूर्वोत्तर ; अर्मेनिया, इरान और the Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan to the east ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast.
The Mediterranean Sea is to the south ; the Aegean Sea is to the वेस्ट ; और the ब्लैक समुद्र is to the उत्तर.
The Sea of Marmara, the Bosphorus and the dardanelles ( जिससे साथ रूप the तुर्की straits ) demarcate the boundary between thrace और आनातोलिया ; वे भी separate Europe and Asia.
Turkey 's location at the क्रॉसरोड्स of यूरोपीय और एशिया makes it a country of significant geostrategic importance.
The country 's official language is Turkish, a turkic भाषा, जिससे is बोला by लगभग 85 % of the population as mother tongue.
The most numerous जातीय समूह is the turks, who constitute between 70 % and 75 % of the population according to The World Factbook.
Kurds are the largest ethnic minority and, according to the वही सोर्स, क्रमांक around 18 % of the जनसांख्यिकी जबकि अन्य जातीय अल्पसंख्यकों हैं अनुमानित to be at 7–12 %.
The vast majority of the जनसांख्यिकी is मुस्लिम.
The area now called Turkey has been inhabited since the paleolithic, सहित विभिन्न प्राचीन आनातोलियाई सभ्यताओं और thracian peoples.
After Alexander the Great 's conquest, the area was Hellenized, which जारी साथ the रोमन नियम और the परिवर्तन into the बीज़ान्टिन साम्राज्य.
The Seljuk Turks began migrating into the area in the 11th century, starting the प्रक्रम of turkification, जिससे थी greatly त्वरित by the सलजूक़ victory over the Byzantines at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071.
The Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm ruled आनातोलिया जबतक the mongol आक्रमण in 1243, upon which it disintegrated into several small Turkish beyliks.
Starting from the late 13th सदी, the उस्मानी beylik संयुक्त आनातोलिया और निर्मित an साम्राज्य encompassing much of Southeastern Europe, Western Asia and North Africa.
After the Ottoman Empire collapsed following इसके शिकस्त in संसार युद्ध i, भाग of it were occupied by the victorious Allies.
A cadre of young military officers, led by mustafa kemal अतातुर्क और उसके सहयोगियों, व्यवस्थित a कामयाब प्रतिरोध to the allies ; in 1923 they established the modern Republic of Turkey, with Atatürk as its first president.
तुर्कों is a लोकतांत्रिक, धर्मनिरपेक्ष, एकात्मक, constitutional republic with a diverse cultural heritage.
तुर्कों रै become increasingly एकीकृत साथ the वेस्ट through सदस्यता in संगठनों ऐसे as the Council of Europe, NATO, OECD, OSCE and the G-20 major economies.
Turkey began full membership negotiations with the यूरोपीय संघ in 2005, having महरूम an संबद्ध सदस्य of the यूरोपीय Economic Community since 1963 and having joined the EU Customs Union in 1995.
Turkey has also fostered बंद सांस्कृतिक, राजनैतिक और आर्थिक संबंध साथ the मध्य ईस्ट, काकेशस, the turkic राज्य of सेंट्रल एशिया और the अफ़्रीकी देशों through सदस्यता in संगठनों such as the Turkic Council, Joint Administration of Turkic Arts and Culture, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the Economic Cooperation Organisation.
Turkey 's growing economy and diplomatic पहलों have led to इसके मान्यता as a क्षेत्रीय power.
Turkey is the world 's 17th largest economy by नाममात्र जीडीपी और the 16th largest by खरीदना power parity.
Caryn ऐलेन जॉनसन, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as whoopi गोल्डबर्ग (, ( born नवम्बर 13, 1955 ) is an American comedienne, actress, singer-songwriter, political activist, author and talk show host.
Goldberg made उसके फिल्मी डेब्यू in the रंग जामुनी ( 1985 ), playing Celie, a mistreated black woman in the Deep South.
She प्राप्त a नामांकन लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Actress and won her first Golden Globe Award for her role in the film.
In 1990, she played Oda Mae Brown, a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक swayze ) सहेजें उसके प्रेमी ( demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost.
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this made Goldberg only the दूसरी ब्लैक स्त्री in the इतिहास of the अकादमी पुरस्कार to जीत an एक्टिंग oscar—the पहला होने हैटी mcdaniel जो जीती लिये गए साथ the Wind in 1939.
notable बाद films शामिल सिस्टर अधिनियम और सिस्टर अधिनियम 2, The Player, Made in America, How Stella Got Her Groove Back, Girl, Interrupted and Rat Race.
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next पीढी, as टेरी doolittle in jumpin ' जोकर फ्लैश, और as कार्मेन tibideaux in ग्ली, as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King.
Goldberg has been nominated for 13 Emmy Awards for her कार्य in टेलीविज़न.
She was co-producer of the लोकप्रिय खेल दिखाएँ हॉलीवुड Squares from 1998 to 2004.
She has been the moderator of the दिन बात दिखाएँ the View since 2007.
Goldberg has a Grammy, two Daytime Emmys, two Golden Globes, a टोनी ( लिये उत्पादन, नहीं एक्टिंग ), और an Oscar.
In addition, गोल्डबर्ग रै a अंग्रेजों अकादमी फिल्मी पुरस्कार, चार लोगों 's Choice Awards, and has been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
She is one of the few entertainers who have जीती an एमी, ग्रैमी, ऑस्कर, और टोनी पुरस्कार.
Augusta is a संचित नगर in the u.S. राज्य of जॉर्जिया, स्तिथ at the fall line of the Savannah River, at the head of its navigable portion.
As of the 2010 census, the Augusta– Richmond County population was 195,844 नहीं गिनती the unconsolidated शहरों of hephzibah और blythe.
Augusta is the principal city of the Augusta – Richmond County Metropolitan Statistical Area, which as of 2010 था an अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of 556,877, बनाना it दोनो the second-largest नगर और the second-largest metro area in the state after Atlanta.
It is the 116th-largest city in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Internationally, Augusta is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये होस्टिंग the मास्टर्स टूर्नामेंट in golf each spring.
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क जिससे contains data.
The name is an एक्रोनिम जिससे स्टैंड लिये `` Compact Disc Read-only memory ``.
Computers can पढ़ा cd-roms, लकिन can नहीं लिखें on them.
CD-ROMs are popularly used to वितरित कंप्यूटर तन्त्र, सहित वीडियो खेल और मल्टीमीडिया अनुप्रयोग, हालांकि कोई data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ).
Some CDs, called enhanced CDs, hold both computer data and audio with the latter capable of being played on a CD खिलाड़ी, जबकि आंकड़ा ( ऐसे as तन्त्र or डिजिटल वीडियो ) is तभी usable on a कंप्यूटर ( ऐसे as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ).
The Yellow Book is the technical standard that defines the स्वरूप of cd-roms.
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical विशेषताएँ लिये सब CD formats, the Yellow Book, created by Sony and Philips, was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio.
It adapted the स्वरूप to hold any form of data.
The Chicago Blackhawks ( spelled as Black Hawks before 1986, and known colloquially as the Hawks ) हैं a पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी टोली आधारित in शिकागो, इलिनोइस.
They are members of the Central Division of the Western Conference of the नेशनल हॉकी लीग ( NHL ).
वे have जीती चार स्टेनली कप championships चूंकि their founding in 1926, most recently in 2009–10.
The ब्लैकहॉक्स हैं एक of the असली छह एनएचएल टीमों, साथ साथ the Detroit Red Wings, Montreal Canadiens, Toronto Maple Leafs, Boston Bruins and New York Rangers.
Since the Blackhawks have played their home games at the United Center बाद having खर्च 65 सालो playing at शिकागो स्टेडियम.
Lent celebrants carrying आउट a गली बारात दौरान पावन सप्ताह.
The violet रंग is प्रायः संबद्ध with penance and detachment.
Similar Christian penitential practice is देखी in अन्य कैथोलिक देशों, sometimes संबद्ध with mortification of the flesh.
Granada, निकारागुआ.
Lent ( Latin : Quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical year of many Christian denominations, स्थायी लिये a काल of लगभग छह सप्ताह अग्रणी up to Easter Sunday.
In the general Latin-rite and most पश्चिमी denominations lent is लिया to चलाएं इससे राख बुधवार to maundy गुरुवार ( पावन गुरुवार ) morning or to Easter Eve.
In the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर, lent lasts जबतक Holy Thursday, while other denominations run until Easter Eve.
The traditional purpose of Lent is the तैयारी of the आस्तिक through दुआ, penance, repentance, almsgiving, and self-denial.
Its institutional purpose is heightened in the annual commemoration of Holy सप्ताह, अंकन the मौत, दफ़न और क़यामत of यीशु, जिससे recalls the कार्यक्रम of the बाइबल जब यीशु is crucified on Good Friday, which then culminates in the celebration on Easter Sunday of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ.
During Lent, many of the वफादार कमिट to उपवास or giving up निश्चित प्रकार of luxuries as a form of penitence.
The Stations of the क्रॉस, a devotional commemoration of मसीह 's carrying the Cross and of his execution, are often observed.
Many Roman Catholic and some Protestant churches remove flowers from their altars, while crucifixes, धार्मिक मूर्तियाँ, और अन्य विस्तृत धार्मिक प्रतीकों हैं प्रायः रहमत in बैंगनी fabrics in solemn observance of the event.
In certain pious Catholic countries, some adherents mark the season साथ the परंपरागत abstention इससे the खपत of मांस.
In some countries, grand religious processions and cultural customs हैं observed, और the वफादार attempt to विज़िट सात churches during Holy Week in honor of Jesus Christ heading to Mount Calvary.
Lent is traditionally described as lasting for forty days, in commemoration of the चालीस दिनों जिससे, according to the gospels of मैथ्यू, चिह्नित और ल्यूक, यीशु खर्च उपवास in the desert before the beginning of his public ministry, where he endured temptation by the Devil.
however, अलग ईसाई denominations calculate the forty days of Lent differently.
In most Western परंपराओं the sundays हैं नहीं गिने as भाग of lent ; यूँ the काल from Ash Wednesday until Easter consists of 40 days when the Sundays are excluded.
However in the Roman Catholic गिरिजाघर lent is अभी लिया to समाप्त on पावन गुरुवार बल्कि than Easter Eve, and hence lasts 38 days excluding Sundays, or 44 days in total.
This event, along with इसके परहेज़गारों कस्टम हैं observed by catholics, lutherans, methodists, Presbyterians, and Anglicans.
स्थान of chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति plant
The abandoned city of Pripyat साथ chernobyl संयंत्र in the distance
abandoned आवास ब्लॉक in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 अप्रैल 1986 at the chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in युक्त ( तब officially the यूक्रेनी ssr ), जिससे थी अंतर्गत the सीधा क्षेत्राधिकार of the central authorities of the Soviet Union.
An explosion and fire released large quantities of radioactive particles into the माहौल, जिससे स्प्रेड over much of the पश्चिमी ussr और यूरोपीय.
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र दुर्घटना in इतिहास, और is एक of तभी दो वर्गीकृत as a स्तर 7 इवेंट on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Nuclear Event Scale ( the other being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ).
The battle to contain the संदूषण और avert a वृहद प्रलय ultimately शामिल over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles.
The official Soviet casualty गिनती of 31 मौतों रै महरूम विवादित, और long-term प्रभाव ऐसे as cancers और deformities are still being accounted for.
In grammar, a subject complement is a predicative expression that follows a linking क्रिया ( copula ) और कि complements ( completes ) the विषय of the वाक्य by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it.
in the पूर्व मामला, a renaming संज्ञा phrase ऐसे as a संज्ञा or pronoun is called a predicative nominal.
An adjective following the copula and describing the विषय is पुकारा a predicative क्रियाशील.
In either मामला the predicative पूरक in प्रभाव mirrors the subject.
Subject complements are used साथ a छोटी क्लास of क्रियाएँ पुकारा linking क्रियाएँ or copula, of which be is the most common.
Since copula हैं stative क्रियाएँ, विषय complements हैं नहीं प्रभावित by any action of the verb.
Subject complements हैं typically नहीं clause वितर्क, nor are they clause adjuncts.
Throughout the fifty-five साल इतिहास of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, अनेक significant records have been set.
This पेज तभी शामिल the प्रतिस्पर्धी awards won by various artists.
This does not include the various special awards that are प्रस्तुत by the नेशनल अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और sciences ऐसे as आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार, trustees पुरस्कार, तकनीकी पुरस्कार or लेजेंड Awards.
The page however does include other non-performance related grammys ( ज्ञात as the शिल्प & उत्पादन फ़ील्ड ) कि may have महरूम presented to the artist ( s ).
Marshall Bruce Mathers III ( born October 17, 1972 ), better known by his stage name Eminem ( stylized as EMINƎM ) और by उसके alter अहंकार पतला छायादार, is an अमरीकी rapper, रिकार्ड निर्माता, songwriter and actor.
Eminem, along साथ उसके सोलो करियर, is a सदस्य of उसके समूह d12, और भी एक हाफ of the हिप हॉप duo ख़राब meets Evil, with Royce da 5'9 ''.
Eminem is one of the best-selling कलाकारों in the संसार और is the best-selling artist of the 2000s.
He has been listed and ranked as one of the महानतम कलाकारों of सब समय by अनेक मैगज़ीन, सहित रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका जिससे क्रमित उसे 82nd on its list of The 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.
The same पत्रिका घोषित उसे The King of Hip Hop.
Including his work with D12 and Bad meets दुष्ट, एमिनेम रै हासिल टेन number-one एल्बम on the Billboard 200.
He has sold अधिक than 100 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, सहित 42 million tracks and 49.1 million albums in the United States.
As an underground rapper एमिनेम released उसके डेब्यू सोलो एल्बम, अनन्त in 1996.
The एल्बम थी a नाजुक and commercial failure.
He gained mainstream popularity in 1999 after the release of his major-label डेब्यू एल्बम the पतला छायादार lp.
The LP also earned Eminem his पहला ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन रैप एल्बम.
His next two records The Marshall Mathers LP, and The Eminem दिखाएँ, भी जीती बेहतरीन रैप एल्बम ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, बनाना एमिनेम the पहला artist to win Best Rap Album for three consecutive LPs.
This was followed by another स्टुडियो रिलीज in 2004 titled Encore.
Eminem then went on अंतराल बाद touring in 2005.
He released his first album in five सालो titled पतन, on may 15, 2009.
In 2010, Eminem released उसके सातवाँ स्टुडियो एल्बम Recovery.
Recovery was an अंतरराष्ट्रीय कामयाबी और थी नामित the बेहतरीन selling एल्बम of 2010 विश्वव्यापी, joining The Eminem Show, which was the best seller of 2002.
एमिनेम जीती ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये दोनो पतन और रिकवरी, giving him a total of 13 Grammys in his career.
Eminem has opened other ventures, सहित उसके अपना रिकार्ड लेबल छायादार रिकॉर्ड with his manager Paul Rosenberg.
He also has his own radio चैनल, शेड 45 on sirius xm रेडियो.
Eminem began an एक्टिंग करियर in 2002, जब he स्ट्रक्चर in the hip hop drama film 8 Mile.
he जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन असली सोंग, बनने the first rap artist ever to win the award.
He has also made cameo appearances in The Wash ( 2001 ), मजेदार लोगों ( 2009 ) और the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी Entourage.
The एकड़ is a ईकाई of क्षेत्रफल प्रयुक्त in the imperial and U.S. customary systems.
An acre is about 40 % of a हेक्टेयर – थोड़ा छोटी than an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल field.
The acre is no longer commonly used, हालांकि a few notable अपवाद शामिल the संयुक्त राज्य, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, बर्मा और the संयुक्त किंगडम ( as of 2010, the acre is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom, though is still used in real estate descriptions ).
It is still used, to कुछ extent, in Canada.
The international symbol of the एकड़ is ac, और is पारिभाषित as 1/640 of a square mile.
The most commonly used acre today is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़.
In the संयुक्त राज्य दोनो the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ और the slightly different US survey acre are in use.
The most आम उपयोग of the एकड़ is to measure tracts of land.
One अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224 वर्गाकार मीटर.
During the मध्य आयु, an एकड़ थी the राशि of जमीन कि could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen.
Antoine Lavoisier 's discovery of the विधि of संरक्षण of द्रव्यमान led to अनेक new findings in the 19th century.
Joseph Proust 's law of definite proportions और जॉन डाल्टन 's परमाणु सिद्धान्त branched इससे the discoveries of Antoine Lavoisier.
Lavoisier 's quantitative प्रयोग नाज़िल कि दहन शामिल oxygen rather than what was previously thought to be phlogiston.
The law of conservation of mass, or principle of mass conservation, states that for any system closed to all transfers of matter and energy ( both of which have द्रव्यमान ), the द्रव्यमान of the प्रणाली जरूर remain निरंतर over समय, as प्रणाली द्रव्यमान can नहीं बदलें मात्रा if it is नहीं added or removed.
Hence, the मात्रा of द्रव्यमान is `` conserved '' over time.
The law implies that mass can neither be created nor नष्ट, हालांकि it may be rearranged in स्पेस, or the entities संबद्ध साथ it may be बदला in form, as for example when light or physical work is transformed into particles that contribute the same mass to the system as the light or work had contributed.
The law implies ( requires ) that during any chemical reaction, nuclear reaction, or रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय in an पृथक प्रणाली, the द्रव्यमान of the reactants or starting सामग्री जरूर बराबर the द्रव्यमान of the products.
The concept of mass संरक्षण is widely प्रयुक्त in अनेक फ़ील्ड ऐसे as रसायन, mechanics, and fluid dynamics.
Historically, mass conservation was खोजा in रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ by एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये in the लेट 18th सदी, और थी of निर्णायक महत्व in the progress from alchemy to the modern natural science of chemistry.
The closely related concept of matter conservation was found to hold good in chemistry to such high approximation that it failed only for the high energies treated by the later refinements of आपेक्षिकता सिद्धान्त, लकिन वरना remains उपयोगी और fear सटीक लिये सबसे रासायनिक calculations, भी in आधुनिक practice.
In special relativity, needed for accuracy when विशाल उर्जा हस्तांतरण between प्रणालियों is शामिल, the अंतर between thermodynamically बंद और पृथक प्रणालियों becomes महत्वपूर्ण, since conservation of mass is strictly and perfectly upheld only for so-called isolated systems, i.e. those completely isolated from all exchanges with the environment.
In this circumstance, the mass-energy equivalence प्रमेय राज्य कि द्रव्यमान संरक्षण is समतुल्य to कुल उर्जा conservation, which is the first law of thermodynamics.
By contrast, for a thermodynamically closed system ( i.e., one which is closed to exchanges of matter, but खोलें to exchanges of non-material उर्जा, ऐसे as ऊष्मा और कार्य, साथ the परिवेश ) mass is ( usually ) only approximately conserved.
The input or output of non-material energy must change the द्रव्यमान of the प्रणाली in आपेक्षिकता सिद्धान्त, हालांकि the बदलें is प्रायः छोटी, चूंकि अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts of ऐसे उर्जा ( by comparison with ordinary experience ) carry only a small amount of mass ( again by ordinary standards of measurement ).
In special relativity, mass is not converted to energy, since energy in सब of इसके फ़ॉर्म सदा retains इसके समतुल्य राशि of द्रव्यमान throughout कोई परिवर्तन or translocation into, or out of, a system.
However, निश्चित प्रकार of पदार्थ ( a अलग अवधारणा ) may be converted to energy, so long as the mass of the system is unchanged in the process.
However, if such energy is removed from systems, they जरूर खोना the द्रव्यमान कि is संबद्ध with it.
In general relativity, mass ( and energy ) संरक्षण in expanding आयतन of स्पेस is a जटिल अवधारणा, विषय to अलग definitions, and neither mass nor energy is as strictly and simply conserved as is the case in special relativity and in Minkowski space.
For a चर्चा, देखिए द्रव्यमान in सामान्य आपेक्षिकता.
A pig is any of the animals in the genus सस, भीतर the suidae परिवार of even-toed ungulates.
Pigs include the domestic pig, its ancestor the wild boar, और अनेक अन्य जंगली रिश्तेदारों.
Young और छोटी सूअर हैं known as piglets.
सूअर हैं omnivores और हैं highly social and intelligent animals.
8-inch, -inch, और -inch फ्लॉपी disks
8-inch, -inch ( पूरा ऊँचाई ), और -inch drives
A 3.5-inch diskette 's `` फ्लॉपी '' चुम्बकीय material, removed from its housing
A floppy डिस्क, or diskette, is a डिस्क भंडार मीडियम रचित of a डिस्क of पतला और लचीली चुम्बकीय भंडार मीडियम, sealed in a rectangular plastic carrier lined with fabric that removes dust particles.
They are पढ़ा और लिखा by a फ्लॉपी डिस्क drive ( FDD ).
Floppy disks, initially as media and later in and 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) आकार, यहूद a सर्वव्यापी रूप of आंकड़ा भंडार और एक्सचेंज इससे the mid-1970s खूब into the first decade of the 21st century.
By 2010, computer motherboards were rarely manufactured साथ फ्लॉपी ड्राइव support ; `` floppies could be प्रयुक्त as an बाह्य usb ड्राइव, लकिन ``, 8 ``, and non-standard drives could only be handled by old equipment.
While floppy disk drives still have some limited uses, विशेषकर साथ विरासत औद्योगिक कंप्यूटर उपकरण, वे have महरूम superseded by आंकड़ा भंडार विधि with much greater capacity, such as USB flash drives, portable external hard disk drives, optical discs, memory cards, and computer networks.
An animated आरेख of a कटर
In baseball, a cutter, or cut fastball, is a type of fastball जिससे ब्रेक थोड़ा toward the पिचर 's दस्ताने पक्ष as it reaches home plate.
This pitch is somewhere between a स्लाइडर और a fastball, as it is प्रायः thrown तेज़ than a स्लाइडर लकिन with more motion than a typical fastball.
Some pitchers use a कटर as a रास्ता to prevent hitters from expecting their regular fastballs.
A common technique used to throw a cutter is to use a four-seam fastball grip with the बेसबॉल नियत थोड़ा बंद बीच in the हाथ.
When a बैटर is समर्थ to hit a कटर पिच, it प्रायः परिणाम in नरम सम्पर्क और an आसान आउट, due to the pitch 's movement keeping the ball away from the bat 's sweet spot.
The cutter is typically 2–5 mph slower than a पिचर 's four-seam fastball.
In 2010, the average pitch classified as a cutter by PITCHf/x thrown by a right-handed पिचर थी 88.6 किमी ; the औसत four-seamer थी 92.1 mph.
`` What It takes '' is a शक्ति ballad by अमरीकी hard rock band Aerosmith.
it थी लिखा by स्टीवन टायलर, जो Perry, and Desmond Child.
It was released in 1990 as the तीसरा सिंगल इससे एरोस्मिथ 's critically and commercially successful 1989 album Pump.
In the video The Making of पंप, a & r man जॉन kalodner वर्णित the सोंग as `` a कलाकृति ''.
दौरान सजीव प्रदर्शन, टायलर गाती the पहला verse a cappella and belts out one of his signature screams right before the chorus.
The एल्बम संस्करण of the सोंग is followed by an untitled hidden track.
Head of Odysseus from a Greek 2nd century BC marble group representing odysseus blinding polyphemus, मिला at the विला of tiberius at Sperlonga
विवरण of an प्राचीन रोमन mosaic of Ulysses in Tunisia
Odysseus ( or ; यूनानी :, ), भी ज्ञात by the रोमन नाम ulysses ( ; ), थी a legendary Greek king of Ithaca and a hero of Homer 's epic poem the Odyssey.
Odysseus also plays a key role in Homer 's इलियड और अन्य works in कि वही Epic Cycle.
Husband of Penelope, पिता of telemachus, और बेटे of laërtes ( or sisyphus ) and Anticlea, Odysseus is renowned for his brilliance, guile, and versatility ( polytropos ), and is hence known by the epithet Odysseus the Cunning ( mētis, or `` cunning intelligence `` ).
He is most famous for the ten eventful सालो he took to वापसी घर बाद the decade-long Trojan War and his famous Trojan Horse ploy to capture the city of Troy.
Erie is a Statutory Town in बोल्डर और वेल्ड काउंटी in the u.S. state of Colorado.
The जनसांख्यिकी according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी is 18,135 और was recorded as 6,291 at the 2000 census.
The कस्बा of erie is स्तिथ बस वेस्ट of i-25 लिये आसान अभिगम to i-70, डेनवर अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport and Colorado 's entire Front Range.
Erie 's Planning Area spans 48 square miles, extending from the north पक्ष of राज्य राजमार्ग 52 दक्षिण to राज्य राजमार्ग 7, और between us 287 on the west and Interstate 25 to the east.
Erie is approximately 35 मिनट्स इससे डेनवर अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र, 25 मिनट्स to डेनवर and 20 minutes from Boulder.
the फलक of trustees serves as the विधान और शासी देह of the Town of Erie and is responsible for establishing Town policies and goals.
The Board has the authority to adopt laws, ordinances and resolutions as needed to conduct the कारोबार of the कस्बा, और by अध्यादेश may डालें into अनुबंध or intergovernmental समझौतों to furnish, receive services or to provide for cooperative service delivery.
Appointed by and serving at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees, the Town Administrator is the मुख्य ऑपरेटिंग और प्रशासनिक अधिकारी of the कस्बा और is जिम्मेदार लिये providing पेशेवर नेतृत्व in the प्रशासन and execution of policies and objectives formulated by the Board.
The मिशन of the erie पुलिस विभाग is to communicate और कार्य साथ the जातियाँ to maintain a safe environment, prevent crime and enforce the law, while protecting the rights of all.
Erie Municipal Airport ( EIK ) is owned and operated by the Town of Erie and is strategically located in the denver-boulder महानगर क्षेत्रफल on कोलोराडो Highway 7, a little over three miles west of Interstate 25.
The main runway is कंक्रीट प्रशस्त और 4,700 फीट long.
The is a home वीडियो खेल कंसोल उत्पादित by सोनी Computer Entertainment.
It is the successor to the प्लेस्टेशन 2, as भाग of the प्लेस्टेशन श्रेणी.
The PlayStation 3 competes साथ microsoft 's एक्सबॉक्स 360 और निन्टेंडो 's वी as भाग of the seventh generation of video game consoles.
it थी पहला released on नवम्बर 11, 2006, in Japan, with international markets following shortly thereafter.
The कंसोल थी पहला officially announced at E3 2005.
Originally set for a वसन्त 2006 रिलीज तिथि, it थी विलम्बित अनेक टाइम्स जबतक finally hitting stores at the end of the year.
It was the first and फिलहाल तभी कंसोल to उपयोग blu-ray डिस्क as इसके प्राथमिक storage medium.
Major features of the console include इसके एकीकृत ऑनलाइन गेमिंग सेवा, the प्लेस्टेशन संजाल, और इसके कनेक्टिविटी साथ the प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल और प्लेस्टेशन Vita, In September 2009 the updated PlayStation 3 Slim, was released.
This Slim is lighter और thinner than the असली संस्करण, हालांकि it lacks प्लेस्टेशन 2 पीछे संगतता ( removed on later original models ), but notably featured a re-designed logo and marketing design.
As of November 4, 2012, 70 लाख प्लेस्टेशन 3s have महरूम sold worldwide.
Its successor, PlayStation 4, is नियत लिये a q4 2013 रिलीज.
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech, 1st marqués de dalí de pubol ( may 11, 1904january 23, 1989 ), ज्ञात as साल्वाडोर dalí ( ), was a prominent Spanish surrealist painter born in Figueres, Spain.
Dalí was a skilled draftsman, बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये the striking and bizarre images in his surrealist work.
His painterly skills are often attributed to the influence of पुनर्जागरण मास्टर्स.
उसके best-known कार्य, The Persistence of Memory, was completed in 1931.
dalí 's expansive कलाकारी रंगमंडल शामिल फिल्मी, sculpture, and photography, in collaboration with a range of artists in a variety of media.
Dalí attributed his `` love of everything that is gilded and excessive, my passion for luxury and my love of oriental clothes '' to a self-styled `` Arab lineage '', claiming कि उसके पूर्वजो यहूद descended from the Moors.
Dalí was highly imaginative, और भी enjoyed indulging in असामान्य and grandiose behavior.
His eccentric manner and attention-grabbing public actions sometimes खींचा अधिक ध्यान than उसके कलाकृति, to the dismay of those जो आयोजित उसके work in high esteem, and to the irritation of his critics.
पारस प्लेटो by silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines that study इंसान संस्कृति, using विधि कि हैं primarily विश्लेषणात्मक, नाजुक, or सट्टे, और having a significant ऐतिहासिक तत्व, as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences.
The humanities include ancient and modern languages, literature, दर्शनशास्त्र, धर्म, और विज़ुअल और performing कला such as music and theatre.
The humanities that are also regarded as social sciences include इतिहास, मानवशास्त्र, क्षेत्रफल अध्ययन, संचार अध्ययन, सांस्कृतिक अध्ययन, law, economics and linguistics.
Scholars working in the मानवता are sometimes described as `` humanists ''.
However, that term also describes the philosophical स्थिति of मानवतावाद, जिससे कुछ `` antihumanist `` scholars in the humanities reject.
Some द्वितीयक स्कूलों प्रस्ताव मानवता वर्ग, प्रायः consisting of English literature, global studies, and art.
Human disciplines like history, cultural anthropology and मनोविश्लेषण पढ़ाई विषय matters to जिससे the प्रायोगिक विधि करता not apply, and they have access instead to the comparative method and comparative research.
The 2005 ब्लू रूम क्रिसमस Tree
The श्वेत हाउस क्रिसमस पेड़, भी ज्ञात as the ब्लू रूम क्रिसमस पेड़, is the आधिकारिक अंदर Christmas tree at the residence of the President of the United States, the White House.
The first indoor Christmas tree was installed in the White House sometime in the 19th century ( there are varying claims as to the सटीक साल ) और चूंकि 1961 the पेड़ रै था a प्रसंग मोटिफ at the discretion of the पहला महिला of the United States.
The President of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका ( potus ) is the head of state and head of government of the United States.
The president leads the executive branch of the संघीय सरकारी और is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the execution of federal law, alongside the जिम्मेदारी of appointing संघीय कार्यपालिका, राजनयिक, नियामक, और न्यायिक अधिकारियों, और concluding treaties साथ विदेशी शक्तियां, साथ the सलाह और सहमति of the सीनेट.
The president is further सशक्त to ग्रान्ट संघीय pardons और reprieves, और to convene and adjourn either or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances.
Since the founding of the United States, the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially और प्रत्येक आधुनिक अध्यक्ष, despite possessing no औपचारिक विधान शक्तियां परे हस्ताक्षर or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स, is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
The अध्यक्ष is अक्सर described as the most powerful person in the world.
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year पद, और is एक of तभी दो nationally निर्वाचित संघीय अधिकारियों, the अन्य being the Vice President of the United States.
The Twenty-second Amendment, adopted in 1951, prohibits anyone इससे कभी होने निर्वाचित to the प्रेसिडेंसी for a third full term.
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency अधिक than एकबार if कि व्यक्ति previously था परोसा as अध्यक्ष, or एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष, लिये अधिक than two years of another person 's term as president.
In all, 43 individuals have परोसा 55 four-year terms.
On जनवरी 20, 2009, बराक ओबामा became the 44th and current president.
On November 6, 2012, he was re-elected और is अनुसूचित to serve जबतक जनवरी 20, 2017.
Senses are physiological capacities of जीवों कि provide आंकड़ा लिये perception.
The senses and their operation, classification, and theory are overlapping topics studied by a variety of फ़ील्ड, सबसे notably neuroscience, संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान ( or संज्ञानात्मक विज्ञान ), और दर्शनशास्त्र of perception.
The nervous system has a specific sensory system or अंग, समर्पित to प्रत्येक भाव.
Humans have a multitude of होश.
Sight ( ophthalmoception ), सुनना ( audioception ), स्वाद ( gustaoception ), smell ( olfacoception or olfacception ), and touch ( tactioception ) are the five traditionally recognized.
While the ability to detect other stimuli beyond those governed by the traditional senses exists, including temperature ( thermoception ), kinesthetic sense ( proprioception ), pain ( nociception ), संतुलन ( equilibrioception ), त्वरण ( kinesthesioception ), और विभिन्न आतंरिक stimuli ( e.g. the अलग chemoreceptors लिये detecting नमक और कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड एकाग्रता in the रक्त ), तभी a छोटी क्रमांक of ये can safely be classified as separate senses in and of themselves.
What constitutes a sense is a पदार्थ of कुछ बहस, अग्रणी to कठिनाइयों in धमक what exactly a sense is.
Animals also have receptors to भाव the संसार around उन्हें, साथ डिग्री of काबिलियत varying greatly between species.
Humans have a comparatively weak sense of महकते, जबकि कुछ पशु may कमी एक or अधिक of the परंपरागत five senses.
Some animals may also सेवन और interpret संवेदी stimuli in very different ways.
Some प्रजाति of पशु हैं समर्थ to भाव the संसार in a रास्ता कि इंसानो can नहीं, साथ कुछ प्रजाति समर्थ to sense electrical and magnetic fields, and detect water pressure and currents.
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that have आठ टाँगे और chelicerae साथ fangs कि inject venom.
They are the largest order of arachnids और रैंक सातवाँ in कुल प्रजाति विविधता among सब अन्य समूह of organisms.
Spiders are found worldwide on प्रत्येक महाद्वीप मगर लिये अंटार्कटिक, और have become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at least 43,678 spider species, and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however, there has been confusion within the scientific जातियाँ as to कैसा सब ये परिवारों चाहिए be वर्गीकृत, as evidenced by the over 20 अलग classifications कि have been proposed since 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body segments are fused into two tagmata, the cephalothorax और उदर, और joined by a छोटी, बेलनाकार pedicel.
नापसंद कीट, मकड़ियों do not have antennae.
In all मगर the सबसे आदिम समूह, the mesothelae, मकड़ियों have the सबसे centralized बेचैन प्रणालियों of सब arthropods, as सब उनके ganglia are fused into one mass in the cephalothorax.
Unlike सबसे arthropods, मकड़ियों have no extensor मांसपेशियां in their limbs and instead extend them by hydraulic pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been modified into spinnerets कि extrude रेशा इससे up to छह प्रकार of रेशा ग्रंथियों भीतर उनके abdomen.
Spider webs vary widely in आकार, आकार और the राशि of sticky thread used.
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be एक of the earliest फ़ॉर्म, और मकड़ियों कि उपज उलझे cobwebs हैं अधिक abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the devonian काल परिचय, लकिन ये पशु जाहिर lacked spinnerets.
True मकड़ियों have महरूम मिला in carboniferous रॉक्स इससे, और हैं बहुत समान to the most primitive surviving order, the Mesothelae.
The main groups of modern spiders, mygalomorphae और araneomorphae, पहला appeared in the Triassic period, before.
A herbivorous species, Bagheera kiplingi, was described in 2008, but all other known species are predators, ज़्यादातर preying on कीट और on अन्य spiders, although a few large species also take birds and lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in स्टिकी webs, lassoing it साथ स्टिकी bolas, mimicking the prey to avoid detection, or running it down.
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations, but the active hunters have अधि दृष्टि, और hunters of the genus portia दिखाएँ लक्षण of प्रज्ञा in उनके choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones.
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids, and they liquidize their food by flooding it साथ digestive एंजाइमों और पीस it साथ the bases of उनके pedipalps, as वे do not have true jaws.
Male मकड़ियों पहचानो themselves by a किस्में of जटिल प्रेमालाप संस्कार to avoid being eaten by the females.
Males of most species survive a few matings, सीमित mainly by their short life spans.
Females weave रेशा egg-cases, प्रत्येक of जिससे may contain hundreds of eggs.
Females of many species care for उनके यंग, लिये उदाहरण by carrying उन्हें around or by sharing food with them.
A minority of species are social, भवन सांप्रदायिक webs कि may हाउस anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration, as in the विधवा मकड़ियों, to co-operative शिकार और food-sharing.
Although most spiders live for at most two years, tarantulas and other mygalomorph मकड़ियों can सजीव up to 25 सालो in captivity.
While the venom of a few प्रजाति is खतरनाक to इंसानो, scientists are now researching the use of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, strength and लोच कि is श्रेष्ठ to कि of सिंथेटिक सामग्री, और मकड़ी रेशा जीनों have महरूम inserted into स्तनधारियों और plants to see if these can be used as silk factories.
As a result of their चौड़ी दायरा of व्यवहार, मकड़ियों have become आम प्रतीकों in आर्ट और mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience, cruelty and creative powers.
Grey 's Anatomy is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न चिकित्सा नाटक कि premiered on the अमरीकी प्रसारण Company ( ABC ), as a mid-season replacement on March 27, 2005.
The series has aired nine सीज़न, और focuses on the fictional जीवनदान of सर्जिकल interns और residents as they gradually evolve into seasoned doctors, while trying to maintain personal lives.
The show 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes, who serves as an executive निर्माता, साथ साथ बेट्सी beers, चिह्नित गॉर्डन, Krista Vernoff, Rob Corn, Mark Wilding, and Allan Heinberg.
The series was created to be racially विविध, utilizing a color-blind ढलाई technique.
It is primarily filmed in लॉस एंजिल्स, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
The series ' protagonist is Dr. Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo ), जो originally is स्वीकृत into the रेसिडेंसी कार्यक्रम at the fictional सिएटल Grace Hospital.
Meredith is assigned to work under Dr. Miranda Bailey ( Chandra Wilson ), साथ साथ dr. क्रिस्टीना यांग ( सैंड्रा oh ), dr. जार्ज o'malley ( T. R. नाईट ), dr. izzie स्टीवंस ( Katherine Heigl ), and Dr. Alex Karev ( Justin Chambers ).
Following O'Malley 's death and Stevens ' departure, the hospital 's merger with Mercy West brings in Dr. Jackson Avery ( जेसी विलियम्स ) और dr. अप्रैल kepner ( सारा खींचा ), in the sixth season.
The surgical wing is primarily पर्यवेक्षित by dr. रिचर्ड webber ( जेम्स pickens, jr. ), जो is आखिरकार replaced by dr. Derek Shepherd ( Patrick Dempsey ), and later Dr. Owen Hunt ( Kevin McKidd ).
Dr. Preston Burke ( Isaiah Washington ) departs at the निष्कर्ष of the तीसरा ऋतु, और is replaced by dr. एरिका hahn ( ब्रुक स्मिथ ), जो पत्ते the दिखाएँ दौरान the fifth season, and later Dr. Teddy Altman ( Kim Raver ), who departs at the end of the eighth season.
Introduced in the second season is Dr. Addison मोंटगोमरी ( केट वाल्श ), जो पत्ते the दिखाएँ at the समाप्त of the तीसरा ऋतु, in order to launch her own spin-off medical drama Private Practice.
Dr. Callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez ) and Dr. Mark Sloan ( Eric Dane ) भी डालें the दिखाएँ in the दूसरी ऋतु, जबकि the latter मरता in the प्रीमियर of the ninth season.
Meredith 's half-sister, Dr. Lexie धूसर ( chyler leigh ), appears इससे ऋतु तीन और मरता at the end of season eight.
Dr. Arizona Robbins ( Jessica Capshaw ) is दिए श्रेणी नियमित औकात at the शुरूआत of the sixth season.
Grey 's anatomy is the highest-rated नाटक in the key 18–49 demographic.
Previously among the overall top-ten rated shows in the संयुक्त राज्य, धूसर 's anatomy रै महरूम खूब प्राप्त by critics.
Considered an impact on संस्कृति, the श्रेणी रै प्राप्त numerous पुरस्कार, और रै भी महरूम included in various critics ' top ten lists.
The show has उत्पादित अनेक specials, as खूब as distributed all seasons to DVD, and released a collection of merchandise.
In 2012, Grey 's Anatomy was नामित the fifth-highest आय कमाई show, in terms of advertising per half-hour.
On May 11, 2012, the series was नवीनीकृत लिये a नवीं ऋतु, जिससे premiered on सितंबर 27, 2012.
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a दिमागी विकार characterized by a विश्लेषण of विचार प्रक्रियाओं and by a deficit of typical emotional responses.
Common symptoms include auditory मति, paranoid or विचित्र delusions, or disorganized वाक और thinking, and it is accompanied by significant social or occupational dysfunction.
The onset of symptoms typically occurs in young adulthood, साथ a वैश्विक आजीवन व्यापकता of about 0.3–0.7 %.
Diagnosis is आधारित on observed बर्ताव और the patient 's reported experiences.
आनुवंशिकी, जल्दी पर्यावरण, neurobiology, और मनोवैज्ञानिक और सोशल प्रक्रियाओं appear to be महत्वपूर्ण contributory कारकों ; some recreational and prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen symptoms.
Current research is केन्द्रित on the भूमिका of neurobiology, हालांकि no सिंगल isolated organic cause has been found.
The many possible combinations of लक्षण have triggered बहस about whether the diagnosis represents a single disorder or a number of discrete syndromes.
Despite the etymology of the term from the Greek roots skhizein ( σχίζειν, `` to split '' ) and phrēn, phren- ( φρήν, φρεν- ; `` दिमाग '' ), schizophrenia करता नहीं imply a `` विभाजित व्यक्तित्व '', or `` अनेक व्यक्तित्व विकार '' ( जिससे is ज्ञात ये दिनों as dissociative पहचान विकार ) —a कंडीशन साथ जिससे it is often confused in public perception.
Rather, the term means a `` splitting of mental कृत्यों '', क्युकी of the symptomatic प्रस्तुतीकरण of the illness.
The mainstay of उपचार is antipsychotic दवा, जिससे primarily दबा dopamine ( and sometimes serotonin ) receptor activity.
मनोचिकित्सा और वोकेशनल और सोशल rehabilitation are also important in treatment.
In more serious cases—where वहीँ is रिस्क to स्वः और others— involuntary hospitalization may be जरुरी, हालांकि hospital stays are now shorter and less frequent than they once were.
The disorder is thought mainly to affect cognition, लकिन it भी प्रायः contributes to दीर्घकालिक problems with behavior and emotion.
People with schizophrenia हैं संभावित to have अतिरिक्त ( comorbid ) शर्तें, सहित प्रमुख अवसाद और चिंता विकार ; the lifetime occurrence of substance use disorder is almost 50 %.
Social problems, such as long-term बेरोजगारी, गरीबी, और homelessness are common.
The average life expectancy of people with the disorder is 12 to 15 years less than those बगैर, the परिणाम of increased शारीरिक स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं और a उच्चतर आत्महत्या रेट ( about 5 % ).
Paul Leslie Snider ( April 15, 1951–August 14, 1980 ) थी the estranged husband और मैनेजर of प्लेबॉय मॉडल डोरोथी stratten, जिसको he murdered पहले killing himself the same day.
the एपिक of gilgamesh, an एपिक कविता इससे मेसोपोटामिया, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
the साहित्यिक इतिहास of gilgamesh begins साथ पाँच स्वतंत्र sumerian कविताएं about 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ), king of Uruk.
Four of these were प्रयुक्त as सोर्स सामग्री लिये a combined epic in Akkadian.
This first combined epic, known as the `` बूढ़ा babylonian '' संस्करण, तिथियाँ to the 18th सदी bc और is titled बाद इसके incipit, shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have survived.
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th सदियां bc और bears the incipit शा naqba īmuru ( `` he जो Saw the Deep '' ).
Fragments of approximately two thirds of इस longer, twelve-tablet संस्करण have महरूम recovered.
Some of the best copies यहूद खोजा in the पुस्तकालयों तबाह of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal.
The story centers on a friendship between gilgamesh और enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man निर्मित by the देवताओं as gilgamesh 's बराबर to distract him from oppressing the people of Uruk.
Together, they यात्रा to the देवदार पहाड़ to शिकस्त Humbaba, its monstrous guardian.
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven, which the देवी इश्तार भेजना to सजा gilgamesh लिये spurning उसके अग्रिम.
As a punishment लिये ये क्रियाएँ, the देवताओं वाक्य Enkidu to death.
The second half of the epic focuses on gilgamesh 's तकलीफ at enkidu 's मौत, और his quest for immortality.
in अनुक्रम to सीख the रहस्य of eternal life, Gilgamesh undertakes a long and perilous journey.
He learns that `` The life that you हैं seeking तुम होगा never ढूँढें.
When the gods created man they allotted to him मौत, लकिन जीवन वे retained in उनके अपना keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to siduri in the बूढ़ा babylonian version of the epic, and then attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic.
Nevertheless, gilgamesh 's कीर्ति जिया on बाद उसके मौत, क्युकी of उसके ग्रेट भवन प्रोजेक्ट, and his account of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood.
The story has been translated into many different भाषाएं, और gilgamesh रै since become adapted in works of popular fiction.
A eukaryote ( or ) is an organism जिनकी कोशिकाएं contain जटिल structures enclosed within membranes.
eukaryotes may अधिक formally be referred to as the taxon Eukarya or Eukaryota.
The defining membrane-bound structure that sets eukaryotic cells apart इससे prokaryotic कोशिकाएं is the केंद्रक, or नाभिकीय लिफाफा, भीतर जिससे the genetic material is carried.
The presence of a nucleus gives eukaryotes their name, which comes from the यूनानी ( eu, `` शुभ '' ) और ( karyon, `` नट '' or `` कर्नेल '' ).
Most eukaryotic कोशिकाएं भी contain अन्य membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria, chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus.
All large complex organisms हैं eukaryotes, सहित पशु, पौधे and fungi.
The group भी शामिल अनेक unicellular organisms.
कोशिका प्रभाग in eukaryotes is different from that in organisms without a nucleus ( Prokaryote ).
It involves separating the duplicated chromosomes, through आंदोलनों निर्देशित by microtubules.
वहीँ हैं दो प्रकार of division processes.
In mitosis, one कोशिका divides to उपज दो genetically identical cells.
In meiosis, which is required in sexual जनन, एक द्विगुणित कोशिका ( having दो उदाहरण of प्रत्येक chromosome, एक इससे प्रत्येक जनक ) undergoes recombination of प्रत्येक जोड़ी of parental गुणसूत्रों, और तब two stages of cell division, resulting in four haploid cells ( gametes ).
Each gamete has just one complement of गुणसूत्रों, प्रत्येक a अद्वितीय मिक्सर of the सम्बन्धित pair of parental chromosomes.
eukaryota appears to be monophyletic, and so makes up one of the three domains of life.
The two other domains, Bacteria and Archaea, are prokaryotes और have none of the above features.
Eukaryotes represent a tiny minority of all living things ; even in a इंसान देह वहीँ हैं 10 टाइम्स अधिक microbes than human cells.
However, due to their much larger size their collective worldwide बायोमास is अनुमानित at परिचय बराबर to कि of prokaryotes.
They are माना to have पहला विकसित लगभग 1.6–2.1 billion years ago.
The use of Internet services or software with Internet access to defraud पीड़ितों or to वरना लो लाभ of उन्हें, लिये उदाहरण by चोरी निजी सूचना, which can even lead to identity theft.
a बहुत आम रूप of अंतरजाल fraud is the distribution of rogue security software.
Internet services can be used to present fraudulent solicitations to prospective victims, to conduct fraudulent transactions, or to transmit the proceeds of धोखाधड़ी to वित्तीय संस्थानों or to अन्य कनेक्ट साथ the scheme.
Internet fraud can occur in chat कक्ष, ईमेल, संदेश फलक, or on वेबसाइटों.
The International सुरक्षा सहायता फ़ोर्स ( isaf ) is a नाटो -led सुरक्षा मिशन in अफगानिस्तान कि थी स्थापित by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा Council in December 2001 by Resolution 1386, as envisaged by the Bonn Agreement.
Its main purpose is to ट्रैन the अफगान नेशनल सुरक्षा शक्तियां ( ansf ) और assist अफगानिस्तान in पुनर्निर्माण कुंजी सरकारी institutions but is also engaged in the 2001-present war with insurgent groups.
ISAF was initially charged with securing काबुल और surrounding क्षेत्रों इससे the तालिबान, al qaeda और factional warlords, so as to allow लिये the स्थापना of the Afghan Transitional Administration headed by Hamid Karzai.
In October 2003, the UN Security Council प्राधिकृत the विस्तार of the isaf मिशन throughout अफगानिस्तान, और isaf subsequently विस्तारित the mission in four main stages over the whole of the country.
From 2006 to 2011, ISAF had been involved in increasingly अधिक intensive कॉम्बैट परिचालन in दक्षिणी और पूर्वी अफगानिस्तान.
troop योगदानकर्ता शामिल इससे the संयुक्त राज्य, संयुक्त किंगडम, NATO member states and a number of other countries.
The intensity of the कॉम्बैट faced by contributing राष्ट्र varies greatly, साथ the संयुक्त States, United Kingdom, and Canada sustaining the majority of casualties in intensive combat operations, with other contributors sustaining significantly less.
As of जल्दी 2010, वहीँ यहूद at तनिक 700 सैन्य bases inside Afghanistan but more were expected to be built in the coming years.
About 400 of ये यहूद प्रयुक्त by american‐led NATO forces and 300 by ANSF.
Cocaine ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( INN ) is a crystalline tropane एल्कलॉएड कि is प्राप्त इससे the पत्ते of the कोका संयंत्र.
The नाम आता इससे `` कोका '' and the alkaloid suffix -ine, forming cocaine.
It is a stimulant, an appetite suppressant, और a topical anesthetic.
Biologically, cocaine acts as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor, भी ज्ञात as a ट्रिपल reuptake inhibitor ( TRI ).
It is addictive क्युकी of इसके प्रभाव on the mesolimbic reward pathway.
Unlike most molecules, cocaine has pockets with दोनो ऊँची hydrophilic और lipophilic दक्षता, violating the नियम of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance.
This causes it to cross the blood–brain अवरोध दूर बेहतर than अन्य psychoactive रसायन और may भी induce blood-brain barrier breakdown.
It is illegal to possess, produce, or वितरित कोका लिये non-medicinal और non-government-sanctioned उद्देश्य in लगभग प्रत्येक country.
Whole beef tri-tip rump, roasted मीडियम rare
The tri-tip is a cut of beef इससे the नीचे sirloin primal काटें.
It is a small triangular मांसपेशी, प्रायः 1.5 to 2.5 पाउंड. ( 675 to 1,150g ) per side of beef.
The scientific name of this muscle is tensor fasciae latae, inserted in the fascia lata, the संयोजी ऊतक covering the quadriceps femoris, भी पुकारा quadriceps extensor, a group of four muscles which in turn insert in the patella, or knee cap of the animal.
Willmar is a city in, and the काउंटी seat of, Kandiyohi County, Minnesota, United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 19,610 at the 2010 census.
Willmar has been assigned ZIP code 56201 by the संयुक्त राज्य डाक Service.
U.S. Routes 12 and 71 and Minnesota State राजमार्गों 23 और 40 हैं चार of the प्रमुख रूट in the city.
The Speaker of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि ( or स्पीकर of the हाउस ) is the presiding officer of the chamber.
The office was established in 1789 by Article I, Section 2 of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, जिससे राज्य in भाग, `` the हाउस of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker... ''
The current स्पीकर is जॉन boehner, a रिपब्लिकन जो represents Ohio 's 8th congressional district.
The Constitution does not require that the स्पीकर be a सदस्य of कॉंग्रेस, लकिन no non-member रै कभी महरूम निर्वाचित to the office.
The Speaker is second in the United States presidential line of succession, बाद the वाइस अध्यक्ष और ahead of the अध्यक्ष pro tempore of the U.S. Senate.
Unlike some Westminster system parliaments, in which the office of Speaker is considered non-partisan, in the United राज्य the स्पीकर of the हाउस is a नेतृत्व स्थिति और the office-holder actively works to नियत the बहुमत पार्टी 's विधान agenda.
The Speaker usually करता नहीं personally preside over debates, बजाय delegating the duty to members of the House from the majority party.
Aside from duties relating to heading the House and the बहुमत राजनैतिक पार्टी, the स्पीकर भी performs प्रशासनिक और प्रक्रियात्मक functions, and represents his or her Congressional district.
A सायकिल फ़्रेम is the प्रमुख घटक of a bicycle, on to which wheels and other components are fitted.
the आधुनिक और सबसे आम फ़्रेम डिज़ाइन लिये an कतरा सायकिल is आधारित on the safety bicycle, and consists of two triangles, a main triangle and a paired rear triangle.
This is ज्ञात as the diamond frame.
Frames are required to be strong, stiff और लाइट, जिससे वे do by combining अलग सामग्री and shapes.
`` Simple gravity pendulum '' model assumes no घर्षण or एयर प्रतिरोध.
An exemplar एनिमेशन of a pendulum showing the velocity and acceleration vectors
A pendulum is a वज़न निलंबित इससे a so कि it can swing freely.
When a लोलक is विस्थापित बगलों इससे इसके resting संतुलन स्थिति, it is विषय to a restoring फ़ोर्स due to gravity that will accelerate it back toward the equilibrium position.
When released, the restoring force combined with the लोलक 's द्रव्यमान कल्याणकारी it to oscillate परिचय the संतुलन स्थिति, सुहाने back and forth.
the समय लिये एक पूरा साईकिल, a left swing and a right swing, is called the period.
A pendulum swings साथ a विशिष्ट काल जिससे depends ( mainly ) on its length.
From its discovery around 1602 by Galileo Galilei the regular motion of pendulums थी प्रयुक्त लिये timekeeping, और थी the संसार 's सबसे सटीक timekeeping प्रौद्योगिकी जबतक the 1930s.
Pendulums are used to regulate pendulum clocks, and are used in scientific यंत्र ऐसे as accelerometers और seismometers.
Historically they were used as gravimeters to माप the त्वरण of गम्भीरता in geophysical surveys, and even as a standard of length.
The word 'pendulum ' is नई लैटिन, इससे the लैटिन pendulus, meaning 'hanging '.
The simple gravity pendulum is an idealized गणितीय मॉडल of a pendulum.
This is a weight ( or bob ) on the end of a massless cord निलंबित इससे a, बगैर घर्षण.
When दिए an आरंभिक धक्का, it होगा swing back and forth at a constant amplitude.
Real pendulums are विषय to घर्षण और एयर खीचें, so the आयाम of their swings declines.
The First बैटल of सांड चलाएं, भी ज्ञात as पहला manassas ( the नाम प्रयुक्त by confederate forces ), was fought on July 21, 1861, in Prince William County, Virginia, near the city of Manassas.
It थी the पहला प्रमुख जमीन बैटल of the American Civil War.
Just months after the start of the war at Fort Sumter, the Northern public clamored for a march against the Confederate capital of रिचमंड, वर्जिनिया, जिससे वे अपेक्षित to लाओ an जल्दी समाप्त to the rebellion.
Yielding to political pressure, Brig. Gen. Irvin McDowell led his unseasoned संघ फौज आरपार सांड चलाएं विरूद्ध the बराबर अनुभवहीन confederate Army of Brig. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard camped near Manassas Junction.
McDowell 's ambitious plan for a surprise flank attack on the Confederate left was poorly executed by his अधिकारियों और मेन ; nevertheless, the confederates, जो था महरूम नियोजन to आक्रमण the संघ बाएँ पार्श्व, मिला themselves at an initial disadvantage.
Confederate सुदृढीकरण अंतर्गत ब्रिगेडियर. gen. जोसेफ E. Johnston arrived from the Shenandoah Valley by railroad and the course of the battle quickly changed.
A brigade of Virginians under a relatively unknown कर्नल इससे the वर्जिनिया सैन्य संस्थान, थामस J. जैक्सन, stood उनके मैदान और जैक्सन प्राप्त उसके प्रसिद्ध उपनाम, `` stonewall जैक्सन ''.
The Confederates then launched a strong counterattack, and as the Union troops began withdrawing अंतर्गत आग, अनेक panicked और it turned into a rout as McDowell 's men frantically ran without order in the direction of Washington, D.C.
Both armies were sobered by the fierce fighting and many हताहत, और एहसास the युद्ध थी going to be much longer और bloodier than either had anticipated.
Thunderstorm near garajau, madeira
Weather is the state of the atmosphere, to the degree that it is hot or ठंडा, गीला or शुष्क, शांत or stormy, clear or cloudy.
सबसे मौसम phenomena occur in the troposphere, just below the stratosphere.
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature and precipitation activity, whereas जलवायु is the पद लिये the औसत वायुमंडलीय शर्तें over longer periods of time.
When used without योग्यता, `` मौसम '' is समझा to be the weather of Earth.
Weather is चलित by एयर दबाव ( तापमान और नमी ) differences between one place and another.
These pressure and तापमान मतभेद can occur due to the सूर्य कोण at कोई particular spot, which varies by latitude from the tropics.
The दमदार तापमान कंट्रास्ट between ध्रुवीय and tropical air gives rise to the jet stream.
मौसम प्रणालियों in the mid-latitudes, ऐसे as extratropical cyclones, are caused by instabilities of the jet stream flow.
क्युकी the धरती 's अक्ष is tilted सापेक्ष to इसके कक्षीय प्लेन, sunlight is incident at different angles at different times of the year.
On Earth 's surface, temperatures usually range ±40 °c ( −40 °f to 100 °f ) annually.
Over thousands of सालो, परिवर्तन in धरती 's कक्षा affect the राशि और वितरण of सौर उर्जा प्राप्त by the Earth and influence long-term climate and global climate change.
Surface temperature मतभेद in फेरे कारण दबाव मतभेद.
Higher altitudes हैं कूलर than निम्नतर altitudes due to differences in compressional heating.
मौसम forecasting is the अनुप्रयोग of विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी to भविष्यवाणी the state of the atmosphere for a future time and a given location.
The atmosphere is a chaotic system, so small changes to one भाग of the प्रणाली can grow to have विशाल प्रभाव on the प्रणाली as a whole.
Human attempts to control the weather have occurred throughout इंसान इतिहास, और वहीँ is प्रमाण कि इंसान कार्यकलाप ऐसे as agriculture and industry has inadvertently modified weather patterns.
Studying how the मौसम works on अन्य ग्रह रै महरूम सहायक in समझना how weather works on Earth.
A famous landmark in the Solar System, Jupiter 's Great Red Spot, is an anticyclonic तूफ़ान ज्ञात to have existed लिये at तनिक 300 years.
However, मौसम is नहीं सीमित to planetary bodies.
A स्टार 's किरीट is constantly होने खोया to स्पेस, creating what is essentially a very thin atmosphere throughout the Solar System.
The गति of द्रव्यमान ejected इससे the सूर्य is ज्ञात as the solar wind.
कैटी पेरी is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter from Santa Barbara, California.
She signed with कैपिटल रिकॉर्ड.
Perry has released three studio albums, including her डेब्यू ईसाई प्रयत्न कैटी Hudson, One of the Boys, and Teenage Dream.
Perry 's mainstream career was kicked बंद साथ the विशाल चार्ट कामयाबी of उसके डेब्यू सिंगल `` i चूमा a लड़की ``.
दौरान उसके करियर, पेरी रै महरूम मनोनीत for numerous major music awards, primarily for Teenage Dream and One of the Boys.
The following is a सूची of sovereign राज्य और territories where English is an official language or language of government.
In 2012, there were 88 राज्य in कुल ( 60 sovereign राज्य and 28 non-sovereign states ).
In many countries English is the प्रबल भाषा, लकिन करता नहीं have official status.
In Australia, अंग्रेज़ी is बोला by the विशाल बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी and is the only language used in government institutions, but Australia does not have an official language.
The case is the same in the United Kingdom and the United States, though many states और regions भीतर the u.S. do have अंग्रेज़ी as an आधिकारिक language.
English is the dominant language of New जीलैंड और an आधिकारिक भाषा of कनाडा ( साथ साथ फ्रेंच ), इण्डिया ( साथ साथ हिंदी और अनेक अन्य भाषाएं ), Ireland ( along with Irish ), and the Philippines ( along with Tagalog ).
अंग्रेज़ी is the एकमात्र आधिकारिक भाषा of the Commonwealth of Nations and the Commonwealth Games.
English is एक of the आधिकारिक भाषाएं of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, the European Union and the International Olympic Committee.
Many of these countries are current or former colonies or dependencies of the संयुक्त किंगडम ( देखिए भी अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य ), or of the संयुक्त राज्य, itself a पूर्व उपनिवेश of the uk.
Notable exceptions include Rwanda, which was a former Belgian उपनिवेश और इरित्रिया, जिससे थी an इतालवी उपनिवेश जहाँ the British Empire spanned its control only in World War II and shortly after ( 1941-1952 ).
इण्डिया 's भाषाई चित्र is complex.
According to the Constitution of India, `` Hindi in the Devanagari script '' is the official language of the union ; and English the 'subsidiary official language ' ; however, English is mandated for the authoritative ग्रन्थ of सब संघीय कानून और परम् अदालत निर्णय और ( साथ साथ हिंदी ) is एक of the दो भाषाएं of the Indian Parliament.
English is used लगभग exclusively लिये उच्चतर शिक्षा, business and science.
Courses in बहुमत of the स्कूलों हैं सिखाया exclusively in English.
अंग्रेज़ी is extensively प्रयुक्त लिये प्रशासनिक purposes in India.
India is the second-largest english-speaking देश in the world by number of speakers, after the United States.
As such, many consider अंग्रेज़ी to be the de facto official language of India.
See आधिकारिक भाषाएं of India.
The linguistic makeup of पाकिस्तानी is similarly complex.
While the national language is उर्दू, अंग्रेज़ी is an आधिकारिक भाषा और प्रयुक्त in कारोबार, government and law.
English is a अनिवार्य भाषा in schools.
सब स्कूल पाठ्यक्रम are taught in English.
Pakistan is the 9th largest english-speaking country in the world by population.
Southern Cone (, ) is a geographic region रचित of the southernmost क्षेत्रों of दक्षिण अमेरिका, दक्षिण of the Tropic of Capricorn.
Although geographically this includes Southern and part of Southeast ( São Paulo ) of ब्राज़ील, in शर्तें of राजनैतिक भूगोल the दक्षिणी कोन रै traditionally comprised अर्जेंटीना, चिली, पैराग्वे, और उरुग्वे.
In the narrowest sense, it only covers Argentina, चिली और उरुग्वे, bounded on the उत्तर by the राज्य of ब्राज़ील, पैराग्वे, बोलीविया और पेरू, on the वेस्ट by the प्रशांत समंदर, and south to the junction between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, which it is the closest continental area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ).
High life expectancy, the highest Human Development अनुक्रमणिका of लैटिन अमेरिका, ऊँची मानक of जीना, significant भागीदारी in the वैश्विक बाज़ार और the उभरते economy of its members make the Southern Cone the most prosperous macro-region in South America.
For multi-event एथलेटिक प्रतियोगिताओं देखिए track और फ़ील्ड प्रतियोगिताओं, section `` Meetings ''.
Meetings हैं sometimes held around conference tables.
In a meeting, two or more लोगों आइये साथ to discuss एक or अधिक topics, often in a formal setting.
An official game in baseball, also sometimes called a विनियमन खेल, is a खेल कि रै progressed परे the पाइंट at जिससे it can be माना पूरा if necessary.
This is लगभग the halfway पाइंट of the game.
In the case of inclement weather, कोई खेल जिससे रै पहुँचे इस पाइंट may be रोका और shortened as needed, साथ the परिणाम होने final, and all records and statistics counted.
A game which has नहीं पहुँचे इस पाइंट पहले होने रोका is either माना a निलंबित खेल ( to be जारी at a बाद date from the point of stoppage ), or is simply canceled and replayed from the start.
( This depends on the नियम of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत league. )
In either case, no आंकडे हैं गिने जबतक the खेल becomes official.
Since most professional baseball games are nine innings long, the fifth inning is प्रयुक्त as the दहलीज लिये an official game.
If the visiting team is अग्रणी, or the खेल is tied, the end of the fifth inning marks this point.
If the home team ( which bats last ) is already ahead in the score, and theoretically would not need its half of the fifth inning, then 41⁄2 पारी ( i.e., the मध्य of the पांचवां ) is माना an official game.
The game is भी माना आधिकारिक if the घर टोली स्कोर to लो the सीसे in the नीचे of the पांचवां inning, चूंकि the game would end immediately if the same thing happened in the ninth.
In nearly all cases, the `` official game '' औकात is प्रयुक्त to determine whether a बरसात जाँच होगा be सम्मानित for fans holding tickets.
If a game is started but करता नहीं पहुँचें the पाइंट of बनने आधिकारिक, प्रशंसक हैं हकदार to a नई टिकट लिये the make-up game or ( in most cases ) any other available game of their choice.
If a खेल is halted बाद it becomes आधिकारिक, the खेल is बस shortened and no rain check is given.
The `` official game '' statistic प्राप्त कुछ ध्यान दौरान the 1995 ऋतु, जब कैलोरी ripken, Jr. was approaching the record for consecutive games played, previously held by Lou Gehrig.
Large numbers were hung on the side of the b & o गोदाम at oriole पार्क at camden गज to दिखाएँ the क्रमांक of games in Ripken 's streak.
Each day, a new क्रमांक थी unfurled दौरान the पांचवां inning बाद प्रत्येक खेल था become official ( since the statistic would not have counted if the game had been stopped before that point ).
A similar अभ्यास रै महरूम प्रयुक्त to गिनती bas toward the demolition of अनेक स्टेडियम ( सहित दिग्गजों स्टेडियम in फिलाडेल्फिया in 2003, Busch Memorial Stadium in St. Louis in 2005, and the original Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium in New York City in 2008 ) ; as each game became official, the team would unveil a new ( lower ) number showing the number of games left to be played in the stadium.
a टेलीफोन क्रमांक or फोन क्रमांक is a अनुक्रम of अंक प्रयुक्त to कॉल इससे one telephone line to another in a public switched telephone network.
When telephone numbers were invented, they were short — as few as एक, दो or तीन अंक — और यहूद दिए orally to a switchboard operator.
As phone systems have grown और interconnected to encompass the संसार, टेलीफोन संख्याएँ have become longer.
In addition to telephones, they now access other devices, such as कंप्यूटर और फैक्स मशीने.
The क्रमांक contains the सूचना जरुरी to पहचानो uniquely the intended endpoint for the telephone call.
Each such endpoint must have a अद्वितीय क्रमांक भीतर the पब्लिक switched टेलीफोन network.
Most countries use fixed length numbers ( for normal lines at least ) and इसलिए the क्रमांक of endpoints determines the जरुरी लंबाई of the telephone number.
It is also possible for each subscriber to have a set of shorter संख्याएँ लिये the endpoints most often used.
ये `` आशुलिपि '' or `` गति कॉलिंग '' संख्याएँ are automatically translated to unique telephone numbers before the call can be connected.
Some special services have their own short numbers ( e.g., 1-1-9, 9-1-1, 0-0-0, 9-9-9, 1-1-1, and 1-1-2 being the Emergency Services numbers for China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and श्री लंका ; कनाडा और the संयुक्त राज्य ; ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; the संयुक्त किंगडम, आयरलैंड, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, कैंडल, सऊदी अरब, the संयुक्त अरब अमीरात, मोरक्को, मकाओ, बहरीन, क़तर, बांग्लादेश, बोत्सवाना, घाना, Kenya, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Mauritius, Singapore, Zimbabwe, Trinidad, Tobago ; New Zealand ; Kuwait and the European Union, respectively. )
Many systems also allow calls within a लोकल क्षेत्रफल to be बना बगैर डायलिंग the लोकल area code.
For example, a phone number in North America will start with तीन संख्याएँ ( ऐसे as 661 ), जिससे is the क्षेत्रफल कोड, followed by सात अंक विभाजित into sections of three and four ( such as 550-1212 ), which is the local number.
Some areas now have mandatory ten-digit डायलिंग in प्लेस, भी लिये लोकल काल्स.
Most telephone networks आज ( अपवाद होने निजी intercom और सुरक्षित फोन संजाल ) हैं interconnected in the international telephone network, where the format of telephone numbers is standardized by ITU-T in the recommendation E.164.
This specifies कि the संपूर्ण क्रमांक चाहिए be 15 अंक or shorter, and begin with a country prefix.
For most countries, this is followed by an area code or नगर कोड और the सदस्य क्रमांक, जिससे might consist of the कोड लिये a particular telephone exchange.
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes how to represent an अंतरराष्ट्रीय टेलीफोन क्रमांक in लिखने or छपाई, starting with a plus sign ( `` + '' ) and the country code.
जब कॉलिंग an अंतरराष्ट्रीय क्रमांक इससे a फिक्स्ड लकीर फोन, the + जरूर be replaced साथ the international call prefix chosen by the country the call is being made from.
Some मोबाईल फोन allow the + to be entered directly.
The format and allocation of local phone numbers are controlled by each nation 's संबंधित सरकारी, either सीधे or by प्रायोजित संगठन ( ऐसे as nanpa overseen by NeuStar Inc. ).
Before a telephone call is कनेक्ट, the टेलीफोन क्रमांक जरूर be dialed by the calling party or Caller.
The called party might have equipment that presents कॉलर id पहले the कॉल is answered.
A संग्रहण एजेंसी is a कारोबार कि pursues भुगतान of debts owed by individuals or businesses.
Most collection agencies operate as एजेंटों of लेनदारों और collect debts लिये a शुल्क or percentage of the total amount owed.
There हैं अनेक प्रकार of संग्रहण agencies.
First-party agencies are oftentimes subsidiaries of the असली कम्पनी the debt is owed to.
Third-party agencies are separate companies contracted by a कम्पनी to collect debts on उनके निमित्त for a fee.
Debt buyers purchase the debt at a प्रतिशत of इसके मान, तब attempt to collect it.
Each country has its own नियम और regulations regarding them.
कैनबिस पुष्प साथ दृश्य trichomes
Cannabis, also known as मारिजुआना ( इससे the मैक्सिकन स्पेनी marihuana ), और by अन्य names, is a तैयारी of the कैनबिस plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug and as medicine.
Pharmacologically, the principal psychoactive constituent of कैनबिस is tetrahydrocannabinol ( thc ) ; it is एक of 483 ज्ञात यौगिकों in the संयंत्र, सहित at तनिक 84 other cannabinoids, such as cannabidiol ( CBD ), cannabinol ( CBN ), tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ).
and cannabigerol ( cbg ).
This is a list of American football quarterbacks who have started for the Washington Redskins, as well as its पूर्ववर्तियों the बोस्टन braves ( 1932 ) और बोस्टन redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ), in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
The Washington Redskins franchise was originally संस्थापित in बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स as the बोस्टन braves, नामित after the local baseball franchise.
The name was changed the following साल to the redskins.
In 1937, the franchise moved to वॉशिंगटन, d.c.
Of the 49 redskins starting quarterbacks, दो have महरूम inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame : Sammy Baugh and Sonny Jurgensen.
Robert griffin iii 2012-present
जेसन कैम्पबेल 2005-2009
Mark burnell 2004-2007
Mark rypien 1986-1993
Joe theismann 1974-1985
सैमी baugh 1937-1952
1st Special Forces operational detachment-delta ( 1st sfod-d ), popularly ज्ञात as डेल्टा फ़ोर्स, is एक of the संयुक्त राज्य ' four secretive tier-one counter-terrorism and Special Mission Units.
It was formerly सूचीबद्ध as the कॉम्बैट अनुप्रयोग समूह by the विभाग of Defense but has since been officially re-designated the Army Compartmented Elements ( ACE ).
While 1st SFOD-D is administratively समर्थित by usasoc, it falls under the operational control of the Joint Special Operations Command.
Delta Force and its नेवी बंटवारा, the नवल खास warfare विकास समूह, हैं the United States military 's primary counter-terrorism units.
Delta Force 's primary tasks are counter-terrorism, direct action, and नेशनल हस्तक्षेप परिचालन, हालांकि it is an अत्यधिक बहुमुखी समूह capable of conducting many types of covert missions, including, but not limited to, hostage rescues and raids.
The सेंट्रल प्रज्ञा एजेंसी 's अत्यधिक गुपचुप खास क्रियाएँ प्रभाग ( उदास ) और अधिक specifically इसके elite खास Operations Group ( SOG ) often works with – and recruits – operators from Delta Force.
Alpha decay is one example type of radioactive decay, in जिससे an परमाणु केंद्रक emits an अल्फा कण, और thereby परिणत ( or 'क्षयs ' ) into an atom with a mass number 4 less and atomic number 2 less.
अनेक अन्य प्रकार of decays are possible.
रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय, भी ज्ञात as नाभिकीय क्षय or radioactivity, is the process by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses energy by emitting particles of ionizing radiation.
A material that spontaneously emits this kind of radiation — which शामिल the उत्सर्जन of ऊर्जावान अल्फा अणु, बीटा अणु, and gamma rays — is considered radioactive.
वहीँ हैं अनेक अलग प्रकार of रेडियोसक्रिय decay ( see table below ).
A decay, or loss of energy, results when an atom with one type of nucleus, called the parent radionuclide, transforms to an atom साथ a केंद्रक in a अलग राज्य, or to a अलग केंद्रक containing अलग संख्याएँ of protons and neutrons.
Either of ये उत्पाद is नामित the daughter nuclide.
In some decays the parent and daughter are different chemical elements, and thus the क्षय प्रक्रम परिणाम in नाभिकीय transmutation ( सृष्टि of an atom of a new element ).
The first decay प्रक्रियाओं to be खोजा यहूद अल्फा क्षय, बीटा decay, and gamma decay.
Alpha decay occurs when the केंद्रक ejects an अल्फा कण ( हीलियम केंद्रक ).
This is the most आम प्रक्रम of emitting nucleons, लकिन in rarer प्रकार of decays, nuclei can eject protons, or specific nuclei of other elements ( in the process called cluster decay ).
बीटा क्षय occurs जब the केंद्रक emits an इलेक्ट्रॉन or positron और a प्रकार of न्यूट्रिनो, in a process that changes a proton to a neutron or the other way around.
the केंद्रक may कैप्चर an orbiting electron, converting a proton into a neutron ( electron capture ).
All of ये प्रक्रियाओं परिणाम in nuclear transmutation.
By contrast, there exist radioactive क्षय प्रक्रियाओं कि do नहीं परिणाम in transmutation.
The energy of an excited nucleus may be उत्सर्जित as a गामा रे in गामा क्षय, or प्रयुक्त to eject an orbital electron by interaction with the excited nucleus in a process called internal conversion.
radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons, और इस परिणाम in a change in an element from one isotope to another.
One type of radioactive decay results in products which are नहीं पारिभाषित, लकिन appear in a दायरा of `` pieces '' of the original nucleus.
This decay is पुकारा spontaneous fission.
This decay happens when a large unstable nucleus spontaneously splits into two ( और occasionally तीन ) छोटी बेटी nuclei, और प्रायः emits गामा किरणें, neutrons, or अन्य अणु as a consequence.
Radioactive decay is a stochastic ( i.e., random ) process at the स्तर of सिंगल अणु, in कि, according to क्वांटम सिद्धान्त, it is नामुमकिन to भविष्यवाणी जब a particular atom will decay.
However, the मौका कि a दिए अणु होगा क्षय is constant over time.
For a large number of atoms, the decay rate for the collection is computable इससे the measured क्षय स्थिरांक of the न्यूक्लाइड ( or equivalently इससे the half-lifes ).
Waxing is a form of semi-permanent hair removal which removes the hair from the root.
New hair will not grow back in the previously waxed area लिये दो to आठ सप्ताह, हालांकि कुछ लोगों होगा प्रारंभ to देखिए regrowth in तभी a सप्ताह.
Almost any area of the देह can be waxed, सहित eyebrows, फेस, बिकिनी क्षेत्रफल, legs, arms, back, abdomen and feet.
There हैं अनेक प्रकार of वैक्सिंग उपयुक्त लिये removing unwanted hair.
Strip waxing is संपन्नता by spreading a मोम thinly over the skin.
A cloth or paper strip is तब दबाया on the शीर्ष and ripped off the direction of hair growth.
This removes the मोम साथ with the hair.
Strip wax can also be बना at घर using नीबू रस, water, sugar and honey.
Hot waxing utilizes Hot मोम ( as opposed to स्ट्रिप wax ).
In this case, the मोम is लागू somewhat thickly and with no cloth or paper strips.
The wax then hardens when it cools, thus allowing the आसान हटाना by a चिकित्सक बगैर the सहायता of cloths.
This waxing method is बहुत फायदेमंद to लोगों जो have संवेदनशील skin.
Wall पेंटिंग ( 1st सदी ad ) इससे Pompeii depicting a multigenerational banquet
Ancient Roman culture existed throughout the लगभग 1200-year इतिहास of the civilization of Ancient Rome.
The term refers to the culture of the Roman Republic, बाद the रोमन साम्राज्य, जिससे, at इसके शिखर, covered an क्षेत्रफल इससे lowland स्कॉटलैंड and Morocco to the Euphrates.
Life in ancient Rome revolved around the नगर of रोम, इसके famed सात पहाड़ियाँ, और इसके स्मारकीय structures ऐसे as the Flavian Amphitheatre ( now called the Colosseum ), the Forum of Trajan, and the Pantheon.
The city also had several theaters, gymnasiums, and many taverns, baths, और brothels.
Throughout the territory under प्राचीन रोम 's कंट्रोल, आवासीय वास्तुकला ranged इससे बहुत modest घरों to country villas, and in the capital city of Rome, there were imperial residences on the elegant Palatine Hill, from which the word palace is derived.
The vast majority of the population lived in the city center, packed into insulae ( अपार्टमेंट ब्लॉक ).
The city of Rome was the largest megalopolis of that time, साथ a जनसांख्यिकी कि may खूब have exceeded एक लाख लोगों, with a high end estimate of 3.6 million and a low end estimate of 450,000.
Historical estimates indicate that around 30 percent of the population under the city 's jurisdiction lived in innumerable शहरी centers, साथ जनसांख्यिकी of at तनिक 10,000 और अनेक सैन्य settlements, a बहुत ऊँची रेट of शहरी by pre-industrial standards.
The most urbanized part of the Empire was Italy, which had an estimated rate of शहरी of 32 %, the वही रेट of शहरी of England in 1800.
Most Roman towns and शहरों था a फ़ोरम, मंदिरों और the वही प्रकार of buildings, on a smaller scale, as found in Rome.
The large urban population required an endless supply of food which was a complex logistical task, including acquiring, transporting, storing और वितरण of खाना लिये रोम और अन्य शहरी centers.
Italian farms supplied vegetables and fruits, लकिन मछली और मांस यहूद luxuries.
Aqueducts were built to bring water to urban centers and wine and oil were imported from hispania, gaul और अफ़्रीकी.
There was a very large amount of commerce between the प्रांतों of the रोमन साम्राज्य, चूंकि इसके परिवहन प्रौद्योगिकी was very efficient.
The average costs of हस्तांतरण और the प्रौद्योगिकी यहूद comparable साथ 18th-century Europe.
The later city of Rome did not fill the space within its प्राचीन aurelian दीवारें जबतक बाद 1870.
अस्सी प्रतिशत of the जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत the क्षेत्राधिकार of प्राचीन Rome lived in the countryside in settlements with less than 10 thousand inhabitants.
Landlords generally resided in शहरों and their estates were left in the care of farm managers.
The plight of rural slaves was generally बदतर than उनके counterparts working in शहरी aristocratic households.
To stimulate a higher labor उत्पादकता सबसे जमींदार freed a विशाल क्रमांक of स्लेव और अनेक प्राप्त wages.
कुछ रिकॉर्ड indicate कि `` as अनेक as 42 people lived in one small farm hut in Egypt, while six families owned a single olive tree. ''.
Such a rural environment continued to induce migration of population to urban centers जबतक the जल्दी 2nd सदी, जब the शहरी जनसांख्यिकी रोका growing और प्रारंभ to decline.
Starting in the मध्य of the 2nd सदी bc, निजी यूनानी संस्कृति थी increasingly in ascendancy, in spite of tirades against the `` softening '' effects of Hellenized culture from the conservative moralists.
By the time of augustus, संस्कारी यूनानी household स्लेव सिखाया the रोमन यंग ( sometimes भी the लड़कियों ) ; chefs, decorators, secretaries, doctors, and hairdressers—all came from the Greek East.
Greek sculptures adorned hellenistic लैंडस्केप बागवानी on the palatine or in the विला, or यहूद imitated in Roman sculpture yards by Greek slaves.
The Roman cuisine preserved in the cookery किताबे ascribed to Apicius is essentially Greek.
Roman writers disdained लैटिन लिये a संस्कारी Greek style.
Only in law और शासन थी the तिरछा प्रकृति of Rome 's accretive culture supreme.
Against this human पृष्ठभूमि, दोनो the शहरी और ग्रामीण सेटिंग, एक of history 's most influential civilizations took shape, leaving behind a cultural legacy that survives in part today.
James Joseph `` डफी '' waldorf, jr. ( born अगस्त 20, 1962 ) is an अमरीकी professional golfer.
Glass बोतलों ( लिये खीरा slices ) on shipping pallets
A सोवियत मेयोनेज़ jar
A modern `` फ्रेंच kilner '' jar
Glass production involves two main methods – the float glass process, which produces चादर कांच, और glassblowing जिससे produces बोतलों and other containers.
A season is a subdivision of the साल, चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in मौसम, ecology, and hours of daylight.
Seasons result from the वार्षिक क्रान्ति of the धरती around the सूर्य और the झुकाव of the धरती 's axis relative to the plane of revolution.
In शीतोष्ण और ध्रुवीय regions, the सीज़न हैं चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in the तीव्रता of धूप कि पहुँच the Earth 's surface, variations of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
दौरान may, जून और जुलाई, the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is exposed to more direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun.
The same is true of the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध in नवम्बर, December and January.
It is the tilt of the धरती कि कल्याणकारी the सूर्य to be उच्चतर in the आसमान during the summer months which increases the solar flux.
However, due to seasonal lag, June, July and अगस्त हैं the hottest महीने in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और दिसम्बर, जनवरी and February are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere.
In temperate and subpolar regions, generally चार पंचांग -आधारd सीज़न ( साथ उनके adjectives ) हैं पहचाना : वसन्त ( vernal ), गर्मियाँ ( estival ), पतझड़ ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly use a छह ऋतु मॉडल लिये शीतोष्ण जलवायु regions कि शामिल pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four.
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet, or मानसून ) ऋतु और the शुष्क ऋतु, और in कुछ tropical areas, a cool or mild season.
In some parts of the world, special `` seasons '' are loosely defined आधारित on महत्वपूर्ण कार्यक्रम ऐसे as a hurricane season, tornado season or a wildfire season.
The six ecological सीज़न
The four calendar seasons, चित्रित in an प्राचीन रोमन mosaic from Tunisia
The Battle of फोर्ट sumter ( अप्रैल 12–14, 1861 ) थी the बमबारी और आत्मसमर्पण of फोर्ट sumter, near Charleston, South Carolina, that started the American Civil War.
Following declarations of secession by seven दक्षिणी राज्य, दक्षिण कैरोलिना मांगे कि the u.S. फौज लापरवाही इसके सुविधाएं in चार्ल्सटन Harbor.
On December 26, 1860, U.S. प्रमुख रॉबर्ट एंडरसन surreptitiously स्थानांतरित उसके छोटी कमांड इससे the indefensible फोर्ट moultrie on सुलीवान 's द्वीप to Fort Sumter, a substantial fortress controlling the entrance of Charleston Harbor.
An attempt by U.S. President James Buchanan to reinforce and resupply Anderson, using the unarmed merchant ship स्टार of the वेस्ट, विफल जब it थी fired upon by shore बैटरी on January 9, 1861.
South Carolina authorities then seized all Federal प्रॉपर्टी in the चार्ल्सटन क्षेत्रफल, मगर लिये Fort Sumter.
दौरान the जल्दी महीने of 1861, the हालात around फोर्ट sumter increasingly began to resemble a siege.
In March, Brig. Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard, the पहला सामान्य अधिकारी of the newly formed confederate राज्य of अमेरिका, थी लगाई in कमांड of Confederate forces in Charleston.
Beauregard energetically निर्देशित the strengthening of बैटरी around Charleston harbor aimed at Fort Sumter.
Conditions in the फोर्ट grew dire as the संघ सैनिको rushed to पूरा the installation of additional guns.
Anderson was short of मेन, खाना, और supplies.
The resupply of फोर्ट sumter became the पहला संकट of the administration of President Abraham Lincoln.
He notified the Governor of दक्षिण कैरोलिना, फ्रांसिस W. pickens, कि he थी sending सप्लाई जहाजों, जिससे resulted in an ultimatum इससे the Confederate government : evacuate Fort Sumter immediately.
Major Anderson refused to आत्मसमर्पण.
Beginning at 4:30 a.m. on अप्रैल 12, the confederates bombarded the फोर्ट from artillery batteries surrounding the harbor.
Although the Union garrison returned fire, they were significantly outgunned and, बाद 34 घंटों, प्रमुख एंडरसन सहमत to evacuate.
There was no loss of life on either side as a direct result of this engagement, हालांकि a गन विस्फोट दौरान the आत्मसमर्पण ceremonies on अप्रैल 14 caused two Union deaths.
Following the battle, there was widespread support इससे दोनो उत्तर और दक्षिण लिये further सैन्य कार्रवाई.
Lincoln 's immediate call for 75,000 स्वयंसेवक to दबाने the विद्रोह resulted in an अतिरिक्त four southern slave states also declaring their secession and joining the Confederacy.
the सिविल युद्ध had begun.
3G, short for third Generation, is the तीसरा पीढी of मोबाईल दूरसंचार technology.
3G telecommunication networks support services that provide an सूचना ट्रांसफ़र रेट of at तनिक 200 kbit/s.
However, many services advertised as 3G provide higher speed than the न्यूनतम तकनीकी आवश्यकताएँ लिये a 3g service.
Recent 3G releases, often denoted 3.5g और 3.75g, भी provide मोबाईल ब्रॉडबैंड अभिगम of अनेक mbit/s to स्मार्टफ़ोन और मोबाईल modems in laptop computers.
3G finds application in wireless आवाज़ telephony, मोबाईल अंतरजाल अभिगम, फिक्स्ड बेतार अंतरजाल access, video calls and mobile TV.
`` Mazel Tov ! '' लिखा on a wine glass tag
Traditionally, after the groom breaks the कांच, the अतिथि चिल्लाओ `` mazel tov ! ``.
A birthday cake, iced साथ the शब्द `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ), as is प्रायः किया in इसराईल.
Here the phrase is लिखा in यहूदी cursive.
`` mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( यहूदी / यहूदी : `` מזל טוב '', Hebrew : `` mazal tov '' ; Yiddish : `` mazel tov '' ; lit.
`` शुभ लक '' ) is a phrase प्रयुक्त to एक्स्प्रेस बधाई लिये a प्रसन्न and significant occasion or event.
Hepatitis C is an infectious बीमारी affecting primarily the जिगर, caused by the hepatitis C virus ( HCV ).
The infection is often asymptomatic, but chronic infection can lead to scarring of the जिगर और ultimately to cirrhosis, जिससे is generally apparent बाद अनेक years.
In some cases, those with cirrhosis will go on to develop liver failure, जिगर कर्कट or life-threatening esophageal और gastric varices.
HCV is spread primarily by blood-to-blood सम्पर्क संबद्ध साथ intravenous ड्रग use, poorly sterilized medical equipment and transfusions.
An अनुमानित 130–200 लाख लोगों worldwide are infected with.
The existence of ( originally `` non- a non- b hepatitis '' ) थी postulated in the 1970s and proven in 1989.
only infects इंसानो और chimpanzees.
The virus persists in the जिगर in परिचय 85 % of those infected.
This persistent infection can be treated with medication : the मानक चिकित्सा is a संयोजन of peginterferon और ribavirin, साथ either boceprevir or telaprevir added in some cases.
Overall, 50–80 % of लोगों treated are cured.
Those who develop cirrhosis or liver कर्कट may आवश्यकता a जिगर प्रत्यारोपण.
is the अग्रणी कारण of जिगर प्रत्यारोपण, हालांकि the वायरस प्रायः recurs after transplantation.
No vaccine विरूद्ध is available.
A flexible spending account ( FSA ), also known as a flexible spending arrangement, is एक of a क्रमांक of tax-advantaged वित्तीय खाते कि can be नियत up through a कैफेटेरिया योजना of an नियोक्ता in the United States.
An FSA allows an कर्मचारी to नियत aside a portion of आय to अदा लिये योग्य expenses as established in the cafeteria plan, most commonly for medical expenses but often for dependent care or other expenses.
Money deducted इससे an कर्मचारी 's अदा into an fsa is नहीं विषय to payroll taxes, resulting in substantial payroll tax savings.
एक significant disadvantage to using an fsa is कि funds not used by the end of the plan year are lost to the employee, known as the `` use it or lose it '' rule.
The most common type of flexible spending account, the medical expense FSA ( also medical FSA or स्वास्थ्य fsa ), is समान to a स्वास्थ्य बचत खाता ( hsa ) or a स्वास्थ्य reimbursement खाता ( hra ).
However, while HSAs and HRAs हैं लगभग exclusively प्रयुक्त as components of a उपभोक्ता चलित स्वास्थ्य परवाह योजना, चिकित्सा fsas हैं commonly offered साथ more traditional health plans as well.
In जोड, निधि in a स्वास्थ्य बचत खाता हैं नहीं lost when the plan year is over, unlike funds in an FSA.
Paper फ़ॉर्म or an fsa डेबिट कार्ड, भी ज्ञात as a flexcard, may be used to access the account funds.
Tennessee ( ) ( ) is a u.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the southeastern United States.
Tennessee is the 36th सबसे extensive और the 17th most populous of the 50 United States.
Tennessee is bordered by Kentucky and Virginia to the उत्तर, उत्तर कैरोलिना to the ईस्ट, जॉर्जिया, अलबामा, और मिसिसिपी to the south, and Arkansas and Missouri to the west.
The Appalachian Mountains dominate the eastern भाग of the राज्य, और the मिसिसिपी नदी फ़ॉर्म the राज्य 's western border.
Tennessee 's पूंजी और दूसरी largest नगर is नैशविले, which has a population of 609,644.
Memphis is the राज्य 's largest नगर, साथ a population of 652,050.
The state of Tennessee is rooted in the Watauga Association, a 1772 frontier pact generally regarded as the पहला संवैधानिक सरकारी वेस्ट of the appalachians.
What is now Tennessee was initially भाग of उत्तर कैरोलिना, और बाद भाग of the Southwest Territory.
टेनेसी थी admitted to the Union as the 16th state on June 1, 1796.
Tennessee was the last state to leave the Union and join the Confederacy at the outbreak of the u.S. सिविल युद्ध in 1861, और the पहला राज्य to be readmitted to the Union at the end of the war.
Tennessee furnished more soldiers for the confederate फौज than कोई अन्य राज्य, and more soldiers for the Union Army than any other Southern state.
In the 20th सदी, टेनेसी transitioned इससे an कृषिक अर्थव्यवस्था to a more diversified economy, aided at times by federal entities such as the Tennessee Valley Authority.
In the early 1940s, the city of Oak Ridge was स्थापित to हाउस the मैनहटन प्रोजेक्ट 's यूरेनियम संवर्धन सुविधाएं, helping to build the world 's first atomic bomb.
Tennessee has played a नाजुक भूमिका in the विकास of अनेक फ़ॉर्म of अमरीकी लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक, including rock and roll, blues, country, and rockabilly.
Beale Street in मेम्फिस is माना by अनेक to be the जन्मस्थान of the ब्लूज़, साथ संगीतकारों such as W.C. Handy performing in its clubs as early as 1909.
Memphis was also home to Sun Records, where musicians such as Elvis Presley, Isaac हेज़, जॉनी नकदी, कार्ल perkins, जेरी ली लुईस, रॉय orbison, और चार्ली समृद्ध began उनके रिकॉर्डिंग करियर, और जहाँ चट्टान and roll took shape in the 1950s.
The 1927 Victor recording sessions in Bristol generally mark the शुरूआत of the देश म्यूज़िक विधा और the वृद्धि of the ग्रैंड ओले opry in the 1930s helped make Nashville the center of the country music recording industry.
Three bricks and mortar museums recognize Tennessee 's भूमिका in nurturing विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म of लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक : the मेम्फिस चट्टान n ' आत्मा संग्रहालय, the देश म्यूज़िक हॉल of Fame and Museum in Nashville, and the International Rock-A-Billy Museum in Jackson.
In addition, the Rockabilly Hall of Fame, an online site recognizing the विकास of rockabilly in जिससे टेनेसी निभाई a crucial role, is based in Nashville.
Tennessee 's major industries शामिल कृषि, निर्माण, and tourism.
मुर्गीपालन, soybeans, और चौपायों हैं the राज्य 's प्राथमिक agricultural उत्पाद, and major manufacturing exports include chemicals, transportation equipment, and electrical equipment.
The Great Smoky Mountains National Park, the nation 's most visited नेशनल पार्क, is headquartered in the पूर्वी भाग of the राज्य, और a section of the Appalachian Trail roughly follows the Tennessee-North Carolina border.
Other major tourist attractions include the टेनेसी एक्वेरियम in चट्टानूगा, the sunsphere in knoxville, dollywood in कबूतर forge, the पार्थेनन, the देश Music Hall of Fame and Museum, and Ryman Auditorium in Nashville, and Elvis Presley 's Graceland residence and tomb in Memphis.
One डिज़ाइन रूपांतर of a मुर्गा ring.
A cock ring is a ring that can be placed around a man 's शिश्न, प्रायः at the आधार, primarily to slow the प्रवाह of रक्त इससे the वीर्यपात penile ऊतक, यूँ maintaining an स्तंभन for a much longer period of time.
मुर्गा बजती can be worn around बस the शिश्न or दोनो the शिश्न और scrotum, or just the scrotum alone, though this is usually called a testicle cuff.
Rings can be made of a variety of different सामग्री, सबसे commonly चमड़े, रबर, or silicone, though nylon and metal are also used either as the main component or part of the closure.
The term मुर्गा रिंग is sometimes प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय लिये a प्रिंस अल्बर्ट piercing, a piercing of the penis that is usually, though not always, a metal ring.
When used in cases of erectile dysfunction वे हैं ज्ञात by विभिन्न names ऐसे as `` erection ring '' and `` tension ring ''.
The headquarters of Major League Baseball at 245 पार्क एवेन्यू, midtown Manhattan, New York City, USA.
Major League Baseball ( MLB ) is a professional baseball league, consisting of टीमों कि खेल in the नेशनल लीग and the American League.
Dating to 1876 and 1901 respectively, the two leagues merged in 2000 into a सिंगल संगठन led by the कमिश्नर of बेसबॉल, after 100 years as separate legal entities.
MLB constitutes एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर sports leagues of the United States and Canada.
it is रचित of 30 टीमों — 29 in the United States and one in Canada.
Teams in MLB खेल 162 खेल प्रत्येक ऋतु over छह months ( April through September ).
Five teams in each league advance to a four-round postseason टूर्नामेंट कि culminates in the World Series, a best-of-seven-games championship series between the two league champions which dates to 1903.
The organization oversees अनेक minor-league बेसबॉल लीग जिससे operate about 240 teams affiliated with the major-league clubs.
With the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बेसबॉल संघ, the लीग भी manages the international World Baseball Classic tournament.
MLB has the highest season attendance of कोई खेल लीग in the संसार साथ nearly 75 लाख spectators in 2012.
डेलावेयर ( ) is a u.S. राज्य स्तिथ on the अटलांटिक Coast in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States.
it is bordered to the दक्षिण और वेस्ट by मेरीलैंड, to the northeast by New Jersey, and to the north by Pennsylvania.
The state takes its name from Thomas वेस्ट, 3rd सामन्त de la warr, an अंग्रेज़ी nobleman और वर्जिनिया 's पहला colonial governor, after whom what is now called Cape Henlopen was originally named.
Delaware is located in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva Peninsula and is the second smallest, the छठे तनिक populous, लकिन the छठे सबसे densely आबादी of the पचास संयुक्त States.
डेलावेयर is विभाजित into तीन counties.
From north to south, these तीन काउंटी हैं नई किला, केंट, and Sussex.
While the southern two counties have historically महरूम predominantly agricultural, नई किला County has been more industrialized.
Before its coastline was explored by europeans in the 16th सदी, डेलावेयर थी inhabited by अनेक समूह of देशी अमेरिकी, including the Lenape in the north and Nanticoke in the south.
It was initially colonized by डच व्यापारियों at zwaanendael, स्तिथ निकट the उपस्थित town of Lewes, in 1631.
Delaware was one of the 13 colonies participating in the American क्रान्ति और on दिसम्बर 7, 1787, became the पहला राज्य to ratify the संविधान of the संयुक्त राज्य, thereby becoming known as The First State.
उर्जा परिवर्तन in Energy Systems Language
Energy transformation or energy conversion is the process of बदलना एक रूप of उर्जा to another.
In physics, the term energy describes the capacity to उपज निश्चित परिवर्तन भीतर a प्रणाली, बगैर लिहाज़ to सीमाएं in transformation imposed by Entropy.
Changes in total energy of प्रणालियों can तभी be संपन्नता by adding or subtracting उर्जा इससे उन्हें, as उर्जा is a quantity which is conserved, according to the first law of thermodynamics.
According to special relativity, changes in the energy of systems will also coincide with changes in the system 's द्रव्यमान, और the कुल राशि of द्रव्यमान of a प्रणाली is a माप of its energy.
Energy in a system may be transformed so that it resides in a अलग राज्य, or a अलग प्रकार of energy.
Energy in अनेक राज्य may be प्रयुक्त to do अनेक varieties of physical work.
Energy may be प्रयुक्त in प्राकृतिक प्रक्रियाओं or मशीने, or else to provide some service to society ( such as heat, light, or motion ).
For example, an internal combustion engine converts the potential chemical energy in gasoline and ऑक्सीजन into ऊष्मा, जिससे is तब रूपांतरित into the propulsive उर्जा ( गतिज उर्जा कि चालें a vehicle ).
A solar कोशिका converts सौर विकिरण into विद्युत उर्जा कि can then be used to light a bulb or power a computer.
The generic name for a यंत्र जिससे converts उर्जा इससे एक रूप to another, is a transducer.
In सामान्य, सबसे प्रकार of उर्जा, सहेजें लिये थर्मल उर्जा, may be converted efficiently to any other kind of energy.
Sometimes this occurs with an efficiency of essentially 100 %, ऐसे as जब संभावित उर्जा is परिवर्तित to गतिज उर्जा as an ऑब्जेक्ट falls in vacuum, or when it orbits nearer or farther from another object, in space.
Conversion of other types of energies to ऊष्मा may भी occurs साथ nearly पूर्ण दक्षता ( अनेक प्रकार of friction do this ).
Exceptions for perfect conversion efficiency ( even for पृथक प्रणालियों ) occur जब उर्जा रै already महरूम partly वितरित among अनेक उपलब्धियाँ क्वांटम राज्य लिये a संग्रहण of अणु, जिससे हैं freely allowed to explore any state of momentum and position ( phase space ).
In such circumstances, a measure called Entropy, or evening-out of उर्जा वितरण in ऐसे राज्य, dictates कि भविष्य राज्य of the system must be of at least equal evenness in energy distribution.
( There is no way, taking the universe as a whole, to collect उर्जा into कम राज्य, एकबार it रै स्प्रेड to them ).
A consequence of this requirement is that there are limitations to the दक्षता साथ जिससे थर्मल उर्जा can be परिवर्तित to अन्य kinds of उर्जा, चूंकि थर्मल उर्जा in संतुलन at a दिए temperature already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between all possible states.
Such energy is sometimes माना `` degraded उर्जा, '' क्युकी it is नहीं entirely usable.
The second law of thermodynamics is a way of stating that, for this reason, thermal energy in a system may be converted to other kinds of energy with efficiencies approaching 100 %, तभी if the एन्ट्रॉपी ( even-ness or विकार ) of the ब्रह्मांड is increased by अन्य अर्थात्, to compensate लिये the घटी in entropy associated with the disappearance of the thermal energy and its entropy content.
Otherwise, only a part of thermal energy may be converted to other kinds of energy ( and thus, useful work ), since the शेष of the ऊष्मा जरूर be सुरक्षित to be transferred to a थर्मल टंकी at a निम्नतर तापमान, in ऐसे a रास्ता कि the increase in Entropy for this process more than compensates for the entropy decrease associated with transformation of the rest of the heat into other types of energy.
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' जिससे operates a प्रमुख पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग of 30 franchised सदस्य क्लब, of जिससे सात हैं फिलहाल स्तिथ in Canada and 23 in the United States.
Headquartered in New York City, the NHL is widely considered to be the प्रीमियर पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग in the संसार, और एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग in the United States and Canada.
The Stanley Cup, the oldest professional sports trophy in North America, is awarded annually to the लीग playoff चैंपियन at the समाप्त of each season.
The league was organized on November 26, 1917, in मॉन्ट्रियल, क्यूबेक, कनाडा, बाद the बर्खास्तगी of परिचालन of इसके पूर्ववर्ती संगठन, the नेशनल हॉकी संघ ( NHA ), which had been founded in 1909.
It प्रारंभ साथ चार टीमों और, through a श्रेणी of expansions, contractions, and relocations, the league is now composed of 30 active franchises.
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred was Canada, although the लीग रै अभी महरूम binational चूंकि 1924 जब it विस्तारित into the United States.
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season, the लीग resumed खेल अंतर्गत a नई सामूहिक bargaining अनुबंध कि शामिल a सैलरी cap.
In 2009, the एनएचएल enjoyed रिकार्ड highs in शर्तें of sponsorships, attendance, and television audiences.
The NHL draws many highly skilled players from all over the संसार और फिलहाल रै खिलाड़ी इससे about 20 different countries.
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the एनएचएल, over the पास्ट चार प्लस दशकों the percentages of us and European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967, and the increased availability of highly skilled European players.
This is the पूरा सूची of the ratified और unratified amendments to the United States Constitution which received the approval of the United States Congress.
Twenty-seven amendments have been ratified since the original signing of the संविधान, the पहला टेन of जिससे हैं ज्ञात collectively as the Bill of Rights.
The procedure for amending the United States संविधान is governed by आलेख v of the original text.
There have been many other proposals for amendments to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान introduced in कॉंग्रेस, लकिन नहीं सुपुर्द to the states.
Before an amendment can take effect, it must be proposed to the states by a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress or by a convention ( known as an Article V convention ) called by two-thirds of the राज्य, और ratified by three-fourths of the राज्य or by three-fourths of प्रथाओं thereof, the विधि of अनुसमर्थन होने determined by Congress at the time of proposal.
To date, no convention for proposing amendments has been called by the राज्य, और तभी once—in 1933 लिये the अनुसमर्थन of the twenty-first amendment —has the convention method of ratification been employed.
FMR LLC ( Fidelity Management and Research ) or वफ़ादारी निवेश is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय वित्तीय सेवाएं corporation.
It is one of the largest परस्पर निधि और वित्तीय सेवाएं समूह in the world.
It was founded in 1946 और serves उत्तर American investors.
Fidelity Ventures is इसके venture पूंजी भुजा.
Fidelity International Limited ( FIL ), थी an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संबद्ध संस्थापित in 1969, serving most countries in the rest of the world.
In September 2011, FIL थी rebranded as 'fidelity Worldwide Investment '.
Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual funds, provides fund वितरण और निवेश सलाह सेवाएं, as खूब as providing छूट brokerage सेवाएं, रिटायरमेंट सेवाएं, माल प्रबन्धन, प्रतिभूति निष्पादन और क्लीयरेंस, life insurance and a number of other services.
जून 2006 थी the छठे month of that year.
It began on a गुरुवार और ended बाद 30 दिनों on a Friday The following events also occurred during the month:
Sociology is the scientific study of human society and its origins, विकास, संगठन, और संस्थानों.
It is a social science which uses various methods of empirical investigation and critical analysis to develop a body of knowledge about इंसान सोशल कार्यकलाप, structures, and functions.
A goal for many sociologists is to conduct research which may be लागू सीधे to सोशल नीति और welfare, जबकि अन्य फ़ोकस primarily on शोधन the theoretical understanding of social processes.
Subject matter ranges from the micro level of individual agency and बातचीत to the मैक्रो स्तर of प्रणालियों और the सोशल ढांचा.
The traditional focuses of sociology include social stratification, social class, culture, race and ethnicity, लिंग और कामुकता, सोशल गतिशीलता, धर्म, secularization, विधि, and deviance.
As all spheres of human activity are affected by the interplay between social structure and individual agency, sociology has gradually expanded its focus to further subjects, such as health, medical, सैन्य और penal संस्थानों, the अंतरजाल, पर्यावरणीय समाजशास्त्र, राजनैतिक अर्थव्यवस्था और the भूमिका of सोशल कार्यकलाप in the विकास of वैज्ञानिक knowledge.
The range of social scientific विधि रै भी विस्तारित.
Social researchers चित्रण upon a किस्में of गुणात्मक and quantitative techniques.
The linguistic और सांस्कृतिक turns of the mid-twentieth सदी led to increasingly interpretative, hermeneutic, and philosophic approaches to the analysis of society.
Conversely, हाल दशकों have देखी the वृद्धि of नई analytically, mathematically और computationally कठोर techniques, such as agent-based modelling and social network analysis.
Sociology should not be confused with various general social अध्ययन पाठ्यक्रम जिससे भालू छोटी संबंध to समाजशास्त्रीय theory or social science research methodology.
Thunder is the sound caused by बिजली.
depending on the प्रकृति of the बिजली और अलहदा of the श्रोता, थंडर can range from a sharp, loud crack to a long, low rumble ( brontide ).
The sudden increase in दबाव और तापमान इससे बिजली produces रैपिड विस्तार of the air surrounding and within a bolt of lightning.
In turn, this expansion of air creates a सोनिक शॉक वेव, समान to a सोनिक boom, which produces the sound of thunder, often referred to as a clap, crack, or peal of thunder.
the अलहदा of the बिजली can be गणना by the श्रोता based on the time interval from when the lightning is seen to when the sound is heard.
Palma (,, ), in full Palma de Mallorca, is the प्रमुख नगर और बंदरगाहों on the द्वीप of majorca ( mallorca ) और capital city of the autonomous community of the Balearic Islands in Spain.
The names Ciutat de Mallorca ( City of Majorca ) and Ciutat ( City ) were used before the War of the स्पेनी उत्तराधिकार और हैं स्टिल used by people in Majorca.
However, the आधिकारिक नाम थी mallorca, the वही as the island.
It is situated on the दक्षिण coast of the द्वीप on the Bay of Palma.
As of the 2009 जनसांख्यिकी, the जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर of पालमा उचित थी 401,270, और the population of the entire urban area was 517,285, ranking as the twelfth largest urban area of Spain.
Almost half of the कुल जनसांख्यिकी of Majorca live in Palma.
The Cabrera Archipelago, हालांकि widely अलग इससे पालमा उचित, is administratively considered part of the municipality.
Its airport, Son Sant जोन, serves over 22 लाख यात्री each year.
The Marivent Palace was offered by the नगर to the तब प्रिंस जुआन Carlos I of Spain.
The royals have since खर्च उनके गर्मियाँ छुट्टियाँ in पालमा.
luthor redirects here.
For other उपयोग, देखिए लूथर ( बहुविकल्पी ).
Alexander Joseph `` Lex '' Luthor is a fictional अक्षर, a supervillain appearing in comic books published by DC Comics.
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman, और as a high-status supervillain, रै भी आइये into विरोध साथ बैटमैन और other superheroes in the DC Universe.
निर्मित by जेरी siegel और जो shuster, the अक्षर पहला appeared in Action Comics # 23 ( April 1940 ).
Luthor is वर्णित as `` a power-mad, दुष्ट वैज्ञानिक '' of high intelligence and incredible technological prowess.
Luthor 's goals typically बीच on हत्या सुपरमैन, the foremost बाधा to achieving the villain 's megalomaniacal goals.
Despite periodically wearing a powered exoskeleton, Luthor has traditionally lacked superpowers or a डुअल पहचान.
The अक्षर थी originally चित्रित as a mad वैज्ञानिक जो, in the vein of pulp novels, wreaks havoc on the world with his futuristic weaponry.
In his earliest दिखावे, luthor is दिखाया साथ a पूरा head of red hair.
Despite this, the अक्षर बाद became hairless as the result of an artist 's mistake.
A 1960 story by Jerry Siegel expanded upon Luthor 's origin and motivations, revealing him to be a childhood friend of सुपरमैन 's जो खोया उसके बाल जब a आग नष्ट उसके laboratory ; Luthor vowed revenge.
Following the 1985 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths, the character was re-imagined as a machiavellian उद्योगपति और white-collar दण्ड, भी briefly serving as President of the United States.
In recent years, various writers have revived luthor 's mad वैज्ञानिक persona इससे the 1940s.
The character was ranked as the 8th महानतम विलेन by जादूगर on its 100 Greatest Villains of All Time list.
IGN 's list of the Top 100 Comic किताब खलनायक of सब समय क्रमित Luthor as # 4.
Luthor is also described as a `` megavillain '' by comic book critic पीटर sanderson, एक of a few genre-crossing खलनायक जिनकी adventures लो प्लेस `` in a संसार in जिससे the ordinary कानून of प्रकृति हैं थोड़ा निलंबित '' ; वर्ण such as Professor Moriarty, Count Dracula, Hannibal Lecter, Doctor Doom, and Darth Vader, also fit this description.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a संयुक्त राज्य संघीय अवकाश अंकन the जन्मदिवस of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
It is observed on the तीसरा सोमवार of जनवरी प्रत्येक साल, जिससे is around the समय of King 's birthday, January 15.
The floating holiday is similar to holidays set under the वर्दी सोमवार अवकाश अधिनियम, हालांकि the अधिनियम predated the स्थापना of मार्टिन Luther King, Jr. Day by 15 years.
King was the chief spokesman for nonviolent सक्रियता in the सिविल अधिकारों गति, जिससे सफलतापूर्वक protested racial discrimination in federal and state law.
The campaign for a federal holiday in King 's honor began जल्द बाद उसके हत्या in 1968.
Ronald Reagan signed the holiday into law in 1983, और it थी पहला observed on जनवरी 20, 1986.
At first, some states resisted observing the holiday as such, giving it वैकल्पिक names or combining it साथ अन्य holidays.
It was officially observed in सब 50 राज्य लिये the पहला time in 2000.
The camera phone समाधान allows तत्काल sharing of तस्वीरें.
as it 's स्वचालित और तत्काल, the उपयोक्ता करता नहीं have to use a cable or removable media to connect to a personal computer.
A camera phone is a मोबाईल फोन जिससे is समर्थ to कैप्चर still photographs ( and usually video ).
Since early in the 21st सदी the बहुमत of मोबाईल फोन in उपयोग हैं कैमरा phones.
Most camera phones हैं simpler than पृथक डिजिटल cameras.
Their usual फिक्स्ड फ़ोकस lenses और smaller sensors limit their performance in poor lighting.
Lacking a physical shutter, सबसे have a long shutter lag.
फ्लैश, जहाँ उपस्थित, is usually weak.
Optical zoom और तिपाई screws are rare.
Some also lack a USB connection, removable memory card, or अन्य रास्ता of transferring उनके तस्वीरें अधिक जल्दी than by the phone 's inherent communication feature.
Some of the more expensive camera phones have only a few of these technical disadvantages, जिससे लागू सबसे acutely in कम लाइट शर्तें और in कोई मामला have नहीं inhibited their widespread use.
Most मॉडल लाइनों improve in these regards every year or two.
Some, such as the Droid अविश्वसनीय तभी have a मेनू चुनाव to start an application program to activate the camera.
Others, such as the BlackBerry Storm 2, Droid X, मोटोरोला v980 और नोकिया 5800 भी have a पृथक कैमरा बटन लिये quickness and convenience.
Windows Phones can be विन्यस्त to operate as a कैमरा even if the phone is asleep.
Some camera phones are designed to resemble separate low-end डिजिटल कॉम्पैक्ट कैमरे in रूप और to कुछ extent in सुविधाएँ और picture quality, and are branded as both mobile phones and cameras, including certain Sony phones.
The principal advantages of camera फोन हैं लागत और compactness ; बेशक लिये a उपयोक्ता जो carries a मोबाईल फोन वैसे, the additional size and cost are negligible.
Smartphones that हैं कैमरा फोन may चलाएं मोबाईल अनुप्रयोग to add सामर्थ्य such as geotagging and image stitching.
A few high end phones can use their touch screen to direct their camera to focus on a particular object in the field of दृश्य, giving भी an अनुभवहीन उपयोक्ता a उपाधि of फ़ोकस कंट्रोल exceeded तभी by seasoned फ़ोटोग्राफ़र using manual focus.
`` Whatever Happened to the Man of कल ? '' is a 1986 कॉमिक किताब स्टोरी featuring the dc कॉमिक्स character of Superman.
Written by Alan Moore with help from long-time, और जल्द to be retiring, सुपरमैन एडिटर, जूलियस schwartz, the स्टोरी थी प्रकाशित in दो parts, beginning in Superman # 423 and ending in Action Comics # 583, both published in September 1986.
The story was drawn by long-time कलाकार रूखा swan, in उसके फाइनल प्रमुख योगदान to the सुपरमैन शीर्षक, और थी inked by जार्ज pérez in the समस्या of सुपरमैन and Kurt Schaffenberger in the issue of Action Comics.
The story was an imaginary tale which told the फाइनल स्टोरी of the चांदी आयु सुपरमैन और उसके long इतिहास, जिससे थी होने rebooted following the events of Crisis on Infinite Earths, before his modern introduction in the John Byrne series, The Man of Steel.
Moore wanted his plot to honor the long history of the अक्षर और to serve as a पूरा निष्कर्ष to उसके mythology.
The story is a frame story set टेन सालो बाद सुपरमैन थी पिछला देखी, जहाँ लोइस लेन recounts the टेल of the end of Superman 's career to a reporter from the Daily Planet.
Her story includes numerous violent attacks against Superman by उसके दुश्मनों, the पब्लिक रहस्योद्घाटन of उसके रहस्य पहचान of क्लार्क केंट और a number of deaths of those closest to him.
The story has been cited as one of the बेहतरीन कहानियां of the अक्षर of सुपरमैन, और critics and audiences frequently choose it as one of the most memorable comics ever published.
It is used as an example of how to close the long-time निरंतरता of a कॉमिक किताब अक्षर.
The story 's legacy has endured साथ समान कहानियां लिखा as tributes to it.
The title is a सन्दर्भ to एक of the nicknames of सुपरमैन as the man of कल, and was used in the title of another Superman.
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car, designed and developed by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in molsheim, फ़्रांस by bugatti ऑटोमोबाइल S.A.S.
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the fastest street-legal उत्पादन car in the संसार, साथ a शीर्ष गति of.
The original version रै a शीर्ष गति of.
It was named Car of the दशक ( 2000–2009 ) by the बीबीसी टेलीविज़न programme Top Gear.
The मानक veyron जीती शीर्ष गियर्स बेहतरीन Car Driven All Year award in 2005.
On 6 April 2013, Bugatti set the record for the fastest roadster in the संसार साथ the veyron ग्रैंड खेल vitesse, reaching on औसत a शीर्ष गति of.
The Veyron 's chief पंक्तियां थी hartmut warkuss, और the exterior थी designed by jozef kabaň of volkswagen, साथ much of the engineering work being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber.
A number of special variants have महरूम उत्पादित.
In December 2010, Bugatti began offering prospective खरीदार the क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior और इंटीरियर्स colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website.
The institution of the Eucharist has been a key theme in the depictions of the पिछला भोजन in ईसाई आर्ट, as in इस 16th-century जुआन de juanes painting.
`` At the Last Supper, on the रात्रि he थी गद्दारी, हमारी रक्षक instituted the Eucharistic sacrifice of his Body and Blood. ''
( catechism of the Catholic Church 1323 )
Eucharist in the Catholic Church refers to both the celebration of the Mass, that is, the Eucharist liturgy, और the ब्रैड और वाइन जिससे बाद the प्रतिष्ठापना हैं transubstantiated ( बदला in पदार्थ ) into the देह और रक्त of यीशु मसीह, रब और परमेश्वर, a घोषणा प्रतिपादित by the परिषद of Trent with an anathema against anyone who denied this.
Blessed Sacrament is a devotional पद प्रयुक्त in the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर to refer to the eucharistic species ( the Body and Blood of Christ ).
The following is a list of कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों in the u.S. state of Louisiana.
A छोटी स्टोरी is a ब्रैड कार्य of साहित्य, प्रायः written in narrative prose.
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling traditions in the 17th सदी, the छोटी स्टोरी रै grown to encompass a देह of work so diverse as to defy easy characterization.
At its most prototypical the short story features a small cast of named characters, and focuses on a self-contained घटना साथ the intent of evoking a `` single effect '' or mood.
In so doing, छोटी कहानियां मेक उपयोग of प्लाट, अनुनाद, और अन्य डायनेमिक components to a दूर वृहद उपाधि than is typical of an anecdote, yet to a far lesser degree than a novel.
While the छोटी स्टोरी is largely पृथक इससे the अनोखा, लेखक of दोनो generally draw from a common pool of literary techniques.
Short कहानियां have no नियत length.
In terms of word count there is no आधिकारिक demarcation between an किस्सा, a short story, and a novel.
Rather, the form 's पैरामीटर्स हैं दिए by the rhetorical और व्यावहारिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट in जिससे a दिए स्टोरी is उत्पादित और माना, so कि what constitutes a short story may differ between genres, countries, eras, and commentators.
Like the novel, the short story 's predominant shape reflects the demands of the उपलब्धियाँ बाज़ार लिये प्रकाशन, और the एवोल्यूशन of the रूप seems closely tied to the एवोल्यूशन of the publishing industry and the submission guidelines of its constituent houses.
The short story has been considered both an apprenticeship form preceding अधिक lengthy works, और a crafted रूप in इसके अपना सही, एकत्रित साथ in books of similar length, price, and distribution as novels.
Short story writers may define their works as भाग of the कलाकारी और निजी अभिव्यक्ति of the form.
They may also attempt to resist categorization by विधा and fixed form.
क्षेत्रफल कोड in Michigan
Area code 810 is the टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल कोड सेवारत पूर्वी Michigan.
The raccoon (, Procyon lotor ), sometimes spelled racoon, also known as the आम raccoon, उत्तर अमरीकी raccoon, उत्तरी raccoon और colloquially as कून, is a medium-sized mammal native to North America.
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid परिवार, having a body length of and a body weight of.
Its grayish coat ज़्यादातर consists of घना underfur जिससे insulates against cold weather.
Two of the raccoon 's सबसे distinctive सुविधाएँ हैं इसके अत्यधिक dexterous front paws and its facial mask, which are themes in the mythology of several Native American tribes.
Raccoons are noted for their प्रज्ञा, साथ अध्ययन प्रर्दशित कि वे हैं समर्थ to याद the solution to tasks for up to three years.
The diet of the omnivorous raccoon, which is प्रायः nocturnal, consists of परिचय 40 % invertebrates, 33 % plant foods, and 27 % vertebrates.
The original habitats of the raccoon हैं पतझड़ी और मिश्रित वनों, लकिन due to उनके adaptability वे have विस्तारित their range to mountainous areas, coastal marshes, and urban areas, where some homeowners consider them to be pests.
as a परिणाम of escapes और deliberate introductions in the mid-20th सदी, raccoons हैं अभी also distributed across the European mainland, the Caucasus region and Japan.
हालांकि previously विचार to be एकान्त, वहीँ is now evidence that raccoons engage in gender-specific social behavior.
Related females often share a common area, while unrelated males live together in groups of up to चार पशु to maintain उनके स्थितियाँ विरूद्ध विदेशी males दौरान the mating season, and other potential invaders.
Home range sizes vary anywhere इससे 3 हेक्टेयर ( 7 एकड़ ) लिये महिलाओं in शहरों to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) for males in prairies.
After a gestation काल of परिचय 65 days, two to five young, known as `` kits '', are born in spring.
the kits हैं subsequently उठाया by their mother until dispersion in late fall.
Although captive raccoons have been known to live over 20 years, their average life प्रत्याशा in the जंगली is तभी 1.8 to 3.1 सालो.
In many areas, hunting और vehicular चोट हैं the दो सबसे common causes of death.
The 2010 Haiti earthquake was a catastrophic magnitude 7.0 Mw earthquake, with an उपरिकेंद्र निकट the कस्बा of léogâne ( ouest विभाग ), लगभग वेस्ट of port-au-prince, Haiti 's capital.
The भूकंप occurred at 16:53 लोकल समय ( 21:53 UTC ) on Tuesday, 12 January 2010.
By 24 January, at least 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or वृहद था महरूम अंकित.
An estimated तीन लाख लोगों यहूद प्रभावित by the quake.
The highest reliable death count थी अनुमानित at 220,000.
haitian सरकारी estimates were higher.
the सरकारी of हैती अनुमानित कि 250,000 निवास और 30,000 commercial buildings had collapsed or were severely damaged.
The earthquake caused प्रमुख क्षति in port-au-prince, Jacmel and other settlements in the region.
Many notable landmark buildings were significantly damaged or नष्ट, सहित the अध्यक्षीय राजमहल, the नेशनल सभा भवन, the port-au-prince Cathedral, and the main jail.
Among those मारे यहूद archbishop of Port-au-Prince Joseph Serge Miot, and opposition leader Micha Gaillard.
The headquarters of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र स्थिरीकरण मिशन in हैती ( minustah ), located in the capital, collapsed, killing many, including the Mission 's Chief, Hédi Annabi.
Many countries responded to appeals for humanitarian सहायता, pledging निधि और dispatching बचाव और medical teams, engineers and support personnel.
Communication systems, air, land, and sea transport facilities, hospitals, and electrical networks had been damaged by the earthquake, which hampered rescue and aid efforts ; भ्रम over जो थी in चार्ज, एयर ट्रैफ़िक जमघट, और समस्याएं साथ prioritisation of फ़्लाइट further जटिल early relief work.
Port-au-Prince 's morgues यहूद अभिभूत साथ tens of thousands of bodies.
ये था to be दफ्न in mass graves.
as छुटकारा tailed बंद, supplies, medical care and sanitation became priorities.
Delays in aid distribution led to angry appeals from aid workers और survivors, और लूटने और विरल हिंसा were observed.
On 22 January the United Nations noted that the emergency phase of the relief operation was आरेखण to a बंद, और on the following दिन the haitian सरकारी officially पुकारा बंद the search for survivors.
Mister Ed is a fictional talking घोड़ा, originally appearing in छोटी कहानियां by वाल्टर R. ब्रूक्स, और बाद in an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न हालात कॉमेडी उत्पादित by filmways that first aired in syndication from January 5 to July 2, 1961, and then on CBS from October 1, 1961 to February 6, 1966.
The stars of the show were Mister Ed, a palomino घोड़ा जो could `` बात '', निभाई by gelding बाँसुरी harvester और voiced by पूर्व पश्चिमी star Allan Lane ( who went uncredited for the entire length of the series ), and his owner, an eccentric and enormously klutzy, yet friendly, architect named Wilbur Post ( Alan Young ).
Much of the program 's humor stemmed इससे the फैक्ट मिस्टर ed होता speak only to Wilbur, as well as Ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker.
Other running jokes centered on Wilbur 's अक्षर होने a विशाल klutz और inadvertently causing नुक़सान to खुद or others.
According to the show 's producer, Arthur Lubin, Young was chosen as the सीसे अक्षर क्युकी he `` बस लगा जैसे the sort of guy a horse would talk to ''.
Lubin, a friend of Mae West, scored a coup by persuading the स्क्रीन प्रतीक to अतिथि स्टार in एक एपीसोड.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, reruns aired on उपनाम at नाइट from March 3, 1986, to February 1, 1993.
Sister station TV Land also reran the दिखाएँ इससे 1996–98 और again from 2003-06.
The series is currently ब्रॉडकास्ट प्रत्येक morning on इस tv, साथ साथ राजमार्ग पैट्रोल, और The Patty Duke Show.
It is also फिलहाल ब्रॉडकास्ट on hallmark फिल्म Channel.
As of January 1, 2011, the first two सीज़न of the दिखाएँ हैं उपलब्धियाँ on Hulu.
The Rapture is a term in Christian eschatology जिससे refers to the `` होने caught up '' discussed in 1 thessalonians 4:17, जब the `` dead in Christ '' and `` we who are alive and remain '' will be `` caught up in the clouds '' to meet `` the Lord in the air ''.
The पद `` rapture '' is प्रयुक्त in at least two senses.
In the pre-tribulation view, a समूह of लोगों होगा be बाएँ पीछे on धरती after another group literally leaves `` to meet the Lord in the air. ''
This is now the सबसे आम उपयोग of the पद, विशेषकर among fundamentalist Christians and in the United States.
The other, older use of the term `` Rapture '' is simply as a synonym for the final क़यामत generally, बगैर a विश्वास कि a समूह of लोगों is बाएँ पीछे on धरती लिये an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
This distinction is important as some types of christianity never refer to `` the rapture '' in धार्मिक शिक्षा, लकिन might उपयोग the पुरानी और अधिक सामान्य भाव of the शब्द `` rapture '' in referring to what happens during the final resurrection.
There are many दृश्य among ईसाइयों regarding the समय of मसीह 's वापसी ( सहित whether it होगा occur in एक इवेंट or दो ), और विभिन्न views regarding the destination of the aerial gathering described in 1 Thessalonians 4.
Denominations such as Roman Catholics, Orthodox Christians, Lutheran Christians, and Reformed ईसाइयों मानना in a rapture तभी in the भाव of a सामान्य फाइनल क़यामत, जब मसीह returns a single time.
They do not believe that a group of people is left पीछे on धरती लिये an विस्तारित tribulation काल बाद the कार्यक्रम of 1 Thessalonians 4:17.
Pre-tribulation rapture theology was developed in the 1830s by John Nelson Darby and the plymouth brethren, और popularized in the संयुक्त राज्य in the जल्दी 20th century by the wide circulation of the Scofield Reference Bible.
Kris Nathan Humphries ( born February 6, 1985 ) is an अमरीकी पेशेवर बास्केट खिलाड़ी साथ the ब्रुकलीन Nets.
The Philistine cities of गाजा, ashdod, ashkelon, ekron, and Gath
The Philistines (,,, or ;, plištim ), pleshet or peleset, यहूद a लोगों जो as भाग of the समुद्र peoples appeared in the दक्षिणी तटीय area of Canaan at the beginning of the Iron Age ( circa 1175 BC ), most probably from the Aegean region.
According to the Bible, they ruled the पाँच city-states ( the `` philistine pentapolis '' ) of गाजा, ashkelon, Ashdod, Ekron and Gath, from Wadi Gaza in the south to the Yarqon River in the north, but with no fixed border to the east.
The बाइबल paints उन्हें as the किंगडम of Israel 's most dangerous enemy.
Originating somewhere in the Aegean, their population was around 25,000 in the 12th सदी bc, उठती to a शिखर of 30,000 in the 11th सदी bc, of जिससे the ईजियन तत्व थी नहीं अधिक than half the total, and perhaps much less.
Nothing is ज्ञात लिये निश्चित परिचय the असली भाषा or भाषाएं of the Philistines, however they were not part of the Semitic Canaanite population.
There is some limited evidence in पक्ष of the assumption कि the philistines यहूद indo-european-speakers either from Greece and/or Luwian speakers from the coast of Asia Minor.
Philistine-related words found in the बाइबल हैं नहीं सामीती, और can in कुछ मामले, साथ रिज़र्वेशन, be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots.
By the beginning of the 1st Millennium BCE they had adopted the सामान्य canaanite भाषा of the प्रदेश.
The Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery ( ASVAB ) is a multiple choice test, administered by the संयुक्त राज्य सैन्य प्रवेश प्रसंस्करण कमांड, प्रयुक्त to determine qualification for enlistment in the United States armed forces.
It is often offered to American high school students when they हैं in the 10th, 11th और 12th ग्रेड, हालांकि anyone योग्य लिये enlistment may take it.
Although the test is administered by the military, it is not ( and never has been ) a आवश्यकता कि a test-taker साथ a qualifying स्कोर enlist in the हथियारबंद शक्तियां.
In financial accounting, a balance sheet or statement of financial position is a summary of the financial balances of a sole बंदोबस्त, a कारोबार साझेदारी, a निगम or अन्य कारोबार संगठन, ऐसे as an LLC or an LLP.
Assets, देनदारी और स्वामित्व इक्विटी हैं सूचीबद्ध as of a विशिष्ट date, such as the end of its financial year.
A balance चादर is प्रायः वर्णित as a `` snapshot of a company 's financial condition ''.
Of the चार मौलिक वित्तीय कथन, the संतुलन चादर is the तभी statement which applies to a single point in time of a business ' calendar year.
A मानक कम्पनी संतुलन चादर रै तीन भाग : एसेट, liabilities and ownership equity.
The main categories of assets are usually सूचीबद्ध पहला, और typically in order of liquidity.
Assets are followed by the देनदारी.
The difference between the assets and the देनदारी is ज्ञात as इक्विटी or the जाल एसेट or the जाल worth or capital of the company and according to the accounting equation, net worth must equal assets minus liabilities.
Another way to look at the same equation is कि एसेट बराबरी देनदारी प्लस मालिक 's इक्विटी.
Looking at the equation in this way shows how assets were financed : either by borrowing money ( liability ) or by using the मालिक 's धन ( मालिक 's equity ).
संतुलन चादरें हैं प्रायः प्रस्तुत साथ एसेट in one section and liabilities and net worth in the other section with the two sections `` balancing. ''
A business operating entirely in cash can measure its profits by withdrawing the संपूर्ण बैंको संतुलन at the समाप्त of the काल, प्लस कोई नकदी in hand.
However, many businesses are not paid immediately ; they build up inventories of goods और वे acquire इमारतें and equipment.
in अन्य शब्द : व्यवसायों have एसेट और so वे can not, even if they want to, immediately turn these into cash at the end of each period.
Often, these व्यवसायों owe धन to आपूर्तिकर्ता और to कर अधिकारियों, और the proprietors do not withdraw all their original capital and profits at the end of each period.
In अन्य शब्द businesses also have liabilities.
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire, commonly known as the.17 HMR, is a rimfire राइफल कार्ट्रिज विकसित by the ammunition कम्पनी hornady in 2002.
It descended from the.22 Magnum by necking down the.22 Magnum case to लो a.17 कैलिबर ( 4.5 mm ) गोली, और it is अधिक costly to shoot than traditional.22 caliber rimfire cartridges.
Commonly loaded with a 17 अनाज ( 1.1 g ) गोली, it can उद्धार muzzle velocities in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ).
The Schaumburg Flyers were a professional बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in schaumburg, इलिनोइस, in the United States.
The Flyers were to be a चार्टर सदस्य of the उत्तर अमरीकी लीग, जिससे is नहीं संबद्ध साथ प्रमुख League Baseball, however, the team folded in March 2011, before they began play in the NAL.
From the 1999 season to the 2010 ऋतु, the Flyers played their home games at Alexian Field, near the Elgin O'Hare Expressway.
The team formerly played in थंडर खाड़ी, ओंटारियो, जहाँ वे यहूद ज्ञात as the थंडर Bay Whiskey Jacks.
The team was originally a सदस्य of the उत्तरी League from 1993 to 2010.
On July 27, 2009, the flyers निभाई मेजबान to बैटल of the लिंगों ii, which pitted the Flyers against the National Pro Fastpitch Softball Champions, the Chicago Bandits.
निभाई by आधिकारिक सॉफ्टबॉल नियम, the खेल थी देखी by an overflow record crowd of 8,918, and was won by the Bandits 4-2.
In 1999, the flyers नियुक्त उनके पहला manager, Ron Kittle.
Kittle is best known for his playing days with the Chicago White Sox, and former Chicago Cubs and श्वेत sox खिलाड़ी ग्रेग hibbard was the pitching coach.
During the early years of the मताधिकार, kittle किया a श्रेणी of tv commercials to प्रचार the टोली, using the gimmick `` Ma Kittle. '' where he played both himself and his `` Ma. ''
The विज्ञापन यहूद कामयाब at sparking कुछ आरंभिक ब्याज in the टोली as the Flyers hoped to steal away fans from the nearby Kane County Cougars.
The ad mimicked the highly कामयाब converse विज्ञापन जहाँ लैरी जॉनसन स्ट्रक्चर as दोनो खुद और `` gramama. ''
At the end of the 2001 season, however, Kittle resigned इससे उसके managerial स्थिति, और जिम boynewicz थी hired to replace him.
In 2004, the flyers बना it to the उत्तरी लीग Championship Series against the St. Paul Saints.
Despite leading the five-game श्रेणी 2-1, schaumburg आखिरकार खोया the श्रेणी.
in खेल 5, flyers राहत पिचर lyle prempas अनुमत a खेल जीतना grand slam by St. Paul infielder Marc Mirizzi in the ninth inning.
The Flyers appeared in the Northern League Playoffs four times ( 1999, 2003, 2004, 2006 ) लकिन never जीती the चैंपियनशिप.
Some famous players who played for the flyers यहूद पूर्व ओकलैंड a 's outfielder ozzie canseco और पूर्व शिकागो शावक outfielder Dwight Smith.
Rachel Hannah Weisz ( / vice / ; born 7 कूच 1970 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी film and theatre actress and former fashion model.
Weisz began her acting career at Trinity Hall, कैम्ब्रिज in the जल्दी 1990s, तब प्रारंभ working in टेलीविज़न, appearing in इंस्पेक्टर मोर्स, the अंग्रेजों mini-series Scarlet and Black, and the television film Advocates II.
She made her film début in the film Death यंत्र ( 1994 ), लकिन उसके भेदन भूमिका आए in the फिल्मी कड़ी प्रतिक्रिया ( 1996 ), अग्रणी to a high-profile role as Evelyn Carnahan-O'Connell in the films The Mummy ( 1999 ) and The Mummy Returns ( 2001 ).
Other notable films featuring वाइज़ हैं दुश्मन at the गेट्स, परिचय a लड़के, constantine, the फव्वारा और the निरंतर माली, लिये जिससे she received an Academy Award, a Golden Globe and a Screen Actors ' Guild award for her supporting role as Tessa Quayle.
She has been labelled an `` English rose '' since उसके नाबालिग भूमिका in चोरी सौंदर्य ( 1996 ).
Weisz also works in theatre.
Her stage breakthrough was the 1994 पुनरुद्धार of noël कायर 's खेल डिज़ाइन लिये Living, which earned her the London Critics Circle Award for the most promising newcomer.
Weisz 's प्रदर्शन भी शामिल the 1999 donmar Warehouse production of Tennessee Williams ' Suddenly, Last Summer, and their 2009 revival of A Streetcar Named Desire.
Her portrayal of Blanche DuBois in the latter play earned her the आलोचकों ' वृत्त थिएटर Award for Best Actress.
She has recently played evanora in oz the Great and Powerful.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories.
विदेशी शक्तियां किया not intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his inauguration on March 4, 1861, seven cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate civil war.
Eight remaining स्लेव राज्य जारी to अस्वीकृत काल्स for secession.
Confederate forces जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A सलाम सम्मेलन विफल to find a compromise, and both sides prepared for war.
The confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina.
lincoln पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; consequently, four more slave states joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the दक्षिणी अर्थव्यवस्था.
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the emancipation उदघोषणा, जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी, तब much of उनके पश्चिमी armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western सफलताओं led to ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate अवसंरचना साथ the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending Confederate फौज विफल, अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The American Civil War was one of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, खानों, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed World War I.
it remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी white males aged 18–40.
Potato bread is a form of bread in which potato replaces a portion of the नियमित गेहूं आटा.
It is पकाया in a किस्में of विधि, सहित by baking it on a hot griddle or pan, or in an oven.
It may be leavened or unleavened, और may have a किस्में of other ingredients baked into it.
The ratio of आलू to गेहूं आटा varies significantly इससे रेसिपी to रेसिपी, साथ some recipes having a majority of potato, and others having a majority of wheat flour.
Some recipes call for mashed आलू, साथ अन्य कॉलिंग लिये निर्जलित potato flakes.
It is available as a commercial product in many countries, साथ समान विसंगतियाँ in संघटक, कुकिंग विधि, और other variables.
The प्रशांत समय मण्डल observes मानक समय by subtracting eight hours from Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
the क्लॉक समय in इस मण्डल is आधारित on the औसत सौर समय of the 120th meridian west of the Greenwich Observatory.
During daylight छायांकन समय, its time offset is.
In the United राज्य और कनाडा, इस समय मण्डल is generically called Pacific Time ( PT ).
Specifically, it is Pacific Standard Time ( pst ) जब observing मानक समय ( शीत ), और प्रशांत daylight समय ( पीडीटी ) जब observing daylight saving time ( summer ).
सबसे of कनाडा उपयोग daylight saving time.
In Mexico the utc−8 समय मण्डल is ज्ञात as the उत्तरपश्चिम मण्डल, जिससे is synchronized with the U.S. PDT daylight saving schedule.
The largest city in the प्रशांत समय मण्डल is लॉस एंजिल्स in कैलिफ़ोर्निया इससे यूएसए ; the city 's metropolitan area is the largest in the zone.
The zone is one hour ahead of the Alaska Time मण्डल, एक घंटा पीछे the पहाड़ समय मण्डल और तीन hours behind the Eastern Time Zone.
Stereo 8, commonly known as the eight-track कार्ट्रिज, eight-track टेप, or बस eight-track, is a चुम्बकीय टेप sound recording technology.
It was लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त राज्य इससे the mid-1960s through to the जल्दी 1980s, but was relatively unknown in many European countries.
It was, however, very popular in the संयुक्त किंगडम दौरान इस काल.
Stereo 8 was created in 1964 by a consortium led by विधेयक lear of lear जेट निगम, साथ with Ampex, Ford Motor Company, General Motors, Motorola, and RCA Victor Records ( RCA ).
it थी a further विकास of the समान stereo-pak four-track cartridge created by Earl `` Madman '' Muntz.
A later quadraphonic संस्करण of the स्वरूप थी घोषित by आरसीए in अप्रैल 1970 और first known as Quad-8, then later changed to just Q8.
Ramesses II ( 1303 BC – July or August 1213 BC ; Egyptian :, alternatively transcribed as Rameses and Ramses or ), referred to as Ramesses the Great, थी the तीसरा मिश्र pharaoh ( reigned 1279 bc – 1213 bc ) of the Nineteenth dynasty.
He is often regarded as the greatest, most celebrated, and सबसे शक्तिशाली pharaoh of the मिश्र साम्राज्य.
His successors and बाद उन्होंने पुकारा उसे the `` ग्रेट Ancestor. ''
रामेसेस ii led अनेक सैन्य रिझाने into the Levant, re-asserting Egyptian control over Canaan.
He भी led रिझाने to the दक्षिण, into नुबिया, commemorated in inscriptions at Beit el-Wali and Gerf Hussein.
at आयु चौदह, रामेसेस थी नियुक्त Prince Regent by his father Seti I.
He is believed to have taken the throne in his late teens and is known to have शासित मिश्र इससे 1279 bc to 1213 bc लिये 66 सालो और 2 महीने, according to दोनो manetho और मिश्र 's समकालीन ऐतिहासिक रिकॉर्ड.
He was once said to have lived to be 99 सालो बूढ़ा, लकिन it is अधिक संभावित कि he died in his 90th or 91st year.
If he became Pharaoh in 1279 BC as सबसे egyptologists आज मानना, he होता have assumed the सिंहासन on may 31, 1279 BC, based on his known accession date of III Shemu day 27.
Ramesses II celebrated an unprecedented 14 sed त्यौहार ( the पहला आयोजित बाद तीस सालो of a pharaoh 's शासनकाल, और तब प्रत्येक तीन सालो ) during his reign—more than any other pharaoh.
On his death, he was buried in a मकबरा in the घाटी of the किंग्स ; उसके देह थी बाद स्थानांतरित to a royal संचय जहाँ it थी खोजा in 1881, and is now on display in the Cairo Museum.
The early part of his reign was focused on building शहरों, मंदिरों और स्मारक.
He established the city of Pi-Ramesses in the Nile Delta as his new पूंजी और प्रमुख आधार लिये उसके campaigns in Syria.
This city was built on the remains of the नगर of avaris, the पूंजी of the हिक्सोस जब वे took over, and was the location of the main Temple of Set.
He is also known as ozymandias in the यूनानी स्त्रोत, इससे a लिप्यन्तरण into यूनानी of a part of Ramesses 's throne name,, `` Ra 's mighty truth, chosen of Ra ''.
The Texas रेंजरों हैं a पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली स्तिथ in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, based in Arlington, Texas.
The Rangers मताधिकार is फिलहाल a सदस्य of the Western Division of Major League Baseball 's American League.
चूंकि, the रेंजरों have निभाई in रेंजरों ballpark in Arlington in Arlington, Texas.
The team 's नाम is उधार इससे the famous law enforcement agency of the same name.
The franchise was established in 1961 by the name of the Washington Senators, an expansion team awarded to Washington, D.C., after the city 's पहला ballclub, the असली वॉशिंगटन सीनेटरों, स्थानांतरित to मिनेसोटा और became the Twins.
After the season, the new Senators moved to Arlington, टेक्सास, और debuted as the रेंजरों the following spring.
The टेक्सास रेंजरों बेसबॉल क्लबों रै बना छह दिखावे in the एमएलबी postseason, सब following प्रभाग championships, in 1996, 1998, 1999, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
In 2010, the Rangers उन्नत पास्ट the प्रभाग श्रेणी लिये the पहला समय, defeating the Tampa Bay Rays.
Texas then brought home their first अमरीकी लीग pennant बाद धड़कन the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़ in six games.
In the 2010 World Series, the मताधिकार 's पहला, the रेंजरों गिरी to the सैन फ्रांसिस्को Giants in five games.
Their lone विजय बना उन्हें the पहला टेक्सास टोली to जीत a संसार श्रेणी खेल, the ह्यूस्टन एस्टर्स having been swept in their 2005 World Series appearance.
They repeated as American League champions the following year, then खोया the 2011 संसार श्रेणी to the st. लुई कार्डिनल्स in सात खेल.
Gaius Julius Caesar (, July 100 BC – 15 March 44 BC ) was a Roman सामान्य, statesman, कौंसुल और notable लेखक of Latin prose.
He played a नाजुक भूमिका in the कार्यक्रम कि led to the निधन of the Roman Republic and the rise of the Roman Empire.
In 60 BC, Caesar, Crassus and Pompey formed a political गठबंधन कि थी to dominate रोमन राजनीती for several years.
Their attempts to amass power through populist tactics were opposed by the रूढ़िवादी elite भीतर the रोमन सीनेट, among उन्हें केटो the younger साथ the frequent support of Cicero.
सीज़र 's conquest of gaul, समाप्त by 51 bc, extended Rome 's territory to the English Channel and the Rhine.
सीज़र became the पहला रोमन सामान्य to क्रॉस दोनो जब he निर्मित a bridge across the Rhine and conducted the first invasion of Britain.
These achievements granted him unmatched military power and threatened to ग्रहण the खड़ा of pompey, जो had realigned himself with the Senate after the death of Crassus in 53 BC.
With the Gallic युद्धों concluded, the सीनेट ordered सीज़र to lay bas उसके military command and return to Rome.
Caesar refused, और चिह्नित उसके defiance in 49 bc by क्रासिंग the Rubicon with a legion, leaving his province and illegally entering Roman territory under arms.
सिविल युद्ध resulted, इससे जिससे he emerged as the unrivaled leader of Rome.
After assuming control of government, सीज़र began a कार्यक्रम of सोशल और सरकारी reforms, सहित the सृष्टि of the Julian calendar.
He centralised the अफसरशाही of the गणतंत्र और थी आखिरकार proclaimed `` dictator in perpetuity ''.
But the underlying political विरोध था नहीं महरूम resolved, और on the ides of कूच ( 15 कूच ) 44 bc, सीज़र was assassinated by a group of senators led by Marcus Junius Brutus.
A new श्रेणी of सिविल युद्धों broke आउट, और the संवैधानिक सरकारी of the Republic was never restored.
Caesar 's अपनाया वारिस octavian, बाद ज्ञात as augustus, rose to sole power, and the era of the Roman Empire began.
Much of सीज़र 's जीवन is ज्ञात इससे उसके अपना खाते of उसके सैन्य अभियान, and from other contemporary sources, mainly the letters and speeches of Cicero and the historical writings of Sallust.
The later biographies of सीज़र by suetonius and Plutarch are also major sources.
Caesar is deemed to be one of the महानतम सैन्य कमांडरों of इतिहास.
Linguistic map of सीरियल, कैमरून, and Benin.
Sign in English, बाहर the विश्वविद्यालयों of Lagos
There are hundreds of भाषाएं बोला in सीरियल.
the प्रमुख भाषाएं हैं योरूबा, हौसा, Igbo, Edo, Fulfulde, Kanuri, and Ibibio.
The official language of Nigeria, English, the former colonial भाषा, थी चुनी to सुकर the सांस्कृतिक और भाषाई unity of the country.
English, however, remains an exclusive preserve of the country 's शहरी elite, और is नहीं widely बोला in ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों, जिससे comprise तीन quarters of the देशों जनसांख्यिकी.
Nigeria 's भाषाई विविधता is a microcosm of अफ़्रीकी as a पूरे, encompassing three major African languages families : Afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, and Niger–Congo.
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages, such as Cen tuum, जिससे may represent a relic of an भी वृहद विविधता prior to the स्प्रेड of the current language families.
Daucus carota ( common names include wild carrot, ( UK ) bird 's nest, bishop 's lace, and Queen ऐनी 's फीता ( उत्तर अमेरिका ) ) is a flowering संयंत्र in the परिवार apiaceae, देशी to शीतोष्ण regions of Europe, southwest Asia and naturalised to North America and Australia.
domesticated गाजर हैं cultivars of a subspecies, Daucus carota subsp. sativus.
In the United States, the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य और पुष्टि by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट pursuant to the नियुक्ति clause in आलेख ii of the संयुक्त States Constitution.
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States, whose existence और कुछ पहलुओं of जिनकी क्षेत्राधिकार हैं परे the संवैधानिक शक्ति of कॉंग्रेस to alter, अधिनियमों of कॉंग्रेस have स्थापित 13 न्यायालयों of appeals ( भी पुकारा `` सर्किट न्यायालयों '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States, and 94 United States district courts.
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a संघीय न्यायधीश ; ऐसे स्थितियाँ शामिल the मुख्य इंसाफ और संबद्ध justices of the परम् अदालत, सर्किट न्यायाधीशों of the courts of appeals, and district judges of the United States district courts.
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the न्यायिक शाखा of the संघीय सरकारी by आलेख iii of the u.S. संविधान.
In addition, judges of the Court of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार कसरत न्यायिक शक्ति pursuant to Article III.
Other judges serving in the federal courts, including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges, हैं भी sometimes referred to as `` संघीय न्यायाधीशों '' ; however, वे हैं neither नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष nor confirmed by the Senate, and their power derives from Article I instead.
See आलेख i और आलेख III tribunals.
Nelly Kim Furtado ( born दिसम्बर 2, 1978 ) is a कनाडाई सिंगर, songwriter और अभिनेत्री.
She has sold 20 million एल्बम विश्वव्यापी और अधिक 20 लाख singles, bringing her total sales to over 40 million records around the world.
Furtado first gained fame with उसके डेब्यू एल्बम, वाह, नेल !
, जिससे शाखित दो कामयाब singles, `` I 'm Like a Bird `` and `` Turn Off the Light ``. ``
I 'm Like A Bird '' won a 2001 Juno Award for Single of the साल और a 2002 ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन मादा Pop Vocal Performance.
In 2003, Furtado released Folklore, which produced three international singles— `` powerless ( कह कया तुम want ) ``, `` कोशिश `` and `` Força ``.
Three सालो बाद वो released ढीला, a worldwide commercial success.
The album spawned चार number-one हिट्स : `` promiscuous ``, `` maneater ``, `` कह It Right `` and `` All Good Things ( Come to an End ) ``.
After a three-year ब्रेक, वो released उसके पहला full-length Spanish album, Mi Plan, and Furtado received a Latin Grammy for Best Female Pop Vocal Album.
In 2012, Furtado 's fourth English-language स्टुडियो एल्बम, the स्पिरिट अविनाशी थी released.
Furtado 's work has earned her numerous पुरस्कार और accolades, सहित 2 ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, 10 juno पुरस्कार, 3 muchmusic Video Awards and a star on Canada 's Walk of Fame.
Creatures of the Night is the दसवाँ स्टुडियो एल्बम by चुंबन.
It is the band 's last एल्बम लिये कासाब्लांका रिकॉर्ड, the तभी लेबल the group had ever recorded for at that point.
The album was dedicated to the memory of Casablanca संस्थापक और जल्दी चुंबन समर्थक neil bogart, जो था died of cancer during the recording sessions.
It is also the band 's last album recorded with Ace Frehley credited as an official member ( until 1998 's Psycho Circus ), and its पहला एल्बम साथ vinnie विंसेंट as the initially uncredited सीसे guitarist ( विंसेंट होता बाद be credited, लकिन not featured pictorially on the cover, of 1985 's reissue of the album ).
Touch is a crucial अर्थात् of receiving information.
This photo shows tactile markings identifying सीढ़ियाँ लिये visually impaired people.
The somatosensory प्रणाली is a विविध संवेदी प्रणाली comprising the receptors and processing centres to produce the sensory modalities such as touch, temperature, proprioception ( body position ), and nociception ( pain ).
The sensory receptors cover the skin and epithelia, skeletal मांसपेशियां, हड्डियों और joints, आतंरिक अंगों, और the cardiovascular system.
While touch is considered one of the five traditional होश, the छाप of टच is formed इससे अनेक modalities.
In medicine, the colloquial पद `` टच '' is प्रायः replaced साथ `` दैहिक होश '' to better reflect the variety of mechanisms involved.
Somatic senses are sometimes referred to as somesthetic senses, with the understanding that somesthesis includes टच, proprioception और ( depending on उपयोग ) भी haptic बोध.
The system reacts to diverse stimuli using different receptors : thermoreceptors, nociceptors, mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors.
Transmission of सूचना इससे the receptors गुजरता via संवेदी nerves through tracts in the spinal cord and into the brain.
Processing primarily occurs in the primary somatosensory area in the parietal पालि of the दिमागी cortex.
The cortical homunculus was devised by Wilder Penfield.
At its simplest, the system works जब कार्यकलाप in a संवेदी न्यूरॉन is triggered by a विशिष्ट stimulus ऐसे as ऊष्मा ; इस सिग्नल आखिरकार passes to an area in the brain uniquely attributed to that area on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be felt at the correct location.
The point-to-point मानचित्रण of the देह सतहों in the दिमाग is called a homunculus and is essential in the creation of a body image.
This brain-surface ( `` cortical '' ) मैप is नहीं अपरिवर्तनीय, however.
Dramatic shifts can occur in जवाब to stroke or injury.
Magnolia is a विशाल genus of परिचय 210 flowering संयंत्र प्रजाति in the subfamily Magnolioideae of the family Magnoliaceae.
It is named बाद फ्रेंच वनस्पतिशास्त्री Pierre Magnol.
magnolia is an प्राचीन genus.
Appearing before bees did, the पुष्प विकसित to प्रोत्साहित परागण by beetles.
To avoid damage from pollinating beetles, the carpels of magnolia पुष्प हैं अत्यधिक मुश्किल.
Fossilised specimens of magnolia acuminata have महरूम मिला डेटिंग to 20 लाख सालो पहले, और of plants identifiably belonging to the Magnoliaceae dating to 95 million years ago.
Another aspect of Magnolias that is considered to represent an ancestral state is that the flower कली is enclosed in a bract बल्कि than in sepals ; the perianth भाग हैं undifferentiated और पुकारा tepals बल्कि than distinct sepals and petals.
Magnolia shares the tepal characteristic with several other flowering पौधे निकट the आधार of the flowering संयंत्र lineage ऐसे as amborella और nymphaea ( as खूब as साथ अनेक अधिक recently निकला plants such as Lilium ).
The natural range of magnolia प्रजाति is a disjunct वितरण, साथ a प्रमुख केन्द्र in ईस्ट और southeast Asia and a secondary centre in eastern North America, Central America, the West Indies, and some species in South America.
अंगूठा
`` White Christmas '' is an इरविंग बर्लिन सोंग reminiscing परिचय an old-fashioned Christmas setting.
According to the Guinness Book of World Records, the version sung by Bing crosby is the best-selling सिंगल of सब समय, साथ अनुमानित sales in excess of 50 million copies worldwide.
खाते vary as to जब और जहाँ Berlin wrote the song.
One story is that he wrote it in 1940, in warm La Quinta, California, while staying at the La Quinta Hotel, a frequent Hollywood रिट्रीट भी favored by writer-producer फ़्रैंक capra, हालांकि the एरिज़ोना biltmore भी दावा the सोंग was written there.
He प्रायः ठहरे up सब रात्रि लिखने — he बताई उसके सचिव, `` Grab your pen and take down this song.
I just wrote the best song I 've ever written — heck, I बस लिखा the बेहतरीन सोंग कि anybody 's कभी लिखा ! ''
cross-country स्कीइंग ( or xc स्कीइंग ) is a रूप of स्की touring in जिससे participants propel themselves across snow-covered terrain using skis and poles.
The activity is popular in अनेक स्थान साथ विशाल snowfields, primarily Northern Europe, Canada, and Alaska.
Cross-country skiing is part of the Nordic skiing sport family, which includes ski jumping, Nordic combined ( cross-country स्कीइंग और स्की कूद ), biathlon ( स्कीइंग और राइफल marksmanship ) और ski-orienteering ( which includes map navigation along snow trails and tracks ).
Cross-country skiing is the modern स्टाइल of स्कीइंग कि सबसे resembles प्रागैतिहासिक स्कीइंग, particularly when done in the backcountry.
It is भी सम्बन्धित to telemark skiing.
A use tax in United States is complementary to sales tax which अर्थात्, if तुम ख़रीदे a taxable product/services बगैर paying कोई बिक्री कर to विक्रेता, you owe use tax.
You must self assess use tax and pay it directly to the state where the उत्पाद यहूद खपत or सेवाएं यहूद rendered.
Use tax typically is a tax on खपत लकिन if तुम ख़रीदे an मद ( बगैर paying sales tax ) and store it in your warehouse initially, use tax applies to that location where goods were stored.
Later on when the final consumption takes place at some other location, you are required to pay the अवकल of कर रेट to the क्षेत्राधिकार of परम प्लेस of खपत.
This really means that you do n't have to अदा दोनो बिक्री कर as खूब as Use Tax on one transaction.
It is only one or the other that you are जरूरी to अदा on खरीदें of taxable products/services.
If vendor does n't चार्ज कोई बिक्री कर on इसके चालान तब it is the दायित्व of the buyer to self assess Use tax and pay it to the appropriate Jurisdication.
Use Tax is generally चार्ज at the वही कर रेट of बिक्री Tax but in some states the tax rate is different.
उपयोग कर is भी termed as `` खपत Tax '' or `` Consumer Use Tax ''.
A use tax is a प्रकार of excise कर levied in the संयुक्त States by numerous state governments.
It is assessed upon tangible personal property purchased by a resident of the assessing राज्य लिये उपयोग, भंडार, or खपत in कि राज्य ( नहीं लिये पुनर्विक्रय ), regardless of जहाँ the खरीदें took place.
If a resident of a राज्य makes a खरीदें भीतर उसके घर राज्य, पूरा बिक्री कर is paid at the time of the transaction.
The use tax applies when a निवासी of the assessing राज्य purchases an item that is not subject to his home state 's sales tax.
Usually, this is due to out-of-state purchases, as well as ordering items through the मेल, by फोन, or over the अंतरजाल इससे अन्य राज्य.
The use कर is typically assessed at the वही रेट as the बिक्री कर कि होता have महरूम owed ( if any ) had the same goods been purchased in the state of residence.
For example, a resident of Massachusetts, with a 6.25 % `` sales and use tax '' on certain goods और सेवाएं, purchases non-exempt goods or सेवाएं in नई हैम्पशायर for use, storage or other consumption in Massachusetts.
Under New Hampshire law, the New Hampshire vendor collects no बिक्री कर on the goods, लकिन the मैसाचुसेट्स purchaser/user जरूर स्टिल अदा 6.25 % of the sales price directly to the Department of Revenue in Massachusetts as a use tax.
If the same goods are purchased in a US state that does collect sales tax for such goods at time of purchase, whatever taxes were paid by the purchaser to that state can be deducted ( as a कर क्रेडिट ) इससे the 6.25 % owed लिये subsequent उपयोग, भंडार or consumption in Massachusetts.
With few exceptions, no state 's vendors will charge the native state 's बिक्री कर on goods shipped आउट of राज्य, अर्थ सब goods ordered इससे out-of-state हैं essentially फ़्री of sales tax.
The क्रेता is इसलिए जरूरी to घोषित और pay the use tax to his home state on these ordered goods.
The assessing jurisdiction may make the use कर देय annually, लकिन कुछ राज्य आवश्यकता a monthly payment.
For example, where a Vermont resident has not paid at least 6 % sales tax on property brought in for use in the state, Vermont law requires filing a tax return ( Form SU-452 and भुगतान ) by the 20th दिन of the माह following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 लेट शुल्क, a 5 % दंड प्रति माह, to a maximum of 25 %, plus statutory interest on the unpaid tax and penalties.
Typical exemptions include purchases by charitable non-profit संगठन or सरकारी एजेंसियों, purchases लिये पुनर्विक्रय in कॉमर्स, और purchases via `` casual sales '' by individuals not in the ordinary course of business.
भी नोट कि वहीँ हैं हज़ारों of कर jurisdictions in the U.S. and many have ever-changing lists of specific types of goods and services that are not taxable.
As an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts law requires payment of tax on `` pre-written '' ( नहीं कस्टम ) तन्त्र खरीदा और डाउनलोड over the अंतरजाल लिये संस्थापना और उपयोग in Massachusetts, regardless of where it originates.
However, the actual उपयोग of the वही तन्त्र डाउनलोड by a मैसाचुसेट्स निवासी to a सर्वर in another राज्य remains a non-taxed `` service ''.
In contrast, अरकंसास generally करता नहीं कर anything वितरित over the अंतरजाल ( ऐसे as डाउनलोड तन्त्र or music ), except VoIP which is specifically defined as taxable `` telecommunications services ''.
Software ( pre-written or custom ) `` delivered thru a tangible medium '' ( i.e., on disk ) in Arkansas is taxable even if ordered ऑनलाइन, मगर `` कस्टम तन्त्र लिये a particular ग्राहक '' जिससे is non-taxable `` प्रोग्रामिंग सेवाएं '' even if delivered on a disk.
In most cases, this complexity is part of the underlying sales tax laws ; but while a brick-and-mortar स्टोर रै to सौदे साथ तभी the बिक्री कर कानून of इसके अपना स्थान, रिमोट विक्रेता have to सौदे साथ the उपयोग कर कानून of अनेक jurisdictions—up to प्रत्येक us राज्य और मोहल्ले that assesses them, if the company has a presence or `` nexus '' in every state ( as large `` brick-and-mortar '' sellers like Wal-Mart and Best Buy do ).
In medicine, pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an बढ़ाएँ of रक्त दबाव in the pulmonary धमनी, pulmonary रग, or pulmonary capillaries, साथ known as the lung vasculature, leading to shortness of breath, dizziness, fainting, and other symptoms, all of which are exacerbated by exertion.
pulmonary hypertension can be a कठोर बीमारी साथ a markedly decreased exercise tolerance and heart failure.
It was first पहचाना by dr. अर्नस्ट von Romberg in 1891.
According to the most recent वर्गीकरण, it can be एक of पाँच अलग प्रकार : arterial, venous, hypoxic, thromboembolic or miscellaneous.
सही
सही
Sanuk, a division of Deckers बाहरी निगम, is a जूते ब्रांड आधारित in Southern California.
Sanuk, the Thai word for fun, was founded by Southern California native Jeff Kelley जब he प्रारंभ बनाना चप्पल आउट of indoor-outdoor carpet.
The first product created was green carpeted and हकदार the `` फर रियल '' बाद एक दूकान मालिक asked if the novelty sandal was `` For Real. ''
The Fur Real पहला became a runaway hit through बुटीक stores and not the intended surf shops.
The novelty act was followed up by a चन्दन लपेटा in तार जाल, a तेंदुआ छपाई संस्करण, और शैलियाँ बना out of a poncho material in a variety of colors.
Sanuk has grown to शामिल स्टाइल विकल्प लिये मेन, महिलाओं और युवावस्था और is वितरित आरपार the संयुक्त States and in over 50 countries throughout Europe, Asia, South America and Australia.
Sanuk centers itself around a positive जीवनशैली वकालत the स्लोगन, `` मुस्कान, pass it on ! ``.
In computer विज्ञान, सरणी प्रोग्रामिंग भाषाएं ( भी ज्ञात as वेक्टर or multidimensional भाषाएं ) generalize परिचालन on scalars to apply transparently to vectors, matrices, and higher dimensional arrays.
Array programming primitives concisely एक्स्प्रेस व्यापक विचार about data manipulation.
The level of conciseness can be dramatic in certain मामले : it is नहीं uncommon to ढूँढें सरणी प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा one-liners that require more than a couple of pages of Java code.
APL, designed by Ken Iverson, was the first प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा to provide सरणी प्रोग्रामिंग capabilities.
The mnemonic APL refers to the title of his seminal किताब `` a प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा '' और नहीं to arrays प्रति se. Iverson 's contribution to rigor and clarity was probably more important than the simple extension of dimensions to functions.
In the United राज्य an annuity अनुबंध is निर्मित जब an insured पार्टी, प्रायः an व्यक्तिगत, pays a जीवन बीमे company a single premium that will later be distributed back to the insured party over time.
Annuity contracts traditionally provide a guaranteed distribution of आय over समय, ऐसे as via फिक्स्ड भुगतान, जबतक the मौत of the व्यक्ति or व्यक्तियों नामित in the अनुबंध or जबतक a final date, whichever comes first.
However, the majority of आधुनिक annuity ग्राहक उपयोग annuities तभी to accumulate निधि फ़्री of income and capital gains taxes and to later take lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature.
अध्यक्ष बराक Obama.
Barack Obama साथ उसके पहला परम् अदालत nominee, Sonia Sotomayor.
Following is a list of सब संयुक्त राज्य संघीय न्यायाधीशों नियुक्त by अध्यक्ष Barack Obama during his presidency.
As of April 30, 2013, 187 Obama nominees to आलेख iii judgeships have महरूम पुष्टि by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट, namely दो justices to the Supreme Court of the United States, 35 judges to the United States courts of appeals and 150 judges to the United States district courts.
25 further nominations हैं फिलहाल प्रतीक्षारत Senate action.
There are currently 16 vacancies on the United States Courts of Appeals, 67 vacancies on the United States district courts and 22 additional federal judiciary vacancies that हैं anticipated to occur पहले the समाप्त of ओबामा 's second term.
Obama has not made कोई recess नियुक्ति to the federal courts.
ओबामा रै बना दो nominations to the संयुक्त राज्य Court of International Trade, an Article III tribunal.
Obama also designated sitting judge Emily C. Hewitt of the United States अदालत of संघीय दावा, an आलेख i अदालत, to be मुख्य न्यायधीश of that court.
This is a list of airports in मैक्सिको, sorted by स्थान.
मैक्सिको रै परिचय 1,834 एयरपोर्ट, रैंकिंग 2nd in क्रमांक of airports in North America, and 3rd in the world.
Only major National और अंतरराष्ट्रीय एयरपोर्ट are shown.
Agency debt also known as an Agency bond is a security, प्रायः a बंध, जारी by a u.S. government-sponsored agency.
The offerings of these agencies are backed but not guaranteed by the US सरकारी चूंकि the एजेंसियों हैं निजी entities.
Some prominent issuers of these securities are Student Loan Marketing Association ( Sallie Mae ), Federal National Mortgage Association ( fannie mae ) और संघीय घर ऋण बंधक निगम ( फ्रेडी Mac ).
Agency securities are usually exempt इससे राज्य और लोकल कर, लकिन नहीं संघीय कर.
Agency debt is भी पुकारा an एजेंसी सुरक्षा.
the susquehanna भाप इलेक्ट्रिक Station, a boiling water reactor.
The reactors are located inside the rectangular containment इमारतें towards the सामने of the cooling towers.
तीन nuclear-powered अमरीकी warships, ( शीर्ष to नीचे ) नाभिकीय cruisers uss bainbridge और uss Long Beach with USS Enterprise the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in 1964.
Crew members are spelling out Einstein 's mass-energy equivalence सूत्र E = mc2 on the flight deck.
The Russian nuclear-powered हिमभंजक ns yamal on a 1994 संयुक्त expedition with the NSF.
Nuclear power is the उपयोग of sustained नाभिकीय परिवर्द्धन to generate heat and electricity.
Nuclear power plants provided about 5.7 % of the world 's energy और 13 % of the संसार 's विद्युत, in 2012.
In 2013, the IAEA report that there are 437 operational नाभिकीय शक्ति रिएक्टरों ( हालांकि नहीं सब हैं producing electricity ), in 31 countries.
In जोड, वहीँ हैं लगभग 140 नवल vessels using nuclear propulsion in operation, powered by some 180 reactors.
There is an ongoing बहस परिचय the उपयोग of नाभिकीय energy.
Proponents, such as the World Nuclear Association, the IAEA and पर्यावरणविद लिये नाभिकीय उर्जा contend कि नाभिकीय शक्ति is a चिरस्थायी उर्जा सोर्स that reduces carbon emissions.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, ऐसे as ग्रीनपीस अंतरराष्ट्रीय और nirs, मानना कि नाभिकीय power poses many threats to people and the environment.
Nuclear power plant accidents include the Chernobyl disaster ( 1986 ), फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति ( 2011 ), और the Three Mile Island accident ( 1979 ).
There have also been some nuclear-powered पनडुब्बी mishaps.
Research into सुरक्षा सुधार is continuing और नाभिकीय संलयन, believed to be safer, may be used in the future.
As of 2012, according to the IAEA, विश्वव्यापी वहीँ यहूद 68 सिविल नाभिकीय शक्ति reactors under construction in 15 countries.
In the us the पंक्तियां of लगभग हाफ इसके रिएक्टरों have been extended to 60 years, and plans to build another dozen are under serious consideration.
However, Japan 's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster prompted a rethink of nuclear उर्जा नीति in अनेक देशों.
Germany decided to close सब इसके रिएक्टरों by 2022, और Italy has banned nuclear power.
Following Fukushima, the International Energy Agency halved इसके अनुमान of अतिरिक्त नाभिकीय generating क्षमता to be built by 2035.
Photograph of the बर्लिन वॉल लिया इससे the West side.
The Wall was built in 1961 to prevent ईस्ट germans इससे fleeing from Communism.
It was an iconic symbol of the Cold युद्ध और इसके पतन in 1989 चिह्नित the समाप्त of the War.
The Cold War, often दिनाँक इससे 1947 to 1991, थी a sustained राज्य of राजनैतिक और सैन्य टेंशन between powers in the Western Bloc, dominated by the United States with NATO among its allies, and powers in the Eastern Bloc, dominated by the Soviet Union along with the Warsaw Pact.
This began after the success of their temporary wartime alliance against Nazi जर्मनी, leaving the ussr और the us as दो superpowers साथ profound आर्थिक और राजनैतिक मतभेद.
A neutral faction arose with the Non-Aligned Movement founded by Egypt, India, and यूगोस्लाविया ; इस गुट अस्वीकृत संघ साथ either the us-led वेस्ट or the soviet-led East.
The Cold War was so named because the दो प्रमुख powers—each possessing नाभिकीय हथियार और thereby threatened साथ परस्पर assured destruction —never met in direct military combat.
Instead, in their संघर्ष लिये वैश्विक influence वे सगाई in जारी मनोवैज्ञानिक warfare and in regular indirect confrontations through proxy wars.
Cycles of relative calm would be followed by high टेंशन, जिससे could have led to world war.
The tensest times were during the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ), the Korean War ( 1950–1953 ), the Suez Crisis ( 1956 ), the बर्लिन संकट of 1961, the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट ( 1962 ), the वियतनाम युद्ध ( 1959–1975 ), the योम kippur युद्ध ( 1973 ), the सोवियत युद्ध in अफगानिस्तान ( 1979–1989 ), the सोवियत downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 ( 1983 ), and the `` Able Archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ).
The conflict was expressed through military coalitions, strategic conventional force deployments, extensive aid to client states, espionage, massive propaganda campaigns, conventional and nuclear arms races, appeals to न्यूट्रल राष्ट्र, फंसने at खेल कार्यक्रम ( in particular the ओलंपिक ), और technological प्रतियोगिताओं such as the Space Race.
The US and USSR became involved in political and military विरोध in the तीसरा संसार देशों of लैटिन अमेरिका, अफ़्रीकी, the मध्य ईस्ट, and Southeast Asia.
To alleviate the risk of a potential nuclear युद्ध, दोनो पहलू sought राहत of राजनैतिक तनाव through détente in the 1970s.
In the 1980s, the United States increased diplomatic, military, and economic pressures on the सोवियत संघ, at a समय जब the कम्युनिस्ट राज्य was already suffering from economic stagnation.
In the mid-1980s, the new Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization '', 1987 ) और ग्लास्नोस्त ( `` openness '', ca. 1985 ).
Pressures for national independence grew stronger in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, विशेषकर Poland.
They पहुँचे a तोड़कर पाइंट जब गोर्बाचेव refused to उपयोग Soviet troops to support the faltering government of East Germany in late 1989.
Within weeks all the satellite states broke free from Moscow in a शांतिपूर्ण वेव of revolutions ( वहीँ थी कुछ violence in Romania ).
The pressures escalated inside the Soviet Union, where Communism गिरी और the ussr थी formally dissolved in लेट 1991.
The United States remained as the संसार 's तभी महाशक्ति.
The Cold War and its events have left a significant legacy, and it is often referred to in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति, विशेषकर in मीडिया featuring विषयवस्तु of espionage and the threat of nuclear warfare.
Pikes Peak State पार्क is a राज्य पार्क of आयोवा, यूएसए, featuring a bluff निहार the Upper Mississippi River opposite the confluence of the Wisconsin River.
The park is संचालित by the आयोवा विभाग of Natural Resources.
It is nearly a हजार एकड़ ( 4 km2 ) in extent.
the निकटतम नगर is McGregor, Iowa.
Iowa Highway 76 लगभग defines इसके उत्तरी boundary.
It gets इसके नाम इससे the आयोवा अवतार of pikes शिखर, a विशेषकर ऊँची पाइंट निहार the gorge of the Upper Mississippi, and like Pikes Peak in Colorado, is named for Zebulon Pike.
वहीँ हैं चढ़ाई trails, campgrounds and RV facilities.
Mountain bikes are permitted in निश्चित portions of the park.
Aside from recreational development, the land in the पार्क थी never साफ और to a विशाल extent remains as it was before the advent of white settlement.
It is part of a larger complex of parks, reserves and refuges which include Effigy Mounds National स्मारक, the विभिन्न components of the पीला नदी राज्य वन, the विशाल अपर मिसिसिपी नदी नेशनल वन्यजीव और मछली शरण और much छोटी, much less well known Driftless Area National Wildlife Refuge.
The Northeast Iowa Legacy Trail System is undergoing development, और होगा कनेक्ट तत्व of ये साइट.
Zac Brown Band is an American country/folk band आधारित in अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया.
The lineup consists of Zac Brown ( lead vocals, guitar ), Jimmy De Martini ( fiddle, vocals ), John Driskell Hopkins ( bass गिटार, vocals ), coy bowles ( गिटार, keyboards ), क्रिस fryar ( ड्रम ), मिट्टी कुक ( गिटार, keyboards, mandolin, steel guitar, vocals ), and Daniel de los Reyes ( percussion ).
the बैंड रै toured throughout the संयुक्त राज्य, सहित a slot on the 2009 and 2010 Bonnaroo Music Festival.
They have also recorded five studio albums, and charted nine Number One singles on the Billboard country charts : `` मुर्गा fried ``, `` toes ``, `` राजमार्ग 20 सवारी ``, `` फ़्री ``, `` as वो 's चलना दूर ``, `` colder मौसम ``, `` घुटना गहन ``, `` रखना me in दिमाग ``, और `` अलविदा in उसके आँखें `` in जोड to the singles `` Whatever It Is `` and `` No Hurry ``, which peaked at number 2 on the same chart.
Talk radio is a radio format containing चर्चा परिचय topical issues.
Most shows are regularly hosted by a single व्यक्तिगत, और प्रायः विशेषता साक्षात्कार साथ a क्रमांक of different guests.
बात रेडियो typically शामिल an तत्व of श्रोता भागीदारी, प्रायः by प्रसारण सजीव बातचीत between the host and listeners who `` call in '' ( usually via telephone ) to the show.
Listener contributions हैं प्रायः screened by a दिखाएँ 's निर्माता ( s ) in अनुक्रम to अधिकतम audience interest and, in the case of commercial talk radio, attract advertisers.
Generally, the shows are व्यवस्थित into खण्ड, प्रत्येक अलग by a ठहराना लिये विज्ञापन ; however, in पब्लिक or non-commercial radio, music is sometimes played in place of commercials to separate the program segments.
Variations of talk रेडियो शामिल रूढ़िवादी talk, hot talk, liberal talk and sports talk.
While talk radio has historically been associated with AM/FM, starting around 2005 the प्रौद्योगिकी लिये internet-based talk-radio shows became लागत प्रभावी in the form of podcasts.
Now, it is possible लिये an व्यक्तिगत to उपयोग a किस्में of सेवाएं to मेजबान an internet-based talk-radio दिखाएँ बगैर carriage by a traditional radio station.
In addition TV programming from talk and news outlets such as बीबीसी, सीएनएन, ब्लूमबर्ग और फॉक्स हैं अभी प्रायः उपलब्धियाँ expanding the world of talk radio further.
Talk radio listening is now enjoyed not only on radios, but a wide variety of other devices and services including pcs using itunes, स्टेशन निर्देशिका ऐसे as tunein, दिखाएँ निर्देशिका स्मार्टफ़ोन साथ ऐप्स ऐसे as stitcher.
Hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the परिवार hippidae, containing the following species:
hippa adactyla Fabricius, 1787
hippa admirabilis ( Thallwitz, 1892 )
Hippa alcimede ( de man, 1902 )
Hippa australis hale, 1927
Hippa carcineutes holthuis & मैनिंग, 1970
Hippa celaeno ( de man, 1896 )
Hippa granulatus ( borradaile, 1904 )
Hippa hirtipes ( दाना, 1852 )
hippa इंडिका haig, मुरुगन & Balakrishnan Nair, 1986
hippa marmorata ( Hombron & Jacquinot, 1846 )
hippa ovalis ( A. milne-edwards, 1862 )
Hippa picta ( heller, 1861 )
Hippa strigillata ( stimpson, 1860 )
Hippa testudinaria ( herbst, 1791 )
Hippa truncatifrons ( Miers, 1878 )
It is closely related to the genus Emerita, और प्रजाति have प्रायः महरूम transferred between the दो genera.
Jakarta ( ), officially known as the Special Capital प्रदेश of जकार्ता ( ), is the पूंजी and largest city of Indonesia.
Located on the northwest coast of Java, Jakarta is the country 's economic, cultural and राजनैतिक केन्द्र, और साथ a जनसांख्यिकी of 10,187,595 as of नवम्बर 2011, it is the सबसे populous नगर in Indonesia and in Southeast Asia, and is the thirteenth most populated city in the world.
The official metropolitan area, known as Jabodetabek ( a name formed by combining the initial syllables of जकार्ता, bogor, depok, tangerang और bekasi ), is the दूसरी largest in the संसार, yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue beyond it.
Jakarta is listed as a global city in the 2008 वैश्वीकरण और संसार शहरों पढ़ाई समूह और संजाल ( gawc ) research.
and रै an क्षेत्रफल of.
This area has population of खूब over 28 लाख, बनाना it एक of the संसार 's largest conurbations in terms of number of inhabitants.
In 2011, Jakarta ranked 17th among the संसार 's 200 largest शहरों, a जम्प इससे इसके 2007 ranking of 171.
जकार्ता रै grown अधिक rapidly than Kuala Lumpur, Beijing and Bangkok.
Established in the चौथी सदी, the नगर became an महत्वपूर्ण trading port for the Kingdom of Sunda.
It was the de facto capital of the Dutch East Indies ( when it was known as Batavia ) and has continued as the capital of Indonesia since the देश 's स्वतंत्रता थी घोषित in 1945.
the नगर is the सीट of the ASEAN Secretariat.
Jakarta is served by the Soekarno–Hatta International Airport, Halim Perdanakusuma International Airport, और tanjung priok harbour ; it is कनेक्ट by अनेक intercity और commuter railways, and served by several bus lines running on reserved busways.
A typical घर एयर कंडीशनिंग खिड़की unit.
Air conditioning is the process of altering the गुण of एयर ( primarily तापमान और आर्द्रता ) to अधिक favourable conditions.
More generally, air conditioning can refer to any form of technological कूलिंग, हीटिंग, वेंटिलेशन, or कीटाणुशोधन कि modifies the condition of air.
An air conditioner ( often referred to as air con, AC or A/C, and not to be confused with the abbreviation for प्रत्यावर्ती वर्तमान ) is a प्रमुख or घर appliance, प्रणाली, or यांत्रिकी designed to बदलें the एयर तापमान और आर्द्रता भीतर an क्षेत्रफल ( प्रयुक्त लिये cooling and sometimes heating depending on the air properties at a given time ).
The cooling is typically done using a सरल प्रशीतन साईकिल, लकिन sometimes वाष्पीकरण is प्रयुक्त, commonly लिये सुकून cooling in buildings and motor vehicles.
In construction, a complete प्रणाली of हीटिंग, वेंटिलेशन और एयर कंडीशनिंग is referred to as `` HVAC ``.
`` 6 Foot 7 पैर '' ( भी styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a सोंग by अमरीकी rapper Lil Wayne featuring label mate, Cory Gunz.
It is लिया इससे उसके नवीं स्टुडियो album, Tha Carter IV ( 2011 ).
It was officially released on itunes on दिसम्बर 16, 2010.
It was produced by `` a milli `` निर्माता बांग्लादेश.
The song samples `` Day-O ( the banana नाव सोंग ) `` by हैरी Belafonte.
DC Talk ( styled as dc बात ), is a ग्रैमी -winning Christian rap trio.
The group थी formed in lynchburg, वर्जिनिया in 1987 by टोबी McKeehan, Michael Tait, and Kevin Max Smith.
They have released five major studio albums साथ : dc बात ( 1989 ), nu थांग ( 1990 ), फ़्री at पिछला ( 1992 ), यीशु freak ( 1995 ), और Supernatural ( 1998 ).
In 2002, the Encyclopedia of Contemporary Christian Music called dc बात `` the सबसे लोकप्रिय overtly ईसाई अधिनियम of सब समय. ''
In 2000, the group released an EP titled Solo which contained दो सोलो गीतों इससे प्रत्येक member.
Since कि समय, dc बात रै महरूम on an indefinite hiatus, and the three band members have each led solo careers.
They have performed और अंकित व्यक्तिगत गीतों साथ several times during the 2000s, although the group never officially reunited or disbanded.
The group 's musical style evolved significantly throughout उनके career.
Their first two रिलीज, dc बात और nu थांग, were of the hip hop genre.
DC Talk 's third album, Free at पिछला, भी मुख्यतः took influence इससे the हिप हॉप स्टाइल, हालांकि उनके म्यूज़िक began taking on a rock sound.
The trio 's last two एल्बम, यीशु freak और अलौकिक, were predominantly pop rock.
The Bible is a compilation of many shorter books लिखा at अलग टाइम्स और बाद समवेत into the biblical canon.
All but the shortest of these books have been विभाजित into अध्याय, generally a पेज or so in लंबाई, since the early 13th century.
Since the mid-16th सदी, प्रत्येक अध्याय रै महरूम further विभाजित into `` verses '' of a few short lines or sentences.
Sometimes a sentence spans more than one verse, as in the मामला of, और sometimes वहीँ is अधिक than एक वाक्य in a single verse, as in the case of.
As the chapter and verse divisions were not part of the असली ग्रन्थ, वे रूप भाग of the paratext of the बाइबल.
The Jewish divisions of the Hebrew text differ at विभिन्न अंक इससे those प्रयुक्त by Christians.
For instance, in Jewish tradition, the ascriptions to many Psalms are regarded as स्वतंत्र आयतें, बनाना 116 अधिक आयतें, whereas the स्थापित ईसाई अभ्यास is to गिनती और क्रमांक प्रत्येक psalm ascription together with the first verse following it.
Some chapter divisions also occur in different places, e.g. in यहूदी bibles is गिने as in ईसाई translations.
An index ( plural : indexes ) is a list of words or वाक्यांश ( 'headings ' ) और संबद्ध संकेतक ( 'लोकेटरs ' ) to where useful material relating to that heading can be found in a document.
In a परंपरागत back-of-the-book अनुक्रमणिका the headings होगा शामिल names of people, places and events, and concepts selected by a person as being relevant and of interest to a possible reader of the book.
The संकेतक हैं typically page numbers, paragraph numbers or section numbers.
In a library catalog the words are authors, titles, विषय headings, etc., और the pointers are call numbers.
Internet search engines, such as Google, and full text searching help provide access to information but are not as चयनात्मक as an अनुक्रमणिका, as वे provide non-relevant कड़ी, और may मिस प्रासंगिक सूचना if it is नहीं phrased in exactly the way they expect.
In United States financial regulation, a suspicious activity report ( or SAR ) is a report made by a financial institution to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ( FinCEN ), an एजेंसी of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of the राजकोष, regarding संदिग्ध or potentially संदिग्ध कार्यकलाप.
फेसबुक on the ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service, whose name stems from the colloquial name for the book given to students at the start of the अकादमिक साल by कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों administrations in the संयुक्त राज्य to सहायता विद्यार्थी मिलेंगी to जान प्रत्येक other.
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his college roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी एडुआर्डो saverin, एंड्रयू mccollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
The website 's membership was initially limited by the founders to Harvard students, लकिन थी विस्तारित to अन्य कॉलेजों in the बोस्टन क्षेत्रफल, the आइवी लीग, और स्टैनफोर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों.
It धीरे added support लिये विद्यार्थी at विभिन्न अन्य विश्वविद्यालयों पहले खोलने to high school students, and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over.
फेसबुक अभी allows कोई उपयोक्ता जो घोषित themselves to be at least 13 years old to become registered users of the site.
Users must register before using the site, after which they may create a personal प्रोफ़ाइल, add अन्य उपयोक्ता as मित्रों, and exchange messages, including automatic notifications when they update their profile.
Additionally, users may जुड़ें common-interest उपयोक्ता समूह, व्यवस्थित by कार्यस्थल, स्कूल or कॉलेज, or अन्य characteristics, and categorize their friends into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends ''.
As of सितंबर 2012, फेसबुक has over one billion active users.
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey, वहीँ हैं 7.5 लाख children अंतर्गत 13 साथ खाते और 5 लाख अंतर्गत 10, violating the site 's terms of service.
In May 2005, Accel partners invested $ 12.7 लाख in फेसबुक, और जिम breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the pot.
A January 2009 Compete.com study क्रमित फेसबुक as the सबसे प्रयुक्त सोशल networking service by worldwide monthly active users.
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' सूची, saying, `` कैसा on धरती किया we stalk हमारी exes, remember our co-workers ' birthdays, bug our friends, and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics, such as Facebook detox, राज्य कि फेसबुक रै turned into a नेशनल obsession in the संयुक्त राज्य, resulting in vast amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism.
quantcast estimates फेसबुक रै 138.9 million monthly unique U.S. visitors in May 2011.
According to Social Media आज, in अप्रैल 2010 an अनुमानित 41.6 % ( 129.5 लाख ) of the u.S. population had a Facebook account.
Nevertheless, Facebook 's मार्केट विकास प्रारंभ to स्टाल in कुछ regions, साथ the साईट खोने 7 million active users in the United States and Canada in May 2011.
Facebook आखिरकार दायर लिये an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering on February 1, 2012, and was headquartered in Menlo Park, California.
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the पब्लिक और व्यापार on the नैस्डैक on May 18, 2012.
सल्फोनेमाइड कार्यात्मक group
hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide and a thiazide.
furosemide is a सल्फोनेमाइड, but not a thiazide.
Sulfonamide or sulphonamide is the basis of अनेक समूह of drugs.
The असली जीवाणुरोधी sulfonamides ( sometimes पुकारा sulfa दवाएँ or sulpha drugs ) are synthetic antimicrobial agents that contain the sulfonamide group.
Some sulfonamides are also devoid of जीवाणुरोधी कार्यकलाप, e.g., the anticonvulsant sultiame.
The sulfonylureas और thiazide diuretics हैं नए ड्रग समूह आधारित on the antibacterial sulfonamides.
Sulfa allergies are common, hence medications containing sulfonamides हैं विहित carefully.
It is important to make a distinction between sulfa drugs and other sulfur-containing drugs and additives, such as sulfates और sulfites, जिससे हैं chemically unrelated to the सल्फोनेमाइड समूह, और do नहीं कारण the वही hypersensitivity प्रतिक्रियाएँ देखी in the sulfonamides.
इस is a सूची of वर्ण इससे George Lopez.
Domestic geese ( Anser आंसर domesticus or आंसर cygnoides ) हैं domesticated धूसर geese ( either ग्रेलैग geese or swan geese ) रखा as मुर्गीपालन लिये their meat, eggs, and down feathers since ancient times.
30 Seconds to Mars is an अमरीकी चट्टान band from Los Angeles, formed in 1998.
Since 2007, the band has consisted of actor Jared Leto ( lead vocals, rhythm guitar, songwriter ), शैनन leto ( ड्रम, percussion ) और tomo miličević ( lead guitar, keyboards ).
Following the departure of Matt Wachter ( now of Angels & Airwaves ) in 2007, Tim Kelleher became the bassist लिये the समूह, performing सजीव तभी साथ दोनो jared और miličević रिकॉर्डिंग बास लिये स्टुडियो रिकार्डिंग, while Braxton Olita ( keyboards ) was added to the touring lineup in 2009.
Previously, the समूह भी प्रदर्शित guitarists solon bixler ( अभी of ग्रेट Northern ) and Kevin Drake ( now of Polaroid Kiss ).
To date, 30 Seconds to Mars have released three studio albums – 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2002 ), A Beautiful Lie ( 2005 ), This Is War ( 2009 ) and three extended plays – एओएल सत्र अंडरकवर ( 2007 ), to the किनारे of the धरती ( 2008 ), and MTV Unplugged : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011 ).
30 Seconds to Mars ' music has been associated mostly with neo-prog, progressive metal and post-grunge, but वे have भी शामिल भावनाएं, screamo, स्पेस चट्टान और synthrock into their music.
They have been compared to गुलाबी floyd ( जो यहूद an influence on उनके कार्य ) और औजार क्युकी of उनके उपयोग of philosophical and spiritual lyrics, concept albums and their use of experimental music.
A Christmas Story is a 1983 American Christmas comedy film based on the छोटी कहानियां और semi-fictional उपाख्यानों of लेखक और raconteur जां गड़रिये, आधारित on उसके किताब in परमेश्वर we Trust, All Others Pay Cash, with some elements derived from Wanda Hickey 's Night of Golden Memories.
It was directed by bob क्लार्क.
The film has since become a holiday classic और is दिखाया numerous टाइम्स on टेलीविज़न दौरान the Christmas season on the network TBS, often in a 24-hour marathon.
In 2012, the film was selected for preservation in the National फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री by the पुस्तकालयों of कॉंग्रेस लिये होने `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
A Joe 's Crab Shack branch in सैन डिएगो, CA.
The building थी initially a rowing क्लबों और was later converted into the restaurant.
Joe 's Crab Shack is an अमरीकी कड़ी of beach-themed seafood कैज़ुअल डाइनिंग रेस्तरां owned by Ignite Restaurant Group.
Founded in Houston, Texas, the restaurant अभी operates स्थितियाँ सब आरपार the United States of America.
It serves seafood और अमरीकी भोजन.
The रेस्तरां भी have a तोहफा दूकान कि बिकता facetious t-shirts featuring phrases advertising Joe 's seafood choices.
It is based in ह्यूस्टन, टेक्सास.
New यॉर्क नगर क्रूज लाइनर टर्मिनल in नरक 's Kitchen at 52nd Street.
The New York Passenger Ship Terminal ( also known as the लक्ज़री लाइनर पंक्ति or मैनहटन क्रूज टर्मिनल or नई यॉर्क क्रूज Terminal ) is a terminal for ocean-going passenger ships on Manhattan 's west side.
The terminal consists of उत्तर नदी पियर 88, 90, 92 और 94 on the हडसन नदी between West 46th and West 54th Street.
( As a general नियम, बांध संख्याएँ in मैनहटन can be संकल्पित by adding 40 to the corresponding cross-street. )
जहाजों अभी डॉक at पियर 88, 90 and 92.
Pier 94 on the उत्तर पक्ष is now used for exhibition space.
Pier 86, once used by United States Lines, is अभी घर to the uss intrepid.
In 2003, the terminal संभाला 900,000 यात्री.
The city is forecasting कि 1.5 लाख होगा उपयोग the टर्मिनल by 2017.
The पियर हैं long and apart.
They were first completed in 1935 to replace the चेल्सी पियर as the नगर 's लक्ज़री लाइनर टर्मिनल.
The new terminal was built to handle बडे जहाजों कि था outgrown the Chelsea Piers.
The piers were renovated in 1970 और हैं फिलहाल undergoing another $ 150 million renovation.
The renovated plans call for it to हैंडल तीन विशाल ships at a time.
In doing renovations, the नगर is also considering decommissioning Pier 92.
Logo of the नई यॉर्क क्रूज Terminal.For
decades the terminal was the तभी ocean-going यात्री टर्मिनल in New York harbor.
With an upsurge in cruise जलयान ट्रैफ़िक और the टर्मिनल 's क्षमता to हैंडल comfortably तभी तीन विशाल जहाजों at a समय, दो नई terminals have खोली in the हार्बर — the केप स्वतंत्रता क्रूज बंदरगाहों खोली in 2004 in Bayonne, New Jersey ( used by Royal Caribbean Cruise Line, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Cruises ), and the Brooklyn Cruise Terminal ( used by the Queen Mary 2 and other ships of the Carnival Corporation cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in Brooklyn, New York.
The West Side Highway takes a small jog east from the piers to below West 42nd Street because when the terminal was निर्मित जमीन था to be लिया दूर इससे मैनहटन to allow for longer piers.
The US Army Corps of Engineers, who control the waterfront dimension, होता नहीं extend the pierhead लकीर दूर into the नदी, so the नगर विस्तारित the बांध by cutting away at the land.
The city earlier did this for the Chelsea Piers ; however in चेल्सी तभी लैंडफिल थी लिया away.
At the यात्री टर्मिनल वास्तविक Manhattan schist was taken away.
From downstream in the नदी
Many major passenger ships have docked there, सहित the rms महारानी मरियम 2 और स्वतंत्रता of the Seas, before the Brooklyn and Bayonne terminals opened.
The SS Normandie caught fire and subsequently capsized at इसके बांध 88 berth दौरान World War II.
The Normandie, renamed uss lafayette, झूठ capsized in the frozen मिट्टी at Pier 88 in the winter of 1942
Norwegian Cruise Line 's soon to be नवीनतम जलयान the नॉर्वेजियाई breakaway होगा पाल year-round आउट of the New York Passenger Ship Terminal.
The city will spend $ 4 million to renovate and upgrade the cruise टर्मिनल to accommodate the ship.
This is an overview of the नियमित, पुनरावर्ती, और अन्य वर्ण of the TV series NCIS.
Christian right is a term used in the United States to describe right-wing ईसाई राजनैतिक समूह कि हैं characterized by उनके दमदार support of socially conservative policies.
Christian conservatives principally seek to apply their understanding of the teachings of christianity to राजनीती और पब्लिक नीति by proclaiming the मान of those teachings and/or by seeking to use those teachings to influence law and public policy.
In the U.S., the ईसाई सही is an अनौपचारिक गठबन्धन formed around a कोर of धर्मान्तरण protestants कि draws `` support इससे politically conservative Catholics, Jews, Mormons, and occasionally secularists '' who share their goals.
The movement has its roots in अमरीकी राजनीती going वापस as दूर the 1940s and has been especially influential since the 1970s.
Their influence draws, in part, from grassroots सक्रियता as खूब as उनके फ़ोकस on social issues and ability to motivate the electorate around those issues.
The Christian right is notable today for advancing socially conservative positions on issues including school दुआ, स्टेम कोशिका शोध, समलैंगिकता, निरोधक, गर्भपात, and pornography.
Although the Christian right is usually associated with the U.S., the गति रै महरूम a कुंजी फ़ैक्टर in the राजनीती of कनाडा, the नीदरलैंड्स, उत्तरी आयरलैंड और ऑस्ट्रेलिया, among others.
Far East Movement ( stylized as Far★East Movement or abbreviated fm ) is an अमरीकी hip hop band quartet based in Los Angeles.
The group formed in 2003 and consists of kev nish ( केविन nishimura ), prohgress ( जेम्स roh ), j-splif ( Jae Choung ), and DJ Virman ( Virman Coquia ).
दूर ईस्ट गति 's पहला अर्जी to कीर्ति थी उनके सोंग `` गोलाकार गोलाकार '' प्रदर्शित in the हॉलीवुड फिल्म, the तेज़ and the Furious : Tokyo Drift, and its subsequent soundtrack, video game and DVD.
Since `` Round Round '', the group has been featured on various network shows including,, Entourage, गपशप लड़की, और finishing the खेल ( a प्रदर्शित film at Sundance 2007 ).
Their single `` Like a g6 `` hit क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 Chart and on iTunes as well in late October 2010.
Far East Movement also has the distinction of being the पहला asian-american समूह to earn a # 1 hit on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100 in the United States.
LR44 is the IEC designation for an alkaline 1.5 volt button cell, commonly used in small LED flashlights, डिजिटल thermometers, calculators, calipers, घड़ियाँ, clocks, toys and laser pointers.
lr44 क्षारीय cell
The battery nomenclature is defined by the International Electrotechnical आयोग ( आईईसी ) in इसके 60086-3 मानक ( प्राथमिक बैटरी, भाग 3 देखें बैटरी ).
The letter L indicates the electrochemical प्रणाली प्रयुक्त ; a जस्ता ऋणात्मक एलेक्ट्रोड, मैंगनीज dioxide depolarizer and positive electrode, and an alkaline electrolyte.
R44 indicates a round cell 11.4±0.2 mm diameter and 5.2±0.2 mm height as defined by the IEC standard 60086.
Manufacturers have their own part numbers for आईईसी प्रकार lr44 बैटरी including:
LR44, LR44G, lr44gd, lr44h
lr1154, l1154, l1154c, l1154f, L1154G, L1154H
6135-99-792-8475 ( NSN )
1166a
AG13, A613, ag14, ag-14, g13a, g13-a
157, 303, 357
A76, GDA76, gp76a, gpa7, gpa75, gpa76, GPS76A,
1128MP, 208-904, A-76, CA18, CA19, CR44, D76A, KA, ka76, ms76h, px76a, px675a, rpx675, rw82, sb-f9, V13GA
4.5-volt, D, C, AA, AAA, AAAA, a23, 9-volt, cr2032 और LR44 batteries
Other प्रकार of बैटरी हैं or were made in the R44 size.
formerly, पारा बैटरी यहूद बना as बटन cells ( types MR44 and NR44 ).
Zinc-air batteries प्रकार pr44 आवश्यकता एयर to work.
Silver-oxide बैटरी प्रकार sr44 may provide अतिरिक्त क्षमता compared to lr44 प्रकार लकिन have slightly different voltage characteristics.
Performance of a यंत्र meant to उपयोग a silver-oxide बैटरी may be degraded with substitution of LR44 types.
Manufacturer 's संख्याएँ लिये चांदी ऑक्साइड r44 आकार कोशिकाएं include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240 ( NSN )
sr1154
1107so
1131sop
sg13
s76
epx76 ( energizer )
303/357 ( d357h )
Hurricane Katrina was the deadliest और सबसे destructive अटलांटिक hurricane of the 2005 अटलांटिक hurricane season.
It was the costliest natural विपत्ति, as खूब as एक of the पाँच deadliest hurricanes, in the इतिहास of the United States.
Among recorded अटलांटिक hurricanes, it थी the छठे strongest overall.
At least 1,833 people died in the hurricane and subsequent floods, बनाना it the deadliest u.S. hurricane चूंकि the 1928 okeechobee hurricane ; कुल प्रॉपर्टी क्षति थी estimated at $ 81 billion ( 2005 USD ), nearly triple the damage brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992.
Hurricane Katrina formed over the Bahamas on August 23, 2005 और crossed दक्षिणी फ्लोरिडा as a मॉडरेट श्रेणी 1 hurricane, causing कुछ मौतों और बाढ़ वहीँ पहले strengthening rapidly in the Gulf of Mexico.
The hurricane strengthened to a श्रेणी 5 hurricane over the गरम गल्फ जल, लकिन weakened पहले बनाना इसके दूसरी landfall as a श्रेणी 3 hurricane on the morning of Monday, August 29 in southeast Louisiana.
It caused कठोर विनाश साथ the गल्फ coast इससे सेंट्रल फ्लोरिडा to Texas, much of it due to the storm surge.
The most significant number of deaths occurred in New Orleans, louisiana, जिससे flooded as the तटबन्ध प्रणाली catastrophically failed, in many cases hours after the storm had moved inland.
आखिरकार 80 % of the नगर और विशाल tracts of neighboring parishes became flooded, and the floodwaters lingered for weeks.
However, the worst property damage occurred in coastal areas, ऐसे as सब मिसिसिपी beachfront कस्बों, जिससे यहूद flooded over 90 % in घंटों, as नौकाएँ और कसीनो barges rammed इमारतें, pushing cars and houses inland, with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) from the beach.
The hurricane surge protection failures in New ऑरलियन्स हैं माना the worst सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी विपत्ति in u.S. इतिहास और prompted a lawsuit against the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ( USACE ), the designers and builders of the levee system as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965.
Responsibility for the failures and flooding was laid squarely on the फौज corps in जनवरी 2008 by न्यायधीश stanwood डुवल, u.S. ज़िला अदालत, लकिन the संघीय एजेंसी could नहीं be held financially liable due to sovereign immunity in the Flood Control Act of 1928.
There was also an investigation of the responses from federal, राज्य और लोकल सरकारें, resulting in the इस्तीफा of संघीय आपात प्रबन्धन एजेंसी ( fema ) निदेशक Michael D. Brown, and of New Orleans Police Department ( NOPD ) Superintendent Eddie Compass.
Several agencies including the United States Coast Guard ( USCG ), नेशनल hurricane बीच ( nhc ), और नेशनल मौसम सेवा ( NWS ) were commended for their actions.
They provided accurate hurricane weather ट्रैकिंग forecasts साथ sufficient सीसे time.
Even the सबसे insistent appeals इससे नेशनल, राज्य और लोकल पब्लिक officials to residents to evacuate before the storm did not warn that the levees could breach and fail.
U.S. कर्ज़ इससे 1940 to 2011.
Red lines indicate the `` debt held by the public '' और ब्लैक लाइनों indicate the कुल नेशनल कर्ज़ or सकल पब्लिक debt.
the अंतर is the `` intragovernmental कर्ज़, '' which includes obligations to government programs such as Social Security.
stated as a सूत्र, नेशनल कर्ज़ = Debt held by the Public + Intragovernmental Debt.
the दूसरी फलक shows the दो कर्ज़ आंकड़े as a प्रतिशत of U.S. GDP ( dollar value of U.S. economic production for that year ).
The top panel is deflated so प्रत्येक साल is in 2010 dollars.
The United States public कर्ज़ is the धन उधार by the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य through the issuing of securities by the Treasury and other federal government agencies.
US public debt consists of दो घटकs:
Debt held by the public includes Treasury securities held by investors बाहर the संघीय सरकारी, सहित कि आयोजित by individuals, corporations, the संघीय आरक्षित System and foreign, state and local governments.
Debt held by government accounts or intragovernmental कर्ज़ शामिल non-marketable राजकोष प्रतिभूति आयोजित in खाते administered by the संघीय government that are owed to program beneficiaries, such as the Social Security Trust Fund.
Debt held by सरकारी खाते represents the संचयी surpluses, including interest earnings, of these accounts that have been invested in Treasury securities.
Public debt increases or decreases as a परिणाम of the सालाना एकीकृत बजट deficit or surplus.
The federal government budget deficit or surplus is the अंतर between सरकारी रसीदें और बिता, ignoring intra-governmental transfers.
However, some spending that is excluded from the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) also adds to the debt.
Historically, the us पब्लिक कर्ज़ as a share of जीडीपी increased दौरान युद्धों and recessions, and subsequently declined.
For example, debt held by the public as a share of जीडीपी peaked बस बाद संसार युद्ध ii ( 113 % of जीडीपी in 1945 ), लकिन तब गिरी over the following 30 years.
In recent decades, however, large budget deficits and the resulting increases in कर्ज़ have led to चिंता परिचय the long-term स्थिरता of the संघीय government 's fiscal policies.
on 2 अप्रैल 2013, कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक थी लगभग $ 11.959 trillion or about 75 % of GDP.
intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 खरब, giving a संयुक्त total public debt of $ 16.805 trillion.
As of January 2013, $ 5.6 trillion or approximately 47 % of the debt held by the public was owned by foreign investors, the largest of जिससे यहूद the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन और जापानी at बस over $ 1.1 trillion each.
in बास्केट, an assist is attributed to a खिलाड़ी जो गुजरता the बॉल to a teammate in a रास्ता that leads to a score by field goal, meaning that he or she was `` assisting '' in the basket.
वहीँ is कुछ निर्णय शामिल in deciding whether a passer should be credited with an assist.
An assist can be scored for the passer even if the player who receives the pass makes a बास्केट बाद dribbling the ball.
However, the असली परिभाषा of an assist किया नहीं शामिल ऐसे परिस्थितियों, so the तुलना of assist statistics across eras is a complex matter.
Only the pass directly before the score may be counted as an assist, so no अधिक than एक assist can be अंकित प्रति field goal ( unlike in other sports, such as ice hockey ).
A pass that leads to a shooting foul and scoring by free throws does not count as an assist in the NBA, but does in FIBA play ( तभी एक assist is awarded प्रति नियत of फ़्री throws in जिससे at तनिक एक free throw is made ).
Point guards tend to मिलेंगी the सबसे assists प्रति खेल ( apg ), as their role is primarily that of a passer and ballhandler.
Centers tend to get fewer assists, but centers साथ शुभ मंजिल उपस्थिति और अदालत vision can dominate a team by assisting.
Being inside the कुंजी, the बीच प्रायः रै the बेहतरीन कोण और the बेहतरीन स्थिति लिये `` बर्तन '' और अन्य छोटी passes in the scoring area.
Center Wilt चेम्बरलेन led the एनबीए in assists in 1968.
A strong center with inside-scoring prowess, ऐसे as पूर्व एनबीए बीच hakeem olajuwon, can भी be an प्रभावी assistor क्युकी the defense 's double-teaming tends to open up offense in the form of shooters.
The NBA single-game assist रिकार्ड is 30, आयोजित by स्कॉट skiles of the ऑरलैंडो जादू विरूद्ध the Denver Nuggets, on December 30, 1990.
The NBA record for most career assists is आयोजित by जॉन स्टॉकटन साथ 15,806.
The मिल or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the uk, जब discussing प्रॉपर्टी taxes in the United States, or previously in Cyprus and Malta ) is a now-abstract unit of currency used sometimes in accounting.
In the United States, it is a notional ईकाई समतुल्य to of a संयुक्त राज्य dollar ( a tenth of a cent ).
In the United Kingdom it थी प्रस्तावित दौरान the दशकों of चर्चा on the decimalization of the pound as a division of the pound sterling.
Several other मुद्राएँ प्रयुक्त the मिल, such as the Maltese lira.
The पद आता इससे the लैटिन `` millesimum '', meaning `` thousandth part ''.
The Greco-Persian Wars ( also often called the Persian Wars ) were a series of विरोध between the हख़ामनी साम्राज्य of फारस और city-states of the हैलेनिक संसार कि प्रारंभ in 499 BC and lasted until 449 BC.
The collision between the fractious political world of the Greeks and the enormous empire of the फारसियों began जब सायरस the ग्रेट conquered ionia in 547 BC.
struggling to नियम the independent-minded शहरों of Ionia, the Persians appointed tyrants to rule each of them.
This होता prove to be the सोर्स of much ट्रबल for the Greeks and Persians alike.
In 499 BC, the then tyrant of Miletus, Aristagoras, embarked on an expedition to जीतें the द्वीप of naxos, साथ पारसी support ; however, the expedition थी a क़हर और, pre-empting उसके dismissal, Aristagoras incited all of Hellenic Asia Minor into rebellion against the Persians.
This was the beginning of the आयोनियन विद्रोह, जिससे होता पिछला जबतक 493 bc, progressively drawing more regions of Asia Minor into the conflict.
Aristagoras secured military support from Athens and Eretria, and in 498 BC ये शक्तियां helped to कैप्चर और बर्न the पारसी क्षेत्रीय capital of Sardis.
The Persian king दारा the ग्रेट vowed to have बदला on एथेंस और Eretria for this act.
the विद्रोह जारी, साथ the दो sides effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC.
In 494 BC, the फारसियों regrouped, और attacked the epicentre of the revolt in Miletus.
At the Battle of Lade, the Ionians suffered a निर्णायक शिकस्त, और the विद्रोह collapsed, साथ the final members being stamped out the following year.
Seeking to secure his empire from further revolts and from the interference of the mainland Greeks, Darius embarked on a योजना to जीतें यूनानियों और to सजा एथेंस और eretria for burning Sardis.
The first Persian invasion of Greece began in 492 bc, साथ the पारसी सामान्य mardonius conquering thrace और macedon पहले अनेक mishaps forced an early end to the campaign.
In 490 BC a second फ़ोर्स थी भेजा to यूनानियों, इस समय आरपार the ईजियन समुद्र, अंतर्गत the कमांड of Datis and Artaphernes.
This expedition subjugated the cyclades, पहले besieging, capturing and razing Eretria.
However, while en route to attack Athens, the Persian force थी decisively पराजित by the athenians at the Battle of Marathon, ending Persian efforts for the time being.
Darius then began to plan to complete the conquest of यूनानियों, लकिन died in 486 bc और जिम्मेदारी लिये the conquest passed to his son Xerxes I.
In 480 BC, Xerxes personally led the second पारसी आक्रमण of यूनानियों साथ एक of the largest ancient armies ever assembled.
Victory over the 'allied ' यूनानी राज्य ( led by Sparta and Athens ) at the Battle of Thermopylae allowed the Persians to torch Athens and overrun most of Greece.
However, while seeking to destroy the संयुक्त यूनानी बेड़े, the फारसियों suffered a severe defeat at the Battle of Salamis.
The following साल, the confederated यूनानियों गई on the offensive, defeating the Persian army at the Battle of Plataea, and ending the invasion of Greece.
The allied Greeks followed up उनके कामयाबी by destroying the बाकी of the पारसी बेड़े at the Battle of Mycale, before expelling Persian garrisons from Sestos ( 479 BC ) and Byzantium ( 478 BC ).
The actions of the सामान्य pausanias at the घेरा of byzantium alienated अनेक of the यूनानी राज्य इससे the spartans, and the anti-Persian alliance was therefore reconstituted around Athenian leadership, as the so-called Delian League.
The Delian League continued to campaign against फारस लिये the अगला तीन दशकों, शुरूआत साथ the expulsion of the remaining Persian garrisons from Europe.
At the Battle of the eurymedon in 466 bc, the लीग जीती a double victory that finally secured freedom for the cities of Ionia.
However, the League 's भागीदारी in an मिश्र विद्रोह ( इससे 460–454 BC ) resulted in a disastrous defeat, and further campaigning was suspended.
A fleet was sent to Cyprus in 451 bc, लकिन हासिल छोटी, और जब it withdrew the Greco-Persian Wars drew to a quiet end.
Some historical स्त्रोत सुझाएँ the समाप्त of hostilities थी चिह्नित by a peace treaty between Athens and Persia, the so-called Peace of Callias.
Hooverville निकट पोर्टलैंड, Oregon
A `` Hooverville '' is the popular name for shanty कस्बों निर्मित by बेघर लोगों दौरान the ग्रेट अवसाद.
They were named after Herbert Hoover, who was President of the संयुक्त राज्य दौरान the onset of the अवसाद और widely blamed for it.
The term was coined by Charles Michelson, publicity मुख्य of the लोकतांत्रिक National Committee.
Matthew Michael Hasselbeck ( born September 25, 1975 ) is an American football क्वार्टरबैक लिये the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ).
He was drafted in the छठे गोलाकार of the 1998 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट by the Green Bay Packers.
After a season on the practice squad and दो सीज़न बैकिंग up ब्रेट favre, he थी traded to the Seattle Seahawks in 2001.
Hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003, and led सिएटल to छह playoff दिखावे और a सुपर कटोरी रूप ; he थी चयनित to three Pro Bowls and an All-Pro selection.
Following टेन सीज़न साथ the सीहॉक्स, hasselbeck joined the Tennessee Titans in 2011.
Hasselbeck then signed a contract with the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस in 2013 कम than 24 घंटों बाद being released by the Tennessee Titans.
ICT is inevitably related to the कंप्यूटर संजाल.
Information and Communications Technology or ( ICT ), is often used as an extended synonym for information technology ( it ), लकिन is a अधिक विशिष्ट पद कि तनावों the भूमिका of एकीकृत संचार और the संयोजन of दूरसंचार ( टेलीफोन लाइनों और बेतार सिग्नल ), कंप्यूटर as खूब as necessary enterprise software, middleware, storage, and audio-visual systems, which enable users to access, store, transmit, and manipulate information.
The phrase ICT had been used by academic researchers since the 1980s, but it became popular after it was used in a रपट to the uk सरकारी by डेनिस stevenson in 1997 और in the संशोधित नेशनल curriculum लिये इंग्लैण्ड, Wales and Northern Ireland in 2000.
The term ICT is अभी भी प्रयुक्त to refer to the अभिसरण of audio-visual और टेलीफोन संजाल साथ कंप्यूटर संजाल through a सिंगल cabling or link system.
There are large economic incentives ( huge cost savings due to elimination of the telephone network ) to merge the audio-visual, building प्रबन्धन और टेलीफोन संजाल साथ the कंप्यूटर संजाल प्रणाली using a सिंगल एकीकृत प्रणाली of cabling, सिग्नल वितरण and management.
The term infocommunications is प्रयुक्त in कुछ मामले as a shorter रूप of information and communication ( s ) technology.
In fact infocommunications is the विस्तार of दूरसंचार साथ सूचना processing and content handling functions on a common digital technology base.
For a comparison of ये और अन्य शर्तें, देखिए.
For ICT विकास अनुक्रमणिका around the world, see.
This is a सूची of वर्ण इससे George Lopez.
A schematic प्रस्तुतीकरण of the प्लम खीर मॉडल of the अणु ; in thomson 's गणितीय model the `` corpuscles '' ( or modern electrons ) were arranged non-randomly, in rotating rings
The current model of the sub-atomic ढांचा involves a dense nucleus surrounded by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
The plum pudding model of the atom by J. J. Thomson, who discovered the electron in 1897, थी प्रस्तावित in 1904 पहले the डिस्कवरी of the परमाणु केंद्रक in order to add the electron to the atomic model.
In this model, the अणु is रचित of electrons ( जिससे thomson स्टिल पुकारा `` corpuscles '', हालांकि G. J. stoney था प्रस्तावित कि अणु of विद्युत be पुकारा electrons in 1894 ) surrounded by a soup of positive charge to balance the electrons ' negative charges, like negatively charged `` plums `` surrounded by positively charged `` pudding ``.
The electrons ( as we know them today ) were thought to be positioned throughout the atom, but with many structures possible for positioning अनेक electrons, विशेषकर घूर्णन बजती of electrons ( see below ).
Instead of a soup, the atom was also sometimes said to have था a `` बादल '' of धनात्मक चार्ज.
With this model, Thomson abandoned उसके पहले `` nebular अणु '' परिकल्पना in जिससे the अणु थी रचित of immaterial vortices.
Now, at least part of the atom was to be रचित of thomson 's particulate ऋणात्मक corpuscles, हालांकि the rest of the positively charged part of the atom remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined.
The 1904 Thomson model was disproved by the 1909 gold foil experiment of hans geiger और अर्नेस्ट मार्सडेन.
This was interpreted by अर्नेस्ट रदरफोर्ड in 1911
to imply a very small nucleus of the atom containing a very ऊँची धनात्मक चार्ज ( in the मामला of सुनहरा, पर्याप्त to संतुलन परिचय 100 electrons ), thus leading to the Rutherford model of the atom.
Although gold has an atomic number of 79, immediately after Rutherford 's paper appeared in 1911 Antonius वैन डेन broek बना the सहज सुझाव कि परमाणु क्रमांक is nuclear charge.
The matter जरूरी प्रयोग to decide.
Henry Moseley 's work showed experimentally in 1913 ( see Moseley 's law ) that the effective nuclear charge was बहुत बंद to the परमाणु क्रमांक ( moseley मिला तभी एक ईकाई अंतर ), और moseley संदर्भित तभी the papers of वैन den Broek and Rutherford.
This work culminated in the solar-system-like ( but quantum-limited ) Bohr model of the atom in the same year, in जिससे a केंद्रक containing an परमाणु क्रमांक of धनात्मक चार्ज is घिरी by an बराबर क्रमांक of electrons in कक्षीय shells.
Bohr had also प्रेरित moseley 's कार्य.
Thomson 's model was compared ( though not by Thomson ) to a British मिठाई पुकारा प्लम खीर, hence the नाम.
Thomson 's paper was प्रकाशित in the कूच 1904 संस्करण of the Philosophical Magazine, the leading British science journal of the day.
In thomson 's दृश्य :... the अणु of the तत्व consist of a क्रमांक of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a sphere of uniform positive electrification,...
in इस मॉडल, the electrons यहूद फ़्री to घूर्णन within the blob or cloud of positive substance.
These orbits were stabilized in the model by the fact that when an electron moved farther from the बीच of the धनात्मक बादल, it लगा a larger जाल धनात्मक inward फ़ोर्स, क्युकी वहीँ was more material of opposite charge, inside its orbit ( see Gauss 's law ).
In Thomson 's model, electrons were free to घूर्णन in बजती जिससे यहूद further stabilized by interactions between the electrons, और spectra यहूद to be accounted for by energy differences of different ring orbits.
Thomson attempted to make his model account for कुछ of the प्रमुख spectral लाइनों ज्ञात लिये कुछ तत्व, but was not notably successful at this.
Still, Thomson 's model ( along with a similar Saturnian ring model for atomic electrons, also put forward in 1904 by nagaoka बाद जेम्स क्लर्क मैक्सवेल 's मॉडल of शनि 's बजती ), यहूद पहले harbingers of the later and more successful solar-system-like Bohr model of the atom.
Typical स्ट्रिप of बेकन.
Bacon is a cured मांस prepared इससे a pig.
It is first cured using large quantities of salt, either in a brine or in a शुष्क पैकिंग ; the परिणाम is भैस बेकन ( भी ज्ञात as ग्रीन बेकन ).
Fresh bacon may then be further सूखी लिये सप्ताह or महीने in ठंडा एयर, or it may be boiled or smoked.
Fresh and dried bacon is typically पकाया पहले eating.
Boiled bacon is ready to eat, as is कुछ स्मोक्ड बेकन, लकिन may be पकाया further पहले खाने.
Bacon is prepared इससे अनेक अलग कटौती of meat.
It is usually made from side and back cuts of pork, except in the United States, where it is almost always prepared इससे पोर्क पेट ( typically referred to as `` streaky '', `` वसीय '', or `` अमरीकी स्टाइल '' बाहर of the US and Canada ).
The side काटें रै अधिक मांस और कम मोटे than the belly.
Bacon may be prepared from either of two पृथक वापस कटौती : fatback, जिससे is almost pure fat, and pork loin, which is very lean.
bacon-cured पोर्क loin is known as back bacon.
Uncooked पोर्क पेट बेकन स्ट्रिप्स.
Bacon may be eaten smoked, boiled, fried, baked, or ग्रील्ड, or प्रयुक्त as a नाबालिग संघटक to flavor dishes.
Bacon is also used for barding और larding roasts, विशेषकर खेल, e.g. venison, pheasant.
The word is derived from the Old High जर्मनी bacho, अर्थ `` buttock '', `` हैम '' or `` पक्ष of बेकन '', and cognate with the Old French bacon.
In continental Europe, this part of the pig is usually not smoked like bacon is in the संयुक्त राज्य ; it is प्रयुक्त primarily in घन ( lardons ) as a कुकिंग संघटक, valued both as a source of fat and for its flavor.
In Italy, this is called pancetta and is प्रायः पकाया in छोटी घन or परोसा uncooked और thinly sliced as भाग of an antipasto.
Meat from other animals, such as beef, lamb, chicken, goat, or turkey, may भी be काटें, cured, or वरना prepared to resemble bacon, and may even be referred to as `` bacon ''.
Such use is आम in क्षेत्रों साथ significant Jewish and Muslim populations.
The USDA defines bacon as `` the cured belly of a swine carcass '' ; अन्य कटौती और विशेषताएँ जरूर be separately योग्य ( e.g., `` smoked pork loin bacon '' ).
लिये सुरक्षा, बेकन जरूर be treated to prevent trichinosis, caused by Trichinella, a parasitic roundworm which can be destroyed by heating, freezing, drying, or smoking.
Bacon is विशिष्ट इससे नमक पोर्क और हैम by मतभेद in the brine ( or dry packing ).
Bacon brine has added curing ingredients, most notably sodium nitrite, and occasionally sodium nitrate or potassium नाइट्रेट ( साल्टपीटर ) ; सोडियम ascorbate or erythorbate हैं added to accelerate curing और stabilize color.
Flavorings such as brown sugar or maple are प्रयुक्त लिये कुछ उत्पाद.
If used, sodium polyphosphates हैं added to improve sliceability और reduce spattering जब the bacon is pan fried.
आज, a brine लिये हैम, लकिन not bacon, includes a large amount of sugar.
historically, `` हैम '' और `` बेकन '' referred to अलग कटौती of मांस कि were brined or packed identically, often together in the same barrel.
The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) (, संहिताबद्ध in भाग at ) is a संघीय विधि जिससे establishes न्यूनतम मानकों लिये पेंशन plans in private industry and provides for extensive rules on the federal income tax effects of transactions associated with employee benefit plans.
erisa थी enacted to protect the रूचि of कर्मचारी लाभ plan participants and their beneficiaries by:
Requiring the disclosure of financial and अन्य सूचना concerning the योजना to beneficiaries ;
Establishing standards of conduct लिये योजना fiduciaries ;
Providing for उचित remedies और अभिगम to the federal courts.
ERISA is sometimes used to refer to the full body of laws regulating कर्मचारी लाभ योजनाएँ, जिससे हैं मिला mainly in the Internal Revenue Code and ERISA itself.
Responsibility लिये the निर्वचन और प्रवर्तन of erisa is विभाजित among the विभाग of मजदूर, the विभाग of the राजकोष ( विशेषकर the Internal Revenue Service ), and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
Illegal immigration to the United States is the act of foreign nationals प्रवेश the संयुक्त राज्य, बगैर सरकारी अनुमति और in उल्लंघन of संयुक्त राज्य राष्ट्रीयता विधि, or रहकर परे the termination date of a visa, also in violation of the law.
A warning sign at the international boundary between the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा in पाइंट Roberts, Washington.
A much अलग दृष्टिकोण at the u.s.-mexico किनारा निकट El Paso, Texas
The undocumented immigrant population of the United States in 2008 was estimated by the बीच लिये आव्रजन अध्ययन to be परिचय 11 लाख लोगों, bas इससे 12.5 लाख people in 2007.
Other estimates range इससे 7 to 20 लाख.
According to a 2005 Pew Hispanic Center report, 56 % of undocumented आप्रवासियों यहूद इससे मैक्सिको ; 22 % यहूद इससे अन्य लैटिन अमरीकी देशों ; 13 % यहूद इससे एशिया ; 6 % यहूद इससे यूरोपीय and Canada ; and 3 % were from Africa and the rest of the world.
Alvin Independent School District is a स्कूल ज़िला आधारित in एल्विन, Texas ( USA ).
Alvin ISD is a large suburban स्कूल ज़िला दक्षिण of ह्यूस्टन in the समुदायों of एल्विन, manvel, pearland, hillcrest, Rosharon, Iowa Colony, Liverpool, and Amsterdam.
AISD serves Pearland नगर 's rapidly growing पश्चिमी portion of the नगर सहित the new large master-planned communities of Shadow Creek Ranch, South Fork, and Southern Trails.
Alvin ISD कवर of land.
In human anatomy, the ulnar nerve is a nerve जिससे रनों निकट the ulna bone.
The ulnar collateral ligament of elbow संयुक्त is in संबंध साथ the ulnar तंत्रिका.
The nerve is the largest unprotected nerve in the human देह ( अर्थ unprotected by मांसपेशी or bone ), so injury is common.
This nerve is directly connected to the छोटी उंगली, और the सटा हाफ of the रिंग उंगली, supplying the palmar पक्ष of ये उंगलियाँ, सहित दोनो सामने और वापस of the tips, perhaps as far back as the fingernail beds.
One method of injuring the nerve is to स्ट्राइक the medial epicondyle of the humerus इससे posteriorly, or inferiorly with the elbow flexed.
The ulnar nerve is trapped between the अस्थि और the overlying स्किन at this point.
This is commonly referred to as bumping one 's `` funny bone ''.
This name is thought to be a pun, आधारित on the ध्वनि प्रतिरूप between the नाम of the bone of the upper arm, the `` humerus `` and the word `` humorous ``.
alternatively, according to the ऑक्सफोर्ड अंग्रेज़ी शब्दकोष it may refer to `` the peculiar sensation experienced when it is struck ''.
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, shortened Hogwarts, is a fictional अंग्रेजों स्कूल of जादू लिये विद्यार्थी aged ग्यारह to अठारह, और is the प्राथमिक सेटिंग लिये the पहला छह किताबे in j.K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series.
Rowling has suggested that she may have inadvertently taken the name from the hogwort plant ( Croton capitatus ), जिससे वो था देखी at kew gardens कुछ समय पहले लिखने the श्रेणी, हालांकि the names `` the हॉग्वार्ट्स '' और `` hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 Nigel Molesworth book How To Be Topp by Geoffrey Willans.
Hogwarts school was voted as the 36th बेहतरीन स्कॉटिश शैक्षणिक स्थापना in a 2008 ऑनलाइन ranking, outranking Edinburgh 's Loretto School.
According to a director of the Independent Schools Network rankings, it थी added to the स्कूलों लिस्टिंग `` for fun '' and was then voted on.
The U.S. subprime mortgage crisis थी a नियत of कार्यक्रम और शर्तें कि led to a वित्तीय crisis and subsequent recession that began in 2008.
It was characterized by a वृद्धि in subprime बंधक delinquencies और foreclosures, और the resulting decline of securities backed by said mortgages.
Several major financial institutions collapsed in सितंबर 2008, साथ significant disruption in the प्रवाह of क्रेडिट to व्यवसायों और consumers and the onset of a severe global recession.
There यहूद अनेक कल्याणकारी of the संकट, साथ टीकाकारों assigning अलग स्तर of दोष to वित्तीय institutions, regulators, credit agencies, government housing policies, and consumers, among others.
A proximate कारण थी the rise in subprime lending.
The percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated during a given year rose from the ऐतिहासिक 8 % or निम्नतर दायरा to लगभग 20 % इससे 2004 to 2006, साथ much उच्चतर ratios in कुछ भाग of the U.S.
A high percentage of ये subprime mortgages, over 90 % in 2006 for example, were adjustable-rate mortgages.
These two changes were part of a broader trend of lowered lending मानकों और higher-risk mortgage products.
Further, U.S. households had become increasingly ऋणी, साथ the अनुपात of कर्ज़ to डिस्पोजेबल निजी आय rising from 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the end of 2007, much of this increase mortgage-related.
When U.S. home prices declined steeply after peaking in mid-2006, borrowers ' क्षमता to पुनर्वित्त their loans became more difficult.
As adjustable-rate mortgages began to रीसेट at उच्चतर ब्याज rates ( causing higher monthly payments ), mortgage delinquencies soared.
Securities backed with mortgages, सहित subprime mortgages, widely आयोजित by वित्तीय firms globally, lost most of their value.
Global investors also drastically reduced purchases of mortgage-backed कर्ज़ और अन्य प्रतिभूति as भाग of a मनाही in the क्षमता और willingness of the private financial system to support lending.
Concerns about the soundness of U.S. credit और वित्तीय बाज़ार led to tightening क्रेडिट around the संसार और slowing economic growth in the U.S. and Europe.
The crisis had severe, long-lasting consequences लिये the U.S. and European economies.
The U.S. entered a deep recession, with nearly 9 million jobs lost during 2008 और 2009, roughly 6 % of the workforce.
u.S. आवास कीमतें गिरी nearly 30 % on औसत और the U.S. stock market fell approximately 50 % by early 2009.
As of early 2013, the U.S. stock market had recovered to its pre-crisis शिखर लकिन आवास कीमतें remained निकट उनके कम पाइंट और unemployment remained elevated.
Economic growth remained नीचे pre-crisis levels.
Europe also continued to struggle साथ इसके अपना आर्थिक crisis.
कार्ल जंग in 1910.
Myers and Briggs extrapolated उनके mbti सिद्धान्त इससे जंग 's writings in his book Psychological Types.
The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ( MBTI ) assessment is a psychometric प्रश्नावली designed to माप मनोवैज्ञानिक वरीयताओं in कैसा लोगों perceive the world and make decisions.
These preferences were extrapolated इससे the typological theories प्रस्तावित by कार्ल गुस्ताव जंग और first published in his 1921 book Psychological Types ( English edition, 1923 ).
Jung theorized that there are four principal मनोवैज्ञानिक कृत्यों by जिससे we अनुभव the संसार : सनसनी, intuition, feeling, and thinking.
One of ये चार कृत्यों is प्रबल सबसे of the time.
The असली डेवलपर of the व्यक्तित्व inventory यहूद katharine कुक briggs और उसके बेटी, इसाबेल Briggs Myers ; these two, having studied extensively the work of Jung, turned their interest of human behavior into a devotion of turning the theory of psychological types to practical use.
They began बनाना the indicator दौरान संसार युद्ध ii, believing कि a ज्ञान of व्यक्तित्व preferences would help women who were entering the industrial workforce for the first time to identify the sort of war-time jobs that would be `` most comfortable and effective ''.
The initial प्रश्नावली grew into the myers-briggs प्रकार indicator, which was first published in 1962.
The MBTI focuses on normal populations and emphasizes the मान of naturally occurring मतभेद.
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the mbti is कि we सब have विशिष्ट वरीयताओं in the रास्ता we construe हमारी अनुभवों, and these preferences underlie our interests, needs, values, and motivation '' ( p. 499 ).
`` Judas '' is a सोंग by अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार Lady Gaga, from her second studio album Born This Way ( 2011 ).
It was released by Interscope Records on अप्रैल 15, 2011, चार दिनों ahead of इसके अनुसूचित रिलीज.
Written and produced by Lady Gaga और redone, `` यहूदा '' is a नृत्य और इलेक्ट्रो हाउस सोंग परिचय a स्त्री in love with a man who betrayed her.
It embodies the incidents कि have haunted गागा in the पास्ट, और इसके core meaning refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape.
Gaga has further explained that the song थी भी परिचय honoring एक 's भीतरी अंधेरा in order to bring oneself into the light.
The artwork for the सिंगल थी designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups, the song was generally well received by critics, जो likened the सोंग to `` ख़राब रोमांस `` साथ कुछ noting it चाहिए have महरूम the एल्बम 's lead single.
The song रै a समान ध्वनि to गागा 's पिछला redone-produced ट्रैक्स, सहित `` Poker Face ``, `` LoveGame ``, `` Bad Romance '', and `` Alejandro ``.
It contains तीन पृथक hooks और a house -influenced break down.
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the breakdown talk about her as परे मोचन, regarding the परंपरागत दृश्य of कया a woman should be.
`` Judas '' initially had a दमदार बिक्री खोलने, लकिन थी कम कामयाब commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles.
The song reached the top ten of the charts in सबसे प्रमुख म्यूज़िक बाज़ार, और भी पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the चार्ट in South Korea.
A म्यूज़िक वीडियो लिये the सोंग was filmed in April 2011, co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus.
It has a biblical कथानक जहाँ reedus निभाई Judas Iscariot and Gaga played Mary Magdalene.
The video portrays उन्हें as आधुनिक दिन प्रचारकों going to जेरूसलम.
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying यीशु, और ended साथ गागा as magdalene getting stoned to death.
Before its release, the Catholic League condemned गागा लिये the कथित उपयोग of धार्मिक imagery और उसके भूमिका in the video.
However, आलोचकों generally praised the वीडियो, not finding any offensive content.
The video was मनोनीत लिये दो पुरस्कार at the 2011 एमटीवी Video Music Awards.
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows, including the ग्राहम नॉर्टन दिखाएँ, शनिवार रात्रि सजीव, शुभ morning americas `` गर्मियाँ कॉन्सर्ट श्रेणी '', the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
Marvin Gaye ( April 2, 1939April 1, 1984 ), born Marvin pentz gay, jr., थी an अमरीकी singer-songwriter and musician.
Gaye helped to shape the ध्वनि of motown रिकॉर्ड in the 1960s साथ a स्ट्रिंग of हिट्स सहित `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard It Through the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell, later earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul ''.
During the 1970s, Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going On and Let 's Get It On and became among the पहला कलाकारों in motown to ब्रेक दूर इससे the बागडोर of इसके उत्पादन company.
Gaye 's later recordings बहकावे अनेक r & b subgenres ऐसे as quiet storm and neo-soul.
Following a period in Europe under a tax exile in the early 1980s, Gaye released the 1982 ग्रैमी award-winning hit `` यौन healing `` और the मध्यरात्रि Love album.
Since उसके मौत in 1984, gaye रै महरूम मरणोपरांत सम्मानित by अनेक संस्थानों, सहित the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the अकादमी of गति चित्र कला और sciences ( ampas ) to निर्माता working in the गति चित्र उद्योग और is the तभी श्रेणी in जिससे प्रत्येक सदस्य is eligible to nominate for.
Best Picture is considered the most important of the Academy Awards, as it represents सब the directing, एक्टिंग, म्यूज़िक composing, लिखने, संपादन और अन्य प्रयत्न put forth into a film.
Consequently, Best Picture is the final award and the निष्कर्ष of the सालाना अकादमी पुरस्कार ceremony.
The Grand Staircase columns at the dolby थिएटर in लॉस एंजिल्स, जहाँ the अकादमी पुरस्कार ceremonies have महरूम आयोजित चूंकि 2002, showcase every film that has won the Best Picture title since the award 's inception 85 years ago.
Heavy Rain is an interactive drama action-adventure वीडियो खेल निर्मित by फ्रेंच डेवलपर quantic सपना exclusively लिये the PlayStation 3.
The game is written and निर्देशित by quantic सपना 's संस्थापक and CEO David Cage.
Heavy rains स्टोरी is a नाटकीय थ्रिलर modelled बाद फिल्मी noir, featuring चार protagonists शामिल साथ the रहस्य of the Origami Killer, a serial killer who uses extended periods of rainfall to drown his victims.
Ethan Mars is trying to save his son from being the अगला शिकार, जबकि investigative पत्रकार Madison Paige, FBI profiler Norman Jayden, and private detective Scott Shelby are each trying to track down clues to the Origami Killer 's identity.
The player interacts with the game by performing actions highlighted on screen related to motions on the controller, और in कुछ मामले, performing a श्रेणी of जल्दी समय कार्यक्रम दौरान fast-paced कार्रवाई sequences.
The player 's decisions और क्रियाएँ दौरान the खेल होगा affect the narrative.
The main characters can be मारे, और निश्चित क्रियाएँ may सीसे to अलग scenes and endings.
A playable डेमो थी released on 11 फ़रवरी 2010.
The demo was released prior to this date लिये लोगों जो took भाग in a चार दिन चुनौती on 5 फ़रवरी 2010.
A patch to allow use of the PlayStation मूव नियंत्रक to खेल the खेल was released in September 2010.
Heavy Rain was critically acclaimed और रै बेची over दो लाख नक़ल.
It won 2010 's Game of the Year from CNN and Gaming संघ, और बेहतरीन ps3 खेल of 2010 by GameSpy and IGN.
A modified version of the game was released titled Heavy Rain Edition modifiée exclusively in फ़्रांस, aimed towards a younger दर्शक.
In 2010, the खेल थी शामिल in the किताब 1001 वीडियो खेल You Must Play Before You Die.
Total superannuation industry liabilities : सदस्यों निधि और reserves ( a $ लाखो ) चूंकि 1988.
Annual total superannuation उद्योग एसेट growth 1996-2005.
Superannuation in Australia refers to the arrangements which लोगों मेक in ऑस्ट्रेलिया to have निधि उपलब्धियाँ लिये उन्हें in रिटायरमेंट.
In Australia, superannuation arrangements are government-supported और प्रोत्साहित, और न्यूनतम प्रावधानों हैं अनिवार्य for employees.
For example, नियोक्ता हैं जरूरी to अदा a proportion of an कर्मचारी 's salaries और मजदूरी ( फिलहाल 9 % ) into a superannuation fund, but people are encouraged to put aside additional funds into superannuation.
The न्यूनतम दायित्व जरूरी by नियोक्ता is नियत to बढ़ाएँ to 12 % धीरे stepping annually from 2013 to 2020.
An individual can withdraw funds out of a superannuation fund when the person meets one of the conditions of रिलीज contained in अनुसूची 1 of the superannuation उद्योग ( पर्यवेक्षण ) Regulations 1994.
This is a सूची of the वर्ण इससे the अमरीकी comedy-drama television series The Game.
चुनावी कॉलेज मैप प्रर्दशित the results of the 2012 U.S. presidential election.
President Barack Obama ( D - IL ) won the लोकप्रिय vote in 26 राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया ( denoted in blue ) to capture 332 electoral votes.
Former Governor Mitt Romney ( R - MA ) जीती the लोकप्रिय vote in 24 राज्य ( denoted in रेड ) to कैप्चर 206 चुनावी votes.
Cartogram representation of the Electoral College vote लिये the 2012 चुनाव, साथ प्रत्येक वर्गाकार representing एक electoral vote.
The United States Electoral College is the institution that officially elects the अध्यक्ष और वाइस अध्यक्ष of the United States every four years.
The President and Vice President are not निर्वाचित सीधे by the मतदाता.
Instead, they are elected by `` निर्वाचक '' जो हैं चुनी by लोकप्रिय vote on a state-by-state basis.
Electors are apportioned to each राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, लकिन नहीं to territorial possessions of the United States, such as Puerto Rico and Guam.
The number of electors in each state is equal to the number of members of कॉंग्रेस to जिससे the राज्य is entitled.
The twenty-third amendment रै सदा resulted in the District of Columbia having three electors.
There are 538 electors, based on there being 435 प्रतिनिधि और 100 सीनेटरों, प्लस the तीन निर्वाचक इससे the District of Columbia.
Electors are pledged to particular अध्यक्षीय और वाइस अध्यक्षीय candidates, though unpledged electors are possible.
In all states, मगर maine और नेब्रास्का, निर्वाचक हैं निर्वाचित on a `` winner-take-all '' basis.
कि is, सब निर्वाचक pledged to the अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी जो विन्स the सबसे votes in a state become electors for that state.
Maine and Nebraska use the `` congressional district method '', selecting one elector भीतर प्रत्येक congressional ज़िला by लोकप्रिय vote और selecting the बाकी दो निर्वाचक by a राज्यव्यापी popular vote.
Although no elector is required by federal law to honor a pledge, वहीँ have तभी महरूम बहुत few अवसरों जब an elector voted contrary to a pledge.
The Twelfth Amendment specifies how a President and वाइस अध्यक्ष हैं निर्वाचित और requires प्रत्येक elector to डाल एक vote लिये अध्यक्ष और another vote for Vice President.
Critics argue that the Electoral College is inherently undemocratic and gives झूले राज्य अनुपातहीन influence in electing the अध्यक्ष और Vice President.
The Electoral College gives a numeric advantage in the election of the president to the छोटी राज्य, as the न्यूनतम क्रमांक of निर्वाचक लिये the छोटी राज्य is तीन compared to one for the election of representatives.
On the other हाथ, the winner-take-all method of voting favors the larger states.
a क्रमांक of संवैधानिक amendments have महरूम प्रस्तावित seeking to alter the Electoral College or replace it with a direct popular vote.
Barack Hussein Obama II ( ; born अगस्त 4, 1961 ) is the 44th और वर्तमान अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States, the first African American to hold the office.
Born in Honolulu, Hawaii, Obama is a graduate of Columbia विश्वविद्यालयों और हार्वर्ड विधि स्कूल, जहाँ he थी अध्यक्ष of the हार्वर्ड Law Review.
He was a जातियाँ आयोजक in शिकागो before earning his law degree.
He worked as a सिविल अधिकारों attorney in शिकागो और सिखाया संवैधानिक विधि at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004.
He परोसा तीन शर्तें representing the 13th ज़िला in the इलिनोइस सीनेट इससे 1997 to 2004, running unsuccessfully for the United States House of Representatives in 2000.
In 2004, Obama received national attention during his campaign to represent Illinois in the United States Senate with his विजय in the कूच लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी प्राथमिक, उसके keynote पता at the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल सम्मेलन in जुलाई, और उसके चुनाव to the सीनेट in November.
He began his presidential अभियान in 2007, और in 2008, बाद a बंद प्राथमिक अभियान विरूद्ध हिलेरी rodham Clinton, he won sufficient delegates in the Democratic Party primaries to receive the presidential nomination.
He then defeated Republican nominee John मैक्केन in the सामान्य चुनाव, और थी उदघाटन as अध्यक्ष on जनवरी 20, 2009.
Nine months बाद, ओबामा थी नामित the 2009 नोबेल Peace Prize laureate.
He was re-elected president in November 2012, defeating Republican nominee mitt romney, और थी sworn in लिये a दूसरी पद on जनवरी 20, 2013.
Early in his first term in office, Obama signed into law economic stimulus legislation in response to the Great Recession in the रूप of the अमरीकी रिकवरी और reinvestment अधिनियम of 2009 और the कर राहत, बेरोजगारी बीमे reauthorization, और जॉब सृष्टि Act of 2010.
Other major domestic initiatives in his presidency include the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, often referred to as `` obamacare '' ; the dodd–frank वॉल गली सुधार और उपभोक्ता सुरक्षा अधिनियम ; the do n't पूछो, do n't बताना repeal अधिनियम of 2010 ; the बजट कंट्रोल Act of 2011 ; and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012.
In May 2012, he became the पहला बैठे u.S. अध्यक्ष to सरेआम support same-sex विवाह और in 2013 उसके प्रशासन दायर briefs जिससे urged the Supreme Court to rule in favor of same-sex couples in two high-profile cases.
In foreign policy, Obama ended U.S. military involvement in the Iraq War, increased troop levels in Afghanistan, signed the New प्रारंभ बाहें कंट्रोल सन्धि साथ रूस, ordered u.S. सैन्य भागीदारी in लीबिया, और ordered the सैन्य आपरेशन कि resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden.
The होंडा cbr1100xx सुपर blackbird थी a होंडा मोटरसाइकिल made from 1996 to 2007.
The bike was विकसित to चुनौती the कावासाकी निंजा zx-11 as the संसार 's तीव्रतम उत्पादन मोटरसाइकिल, and Honda succeeded with a top speed of.
Two years later the title passed to the suzuki hayabusa, जिससे पहुँचे.
the blackbird is नामित बाद the लॉकहीड sr-71, also a speed record holder.
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड आधारित on बिंब
Sample दृश्य of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक health record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving अवधारणा पारिभाषित as a व्यवस्थित संग्रहण of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य सूचना about individual patients or populations.
It is a record in digital format that is theoretically सक्षम of होने साझा आरपार अलग स्वास्थ्य care settings.
In some cases this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide सूचना प्रणालियों और अन्य सूचना संजाल or exchanges.
ehrs may शामिल a दायरा of आंकड़ा, सहित जनसांख्यिकी, चिकित्सा history, medication and allergies, immunization status, laboratory test results, radiology images, vital signs, personal stats like age and weight, and billing information.
The मेरिनर up on the mast in a storm.
एक of the wood-engraved illustrations by Gustave Doré.
The Rime of the Ancient मेरिनर ( originally the rime of the ancyent marinere ) is the longest प्रमुख कविता by the अंग्रेज़ी poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge, written in 1797–98 and published in 1798 in the first edition of Lyrical Ballads.
Modern editions use a later संशोधित संस्करण मुद्रित in 1817 कि featured a gloss.
Along with other poems in गीतात्मक ballads, it थी a सिग्नल शिफ़्ट to आधुनिक काव्य and the beginning of British Romantic literature.
A proxy auto-config ( PAC ) file defines how web browsers और अन्य उपयोक्ता एजेंटों can automatically चुनें the appropriate proxy server ( access method ) for fetching a given URL.
A PAC file contains a जावास्क्रिप्ट फलन “findproxyforurl ( url, host ) ”.
This function returns a स्ट्रिंग साथ एक or अधिक अभिगम विधि विशेषताएँ.
These specifications कारण the उपयोक्ता एजेंट to उपयोग a particular proxy server or to connect directly.
Multiple specifications provide a fall-back जब a प्रॉक्सी fails to respond.
the ब्राउजर fetches इस pac संचिका पहले requesting other URLs.
The URL of the PAC file is either विन्यस्त हस्तचालित or संकल्पित automatically by the वेब प्रॉक्सी autodiscovery Protocol.
Zendaya Coleman ( born September 1, 1996 ), ज्ञात mononymously as zendaya, is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, singer and dancer.
she stars on the डिज़्नी चैनल sitcom Shake It Up as Rocky Blue.
She रै स्ट्रक्चर in दो films और निभाई एक of the lead roles in the film Frenemies as Halley Brandon.
She voiced Fern in the pixie खोखला खेल.
She appeared in शुभ लक चार्ली as रॉकी ब्लू और in a Good Luck Charlie and Shake It Up crossover title Charlie Shake It Up.
She appeared on PrankStars as herself in the episode `` चलना the शरारत '' और on a.n.t. फार्म as sequoia जोन्स in the एपीसोड `` Creative ConsultANT. ''
Zendaya is भी a संगीतकार.
She signed a deal with Hollywood Records on August 8, 2012 and started recording songs for उसके डेब्यू एल्बम on अगस्त 12, 2012.
She released a single from an independent label called `` Swag It Out `` और another सिंगल साथ बेला thorne पुकारा `` देखें me, '' जिससे is प्रदर्शित on the ब्रेक It Down album.
On March 20, 2012, Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an album साथ पुकारा शेक it up : सजीव 2 नृत्य, प्रत्येक have उनके अपना सोंग on it, साथ साथ a mash-up of both songs together as one.
On August 21, 2012, Zendaya and Bella thorne released an ep पुकारा शेक it up : बना In Japan.
Zendaya has a Christmas song called `` Shake Santa Shake, '' which is on the डिज़्नी चैनल अवकाश प्लेलिस्ट cd, जिससे थी released on अक्तूबर 2, 2012.
On March 5, 2013 the third Shake It Up soundtrack was released, entitled I < 3 Dance ; on it, Zendaya has दो गीतों साथ बेला - `` संक्रामक प्रेम '' और `` इस is my नृत्य मंजिल '' - as well as one solo song, `` Beat of My Drum. ''
This is a list of airports in पेन्सिलवेनिया ( a u.S. राज्य ), grouped by type and sorted by location.
It contains all public-use और सैन्य एयरपोर्ट in the state.
Some private-use and former airports may be included where notable, such as airports that यहूद previously public-use, those साथ वाणिज्यिक enplanements अंकित by the faa or एयरपोर्ट आबंटित an iata विमानक्षेत्र code.
iOS ( previously iPhone OS ) is a mobile operating system developed and distributed by Apple Inc. Originally released in 2007 लिये the iphone और ipod टच प्लेटफ़ॉर्म, it रै महरूम विस्तारित to support अन्य ठहराना डिवाइस ऐसे as the iPad and Apple TV.
Unlike Microsoft 's Windows Phone and Google 's Android, Apple does not अनुज्ञा आईओएस लिये संस्थापना on non-apple हार्डवेयर.
, Apple 's App Store contained more than 700,000 iOS अनुप्रयोग, जिससे have collectively महरूम डाउनलोड अधिक than 30 billion times.
It had a 21 % share of the स्मार्टफोन मोबाईल operating system units shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012, behind only Google 's Android.
In June 2012, it accounted for 65 % of mobile वेब आंकड़ा खपत ( सहित उपयोग on दोनो the ipod टच and the iPad ).
At the half of 2012, वहीँ यहूद 410 लाख डिवाइस activated.
According to the special मीडिया इवेंट आयोजित by ठहराना on सितंबर 12, 2012, 400 million devices have been sold through June 2012.
The user interface of iOS is based on the अवधारणा of सीधा हेरफेर, using multi-touch gestures.
Interface control elements consist of sliders, switches, and buttons.
Interaction with the OS includes gestures such as swipe, tap, pinch, and reverse pinch, all of which have specific परिभाषाएं भीतर the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the आईओएस ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली and its multi-touch interface.
Internal accelerometers are used by some applications to respond to shaking the device ( one common result is the undo command ) or घूर्णन it in तीन आयाम ( एक आम परिणाम is switching इससे पोर्ट्रेट to landscape mode ).
आईओएस is निकला इससे os x, with which it shares the Darwin foundation.
iOS is Apple 's mobile version of the OS X operating system प्रयुक्त on ठहराना कंप्यूटर.
In iOS, there are चार abstraction परतों : the कोर os परत, the Core Services layer, the Media layer, and the Cocoa Touch layer.
The current version of the operating system ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 GB of the device 's flash मेमोरी लिये the प्रणाली विभाजन, using roughly 800 mb of कि विभाजन ( varying by मॉडल ) लिये आईओएस itself.
iOS currently runs on iPhone, ipad, ipod टच and Apple TV.
The Plymouth Superbird is प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके अत्यधिक ऊँची rear wing.
1987 Audi खेल quattros1 साथ इसके विशाल विंग्स at pikes शिखर
A spoiler is an ऑटोमोटिव aerodynamic यंत्र जिनकी intended डिज़ाइन फलन is to 'spoil ' प्रतिकूल एयर गति आरपार a body of a vehicle in motion, usually described as turbulence or drag.
Spoilers on the front of a vehicle are often called air dams, because in addition to directing air प्रवाह वे भी reduce the राशि of एयर बहती underneath the vehicle which generally reduces aerodynamic lift and drag.
Spoilers are often fitted to race and high-performance sports cars, हालांकि वे have become आम on यात्री वाहनों as well.
Some spoilers are added to cars primarily for styling purposes and have either little aerodynamic लाभ or भी मेक the वायुगतिकी बदतर.
Spoilers for cars are often incorrectly उलझन साथ, or the पद प्रयुक्त interchangeably with, wings.
Automotive विंग्स हैं डिवाइस जिनकी intended डिज़ाइन is to generate downforce as एयर गुजरता around them, not simply disrupt existing airflow patterns.
Mario, who serves as Nintendo 's mascot, is a fictional अक्षर निर्मित by खेल पंक्तियां शिगेरू miyamoto and voiced by Charles Martinet.
This is a list of video games where the अक्षर मारियो plays a भाग, either as the समर्थक, विपक्षी, supporting अक्षर, as भाग of an ensemble cast, as a cameo, or in a game within a game.
it करता नहीं शामिल सरल सन्दर्भ to the अक्षर, such as the portraits of Mario found in The Legend of Zelda : A Link to the Past.
The year indicated is the year the game was first released, सबसे commonly in जापानी ; खेल यहूद sometimes released सालो बाद in अन्य regions of the world.
The list includes पोर्ट, remakes और compilations.
It does n't शामिल कोई आभासी कंसोल re-releases.
`` Man of Constant Sorrow '' ( also known as `` I Am A Man of Constant Sorrow '' ) is a traditional American folk song first अंकित by लंड burnett, a partially अँधा fiddler इससे केंटकी.
The song was originally recorded by Burnett as `` विदाई सोंग '' मुद्रित in a रिचर्ड burnett songbook, circa 1913.
An early संस्करण थी अंकित by Emry Arthur in 1928 ( Vocalion Vo 5208 ).
Public interest in the song was renewed after the रिलीज of the 2000 फिल्मी o bhai, जहाँ आर्ट thou ?
, as it plays a सेंट्रल भूमिका in the film 's plot.
The song was also शामिल in the फिल्मी 's अत्यधिक कामयाब, multiple-platinum selling soundtrack.
Josephson junction array chip विकसित by the नेशनल ब्यूरो of मानकों as a standard volt
The volt ( symbol : V ) is the si निकला ईकाई लिये इलेक्ट्रिक संभावित ( वोल्टेज ), इलेक्ट्रिक potential difference, and electromotive force.
The volt is named in honor of the Italian physicist alessandro volta ( 1745–1827 ), जो invented the वोल्टायिक pile, possibly the first chemical battery.
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987, पहले कदम यहूद removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A प्लैक commemorating the स्थान of the Sarajevo assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his wife, Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, यहूद शॉट मुर्दे in साराजेवो, by gavrilo princip, एक of a समूह of छह बोस्नियाई serb हत्यारे समन्वित by डेनियल Ilić.
The political objective of the assassination was to break बंद austria-hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so वे could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia.
The assassins ' motives यहूद सतत साथ the गति that later became known as Young Bosnia.
Serbian military officers stood पीछे the आक्रमण.
At the top of these Serbian military षड्यंत्रकारियों थी मुख्य of सर्बियाई सैन्य प्रज्ञा dragutin dimitrijević, उसके righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić, and Masterspy Rade Malobabić.
Major Tankosić armed the हत्यारे साथ बम और pistols and trained them.
The assassins were given access to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses and एजेंटों कि rade malobabić प्रयुक्त लिये the घुसपैठ of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The हत्यारे, the कुंजी सदस्यों of the clandestine टनल, और the कुंजी सर्बियाई सैन्य conspirators who were still alive were arrested, tried, convicted and punished.
Those who were गिरफ्तार in बोस्निया यहूद आजमाया in साराजेवो in October 1914.
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo court on the French-controlled salonika सामने in 1916–1917 on unrelated गलत आरोप ; सर्बिया चलाया three of the top military conspirators.
Much of कया is ज्ञात परिचय the assassinations comes from these two trials and related records.
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly controversial because the आक्रमण led to the outbreak of संसार युद्ध i एक माह बाद.
Mission San Juan Capistrano was a Spanish mission in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया, स्तिथ in present-day सैन Juan Capistrano.
It थी संस्थापित on सब संतो ' दिन नवम्बर 1, 1776, by Spanish Catholics of the Franciscan Order.
Named for giovanni da capistrano, a 15th सदी theologian और `` योद्धा पुजारी '' जो resided in the abruzzo प्रदेश of इटली, सैन जुआन Capistrano has the distinction of being home to the oldest building in California still in use, a chapel built in 1782.
Known alternately as `` सेरा 's चैपल '' और `` पिता सेरा 's गिरिजाघर, '' it is the तभी extant structure where it has been documented that the padre Junipero Serra celebrated mass.
One of the best known of the Alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया मिशन ( और एक of the few मिशन to have दरअसल महरूम संस्थापित twice—others being Mission San Gabriel Arcángel and Mission La Purísima Concepción ).
The site was originally consecrated on अक्तूबर 30, 1775, by पिता fermín lasuén, लकिन was quickly abandoned due to unrest among the indigenous population in San Diego.
The success of the उपनिवेश is evident in its historical records.
Prior to the arrival of the missionaries, कुछ 550 natives यहूद बिखरे throughout the लोकल क्षेत्रफल.
By 1790, the number of परिवर्तित ईसाइयों था grown to 700, और बस छह सालो बाद nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( recent converts ) lived in or around the Mission compound.
1,649 baptisms were conducted that year alone, out of the total 4,639 souls परिवर्तित between 1776 और 1847.
More than 2,000 former inhabitants ( mostly Juaneño Indians ) are buried in unmarked क़ब्रों in the मिशन 's कब्रिस्तान ( campo santo ).
The remains of Father ( later Monsignor ) St. John O'Sullivan, who recognized the property 's historic value and working tirelessly to conserve and rebuild its structures, are buried at the entrance to the कब्रिस्तान on the वेस्ट पक्ष of the प्रॉपर्टी, और a प्रतिमा उठाया in उसके सम्मान स्टैंड at the सिर of the क्रिप्ट.
The surviving chapel also serves as the final resting place of three padres who passed on while serving at the Mission : Fathers José barona, विसेंट fustér, और विसेंट पास्कुआल oliva हैं सब entombed beneath the अभयारण्य floor.
The Criolla or `` Mission grape, '' was first planted at सैन जुआन capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783, the पहला वाइन उत्पादित in alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया emerged from the Mission 's winery.
The Mission entered a long period of क्रमिक मनाही बाद secularization in 1833.
Numerous प्रयत्न यहूद बना over the सालो to restore the Mission to its former glory, but none met with great success until the arrival of Father O'Sullivan in 1910.
Restoration efforts continue, और `` सेरा 's चैपल '' is स्टिल प्रयुक्त लिये धार्मिक services.
About half-a-million विज़िटर, सहित 80,000 स्कूल children, come to the Mission each year.
And while the ruins of `` The Great Stone Church '' ( which was all but leveled by an 1812 earthquake ) are a renowned architectural wonder, the Mission is शायद बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये the सालाना `` वापसी of the Swallows '' which is traditionally observed every March 19 ( Saint Joseph 's Day ).
Mission San Juan Capistrano has served as a पसंदीदा विषय लिये अनेक notable कलाकारों, और रै महरूम immortalized in साहित्य and on film numerous times, perhaps more than any other mission.
In 1984, a आधुनिक गिरिजाघर जटिल थी constructed बस उत्तर और वेस्ट of the मिशन compound and is now known as Mission Basilica San Juan Capistrano.
Today, the mission compound serves as a संग्रहालय, साथ the सेरा चैपल भीतर the यौगिक सेवारत as a chapel for the mission parish.
Better Off मुर्दे is a 1985 अमरीकी टीन रोमांटिक कॉमेडी फिल्मी अभिनीत जॉन Cusack and written and directed by Savage Steve Holland.
It tells the story of high school student लेन myer जो is suicidal बाद उसके गर्लफ्रेंड breaks up with him.
Mercedes-Benz Superdome ( originally Louisiana Superdome and commonly the superdome ) is a खेल और प्रदर्शनी स्टेडियम, स्तिथ in the सेंट्रल Business District of New Orleans, Louisiana, USA.
Plans were drawn up in 1967, by the नई ऑरलियन्स modernist architectural firm of Curtis and Davis.
Its steel फ़्रेम कवर a expanse.
Its dome is made of a lamella multi-ringed फ़्रेम और रै a व्यास of, making it the largest fixed domed structure in the world.
It is home to the NFL 's New Orleans Saints, the NCAA 's Division I-A Tulane Green Wave football team ( the largest football स्टेडियम in सम्मेलन यूएसए ), the राज्य फार्म bayou क्लासिक, the r+l वाहक नई ऑरलियन्स कटोरी, the allstate शुगर कटोरी और, प्रत्येक चौथी year, the BCS National Championship Game.
Because of the size and स्थान in एक of the प्रमुख पर्यटक गंतव्यों in the United States, the Superdome routinely makes the `` short list '' of candidates being considered for major sporting events, such as the Super Bowl and the Final Four.
In 2005, the Superdome gained international ध्यान of a अलग प्रकार जब it housed हज़ारों of लोगों seeking आश्रय from Hurricane Katrina.
The building suffered extensive क्षति as a परिणाम of the तूफ़ान, और थी closed for many months afterward.
On October 3, 2011, it was announced that German automaker mercedes-benz खरीदा नामकरण अधिकारों to the stadium.
The new नाम took effect on October 23, 2011.
It is the third stadium that has naming rights from Mercedes-Benz ( and first in the United States ), बाद the mercedes-benz एरिना, the stadium of Bundesliga club VfB Stuttgart, in Stuttgart, Germany and the Mercedes-Benz Arena in Shanghai, China.
लॉबी of जम्बो हाउस
Giraffe on the savannah at जम्बो House
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is an african-themed डीलक्स रिज़ॉर्ट at the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी World Resort.
It opened on अप्रैल 16, 2001.
The resort is owned and operated by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी पार्क and Resorts.
Disney 's एनिमल किंगडम आवास is स्तिथ in the एनिमल किंगडम Resort Area, adjacent to Disney 's Animal Kingdom.
It gives अतिथि the अवसर to दृश्य चरने वन्यजीव बाहर उनके कक्ष और पब्लिक क्षेत्रों in the रिज़ॉर्ट भीतर निकटता of the पशु, conveying the feeling of being in an African savanna.
The People 's Party, also known as the `` Populists '', was a short-lived राजनैतिक पार्टी in the संयुक्त राज्य स्थापित in 1891 दौरान the populist गति ( संयुक्त राज्य, 19th सदी ).
It was most important in 1892-96, और तब rapidly धुंधली दूर.
Based among poor, white cotton farmers in the South ( especially North Carolina, अलबामा, और टेक्सास ) और hard-pressed गेहूं किसानो in the मैदान राज्य ( विशेषकर कान्सास और नेब्रास्का ), it represented a कट्टरपंथी crusading रूप of agrarianism और hostility to banks, railroads, and elites generally.
It sometimes formed coalitions with labor संघ, और in 1896 the डेमोक्रेट endorsed उनके अध्यक्षीय nominee, William Jennings Bryan.
The terms `` populist '' and `` populism `` हैं commonly प्रयुक्त लिये anti-elitist appeals in विपक्ष to स्थापित रूचि और mainstream parties.
भाषाई मैप of सीरियल, कैमरून, and Benin.
चिह्न in अंग्रेज़ी, बाहर the University of Lagos
There are सैंकड़ों of भाषाएं बोला in Nigeria.
The major languages are Yoruba, हौसा, इग्बो, ईदो, fulfulde, कनूरी, and Ibibio.
The official language of Nigeria, English, the former colonial भाषा, थी चुनी to सुकर the सांस्कृतिक and linguistic unity of the country.
English, however, remains an exclusive preserve of the country 's शहरी elite, और is नहीं widely बोला in ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों, जिससे comprise तीन quarters of the countries population.
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a पूरे, encompassing तीन प्रमुख अफ़्रीकी भाषाएं परिवारों : afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, and Niger–Congo.
Nigeria also has अनेक as-yet unclassified भाषाएं, ऐसे as cen tuum, जिससे may represent a relic of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the current language families.
A series of events led to the आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर.
War between Japan and the United States had been a possibility that each nation 's सैन्य शक्तियां नियोजित लिये चूंकि the 1920s, हालांकि रियल टेंशन किया नहीं शुरू जबतक the 1931 आक्रमण of Manchuria by Japan.
Over the अगला दशक, जापानी विस्तारित धीरे into चीन, leading to all out war between the two in 1937.
In 1940 जापानी invaded फ्रेंच इंडोचायना in an प्रयत्न to embargo सब imports into चीन, including war supplies purchased from the U.S.
This move prompted the United States to embargo all oil exports, leading the Imperial Japanese Navy to estimate कि it था कम than दो सालो of बंकर आयल बाकी और to support the मौजूदा योजनाएँ to seize आयल संसाधन in the Dutch East Indies.
Planning had been underway for some time on an attack on the `` Southern संसाधन क्षेत्रफल '' to add it to the वृहद ईस्ट एशिया co-prosperity गोला कि जापानी envisioned in the Pacific.
The Philippine islands, at that समय an अमरीकी territory, यहूद भी a जापानी target.
The जापानी सैन्य concluded कि an आक्रमण of the Philippines would provoke an American military response.
Rather than seize and fortify the islands, and wait for the अपरिहार्य us counterattack, जापानी 's सैन्य नेताओ बजाय decided on the pre-emptive पर्ल हार्बर आक्रमण, which they assumed would negate the American forces needed for the liberation and reconquest of the islands.
Planning for the attack had begun in बहुत जल्दी 1941, by admiral isoroku यामामोटो.
He finally won assent from the नवल ऊँची कमांड by, among अन्य बाते, threatening to resign.
The attack was approved in the summer at an इम्पीरियल सम्मेलन and again at a second Conference in the fall.
simultaneously over the साल, पायलटों were trained, and ships prepared for its execution.
Authority for the attack was granted at the second इम्पीरियल सम्मेलन if a राजनयिक परिणाम संतोषजनक to Japan was not reached.
बाद फाइनल स्वीकृति by सम्राट हिरोहितो the अनुक्रम to attack was issued at the beginning of December.
A common दफ्तर stapler
A आम स्कूल stapler
A stapler is a mechanical device that joins sheets of paper or similar material by ड्राइविंग a पतला मेटल स्टेपल through the चादरें और फोल्डिंग the ends.
Staplers are widely used in सरकारी, कारोबार, कार्यालयों, घरों and schools.
The word `` stapler '' can दरअसल refer to a क्रमांक of अलग devices of varying uses.
in जोड to joining पेपर चादरें साथ, staplers can भी be प्रयुक्त in a surgical setting to join tissue together with surgical staples to close a surgical wound ( much in the same way as stitches or sutures ).
Typically, most staplers हैं प्रयुक्त to जुड़ें अनेक चादरें of paper.
Paper staplers आइये in दो पृथक प्रकार : हस्तचालित और electric.
Manual staplers are सामान्यतः hand-held, हालांकि मॉडल that are used while set on a desk or other surface are not uncommon.
इलेक्ट्रिक staplers मौजूद in a variety of different designs and models.
Their primary operating फलन is to जुड़ें विशाल संख्याएँ of पेपर चादरें साथ in rapid succession.
Some electric staplers can जुड़ें up to 20 चादरें at a समय.
Swallowing, known scientifically as deglutition, is the process in the इंसान or एनिमल देह कि makes कुछ pass इससे the मुँह, to the pharynx, and into the esophagus, while shutting the epiglottis.
If this fails and the object goes through the trachea, then choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur.
In the इंसान देह it is नियंत्रित by the swallowing reflex.
Thaddeus Stevens ( April 4, 1792 – August 11, 1868 ), of पेन्सिलवेनिया, थी a नेता of the कट्टरपंथी रिपब्लिकन गुट of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी and a fierce opponent of slavery.
He was one of the most influential सदस्यों in the इतिहास of Congress.
As chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee, Stevens, a witty, व्यंग्यात्मक स्पीकर और flamboyant पार्टी नेता, वर्चस्व the हाउस इससे 1861 जबतक उसके मौत.
He wrote much of the वित्तीय विधान कि सशुल्क लिये the American Civil War.
Stevens and Senator Charles Sumner were the प्रधान नेताओ of the कट्टरपंथी republicans दौरान the युद्ध और Reconstruction era.
Scholarly views of Stevens have swung sharply चूंकि उसके मौत as interpretations of पुनर्निर्माण have changed.
Historians of the Dunning School ( 1890s–1940s ) आयोजित स्टीवंस जिम्मेदार लिये demanding हर्ष उपचार of the श्वेत दक्षिण और violating अमरीकी परंपराओं of republicanism, depicting Stevens as a villain for his advocacy of harsh measures in the South such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates.
This highly ऋणात्मक characterization held sway into the 1950s.
The rise of the neo-abolitionist school in the 1950s led to a दमदार धनात्मक सराहना of स्टीवंस ' कार्य on सिविल rights for Freedmen.
A recent biographer characterizes him as, `` The Great Commoner, savior of free public education in Pennsylvania, national Republican leader in the struggles against slavery in the United राज्य और intrepid mainstay of the attempt to सुरक्षित जातिगत इंसाफ लिये the freedmen दौरान पुनर्निर्माण, the तभी सदस्य of the हाउस of Representatives ever to have been known as the 'dictator ' of Congress. ''
Overview of the अनुवाद of eukaryotic messenger RNA
Diagram showing the translation of mRNA and the संश्लेषण of प्रोटीन by a राइबोसोम
In molecular biology and genetics, अनुवाद is the प्रक्रम through जिससे सेल्यूलर ribosomes manufacture proteins.
It is part of the प्रक्रम of जीन expression.
in अनुवाद, मेसेंजर rna ( mrna ) उत्पादित by ट्रांसक्रिप्शन is decoded by the राइबोसोम to उपज a विशिष्ट अमीनो एसिड कड़ी, or polypeptide, that will later fold into an active protein.
In bacteria, अनुवाद occurs in the कोशिका 's कोशिकाद्रव्य, जहाँ the विशाल and small subunits of the ribosome are located, and bind to the mRNA.
In eukaryotes, अनुवाद occurs आरपार the झिल्ली of the endoplasmic reticulum in a process called vectorial synthesis.
The ribosome facilitates decoding by inducing the बाइंडिंग of trnas साथ पूरक anticodon sequences to कि of the mRNA.
The tRNAs carry specific amino acids कि हैं chained साथ into a polypeptide as the mrna गुजरता through और is `` पढ़ा '' by the ribosome in a fashion reminiscent to that of a stock ticker and ticker tape.
In many instances, the entire ribosome/mRNA complex binds to the बाहरी झिल्ली of the अशिष्ट endoplasmic reticulum और रिलीज the nascent प्रोटीन polypeptide inside for later vesicle transport and secretion outside of the cell.
Many types of transcribed rna, ऐसे as ट्रांसफ़र rna, ribosomal rna, और छोटी नाभिकीय RNA, do not undergo translation into proteins.
Translation proceeds in four phases : दीक्षा, elongation, translocation और termination ( सब describing the विकास of the अमीनो acid chain, or polypeptide that is the product of translation ).
Amino acids are brought to ribosomes और समवेत into प्रोटीन.
In activation, the correct अमीनो एसिड is covalently बंधुआ to the correct transfer RNA ( tRNA ).
The amino acid is joined by इसके carboxyl समूह to the 3 ' oh of the trna by an ester bond.
When the tRNA has an अमीनो एसिड linked to it, it is termed `` charged ''.
Initiation involves the छोटी subunit of the राइबोसोम बाइंडिंग to the 5 ' end of mRNA with the help of initiation factors ( IF ).
Termination of the polypeptide happens जब the a साईट of the ribosome faces a stop codon ( UAA, UAG, or UGA ).
No tRNA can recognize or bind to इस codon.
बजाय, the रोकें codon induces the बाइंडिंग of a रिलीज फ़ैक्टर प्रोटीन कि prompts the disassembly of the entire ribosome/mRNA complex.
A number of antibiotics act by inhibiting translation ; these include anisomycin, cycloheximide, chloramphenicol, tetracycline, streptomycin, erythromycin, और puromycin, among अन्य.
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a different structure from that of eukaryotic ribosomes, and thus एंटीबायोटिक can specifically निशाना बैक्टीरियल infections बगैर कोई detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells.
A मल्टीमीडिया संदेश on a mobile phone.
Multimedia Messaging सेवा ( mms ) is a मानक रास्ता to भेजें संदेश कि शामिल मल्टीमीडिया सामग्री to and from mobile phones.
It extends the core SMS ( Short Message Service ) capability that allowed exchange of text संदेश तभी up to 160 वर्ण in लंबाई.
The सबसे लोकप्रिय उपयोग is to भेजें छायाचित्र इससे camera-equipped handsets, हालांकि it is also popular as a method of delivering news and entertainment content including videos, pictures, text pages and ringtones.
The standard is developed by the Open Mobile Alliance ( ओमो ), हालांकि दौरान विकास it थी भाग of the 3gpp and WAP groups.
Smallpox was an संक्रामक बीमारी अद्वितीय to इंसानो, caused by either of दो वायरस विसंगतियाँ, Variola major and Variola minor.
The disease is also known by the Latin names Variola or variola वीरा, निकला इससे varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` pimple '' ).
The disease was originally ज्ञात in अंग्रेज़ी as the `` चेचक '' or `` रेड प्लेग '' ; the पद `` smallpox '' थी पहला प्रयुक्त in ब्रिटेन in the 15th सदी to distinguish variola from the `` great pox '' ( syphilis ).
The last naturally occurring case of smallpox ( variola नाबालिग ) थी diagnosed on 26 October 1977.
Smallpox स्थानीयकृत in छोटी रक्त बरतन of the स्किन and in the mouth and throat.
In the स्किन it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular rash and, later, raised fluid-filled blisters.
V. major produces a more गंभीर बीमारी और रै an overall mortality rate of 30–35 %.
V. minor causes a milder form of disease ( also known as alastrim, cottonpox, milkpox, whitepox, और क्यूबन खुजली ) जिससे मारता परिचय 1 % of इसके victims.
long-term जटिलताओं of V. प्रमुख संक्रमण शामिल characteristic scars, commonly on the face, which occur in 65–85 % of survivors.
Blindness resulting from corneal ulceration और scarring, और limb deformities due to गठिया and osteomyelitis are less common complications, seen in about 2–5 % of cases.
Smallpox is believed to have उभरा in human populations about 10,000 BC.
The earliest physical evidence of it is संभवतः the pustular खाज on the mummified देह of Pharaoh Ramses V of Egypt.
The disease killed an estimated 400,000 europeans annually दौरान the closing सालो of the 18th सदी ( सहित five reigning monarchs ), and was responsible for a third of all blindness.
Of all those infected, 20–60 % —and over 80 % of संक्रमित children—died इससे the disease.
Smallpox was responsible for an अनुमानित 300–500 लाख मौतों दौरान the 20th century.
As recently as 1967, the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन ( जो ) अनुमानित कि 15 लाख people contracted the disease and that two million died in that year.
After vaccination campaigns throughout the 19th and 20th सदियां, the जो certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979.
Smallpox is one of two infectious diseases to have been eradicated, the अन्य होने rinderpest, जिससे थी घोषित eradicated in 2011.
`` I Want to Hold अपना हाथ '' is a सोंग by the अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान band the Beatles.
Written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney, and अंकित in अक्तूबर 1963, it थी the पहला बीटल्स रिकार्ड to be बना using four-track equipment.
With advance orders exceeding one million copies in the United Kingdom, `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' would ordinarily have gone straight to the top of the British record charts on its day of release ( 29 November 1963 ) had it not been अवरोधित by the समूह 's पहला लाख विक्रेता `` वो loves तुम ``, the बीटल्स ' पिछला uk सिंगल, जिससे थी having a resurgent वर्तनी in the शीर्ष स्थिति following तीव्र मीडिया कवरेज of the group.
Taking two weeks to dislodge its predecessor, `` I want to थाम अपना हाथ '' ठहरे at क्रमांक एक लिये पाँच सप्ताह और remained in the UK top fifty for twenty-one weeks in total.
It was also the group 's first अमरीकी क्रमांक एक, प्रवेश the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट on 18 जनवरी 1964 at number forty-five and starting the British invasion of the American music industry.
By 1 February it held the number one spot — for seven weeks — before being replaced by `` She Loves You '', a रिवर्स परिदृश्य of कया था occurred in ब्रिटेन, और remained in the us चार्ट लिये a कुल of fifteen weeks.
`` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' became the बीटल्स ' best-selling सिंगल विश्वव्यापी.
A gasser was a type of hot rod originating on the dragstrips of the संयुक्त राज्य in the लेट 1950s और जारी जबतक the जल्दी 1970s.
Gassers were based on production models from the 1930s to mid-1960s, which have been stripped of extraneous वज़न और jacked up using a ट्रक बीम धुरी to provide बेहतर वज़न वितरण on त्वरण ( बीम axles हैं भी हल्का than an स्वतंत्र सामने बर्खास्तगी ), though a raised stock front suspension is common as well.
Common weight reduction techniques शामिल fiberglass देह panels, stripped इंटीरियर्स and plexiglass windows ( sometimes color tinted ).
Because they were primarily built for racing, these cars typically had the engine swapped to a larger or अधिक शक्तिशाली एक, the मौजूदा भण्डार इंजन परिवर्धित ( प्रायः heavily ) or both.
It was very common to fit a Roots supercharger और mechanical ईंधन इंजेक्शन, ऐसे as एक इससे algon, Hilborn, or Crower.
With form being dictated by function, their appearance is often very top heavy and ungainly, largely due to सामने ends होने उठाया उच्चतर than भण्डार, to assist in the weight transfer during rapid acceleration ( racing ).
Having their exhaust pipes exit through the front fender well is a आम characteristic of gassers, as is having लाशें चित्रित in flamboyant metalflakes, मोती, और कैंडी finishes complemented by lettering in wild fonts.
the नाम arose क्युकी वे competed in a गैसोलीन -fueled drag racing class, rather than one using methanol or nitromethane.
The gasser is the पूर्ववर्ती of the modern Funny Car.
twelve-lead ईकेजी of a 26-year-old male
Electrocardiography ( ECG or EKG from ) is a transthoracic ( आरपार the वक्ष or छाती ) निर्वचन of the विद्युत कार्यकलाप of the heart over a period of time, as detected by electrodes attached to the surface of the skin and recorded by a device external to the body.
The recording produced by this noninvasive procedure is termed an electrocardiogram ( भी ECG or EKG ).
An ECG is used to measure the rate and regularity of heartbeats, as खूब as the आकार और स्थिति of the कक्षों, the उपस्थिति of कोई क्षति to the heart, and the effects of drugs or devices used to regulate the heart, such as a pacemaker.
Most ECGs हैं performed लिये निदान or शोध उद्देश्य on इंसान दिल, लकिन may भी be performed on animals, usually for diagnosis of heart abnormalities or research.
Donald John Trump, Sr. ( born जून 14, 1946 ) is an अमरीकी कारोबार महारथी, टेलीविज़न personality and author.
He is the chairman and president of The Trump संगठन और the संस्थापक of ट्रम्प entertainment रिसॉर्ट.
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle, outspoken manner, और भूमिका on the एनबीसी वास्तविकता दिखाएँ the प्रशिक्षु have made him a well-known celebrity who was No. 14 on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list.
Trump is the son of Fred ट्रम्प, a धनवान नई यॉर्क नगर real-estate डेवलपर.
He worked for his father 's firm, Elizabeth Trump & Son, while उपस्थित the व्हार्टन स्कूल of the विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया, और in 1968 officially joined the company.
He was दिए कंट्रोल of the कम्पनी in 1971 and renamed it The Trump Organization.
In 2010, Trump expressed an ब्याज in बनने a प्रत्याशी लिये अध्यक्ष of the United States in the 2012 election, though in May 2011, he announced he would not be a candidate.
In December 2011, Trump was suggested as a possible vice अध्यक्षीय चयन by मिशेल bachmann, if वो यहूद to जीत the रिपब्लिकन nomination.
`` A Change Is Gon na Come '' is a 1964 single by R & B singer-songwriter Sam Cooke, लिखा और पहला अंकित in 1963 and released under the RCA Victor label shortly after his death in late 1964.
Though only a modest hit लिये cooke in comparison with his previous singles, the song came to exemplify the 1960s ' Civil Rights Movement.
The song has gained in लोकप्रियता और नाजुक acclaim in the decades since its release, and is # 12 on Rolling Stone 's 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
Steam rising from the nesjavellir geothermal शक्ति स्टेशन in Iceland.
Geothermal energy is thermal उर्जा उत्पन्न और भंडारित in the Earth.
Thermal उर्जा is the उर्जा कि determines the temperature of matter.
The Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the असली गठन of the ग्रह ( 20 % ) और इससे रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय of minerals ( 80 % ).
the geothermal अनुपात, जिससे is the अंतर in तापमान between the core of the planet and its surface, drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface.
The क्रियाशील geothermal originates इससे the यूनानी जड़ें γη ( ge ), meaning earth, and θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the core of the Earth, thermal energy is निर्मित by रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय और temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts from the core to surrounding कूलर चट्टान.
The high temperature and pressure cause some rock to melt, बनाना मैग्मा संवहन upward चूंकि it is हल्का than the solid rock.
The magma heats चट्टान और जल in the क्रस्ट, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
From hot springs, geothermal उर्जा रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये स्नान चूंकि paleolithic टाइम्स और लिये स्पेस हीटिंग चूंकि ancient Roman times, but it is now better known for electricity generation.
Worldwide, परिचय 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal power is online in 24 countries.
an अतिरिक्त 28 gigawatts of सीधा geothermal हीटिंग क्षमता is संस्थापित for district heating, space heating, spas, industrial processes, desalination and agricultural applications.
Geothermal power is cost effective, reliable, sustainable, and environmentally दोस्ताना, लकिन रै historically महरूम सीमित to क्षेत्रों निकट tectonic थाली सीमाएँ.
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable resources, विशेषकर लिये अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as घर हीटिंग, खोलने a संभावित लिये widespread exploitation.
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep भीतर the धरती, but these emissions are much lower per energy unit than those of fossil fuels.
As a result, geothermal शक्ति रै the संभावित to सहायता mitigate global warming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels.
The Earth 's geothermal संसाधन हैं theoretically अधिक than पर्याप्त to सप्लाई मानवता 's उर्जा needs, but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited.
Drilling and खोजी लिये गहन संसाधन is बहुत महंगी.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal शक्ति निर्भर on assumptions परिचय प्रौद्योगिकी, उर्जा कीमतें, subsidies, and interest rates.
Pilot programs like EWEB 's ग्राहक ऑप्ट in ग्रीन शक्ति कार्यक्रम दिखाएँ कि ग्राहक होता be willing to pay a little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal.
But as a परिणाम of सरकारी assisted शोध और उद्योग अनुभव, the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades.
In 2001, geothermal उर्जा लागत between दो और टेन सेंट per kwh.
Ownership of प्रॉपर्टी may be निजी, सामूहिक, or आम और the प्रॉपर्टी may be objects, land/real estate, or intellectual property.
Determining ownership in law involves determining who has certain अधिकारों और कर्तव्य over the प्रॉपर्टी.
These rights and duties, sometimes called a 'bundle of अधिकारों ', can be अलग and held by different parties.
The question of ownership reaches back to the ancient philosophers, प्लेटो और अरस्तू, जो आयोजित अलग राय on the subject.
Plato ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) thought निजी प्रॉपर्टी निर्मित divisive inequalities, जबकि अरस्तू ( 384 bc – 322 bc ) विचार निजी प्रॉपर्टी सक्रिय लोगों to receive the full benefit of their labor.
Private property can circumvent what is now referred to as the “ त्रासदी of the कॉमन्स ” प्रॉब्लम, जहाँ लोगों tend to रुसवा आम प्रॉपर्टी more than they do private property.
Given a short-sighted owner, however, a private property system can make these tragedies worse—for उदाहरण, a निजी मालिक of a टुकड़ा of oil-rich प्रॉपर्टी, depending on उसके worldview, might be अधिक दिलचस्पी in short-term वित्तीय लाभ than वृद्धिशील उपयोग साथ an eye toward other 's concerns ( e.g., those of future generations, the disenfranchised, etc. ).
While Aristotle justified the existence of private ownership, he बाएँ खोलें सवाल of ( 1 ) कैसा to allocate प्रॉपर्टी between कया is निजी और आम और ( 2 ) how to allocate the private property within society.
Over the millennia, and across cultures what can be प्रॉपर्टी और कैसा it is regarded culturally have varied widely.
Ownership is the basis for many other concepts that form the foundations of ancient and आधुनिक समाजों ऐसे as धन, व्यापार, कर्ज़, दिवालियापन, the criminality of चोरी, और निजी vs. पब्लिक प्रॉपर्टी.
Ownership is the key भवन ब्लाक in the विकास of the पूंजीवादी socio-economic system.
Adam Smith stated कि एक of the पवित्र कानून of justice was to guard a person 's property and possessions.
The process and mechanics of स्वामित्व हैं fairly जटिल : एक can लाभ, ट्रांसफ़र और lose ownership of property in a number of ways.
To acquire प्रॉपर्टी एक can खरीदें it साथ धन, व्यापार it लिये अन्य प्रॉपर्टी, प्राप्त it as a gift, steal it, find it, make, it or homestead it.
One can transfer or lose ownership of property by selling it for money, exchanging it for other property, giving it as a gift, being robbed of it, it, or having it stripped इससे एक 's स्वामित्व through विधिक अर्थात् ऐसे as eviction, foreclosure, seizure, or taking.
Ownership is self-propagating in that the owner of कोई प्रॉपर्टी होगा भी अपना the आर्थिक लाभ of that property.
`` What 's My Name ? '' is a song अंकित by barbadian रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार रिहाना, लिये उसके पांचवां studio album Loud ( 2010 ).
Featuring guest vocals from Canadian rapper Drake, the song was released as the दूसरी सिंगल इससे लाउड on अक्तूबर 29, 2010 through डेफ Jam Recordings.
The R & B song was produced by the Norwegian production duo StarGate, and was लिखा by the duo साथ साथ ester डीन, traci hale, और ड्रेक.
Lyrically, it incorporates विषयवस्तु of यौन मैथुन और रोमांस.
Music critics gave the song positive reviews, citing it some of Rihanna 's best vocal work to date ; there was a praise regarding इसके रोमांटिक प्रकृति, as खूब as इसके यौन टोन.
`` What 's My Name ? '' was a commercial success and topped the US Billboard Hot 100 chart, giving रिहाना उसके तीसरा number-one सिंगल in 2010, as खूब as उसके आठवीं overall on the चार्ट.
The song भी अव्वल the चार्ट in हंगेरियाई और the संयुक्त किंगडम और पहुँचे the शीर्ष पाँच in कनाडा, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway and Slovakia.
The song received a नामांकन at the 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Rap/Sung Collaboration.
An accompanying म्यूज़िक वीडियो, निर्देशित by फिलिप andelman, portrays a रोमांटिक एनकाउंटर between रिहाना और ड्रेक in a grocery store along with romantic scenes between the pair and Rihanna walking through Manhattan 's Lower East Side.
`` What 's My Name ? '' was promoted with live performances across both पहलू of the अटलांटिक, सहित शनिवार रात्रि सजीव in अमेरिका और the श्रेणी सात finale of the x फ़ैक्टर in the United Kingdom.
The latter performance resulted in an investigation इससे the देश 's मीडिया नियामक, ofcom, लिये the raunchy nature of Rihanna 's outfit.
A mathematical निरंतर is a खास क्रमांक, प्रायः a real number, that is `` significantly interesting in some way ''.
स्थिरांक उठता in अनेक अलग क्षेत्रों of गणित, with constants such as e ( mathematical constant ) | and pi| occurring in such diverse contexts as geometry, number theory and calculus.
What it means लिये a निरंतर to उठता `` naturally '', और कया makes a निरंतर `` दिलचस्प '', is ultimately a पदार्थ of स्वाद, और कुछ गणितीय constants are notable more for historical reasons than for their intrinsic mathematical interest.
The more popular constants have been studied throughout the आयु और computed to अनेक decimal places.
All mathematical constants are definable numbers and usually are also computable संख्याएँ ( chaitin 's निरंतर होने a significant exception ).
Elections to the United राज्य सीनेट यहूद आयोजित on नवम्बर 2, 2010, for 37 of the United States Senate 's 100 seats.
( A special election on January 19, 2010 in मैसाचुसेट्स थी आयोजित पहले in the year. )
thirty-four of the सीटे यहूद लिये six-year शर्तें to the सीनेट 's `` class three '', and three were special elections for shorter terms.
Of the 37 elections, 19 featured लाज़िम डेमोक्रेट ( 7 of जिसको रिटायर्ड or यहूद पराजित in the प्राथमिक ) और 18 featured incumbent Republicans ( eight of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ).
After the पिछला चुनावों ( in 2008 ), the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट थी रचित of 58 डेमोक्रेट, 40 Republicans, and 2 independents who caucus with the Democrats.
Republicans won four seats held by retiring डेमोक्रेट और republicans पराजित दो लाज़िम डेमोक्रेट.
This was the largest number of Republicans gains since the 1994 elections and also the first समय चूंकि कि चुनाव कि republicans सफलतापूर्वक defended सब of their own seats.
This was the चौथी लगातार चुनाव of `` क्लास 3 '' सीनेटरों जहाँ डेमोक्रेट have विफल to लाभ सीटे और the तीसरा consecutive mid-term election held in a president 's first term where Republicans have picked-up seats.
Despite these Republican wins, however, the Democrats retained a majority of the सीनेट साथ 51 सीटे प्लस 2 independents जो caucus साथ उन्हें, compared to the 47 Republicans.
A संक्रांति is an खगोलीय इवेंट कि occurs twice प्रत्येक साल as the सूर्य पहुँच इसके उच्चतम or न्यूनतम excursion relative to the celestial equator on the celestial sphere.
As a result, on the day of the solstice, the Sun appears to have पहुँचे इसके उच्चतम or न्यूनतम सालाना ऊँचाई in the आसमान ऊपर the horizon at local solar noon.
The word solstice is derived from the Latin sol ( sun ) and sistere ( to stand still ), क्युकी at the solstices, the सूर्य स्टैंड स्टिल in उतार ; कि is, the मौसमी गति of the सूर्य 's पाथ ( as seen from Earth ) comes to a stop before reversing direction.
The solstices, together with the equinoxes, are कनेक्ट साथ the सीज़न.
In many cultures the solstices चिह्नित either the शुरूआत or the midpoint of winter and summer.
The पद संक्रांति can भी be प्रयुक्त in a broader भाव, as the date ( day ) when this occurs.
The day of the संक्रांति is either the longest दिन of the साल ( in गर्मियाँ ) or the shortest day of the year ( in winter ) for any place outside of the tropics.
Jerry ली लुईस ( born सितंबर 29, 1935 ) is an अमरीकी चट्टान and roll and country music singer-songwriter and pianist.
He is known by the nickname `` The Killer '' and is प्रायः viewed as “rock & फेंकें 's पहला ग्रेट wild man”.
An early pioneer of rock and roll music, in 1956 लुईस बना उसके पहला रिकार्डिंग at सूर्य Records.
`` Crazy बाहें `` बेची 300,000 नक़ल in the दक्षिण, लकिन it थी उसके 1957 hit `` पूरे lotta Shakin ' Going On `` that shot Lewis to fame worldwide.
Lewis followed इस in कि वही साल जब he अंकित गीतों ऐसे as `` Great Balls of Fire ``, `` Breathless `` and `` High School Confidential ``.
Lewis sold more records than एल्विस प्रेस्ली at इस time.
However, Lewis ' rock 'n ' फेंकें करियर faltered in the वेक of his marriage to his young cousin.
He had little success in the charts following the scandal और उसके लोकप्रियता जल्दी धुंधली.
His सजीव प्रदर्शन शुल्क plummeted from $ 10,000 per night to $ 250.
in the meantime he थी संकल्पित to gain back some of his popularity.
During the early 60’s he किया n't have much चार्ट कामयाबी साथ few अपवाद such as `` What 'd I Say ``.
His live प्रदर्शन at इस समय यहूद increasingly wild and energetic.
His album Live at the Star क्लबों, हैम्बर्ग इससे 1964 is प्रायः regarded by अनेक म्यूज़िक पत्रकारों और fans as one of the wildest and greatest rock and roll concert albums ever.
After recording गीतों ऐसे as `` i 'm on आग '' लिये अनेक सालो साथ छोटी कामयाबी, in 1968 लुईस बना a परिवर्तन into country music and had hits with songs such as `` Another Place, Another Time ''.
This reignited उसके करियर और throughout the late '60s and '70s he regularly topped the country-western charts.
His # 1 country hits included `` To Make Love Sweeter For You ``, `` There Must Be More to Love than इस ``, `` होता तुम लो another मौका on Me `` and `` Me And Bobby McGee ``.
Lewis 's successes continued throughout the decade and he embraced his rock 'n ' roll past with songs ऐसे as a कवर of the बिग bopper 's `` chantilly फीता `` and `` Rockin ' My Life Away ``.
In the 21st century Lewis continues to दौरे to ऑडियंस around the संसार and still releases new albums.
One such album, titled पिछला man खड़ा, is उसके बेहतरीन selling to तिथि at over a million copies sold worldwide.
This was followed by औसत बूढ़ा man जिससे रै प्राप्त कुछ of the best sales of Lewis’s career.
Lewis has had a दर्जन सुनहरा रिकॉर्ड in दोनो चट्टान और देश, जीती अनेक ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, including a Lifetime Achievement Award.
Lewis was inducted into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति in 1986, और उसके pioneering contribution to the genre has been recognized by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame.
In 1989, his life was chronicled in the फिल्म ग्रेट गेंदें of आग, अभिनीत Dennis Quaid.
In 2003, Rolling Stone Magazine listed his box set All Killer, No फिलर : the anthology क्रमांक 242 on उनके सूची of `` 500 महानतम एल्बम of all time ``.
In 2004, they ranked him number 24 on उनके सूची of the 100 महानतम Artists of All Time.
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun Records ' लाख डालर quartet और the क्लास of '55 एल्बम, जिससे भी शामिल जॉनी नकदी, कार्ल perkins, Roy Orbison and Elvis Presley.
Henry लुई स्टीफंस, बेनाम watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man पढना a newspaper with headline `` Presidential Proclamation / Slavery ''.
The Emancipation Proclamation was an order issued to all segments of the कार्यपालिका शाखा ( सहित the फौज और नेवी ) of the संयुक्त राज्य by अध्यक्ष Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863, during the American Civil War.
It was based on the president 's constitutional authority as कमांडर in मुख्य of the हथियारबंद शक्तियां ; it थी नहीं a विधि passed by Congress.
It proclaimed all those enslaved in confederate territory to be forever फ़्री, और ordered the फौज ( और सब खण्ड of the कार्यपालिका शाखा ) to दावत as free all those enslaved in ten states that were still in rebellion, thus applying to 3.1 million of the 4 million slaves in the U.S.
The Proclamation could not be enforced in क्षेत्रों स्टिल अंतर्गत विद्रोह, लकिन as the फौज took कंट्रोल of confederate regions, the स्लेव in those regions were emancipated rather than returned to their masters.
From 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in regions where rebellion had already been subdued were तत्काल emancipated, और over 3 लाख अधिक यहूद emancipated as the संघ army advanced.
The Proclamation did not apply to the पाँच स्लेव राज्य कि यहूद नहीं in विद्रोह, nor to सबसे regions already नियंत्रित by the संघ army ; emancipation there would come after separate state actions and/or the December 1865 ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment, which made slavery illegal everywhere in the U.S.
The Proclamation did not compensate the owners, did not itself outlaw slavery, और किया नहीं मेक the ex-slaves ( पुकारा freedmen ) नागरिकों.
It made the eradication of गुलामी an सुस्पष्ट युद्ध लक्ष्य, in addition to the goal of reuniting the Union.
On September 22, 1862, Lincoln had issued a preliminary proclamation that he would order the emancipation of all slaves in any state of the Confederate States of अमेरिका कि किया नहीं वापसी to संघ कंट्रोल by जनवरी 1, 1863.
None returned, and the order, signed and issued January 1, 1863, took प्रभाव मगर in स्थितियाँ जहाँ the संघ था already ज़्यादातर regained कंट्रोल.
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners who envisioned a race war, angered some उत्तरी डेमोक्रेट, सक्रिय anti-slavery शक्तियां, और weakened शक्तियां in यूरोपीय कि चाही to intervene to help the Confederacy.
It also lifted the आत्माओं of अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी दोनो in the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी राज्य, और led to अनेक slaves escaping their masters and running behind Union lines in order to have their emancipation enforced.
Sucker Punch is a 2011 अमरीकी काल्पनिक कार्रवाई फिल्मी निर्देशित by Zack Snyder and co-written by him and Steve Shibuya.
it is स्नाइडर 's पहला फिल्मी based on an original script.
The film stars Emily ब्राउनिंग, abbie cornish, जेना malone, वैनेसा हजेंस, Jamie Chung, and Carla Gugino.
The storyline follows the fantasies of a young स्त्री जो is वचनबद्ध to a दिमागी संस्था, as वो makes a योजना to एस्केप the hospital before suffering a lobotomy.
The film was released in both conventional और imax थिएटर in the संयुक्त राज्य at मध्यरात्रि on March 25, 2011.
It प्राप्त generally ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे critics, but was a moderate box office success.
Front and back of Canon powershot a95, a ठेठ pocket-size digital camera
Haselblad 503cw साथ ixpress v96c डिजिटल वापस, an उदाहरण of a professional digital camera system
A digital camera ( or digicam ) is a कैमरा कि takes वीडियो or स्टिल छायाचित्र by रिकॉर्डिंग images on an electronic image sensor.
Most cameras sold today are digital, and digital cameras are incorporated into अनेक डिवाइस ranging इससे गुस्से और मोबाईल फोन ( पुकारा कैमरा फोन ) to vehicles.
Digital and film cameras share an ऑप्टिकल प्रणाली, typically using a लेंस साथ a variable diaphragm to focus light onto an image pickup device.
The diaphragm and shutter admit the सही राशि of लाइट to the imager, बस as साथ फिल्मी लकिन the image pickup device is electronic rather than chemical.
However, unlike film cameras, digital cameras can प्रदर्शक बिंब on a स्क्रीन तत्काल बाद होने अंकित, और स्टोर और हटाएँ बिंब इससे मेमोरी.
Many डिजिटल कैमरे can also record moving video with sound.
Some digital cameras can क्रॉप और सिलाई तस्वीरें और perform अन्य elementary image editing.
The inside and front of a डेल poweredge वेब सर्वर, a कंप्यूटर designed for rack mounting
Multiple web servers may be used लिये a ऊँची ट्रैफ़िक जालस्थल, यहाँ चार सूर्य आग x4200 servers are installed together
Web server can refer to either the हार्डवेयर ( the कंप्यूटर ) or the तन्त्र ( the कंप्यूटर अनुप्रयोग ) कि helps to उद्धार web content that can be accessed through the Internet.
The most common use of web servers is to मेजबान वेबसाइटों, लकिन वहीँ हैं अन्य उपयोग ऐसे as गेमिंग, आंकड़ा भंडार or कार्यशील enterprise applications.
The American Red Cross ( ARC ), also known as the American National रेड क्रॉस, is a humanitarian संगठन कि provides आपात सहायता, विपत्ति राहत और education inside the United States.
it is the designated u.S. संबद्ध of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
Today, in addition to domestic disaster relief, the American Red Cross offers services in five other areas : community services that सहायता the मोहताज ; संचार सेवाएं और सुकून लिये सैन्य सदस्यों और उनके परिवार सदस्यों ; the संग्रहण, प्रसंस्करण और वितरण of रक्त और रक्त उत्पाद ; शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम on preparedness, स्वास्थ्य, और सुरक्षा ; and international relief and development programs.
Issued a corporate charter by the United States Congress under Title 36 of the United States Code, Section 3001, the American National रेड क्रॉस is governed by स्वयंसेवक और समर्थित by जातियाँ दान, आय इससे स्वास्थ्य और सुरक्षा प्रशिक्षण और products, and income from blood products.
The American Red Cross is headquartered in वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
The Chairman of the फलक of राज्यपालों, सेवारत उसके दूसरी three-year term, is Bonnie McElveen-Hunter.
The वर्तमान अध्यक्ष और मुख्य कार्यपालिका Officer is Gail J. McGovern.
A मुर्गा in कोसोवो
A मुर्गा, प्रर्दशित wattles, earlobes and comb
A rooster crowing ( साथ ऑडियो )
सही
A rooster ( भी पुकारा a cockerel or मुर्गा ) is a male gallinaceous bird.
It usually refers to a पुरूष मुर्गा ( gallus gallus ).
Immature male chickens कम than एक साल बूढ़ा are called cockerels.
The term `` rooster '' originates in the संयुक्त राज्य, और the पद is widely प्रयुक्त throughout उत्तर अमेरिका, as well as Australia and New Zealand.
In the United किंगडम और आयरलैंड the पुरानी पद `` cockerel '' is अधिक commonly used.
`` Cock '' is in general use as the name for a पुरूष of अन्य प्रजाति of बर्ड, for example `` Cock sparrow ''.
`` Roosting '' is the कार्रवाई of perching aloft to नींद at night, and is done by both sexes.
The rooster is polygamous, लकिन can नहीं गार्ड अनेक nests of eggs at once.
He guards the general area where his मुर्गियां हैं nesting, और होगा आक्रमण अन्य roosters कि enter his territory.
During the daytime, he usually sits on a ऊँची पर्च, प्रायः 3–5 फीट off the ground to serve as a lookout for his flock.
He will sound a distinctive alarm call if परभक्षी हैं आसपास.
The Pokémon व्यापार कार्ड खेल ( पोकीमॉन tcg ) is a collectible कार्ड खेल आधारित on the Pokémon video game series, first published in October 1996 by Media Factory in Japan.
In the US, it थी initially प्रकाशित by wizards of the coast, the कम्पनी that produces, in December 1998.
Nintendo took over प्रकाशन in June 2003.
It is one of Nintendo 's last बाकी दमदार कड़ी to इसके विरासत as a playing card company.
Land Rover is a अंग्रेजों car निर्माता साथ इसके मुख्यालय in gaydon, warwickshire, संयुक्त किंगडम which specialises in four-wheel-drive vehicles.
It is part of the जैगुआर जमीन रोवर समूह, a subsidiary of tata मोटर्स of India.
It is the second oldest four-wheel-drive car ब्रांड in the world ( after Jeep ).
The Land Rover name was originally used by the रोवर कम्पनी लिये एक विशिष्ट गाडी मॉडल, नामित बस the जमीन रोवर, launched by Rover in 1948.
Over the following years it विकसित into a marque encompassing a दायरा of four-wheel-drive मॉडल, सहित the Defender, Discovery, Freelander, Range Rover, Range Rover Sport and Range Rover Evoque.
जमीन रोवर्स हैं फिलहाल समवेत in the कम्पनी 's halewood और solihull plants, with research and development taking place at JLR 's Gaydon and Whitley engineering centres.
Land Rover sold 194,000 वाहनों विश्वव्यापी in 2009.
Although the brand originates from the original 1948 मॉडल, जमीन रोवर as a कम्पनी रै तभी existed चूंकि 1978.
Prior to this, it was a product line of the Rover Company which was subsequently absorbed into the rover-triumph प्रभाग of the अंग्रेजों leyland मोटर निगम ( bl ) following leyland मोटर निगम ’s कब्ज़ा of Rover in 1967.
The ongoing commercial success of the original Land Rover series models, और latterly the दायरा रोवर in the 1970s in the midst of bl’s खूब प्रलेखित कारोबार परेशानियों prompted the स्थापना of a पृथक जमीन रोवर कम्पनी लकिन स्टिल अंतर्गत the bl umbrella, remaining part of the subsequent Rover Group in 1988, under the ownership of British Aerospace after the remains of British Leyland were broken up and privatised.
in 1994 रोवर समूह plc was acquired by BMW.
In 2000, रोवर समूह थी broken-up by bmw and Land Rover was sold to Ford Motor Company, becoming part of its Premier Automotive Group.
In 2006 Ford purchased the Rover ब्रांड इससे bmw लिये around £6 लाख.
This reunited the रोवर और जमीन रोवर ब्रांड्स लिये the पहला समय चूंकि 2000 when the Rover group was broken up by BMW.
In June 2008, Ford sold both जमीन रोवर और जैगुआर गाड़ियाँ to Tata Motors.
This sale also included the dormant रोवर brand
The cover of the first DVD संकलन released by aniplex of the नई Captain Shūsuke Amagai arc
The ninth season of the Bleach anime श्रेणी is नामित.
The series is based on tite kubo 's manga साथ same name.
The episodes are directed by Noriyuki Abe and produced by tv टोकियो, dentsu, और Studio Pierrot.
The episodes ' plot focuses on the introduction of a new Soul Reaper captain, Shūsuke Amagai, and the mystery surrounding the kasumiōji गोत्र, एक of the परिवारों कि constitute the धामों of Soul Society.
the ऋतु began airing on अप्रैल 23, 2008 in जापानी on TV Tokyo and ended on October 7, 2008.
The English adaptation of the Bleach anime is licensed by Viz Media, and this चाप began airing on अगस्त 28, 2010 on कार्टून Network 's Adult Swim, and finished on January 29, 2011.
Five DVD compilations, each containing four episodes of the season, have been released by aniplex ; the पहला dvd संकलन थी released on नवम्बर 26, 2008 and the fifth on March 25, 2009.
A DVD box will be published by Viz मीडिया on दिसम्बर 13, 2011.
The episodes use तीन टुकड़े of थीम म्यूज़िक : एक खोलने theme and two closing themes.
The खोलने थीम is `` Chu-Bura `` by Kelun.
The first closing theme is `` नारंगी '' by lil'b, प्रयुक्त लिये एपीसोड 168 to 179, और the दूसरी closing theme is `` Gallop '' by pe'zmoku, used for the remainder of the episodes.
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States संविधान, it is इसलिए exclusively the डोमेन of the राज्य to परमिट, prohibit, or वरना विनियमित वाणिज्यिक sex, मगर insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act.
In most states, prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the category of public अनुक्रम अपराधों, a अपराधों कि disrupts the अनुक्रम of a community.
It was at एक समय माना to be a vagrancy crime.
Currently, Nevada is the only state to allow brothel prostitution, the शर्तें of जिससे हैं stipulated in the नेवाडा संशोधित statutes.
Only 8 counties फिलहाल contain क्रियाशील brothels.
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las vegas–paradise महानगर क्षेत्रफल ), washoe काउंटी ( जिससे contains रेनो ), कार्सन City, Douglas County, and Lincoln County.
The other counties theoretically allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, लकिन कुछ of ये काउंटी फिलहाल have no active brothels.
Street prostitution, `` pandering, '' और जीना बंद of the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal under Nevada law, as elsewhere in the country.
As with other countries, prostitution in the United States can be divided into three व्यापक श्रेणी : गली वेश्यावृति, वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति, और अनुरक्षण prostitution.
The East Coast of the United States, also known as the पूर्वी seaboard or the अटलांटिक seaboard और commonly shortened to ईस्ट coast, refers to the easternmost coast of the United States along the Atlantic Ocean.
The states which have shoreline on the East Coast are, from north to south, the U.S. states of Maine, New Hampshire, मैसाचुसेट्स, rhode द्वीप, कनेक्टिकट, नई यॉर्क, नई जर्सी, डेलावेयर, मेरीलैंड, वर्जिनिया, उत्तर कैरोलिना, दक्षिण कैरोलिना, जॉर्जिया, and Florida.
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994 ) थी the 37th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, सेवारत इससे 1969 to 1974, जब he became the only president to resign the office.
Nixon had previously परोसा as a रिपब्लिकन u.S. प्रतिनिधि और सीनेटर इससे कैलिफ़ोर्निया और as the 36th वाइस President of the United States from 1953 to 1961.
Nixon was born in yorba लिंडा, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
He graduated from Whittier कॉलेज in 1934 और ड्यूक विश्वविद्यालयों स्कूल of विधि in 1937, returning to California to practice law.
He and his wife, पैट निक्सन, स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन to कार्य for the federal government in 1942.
He subsequently served in the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी दौरान संसार युद्ध ii.
Nixon was elected in California to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 और to the Senate in 1950.
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his reputation as a leading anti-communist, और elevated उसे to नेशनल prominence.
He was the running mate of Dwight D. आइज़नहावर, the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी अध्यक्षीय nominee in the 1952 election.
Nixon served for eight सालो as वाइस अध्यक्ष.
He waged an unsuccessful अध्यक्षीय अभियान in 1960, narrowly खोने to जॉन F. Kennedy, and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962.
In 1968, he ran again for the प्रेसिडेंसी और was elected.
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War, he subsequently ended u.S. भागीदारी in 1973.
Nixon 's विज़िट to the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन in 1972 खोली राजनयिक संबंध between the दो राष्ट्र, and he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year.
Domestically, his administration generally embraced नीतियों कि transferred शक्ति इससे वॉशिंगटन to the states.
Among other things, he शुभारम्भ पहलों to लड़ो कर्कट and illegal drugs, imposed wage and price controls, enforced desegregation of some Southern schools, and established the Environmental Protection Agency.
Though he presided over the चंद्र अवतरण शुरूआत साथ अपोलो 11, he scaled back manned space exploration.
He was re-elected by a भूस्खलन in 1972.
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo, the इस्तीफा of उसके वाइस अध्यक्ष, spiro agnew, और a continuing श्रेणी of खुलासे परिचय the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by members of the administration.
The scandal escalated, costing Nixon much of his political support, and on August 9, 1974, he resigned in the face of almost certain महाभियोग और हटाना इससे दफ्तर.
After his resignation, he controversially प्राप्त a pardon जारी by his successor, Gerald Ford.
In रिटायरमेंट, निक्सन 's कार्य as an elder statesman, authoring अनेक books and undertaking many foreign trips, helped to rehabilitate his public image.
he suffered a debilitating स्ट्रोक on अप्रैल 18, 1994, and died four days later at the age of 81.
sertraline hydrochloride ( व्यापार names zoloft, lustral ) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class.
It थी introduced to the मार्केट by Pfizer in 1991.
Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in वयस्क outpatients as खूब as obsessive–compulsive, दहशत, and social anxiety disorders in both adults and children.
In 2011, it was the second-most prescribed antidepressant on the u.S. खुदरा market, with 37,208,000 prescriptions.
The efficacy of sertraline for depression is similar to that of पुरानी tricyclic antidepressants, लकिन इसके पक्ष प्रभाव हैं much less pronounced.
मतभेद साथ नए antidepressants हैं subtler और also mostly confined to side effects.
प्रमाण suggests कि sertraline may work better than fluoxetine ( Prozac ) for some subtypes of depression.
उपचार of दहशत विकार साथ sertraline results in a significant decrease of the number of panic attacks and in improved quality of life.
For obsessive-compulsive disorder, sertraline is not as प्रभावी as संज्ञानात्मक behavioral चिकित्सा ; the बेहतरीन परिणाम have महरूम हासिल by combining these two treatments.
Although approved for social phobia and posttraumatic stress विकार, sertraline लीड to तभी modest सुधार in ये conditions.
Sertraline also alleviates the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric disorder and can be प्रयुक्त in sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently लिये its treatment.
Sertraline shares the common side effects and contraindications of other SSRIs, with high rates of nausea, diarrhea, insomnia, and यौन पक्ष प्रभाव ; however, it करता नहीं कारण वज़न लाभ, और इसके प्रभाव on दोनो संज्ञान और vigilance are relatively mild.
In pregnant women taking sertraline, the drug was present in significant concentrations in fetal रक्त, और थी भी संबद्ध साथ a उच्चतर रेट of विभिन्न जनम दोषों.
Similarly to other antidepressants, the use of sertraline for अवसाद may be संबद्ध साथ a उच्चतर रेट of suicidality.
The Five Heartbeats is a 1991 musical नाटक फिल्मी निर्देशित by रॉबर्ट टाउनसेंड, जो co-wrote the स्क्रिप्ट साथ keenan Ivory Wayans.
Distributed by 20th Century Fox, the film 's main cast includes Townsend, Michael Wright, Leon रॉबिन्सन, हैरी J. lennix, tico कुएं, हेरोल्ड निकोलस of the Nicholas Brothers, and Diahann Carroll.
The plot of the film ( which is loosely based on the lives of several कलाकारों : the dells, the temptations, चार टॉप, विल्सन पिकेट, जेम्स भूरा, फ्रेंकी lymon, sam cooke और अन्य ) फ़ॉलो the तीन दशक करियर of the R & B vocal group The Five Heartbeats.
the फिल्मी depicts the वृद्धि और पतन of a motown प्रेरित आत्मा अधिनियम through the eyes of the film 's main protagonist, Donald `` Duck '' Matthews ( portrayed by Townsend ), who serves as a narrator throughout the film.
However, a majority of the cinema is presented in a लगातार समय लकीर as opposed to परंपरागत फ्लैश backs.
The film includes a significant राशि of असली म्यूज़िक conceived by विभिन्न कलाकारों लिये the फिल्मी 's साउंडट्रैक, सहित singles ऐसे as `` a दिल Is a House for Love ``, `` We Have n't Finished Yet '', and `` Nothing But Love ''.
The film थी released to सबसे उत्तर अमरीकी ऑडियंस कूच 29, 1991 however it थी नहीं बना उपलब्धियाँ to audiences in other continents until 2002 when a DVD was released prior to another DVD release in 2006 for the film 's 15th anniversary.
The फिल्म प्राप्त मिश्रित समीक्षाएँ from critics.
सचिवालय ( कूच 30, 1970 – अक्तूबर 4, 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S. Triple Crown champion in 25 years.
He नियत रेस रिकॉर्ड in सब तीन कार्यक्रम in the श्रेणी — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ), the Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ), and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today.
he is माना to be एक of the greatest Thoroughbreds of all time.
In 1999, ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th सदी, the उच्चतम रैंकिंग racehorse on the सूची url_http.
He क्रमित दूसरी पीछे man o ' युद्ध in the blood-horse 's सूची of the Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century.
Secretariat थी sired by बिंदास शासक आउट of Somethingroyal, by Princequillo.
he थी foaled at the मर्ग in Caroline County, Virginia.
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' War, Secretariat थी a विशाल शाहबलूत टट्टू और थी given the same nickname, `` Big Red. ''
Secretariat 's grandsire, nasrullah, is भी the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew.
Owned by Penny Chenery, he थी प्रशिक्षित by lucien laurin और मुख्यतः ridden by कनाडाई jockey Ron Turcotte, along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ), and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ).
He raced in chenery 's मर्ग stable 's ब्लू और white checkered colors and his groom was Eddie Sweat.
Secretariat stood approximately tall, और weighed, साथ a 75-inch girth, in उसके रेसिंग प्रधान.
A ठेठ 12 v, 40 ah lead-acid car battery
An automotive battery is a type of rechargeable बैटरी कि आपूर्तियाँ इलेक्ट्रिक उर्जा to an automobile.
Usually this refers to an SLI battery ( starting, lighting, प्रज्वलन ) to शक्ति the प्रारंभ मोटर, the लाइट्स, and the ignition system of a vehicle’s engine.
Automotive SLI batteries are usually lead-acid type, and are made of six गैल्वानी कोशिकाएं in श्रेणी to provide a 12 volt system.
Each cell provides 2.1 volts for a total of 12.6 वोल्ट at पूरा चार्ज.
Heavy vehicles such as highway trucks or tractors, often equipped with diesel engines, may have दो बैटरी in श्रेणी लिये a 24 वोल्ट प्रणाली, or may have समानांतर स्ट्रिंग्स of batteries.
Lead-acid batteries are made up of plates of lead and separate plates of lead dioxide, which are submerged into an electrolyte समाधान of परिचय 38 % sulfuric एसिड and 62 % water.
This causes a chemical reaction that रिलीज electrons, allowing उन्हें to प्रवाह through conductors to produce electricity.
As the battery discharges, the acid of the electrolyte प्रतिक्रियाएँ साथ the सामग्री of the प्लेटों, changing their surface to lead sulfate.
When the battery is recharged, the chemical प्रतिक्रिया is reversed : the सीसे सल्फेट reforms into lead dioxide and lead.
With the plates लौटी to उनके असली कंडीशन, the process may now be repeated.
Battery recycling of automotive batteries reduces the need for resources required for manufacture of new बैटरी, diverts विषाक्त सीसे इससे landfills, और रोकता रिस्क of improper निपटान.
Full-time employment is employment in which a person works a न्यूनतम क्रमांक of घंटों पारिभाषित as ऐसे by his/her नियोक्ता.
Full-time employment often comes साथ लाभ कि हैं नहीं typically offered to part-time, अस्थाई, or flexible workers, such as annual leave, sickleave, and health insurance.
full-time कार्य हैं प्रायः माना careers.
They generally अदा अधिक than part-time jobs, and usually carry more hours per week.
The Fair Labor Standards Act ( FLSA ) does not define full-time नियुक्ति or part-time नियुक्ति.
This is a matter generally to be संकल्पित by the नियोक्ता ( us विभाग of मजदूर ).
The definition by नियोक्ता can vary और is generally प्रकाशित in a company 's Employee Handbook.
Companies commonly require from 30–35 or 40 hours per week to be पारिभाषित as full-time और इसलिए योग्य लिये लाभ.
Full-Time status varies between company and is often based on the शिफ़्ट the कर्मचारी जरूर कार्य दौरान प्रत्येक work week.
The `` standard '' work week consists of five eight-hour दिनों, commonly परोसा between 9:00am to 5:00PM totaling 40 hours.
जबकि a four-day सप्ताह generally consists of चार ten-hour days ; it may also consist of as little as nine hours for a total of a 36 hour work week.
Twelve-hour shifts हैं प्रायः तीन दिनों प्रति सप्ताह, जबतक the कम्पनी रै the intention of paying out the employee overtime.
Overtime is legally paid out anytime an कर्मचारी works अधिक than 40 घंटों per week.
The विधिक न्यूनतम लिये ओवरटाइम starts at Base Pay + One-Half.
The increased भुगतान is माना to compensate थोड़ा लिये the increased fatigue which a person experiences on such long shifts.
Shifts can also be very irregular, as in खुदरा, लकिन हैं स्टिल full-time if the required number of hours is reached.
There are some situations where a व्यक्ति जो needs full-time कार्य is dropped to part-time, जिससे is sometimes a form of constructive dismissal to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker.
Seahorse is the शीर्षक दिए to 54 प्रजाति of समुद्री मछली in the genus Hippocampus.
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the प्राचीन यूनानी hippos अर्थ `` घोड़ा '' और kampos अर्थ `` sea monster ''.
The नियंत्रित substances अधिनियम ( सीएसए ) थी enacted into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture, importation, कब्ज़ा, उपयोग और वितरण of निश्चित substances is regulated.
The Act also परोसा as the नेशनल implementing विधान लिये the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying योग्यता लिये a पदार्थ to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the initial लिस्टिंग, और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i. वर्गीकरण निर्णय हैं जरूरी to be बना on मापदण्ड सहित संभावित for abuse ( an undefined term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
माया numerals
Maya numerals हैं a vigesimal ( आधार - बीस ) numeral प्रणाली used by the Pre-Columbian Maya civilization.
The numerals हैं बना up of तीन प्रतीकों ; शून्य ( शेल shape ), one ( a dot ) and five ( a bar ).
For example, thirteen is written as three dots in a आड़ा पंक्ति ऊपर दो आड़ा लाइनों stacked above each other.
Lyndon baines जॉनसन ( अगस्त 27, 1908 – जनवरी 22, 1973 ), प्रायः referred to as lbj, थी the 36th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed after his service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
He is one of only four people who served in all four निर्वाचित संघीय कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त राज्य : प्रतिनिधि, सीनेटर, Vice President, and President.
Johnson, a Democrat from Texas, served as a United States Representative from 1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर इससे 1949–1961, सहित छह सालो as संयुक्त राज्य Senate Majority Leader, two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip.
बाद campaigning unsuccessfully लिये the लोकतांत्रिक nomination in 1960, Johnson was asked by John F. Kennedy to be his running mate for the 1960 presidential election.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963, completed Kennedy 's पद और थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष in उसके अपना सही, जीतना by a विशाल हाशिया over बैरी goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President, he was responsible for designing the `` ग्रेट समाज `` विधान कि शामिल कानून कि upheld सिविल अधिकारों, पब्लिक प्रसारण, medicare, medicaid, पर्यावरणीय सुरक्षा, सहायता to शिक्षा, and his `` War on Poverty. ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering व्यक्तित्व और the `` जॉनसन उपचार, '' उसके coercion of शक्तिशाली politicians in order to advance legislation.
Meanwhile, Johnson escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War, from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 कॉम्बैट सैनिकों in जल्दी 1968, as अमरीकी हताहत soared और the सलाम प्रक्रम bogged down.
The involvement stimulated a विशाल एंग्री antiwar गति आधारित विशेषकर on विश्वविद्यालयों campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965, and crime दरों soared, as उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों उठाया मांगे लिये `` विधि और अनुक्रम '' नीतियों.
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions, and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New हैम्पशायर प्राथमिक, he ended उसके बोली लिये reelection.
Republican रिचर्ड निक्सन थी निर्वाचित to सफल him.
Historians argue that Johnson 's presidency marked the peak of modern liberalism in the संयुक्त राज्य बाद the नई सौदे era.
Johnson is ranked favorably by कुछ इतिहासकारों क्युकी of उसके domestic policies.
Progesterone also known as P4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a c-21 स्टेरॉयड हार्मोन शामिल in the मादा menstrual cycle, pregnancy ( supports gestation ) and embryogenesis of humans and other species.
Progesterone belongs to a class of hormones पुकारा progestogens, और is the प्रमुख naturally occurring human progestogen.
Big Bird is a protagonist of the children 's टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ तिल गली.
Officially performed by Caroll Spinney since 1969, he is an eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) लम्बा उज्जवल primrose-yellow bird.
He can रोलर स्केट, बर्फ स्केट, नृत्य, गाओ, लिखें poetry, draw and even ride a unicycle.
But despite this wide सरणी of talents, he is prone to बारंबार misunderstandings, on एक अवसर भी गायन the वर्णमाला as एक बिग long word ( from the song called `` ABC-DEF-GHI, '' pronounced `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ), pondering what it could ever mean.
He जीवनदान in a विशाल घोंसला पीछे the 123 तिल Street brownstone and has a teddy bear named Radar.
Webtrends is a निजी कम्पनी headquartered in Portland, Oregon, United States.
It provides web, social, and mobile analytics और अन्य तन्त्र समाधान सम्बन्धित to marketing intelligence.
The company was founded in 1993 and अभी serves अधिक than 10,000 विशाल और छोटी कड़s. < संदर्भ name='intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
The Second Crusade ( 1145–1149 ) was the दूसरी प्रमुख crusade शुभारम्भ from Europe.
The दूसरी crusade थी प्रारंभ in जवाब to the पतन of the County of Edessa the previous year to the forces of Zengi.
The county had been founded during the पहला crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by Baldwin of Boulogne in 1098.
While it was the first जेहादी राज्य to be संस्थापित, it was also the first to fall.
The Second Crusade थी घोषित by पोप यूजीन iii, और थी the पहला of the क्रूसेड to be led by European kings, namely Louis VII of France and Conrad III of Germany, with help from a number of other European nobles.
The armies of the दो किंग्स marched separately across Europe.
After crossing Byzantine territory into आनातोलिया, दोनो सेना यहूद separately पराजित by the seljuq turks.
The main Western Christian source, odo of deuil, और syriac ईसाई स्त्रोत अर्जी कि the बीज़ान्टिन सम्राट मैनुएल i comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' प्रगति, particularly in Anatolia where he is alleged to have deliberately ordered Turks to attack them.
Louis and Conrad and the remnants of their सेना पहुँचे जेरूसलम और, in 1148, participated in an ill-advised आक्रमण on Damascus.
The crusade in the east was a विफलता लिये the crusaders और a ग्रेट विजय लिये the Muslims.
It would ultimately have a key influence on the fall of Jerusalem और दे वृद्धि to the तीसरा crusade at the end of the 12th century.
The only success of the Second Crusade came to a संयुक्त फ़ोर्स of 13,000 फ्लेमिश, frisian, नॉर्मन, अंग्रेज़ी, Scottish, and German crusaders in 1147.
Travelling from England, by ship, to the Holy Land, the army stopped and helped the छोटी ( 7,000 ) पुर्तगाली फौज in the कैप्चर of लिस्बन, expelling इसके Moorish occupants.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( ), branded as Walmart, is an American multinational खुदरा निगम कि रनों जंजीरों of large discount department stores and warehouse stores.
The company is the world 's third largest public निगम, according to the सौभाग्य वैश्विक 500 सूची in 2012, the biggest private employer in the world with over two million employees, and is the largest retailer in the world.
Walmart remains a family-owned कारोबार, as the कम्पनी is नियंत्रित by the वाल्टन परिवार, जो own a 48 percent stake in Walmart.
It is also one of the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान companies.
The company was founded by Sam Walton in 1962, incorporated on अक्तूबर 31, 1969, और सरेआम traded on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972.
It is headquartered in bentonville, Arkansas.
walmart is भी the largest किराना retailer in the United States.
In 2009, it generated 51 percent of its US $ 258 अरब बिक्री in the u.S. from grocery business.
It also owns and operates the sam 's क्लबों खुदरा warehouses in North America.
By 1988, Wal-Mart was the most profitable retailer in the us, और by नवम्बर 1990, it outsold k-mart.
By 1991 it outsold सियर्स in खुदरा, बनाना it अमेरिका 's largest retailer, a distinction it still holds.
Walmart रै 8,500 स्टोर्स in 15 countries, under 55 different names.
The company operates under the walmart नाम in the संयुक्त राज्य, सहित the 50 states and Puerto Rico.
It operates in मैक्सिको as walmex, in the संयुक्त किंगडम as asda, in जापानी as Seiyu, and in India as Best Price.
It रै wholly स्वामित्व परिचालन in Argentina, Brazil, and Canada.
Walmart 's investments outside North America have had mixed results : its operations in the United Kingdom, South America, and China are अत्यधिक कामयाब, whereas ventures in जर्मनी and South Korea were unsuccessful.
Robert William Gary Moore ( 4 अप्रैल 1952 – 6 फ़रवरी 2011 ), थी a उत्तरी आयरिश musician, most widely recognised as a singer and guitarist.
In a career dating back to the 1960s, Moore played with artists including फिल lynott और ब्रायन downey दौरान उसके किशोर, अग्रणी उसे to सदस्यताएँ with the Irish bands Skid Row and Thin Lizzy on three separate occasions.
Moore shared the stage with such blues and rock luminaries as b.b. किंग, अल्बर्ट किंग, कोलोसियम II, George Harrison and Greg Lake, as well as having a successful solo career.
He guested on a number of albums अंकित by ऊँची प्रोफ़ाइल संगीतकारों, सहित a कैमियो रूप playing the lead guitar solo on `` She 's My Baby `` from Traveling Wilburys Vol. 3.
An उदाहरण of rack mounted servers
A web होस्टिंग सेवा is a प्रकार of अंतरजाल होस्टिंग सेवा that allows individuals and organizations to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server owned or leased for use by क्लाइंट, as खूब as providing अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी, typically in a data center.
Web hosts can also provide data बीच स्पेस और कनेक्टिविटी to the अंतरजाल लिये अन्य सर्वर स्तिथ in उनके आंकड़ा center, called colocation, also known as Housing in Latin America or France.
The पैमाना of वेब होस्टिंग सेवाएं varies greatly.
The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting, जहाँ फाइलें can be अपलोड via संचिका ट्रांसफ़र प्रोटोकॉल ( एफटीपी ) or a वेब इंटरफ़ेस.
The files are प्रायः वितरित to the वेब `` as is '' or साथ minimal processing.
Many Internet service providers ( ISPs ) प्रस्ताव इस सेवा फ़्री to सदस्य.
Individuals and organizations may also obtain वेब पेज होस्टिंग इससे वैकल्पिक service providers.
Personal web site hosting is typically फ़्री, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site hosting often has a higher व्यय depending upon the आकार और प्रकार of the website.
Single page hosting is generally sufficient लिये निजी वेब पृष्ठों.
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive पैकेज कि provides डेटाबेस support और अनुप्रयोग विकास प्लेटफ़ॉर्म ( e.g. पीएचपी, जावा, माणिक्य on Rails, ColdFusion, or ASP.NET ).
These facilities allow customers to write or स्थापना स्क्रिप्ट लिये अनुप्रयोग जैसे forums और सामग्री management.
Also, Secure Sockets परत ( एसएसएल ) is typically used for e-commerce.
The host may also provide an interface or कंट्रोल फलक लिये मैनेजिंग the वेब सर्वर और installing स्क्रिप्ट, as well as other modules and service applications like e-mail.
Some hosts specialize in निश्चित तन्त्र or सेवाएं ( e.g. e-commerce ), जिससे हैं commonly प्रयुक्त by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure.
Obstetrics ( from the Latin obstare, `` to stand by '' ) is the चिकित्सा specialty dealing साथ the परवाह of सब महिलाओं 's reproductive tracts and their children during pregnancy ( prenatal period ), childbirth and the postnatal period.
Many obstetricians are also gynecologists, अर्थ वे perform in दोनो specialties.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, ये physicians हैं commonly referred to as OB/GYNs.
The Wright brothers, Orville ( August 19, 1871 – January 30, 1948 ) and Wilbur ( April 16, 1867 – May 30, 1912 ), were two American brothers, inventors, and aviation pioneers who were credited with inventing and building the world 's पहला कामयाब वायुयान और बनाना the पहला नियंत्रित, संचालित और sustained heavier-than-air इंसान उड़ान, on दिसम्बर 17, 1903.
इससे 1905 to 1907, the भाइयो विकसित उनके flying machine into the first practical fixed-wing aircraft.
Although not the first to build and fly प्रायोगिक वायुयान, the राइट भाइयो यहूद the पहला to इफ़तेरा वायुयान नियंत्रण that made fixed-wing powered flight possible.
The brothers ' fundamental breakthrough was their invention of three-axis control, which सक्रिय the पायलट to steer the वायुयान effectively और to maintain इसके संतुलन.
This method became standard and remains मानक on fixed-wing वायुयान of सब kinds.
From the beginning of their aeronautical कार्य, the राइट भाइयो केन्द्रित on विकासशील a विश्वसनीय विधि of पायलट कंट्रोल as the कुंजी to solving `` the flying problem ''.
This approach differed significantly इससे अन्य experimenters of the समय जो put more emphasis on developing powerful engines.
Using a small homebuilt wind tunnel, the Wrights also collected more accurate data than any before, enabling them to डिज़ाइन और निर्माण विंग्स और propellers कि यहूद अधिक कुशल than कोई पहले.
Their first U.S. patent, 821,393, did not claim invention of a flying यंत्र, लकिन बल्कि, the आविष्कार of a प्रणाली of aerodynamic कंट्रोल कि manipulated a उड़ती machine 's surfaces.
They gained the mechanical skills अनिवार्य लिये उनके कामयाबी by working लिये सालो in उनके shop with printing presses, bicycles, motors, and other machinery.
Their work with bicycles in particular influenced their belief that an unstable vehicle like a उड़ती यंत्र could be नियंत्रित और संतुलित साथ अभ्यास.
From 1900 until their first powered flights in late 1903, they conducted extensive glider परीक्षण कि भी विकसित उनके skills as pilots.
Their bicycle shop employee Charlie Taylor became an important part of the टोली, भवन उनके पहला वायुयान इंजन in बंद सहयोग साथ the brothers.
The Wright brothers ' status as inventors of the वायुयान रै महरूम विषय to counter-claims by various parties.
Much controversy persists over the many स्पर्धा दावा of जल्दी aviators.
अमेरिका 's अगला शीर्ष मॉडल, साईकिल 12 is the बारहवीं साईकिल of America 's Next Top Model and the sixth season to air on The CW network.
It premiered on कूच 4, 2009.
The cycle 's कैच phrase is `` मिलेंगी In The Fold. ''
the साईकिल 's promotional song is Lady Gaga 's `` The Fame ''.
The prizes for this साईकिल are:
A मॉडलिंग अनुबंध साथ Elite Model Management.
A fashion spread and कवर in सत्रह.
a 100,000 अनुबंध with CoverGirl cosmetics.
The first half of the cycle took place in नई यॉर्क नगर, चलती the दिखाएँ वापस इससे लॉस Angeles last season.
The international destination लिये इस साईकिल is são पाउलो, ब्राज़ील, the श्रेणी first visit to South America.
The number of girls was reduced to 13, the पहला समय चूंकि साईकिल 9, बाद होने कायम at 14 in the last two cycles.
This was the last time paulina porizkova participated as न्यायधीश.
The winner was 20-year-old teyona एंडरसन इससे woodstown, नई Jersey.
This season averaged 4.35 लाख दर्शक प्रति एपीसोड.
Exxon Mobil Corporation, or exxonmobil, is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय आयल और गैस निगम headquartered in Irving, Texas, United States.
It is a सीधा वंशज of जॉन D. rockefeller 's मानक Oil company, and was formed on November 30, 1999, by the merger of Exxon and Mobil.
It is संबद्ध साथ इम्पीरियल Oil which operates in Canada.
ExxonMobil is the world 's largest company by revenue and in 2013, became the largest सरेआम traded company by market capitalization in the world.
The company is क्रमित # 5 globally in फोर्ब्स Global 2000 list in 2013.
Exxon Mobil 's reserves were 72 अरब oil-equivalent barrels at the समाप्त of 2007 और, at तब ( 2007 ) दरों of उत्पादन, are expected to last over 14 years.
With 37 oil refineries in 21 countries constituting a combined daily refining capacity of, Exxon Mobil is the largest refiner in the world, a title that was also संबद्ध साथ मानक आयल चूंकि इसके incorporation in 1870.
ExxonMobil is the largest of the संसार 's supermajors साथ रोज़ उत्पादन of 3.921 million BOE ( barrels of oil equivalent ).
In 2008, this was approximately 3 % of world उत्पादन, जिससे is कम than अनेक of the largest state-owned पेट्रोलियम companies.
When ranked by oil और गैस reserves it is 14th in the world with less than 1 % of the total.
A 2012 article in The Daily Telegraph says that ExxonMobil has `` grown into एक of the planet’s सबसे hated corporations, समर्थ to determine अमरीकी विदेशी नीति और the भाग्य of संपूर्ण राष्ट्र ''.
In terms of its environmental रिकार्ड, exxonmobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to उन्हें by dictatorships, such as those in Chad and Equatorial Guinea.
Lee Raymond, the corporation’s chief executive until 2005, was `` notoriously sceptical about जलवायु बदलें और disliked सरकारी हस्तक्षेप at कोई स्तर ''.
The company was widely criticized for its slow जवाब to सफ़ाई इसके 1989 valdez आयल spill in Alaska.
इस आलेख is परिचय the Globe Theatre of Shakespeare.
लिये the आधुनिक पुनर्निर्माण in लंदन, see Shakespeare 's Globe.
For other uses, see ग्लोब थिएटर ( बहुविकल्पी ).
the ग्लोब थिएटर थी a थिएटर in London associated with William Shakespeare.
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare 's playing company, the Lord Chamberlain 's Men, on land owned by Thomas Brend and inherited by उसके बेटे, निकोलस brend और पोता सर मैथ्यू brend, and was destroyed by fire on 29 June 1613.
A दूसरी ग्लोब थिएटर थी निर्मित on the वही साईट by जून 1614 और closed in 1642.
A modern reconstruction of the ग्लोब, नामित `` शेक्सपियर 's ग्लोब ``, खोली in 1997 लगभग from the site of the original theatre.
It 's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 American Christmas drama film produced and directed by Frank Capra, based on the short स्टोरी `` the महानतम तोहफा ``, जिससे फिलिप वैन doren stern लिखा in 1939 और privately प्रकाशित in 1945.
The film is considered one of the most loved films in अमरीकी सिनेमा और रै become परंपरागत देखने दौरान the क्रिसमस season, alongside popular classics such as Charles Dickens ' A Christmas Carol.
The film stars James Stewart as George Bailey, a man who has given up his सपनो in अनुक्रम to सहायता अन्य और जिनकी निकट आत्महत्या on क्रिसमस संध्या brings परिचय the हस्तक्षेप of उसके संरक्षक देवदूत, क्लेरेंस odbody ( हेनरी Travers ).
Clarence shows George all the lives he has touched and how different life in his community of bedford जलप्रपात होता be था he never been born.
Despite initially performing poorly at the box office due to high production costs and stiff प्रतियोगिता at the समय of इसके रिलीज, the फिल्मी रै आइये to be regarded as a क्लासिक और is a स्टेपल of क्रिसमस टेलीविज़न around the world.
Theatrically, the film 's break-even point was actually $ 6.3 लाख, लगभग twice the उत्पादन लागत, a फिगर it never came close to achieving in its initial release.
An appraisal in 2006 reported : `` हालांकि it थी नहीं the पूरा बक्सा दफ्तर विफलता कि आज everyone मानता... it थी initially a major disappointment and confirmed, at least to the studios, that Capra was no longer capable of turning out the populist features that made his films the must-see, money-making events they once were. ''
the फिल्मी थी मनोनीत लिये पाँच ऑस्कर और रै महरूम पहचाना by the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान as एक of the 100 बेहतरीन अमरीकी films कभी बना, रखकर क्रमांक 11 on इसके आरंभिक 1998 greatest movie list, and would also place number one on its list of the most inspirational American films of all time.
Data गोदाम अवलोकन
In कम्प्यूटिंग, a आंकड़ा गोदाम or enterprise data warehouse ( DW, DWH, or EDW ) is a database used for reporting and data analysis.
It is a central repository of data which is निर्मित by integrating आंकड़ा इससे एक or अधिक disparate स्त्रोत.
Data warehouses store current as खूब as ऐतिहासिक आंकड़ा और हैं प्रयुक्त लिये बनाना चर्चित रिपोर्ट्स लिये वरिष्ठ प्रबन्धन reporting such as annual and quarterly comparisons.
The data stored in the warehouse are uploaded from the operational प्रणालियों ( ऐसे as विपणन, बिक्री etc., shown in the figure to the right ).
The data may pass through an operational data store for additional परिचालन पहले वे हैं प्रयुक्त in the dw लिये रिपोर्टिंग.
The typical ETL -based data warehouse uses स्टेजिंग, आंकड़ा संयोजन, और अभिगम परतों to house its key functions.
The staging परत or स्टेजिंग डेटाबेस स्टोर्स कच्चा आंकड़ा निकाली इससे प्रत्येक of the disparate source data systems.
The integration layer integrates the disparate आंकड़ा सेट by transforming the आंकड़ा इससे the स्टेजिंग परत प्रायः storing this transformed data in an operational data store ( ODS ) database.
The integrated data are then moved to yet another database, often called the data warehouse डेटाबेस, जहाँ the आंकड़ा is arranged into hierarchical समूह प्रायः पुकारा आयाम और into तथ्य और कुल facts.
The combination of facts और आयाम is sometimes पुकारा a स्टार schema.
The access layer helps उपयोक्ता retrieve data.
A data warehouse constructed from an integrated data source systems does नहीं आवश्यकता etl, स्टेजिंग databases, or operational data store databases.
The एकीकृत आंकड़ा सोर्स प्रणालियों may be considered to be a part of a distributed operational data store layer.
Data federation methods or data आभासीकरण विधि may be प्रयुक्त to अभिगम the वितरित एकीकृत सोर्स आंकड़ा प्रणालियों to consolidate and aggregate data directly into the data warehouse database tables.
Unlike the etl-based आंकड़ा गोदाम, the एकीकृत सोर्स आंकड़ा प्रणालियों और the data warehouse are all integrated since there is no transformation of dimensional or reference data.
This integrated data warehouse architecture supports the ड्रिल bas इससे the कुल आंकड़ा of the आंकड़ा गोदाम to the transactional आंकड़ा of the एकीकृत source data systems.
Data warehouses can be subdivided into आंकड़ा marts.
Data marts store subsets of data from a warehouse.
This definition of the आंकड़ा गोदाम focuses on data storage.
The main source of the data is cleaned, transformed, cataloged और बना उपलब्धियाँ लिये उपयोग by प्रबंधक और अन्य कारोबार पेशेवर लिये आंकड़ा खनन, ऑनलाइन विश्लेषणात्मक प्रसंस्करण, market research and decision support ( Marakas & O'Brien 2009 ).
However, the means to retrieve and analyze data, to extract, transform and load data, and to मैनेज the आंकड़ा शब्दकोष हैं भी माना अनिवार्य components of a आंकड़ा warehousing प्रणाली.
Many references to data warehousing उपयोग इस broader context.
Thus, an expanded definition for data warehousing शामिल कारोबार प्रज्ञा टूल्स, टूल्स to निकालें, रूपांतरण और लोड आंकड़ा into the repository, और टूल्स to मैनेज and retrieve metadata.
Portland स्टोन पाषाण on the आइल of Portland, England
An abandoned निर्माण कुल पाषाण निकट एडिलेड, South Australia
A पाषाण is a प्रकार of open-pit mine from which rock or minerals are extracted.
खदानों हैं generally प्रयुक्त लिये extracting भवन सामग्री, ऐसे as आयाम stone, construction aggregate, riprap, sand, and gravel.
They are often collocated साथ कंक्रीट और डामर पौधे due to the requirement for large amounts of aggregate in those materials.
Open mines that उपज खनिज हैं typically referred to as खोलें pit mines.
The word पाषाण can शामिल भूमिगत quarrying for stone, such as Bath stone.
Mormons ( ) are a धार्मिक और सांस्कृतिक समूह सम्बन्धित to mormonism, the प्रिंसिपल शाखा of the latter Day Saint movement of Restorationist Christianity, which began with the visions of Joseph Smith in upstate New York during the 1820s.
बाद स्मिथ 's मौत in 1844 the mormons followed ब्रिघम Young to what would become the Utah Territory.
Today Mormons are understood to be सदस्यों of the गिरिजाघर of यीशु मसीह of latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ).
Some mormons हैं भी either independent or non-practicing.
The center of Mormon cultural influence is in Utah, and North America has more mormons than कोई अन्य महाद्वीप, हालांकि the बहुमत of mormons सजीव बाहर the संयुक्त States.
Mormons have विकसित a दमदार भाव of communality कि तना from their doctrine and history.
During the 19th सदी mormon converts tended to एकत्रित to a सेंट्रल भौगोलिक स्थान, और between 1852 और 1890 a अल्पसंख्यक of Mormons openly practiced plural marriage, a form of religious polygamy.
Mormons dedicate large amounts of time and resources to सेवारत in उनके गिरिजाघर, और अनेक यंग mormons चुनें to serve a full-time proselytizing mission.
Mormons have a स्वास्थ्य कोड कि eschews alcoholic पेय, तम्बाकू, कॉफी, tea, and other addictive substances.
They tend to be very family-oriented, and have strong connections across generations and with extended परिवार, परावर्तक of उनके विश्वास कि परिवारों can be sealed साथ beyond death and throughout eternity.
Mormons also have a strict law of chastity, requiring abstention इससे यौन संबंध बाहर of विवाह और सख्त fidelity within marriage.
Mormons self-identify as Christian, though कुछ of उनके मान्यताओं differ इससे मुख्यधारा christianity.
Mormons मानना in the बाइबल, as खूब as अन्य किताबे of scripture, ऐसे as the Book of Mormon.
They have a अद्वितीय दृश्य of cosmology, और मानना that all people are spirit-children of God.
Mormons believe that returning to God requires following the उदाहरण of यीशु मसीह, और accepting उसके प्रायश्चित through ordinances such as baptism.
They believe that Christ 's church was लौटी through जोसेफ स्मिथ, और is हिदायत by जीना नबियों और रसूलों.
Central to Mormon आस्था is the विश्वास कि परमेश्वर बोलती to his children and answers their prayers.
In financial accounting, एसेट हैं आर्थिक संसाधन.
Anything tangible or intangible that is सक्षम of होने स्वामित्व or नियंत्रित to उपज मान और कि is आयोजित to have positive economic value is considered an asset.
Simply stated, assets represent value of ownership कि can be परिवर्तित into नकदी ( हालांकि नकदी itself is also considered an asset ).
The balance sheet of a कड़ रिकॉर्ड the monetaryJ.
G. Siegel, N. Dauber & J. K. Shim, `` The Vest Pocket CPA '', Wiley, 2005.There are different methods of assessing the मौद्रिक मान of the एसेट अंकित on the संतुलन चादर.
In some मामले, the ऐतिहासिक लागत is प्रयुक्त ; ऐसे कि the मान of the एसेट जब it was bought in the past is used as the monetary value.
In other उदाहरण, the उपस्थित मेला मार्केट मान of the एसेट is used to determine the value shown on the balance sheet.
value of the assets स्वामित्व by the कड़.
It is money and other valuables belonging to an व्यक्तिगत or कारोबार.
Two major asset वर्ग हैं ठोस एसेट and intangible assets.
Tangible assets contain various subclasses, including वर्तमान एसेट और फिक्स्ड assets.J.
Downes, J.E. Goodman, `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '', Baron 's Financial Guides, 2003 Current assets include inventory, while fixed assets include such items as buildings and equipment.J. Downes, J.E. गुडमैन, `` शब्दकोष of वित्त & निवेश शर्तें '', सामन्त 's वित्तीय मार्गदर्शिका, 2003 ; और J. G. siegel, N. dauber & J. K. shim, `` the बनियान जेब CPA '', Wiley, 2005.
Intangible assets are nonphysical resources and rights that have a मान to the कड़ क्युकी वे दे the कड़ कुछ दयालु of लाभ in the market place.
Examples of intangible assets are goodwill, copyrights, trademarks, patents and computer programs, and वित्तीय एसेट, सहित ऐसे वस्तुएं as खाते receivable, bonds और stocks.
A न्यूरॉन ( or ; भी ज्ञात as a neurone or nerve cell ) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical signals.
A chemical signal occurs via a synapse, a specialized कनेक्शन साथ अन्य कोशिकाएं.
Neurons connect to each अन्य to रूप neural संजाल.
Neurons are the core components of the nervous system, जिससे शामिल the दिमाग, स्पाइनल cord, and peripheral ganglia.
A number of specialized types of neurons exist : sensory neurons respond to touch, ध्वनि, लाइट और numerous अन्य stimuli affecting कोशिकाएं of the संवेदी अंगों कि तब भेजें सिग्नल to the spinal cord and brain.
Motor neurons प्राप्त सिग्नल इससे the दिमाग और स्पाइनल cord, कारण मांसपेशी contractions, and affect glands.
interneurons कनेक्ट न्यूरॉन्स to अन्य न्यूरॉन्स भीतर the same region of the brain or spinal cord.
A typical neuron possesses a cell body ( प्रायः पुकारा the सोम ), dendrites, और an axon.
Dendrites are thin structures कि उठता इससे the कोशिका देह, प्रायः extending लिये सैंकड़ों of micrometres and branching multiple times, giving rise to a complex `` dendritic tree ''.
An axon is a special cellular extension that arises from the cell body at a साईट पुकारा the axon उभरकर और ट्रेवल्स लिये a अलहदा, as दूर as 1 मीटर in इंसानो or even more in other species.
The cell body of a neuron frequently gives वृद्धि to अनेक dendrites, लकिन never to अधिक than एक axon, हालांकि the axon may branch hundreds of times before it terminates.
At the majority of synapses, सिग्नल हैं भेजा इससे the axon of एक न्यूरॉन to a dendrite of another.
There are, however, many exceptions to these rules : neurons that lack dendrites, neurons that have no axon, synapses कि कनेक्ट an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
All neurons are electrically excitable, maintaining voltage gradients across their membranes by means of metabolically driven ion पंपों, जिससे combine साथ आयन चैनल्स अंतःस्थापित in the झिल्ली to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular विशेषज्ञता मतभेद of ions ऐसे as सोडियम, पोटैशियम, chloride, और कैल्सियम.
Changes in the cross-membrane वोल्टेज can alter the फलन of voltage-dependent ion channels.
If the voltage परिवर्तन by a विशाल पर्याप्त राशि, an all-or-none electrochemical पल्स पुकारा an action potential is generated, which travels rapidly along the cell 's axon, and activates synaptic connections with other cells when it arrives.
न्यूरॉन्स do नहीं undergo cell division.
In सबसे मामले, न्यूरॉन्स हैं उत्पन्न by खास प्रकार of stem cells.
astrocytes, a प्रकार of glial कोशिका, have भी महरूम observed to फेरे into न्यूरॉन्स by virtue of the stem cell characteristic pluripotency.
In humans, neurogenesis largely ceases दौरान adulthood—but in दो दिमाग क्षेत्रों, the हिप्पोकैम्पस and olfactory bulb, there is strong evidence for generation of substantial numbers of new neurons.
Super Bowl XLIII was an American फ़ुटबॉल खेल between the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियन पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स और the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion Arizona Cardinals to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 season.
The Steelers पराजित the कार्डिनल्स by the score of 27–23.
The game was played on February 1, 2009, at रेमंड जेम्स स्टेडियम in tampa, Florida.
With this win, the Steelers became the पहला टोली to जीत छह Super Bowls.
Pittsburgh, who finished the regular season with a 12–4 record, also won their second Super Bowl in चार सालो बाद जीतना सुपर कटोरी xl at the समाप्त of the 2005 ऋतु.
the कार्डिनल्स डाला the खेल seeking उनके पहला एनएफएल शीर्षक since 1947, the longest championship drought in the league.
The club became an unexpected winner during the regular season, compiling a 9–7 रिकार्ड, और the playoffs साथ the सहायता of सिर कोच केन whisenhunt, जो थी the स्टीलर्स ' अप्रिय समन्वयक in सुपर कटोरी xl, और the re-emergence of quarterback Kurt Warner, who was the Super Bowl MVP in Super Bowl XXXIV with his former team, St. Louis Rams.
Pittsburgh jumped to a 17–7 मध्यांतर सीसे, aided by linebacker जेम्स हैरिसन 's Super Bowl record 100-yard interception return for a touchdown.
Trailing 20–7 at the start of the fourth क्वार्टर, एरिज़ोना scored 16 अनुत्तरित अंक, सहित wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown reception, to take the lead with 2:37 remaining in the game.
But the स्टीलर्स marched 78 गज to स्कोर on चौड़ी receiver santonio holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left.
Holmes, who caught nine passes for 131 yards and a touchdown, सहित चार receptions लिये 73 गज on कि फाइनल game-winning ड्राइव, was named Super Bowl MVP.
He became the sixth wide receiver to win the पुरस्कार, और भी थी the तीसरा पिट्सबर्ग receiver to जीत the पुरस्कार, following Lynn Swann and Hines Ward.
Despite the global financial crisis and limited amount of ancillary festivities that are normally held before the game, the NBC television network ब्रॉडकास्ट आकर्षित an औसत u.S. दर्शक of 98.7 लाख दर्शक, बनाना it the सबसे देखी सुपर कटोरी in इतिहास to that point.
A diagram of the electromagnetic वर्णक्रम, प्रर्दशित विभिन्न गुण आरपार the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic वर्णक्रम is the दायरा of सब संभावित बारंबारता of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक radiation.
The `` electromagnetic वर्णक्रम '' of an ऑब्जेक्ट रै a अलग अर्थ, और is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object.
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio संचार to गामा विकिरण at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) समाप्त, thereby covering wavelengths इससे हज़ारों of किलोमीटर bas to a भिन्न of the आकार of an atom.
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself, while it is thought that the short wavelength सीमा is in the vicinity of the प्लांक लंबाई, हालांकि in principle the वर्णक्रम is अनन्त और निरन्तर.
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions, as तरीके to पढ़ाई और characterize पदार्थ.
In addition, radiation from various parts of the spectrum has found many other उपयोग लिये संचार और निर्माण ( देखिए इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण लिये अधिक applications ).
लेजेंड
Marchantia, a liverwort
Bryophyte is a traditional name used to refer to all embryophytes ( जमीन पौधे ) कि do नहीं have सच्चा vascular ऊतक और are therefore called ' non-vascular plants '.
Some bryophytes do have specialized tissues for the transport of water ; however since ये do नहीं contain lignin, वे हैं नहीं माना to be सच्चा vascular ऊतक.
Currently bryophytes are thought not to be a natural or monophyletic group ; however the name is convenient and remains in उपयोग as a सामूहिक पद लिये mosses, hornworts, और liverworts.
Bryophytes produce enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia और sporangia ), लकिन वे उपज neither पुष्प nor seeds, reproducing via spores.
The term bryophyte comes from यूनानी βρύον, bryon, `` tree-moss, oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` plant ''.
A bank is a वित्तीय संस्था और a वित्तीय intermediary कि स्वीकृत जमा और चैनल्स those deposits into lending activities, either directly by loaning or indirectly through capital markets.
A bank is the connection between customers that have पूंजी deficits और ग्राहक साथ पूंजी surpluses.
due to उनके influence भीतर a वित्तीय प्रणाली and an economy, banks are generally highly regulated in most countries.
Most banks operate under a system ज्ञात as fractional आरक्षित बैंकिंग जहाँ वे थाम तभी a small reserve of the funds deposited and lend out the rest for profit.
They are generally subject to minimum capital requirements जिससे हैं आधारित on an अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियत of पूंजी मानकों, ज्ञात as the Basel Accords.
The oldest bank still in existence is Monte देई paschi di सियेना, headquartered in सियेना, इटली, जिससे रै महरूम ऑपरेटिंग लगातार since 1472.
It is followed by berenberg बैंको of हैम्बर्ग ( 1590 ) और sveriges Riksbank of Sweden ( 1668 ).
बैंकिंग in इसके आधुनिक भाव विकसित in समृद्ध शहरों of Renaissance Italy, such as Florence, Venice and Genoa.
In the history of banking, a क्रमांक of बैंकिंग dynasties —among उन्हें notably medici, fugger, welser, Berenberg, Baring and Rothschild —have played a central role over many centuries.
The Xbox is a video game कंसोल manufactured by microsoft.
It was released on November 15, 2001 in North America, February 22, 2002 in जापानी, और कूच 14, 2002 in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और Europe.
It थी microsoft 's पहला foray into the gaming console market.
As part of the sixth-generation of gaming, the एक्सबॉक्स competed साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 2, sega 's dreamcast ( जिससे रोका अमरीकी बिक्री before the Xbox went on sale ), and Nintendo 's GameCube.
The Xbox थी the पहला कंसोल offered by an अमरीकी company after the Atari Jaguar stopped sales in 1996.
The integrated Xbox Live service launched in November 2002 अनुमत खिलाड़ी to खेल खेल ऑनलाइन साथ a ब्रॉडबैंड connection.
It first competed with Dreamcast 's online service लकिन बाद primarily competed साथ प्लेस्टेशन 2 's online service.
Although these two हैं फ़्री जबकि एक्सबॉक्स सजीव जरूरी a सब्सक्रिप्शन, as खूब as broadband-only कनेक्शन जिससे थी नहीं completely adopted yet, Xbox Live was a success due to better servers, features such as a buddy list, and milestone titles like Halo 2 released in November 2004, which is the best-selling Xbox video game and was by far the most popular online game for years.
Xbox 's successor, the एक्सबॉक्स 360, was launched in November 2005.
The Xbox was discontinued in लेट 2005 in जापानी जहाँ बिक्री were poor.
It was discontinued in लेट 2006 in यूरोपीय और early 2007 in North America.
The last Xbox game in Europe was Tony हॉक 's प्रोजेक्ट 8 released in नवम्बर 2006, और the पिछला खेल in उत्तर अमेरिका was Madden NFL 09 released in August 2008.
support लिये out-of-warranty एक्सबॉक्स consoles थी discontinued on March 2, 2009, stating that any in-warranty repair now needed will not be undertaken.
Xbox अभिगम to एक्सबॉक्स सजीव थी रोका on April 15, 2010.
The Gospel According to John ( Greek τὸ κατὰ ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ), commonly referred to as the इन्जील of जॉन or बस जॉन और प्रायः referred to in नई वसीयत स्कॉलरशिप as the Fourth Gospel, is an account of the public ministry of Jesus.
It begins with the witness and affirmation by John the बैपटिस्ट और concludes साथ the मौत, दफ़न, क़यामत, और post-resurrection दिखावे of Jesus.
This खाता is चौथी of the canonical gospels, बाद the synoptics Matthew, Mark and Luke.
states that the book गर्भाशयी इससे the गवाही of the ' शिष्य whom Jesus loved. '
Along with Peter, the unnamed disciple is especially close to यीशु, और early-church परंपरा पहचाना उसे as जॉन the apostle, एक of यीशु ' Twelve Apostles.
The gospel is closely related in style and content to the three surviving Epistles of John such that commentators treat the four किताबे साथ, yet, according to सबसे आधुनिक विद्वानों, जॉन was not the author of any of these books.
Recent Christian Scripture scholarship more और अधिक रै लगाई जॉन भीतर a first-century यहूदी context.
Raymond E. Brown किया pioneering कार्य to ट्रेस the development of the tradition from which the gospel arose.
The discourses seem to be concerned with the actual issues of the church-and-synagogue बहस at the time when the Gospel was written.
It is notable that, in the gospel, the community still appears to define itself primarily विरूद्ध judaism, बल्कि than as भाग of a wider Christian church.
Though christianity प्रारंभ as a गति भीतर Judaism, gradually Christians and Jews became bitterly opposed.
John presents a `` higher '' Christology than the synoptics, अर्थ कि it describes यीशु as the अवतार of the दैवी लोगो through जिसको सब बाते यहूद बना, as the object of veneration, and more explicitly as God incarnate.
Only in John does Jesus talk at लंबाई परिचय खुद और उसके दैवी भूमिका, प्रायः साझा with the disciples only.
Against the synoptics, John focuses largely on अलग चमत्कार ( सहित resurrecting lazarus ), given as signs meant to engender faith.
synoptic तत्व ऐसे as parables and exorcisms are not found in John.
It presents a realized eschatology in which मोक्ष is already उपस्थित लिये the आस्तिक.
The plagues of मिश्र ( ), भी पुकारा the टेन plagues ( ) or the biblical plagues, यहूद टेन calamities कि, according to the biblical Book of Exodus, Israel 's God, Yahweh, inflicted upon Egypt to persuade Pharaoh to release the ill-treated Israelites from slavery.
Pharaoh capitulated बाद the दसवाँ प्लेग, triggering the Exodus of the Jewish people.
The plagues were designed to कंट्रास्ट the शक्ति of yahweh साथ the impotence of Egypt 's various gods.
Some commentators have associated अनेक of the plagues साथ निर्णय on विशिष्ट देवताओं संबद्ध साथ the Nile, fertility and natural phenomena.
The plagues of Egypt are also उल्लेखित in the कुरान ( 7,133–136 ).
According to the किताब of exodus, परमेश्वर proclaims कि सब the देवताओं of मिश्र will be judged through the tenth and final plague:
John Martin 's painting of the प्लेग of hail और आग ( 1823 ).
A role-playing game ( RPG और sometimes roleplaying खेल ) is a खेल in जिससे खिलाड़ी assume the roles of characters in a fictional setting.
Players लो जिम्मेदारी लिये एक्टिंग आउट ये भूमिकाएँ भीतर a कथा, either through शाब्दिक एक्टिंग or through a process of structured decision-making or character development.
Actions taken within many खेल सफल or असफल according to a formal system of rules and guidelines.
There are अनेक फ़ॉर्म of आरपीजी.
The original form, sometimes called the tabletop RPG, is conducted through discussion, whereas in सजीव कार्रवाई role-playing खेल ( larp ) खिलाड़ी physically perform उनके वर्ण ' क्रियाएँ.
In both of these forms, an arranger called a game master ( GM ) usually decides on the rules and सेटिंग to be प्रयुक्त और अधिनियमों as रेफरी, जबकि प्रत्येक of the अन्य खिलाड़ी plays the भूमिका of a single character.
Several varieties of RPG also exist in इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मीडिया, ऐसे as multi-player text-based muds और उनके graphics-based successors, massively multiplayer online role-playing games ( MMORPGs ).
Role-playing games also include single-player offline role-playing video games in which players control a अक्षर or टोली जो undertake quests, और may शामिल सामर्थ्य कि अग्रिम using सांख्यिकीय यांत्रिकी.
These games often share settings and नियम साथ tabletop rpgs, लकिन emphasize अक्षर उन्नति अधिक than collaborative storytelling.
Despite this variety of forms, कुछ खेल फ़ॉर्म ऐसे as व्यापार कार्ड खेल और wargames कि हैं सम्बन्धित to role-playing games may not be included.
role-playing कार्यकलाप may sometimes be present in such games, but it is not the primary focus.
The term is also sometimes used to describe roleplay simulation games and exercises used in teaching, प्रशिक्षण, और अकादमिक शोध.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ), was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery, especially the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories.
Foreign powers किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the Confederacy collapsed, slavery was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential चुनाव, republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
lincoln जीती, लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans rejected secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate सिविल युद्ध.
Eight remaining slave states जारी to अस्वीकृत काल्स लिये secession.
Confederate forces जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to ढूँढें a सुलह, और दोनो पहलू prepared for war.
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन, चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a नवल नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the southern economy.
The Eastern Theater थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation उदघोषणा, जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy, then much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of all Union armies in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending confederate फौज विफल, अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध थी one of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian factories, mines, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest war in American इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
इतिहासकार जॉन huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 years old, and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40.
The definition of the संसार 's व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र रै महरूम निर्दिष्ट by the एयरपोर्ट परिषद International in Geneva, Switzerland.
The ACI defines और उपायों the following three types of airport traffic:
Passenger traffic : total यात्री emplaned और deplaned, यात्री in transit counted once
Cargo traffic : loaded and मोड भाड़ा और मेल in मीट्रिक टन
Traffic movements : landings and take-offs of वायुयान
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted जबतक 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the संसार युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom, France and Russia ) and the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी, austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन, as austria–hungary था लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध the अनुबंध, इटली किया नहीं डालें into the युद्ध ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies, और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और बुल्गारिया the सेंट्रल Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million सैन्य कर्मियों, सहित 60 लाख europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in protection or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the way for various राजनैतिक परिवर्तन, ऐसे as revolutions in अनेक of the राष्ट्र शामिल.
One of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the युद्ध थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और, via उनके colonies, the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the world.
On 28 July, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of युद्ध विरूद्ध Germany.
After the जर्मनी कूच on पेरिस थी brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the रूसी फौज थी कामयाब against the Austro-Hungarians, but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war, opening up fronts in the काकेशस, मेसोपोटामिया और the sinai.
Italy और बुल्गारिया गई to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives और अमरीकी शक्तियां began entering the trenches.
Germany, which था इसके अपना ट्रबल साथ क्रांतिकारियों, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in विजय लिये the allies.
कार्यक्रम on the घर fronts यहूद as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, four major इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी, रूसी, austro-hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former two खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory, जबकि the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into अनेक smaller states.
The League of राष्ट्र थी formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism शाखित by the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
The Deepwater Horizon oil spill ( also referred to as the BP oil spill, the BP oil disaster, the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, and the Macondo blowout ) was an oil spill in the गल्फ of मैक्सिको on the bp -operated macondo prospect, माना the largest आकस्मिक marine oil spill in the history of the petroleum industry, estimated to be between 8 % and 31 % larger in volume than the earlier Ixtoc I oil spill.
Following the explosion and sinking of the deepwater क्षितिज आयल रिग, जिससे claimed 11 जीवनदान, a sea-floor आयल gusher flowed unabated लिये 87 days, until it was capped on 15 July 2010.
The total discharge is अनुमानित at.
A massive response ensued to protect beaches, wetlands and estuaries from the spreading oil utilizing skimmer ships, floating booms, controlled burns and of corexit आयल dispersant.
After several failed efforts to contain the प्रवाह, the खूब थी घोषित sealed on 19 September 2010.
Some reports indicate the खूब साईट continues to leak.
Due to the months-long spill, along with adverse effects from the response and cleanup activities, extensive damage to marine and वन्यजीव habitats, फ़िशिंग और पर्यटन उद्योग, और इंसान स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं have जारी through 2013.three सालो बाद the spill, तारकोल balls could still be found on the Mississippi coast.
Numerous investigations छान the कल्याणकारी of the explosion and record-setting spill.
Notably, the U.S. government 's September 2011 रपट pointed to defective सीमेंट on the खूब, faulting ज़्यादातर BP, but also well operator Transocean and contractor Halliburton.
Earlier in 2011, a White House commission likewise blamed BP and its partners for a series of cost-cutting decisions and an insufficient safety system, but also concluded कि the spill resulted इससे `` प्रणालीगत '' रूट कल्याणकारी और `` अनुपस्थित significant सुधार in दोनो उद्योग practices और government policies, might well recur ''.
In नवम्बर 2012, bp और the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of इंसाफ settled federal criminal charges with BP pleading guilty to 11 counts of manslaughter, two misdemeanors, and a felony count of lying to Congress.
BP also agreed to four years of सरकारी निगरानी of इसके सुरक्षा practices और आचार, और the पर्यावरणीय सुरक्षा एजेंसी announced that BP would be temporarily banned from new contracts with the US government.
BP and the Department of Justice agreed to a record-setting $ 4.525 billion in fines and other payments but further विधिक कार्यवाही नहीं अपेक्षित to conclude जबतक 2014 हैं जारी to determine payouts और जुर्माना अंतर्गत the साफ जल अधिनियम और the प्राकृतिक संसाधन क्षति मूल्यांकन.
As of February 2013, criminal and civil settlements और भुगतान to a विश्वास निधि था लागत the कम्पनी $ 42.2 billion.
`` जहाँ the गलियों have no नाम '' is a song by rock band U2.
It is the opening track from their 1987 एल्बम the जोशुआ पेड़ और थी released as the album 's third single in August 1987.
The song 's hook is a repeating guitar arpeggio using a विलंब प्रभाव, निभाई दौरान the song 's introduction and again at the end.
Lead vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in response to the notion that it is possible to पहचानो a व्यक्ति 's धर्म और आय आधारित on the गली on जिससे they lived, particularly in Belfast.
During the band 's कठिनाइयों रिकॉर्डिंग the सोंग, निर्माता ब्रायन eno माना erasing the सोंग 's tapes to have them start from scratch.
`` Where the Streets Have No Name '' was praised by critics और became a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, peaking at क्रमांक तेरह in the us, क्रमांक चौदह in कनाडा, क्रमांक टेन in the नीदरलैंड्स, and number four in the United Kingdom.
The song has become one of the बैंड 's सबसे लोकप्रिय गीतों और रै remained a स्टेपल of उनके सजीव अधिनियम चूंकि the song debuted in 1987 on The Joshua Tree Tour.
The song was notably performed on a Los Angeles rooftop for the filming of its music video, which won a Grammy पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन म्यूज़िक वीडियो.recently the सोंग रै महरूम प्रयुक्त by the एनएफएल 's बाल्टीमोर ravens as their entrance song in Super Bowl XLVII
Thomas Jeffrey `` Tom '' Hanks ( born जुलाई 9, 1956 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता, निर्माता, writer, and director.
Hanks is ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ in अपोलो 13, Big, That Thing You Do !
, The Green Mile, You 've Got Mail, Sleepless in Seattle, Charlie Wilson 's युद्ध, कैच me if तुम can, फॉरेस्ट गंप, डाल Away, A League of Their Own, The Da Vinci Code, Angels & Demons, as well as animated films like the Toy Story film series, The Polar Express, and The Simpsons Movie.
He has earned and been nominated for numerous awards during his career, including winning a Golden Globe for Best Actor and an Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Philadelphia and a Golden Globe, an Academy पुरस्कार, a स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार, और a लोगों 's चुनाव पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये उसके भूमिका in फॉरेस्ट गंप, और कमाई the स्टेनली kubrick britannia पुरस्कार लिये excellence in फिल्मी इससे the baftas in 2004.
Hanks is also known for his collaboration with फिल्मी निदेशक स्टीवन स्पिलबर्ग on छायांकन निजी रयान और the mini-series बैंड of भाइयो, which launched Hanks also as a successful director, producer and writer.
As of 2012, Hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 अरब at the संयुक्त राज्य बक्सा दफ्तर अलोन, और over $ 8.5 billion worldwide making him the highest all-time box office star.
The Cape is an American सुपरहीरो नाटक श्रेणी.
It premiered on NBC during the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season replacement beginning साथ a two-hour पायलट एपीसोड on संडे, जनवरी 9, 2011 at 9 pm पूर्वी और प्रशांत समय.
An encore निभाई on सोमवार, जनवरी 10, साथ follow-up एपीसोड continuing on सोमवार evenings in the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January 17.
NBC subsequently cut the total क्रमांक of एपीसोड to be aired इससे 13 to 10 as a परिणाम of low ratings.
On कूच 2, 2011, एनबीसी घोषित कि the श्रेणी finale होता तभी be aired on the network 's website.
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ), officially designated 1p/halley, is the best-known of the short-period धूमकेतुओं और is दृश्य इससे धरती प्रत्येक 75–76 years.
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly दृश्य to the नग्न नजर इससे धरती, और यूँ the तभी naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime.
Other naked-eye comets may be उज्जवल और अधिक spectacular, but will appear only once in thousands of years.
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System have been observed और अंकित by खगोलशास्त्रियों चूंकि at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's appearances यहूद बना by चाइनीज, babylonian, और मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय chroniclers, लकिन यहूद not recognized as reappearances of the same object at the time.
The comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी astronomer edmond हैली, बाद जिसको it is अभी नामित.
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the inner Solar प्रणाली in 1986 और होगा अगला appear in mid-2061.
During its 1986 apparition, Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft, providing the पहला observational आंकड़ा on the ढांचा of a धूमकेतु केंद्रक and the mechanism of coma and tail formation.
These observations समर्थित a क्रमांक of longstanding hypotheses परिचय धूमकेतु निर्माण, विशेषकर फ्रेड whipple 's `` गंदा स्नोबॉल '' मॉडल, जिससे correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water, carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust.
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for उदाहरण it is अभी समझा कि हैली 's सतह is largely composed of dusty, non-volatile materials, and that only a small portion of it is icy.
The following is a list of the most populous incorporated स्थान of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका.
As defined by the United States Census Bureau, an `` incorporated प्लेस `` शामिल a किस्में of designations, सहित नगर, कस्बा, गाँव, बरो, और नगरपालिका.
A few exceptional Census Designated स्थान ( cdps ) हैं भी शामिल in the जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's listing of incorporated places.
Consolidated city-counties represent a पृथक प्रकार of सरकारी कि includes the entire population of a county, or county equivalent.
Some संचित city-counties, however, शामिल अनेक incorporated places.
इस सूची presents तभी कि portion ( or `` संतुलन '' ) of ऐसे संचित city-counties कि are not a part of another incorporated place.
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual municipalities within their defined हद, जिससे करता नहीं शामिल अन्य municipalities or unincorporated suburban क्षेत्रों within urban agglomerations.
A different ranking is evident जब considering u.S. महानगर क्षेत्रफल populations.
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 English Pilgrims, सहित a कोर समूह of separatists, to नई इंग्लैण्ड.
Their story is one of travail and survival in a हर्ष नई संसार पर्यावरण.
A New Zealand forward ( in श्वेत ) takes a शॉट on लक्ष्य विरूद्ध Cameroon in the 2011 FIFA U-20 World Cup.
Forwards, also known as strikers, हैं the खिलाड़ी on a टोली in संघ फ़ुटबॉल जो खेल निकटतम to the opposing टोली 's लक्ष्य, और हैं इसलिए principally responsible for scoring goals.
This very advanced position and its limited defensive responsibilities mean forwards normally score अधिक लक्ष्य than अन्य खिलाड़ी.
इस स्थिति requires प्रज्ञा, speed, and power, both of execution and of thought, to perform the role well.
Modern team formations प्रायः शामिल एक to three forwards ; two is the most common.
Coaches typically field one striker who plays in an उन्नत स्थिति ( the केन्द्र आगे ), और another attacking आगे जो plays somewhat deeper and assists in making goals as well as scoring ( the second striker ).
It should be noted that inside forwards develop इससे attacking midfield स्थितियाँ और hence are naturally midfielders.
Barcelona FC star लियोनेल मेस्सी is a ठेठ attacking मिडफील्डर देखी as a आगे due to his shot accuracy.
A California domestic partnership is a legal संबंध उपलब्धियाँ to same-sex युगल, and to certain opposite-sex couples in which at least one party is at least 18 years of age.
It affords the couple `` the same rights, protections, और लाभ, और... the same responsibilities, obligations, and duties under law... '' as married spouses.
Enacted in 1999, the domestic partnership रजिस्ट्री थी the पहला of इसके दयालु in the संयुक्त राज्य निर्मित by a legislature without court intervention.
Initially, domestic partnerships enjoyed बहुत few privileges—principally बस hospital-visitation rights and the right to be claimed as a next of kin of the estate of a deceased partner.
The legislature has since विस्तारित the पैमाना of कैलिफ़ोर्निया घरेलू partnerships to शामिल सब of the अधिकारों and responsibilities common to marriage.
As such, California domestic partnerships हैं functionally समतुल्य to civil unions offered in several other states.
Although the program enjoys व्यापक support in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, it रै been the source of some controversy.
Groups opposed to the recognition of same-sex families have challenged the विस्तार of घरेलू partnerships in अदालत.
Conversely, advocates of same-sex marriage contend कि anything कम than पूरा विवाह अधिकारों विस्तारित to same-sex partners is analogous to the `` separate but equal '' racial laws of the Jim Crow era.
Mark A. Jackson ( born April 1, 1965 ) is an American basketball कोच, और पूर्व खिलाड़ी जो is the वर्तमान सिर कोच of the सुनहरी राज्य योद्धाओं of the NBA.
A point guard from St. John 's University, he निभाई लिये the नई यॉर्क knicks, इंडियाना पेसर्स, लॉस एंजिल्स क्लिपर्स, डेनवर टेंडर्स, Toronto Raptors, Utah Jazz and Houston Rockets in the NBA in a career spanning from 1987 to 2004.
Jackson has also worked as a कमेंटेटर लिये ईएसपीएन और एबीसी alongside उसके पूर्व coach Jeff Van Gundy and play-by-play man Mike Breen.
He was previously an एनबीए विश्लेषक लिये the यस संजाल 's New Jersey Nets games.
South Africa has eleven official भाषाएं : अफ्रीकी, अंग्रेज़ी, ndebele, उत्तरी sotho, sotho, swazi, tswana, Tsonga, Venda, Xhosa and Zulu.
Fewer than two percent of South africans बोलो a पहला भाषा अन्य than an official one.
Most South Africans can बोलो अधिक than एक language.
Dutch and English were the first official भाषाएं of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी इससे 1910 to 1925.
Afrikaans was added as a भाग of डच in 1925.
Dutch was replaced by Afrikaans when South Africa became a republic in 1961, and Dutch was dropped in 1983, so between 1983 और 1994, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी था दो आधिकारिक भाषाएं : अंग्रेज़ी और अफ्रीकी.
The English version of the South African constitution refers to the languages by the names in those languages : isiZulu, isiXhosa, Afrikaans, Sepedi ( referring to Northern Sotho ), Setswana, English, Sesotho ( referring to दक्षिणी sotho ), xitsonga, siswati, tshivenda और isindebele ( referring to दक्षिणी ndebele ).
In South Africa, Southern Ndebele is known simply as Ndebele, as most अध्यक्षों of उत्तरी ndebele सजीव in ज़िम्बाब्वे.
The 1993 संस्करण of the संविधान referred to उत्तरी sotho as sesotho sa Leboa, but the 1996 version referred to the language as Sepedi.
Different सरकारी विभाग और आधिकारिक bodies use different terms to denote Northern Sotho.
The main language of government is English even if दक्षिण africans प्रायः लो अभिमान in using indigenous languages for any purpose.
Afrikaans also features prominently in कॉमर्स साथ साथ अंग्रेज़ी as the भाषाएं साथ the उच्चतम number of fluent speakers are Afrikaans and English.
In terms of linguistic classification, the official languages शामिल दो west-germanic भाषाएं ( अंग्रेज़ी और अफ्रीकी ) और नौ bantu भाषाएं.
Four of these are Nguni भाषाएं ( ज़ुलू, ख़ोसा, स्वाति और ndebele ) और तीन हैं sotho–tswana भाषाएं ( उत्तरी sotho, दक्षिणी Sotho and Tswana ).
सोंगा is a tswa–ronga language.
South अफ़्रीकी चिह्न भाषा is a पृथक हालांकि incompletely उभरा national standard language which also subsumes a cluster of semi-standardised dialects.
एल्युमिनियम नाइट्रेट is a नमक of एल्युमिनियम और नाइट्रिक एसिड, मौजूदा सामान्यतः as a crystalline हाइड्रेट, most commonly as aluminium nitrate nonahydrate, Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O.
The New York Jets are a professional football team headquartered in florham पार्क, नई जर्सी, representing the New York metropolitan area.
The टोली is a सदस्य of the पूर्वी प्रभाग of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) in the National Football League ( NFL ).
In a अद्वितीय व्यवस्था लिये the लीग, the jets share metlife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey with the New York Giants.
The franchise is legally और corporately पंजीकृत as New York Jets, LLC.
The team was founded in 1959 as the टाइटन्स of नई यॉर्क, an असली सदस्य of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल लीग ; later, the franchise joined the NFL in the AFL–NFL merger.
The टोली began to खेल in 1960 at the Polo Grounds.
Under new ownership, the current name was अपनाया in 1963 और the मताधिकार थी relocated to shea स्टेडियम in 1964 और तब to the Meadowlands Sports Complex in 1984.
The Jets advanced to the playoffs for the first time in 1968 and went on to compete in Super Bowl iii जहाँ वे पराजित the बाल्टीमोर कोल्टस, बनने the पहला afl टोली to शिकस्त an एनएफएल क्लबों in an AFL-NFL World Championship Game.
Since 1968, the jets have appeared in the playoffs तेरह टाइम्स, और in the afc चैंपियनशिप खेल चार times, most recently losing to the Pittsburgh Steelers in 2010.
However, the Jets have never returned to the Super Bowl, making them one of three NFL teams to win उनके लोन सुपर कटोरी रूप, साथ साथ the नई ऑरलियन्स संतो और tampa खाड़ी buccaneers.
the टोली 's प्रशिक्षण सुविधा, अटलांटिक स्वास्थ्य jets Training Center, which opened in 2008, is located in Florham Park.
The team currently holds their annual training camp sessions on the campus of the State University of New York at cortland in cortland, नई यॉर्क जबकि पकड़कर occasional सत्र at the florham Park complex.
psilocybe semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms, also known as psychedelic mushrooms, हैं fungi कि contain psychoactive indole alkaloids.
There are multiple colloquial शर्तें लिये psilocybin मशरूम, the सबसे आम being shrooms and magic mushrooms.
Biological genera containing psilocybin mushrooms include Agrocybe, Conocybe, copelandia, galerina, gerronema, gymnopilus, hypholoma, inocybe, mycena, panaeolus, pluteus, और Psilocybe.
There are approximately 190 species of psilocybin mushrooms and सबसे of उन्हें पतन in the genus psilocybe.
Psilocybin mushrooms have likely been used since प्रागैतिहासिक टाइम्स और may have been depicted in rock art.
Many cultures have प्रयुक्त ये मशरूम in धार्मिक rites.
In modern पश्चिमी समाज वे हैं प्रयुक्त recreationally लिये their psychedelic effects.
Recent अध्ययन किया at इम्पीरियल कॉलेज लंदन और जॉन्स हॉपकिंस स्कूल of आयुर्विज्ञान conclude कि जब प्रयुक्त properly, psilocybin acts as an anti-depressant as suggested by fMRI brain scans.
Alaska ( ) is a राज्य in the संयुक्त राज्य, situated in the उत्तरपश्चिम extremity of the उत्तर अमरीकी महाद्वीप, साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary साथ कनाडा to the ईस्ट, the Arctic Ocean to the north, and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest राज्य in the संयुक्त राज्य by क्षेत्रफल, the 4th तनिक populous और the least densely populated of the 50 United States.
Approximately half of Alaska 's 731,449 residents live within the anchorage महानगर क्षेत्रफल.
Alaska 's अर्थव्यवस्था is वर्चस्व by the आयल, प्राकृतिक गैस, and fishing industries ; it has these resources in abundance.
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30, 1867, for $ 7.2 लाख ( $ समायोजित लिये महंगाई ) at लगभग two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The जमीन गई through अनेक प्रशासनिक परिवर्तन पहले बनने an व्यवस्थित ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11, 1912, and the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3, 1959.
the नाम `` अलास्का '' ( аляска ) थी already introduced in the रूसी औपनिवेशिक काल, जब it थी प्रयुक्त तभी लिये the प्रायद्वीप और is derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq, meaning `` the mainland '' or, more literally, `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed ''.
It is also known as Alyeska, the `` great जमीन '', an aleut शब्द निकला इससे the वही root.
The 101 फ्रेंच विभाग हैं विभाजित into 342 arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts.
The पूंजी of an arrondissement/district is called a subprefecture.
When an arrondissement contains the प्रीफ़ेक्चर ( पूंजी ) of the विभाग, कि प्रीफ़ेक्चर is the पूंजी of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.
Arrondissements are further विभाजित into cantons and communes.
The vagina ( from Latin vāgīna, literally `` sheath '' or `` scabbard `` ) is a tubular ट्रैक्ट जिससे is a sex अंग और रै दो प्रमुख कृत्यों ; sexual intercourse and childbirth.
In humans, this passage leads from the opening of the vulva to the uterus ( गर्भ ), लकिन the vaginal ट्रैक्ट ends at the ग्रीवा.
Unlike men, who have only one genital orifice, महिलाओं have दो, the urethra और the vagina.
The vaginal opening is much larger than the urethral खोलने, और दोनो उद्घाटन are protected by the labia.
The inner mould of the योनि रै a foldy बनावट जिससे can बनाएँ घर्षण लिये the penis during intercourse.
During arousal, the योनि gets नम to सुकर the प्रवेश of the penis.
The Latinate plural `` vaginae '' is rarely प्रयुक्त in English.
Colloquially, the word vagina is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to refer to the भग or to the female genitals in general.
However, by इसके शब्दकोष और anatomical परिभाषाएं, योनि refers exclusively to the specific internal structure.
The Cincinnati Reds are a Major League Baseball टोली आधारित in सिनसिनाटी, ओहियो.
They are सदस्यों of the नेशनल League Central Division.
Established in 1881 as an स्वतंत्र क्लबों, the टोली became a चार्टर सदस्य of the अमरीकी संघ in 1882, and joined the National League in 1890.
The club traditionally traces इसके उत्पत्ति to बेसबॉल 's first openly professional team in 1869.
the लाल have जीती पाँच संसार श्रेणी शीर्षक, एक अमरीकी Association pennant, nine National League pennants and ten division titles.
The Reds played in the नेशनल लीग वेस्ट between 1969 और 1993 और have been in the National League Central since 1994.
Since 2003, the लाल have निभाई at ग्रेट अमरीकी बॉल पार्क, निर्मित अगला to their home from 1970 to 2002, Riverfront Stadium.
bob castellini रै स्वामित्व the Cincinnati Reds since 2006.
a शरारत बदबू bomb.
A stink बमबारी is a यंत्र designed to बनाएँ an unpleasant smell.
They दायरा in प्रभावकारिता इससे सरल pranks to सैन्य ग्रेड malodorants or riot control chemical agents.
The Guinness Book of रिकॉर्ड सूचियाँ दो smelliest substances.
One is `` US Government Standard बाथरूम malodor '' ; a मिश्रण of आठ रसायन साथ a stench resembling human feces, only much stronger, designed to test the efficacy of deodorizers and air fresheners.
Another one, `` Who me ? ``, is a mixture of five sulfur-containing रसायन और खुश्बू जैसे rotting खाना और carcasses.
The adage `` A चित्र is लायक a हजार शब्द '' refers to the ख़्याल कि a complex idea can be conveyed with just a single still image.
It also aptly characterizes एक of the प्रमुख goals of visualization, namely making it possible to absorb large amounts of data quickly.
The अभिव्यक्ति `` उपयोग a picture.
It 's worth a हजार शब्द. '' appears in a 1911 समाचारपत्र आलेख quoting newspaper editor Arthur Brisbane discussing journalism and publicity.
1913 समाचारपत्र advertisement
A similar phrase, `` One Look Is Worth A Thousand Words '', appears in a 1913 समाचारपत्र विज्ञापन लिये the piqua स्वचालित सप्लाई House of Piqua, Ohio.
An early use of the exact phrase appears in an 1918 समाचारपत्र विज्ञापन लिये the सैन अंतोनियो लाइट जिससे says : एक of the स्वदेश 's Greatest Editors Says : One Picture is Worth a Thousand Words The San Antonio Light 's Pictorial Magazine of the War Exemplifies the truth of the above statement -- judging from the warm reception it has received at the hands of the Sunday Light readers.
It is believed by some that the modern use of the phrase stems from an article by Fred R. Barnard in the advertising trade journal मुद्रक ' स्याही, promoting the उपयोग of बिंब in विज्ञापन कि appeared on the पहलू of streetcars.
The December 8, 1921 issue carries an ad हकदार, `` एक dekh is लायक a हजार Words. ''
Another ad by Barnard appears in the March 10, 1927 समस्या साथ the phrase `` एक चित्र लायक टेन हजार शब्द, '' जहाँ it is labeled a Chinese proverb ( 一圖勝萬言 ).
The Home Book of Proverbs, Maxims, and Familiar Phrases quotes बर्नार्ड as saying he पुकारा it `` a चाइनीज कहावत, so कि लोगों होता लो it seriously. ''
Soon after, the proverb would become popularly attributed to कन्फ्यूशियस.
The discussion of `` एक चित्र लायक हजार शब्द '' बनाम `` एक चित्र लायक टेन हजार शब्द '' wan येन I hua and 10.000 miles worth 10.000 books is cited in Information graphics where the concept of many in different disciplines and cultures.
A चित्र is लायक a thousand words
Despite this आधुनिक उत्पत्ति of the लोकप्रिय phrase, the sentiment has been expressed by earlier writers.
For example the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev wrote ( in Fathers और बेटे in 1862 ), `` a चित्र shows me at a glance कया it takes दर्जनों of pages of a book to expound. ''
Computer programmer and author Fred Brooks makes an विपरीत बयान regarding प्रोग्रामिंग in the mythical man-month : `` दिखाएँ me अपना flowcharts और conceal your tables, and I shall continue to be mystified.
Show me your टेबल, और i won’t प्रायः need अपना flowcharts ; they’ll be obvious. ''
The phrase has also been spoofed by John McCarthy, the प्रसिद्ध कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक, to मेक the विपरीत पाइंट : `` As the Chinese say, 1001 words is worth more than a picture. ''
A season is a subdivision of the साल, चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in मौसम, पारिस्थितिकी, और घंटों of daylight.
Seasons result from the yearly क्रान्ति of the धरती around the सूर्य और the झुकाव of the धरती 's अक्ष सापेक्ष to the plane of revolution.
In temperate and polar regions, the seasons are marked by changes in the तीव्रता of धूप कि पहुँच the धरती 's सतह, विसंगतियाँ of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.
During May, June and July, the northern hemisphere is उजागर to अधिक सीधा धूप क्युकी the गोलार्ध चेहरों the sun.
The same is सच्चा of the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध in November, December and January.
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the सूर्य to be उच्चतर in the आसमान दौरान the गर्मियाँ महीने जिससे increases the solar flux.
However, due to seasonal lag, June, July and August are the hottest महीने in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और दिसम्बर, जनवरी और फ़रवरी हैं the hottest महीने in the दक्षिणी hemisphere.
In शीतोष्ण और subpolar regions, generally चार पंचांग -आधारd सीज़न ( with their adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ), summer ( estival ), autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ).
However, ecologists mostly उपयोग a छह ऋतु मॉडल लिये शीतोष्ण जलवायु regions कि शामिल pre-spring ( prevernal ) और लेट गर्मियाँ ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four.
Hot regions have दो or तीन सीज़न ; the बरसात ( or गीला, or मानसून ) season and the dry season, and in some tropical areas, a cool or mild season.
In some parts of the world, special `` seasons '' are loosely पारिभाषित आधारित on महत्वपूर्ण events such as a hurricane season, tornado season or a wildfire season.
The six ecological सीज़न
The four पंचांग सीज़न, चित्रित in an प्राचीन Roman mosaic from Tunisia
डच निर्यात in 2006
At the time of लिखने the नीदरलैंड्स is the 17th largest economy of the world.
( see : List of देशों by जीडीपी ( नाममात्र ) )
GDP per capita is roughly $ 42,000 which puts it in the top 10 of richest nations in the world ( देखिए : सूची of देशों by जीडीपी ( ppp ) per capita ).
Between 1996 and 2000 annual economic growth ( GDP ) averaged over 4 %, खूब ऊपर the यूरोपीय average.
विकास slowed considerably in 2001-05 as भाग of the वैश्विक economic slowdown.
2006 और 2007 however दिखाया आर्थिक growth of 3.4 % and 3.9 %.
The Dutch अर्थव्यवस्था थी hit considerably by the जारी वैश्विक वित्तीय crisis and the ensuing European debt crisis.
Several banks went bankrupt, and a number of अन्य था to प्राप्त सरकारी aid.
in 2009 the अर्थव्यवस्था अस्वीकृत with 3.5 %, followed by two years of mild growth.
The Dutch economy is फिलहाल in a मंदी again, साथ an आर्थिक मनाही of 0.5 % in 2012.
Inflation is at 3.2 % in फ़रवरी 2013.
Unemployment has been relatively low compared to अन्य eu राष्ट्र लिये दशकों लकिन बाद mid-2012 it रै देखी a fast increase and in February 2013 it has hit 7.7 %.
The Netherlands managed to maintain its AAA दरजा at तनिक जबतक कूच 2013 according to the three major credit rating agencies.
Historically, the डच introduced और invented the भण्डार मार्केट by the merchandise व्यापार through Dutch West India Company.
The Netherlands is a founding member of the European Union, the oecd और the संसार व्यापार संगठन.
Loyal to the खेल is the दसवाँ स्टुडियो एल्बम और छठे studio album by Tupac Shakur.
It contains remixes of previously unreleased music अंकित by shakur पहले उसके मौत in 1996.
Released in the United States on December 14, 2004 ( December 12 in the संयुक्त किंगडम ), वफ़ादार to the खेल थी उत्पादित by Eminem.
The original फलक of the दृश्य ; मेरेडिथ vieira, स्टार जोन्स, डिब्बी matenopoulos and Barbara Walters in 1997.
The View is an American talk दिखाएँ ब्रॉडकास्ट on एबीसी कि debuted in 1997 as part of the network 's daytime programming block.
Created by Barbara Walters and Bill Geddie, who both also serve as the दिखाएँ 's कार्यपालिका निर्माता, the कार्यक्रम सुविधाएँ a फलक of women as co-hosts.
Along with Walters, the वर्तमान फलक शामिल whoopi गोल्डबर्ग, जो serves as the मॉडरेटर, Joy Behar, Elisabeth Hasselbeck, and Sherri Shepherd.
International संस्करण of the कार्यक्रम हैं aired in several countries.
As of the 2012–13 season, its 16th, The View is the fourth-longest running नेशनल दिन बात दिखाएँ in इतिहास, behind The Phil Donahue Show ( 29 ), the variously-named Live !
programs ( 25 ), and The ओपरा विनफ्रे दिखाएँ ( 25 ).
Prunus virginiana, commonly called bitter-berry, chokecherry, Virginia bird cherry and western chokecherry ( also black chokecherry for P. virginiana var. demissa ), is a प्रजाति of बर्ड चेरी ( prunus subgenus padus ) देशी to उत्तर अमेरिका ; the प्राकृतिक ऐतिहासिक दायरा of P. virginiana शामिल सबसे of the महाद्वीप, except for the far north and far south.
Los Angeles International Airport is the primary airport serving the Greater Los Angeles Area, the second-most आबादी महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त राज्य.
It is most often referred to by its IATA विमानक्षेत्र कोड lax, साथ the अक्षर सुनाया individually.
LAX is located in southwestern Los Angeles along the Pacific coast in the पड़ोस of westchester, इससे the शहर कोर और is the प्राथमिक विमानक्षेत्र of लॉस एंजिल्स संसार Airports ( LAWA ), an agency of the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports.
In 2011, LAX was the sixth busiest airport in the world after Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, Beijing Capital International विमानक्षेत्र, लंदन हीथ्रो विमानक्षेत्र, शिकागो o'hare अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र, और टोकियो haneda अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport with 61,862,052 passengers.
The airport holds the claim for `` the world 's busiest उत्पत्ति और गंतव्य ( o & d ) विमानक्षेत्र '' in 2011 कि involves non-connecting passenger traffic.
It is also the only airport to rank among the शीर्ष पाँच u.S. एयरपोर्ट लिये दोनो यात्री और cargo traffic.
LAX is the busiest airport in the Greater Los Angeles Area, but other airports including Bob आशा विमानक्षेत्र, जॉन वेन विमानक्षेत्र, long बीच विमानक्षेत्र, la/ontario अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र, और ताड़ स्रोतों अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र भी serve the प्रदेश.
LAX is also the busiest airport in California and the West Coast of the United राज्य in शर्तें of उड़ान परिचालन, यात्री ट्रैफ़िक और एयर कार्गो कार्यकलाप, अग्रणी it to be referred to as the `` Gateway to the Pacific Rim ``.
Peyton Williams Manning ( born March 24, 1976 ) is an American फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक लिये the डेनवर broncos of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( NFL ).
He played लिये the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस for 14 seasons from 1998 to 2011.
He is the son of former NFL क्वार्टरबैक आर्ची मैनिंग और an elder bhai of नई यॉर्क दिग्गज quarterback Eli Manning.
Manning played कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल लिये the विश्वविद्यालयों of टेनेसी, अग्रणी the Volunteers to the 1997 SEC Championship in his senior season.
However, No. 3 Tennessee खोया to the no. 2 नेब्रास्का cornhuskers 42-17 in the नारंगी Bowl giving Nebraska and Tom Osborne their 3rd national championship in 4 years.
He was chosen by the Indianapolis Colts with the first overall चुनें in the 1998 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट.
From 1998 to 2010, he led the कोल्टस to आठ ( सात afc दक्षिण और एक afc ईस्ट ) प्रभाग championships, two AFC championships, and to a Super Bowl championship ( Super Bowl XLI ).
He रै जीती a रिकार्ड चार लीग सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार, थी the सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी of सुपर कटोरी xli, रै महरूम नामित to बारह प्रो प्याले, रै बारह 4,000-yard passing seasons, and is the Indianapolis Colts ' all-time leader in passing yards ( 54,828 ) and touchdown passes ( 399 ).
In 2009, he was named the best player in the NFL and Fox खेल साथ साथ खेल illustrated नामित उसे the एनएफएल खिलाड़ी of the decade of the 2000s.
In May 2011, he underwent neck surgery to alleviate neck pain and arm weakness he dealt with दौरान the पिछला few सीज़न पहले हस्ताक्षर a five-year, $ 90 लाख अनुबंध एक्सटेंशन with the Colts in July 2011.
Manning had hoped to play in the 2011 season, but in सितंबर 2011, he underwent a much अधिक गंभीर second surgery : a level one cervical fusion procedure.
Manning had never missed an NFL game in his career, but was मजबूर to मिस the संपूर्ण 2011 season.
He was released by the Colts on March 7, 2012, and after an almost two-week period where he visited with and worked आउट लिये अनेक एनएफएल टीमों, he हस्ताक्षरित साथ the डेनवर broncos on कूच 20, 2012.
Manning 's pre-snap दिनचर्या रै अर्जित उसे the उपनाम, `` the शेरिफ '' and is one of the most recognizable and parodied in the NFL.
The Indianapolis Colts ' almost exclusive use of the hurry-up ठोकर led to मैनिंग using an सरणी of इशारों and verbal commands to call the play at the line of scrimmage rather than in the huddle.
The America Tower of the अमरीकी सामान्य बीच, the headquarters of Baker Hughes
बेकर ह्यूजेस is एक of the संसार 's largest oilfield services companies.
It operates in over 90 countries, providing the oil and gas industry साथ उत्पाद और सेवाएं लिये खुदाई, गठन मूल्यांकन, पूर्णता, उत्पादन और टंकी परामर्श.
Baker Hughes has its headquarters in the America Tower in the अमरीकी सामान्य बीच in neartown, Houston.
Baker Hughes Incorporated was formed जब बेकर अंतरराष्ट्रीय और ह्यूजेस औजार कम्पनी merged in 1987.
Baker ह्यूजेस operates विश्वव्यापी साथ प्रमुख कार्यालयों in लिवरपूल, United Kingdom ; Singapore ; Dubai ; a research and maintenance facility in Celle, Germany ; Lafayette, Louisiana ; Houston, Texas ; Pescara, Italy ; and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
The company is administered broadly in two बांटती : the पूर्वी गोलार्ध साथ पाँच regions ( यूरोपीय, अफ़्रीकी, the मध्य ईस्ट, एशिया प्रशांत और russia/caspian ) और the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध साथ four regions ( Canada, US Land, US Gulf, and Latin America ).
Each of these regions is subdivided into markets.
The United States one- cent coin, commonly known as a पैनी, is a ईकाई of करेंसी equaling एक one-hundredth of a United States dollar.
the cent 's symbol is ¢.
इसके obverse रै प्रदर्शित the प्रोफ़ाइल of अध्यक्ष अब्राहम Lincoln since 1909, the centennial of his birth.
From 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of lincoln 's जनम ) to 2008, the रिवर्स प्रदर्शित the Lincoln Memorial.
Four different reverse designs in 2009 सम्मानित lincoln 's 200th जन्मदिवस और a new, permanent reverse – the Union Shield – was introduced in 2010.
The सिक्का is 0.75 इंच ( 19.05 mm ) in व्यास और 0.061 inches ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness.
The U.S. Mint 's official name for a पैनी is `` '' और the u.S. राजकोष 's आधिकारिक नाम is `` एक cent piece ''.
The colloquial term penny derives from the British coin of the वही नाम, the pre-decimal संस्करण of जिससे था a similar value.
In American English, pennies is the plural form, other plural forms pence and pee ( मानक उपयोग in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी ) हैं नहीं प्रयुक्त.
As of 2012, it लागत the u.S. मिंट 2.00 सेंट to मेक a cent because of the cost of materials and production.
इस फिगर शामिल the mint’s फिक्स्ड components for distribution and fabrication, estimated at $ 13 million in FY 2011.
It also includes Mint overhead आबंटित to the पैनी, जिससे थी $ 17.7 लाख for 2011.
Fixed costs and overhead would have to be absorbed by other circulating सिक्के बगैर the पैनी.
The loss in profitability due to producing the एक cent सिक्का in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये the साल of 2012 was $ 58,000,000.
इस थी a पतला घटी इससे 2011, the साल पहले, जिससे had a production loss of $ 60,200,000.
or more specifically, are ornamental varieties of domesticated common carp ( Cyprinus carpio ) कि हैं रखा लिये सजावटी उद्देश्य in बाहरी कोई तालाबों or water gardens.
Koi varieties are विशिष्ट by coloration, patterning, and scalation.
Some of the प्रमुख रंगों हैं श्वेत, ब्लैक, red, yellow, blue, and cream.
The सबसे लोकप्रिय श्रेणी of कोई is the gosanke, जिससे is बना up of the Kohaku, Taisho Sanshoku, and Showa Sanshoku varieties.
The American Federation of Government कर्मचारी ( afge ) is an अमरीकी मजदूर संघ representing over 650,000 employees of the federal government, about 5,000 employees of the District of Columbia, and a few hundred private sector employees, mostly in and around federal facilities.
AFGE is the largest union for civilian, non- डाक संघीय कर्मचारी और the largest संघ लिये ज़िला of कोलंबिया कर्मचारी जो report directly to the mayor ( i.e., outside of D.C. public schools ).
it is संबद्ध with the AFL-CIO.
A late सिल्यूरियन sporangium.
ग्रीन : a spore tetrad.
Blue : A spore bearing a trilete चिह्नित – the -shaped scar.
The spores हैं परिचय 30-35 μm आरपार
The evolution of plants has resulted in increasing levels of complexity, इससे the earliest algal मैट्स, through bryophytes, lycopods, ferns to the जटिल gymnosperms and angiosperms of today.
While many of the groups which appeared earlier continue to thrive, विशेषकर in the environments in जिससे वे विकसित, लिये a समय प्रत्येक नई ग्रेड of संगठन became more `` successful '' than its predecessors.
In the Ordovician period, around, the पहला जमीन पौधे appeared.
These began to diversify in the late Silurian Period, around, और the परिणाम of उनके diversification हैं प्रदर्शित in उल्लेखनीय विवरण in an जल्दी devonian fossil assemblage from the Rhynie chert.
This chert preserved जल्दी पौधे in सेल्यूलर detail, petrified in volcanic springs.
By the middle of the devonian काल, सबसे of the सुविधाएँ recognised in पौधे आज हैं उपस्थित, सहित जड़ें, पत्ते and secondary wood ; and, by late Devonian times, seeds had evolved.
Late Devonian plants had thereby reached a उपाधि of परिष्कार कि अनुमत them to form forests of tall trees.
विकासवादी नवीनता जारी into the carboniferous period and is still ongoing today.
Most संयंत्र समूह यहूद अपेक्षाकृत unscathed by the permo-triassic extinction event, although the structures of communities changed.
This may have set the scene for the appearance of the flowering पौधे in the triassic ( ~ ), and their later diversification in the Cretaceous and Paleogene.
The latest major group of plants to evolve were the grasses, जिससे became महत्वपूर्ण in the mid-paleogene, from around.
The grasses, as well as many other groups, evolved new mechanisms of metabolism to survive the low and warm, dry conditions of the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध over the पिछला.
The जीतना सुपर कटोरी टोली receives the Vince Lombardi Trophy.
The Super Bowl is an annual American football game that determines the चैंपियन of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( NFL ).
The contest is held in an American city that is chosen three to चार सालो beforehand, प्रायः in warm-weather or domed sites.
Since 1971, the winner of the American Football सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियनशिप खेल रै faced the विजेता of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( NFC ) Championship Game in the culmination of the NFL playoffs.
Before the 1970 merger between the American Football League ( AFL ) and the National Football League ( एनएफएल ), the दो लीग मिले in चार ऐसे प्रतियोगिताओं.
The first two यहूद ज्ञात as the `` afl-nfl संसार चैंपियनशिप Game. ''
Super Bowl III in 1969 was the first such game that carried the `` सुपर कटोरी '' moniker, the names `` सुपर कटोरी i `` और `` सुपर कटोरी ii `` were retroactively applied to the first two games.
The NFC /NFL लीड in सुपर कटोरी विन्स साथ 25, जबकि the AFC /AFL has won 22.
Eighteen different franchises, including teams that relocated to another नगर, have जीती the सुपर Bowl.
The Pittsburgh Steelers have won the most Super Bowls with six championships ( record 6–2 ), while both the डलास cowboys और सैन फ्रांसिस्को 49ers have पाँच विन्स प्रत्येक ( cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ).
Dallas and Pittsburgh have the most Super Bowl दिखावे साथ आठ, जबकि the भैंस बिल्स have the सबसे लगातार appearances with four losses in a row from 1990 to 1993.
The New England Patriots, Denver broncos और मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स have भी lost a record four Super Bowls.
Buffalo and Minnesota are दोनो 0–4, डेनवर is 2–4 और New England is 3–4.
The record for consecutive wins is two and is shared by seven franchises : the 1966-67 Green Bay Packers, the 1972-73 Miami Dolphins, the 1974-75 और 1978-79 पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स ( the तभी टोली to accomplish इस feat twice ), the 1988-89 San Francisco 49ers, the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys, the 1997-98 Denver Broncos, and the 2003-04 New England Patriots.
The only team with multiple Super Bowl appearances and no losses is the Baltimore ravens, जो in जीतना सुपर कटोरी xlvii unseated और replaced the 49ers in कि position.
Four current NFL teams have never appeared in a सुपर कटोरी, सहित मताधिकार relocations और renaming : the Cleveland Browns, Detroit Lions, Jacksonville Jaguars, and Houston Texans, though both the Browns and Lions had won NFL Championship games prior to the creation of the Super Bowl.
Martin County is a county स्तिथ in the u.S. राज्य of Texas.
As of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, इसके जनसांख्यिकी was 4,799.
Its सीट is Stanton.
The county is नामित लिये wylie मार्टिन, an early settler.
Martin काउंटी is एक of 30 निषेध, or entirely dry, counties in the state of Texas.
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP, ALKP ) ( ) is a hydrolase एंजाइम जिम्मेदार लिये निकालना फास्फेट समूह इससे अनेक प्रकार of molecules, including nucleotides, proteins, and alkaloids.
The process of निकालना the फास्फेट समूह is पुकारा dephosphorylation.
As the नाम suggests, क्षारीय phosphatases हैं सबसे effective in an alkaline environment.
It is sometimes प्रयुक्त synonymously as मौलिक phosphatase.
Triticale ( × Triticosecale ), ( ) is a संकर of गेहूं ( triticum ) और rye ( secale ) पहला करवाया in laboratories during the late 19th century.
the अनाज थी originally bred in Scotland and Sweden.
Commercially available triticale is almost always a second पीढी संकर, i.e., a क्रॉस between दो kinds of प्राथमिक ( first cross ) triticales.
As a rule, triticale combines the yield potential and grain quality of wheat साथ the बीमारी और पर्यावरणीय सहिष्णुता ( सहित मृदा conditions ) of rye.
तभी recently रै it महरूम विकसित into a commercially viable crop.
Depending on the cultivar, triticale can अधिक or कम resemble either of इसके parents.
It is grown mostly for forage or fodder, although some triticale-based foods can be खरीदा at स्वास्थ्य खाना स्टोर्स or हैं to be मिला in कुछ नाश्ता cereals.
When crossing गेहूं और rye, गेहूं is प्रयुक्त as the मादा जनक और rye as the male parent ( pollen donor ).
The resulting संकर is बंध्य, और जरूर be treated साथ colchicine to induce polyploidy and thus the ability to reproduce itself.
The primary producers of triticale हैं कैंडल, जर्मनी, फ़्रांस, Belarus and Australia.
In 2009, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ), 15.0 लाख टन यहूद harvested in 29 देशों आरपार the संसार.
The triticale hybrids are all amphidiploid, which means the plant is द्विगुणित लिये दो genomes निकला इससे अलग species.
In अन्य शब्द, triticale is an allotetraploid.
In earlier years, सबसे कार्य थी किया on octoploid triticale.
Different ploidy levels have महरूम निर्मित और evaluated over समय.
The tetraploids showed little promise, but hexaploid triticale थी कामयाब पर्याप्त to ढूँढें वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग.
The CIMMYT triticale improvement program wanted to improve खाना उत्पादन और nutrition in developing countries.
Triticale has potential in the उत्पादन of ब्रैड और अन्य खाना उत्पाद, such as cookies, pasta, pizza dough and breakfast cereals.
the प्रोटीन सामग्री is उच्चतर than कि of गेहूं, although the glutenin fraction is less.
The grain has also been stated to have उच्चतर levels of lysine than wheat.
Assuming increased acceptance, the milling industry will have to adapt to triticale, as the मिलिंग तकनीकों employed लिये गेहूं हैं मुलम्मा to triticale.
Sell et al. found triticale could be used as a फीड अनाज, और बाद शोध मिला इसके मंड थी particularly readily digested.
As a feed grain, triticale is already खूब स्थापित and of high economic importance.
It has received attention as a potential energy crop, and research is currently होने conducted on the उपयोग of the क्रॉप 's बायोमास in bioethanol production.
`` Puff, the Magic Dragon '' is a song लिखा by लियोनार्ड lipton और पीटर yarrow, और बना लोकप्रिय by Yarrow 's group Peter, Paul and Mary in a 1963 recording.
The सोंग हासिल ग्रेट लोकप्रियता.
A college football national championship in the highest स्तर of कॉलेजिएट खेल in the संयुक्त राज्य, फिलहाल the नेशनल कॉलेजिएट एथलेटिक संघ ( ncaa ) प्रभाग i फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision ( fbs ), is a नामांकन awarded annually by various third-party organizations to their selection ( s ) of the best college football team ( s ).
Division I FBS ( formerly Division I-A ) football is the only NCAA sport in जिससे a वार्षिक चैंपियन is नहीं संकल्पित by an NCAA sanctioned championship event.
Because the championship team is not संकल्पित by a ncaa चैंपियनशिप or टूर्नामेंट इवेंट, it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical national championship ``.
Since the NCAA, the sport 's शासी देह, करता नहीं determine or घोषित a नेशनल चैंपियन in इस field, determination of such has often engendered controversy.
A championship team is independently घोषित by विभिन्न individuals and organizations, often referred to as `` selectors ''.
These choices हैं sometimes at हालात with each other.
While the NCAA has never officially endorsed an सालाना चैंपियनशिप टोली, it रै प्रलेखित the चुनाव of अनेक selectors in the official NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision Records.
In addition, various third party analysts have independently published their own lists of what they have determined to be the सबसे legitimate चयन लिये प्रत्येक ऋतु.
These are also often at odds with each अन्य as खूब as व्यक्तिगत स्कूल 's दावा on नेशनल championships, जिससे, लिये any particular season, may or may not correlate to the selections published elsewhere.
Currently, two widely recognized national champions selectors are the Associated Press, which conducts a पोल of फ़ुटबॉल sportswriters, और the यूएसए आज कोच ' पोल, a पोल of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच संघ क्रियाशील कोच कि is contractually obligated to name the winner of the Bowl Championship Series championship game as its national champion.
The Milwaukee ब्रेवर्स हैं a पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The team is a member of the सेंट्रल प्रभाग of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल 's नेशनल लीग and plays its home games at Miller Park.
The team is so named क्युकी of the नगर 's संघ with the brewing industry.
The Washington Nationals are a पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
The नागरिकों हैं a सदस्य of the ईस्ट प्रभाग of the National League of Major League Baseball ( MLB ).
The team 's home ballpark is नागरिकों पार्क, स्तिथ on दक्षिण कैपिटल गली in southeast D.C., near the Anacostia River.
The park opened in 2008, replacing RFK स्टेडियम, the टोली 's घर इससे 2005 to 2007.
The Nationals ' name derives इससे the पूर्व वॉशिंगटन बेसबॉल टोली कि था the वही नाम ( प्रयुक्त interchangeably with Senators ).
Their nickname is `` the Nats '' —a shortened संस्करण कि थी भी प्रयुक्त by the old D.C. teams.
An expansion मताधिकार, the क्लबों थी संस्थापित in as the Montreal Expos, the first major league team in Canada.
They यहूद आधारित in मॉन्ट्रियल, क्यूबेक, और निभाई उनके home games at Jarry Park Stadium and later in Olympic Stadium.
In, the Expos won a division championship, won their first-ever playoff series by defeating the Philadelphia Phillies, 3–2, and advanced to the National League Championship Series, where they would go on to lose to the लॉस एंजिल्स डॉजर्स, 3–2, in उनके तभी postseason रूप दौरान the strike-shortened season.
The Expos had their highest जीतना प्रतिशत in the strike-shortened ऋतु of, when the team had the best record in baseball.
The team 's subsequent shedding of खिलाड़ी caused fan interest to drop off.
After the 2001 season, MLB considered revoking the team 's मताधिकार, साथ साथ either the मिनेसोटा जुड़वा or the tampa खाड़ी शैतान Rays.
After being purchased by MLB in 2002, the team was moved before the season to Washington and renamed the Nationals, the first relocation चूंकि the दूसरी वॉशिंगटन सीनेटरों स्थानांतरित to आर्लिंगटन, टेक्सास, और became the Texas Rangers in.
The Nationals are one of two MLB franchises, and the तभी एक in the नेशनल लीग, कि रै never played in a World Series ( the Seattle Mariners are the other ).
A contingent fee ( in the United States ) or conditional शुल्क ( in इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स ) is कोई शुल्क लिये सेवाएं provided जहाँ the शुल्क is देय तभी if there is a favourable result.
In the law, it is defined as a `` fee चार्ज लिये a वकील 's सेवाएं तभी if the lawsuit is successful or is favorably settled out of court....
Contingent fees are प्रायः गणना as a प्रतिशत of the क्लाएंट 's net recovery. ''
In the English legal system, it is generally referred to as no जीत no fee.
A conditional fee agreement between a विधि कड़ और a client.
The usual form of this agreement is that the solicitor will take a law case on the समझना कि if खोया, no भुगतान is made.
However, if the case is won, the lawyer will be हकदार to the सामान्य शुल्क आधारित on hourly billing, plus a success fee.
The success fee in इंग्लैण्ड जरूर be as a प्रतिशत no वृहद than 100 % of the normal fee.
This contrasts with the contingency fee in the us, जिससे देता the कामयाब attorney a प्रतिशत of the damages awarded in favor of his client.
This makes it easier for the poor to pursue their civil rights चूंकि वरना, to मुकदमा किसी लिये a अपकृत्य, एक जरूर पहला be धनवान पर्याप्त to pursue such litigation in the first place.
However, because of the high risk, few attorneys will take मामले on a आकस्मिकता आधार जबतक वे महसूस the मामला रै good merit.
According to a 2004 book by law professor Herbert Kritzer, contingent fees were allowed as of that year in the following countries : Australia, Brazil, कनाडा, the डोमिनिकन गणतंत्र, फ़्रांस, यूनानियों, आयरलैंड, जापानी, नई जीलैंड, the संयुक्त किंगडम और the संयुक्त States.
They are also allowed in निजी चोट क्रियाएँ in Lithuania.
recently, वे have महरूम अनुमत in Belgium as well.
a convocation ( लैटिन 'calling साथ ', translating the Greek ecclesia ) is a group of people formally assembled for a special purpose.
Sons of अराजकता is a टेलीविज़न नाटक श्रेणी निर्मित by कर्ट sutter परिचय the जीवनदान of a close-knit गैरकानूनी मोटरसाइकिल क्लबों ऑपरेटिंग in Charming, a fictional town in California 's Central Valley.
The show centers on समर्थक जैक्सन `` जैक्स '' teller ( चार्ली hunnam ), the then-vice अध्यक्ष of the club, who begins questioning the club and himself.
Sons of अराजकता premiered on सितंबर 3, 2008, on cable network FX.
The third season of the series आकर्षित an औसत of 4.9 लाख दर्शक प्रति सप्ताह, बनाना it fx 's उच्चतम रेटेड श्रेणी कभी, surpassing fx 's अन्य hits The Shield, Nip/Tuck, and Rescue Me.
On February 3, 2012, Sons of अराजकता थी नवीनीकृत लिये दो अतिरिक्त सीज़न, a fifth and a sixth.
Those involved in the production of the series imply कि a सातवाँ और फाइनल ऋतु is निर्माता Kurt Sutter 's plan.
The Grímsvötn sub-glacial lakes ( ; vötn = `` waters '', एकवचन : ) और the ज्वालामुखी of the same name are in South-East Iceland.
They are in the highlands of आइसलैंड at the northwestern पक्ष of the Vatnajökull ice-cap.
The झीलों हैं at, at an elevation of.
Beneath the झीलों is the मैग्मा कक्ष of the Grímsvötn volcano.
Grímsvötn is a basaltic ज्वालामुखी जिससे रै the उच्चतम फटना आवृत्ति of सब the ज्वालामुखी in आइसलैंड और रै a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system.
The massive climate-impacting laki फिशर फटना of 1783–1784 थी a भाग of the वही fissure system.
grímsvötn थी erupting at the वही समय as laki दौरान 1783, but continued to erupt until 1785.
Because most of the volcano lies underneath Vatnajökull, most of its eruptions have महरूम subglacial और the बातचीत of मैग्मा और meltwater इससे the बर्फ causes phreatomagmatic explosive activity.
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 utc, an फटना began, साथ ऊँची plumes accompanied by अनेक भूकंप, resulting in रद्दीकरण of 900 flights in Iceland, and in the United Kingdom, Greenland, Germany, Ireland and Norway on 22–25 May.
Until 25 May the eruption scale had been larger than कि of the 2010 फटना of eyjafjallajökull.
The eruption stopped at 02:40 UTC on 25 May 2011, although वहीँ थी कुछ विस्फोटक कार्यकलाप इससे the tephra vents affecting only the area around the crater.
Vetting is the process of performing a background जाँच on किसी पहले offering उन्हें नियुक्ति, conferring an award, etc.
A prospective person or project may be vetted पहले बनाना a भर्ती निर्णय.
In addition, in intelligence महफ़िल, एसेट हैं vetted to determine उनके उपयोगिता.
पूर्व मुख्यालय and current corporate offices
Caesars Entertainment Corporation ( formerly Harrah 's Entertainment from 1995 to 2010 ) is an American public gaming निगम कि owns और operates over 50 कसीनो, होटल, और सात गोल्फ़ पाठ्यक्रम अंतर्गत अनेक ब्रांड्स.
The company, based in स्वर्ग, नेवाडा, is the largest गेमिंग कम्पनी in the संसार, with annual revenues of $ 8.9 billion ( 2010 ).
Caesars is a public company, with a joint venture of Apollo वैश्विक प्रबन्धन और टेक्सास प्रशांत समूह ownig a विशाल portion of the stack and Blackstone Group also holding a significant stake.
The name change from `` harrah 's entertainment inc. '' to `` caesars entertainment निगम '' थी बना official on November 23, 2010.
harrah 's remains a कुंजी ब्रांड in the company.
On November 5, 2010, harrah 's घोषित an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering of 31,250,000 shares but retracted this offering on November 19.
A Permanent Resident in Canada is a person who is not a Canadian citizen but जो रै महरूम granted अनुमति to सजीव और कार्य in कनाडा बगैर कोई समय limit on his or her stay.
A permanent resident must live in कनाडा लिये दो सालो आउट of प्रत्येक पाँच or risk losing that status.
A Permanent Resident holds many of the वही अधिकारों और जिम्मेदारियों as a कनाडाई नागरिक, among अन्य the सही to कार्य लिये कोई एंटरप्राइज़ as खूब as लिये the federal or provincial government ( under restriction of access rights to certain regulated professions ).
The main मतभेद हैं कि निवासियों can not :
vote in चुनावों in कनाडा ;
चलाएं लिये elected office ;
hold कनाडाई passports ;
In addition, they may be allowed to जुड़ें कनाडा 's हथियारबंद शक्तियां if the नेशनल interest would not be prejudiced.
Permanent residents also रिस्क प्रत्यर्पण लिये गंभीर अपराधों वचनबद्ध while resident in Canada.
Permanent निवासियों may लागू लिये कनाडाई नागरिकता बाद three years in Canada ; however this is not mandatory.
Erica Kane is a fictional अक्षर इससे the अमरीकी एबीसी दिन soap opera All My Children.
The अक्षर थी portrayed by अभिनेत्री सुसान lucci from her debut on January 16, 1970 until the last broadcast television episode aired on September 23, 2011.
On February 11, 2013, it थी घोषित कि lucci होगा guest-star on the Prospect Park 's continuation of All My Children.
In the U.S., Erica is माना to be the सबसे लोकप्रिय character in soap opera history.
Regarding the north-american मार्केट, tv मार्गदर्शिका काल्स उसके `` unequivocally the सबसे प्रसिद्ध soap opera character in the history of daytime TV '', and included her in their 2013 list of The 60 Nastiest Villains of All Time.
A graph of the US CPI from 1913 to 2006 ( in blue ), और इसके प्रतिशत सालाना बदलें ( in red )
A consumer price index ( CPI ) उपायों परिवर्तन in the दाम स्तर of a मार्केट बास्केट of उपभोक्ता goods and services purchased by households.
The CPI in the United States is defined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as `` a measure of the औसत बदलें over समय in the कीमतें सशुल्क by शहरी उपभोक्ता लिये a मार्केट basket of consumer goods and services. ''
The CPI is a सांख्यिकीय अनुमान constructed using the prices of a sample of representative items whose prices are collected periodically.
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are computed for different categories and sub-categories of goods and services, being संयुक्त to उपज the overall अनुक्रमणिका साथ weights reflecting उनके साझा in the कुल of the consumer expenditures covered by the index.
It is one of अनेक दाम indices गणना by सबसे नेशनल statistical agencies.
The annual percentage change in a cpi is प्रयुक्त as a माप of inflation.
A CPI can be used to अनुक्रमणिका ( i.e., समायोजन लिये the प्रभाव of महंगाई ) the real value of wages, salaries, pensions, for regulating prices and for deflating monetary magnitudes to show changes in real values.
In most countries, the CPI is, साथ साथ the जनसांख्यिकी जनसांख्यिकी और the यूएसए नेशनल Income and Product Accounts, one of the most closely watched national economic statistics.
Knocking on wood, or to touch wood, refers to the apotropaic tradition in western folklore of literally touching/knocking on लकडी, or merely stating कि तुम हैं doing or intend वही, in अनुक्रम to avoid `` tempting भाग्य `` बाद बनाना a favourable observation, a boast, or declaration concerning one 's own death.
रॉकर भुजा
Generally referred to within the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the आतंरिक दहन इंजन of ऑटोमोटिव, समुद्री, मोटरसाइकिल और प्रत्यागमनी विमानन engines, the rocker arm is an oscillating lever that conveys radial movement from the cam lobe into linear movement at the poppet valve to open it.
One end is raised और lowered by a घूर्णन पालि of the camshaft ( either सीधे or via a tappet ( lifter ) और pushrod ) while the other end acts on the valve stem.
When the camshaft lobe raises the outside of the arm, the अंदर दबाता bas on the वाल्व स्टेम, खोलने the valve.
When the outside of the भुजा is permitted to वापसी due to the camshafts रोटेशन, the अंदर उदय, allowing the valve spring to close the valve.
the ड्राइव कैम is चलित by the camshaft.
This pushes the rocker भुजा up और bas परिचय the trunnion pin or rocker shaft.
Friction may be घटाया at the पाइंट of सम्पर्क साथ the valve stem by a roller cam follower.
A समान व्यवस्था हस्तांतरण the motion via another roller cam follower to a second rocker arm.
इस घुमाता परिचय the रॉकर शाफ्ट, और हस्तांतरण the motion via a tappet to the poppet valve.
In this मामला इस opens the सेवन valve to the cylinder head.
The effective leverage of the arm ( and thus the force it can exert on the वाल्व स्टेम ) is संकल्पित by the रॉकर भुजा अनुपात, the अनुपात of the अलहदा इससे the रॉकर भुजा 's बीच of रोटेशन to the tip divided by the distance from the center of rotation to the point acted on by the camshaft or pushrod.
Current automotive design favors रॉकर भुजा ratios of परिचय 1.5:1 to 1.8:1.
However, in the past smaller positive ratios ( the valve lift is वृहद than the कैम लिफ्ट ) और भी ऋणात्मक ratios ( वाल्व लिफ्ट छोटी than the cam lift ) have been used.
अनेक pre-ww2 इंजन use 1:1 ( neutral ) ratios.
For car engines the रॉकर बाहें हैं generally स्टील stampings, providing a reasonable balance of strength, weight and economical cost.
Because the rocker arms are, in भाग, प्रत्यागमनी वज़न, excessive द्रव्यमान विशेषकर at the लीवर ends हद the engine 's ability to reach high operating speeds.
`` The Night the Lights Went Out in Georgia '' is a Southern Gothic song लिखा by songwriter bobby रसेल और performed in 1972 by his then-wife Vicki Lawrence.
reba mcentire बाद covered it in 1991.
Recorded in late October 1972 in United/Western Studios on Sunset in हॉलीवुड और released कम than दो सप्ताह बाद in नवम्बर 1972, the सोंग centers around the older brother of the narrator, falsely convicted of and executed for a murder, which the narrator herself has committed.
In postal mail, a return address is an explicit inclusion of the address of the व्यक्ति sending the संदेश.
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) with a means to determine कैसा to respond to the प्रेषक of the संदेश if needed.
The return address need not include a sender 's name, but should include address or P.O. box details in the वही रास्ता as the डिलीवरी पता should.
In some countries, the वापसी पता is conventionally स्तिथ in the अपर left hand corner of the envelope, card, or label.
In the संयुक्त किंगडम, the वापसी पता is प्रायः लगाई on the reverse of the envelope, near the top.
Businesses often use लिफाफे preprinted with a return address.
Many individuals have चादरें of चिपकने लेबल्स preprinted with their home address to affix to their correspondence.
धर्मार्थ sometimes शामिल ऐसे चादरें in mailshots.
Rolls of Return Address Labels can be purchased from companies that sell personalized लेबल्स to provide individuals an आसान रास्ता to छिलके और स्टिक वापसी पता लेबल्स to their envelopes.
The return पता is नहीं जरूरी on डाक mail.
However, कमी of a वापसी पता रोकता the डाक सेवा इससे होने समर्थ to वापसी the मद if it proves undeliverable ; such as from damage, postage due, or invalid destination.
Such mail may यूँ become मुर्दे अक्षर mail.
Should the return पता be of a अलग राज्य or देश, the मेल may be routed through that location for ease of return.
A nerve guidance conduit ( also referred to as an कृत्रिम तंत्रिका conduit or कृत्रिम तंत्रिका graft, as opposed to an autograft ) is an कृत्रिम अर्थात् of guiding axonal regrowth to facilitate nerve regeneration and is one of several clinical treatments for nerve injuries.
When direct suturing of the दो आउट of a severed तंत्रिका can नहीं be संपन्नता बगैर टेंशन, the मानक clinical treatment for peripheral nerve injuries is autologous nerve grafting.
Due to the limited availability of donor tissue and functional recovery in autologous nerve grafting, neural tissue engineering research has केन्द्रित on the विकास of bioartificial तंत्रिका मार्गदर्शन conduits as an वैकल्पिक उपचार, especially for large defects.
Similar techniques are also being explored for nerve मरम्मत in the स्पाइनल cord लकिन तंत्रिका regeneration in the सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली मुद्राएँ a वृहद चुनौती because its axons do not regenerate appreciably in their native environment.
The creation of artificial conduits is भी ज्ञात as entubulation क्युकी the तंत्रिका ends और intervening गैप हैं enclosed within a tube composed of biological or synthetic materials.
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic tube, synthetic tube or tissue-engineered conduit, it चाहिए सुकर neurotropic और neurotrophic संचार between the proximal और distal ends of the तंत्रिका गैप, ब्लाक बाह्य inhibitory कारकों, और provide a physical guidance for axonal regrowth.
The most basic objective of a nerve guidance conduit is to combine शारीरिक, रासायनिक, और biological cues अंतर्गत शर्तें कि होगा foster tissue formation.
Materials that have महरूम प्रयुक्त to मेक biologic tubes शामिल रक्त बरतन और skeletal मांसपेशियां, जबकि nonabsorbable और bioabsorbable सिंथेटिक tubes have been made from silicone and polyglycolide respectively.
Tissue-engineered nerve guidance conduits हैं a संयोजन of अनेक तत्व : scaffold ढांचा, scaffold सामग्री, सेल्यूलर therapies, neurotrophic कारकों and biomimetic materials.
The choice of which physical, chemical and biological cues to use is based on the गुण of the तंत्रिका पर्यावरण, जिससे is नाजुक in बनाना the सबसे वांछनीय पर्यावरण लिये axon regeneration.
The factors that control material selection include biocompatibility, biodegradability, mechanical अखंडता, controllability दौरान तंत्रिका विकास, implantation और नसबंदी.
Hardcore Pawn is an American reality television series produced by RDF USA ( later Zodiak USA ) and Richard Dominick Productions for truTV about the day-to-day परिचालन of अमरीकी आभूषण और ऋण, a family-owned साहूकार दूकान स्तिथ at 20450 greenfield सड़क, between 8 Mile Road and the John C. Lodge Freeway in Detroit, Michigan.
The series premiered on अगस्त 16, 2010, delivering दो लाख दर्शक, सेटिंग a record as truTV 's most-watched series premiere ever.
amoxicillin bp
Amoxicillin ( INN ), formerly amoxycillin ( BAN ), and abbreviated amox, is a moderate-spectrum, bacteriolytic, β-lactam antibiotic प्रयुक्त to treat bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms.
It is usually the drug of चुनाव भीतर the क्लास क्युकी it is बेहतर अवशोषित, following oral administration, than other β-lactam antibiotics.
Amoxicillin is one of the सबसे आम एंटीबायोटिक विहित लिये children.
The ड्रग became उपलब्धियाँ in 1972.
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing जीवाणु, जिससे हैं resistant to a broad spectrum of β-lactam antibiotics, such as penicillin.
For this कारण, it is प्रायः संयुक्त साथ clavulanic acid, a β-lactamase inhibitor.
This increases प्रभावकारिता by reducing इसके susceptibility to β-lactamase resistance.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27, 1908 – जनवरी 22, 1973 ), प्रायः referred to as lbj, थी the 36th अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1963–1969 ), a position he assumed after his service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ).
He is one of only four people who served in सब चार निर्वाचित संघीय कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त राज्य : प्रतिनिधि, सीनेटर, Vice President, and President.
Johnson, a Democrat from Texas, served as a United States Representative from 1937–1949 and as a सीनेटर इससे 1949–1961, सहित छह सालो as संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट बहुमत नेता, दो as सीनेट अल्पसंख्यक नेता और दो as सीनेट Majority Whip.
बाद campaigning unsuccessfully लिये the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन in 1960, Johnson was asked by John F. Kennedy to be his running mate for the 1960 presidential election.
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of जॉन F. कैनेडी on नवम्बर 22, 1963, समाप्त कैनेडी 's पद और थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष in उसके अपना सही, जीतना by a विशाल हाशिया over बैरी goldwater in the 1964 election.
Johnson was greatly supported by the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी और as अध्यक्ष, he थी जिम्मेदार लिये डिजाइनिंग the `` ग्रेट समाज `` विधान कि शामिल कानून कि upheld civil rights, public broadcasting, Medicare, Medicaid, environmental protection, aid to education, and his `` War on Poverty. ''
जॉनसन थी प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके domineering व्यक्तित्व और the `` जॉनसन उपचार, '' his coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance legislation.
Meanwhile, Johnson escalated American भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध, इससे 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 कॉम्बैट सैनिकों in जल्दी 1968, as अमरीकी हताहत soared and the peace process bogged down.
The involvement stimulated a विशाल एंग्री antiwar गति based especially on university campuses in the U.S. and abroad.
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965, और अपराधों दरों soared, as उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों उठाया मांगे for `` law and order '' policies.
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding गिरोहों, और बाद जॉनसन किया poorly in the 1968 नई हैम्पशायर primary, he ended his bid for reelection.
Republican रिचर्ड निक्सन थी निर्वाचित to succeed him.
Historians argue that Johnson 's प्रेसिडेंसी चिह्नित the शिखर of आधुनिक उदारतावाद in the United States after the New Deal era.
Johnson is ranked favorably by some इतिहासकारों क्युकी of उसके domestic policies.
The Big बंग सिद्धान्त डाल at कॉमिक कॉन 2009, इससे बाएँ : कुणाल Nayyar, Simon Helberg, Kaley Cuoco, Jim Parsons, and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त, निर्मित और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by चक lorre और विधेयक prady, premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon कूपर और लियोनार्ड hofstadter, दो caltech physicists ; पैनी, a वेट्रेस और aspiring अभिनेत्री जो जीवनदान आरपार the हॉल ; और Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz, and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ), a physicist colleague, and, at different times, a lover of both Leonard and Howard ; Bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), a microbiologist, हावर्ड 's fiancée और subsequent बीवी, और पूर्व part-time वेट्रेस alongside पैनी ; neuroscientist एमी farrah fowler ( ऋतु 3 अतिथि ; ऋतु 4 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner, Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ), who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space.
The show also features numerous supporting characters, each of जिसको plays a prominent भूमिका in a छोटी group of episodes.
The American Civil War ( acw ), भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
the युद्ध था इसके उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी, विशेषकर the extension of slavery into the western territories.
Foreign शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed, गुलामी थी abolished, और the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 presidential election, Republicans, led by Abraham Lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories.
Lincoln won, but before his उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic President James बुकानन और the आवक republicans rejected secession as illegal.
lincoln 's inaugural पता declared his administration would not initiate civil war.
Eight बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी to अस्वीकृत calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the confederacy.
A Peace Conference failed to ढूँढें a सुलह, और दोनो पहलू prepared लिये war.
The Confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by Union troops in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन, चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the Confederacy, bringing their total to eleven.
The संघ जल्द नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy.
the पूर्वी थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी a युद्ध लक्ष्य.
To the west, by गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी, तब much of उनके western armies, and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Western successes led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ सेना in 1864.
In the Western Theater, विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा and marched to the sea, destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश, और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards Richmond, the Confederate capital.
The defending confederate फौज विफल, अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865.
The अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध थी एक of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the telegraph, steamships, और mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी white males aged 18–40.
Human evolution refers to the evolutionary प्रक्रम अग्रणी up to the रूप of आधुनिक humans.
While it began with the last common ancestor of all life, the टॉपिक प्रायः कवर तभी the विकासवादी इतिहास of primates, in particular the genus Homo, and the emergence of Homo sapiens as a distinct species of hominids ( or `` great apes '' ).
The study of human evolution involves अनेक वैज्ञानिक disciplines, सहित शारीरिक मानवशास्त्र, primatology, archaeology, linguistics, evolutionary psychology, embryology and genetics.
According to genetic studies, primates diverged from other स्तनधारियों परिचय in the लेट cretaceous काल, और the earliest जीवाश्मों appear in the paleocene, around.
The family Hominidae diverged from the Hylobatidae ( Gibbon ) family 15-20 लाख सालो पहले, और around, the ponginae ( orangutans ), diverged from the Hominidae family.
Bipedalism is the basic adaption of the Hominin line, and the earliest bipedal hominin is माना to be either sahelanthropus or orrorin, साथ ardipithecus, a पूरा bipedal, coming somewhat later.
The gorilla and chimpanzee diverged around the same समय, परिचय 4-6 लाख सालो पहले, और either sahelanthropus or orrorin may be our last shared ancestor with them.
The early bipedals आखिरकार विकसित into the australopithecines and later the genus Homo.
The earliest documented सदस्यों of the genus होमो हैं होमो habilis which evolved around ; the earliest species for which there is positive evidence of use of stone tools.
The brains of these early hominins यहूद परिचय the same size as that of a chimpanzee.
During the next million years a process of encephalization began, और साथ the आगमन of होमो इरेक्टस in the चट्टान रिकार्ड, cranial क्षमता था doubled to 850 cm3.
Homo erectus and Homo ergaster were the first of the hominina to leave अफ़्रीकी, और ये प्रजाति स्प्रेड through अफ़्रीकी, एशिया, और यूरोपीय between.
It is believed कि ये प्रजाति यहूद the first to use fire and complex tools.
according to the हाल अफ़्रीकी ancestry सिद्धान्त, आधुनिक इंसानो विकसित in अफ़्रीकी possibly from Homo heidelbergensis, Homo rhodesiensis or Homo antecessor and migrated out of the continent some 50,000 to 100,000 years ago, replacing local populations of Homo erectus, Homo denisova, Homo floresiensis and Homo neanderthalensis.
Archaic होमो sapiens, the forerunner of anatomically आधुनिक इंसानो, evolved between 400,000 and 250,000 years ago.
Recent DNA evidence suggests that several haplotypes of Neanderthal origin are present among all non-African populations, and Neanderthals and other hominids, ऐसे as denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of उनके genome to present-day इंसानs. < संदर्भ name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > anatomically आधुनिक इंसानो विकसित इससे archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic, about 200,000 years ago.
The transition to behavioral modernity with the development of symbolic culture, language, और specialized lithic प्रौद्योगिकी happened around 50,000 सालो पहले according to अनेक विज्ञानियों हालांकि कुछ सुझाएँ a क्रमिक बदलें in बर्ताव over a longer time span.
लिसा cuddy, m.d., is a fictional अक्षर on the Fox network medical drama House.
She is portrayed by लिसा Edelstein.
Cuddy was the Dean of आयुर्विज्ञान और हॉस्पिटल व्यवस्थापक of the fictional princeton-plainsboro Teaching Hospital in New Jersey.
She also becomes हाउस 's प्रेम ब्याज through the सालो to प्रारंभ a संबंध with him in season seven.
Cuddy quit her job after the events of ऋतु सात 's finale `` चलती On ``.
Track and field is a sport comprising विभिन्न प्रतिस्पर्धी एथलेटिक प्रतियोगिताओं आधारित on कार्यशील, jumping, and throwing.
The name of the खेल गर्भाशयी इससे the प्रतियोगिता स्थान : a स्टेडियम with an oval running track around a grass field.
The throwing and jumping कार्यक्रम generally लो प्लेस in the central enclosed area.
Track and field falls अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ खेल of एथलेटिक्स, जिससे भी includes road running, cross country running, and race walking.
The two most prestigious international track and field competitions are held under the banner of athletics : the एथलेटिक्स प्रतियोगिता at the ओलम्पिक खेल और the आइएएएफ World Championships in Athletics.
The International Association of Athletics Federations is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय शासी देह लिये track और फ़ील्ड.
Track and field events are generally व्यक्तिगत खेल साथ एथलीट चुनौतीपूर्ण प्रत्येक अन्य to decide a single victor.
The racing events are won by the खिलाड़ी साथ the तीव्रतम समय, जबकि the कूद और फेंकना कार्यक्रम हैं जीती by the खिलाड़ी जो रै achieved the greatest distance or height in the contest.
The running events are categorised as sprints, मध्य और long-distance events, relays, and hurdling.
Regular jumping events include long jump, triple jump, high jump and pole vault, जबकि the सबसे आम फेंकना कार्यक्रम हैं शॉट put, javelin, discus and hammer.
There are also `` संयुक्त कार्यक्रम '', ऐसे as heptathlon और decathlon, in जिससे एथलीट compete in a number of the above events.
Records are kept of the best performances in specific events, at world और नेशनल स्तर, सही bas to a निजी स्तर.
However, if athletes are deemed to have violated the इवेंट 's नियम or regulations, वे हैं disqualified इससे the प्रतियोगिता और उनके marks are erased.
In North America, the term track and field may be used to refer to एथलेटिक्स in सामान्य, बल्कि than specifically track और फ़ील्ड events.
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February 1991 ), codenamed Operation Desert Storm ( 17 जनवरी 1991 – 28 फ़रवरी 1991 ) थी a युद्ध waged by a u.n.-authorized गठबन्धन फ़ोर्स इससे 34 nations led by the United States, against Iraq in response to Iraq 's invasion and annexation of Kuwait.
The war is also known under अन्य names, ऐसे as the पारसी गल्फ युद्ध, पहला गल्फ युद्ध, गल्फ युद्ध i, or the पहला इराकी युद्ध, पहले the पद `` इराकी युद्ध '' became पहचाना बजाय साथ the 2003 Iraq War ( also referred to in the U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi Freedom '' ).
Kuwait 's invasion by Iraqi troops that began 2 August 1990 was met with international condemnation, और brought तात्कालिक आर्थिक प्रतिबंधों विरूद्ध इराकी by सदस्यों of the U.N. Security Council.
U.S. President George H. W. Bush deployed U.S. forces into Saudi अरब, और urged अन्य देशों to भेजें उनके अपना शक्तियां to the scene.
An array of nations joined the गठबन्धन.
The great majority of the Coalition 's military forces were from the U.S., with Saudi Arabia, the United किंगडम और मिश्र as अग्रणी योगदानकर्ता, in कि अनुक्रम.
Saudi Arabia paid around us $ 36 अरब of the us $ 60 billion cost.
The war was marked by the शुरूआत of सजीव न्यूज on the सामने लाइनों of the लड़ो, साथ the primacy of the U.S. network CNN.
The war has also earned the उपनाम वीडियो खेल युद्ध बाद the रोज़ ब्रॉडकास्ट बिंब on board the U.S. bombers during Operation Desert Storm.
The initial conflict to निकाल इराकी सैनिकों इससे कुवैत began साथ an aerial बमबारी on 17 January 1991.
इस थी followed by a ground assault on 24 February.
This was a decisive victory for the Coalition forces, जो liberated कुवैत और उन्नत into इराकी territory.
The Coalition ceased their advance, and declared a cease-fire 100 घंटों बाद the मैदान अभियान प्रारंभ.
Aerial and ground combat was confined to इराकी, कुवैत, और क्षेत्रों on सऊदी Arabia 's border.
Iraq launched Scud missiles विरूद्ध गठबन्धन सैन्य लक्ष्य in सऊदी Arabia and against Israel.
The nickel, in American usage, is a five- cent सिक्का जारी by the United States Mint.
Composed of 75 % copper and 25 % निकल, the टुकड़ा रै महरूम struck since 1866.
The silver half dime, बराबर to पाँच सेंट, था महरूम जारी since the 1790s.
The American Civil War caused आर्थिक hardship, ड्राइविंग सुनहरा और चांदी इससे परिसंचरण ; in response, in place of low-value coins, the government at first issued paper currency.
In 1865, Congress abolished the five-cent fractional करेंसी नोट बाद स्पेंसर M. क्लार्क, सिर of the करेंसी ब्यूरो ( आज the ब्यूरो of नक्काशी और मुद्रण ), placed his own portrait on the denomination.
बाद कामयाब परिचय of two-cent और three-cent टुकड़े, बगैर precious metal, Congress also authorized a five-cent piece consisting of base metal ; the Mint began striking this version in 1866.
The initial design of the Shield निकल थी struck जबतक 1883, तब replaced by the स्वतंत्रता Head nickel.
The Buffalo nickel was introduced in 1913 as part of a drive to बढ़ाएँ the सौंदर्य of अमरीकी coinage ; in 1938, the Jefferson nickel followed.
In 2004 and 2005, खास डिजाइन in सम्मान of the bicentennial of the Lewis and Clark Expedition were issued.
In 2006, the Mint reverted to using Jefferson nickel designer Felix Schlag 's original reverse ( or `` tails '' पक्ष ), हालांकि a नई obverse, by जेमी franki, थी substituted.
As of 2013, it costs more than eleven cents to produce a निकल ; the मिंट is exploring the सम्भावना of reducing लागत by using less expensive metals.
a पोस्टर साथ पुष्प or क्लस्टर of पुष्प produced by twelve species of flowering plants from different families
A flower, sometimes known as a bloom or खिलना, is the reproductive ढांचा मिला in flowering पौधे ( पौधे of the division Magnoliophyta, also called angiosperms ).
The biological function of a flower is to effect reproduction, usually by providing a यांत्रिकी लिये the संघ of शुक्राणु साथ eggs.
पुष्प may सुकर outcrossing ( संलयन of शुक्राणु और अंडे from different individuals in a population ) or allow selfing ( fusion of sperm and egg from the same flower ).
Some flowers produce diaspores बगैर fertilization ( parthenocarpy ).
Flowers contain sporangia and are the साईट जहाँ gametophytes develop.
Flowers give वृद्धि to फल और seeds.
Many flowers have evolved to be आकर्षक to पशु, so as to cause them to be vectors for the transfer of pollen.
In addition to facilitating the reproduction of flowering plants, flowers have long महरूम admired और प्रयुक्त by इंसानो to beautify उनके पर्यावरण, और भी as वस्तुएँ of रोमांस, ritual, religion, medicine and as a source of food.
The McDonnell डगलस ( अभी बोइंग ) f-15 त्रिभुज is a twin-engine, all-weather tactical fighter designed by McDonnell Douglas to gain and maintain air superiority in aerial combat.
It is considered among the सबसे कामयाब आधुनिक सेनानी, साथ over 100 aerial combat victories with no losses in dogfights.
following समीक्षाएँ of प्रस्ताव, the संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स चयनित mcdonnell Douglas ' design in 1967 to meet the service 's need for a dedicated air superiority fighter.
The त्रिभुज पहला उड़ाया in जुलाई 1972, and entered service in 1976.
Since the 1970s, the Eagle has been exported to इसराईल, जापानी, सऊदी अरब, और अन्य nations.
The F-15 was originally envisioned as a pure एयर बड़प्पन aircraft.
Its design included a द्वितीयक ground-attack काबिलियत कि थी largely unused.
The design proved flexible enough that an all-weather strike derivative, the F-15E Strike Eagle, was बाद विकसित, और डाला service in 1989.
The f-15 त्रिभुज is अपेक्षित to be in सेवा with the U.S. Air Force past 2025.
Mimio is a brand name of a लकीर of प्रौद्योगिकी उत्पाद aimed at the शिक्षा मार्केट.
The primary उत्पाद हैं केन्द्रित around कंप्यूटर whiteboard interactive teaching devices.
MimioCapture डिवाइस भी allow उपयोक्ता to कैप्चर सब of the ink strokes that are written on the whiteboard.
When used in conjunction with a video projector it turns the ordinary whiteboard सतह into a fully इंटरैक्टिव whiteboard.
The product line was originally designed by आभासी स्याही.
On October 4, 2006 Newell Rubbermaid acquired the mimio इंटरैक्टिव whiteboard ( iwb ) उत्पाद लकीर.
rahab of Jericho
Rahab, ( ; ; ) was, according to the किताब of जोशुआ, a स्त्री जो जिया in जेरिको in the promised जमीन और assisted the Israelites in capturing the city.
Nearly all अंग्रेज़ी अनुवाद of जोशुआ describe her as a harlot or prostitute.
The Organization of American States ( Spanish : Organización de los Estados Americanos, Portuguese : Organização dos estados americanos, फ्रेंच : संगठन देस états américains ), or the oas, is a क्षेत्रीय अंतरराष्ट्रीय organization.
The OAS was founded on 30 April 1948, and has इसके मुख्यालय in वॉशिंगटन, d.C., United States.
Its members are the 35 स्वतंत्र राज्य of the Americas.
चूंकि 26 may 2005, the सचिव सामान्य of OAS has been José Miguel Insulza.
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : cristoforo कोलोन ; स्पेनी : cristóbal colón ; पुर्तगाली : cristóvão कोलोन ; पहले 31 अक्तूबर 145120 May 1506 ) was an Italian explorer, navigator, and colonizer, born in the Republic of Genoa, in what is today northwestern Italy.
Under the auspices of the कैथोलिक monarchs of स्पेन, he समाप्त चार voyages across the Atlantic Ocean that led to general European awareness of the American continents.
Those voyages, और उसके प्रयत्न to स्थापित स्थाई settlements on the island of Hispaniola, initiated the Spanish colonization of the New World.
In the context of emerging western imperialism and economic competition between यूरोपीय kingdoms seeking माल through the स्थापना of व्यापार रूट और colonies, कोलंबस 's सट्टे प्रस्ताव, to पहुँचें the ईस्ट इंडीज by sailing westward, eventually received the support of the Spanish crown, which saw in it a promise, however remote, of gaining the upper hand over rival powers in the contest for the lucrative spice trade with Asia.
During his first voyage in 1492, बजाय of reaching Japan as he had intended, Columbus landed in the Bahamas archipelago, at a locale he named San Salvador.
over the कोर्स of तीन अधिक voyages, कोलंबस visited the वृहद और Lesser Antilles, as well as the Caribbean coast of Venezuela and Central America, claiming them for the Spanish Empire.
Though Columbus was not the first European explorer to reach the Americas ( having been preceded by the Norse expedition led by Leif Ericson in the 11th century ), Columbus 's voyages led to the पहला स्थायी यूरोपीय सम्पर्क साथ the americas, inaugurating a काल of European exploration, conquest, and colonization that lasted for several centuries.
They had, इसलिए, an विशाल प्रभाव in the ऐतिहासिक development of the modern Western world.
Columbus खुद देखी उसके accomplishments primarily in the लाइट of the spreading of the Christian religion.
Never admitting that he था पहुँचे a महाद्वीप previously अनजान to europeans, बल्कि than the ईस्ट इंडीज he था नियत आउट for, Columbus called the inhabitants of the lands he visited indios ( Spanish for `` Indians `` ).
Columbus 's strained relationship with the Spanish crown and its appointed colonial administrators in America led to उसके गिरफ़्तार और dismissal as राज्यपाल of the settlements on the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला in 1500, और later to protracted litigation over the benefits which Columbus and his heirs claimed were owed to them by the crown.
Bred in Germany, the boxer is a नस्ल of stocky, medium-sized, short-haired dogs.
The coat is smooth and tight-fitting ; colors are fawn or brindled, with or बगैर श्वेत markings, जिससे may कवर the संपूर्ण देह.
Boxers are brachycephalic ( they have broad, short skulls ), और have a वर्गाकार muzzle, mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ), बहुत दमदार जबड़े, and a powerful bite ideal for hanging on to large prey.
The Boxer was bred from the Old English बुल और the अभी विलुप्त bullenbeisser, and is part of the Molosser group.
Boxers were first exhibited in a श्वान दिखाएँ लिये st. bernards in म्यूनिख in 1895, the पहला Boxer club being founded the next year.
Based on 2012 American Kennel क्लबों आंकडे, मुक्केबाज आयोजित स्थिर as the सातवाँ सबसे popular breed of dog in the United States for the third consecutive year.
Serial ATA ( SATA ) is a computer bus interface that connects मेजबान बस adapters to द्रव्यमान भंडार डिवाइस ऐसे as मुश्किल डिस्क drives and optical drives.
Serial ATA replaces the older AT Attachment standard ( ATA ; later referred to as Parallel ATA or PATA ), offering several advantages over the पुरानी इंटरफ़ेस : घटाया केबल आकार और लागत ( सात conductors बजाय of 40 ), देशी hot swapping, तेज़ आंकड़ा ट्रांसफ़र through उच्चतर signalling दरों, और अधिक efficient transfer through an ( optional ) I/O queuing protocol.
SATA host adapters and devices communicate via a high-speed सीरियल केबल over दो pairs of conductors.
In कंट्रास्ट, समानांतर ata ( the redesignation लिये the विरासत ata विशेषताएँ ) प्रयुक्त a 16-bit wide data bus with many additional support and control signals, all operating at much lower frequency.
To ensure backward compatibility with legacy ATA software और अनुप्रयोग, sata उपयोग the वही मौलिक ATA and ATAPI command-set as legacy ATA devices.
SATA has replaced parallel ATA in consumer desktop and laptop computers, और रै largely replaced pata in नई अंतःस्थापित अनुप्रयोग.
SATA 's मार्केट share in the डेस्कटॉप pc मार्केट was 99 % in 2008.
PATA remains widely used in औद्योगिक और अंतःस्थापित अनुप्रयोग कि उपयोग compactflash भंडार, even though the new CFast standard is based on SATA.
Serial ATA industry compatibility specifications originate इससे the सीरियल ata अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन ( उर्फ.
sata-io, serialata.org ).
The SATA-IO group collaboratively creates, समीक्षाएँ, ratifies, और publishes the interoperability विशेषताएँ, the test cases, and plug-fests.
As with many other industry compatibility standards, the SATA सामग्री स्वामित्व is transferred to अन्य उद्योग लाशें : primarily the incits t13 उपसमिति ata, the incits t10 उपसमिति ( scsi ) ; a subgroup of T10 responsible for Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ).
The पूरा specification इससे SATA-IO.
The remainder of this आलेख होगा कोशिश to उपयोग the शब्दावली and specifications of SATA-IO.
The इतिहास of the अंतरजाल began साथ the विकास of electronic computers in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over the arpanet इससे कंप्यूटर विज्ञान प्राध्यापक लियोनार्ड kleinrock 's प्रयोगशाला at विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, लॉस एंजिल्स ( ucla ), बाद the दूसरी टुकड़ा of संजाल equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ).
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET, Mark I at NPL in the UK, cyclades, मेरिट संजाल, tymnet, और telenet, यहूद विकसित in the लेट 1960s और जल्दी 1970s using a किस्में of प्रोटोकॉल.
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking, in जिससे अनेक पृथक संजाल could be joined साथ into a network of networks.
In 1982, the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized, and नतीजतन, the अवधारणा of a world-wide संजाल of interconnected tcp/ip networks, called the Internet, was introduced.
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science Network ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to महासंगणक साइट in the संयुक्त राज्य इससे शोध और शिक्षा संगठन.
Commercial अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps ) began to emerge in the लेट 1980s and early 1990s.
The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned, निकालना the पिछला प्रतिबंध on the उपयोग of the अंतरजाल to carry वाणिज्यिक ट्रैफ़िक.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce, including the rise of near-instant communication by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मेल, तत्काल messaging, आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) `` फोन काल्स '', two-way इंटरैक्टिव वीडियो काल्स, और the संसार Wide Web with its discussion forums, blogs, social networking, and online shopping sites.
The research and education community continues to develop और उपयोग उन्नत संजाल ऐसे as nsf 's बहुत ऊँची गति रीढ़ संजाल सेवा ( vBNS ), Internet2, and National LambdaRail.
Increasing amounts of आंकड़ा हैं transmitted at उच्चतर और उच्चतर speeds over रेशा ऑप्टिक संजाल ऑपरेटिंग at 1-Gbit/s, 10-Gbit/s, or more.
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way telecommunications networks in the साल 1993, already 51 % by 2000, और अधिक than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007.
Today the अंतरजाल continues to grow, चलित by कभी वृहद amounts of ऑनलाइन सूचना, कॉमर्स, entertainment, and social networking.
The Gift is the second एल्बम by स्कॉटिश सिंगर सुसान Boyle, which was released on 8 November 2010.
Boyle hinted that the album has a 1960s महसूस `` क्युकी कि was [ her ] era ''.
on 30 November 2011, the एल्बम प्राप्त a नामांकन in 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार for Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album.
`` This is बस to कह '' ( 1934 ) is a प्रसिद्ध imagist कविता by William Carlos Williams.
Professor Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore is a major अक्षर और समर्थक of J. K. रोलिंग 's हैरी कुम्हार श्रेणी.
For most of the series, he is the headmaster of the wizarding स्कूल हॉग्वार्ट्स.
As part of his backstory, it is revealed that he is the founder and leader of the Order of the Phoenix, an organisation समर्पित to लड़ the प्रमुख विपक्षी of the श्रेणी, रब voldemort.
डम्बल्डोर is portrayed by रिचर्ड हैरिस in the फिल्मी adaptions of हैरी कुम्हार और the Philosopher 's Stone and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.
After Harris ' मौत, माइकल gambon portrayed डम्बल्डोर for all of the remaining films.
Rowling stated she chose the name Dumbledore, which is an Early Modern English word for `` bumblebee ``, because of Dumbledore 's love of music : she imagined him चलना around `` humming to खुद a लॉट ''.
Calcitonin ( also known as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino एसिड रैखिक polypeptide हार्मोन कि is उत्पादित in इंसानो primarily by the parafollicular cells ( also known as C-cells ) of the thyroid, and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial body.
It acts to reduce रक्त कैल्सियम ( ca2+ ), opposing the effects of parathyroid hormone ( PTH ).
calcitonin रै महरूम मिला in fish, reptiles, birds, and mammals.
Its importance in humans has not been as well established as इसके महत्व in अन्य पशु, as इसके फलन is प्रायः नहीं significant in the regulation of normal calcium homeostasis.
It belongs to calcitonin-like प्रोटीन परिवार.
A mousepad साथ a padded wrist rest.
A mousepad ( US ) or mouse mat ( uk ) is a सतह लिये रखकर और चलती a कंप्यूटर mouse.
A mousepad enhances the usability of the mouse compared to using a mouse सीधे on a तालिका by providing a सतह to allow the ट्रैकिंग led or बॉल ( in पूर्व मॉडल ) to माप गति accurately और without jitter.
Some mousepads बढ़ाएँ ergonomics by providing a padded कलाई rest.
The stadium seen इससे ऊपर in 1980
दिसम्बर 29, 2002 implosion
The riverfront स्टेडियम साईट in जून, 2006.
This photo was taken from the western concourse of ग्रेट अमरीकी बॉल पार्क.
A small portion of the Riverfront Stadium साईट is अभी occupied by the लाल ' हॉल of कीर्ति और संग्रहालय और प्रमुख गली, जिससे थी विस्तारित when the new park was built.
The Cincinnati Bengals ' Paul Brown स्टेडियम is in the अलहदा.
riverfront स्टेडियम ( 1970–1995 ), बाद ज्ञात as cinergy फ़ील्ड ( 1996–2002 ), थी the घर of the सिनसिनाटी लाल नेशनल League baseball team and the Cincinnati Bengals National Football League team.
Located on the Ohio River in downtown सिनसिनाटी, the स्टेडियम थी बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the घर of `` the बिग रेड यंत्र ``, as the Reds were often called in the 1970s.
निर्माण began on फ़रवरी 1, 1968, और थी समाप्त at a cost of less than $ 50 million.
On June 30, 1970, the Reds hosted the Atlanta Braves in their grand opening, with Hank आरोन hitting the पहला कभी घर चलाएं at riverfront.
Two weeks later on July 14, 1970, Riverfront hosted the 1970 प्रमुख लीग Baseball All-Star Game.
This game is best remembered for the often-replayed टक्कर at घर थाली between लाल स्टार पीट रोज़ और catcher Ray Fosse of the Cleveland Indians.
In September 1996, riverfront स्टेडियम थी renamed `` cinergy फ़ील्ड '' in a प्रायोजन deal with Greater Cincinnati 's energy company, Cinergy Corporation.
In 2001, to make रूम लिये ग्रेट अमरीकी बॉल पार्क, the seating capacity at Cinergy Field was reduced to 39,000.
There was a विशाल वॉल in बीच फ़ील्ड दृश्य बाद the renovations, to serve as the batter 's eye.
The stadium was demolished by implosion on December 29, 2002.
Nexen Tire is a tire manufacturer, headquartered in yangsan, दक्षिण gyeongsang प्रांत, और सियोल, both in South Korea.
Its major domestic प्रतिस्पर्धी हैं hankook टायर and Kumho Tires.
The company 's name is reflected in the कम्पनी स्लोगन, `` अगला सदी टायर. ''
The silent majority is an unspecified large majority of लोगों in a देश or समूह जो do नहीं एक्स्प्रेस their opinions publicly.
The term was popularized ( though not first used ) by U.S. President Richard Nixon in a November 3, 1969, speech in जिससे he कहा, `` और so tonight—to तुम, the ग्रेट मूक बहुमत of my fellow americans—i पूछो लिये अपना support. ''
In this usage it referred to those Americans who did not join in the विशाल demonstrations विरूद्ध the वियतनाम युद्ध at the समय, जो किया नहीं जुड़ें in the counterculture, और जो किया नहीं participate in public discourse.
Nixon along with many अन्य देखी इस समूह of मध्य अमेरिकी as होने निष्प्रभ in the मीडिया by the more vocal minority.
The phrase was used in the 19th century as a euphemism referring to all the people जो have died, और अन्य have प्रयुक्त it पहले और बाद निक्सन to refer to समूह of मतदाता in विभिन्न nations of the world.
Sam, a rhesus मंकी, उड़ाया to an ऊँचाई of 88 km in 1959.
( नासा )
Before humans went into space, several animals were launched into space, सहित numerous बंदरों, so कि वैज्ञानिकों could investigate the biological effects of space travel.
The United States launched flights containing primate कार्गो primarily between 1948-1961 साथ एक उड़ान in 1969 and one in 1985.
France शुभारम्भ दो monkey-carrying flights in 1967.
The Soviet संघ और रूस शुभारम्भ बंदरों between 1983 and 1996.
Most monkeys were anesthetized पहले lift-off.
overall thirty-two बंदरों उड़ाया in the space program ; none flew more than once.
Numerous back-up monkeys भी गई through the कार्यक्रम but never flew.
Monkeys from several प्रजाति यहूद प्रयुक्त, सहित rhesus बंदरों, cynomolgus बंदरों, गिलहरी बंदरों, and pig-tailed macaques.
कुछ chimpanzees ( जिससे हैं apes बल्कि than monkeys ) were also used.
RAID ( redundant array of independent disks, originally redundant array of inexpensive डिस्क ) is a भंडार प्रौद्योगिकी कि combines अनेक डिस्क ड्राइव components into a logical unit.
Data is distributed across the drives in one of several ways called `` RAID levels '', depending on the स्तर of अतिरेक और प्रदर्शन जरूरी.
The term `` RAID '' was पहला पारिभाषित by दाउद पैटरसन, garth A. गिब्सन, और रैंडी katz at the विश्वविद्यालयों of California, Berkeley in 1987.
Marketers representing उद्योग रेड निर्माताओं बाद attempted to reinvent the term to describe a redundant array of independent disks as a means of disassociating a low-cost expectation from RAID technology.
RAID is now used as an umbrella term for computer data storage schemes that can divide और replicate आंकड़ा among अनेक शारीरिक ड्राइव : रेड is an उदाहरण of भंडार virtualization and the array can be accessed by the operating system as one single drive.
The अलग योजनाएं or architectures हैं नामित by the शब्द रेड followed by a number ( e.g. RAID 0, RAID 1 ).
Each scheme provides a different balance between the कुंजी लक्ष्य : विश्वसनीयता और उपलब्धता, performance and capacity.
RAID levels वृहद than रेड 0 provide सुरक्षा विरूद्ध unrecoverable ( sector ) read errors, as well as whole disk failure.
A lymphocyte is a type of white रक्त कोशिका in the vertebrate immune system.
अंतर्गत the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, lymphocytes can be divided into large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes शामिल प्राकृतिक killer cells ( NK cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of t कोशिकाएं and B cells.
The Big Lebowski is a 1998 dark comedy फिल्मी लिखा and directed by Joel and Ethan Coen.
Jeff Bridges stars as Jeff lebowski, an बेरोजगार लॉस एंजिल्स slacker और avid बॉलर, nicknamed `` The Dude. ''
After a case of mistaken identity, the यार is introduced to a करोड़पति also named Jeffrey Lebowski.
When the millionaire Lebowski 's trophy wife is later kidnapped, he commissions the यार to उद्धार the फिरौती to सुरक्षित उसके release.
The plan goes awry जब the यार 's dost वाल्टर Sobchak ( John Goodman ) schemes to keep the full ransom.
Steve Buscemi, Philip Seymour Hoffman, David huddleston, julianne मूर, tara reid, और जॉन turturro भी स्टार in the फिल्मी, which is narrated by a cowboy known only as `` The Stranger '', played by Sam Elliott.
The फिल्मी is loosely प्रेरित by the कार्य of Raymond Chandler.
Joel कोएन stated : `` we चाही to do a चांडलर दयालु of स्टोरी – कैसा it चालें episodically, and deals with the characters trying to unravel a mystery, as well as having a hopelessly complex plot that 's ultimately unimportant. ''
The original score थी रचित by कार्टर burwell, a longtime collaborator of the Coen Brothers.
The Big Lebowski was a निराशा at the u.S. बक्सा दफ्तर और प्राप्त मिश्रित reviews at the time of its release.
Reviews have trended towards the धनात्मक over समय, और the फिल्मी रै become a cult पसंदीदा, विख्यात लिये इसके idiosyncratic characters, dream sequences, unconventional dialogue, and eclectic soundtrack.
Severus Snape is a fictional character in the हैरी कुम्हार किताब श्रेणी लिखा by j.K. रोलिंग.
In the first novel of the श्रेणी, he is शत्रु toward हैरी और is निर्मित up to be the primary antagonist until the final chapters.
As the series progresses, snape 's अक्षर becomes अधिक परतदार and complex.
Rowling does not fully reveal the details of his true loyalties जबतक the समाप्त of the फाइनल किताब, हैरी कुम्हार और the deathly hallows.
Over the course of the series, Snape 's portrayal evolves from that of a malicious and partisan टीचर to कि of a pivotal अक्षर of considerable जटिलता और moral ambiguity.
Snape primarily teaches Potions at Hogwarts, though in the sixth novel he teaches Defence Against the Dark कला, a स्थिति जिससे he थी ज्ञात to have desired throughout the श्रेणी.
He ultimately becomes हेडमास्टर of Hogwarts in the final novel.
Rowling has described उसे as `` a तोहफा of a अक्षर ''.
Grits refers to a ground-corn food of देशी अमरीकी उत्पत्ति, कि is आम in the Southern United States and mainly eaten at breakfast.
Modern grits हैं commonly बना of alkali-treated corn known as hominy.
Grits are समान to अन्य मोटा maize-based porridges इससे around the संसार such as polenta or the thinner farina.
`` तत्काल grits '' have महरूम processed to speed cooking.
The word `` grits '' derives from the Old अंग्रेज़ी शब्द `` grytt, '' अर्थ coarse भोजन.
This word originally referred to गेहूं और अन्य porridges अभी ज्ञात as groats in parts of the U.K..
Maize, unknown in Europe in the Middle Ages, is a food derived from मकई ( a नई संसार संयंत्र ) और `` मकई '' था महरूम प्रयुक्त to describe गेहूं उत्पाद in अनेक European regions.
`` Grits '' may be either एकवचन or बहुवचन ; historically, in the अमरीकी दक्षिण the शब्द थी invariably singular notwithstanding its plural form ( cf. such food names as `` spaghetti '' or `` linguine '', likewise plural in form, but singular in use ).
Sometimes, grits are called sofkee or sofkey ( इससे a देशी अमरीकी muskogee शब्द ).
In molecular biology, human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone उत्पादित by the निषेचित अंडा बाद धारणा.
Later during pregnancy it is made by the विकासशील placenta, और later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors produce this हार्मोन ; इसलिए, elevated स्तर measured जब the patient is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
However, it is not known whether इस उत्पादन is a contributing कारण or an effect of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary एनॉलॉग of hcg, ज्ञात as luteinizing हार्मोन ( lh ), is उत्पादित in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages.
, the FDA has निषिद्ध the बिक्री of `` होम्योपैथिक '' और over the काउंटर hCG diet products and declared them fraudulent and illegal.
The Las Vegas Strip संसार of coca-cola संग्रहालय in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft पेय बेची in स्टोर्स, रेस्तरां, और वेंडिंग machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, जॉर्जिया, और is प्रायः referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944 ).
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John pemberton, coca-cola थी खरीदा आउट by बिजनेसमैन asa griggs candler, जिनकी विपणन tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, जिससे is तब बेची to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, who hold territorially विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी, उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers तब बेचें, वितरित और merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines.
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका और western Europe.
the coca-cola कम्पनी भी बिकता concentrate लिये soda fountains to major restaurants and food service distributors.
The Coca-Cola कम्पनी रै, on अवसर, introduced अन्य कोला पेय under the Coke brand name.
The most आम of ये is आहार कोक, साथ अन्य सहित caffeine-free coca-cola, आहार Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on interbrand 's बेहतरीन वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011, Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand.
An ombudsman is an official, usually appointed by the सरकारी or by पार्लियामेंट लकिन साथ a significant उपाधि of स्वतंत्रता, जो is चार्ज साथ representing the interests of the public by investigating and addressing complaints of maladministration or violation of rights.
In कुछ देशों an इंस्पेक्टर सामान्य, नागरिक एडवोकेट or अन्य आधिकारिक may have कर्तव्य similar to those of a national ombudsman, and may also be appointed by the legislature.
Below the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a state, लोकल or नगरपालिका सरकारी, और unofficial ombudsmen may be नियुक्त by, or भी कार्य लिये, a निगम ऐसे as a utility supplier or a newspaper, for an NGO, or for a professional regulatory body.
Whether appointed by the legislature, the executive, or an organization ( or, less frequently, elected by the constituency कि he or वो serves ), the ठेठ कर्तव्य of an ombudsman हैं to investigate शिकायत और attempt to निराकरण उन्हें, प्रायः through recommendations ( binding or not ) or mediation.
Ombudsmen sometimes भी उद्देश्य to पहचानो प्रणालीगत मुद्दे अग्रणी to poor service or breaches of people 's rights.
At the national level, most ombudsmen have a चौड़ी जनादेश to सौदे साथ the संपूर्ण पब्लिक sector, and sometimes also elements of the private sector ( for example, contracted service providers ).
In some मामले, वहीँ is a अधिक प्रतिबंधित जनादेश, for example with particular sectors of society.
More recent developments have included the creation of specialised children 's ombudsman और सूचना Commissioner agencies.
In some jurisdictions an ombudsman charged with the handling of concerns about national सरकारी is अधिक formally referred to as the `` संसदीय कमिश्नर '' ( e.g. the United Kingdom Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration, and the Western Australian state Ombudsman ).
In many देशों जहाँ the ombudsman 's remit extends परे dealing साथ कथित maladministration to promoting and protecting human rights, the ombudsman is recognised as the national human rights institution.
The post of ombudsman had by the end of the 20th century been instituted by सबसे सरकारें और by कुछ intergovernmental संगठन ऐसे as the European Union.
Making a complaint to an ombudsman is प्रायः फ़्री of चार्ज.
Sign at Georgetown विश्वविद्यालयों वॉशिंगटन DC
चिह्न in बांजुल, The Gambia
Autumn in New इंग्लैण्ड, watercolor, मौरिस Prendergast.
Ca. 1910–1913
Fall foliage in the town of स्टो, वर्मांट
New England is a प्रदेश in the northeastern कोने of the संयुक्त राज्य consisting of the छह राज्य of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut.
New England is bordered by New यॉर्क राज्य to the दक्षिणपश्चिम, क्यूबेक to the उत्तरपश्चिम, और नई ब्रंसविक and the Atlantic Ocean to the east.
In one of the earliest English settlements in उत्तर अमेरिका, तीर्थयात्रियों इससे इंग्लैण्ड पहला settled in New England in 1620, to form Plymouth Colony.
Ten सालो बाद, the puritans settled उत्तर of plymouth उपनिवेश in Boston, thus forming Massachusetts Bay Colony.
Over the next 130 years, New England लड़ा in चार फ्रेंच और भारतीय युद्धों, जबतक the अंग्रेजों पराजित the फ्रेंच और उनके देशी allies in North America.
In the late 18th century, the New England colonies initiated the प्रतिरोध to the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट 's प्रयत्न to impose new taxes without the consent of the colonists.
The Boston Tea Party was a protest to which Great Britain responded with a श्रेणी of दंडात्मक कानून stripping मैसाचुसेट्स of self-government, जिससे यहूद termed the `` असहनीय Acts `` by the colonists.
The confrontation led to open warfare in 1775, the expulsion of the अंग्रेजों अधिकारियों इससे नई इंग्लैण्ड in वसन्त 1776, और the Declaration of Independence in July 1776.
Some of the first movements of American literature, philosophy, and शिक्षा originated in नई इंग्लैण्ड.
The region played a prominent role in the movement to abolish गुलामी, और थी the पहला प्रदेश of the संयुक्त राज्य to be रूपांतरित by the औद्योगिक Revolution.
Today, New इंग्लैण्ड is a प्रमुख संसार बीच of शिक्षा, ऊँची प्रौद्योगिकी, insurance, and medicine.
Boston is its cultural, financial, शैक्षणिक, चिकित्सा और परिवहन center.
Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated municipalities ज्ञात as नई इंग्लैण्ड कस्बों, जिससे हैं प्रायः governed by town meeting.
The only unincorporated territory in नई इंग्लैण्ड exists in the sparse, उत्तरी regions of Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine.
Since 1970, voters have more often supported liberal candidates at the राज्य और संघीय स्तर than those of कोई अन्य प्रदेश in the संयुक्त States.
New England is the तभी एक of the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's नौ क्षेत्रीय विभाजन whose name does not derive from its geography, and it is the only multi-state region with clear, consistent boundaries.
It maintains a strong sense of cultural identity set apart from the बाकी of the देश, हालांकि the शर्तें of इस पहचान हैं प्रायः लडे, combining puritanism साथ उदारतावाद, कृषिक जीवन with industry, and isolation with immigration.
आपात !
is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि combines the medical drama and action-adventure genres.
It was उत्पादित by चिह्नित सात सीमित और वितरित by Universal Studios.
It debuted as a midseason बदलना on जनवरी 15, 1972, on एनबीसी, replacing the two short-lived series The Partners and The Good Life, and ran until September 3, 1977, with six additional two-hour television films during the following two years.
आपात !
was created and produced by Jack Webb and Robert A. Cinader, both of whom यहूद भी जिम्मेदार लिये the पुलिस dramas adam-12 और Dragnet.
The Eastern Time Zone ( ET ) encompasses 17 u.S. राज्य in the पूर्वी भाग of the संलग्न संयुक्त राज्य, parts of Canada and three countries in South America.
Places that use पूर्वी मानक समय ( est ) जब observing मानक समय ( autumn/winter ) हैं 5 घंटों पीछे Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
Eastern Daylight Time ( EDT ), when observing daylight छायांकन समय ( spring/summer ) is 4 घंटों पीछे Coordinated Universal Time ( ).
In the उत्तरी भाग of the समय मण्डल, दौरान the दूसरी संडे in कूच, at 2:00 a.m. EST, clocks are advanced to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a one hour `` gap. ''
During the first Sunday in नवम्बर, at 2:00 a.m. edt, घड़ियाँ हैं स्थानांतरित वापस to 1:00 a.m. est, यूँ `` duplicating '' one hour.
Southern parts of the मण्डल ( पनामा और the caribbean ) do not observe daylight saving.
Standard रूप of the आवधिक table.
The colors represent different श्रेणी of तत्व समझाया below.
The periodic table is a tabular display of the chemical elements, organized on the आधार of उनके परमाणु संख्याएँ, इलेक्ट्रॉन configurations, और recurring chemical properties.
Elements are presented in अनुक्रम of increasing परमाणु क्रमांक ( number of protons ).
The standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or प्रमुख देह of तत्व, positioned ऊपर a छोटी दोगुना row of elements.
The table can also be deconstructed into चार आयताकार ब्लॉक : the s-block to the बाएँ, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, and the f-block below that.
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s-, d-, and p-blocks हैं पुकारा समूह, साथ कुछ of ये having names ऐसे as the हैलोजन्स or the noble gases.
Since, by definition, a periodic तालिका incorporates पुनरावर्ती रुझान, कोई ऐसे तालिका can be प्रयुक्त to derive संबंध between the गुण of the elements and predict the properties of new, yet to be discovered or synthesized, elements.
As a result, a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some other variant—provides a useful फ्रेमवर्क लिये analyzing रासायनिक बर्ताव, और ऐसे टेबल हैं widely प्रयुक्त in रसायन and other sciences.
Although precursors exist, dmitri mendeleev is generally credited साथ the प्रकाशन, in 1869, of the first widely recognized periodic table.
He developed his तालिका to illustrate आवधिक रुझान in the properties of the then-known elements.
Mendeleev also predicted some properties of then-unknown तत्व कि होता be अपेक्षित to भरण गैप in इस तालिका.
Most of his पूर्वानुमान यहूद proved सही जब the elements in question were subsequently discovered.
mendeleev 's आवधिक तालिका रै चूंकि महरूम विस्तारित और refined with the discovery or synthesis of further new elements and the development of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior.
All elements from परमाणु संख्याएँ 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have महरूम discovered or synthesized.
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have महरूम मिला to मौजूद naturally, हालांकि कुछ हैं मिला तभी in ट्रेस amounts और यहूद initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories.
the तत्व बाद 98 have तभी महरूम synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued, with the question of how the periodic table may need to be परिवर्धित to accommodate कोई ऐसे परिवर्धन होने a पदार्थ of जारी बहस.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring तत्व have भी महरूम उत्पादित in laboratories.
Minecraft is a sandbox indie game originally created by Swedish programmer Markus `` पायदान '' persson और बाद विकसित और प्रकाशित by Mojang.
It was publicly released for the PC on May 17, 2009, as a developmental alpha version and, after क्रमिक अद्यतन, थी प्रकाशित as a पूरा रिलीज संस्करण on नवम्बर 18, 2011.
A version for Android was released a month earlier on अक्तूबर 7, और an आईओएस संस्करण थी released on नवम्बर 17, 2011.
On May 9, 2012, the खेल थी released on एक्सबॉक्स 360 as an Xbox Live Arcade game, co-developed by 4J Studios.
सब संस्करण of minecraft receive periodic updates.
The creative and building aspects of Minecraft allow players to build constructions out of textured घन in a 3d procedurally उत्पन्न संसार.
Other क्रियाएँ in the खेल शामिल खोजी, महफ़िल resources, crafting and combat.
Gameplay in its commercial release has two principal modes : survival, which requires players to acquire संसाधन और maintain उनके स्वास्थ्य और भूख ; और रचनात्मक, जहाँ खिलाड़ी have an असीमित सप्लाई of संसाधन, the क्षमता to मक्खी, and no health or hunger.
A third gameplay mode named hardcore is the same as survival, differing only in difficulty ; it is set to hardest सेटिंग और respawning is निष्क्रिय, forcing खिलाड़ी to हटाएँ उनके worlds upon death.
Minecraft received five awards from the 2011 Game Developers Conference : it was awarded the Innovation Award, Best Downloadable Game Award, and the Best Debut Game Award from the Game डेवलपर चुनाव पुरस्कार ; और the दर्शक पुरस्कार, as खूब as the seumas McNally Grand Prize, from the Independent Games Festival in 2011.
In 2012, minecraft थी awarded a सुनहरी Joystick Award in the category Best Downloadable Game.
As of April 8, 2013, the खेल रै बेची over 10 लाख नक़ल on PC and as of January 22, 2013, over 20 million copies across all platforms.
The Dark नाईट is a 2008 british-american सुपरहीरो फिल्मी निर्देशित, produced, and co-written by Christopher Nolan.
Based on the DC Comics अक्षर बैटमैन, the फिल्मी is the दूसरी भाग of नोलन 's बैटमैन फिल्मी series and a sequel to 2005 's Batman Begins.
Christian Bale reprises the lead role of Bruce wayne/batman, साथ a returning डाल of माइकल caine as अल्फ्रेड pennyworth, Gary Oldman as James Gordon and Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox.
The film introduces the character of Harvey Dent ( Aaron Eckhart ), Gotham 's newly निर्वाचित ज़िला attorney और the consort of ब्रूस वेन 's बाल्यकाल dost रेचल dawes ( मैगी जिलएनहॉल ), जो joins बैटमैन और the पुलिस in combating the new rising threat of a criminal mastermind calling himself `` The Joker `` ( Heath Ledger ).
Nolan 's inspiration for the फिल्मी थी the जोकर 's कॉमिक किताब डेब्यू in 1940, the 1988 graphic novel, and the 1996 series, which retold Two-Face 's origin.
The nickname `` the Dark Knight '' was first applied to Batman in बैटमैन no. 1 ( 1940 ), in a स्टोरी लिखा by Bill Finger.
The Dark Knight was filmed primarily in Chicago, as well as in several other locations in the संयुक्त राज्य, the संयुक्त किंगडम, और हांग काँग.
Nolan used an IMAX camera to film some sequences, सहित the जोकर 's पहला appearance in the film.
On January 22, 2008, some months after he had completed filming on The Dark Knight and six months before the film 's release, झाड़ लेजर died इससे a विषाक्त संयोजन of नुस्खा दवाएँ, अग्रणी to तीव्र attention from the press and movie-going public.
Warner Bros. had initially created a viral marketing campaign for The Dark Knight, विकासशील promotional वेबसाइटों और trailers highlighting स्क्रीन गोलियाँ of लेजर as the Joker, but after Ledger 's death, the studio refocused its promotional campaign.
The Dark Knight was released on जुलाई 16, 2008 in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, on जुलाई 18, 2008 in उत्तर अमेरिका, and on July 24, 2008 in the United Kingdom.
Considered one of the बेहतरीन films of the 2000s और एक of the बेहतरीन सुपरहीरो films कभी बना, the film received highly positive reviews and set numerous records during its theatrical run.
With over $ 1 billion in revenue worldwide, it is the 14th-highest-grossing फिल्मी of सब समय, unadjusted for inflation.
The film प्राप्त आठ अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations ; it जीती the पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन ध्वनि संपादन और लेजर थी posthumously awarded Best Supporting Actor.
The अंधेरा नाईट उदय, the फाइनल part of the trilogy, was released on July 20, 2012.
The timeline of रेडियो सूचियाँ भीतर the इतिहास of रेडियो, the प्रौद्योगिकी और कार्यक्रम कि produced instruments that use radio waves and activities that people undertook.
बाद, the इतिहास is वर्चस्व by programming and contents, which is closer to general history.
The सिडनी ओपेरा हाउस is a multi-venue performing arts centre in New South Wales, Australia.
It was conceived and largely निर्मित by डैनिश वास्तु jørn utzon, opening in 1973 after a long gestation that began with his competition-winning design in 1957.
Joseph Cahill 's New South Wales सरकारी दिया the go-ahead लिये कार्य to begin in 1958.
The government 's bold decision to चुनें utzon 's डिज़ाइन is प्रायः overshadowed by the scandal that followed.
It is on Bennelong Point in सिडनी harbour, बंद to the सिडनी harbour Bridge.
It sits at the northeastern tip of the Sydney central business district ( the CBD ), घिरी on तीन पहलू by the harbour ( सिडनी कोव और फार्म कोव ) और अंतर्देशीय by the royal botanic Gardens.
Contrary to its name, it घरों अनेक प्रदर्शन venues.
It is among the busiest performing arts centres in the संसार, होस्टिंग over 1,500 प्रदर्शन प्रत्येक साल attended by some 1.2 million people.
It provides a venue for many performing-arts companies, including the four key resident companies Opera Australia, The Australian Ballet, the Sydney Theatre Company and the सिडनी सिंफनी ऑर्केस्ट्रा, और presents a चौड़ी दायरा of प्रोडक्शन्स on इसके अपना खाता.
It is also one of the most popular visitor आकर्षण in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, साथ अधिक than सात लाख लोगों visiting प्रत्येक year, 300,000 of whom take a guided tour.
It is administered by the सिडनी ओपेरा हाउस विश्वास, अंतर्गत the New South Wales Ministry of the Arts.
On 28 June 2007, it थी बना a युनेस्को संसार विरासत Site.
It is one of the 20th century 's most distinctive buildings और एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध performing कला केंद्रों in the world.
A आलेख of देह द्रव्यमान अनुक्रमणिका as a फलन of देह द्रव्यमान and body height is shown above.
The dashed lines represent subdivisions भीतर a major class.
For instance the `` Underweight '' classification is further divided into `` कठोर '', `` मॉडरेट '', और `` mild '' subclasses.
The body mass index ( BMI ), or Quetelet index, is a measure for इंसान देह आकार आधारित on an व्यक्तिगत 's वज़न और height.
It was devised between 1830 और 1850 by the belgian बहुश्रुत adolphe quetelet दौरान the course of developing `` social physics ''.
Body द्रव्यमान अनुक्रमणिका is पारिभाषित as the व्यक्तिगत 's body mass divided by the square of their height.
The formulae universally used in आयुर्विज्ञान उपज a ईकाई of माप of kg/m2.
BMI can also be determined using a BMI chart, which displays BMI as a function of weight ( आड़ा अक्ष ) और ऊँचाई ( लंबवत अक्ष ) using रुपरेखा लाइनों लिये अलग मान of बीएमआई or रंगों लिये अलग BMI categories.
† The factor for UK/US units is more precisely 703.06957964, but कि स्तर of परिशुद्धता is नहीं सार्थक लिये इस गणना.
To work from stone and pounds पहला गुणा the स्टोन by 14 तब add the पाउंड to दे the पूरे द्रव्यमान in pounds ; to work from feet and inches first multiply the feet by 12 then add the inches to give the whole height in inches.
Thomas Paine ( January 29, 1737 ( NS February 9, 1737 ) – जून 8, 1809 ) थी an english-american राजनैतिक activist, author, political theorist and revolutionary.
As the लेखक of दो अत्यधिक influential pamphlets at the प्रारंभ of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति, he प्रेरित the Patriots in 1776 to declare independence from Britain.
His ideas reflected आत्मज्ञान era बयानबाजी of transnational human rights.
He has महरूम पुकारा `` a corsetmaker by व्यापार, a पत्रकार by व्यवसायिक, and a propagandist by inclination. ''
Born in Thetford, England, in the county of Norfolk, Paine emigrated to the British American colonies in 1774 साथ the सहायता of बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन और he arrived in समय to participate in the American Revolution.
His principal contributions were the powerful, widely read pamphlet Common Sense ( 1776 ), the all-time best-selling American book that advocated colonial America 's independence from the Kingdom of Great ब्रिटेन, और the अमरीकी संकट ( 1776–83 ), a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series.
Common Sense was so influential that John Adams said, `` Without the कलम of the लेखक of आम भाव, the तलवार of वॉशिंगटन होता have been raised in vain.”
Paine lived in France for most of the 1790s, becoming deeply शामिल in the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति.
He wrote the अधिकारों of man ( 1791 ), in भाग a रक्षा of the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति against its critics.
His attacks on British writer Edmund Burke led to a विचारण और conviction in absentia in 1792 लिये the अपराधों of seditious libel.
In 1792, despite नहीं होने समर्थ to बोलो फ्रेंच, he थी निर्वाचित to the French National Convention.
The girondists regarded उसे as an ally.
Consequently, the Montagnards, विशेषकर robespierre, regarded उसे as an दुश्मन.
In दिसम्बर 1793, he थी गिरफ्तार और imprisoned in Paris, then released in 1794.
He became notorious because of The Age of Reason ( 1793–94 ), उसके किताब कि अधिवक्ताओं देववाद, promotes कारण और freethinking, and argues against institutionalized religion in general and Christian doctrine in particular.
He also wrote the pamphlet Agrarian इंसाफ ( 1795 ), discussing the origins of प्रॉपर्टी, और introduced the concept of a guaranteed minimum income.
In 1802, he लौटे to अमेरिका जहाँ he died on June 8, 1809.
Only six लोगों attended उसके अंत्येष्टि as he था महरूम ostracized for his ridicule of Christianity.
Clinical trials are sets of tests in medical research and drug development that generate safety and efficacy data ( or more specifically, information about प्रतिकूल ड्रग प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रतिकूल प्रभाव of अन्य उपचार ) लिये स्वास्थ्य interventions ( e.g., drugs, diagnostics, devices, therapy protocols ).
They are conducted only after satisfactory information has been gathered on the विशेषता of the गैर नैदानिक सुरक्षा, और स्वास्थ्य authority/ethics कमेटी स्वीकृति is granted in the country where approval of the drug or device is sought.
previously, अनेक उभरते देशों किया नहीं आवश्यकता लोकल trials for product approvals.
Now, though उभरते countries still accept data from U.S./Europe, they also require some local trials.
Depending on the type of product and the stage of its development, जांचकर्ताओं initially enroll स्वयंसेवक and/or मरीजों into छोटी पायलट अध्ययन, और subsequently conduct larger scale studies in patients that often compare the new product with others already approved for the affliction of interest.
As positive safety and efficacy आंकड़ा हैं gathered, the क्रमांक of patients is typically increased.
Clinical trials can vary in आकार, और can involve a सिंगल शोध एंटिटी in one country or many such entities in multiple countries.
A full series of trials may incur sizable costs, and the burden of paying for all the जरुरी लोगों और सेवाएं is प्रायः borne by the प्रायोजक, जिससे may be a सरकारी organization or a pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device company.
When the diversity of required support roles exceeds the resources of the sponsor, a clinical trial is प्रबंधित by an outsourced संगी, ऐसे as a अनुबंध शोध संगठन or a नैदानिक ट्रायल unit in the academic sector.
The Green Bay Packers are an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित in ग्रीन Bay, Wisconsin.
They are members of the उत्तर प्रभाग of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
ग्रीन खाड़ी is the third-oldest मताधिकार in the एनएफएल, having been organized and playing in 1919.
the पैकर्स हैं the तभी non-profit, community-owned प्रमुख league professional sports team in the United States.
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small town teams '' कि यहूद एकबार आम in the एनएफएल दौरान the 1920s and 1930s.
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun, the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स can ट्रेस उनके lineage to अन्य semi-professional टीमों in Green Bay dating back to 1896.
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली विरूद्ध clubs from around Wisconsin and the Midwest.
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( apfa ) in 1921, the forerunner to कया is ज्ञात आज as the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( NFL ).
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team, its local fan base and media extends into आसपास मिल्वौकी ; the टोली भी निभाई चयनित घर games there between 1933 and 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the NFL ), including nine NFL championships prior to the Super Bowl era और चार सुपर कटोरी victories —in 1967 ( सुपर कटोरी i ), 1968 ( सुपर कटोरी ii ), 1997 ( सुपर कटोरी XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
The Packers have long-standing, bitter rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central ) प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, the शिकागो bears, मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स और the डेट्रॉयट शेर.
The Bears-Packers rivalry is one of the oldest rivalries in NFL इतिहास, डेटिंग वापस to 1921.
Ethanol fuel is ethanol ( ethyl दारू ), the वही प्रकार of दारू मिला in alcoholic beverages.
It is most often used as a motor fuel, मुख्यतः as a biofuel योगात्मक for gasoline.
World ethanol उत्पादन लिये हस्तांतरण ईंधन tripled between 2000 और 2007 इससे 17 अरब to more than 52 billion liters.
From 2007 to 2008, the share of ethanol in global गैसोलीन प्रकार ईंधन उपयोग increased इससे 3.7 % to 5.4 %.
In 2011 worldwide ethanol fuel उत्पादन पहुँचे 22.36 अरब u.S. द्रव गैलन ( bg ) ( 84.6 अरब liters ), साथ the संयुक्त राज्य as the शीर्ष निर्माता साथ 13.9 bg ( 52.6 अरब liters ), accounting for 62.2 % of global production, followed by Brazil with 5.6 bg ( 21.1 billion liters ).
इथेनॉल ईंधन रै a `` गैसोलीन गैलन equivalency `` ( gge ) मान of, जिससे अर्थात् 1.5 gallons of ethanol produce the energy of one gallon of gasoline.
Ethanol fuel is widely used in Brazil and in the United States, और साथ दोनो देशों यहूद जिम्मेदार लिये 87.1 % of the world 's ethanol fuel production in 2011.
Most गाड़ियाँ on the सड़क आज in the u.S. can चलाएं on मिश्रणों of up to 10 % इथेनॉल, and ethanol represented 10 % of the U.S. gasoline fuel supply derived from domestic sources in 2011.
Since 1976 the ब्राज़ीलियाई सरकारी रै बना it अनिवार्य to मिश्रण इथेनॉल with gasoline, and since 2007 the legal blend is around 25 % ethanol and 75 % gasoline ( E25 ).
By December 2011 Brazil had a fleet of 14.8 million flex-fuel automobiles and light trucks और 1.5 लाख flex-fuel मोटरसाइकिल कि regularly उपयोग neat इथेनॉल ईंधन ( ज्ञात as e100 ).
Bioethanol is a रूप of बेदर्दी उर्जा कि can be उत्पादित इससे agricultural feedstocks.
It can be made from very आम फसलों ऐसे as शुगर cane, आलू, manioc and corn.
There has been considerable debate परिचय कैसा उपयोगी bioethanol होगा be in replacing gasoline.
Concerns परिचय इसके उत्पादन और उपयोग सुनाना to increased खाना कीमतें due to the विशाल राशि of arable land required for crops, as well as the energy and pollution balance of the whole cycle of ethanol production, especially from corn.
Recent developments with cellulosic ethanol उत्पादन और व्यावसायीकरण may allay कुछ of ये चिंताएं.
Cellulosic इथेनॉल offers वादा क्युकी cellulose मछली, a प्रमुख and universal component in plant cells walls, can be used to produce ethanol.
according to the अंतरराष्ट्रीय उर्जा एजेंसी, cellulosic इथेनॉल could allow इथेनॉल fuels to play a much bigger role in the future than previously thought.
Saab 9-3 sportcombi biopower.
The second E85 flexifuel मॉडल introduced by Saab in the Swedish market.
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image लिया in 1987, पहले कदम यहूद removed in 1992 और प्लैक बदला इससे cyrillic to लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट )
A plaque commemorating the स्थान of the साराजेवो assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914, Archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, वारिस presumptive to the austro-hungarian सिंहासन, और उसके बीवी, सोफी, duchess of hohenberg, यहूद शॉट मुर्दे in साराजेवो, by Gavrilo Princip, one of a group of six Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić.
The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so वे could be संयुक्त into a वृहद सर्बिया or a यूगोस्लाविया.
The हत्यारे ' motives यहूद सतत साथ the गति that later became known as Young Bosnia.
Serbian सैन्य अधिकारियों stood पीछे the attack.
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian सैन्य प्रज्ञा dragutin dimitrijević, उसके righthand man प्रमुख vojislav tankosić, और masterspy Rade Malobabić.
Major Tankosić armed the हत्यारे साथ बम और pistols और प्रशिक्षित them.
The assassins were given access to the वही clandestine टनल of safe-houses और एजेंटों कि rade malobabić प्रयुक्त लिये the घुसपैठ of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary.
The assassins, the key members of the clandestine tunnel, and the key सर्बियाई सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों जो यहूद स्टिल alive were arrested, tried, convicted and punished.
Those who were arrested in Bosnia यहूद आजमाया in साराजेवो in अक्तूबर 1914.
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo court on the french-controlled salonika सामने in 1916–1917 on unrelated गलत आरोप ; सर्बिया चलाया three of the top military conspirators.
Much of what is known about the assassinations आता इससे ये दो ट्रायल और सम्बन्धित रिकॉर्ड.
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing और हत्याएं of 28 जून is अत्यधिक विवादास्पद क्युकी the attack led to the outbreak of World War I one month later.
Renée Kathleen zellweger ( born अप्रैल 25, 1969 ) is an American actress and producer.
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her role in the film Jerry Maguire ( 1996 ), and subsequently received two nominations लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ as ब्रिजेट जोन्स in the कॉमेडी ब्रिजेट जोन्स 's डायरी ( 2001 ), and as Roxie Hart in the musical Chicago ( 2002 ).
She won the Academy Award for Best Supporting अभिनेत्री लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the नाटक ठंडा पहाड़ ( 2003 ).
She has won an अकादमी पुरस्कार, तीन सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार, तीन स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार, और a bafta पुरस्कार ; थी नामित hasty खीर 's स्त्री of the Year in 2009 ; and established herself as one of the highest-paid Hollywood actresses as of 2007.
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) हैं the तीन smallest हड्डियों in the human body, the malleus, the incus and the stapes.
They are contained within the मध्य कान स्पेस और serve to संचारण ध्वनि इससे the air to the fluid-filled labyrinth ( cochlea ).
The absence of the auditory ossicles होता constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing loss.
The term `` ossicles '' वस्तुतः अर्थात् `` छोटा हड्डियों '' और commonly refers to the auditory ossicles, though the term may refer to any small bone throughout the body.
The New Covenant ( Hebrew • • — Greek • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical निर्वचन originally निकला इससे a phrase in the Book of Jeremiah, in the Hebrew Scriptures.
It is often thought of as an eschatological मुक्तिदाता आयु or संसार to आइये और is सम्बन्धित to the biblical अवधारणा of the Kingdom of God.
Generally, Christians believe that the New Covenant थी instituted at the पिछला भोजन as भाग of the eucharist, जिससे in the इन्जील of John includes the New Commandment.
There are several Christian eschatologies that further define the New Covenant, as an example an inaugurated eschatology defines and describes the New Covenant as an ongoing relationship between Christian believers and God that will be in full fruition after the Second coming of मसीह ; कि is, it होगा नहीं तभी be in पूरा फलीभूत in believing दिल, लकिन in the भविष्य बाह्य संसार as well.
The connection between the Blood of Christ and the New Covenant is seen in most modern English translations of the New Testament with the saying : `` this कप कि is poured आउट लिये तुम is the नई वचन in my blood ''.
ईसाइयों मानना कि यीशु is the मध्यस्थ of the नई वचन, and that the Blood of Christ shed at his crucifixion is the required blood of the covenant.
As with all covenants between परमेश्वर और man वर्णित in the बाइबल, the नई Covenant is considered `` a bond in blood sovereignly administered by God. ''
it रै महरूम theorized कि the नई वचन is the विधि of Christ as spoken during his Sermon on the Mount.
The following List of people pardoned or granted clemency by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य दस्तावेज़ the सबसे prominent मामले of प्रत्येक प्रेसिडेंसी.
As granted by the Constitution ( Article II, Section 2, Clause 1 ), Presidents have the शक्ति to ग्रान्ट दया in एक or अधिक of the following तरीके : the क्षमता to ग्रान्ट a पूरा pardon, to भ्रमण a वाक्य, or to rescind a fine.
U.S. राष्ट्रपतियों have no शक्ति to ग्रान्ट दया लिये अपराधों prosecuted under state law.
As to the अंतर between a pardon और a commutation:
A pardon is an कार्यपालिका order vacating a conviction.
A commutation is the mitigation of the sentence of someone currently serving a वाक्य लिये a अपराधों pursuant to a conviction, बगैर vacating the conviction itself.
लगभग 20,000 pardons और clemencies were issued by U.S. presidents in the 20th century alone.
The records of acts of clemency were पब्लिक जबतक 1934.
In 1981 the Office of the pardon attorney थी created and records from President H. W. Bush forward are now listed.
इस सूची शामिल pardons and commutations.
Tampa ( ) is a city in the u.S. राज्य of फ्लोरिडा.
It serves as the county seat for Hillsborough County और is स्तिथ on the वेस्ट coast of फ्लोरिडा, on tampa खाड़ी निकट the Gulf of Mexico.
The population of tampa in 2011 थी 346,037.
The current location of Tampa was once inhabited by स्वदेशी peoples of the सुरक्षा हार्बर संस्कृति, सबसे notably the Tocobaga and the Pohoy, who lived along the shores of Tampa Bay.
It was briefly explored by Spanish explorers in the early 16th सदी, लकिन वहीँ यहूद no स्थाई अमरीकी or यूरोपीय settlements भीतर आज 's city limits until after the United States had acquired Florida from Spain in 1819.
In 1824, the United States Army established a frontier outpost पुकारा फोर्ट ब्रुक at the मुँह of the hillsborough नदी, निकट the साईट of आज 's Tampa Convention Center.
The first civilian residents were pioneers जो settled निकट the फोर्ट लिये सुरक्षा इससे the nearby Seminole population.
The town grew slowly until the 1880s, when railroad links, the डिस्कवरी of फास्फेट, और the आगमन of the सिगार उद्योग jump-started tampa 's विकास और helped it to grow into an important city by the early 1900s.
Today, Tampa is a part of the महानगर क्षेत्रफल सबसे commonly referred to as the tampa Bay Area.
For U.S. Census purposes, Tampa is भाग of the tampa-st. petersburg-clearwater, Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area.
The four-county area is composed of roughly 2.7 million residents, making it the second largest metropolitan statistical area ( MSA ) in the राज्य, और the चौथी largest in the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य, पीछे मियामी, वॉशिंगटन, d.C., and Atlanta.
The Greater Tampa Bay क्षेत्रफल रै बस over 4 लाख निवासियों और generally includes the Tampa and Sarasota metro areas.
The tampa खाड़ी साझेदारी और u.S. जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़ा दिखाया an औसत सालाना विकास of 2.47 percent, or a gain of approximately 97,000 residents per year.
Between 2000 and 2006, the वृहद tampa खाड़ी मार्केट अनुभवी a संयुक्त विकास रेट of 14.8 प्रतिशत, growing from 3.4 million to 3.9 million and hitting the 4 million people mark on April 1, 2007.
A 2012 estimate shows the Tampa Bay area population to have 4,310,524 लोगों और a 2017 प्रक्षेप of 4,536,854 लोगों.
Tampa has a number of खेल टीमों, ऐसे as the tampa खाड़ी buccaneers of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग, the tampa खाड़ी बिजली of the नेशनल हॉकी लीग, and the Tampa Bay Storm of the Arena Football League.
The Tampa Bay Rays in Major League Baseball and the tampa खाड़ी rowdies of the उत्तर अमरीकी सॉकर लीग खेल उनके घर खेल in neighboring st. पीटर्सबर्ग, Florida.
In 2008, tampa थी क्रमित as the 5th बेहतरीन बाहरी city by Forbes.
A 2004 survey by the NYU newspaper Washington Square न्यूज क्रमित tampa as a शीर्ष नगर लिये `` twenty-somethings. ''
tampa is अभी क्रमित as a `` गामा '' संसार नगर by Loughborough University.
According to Loughborough, Tampa ranks alongside अन्य संसार शहरों ऐसे as फीनिक्स, Santo Domingo, and Osaka.
In recent years Tampa has seen a notable upsurge in high-market माँग इससे उपभोक्ता, signaling अधिक माल concentrated in the area.
Tampa hosted the 2012 रिपब्लिकन नेशनल Convention.
The शेवरलेट cavalier थी a कॉम्पैक्ट ऑटोमोबाइल उत्पादित इससे 1982 to 2005 by General Motors.
निर्मित on the कम्पनी 's j मंच, the cavalier produced the highest sales in 1984.
AT & T Mobility LLC branded and referred to as AT & T ( formerly Cingular Wireless LLC ), is a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of at & t inc. कि provides बेतार सेवाएं to 107 लाख सदस्य in the संयुक्त राज्य, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
at & t गतिशीलता is the दूसरी largest बेतार दूरसंचार प्रदाता in the United States and Puerto Rico, behind Verizon Wireless, which serves 115.78 million customers as of the fourth quarter of 2012.
AT & t गतिशीलता is headquartered in the lenox पार्क area of DeKalb Co. Georgia, just outside Atlanta.
Originally Cingular Wireless LLC from 2000 to 2007, a joint venture between SBC संचार और bellsouth, the कम्पनी acquired the बूढ़ा at & t बेतार in 2004 ; sbc बाद acquired the असली at & t और re-branded as `` AT & T ''.
Cingular became wholly owned by AT & T in दिसम्बर 2006 as a परिणाम of at & t 's अधिग्रहण of BellSouth.
In January 2007, cingular पुष्टि it होता re-brand itself अंतर्गत the AT & T name.
Although the legal corporate name change occurred immediately, for both regulatory and brand-awareness कारण दोनो ब्रांड्स यहूद प्रयुक्त in the कम्पनी 's साइनेज और विज्ञापन during a transition period.
The transition concluded in लेट जून, बस prior to the rollout of the Apple iPhone.
On March 20, 2011, at & t गतिशीलता घोषित इसके इरादे to acquire T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom for $ 39 billion.
If it had received government and regulatory approval, AT & T would have था अधिक than 130 लाख सदस्य.
However, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Federal Communications Commission, and AT & T Mobility 's प्रतिस्पर्धी ( ऐसे as स्प्रिंट nextel ) opposed the मूव on the grounds कि it होता reduce प्रतियोगिता in the cellular communications market.
In December 2011, in the face of both सरकारी और फैली उपभोक्ता विपक्ष, at & t withdrew उनके प्रस्ताव to पूरा the merger.
Martin Luther King, Jr. ( January 15, 1929 – April 4, 1968 ) थी an अमरीकी clergyman, activist, और नेता in the african-american सिविल अधिकारों Movement.
He is best known for his role in the उन्नति of सिविल अधिकारों using nonviolent सिविल disobedience.
King has become a नेशनल प्रतीक in the इतिहास of American progressivism.
A Baptist minister, किंग became a सिविल अधिकारों activist जल्दी in his career.
He led the 1955 मोंटगोमरी बस बहिष्कार और helped मिला the दक्षिणी ईसाई नेतृत्व सम्मेलन ( sclc ) in 1957, serving as its first president.
With the SCLC, King led an unsuccessful struggle against पृथक्करण in albany, जॉर्जिया, in 1962, और व्यवस्थित nonviolent विरोध in बर्मिंघम, Alabama, that attracted national attention following television news coverage of the brutal police response.
किंग भी helped to व्यवस्थित the 1963 कूच on वॉशिंगटन, जहाँ he delivered his `` I Have a Dream `` speech.
वहीँ, he स्थापित उसके प्रतिष्ठा as one of the greatest orators in American history.
He also established his reputation as a radical, and became an object of the संघीय ब्यूरो of छानबीन 's COINTELPRO for the rest of his life.
FBI agents investigated him लिये संभावित कम्युनिस्ट ties, अंकित उसके extramarital liaisons और reported on उन्हें to सरकारी officials, और on one occasion, mailed King a threatening anonymous letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit suicide.
On October 14, 1964, King received the Nobel सलाम पुरस्कार लिये combating जातिगत असमानता through nonviolence.
In 1965, he and the SCLC helped to organize the Selma to मोंटगोमरी marches और the following साल, he took the गति north to Chicago.
In the फाइनल सालो of उसके जीवन, किंग विस्तारित उसके फ़ोकस to शामिल गरीबी और the वियतनाम युद्ध, alienating many of his liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond Vietnam ''.
King was planning a national occupation of वॉशिंगटन, d.C., पुकारा the ग़रीब लोगों 's अभियान.
King was assassinated on अप्रैल 4, 1968, in मेम्फिस, Tennessee.
His death was followed by दंगे in many U.S. cities.
Allegations that James Earl Ray, the man convicted of killing King, had been framed or acted in कॉन्सर्ट साथ सरकारी एजेंटों persisted लिये दशकों बाद the शूटिंग, और the जूरी of a 1999 सिविल trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a conspiracy against King.
King was awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक of स्वतंत्रता और the congressional सुनहरा पदक posthumously.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day was स्थापित as a u.S. संघीय अवकाश in 1986.
Hundreds of streets in the U.S. have महरूम renamed in उसके सम्मान.
A memorial statue on the नेशनल मॉल थी खोली to the public in 2011.
The tiger ( पेंथेरा tigris ) is the largest बिल्ली प्रजाति, reaching a total body length of up to and weighing up to.
It is the third largest land carnivore ( पीछे तभी the ध्रुवीय भालू और the भूरा bear ).
Its सबसे recognizable विशेषता is a पैटर्न of अंधेरा लंबवत धारियाँ on reddish-orange fur with a lighter underside.
It has exceptionally stout teeth, and the canines are the longest among living felids with a क्राउन ऊँचाई of as much as or भी.
In zoos, टाइगर्स have जिया लिये 20 to 26 सालो, जिससे also seems to be their longevity in the wild.
They are territorial and generally solitary but social पशु, प्रायः requiring विशाल संलग्न क्षेत्रों of आवास कि support their prey requirements.
This, coupled with the fact that they are स्वदेशी to कुछ of the अधिक densely आबादी स्थान on धरती, रै caused significant conflicts with humans.
टाइगर्स एकबार ranged widely आरपार Asia, from Turkey in the west to the eastern coast of Russia.
Over the past 100 years, they have lost 93 % of their ऐतिहासिक दायरा, और have महरूम extirpated इससे दक्षिणपश्चिम और सेंट्रल एशिया, इससे the आइलैंड्स of Java and Bali, and from large areas of Southeast and Eastern Asia.
Today, they range from the siberian ताइगा to खोलें grasslands और तीव्र mangrove swamps.
The remaining six tiger subspecies have महरूम वर्गीकृत as endangered by IUCN.
The global population in the wild is estimated to number between 3,062 and 3,948 individuals, bas इससे around 100,000 at the प्रारंभ of the 20th सदी, साथ most remaining populations occurring in small pockets isolated from each other.
Major reasons for जनसांख्यिकी मनाही शामिल habitat destruction, habitat fragmentation and poaching.
The extent of area occupied by tigers is अनुमानित at कम than, a 41 % decline from the area estimated in the mid-1990s.
Tigers are among the most recognisable and popular of the संसार 's charismatic megafauna.
They have featured prominently in प्राचीन mythology और लोकगीत, और continue to be चित्रित in modern films and literature.
टाइगर्स appear on अनेक ध्वज, coats of बाहें, और as mascots for sporting teams.
The Bengal tiger is the नेशनल एनिमल of दोनो इण्डिया और बांग्लादेश.
The simplified आतंरिक ढांचा of a हरितलवक
Overview of the Calvin साईकिल और कार्बन fixation
The light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ of photosynthesis हैं रासायनिक reactions that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose.
These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled क्षेत्रफल of a हरितलवक outside of the thylakoid membranes.
ये प्रतिक्रियाएँ लो the light-dependent reactions and perform further chemical processes on them.
There are three phases to the light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ, collectively पुकारा the calvin साईकिल : कार्बन fixation, reduction reactions, and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration.
Despite its नाम, इस प्रक्रम occurs तभी when light is available.
Plants do not carry आउट the calvin cycle by night.
They, बजाय, रिलीज sucrose into the फ्लोएम from their starch reserves.
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation, C4 carbon fixation, and Crassulacean Acid चयापचय ) ; कैम पौधे स्टोर malic एसिड in उनके vacuoles प्रत्येक रात्रि और रिलीज it by दिन in अनुक्रम to मेक इस प्रक्रम work.
A linen handkerchief with pulled लड़ी कढ़ाई around the किनारे
Linen cloth बरामद इससे qumran गुफा 1 निकट the Dead Sea.
लिनेन ( ) is a वस्त्र बना from the fibers of the flax plant, Linum usitatissimum.
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture, but when it is made into garments, it is valued लिये इसके असाधारण शीतलता and freshness in hot weather.
The word `` linen '' is of West Germanic origin and cognates with the Latin name for the flax संयंत्र linum, और the पहले यूनानी λινόν ( linon ).
This word history रै दिए वृद्धि to a क्रमांक of अन्य शर्तें in अंग्रेज़ी, the सबसे notable of जिससे is the English word line, derived from the use of a linen ( flax ) thread to determine a straight line.
Textiles in a linen weave texture, even when made of cotton, hemp और अन्य non-flax मछली हैं भी loosely referred to as `` लिनेन ''.
Such fabrics generally have उनके अपना विशिष्ट names अन्य than linen ; for example, fine cotton yarn in a linen-style weave is called Madapolam.
The collective term `` linens `` is स्टिल प्रायः प्रयुक्त generically to describe a क्लास of woven और भी knitted bed, bath, table and kitchen textiles.
The name linens is retained because traditionally, लिनेन थी प्रयुक्त लिये अनेक of ये items.
In the past, the शब्द `` linens '' थी भी प्रयुक्त to औसत lightweight undergarments ऐसे as शर्ट, chemises, waistshirts, lingerie ( a शब्द भी cognate with linen ), and detachable shirt collars and cuffs, which were historically made almost exclusively out of linen.
The inside cloth layer of fine कम्पोजिट कपडे garments ( as लिये उदाहरण jackets ) थी traditionally बना of लिनेन, और इस is the उत्पत्ति of the word lining.
Linen textiles appear to be some of the oldest in the संसार : उनके इतिहास goes वापस अनेक thousands of years.
Fragments of straw, seeds, fibers, yarns, and various types of fabrics जिससे तिथि वापस to परिचय 8000 bc have been found in Swiss lake dwellings.
Dyed flax fibers found in a prehistoric cave in Georgia सुझाएँ the उपयोग of woven लिनेन fabrics from wild flax may date back even earlier to 36,000 BP.
Linen was sometimes used as करेंसी in प्राचीन मिश्र.
Egyptian mummies were wrapped in linen because it was seen as a symbol of light और पवित्रता, और as a प्रदर्शक of माल.
Some of these fabrics, woven from hand spun yarns, were very fine लिये उनके दिन, लकिन हैं coarse compared to आधुनिक लिनेन.
Today, linen is प्रायः an महंगी वस्त्र, and is produced in relatively small quantities.
It has a long `` staple '' ( individual fiber लंबाई ) सापेक्ष to कपास और other natural fibers.
Many products are made of linen : aprons, bags, तौलिये ( swimmers, नहाना, बीच, देह और धो तौलिये ), napkins, bed linens, linen tablecloths, runners, chair covers, and men 's & women 's wear.
The FIFA World Cup, often simply the World Cup, is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the वरिष्ठ मेन 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930, मगर in 1942 और 1946 जब it थी नहीं held because of the Second World War.
The वर्तमान champions हैं स्पेन, जो won the 2010 tournament.
The current format of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which फिलहाल takes प्लेस over the preceding तीन सालो, is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the tournament together with the host nation ( s ).
The 19 World Cup tournaments have महरूम जीती by आठ अलग नेशनल टीमों.
Brazil have won five times, और वे हैं the तभी टोली to have निभाई in प्रत्येक tournament.
The other World Cup winners are Italy, with four titles ; Germany, with three titles ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे, साथ दो शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और इंग्लैण्ड, फ़्रांस, and Spain, with one title each.
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 लाख लोगों देखी the फाइनल मैच of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany.
The अगला तीन संसार cups होगा be hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022.
The is an विस्तार यंत्र लिये the वी रिमोट वीडियो खेल नियंत्रक लिये the वी that allows it to more accurately capture complex motion.
According to Nintendo, the sensor in the device supplements the accelerometer and Sensor Bar capabilities of the Wii रिमोट to enable क्रियाएँ to be rendered identically on the स्क्रीन in रियल समय.
the वी 's successor कंसोल, the वी U, supports the Wii MotionPlus and its peripherals in games where use of its touchscreen-built-in primary controller is not necessary.
Majulah Singapura ( onward सिंगापुर ) is the national anthem of Singapore.
Composed by Zubir Said in 1958 as a theme song for official कृत्यों of the नगर परिषद of सिंगापुर, the सोंग थी चयनित in 1959 as the द्वीप 's anthem when it attained self-government.
Upon full स्वतंत्रता in 1965, majulah singapura थी formally adopted as Singapore 's national anthem.
By law the anthem may only be sung with its original Malay गीत, हालांकि वहीँ मौजूद प्राधिकृत अनुवाद of the गीत of the anthem in Singapore 's three other official languages : English, Mandarin and Tamil.
Originally composed in the key of G major, in 2001 the national anthem was officially relaunched in the निम्नतर कुंजी of f प्रमुख as इस थी कहा to allow लिये a `` grander और अधिक प्रेरणादायी arrangement ''.
The national anthem is regularly performed or सुंग in स्कूलों और हथियारबंद शक्तियां शिविरों at ceremonies आयोजित at the शुरूआत and/or the समाप्त of प्रत्येक दिन, दौरान जिससे the national flag is also raised and lowered and the national pledge is taken.
singaporeans हैं विशेषकर प्रोत्साहित to गाओ the नेशनल गान on अवसरों of नेशनल जश्न or नेशनल significance such as at the National Day Parade, at National Day observance ceremonies conducted by educational institutions and government departments, and at sporting events at which Singapore teams are participating.
An expedition 's shipwrights भवन a brigantine, 1541.
Shipbuilding is the निर्माण of जहाजों और फ्लोटिंग बरतन.
It सामान्यतः takes प्लेस in a specialized facility known as a shipyard.
Shipbuilders, also called shipwrights, follow a specialized occupation कि traces इसके जड़ें to पहले अंकित history.
Shipbuilding and ship repairs, both commercial and सैन्य, हैं referred to as `` नवल अभियान्त्रिकी ''.
The निर्माण of नौकाएँ is a समान कार्यकलाप पुकारा boat building.
the dismantling of जहाजों is called ship breaking.
Wakonda is a town in Clay काउंटी, दक्षिण डकोटा, संयुक्त राज्य.
The population थी 321 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
The following is a list of the most populous incorporated स्थान of the संयुक्त States of America.
As defined by the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो, an `` incorporated प्लेस `` शामिल a variety of designations, including city, town, village, borough, and municipality.
A few exceptional Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) are also included in the जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's लिस्टिंग of incorporated places.
संचित city-counties represent a पृथक प्रकार of government that includes the entire population of a county, or county equivalent.
Some consolidated city-counties, however, शामिल अनेक incorporated places.
This list presents तभी कि portion ( or `` संतुलन '' ) of such consolidated city-counties that are not a part of another incorporated place.
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual municipalities within their defined limits, which does not शामिल अन्य municipalities or unincorporated suburban क्षेत्रों भीतर शहरी agglomerations.
A different ranking is evident जब considering u.S. महानगर क्षेत्रफल populations.
alt=Larger flashcart, दिखाया साथ छोटी कार्ड और U.S. quarter for size
Nintendo DS storage devices are devices used to store a licensed developer 's work-in-progress बिंब, homebrew वीडियो खेल और डाउनलोड वाणिज्यिक खेल ( चूंकि the निन्टेंडो DS is not sold with a rewritable storage medium ).
licensed डेवलपर, however, can use a blue Intelligent Systems Nitro Emulator box to flash cards.
These डिवाइस हैं भी ज्ञात as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards ''.
There are two main classes of flashcarts : older devices जिससे अनुरूप in slot-2 ( the खेल लड़के अग्रिम खेल पाक स्लॉट ) और नए डिवाइस कि fit in Slot-1 ( the DS Game Card slot ).
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) devices have been historically cheaper due to economies of scale ( inherited from their उपयोग साथ खेल लड़के अग्रिम ), लकिन आवश्यकता a booting औजार in slot-1 in अनुक्रम to उपयोग the touch screen and other DS features.
Second-generation devices ( those जिससे तभी उपयोग slot-1 ) do नहीं कार्य साथ gba homebrew, लकिन became कम महंगी and easier to use, rivaling many Slot-2 devices in price.
First-generation डिवाइस शामिल gba फ्लैश कारतूस, GBAMP CF, SuperCard, and M3.
second-generation डिवाइस include R4 Revolution, CycloDS, G6 Real and DS-X.
The storage device either contains फ्लैश मेमोरी or a slot for a memory card to store homebrew.
Storage devices with a memory-card slot usually have अधिक भंडार क्षमता than flash-memory devices.
Although flash-memory capacity is usually measured in megabits ( Mb ), memory-card capacity is प्रायः measured in मेगाबाइट ( mb ) ( जहाँ 8 mb is 1 MB ).
Storage-device brands differ in their support लिये homebrew ; ds और खेल लड़के अग्रिम roms ; खास सुविधाएँ ( ऐसे as ability to play media files ) ; physical size and cost.
Strictly बोलना, a भंडार यंत्र is नहीं जरुरी लिये ds साथ flashme संस्थापित because homebrew can be sent to the DS using WMB.
However, this is not an easily-portable method क्युकी the ds needs to be भीतर दायरा of a उपयुक्त wi-fi card.
are American लोगों of जापानी heritage.
Japanese Americans have historically been among the three largest एशियाई अमरीकी समुदायों, लकिन in हाल दशकों, it रै become the छठे largest समूह at roughly 1,304,286, including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity.
In the 2010 census, the largest Japanese American communities were found in California with 272,528, Hawaii with 185,502, नई यॉर्क साथ 37,780, वॉशिंगटन साथ 35,008, and Illinois with 17,542.
Southern कैलिफ़ोर्निया रै the largest japanese-american जनसांख्यिकी in North America.
200px
This is a व्यापक लिस्टिंग जिससे हाइलाइट significant उपलब्धियाँ और milestones based upon Billboard magazine 's singles charts, most notably the Billboard Hot 100.
This list spans from the issue dated January 1, 1955 to उपस्थित.
The Billboard Hot 100 began with the issue dated August 4, 1958, and is currently the मानक लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक चार्ट in the संयुक्त राज्य.
Prior to the सृष्टि of the hot 100, बिलबोर्ड प्रकाशित चार singles चार्ट : `` बेहतरीन विक्रेता in स्टोर्स '', `` सबसे निभाई by Jockeys '', `` Most Played in Jukeboxes '' and `` The Top 100 ''.
These चार्ट, जिससे ranged इससे 20 to 100 स्लॉट, were phased out at different times between 1957 and 1958.
Though technically not part of the hot 100 चार्ट इतिहास, उनके आंकड़ा is शामिल लिये कम्प्यूटेशनल उद्देश्य, and to avoid unenlightening or misleading characterizations.
All items listed below are from the Hot 100 era, unless वरना विख्यात ( pre-hot 100 charts ).
V is an American science fiction television series कि भागा लिये दो सीज़न on एबीसी, इससे नवम्बर 3, 2009 to March 15, 2011.
A remake of the 1983 miniseries created by Kenneth Johnson, the new series chronicles the arrival on धरती of a technologically उन्नत एलियन प्रजाति जिससे ostensibly आता in सलाम, लकिन दरअसल रै sinister motives.
V stars Morena Baccarin, Lourdes Benedicto, Morris Chestnut, Joel Gretsch, Logan Huffman, Charles Mesure, एलिज़ाबेथ मिशेल, लौरा vandervoort और स्कॉट भेड़िया, और थी कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by स्कॉट rosenbaum, यवेस simoneau, स्कॉट Peters, and Jace Hall.
The series was produced by The Scott Peters Company, HDFilms and warner भाईs. टेलीविज़न.
Geocaching is an outdoor recreational activity, in which the participants use a Global Positioning System ( GPS ) receiver or mobile device and other navigational techniques to hide and तलाश containers, पुकारा `` geocaches '' or `` caches '', anywhere in the world.
A typical cache is a small waterproof container containing a logbook where the geocacher enters the तिथि वे मिला it और लक्षण it साथ उनके established code name.
After signing into the log, the cache must be placed back exactly जहाँ the व्यक्ति found it.
Larger containers such as plastic storage containers ( Tupperware or समान ) or ammunition बाक्स can भी contain वस्तुएं लिये व्यापार, प्रायः खिलौने or trinkets of छोटी मान.
Geocaching shares many aspects with benchmarking, trigpointing, orienteering, treasure-hunting, letterboxing, and waymarking.
Boogie Down Productions was a hip hop group that was originally रचित of krs-one, d-nice, और dj स्कॉट la Rock.
DJ Scott La Rock थी murdered on अगस्त 27, 1987, महीने बाद the रिलीज of BDP 's debut album, Criminal Minded.
The नाम of the समूह, बोगी bas, गर्भाशयी इससे a उपनाम लिये the दक्षिण bronx section of The Bronx, one of the five boroughs of New York City.
The group pioneered the fusion of dancehall reggae and hip hop music and their debut LP Criminal minded contained फ़्रैंक descriptions of जीवन in the दक्षिण bronx of the लेट 1980s thus setting the stage for what would eventually become gangsta rap.
A municipal bond is a बंध जारी by a लोकल government, or their agencies.
Potential issuers of municipal bonds include states, cities, counties, redevelopment agencies, special-purpose districts, school जिले, पब्लिक यूटिलिटी जिले, सरेआम स्वामित्व एयरपोर्ट और seaports, और कोई अन्य governmental entity ( or group of governments ) at or below the state level.
नगरपालिका bonds may be सामान्य दायित्वों of the issuer or secured by specified revenues.
In the United States, interest income received by holders of municipal bonds is often exempt from the federal income tax and from the income tax of the राज्य in जिससे वे हैं जारी, हालांकि नगरपालिका bonds जारी लिये निश्चित उद्देश्य may नहीं be tax exempt.
Unlike new issue stocks that are brought to मार्केट साथ दाम प्रतिबंध जबतक the सौदे is बेची, municipal bonds are free to trade at any time once they are purchased by the investor.
पेशेवर व्यापारियों regularly trade and retrade the same bonds several times a week.
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' is a song written by स्टीव winwood, स्पेंसर डेविस और muff winwood, और originally performed by the स्पेंसर Davis Group.
The basic riff of the song was उधार इससे the होमर बैंको सोंग `` ( ai n't कि ) a लॉट of प्रेम '', written by Banks and Willie Dean `` Deanie '' Parker.
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' was a UK # 2 in the पतझड़ of 1966 और a us # 7.
The song is ranked # 247 on the रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका 's सूची of The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
The version issued in the UK ( and probably most of Europe ) is different from that issued in the us on the संयुक्त कलाकारों लेबल, होने धीमा, और lacking the बैकिंग vocals और `` सजीव sounding '' प्रदर्शन मिला on the us single.
( The US version has more often been used on reissue cds, भी those coming इससे Europe. )
The single features the sound of the हैमंड b-3 अंग.
The Internet Movie Database ( IMDb ) is an online database of सूचना सम्बन्धित to films, टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम, और वीडियो खेल.
This शामिल अभिनेताओं, उत्पादन क्रू कर्मियों, और fictional वर्ण प्रदर्शित in these three visual entertainment media.
It is एक of the सबसे लोकप्रिय ऑनलाइन entertainment गंतव्यों, with over 100 million unique users each month and a solid and rapidly growing mobile presence.
IMDb was launched on October 17, 1990, and in 1998 थी acquired by amazon.com.
As of April 27, 2013, IMDb had 2,503,783 titles ( includes एपीसोड ) और 5,192,493 personalities in इसके डेटाबेस, as खूब as 43 million registered users.
the जालस्थल रै an Alexa rank of 48.
Fibre चैनल मेजबान बस एडाप्टर ( 64-bit PCI-X card )
SCSI मेजबान बस एडाप्टर ( 16-bit ISA card )
In computer hardware, a मेजबान नियंत्रक, मेजबान एडाप्टर, or मेजबान बस एडाप्टर ( hba ) connects a host system ( the computer ) to other network and storage devices.
The terms are primarily प्रयुक्त to refer to डिवाइस लिये connecting scsi, fibre Channel and eSATA devices.
However, devices लिये connecting to आईडीई, ईथरनेट, firewire, USB and other systems may also be called host adapters.
Recently, the advent of iSCSI and Fibre Channel over Ethernet रै brought परिचय ईथरनेट hbas, जिससे हैं अलग इससे Ethernet NICs in that they include TCP Offload Engines.
There are also converged HBAs that support both Ethernet and Fibre चैनल पुकारा converged संजाल adapters ( CNAs ).
cashmere स्कार्फ
Modern men 's cashmere sweaters लिये बिक्री.
cashmere ऊन, प्रायः बस ज्ञात as cashmere, is a fiber obtained from Cashmere goats and other types of goat.
The word cashmere derives from an बूढ़ा स्पेलिंग of काश्मीर.
cashmere is ठीक in बनावट, strong, light, and soft.
Garments made from it provide बेहतरीन इन्सुलेशन.
In the संयुक्त राज्य, अंतर्गत the u.s. ऊन उत्पाद labeling अधिनियम of 1939, as amended, ( 15 Uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ), states that a wool or textile product may not be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
such wool product is the fine ( dehaired ) undercoat fibers produced by a cashmere बकरी ( capra hircus laniger ) ;
the average diameter of the fiber of such wool उत्पाद करता नहीं exceed 19 माइक्रोन ; और
such wool product करता नहीं contain अधिक than 3 प्रतिशत ( by वज़न ) of cashmere fibers with average diameters that exceed 30 microns.
The average रेशा व्यास may be विषय to a गुणांक of विभिन्नता around the mean that shall not exceed 24 percent.
Jennifer convertibles inc. is the मालिक और licensor of sofabed और चमड़े specialty retail stores in the United States, with stores located throughout the Eastern seaboard, in the Midwest, on the West Coast and in the Southwest.
The company was founded in 1975 and is आधारित in woodbury, New York.
On July 19, 2010, the company announced that it had filed for bankruptcy as a consequence of `` substantial losses ''.
According to Furniture Today the company was number 48 among furniture रिटेलर साथ us $ 114 लाख in बिक्री लिये the साल ending August 29, 2009.
It subsequently emerged from Chapter 11 under the कंट्रोल of इसके प्रमुख प्रदायक, the haining mengnu समूह.
Egg roll is a term used for अनेक अलग भोजन around the संसार.
2__egg_roll __ किस्में of अंडा रोल्स हैं मिला in मेनलैंड चीन, अनेक chinese-speaking regions of Asia, and Chinese immigrant communities around the world.
Egg rolls as referred to in China.
In Guangdong and Hong Kong, egg roll प्रायः refers to बिस्किट roll.
इस is a प्रकार of biscuit.
The ingredient शामिल अंडा, आटा और sugar.
Egg roll also is a dish in Canton और हांग काँग, इस is प्रायः बना with vegetable.
Within China egg rolls are eaten predominantly in the southeast और हैं नहीं as commonly consumed in the north and western parts of China.
In American Chinese cuisine, an egg फेंकें is a savory डिश typically परोसा as an appetizer.
It is usually stuffed with chicken, pork or shrimp, गोभी, गाजर, टमाटर, सेम sprouts और अन्य सब्जियां, and then deep fried.
This variety of the egg roll is बहुत आम और लोकप्रिय, आरपार भी क्षेत्रीय varieties of American Chinese food, and is often included as part of a `` combination platter ''.
in मॉन्ट्रियल, कनाडा, open-ended eggrolls are a Jewish-Chinese fusion dish.
They can be either kosher certified or merely कोषेर स्टाइल.
Pain and suffering is the legal term for the physical and emotional stress caused from an चोट ( देखिए भी पीड़ा और कष्ट ).
Some damages that might be अंतर्गत इस श्रेणी होता be : aches, अस्थाई और स्थाई सीमाएं on कार्यकलाप, संभावित shortening of life, depression or scarring.
When filing a lawsuit as a result of an चोट, it is आम लिये किसी to तलाश धन दोनो in मुआवजे लिये वास्तविक धन कि is lost and for the pain and stress associated with virtually any injury.
In a suit, pain and suffering is part of the `` general damages '' section of the claimant 's claim, or, alternatively, it is an element of `` compensatory '' non-economic damages that allows रिकवरी लिये the दिमागी anguish and/or शारीरिक पीड़ा endured by the claimant as a परिणाम of चोट लिये जिससे the अभियोक्ता seeks redress.
Apart from money damages awarded in trial, money damages are भी दिए informally बाहर the न्यायिक प्रणाली in mediations, मध्यस्थता ( दोनो of जिससे may be court annexed or non litigated claims ) as well as in routine insurance settlements.
Individual claimants or those represented by वकील प्रायः उपस्थित मांगे to insurers to settle for money.
These demand for bodily injury compensation monies प्रायः नियत आउट क्षतिपूर्ति कि हैं similarly प्रयुक्त in the court litigated pleadings.
मांगे हैं प्रायः लिखा summaries of a claimant 's medical care and the facts which resulted in the injury.
नमूना of a medallion signature guarantee stampIn
the United राज्य और कनाडा, a medallion हस्ताक्षर गारंटी is a खास signature guarantee for the transfer of securities.
It is a guarantee by the transferring financial institution that the हस्ताक्षर is वास्तविक और the वित्तीय संस्था स्वीकृत देयता for any forgery.
Signature guarantees protect शेयरधारकों by preventing अनधिकृत हस्तांतरण और possible investor losses.
They also limit the देयता of the ट्रांसफ़र एजेंट जो स्वीकृत the certificates.
Different institutions have different policies as to what type of identification they require to provide the गारंटी और whether वे चार्ज a शुल्क लिये ऐसे सेवा ( प्रायः नाममात्र if कोई ).
Most institutions होगा नहीं गारंटी a हस्ताक्षर of किसी who has not already been their customer.
A medallion signature guarantee is नहीं the वही as an acknowledgment by a नोटरी पब्लिक, in the भाव कि a `` हस्ताक्षर गारंटी '' is a प्रमाणन by the संस्था कि the हस्ताक्षर is प्रामाणिक, और an acknowledgment is a certification by a notary public attesting that the signer signed a document voluntarily.
Some banks may no longer provide इस सेवा, however, many still do as well as other financial institutions such as a Savings and Loans and Credit Unions.
At their sole discretion, ये संस्थानों may स्टिल decline to provide the Medallion Signature Guarantees.
When US citizens are abroad, some financial संस्थानों may accept संयुक्त राज्य दूतावास seals, in प्लेस of the Medallion Signature Guarantee Stamp.
Pacific Electric Railway streetcars stacked at a junkyard on टर्मिनल द्वीप, लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, कूच 1956
The General Motors streetcar conspiracy ( भी ज्ञात as the ग्रेट अमरीकी स्ट्रीटकार कांड ) refers to दोषारोपण और convictions in संबंध to a कार्यक्रम by सामान्य मोटर्स ( GM ) and other companies who purchased and then dismantled streetcar and electric train systems in many American cities.
Between 1936 and 1950, National City Lines and Pacific City Lines —with investment from GM, Firestone Tire, Standard Oil of California, Phillips Petroleum, Mack Trucks, and the संघीय अभियान्त्रिकी corporation—bought over 100 इलेक्ट्रिक surface-traction प्रणालियों in 45 शहरों सहित बाल्टीमोर, न्यूर्क, लॉस एंजिल्स, नई यॉर्क नगर, ओकलैंड और सैन डिएगो और परिवर्तित उन्हें into बस operation.
Several of the companies involved were convicted in 1949 of conspiracy to monopolize interstate commerce but यहूद acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the ownership of these companies.
Some suggest that this program played a key role in the decline of public transit in cities across the United States ; notably एडविन J. quinby, जो पहला खींचा ध्यान to the कार्यक्रम in 1946, और तब ब्रैडफोर्ड C. snell, an anti-trust attorney लिये the संयुक्त राज्य Senate whose controversial 1974 testimony to a Senate inquiry brought the issue to national awareness.
Both Quinby and Snell argued that the deliberate विनाश of streetcars थी भाग of a larger रणनीति to धक्का the संयुक्त राज्य into automobile dependency.
Others say that independent economic factors brought परिचय परिवर्तन in the पारगमन प्रणाली, सहित the ग्रेट अवसाद, the पब्लिक यूटिलिटी पकड़कर कम्पनी अधिनियम of 1935, मजदूर अशांति, मार्केट शक्तियां, rapidly increasing traffic congestion, urban sprawl, taxation policies that favored private vehicle ownership, and general enthusiasm for the automobile.
एक लेखक on the विषय रै सुझाया कि snell और अन्य गिरी into simplistic षड्यंत्र सिद्धान्त सोच, bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` Clearly, GM waged a war on electric traction.
It was indeed an all out उत्पीड़न, लकिन by no अर्थात् the सिंगल reason for the failure of rapid transit.
Also, it is just as clear that actions और inactions by सरकारी contributed significantly to the elimination of electric traction. ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving effective rail-based urban transport प्रणालियों आधारित on streetcars or trams, सहित न्यूर्क, फिलाडेल्फिया, सैन फ्रांसिस्को, पिट्सबर्ग, and Boston ; others are re-introducing them.
The स्टोरी रै महरूम छान अनेक टाइम्स in छपाई, फिल्मी और अन्य मीडिया, notably in Who Framed Roger Rabbit, Taken for a Ride and The End of Suburbia.
Corwin हाउस, सलेम, मैसाचुसेट्स, निर्मित ca. 1660, First Period English
American colonial architecture includes several building design styles associated with the colonial period of the संयुक्त राज्य, सहित पहला काल अंग्रेज़ी ( late-medieval ), फ्रेंच औपनिवेशिक, स्पेनी औपनिवेशिक, डच Colonial and Georgian.
These styles are associated with the houses, churches और सरकारी इमारतें of the काल इससे परिचय 1600 through the 19th century.
`` In the Mood '' is a big band era # 1 hit अंकित by अमरीकी bandleader Glenn Miller.
It topped the चार्ट in 1940 in the u.S. और एक साल later was featured in the movie Sun Valley Serenade.
In 1999, National Public रेडियो ( npr ) शामिल the 1939 ग्लेन मिलर रिकॉर्डिंग on आरसीए bluebird on the npr 100, the सूची of `` The 100 most important American musical works of the 20th century ''.
वरुण logo
The NEPTUNE Canada project is the world’s first regional-scale भाटे समंदर वेधशाला कि plugs सीधे into the Internet.
Since December 2009, it has allowed people to `` surf '' the seafloor while ocean scientists चलाएं deep-water प्रयोग इससे लैब्स और universities around the world.
Along with its सिस्टर प्रोजेक्ट, शुक्र, वरुण offers a unique approach to ocean science.
Traditionally, ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry आउट उनके शोध, जबकि the वरुण project uses a remotely operated crawler.
A gramophone record, commonly ज्ञात as a फोनोग्राफ रिकार्ड ( in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी ), विनाइल रिकार्ड ( in सन्दर्भ to विनाइल, the सामग्री सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त बाद परिचय 1950 ), or colloquially, `` a record '', is an analog sound storage medium consisting of a flat disc with an inscribed, modulated spiral groove.
The groove usually starts near the periphery और ends निकट the बीच of the डिस्क.
Phonograph records are generally described by their diameter in inches ( 12-inch, 10-inch, 7-inch, etc. ), the rotational speed at which they are played ( `` 33 rpm ``, `` 78 '', `` 45 '', etc. ), उनके समय क्षमता ( `` long playing '' ), उनके reproductive सटीकता, or `` वफ़ादारी `` ( `` ऊँची वफ़ादारी '', `` orthophonic '', `` full-range '', इत्यादि. ), और the क्रमांक of चैनल्स of ऑडियो provided ( `` मोनो ``, `` स्टीरियो ``, `` quadraphonic ``, etc. ).
Phonograph records were the primary medium used for म्यूज़िक जनन लिये सबसे of the 20th सदी, replacing the फोनोग्राफ cylinder, with which it had co-existed, by the 1920s.
By the late 1980s, डिजिटल मीडिया था gained a larger मार्केट share, और the vinyl record left the mainstream in 1991.
They continue to be manufactured and बेची in the 21st सदी.
In 2008, nearly 2.9 million units shipped, the most in कोई साल चूंकि 1998 और the स्वरूप रै जारी to धीरे regain popularity.
They are especially used by DJs and audiophiles लिये अनेक प्रकार of म्यूज़िक.
As of 2013, विनाइल रिकॉर्ड continue to be प्रयुक्त for distribution.
Grassland in the Santa Rosa Plateau, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Grassland in the antelope घाटी, California
The Konza tallgrass prairie in the चकमक पहाड़ियाँ of northeastern Kansas.
A घासभूमि in the फिलीपीन.
An Inner मंगोलियाई घासभूमि in the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of China
Grasslands are areas where the vegetation is dominated by grasses ( Poaceae ), however sedge ( cyperaceae ) और फटाफट ( juncaceae ) परिवारों can भी be मिला.
Grasslands occur naturally on all महाद्वीपों मगर अंटार्कटिक.
In temperate latitudes, ऐसे as northwestern यूरोपीय और the ग्रेट मैदान और कैलिफ़ोर्निया in उत्तर अमेरिका, देशी grasslands हैं वर्चस्व by बारहमासी गुच्छा ग्रास प्रजाति, whereas in warmer climates annual species form a greater component of the vegetation.
Grasslands are found in most ecoregions of the धरती.
For example there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the शीतोष्ण grasslands, savannas, और shrublands बायोम ( ' ecosystem ' ), जिससे is एक of आठ terrestrial ecozones of the Earth 's surface.
Henna ( Lawsonia inermis, also called henna tree ) or Hina is a flowering plant, the एकमात्र प्रजाति in the genus lawsonia in the परिवार lythraceae.
The English name `` henna '' comes from the अरबी ( ala-lc : ḥinnāʾ / सुनाया ) or colloquially, loosely pronounced.
The name is also used for dye preparations निकला इससे the संयंत्र, और लिये the आर्ट of अस्थाई tattooing based on those dyes.
Henna has been used since antiquity to dye skin, बाल, और fingernails, as खूब as fabrics सहित रेशा, wool and leather.
Additionally, the name is misused for अन्य स्किन और बाल dyes, ऐसे as ब्लैक हिना or न्यूट्रल हिना, जिससे are not derived from the plant.
A thin film is a layer of सामग्री ranging इससे भिन्नों of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to several micrometers in thickness.
Electronic semiconductor devices and ऑप्टिकल coatings हैं the प्रमुख अनुप्रयोग benefiting from thin-film construction.
A familiar application of thin films is the household mirror, which typically रै a पतला मेटल कोटिंग on the वापस of a चादर of कांच to form a reflective interface.
The process of silvering थी एकबार commonly प्रयुक्त to produce mirrors.
A very-thin-film कोटिंग ( कम than a nanometer मोटा ) is प्रयुक्त to produce two-way mirrors.
The performance of optical coatings ( e.g. antireflective, or ar, coatings ) हैं typically उन्नत जब the thin-film कोटिंग consists of multiple layers having varying thicknesses and refractive indices.
Similarly, a periodic structure of प्रत्यावर्ती पतला films of अलग सामग्री may collectively रूप a so-called superlattice which exploits the phenomenon of quantum confinement by restricting electronic phenomena to two-dimensions.
Work is होने किया साथ ferromagnetic and ferroelectric thin films for use as computer memory.
It is also होने लागू to दवाएँ, via thin-film drug delivery.
Thin-films are used to उपज thin-film बैटरी.
Thin films are also used in dye-sensitized सौर cells.
Ceramic thin films हैं in चौड़ी use.
The relatively high hardness and inertness of ceramic materials make this type of thin coating of ब्याज लिये सुरक्षा of substrate सामग्री विरूद्ध संक्षारण, oxidation and wear.
In particular, the उपयोग of ऐसे coatings on कटिंग टूल्स can extend the life of these items by several orders of magnitude.
Research is being done on a new class of thin-film अकार्बनिक ऑक्साइड सामग्री, पुकारा amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent आक्साइड, which could be used to make transparent transistors that are inexpensive, stable, and environmentally benign.
Gears of War is a military science fiction third-person शूटर वीडियो खेल विकसित by एपिक खेल and published by Microsoft Game Studios.
It was initially released as an exclusive title for the Xbox 360 in November 2005 in North America, Australia, and सबसे of यूरोपीय और शामिल a `` सीमित कलेक्टर 's संस्करण '' साथ added सामग्री और an आर्ट किताब titled नष्ट सौंदर्य कि विस्तृत much of the खेल 's back-story.
Despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity, a Microsoft Windows version of the game was developed in conjunction with People Can Fly and released a year later, featuring नई सामग्री सहित अतिरिक्त अभियान स्तर, a नई एकाधिक खेल विधि, और खेल लिये Windows Live functionality.
The game focuses on the troops of Delta Squad as they wield a desperate, last-ditch attempt to save the remaining human निवासियों of the fictional ग्रह sera इससे a अथक और seemingly अजेय subterranean दुश्मन known as the Locust Horde.
The player assumes the role of मार्कस fenix ( लकिन can भी खेल as डोमिनिक सैंटियागो ), a पूर्व कैदी and war-hardened soldier.
The game is based on the उपयोग of कवर और रणनीतिक आग लिये the खिलाड़ी to अग्रिम through the scenarios ; a second player can play cooperatively through the main campaign to assist.
The game also सुविधाएँ अनेक ऑनलाइन एकाधिक खेल modes for up to eight players.
Gears of War sold over तीन लाख नक़ल in बस टेन सप्ताह और थी the fastest-selling वीडियो game of 2005 as well as the second-most played game over Xbox Live during.
It currently stands as the 5th best selling एक्सबॉक्स 360 खेल of सब समय.
The खेल रै चूंकि बेची over पाँच million copies by September 2008.
The game was well received by आलोचकों, जो praised इसके gameplay और विस्तृत visuals, और it जीती several `` Game of the Year '' awards in 2006.
The success of the game has led to the development of the Gears of War franchise, including the 2008 sequel Gears of War 2 and its follow-up, Gears of War 3, which was released on September 20, 2011, बाद having initially महरूम नियत to have महरूम released on अप्रैल 5, 2011, the तिथि upon जिससे एपिक खेल ' चट्टान bleszinski थी a अतिथि on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon.
adaptations to किताबे, कॉमिक्स, as खूब as a विशेषता film are to be expected.
A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is a 1943 अनोखा लिखा by बेट्टी स्मिथ.
The story focuses on an irish-american परिवार in williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York City.
The novel is set in the first और दूसरी दशकों of the 20th century.
The book was an immense कामयाबी.
The main metaphor of the किताब is the हार्डी पेड़ of स्वर्ग, देशी to चीन और ताईवान, अभी माना हृदयरोग, and common in the vacant lots of New York City.
World map साथ the intertropical मण्डल highlighted in red.
Tropical climate zones of the Earth where all बारह महीने have औसत temperatures ऊपर 18 °c ( 64 °f ).
The tropics is a region of the धरती surrounding the Equator.
It is limited in latitude by the Tropic of Cancer in the northern hemisphere at approximately N and the Tropic of मकर in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध at s ; ये latitudes correspond to the अक्षीय झुकाव of the धरती.
The tropics are भी referred to as the तीव्र मण्डल और the torrid zone ( see geographical zone ).
The tropics include all the areas on the Earth where the Sun reaches a point सीधे ओवरहेड at तनिक एकबार दौरान the सौर year.
The tropics are distinguished from the other climatic and biomatic regions of धरती, the मध्य latitudes और the ध्रुवीय regions on either side of the equatorial zone.
For the INXS song, देखिए कया तुम need ( सोंग ).
`` What You Need '' is an episode of the अमरीकी टेलीविज़न anthology श्रेणी The Twilight Zone.
It is based on the छोटी स्टोरी of the वही नाम by Lewis Padgett ( Henry Kuttner and C. L. Moore ).
PlayhouseSquare, in the Cleveland Theater District in downtown Cleveland, Ohio, is the second-largest थिएटर जटिल in the संयुक्त राज्य, दूसरी तभी to नई यॉर्क City 's Lincoln Center ).
Constructed in a span of 19 months in the जल्दी 1920s, the थिएटर यहूद subsequently closed down, but were revived through a grassroots effort.
Their renovation and reopening helped usher in a new era of शहर पुनरोद्धार in क्लीवलैंड, और थी पुकारा `` एक of the top ten successes in Cleveland history. ''
The ड्राइवर और यात्री सामने airbags, after having been deployed, in a British Peugeot 306 car.
An एयरबैग is a गाडी safety device.
It is an occupant restraint system consisting of a लचीली कपड़ा लिफाफा or cushion designed to inflate rapidly दौरान an automobile collision.
Its purpose is to cushion occupants दौरान a क्रैश और provide सुरक्षा to उनके लाशें जब they strike interior objects such as the steering wheel or a window.
Modern वाहनों may contain अनेक एयरबैग मौड्यूल in विभिन्न पक्ष और frontal स्थितियाँ of the यात्री seating स्थितियाँ, और सेंसर may तैनात एक or more airbags in an impact zone at variable rates based on the type, angle and severity of impact ; the airbag is designed to only inflate in moderate to severe frontal crashes.
Airbags are normally designed साथ the इरादे of supplementing the सुरक्षा of an occupant who is correctly restrained with a seatbelt.
Most डिजाइन हैं inflated through pyrotechnic means and can only be operated once.
Newer side-impact एयरबैग मौड्यूल consist of संपीडित एयर सिलेंडर कि हैं triggered in the event of a side impact vehicle impact.
The first वाणिज्यिक डिजाइन यहूद introduced in यात्री ऑटोमोबाइल दौरान the 1970s with limited success.
Broad commercial adoption of airbags occurred in many markets during the late 1980s and early 1990s with a ड्राइवर एयरबैग, और a सामने यात्री एयरबैग as खूब on कुछ cars ; and many modern vehicles now include four or more units.
IRS tax forms are used for taxpayers and tax-exempt संगठन to रपट वित्तीय सूचना to the आतंरिक आय सेवा ( IRS ) of the United States.
They are used to report आय, गणना कर to be सशुल्क to the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य, और ज़ाहिर other information as required by the Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ).
वहीँ हैं over 800 विभिन्न forms and schedules.
The best-known of these is रूप 1040 प्रयुक्त by individuals.
In the United States, driver 's licenses are issued by each individual state ( including Washington, D.C. and territories ), बल्कि than the संघीय सरकारी क्युकी of the राजनैतिक अवधारणा of संघवाद.
Drivers are normally required to obtain a license from their state of residence and all states recognize each अन्य 's पंक्तियां लिये अस्थाई विज़िटर विषय to सामान्य आयु आवश्यकताएँ.
A state may also suspend an individual 's ड्राइविंग विशेषाधिकार भीतर इसके सीमायें लिये ट्रैफ़िक violations.
Many states share a common system of license classes, with some exceptions, और वाणिज्यिक अनुज्ञा वर्ग हैं मानकीकृत by संघीय विनियमन at 49 CFR part 383.
China रै महरूम the सोर्स of अनेक आविष्कारों, सहित the चार ग्रेट आविष्कारों : papermaking, the compass, gunpowder, and printing ( both woodblock and movable type ).
The list below contains ये और अन्य आविष्कारों.
The Chinese invented technologies involving mechanics, hydraulics, और गणित लागू to horology, metallurgy, खगोलशास्त्र, agriculture, engineering, music theory, craftsmanship, nautics, and warfare.
By the Warring States Period ( 403–221 bc ), वे था उन्नत metallurgic प्रौद्योगिकी, सहित the blast furnace and cupola furnace, while the finery forge and puddling process were known by the Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 ).
A sophisticated economic system in चीन दिया जनम to आविष्कारों ऐसे as पेपर धन during the Song Dynasty ( 960–1279 ).
The invention of gunpowder by the 10th सदी led to an सरणी of आविष्कारों ऐसे as the आग तलवार, जमीन मेरा, नवल मेरा, हाथ तोपों, exploding गोलों, multistage rocket, and rocket bombs with aerodynamic wings and explosive payloads.
With the navigational aid of the 11th-century compass and ability to steer at ऊँची समुद्र साथ the 1st-century sternpost अरित्र, premodern चाइनीज sailors sailed as दूर as ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी और Egypt.
In water-powered clockworks, the premodern Chinese had used the escapement यांत्रिकी चूंकि the 8th सदी और the अंतहीन power-transmitting कड़ी ड्राइव in the 11th सदी.
They also बना विशाल mechanical कठपुतली थिएटर चलित by waterwheels and carriage wheels and wine-serving automatons driven by paddle wheel boats.
The contemporaneous Peiligang and Pengtoushan cultures represent the oldest पाषाणकालीन संस्कृतियों of चीन और यहूद formed around 7000 BC.
Some of the first inventions of Neolithic, prehistoric China include semilunar and rectangular stone knives, stone hoes and spades, the cultivation of millet, rice and the soybean, the refinement of sericulture, the भवन of rammed धरती structures साथ लाइम -plastered हाउस floors, the सृष्टि of the कुम्हार 's व्हील, the सृष्टि of pottery साथ cord-mat-basket डिजाइन, the creation of pottery tripods and pottery steamers, and the development of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of divination.
Francesca Bray argues that the domestication of the ox and buffalo during the Longshan culture ( c. 3000–c. 2000 BC ) period, the absence of Longshan-era irrigation or high-yield crops, पूरा प्रमाण of longshan cultivation of dry-land खाद्यान्न फसलों जिससे दिया ऊँची yields `` तभी जब the मृदा थी carefully cultivated, '' सुझाएँ कि the हल थी ज्ञात at तनिक by the longshan संस्कृति period and explains the high agricultural production yields which allowed the rise of Chinese civilization during the Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c. 1050 BC ).
With later inventions ऐसे as the multiple-tube बीज ड्रिल और भारी moldboard iron plow, China 's agricultural output could sustain a much larger population.
For the purposes of this list, inventions are regarded as technological firsts developed in चीन, और as ऐसे करता नहीं शामिल विदेशी technologies जिससे the चाइनीज acquired through सम्पर्क, ऐसे as the पवनचक्की इससे the मध्य ईस्ट or the दूरदर्शी इससे Early modern Europe.
It also does not include technologies developed elsewhere and later invented separately by the चाइनीज, ऐसे as the ओडोमीटर and chain pump.
Scientific, mathematic or प्राकृतिक discoveries, परिवर्तन in नाबालिग अवधारणाओं of डिज़ाइन or स्टाइल और कलाकारी innovations can not be regarded as inventions and do not appear on the list.
Gross domestic product in 2011 US dollars per capita, adjusted for inflation and purchasing power parity ( log scale ) from 1860 to 2011, साथ जनसांख्यिकी ( डिस्क क्षेत्रफल ) लिये the us ( पीला ), uk ( नारंगी ), जापानी ( रेड ), चीन ( रेड ), और इण्डिया ( blue ).
Globalization ( or globalisation—see स्पेलिंग मतभेद ) is the प्रक्रम of अंतरराष्ट्रीय संयोजन arising from the interchange of world views, products, ideas, and other aspects of culture.
Put in simple terms, वैश्वीकरण refers to प्रक्रियाओं कि प्रचार world-wide exchanges of national and cultural resources.
Advances in परिवहन और दूरसंचार अवसंरचना, सहित the वृद्धि of the अंतरजाल, हैं प्रमुख factors in globalization, generating further interdependence of economic and cultural activities.
हालांकि अनेक विद्वानों प्लेस the origins of वैश्वीकरण in आधुनिक टाइम्स, अन्य ट्रेस इसके इतिहास long पहले the European age of discovery and voyages to the New World.
Some even trace the origins to the तीसरा मिलेनियम BCE.
Since the beginning of the 20th century, the pace of वैश्वीकरण रै intensified at a रैपिड रेट, विशेषकर दौरान the पोस्ट ठंडा युद्ध era.
The term वैश्वीकरण रै महरूम in increasing उपयोग चूंकि the mid-1980s and especially since the mid-1990s.
In 2000, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक निधि ( imf ) पहचाना चार मौलिक पहलुओं of globalization : trade and transactions, capital and investment movements, migration and movement of people and the dissemination of knowledge.
Further, environmental चुनौतियां ऐसे as जलवायु बदलें, cross-boundary जल और एयर प्रदूषण, and over-fishing of the ocean are linked with globalization.
Globalizing प्रक्रियाओं affect और हैं प्रभावित by कारोबार और कार्य संगठन, economics, socio-cultural resources, and the natural environment.
The Replacements is a 2000 American खेल कॉमेडी फिल्मी निर्देशित by हावर्ड Deutch.
It stars कियानू रीव्स, जीन hackman, और Brooke Langton.
An American Airlines aircraft takes off इससे dallas/fort लायक अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport.
This विमानक्षेत्र is the एयरलाइन 's largest hub.
American Airlines flies to 79 domestic destinations and 78 अंतरराष्ट्रीय गंतव्यों in 48 countries.
( as of दिसम्बर 2012 )
The list includes the city, country, the codes of the International Air हस्तांतरण संघ ( iata विमानक्षेत्र कोड ) और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सिविल विमानन Organization ( ICAO airport code ), and the airport 's name, with the airline 's hubs, focus cities and seasonal destinations marked.
The list also contains destinations no longer served by the एयरलाइन, जिससे हैं चिह्नित as terminated destinations.
It does not include destinations served for American Airlines by its regional affiliates American त्रिभुज एयरलाइंस, कार्यपालिका एयरलाइंस, और americanconnection.
`` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) '' is a traditional Jamaican mento folk song, the best-known संस्करण of जिससे थी सुंग by हैरी belafonte और an वैकल्पिक संस्करण interspersed साथ another Jamaican folksong, Hill and Gully Rider, by Dame Shirley Bassey.
Despite the song 's mento influences, `` day-o ( the banana नाव सोंग ) '' is widely ज्ञात as an उदाहरण of कैलिप्सो music.
It is a work song, from the पाइंट of दृश्य of डॉक मजदूर working the night shift loading bananas onto ships.
Daylight has come, the shift is over and वे want उनके कार्य to be गिने up so कि वे can go home.
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939, और the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम, फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies, और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और बुल्गारिया the Central Powers.
Ultimately, अधिक than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों, सहित 60 लाख europeans, यहूद mobilised in one of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in सुरक्षा or गतिशीलता.
It was the fifth- deadliest विरोध in संसार इतिहास, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन, such as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the great powers of Europe.
More immediately, the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया, the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and, via उनके colonies, the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the संसार.
On 28 July, the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण of सर्बिया.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded neutral बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of युद्ध against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर कि बदला छोटी until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, लकिन थी रोका in इसके आक्रमण of ईस्ट prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to युद्ध in 1915 और रोमानिया in 1916.
In Russia, the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the पश्चिमी सामने, the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own trouble साथ क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
the युद्ध ended in victory for the Allies.
कार्यक्रम on the घर fronts यहूद as उग्र as on the battle fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the समाप्त of the युद्ध, चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the German, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor states of the former दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory, जबकि the latter two were dismantled entirely.
the मैप of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into several smaller states.
The League of Nations was formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires, the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing to संसार War II.
Nurse Jackie is an American श्रेणी कि premiered on जून 8, 2009, on showtime, फिल्म सेंट्रल और The Movie Network.
The series stars Edie Falco as the title character जैकी peyton, an आपात विभाग नर्स at सब संतो ' हॉस्पिटल in New York City.
For जैकी, `` प्रत्येक दिन is a ऊँची तार अधिनियम of juggling मरीजों, doctors, fellow nurses and her own indiscretions. ''
Keeping Up with the kardashians ( प्रायः referred to बस as the kardashians ) is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता television series that premiered on October 14, 2007, on E !.
it फ़ॉलो the जीवनदान of the kardashian/jenner family, including sisters Kourtney, Kim, and Khloé Kardashian.
The series ' कामयाबी रै led to the spin-offs कोर्टनी और किम लो New York, Khloé & Lamar, Kourtney and Khloé Take Miami, and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami.
Afghanistan ( ; ; ), officially the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, is a landlocked sovereign राज्य forming भाग of दक्षिण एशिया, सेंट्रल एशिया, और to कुछ extent पश्चिमी एशिया.
It has a population of around 30 million inhabiting an area of approximately, बनाना it the 42nd सबसे populous और 41st largest स्वदेश in the संसार.
It is bordered by पाकिस्तानी in the दक्षिण और the ईस्ट, इरान in the वेस्ट, तुर्कमेनिस्तान, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan in the north, and China in the far northeast.
Afghanistan has महरूम an प्राचीन फोकल पाइंट of the रेशा Road and human migration.
Archaeologists have found evidence of इंसान habitation इससे as दूर वापस as the मध्य paleolithic.
Urban सभ्यता may have begun in the क्षेत्रफल as जल्दी as 3,000 to 2,000 BCE.
बैठे at an महत्वपूर्ण geostrategic स्थान कि connects the मध्य ईस्ट संस्कृति साथ सेंट्रल एशिया और the Indian subcontinent, the land has been home to various peoples through the ages and witnessed many military campaigns, notably by Alexander the Great, Genghis Khan, and in modern era Western forces.
The land also served as a source from which the Greco-Bactrians, Kushans, Hephthalites, saffarids, ghaznavids, ghorids, khiljis, timurids, मुगलों, durranis, और others have risen to form major empires.
The political history of the modern state of अफगानिस्तान begins in 1709, जब the hotaki राजवंश थी established in Kandahar followed by Ahmad Shah Durrani 's rise to power in 1747.
In the late 19th century, Afghanistan became a बफ़र राज्य in the `` ग्रेट खेल `` between the अंग्रेजों और Russian empires.
Following the 1919 Anglo-Afghan War, King अमानुल्ला began a यूरोपीय स्टाइल modernization of the देश but was stopped by the ultra-conservatives.
During the Cold War, बाद the वापसी of the अंग्रेजों इससे neighboring इण्डिया in 1947, the संयुक्त राज्य और the सोवियत संघ began spreading influences in Afghanistan, which led to a bloody war between the US-backed mujahideen forces and the Soviet-backed Afghan government in which over a million Afghans lost their lives.
This was followed by the 1990s civil war, the rise and fall of the extremist तालिबान सरकारी और the 2001–present war.
In December 2001, the United Nations Security Council authorized the creation of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा सहायता फ़ोर्स ( isaf ) to सहायता maintain सुरक्षा in अफगानिस्तान and assist the Karzai administration.
Three decades of war made अफगानिस्तान एक of the संसार 's सबसे खतरनाक देशों, सहित the largest producer of refugees and asylum seekers.
While the international community is rebuilding war-torn Afghanistan, terrorist groups such as the Haqqani Network and Hezbi Islami are actively involved in a देशभर तालिबान -led उग्रवाद, जिससे शामिल सैंकड़ों of assassinations और आत्महत्या हमले.
according to the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, the insurgents यहूद जिम्मेदार for 80 % of civilian casualties in 2011 and 2012.
The American Civil War ( ACW ), भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ), थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ).
The war had its origin in the issue of गुलामी, विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories.
विदेशी शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene.
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना, the confederacy collapsed, गुलामी was abolished, and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began.
In the 1860 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, republicans, led by अब्राहम lincoln, opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories.
lincoln जीती, लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4, 1861, सात cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy.
Outgoing Democratic अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal.
Lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता not initiate civil war.
Eight बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी to अस्वीकृत calls for secession.
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts भीतर territory claimed by the Confederacy.
A Peace Conference विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह, और both sides prepared for war.
The confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America.
Hostilities began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter, a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों in South Carolina.
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; नतीजतन, चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy, bringing उनके कुल to eleven.
The Union soon controlled the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the southern economy.
The Eastern थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62.
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of Antietam, dissuading British intervention.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation उदघोषणा, जिससे बना समाप्ति slavery a war goal.
To the west, by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate नदी नेवी, तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना, और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in two at the Mississippi River.
In 1863, Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of gettysburg.
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant कमांड of सब संघ सेना in 1864.
In the Western Theater, William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the समुद्र, destroying confederate अवसंरचना along the way.
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions, and could afford to fight लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards रिचमंड, the confederate पूंजी.
The defending Confederate army failed, अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत हाउस on April 9, 1865.
The अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध थी एक of the earliest true industrial wars.
Railroads, the टेलीग्राफ, steamships, और mass-produced weapons were employed extensively.
The mobilization of civilian कारखानों, खानों, shipyards, बैंको, परिवहन और food supplies all foreshadowed World War I.
It remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी इतिहास, resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined number of civilian casualties.
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा, और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged 18–40.
Cost of goods बेची ( cogs ) refer to the inventory लागत of those goods a कारोबार has sold during a particular period.
Costs are संबद्ध साथ particular goods using एक of अनेक formulas, सहित विशिष्ट पहचान, first-in first-out ( FIFO ), or average cost.
Costs include all costs of purchase, costs of conversion and other लागत incurred in bringing the inventories to उनके उपस्थित स्थान और कंडीशन.
लागत of goods बना by the कारोबार शामिल material, labor, and allocated overhead.
The costs of those goods not yet sold are deferred as लागत of inventory जबतक the inventory is बेची or written down in value.
freak Lunchbox candy store in Halifax, Nova Scotia
A confectionery store ( more commonly referred to as a sweet shop in the संयुक्त किंगडम, a कैंडी स्टोर in the उत्तर अमेरिका, or a lolly दूकान in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ) sells confectionery and is usually targeted to children.
Most confectionery stores are भर साथ an assortment of मिठाई दूर larger than a पंसारी or convenience store could accommodate.
वे प्रायः प्रस्ताव a चयन of बूढ़ा fashioned treats, and sweets from different countries.
Very often unchanged in लेआउट चूंकि उनके inception, confectioneries हैं ज्ञात for their warming and nostalgic feel.
The village of pateley सेतु दावा to have the oldest confectionery store in England.
The oldest मीठी दूकान in इंग्लैण्ड, in the गाँव of Pateley Bridge
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa, Cayuga : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in वेस्ट दक्षिण Central United States.
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive और the 28th सबसे populous of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य.
The state 's name is निकला इससे the choctaw शब्द okla और humma, meaning `` red people '', and it is known informally by its nickname, The Sooner State.
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and भारतीय territory on नवम्बर 16, 1907, ओक्लाहोमा was the 46th state to enter the union.
इसके निवासियों हैं ज्ञात as oklahomans or, informally `` okies '', and its capital and largest city is Oklahoma City.
A major producer of natural gas, oil, and कृषि, ओक्लाहोमा relies on an आर्थिक आधार of विमानन, उर्जा, दूरसंचार, and biotechnology.
It has one of the तीव्रतम growing economies in the स्वदेश, रैंकिंग among the शीर्ष states in per capita income growth and gross domestic product growth.
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's प्राथमिक आर्थिक anchors, साथ nearly दो तिहाई of oklahomans जीना भीतर उनके महानगर statistical areas.
With small mountain ranges, prairie, mesas, and पूर्वी वनों, सबसे of ओक्लाहोमा झूठ in the ग्रेट मैदान और the u.s. आंतरिक Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather.
In addition to having a prevalence of English, German, Scottish, Irish and Native American ancestry, more than 25 देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं हैं बोला in Oklahoma, second only to California.
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions and historically परोसा as a रूट लिये चौपायों ड्राइव, a गंतव्य लिये southern settlers, and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans.
Stacked and खड़ा car टायर
A tire ( or tyre ) is a ring-shaped covering कि fits around a व्हील 's rim to protect it and enable better vehicle performance.
Most tires, such as those for automobiles and bicycles, provide traction between the vehicle and the road while providing a लचीली cushion कि absorbs शॉक.
The materials of modern pneumatic tires are synthetic rubber, natural rubber, fabric and wire, along साथ कार्बन ब्लैक और अन्य रासायनिक compounds.
They consist of a tread और a body.
The tread provides कर्षण जबकि the देह provides containment for a quantity of compressed air.
Before rubber was developed, the first versions of टायर यहूद बस bands of मेटल कि fitted around लकड़ी पहियों to prevent wear and tear.
Early रबर टायर यहूद ठोस ( नहीं न्यूमेटिक ).
Today, the majority of tires are pneumatic inflatable structures, comprising a doughnut-shaped देह of रस्सियाँ और wires encased in रबर और generally filled with compressed air to form an inflatable cushion.
Pneumatic tires are used on many प्रकार of वाहनों, सहित गाड़ियाँ, साइकिल, मोटरसाइकिल, trucks, earthmovers, and aircraft.
Metal tires are still used on locomotives और railcars, और ठोस रबर ( or अन्य पॉलिमर ) टायर हैं स्टिल प्रयुक्त in various non-automotive applications, such as some casters, carts, lawnmowers, and wheelbarrows.
Dr. Joseph Warren ( June 11, 1741 – June 17, 1775 ) was an American doctor who played a अग्रणी भूमिका in अमरीकी patriot संगठन in बोस्टन in जल्दी दिनों of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति, आखिरकार सेवारत as अध्यक्ष of the क्रांतिकारी मैसाचुसेट्स Provincial Congress.
Warren आयोजिक पॉल आदर और विलियम dawes on अप्रैल 18, 1775, to छोड़ बोस्टन और spread the alarm that the British garrison in Boston was setting out to raid the town of Concord and arrest rebel leaders John Hancock and Samuel Adams.
Warren participated in the next day 's Battles of Lexington and Concord, जिससे हैं commonly माना to be the खोलने engagements of the American Revolutionary War.
Warren था महरूम commissioned a प्रमुख सामान्य in the उपनिवेश 's मिलिशिया shortly before the June 17, 1775 Battle of Bunker Hill.
Rather than exercising his rank, Warren served in the battle as a private सिपाही, और थी मारे in कॉम्बैट जब अंग्रेजों सैनिकों stormed the redoubt atop Breed 's Hill.
His death, immortalized in John Trumbull 's पेंटिंग, the मौत of सामान्य वारेन at the बैटल of बंकर 's हिल, जून 17, 1775, जस्ती the विद्रोही शक्तियां, और he has been memorialized in many place names in the United States.
STM image of self-assembled supramolecular जंजीरों of the सशुल्क semiconductor Quinacridone on Graphite.
An organic सेमीकंडक्टर is an सशुल्क सामग्री साथ सेमीकंडक्टर गुण, कि is, with an electrical conductivity between that of insulators and that of metals.
Single molecules, short chain ( oligomers ) और सशुल्क polymers can be semiconductive.
Semiconducting small अणुओं ( खुशबूदार hydrocarbons ) शामिल the polycyclic खुशबूदार compounds pentacene, anthracene, and rubrene.
Polymeric सशुल्क semiconductors शामिल बहु ( 3-hexylthiophene ), बहु ( p-phenylene vinylene ), as well as polyacetylene and its derivatives.
There are दो प्रमुख अतिव्यापी वर्ग of सशुल्क semiconductors.
These are organic charge-transfer complexes and various linear-backbone conductive polymers निकला इससे polyacetylene.
रैखिक रीढ़ सशुल्क semiconductors शामिल polyacetylene itself and its derivatives polypyrrole, and polyaniline.
At least locally, charge-transfer देवालय प्रायः प्रदर्शनी समान conduction mechanisms to inorganic semiconductors.
Such mechanisms उठता इससे the उपस्थिति of छेद और इलेक्ट्रॉन conduction layers separated by a band gap.
While such classic mechanisms are important locally, as with inorganic amorphous semiconductors, tunnelling, localized states, गतिशीलता गैप, और phonon -assisted hopping भी significantly योगदान to conduction, विशेषकर in polyacetylenes.
Like अकार्बनिक semiconductors, सशुल्क semiconductors can be doped.
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping ऐसे as polyaniline ( ormecon ) और हैं भी ज्ञात as organic metals.
Typical current carriers in सशुल्क semiconductors हैं छेद और electrons in π-bonds.
Almost all सशुल्क solids हैं insulators.
But when their constituent molecules have π-conjugate प्रणालियों, electrons can मूव via π-electron बादल overlaps, especially by hopping, tunnelling and related mechanisms.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and phthalocyanine नमक crystals हैं उदाहरण of इस प्रकार of सशुल्क semiconductor.
Mainly due to कम गतिशीलता, भी unpaired electrons may be stable in charge-transfer complexes.
Such unpaired electrons can फलन as current carriers.
This type of सेमीकंडक्टर is भी प्राप्त by pairing an इलेक्ट्रॉन दाता अणु with an electron acceptor molecule.
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females from the paraurethral नलिकाएं through और around the female urethra during or before an orgasm.
It is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting, although these are considered to be अलग phenomena in कुछ शोध publications.
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of debate among medical पेशेवर, जिससे is भी सम्बन्धित to संदेह over the existence of the G-Spot.
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the वरिष्ठ महिलाओं 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ), the sport 's global governing body.
The championship has been awarded प्रत्येक चार सालो चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1991.
जापानी जीती the 2011 टूर्नामेंट in a penalty shootout.
The current format of the tournament involves 16 teams competing for the title at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय तीन सप्ताह ; – इस phase is प्रायः पुकारा the संसार Cup Finals.
A qualification phase, which फिलहाल takes प्लेस over the preceding तीन सालो, is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट together with the host nation ( s ).
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is recognized as the most important International प्रतियोगिता in महिलाओं 's फ़ुटबॉल और is निभाई amongst महिलाओं 's नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल टीमों of the सदस्य states of FIFA, the sport 's global governing body.
The first महिलाओं 's संसार कप टूर्नामेंट, नामित the महिलाओं 's संसार चैंपियनशिप, थी आयोजित in 1991, sixty-one years after the men 's first FIFA World Cup tournament in 1930.
The six World Cup tournaments have महरूम जीती by चार अलग national teams.
The next World कप होगा be hosted by कनाडा in 2015.
Scorpions is a young adult novel written by Walter Dean Myers, पहला प्रकाशित in the संयुक्त राज्य by हार्पर & पंक्ति on जून 20, 1988.
Front page of a 17th century Hebrew बाइबल by जोसेफ athias, अभी at बेथ hatefutsoth, Israel
'Son of man ' is the अनुवाद of विभिन्न यहूदी और यूनानी वाक्यांश used in both the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament.
It has diverse meanings, ranging इससे a सामान्य इंसान होने to a prophesied eternal, divine ruler.
The Hebrew अभिव्यक्ति `` बेटे of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e. ben-'adam ) appears one hundred and seven times in the Hebrew Bible.
इस is the सबसे आम यहूदी निर्माण for the singular but is used mostly in Ezekiel ( 93 times ) and 14 times elsewhere.
In thirty two cases the phrase appears in intermediate plural form `` बेटे of मेन '', i.e. इंसान beings.
As generally interpreted by Jews, it denotes humankind generally.
In the Koine Greek of the New Testament, `` the son of man '' is invariably प्रयुक्त as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article.
The use of the definite article in `` the son of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is अनोखा, और पहले इसके उपयोग वहीँ, no रिकॉर्ड of इसके उपयोग in कोई of the surviving Greek documents of antiquity exist.
Geza Vermes has stated कि `` the बेटे of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is unrelated to Hebrew Bible usages.
In Christian usage, unlike the Son of God title, which has been an essential element of ईसाई creeds चूंकि the अपोस्टोलिक आयु, the उदघोषणा of `` यीशु as the बेटे of man '' रै never महरूम an article of faith in Christianity.
The निर्वचन of the उपयोग of `` the बेटे of man '' in the नई वसीयत रै remained चुनौतीपूर्ण और बाद 150 years of debate no consensus on the issue has emerged among scholars.
निपुण of foxhounds लीड the फ़ील्ड इससे powderham किला in देवों, इंग्लैण्ड, with the hounds in front.
Fox hunting is an activity involving the tracking, chase, and sometimes killing of a fox, traditionally a red fox, by प्रशिक्षित foxhounds or अन्य सैंट hounds, और a समूह of निहत्थे अनुसरणकर्ता led by a निपुण of foxhounds, जो follow the hounds on foot or on horseback.
Fox शिकार originated in the रूप practised जबतक recently in the संयुक्त किंगडम in the 16th century, but is practised all over the world, including in Australia, Canada, France, Ireland, Italy and the United States.
In Australia, the term also refers to the शिकार of foxes with firearms similar to spotlighting or deer hunting.
In much of the world hunting in general is understood to relate to any game animals or weapons ( e.g., deer hunting with धनुष और तीर ) ; in ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड, `` शिकार '' बगैर योग्यता implies फॉक्स शिकार ( or अन्य फ़ॉर्म of शिकार साथ हाउंडs- beagling, स्टैग hunting, mink hunting, drag hunting or hunting the clean boot ) as described here.
The sport is controversial, particularly in the uk, जहाँ it थी बैन in स्कॉटलैंड in 2002, और in इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स in नवम्बर 2004 ( विधि enforced from February 2005 ), though shooting foxes as vermin remained legal.
Proponents of fox hunting view it as an important part of rural culture and useful for reasons of conservation and pest कंट्रोल, जबकि प्रतिद्वंद्वियों argue कि it is बेदर्द और अनावश्यक.
Tobacco advertising is the advertising of tobacco products or use ( typically सिगरेट धूम्रपान ) by the तम्बाकू industry through a variety of media including sponsorship, particularly of sporting events.
It is अभी एक of the सबसे highly regulated forms of marketing.
Some or all forms of tobacco विज्ञापन हैं banned in many countries.
Bally Technologies, Inc. is a निर्माता of स्लॉट मशीने और अन्य गेमिंग प्रौद्योगिकी आधारित in Las Vegas, Nevada.
The company was संस्थापित in 1968 as उन्नत पेटेंट Technology.
It eventually changed its name to Alliance गेमिंग और acquired, in 1996, बल्ली गेमिंग अंतरराष्ट्रीय, a former division of Bally Manufacturing.
In 2006, the entire company अपनाया the बल्ली नाम, a ट्रेडमार्क that originated in 1932 by the Bally Manufacturing Corporation.
Gustave doré 's engravings illustrated the दैवी कॉमेडी ( 1861–1868 ) ; here, Dante is lost in Canto 1 of the Inferno.
Inferno ( Italian for `` Hell `` ) is the पहला भाग of दांते एलीगियरी 's 14th-century एपिक कविता Divine Comedy.
It is followed by purgatorio और Paradiso.
It is an allegory telling of the journey of Dante through नरक, हिदायत by the रोमन कवि Virgil.
In the poem, Hell is चित्रित as नौ वृत्त of कष्ट स्तिथ भीतर the Earth.
Allegorically, the Divine Comedy represents the यात्रा of the आत्मा towards परमेश्वर, साथ the inferno describing the recognition and rejection of sin.
Smirnoff is a ब्रांड of वोदका स्वामित्व और उत्पादित by the British company Diageo.
The Smirnoff brand began with a vodka distillery संस्थापित in मास्को by pyotr arsenievich smirnov ( 1831–1898 ).
It is अभी वितरित in 130 countries.
It is उत्पादित in अनेक देशों सहित इण्डिया, आयरलैंड, Italy, the United Kingdom and the United States.
Smirnoff products include vodka, flavoured वोदका, और malt पेय.
In March 2006, diageo उत्तर अमेरिका claimed कि स्मरनॉफ वोदका थी the best-selling distilled spirit brand in the world.
Big भूरा ( foaled अप्रैल 10, 2005 in केंटकी ) is a रिटायर्ड चैंपियन American Thoroughbred racehorse and winner of the 2008 Kentucky Derby and 2008 Preakness Stakes.
Bred by Dr. गेरी B. नैप 's monticule खेतो in lexington, Kentucky, he won his first five race starts.
He was sired by Grade III विजेता boundary, a बेटे of उत्तर अमरीकी चैंपियन sire danzig, a son of Northern Dancer.
Big Brown 's dam was Mien, भी a पोती of उत्तरी नर्तकी through उसके sire, Nureyev.
The Serenity Prayer is the common name for an originally बेनाम दुआ by the अमरीकी theologian Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ).
It has been adopted by Alcoholics बेनाम और अन्य twelve-step कार्यक्रम.
The best-known रूप is : परमेश्वर, ग्रान्ट me the serenity to accept the things I can not change,
The हिम्मत to बदलें the things I can,
And अक्ल to जान the difference.
The Declaration and Resolves of the First Continental Congress ( also known as the Declaration of Colonial Rights, or the Declaration of Rights ), was a statement adopted by the पहला महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on अक्तूबर 14, 1774, in जवाब to the असहनीय Acts passed by the British Parliament.
The Declaration outlined औपनिवेशिक आपत्ति to the असहनीय अधिनियमों, सूचीबद्ध a औपनिवेशिक bill of rights, and provided a detailed list of grievances.
It थी समान to the घोषणा of अधिकारों and Grievances, passed by the Stamp Act Congress a decade earlier.
The Declaration concluded with an outline of Congress 's plans : to enter into a boycott of British trade ( the महाद्वीपीय संघ ) जबतक उनके grievances यहूद redressed, to publish addresses to the people of Great Britain and British America, and to send a petition to the King.
पल्स दबाव is the दबाव that is felt when feeling the pulse.
Measured in millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ), the pressure difference between the systolic and diastolic pressures is the दबाव बदलें to बनाएँ the पल्स, जिससे is the पल्स दबाव.
If resting blood pressure is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of पारा ( mmhg ), pulse pressure is 40.
The Hills is a reality television series which originally aired on एमटीवी इससे may 31, 2006 जबतक जुलाई 13, 2010.
The दिखाएँ उपयोग a वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न स्वरूप, following the निजी जीवनदान of अनेक यंग वयस्कों जीना in लॉस एंजिल्स, California, but tends towards a narrative format more commonly found in scripted genres such as soap operas.
The series originally followed the personal life of पूर्व लगुना बीच स्टार लॉरेन कोनराड और उसके मित्रों ' नई जीवनदान in लॉस एंजिल्स.
After five seasons, Conrad left the series and was replaced by another former लगुना बीच स्टार, kristin cavallari, शुरूआत in the दूसरी हाफ of the पांचवां season.
The श्रेणी concluded at the end of the sixth season.
Entertainment साप्ताहिक क्रमित the पहाड़ियाँ 82nd on उनके सूची of `` The 100 Best Shows of the Last 25 Years, '' stating that the series was a `` New Classic. ''
एओएल tv पुकारा it TV 's Biggest Guilty Pleasure.
The series premiered in syndication in the fall of 2009 alongside लगुना बीच : the रियल नारंगी County.
In poker, bad beat is a subjective term for a hand in जिससे a खिलाड़ी साथ कया appear to be दमदार ताश nevertheless loses.
It most often occurs where one player bets the clearly stronger हाथ और उनके प्रतिद्वन्दी makes a ग़रीब कॉल कि आखिरकार `` हिट्स '' और wins.
There is no सर्वसम्मति among पोकर खिलाड़ी as to कया exactly constitutes a bad beat and often players will disagree about whether a particular hand was a bad beat.
The goldfish ( Carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater मछली in the परिवार cyprinidae of अनुक्रम cypriniformes.
It was one of the earliest fish to be domesticated, और is एक of the सबसे commonly रखा एक्वेरियम fish.
A relatively small member of the carp family ( which also includes the koi carp and the crucian carp ), the goldfish is a domesticated संस्करण of a less-colorful कार्प ( carassius auratus ) देशी to east Asia.
It was first domesticated in China more than a हजार सालो पहले, और अनेक पृथक breeds have चूंकि been developed.
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in size, body shape, fin configuration and coloration ( various combinations of white, पीला, नारंगी, रेड, भूरा, and black are known ).
uncooked rouladen
Rouladen ( or Rinderroulade, singular : roulade ) is a जर्मनी मांस roulade प्रायः consisting of बेकन, प्याज, सरसों और pickles wrapped in thinly sliced beef which is then cooked.
In कुछ देशों, the roulade is भी ज्ञात as `` बीफ ज़ैतून ''.
Beef or veal is used as meat though some food scholars tend to believe that the original संस्करण थी संभवतः venison or पोर्क, और पोर्क is स्टिल popular in some areas.
The beef rouladen as we know उन्हें आज have become लोकप्रिय over the last century.
the काटें is प्रायः topside beef or silverside since this is the cheaper cut.
The more महंगी संस्करण होता be the round steak, also known as rump steak.
The meat is cut into विशाल, पतला स्लाइस.
The filling is a mixture of smoked and cooked pork belly, chopped onions and chopped pickles ( gurken ) which is at टाइम्स varied by adding minced मांस, सॉसेज मांस, pine nuts and mustard.
The मिश्रण varies from region to region.
Rouladen are traditionally परोसा लिये dinner.
Red वाइन is प्रायः served with this dish.
Typical eukaryotic कोशिका.
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रक्रियाओं कि लो प्लेस in the कोशिकाएं of जीवों to बदलें biochemical उर्जा इससे nutrients into एडीनोसिन triphosphate ( ATP ), and then release waste products.
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, which break विशाल अणुओं into छोटी ones, releasing उर्जा in the प्रक्रम as कमजोर so-called `` high-energy '' bonds हैं replaced by stronger bonds in the products.
Respiration is one of the कुंजी तरीके a कोशिका gains उपयोगी उर्जा to fuel cellular activity.
सेल्यूलर श्वसन is माना an exothermic redox reaction.
The overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs in the देह, सबसे of जिससे हैं रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रियाएँ themselves.
Although technically, cellular श्वसन is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया, it clearly करता नहीं resemble एक when it occurs in a living cell.
This अंतर is क्युकी it occurs in many separate steps.
While the overall reaction is a combustion reaction, no single प्रतिक्रिया कि comprises it is a दहन reaction.
Nutrients that are commonly प्रयुक्त by एनिमल और संयंत्र कोशिकाएं in श्वसन शामिल शुगर, अमीनो acids and fatty acids, and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ).
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form, thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy, including biosynthesis, locomotion or transportation of अणुओं आरपार कोशिका झिल्लियों.
Countries by 2011 जीडीपी ( नाममात्र ) according to the CIA World Factbook.
This article includes a list of countries in the world sorted by उनके सकल घरेलू उत्पाद ( जीडीपी ), the मार्केट मान of सब फाइनल goods and services from a nation in a given year.
The GDP dollar estimates प्रस्तुत यहाँ हैं गणना at मार्केट or सरकारी official exchange rates.
Several economies which are not माना to be देशों ( संसार, the eu, and some dependent territories ) are included in the lists because they appear in the sources.
These economies are नहीं क्रमित in the चार्ट यहाँ, लकिन are listed where applicable.
The figures presented here do not take into account differences in the cost of living in different countries, and the परिणाम can vary greatly इससे एक साल to another आधारित on fluctuations in the एक्सचेंज दरों of the देश 's currency.
Such fluctuations may बदलें a देश 's रैंकिंग इससे एक साल to the अगला, भी हालांकि वे often make little or no difference to the standard of living of its population.
Therefore ये आंकड़े चाहिए be प्रयुक्त with caution.
कुछ countries/regions may have citizens which are on average wealthy.
These countries/regions could appear in इस सूची as having a small GDP.
This होता be क्युकी the country/region सूचीबद्ध रै a छोटी जनसांख्यिकी, and therefore small total economy ; the GDP is calculated as the population times the wealth per capita.
Comparisons of national wealth are also frequently बना on the आधार of खरीदना शक्ति पैरिटी ( ppp ), to समायोजन लिये मतभेद in the cost of living in different countries.
( See List of countries by जीडीपी ( ppp ) )
PPP largely removes the exchange rate problem, but has its own drawbacks ; it does not प्रतिबिंबित the मान of आर्थिक आउटपुट in अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार, और it भी requires more estimation than nominal GDP.
On the whole, PPP per capita आंकड़े हैं अधिक narrowly spread than nominal GDP per capita figures.
The first list शामिल आंकड़ा compiled by the संयुक्त Nations Statistics Division for 2011.
The second list largely includes data ( अनुमान ) compiled by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक Fund for 2012.
The third list shows the World Bank 's mostly 2011 estimates, and the fourth list शामिल ज़्यादातर 2012 estimates इससे the सीआईए संसार factbook.
Lapping is a machining process, in जिससे दो सतहों हैं मला साथ साथ an अक्खड़ between उन्हें, by हाथ movement or by way of a machine.
This can लो दो फ़ॉर्म.
The first type of lapping ( traditionally called grinding ), typically involves rubbing a भंगुर सामग्री ऐसे as कांच विरूद्ध a सतह ऐसे as आयरन or कांच itself ( भी ज्ञात as the `` गोद '' or पीस औजार ) with an abrasive such as aluminum oxide, jeweller 's rouge, optician 's rouge, emery, silicon carbide, diamond, etc., in between them.
This produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the अक्खड़ रोल्स परिचय between the दो सतहों and removes material from both.
The other form of lapping involves a softer सामग्री ऐसे as पिच or a सिरेमिक लिये the lap, which is `` charged '' with the abrasive.
The lap is then प्रयुक्त to काटें a harder material—the workpiece.
The abrasive embeds within the softer सामग्री जिससे holds it और permits it to स्कोर across and cut the harder material.
Taken to a महीन सीमा, इस होगा उपज a polished सतह ऐसे as साथ a पॉलिशिंग cloth on an ऑटोमोबाइल, or a polishing cloth or polishing pitch upon glass or steel.
Taken to the ultimate limit, with the aid of सटीक interferometry और specialized पॉलिशिंग मशीने or skilled हाथ पॉलिशिंग, lensmakers can produce surfaces that are flat to better than 30 nanometers.
This is one twentieth of the wavelength of light इससे the commonly प्रयुक्त 632.8 nm हीलियम नियॉन लेज़र लाइट source.
Surfaces this flat can be molecularly bonded ( optically contacted ) by bringing उन्हें साथ अंतर्गत the right conditions.
( This is not the same as the wringing प्रभाव of जोहानसन ब्लॉक, although it is similar ).
The term `` America 's टोली '' is a लोकप्रिय उपनाम in the संयुक्त States that refers to the Dallas Cowboys in the National Football League.
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978 highlight film, where the narrator opens साथ the following परिचय : the पद is पहचाना और प्रायः used by media outlets, including ESPN, Yahoo !, HBO Sports, and Sports Illustrated.
My Babysitter 's a Vampire ( French : Ma gardienne est un पिशाच ) is a 2011 कनाडाई टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, आधारित on the television film of the same name.
In Canada, the series premiered in French on télétoon on फ़रवरी 28, 2011, in अंग्रेज़ी on teletoon on March 14, 2011, and on Disney Channel in the United States on June 27, 2011.
The show was created by भैस tv, creators of 6teen और Total Drama.
The show follows ethan मॉर्गन ( मैथ्यू नाईट ), जो, in the टेलीविज़न फिल्मी, learns that his babysitter Sarah ( Vanessa Morgan ) is a vampire.
In the फिल्मी, he learns he is समर्थ to have visions और उसके best friend Benny Weir ( Atticus Mitchell ) is a spellmaster.
The series follows the three as वे लो on अलौकिक शक्तियां और have adventures, साथ occasional सहायता इससे fellow vampires Rory ( Cameron Kennedy ) and Erica ( Kate Todd ), while dealing with the troubles of regular high school life.
A second season was confirmed to प्रारंभ उत्पादन in सितंबर 2011 और it पहला premiered on डिज़्नी चैनल on June 29, 2012, it premiered on Teletoon September 6, 2012.
Télétoon started featuring season 2 sneak-peak एपीसोड on अक्तूबर 28, 2012 और premiered it on January 10, 2013
Dodge B Series utility circa 1950, चलित by अल्बर्ट Namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up, प्रायः बस referred to as a पिकअप, is a लाइट मोटर गाडी with an open-top, rear cargo area ( bed ).
In North America, the term pickup is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory built, integrated bed, as खूब as लिये coupé यूटिलिटी वाहनों, प्रायः आधारित on a निजी car chassis, लकिन भी प्रायः on a special dedicated chassi for such use.
Some countries have their own terms similar to pickup, such as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई जीलैंड, or bakkie in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी.
Large pickup trucks are somewhat rare in Europe, where vans and लाइट lorries हैं commonly प्रयुक्त for similar roles.
The President of the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of government of the United States.
The president लीड the कार्यपालिका शाखा of the संघीय सरकारी and is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
Article II of the u.S. संविधान vests the कार्यपालिका शक्ति of the संयुक्त राज्य in the अध्यक्ष और आरोप उसे साथ the निष्पादन of संघीय विधि, alongside the जिम्मेदारी of appointing federal executive, diplomatic, regulatory, and judicial officers, and concluding treaties with foreign powers, with the advice and consent of the Senate.
The president is further सशक्त to ग्रान्ट संघीय pardons और reprieves, और to convene और adjourn either or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances.
Since the founding of the United States, the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially और प्रत्येक आधुनिक अध्यक्ष, despite possessing no औपचारिक विधान शक्तियां परे हस्ताक्षर or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स, is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States.
the अध्यक्ष is अक्सर वर्णित as the most powerful person in the world.
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term, and is one of only दो nationally निर्वाचित संघीय अधिकारियों, the अन्य होने the वाइस अध्यक्ष of the United States.
The Twenty-second Amendment, अपनाया in 1951, prohibits anyone इससे कभी होने निर्वाचित to the presidency for a third full term.
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than एकबार if कि व्यक्ति previously था परोसा as अध्यक्ष, or एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष, लिये more than two years of another person 's term as president.
In सब, 43 individuals have परोसा 55 four-year terms.
On January 20, 2009, Barack Obama became the 44th और वर्तमान अध्यक्ष.
On November 6, 2012, he was re-elected and is scheduled to serve जबतक जनवरी 20, 2017.
Bottled खनिज जल
Bottled water is drinking water ( e.g., well water, distilled water, Mineral जल, or वसन्त जल ) packaged in plastic or glass water bottles.
Bottled जल may be कार्बोनेटेड or not.
आकार दायरा इससे छोटी सिंगल सेवारत bottles to large carboys for water coolers.
Map of the प्रमुख नदियाँ, झीलों, और टंकी in India
Map showing rivers और बाढ़ prone क्षेत्रों in India
Rivers of India play an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in the lives of the Indian people.
The river systems provide irrigation, potable water, cheap transportation, विद्युत, और the livelihoods लिये a विशाल क्रमांक of लोगों all over the country and to rural areas.
This easily explains क्यों nearly all the major cities of India are located by the banks of rivers.
the नदियाँ भी have an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in हिन्दू mythology और are considered holy by all Hindus in the country.
Seven major rivers along with their numerous tributaries मेक up the नदी प्रणाली of India.
Most of the rivers pour their waters into the Bay of Bengal ; however, some of the rivers whose courses take उन्हें through the पश्चिमी भाग of the देश और towards the ईस्ट of the राज्य of Himachal Pradesh empty into the Arabian Sea.
Parts of Ladakh, northern parts of the aravlli दायरा और the arid भाग of the Thar Desert have inland drainage.
Dr.Francis Buchanan surveyed the courses of the नदियाँ of इण्डिया साथ साथ उनके tributaries और शाखाओं in 1810-11 ad और प्रस्तुत a minute account of it.
The shifting of the पाठ्यक्रम और bed over the centuries is very remarkable.
Many of the channels उल्लेखित in कि सर्वेक्षण have अभी become मुर्दे, सूखी or even extinct.
All major नदियाँ of इण्डिया originate इससे one of the three main watersheds :
the हिमालय और the काराकोरम ranges
विंध्य और satpura सीमाएँ और Chotanagpur plateau in central India
Sahyadri or पश्चिमी ghats in पश्चिमी India
The Bretton Woods system of monetary management स्थापित the नियम लिये वाणिज्यिक और वित्तीय संबंध among the संसार 's प्रमुख औद्योगिक राज्य in the mid-20th century.
The Bretton Woods system was the first example of a fully negotiated मौद्रिक अनुक्रम intended to govern मौद्रिक संबंध among स्वतंत्र nation-states.
Preparing to rebuild the अंतरराष्ट्रीय आर्थिक प्रणाली as संसार युद्ध ii थी स्टिल raging, 730 delegates इससे सब 44 अलाइड राष्ट्र gathered at the Mount Washington Hotel in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, United States, for the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference.
The delegates deliberated दौरान 1–22 जुलाई 1944, और हस्ताक्षरित the अनुबंध on its final day.
Setting up a system of rules, institutions, and procedures to regulate the international मौद्रिक प्रणाली, the planners at bretton वुड्स स्थापित the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक निधि ( imf ) और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बैंको लिये पुनर्निर्माण और विकास ( IBRD ), which today is part of the World Bank Group.
These organizations became operational in 1945 after a sufficient क्रमांक of देशों था ratified the agreement.
The chief features of the bretton वुड्स प्रणाली यहूद an दायित्व लिये प्रत्येक देश to अपनाना a monetary policy that maintained the exchange rate by tying its currency to the U.S. dollar and the ability of the IMF to bridge temporary imbalances of payments.
On 15 August 1971, the United States unilaterally terminated convertibility of the us $ to सुनहरा.
This brought the bretton वुड्स प्रणाली to an समाप्त and saw the dollar become fiat currency.
This action, referred to as the Nixon shock, created the situation in which the United States dollar became a reserve करेंसी प्रयुक्त by many states.
At the वही समय, अनेक फिक्स्ड मुद्राएँ ( such as GBP, for example ), also became free floating.
Ducati मोटर पकड़कर s.p.A. is an इतालवी कम्पनी that designs and manufactures motorcycles.
headquartered in बोलोग्ना, इटली, डुकाटी is स्वामित्व by Audi through its Italian subsidiary Lamborghini.
A credit score is a numerical expression based on a सांख्यिकीय विश्लेषण of a व्यक्ति 's क्रेडिट files, to represent the creditworthiness of that person.
A credit score is primarily based on credit report सूचना typically sourced इससे क्रेडिट bureaus.
lenders, ऐसे as बैंको और क्रेडिट कार्ड कंपनियाँ, उपयोग क्रेडिट स्कोर to evaluate the संभावित risk posed by lending money to consumers and to mitigate losses due to bad debt.
lenders उपयोग क्रेडिट स्कोर to determine जो qualifies for a loan, at what interest rate, and what credit limits.
Lenders also use क्रेडिट स्कोर to determine जिससे ग्राहक are likely to bring in the most revenue.
The use of credit or पहचान स्कोरिंग prior to authorizing अभिगम or granting क्रेडिट is an क्रियान्वयन of a trusted system.
क्रेडिट स्कोरिंग is not limited to banks.
Other संगठन, ऐसे as मोबाईल फोन कंपनियाँ, insurance companies, landlords, and government departments employ the same techniques.
Credit scoring also has a lot of overlap साथ आंकड़ा खनन, जिससे उपयोग अनेक समान techniques.
These techniques combine हज़ारों of कारकों लकिन they are more or less similar or the same.
The seven SI base units and the interdependency of उनके परिभाषाएं : लिये उदाहरण, to निकालें the परिभाषा of the मीटर इससे the गति of लाइट, the definition of the second must be known while the ampere and candela are both dependent on the definition of energy which in turn is defined in terms of length, mass and time.
The International System of Units ( SI ) defines seven इकाई of माप as a मौलिक नियत इससे जिससे सब अन्य si इकाई are derived.
These SI आधार इकाई और उनके physical quantities are:
metre for लंबाई ( us अंग्रेज़ी : meter )
kilogram for द्रव्यमान ( नोट : not the gram )
दूसरी लिये time
ampere लिये इलेक्ट्रिक current
केल्विन लिये temperature
candela लिये चमकदार intensity
mole for the राशि of substance.
The SI base quantities form a set of mutually independent आयाम as जरूरी by आयामी विश्लेषण commonly employed in विज्ञान and technology.
However, in a given realization of these units वे may खूब be interdependent, i.e. पारिभाषित in terms of each other.
the names of si इकाई हैं लिखा in लोअरकेस वर्ण ( the 'degree Celsius ' meets this rule, as 'degree ' is the unit, and 'Celsius ' is a modifier ).
The symbols of इकाई हैं लिखा in लोअरकेस ( e.g. मीटर रै the प्रतीक m ), मगर कि प्रतीकों लिये इकाई नामित बाद persons are written with an initial capital letter ( e.g., the hertz has the uppercase symbol Hz ).
Many other units, such as the litre ( us अंग्रेज़ी : लीनियर ), हैं formally नहीं भाग of the si, लकिन हैं स्वीकृत लिये उपयोग साथ SI.
स्मारक canyon
Colorado National Monument ( locally referred to as The स्मारक ) is a भाग of the नेशनल पार्क सेवा निकट the city of Grand Junction, Colorado.
Spectacular canyons cut गहन into sandstone और भी granite–gneiss–schist rock formations, in some areas.
This is an area of desert land high on the कोलोराडो पठार, साथ पिनियन और juniper forests on the plateau.
The park hosts a wide range of wildlife, including red-tailed hawks and golden eagles, ravens, jays, मरुस्थल bighorn शीप, और coyotes.
Activities include hiking, horseback सवारी, सड़क bicycling, और दर्शनीय ड्राइव ; a आगंतुक बीच on the west side contains a natural history museum and gift shop.
There हैं भव्य दृश्य इससे trails और the रिम चट्टान Drive, which winds along the plateau.
Nearby are the Book Cliffs, और the largest flat-topped पहाड़ in the world, the Grand Mesa.
Its feature attraction is Monument Canyon, which रनों the चौडाई of the पार्क, और शामिल चट्टान formations ऐसे as स्वतंत्रता स्मारक, the चुंबन Couple, and Coke Ovens.
The monument includes 20,500 acres ( 32 वर्गाकार मील ), much of जिससे रै महरूम अनुशंसित to Congress for designation as wilderness.
left to right : Utility Uniform, Blue Dress वर्दी, सेवा वर्दी, और संध्या Dress uniforms
The वर्दी of the संयुक्त राज्य समुद्री corps serve to फर्क Marines from members of other services.
Among current uniforms in the United States Armed शक्तियां, the marines ' वर्दी have महरूम in सेवा the longest.
The Marine Dress Blue uniform रै, साथ few परिवर्तन, महरूम worn in essentially its current form since the 19th century.
North American telephone area कोड 419 और 567 serve the उत्तरपश्चिम quadrant of the U.S. state of Ohio.
The largest city served by ये क्षेत्रफल कोड is टोलेडो ( और इसके उपनगरों of हॉलैंड, maumee, northwood, ऑरेगॉन, ओटावा पहाड़ियाँ, perrysburg, rossford, Sylvania, Swanton, Waterville, and Whitehouse ).
Other शहरों परोसा by ये क्षेत्रफल कोड शामिल एडीए, ashland, bellevue, bluffton, बोलिंग ग्रीन, ब्रायन, bucyrus, celina, क्लाइड, crestline, defiance, delphos, Edison, Erastus, Findlay, Fostoria, Fremont, Galion, Kenton, Lima, Mansfield, Mount Gilead, Napoleon, Norwalk, Oak Harbor, Port Clinton, Sandusky, Shelby, St. Marys, Tiffin, Upper Sandusky, Van Wert, Wapakoneta, Wauseon, Willard.
Other areas served include the Lake Erie Islands north of बंदरगाहों क्लिंटन और वेस्ट of Sandusky.
The main area code, 419, was created as one of the original area codes in October 1947 ; the ओवरले क्षेत्रफल कोड 567 थी निर्मित on जनवरी 1, 2002.
Despite the उपस्थिति of टोलेडो, the राज्य 's fourth-largest नगर, 419 was the last of Ohio 's original four area codes to have been split or overlaid.
Mickey Leroy Gilley ( born कूच 9, 1936 ) is an अमरीकी country music singer and musician.
Although he started out singing straight-up देश और पश्चिमी सामग्री in the 1970s, he स्थानांतरित towards a अधिक पॉप -friendly ध्वनि in the 1980s, bringing उसे further कामयाबी on नहीं बस the country charts, but the pop charts as well.
Among his biggest hits हैं `` रूम पूरा of गुलाब, '' `` do n't the लड़कियों सब मिलेंगी prettier at closing समय, '' और the रीमेक of the Soul hit `` Stand by Me ``.
He is also the cousin of जेरी ली लुईस, कार्ल mcvoy, Jim Gilley and Jimmy Swaggart.
According to the Federal विमानन प्रशासन, gilley is a licensed पायलट, जो holds an यंत्र दरजा साथ वाणिज्यिक पायलट privileges for multi-engine airplanes, as well as private pilot privileges for single engine aircraft.
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11, September 11th, or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated terrorist attacks launched by the इस्लामी आतंकवादी समूह al-qaeda upon the संयुक्त राज्य in नई यॉर्क नगर और the वॉशिंगटन, d.C. क्षेत्रफल on सितंबर 11, 2001.
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19 al-qaeda आतंकवादी so वे could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks.
Two of those planes, अमरीकी एयरलाइंस उड़ान 11 और संयुक्त एयरलाइंस Flight 175, were crashed into the North and South towers, respectively, of the World Trade Center complex in New York City.
Within two hours, both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or पूरा पतन of सब अन्य इमारतें in the wtc जटिल, as खूब as प्रमुख क्षति to ten other large surrounding structures.
A third plane, American एयरलाइंस उड़ान 77, थी क्रैश into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the मुख्यालय of the United States Department of Defense ), leading to a partial collapse in its western side.
The fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, was targeted at the संयुक्त राज्य कैपिटल in वॉशिंगटन, d.C., लकिन क्रैश into a फ़ील्ड निकट shanksville, पेन्सिलवेनिया, after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers.
In total, almost 3,000 people died in the attacks, including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers सवार the चार planes.
suspicion जल्दी गिरी on al-Qaeda.
Although the group 's leader, Osama bin Laden, initially अस्वीकृत कोई भागीदारी, in 2004 he claimed जिम्मेदारी लिये the हमले.
al-qaeda और बिन लादेन cited u.S. support of इसराईल, the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks.
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the War on Terror and invading अफगानिस्तान to depose the तालिबान, जिससे था harbored al-qaeda.
Many countries strengthened उनके anti-terrorism विधान and expanded law enforcement powers.
Having evaded capture for सालो, बिन लादेन थी स्तिथ और मारे by U.S. forces in May 2011.
The destruction of the Twin मीनारें और अन्य गुण caused गंभीर क्षति to the अर्थव्यवस्था of Lower Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets.
Cleanup of the संसार व्यापार बीच साईट थी समाप्त in may 2002, और the प्रस्तुतीकरण was repaired within a year.
numerous memorials have महरूम constructed, सहित the नेशनल सितंबर 11 मेमोरियल & संग्रहालय in नई York, the Pentagon Memorial, and the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania.
After a lengthy delay, the One World Trade Center is अपेक्षित to be समाप्त at मैदान शून्य in New York City in 2013.
Finding Nemo is a 2003 American computer-animated comedy-drama adventure film लिखा और निर्देशित by एंड्रयू stanton, released by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी तस्वीरें, और the पांचवां फिल्मी उत्पादित by पिक्चर्स एनिमेशन Studios.
It tells the story of the over-protective clownfish named Marlin ( Albert Brooks ) who, along with a regal tang नामित dory ( एलेन degeneres ), खोज लिये उसके abducted बेटे nemo ( सिकंदर gould ) सब the way to Sydney Harbour.
Along the रास्ता, marlin learns to लो risks and let Nemo take care of himself.
It is Pixar 's first film to be released in cinemas in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध गर्मियाँ.
The फिल्मी थी re-released लिये the पहला समय in 3d on सितंबर 14, 2012, and it was released on Blu-ray on December 4, 2012.
A sequel, ढूंढना dory, is फिलहाल in विकास, set to be released on November 25, 2015.
The film received universal critical acclaim and won the Academy Award for Best Animated विशेषता, और थी मनोनीत in तीन अधिक श्रेणी सहित Best Original Screenplay.
It was the second highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2003, कमाई a कुल of $ 921 लाख विश्वव्यापी.
Finding Nemo is also the best-selling DVD of all time, with over 40 लाख नक़ल बेची as of 2006, और थी the highest-grossing g-rated फिल्मी of सब समय पहले Pixar 's own Toy Story 3 overtook it.
It is also the 23rd highest-grossing film of all time, as खूब as the 3rd highest-grossing एनिमेटेड film.
In 2008, the American Film संस्थान नामित it the दसवाँ महानतम एनिमेटेड फिल्मी कभी बना दौरान their Top 10.
The sixth season of America 's Best Dance Crew, also ज्ञात as अमेरिका 's बेहतरीन नृत्य क्रू : ऋतु of the सुपरस्टार, premiered on अप्रैल 7, 2011 and concluded on June 5, 2011.
Auditions were held in चार शहरों इससे जनवरी 21 through फ़रवरी 5 : शिकागो, ह्यूस्टन, New York, and Los Angeles.
This season takes a अलग रूट इससे पास्ट seasons.
The crews must perform to the म्यूज़िक of एक विशिष्ट कलाकार प्रत्येक सप्ताह, सहित रिहाना, Lil Wayne, and other popular stars.
This season also features special अतिथि दिखावे by विभिन्न म्यूज़िक हस्तियाँ सहित जस्टिन बीबर, the ब्लैक eyed मटर, Katy Perry, Kesha, Nicki Minaj, and Kanye West.
Dominic `` D-Trix '' Sandoval, a former member of Quest Crew, the winner of the तीसरा ऋतु of अमेरिका 's बेहतरीन नृत्य क्रू, joins returning judges Lil Mama and JC Chasez as the newest judge.
In the season finale, I aM me थी घोषित the विजेता of ऋतु 6 और प्राप्त the $ 100,000 ( USD ) prize.
In the United States, Social Security refers to the Old-Age, Survivors, and विकलांगता बीमे ( oasdi ) संघीय program.
The original Social Security Act ( 1935 ) और the वर्तमान संस्करण of the अधिनियम, as amended, encompass अनेक सोशल welfare और सोशल insurance programs.
Social Security is primarily funded through dedicated payroll कर पुकारा संघीय बीमे योगदान अधिनियम कर ( fica ).
Tax deposits are formally entrusted to the Federal old-age और survivors बीमे विश्वास निधि, the संघीय विकलांगता बीमे विश्वास निधि, the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund, or the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund which comprise the Social Security Trust Fund.
Upward redistribution of income is responsible लिये परिचय 43 % of the प्रक्षिप्त सोशल सुरक्षा shortfall over the next 75 years.
According to economist Martin Feldstein, the combined spending for all social insurance programs in 2003 constituted 37 % of सरकारी व्यय और 7 % of the सकल घरेलू उत्पाद.
सोशल सुरक्षा is फिलहाल अनुमानित to keep roughly 40 percent of all Americans age 65 or older out of poverty.
The Social Security प्रशासन is headquartered in woodlawn, मेरीलैंड, just west of Baltimore.
The alcohol by आवाज़ दिखाया on a bottle of absinthe.
Alcohol by volume ( abbreviated as ABV, abv, or alc/vol ) is a standard measure of कैसा much दारू ( इथेनॉल ) is contained in an alcoholic पेय ( expressed as a प्रतिशत of कुल volume ).
The ABV standard is प्रयुक्त विश्वव्यापी.
In कुछ देशों, दारू by आवाज़ is referred to as degrees Gay-Lussac ( after the French chemist Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac ).
Laurel Hollow is a गाँव in the कस्बा of सीप खाड़ी in nassau काउंटी, नई यॉर्क in the United States.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 1,952 at the 2010 census.
Charles जॉन huffam डिकेंस ( ; 7 फ़रवरी 1812 – 9 जून 1870 ) was an English writer and social critic.
He created some of the world 's सबसे यादगार fictional वर्ण और is generally regarded as the greatest novelist of the Victorian period.
During his life, his works enjoyed unprecedented कीर्ति, और by the बीसवीं सदी उसके साहित्यिक प्रतिभाशाली थी broadly acknowledged by critics and scholars.
His novels and short stories continue to be widely लोकप्रिय.
Born in Portsmouth, England, Dickens left school to कार्य in a फैक्टरी बाद उसके पिता थी thrown into debtors ' prison.
Although he had छोटी औपचारिक शिक्षा, उसके जल्दी impoverishment drove him to succeed.
Over his करियर he संपादित a साप्ताहिक जर्नल लिये 20 सालो, लिखा 15 novels, 5 novellas और सैंकड़ों of short stories and non-fiction articles, lectured and performed extensively, was an indefatigable letter writer, and campaigned vigorously for children 's rights, education, and other social reforms.
Dickens sprang to fame with the 1836 सीरियल प्रकाशन of the pickwick papers.
Within a few years he had become an international literary celebrity, famous for his humour, व्यंग्य, और keen अवलोकन of अक्षर and society.
His novels, most published in monthly or weekly किश्तों, pioneered the सीरियल प्रकाशन of कथा fiction, जिससे became the dominant Victorian mode for novel publication.
The instalment format allowed Dickens to evaluate his audience 's प्रतिक्रिया, और he प्रायः परिवर्धित उसके प्लाट और अक्षर विकास आधारित on ऐसे प्रतिक्रिया.
For example, when his wife 's chiropodist expressed तकलीफ at the रास्ता मिस mowcher in दाउद कॉपरफील्ड लगा to प्रतिबिंबित उसके disabilities, Dickens went on to improve the character with positive lineaments.
Fagin in ओलिवर ट्विस्ट जाहिर mirrors the प्रसिद्ध बाड़ ikey सुलेमान ; उसके कैरीकेचर of leigh हंट in the फिगर of Mr Skimpole in Bleak House was likewise toned down on advice from some of his friends, as they read episodes.
In the same novel, both Lawrence boythorne और मूनी the beadle हैं drawn इससे रियल जीवन – boythorne इससे वाल्टर Savage Landor and Mooney from 'Looney ', a beadle at Salisbury Square.
His plots were carefully constructed, and Dickens often wove in तत्व इससे topical कार्यक्रम into उसके कहानियां.
Masses of the illiterate poor chipped in ha'pennies to have each new monthly episode पढ़ा to उन्हें, खोलने up और प्रेरणादायी a नई क्लास of पाठक.
Dickens was regarded as the साहित्यिक colossus of his age.
His 1843 novella, A Christmas Carol, is one of the most influential works कभी लिखा, और it remains लोकप्रिय और continues to inspire adaptations in प्रत्येक artistic genre.
His creative genius has been praised by fellow writers—from Leo Tolstoy to G. K. Chesterton and जार्ज ऑरवेल —for इसके यथार्थवाद, कॉमेडी, गद्य स्टाइल, अद्वितीय characterisations, और social criticism.
On the other hand Oscar Wilde, Henry James and Virginia Woolf complained of a कमी of मनोवैज्ञानिक गहराई, ढीला लिखने, और a रग of saccharine sentimentalism.
Martin Luther King and other civil rights नेताओ in सामने of the प्रतिमा of अब्राहम Lincoln, August 28, 1963
The civil rights movement was a श्रेणी of विश्वव्यापी राजनैतिक आंदोलनों लिये समता पहले the विधि that peaked in the 1960s.
In many situations it took the form of campaigns of सिविल प्रतिरोध aimed at achieving बदलें by nonviolent फ़ॉर्म of resistance.
In some situations it थी accompanied, or followed, by सिविल अशांति and armed rebellion.
The process was long and tenuous in many countries, and many of these movements did not fully achieve उनके लक्ष्य हालांकि, the प्रयत्न of ये आंदोलनों किया सीसे to सुधार in the legal rights of previously oppressed groups of people.
The main aim of the सिविल अधिकारों गति शामिल, और शामिल, ensuring कि the अधिकारों of all people are equally protected by the law, including the rights of minorities.
Civil rights movements ranging इससे the वैश्विक lgbt अधिकारों गति to the वैश्विक महिलाओं 's अधिकारों गति to विभिन्न जातिगत अल्पसंख्यक rights movements around the world continue.
The 2010 FIFA World Cup was the 19th FIFA संसार कप, the संसार चैंपियनशिप लिये मेन 's national association football teams.
It took place in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी इससे 11 जून to 11 July 2010.
The bidding process for hosting the tournament finals was open only to अफ़्रीकी राष्ट्र ; in 2004, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय फ़ुटबॉल संघ, फीफा, चयनित दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी over मिश्र और Morocco to become the first African nation to host the finals.
The matches were played in ten stadiums in nine host cities around the देश, साथ the फाइनल निभाई at the सॉकर नगर स्टेडियम in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's largest city, Johannesburg.
Thirty-two teams were selected लिये भागीदारी via a विश्वव्यापी योग्यता tournament that began in August 2007.
In the first round of the tournament finals, the teams competed in round-robin समूह of चार टीमों लिये अंक, साथ the शीर्ष दो टीमों in each group proceeding.
These sixteen teams advanced to the knockout stage, where तीन rounds of खेल decided जिससे टीमों होता participate in the final.
In the final, Spain, the European champions, defeated third-time finalists the नीदरलैंड्स 1–0 बाद अतिरिक्त समय, साथ आन्द्रेस iniesta 's लक्ष्य in the 116th मिनट giving स्पेन उनके पहला संसार शीर्षक, becoming the eighth nation to win the tournament, and the first European nation to win the tournament outside its home continent.
Host nation South Africa, 2006 world champions Italy और 2006 runners-up फ़्रांस यहूद सब eliminated in the पहला गोलाकार of the tournament.
It was the first time that the hosts were eliminated in the पहला गोलाकार.
New Zealand with their three draws were the only अपराजित टोली in the टूर्नामेंट, लकिन यहूद भी eliminated in the पहला गोलाकार.
the mcmuffin is a परिवार of नाश्ता सैंडविच in विभिन्न आकार और configurations, sold by the fast-food restaurant chain McDonald 's.
The Egg McMuffin is the signature breakfast sandwich ; it was invented by the late मैकडोनाल्ड 's वाल हर्ब पीटरसन in the लेट 1960s और थी introduced देशभर in 1972.
John Lennon was an English संगीतकार जो gained विश्वव्यापी कीर्ति as एक of the संस्थापकों of the बीटल्स, for his subsequent solo career, and for his political activism and pacifism.
He was shot by Mark David Chapman at the entrance of the भवन जहाँ he जिया, the डकोटा, in नई यॉर्क नगर on 8 दिसम्बर 1980.
Lennon had बस लौटे इससे रिकार्ड संयंत्र स्टुडियो साथ उसके बीवी, Yoko Ono.
Lennon was pronounced dead on arrival at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, where it was stated कि nobody could have जिया लिये अधिक than a few मिनट्स बाद sustaining ऐसे injuries.
Shortly after लोकल न्यूज स्टेशन reported लेनन 's मौत, crowds gathered at Roosevelt Hospital and in front of the Dakota.
Lennon was cremated on 10 December 1980 at the Ferncliff Cemetery in Hartsdale, New York ; the ashes यहूद दिए to ओनो, जो chose नहीं to थाम a अंत्येष्टि लिये him.
The first report of Lennon 's death to a U.S. national दर्शक थी घोषित by हावर्ड cosell, on एबीसी 's सोमवार Night Football.
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a major United राज्य बंदरगाहों और the largest नगर और महानगर area in the state of Louisiana.
The जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर थी 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010 और थी the 46th largest in the संयुक्त States.
the नई orleans–metairie–bogalusa संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय Area, a larger trading area, had a 2010 population of 1,214,932.
The city is named बाद orléans, a नगर स्तिथ on the loire नदी in केन्द्र, फ़्रांस, और is खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके distinct French Creole architecture, as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage.
New Orleans is also famous for its cuisine, music ( particularly as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ), और इसके सालाना जश्न और त्यौहार, सबसे notably Mardi Gras.
The city is प्रायः referred to as the `` सबसे unique '' in America.
New Orleans is located in southeastern louisiana, straddling the Mississippi River.
The city और ऑरलियन्स मोहल्ला ( ) are.
The city and parish हैं bounded by the parishes of st. tammany to the north, St. Bernard to the east, Plaquemines to the south and Jefferson to the south and west.
Lake pontchartrain, भाग of जिससे is included in the city limits, lies to the north and Lake Borgne lies to the east.
The संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1968 थी the 46th quadrennial presidential election, held on Tuesday, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, former vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन, जीती the चुनाव over the Democratic nominee, incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey.
Nixon ran on a अभियान कि promised to restore विधि और अनुक्रम to the स्वदेश 's cities, torn by riots and crime.
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning election as it permanently disrupted the नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि था वर्चस्व अध्यक्षीय राजनीती लिये 36 years.
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide, the election saw the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष मजबूर आउट of the रेस और a रिपब्लिकन निर्वाचित for the first time in twelve years.
It was a wrenching national experience, conducted during a year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., and subsequent race riots across the nation, the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy, widespread opposition to the Vietnam युद्ध आरपार विश्वविद्यालयों campuses, और हिंसक confrontations between पुलिस और anti-war प्रदर्शनकारियों at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again.
The election featured the strongest तीसरा पार्टी प्रयत्न चूंकि 1912 by पूर्व अलबामा राज्यपाल George Wallace, a Democrat.
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the South to end school पृथक्करण, he carried the गहन दक्षिण और भागा खूब in जातीय औद्योगिक जिले in the North.
This was the last election in जिससे नई यॉर्क था the सबसे मत in the चुनावी college ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 census, कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained the सबसे चुनावी मत और रै remained the सबसे populous state since then.
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won बगैर carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी 's home state.
Karak ( ; also known as Garak, Garrak, and Gorg ) is a village in Gamasiyab ग्रामीण ज़िला, in the सेंट्रल District of Nahavand County, Hamadan Province, Iran.
At the 2006 जनसांख्यिकी, इसके जनसांख्यिकी थी 294, in 65 families.
Kurt 's हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20, 1967 – April 5, 1994 ) थी an अमरीकी संगीतकार और कलाकार, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the सीसे सिंगर, guitarist और प्राथमिक songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana.
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen, Washington in 1985 and established it as भाग of the सिएटल म्यूज़िक झाँकी, having इसके डेब्यू एल्बम ब्लीच released on the स्वतंत्र record label Sub Pop in 1989.
After signing with major label DGC Records, the band found भेदन कामयाबी साथ `` खुश्बू जैसे Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ).
Following the success of Nevermind, Nirvana was labeled `` the फ्लैगशिप बैंड '' of पीढी X, and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation ''.
Cobain, however, was often uncomfortable and frustrated, believing his message and artistic दृष्टि to have महरूम misinterpreted by the पब्लिक, साथ उसके निजी issues often subject to media attention.
He challenged निर्वाण 's दर्शक साथ इसके फाइनल स्टुडियो album In Utero ( 1993 ).
During the last years of his life, Cobain struggled साथ हेरोइन व्यसन, बीमारी और अवसाद.
He also had difficulty coping साथ उसके कीर्ति और पब्लिक चित्र, और the पेशेवर और lifelong निजी pressures surrounding himself and his wife, musician Courtney Love.
On April 8, 1994, Cobain was found dead at his home in Seattle, the शिकार of कया थी officially शासित a आत्महत्या by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head.
The हालातों of उसके मौत at आयु 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate.
Since उनके डेब्यू, निर्वाण, साथ कोबेन as a songwriter, रै बेची over 25 लाख albums in the U.S., and over 50 million worldwide.
A millwright is a craftsman or tradesman सगाई साथ the construction and maintenance of machinery.
More generally in the English speaking world, early millwrights यहूद विशेषज्ञ बढ़ई जो erected मशीने प्रयुक्त in कृषि, food processing and processing lumber and paper.
In the early part of the Industrial Revolution, उनके कौशल यहूद दबाया into सेवा भवन the earliest powered textile mills.
Modern millwrights work with steel and other materials in addition to wood and must often combine the skills of अनेक skilled ट्रेड in अनुक्रम to सफलतापूर्वक fabricate औद्योगिक मशीनरी or to इकट्ठे मशीने इससे pre-fabricated parts.
The modern millwright must also be able to पढ़ा blueprints और अन्य schematics to aid him in the construction of complex systems.
Millwrights are frequently unionized, with around 45 % unionized in the us, हालांकि अनुभवी millwrights प्रायः नियत themselves up as स्वतंत्र contractors.
The Adjustment ब्यूरो is a 2011 अमरीकी रोमांटिक कार्रवाई थ्रिलर film loosely based on the Philip K. Dick short story, `` Adjustment Team ``.
The film was written and निर्देशित by जार्ज nolfi और सितारों Matt Damon and Emily Blunt.
the डाल भी शामिल एंथोनी mackie, जॉन slattery, Michael Kelly, and Terence Stamp.
The score was composed by Thomas Newman, with two songs by रिचर्ड ashcroft ( `` भविष्य 's उज्जवल '' लिये the खोलने अनुक्रम ; `` हैं तुम तैयार ? '' लिये the closing credits ).
सोडियम azide is the अकार्बनिक compound with the formula NaN3.
इस colorless नमक is the gas-forming घटक in many car airbag systems.
It is used लिये the तैयारी of other azide compounds.
it is an ionic पदार्थ, is अत्यधिक घुलनशील in water, and is very acutely toxic.
Double rainbow and supernumerary rainbows on the अंदर of the प्राथमिक चाप.
The छाया of the फ़ोटोग्राफ़र 's सिर on the नीचे marks the centre of the rainbow circle ( antisolar point ).
A rainbow is an ऑप्टिकल और meteorological घटना कि is caused by प्रतिबिंब of लाइट in water droplets in the Earth 's atmosphere, resulting in a spectrum of light appearing in the sky.
It takes the form of a multicoloured चाप.
Rainbows caused by sunlight always appear in the खण्ड of आसमान सीधे opposite the sun.
In a `` primary rainbow '', the arc shows रेड on the बाहरी भाग और बैंगनी on the inner side.
इस रेनबो is caused by लाइट होने refracted जबकि प्रवेश a droplet of water, then reflected inside on the back of the droplet and refracted again when leaving it.
In a double rainbow, a second arc is seen outside the प्राथमिक चाप, और रै the अनुक्रम of इसके रंग reversed, red facing toward the other one, in both rainbows.
This second rainbow is caused by light reflecting twice अंदर जल droplets.
The Conservative Party, officially the Conservative and Unionist Party and colloquially referred to as the Tory Party or the Tories, is a centre-right political पार्टी in the संयुक्त किंगडम कि espouses the तत्त्वज्ञान of conservatism and British unionism.
it is the largest political party in the United Kingdom, being the largest single party in the हाउस of कॉमन्स साथ 303 mps, the largest पार्टी in लोकल सरकारी साथ 9,391 पार्षदों, और the largest अंग्रेजों पार्टी in the यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट साथ 25 meps.
It governs in coalition with the उदार डेमोक्रेट, साथ पार्टी नेता दाउद cameron as प्रधान मंत्री.
The रूढ़िवादी पार्टी थी संस्थापित in 1834, और थी एक of दो प्रबल पार्टियों in the 19th century, along with the Liberal Party.
It बदला इसके नाम to the रूढ़िवादी और यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी in 1912 बाद merging with the Liberal Unionist Party, although that name is rarely used and it is generally referred to as simply the Conservative Party.
In the 1920s, the उदार vote greatly diminished and the Labour Party became the Conservatives ' main rivals.
रूढ़िवादी प्रधान मंत्रियों led सरकारें लिये 57 सालो of the 20th century, including Winston Churchill ( 1940–45, 1951–55 ) and Margaret Thatcher ( 1979–90 ).
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging economic उदारीकरण और देखी the conservatives become the सबसे eurosceptic of the three major parties.
The party was returned to government in coalition, having failed to win a majority, in 2010 अंतर्गत the अधिक `` उदार '' नेतृत्व of दाउद Cameron.
In the European Parliament, the Conservatives are the largest British party with 25 MEPs, who sit with the soft eurosceptic यूरोपीय conservatives और reformists ( ecr ) संसदीय समूह, जबकि the पार्टी itself is a सदस्य of the गठबंधन of European Conservatives and Reformists ( AECR ) Europarty.
They are the third-largest party in the स्कॉटिश पार्लियामेंट और second-largest in the वेल्श Assembly.
They were formally allied to the Ulster Unionist पार्टी ( uup ) as भाग of the ulster conservatives और unionists व्यवस्था, साथ the uup फिलहाल participating in the five-party Northern Ireland Executive.
Destiny 's Child was an American R & B girl group whose final, and perhaps सबसे recognizable, line-up comprised बेयोंस नॉलेस, केली rowland और Michelle Williams.
Formed in 1990 in Houston, Texas, Destiny 's चाइल्ड सदस्यों began उनके musical endeavors as लड़की 's टीमे comprising, among others, Knowles, Rowland, LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett.
After सालो of सीमित कामयाबी, वे were signed to Columbia Records as Destiny 's Child.
Destiny 's Child was launched into mainstream मान्यता following the रिलीज of उनके best-selling दूसरी एल्बम, the लिखने 's on the वॉल, जिससे contained the number-one singles `` Bills, Bills, Bills `` and `` Say My Name ``.
despite नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, the समूह थी plagued by आतंरिक विरोध और विधिक turmoil, as roberson और luckett attempted to split from the group 's manager Mathew Knowles, citing favoritism of Knowles and Rowland, his daughter and niece, respectively.
Both Roberson and Luckett were soon replaced with विलियम्स और farrah फ्रैंकलिन ; however, in 2000, Franklin was dismissed, leaving them as a trio.
Their third album, उत्तरजीवी, जिससे contains विषयवस्तु the पब्लिक interpreted as a चैनल to the समूह 's अनुभव, contains the विश्वव्यापी हिट्स `` Independent Women ``, `` Survivor `` and `` Bootylicious ``.
In 2002, they announced a hiatus and re-united दो सालो बाद लिये the रिलीज of उनके चौथी स्टुडियो album, Destiny Fulfilled ( 2004 ).
Destiny 's Child has sold more than 50 लाख रिकॉर्ड worldwide to date.
Billboard magazine ranks the group as one of the महानतम musical trios of सब समय, the नवीं सबसे कामयाब artist/band of the 2000s, और लगाई the group 68th in its All-Time Hot 100 Artists list in 2008.
The centers लिये बीमारी कंट्रोल और रोकथाम ( सीडीसी ) is a संयुक्त राज्य संघीय एजेंसी अंतर्गत the Department of Health and Human Services headquartered in Druid Hills, unincorporated DeKalb County, Georgia, in Greater Atlanta.
It works to protect public स्वास्थ्य और सुरक्षा by providing सूचना to बढ़ाएँ स्वास्थ्य निर्णय, और it promotes स्वास्थ्य through partnerships with state health departments and other organizations.
The CDC focus national attention on developing and applying disease prevention and control ( especially infectious diseases and foodborne pathogens and other microbial infections ), environmental स्वास्थ्य, occupational सुरक्षा और स्वास्थ्य, स्वास्थ्य प्रमोशन, चोट रोकथाम और शिक्षा क्रियाएँ designed to improve the health of the people of the United States.
The CDC is the United States ' national public स्वास्थ्य संस्थान और is a founding सदस्य of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of नेशनल Public Health Institutes.
Earthquake prediction `` is usually defined as the specification of the time, स्थान, और परिमाण of a भविष्य भूकंप भीतर stated हद '', और विशेषकर of `` the अगला दमदार भूकंप to occur in a region. ''
This can be विशिष्ट इससे भूकंप forecasting, जिससे is the probabilistic मूल्यांकन of सामान्य भूकंप जोखिम, सहित the आवृत्ति and magnitude of damaging earthquakes, in a given area over periods of years or decades.
This can be further distinguished from real-time भूकंप चेतावनी प्रणालियों, जिससे, upon डिटेक्शन of a कठोर भूकंप, can provide neighboring regions a few seconds warning of potentially significant shaking.
To be useful, an earthquake prediction must be precise enough to warrant the लागत of increased एहतियात, सहित disruption of ordinary क्रियाएँ और कॉमर्स, और सामयिक पर्याप्त कि तैयारी can be made.
Predictions must also be विश्वसनीय, as गलत सचेतक और रद्द सचेतक हैं नहीं तभी economically costly, लकिन seriously undermine confidence in, and thereby the effectiveness of, any kind of warning.
With over 7,000 earthquakes around the world each year with a परिमाण of 4.0 or वृहद, नगण्य कामयाबी in भूकंप भविष्यवाणी is easily प्राप्त using sufficiently broad parameters of time, location, or magnitude.
However, such नगण्य `` कामयाब पूर्वानुमान '' are not useful.
Major earthquakes are often followed by reports that they were predicted, or at least anticipated, but no अर्जी of a कामयाब भविष्यवाणी of a प्रमुख भूकंप has survived close inquiry.
In the 1970s there was intense optimism amongst वैज्ञानिकों कि कुछ विधि of predicting भूकंप might be मिला, but by the 1990s continuing failure led many scientists to question whether it was even possible.
While many scientists still hold that, given enough resources, prediction might be possible, many others maintain कि भूकंप भविष्यवाणी is inherently impossible.
Deborah Ann `` Debby '' Ryan ( born may 13, 1993 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, singer, musician, songwriter and record producer.
Ryan is best known for starring as Bailey पिकेट in the डिज़्नी चैनल असली श्रेणी the सुइट Life on Deck.
in 2008, the सुइट जीवन on डेक क्रमित as tv 's शीर्ष श्रेणी among बच्चे 6-11 and the No. 2 scripted series among tweens 9-14.
Ryan started acting in पेशेवर थिएटर at the आयु of सात ; in 2007 वो appeared in the बार्नी & Friends straight-to-DVD film Barney : Let 's Go to the Firehouse and then was discovered in a nationwide search by Disney.
She is also known for appearing in the 2008 विशेषता फिल्मी the longshots as एडिथ.
In 2009, she guest स्ट्रक्चर in an एपीसोड of wizards of waverly प्लेस in Wizards on Deck with Hannah Montana as Bailey Pickett along with her other cast mates from The Suite Life on Deck.
Then, in 2010, वो स्ट्रक्चर in the फिल्मी 16 बधाइयां, जिससे थी the सबसे देखी केबल program on the day of its premiere on the Disney Channel.
16 Wishes introduced Ryan to new audiences ; the फिल्म प्राप्त ऊँची viewership in the adults demographic ( 18-34 ).
Soon after that, रयान स्ट्रक्चर in the स्वतंत्र नाट्य फिल्मी, What If..., which premiered on August 20, 2010.
Ryan also starred in the new Disney Channel असली फिल्म, रेडियो विद्रोही, जहाँ वो portrays the भूमिका of tara एडम्स, a shy 17-year-old girl who adopts the radio personality, Radio Rebel.
Released फ़रवरी 17, 2012.
Ryan सितारों in the titular भूमिका in the डिज़्नी Channel Original Series, Jessie.
Stührling Tourbillon गति ( ).
In horology, a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an addition to the mechanics of a watch escapement.
Developed around 1795 by the French-Swiss घड़ीसाज़ abraham-louis breguet इससे an पहले विचार by the अंग्रेज़ी chronometer maker John Arnold, a tourbillon aims to counter the effects of gravity by mounting the escapement and balance wheel in a rotating cage, to negate the effect of gravity when the timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position.
Originally an attempt to improve accuracy, tourbillons are still included in some महंगी आधुनिक घड़ियाँ as a विलक्षणता और demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity.
The यांत्रिकी is प्रायः उजागर on the watch 's face to show it off.
The Windows Installer ( previously known as Microsoft Installer ) is a software component used for the संस्थापना, मेंटेनेंस, और हटाना of तन्त्र on आधुनिक Microsoft Windows systems.
The installation सूचना, और प्रायः the फाइलें themselves, हैं packaged in संस्थापना पैकेज, loosely रिलेशनल databases structured as COM Structured Storages and commonly known as `` MSI files '', from their default file extension.
Windows Installer contains significant changes इससे इसके पूर्ववर्ती, सेटअप API.
New features include a GUI framework and automatic generation of the uninstallation अनुक्रम.
Windows Installer is positioned as an alternative to stand-alone executable installer frameworks ऐसे as पुरानी संस्करण of installshield और NSIS.
Microsoft encourages third parties to use Windows Installer as the आधार लिये संस्थापना frameworks, so कि वे synchronize correctly साथ अन्य installers और रखना the आतंरिक database of installed products consistent.
Important features such as rollback और versioning निर्भर on a सतत आतंरिक database for reliable operation.
furthermore, खिड़कियाँ installer facilitates the principle of least privilege by performing software installations by proxy for unprivileged users.
Four Loko is a line of alcoholic beverages, originally marketed as उर्जा पेय, बेची by phusion प्रोजेक्ट of शिकागो, Illinois.
phusion operates as पेय Four Brewing Company.
Four Loko, the company 's most popular पेय, debuted in the संयुक्त राज्य market in 2005.
It is now sold in 48 states, and in Canada, the बहामा, बोलीविया, होंडुरास, और यूरोपीय.
The name `` Four '' is derived from the original उर्जा पेय 's चार प्रमुख संघटक : दारू, कैफीन, taurine, और guarana.
Four branded products have been the object of विधिक, नैतिक, और स्वास्थ्य चिंताएं सम्बन्धित to the कम्पनी allegedly विपणन उन्हें to the underaged and the purported danger of combining alcohol and caffeine.
After the beverage was banned in several राज्य, a उत्पाद reintroduction in दिसम्बर 2010 removed कैफीन, taurine, और guarana as ingredients, and the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an energy drink.
The neck of a guitar showing the nut ( in the पृष्ठभूमि, coloured श्वेत ) और पहला चार metal frets.
A fret is a raised element on the गर्दन of a stringed यंत्र.
Frets usually extend across the पूरा चौडाई of the गर्दन.
On most modern पश्चिमी fretted यंत्र, frets are metal strips inserted into the fingerboard.
on कुछ ऐतिहासिक यंत्र और non-European instruments, frets are made of pieces of string tied around the neck.
Frets divide the neck into फिक्स्ड खण्ड at intervals सम्बन्धित to a musical framework.
On instruments ऐसे as guitars, प्रत्येक fret represents एक semitone in the standard western system where one octave is divided into twelve semitones.
Fret is often used as a verb, meaning simply `` to दबायें bas the स्ट्रिंग पीछे a fret. ''
Fretting often refers to the frets and/or their system of placement.
There was consumption of दारू दोनो दौरान और बाद prohibition.
The 18th Amendment prohibited the production, distribution and sale of alcoholic पेय in the संयुक्त राज्य और थी widely supported by the American public when it went into effect in 1920.
The temperance movement had popularized the belief कि दारू थी the प्रमुख कारण of सबसे निजी और सोशल समस्याएं और निषेध थी देखी as the solution to the nation 's poverty, crime, violence, and other ills.
Upon ratification of the amendment, the famous evangelist बिली संडे कहा कि `` the slums will soon be only a memory.
We will फेरे हमारी जेलों into कारखानों और हमारी jails into storehouses and corncribs. ''
( Compare Christianity and दारू. )
चूंकि दारू थी to be बैन और चूंकि it थी देखी as the कारण of सबसे, if not all, crime, some communities sold their jails.
The nation was highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist in the United States Congress confidently asserted that `` There is as much मौका of repealing the eighteenth amendment as वहीँ is लिये a हमिंगबर्ड to मक्खी to the ग्रह मंगल साथ the Washington Monument tied to its tail.”
The metre ( meter in American English ), ( SI unit symbol : m ; si आयाम प्रतीक : l ), is the आधारभूत ईकाई of लंबाई in the International System of Units ( SI ).
Originally intended to be one ten-millionth of the distance from the Earth 's equator to the उत्तर ध्रुव ( at समुद्र स्तर ), इसके परिभाषा रै महरूम periodically refined to reflect growing knowledge of metrology.
चूंकि 1983, it रै महरूम पारिभाषित as `` the लंबाई of the पाथ travelled by light in vacuum during a time interval of 1/299,792,458 of a second. ''
Geologists exploring jurassic sedimentary रॉक्स in makhtesh gadol, Negev Desert, Israel
Geologists explaining the importance of volcanic राख परतों to विद्यार्थी on फ़ील्ड in Iceland
A geologist is a scientist who studies the solid and liquid matter that constitutes the धरती as खूब as the प्रक्रियाओं और इतिहास कि रै तराशा it.
Geologists प्रायः engage in अध्ययन geology.
Geologists, studying more of an applied science than a सैद्धांतिक एक, जरूर दृष्टिकोण भूविज्ञान using भौतिकी, रसायन और biology as well as other sciences.
Geologists, compared to scientists engaged in other fields, are generally more exposed to the outdoors than staying in laboratories ; हालांकि कुछ geologists prefer to perform सबसे of उनके अध्ययन in the lab.
Geologists are engaged in exploration for mining कंपनियाँ in ढूंढें of धातुओं, oils, और अन्य धरती संसाधन.
They are also in the forefront of natural जोखिमों और आपदाओं चेतावनी और शमन, अध्ययन भूकंप, volcanic कार्यकलाप, tsunamis, मौसम तूफ़ान, and the like ; their studies are used to warn the general public of the occurrence of these events.
Currently, geologists हैं भी सगाई in the चर्चा of जलवायु बदलें, as वे पढ़ाई the history and evidence for this Earth process.
Below is a व्यापक ड्रिल और tap आकार चार्ट लिये सब drills, इम्पीरियल और metric, and taps up to 36.5 mm.
Modern vacuum tubes, ज़्यादातर miniature स्टाइल
In electronics, a vacuum tube, electron tube ( in North America ), तापायनिक वाल्व, ट्यूब, or वाल्व is a यंत्र controlling इलेक्ट्रिक वर्तमान through a vacuum in a sealed container.
The container is often thin transparent glass in a roughly बेलनाकार आकार.
The simplest vacuum tube, the डायोड, is essentially an incandescent लाइट बल्ब साथ an added एलेक्ट्रोड inside.
When the bulb 's filament is heated white-hot, electrons हैं `` boiled '' बंद इसके surface and into the vacuum inside the bulb.
If the एलेक्ट्रोड -- पुकारा a `` थाली '' or `` धनाग्र '' -- is बना अधिक धनात्मक than the hot फिलामेंट, a direct current flows through the vacuum to the electrode ( a demonstration of the Edison effect ).
As the current only flows in one direction, it makes it संभावित to बदलें an प्रत्यावर्ती वर्तमान लागू to the फिलामेंट to direct current.
The परिचय of a तीसरा एलेक्ट्रोड, a grid between the filament and the plate, yields another function.
A voltage लागू to the ग्रिड नियंत्रण the वर्तमान बहती from the filament to the plate.
यूँ, it allows the यंत्र to be used as an electronic amplifier.
Vacuum tubes are thus used लिये rectification, प्रवर्धन, switching, or समान प्रसंस्करण or creation of electrical signals.
The vast बहुमत of आधुनिक दिन tubes consist of a sealed संग्राहक with a vacuum inside, and essentially rely on thermionic emission of electrons from a hot filament or a cathode heated by the filament.
कुछ अपवाद to इस हैं dealt with in the section about gas-filled tubes below.
Vacuum tubes were critical to the development of electronic technology, which drove the expansion and commercialization of radio broadcasting, television, radar, sound reinforcement, sound recording और जनन, विशाल टेलीफोन संजाल, एनालॉग और डिजिटल कंप्यूटर, और औद्योगिक प्रक्रम कंट्रोल.
Although some applications had counterparts using earlier technologies such as the spark gap ट्रांसमीटर or mechanical कंप्यूटर, it थी the आविष्कार of the वैक्यूम ट्यूब साथ तीन electrodes ( पुकारा a ट्रायोड ) और इसके काबिलियत of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक amplification that made these technologies widespread and practical.
In most applications, solid-state डिवाइस ऐसे as transistors और अन्य सेमीकंडक्टर devices have replaced tubes.
solid-state डिवाइस पिछला longer और हैं छोटी, more efficient, more reliable, and cheaper than tubes.
Tubes can be fragile, sometimes generate significant unwanted heat, and can take many seconds—many minutes in critical applications—after powering on to गरम to a तापमान जहाँ वे perform भीतर operational सहिष्णुता.
However, tubes still find uses where solid-state डिवाइस have नहीं महरूम विकसित, हैं अव्यवहारिक, or जहाँ a ट्यूब रै श्रेष्ठ प्रदर्शन, as with some devices in professional audio and high-power radio transmitters.
Tubes are स्टिल उत्पादित लिये ऐसे अनुप्रयोग.
Tubes are less likely than semiconductor devices to be नष्ट by the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक पल्स उत्पादित by नाभिकीय विस्फोट and geomagnetic storms produced by giant solar flares.
Skittles is a brand of fruit-flavoured मिठाई, फिलहाल उत्पादित और marketed by the wm. Wrigley Jr. Company, a division of Mars, Inc.
They have मुश्किल शुगर शेल जिससे carry the letter S.
The inside is mainly शुगर, मकई सिरप, और hydrogenated ताड़ कर्नेल आयल साथ with fruit juice, citric acid, and natural and artificial flavours.
The confectionery रै महरूम बेची in a किस्में of फ्लेवर संग्रहण, such as Tropical and Wild Berry.
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill, ( 30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965 ) was a अंग्रेजों राजनेता जो थी the प्रधान मंत्री of the संयुक्त Kingdom from 1940 to 1945 and again from 1951 to 1955.
Widely regarded as one of the greatest wartime leaders of the 20th century, चर्चिल थी भी an अधिकारी in the अंग्रेजों फौज, a इतिहासकार, a writer, and an artist.
He is the only British Prime Minister in history to have प्राप्त the नोबेल पुरस्कार in साहित्य, और थी भी the पहला व्यक्ति to be बना an मानद Citizen of the United States.
Churchill was born into an वैभवशाली परिवार as the grandson of the 7th Duke of Marlborough.
His father, Lord Randolph Churchill, was a charismatic राजनेता जो परोसा as चांसलर of the exchequer ; उसके mother, Jennie Jerome, was an American socialite.
As a young फौज अधिकारी, he देखी कार्रवाई in अंग्रेजों इण्डिया, The Sudan, and the Second Boer War.
He gained कीर्ति as a युद्ध correspondent और wrote books about his campaigns.
At the forefront of politics for fifty सालो, he आयोजित अनेक राजनैतिक और कैबिनेट positions.
Before the First World War, he served as अध्यक्ष of the फलक of व्यापार, घर सचिव, and First Lord of the Admiralty as part of the Asquith Liberal government.
During the war, he continued as First Lord of the admiralty जबतक the विनाशकारी gallipoli Campaign caused his departure from government.
He तब briefly resumed क्रियाशील फौज सेवा on the पश्चिमी सामने as कमांडर of the 6th Battalion of the Royal Scots Fusiliers.
He returned to सरकारी as मंत्री of munitions, सचिव of State for War, and Secretary of State for Air.
After the War, Churchill served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Conservative ( Baldwin ) government of 1924–29, controversially returning the पाउंड स्टर्लिंग in 1925 to the सुनहरा मानक at इसके pre-war पैरिटी, a मूव widely देखी as बनाना deflationary दबाव on the uk अर्थव्यवस्था.
Also controversial was his विपक्ष to increased घर नियम लिये इण्डिया और उसके प्रतिरोध to the 1936 abdication of Edward VIII.
Out of office and नीतियां `` in the wilderness '' दौरान the 1930s, चर्चिल took the सीसे in warning about Nazi Germany and in campaigning for rearmament.
On the outbreak of the Second World War, he was again नियुक्त पहला रब of the admiralty.
following the इस्तीफा of नेविली चेम्बरलेन on 10 May 1940, Churchill became Prime Minister.
His वफ़ादार refusal to consider शिकस्त, आत्मसमर्पण, or a सुलह सलाम helped inspire अंग्रेजों प्रतिरोध, विशेषकर दौरान the difficult early days of the War when Britain stood alone among European countries in its active opposition to Adolf Hitler.
चर्चिल थी विशेषकर विख्यात लिये his speeches and radio broadcasts, which helped inspire the British people.
He led Britain as Prime Minister जबतक विजय over नाजी जर्मनी had been secured.
After the Conservative Party lost the 1945 election, he became Leader of the विपक्ष to the श्रमिक ( attlee ) सरकारी.
After winning the 1951 election, he again became प्रधान मंत्री, पहले retiring in 1955.
Upon his death, Elizabeth II granted उसे the इज्ज़त of a राज्य अंत्येष्टि, जिससे देखी एक of the largest assemblies of world statesmen in history.
Named the महानतम briton of सब समय in a 2002 पोल, Churchill is widely regarded as being among the most influential people in British history.
Ruby Gloom is an animated टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ आधारित on an वस्त्र मताधिकार.
The show is produced by nelvana और began airing on अक्तूबर 13, 2006 in Canada on the network YTV.
It stars the आवाज़ें of सारा gadon, एमिली हैम्पशायर, and Peter Keleghan.
The Ford Focus is a compact car ( c-segment in यूरोपीय ) manufactured by the घाट मोटर कम्पनी since 1998.
Ford began sales of the Focus to Europe in July 1998 और in उत्तर अमेरिका दौरान 1999 लिये the 2000 मॉडल साल.
In Europe, South America, North America and South Africa, the फ़ोकस replaced the विभिन्न संस्करण of the घाट अनुरक्षण sold in those markets.
In Asia and Australasia, it replaced the घाट लेज़र.
As of the first half of 2012, the फ़ोकस surpassed the टोयोटा कोरोला to become the world 's best selling automobile nameplate.
The Focus has been considered one of the 50 महानतम गाड़ियाँ of the पास्ट पचास सालो by अंग्रेजों magazine CAR.
an आगर थाली -- an उदाहरण of a bacterial growth medium.
Specifically, it is a streak plate ; the नारंगी लाइनों और dots are formed by bacterial colonies.
A growth medium or संस्कृति मीडियम is a द्रव or gel designed to support the विकास of microorganisms or cells, or small plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens.
There are अलग प्रकार of मीडिया लिये growing different types of cells.
There are two major types of growth media : those used for cell संस्कृति, जिससे उपयोग विशिष्ट कोशिका प्रकार निकला इससे पौधे or पशु, और microbiological संस्कृति, जिससे हैं प्रयुक्त लिये growing microorganisms, such as bacteria or yeast.
The most common growth media for microorganisms are nutrient broths and आगर प्लेटों ; specialized मीडिया हैं sometimes जरूरी लिये microorganism and cell culture growth.
Some organisms, termed सुकुमार जीवों, आवश्यकता specialized environments due to complex nutritional requirements.
Viruses, for उदाहरण, हैं obligate intracellular परजीवी और आवश्यकता a growth medium containing living cells.
A talent agent, or booking agent, is a person who finds jobs for actors, लेखक, फिल्मी निर्देशकों, संगीतकारों, मॉडल, निर्माता, professional athletes, writers and other people in various entertainment businesses.
An agent also defends, supports and promotes the ब्याज of his/her क्लाइंट.
Agents can not produce उनके अपना shows due to विरोध of interest.
A talent agent must be परिचित साथ उनके क्लाइंट.
An agent has to know what kind of work the client can and can not do in अनुक्रम to मैच उन्हें साथ विभिन्न jobs.
Having an एजेंट is नहीं जरूरी, लकिन करता सहायता the कलाकार in getting jobs.
in अनेक मामले ढलाई निर्देशकों, or अन्य व्यवसायों, go to talent agencies to find artists they are looking for.
The agent is paid a percentage of the स्टार 's आय ( typically 10 % ).
एजेंटों sometimes होगा be referred to as `` 10 percenters. ''
There are different regulations that govern different types of agents कि हैं स्थापित by कलाकार 's संघ और the विधिक क्षेत्राधिकार in जिससे the एजेंट operates.
There are भी पेशेवर संगठन कि अनुज्ञा talent agencies.
Since the decline in viewership in theaters, from the 1950s to 1960s, इस caused a स्मारकीय शिफ़्ट in कैसा studios होता उपज films and thus reducing the cost of exclusive and expensive actors.
Actors and अभिनेत्रियों यहूद working for the studios but were not owned by one major studio entity and so were able to work on within their time and with other studios.
Because of इस, एजेंटों यहूद अभी देखी as a necessity instead of an option.
Agents now became third parties that negotiated between studios और क्लाइंट, इस बनाना उनके सेवाएं imperative between each party.
Since talent agencies are working with lucrative contracts, all talent agencies must be licensed under special sections of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया मजदूर कोड, जिससे काल्स an एजेंट a `` व्यक्ति or निगम जो engages in the occupation of procuring, offering, होनहार, or attempting to procure employment for artist or artists. ''
Mars has two known moons, phobos और deimos, जिससे हैं विचार to be captured क्षुद्रग्रह.
Both satellites were discovered in 1877 by Asaph Hall and are named after the characters phobos ( panic/fear ) और deimos ( terror/dread ) जो, in यूनानी mythology, accompanied उनके पिता एरीस, god of war, into battle.
एरीस थी ज्ञात as मंगल to the Romans.
It is possible that Mars may have moons छोटी than 50 - 100 मीटर और a धूल रिंग between phobos और Deimos may be present but none have been discovered.
In विधि प्रवर्तन parlance, the पद हत्या किताब refers to the case file of a murder investigation.
Typically, murder books include crime scene photographs and sketches, पोस्टमार्टम और forensic रिपोर्ट्स, transcripts of जांचकर्ताओं ' टीप और witness interviews.
The murder book encapsulates the complete paper trail of a murder investigation, from the time the murder is पहला reported through the गिरफ़्तार of a suspect.
Law enforcement agencies typically guard murder books carefully, and it is unusual for civilians to be given आज़ाद अभिगम to ये kinds of रिकॉर्ड, विशेषकर for unsolved cases.
A melon baller
Melon balls are balls of melon made using a melon baller that varies from around 1 centimeter to 3 सेंटीमीटर ( परिचय 3/8 inch to 1 inch ).
They हैं generally प्रयुक्त in फल salad.
A ksa, or ज्ञान, कौशल, और abilities, is a श्रेणी of कथा कथन कि are required when applying to United States Federal government job openings.
KSAs are used to determine, साथ साथ resumes, who the best applicants are when several candidates qualify for a job.
The knowledge, skills and abilities ( KSAs ) जरुरी लिये the कामयाब प्रदर्शन of a स्थिति हैं contained on प्रत्येक जॉब रिक्ति announcement.
In 2009 the Office of Personal Management asked federal agencies to रोकें requiring जॉब आवेदकों to भरण आउट the questionnaires, to be phased out within a year.
KSAs are brief and focused essays परिचय एक 's करियर और शैक्षणिक पृष्ठभूमि कि presumably qualify one to perform the duties of the position being applied for.
A knowledge, skills, and abilities ( KSA ) is a concise निबन्ध परिचय एक 's हुनर और विशेषज्ञता और सम्बन्धित अनुभवों ( कार्य, education, volunteer ) and accomplishments.
A series of KSA statements are usually required when applying लिये सबसे संघीय सरकारी और कुछ राज्य और नगर government jobs.
KSAs are used as a yardstick to assess the capabilities of a prospective आवेदक in शर्तें of संभावित क्षमता to perform the कर्तव्य of the job.
Most government hiring officials dekh लिये a छोटी, कुरकुरे और साफ ksa कि emphasizes परिणाम or accomplishments obtained in previous work.
KSA कथन हैं भी ज्ञात as Evaluation Factors.
Other एजेंसियों sometimes कॉल उन्हें `` दरजा कारकों '', `` विशेषता रैंकिंग कारकों '', `` Knowledge, Abilities, skills and Other Characteristics '', or `` Job Elements ''.
The नाम can be बस a नाम लकिन often it influences content and length of the essay.
Every agency रै इसके अपना regulations लकिन सबसे of the समय the each KSA factor should be 1/2 to 11⁄2 pages long.
The below definitions हैं पारिभाषित by the u.S. दफ्तर of Personnel Management :
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities ( KSAs ) - The attributes required to perform a job and are generally demonstrated through qualifying सेवा, शिक्षा, or training.
Knowledge - Is a देह of सूचना लागू सीधे to the performance of a function.
Skill - Is an observable competence to perform a सीखे psychomotor act.
Ability - Is competence to perform an observable behavior or a बर्ताव कि परिणाम in an observable product.
The scoring of KSA essays is आधारित on a स्केल of इससे एक to 100.
Job applicants must score ऊपर 70 to be माना for the position.
High scores are निकला through answering the ksa सवाल as specifically as संभावित, providing उदाहरण इससे पिछला नियुक्ति or training that clearly demonstrate you meet the qualifications.
When applying to federal सरकारी स्थितियाँ, a संघीय पुनरारंभ is प्रायः जरूरी in addition to KSA statements.
सही
Whole grains are cereal grains that contain cereal germ, भ्रूणपोष, और चोकर, in कंट्रास्ट to परिष्कृत दाने, जिससे retain तभी the endosperm.
आम पूरे grains include:
गेहूं
oat
Barley - hulled और dehulled ( not Pearl )
मक्का
भूरा राइस
farro
spelt
emmer
einkorn
kamut
rye
बाजरा
quinoa
चौलाई
triticale
teff
sprouted दाने
buckwheat
Common पूरे अनाज उत्पाद include:
पूरे गेहूं flour
पूरे गेहूं Bread
पूरे wheat Pasta
Rolled जई or oat groats
triticale आटा
पॉपकॉर्न
teff आटा
Common refined non-whole अनाज उत्पाद include:
Love Always is the debut album of American R & b duo k-ci & जोजो, released on जून 17, 1997, by MCA Records.
It was recorded at विभिन्न studios in नई यॉर्क और the लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल in 1996 और 1997.
It was produced by JoJo and several others, सहित devante झूले, जेम्स mtume, और Jeff Redd.
The duo यहूद originally a भाग of Jodeci before this album.
The album peaked at sixth on the US बिलबोर्ड 200 और भी appeared on अंतरराष्ट्रीय charts.
The single `` All My Life `` charted number one in अनेक देशों, और सब चार of the एल्बम 's singles peaked ऊपर the शीर्ष 25 in the us hot R & B/Hip-Hop Songs and the New Zealand Top 40 Singles.
Love Always was received favorably by आलोचकों, जो praised the भाइयो ' गायन ability and the production.
The album has been certified three times platinum by the Recording Industry संघ of अमेरिका ( riaa ) और सुनहरा by म्यूज़िक Canada and IFPI Sweden.
As of June 1999 it had sold 2.9 लाख नक़ल in the संयुक्त राज्य.
A variable-rate mortgage, adjustable-rate बंधक ( भुजा ), or ट्रैकर बंधक is a बंधक ऋण साथ the ब्याज रेट on the नोट periodically adjusted based on an index which reflects the cost to the lender of borrowing on the credit markets.
The loan may be offered at the lender 's मानक परिवर्तनीय चूहाe/ आधार rate.
There may be a direct and legally-defined link to the underlying index, but where the lender offers no विशिष्ट कड़ी to the underlying मार्केट or अनुक्रमणिका the रेट can be changed at the lender 's discretion.
The term `` variable-rate mortgage '' is most common outside the संयुक्त राज्य, whilst in the संयुक्त राज्य, `` adjustable-rate बंधक '' is सबसे common, and implies a mortgage regulated by the Federal government, with caps on charges.
in अनेक देशों, समायोज्य रेट mortgages हैं the norm, और in such places, may simply be referred to as mortgages.
Among the most common indices are the rates on 1-year constant-maturity राजकोष ( cmt ) प्रतिभूति, the लागत of निधि Index ( COFI ), and the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ).
A few lenders उपयोग उनके अपना लागत of निधि as an अनुक्रमणिका, rather than using other indices.
इस is किया to ensure a स्थिर हाशिया लिये the lender, whose own cost of funding will usually be related to the index.
Consequently, payments made by the borrower may change over time with the बदलना ब्याज रेट ( alternatively, the पद of the ऋण may बदलें ).
This is distinct from the ग्रैजुएट भुगतान बंधक, जिससे offers बदलना भुगतान amounts but a fixed interest rate.
Other forms of mortgage loan include the interest only बंधक, the फिक्स्ड रेट बंधक, the ऋणात्मक amortization mortgage, and the balloon payment mortgage.
Adjustable rates transfer part of the ब्याज रेट रिस्क इससे the lender to the borrower.
They can be used where unpredictable interest दरों मेक फिक्स्ड रेट लोन मुश्किल to obtain.
The borrower benefits if the interest rate जलप्रपात लकिन loses if the ब्याज रेट increases.
The borrower लाभ इससे घटाया मार्जिन to the underlying cost of borrowing compared to fixed or capped rate mortgages.
The assassination of Robert Francis `` Bobby '' Kennedy, a United States Senator and brother of assassinated अध्यक्ष जॉन fitzgerald `` जोकर '' कैनेडी, took प्लेस shortly after midnight on June 5, 1968, in Los Angeles, California, during the campaign season for the United States Presidential election, 1968.
After winning the कैलिफ़ोर्निया और दक्षिण डकोटा प्राथमिक चुनावों लिये the लोकतांत्रिक nomination for President of the United States, Kennedy was shot as he walked through the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel and died in the Good Samaritan Hospital twenty-six hours later.
Sirhan Sirhan, a 24-year-old Palestinian / Jordanian अप्रवासी, थी convicted of कैनेडी 's murder and is serving a life sentence for the crime.
Sirhan 's lawyers have released कथन claiming प्रमाण कि he थी framed.
The shooting was recorded on audio tape by a freelance समाचारपत्र रिपोर्टर, और the aftermath थी captured on film.
Kennedy 's body lay in repose at St. Patrick 's गिरजाघर in नई यॉर्क लिये दो दिनों पहले a अंत्येष्टि द्रव्यमान थी आयोजित on June 8.
उसके देह थी interred निकट उसके bhai John at Arlington National Cemetery.
His death prompted the सुरक्षा of अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार by the संयुक्त States Secret Service.
ह्यूबर्ट humphrey गई on to जीत the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन for the presidency, but ultimately narrowly lost the election to Richard Nixon.
As with his brother Jack 's death, Bobby 's assassination and the हालातों surrounding it have शाखित a किस्में of षड्यंत्र theories.
As of 2013 Kennedy remains one of only two sitting United States सीनेटरों to be assassinated ( the अन्य होने Huey Long ).
The Modern Age of Comic Books is an informal name for the काल in the इतिहास of मुख्यधारा अमरीकी कॉमिक किताबे generally माना to last from the mid-1980s until present day.
In this period, comic book characters generally became darker और अधिक psychologically जटिल, creators became better-known और क्रियाशील in बदलना the industry, independent comics flourished, and larger publishing houses became more commercialized.
An alternate name for this period is the Dark Age of कॉमिक किताबे, due to the लोकप्रियता और कलाकारी influence of grim titles, such as and Watchmen.
When Harry Met सैली... is a 1989 अमरीकी रोमांटिक comedy film written by Nora Ephron and directed by Rob Reiner.
It stars Billy Crystal as हैरी और मेग रयान as Sally.
the स्टोरी फ़ॉलो the शीर्षक वर्ण from the time they meet just before sharing a cross-country drive, through twelve years or so of chance encounters in New York City.
the फिल्मी उठाता the सवाल `` can मेन और महिलाओं कभी बस be मित्रों ? '' और अग्रिम अनेक विचार परिचय संबंध कि became household concepts, such as those of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person ''.
The origins of the film came इससे reiner 's वापसी to सिंगल जीवन बाद a divorce.
An interview Ephron conducted साथ reiner provided the basis for Harry.
Sally was based on ephron और कुछ of उसके मित्रों.
Crystal came on board and made his own योगदान to the पटकथा, बनाना हैरी funnier.
Ephron supplied the structure of the film साथ much of the संवाद आधारित on the real-life दोस्ती between Reiner and Crystal.
The साउंडट्रैक consists of मानकों performed by हैरी Connick, Jr., with a big band and orchestra arranged by Marc Shaiman.
Connick won उसके पहला ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन Jazz Male Vocal Performance.
Columbia Pictures released the film using the `` platform '' technique, which involved opening it in a few select cities, letting धनात्मक शब्द of मुँह generate ब्याज, और तब धीरे expanding वितरण over subsequent weeks.
When हैरी मिले सैली... grossed a कुल of US $ 92.8 million in North America.
Ephron received a British अकादमी फिल्मी पुरस्कार, an ऑस्कर नामांकन, और a लेखक गिल्ड of अमेरिका Award nomination for her screenplay.
The film is ranked 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years... 100 हंसते सूची of the शीर्ष कॉमेडी films in अमरीकी सिनेमा और क्रमांक 60 on Bravo 's `` 100 Funniest Movies ''.
In जल्दी 2004, the फिल्मी थी adapted लिये the stage in a production starring Luke Perry and Alyson Hannigan.
200px
Hamburger हेल्पर is a लकीर of packaged खाना उत्पाद primarily consisting of boxed pasta bundled with a packet or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings.
The contents of each box हैं संयुक्त साथ browned मैदान बीफ, जल और मिल्क to create a complete dish.
The product लकीर भी सुविधाएँ उत्पाद साथ अन्य starches ऐसे as rice or potatoes instead of pasta.
it is बना by सामान्य Mills.
Although the classic boxed Hamburger Helper उत्पाद तभी सप्लाई the मंड मद और the सॉस पैकेट्स, कुछ varieties of the product include ground beef.
These include a frozen food line, which features some of the brand 's classic किस्में in a पूरा भोजन kit रूप, साथ frozen मैदान बीफ और frozen सॉस packaged separately from the noodles in the same bag.
There is also an `` instant '' version of Hamburger Helper containing निर्जलित मांस, नूडल्स और seasonings in a छोटी थैली, requiring तभी water to be added.
The Hamburger Helper mascot is the `` Helping Hand '', an anthropomorphic animated, four fingered left-hand दस्ताने, जिससे appears in the उत्पाद 's टेलीविज़न commercials and on the packages.
Ceres as देखी साथ the हबल स्पेस Telescope.
It is the only dwarf ग्रह in the क्षुद्रग्रह बेल्ट.
Pluto in approximate सच्चा रंग आधारित on हबल स्पेस Telescope albedo data
Haumea with its moons, hiʻiaka और namaka ( कलाकार 's conception )
माकेमाके ( कलाकार 's conception )
Eris and its moon dysnomia as देखी साथ the हबल Space Telescope
A dwarf planet is a planetary-mass ऑब्जेक्ट कि is neither a ग्रह nor a satellite.
More explicitly, the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defines a dwarf planet as a celestial देह in सीधा कक्षा of the सूर्य कि is विशाल पर्याप्त लिये इसके आकार to be नियंत्रित by gravitation, लकिन कि नापसंद a ग्रह has not cleared its orbital region of other objects.
The term dwarf planet was adopted in 2006 as part of a three-way categorization of bodies orbiting the Sun, brought about by an बढ़ाएँ in discoveries of trans-neptunian वस्तुएँ कि rivaled प्लूटो in आकार, और आखिरकार precipitated by the डिस्कवरी of an even more massive object, Eris.
This classification states that bodies large enough to have cleared the neighbourhood of their orbit are defined as planets, while those that हैं नहीं विशाल पर्याप्त to be rounded by उनके अपना गम्भीरता हैं पारिभाषित as छोटी सौर प्रणाली bodies.
Dwarf ग्रह आइये in between.
The exclusion of dwarf planets from the roster of planets by the IAU has been both praised and criticized ; it was said to be the `` right decision '' by Mike Brown, who discovered और अन्य नई बौना ग्रह, लकिन रै महरूम अस्वीकृत by एलन stern, जो था coined the पद बौना ग्रह in 1990.
The IAU currently recognizes five dwarf planets in the सौर प्रणाली :, Pluto,,, and.
However, only दो of ये लाशें, ceres और प्लूटो, have महरूम observed in पर्याप्त detail to demonstrate that they fit the definition.
Eris has been स्वीकृत as a बौना ग्रह क्युकी it is अधिक massive than Pluto.
The IAU subsequently decided कि बेनाम trans-neptunian वस्तुएँ साथ an निरपेक्ष परिमाण उज्जवल than +1 ( और hence a व्यास of ≥838 km assuming a geometric albedo of ≤1 ) are to be named under the assumption that they are dwarf planets.
The only two such वस्तुएँ ज्ञात at the समय, माकेमाके और हउमेया, गई through इस नामकरण कार्यविधि and were declared to be dwarf planets.
It is suspected कि another सौ or so ज्ञात वस्तुएँ in the Solar System are dwarf planets.
Estimates are that up to 200 dwarf planets may be found when the संपूर्ण प्रदेश ज्ञात as the kuiper बेल्ट is छान, और कि the क्रमांक may exceed 10,000 जब वस्तुएँ scattered outside the Kuiper belt are considered.
Individual astronomers recognize several of these, and in August 2011 Mike Brown published a list of 390 candidate objects, ranging इससे `` nearly निश्चित '' to `` संभावित '' dwarf planets. '
भूरा identifies नौ ज्ञात वस्तुएँ – the पाँच स्वीकृत by the iau प्लस,,, और – as `` वस्तुतः निश्चित '', with another two dozen highly likely, and there are probably a hundred or so such objects in total.
The classification of bodies in other planetary systems with the विशेषताएँ of बौना ग्रह रै नहीं महरूम addressed.
A debit कार्ड ( भी ज्ञात as a बैंको कार्ड or जाँच कार्ड ) is a प्लास्टिक भुगतान card that provides the cardholder electronic access to his or her bank account ( s ) at a financial institution.
Some cards have a stored value with which a payment is made, while most relay a message to the cardholder 's bank to withdraw निधि इससे a payee 's designated बैंको खाता.
The card, where accepted, can be प्रयुक्त बजाय of नकदी जब बनाना purchases.
In कुछ मामले, the प्राथमिक खाता क्रमांक is आबंटित exclusively for use on the Internet and there is no physical card.
In many countries, the use of debit cards has become so widespread that their volume has overtaken or entirely replaced cheques और, in कुछ उदाहरण, cash transactions.
The development of debit cards, unlike credit cards and charge cards, has generally been देश विशिष्ट resulting in a क्रमांक of अलग प्रणालियों around the संसार, जिससे यहूद often incompatible.
Since the mid-2000s, a number of initiatives have अनुमत डेबिट ताश जारी in एक देश to be प्रयुक्त in अन्य देशों और अनुमत उनके उपयोग for internet and phone purchases.
Unlike credit and charge cards, payments using a debit card are immediately transferred from the cardholder 's designated बैंको खाता, बजाय of उन्हें paying the धन वापस at a बाद तिथि.
Debit cards usually also allow for instant withdrawal of नकदी, एक्टिंग as the एटीएम कार्ड लिये withdrawing नकदी.
Merchants may also offer cashback facilities to ग्राहक, जहाँ a ग्राहक can withdraw cash along with their purchase.
Francois Henri `` Jack '' LaLanne ( September 26, 1914 - January 23, 2011 ) was an American fitness, exercise, and nutritional expert and प्रेरक स्पीकर जो is sometimes पुकारा `` the गॉडफादर of फ़िटनेस '' और the `` पहला फ़िटनेस सुपरहीरो. ''
He वर्णित खुद as होने a `` sugarholic '' और a `` जंक food junkie '' until he was 15.
He also had behavioral समस्याएं, लकिन `` turned उसके जीवन around '' बाद सुनना to a पब्लिक लेक्चर by Paul Bragg, a well-known nutrition speaker.
During his career, he came to believe that the country 's overall health depended on the स्वास्थ्य of इसके जनसांख्यिकी, लिखने that `` physical culture and nutrition — is the salvation of America. ''
दशकों पहले स्वास्थ्य और फ़िटनेस began होने प्रचारित by हस्तियाँ जैसे जेन फोंडा और रिचर्ड सीमन्स, lalanne थी already widely recognized for publicly preaching the health benefits of regular exercise and a good diet.
He published numerous books on fitness and hosted a fitness टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ between 1953 और 1985.
As early as 1936, at age 21, he opened one of the nation 's first fitness gyms in Oakland, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, जिससे became a प्रोटोटाइप लिये दर्जनों of समान gyms using his name.
One of his 1950s टेलीविज़न कसरत कार्यक्रम थी aimed toward महिलाओं, whom he also encouraged to join his health clubs.
he invented a क्रमांक of कसरत machines, including leg-extension and pulley devices.
Besides producing his own श्रेणी of वीडियो, he coached the बुजुर्ग और निष्क्रिय नहीं to forgo कसरत, believing it would enable them to enhance their strength.
LaLanne also gained मान्यता लिये उसके कामयाबी as a bodybuilder, as well as for his prodigious feats of strength.
Arnold Schwarzenegger once stated, `` That Jack LaLanne 's an animal !, '' after lalanne, at 54, ताल a 21-year-old श्वार्ज़नेगर `` badly '' in an informal contest.
On the occasion of LaLanne 's death, Schwarzenegger credited LaLanne for being `` an apostle for fitness '' by प्रेरणादायी `` अरबों सब over the संसार to सजीव healthier जीवनदान, '' और, as राज्यपाल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, था पहले लगाई उसे on his Governor 's Council on Physical Fitness.
Steve Reeves credited LaLanne as his प्रेरणा to निर्माण उसके muscular physique जबकि keeping a slim waist.
He was inducted to the कैलिफ़ोर्निया हॉल of कीर्ति और रै a स्टार on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Air forces of most of the देशों उपयोग प्रणाली समान to Armies.
However, the RAF and the air forces of many Commonwealth देशों, or those formerly अंतर्गत a अंग्रेजों influence, उपयोग a अलग नियत of बाँधने loosely आधारित on नवल समतुल्यता ; लेफ्टिनेंट, कमांडर, कप्तान and Commodore are prefixed for air force use with Flight, Wing, Group and Air, respectively ( the first three being the units that they used to command ).
Penélope Cruz sánchez ( ; born अप्रैल 28, 1974 ) is a Spanish actress.
Signed by an agent at age 15, वो बना उसके एक्टिंग डेब्यू at 16 on टेलीविज़न और उसके विशेषता फिल्मी डेब्यू the following year in Jamón, jamón ( 1992 ), to critical acclaim.
Her subsequent भूमिकाएँ in the 1990s और 2000s शामिल खोलें अपना आँखें ( 1997 ), The Hi-Lo Country ( 1999 ), The Girl of Your Dreams ( 2000 ) and Woman on Top ( 2000 ).
Cruz हासिल मान्यता लिये उसके सीसे भूमिकाएँ in the 2001 films Vanilla Sky and Blow.
She has since built a successful career, appearing in films from a चौड़ी दायरा of जाति, सहित the कॉमेडी waking up in रेनो ( 2002 ), the थ्रिलर gothika ( 2003 ), the क्रिसमस फिल्म नोएल ( 2004 ), और the कार्रवाई एडवेंचर Sahara ( 2005 ).
She has received critical acclaim for her roles in Volver ( 2006 ) and Nine ( 2009 ) receiving सुनहरी ग्लोब और Academy Award nominations for each.
She won the Academy Award लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री in 2008 for Vicky Cristina Barcelona.
She was the पहला स्पेनी अभिनेत्री in इतिहास to प्राप्त an अकादमी Award and the first Spanish actress to receive a star at the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Cruz has modeled for कंपनियाँ ऐसे as आम, ralph Lauren and L'Oréal.
Penélope and her younger sister Mónica Cruz have designed वस्तुएं लिये Mango.
She has donated दोनो उसके समय और धन to charities.
Cruz has volunteered in युगांडा और इण्डिया, जहाँ वो खर्च एक सप्ताह working लिये माँ टेरेसा ; वो दान her salary from ' to help fund the late nun 's mission.
A wax sculpture of Cruz होगा be लगाई in a प्रीमियर स्पॉट in the grevin मोम संग्रहालय in Paris.
File Explorer, previously ज्ञात as खिड़कियाँ एक्सप्लोरर, is a संचिका मैनेजर अनुप्रयोग और भी a navigation tool that is included with releases of the Microsoft Windows operating system from Windows 95 onwards.
It provides a graphical user इंटरफ़ेस लिये accessing the file systems.
It is also the component of the operating system that presents अनेक उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस वस्तुएं on the मॉनिटर ऐसे as the taskbar और डेस्कटॉप.
Controlling the computer is possible without Windows Explorer running ( for उदाहरण, the संचिका | चलाएं कमांड in कार्य मैनेजर on nt-derived संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ होगा फलन without it, as will commands typed in a command prompt window ).
Located in the c : \खिड़कीs निर्देशिका, it is sometimes referred to as the खिड़कियाँ शेल, explorer.exe, or simply “Explorer”.
the परवाह bears हैं वर्ण निर्मित by अमरीकी Greetings in 1981 for use on greeting cards.
The original artwork for the cards was चित्रित by कलाकार एलेना kucharik.
In 1983, Kenner turned the परवाह bears into plush teddy bears.
The Care Bears appeared in their own TV specials called The Care Bears in the Land बगैर जज्बात ( 1983 ) और the परवाह bears बैटल the फ्रीज Machine ( 1984 ).
They also had their own television series from 1985 to 1988, in addition to three feature films : The Care bears फिल्म ( 1985 ), परवाह bears फिल्म ii : a नई पीढी ( 1986 ), और the परवाह bears एडवेंचर in वंडरलैंड ( 1987 ).
Each Care Bear आता in a अलग रंग और रै a specialized तमगा on इसके पेट that represents its duty and personality.
This insignia थी ज्ञात as उनके `` tummy symbol. ''
However, the movie Care Bears : oopsy करता it ! renamed उन्हें `` पेट बैज ''.
Adding to the परवाह भालू परिवार हैं the `` परवाह भालू cousins '', जिससे विशेषता a शेर, rabbit, penguin, raccoon, and other such animals created in the same style as the teddy bears.
In 2002, the bears were reintroduced साथ नई खिलौने.
Made by Play-Along खिलौने, the नई खिलौने offered सुविधाएँ ऐसे as illuminated bellies upon touch, aerobic bears, and glow-in-the-dark bears.
As part of this comeback, the Bears have appeared in दो computer-animated फिल्मों : परवाह bears : यात्रा to joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) and The Care Bears ' Big Wish Movie ( 2005 ).
In 2007, the मताधिकार मनाये इसके 25th वर्षगांठ ; another relaunch took प्लेस, as well as the release of Care Bears : Oopsy Does It !.
In mid-2011, ag घोषित a पुनरुद्धार tv एनिमेटेड श्रेणी titled `` Care Bears : Welcome to Care-a-Lot ``.
The premiere of the series utilizes `` 30 सालो of देखभाल ''.
It premiered on The Hub on June 2, 2012.
As of 2013, Care Bears merchandise is स्टिल होने marketed.
During 2008 and 2009, Canada 's Cookie Jar समूह और फ़्रांस 's moonscoop समूह attempted to acquire the मताधिकार from AGC, with no apparent success.
Interstate 70 ( I-70 ) is an Interstate Highway in the United राज्य कि रनों इससे अंतरराज्यीय 15 निकट कोव फोर्ट, यूटा, to a पार्क और सवारी निकट बाल्टीमोर, Maryland.
It was the पहला अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रोजेक्ट in the United States.
I-70 approximately traces the पाथ of u.S. रूट 40 ( और भी the बूढ़ा नेशनल सड़क ) ईस्ट of the Rocky Mountains.
West of the rockies, the रूट of i-70 was derived from multiple sources.
i-70 is the पांचवां longest अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग, after I-90, I-80, I-40, and I-10.
The construction of I-70 in Colorado and Utah is considered an engineering marvel as the route passes through the आइज़नहावर टनल, glenwood canyon, and the San Rafael Swell.
The Eisenhower Tunnel is the highest point along the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रणाली साथ an उन्नयन of.
The sections of the अंतरराज्यीय in मिसौरी और कान्सास have रखी अर्जी to be the पहला अंतरराज्यीय in the United States.
Though disputed, the Federal Highway Administration has claimed the खण्ड of i-70 through glenwood canyon, समाप्त in 1992, थी the पिछला टुकड़ा of the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रणाली, as originally planned, to open to traffic.
Photo of 1999 कुल eclipse
As seen from the Earth, a solar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes between the सूर्य और धरती, और the चंद्रमा fully or partially ब्लॉक ( `` occults `` ) the Sun.
This can happen तभी at नई चंद्रमा, जब the सूर्य और the चंद्रमा हैं in संयोजन as seen from Earth in an alignment referred to as syzygy.
In a total eclipse, the disk of the सूर्य is fully obscured by the Moon.
In partial and annular eclipses तभी भाग of the Sun is obscured.
If the Moon were in a perfectly circular orbit, a little closer to the Earth, and in the same कक्षीय प्लेन, वहीँ होता be कुल सौर eclipses प्रत्येक सिंगल month.
however, the चंद्रमा 's कक्षा is inclined ( tilted ) at more than 5 degrees to Earth 's orbit around the Sun ( see ecliptic ) so its shadow at new moon usually misses Earth.
Earth 's orbit is पुकारा the ecliptic प्लेन as the चंद्रमा 's कक्षा जरूर क्रॉस इस प्लेन in अनुक्रम लिये an ग्रहण ( दोनो सौर as खूब as lunar ) to occur.
In addition, the Moon 's वास्तविक कक्षा is अंडाकार, प्रायः लेने it दूर पर्याप्त दूर इससे धरती that its apparent size is not large enough to block the Sun totally.
The orbital planes cross each year at a line of nodes resulting in at तनिक दो, और up to पाँच, सौर eclipses occurring प्रत्येक year ; no more than two of which can be total eclipses.
However, total solar eclipses are rare at any particular स्थान क्युकी totality exists तभी साथ a सीमित पाथ on धरती 's सतह traced by the Moon 's shadow or umbra.
An eclipse is a प्राकृतिक घटना.
Nevertheless, in some ancient and modern cultures, solar eclipses have महरूम attributed to अलौकिक कल्याणकारी or regarded as ख़राब omens.
A total solar eclipse can be frightening to लोगों जो हैं बेखबर of इसके खगोलीय स्पष्टीकरण, as the सूर्य seems to disappear during the day and the sky darkens in a matter of minutes.
Because it is खतरनाक to dekh सीधे at the सूर्य, observers चाहिए उपयोग खास नजर सुरक्षा or अप्रत्यक्ष देखने तकनीकों जब देखने a partial eclipse, or the partial phases of a total eclipse.
It is safe to दृश्य the कुल phase of a कुल सौर ग्रहण साथ the unaided eye and without protection, however.
People referred to as eclipse chasers or umbraphiles होगा सफर to रिमोट स्थितियाँ to observe or witness predicted central solar eclipses.
A political party ( from, Genitive partis, `` भाग '', `` portion '' ) is a राजनैतिक संगठन कि typically seeks to influence, or entirely कंट्रोल, सरकारी नीति, प्रायः by nominating candidates with aligned political views and trying to seat them in political office.
Parties participate in चुनावी अभियान और शैक्षणिक outreach or protest actions.
Parties often espouse an ideology or दृष्टि, expressed in a पार्टी कार्यक्रम, bolstered by a लिखा मंच with specific goals, forming a coalition among disparate interests.
The mango is a fleshy stone fruit belonging to the genus Mangifera, consisting of numerous तीव्र fruiting पेड़ in the flowering संयंत्र परिवार Anacardiaceae.
The mango is देशी to दक्षिण एशिया, इससे जहाँ it रै महरूम वितरित worldwide to become one of the most cultivated fruits in the tropics.
While other Mangifera species ( e.g. horse mango, M. foetida ) हैं भी grown on a अधिक स्थानीयकृत आधार, mangifera इंडिका – the 'common आम ' or 'इण्डियाn mango ' – is the only mango tree commonly cultivated in many tropical and subtropical regions.
It is the national fruit of India, पाकिस्तानी और फिलीपीन.
In several cultures, its fruit and leaves are ritually used as पुष्पक सजावट at विवाह, पब्लिक जश्न और धार्मिक ceremonies.
Gill Arnette Byrd, < ref name > एचटीटीपी : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/b/byrdgi00.htm ( born February 20, 1961 in San Francisco, California ) is a former professional American football player.
He थी a दो समय प्रो कटोरी cornerback in 1991 और 1992 लिये the सैन Diego Chargers after graduating from San Jose State University.
Byrd was inducted into the chargers Hall of Fame in 1998.
He was an All-City running back and defensive back at Lowell High स्कूल ( सैन फ्रांसिस्को ), helping to सीसे the कार्डिनल्स to the नगर चैंपियनशिप in उसके senior season of 1978.
World मैप प्रर्दशित the tropic of Cancer
The Tropic of Cancer, also referred to as the उत्तरी tropic, is the वृत्त of अक्षांश on the धरती कि marks the सबसे northerly स्थिति at जिससे the सूर्य may appear सीधे overhead at its zenith.
This event occurs एकबार प्रति साल, at the समय of the जून संक्रांति, जब the उत्तरी Hemisphere is tilted toward the Sun to its maximum extent.
It currently ( Year 2013 ) lies at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ उत्तर of the equator.
Its Southern Hemisphere counterpart, marking the most southerly स्थिति at जिससे the सूर्य may appear सीधे ओवरहेड, is the tropic of मकर.
These ऊष्णकटिबन्ध हैं दो of the पाँच प्रमुख उपाधि उपायों or प्रमुख वृत्त of अक्षांश कि चिह्नित मानचित्र of the Earth, besides the Arctic and Antarctic Circles and the Equator.
The positions of these वृत्त of अक्षांश ( अन्य than the equator ) हैं लिखवाई by the झुकाव of the Earth 's axis of rotation relative to the plane of its orbit.
DVD-Video is a consumer video स्वरूप प्रयुक्त to स्टोर डिजिटल वीडियो on dvd discs, and is currently the dominant consumer video format in Asia, North America, Europe, and Australia.
Discs using the dvd-video specification आवश्यकता a dvd ड्राइव और an h.262/mpeg-2 भाग 2 decoder ( e.g., a DVD player, or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ).
वाणिज्यिक dvd फिल्मों हैं एनकोडेड using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video and audio of varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ).
typically, the आंकड़ा रेट लिये dvd फिल्मों सीमाएँ इससे 3 mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s, and the bit rate is usually adaptive.
it थी पहला available for retail around 1997.
The DVD-Video specification was created by DVD Forum and can be प्राप्त इससे dvd format/logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000.
The specification is not सरेआम उपलब्धियाँ, क्युकी every subscriber must sign a non-disclosure agreement.
Certain information in the DVD Book is मालिकाना और गोपनीय.
In computing and specifically Internet, a leech is one who benefits, usually deliberately, from others ' information or प्रयत्न लकिन करता नहीं प्रस्ताव anything in वापसी, or makes तभी टोकन offerings in an attempt to avoid being called a leech.
In economics, this type of behavior is called `` फ़्री सवारी '' और is संबद्ध साथ the free rider problem.
Depending on context, leeching does not necessarily refer to illegal उपयोग of कंप्यूटर संसाधन, लकिन प्रायः बजाय to लालची उपयोग according to तहज़ीब : to wit, using too much of what is freely given without contributing a reasonable amount back to the community that provides it.
The name derives from the leech, an animal that sucks रक्त और तब कोशिशें to छोड़ unnoticed.
Other शर्तें हैं प्रयुक्त, ऐसे as `` freeloader '', but leech is the most common.
The पूरा त्रिभुज लोगो, प्रयुक्त in various versions from 1970 to 1993.
The United States Postal Service ( USPS ), also known as the Post Office and U.S. Mail, is an स्वतंत्र एजेंसी of the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी जिम्मेदार लिये providing डाक service in the United States.
It is one of the few सरकारी एजेंसियों explicitly authorized by the United States Constitution.
The USPS traces its roots to 1775 दौरान the दूसरी महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस, जहाँ बेंजामिन Franklin was appointed the first postmaster general.
The cabinet-level Post Office विभाग थी निर्मित in 1792 इससे फ्रैंकलिन 's आपरेशन और रूपांतरित into इसके वर्तमान form in 1971 under the Postal Reorganization Act.
The USPS employs over 574,000 मजदूर और operates over 260,000 vehicles.
The USPS is the ऑपरेटर of the largest गाडी fleet in the world.
The USPS is legally obligated to serve सब अमेरिकी, regardless of भूगोल, at uniform price and quality.
The USPS has exclusive access to letter boxes marked `` U.S. Mail '' and personal letterboxes in the संयुक्त राज्य, लकिन स्टिल competes विरूद्ध निजी पैकेज डिलीवरी services, such as UPS and FedEx.
The USPS has not directly प्राप्त taxpayer-dollars चूंकि the जल्दी 1980s साथ the नाबालिग एक्सेप्शन of subsidies for costs associated with the disabled and overseas voters.
Since the 2006 all-time peak mail आवाज़, बाद जिससे कॉंग्रेस passed the डाक जवाबदेही और enhancement अधिनियम ``, ( जिससे mandated $ 5.5 अरब प्रति साल to be सशुल्क into an खाता to pre-fund retiree health-care, 75 years into the future, a requirement unique among organizations and businesses in the U.S. ), revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail volume, prompting the postal service to look to other sources of revenue while cutting costs to reduce its budget deficit.
Washington, D.C. has been the पूंजी of the संयुक्त States since 1800.
Eight other cities have परोसा as the बैठक प्लेस लिये कॉंग्रेस और हैं इसलिए considered to have once been the capital of the United States.
In addition, each of the 50 U.S. राज्य और the पाँच प्रिंसिपल territories of the United States maintains its own capital.
राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड नियत in a ring
The Princess cut is the second सबसे लोकप्रिय काटें आकार लिये ईंट, अगला to a गोलाकार brilliant.
The face-up आकार of the राजकुमारी काटें is वर्गाकार or आयताकार और the profile or side-on shape is similar to that of an inverted pyramid with four beveled sides.
The princess cut is a relatively new डायमंड काटें, having महरूम निर्मित in the 1960s.
It has gained in popularity in recent years as a more distinctive alternative to the more लोकप्रिय गोलाकार शानदार काटें, in जिससे the शीर्ष of डायमंड, पुकारा the क्राउन, is काटें साथ a गोलाकार face-up shape and the bottom, called the pavilion, is shaped similar to a cone.
A princess cut with the same width as the diameter of a round brilliant will तौल अधिक as it रै चार किनारे जिससे होता वरना have महरूम काटें बंद और rounded to रूप a round brilliant.
The princess काटें is sometimes referred to as a square modified brilliant.
However, while displaying the वही ऊँची उपाधि of brilliance, इसके faceting style is unique and completely different from that of a round brilliant.
the राजकुमारी काटें था इसके origins in the जल्दी `` फ्रेंच '' काटें, having a step-modified `` double-french '' or `` क्रॉस '' काटें crown and a series of unique, chevron-shaped facets in the pavilion which combine to give a distinct cross-shaped reflection when the stone is viewed directly through the table.
Effectively, the Princess cut combines the high degree of light return of a गोलाकार शानदार काटें साथ a distinctive वर्गाकार or आयताकार आकार.
The square राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड is प्रायः थोड़ा सस्ता than गोलाकार शानदार काटें ईंट of the वही कैरेट वज़न क्युकी it retains about 80 % of the rough diamond, as opposed to the round brilliant which retains only about 50 % of the rough.
The ability to retain more क्रिस्टल वज़न makes इस आकार लोकप्रिय amongst diamond cutters.
Accredited Gem appraisers ( आगा ) और अमरीकी gem समाज प्रयोगशाला ( agsl ) और यूरोपीय gem laboratories-usa ( egl-usa ) are currently the only labs that grade the Princess cut for cut.
There is no universal definition of what measurements मेक an आदर्श राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड और अनेक डायमंड निर्माताओं मार्केट आदर्श ईंट with differing facet patterns and angles as `` ideal cut ''.
In contrast to the AGSL, AGA, and EGL-USA the Gemological Institute of America ( GIA ) has stated that there is not enough industry consensus or empirical data to specify cut grading standards for राजकुमारी काटें ईंट और to do so is at the रिस्क of उपभोक्ता जो may be धोखे by ईंट accompanied by निर्गुण आदर्श or बेहतरीन काटें ग्रेड.
The name `` Princess Cut '' थी originally प्रयुक्त in कनेक्शन साथ another डायमंड काटें, वरना ज्ञात as the `` Profile '' cut, designed by Arpad Nagy, a London cutter, in 1961.
The same name was later used and made popular by Ygal Perlman, Betzalel ambar, और इसराईल itzkowitz in इसराईल in 1979.
A similar cut with only 49 facets, as opposed to the original 58 facets of the princess cut, was later branded the `` quadrillion '' और initially वितरित by ambar ईंट in Los Angeles.
Three years of optical research yielded a वर्गाकार स्टोन साथ faceting समान to that of a round brilliant cut diamond.
A तुलना
The number of chevrons can affect the overall आउटलुक of a राजकुमारी cut diamond.
This can प्रायः be संकल्पित by the wire diagram that is plotted in diamond grading reports.
By adding more chevrons on the pavilion side of the डायमंड, the व्यक्तिगत facets of the डायमंड होगा अभी be टूटा bas into छोटी facets.
as a परिणाम, it can दे a राजकुमारी cut diamond a `` crushed ice '' look.
Vice versa, when a princess cut diamond has lesser chevrons, it tends to दे the डायमंड a चंकी outlook due to broader facets.
The घरेलू श्वान ( canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the धूसर wolf ( Canis lupus ), a member of the Canidae family of the mammalian order Carnivora.
The term `` घरेलू श्वान '' is generally प्रयुक्त लिये दोनो domesticated and feral varieties.
The dog has been the first animal to be domesticated and has been the सबसे widely रखा working, शिकार, और पालतु एनिमल in इंसान इतिहास.
The word `` dog '' may also mean the male of a canine प्रजाति, as opposed to the शब्द `` कुतिया '' लिये the female of the species.
MtDNA evidence shows an evolutionary split between the modern dog 's lineage and the modern wolf 's lineage around 100,000 सालो पहले लकिन,, the oldest चट्टान नमूनों genetically linked to the आधुनिक श्वान 's lineage तिथि to लगभग 33,000-36,000 सालो पहले.
Dogs ' value to early human hunter-gatherers led to उन्हें जल्दी बनने सर्वव्यापी आरपार संसार cultures.
Dogs perform many roles for people, such as hunting, herding, pulling loads, सुरक्षा, assisting पुलिस और सैन्य, companionship, और, more recently, aiding handicapped individuals.
This impact on human society has given उन्हें the उपनाम `` man 's बेहतरीन dost '' in the पश्चिमी संसार.
In some cultures, dogs हैं भी a सोर्स of मांस.
In 2001, वहीँ यहूद अनुमानित to be 400 लाख dogs in the world.
Most breeds of dogs are at most a few hundred years old, having been artificially चयनित लिये particular morphologies and behaviors by people for specific functional roles.
Through this selective breeding, the dog has developed into hundreds of varied breeds, and shows more behavioral और morphological विभिन्नता than कोई other land mammal.
For example, height measured to the withers सीमाएँ इससे in the चिहुआहुआ to परिचय in the आयरिश wolfhound ; रंग varies इससे श्वेत through grays ( प्रायः पुकारा `` ब्लू '' ) to ब्लैक, और भूरा इससे लाइट ( तन ) to अंधेरा ( `` red '' or `` chocolate '' ) in a wide variation of patterns ; coats can be short or long, coarse-haired to wool-like, straight, curly, or smooth.
It is common for most breeds to शेड इस coat.
Diagram of a transmission इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी
A 1973 Siemens electron microscope, musée देस कला et métiers, Paris
An electron सूक्ष्मदर्शी ( em ) is a प्रकार of सूक्ष्मदर्शी कि उपयोग an इलेक्ट्रॉन बीम to illuminate a specimen and produce a magnified image.
An EM has greater resolving शक्ति than a लाइट सूक्ष्मदर्शी और can खुलासा the ढांचा of छोटी वस्तुएँ क्युकी electrons have wavelengths about 100,000 times shorter than visible light photons.
They can achieve better than 50 pm रेज़ोल्यूशन और magnifications of up to परिचय 10,000,000x whereas ordinary, non-confocal लाइट microscopes हैं सीमित by विवर्तन to about 200 nm resolution and useful magnifications below 2000x.
The electron microscope uses electrostatic और इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक lenses to कंट्रोल the इलेक्ट्रॉन beam and focus it to form an image.
These electron optical lenses हैं analogous to the कांच lenses of a light optical microscope.
Electron microscopes are used to investigate the ultrastructure of a wide range of biological और अकार्बनिक नमूनों सहित microorganisms, कोशिकाएं, विशाल अणुओं, biopsy नमूने, धातुओं, और crystals.
industrially, the इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी is प्रायः प्रयुक्त for quality control and failure analysis.
Modern electron microscopes उपज इलेक्ट्रॉन micrographs, using specialized डिजिटल कैमरे or frame grabbers to capture the image.
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is a chain of fried मुर्गा तेज़ खाना रेस्तरां संस्थापित in 1972 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Often referred to as Popeyes and sometimes as Popeyes Chicken & बिस्कुट or popeyes मुर्गा & seafood, it थी acquired by sandy स्रोतों, जॉर्जिया -आधारd afc उद्यमों, originally America 's Favorite Chicken Company, in 1993.
According to a company press release dated June 29, 2007, Popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service chicken restaurant group, measured by number of units '', with more than 1,800 रेस्तरां in अधिक than 40 राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, और over 22 देशों विश्वव्यापी सहित तुर्कों, उत्तरी साइप्रस, बहरीन, चीन, हांग काँग, इराकी, इंडोनेशिया, जॉर्डन, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Japan, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Singapore, Canada, Jamaica, Guyana, Suriname, Mexico, Trinidad, Puerto Rico, Honduras, Vietnam, Panama, Peru, and Costa Rica.
About thirty स्थितियाँ हैं company-owned, the बाकी franchised.
The leg press is a weight training exercise in which the individual pushes a वज़न or प्रतिरोध दूर इससे उन्हें using उनके टाँगे.
the पद लेग दबायें भी refers to the apparatus used to perform this exercise.
The leg press can be used to evaluate an खिलाड़ी 's overall निम्नतर देह शक्ति ( from knee joint to hip ).
Using the तिर्यक sled-type लेग दबायें यंत्र.
There are two प्रमुख प्रकार of लेग press:
The diagonal or लंबवत 'sled ' प्रकार लेग दबायें.
Weight disks ( plates ) हैं संलग्न सीधे to the sled, जिससे is mounted on rails.
The user sits below the sled और pushes it upward साथ their feet.
These machines normally include समायोज्य सुरक्षा कोष्ठक कि prevent the user from being trapped under the weight.
The 'cable ' type leg press, or 'seated leg press ', commonly मिला on multigyms.
The उपयोक्ता sits कतरा और pushes आगे साथ उनके फीट onto a plate that is attached to the weight stack by means of a long steel cable.
Wendy विलियम्स शिकारी ( born वेन्डी जोन विलियम्स ; जुलाई 18, 1964 ) is an American media personality, actress and author.
वो होस्ट a syndicated टेलीविज़न talk show, The Wendy Williams Show.
Prior to television, Williams was a `` shock jockette `` on अनेक रेडियो shows.
Williams has gained सुर्खी लिये उसके on-air spats with celebrities.
She was the विषय of the 2006 vh1 वास्तविकता tv श्रेणी पुकारा the वेन्डी Williams Experience which broadcast events surrounding her radio show.
She has written an आत्मकथा और अनेक अन्य किताबे, and has created a product line called Adorn by Wendy Williams.
Patrick Henry `` Treason '' speech before the House of burgesses in an 1851 पेंटिंग by पीटर F. rothermel
`` Give me liberty, or दे me मौत ! '' is a quotation attributed to पैट्रिक Henry from a speech he made to the Virginia Convention.
On that day, at St. John 's Church in रिचमंड, वर्जिनिया, और is credited साथ having swung the संतुलन in convincing the वर्जिनिया हाउस of burgesses to pass a resolution delivering the Virginia troops to the Revolutionary War.
Among the delegates to the सम्मेलन यहूद भविष्य us Presidents Thomas Jefferson and George Washington.
Newfoundland and labrador (, locally ) is the easternmost province of Canada.
Situated in the country 's Atlantic प्रदेश, it incorporates the द्वीप of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और मेनलैंड Labrador to the northwest, with a combined area of.
In 2011, the प्रांत 's जनसांख्यिकी थी 514,536.
Approximately 92 percent of the province 's population lives on the Island of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड ( सहित इसके संबद्ध छोटी आइलैंड्स ), of जिससे अधिक than half live on the Avalon Peninsula.
The प्रांत is कनाडा 's सबसे linguistically homogenous, साथ 97.6 % of निवासियों रिपोर्टिंग अंग्रेज़ी ( न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड English ) as their mother tongue in the 2006 census ;.
Historically, Newfoundland was also home to unique किस्में of फ्रेंच, और आयरिश, as खूब as the now-extinct beothuk language.
In Labrador, local dialects of innu-aimun और inuktitut हैं also spoken.
न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador 's पूंजी और largest नगर, st. John 's, is Canada 's 20th-largest Census Metropolitan Area, and is home to almost 40 percent of the province 's population.
St. John 's is the seat of government, home to the House of Assembly of Newfoundland and labrador और the उच्चतम अदालत in the क्षेत्राधिकार, the न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador Court of Appeal.
A former colony and dominion of the United Kingdom, Newfoundland and Labrador became the दसवाँ प्रांत to डालें the कनाडाई कनफेडरेशन on कूच 31, 1949, as Newfoundland.
on दिसम्बर 6, 2001, an amendment थी बना to the संविधान of कनाडा to change the province 's official name to Newfoundland and Labrador.
In day-to-day conversation, however, canadians generally स्टिल refer to the प्रांत itself as न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और to the region on the Canadian mainland as Labrador.
थियोडोर `` t.r. ''
Roosevelt, Jr. ( ; October 27, 1858—January 6, 1919 ) थी the 26th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1901–1909 ).
He is noted for his exuberant personality, range of interests and उपलब्धियाँ, और उसके नेतृत्व of the प्रगतिशील गति, as खूब as उसके `` काउंटी `` persona and robust masculinity.
He was a leader of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी और संस्थापक of the पहला अवतार of the short-lived प्रगतिशील ( `` Bull Moose '' ) Party of 1912.
Before becoming President, he held offices at the नगर, राज्य, और संघीय स्तर.
रूज़वेल्ट 's उपलब्धियाँ as a naturalist, एक्सप्लोरर, शिकारी, author, and soldier are as much a part of his fame as any office he held as a politician.
Roosevelt was 42 years old when sworn in as President of the संयुक्त राज्य in 1901, बनाना उसे the youngest अध्यक्ष कभी ; he ताल आउट the youngest निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष, John F. Kennedy, by only one year.
रूज़वेल्ट थी भी the पहला of तभी तीन sitting presidents to have won the Nobel Peace Prize.
The Teddy bear is नामित बाद उसे, despite उसके अवमानना लिये होने पुकारा `` Teddy ''.
Born into a wealthy family in New York City, Roosevelt was a sickly चाइल्ड जो suffered इससे दमा और ठहरे at home studying natural history.
To overcome उसके शारीरिक कमज़ोरी, he embraced a strenuous life.
Home-schooled, he became an eager छात्र of प्रकृति.
He attended हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों, जहाँ he पढ़ाई जीवविज्ञान, boxed and developed an interest in naval affairs.
In 1881, one year out of Harvard, he was elected to the New York State सभा, जहाँ he became a नेता of the सुधार गुट of उसके रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ( the `` GOP '' ).
His The Naval War of 1812 ( 1882 ) स्थापित उसके पेशेवर प्रतिष्ठा as a गंभीर historian ; he wrote numerous books on hunting, the outdoors, and current political issues, as well as frontier history.
In 1884, his first wife and उसके माँ died on the same day.
He temporarily बाएँ राजनीती और गई to the frontier, बनने a rancher in the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas.
Returning to New York City, he ran for mayor in 1886, finishing third with 60,000 votes.
He later gained fame by लेने vigorous चार्ज of the नगर पुलिस.
at the नेशनल स्तर, he थी a leader in civil service reform.
The Spanish–American War broke out in 1898 while रूज़वेल्ट थी, effectively, कार्यशील the विभाग of the Navy.
He promptly resigned और formed the अशिष्ट राइडर्स – a स्वयंसेवी प्यादे regiment that fought in Cuba.
The war नायिका थी निर्वाचित राज्यपाल in 1898 और in 1900 was nominated for vice president.
He successfully energized the GOP base as a highly visible campaigner to reelect अध्यक्ष विलियम mckinley on a मंच of ऊँची tariffs, the सुनहरा मानक, imperialism, prosperity at home and victory abroad.
In 1901, President William mckinley थी assassinated और रूज़वेल्ट became President.
He attempted to move the Republican Party ( GOP ) toward प्रगतिवाद, सहित विश्वास busting और increased regulation of businesses.
Roosevelt became the first person elected to a term in his own right in 1904 after having ascended to the Presidency ( from the Vice-Presidency ) upon the मौत of उसके पूर्ववर्ती, जीतना the largest प्रतिशत of the लोकप्रिय vote चूंकि the uncontested election of 1820.
Roosevelt coined the phrase `` Square Deal `` to describe उसके घरेलू कार्यसूची, emphasizing कि the औसत नागरिक would get a fair share under his policies.
As an outdoorsman and naturalist, he प्रचारित the संरक्षण गति.
On the world stage, Roosevelt 's policies were characterized by उसके स्लोगन, `` बोलो softly और carry a big stick ``.
A cousin is a relative with whom a person shares one or more common पूर्वज ( s ) ( अन्य than a जनक, child/descendant, सहोदर, child/descendant of a सहोदर, or sibling of a parent/ancestor ).
however in आम parlance, `` cousin '' normally specifically means `` first cousin ''.
Systems of `` degrees '' and `` removals '' हैं प्रयुक्त in the english-speaking संसार to describe the सटीक संबंध between दो cousins ( in the व्यापक भाव ) and the ancestor they have in common.
Various governmental entities have established systems for legal use that can more precisely specify kinships with common ancestors existing any number of पीढियां in the पास्ट, हालांकि आम उपयोग प्रायः eliminates the degrees and removals and refers to people with common ancestry as simply `` distant cousins '' or `` relatives ''.
Webster is an अमरीकी हालात कॉमेडी कि aired on एबीसी इससे सितंबर 16, 1983 जबतक may 8, 1987, and in first-run syndication from September 21, 1987 until March 10, 1989.
The series was निर्मित by stu चांदी.
The show stars Emmanuel Lewis in the title role as a young boy who, after losing his parents, is अपनाया by उसके एनएफएल -pro गॉडफादर, portrayed by एलेक्स karras, और उसके नई socialite बीवी, निभाई by Susan Clark.
The focus was largely on how this impulsively शादीशुदा युगल था to समायोजन to उनके नई जीवनदान और अचानक parenthood, but it was the congenial Webster himself who drove much of the plot.
The series was produced by Georgian Bay Ltd., emmanuel लुईस entertainment उद्यमों, inc. ( 1986-1989 ) and Paramount Television.
Like NBC 's earlier hit Diff'rent स्ट्रोक्स, वेबस्टर प्रदर्शित a यंग african-american लड़के अपनाया by a श्वेत परिवार.
Three प्रकार of कोशिका division
Cell division is the process by जिससे a जनक कोशिका divides into दो or more daughter cells.
Cell division usually occurs as भाग of a larger कोशिका साईकिल.
In eukaryotes, there are two distinct type of cell division : a vegetative division, whereby each daughter cell is genetically एकसमान to the जनक कोशिका ( समसूत्रण ), और a reductive कोशिका प्रभाग, whereby the क्रमांक of गुणसूत्रों in the बेटी cells is reduced by half, to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis ).
Both of these cell division cycles are required in sexually reproducing जीवों at कुछ पाइंट in उनके जीवन साईकिल, और दोनो हैं believed to be उपस्थित in the पिछला eukaryotic आम पूर्वज prokaryotes भी undergo a vegetative cell division known as binary fission, where their genetic material is segregated equally into two daughter cells.
All cell divisions, regardless of सजीव, हैं preceded by a सिंगल round of DNA replication.
For simple unicellular organisms such as the amoeba, एक कोशिका प्रभाग is समतुल्य to जनन – an संपूर्ण new organism is created.
On a larger scale, mitotic कोशिका प्रभाग can बनाएँ progeny इससे बहुकोशिकीय organisms, such as plants that grow from cuttings.
Cell प्रभाग भी enables sexually reproducing जीवों to develop इससे the one-celled zygote, which itself was produced by cell division from gametes.
And after growth, कोशिका प्रभाग allows लिये continual निर्माण and repair of the organism.
A human being 's body अनुभवों परिचय 10,000 खरब कोशिका विभाजन in a lifetime.
Cell प्रभाग रै महरूम modeled by परिमित subdivision rules.
The primary concern of कोशिका प्रभाग is the मेंटेनेंस of the असली cell 's genome.
Before division can occur, the genomic information that is stored in गुणसूत्रों जरूर be replicated, और the duplicated genome must be separated cleanly between cells.
A great deal of cellular infrastructure is involved in keeping genomic सूचना सतत between `` generations ''.
Mountain ranges of मैसाचुसेट्स, संयुक्त States.
हावर्ड जोन्स ( born जॉन हावर्ड जोन्स, 23 February 1955, Southampton, Hampshire, England ) is a British musician, singer and songwriter.
According to the Guinness Book of British Hit Singles & Albums, `` Jones is an accomplished singer-songwriter who was a नियमित चार्ट आगंतुक in the mid-1980s साथ उसके brand of synthpop.
Jones, who थी बराबर लोकप्रिय in the u.S., appeared at Live Aid ``.
Allmusic journalist, स्टीफन थामस erlewine adds, `` जोन्स थी one of the defining figures of mid-1980s synthpop.
His music merged the technology intensive sound of नई वेव साथ the cheery आशावाद of hippies और लेट 1960s pop.
Jones racked up a स्ट्रिंग of हिट्स in the मिड और लेट 1980s, before he retreated into being a cult figure in the 1990s ''.
The International Isle of Man tt ( पर्यटक ट्रॉफी ) रेस is a मोटरसाइकिल रेसिंग इवेंट held on the Isle of Man and was for many years the most prestigious motorcycle race in the world.
The event was part of the FIM Motorcycle Grand Prix World Championship during the period 1949–1976 पहले होने transferred to the संयुक्त किंगडम बाद सुरक्षा चिंताएं और चलाएं by the fim as the अंग्रेजों ग्रैंड Prix for the 1977 season.
The Isle of Man TT Races became part of the TT Formula 1 चैंपियनशिप इससे 1977 to 1990 to बचाना the इवेंट 's रेसिंग औकात.
From 1989 the racing has been विकसित by the आइल of man विभाग of पर्यटन as the Isle of Man TT Festival.
The race is run in a time-trial स्वरूप on पब्लिक सड़कें बंद लिये रेसिंग by the प्रावधानों of an Act of Tynwald ( the parliament of the Isle of Man ).
The first race was held on Tuesday 28 May 1907 और थी पुकारा the अंतरराष्ट्रीय Auto-Cycle Tourist Trophy.
The event was संगठित by the auto-cycle क्लबों over 10 गोद of the st जॉन 's छोटी कोर्स of 15 मील 1,470 गज for road-legal touring motorcycles with exhaust silencers, saddles, pedals and mud-guards.
The winner of the single-cylinder class, and overall winner of the first event in 1907, was Charlie collier सवारी a matchless मोटरसाइकिल in a समय of 4 घंटों, 8 मिनट्स और 8 सेकेंड at an औसत race speed of 38.21 mph.
The winner of the twin-cylinder class was Rem fowler सवारी a peugeot एंजिन नॉर्टन in a समय of 4 घंटों 21 मिनट्स और 52 सेकेंड at an average race speed of 36.21 mph.
The trophy प्रस्तुत to चार्ली collier as the विजेता of the 1907 आइल of man TT Race, was donated by the Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars.
It featured a stylised version of Olympic God Hermes by Giovanni Da Bologna as a चांदी figurine astride a winged व्हील.
The trophy was similar in design to the 18 carat gold Montague Trophy presented to John Napier ( Arrol-Johnston ) as the inaugural winner of the आइल of man पर्यटक ट्रॉफी car रेस in 1905 अभी ज्ञात as the RAC Tourist Trophy.
the बिल्ले de mouzilly st. मंगल Trophy is now presented annually to the winner of the Isle of Man Senior TT Motor-Cycle Race.
The 2007 Isle of Man TT was the Centenary event which ran between 26 May and 8 June 2007 and featured a special Re-enactment of the 1907 आइल of man tt रेस आयोजित on the गाँव ग्रीन अगला to Tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007.
The vintage parade of 100 classic motorcycles for the centenary re-enactment on the असली st जॉन 's छोटी कोर्स थी flagged दूर by former World Motor-Cycle Champion Geoff Duke.
The first of the participants to be flagged away was the recently restored twin-cylinder peugeot-norton ridden by rem fowler दौरान the पहला आइल of man tt रेस in 1907.
Also participating in the 2007 Re-enactment was TT रेस प्रतिस्पर्धी guy मार्टिन सवारी a 1938 triumph बाघ 100 500 cc और अन्य पूर्व TT competitors including Alan Cathcart, Sammy Miller, Nick Jefferies and Mick Grant also completed the Re-enactment lap.
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or joblessness ) occurs जब लोगों हैं बगैर कार्य and actively seeking work.
The unemployment rate is a measure of the prevalence of unemployment और it is गणना as a प्रतिशत by dividing the क्रमांक of unemployed individuals by all individuals currently in the labor force.
दौरान अवधि of मंदी, an अर्थव्यवस्था usually experiences a relatively high unemployment rate.
According to International Labour Organization report, more than 197 million people globally are आउट of कार्य or 6 % of the संसार 's workforce यहूद बगैर a जॉब in 2012.
There remains considerable सैद्धांतिक बहस regarding the कल्याणकारी, consequences and solutions for unemployment.
Classical economics, New classical अर्थशास्त्र, और the आस्ट्रिया स्कूल of अर्थशास्त्र argue कि मार्केट mechanisms हैं reliable means of resolving unemployment.
These theories argue विरूद्ध interventions imposed on the मजदूर मार्केट इससे the बाहर, ऐसे as unionization, minimum wage laws, taxes, and other regulations that they claim discourage the hiring of workers.
Keynesian अर्थशास्त्र emphasizes the cyclical प्रकृति of बेरोजगारी और अनुशंसा सरकारी interventions in the economy that it claims will reduce unemployment during recessions.
This theory focuses on तूल झटके कि एकाएक reduce aggregate demand for goods and services and thus reduce demand for workers.
keynesian मॉडल सुझाएँ सरकारी interventions designed to बढ़ाएँ demand for workers ; these can include financial stimuli, publicly funded job creation, and expansionist monetary policies.
in जोड to ये व्यापक theories of बेरोजगारी, वहीँ हैं a few categorizations of unemployment that are used to more precisely model the effects of unemployment within the economic system.
The main types of unemployment include structural unemployment which focuses on structural problems in the economy और inefficiencies अंतर्निहित in श्रमिक बाज़ार, सहित a बेमेल between the सप्लाई और माँग of laborers साथ जरुरी कौशल सेट.
Structural arguments emphasize कल्याणकारी और समाधान सम्बन्धित to विघटनकारी technologies and globalization.
Discussions of frictional unemployment focus on voluntary निर्णय to कार्य आधारित on प्रत्येक individuals ' valuation of उनके अपना कार्य और how that compares to current wage rates plus the time and effort required to find a job.
Causes and solutions for frictional unemployment प्रायः पता जॉब प्रविष्टि दहलीज और wage rates.
behavioral अर्थशास्त्रियों हाइलाइट व्यक्तिगत biases in निर्णय बनाना, और प्रायः involve समस्याएं और solutions concerning sticky wages and efficiency wages.
Collectivism is any philosophic, political, religious, economic, or social outlook that emphasizes the interdependence of प्रत्येक इंसान होने in a समाज or सभ्यता.
Collectivism is a basic cultural element that exists as the reverse of व्यक्तिगत in इंसान प्रकृति ( in the वही रास्ता ऊँची कॉन्टेक्स्ट संस्कृति exists as the reverse of low context culture ).
collectivist orientations तनाव the महत्व of मिलाप भीतर सोशल समूह ( ऐसे as an `` in-group '', in what specific context it is defined ) and in some cases, the priority of group goals over individual goals.
collectivists प्रायः फ़ोकस on जातियाँ, society, nation or country.
It has been used as an element in many different and diverse types of government and political, economic and educational philosophies throughout history and most human समाजों in अभ्यास contain तत्व of दोनो व्यक्तिगत और collectivism.
Some examples of collectivist संस्कृतियों शामिल India and Japan.
Collectivism can be विभाजित into आड़ा collectivism and vertical collectivism.
Horizontal collectivism तनावों सामूहिक decision-making among equal individuals, and is thus usually based on decentralization and egalitarianism.
Vertical collectivism is based on hierarchical structures of power और on moral और सांस्कृतिक conformity, और is इसलिए आधारित on centralization and hierarchy.
A सहकारी एंटरप्राइज़ होता be an उदाहरण of आड़ा collectivism, whereas a military hierarchy would be an example of vertical collectivism.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ( adem ) is an immune mediated disease of the brain.
It usually occurs following a वाइरल संक्रमण लकिन may appear following टीकाकरण, बैक्टीरियल or parasitic infection, or even appear spontaneously.
As it involves autoimmune demyelination, it is similar to अनेक काठिन्य, और is माना भाग of the अनेक काठिन्य borderline diseases.
The incidence rate is about 8 प्रति 1,000,000 लोगों per year.
हालांकि it occurs in सब आयु, सबसे reported मामले हैं in children and adolescents, with the average age around 5 to 8 years old.
The mortality rate may be as high as 5 %, full recovery is seen in 50 to 75 % of cases, while up to 70 to 90 % रिकवर साथ कुछ नाबालिग अवशेष disability.
The औसत समय to रिकवर is one to six months.
ADEM produces multiple inflammatory lesions in the brain and spinal cord, विशेषकर in the white matter.
Usually these are found in the subcortical and central white matter and cortical gray-white junction of both cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum, brainstem, and spinal cord, लकिन periventricular श्वेत पदार्थ और धूसर पदार्थ of the cortex, thalami और basal ganglia may भी be involved.
When the रोगी पीड़ित अधिक than एक demyelinating एपीसोड, it is पुकारा तूल disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( MDEM ).
The stomach is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the digestion system which कृत्यों as an महत्वपूर्ण अंग of the digestive ट्रैक्ट in कुछ animals, including vertebrates, echinoderms, insects ( mid-gut ), and molluscs.
It is शामिल in the दूसरी phase of digestion, following mastication ( chewing ).
The stomach is स्तिथ between the esophagus and the small intestine.
It secretes protein-digesting enzymes called protease and strong acids to aid in food digestion, ( भेजा to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through चिकना muscular contortions ( पुकारा segmentation ) before sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the small intestines.
The word stomach is निकला इससे the लैटिन stomachus जिससे is निकला इससे the यूनानी word stomachos ( στόμαχος ), ultimately from stoma ( ), `` mouth ''.
The words gastro- और gastric ( अर्थ सम्बन्धित to the पेट ) हैं both derived from the Greek word gaster ( ).
1940 Pontiac खास श्रेणी 25 woodie
A woodie is a car body style, विशेषकर a स्टेशन वैगन, जहाँ the पश्च bodywork is constructed of wood framework with infill panels of wood or painted metal.
After the demise of actual wood construction, निर्माताओं प्रयुक्त अनुकरण woodgrain चादर vinyl—sometimes augmented साथ three-dimensional, अनुकरण framework—to recall wood construction.
In 2008, wood construction was जगाई abstractly on the घाट फ्लेक्स साथ a श्रेणी of side and rear horizontal grooves.
A pearl is a hard object produced within the soft tissue ( specifically the mantle ) of a जीना shelled mollusc.
Just like the shell of a clam, a pearl is made up of कैल्सियम कार्बोनेट in मिनट crystalline रूप, which has been deposited in concentric layers.
The ideal pearl is perfectly round and चिकना, लकिन अनेक अन्य आकार of मोती ( बरॉक pearls ) occur.
The finest quality natural pearls have been highly valued as रत्नों और वस्तुएँ of सौंदर्य लिये अनेक सदियां, और क्युकी of इस, the शब्द पर्ल has become a metaphor for something very rare, fine, admirable, and valuable.
The most valuable pearls occur अनायास in the जंगली, लकिन वे हैं अत्यधिक rare.
These wild pearls are referred to as प्राकृतिक मोती.
Cultured or farmed pearls from pearl oysters and freshwater mussels मेक up the बहुमत of those कि हैं फिलहाल sold.
Imitation pearls are also widely sold in inexpensive jewelry, लकिन the विशेषता of उनके iridescence is प्रायः बहुत ग़रीब, और प्रायः, कृत्रिम मोती हैं easily distinguished from genuine pearls.
मोती have महरूम harvested और cultivated primarily लिये उपयोग in आभूषण, लकिन in the past they were also stitched onto lavish clothing.
Pearls have also been crushed and used in कॉस्मेटिक्स, दवाइयाँ, और in पेंट formulations.
Whether wild or संस्कारी, gem विशेषता मोती हैं लगभग always nacreous and, as is the interior of the shell that produces them.
However, almost all species of shelled molluscs हैं सक्षम of producing मोती ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by some sources ) of lesser shine or less spherical shape.
Although these may also be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological labs and also अंतर्गत u.S. संघीय व्यापार आयोग नियम, और हैं formed in the वही रास्ता, सबसे of उन्हें have no मान, मगर as curiosities.
Bing ( known previously as सजीव ढूंढें, खिड़कियाँ सजीव ढूंढें, और एमएसएन ढूंढें ) is a वेब search engine ( advertised as a `` decision engine `` ) from Microsoft.
Bing was unveiled by Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer on May 28, 2009 at the सब बाते डिजिटल सम्मेलन in सैन डिएगो लिये रिलीज on जून 1.
notable परिवर्तन शामिल the लिस्टिंग of ढूंढें suggestions while queries are entered and a list of related searches ( called `` Explore pane '' ) based on semantic technology from Powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008.
On July 29, 2009, Microsoft और याहू ! घोषित a सौदे in जिससे bing होता शक्ति Yahoo ! Search.
All Yahoo ! Search global customers and partners are अपेक्षित to have बना the परिवर्तन by early 2012.
In October 2011, Bing announced it was working on new back-end ढूंढें अवसंरचना, साथ the लक्ष्य of delivering तेज़ और थोड़ा अधिक प्रासंगिक search results for users.
Known as `` Tiger '', the new index-serving technology has been incorporated into bing globally, चूंकि अगस्त 2011.
In May 2012, Bing announced another redesign of its ढूंढें इंजन कि शामिल `` साइडबार '', a सोशल विशेषता that searches users ' social networks for information relevant to the search query.
A diagram प्रर्दशित an i गठन on ठोकर और a 4-3 गठन on defense
In American फ़ुटबॉल, प्रत्येक टोली रै ग्यारह खिलाड़ी on the field at one time.
The specific role that a player takes on the फ़ील्ड is पुकारा उनके स्थिति.
Under the modern rules of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल, टीमों हैं अनुमत असीमित subsititutions, कि is teams may change any number of players after any play.
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players, the offense ( the टोली साथ the बॉल, जो is trying to स्कोर ), the रक्षा ( the टोली trying to prevent the अन्य टोली इससे स्कोरिंग, और to लो the बॉल इससे उन्हें ), और the खास टीमों ( who play in kicking situations ).
Within those platoons, विभिन्न विशिष्ट स्थितियाँ मौजूद depending on what the player 's main job is.
The Irish people ( or na hÉireannaigh ; Ulster-Scots : airish fowk ) हैं an जातीय समूह जो originate in Ireland, an island in northwestern Europe.
Ireland has been populated for around 9,000 years ( according to पुरातत्व अध्ययन, देखिए प्रागैतिहासिक आयरलैंड ).
The Irish people 's earliest ancestors are recorded in महापुरूष – वे हैं claimed to be descended इससे समूह ऐसे as the nemedians, Fomorians, Fir Bolg, Tuatha Dé Danann and the Milesians.
Lebor Gabála Érenn, a book of Irish mythology tells कि milesians यहूद स्काइथियन वंशजों.
The main groups that interacted with the Irish in the मध्य आयु शामिल the picts, स्कॉट्स, and the Vikings.
Due to this contact, icelanders हैं विख्यात लिये having some Irish descent.
The Anglo-Norman invasion of the High Middle Ages, the English plantations and the subsequent अंग्रेज़ी नियम of the देश introduced the normans और फ्लेमिश into Ireland.
वेल्श, picts, bretons, और छोटी पार्टियों of Gauls and even Anglo-Saxons are known in Ireland from much earlier times.
There have been many notable आयरिश लोगों throughout इतिहास.
The 6th century Irish monk and missionary Columbanus is regarded as one of the `` fathers of यूरोपीय '', followed by kilian of würzburg and Vergilius of Salzburg.
The scientist रॉबर्ट बॉयल is माना the `` father of chemistry ``.
Famous Irish explorers शामिल Brendan the Navigator, Robert McClure, Ernest Shackleton and Tom Crean.
By some accounts, the first European child born in North America had Irish descent on both sides ; and an irishman थी the पहला यूरोपीय to नियत पैर on American soil in Columbus ' expedition of 1492.
There are descendants of Irish people जीना in अनेक पश्चिमी देशों, विशेषकर in english-speaking countries.
Historically, emigration has been caused by राजनीती, अकाल और आर्थिक issues.
An estimated 50 to 80 million people are descendants of Irish people, primarily in the United Kingdom, the United States, Australia, Canada and Iceland ; वहीँ हैं भी छोटी संख्याएँ in अर्जेंटीना, चिली, मैक्सिको, जमैका, बारबाडोस, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, New Zealand, France, Germany and Brazil.
The largest number of descendants of Irish लोगों सजीव in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The number of people living in ऑस्ट्रेलिया जो हैं of आयरिश descent is उच्चतर, as a प्रतिशत of कुल जनसांख्यिकी, than that of any other country.
Approximately forty percent of the उपनिवेश जनसांख्यिकी of आइसलैंड आए इससे आयरलैंड or स्कॉटलैंड.
The very first निवासियों of आइसलैंड were Irish.
The Hubble Space Telescope ( HST ) is a space telescope that थी carried into कक्षा by a स्पेस शटल in 1990 and remains in operation.
A aperture telescope in कम धरती कक्षा, हबल 's चार प्रमुख यंत्र observe in the near ultraviolet, visible, and near infrared.
The telescope is named बाद the astronomer एडविन Hubble.
Hubble 's orbit outside the distortion of धरती 's माहौल allows it to लो अत्यधिक sharp images with almost no background light.
Hubble 's गहन फ़ील्ड have महरूम कुछ of the सबसे विस्तृत visible-light images ever, allowing a deep view into space and time.
Many Hubble observations have led to सफलताएँ in astrophysics, ऐसे as accurately determining the rate of expansion of the universe.
Although not the first space telescope, Hubble is one of the largest and most बहुमुखी, और is खूब ज्ञात as दोनो a vital शोध औजार और a पब्लिक संबंध बून लिये खगोलशास्त्र.
The HST was built by the United States space agency NASA, with contributions from the European स्पेस एजेंसी, और is संचालित by the स्पेस दूरदर्शी विज्ञान Institute.
The HST is one of NASA 's Great observatories, साथ साथ the कॉम्पटन गामा रे वेधशाला, the चन्द्रा x-ray Observatory, and the Spitzer Space Telescope.
स्पेस telescopes यहूद proposed as early as 1923.
Hubble was funded in the 1970s, साथ a प्रस्तावित लॉन्च in 1983, लकिन the प्रोजेक्ट थी घिरा by तकनीकी देरी, budget problems, and the Challenger disaster.
When finally launched in 1990, scientists found कि the प्रमुख दर्पण था महरूम मैदान incorrectly, compromising the telescope 's capabilities.
The दूरदर्शी थी लौटी to इसके intended quality by a servicing mission in 1993.
Hubble is the only telescope designed to be सर्विस in स्पेस by astronauts.
Between 1993 and 2002, four missions repaired, upgraded, और replaced प्रणालियों on the दूरदर्शी ; a पांचवां मिशन थी रद्द on safety grounds following the Columbia disaster.
However, after spirited public discussion, NASA व्यवस्थापक माइक griffin स्वीकृत एक फाइनल सर्विसिंग मिशन, समाप्त in 2009 by Space Shuttle Atlantis.
The telescope is now expected to फलन जबतक at तनिक 2013.
Its scientific successor, the James Webb Space Telescope ( JWST ), is to be शुभारम्भ in 2018 or संभवतः बाद.
Anti-inflammatory refers to the प्रॉपर्टी of a पदार्थ or उपचार that reduces inflammation.
anti-inflammatory दवाएँ मेक up परिचय हाफ of analgesics, remedying pain by reducing inflammation as opposed to opioids, which affect the central nervous system.
The Tonight Show is a US late-night talk show that has aired on एनबीसी चूंकि 1954.
It is the longest फिलहाल कार्यशील regularly अनुसूचित entertainment कार्यक्रम in the US and the third longest-running show on NBC after Meet the Press and Today.
The Tonight Show was hosted by Steve Allen ( 1954–1957 ), Jack Paar ( 1957–1962 ), Johnny Carson ( 1962–1992 ), jay लीनो ( 1992–2009, 2010–present ), and Conan O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ).
Several guest hosts also appeared, particularly दौरान the paar और कार्सन eras.
The longest-serving मेजबान to तिथि थी जॉनी कार्सन, who hosted The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson for 30 seasons from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1992.
The current host of the show is Jay Leno, who had previously hosted the दिखाएँ इससे 1992 to 2009 और began उसके दूसरी कार्यकाल on March 1, 2010.
On April 3, 2013, एनबीसी घोषित jimmy fallon होता become the new host of The Tonight Show.
The Tonight Show साथ jimmy fallon होगा प्रीमियर फ़रवरी 24, 2014, the दिन बाद the closing ceremonies of the 2014 Winter Olympics.
ss एंड्रिया Doria.
Pronounced was an ocean liner for the Italian Line ( Società di navigazione Italia ) home ported in जेनोआ, इटली, सबसे प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके डूब in 1956, जब 52 लोगों died ( 51 इससे तात्कालिक impact ).
Named after the 16th-century Genoese admiral Andrea Doria, the ship had a सकल पंजीकरण tonnage of 29,100 और a क्षमता of परिचय 1,200 passengers and 500 crew.
For a country attempting to rebuild इसके अर्थव्यवस्था और प्रतिष्ठा बाद संसार युद्ध ii, Andrea Doria was an icon of Italian national pride.
of सब इटली 's जहाजों at the समय, एंड्रिया डोरिया थी the largest, fastest and supposedly safest.
Launched on 16 June 1951, the जलयान undertook इसके maiden voyage on 14 January 1953.
On 25 जुलाई 1956, जबकि the एंड्रिया डोरिया थी approaching the coast of nantucket, मैसाचुसेट्स, bound for New York City, the eastbound of the Swedish American Line collided with it in what became one of history 's most infamous maritime disasters.
Struck in the side, the top-heavy Andrea Doria immediately प्रारंभ to सूची severely to स्टारबोर्ड, जिससे बाएँ हाफ of इसके lifeboats unusable.
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant loss of life, but the दक्षता of the जलयान 's तकनीकी डिज़ाइन अनुमत it to रहो afloat लिये over 11 घंटों बाद the ramming.
The good behavior of the crew, सुधार in संचार और the रैपिड जवाब of अन्य जहाजों averted a disaster similar in scale to that of the in 1912.
1,660 passengers and crew were बचाया और बच, जबकि 46 लोगों died as a consequence of the collision.
the evacuated लक्ज़री लाइनर capsized और sank the following morning.
This accident remains the worst मेरीटाइम विपत्ति to occur in संयुक्त States waters since the sinking of the in 1915.
The incident and its aftermath यहूद heavily covered by the news media.
While the rescue efforts were both कामयाब और commendable, the कारण of the टक्कर साथ the स्टॉकहोम और the घाटा of एंड्रिया डोरिया उत्पन्न much interest in the media and many lawsuits.
Largely because of an out-of-court settlement agreement between the दो शिपिंग कंपनियाँ दौरान hearings तत्काल बाद the विपत्ति, no determination of the cause ( s ) was ever formally published.
Although greater blame appeared initially to fall on the Italian liner, अधिक हाल discoveries have indicated कि a misreading of रडार on the स्वीडिश जलयान may have initiated the collision course, leading to errors on both ships.
Andrea Doria was the last major transatlantic यात्री पोत to डूबना पहले aircraft became the preferred method of travel.
डायलिसिस tubing
Dialysis tubing is a type of semi- or partially permeable membrane tubing बना इससे regenerated cellulose or cellophane.
It can be used for diffusion with solutes or परासरण if प्रयुक्त साथ जल तभी.
Osmosis is when water गुजरता through a semi-permeable layer to reach equilibrium.
diffusion, on the अन्य हाथ, allows the movement of molecules from high concentration to low concentration.
It will only allow molecules to pass through a semi-permeable झिल्ली or परत if the अणु is छोटी पर्याप्त to fit through the membrane or a membrane 's pore.
This usually results with the effects of diffusion through a झिल्ली तभी वाकई affects छोटी अणुओं, और almost never larger molecules.
Dialysis tubing is used in clinical हालातों to ensure a filtered प्रवाह of अणुओं, preventing the प्रवाह of larger solute molecules.
Small molecules can be `` washed '' out of a solution which is उत्तेजित through the tubing into a solvent, प्रायः जल, जिससे surrounds it and in which they can be flushed away.
In demonstrations of semi-permeable membranes, a solution containing several types of molecules, usually glucose and starch, is placed into a semi-permeable डायलिसिस थैला, ऐसे as a cellulose झिल्ली साथ छिद्र, और the थैला is sealed साथ a knot or elastic band.
The sealed डायलिसिस थैला is लगाई in a संग्राहक of a different solution, or water.
अणुओं छोटी पर्याप्त to pass through the tubing ( जल, लवण, monosaccharides, और अन्य छोटी अणुओं ) tend to मूव into or out of the dialysis bag in the direction of decreasing concentration, therefore displaying diffusion.
Larger molecules ( such as proteins, or polysaccharides ) कि have आयाम significantly वृहद than the pore diameter are retained inside the dialysis bag.
The water and smaller solutes in a hypotonic solution ( a solution that has a lesser solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to ) will cross a semi-permeable membrane, like dialysis tubing, into a hypertonic solution ( a solution that has a उच्चतर solute विशेषज्ञता than the समाधान it is संदर्भित to ) in an attempt to पहुँचें संतुलन, जहाँ the solute विशेषज्ञता of प्रत्येक समाधान is in संतुलन.
पारा प्रयोगशाला thermometer
A थर्मामीटर ( इससे the यूनानी, thermos, अर्थ `` hot '' और μἐτρον, metron, `` measure '' ) is a device that measures temperature or temperature gradient using a variety of different principles.
A thermometer has two important elements : the temperature sensor ( e.g. the bulb on a mercury-in-glass थर्मामीटर ) in जिससे कुछ शारीरिक बदलें occurs साथ तापमान, प्लस कुछ अर्थात् of converting इस शारीरिक बदलें into a numerical मान ( e.g. the visible scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ).
There are many types and many uses लिये thermometers, as विस्तृत नीचे in sections of this article.
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is a 1937 अमरीकी एनिमेटेड musical काल्पनिक फिल्मी उत्पादित by Walt Disney and released by RKO Radio Pictures.
Based on the German fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm, it is the first full-length cel एनिमेटेड विशेषता फिल्मी और the earliest in the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड क्लासिक series.
The story was adapted by storyboard artists डोरोथी ऐन रिक्त, रिचर्ड creedon, मेरिल de मारिस, ओटो englander, अर्ल hurd, लंड rickard, टेड सियर्स and Webb Smith.
David Hand was the supervising director, while William cottrell, विल्फ्रेड जैक्सन, लैरी morey, perce pearce, और बेन sharpsteen निर्देशित the film 's individual sequences.
Snow White premiered at the Carthay Circle Theatre on December 21, 1937, followed by a nationwide release on February 4, 1938, and with international earnings of $ 8 million during its आरंभिक रिलीज briefly assumed the रिकार्ड of उच्चतम grossing ध्वनि फिल्मी at the समय.
The popularity of the film रै led to it होने re-released theatrically अनेक टाइम्स, जबतक इसके घर वीडियो release in the 1990s.
Adjusted for inflation, it is one of the शीर्ष टेन performers at the North American box office.
At the 11th Academy Awards, Walt डिज़्नी थी awarded an मानद ऑस्कर, and the film was nominated for Best Musical Score.
It was added to the United States National Film Registry in 1989 and is क्रमित in the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's सूची of the 100 greatest American films, who also named the film as the greatest American animated film of all time in 2008.
Disney 's take on the fairy tale has had a big cultural impact, resulting in a popular theme पार्क आकर्षण, a वीडियो खेल, और a ब्रॉडवे musical.
Childbirth, labour, delivery, birth, partus, or parturition is the culmination of a गर्भावस्था काल साथ the expulsion of एक or अधिक नवजात infants from a woman 's uterus.
The process of normal childbirth is categorized in three stages of श्रमिक : the shortening और dilation of the ग्रीवा, descent और जनम of the infant, and birth of the placenta.
In many cases and with increasing frequency, childbirth is achieved through प्रेरण of मजदूर or caesarean खण्ड, जिससे is the हटाना of the neonate through a सर्जिकल incision in the उदर, बल्कि than through vaginal birth.
Childbirth by C-Sections increased 50 % in the U.S. from 1996 to 2006, और comprise nearly 32 % of births in the U.S. and Canada.
With respect to induced labor, अधिक than 22 % of महिलाओं undergo प्रेरण of श्रमिक in the United States.
Medical professional policy makers ढूँढें कि induced births और elective cesarean can be नुकसानदेह to the भ्रूण और neonate as खूब as नुकसानदेह or बगैर लाभ to the mother, and have established strict guidelines for non-medically indicated induced births and elective cesarean before 39 weeks.
Viva La Bam was an MTV & Viva show which followed Bam Margera और उसके क्रू as वे undertook चुनौतियां, performed स्टंट और traveled the संसार.
The show भागा लिये 5 सीज़न between 2003 and 2005.
Flushed Away is a 2006 british/american कंप्यूटर एनिमेटेड कार्रवाई / एडवेंचर कॉमेडी film directed by David Bowers and Sam Fell.
It was made in the partnership between Aardman Animations and ड्रीमवर्क्स एनिमेशन, और is aardman 's पहला completely computer-animated feature as opposed to the usual stop-motion.
The film stars the voice talents of Hugh जैकमैन, केट विंसलेट, एंडी serkis, विधेयक nighy, Ian McKellen, Shane Richie and Jean Reno.
The story was by Sam Fell, Peter Lord, Dick Clement, और इयान la frenais, और the पटकथा थी लिखा by लंड Clement, Ian La Frenais, Christopher Lloyd, Joe Keenan, and William Davies.
The film was released in US on 3 November 2006, और in uk on दिसम्बर 1 2006, और थी वितरित by सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें, मगर लिये स्विट्ज़रलैंड, स्पेन, and the Netherlands, which were handled by Universal Pictures.
The अटलांटा braves हैं a पेशेवर baseball team based in Atlanta.
The Braves are a member of the Eastern Division of Major League बेसबॉल 's नेशनल लीग.
The braves have निभाई in Turner Field since 1997.
The `` braves '' नाम, जिससे थी पहला प्रयुक्त in 1912, originates from a term for a Native American warrior.
They are nicknamed `` the Bravos '', and often referred to as `` America 's Team `` in सन्दर्भ to the टोली 's खेल होने ब्रॉडकास्ट on the nationally उपलब्धियाँ tbs इससे the 1970s जबतक 2007, gaining a wide fanbase.
From 1991 to 2005 the Braves were one of the most successful franchises in बेसबॉल, जीतना प्रभाग शीर्षक an unprecedented 14 लगातार टाइम्स in कि काल ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 season in which there were no official division champions ).
the braves जीती the nl वेस्ट 1991–93 और the nl ईस्ट 1995–2005, और लौटे to the playoffs as the National League Wild Card in 2010.
The Braves advanced to the संसार श्रेणी पाँच टाइम्स in the 1990s, जीतना the title in 1995.
Since their debut in the National League in 1876, the franchise has won 16 divisional titles, 17 नेशनल लीग pennants, as खूब as तीन संसार श्रेणी championships—in 1914 as the बोस्टन braves, in 1957 as the Milwaukee Braves, and in 1995 in Atlanta.
The Braves are the only एमएलबी मताधिकार to have जीती the संसार श्रेणी in three different home cities.
The club is one of the National League 's two remaining charter franchises ( the other होने the शिकागो शावक ) और थी संस्थापित in बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स, in 1871 as the बोस्टन रेड Stockings ( not to be confused with the American League 's Boston Red Sox ).
They are considered `` the oldest लगातार playing टोली in प्रमुख उत्तर अमरीकी खेल. ''
There is an argument as to who is actually older because although the Cubs are a full season `` older '' ( formed as the Chicago श्वेत stockings in 1870 ) शिकागो खोया दो सीज़न to the ग्रेट शिकागो आग, यूँ the braves have निभाई अधिक लगातार सीज़न.
After various name changes ( such as the Boston Beaneaters ), the team operated as the बोस्टन braves लिये सबसे of the पहला half of the 20th century.
In 1953, the team moved to Milwaukee, Wisconsin and became the मिल्वौकी braves, followed by the मूव to Atlanta in 1966.
The team 's tenure in Atlanta is famous for Hank Aaron breaking Babe Ruth 's career घर चलाएं रिकार्ड in 1974, हालांकि the बहुमत of आरोन 's घर runs were hit while the team was in Milwaukee.
उसके रिकार्ड stood जबतक 2007, जब San Francisco left fielder Barry Bonds broke the record.
The पत्ते of a beech पेड़
3D रेंडरिंग of a μct स्कैन of a पत्ता piece, resolution circa 40 μm/ voxel.
A leaf is an organ of a vascular संयंत्र, as पारिभाषित in वनस्पति terms, and in particular in plant morphology.
Foliage is a द्रव्यमान संज्ञा कि refers to पत्ते as a feature of plants.
Typically a leaf is a thin, flattened organ borne above ground and specialized for photosynthesis, but many types of leaves are adapted in ways almost unrecognisable in those terms : some are not flat ( for example many succulent leaves और conifers ), कुछ हैं नहीं ऊपर मैदान ( ऐसे as बल्ब तराजू ), और कुछ हैं बगैर प्रमुख photosynthetic function ( consider for example cataphylls, spines, and cotyledons ).
Conversely, many structures of non-vascular पौधे, or भी of कुछ lichens, जिससे हैं नहीं पौधे at सब ( in the sense of being members of the kingdom Plantae ), do look and function much like leaves.
Furthermore, several structures मिला in vascular पौधे dekh जैसे पत्ते लकिन हैं नहीं दरअसल पत्ते ; वे differ from leaves in their structures and origins.
Examples शामिल phyllodes, cladodes, और phylloclades.
Title card for the 1937 हमारी गिरोह कॉमेडी rushin ' Ballet.
Our Gang ( भी ज्ञात as the छोटी दुष्टों or एचएएल रोच 's दुष्टों ) हैं a श्रेणी of अमरीकी कॉमेडी छोटी films about a group of poor neighborhood children and their adventures.
Created by comedy producer Hal Roach, the series is noted for showing children behaving in a अपेक्षाकृत प्राकृतिक रास्ता, as रोच और असली निदेशक रॉबर्ट F. mcgowan worked to फिल्मी the unaffected, कच्चा nuances apparent in regular children rather than have them imitate adult acting styles.
In addition, Our Gang notably put boys, girls, whites and blacks together in a group as equals, something that `` broke नई मैदान, '' according to फिल्मी इतिहासकार Leonard Maltin.
Such a thing had never been done before in cinema but रै चूंकि महरूम दोहराया बाद the कामयाबी of हमारी गिरोह.
The first production at the Roach studio in 1922 थी a श्रेणी of मूक short subjects.
When Roach changed distributors from Pathé to metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ) in 1927, और परिवर्तित the श्रेणी to ध्वनि in 1929, the श्रेणी took off even further.
Production continued at the रोच स्टुडियो जबतक 1938, जब the श्रेणी थी बेची to mgm, जो then continued producing the comedies until 1944.
The Our Gang series includes a कुल of 220 शॉर्ट्स और एक विशेषता फिल्मी, सामान्य spanky, featuring over forty-one child actors.
As MGM retained the rights to the Our Gang ट्रेडमार्क following उनके खरीदें of the उत्पादन अधिकारों, the 80 roach-produced `` टॉकीज़ '' यहूद syndicated for television under the title The Little Rascals beginning in 1955.
Both Roach 's The Little Rascals package ( now owned by CBS Television Distribution ) and MGM 's Our Gang package ( now owned by Warner Bros. entertainment ) have चूंकि remained in अनुप्रयोग, साथ आवधिक नई प्रोडक्शन्स आधारित on the शॉर्ट्स surfacing over the सालो, सहित a 1994 Little Rascals feature film released by Universal Pictures.
Zacharias Janssen ( also zacharias जानसन or sacharias जानसन ) ( b.1580-88, d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) was a Dutch spectacle-maker from Middelburg associated with the invention of the first optical telescope.
Janssen is sometimes also credited for inventing the पहला truly यौगिक सूक्ष्मदर्शी.
However, the origin of the सूक्ष्मदर्शी, बस जैसे the उत्पत्ति of the telescope, is a matter of debate.
Lake tahoe ( ; washo : dáʔaw ) is a विशाल freshwater lake in the Sierra Nevada of the United States.
At a surface elevation of, it is located along the किनारा between कैलिफ़ोर्निया और नेवाडा, west of Carson City.
Lake Tahoe is the largest अल्पाइन झील in उत्तर अमेरिका.
Its depth is, making it the United राज्य 's second-deepest ( the deepest is crater झील in ऑरेगॉन, होने deeper, at ).
Additionally, झील tahoe is सूचीबद्ध as the 26th largest lake by volume in the world at.
The lake was formed परिचय 2 लाख सालो पहले और is a भाग of the झील tahoe जलाशय साथ the modern lake being shaped during the ice ages.
it is ज्ञात लिये the स्पष्टता of इसके जल और the परिदृश्य of surrounding mountains on all sides.
The area surrounding the lake is also referred to as झील tahoe, or बस tahoe.
Lake Tahoe is a प्रमुख पर्यटक आकर्षण in दोनो नेवाडा and California.
it is घर to a क्रमांक of स्की रिसॉर्ट, गर्मियाँ बाहरी recreation, and tourist attractions.
Snow and skiing are a significant part of the क्षेत्रफल 's अर्थव्यवस्था और प्रतिष्ठा.
Mountain and झील नजारा हैं आकर्षण throughout the year.
The नेवाडा पक्ष भी includes large casinos.
Highways provide year-round access from Reno, कार्सन नगर, और sacramento.
Page 1 of the Twenty-seventh Amendment 's प्रमाणन in the नेशनल Archives
पेज 2 of the amendment 's certification
Page 3 of the amendment 's प्रमाणन
The Twenty-seventh Amendment ( amendment xxvii ) prohibits कोई विधि कि increases or decreases the सैलरी of members of the Congress from taking effect until the start of the next set of terms of office for Representatives.
It is the सबसे हाल amendment to the United States Constitution.
It was सुपुर्द to the राज्य लिये अनुसमर्थन in 1789 and was adopted in 1992.
“First they came... ” is a famous statement and provocative poem attributed to पादरी मार्टिन niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) परिचय the सुस्ती of जर्मनी intellectuals following the nazis ' वृद्धि to power and the subsequent purging of their chosen targets, group after group.
वहीँ is कुछ असहमति over the सटीक wording of the quotation और जब it थी निर्मित ; the content of the quotation may have been presented differently by Niemöller on different occasions.
This list of islands by area includes all islands in the world greater than 2,500 km2 ( ) और अनेक अन्य आइलैंड्स over 500 km2 ( ), sorted in descending order by area.
For comparison, महाद्वीपों हैं भी shown.
चार तिहाई logo
The Four Thirds system is a standard created by Olympus and Kodak for डिजिटल single-lens reflex कैमरा ( dslr ) डिज़ाइन और development. < संदर्भ name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a standard that, with digital cameras and lenses उपलब्धियाँ इससे अनेक निर्माताओं, allows लिये the इंटरचेंज of lenses और लाशें इससे different manufacturers.
seems to कवर the मानक.
Proponents describe it as an खोलें मानक, लकिन कंपनियाँ may तभी उपयोग it अंतर्गत a non-disclosure agreement.
Unlike older slr प्रणालियों, चार तिहाई रै महरूम designed इससे the ground up to be entirely digital.
Many lenses are extensively computerized, to the पाइंट कि ओलम्पस offers firmware updates for many of them.
Lens design has been tailored to the आवश्यकताएँ of डिजिटल सेंसर, most notably through telecentric designs.
The size of the सेंसर is significantly छोटी than लिये सबसे dslrs और इस implies कि lenses, especially telephoto lenses, can be smaller.
For example, a Four Thirds lens with a 300 mm फोकल लंबाई होता कवर परिचय the वही कोण of दृश्य as a 600 mm फोकल लंबाई lens for the 35 mm film standard, and is correspondingly more compact.
Thus, the Four Thirds System रै क्रॉप फ़ैक्टर ( फोकल लंबाई गुणक ) of परिचय 2, और जबकि इस enables longer फोकल लंबाई for greater magnification, it does n't aid the manufacture of wide angle lenses.
The image sensor format, generally intermediate between those of larger SLRs and छोटी कॉम्पैक्ट कैमरे, generally देता स्तर of लागत, प्रदर्शन और convenience इंटरमीडिएट between those two classes.
HVAC systems use ventilation air ducts installed throughout a भवन to सप्लाई conditioned एयर to a रूम through आउटलेट vents, पुकारा diffusers ; and ducts to remove air through return-air grilles.
HVAC ( heating, वेंटिलेशन, और एयर कंडीशनिंग ) is the प्रौद्योगिकी of indoor and automotive environmental comfort.
HVAC system design is a subdiscipline of mechanical engineering, आधारित on the सिद्धान्त of ऊष्मागतिकी, द्रव यांत्रिकी, और ऊष्मा ट्रांसफ़र.
Refrigeration is sometimes added to the field 's abbreviation as HVAC & R or HVACR, or ventilating is dropped as in hacr ( ऐसे as the नामांकन of hacr-rated सर्किट ब्रेकर्स ).
HVAC is important in the design of medium to large industrial and office buildings such as skyscrapers and in marine environments ऐसे as एक्वैरियम, जहाँ सुरक्षित और स्वस्थ भवन शर्तें हैं regulated साथ आदर to तापमान और आर्द्रता, using fresh air from outdoors.
Ventilation on the downdraught system, by impulsion, or the 'plenum ' principle, applied to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
Heating, ventilating, and air कंडीशनिंग is आधारित on आविष्कारों और discoveries बना by निकोलय lvov, माइकल फैराडे, Willis Carrier, Reuben Trane, James Joule, William Rankine, Sadi Carnot, and many others.
The invention of the components of HVAC systems went hand-in-hand with the industrial revolution, and new methods of modernization, higher efficiency, and system कंट्रोल हैं constantly introduced by कंपनियाँ और आविष्कारक विश्वव्यापी.
The three central functions of heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning are interrelated, especially with the need to provide thermal सुकून और स्वीकार्य अंदर एयर विशेषता भीतर उचित संस्थापना, आपरेशन, और मेंटेनेंस लागत.
HVAC systems can provide ventilation, reduce air infiltration, and maintain दबाव संबंध between spaces.
The अर्थात् of एयर डिलीवरी और हटाना from spaces is known as room air distribution.
The starting point in carrying out an estimate both for cooling and हीटिंग depends on the exterior जलवायु और आंतरिक निर्दिष्ट conditions.
However पहले लेने up the ऊष्मा लोड गणना, it is जरुरी to ढूँढें भैस एयर requirements for each area in detail, as pressurization is an important consideration.
In modern buildings the design, installation, and control systems of these functions are एकीकृत into एक or अधिक hvac प्रणालियों.
For very small इमारतें, ठेकेदारों सामान्यतः क्षमता इंजीनियर और select HVAC systems and equipment.
For larger buildings, building services designers and इंजीनियर्स, ऐसे as mechanical, architectural, or भवन सेवाएं इंजीनियर्स analyze, डिज़ाइन, and specify the HVAC systems, and specialty mechanical contractors fabricate and commission them.
Building permits and code-compliance inspections of the संस्थापना are normally required for all sizes of buildings.
The HVAC industry is a worldwide एंटरप्राइज़, साथ भूमिकाएँ सहित आपरेशन और मेंटेनेंस, प्रणाली डिज़ाइन और निर्माण, equipment manufacturing and sales, and in education and research.
The HVAC industry was historically regulated by the manufacturers of HVAC equipment, but regulating and standards organizations ऐसे as hardi, ashrae, smacna, एसीसीए, वर्दी mechanical कोड, अंतरराष्ट्रीय mechanical कोड, और amca have been established to support the industry and encourage high standards and achievement.
Royal Navy Commander James Bond, CMG, rnvr, is a fictional अक्षर created by British journalist and novelist Ian Fleming in 1953.
He is the protagonist of the James Bond series of novels, films, कॉमिक्स और वीडियो खेल.
Fleming wrote twelve Bond novels and two छोटी स्टोरी संग्रहण पहले उसके मौत, हालांकि the पिछला दो books— the man with the Golden Gun and Octopussy and The Living Daylights —were published posthumously.
The Bond character is a Secret Service agent, code number 007, residing in लंदन लकिन क्रियाशील internationally.
Bond was a composite character who was based on a number of commandos whom फ्लेमिंग knew दौरान उसके सेवा in the नवल प्रज्ञा प्रभाग दौरान संसार युद्ध ii, to जिसको फ्लेमिंग added उसके अपना स्टाइल और a क्रमांक of उसके अपना tastes ; Bond 's name was appropriated from American ornithologist James Bond.
Bond has a number of character traits जिससे चलाएं throughout the किताबे, सहित an enjoyment of गाड़ियाँ, a प्रेम of food and drink, and an average intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day.
Since Fleming 's death in 1964, वहीँ have महरूम अन्य authorised लेखक of बंध सामग्री, सहित जॉन गार्डनर, जो लिखा चौदह novels और दो novelizations and Raymond Benson, who wrote six novels, three novelizations and three short stories.
There have भी महरूम तीन लेखक जो लिखा एक किताब प्रत्येक, Kingsley Amis ( writing as Robert Markham ), Sebastian Faulks and Jeffery Deaver.
Additionally a series of novels based on Bond 's youth— यंग बंध —was लिखा by चार्ली higson.
As spin-offs from the literary works, there was a television adaptation of the first novel, कसीनो royale, in जिससे बंध थी निभाई as an American agent.
A comic strip series also भागा in the रोज़ एक्स्प्रेस newspaper.
There have also been twenty-five Bond films ; सात अभिनेताओं have निभाई बंध in ये films.
`` Nature Boy '' is a सोंग by ईडन ahbez, published in 1947.
The song tells a fantasy of a `` strange enchanted boy... who wandered very far '' only to learn that `` the महानतम बात... थी बस to प्रेम and be loved in return ''.
Nat किंग कोल 's 1948 रिकॉर्डिंग of the सोंग थी a प्रमुख hit and `` Nature Boy '' has since become a pop and jazz standard, with dozens of major artists interpreting the song.
Louisiana ( or ;, ; Louisiana Creole : léta de la lwizyàn ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in the दक्षिणी प्रदेश of the United States of America.
Louisiana is the 31st most extensive and the 25th सबसे populous of the 50 संयुक्त States.
Its capital is Baton Rouge and largest नगर is New Orleans.
Louisiana is the only state in the u.S. साथ राजनैतिक subdivisions termed parishes, which are local government 's equivalent to counties.
The largest मोहल्ला by जनसांख्यिकी is ईस्ट baton रूज मोहल्ला, and the largest by land area is Cameron Parish.
Much of the state 's lands were formed from sediment washed down the Mississippi River, leaving विशाल deltas और विशाल क्षेत्रों of तटीय दलदल और मग्न.
These contain a समृद्ध दक्षिणी biota ; ठेठ उदाहरण शामिल birds such as ibis and egrets.
There are also many species of पेड़ मेंढक, और मछली ऐसे as sturgeon and paddlefish.
In more elevated areas, fire is a natural प्रक्रम in the लैंडस्केप, और रै उत्पादित extensive क्षेत्रों of longleaf pine forest and wet savannas.
These support an exceptional विशाल क्रमांक of संयंत्र प्रजाति, सहित many species of orchids and carnivorous plants.
Some Louisiana urban environments have a multicultural, multilingual विरासत, होने so strongly बहकावे by an जिसमें of 18th-century फ्रेंच, स्पेनी, Native American ( Indian ) and African cultures that they are considered to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S.
Before the American purchase of the territory, the वर्तमान louisiana राज्य था महरूम दोनो a Spanish and French colony.
In addition, the pattern of development included importing numerous अफ़्रीकी स्लेव in the 18th सदी, साथ अनेक इससे the वही प्रदेश of वेस्ट अफ़्रीकी, यूँ concentrating their culture.
In the post-Civil War environment, anglo-americans increased the दबाव लिये anglicization, और in 1915, English was made the only official language of the state.
Women 's rights are the अधिकारों और entitlements claimed लिये महिलाओं और girls of many societies worldwide.
In some places these rights are institutionalized or supported by law, local custom, और आचरण, whereas in अन्य वे may be उपेक्षित or suppressed.
They differ from broader notions of human अधिकारों through दावा of an अंतर्निहित ऐतिहासिक और परंपरागत पूर्वाग्रह विरूद्ध the कसरत of अधिकारों by women and girls in favour of men and boys.
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include, though are not limited to, the right : to bodily integrity and स्वायत्तता ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to मेला मजदूरी or बराबर अदा ; to अपना प्रॉपर्टी ; to शिक्षा ; to serve in the सैन्य or be conscripted ; to डालें into विधिक अनुबंध ; और to have वैवाहिक, parental और धार्मिक अधिकारों.
The laws of science or scientific laws are statements that describe, भविष्यवाणी, और शायद बताइये क्यों, a दायरा of phenomena व्यवहार as वे appear to in nature.
The term `` law '' has diverse usage in many cases : approximate, सटीक, व्यापक or सीमित theories, in सब प्राकृतिक वैज्ञानिक disciplines ( भौतिकी, रसायन, जीवविज्ञान, geology, astronomy etc. ).
An analogous पद लिये a वैज्ञानिक विधि is a principle.
वैज्ञानिक laws:
summarize a large collection of तथ्य संकल्पित by प्रयोग into a single statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as one or several statements or equation, or at तनिक stated in a सिंगल वाक्य, so कि it can be प्रयुक्त to भविष्यवाणी the निष्कर्ष of an प्रयोग, दिए the आरंभिक, boundary, और अन्य शारीरिक conditions of the processes which take place,
are strongly समर्थित by अनुभवजन्य प्रमाण - वे हैं वैज्ञानिक knowledge that experiments have repeatedly verified ( and never falsified ).
Their accuracy does not change when new theories हैं worked आउट, लकिन बल्कि the पैमाना of अनुप्रयोग, चूंकि the समीकरण ( if कोई ) representing the law does not change.
As with other scientific knowledge, they do not have absolute certainty जैसे गणितीय theorems or पहचान, और it is सदा संभावित लिये a विधि to be overturned by future observations.
are often quoted as a आधारभूत controlling influence बल्कि than a description of observed facts.
I.e. `` the laws of motion आवश्यकता कि ''
Laws differ इससे hypotheses और postulates, जिससे हैं प्रस्तावित दौरान the scientific process before and during validation by experiment and observation.
These are not laws since they have not been सत्यापित to the वही उपाधि और may नहीं be fear सामान्य, although they may lead to the formulation of laws.
A law is a more solidified and formal बयान, आसुत इससे दोहराया experiment.
Although the concepts of a law or principle in nature is borderline to philosophy, and presents the depth to which mathematics can describe nature, scientific कानून हैं माना इससे a वैज्ञानिक परिप्रेक्ष्य और follow the वैज्ञानिक विधि ; वे `` serve उनके purpose '' बल्कि than `` questioning reality '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ).
For example, whether a law `` refers to वास्तविकता '' is a philosophical समस्या, बल्कि than scientific.
Fundamentally, all वैज्ञानिक कानून follow इससे भौतिकी, कानून जिससे occur in अन्य sciences ultimately follow from physical laws.
Often, from mathematically fundamental viewpoints, सार्वभौमिक स्थिरांक emerge इससे वैज्ञानिक कानून.
The लॉन्च of the प्लेस्टेशन 3 into the जापानी मार्केट on 10 नवम्बर 2006 marked the second major seventh generation entertainment system to be released.
The system was released सात दिनों बाद on 17 नवम्बर in the United States.
Introduction into other world markets was delayed by a shortage of diodes for use in the Blu-ray disc player ; the यंत्र थी शुभारम्भ in यूरोपीय और अन्य संसार बाज़ार in the first half of 2007.
Lauren Fenmore Baldwin ( formerly Williams और grainger ) is a fictional अक्षर इससे the सीबीएस साबुन operas the Young and the Restless and The Bold and the Beautiful, portrayed by Tracey E. Bregman.
She made her debut during the episode airing on जनवरी 21, 1983.
In 1992, Bregman began बनाना विरल दिखावे on the बिंदास और the Beautiful, later resulting in the character migrating there fully in 1995.
Following a guest appearance in 2000, bregman लौटे to the यंग और the बेचैन on अगस्त 24, 2001, remaining on recurring status.
In 2013, it थी घोषित कि bregman had been placed on contract.
Much of Lauren 's history has revolved around her romances with पॉल विलियम्स, स्कॉट grainger, sr., और माइकल baldwin among अनेक अन्य causing a fierce फंसने साथ traci Abbott Connolly.
Lauren is also famous for her long, violent rivalry साथ शीला कार्टर.
The 2010 एनबीए फाइनल थी the नेशनल Basketball Association ( NBA ) championship series for the 2009–10 season.
The best-of-seven playoff was contested between the Los Angeles Lakers, champions of the पश्चिमी सम्मेलन और defending एनबीए champions, और the बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स, champions of the Eastern Conference.
The Lakers defeated the Celtics, four games to तीन, to जीत the मताधिकार 's 16th NBA championship.
The 64th edition of the championship series was played between जून 3 और जून 17, थी ब्रॉडकास्ट on एबीसी, और थी देखी by an average of 18.1 million people.
The सेल्टिक्स अर्जित उनके berth into the playoffs by winning the Atlantic Division.
The Lakers won the प्रशांत प्रभाग to earn उनके berth.
The सेल्टिक्स पहुँचे the एनबीए फाइनल by defeating the मियामी ऊष्मा in the best-of-seven पूर्वी सम्मेलन पहला गोलाकार, the Cleveland Cavaliers in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Semifinals, and defending Eastern conference champion Orlando Magic in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Finals.
The Lakers reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Oklahoma City Thunder in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी सम्मेलन पहला गोलाकार, the यूटा जैज़ in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी सम्मेलन semifinals, और the फीनिक्स सन्स in the best-of-seven Western Conference Finals.
The NBA Finals were scheduled in the Major League Baseball World Series 2–3–2 seven game format, with the Lakers possessing home-court advantage as a बदला लिये finishing साथ बेहतर नियमित ऋतु रिकार्ड than the सेल्टिक्स.
Repeated baskets from starters Kobe Bryant, Pau Gasol, and Ron Artest brought the लेकर्स बंद to विजय in Game 1.
A record breaking performance from Ray Allen 's आठ three-point baskets ensured the सेल्टिक्स a खेल 2 triumph.
Derek Fisher ’s 11 अंक in the चौथी क्वार्टर helped the लेकर्स win Game 3.
The Celtics won Game 4 ; it किया n't ठेस कि वे netted an बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन in baskets by the team’s reserves, जबकि पॉल पियर्स led the टोली to a Game 5 win with 27 points on 57 % shooting from the floor.
The Lakers avoided elimination by जीतना a निर्णायक खेल 6 साथ 24 points contributed by their bench.
Although they trailed the Celtics by 13 points early in the third quarter, the Lakers rallied and won उनके दूसरी लगातार चैंपियनशिप by लेने over an रोमांचक खेल 7 aided by लेट योगदान on offense by Pau Gasol and Artest and rebounding.
Bryant was named Most मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी of the फाइनल लिये his second consecutive trophy.
This was the first NBA Finals to go the full seven games since and only the fourth चूंकि the एनबीए फाइनल लौटे to a 2–3–2 स्वरूप in.
The Laker franchise has 16 एनबीए championships ( पाँच in मिनियापोलिस, 11 in लॉस एंजिल्स ) trailing the सेल्टिक्स ' seventeen championships.
The NBA Finals used the `` World Series '' Format in 1949 Minneapolis Lakers defeated the Washington Capitols 4 games to 2 ; in 1953 Minneapolis पराजित the नई यॉर्क knicks 4 खेल to 1 ; in 1954 मिनियापोलिस पराजित the syracuse नागरिकों 4 खेल to 3 ; और in 1955 syracuse नागरिकों पराजित the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3.
The एनबीए होता वापसी to the 2–2–1–1–1 National Hockey League seven game series format until 1985.
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering बेल in the परिवार piperaceae, cultivated लिये इसके फल, जिससे is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning.
The fruit, known as a peppercorn जब सूखी, is लगभग in व्यास, dark red when fully mature, and, like all drupes, contains a single seed.
Peppercorns, and the मैदान pepper निकला इससे उन्हें, may be वर्णित बस as pepper, or more precisely as black pepper ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ), green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ).
Black pepper is native to south India, and is extensively cultivated वहीँ और elsewhere in tropical regions.
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest निर्माता और निर्यातक of pepper, producing 34 % of the संसार 's पाइपर nigrum crop as of 2008.
Dried ground pepper has been used since antiquity लिये दोनो इसके फ्लेवर और as a आयुर्विज्ञान.
ब्लैक pepper is the संसार 's most traded spice.
It is one of the most common मसाले added to यूरोपीय भोजन और its descendants.
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the रासायनिक piperine, नहीं to be उलझन with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs.
It is in the आधुनिक संसार, प्रायः युग्म with salt.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the volumetric भिन्न of रक्त उत्तेजित आउट of the ventricle ( दिल ) साथ प्रत्येक दिल ताल or cardiac cycle.
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary वाल्व into the pulmonary परिसंचरण or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation.
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the आर्ट कि allows सार्थक गणितीय अभिव्यक्ति defining EF.
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a विश्वव्यापी यूटिलिटी enabling पढ़ाई of हृदय प्रदर्शन reproducibly and inexpensively.
Simplified, ejection भिन्न is a गणितीय उत्पाद allowed by cardiac imaging.
As a mathematical term, Ejection Fraction is an एक्सटेंशन of the कार्य of एडाल्फ फिक in हृदय आउटपुट.
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography, Computed Tomography, Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA scanning have definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक गणित regarding ischemia, जन्मजात दिल Disease and Heart Failure.
The prosecutor is the chief legal representative of the अभियोजन in देशों साथ either the आम law adversarial system, or the civil law inquisitorial system.
The prosecution is the legal पार्टी जिम्मेदार लिये पेश the मामला in a दण्ड विचारण विरूद्ध an individual accused of breaking the law.
Strawberry shortcake most commonly अर्थात् a मिठाई in the shortcake family of cakes.
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake may also refer to:
Strawberry Shortcake, a अक्षर और मताधिकार निर्मित by American Greetings
the shortened शीर्षक of स्ट्रॉबेरी on the Shortcake, a Japanese romance movie.
Abū al-Qāsim muḥammad इब्न ʿabd allāh इब्न ʿabd al-muṭṭalib इब्न hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 जून 632 ), भी transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ), was a religious, political, and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam.
He is believed by मुसलमान और bahá'ís to be a messenger and prophet of God.
मुहम्मद is लगभग universally माना by Muslims as the last prophet sent by God for mankind.
Non-Muslims regard मुहम्मद as the संस्थापक of islam.
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an अनछुए असली monotheistic आस्था of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and other prophets.
Born in about 570 CE in the arabian नगर of मक्का, he थी अनाथ at an early age and brought up under the care of his uncle Abu Talib.
He later worked mostly as a व्यापारी, as खूब as a गड़रिये, और थी पहला married by age 25.
होने in the आदत of periodically retreating to a गुफा in the surrounding kyu for several nights of seclusion and prayer, he later reported that it was there, at age 40, that he received his first revelation from God.
Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these revelations सरेआम, proclaiming कि `` परमेश्वर is एक ``, कि पूरा `` आत्मसमर्पण '' to उसे ( lit.
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God, and that he himself was a prophet and मेसेंजर of परमेश्वर, in the वही रग as अन्य इस्लामी नबियों.
Muhammad gained few followers early on, and was met with hostility from कुछ meccan जनजातियों ; he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता यहूद treated harshly.
To escape persecution, Muhammad sent some of his followers to अबीसीनिया पहले he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता in मक्का migrated to मदीना ( तब ज्ञात as yathrib ) in the साल 622.
This event, the हिज्र, marks the शुरूआत of the इस्लामी पंचांग, which is also known as the Hijri Calendar.
In Medina, Muhammad united the जनजातियों अंतर्गत the संविधान of Medina.
After eight years of fighting with the meccan जनजातियों, उसके अनुसरणकर्ता, जो by तब था grown to 10,000, took कंट्रोल of मक्का in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his followers out to destroy सब of the बाकी pagan मंदिरों in पूर्वी Arabia.
In 632, a few महीने बाद returning to मदीना इससे the Farewell Pilgrimage, Muhammad fell ill and died.
By the समय of उसके मौत, सबसे of the arabian प्रायद्वीप था परिवर्तित to Islam, and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity.
The revelations ( or ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until his death – form the आयतें of the कुरान, regarded by मुसलमान as the `` शब्द of परमेश्वर '' and around which the religion is based.
Besides the Quran, Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and परंपराओं ( सुन्नत ) हैं भी upheld by मुसलमान as the स्त्रोत of sharia law.
They discuss Muhammad and other prophets of Islam साथ reverence, adding the phrase सलाम be upon him whenever their names are mentioned.
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern टाइम्स यहूद largely ऋणात्मक, appraisals in modern history have been far less so.
The Great किताबे ( दूसरी edition )
Great Books of the Western World is a series of books originally प्रकाशित in the संयुक्त राज्य in 1952 by ब्रिटैनिका विश्वकोष inc. to उपस्थित the Great Books in a single package of 54 volumes.
The series is now in its second edition and contains 60 आयतन.
the असली सम्पादक of the श्रेणी chose तीन मापदण्ड for inclusion : a book must be relevant to contemporary issues, and not only important in its historical context ; it must reward rereading ; and it must be a part of `` the great conversation about the great ideas, '' relevant to at least 25 of the 102 great ideas identified by the editors.
Books were not चुनी on the आधार of जातीय or सांस्कृतिक inclusiveness, ऐतिहासिक influence, or the editors ' agreement with the views expressed.
`` Cocaine '' is a song written and recorded by JJ Cale in 1976, लकिन भी ज्ञात as a कवर संस्करण अंकित by eric Clapton.
Allmusic calls the latter `` among [ Clapton 's ] most enduringly लोकप्रिय हिट्स '' और टीप कि `` भी लिये an कलाकार जैसे क्लैप्टन साथ a विशाल देह of high-quality work, 'Cocaine ' ranks among his best. ''
Glyn Johns, who had previously worked with The Who, Led Zeppelin और the रोलिंग पत्थरों, उत्पादित the क्लैप्टन रिकॉर्डिंग, जिससे थी released on क्लैप्टन 's 1977 album Slowhand and as a single in 1980.
The live version of `` Cocaine '', from the Just One Night album अंकित in टोकियो, charted on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 as the b-side of `` तुलसा Time ``, which was a No. 30 hit in 1980. ``
Cocaine '' was one of several of cale 's गीतों अंकित by क्लैप्टन, सहित `` बाद मध्यरात्रि `` और `` Travelin ' Light ''.
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese Imperial General मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन z in नियोजन ) और the बैटल of पर्ल हार्बर ) थी a आश्चर्य सैन्य स्ट्राइक conducted by the इम्पीरियल जापानी नेवी against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the आक्रमण commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time.
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from दखल साथ सैन्य क्रियाएँ the साम्राज्य of जापानी थी नियोजन in southeast एशिया विरूद्ध विदेशी territories of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and the United States.
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese सेनानी, बमवर्षक और torpedo planes in दो लहरें, शुभारम्भ इससे छह वायुयान carriers.
सब आठ u.S. नेवी battleships यहूद damaged, with four being sunk.
Two of these were later raised, and with the बाकी चार repaired, छह battleships लौटे to service later in the war.
The जापानी भी sank or क्षतिग्रस्त तीन cruisers, three destroyers, an anti-aircraft training ship, and one minelayer.
188 U.S. वायुयान यहूद नष्ट ; 2,402 अमेरिकी were killed and 1,282 wounded.
Important base installations such as the power station, shipyard, maintenance, and fuel और torpedo भंडार सुविधाएं, as खूब as the पनडुब्बी पियर और मुख्यालय भवन ( भी घर of the प्रज्ञा section ) were not attacked.
Japanese losses were light : 29 aircraft and five midget submarines lost, and 65 servicemen मारे or wounded.
One Japanese नाविक थी captured.
The attack came as a profound शॉक to the अमरीकी लोगों और led सीधे to the अमरीकी entry into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters.
The following दिन ( दिसम्बर 8 ), the संयुक्त States declared war on Japan.
Domestic support for non-interventionism, जिससे था been strong, disappeared.
Clandestine support of ब्रिटेन ( लिये उदाहरण the Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by active alliance.
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted Germany and इटली to घोषित युद्ध on the u.S. on दिसम्बर 11, जिससे was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day.
There were numerous ऐतिहासिक precedents for unannounced military action by Japan.
However, the lack of any formal warning, particularly while negotiations were still जाहिर जारी, led अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट to proclaim दिसम्बर 7, 1941, `` a date which will live in infamy ``.
Project Runway Season 2 was the second season of ब्रावो 's कामयाब प्रोजेक्ट रनवे, a वास्तविकता प्रतियोगिता for fashion designers.
Season 2 began airing on December 7, 2005.
Following a देशभर ढूंढें पहले in the साल, सोलह designers were chosen as semi-finalists and brought to New York City in June, 2005.
After the पहला चुनौती, पुकारा `` सड़क to the Runway '', fourteen went on to compete as finalists.
The जीतना पंक्तियां, क्लो dao, प्राप्त $ 100,000 in बीज धन to सहायता लॉन्च उसके अपना लकीर, a 2007 शनि आसमान roadster, a स्प्रेड in ELLE magazine, and a mentorship with the Banana Republic Design Team.
जीतना alongside dao थी उसके मॉडल, अनुग्रह kelsey, who received the ELLE Magazine spread.
Michael Kors और नीना गार्सिया लौटे as न्यायाधीशों for the second season.
The fourth judging seat घुमाया प्रत्येक सप्ताह, आधारित on the challenge.
Tim Gunn, fashion chair at Parsons The New School लिये डिज़ाइन, लौटे as a mentor for the designers.
Kara Janx later appeared in प्रोजेक्ट रनवे : सब Stars in 2012, where she finished 7th out of 13.
Andrae Gonzalo, in the same year, competed in the दूसरी ऋतु of the सब सितारों edition placing 10th out of 13.
An example of a heraclius खच्चर
In numismatics, a खच्चर is a सिक्का or पदक minted साथ obverse and reverse designs not normally seen on the same piece.
These can be जानबूझकर or उत्पादित by error.
This प्रकार of गलती is अत्यधिक sought बाद, और उदाहरण can fetch steep prices from collectors.
The earliest mules हैं मिला among ancient Greek and Roman coins.
Opinion is divided between those who think that they are accidental, the result of an गलत संयोजन of a नई die साथ एक कि था officially महरूम withdrawn इससे उपयोग, or the कार्य of coiners working साथ मरता चुराया इससे an आधिकारिक मिंट, शायद at a समय जब एक of them should have been destroyed.
The name गर्भाशयी इससे the खच्चर, the संकर औलाद of a घोड़ा और a गधा, due to such a coin having two sides intended for different coins, much as a mule has parents of two different species.
This page documents the tornadoes और बवंडर outbreaks of 2010.
The बहुमत of tornadoes रूप in the u.S., लकिन वे can occur लगभग anywhere under the right conditions.
A lesser number occur बाहर the u.S., सबसे notably in भाग of neighboring दक्षिणी कनाडा during the Northern Hemisphere 's summer season, but are also known in South America, Europe, Asia, and Australia.
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the संयुक्त राज्य in 2010 ( of which at least 1,266 were confirmed ), with 45 confirmed fatalities.
Elsewhere in the संसार, 11 लोगों यहूद मारे in tornadoes, छह in अर्जेंटीना, तीन in the Bahamas, one in Bangladesh, and one in Germany.
The year was near average for tornadoes despite an extremely quiet early वसन्त काल, however ऐसे बदला बाद a विशाल upswing starting in लेट अप्रैल और a busy late spring and summer period.
The autumn महीने यहूद थोड़ा ऊपर average.
A lymphocyte is a type of श्वेत रक्त कोशिका in the vertebrate immune system.
Under the microscope, lymphocytes can be विभाजित into विशाल lymphocytes और छोटी lymphocytes.
Large granular lymphocytes शामिल प्राकृतिक killer cells ( NK cells ).
Small lymphocytes consist of t कोशिकाएं और b कोशिकाएं.
Windows PowerShell is Microsoft 's task automation framework, consisting of a command-line शेल और संबद्ध एनक्रिप्शन भाषा निर्मित on.neT फ्रेमवर्क.
PowerShell provides full access to com और wmi, enabling प्रशासकों to perform administrative tasks on both local and remote Windows systems.
In PowerShell, प्रशासनिक कार्य हैं generally performed by cmdlets ( सुनाया command-lets ), जिससे are specialized.NET classes implementing a particular operation.
Sets of cmdlets may be combined together in scripts, executables ( which are स्टैंडअलोन अनुप्रयोग ), or by instantiating नियमित.neT वर्ग ( or wmi/com वस्तुएँ ).
These work by accessing data in different data stores, like the filesystem or रजिस्ट्री, जिससे हैं बना उपलब्धियाँ to the powershell runtime via Windows PowerShell providers.
Windows PowerShell also provides a hosting API with which the खिड़कियाँ powershell runtime can be अंतःस्थापित अंदर other applications.
These applications can then use खिड़कियाँ powershell कार्यक्षमता to implement certain operations, including those exposed via the graphical interface.
This capability रै महरूम प्रयुक्त by microsoft एक्सचेंज सर्वर 2007 to expose इसके प्रबन्धन कार्यक्षमता as PowerShell cmdlets and providers and implement the graphical management tools as PowerShell hosts which invoke the necessary cmdlets.
Other Microsoft applications including microsoft एसक्यूएल सर्वर 2008 भी expose उनके प्रबन्धन interface via PowerShell cmdlets.
With PowerShell, graphical interface-based प्रबन्धन अनुप्रयोग on खिड़कियाँ हैं परतदार on शीर्ष of खिड़कियाँ powershell.
A PowerShell scripting इंटरफ़ेस लिये खिड़कियाँ उत्पाद is mandated by the Common Engineering Criteria.
Windows PowerShell शामिल इसके अपना extensive, console-based help, similar to man pages in Unix shells, via the Get-Help cmdlet.
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical फिल्मी अभिनीत जूली एंड्रयूज, लंड Van Dyke, David Tomlinson, and Glynis Johns, produced by Walt Disney, and based on the Mary Poppins books series by P. L. Travers.
The film was directed by Robert stevenson और लिखा by विधेयक वाल्श और डॉन dagradi, साथ गीतों by the शरमन भाइयो.
It was shot at Walt Disney studios in burbank, कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
Julie Andrews won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance as Mary poppins और the फिल्मी भी जीती ऑस्कर लिये बेहतरीन फिल्मी संपादन, असली म्यूज़िक स्कोर, बेहतरीन सोंग लिये `` chim chim Cher-ee '' and Best Visual Effects, and received a total of 13 nominations.
A story arc is an extended or continuing storyline in episodic storytelling मीडिया ऐसे as टेलीविज़न, कॉमिक किताबे, comic strips, boardgames, video games, and in some cases, films.
On a टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम, लिये उदाहरण, the story would unfold over many episodes.
In television, the use of the स्टोरी चाप is much अधिक आम in dramas than in comedies, especially in soap operas.
Webcomics are more likely to use story arcs than newspaper comics, as सबसे वेब कॉमिक्स have पठनीय अभिलेख ऑनलाइन कि a newcomer to the स्ट्रिप can पढ़ा in अनुक्रम to understand what is going on.
Although story arcs have existed for decades, the पद `` स्टोरी चाप '' थी coined in 1988 in संबंध to the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी wiseguy, और थी जल्दी adapted लिये अन्य उपयोग.
Many American comic book series are अभी लिखा in चार or six-issue arcs, भीतर a continuing series.
Short story arcs are easier to package as trade paperbacks लिये पुनर्विक्रय, और अधिक accessible to the कैज़ुअल रीडर than the never-ending निरंतरता that once characterised comics.
Black Friday is the day following थैंक्सगिविंग दिन in the संयुक्त राज्य, often regarded as the beginning of the Christmas shopping season.
In recent years, most major रिटेलर have खोली अत्यधिक जल्दी और offered promotional बिक्री to लात बंद the अवकाश shopping season, similar to Boxing Day sales in many Commonwealth Nations.
Black Friday is not an आधिकारिक पब्लिक अवकाश as ऐसे, लकिन अनेक non-retail कर्मचारी और स्कूलों have दोनो थैंक्सगिविंग और the day after off, followed by a weekend, thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers.
It has routinely been the busiest shopping day of the year since 2005, although news reports, which at कि समय यहूद inaccurate, have वर्णित it as the व्यस्ततम shopping day of the year for a much longer period of time.
The day 's name originated in Philadelphia, where it originally was used to describe the heavy and disruptive pedestrian और गाडी ट्रैफ़िक जिससे होता occur on the दिन बाद Thanksgiving.
Use of the पद प्रारंभ पहले 1961 और began to see broader use outside Philadelphia around 1975.
Later an वैकल्पिक स्पष्टीकरण began to be offered : कि `` ब्लैक शुक्रवार '' indicates the पाइंट at which retailers begin to turn a profit, or are `` ''.
For many years, it was common for retailers to खोलें at 6:00 a.m., लकिन in the लेट 2000s अनेक था crept to 5:00 or even 4:00.
This was taken to a new extreme in 2011, when several retailers ( सहित निशाना, kohl 's, macy 's, बेहतरीन ख़रीदे, और bealls ) opened at midnight for the first time.
In 2012, Walmart and several other retailers announced that they would open most of their stores at 8:00 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day ( except in states where खोलने on थैंक्सगिविंग is निषिद्ध due to ब्लू कानून, ऐसे as मैसाचुसेट्स जहाँ वे स्टिल खोली around मध्यरात्रि ), prompting काल्स लिये a walkout among some workers.
Black Friday shopping is known for attracting आक्रामक crowds, साथ सालाना रिपोर्ट्स of assaults, shootings, और throngs of लोगों trampling on other shoppers in an attempt to get the best deal on a product before supplies run out.
The परिवार कि preys is a 2008 अमरीकी फिल्म नाटक लिखा, produced, and directed by Tyler Perry.
The screenplay focuses on two families, one धनवान और the अन्य working क्लास, जिनकी जीवनदान हैं intertwined in दोनो प्रेम और business.
the फिल्म is the दूसरी of चार in जिससे पेरी 's signature character, Madea, does not make an appearance.
It is also the second perry-directed फिल्मी ( alongside पापा 's छोटी लड़कियों ) कि is नहीं आधारित on any of the filmmaker 's stage plays.
Net 10, Net 15, Net 30 and Net 60 ( also Net 10 days, et al ) are forms of trade credit which specify that the net amount ( the total outstanding on the invoice ) is expected to be सशुल्क in पूरा और प्राप्त by the विक्रेता भीतर 10, 15, 30 or 60 दिनों बाद the goods हैं dispatched or सेवा is समाप्त.
Net 30 or Net 60 शर्तें हैं प्रायः coupled साथ a क्रेडिट लिये early payment.
The word net in this भाव अर्थात् `` कुल बाद सब छूट. ''
It originally derives from the Latin nitere ( to shine ) and nitidus ( सुरुचिपूर्ण, trim ), और अधिक recently इससे the फ्रेंच जाल ( शार्प, neat, clean ).
roadtown, Tortola
The British West इंडीज यहूद the आइलैंड्स in और around the caribbean that were part of the British Empire.
In 1912, the British West Indies were divided into eight colonies : the बहामा, बारबाडोस, अंग्रेजों guiana, अंग्रेजों होंडुरास, जमैका ( साथ इसके dependencies the Turks and Caicos Islands and the Cayman Islands ), Trinidad and Tobago, the Windward Islands and the Leeward Islands.
Between 1958 and 1962, all of the island territories except the British Virgin Islands, the Bahamas, अंग्रेजों होंडुरास और अंग्रेजों guiana यहूद संगठित into the वेस्ट इंडीज संघ.
It was hoped that the Federation would become स्वतंत्र as a सिंगल स्वदेश, लकिन it था सीमित शक्तियां, अनेक व्यावहारिक problems, and a lack of popular support.
Consequently, the वेस्ट इंडीज संघ थी dissolved.
Most of the territories, including all the larger ones, are now independent as separate countries, with membership to many international forums such as the Organization of American States, the Association of Caribbean States, the संसार व्यापार संगठन, the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, the caribbean जातियाँ, the राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र और the caribbean विकास बैंको among others.
The शेष हैं अंग्रेजों विदेशी territories.
All the former nations of the British West Indies, except the Commonwealth of डोमिनिकन, गुयाना और त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो, हैं राष्ट्रमंडल Realms.
The term is still used for British Overseas territories in the caribbean, such as the Cayman Islands.
The बाकी British West Indies
`` What a Wonderful संसार '' is a सोंग लिखा by bob thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss.
It was first अंकित by लुई आर्मस्ट्रांग और released as a single in 1967.
Thiele and वेइस यहूद दोनो prominent in the म्यूज़िक संसार ( thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ).
आर्मस्ट्रांग 's रिकॉर्डिंग was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999.
The publishing for this सोंग is नियंत्रित by मेमोरी लेन म्यूज़िक समूह, कार्लिन म्यूज़िक corp., and Bug Music, Inc.
Inauguration Day 2009 on the वेस्ट कदम of the u.S. Capitol.
अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश और पहला महिला लौरा बुश lead the inaugural parade down Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House, 2005
The inauguration of the president of the United States is a ceremonial इवेंट अंकन the शुरुआत of a नई four-year पद of a president of the United States.
The day a अध्यक्षीय उद्घाटन occurs is ज्ञात as `` उद्घाटन दिन '' और occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ).
( Prior to the Twentieth amendment, the तिथि थी कूच 4, the दिन of the साल on जिससे the संविधान of the संयुक्त राज्य पहला took प्रभाव in 1789 ; the पिछला उद्घाटन to take place on the older date was Franklin D. Roosevelt 's first one on March 4, 1933. )
The most recent public अध्यक्षीय उद्घाटन रस्म, the swearing in of अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा to शुरू उसके दूसरी four-year term in office, took place on Monday, January 21, 2013.
The only inauguration element mandated by the United States Constitution is that the president make an oath or affirmation पहले कि व्यक्ति can `` डालें on the निष्पादन '' of the दफ्तर of the presidency.
However, over the years, various traditions have arisen that have विस्तारित the उद्घाटन इससे a सरल oath-taking रस्म to a day-long इवेंट, सहित parades, speeches, and balls.
From the presidency of Andrew Jackson through कि of jimmy कार्टर, the प्राथमिक उद्घाटन दिन रस्म took place on the Capitol 's East Portico.
Since the 1981 inauguration of Ronald reagan, the रस्म रै महरूम आयोजित at the कैपिटल 's West Front.
The inaugurations of William Howard Taft in 1909 और reagan in 1985 यहूद स्थानांतरित indoors at the कैपिटल due to ठंडा weather.
The War of 1812 and World War II caused two inaugurations to be आयोजित at अन्य स्थितियाँ in Washington, D.C.
When George Washington was inaugurated, the oath was administered by रॉबर्ट livingston, चांसलर of नई यॉर्क राज्य, in 1789, और by विलियम Cushing, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, in 1793.
Since Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth swore in President John Adams, no chief justice has missed an उद्घाटन दिन.
When Inauguration Day has fallen on a संडे, the मुख्य इंसाफ रै administered the शपथ to the अध्यक्ष on the Sunday privately and then again the next day publicly.
When a new अध्यक्ष takes over mid-term due to the मौत or इस्तीफा of a अध्यक्ष, the शपथ of दफ्तर is administered लकिन औपचारिक, public inauguration events have not been held.
Stefani Joanne एंजेलीना germanotta ( ; born कूच 28, 1986 ), ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम महिला गागा, is an अमरीकी singer, songwriter, record producer, dancer, activist, businesswoman, fashion designer, actress and philanthropist.
Born and raised in New York City, she primarily studied at the कान्वेंट of the पवित्र दिल और briefly attended नई यॉर्क विश्वविद्यालयों 's tisch स्कूल of the Arts before withdrawing to focus on her musical career.
She soon began performing in the चट्टान म्यूज़िक scene of Manhattan 's Lower East Side.
By the end of 2007, record executive and producer Vincent Herbert signed her to उसके लेबल streamline रिकॉर्ड, an imprint of Interscope Records.
Initially working as a songwriter at Interscope Records, her vocal abilities captured the ध्यान of रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार एकॉन, जो भी हस्ताक्षरित उसके to Kon Live Distribution, his own label under Interscope.
Lady Gaga came to prominence as a रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार following the रिलीज of उसके डेब्यू एल्बम, the कीर्ति ( 2008 ), जिससे थी a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी कि अव्वल चार्ट around the world and included the international number-one singles `` Just Dance `` and `` Poker Face ``.
After embarking on the The Fame Ball Tour, she followed the album with The Fame दानव ( 2009 ), जिससे शाखित the विश्वव्यापी hit singles `` ख़राब रोमांस ``, `` Telephone ``, and `` Alejandro ``.
The Fame Monsters success allowed her to embark on the eighteen-month long Monster Ball Tour, which later became एक of the highest-grossing कॉन्सर्ट टुर of all time.
Her most recent album, Born This Way ( 2011 ), topped the charts of most major markets and generated more अंतरराष्ट्रीय chart-topping singles, सहित `` born इस रास्ता ``, `` यहूदा ``, और `` the किनारे of महिमा ``.
Influenced by Britney Spears, David Bowie, Michael जैक्सन, मैडोना, और महारानी, महिला गागा is पहचाना लिये उसके flamboyant, विविध और outré योगदान to the music industry through her fashion, performances and music videos.
as of अक्तूबर 2011, वो रै बेची an अनुमानित 23 लाख एल्बम और 64 लाख singles worldwide and her singles are some of the best-selling worldwide.
Her achievements include five Grammy Awards and 13 एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार.
Lady Gaga has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's Artists of the Year ( scoring the definitive title in 2010 ), ranked fourth in VH1 's list of 100 महानतम महिलाओं in म्यूज़िक, is the छठे बेहतरीन selling डिजिटल singles कलाकार in us according to riaa, is regularly लगाई on सूचियाँ रचित by Forbes magazine and was named one of the most influential people in the world by Time magazine.
Besides her musical career, वो involves herself साथ humanitarian कल्याणकारी and LGBT activism.
mckethan स्टेडियम घर of Gator baseball
A चित्र of the 1924 Baseball team
The Florida Gators बेसबॉल टोली represents the विश्वविद्यालयों of फ्लोरिडा in the sport of baseball.
The Florida gators compete in प्रभाग i of the नेशनल कॉलेजिएट एथलेटिक्स Association ( NCAA ), and the Eastern Division of the Southeastern Conference ( SEC ).
They play their home games in Alfred A. McKethan Stadium on the university 's gainesville, फ्लोरिडा कैम्पस, और हैं फिलहाल led by सिर कोच केविन O'Sullivan.
In the ninety-eight season history of the Gators baseball कार्यक्रम, the टोली रै जीती बारह सेक championships और रै appeared in आठ कॉलेज संसार श्रेणी tournaments.
`` electioneering '' redirects here.
For the radiohead सोंग, see OK Computer.
Presidential campaign button for अब्राहम lincoln, 1860.
The reverse side of the बटन shows a पोर्ट्रेट of his running mate Hannibal Hamlin.
A political campaign is an organized effort which seeks to influence the निर्णय बनाना प्रक्रम भीतर a विशिष्ट समूह.
In democracies, political अभियान प्रायः refer to चुनावी अभियान, wherein representatives are chosen or referendums are decided.
In modern politics, the most high profile political campaigns are focused on candidates for सिर of राज्य or सिर of सरकारी, प्रायः a अध्यक्ष or Prime Minister.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton और उसके बेटी, harriot
Elizabeth Cady Stanton ( November 12, 1815 – October 26, 1902 ) थी an अमरीकी सोशल activist, abolitionist, और अग्रणी फिगर of the जल्दी महिलाओं 's rights movement.
Her Declaration of Sentiments, presented at the first women 's rights convention held in 1848 in Seneca Falls, New York, is often credited with initiating the पहला व्यवस्थित महिलाओं 's अधिकारों और महिलाओं 's suffrage आंदोलनों in the संयुक्त States.
Before Stanton narrowed her राजनैतिक फ़ोकस लगभग exclusively to महिलाओं 's अधिकारों, वो थी an क्रियाशील abolitionist together with her husband, Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin, Gerrit Smith.
Unlike many of those involved in the women 's अधिकारों गति, stanton addressed विभिन्न मुद्दे pertaining to महिलाओं परे मतदान rights.
Her concerns included women 's parental and custody rights, प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों, नियुक्ति और आय अधिकारों, तलाक, the economic health of the family, and birth control.
She was also an outspoken supporter of the 19th-century temperance movement.
After the American Civil War, Stanton 's commitment to female suffrage caused a schism in the women 's अधिकारों गति जब वो, साथ साथ सुसान B. एंथोनी, अस्वीकृत to support ड्योढ़ी of the fourteenth और पंद्रहवीं amendments to the संयुक्त States Constitution.
She opposed giving added विधिक सुरक्षा और मतदान अधिकारों to African American men while women, black and white, were denied those same rights.
Her position on this issue, together with उसके विचार on व्यवस्थित christianity और महिलाओं 's मुद्दे परे मतदान अधिकारों, led to the गठन of दो पृथक महिलाओं 's अधिकारों संगठन कि यहूद आखिरकार rejoined, with Stanton as president of the joint organization, approximately twenty years after her break from the original women 's suffrage movement.
Stanton died in 1902 having authored both The स्त्री 's बाइबल और उसके आत्मकथा, साथ साथ अनेक आलेख और pamphlets concerning female suffrage and women 's rights.
my मेला महिला is a musical आधारित upon जार्ज बर्नार्ड Shaw 's Pygmalion and with book and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe.
the स्टोरी चिंताएं eliza doolittle, a काकनी पुष्प लड़की जो takes speech lessons from professor Henry Higgins, a phoneticist, so that she may pass as a well-born lady.
The musical 's 1956 Broadway production was a hit, setting what थी तब the रिकार्ड लिये the longest चलाएं of कोई प्रमुख musical थिएटर production in history.
It was followed by a hit लंदन उत्पादन, a popular film version, and numerous revivals.
It has महरूम पुकारा `` the perfect musical ''.
Deregulation is the अधिनियम or प्रक्रम of निकालना or reducing state regulations.
It is therefore opposite of regulation, which refers to the process of the सरकारी regulating निश्चित क्रियाएँ.
The Boston Bruins Radio Network is a 25-station ( 17 A.M., 8 F.M. plus 2 F.M. अनुवादक ) सीबीएस रेडियो संजाल जिससे carries सजीव खेल प्रसारण of the बोस्टन bruins.
The network 's flagship स्टेशन is wbz-fm /98.5- बोस्टन, Massachusetts.
Dave Goucher announces play-by-play.
Bob beers provides रंग commentary.
This article is परिचय the short story.
For the कविता by सारा teasdale, see There Will Come Soft Rains.
`` There Will Come Soft Rains '' is a short story by विज्ञान fiction लेखक रे bradbury जिससे थी पहला प्रकाशित in the may 6, 1950 issue of Collier 's.
Later that वही साल the स्टोरी थी शामिल in bradbury 's The Martian Chronicles ( 1950 ).
With over 1.2 अरब लोगों, हान चाइनीज is the largest ethnic group in the world.
Pashtun people of the Pashtunistan region, which sits in an area between दक्षिण of the हिन्दू कुश in अफगानिस्तान और the सिंधु River in Pakistan.
They क्रमांक around 50 million.
The Korowai people of Papua गिने बस around 3,000 लोगों, और यहूद uncontacted until the 1970s.
Ethnicity or ethnic group is a socially defined category आधारित on आम संस्कृति or राष्ट्रीयता.
Ethnicity can, but does not have to, शामिल आम ancestry, रूप, भोजन, ड्रेसिंग स्टाइल, heritage, history, language or dialect, religion, symbols, traditions, or other cultural factor.
Ethnic identity is constantly reinforced through आम विशेषताएँ जिससे नियत the समूह apart from other groups.
The 19.9 MW gemasolar सौर संयंत्र in स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 hours of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day.
Solar energy, radiant light and heat from the सूर्य, रै महरूम harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि प्राचीन times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar heating, solar photovoltaics, सौर थर्मल विद्युत, सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis, जिससे can मेक considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive सौर or क्रियाशील सौर depending on the way they capture, convert and distribute solar energy.
क्रियाशील सौर तकनीकों शामिल the उपयोग of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy.
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the सूर्य, selecting सामग्री साथ अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing गुण, और डिजाइनिंग spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the विकास of सस्ती, inexhaustible और साफ सौर उर्जा technologies होगा have विशाल longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन, बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता, reduce प्रदूषण, निम्नतर the लागत of mitigating जलवायु बदलें, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
These लाभ हैं वैश्विक.
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना निवेश ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared ''.
The classical Latin alphabet or Roman alphabet evolved इससे a पश्चिमी किस्में of the यूनानी वर्णमाला पुकारा the cumaean वर्णमाला, जिससे थी adopted and modified by the Etruscans who ruled early Rome.
The etruscan वर्णमाला थी in फेरे अपनाया और further परिवर्धित by the ancient Romans to write the Latin language.
During the Middle आयु, the लैटिन वर्णमाला थी adapted to रोमांस भाषाएं, direct descendants of Latin, as well as to Celtic, Germanic, Baltic, and some Slavic languages.
With the age of colonialism and ईसाई इंजीलवाद, the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट थी स्प्रेड विदेशी, और लागू to स्वदेशी American, Australian, Austronesian, Austroasiatic, and African languages.
More recently, linguists have also tended to prefer the Latin script or the International Phonetic Alphabet ( itself largely आधारित on लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट ) जब transcribing or बनाना लिखा मानकों लिये non-european भाषाएं, such as the African reference alphabet.
The term Latin alphabet may refer to either the alphabet used to write Latin ( as described in this आलेख ), or अन्य alphabets आधारित on the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट, जिससे is the मौलिक नियत of अक्षर आम to the various alphabets descended from the classical Latin one, such as the English alphabet.
These latin-derived alphabets may छोड़ें अक्षर, जैसे the rotokas वर्णमाला, or add new letters, like the Danish and Norwegian alphabet.
Letter आकार have बदला over the centuries, including the creation for Medieval Latin of lower case forms which did not exist in the Classical period.
The assassination of संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln took place on Good Friday, April 14, 1865, as the American Civil War was drawing to a close.
The assassination occurred पाँच दिनों बाद the कमांडर of the confederate फौज of उत्तरी वर्जिनिया, सामान्य रॉबर्ट E. Lee, surrendered to Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant and the Union Army of the Potomac.
Lincoln was the पहला अमरीकी अध्यक्ष to be assassinated, हालांकि an unsuccessful attempt था महरूम made on Andrew Jackson 30 years before in 1835.
The हत्या थी नियोजित और carried आउट by the well-known स्टेज कर्ता जॉन wilkes बूथ, as भाग of a larger conspiracy in a bid to revive the Confederate cause.
Booth 's co-conspirators were लुईस पावेल और दाउद herold, जो यहूद आबंटित to मार सचिव of राज्य विलियम H. Seward, and George Atzerodt who was to kill Vice President Andrew Johnson.
By simultaneously eliminating the top three people in the प्रशासन, बूथ और उसके co-conspirators hoped to sever the continuity of the United States government.
Lincoln was shot while watching the खेल हमारी अमरीकी cousin साथ उसके बीवी मरियम टॉड lincoln at घाट 's थिएटर in वॉशिंगटन, D.C. on the night of April 14, 1865.
He died जल्दी the अगला morning.
The rest of the conspirators ' plot failed ; Powell only प्रबंधित to घाव seward, जबकि atzerodt, जॉनसन 's would-be हत्यारे, lost his nerve and fled Washington.
Add-on might mean:
Plug-in ( computing ), a piece of software which enhances another software अनुप्रयोग और प्रायः can नहीं be चलाएं independently
ब्राउजर एक्सटेंशन, जिससे modifies the इंटरफ़ेस and/or behavior of web browsers
add-on ( मोज़िला ), a टुकड़ा of तन्त्र कि enhances and customizes Mozilla-based applications
Add-ons for फायरफॉक्स ( addons.mozilla.org ), the आधिकारिक मोज़िला न्यास वेब साईट जिससे serves as a repository of add-ons for Mozilla-based applications
Peripheral, an वैकल्पिक कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर घटक कि significantly पूरक or enhances the functionality of the original unit
Video game accessory, a piece of hardware used in संयोजन साथ a वीडियो game console for playing video games
क्लबों स्तर seating is a खास खण्ड of seating in modern sports stadiums.
The Club स्तर is प्रायः स्तिथ towards the मध्य of the stage of seating sections, above the lower deck but below the upper deck.
They are usually right next to the Luxury Boxes, either right above, सही नीचे, or sandwiched between दो स्तर of लक्ज़री बाक्स.
Club Level seating is माना as उच्चतर क्लास than बैठे anywhere else in the arena, but lower class compared to the Luxury Boxes.
Unlike the Luxury Boxes, most club levels do not रैप entirely around the एरिना.
Some club levels stop at a certain point, giving way to an विस्तार of the मेज़ानाइन, जबकि अन्य दे रास्ता to lower class Luxury Boxes ( such as `` Party Suites '' ).
A notable एक्सेप्शन to इस is अमीरात स्टेडियम in London, which has a complete tier of club seating.
Club Levels allow fans अनेक स्तर of entertainment.
Club Level seating is open to the elements, as opposed to the entirely enclosed luxury boxes, जिससे देता अधिक of an बाहरी छाप at roofless और open-roof स्टेडियम and arenas.
Club Level seating is normally bought on a अनुबंध आधार to allow लिये अधिकतम लाभ on the part of the stadium.
The Club स्तर provides प्रशंसक साथ खास अभिगम to an अंदर part of the arena exclusive to fans with special tickets.
ये क्षेत्रों हैं एयर conditioned और allow access to special restaurants, merchandise stands, and lounge areas of the stadium that are not otherwise available.
Concession stands and vendors on the Club Level also often offer different menus than in other stands to दे अधिक of a खास महसूस to the क्लबों.
These areas हैं बंद बंद to the बाकी of the स्टेडियम, और वे usually can only be accessed through the exclusive, private club entrances.
Sophia Loren ( ; born Sofia Villani scicolone ; 20 सितंबर 1934 ) is an इतालवी actress.
Loren is widely पहचाना as इटली 's सबसे प्रसिद्ध and honored actress.
She was the first actress of the talkie era to जीत an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये a non-english-speaking प्रदर्शन, लिये उसके portrayal of cesira in Vittorio De Sica 's Two Women.
Her other awards include a Grammy पुरस्कार, पाँच खास सुनहरी ग्लोब्स, a bafta पुरस्कार and a Laurel Award.
In 1995 she received the सेसिल B. demille पुरस्कार लिये आजीवन उपलब्धियाँ, एक of many such awards.
Her films include : Houseboat ( 1958 ), El Cid ( 1961 ), Yesterday, आज और कल ( 1963 ), विवाह italian-style ( 1964 ), और a खास Day ( 1977 ).
In बाद सालो वो रै appeared in अमरीकी blockbusters ऐसे as Grumpier Old Men ( 1995 ), and Nine ( 2009 ).
In 1994 she starred in Robert Altman 's Prêt-à-Porter, which earned her a सुनहरी ग्लोब नामांकन the वही साल.
She has also achieved critical and वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी in tv फिल्मों ऐसे as Courage ( 1986 ).
मौतों लिये self-inflicted injuries per 100,000 inhabitants in 2004.
Incidence of suicide is underreported due to दोनो धार्मिक और सोशल pressures, और संभवतः completely unreported in some areas.
Nevertheless, from reported मामले, निश्चित रुझान are apparent.
Since the data is skewed, comparing आत्महत्या दरों between राष्ट्र is statistically unsound.
The trends themselves हैं नहीं the cause, but may be indicative of a root cause.
The Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for लड़कियों - दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी is a मादा बोर्डिंग स्कूल संस्थापित in जनवरी 2007 और स्तिथ in Henley on Klip near Meyerton, south of Johannesburg, South Africa.
The academy was संस्थापित by ओपरा विनफ्रे साथ the लक्ष्य of providing शैक्षणिक और leadership opportunities for academically gifted girls from impoverished backgrounds.
Oprah Winfrey नेतृत्व अकादमी लिये लड़कियों
Digicel is a mobile phone network provider operating in 31 बाज़ार आरपार the caribbean, सेंट्रल अमेरिका, और महासागरीय regions.
The company is owned by Irishman Denis o'brien, is incorporated in बरमूडा, and based in Jamaica.
It has about 13 लाख बेतार users.
As of 2012, Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla, अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा, अरूबा, बारबाडोस, बरमूडा, bonaire, the अंग्रेजों वर्जिन आइलैंड्स, the केमन आइलैंड्स, कुराकाओ, डोमिनिकन, el साल्वाडोर, फिजी, फ्रेंच guiana, हरा, guadeloupe, गुयाना, Haiti, Jamaica, Martinique, Nauru, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Tonga, Trinidad & Tobago, Turks and Caicos, and Vanuatu.
This is a सूची of रिकॉर्ड of the फीफा संसार कप and its qualification matches.
हॉस्पिटल आपात कोड हैं प्रयुक्त in अस्पताल विश्वव्यापी to alert staff to various emergencies.
The use of codes is intended to convey essential information जल्दी और साथ minimal गलतफहमी to स्टाफ, जबकि preventing तनाव और panic among visitors to the hospital.
These codes may be posted on placards throughout the hospital, or मुद्रित on कर्मचारी पहचान बैज लिये तैयार सन्दर्भ.
Back of a hospital ID बैज प्रर्दशित विपत्ति codes.
Hospital emergency codes may denote अलग कार्यक्रम at अलग अस्पताल, सहित nearby ones.
Because many physicians work at अधिक than एक सुविधा, इस may सीसे to भ्रम in emergencies, so uniform systems have been proposed.
The route of the eifel जलसेतु, साथ इसके औसत slope.
The Eifel Aqueduct थी एक of the longest aqueducts of the रोमन साम्राज्य.
The aqueduct, constructed in ad 80, carried जल कुछ इससे the hilly eifel प्रदेश of what is now Germany to the ancient city of Colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium ( present-day Cologne ).
If the auxiliary spurs to अतिरिक्त स्रोतों हैं शामिल, the length was.
The construction थी लगभग entirely नीचे मैदान, और the प्रवाह of the जल was produced entirely by gravity.
A few bridges, including one up to in लंबाई, यहूद needed to pass over घाटियों.
Unlike some of the other famous Roman aqueducts, the eifel जलसेतु थी specifically designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it from damage and freezing.
In chemistry, a disulfide bond ( Br.E. disulphide बंध ) is a covalent बंध, प्रायः निकला by the coupling of two thiol groups.
The linkage is भी पुकारा an SS-bond or disulfide bridge.
The overall कनेक्टिविटी is इसलिए R-S-S-R.
The शब्दावली is widely प्रयुक्त in biochemistry.
In formal terms, the कनेक्शन is a persulfide, in सादृश्य to इसके congener, परऑक्साइड ( r-o-o-r ), लकिन इस शब्दावली is अस्पष्ट and is no longer used ( except in reference to R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H compounds ).
Formal depiction of disulfide बंध गठन as an ऑक्सीकरण.
Westminster Abbey is used लिये the राजतिलक of अंग्रेजों monarchs
Religion in the United किंगडम और in the देशों कि preceded it, रै महरूम वर्चस्व, for over 1,400 years, by various forms of Christianity.
According to some surveys, a majority of citizens still identify साथ christianity, हालांकि नियमित गिरिजाघर उपस्थिति रै गिरे dramatically चूंकि the मध्य of the 20th सदी, और आव्रजन और जनसांख्यिकी बदलें have contributed to the growth of other faiths.
Religious affiliations of UK citizens हैं अंकित by नियमित सर्वेक्षण, the चार प्रमुख ones होने the uk जनसांख्यिकी, the Labour Force Survey, the British Social Attitudes survey and the European Social Survey.
According to the 2001 UK census, christianity is the प्रमुख धर्म, followed by islam, हिंदुत्व, sikhism, Judaism and Buddhism in terms of number of adherents.
This, and the relatively large number of individuals with nominal or no religious संबद्धों रै led टीकाकारों to variously describe the संयुक्त किंगडम as a multi-faith, secularised, or post-Christian society.
The United Kingdom was formed by the union of previously independent देशों इससे 1707, और नतीजतन सबसे of the largest religious groups do not have UK-wide organisational structures.
While some groups have separate structures for the individual countries of the संयुक्त किंगडम, अन्य may have a सिंगल ढांचा covering England and Wales or Great Britain.
Similarly, due to the relatively recent creation of Northern Ireland in 1921, सबसे प्रमुख धार्मिक समूह in उत्तरी आयरलैंड are organised on an all-Ireland basis.
The 1967 Newark riots were a major civil disturbance that occurred in the नगर of न्यूर्क, नई जर्सी between July 12 and July 17, 1967.
The six days of rioting, लूटने, और विनाश बाएँ 26 dead and hundreds injured.
In संयुक्त राज्य कॉलेज एथलेटिक्स, redshirt is a विलंब or बर्खास्तगी of an खिलाड़ी 's participation in order to lengthen his or her period of eligibility.
Typically, a student 's athletic eligibility in a given sport is four seasons, a number derived from the four years of academic classes that are सामान्यतः जरूरी to obtain a स्नातक 's उपाधि at an अमरीकी कॉलेज or university.
however, a छात्र खिलाड़ी may be offered the अवसर to redshirt लिये up to दो सालो, जिससे allows the athlete to spread those four years of eligibility over five, or sometimes six years.
In a redshirt year, a student athlete may attend classes at the college or university, अभ्यास साथ an एथलेटिक टोली, और पोशाक लिये खेल लकिन he or वो may नहीं compete दौरान the game.
Using this mechanism, a student athlete has up to पाँच अकादमिक सालो to उपयोग the चार सालो of पात्रता, यूँ बनने a fifth-year वरिष्ठ.
The term is प्रयुक्त as a क्रिया, संज्ञा, and adjective.
For example, a कोच may चुनें to redshirt a खिलाड़ी जो is तब referred to as a redshirt freshman or simply a redshirt.
the विपरीत of इस is a `` true freshman. ''
World War I ( WWI ) was a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939, और the पहला World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great powers, which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम, फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी, austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन, as austria–hungary था लिया the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United राज्य joined the allies, और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और बुल्गारिया the सेंट्रल शक्तियां.
Ultimately, more than 70 million military कर्मियों, सहित 60 लाख europeans, यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in सुरक्षा or mobility.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन, ऐसे as revolutions in अनेक of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the war was the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of austria-hungary, on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked.
Within weeks, the major powers were at war and, via their colonies, the conflict जल्द स्प्रेड around the संसार.
On 28 July, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण with a trench line that changed little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the Russian army was successful against the austro-hungarians, लकिन थी रोका in इसके आक्रमण of ईस्ट prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस, मेसोपोटामिया and the Sinai.
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 और रोमानिया in 1916.
in रूस, the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 जर्मनी अप्रिय साथ the पश्चिमी सामने, the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its अपना ट्रबल साथ क्रांतिकारियों, सहमत to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in विजय लिये the Allies.
Events on the home fronts were as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts, as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी, रूसी, austro-hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor राज्य of the पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The मैप of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into several smaller states.
The League of Nations थी formed in the आशा of preventing another such conflict.
The European nationalism spawned by the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
Map of countries that घोषित themselves to be समाजवादी राज्य अंतर्गत the marxist–leninist or माओवादी परिभाषा - कि is to say, `` Communist states '' - between 1979 and 1983.
This period चिह्नित the महानतम territorial extent of Communist states.
A communist राज्य is a राज्य जहाँ the अर्थात् of उत्पादन are collectively owned by the society.
It has a form of government characterized by single-party rule or dominant-party rule of a communist party ( referred as तानाशाही of the proletariat by इसके proponents ) और a professed allegiance to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the state.
Technically, `` communist state '' is a contradictio in terminis as a कम्युनिस्ट समाज as पारिभाषित by दोनो माक्र्सवादी और anarcho-communists is in principle stateless.
From this perspective, the term Marxist-Leninist राज्य is अधिक उचित.
Historically, a `` communist state '' referred to a system where public ownership of all or most means of production by the Communist party -run state is deemed necessary to further the interests of the working class ; today, a कम्युनिस्ट राज्य can भी, लिये उदाहरण, refer to समकालीन चीन और वियतनाम, जहाँ a कम्युनिस्ट party-run राज्य exists alongside a मिश्रित economy.
according to marxist–leninists, the राज्य is a औजार in the हैंड्स of the ruling class, which in a socialist society is the working class, so a socialist state is, according to Leninists, a state of the working class.
In practice, communist states do नहीं दरअसल refer to themselves as ऐसे.
They do this not to disguise the fact that the सत्ताधारी पार्टी is कम्युनिस्ट, लकिन बल्कि क्युकी वे do नहीं consider themselves to be a communist society at present.
Instead, they constitutionally identify themselves as समाजवादी राज्य or मजदूर ' states.
The primary goal of these states, which also explains उनके आधिकारिक नाम, is to मार्गदर्शिका उनके संबंधित देशों in the प्रक्रम of भवन समाजवादी, ultimately leading to communism.
Communist states may have several legal political parties, but the communist party is usually granted a special or dominant role in government, प्रायः by statute or अंतर्गत the संविधान.
Consequently, the institutions of the state and of the communist party become intimately entwined, ऐसे as in the विकास of parallel institutions.
In the 20th century, most कम्युनिस्ट राज्य अपनाया नियोजित economies.
However, there were exceptions : The Soviet Union during the 1920s and late 1980s and यूगोस्लाविया बाद संसार युद्ध ii अनुमत सीमित बाज़ार और a उपाधि of कार्यकर्ता self-management, जबकि चीन, वियतनाम और लाओस introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s.
In the 21st century, China and वियतनाम have अनुमत a मिश्रित अर्थव्यवस्था to develop.
The fundamental अवधारणाओं of कम्युनिस्ट राज्य प्रायः diverge इससे the असली socio-economic ideologies from which they develop.
As a result, many adherents of ये विचारधाराओं प्रायः oppose the राजनैतिक systems commonly associated with these states.
For example, dissenting communists such as Trotskyists were often opposed to the communist राज्य of the 20th सदी, claiming either कि वे था nothing to do साथ `` रियल '' साम्यवादी or कि the विचारधारा of ऐसे राज्य था पहुँचे a पाइंट of अटल भ्रष्टाचार.
Michael Fred Phelps II ( born June 30, 1985 ) is a retired American तैराक और the सबसे सजा ओलंपियन of सब समय, साथ a total of 22 medals.
Phelps भी holds the all-time रिकॉर्ड लिये ओलम्पिक सुनहरा medals ( 18, दोगुना the दूसरी उच्चतम record holders ), Olympic gold medals in individual events ( 11 ), and Olympic medals in individual events for a male ( 13 ).
In winning eight gold medals at the 2008 Beijing Games, Phelps took the record for the सबसे first-place finishes at कोई सिंगल ओलम्पिक Games.
Five of those victories यहूद in व्यक्तिगत कार्यक्रम, tying the single Games record.
In the 2012 Summer Olympics in लंदन, फेल्प्स जीती चार golds और दो चांदी medals, बनाना उसे the सबसे कामयाब खिलाड़ी of the Games for the third Olympics in a row.
Phelps is the long course world recordholder in the 100-meter butterfly, 200-meter तितली और 400-meter व्यक्तिगत medley as खूब as the पूर्व long कोर्स संसार recordholder in the 200-meter freestyle and 200-meter individual medley.
He has won a कुल of 71 medals in प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय long-course प्रतियोगिता, 57 सुनहरा, 11 silver, and three bronze spanning the Olympics, the World, and the Pan Pacific Championships.
Phelps 's international titles and record-breaking प्रदर्शन have अर्जित उसे the संसार तैराक of the साल पुरस्कार सात टाइम्स और American Swimmer of the Year Award nine times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in 2012.
His unprecedented Olympic कामयाबी in 2008 अर्जित फेल्प्स खेल illustrated magazine 's Sportsman of the Year award.
After the 2008 Summer Olympics, Phelps प्रारंभ the माइकल फेल्प्स न्यास, जिससे focuses on growing the खेल of swimming and promoting healthier lifestyles.
He expects to do further work with उसके न्यास बाद the 2012 ओलंपिक, जिससे he has said will be his last.
Lenovo Group Limited ( ) is a चाइनीज बहुराष्ट्रीय कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर और इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स कम्पनी साथ इसके मुख्यालय in बीजिंग, चीन and Morrisville, North Carolina and its registered office in Hong Kong, China.
Its products शामिल निजी कंप्यूटर, टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर, मोबाईल फोन, workstations, सर्वर, इलेक्ट्रॉनिक storage devices, IT management software and smart televisions.
Lenovo is the संसार 's second-largest pc विक्रेता by 2012 unit sales.
It markets the थिंकपैड लकीर of कोपी कंप्यूटर and the ThinkCentre line of desktops.
Lenovo रै परिचालन in अधिक than 60 देशों and sells its products in around 160 countries.
Lenovo was founded in Beijing in 1984 and incorporated in हांग काँग in 1988 अंतर्गत इसके पिछला नाम, लेजेंड.
Lenovo is listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the हैंग सेंग china-affiliated Corporations Index.
Slug is a आम नाम लिये an जाहिर shell-less terrestrial gastropod mollusk.
The word `` slug '' is also often used as part of the आम नाम of कोई gastropod mollusc कि रै no शेल, रै a बहुत घटाया शेल, or has only a small internal shell.
( This is in contrast to the common name `` snail ``, which is applied to gastropods that have a नतीजे शेल कि is विशाल पर्याप्त कि the नरम भाग of the animal can retract fully into it. )
Slugs exist on land and in the sea, and there is भी एक genus of freshwater slugs, acochlidium.
The unadorned word `` slug '' is however applied primarily to land slugs, whereas slugs इससे the समुद्र or इससे freshwater हैं प्रायः referred to as `` समुद्र slugs `` और `` freshwater slugs ''.
Land gastropods with a shell that is नहीं काफी vestigial, लकिन is too छोटी to retract into ( like many in the family Urocyclidae ), are known as semislugs.
The various taxonomic families of slugs form part of अनेक काफी अलग विकासवादी lineages जिससे also include snails.
Thus, for example, the various परिवारों of जमीन slugs हैं नहीं बहुत closely सम्बन्धित to एक another, despite a superficial similarity in the overall body form.
The shell-less condition has arisen अनेक टाइम्स independently दौरान the विकासवादी पास्ट, और यूँ the श्रेणी `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one.
Slugs, जैसे सब अन्य gastropods, undergo torsion ( a 180° twisting of the internal organs ) during development.
Internally, slug anatomy clearly shows the effects of this rotation, but externally the लाशें of जमीन slugs appear to be अधिक or कम सममित, मगर लिये the positioning of the pneumostome, which is on one side of the animal, normally the right hand side.
The soft, slimy bodies of slugs are prone to desiccation, so land-living slugs are confined to नम environments और जरूर रिट्रीट to नम छुपाना स्थान जब the मौसम is dry.
The subsequent सूचना in इस आलेख applies to land slugs.
is a Latin word that means `` यूँ '' or, in लिखने, `` it was thus in the source material ''.
sic may भी refer to:
sic, cluj, a कम्यून in Romania
SIC, the क्षेत्रीय code for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ), styled as [ sic ], स्टेज नाम of Jennifer Morris, a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a आधुनिक hardcore/thrash मेटल बैंड इससे torshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '', a song by अमरीकी बैंड slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC, the आरंभिक of मार्को Simoncelli.
SIC as an एक्रोनिम may स्टैंड for:
SiC, Silicon carbide, a semiconducting सामग्री, भी प्रयुक्त to मेक धातुकर्म tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( società इटालियाना cyclecars )
मानक औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण, a 20th-century U.S. system for classifying industries
International Standard Industrial वर्गीकरण a un प्रणाली लिये आर्थिक activities
Shetland आइलैंड्स परिषद
the स्विस interbank Clearing system
San Isidro Club, an अर्जेंटाइन रग्बी union club
Standing निर्वचन कमेटी, a कमेटी समर्पित to the interpretation of international accounting standards IFRS
schwarz सूचना मानदंड in the field of statistics
second-in-command in the field of aviation
sistema interconectado सेंट्रल power grid in Chile
Sociedade Independente de comunicação ( sic ), a टेलीविज़न चैनल in पुर्तगाल
Sea Isle नगर, नई जर्सी, a coastal town in the United States
Segmented Integer काउंटर विधि, a विधि of आपरेशन in cryptography
Sepang International Circuit, a high-end racetrack कि होस्ट the मलेशियाई round of Formula 1
शंघाई अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट, a मोटर racing venue in Shanghai, China
Simplified instructional computer, a hypothetical कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त in प्रणालियों प्रोग्रामिंग
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ), an जल्दी twentieth-century आर्ट पत्रिका उत्पादित by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College, a दो साल जूनियर कॉलेज in harrisburg, इलिनोइस, United States
Specific inductive capacity, abbreviated to sic, जिससे is अधिक commonly ज्ञात as the सापेक्ष विद्युतशीलता or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' कॉलेज, riverview, a जेसुइट स्कूल in Sydney, Australia
Imperial मानक of नेपोलियन I
नेपोलियन बोनापार्ट (, ; 15 अगस्त 1769 – 5 may 1821 ) थी a फ्रेंच सैन्य और राजनैतिक नेता जो रोज़ to prominence during the latter stages of the French Revolution and its associated wars in Europe.
As नेपोलियन i, he थी सम्राट of the French from 1804 to 1815.
His legal reform, the Napoleonic Code, has been a major influence on many civil विधि jurisdictions विश्वव्यापी, लकिन he is बेहतरीन remembered लिये उसके भूमिका in the युद्धों led विरूद्ध फ़्रांस by a श्रेणी of coalitions, the so-called Napoleonic Wars.
He established आधिपत्य over सबसे of महाद्वीपीय यूरोपीय और sought to स्प्रेड the आदर्शों of the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति, जबकि consolidating an इम्पीरियल monarchy which restored aspects of the deposed Ancien Régime.
Due to his success in these wars, often against numerically superior enemies, he is generally regarded as एक of the महानतम सैन्य कमांडरों of सब समय, और उसके अभियान हैं पढ़ाई at सैन्य academies worldwide.
Napoleon थी born at ajaccio in corsica in a परिवार of प्रतिष्ठित इतालवी ancestry which had settled Corsica in the 16th century.
he प्रशिक्षित as an तोपखाने officer in mainland France.
he रोज़ to prominence अंतर्गत the फ्रेंच पहला गणतंत्र और led कामयाब अभियान विरूद्ध the पहला and Second Coalitions arrayed against France.
He led a successful आक्रमण of the इतालवी प्रायद्वीप.
In 1799, he मंचन a तख्तापलट d'état और संस्थापित खुद as पहला कौंसुल ; पाँच सालो later the French Senate proclaimed him emperor, following a plebiscite in his favour.
In the first decade of the 19th century, the फ्रेंच साम्राज्य अंतर्गत नेपोलियन सगाई in a श्रेणी of conflicts—the napoleonic युद्धों —that शामिल प्रत्येक major European power.
After a streak of victories, France secured a dominant स्थिति in महाद्वीपीय यूरोपीय, और नेपोलियन कायम the फ्रेंच गोला of influence through the formation of extensive alliances and the appointment of friends and family members to rule other European countries as French client states.
The प्रायद्वीपीय युद्ध और 1812 फ्रेंच आक्रमण of रूस marked turning points in Napoleon 's fortunes.
His Grande Armée was badly damaged in the campaign और never fully बरामद.
In 1813, the Sixth Coalition defeated his शक्तियां at लिपजिग ; the following साल the गठबन्धन invaded फ़्रांस, मजबूर नेपोलियन to abdicate and exiled him to the island of Elba.
Less than a साल बाद, he फरार एल्बा और लौटे to power, but was defeated at the Battle of Waterloo in June 1815.
Napoleon spent the पिछला छह सालो of उसके जीवन in confinement by the British on the island of Saint Helena.
An autopsy concluded he died of पेट कर्कट, लकिन वहीँ रै महरूम कुछ बहस about the cause of his death, as some scholars have speculated that he was a victim of arsenic poisoning.
This is a कालानुक्रमिक लिस्टिंग of the संयुक्त States Senators from Pennsylvania.
United राज्य सीनेटरों हैं popularly निर्वाचित, for a six-year term, beginning January 3.
Elections are आयोजित the पहला मंगलवार बाद November 1.
Before 1914, they were chosen by the Pennsylvania General सभा, और पहले 1935, उनके शर्तें began March 4.
The South Africa national rugby संघ टोली ( ज्ञात as the springboks ) represents दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी in rugby union.
They compete in the सालाना रग्बी चैंपियनशिप, साथ साथ southern-hemisphere counterparts Argentina, Australia and New Zealand.
They have जीती इस चैंपियनशिप on three occasions in sixteen years.
They are currently ranked second in the संसार by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय रग्बी फलक, और यहूद नामित 2008 संसार टोली of the साल at the Laureus World Sports Awards.
Although South Africa was instrumental in the creation of the Rugby World Cup प्रतियोगिता, the springboks किया नहीं compete in the पहला दो संसार cups in 1987 और 1991 क्युकी of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South Africa.
The team made its World Cup debut in 1995, when the newly लोकतांत्रिक दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी hosted the टूर्नामेंट.
The Springboks then defeated the सब अश्वेतों 15–12 in the फाइनल, जिससे is अभी remembered as one of the greatest moments in South Africa 's sporting history, and a watershed moment in the post-Apartheid nation-building process.
South Africa regained their title as champions 12 सालो बाद, जब वे पराजित इंग्लैण्ड 15–6 in the 2007 फाइनल.
As a result of the 2007 World कप टूर्नामेंट the springboks यहूद प्रचारित to पहला प्लेस in the आईआरबी संसार rankings, a स्थिति they held until July the following year when New Zealand regained the top spot.
The Springboks play in ग्रीन और सुनहरा jerseys, और उनके प्रतीक हैं the Springbok and the Protea.
The side has been playing अंतरराष्ट्रीय रग्बी चूंकि 1891, जब a अंग्रेजों isles पक्ष toured the स्वदेश, playing South Africa in their first Test on 30 July.
South Africa was coached by Jake White, who led the Boks to the 2007 World Cup title, announcing उसके इस्तीफा effectively इससे the end of 2007.
His replacement 's ( Peter de Villiers ) अनुबंध समाप्त in 2011, following a 11–9 शिकस्त to ऑस्ट्रेलिया in the रग्बी संसार Cup quarter-final, who then stated he would not be signing a new deal.
the पिछला कप्तान थी जॉन smit, जो पहले he रिटायर्ड in 2011 निभाई hooker for most of his career, although he has also been a prop, mainly in 2008 and 2009.
Due to Smit being unavailable for the November 2010 Tests after surgery, lock विक्टर matfield took smit 's प्लेस as कप्तान लिये कि दौरे.
The वर्तमान कप्तान is जां de Villiers.
The Battle of Gettysburg (, with an sound ), was लड़ा जुलाई 1–3, 1863, in और around the कस्बा of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.
It was the battle साथ the largest क्रमांक of हताहत in the अमरीकी Civil War and is often described as the war 's turning point.
Union Maj. Gen. जार्ज गॉर्डन meade 's फौज of the potomac पराजित हमले by confederate gen. रॉबर्ट E. Lee 's Army of Northern Virginia, ending Lee 's invasion of the North.
After his success at Chancellorsville in Virginia in may 1863, ली led उसके फौज through the shenandoah घाटी to शुरू उसके दूसरी आक्रमण of the north—the gettysburg Campaign.
With his army in high spirits, Lee intended to शिफ़्ट the फ़ोकस of the गर्मियाँ अभियान इससे war-ravaged उत्तरी वर्जिनिया और hoped to influence उत्तरी राजनेता to दे up उनके अभियोजन of the war by penetrating as far as Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, or even Philadelphia.
Prodded by President Abraham Lincoln, maj. gen. जोसेफ वेश्या स्थानांतरित उसके फौज in pursuit, लकिन थी सुकून बस तीन days before the battle and replaced by Meade.
Elements of the two armies initially collided at Gettysburg on July 1, 1863, as Lee तत्काल concentrated उसके शक्तियां वहीँ, उसके उद्देश्य होने to engage the संघ फौज और destroy it.
Low ridges to the northwest of town यहूद defended initially by a संघ प्यादे प्रभाग अंतर्गत ब्रिगेडियर. gen. जॉन buford, and soon reinforced with two corps of Union infantry.
However, दो विशाल confederate corps फहरा उन्हें इससे the उत्तरपश्चिम और उत्तर, collapsing the hastily विकसित संघ लाइनों, sending the defenders retreating through the streets of town to the hills just to the south.
On the second day of बैटल, सबसे of both armies had assembled.
The Union line was laid out in a रक्षात्मक गठन resembling a fishhook.
In the late afternoon of जुलाई 2, ली शुभारम्भ a भारी उत्पीड़न on the संघ left flank, and fierce fighting raged at Little Round Top, the Wheatfield, Devil 's Den, and the Peach Orchard.
On the Union right, demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults on culp 's Hill and Cemetery Hill.
All across the battlefield, despite significant नुकसान, the संघ defenders आयोजित उनके lines.
On the third day of battle, July 3, fighting resumed on Culp 's Hill, and cavalry battles raged to the east and south, but the main event was a dramatic infantry उत्पीड़न by 12,500 confederates विरूद्ध the बीच of the संघ लकीर on कब्रिस्तान लकीरें, ज्ञात as पिकेट 's Charge.
The charge थी repulsed by संघ राइफल और artillery fire, at great losses to the Confederate army.
Lee led his army on a torturous रिट्रीट वापस to वर्जिनिया.
Between 46,000 और 51,000 सैनिको इससे दोनो सेना were casualties in the three-day battle.
That November, अध्यक्ष lincoln प्रयुक्त the समर्पण रस्म लिये the gettysburg नेशनल Cemetery to honor the fallen Union soldiers and redefine the purpose of the war in his historic Gettysburg Address.
An academic discipline, or field of study, is a branch of ज्ञान कि is सिखाया और शोधकार्य at the कॉलेज or university level.
Disciplines are defined ( in part ), and recognized by the academic journals in which research is प्रकाशित, और the सीखे समाजों और अकादमिक विभाग or faculties to जिससे उनके practitioners belong.
However, वहीँ exists no औपचारिक मापदण्ड लिये जब शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम and scholarly journals form an academic discipline.
A huge difference exists between, on the one hand, well established disciplines that exist in almost all universities all over the संसार, have a long इतिहास, और have a खूब स्थापित नियत of जर्नल्स और सम्मेलनों, और, on the अन्य हाथ, सुझाव for new fields supported only by few universities and publications.
Fields of study usually have several sub-disciplines or branches, और the distinguishing लाइनों between ये are often both arbitrary and ambiguous.
PHP is a server-side एनक्रिप्शन भाषा designed लिये वेब विकास but also used as a general-purpose programming language.
PHP is now installed on more than 244 लाख वेबसाइटों और 2.1 लाख वेब सर्वर.
Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995, the reference implementation of पीएचपी is अभी उत्पादित by the पीएचपी Group.
While PHP originally stood for Personal Home Page, it अभी स्टैंड लिये पीएचपी : हाइपरटेक्स्ट preprocessor, a recursive एक्रोनिम.
पीएचपी कोड is interpreted by a वेब सर्वर साथ a पीएचपी प्रोसेसर मोड्यूल जिससे generates the resulting वेब पेज : पीएचपी कमांड can be embedded directly into an HTML source document rather than calling an external file to process data.
It has also evolved to include a command-line interface capability और can be प्रयुक्त in स्टैंडअलोन आलेखीय applications.
PHP is free तन्त्र released अंतर्गत the पीएचपी अनुज्ञा, जिससे is असंगत साथ the ग्नू सामान्य पब्लिक अनुज्ञा ( जीपीएल ) due to restrictions on the usage of the term PHP.
PHP can be तैनात on सबसे वेब सर्वर और भी as a स्टैंडअलोन शेल on लगभग every operating system and platform, free of charge.
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), often referred to by his initials JFK, was the 35th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, सेवारत इससे 1961 until his death in 1963.
After military सेवा as कमांडर of the मोटर torpedo नौकाएँ pt-109 और pt-59 दौरान संसार युद्ध ii in the South Pacific, Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
Thereafter, he served in the u.S. सीनेट इससे 1953 जबतक 1960.
कैनेडी पराजित वाइस अध्यक्ष और रिपब्लिकन प्रत्याशी Richard Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election.
At 43 years of age, he is the youngest to have been elected to the office, the second-youngest President ( after Theodore Roosevelt ), and the पहला व्यक्ति born in the 20th सदी to serve as president.
A Catholic, Kennedy is the तभी non- प्रोटोस्टेंट अध्यक्ष, और is the तभी president to have won a Pulitzer Prize.
Events दौरान उसके प्रेसिडेंसी शामिल the खाड़ी of सूअर आक्रमण, the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट, the भवन of the Berlin Wall, the Space Race, the African-American Civil Rights Movement, and early stages of the Vietnam War.
Therein, Kennedy increased the number of सैन्य advisers, खास आपरेशन शक्तियां, and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia.
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the रणनीतिक हैमलेट कार्यक्रम जिससे थी implemented by the South Vietnamese government.
It involved certain forced relocation, गाँव internment, और पृथक्करण of ग्रामीण दक्षिण वियतनामी from the northern and southern communist insurgents.
Kennedy was assassinated on नवम्बर 22, 1963 in डलास, टेक्सास.
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with the crime, but he was shot and killed by Jack माणिक्य दो दिनों बाद, पहले a विचारण could take place.
The FBI and the Warren आयोग officially concluded कि ओसवाल्ड थी the लोन assassin.
however, the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस चुनें कमेटी on assassinations ( hsca ) concluded कि those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
However, ABC News in their छानबीन, the कैनेडी हत्या : परे षड्यंत्र, confirmed the findings of the Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter bomber कार्यक्रम led to a congressional investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970.
चूंकि the 1960s सूचना concerning कैनेडी 's private life has come to light.
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which he struggled have become बेहतर ज्ञात, विशेषकर चूंकि the 1990s.
Although initially kept secret from the general पब्लिक, रिपोर्ट्स of कैनेडी 's philandering have garnered much press.
Kennedy ranks highly in पब्लिक राय दरजा of u.S. presidents.
`` Stand by me '' is a सोंग originally performed by बेन E. किंग और लिखा by किंग, जेरी leiber, और माइक stoller, inspired by the spiritual `` Lord Stand by Me, '' plus two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3.
There have महरूम over 400 अंकित versions of the song.
A political cartoon इससे an 1894 पक पत्रिका by इलस्ट्रेटर S.D. Ehrhart, shows a farm woman labeled `` Democratic Party '' sheltering from a tornado of political change.
A रूपक is a फिगर of वाक कि describes a विषय by asserting that it is, on some point of comparison, the same as another otherwise unrelated object.
Metaphor is a type of analogy and is closely related to other rhetorical figures of वाक कि achieve उनके प्रभाव via संघ, comparison or resemblance including allegory, hyperbole, and simile.
In simpler terms, a metaphor compares दो वस्तुएँ or बाते बगैर using the शब्द `` like '' or `` as ''.
One of the most prominent उदाहरण of a रूपक in अंग्रेज़ी साहित्य is the All the world 's a stage monologue from As You Like It :
सब the संसार 's a stage,
And all the men and women merely खिलाड़ी ;
They have उनके exits और उनके entrances ; — William Shakespeare, As You Like It, 2/7
This उद्धरण is a रूपक क्युकी the world is not literally a stage.
By figuratively asserting कि the संसार is a स्टेज, शेक्सपियर उपयोग the अंक of तुलना between the संसार और a स्टेज to convey an समझना about the mechanics of the world and the lives of the people within it.
Mount Fuji, from the thirty-six दृश्य of माउंट फुजी, रंग woodcut by Katsushika Hokusai
rembrandt वैन rijn, self-portrait, etching, c.1630
Francisco Goya, वहीँ is no एक to सहायता उन्हें, Disasters of War series, aquatint c.1810
Felix Vallotton, la raison probante ( the cogent कारण ), woodcut from the series Intimités, 1898
printmaking is the प्रक्रम of बनाना artworks by printing, normally on paper.
Printmaking normally covers only the process of बनाना prints साथ an तत्व of मौलिकता, बल्कि than बस होने a फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक reproduction of a painting.
Except in the case of monotyping, the process is सक्षम of producing multiples of the वही टुकड़ा, which is called a print.
Each print produced is not माना a `` नक़ल '' लकिन बल्कि is माना an `` original ''.
This is because typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking process, and also because the imagery of a print is typically नहीं बस a जनन of another कार्य लकिन बल्कि is प्रायः a अद्वितीय चित्र designed इससे the start to be expressed in a particular printmaking technique.
a छपाई may be ज्ञात as an impression.
Printmaking ( other than monotyping ) is नहीं चुनी तभी लिये इसके क्षमता to उपज अनेक impressions, लकिन बल्कि लिये the अद्वितीय qualities that each of the printmaking processes lends itself to.
prints हैं निर्मित by transferring स्याही इससे a मेट्रिक्स or through a prepared screen to a sheet of paper or other material.
Common types of matrices शामिल : मेटल प्लेटों, प्रायः तांबे or जस्ता, or पॉलिमर प्लेटों लिये नक्काशी or etching ; स्टोन, एल्यूमिनियम, or polymer for lithography ; blocks of wood for woodcuts and wood engravings ; and linoleum for linocuts.
Screens made of silk or synthetic fabrics हैं प्रयुक्त लिये the screenprinting प्रक्रम.
Other types of मेट्रिक्स substrates और सम्बन्धित processes are discussed below.
Multiple impressions मुद्रित इससे the वही matrix form an edition.
Since the late 19th century, artists have generally हस्ताक्षरित व्यक्तिगत impressions इससे an संस्करण और प्रायः number the impressions to form a limited edition.
Prints may also be printed in book form, such as illustrated किताबे or कलाकार 's किताबे.
Il Divo is an English multinational operatic pop vocal समूह निर्मित by म्यूज़िक मैनेजर, कार्यपालिका, और वास्तविकता tv स्टार साइमन Cowell.
Formed in the संयुक्त किंगडम, वे हैं भी हस्ताक्षरित to cowell 's record label, Syco Music.
Il Divo is a group of four male singers : French pop singer Sébastien Izambard, Spanish baritone Carlos Marín, अमरीकी टेनर दाउद मिलर, और स्विस tenor Urs Bühler.
To date, they have बेची अधिक than 26 लाख albums worldwide.
Su-15, one of the प्रिंसिपल सोवियत एयर रक्षा interceptors in the 1970s and 1980s
An interceptor aircraft ( or simply interceptor ) is a type of fighter aircraft designed specifically to prevent मिशन of दुश्मन वायुयान, विशेषकर बमवर्षक और reconnaissance वायुयान, और नष्ट उन्हें, relying usually on great speed and powerful armament.
Being used since the First World War, after the late 1960s, interceptors became less important due to shifting इससे बमवर्षक to इंटरकांटिनेंटल बैलिस्टिक मिसाइलें ( icbms ) लिये नाभिकीय warfare.
A Vietnamese American ( ) is an अमरीकी of वियतनामी descent.
They make up about half of all overseas Vietnamese ( Người việt hải ngoại ) और हैं the fourth-largest एशियाई American group.
Mass Vietnamese immigration to the United States started after 1975, after the समाप्त of the वियतनाम युद्ध.
Early immigrants were refugee boat लोगों fleeing persecution or poverty.
Forced to flee from their homeland and प्रायः thrust into ग़रीब शहरी पड़ोस, ये newcomers have nevertheless managed to establish strong communities in a short amount of time.
More than sixty प्रतिशत of वियतनामी अमेरिकी reside in the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, Texas, Washington, Florida, and Virginia.
Front page of the u.S. हथियारबंद शक्तियां समाचारपत्र, सितारों and Stripes, 2 May 1945
Adolf Hitler वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या by gunshot on 30 अप्रैल 1945 in his Führerbunker in Berlin.
His wife Eva ( née Braun ) वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या साथ उसे by ingesting cyanide.
That afternoon, in accordance with Hitler 's prior instructions, उनके remains यहूद carried up the सीढ़ियाँ through the बंकर 's आपात निकास, doused in पेट्रोल और नियत alight in the Reich Chancellery garden outside the bunker.
the सोवियत अभिलेख रिकार्ड कि उनके जले remains यहूद बरामद और interred in successive locations until 1970 when they were again exhumed, cremated and the ashes scattered.
खाते differ as to the कारण of मौत ; एक कि he died by ज़हर only and another that he died by a self-inflicted gunshot, while biting down on a cyanide capsule.
Contemporary historians have rejected these accounts as being either Soviet प्रचार or an attempted सुलह in अनुक्रम to reconcile the अलग conclusions.
One eye-witness recorded that the body showed signs of having महरूम शॉट through the मुँह, लकिन इस रै महरूम सिद्ध unlikely.
There is also controversy regarding the authenticity of कपाल और jaw fragments which were recovered.
In 2009, DNA tests were performed on a कपाल सोवियत officials had long believed to be Hitler 's.
The tests revealed that the skull was actually कि of a स्त्री कम than 40 सालो बूढ़ा.
स्थान of मिसौरी
The alcohol laws of Missouri are among the तनिक restrictive and most lax and permissive in the United States.
Missouri is known throughout the Midwest for its largely laissez-faire दृष्टिकोण to दारू विनियमन, in शार्प कंट्रास्ट to the बहुत सख्त दारू कानून of some of its neighbors, like Kansas and Oklahoma.
Necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF, commonly known as flesh-eating बीमारी or flesh-eating जीवाणु सिंड्रोम, is a विरल संक्रमण of the deeper layers of skin and subcutaneous tissues, easily spreading across the fascial plane within the subcutaneous tissue.
Necrotizing fasciitis is quickly progressing, having greater risk of developing in the immunocompromised due to शर्तें जैसे मधुमेह, कर्कट, इत्यादि.
It is a severe बीमारी of अचानक onset और is प्रायः treated तत्काल with high doses of intravenous antibiotics.
Type I describes a polymicrobial संक्रमण, whereas प्रकार ii describes a monomicrobial infection.
Many प्रकार of जीवाणु can कारण necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g., समूह a streptococcus ( Streptococcus pyogenes ), Staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium perfringens, Bacteroides fragilis, Aeromonas hydrophila ).
Such infections are more संभावित to occur in लोगों साथ compromised प्रतिरक्षा प्रणालियों.
Historically, Group A streptococcus बना up सबसे मामले of Type II infections.
However, since as early as 2001, another serious form of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis रै महरूम observed साथ increasing आवृत्ति, caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ).
Some published case reports have implied a possible link between use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory दवाएँ और nf, हालांकि the प्रमाण of the कड़ी थी कहा to be कमजोर क्युकी of a छोटी क्रमांक of मामला मरीजों और it थी unclear whether the दवाएँ बस नकाबपोश the symptoms of a secondary infection or were a cause per se.
World War II ( WWII or WW2 ), also known as the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, थी a वैश्विक युद्ध कि lasted इससे 1939 to 1945.
It शामिल the विशाल बहुमत of the संसार 's राष्ट्र —including सब of the ग्रेट powers —eventually forming two opposing military alliances : the Allies and the Axis.
It was the most widespread war in history, with more than 100 million people serving in सैन्य इकाई इससे over 30 अलग countries.
In a state of `` total war ``, the major participants placed their entire economic, industrial, and वैज्ञानिक सामर्थ्य at the सेवा of the युद्ध प्रयत्न, erasing the भेद between civilian and military resources.
Marked by mass deaths of civilians, including the holocaust और the तभी उपयोग of नाभिकीय हथियार in warfare, it resulted in 50 million to over 75 million fatalities.
These मौतों मेक संसार युद्ध ii by दूर the deadliest conflict in human history.
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate East Asia and was already at war with the Republic of China in 1937, but the world युद्ध is generally कहा to have begun on 1 सितंबर 1939 साथ the आक्रमण of कैंडल by जर्मनी और subsequent घोषणाओं of war on Germany by France and Britain.
From late 1939 to early 1941, in a series of अभियान और treaties, जर्मनी formed the अक्ष गठबंधन with Italy, conquering or subduing much of continental Europe.
Following the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, Germany and the Soviet संघ partitioned और annexed territories between themselves of their European neighbours, including Poland.
The United Kingdom और the अन्य सदस्यों of the अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल यहूद the तभी प्रमुख अलाइड शक्तियां continuing the लड़ो विरूद्ध the अक्ष, with battles taking place in North Africa as well as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic.
In June 1941, the European Axis launched an invasion of the Soviet Union, giving a start to the largest land theatre of war in history, which tied bas the प्रमुख भाग of the अक्ष ' सैन्य शक्तियां लिये the बाकी of the war.
In December 1941, Japan joined the अक्ष, attacked the संयुक्त राज्य और यूरोपीय territories in the प्रशांत Ocean, and quickly conquered much of the Western Pacific.
The Axis advance was stopped in 1942, after Japan lost a series of naval battles and यूरोपीय अक्ष सैनिकों यहूद पराजित in उत्तर अफ़्रीकी और, decisively, at Stalingrad.
in 1943, साथ a श्रेणी of जर्मनी defeats in पूर्वी यूरोपीय, the अलाइड आक्रमण of इटली, और अमरीकी victories in the Pacific, the Axis lost the initiative and undertook strategic retreat on all fronts.
In 1944, the Western Allies invaded France, जबकि the सोवियत संघ regained सब of इसके territorial नुकसान और invaded Germany and its allies.
दौरान 1944 और 1945 the संयुक्त राज्य पराजित the Japanese Navy and captured key Western Pacific islands.
The war in Europe ended साथ the कैप्चर of बर्लिन by सोवियत और पॉलिश सैनिकों और the subsequent German unconditional surrender on 8 May 1945.
Following the Potsdam घोषणा by the allies on 26 जुलाई 1945, the संयुक्त राज्य dropped परमाणु बम on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima on 6 August, and Nagasaki on 9 August.
With an invasion of the Japanese archipelago imminent, and the सोवियत संघ having घोषित युद्ध on जापानी by आक्रमणकारी मंचूरिया, जापानी surrendered on 15 अगस्त 1945, समाप्ति the युद्ध in एशिया और cementing the total victory of the Allies over the Axis.
World War II altered the राजनैतिक संरेखण and social structure of the world.
The United Nations ( UN ) was स्थापित to फोस्टर अंतरराष्ट्रीय cooperation and prevent future conflicts.
The great powers that were the victors of the war—the United States, the Soviet Union, China, the संयुक्त किंगडम, और france—became the स्थाई सदस्यों of the संयुक्त Nations Security Council.
The Soviet Union and the United States emerged as rival superpowers, सेटिंग the स्टेज लिये the ठंडा युद्ध, जिससे lasted लिये the next 46 years.
Meanwhile, the influence of European great powers started to decline, जबकि the decolonisation of एशिया और अफ़्रीकी began.
Most countries जिनकी उद्योग था महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त स्थानांतरित towards economic recovery.
राजनैतिक संयोजन, विशेषकर in यूरोपीय, उभरा as an प्रयत्न to stabilise postwar relations and fight more effectively in the Cold War.
A limited liability company ( LLC ) is a flexible form of एंटरप्राइज़ कि मिश्रणों तत्व of साझेदारी और कॉरपोरेट structures.
Note than an LLC is not a corporation, और कॉलिंग an llc a निगम is technically गलत.
An LLC is a legal form of company that provides limited देयता to इसके स्वामी in the विशाल बहुमत of संयुक्त राज्य jurisdictions.
LLCs do not need to be व्यवस्थित for profit.
पाँच k-cups
The inside of a used k-cup, साथ the शीर्ष foil और the प्रयुक्त कॉफी grounds removed.
This shows the फिल्टर अंदर the k-cup.
K-Cup portion packs are used with Keurig or अन्य सिंगल कप brewing प्रणालियों to काढ़ा a कप of कॉफी, चाय, or hot chocolate.
Each k-cup is a प्लास्टिक संग्राहक with a coffee filter inside.
Ground coffee beans are packed in the K-Cup and sealed air-tight साथ a संयोजन प्लास्टिक और foil lid.
When the K-Cup is placed in a Keurig brewer, the brewer punctures the foil ढक्कन और the नीचे of the K-Cup and forces hot water under pressure through the K-Cup and into a mug.
Keurig licenses its K-Cup technology to कॉफी roasters और चाय makers ऐसे as ग्रीन पहाड़ कॉफी roasters, diedrich/ ग्लोरिया जीन्स, टिमोथी 's संसार कॉफी, वैन houtte, हिरण कॉफी, celestial seasonings, Bigelow Tea Company, Twinings, Tully 's, Coffee People and Newman 's Own.
Keurig 's patents on the original K-Cup डिज़ाइन समाप्त in सितंबर 2012.
Keurig holds at least one additional, still-active us पेटेंट और another पेटेंट अनुप्रयोग, detailing improvements that have subsequently been incorporated in their K-Cup design.
Electa जेब chronograph ( ca. 1890s ) manufactured by the gallet देखें कम्पनी in La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland.
Gallet MultiChron Astronomic ( ca. 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph with 12 hour recoding सामर्थ्य, स्वचालित दिन, तिथि, माह, और चंद्रमा phase प्रदर्शक
A modern Seiko quartz wristwatch using the chronograph फलन ( movement 7T92 ).
Citizen Atessa Eco-Drive atv53-3023 analog-digital chronograph साथ 4 क्षेत्रफल रेडियो नियंत्रित reception ( North America, Europe, China, Japan ).
A chronograph is a विशिष्ट प्रकार of देखें that is used as a stopwatch combined with a display watch.
A मौलिक chronograph रै an स्वतंत्र स्वीप दूसरी हाथ ; it can be started, stopped, and returned to zero by successive pressure on the stem.
Louis Moinet invented the chronograph in 1816
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral घटक इंटरकनेक्ट, भाग of the पीसीआई लोकल बस मानक और प्रायः shortened to बस पीसीआई ) is a लोकल कंप्यूटर बस लिये attaching hardware devices in a computer.
The PCI bus supports the functions मिला on a प्रोसेसर बस, लकिन in a मानकीकृत स्वरूप कि is स्वतंत्र of any particular processor.
Devices connected to the bus appear to the processor to be connected सीधे to the प्रोसेसर बस, और हैं आबंटित पता in the processor 's address space.
Attached devices can take either the form of an एकीकृत सर्किट fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself, पुकारा a planar device in the PCI specification, or an expansion card that fits into a slot.
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in ibm pc compatibles, जहाँ it विस्थापित the संयोजन of isa प्लस one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration.
It has subsequently been अपनाया लिये अन्य कंप्यूटर प्रकार.
पीसीआई और pci-x हैं होने replaced by पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस, लकिन, सबसे motherboards are still made with one or more PCI slots, which are sufficient for many uses.
The PCI specification covers the शारीरिक आकार of the बस ( सहित the आकार और अंतरण of the सर्किट फलक किनारे विद्युत सम्पर्क ), electrical characteristics, bus timing, and protocols.
The specification can be खरीदा इससे the पीसीआई खास ब्याज Group ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : network cards, sound ताश, modems, अतिरिक्त ports such as USB or serial, TV tuner cards and disk controllers.
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards, until growing बैंडविड्थ आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the सामर्थ्य of पीसीआई ; the preferred interface for video cards became AGP, and then PCI Express.
PCI video cards remain available for use with बूढ़ा pcs बगैर अगप or पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस slots.
Many devices previously provided on PCI विस्तार ताश हैं अभी commonly एकीकृत onto motherboards or उपलब्धियाँ in सार्वभौमिक सीरियल बस और पीसीआई Express versions.
Michael Whitaker Smith ( born अक्तूबर 7, 1957 ) is an अमरीकी contemporary Christian musician, who has charted primarily in the contemporary Christian and occasionally in the mainstream charts.
His biggest success in mainstream music was in 1991 जब `` प्लेस in इस संसार '' hit no. 6 on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100.
Smith is a three-time ग्रैमी पुरस्कार विजेता, और रै अर्जित 40 Dove Awards.
Over the course of his career, he बेची अधिक than 13 लाख एल्बम और अंकित 29 no. 1 hit गीतों, चौदह gold albums, and five platinum albums.
Smith is an American Music Award recipient ; he was also named एक of लोगों पत्रिका 's `` सबसे खूबसूरत लोगों ''.
An अमरीकी पोस्टर इससे the संसार युद्ध ii -era कि थी प्रयुक्त to inform लोगों परिचय what they should do if they suspect sabotage.
Sabotage is a deliberate कार्रवाई aimed at weakening another एंटिटी through subversion, obstruction, disruption, or destruction.
In a कार्यस्थल सेटिंग, तोड़फोड़ is the सचेत वापसी of efficiency generally directed at causing some change in workplace conditions.
One who engages in तोड़फोड़ is a saboteur.
As a rule, saboteurs कोशिश to छिपाते उनके पहचान because of the consequences of their actions.
For example, whereas an environmental pressure group might be प्रसन्न to be पहचाना साथ an अधिनियम of तोड़फोड़, it होता नहीं want the व्यक्तिगत पहचान of the perpetrators known.
Patrick Henry कॉलेज ( phc ) is a निजी, स्वतंत्र कॉलेज साथ an धर्मान्तरण ईसाई आधार कि focuses on शिक्षण classical liberal arts and government, located in Purcellville, Virginia, United States.
Patrick Henry is ज्ञात लिये इसके conservative evangelical Christian focus.
As of April 17, 2007, the college was accredited by the transnational संघ of ईसाई कॉलेजों और स्कूलों, a नेशनल faith-related accrediting संगठन पहचाना by the Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation.
The school was founded with the help of the Home School Legal Defense Association, and now serves as the मुख्यालय लिये the संगठन, साथ जिससे it is still closely connected.
The history of टेलीविज़न comprises the कार्य of numerous इंजीनियर्स और आविष्कारक in अनेक countries over many decades.
The earliest proposal was in 1908, in a paper by A. A. campbell-swinton और postulated the उपयोग of cathode rays.
The first practical demonstrations of टेलीविज़न, however, यहूद विकसित using electromechanical विधि to स्कैन, संचारण, and reproduce an image.
As electronic camera and display tubes were perfected, electromechanical टेलीविज़न दिया रास्ता to all-electronic प्रणालियों in nearly all applications.
L'Idéal cinéma - ज़ाक tati at aniche खोली नवम्बर 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active movie theater in the world
A सिनेमा in ऑस्ट्रेलिया
A typical मल्टीप्लेक्स ( एएमसी सैर 16 in वुडलैंड Hills, Los Angeles, U.S. )
A movie theater ( also called a सिनेमा, फिल्म हाउस, फिल्मी हाउस, फिल्मी थिएटर or चित्र हाउस ) is a स्थान, प्रायः a भवन, for viewing films.
Most but not all movie theaters are commercial परिचालन केटरिंग to the सामान्य पब्लिक, who attend by purchasing a ticket.
The फिल्म is प्रक्षिप्त साथ a फिल्म प्रोजेक्टर onto a विशाल प्रक्षेप स्क्रीन at the front of the auditorium.
Most फिल्म थिएटर हैं अभी equipped लिये डिजिटल सिनेमा प्रक्षेप, निकालना the need to create and transport a physical film print.
Southern California Norton Owner 's Club on कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य रूट 41, निकट creston.
A motorcycle club is a group of individuals whose प्राथमिक ब्याज और क्रियाएँ involve मोटरसाइकिल.
Lyme disease, Lyme borreliosis is an संक्रामक बीमारी caused by at तनिक तीन प्रजाति of जीवाणु belonging to the genus Borrelia.
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the main cause of Lyme disease in उत्तर अमेरिका, whereas borrelia afzelii और borrelia garinii कारण सबसे यूरोपीय cases.
The disease is named after the towns of Lyme and Old lyme, कनेक्टिकट, यूएसए, जहाँ a क्रमांक of मामले यहूद पहचाना in 1975.
Although Allen Steere realized that Lyme disease was a tick-borne disease in 1978, the cause of the बीमारी remained a रहस्य जबतक 1981, जब B. burgdorferi थी पहचाना by Willy Burgdorfer.
Lyme disease is the most आम tick-borne बीमारी in the उत्तरी Hemisphere.
borrelia is transmitted to इंसानो by the काटना of संक्रमित ticks belonging to a few species of the genus Ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ).
Early symptoms may include ज्वर, सिरदर्द, थकान, अवसाद, और a characteristic circular skin rash called erythema migrans ( EM ).
Left untreated, later लक्षण may involve the joints, दिल, and central nervous system.
In most cases, the infection and its symptoms हैं eliminated by एंटीबायोटिक, विशेषकर if the illness is treated early.
Delayed or inadequate treatment can lead to more गंभीर लक्षण, जिससे can be disabling और difficult to treat.
penises of minke whales on प्रदर्शक at the Icelandic Phallological Museum
Penis ( plural penises or penes ) is a general term for the organs with which male and hermaphrodite पशु introduce शुक्राणु into receptive महिलाओं दौरान copulation.
Such organs occur in many animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate, but males do not bear a penis in every animal species, and in those प्रजाति in जिससे the पुरूष करता भालू a so-called शिश्न, the penes in the विभिन्न प्रजाति are not necessarily homologous.
For example, the penis of a mammal is at most analogous to the शिश्न of a पुरूष कीट or barnacle.
The term penis applies to many reproductive intromittent organs, but not to all ; for उदाहरण the intromittent अंग of सबसे cephalopoda is the hectocotylus, a specialised भुजा, और पुरूष मकड़ियों use their pedipalps.
In most species of animals in which there is an organ that might reasonably be described as a penis, it has no major function other than intromission, or at तनिक conveying the शुक्राणु to the मादा, लकिन in the placental स्तनधारियों the शिश्न bears the distal भाग of the urethra, जिससे discharges दोनो मूत्र दौरान urination और वीर्य दौरान copulation as the occasion requires.
कलाकारों और रंगमंडल ( a & r ) is the प्रभाग of a रिकार्ड label or music publishing company that is responsible for talent scouting and overseeing the artistic development of recording artists and/or songwriters.
It also acts as a liaison between कलाकारों और the रिकार्ड लेबल or प्रकाशन कम्पनी ; प्रत्येक कार्यकलाप involving कलाकारों to the पाइंट of एल्बम रिलीज is generally considered under the purview of, and responsibility of, A & R.
A furlong is a measure of distance in इम्पीरियल इकाई और u.S. प्रथागत इकाई बराबर to one-eighth of a मील, equivalent to 220 yards, 660 feet, 40 rods, or 10 chains.
The exact value of the furlong varies थोड़ा among english-speaking countries.
Five furlongs are approximately 1 किलोमीटर ( 1.0058 km is a करीब सन्निकटन ).
Since the original definition of the metre was one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the circumference of the Earth ( along the great circle coincident साथ the मध्याह्न of देशांतर गुजर through पेरिस ), the परिधि of the धरती is परिचय 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs.
CR2032 लिथियम बटन cell battery
लिथियम 9 वोल्ट, aa, & AAA sizes
Lithium batteries हैं डिस्पोजेबल ( प्राथमिक ) बैटरी कि have लिथियम मेटल or lithium compounds as an anode.
They stand apart from other बैटरी in उनके ऊँची चार्ज density ( long life ) and high cost per unit.
Depending on the design and chemical compounds used, lithium cells can produce voltages इससे 1.5 v ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or क्षारीय बैटरी ) to परिचय 3.7 V. लिथियम बैटरी हैं widely प्रयुक्त in उत्पाद ऐसे as पोर्टेबल consumer electronic devices.
रेमंड `` रे '' चार्ल्स जोकर lamontagne ( ; born June 18, 1973 ) is an American singer-songwriter.
LaMontagne has released four studio एल्बम, ट्रबल, तक the सूर्य turns ब्लैक, गपशप in the अनाज and God Willin ' & the Creek Do n't Rise.
He was born in New हैम्पशायर और थी प्रेरित to बनाएँ म्यूज़िक बाद सुनना an album by Stephen Stills.
Critics have compared LaMontagne 's music to that of the बैंड, वैन मॉरिसन, उपनाम ड्रेक, and Tim Buckley.
He lives in Massachusetts साथ उसके बीवी और दो children.
When the Wind blows is a अनोखा by जेम्स पैटरसन.
It is the precursor to the झील हाउस और प्रेरित the अधिकतम Ride series.
The novel is फिलहाल नियत to be adapted into a movie.
The पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स यहूद संस्थापित in 1933.
Over the course of the team 's history, the team has था अनेक लोगो जबकि wearing वस्तुतः the वही वर्दी over the सालो, साथ हल्का परिवर्तन बना to दे the वर्दी an updated look.
The team colors, uniforms, और लोगो हैं प्रायः क्रमित as being among the best in the NFL.
Facebook on the ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service, whose name stems from the colloquial नाम लिये the किताब दिए to विद्यार्थी at the प्रारंभ of the अकादमिक साल by कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों administrations in the संयुक्त राज्य to help students get to know each other.
It was संस्थापित in फ़रवरी 2004 by चिह्नित zuckerberg साथ उसके कॉलेज roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी एडुआर्डो saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.
The website 's membership was initially सीमित by the संस्थापकों to हार्वर्ड विद्यार्थी, लकिन थी विस्तारित to अन्य कॉलेजों in the बोस्टन क्षेत्रफल, the आइवी लीग, और Stanford University.
It gradually added support for students at various other विश्वविद्यालयों पहले खोलने to ऊँची स्कूल विद्यार्थी, और आखिरकार to anyone aged 13 and over.
Facebook now allows any users who घोषित themselves to be at तनिक 13 सालो बूढ़ा to become पंजीकृत users of the site.
Users must register before using the site, after which they may create a personal profile, add other उपयोक्ता as मित्रों, और एक्सचेंज संदेश, सहित स्वचालित सूचनाएं जब वे अद्यतन उनके profile.
Additionally, users may join common-interest उपयोक्ता समूह, व्यवस्थित by कार्यस्थल, स्कूल or कॉलेज, or other characteristics, and categorize their friends into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends ''.
As of September 2012, Facebook has over one अरब क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता.
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports सर्वेक्षण, वहीँ हैं 7.5 लाख children अंतर्गत 13 साथ खाते और 5 लाख अंतर्गत 10, violating the site 's terms of service.
In May 2005, Accel partners invested $ 12.7 लाख in फेसबुक, और जिम breyer added $ 1 लाख of his own money to the pot.
A January 2009 compete.com पढ़ाई क्रमित फेसबुक as the सबसे प्रयुक्त सोशल networking service by worldwide monthly active users.
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list, saying, `` How on धरती किया we stalk हमारी exes, याद हमारी co-workers ' जन्मदिन, कीड़ा हमारी मित्रों, और खेल a rousing खेल of scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics, such as Facebook Detox, state that Facebook has turned into a नेशनल obsession in the संयुक्त राज्य, resulting in विशाल amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism.
Quantcast estimates फेसबुक रै 138.9 लाख मासिक अद्वितीय u.S. विज़िटर in May 2011.
according to सोशल मीडिया आज, in अप्रैल 2010 an अनुमानित 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the U.S. population had a Facebook account.
Nevertheless, Facebook 's market growth प्रारंभ to स्टाल in कुछ regions, साथ the साईट खोने 7 लाख क्रियाशील users in the United States and Canada in May 2011.
फेसबुक आखिरकार दायर लिये an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering on फ़रवरी 1, 2012, and was headquartered in Menlo Park, California.
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the पब्लिक और व्यापार on the नैस्डैक on May 18, 2012.
Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel ( 15 नवम्बर 1891 – 14 अक्तूबर 1944 ), popularly ज्ञात as The Desert Fox ( Wüstenfuchs, ), was a German Field Marshal of World War II.
He earned the respect of both his अपना सैनिकों और the दुश्मनों he लड़ा.
Rommel was a highly decorated officer in World War I and was awarded the डालना le mérite लिये उसके कारनामे on the इतालवी front.
In World War II, he further distinguished himself as the कमांडर of the 7th panzer प्रभाग दौरान the 1940 आक्रमण of फ़्रांस.
His leadership of German and Italian forces in the North African campaign established him as one of the most able कमांडरों of the युद्ध, और अर्जित उसे the appellation of the मरुस्थल फॉक्स.
He is regarded as one of the सबसे skilled कमांडरों of मरुस्थल warfare in the conflict.
He later commanded the German forces opposing the अलाइड cross-channel आक्रमण in normandy.
His assignments never took उसे to the पूर्वी सामने.
ख़बरों is regarded as having महरूम a दयालु and professional officer.
His afrika कोर्प्स थी never अभियुक्त of युद्ध अपराधों, और सैनिको captured during his Africa campaign were reported to have been treated humanely.
Orders to kill यहूदी सैनिको, नागरिकों और captured commandos were ignored.
Late in the war, Rommel was linked to the षड्यंत्र to assassinate एडोल्फ हिटलर.
Since Rommel was a नेशनल नायिका, हिटलर desired to eliminate him quietly.
He forced Rommel to commit suicide with a cyanide pill, in return for assurances that Rommel 's परिवार होता नहीं be persecuted following उसके death.
Stained glass representation of the पावन स्पिरिट as a dove, c. 1660.
The seven gifts of the Holy Spirit is an enumeration of seven spiritual gifts originating with patristic लेखक, बाद elaborated by पाँच बौद्धिक virtues और चार अन्य groups of ethical characteristics.
They are : wisdom, understanding, wonder and awe ( fear of the रब ), counsel, ज्ञान, fortitude, and piety ( reverence ).
The Earth Day Flag, the नवीनतम प्रस्ताव of जॉन mcconnell लिये a flag of Earth Day
Earth Day is an annual event, मनाये on अप्रैल 22, on जिससे कार्यक्रम हैं आयोजित विश्वव्यापी to demonstrate support for environmental protection.
It was first celebrated in 1970, and is अभी समन्वित globally by the धरती दिन संजाल, और मनाये in more than 192 countries each year.
In 1969 at a युनेस्को सम्मेलन in सैन फ्रांसिस्को, the date proposed was March 21, 1970, the first day of spring in the northern hemisphere.
This day of nature 's equipoise was बाद मंजूर in a उदघोषणा हस्ताक्षरित by Secretary General U Thant at the United Nations.
A month later a पृथक धरती दिन थी संस्थापित by संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटर gaylord नेल्सन as an पर्यावरणीय teach-in first held on April 22, 1970.
नेल्सन थी बाद awarded the अध्यक्षीय Medal of Freedom Award in recognition of his work.
While this अप्रैल 22 धरती दिन थी केन्द्रित on the संयुक्त राज्य, an संगठन शुभारम्भ by डेनिस हेज़, who was the original national coordinator in 1970, took it international in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations.
Numerous समुदायों celebrate धरती सप्ताह, an संपूर्ण सप्ताह of क्रियाएँ focused on environmental issues.
Iodine is a chemical तत्व साथ प्रतीक i और परमाणु number 53.
The name is from Greek ioeidēs, अर्थ बैंगनी or जामुनी, due to the color of elemental iodine vapor.
Iodine and its यौगिकों हैं primarily प्रयुक्त in पोषण, और industrially in the production of acetic acid and certain polymers.
Iodine 's relatively high atomic number, low toxicity, and ease of अनुलग्नक to सशुल्क यौगिकों have बना it a भाग of अनेक x-ray contrast materials in modern medicine.
आयोडीन रै तभी एक stable isotope.
a क्रमांक of आयोडीन radioisotopes are also used in medical applications.
Iodine is found on Earth mainly as the highly water-soluble iodide आयन, i−, जिससे concentrates it in महासागर और brine pools.
Like the अन्य हैलोजन्स, फ़्री आयोडीन occurs मुख्यतः as a diatomic अणु i2, और तब तभी momentarily बाद being oxidized from iodide by an oxidant like free oxygen.
In the universe और on धरती, आयोडीन 's ऊँची परमाणु number makes it a relatively rare element.
However, इसके उपस्थिति in समंदर जल has given it a role in biology.
It is the heaviest अनिवार्य तत्व utilized widely by जीवन in biological कृत्यों ( तभी टंगस्टन, employed in enzymes by a few species of bacteria, is heavier ).
Iodine 's rarity in many soils, due to आरंभिक कम प्रचुरता as a crust-element, और भी leaching of घुलनशील आयोडाइड by rainwater, रै led to many deficiency problems in land animals and inland human populations.
Iodine deficiency affects परिचय दो अरब लोगों और is the अग्रणी preventable cause of intellectual disabilities.
Iodine is required by higher पशु, जिससे उपयोग it to synthesize थायराइड हार्मोन, which contain the element.
क्युकी of इस फलन, radioisotopes of आयोडीन हैं concentrated in the थायराइड gland along with nonradioactive iodine.
If inhaled, the radioisotope iodine-131, which has a high fission उत्पाद उपज, concentrates in the थायराइड, but is easily remedied with potassium iodide treatment.
Lobbying ( also lobby ) is the act of attempting to influence निर्णय बना by officials in the सरकारी, सबसे प्रायः legislators or members of regulatory agencies.
Lobbying is done by many different types of लोगों और व्यवस्थित समूह, सहित individuals in the निजी सेक्टर, corporations, fellow legislators or government officials, or advocacy groups ( interest groups ).
Lobbyists may be among a legislator 's constituencies, अर्थ a वोटर or bloc of मतदाता भीतर उसके or उसके चुनावी ज़िला, or नहीं ; वे may engage in lobbying as a business, or not.
Professional lobbyists are people whose business is trying to influence विधान on निमित्त of a समूह or व्यक्तिगत जो hires उन्हें.
Individuals and nonprofit organizations can भी लॉबी as an अधिनियम of स्वयंसेवा or as a छोटी भाग of उनके सामान्य जॉब ( लिये उदाहरण, a CEO meeting with a representative about a project important to his/her company, or an activist meeting with his/her legislator in an unpaid capacity ).
Governments often define and विनियमित व्यवस्थित समूह lobbying कि रै become influential.
The आचार और नैतिकता of lobbying are.
Lobbying is often spoken of with contempt, when the implication is that लोगों साथ अत्यधिक socioeconomic शक्ति हैं corrupting the विधि ( टेढ़ी it दूर from fairness ) in order to serve their own conflict of interest.
But another side of lobbying is making sure that others ' interests are duly defended विरूद्ध अन्य ' भ्रष्टाचार, or भी बस बनाना यकीनन कि minority interests are fairly defended against mere tyranny of the majority.
For example, a medical association, or a trade association of health insurance companies, may lobby a legislature in order to counteract the influence of tobacco कंपनियाँ, in जिससे मामला the lobbying होता be viewed by सबसे लोगों as जायज ( विधिवत defending विरूद्ध अन्य ' भ्रष्टाचार ).
The difficulty in drawing objective lines between which lobbyists are `` good lobbyists '' and जिससे ones हैं `` ख़राब ones '' is compounded by the cleverness साथ जिससे lobbyists or उनके clients can argue that their own lobbying is of the `` good '' kind.
At heart, the effort to influence विधान is a power struggle.
As in other forms of power struggle, such as war or law प्रवर्तन, motives दायरा इससे to self-defense to लड़ लिये इंसाफ, और the dividing लकीर between predation और इंसाफ is विषय to rationalization.
Sunshine of अपना प्रेम गिटार रिफ
मलाई यहूद a 1960s अंग्रेजों चट्टान supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist Jack Bruce, guitarist/vocalist Eric Clapton, and drummer Ginger Baker.
Their sound was characterised by a संकर of ब्लूज़ चट्टान, मुश्किल चट्टान और साइकेडेलिक चट्टान, combining the psychedelia-themed गीत, eric क्लैप्टन 's ब्लूज़ गिटार playing and vocals, Jack Bruce 's voice and prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming.
The group 's तीसरा एल्बम, पहियों of आग, थी the संसार 's पहला platinum-selling double album.
Cream are widely regarded as होने the संसार 's पहला कामयाब supergroup.
In their करियर, वे बेची over 15 लाख albums worldwide.
Cream 's music included songs based on परंपरागत ब्लूज़ ऐसे as `` क्रॉसरोड्स `` और `` spoonful ``, और आधुनिक ब्लूज़ ऐसे as `` Born Under a Bad Sign ``, as well as more eccentric songs such as `` Strange Brew ``, `` Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and `` Toad ``.
Cream 's biggest hits were `` I Feel Free `` ( UK, क्रमांक 11 ), `` सनशाइन of अपना प्रेम `` ( us, क्रमांक 5 ), `` श्वेत रूम `` ( us, number 6 ), `` Crossroads '' ( US, number 28 ), and `` Badge `` ( UK, number 18 ).
Cream made a significant impact on the popular music of the समय, और, साथ साथ जिमि हेंड्रिक्स, और टेरी कठ of Chicago, popularised the use of the wah-wah pedal.
They provided a heavy yet technically निपुण musical थीम कि foreshadowed और बहकावे the emergence of अंग्रेजों bands such as The Jeff Beck Group in the late 1960s.
the बैंड 's सजीव प्रदर्शन बहकावे progressive rock acts such as Rush.
Cream were inducted into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of Fame in 1993.
They were शामिल in दोनो रोलिंग स्टोन और vh1 's सूचियाँ of the `` 100 महानतम Artists of All Time ''.
They were also क्रमित क्रमांक 16 on vh1 's `` 100 महानतम Artists of Hard Rock ''.
Hairspray is a 1988 comedy film लिखा और निर्देशित by जॉन waters, और अभिनीत ricki झील, सन्नी बोनो, डिब्बी Harry, Michael St. Gerard, Shawn Thompson, Colleen Fitzpatrick, Jerry Stiller, and in his last film role, Divine.
Hairspray was a dramatic प्रस्थान इससे waters ' पहले works, साथ a much broader intended audience.
In fact, hairsprays pg is the mildest दरजा a waters फिल्मी रै प्राप्त ; most of his previous films were rated X by the MPAA.
Set in 1962 Baltimore, Maryland, the film revolves around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' किशोरावस्था ट्रेसी turnblad as वो pursues स्टारडम as a नर्तकी on a लोकल tv दिखाएँ और rallies against racial segregation.
Hairspray थी तभी a मॉडरेट कामयाबी upon इसके आरंभिक नाट्य release, earning a modest gross of $ 8 million.
However, it प्रबंधित to आकर्षित a larger दर्शक on घर वीडियो in the early 1990s and became a cult classic.
Most critics praised the film, although some were displeased साथ the overall campiness.
In 2002, the film was adapted into a Broadway musical of the same name, which जीती आठ टोनी पुरस्कार, सहित बेहतरीन musical in 2003.
A second फिल्मी संस्करण of hairspray, an अनुकूलन of the स्टेज musical, थी भी released by नई लकीर Cinema in 2007, which included many changes of scripted items from the original.
The film भी बाँधने # 444 on साम्राज्य पत्रिका 's 2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all time.
a ईसाई denomination is an identifiable धार्मिक देह अंतर्गत a आम नाम, structure, and doctrine within Christianity.
Some groups शामिल do नहीं consider themselves a denomination ( e.g., the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर considers itself the one true church and the Apostolic See, and as pre-denominational ).
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist being called a denomination and do not have any औपचारिक denominational ढांचा, प्राधिकार, or record-keeping परे the लोकल सभा ; अनेक समूह भीतर Restoration Movement fall into this category.
Some groups are large ( e.g. Catholics, Lutherans, Anglicans or Baptists ), जबकि अन्य हैं बस a few छोटी चर्च, और in सबसे मामले the सापेक्ष आकार is नहीं evident in this list.
Modern movements such as Fundamentalist Christianity, Pietism, Evangelicalism, Pentecostalism and the Holiness movement sometimes क्रॉस denominational लाइनों, or in कुछ मामले बनाएँ नई denominations आउट of दो or अधिक continuing समूह, ( as is the मामला for many United and uniting churches, for example ).
Such subtleties and complexities हैं नहीं clearly depicted here.
Major विभाजन भीतर christianity.
Note : This is not a पूरा सूची, लकिन aims to provide a comprehensible अवलोकन of the diversity among denominations of Christianity.
As there are reported to be approximately 41,000 Christian denominations, many of which can not be verified to be significant, only those denominations with Wikipedia आलेख होगा be सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम to ensure कि सब प्रविष्टियां on इस सूची हैं notable and verifiable.
Between denominations, theologians, and comparative religionists there are considerable disagreements about which groups can be properly पुकारा ईसाई, मतभिन्नता arising primarily इससे doctrinal मतभेद between groups.
For the purpose of simplicity, this list is intended to प्रतिबिंबित the self-understanding of प्रत्येक denomination.
Explanations of अलग राय concerning उनके औकात as ईसाई denominations can be found at their respective articles.
There is no official recognition in सबसे भाग of the संसार लिये धार्मिक लाशें, और वहीँ is no official clearinghouse which could determine the status or respectability of religious bodies.
Often there is considerable disagreement between various churches about whether other चर्च चाहिए be labeled साथ pejorative शर्तें ऐसे as `` cult '', or परिचय whether this or that group enjoys some measure of respectability.
Such considerations often vary from place to place, where one religious group may enjoy majority status in एक प्रदेश, लकिन be widely regarded as a `` खतरनाक cult '' in another भाग of the world.
Inclusion on this list does not indicate कोई निर्णय परिचय the आकार, महत्व, or character of a group or its members.
1804 map of `` louisiana ``, edged on the वेस्ट by the Rocky Mountains.
The louisiana खरीदें ( `` बिक्री of louisiana '' ) थी the acquisition by the United States of America in 1803 of of France 's claim to the territory of Louisiana.
The U.S. paid 50 million francs ( $ 11,250,000 ) प्लस रद्दीकरण of debts लायक 18 लाख francs ( $ 3,750,000 ), लिये a कुल sum of 15 million dollars ( less than 3 cents per acre ) for the Louisiana territory ( $ million in dollars, less than 42 cents per acre ).
The Louisiana territory encompassed सब or भाग of 15 present U.S. states and two Canadian provinces.
The land purchased contained all of present-day अरकंसास, मिसौरी, आयोवा, ओक्लाहोमा, कान्सास, और नेब्रास्का ; भाग of मिनेसोटा कि यहूद वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी ; सबसे of उत्तर डकोटा ; सबसे of दक्षिण डकोटा ; northeastern नई मैक्सिको ; उत्तरी टेक्सास ; the portions of Montana, Wyoming, and Colorado east of the Continental Divide ; Louisiana west of the Mississippi River, including the city of New Orleans ; and small portions of land that would eventually become part of the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan.
France controlled this vast area from 1699 until 1762, the साल it दिया the territory to इसके ally Spain.
Under नेपोलियन बोनापार्ट, फ़्रांस took वापस the territory in 1800 in the hope of building an empire in North America.
A slave revolt in Haiti and an impending युद्ध साथ ब्रिटेन, however, led फ़्रांस to लापरवाही ये योजनाएँ और बेचें the संपूर्ण territory to the United States, who had originally intended only to seek the purchase of New Orleans and its adjacent lands.
The purchase of the territory of Louisiana took place during the प्रेसिडेंसी of थामस जेफरसन.
At the समय, the खरीदें faced घरेलू विपक्ष because it was thought to be unconstitutional.
Although he सहमत कि the u.S. संविधान किया नहीं contain प्रावधानों लिये acquiring territory, जेफरसन decided to go ahead with the purchase anyway in order to remove France 's presence in the region and to protect both U.S. trade access to the port of New Orleans and free passage on the Mississippi River.
Ceremony at Place d'Armes, New Orleans marking transfer of Louisiana to the United States, 10 कूच 1804, as चित्रित by thure de Thulstrup.
`` Cool Jerk '' is a लोकप्रिय सोंग लिखा by डोनाल्ड storball और originally performed by The Capitols.
Released in 1966, it reached no. 2 on the अमरीकी r & b चार्ट और no. 7 on the pop chart.
The backing track for this song was actually अंकित ( secretly ) by the motown हाउस बैंड the दुर्गंध Brothers.
Per one of the Funk भाइयो, the सोंग थी originally to be called `` Pimp Jerk. ''
इस थी लिया इससे watching पड़ोस pimps, who would dance in the clubs, but were too `` cool '' to do the jerk like regular folks.
Their version was subsequently नामित `` the Pimp Jerk. ''
The producer was afraid that a song with the word pimp in the title होता be बैन or नहीं प्राप्त much धनात्मक ध्यान, और था the शीर्षक बदला to इसके वर्तमान form.
The Go-Go 's, टॉड rundgren, बिग ट्रबल, इंसान यौन जवाब, The La De Da 's, The Creation, and The Coasters have covered the song.
Todd Rundgren did his version in an odd time हस्ताक्षर ( 7/4 ), giving an obviously jerky महसूस to the सोंग.
The Go-Go 's covered the song for their 1982 album अवकाश और बाद re-recorded it लिये उनके 1990 एल्बम Greatest.
In the feature film Home Alone 2 : Lost in New York, Uncle Frank ( gerry bamman ) गाती `` कूल झटका '' in the बरसात.
A संस्करण of the सोंग साथ अलग गीत ( `` Do the Cool Whip '' ) is used in Cool Whip commercials.
A recording of `` Cool Jerk '' by Ricardo Ray is featured in the विशेषता फिल्मी donnie brasco ( 1997 ).
The song features in the film Standing in the साए of motown, performed by the दुर्गंध भाइयो साथ lead vocals by Bootsy Collins.
The सोंग is सुना briefly in the एनिमेटेड विशेषता, मेडागास्कर 3 : Europe 's Most Wanted.
despite इस कारण, it is listed in some variations of the film 's soundtrack.
A league is a unit of लंबाई ( or, rarely, क्षेत्रफल ).
It was long common in यूरोपीय और लैटिन अमेरिका, लकिन it is no longer an official unit in any nation.
The लीग originally referred to the अलहदा a person could walk in an hour.
Since the Middle Ages, many मान have महरूम निर्दिष्ट in अनेक countries.
In the context of nautical distances, the 3 mile ( 4.8 km ) distance corresponds to how far an observer of औसत ऊँचाई ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can देखिए जब खड़ा at समुद्र स्तर.
Thus, a ship traveling one `` league '' has reached कया थी previously the farthest visible distance on the horizon.
The lack of a historical and वैश्विक मानक लिये the सटीक माप of a `` लीग '' can be accounted लिये by the परिवर्तनीय उन्नयन of the observer ( i.e., sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ).
The Irish state came into being in 1922 as the आयरिश फ़्री राज्य, a डोमिनियन of the अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल, having seceded इससे the संयुक्त किंगडम under the Anglo-Irish Treaty.
It comprises 26 of आयरलैंड 's 32 काउंटी.
Since 1949 it has existed as the गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड.
From its foundation, the Irish Free राज्य थी embroiled in a सिविल युद्ध between राष्ट्रवादियों supporting the Treaty and opponents who supported a republic.
The pro-Treaty side, संगठित as cumann na ngaedheal उभरा विजयी इससे the conflict and won subsequent elections.
They formed the सरकारी of the राज्य जबतक 1932, जब वे शांतिपूर्वक हात over शक्ति to the anti-treaty faction in Fianna Fáil, who defeated them in an election.
The Irish state, despite इसके हिंसक beginnings, has remained a liberal democracy throughout its existence.
A new constitution in 1937 removed many of the links with Britain established under the Treaty and Ireland 's neutrality in the दूसरी संसार युद्ध demonstrated इसके स्वतंत्रता in विदेशी नीति matters इससे Britain.
In 1948 Ireland formally left the British राष्ट्रमंडल और अपनाया the शीर्षक of `` गणतंत्र ''.
In the economic गोला, the आयरिश राज्य रै था a mixed performance.
On independence, it थी एक of the wealthier देशों in Europe per head of population.
However it also inherited from British rule the समस्याएं of बेरोजगारी, करणों, uneven भौगोलिक विकास और कमी of a native industrial base.
For much of its history, the state struggled to rectify these problems.
Particular peaks of emigration were recorded during the लेट 1930s, 1950s और 1980s, जब the Irish economy recorded little growth.
In the 1930s, fianna fáil सरकारें attempted to create Irish domestic industries using subsidies and protective tarifs.
In the late 1950s, these policies were dropped in favour of फ़्री व्यापार साथ चयनित देशों और प्रोत्साहित of foreign investment with low taxes.
This was expanded when Ireland entered the यूरोपीय आर्थिक जातियाँ in 1972.
In the 1990s and 2000s, आयरलैंड अनुभवी an आर्थिक बूम ज्ञात as the सेल्टिक बाघ, in जिससे the देश 's GDP surpassed many of its European neighbours.
Immigration also surpassed करणों, bringing the राज्य 's जनसांख्यिकी up to over 4 million.
However, since 2008, Ireland रै अनुभवी a कठोर संकट in the बैंकिंग सेक्टर and with sovereign debt.
The resultant economic slump has deepened the प्रभाव of the संसार मंदी on Ireland.
इससे 1937 to 1998, the आयरिश संविधान शामिल a claim on Northern Ireland as a part of the national territory.
However, the state also opposed and used its security forces against those armed groups - प्रधानतया the अस्थायी आयरिश रिपब्लिकन फौज, जो आजमाया to unite Ireland by force.
This occurred in the 1950s, throughout the 1970s and 1980s और रै जारी on a घटाया स्केल.
Irish governments meanwhile tried to broker an agreement to the conflict ज्ञात as the परेशानियों भीतर उत्तरी आयरलैंड इससे 1968 to the लेट 1990s.
The British सरकारी officially recognised the सही of the आयरिश सरकारी to be a पार्टी to the Northern negotiations in the Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985.
In 1998, as part of the Good शुक्रवार अनुबंध, the आयरिश संविधान थी altered by referendum to हटाएँ the territorial अर्जी to उत्तरी आयरलैंड and instead extend the right of Irish citizenship to all the people of the island should they wish to have it.
जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स ( जुलाई 11, 1767february 23, 1848 ) was the sixth President of the United States ( 1825–1829 ).
He served as American diplomat, सीनेटर, और congressional representative.
He was a member of the federalist, democratic-republican, नेशनल रिपब्लिकन, and later Anti-Masonic and Whig parties.
Adams was the बेटे of पूर्व अध्यक्ष जॉन एडम्स और अबीगैल एडम्स.
As a diplomat, Adams played an important role in negotiating many international treaties, most notably the सन्धि of ghent, जिससे ended the युद्ध of 1812.
As Secretary of State, he negotiated with the United Kingdom over America 's northern border साथ कनाडा, negotiated साथ स्पेन the annexation of फ्लोरिडा, and authored the Monroe Doctrine.
Historians agree he was one of the greatest diplomats and secretaries of राज्य in अमरीकी history.
As president, he sought to modernize the अमरीकी अर्थव्यवस्था और प्रचारित शिक्षा.
Adams enacted a part of his agenda और सशुल्क बंद much of the नेशनल debt.
He was stymied by a कॉंग्रेस नियंत्रित by उसके दुश्मनों, and his lack of patronage networks helped politicians eager to undercut him.
He lost उसके 1828 बोली लिये re-election to एंड्रयू Jackson.
In doing so, he became the first अध्यक्ष चूंकि उसके पिता to serve a सिंगल पद.
Adams is best known as a diplomat who shaped America 's विदेशी नीति in लकीर साथ उसके ardently nationalist commitment to America 's republican values.
More recently Howe ( 2007 ) portrayed एडम्स as the exemplar और moral leader in an era of modernization.
During Adams ' आजीवन, technological नवप्रवर्तनों और नई अर्थात् of संचार स्प्रेड messages of religious revival, social reform, and party politics.
Goods, money, and people traveled अधिक rapidly और efficiently than ever before.
Adams was elected a U.S. प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स बाद leaving दफ्तर, सेवारत लिये the पिछला 17 सालो of उसके जीवन साथ far greater acclamation than he had achieved as president.
He is, so far, the तभी अध्यक्ष बाद निर्वाचित to the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि ( though John Tyler was elected to the House of Representatives of the Confederate States just before his death in 1862 ).
Animated by his growing revulsion against slavery, एडम्स became a अग्रणी प्रतिद्वन्दी of the स्लेव शक्ति.
He predicted that if a सिविल युद्ध यहूद to ब्रेक out, the president could abolish slavery by using his war powers.
Adams भी पूर्वानुमानित the संघ 's विच्छेद over the गुलामी समस्या, लकिन कहा that if the South became independent there would be a series of bloody slave revolts.
खिड़कियाँ अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 9 ( ie9 ) is a version of the Internet Explorer web browser from Microsoft.
It was released to the पब्लिक on कूच 14, 2011.
Microsoft has released Internet Explorer 9 as a major out-of-band version that is not tied to the release अनुसूची of कोई particular संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ, नापसंद पिछला संस्करण.
It is the first version since Internet Explorer 2 to not be bundled with a Windows ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली, हालांकि कुछ oems have संस्थापित it साथ खिड़कियाँ 7 on उनके pcs, as खूब as नई Windows 7 laptops.
The system requirements for Internet Explorer 9 are Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows Vista सेवा पैक 2 or खिड़कियाँ सर्वर 2008 sp2 साथ the मंच अद्यतन.
Windows XP and पहले हैं नहीं समर्थित.
Internet Explorer 9 is the पिछला संस्करण of अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर to be समर्थित on खिड़कियाँ Vista.
Both IA-32 और x64 builds are available.
Internet Explorer 9 supports several CSS 3 गुण, अंतःस्थापित आईसीसी v2 or v4 रंग प्रोफ़ाइल support via खिड़कियाँ रंग System, and has improved JavaScript performance.
It is the last of the पाँच प्रमुख वेब browsers to implement support लिये Scalable Vector Graphics ( SVG ).
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics rendering using Direct2D, hardware-accelerated text rendering using directwrite, hardware-accelerated वीडियो रेंडरिंग using मीडिया न्यास, इमेजिंग support provided by Windows Imaging Component, and high fidelity printing powered by the XML Paper Specification ( XPS ) print pipeline.
Internet Explorer 9 also supports the html5 वीडियो और ऑडियो टैग और the वेब Open Font Format.
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid और पीड़ा reliever पहला marketed by the Dr. Miles Medicine Company.
It was developed by मौरिस treener, सिर केमिस्ट at मील, in Elkhart, Indiana.
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for relief of minor aches, pains, सूजन, ज्वर, सिरदर्द, heartburn, खट्टा पेट, अपच, और hangovers, while neutralizing excess stomach acid.
It was शुभारम्भ in 1931.
A spin-off of alka-seltzer बना to relieve जुकाम और फ्लू, alka-seltzer Plus, was later introduced.
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin variant, alka-mints, थी introduced in 1994 और discontinued in 1997.
Alka-Seltzer is currently owned by Bayer schering फार्मा ag, जर्मनी.
The name `` Alka-Seltzer '' has been extended to incorporate an entire line of medications sold over the काउंटर और लिया by अर्थात् of rapidly dissolving टैबलेट कि रूप a कार्बोनेटेड समाधान in जल.
चेरी अलका seltzer प्लस टैब्लेट dissolving in water
Image प्रर्दशित the छह सबसे आम speleothems with labels.
enlarge to view labels.
A stalactite (, ; इससे the यूनानी stalasso, ( σταλάσσω ), `` to drip '', and meaning `` that which drips '' ) is a type of speleothem ( secondary mineral ) that hangs from the ceiling of limestone caves.
It is a प्रकार of dripstone.
The corresponding गठन on the मंजिल of the गुफा is ज्ञात as a stalagmite.
Degree abbreviations are used as an alternative way to specify an academic degree बजाय of स्पेलिंग आउट the शीर्षक in पूरा, ऐसे as in सन्दर्भ किताबे like Who 's Who and on business cards.
अनेक डिग्री have अधिक than one abbreviation.
In the UK, it is not generally the custom to punctuate abbreviations for डिग्री साथ पूरा stops ( e.g. `` बीएससी '' बल्कि than `` b.sc. ``.
Race is a classification system used to categorize humans into विशाल और पृथक populations or समूह by anatomical, सांस्कृतिक, जातीय, जेनेटिक, geographical, historical, linguistic, religious, or social affiliation.
First प्रयुक्त to denote नेशनल संबद्धों, the term began to be used to relate to physical traits in the 17th century.
In the early 20th century the term थी प्रायः प्रयुक्त, in a taxonomic भाव, to denote genetically differentiated human populations defined by phenotype.
While biologists sometimes use the concept of race to make distinctions among fuzzy sets of traits, others in the scientific community suggest that the idea of race often is used in a naive or simplistic way, i.e. कि among इंसानो, रेस रै no taxonomic significance : सब जीना इंसानो belong to the वही प्रजाति, होमो sapiens और subspecies, होमो sapiens sapiens.
सोशल conceptions और groupings of दौड़ vary over time, involving folk taxonomies
that define of individuals आधारित on आभास traits.
वैज्ञानिकों consider biological essentialism obsolete, and generally discourage racial explanations for collective differentiation in both physical and behavioral traits.
Since the second half of the 20th सदी the एसोसिएशन of रेस साथ the विचारधाराओं और theories कि grew out of the work of 19th-century anthropologists and physiologists has led to the use of the word race itself becoming problematic.
Although still used in general contexts, it is now often replaced by अन्य शब्द जिससे हैं कम अस्पष्ट और emotionally चार्ज, ऐसे as populations, people ( s ), ethnic groups or communities depending on context.
Lucy Stone ( August 13, 1818 – October 19, 1893 ) was a prominent American abolitionist और suffragist, और a गायन एडवोकेट और आयोजक promoting अधिकारों for women.
In 1847, Stone became the first स्त्री इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to earn a कॉलेज degree.
She spoke out for महिलाओं 's अधिकारों और विरूद्ध गुलामी at a समय जब women were discouraged and prevented from public speaking.
Stone थी the पहला अंकित अमरीकी स्त्री to retain उसके own last name after marriage.
Stone 's organizational activities for the कारण of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों yielded ठोस gains in the difficult political environment of the 19th century.
Stone helped initiate the first National Women 's अधिकारों सम्मेलन और वो समर्थित और sustained it annually साथ साथ a क्रमांक of other local, state and regional activist conventions.
Stone spoke in सामने of a क्रमांक of विधान लाशें to प्रचार laws giving more rights to women.
She assisted in establishing the Woman 's National Loyal League to help pass the Thirteenth Amendment and thereby abolish slavery, after जिससे वो helped रूप the largest समूह of like-minded महिलाओं 's अधिकारों reformers, the नीतियां मॉडरेट अमरीकी स्त्री suffrage संघ, जिससे worked लिये दशकों at the राज्य स्तर in एहसान of महिलाओं 's right to vote.
Stone wrote extensively about a wide range of women 's अधिकारों, प्रकाशन और distributing भाषणों by herself और अन्य, और सम्मेलन proceedings.
In the long-running and influential स्त्री 's जर्नल, a साप्ताहिक periodical कि वो स्थापित और प्रचारित, Stone aired both her own and differing views about women 's rights.
Called `` the orator '' और `` the morning स्टार of the स्त्री 's अधिकारों गति '', स्टोन वितरित a वाक जिससे sparked सुसान B. एंथोनी to take up the cause of women 's suffrage.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote that `` Lucy Stone was the पहला व्यक्ति by जिसको the दिल of the अमरीकी पब्लिक थी deeply stirred on the woman question. ''
Together, Anthony, Stanton, और स्टोन have महरूम पुकारा the 19th सदी `` triumvirate `` of women 's suffrage and feminism.
In finance, a बंध is an यंत्र of indebtedness of the बंध issuer to the holders.
It is a debt security, under which the issuer owes the holders a debt and, depending on the terms of the बंध, is obliged to अदा उन्हें ब्याज ( the कूपन ) or to repay the प्रिंसिपल at a बाद date, termed the maturity.
Interest is usually देय at फिक्स्ड intervals ( semiannual, सालाना, sometimes monthly ).
Very often the बंध is परक्राम्य, i.e. the स्वामित्व of the instrument can be transferred in the secondary market.
Thus a bond is a form of loan or IOU : the holder of the bond is the lender ( creditor ), the जारीकर्ता of the बंध is the borrower ( debtor ), और the coupon is the interest.
Bonds provide the borrower with external funds to finance long-term निवेश, or, in the मामला of सरकारी bonds, to वित्त current expenditure.
Certificates of deposit ( CDs ) or short term commercial paper are माना to be धन मार्केट यंत्र और नहीं bonds : the प्रमुख अंतर is in the लंबाई of the term of the instrument.
Bonds and stocks are both securities, but the major difference between the two is that ( capital ) stockholders have an इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी in the कम्पनी ( i.e. वे हैं स्वामी ), whereas bondholders have a creditor हिस्सेदारी in the company ( i.e. they are lenders ).
another अंतर is कि bonds प्रायः have a पारिभाषित पद, or परिपक्वता, after which the bond is redeemed, whereas stocks may be outstanding indefinitely.
An exception is an irredeemable बंध, ऐसे as consols, जिससे is a perpetuity, i.e. a bond with no maturity.
A स्केल मॉडल of the मीनार of London.
This model can be found अंदर the मीनार.
Scale model of जल संचालित टर्बाइन
L to R with 12 inch ruler at bottom : 1:64 Matchbox Chevrolet Tahoe, 1:43 Ford F-100, 1:25 revell monogram 1999 घाट mustang कोबरा, 1:18 bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
मॉडल जहाजों and castle
A scale model is a physical मॉडल, a प्रतिनिधित्व or नक़ल of an ऑब्जेक्ट कि is larger or छोटी than the वास्तविक आकार of the ऑब्जेक्ट, which seeks to maintain the relative proportions ( the scale factor ) of the physical size of the original object.
Very often the scale model is used as a मार्गदर्शिका to बनाना the ऑब्जेक्ट in पूरा आकार.
स्केल मॉडल हैं निर्मित or collected for many reasons.
The Zune HD was a पोर्टेबल मीडिया खिलाड़ी in the zune उत्पाद family released on September 15, 2009 by Microsoft.
It was a direct प्रतिस्पर्धी साथ the ठहराना ipod और iphone series of mobile devices.
It was initially released in 16 और 32 GB capacities.
A 64 GB version was released on अप्रैल 9, 2010.
It utilized a touchscreen interface for navigation and included wi-fi लिये तुल्यकालन, अभिगम to the zune मार्केटप्लेस और वेब ब्राउज़िंग.
The Zune hd utilized the nvidia tegra apx 2600 चिप, allowing it to खेल 720p वीडियो through the optional HDMI Zune dock on a high-definition television.
Otherwise, सामग्री होता be scaled bas to 480x272 पिक्सेल on the player 's OLED touchscreen.
Old sparky, the इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी प्रयुक्त at Sing Sing prison
Execution by electrocution, प्रायः performed using an इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी, is an निष्पादन विधि originating in the संयुक्त राज्य in जिससे the condemned व्यक्ति is strapped to a विशेषकर built wooden chair and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the body.
This execution method was created by employees of Thomas Edison during the War of Currents, and has been used only in the United States and, for a period of several decades, in the Philippines ( इसके पहला उपयोग वहीँ in 1924 अंतर्गत अमरीकी occupation, last in 1976 ).
Historically, once the condemned person was संलग्न to the कुर्सी, विभिन्न चक्र ( differing in वोल्टेज और अवधि ) of प्रत्यावर्ती current would be passed through the individual 's body, in order to cause fatal damage to the internal organs ( including the brain ).
The first jolt of electric current was designed to कारण तात्कालिक unconsciousness और दिमाग मौत ; the दूसरी एक was designed to cause fatal damage to the vital organs.
Death was frequently caused by विद्युत overstimulation of the heart.
हालांकि in the संयुक्त राज्य the इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी रै become a प्रतीक of the मौत penalty, its use is in decline due to the rise of lethal injection, which is widely believed to be a more humane method of execution.
Although some states still maintain electrocution as a विधि of निष्पादन, आज it is तभी कायम as a द्वितीयक विधि कि may be चुनी over lethal इंजेक्शन at the निवेदन of the prisoner.
As of 2010, electrocution is an वैकल्पिक रूप of execution in Alabama, Florida, South Carolina and Virginia.
They allow the prisoner to चुनें lethal इंजेक्शन as an वैकल्पिक विधि.
In the states of Kentucky and Tennessee, the electric chair has महरूम रिटायर्ड मगर लिये those जिनकी पूंजी अपराधों यहूद वचनबद्ध prior to legislated तिथियाँ in 1998 ( Kentucky : March 31, 1998 ; Tennessee : December 31, 1998 ) and who chose electrocution.
In both states, inmates who do not choose electrocution or inmates जो वचनबद्ध उनके अपराधों बाद the designated तिथि हैं मारे by lethal injection.
The इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी is an वैकल्पिक रूप of निष्पादन स्वीकृत लिये संभावित उपयोग in अरकंसास और ओक्लाहोमा if अन्य फ़ॉर्म of निष्पादन हैं मिला unconstitutional in the state at the time of execution.
it is the एकमात्र विधि of निष्पादन in वर्मांट, जहाँ treason is the only capital crime.
On February 8, 2008, the Nebraska Supreme Court determined that execution by electric chair थी a `` बेदर्द और असामान्य दंड '' अंतर्गत the राज्य 's संविधान.
This brought executions of this type to an end in Nebraska, the only remaining राज्य to retain electrocution as इसके एकमात्र विधि of निष्पादन लिये murder.
The Maryland हाउस of delegates is the निम्नतर हाउस of the General Assembly, the state legislature of the American State of Maryland, and is composed of 141 Delegates elected from 47 districts.
The House of Delegates Chamber is located in the मेरीलैंड राज्य हाउस ( राज्य कैपिटल ) on State Circle in Annapolis, which is the state capital.
The State House also houses the Maryland State Senate Chamber and the offices of the राज्यपाल और लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल of the राज्य of मेरीलैंड.
Each Delegate has offices in annapolis, in the आसपास कैस्पर R. टेलर, jr. हाउस दफ्तर Building.
The Liberation of Paris ( also known as the Battle for Paris ) took प्लेस दौरान संसार युद्ध ii इससे 19 अगस्त 1944 जबतक the आत्मसमर्पण of the occupying जर्मनी गैरीसन on 25 August.
The Liberation of पेरिस प्रारंभ साथ an uprising by the फ्रेंच प्रतिरोध against the German garrison.
On 24 August, the French Forces of the Interior ( Forces françaises de l'intérieur, ffi ) प्राप्त सुदृढीकरण इससे the फ़्री फ्रेंच फौज of मुक्ति and from the U.S. Third Army under General Patton.
The capital region of France had been governed by Nazi Germany since the signing of the Second Compiègne Armistice in June 1940, when the German Army occupied northern और westernmost फ़्रांस, और जब the कठपुतली शासन of vichy फ़्रांस थी स्थापित in the कस्बा of vichy in सेंट्रल France.
This battle marked the liberation of Paris और the निर्वासन of the vichy सरकारी to sigmaringen in Germany.
However, there was still much heavy fighting to be done before France was liberated, including the campaign in southern France during August-September ( in provence और extending into the southwestern प्रदेश of the vosges kyu ), साथ the german-held seaports of पश्चिमी फ़्रांस ( ऐसे as at brest और dunkirk ), in Alsace and Lorraine in eastern France, and in northeastern France, such as along the Rhine and Moder Rivers.
The German Army और ss लड़ा doggedly in ये areas for the remainder of 1944 and into 1945.
`` Feelin ' Alright ? '' also known as `` Feeling Alright '' is a सोंग लिखा by डेव मेसन of the English rock band Traffic from their eponymous 1968 album, Traffic.
The song was also a hit single for several performers : Joe Cocker ( 1969, # 69, recharted in 1972, us # 33 ), mongo santamaría ( 1969, # 95 ) और ग्रैंड दुर्गंध रेलरोड ( 1971, US # 54 ).
It has also been recorded by Three Dog रात्रि ( 1969 ), the 5th आयाम ( 1970 ), लू राल्स, फ्रेडी किंग, पॉल weller, lulu, chairmen of the फलक ( 1970 ), विरल धरती, the इलेक्ट्रिक Concept Orchestra, Mother 's Finest ( 1973 ), The Ohio Players ( 1971 ), Diana Ross with the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ), Maceo Parker, Gladys Knight & the Pips, Widespread Panic and The Black Crowes.
A Steel Drum version by Trinidad Oil Company was reissued on the dancefloor जैज़ संकलन ब्लू रस 2.
It was also featured in the 2000 फिल्मी duets, सुंग by huey Lewis.
Both the original and the Joe Cocker कवर यहूद प्रदर्शित in the फिल्म उड़ान, अभिनीत डेंज़ल Washington.
Devon Werkheiser ( born March 8,1991 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता, आवाज़ कर्ता, सिंगर, songwriter और संगीतकार, बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके अभिनीत भूमिका as ned bigby on the निकलोडियन sitcom Ned 's Declassified School Survival Guide and for his role in the 2007 TV Movie Shredderman Rules, as the lead character Nolan Byrd.
Werkheiser also played Peter Parkes in the चौथी और फाइनल ऋतु of the ABC Family show Greek.
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य record based on images
Sample view of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड
An electronic health रिकार्ड ( ehr ) is an evolving अवधारणा पारिभाषित as a systematic collection of electronic health information about individual patients or populations.
It is a record in digital स्वरूप कि is theoretically सक्षम of होने shared across different health care settings.
In some cases this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide सूचना प्रणालियों और अन्य information networks or exchanges.
EHRs may include a range of data, including demographics, medical इतिहास, दवा और allergies, immunization औकात, प्रयोगशाला परीक्षण परिणाम, radiology images, vital signs, personal stats like age and weight, and billing information.
Loan origination is the process by which a borrower applies लिये a नई ऋण, और a lender प्रक्रियाओं कि अनुप्रयोग.
Origination generally includes all the steps from taking a loan अनुप्रयोग up to disbursal of निधि ( or घटती the application ).
Loan servicing covers everything बाद disbursing the निधि जबतक the ऋण is fully paid off.
Loan origination is a specialized संस्करण of नई खाता खोलने लिये financial services organizations.
Certain people and संगठन specialize in ऋण origination.
बंधक brokers और अन्य बंधक originator companies serve as a prominent example.
There हैं अनेक अलग types of loans.
For more information on loan types, see the ऋण और उपभोक्ता lending articles.
Steps involved in originating a ऋण vary by ऋण प्रकार, विभिन्न kinds of loan risk, regulator, lender policy, and other factors.
Top left : The Tennessee घाटी प्राधिकार, भाग of the नई सौदे, होने signed into law in 1933.
Top right : Franklin Delano रूज़वेल्ट, जो थी जिम्मेदार लिये पहलों and programs collectively known as the New Deal.
नीचे : a पब्लिक भित्ति इससे एक of the artists employed by the New Deal.
The नई सौदे थी a श्रेणी of आर्थिक कार्यक्रम enacted in the United States between 1933 and 1936.
They involved presidential executive orders or laws passed by Congress दौरान the पहला पद of अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. Roosevelt.
The कार्यक्रम यहूद in जवाब to the ग्रेट अवसाद, और केन्द्रित on what historians call the `` 3 Rs '' : Relief, Recovery, and Reform.
That is Relief for the unemployed and poor ; रिकवरी of the अर्थव्यवस्था to सामान्य स्तर ; और सुधार of the वित्तीय प्रणाली to prevent a repeat depression.
The New Deal produced a political realignment, making the Democratic Party the majority ( as well as the party that held the White House for seven out of nine Presidential terms इससे 1933 to 1969 ), साथ इसके आधार in उदार विचार, the श्वेत दक्षिण, परंपरागत डेमोक्रेट, big city machines, and the newly empowered labor unions and ethnic minorities.
The republicans यहूद विभाजित, साथ conservatives opposing the संपूर्ण नई सौदे as an दुश्मन of कारोबार and growth, and liberals accepting some of it and promising to make it more efficient.
The realignment crystallized into the नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि वर्चस्व सबसे अध्यक्षीय चुनावों into the 1960s, while the opposition Conservative Coalition largely controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963.
By 1936 the पद `` उदार '' typically थी प्रयुक्त लिये समर्थक of the New Deal, and `` conservative `` for its opponents.
From 1934 to 1938, Roosevelt was assisted in his endeavours by a “pro-spender” बहुमत in कॉंग्रेस ( drawn इससे two-party, प्रतिस्पर्धी, non-machine, प्रगतिशील, and Left party districts ).
As noted by Alexander Hicks, “Roosevelt, backed by rare, non-Southern Democrat majorities — 270 non-southern डेमोक्रेट प्रतिनिधि और 71 non-southern डेमोक्रेट सीनेटरों — spelled दूसरी नई सौदे reform.”
Many historians distinguish between a `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) and a `` दूसरी नई सौदे '' ( 1935–38 ), साथ the दूसरी एक अधिक liberal and more controversial.
The `` First New सौदे '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt साथ विविध समूह, इससे बैंकिंग और railroads to industry and farming, all of which demanded help for economic survival.
The Federal Emergency Relief Administration, for instance, provided $ 500 million लिये राहत परिचालन by राज्य और शहरों, जबकि the short-lived cwa ( सिविल works प्रशासन ) दिया बस्तियों धन to operate make-work projects in 1933-34.
The `` Second New Deal `` in 1935–38 included the वेगनर अधिनियम to प्रचार मजदूर संघ, the works प्रगति प्रशासन ( wpa ) राहत कार्यक्रम ( जिससे बना the संघीय सरकारी by far the largest single employer in the nation ), the Social Security Act, and new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers.
The final major items of New Deal legislation were the creation of the United States आवास प्राधिकार और फार्म सुरक्षा प्रशासन, दोनो in 1937, और the मेला मजदूर मानकों अधिनियम of 1938, जिससे नियत अधिकतम घंटों और न्यूनतम मजदूरी for most categories of workers.
The economic downturn of 1937–38, and the bitter split between the afl और cio मजदूर संघ led to प्रमुख रिपब्लिकन gains in Congress in 1938.
Conservative Republicans and डेमोक्रेट in कॉंग्रेस joined in the informal Conservative Coalition.
By 1942–43 they shut down relief programs ऐसे as the wpa और ccc और अवरोधित major liberal proposals.
रूज़वेल्ट खुद turned उसके ध्यान to the युद्ध प्रयत्न, and won reelection in 1940 and 1944.
The Supreme Court declared the National Recovery Administration ( NRA ) और the पहला संस्करण of the agricultural समायोजन अधिनियम ( aaa ) असंवैधानिक, however the AAA was rewritten and then upheld.
As the first Republican president elected after FDR, Dwight D. आइज़नहावर ( 1953–61 ) बाएँ the नई सौदे largely intact, even expanding it in some areas.
In the 1960s, Lyndon B. Johnson 's Great Society used the New Deal as inspiration for a नाटकीय विस्तार of उदार कार्यक्रम, जिससे रिपब्लिकन रिचर्ड M. निक्सन generally retained.
After 1974, however, the कॉल लिये deregulation of the economy gained bipartisan support.
The New Deal regulation of banking ( glass–steagall अधिनियम ) थी निलंबित in the 1990s.
Many New Deal programs remain active, साथ कुछ स्टिल ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the असली names, सहित the संघीय जमा बीमे निगम ( FDIC ), the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation ( FCIC ), the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ), and the Tennessee Valley Authority ( TVA ).
The largest कार्यक्रम स्टिल in अस्तित्व आज हैं the सोशल सुरक्षा प्रणाली and the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ).
A woman ( ), pl : महिलाओं ( ) is a मादा इंसान.
The term स्त्री is प्रायः सुरक्षित लिये an वयस्क, साथ the term girl being the usual term for a female child or adolescent.
However, the term woman is भी sometimes प्रयुक्त to पहचानो a मादा इंसान, regardless of आयु, as in वाक्यांश such as `` Women 's rights ``.
Women are typically capable of giving जनम, हालांकि पुरानी महिलाओं जो have गए through रजोनिवृत्ति और some intersex women can not.
`` I Do n't Want to Miss a Thing '' is a song performed by अमरीकी चट्टान बैंड एरोस्मिथ लिये the 1998 फिल्मी armageddon.
Written by Diane Warren, the सोंग debuted at क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 ( the पहला # 1 for the band after 28 years together ).
the सोंग ठहरे at क्रमांक एक लिये four weeks from September 5 to September 26, 1998.
The song भी ठहरे at क्रमांक 1 लिये अनेक weeks in several other countries.
In the UK, the song peaked at number four, बनने एरोस्मिथ 's उच्चतम charting सोंग in the uk, जहाँ it थी the 17th best-selling सिंगल of 1998, and has sold over a million copies.
Although not used by the majority of the world 's countries, daylight छायांकन समय is आम in the पश्चिमी world.
Daylight saving time ( DST ) —also गर्मियाँ समय in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी — is the अभ्यास of advancing घड़ियाँ दौरान the lighter months so that evenings have more daylight and mornings have less.
Typically clocks are adjusted forward एक घंटा निकट the प्रारंभ of वसन्त और हैं समायोजित पिछड़ा in autumn.
The modern idea of daylight saving was first proposed in 1895 by जार्ज vernon हडसन और it थी पहला implemented दौरान the पहला संसार War.
Many countries have used it at विभिन्न टाइम्स चूंकि then.
Much of the संयुक्त राज्य प्रयुक्त dst in the 1950s और 1960s, और dst उपयोग विस्तारित following the 1970s energy crisis and has been widely used in North America and Europe since then.
The अभ्यास रै महरूम दोनो praised and criticized.
Adding daylight to evenings benefits retailing, sports, and other क्रियाएँ कि exploit धूप बाद working घंटों, लकिन can कारण समस्याएं लिये evening entertainment and other occupations tied to the sun.
Although an early लक्ष्य of dst थी to reduce संध्या उपयोग of incandescent lighting ( formerly a प्राथमिक उपयोग of विद्युत ), आधुनिक हीटिंग और cooling usage patterns differ greatly, and research about how DST currently affects energy use is limited or contradictory.
DST क्लॉक शिफ्ट उपस्थित अन्य challenges.
They complicate timekeeping, और can disrupt बैठक, सफर, बिलिंग, रिकार्ड keeping, medical devices, heavy equipment, and sleep patterns.
Software can प्रायः समायोजन कंप्यूटर घड़ियाँ automatically, लकिन इस can be सीमित और error-prone, particularly when DST dates are changed.
Floorplan of the château de montargis
Montargis is a कम्यून in the loiret विभाग in north-central France on the Loing river.
The town is located about south of Paris और ईस्ट of orléans in the Gâtinais.
Montargis is the दूसरी largest नगर in the Loiret, after Orléans.
It is near a विशाल वन, और contains light industry and farming, including saffron.
Due to its numerous canals और पुलों, montargis sometimes बिल्स itself as the `` Venice of the Gâtinais. ''
Though quite modern, it retains a मध्यकालीन आकर्षण in इसके शहर area.
In computer storage, a logical ईकाई क्रमांक, or lun, is a क्रमांक प्रयुक्त to पहचानो a logical unit, which is a device addressed by the SCSI protocol or protocols which encapsulate SCSI, such as Fibre Channel or iSCSI.
A LUN may be used with any यंत्र जिससे supports read/write परिचालन, ऐसे as a टेप ड्राइव, लकिन is सबसे often used to refer to a logical disk as created on a SAN.
Though not technically correct, the पद `` lun '' is प्रायः भी प्रयुक्त to refer to the logical disk itself.
The इन्जील according to चिह्नित (,, to euangelion kata markon ), commonly shortened to the Gospel of Mark or simply Mark, is the second book of the New Testament.
This canonical account of the life of Jesus of Nazareth is एक of the तीन synoptic gospels.
It was विचार to be an निचोड़, जिससे accounts for its place as the second gospel in the Bible.
however, सबसे समकालीन विद्वानों अभी लिहाज़ it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ).
That Mark was used as a source for the other synoptic gospels Gospel of मैथ्यू और इन्जील of ल्यूक is widely आयोजित by अनेक, हालांकि नहीं all, New Testament scholars.
The Gospel of Mark narrates the Ministry of यीशु इससे उसके बपतिस्मा by जॉन the बैपटिस्ट to his death and resurrection.
It focuses विशेषकर on the पिछला सप्ताह of उसके जीवन ( अध्याय 11–16 ) in Jerusalem.
Its swift narrative portrays यीशु as a वीर man of कार्रवाई, an exorcist, healer and miracle worker.
An important theme of Mark is the मुक्तिदाता रहस्य.
Jesus silences the demoniacs he heals, कोशिशें unsuccessfully to रखना उसके मुक्तिदाता पहचान रहस्य, और conceals his message with parables.
Meanwhile, the disciples fail to understand both the implication of the चमत्कार of यीशु और the अर्थ of the बाते he predicts परिचय उसके arrest, death and resurrection.
Most scholars believe that the original text of the gospel ends at Mark 16:8 with the discovery of Jesus ' empty tomb and that the following खाता of उसके क़यामत appearances is a later addition.
According to परंपरा और कुछ जल्दी गिरिजाघर लेखक, the author is Mark the Evangelist, the companion of the apostle Peter.
The gospel, however, appears to rely on अनेक underlying स्त्रोत, varying in रूप और in धर्मशास्त्र, जिससे tells against the tradition that the gospel was based on Peter 's preaching.
The text is a compilation which may include eye-witness खाते as खूब as ज्ञात अपोस्टोलिक preachings, और pre-existing लिखा records that do not exist today but can be confirmed from 2nd-century commentators.
Some of the stories in the इन्जील may have महरूम transmitted orally पहले होने लिखा down.
Various elements within the gospel suggest that the author wrote in सीरियाई or फिलिस्तीन for a non-Jewish Christian community.
The Lord of the Rings is an epic high fantasy अनोखा लिखा by अंग्रेज़ी भाषाशास्त्री और विश्वविद्यालयों of Oxford professor J. R. R. Tolkien.
The story began as a sequel to Tolkien 's 1937 children 's fantasy novel The Hobbit, but आखिरकार विकसित into a much larger work.
It was लिखा in चरण between 1937 और 1949, much of it during World War II.
It is the second best-selling अनोखा कभी लिखा, साथ over 150 लाख नक़ल sold.
The title of the novel refers to the स्टोरी 's प्रमुख विपक्षी, the अंधेरा रब sauron, जो था in an पहले आयु निर्मित the एक रिंग to rule the other Rings of Power as the ultimate weapon in his campaign to conquer and rule all of Middle-earth.
From quiet beginnings in the Shire, a Hobbit land not unlike the English countryside, the story ranges across north-west Middle-earth, following the course of the War of the Ring through the eyes of its characters, notably the hobbits frodo baggins, samwise `` sam '' gamgee, meriadoc `` मैरी '' brandybuck और peregrin `` pippin '' took, लकिन भी the hobbits ' मुख्य allies and travelling companions : Aragorn, a Human Ranger ; Boromir, a man from Gondor ; Gimli, a Dwarf warrior ; Legolas, an Elven prince ; and Gandalf, a Wizard.
The work was initially intended by tolkien to be एक आवाज़ of a two-volume नियत, with the other being The Silmarillion, but this idea was dismissed by his publisher.
It was decided for economic reasons to प्रकाशित the रब of the बजती as तीन आयतन over the कोर्स of a साल इससे 29 जुलाई 1954 to 20 अक्तूबर 1955, यूँ बनाना the now familiar Lord of the Rings trilogy.
The three volumes were entitled The Fellowship of the Ring, the दो मीनारें, और the वापसी of the किंग.
Structurally, the novel is divided internally into six books, two per volume, with several appendices of पृष्ठभूमि सामग्री शामिल at the समाप्त of the तीसरा आवाज़.
The Lord of the Rings has since been reprinted numerous टाइम्स और अनूदित into many languages.
Tolkien 's work रै महरूम the विषय of extensive विश्लेषण of its themes and origins.
Although a major work in itself, the story was only the last movement of a larger epic tolkien था worked on चूंकि 1917, in a प्रक्रम he वर्णित as mythopoeia.
Influences on this पहले कार्य, और on the स्टोरी of the रब of the बजती, शामिल philology, mythology, धर्म और the लेखक 's distaste for the effects of industrialization, as well as earlier fantasy works and Tolkien 's experiences in World War I.
The Lord of the Rings in its turn is considered to have था a ग्रेट प्रभाव on आधुनिक काल्पनिक ; the प्रभाव of tolkien 's works is ऐसे कि the उपयोग of the शब्द `` tolkienian '' और `` tolkienesque '' have been recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary.
The enduring popularity of The Lord of the Rings has led to numerous सन्दर्भ in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति, the founding of अनेक समाजों by प्रशंसक of tolkien 's works, और the प्रकाशन of अनेक books about Tolkien and his works.
The Lord of the Rings has inspired, and continues to inspire, कलाकृति, म्यूज़िक, films और टेलीविज़न, वीडियो खेल, और subsequent literature.
award-winning adaptations of the रब of the बजती have been made for radio, theatre, and film.
The following is an एपीसोड सूची लिये the Nickelodeon sitcom Drake & Josh.
The series debuted on जनवरी 11, 2004.
A TV film मैरी क्रिसमस, ड्रेक & जोश थी made apart from the regular series on December 5, 2008.
वहीँ हैं a कुल of 60 एपीसोड यहूद उत्पादित spanning four seasons.
Drake Bell, जोश पेक, और मिरांडा cosgrove यहूद the only actors to appear in all 60 episodes.
The San Francisco 49ers conduct training camp at the टोली 's मुख्यालय और अभ्यास सुविधा in सांता Clara, California in August 2010.
The offense is wearing red jerseys साथ the एक्सेप्शन of क्वार्टरबैक एलेक्स स्मिथ, जो is in a ब्लैक जर्सी ; the defense in white.
In the National Football League, प्रशिक्षण शिविर refers to the समय पहले the season commences.
During this time, teams will sometimes congregate at an बाहर स्थान, usually a university, to conduct training camp for at least the first few weeks.
This is समान to बेसबॉल 's spring training.
प्रशिक्षण शिविर is प्रयुक्त in अनेक different ways.
New players and कोच उपयोग it to acclimate themselves to new teammates and systems.
For younger players, it serves as a period of evaluation ; लिये दिग्गजों, it is समय to गोलाकार वापस into form.
प्रशिक्षण शिविर is विभाजित into several different components.
The पहला is scrimmages.
These are pseudo-games जहाँ टीमों चलाएं nearly पूरा खेल ' लायक of plays.
Sometimes, two अभ्यास सत्र हैं आयोजित on the same day.
This concept is referred to as two-a-days.
Other parts of training camp include drills, बैठक साथ कोच और अन्य खिलाड़ी at एक 's स्थिति, वज़न प्रशिक्षण, and pre-season games.
The latter half of training शिविर लीड सीधे into the प्रदर्शनी season.
With NFL प्रशिक्षण शिविरों starting in late-july, the biggest concern has been dehydration.
In 2001, Minnesota Vikings player Korey stringer died of a चिकित्सा कंडीशन आधारित इससे dehydration and heatstroke.
The death of Stringer prompted the NFL to बदलें उनके प्रशिक्षण policies.
At each practice, every team जरूर have the टोली डॉक्टर और प्रशिक्षकों on the फ़ील्ड ; additionally, an ambulance must be present during practices.
With NFL training camps beginning in late जुलाई, कठोर मौसम can affect अभ्यास और प्रदर्शनी games.
In 2002, a क्लीवलैंड भूरा प्रदर्शनी खेल ended due to बिजली निकट क्लीवलैंड Browns Stadium, and severe storms have been known to disrupt training camps.
Fans are often able to visit their favorite team 's training camp to कैच an जल्दी dekh at the खिलाड़ी ; प्रवेश to practices is प्रायः फ़्री or substantially कम महंगी than a खेल टिकट, बनाना training camp trips a popular option for fans who can not attend many games due to financial or other reasons.
NFL teams often बेचें कलाकृतियां और concessions at शिविर साइट साथ साथ offering क्रियाएँ and events to make training camp a more fan-friendly experience.
In computing, a file system ( or filesystem ) is a प्रकार of आंकड़ा स्टोर जिससे can be used to store, retrieve and update a set of files.
The term could refer to the अमूर्त आंकड़ा structures प्रयुक्त to define फाइलें, or to the actual software or firmware components that implement the abstract ideas.
Some file systems are used on local data storage devices ; अन्य provide संचिका अभिगम via a संजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( e.g. NFS, SMB, or 9P clients ).
Some file systems are `` virtual '', in that the `` files '' supplied हैं computed on निवेदन ( e.g. procfs ) or हैं merely a मानचित्रण into a different file system used as a backing store.
The संचिका प्रणाली manages अभिगम to दोनो the सामग्री of files and the metadata about those files.
It is responsible for arranging storage स्पेस ; विश्वसनीयता, दक्षता, और ट्यूनिंग साथ लिहाज़ to the शारीरिक भंडार medium are important design considerations.
William Howard Taft ( September 15, 1857 – कूच 8, 1930 ) थी the 27th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1909–1913 ) and later the tenth Chief Justice of the United States ( 1921–1930 ).
He is the only person to have served in दोनो of ये कार्यालयों.
Before बनने अध्यक्ष, taft, a रिपब्लिकन, थी चयनित to serve on the Superior Court of Cincinnati in 1887.
In 1890, Taft was appointed Solicitor General of the संयुक्त राज्य और in 1891 a न्यायधीश on the संयुक्त राज्य अदालत of appeals लिये the Sixth Circuit.
In 1900, अध्यक्ष विलियम mckinley नियुक्त taft Governor-General of the Philippines.
In 1904, अध्यक्ष थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट नियुक्त taft सचिव of युद्ध in an प्रयत्न to दूल्हे Taft, then his close political ally, into his handpicked presidential successor.
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving, assuming on कुछ अवसरों the भूमिका of एक्टिंग सचिव of राज्य, जबकि घटती दोहराया offers इससे रूज़वेल्ट to serve on the Supreme Court.
Riding a wave of popular support for fellow रिपब्लिकन रूज़वेल्ट, taft जीती an आसान विजय in उसके 1908 bid for the presidency.
In his only term, Taft 's domestic agenda emphasized trust-busting, civil service सुधार, strengthening the अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स आयोग, improving the performance of the postal service, and passage of the Sixteenth Amendment.
Abroad, taft sought to further the आर्थिक विकास of राष्ट्र in लैटिन अमेरिका और एशिया through `` डालर Diplomacy ``, and showed decisiveness and restraint in response to revolution in Mexico.
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious to the political ramifications of his decisions, often alienated his own key constituencies, और थी overwhelmingly पराजित in उसके बोली लिये a दूसरी पद in the अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1912.
In surveys of presidential scholars, Taft is usually क्रमित निकट the मध्य of सूचियाँ of सब अमरीकी Presidents.
After leaving office, Taft spent his time in academia, मध्यस्थता, और the ढूंढें लिये संसार सलाम through उसके self-founded लीग to Enforce Peace.
In 1921, after the पहला संसार युद्ध, अध्यक्ष वारेन G. हार्डिंग नियुक्त taft मुख्य इंसाफ of the United States.
Taft परोसा in इस क्षमता जबतक shortly पहले his death in 1930.
The Ten Commandments is a 1956 epic film produced and directed by Cecil B. DeMille that dramatized the biblical story of the Exodus, in which the hebrew-born मूसा, an अपनाया मिश्र प्रिंस, becomes the deliverer of the यहूदी स्लेव.
It starred Charlton Heston in the lead role, Yul Brynner as his adoptive bhai, pharaoh rameses ii, ऐनी बैक्सटर as nefretiri, एडवर्ड G. रॉबिन्सन as dathan, yvonne de कार्लो as sephora, Debra Paget as Lilia, and John Derek as Joshua.
The supporting cast includes Sir Cedric Hardwicke as Pharaoh Seti I, नीना foch as bithiah, मार्था स्कॉट as yoshebel, जूडिथ एंडरसन as memnet, विंसेंट दाम as baka, और जॉन carradine as Aaron.
The film was released by सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें in vistavision on अक्तूबर 5, 1956.
The Ten Commandments, जिससे demille narrated, थी the पिछला film that he directed.
He was set to direct the 1958 remake of उसके 1938 फिल्मी the buccaneer, लकिन उसके फाइनल बीमारी मजबूर उसे to relinquish the directing chores to his son-in-law, actor Anthony Quinn.
DeMille had also planned to film the life of Lord Baden Powell, the founder of the स्काउट गति, साथ दाउद niven ; इस प्रोजेक्ट थी never realized.
The Ten आयतें is a आंशिक remake of DeMille 's 1923 silent film.
Some of the cast and crew of the 1956 version worked on the असली.
It has since महरूम remade as a टेलीविज़न miniseries broadcast in April 2006.
The Ten Commandments is one of the सबसे financially कामयाब films कभी made, grossing over $ 65 million at the U.S. box office.
Adjusting for महंगाई, इस makes it the छठे highest-grossing फिल्मी domestically, साथ an समायोजित total of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012.
The box दफ्तर जालस्थल `` the संख्याएँ '' सूचियाँ the घरेलू gross at $ 80 million.
In 1999, The Ten Commandments was selected for संरक्षण in the संयुक्त राज्य नेशनल फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant ''.
In June 2008, the American Film Institute नाज़िल इसके `` टेन शीर्ष टेन `` —the बेहतरीन टेन films in टेन अमरीकी फिल्मी genres—after polling over 1,500 people from the creative community.
The Ten आयतें थी सूचीबद्ध as the दसवाँ बेहतरीन फिल्मी in the epic genre.
The film received seven Academy Award nominations including Best चित्र, और जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन विज़ुअल प्रभाव.
चार्ल्टन हेस्टन थी मनोनीत लिये a सुनहरी ग्लोब Award for Best Motion Picture Actor in the drama category.
Yul Brynner won the National Board of Review Award लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये उसके भूमिका as rameses, साथ साथ उसके अन्य भूमिकाएँ in the किंग and I and Anastasia.
louisville (, or ) is a प्रमुख नगर और the largest नगर in the U.S. state of Kentucky and the county seat of Jefferson County.
Since 2003, the city 's borders have महरूम साथ those of the काउंटी because of a city-county merger.
The city 's total consolidated population at the 2010 census was 741,096 ( Louisville 's balance total, 602,011, excludes semi-autonomous कस्बों और is the जनसांख्यिकी सूचीबद्ध in सबसे स्त्रोत और नेशनल rankings ).
As of 2010, the Louisville metropolitan area ( एमएसए ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,307,647 रैंकिंग 42nd nationally.
The metro area includes Louisville-Jefferson County and 12 surrounding काउंटी, आठ in केंटकी और चार in दक्षिणी इंडियाना ( see Geography below ).
The Louisville Combined Statistical Area, having a population of 1,451,564, शामिल the एमएसए, hardin काउंटी और larue काउंटी in केंटकी, और स्कॉट County, Indiana.
An important internal shipping port in the 19th सदी, louisville आज is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the स्थान of the केंटकी डर्बी, the पहला of three annual thoroughbred horse races making up the Triple Crown.
A typical experimental सेटअप लिये an aldol प्रतिक्रिया.
Both flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone कूलिंग नहाना ( −78 °c ) the तापमान of which is being monitored by a thermocouple ( the wire on the left ).
A कूलिंग नहाना, in प्रयोगशाला रसायन ( प्रायः लकिन नहीं सदा सशुल्क रसायन ) अभ्यास, is a liquid mixture which is used to maintain low temperatures, typically between 13 °C and −196 °C.
These low temperatures are used to collect liquids after distillation, to remove solvents using a रोटरी evaporator, or to perform a रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया below room temperature ( see : kinetic control ).
Cooling baths are generally one of two types : ( a ) a ठंडा द्रव ( विशेषकर द्रव नाइट्रोजन, जल, or भी एयर ) — लकिन सबसे commonly the पद refers to ( b ) a मिश्रण of 3 components : ( 1 ) a कूलिंग एजेंट ( ऐसे as शुष्क बर्फ or जल बर्फ ) ; ( b ) a द्रव 'कैरीr ' ( such as liquid water, ethylene glycol, acetone, etc. ), which transfers heat between the bath and the vessel ; ; and ( c ) an additive to depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid system.
( A familiar example of this is the use of an ice/rock-salt मिश्रण to फ्रीज बर्फ मलाई.
The phase-change of ice into liquid water requires energy, 'pulling ' ऊष्मा इससे the प्रणाली.
adding नमक lowers the अस्थायी at जिससे इस happens, meaning more energy has to be absorbed from the environment in order to melt the ice.
This effectively makes the ice 'colder ' — it जरूर 'pull ' अधिक ऊष्मा इससे इसके पर्यावरण to become liquid. )
Eating disorders are conditions defined by असामान्य खाने आदतें कि may involve either अपर्याप्त or excessive खाना intake to the detriment of an individual 's physical and mental health.
Bulimia nervosa and anorexia nervosa are the most आम विशिष्ट फ़ॉर्म in the संयुक्त Kingdom.
Other प्रकार of खाने विकार शामिल binge खाने disorder and eating disorder not otherwise specified.
Bulimia nervosa is a विकार characterized by binge खाने and purging.
Purging can include self-induce vomiting, over-exercising, and the उपयोग of diuretics, enemas, और laxatives.
Anorexia nervosa is characterized by चरम खाना प्रतिबंध to the पाइंट of self-starvation and excessive weight loss.
Though primarily thought of as affecting महिलाओं ( an अनुमानित 5–10 लाख होने प्रभावित in the u.K. ), खाने विकार affect males as well.
An estimated 10 – 15 % of लोगों साथ खाने विकार हैं males ( Gorgan, 1999 ).
( an estimated 1 लाख u.K. males होने प्रभावित ).
Although eating disorders are increasing all over the world among both men and women, there is evidence to suggest that it is महिलाओं in the पश्चिमी संसार जो हैं at the उच्चतम रिस्क of विकासशील उन्हें और the उपाधि of westernization increases the risk.
Nearly half of all अमेरिकी personally जान किसी साथ an eating disorder.
The skill to comprehend the सेंट्रल प्रक्रियाओं of भूख रै increased tremendously चूंकि लेप्टिन थी खोजा, और the कौशल to observe the functions of the brain as well.
Interactions between motivational, homeostatic and self-regulatory control processes are involved in खाने आचरण, जिससे is a कुंजी घटक in खाने विकार.
The precise cause of eating disorders is not entirely understood, लकिन वहीँ is प्रमाण कि it may be linked to अन्य चिकित्सा शर्तें और परिस्थितियों.
Cultural idealization of thinness and youthfulness have contributed to खाने विकार affecting diverse populations.
One study showed that girls with ADHD have a वृहद मौका of getting an खाने विकार than those not affected by ADHD.
Another study suggested that women with PTSD, especially due to sexually related आघात, हैं अधिक संभावित to develop एनोरेक्सिया नर्वोज़ा.
One पढ़ाई दिखाया कि फोस्टर लड़कियों हैं more likely to develop bulimia nervosa.
Some think that पीर दबाव और idealized body-types देखी in the media are also a significant factor.
Some research show that for certain people there are genetic reasons why they may be prone to विकासशील an खाने disorder.
Recent studies have found evidence a सहसंबंध between मरीजों साथ bulimia nervosa and substance use disorders.
In addition, anxiety विकार और व्यक्तित्व विकार हैं आम आवृत्ति with clients of eating disorders.
While proper treatment can be highly effective for many suffering from specific types of eating disorders, the consequences of eating disorders can be severe, including death ( whether from सीधा चिकित्सा प्रभाव of अशांत खाने आदतें or इससे comorbid शर्तें ऐसे as suicidal सोच ).
Slavery in the संयुक्त राज्य existed इससे the जल्दी सालो of the औपनिवेशिक काल ; it थी firmly स्थापित by the time the United States sought independence from Great Britain in 1776.
however, by 1804, सब राज्य उत्तर of the मेसन और डिक्सन लकीर था either abolished गुलामी outright or passed laws for the gradual abolition of slavery.
in 1787 कॉंग्रेस निषिद्ध slavery in the Northwest Territory.
But slavery gained new life in the South with the cotton उद्योग बाद 1800, और विस्तारित into the Southwest.
The स्वदेश थी polarized into स्लेव और फ़्री राज्य साथ the mason-dixon लकीर, जिससे separated Pennsylvania and Maryland.
The United States and Great Britain both prohibited the international slave trade in 1808, but the domestic trade, with sales to the Deep South, विस्तारित dramatically, और अनेक captives यहूद shipped by the coastwise स्लेव व्यापार.
पहले the 1840s, the दक्षिण थी vigorously defending slavery and its expansion into the territories.
In the North some abolitionists denounced it as गुनाहगार, और numerous anti-slavery शक्तियां अस्वीकृत it as हानिकारक to the rights of free men.
After failed compromises and Abraham Lincoln 's election, in 1861 ग्यारह स्लेव राज्य broke दूर to रूप the Confederate States of America, leading to the American Civil War.
The federal सरकारी in 1862 बना abolition of slavery a war goal.
In January 1863 President Lincoln freed slaves in the confederacy through the emancipation Proclamation.
After the war, the Thirteenth Amendment, effective December 1865, abolished slavery throughout the संपूर्ण संयुक्त राज्य, सहित the किनारा राज्य और the Indian territories.
From the 16th to the 19th सदियां, an अनुमानित 12 लाख africans were shipped as slaves to the Americas.
See गुलामी in the Americas.
The great majority went to the sugar बागानों of the वेस्ट इंडीज or ब्राज़ील, where mortality was high.
परिचय 645,000 यहूद brought to what is now the United States.
By the 1860 United States Census, the स्लेव जनसांख्यिकी in the American South had grown to four million.
Of सब 1,515,605 परिवारों in the 15 स्लेव राज्य, nearly 400,000 held slaves ( roughly one in four ), amounting to 8 % of all American families.
While some slaves worked as house servants and urban artisans, the great majority worked on plantations or विशाल खेतो, cultivating lucrative नकदी फसलों, ऐसे as राइस, तम्बाकू, sugar and, after 1800, chiefly cotton.
By 1860 most slaves were held in the Deep South, जहाँ वे परोसा in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in cotton.
In small operations, they worked साथ उनके स्वामी.
In large बागानों they were directed by white paid overseers.
Under the system that became chattel slavery ( ownership of a human being, and of his/her descendants ), a racial element was fundamental : slaves यहूद अश्वेतों of अफ़्रीकी descent और स्वामित्व, लगभग universally, by whites of यूरोपीय descent.
In the 17th century, Virginia, followed by other southern colonies, enacted विधि कि children of स्लेव माताओं यहूद born into slavery.
Slaves could gain freedom only by running away ( जिससे थी मुश्किल और illegal to do ), or by manumission by स्वामी, जिससे थी regulated by states, and became increasingly difficult or prohibited.
In the earliest era of chattel slavery, the colonies also organized work by a प्रणाली of बंधुआ मजदूर ज्ञात as indentured servitude.
This typically lasted for several सालो लिये दोनो ग़रीब europeans और africans alike, to अदा off the costs of transport to the colonies.
They contracted for such arrangements क्युकी of ग़रीब economies in उनके घर countries.
Between 1680 and 1700, as fewer europeans migrated to the colonies, planters began to import more Africans as slaves.
recognizing the महत्व of गुलामी, the हाउस of burgesses in वर्जिनिया enacted a नई स्लेव code in 1705 ; it combined a variety of legislation and added new provisions enforcing white supremacy in the law.
schematic क्रॉस खण्ड of भाग of leaf, xylem shown as red circles at figure 8.
Xylem is one of the two types of transport tissue in vascular पौधे ( फ्लोएम is the अन्य ).
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ), अर्थ `` लकडी '' ; the best-known जाइलम ऊतक is wood, though it is found throughout the plant.
Its basic function is to transport water, लकिन it भी transports कुछ nutrients through the plant.
इस क्लॉक प्रतिनिधित्व shows कुछ of the major units of geological time and definitive events of Earth history.
The Hadean eon represents the time before fossil record of life on धरती ; इसके अपर boundary is अभी regarded as 4.0 ga ( अरब years ago ).
Other subdivisions प्रतिबिंबित the एवोल्यूशन of जीवन ; the archean और proterozoic हैं दोनो eons, the palaeozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic are eras of the Phanerozoic eon.
The two million year Quaternary काल, the समय of recognizable इंसानो, is too small to be visible at this scale.
The geologic time scale is a system of chronological measurement that relates stratigraphy to समय, और is प्रयुक्त by geologists, paleontologists, और अन्य धरती वैज्ञानिकों to describe the समय और संबंध between events that have occurred throughout Earth 's history.
The table of geologic time spans presented here agrees with the तिथियाँ और नामकरण नियत forth by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय आयोग on Stratigraphy standard color codes of the International Commission on Stratigraphy.
प्रमाण इससे radiometric डेटिंग indicates कि the Earth is about 4.54 billion years old.
The geology or गहन समय of धरती 's पास्ट रै महरूम व्यवस्थित into various units according to events which took place in each period.
Different spans of time on the GTS are usually delimited by परिवर्तन in the संयोजन of strata जिससे correspond to उन्हें, indicating major geological or paleontological events, such as mass extinctions.
For example, the boundary between the cretaceous काल और the paleogene काल is पारिभाषित by the cretaceous–paleogene extinction event, which marked the demise of the dinosaurs and many other groups of life.
Older time spans which predate the विश्वसनीय चट्टान रिकार्ड ( पहले the proterozoic Eon ) are defined by absolute age.
The ti-82 is a graphing परिपथ made by Texas Instruments.
The ti-82 थी designed in 1993 as a stripped down, more user friendly version of the TI-85, and as a replacement for the TI-81.
It was the direct पूर्ववर्ती of the ti-83.
It साझा साथ the ti-85 a 6 mhz zilog Z80 microprocessor.
Like the TI-81, the TI-82 features a 96x64 pixel display, and the core विशेषता नियत of the ti-81 साथ अनेक नई सुविधाएँ.
The cast of characters of the किंग of Fighters XI.
The King of Fighters fighting game series, produced by SNK Playmore, includes a wide डाल of वर्ण, कुछ of जिससे हैं लिया इससे अन्य snk खेल.
the स्टोरी takes प्लेस in a fictional ब्रह्मांड in which an annual series of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 fighting tournaments are held.
The first game in the series introduces the initial main character of the series, Kyo Kusanagi, a young Japanese fighter who is the वारिस to a शक्तिशाली समूह of martial कलाकारों having pyrokinetic abilities.
Kyo fights against the kusanagi गोत्र 's दुश्मनों, उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वी iori Yagami, and the god Orochi and its human followers, among others.
The first four games in the series revolve about these fights, while The King of Fighters '99 introduces a new story चाप, घूमती around k ', a यंग man जो seeks to नष्ट the रहस्यमय nests संगठन क्युकी वे kidnapped उसे at an जल्दी आयु और stripped उसे of उसके पास्ट यादें, so that they could force him to be a fighter under their control.
In The King of Fighters 2003, a नई अक्षर नामित राख crimson enters the टूर्नामेंट, to चोरी the powers of the clans who sealed the Orochi in the past for an unknown reason.
A new group of antagonists, known as Those From the Past, also appears in the श्रेणी ; वे want to obtain orochi 's शक्ति लिये the purpose of giving it to उनके अनजान निपुण.
the प्लाट और the वर्ण came from the Yamata no Orochi legend.
There are also अनेक वर्ण in the खेल कि हैं parodies or homages to अनेक लोकप्रिय anime, manga, and films.
Merchandise based on the characters has also been released, सहित कार्रवाई आंकड़े और keychains.
The characters have garnered praise from several video खेल publications लिये the विशेषता of उनके डिजाइन और movesets.
Comments focused on the lack of improvements in some of the characters, लकिन added कि the रोस्टर is greatly विविध.
व्हेल युद्धों is a साप्ताहिक अमरीकी documentary-style वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी that premiered on November 7, 2008 on the Animal Planet cable channel.
The program follows Paul Watson, founder of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, as he and the crew aboard उनके विभिन्न बरतन harass जापानी whalers बंद the coast of अंटार्कटिक.
On January 5, 2013, एनिमल ग्रह नवीनीकृत the series for a sixth season.
The Harpy Eagle ( Harpia harpyja ) is a neotropical प्रजाति of eagle.
It is sometimes known as the American Harpy Eagle to distinguish it from the पापुआई त्रिभुज जिससे is sometimes ज्ञात as the नई गिनी harpy Eagle or Papuan Harpy Eagle.
It is the largest and most शक्तिशाली रैप्टर मिला in the americas, और among the largest extant प्रजाति of ईगल्स in the world.
It usually inhabits tropical lowland rainforests in the अपर ( emergent ) canopy परत.
विनाश of इसके प्राकृतिक आवास रै देखी it vanish इससे अनेक भाग of its former range, and it is nearly extirpated in Central America.
Biological classification, or scientific classification in biology, is a method of scientific taxonomy प्रयुक्त to समूह और categorize जीवों into समूह ऐसे as genus or species.
These groups are known as taxa ( एकवचन : taxon ).
Modern biological classification has its root in the work of Carolus लीनियस, जो grouped प्रजाति according to साझा शारीरिक characteristics.
These groupings have since been revised to improve consistency with the darwinian principle of आम descent.
With the introduction of the cladistic method in the late 20th सदी, phylogenetic taxonomy in जिससे जीवों हैं grouped आधारित purely on inferred विकासवादी relatedness, ignoring morphological similarity, has become common in some areas of biology.
Molecular phylogenetics, which uses DNA sequences as data, रै भी चलित अनेक हाल revisions और is likely to continue doing so.
Biological classification belongs to the science of biological systematics.
लेनन 's हस्ताक्षर
John Winston Ono Lennon, ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9 October 1940 – 8 December 1980 ) was an English musician, singer and songwriter who rose to worldwide fame as a founder member of the बीटल्स, एक of the सबसे commercially कामयाब और critically acclaimed अधिनियमों in the इतिहास of लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक.
With Paul McCartney, he formed one of the most मनाये songwriting partnerships of the 20th century.
Born and raised in Liverpool, as a teenager Lennon became शामिल in the skiffle craze ; his first band, the Quarrymen, evolved into the Beatles in 1960.
As the group disintegrated towards the समाप्त of the दशक, लेनन embarked on a सोलो करियर कि उत्पादित the critically acclaimed albums John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band and Imagine, and iconic songs such as `` Give Peace a Chance `` and `` Imagine ``.
After his marriage to Yoko Ono in 1969, he बदला उसके नाम to जॉन ओनो लेनन.
Lennon disengaged खुद इससे the म्यूज़िक कारोबार in 1975 to devote समय to उठाने his infant son Sean, but re-emerged with Ono in 1980 with the new album Double Fantasy.
He was murdered three सप्ताह बाद इसके रिलीज.
Lennon revealed a rebellious nature और acerbic wit in उसके म्यूज़िक, लिखने, drawings, on फिल्मी and in interviews.
Controversial through his राजनैतिक और सलाम सक्रियता, he स्थानांतरित to नई यॉर्क नगर in 1971, जहाँ उसके आलोचना of the वियतनाम युद्ध resulted in a lengthy attempt by रिचर्ड निक्सन 's प्रशासन to deport him, while some of his songs were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement.
As of 2012, Lennon 's solo album sales in the United States exceed 14 लाख इकाई, और as लेखक, co-writer or यजमान, he is जिम्मेदार लिये 25 number-one singles on the US Hot 100 chart.
In 2002, a BBC poll on the 100 महानतम britons voted उसे आठवीं, और in 2008, रोलिंग स्टोन क्रमित him the fifth-greatest singer of all time.
He was posthumously inducted into the songwriters हॉल of कीर्ति in 1987 और into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1994.
प्रतिमा of rip वैन winkle in irvington, नई यॉर्क, नहीं दूर इससे `` Sunnyside ``, the home of Washington Irving
`` Rip Van Winkle '' is a short स्टोरी by अमरीकी लेखक वॉशिंगटन इरविंग प्रकाशित in 1819, as खूब as the नाम of the story 's fictional protagonist.
Written while Irving was living in Birmingham, इंग्लैण्ड, it थी भाग of a संग्रहण हकदार The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon.
Although the story is set in New York 's Catskill Mountains, इरविंग बाद admitted, `` जब i लिखा the स्टोरी, I had never been on the Catskills. ''
Throughout the fifty-five साल इतिहास of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, अनेक significant रिकॉर्ड have been set.
This page only includes the प्रतिस्पर्धी पुरस्कार जीती by विभिन्न artists.
This does not include the various special awards कि हैं प्रस्तुत by the नेशनल अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और sciences ऐसे as आजीवन उपलब्धि Awards, Trustees Awards, Technical Awards or Legend Awards.
the पेज however करता शामिल अन्य non-performance सम्बन्धित grammys ( ज्ञात as the शिल्प & Production Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ).
Pee-wee Herman is a कॉमिक fictional अक्षर निर्मित और portrayed by अमरीकी comedian Paul Reubens.
he is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके दो टेलीविज़न series and film series during the 1980s.
The childlike pee-wee herman अक्षर विकसित as a स्टेज अधिनियम कि quickly led to an HBO special in 1981.
As the stage performance gained further popularity, Reubens took the character to motion picture with Pee-wee 's बिग एडवेंचर in 1985, toning bas the वयस्क innuendo लिये the अपील of children.
इस प्रशस्त the रास्ता लिये pee-wee 's playhouse, an एमी पुरस्कार winning children 's series that ran on CBS from 1986-1991.
Another फिल्मी, बिग शीर्ष pee-wee, थी released in 1988.
Due to negative media attention following a कांड in 1991, reubens decided to shelve उसके alter अहंकार दौरान the 1990s, and then gradually resurrected it during the following decade.
It was at that time that Reubens addressed plans to लिखें a नई pee-wee फिल्मी, pee-wee 's playhouse : the फिल्म.
In June 2007, reubens appeared as pee-wee herman लिये the पहला time since 1991 at Spike TV 's Guys ' Choice Awards.
That '70s Show is an American television period sitcom that centers on the lives of a group of teenage friends living in the fictional suburban कस्बा of पाइंट प्लेस, विस्कॉन्सिन, इससे may 17, 1976, to दिसम्बर 31, 1979.
It debuted on the Fox television network, first airing on August 23, 1998, running for eight लगातार सीज़न, और concluding साथ the 200th एपीसोड on may 18, 2006.
The main teenage डाल सदस्यों यहूद topher अनुग्रह, mila kunis, Ashton Kutcher, Danny Masterson, Laura Prepon, and Wilmer Valderrama.
The main adult cast members were Debra Jo Rupp, kurtwood स्मिथ, डॉन स्टार्क और, दौरान the पहला तीन सीज़न, Tanya Roberts.
Kansas ( ) is a U.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the midwestern United States.
It is named बाद the कान्सास नदी जिससे बहती through it, which in turn was named after the Kansa Native American tribe, which inhabited the area.
The tribe 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is often said to mean `` people of the wind '' or `` लोगों of the दक्षिण हवा, '' हालांकि इस थी संभवतः नहीं the पद 's original meaning.
Residents of कान्सास हैं पुकारा `` Kansans. ''
For thousands of years what is now कान्सास थी घर to numerous और diverse Native American tribes.
Tribes in the पूर्वी भाग of the राज्य generally lived in villages along the river valleys.
Tribes in the Western भाग of the राज्य यहूद सेमi- nomadic और hunted विशाल herds of bison.
Kansas was first settled by European Americans in the 1830s, but the pace of उपनिवेश त्वरित in the 1850s, in the midst of राजनैतिक युद्धों over the slavery issue.
When officially opened to उपनिवेश by the u.S. सरकारी in 1854, abolitionist free-staters इससे नई इंग्लैण्ड और pro-slavery settlers इससे neighboring मिसौरी rushed to the territory to determine if Kansas would become a free state or a slave state.
यूँ, the क्षेत्रफल थी a hotbed of हिंसा और अराजकता in इसके जल्दी दिनों as these forces collided, and was known as Bleeding Kansas.
the abolitionists आखिरकार prevailed और on January 29, 1861, Kansas entered the Union as a free state.
After the Civil War, the population of कान्सास grew rapidly, जब लहरें of आप्रवासियों turned the prairie into farmland.
Today, Kansas is one of the most productive agricultural राज्य, producing ऊँची yields of गेहूं, ज्वार और sunflowers.
Kansas is the 15th most extensive and the 33rd सबसे populous of the 50 United States.
Psychology is an अकादमिक और लागू अनुशासन that involves the scientific study of mental functions and behaviors.
मनोविज्ञान रै the तात्कालिक लक्ष्य of समझना individuals और समूह by दोनो establishing general principles and researching specific cases, and by many accounts it ultimately aims to benefit society.
In this field, a professional or शोधकर्ता is पुकारा a मनोवैज्ञानिक और can be वर्गीकृत as a सोशल, behavioral, or cognitive scientist.
Psychologists attempt to understand the भूमिका of दिमागी कृत्यों in व्यक्तिगत और सोशल बर्ताव, जबकि भी exploring the physiological और neurobiological processes that underlie certain cognitive functions and behaviors.
psychologists explore अवधारणाओं ऐसे as बोध, संज्ञान, ध्यान, जज्बात, phenomenology, प्रेरणा, दिमाग functioning, personality, behavior, and interpersonal relationships.
psychologists of विविध धारियाँ भी consider the unconscious mind.
psychologists employ अनुभवजन्य विधि to infer causal and correlational relationships between psychosocial variables.
In addition, or in opposition, to employing empirical and deductive methods, some—especially clinical and counseling psychologists—at टाइम्स rely upon सांकेतिक निर्वचन और अन्य आगमनात्मक तकनीकों.
Psychology has been described as a `` hub science '', with मनोवैज्ञानिक निष्कर्षों linking to शोध और perspectives इससे the सोशल sciences, प्राकृतिक sciences, आयुर्विज्ञान, and the humanities, such as philosophy.
While psychological knowledge is often applied to the मूल्यांकन और उपचार of दिमागी स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं, it is भी निर्देशित towards understanding and solving problems in many different spheres of human activity.
the बहुमत of psychologists हैं शामिल in some kind of therapeutic role, practicing in clinical, counseling, or school settings.
Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental processes and बर्ताव, और typically कार्य in विश्वविद्यालयों मनोविज्ञान विभाग or सिखा in अन्य अकादमिक जमावट ( e.g., medical schools, hospitals ).
Some are employed in औद्योगिक और organizational जमावट, or in अन्य क्षेत्रों ऐसे as इंसान विकास and aging, sports, health, and the media, as well as in forensic investigation and other aspects of law.
Thomas Jefferson ( अप्रैल 13, 1743 ( अप्रैल 2, 1743 o.S. ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) थी an अमरीकी founding पिता, the principal author of the Declaration of Independence ( 1776 ) and the third President of the United States ( 1801–1809 ).
At the beginning of the American Revolution, he served in the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस, representing वर्जिनिया और तब परोसा as a wartime राज्यपाल of वर्जिनिया ( 1779–1781 ).
Just after the war ended, इससे mid-1784 जेफरसन परोसा as a राजनयिक, stationed in Paris.
In May 1785, he became the United राज्य मंत्री to फ़्रांस.
जेफरसन थी the पहला संयुक्त राज्य सचिव of राज्य ( 1790–1793 ) सेवारत under President George Washington.
साथ उसके बंद dost जेम्स मैडिसन he व्यवस्थित the Democratic-Republican Party, and subsequently resigned from Washington 's cabinet.
निर्वाचित वाइस अध्यक्ष in 1796, जब he आए in दूसरी to जॉन एडम्स of the federalists, जेफरसन opposed Adams and with Madison secretly wrote the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions, which attempted to nullify the Alien and Sedition Acts.
निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष in कया जेफरसन पुकारा the क्रान्ति of 1800, he oversaw the खरीदें of the विशाल Louisiana Territory from France ( 1803 ), and sent the Lewis and Clark Expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the new west.
His second term was beset with troubles at home, ऐसे as the विफल देशद्रोह विचारण of उसके पूर्व वाइस अध्यक्ष आरोन Burr.
साथ escalating ट्रबल साथ ब्रिटेन जो थी चुनौतीपूर्ण अमरीकी neutrality and threatening shipping at sea, he tried economic warfare with his embargo laws which only damaged American trade.
In 1803, अध्यक्ष जेफरसन initiated a प्रक्रम of भारतीय जनजातीय हटाना और relocation to the louisiana territory वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी River, in order to open lands for eventual American settlers.
A leader in the Enlightenment, जेफरसन थी a बहुश्रुत जो spoke पाँच भाषाएं धड़ल्ले और थी deeply दिलचस्पी in विज्ञान, invention, architecture, religion and philosophy, interests that led him to the founding of the University of Virginia after his presidency.
He designed his own विशाल mansion on a 5,000 एकड़ वृक्षारोपण निकट charlottesville, Virginia, which he named Monticello.
While not a notable orator, Jefferson was a skilled लेखक और corresponded साथ अनेक influential people in America and Europe throughout his adult life.
Though Jefferson owned many slaves, he opposed the संस्था सब उसके जीवन और नतीजतन treated और took परवाह of उन्हें very well and expected them to work no more than free farmers.
Since 1802 historians and अन्य have महरूम विभाजित over the विवाद of whether जेफरसन थी the पिता of one or more children belonging to Sally Hemings, a slave at Monticello. ''
Historians are also in असहमति साथ कैसा much जेफरसन थी वचनबद्ध to the anti-slavery cause.
In 1807, अध्यक्ष जेफरसन हस्ताक्षरित into विधि a विधेयक कि बैन the importation of slaves into the United States.
After Martha Jefferson, his wife of eleven years, died in 1782, Jefferson remained a विधुर लिये the बाकी of उसके जीवन ; उनके विवाह उत्पादित छह children, of जिसको दो बच to adulthood.
Though जेफरसन रै महरूम criticized by अनेक आधुनिक दिन विद्वानों over the समस्या of गुलामी, he remains rated as one of the greatest U.S. presidents.
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest song written by स्टीवन वैन zandt, उत्पादित by वैन zandt और आर्थर बेकर और अंकित by कलाकारों संयुक्त Against Apartheid to convey opposition to the South African policy of apartheid.
The primary means of that opposition is to declare that all the artists involved would refuse any and all offers to perform at Sun City, a रिज़ॉर्ट जिससे थी स्तिथ in bantustan of bophuthatswana, एक of a क्रमांक of internationally unrecognized supposed `` independent '' states created by the South African government to forcibly relocate its black population.
This page is a list of characters in the Police Academy film और टेलीविज़न श्रेणी.
Bill रसेल जीती 11 championships with the Boston Celtics.
This is a list of एनबीए खिलाड़ी साथ सबसे championships won as a player.
The नेशनल बास्केट संघ ( एनबीए ) is a major professional basketball league in North America.
It was founded in 1946 as the बास्केट संघ of America ( BAA ).
The league adopted its current name at the प्रारंभ of the जब it merged with the National Basketball League ( NBL ).
The NBA Finals is the चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी लिये the एनबीए और the निष्कर्ष of the sport 's postseason.
the जीतना टोली of the श्रेणी receives the Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy.
खिलाड़ी इससे the जीतना टोली प्रायः प्राप्त चैंपियनशिप rings from the team honoring their contribution.
However, in some rare occasion, the teams opted to gave other commemorative वस्तुएं, ऐसे as कलाई घड़ियाँ, बजाय of बजती.
The number of championships जीती by एनबीए सुपरस्टार is प्रायः used as a measurement of their greatness.
Boston Celtics center Bill Russell holds the record for the most NBA championships won साथ 11 शीर्षक दौरान उसके 13-year playing career.
He won his first championship साथ the बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स in उसके rookie year.
Afterwards, he गई on to जीत 10 championships in the अगला 12 years, including eight consecutive championships from 1959 to 1966.
He won the last two championships in 1968 और 1969 as player-coach.
रसेल 's teammate, sam जोन्स, won 10 championships from 1959 to 1969, the second most in NBA history.
Four सेल्टिक्स खिलाड़ी, tom heinsohn, K. C. Jones, Satch Sanders and John Havlicek, won eight championships each.
Two other सेल्टिक्स, जिम loscutoff और Frank Ramsey, won seven championships each.
Four players, Bob Cousy, Kareem abdul-jabbar, माइकल जॉर्डन और scottie pippen, जीती छह championships each.
Jordan and Pippen are members of the शिकागो bulls टोली जो जीती तीन consecutive championships twice in the 1990s.
Robert Horry and John salley हैं the तभी खिलाड़ी to have जीती the championships with three different teams.
Horry won seven championships with the Houston Rockets, the Los Angeles Lakers and the San Antonio Spurs, जबकि salley जीती चार championships साथ the डेट्रॉयट पिस्टन्स, the Bulls and the Lakers.
Frank Saul and Steve केर हैं the तभी खिलाड़ी to जीत दो championships with two different teams in consecutive seasons.
Saul won consecutive championships with the Rochester Royals and the Minneapolis Lakers in the 1950s, जबकि केर जीती लगातार championships साथ the bulls and the Spurs in the 1990s,
Accuracy indicates proximity of measurement परिणाम to the सच्चा मान, परिशुद्धता to the repeatability, or reproducibility of the measurement
In the fields of science, engineering, industry, and statistics, the accuracy of a मापन प्रणाली is the उपाधि of निकटता of माप of a मात्रा to कि मात्रा 's वास्तविक ( सच्चा ) value.
the परिशुद्धता of a मापन प्रणाली, भी पुकारा reproducibility or repeatability, is the उपाधि to जिससे repeated measurements under unchanged conditions show the same results.
Although the two words reproducibility and repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial उपयोग, वे हैं deliberately contrasted in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the scientific method.
A मापन प्रणाली can be सटीक लकिन नहीं precise, precise but not accurate, neither, or both.
For example, if an experiment contains a systematic error, then increasing the sample size generally increases परिशुद्धता लकिन करता नहीं improve सटीकता.
The result would be a सतत yet inaccurate स्ट्रिंग of परिणाम from the flawed experiment.
Eliminating the व्यवस्थित गलती improves सटीकता लकिन करता not change precision.
A measurement system is designated मान्य if it is दोनो सटीक और precise.
Related terms include bias ( non- random or निर्देशित प्रभाव caused by a फ़ैक्टर or कारकों unrelated to the स्वतंत्र variable ) and error ( random variability ).
The terminology is भी लागू to अप्रत्यक्ष measurements—that is, मान प्राप्त by a computational procedure from observed data.
In addition to सटीकता और परिशुद्धता, माप may भी have a मापन रेज़ोल्यूशन, जिससे is the smallest बदलें in the underlying physical quantity that produces a response in the measurement.
In the case of full reproducibility, such as when rounding a number to a representable floating point number, the शब्द परिशुद्धता रै a अर्थ नहीं सम्बन्धित to reproducibility.
For example, in the IEEE 754-2008 मानक it अर्थात् the क्रमांक of बिट्स in the significand, so it is प्रयुक्त as a measure for the relative accuracy with which an arbitrary number can be represented.
बकवास in इसके शाब्दिक अर्थ refers to the act of sexual intercourse.
It is an English word that is often used as a profanity, either to denote तिरस्कार or as an intensifier.
The origin of the शब्द is अस्पष्ट.
It is प्रायः माना to be पहला attested to around 1475, but it may be considerably older.
In modern usage, fuck और इसके डेरिवेटिव ( ऐसे as कमीने और fucking ) can be प्रयुक्त in the position of a noun, a verb, an adjective or an adverb.
There are many आम वाक्यांश जिससे मेक use of the word, as well as a number of compounds incorporating it, such as motherfucker.
एनिमेटेड, color-coded मैप प्रर्दशित the various continents and regions.
Depending on the convention और मॉडल, कुछ महाद्वीपों may be संचित or subdivided : लिये उदाहरण, यूरेशिया is सबसे प्रायः subdivided into Europe and Asia ( red shades ), while North and South America are sometimes recognized as one American continent ( green shades ).
A continent is one of अनेक बहुत विशाल landmasses on धरती.
They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria, साथ up to सात regions commonly regarded as continents—they हैं ( इससे largest in आकार to smallest ) : Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, and Australia.
In geology, महाद्वीपों हैं वर्णित by अर्थात् of tectonic plates.
Plate विवर्तनिकी is the प्रक्रम और पढ़ाई of the गति, टक्कर and division of continents, earlier known as continental drift.
Biker Boyz is a 2003 फिल्मी परिचय a समूह of भूमिगत मोटरसाइकिल drag racers.
It सितारों laurence फिशबर्न, djimon hounsou, डेरेक ल्यूक, meagan शुभ, and Larenz Tate and is written and directed by Reggie Rock Bythewood.
It also features Lisa Bonet, ऑरलैंडो जोन्स, बच्चा चट्टान और वैनेसा घंटी calloway.
For the स्टील पैंथर सोंग, देखिए महसूस the Steel.
Community property is a marital property regime that originated in civil law jurisdictions और is अभी भी मिला in कुछ common law jurisdictions.
The states of the United States that recognize community property are primarily in the West ; it was inherited from Mexico 's ganancial community प्रणाली, जिससे itself थी inherited इससे स्पेनी विधि ( a रोमन -derived civil law system ) and ultimately from the Visigoths.
While under Spanish rule Louisiana adopted the ganancial community प्रणाली of acquests और gains, जिससे replaced the परंपरागत फ्रेंच जातियाँ of movables and acquests in its civil law system.
Map of the संयुक्त राज्य साथ जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी states highlighted in red.
In addition to the highlighted states, Alaska is a separate प्रॉपर्टी राज्य कि permits युगल to ऑप्ट into a जातियाँ property arrangement.
In a community property jurisdiction, most property acquired during the marriage ( except for gifts or inheritances ) —the जातियाँ, or communio bonorum—is स्वामित्व jointly by दोनो spouses और is विभाजित upon तलाक, annulment or मौत.
Joint ownership is automatically presumed by law in the absence of specific प्रमाण कि होता पाइंट to a contrary निष्कर्ष लिये a particular टुकड़ा of प्रॉपर्टी.
Division of community property may take place by मद, by splitting सब items or by value.
In some jurisdictions, such as California, a 50/50 division of community property is सख्ती mandated by statute, अर्थ कि the फ़ोकस तब शिफ्ट to whether particular वस्तुएं हैं to be classified as community or separate property.
In other jurisdictions, such as Texas, a divorce court may डिक्री an `` निष्पक्ष वितरण `` of जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी, जिससे may परिणाम in an unequal division of such.
In non-community प्रॉपर्टी राज्य property may be divided by equitable distribution.
Generally speaking, the property that each partner brings into the विवाह or receives by तोहफा, bequest or मक्कारी during marriage is called separate property ( i.e., not community property ).
See प्रभाग of property.
Division of जातियाँ debts may नहीं be the वही as division of community property.
For example, in California, community property is जरूरी to be विभाजित `` बराबर '' जबकि जातियाँ कर्ज़ is required to be divided `` equitably ''.
Property that is owned by one spouse before the विवाह is the पृथक प्रॉपर्टी of कि जीवनसाथी, जबतक the property is `` transmuted '' into community property.
The नियम लिये इस vary इससे jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge waving to the भीड at the मॉल shortly बाद the विवाह.
The विवाह of प्रिंस विलियम, ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज, और कैथरीन मिडलटन took place on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey in London.
The groom, Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, is the eldest son of Charles, प्रिंस of वेल्स, और is दूसरी in the लकीर of उत्तराधिकार to the अंग्रेजों सिंहासन और the तख्तों of पंद्रह अन्य राष्ट्रमंडल realms.
The bride, Catherine `` Kate '' Middleton is the eldest of three children of माइकल और carole मिडलटन of bucklebury, बर्कशायर.
The Dean of Westminster, John Hall, presided at the service ; the Archbishop of canterbury, rowan विलियम्स, conducted the विवाह ; रिचर्ड chartres, the बिशप of London, preached the sermon ; and a reading was given by the bride 's brother, James.
William 's best man was his brother, Prince हैरी, जबकि the बहू 's सिस्टर, पिप्पा, was maid of honour.
The ceremony was attended by the बहू 's और दूल्हे 's परिवारों, as खूब as many foreign royals, diplomats, and the couple 's chosen personal guests.
After the ceremony, the couple बना the परंपरागत रूप on the balcony of Buckingham Palace.
As Prince William was नहीं the वारिस apparent to the सिंहासन, the विवाह थी नहीं a पूरा राज्य अवसर और अनेक विवरण were left to the couple to decide, such as much of the guest list of about 1,900.
Prince विलियम और केट मिडलटन met in 2001.
Their engagement on 20 October 2010 थी घोषित on 16 नवम्बर 2010.
The build-up to the wedding and the occasion itself attracted much मीडिया ध्यान, होने compared in अनेक तरीके साथ the 1981 marriage of William 's parents.
The occasion was a public अवकाश in the संयुक्त किंगडम और प्रदर्शित अनेक ceremonial aspects, including use of the state carriages and roles for the Foot Guards and Household Cavalry.
Events यहूद आयोजित around the राष्ट्रमंडल to चिह्नित the विवाह ; संगठनों और होटल आयोजित कार्यक्रम आरपार कनाडा, over 5,000 गली पार्टियों यहूद आयोजित throughout the United Kingdom, and one million people lined the route between Westminster Abbey and Buckingham Palace.
The ceremony was viewed live by tens of लाखो अधिक around the संसार, सहित 72 लाख on the YouTube Royal Channel.
In the United किंगडम, टेलीविज़न ऑडियंस peaked at 26.3 लाख दर्शक, साथ a total of 36.7 million watching part of the coverage.
Vanessa Joy Lachey ( née Minnillo ; born November 9, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व, टेलीविज़न मेजबान, fashion model, and actress.
minnillo थी भी नामित Miss Teen USA in 1998.
She has been a नई यॉर्क -आधारd correspondent लिये entertainment tonight and hosted Total Request Live on MTV.
A hand ( med. / lat. : manus, pl. manūs ) is a prehensile, multi- fingered extremity स्तिथ at the समाप्त of an भुजा or forelimb of primates और इंसानो, chimpanzees, बंदरों, और lemurs.
A few other vertebrates such as the koala ( which has two opposable thumbs on each `` hand '' and फिंगरप्रिंट remarkably समान to इंसान फिंगरप्रिंट ) हैं प्रायः वर्णित as having either `` हैंड्स '' or `` paws '' on their front limbs.
Hands are the main structures लिये physically manipulating the पर्यावरण, प्रयुक्त लिये दोनो सकल मोटर कौशल ( such as grasping a large object ) and fine motor skills ( such as picking up a small pebble ).
The fingertips contain some of the densest क्षेत्रों of तंत्रिका endings on the देह, हैं the richest सोर्स of tactile प्रतिक्रिया, और have the महानतम positioning काबिलियत of the body ; thus the sense of touch is intimately associated with hands.
Like other paired organs ( eyes, feet, टाँगे ), प्रत्येक हाथ is dominantly नियंत्रित by the opposing दिमाग गोलार्ध, so कि handedness, or the preferred hand choice for single-handed activities such as writing with a pencil, reflects individual brain functioning.
Some evolutionary anatomists use the term hand to refer to the appendage of digits on the forelimb more generally — for example, in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of whether the तीन अंक of the बर्ड हाथ शामिल the वही समजात घाटा of दो अंक as in the डायनासोर हाथ.
The human hand has 27 bones, not including the sesamoid हड्डियों जिससे क्रमांक varies between लोगों.
14 of जिससे हैं the phalanges ( proximal, intermediate and distal ) of the fingers.
The metacarpals हैं the हड्डियों कि connects the fingers and the wrist.
Each human hand has 5 metacarpals और 8 carpal हड्डियों.
Too Cool was a पेशेवर कुश्ती टैग टोली और पूर्व गुट सबसे notably क्रियाशील in World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment between 1998 and 2001 and for a short time in 2004.
Basic डिजिटल सचेतक क्लॉक बगैर a radio.
the चिह्नित in the top-left of the प्रदर्शक indicates that the time is 4:00pm, not 4:00am.
A 1969 रेडियो सचेतक क्लॉक ( सोनी digimatic 8FC-59W ) with an early mechanical-digital display.
A digital clock is a type of क्लॉक कि प्रदर्शक the समय डिजिटली, i.e. in numerals or अन्य प्रतीकों, as opposed to an एनालॉग क्लॉक, जहाँ the समय is indicated by the positions of rotating hands.
Digital clocks are often संबद्ध साथ इलेक्ट्रॉनिक ड्राइव, लकिन the `` डिजिटल '' description refers only to the display, not to the drive mechanism.
( Both analog and digital clocks can be driven either mechanically or electronically, लकिन `` घटीयंत्र '' mechanisms with digital displays are rare. )
The biggest digital clock is the Lichtzeitpegel ( `` Light Time Level '' ) on the television मीनार rheinturm düsseldorf, जर्मनी.
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides the voices of Peter Griffin, Stewie Griffin, ब्रायन griffin, और ग्लेन कीचड़.
Family Guy is an American एनिमेटेड sitcom कि सुविधाएँ पाँच प्रमुख आवाज़ अभिनेताओं, and numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars.
the प्रिंसिपल आवाज़ डाल consists of दिखाएँ निर्माता सेठ macfarlane, एलेक्स Borstein, Seth Green, Mila Kunis ( who replaced Lacey Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now, the new actor Beau Osborne.
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton, Adam West, John G. Brennan, Nicole Sullivan and Jennifer tilly, और repeat अतिथि सितारों शामिल फिलिस diller, चार्ल्स durning, फटाफट limbaugh, और Phil LaMarr.
अनेक डाल सदस्यों provide आवाज़ें लिये अनेक characters.
The voice actors, in portraying the various character personalities on the दिखाएँ, चित्रण प्रेरणा from celebrities and pop culture.
परिवार guy वर्ण have महरूम निभाई by अधिक than एक कर्ता, after members of the show left the series or had conflicting obligations.
kunis थी मनोनीत लिये an एनी पुरस्कार लिये voicing मेग griffin in the ऋतु 5 एपीसोड `` मुश्किल विधिक `` और macfarlane रै भी जीती an एमी पुरस्कार लिये बकाया Voice-Over Performance and an Annie Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production, though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series.
The five sets of the board game Monopoly depicted here show the evolution of the game 's कलाकृति और डिजाइन in the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 1935–2005.
The history of the फलक खेल एकाधिकार can be traced वापस to the early 20th century.
the earliest ज्ञात डिज़ाइन थी by the अमरीकी, एलिज़ाबेथ magie, patented in 1904 but existing as early as 1902.
Magie 's original intent was to publish a board game to illustrate an economic principle, namely the georgist अवधारणा of a सिंगल जमीन value tax.
a श्रेणी of फलक खेल यहूद विकसित इससे 1906 through the 1930s कि शामिल the buying and selling of land and the development of that land.
By 1934, a फलक खेल था महरूम निर्मित much जैसे the संस्करण of एकाधिकार बेची by पार्कर भाइयो और इसके सम्बन्धित companies through the rest of the 20th century, and into the 21st.
अनेक लोगों, ज़्यादातर in the midwestern संयुक्त राज्य and near the East Coast, contributed to the game 's design and evolution.
By the 1970s, the idea that the game had been created solely by Charles Darrow had become popular folklore ; it was printed in the game 's instructions for अनेक सालो, in a 1974 किताब devoted to एकाधिकार, और थी cited in a सामान्य book about toys even as recently as 2007.
Even a guide to family games published for Reader 's Digest in 2003 तभी दिया क्रेडिट to darrow और एलिज़ाबेथ magie, erroneously stating कि magie 's असली खेल थी निर्मित in the 1800s, and not acknowledging any of the game 's development between Magie 's creation of the game, and the eventual publication by Parker Brothers.
Also in the 1970s, Professor Ralph Anspach, जो था खुद प्रकाशित a फलक खेल intended to illustrate the सिद्धान्त of दोनो monopolies और विश्वास busting, लड़ा Parker Brothers and its then parent company, General Mills, over the trademarks of the Monopoly board game.
Through the research of Anspach and others, much of the जल्दी इतिहास of the खेल थी `` rediscovered ''.
anspach confronted maxine ब्रैडी, लेखक of the 1974 किताब the एकाधिकार किताब : Strategy and Tactics of the World 's Most Popular Game over the actual history of the game on Barry Farber 's New York City talk show in 1975.
Because of the lengthy अदालत प्रक्रम, सहित appeals, the विधिक औकात of पार्कर भाइयो ' trademarks on the game was not settled until 1985.
The game 's name remains a registered ट्रेडमार्क of पार्कर भाइयो, as do इसके specific design elements.
At the conclusion of the court case, the game 's logo and graphic design elements became part of a larger Monopoly brand, licensed by पार्कर भाइयो ' जनक कंपनियाँ onto a किस्में of वस्तुएं through the उपस्थित day.
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board game 's early history in the 1970s और 1980s, और अनेक किताबे और जर्नल आलेख on the विषय, हास्ब्रो ( पार्कर भाइयो ' current parent company ) did not acknowledge any of the game 's history before Charles Darrow on its official Monopoly website as recently as June 2012.
Nor did Hasbro acknowledge anyone other than darrow in सामग्री प्रकाशित or प्रायोजित by उन्हें, at least as recently as 2006.
International tournaments, पहला आयोजित in the जल्दी 1970s, continue to the उपस्थित, साथ the अगला world championship likely scheduled for 2013.
Starting in 1985, a new generation of spin-off फलक खेल और कार्ड खेल appeared on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean.
In 1989, the first of many video खेल और कंप्यूटर खेल संस्करण थी प्रकाशित.
Since 1994, अनेक आधिकारिक विसंगतियाँ of the खेल, आधारित on स्थितियाँ अन्य than अटलांटिक नगर, नई जर्सी ( the official U.S. setting ) or London ( the official Commonwealth setting, excepting Canada ), have been published by Hasbro or its licensees.
In 2008, Hasbro permanently changed the color scheme and some of the gameplay of the मानक u.s. संस्करण of the खेल to मैच the uk संस्करण, हालांकि the u.S. मानक संस्करण maintains the Atlantic City property names.
Hasbro also modified the official logo to give the `` Mr. एकाधिकार '' अक्षर a 3-d computer-generated dekh, जिससे रै चूंकि महरूम अपनाया by licensees USAopoly, Winning Moves and Winning Solutions.
And Hasbro has also been including the Speed Die, introduced in 2006 's एकाधिकार : the आचमन संस्करण by जीतना चालें खेल, in संस्करण उत्पादित सीधे by हास्ब्रो ( ऐसे as the 2009 चैंपियनशिप Edition ).
in बेसबॉल, a बलिदान मक्खी is a batted बॉल कि satisfies four criteria:
There are कम than दो outs जब the ball is hit.
The ball is hit to the आउटफील्ड ( मेला or बेईमानी ), or to infield foul territory.
The batter is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder running in the outfield, or foul territory ) catches the बॉल on the मक्खी ( alternatively if the बैटर होता have महरूम आउट if नहीं for an error or if the outfielder drops the ball and another runner is put out ).
A runner who is already on आधार स्कोर on the play.
It is called a `` बलिदान '' मक्खी क्युकी the बैटर presumably intends to cause a teammate to score a run, while sacrificing his own ability to do so.
मिनेसोटा ( ) is a u.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the Midwestern United States.
मिनेसोटा थी carved आउट of the पूर्वी हाफ of the मिनेसोटा territory and admitted to the Union as the 32nd state on May 11, 1858.
Known as the `` Land of 10,000 Lakes '', the राज्य 's नाम आता इससे a डकोटा शब्द लिये `` sky-tinted water ''.
those waters, साथ साथ वनों, पार्क, और wilderness क्षेत्रों, प्रस्ताव निवासियों and tourists a variety of outdoor recreational opportunities.
Minnesota is the 12th सबसे extensive और the 21st most populous of the U.S. states.
Nearly 60 % of its residents live in the Minneapolis–Saint पॉल महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( ज्ञात as the `` जुड़वा शहरों '' ), the बीच of परिवहन, कारोबार, उद्योग, शिक्षा, government and home to an internationally known arts community.
The remainder of the state consists of western prairies now given over to intensive agriculture ; deciduous forests in the southeast, now cleared, farmed and settled ; और the कम आबादी उत्तर वुड्स, प्रयुक्त लिये खनन, forestry, and recreation.
Minnesota is known for its अपेक्षाकृत मिश्रित सोशल और राजनैतिक orientations, और रै a high rate of civic participation and voter turnout.
मिनेसोटा बाँधने among the healthiest states, and has a highly literate population.
The large majority of निवासियों हैं of scandinavian और German descent.
The राज्य is ज्ञात as a बीच of scandinavian American culture.
Ethnic diversity रै increased in हाल decades.
Substantial influxes of Asian, African, and Latin American immigrants have joined the वंशजों of यूरोपीय settlers और the असली देशी अमरीकी निवासियों.
Grants are non-repayable funds by one पार्टी ( ग्रान्ट makers ), प्रायः a सरकारी विभाग, निगम, न्यास or विश्वास, to a, often ( but not always ) a nonprofit entity, educational institution, business or an individual.
In order to receive a grant, some form of `` Grant Writing '' प्रायः referred to as either a प्रस्ताव or an application is usually required.
Most grants हैं बना to निधि a विशिष्ट प्रोजेक्ट और आवश्यकता कुछ स्तर of compliance and reporting.
the ग्रान्ट लिखने प्रक्रम involves an आवेदक submitting a प्रस्ताव ( or सबमिशन ) to a संभावित funder, either on the applicant 's own initiative or in response to a Request for Proposal from the funder.
Other grants can be given to individuals, such as victims of प्राकृतिक आपदाओं or individuals जो तलाश to खोलें a छोटी कारोबार.
Sometimes ग्रान्ट makers आवश्यकता ग्रान्ट जरुरतमंदों to have कुछ रूप of tax-exempt status, be a registered nonprofit organization or a local government.
For example, tiered funding for a freeway are very विशाल अनुदान negotiated at सरकारी नीति स्तर.
However smaller grants may be provided by a सरकारी agency ( e.g. municipal government ).
Project-related funding involving governments, कारोबार, समुदायों, और individuals is प्रायः arranged by application either in writing or online.
Naturally occurring cobalt ( Co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope, 59Co. 28 radioisotopes have been characterized with the most stable होने 60co साथ a half-life of 5.2714 सालो, 57co साथ a half-life of 271.79 दिनों, 56co साथ a half-life of 77.27 days, and 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 days.
All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives कि हैं कम than 18 घंटों और the बहुमत of ये have half-lives that are less than 1 second.
This element also has 11 मेटा राज्य, सब of जिससे have half-lives कम than 15 minutes.
The isotopes of cobalt दायरा in परमाणु वज़न इससे 47co to 75co.
The primary decay mode for isotopes with atomic mass unit values less than that of the most abundant stable isotope, 59Co, is electron capture and the primary विधि of क्षय लिये those of वृहद than 59 परमाणु द्रव्यमान इकाई is beta decay.
The primary decay उत्पाद पहले 59co हैं आयरन isotopes और the प्राथमिक उत्पाद after are nickel isotopes.
Standard परमाणु द्रव्यमान : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
जो स्थानांतरित My Cheese ?
An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life, published in 1998, is a प्रेरक किताब by स्पेंसर जॉनसन लिखा in the स्टाइल of a मिसाल or कारोबार fable.
It describes change in one 's work and जीवन, और चार ठेठ प्रतिक्रियाएँ to कहा बदलें by दो चूहे and two `` littlepeople '', during their hunt for cheese.
A New यॉर्क टाइम्स कारोबार बेस्टसेलर चूंकि release, Who Moved My Cheese ?
remained on the सूची लिये लगभग पाँच सालो और खर्च over 200 सप्ताह on प्रकाशक साप्ताहिक 's hardcover nonfiction list.
It has बेची अधिक than 26 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी in 37 भाषाएं and remains to be one of the best-selling business books.
निकिता sergeyevich khrushchev ( – सितंबर 11, 1971 ) led the Soviet Union during part of the Cold War.
he परोसा as पहला सचिव of the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी of the सोवियत संघ इससे 1953 to 1964, और as अध्यक्ष of the Council of Ministers, or Premier, from 1958 to 1964.
Khrushchev was responsible for the partial de-Stalinization of the Soviet Union, for backing the progress of the early Soviet स्पेस कार्यक्रम, और लिये अनेक अपेक्षाकृत उदार reforms in क्षेत्रों of घरेलू policy.
khrushchev 's पार्टी सहयोगियों removed him from power in 1964, replacing him with Leonid Brezhnev as First Secretary and Alexei Kosygin as Premier.
khrushchev थी born in the रूसी गाँव of kalinovka in 1894, बंद to the present-day border between Russia and Ukraine.
He was employed as a metalworker in उसके युवावस्था, और दौरान the रूसी सिविल War was a political commissar.
With the help of Lazar Kaganovich, he worked उसके रास्ता up the सोवियत hierarchy.
He supported Joseph स्टालिन 's purges, और स्वीकृत हज़ारों of arrests.
In 1939, Stalin sent him to govern युक्त, और he जारी the purges there.
During what was known in the Soviet Union as the Great patriotic युद्ध ( पूर्वी सामने of संसार युद्ध ii ), khrushchev थी again a commissar, serving as an intermediary between Stalin and his generals.
Khrushchev was present at the bloody रक्षा of stalingrad, a फैक्ट he took ग्रेट अभिमान in throughout his life.
बाद the युद्ध, he लौटे to युक्त पहले होने recalled to Moscow as one of Stalin 's close advisers.
In the power struggle triggered by Stalin 's death in 1953, khrushchev, बाद अनेक सालो, उभरा विजयी.
On February 25, 1956, at the 20th Party Congress, he वितरित the `` रहस्य वाक, '' denouncing स्टालिन 's purges और ushering in a less repressive era in the Soviet Union.
His domestic policies, aimed at bettering the lives of ordinary citizens, were प्रायः अप्रभावी, विशेषकर in the क्षेत्रफल of कृषि.
उम्मीद आखिरकार to rely on मिसाइलें for national defense, Khrushchev ordered major cuts in conventional forces.
Despite the cuts, Khrushchev 's rule saw the tensest years of the ठंडा युद्ध, culminating in the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट.
Some of Khrushchev 's policies were seen as erratic, particularly by his emerging rivals, जो चुपचाप रोज़ in शक्ति और अपदस्थ उसे in अक्तूबर 1964.
He किया नहीं suffer the घातक भाग्य of कुछ पिछला losers of सोवियत शक्ति struggles, लकिन थी pensioned off with an apartment in Moscow and a dacha in the countryside.
His lengthy memoirs were smuggled to the West और प्रकाशित in भाग in 1970.
Khrushchev died in 1971 of दिल बीमारी.
Upper gastrointestinal ( gi ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the upper gastrointestinal tract.
The anatomic cut-off for upper GI bleeding is the ligament of treitz, जिससे connects the चौथी portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm near the splenic flexure of the colon.
Upper GI bleeds are considered medical emergencies, and आवश्यकता प्रवेश to हॉस्पिटल लिये तात्कालिक निदान and management.
Due to अग्रिम in medications और endoscopy, upper GI hemorrhage is now usually treated without surgery.
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100, based on UN 2010 projections ( रेड, नारंगी, ग्रीन ) और us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates ( black ).
वास्तविक अंकित जनसांख्यिकी figures are in blue.
according to the उच्चतम अनुमान, the संसार जनसांख्यिकी may वृद्धि to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate, it may decline to 6 billion.
The world जनसांख्यिकी is the कुल क्रमांक of जीना humans on Earth.
As of today, it is अनुमानित to क्रमांक अरब by the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी Bureau ( USCB ).
the uscb estimates कि the संसार population exceeded 7 billion on March 12, 2012.
According to a separate estimate by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी निधि, it reached this milestone on October 31, 2011.
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the समाप्त of the ग्रेट अकाल और the ब्लैक मौत in 1350, जब it stood at around 370 million.
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s, और लिये a longer काल दौरान the 1960s and 1970s.
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963, और था declined to 1.1 % by 2011.
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 लाख, और हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख, जबकि deaths number 56 million per year, and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040.
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ), साथ the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी अपेक्षित to पहुँचें between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050.
Various longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further विकास, stagnation, or even overall decline in the global population by 2150.
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth, citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण, वैश्विक खाना आपूर्तियाँ, और उर्जा संसाधन.
Philips Lumileds lighting कम्पनी is the निर्माता of a चौड़ी दायरा of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ).
It is a अभी a fully स्वामित्व प्रभाग of Philips Lighting.
Knuckle mnemonic लिये the क्रमांक of दिनों in प्रत्येक माह of the Gregorian Calendar.
Each projecting knuckle represents a 31-day month.
A mnemonic (, साथ a मूक `` m '' ), or mnemonic device, is any learning technique that aids information retention.
Mnemonics aim to translate information into a form that the इंसान दिमाग can retain बेहतर than इसके असली form.
Even the process of applying इस परिवर्तन might already सहायता the ट्रांसफ़र of information to long-term memory.
Commonly encountered mnemonics are often for lists and in auditory form, such as short poems, acronyms, or यादगार वाक्यांश, लकिन mnemonics can भी be लिये other types of information and in visual or kinesthetic forms.
Their use is based on the observation that the human mind more easily remembers spatial, personal, surprising, शारीरिक, यौन, humorous, or वरना 'relatable ' सूचना, बल्कि than अधिक अमूर्त or impersonal फ़ॉर्म of सूचना.
The word mnemonic is निकला इससे the प्राचीन यूनानी शब्द μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ), अर्थ `` of मेमोरी '' और is सम्बन्धित to mnemosyne ( `` remembrance '' ), the name of the goddess of memory in Greek mythology.
Both of these शब्द हैं निकला इससे μνήμη ( mnēmē ), `` remembrance, memory ''.
mnemonics in प्राचीनता यहूद सबसे प्रायः माना in the context of what is today known as the Art of memory.
Ancient Greeks and Romans distinguished between दो प्रकार of मेमोरी : the 'natural ' मेमोरी और the 'artificial ' मेमोरी.
The former is inborn, और is the एक कि everyone उपयोग automatically and without thinking.
The artificial memory in contrast has to be trained and developed through the सीखना और practicing of a किस्में of mnemonic तकनीकों.
Mnemonic systems are खास तकनीकों or रणनीति consciously प्रयुक्त to improve मेमोरी, it helps employ सूचना already stored in long-term memory to make memorization an easier task.
President बुश हस्ताक्षर the no चाइल्ड बाएँ पीछे अधिनियम at Hamilton H.S. in Hamilton, Ohio.
The No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 ( nclb ) is a संयुक्त राज्य अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस कि is a reauthorization of the elementary और द्वितीयक Education Act, which included Title I, the government 's flagship aid program for disadvantaged students.
nclb supports standards-based शिक्षा सुधार आधारित on the आधार कि सेटिंग high standards and establishing measurable goals can improve individual outcomes in education.
The Act requires राज्य to develop आकलन in मौलिक कौशल.
States must give ये आकलन to सब विद्यार्थी at चुनें ग्रेड स्तर in order to receive federal school funding.
The Act does not assert a national achievement मानक ; मानकों हैं नियत by प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत राज्य.
NCLB विस्तारित the संघीय भूमिका in पब्लिक शिक्षा through सालाना परीक्षण, annual academic progress, report cards, teacher qualifications, and funding changes.
The bill passed in the U.S. Congress साथ bipartisan support.
Dodge B श्रेणी यूटिलिटी circa 1950, चलित by अल्बर्ट Namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up, often simply referred to as a पिकअप, is a लाइट मोटर गाडी साथ an open-top, पश्च cargo area ( bed ).
In North America, the term pickup is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and फैक्टरी निर्मित, एकीकृत bed, as खूब as लिये coupé यूटिलिटी वाहनों, प्रायः आधारित on a निजी car chassis, लकिन भी प्रायः on a special dedicated chassi for such use.
Some countries have their own terms similar to pickup, such as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई जीलैंड, or bakkie in South Africa.
Large pickup trucks हैं somewhat विरल in यूरोपीय, जहाँ वैन और light lorries are commonly used for similar roles.
This 15th-century depiction of शारलेमेन और पोप एड्रियन i shows a well-bred medieval horse with arched neck, refined head and elegant gait.
Horses in the Middle Ages differed in size, निर्माण और नस्ल इससे the आधुनिक घोड़ा, and were, on average, smaller.
They were also more central to society than their modern counterparts, होने अनिवार्य लिये युद्ध, कृषि, और हस्तांतरण.
Consequently, specific types of horse विकसित, अनेक of जिससे have no आधुनिक equivalent.
While an understanding of modern horse breeds and equestrianism is vital for any analysis of the medieval horse, researchers also need to consider वृत्तचित्र ( दोनो लिखा और सचित्र ) और पुरातत्व प्रमाण.
Horses in the Middle Ages were rarely differentiated by नस्ल, लकिन बल्कि by use.
This led them to be described, for example, as `` chargers `` ( war horses ), `` palfreys `` ( सवारी घोड़े ), कार्ट घोड़े or packhorses.
Reference is also given to their place of origin, ऐसे as `` स्पेनी घोड़े, '' लकिन whether इस referred to one breed or several is unknown.
Another difficulty arising दौरान कोई पढ़ाई of मध्यकालीन दस्तावेज़ or साहित्य is the लचीलापन of the मध्यकालीन भाषाएं, जहाँ अनेक words can be used for one thing ( or, conversely, several objects are referred to by one word ).
Words such as ' courser ' and 'charger ' are used interchangeably ( even भीतर एक दस्तावेज़ ), और जहाँ एक एपिक may बोलो disparagingly of a rouncey, another praises its skill and swiftness.
Significant technological अग्रिम in घुड़सवार उपकरण, प्रायः introduced इससे अन्य संस्कृतियों, allowed for significant changes in both warfare and agriculture.
In particular, improved designs for the solid-treed saddle as well as the arrival of the रकाब, नाल और घोड़ा कॉलर यहूद significant अग्रिम in मध्यकालीन समाज.
नतीजतन, the assumptions और theories विकसित by इतिहासकारों हैं नहीं निर्णायक, और बहस स्टिल rages on अनेक मुद्दे, ऐसे as the breeding or size of the horse, and a number of sources must be consulted in order to understand the breadth of the subject.
The Music Man is a musical साथ किताब, म्यूज़िक, और गीत by मेरेडिथ willson, आधारित on a story by Willson and Franklin Lacey.
The plot concerns con man Harold Hill, who poses as a boys ' band आयोजक और नेता और बिकता बैंड यंत्र और वर्दी to भोली townsfolk पहले skipping town with the cash.
in नदी नगर, आयोवा, prim लाइब्रेरियन और पियानो टीचर marian paroo sees through उसे, but when Hill helps her younger brother overcome his fear of social interactions due to his lisp, Marian begins to fall in love with Harold.
Harold, in turn गिरना लिये marian, risks being caught to win her.
In 1957, the show became a hit on Broadway, winning five Tony Awards, सहित बेहतरीन musical, और कार्यशील लिये 1,375 performances.
The डाल एल्बम जीती the पहला ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये `` बेहतरीन Original Cast Album '' and was number one on the Billboard charts for 245 weeks.
The show 's success led to revivals और a लोकप्रिय 1962 फिल्मी अनुकूलन and a 2003 television remake.
It frequently is उत्पादित by दोनो पेशेवर और amateur थिएटर companies.
निरीक्षक 's wheel
A surveyor 's wheel, also called a clickwheel, hodometer, waywiser, trundle व्हील, measuring व्हील, or perambulator is a यंत्र लिये measuring distance.
Largest non-polar deserts
Sand dunes in the rub ' al खली ( `` खाली क्वार्टर '' ) of Saudi Arabia.
Makhtesh Ramon, negev मरुस्थल, इसराईल
A desert is a landscape or region of जमीन कि is बहुत शुष्क क्युकी of कम वर्षा amounts ( वर्षण ), often has little coverage by plants, and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside areas.
Deserts can भी be वर्णित as क्षेत्रों जहाँ अधिक जल is खोया by evapotranspiration than falls as precipitation.
Desert plants must have special adaptations to जीवित साथ इस छोटी जल.
Deserts generally receive less than 25 cm of बरसात ( वर्षण ) प्रत्येक साल.
semideserts or steppes हैं regions जिससे receive between and.
In the Köppen climate classification system, रेगिस्तान हैं classed as bwh ( hot मरुस्थल ) or BWk ( temperate desert ).
In the Thornthwaite climate classification system, deserts होता be वर्गीकृत as arid megathermal climates.
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918.
It was predominantly called the संसार युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of World War II in 1939, and the First World War or World War I thereafter.
It involved all the world 's great शक्तियां, जिससे यहूद समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम, France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but, as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement, Italy did not enter into the war ).
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy, Japan and the United States joined the allies, और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य and Bulgaria the Central Powers.
Ultimately, more than 70 million सैन्य कर्मियों, सहित 60 लाख europeans, यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest wars in history.
More than 9 million combatants were killed, largely because of technological advancements that led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in सुरक्षा or गतिशीलता.
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history, subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन, ऐसे as revolutions in many of the nations involved.
One of the long-term causes of the युद्ध थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट powers of Europe.
More immediately, the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, on 28 June 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia.
Several alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों were invoked.
Within weeks, the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और, via उनके colonies, the conflict soon spread around the world.
On 28 July, the austro-hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the invasion of Serbia.
While the Russians mobilised, the Germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस, providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany.
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर कि बदला little until 1917.
On the Eastern Front, the रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians, लकिन थी रोका in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans.
In November the Ottoman साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध, खोलने up fronts in the Caucasus, Mesopotamia and the Sinai.
इटली और बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 and Romania in 1916.
In Russia, the tsar 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers.
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front, the Allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives and American forces began entering the trenches.
Germany, which had its own ट्रबल साथ क्रांतिकारियों, agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918.
The war ended in विजय for the Allies.
Events on the home fronts यहूद as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts, as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war.
By the end of the war, चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी, Russian, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist.
The successor राज्य of the पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory, while the latter two were dismantled entirely.
The map of central Europe was redrawn into अनेक छोटी राज्य.
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another ऐसे विरोध.
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the ब्रेकअप of empires, the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II.
`` Girls Just Want to Have Fun '' is a 1979 सोंग originally लिखा by रॉबर्ट जोखिम और बना प्रसिद्ध by singer Cyndi Lauper.
It was the पहला प्रमुख सिंगल released by Lauper as a solo artist and the lead-off single from her debut album She 's So Unusual.
Lauper’s version gained recognition as a feminist गान और प्रचारित by an award-winning video.
it रै महरूम covered on either an album or in live concert by over 30 other artists.
The single was Lauper 's breakthrough hit, reaching # 2 on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 और बनने a विश्वव्यापी hit throughout late 1983 and early 1984.
It remains one of Lauper 's signature songs and was a widely लोकप्रिय सोंग दौरान the era of इसके रिलीज, the 1980s.
The `` Rolling Stone & MTV : '100 Greatest Pop Songs ' : 1-50 '', `` Rolling स्टोन : `` the 100 शीर्ष म्यूज़िक वीडियो '' '' और the `` VH1 : 100 Greatest Videos '' lists ranked the song at # 22, # 39 and # 45, respectively.
The song received a Grammy Award nomination for रिकार्ड of the साल और बेहतरीन मादा पॉप गायन Performance.
View of defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड स्थिति और placement.
Defibrillation is a common treatment for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, और pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic खुराक of विद्युत उर्जा to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle, terminates the dysrhythmia, and allows सामान्य sinus लय to be reestablished by the देह 's प्राकृतिक pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the प्रकार of device used or needed.
Some external units, known as स्वचालित बाह्य defibrillators ( aeds ), automate the निदान of treatable rhythms, meaning that lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little, or in some cases no training at all.
The Cato Institute is an American libertarian सोचो टैंक headquartered in Washington, D.C.
It was founded as the चार्ल्स koch न्यास in 1974 by मरे rothbard, ed क्रेन और चार्ल्स koch, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the conglomerate Koch Industries, Inc..
In जुलाई 1976, the नाम थी बदला to the Cato Institute.
According to the 2011 Global Go To Think Tank अनुक्रमणिका, केटो is the 6th सबसे influential us आधारित सोचो टैंक, रैंकिंग 3rd in आर्थिक नीति and 2nd in Social Policy.
The Institute 's stated mission is `` to increase the समझना of पब्लिक नीतियों आधारित on the सिद्धान्त of सीमित सरकारी, फ़्री markets, individual liberty, and peace.
The Institute will use the most effective means to originate, advocate, प्रचार, और disseminate लागू नीति प्रस्ताव कि बनाएँ फ़्री, खोलें, and civil societies in the United States and throughout the world. ''
Cato scholars were critical of George W. Bush 's Republican प्रशासन ( 2001–2009 ) on अनेक मुद्दे, सहित the इराकी युद्ध, सिविल लिबर्टीज, शिक्षा, agriculture, energy policy, and excessive government spending.
On other issues, they supported Bush प्रशासन पहलों, सबसे notably स्वास्थ्य परवाह, Social Security, global warming, tax policy, and immigration.
During the 2008 U.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, केटो विद्वानों criticized दोनो major-party उम्मीदवार, John McCain and Barack Obama.
Cato has criticized President Obama 's stances on policy मुद्दे चूंकि उसके उद्घाटन, ऐसे as फिस्कल stimulus, healthcare सुधार, विदेशी नीति, and the War on Drugs, while supporting his stance on the repeal of Do n't Ask, Do n't Tell and liberal immigration policy.
Dracula is an 1897 Gothic हॉरर अनोखा by आयरिश लेखक ब्राम स्टोकर.
Famous for introducing the अक्षर of the पिशाच गिनती ड्रैकुला, the अनोखा tells the स्टोरी of ड्रैकुला 's attempt to relocate from Transylvania to England, and the battle between Dracula and a small group of men and women led by Professor Abraham Van Helsing.
Dracula has been assigned to many literary genres सहित पिशाच साहित्य, हॉरर fiction, the गोथिक अनोखा और आक्रमण literature.
The novel touches on themes such as the भूमिका of महिलाओं in विक्टोरियन संस्कृति, यौन प्रथाओं, immigration, colonialism, and post-colonialism.
Although Stoker did not invent the vampire, he defined its modern form, and the novel has spawned numerous नाट्य, फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न interpretations.
Quidditch is a competitive sport in the wizarding संसार of the हैरी कुम्हार ब्रह्मांड, और is इससे the श्रेणी of children 's novels and movies.
It is an extremely rough but very लोकप्रिय semi-contact खेल, निभाई by wizards और witches.
Matches are played between दो टीमों of सात खिलाड़ी सवारी उड़ती broomsticks, using चार गेंदें and six elevated ring-shaped goals, three on each side of the Quidditch pitch ( field ).
In the Harry Potter universe, Quidditch holds a fervent following समान to the स्थिति कि संघ football holds as a globally popular sport.
The खेल is स्मारकीय throughout the wizarding world.
Harry plays an महत्वपूर्ण स्थिति लिये उसके हाउस टोली at हॉग्वार्ट्स : he is the seeker and becomes the captain in his sixth year there.
Regional and international competitions are उल्लेखित throughout the श्रेणी.
In Goblet of Fire, Quidditch at Hogwarts is cancelled for the Tri-Wizard टूर्नामेंट, लकिन हैरी और the weasleys attend the quidditch संसार कप.
In addition, Harry uses his Quidditch skills to capture a golden egg from a dragon called the Hungarian Horntail ( in the first task of the Tri-Wizard Tournament ), to capture a flying key in पारस 's स्टोन, और on दो कुंजी अवसरों in deathly hallows — getting थाम of ravenclaw 's diadem, और दौरान the फाइनल लड़ो साथ voldemort — the `` unerring कौशल of the seeker '' is उपयोगी to him in snatching the Elder Wand out of the air.
Harry Potter has owned दो broomsticks, the nimbus 2000 और the firebolt, दोनो of जिससे are destroyed by the series ' end.
The game has been अपनाया in the रियल संसार in the रूप of Muggle Quidditch.
The United States Congress is the bicameral legislature of the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य consisting of दो घरों : the निम्नतर हाउस ज्ञात as the House of Representatives and the upper house known as the Senate.
Congress meets in the कैपिटल in Washington, D.C.
दोनो प्रतिनिधि और सीनेटरों are chosen through direct election.
Congress has a कुल of 535 मतदान सदस्यों : 435 members in the House of Representatives and 100 members in the Senate.
Members of the House of Representatives serve two-year शर्तें representing the लोगों of a ज़िला.
Congressional districts are apportioned to states by population using the United States Census results, each state in the संघ having at तनिक एक प्रतिनिधि in the हाउस of Representatives.
Regardless of population, प्रत्येक of the 50 राज्य रै दो सीनेटरों ; the 100 सीनेटरों each serve a six-year term.
The terms are staggered so every two years approximately one-third of the सीनेट is up लिये चुनाव.
Each staggered group of one-third of the सीनेटरों हैं पुकारा 'classes '.
No राज्य of the संयुक्त राज्य has two senators from the same class.
Most incumbents seek re-election, और उनके ऐतिहासिक likelihood of जीतना subsequent elections exceeds 90 percent.
In August 2012, a gallup पोल reported कि congress’s approval rating amongst Americans was at 10 %, matching a 38-year low reached in November 2011.
`` A Little More Country Than That '' is the title of a सोंग लिखा by जॉय + रोरी 's रोरी ली feek, व्यान varble, और डॉन poythress, and recorded by American country artist Easton Corbin.
It थी released in अगस्त 2009 as कोर्बिन 's डेब्यू single and is included on his self-titled debut album.
In April 2010, the song reached Number One on the country music charts, making Corbin the पहला पुरूष सोलो कलाकार in सात सालो to भेजें a डेब्यू single to Number One.
It has महरूम certified सुनहरा by the RIAA.
The ब्लैकबेरी is a लकीर of बेतार हैंडहेल्ड डिवाइस और सेवाएं designed and marketed by Research In Motion Limited ( RIM ) operating as BlackBerry.
The first BlackBerry device, an email pager, थी released in 1999 ; the सबसे हाल ब्लैकबेरी डिवाइस, the z10 और q10, यहूद घोषित on January 30, 2013.
The user interface varies by मॉडल ; सबसे विशेषता a शारीरिक क्वर्टी कुंजीपटल, जबकि नए पीढियां have relied on a multi-touch screen and virtual keyboard.
A BlackBerry can shoot video, take photos, खेल म्यूज़िक, और perform ऑनलाइन कृत्यों ऐसे as web-browsing और emailing.
They can also send and receive push ईमेल और तत्काल संदेश जबकि maintaining a ऊँची स्तर of सुरक्षा through on-device message encryption, and are designed to function as personal digital assistants.
BlackBerry devices support a large variety of instant messaging सुविधाएँ, साथ the सबसे लोकप्रिय होने the proprietary BlackBerry Messenger service.
The ब्लैकबेरी playbook is a टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर offered by the company.
The 100 millionth BlackBerry स्मार्टफोन थी shipped in जून क्वार्टर of 2010 और the 200 millionth smartphone was shipped in September quarter of 2012.
BlackBerry accounts for 3 % of mobile device sales worldwide in 2011, making its निर्माता the छठे सबसे लोकप्रिय यंत्र मेकर ( 25 % of मोबाईल device sales are smartphones ).
The consumer BlackBerry Internet सेवा is उपलब्धियाँ in 91 देशों विश्वव्यापी on over 500 मोबाईल service operators using various mobile technologies.
As of September 2012, there were eighty लाख सदस्य विश्वव्यापी to ब्लैकबेरी.
In 2011 the Caribbean and Latin America had the उच्चतम penetrations of ब्लैकबेरी स्मार्टफ़ोन विश्वव्यापी, साथ up to परिचय 45 per cent in the region having a RIM device.
ब्लैकबेरी, iphone, एंड्रॉइड, और खिड़कियाँ फोन are considered the four major smartphone brands.
BlackBerry is widely referred to as `` CrackBerry '' in the United राज्य, जिससे alludes to इसके excessive उपयोग by इसके स्वामी और is a reference to the addictiveness of crack cocaine.
Use of the term CrackBerry became so widespread that in November 2006 Webster 's नई संसार कॉलेज शब्दकोष नामित `` crackberry '' the `` नई शब्द of the साल. ''
an उदाहरण of a माँग वक्र shifting.
The shift इससे d1 to d2 अर्थात् an बढ़ाएँ in माँग with consequences for the other variables
In economics, the माँग वक्र is the आलेख depicting the संबंध between the दाम of a निश्चित कमोडिटी and the amount of it that consumers are willing and able to purchase at that given price.
It is a ग्राफिक प्रतिनिधित्व of a माँग schedule.
The demand curve for all उपभोक्ता साथ फ़ॉलो इससे the माँग वक्र of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत उपभोक्ता : the individual demands at each price are added together.
Demand curves are used to estimate behaviors in competitive markets, and are often combined with supply वक्र to अनुमान the संतुलन दाम ( the दाम at जिससे विक्रेता साथ हैं willing to बेचें the वही राशि as खरीदार साथ हैं willing to ख़रीदे, भी ज्ञात as मार्केट clearing दाम ) and the equilibrium quantity ( the amount of that good or service that will be produced and bought without surplus/excess supply or shortage/excess demand ) of that market.
In a monopolistic market, the demand curve facing the monopolist is बस the मार्केट माँग वक्र.
historia
by nikolaos gysis ( 1892 )
History ( from Greek - historia, meaning `` inquiry, knowledge acquired by छानबीन '' ) is an छतरियाँ पद कि relates to पास्ट कार्यक्रम as खूब as the डिस्कवरी, संग्रहण, संगठन, and presentation of information about these events.
The term includes cosmic, geologic, and organic history, लकिन is प्रायः generically implied to औसत इंसान इतिहास.
Scholars who write about इतिहास हैं पुकारा इतिहासकारों.
History can also refer to the academic discipline which uses a narrative to examine and analyse a अनुक्रम of पास्ट कार्यक्रम, और objectively determine the पैटर्न of कारण और प्रभाव कि determine उन्हें.
Historians sometimes debate the nature of इतिहास और इसके उपयोगिता by discussing the पढ़ाई of the अनुशासन as an समाप्त in itself and as a way of providing `` perspective '' on the problems of the present.
Stories common to a particular culture, but not supported by external sources ( such as the tales surrounding King Arthur ) are usually classified as cultural heritage or legends, because they do नहीं support the `` disinterested छानबीन '' जरूरी of the अनुशासन of history.
Events occurring prior to लिखा रिकार्ड हैं माना prehistory.
Herodotus, a 5th century B.C. Greek historian is considered within the पश्चिमी परंपरा to be the `` पिता of इतिहास '', और, साथ साथ उसके समकालीन thucydides, helped रूप the foundations for the modern study of human history.
Their work continues to be पढ़ा आज और the divide between the culture-focused हिरोडोटस और the military-focused thucydides remains a point of contention or approach in modern historical writing.
In the Eastern tradition, a state वृत्तान्त the वसन्त और पतझड़ annals थी ज्ञात to be compiled इससे as जल्दी as 722 bce हालांकि तभी 2nd century BCE texts survived.
Ancient influences have helped spawn variant interpretations of the प्रकृति of इतिहास जिससे have विकसित over the सदियां and continue to change today.
The modern study of history is wide-ranging, and includes the study of विशिष्ट regions और the पढ़ाई of निश्चित topical or thematical तत्व of ऐतिहासिक छानबीन.
Often history is taught as part of primary and secondary education, and the academic study of history is a प्रमुख अनुशासन in विश्वविद्यालयों अध्ययन.
Malcolm X ( ; May 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born Malcolm छोटी और भी ज्ञात as el-hajj malik el-shabazz ( ), थी an african-american मुस्लिम मंत्री and human rights activist.
to उसके admirers, he थी a साहसी एडवोकेट लिये the अधिकारों of अश्वेतों, a man जो indicted white America in the harshest terms for its crimes against black Americans.
Detractors अभियुक्त उसे of उपदेश जातिवाद, ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता, and violence.
He has been पुकारा एक of the महानतम और सबसे influential African Americans in history.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists, it was rumored—when he थी यंग, और at तनिक एक of उसके uncles थी lynched.
When he was 13, his माँ थी लगाई in a दिमागी हॉस्पिटल, और he was placed in a series of foster homes.
In 1946, at age 20, he गई to थाना लिये breaking and entering.
In prison, Malcolm X became a member of the Nation of Islam ; बाद उसके पैरोल in 1952, he जल्दी रोज़ to become एक of इसके leaders.
For a dozen years, Malcolm X was the public face of the विवादास्पद समूह, लकिन मोहभंग साथ स्वदेश of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East, he returned to the United States, where he founded मुस्लिम मस्जिदे, inc. और the संगठन of afro-american एकता.
In February 1965, less than a year बाद leaving the स्वदेश of islam, he थी assassinated by three members of the group.
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs बदला substantially over time.
As a प्रवक्ता लिये the स्वदेश of islam he सिखाया ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता और advocated separation of black and white Americans —in contrast to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration.
After breaking with the Nation of islam in 1964—saying of उसके संघ साथ it, `` i किया अनेक things as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now.
I was a zombie then... pointed in a certain दिशा और बताई to कूच '' —and बनने a सुन्नी मुस्लिम, he disavowed जातिवाद और expressed willingness to कार्य साथ सिविल अधिकारों नेताओ, he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, and self-defense.
Henry Merritt `` Hank '' Paulson, Jr. ( born March 28, 1946 ) is an American banker who परोसा as the 74th संयुक्त राज्य सचिव of the राजकोष.
He had served as the अध्यक्ष और मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी of गोल्डमैन sachs, और is अभी अध्यक्ष of the paulson संस्थान, जिससे he संस्थापित in 2011 to promote sustainable economic growth and a cleaner environment around the world, with an initial focus on the United States and China.
A virtual machine ( vm ) is a तन्त्र implemented abstraction of the underlying hardware, which is presented to the application layer of the system.
Virtual machines may be based on specifications of a काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर or emulate the कंप्यूटर वास्तुकला और कृत्यों of a real world computer.
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods कि have आठ टाँगे and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom.
They are the largest अनुक्रम of arachnids और रैंक सातवाँ in कुल species diversity among all other groups of organisms.
मकड़ियों हैं मिला विश्वव्यापी on प्रत्येक महाद्वीप मगर लिये अंटार्कटिक, और have become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization.
As of 2008, at least 43,678 मकड़ी प्रजाति, और 109 परिवारों have महरूम अंकित by taxonomists ; however, वहीँ रै महरूम भ्रम भीतर the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ as to कैसा सब ये परिवारों should be classified, as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900.
Anatomically, spiders differ इससे अन्य arthropods in कि the usual देह खण्ड हैं fused into दो tagmata, the cephalothorax और उदर, and joined by a small, cylindrical pedicel.
Unlike कीट, मकड़ियों do not have antennae.
In सब मगर the सबसे आदिम समूह, the mesothelae, मकड़ियों have the most centralized nervous systems of all arthropods, as all their ganglia are fused into one mass in the cephalothorax.
Unlike सबसे arthropods, मकड़ियों have no extensor मांसपेशियां in their limbs and instead extend them by hydraulic pressure.
Their abdomens bear appendages कि have महरूम परिवर्धित into spinnerets कि extrude रेशा from up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen.
Spider webs vary widely in size, shape and the राशि of स्टिकी लड़ी प्रयुक्त.
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms, और मकड़ियों कि उपज उलझे cobwebs हैं अधिक abundant और विविध than orb-web spiders.
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the devonian काल परिचय, लकिन these animals apparently lacked spinnerets.
True spiders have महरूम मिला in carboniferous रॉक्स इससे, और हैं बहुत समान to the most primitive surviving order, the Mesothelae.
The main groups of modern spiders, mygalomorphae और araneomorphae, पहला appeared in the triassic काल, before.
A herbivorous प्रजाति, bagheera kiplingi, थी वर्णित in 2008, लकिन सब अन्य ज्ञात species are predators, mostly preying on insects and on other spiders, although a few large species also take birds and lizards.
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in स्टिकी webs, lassoing it साथ स्टिकी bolas, mimicking the शिकार to avoid detection, or running it down.
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations, but the क्रियाशील hunters have अधि दृष्टि, और hunters of the genus portia दिखाएँ लक्षण of प्रज्ञा in उनके choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones.
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids, and they liquidize उनके खाना by बाढ़ it साथ digestive एंजाइमों और पीस it साथ the bases of उनके pedipalps, as they do not have true jaws.
Male spiders identify themselves by a किस्में of जटिल प्रेमालाप संस्कार to avoid होने खाया by the females.
Males of most प्रजाति जीवित a few matings, सीमित मुख्यतः by उनके short life spans.
Females weave silk egg-cases, प्रत्येक of जिससे may contain सैंकड़ों of eggs.
महिलाओं of अनेक प्रजाति परवाह लिये their young, for example by carrying them around or by sharing food with them.
A minority of प्रजाति हैं सोशल, भवन सांप्रदायिक webs कि may हाउस anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals.
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration, as in the विधवा मकड़ियों, to co-operative hunting and food-sharing.
Although most spiders live लिये at सबसे दो सालो, tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can live up to 25 years in captivity.
While the venom of a few प्रजाति is खतरनाक to इंसानो, वैज्ञानिकों हैं अभी researching the उपयोग of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides.
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness, strength and elasticity that is श्रेष्ठ to कि of सिंथेटिक सामग्री, और मकड़ी रेशा जीनों have been inserted into mammals and plants to see if these can be used as silk factories.
As a result of their wide range of behaviors, spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing विभिन्न combinations of सब्र, क्रूरता और रचनात्मक powers.
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( born फ़रवरी 13, 1960 ) is a fictional अक्षर और एक of the two female leads in the Fox sitcom That '70s Show, appearing in all eight seasons.
Portrayed by लौरा prepon, डोना is the प्रेम ब्याज to Eric Forman.
US county household मध्य आय 2009.
Median us household आय, 2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly प्रयुक्त by the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी और निजी संस्थानों.
प्रत्येक household is measured by the आय of every resident over the age of 15.
Income includes wages and salaries, unemployment insurance, disability payments, child support भुगतान प्राप्त, नियमित rental रसीदें, as खूब as कोई निजी कारोबार, निवेश, or अन्य kinds of आय प्राप्त routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household income had महरूम increasing लगभग प्रत्येक साल इससे 1945 to 1999, it रै चूंकि महरूम चपटा और भी decreased recently.
U.S. median household आय गिरी इससे $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme poverty in the United States, meaning households living on less than $ 2 per day before government benefits, doubled इससे 1996 to 1.5 लाख households in 2011, सहित 2.8 लाख children.
The residents of the household do not have to be सम्बन्धित to the सिर of the household लिये उनके आय to be माना भाग of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a similar economic context, the उपयोग of household आय remains among the सबसे widely स्वीकृत उपायों of आय.
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any विश्लेषण of fluctuations भीतर or among the household आय श्रेणी, और may रेंडर सीधा comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible.
A registered एजेंट, भी ज्ञात as a निवासी एजेंट or statutory एजेंट, in संयुक्त राज्य कारोबार law, is a business or individual designated to receive service of process ( SOP ) when a business entity is a party in a legal action such as a lawsuit or summons.
The registered agent 's address may also be where the state will भेजें the कागजी लिये the वार्षिक नवीकरण of the business entity 's charter.
The पंजीकृत एजेंट लिये a कारोबार एंटिटी may be an व्यक्तिगत सदस्य of the कम्पनी, or ( more often ) a third party, such as the organization 's lawyer or a service company.
Failure to properly maintain a पंजीकृत एजेंट can affect a company negatively.
Office लिये आपात प्रबन्धन.
Office of War सूचना युद्ध पोस्टर 1941 - 1945
`` Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of सुख '' is a well-known phrase in the United States Declaration of Independence.
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable rights '' with which all human beings हैं endowed by उनके निर्माता लिये उनके सुरक्षा of जिससे वे संस्थान सरकारें.
Fencing, is typically divided into Olympic fencing, शास्त्रीय तलवारबाजी और ऐतिहासिक fencing,.
The sport of fencing ( commonly पुकारा ओलम्पिक तलवारबाजी or प्रतिस्पर्धी तलवारबाजी ) is divided into three weapon categories : foil, sabre and épée.
Classical fencing uses the same three weapons, लकिन approaches fencing as a martial art.
Competitive Fencing is one of five sports which has been featured at every one of the आधुनिक ओलम्पिक खेल, the अन्य चार होने एथलेटिक्स, साइकिलिंग, तैराकी, and Gymnastics.
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed मांसपेशी of the femur `` ), भी पुकारा बस the quadriceps, quadriceps extensor, quads, is a large muscle group that includes the four prevailing muscles on the front of the thigh.
It is the great extensor muscle of the घुटना, forming a विशाल मांसल द्रव्यमान जिससे कवर the front and sides of the femur.
the उचित लैटिन बहुवचन रूप of the adjective quadriceps would be quadricipites.
In आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी उपयोग, quadriceps is used in both singular and plural.
the एकवचन रूप quadricep, produced by hypercorrection, is frequently used.
RMS Titanic was a British passenger liner that sank in the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर on 15 अप्रैल 1912 बाद colliding साथ an हिमशैल दौरान her maiden voyage from Southampton, UK to New York City, US.
The sinking of Titanic caused the deaths of 1,502 people in one of the deadliest peacetime मेरीटाइम आपदाओं in आधुनिक history.
The RMS टाइटैनिक थी the largest जलयान afloat at the time of her maiden voyage.
She was the second of three Olympic class ocean liners operated by the श्वेत स्टार लकीर, और वो थी निर्मित by the harland और wolff shipyard in Belfast with Thomas Andrews, who perished with the ship, as her naval architect.
On her maiden voyage, वो carried 2,224 passengers and crew.
Under the command of Edward Smith, her passengers included some of the wealthiest people in the world, as खूब as सैंकड़ों of emigrants इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड, scandinavia और elsewhere throughout यूरोपीय seeking a नई life in North America.
The ship was designed to be the last word in comfort और लक्ज़री, साथ an on-board gymnasium, तैराकी पूल, पुस्तकालयों, high-class restaurants and opulent cabins.
She also had a शक्तिशाली बेतार टेलीग्राफ provided for the convenience of passengers as well as for operational use.
Though she had advanced safety features such as watertight compartments and remotely activated watertight द्वार, वो lacked पर्याप्त lifeboats to accommodate सब of those सवार.
Because of outdated maritime safety regulations, she carried only enough lifeboats for 1,178 people—slightly अधिक than हाफ of the क्रमांक यात्राएं on the maiden voyage, और one-third उसके कुल यात्री और crew capacity.
After leaving Southampton on 10 अप्रैल 1912, टाइटैनिक पुकारा at cherbourg in फ़्रांस और queenstown ( अभी cobh ) in आयरलैंड before heading westwards towards New York.
On 14 April 1912, four days into the crossing and about 375 मील ( 600 km ) दक्षिण of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड, वो hit an हिमशैल at 11:40 pm जलयान 's time.
The glancing collision caused Titanics hull plates to buckle inwards along her starboard side and opened five of her sixteen watertight compartments to the समुद्र ; the जलयान धीरे भर with water.
Meanwhile, passengers और कुछ क्रू सदस्यों यहूद evacuated in lifeboats, many of which were launched only partly loaded.
A disproportionate number of men were left aboard because of a `` women और children पहला `` प्रोटोकॉल followed by कुछ of the अधिकारियों लदान the lifeboats.
By 2:20 AM, she broke अलावा और foundered, साथ खूब over एक हजार people still aboard.
बस अंतर्गत दो घंटों बाद the टाइटैनिक foundered, the cunard लाइनर rms Carpathia arrived on the scene of the sinking, where she brought aboard an estimated 705 survivors.
The disaster was greeted साथ विश्वव्यापी शॉक और आक्रोश at the विशाल घाटा of life and the regulatory and operational failures that had led to it.
Public inquiries in ब्रिटेन और the संयुक्त राज्य led to major improvements in maritime safety.
One of their most important legacies was the स्थापना in 1914 of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सम्मेलन लिये the सुरक्षा of जीवन at समुद्र ( SOLAS ), which still governs maritime safety today.
Additionally, several new wireless regulations यहूद passed around the संसार in an प्रयत्न to सीख इससे the अनेक missteps in wireless communications -- -which could have saved many more passengers.
Many of the survivors खोया सब of उनके धन और possessions और यहूद बाएँ अक्षम ; अनेक परिवारों, विशेषकर those of क्रू सदस्यों from Southampton, lost their primary bread-winners.
They were helped by an outpouring of public sympathy and charitable donations.
Some of the male survivors were accused of cowardice for leaving the जलयान जबकि लोगों यहूद स्टिल on फलक ; the श्वेत स्टार लकीर 's अध्यक्ष, J. ब्रूस Ismay, faced social ostracism for the rest of his life.
The wreck of the Titanic remains on the seabed, split in two and धीरे disintegrating at a गहराई of.
Since its discovery in 1985, हज़ारों of artefacts have महरूम बरामद and put on display at museums around the world.
Titanic has become one of the most famous ships in history, her मेमोरी रखा जिंदा by numerous किताबे, लोक गीतों, films, दर्शाती, और memorials.
The human leg is the entire lower extremity or limb of the human body, including the foot, जांघ और भी the हिप or gluteal प्रदेश ; however, the precise परिभाषा in human anatomy refers only to the section of the lower limb extending from the knee to the ankle.
Legs are used for standing, चलना, कूद, कार्यशील, kicking, और समान क्रियाएँ, और constitute a significant portion of a person 's mass.
This article is about the demographic features of the जनसांख्यिकी of तुर्कों, सहित जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व, नस्ल, शिक्षा स्तर, स्वास्थ्य of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
As of 2010, the population of Turkey is estimated to be 73.7 million with a विकास रेट of 1.21 % प्रति annum ( 2009 figure ).
The population is relatively young with 26.6 % गिरना in the 0-14 आयु कोष्ठक.
According to the OECD/World Bank population statistics in तुर्कों the जनसांख्यिकी विकास इससे 1990 to 2008 थी 16 million or 29 %.
1998 bmw 750iL
Buick roadmaster
A full-size car is a विपणन पद प्रयुक्त in उत्तर अमेरिका लिये an automobile larger than a mid-size car.
In the United राज्य, the epa उपयोग the पद `` विशाल car '' to denote full-size cars.
Joel Grey ( born April 11, 1932 ) is an American stage and screen कर्ता, सिंगर, और नर्तकी, ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिका as the निपुण of ceremonies in दोनो the stage and film adaptation of the Kander & Ebb musical Cabaret.
He has won the Academy Award, Tony पुरस्कार और सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार.
He also originated the role of George M. cohan in the musical जार्ज m !
in 1973, the जादूगर in the musical Wicked.
Grey also starred in the ब्रॉडवे revivals of anything goes as moonface मार्टिन, और Chicago as Amos Hart.
James Madison, Jr. ( March 16, 1751 ( O.S. कूच 5 ) – जून 28, 1836 ) थी an अमरीकी statesman और राजनैतिक theorist, the चौथी अध्यक्ष of the United States ( 1809–1817 ).
He is hailed as the “Father of the Constitution” for being इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in the drafting of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान और as the कुंजी चैंपियन and author of the United States Bill of Rights.
He served as a politician much of उसके वयस्क जीवन.
After the संविधान था महरूम drafted, मैडिसन became one of the leaders in the movement to ratify it.
उसके सहयोग साथ सिकंदर हैमिल्टन और John Jay produced the Federalist Papers ( 1788 ).
Circulated only in New York at the time, they होता बाद be माना among the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण polemics in support of the Constitution.
He was also a delegate to the Virginia constitutional ratifying convention, और थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल to the कामयाब अनुसमर्थन प्रयत्न in Virginia.
Like most of his contemporaries, मैडिसन बदला उसके राजनैतिक views during his life.
During the drafting and ratification of the constitution, he favored a दमदार नेशनल सरकारी, though later he grew to favor stronger state governments, before settling between the two extremes late in his life.
In 1789, Madison became a नेता in the नई हाउस of प्रतिनिधि, drafting many basic laws.
He is notable for drafting the first ten amendments to the संविधान, और यूँ is ज्ञात as the `` पिता of the विधेयक of Rights ``.
Madison worked closely साथ अध्यक्ष जार्ज वॉशिंगटन to organize the new federal government.
Breaking with हैमिल्टन और कया became the federalist पार्टी in 1791, मैडिसन और थामस जेफरसन organized what they called the Republican Party ( later called by historians the Democratic-Republican Party )
As Jefferson’s Secretary of State ( 1801–1809 ), मैडिसन पर्यवेक्षित the louisiana खरीदें, जिससे doubled the nation’s size.
After his election to the प्रेसिडेंसी, he presided over नवीनीकृत समृद्धि लिये अनेक years.
As अध्यक्ष ( 1809–17 ), बाद the विफलता of राजनयिक protests and a trade embargo against Great Britain, he led the nation into the War of 1812.
He थी responding to अंग्रेजों encroachments on अमरीकी सम्मान और अधिकारों ; in जोड, he चाही to समाप्त the influence of the British among their Indian allies, whose resistance blocked United States settlement in the Midwest around the Great Lakes.
Madison found the war to be an administrative nightmare, as the United States had neither a दमदार फौज nor वित्तीय प्रणाली ; as a परिणाम, he afterward समर्थित a stronger नेशनल सरकारी और a दमदार military, as well as the national bank, which he had long opposed.
Like other Virginia statesmen in the slave society, he was a slaveholder who inherited his plantation known as montpelier, और स्वामित्व सैंकड़ों of स्लेव दौरान his lifetime to cultivate tobacco and other crops.
Madison supported the three-fifths compromise that allowed three-fifths of the enumerated जनसांख्यिकी of स्लेव to be counted for representation.
`` Roman 's Revenge '' is a सोंग performed by अमरीकी rapper निकी minaj इससे उसके डेब्यू स्टुडियो album Pink Friday.
It was written by Minaj and rapper एमिनेम, जो is भी प्रदर्शित in the सोंग, और थी उत्पादित by Swizz Beatz.
It थी released exclusively on अक्तूबर 30, 2010 through the US iTunes Store, as a promotional release preceding the album 's release.
The song initiated a feud between Lil ' Kim and Minaj, where many people felt the song was directed at लील ' किम और regarded around उसके जज्बात towards minaj 's वृद्धि to कीर्ति.
the सोंग सन्दर्भ minaj 's alter-ego, Roman Zolanski, and Eminem 's alter-ego, Slim Shady.
The song garnered very positive reviews from आलोचकों, सबसे of जिससे praised the सोंग as a stand-out track on the album.
An official remix featuring Minaj 's mentor, लील वेन, थी released to the us itunes स्टोर on January 19, 2011.
The इंस्ट्रूमेंटल थी प्रयुक्त in the सोंग 'firing स्क्वाड ' by Horseshoe G.A.N.G.
हाइड्रोलिक द्रव being poured.
Hydraulic fluids, also called hydraulic liquids, हैं the मीडियम by जिससे शक्ति is transferred in हाइड्रोलिक मशीनरी.
Common hydraulic fluids हैं आधारित on खनिज आयल or water.
Examples of equipment that might use hydraulic fluids include excavators and backhoes, हाइड्रोलिक brakes, शक्ति परिचालन प्रणालियों, ट्रांसमिशन, कचरा trucks, aircraft flight control systems, lifts, and industrial machinery.
Hydraulic systems like the ones उल्लेखित ऊपर होगा कार्य सबसे efficiently if the हाइड्रोलिक fluid used has no compressibility
Mahindra ट्रैक्टर
Mahindra Tractors, the farm equipment division of Mahindra & Mahindra, builds और स्त्रोत tractors कि हैं बेची विश्वव्यापी across six continents.
Mahindra is भी among the top three tractor manufacturers in the world.
Mahindra has a huge consumer base in India, China and अमेरिका और a growing आधार in Australia.
The company builds more tractors in इण्डिया than कोई अन्य निर्माता, और रै the क्षमता to build 150,000 tractors a year.
In 1963, M & M formed a संयुक्त venture साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the Mahindra nameplate for the Indian market.
Armed with engineering, tooling and निर्माण know-how gained इससे इस संबंध, M & M developed its first tractor, the B-275.
Mahindra Tractors with sales of nearly 85,000 units annually is एक of the largest ट्रैक्टर कंपनियाँ in the संसार, और is क्रमांक एक in बिक्री in इण्डिया - the largest tractor market in the world.
To expand into the growing tractor market in China, महिंद्रा acquired बहुमत हिस्सेदारी in jiangling.
To raise awareness about Mahindra in the us, महिंद्रा यूएसए घोषित इसके नई प्रायोजन in the nascar देशभर श्रेणी साथ r3 मोटरस्पोर्ट, जिससे is participating with a # 23 Mahindra Tractors Chevrolet.
the car होगा be चलित by रॉबर्ट Richardson, Jr. Mahindra USA, Inc. announced a 17-race primary and 18-race associate sponsorship for the 2009 NASCAR Nationwide Series.
With this sponsorship, महिंद्रा थी the पहला भारतीय कम्पनी to प्रायोजक a car in NASCAR.
In 2008, Mahindra was a sponsor of the McDonald मोटरस्पोर्ट टोली जिससे भागा the # 81 car in the NASCAR Nationwide Series.
The POWER6 is a microprocessor विकसित by ibm कि implemented the Power ISA v.2.03.
When it became available in systems in 2007, it succeeded the शक्ति5+ as ibm 's फ्लैगशिप Power microprocessor.
It is part of the eCLipz project, said to have a लक्ष्य of converging ibm 's सर्वर hardware where practical ( hence `` ipz '' in the acronym : iSeries, pSeries, and zSeries ).
The American middle class is a social class in the संयुक्त राज्य.
While the concept is typically ambiguous in popular opinion and common language उपयोग, समकालीन सोशल वैज्ञानिकों have put आगे अनेक, अधिक or less congruent, theories on the American middle class.
Depending on class model used, the middle क्लास may constitute anywhere इससे 25 % to 66 % of households.
एक of the पहला प्रमुख अध्ययन of the मध्य क्लास in अमेरिका थी श्वेत कॉलर : The American Middle Classes, published in 1951 by sociologist C. Wright Wright_Mills Mills Wright_Mills.
Later sociologists such as Dennis गिल्बर्ट of हैमिल्टन कॉलेज commonly divide the middle class into two sub-groups.
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the अपर or पेशेवर middle class consisting of highly educated, salaried professionals and managers.
Constituting roughly one third of households is the निम्नतर मध्य क्लास consisting ज़्यादातर of semi-professionals, skilled कारीगरों और lower-level management.
Middle-class persons commonly have a comfortable standard of living, significant आर्थिक सुरक्षा, considerable कार्य स्वायत्तता और rely on उनके विशेषज्ञता to sustain themselves.
सदस्यों of the मध्य क्लास belong to diverse groups which overlap with each other.
Overall, middle-class व्यक्तियों, विशेषकर upper-middle-class individuals, हैं characterized by conceptualizing, creating and consulting.
Thus, कॉलेज शिक्षा is एक of the प्रमुख indicators of middle-class status.
Largely attributed to the nature of middle-class occupations, middle class values tend to emphasize स्वतंत्रता, adherence to मूलभूत मानकों, valuing नवीनता और respecting non-conformity.
Politically more active than other demographics, college educated मध्य क्लास पेशेवर हैं विभाजित between the दो प्रमुख पार्टियों.
Income varies considerably इससे निकट the national median to well in excess of $ 100,000.
Household income figures, however, do not always reflect class status and standard of जीना, as वे हैं largely बहकावे by the क्रमांक of आय earners और असफल to recognize household size.
It is therefore possible for a large, dual-earner, lower middle class household to out-earn a छोटी, one-earner, अपर middle class household.
The middle classes are very influential, as वे encompass the बहुमत of मतदाता, लेखक, शिक्षक, journalists, and editors.
Most societal trends in the us originate भीतर the मध्य classes.
The following is a सूची of शनिवार रात्रि सजीव डाल members, past and present.
The cast members of Saturday Night Live were originally referred to as the `` नहीं तैयार लिये प्रधान समय Players ''.
The original cast ( l to r ) : Laraine Newman, John Belushi, Jane कर्टिन, gilda radner, डान aykroyd, garrett मॉरिस, और चेवी Chase
Ruins from the 1906 San फ्रांसिस्को भूकंप, remembered as एक of the worst प्राकृतिक disasters in United States history
A disaster is a natural or man-made ( or technological ) जोखिम resulting in an इवेंट of substantial extent causing significant physical damage or destruction, loss of life, or drastic change to the environment.
A विपत्ति can be ostensively पारिभाषित as कोई tragic इवेंट stemming from events such as earthquakes, floods, catastrophic accidents, fires, or explosions.
It is a घटना कि can कारण क्षति to जीवन और प्रॉपर्टी और नष्ट the economic, social and cultural life of people.
In contemporary academia, आपदाओं हैं देखी as the consequence of inappropriately managed risk.
These risks are the product of a संयोजन of दोनो hazard/s और vulnerability.
Hazards that strike in areas with कम vulnerability होगा never become आपदाओं, as is the case in uninhabited regions.
Developing countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 percent of all deaths caused by आपदाओं occur in विकासशील देशों, और नुकसान due to प्राकृतिक आपदाओं हैं 20 टाइम्स वृहद ( as a percentage of GDP ) in developing countries than in industrialized countries.
In कम्प्यूटिंग, booting ( भी ज्ञात as booting up ) is the आरंभिक नियत of परिचालन कि a computer system performs when electrical power to the CPU is switched on.
The process begins when a computer is turned on लिये the पहला समय or is re-energized बाद होने turned बंद, and ends when the computer is ready to perform its normal operations.
On modern general purpose computers, this can take tens of seconds and typically involves performing a power-on self-test, locating and initializing परिधीय डिवाइस, और तब ढूंढना, लदान और starting an operating system.
Many कंप्यूटर प्रणालियों भी allow ये परिचालन to be initiated by a तन्त्र कमांड without cycling power, in what is known as a soft reboot, though some of the initial operations might be skipped on a soft reboot.
A boot loader is a computer program that loads the main operating system or runtime environment लिये the कंप्यूटर बाद पूर्णता of the self-tests.
The computer term boot is short for bootstrap or बूटस्ट्रैप लोड और गर्भाशयी इससे the phrase to pull oneself up by one 's bootstraps.
The usage calls attention to the requirement that, if most software is loaded onto a computer by अन्य तन्त्र already कार्यशील on the कंप्यूटर, कुछ यांत्रिकी जरूर मौजूद to load initial software onto the computer.
Early computers used a किस्में of ad-hoc विधि to मिलेंगी a छोटी program into memory to solve this problem.
The आविष्कार of एकीकृत सर्किट read-only मेमोरी ( rom ) of विभिन्न प्रकार हल इस विरोधाभास by allowing कंप्यूटर to be shipped with a start up program that could not be erased.
Growth in the capacity of ROM has allowed ever more विस्तृत प्रारंभ up प्रक्रियाओं to be implemented.
On general purpose computers, the boot process begins साथ the निष्पादन of an आरंभिक कार्यक्रम भंडारित in बूट roms or read in another fashion.
In some older computers, the initial कार्यक्रम might have महरूम the अनुप्रयोग to चलाएं, if no ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली was used, or the operating system.
In other computers, the initial program is a boot loader that may then load into random-access memory ( RAM ), from nonvolatile secondary storage ( such as a hard disk drive ) or, in some older computers, from a medium such as punched cards, punched tape, or चुम्बकीय टेप in पुरानी कंप्यूटर, the शब्दकोष कोड of an ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली or runtime पर्यावरण और तब चलाएँ it.
If the boot loader is limited in its size and capabilities, it may, बजाय, लोड a larger और अधिक सक्षम द्वितीयक बूट लोडर, जिससे होता तब लोड the ऑपरेटिंग system or runtime environment.
Some embedded systems do not require a noticeable boot sequence to शुरू कामकाज और जब turned on may बस चलाएं operational programs that are stored in ROM.
Firebird is an open source SQL रिलेशनल डेटाबेस प्रबन्धन प्रणाली कि रनों on लिनक्स, Windows, and a variety of Unix.
The database forked इससे borland 's खोलें सोर्स संस्करण of interbase in 2000, but since Firebird 1.5 the code has been largely rewritten.
Outsourcing is the contracting out of an internal कारोबार प्रक्रम to a third-party संगठन.
The practice of contracting a business process आउट to a तीसरा पार्टी बल्कि than स्टॉफ it internally is आम in the modern economy.
The term `` outsourcing '' became popular in the संयुक्त राज्य निकट the फेरे of the 21st सदी.
Outsourcing sometimes involves transferring कर्मचारी और एसेट इससे एक firm to another, but not always.
The definition of outsourcing includes both foreign and domestic contracting, and sometimes includes offshoring, जिससे अर्थात् relocating a कारोबार फलन to another country.
Financial savings from lower अंतरराष्ट्रीय मजदूर दरों is a big motivation for outsourcing/offshoring.
The विपरीत of आउटसोर्सिंग is पुकारा insourcing, जिससे entails bringing प्रक्रियाओं संभाला by third-party firms in-house, and is sometimes accomplished via vertical integration.
However, a business can provide a contract service to another कारोबार बगैर necessarily insourcing that business process.
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating retrovirus ) that causes acquired immunodeficiency सिंड्रोम ( एड्स ), a कंडीशन in इंसानो in जिससे प्रगतिशील विफलता of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive.
संक्रमण साथ hiv occurs by the ट्रांसफ़र of रक्त, semen, vaginal fluid, pre-ejaculate, or breast milk.
भीतर ये bodily fluids, hiv is उपस्थित as दोनो फ़्री virus particles and virus within infected immune cells.
hiv infects vital कोशिकाएं in the इंसान प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली ऐसे as हेल्पर T cells ( specifically CD4 + T cells ), macrophages, and dendritic cells.
HIV infection leads to low levels of CD4+ T cells through a number of mechanisms including : apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells, direct वाइरल हत्या of संक्रमित कोशिकाएं, और हत्या of संक्रमित cd4+ t कोशिकाएं by cd8 cytotoxic lymphocytes that recognize infected cells.
When CD4+ T cell numbers decline below a नाजुक स्तर, cell-mediated प्रतिरक्षण is खोया, और the देह becomes progressively more susceptible to opportunistic infections.
The firepole in a आग station in Toronto
A fireman 's pole ( also called a स्लाइडिंग ध्रुव or firepole ) is a लकड़ी ध्रुव or a मेटल ट्यूब or पाइप संस्थापित between floors in आग स्टेशन, allowing firefighters responding to an alarm to quickly descend to the ground floor faster than by using a standard staircase.
The device was invented in the 1870s by दाउद kenyon, in शिकागो, इलिनोइस, हालांकि it is प्रायः incorrectly credited to the Boston Fire Department.
Mary Poppins is the title अक्षर of a series of children 's books written by P. L. Travers.
Throughout the Mary Poppins series, which lasted इससे 1934 to 1988, मरियम shepard थी the इलस्ट्रेटर और acted as a second author.
The books centre on a जादुई अंग्रेज़ी नैनी, Mary Poppins.
She is blown by the East wind to Number Seventeen Cherry Tree Lane, लंदन, और into the बैंको ' household to care for their children.
Encounters साथ चिमनी sweeps, दुकानदारों और विभिन्न adventures follow until Mary Poppins abruptly leaves, i.e., `` pops-out ''.
the adventures लो प्लेस over a total of eight books.
However, तभी the पहला तीन किताबे feature Mary Poppins arriving and leaving.
The later five books recount previously unrecorded adventures इससे उसके असली three visits.
As P. L. Travers explains in her introduction to Mary poppins in the पार्क, `` वो can नहीं forever arrive and depart. ''
The books were adapted in 1964 into a musical डिज़्नी फिल्मी अभिनीत जूली एंड्रयूज and Dick Van Dyke.
In 2004, डिज़्नी नाट्य उत्पादित a स्टेज musical adaptation in the West End theatre.
the स्टेज musical थी transferred to ब्रॉडवे in 2006 where it ran until its closing on March 3, 2013.
it रै महरूम अत्यधिक कामयाब, as was the 1964 film.
The Last Song is a 2010 American coming of आयु टीन रोमांटिक नाटक फिल्मी विकसित alongside Nicholas Sparks ' novel by the same name.
The film was directed by Julie Anne रॉबिन्सन in उसके विशेषता फिल्मी directorial डेब्यू और co-written by Sparks and Jeff Van Wie.
The Last Song stars Miley Cyrus, Liam Hemsworth, and Greg Kinnear and follows a troubled teenager as she reconnects साथ उसके estranged पिता और जलप्रपात in प्रेम दौरान a गर्मियाँ in a शांत दक्षिणी United States beach town.
The film is distributed by touchstone तस्वीरें.
स्पार्क्स थी approached to लिखें दोनो the फिल्मी 's screenplay and the novel.
Sparks completed the screenplay in January 2009, prior to the पूर्णता of the अनोखा, बनाना the पिछला सोंग उसके पहला स्क्रिप्ट to be optioned for film.
The setting, originally in North Carolina like the अनोखा, स्थानांतरित to जॉर्जिया बाद the राज्य था campaigned लिये महीने to मेजबान production.
Upon शुरूआत उत्पादन in tybee द्वीप, जॉर्जिया और आसपास Savannah, The Last Song became the first movie to be both shot and set in Tybee Island.
Filming lasted from June 15 to अगस्त 18, 2009 साथ much of it occurring on the island 's beach and pier.
The Last Song was originally scheduled for wide release on जनवरी 8, 2010, लकिन थी स्थगित to कूच 31, 2010.
लिखा simlish
simlish is a fictional भाषा प्रदर्शित in ea खेल ' Sim series of games.
It debuted in simcopter, और रै महरूम विशेषकर prominent in The Sims, The Sims 2 and The Sims 3.
The Sims development team निर्मित the अद्वितीय simlish भाषा by experimenting साथ fractured Ukrainian, French, Latin, Finnish, English, Fijian, Cebuano, and Tagalog.
Simlish can also be heard in SimCity 4, simcity समाजों और simcity 2013, लकिन far less frequently.
Civilized जीव in spore can भी be taught to speak Simlish.
It is also प्रदर्शित to an extent in firaxis खेल ' सिड Meier 's SimGolf.
Designer Will Wright was सचेत of the need लिये संवाद in the खेल, लकिन विचार कि using a रियल भाषा होता मेक it ध्वनि too दोहराए और होता also be too costly to hire translators for world languages.
Initially, inspired by the देशी अमरीकी कोड talkers of संसार युद्ध ii, सीम निर्माता होगा राइट और भाषा विशेषज्ञ मार्क gimbel suggested experimenting with the Navajo language to create Simlish.
However, they ultimately decided that Simlish worked best as a `` language '' made up of gibberish words that could n't be अनूदित, so कि इसके अर्थ होता be बाएँ खोलें to the कल्पना of the player.
Wright later commented that using `` nonsense भाषा '' turned आउट to be the सही विकास चुनाव, as लोगों यहूद सक्षम of imagining it अधिक realistically than a कंप्यूटर could simulate a real one.
The actual sound of Simlish was created improvisationally by आवाज़ अभिनेताओं स्टीफन kearin और gerri lawlor.
An example of Ultrasonic Testing ( UT ) on blade roots of a V2500 iae वायुयान इंजन.
Step 1 : The UT probe is लगाई on the रूट of the ब्लेड to be inspected साथ the सहायता of a special borescope tool ( video probe ).
कदम 2 : यंत्र settings are input.
Step 3 : The probe is scanned over the ब्लेड root.
In this case, an indication ( peak in the data ) through the रेड लकीर ( or फाटक ) indicates a शुभ ब्लेड ; an indication to the left of that range indicates a crack.
principle of ultrasonic testing.
बाएँ : a जांच भेजना a ध्वनि वेव into a test material.
There are two indications, one from the initial पल्स of the जांच, और the दूसरी due to the वापस वॉल echo.
सही : a defect creates a तीसरा indication और simultaneously reduces the amplitude of the back wall indication.
The depth of the defect is संकल्पित by the अनुपात D/E
In ultrasonic testing ( UT ), very short ultrasonic pulse-waves with center frequencies ranging from 0.1-15 MHz और occasionally up to 50 mhz हैं शुभारम्भ into सामग्री to detect आतंरिक खामियां or to characterize materials.
A common example is ultrasonic thickness measurement, which परीक्षण the मोटाई of the परीक्षण ऑब्जेक्ट, लिये उदाहरण, to मॉनिटर pipework corrosion.
Ultrasonic testing is often performed on steel and other metals and alloys, though it can भी be प्रयुक्त on कंक्रीट, लकडी और composites, albeit with less resolution.
It is a form of non-destructive testing used in अनेक उद्योग सहित aerospace, automotive and other transportation sectors.
The vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ), also called ductus deferens ( Latin : `` carrying-away vessel '' ; plural : ductus deferentes ), is भाग of the पुरूष anatomy of अनेक vertebrates ; वे हस्तांतरण शुक्राणु इससे the epididymis in पुट of ejaculation.
Vascular ischemia of the toes साथ characteristic cyanosis.
In medicine, ischemia, also spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia, ( ; from Greek language ισχαιμία, ischaimía ; isch- root denoting a restriction or thinning or to make or grow thin/lean, haema रक्त ) is a प्रतिबंध in रक्त सप्लाई to ऊतकों, causing a shortage of ऑक्सीजन और ग्लूकोज needed लिये सेल्यूलर चयापचय ( to रखना ऊतक जिंदा ).
Ischemia is generally caused by problems साथ रक्त बरतन, साथ resultant damage to or dysfunction of tissue.
it भी अर्थात् लोकल रक्ताल्पता in a दिए भाग of a देह sometimes resulting from congestion ( such as vasoconstriction, thrombosis or embolism ).
bas सिंड्रोम ( ds ) or bas 's सिंड्रोम, भी ज्ञात as trisomy 21, is a जेनेटिक विकार caused by the presence of all or part of a third copy of chromosome 21.
Down syndrome is the सबसे आम chromosome तबदीली in humans.
It is typically संबद्ध साथ a विलंब in संज्ञानात्मक क्षमता ( दिमागी retardation, or MR ) and physical growth, and a particular set of facial characteristics.
The average IQ of young adults with Down syndrome is around 50, whereas यंग वयस्कों बगैर the कंडीशन typically have an IQ of 100.
( MR रै historically महरूम पारिभाषित as an IQ below 70. )
A large proportion of individuals साथ bas सिंड्रोम have a severe degree of intellectual disability.
Down syndrome is नामित बाद जॉन langdon bas, the अंग्रेजों चिकित्सक who described the syndrome in 1866.
The condition was clinically वर्णित पहले by जां etienne dominique Esquirol in 1838 and Edouard Seguin in 1844.
Down syndrome was पहचाना as a chromosome 21 trisomy by dr. Jérôme Lejeune in 1959.
Down syndrome can be पहचाना in a baby at जनम or पहले जनम by prenatal screening.
pregnancies साथ इस निदान are often terminated.
The सीडीसी estimates कि परिचय एक of प्रत्येक 691 शिशु born in the United States each year is born with Down syndrome.
Many children साथ bas सिंड्रोम हैं शिक्षित in नियमित स्कूल वर्ग जबकि अन्य require specialised educational facilities.
Some children ग्रैजुएट इससे ऊँची स्कूल, और, in the us, वहीँ हैं increasing opportunities for participating in post-secondary education.
शिक्षा और उचित परवाह रै been shown to improve quality of life significantly.
Many adults with Down Syndrome are able to work at paid employment in the community, while अन्य आवश्यकता a अधिक sheltered कार्य पर्यावरण.
Hot flashes ( also known as hot flushes, or night sweats if they happen at रात्रि ) हैं a लक्षण जिससे may have अनेक अन्य कल्याणकारी, लकिन जिससे is प्रायः caused by the बदलना हार्मोन स्तर कि are characteristic of menopause.
The servicemen 's readjustment अधिनियम of 1944 ( p.l. 78-346, 58 स्टेट. 284m ), ज्ञात informally as the g.i. विधेयक, थी a विधि कि provided a range of benefits for returning World War II veterans ( commonly referred to as G.I.s ).
Benefits included low-cost mortgages, low-interest loans to start a कारोबार or फार्म, नकदी भुगतान of ट्यूशन और जीना खर्च to attend कॉलेज, ऊँची स्कूल or vocational education, as well as one year of unemployment compensation.
It was available to every veteran जो था महरूम on क्रियाशील ड्यूटी दौरान the युद्ध सालो लिये at तनिक नब्बे दिनों and had not been dishonorably discharged ; combat was not required.
By the end of the program in 1956, roughly 2.2 लाख दिग्गजों था प्रयुक्त the g.i. विधेयक शिक्षा लाभ in अनुक्रम to attend कॉलेजों or विश्वविद्यालयों, और an additional 6.6 million used these benefits for some kind of training program.
Since the असली 1944 विधि, the पद रै आइये to शामिल अन्य दिग्गज benefit programs created to assist veterans of subsequent wars as well as peacetime service.
Historians and economists consider the G.I. Bill a major political success—especially in contrast to the treatments of World युद्ध i veterans—and a प्रमुख योगदान to अमेरिका 's भण्डार of इंसान पूंजी कि sped long-term आर्थिक growth.
the वाटरगेट कांड थी a राजनैतिक कांड कि occurred in the संयुक्त राज्य in the 1970s as a result of the June 17, 1972 break-in at the Democratic National Committee headquarters at the Watergate office complex in Washington, D.C., and the Nixon administration 's attempted cover-up of its involvement.
The scandal eventually led to the resignation of Richard Nixon, the President of the संयुक्त राज्य, on अगस्त 9, 1974 — the तभी इस्तीफा of a U.S. President.
The scandal also resulted in the indictment, trial, conviction, और incarceration of forty-three व्यक्तियों, दर्जनों of जिसको यहूद निक्सन 's top administration officials.
The affair began with the arrest of पाँच मेन लिये तोड़कर और प्रवेश into the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल कमेटी ( dnc ) मुख्यालय at the Watergate complex on June 17, 1972.
The Federal ब्यूरो of छानबीन ( एफबीआई ) कनेक्ट नकदी मिला on the burglars to a slush निधि प्रयुक्त by the कमेटी लिये the re-election of the अध्यक्ष, the official organization of Nixon 's campaign.
In July 1973, as evidence mounted against the अध्यक्ष 's स्टाफ, सहित गवाही provided by पूर्व स्टाफ सदस्यों in an छानबीन conducted by the सीनेट वाटरगेट Committee, it was revealed that President Nixon had a tape-recording system in his offices and he had recorded many conversations.
Recordings from these tapes implicated the अध्यक्ष, revealing he था attempted to कवर up the questionable ( and illegal ) goings-on that had taken place during his administration, both before and after the break-in.
After a protracted series of bitter court battles, the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the अध्यक्ष था to हाथ over the टेपों to सरकारी जांचकर्ताओं ; he ultimately complied.
Facing near-certain महाभियोग in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और a strong possibility of a conviction in the Senate, Nixon resigned the presidency on August 9, 1974.
His successor, Gerald घाट, तब जारी a pardon to him.
Elizabeth Imogene Webber ( formerly lansing और स्पेंसर ) is a fictional अक्षर on the ABC Daytime soap opera General Hospital.
एलिज़ाबेथ is the पोती of dr. स्टीव हार्डी ( जॉन beradino ), one of the originating core characters of the series.
Rebecca Herbst originated the character on August 1, 1997 और रै महरूम the तभी अनुबंध अभिनेत्री to play the role.
Elizabeth is part of two supercouple pairings, Lucky स्पेंसर और एलिज़ाबेथ webber और जेसन मॉर्गन और Elizabeth Webber.
The United States presidency of रोनाल्ड reagan, भी ज्ञात as the reagan प्रशासन, थी a रिपब्लिकन प्रशासन headed by Ronald Reagan from January 20, 1981, to January 20, 1989.
Domestically, the administration favored reducing government कार्यक्रम और introduced the largest across-the-board tax cuts in American history.
The economic policies enacted in 1981, known as `` Reaganomics ``, were an उदाहरण of supply-side अर्थशास्त्र.
Reagan aimed to प्रोत्साहित उद्यमिता और सीमा the विकास of सोशल बिता, as खूब as the reduction of regulation and inflation.
Economic growth saw a दमदार रिकवरी in the 1980s, helping reagan to win a landslide re-election.
The national debt increased significantly, however.
Regarding foreign नीति, the प्रशासन थी steadfastly anti-communist, कॉलिंग the Soviet Union an `` evil empire `` and ending 1970s détente.
Reagan accelerated the massive buildup of the military started by his predecessor, including an आक्रमण of हरा, the पहला प्रमुख विदेशी कार्रवाई by u.S. सैनिकों चूंकि the समाप्त of the Vietnam War.
The `` Reagan Doctrine `` controversially granted aid to paramilitary forces seeking to फेकने कम्युनिस्ट सरकारें, विशेषकर in war-torn सेंट्रल अमेरिका और Afghanistan.
Reagan also promoted new technologies ऐसे as मिसाइल रक्षा प्रणालियों in अनुक्रम to confront the Soviets and their allies.
in कूटनीति, reagan forged a दमदार गठबंधन साथ uk प्रधान मंत्री मार्गरेट थैचर, और he मिले साथ सोवियत General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev four times, aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nuclear arsenals.
Reagan 's presidency has महरूम termed the `` reagan क्रान्ति '', or the आयु of reagan in मान्यता of the राजनैतिक realignment both within and beyond the U.S. in favor of his brand of conservatism and his faith in free markets.
The Reagan administration worked toward the पतन of सोवियत साम्यवादी, और it किया पतन बस as he left office.
Victory in the Cold War led to a unipolar संसार साथ the u.S. as the संसार 's sole superpower.
While the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed several Reagan aides during his second term, Reagan himself left office with a 63 प्रतिशत स्वीकृति दरजा, एक of the उच्चतर स्वीकृति दरजा of departing presidents.
After years of unstinting praise from the right, and unrelenting criticism from the left, historian David Henry finds that by 2009 a सर्वसम्मति था उभरा among विद्वानों कि reagan revived कोसा और turned the स्वदेश to the सही by demonstrating a `` pragmatic कोसा '' कि प्रचारित ideology within the constraints imposed by the divided political system.
Furthermore, says Henry, the consensus viewpoint agrees कि he revived आस्था in the प्रेसिडेंसी और अमरीकी self-confidence, and contributed critically to ending the Cold War.
crude मौत रेट by country ( 2006 ).
Mortality rate is a measure of the number of deaths ( in सामान्य, or due to a विशिष्ट कारण ) in a population.
Scaled to the आकार of कि जनसांख्यिकी, प्रति unit of time.
Mortality rate is typically expressed in इकाई of मौतों प्रति 1000 individuals प्रति साल ; यूँ, a मृत्यु रेट of 9.5 ( आउट of 1000 ) in a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,000 होता mean 9.5 deaths per year in that entire population, or 0.95 % out of the total.
It is distinct from morbidity rate, which refers to the क्रमांक of individuals in ग़रीब स्वास्थ्य दौरान a दिए समय काल ( the व्यापकता rate ) or the number of newly appearing cases of the disease per unit of time ( incidence rate ).
The term `` mortality `` is also sometimes inappropriately used to refer to the number of deaths among a नियत of diagnosed हॉस्पिटल मामले लिये a बीमारी or चोट, बल्कि than लिये the सामान्य जनसांख्यिकी of a country or ethnic group.
This disease mortality statistic is more precisely referred to as `` मामला fatality रेट `` ( cfr ).
एक distinguishes:
The crude death rate, the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों प्रति साल per 1000 people.
the crude death rate for the whole world is about 8.37 per 1000 per साल according to the वर्तमान सीआईए संसार factbook.
The perinatal mortality rate, the योग of neonatal मौतों और fetal मौतों ( stillbirths ) per 1000 births.
The maternal mortality ratio, the number of मातृ मौतों प्रति 100,000 live births in same time period.
The maternal mortality rate, the number of maternal deaths per 1,000 महिलाओं of reproductive आयु in the जनसांख्यिकी ( generally पारिभाषित as 15–44 years of age ).
The शिशु मृत्यु रेट, the क्रमांक of मौतों of children less than 1 year old per 1000 live births.
The child mortality rate, the number of मौतों of children कम than 5 सालो बूढ़ा प्रति 1000 सजीव births.
The standardised mortality ratio ( SMR ) - This represents a proportional तुलना to the संख्याएँ of मौतों कि होता have महरूम अपेक्षित if the जनसांख्यिकी had been of a standard composition in terms of age, gender, etc.
The age-specific mortality rate ( ASMR ) - This refers to the total क्रमांक of मौतों प्रति साल प्रति 1000 लोगों of a दिए आयु ( e.g. आयु 62 last birthday ).
In regard to the or failure of चिकित्सा उपचार or प्रक्रियाओं, one would also distinguish:
The early mortality rate, the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों in the जल्दी चरण of an जारी उपचार, or in the period immediately following an treatment.
The late mortality rate, the total number of deaths in the लेट चरण of an जारी उपचार, or a significant लंबाई of समय बाद an अधि treatment.
Note that the crude death rate as defined above and लागू to a पूरे जनसांख्यिकी can दे a भ्रामक छाप.
The crude मौत रेट depends on the आयु ( और लिंग ) specific mortality rates and the age ( and gender ) distribution of the population.
The number of deaths per 1000 people can be higher for विकसित राष्ट्र than in less-developed देशों, despite जीवन प्रत्याशा होने उच्चतर in विकसित countries due to standards of health being better.
This happens because developed countries typically have a completely different population age वितरण, साथ a much उच्चतर proportion of पुरानी लोगों, due to दोनो निम्नतर हाल जनम दरों और निम्नतर मृत्यु rates.
A more complete picture of mortality is given by a जीवन तालिका जिससे shows the मृत्यु रेट separately for each age.
A life table is necessary to दे a शुभ अनुमान of life expectancy.
An otoacoustic emission ( OAE ) is a sound which is उत्पन्न इससे भीतर the inner ear.
Having been predicted by थामस सुनहरा in 1948, इसके अस्तित्व थी पहला demonstrated experimentally by दाउद kemp in 1978 और otoacoustic emissions have since been shown to arise by a number of different cellular mechanisms within the inner ear.
Studies have shown that OAEs disappear after the inner ear has been क्षतिग्रस्त, so oaes हैं प्रायः प्रयुक्त in the प्रयोगशाला और the क्लिनिक as a measure of inner ear health.
broadly बोलना, वहीँ हैं दो प्रकार of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( soaes ), जिससे can occur बगैर external stimulation, and evoked otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs ), which require an evoking stimulus.
Hurricane Tomas was the उन्नीसवीं नामित तूफ़ान और twelfth hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season.
Tomas developed from a tropical wave ईस्ट of the windward आइलैंड्स on अक्तूबर 29.
Quickly intensifying into a hurricane, it स्थानांतरित through the windward आइलैंड्स and passed very near Saint Lucia.
After reaching Category 2 status on the Saffir-Simpson scale, Tomas जल्दी weakened to a तीव्र तूफ़ान in the सेंट्रल caribbean समुद्र, due to strong wind shear and dry air.
Tomas later regained hurricane औकात as it reorganized निकट the windward ड्योढ़ी.
Throughout the hurricane 's पाथ, 71 लोगों हैं ज्ञात to have महरूम killed, 14 of whom were in Saint Lucia.
Monetary नुकसान throughout the windward आइलैंड्स यहूद अनुमानित at US $ 588 million, mainly in Saint Lucia.
In the wake of the storm in Haiti, बाढ़ intensified an जारी हैजा outbreak indirectly causing more fatalities.
According to a report released in December 2010, 55 people यहूद मारे in क्यूबा और hispanola, हालांकि the वितरण of ये fatalities are unknown.
Overall damage इससे the तूफ़ान थी at तनिक $ 741 million.
Victoria Jackson ( born August 2, 1959 ) is an American comedian, actress, satirist, singer and internet ब्लॉगर बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a डाल सदस्य of the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न स्केच कॉमेडी श्रेणी शनिवार रात्रि सजीव ( एसएनएल ) इससे 1986 to 1992.
She has received attention as a vocal आलोचक of अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा, और is an क्रियाशील भागीदार in the Tea Party movement.
Postmodern literature is साहित्य characterized by भारी रिलायंस on तकनीकों जैसे fragmentation, विरोधाभास, और questionable narrators, और is प्रायः ( हालांकि नहीं exclusively ) defined as a style or trend which emerged in the post–World War II era.
Postmodern works are seen as a reaction against आत्मज्ञान सोच और modernist approaches to साहित्य.
Postmodern literature, जैसे postmodernism as a पूरे, tends to resist परिभाषा or classification as a `` movement ''.
Indeed, the convergence of postmodern literature with various modes of critical theory, particularly reader-response and deconstructionist approaches, and the subversions of the अव्यक्त अनुबंध between लेखक, टेक्स्ट और रीडर by जिससे इसके works हैं प्रायः characterised, have led to pre-modern fictions ऐसे as cervantes ' डॉन quixote ( 1605,1615 ) और laurence sterne 's eighteenth-century satire Tristram Shandy being retrospectively inducted into the fold.
While there is little consensus on the precise characteristics, scope, and महत्व of postmodern साहित्य, as is प्रायः the मामला साथ कलाकारी आंदोलनों, postmodern साहित्य is commonly पारिभाषित in relation to a precursor.
लिये उदाहरण, a postmodern साहित्यिक कार्य tends नहीं to conclude साथ the neatly tied-up ending as is often found in modernist literature, but often parodies it.
Postmodern authors tend to celebrate मौका over शिल्प, और further employ metafiction to undermine the writer 's authority.
Another characteristic of postmodern literature is the questioning of distinctions between ऊँची और कम संस्कृति through the उपयोग of pastiche, the संयोजन of विषय और जाति नहीं previously deemed fit for literature.
Enigma is an electronic musical project founded in जर्मनी by माइकल cretu, दाउद fairstein और फ़्रैंक पीटरसन in 1990.
The romanian-born cretu conceived the पहेली प्रोजेक्ट जबकि working in जर्मनी, लकिन आधारित उसके रिकॉर्डिंग स्टुडियो a.r.t. studios in ibiza, स्पेन, from the early 1990s until May 2009, where he has recorded all of Enigma 's studio releases to date.
Cretu is both the composer और the निर्माता of the project.
His former wife, pop singer Sandra, often provided vocals on पहेली tracks.
Jens Gad co-arranged and निभाई गिटार on तीन of the पहेली albums.
Peter कॉर्नेलियस भी contributed to Enigma during the 1990s.
Seven studio albums have been produced अंतर्गत the नाम of the project.
Scooby-Doo is an American animated cartoon franchise, comprising अनेक एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न श्रेणी उत्पादित इससे 1969 to the उपस्थित day.
The असली श्रेणी, scooby-doo, जहाँ हैं You !
, थी निर्मित लिये hanna-barbera प्रोडक्शन्स by writers Joe Ruby and Ken Spears in 1969.
This Saturday morning cartoon series featured four teenagers— Fred Jones, daphne ब्लेक, velma dinkley, और norville `` shaggy '' रोजर्स — और उनके talking भूरा ग्रेट डेन श्वान नामित scooby-doo, जो solve रहस्यों involving माना अलौकिक जीव through a series of antics and missteps.
Following the कामयाबी of the असली श्रेणी, hanna-barbera और इसके successor warner ब्रदर्स. एनिमेशन have उत्पादित numerous follow-up और spin-off एनिमेटेड श्रेणी और अनेक सम्बन्धित works, सहित टेलीविज़न specials and telefilms, a line of direct-to-video films, and two Warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films.
Some versions of Scooby-Doo feature different variations on the दिखाएँ 's अलौकिक थीम, और शामिल वर्ण ऐसे as स्कूबी 's cousin Scooby-Dum and nephew Scrappy-Doo in addition to or instead of some of the original characters.
Scooby-Doo was originally ब्रॉडकास्ट on सीबीएस इससे 1969 to 1976, जब it moved to ABC.
एबीसी aired the दिखाएँ जबतक canceling it in 1986, और प्रस्तुत a spin-off featuring the characters as children, A Pup Named Scooby-Doo, from 1988 until 1991.
Two new scooby-doo श्रेणी, कया 's नई, Scooby-Doo ?
and Shaggy and Scooby-Doo Get a a Clue ! ] ], aired as भाग of बच्चे wb on the wb संजाल और इसके successor, the cw संजाल, from 2002 until 2008.
the सबसे हाल scooby-doo श्रेणी, Scooby-Doo !
Mystery Incorporated, aired on कार्टून संजाल इससे 2010 to 2013.
Repeats of the various Scooby-Doo series are broadcast अक्सर on कार्टून संजाल और boomerang in the संयुक्त राज्य and other countries.
Call of Duty is a first-person and third-person शूटर computer/ वीडियो खेल मताधिकार.
The series began on the PC, and later विस्तारित to consoles और handhelds.
Several spin-off खेल have भी महरूम released.
The earlier games in the series हैं नियत primarily in संसार युद्ध ii, इस शामिल : कॉल of ड्यूटी, Call of Duty 2, and Call of Duty 3.
Beginning with Modern Warfare, which is set in modern times, the श्रेणी रै shifted फ़ोकस दूर इससे संसार युद्ध II.
Call of ड्यूटी 4 : आधुनिक warfare ( released नवम्बर 2007 ) was followed by Call of Duty : World at War and Call of Duty : Modern Warfare 2.
Black Ops ( released November 2010 ) takes place in the ठंडा युद्ध, जबकि आधुनिक warfare 3 ( released नवम्बर 2011 ) takes place in the near-future setting.
Black Ops 2 ( released नवम्बर 13, 2012 ) takes place in the year 2025.
The Call of Duty games are published and owned by एक्टिविजन साथ aspyr मीडिया प्रकाशन it लिये ठहराना os x.
While the studio Infinity Ward primarily स्टिल develops उन्हें, treyarch रै भी विकसित अनेक of the शीर्षक साथ the release of the studios ' games interlaced with each other.
Some games have been developed by Gray Matter Interactive, Spark Unlimited, Amaze entertainment, n-space, विद्रोह developments, ideaworks खेल स्टुडियो, sledgehammer Games and nStigate Games.
The games use a variety of engines, including the id तकनीक 3, the treyarch ngl, और the iw 5.0.
Other products in the franchise include a line of action figures designed by Plan-B Toys, a कार्ड खेल निर्मित by अपर डेक, और a कॉमिक किताब mini-series प्रकाशित by WildStorm.
As of नवम्बर 11, 2011, the कॉल of ड्यूटी श्रेणी have बेची over 100 million copies.
As of March 31, 2012 there are 40 million monthly active खिलाड़ी आरपार सब of the कॉल of ड्यूटी शीर्षक, साथ 10 लाख कॉल of Duty : Elite users and 2 million paying annual members.
over 1.6 अरब घंटों of ऑनलाइन gameplay have महरूम logged Modern Warfare 3 since its 2011 release.
The estate tax in the United States is a tax imposed on the transfer of the `` taxable estate `` of a deceased person, whether such प्रॉपर्टी is transferred via a होगा, according to the राज्य कानून of intestacy or वरना बना as an घटना of the death of the owner, such as a transfer of property from an intestate estate or trust, or the payment of certain life insurance benefits or financial account sums to beneficiaries.
The estate tax is one part of the Unified Gift and एस्टेट कर प्रणाली in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The other part of the system, the gift कर, imposes a कर on हस्तांतरण of प्रॉपर्टी दौरान a व्यक्ति 's जीवन ; the तोहफा कर रोकता avoidance of the estate tax should a person want to give away his/her estate.
In addition to the federal government, many states also impose an एस्टेट कर, साथ the राज्य संस्करण पुकारा either an एस्टेट tax or an inheritance tax.
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों of the एस्टेट tax call it the `` death tax ''.
If an asset is left to a जीवनसाथी or a federally पहचाना दान, the कर usually does not apply.
In addition, up to $ 5,250,000 can be given by an individual, पहले and/or upon उनके मौत, बगैर रूष्ट संघीय तोहफा or एस्टेट कर.
Gavin McGregor Rossdale ( born 30 October 1967 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी कर्ता और संगीतकार, ज्ञात as the सीसे सिंगर and rhythm guitarist of the rock band Bush.
Following Bush 's separation in 2002, जिससे lasted लिये आठ सालो, he थी the सीसे सिंगर और guitarist लिये संस्थान, and later began a solo career.
When performing सोलो, गेविन plays गीतों इससे his extensive musical libraries.
rossdale रै महरूम क्रमित in the शीर्ष 100 भारी Metal Vocalists by Hit Parader ( # 75 ).
raffaello sanzio da urbino ( अप्रैल 6 or कूच 28, 1483 – April 6, 1520 ), better known simply as Raphael, was an Italian painter and architect of the High Renaissance.
His work is admired for its clarity of form and ease of composition and लिये इसके विज़ुअल उपलब्धि of the neoplatonic आदर्श of इंसान grandeur.
Together with Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci, he forms the परंपरागत ट्रिनिटी of ग्रेट मास्टर्स of कि काल.
Raphael was enormously productive, running an unusually large कार्यशाला, और despite उसके मौत at 37, a विशाल देह of उसके कार्य remains.
Many of उसके works हैं मिला in the वेटिकन राजमहल, जहाँ the frescoed Raphael Rooms were the central, and the largest, work of his career.
The बेहतरीन ज्ञात कार्य is the स्कूल of Athens in the Vatican Stanza della Segnatura.
After his early years in रोम much of उसके कार्य थी self-designed, लकिन लिये the सबसे भाग चलाया by the कार्यशाला from his drawings, with considerable loss of quality.
He was extremely influential in his lifetime, though outside Rome his work was ज़्यादातर ज्ञात इससे उसके collaborative printmaking.
After his death, the influence of उसके ग्रेट प्रतिद्वंद्वी michelangelo थी अधिक फैली जबतक the 18th और 19th centuries, when Raphael 's more serene and harmonious qualities were again regarded as the highest models.
His career falls naturally into three phases and three styles, first described by Giorgio Vasari : his early years in Umbria, then a period of about four years ( from 1504–1508 ) absorbing the artistic परंपराओं of फ्लोरेंस, followed by उसके पिछला hectic और triumphant बारह सालो in रोम, working लिये दो popes और उनके close associates.
Julia Fiona रॉबर्ट्स ( born अक्तूबर 28, 1967 ) is an American actress.
She became a Hollywood star after headlining the romantic comedy pretty स्त्री ( 1990 ), जिससे grossed $ 464 लाख worldwide.
After receiving Golden Globe Awards and Academy Award nominations for Steel Magnolias ( 1989 ) और pretty स्त्री, वो जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in Erin Brockovich ( 2000 ).
Her films The Pelican Brief ( 1993 ), My Best Friend 's Wedding ( 1997 ), Mystic Pizza ( 1988 ), Notting Hill ( 1999 ), Runaway Bride ( 1999 ), Ocean 's Eleven ( 2001 ), Ocean 's Twelve ( 2004 ), Charlie Wilson 's War ( 2007 ), Valentine 's दिन ( 2010 ), खा दुवा प्रेम ( 2010 ), और दर्पण दर्पण ( 2012 ) have collectively brought बक्सा दफ्तर रसीदें of over $ 2.6 अरब, बनाना उसके एक of the सबसे कामयाब अभिनेत्रियों in terms of box office receipts.
Roberts had become one of the highest-paid actresses in the संसार, टॉपिंग the हॉलीवुड पत्रकारों annual `` power list '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006.
Her fee for 1990 's pretty स्त्री थी $ 300,000 ; in 2003, वो was paid an unprecedented $ 25 million for her role in Mona Lisa Smile ( 2003 ).
As of 2010, Roberts 's जाल लायक थी अनुमानित to be $ 140 million.
Roberts has been named एक of लोगों पत्रिका 's `` 50 सबसे खूबसूरत लोगों in the World '' eleven times, tied with Halle Berry.
In 2011, वो थी नामित एक of the `` 100 hottest Women of All-Time '' by Men 's Health.
In 2001, Ladies Home Journal ranked her as the 11th सबसे शक्तिशाली स्त्री in the United States.
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg ( born May 14, 1984 ) is an अमरीकी कंप्यूटर प्रोग्रामर और Internet entrepreneur.
He is best ज्ञात as एक of पाँच co-founders of the social networking website Facebook.
As of April 2013, zuckerberg is the अध्यक्ष और मुख्य कार्यपालिका of फेसबुक, inc. और in 2013 उसके निजी माल थी estimated to be US $ 13.3 billion.
Together with his college roommates and fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी एडुआर्डो saverin, एंड्रयू mccollum, डस्टिन moskovitz और Chris Hughes, Zuckerberg launched Facebook from Harvard 's dormitory rooms.
The group then introduced Facebook onto other campuses देशभर और स्थानांतरित to पालो आल्टो, California, United States ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards.
In 2007, at the age of twenty-three years, zuckerberg became a अरबपति as a परिणाम of फेसबुक और the क्रमांक of फेसबुक users worldwide reached a total of one billion in 2012.
Zuckerberg was involved in various legal disputes that यहूद initiated by अन्य in the समूह, जो claimed a share of the कम्पनी आधारित upon their involvement during the development phase of Facebook.
Since 2010, Zuckerberg has been named among the 100 wealthiest और सबसे influential लोगों in the संसार by समय पत्रिका as a भाग of its Person of the Year accolade.
Zuckerberg was played by कर्ता जेसी eisenberg in the 2010 हॉलीवुड film The Social Network in which the rise of Facebook is portrayed.
The mayflower थी the जलयान कि in 1620 transported 102 अंग्रेज़ी Pilgrims, including a core group of Separatists, to New England.
Their story is one of travail और अस्तित्व in a हर्ष नई संसार environment.
framedthe
Committee of Ways and Means is the chief tax -writing कमेटी of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of Representatives.
Members of the Ways and अर्थात् कमेटी हैं नहीं अनुमत to serve on कोई अन्य हाउस समितियों जबतक वे लागू for a waiver from their party 's congressional leadership.
The Committee has jurisdiction over all कराधान, tariffs और अन्य revenue-raising उपायों, as खूब as a क्रमांक of other programs including:
सोशल सुरक्षा
बेरोजगारी लाभ
medicare
प्रवर्तन of चाइल्ड support laws
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, a संघीय welfare program
Foster परवाह और अपनाना programs
The U.S. Constitution requires that all bills regarding कराधान जरूर originate in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
चूंकि हाउस कार्यविधि is कि सब बिल्स regarding कराधान जरूर go through this committee, the committee is very influential, as is its Senate counterpart, the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance.
The तरीके और अर्थात् कमेटी in the 111th कॉंग्रेस थी chaired by चार्ली Rangel, who had taken a leave of absence as chairman until House ethics violations were resolved.
however, उसके छोड़ of अनुपस्थिति as अध्यक्ष was ruled to be a resignation.
Pete Stark resigned as acting chairman, so Sander Levin आयोजित कि स्थिति जबतक the प्रारंभ of the 112th Congress.
Dave Camp became the committee कुर्सी लिये the 112th कॉंग्रेस, बाद the republicans जीती कंट्रोल of the House in the 2010 election.
The blue whale ( Balaenoptera musculus ) is a marine mammal belonging to the suborder of baleen whales ( पुकारा mysticeti ).
At in length and or more in वज़न, it is the largest ज्ञात एनिमल to have ever existed.
Long and slender, the ब्लू व्हेल 's देह can be विभिन्न shades of bluish-grey dorsally and somewhat lighter underneath.
There are at least three distinct subspecies : B. m. musculus of the North Atlantic and North Pacific, B. m. intermedia of the दक्षिणी समंदर और B. m. brevicauda ( भी ज्ञात as the सानो ब्लू व्हेल ) found in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean.
B. m. इंडिका, मिला in the भारतीय समंदर, may be another subspecies.
As साथ अन्य baleen whales, इसके आहार consists लगभग exclusively of small crustaceans known as krill.
Blue whales were abundant in nearly all the oceans on धरती जबतक the शुरूआत of the बीसवीं century.
For over a सदी, वे यहूद hunted लगभग to extinction by whalers until protected by the international community in 1966.
A 2002 रपट अनुमानित वहीँ यहूद 5,000 to 12,000 blue whales worldwide, located in at least five groups.
More recent research into the सानो subspecies suggests इस may be an underestimate.
Before whaling, the largest population was in the Antarctic, क्रमांकन लगभग 239,000 ( दायरा 202,000 to 311,000 ).
There remain only much smaller ( around 2,000 ) concentrations in प्रत्येक of the पूर्वी उत्तर प्रशांत, अंटार्कटिक, and Indian Ocean groups.
वहीँ हैं दो अधिक समूह in the उत्तर अटलांटिक, और at least two in the Southern Hemisphere.
The globe artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var. scolymus ) is a किस्में of a प्रजाति of thistle cultivated as a food.
The edible matter is buds कि रूप भीतर the पुष्प heads पहले the पुष्प come into bloom.
The buds go away or change to a coarse, मुश्किल खाद्य रूप जब the पुष्प blooms.
The uncultivated or wild किस्में of the प्रजाति is पुकारा a cardoon.
It is a perennial संयंत्र देशी to the भूमध्यसागरीय region.
The United States one hundred-dollar विधेयक ( $ 100 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
u.S. statesman, आविष्कारक, और राजनयिक Benjamin Franklin is currently featured on the obverse of the bill.
On the रिवर्स of the banknote is an image of Independence Hall.
The $ 100 bill is the largest denomination कि रै महरूम मुद्रित चूंकि जुलाई 13, 1969, जब the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 were retired.
The Bureau of Engraving and मुद्रण says the औसत जीवन of a $ 100 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 90 महीने ( 7.5 years ) before it is replaced due to wear and tear.
The bills are also commonly referred to as `` Benjamins '', in सन्दर्भ to the उपयोग of बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन 's पोर्ट्रेट on the denomination, or `` c-notes '', based on the Roman numeral for 100.
The bill is one of दो denominations मुद्रित आज कि करता नहीं विशेषता a अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ; the other is the $ 10 bill, featuring Alexander Hamilton.
The time on the clock of Independence Hall on the reverse, according to the U.S. Bureau of नक्काशी और मुद्रण, shows लगभग 4:10.
One hundred hundred-dollar बिल्स हैं वितरित by संघीय आरक्षित Banks in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ).
The Series 2009 $ 100 bill redesign was unveiled on April 21, 2010, and was to be जारी to the पब्लिक on फ़रवरी 11, 2011, लकिन उत्पादन थी shut bas in दिसम्बर 2010 क्युकी as अनेक as 30 % यहूद अनुपयोगी due to a manufacturing flaw.
A vertical क्रीज in the पेपर reveals a रिक्त स्पेस on the विधेयक when pulled out.
In their बदलना, और continuing the ऊँची माँग of इस denomination, the श्रेणी 2006a थी शुभारम्भ retaining the previous design ( 1996-generation ).
on अप्रैल 24, 2013, the संघीय Reserve announced the new $ 100 bill would enter circulation on October 8, 2013.
किंग दाउद in robes of a Byzantine emperor.
miniature इससे the Paris Psalter.
David ( ; आईएसओ 259-3 dawid ; ' ; दमदार 's : daveed ) according to the यहूदी बाइबल, थी the second king of the United Kingdom of Israel, and according to the New Testament Gospels of Matthew and Luke, an ancestor of Jesus.
उसके जीवन is conventionally दिनाँक to c. 1040–970 bce, उसके शासनकाल over Judah c. 1010–1002 BCE, and his reign over the United Kingdom of Israel c. 1002–970 BCE.
The Books of Samuel, 1 Kings, और 1 क्रॉनिकल्स हैं the तभी स्त्रोत of सूचना on दाउद, हालांकि the tel डान stele ( दिनाँक c. 850–835 bce ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ), read as `` House of David '', which most scholars take as confirmation of the existence in the mid-9th century BCE of a Judean royal dynasty called the House of David.
He is depicted as a righteous king, although not without faults, as well as an acclaimed योद्धा, संगीतकार, और कवि, traditionally credited लिये composing many of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms.
David is सेंट्रल to यहूदी, ईसाई, और Islamic doctrine and culture.
Biblical tradition maintains कि a सीधा वंशज of David will be the Messiah.
In Islam he is considered to be a नबी और the किंग of a nation.
Kathmandu ( ; ) is the capital और largest शहरी agglomerate of Nepal.
The agglomerate consists of Kathmandu Metropolitan City at its कोर, और इसके सिस्टर cities Patan, Kirtipur, Thimi, and Bhaktapur.
It भी शामिल the recently पहचाना शहरी क्षेत्रों of Shankhapur, Karyabinayak, and Champapur.
Banepa, Dhulikhel, और panauti हैं उपग्रह शहरी क्षेत्रों of काठमांडू located just outside the Kathmandu valley.
Kathmandu is also known informally as `` ktm '' or the `` tri-city ''.
According to a census conducted in 2011, काठमांडू metropolis अलोन रै 975,453 निवासियों ; और the agglomerate has a population of more than 2.5 million inhabitants.
The metropolitan city area is and has a population घनत्व of 19,250 प्रति km2.
The city stands at an elevation of लगभग in the bowl-shaped Kathmandu Valley of central Nepal.
It is surrounded by four प्रमुख kyu : shivapuri, Phulchoki, Nagarjun, and Chandragiri.
Kathmandu Valley is part of three districts ( Kathmandu, Lalitpur, and Bhaktapur ), has the highest population density in the country, और is घर to परिचय a बारहवीं of नेपाल 's population.
During rana और शाह eras, the नाम `` नेपाल '' referred तभी to the काठमांडू Valley ; it was what people who lived outside the valley called it.
During this period, British इतिहासकारों पुकारा the valley itself `` Nepal Proper ''.
Today, Kathmandu is not only the capital of the Federal लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of नेपाल, लकिन भी the मुख्यालय of the Central Development Region of Nepal.
The Central Region comprises तीन zones : bagmati, narayani, and Janakpur.
Kathmandu is स्तिथ in the Bagmati Zone.
काठमांडू is the गेटवे to tourism in Nepal.
It is भी the तंत्रिका बीच of the country 's economy.
It has the most advanced infrastructure of कोई शहरी क्षेत्रफल in नेपाल, और इसके अर्थव्यवस्था is केन्द्रित on पर्यटन, which accounted for 3.8 % of Nepal 's GDP in 1995–96.
( Tourism in Kathmandu declined thereafter during a काल of राजनैतिक अशांति, लकिन चूंकि तब has improved. )
The city has a rich history, spanning nearly 2000 सालो, as inferred इससे inscriptions found in the valley.
Religious and cultural festivities form a प्रमुख भाग of the जीवनदान of लोगों residing in Kathmandu.
Most of Kathmandu 's लोगों follow हिंदुत्व और अनेक others follow Buddhism.
वहीँ हैं लोगों of अन्य धार्मिक मान्यताओं as well, giving Kathmandu a cosmopolitan culture.
नेपाली is the सबसे commonly बोला language in the city.
Nepal Bhasa is the स्वदेशी भाषा बोला by the Newar people.
हिंदी is widely समझा और अंग्रेज़ी is समझा by Kathmandu 's educated residents.
The city 's साक्षरता रेट is 98 %.
काठमांडू 's सिस्टर शहरों ( ललितपुर patan ) और भक्तपुर हैं अभिन्न to काठमांडू 's सांस्कृतिक विरासत, पर्यटन industry, and economy ; therefore UNESCO 's World Heritage Site lists all three cities ' monuments and attractions together under one heading, `` Kathmandu Valley- UNESCO World Heritage Site ``.
Field हॉकी, प्रायः referred to बस as हॉकी, is a टोली खेल of the हॉकी परिवार जिससे is निभाई between two teams of eleven players with hockey sticks and a hard, solid plastic ball.
At the turn of the 21st century, the game is played globally, with particular लोकप्रियता throughout यूरोपीय, एशिया, महासागरीय, और दक्षिण अमेरिका – in जोड to being the national sport of Pakistan and India.
The term `` field hockey '' is used primarily in Canada, the संयुक्त राज्य, और अन्य regions of the संसार जहाँ the खेल of ice hockey is more popular.
दौरान खेल, लक्ष्य keepers हैं the तभी खिलाड़ी जो हैं अनुमत to टच the बॉल साथ कोई भाग of उनके देह ( साथ the एक्सेप्शन of a खिलाड़ी 's hand considered 'part of the stick ' ), with this only applying within the shooting circle ( also known as the D, or shooting arc, or just the circle ), while field players play the ball with the flat side of their stick.
The team that scores the most goals by the समाप्त of the मैच विन्स.
If the score is tied at the end of the game, either a चित्रण is घोषित or the खेल goes into अतिरिक्त समय and/or a दंड गोलीबारी, depending on the competition 's format.
The governing body of hockey is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय हॉकी संघ ( fih ), साथ मेन और महिलाओं होने represented internationally in competitions including the Olympic games, Commonwealth games, Hockey World Cup, Champions Trophy and Junior Hockey World Cup, with many countries running extensive junior, senior, and masters ' club competitions.
the fih is भी जिम्मेदार लिये organising the हॉकी Rules Board and developing the rules for the sport.
A popular variant of field hockey is indoor हॉकी, जिससे differs in a क्रमांक of respects जबकि embodying the primary principles of hockey.
Indoor hockey is a 6-a-side रूपांतर, साथ a फ़ील्ड जिससे is घटाया to लगभग 40m × 20m.
With many of the rules remaining the same, including रुकावट और फीट, वहीँ हैं अनेक कुंजी विसंगतियाँ - खिलाड़ी may नहीं उठाएँ the बॉल जबतक शूटिंग on लक्ष्य, खिलाड़ी may नहीं hit the बॉल ( बजाय utilising pushes to transfer the ball ), and the sidelines are replaced with solid barriers which the ball will rebound off.
Ethan `` Cane '' Ashby ( né एटकिन्सन ) is a fictional अक्षर इससे the अमरीकी CBS soap opera The Young and the Restless.
He is portrayed by Australian actor Daniel Goddard, who originally auditioned for Brad Snyder on As the World Turns but थी अनुशंसित लिये a भूमिका on the यंग और the बेचैन instead.
The role was to be portrayed as an American, but Goddard 's ऑस्ट्रेलियाई descent बहकावे the अक्षर 's पृष्ठभूमि.
Former head writer Lynn Marie Latham introduced him during the episode airing on January 12, 2007 as an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई बारटेंडर in ढूंढें of उसके परिवार, a डेब्यू that received a mixed response.
Latham created Cane as the son of Phillip Chancellor II ( Donnelly rhodes ) और jill फोस्टर एबॉट ( जेस वाल्टन ) लकिन the अक्षर 's पृष्ठभूमि थी rewritten by मरिया एरिना घंटी in 2009, reestablishing उसे as the son of Colin and Genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers and Genie Francis ).
हालांकि characterized as `` रहस्यमय '', cane is `` वफ़ादार और समर्पित '', while Goddard described the character as a `` typical Australian, working-class kind of guy ''.
He was the first member of the Atkinson family to appear on the श्रेणी, followed by उसके अभिभावक और identical twin brother.
जल्द बाद उसके डेब्यू, he became a leading character, a decision praised by viewers and critics.
the अक्षर रै महरूम शामिल साथ एम्बर मूर ( adrienne frantz ), क्लो मिशेल ( एलिज़ाबेथ hendrickson ) and most notably Lily Winters ( Christel Khalil ), a romance that garnered significant fan attention.
In 2009, Cane and Lily were married ; Global BC would बाद कॉल लिली the प्रेम of cane 's जीवन.
The pair had two children, चार्ली और mattie ashby.
In 2011, the actor was fired, और cane थी शॉट to मौत onscreen.
However, Goddard was rehired soon after viewers campaigned for his return, revealing कि cane 's एकसमान जुड़वा bhai थी in फैक्ट the man who died.
This sacrificed his marriage to Lily, but the युगल यहूद remarried on वेलेंटाइन 's दिन in 2012.
गोडार्ड रै महरूम widely acclaimed लिये उसके portrayal ; canyon News said that he portrays the character honestly, and is `` always dependable, on fire and exciting ''.
John Christopher `` Johnny '' Depp ii ( born जून 9, 1963 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता, film producer, and musician.
He has won the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार और स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार for Best Actor.
Depp रोज़ to prominence on the 1980s टेलीविज़न series 21 Jump Street, becoming a teen idol.
Dissatisfied with that status, Depp turned to film for more challenging roles ; he played the title character of the acclaimed Edward Scissorhands ( 1990 ) and later found box office success in films ऐसे as sleepy खोखला ( 1999 ), चार्ली और the चॉकलेट फैक्टरी ( 2005 ), ऐलिस in वंडरलैंड ( 2010 ), Rango ( 2011 ) and the Pirates of the Caribbean film series ( 2003–present ).
He has collaborated with निदेशक और dost टिम बर्टन in आठ films ; the सबसे हाल होने अंधेरा Shadows ( 2012 ).
Depp has gained acclaim for his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in Ed Wood, Joseph D. Pistone in Donnie Brasco, Hunter S. Thompson in Fear and loathing in लास वेगास, जार्ज जंग in उड़ा, और the बैंको डाकू जॉन dillinger in Michael Mann 's Public Enemies.
Films featuring डेप have grossed over $ 3.1 अरब at the United States box office and over $ 7.6 billion worldwide.
He has been nominated for top awards many times, winning the Best Actor Awards from the Golden –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy Globes –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy लिये स्वीनी टॉड : the राक्षस नाई of बेड़े गली और इससे the स्क्रीन Actors Guild for Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl.
He also has garnered a sex प्रतीक औकात in अमरीकी सिनेमा, होने twice नामित as the `` Sexiest Man Alive `` by People magazine in 2003 and 2009.
He has been listed in the 2012 गिनीज किताब of संसार रिकॉर्ड as the highest paid actor, with $ 75 million.
The World Wide वेब ( abbreviated as www or w3, commonly ज्ञात as the वेब ), is a system of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet.
With a web browser, one can view web pages that may contain text, images, videos, और अन्य मल्टीमीडिया, और navigate between उन्हें via hyperlinks.
Using concepts from his earlier हाइपरटेक्स्ट प्रणालियों जैसे enquire, अंग्रेजों इंजीनियर, कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक और at कि समय कर्मचारी of the cern, सर टिम berners-lee, अभी निदेशक of the संसार Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ), wrote a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web.
At CERN, a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between फ़्रांस और स्विट्ज़रलैंड, berners-lee और belgian कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट cailliau प्रस्तावित in 1990 to उपयोग हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to link and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse at will '', and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year.
Mark Travis John Sanchez ( born नवम्बर 11, 1986 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक for the New York Jets of the National Football League ( NFL ).
He was drafted in the first round of the 2009 NFL Draft as the fifth overall चयन by the jets और the दूसरी क्वार्टरबैक taken overall.
He played college football at the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया ( यूएससी ).
Sanchez grew up in a well-disciplined और athletic family.
In the eighth ग्रेड, he began to खेल फ़ुटबॉल और सीख the intricacies of the quarterback position, training with his father, Nick.
A well-regarded prospect, Sanchez committed to दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया following उसके कामयाब ऊँची स्कूल करियर in जिससे he led उसके टोली to a चैंपियनशिप title during his final season.
At USC, Sanchez थी relegated as the बैकअप क्वार्टरबैक दौरान उसके पहला तीन सालो हालांकि he रोज़ to prominence due to his brief appearances on the field in 2007 due to injuries suffered by starting quarterback John David Booty.
Sanchez also became लोकप्रिय भीतर the जातियाँ due to his Mexican-American heritage.
Named the starter in 2008, Sanchez led यूएससी to a 12–1 रिकार्ड और जीती the रोज़ कटोरी विरूद्ध penn राज्य लिये जिससे Sanchez was awarded the Most Valuable Player award for his performance on offense.
Although many considered him too अनुभवहीन, सांचेज़ घोषित उसके इरादे to enter the 2009 NFL Draft.
He was selected by the Jets बाद वे traded up साथ the क्लीवलैंड Browns, and was named the starting quarterback prior to the start of the season.
Despite a subpar performance, Sanchez led the Jets to the AFC चैंपियनशिप खेल, a खोने प्रयत्न to the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस, बनने the चौथी रुकी क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल इतिहास to win his first playoff game and the second to win two playoff games.
In his second season, Sanchez continued to develop and led the Jets to the playoffs and the team 's second consecutive afc चैंपियनशिप खेल जहाँ वे narrowly खोया to the पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स, 24–19.
With the win over the New England Patriots the week prior, Sanchez tied four other quarterbacks लिये the दूसरी सबसे post-season सड़क victories by a क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल इतिहास.
In leading the Jets to two लगातार सम्मेलन championships, सांचेज़ joined क्वार्टरबैक बेन roethlisberger as the तभी दो quarterbacks in NFL history to reach the conference championship in their first two seasons in the league.
The next two seasons would be a regression लिये दोनो the टोली और सांचेज़ as वे विफल to reach the playoffs.
Fans and media critics called for a struggling सांचेज़ to be benched.
He eventually was replaced towards the समाप्त of the 2012 ऋतु with Greg McElroy.
Paul Avery ( April 2, 1934December 10, 2000 ) was an अमरीकी पुलिस रिपोर्टर, बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके कहानियां on the infamous serial killer known as the Zodiac, and later for his work on the Patricia Hearst kidnapping.
A small submersible ac sump पंप साथ a गार्डन नली connector
A sump pump is a pump प्रयुक्त to हटाएँ जल कि रै संचित in a जल collecting sump जलाशय, commonly found in the basement of homes.
The water may enter via the perimeter drains of a basement waterproofing प्रणाली, funneling into the जलाशय or क्युकी of बरसात or प्राकृतिक मैदान जल, if the तहखाने is नीचे the water table level.
Sump pumps are used where basement बाढ़ happens regularly और to उपाय dampness जहाँ the जल तालिका is above the foundation of a home.
Sump pumps send water away from a house to any place where it is no longer problematic, such as a नगरपालिका तूफ़ान नाली or a शुष्क well.
Pumps may discharge to the sanitary सीवर in पुरानी installations.
एकबार माना स्वीकार्य, इस अभ्यास may अभी violate the plumbing कोड or municipal bylaws, because it can overwhelm the municipal sewage treatment system.
Municipalities urge homeowners to disconnect and reroute sump pump निर्वहन दूर इससे sanitary sewers.
Fines may be imposed for noncompliance.
Many homeowners have inherited उनके sump पंप configurations और do नहीं एहसास that the pump discharges to the sewer.
If the discharge is fed to a laundry डूबना in the तहखाने, it 's संभावित going to the सीवर.
Usually hardwired into a घर 's विद्युत system, sump pumps may have a battery backup.
The home 's pressurized water supply powers some pumps, eliminating the need for electricity at the expense of using potable जल, potentially बनाना उन्हें अधिक महंगी to operate than विद्युत पंपों और बनाना an additional water disposal problem.
Since a sump basin may overflow if not constantly pumped, a बैकअप प्रणाली is महत्वपूर्ण लिये मामले जब the प्रमुख शक्ति is आउट लिये prolonged अवधि of समय, as during a severe storm.
There are generally two प्रकार of sump पंपों — pedestal and submersible.
The pedestal pump 's motor is mounted above the sump, जहाँ it is अधिक easily सर्विस, लकिन is भी more conspicuous.
The पंप impeller is चलित by a long, लंबवत एक्सटेंशन शाफ्ट और the impeller is in a scroll housing in the base of the pump.
The submersible pump is entirely mounted अंदर the sump, और is विशेषकर sealed to prevent विद्युत छोटी circuits.
Sump pump systems are भी utilized in औद्योगिक और वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग to कंट्रोल जल तालिका -related problems in surface soil.
An artesian aquifer or periodic ऊँची जल तालिका हालात can कारण the मैदान to become unstable due to water saturation.
As long as the pump कृत्यों, the सतह मृदा होगा remain stable.
These sumps are typically ten feet in गहराई or अधिक ; lined साथ corrugated मेटल पाइप कि contains perforations or नाली holes throughout.
They may include electronic control systems with visual और audible सचेतक और हैं प्रायः covered to prevent debris and animals from falling in.
Bleeding Kansas, Bloody Kansas or the Border War, was a series of violent political confrontations involving anti-slavery Free-Staters and pro-slavery `` Border ruffian `` तत्व, कि took प्लेस in the कान्सास territory और the neighboring कस्बों of मिसौरी between 1854 and 1861.
At the heart of the conflict was the question of whether Kansas होता डालें the संघ as a फ़्री राज्य or slave state.
As such, Bleeding Kansas was a proxy war between northerners और southerners over the समस्या of गुलामी in the संयुक्त States.
The term `` bleeding कान्सास '' थी coined by होरेस greeley of the नई यॉर्क ट्रिब्यून ; the events it encompasses directly presaged the American Civil War.
Congress had long struggled to संतुलन the रूचि of pro-slavery forces and anti-slavery forces.
The events later known as Bleeding Kansas were नियत into गति by the kansas–nebraska अधिनियम of 1854, जिससे nullified the मिसौरी Compromise and instead implemented the concept of popular sovereignty.
An ostensibly democratic idea, popular sovereignty stated that the निवासियों of प्रत्येक territory or राज्य चाहिए decide whether it होता be a फ़्री or स्लेव state ; however, this resulted in immigration en masse to Kansas by activists from both sides.
At one point, Kansas had two पृथक सरकारें, प्रत्येक साथ इसके अपना संविधान, हालांकि तभी one was federally recognized.
On January 29, 1861, Kansas was admitted to the Union as a free state, less than तीन महीने पहले the बैटल of फोर्ट sumter जिससे began the सिविल युद्ध.
Benzene is an सशुल्क रासायनिक यौगिक साथ the molecular formula C6 H|Hydrogen|H6.
Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon अणु joined in a रिंग, साथ 1 हाइड्रोजन अणु संलग्न to each carbon atom.
Because its molecules contain only carbon and हाइड्रोजन अणु, बेंजीन is classed as a हाइड्रोकार्बन.
Benzene is a प्राकृतिक constituent of crude आयल, and is one of the most basic petrochemicals.
बेंजीन is an खुशबूदार हाइड्रोकार्बन और the दूसरी [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ), a cyclic hydrocarbon with a continuous pi bond.
It is sometimes abbreviated ph –h. बेंजीन is a colorless और अत्यधिक ज्वलनशील liquid with a sweet smell.
It is मुख्यतः प्रयुक्त as a precursor to भारी रसायन, ऐसे as ethylbenzene और cumene, which are produced on a billion kilogram scale.
क्युकी it रै a ऊँची ऑक्टेन क्रमांक, it is an महत्वपूर्ण घटक of gasoline, composing a few percent of its mass.
Most non-industrial अनुप्रयोग have महरूम सीमित by बेंजीन 's carcinogenicity.
Giovanni Virginio Schiaparelli ( ; 14 March 1835 – 4 जुलाई 1910 ) थी an इतालवी astronomer and science historian.
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of निन्टेंडो 's वी खेल कंसोल to चलाएं तन्त्र that has not been authorized by Nintendo.
It achieves इस by defeating the वी 's नक़ल protection and code signing measures.
In अधिक सामान्य शर्तें, वी homebrew refers to the उपयोग of the वी 's हार्डवेयर, accessories और तन्त्र for purposes outside those intended by the manufacturer.
Original efforts focused on using the Wii Remote as a pointing यंत्र on अन्य ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों, or कार्यशील web-based खेल in the built-in web browser.
Subsequent developments in games exploits, such as the `` Twilight hack ``, `` Bannerbomb '' and its later अवतार `` letterbomb '', `` तोड़ स्टेक '', `` इंडियाना pwns '', `` yu-gi-owned '', `` bathaxx '', और `` वापसी of the jodi '', बना installing the `` Homebrew Channel `` possible.
Hadley ( right ) discussing the 2006 israel-lebanon संकट साथ Bush and Rice.
Stephen John Hadley ( born February 13, 1947 ) was the 21st U.S. Assistant to the President लिये नेशनल सुरक्षा अफेयर्स ( commonly referred as नेशनल सुरक्षा सलाहकार ), सेवारत अंतर्गत President George W. Bush.
Take identical growing पौधे और दे उर्वरक to half of them.
If there are differences between the निषेचित संयंत्र समूह और the unfertilized `` कंट्रोल '' समूह, these differences may be due to the fertilizer.
A scientific कंट्रोल is an प्रयोग or अवलोकन designed to minimize the प्रभाव of variables other than the single independent variable.
This increases the reliability of the results, often through a तुलना between कंट्रोल माप और the अन्य measurements.
Scientific controls हैं a भाग of the वैज्ञानिक विधि.
For example, during drug testing, scientists होगा कोशिश to कंट्रोल दो समूह to रखना उन्हें as एकसमान as संभावित, तब allow एक group to try the drug.
Another example might be testing plant fertilizer by giving it to only half the plants in a गार्डन : the पौधे कि प्राप्त no उर्वरक हैं the कंट्रोल समूह, क्युकी वे स्थापित the बेसलाइन स्तर of विकास कि the fertilizer-treated पौधे will be compared against.
Without a control group, the प्रयोग can नहीं determine whether the fertilizer-treated पौधे grow अधिक than they would have if untreated.
Ideally, all variables in an प्रयोग होगा be नियंत्रित ( accounted लिये by the control measurements ) and none will be uncontrolled.
In such an experiment, if all the controls work as expected, it is possible to conclude that the experiment is working as intended and कि the परिणाम of the प्रयोग हैं due to the प्रभाव of the variable being tested.
That is, scientific controls allow an investigator to मेक a अर्जी जैसे `` दो परिस्थितियों यहूद एकसमान जबतक फ़ैक्टर x occurred.
Since factor X is the only अंतर between the दो परिस्थितियों, the नई निष्कर्ष was caused by factor X. ''
< < Chemical तत्व आंकड़ा references
John एडम्स ( अक्तूबर 30, 1735 ( o.s. अक्तूबर 19, 1735 ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) थी the दूसरी अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States ( 1797–1801 ), having earlier served as the first vice president of the United States.
An American Founding पिता, he थी a statesman, राजनयिक, और a अग्रणी एडवोकेट of American independence from Great Britain.
Well शिक्षित, he थी an आत्मज्ञान राजनैतिक theorist जो प्रचारित republicanism और लिखा prolifically about his often seminal ideas, both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers.
एडम्स आए to prominence in the early stages of the American Revolution.
A वकील और पब्लिक फिगर in बोस्टन, as a प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to the Continental Congress, he played a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence.
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in 1776, और थी इसके प्राथमिक advocate in the Congress.
Later, as a diplomat in Europe, he helped negotiate the eventual peace treaty with Great Britain, and was responsible for obtaining vital सरकारी लोन इससे एम्सटर्डम बैंकर्स.
A political theorist and historian, Adams largely wrote the मैसाचुसेट्स संविधान in 1780, जिससे साथ साथ उसके पहले विचार on सरकारी, influenced American political thought.
One of his greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775, he मनोनीत जार्ज वॉशिंगटन to be commander-in-chief, और 25 सालो later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States.
एडम्स ' क्रांतिकारी श्रेय secured उसे दो शर्तें as जार्ज वॉशिंगटन 's वाइस president and his own election in 1796 as the second president.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious हमले by the jeffersonian republicans, as खूब as the प्रबल faction in his own Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton.
Adams signed the विवादास्पद एलियन और राजद्रोह अधिनियमों, और निर्मित up the फौज और नेवी विशेषकर in the फेस of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France, 1798–1800.
the प्रमुख accomplishment of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी थी उसके शांतिपूर्ण resolution of the conflict in the face of Hamilton 's opposition.
In 1800, एडम्स थी पराजित लिये re-election by Thomas Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts.
He later resumed उसके दोस्ती साथ Jefferson.
He and his wife, अबीगैल एडम्स, संस्थापित an संपन्नता परिवार लकीर of राजनेता, राजनयिकों, और historians now referred to as the Adams political family.
Adams थी the पिता of जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स, the sixth President of the United States.
His achievements have received greater recognition in modern टाइम्स, हालांकि उसके योगदान यहूद नहीं initially as celebrated as those of other Founders.
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the building that आखिरकार became ज्ञात as the श्वेत हाउस.
a वाट भाप engine.
The steam engine, fuelled primarily by कोयले, propelled the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति in ग्रेट Britain and the world.
the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति थी the परिवर्तन to नई निर्माण प्रक्रियाओं कि occurred in the period from about 1760 to some time between 1820 and 1840.
This transition included going from hand उत्पादन विधि to मशीने, नई रासायनिक निर्माण और आयरन उत्पादन प्रक्रियाओं, improved efficiency of water power, the increasing use of steam power and development of machine tools.
the परिवर्तन भी शामिल the change from wood and other bio-fuels to coal.
The Industrial क्रान्ति began in ब्रिटेन और भीतर a few दशकों स्प्रेड to Western Europe and the United States.
The Industrial क्रान्ति marks a प्रमुख turning पाइंट in इतिहास ; almost every aspect of daily life was influenced in some way.
Most notably, average income and population began to प्रदर्शनी unprecedented sustained growth.
In the words of Nobel Prize winner Robert E. Lucas, Jr., `` For the first time in history, the living मानकों of the masses of ordinary लोगों have begun to undergo sustained विकास... nothing remotely जैसे इस आर्थिक बर्ताव is mentioned by the classical economists, even as a theoretical possibility. ''
William Bell स्कॉट आयरन और कोयले, 1855-60
the काल of समय covered by the औद्योगिक Revolution varies with different historians.
Eric Hobsbawm held कि it 'broke आउट ' in ब्रिटेन in the 1780s और थी नहीं fully felt until the 1830s or 1840s, while T. S. Ashton held that it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830.
Some 20th-century इतिहासकारों ऐसे as जॉन clapham और निकोलस crafts have argued कि the process of economic and social change took place gradually and the term revolution is a misnomer.
This is still a subject of बहस among इतिहासकारों.
GDP per capita थी broadly stable पहले the औद्योगिक Revolution and the emergence of the modern capitalist economy.
The Industrial Revolution began an era of per-capita आर्थिक विकास in पूंजीवादी economies.
Economic इतिहासकारों हैं in अनुबंध कि the onset of the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति is the सबसे important event in the history of humanity since the domestication of animals and plants.
The First औद्योगिक क्रान्ति विकसित into the दूसरी औद्योगिक क्रान्ति in the परिवर्तन सालो between 1840 और 1870, जब technological और आर्थिक progress gained momentum with the increasing adoption of steam-powered boats, ships and railways, the large scale manufacture of machine tools and the increasing use of steam powered factories.
Juliet AnnMarie Huddy ( born September 27, 1969 ), is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न न्यूज रिपोर्टर, फिलहाल appearing on Fox News Channel.
This list बाँधने u.S. शहरों by जमीन क्षेत्रफल ( not including bodies of water ).
Total areas ( including water ) are also given, but note that, when क्रमित by कुल क्षेत्रफल, a क्रमांक of तटीय शहरों appear disproportionately `` larger ''.
San Francisco is an extreme example ; water makes up nearly 80 % of इसके कुल क्षेत्रफल of 232 वर्गाकार मील ( 601 km2 ).
Note also that in many cases a city may be geographically large primarily क्युकी इसके नगरपालिका सरकारी रै मिलाया साथ the government of the surrounding county.
In some cases the county no longer exists, जबकि in अन्य the व्यवस्था रै formed a संचित city–county ( or city- borough in Alaska, or city- parish in Louisiana ).
These are shown in bold in the list नीचे ( लकिन नहीं सब उदाहरण may be indicated ).
** These are स्वतंत्र शहरों, अर्थ वे are not a part of any county.
The विशाल आंत ( or bowel, कोलन ) is the पिछला part of the digestive system in vertebrate animals.
Its function is to अवशोषित जल इससे the बाकी indigestible खाना पदार्थ, और तब to pass useless waste material from the body.
This आलेख is primarily परिचय the इंसान आंत, though the information about its processes are directly applicable to most mammals.
The large intestine consists of the cecum, मलाशय और गुदा कनाल.
it starts in the सही iliac प्रदेश of the pelvis, just at or below the right waist, where it is joined to the bottom end of the small intestine.
From here it continues up the abdomen, तब आरपार the चौडाई of the abdominal गुहा, और तब it turns bas, continuing to its endpoint at the anus.
The large आंत is परिचय long, जिससे is परिचय one-fifth of the पूरे length of the intestinal canal.
In Terminologia Anatomica the large intestine शामिल the cecum, कोलन, मलाशय, और anal canal.
However, some स्त्रोत exclude the गुदा canal.
The Green Bay Packers are an American फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित in ग्रीन खाड़ी, विस्कॉन्सिन.
They are members of the North Division of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League ( NFL ).
Green Bay is the third-oldest मताधिकार in the NFL, having been organized and playing in 1919.
The Packers are the only non-profit, community-owned प्रमुख लीग पेशेवर sports team in the United States.
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small town टीमों '' कि यहूद एकबार आम in the एनएफएल during the 1920s and 1930s.
संस्थापित in 1919 by अर्ल `` घुंघराले '' lambeau ( hence the नाम lambeau फ़ील्ड on जिससे the टोली plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun, the Green Bay Packers can trace their lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896.
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional football team against क्लब इससे around विस्कॉन्सिन और the मिडवेस्ट.
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA ) in 1921, the forerunner to कया is ज्ञात आज as the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( NFL ).
हालांकि ग्रीन खाड़ी is the पिछला एनएफएल `` छोटी कस्बा '' टोली, इसके लोकल fan base and media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994.
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the NFL ), including nine NFL championships prior to the सुपर कटोरी era और चार सुपर कटोरी victories —in 1967 ( सुपर कटोरी i ), 1968 ( सुपर कटोरी ii ), 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ).
the पैकर्स have long-standing, कड़वा rivalries साथ उनके nfc उत्तर ( formerly the nfc सेंट्रल ) प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, the Chicago Bears, Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions.
The bears-packers फंसने is एक of the oldest rivalries in NFL history, dating back to 1921.
The San Fernando Valley ( locally known as `` the घाटी '' ) is an urbanized घाटी स्तिथ in the लॉस एंजिल्स महानगर area of southern California, United States, defined by the mountains of the Transverse Ranges circling it.
Home to 1.76 million people, it lies north of the larger और अधिक populous लॉस एंजिल्स जलाशय.
Nearly two thirds of the Valley 's जमीन क्षेत्रफल is भाग of the नगर of Los Angeles.
The other incorporated शहरों in the घाटी हैं ग्लेनडेल, Burbank, San Fernando, Hidden Hills and Calabasas.
San Fernando घाटी, लॉस एंजिल्स
The exterior of the current संसार of coca-cola at Pemberton Place.
The संसार of coca-cola, is a स्थाई exhibition featuring the history of The Coca-Cola Company.
Its well-known विज्ञापन as खूब as a मेजबान of entertainment क्षेत्रों और आकर्षण, और is स्तिथ in अटलांटा, जॉर्जिया ( where the company 's headquarters are located ) at Pemberton Place ( named in honor of John Pemberton, the inventor of Coca-Cola ).
as part of जॉर्जिया 's संग्रहालय.
the complex located across Baker गली इससे centennial ओलम्पिक पार्क कि is घर to the जॉर्जिया एक्वेरियम and future Center for Civil & Human Rights.
It opened to the public on May 24, 2007, relocating इससे और replacing the असली प्रदर्शनी.
Pretties is a 2005 विज्ञान fiction अनोखा और the दूसरी किताब of the uglies त्रयी written by Scott Westerfeld.
It is set in a future dystopian world in which everyone is turned `` pretty '' by चरम कॉस्मेटिक सर्जरी upon reaching आयु 16.
It tells the story of किशोरावस्था टैली youngblood जो विद्रोहियों against society 's enforced conformity.
Susan Leigh vaughan स्मिथ ( born सितंबर 26, 1971 ) is an अमरीकी woman sentenced to life in prison for murdering her children.
Born in संघ, दक्षिण कैरोलिना, और a पूर्व छात्र of the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिण कैरोलिना संघ, वो थी convicted on जुलाई 22, 1995 लिये murdering उसके दो sons, 3-year-old Michael Daniel Smith, born October 10, 1991, and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith, born August 5, 1993.
The case gained worldwide attention shortly after it developed, due to her claiming कि a ब्लैक man चुराया उसके car और kidnapped her sons.
She later claimed कि वो suffered इससे दिमागी स्वास्थ्य issues that impaired her judgment.
According to the दक्षिण कैरोलिना विभाग of corrections, स्मिथ होगा be योग्य लिये parole on November 4, 2024, after serving a minimum of thirty years.
She is incarcerated at दक्षिण कैरोलिना 's leath correctional Institution, near Greenwood.
Mount McKinley ( also ज्ञात as denali लिया इससे the इनुइट koyukon athabaskan भाषा अर्थ `` the ग्रेट एक '' ) is the highest mountain peak in the United States and in North America with a summit elevation of above sea level.
At some, the आधार to शिखर वृद्धि is माना the largest of any mountain situated entirely above sea level.
Measured by topographic prominence, it is the तीसरा सबसे prominent शिखर बाद माउंट एवरेस्ट and Aconcagua.
Located in the अलास्का दायरा in the आंतरिक of us राज्य of अलास्का, it is the centerpiece of Denali National Park and Preserve.
The first European to document sighting the पहाड़ थी जार्ज वैंकूवर in 1794.
In 1903, जेम्स wickersham अंकित the पहला attempt at climbing McKinley which was unsuccessful.
In 1906, Frederick Cook claimed the पहला ascent जिससे was later proven to be false.
The first verifiable ascent to mckinley 's समिट थी हासिल on जून 7, 1913 by चढना हडसन stuck, Harry Karstens, Walter Harper, and Robert Tatum.
In 1951, ब्रैडफोर्ड washburn pioneered the वेस्ट buttress रूट माना to be the safest and easiest route and therefore the most popular currently in use.
the होंडा s600 is an ऑटोमोबाइल manufactured by Honda.
It was शुभारम्भ in March 1964.
Available as a roadster – bearing strong प्रतिरूप to the होंडा s500 – और as a fastback coupé – introduced in कूच 1965 – the s600 थी the पहला होंडा उपलब्धियाँ in two trim levels.
During its production run up to 1966, the मॉडल स्टाइलिंग होता remain pretty much the वही, साथ the सबसे notable परिवर्तन coming to the front grille, bumper, and headlights.
Powered by a DOHC, water-cooled, four-cylinder inline engine with four carburetors, the इंजन क्षमता थी increased to 606 cc इससे the s500 's 531 cc.
The इंजन उत्पादित at 8,500 आरपीएम और had a top speed of.
With the convertible weighing in at mere, the अतिरिक्त चादर मेटल of the कूप तभी added to the overall weight.
Suspension was independent with sealed रोलर कड़ी ड्राइव to प्रत्येक पश्च व्हील.
The S600 थी the पहला द्रव्यमान marketed होंडा car.
First offered तभी in right-hand ड्राइव, it जल्द became उपलब्धियाँ in left-hand drive to appeal to export markets.
There were a few pre-production s500s manufactured in बाएँ हाथ ड्राइव, two or three even being shown in some early sales brochures.
Both the S600 roadster and coupé were उपलब्धियाँ in मानक trim और a खास, upgraded पैकेज पुकारा the sm600 जिससे शामिल, among अन्य items, special paint colors, exclusive badging, a standard radio and speaker, a special antenna in the passenger side sun visor, standard reversing lights, a standard cigarette lighter, a standard heater, better cushioned seats, and a detachable seat track for quick removal of the passenger seat.
Honda built 3,912 roadsters in 1964, with उत्पादन चढ़ाई to 7,261 convertibles और 1,519 coupes in 1965.
Production dropped off in 1966 ( as they were shifting to the S800 ) साथ तभी 111 roadsters और 281 coupes, giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles और 1,800 coupes for the 3 year span.
Everybody Hates Chris is an American television period sitcom that depicts the teenage अनुभवों of हास्य क्रिस चट्टान ( जो is भी the narrator ) जबकि growing up in the bedford-stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York.
The show is set between 1983 and 1987 ; however, चट्टान खुद थी a किशोरावस्था between 1978 and 1983.
चट्टान grew up साथ a लड़के नामित केनी montero, जिसको he रै प्रायः referred to as the inspiration for a lot of the episodes.
In many interviews, Rock has described Kenny as the कारण he मिला into कॉमेडी in the पहला प्लेस.
the दिखाएँ 's शीर्षक parodies the CBS sitcom Everybody Loves Raymond.
Rock stated : `` Everybody loves रेमंड लकिन everybody hates क्रिस ! ``.
The show 's lead actors are टायलर जेम्स विलियम्स, टेरी क्रू, tichina अर्नाल्ड, tequan रिचमंड, imani Hakim, and Vincent Martella.
In Fall 2008, the The CW moved Everybody hates क्रिस और the खेल to the शुक्रवार रात्रि मौत slot.
The fourth season of the series premiered शुक्रवार, अक्तूबर 3, 2008, at 8:00PM Eastern/7:00PM Central.
On May 21, 2009, the cw घोषित that it had cancelled Everybody Hates Chris.
Prior to this, executive producer Chris Rock announced that the end of season 4 matched up साथ उसके अपना past—dropping आउट of ऊँची स्कूल to become a comedian—and that it was time to end the show.
Pleural effusion is excess fluid that accumulates between the दो pleural परतों, the fluid-filled स्पेस that surrounds the lungs.
Excessive amounts of such fluid can impair श्वास by limiting the विस्तार of the फेफड़े दौरान ventilation.
Beowulf ( ; in Old अंग्रेज़ी or ) is the conventional शीर्षक of an बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी वीर एपिक कविता consisting of 3182 alliterative long lines, set in Scandinavia, commonly cited as one of the most important works of Anglo-Saxon literature.
It survives in a सिंगल पाण्डुलिपि ज्ञात as the Nowell Codex.
Its composition by an बेनाम anglo-saxon कवि is दिनाँक between the 8th and the early 11th century.
In 1731, the manuscript was badly क्षतिग्रस्त by a आग कि swept through a भवन आवास a संग्रहण of Medieval manuscripts assembled by Sir Robert Bruce Cotton.
The poem fell into obscurity for decades, and its existence did not become widely known again जबतक it थी मुद्रित in 1815 in an संस्करण prepared by the icelandic-danish विद्वान Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin.
In the poem, Beowulf, a hero of the Geats in Scandinavia, comes to the help of Hroðgar, the किंग of the danes, जिनकी मीड हॉल ( in heorot ) रै महरूम अंतर्गत attack by a monster known as Grendel.
After Beowulf जानबूझ उसे, grendel 's माँ हमले the हॉल and is then also defeated.
Victorious, Beowulf goes home to geatland in स्वीडन और बाद becomes king of the Geats.
After a period of fifty years has passed, Beowulf defeats a dragon, लकिन is fatally wounded in the battle.
After उसके मौत, उसके सेवकों दफनाने उसे in a tumulus, a burial mound, in Geatland.
Shem Ham और japheth by James Tissot 1904.
Shem ( ; Sēm ; Arabic : Sām ; Ge'ez : ሴም, sēm ; `` renown ; समृद्धि ; नाम '' ) थी एक of the बेटे of नूह in the यहूदी बाइबल as well as in Islamic literature.
He is most popularly regarded as the ज्येष्ठ बेटे, हालांकि कुछ परंपराओं regard him as the second son.
Genesis 10:21 refers to सापेक्ष आयु of shem और उसके bhai japheth, लकिन साथ sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different translations.
The verse is translated in the KJV as `` Unto shem भी, the पिता of सब the children of eber, the brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born. ``.
However, the New American Standard Bible gives, `` भी to shem, the पिता of सब the children of eber, और the पुरानी bhai of japheth, children were born. ''
Genesis 11:10 records that Shem was still 100 years old at the birth of Arphaxad, ( but nearly 101 - see Chronology note, ) two years after the बाढ़, बनाना उसे मुश्किल 99 at the समय the बाढ़ began ; और कि he जिया लिये another 500 सालो बाद this, making his age at death 600 years.
The children of shem यहूद ईलम, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, and Aram, in addition to daughters.
Abraham, the patriarch of the hebrews और arabs, थी एक of the वंशजों of Arphaxad.
Islamic literature describes Shem as एक of the believing बेटे of Noah.
Some sources even पहचानो shem as a नबी in उसके अपना right and that he was the next prophet after his father.
In one Muslim लेजेंड, shem थी एक of the लोगों कि परमेश्वर बना यीशु resurrect as a sign to the Children of Israel.
The 1st century historian Flavius Josephus, among many others, recounted the परंपरा कि ये पाँच बेटे यहूद the progenitors of the राष्ट्र of ईलम, assyria, chaldea, लीडिया, और सीरियाई, क्रमशः.
Semitic is still a commonly used term for the Semitic languages, as a subset of the afro-asiatic भाषाएं, denoting the आम भाषाई विरासत of अरबी, aramaic, अक्कादी, ethiopic, Hebrew and Phoenician languages.
According to some Jewish traditions ( e.g., B. Talmud Nedarim 32b ; Genesis Rabbah 46:7 ; Genesis Rabbah 56:10 ; Leviticus Rabbah 25:6 ; Numbers Rabbah 4:8. ), Shem is believed to have been Melchizedek, King of सलेम जिसको अब्राहम is अंकित to have मिले बाद the बैटल of the चार kings.
In a few of the many extra-biblical स्त्रोत कि describe उसे, shem is भी credited with killing Nimrod, son of Cush.
Shem is उल्लेखित in उत्पत्ति 5:32, 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; also in 1 Chronicles 1:4.
Geographic identifications of Flavius Josephus, c. 100 AD ; Japheth 's sons दिखाया in रेड, हैम 's बेटे in ब्लू, shem 's sons in green.
Go Daddy or Go Daddy Group Inc. is a privately आयोजित कम्पनी कि is primarily an अंतरजाल डोमेन रजिस्ट्रार और वेब होस्टिंग company.
Go Daddy समूह inc. दायर लिये an ipo in 2006, लकिन बाद रद्द it, due to `` market uncertainties ''.
In addition to domain पंजीकरण और होस्टिंग go पापा भी बिकता e-business related software and services.
On June 24, 2011, The Wall Street Journal reported that private-equity firms KKR and Silver Lake साझेदार, साथ साथ a तीसरा निवेशकों, यहूद nearing a सौदे to ख़रीदे the कम्पनी लिये between $ 2–2.5 billion.
On July 1, 2011 Go Daddy confirmed that KKR, Silver झील साझेदार और प्रौद्योगिकी क्रॉसओवर ventures had closed the deal.
Although the purchase price was not officially घोषित it थी reported to be $ 2.25 अरब, लिये 65 % of the company.
, Bob Parsons had ceded the CEO role of Go Daddy to वारेन adelman, जो था महरूम साथ the कम्पनी लिये परिचय 10 years.
The Andorran coat of arms at the andorran पार्लियामेंट.
Andorra ( ;, ), officially the Principality of अंडोरा ( ), भी पुकारा the principality of the घाटियों of अंडोरा, ( ), is a landlocked microstate in Southwestern Europe, located in the eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France.
it is the छठे smallest स्वदेश in Europe, having an area of and an estimated population of 85,000 in 2012.
Its capital, Andorra la Vella, is the highest capital city in यूरोपीय, at an उन्नयन of ऊपर समुद्र स्तर.
The official भाषा is कैटलन, हालांकि स्पेनी, पुर्तगाली, and French are also commonly spoken.
Created under a चार्टर in 988, the उपस्थित Principality was formed in 1278.
It is known as a principality as it is a साम्राज्य headed by दो co-princes – the बिशप of Urgell and the President of France.
Andorra is a prosperous country mainly because of its tourism उद्योग, जिससे सेवाएं an अनुमानित 10.2 लाख visitors annually, and also because of its status as a tax haven.
It is not a member of the European संघ, लकिन the यूरोपियन is the de facto currency.
The people of Andorra have the 4th उच्चतम इंसान जीवन प्रत्याशा in the संसार — 82 सालो at birth.
The George Washington University ( GW, GWU, or George Washington ) is a व्यापक निजी, coeducational शोध विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in Washington, D.C..
It awards प्रमाणपत्र, स्नातक डिग्री, मास्टर्स डिग्री, and PhDs across several dozen disciplines.
The university was chartered by an Act of Congress on फ़रवरी 9, 1821 as the columbian कॉलेज in the District of Columbia.
Kimberly Noel `` Kim '' Kardashian ( born October 21, 1980 ) is an अमरीकी socialite, टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व and occasional actress.
In 2007, she gained notoriety as the subject of a sex tape that subsequently resulted in a court awarding उसके $ 5 लाख ; बाद in कि वही साल, वो और उसके परिवार रोज़ to prominence with their E !
reality television series Keeping Up with the kardashians, और इसके subsequent spin-offs, सहित कोर्टनी और किम लो नई यॉर्क और Kourtney and Kim Take Miami.
In 2010, कार्दशियन थी the highest-earning reality star, with estimated earnings of $ 6 million.
साथ बहनों कोर्टनी और khloé, कार्दशियन co-owns the fashion boutique chain D-A-S-H.
She has been शामिल in the उत्पादन of several lines of clothing and fragrances.
In August 2011, कार्दशियन शादीशुदा बास्केट खिलाड़ी क्रिस Humphries in a widely publicized ceremony.
That October, Kardashian दायर लिये तलाक following 72 दिनों of marriage.
The move garnered significant backlash इससे the मीडिया, जो labeled it a `` publicity stunt ''.
After 536 days, Kardashian और humphries पहुँचे an अघोषित उपनिवेश at the Los Angeles Superior Court, finalizing the divorce in April 2013.
Aerial view of Oahu साथ freeways और राजमार्गों, 3d computer-generated image
Fly-around tour of the island
Oahu ( ) or Oahu, known as `` the महफ़िल प्लेस '', is the तीसरा largest of the हवाई आइलैंड्स और the most populous of the islands in the U.S. state of Hawaii.
The state capital, Honolulu, is on oahu 's southeast coast.
Including small close-in offshore islands such as Ford Island and the islands in Kaneohe Bay और बंद the पूर्वी ( windward ) coast, it रै a कुल जमीन क्षेत्रफल of, making it the 20th largest island in the United States.
In the महानतम आयाम, इस volcanic island is long and across.
The लंबाई of the shoreline is.
The island is the result of two पृथक शील्ड ज्वालामुखी : waianae और koolau, साथ a व्यापक `` valley '' or saddle ( the central Oahu Plain ) between them.
The highest point is mt. ka'ala in the waianae दायरा, उठती to above sea level.
The base currency of the United States is the u.S. डालर, और is मुद्रित on बिल्स in denominations of $ 1, $ 2, $ 5, $ 10, $ 20, $ 50, and $ 100.
At one समय, however, u.S. करेंसी included five larger denominations.
Notes in the denominations of $ 500, $ 1,000, $ 5,000, and $ 10,000 यहूद मुद्रित लिये सामान्य उपयोग, और a $ 100,000 नोट थी मुद्रित लिये certain internal transactions.
British Honduras was a अंग्रेजों उपनिवेश in सेंट्रल America.
In 1981, the उपनिवेश gained पूरा स्वतंत्रता, and is now the independent nation of Belize.
First colonised by Spaniards in the 17th सदी, the territory on the ईस्ट coast of सेंट्रल अमेरिका, दक्षिण of मैक्सिको, became a अंग्रेजों क्राउन colony in 1862.
In 1964, it became a self-governing colony.
Belize became fully स्वतंत्र इससे the संयुक्त Kingdom in 1981.
Belize was the last continental कब्ज़ा of the संयुक्त किंगडम in the americas.
Spelt, also known as dinkel wheat, or hulled गेहूं, is an प्राचीन प्रजाति of गेहूं from the fifth millennium BC.
Spelt was an important staple in parts of Europe from the Bronze Age to medieval times ; it now survives as a relict क्रॉप in सेंट्रल यूरोपीय और उत्तरी स्पेन और रै मिला a नई मार्केट as a health food.
Spelt is sometimes माना a subspecies of the closely सम्बन्धित प्रजाति आम गेहूं ( T. aestivum ), in which case its botanical name is considered to be Triticum aestivum subsp. spelta.
It is a hexaploid गेहूं, जिससे अर्थात् it रै छह sets of chromosomes.
Sherlock Holmes ( or ) is a fictional detective निर्मित by लेखक और चिकित्सक सर आर्थर Conan Doyle.
A London-based `` परामर्श जासूस '' जिनकी abilities किनारा on the fantastic, holmes is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके कुटिल लॉजिकल तर्क, his ability to adopt almost any disguise, and his use of forensic science skills to solve difficult cases.
holmes, जो पहला appeared in प्रकाशन in 1887, was featured in four novels and 56 short stories.
The first novel, A Study in Scarlet, appeared in Beeton 's क्रिसमस सालाना in 1887 और the दूसरी, The Sign of the Four, in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine in 1890.
The character grew tremendously in popularity साथ the पहला श्रेणी of छोटी कहानियां in the strand पत्रिका, शुरूआत साथ a कांड in Bohemia in 1891 ; further series of short stories and two novels published in serial form appeared between then and 1927.
the कहानियां कवर a काल from around 1880 up to 1914.
All but four stories are narrated by Holmes 's friend and biographer, Dr. John H. Watson ; two are narrated by Holmes himself ( `` The Blanched Soldier `` और `` the शेर 's माने `` ) और दो अन्य हैं लिखा in the तीसरा व्यक्ति ( `` the mazarin स्टोन `` और `` उसके पिछला धनुष `` ).
In two stories ( `` The Musgrave अनुष्ठान `` और `` the ग्लोरिया स्कॉट `` ), holmes tells वाटसन the प्रमुख स्टोरी इससे उसके यादें, जबकि वाटसन becomes the narrator of the frame story.
The first and fourth novels, A Study in स्कारलेट और the Valley of Fear, each include a long interval of omniscient narration recounting events unknown to either Holmes or Watson.
The संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि is एक of the दो घरों of the United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is अक्सर referred to as the House.
The other हाउस is the Senate.
The composition and शक्तियां of the हाउस हैं स्थापित in Article One of the United States Constitution.
The major power of the हाउस is to pass संघीय विधान कि affects the संपूर्ण देश हालांकि इसके बिल्स जरूर भी be passed by the सीनेट और further agreed to by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless both the House and Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ).
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate आय बिल्स, to impeach officials, और to elect the u.S. अध्यक्ष in मामला वहीँ is no बहुमत in the Electoral College.
Each U.S. राज्य is represented in the हाउस in proportion to इसके जनसांख्यिकी लकिन is हकदार to at least one representative.
the सबसे populous राज्य, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, currently has 53 representatives.
the कुल क्रमांक of मतदान representatives is fixed by law at 435.
प्रत्येक प्रतिनिधि serves for a two-year term.
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, who presides over the chamber, is elected by the members of the हाउस, और is इसलिए traditionally the नेता of the हाउस लोकतांत्रिक caucus or the हाउस रिपब्लिकन सम्मेलन, whichever party has more voting members.
The House meets in the दक्षिण wing of the संयुक्त States Capitol.
Jell-O is a brand name belonging to U.S.-based Kraft Foods for a number of gelatin desserts, सहित फल gels, puddings और no-bake मलाई pies.
The brand 's popularity has led to it होने प्रयुक्त as a जेनेरिक पद लिये जिलेटिन मिठाई across the U.S. and Canada.
Kennywood is an amusement park located in वेस्ट mifflin, पेन्सिलवेनिया, a suburb of Pittsburgh.
The park first opened in 1898 as a `` trolley park '' आकर्षण at the समाप्त of the mellon परिवार 's monongahela गली रेल.
The park was purchased in 1906 by F. W. Henninger और एंड्रयू mcswigan और यूँ began the kennywood entertainment कम्पनी कि रै remained a closely आयोजित family business for over 100 years.
This traditional amusement park still has structures and rides dating वापस to इसके खोलने और the जल्दी 1900s.
Along with Rye Playland Park, it is one of only two मनोरंजन पार्क सूचीबद्ध in the नेशनल Register of Historic Places.
Kennywood is owned by Kennywood Entertainment Company, which until December 2007 was a closely आयोजित परिवार कारोबार स्वामित्व by the henninger और mcswigan families.
Kennywood entertainment is अभी संचालित by california-based राजमहल entertainment, a subsidiary of parques reunidos, an international amusement park company based in Madrid, Spain.
Parque Reunidos is in फेरे a subsidiary of candover निवेश, an investment fund based in the UK.
A Social Security card issued by the रेलरोड रिटायरमेंट फलक in 1943 to a अभी मृतक व्यक्ति.
In the United States, a Social सुरक्षा क्रमांक ( ssn ) is a nine-digit number issued to U.S. citizens, permanent residents, and temporary ( working ) residents under section 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the Social Security Act, codified as.
The number is जारी to an व्यक्तिगत by the सोशल सुरक्षा प्रशासन, an independent agency of the United States government.
Its primary purpose is to track individuals for Social Security purposes.
A Social Security number may be obtained by applying on Form ss-5, `` अनुप्रयोग लिये a सोशल सुरक्षा Number Card ''.
Minimalism describes movements in various forms of art and design, especially visual art and music, where the work is set out to expose the essence or पहचान of a विषय through eliminating सब non-essential फ़ॉर्म, सुविधाएँ or concepts.
minimalism is कोई डिज़ाइन or स्टाइल in जिससे the simplest and fewest elements are used to create the maximum effect.
As a specific गति in the कला it is पहचाना साथ developments in post–world War II Western Art, most strongly with American visual arts in the 1960s and early 1970s.
Prominent artists associated with इस गति शामिल डोनाल्ड judd, जॉन mccracken, agnes Martin, Dan Flavin, Robert Morris, Anne Truitt, and Frank Stella.
It is rooted in the reductive aspects of Modernism, और is प्रायः interpreted as a प्रतिक्रिया विरूद्ध अमूर्त अभिव्यंजनावाद और a सेतु to postminimal आर्ट practices.
The terms have विस्तारित to encompass a गति in म्यूज़िक जिससे सुविधाएँ repetition और iteration, as in the रचनाएं of la मोंटे यंग, टेरी Riley, Steve Reich, Philip Glass, and John Adams.
अल्पतम रचनाएं हैं sometimes ज्ञात as प्रणालियों music.
The term `` minimalist '' is often applied colloquially to designate anything that is spare or stripped to its essentials.
It has also been used to describe the plays and novels of सैमुएल beckett, the films of रॉबर्ट bresson, the कहानियां of रेमंड carver, और भी the ऑटोमोबाइल designs of Colin Chapman.
the शब्द थी पहला प्रयुक्त in अंग्रेज़ी in the जल्दी 20th सदी to describe the Mensheviks.
In chemistry and physics, Dalton 's law ( also called डाल्टन 's विधि of आंशिक pressures ) राज्य कि the कुल दबाव exerted by the mixture of non-reactive gases is equal to the sum of the partial pressures of individual gases.
This empirical law was observed by जॉन डाल्टन in 1801 और is सम्बन्धित to the ideal gas laws.
Mathematically, the दबाव of a मिश्रण of गैसों can be defined as the summation
or
where represent the आंशिक दबाव of प्रत्येक component.
It is assumed कि the गैसों do नहीं प्रतिक्रिया with each other
where is the mole fraction of the i-th component in the कुल मिश्रण of n components.
The relationship below provides a रास्ता to determine the आवाज़ आधारित विशेषज्ञता of any individual gaseous component
where is the विशेषज्ञता of the i-th घटक expressed in ppm.
Dalton 's law is नहीं exactly followed by real gases.
those deviations हैं considerably large at high pressures.
In such conditions, the आवाज़ occupied by the अणुओं can become significant compared to the free space between them.
In particular, the short average distances between अणुओं उठाता the तीव्रता of intermolecular शक्तियां between गैस अणुओं पर्याप्त to substantially बदलें the दबाव exerted by them.
Neither of those effects are माना by the आदर्श गैस मॉडल.
This is a list of the largest United States colleges and universities by नामांकन लिये कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों in the संयुक्त States.
What this सूची शामिलs:
Colleges and विश्वविद्यालयों भीतर the संयुक्त States
विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणालियों if the प्रणाली is चलाएं अंतर्गत a single administration
Enrollment is the योग of the headcount of undergraduate and graduate students
Enrollment is counted by the Integrated post-secondary शिक्षा प्रणाली भीतर the u.S. विभाग of Education.
नामांकन is the 12-month unduplicated headcount, indicating the number of unique students who attended the university during the year.
What this सूची करता not include:
Any indication of how many of the enrolled विद्यार्थी हैं पूरा or भाग समय ( e.g., कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों may have a ऊँची नामांकन, लकिन have सबसे विद्यार्थी enrolled in only a single class )
For other lists that measure विश्वविद्यालयों नामांकन, देखिए the See Also section below.
`` Right Round '' is a सोंग performed by अमरीकी rapper flo rida, released as the सीसे सिंगल इससे उसके second studio album, R.O.O.T.S. ( 2009 ).
the सोंग सुविधाएँ अतिथि vocals from Kesha.
It थी released to रेडियो on 27 January 2009 and was digitally released on 10 February by Poe Boy Entertainment and Atlantic Records.
The song lyrically speaks of Flo Rida 's net ball referee enthusiasm, while adapting the कोरस of the 1984 मुर्दे or जिंदा सोंग `` तुम स्पिन me गोलाकार ( जैसे a रिकार्ड ) `` in its hook.
According to one of the song 's लेखक, the कोरस refers to मौखिक sex.
Kesha contributed guest vocals to the सोंग, लकिन in the संयुक्त States, during the run atop the chart, Kesha was uncredited.
The song प्राप्त ज़्यादातर ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, जो claimed it was kitsch and misogynistic.
However, it was a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी, reaching the शीर्ष टेन of the charts in nineteen countries worldwide.
In the United States, it became Flo Rida 's second number-one single और broke the रिकार्ड लिये first-week बिक्री जब it was released to digital retailers.
The single 's accompanying म्यूज़िक वीडियो थी निर्देशित by मैल्कम जोन्स and nominated for an MTV Video Music Award.
The song रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in अनेक फिल्मों, ऐसे as The Hangover, The Ugly Truth and the Telugu movie Pilla Zamindar.
In the movie पिच पूर्ण, the सोंग is performed by the a cappella समूह the Treblemakers.
the मुख्य इंसाफ of the संयुक्त राज्य is the सिर of the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय अदालत प्रणाली ( the judicial branch of the federal government of the United States ) and the chief judge of the Supreme Court of the United States.
The Chief Justice is one of nine Supreme Court justices ; the other eight are the संबद्ध justices of the परम् अदालत of the संयुक्त राज्य.
From 1789 until 1866, the दफ्तर थी ज्ञात as the मुख्य इंसाफ of the Supreme Court.
The मुख्य इंसाफ is the उच्चतम न्यायिक अधिकारी in the देश, और अधिनियमों as a मुख्य प्रशासनिक अधिकारी लिये the संघीय न्यायालयों और as सिर of the Judicial Conference of the United States appoints the director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.
The मुख्य इंसाफ भी serves as a spokesperson for the judicial branch.
The Chief Justice leads the कारोबार of the परम् अदालत.
he presides over मौखिक वितर्क before the court.
When the court renders an opinion, the मुख्य justice—when in the majority—decides who writes the court 's opinion.
the मुख्य इंसाफ भी रै significant agenda-setting power over the court 's meetings.
in the मामला of an महाभियोग of a अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, जिससे रै occurred twice, the Chief Justice presides over the trial in the Senate.
In modern tradition, the Chief Justice has the ceremonial duty of administering the शपथ of दफ्तर of the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States.
the पहला मुख्य इंसाफ was John Jay.
The 17th and current Chief Justice is जॉन G. रॉबर्ट्स, Jr.
हिरण निकट prudhoe Bay, 1973
prudhoe खाड़ी आयल फ़ील्ड is a विशाल आयल फ़ील्ड on Alaska 's North Slope.
It is the largest आयल फ़ील्ड in दोनो the संयुक्त राज्य और in उत्तर America, covering and originally containing approximately of oil.
The amount of recoverable oil in the फ़ील्ड is अधिक than दोगुना कि of the अगला largest फ़ील्ड in the United States, the East Texas oil field.
The field is operated by bp ; साझेदार हैं exxonmobil and ConocoPhillips Alaska.
Labor unions are legally recognized as प्रतिनिधि of मजदूर in अनेक उद्योग in the संयुक्त राज्य.
उनके कार्यकलाप आज centers on सामूहिक bargaining over मजदूरी, लाभ, और working शर्तें लिये उनके सदस्यता, and on representing their members in disputes with management over violations of contract provisions.
Larger unions also typically engage in lobbying क्रियाएँ और electioneering at the state and federal level.
Most unions in America are aligned with one of two larger umbrella संगठन : the afl-cio निर्मित in 1955, और the बदलें to जीत संघ जिससे विभाजित from the AFL-CIO in 2005.
Both एडवोकेट नीतियों और विधान on निमित्त of मजदूर in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा, and take an active role in politics.
The AFL-CIO is especially चिंतित साथ वैश्विक व्यापार issues.
In 2010, the percentage of workers belonging to a union in the United States ( or total labor union `` घनत्व '' ) थी 11.4 %, compared to 18.4 % in जर्मनी, 27.5 % in कनाडा, और 70 % in फिनलैंड.
Union सदस्यता in the निजी सेक्टर रै गिरे अंतर्गत 7 % — स्तर not seen since 1932.
संघ allege कि employer-incited opposition has contributed to this decline in membership.
The most prominent unions हैं among पब्लिक सेक्टर कर्मचारी ऐसे as teachers and police.
Members of संघ हैं disproportionately पुरानी, पुरूष और निवासियों of the Northeast, the Midwest, and California.
Union मजदूर औसत 10-30 % उच्चतर अदा than non-union in अमेरिका after controlling for individual, job, and labor market characteristics.
Although much छोटी compared to उनके शिखर सदस्यता in the 1950s, अमरीकी संघ remain a prominent राजनैतिक फ़ैक्टर, both through mobilization of their own memberships and through coalitions with like-minded activist organizations around issues such as immigrant rights, trade policy, health care, and living wage campaigns.
To fight alleged employer anti-union कार्यक्रम, संघ हैं फिलहाल वकालत नई `` कार्ड जाँच `` संघीय legislation that would require employers to bargain with a union if more than 50 % of workers signed forms, or `` cards, '' stating they wish to be represented by that union.
The current कार्यविधि involves प्रतीक्षारत 45 to 90 दिनों लिये a federally supervised secret-ballot employee referendum on the subject.
The economist Joseph Stiglitz has asserted that, `` Strong unions have helped to reduce inequality, whereas weaker unions have made it easier for CEOs, sometimes working साथ मार्केट शक्तियां कि वे have helped आकार, to बढ़ाएँ it. ''
The decline in unionization चूंकि wwii in the संयुक्त राज्य रै महरूम संबद्ध with a pronounced rise in income and wealth inequality.
A Christian lacroix फ़ैशन boutique
A boutique is a small shopping outlet, विशेषकर एक कि specializes in elite और फैशनेबल वस्तुएं ऐसे as कपडे and jewelry.
The word is French लिये `` दूकान '', via लैटिन इससे यूनानी ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ), `` storehouse ''.
The term entered into रोज अंग्रेज़ी उपयोग in the लेट 1960s जब, लिये a ब्रैड period, London was the centre of the fashion trade.
Carnaby Street and the Kings Road were the focus of much मीडिया ध्यान as घर to the सबसे फैशनेबल boutiques of the era.
Now the East of London has been regenerated और अधिक boutiques पॉप up in फैशनेबल क्षेत्रों, ऐसे as मीनार सेतु Road.
It can also refer to a specialised कड़ ऐसे as a boutique investment bank or boutique law firm.
The word is often used to describe a प्रॉपर्टी in the स्वतंत्र खण्ड of the होटल मार्केट ( ऐसे as the rockwell in लंदन ) in अनुक्रम to फर्क themselves इससे larger chains ( such as Hilton Hotels ).
In such cases the establishments aim to convey the विचार कि the आपरेशन is elite and highly specialised.
In the strictest sense of the word, boutiques would be one-of-a-kind लकिन अधिक generally बोलना, कुछ जंजीरों can be referred to as boutiques if वे specialize in particular styles.
Recently, the term `` boutique '' has प्रारंभ होने लागू to normally-mass-market वस्तुएं कि हैं either niche or उत्पादित in intentionally small numbers at very high prices.
This may be referred to as बुटीक manufacturing.
For उदाहरण, पहले the रिलीज of the वी, a समय पत्रिका आलेख सुझाया कि निन्टेंडो could become a `` boutique video-game company '', producing games for niche audiences, rather than trying to compete directly with Microsoft and Sony.
In the traditional luxury- watch industry Scalfaro International is considered as the precursor in निर्माण और बिक्री of bespoke watches.
The Swiss company uses a highly लचीली बुटीक निर्माण साईट, जिससे allows producing छोटी श्रेणी or even unique timepieces.
Although some boutiques specialise in hand-made वस्तुएं और अन्य truly one-of-a-kind वस्तुएं, अन्य simply produce t-shirts, stickers, and other fashion accessories in artificially small runs and sell them at unusually high prices.
In the early 1990s Selena प्रारंभ निर्माण उसके अपना लकीर of महिलाओं 's clothing.
Opening two boutiques labeled as `` सेलिना इत्यादि. बुटीक & सैलून '' One located in Corpus Christi and one located in San Antonio, Texas.
One थी due to खोलें in monterrey, Mexico, in 1995 but due to her death it was not opened.
Around 1999 the San Antonio location बंद और the कॉर्पस christi स्थान was closed in 2009.
In late 1990s some European retail traders विकसित the विचार of tailoring a दूकान towards a जीवनशैली थीम, in the रूप of `` अवधारणा stores '', which specialised in cross-selling without using separate departments.
One of the first concept stores was 10 Corso Como in Milan, इटली followed by colette in पेरिस और quartier 206 in Berlin.
Several well-known American chains such as Urban Outfitters, D-A-S-H, and The Gap, ऑस्ट्रेलियाई कड़ी billabong और, हालांकि कम आम, रब & टेलर adapted to the concept store trend after 2000.
Navy Federal Credit Union ( or Navy Federal ) is a credit संघ headquartered in वियना, वर्जिनिया, चार्टर्ड और regulated अंतर्गत the प्राधिकार of the National Credit Union Administration ( NCUA ) of the U.S. federal government.
Navy Federal is the largest natural member ( or retail ) क्रेडिट संघ in the संसार, दोनो in एसेट आकार और in membership.
As of सितंबर 2012, नेवी संघीय था over $ 50 अरब usd in एसेट, and over 4 million members.
Stevland Hardaway Morris ( born May 13, 1950 as Stevland Hardaway Judkins ), known by his stage name Stevie Wonder, is an American singer, songwriter, और multi-instrumentalist, a चाइल्ड prodigy जो विकसित into एक of the सबसे रचनात्मक musical आंकड़े of the late 20th century.
Blind since shortly after birth, Wonder signed with Motown 's Tamla label at the age of eleven, और continues to perform और रिकार्ड लिये motown to this day.
Among Wonder 's best known works are singles ऐसे as `` अंधविश्वास ``, `` सर ड्यूक ``, `` तुम हैं the सनशाइन of My Life `` and `` I Just Called to Say I Love You ``.
Well known albums also शामिल talking किताब, innervisions और गीतों in the कुंजी of जीवन.
He has recorded more than thirty U.S. top ten hits और प्राप्त twenty-two ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, the सबसे कभी awarded to a male solo artist.
Wonder is भी विख्यात लिये उसके कार्य as an activist लिये राजनैतिक कल्याणकारी, सहित उसके 1980 अभियान to मेक मार्टिन Luther King, Jr. 's birthday a holiday in the United States.
In 2009, अचरज थी नामित a संयुक्त राष्ट्र मेसेंजर of Peace.
In 2008, Billboard magazine released a list of the Hot 100 all-time शीर्ष कलाकारों to celebrate the us singles चार्ट 's पचासवें वर्षगांठ, साथ अचरज at क्रमांक five.
By popular vote, Stevie was inducted into The SoulMusic Hall of कीर्ति at soulmusic.com in दिसम्बर 2012.
Psychosis ( from the Greek ψυχή `` psyche '', for mind/soul, and -ωσις `` -ओएसआईs '', लिये असामान्य कंडीशन or derangement ) refers to an असामान्य कंडीशन of the mind, and is a generic psychiatric term for a mental state often described as involving a `` loss of contact with reality ``.
People suffering इससे मनस्ताप हैं वर्णित as psychotic.
Psychosis is given to the more severe forms of psychiatric disorder, during which hallucinations and delusions, सकल उत्तेजना or बेहोशी और impaired insight may occur.
The term `` psychosis '' is very broad and can औसत anything इससे अपेक्षाकृत सामान्य aberrant अनुभवों through to the जटिल और catatonic expressions of schizophrenia and bipolar type 1 disorder.
Moreover a wide किस्में of सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली रोगों, इससे both external substances and internal physiologic illness, can produce symptoms of psychosis.
This led many professionals to say that psychosis is नहीं विशिष्ट पर्याप्त as a निदान term.
Despite this, `` psychosis '' is generally दिए to noticeable deficits in सामान्य बर्ताव ( ऋणात्मक लक्षण ) और अधिक commonly to विविध प्रकार of मति or delusional beliefs ( e.g. grandiosity, delusions of persecution ).
Someone exhibiting बहुत स्पष्ट लक्षण may be वर्णित as `` frankly psychotic '', whereas एक exhibiting बहुत subtle signs could be classified in the category of an `` attenuated psychotic risk syndrome ''.
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the positive symptoms of psychosis, especially those of schizophrenia.
This is thought to occur through a यांत्रिकी of aberrant salience of पर्यावरणीय stimuli.
Many antipsychotic drugs accordingly target the dopamine system ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled ट्रायल of ये दवाएँ, however, दिखाएँ either no significant अंतर between ड्रग और placebo, or a बहुत छोटी प्रभाव आकार, suggesting कि the pathophysiology of psychosis is much more complex than an overactive dopamine system.
People experiencing psychosis may प्रदर्शनी कुछ व्यक्तित्व परिवर्तन और विचार विकार.
Depending on its severity, this may be accompanied by unusual or bizarre behavior, as well as परेशानी साथ सोशल बातचीत और पुतलियों in carrying आउट रोज़ जीवन क्रियाएँ.
General Grievous is a fictional अक्षर in the स्टार Wars universe.
A recurring antagonist, he is the Supreme Commander of the Confederacy of Independent प्रणालियों, a राजनैतिक गुट of ग्रहीय प्रणालियों waging युद्ध on the गांगेय Republic.
Trained in all seven forms of lightsaber combat by गिनती dooku, he is a निष्ठुर और शक्तिशाली योद्धा devoted to Jedi 's destruction during the Clone Wars.
His acts of wanton aggression and high Jedi body गिनती होता संकेत the आकाशगंगा to दे उसे the उपनाम the knightslayer.
Though the notorious Jedi slayer was the होने in the आकाशगंगा दौरान the क्लोन युद्धों जो था मारे the सबसे जेडी in सिंगल कॉम्बैट, he किया not hesitate to flee from battles he knew he would lose.
Statistics खेल an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in summarizing बेसबॉल प्रदर्शन and evaluating players in the sport.
Since the flow of a baseball game has natural breaks to it, and normally players अधिनियम individually बल्कि than performing in क्लस्टर, the खेल lends itself to आसान record-keeping and statistics.
आंकडे have महरूम रखा लिये पेशेवर बेसबॉल चूंकि the सृष्टि of the नेशनल League and American League, now part of Major League Baseball.
Many आंकडे हैं भी उपलब्धियाँ इससे बाहर of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल, इससे लीग ऐसे as the नेशनल Association of Professional Base Ball Players and the Negro Leagues.
dorothea lange 's migrant माँ depicts अक्षम मटर pickers in कैलिफ़ोर्निया, centering on फ्लोरेंस Owens Thompson, age 32, a mother of seven children, in Nipomo, California, March 1936.
USA annual real GDP from 1910–60, साथ the सालो of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960, साथ the सालो of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted.
The Great Depression was a severe worldwide economic अवसाद in the दशक preceding संसार War II.
The timing of the Great अवसाद varied आरपार राष्ट्र, लकिन in most countries it started in 1930 and lasted until the late 1930s or middle 1940s.
It थी the longest, सबसे फैली, और deepest अवसाद of the 20th century.
In the 21st सदी, the ग्रेट अवसाद is commonly used as an example of how far the world 's economy can decline.
The अवसाद originated in the u.S., बाद the पतन in भण्डार prices that began around September 4, 1929, and became worldwide news with the stock market crash of October 29, 1929 ( known as Black Tuesday ).
The Great अवसाद था विनाशकारी effects in countries rich and poor.
Personal income, tax revenue, profits and prices dropped, जबकि अंतरराष्ट्रीय trade plunged by more than 50 %.
Unemployment in the u.S. रोज़ to 25 %, और in some countries rose as high as 33 %.
Cities all around the संसार यहूद hit मुश्किल, विशेषकर those निर्भर on heavy industry.
Construction थी वस्तुतः halted in many countries.
Farming and rural areas suffered as क्रॉप कीमतें गिरी by लगभग 60 %.
Facing plummeting demand with few alternate sources of कार्य, क्षेत्रों निर्भर on प्राथमिक सेक्टर उद्योग ऐसे as cash cropping, mining and logging suffered the most.
कुछ economies प्रारंभ to रिकवर by the mid-1930s.
In many देशों, the ऋणात्मक प्रभाव of the ग्रेट अवसाद lasted जबतक the end of World War II.
A premature ventricular contraction ( PVC ), also known as a premature ventricular complex, ventricular premature contraction ( or जटिल or देवालय ) ( vpc ), ventricular असामयिक ताल ( vpb ), or ventricular extrasystole ( ves ), is a अपेक्षाकृत आम इवेंट जहाँ the heartbeat is initiated by Purkinje fibres in the ventricles rather than by the sinoatrial node, the normal heartbeat initiator.
The electrical events of the heart detected by the electrocardiogram allow a पीवीसी to be easily distinguished from a normal heart beat.
A PVC may be perceived as a `` skipped beat `` or लगा as palpitations in the छाती.
In a normal heartbeat, the ventricles अनुबंध बाद the atria have helped to भरण उन्हें by contracting ; in इस रास्ता the ventricles can pump a maximized amount of blood both to the lungs and to the rest of the body.
In a PVC, the ventricles contract first and before the atria have optimally भर the ventricles साथ रक्त, जिससे अर्थात् कि परिसंचरण is inefficient.
However, सिंगल ताल पीवीसी arrhythmias do नहीं usually pose a danger and can be asymptomatic in healthy individuals.
William Gary Busey ( born जून 29, 1944 ), बेहतर ज्ञात as गेरी busey, is an अमरीकी film and stage actor, and artist.
He has appeared in a किस्में of films, सहित lethal हथियार, पाइंट ब्रेक, और अंतर्गत घेरा, as खूब as guest appearances on Gunsmoke, Walker, Texas Ranger, Law & Order, and Entourage.
He was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor in 1978 लिये उसके भूमिका in the दोस्त होली Story.
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ( ACTA ), is a multinational treaty for the purpose of establishing अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानकों लिये बौद्धिक प्रॉपर्टी rights enforcement.
The agreement aims to establish an अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधिक फ्रेमवर्क लिये लक्ष्यीकरण नकली goods, जेनेरिक दवाइयाँ और कापीराइट infringement on the अंतरजाल, और होता create a new governing body outside existing forums, such as the World Trade Organization, the World Intellectual Property Organization, or the United Nations.
The अनुबंध थी हस्ताक्षरित in अक्तूबर 2011 by ऑस्ट्रेलिया, कनाडा, Japan, Morocco, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, and the United States.
In 2012, Mexico, the European संघ और 22 देशों जिससे हैं सदस्य राज्य of the European Union signed as well.
One signatory ( Japan ) has ratified ( formally approved ) the agreement, which होता आइये into फ़ोर्स in देशों कि ratified it बाद ratification by six countries.
Supporters have described the agreement as a जवाब to `` the बढ़ाएँ in वैश्विक व्यापार of नकली goods और pirated कापीराइट सुरक्षित works ''.
Trades Unions representing workers in the music, film और tv उद्योग और विशाल बौद्धिक property-based संगठन ऐसे as the गति चित्र संघ of अमेरिका और फार्मास्युटिकल Research and Manufacturers of America were active in the treaty 's development.
Opponents say the convention adversely affects fundamental rights including स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति and privacy.
ACTA has also been criticised by Doctors Without Borders for endangering अभिगम to दवाइयाँ in विकासशील countries.
The secret nature of negotiations has excluded civil society groups, developing countries and the general public from the अनुबंध 's negotiation प्रक्रम और it रै महरूम वर्णित as नीति laundering by आलोचकों सहित the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Entertainment Consumers Association.
The signature of the EU and many of its member राज्य resulted in the इस्तीफा in विरोध of the यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट 's नियुक्त chief investigator, rapporteur Kader Arif, as well as widespread protests across Europe.
In 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur, British MEP David Martin, recommended against the treaty, stating : `` The intended लाभ of इस अंतरराष्ट्रीय अनुबंध हैं दूर outweighed by the संभावित खतरे to civil liberties ''.
On 4 July 2012, the European Parliament rejected the agreement in plenary session, साथ 478 मतदान विरूद्ध the सन्धि, 39 in पक्ष और 165 meps abstaining.
faw semi-trailer truck in China
ट्रैक्टर साथ पक्ष डम्प ट्रेलर semi-trailer
A ट्रैक्टर साथ an auto-transport semi-trailer.
Semi-trailer truck with स्लीपर पीछे the cab.
A semi-trailer truck is an articulated vehicle that consists of a towing engine, known as a tractor in the संयुक्त राज्य और ट्रक in अनेक अन्य स्थान, संलग्न to एक or अधिक semi-trailers to carry freight.
It is also known as a transport in Canada, prime mover in Australia, सेमी, tractor-trailer, ट्रक और ट्रेलर, ट्रांसफ़र ट्रक, 18-wheeler, mack ट्रक, बिग रिग in the संयुक्त राज्य, or artic, short for articulated lorry, in Britain and Ireland.
A semi-trailer does not trail completely behind the towing गाडी, लकिन is संलग्न at a पाइंट कि is बस आगे of the rear-most धुरी of the towing unit.
इस is किया so कि a भिन्न of the वज़न of the trailer is carried by the prime mover.
This व्यवस्था अर्थात् कि दोनो ट्रैक्टर और semi-trailer होगा have a distinctly different design than a rigid truck and trailer.
The पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स हैं a पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल टोली based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
The team currently belongs to the North Division of the American Football Conference ( afc ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( NFL ).
Founded in, the स्टीलर्स हैं the oldest franchise in the AFC.
Pittsburgh has won अधिक सुपर कटोरी शीर्षक ( छह ), जीती अधिक afc चैंपियनशिप खेल ( आठ ) और निभाई in ( पंद्रह ) और hosted अधिक ( ग्यारह ) conference championship games than any other AFC or NFC team.
The स्टीलर्स share the रिकार्ड लिये सबसे सुपर कटोरी दिखावे with the Dallas Cowboys ( eight ).
The Steelers won उनके सबसे हाल चैंपियनशिप, सुपर कटोरी xliii, on February 1, 2009.
The Steelers were founded as the पिट्सबर्ग pirates on जुलाई 8, 1933, by आर्ट रूनी, लेने इसके असली नाम इससे the baseball team of the same name, as was common practice for NFL teams to do at the time.
The स्वामित्व of the स्टीलर्स रै remained within the Rooney family since its founding.
The वर्तमान मालिक is आर्ट 's बेटे, डान रूनी, जो रै दिए much कंट्रोल of the franchise to his son Art Rooney II.
Long one of the NFL 's flagship teams, the स्टीलर्स आनंद a विशाल, फैली fanbase nicknamed steeler स्वदेश.
The Steelers currently play their home games at Heinz फ़ील्ड on पिट्सबर्ग 's उत्तर पक्ष in the उत्तर shore पड़ोस, which also hosts the University of Pittsburgh Panthers.
Built in 2001, the stadium replaced Three नदियाँ स्टेडियम जिससे hosted the स्टीलर्स लिये 31 seasons.
Prior to Three Rivers, the Steelers had निभाई उनके खेल in pitt Stadium and Forbes Field.
Three different kinds of गेहूं और rye आटा
Flour is a powder which is made by पीस खाद्यान्न दाने, or अन्य बीज or roots ( like Cassava ).
it is the प्रमुख संघटक of ब्रैड, जिससे is a स्टेपल खाना लिये अनेक संस्कृतियों, बनाना the उपलब्धता of adequate supplies of flour a major economic and political issue at various times throughout history.
Wheat flour is one of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण भोजन in यूरोपीय, उत्तर अमरीकी, मध्य पूर्वी, भारतीय और उत्तर अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों, और is the धमक ingredient in most of their styles of breads and pastries.
While wheat is the most common base for flour, corn flour has महरूम महत्वपूर्ण in mesoamerican भोजन चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स, और remains a स्टेपल throughout the americas.
Rye flour is an महत्वपूर्ण constituent of ब्रैड in much of central Europe, and rice can also be used in flour, though this is relatively uncommon.
Heart rate is the number of heartbeats per ईकाई of समय, typically expressed as बीट्स per minute ( bpm ).
Heart rate can vary as the body 's need to absorb oxygen and excrete कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड परिवर्तन, ऐसे as दौरान शारीरिक कसरत, नींद, बीमारी, or as a परिणाम of ingesting drugs :
Central nervous system stimulants such as amphetamines बढ़ाएँ दिल रेट.
Central nervous system depressants or sedatives decreases the दिल रेट ( अलावा इससे कुछ विशेषकर अजीब ones साथ बराबर अजीब प्रभाव, such as ketamine which can cause - amongst many other things - stimulant-like effects such as tachycardia ).
There are अनेक तरीके in जिससे the दिल रेट speeds up or slows down.
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormones being released in the दिमाग, अनेक of जिससे हैं those that are 'forced'/'enticed ' out by the ingestion and processing of drugs.
Due to individuals having a निरंतर रक्त आवाज़, एक of the physiological तरीके to उद्धार अधिक ऑक्सीजन to an organ is to increase heart rate to permit blood to pass by the organ more often.
Normal resting दिल दरों दायरा इससे 60-100 bpm.
Bradycardia is defined as a resting दिल रेट नीचे 60 bpm.
However, दिल दरों इससे 50 to 60 bpm हैं common among healthy people and do not necessarily require special attention.
Tachycardia is defined as a resting heart rate above 100 bpm, though persistent rest rates between 80-100 bpm, mainly if they are present दौरान नींद, may be लक्षण of हाइपरथाइरॉयडिज़्म or रक्ताल्पता ( see below ).
Catherine II 's carved, painted and gilded राजतिलक कोच ( hermitage Museum )
A carriage is a wheeled vehicle for लोगों, प्रायः horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) और सेडान chairs are excluded, since they are wheelless vehicles.
The carriage is विशेषकर designed लिये निजी यात्री use and for comfort or elegance, though some are also used to transport goods.
It may be light, smart और तेज़ or भारी, विशाल और आरामदायक.
Carriages normally have बर्खास्तगी using पत्ता स्रोतों, अंडाकार स्रोतों ( in the 19th century ) or leather strapping.
A public passenger vehicle होता नहीं प्रायः be पुकारा a carriage – terms for such include stagecoach, charabanc and omnibus.
Working vehicles such as the ( four-wheeled ) wagon and ( two-wheeled ) cart share important parts of the history of the carriage, as is the तेज़ ( two-wheeled ) chariot.
The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake was an undersea megathrust earthquake that occurred at 00:58:53 UTC on संडे, 26 दिसम्बर 2004, साथ an epicentre बंद the वेस्ट coast of Sumatra, Indonesia.
The quake itself is known by the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ as the sumatra–andaman earthquake.
The resulting tsunami was given various names, including the 2004 भारतीय समंदर सुनामी, दक्षिण एशियाई सुनामी, इंडोनेशियाई सुनामी, और the मुक्केबाज़ी दिन tsunami.
The earthquake was caused by subduction and triggered a series of विनाशकारी tsunamis साथ the coasts of सबसे landmasses bordering the भारतीय समंदर, हत्या over 230,000 लोगों in चौदह देशों, और inundating coastal communities with waves up to high.
It was one of the deadliest प्राकृतिक आपदाओं in recorded history.
इंडोनेशिया थी the hardest-hit देश, followed by श्री लंका, India, and Thailand.
साथ a परिमाण of mw 9.1–9.3, it is the तीसरा largest earthquake ever recorded on a seismograph.
The earthquake had the longest अवधि of faulting कभी observed, between 8.3 and 10 minutes.
It caused the संपूर्ण ग्रह to हिलना as much as and triggered other earthquakes as far away as Alaska.
इसके epicentre थी between simeulue और मेनलैंड Indonesia.
The plight of the affected people and countries prompted a विश्वव्यापी humanitarian response.
In all, the worldwide community donated more than $ 14 अरब ( 2004 us $ ) in humanitarian aid.
Steam उठती इससे the nesjavellir geothermal Power Station in Iceland.
Geothermal energy is थर्मल उर्जा उत्पन्न और भंडारित in the धरती.
Thermal energy is the उर्जा कि determines the temperature of matter.
The Geothermal energy of the धरती 's क्रस्ट originates इससे the असली गठन of the ग्रह ( 20 % ) and from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ).
The geothermal gradient, which is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and its surface, drives a निरन्तर conduction of थर्मल उर्जा in the रूप of ऊष्मा इससे the कोर to the surface.
The adjective geothermal originates इससे the यूनानी जड़ें γη ( ge ), meaning earth, and θερμος ( thermos ), meaning hot.
At the core of the धरती, थर्मल उर्जा is निर्मित by रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय and temperatures may reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ).
Heat conducts from the कोर to surrounding कूलर rock.
The high तापमान और दबाव कारण कुछ चट्टान to melt, creating magma convection upward since it is lighter than the solid rock.
The magma heats चट्टान और जल in the क्रस्ट, sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ).
From hot springs, geothermal उर्जा रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये स्नान चूंकि paleolithic टाइम्स और लिये स्पेस हीटिंग since ancient Roman times, but it is now better known for electricity generation.
Worldwide, about 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal शक्ति is online in 24 countries.
An अतिरिक्त 28 gigawatts of सीधा geothermal हीटिंग क्षमता is संस्थापित लिये ज़िला हीटिंग, space heating, spas, industrial processes, desalination and agricultural applications.
Geothermal power is cost effective, reliable, चिरस्थायी, और environmentally दोस्ताना, लकिन रै historically महरूम सीमित to क्षेत्रों निकट tectonic थाली boundaries.
Recent technological अग्रिम have dramatically विस्तारित the दायरा और आकार of सुगठित संसाधन, विशेषकर for applications such as home heating, opening a potential for widespread exploitation.
Geothermal wells release ग्रीनहाउस गैसों फंस गहन भीतर the धरती, लकिन ये emissions हैं much निम्नतर प्रति उर्जा ईकाई than those of fossil fuels.
As a result, geothermal power has the potential to help mitigate global वार्मिंग if widely तैनात in प्लेस of चट्टान fuels.
The Earth 's geothermal संसाधन हैं theoretically अधिक than पर्याप्त to सप्लाई मानवता 's उर्जा needs, लकिन only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited.
Drilling and खोजी लिये गहन संसाधन is very expensive.
Forecasts for the future of geothermal शक्ति निर्भर on assumptions परिचय प्रौद्योगिकी, उर्जा prices, subsidies, and interest rates.
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in ग्रीन शक्ति कार्यक्रम दिखाएँ कि ग्राहक होता be willing to अदा a छोटी अधिक लिये a बेदर्दी energy source like geothermal.
But as a result of government assisted शोध और उद्योग अनुभव, the लागत of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades.
in 2001, geothermal energy cost between two and ten cents per kwh.
The term cubic foot is an इम्पीरियल और us प्रथागत ( non- मीट्रिक ) ईकाई of आवाज़, प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त राज्य and the United Kingdom.
It is defined as the आवाज़ of a घन साथ पहलू of एक पैर ( 0.3048 m ) in length.
To गणना घन फीट गुणा length X width X height.
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern Vietnamese pronunciation :, Southern Vietnamese pronunciation : ) ; 19 may 1890 – 2 सितंबर 1969 ), born nguyễn sinh cung और भी ज्ञात as nguyễn tất thành और nguyễn ái quốc, थी a वियतनामी कम्युनिस्ट क्रांतिकारी नेता जो थी प्रधान मंत्री ( 1945–1955 ) and president ( 1945–1969 ) of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam ( North Vietnam ).
He was a key figure in the foundation of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1945, as खूब as the people’s फौज of वियतनाम ( pavn ) और the Việt Cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the Vietnam War.
he led the việt मिन्ह स्वतंत्रता गति इससे 1941 onward, establishing the कम्युनिस्ट -नियमd लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of वियतनाम in 1945 and defeating the French Union in 1954 at the battle of Điện Biên Phủ.
He officially stepped down from शक्ति in 1955 due to स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं, लकिन remained a अत्यधिक दृश्य figurehead और प्रेरणा लिये those Vietnamese fighting for his cause—a united, communist Vietnam—until his death.
बाद the युद्ध, साइगॉन, पूंजी of the Republic of Vietnam, was renamed Hồ Chí Minh City.
All Roads Lead Home is a विशेषता फिल्मी released on सितंबर 26, 2008.
Directed by Dennis Fallon, it stars Peter Boyle, Patton Oswalt, Jason लंदन, vivien cardone, वैनेसा शाखा, पीटर कायोटी, स्टीफन मिल्टन, और Allan Kayser.
the फिल्म थी फिल्माया in and around Kansas City, Missouri.
The फिल्म बना इसके संसार प्रीमियर जनवरी 27 at the Santa Barbara International Film Festival.
The film has also recently been in several फिल्मी त्यौहार, और रै प्राप्त ख़राब समीक्षाएँ.
Peter Boyle died पहले the फिल्म 's रिलीज.
It was the last movie he appeared in.
Sales taxes in the United States are taxes placed on the sale or lease of goods और सेवाएं in the संयुक्त राज्य.
While no national general sales tax exists, the federal सरकारी levies अनेक नेशनल चयनात्मक बिक्री कर on the sale or lease of particular goods and services.
Furthermore, forty-five राज्य, the ज़िला of कोलंबिया, और गुआम थोपने सामान्य बिक्री कर कि लागू to the बिक्री or पट्टे of सबसे goods और कुछ सेवाएं, और राज्य भी may levy selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods or services.
States may also delegate to लोकल सरकारें the प्राधिकार to थोपने अतिरिक्त सामान्य or selective sales taxes.
Sales कर is गणना by multiplying the खरीदें price by the applicable tax rate.
Tax rates vary widely by क्षेत्राधिकार और दायरा from less than 1 % to over 10 %.
Sales tax is एकत्रित by the विक्रेता at the time of sale.
Use tax is self assessed by a buyer who has नहीं सशुल्क बिक्री कर on a taxable खरीदें.
Unlike the value added tax, a sales tax is imposed only एकबार, at the खुदरा स्तर.
However, in मामले जहाँ वस्तुएं हैं बेची at खुदरा अधिक than एकबार, ऐसे as प्रयुक्त गाड़ियाँ, the sales tax can be charged on the same item indefinitely.
The definition of खुदरा बिक्री और कया goods और सेवाएं are taxable vary among the states.
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous श्रेणी of goods और सेवाएं कि हैं exempt from sales tax, or taxed at reduced rates.
The खरीदें of goods लिये further manufacture or for resale is uniformly exempt from sales tax.
Most jurisdictions exempt food sold in grocery stores, नुस्खा medications, और अनेक agricultural आपूर्तियाँ.
Sales taxes, including those imposed by local सरकारें, हैं generally administered at the state level.
States imposing sales कर आवश्यकता खुदरा विक्रेता to collect कर इससे ग्राहक, file returns, and remit the tax to the state.
प्रक्रियात्मक नियम vary widely.
Sellers generally जरूर collect कर इससे in-state purchasers जबतक the purchaser provides an exemption certificate.
Most states allow or आवश्यकता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक remittance.
A central processing unit ( CPU ), also referred to as a central processor unit, is the hardware within a computer that carries out the instructions of a computer program by performing the मौलिक अंकगणितीय, लॉजिकल, और input/output परिचालन of the system.
The term has been in use in the कंप्यूटर उद्योग at तनिक चूंकि the early 1960s.
The रूप, डिज़ाइन, और क्रियान्वयन of CPUs have changed over the course of their history, but their fundamental operation remains much the same.
A कंप्यूटर can have अधिक than एक cpu ; this is called multiprocessing.
Some integrated circuits ( ICs ) can contain multiple cpu on a सिंगल चिप ; those ics हैं पुकारा multi-core processors.
Two typical components of a CPU are the arithmetic logic unit ( ALU ), which performs arithmetic and लॉजिकल परिचालन, और the कंट्रोल ईकाई ( cu ), जिससे extracts instructions from memory and decodes and executes them, calling on the ALU when necessary.
Not all computational systems rely on a सेंट्रल प्रसंस्करण ईकाई.
An array processor or वेक्टर प्रोसेसर रै अनेक समानांतर कम्प्यूटिंग तत्व, with no one unit considered the `` center ''.
In the distributed computing model, problems are solved by a वितरित interconnected नियत of processors.
RFID chip next to a अनाज of राइस.
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an external magnetic field to transfer a coded पहचान क्रमांक जब queried by a reader device.
This small type is incorporated in consumer products, और implanted in पालतु, for identification purposes.
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र आंकड़ा, लिये the उद्देश्य of automatically identifying और tracking tags attached to objects.
The tags contain electronically भंडारित सूचना.
Some tags are powered and read at short ranges ( a few meters ) via चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड ( इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक प्रेरण ).
Others use a local power source such as a battery, or else have no बैटरी लकिन collect उर्जा इससे the interrogating em फ़ील्ड, और तब अधिनियम as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e., electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ).
Battery powered tags may operate at सैंकड़ों of meters.
Unlike a bar code, the tag does not necessarily need to be within line of sight of the reader, और may be अंतःस्थापित in the tracked ऑब्जेक्ट.
RFID tags are used in अनेक उद्योग.
An RFID tag attached to an automobile दौरान उत्पादन can be प्रयुक्त to track इसके प्रगति through the assembly line.
दवाएँ can be tracked through warehouses.
Livestock and pets may have टैग injected, allowing धनात्मक पहचान of the animal.
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing, possessions, or भी implanted भीतर लोगों, the सम्भावना of पढना personally-linked सूचना without consent has raised privacy concerns.
Overtime is the राशि of समय किसी works beyond normal working hours.
Normal hours may be संकल्पित in अनेक ways:
by custom ( कया is माना स्वस्थ or उचित by society ),
by practices of a दिए व्यापार or profession,
by legislation,
by agreement between employers और मजदूर or उनके प्रतिनिधि.
Most nations have ओवरटाइम मजदूर कानून designed to dissuade or prevent employers from forcing their employees to work excessively long hours.
These laws may लो into खाता अन्य considerations than the humanitarian, such as preserving the health of workers so that they may continue to be productive, or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy.
One आम दृष्टिकोण to regulating ओवरटाइम is to आवश्यकता नियोक्ता to अदा मजदूर at a higher hourly rate for overtime work.
कंपनियाँ may चुनें to अदा मजदूर उच्चतर ओवरटाइम अदा भी if not obliged to do so by law, particularly if they believe that they face a backward bending supply curve of labour.
Overtime pay rates can cause workers to कार्य longer घंटों than वे होता at a flat hourly rate.
Overtime laws, attitudes toward overtime and घंटों of कार्य vary greatly इससे देश to देश और between different economic sectors.
Visualization of कड़ी between पृष्ठों on a विक using a force-directed layout.
force-directed आलेख आरेखण algorithms हैं a class of algorithms for drawing graphs in an aesthetically pleasing way.
Their purpose is to स्थिति the नोड of a आलेख in two-dimensional or three-dimensional स्पेस so कि सब the किनारे हैं of अधिक or कम बराबर लंबाई और वहीँ हैं as few क्रासिंग किनारे as संभावित, by assigning शक्तियां among the नियत of किनारे और the नियत of nodes, based on their relative positions, and then using these forces either to simulate the motion of the edges and nodes or to minimize their energy.
While graph drawing can be a difficult problem, force-directed algorithms, होने शारीरिक simulations, प्रायः आवश्यकता no खास ज्ञान परिचय graph theory such as planarity.
Purchasing power ( sometimes retroactively called adjusted for महंगाई ) is the राशि of goods or सेवाएं कि can be खरीदा साथ a ईकाई of करेंसी.
For example, if you had taken one dollar to a store in the 1950s, तुम होता have महरूम समर्थ to ख़रीदे a वृहद क्रमांक of वस्तुएं than you would today, indicating that you would have had a greater purchasing power in the 1950s.
Currency can be either a कमोडिटी धन, जैसे सुनहरा or चांदी, or fiat करेंसी, or free-floating market-valued currency like US dollars.
As Adam Smith noted, having money gives one the ability to `` command '' others ' मजदूर, so खरीदना शक्ति to कुछ extent is शक्ति over अन्य लोगों, to the extent that they are willing to trade their labor or goods for money or currency.
if एक 's मौद्रिक आय stays the वही, लकिन the price level increases, the purchasing power of that income falls.
Inflation does not always imply falling purchasing power of one 's धन आय चूंकि it may वृद्धि तेज़ than the दाम स्तर.
A higher real income means a higher खरीदना शक्ति चूंकि रियल आय refers to the आय समायोजित लिये inflation.
For a price index, its value in the base year is usually सामान्यीकृत to a मान of 100.
The purchasing power of a unit of करेंसी, कह a डालर, in a दिए साल, expressed in डॉलर of the आधार साल, is 100/P, where P is the price index in that year.
So, by definition the खरीदना शक्ति of a डालर decreases as the price level rises.
the खरीदना शक्ति in आज 's धन of an राशि c of धन, t सालो into the future, can be computed with the formula for the present value :
where in this case i is an assumed भविष्य सालाना महंगाई rate.
शिक्षा in दक्षिण कोरियाई is viewed as being crucial for success and competition is consequently very heated and fierce.
A central administration oversees the process for the education of children इससे किंडरगार्टन to the तीसरा और final year of high school.
Mathematics, science, Korean, English, and सोशल अध्ययन हैं generally माना to be the सबसे important subjects.
Normally physical education is not considered important as it is not recognised, by the generally अकादमिक elitist दक्षिण कोरियाई populace, as शिक्षा और इसलिए अनेक स्कूलों lack high-quality gymnasiums and varsity athletics.
South Korea was the first country in the संसार to provide high-speed अंतरजाल अभिगम to सब प्राथमिक, जूनियर, and high schools.
Although दक्षिण कोरियाई विद्यार्थी प्रायः रैंक अत्यधिक on अंतरराष्ट्रीय तुलनात्मक आकलन जब compared to students of most Western education systems, the South Korean education system is criticised for emphasising too much upon passive learning and memorisation.
The South Korean education प्रणाली is बल्कि notably सख्त और overly संरचित as compared to its counterparts in most Western societies.
Also, the prevalence of non-school for-profit private institutes such as academies or cram-schools ( Hagwon [ 학원 ] ), which too emphasise on passive memorisation, as opposed to conceptual समझना, in विद्यार्थी हैं criticised as a प्रमुख सोशल प्रॉब्लम.
The My Lai Massacre (, ;,, or ) was the Vietnam War mass murder of between 347 and 504 unarmed civilians in South Vietnam on March 16, 1968, by United States Army soldiers of `` Charlie '' Company of 1st Battalion, 20th infantry रेजीमेंट, 11th ब्रिगेड of the americal Division.
Victims included women, men, children, और infants.
Some of the women were gang-raped and their bodies were later मिला to be mutilated और अनेक महिलाओं यहूद allegedly raped prior to the killings.
While 26 U.S. soldiers were initially चार्ज साथ दण्ड offenses लिये उनके क्रियाएँ at mỹ lai, तभी दूसरी लेफ्टिनेंट William Calley, a platoon leader in Charlie Company, was convicted.
मिला अपराधी of हत्या 22 ग्रामीणों, he थी originally दिए a जीवन sentence, but only served three and a half years under house arrest.
The massacre took प्लेस in the hamlets of my lai और my khe of Son My village.
The event is also known as the Son my नरसंहार, विशेषकर in the वियतनामी राज्य media.
The U.S. सैन्य codeword लिये the `` Viet Cong stronghold '' was `` Pinkville ''.
The incident prompted वैश्विक आक्रोश जब it became पब्लिक ज्ञान in 1969.
The massacre also increased domestic विपक्ष to the u.S. भागीदारी in the वियतनाम War.
Three U.S. servicemen who had tried to halt the massacre and protect the wounded यहूद initially denounced by अनेक u.s. कांग्रेसियों as traitors.
They received hate मेल और मौत खतरे और मिला mutilated पशु on their doorsteps.
The three were later widely praised और सजा by the फौज for their heroic actions.
The hijackers in the September 11 attacks were 19 मेन संबद्ध साथ al-qaeda, और 15 of the 19 were citizens of Saudi Arabia.
Others were इससे मिश्र, लेबनान, और the UAE.
The hijackers यहूद व्यवस्थित into चार टीमों, प्रत्येक led by a pilot-trained hijacker with four `` muscle hijackers '' who were trained to help subdue the pilots, passengers, and crew.
The first hijackers to arrive in the United States यहूद खालिद al-mihdhar और nawaf al-hazmi, जो settled in the San Diego area in January 2000.
They यहूद followed by तीन hijacker-pilots, मोहम्मद atta, marwan al-shehhi, and Ziad Jarrah early in the summer of 2000 to undertake flight training in south Florida.
The fourth hijacker-pilot, hani hanjour, arrived in सैन डिएगो in दिसम्बर 2000.
The rest of the `` मांसपेशी hijackers '' arrived in the वसन्त and early summer of 2001, just months before the September 11 attacks.
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 जून 632 ), भी transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ), थी a धार्मिक, राजनैतिक, और military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam.
he is believed by मुसलमान और bahá'ís to be a messenger and prophet of God.
Muhammad is almost universally माना by मुसलमान as the पिछला नबी भेजा by God for mankind.
non-muslims लिहाज़ मुहम्मद as the founder of Islam.
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an अनछुए असली monotheistic आस्था of आदम, नूह, अब्राहम, Moses, Jesus, and other prophets.
Born in about 570 ce in the arabian नगर of मक्का, he थी अनाथ at an जल्दी age and brought up under the care of his uncle Abu Talib.
He later worked mostly as a व्यापारी, as खूब as a गड़रिये, and was first married by age 25.
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a गुफा in the surrounding kyu लिये अनेक nights of seclusion and prayer, he later reported that it was there, at age 40, that he received his first revelation from God.
Three years after this इवेंट मुहम्मद प्रारंभ उपदेश ये खुलासे सरेआम, proclaiming that `` God is One ``, that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit.
islām ) is the तभी रास्ता ( dīn ) स्वीकार्य to परमेश्वर, और that he himself was a prophet and messenger of God, in the same vein as other Islamic prophets.
Muhammad gained few followers early on, and was met with hostility इससे कुछ meccan जनजातियों ; he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता यहूद treated harshly.
To escape persecution, Muhammad sent some of his followers to अबीसीनिया पहले he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता in मक्का migrated to मदीना ( तब ज्ञात as yathrib ) in the year 622.
This event, the Hijra, marks the beginning of the Islamic पंचांग, जिससे is भी ज्ञात as the Hijri Calendar.
In Medina, Muhammad united the जनजातियों अंतर्गत the संविधान of Medina.
After eight years of लड़ साथ the meccan जनजातियों, उसके अनुसरणकर्ता, जो by तब था grown to 10,000, took कंट्रोल of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca.
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his अनुसरणकर्ता आउट to नष्ट सब of the बाकी pagan temples in Eastern Arabia.
In 632, a few months after returning to मदीना इससे the विदाई यात्राएं, मुहम्मद गिरी बीमार and died.
By the time of his death, most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam, और he था संयुक्त अरब into a सिंगल मुस्लिम धार्मिक polity.
The खुलासे ( or ayah, lit.
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — जिससे मुहम्मद reported receiving जबतक उसके मौत – रूप the आयतें of the कुरान, regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based.
Besides the Quran, Muhammad 's जीवन ( सिरा ) और परंपराओं ( सुन्नत ) हैं भी upheld by मुसलमान as the स्त्रोत of sharia law.
They discuss Muhammad and other prophets of Islam with reverence, adding the phrase सलाम be upon उसे whenever उनके names are mentioned.
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern times were largely ऋणात्मक, appraisals in आधुनिक इतिहास have महरूम far less so.
This is a सूची of टेबल of the सत्यापित oldest लोगों in the world in ordinal rank, such as oldest person or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is माना 'verified ' if उसके or उसके अर्जी रै महरूम validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह that specifically deals in longevity research, such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records.
The longest unambiguously प्रलेखित इंसान जीवनकाल is कि of jeanne calment of France ( 1875–1997 ), who died at age 122 years, 164 days.
She met Vincent van Gogh when वो थी 12 or 13.
इस led to न्यूज मीडिया ध्यान in 1985, after Calment turned 110.
Subsequent investigation found दस्तावेज़ीकरण लिये calment 's आयु, परे कोई उचित सवाल, in the रिकॉर्ड of उसके native city, Arles, France.
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for कोई अन्य supercentenarian ; उसके मामला serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed जीवनकाल लिये पुरूष supercentenarians is कि of Jiroemon Kimura, who currently lives in Japan and is age as of.
Since the death of 115-year old Dina manfredini of the संयुक्त राज्य, on 17 दिसम्बर 2012, किमुरा, born 19 अप्रैल 1897, is the oldest जीना व्यक्ति in the world whose age can be documented.
He has also been the oldest जीना man चूंकि the मौत of 114-year old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011.
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013, the oldest living स्त्री रै महरूम -year-old misao okawa, भी इससे जापानी, born on 5 कूच 1898.
This is a समयरेखा of the african-american Civil Rights Movement.
the सिविल अधिकारों गति थी a स्वतंत्रता संघर्ष by African Americans in the 1950s and 1960s to gain equality.
The goals of the movement were freedom from discrimination, equal अवसर in नियुक्ति, शिक्षा और आवास, the right to vote and equal access to public facilities.
Heavy metal ( often referred to as metal ) is a genre of rock music that विकसित in the लेट 1960s और जल्दी 1970s, largely in the United Kingdom and in the United States.
With roots in blues rock and psychedelic rock, the bands that created heavy metal विकसित a मोटा, विशाल ध्वनि, characterized by अत्यधिक प्रवर्धित distortion, extended guitar solos, emphatic beats, and overall loudness.
Heavy metal lyrics and performance styles are generally संबद्ध साथ मर्दानगी and machismo.
The first heavy metal bands such as Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple and Black Sabbath attracted large audiences, though they were often derided by आलोचकों, a औकात आम throughout the इतिहास of the genre.
In the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur the genre 's evolution by discarding much of its blues influence ; motörhead introduced a पंक चट्टान sensibility और an increasing जोर on speed.
Bands in the New Wave of British Heavy Metal such as Iron maiden followed in a समान रग.
पहले the समाप्त of the दशक, भारी metal fans became known as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers ``.
During the 1980s, glam मेटल became a वाणिज्यिक फ़ोर्स साथ समूह जैसे mötley Crüe and Poison.
Underground scenes produced an array of more extreme, aggressive styles : thrash metal broke into the mainstream with bands ऐसे as मेटालिका, मेगाडेथ, slayer, और एंथ्रेक्स, जबकि अन्य शैलियाँ of the सबसे चरम subgenres of metal like death metal and black metal remain subcultural phenomena.
Since the mid-1990s, popular styles such as nu metal, which often incorporates elements of grunge and hip hop ; and metalcore, जिससे मिश्रणों चरम मेटल साथ हार्डकोर पंक, have further विस्तारित the परिभाषा of the genre.
The far-right ( also known as the चरम सही ) refers to the highest degree of rightism in right-wing politics.
Far right politics involves support of strong or पूरा सोशल पदानुक्रम in समाज, और supports सर्वोच्चता of निश्चित individuals or समूह deemed to be innately श्रेष्ठ or preferable who are to be more valued than those deemed to be innately inferior or undesirable.
The far right 's वकालत of supremacism is आधारित on कया इसके adherents perceive as innate characteristics of people that can not be changed.
This stands as a point of अंतर साथ the centre-right 's आरोपण of behaviours, ऐसे as आलस्य or decadence, as the primary sources of social inequalities.
The centre right—unlike the दूर right—claims कि लोगों can समाप्त उनके behavioural हीनता through changing their habits and choices.
The original far right, which emerged in France after the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति, refused to accept the फ्रेंच गणतंत्र और समर्थित a counter-revolution to restore the French monarchy and aristocracy.
The far सही is commonly संबद्ध साथ व्यक्तियों or समूह जो थाम extreme nationalist, xenophobic, racist, religious fundamentalist or reactionary views.
The most extreme-right आंदोलनों have धड़ा दमन और नरसंहार विरूद्ध समूह of people on the basis of their alleged inferiority.
Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury ( 5 April 1588 – 4 दिसम्बर 1679 ), in कुछ पुरानी ग्रन्थ थामस हाब्स of malmsbury, थी an अंग्रेज़ी philosopher, best known today for his work on political philosophy.
His 1651 book Leviathan established the foundation for most of पश्चिमी राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र इससे the परिप्रेक्ष्य of सोशल contract theory.
Hobbes was a champion of absolutism for the sovereign, but he also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought : the सही of the व्यक्तिगत ; the प्राकृतिक समता of सब मेन ; the कृत्रिम अक्षर of the राजनैतिक अनुक्रम ( जिससे led to the बाद भेद between सिविल समाज और the राज्य ) ; the दृश्य कि सब legitimate राजनैतिक शक्ति जरूर be `` representative '' and based on the consent of the people ; and a liberal interpretation of law which leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid.
He was one of the founders of आधुनिक राजनैतिक philosophy.
His understanding of humans as being matter and motion, obeying the वही शारीरिक कानून as अन्य पदार्थ और गति, remains influential ; और उसके खाता of इंसान प्रकृति as self-interested सहयोग, और of राजनैतिक communities as being based upon a `` social contract `` remains one of the major topics of political philosophy.
In addition to political दर्शनशास्त्र, hobbes भी contributed to a विविध सरणी of अन्य फ़ील्ड, including history, geometry, the physics of gases, theology, ethics, and general philosophy.
Emotional intelligence ( EI ) is the ability to identify, assess, and control the भाव of oneself, of अन्य, and of groups.
It can be विभाजित into क्षमता ei और trait EI.
Ability EI is usually measured using maximum performance परीक्षण और रै stronger संबंध साथ परंपरागत प्रज्ञा, whereas trait EI is usually measured using self-report questionnaires and has stronger relationships with personality.
Criticisms have centered on whether EI is a real प्रज्ञा और whether it रै वृद्धिशील वैध over iq और the बिग पाँच personality traits.
Heredity is the गुजर of traits to औलाद इससे its parents or ancestor.
This is the process by जिससे an औलाद कोशिका or सजीव acquires or becomes predisposed to the characteristics of its parent cell or organism.
Through heredity, variations exhibited by individuals can accumulate और कारण कुछ प्रजाति to evolve.
The study of आनुवंशिकता in जीवविज्ञान is पुकारा आनुवंशिकी, जिससे शामिल the फ़ील्ड of epigenetics.
For United States व्यक्तिगत आय कर, समायोजित सकल आय ( AGI ) is total gross income minus specific reductions.
Taxable income is adjusted gross income minus भत्तों लिये निजी छूटों और itemized deductions.
For most व्यक्तिगत कर उद्देश्य, agi is अधिक प्रासंगिक than gross income.
Gross income is sales price of goods or प्रॉपर्टी, ऋण लागत of the प्रॉपर्टी बेची, प्लस अन्य income.
It includes wages, interest, dividends, कारोबार आय, rental आय, and all other types of income.
Adjusted सकल आय is सकल आय कम deductions इससे a कारोबार or rental activity and 21 other specific items.
Several deductions ( e.g. medical खर्च और विविध itemized deductions ) हैं सीमित आधारित on a percentage of AGI.
Certain phase outs, including those of निम्नतर कर दरों और itemized deductions, are based on levels of AGI.
अनेक राज्य आधार राज्य आय tax on AGI with certain deductions.
`` Lazy Eye '' is the third single from Silversun pickups ' डेब्यू एल्बम carnavas.
the बैंड performed the सोंग on the लेट दिखाएँ साथ दाउद लेटरमैन, the tonight Show with Jay Leno, Later With Jools Holland, and Last Call with Carson Daly.
The song is a playable track on चट्टान बैंड 2 और गिटार नायिका : संसार Tour.
An वैकल्पिक संस्करण of the सोंग, साथ a लंबाई of 7:27, थी निभाई on xmu पहले the shorter version was played on FM and other XM channels.
This version was featured on their demo cd ( जिससे प्रदर्शित जल्दी संस्करण of four tracks ).
A telephone prefix is the first set of digits of a telephone number ; in the North अमरीकी क्रमांकन योजना देशों ( देश कोड 1 ), it is the पहला तीन अंक of a seven-digit फोन number.
In other countries both the prefix and the क्रमांक may have अलग lengths.
It shows जिससे एक्सचेंज the बाकी संख्याएँ refer to.
A full telephone number is usually made up of देश कोड ( जरूरी लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय काल्स तभी ), क्षेत्रफल कोड ( जरूरी लिये काल्स between टेलीफोन areas ), prefix, and subscriber number.
Some places सीमित निश्चित prefixes to फैक्स संख्याएँ or कोशिका फोन तभी ; in अन्य स्थान such dedicated prefixes are not used.
As telephone technology advanced, the precise significance of the उपसर्ग became धुंधला in अनेक स्थान ; 485 in लंदन, uk, थी एकबार the gulliver एक्सचेंज, लकिन अभी 44207485xxxx is बस माना एक of many number blocks served by the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another.
Metformin ( bp, सुनाया, ; originally बेची as glucophage ) is an oral antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class.
It is the first-line drug of choice for the treatment of type 2 मधुमेह, in particular, in overweight और मोटे लोगों और those साथ सामान्य गुर्दा फलन.
Its use in gestational मधुमेह रै महरूम सीमित by सुरक्षा चिंताएं.
It is also used in the treatment of polycystic ovary सिंड्रोम, और रै महरूम investigated लिये अन्य रोगों जहाँ insulin resistance may be an important factor.
Metformin works by suppressing ग्लूकोज उत्पादन by the liver.
Metformin is the तभी antidiabetic ड्रग कि रै महरूम conclusively दिखाया to prevent the cardiovascular complications of diabetes.
It helps reduce LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and is नहीं संबद्ध साथ वज़न gain.
, metformin is एक of तभी दो मौखिक antidiabetics in the World Health Organization Model List of Essential Medicines ( the other being glibenclamide ).
When prescribed appropriately, metformin कल्याणकारी few प्रतिकूल प्रभाव ( the सबसे आम is gastrointestinal upset ) and is associated with a low risk of hypoglycemia.
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the blood ) can be a serious concern in overdose and when it is prescribed to लोगों साथ contraindications, लकिन वरना, वहीँ is no significant risk.
First synthesized and found to reduce रक्त शुगर in the 1920s, metformin थी forgotten लिये the अगला दो दशकों as research shifted to insulin and other antidiabetic drugs.
Interest in metformin was rekindled in the late 1940s after several reports that it could reduce रक्त शुगर स्तर in लोगों, और in 1957, फ्रेंच चिकित्सक Jean Sterne published the first clinical trial of metformin as a treatment for diabetes.
It was introduced to the संयुक्त किंगडम in 1958, कनाडा in 1972, और the United States in 1995.
Metformin is now believed to be the most widely prescribed antidiabetic drug in the world ; in the United States alone, more than 48 लाख prescriptions यहूद भर in 2010 लिये इसके जेनेरिक formulations.
The Mount Rushmore National Memorial is a मूर्तिकला carved into the ग्रेनाइट फेस of माउंट rushmore निकट keystone, दक्षिण डकोटा, in the संयुक्त States.
Sculpted by Danish-American Gutzon Borglum and his son, Lincoln Borglum, Mount Rushmore features sculptures of the heads of चार संयुक्त राज्य राष्ट्रपतियों : जार्ज वॉशिंगटन, थामस Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln.
The entire memorial कवर और is ऊपर समुद्र level.
The tallest mountain in the प्रदेश is harney शिखर ( ).
South Dakota historian Doane Robinson is credited with conceiving the विचार of नक्काशी the likenesses of प्रसिद्ध people into the Black Hills region of South Dakota in order to promote tourism in the region.
Robinson 's आरंभिक विचार थी to sculpt the needles ; however, gutzon borglum अस्वीकृत the needles साईट क्युकी of the ग़रीब विशेषता of the granite and strong opposition from environmentalists and Native American groups.
They settled on the माउंट rushmore स्थान, जिससे भी रै the लाभ of facing southeast for maximum sun exposure.
Robinson wanted it to feature पश्चिमी नायक जैसे लुईस और क्लार्क, रेड बादल और भैंस विधेयक कोड़ी लकिन borglum decided the मूर्तिकला चाहिए have a अधिक national focus, and chose the four presidents whose likenesses would be carved into the mountain.
After securing federal funding, निर्माण on the मेमोरियल began in 1927, और the राष्ट्रपतियों ' चेहरों यहूद समाप्त between 1934 and 1939.
Upon gutzon borglum 's मौत in कूच 1941, उसके बेटे lincoln Borglum took over construction.
Although the initial concept called for each president to be depicted from सिर to कमर, कमी of funding मजबूर निर्माण to समाप्त in late October 1941.
The u.S. नेशनल पार्क सेवा took कंट्रोल of the मेमोरियल in 1933, जबकि it थी स्टिल under construction, and has managed the memorial to the present day.
it attracts nearly three million people annually.
charvet पोशाक कमीज़ इससे the 1930s, Norsk Folkemuseum, Oslo.
A shirt, dress shirt, button-front, button-front कमीज़, or button-up कमीज़ is a परिधान साथ a कॉलर, a full-length खोलने at the front from the collar to the hem, and sleeves with cuffs.
Shirts are predominantly used by men, since women प्रायः पहनें blouses.
The front opening is fastened using बटन or studs, और the cuffs बंद साथ बटन or cuff links.
Shirts are normally made from woven cloth, and are often accompanied by a jacket and tie, for उदाहरण साथ a सूट or formalwear, लकिन शर्ट हैं भी worn more casually.
In अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी, पोशाक कमीज़ अर्थात् specifically the अधिक औपचारिक evening garment worn with black- or white- tie, also discussed below.
Some of these औपचारिक शर्ट have stiff fronts और detachable collars attached with collar studs.
The term `` button-down '' ( which refers a type of shirt which has a collar fastened down by buttons ) is sometimes used in error to लागू to सब शर्ट ( साथ or बगैर buttoned bas छल्लों ), होने प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय लिये `` button-up '' or `` button-front ''.
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in अनेक देशों to recognize the कार्य of secretaries, प्रशासनिक assistants, receptionists, और अन्य प्रशासनिक support professionals.
In North अमेरिका, it is मनाये on the बुधवार of the पिछला पूरा week of April ( April 24 in 2013 ).
in फ़्रांस it is मनाये on the third Thursday in April ( April 18 in 2013 ).
In ऑस्ट्रेलिया it is मनाये on the first Friday in May
धमाकेदार can be:
अक्खड़ धमाकेदार
धमाका भट्टी
चट्टान धमाकेदार
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 नवम्बर 1665 ) थी the अग्रणी चित्रकार of the शास्त्रीय फ्रेंच बरॉक स्टाइल, हालांकि he spent most of his working life in Rome.
His work is characterized by स्पष्टता, लॉजिक, और अनुक्रम, और favors line over color.
Until the 20th century he remained a प्रमुख प्रेरणा लिये ऐसे classically उन्मुख कलाकारों as Jacques-Louis David, Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres and Paul Cézanne.
He worked in Rome for a circle of leading collectors there and elsewhere, except for a short काल जब कार्डिनल रिचलू ordered उसे वापस to फ़्रांस to serve as पहला Painter to the King.
Most of his works हैं इतिहास paintings of धार्मिक or पौराणिक विषय that very often have a large landscape element.
Jackie Keith Whitley ( July 1, 1954Stambler, Irwin, and Grelun Landon ( 2000 ). - Country Music : The Encyclopedia. - New York : St. Martin 's Press. - p.533. - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin, Richard ( 2003 ). - Country Music : A Biographical Dictionary. - New York : Routledge - p.427. - isbn 978-0-415-93802-0.—larkin, कोलिन ( 1995 ). - the गिनीज ज्ञानकोष of लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक. - नई यॉर्क : स्टॉकटन दबायें - p.4462. - isbn 978-0-85112-662-3.—stanton, स्कॉट ( 2003 ). - the tombstone पर्यटक : संगीतकारों. - नई यॉर्क : जेब किताबे. - p.395. - isbn 978-0-7434-6330-0.—hicks, जोकर. - `` सिंगर कैथ whitley 's मेमोरी जिंदा through गीतों, प्रेम in घर कस्बा ''. - the केंटकी पोस्ट. - सितंबर 25, 1991.— '' Country Music Star Keith Whitley Dead at 33 ''. - Lexington Herald-Leader. - May 10, 1989.——Hurst, Jack. - `` Whitley 's Last Days ''. - Chicago Tribune. - May 14, 1989.— '' Alcohol Kills Country Singer Keith Whitley ''. - United Press International. - ( c/o The San Francisco Chronicle ). - May 10, 1989. — May 9, 1989 ), known professionally as Keith Whitley, was an American country music singer.
Whitley 's brief career in mainstream country music lasted from 1984 until his death in 1989, but he continues to influence an संपूर्ण पीढी of गायकों और songwriters.
He charted 19 singles on the Billboard देश चार्ट, सहित पाँच लगातार क्रमांक ones : `` do n't बंद अपना आँखें ``, `` जब तुम Say Nothing at All ``, `` I 'm No Stranger to the Rain ``, `` I Wonder Do You Think of Me `` and `` It Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two posthumously ).
statute of ग्रैंड duchy of Lithuania, written in Polish
A statute is a formal लिखा enactment of a विधान authority that governs a state, city, or county.
typically, statutes कमांड or prohibit something, or declare policy.
The word is often used to distinguish law बना by विधान लाशें इससे मामला विधि, decided by न्यायालयों, और regulations issued by government agencies.
Statutes हैं sometimes referred to as legislation or `` black letter law. ''
As a source of law, statutes हैं माना प्राथमिक authority ( as opposed to secondary authority ).
Ideally all statutes must be in harmony with the आधारभूत विधि of the जमीन ( संवैधानिक ).
इस शब्द is प्रयुक्त in contradistinction to the common law.
statutes acquire उनके फ़ोर्स इससे the समय of उनके passage, however unless otherwise provided.
Statutes are of अनेक kinds ; namely, Public or private.
declaratory or remedial.
अस्थाई or perpetual.
A temporary statute is एक जिससे is सीमित in इसके अवधि at the time of its enactment.
It continues in force until the time of its limitation has expired, जबतक sooner repealed.
A perpetual statute is one for the फिराकर of जिससे वहीँ is no सीमित समय, हालांकि it may नहीं be expressly declared to be so.
If, however, a statute which did नहीं itself contain कोई limitation is to be governed by another जिससे is अस्थाई तभी, the पूर्व will also be temporary and dependent upon the existence of the latter.
Before a statute becomes law in some countries, it must be सहमत upon by the उच्चतम कार्यपालिका in the सरकारी, और आखिरकार published as part of a code.
In many countries, statutes हैं व्यवस्थित in topical इंतजाम ( or `` संहिताबद्ध '' ) भीतर publications called codes, such as the United States Code.
In many nations statutory law is विशिष्ट इससे और अधीनस्थ to संवैधानिक law.
the बाह्य iliac धमनियों हैं दो प्रमुख धमनियों जिससे bifurcate off the common iliac arteries anterior to the sacroiliac joint of the pelvis.
They proceed anterior and अवर साथ the medial किनारा of the psoas major muscles.
They exit the pelvic girdle posterior and inferior to the inguinal ligament परिचय एक तीसरा laterally इससे the प्रविष्ट पाइंट of the वंक्षण स्नायु on the pubic tubercle at which point they are referred to as the femoral arteries.
The external iliac artery is usually the धमनी प्रयुक्त to संलग्न the renal धमनी to the प्राप्तकर्ता of a kidney transplant.
Steam is a digital distribution, digital rights management, एकाधिक और संचार मंच विकसित by Valve Corporation.
It is used to distribute games and related media online, from small independent developers to larger तन्त्र घरों ; in अक्तूबर 2012, वाल्व विस्तारित the सेवा to शामिल non-gaming तन्त्र.
Steam provides the user with संस्थापना और स्वचालित प्रबन्धन of तन्त्र आरपार अनेक कंप्यूटर, community features such as friends lists and groups, cloud saving, and in-game voice and chat functionality.
The software provides a freely available application programming interface, Steamworks, that डेवलपर can लो लाभ of to integrate अनेक of भाप 's कृत्यों भीतर उनके तन्त्र उत्पाद, सहित नक़ल सुरक्षा, नेटवर्किंग और matchmaking, in-game उपलब्धियाँ और micro-transactions, and support for user-created content through Steam Workshop.
Though initially विकसित लिये उपयोग on microsoft खिड़कियाँ, the क्लाएंट रै विस्तारित to शामिल os x और लिनक्स संस्करण, और क्लाइंट साथ सीमित कार्यक्षमता on the प्लेस्टेशन 3 console and for both iOS and Android mobile devices.
In जोड to होने a सेंट्रल हब लिये गेमिंग तन्त्र, वाल्व रै निर्मित a संस्करण of Steam with altered functionality to be used in schools for educational software, including a modified version of Portal 2 for teaching science and critical thinking lessons.
, there are nearly 2000 खेल उपलब्धियाँ through भाप, और 54 लाख active user accounts.
As of January 2013, Steam has seen over 6.6 लाख संयुक्त खिलाड़ी.
Steam has an estimated 50–70 % share of the डिजिटल वितरण मार्केट for video games.
The Steam logo is a stylised left-side fly-crank और लाठी इससे the walschaerts वाल्व गियर of a steam locomotive.
Jerry Lewis ( born March 16, 1926 ) is an American comedian, actor, सिंगर, फिल्मी निर्माता, screenwriter और फिल्मी director.
He is known for his slapstick ह्यूमर in फिल्मी, टेलीविज़न, stage and radio.
He was originally paired up with Dean मार्टिन in 1946, forming the famed कॉमेडी team of Martin and Lewis.
In जोड to the duo 's लोकप्रिय nightclub कार्य, वे स्ट्रक्चर in a successful series of comedy films for Paramount Pictures.
Lewis is also known for his charity fund-raising telethons और स्थिति as नेशनल अध्यक्ष लिये the Muscular Dystrophy Association ( MDA ).
Lewis has won several awards for आजीवन उपलब्धियाँ इससे the अमरीकी कॉमेडी पुरस्कार, लॉस एंजिल्स फिल्मी आलोचकों संघ, और वेनिस फिल्मी पर्व, और he रै दो stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
In 2005, he received the Governors Award of the Academy of टेलीविज़न कला & sciences फलक of राज्यपालों, जिससे is the highest Emmy Award presented.
On फ़रवरी 22, 2009, the अकादमी of गति चित्र Arts and Sciences awarded Lewis the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award.
The Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European river that runs from the Swiss canton of Grisons in the southeastern स्विस ऐल्प्स through जर्मनी और आखिरकार बहती into the उत्तर समुद्र coast in the नीदरलैंड्स और is the बारहवीं longest नदी in यूरोपीय, at परिचय, साथ an average discharge of more than.
The Rhine and the Danube formed सबसे of the उत्तरी अंतर्देशीय frontier of the रोमन साम्राज्य और, चूंकि those दिनों, the राइन has been a vital and navigable waterway carrying trade and goods deep inland.
It has also served as a defensive feature और रै महरूम the आधार लिये क्षेत्रीय और international borders.
The many castles and prehistoric fortifications along the राइन गवाही to इसके महत्व as a जलमार्ग.
River traffic could be रोका at ये स्थितियाँ, प्रायः लिये the purpose of collecting tolls, by the state that controlled that portion of the river.
श्री ( सिंहली )
Sri ( Devanagari : श्री, IAST ; Śrī ), also transliterated as Sree or Shri or Shree is a word of Sanskrit origin, used in the Indian उपमहाद्वीप as विनम्र रूप of पता समतुल्य to the अंग्रेज़ी `` mr. '' in लिखा और बोला भाषा, or as a शीर्षक of veneration लिये deities ( प्रायः translated as `` Holy '' ).
Design of complex structures like the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस स्टेशन needs in-depth समझना of Structural Analysis.
Civil अभियान्त्रिकी is a पेशेवर अभियान्त्रिकी अनुशासन कि सौदे साथ the डिज़ाइन, निर्माण, और मेंटेनेंस of the शारीरिक and naturally built environment, including works like roads, bridges, canals, dams, and buildings.
Civil engineering is the oldest engineering discipline after सैन्य अभियान्त्रिकी, और it थी पारिभाषित to फर्क non-military अभियान्त्रिकी from military engineering.
It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including environmental engineering, geotechnical engineering, geophysics, geodesy, control engineering, structural engineering, biomechanics, nanotechnology, परिवहन अभियान्त्रिकी, धरती विज्ञान, वायुमंडलीय sciences, forensic अभियान्त्रिकी, नगरपालिका or शहरी अभियान्त्रिकी, जल संसाधन अभियान्त्रिकी, materials engineering, coastal engineering, surveying, and construction engineering.
Civil engineering takes place on all levels : in the public सेक्टर इससे नगरपालिका through to नेशनल सरकारें, और in the निजी सेक्टर इससे व्यक्तिगत homeowners through to international companies.
Katherine dunham in तीव्र revue
Katherine dunham in स्टुडियो
कैथरीन dunham in Tropical Review Tropical Review, Martin Beck Theatre
कैथरीन dunham wearing dance costume
कैथरीन dunham in cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( June 22, 1909 – May 21, 2006 ) was an अमरीकी नर्तकी, कोरियोग्राफर, लेखक, educator, and social activist.
Dunham had एक of the सबसे कामयाब नृत्य करियर in अमरीकी और यूरोपीय थिएटर of the 20th century, and directed her own dance company for many years.
She has been called the `` matriarch और महारानी माँ of ब्लैक dance ''.
During her heyday in the 1940s and 1950s, dunham थी प्रसिद्ध throughout यूरोपीय और लैटिन अमेरिका और थी widely लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त राज्य, जहाँ the Washington Post called her `` dancer Katherine the Great ''.
For almost thirty years she maintained the Katherine Dunham Dance Company, the only self-supported अमरीकी ब्लैक नृत्य troupe at कि समय, और over उसके long करियर वो choreographed अधिक than नब्बे individual dances.
Dunham was an innovator in african-american आधुनिक नृत्य as well as a leader in the field of dance anthropology, or ethnochoreology.
sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 और 3500 species of mosses, commonly called peat moss due to its prevalence in wet habitats where it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires.
Sphagnum accumulations can स्टोर जल, चूंकि दोनो जीना और मुर्दे पौधे can hold large quantities of water inside their cells ; plants may hold from 16-26 times as much water as their dry weight depending on the species.
The खाली कोशिकाएं सहायता retain जल in drier conditions.
Hence, as sphagnum moss grows, it can slowly spread into drier शर्तें, forming larger peatlands, दोनो उठाया bogs और blanket bogs.
These peat accumulations then provide habitat for a wide array of peatland plants, सहित sedges और ericaceous shrubs, as खूब as orchids और मांसाहारी plants.
Sphagnum and the peat formed from it do not decay readily because of the phenolic यौगिकों अंतःस्थापित in the मॉस 's कोशिका walls.
In addition, bogs, like all wetlands, develop अवायवीय मृदा शर्तें, जिससे produces धीमा अवायवीय क्षय rather than aerobic microbial action.
Peat moss can भी acidify इसके परिवेश by लेने up cations, such as calcium and magnesium, and releasing hydrogen ions.
अंतर्गत the सही शर्तें, peat can accumulate to a depth of many meters.
Different species of Sphagnum have different सहिष्णुता हद लिये बाढ़ और ph, so कोई एक peatland may have a क्रमांक of different Sphagnum species.
Individual peat मॉस पौधे consist of a प्रमुख स्टेम, साथ tightly arranged क्लस्टर of शाखा fascicles usually consisting of two or three spreading branches and two to four hanging branches.
the शीर्ष of the संयंत्र, or capitulum, has compact clusters of young branches.
Along the stem are scattered leaves of various shapes, नामित स्टेम पत्ते ; the आकार varies according to species.
the पत्ते consist of दो kinds of कोशिकाएं ; छोटी, ग्रीन, जीना कोशिकाएं ( chlorophyllose cells ), and large, clear, structural, dead cells ( hyaline cells ).
The latter have the विशाल water-holding capacity.
The earliest संस्करण of the संजाल कार्ड, issued manually rather than through an APTIS machine.
The first aptis संस्करण of the Network Card.
This was used from the start of the APTIS era in 1986/1987 until well into the 1990s, as स्टॉक्स था to be प्रयुक्त up despite the परिचय of the new-look orange-banded version in 1991.
the परिचय of the weekday न्यूनतम किराया कंडीशन in 2002 resulted in a minor change : the red `` R '' shows that this is the `` Revised '' version of the railcard.
This version is स्टिल in उपयोग as of 2007.
The Network Railcard is a discount card introduced in 1986 by अंग्रेजों रेल, upon the सृष्टि of उनके संजाल southeast area around London, England.
The card is intended to प्रोत्साहित अवकाश सफर by रेल by offering छूट लिये adults and accompanying children on a wide range of off-peak fares.
The range of discounts available, and the price of the card, have varied चूंकि कि समय, लकिन the कार्ड रै सदा been valid for a year 's unlimited use.
It can be purchased by any person aged 16 or over from any staffed National Rail station or Rail Appointed Travel Agent, by completing an अनुप्रयोग रूप - no फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक पहचान or अन्य दस्तावेज़ीकरण is needed to ख़रीदे or उपयोग the कार्ड.
It is one of a number of concessionary किराया योजनाएं उपलब्धियाँ on the British railway system.
The United Nations ( UN ; French : संगठन देस राष्ट्र unies, onu ) is the संसार 's largest, foremost, और सबसे prominent अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन.
The stated aims of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र शामिल promoting और facilitating सहयोग in अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि, अंतरराष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा, आर्थिक development, social progress, human rights, civil rights, civil liberties, political freedoms, democracy, and the achievement of lasting world peace.
The UN was founded in 1945 after World War II to बदलें the लीग of राष्ट्र, to रोकें युद्धों between देशों, and to provide a platform for dialogue.
It contains अनेक subsidiary संगठन to carry out its missions.
At its founding, the un था 51 सदस्य राज्य ; as of 2011, there are 193.
From its offices around the world, the UN and its specialized agencies decide on सत्य और प्रशासनिक मुद्दे in नियमित बैठक held throughout the year.
The organization has six principal organs : the General Assembly ( the main deliberative assembly ) ; the Security Council ( for deciding certain resolutions for peace and security ) ; the आर्थिक और सोशल परिषद ( लिये assisting in promoting अंतरराष्ट्रीय आर्थिक और सोशल सहयोग और विकास ) ; the सचिवालय ( लिये providing अध्ययन, information, and facilities needed by the UN ) ; the International Court of Justice ( the primary judicial organ ) ; and the United Nations Trusteeship Council ( which is currently inactive ).
Other prominent UN System एजेंसियों शामिल the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन ( जो ), the संसार खाना कार्यक्रम ( WFP ) and United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ).
The UN 's most prominent position is that of the office of Secretary-General which रै महरूम आयोजित by बैन ki-moon of दक्षिण कोरियाई since 2007.
The संयुक्त राष्ट्र मुख्यालय resides in अंतरराष्ट्रीय territory in New York City, with further main offices at Geneva, Nairobi, and Vienna.
The organization is financed इससे assessed और voluntary योगदान इससे इसके सदस्य राज्य, और रै छह आधिकारिक languages : Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, and Spanish.
South Beach, also nicknamed SoBe, is a neighborhood in the city of मियामी बीच, फ्लोरिडा, संयुक्त राज्य, स्तिथ due ईस्ट of मियामी नगर उचित between Biscayne Bay and the Atlantic Ocean.
The area encompasses all of the barrier islands of मियामी बीच दक्षिण of भारतीय Creek.
This area was the first section of Miami Beach to be developed, starting in the 1910s, धन्यवाद to the विकास प्रयत्न of कार्ल G. फिशर, the lummus भाइयो, और जॉन S. कॉलिन्स, the latter जिनकी निर्माण of the कॉलिन्स Bridge provided the first vital land link between mainland Miami and the beaches.
The area has gone through numerous artificial and natural changes over the years, including a booming क्षेत्रीय अर्थव्यवस्था, increased पर्यटन, और the 1926 hurricane, which destroyed much of the area.
as of 2010, परिचय 39,186 residents live in South Beach.
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, आयोजित on मंगलवार, नवम्बर 8, 1960.
The Republican Party nominated लाज़िम vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन, जबकि the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी मनोनीत जॉन F. Kennedy, Senator from Massachusetts.
The incumbent President, Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower, was not eligible for re-election बाद सेवारत the अधिकतम दो शर्तें अनुमत by the twenty-second amendment.
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes, or 0.17 % of the popular vote, giving him a विजय of 303 to 219 in the चुनावी कॉलेज, the closest चूंकि 1916.
This was the पहला चुनाव in जिससे सब पचास of the वर्तमान United States participated.
A number of factors बताइये क्यों the चुनाव थी so close.
Kennedy gained चूंकि वहीँ थी an आर्थिक मंदी जिससे ठेस the लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन, और he had the advantage of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans.
Furthermore, the new votes that Kennedy gained among catholics लगभग neutralized the नई मत निक्सन gained among Protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning कौशल decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
In the end, Nixon 's जोर on उसके अनुभव carried छोटी वज़न, और he wasted उर्जा by campaigning in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states.
Kennedy used his large, well-funded campaign organization to win the nomination, सुरक्षित समर्थन, और, साथ the सहायता of the पिछला of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on running mate Lyndon B. Johnson to hold the South and प्रयुक्त टेलीविज़न effectively.
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S. Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) were elected as president and vice-president, a घटना कि रै महरूम दोहराया एकबार, by बराक ओबामा और जो बिडेन in 2008 ( in दोनो मामले, the अध्यक्ष थी the younger, more junior senator ).
A poster for a c. 1884 अमरीकी उत्पादन of मैकबेथ, अभिनीत थामस W. Keene.
चित्रित, काउंटर clockwise इससे top-left, हैं : मैकबेथ और banquo meet the witches ; just after the murder of Duncan ; Banquo 's ghost ; Macbeth duels Macduff ; and Macbeth.
Macbeth is a खेल लिखा by विलियम शेक्सपियर.
It is माना एक of उसके darkest and most powerful tragedies.
Set in Scotland, the play dramatizes the corroding psychological and political effects produced जब इसके समर्थक, the स्कॉटिश रब मैकबेथ, chooses दुष्ट as the रास्ता to fulfill उसके ambition for power.
He commits regicide to become king and तब furthers उसके moral descent साथ a शासनकाल of murderous आतंक to रहो in शक्ति, eventually plunging the country into civil war.
In the end, he loses everything that gives meaning and purpose to उसके जीवन पहले खोने उसके जीवन itself.
The play is believed to have महरूम लिखा between 1603 and 1607, and is most commonly dated 1606.
The earliest खाता of a प्रदर्शन of कया थी संभवतः शेक्सपियर 's play is April 1611, when Simon Forman recorded seeing such a play at the Globe Theatre.
It was first प्रकाशित in the folio of 1623, संभवतः from a prompt book.
It was most likely written दौरान the शासनकाल of जेम्स i, जो था महरूम जेम्स vi of स्कॉटलैंड पहले he succeeded to the English throne in 1603.
James was a patron of Shakespeare’s acting company, and of सब the plays शेक्सपियर लिखा दौरान james’s शासनकाल, मैकबेथ सबसे clearly reflects the playwright’s संबंध साथ the sovereign.
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy, and tells the story of a brave Scottish general named Macbeth who receives a prophecy इससे a तिकड़ी of witches कि एक दिन he होगा become किंग of स्कॉटलैंड.
Consumed by ambition and spurred to action by his बीवी, मैकबेथ हत्याएं किंग डंकन और takes the सिंहासन for himself.
His reign is racked with guilt and paranoia, and he soon becomes a tyrannical ruler as he is मजबूर to कमिट अधिक और अधिक हत्याएं to protect खुद इससे enmity and suspicion.
The bloodbath swiftly takes मैकबेथ और महिला मैकबेथ into realms of arrogance, madness, and death.
Shakespeare 's source for the tragedy is the account of King Macbeth of Scotland, Macduff, and Duncan in Holinshed 's Chronicles ( 1587 ), a history of England, स्कॉटलैंड और आयरलैंड परिचित to शेक्सपियर और उसके contemporaries, हालांकि the कार्यक्रम in the खेल differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth.
In the backstage संसार of थिएटर, कुछ मानना कि the खेल is शापित, और होगा नहीं mention its title aloud, referring to it instead as `` the Scottish play ``.
Over the course of many सदियां, the खेल रै आकर्षित कुछ of the most renowned actors to the roles of Macbeth and Lady Macbeth.
It has been adapted to film, television, opera, novels, कॉमिक किताबे, और अन्य मीडिया.
The मिल्टन hershey स्कूल is a निजी परोपकारी ( pre-k through 12 ) boarding school in Hershey, Pennsylvania.
Originally named the Hershey Industrial School, the institution was founded and वित्तपोषित by चॉकलेट उद्योगपति मिल्टन snavely hershey और his wife, Catherine Sweeney Hershey.
The school was originally स्थापित लिये impoverished, स्वस्थ, Caucasian, male orphans, while today it serves students of various backgrounds.
The Milton Hershey School Trust, which funds the school, owns controlling interest in The Hershey कम्पनी और owns the hershey entertainment और रिसॉर्ट कम्पनी ( herco ) जिससे oversees अनेक of the area hotels along with a theme park called Hersheypark.
With over six अरब डॉलर in एसेट, the मिल्टन hershey स्कूल is one of the wealthiest schools in the world.
The school is overseen by a फलक of Managers.
The स्कूल फिलहाल serves 1,818 विद्यार्थी, and plans to grow to 2,100 students by 2013.
A member of CORE : Coalition for Residential Education, it is the largest आवासीय शिक्षा कार्यक्रम in the us.
epub may refer to:
epub, a फ़्री और खोलें e-book standard
Electronic आलेख, आलेख in scholarly जर्नल्स or मैगज़ीन कि can be accessed via electronic transmission
The Controlled Substances Act ( सीएसए ) थी enacted into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the संघीय u.S. ड्रग नीति अंतर्गत जिससे the manufacture, importation, possession, use and distribution of certain substances is regulated.
The Act भी परोसा as the नेशनल implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
The विधान निर्मित पाँच schedules ( classifications ), साथ varying qualifications for a substance to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by Congress created the initial लिस्टिंग, और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i. वर्गीकरण निर्णय हैं जरूरी to be बना on मापदण्ड सहित संभावित लिये गाली ( an अपरिभाषित term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
Second-language acquisition or second-language सीखना is the प्रक्रम by जिससे लोगों learn a second language.
Second-language acquisition ( often abbreviated to sla ) भी refers to the वैज्ञानिक अनुशासन devoted to studying that process.
Second language refers to any language learned in जोड to a व्यक्ति 's पहला भाषा ; हालांकि the अवधारणा is नामित second-language अधिग्रहण, it can also incorporate the learning of third, fourth, or subsequent languages.
second-language अधिग्रहण refers to what learners do ; it does not refer to practices in language teaching.
The अकादमिक अनुशासन of second-language अधिग्रहण is a subdiscipline of applied linguistics.
It is broad-based and अपेक्षाकृत नई.
As well as the various शाखाओं of भाषाविज्ञान, second-language अधिग्रहण is भी closely सम्बन्धित to psychology, cognitive psychology, and education.
To separate the academic discipline from the learning process itself, the terms second-language acquisition research, second-language अध्ययन, और second-language अधिग्रहण studies are also used.
sla शोध began as an interdisciplinary फ़ील्ड, और क्युकी of this it is difficult to identify a precise starting date.
However, it does appear to have developed a ग्रेट सौदे चूंकि the mid-1960s.
The term acquisition was originally used to emphasize the अवचेतन प्रकृति of the सीखना प्रक्रम, लकिन in हाल सालो सीखना और अधिग्रहण have become largely synonymous.
Second-language अधिग्रहण can चरितार्थ विरासत भाषा सीखना, लकिन it करता not usually incorporate bilingualism.
Most SLA शोधकर्ताओं देखिए bilingualism as होने the समाप्त परिणाम of सीखना a भाषा, नहीं the प्रक्रम itself, and see the term as referring to native-like fluency.
लेखक in फ़ील्ड ऐसे as शिक्षा और मनोविज्ञान, however, प्रायः उपयोग bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of multilingualism.
Second-language acquisition is also not to be contrasted with the acquisition of a foreign language ; बल्कि, the सीखना of दूसरी भाषाएं और the सीखना of विदेशी भाषाएं involve the वही आधारभूत processes in different situations..
There has been much debate about exactly how भाषा is सीखे, और अनेक मुद्दे हैं स्टिल unresolved.
There are many theories of second-language acquisition, but none हैं स्वीकृत as a पूरा स्पष्टीकरण by सब sla शोधकर्ताओं.
Due to the interdisciplinary प्रकृति of the फ़ील्ड of second-language अधिग्रहण, इस is नहीं expected to happen in the foreseeable future.
Forbes list of अरबपतियों is an सालाना रैंकिंग of the संसार 's wealthiest people, compiled and published by Forbes, an American national business magazine.
The total net worth of each individual on the सूची is अनुमानित, in संयुक्त राज्य डॉलर, आधारित on उनके एसेट और accounting for debt.
The list only represents each person 's valuation on a सिंगल दिन, due to रोज़ fluctuations among exchange rates and stock valuations.
The संयुक्त राज्य रहस्य सेवा is a u.S. संघीय विधि प्रवर्तन एजेंसी कि is भाग of the United States Department of Homeland Security.
The sworn members are विभाजित among the खास एजेंटों और the Uniformed Division.
Until March 1, 2003, the Service was part of the United States विभाग of the राजकोष.
The U.S. Secret सेवा रै दो पृथक areas of responsibility:
Financial Crimes, covering missions such as prevention and investigation of counterfeiting of U.S. currency and U.S. treasury प्रतिभूति, और छानबीन of major fraud.
Protection, which entails ensuring the सुरक्षा of वर्तमान और पूर्व नेशनल नेताओ और उनके परिवारों, ऐसे as the अध्यक्ष, पास्ट राष्ट्रपतियों, वाइस राष्ट्रपतियों, अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार, visiting heads of राज्य, और foreign embassies ( per an agreement with the U.S. State Department 's Bureau of Diplomatic Security ( DS ) Office of Foreign Missions ( OFM ), etc. )
The Secret Service 's initial responsibility was to investigate counterfeiting of u.S. करेंसी, जिससे थी अनियंत्रित following the u.S. सिविल War.
The agency then evolved into the संयुक्त राज्य ' पहला घरेलू प्रज्ञा and counterintelligence agency.
Many of the agency 's missions were later लिया over by subsequent एजेंसियों ऐसे as the संघीय ब्यूरो of छानबीन ( एफबीआई ), ब्यूरो of दारू, तम्बाकू, firearms और विस्फोटक ( ATF ), Immigration and Customs Enforcement ( ICE ), and Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ).
`` Me and Bobby McGee '' is a सोंग लिखा by क्रिस kristofferson और फ्रेड फोस्टर, originally performed by Roger Miller.
Others performed the song later, including Kristofferson himself, and Janis Joplin who topped the U.S. singles chart with the सोंग in 1971 बाद उसके मौत, बनाना the सोंग the दूसरी posthumous number-one सिंगल in u.S. चार्ट इतिहास after `` ( Sittin ' On ) The Dock of the Bay `` by Otis Redding.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30, 1882 – April 12, 1945 ), also known by his initials, FDR, was the 32nd President of the United States ( 1933–1945 ) and a सेंट्रल फिगर in संसार कार्यक्रम दौरान the mid-20th सदी, अग्रणी the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war.
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms, he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned अमरीकी राजनीती बाद 1932, as उसके घरेलू नीतियों पारिभाषित अमरीकी उदारतावाद लिये the मध्य third of the 20th century.
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are यहाँ again `` as उसके अभियान थीम, fdr पराजित लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन Herbert Hoover in November 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression.
Energized by his personal victory over polio, FDR 's unfailing आशावाद और सक्रियता contributed to a नवीकरण of the नेशनल spirit.
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the Allies against जर्मनी और जापानी in संसार युद्ध ii, और restoring समृद्धि to the nation 's economy.
In his first hundred days in office, which began March 4, 1933, Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to उपज राहत ( सरकारी कार्य लिये the बेरोजगार ), रिकवरी ( आर्थिक विकास ), और सुधार ( through regulation of Wall Street, banks and transportation ).
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, लकिन तब relapsed into a गहन मंदी.
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any considerable विधान ; it abolished अनेक of the राहत कार्यक्रम जब बेरोजगारी diminished दौरान संसार युद्ध ii.
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85, except for the regulation of Wall गली by the प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग, जिससे स्टिल exists.
Along with several smaller programs, major surviving programs include the संघीय जमा बीमे निगम, जिससे थी निर्मित in 1933, और सोशल सुरक्षा, जिससे कॉंग्रेस passed in 1935.
As World War II loomed after 1938, with the Japanese आक्रमण of चीन और the आक्रामकता of नाजी जर्मनी, fdr दिया दमदार राजनयिक and financial support to China and Great Britain, while remaining officially neutral.
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of लोकतंत्र `` जिससे होता सप्लाई munitions to the Allies.
In March 1941, Roosevelt, with Congressional approval, provided Lend-Lease सहायता to the देशों लड़ विरूद्ध नाजी जर्मनी साथ ब्रिटेन.
With very strong national support, he made war on जापानी और जर्मनी बाद the जापानी आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर on दिसम्बर 7, 1941, कॉलिंग it a `` date which will live in infamy ``.
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the अलाइड युद्ध प्रयत्न.
As an active military leader, Roosevelt implemented an overall war रणनीति on दो fronts कि ended in the शिकस्त of the अक्ष शक्तियां और the विकास of the world 's first atom bomb.
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 जापानी American civilians.
Unemployment dropped to 2 %, relief programs largely ended, and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new हाइट्स as लाखो of लोगों स्थानांतरित to नई कार्य in युद्ध centers, और 16 लाख मेन और 300,000 महिलाओं यहूद drafted or volunteered for military service.
Roosevelt dominated the American political झाँकी नहीं तभी दौरान the बारह सालो of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी, लकिन भी लिये decades afterward.
He orchestrated the realignment of मतदाता कि निर्मित the Fifth Party System.
FDR 's New सौदे गठबन्धन संयुक्त मजदूर संघ, बिग नगर मशीने, white ethnics, African Americans and rural white Southerners.
He also influenced the later creation of the United राष्ट्र और bretton वुड्स.
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the शीर्ष तीन u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों, साथ साथ अब्राहम lincoln और जार्ज वॉशिंगटन.
A liberal Democrat, रूज़वेल्ट पारिभाषित उसके वैचारिक स्थिति as `` a little left of center. ''
Mara Salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as ms, मारा, और ms-13 ) is a transnational दण्ड गिरोह that originated in Los Angeles and has spread to other parts of the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Central America.
The बहुमत of the गिरोह is ethnically रचित of Central Americans and active in urban and suburban areas.
In the U.S., the MS-13 has an especially heavy presence in Los Angeles County and the सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल in उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया ; the वॉशिंगटन, d.C. महानगर क्षेत्रों of फेयरफैक्स काउंटी, वर्जिनिया, मोंटगोमरी काउंटी, मेरीलैंड, और प्रिंस जार्ज 's County, Maryland ; Long Island, New York ; the Boston, Massachusetts area ; Charlotte, North Carolina ; and Houston, Texas.
There is also a presence of ms-13 in टोरंटो, ओंटारियो, Canada.
Members of MS distinguish themselves by tattoos covering the body and also often the face, as well as the use of उनके अपना चिह्न भाषा.
They are बदनाम लिये उनके उपयोग of हिंसा और a subcultural moral code that predominantly consists of merciless revenge and cruel retributions.
This cruelty of the distinguished सदस्यों of the `` maras '' or `` mareros '' अर्जित them a path to be recruited by the Sinaloa Cartel battling against Los Zetas in an ongoing drug war south of the United States border.
Their wide-ranging activities have drawn the attention of the FBI and Immigration and Customs Enforcement, who have initiated wide-scale छापे विरूद्ध ज्ञात और suspected गिरोह सदस्यों – netting सैंकड़ों of रखवाले आरपार the country.
Bones is an American अपराधों comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on the फॉक्स संजाल in the United States on September 13, 2005.
The show is based on forensic anthropology and forensic archaeology, with प्रत्येक एपीसोड focusing on an एफबीआई मामला संचिका concerning the रहस्य पीछे इंसान remains brought by एफबीआई खास एजेंट seeley Booth ( David Boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist Dr. Temperance `` Bones '' Brennan ( Emily Deschanel ).
The rest of the main cast includes Michaela Conlin, T. J. Thyne, Eric Millegan, Tamara टेलर, जोनाथन एडम्स, और जॉन फ्रांसिस Daley.
Created by Hart Hanson, the series is very loosely based on the life and writings of उपन्यासकार और forensic anthropologist कैथी reichs, जो भी produces the show.
Its title character, temperance ब्रेनन, is नामित बाद the समर्थक of Reichs ' crime novel series.
Conversely, Dr. Brennan writes कामयाब रहस्य novels आधारित around a fictional ( in the Bones universe ) forensic anthropologist named Kathy Reichs.
हड्डियों is a संयुक्त उत्पादन by जोसेफसन Entertainment, Far Field Productions and 20th Century Fox Television.
The series has समाप्त airing इसके आठवीं ऋतु and has been renewed for a ninth season.
Super Bowl XXV was an American football game between the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Buffalo Bills and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) चैंपियन नई यॉर्क दिग्गज to decide the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) चैंपियन for the 1990 season.
The Giants defeated the Bills by the स्कोर of 20–19, जीतना उनके दूसरी ever Super Bowl.
It is the only Super कटोरी decided by एक point.
The खेल थी आयोजित at tampa स्टेडियम in Tampa, Florida, on January 27, 1991, during the height of the Gulf War.
It was thus निभाई अंतर्गत much patriotic fervor.
The proceedings included a rousing rendition of `` the star-spangled ध्वज `` by व्हिटनी ह्यूस्टन दौरान the pregame ceremonies.
The Bills and their explosive no-huddle ठोकर यहूद बनाना उनके पहला सुपर कटोरी रूप बाद finishing the नियमित ऋतु with a 13-3 record, and leading the league in total points scored with 428.
In advancing to their second Super Bowl, the Giants also posted a 13-3 नियमित ऋतु रिकार्ड, लकिन साथ a ball-control ठोकर और a रक्षा कि allowed a league low 211 points.
The game is best remembered लिये बिल्स placekicker स्कॉट नॉर्वुड 's last-second फ़ील्ड लक्ष्य attempt जिससे गई चौड़ी सही of the uprights, leading to a Giants victory, and starting a four-game losing streak in the Super Bowl for the Bills.
The Giants set a सुपर कटोरी रिकार्ड पकड़कर कब्ज़ा of the बॉल लिये 40 मिनट्स and 33 seconds.
New York also overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit, और बना a 75-yard touchdown ड्राइव कि खपत a सुपर Bowl record 9:29 off the clock.
Giants running back ottis एंडरसन, जो carried the बॉल 21 times for 102 yards and one touchdown, was named Super Bowl MVP.
He थी the पहला awardee to प्राप्त the newly नामित `` पीट Rozelle Trophy '' ( named for the former commissioner ).
एंडरसन भी अंकित एक रिसेप्शन for seven yards.
Malcolm X ( ; May 19, 1925February 21, 1965 ), born Malcolm Little and also ज्ञात as el-hajj malik el-shabazz ( ), was an African-American Muslim minister and human rights activist.
To his admirers, he थी a साहसी एडवोकेट लिये the अधिकारों of अश्वेतों, a man जो indicted श्वेत America in the harshest terms for its crimes against black Americans.
Detractors accused him of preaching जातिवाद, ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता, और violence.
He रै महरूम पुकारा एक of the महानतम and most influential African Americans in history.
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by श्वेत supremacists, it थी rumored—when he was young, and at least one of his uncles was lynched.
When he was 13, उसके माँ थी लगाई in a दिमागी हॉस्पिटल, and he was placed in a series of foster homes.
In 1946, at आयु 20, he गई to थाना लिये तोड़कर and entering.
In थाना, मैल्कम x became a सदस्य of the Nation of Islam ; after his parole in 1952, he quickly rose to become one of its leaders.
For a dozen years, मैल्कम x थी the पब्लिक फेस of the विवादास्पद समूह, लकिन मोहभंग with Nation of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964.
After a काल of सफर in अफ़्रीकी और the मध्य ईस्ट, he लौटे to the संयुक्त राज्य, जहाँ he संस्थापित Muslim Mosque, Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity.
In February 1965, less than a year after leaving the स्वदेश of islam, he थी assassinated by तीन सदस्यों of the समूह.
Malcolm X 's expressed मान्यताओं बदला substantially over time.
As a प्रवक्ता लिये the स्वदेश of islam he सिखाया ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता और advocated separation of black and white Americans —in contrast to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration.
After तोड़कर साथ the स्वदेश of islam in 1964—saying of उसके संघ with it, `` I did many things as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now.
I was a zombie then... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and बनने a सुन्नी मुस्लिम, he disavowed जातिवाद और expressed willingness to कार्य साथ सिविल अधिकारों नेताओ, he जारी to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, and self-defense.
The third season of 90210, an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, premiered on Monday September 13, 2010.
The CW officially renewed the show for a तीसरा ऋतु on फ़रवरी 16, 2010.
With the reveal of the networks fall 2010 schedule, वे घोषित उनके निर्णय to मूव 90210 to सोमवार नाइट्स at 8:00 pm, as a lead-in to Gossip Girl.
It premiered on सितंबर 13, 2010 और थी मिले साथ generally positive reviews from critics.
The ऋतु चयन up at the समाप्त of गर्मियाँ और focuses on the students senior year of high school.
It follows Adrianna 's वृद्धि to कीर्ति, a नई संबंध between चांदी and Navid and a confused Teddy who decides to reveal to his family and friends he is gay.
It भी सौदे साथ the aftermath of Naomi Clark 's assault.
Regular cast members for the season included Shenae Grimes, Tristan Wilds, annalynne mccord, रयान eggold, जेसिका stroup, माइकल steger, जेसिका lowndes, मैट lanter, गिलियन zinser, ट्रेवर डोनोवन and Lori Loughlin.
Rebecca Sinclair जारी उसके भूमिका as कार्यपालिका निर्माता लिये the season.
The season premiered to 1.96 million viewers and a 0.9 दरजा in the वयस्कों 18–49 जनसांख्यिकी.
Christmas-themed episode `` अवकाश दीवानगी '', hit ऋतु highs in सब कुंजी demos साथ 2.1 in The CW 's target demo of women 18–34, a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in adults 18–49.
It was also the सबसे देखी एपीसोड in over a साल साथ 2.2 million viewers tuning in.
The season finale aired on may 16, 2011.
The season averaged 1.75 लाख सजीव दर्शक और a 0.9 वयस्कों 18–49 rating.
It was released on DVD in the संयुक्त राज्य on अगस्त 30, 2011.
एलिज़ाबेथ ii ( एलिज़ाबेथ एलेक्जेंड्रा मरियम ; born 21 अप्रैल 1926 ) is the संवैधानिक monarch of 16 sovereign राज्य, known as the Commonwealth realms, and their territories and dependencies, and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations.
She is Supreme Governor of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड और, in कुछ of उसके realms, carries the शीर्षक of Defender of the Faith as part of her full title.
On her accession on 6 February 1952, Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven स्वतंत्र राष्ट्रमंडल देशों : the संयुक्त किंगडम, कनाडा, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, नई जीलैंड, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी, पाकिस्तानी और Ceylon.
From 1956 to 1992, the क्रमांक of उसके realms varied as territories gained independence and some realms became republics.
At present, in addition to the first four aforementioned देशों, एलिज़ाबेथ is महारानी of जमैका, बारबाडोस, the बहामा, हरा, पापुआ नई गिनी, the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स, तुवालू, संत लूसिया, संत विंसेंट और the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Her reign of years is currently the second longest लिये a अंग्रेजों monarch ; तभी महारानी विक्टोरिया has reigned longer at over 63 years.
Elizabeth थी born in लंदन और शिक्षित privately at home.
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of उसके bhai एडवर्ड viii, इससे जिससे समय वो थी the heir presumptive.
She began to undertake पब्लिक कर्तव्य दौरान the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, in which she served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service.
In 1947, she married Prince Philip, Duke of एडिनबर्ग, साथ जिसको वो रै चार children : Charles, Anne, Andrew, and Edward.
Her राजतिलक सेवा took प्लेस in 1953 and was the first to be televised.
The Queen 's many historic visits and meetings include a state visit to the Republic of आयरलैंड और reciprocal विज़िट to और इससे the Pope.
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms, ऐसे as devolution in the संयुक्त किंगडम और the patriation of the Canadian constitution.
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children, the births of her grandchildren, the investiture of the Prince of वेल्स, और the जश्न of माइलस्टोन ऐसे as उसके चांदी, सुनहरी, और डायमंड jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, respectively.
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in उत्तरी आयरलैंड, the falklands युद्ध, युद्धों साथ Iraq and the War in Afghanistan.
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56, the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle, Lord Mountbatten, the breakdown of उसके children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a साल deemed उसके annus horribilis ), the मौत in 1997 of उसके पूर्व daughter-in-law, डायना, राजकुमारी of वेल्स, और the मौतों of उसके माँ और sister in 2002.
The Queen has occasionally faced कठोर दबायें आलोचना of the royal परिवार और रिपब्लिकन sentiments, but support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high.
The 2010 United States Senate election in फ्लोरिडा took प्लेस on नवम्बर 2, 2010 साथ साथ अन्य चुनावों to the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट in अन्य राज्य as खूब as सब चुनावों to the United States House of Representatives and various state and local elections.
Republican Marco rubio, पूर्व स्पीकर of the फ्लोरिडा हाउस of प्रतिनिधि, पराजित स्वतंत्र चार्ली crist and Democrat Kendrick Meek in a three-way race.
One term Senator Mel मार्टिनेज थी निर्वाचित in a बहुत बंद रेस against Democrat Betty Castor in 2004 with 49 % of the vote.
Martinez announced on December 2, 2008 that he would not seek re-election to the सीनेट, और होता इस्तीफा prior to the end of his term.
In August 2009, राज्यपाल चार्ली crist घोषित कि he होता नियुक्त उसके former Chief of Staff, George LeMieux, a Republican, to the Senate seat being vacated by Martinez.
Governor crist सरेआम घोषित he थी running for the seat in mid-2009.
At the time he received many रिपब्लिकन समर्थन, ऐसे as the नेशनल रिपब्लिकन senatorial कमेटी, Martinez, and the 2008 Republican presidential nominee John McCain.
His support of the American Recovery and Reinvestment अधिनियम of 2009 ठेस उसके लोकप्रियता among conservatives, और प्रत्याशी मार्को rubio surged.
In अप्रैल 2010 crist घोषित he होता बूँद आउट of the रिपब्लिकन primary and run as an independent.
The National Republican Senatorial कमेटी withdrew इसके समर्थन of crist और मांगे a refund of its campaign funds that it provided for the Crist campaign.
कांग्रेसी kendrick नम्र थी the पहला डेमोक्रेट to declare his intention to run.
Alexander Snitker was the first member of the libertarian पार्टी on the बैलट लिये senator in Florida 's history.
उपग्रह view of Doha
Doha (, ' or ', literally : `` the big tree '' ) is the पूंजी नगर of the राज्य of Qatar.
Located on the coast of the पारसी Gulf,
it had a जनसांख्यिकी of 998,651 in 2008, और is भी one of the municipalities of Qatar.
Doha is क़तर 's largest नगर, साथ over 60 % of the स्वदेश 's जनसांख्यिकी residing in दोहा or इसके surrounding suburbs, and is also the economic centre of the country.
Doha also serves as the seat of government of Qatar, which is शासित by शेख़ हमद बिन खलीफा al Thani.
Doha is घर to the शिक्षा नगर, an area devoted to research and education.
Doha was the site of the first ministerial-level बैठक of the दोहा विकास गोलाकार of संसार व्यापार संगठन negotiations.
The city of Doha held the 2006 Asian Games, जिससे थी the largest एशियाई खेल ever held.
Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan Arab Games और सबसे of the खेल at the 2011 AFC Asian Cup.
Doha hosted the UNFCCC Climate negotiations ( cop 18 ) दिसम्बर 2012 और होगा host a large number of the venues for the 2022 FIFA World Cup.
The संसार पेट्रोलियम परिषद आयोजित the 20th संसार पेट्रोलियम Conference in Doha in December 2011.
Paranasal sinuses are a group of four paired air-filled spaces that surround the nasal गुहा ( ऊर्ध्वहनु साइनस ), ऊपर the आँखें ( frontal साइनस ), between the आँखें ( ethmoid साइनस ), और पीछे the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ).
The sinuses are named for the फेशियल हड्डियों in जिससे वे हैं located.
Lean manufacturing, lean enterprise, or lean production, often simply, `` Lean, '' is a उत्पादन अभ्यास कि considers the व्यय of संसाधन लिये कोई लक्ष्य अन्य than the सृष्टि of मान लिये the समाप्त ग्राहक to be wasteful, and thus a target for elimination.
Working from the perspective of the customer who consumes a उत्पाद or सेवा, `` मान '' is पारिभाषित as कोई कार्रवाई or प्रक्रम कि a ग्राहक होता be willing to pay for.
Essentially, lean is केन्द्रित on preserving मान साथ कम कार्य.
Lean निर्माण is a प्रबन्धन दर्शनशास्त्र निकला ज़्यादातर इससे the टोयोटा Production System ( TPS ) ( hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent ) and identified as `` Lean '' only in the 1990s.
TPS is renowned for its focus on reduction of the original Toyota seven wastes to improve overall ग्राहक मान, लकिन वहीँ हैं varying perspectives on कैसा this is best achieved.
The steady growth of टोयोटा, इससे a छोटी कम्पनी to the संसार 's largest automaker, रै केन्द्रित attention on how it has achieved this success.
icarly लोगो
iCarly is an अमरीकी sitcom कि airs on निकलोडियन, which premiered on September 8, 2007.
Nickelodeon promoted many episodes so far such as `` iDo '', `` iHire an Idiot '', `` ipity the nevel '', `` idate sam & फ्रेडी '', इत्यादि. as specials, despite their being regular episodes.
Every episode शीर्षक begins साथ a निम्नतर मामला i जिससे represents the internet, as in `` iCarly ''.
The show was मनोनीत लिये an एमी पुरस्कार for Outstanding Children 's Program in 2009.
The series starring Miranda Cosgrove as Carly Shay, a 13-year-old जो becomes an अंतरजाल स्टार.
The series ended on November 23, 2012 साथ the one-hour खास एपीसोड `` iGoodbye ''.
A total of 7 seasons और 109 एपीसोड यहूद ब्रॉडकास्ट.
The largest audience of the श्रेणी थी 11.2 लाख दर्शक, साथ the खास episode `` iSaved Your Life '' premiered in January 2010.
When Carly ( Miranda Cosgrove ) and her sassy best friend Sam ( Jennette McCurdy ) act funny at a school talent show ऑडिशन, tech-savvy फ्रेडी ( नाथन kress ) टेपों it और पोस्ट it ऑनलाइन without telling them.
After seeing the girls ' strong रसायन और banter, the ऑनलाइन दर्शक clamors लिये अधिक और the iCarly webcast is born.
जबकि grappling साथ ठेठ मुद्दे of किशोरावस्था, कार्ली, sam, और फ्रेडी ढूँढें आउट कि वे have भी become ऑनलाइन हस्तियाँ as their show – which features talent contests, recipes, problem-solving, and random dancing – garners international accolades.
Carly lives in Seattle, Washington with her 26-year-old brother and संरक्षक स्पेंसर ( जेरी trainor ) और produces the दिखाएँ in a makeshift third-floor studio loft in their apartment.
Their mother has never been seen or mentioned, but their father, Steven Shay ( David Chisum ), is a u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स अधिकारी temporarily stationed on a पनडुब्बी, और is प्रायः उल्लेखित लकिन is तभी देखी in व्यक्ति दौरान the श्रेणी finale episode, `` iGoodbye ''.
westlife यहूद an आयरिश लड़के बैंड which formed in 1998 and disbanded in 2012.
originally हस्ताक्षरित by साइमन cowell और managed by Louis Walsh, the group 's final line-up consisted of Nicky Byrne, Kian Egan, Mark Feehily and Shane Filan.
Brian McFadden was a सदस्य इससे 1998 जबतक उसके प्रस्थान in 2004.
Westlife sold over 50 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी, a कुल that included studio albums, singles, video releases, and compilation albums.
The group accumulated 14 number-one singles in the United Kingdom ( the third-highest in uk इतिहास ), tying साथ चट्टान रिचर्ड और रैंकिंग just behind The Beatles and Elvis Presley.
They हासिल a कुल of 26 शीर्ष टेन singles over उनके 14-year career.
By 2010, westlife थी सूचीबद्ध in the गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड, as the UK 's top-selling album group of the 21st century.
They also won The Record of the Year ( the only music award based on public votes in the UK ) a record-breaking चार टाइम्स और in 2012, the आधिकारिक चार्ट कम्पनी सूचीबद्ध westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles कलाकारों in British music history.
Despite their European and एशियाई कामयाबी, westlife never प्रबंधित to break into the U.S. market, achieving only one hit single in 2000 : `` Swear It Again ``.
In अक्तूबर 2011, westlife घोषित उनके इरादे to विभाजित in 2012, following उनके महानतम Hits Tour and the release of their Greatest Hits album.
The boyband 's final कॉन्सर्ट यहूद आयोजित on 22 और 23 जून 2012 at croke पार्क Stadium in Dublin.
The first farewell concert, offering 85,000 tickets, sold out in a record-breaking 5 मिनट्स और the latter screened सजीव in cinemas विश्वव्यापी.
Vitamin A is a group of nutritionally unsaturated hydrocarbons, जिससे शामिल रेटिनॉल, retinal, retinoic एसिड और अनेक provitamin a carotenoids among which beta-carotene is the most important.
Vitamin A has multiple functions, it is important लिये विकास और विकास, लिये the मेंटेनेंस of the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली और good vision.
Vitamin A is needed by the retina of the eye in the रूप of retinal, जिससे combines साथ protein opsin to form rhodopsin the light-absorbing molecule, that is necessary for both low-light ( scotopic vision ) and color vision.
Vitamin A also functions in a very different role as an irreversibly oxidized form of retinol known as retinoic एसिड, जिससे is an महत्वपूर्ण hormone-like विकास फ़ैक्टर लिये epithelial and other cells.
in भोजन of एनिमल उत्पत्ति, the प्रमुख रूप of विटामिन a is an ester, primarily retinyl palmitate, which is converted to retinol ( chemically an alcohol ) in the small intestine.
The रेटिनॉल रूप कृत्यों as a भंडार रूप of the विटामिन, and can be converted to and from its visually active aldehyde form, retinal.
The associated acid ( retinoic acid ), a metabolite कि can be irreversibly synthesized इससे विटामिन a, रै तभी आंशिक विटामिन A activity, and does not function in the retina for the visual cycle.
Retinoic acid is used for विकास और सेल्यूलर differentiation.
All forms of vitamin A have a beta-ionone रिंग to जिससे an isoprenoid कड़ी is संलग्न, called a retinyl group.
Both संरचनात्मक सुविधाएँ हैं अनिवार्य for vitamin activity.
The orange रंजक of गाजर – beta-carotene – can be represented as दो connected retinyl groups, which are used in the body to contribute to vitamin A levels.
Alpha-carotene and gamma-carotene also have a सिंगल retinyl समूह, जिससे दे उन्हें कुछ vitamin activity.
None of the other carotenes have विटामिन कार्यकलाप.
The carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone समूह और रै vitamin activity in humans.
Vitamin A can be found in two प्रिंसिपल फ़ॉर्म in भोजन :
Retinol, the रूप of विटामिन a अवशोषित जब खाने animal food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble substance.
Since the pure alcohol form is unstable, the विटामिन is मिला in ऊतकों in a form of retinyl ester.
It is also commercially produced and administered as esters ऐसे as retinyl acetate or palmitate.
The carotenes alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene ; और the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( सब of जिससे contain beta-ionone बजती ), लकिन no अन्य carotenoids, फलन as provitamin a in herbivores and omnivore animals, which possess the enzyme ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) which cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa and converts it retinol.
In general, carnivores are poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids, and pure carnivores ऐसे as बिल्लियों और ferrets कमी 15-15'-dioxygenase और can नहीं बदलें कोई carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids होने फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन A for these species ).
Selena Marie Gomez ( born जुलाई 22, 1992 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर and actress.
She बना उसके डेब्यू as a चाइल्ड actress in Barney & Friends.
In 2007, Gomez came to prominence as a अभिनीत डाल सदस्य in the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी wizards of Waverly Place.
She हस्ताक्षरित to हॉलीवुड रिकॉर्ड the following साल, और became the संस्थापक and lead singer of the pop band Selena Gomez & the Scene.
Their studio albums Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ), A Year Without Rain ( 2010 ), and When the Sun Goes Down ( 2011 ) were certified Gold by the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका ( riaa ) और have शाखित platinum-certified singles `` naturally ``, `` Who Says ``, and `` Love You like a Love Song ``.
After the release of television films और उनके accompanying soundtracks, गोमेज़ बना उसके नाट्य फिल्मी debut in Ramona and Beezus in 2010 and starred in Monte Carlo in 2011.
Upon the निष्कर्ष of wizards of waverly प्लेस और the अंतराल of सेलिना गोमेज़ & the झाँकी in 2012, वो केन्द्रित on उसके film career, serving as a voice actress in Hotel Transylvania and starring in Spring Breakers the following year.
Her डेब्यू सोलो एल्बम is tentatively अनुसूचित to be released in summer 2013, and is preceded by its lead single `` Come & Get It ``.
Outside of her work in the entertainment industry, Gomez is involved in philanthropic क्रियाएँ through दान कार्य और विभिन्न सोशल और पर्यावरणीय कल्याणकारी.
Tracie Monique Spencer ( born July 12, 1976 ) is an अमरीकी r & b और पॉप singer-songwriter, actress, and model.
Sacramento is the capital नगर of the u.S. राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the सीट of सरकारी of Sacramento County.
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the American नदी in the उत्तरी portion of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's expansive सेंट्रल Valley.
With an अनुमानित 2011 जनसांख्यिकी of 477,891, it is the sixth-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया and the 35th largest city in the United States.
Sacramento is the core cultural and आर्थिक बीच of the sacramento महानगर क्षेत्रफल जिससे शामिल सात काउंटी साथ an अनुमानित 2009 population of 2,527,123.
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California बाद the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल, सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल, और the सैन डिएगो महानगर क्षेत्रफल, as well as the 25th largest in the United States.
Sacramento थी cited by समय पत्रिका as अमेरिका 's सबसे ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002.
Sacramento became a city through the प्रयत्न of the स्विस अप्रवासी जॉन sutter, sr., उसके बेटे जॉन sutter, jr., और जेम्स W. Marshall.
Sacramento grew जल्दी धन्यवाद to the सुरक्षा of sutter 's Fort, which was established by Sutter in 1839.
During the California सुनहरा फटाफट, sacramento थी a प्रमुख वितरण पाइंट, a वाणिज्यिक और agricultural बीच, और a टर्मिनस लिये वैगन रेल, stagecoaches, riverboats, the telegraph, the Pony Express, and the First Transcontinental Railroad.
California State विश्वविद्यालयों, sacramento, अधिक commonly ज्ञात as sacramento State or Sac State, is the largest local university.
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the California State University system.
drexel विश्वविद्यालयों sacramento is located in Downtown, Sacramento.
University of the Pacific 's mcgeorge स्कूल of विधि is स्तिथ in the Oak Park neighborhood.
In addition, the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, डेविस is स्तिथ in आसपास Davis, west of the capital.
The UC Davis Medical Center, a world-renowned शोध हॉस्पिटल, is स्तिथ in the नगर of sacramento.
Memorial Day is a United राज्य संघीय अवकाश जिससे occurs प्रत्येक साल on the फाइनल Monday of May.
मेमोरियल दिन is a दिन of remembering the मेन और महिलाओं जो died जबकि serving in the United States Armed Forces.
formerly ज्ञात as सजावट दिन, it originated बाद the अमरीकी Civil War to commemorate the Union and Confederate soldiers who died in the Civil War.
By the 20th century Memorial Day had been extended to सम्मान सब अमेरिकी जो have died in सब युद्धों.
It typically marks the start of the गर्मियाँ अवकाश ऋतु, जबकि Labor Day marks its end.
Many people visit cemeteries and memorials, विशेषकर to सम्मान those जो have died in military service.
Many स्वयंसेवक प्लेस an अमरीकी ध्वज on प्रत्येक grave in national cemeteries.
By the early 20th century, Memorial Day was an occasion for more general expressions of memory, as people visited the क़ब्रों of उनके मृतक रिश्तेदारों in गिरिजाघर कब्रिस्तान, whether वे था परोसा in the सैन्य or not.
It भी became a long वीकेंड increasingly devoted to shopping, family gatherings, fireworks, trips to the beach, and national media events.
Annual Decoration Days for particular कब्रिस्तान हैं आयोजित on a संडे in लेट वसन्त or जल्दी गर्मियाँ in कुछ ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों of the American South, notably in the mountains.
In cases involving a family graveyard where रिमोट पूर्वजो as खूब as those जो यहूद मृतक अधिक recently हैं दफ्न, इस may लो on the character of an extended family reunion to which some people travel hundreds of miles.
People gather on the designated day and put पुष्प on क़ब्रों और नवीनीकृत सम्पर्क साथ kinfolk और अन्य.
There often is a religious service and a `` dinner on the ground, '' the traditional term for a potluck भोजन in जिससे लोगों प्रयुक्त to स्प्रेड the बर्तन आउट on चादरें or चौके on the grass.
It is believed that this practice began पहले the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और यूँ may प्रतिबिंबित the रियल उत्पत्ति of the `` memorial day '' idea.
Memorial Day is not to be confused with दिग्गजों दिन ; मेमोरियल दिन is a दिन of remembering the मेन and women who died while serving, while Veterans Day celebrates the service of all U.S. military veterans, living or dead.
Mt. zion गिरिजाघर राज्य इतिहास मार्कर near Philadelphia, Mississippi.
Freedom Summer ( also known as the Mississippi Summer Project ) was a campaign in the संयुक्त राज्य शुभारम्भ in जून 1964 to attempt to पंजीकरण as अनेक अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी मतदाता as संभावित in मिसिसिपी, जिससे had historically excluded most blacks from voting.
The project also set up dozens of Freedom Schools, Freedom Houses, and community centers in छोटी कस्बों throughout मिसिसिपी to सहायता the लोकल black population.
The project was organized by the Council of Federated Organizations ( COFO ), a coalition of the Mississippi branches of the चार प्रमुख सिविल अधिकारों संगठन ( sncc, CORE, NAACP and SCLC ).
Most of the impetus, leadership, and financing for the गर्मियाँ प्रोजेक्ट आए इससे the sncc.
Robert Parris Moses, SNCC field secretary and co-director of cofo, निर्देशित the गर्मियाँ project.
Blues is the name given to both a musical form and a music genre that originated in communities of primarily the `` गहन दक्षिण `` of the संयुक्त राज्य around the समाप्त of the 19th सदी इससे spirituals, कार्य गीतों, फ़ील्ड hollers, shouts और chants, and rhymed simple narrative ballads.
The blues form, ubiquitous in jazz, rhythm and blues, and rock and roll is characterized by specific chord progressions, of जिससे the twelve-bar blues chord progression is the most common.
The blue notes that, for expressive purposes are सुंग or निभाई flattened or धीरे झुकी ( नाबालिग 3rd to major 3rd ) in relation to the pitch of the major scale, are also an important part of the sound.
The ब्लूज़ विधा is आधारित on the ब्लूज़ रूप लकिन possesses अन्य विशेषताएँ such as specific lyrics, bass lines, and instruments.
Blues can be subdivided into अनेक subgenres ranging इससे देश to शहरी ब्लूज़ that were more or less popular during different periods of the 20th century.
Best ज्ञात हैं the डेल्टा, piedmont, जम्प, and Chicago blues styles.
World War II marked the transition from ध्वनिक to इलेक्ट्रिक ब्लूज़ और the प्रगतिशील खोलने of ब्लूज़ म्यूज़िक to a wider audience, especially white listeners.
In the 1960s and 1970s, a संकर रूप पुकारा blues-rock विकसित.
The पद `` the ब्लूज़ '' refers to the `` ब्लू शैतानों '', अर्थ वेदना और उदासी ; an जल्दी उपयोग of the term in this sense is found in George Colman 's one-act farce Blue Devils ( 1798 ).
Though the use of the phrase in African-American music may be older, it has been attested to since 1912, when Hart Wand 's `` डलास ब्लूज़ `` became the पहला स्वत्वाधिकार ब्लूज़ संयोजन.
In lyrics the phrase is often used to describe a उदास मनोदशा.
A quarter dollar, commonly shortened to quarter, is a सिक्का लायक 1⁄4 of a संयुक्त राज्य डालर or 25 cents.
The quarter रै महरूम उत्पादित since 1796.
The choice of 25¢ as a denomination, as opposed to 20¢ which is more common in other parts of the world, originated with the अभ्यास of dividing स्पेनी Milled Dollars into eight wedge shaped segments ( cf. `` pieces of eight `` ).
At one time `` two bits ``, i.e. two wedges, each wedge an आठवीं, यूँ a क्वार्टर of the स्पेनी रियल, थी a आम nickname for a quarter.
Day of the Dead ( ) is a मैक्सिकन अवकाश मनाये throughout Mexico and around the world in other cultures.
The holiday focuses on gatherings of family और मित्रों to दुवा लिये और याद मित्रों और परिवार सदस्यों जो have died.
It is particularly celebrated in Mexico, where it is a नेशनल अवकाश, और सब बैंको are closed.
The celebration takes प्लेस on नवम्बर 1 और 2, in कनेक्शन साथ the Catholic holidays of All Saints ' Day and All Souls ' Day.
Traditions connected with the holiday include building private altars honoring the deceased using sugar skulls, marigolds, और the पसंदीदा भोजन और पेय of the रजि और visiting क़ब्रों with these as gifts.
They also छोड़ possessions of the मृतक.
Scholars trace the origins of the modern Mexican holiday to स्वदेशी observances डेटिंग वापस सैंकड़ों of सालो और to an एज़टेक पर्व समर्पित to the goddess Mictecacihuatl.
The holiday has spread throughout the world : In Brazil, Dia de Finados is a पब्लिक अवकाश कि अनेक brazilians celebrate by visiting कब्रिस्तान और churches.
In Spain, there are festivals and parades, and, at the समाप्त of the दिन, लोगों एकत्रित at कब्रिस्तान और दुवा लिये their dead loved ones.
Similar observances occur elsewhere in Europe, and similarly प्रसंग जश्न appear in अनेक एशियाई और अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों.
ANITA mk viii.
The ANITA Mark VII and ANITA Mark VIII calculators यहूद शुभारम्भ simultaneously in लेट 1961 as the संसार 's पहला all- इलेक्ट्रॉनिक desktop calculators.
designed और निर्मित by the Bell Punch Co.
in Britain, and marketed through its Sumlock Comptometer प्रभाग, वे प्रयुक्त वैक्यूम tubes और cold-cathode switching tubes in उनके logic circuits and nixie tubes for their numerical displays.
They were the first of a series of desktop and hand-held इलेक्ट्रॉनिक calculators कि the कम्पनी थी to develop और sell under the ANITA name into the mid-1970s.
George Washington ( –, 1799 ) थी the पहला अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1789–1797 ), the commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय फौज during the American Revolutionary War, and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States.
He presided over the convention कि drafted the संविधान, जिससे replaced the Articles of Confederation and established the position of President.
वॉशिंगटन थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष as the सर्वसम्मत choice of the 69 electors in 1788, and he served two terms in office.
He oversaw the creation of a strong, well-financed नेशनल सरकारी कि कायम neutrality in the युद्धों raging in यूरोपीय, suppressed विद्रोह, and won acceptance among Americans of all types.
His leadership स्टाइल स्थापित अनेक फ़ॉर्म और संस्कार of सरकारी कि have महरूम प्रयुक्त since, such as using a cabinet system and delivering an inaugural address.
Further, the peaceful transition from his presidency to the presidency of John Adams स्थापित a परंपरा कि continues into the 21st सदी.
Washington was hailed as `` father of his country `` even during his lifetime.
Washington was born into the प्रांतीय gentry of औपनिवेशिक वर्जिनिया ; उसके धनवान planter family owned tobacco plantations and slaves.
After both his father and older brother died जब he थी यंग, वॉशिंगटन became personally और professionally संलग्न to the शक्तिशाली विलियम फेयरफैक्स, जो प्रचारित उसके career as a surveyor and soldier.
Washington quickly became a senior officer in the colonial शक्तियां दौरान the पहला चरण of the फ्रेंच और भारतीय युद्ध.
Chosen by the Second महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय फौज in the अमरीकी Revolution, Washington managed to force the British out of Boston in 1776, but was defeated and almost captured later that year when he lost New York City.
After crossing the Delaware River in the मुर्दे of शीत, he पराजित the अंग्रेजों in दो लड़ाइयों, retook New Jersey and restored momentum to the Patriot cause.
Because of his strategy, Revolutionary forces captured two major अंग्रेजों सेना at साराटोगा in 1777 and Yorktown in 1781.
Historians laud Washington लिये उसके चयन और पर्यवेक्षण of उसके सेनापतियों, प्रोत्साहन of मनोबल और क्षमता to थाम साथ the फौज, समन्वय साथ the state governors and state militia units, relations with Congress and attention to supplies, logistics, and training.
In battle, however, वॉशिंगटन थी repeatedly outmaneuvered by British generals with larger armies.
After victory had been finalized in 1783, वॉशिंगटन resigned as commander-in-chief बल्कि than seize शक्ति, proving his opposition to dictatorship and his commitment to American republicanism.
Dissatisfied with the कमजोरियों of the आलेख of कनफेडरेशन, in 1787 वॉशिंगटन presided over the संवैधानिक सम्मेलन कि drafted the United States Constitution.
Elected unanimously as the first President of the संयुक्त राज्य in 1789, he attempted to लाओ प्रतिद्वंद्वी गिरोहों साथ to unify the nation.
He supported Alexander Hamilton 's programs to अदा बंद सब राज्य और नेशनल कर्ज़, to implement an प्रभावी कर प्रणाली और to बनाएँ a नेशनल बैंको ( despite opposition from Thomas Jefferson ).
Washington proclaimed the संयुक्त राज्य न्यूट्रल in the wars raging in Europe after 1793.
He avoided war with Great Britain and गारंटी a दशक of सलाम और लाभप्रद व्यापार by securing the jay सन्धि in 1795, despite intense opposition from the Jeffersonians.
Although never officially joining the federalist पार्टी, he समर्थित इसके programs.
Washington 's Farewell पता थी an influential प्राइमर on रिपब्लिकन पुण्य और a चेतावनी विरूद्ध partisanship, sectionalism, and involvement in foreign wars.
He retired from the presidency in 1797 and returned to his घर, माउंट vernon, और उसके घरेलू जीवन जहाँ he प्रबंधित a किस्में of उद्यमों.
He freed all his स्लेव by उसके फाइनल होगा.
वॉशिंगटन था a दृष्टि of a ग्रेट और शक्तिशाली स्वदेश that would be built on republican lines using federal power.
He sought to use the national government to preserve liberty, improve infrastructure, open the western lands, प्रचार कॉमर्स, मिला a स्थाई पूंजी, reduce क्षेत्रीय तनाव और प्रचार a स्पिरिट of American nationalism.
At his death, Washington was eulogized as `` first in war, first in सलाम, और पहला in the दिल of his countrymen '' by Henry Lee.
The Federalists made him the symbol of their party but for many years, the Jeffersonians जारी to अविश्वास उसके influence और विलम्बित भवन the वॉशिंगटन Monument.
As the leader of the first successful revolution against a colonial empire in world history, वॉशिंगटन became an अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतीक लिये मुक्ति और राष्ट्रवाद, विशेषकर in फ़्रांस and Latin America.
Fiscal साल 2012 u.S. संघीय Spending – Cash or Budget Basis.
Fiscal Year 2012 u.S. संघीय रसीदें.
The Budget of the United States सरकारी प्रायः begins as the अध्यक्ष 's प्रस्ताव to the u.S. कॉंग्रेस जिससे अनुशंसा funding levels for the next fiscal year, beginning October 1.
However, Congress is the body required by law to pass a budget annually और to submit the बजट passed by दोनो घरों to the President for signature.
Congressional decisions are governed by rules और विधान regarding the संघीय budget process.
Budget committees set spending limits for the House and Senate समितियों और लिये appropriations subcommittees, जिससे तब स्वीकृति व्यक्तिगत appropriations बिल्स to allocate funding to various federal programs.
If Congress fails to pass an annual budget ( as has been the case since 2009 ), a series of appropriations बिल्स जरूर be passed as `` रोकें गैप '' उपायों.
After Congress approves an appropriations bill, it is sent to the President, who may चिह्न it into विधि, or may वीटो it ( as he होता a बजट जब passed by the कॉंग्रेस ).
A vetoed bill is sent वापस to कॉंग्रेस, जिससे can pass it into विधि साथ a two-thirds बहुमत in each chamber.
Congress may भी combine सब or कुछ appropriations बिल्स into an omnibus reconciliation bill.
In जोड, the अध्यक्ष may निवेदन और the कॉंग्रेस may pass supplemental appropriations bills or emergency supplemental appropriations bills.
Several government agencies provide बजट आंकड़ा और विश्लेषण.
These include the Government Accountability Office ( GAO ), Congressional Budget Office, the Office of प्रबन्धन और बजट ( omb ) और the u.S. राजकोष विभाग.
These agencies have reported कि the संघीय सरकारी is facing a series of important financing challenges.
In the short-run, tax revenues have अस्वीकृत significantly due to a कठोर मंदी और कर नीति चुनाव, जबकि expenditures have expanded for wars, unemployment insurance and other safety net spending.
In the long-run, expenditures सम्बन्धित to healthcare कार्यक्रम ऐसे as medicare और medicaid हैं प्रक्षिप्त to grow faster than the economy overall as the population matures.
New Guinea ( also, Tok Pisin : Niugini, डच : nieuw गिनी, और ; historically : पापुआ ) is the संसार 's दूसरी largest island, after Greenland, covering a land area of 786,000 km2.
Located in the southwest Pacific Ocean, it झूठ geographically to the ईस्ट of the मलय द्वीपसमूह, साथ जिससे it is sometimes शामिल as भाग of a greater Indo-Australian Archipelago.
Geologically it is a भाग of the वही tectonic plate as Australia.
When world sea levels were कम, the दो साझा shorelines ( which now lie 100 to 140 metres below sea level ), combining with lands now inundated into the tectonic continent of Sahul, also known as Greater Australia.
The two landmasses became separated when the area now ज्ञात as the टोरेस जलसन्धि flooded बाद the समाप्त of the पिछला glacial period.
Anthropologically, नई गिनी is considered part of Melanesia.
Politically, the पश्चिमी हाफ of the द्वीप comprises दो इंडोनेशियाई provinces : Papua and West Papua.
The eastern half forms the mainland of the देश of पापुआ नई गिनी.
The island has a जनसांख्यिकी of परिचय 7.5 लाख, साथ a बहुत कम जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व of only 8 inh/km2.
New Guinea is differentiated from its drier, flatter, and less fertile southern counterpart, Australia, by इसके much उच्चतर वर्षा और इसके क्रियाशील volcanic भूविज्ञान, साथ इसके उच्चतम पाइंट, puncak jaya, reaching an उन्नयन of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ).
Yet the two land masses share a समान एनिमल fauna, साथ marsupials, सहित wallabies और possums, and the egg-laying monotreme, the spiny anteater, or echidna.
Other than bats और कुछ दो दर्जन स्वदेशी कृंतक genera, there are no pre-human indigenous placental mammals.
Pigs, several additional species of rats, and the पूर्वज of the नई गिनी गायन Dog were introduced with human colonization.
The human presence on the island dates back at least 40,000 years to the oldest इंसान migrations आउट of अफ़्रीकी.
Research indicates that the highlands were an early and independent बीच of कृषि, साथ प्रमाण of सिंचाई going back at least 10,000 years.
Because of the time depth of its inhabitation and its highly fractured landscape, an unusually high क्रमांक of भाषाएं हैं बोला on the द्वीप, साथ कुछ 1,000 भाषाएं ( a फिगर उच्चतर than that of most continents ) having been catalogued out of an estimated world-wide pre-Columbian total of 6,000 human dialects.
Most are वर्गीकृत as पापुआई भाषाएं, a generally स्वीकृत geographical term which a minority of authors hold to be a genetic one.
A number of ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई भाषाएं हैं बोला on the coast और on offshore islands.
In the 16th century Spanish explorers discovered the island और पुकारा it नुएवा गिनी.
In हाल इतिहास पश्चिमी नई गिनी थी included in the Dutch East Indies colony.
The Germans annexed the उत्तरी coast of the पूर्वी हाफ of the द्वीप as जर्मनी नई Guinea in their pre–World War I effort to establish themselves as a colonial power, whilst the south eastern portion was reluctantly claimed by Britain.
Following the Treaty of Versailles, the German portion थी awarded to ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( जिससे थी already शासी the अंग्रेजों अर्जी, named the Territory of Papua ) as a League of Nations mandate.
The eastern half of the द्वीप थी granted स्वतंत्रता इससे Australia as Papua New Guinea in 1975.
The western half gained independence इससे the डच in 1961, but became part of Indonesia soon afterwards in controversial circumstances.
`` The Van Buren Boys '' is the 148th episode of the sitcom seinfeld, और नाम of a fictional नई यॉर्क गली gang.
Their sign is crossing the हैंड्स, साथ एक हाथ साथ सब the उंगलियाँ 'up ' and spread out.
The other hand रै सब लकिन the अंगूठा और सूचक उंगली up, for a total of eight ( 8 ).
The gang is नामित लिये the 8th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, मार्टिन वैन buren ( who was the first president from New York ).
This was the 14th एपीसोड लिये the 8th season.
It aired on फ़रवरी 6, 1997.
bevo चिह्न
bevo थी a non-alcoholic malt पेय, or निकट बियर, brewed in the United States by the Anheuser-Busch company beginning in the early 20th century.
Bevo enjoyed its greatest success during the समय of निषेध, जब बियर, वाइन और आसुत liquors, यहूद बना illegal लिये तेरह years.
The anheuser-busch कम्पनी प्रारंभ brewing bevo जब alcoholic पेय यहूद prohibited in 1916 by the United States armed forces.
Production rose greatly with national prohibition in 1919, और bevo थी by दूर the सबसे लोकप्रिय of the अनेक `` खाद्यान्न beverages '' or `` near beers '' of the time.
At the peak of its लोकप्रियता in the जल्दी 1920s, अधिक than पाँच million cases of Bevo were sold annually.
Renard with a mug of Bevo, चित्रित in टेरा cotta on the आंतरिक walls of the Bevo building, St. Louis
लेबल्स on the बोतलों billed it as `` Bevo the Beverage ''.
The name `` Bevo '' was coined इससे the शब्द `` पेय '' और the Slavic language word for beer `` pivo '', and was pronounced `` Bee-vo ''.
Some Bevo advertising प्रदर्शित the अक्षर `` renard the फॉक्स `` ( आधारित on the समर्थक of a मध्यकालीन फ्रेंच folk-tale ), और promotional mugs with this character were manufactured.
In 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a series of boat-bodied cars in its St. लुई दुकानें पुकारा the `` bevo नौकाएँ '' which were used for promotion.
Seven are believed to have been built on pierce-arrow 8-cylinder chassis जबकि एक surviving उदाहरण was based upon 1930 Cadillac 353 V8.
Billboard advertising Bevo in trenton, नई जर्सी, 1917
A contemporary विज्ञापन पढ़ा `` कूलिंग और invigorating, Bevo the Beverage.
Order by the case from अपना पंसारी, druggist, or डीलर. ''
The paper label on the वापस of the बोतल पढ़ा `` the All-Year-Round Soft Drink.
appetizing - healthful - पौष्टिक - Refreshing.
Milk or जल may contain bacteria.
BEVO never करता. ''
bevo became भाग of the लोकप्रिय संस्कृति of the समय, और is उल्लेखित in विभिन्न popular songs and Vaudeville skits of the era.
This led to secondary slang uses of the word ; for example, in American military slang a यंग और अनुभवहीन अधिकारी थी पुकारा a `` Bevo ''.
The विश्वविद्यालयों of टेक्सास नामित इसके शुभंकर `` Bevo '', a name which has stuck to this day.
Irving Berlin included a paean to the drink, `` You Ca n't रहो up on bevo '', in उसके 1917 फौज revue, यिप यिप yaphank.
In the late 1920s smuggled बूटलेग बियर और liquor as खूब as `` homebrew ``, cut into Bevo 's marketshare.
With sales flattening to 100,000 मामले by 1929, anheuser-busch stopped production.
The Bevo Mill, st. लुई, in 2008
The Bevo building, with the Renard character prominently प्रदर्शित at the किनारे, स्टिल operates as a bottling सुविधा at their main brewery in St. Louis, Missouri.
The landmark Bevo Mill, constructed by अगस्त anheuser Busch, Sr. in 1917.
It थी बंद in 2009, लकिन it reopened in अक्तूबर 2009 under new owners.
Bevo is also mentioned in the short story `` The हत्यारे `` by अर्नेस्ट हेमिंगवे ; as खूब as in babbitt by Sinclair Lewis.
Mylanta is an over the counter medication प्रयुक्त लिये the उपचार of एसिड reflux, heartburn, और gastroesophageal reflux disease ( also known as GERD ).
foremilk और hindmilk नमूने of इंसान breast milk
A कांच of pasteurized cow milk
Milk is a white द्रव उत्पादित by the mammary ग्रंथियों of mammals.
It is the प्राथमिक सोर्स of पोषण लिये यंग स्तनधारियों before they are able to digest other types of food.
Early- lactation milk contains colostrum, which carries the माँ 's antibodies to the baby और can reduce the रिस्क of अनेक रोगों in the baby.
It also contains अनेक other nutrients.
As an agricultural उत्पाद, मिल्क is निकाली इससे स्तनधारियों and used as food for humans.
विश्वव्यापी, दुग्ध खेतो उत्पादित परिचय 730 million tonnes of milk in 2011.
India is the world 's largest निर्माता और उपभोक्ता of मिल्क, yet neither exports nor imports milk.
नई जीलैंड, the यूरोपीय संघ 's 27 सदस्य राज्य, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, and the United States are the world 's largest exporters of milk and milk products.
China and Russia हैं the संसार 's largest importers of milk and milk products.
Throughout the world, there are more than 6 अरब उपभोक्ता of मिल्क and milk products.
Over 750 लाख लोगों सजीव भीतर दुग्ध farming households.
Milk is a key contributor to improving nutrition and food सुरक्षा विशेषकर in विकासशील देशों.
Improvements in पशुधन और दुग्ध प्रौद्योगिकी प्रस्ताव significant promise in reducing poverty and malnutrition in the world.
Motorcycle speedway, usually referred to as speedway, is a मोटरसाइकिल खेल involving चार और sometimes up to छह राइडर्स स्पर्धा over चार anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit.
Speedway motorcycles use only one gear और have no brakes और रेसिंग takes प्लेस on a चपटा ओवल track प्रायः consisting of dirt or loosely packed shale.
Competitors use this surface to slide उनके मशीने बगलों, powersliding or broadsiding into the bends.
On the straight sections of the track the मोटरसाइकिल पहुँचें speeds of up.
The exact origins of the sport are unknown but there is evidence of a type of स्पीडवे रेसिंग होने practised in the यूएसए पहले the पहला संसार युद्ध और in ऑस्ट्रेलिया in the लेट 1910s and early 1920s.
There are now both domestic and international प्रतियोगिताओं in a क्रमांक of देशों सहित the स्पीडवे संसार कप whilst the उच्चतम overall स्कोरिंग व्यक्तिगत in the Speedway Grand Prix events is pronounced the world champion.
Speedway is popular in central and northern Europe और to a lesser extent in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और उत्तर अमेरिका.
A variant of track racing, speedway is administered internationally by the fédération internationale de Motocyclisme ( FIM ).
Domestic स्पीडवे कार्यक्रम हैं regulated by fim संबद्ध नेशनल मोटर sport federations.
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible लिये intestinal अवशोषण of calcium and phosphate.
In humans, the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण सम्बन्धित यौगिकों of विटामिन d हैं विटामिन D2 and vitamin D3.
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin d3 ) और ergocalciferol ( विटामिन d2 ) हैं अद्वितीय as वे constitute कया we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
the देह can भी synthesize विटामिन d ( इससे कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) जब सूर्य एक्सपोज़र is adequate ( hence its nickname, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin, it is not दरअसल an अनिवार्य dietary विटामिन in the सख्त भाव, as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight.
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize विटामिन d efficiently और जरूर receive it in their diet. )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from their diet.
However, as with other compounds commonly called vitamins, vitamin D was discovered in an effort to find the dietary substance that थी lacking in a बीमारी, namely, rickets, the बाल्यकाल रूप of osteomalacia.
Additionally, like अन्य यौगिकों पुकारा विटामिन, in the विकसित संसार विटामिन d is added to staple foods, such as milk, to avoid disease due to deficiency.
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous synthesis from exposure to sunlight as well as सेवन इससे the आहार, और it is believed कि संश्लेषण may योगदान generally to the मेंटेनेंस of adequate serum concentrations.
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity but, because of uncertainty about the cancer risk from sunlight, no सुझाव हैं जारी by the संस्थान of आयुर्विज्ञान, यूएसए, लिये the राशि of सूर्य एक्सपोज़र जरूरी to मिलें vitamin D requirements.
तदनुसार, the dietary सन्दर्भ intakes लिये विटामिन d assume कि no संश्लेषण occurs और कि सब of a व्यक्ति 's vitamin D is from their diet, although that will rarely occur in practice.
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol, which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( oh ) d ; और जिससे is the विशिष्ट विटामिन d metabolite कि is measured in सीरम to determine a व्यक्ति 's विटामिन d औकात.
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically active form of विटामिन D. calcitriol circulates as a हार्मोन in the रक्त, regulating the विशेषज्ञता of कैल्सियम और फास्फेट in the bloodstream और promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone.
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes, such as the proliferation, differentiation और apoptosis of कोशिकाएं ; calcitriol भी affects neuromuscular function and inflammation.
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the evidence लिये अन्य स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव of विटामिन d supplementation in the सामान्य population is inconsistent.
The best प्रमाण of लाभ is लिये अस्थि health and a decrease in mortality in elderly women.
The Duramax is a General Motors डीज़ल इंजन परिवार लिये light- और मीडियम ड्यूटी ट्रक, designed by Isuzu.
The 6.6-liter Duramax is produced by DMAX, a joint venture between gm और isuzu in moraine, ओहियो.
This engine was initially installed in 2001 model year Chevy and GMC trucks and रै महरूम an विकल्प चूंकि तब in pickups, वैन, और medium-duty ट्रक.
In 2006, उत्पादन at moraine थी reportedly limited to approximately 200,000 engines per year.
On May 9, 2007, DMAX घोषित the उत्पादन of the 1,000,000th duramax v-8 डीज़ल at its Moraine facility.
duramax LML
balto.
is भी a परंपरागत लिखा संक्षिप्त लिये बाल्टीमोर, Maryland.
प्रतिमा of balto in Central Park ( New York City )
Balto ( 1919 – March 14, 1933 ) थी a siberian हस्की sled श्वान जो led उसके टोली on the फाइनल लेग of the 1925 सीरम चलाएं to nome, in जिससे डिप्थीरिया antitoxin थी transported इससे anchorage, Alaska, to Nenana, Alaska, by train and then to Nome by dog sled to combat an outbreak of the disease.
The run is commemorated by the सालाना iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race.
Balto was named after the सामी एक्सप्लोरर सैमुएल balto.
Balto died at the आयु of 14.
Professor Stephen Hawking, known for being a theoretical physicist, रै appeared in अनेक works of लोकप्रिय संस्कृति.
The Nissan Maxima is a mid-size / entry-level लक्ज़री car manufactured by निसान, marketed as the `` four-door sports car ''.
The origins of the Maxima began in July 1976 as the Datsun 810, an upscale six-cylinder version of the bluebird, और थी spun into इसके अपना लकीर in 1981, having महरूम made continuously since then.
The `` Maxima '' name was applied धीरे, शुरूआत in 1981.
Most pre-2004 Maximas were built in Oppama, जापानी, जबतक the वर्तमान उत्तर अमरीकी Maximas started being assembled in Smyrna, Tennessee.
The `` Maxima '' has also महरूम लागू to cefiros और Laurels in various markets.
propolis as छत्ता sealing
Propolis is a resinous mixture that मधु मधुमक्खियों collect इससे पेड़ कलियों, sap बहती, or other botanical sources.
It is used as a sealant लिये अनावश्यक खोलें स्पेसेस in the hive.
propolis is प्रयुक्त लिये छोटी गैप ( लगभग or कम ), जबकि larger spaces are usually filled with beeswax.
Its color varies depending on इसके वनस्पति सोर्स, the most common being dark brown.
Propolis is sticky at और ऊपर रूम तापमान,.
At lower temperatures, it becomes hard and very brittle.
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor Tallarico ; March 26, 1948 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, और multi-instrumentalist, बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the frontman और सीसे सिंगर of the बोस्टन -आधारd चट्टान बैंड एरोस्मिथ, in which he also plays the harmonica, and occasional piano and percussion.
He is known as the `` राक्षस of screamin ' '' due to उसके high screams and his wide vocal range.
He is also known for his on-stage acrobatics.
During his high-energy performances, he usually dresses in उज्जवल, रंगीन outfits साथ उसके ट्रेडमार्क स्कार्फ hanging from his microphone stand.
In the 1970s, टायलर रोज़ to prominence as the frontman of एरोस्मिथ, जिससे released such milestone hard rock albums as Toys in the Attic and Rocks.
In the late 1970s and early 1980s, Tyler था a भारी ड्रग और दारू व्यसन, और the band 's popularity waned.
He completed drug rehabilitation in 1986 and subsequently कायम गम्भीरता लिये over 20 सालो, लकिन था a पतन साथ नुस्खा painkillers in the late 2000s, for which he successfully received treatment in 2009.
After Aerosmith launched a remarkable comeback in the लेट 1980s और जल्दी 1990s साथ the एल्बम स्थाई अवकाश, पंप, और Get a Grip, Tyler became a household name and has remained a relevant rock icon.
As a result, he has since embarked on several solo endeavors including guest appearances on other artists ' music, film and TV roles ( सहित as a न्यायधीश on अमरीकी आइडल ), authoring a bestselling किताब, और सोलो कार्य ( सहित a Top 40 hit single in 2011 ).
however, he रै जारी to रिकार्ड म्यूज़िक और perform साथ एरोस्मिथ, after more than 43 years in the band.
The band 's नवीनतम एल्बम, म्यूज़िक इससे Another Dimension !
, थी released on November 6, 2012.
Tyler is included among Rolling पत्थरों 100 महानतम Singers.
He was also ranked 3rd on hit parader 's शीर्ष 100 मेटल Vocalists of All Time.
In 2001 he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame with एरोस्मिथ, और he थी the प्रस्तुतकर्ता जब ac/dc थी inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2003.
In 2013, Tyler और उसके songwriting संगी जो पेरी होगा be प्राप्तकर्ता of the ascap संस्थापकों Award and will also be inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame.
The liver produces यूरिया in the urea cycle as a waste product of the digestion of protein.
Normal human वयस्क रक्त चाहिए contain between 7 to 21 mg of यूरिया नाइट्रोजन per 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of blood.
Individual laboratories may have different सन्दर्भ सीमाएँ, और इस is क्युकी the procedure may vary.
Wayne Fontes ( born February 2, 1940 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच और कॉलेज और पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल खिलाड़ी who was the head coach of the NFL 's Detroit Lions from 1988 to 1996.
His 67 wins और 71 नुकसान हैं प्रत्येक the सबसे for a head coach in team history.
The Jews ( ISO 259-3 Israeli pronunciation ), also known as the Jewish people, are a nation और an ethnoreligious समूह, originating in the israelites or hebrews of the प्राचीन निकट ईस्ट.
The Jewish ethnicity, nationality, and religion हैं strongly interrelated, as judaism is the परंपरागत आस्था of the Jewish nation.
Converts to judaism, जिनकी औकात as यहूदियों भीतर the यहूदी ethnos is बराबर to those born into it, have been absorbed into the Jewish people throughout the millennia.
In Jewish tradition, Jewish ancestry is traced to the biblical patriarchs अब्राहम, Isaac and Jacob in the second millennium BCE.
The modern State of Israel was स्थापित as a यहूदी nation-state, और defines itself as such in its Basic Laws.
Its Law of वापसी अनुदान the सही of नागरिकता to any Jew who requests it.
Israel is the only country जहाँ यहूदियों हैं a बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी.
यहूदियों भी enjoyed राजनैतिक स्वायत्तता twice before in ancient history.
The first of these periods lasted इससे 1350 to 586 bce, और encompassed the अवधि of the न्यायाधीशों, the United Monarchy, and the Divided Monarchy of the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah, ending with the destruction of the First Temple.
The second was the period of the Hasmonean Kingdom spanning इससे 140 to 37 BCE.
Since the विनाश of the पहला टेम्पल, most Jews have lived in diaspora.
A minority in every country in which they सजीव ( मगर इसराईल ), वे have अक्सर अनुभवी persecution throughout इतिहास, resulting in a population that has fluctuated both in numbers and distribution over the centuries.
The world Jewish population reached a peak of 15 लाख prior to the दूसरी संसार युद्ध, लकिन छह लाख यहूदियों यहूद killed in the Holocaust.
Since then the population has risen again and, थी अनुमानित at 13.4 लाख by the उत्तर अमरीकी यहूदी आंकड़ा बैंको, or कम than 0.2 % of the कुल world population ( roughly one in every 514 people ).
According to this report, about 42.5 % of all Jews reside in Israel ( 5.7 million ), and 39.3 % in the संयुक्त राज्य ( 5.3 लाख ), साथ सबसे of the शेष जीना in यूरोपीय ( 1.5 million ) and Canada ( 0.4 million ).
These numbers include all those जो consider themselves यहूदियों, whether or नहीं वे हैं संबद्ध with a Jewish organization.
the कुल संसार यहूदी जनसांख्यिकी, however, is difficult to measure.
In addition to issues with census methodology, वहीँ हैं halakhic विवादों regarding जो is a jew और धर्मनिरपेक्ष, राजनैतिक, and ancestral identification factors that may affect the figure considerably.
Corpus christi बारात.
Oil on canvas by कार्ल एमिल doepler.
Corpus domini redirects यहाँ.
For other uses see कॉर्पस domini ( बहुविकल्पी )
The Feast of कॉर्पस christi ( लैटिन लिये देह of मसीह ), भी ज्ञात as कॉर्पस domini, is a लैटिन Rite liturgical solemnity celebrating the tradition and belief in the body and blood of Jesus Christ and his Real Presence in the Eucharist.
It emphasizes the joy of the institution of the Eucharist, जिससे थी observed on पावन गुरुवार in the somber माहौल of the nearness of Good Friday.
In the present Roman Missal, the feast is designated the solemnity of the सबसे पावन देह और रक्त of Christ.
It is also मनाये in कुछ anglican, लूथरन, और Old Catholic Churches that hold similar beliefs regarding the Real Presence.
The feast is liturgically मनाये on the गुरुवार बाद ट्रिनिटी संडे or, `` जहाँ the solemnity of the सबसे पावन देह और रक्त of मसीह is नहीं a पावन दिन of Obligation, it is assigned to the Sunday after the Most Holy Trinity as its proper day ''.
at the समाप्त of पावन द्रव्यमान, वहीँ is प्रायः a बारात of the धन्य Sacrament, generally displayed in a monstrance.
The procession is followed by सुनाकर of the धन्य Sacrament.
A notable Eucharistic procession is that presided over by the Pope each year in Rome, जहाँ it begins at the archbasilica of st. जॉन lateran और makes इसके रास्ता to the basilica of संत मरियम प्रमुख, where it concludes with Benediction.
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a प्रोटीन मिला in the रक्त, the स्तर of जिससे वृद्धि in जवाब to सूजन ( i.e. C-reactive protein is an acute-phase protein ).
Its physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the सतह of मुर्दे or मरना कोशिकाएं ( और कुछ प्रकार of bacteria ) in order to activate the complement system via the C1Q complex.
CRP is synthesized by the liver in response to कारकों released by macrophages और मोटे कोशिकाएं ( adipocytes ).
It is a सदस्य of the pentraxin परिवार of proteins.
It is not related to c-peptide or protein C.
c-reactive प्रोटीन थी the पहला पैटर्न recognition receptor ( PRR ) to be identified.
The start of the systematic यूरोपीय colonization of the americas is typically दिनाँक to 1492, जब a स्पेनी expedition headed by Christopher Columbus sailed for India to open trade but inadvertently discovered the Americas.
European conquest, large-scale खोजी और colonization जल्द followed.
Seeing that Europe was preoccupied साथ अनेक आतंरिक युद्धों और थी धीरे recovering इससे the अनेक मौतों कि the bubonic प्लेग caused, the rapid expansion at which it grew in wealth and power was unforeseeable in the early 1400s.
The first expeditions occurred along the Caribbean coasts on the आइलैंड्स of हिस्पानिओला, प्यूर्टो रीको और क्यूबा, और बाद 1500 extended into the interiors of both North and South America.
In 1497, sailing from the उत्तर on निमित्त of इंग्लैण्ड, जॉन cabot उतरा on the उत्तर अमरीकी coast, and a year later, Columbus 's third voyage reached the South American coast.
France founded colonies in much of eastern North America, on a number of caribbean आइलैंड्स, और in दक्षिण America.
Portugal colonized ब्राज़ील.
Eventually, the entire Western Hemisphere आए अंतर्गत the कंट्रोल of यूरोपीय सरकारें, अग्रणी to profound changes to its landscape, population, and plant and animal life.
In the 19th century alone over 50 million people बाएँ यूरोपीय लिये the americas.
The post-1492 era is ज्ञात as the काल of the columbian Exchange.
Keith Richards ( born 18 December 1943 ) is an English संगीतकार, singer-songwriter और संस्थापक सदस्य of the अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड the Rolling Stones.
Rolling Stone magazine said रिचर्ड्स था निर्मित `` चट्टान 's महानतम सिंगल देह of riffs '', रैंकिंग उसे 4th on its list of 100 best guitarists.
Fourteen songs Richards wrote with the रोलिंग पत्थरों ' सीसे vocalist मिक जैगर हैं सूचीबद्ध among रोलिंग Stone magazine 's `` 500 Greatest Songs of All Time ``.
Richards ' notoriety for illicit drug use stems in part from several ड्रग busts दौरान the लेट 1960s और 1970s और उसके candour regarding उसके व्यसन to और eventual abstinence from heroin.
Testosterone is a steroid hormone from the androgen समूह और is मिला in स्तनधारियों, सरीसृपों, पक्षियों, and other vertebrates.
In mammals, testosterone is primarily secreted in the अंडकोष of males और the अंडाशय of महिलाओं, हालांकि छोटी amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands.
It is the principal male sex हार्मोन और an anabolic स्टेरॉयड.
In men, testosterone plays a कुंजी भूमिका in the विकास of पुरूष reproductive tissues such as the testis and prostate as well as promoting secondary sexual characteristics such as increased muscle, bone mass, and the growth of body hair.
In जोड, टेस्टोस्टेरोन is अनिवार्य लिये स्वास्थ्य and well-being as well as the prevention of osteoporosis.
On average, in adult human males, the plasma विशेषज्ञता of टेस्टोस्टेरोन is परिचय 7–8 टाइम्स as ग्रेट as the विशेषज्ञता in वयस्क इंसान महिलाओं ' plasma, but as the metabolic consumption of testosterone in males is greater, the daily production is about 20 times greater in men.
महिलाओं भी हैं अधिक संवेदनशील to the hormone.
Testosterone is observed in सबसे vertebrates.
Fish make a थोड़ा अलग रूप पुकारा 11-ketotestosterone.
Its बंटवारा in कीट is ecdysone.
These सर्वव्यापी steroids सुझाएँ कि sex hormones have an ancient evolutionary history.
Cluster sampling is a sampling technique used when `` natural '' but relatively समरूप groupings हैं evident in a सांख्यिकीय जनसांख्यिकी.
It is often used in विपणन शोध.
In this technique, the total population is divided into these groups ( or clusters ) और a सरल यादृच्छिक नमूना of the समूह is selected.
Then the required सूचना is एकत्रित इससे a सरल यादृच्छिक नमूना of the तत्व भीतर प्रत्येक चयनित group.
This may be किया लिये प्रत्येक तत्व in ये समूह or a subsample of elements may be selected within each of these groups.
A common motivation for cluster sampling is to reduce the कुल क्रमांक of साक्षात्कार और लागत दिए the desired accuracy.
assuming a फिक्स्ड नमूना आकार, the तकनीक देता अधिक सटीक परिणाम जब सबसे of the विभिन्नता in the population is within the groups, not between them.
Jamestown is a town in Guilford County, North Carolina, United States, और is a उपनगरीय of the आसपास शहरों of greensboro and High Point.
The population was 3,382 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Natalie पोर्टमैन ( born नताली Hershlag ; ; June 9, 1981 ) is an actress and model with dual American and Israeli citizenship.
Her first role was as an orphan taken in by a हिटमैन in the 1994 कार्रवाई फिल्मी, लकिन मुख्यधारा कामयाबी आए when she was cast as Padmé Amidala in the Star Wars prequel trilogy ( released in 1999, 2002 and 2005 ).
In 1999, she enrolled at Harvard विश्वविद्यालयों to पढ़ाई मनोविज्ञान जबकि स्टिल working as an actress.
She completed उसके स्नातक 's उपाधि in 2003.
in 2001, पोर्टमैन खोली in नई यॉर्क नगर 's Public Theater production of Anton Chekhov 's The Seagull.
In 2005, Portman received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress और जीती the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री - गति चित्र लिये the drama Closer.
She won a Constellation Award for Best मादा प्रदर्शन और a शनि पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके starring role in V for Vendetta ( 2006 ).
She played leading roles in the historical dramas Goya 's Ghosts ( 2006 ) and The अन्य बोलिन लड़की ( 2008 ).
In may 2008, वो परोसा as the youngest सदस्य of the 61st Annual Cannes Film Festival jury.
Portman 's directorial debut, Eve, opened the 65th Venice अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी पर्व 's शॉर्ट्स प्रतियोगिता in 2008.
Portman directed a खण्ड of the सामूहिक फिल्मी नई यॉर्क, I Love You.
In 2011, पोर्टमैन जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार, the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार, the bafta पुरस्कार, the स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार, और the Independent Spirit Award for her lead performance as Nina Sayers in Black Swan.
तांबे is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ the प्रतीक Cu ( from ) and atomic number 29.
It is a ductile मेटल साथ बहुत ऊँची थर्मल और विद्युत conductivity.
Pure copper is soft and malleable ; a freshly उजागर सतह रै a reddish-orange color.
It is used as a conductor of ऊष्मा और विद्युत, a भवन सामग्री, and a constituent of various metal alloys.
The मेटल और इसके alloys have महरूम प्रयुक्त for thousands of years.
In the Roman era, copper was प्रधानतया mined on साइप्रस, hence the उत्पत्ति of the नाम of the मेटल as сyprium ( मेटल of साइप्रस ), later shortened to сuprum.
Its compounds are commonly encountered as copper ( II ) salts, which often impart blue or ग्रीन रंगों to खनिज ऐसे as azurite और फ़िरोज़ा और have been widely used historically as pigments.
Architectural structures built with copper corrode to दे ग्रीन verdigris ( or patina ).
Decorative art prominently सुविधाएँ तांबे, दोनो by itself and as part of pigments.
Copper is essential to all living organisms as a trace dietary mineral because it is a key constituent of the respiratory एंजाइम जटिल cytochrome c oxidase.
In molluscs and crustacea copper is a constituent of the blood रंजक hemocyanin, जिससे is replaced by the iron-complexed hemoglobin in fish and other vertebrates.
The main areas where copper is मिला in vertebrates हैं जिगर, muscle and bone.
In sufficient concentration, copper compounds हैं जहरीला to उच्चतर जीवों और हैं प्रयुक्त as bacteriostatic substances, fungicides, and wood preservatives.
The major professional sports leagues, or simply major leagues, in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा हैं the उच्चतम पेशेवर प्रतियोगिताओं of टोली खेल in the दो देशों.
Although व्यक्तिगत खेल ऐसे as गोल्फ़, टेनिस, और स्वचालित रेसिंग हैं भी very popular, the term is usually limited to team sports.
The term `` major लीग '' थी पहला प्रयुक्त in 1921 in सन्दर्भ to प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ), the शीर्ष स्तर of पेशेवर American baseball.
Today, the major northern North America professional team खेल लीग हैं प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ), the नेशनल बास्केट संघ ( NBA ), the National Football League ( NFL ), and the National Hockey League ( NHL ).
Other notable leagues include प्रमुख लीग सॉकर ( mls ), the कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( cfl ), the एरिना फ़ुटबॉल लीग, प्रमुख लीग lacrosse, the National Lacrosse League and the Women 's National Basketball Association.
the एनएफएल, एमएलबी, एनबीए, और एनएचएल हैं commonly referred to as the Big Four.
प्रत्येक of ये is the richest पेशेवर club competition in its sport worldwide.
The best players can become cultural icons in both countries and elsewhere in the संसार, क्युकी the लीग आनंद a significant प्लेस in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति in the US and Canada.
the एनएफएल रै 32 टीमों, और the अन्य have 30 each.
The vast majority of major league teams are concentrated in the सबसे populous महानगर क्षेत्रों of the United States.
Baseball, football, hockey, and soccer have had professional leagues for over 100 years ; early leagues such as the National Association, ओहियो लीग, और नेशनल हॉकी संघ formed the आधार of the आधुनिक एमएलबी, एनएफएल और NHL respectively.
Soccer थी पहला professionalized in 1894, लकिन लीग suffered greatly from lack of sustainability and seldom lasted more than a decade.
Soccer 's greatest successes यहूद in the रूप of the अमरीकी सॉकर लीग ( 1921-1933 ), the असली उत्तर अमरीकी Soccer League ( 1968-1984 ), the National Professional Soccer League ( 1984-2001 ) and, currently, Major League Soccer ( 1996-present ).
Basketball is a relatively new development ; the NBA evolved from the नेशनल बास्केट लीग और इसके splinter समूह the बास्केट संघ of अमेरिका, लेने on इसके current form in 1949.
Every प्रमुख लीग averages 15,000 प्रशंसक in उपस्थिति per game or higher as of 2011.
Meridian Altitude is an खगोलीय नेविगेशन विधि of calculating an निरीक्षक 's latitude.
Earned value management ( EVM ), or Earned value project/performance प्रबन्धन ( evpm ) is a प्रोजेक्ट प्रबन्धन तकनीक लिये measuring प्रोजेक्ट performance and progress in an objective manner.
Because EVM रै the क्षमता to combine माप of :
पैमाना
अनुसूची
और cost,
in a single integrated system, Earned Value Management is able to provide accurate forecasts of प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन समस्याएं, जिससे is an महत्वपूर्ण योगदान for project management.
Early EVM research showed that the areas of planning and control are significantly impacted by इसके उपयोग ; और similarly, using the methodology improves दोनो पैमाना परिभाषा as खूब as the विश्लेषण of overall project performance.
More recent research studies have shown कि the सिद्धान्त of evm हैं धनात्मक predictors of प्रोजेक्ट success.
Popularity of evm रै grown significantly in हाल सालो परे सरकारी contracting, in जिससे sector its importance continues to rise ( e.g., recent new DFAR rules ), in part because EVM can also surface in and help substantiate contract disputes.
रंगीन वसन्त garden flowers
Spring is one of the four conventional शीतोष्ण सीज़न, following शीत और preceding summer.
There are विभिन्न तकनीकी परिभाषाएं of वसन्त, लकिन लोकल usage of the term varies according to local climate, cultures and customs.
When it is वसन्त in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध, it होगा be autumn in the southern hemisphere.
At the spring equinox, days are close to 12 hours long with day लंबाई increasing as the ऋतु progresses.
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season, and भी to विचार of rebirth, कायाकल्प, नवीकरण, क़यामत, और regrowth, साथ त्यौहार ऐसे as Carnival, Easter and Holi being celebrated at this time.
Jamestown थी a उपनिवेश in the उपनिवेश of वर्जिनिया, the first permanent English settlement in the Americas.
Established by the Virginia Company of London as `` जेम्स फोर्ट '' on may 14, 1607 ( o.s., may 24, 1607 n.s. ), it followed several earlier failed attempts, including the Lost Colony of Roanoke.
jamestown परोसा as the पूंजी of the colony for 83 years, from 1616 until 1699.
The settlement थी स्तिथ भीतर the territory of a राजनैतिक एंटिटी ज्ञात as tsenacommacah, the राज्य of the Powhatan Confederacy, with around 14,000 native inhabitants, and specifically was in part of the subdivision known as the Paspahegh tribe.
The natives initially welcomed the colonists with dancing, feasting and tobacco ceremonies, और वे provided निर्णायक प्रावधानों और support लिये the अस्तित्व of the colonists, जो यहूद नहीं agriculturally inclined, हालांकि relations with the newcomers also soured fairly early on, leading to the total annihilation of the Paspahegh in warfare within 3 years.
Within a year of Jamestown 's founding, the वर्जिनिया कम्पनी brought पॉलिश और डच colonists to help improve the settlement.
In 1619, the पहला प्रलेखित africans यहूद brought to jamestown, हालांकि the आधुनिक धारणा of slavery in the future United States did not begin in Virginia until 1660.
जब the उपनिवेश थी subdivided into the असली आठ shires of Virginia in 1634, the town became located in the eponymous James City Shire.
The London Company 's second settlement, Bermuda, claims to be the site of the oldest town in the English New World, as St. George 's, Bermuda was officially established ( as New London ) in 1612, whereas जेम्स फोर्ट, in वर्जिनिया, थी नहीं to be परिवर्तित into जेम्स towne until 1619, and further did not survive into the present day.
In 1699, the capital was relocated from Jamestown to what is today williamsburg, बाद जिससे jamestown ceased to मौजूद as a उपनिवेश, मौजूदा आज तभी as an पुरातत्व site.
Today, jamestown is एक of तीन स्थितियाँ comprising the ऐतिहासिक त्रिभुज of औपनिवेशिक वर्जिनिया, साथ साथ Williamsburg and Yorktown, with two primary heritage sites.
Historic Jamestowne, the पुरातत्व साईट on jamestown द्वीप, is a सहकारी प्रयत्न by jamestown नेशनल ऐतिहासिक साईट ( भाग of Colonial National Historical Park ), and Preservation Virginia.
The Jamestown Settlement, a living history interpretive साईट, is संचालित by the jamestown yorktown Foundation in conjunction with the Commonwealth of Virginia.
जेम्स क्रिस्टोफर फ्रे ( born September 12, 1969 ) is an American writer.
His books A Million Little Pieces ( 2003 ) and My Friend लियोनार्ड ( 2005 ), as well as Bright Shiny Morning ( 2008 ), were bestsellers.
He was the subject of a scandal जब जांचकर्ताओं खोजा कि थाना समय और the extent of निश्चित चोटों यहूद अतिरंजित in A Million Little Pieces, a purportedly autobiographical account of the author 's struggle with addiction.
Deere & Company, most commonly known by its name John Deere, is an American corporation based in Moline, Illinois, और एक of the largest निर्माताओं of agricultural मशीनरी in the world.
In 2012, it थी सूचीबद्ध as 97th in the सौभाग्य 500 अमेरिका 's रैंकिंग and 190th in the Fortune 500 Global ranking.
Deere and Company agricultural products, sold under the John Deere name, include tractors, combine harvesters, cotton harvesters, balers, planters / seeders, sprayers, और utvs.
The company is also a manufacturer of construction equipment and वानिकी उपकरण, as खूब as a प्रदायक of डीज़ल इंजन and drivetrains ( axles, transmissions, gearboxes ) used in heavy equipment.
Additionally, John Deere manufactures उपकरण प्रयुक्त in लॉन, grounds, और turf परवाह, ऐसे as walk-behind lawn mowers, zero-turn lawn mowers, lawn tractors, and snowthrowers.
To support the कोर व्यवसायों, जॉन Deere also provides financial services and other related activities.
The company 's slogan is `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere '' and has a picture of a leaping deer as a लोगो, a शब्द खेल pun on `` nothing रनों जैसे a हिरण ''.
कार्ल westby coined the phrase `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere '' for a marketing campaign to sell snowmobiles.
The company 's उत्पाद हैं भी identifiable by इसके distinctive shade of green paint, usually augmented by yellow trim.
the संयुक्त राज्य ten-dollar विधेयक ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States currency.
The first U.S. Secretary of the राजकोष ( 1789–95 ), सिकंदर हैमिल्टन, is फिलहाल प्रदर्शित on the obverse of the विधेयक, जबकि the u.S. Treasury Building is featured on the reverse.
( Hamilton is one of two non-presidents प्रदर्शित on फिलहाल जारी u.S. bills.
The other is बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is one of only four people प्रदर्शित on u.S. पेपर करेंसी ( 1861 to the उपस्थित ) जो थी नहीं born in the महाद्वीपीय United States, as he was from the West Indies.
The others are : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade, Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note ) ; और रॉबर्ट मॉरिस, इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ; $ 10 1878/80 चांदी प्रमाणपत्र ).
In addition, kamehameha i, appears on the 2008 हवाई राज्य quarter. )
All $ 10 बिल्स जारी आज हैं संघीय Reserve Notes.
The Bureau of नक्काशी और मुद्रण says the औसत जीवन of a $ 10 विधेयक in circulation is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear.
लगभग 6 % of सब US banknotes printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
Ten dollar bills are वितरित by संघीय आरक्षित बैंको in पीला straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is जॉन trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट of हैमिल्टन कि belongs to the पोर्ट्रेट संग्रहण of नई यॉर्क नगर Hall.
The $ 10 bill is the तभी u.S. पेपर करेंसी in परिसंचरण in जिससे the पोर्ट्रेट चेहरों to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a portrait of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left, but was used only for intra-government transactions ).
Andy Samuel Griffith ( June 1, 1926 – July 3, 2012 ) was an American actor, television निर्माता, ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning southern-gospel सिंगर, और लेखक.
He was a Tony Award nominee for two roles, and gained prominence in the starring role in director एलिया कज़न 's फिल्मी a फेस in the भीड ( 1957 ) पहले he became बेहतर ज्ञात लिये उसके टेलीविज़न भूमिकाएँ, playing the सीसे वर्ण in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama Matlock.
Theresa Penelope `` Terri '' Irwin, ( née Raines ; born जुलाई 20, 1964 ) is an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई -आधारd, अमरीकी -born naturalist, लेखक, the विधवा of ऑस्ट्रेलियाई naturalist Steve Irwin and owner of Australia Zoo at Beerwah, Queensland, Australia.
She co-starred with her husband on The Crocodile Hunter, their unconventional television nature documentary श्रेणी साथ साथ इसके spin-off श्रेणी, क्रोक फाइलें और the मगरमच्छ Hunter Diaries.
वो रै जिया in ऑस्ट्रेलिया चूंकि 1992, when she married Steve Irwin.
Andreas cellarius 's उदाहरण of the copernican प्रणाली, इससे the Harmonia Macrocosmica ( 1660 ).
Heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the astronomical model in which the धरती और ग्रह revolve around a अपेक्षाकृत stationary सूर्य at the center of the Solar System.
The word comes from the Greek ( helios `` सूर्य '' और kentron `` बीच '' ).
Historically, heliocentrism was opposed to geocentrism, जिससे लगाई the धरती at the बीच.
The notion that the Earth घूमती around the सूर्य था महरूम प्रस्तावित as जल्दी as the 3rd सदी bc by aristarchus of samos, लकिन aristarchus 's heliocentrism attracted little attention until Copernicus revived and elaborated it.
Lucio Russo, however, argues that this is a भ्रामक छाप resulting इससे the घाटा of वैज्ञानिक works of the Hellenistic Era.
Using indirect evidence he argues कि a heliocentric दृश्य was expounded in Hipparchus 's work on gravity.
It was not until the 16th century that a fully predictive गणितीय मॉडल of a heliocentric प्रणाली थी प्रस्तुत, by the पुनर्जागरण गणितज्ञ, astronomer, and Catholic cleric Nicolaus Copernicus of Poland, leading to the Copernican Revolution.
In the following सदी, योहानेस कॅप्लर elaborated upon और विस्तारित इस मॉडल to शामिल अंडाकार orbits, और supporting observations made using a telescope were presented by Galileo Galilei.
With the observations of विलियम हर्शेल, फ्रेडरिक bessel, और अन्य, खगोलशास्त्रियों एहसास कि the सूर्य थी नहीं the बीच of the ब्रह्मांड और by the 1920s एडविन हबल had shown that it was part of a galaxy ( the Milky Way ) that was only one of many billions.
Norah Jones ( born Geetali Norah जोन्स शंकर ; कूच 30, 1979 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter, pianist, and actress.
She is the बेटी of भारतीय सितार player Ravi Shankar and Sue Jones.
She is भी anoushka शंकर 's half-sister.
In 2002, she launched her solo music career with the release of the commercially कामयाब और critically acclaimed एल्बम आइये दूर साथ me, a संलयन of देश म्यूज़िक और पॉप साथ तत्व of jazz which was certified diamond album, selling over 26 million copies.
The record earned Jones पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, सहित the एल्बम of the साल, रिकार्ड of the Year, and Best New Artist.
Her subsequent स्टुडियो एल्बम, feels जैसे घर, released in 2004, नहीं too लेट, released in 2007, the वही साल वो बना उसके फिल्मी डेब्यू in my ब्लूबेरी Nights, and her 2009 release The Fall all gained Platinum status, selling over a million copies and were generally well received by critics.
Jones ' fifth studio album, Little टूटा दिल, थी released on अप्रैल 27, 2012.
Jones has won nine Grammy Awards and was 60th on बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका 's कलाकारों of the 2000–2009 decade chart.
Throughout her career, जोन्स रै जीती numerous पुरस्कार और रै बेची more than 50 million albums worldwide.
Billboard named her the top जैज़ कलाकार of the 2000–2009 दशक.
Not to be confused with आयाम of a शारीरिक मात्रा.
For other uses, देखिए आयाम ( बहुविकल्पी ).
From left to right, the वर्गाकार, the cube, and the tesseract.
The square is bounded by 1-dimensional लाइनों, the घन by 2-dimensional क्षेत्रों, and the tesseract by 3-dimensional volumes.
A projection of the cube is given since it is viewed on a two-dimensional स्क्रीन.
The same applies to the tesseract, which additionally can तभी be दिखाया as a projection even in three-dimensional space.
A आरेख प्रर्दशित the पहला चार spatial dimensions.
In physics and mathematics, the dimension of a space or object is informally defined as the न्यूनतम क्रमांक of निर्देशांक needed to बताएँ कोई पाइंट भीतर it.
Thus a line has a आयाम of एक क्युकी तभी एक निर्देशांक is needed to बताएँ a point on it ( for example, the point at 5 on a number line ).
A surface such as a plane or the surface of a cylinder or sphere has a dimension of two because two coordinates are needed to specify a पाइंट on it ( लिये उदाहरण, to locate a पाइंट on the सतह of a गोला तुम need दोनो इसके अक्षांश and its longitude ).
The inside of a घन, a बेलन or a गोला is three-dimensional क्युकी three coordinates are needed to locate a point within these spaces.
In physical terms, dimension refers to the constituent structure of all space ( volume ) and its position in time ( perceived as a scalar dimension along the t-axis ), as well as the स्थानिक संविधान of वस्तुएँ within—structures कि correlate साथ दोनो कण और फ़ील्ड conceptions, interact according to सापेक्ष गुण of द्रव्यमान —and हैं fundamentally गणितीय in वर्णन.
These, or other axes, may be referenced to uniquely identify a point or structure in its attitude and relationship to अन्य वस्तुएँ और occurrences.
Physical theories that चरितार्थ समय, ऐसे as सामान्य आपेक्षिकता, हैं कहा to कार्य in 4-dimensional `` spacetime ``, ( defined as a Minkowski space ).
Modern theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' सहित क्वांटम field and string theories.
the state-space of quantum mechanics is an infinite-dimensional function space.
The अवधारणा of आयाम is नहीं प्रतिबंधित to शारीरिक objects.
High-dimensional spaces occur in mathematics and the sciences for many reasons, frequently as विन्यास स्पेसेस ऐसे as in लाग्रांजीय or हेमिल्टोनीय यांत्रिकी ; ये हैं अमूर्त स्पेसेस, स्वतंत्र of the physical space we live in.
Fontana ( ) is a city of 200,762 निवासियों in सैन bernardino काउंटी, California.
संस्थापित in 1913, it remained essentially ग्रामीण until World War II, when entrepreneur Henry J. Kaiser built a large steel mill in the area.
It is now a regional hub of the trucking industry, साथ अंतरराज्यीय 10 और राज्य रूट 210 transecting the नगर इससे ईस्ट to वेस्ट, और अंतरराज्यीय 15 गुजर diagonally through its northwestern quadrant.
It is home to the largest of the सैन bernardino काउंटी प्रणाली पुस्तकालयों, a संवर ऐतिहासिक theater, a municipal park, and the Auto Club Speedway on the site of the Kaiser Steel Mill.
Fontana also hosts the Fontana Days हाफ मैराथन और 5k चलाएं.
This race is the fastest half-marathon कोर्स in the संसार.
The U.S. 2012 Census reported कि fontana 's जनसांख्यिकी थी 200,762 in 2012, making it the second most populous city in San Bernardino county county and 14th in the state.
Cowboys Stadium is a stadium with a retractable छत in आर्लिंगटन, टेक्सास.
It serves as the घर of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल League 's Dallas Cowboys.
It replaced the partially covered Texas Stadium, which खोली in 1971, और परोसा as the cowboys ' home through the 2008 season.
It was completed on may 27, 2009.
The stadium seats 85,000, बनाना it the तीसरा largest स्टेडियम in the एनएफएल by seating capacity.
the अधिकतम क्षमता of the स्टेडियम, including standing room, is 105,000.
The Party Pass ( open areas ) sections are behind seats in प्रत्येक समाप्त मण्डल और on a श्रेणी of छह elevated प्लेटफ़ॉर्म कनेक्ट by stairways.
It has the world 's largest column-free आंतरिक और the चौथी largest ऊँची definition video screen, which hangs from 20 yard line to 20 yard line.
The facility can also be used for a variety of other activities outside of its main purpose ( professional football ) such as कॉन्सर्ट, बास्केट खेल, मुक्केबाज़ी मिलान, कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल और ऊँची स्कूल फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिताओं, सॉकर मिलान, और motocross races.
Canadian historians जबतक the 1980s tended to फ़ोकस on आर्थिक इतिहास, सहित labour history.
In part this is because Canada has had far fewer राजनैतिक or सैन्य विरोध than अन्य समाजों.
इस थी विशेषकर सच्चा in the पहला half of the twentieth century when economic history was overwhelmingly dominant.
Many of the most prominent अंग्रेज़ी कनाडाई इतिहासकारों इससे इस काल यहूद economic historians, such as Harold Innis, Donald Creighton and Arthur R. M. Lower
Scholars of Canadian history were heirs to the traditions that developed in Europe and the United राज्य, लकिन frameworks कि worked खूब elsewhere often failed in Canada.
The heavily Marxist बहकावे आर्थिक इतिहास कि dominates यूरोपीय रै little relevance to most of Canadian history.
A फ़ोकस on क्लास, शहरी क्षेत्रों, और उद्योग fails to address Canada 's rural and resource based economy.
similarly, the monetarist स्कूल कि is प्रबल in the United States also has been difficult to transfer north of the border.
The study of economic history in Canada became अत्यधिक केन्द्रित on आर्थिक भूगोल, और लिये अनेक सालो the प्रबल स्कूल of विचार has been the staples thesis.
इस स्कूल of विचार bases the पढ़ाई of the कनाडाई economy on the study of natural resources.
This approach has since also become used outside of कनाडा in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और in अनेक developing nations.
Before the आगमन of europeans, the पहला राष्ट्र of कया होता become Canada had a large and vibrant trade network.
Furs, tools, decorative items, and other goods were प्रायः transported हज़ारों of किलोमीटर, ज़्यादातर by canoe throughout the many rivers and lakes of the region.
The early European history of the Canadian economy is प्रायः पढ़ाई through the स्टेपल्स लेख जिससे argues the Canadian economy developed through the exploitation of a series of staples that would be exported to Europe.
Carbon-14, 14C, or radiocarbon, is a रेडियोसक्रिय समस्थानिक of कार्बन with a nucleus containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons.
Its presence in organic materials is the आधार of the radiocarbon डेटिंग विधि pioneered by willard लिब्बी और सहयोगियों ( 1949 ) to date archaeological, geological and hydrogeological samples.
Carbon-14 was discovered on 27 February 1940, by Martin Kamen and Sam Ruben at the University of कैलिफ़ोर्निया विकिरण प्रयोगशाला in बर्कली, हालांकि इसके अस्तित्व था महरूम सुझाया by Franz Kurie in 1934.
There are three naturally occurring isotopes of carbon on Earth : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12, 1 % is carbon-13, और carbon-14 occurs in ट्रेस amounts, i.e., बनाना up परिचय 1 भाग प्रति खरब ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the carbon in the atmosphere.
The half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 years.
Carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through बीटा decay.
The primary natural सोर्स of carbon-14 on धरती is लौकिक रे कार्रवाई upon नाइट्रोजन in the माहौल, and it is therefore a cosmogenic nuclide.
However, open-air nuclear testing between 1955–1980 contributed to इस पूल.
The different isotopes of कार्बन do नहीं differ appreciably in their chemical properties.
This is used in chemical and biological research, in a technique called carbon labeling : carbon-14 atoms can be used to replace nonradioactive कार्बन, in अनुक्रम to ट्रेस रासायनिक और biochemical प्रतिक्रियाएँ involving कार्बन अणु इससे कोई दिए सशुल्क यौगिक.
Lightning is a अत्यधिक दृश्य form of energy transfer
Lightning strikes are विद्युत discharges on a विशाल स्केल between the माहौल और an earth-bound object.
They mostly originate in thunderclouds और terminate on the मैदान, पुकारा Cloud to Ground ( CG ) lightning.
However, they may भी be initiated इससे a very tall grounded object and reach into the clouds.
हालांकि `` a बिजली स्ट्राइक '' is commonly प्रयुक्त to describe सब बिजली, it is बल्कि ग़लत और a misnomer, as तभी परिचय 25 % of सब बिजली कार्यक्रम विश्वव्यापी हैं cg, the विशाल बल्क of बिजली events are Intracloud ( IC ) or Cloud to Cloud ( CC ), where discharge only occurs high in the atmosphere.
The scientific name for the पूरा प्रक्रम of a सिंगल बिजली इवेंट is a और it is a बहुत जटिल, अनेक stepped interaction, which is not completely understood.
सबसे cg flashes तभी `` स्ट्राइक '' एक शारीरिक location, referred to as a termination.
The primary conducting channel, the उज्जवल coursing लाइट तुम may देखिए और कॉल a `` स्ट्राइक '', is तभी परिचय 1 इंच in व्यास, although to our eyes it looks much larger.
They are miles long, upwards of tens of miles.
And the entire फ्लैश, lasts तभी a few fractions of a second, most of which is not visible to human eyes.
थंडर is सदा उत्पादित by lightning.
Just like lightning, that deceives our eyes, usually looking larger or closer than it वाकई is, the धरती 's माहौल और हमारी दिमाग 's बोध of the बाहर संसार, ultimately determines whether it is `` heard '' or not.
Lightning can not happen in a vacuum devoid of ions, nor can थंडर occur बगैर अणुओं to vibrate.
Thunder is a physical निरपेक्ष लिये प्रत्येक single flash of lightning.
Contrary to popular belief, a बिजली स्ट्राइक itself is प्रायः नहीं जिम्मेदार लिये अनेक deaths or injuries from a single event.
It would be impossible दिए the प्राकृतिक tendencies of a फ्लैश, जबतक लोगों or पशु यहूद stacked on शीर्ष of प्रत्येक अन्य, or they were somehow arranged vertically and part of the flash channel.
When lightning ignites an उपलब्धियाँ ईंधन सोर्स और an विस्फोट occurs, it is the shock wave or fire causing the injuries, not the strike itself.
Ground Currents, भी पुकारा कदम संभावित, of an धरती termination is कया truly causes most injuries or death to humans and animals.
The near instantaneous rush of surface charges, induced by the ओवरहेड thundercloud itself, रेस to the स्ट्राइक point from hundreds to thousands of feet away during discharge.
This वर्तमान, caused दौरान प्रत्येक स्ट्रोक, takes the पाथ of तनिक प्रतिरोध, which may be ion rich human or animal legs, over poorly conducting earth.
This is why it is best to crouch, साथ फीट बंद साथ, if कभी caught in the खोलें दौरान a अंधड़.
Unfortunately, most reports do not draw a distinction between the real कारण of चोट or मौत, be it the स्ट्राइक itself, a resulting विस्फोट or आग, or usually responsible step potential.
Peter F. Kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is the वर्तमान attorney सामान्य of Rhode Island.
Kilmartin is also a retired police captain and a former सदस्य of the rhode द्वीप हाउस of प्रतिनिधि.
A couple following their विवाह in the manti यूटा टेम्पल.
sealing is an अध्यादेश ( अनुष्ठान ) performed in latter Day Saints temples by a person holding the sealing authority.
The purpose of इस अध्यादेश is to मुहर परिचित संबंध, बनाना संभावित the existence of family relationships throughout eternity.
LDS teachings place great महत्व on the विशिष्ट प्राधिकार जरूरी to perform these sealings.
Church doctrine teaches that this authority, called the priesthood, corresponds to कि दिए to संत पीटर in.
Sealings are typically performed as विवाह or as sealing of children to अभिभावक.
They were performed prior to the मौत of जोसेफ स्मिथ, jr. ( the प्रमुख संस्थापक of the latter Day Saint movement ), and are currently performed in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Although some other denominations, ऐसे as the जातियाँ of मसीह, दृश्य sealing as an centuries of स्मिथ 's अभ्यास of बहुवचन marriage, some do still perform them.
The 2000s, pronounced `` two thousands '', थी a दशक कि began on जनवरी 1, 2000, and ended on December 31, 2009.
Globalization, which had accelerated बाद the जल्दी 1990s पतन of साम्यवादी, जारी to be a force in the 2000s.
The growth of the अंतरजाल थी एक of the प्रधान योगदानकर्ता to वैश्वीकरण दौरान the दशक, बनाना it संभावित लिये लोगों to interact साथ अन्य लोगों, एक्स्प्रेस विचार, introduce अन्य to अलग संस्कृतियों और पृष्ठभूमि, उपयोग goods and services, sell and buy online, research and learn about things, along with experiencing the world without having to leave home.
The institutions, linkages and technologies that उभरा or यहूद redefined पहले होता subsequently in इस दशक लाभ many countries, in particular China and India.
However, in other भाग of the संसार ऐसे प्रगति विफल to पता जारी struggles साथ आधुनिकता, most notably characterized by the rise of al-Qaeda and other Islamist groups.
The September 11 attacks in 2001 led to the United States, United Kingdom, Spain, Canada और अन्य राष्ट्र आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान, as खूब as implementing विभिन्न anti-terrorist measures at home and abroad in what was known as the War on Terror.
The European Union saw further संयोजन और विस्तार throughout much of Europe.
The economic growth of the 2000s had considerable environmental consequences, उठाया माँग लिये घटाते उर्जा संसाधन, और थी स्टिल दिखाया to be vulnerable as demonstrated during the Global Financial Crisis of the late 2000s.
The Gunfight at the O.K. Corral was a gunfight that took प्लेस at परिचय 3:00 p.m. on बुधवार, अक्तूबर 26, 1881, in tombstone, एरिज़ोना territory, और is generally regarded as the most famous gunfight in the history of the American Old West.
The gunfight, believed to have lasted तभी परिचय तीस सेकेंड, थी लड़ा between the गैरकानूनी cowboys बिली claiborne, Ike and Billy Clanton, and Tom and Frank McLaury, and the opposing town Marshal Virgil Earp and his brothers Assistant Town Marshal Morgan and temporary lawman Wyatt, aided by Doc Holliday designated as a temporary marshal by Virgil.
Ike Clanton and Billy Claiborne ran इससे the लड़ो unharmed, लकिन आइक 's bhai बिली clanton was killed, along with both McLaurys.
Lawmen Virgil और मॉर्गन earp और दस्तावेज़ हॉलिडे यहूद wounded.
Only Wyatt Earp आए through the लड़ो unharmed.
The fight has come to represent a time in American history when the frontier was open range for outlaws opposed by विधि प्रवर्तन कि थी स्प्रेड पतला over विशाल territories, leaving कुछ क्षेत्रों unprotected.
The gunfight was not well known to the American public until 1931 when author Stuart Lake published what has चूंकि महरूम संकल्पित to be a largely fictionalized जीवनी, व्याट earp : frontier मार्शल, two years after Earp 's death.
Lake retold उसके स्टोरी in a 1946 किताब कि निदेशक जॉन Ford developed into the movie My Darling Clementine.
After the movie Gunfight at the O.K. Corral was released in 1957, the गोलीबारी आए to be ज्ञात by that name.
Since तब, the विरोध रै महरूम portrayed साथ varying degrees of accuracy in numerous Western films and books.
Despite its name, the gunfight actually occurred in a सीमित लॉट छह द्वार वेस्ट of the पश्च प्रवेश to the o.k. corral on fremont गली, और also in the street.
The two opposing पार्टियों यहूद initially तभी about apart.
About तीस गोलियाँ यहूद fired in thirty seconds.
Ike Clanton filed murder charges against the Earps and Doc Holliday but they यहूद आखिरकार exonerated by a लोकल न्यायधीश बाद a 30-day प्रारंभिक hearing and then again by a local grand jury.
on दिसम्बर 28, 1881, वर्जिल earp थी maimed in an हत्या attempt by the outlaw Cowboys, and on March 18, 1882, they assassinated Morgan Earp.
The suspects furnished solid alibis, and newly appointed Deputy U.S. Marshal Wyatt Earp took matters into his own हैंड्स दौरान the earp वेंडेट्टा सवारी, ironically धड़ा by काउंटी शेरिफ जॉनी behan साथ वारंट for the Earp 's arrest.
HDMI ( high-definition मल्टीमीडिया इंटरफ़ेस ) is a कॉम्पैक्ट audio/video इंटरफ़ेस लिये transferring uncompressed वीडियो आंकड़ा और compressed/uncompressed डिजिटल ऑडियो आंकड़ा इससे a hdmi-compliant यंत्र ( `` the सोर्स यंत्र '' ) to a संगत computer monitor, video projector, digital television, or digital audio device.
HDMI is a digital replacement for मौजूदा एनालॉग वीडियो मानकों.
There are a क्रमांक of hdmi-standard केबल कनेक्टर्स उपलब्धियाँ, प्रत्येक of जिससे can be प्रयुक्त लिये कोई uncompressed tv or pc वीडियो स्वरूप, सहित मानक, उन्नत, ऊँची परिभाषा, और 3D video signals ; up to 8 channels of compressed or uncompressed digital audio ; a CEC ( Consumer Electronics Control ) connection ; and an Ethernet data connection.
HDMI implements the eia/cea-861 मानकों, जिससे define वीडियो स्वरुप और waveforms, हस्तांतरण of compressed, uncompressed, and LPCM audio, auxiliary data, and implementations of the VESA EDID.
The cec allows hdmi डिवाइस to कंट्रोल प्रत्येक अन्य जब necessary and allows the user to operate multiple devices with one remote control handset.
Because HDMI is electrically संगत साथ the cea-861 सिग्नल प्रयुक्त by डिजिटल विज़ुअल इंटरफ़ेस ( dvi ), no सिग्नल परिवर्तन is जरुरी, nor is वहीँ a घाटा of video quality when a DVI-to-HDMI adapter is used.
As an uncompressed cea-861 कनेक्शन, hdmi is स्वतंत्र of the विभिन्न डिजिटल टेलीविज़न मानकों प्रयुक्त by व्यक्तिगत डिवाइस, ऐसे as atsc और dvb, as these are encapsulations of compressed MPEG video streams ( which can be decoded and output as an uncompressed video stream on HDMI ).
Production of consumer hdmi उत्पाद प्रारंभ in लेट 2003.
In Europe either dvi-hdcp or hdmi is शामिल in the hd ready in-store labeling specification for TV sets for HDTV, formulated by EICTA with SES Astra in 2005.
HDMI began to appear on उपभोक्ता hdtv camcorders and digital still cameras in 2006.
As of January 8, 2013, which is टेन सालो बाद the रिलीज of the पहला hdmi specification, over 3 billion HDMI devices have shipped since the launch of the HDMI standard.
Bree Van de Kamp ( née Mason ; also known in the series as Bree Hodge and ब्री वेस्टन ) is a fictional अक्षर और एक of the चार protagonists on the एबीसी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी हताश Housewives.
She is played by actress Marcia Cross, who has received multiple awards and nominations लिये उसके portrayal, सहित an एमी पुरस्कार नामांकन, तीन सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार nominations, और two Screen Actors Guild Awards.
Cross 's portrayal of ब्री रै महरूम widely praised by critics and fans.
Cross originally auditioned for the role of Mary Alice Young, but series creator Marc चेरी विचार वो थी बेहतर suited लिये the भूमिका of Bree.
Dana Delany, who eventually was cast as Katherine Mayfair, was originally चुनी लिये the भूमिका लकिन turned it bas, saying it was too similar to her role in Pasadena.
Bree 's main struggle throughout the series has been her attempts to maintain a perfect जीवन despite विभिन्न बाधाएं ऐसे as widowhood, तलाक, और alcoholism hindering उसके.
She has been married three times ; to रेक्स वैन de kamp ( स्टीवन culp ), orson होज ( Kyle MacLachlan ) and Trip Weston ( Scott Bakula ).
See भी the कस्बा of Algoma in Winnebago County, Wisconsin.
See also algoma ( बहुविकल्पी ).
Algoma is a नगर in kewaunee काउंटी in the U.S. state of Wisconsin.
The population was 3,167 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Algoma is भाग of the ग्रीन खाड़ी महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल.
The Hangover Part II is a 2011 American कॉमेडी फिल्मी उत्पादित by legendary तस्वीरें और वितरित by Warner Bros. Pictures.
It is the sequel to 2009 's the hangover और the दूसरी फिल्मी in The Hangover franchise.
Todd Phillips directed the film in addition to co-authoring the स्क्रिप्ट साथ क्रेग mazin, and Scot Armstrong.
The फिल्मी सितारों ब्राडली कूपर, ed helms, zach galifianakis, केन jeong, जेफरी Tambor, Justin Bartha and Paul Giamatti.
the hangover भाग ii tells the स्टोरी of फिल, stu, एलन, and Doug as they travel to Thailand for Stu 's wedding.
After the bachelor party in Las Vegas, Stu takes no chances and opts for a सुरक्षित, subdued pre-wedding brunch.
However, things do नहीं go as नियोजित, resulting in another ख़राब hangover with no memories of the previous night.
Development of The Hangover Part II began in अप्रैल 2009, दो महीने पहले the hangover was released.
The principal अभिनेताओं यहूद डाल in कूच 2010 to reprise their roles from the first film.
Production began in अक्तूबर 2010, in ओंटारियो, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, पहले moving on location in Thailand.
The film was released on May 26, 2011 और, despite receiving ज़्यादातर ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, it became the highest-grossing R-rated comedy during its theatrical run.
A third film is नियत लिये on may 24, 2013.
Young Man Among Roses, पोर्ट्रेट miniature by निकोलस hilliard, 1588, V & A.
Believed to be the अर्ल of Essex
The ditchley पोर्ट्रेट of एलिज़ाबेथ i by the विदेशी मार्कस Gheeraerts the Younger, c.1592
The English Renaissance was a cultural and artistic movement in England dating from the लेट 15th और जल्दी 16th सदियां to the जल्दी 17th सदी.
It is associated with the pan-European Renaissance कि is प्रायः regarded as शुरूआत in इटली in the late 14th century.
Like सबसे of उत्तरी यूरोपीय, इंग्लैण्ड देखी छोटी of these developments until more than a century later.
The beginning of the English Renaissance is often taken, as a convenience, to be 1485, जब the बैटल of bosworth फ़ील्ड ended the युद्धों of the गुलाब और उदघाटन the Tudor Dynasty.
Renaissance style and ideas, however, यहूद slow in penetrating इंग्लैण्ड, और the elizabethan era in the दूसरी half of the 16th century is usually regarded as the height of the English Renaissance.
Elizabeth Ann Bloomer Warren `` Betty '' Ford ( अप्रैल 8, 1918 – जुलाई 8, 2011 ), थी पहला महिला of the संयुक्त States from 1974 to 1977 during the presidency of her husband Gerald Ford.
As First Lady, she was active in social policy and निर्मित precedents as a नीतियां क्रियाशील अध्यक्षीय wife.
Throughout her husband 's term in office, she maintained high approval ratings despite विपक्ष इससे कुछ रूढ़िवादी republicans जो objected to उसके अधिक मॉडरेट और उदार स्थितियाँ on सोशल issues.
Ford was noted for raising breast cancer जागरूकता following उसके 1974 mastectomy और थी a passionate समर्थक of, और activist for, the Equal Rights Amendment ( ERA ).
Pro-choice on abortion and a leader in the Women 's गति, वो gained कीर्ति as एक of the सबसे निष्कपट पहला महिलाओं in इतिहास, commenting on प्रत्येक hot-button समस्या of the समय, सहित feminism, equal pay, the ERA, sex, drugs, abortion, and gun control.
She also raised awareness of व्यसन जब वो घोषित उसके long-running battle with alcoholism in the 1970s.
Following her White House years, she जारी to लॉबी लिये the era और remained क्रियाशील in the feminist movement.
She was the founder, and served as the first chair of the board of directors, of the Betty Ford Center for पदार्थ गाली और व्यसन और is a प्राप्तकर्ता of the congressional सुनहरा पदक ( co-presentation साथ उसके husband, जेराल्ड R. घाट, अक्तूबर 21, 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom ( alone, presented 1991, by George H. W. Bush ).
platelet endothelial कोशिका adhesion अणु ( pecam-1 ) भी ज्ञात as क्लस्टर of differentiation 31 ( CD31 ) is a protein that in human is encoded by the PECAM1 gene found on chromosome 17.
PECAM-1 plays a कुंजी भूमिका in removing aged neutrophils from the body.
जेसिका rafalowski, मिस Florida USA 2008
जेन्ना एडवर्ड्स, Miss Florida USA 2007
Melissa witek, मिस फ्लोरिडा यूएसए 2005
क्रिस्टन berset, मिस Florida USA 2004
The Miss Florida USA competition is the pageant that selects the प्रतिनिधि लिये the राज्य फ्लोरिडा in the मिस यूएसए pageant.
While Florida has been successful in terms of runners-up, finalists और semi-finalists, the राज्य रै never won the Miss USA pageant, although Cheryl Patton became Miss USA after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss Universe.
Florida 's best results were during the mid-1960s to mid-1970s.
Their most recent finalist was lissette गार्सिया जो लगाई in the शीर्ष 16 in 2011.
Two former Miss Florida Teen USA titleholders have won this प्रतियोगिता, और तीन titleholders have भी competed at Miss America.
The वर्तमान titleholder is मिशेल Aguirre of Hialeah.
Anglo-Saxon England refers to the काल of the इतिहास of the भाग of ब्रिटेन कि became ज्ञात as इंग्लैण्ड, स्थायी इससे the समाप्त of रोमन occupation and establishment of Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in the 5th century until the Norman conquest of England in 1066 by William the Conqueror.
Anglo-Saxon is a general term referring to the Germanic peoples जो आए to ब्रिटेन दौरान the 5th और 6th सदियां, including Angles, Saxons, Frisii, and Jutes.
The term also refers to the language spoken at the time in England, which is अभी पुकारा बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी, और to the संस्कृति of the era, जिससे रै long आकर्षित लोकप्रिय और scholarly ध्यान.
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England was dominated by the Heptarchy, the kingdoms of नॉर्थम्ब्रिया, mercia, ईस्ट anglia, एसेक्स, केंट, ससेक्स, and Wessex.
In terms of religion the kingdoms followed Anglo-Saxon paganism दौरान the जल्दी काल, लकिन परिवर्तित to christianity during the 7th century.
Paganism had a final stronghold in a period of mercian आधिपत्य दौरान the 640s, ending with the death of Penda of Mercia in 655.
Facing the threat of Viking invasions, the House of Wessex became dominant दौरान the 9th सदी, अंतर्गत the नियम of अल्फ्रेड the Great.
During the 10th century, the individual kingdoms एकीकृत अंतर्गत the नियम of wessex into the किंगडम of इंग्लैण्ड, जिससे stood opposed to the Danelaw, the Viking kingdoms established from the 9th century in the north and east of England.
The Kingdom of England fell in the Viking invasion from Denmark in 1013 और थी शासित by the हाउस of डेनमार्क जबतक 1042, जब the Anglo-Saxon House of Wessex was restored.
The last Anglo-Saxon king, Harold godwinson, थी मारे in 1066 at the बैटल of Hastings.
Lighting a traditional red ईंटों जॉन रॉस Jr kiln
Smoked salmon is a preparation of सामन, typically a fillet कि रै महरूम cured and hot or cold smoked.
Due to its moderately high price, smoked सामन is माना a delicacy.
Although the term lox is sometimes applied to स्मोक्ड सामन, वे हैं अलग उत्पाद.
View of defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड स्थिति और placement.
defibrillation is a आम उपचार लिये life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias, ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia.
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic खुराक of विद्युत उर्जा to the प्रभावित दिल साथ a यंत्र called a defibrillator.
This depolarizes a नाजुक द्रव्यमान of the दिल मांसपेशी, terminates the dysrhythmia, और allows सामान्य sinus लय to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker, in the sinoatrial node of the heart.
Defibrillators can be external, transvenous, or implanted, depending on the प्रकार of यंत्र प्रयुक्त or needed.
Some external units, known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ), automate the diagnosis of treatable लय, अर्थ कि lay responders or bystanders हैं समर्थ to उपयोग उन्हें सफलतापूर्वक with little, or in some cases no training at all.
Gabrielle `` Coco '' Bonheur Chanel ( August 19, 1883 – January 10, 1971 ) was a फ्रेंच फ़ैशन पंक्तियां और संस्थापक of the चैनल ब्रांड.
She was the only फ़ैशन पंक्तियां to appear on समय पत्रिका 's सूची of the 100 सबसे influential people of the 20th century.
Along with Paul Poiret, Chanel थी credited साथ liberating महिलाओं इससे the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' और popularizing the स्वीकृति of a sportive, casual chic as the feminine standard in the post- World War I era.
A सफल फ़ैशन निर्माता, चैनल 's influence extended beyond couture clothing.
Her design aesthetic was realized in आभूषण, हैंडबैग, और महक.
Her हस्ताक्षर सैंट, चैनल no. 5, has become an iconic product.
Chanel was known for her lifelong determination, महत्वाकांक्षा और उर्जा जिससे वो लागू to her professional and social life.
She achieved both कामयाबी as a businesswoman और सोशल prominence धन्यवाद to the connections she made through her work.
These included अनेक कलाकारों और craftspeople to whom she became a patron.
However, Chanel 's highly competitive, opportunistic personality led her to make questionable जीवन चुनाव जिससे have उत्पन्न विवाद around उसके प्रतिष्ठा, विशेषकर उसके आचरण दौरान the जर्मनी occupation of France in World War II.
Allied Mills आटा मिल on the बैंको of the Manchester Ship Canal
A gristmill ( भी : grist मिल, मकई मिल or आटा मिल ) grinds grain into flour.
The term can refer to दोनो the पीस यांत्रिकी और the building that holds it.
Romania ( ; dated spellings Roumania और rumania ; ) is a देश स्तिथ at the चौराहे of Central and Southeastern Europe, bordering on the Black Sea.
Romania shares a border with Hungary and Serbia to the west, युक्त और moldova to the पूर्वोत्तर और ईस्ट, और बुल्गारिया to the south.
At, Romania is the आठवीं largest देश of the यूरोपीय संघ by area, and has the seventh largest population of the European Union with more than 19 million people.
Its capital and biggest city is बुखारेस्ट, the 11th largest नगर in the EU.
The United Principalities emerged when the territories of moldavia और wallachia यहूद संयुक्त अंतर्गत Prince Alexander Ioan Cuza in 1859.
In 1866 Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was called to the सिंहासन as the सत्ताधारी प्रिंस of the रोमानियाई principate और in 1881 he थी आखिरकार पहनाया as किंग कैरोल i the first monarch of the Kingdom of Romania.
Independence from the उस्मानी साम्राज्य थी घोषित on 9 may 1877, and was internationally recognized the following year.
At the end of World War I, transylvania, bukovina और Bessarabia united with the Kingdom of Romania.
World War II gave cause to the rise of a military तानाशाही in रोमानिया अंतर्गत फासिस्ट सामान्य आयन antonescu, जो chose to लड़ो on the side of the Axis powers from 1941 to 1944.
बाद उसके हटाना, रोमानिया switched पहलू in 1944 and joined the Allies.
By the end of the war, some formerly Romanian northeastern territories were occupied by the सोवियत संघ, साथ रेड फौज इकाई stationed on रोमानियाई soil.
In 1947 रोमानिया forcibly became a लोगों 's गणतंत्र ( 1947-1965 ) and a member of the Warsaw Pact.
In 1965 Nicolae Ceauşescu became General Secretary of the Romanian Communist पार्टी, और the हर्ष austerity उपायों, राजनैतिक दमन, और cult of व्यक्तित्व he implemented led to the समाजवादी गणतंत्र of रोमानिया ( 1965-1989 ) बनने the सबसे Stalinist police state in the Eastern bloc.
Eventually his authoritarian सरकारी थी toppled in दिसम्बर 1989 दौरान the रोमानियाई क्रान्ति of 1989.
With the fall of the Iron Curtain, Romania began इसके परिवर्तन towards लोकतंत्र और a पूंजीवादी market economy.
After a decade of post-revolution economic problems and living-standards मनाही, extensive reforms fostered आर्थिक रिकवरी.
As of 2010, रोमानिया is an upper-middle-income country with a high human development index.
Romania joined NATO on 29 कूच 2004, और the यूरोपीय संघ on 1 जनवरी 2007.
It is also a member of the : लैटिन संघ, francophonie, osce, WTO, BSEC, United Nations, etc.
Today, Romania is a एकात्मक semi-presidential गणतंत्र, in जिससे the कार्यपालिका शाखा consists of the President and the Government.
`` Ancient '' redirects यहाँ.
For other uses, देखिए प्राचीनता ( बहुविकल्पी ).
The times before writing belong either to protohistory or to prehistory.
khafre 's पिरामिड ( 4th राजवंश ) और ग्रेट sphinx of Giza ( c. 2500 BC or perhaps earlier )
Ancient history is the study of the written पास्ट इससे the शुरूआत of अंकित इंसान इतिहास to the Early Middle Ages.
The span of recorded history is roughly 5,000 years, with Cuneiform script, the oldest खोजा रूप of सुसंगत लिखने, इससे the protoliterate काल around the 30th सदी BC.
This is the beginning of history, as opposed to प्रागितिहास, according to the परिभाषा प्रयुक्त by सबसे historians.
The term classical antiquity is often used to refer to history in the बूढ़ा संसार इससे the शुरूआत of अंकित यूनानी इतिहास in 776 BC ( First Olympiad ).
This roughly coincides with the traditional date of the founding of रोम in 753 bc, the शुरूआत of the इतिहास of प्राचीन रोम, और the beginning of the Archaic period in Ancient Greece.
Although the ending date of प्राचीन इतिहास is विवादित, कुछ पश्चिमी विद्वानों उपयोग the पतन of the पश्चिमी रोमन साम्राज्य in 476 ad, the closure of the platonic अकादमी in 529 ad, the death of the emperor Justinian I, the coming of Islam or the rise of Charlemagne as the end of ancient and Classical European history.
In India, the काल शामिल the जल्दी काल of the मध्य kingdoms, और, in चीन, the time up to the Qin Dynasty is included.
Methylcobalamin ( दिखाया ) is a रूप of विटामिन B12.
Physically it resembles the other forms of विटामिन b12, occurring as अंधेरा रेड crystals कि freely रूप cherry-colored transparent solutions in water.
Vitamin B12, vitamin B12 or विटामिन b-12, भी पुकारा cobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin with a key role in the normal functioning of the brain and nervous system, and for the formation of blood.
it is एक of the eight B vitamins.
It is normally involved in the metabolism of प्रत्येक कोशिका of the इंसान देह, विशेषकर affecting डीएनए संश्लेषण और विनियमन, लकिन भी fatty acid synthesis and energy production.
Neither fungi, plants, nor पशु हैं सक्षम of producing vitamin B12.
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required for its synthesis, हालांकि अनेक भोजन हैं a प्राकृतिक सोर्स of b12 क्युकी of बैक्टीरियल symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally जटिल विटामिन और can be उत्पादित industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a क्लास of chemically सम्बन्धित यौगिकों ( vitamers ), all of which have vitamin activity.
It contains the biochemically विरल तत्व कोबाल्ट.
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( जिससे प्रायः उपज hydroxocobalamin ), लकिन परिवर्तन between अलग फ़ॉर्म of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body.
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin, cyanocobalamin, does not occur in nature, but is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin और तब प्रयुक्त in अनेक दवाएँ और पूरक, और as a खाना योगात्मक, क्युकी of इसके स्थिरता and lower production cost.
In the body it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin, leaving behind the साइनाइड, albeit in minimal विशेषज्ञता.
More recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, और adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological products and food supplements.
The अतिरिक्त यूटिलिटी of ये is फिलहाल debated.
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the disease pernicious रक्ताल्पता, जिससे is an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in जिससे parietal कोशिकाएं of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed.
Intrinsic फ़ैक्टर is निर्णायक लिये the सामान्य अवशोषण of b12, so a कमी of मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर, as seen in pernicious anemia, causes a vitamin B12 deficiency.
Many other subtler kinds of विटामिन b12 कमियां and their biochemical effects have since been elucidated.
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient रोमन सभ्यता, characterised by an निरंकुश रूप of सरकारी और विशाल territorial holdings around the भूमध्यसागरीय in यूरोपीय, Africa, and Asia.
The 500-year-old रोमन गणतंत्र, जिससे preceded it, था महरूम destabilized through a series of civil wars.
Several events marked the परिवर्तन इससे गणतंत्र to साम्राज्य, सहित जूलियस सीज़र 's नियुक्ति as perpetual तानाशाह ( 44 bc ) ; the बैटल of actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ).
The first two centuries of the Empire were a काल of unprecedented स्थिरता और समृद्धि ज्ञात as the pax romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ).
It reached its greatest expanse दौरान the शासनकाल of त्राजान ( 98–117 AD ).
In the 3rd century, the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened इसके अस्तित्व, लकिन थी reunified और stabilized अंतर्गत the emperors aurelian and Diocletian.
ईसाइयों रोज़ to शक्ति in the 4th सदी, during which time a system of dual rule was developed in the Latin West and Greek East.
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th सदी, the पूर्वी हाफ जारी as कया होता बाद be ज्ञात as the Byzantine Empire.
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance, the संस्थानों और संस्कृति of रोम था a profound और स्थायी influence on the विकास of भाषा, धर्म, वास्तुकला, दर्शनशास्त्र, विधि, और फ़ॉर्म of सरकारी in the territory it governed, particularly Europe, and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world.
Total body surface area ( TBSA ) is an मूल्यांकन माप of burns of the skin.
In adults, the `` rule of nines '' is used to determine the कुल प्रतिशत of क्षेत्रफल burned लिये प्रत्येक प्रमुख section of the body.
in कुछ मामले, the burns may कवर अधिक than एक देह भाग, or may नहीं fully cover such a part ; in these cases, burns are measured by using the casualty 's palm as a reference point for 1 % of the body.
For children और infants, the lund-browder चार्ट is प्रयुक्त to assess the burned body surface area.
अलग percentages हैं प्रयुक्त क्युकी the अनुपात of the संयुक्त सतह क्षेत्रफल of the सिर और गर्दन to the surface area of the limbs is typically larger in children than that of an adult.
Typical मान लिये आम समूह of humans follow.
( due to rounding, values may not add to 100 %. )
World infant mortality दरों by पाँच सालो averages in 2008.
इस is a सूची of देशों by infant mortality rate.
Jonah Kirsten Sorrentino ( born June 26, 1975 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम kj-52, is a ईसाई rapper from Tampa, Florida.
The `` KJ '' part of उसके नाम refers to उसके बूढ़ा रैप alias, `` किंग J. Mac, '' a name which he later described in one of his podcasts as `` horribly cheesy. ''
`` 52 '', which is pronounced `` five two '', not `` fifty-two '', is a reference to the Biblical story of Jesus feeding the multitude साथ पाँच loaves और दो मछली, जिससे is भी सुंग परिचय in उसके सोंग `` धक्का up '' इससे The Yearbook and in the `` KJ Five Two '' on It 's Pronounced 'Five Two.
He was awarded the rap/hip हॉप अंकित सोंग of the साल लिये `` never dekh दूर '' and Rap/Hip Hop Album of the Year at the GMA Dove Awards of 2007.
On July 28, 2009, KJ-52 released `` End of My Rope '', जिससे is the पहला सिंगल लिये his album Five-Two Television.
His सोंग `` डिअर पतला '' is आधारित on एमिनेम 's सोंग `` Stan `` and is a sort of personal message from KJ-52 to Eminem.
The उपाधि प्रतीक ( ° ) is a typographical प्रतीक कि is प्रयुक्त, among अन्य बाते, to represent डिग्री of चाप ( e.g. in geographic coordinate systems ), hours ( in the medical field ), or degrees of temperature.
The symbol consists of a small उठाया वृत्त, historically a zero glyph.
In युनिकोड it is एनकोडेड at.
This is a list of roots, suffixes, and prefixes प्रयुक्त in चिकित्सा शब्दावली, उनके meanings, and their etymology.
There are a few नियम जब using medical roots.
Firstly, prefixes और प्रत्यय, primarily in यूनानी, but also in Latin, have a droppable -o-.
As a general rule, this -o- almost always acts as a joint-stem to कनेक्ट दो consonantal जड़ें, e.g. arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology.
But generally, the -o- is dropped जब connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g. arthr- + itis = arthritis, instead of arthr-o-itis.
Secondly, medical roots generally go together according to भाषा : यूनानी prefixes go साथ यूनानी suffixes and Latin prefixes with Latin suffixes.
Although international वैज्ञानिक शब्दावली is नहीं कठोर परिचय segregating combining फ़ॉर्म of अलग languages, it is advisable when coining new words not to mix different lingual roots.
Stomach कर्कट, or gastric कर्कट, refers to cancer arising from any part of the stomach.
पेट कर्कट कल्याणकारी परिचय 800,000 deaths worldwide per year.
Prognosis is poor ( 5-year survival < 5 to 15 % ) क्युकी सबसे मरीजों उपस्थित साथ उन्नत बीमारी.
सारा lynn इवांस ( born फ़रवरी 5, 1971 ) is an American country singer and songwriter.
For her संपूर्ण करियर, वो रै महरूम हस्ताक्षरित to आरसीए रिकॉर्ड Nashville.
Evans ' डेब्यू, तीन मदारी और the सच्चाई, किया नहीं उपज a Top 40 hit on the Hot Country Songs charts.
She followed this up with No प्लेस कि दूर ( 1998 ), born to मक्खी ( 2000 ), बेचैन ( 2003 ) and Real Fine Place ( 2005 ).
No Place That Far received a gold प्रमाणन इससे the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of America ( RIAA ), while the other three albums all were certified platinum.
These discs include the number 1 singles `` no प्लेस कि दूर ``, `` born to मक्खी ``, `` suds in the बाल्टी `` और `` a रियल ठीक प्लेस to प्रारंभ ``, प्लस the शीर्ष 10 हिट्स `` I Could Not Ask for More `` ( a cover of the Edwin McCain song ), `` I Keep Looking ``, `` Perfect `` and `` Cheatin ' ``.
Her 2007 Greatest Hits शामिल the शीर्ष 15 हिट्स `` तुम 'll सदा be My Baby `` and `` As If ``.
stronger ( 2011 ) शामिल उसके पांचवां क्रमांक 1 hit, `` A Little Bit Stronger ``, which was co-written by Hillary Scott of Lady Antebellum.
Evans has also won one award each from बिलबोर्ड, the अकादमी of देश म्यूज़िक, देश म्यूज़िक संघ, ब्रॉडकास्ट Music Incorporated ( BMI ) and a Dove Award.
The world 's principal religions और आध्यात्मिक परंपराओं may be वर्गीकृत into a छोटी क्रमांक of प्रमुख समूह, although this is by no means a uniform practice.
This theory began in the 18th century with the goal of recognizing the सापेक्ष स्तर of civility in समाजों.
berliners watching a c-54 जमीन at Tempelhof Airport ( 1948 )
The Berlin blockade ( 24 June 1948 – 12 May 1949 ) was one of the पहला प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय crises of the ठंडा युद्ध.
During the बहुराष्ट्रीय occupation of post–world युद्ध ii जर्मनी, the सोवियत संघ blocked the Western Allies ' railway, road, and canal access to the sectors of Berlin under Allied control.
Their aim was to force the पश्चिमी शक्तियां to allow the सोवियत मण्डल to प्रारंभ supplying बर्लिन साथ खाना और ईंधन, thereby giving the Soviets practical control over the entire city.
In response, the Western Allies organized the Berlin airlift to carry आपूर्तियाँ to the लोगों in वेस्ट Berlin.
Aircrews from the United States Air Force, the British Royal Air Force, the Royal ऑस्ट्रेलियाई एयर फ़ोर्स, the royal कनाडाई एयर फ़ोर्स, the royal नई जीलैंड एयर फ़ोर्स, और the दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी एयर फ़ोर्स उड़ाया over 200,000 flights in one year, providing up to 4700 tons of daily necessities such as fuel and food to the Berliners.
By the spring of 1949, the effort was clearly succeeding and, by April, the एयरलिफ्ट थी delivering अधिक कार्गो than था previously महरूम transported into the नगर by rail.
The success of the Berlin Airlift brought शर्मिंदगी to the soviets who had refused to believe it could make a difference.
The blockade was lifted in May 1949 and resulted in the सृष्टि of दो पृथक जर्मनी राज्य.
The संघीय गणतंत्र of जर्मनी ( वेस्ट जर्मनी ) and the German Democratic Republic ( East Germany ) split up Berlin.
In remembrance of the एयरलिफ्ट, तीन एयरपोर्ट in the पूर्व पश्चिमी zones of the city served as the primary gateways to Germany for another fifty years.
The यूरोपियन चिह्न ; logotype and handwritten.
The euro sign is the currency sign used लिये the यूरोपियन, the आधिकारिक करेंसी of the Eurozone in the European Union ( EU ).
The design was presented to the पब्लिक by the यूरोपीय आयोग on 12 December 1996.
The international three-letter code ( according to आईएसओ मानक आईएसओ 4217 ) लिये the euro is EUR.
In Unicode it is एनकोडेड at.
In English, the sign precedes the मान.
in कुछ styleguides, लकिन नहीं अन्य, the euro sign is unspaced.
Mate (, ; sometimes also spelled maté ), also known as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ), is a परंपरागत दक्षिण अमरीकी infused पेय, विशेषकर in अर्जेंटीना, उरुग्वे, पैराग्वे and the southern states of Brazil and to a lesser degree in south of Chile, the Bolivian Chaco, Syria and Lebanon.
It is prepared from steeping सूखी पत्ते of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis, known in Portuguese as erva-mate ) in hot water.
Mate is served with a metal straw from a साझा खोखला calabash करेले.
The स्ट्रॉ is पुकारा a bombilla in कुछ Latin American countries, a bomba in Portuguese, and a bombija or, more generally, a masassa ( type of straw ) in Arabic.
The straw is traditionally बना of silver.
Modern, commercially available लोभी हैं typically बना of निकल चांदी, पुकारा alpaca ; बेदाग steel, or hollow-stemmed cane.
The gourd is known as a mate or a guampa ; while in Brazil, it has the specific नाम of cuia, or भी cabaça ( the नाम लिये indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in अन्य regions of Brazil, still used for general food and drink in remote regions ).
Even if the water is supplied इससे a आधुनिक thermos, the infusion is traditionally drunk from mates or cuias.
As with other brewed herbs, yerba mate पत्ते हैं सूखी, कटा, और मैदान into a powdery mixture called yerba.
The bombilla अधिनियमों as दोनो a स्ट्रॉ and a sieve.
The submerged end is flared, with छोटी छेद or स्लॉट कि allow the brewed द्रव in, but block the chunky matter that makes up much of the mixture.
a आधुनिक bombilla डिज़ाइन उपयोग a straight tube with holes, or spring sleeve to act as a sieve.
`` tea-bag '' प्रकार infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have महरूम on the मार्केट in अर्जेंटीना, पैराग्वे and Uruguay for many years under such trade names as `` Taragüí Vitality '' in Argentina, `` Pajarito '' and `` Kurupí '' in Paraguay, and in Brazil under the name `` Mate Leão ''.
This is considered a completely अलग drink.
It is never नशे इससे cuias or पुकारा chimarrão, nor is it associated with the gaucho/gaúcho culture.
The automotive industry is a term that covers a wide दायरा of कंपनियाँ और संगठनों शामिल in the डिज़ाइन, विकास, manufacture, विपणन, and selling of motor vehicles, towed vehicles, motorcycles and mopeds.
It is one of the संसार 's सबसे महत्वपूर्ण economic sectors by revenue.
The term automotive industry usually does not include industries समर्पित to the मेंटेनेंस of ऑटोमोबाइल following डिलीवरी to the end-user, ऐसे as मरम्मत दुकानें और motor fuel filling stations.
The term automotive was created from Greek autos ( self ), and Latin motivus ( of गति ) to represent कोई रूप of self-powered गाडी.
This term was प्रस्तावित by sae सदस्य एल्मर स्पेरी.
David माइकल `` डेव '' bautista, jr. ( born जनवरी 18, 1969 ), is an अमरीकी मिश्रित martial कलाकार, bodybuilder, कर्ता, and former professional wrestler best known for his time in World Wrestling Entertainment competing under the ring name Batista.
In WWE, he became a six-time world चैंपियन, जीतना the संसार हेवीवेट चैंपियनशिप चार times, and the WWE Championship two times.
He is the longest-reigning संसार हेवीवेट Champion in WWE history.
In addition to these championships, Batista has जीती the संसार टैग टोली चैंपियनशिप तीन टाइम्स ( twice साथ ric फ्लेयर and once with John Cena ) and the WWE Tag Team Championship once ( with Rey Mysterio ).
Batista was also the winner of the 2005 Royal Rumble match and went on to शीर्षक रेसलमेनिया 21, एक of the शीर्ष पाँच highest-grossing pay-per-view events in pro wrestling history.
After trying out at World Championship Wrestling 's Power Plant, बतिस्ता हस्ताक्षरित a अनुबंध साथ the wwf in 2000 और थी भेजा to इसके developmental territory, Ohio Valley Wrestling ( OVW ), where he won the OVW Heavyweight Championship.
In August 2012, Bautista signed a contract with क्लासिक entertainment & खेल to लड़ो in मिश्रित martial arts.
He won उसके mma डेब्यू on अक्तूबर 6, 2012, defeating Vince Lucero via TKO in the first round.
Henry T. Thomas Sampson, jr. ( born in जैक्सन, मिसिसिपी in 1934 ) is an African-American inventor.
He graduated from high school in 1951 इससे lanier ऊँची स्कूल in जैक्सन, मिसिसिपी.
He then attended Morehouse College for a couple of years before transferring to purdue विश्वविद्यालयों जहाँ he became a सदस्य of the ओमेगा psi फाई fraternity.
He received a Bachelor 's degree in विज्ञान इससे purdue विश्वविद्यालयों in 1956.
He graduated with an MS degree in engineering इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, लॉस एंजिल्स in 1961.
Sampson also received his MS in Nuclear अभियान्त्रिकी इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of इलिनोइस urbana-champaign in 1965, and his PhD in 1967.
He is the पहला अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी to earn a ph.d.in नाभिकीय अभियान्त्रिकी in the United States.
Some of his accomplishments include being a member of the United States Navy between the सालो 1962 और 1964 और कमाई an परमाणु उर्जा आयोग सम्मान between 1964 and 1967.
Later he was awarded the Black Image पुरस्कार इससे aerospace निगम in 1982.
He was awarded the Blacks in Engineering, Applied विज्ञान पुरस्कार, और पुरस्कार लिये शिक्षा, by the लॉस एंजिल्स परिषद of Black Professional Engineers in 1983.
In June 2007, Sampson was married to Laura Howzell यंग in st. थामस, u.S. वर्जिन Islands.
Young-Sampson is a professor in the College of शिक्षा at कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों सैन bernardino.
Robert Lane Gibbs ( born March 29, 1971 ) is a वरिष्ठ अभियान adviser लिये us अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा.
Previously, he was the 28th श्वेत हाउस दबायें Secretary.
गिब्स थी the संचार निदेशक लिये then- U.S. Senator Obama and his 2008 presidential campaign.
Gibbs, who has worked with Obama since 2004, was press secretary of John Kerry 's 2004 presidential campaign and has previously specialized in सीनेट अभियान, having परोसा as संचार निदेशक लिये the लोकतांत्रिक senatorial अभियान कमेटी and for four individual Senate campaigns, including those of Obama in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998.
Gibbs was also the press सचिव of प्रतिनिधि bob Etheridge.
On November 22, 2008, गिब्स थी घोषित as the दबायें सचिव of the Obama administration.
he assumed the भूमिका of दबायें सचिव on जनवरी 20, 2009, और gave his first official briefing on January 22.
On January 5, 2011, Gibbs घोषित कि he होता छोड़ the White House to become an outside adviser to the administration.
He बाएँ on फ़रवरी 11, 2011.
On फ़रवरी 12, 2013, it थी घोषित कि गिब्स था महरूम hired as a contributor for cable-news channel MSNBC.
His first appearance थी on the वही रात्रि prior to the 2013 State Of The Union Address.
Armando Pérez ( born January 15, 1981 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम pitbull, is an अमरीकी rapper, songwriter, और record producer.
His first recorded प्रदर्शन थी इससे the लील jon एल्बम किंग्स of crunk in 2002.
In 2004, he released उसके डेब्यू एल्बम titled m.i.a.m.i. ( short for Money Is A Major Issue ) under TVT Records.
Since तब, he रै released तीन अन्य एल्बम अंतर्गत the लेबल : el mariel in 2006, The Boatlift in 2007, and Planet Pit in 2011.
He released Rebelution in 2009, which included singles `` i जान तुम want me ( calle Ocho ) `` and `` Krazy ``.
The latter peaked at No. 30 on the Hot 100 and No. 11 on the Hot Rap Tracks charts जबकि `` i जान तुम want me '' peaked at no. 2 on the hot 100 और peaked भीतर the शीर्ष ten spots of charts in the UK, Canada, Italy, and the Netherlands.
The song reached No. 1 in फ़्रांस और the यूरोपीय hot 100 on the week ending August 29, 2009 according to Billboard magazine.
He later signed with Polo Grounds म्यूज़िक through सोनी म्यूज़िक और निर्मित his own label Mr. 305 Inc.
Another single from Rebelution was `` होटल रूम सेवा ``, जिससे peaked at no. 8 on the hot 100.
Rebelution went on to sell over 7.5 million विश्वव्यापी डिजिटल singles और एल्बम संयुक्त.
Nevertheless, he dropped a smash called `` दे me सबकुछ '' जिससे पहुँचे # 1 विश्वव्यापी, and featured artists Ne-yo, Nayer, and Afrojack.
He has also performed as a featured artist in the remixes of many other hit songs, like tik टोक, चीख & चिल्लाओ, lo hecho esta hecho, ख़राब, papi, ईंट, कैसा कम, tonight ( i 'm lovin ' तुम ), वीडियो फोन, Over To You Now and Bumpy Ride.
Pérez is also the host of his own Spanish-language program on the केबल चैनल mun2 titled la esquina ( स्पेनी लिये The Corner ).
In 2005 Pérez and rapper Sean 'diddy ' combs co-founded ख़राब लड़के लातीनी, a subsidiary of Combs ' Bad Boy Records label.
It primarily focuses on लैटिन हिप हॉप, लैटिन आत्मा, लैटिन पॉप और other Tropical music, and has offices in New York and Miami, Florida.
Along with co-founding it, pérez फिलहाल heads the A & R division of the label.
Pérez has become a product endorser, representing alongside ड्रेक, रिहाना, और trey songz the “so kodak” अभियान लिये the कोडक ब्रांड और embarking on a साझेदारी साथ the नरम पेय दानव dr pepper as भाग of the अभियान “ Vida 23 ” for which he recorded the song specifically featured on his album Armando.
Pitbull also announced he has become the spokesperson for voli वोदका, in जिससे he holds a बहुमत इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी, और budweiser रै चुनी pitbull to promote its Bud Light line of beer.
The commercials currently highlight Pitbull dancing और gyrating on स्टेज पकड़कर up a बोतल of कली लाइट.
pitbull रै भी खरीदा an इक्विटी stake in Miami Subs Pizza and Grill.
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ), also ज्ञात as सब hallows ' संध्या, is a वार्षिक जश्न observed in a क्रमांक of देशों on अक्तूबर 31, the संध्या of the पश्चिमी ईसाई feast of सब hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas.
according to अनेक विद्वानों, सब hallows ' संध्या is a christianised feast originally बहकावे by पश्चिमी European harvest festivals, and festivals of the dead with possible pagan roots, particularly the Celtic Samhain.
Other scholars maintain that it originated independently of samhain और रै solely Christian roots.
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ), attending costume parties, carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns, lighting bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted आकर्षण, playing pranks, telling डरावने कहानियां, और watching हॉरर films.
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's opinions and विचार using एक 's देह और प्रॉपर्टी to anyone जो is willing to receive them.
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, लकिन शामिल कोई अधिनियम of seeking, receiving और imparting सूचना or विचार, regardless of the medium used.
In practice, the सही to स्वतंत्रता of वाक is नहीं निरपेक्ष in कोई देश और the सही is commonly विषय to सीमाएं, as साथ मानहानि, slander, obscenity, sedition ( including, for example inciting ethnic hatred ), copyright violation, revelation of information that is classified or otherwise.
The right to freedom of expression is recognized as a human right under Article 19 of the सार्वभौमिक घोषणा of इंसान अधिकारों और पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय इंसान अधिकारों विधि in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय वचन on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ).
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' और `` everyone shall have the सही to स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति ; इस सही shall शामिल स्वतंत्रता to तलाश, प्राप्त और impart सूचना and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice ''.
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and responsibilities `` and may `` इसलिए be विषय to निश्चित प्रतिबंध '' जब जरुरी `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or प्रतिष्ठा of अन्य '' or `` [ f ] or the सुरक्षा of नेशनल security or of public order ( order public ), or of public health or morals ''.
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in कुछ धार्मिक विधिक प्रणालियों और in धर्मनिरपेक्ष jurisdictions जहाँ it is मिला to कारण religious offense, such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006.
Sydney Harbour from the air, प्रर्दशित the ओपेरा हाउस, the सीबीडी, Circular Quay, the Bridge, the Parramatta River, North Sydney and Kirribilli in the foreground
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is a steel through arch bridge across Sydney Harbour कि carries रेल, vehicular, सायकिल और पैदल ट्रैफ़िक between the सिडनी सेंट्रल कारोबार ज़िला ( CBD ) and the North Shore.
the नाटकीय दृश्य of the सेतु, the harbour, और the nearby Sydney Opera House is an iconic image of Sydney, New South Wales, and Australia.
The सेतु is nicknamed `` the coathanger '' क्युकी of its arch-based design.
Under the directions of Dr J.J.C. Bradfield of the NSW Department of पब्लिक works, the सेतु थी designed और निर्मित by अंग्रेजों कड़ Dorman Long and Co Ltd of Middlesbrough and opened in 1932.
The bridge 's design was influenced by the नरक फाटक सेतु in नई York.
It was the world 's widest long-span bridge, at 48.8 meters ( 160 feet ) wide, until construction of the नई बंदरगाहों मन सेतु in वैंकूवर.
It is also the fifth longest spanning-arch bridge in the world, and it is the tallest स्टील मेहराब सेतु, measuring इससे शीर्ष to water level.
Until 1967 the harbour सेतु थी सिडनी 's tallest structure.
The Hawaii hotspot is a volcanic हॉटस्पॉट स्तिथ निकट the namesake हवाई आइलैंड्स, in the northern Pacific Ocean.
One of the most well-known and heavily studied hotspots in the संसार, the हवाई plume is जिम्मेदार लिये the सृष्टि of the हवाई – सम्राट seamount कड़ी, an over 5,800 किलोमीटर ( 3,600 mi ) long chain of volcanoes, four of which are active, two of which are dormant, and more than 123 of which are extinct, many having since been ground beneath the waves by erosion as seamounts and atolls.
The chain extends from south of the द्वीप of हवाई to the किनारे of the aleutian गर्त, निकट the eastern edge of Russia.
While most ज्वालामुखी हैं निर्मित by geological कार्यकलाप at tectonic थाली सीमाएँ, the हवाई हॉटस्पॉट is स्तिथ दूर इससे आसपास थाली सीमाएँ ; the क्लासिक हॉटस्पॉट सिद्धान्त, पहला प्रस्तावित in 1963 by जॉन tuzo विल्सन, proposes that a single, fixed mantle plume builds volcanoes that then, cut off from their source by the movement of the Pacific Plate, become increasingly inactive and eventually erode below sea level over millions of years.
According to this theory, the nearly 60° bend separating the Emperor and Hawaiian खण्ड of the कड़ी थी caused by a अचानक शिफ़्ट in the गति of the प्रशांत Plate.
In 2003, fresh investigations of this irregularity led to the proposal of a mobile hotspot theory, suggesting that hotspots are मोबाईल, नहीं फिक्स्ड, और कि the 47 लाख साल बूढ़ा बेंड थी caused by a shift in the hotspot 's motion rather than the plate 's.
Ancient Hawaiians were the first to recognize the increasing age and weathered state of the ज्वालामुखी to the उत्तर as वे progressed on फ़िशिंग रिझाने along the islands.
The volatile state of the Hawaiian volcanoes and their निरंतर बैटल साथ the समुद्र थी a प्रमुख तत्व in हवाई mythology, embodied in Pele, the deity of volcanoes.
After the arrival of Europeans on the island, in 1880-1881 जेम्स ड्वाइट दाना निर्देशित the पहला औपचारिक geological पढ़ाई of the हॉटस्पॉट 's volcanics, confirming the संबंध long observed by the natives.
1912 marked the founding of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory by volcanologist Thomas Jaggar, initiating निरन्तर वैज्ञानिक अवलोकन of the आइलैंड्स.
In the 1970s, a mapping project was initiated to gain अधिक सूचना परिचय the जटिल भूविज्ञान of Hawaii 's seafloor.
The hotspot has since been tomographically imaged, showing it to be चौड़ी और up to गहन, और ओलीवाइन और गार्नेट -आधारd अध्ययन have shown its magma chamber is approximately.
In its at least 85 million years of कार्यकलाप the हॉटस्पॉट रै उत्पादित an अनुमानित of rock.
the कड़ी 's रेट of बहाव रै धीरे increased over समय, causing the राशि of समय प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत ज्वालामुखी is क्रियाशील to घटी, इससे 18 लाख सालो लिये the 76 लाख साल बूढ़ा डेट्रॉयट seamount, to बस under 900,000 for the one million year-old Kohala ; on the other hand, eruptive volume has increased from per year to about.
Overall, this has caused a trend towards more active but quickly-silenced, closely spaced volcanoes—whereas volcanoes on the near side of the हॉटस्पॉट ओवरलैप प्रत्येक अन्य ( forming ऐसे superstructures as हवाई द्वीप और the प्राचीन मावी नुई ), the oldest of the Emperor seamounts are spaced as far as apart.
David Palmer, director of the show, announced that the ऋतु 4 finale is the श्रेणी finale क्युकी निकलोडियन रद्द the show.
याचिकाएं हैं होने हस्ताक्षरित to लाओ the दिखाएँ for a fifth season.
The show airs on Treehouse TV Canada और उपनाम jr. ( formerly Noggin ).
Eddie and the Cruisers is a 1983 American film directed by Martin Davidson with the screenplay लिखा by the निदेशक और arlene डेविडसन, आधारित on the novel by P. F. Kluge.
It was marketed साथ the टैगलाइन `` Rebel.
रॉकर.
प्रेमी.
आइडल.
vanished. ''
Osteonecrosis of the jaw ( ONJ ) is a कठोर अस्थि बीमारी कि affects the maxilla and the mandible.
विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म of onj have महरूम वर्णित over the पिछला 160 सालो, and a number of causes have been suggested in the literature.
osteonecrosis of the जबड़े संबद्ध with bisphosphonate therapy, required by some cancer treatment regimens, has been identified and defined as a pathological entity since 2003.
The possible risk from lower oral doses of bisphosphonates, लिया by मरीजों to prevent or दावत ऑस्टियोपोरोसिस, remains uncertain.
Various treatment विकल्प have महरूम छान, however कठोर मामले of onj स्टिल require surgical removal of the affected bone.
A thorough इतिहास और assessement of pre-existing प्रणालीगत समस्याएं और संभावित साइट of दंत infection are required to help prevent the condition, especially if bisphosphonate therapy is considered.
The बोस्टन रेड sox हैं a पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in बोस्टन, मैसाचुसेट्स, and a member of Major League Baseball 's American League Eastern Division.
Founded in as एक of the अमरीकी लीग 's आठ चार्टर franchises, the Red Sox 's home ballpark has been Fenway Park since.
The `` Red Sox '' name was chosen by the team owner, John I. Taylor, around, following previous Boston टीमों कि था महरूम ज्ञात as the `` रेड stockings ``.
They have played in 11 World श्रेणी, जीतना 7.
Boston was a dominant team in the new league, defeating the पिट्सबर्ग pirates in the पहला संसार श्रेणी in और जीतना चार more championships by.
However, they then went into one of the longest championship droughts in baseball history, called by some the `` Curse of the Bambino `` after its alleged beginning with the Red sox 's बिक्री of बेब रुथ to the प्रतिद्वंद्वी यांकीज़ दो सालो बाद उनके संसार चैंपियनशिप in 1918, an 86-year wait before the team 's sixth World Championship in.
however, the टोली 's इतिहास दौरान कि काल थी hardly एक of futility, लकिन थी बल्कि punctuated साथ कुछ of the most memorable moments in World Series history, including Enos Slaughter 's `` mad dash `` in, the `` Impossible Dream `` of, Carlton Fisk 's home run in, and Bill Buckner 's error in.
Red Sox history रै भी महरूम चिह्नित by the टोली 's तीव्र फंसने साथ the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़, arguably the fiercest and most historic in North American professional sports.
The Boston Red sox हैं स्वामित्व by fenway खेल समूह, जो भी अपना Liverpool Football Club of the Premier League in England.
The Red Sox are consistently one of the शीर्ष एमएलबी टीमों in औसत सड़क उपस्थिति, जबकि the small capacity of Fenway Park prevents them from leading in overall attendance.
From May 15, 2003 to April 10, 2013, the Red Sox sold out every home game-a total of 820 games ( 794 regular ऋतु ) लिये a प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल रिकार्ड कि lasted almost a decade.
mince पाई भर साथ mincemeat
Mincemeat is a mixture of कटा सूखी फल, आसुत आत्माओं और मसाले, और sometimes बीफ suet, beef, or venison.
Originally, mincemeat सदा contained मांस.
Many आधुनिक व्यंजनों contain बीफ suet, हालांकि सब्ज़ी shortening is sometimes used in its place.
विसंगतियाँ of mincemeat हैं मिला in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, ब्रिटनी, Canada, northern Europe, Ireland, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States.
In some countries the term mincemeat refers to minced or मैदान meat.
Diana, Princess of Wales ( Diana frances ; née स्पेंसर ; 1 जुलाई 1961 – 31 अगस्त 1997 ) थी the पहला बीवी of चार्ल्स, प्रिंस of Wales, the eldest son and heir apparent of Queen Elizabeth II.
She was well ज्ञात लिये उसके fund-raising कार्य लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय charities and as an eminent celebrity of the late 20th century.
Her wedding to the Prince of Wales on 29 July 1981 was held at st पॉल 's गिरजाघर और देखी by a वैश्विक टेलीविज़न दर्शक of over 750 million.
While married she bore the titles Princess of वेल्स, duchess of कॉर्नवॉल, duchess of rothesay, countess of Chester and Baroness of Renfrew.
The marriage उत्पादित दो बेटे, the princes विलियम और हैरी, जो became second and third in line to the British throne.
डायना थी born into an वैभवशाली English family with royal ancestry.
She was the fourth child of John Spencer, 8th अर्ल स्पेंसर और उसके बीवी frances, बेटी of मौरिस रोश, 4th सामन्त fermoy.
She became a पब्लिक फिगर साथ the घोषणा of her engagement.
She also received मान्यता लिये उसके दान कार्य और लिये उसके support of the International Campaign to Ban Landmines.
From 1989, she was the president of the ग्रेट ormond गली हॉस्पिटल लिये children, in जोड to दर्जनों of अन्य charities.
डायना remained the ऑब्जेक्ट of विश्वव्यापी मीडिया scrutiny दौरान और बाद उसके विवाह, which ended in divorce on 28 August 1996.
Media ध्यान और पब्लिक शोक यहूद considerable following उसके मौत in a car crash in Paris on 31 August 1997.
Argentina, officially the अर्जेंटाइन गणतंत्र ( ), is the second largest country in both South America and the Latin America region.
The country is a संघ of 23 प्रांतों और the autonomous नगर of buenos Aires, its capital and largest city.
It is the eighth -largest country in the world by land area and the largest among Spanish-speaking nations by भौगोलिक क्षेत्रफल of 2,780,400 km2 और is the चौथी by जनसांख्यिकी, साथ over 41 लाख लोगों.
अर्जेंटीना is a founding सदस्य of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, mercosur, the संघ of दक्षिण अमरीकी राष्ट्र, the संगठन of ibero-american States, the World Bank Group and the World Trade Organization, and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies.
Argentina is located in South America, bordered by चिली to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण, बोलीविया और पैराग्वे to the उत्तर और Brazil and Uruguay to the northeast.
अर्जेंटीना दावा प्रभुता over भाग of अंटार्कटिक, the फ़ॉकलैंड Islands ( ) and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.
Argentina is the successor राज्य of the viceroyalty of the río de la प्लाटा, an overseas colony of the Spanish Empire.
Argentina declared स्वतंत्रता दौरान the अर्जेंटाइन युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता, जिससे थी followed by the Argentine Civil Wars during most of the 19th century.
The देश faced अनेक सैन्य coups और राजनैतिक अस्थिरता during the 20th century, along with periodic economic crisis that continue to this day.
A पहचाना दक्षिणी कोन शक्ति, और मध्य शक्ति, अर्जेंटीना is लैटिन अमेरिका 's third-largest अर्थव्यवस्था, with a `` very high '' rating on the Human development index.
Within Latin America, Argentina has the fifth उच्चतम नाममात्र जीडीपी प्रति capita और the उच्चतम in खरीदना power terms.
The Legatum Institute have argued that the country has a `` foundation for future growth due to इसके मार्केट आकार, स्तर of विदेशी सीधा निवेश, और प्रतिशत of high-tech निर्यात as share of कुल manufactured goods '', और it is classed by निवेशकों as middle emerging economy.
Argentina is the Latin American country with the most Nobel Prizes, for a total of पाँच, सब प्राप्त दौरान the दूसरी हाफ of the बीसवीं सदी.
the देश रै तीन नोबेल पुरस्कार in science and two of peace.
The most important aspects of science and technology in अर्जेंटीना हैं चिंतित साथ आयुर्विज्ञान, नाभिकीय भौतिकी, जैवप्रौद्योगिकी, nanotechnology, space and rocket technology and several fields related to the country 's Main Economic Activities.
The country also has the mega प्रदर्शनी बीच of विज्ञान, प्रौद्योगिकी, उद्योग और आर्ट that are Latin America 's largest.
Hickory is a city in Catawba County, with parts भी in बुर्के काउंटी और काल्डवेल काउंटी.
The नगर 's 2010 अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी is 40,010.
hickory is the प्रिंसिपल नगर in the hickory-lenoir-morganton एमएसए, in which the population at the 2010 Census was 365,497.
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ), commonly abbreviated पालतु, पीट, or the obsolete petp or pet-p, is a thermoplastic पॉलिमर राल of the पॉलिएस्टर परिवार और is प्रयुक्त in सिंथेटिक मछली ; beverage, food and other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering resins often in combination with glass fiber.
The term polyethylene terephthalate is a सोर्स of भ्रम क्युकी इस पदार्थ, PET, does not contain polyethylene.
Thus, the alternate form, poly ( ethylene terephthalate ), is प्रायः प्रयुक्त in scholarly जर्नल्स लिये the खातिर of accuracy and clarity.
Depending on its processing and thermal history, polyethylene terephthalate may exist both as an amorphous ( पारदर्शी ) और as a semi-crystalline पॉलिमर.
The semicrystalline material might appear transparent ( particle size < 500 nm ) or opaque and श्वेत ( कण आकार up to a few माइक्रोन ) depending on its crystal structure and particle size.
Its monomer ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification प्रतिक्रिया between terephthalic एसिड और एथिलीन ग्लाइकोल साथ जल as a byproduct, or by transesterification प्रतिक्रिया between ethylene glycol and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct.
बहुलकीकरण is through a polycondensation प्रतिक्रिया of the monomers ( done immediately after esterification/transesterification ) with water as the byproduct.
The majority of the world 's PET production is for synthetic fibers ( in excess of 60 % ), साथ बोतल उत्पादन हिसाब लिये around 30 % of global demand.
In the context of textile applications, PET is referred to by its common नाम, `` पॉलिएस्टर, '' whereas the एक्रोनिम `` पालतु '' is generally used in relation to packaging.
Polyester makes up परिचय 18 % of संसार पॉलिमर उत्पादन और is the third-most-produced polymer ; polyethylene ( PE ) and polypropylene ( PP ) are first and second, respectively.
PET consists of polymerized इकाई of the मोनोमर एथिलीन terephthalate, with repeating C10H8O4 units.
PET is commonly recycled, और रै the number `` 1 '' as its recycling symbol.
louisiana थी admitted to the संघ on अप्रैल 30, 1812, and elects senators to Classes 2 and Class 3.
Its current senators are Democrat Mary landrieu और रिपब्लिकन दाउद vitter.
Black pudding, blood pudding or blood sausage is a प्रकार of सॉसेज बना by कुकिंग रक्त or सूखी रक्त साथ a फिलर जबतक it is thick enough to congeal when cooled.
the डिश exists in विभिन्न संस्कृतियों इससे Asia to Europe and the Americas.
Pig, चौपायों, शीप, बतख, और बकरी रक्त can be used depending on different countries.
In Europe and the Americas, typical fillers include मांस, मोटे, suet, ब्रैड, cornmeal, मीठी आलू, प्याज, chestnuts, barley, and oatmeal.
In Spain, पुर्तगाल और एशिया, आलू is often replaced by rice.
शेयरधारक may refer to:
Stakeholder ( corporate ), a person, group, organization, सदस्य or प्रणाली जो affects or can be प्रभावित by an संगठन 's actions
Stakeholder, an एंटिटी कि can be प्रभावित by the परिणाम of कि in जिससे वे हैं कहा to be हितधारकों, i.e., that in which they have a stake.
प्रोजेक्ट शेयरधारक, a व्यक्ति, समूह or organization with an interest in a project
Stakeholder theory, a theory that identifies and मॉडल the समूह जिससे हैं stakeholders of a corporation or project
Stakeholder विश्लेषण, the प्रक्रम of identifying those affected by a project or event
Stakeholder ( law ), a third पार्टी जो temporarily holds धन or प्रॉपर्टी जबकि इसके owner is still being determined
Jack smight ( कूच 9, 1925 - सितंबर 1, 2003 ) थी an American theatre and film director.
Smight was born in Minneapolis, मिनेसोटा और गई to स्कूल साथ भविष्य कर्ता पीटर Graves.
His film credits include The Traveling Executioner, Rabbit, Run, Loving Couples, Midway, हार्पर, विमानक्षेत्र 1975, फटकार alley और the एमी पुरस्कार -winning एडी, as खूब as अनेक एपीसोड of टेलीविज़न श्रेणी ऐसे as The Twilight Zone and The Alfred Hitchcock Hour.
He also directed the 1960 ब्रॉडवे खेल the 49th cousin और रचित the music for the film adaption of Roll of Thunder Hear My Cry.
Smight died इससे कर्कट in लॉस एंजिल्स, California.
Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev ( ; 8 February 1834 – 2 February 1907 O.S. 27 जनवरी 1834 – 20 जनवरी 1907 ) थी a रूसी केमिस्ट and inventor.
He formulated the Periodic Law, created his own version of the periodic table of elements, and used it to सही the गुण of कुछ already खोजा तत्व और भी to भविष्यवाणी the गुण of तत्व yet to be खोजा !
Modesto ( स्पेनी लिये `` modest '' ), officially the नगर of modesto, is the काउंटी सीट और largest city of Stanislaus County, California, United States.
With a population of approximately 201,165 at the 2010 census, Modesto ranks as the 18th largest नगर in the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया.
The Modesto Census County Division, which शामिल the शहरों of ceres और riverbank, रै a जनसांख्यिकी of 312,842 as of 2010.
Modesto is located in the central valley area of Northern California, 90 miles उत्तर of fresno, 92 मील ईस्ट of सैन फ्रांसिस्को, 68 मील दक्षिण of the राज्य पूंजी of sacramento, 66 मील वेस्ट of Yosemite National Park, and 24 miles south of Stockton.
Modesto, a 29-time Tree City USA honoree, is surrounded by समृद्ध farmland, lending to a रैंकिंग लिये the काउंटी as 6th among सब कैलिफ़ोर्निया counties in farm production.
Led by milk, almonds, chickens, walnuts, and मकई साइलेज, the काउंटी grossed nearly $ 3.1 अरब in agricultural production in 2011.
Modesto थी immortalized in the 1973 जार्ज लुकास फिल्मी American Graffiti.
The पुरस्कार जीतना फिल्मी captured the स्पिरिट of `` cruising '' और दोस्ती on 10th और 11th गलियों in 1962 and led to the revival of 1950 's nostalgia that included the TV show Happy Days and the other spin-offs.
Ron Howard, हैरिसन घाट और रिचर्ड Dreyfuss starred in the film.
The साउंडट्रैक थी a विशाल कामयाबी.
Director George Lucas is a native of modesto, graduating इससे downey ऊँची स्कूल in 1962.
The gallup-healthways well-being अनुक्रमणिका लिये 2011, जिससे साक्षात्कार 1,000 भागीदार रोज़ और asks individuals to assess उनके कार्य, finances, शारीरिक health, emotional state of mind and communities, ranked Modesto 126 out of the 190 cities surveyed.
In December 2009, Forbes ranked Modesto 48th आउट of 100 among `` बेहतरीन bang-for-the-buck शहरों ''.
In this ranking, Modesto क्रमित 8th in आवास affordability और सफर समय लकिन भी क्रमित 86th in जॉब forecast growth and 99th in foreclosures.
Independence Day, commonly known as the Fourth of जुलाई, is a संघीय अवकाश in the संयुक्त राज्य commemorating the अपनाना of the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता on July 4, 1776, declaring independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain.
Independence Day is commonly associated with आतिशबाजी, parades, barbecues, carnivals, मेलों, picnics, कॉन्सर्ट, बेसबॉल खेल, परिवार reunions, और राजनैतिक भाषणों and ceremonies, in addition to various other public and private events celebrating the history, government, and traditions of the United States.
Independence Day is the national दिन of the संयुक्त राज्य.
A gender symbol denotes the sex of an सजीव or characterizes an एजेंट by gender.
The two standard gender symbols denoting पुरूष ♂ और मादा ♀ हैं निकला इससे astrological symbols, denoting the classical planets Mars and Venus, respectively.
These symbols have been in use since the पुनर्जागरण भी denoting तत्व in alchemy, specifically the metals iron and copper.
They were first used to denote the effective gender of plants ( i.e. sex of individual in a दिए crossbreed, चूंकि सबसे पौधे हैं hermaphroditic ) by carolus लीनियस in 1751.
A leasehold estate is an ownership of a अस्थाई सही to थाम जमीन or प्रॉपर्टी in जिससे a lessee or a किरायेदार holds rights of real property by some form of title from a lessor or landlord.
Although a tenant does hold rights to real property, a leasehold एस्टेट is typically माना निजी property.
Leasehold is a form of land tenure or property tenure where one पार्टी खरीदता the सही to occupy जमीन or a भवन लिये a दिए लंबाई of समय.
As lease is a legal estate, leasehold एस्टेट can be खरीदा और बेची on the खोलें market.
A leasehold thus differs from a freehold or fee simple where the ownership of a property is purchased outright and thereafter held for an अनिर्धार्य लंबाई of समय, और भी differs इससे a tenancy जहाँ a प्रॉपर्टी is let ( rented ) on a आवधिक आधार ऐसे as साप्ताहिक or monthly.
Until the समाप्त of the पट्टे काल ( प्रायः measured in दशकों or सदियां ; a 99 साल पट्टे is काफी common ) the leaseholder has the right to remain in occupation as an assured tenant paying an agreed rent to the owner.
Terms of the agreement are contained in a पट्टे, जिससे रै तत्व of अनुबंध और प्रॉपर्टी law intertwined.
The term estate for years may occasionally be used.
This refers to a leasehold एस्टेट लिये कोई विशिष्ट काल of समय ( the word `` years '' is misleading ).
An estate लिये सालो is नहीं automatically renewed.
colloquially, `` पट्टे '' और `` पट्टे `` हैं प्रायः a formalization of a longer, विशिष्ट काल as compared साथ a `` rental '' that created a tenancy at will, terminable or renewable at the end of a short period.
Olivia ( also known as Welcome to the संसार of the सुअर ओलिविया ) is a british-american children 's एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न series produced by media company Chorion and based on Ian Falconer 's books.
It is seen on Nick Jr. in the us, मिल्कशेक !
, Nick Jr. in the uk और आयरलैंड, और डिज़्नी जूनियर in लैटिन अमेरिका और ब्राज़ील, Treehouse TV in Canada.
The show has won a चांदी अभिभावक ' चुनाव पुरस्कार लिये इसके धनात्मक स्टोरी lines and characters.
Location of Panama between प्रशांत ( नीचे ) और caribbean ( शीर्ष ), with canal at top center
The Panama Canal ( ) is a ship canal in Panama that connects the अटलांटिक समंदर ( via the caribbean समुद्र ) to the प्रशांत Ocean.
the कनाल कटौती आरपार the isthmus of Panama and is a key conduit for international maritime trade.
There are locks at each समाप्त to लिफ्ट जहाजों up to Gatun Lake ( above sea-level ).
Gatun Lake was created to reduce the राशि of कार्य जरूरी लिये the कनाल.
The current ताले हैं चौड़ी.
A third, wider लेन of ताले is होने निर्मित.
France began कार्य on the कनाल in 1881, लकिन था to रोकें क्युकी of engineering problems and high mortality due to disease.
The United States ( US ) later took over the प्रोजेक्ट और took a दशक to पूरा the कनाल in 1914, enabling जहाजों to avoid the lengthy केप सींग route around the southernmost tip of South America ( via the Drake Passage ) or to navigate the Strait of Magellan.
One of the largest and most difficult engineering projects ever undertaken, the Panama Canal shortcut बना it संभावित लिये जहाजों to सफर between the अटलांटिक और प्रशांत Oceans in half the time previously required.
The shorter, faster, safer route to the US West Coast and to nations in and along the Pacific समंदर अनुमत those स्थान to become अधिक एकीकृत साथ the संसार अर्थव्यवस्था.
During इस समय, स्वामित्व of the territory कि is now the Panama Canal was first Colombian, then French, and then American ; the United States completed the construction.
The canal was taken over in 1999 by the panamanian सरकारी, as long planned.
Annual traffic has risen इससे परिचय 1,000 जहाजों जब the कनाल खोली in 1914, to 14,702 बरतन in 2008, the latter measuring a total of 309.6 million Panama Canal/Universal Measurement System ( PC/UMS ) tons.
By 2008, more than 815,000 बरतन था passed through the कनाल, अनेक of उन्हें much larger than the original planners could have envisioned ; the largest ships that can transit the canal today are called Panamax.
The अमरीकी समाज of सिविल इंजीनियर्स रै नामित the पनामा Canal one of the seven wonders of the modern world.
Benjamin Franklin ( April 17, 1790 ) थी एक of the founding fathers of the संयुक्त States.
A noted polymath, Franklin was a leading author, printer, political theorist, politician, postmaster, वैज्ञानिक, संगीतकार, आविष्कारक, satirist, नागरिक activist, statesman, और राजनयिक.
As a scientist, he was a major figure in the American आत्मज्ञान और the इतिहास of भौतिकी लिये उसके discoveries और theories regarding electricity.
He invented the बिजली लाठी, bifocals, the फ्रैंकलिन स्टोव, a carriage odometer, and the glass 'armonica '.
He facilitated many civic संगठन, सहित a आग विभाग और a university.
Franklin earned the title of `` The First American '' for his early and indefatigable campaigning for colonial एकता ; as an लेखक और प्रवक्ता in लंदन लिये अनेक colonies, तब as the पहला संयुक्त राज्य दूत to फ़्रांस, he सरंचनाओं the उभरते American nation.
Franklin was foundational in defining the American ethos as a marriage of the practical values of thrift, मुश्किल कार्य, शिक्षा, जातियाँ स्पिरिट, self-governing संस्थानों, और विपक्ष to authoritarianism दोनो राजनैतिक and religious, with the scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment.
In the words of historian Henry Steele Commager, `` in a फ्रैंकलिन could be मिलाया the virtues of puritanism बगैर इसके दोषों, the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat. ''
to वाल्टर isaacson, इस makes फ्रैंकलिन `` the most accomplished American of his age and the most influential in inventing the type of society America would become. ''
Franklin, always proud of his working class roots, became a successful newspaper एडिटर और मुद्रक in फिलाडेल्फिया, the अग्रणी नगर in the colonies.
He was also partners with William Goddard and Joseph गैलोवे the तीन of जिसको प्रकाशित the पेन्सिलवेनिया वृत्तान्त, a समाचारपत्र कि थी ज्ञात for its revolutionary sentiments and criticisms of the British monarchy in the American colonies.
He became wealthy publishing Poor Richard 's almanack और the पेन्सिलवेनिया गजट.
Franklin gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय renown as a वैज्ञानिक लिये उसके प्रसिद्ध प्रयोग in विद्युत और लिये his many inventions, especially the lightning rod.
He played a major role in establishing the विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया और थी निर्वाचित the first president of the American Philosophical Society.
Franklin became a नेशनल नायिका in अमेरिका जब he पथप्रदर्शन the effort to have Parliament repeal the unpopular Stamp Act.
An accomplished diplomat, he was widely admired among the French as अमरीकी मंत्री to पेरिस और थी a प्रमुख फिगर in the विकास of धनात्मक franco-american relations.
For अनेक सालो he थी the अंग्रेजों postmaster लिये the colonies, which enabled him to set up the first national communications network.
He was active in community अफेयर्स, औपनिवेशिक और राज्य राजनीती, as well as national and international affairs.
From 1785 to 1788, he परोसा as governor of Pennsylvania.
toward the समाप्त of उसके जीवन, he freed उसके स्लेव और became one of the most prominent abolitionists.
His रंगीन जीवन और विरासत of वैज्ञानिक और राजनैतिक उपलब्धि, और औकात as एक of अमेरिका 's सबसे influential founding fathers, have देखी फ्रैंकलिन सम्मानित on coinage और धन ; warships ; the names of अनेक towns, counties, educational institutions, namesakes, and companies ; and more than two centuries after his death, countless cultural references.
दण्ड minds is an अमरीकी पुलिस प्रक्रियात्मक टेलीविज़न program that premiered September 22, 2005, on CBS.
The series follows a team of profilers इससे the एफबीआई 's behavioral विश्लेषण ईकाई ( bau ) आधारित in Quantico, Virginia.
The BAU is part of the FBI नेशनल बीच लिये the विश्लेषण of हिंसक Crime.
The show differs from many procedural dramas by focusing on प्रोफाइलिंग the दण्ड, rather than the crime itself.
The show is produced by The Mark Gordon Company in association with CBS Television studios ( originally सर्वोपरि संजाल टेलीविज़न तब सीबीएस सर्वोपरि संजाल टेलीविज़न ) और एबीसी studios ( originally Touchstone Television ).
CBS announced in October 2009 कि विरासत इंटरैक्टिव होता develop a video game based on the show.
The game would आवश्यकता खिलाड़ी to जाँचें अपराधों दृश्यों for clues to help solve murder mysteries.
The interactive puzzle game was released in 2012, लकिन किया नहीं feature any of the voices of the show 's cast, nor was the cast involved with the project.
On March 14, 2012, CBS renewed दण्ड minds लिये an आठवीं ऋतु, जिससे premiered on September 26, 2012.
`` Heart-Shaped Box '' is a song by the अमरीकी grunge बैंड निर्वाण, लिखा by vocalist and guitarist Kurt Cobain.
The song थी released as the पहला सिंगल इससे the समूह 's third and final studio album, In Utero, in 1993.
It was one of two songs इससे the एल्बम मिश्रित by स्कॉट litt in अनुक्रम to augment the original production by producer Steve Albini.
जबकि निर्वाण 's लेबल dgc रिकॉर्ड किया नहीं release a physical single for sale in the United States, `` Heart-Shaped Box '' received much American radio airplay, reaching number one on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart.
The international release of the single reached क्रमांक पाँच on the uk singles Chart.
The song 's music वीडियो, निर्देशित by एंटोन corbijn, garnered critical plaudits.
The orbital speed of a body, generally a planet, a natural उपग्रह, an कृत्रिम उपग्रह, or a multiple star, is the speed at which it orbits around the barycenter of a system, usually around a more massive body.
It can be used to refer to either the औसत कक्षीय गति, the औसत गति as it completes an कक्षा, or instantaneous orbital speed, the speed at a particular point in its orbit.
the कक्षीय गति at कोई स्थिति in the कक्षा can be computed इससे the अलहदा to the सेंट्रल देह at कि स्थिति, और the विशिष्ट orbital energy, which is independent of position : the kinetic energy is the total energy minus the potential energy.
Brown Palace आंतरिक और अलिंद
Brown Palace Hotel is the second-oldest ऑपरेटिंग होटल in डेनवर, कोलोराडो और is एक of the first atrium-style hotel ever built.
It is अभी संचालित by कोरम होटल और Resorts.
it थी निर्मित in 1892, एक साल later than the Oxford Hotel.
It was named for its original owner, Henry C. Brown, and was designed with इसके विषम triangular आकार by वास्तु फ़्रैंक edbrooke.
The hotel is located at 321 17th st, डेनवर, co between 17th गली, ब्रॉडवे और tremont Street/Pl in downtown Denver behind the Republic Plaza.
The main entrance द्वार is on tremont गली.
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs, and is फिलहाल the प्रबल उपभोक्ता वीडियो स्वरूप in एशिया, उत्तर अमेरिका, यूरोपीय, और ऑस्ट्रेलिया.
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive और an h.262/mpeg-2 भाग 2 डिकोडर ( e.g., a dvd खिलाड़ी, or a कंप्यूटर dvd ड्राइव साथ a software DVD player ).
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 संपीडित वीडियो और ऑडियो of varying स्वरुप ( प्रायः multi-channel formats as described below ).
Typically, the data rate लिये dvd फिल्मों सीमाएँ इससे 3 mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s, और the bit rate is usually adaptive.
It was first available लिये खुदरा around 1997.
the dvd-video specification थी निर्मित by dvd फ़ोरम और can be प्राप्त from DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000.
The specification is not publicly उपलब्धियाँ, क्युकी प्रत्येक सदस्य जरूर चिह्न a non-disclosure agreement.
निश्चित सूचना in the dvd किताब is proprietary and confidential.
The nautical mile ( symbol M, NM or nmi ) is a unit of length that is about one minute of arc of latitude measured along कोई मध्याह्न, or परिचय एक मिनट of चाप of देशांतर at the equator.
By अंतरराष्ट्रीय अनुबंध it has been set at 1,852 metres exactly ( about 6,076 feet ).
It is a non- SI unit ( although accepted लिये उपयोग in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रणाली of इकाई by the bipm ) used especially by navigators in the shipping and aviation industries, and also in polar exploration.
It is commonly used in international law and treaties, विशेषकर regarding the हद of territorial waters.
It developed इससे the समुद्र मील और the सम्बन्धित geographical mile.
The nautical mile remains in use by sea and air navigators विश्वव्यापी क्युकी of इसके convenience when working with charts.
Most nautical charts use the मर्केटर प्रक्षेप जिनकी स्केल varies by परिचय a फ़ैक्टर of छह इससे the equator to 80° latitude, so charts covering large areas can not use a single linear scale.
the nautical मील is nearly बराबर to a मिनट of अक्षांश on a चार्ट, so a अलहदा measured with a chart divider can be roughly converted to nautical miles using the chart 's latitude scale.
Shippensburg is a borough in Cumberland और फ्रैंकलिन काउंटी in the u.S. राज्य of पेन्सिलवेनिया.
settled in 1730, shippensburg झूठ in the कम्बरलैंड Valley, 41 miles ( 66 km ) west-southwest of Harrisburg, and is part of the Harrisburg– Carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area.
In 1900, 3,228 people lived there ; in 1910, 3,457 ; और in 1940, 5,244 लोगों lived there.
The population was 5,492 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी.
Shippensburg was incorporated as a बरो on January 21, 1819.
In the past, वहीँ यहूद फर्नीचर कारखानों, इंजन और पंप works, and other industrial works located within the town.
Shippensburg is also the home of The Beistle Company, the oldest and largest manufacturer of सजावट और पार्टी goods, जिससे बिकता इसके distinctive मधुकोश पेपर decorations worldwide.
It is भी the स्थान of pague और fegan, the oldest continuously operated hardware store in Pennsylvania.
In May 2012, वोल्वो निर्माण उपकरण began a $ 100 लाख विस्तार प्रोजेक्ट to लाओ its American headquarters to Shippensburg.
Shippensburg is also home to Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania, one of 14 विश्वविद्यालयों of the पेन्सिलवेनिया राज्य System of Higher Education.
Yearly the last full week of July, the shippensburg जातियाँ Fair is held.
Begun in 1958, the मेला बिल्स itself as Pennsylvania 's largest bi-county fair.
The fair includes agricultural exhibits, a craft show, खाना विक्रेता, और कार्निवल यात्राएँ amongst अन्य बाते.
Every summer on the last Saturday of August, Shippensburg holds the मकई पर्व, an इवेंट कि brings क्षेत्रीय शिल्पकार और विक्रेता to operate stands downtown.
The downtown is बंद to ट्रैफ़िक लिये at तनिक 5 blocks for most of the day.
Average attendance at the festival is अनुमानित at 60,000 - 70,000 each year.
Black hairy tongue ( BHT, also termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a कंडीशन of the जीभ जहाँ the filiform papillae elongate with black or brown discoloration, giving a black and hairy appearance.
The रूप may be alarming, but it is a harmless condition.
Predisposing factors शामिल धूम्रपान, xerostomia ( शुष्क मुँह ), नरम आहार, ग़रीब oral hygiene and certain medications.
Management is by improving मौखिक hygiene, विशेषकर scraping or brushing the tongue.
The IEEE 1394 interface is a serial bus interface standard for high-speed संचार और isochronous real-time आंकड़ा ट्रांसफ़र.
It was developed in the लेट 1980s और जल्दी 1990s by ठहराना, जो पुकारा it FireWire.
The 1394 interface is comparable to usb, और प्रायः those दो technologies हैं considered together, though USB has more market share.
Apple first शामिल firewire in कुछ of इसके 1999 मॉडल, और सबसे ठहराना कंप्यूटर since the year 2000 have included FireWire ports, though, as of 2013, nothing beyond the 800 version ( IEEE-1394b ).
The interface is भी ज्ञात by the ब्रांड i.link ( सोनी ), और लिंक्स ( Texas Instruments ).
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel scsi in अनेक अनुप्रयोग, क्युकी of निम्नतर क्रियान्वयन लागत और a simplified, more adaptable cabling system.
The 1394 standard also defines a backplane इंटरफ़ेस, हालांकि इस is नहीं as widely used.
IEEE 1394 is the High-Definition Audio-Video Network Alliance ( हाना ) मानक कनेक्शन इंटरफ़ेस लिये a/v ( audio/visual ) component communication and control.
firewire is भी उपलब्धियाँ in बेतार, रेशा optic, and coaxial versions using the isochronous protocols.
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3, 1954 – August 27, 1990 ) थी an अमरीकी guitarist, singer-songwriter, and record producer.
Often referred to by his initials srv, vaughan is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a founding सदस्य और नेता of Double Trouble.
Together with drummer Chris Layton and bassist टॉमी शैनन, वे ignited the ब्लूज़ revival of the 1980s.
With a career spanning seven years, Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently बेची आउट कॉन्सर्ट जबकि उनके एल्बम अक्सर गई gold.
He was born और उठाया in डलास, टेक्सास, और लिये a short period of time lived in Graham, Texas.
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan, vaughan प्रारंभ playing the गिटार at आयु सात और formed अनेक bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs.
At age 17, he dropped out of high school and moved to ऑस्टिन to further pursue उसके musical career, joining groups such as Krackerjack, the Nightcrawlers, and the Cobras.
In 1977, he formed Triple threat revue, a बैंड कि आखिरकार विकसित into दोगुना Trouble and regularly performed around Austin.
In 1982, Vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल performed at the montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland, catching the attention of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne.
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on his upcoming studio album Let 's Dance, जबकि browne offered the बैंड फ़्री उपयोग of उसके निजी स्टुडियो in लॉस एंजिल्स to रिकार्ड an album.
In March 1983, Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by veteran रिकार्ड निर्माता जॉन हैमंड sr. और released उनके डेब्यू एल्बम, टेक्सास Flood in June of that year.
After successful touring, the group released the albums, Could n't स्टैंड the मौसम ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to आत्मा ( 1985 ), the latter of जिससे प्रदर्शित नई keyboardist रीज़ wynans.
हालांकि उसके करियर था progressed सफलतापूर्वक, vaughan checked into a पुनर्वास हॉस्पिटल in Atlanta, Georgia to give up a cocaine and alcohol habit and returned to touring with the band.
In June 1989, In Step was released and earned उन्हें a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन समकालीन ब्लूज़ Performance.
On August 27, 1990, vaughan थी मारे in a हेलीकाप्टर क्रैश following a प्रदर्शन in East Troy, Wisconsin.
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense style was derived इससे a किस्में of musical जाति.
He was influenced by blues संगीतकारों सहित अल्बर्ट किंग, फ्रेडी किंग, ओटिस फटाफट, और muddy Waters, and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack.
His guitar playing reflected the क्लासिक blues and pentatonic scales.
He has received wide critical recognition for his गिटार playing, रैंकिंग at # 6 on रोलिंग पत्थरों सूची of `` 100 महानतम guitarists '' in 2011.
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue थी erected in ऑस्टिन 's ऑडिटोरियम shores park.
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely माना to be एक of the महानतम संगीतकारों to आइये इससे the राज्य of Texas.
GigE redirects here.
For the कैमरा प्रोटोकॉल, देखिए gige vision.
In computer नेटवर्किंग, gigabit ईथरनेट ( gbe or 1 gige ) is a पद describing विभिन्न technologies लिये transmitting ईथरनेट फ्रेम्स at a रेट of a gigabit प्रति दूसरी ( 1,000,000,000 bits per second ), as defined by the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard.
It came into use beginning in 1999, gradually supplanting Fast Ethernet in wired local संजाल, जहाँ it performed considerably तेज़.
The cables and equipment are very similar to previous मानकों और यहूद बहुत आम और किफायती by 2010.
Half-duplex gigabit links connected through hubs are अनुमत by the specification, लकिन full-duplex उपयोग साथ switches is much more common.
Intel PRO/1000 GT पीसीआई संजाल इंटरफ़ेस card
The प्रमुख components of a stamp:
1. चित्र
2. perforations
3. denomination
4. देश name
A postage stamp is a small piece of paper that is purchased and प्रदर्शित on an मद of मेल as प्रमाण of payment of postage.
Typically, stamps are made from special पेपर, साथ a नेशनल नामांकन और denomination ( दाम ) on the face, and a gum adhesive on the reverse side.
Postage stamps are purchased from a postal administration or other प्राधिकृत विक्रेता और हैं प्रयुक्त to अदा लिये the लागत शामिल in चलती मेल as well as other business necessities such as insurance and registration.
The stamp’s shape is usually that of a small rectangle of varying proportions, हालांकि त्रिकोण or अन्य आकार हैं occasionally used.
The stamp is affixed to an envelope or other postal cover ( i.e., पैकेट, बक्सा, mailing बेलन ) कि the ग्राहक wishes to send.
The item is then processed by the postal system, जहाँ a postmark, sometimes ज्ञात as a रद्दीकरण चिह्नित, is प्रायः लागू over the स्टैम्प और cover ; this procedure marks the stamp as used, which prevents its reuse.
The postmark indicates the तिथि और पाइंट of उत्पत्ति of the mailing.
The mailed item is तब वितरित to the पता कि the ग्राहक रै applied to the envelope or cover.
postage stamps have facilitated the delivery of mail since the 1840s.
Before this time, ink and hand-stamps ( hence the शब्द 'stamp ' ), प्रायः बना इससे लकडी or कॉर्क, यहूद प्रायः प्रयुक्त to frank the mail and confirm the payment of postage.
The first adhesive postage stamp, commonly referred to as the पैनी ब्लैक, थी जारी in the संयुक्त किंगडम in 1840.
The invention of the स्टैम्प थी a भाग of the attempt to सुधार और improve the डाक प्रणाली in the संयुक्त किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और Ireland, which in the early 19th century was in disarray and rife with corruption.
वहीँ हैं varying खाते of the inventor or inventors of the stamp.
Before the introduction of postage stamps, mail in the UK was paid for by the recipient, a system that was associated with an irresolvable problem : the costs of delivering mail were not recoverable by the postal सेवा जब प्राप्तकर्ता यहूद असमर्थ or unwilling to अदा लिये वितरित वस्तुएं, और प्रेषकों था no प्रोत्साहन to सीमित the क्रमांक, आकार, or वज़न of वस्तुएं भेजा, whether or नहीं वे would ultimately be paid for.
The postage stamp resolved इस समस्या in a सरल और सुरुचिपूर्ण manner, with the additional benefit of room for an element of beauty to be introduced.
Later related inventions include postal स्टेशनरी ऐसे as prepaid-postage लिफाफे, पोस्ट ताश, lettercards, aerogrammes और wrappers, postage मीटर, and, more recently, specialty boxes and envelopes provided free to the customer by the U.S. postal service for priority or express mailing.
The postage stamp afforded convenience for both the मेलर और डाक officials, अधिक efficiently बरामद लागत लिये the डाक सेवा, और ultimately resulted in a better, faster postal system.
With the conveniences stamps offered, उनके उपयोग resulted in greatly increased mailings during the 19th and 20th centuries.
Postage stamps during this era were the most popular way of paying for mail, but by the end of the 20th century यहूद rapidly होने आत by the उपयोग of metered postage और बल्क mailing by businesses. )
The same result with respect to communications by निजी पार्टियों occurred over the पिछला दशक of the 20th सदी और the पहला दशक of the 21st due to घटती cost of long distance telephone communications and the development and explosive spread of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the Internet ) and bill paying systems had.
As postage stamps with their engraved imagery began to appear on a फैली आधार, historians and collectors began to take notice.
The study of postage stamps and their उपयोग is referred to as philately.
स्टैम्प collecting can be दोनो a शौक और a रूप of ऐतिहासिक पढ़ाई और सन्दर्भ, as government-issued postage stamps and their mailing systems have always been involved with the history of nations.
The University of Alabama at Birmingham ( UAB ) is a public university in Birmingham in the u.S. राज्य of अलबामा.
Developing from an extension center established in 1936, the institution became an autonomous संस्था in 1969 और is आज एक of तीन संस्थानों in the विश्वविद्यालयों of अलबामा प्रणाली.
UAB offers over 140 कार्यक्रम of पढ़ाई in 12 अकादमिक विभाजन अग्रणी to स्नातक 's, निपुण 's, डॉक्टरेट, और पेशेवर डिग्री in the सोशल और behavioral sciences, the उदार कला, business, education, engineering, and health-related fields such as medicine, dentistry, optometry, nursing, and public health.
The school is अत्यधिक प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके चिकित्सा शोध and natural sciences programs.
The UAB Health System, one of the largest अकादमिक चिकित्सा centers in the संयुक्त राज्य, is संबद्ध with the university.
UAB Hospital प्रायोजकों रेसिडेंसी कार्यक्रम in विभिन्न चिकित्सा specialties, सहित internal medicine, neurology, surgery, radiology, and anesthesiology.
UAB हॉस्पिटल is the तभी acs सत्यापित स्तर i आघात center in Alabama, as rated by the American College of Surgeons Trauma Program.
UAB is the state 's largest नियोक्ता, साथ अधिक than 18,000 संकाय और स्टाफ और over 53,000 कार्य at the university and in the health system.
An estimated 10 percent of the कार्य in the birmingham-hoover महानगर क्षेत्रफल और 1 in 33 कार्य in the state of Alabama are directly or indirectly related to UAB.
The university 's overall annual आर्थिक प्रभाव थी अनुमानित to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010.
In the fall of 2012, the विश्वविद्यालयों of अलबामा at बर्मिंघम नामांकित 17,999 students from more than 110 countries, including 1,605 freshmen.
There are plans to commence with an `` आक्रामक '' विकास in नामांकन at UAB.
The current UAB अध्यक्ष is dr. रे L. watts.
Tofu, also called bean curd, is a food बना by coagulating सोया रस और तब दबाने the resulting curds into soft white blocks.
it is a घटक in अनेक ईस्ट Asian and Southeast Asian cuisines.
There are many अलग किस्में of टोफू, सहित भैस टोफू और tofu that has been processed in some way.
Tofu has a subtle स्वाद और can be प्रयुक्त in savory and sweet dishes.
It is प्रायः seasoned or marinated to suit the dish.
Tofu originated in प्राचीन चीन कुछ 2,000 years ago.
Chinese legend ascribes its आविष्कार to प्रिंस लियू an ( चाइनीज : 劉安 liú Ān, 179–122 BC ).
टोफू और इसके उत्पादन तकनीक यहूद introduced into Korea and then Japan during the Nara period.
It spread into other parts of ईस्ट एशिया as खूब.
This spread likely coincided with the spread of Buddhism क्युकी it is an महत्वपूर्ण सोर्स of प्रोटीन in the शाकाहारी diet of East Asian Buddhism.
Li shizhen in the मिंग राजवंश वर्णित a method of making tofu in Bencao Gangmu.
Tofu has a low calorie count, अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts of प्रोटीन, and little fat.
It is high in iron and depending on the coagulant used in निर्माण, may भी be ऊँची in कैल्सियम and/or मैग्नीशियम.
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a common chimpanzee, known for being the one-time pet of अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार माइकल जैक्सन, जो खरीदा the primate इससे a टेक्सास शोध facility in the early 1980s.
The animal was a frequent travel companion to the singer, whose attachment to the animal led to media mockery and, among other factors, to a पब्लिक बोध of जैक्सन as an eccentric.
During the Bad World Tour, लिये उदाहरण, जैक्सन brought बुलबुले साथ him to Japan, where they both drank tea with the mayor of Osaka.
बुलबुले थी initially रखा at the Jackson family 's home in Encino, Los Angeles, but was moved to Neverland Ranch in 1988.
There, he slept in a crib in जैक्सन 's बेडरूम, प्रयुक्त the सिंगर 's प्रसाधन, और ate candy in the Neverland movie theater.
In 2003 the public learned that, like all captive chimpanzees, Bubbles had matured into a large and आक्रामक वयस्क chimp unsuitable as a साथी एनिमल.
He was sent to a कैलिफ़ोर्निया एनिमल प्रशिक्षक, where he was reported to have attempted suicide.
When the प्रशिक्षक shut bas उसके आपरेशन in 2004, बुलबुले थी स्थानांतरित to the बीच for Great Apes, a sanctuary in Wauchula, Florida, where he has lived since 2005.
चिंतन हैं an अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड इससे teignmouth, देवों, which formed in 1994.
The band consists of school friends Matthew Bellamy ( lead vocals, सीसे गिटार, पियानो, keyboards, keytar ), क्रिस्टोफर wolstenholme ( बास, vocals, keyboards, rhythm guitar, harmonica ) and Dominic Howard ( drums, percussion, synthesisers, sampling ).
Since the release of उनके 2006 एल्बम ब्लैक छेद और खुलासे, keyboardist and percussionist Morgan Nicholls has performed live with the band.
Muse are known लिये उनके ऊर्जावान और हद सजीव प्रदर्शन और उनके संलयन of अनेक म्यूज़िक जाति, सहित स्पेस चट्टान, प्रगतिशील rock, alternative rock, heavy metal, classical music and electronica.
Muse have released छह स्टुडियो एल्बम : showbiz ( 1999 ), उत्पत्ति of सममिति ( 2001 ), absolution ( 2003 ), Black Holes and Revelations ( 2006 ), The Resistance ( 2009 ) and The 2nd Law ( 2012 ).
They have also issued three live albums, Hullabaloo Soundtrack ( 2002 ), जिससे is भी a संकलन of b-sides, absolution दौरे ( 2005 ), and HAARP ( 2008 ), which documents the band 's performances at Wembley Stadium in 2007.
Black Holes and Revelations earned the बैंड a पारा पुरस्कार नामांकन और a तीसरा प्लेस समाप्त in the NME Albums of the Year list for 2006.
Muse have also won a collection of म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार throughout उनके इतिहास, सहित पाँच एमटीवी यूरोपीय म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, छह q पुरस्कार, आठ nme पुरस्कार, दो ब्रिट पुरस्कार —winning `` Best British Live Act '' twice, an MTV Video Music Award, four Kerrang !
पुरस्कार और an अमरीकी Music Award.
They were also nominated for five Grammy Awards, of जिससे वे जीती बेहतरीन चट्टान एल्बम, लिये उनके पांचवां स्टुडियो एल्बम The Resistance ( 2009 ).
Muse have बेची over 15 लाख एल्बम worldwide.
Bloemfontein (, ; Dutch for `` fountain of flowers '' ) is the पूंजी नगर of the फ़्री राज्य प्रांत of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी ; और, as the न्यायिक पूंजी of the स्वदेश, एक of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's तीन नेशनल राजधानी – the अन्य दो होने केप कस्बा, the विधान पूंजी, and Pretoria, the administrative capital.
Bloemfontein is popularly and poetically known as `` the city of गुलाब ``, owing to the प्रचुरता of ये पुष्प और the सालाना rose festival held there.
The नगर 's sesotho नाम is mangaung, अर्थ `` place of cheetahs `` and it has been included in the Mangaung Local Municipality since 2000.
bloemfontein is situated on शुष्क घासभूमि at, at an altitude of above sea level.
The city is home to 369,568 निवासियों, जबकि the mangaung लोकल नगरपालिका has a population of 645,455.
जहाँ do we आइये From ?
कया हैं We ?
जहाँ हैं We Going ?
One of Post-Impressionist पॉल gauguin 's सबसे प्रसिद्ध paintings.
the अर्थ of जीवन is a philosophical question concerning the significance of life or existence in general.
It can also be expressed in different forms, ऐसे as `` क्यों हैं we यहाँ ? ``, `` कया is जीवन सब परिचय ? ``, and `` What is the purpose of existence ? ''
It has been the subject of much philosophical, वैज्ञानिक, और theological अटकलें throughout history.
वहीँ have महरूम a विशाल क्रमांक of प्रस्तावित answers to these questions from many different cultural and ideological backgrounds.
The अर्थ of जीवन is in the philosophical और धार्मिक conceptions of अस्तित्व, सोशल ties, चेतना, और सुख, और सीमायें on अनेक अन्य मुद्दे, ऐसे as सांकेतिक अर्थ, सत्तामीमांसा, value, purpose, ethics, good and evil, free will, the existence of one or multiple Gods, conceptions of God, the soul, and the afterlife.
Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related अनुभवजन्य तथ्य परिचय the ब्रह्मांड, exploring the कॉन्टेक्स्ट और पैरामीटर्स concerning the 'how ' of life.
Science also studies and can provide recommendations for the pursuit of well-being और a सम्बन्धित धारणा of morality.
An alternative, humanistic approach मुद्राएँ the सवाल `` कया is the अर्थ of my life ? ''
The value of the question pertaining to the purpose of जीवन may coincide साथ the उपलब्धि of परम वास्तविकता, or a feeling of oneness, or even a feeling of sacredness.
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides the voices of Peter Griffin, stewie griffin, ब्रायन griffin, और ग्लेन कीचड़.
Family Guy is an अमरीकी एनिमेटेड sitcom कि सुविधाएँ पाँच प्रमुख आवाज़ अभिनेताओं, और numerous नियमित डाल और recurring guest stars.
The principal voice cast consists of दिखाएँ निर्माता सेठ macfarlane, एलेक्स borstein, सेठ ग्रीन, mila kunis ( जो replaced लेसी Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now, the new actor Beau Osborne.
Recurring voice actors शामिल पैट्रिक warburton, आदम वेस्ट, जॉन G. ब्रेनन, निकोल सुलीवान and Jennifer Tilly, and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller, Charles Durning, Rush Limbaugh, and Phil LaMarr.
Many डाल सदस्यों provide आवाज़ें लिये अनेक characters.
The voice actors, in portraying the various अक्षर personalities on the दिखाएँ, चित्रण प्रेरणा इससे हस्तियाँ and pop culture.
Family Guy characters have been played by more than एक कर्ता, बाद सदस्यों of the दिखाएँ बाएँ the श्रेणी or had conflicting obligations.
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane has also won an Emmy Award for Outstanding voice-over प्रदर्शन और an एनी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन आवाज़ एक्टिंग in an एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न उत्पादन, हालांकि no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series.
1911 उदाहरण by Edmund Dulac
`` The Princess and the मटर '' ( ; शाब्दिक अनुवाद : `` the राजकुमारी on the Pea '' ) is a literary fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen about a young woman whose royal identity is established by a test of her physical sensitivity.
The tale was first published with three अन्य by andersen in an inexpensive पुस्तिका on 8 may 1835 in Copenhagen by C.A. Reitzel.
Andersen had heard the story as a child, and it likely has its source in folk material, possibly originating from Sweden as it is अनजान in the डैनिश मौखिक परंपरा.
Neither `` The Princess and the Pea '' nor Andersen 's other tales of 1835 were well received by डैनिश आलोचकों, जो disliked उनके कैज़ुअल, chatty स्टाइल, और उनके lack of morals.
In 1959 `` The Princess and the Pea '' was adapted to the musical स्टेज in a उत्पादन पुकारा एकबार upon a गद्दा अभिनीत Carol Burnett.
German Americans ( ) are citizens of the United States who यहूद either born in जर्मनी or हैं of जर्मनी ancestry.
They comprise about 50 million people, making them the largest ancestry group ahead of आयरिश अमेरिकी, अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी और अंग्रेज़ी अमेरिकी.
They comprise about 1/3 of the German diaspora सब over the संसार.
None of the German राज्य था नई संसार colonies.
Not until the 1670s did the पहला significant समूह of जर्मनी आप्रवासियों arrive in the British colonies, settling primarily in New York and Pennsylvania.
आव्रजन जारी in बहुत विशाल संख्याएँ दौरान the 19th century, with some eight million arrivals from Germany.
They were pulled by the attractions of land and धार्मिक स्वतंत्रता, और धकेल आउट of यूरोपीय by shortages of land and religious or political oppression.
Many arrived seeking religious or political स्वतंत्रता, अन्य लिये आर्थिक अवसर वृहद than those in यूरोपीय, और अन्य simply for the chance to start fresh in the New World.
The arrivals before 1850 यहूद ज़्यादातर किसानो जो sought आउट the most productive land, where their intensive farming techniques would pay off.
After 1840, many came to शहरों, जहाँ `` germania '' —german-speaking districts—soon emerged.
German Americans established the first kindergartens in the संयुक्त राज्य, introduced the क्रिसमस पेड़ परंपरा, और originated लोकप्रिय अमरीकी foods such as hot dogs and hamburgers.
German American celebrations are held throughout the country, one of the most well-known होने the german-american steuben परेड in New York City, held every third Saturday in September.
There are also major annual events in Chicago, सिनसिनाटी, मिल्वौकी, पिट्सबर्ग, St. Louis and other cities.
Like अनेक अन्य आप्रवासियों कि आए to the संयुक्त राज्य, an overwhelming क्रमांक of लोगों of German or partial German descent have essentially become Americanized.
The Preamble to the United States संविधान is a ब्रैड परिचयात्मक बयान of the Constitution 's fundamental purposes and guiding principles.
It states in general terms, and courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of, the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning and कया वे hoped the संविधान होता achieve as it pertains to सब of the लोगों of the संयुक्त राज्य.
As the phrase, `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates इससे the लोगों of the संयुक्त राज्य और it सेट into गति a सवाल as it pertains to कि विशाल जनसांख्यिकी concerning the व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों और समता among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy.
The history of the अंतरजाल began साथ the विकास of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कंप्यूटर in the 1950s.
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a संदेश थी भेजा over the arpanet इससे कंप्यूटर विज्ञान प्राध्यापक लियोनार्ड kleinrock 's प्रयोगशाला at विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया, लॉस एंजिल्स ( UCLA ), after the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ).
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET, Mark I at NPL in the UK, CYCLADES, Merit Network, Tymnet, and Telenet, were विकसित in the लेट 1960s और जल्दी 1970s using a किस्में of protocols.
The ARPANET in particular led to the विकास of प्रोटोकॉल लिये internetworking, in जिससे अनेक पृथक networks could be joined together into a network of networks.
In 1982, the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized, and नतीजतन, the अवधारणा of a world-wide संजाल of interconnected tcp/ip संजाल, पुकारा the अंतरजाल, was introduced.
Access to the ARPANET was विस्तारित in 1981 जब the नेशनल विज्ञान न्यास ( nsf ) विकसित the कंप्यूटर विज्ञान संजाल ( csnet ) and again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations.
Commercial अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps ) began to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990.
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 जब nsfnet थी decommissioned, निकालना the पिछला प्रतिबंध on the उपयोग of the Internet to carry commercial traffic.
Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce, including the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail, instant messaging, Voice over Internet प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) `` फोन काल्स '', two-way इंटरैक्टिव वीडियो काल्स, और the संसार चौड़ी वेब साथ इसके चर्चा forums, ब्लॉग, सोशल नेटवर्किंग, और ऑनलाइन खरीदारी sites.
The research and education community continues to develop and use advanced संजाल ऐसे as nsf 's बहुत ऊँची गति रीढ़ संजाल सेवा ( vbns ), Internet2, and National LambdaRail.
Increasing amounts of आंकड़ा हैं transmitted at उच्चतर और उच्चतर speeds over fiber optic networks operating at 1-Gbit/s, 10-Gbit/s, or more.
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way दूरसंचार संजाल in the साल 1993, already 51 % by 2000, और अधिक than 97 % of the telecommunicated सूचना by 2007.
Today the अंतरजाल continues to grow, चलित by कभी वृहद amounts of online information, commerce, entertainment, and social networking.
Southwest एयरलाइंस co. ( ) is a प्रमुख u.S. एयरलाइन और the संसार 's largest low-cost carrier, headquartered in Dallas, Texas.
It was established in 1967 और अपनाया इसके current name in 1971.
The airline has more than 46,000 employees and operates अधिक than 3,400 फ़्लाइट प्रति day.
As of June 5, 2011, it carries the most घरेलू यात्री of कोई U.S. airline.
As of April 2013, Southwest एयरलाइंस रै अनुसूचित सेवा to 84 गंतव्यों in 41 राज्य and Puerto Rico.
Southwest Airlines has solely संचालित बोइंग 737s, मगर लिये a few सालो in the 1970s and 1980s, when it operated Boeing 727s.
As of August 2012, Southwest is the largest operator of the 737 विश्वव्यापी साथ over 550 in सेवा, प्रत्येक ऑपरेटिंग an औसत of छह फ़्लाइट प्रति day.
In May 2011, the airline acquired airtran एयरवेज़, साथ संयोजन of the carriers expected to be complete by 2014.
On March 1, 2012, the company was issued a single ऑपरेटिंग प्रमाणपत्र, technically becoming one airline.
Rolling Rock is a 4.6 % abv पाले lager शुभारम्भ in 1939 by the Latrobe Brewing Company.
Although founded as a local beer in पश्चिमी पेन्सिलवेनिया, it थी marketed aggressively और आखिरकार became a national product.
The brand was sold to anheuser-busch of st. लुई, मिसौरी, in मिड 2006, which transferred brewing operations to New Jersey.
Benedict XVI (,, ; born जोसेफ aloisius ratzinger on 16 अप्रैल 1927 ) is Pope emeritus of the Catholic Church.
He served as पोप इससे 2005 to 2013.
In that position, he was दोनो the नेता of the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और Sovereign of the Vatican City State.
Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave, celebrated his Papal Inauguration Mass on 24 April 2005, and took कब्ज़ा of उसके गिरजाघर, the archbasilica of st. जॉन lateran, on 7 May 2005.
ordained as a पुजारी in 1951 in उसके देशी बायर्न, ratzinger स्थापित खुद as a highly regarded university theologian by the late 1950s and was appointed a full professor in 1958.
After a long career as an academic, serving as a professor of theology at several German universities—the last being the University of Regensburg, where he served as Vice President of the university in 1976 and 1977—he was नियुक्त archbishop of म्यूनिख और freising और कार्डिनल by पोप पॉल vi in 1977, an unusual promotion for someone with little pastoral experience.
In 1981, he settled in रोम जब he became prefect of the सभा लिये the Doctrine of the Faith, one of the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia.
From 2002 until his election as पोप, he थी भी डीन of the कॉलेज of कार्डिनल्स, और as such, the primus inter pares among the cardinals.
Prior to becoming pope, he was `` a major figure on the Vatican स्टेज लिये a क्वार्टर of a सदी '' as `` एक of the सबसे आदरणीय, influential और विवादास्पद सदस्यों of the कॉलेज of कार्डिनल्स '' ; he था an influence `` दूसरी to none when it came to setting church priorities and directions '' as one of Pope John Paul II 's closest confidants.
He was originally a उदार theologian, लकिन अपनाया conservative views after 1968.
His prolific कृतियाँ बचाव परंपरागत कैथोलिक doctrine and values.
During his papacy, Benedict XVI advocated a वापसी to आधारभूत ईसाई मान to काउंटर the increased secularisation of many Western countries.
He views relativism 's denial of objective truth, and the denial of moral truths in particular, as the central problem of the 21st century.
He taught the importance of both the Catholic गिरिजाघर और an समझना of God 's redemptive love.
Pope Benedict also revived a number of traditions including elevating the tridentine द्रव्यमान to a अधिक prominent स्थिति.
He renewed the relationship between the Catholic Church and आर्ट, देखने the उपयोग of सौंदर्य as a पाथ to the पवित्र, प्रचारित the उपयोग of लैटिन, और reintroduced परंपरागत papal garments, लिये जिससे reason he was called `` the pope of aesthetics ''.
He has been described as `` the प्रमुख बौद्धिक फ़ोर्स in the गिरिजाघर '' since the mid-1980s.
Several of Pope Benedict 's students from his academic career are also prominent churchmen today और confidantes of उसे, notably Christoph Schönborn.
On 11 फ़रवरी 2013, पोप बेनेडिक्ट घोषित उसके इस्तीफा in a वाक in लैटिन पहले the कार्डिनल्स, citing a `` lack of strength of mind and body '' due to his advanced age.
His इस्तीफा became प्रभावी on 28 February 2013.
He is the first pope to resign since Pope Gregory XII in 1415, और the पहला to do so on उसके अपना पहल चूंकि Pope Celestine V in 1294.
As pope emeritus, Benedict retains the style of His Holiness, और the शीर्षक of पोप, और होगा continue to पोशाक in the papal colour of white.
He was succeeded by पोप फ्रांसिस on 13 कूच 2013, and he moved into the newly renovated Mater Ecclesiae monastery for his retirement on 2 May 2013..
Pocket stereoscope साथ असली test image.
Used by military to जाँचें stereoscopic pairs of aerial छायाचित्र.
View of बोस्टन, c. 1860 ; an जल्दी stereoscopic कार्ड for viewing a scene from nature
Kaiser-Panorama consisted of a multi-station viewing apparatus and sets of stereo slides.
patented by A. fuhrmann around 1890.
Company of ladies watching stereoscopic छायाचित्र, पेंटिंग by Jacob Spoel, before 1868.
A बहुत जल्दी चित्रण of लोगों using a stereoscope.
Stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a तकनीक लिये बनाना or बढ़ाना the भ्रम of depth in an image by means of stereopsis for binocular vision.
The word stereoscopy derives इससे the यूनानी `` στερεός '' ( stereos ), `` कड़, ठोस '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ), `` to look '', `` to see ''.
Most stereoscopic methods present two offset बिंब separately to the बाएँ and right eye of the viewer.
ये two-dimensional बिंब हैं तब संयुक्त in the brain to give the perception of 3D depth.
This technique is विशिष्ट इससे 3d प्रदर्शक कि प्रदर्शक an चित्र in तीन पूरा आयाम, allowing the observer to increase information about the 3-dimensional objects being displayed by head and eye movements.
John Adams ( October 30, 1735 ( O.S. अक्तूबर 19, 1735 ) – जुलाई 4, 1826 ) थी the दूसरी अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1797–1801 ), having earlier served as the first vice president of the United States.
An American Founding Father, he was a statesman, diplomat, and a अग्रणी एडवोकेट of अमरीकी स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन.
Well educated, he was an Enlightenment political theorist जो प्रचारित republicanism और लिखा prolifically परिचय उसके प्रायः seminal विचार, दोनो in प्रकाशित works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers.
Adams came to prominence in the जल्दी चरण of the American Revolution.
A lawyer and public figure in Boston, as a delegate from Massachusetts to the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस, he निभाई a अग्रणी भूमिका in persuading कॉंग्रेस to declare independence.
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of स्वतंत्रता in 1776, और थी इसके प्राथमिक एडवोकेट in the कॉंग्रेस.
Later, as a diplomat in Europe, he helped negotiate the eventual सलाम सन्धि साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, और थी जिम्मेदार लिये obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers.
A political theorist and historian, Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, which साथ साथ उसके पहले विचार on सरकारी, बहकावे अमरीकी राजनैतिक विचार.
One of his greatest roles was as a न्यायधीश of अक्षर : in 1775, he मनोनीत जार्ज वॉशिंगटन to be commander-in-chief, और 25 सालो later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States.
Adams ' revolutionary श्रेय secured उसे दो शर्तें as जार्ज वॉशिंगटन 's vice president and his own election in 1796 as the second president.
During his one term, he encountered ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian Republicans, as well as the प्रबल गुट in उसके अपना federalist पार्टी led by उसके कड़वा दुश्मन सिकंदर Hamilton.
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts, and built up the फौज और नेवी विशेषकर in the फेस of an undeclared नवल युद्ध ( पुकारा the `` quasi-war `` ) with France, 1798–1800.
The major accomplishment of his presidency was his शांतिपूर्ण रेज़ोल्यूशन of the विरोध in the फेस of हैमिल्टन 's opposition.
In 1800, एडम्स थी पराजित लिये re-election by थामस Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts.
He later resumed his दोस्ती साथ जेफरसन.
He and his wife, Abigail एडम्स, संस्थापित an संपन्नता परिवार लकीर of राजनेता, राजनयिकों, और इतिहासकारों now referred to as the Adams political family.
Adams थी the पिता of जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स, the sixth President of the United States.
His achievements have प्राप्त वृहद मान्यता in आधुनिक टाइम्स, हालांकि उसके contributions were not initially as celebrated as those of other Founders.
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the भवन कि आखिरकार became known as the White House.
The United States ten-dollar विधेयक ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of संयुक्त राज्य करेंसी.
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ), Alexander Hamilton, is currently प्रदर्शित on the obverse of the विधेयक, जबकि the u.S. राजकोष Building is featured on the reverse.
( हैमिल्टन is एक of दो non-presidents featured on currently issued U.S. bills.
The other is बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन, on the $ 100 bill.
Hamilton is one of only four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who was not born in the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य, as he थी इससे the वेस्ट इंडीज.
The others are : Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ) ; जार्ज meade, स्पेन ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष नोट ) ; और Robert Morris, England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ).
In addition, Kamehameha I, appears on the 2008 हवाई राज्य क्वार्टर. )
All $ 10 bills जारी आज हैं संघीय Reserve Notes.
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 10 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 18 महीने पहले it is replaced due to wear.
लगभग 6 % of सब us banknotes मुद्रित in 2009 were $ 10 bills.
टेन डालर बिल्स हैं वितरित by Federal Reserve Banks in yellow straps.
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of हैमिल्टन कि belongs to the पोर्ट्रेट संग्रहण of नई यॉर्क नगर Hall.
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait faces to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a portrait of Woodrow विल्सन facing to the बाएँ, लकिन थी प्रयुक्त तभी लिये intra-government ट्रांजेक्शन ).
A rider on a Yamaha Waverunner XL performing a high-speed फेरे.
A jetboat is a boat propelled by a जेट of जल ejected इससे the वापस of the craft.
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat that uses a propeller in the water below or पीछे the नाव, a jetboat draws the जल इससे अंतर्गत the नाव into a पंप अंदर the boat, then expels it through a nozzle at the stern.
Jetboats were originally designed by Sir William Hamilton ( who developed a waterjet in 1954 ) लिये आपरेशन in the fast-flowing और उथले नदियाँ of नई जीलैंड, specifically to overcome the problem of propellers striking rocks in such waters.
Previous attempts at waterjet propulsion had very short lifetimes, generally due to the inefficient डिज़ाइन of the इकाई और the फैक्ट कि वे offered few लाभ over conventional propellers.
Unlike these previous waterjet developments, ऐसे as campini 's और the hanley hydrojet, हैमिल्टन had a specific need for a propulsion system to operate in very-shallow water, and the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution.
From this, the लोकप्रियता of the जेट ईकाई और jetboat increased rapidly.
Through further developments, it was found the waterjet offered several other advantages over propellers लिये a चौड़ी दायरा of पोत प्रकार, और as ऐसे, waterjets हैं प्रयुक्त widely आज लिये अनेक high-speed बरतन, सहित यात्री ferries, rescue craft, patrol boats and offshore supply vessels.
jetboats हैं अत्यधिक maneuverable, और अनेक can, इससे पूरा गति, be reversed and brought to a stop within little more than their own length, in a maneuver known as a `` crash stop ''.
The well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin '' is a high-speed maneuvre where the नाव 's इंजन throttle is काटें, the परिचालन is turned sharply और the throttle खोली again, causing the नाव to स्पिन जल्दी around साथ a large spray of water.
There is no अभियान्त्रिकी सीमा to the आकार of jetboats, हालांकि the वैध of their use depends a lot on the type of application.
Classic prop-drives are generally more efficient and economical at low speeds, up to about, but as boat speed increases beyond this, the extra hull resistance generated by struts, rudders, shafts ( इत्यादि. ) अर्थात् waterjets हैं अधिक कुशल in the 20-50 गांठ दायरा ( up to ).
Also, in परिस्थितियों साथ बहुत विशाल propellers turning at slow speeds ( such as tug boats ), the equivalent size waterjet would be too big to be practical.
For these reasons, the vast majority of waterjet इकाई हैं संस्थापित in high-speed बरतन और in particular परिस्थितियों जहाँ उथले draught, maneuverability, and load flexibility are main concerns.
The biggest jet-driven vessels are मिला in सैन्य उपयोग or the high-speed passenger/car ferry industry.
दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's s ( लगभग long ) are the biggest jet-propelled vessels so far.
Even these german-built बरतन हैं सक्षम of performing `` crash stops ''.
uveitis is broadly पारिभाषित as inflammation of the uvea.
The uvea consists of the middle, pigmented, vascular structures of the नजर और शामिल the आईरिस, ciliary body, and choroid.
Uveitis requires an urgent referral and thorough परिक्षा by an ophthalmologist or optometrist along with urgent treatment to control the inflammation.
Eric `` e. ''
Murphy is a fictional character on the comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी अनुगामी.
He is निभाई by केविन connolly.
the जगमगाता is a 1980 मनोवैज्ञानिक हॉरर फिल्मी उत्पादित और निर्देशित by स्टेनली Kubrick, co-written with novelist Diane Johnson, and starring Jack Nicholson, Shelley Duvall, Scatman Crothers, and Danny Lloyd.
The film is based on the स्टीफन किंग अनोखा the जगमगाता.
A writer, जोकर torrance, takes a जॉब as an off-season caretaker at an isolated hotel.
His young son possesses मानसिक abilities और is समर्थ to see things from the past and future, such as the ghosts who inhabit the hotel.
Soon after settling in, the family is trapped in the hotel by a snowstorm, and Jack gradually becomes influenced by a अलौकिक उपस्थिति ; he उतरता into दीवानगी और कोशिशें to हत्या उसके बीवी and son.
Unlike previous kubrick films, जिससे विकसित an दर्शक धीरे by भवन on word-of-mouth, The Shining was released as a mass-market film, opening at first in just two cities on Memorial Day, then nationwide a month later.
Although initial response to the film was mixed, later critical assessment was more favorable and it is now viewed as a क्लासिक of the हॉरर विधा.
Film director Martin Scorsese, writing in The रोज़ जानवर, क्रमित it as एक of the 11 scariest हॉरर फिल्मों of all time.
Film critics, film students, और kubrick 's निर्माता, जन harlan, have remarked on the विशाल influence the film has had on popular culture.
The आरंभिक यूरोपीय रिलीज of the जगमगाता थी 25 मिनट्स shorter than the American version, achieved by removing most of the scenes taking place outside the environs of the hotel.
Patio कोला बोतल
आँगन आहार कोला थी a brand of diet soda introduced by Pepsi in 1963.
It was created in response to Diet Rite कोला, जिससे थी the पहला आहार कोला on the market.
Fitness promoter Debbie Drake थी आँगन आहार कोला 's प्रवक्ता.
In 1964, Patio released नारंगी, अंगूर, और रूट बियर जायका.
This flavor line was not meant to compete with brands like Orange crush, लकिन बल्कि भरण आउट the लकीर.
Patio sodas were उपलब्धियाँ in the cold-bottle मार्केट : किराना और mom-and-pop stores.
विज्ञापन लिये आँगन थी comparatively scarce ; at the time, bottlers were regionally franchised, and related advertising was necessarily local.
in 1964, आँगन आहार कोला became Diet Pepsi.
the newly ब्रांडेड आहार सोडा थी advertised alongside पेप्सी साथ the टैगलाइन `` Pepsi either way '', which replaced the slogan `` Dances with flavor ''.
The short life span of Patio Diet cola makes it a ग्रेट जोड लिये बोतल collectors.
Most of the बाकी आँगन लकीर of जायका यहूद phased आउट by the जल्दी 1970s, while a few survived until the mid 70s
Infrastructure is basic शारीरिक और organizational structures needed लिये the आपरेशन of a समाज or एंटरप्राइज़, or the services and facilities necessary for an economy to function.
It can be generally defined as the set of interconnected संरचनात्मक तत्व कि provide framework supporting an entire structure of development.
It is an महत्वपूर्ण पद लिये judging a country or region 's development.
The पद typically refers to the तकनीकी structures कि support a समाज, ऐसे as सड़कें, पुलों, जल सप्लाई, sewers, विद्युत ग्रिड, दूरसंचार, and so forth, and can be defined as `` the physical components of interrelated systems providing commodities and services essential to enable, sustain, or enhance societal living conditions. ''
Viewed functionally, infrastructure facilitates the production of goods and सेवाएं, और भी the वितरण of समाप्त उत्पाद to बाज़ार, as खूब as मौलिक सोशल सेवाएं ऐसे as schools and hospitals ; for example, roads enable the transport of raw materials to a factory.
In military parlance, the term refers to the buildings and permanent installations necessary for the support, redeployment, और आपरेशन of सैन्य forces.
to मेक it सरल, अवसंरचना is anything that is needed everyday, an everyday item.
A graphical representation of the आदर्श इंसान karyotype
mitochondrial डीएनए.
Human genetic variation is the genetic मतभेद दोनो भीतर और among populations.
There may be अनेक विसंगतियाँ of any given gene in the human population ( genes ), leading to polymorphism.
Many genes are not बहुरूपी, अर्थ कि तभी a सिंगल allele is उपस्थित in the जनसांख्यिकी : the जीन is then said to be fixed.
No two humans are genetically एकसमान.
भी monozygotic जुड़वा, जो develop इससे एक zygote, have infrequent genetic differences due to mutations occurring during development and gene copy number variation.
Differences between individuals, even closely सम्बन्धित individuals, हैं the कुंजी to तकनीकों ऐसे as genetic fingerprinting.
alleles occur at अलग बारंबारता in different human populations, with populations that are more geographically and ancestrally remote tending to differ more.
Causes of मतभेद between individuals शामिल the एक्सचेंज of genes during meiosis and various mutational events.
There are at least two reasons why जेनेटिक विभिन्नता exists between populations.
Natural selection may confer an अनुकूली लाभ to individuals in a विशिष्ट environment if an allele provides a competitive advantage.
Alleles under selection are likely to occur तभी in those भौगोलिक regions जहाँ they confer an advantage.
The second main cause of जेनेटिक विभिन्नता is due to the ऊँची उपाधि of neutrality of most mutations.
Most mutations do not appear to have कोई चयनात्मक प्रभाव एक रास्ता or the other on the organism.
The main cause is genetic drift, इस is the प्रभाव of यादृच्छिक परिवर्तन in the gene pool.
In humans, founder effect and past small population size ( increasing the likelihood of जेनेटिक बहाव ) may have था an महत्वपूर्ण influence in neutral differences between populations.
The theory that humans recently migrated आउट of अफ़्रीकी supports this.
The study of human जेनेटिक विभिन्नता रै दोनो विकासवादी significance and medical applications.
It can help वैज्ञानिकों समझे प्राचीन इंसान जनसांख्यिकी migrations as well as how different human groups are biologically related to one another.
For medicine, study of human genetic variation may be महत्वपूर्ण क्युकी कुछ disease-causing alleles occur अधिक प्रायः in लोगों इससे specific geographic regions.
New findings show that each इंसान रै on औसत 60 नई mutations compared to their parents.
Apart from mutations, many जीनों कि may have aided इंसानो in ancient times plague humans today.
For example, it is suspected that genes that allow humans to more efficiently प्रक्रम खाना हैं those कि मेक लोगों susceptible to obesity and diabetes today.
Tea Party प्रदर्शनकारियों on the वेस्ट लॉन of the u.S. कैपिटल और the नेशनल मॉल at the Taxpayer March on Washington on September 12, 2009.
The Tea Party movement is an American political movement that advocates strict adherence to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, reducing u.S. सरकारी बिता और taxes, and reduction of the U.S. national debt and federal budget deficit.
The movement has been called partly रूढ़िवादी, partly libertarian, and partly populist.
The movement has प्रायोजित विरोध और समर्थित राजनैतिक candidates since 2009.
The name of the movement is निकला इससे the बोस्टन चाय पार्टी of 1773, an iconic इवेंट in American history.
Anti-tax protesters in the United States have प्रायः referred to the असली बोस्टन चाय पार्टी for inspiration.
References to the Boston Tea Party यहूद भाग of कर दिन विरोध आयोजित throughout the 1990s and earlier.
By 2001, a custom had developed among some conservative कार्यकर्ताओं of mailing चाय बैग to विधायक और अन्य officials as a symbolic act.
The currencies of Puerto Rico closely follow the ऐतिहासिक विकास of प्यूर्टो रीको.
As a colony of स्पेन और the संयुक्त राज्य, प्यूर्टो रीको थी granted the उपयोग of दोनो विदेशी and provincial currencies.
Following the Spanish colonization in 1502, प्यूर्टो रीको became an important port, with its own supply of gold.
However, as the mineral reserves ran खाली भीतर the सदी, the द्वीपसमूह 's economy suffered.
The स्पेनी क्राउन जारी the situado mexicano, जिससे meant कि a semi-regular shipment of gold from the Viceroyalty of New Spain would be sent to the island, as a way to provide economic support.
Between 1636 and 1637, फिलिप iv of स्पेन imposed a कर जिससे था to be paid using a revenue stamp.
Inspired by this, Puerto Rico began producing banknotes in 1766, बनने the पहला उपनिवेश to छपाई 8- रियल banknotes in the Spanish Empire and which in the Spanish government 's approval of subsequent issues.
The situado was discontinued during the 19th सदी, बनाना an आर्थिक संकट, as a परिणाम of मैक्सिको gaining इसके स्वतंत्रता इससे Spain.
Salvador Meléndez Bruna, the colonial governor in office, ordered the issue of provincial banknotes, बनाना the प्यूर्टो rican पेसो.
however, मुद्रण of these banknotes ceased after 1815.
During the following दशकों, विदेशी coins became the widespread currency.
In the 1860s and 1870s, banknotes reemerged.
on फ़रवरी 1, 1890, the banco español de प्यूर्टो Rico was inaugurated and began issuing banknotes.
The बैंको designed चार श्रेणी और लगाई तीन in circulation under Spanish rule.
In 1895, a Royal Decree ordered the उत्पादन of प्रांतीय पेसो coins.
on अगस्त 13, 1898, the spanish-american युद्ध ended साथ स्पेन ceding प्यूर्टो रीको to the United States.
The Banco Español de Puerto Rico was renamed Bank of Porto Rico और जारी बिल्स समतुल्य to the United States dollar, creating the Puerto Rican dollar.
In 1902, the First नेशनल बैंको of पोर्टो रीको जारी banknotes in a समानांतर manner.
Two more श्रेणी यहूद जारी जबतक 1913.
After Puerto Rico 's economy and monetary प्रणाली थी fully एकीकृत into the संयुक्त राज्य ' आर्थिक और मौद्रिक प्रणाली, the प्यूर्टो rican dollars were redeemed for those issued by the United States Treasury.
The peso and dollar have been followed by other contemporary issues, including commemorative banknotes, निजी करेंसी, और a क्वार्टर सिक्का designed with Fort San Felipe del Morro in the face.
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in uppercase as पेप्सी ) is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय कि is उत्पादित और manufactured by पेप्सिको.
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as ब्रैड 's पेय, it थी renamed as pepsi-cola on August 28, 1898, then to Pepsi in 1961.
The Book of ezekiel is the तीसरा of the latter नबियों in the यहूदी बाइबल, following the books of Isaiah and Jeremiah and preceding the Book of the Twelve.
( The order is somewhat different in the ईसाई बूढ़ा वसीयत ).
It derives its name from, and रिकॉर्ड the visions of, the 6th सदी bc पुजारी and prophet Ezekiel.
According to the book, the prophet, exiled in Babylon, experienced a series of seven visions दौरान the 22 सालो इससे 593 to 571 bc, a काल जिससे spans the फाइनल विनाश of Jerusalem in 586.
The visions, and the book, are structured around three themes : ( 1 ) judgment on Israel ( chapters 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) judgment on the राष्ट्र ( अध्याय 25-32 ) ; और भविष्य आशीर्वाद लिये Israel ( chapters 33-48 ).
New Orleans ( or, locally or ; ) is a major United States बंदरगाहों और the largest नगर और महानगर area in the state of Louisiana.
The population of the city was 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010 और थी the 46th largest in the United States.
The New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined Statistical Area, a larger व्यापार क्षेत्रफल, था a 2010 जनसांख्यिकी of 1,214,932.
The city is named after Orléans, a city located on the Loire River in केन्द्र, फ़्रांस, और is खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके पृथक फ्रेंच क्रियोल वास्तुकला, as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage.
New Orleans is also famous for its भोजन, म्यूज़िक ( विशेषकर as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ), और इसके सालाना जश्न and festivals, most notably Mardi Gras.
The नगर is प्रायः referred to as the `` most unique '' in America.
New Orleans is located in southeastern louisiana, straddling the मिसिसिपी नदी.
The नगर और ऑरलियन्स Parish ( ) are.
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of st. tammany to the उत्तर, st. बर्नार्ड to the ईस्ट, plaquemines to the दक्षिण और Jefferson to the south and west.
Lake Pontchartrain, part of जिससे is शामिल in the नगर हद, झूठ to the उत्तर और Lake Borgne lies to the east.
The नेशनल जनम कंट्रोल लीग थी a जनम कंट्रोल संगठन in the United States.
It was founded in March 1915 by Mary Dennett, Clara gruening stillman और जेसी एशले.
Its main purpose was to overturn the कानून जिससे बैन contraceptives इससे the U.S. mails.
अभियान यहूद आरोहित in नई यॉर्क, लकिन in 1919 the League was disbanded and reformed into the Voluntary Parenthood League.
Cancer, known medically as a malignant neoplasm, is a व्यापक समूह of विभिन्न रोगों, सब involving unregulated cell growth.
In cancer, cells divide और grow uncontrollably, forming malignant tumors, and invade nearby parts of the body.
The cancer may also spread to more distant parts of the देह through the lymphatic प्रणाली or bloodstream.
Not सब tumors हैं cancerous.
Benign tumors do not grow uncontrollably, do नहीं invade neighboring tissues, and do not spread throughout the body.
There are over 200 different known cancers कि पहुँचकर इंसानो.
Determining what कल्याणकारी कर्कट is जटिल.
Many things हैं ज्ञात to बढ़ाएँ the रिस्क of कर्कट, सहित तम्बाकू उपयोग, निश्चित infections, विकिरण, lack of physical activity, obesity, and environmental pollutants.
These can directly damage जीनों or combine साथ मौजूदा जेनेटिक faults within cells to cause the disease.
Approximately five to ten percent of cancers हैं entirely खानदानी.
कर्कट can be detected in a क्रमांक of तरीके, सहित the presence of certain signs and symptoms, screening tests, or medical imaging.
Once a संभावित कर्कट is detected it is diagnosed by microscopic examination of a tissue sample.
Cancer is प्रायः treated साथ कीमोथेरेपी, विकिरण therapy and surgery.
The chances of surviving the बीमारी vary greatly by the प्रकार और स्थान of the cancer and the extent of disease at the start of treatment.
While cancer can affect people of all ages, and a few types of cancer are more common in children, the रिस्क of विकासशील कर्कट generally increases साथ आयु.
In 2007, cancer caused परिचय 13 % of सब इंसान मौतों worldwide ( 7.9 million ).
Rates are rising as more लोगों सजीव to an बूढ़ा आयु और as द्रव्यमान जीवनशैली परिवर्तन occur in the विकासशील world.
Spring ski touring on hardangervidda, Norway
स्कीइंग is a recreational कार्यकलाप और प्रतिस्पर्धी खेल in जिससे the participant attaches long runners or skis to boots or shoes on the feet and uses them to travel on top of snow.
Aside from recreation and प्रतियोगिता, स्कीइंग रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये सैन्य उद्देश्य और भी यात्राएं in areas that experience heavy snowfall.
Many types of competitive skiing events are recognized by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय ओलम्पिक कमेटी, and the International Ski Federation.
John Maynard Keynes, 1st Baron Keynes, CB, FBA ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 अप्रैल 1946 ) थी a अंग्रेजों अर्थशास्त्री जिनकी विचार have fundamentally प्रभावित the सिद्धान्त और अभ्यास of आधुनिक macroeconomics, and informed the economic policies of governments.
He built on and greatly refined earlier work on the कल्याणकारी of कारोबार चक्र, और is widely माना to be एक of the संस्थापकों of आधुनिक macroeconomics and the most influential economist of the 20th century.
His ideas are the basis for the school of thought known as Keynesian अर्थशास्त्र, as खूब as इसके विभिन्न offshoots.
In many तरीके, subsequent developments in 20th century economics can be viewed as either building on Keynes ' ideas or reacting against them.
In the 1930s, Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic सोच, overturning the पुरानी विचार of neoclassical अर्थशास्त्र कि आयोजित कि फ़्री बाज़ार होता, in the छोटी to मीडियम पद, automatically provide full employment, as long as workers were flexible in their wage demands.
Keynes instead argued that aggregate demand संकल्पित the overall स्तर of आर्थिक कार्यकलाप, और कि अपर्याप्त कुल माँग could सीसे to prolonged periods of high unemployment.
He advocated the use of fiscal and monetary measures to mitigate the प्रतिकूल प्रभाव of आर्थिक recessions और depressions.
Following the outbreak of the Second World War, keynes 's विचार concerning आर्थिक नीति यहूद adopted by leading Western economies.
In 1942, Keynes was awarded a hereditary peerage as सामन्त keynes of tilton in the काउंटी of ससेक्स.
Keynes died in 1946, but during the 1950s and 1960s the success of Keynesian economics resulted in लगभग सब पूंजीवादी सरकारें adopting its policy recommendations.
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s, partly as a result of problems that began to afflict the Anglo-American economies from the start of the decade, and partly because of critiques from मिल्टन फ्राइडमैन और अन्य अर्थशास्त्रियों जो यहूद pessimistic परिचय the क्षमता of सरकारें to विनियमित the कारोबार cycle with fiscal policy.
However, the advent of the global financial crisis in 2007 caused a पुनरुत्थान in keynesian thought.
Keynesian economics provided the theoretical underpinning for आर्थिक नीतियों undertaken in जवाब to the संकट by राष्ट्रपतियों जार्ज W. बुश और बराक ओबामा of the United States, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom, and other heads of governments.
In 1999, Time magazine included Keynes in their list of the 100 सबसे महत्वपूर्ण और influential लोगों of the 20th सदी, commenting कि : `` उसके कट्टरपंथी विचार कि governments should spend money they do n't have may have saved capitalism. ''
In addition to being an economist, Keynes was also a civil servant, a director of the British Eugenics Society, a निदेशक of the बैंको of इंग्लैण्ड, a संरक्षक of the कला और an आर्ट कलेक्टर, a भाग of the bloomsbury समूह of intellectuals, an सलाहकार to अनेक charitable trusts, a लेखक, a philosopher, a private investor, and a farmer.
इस 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by jekuthiel sofer emulated the 1675 Ten Commandments at the Amsterdam Esnoga synagogue.
The Ten Commandments, also known as the decalogue, हैं a नियत of biblical कानून relating to आचार और इबादत, which play a fundamental role in Judaism, Islam and Christianity.
They शामिल निर्देश to इबादत तभी परमेश्वर, to रखना the sabbath पावन और prohibitions विरूद्ध idolatry, blasphemy, murder, theft, deception and adultery.
Different groups follow slightly different traditions for interpreting और क्रमांकन उन्हें.
the टेन आयतें appear twice in the Hebrew Bible, in the books of Exodus and Deuteronomy.
According to the story in Exodus, God inscribed them on दो स्टोन टैबलेट, जिससे he दिया to मूसा on माउंट Sinai.
आधुनिक स्कॉलरशिप रै मिला संभावित प्रभाव in hittite और mesopotamian कानून और treaties, लकिन is विभाजित over exactly when the Ten Commandments were written and who wrote them.
The discography of the English alternative rock band The Smiths consists of four studio albums, one extended play ( EP ), one live album, ten compilation albums, twenty singles, one video एल्बम और चौदह म्यूज़िक वीडियो on the अशिष्ट व्यापार, sire और wea रिकार्ड लेबल्स.
the बैंड थी formed in 1982 in मैनचेस्टर by vocalist Morrissey, guitarist Johnny Marr, bass player Andy Rourke and drummer Mike Joyce.
Despite being championed by बीबीसी रेडियो 1 डिस्क jockey जॉन छिलके, the बैंड 's डेब्यू सिंगल, `` Hand in Glove `` ( May 1983 ), failed to chart.
Its follow-up, `` इस आकर्षक man `` ( अक्तूबर 1983 ), मिले साथ critical acclaim and reached number twenty-five on the UK Singles Chart.
The Smiths ' cult status was followed by mainstream success in 1984, as वे पहुँचे क्रमांक बारह in the uk साथ the `` कया अंतर करता it मेक ? `` सिंगल और पहुँचे क्रमांक दो on the UK Albums Chart with their debut album, The Smiths ( 1984 ).
उनके अगला तीन singles सब पहुँचे the शीर्ष बीस of the चार्ट in the uk, helping to consolidate their previous chart success.
The next studio album, Meat Is Murder ( 1985 ), पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the अंग्रेजों चार्ट ; however, the तभी सिंगल to be released from the album, `` That Joke Is n't Funny Anymore `` ( 1985 ), failed to break the UK Top 40.
Returning to form, The Smiths ' next six singles सब पहुँचे the उच्चतर than क्रमांक तीस in the uk और उनके तीसरा एल्बम, The Queen Is Dead ( 1986 ), reached number two in the UK.
Despite the band 's चार्ट कामयाबी, marr बाएँ the समूह in August 1987 due to a strained relationship with Morrissey.
Failing to find a replacement, The Smiths disbanded by the समय उनके फाइनल स्टुडियो एल्बम, strangeways, यहाँ we आइये, थी released in September that year.
Strangeways, Here We Come reached number two in the UK and became the band 's highest-charting रिलीज in the संयुक्त राज्य जब it पहुँचे क्रमांक fifty-five on the बिलबोर्ड 200.
In early 1992, WEA acquired the entire back catalogue of The Smiths and उत्पादित दो compilations – बेहतरीन... i और... बेहतरीन ii – the पहला of जिससे पहुँचे the top of the UK Albums Chart.
WEA released two further singles compilations in 1995 and 2001, with a further compilation, the ध्वनि of the smiths, released in November 2008.
गए साथ the हवा is a अनोखा written by Margaret Mitchell, first published in 1936.
it is प्रायः लगाई in the साहित्यिक sub-genre of the historical romance novel.
However, it has been argued the novel is a `` near miss '' and does not contain सब of the तत्व of the रोमांस विधा, बनाना it बस a historical novel.
The story is नियत in क्लेटन काउंटी, जॉर्जिया, और अटलांटा दौरान the American Civil War and Reconstruction.
It depicts the experiences of स्कारलेट o'hara, the बिगड़े बेटी of a well-to-do वृक्षारोपण मालिक, जो जरूर उपयोग प्रत्येक means at her disposal to come out of the poverty she finds herself in after Sherman 's `` March to the Sea ''.
Margaret Mitchell began writing Gone with the Wind in 1926 to pass the time जबकि recovering इससे an auto-crash चोट कि refused to heal.
In April 1935, Harold Latham of Macmillan, an editor who was looking for new fiction, पढ़ा कया वो था लिखा और देखी कि it could be a best-seller.
After Latham agreed to publish the book, Mitchell worked for another छह महीने checking the ऐतिहासिक सन्दर्भ, और rewrote the opening chapter several times.
Mitchell and her husband जॉन दलदल, a नक़ल एडिटर by trade, edited the final version of the novel.
Mitchell wrote the book 's final moments first, और तब लिखा the कार्यक्रम कि led up to it.
As to what became of her lovers, Rhett and Scarlett, बाद the अनोखा ended, मिशेल किया नहीं जान, और कहा, `` लिये सब i जान, रहेट may have मिला किसी else जो थी कम मुश्किल. ''
Mitchell received the पुलित्जर पुरस्कार लिये fiction for the book in 1937.
the किताब थी adapted into a 1939 American film.
Gone with the Wind is the तभी अनोखा by मिशेल published during her lifetime.
Endodontics ( from the Greek endo `` inside '' ; and odons `` tooth '' ) is one of the dental specialties पहचाना by the अमरीकी दंत संघ, royal कॉलेज of dentists of Canada, and Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons, and deals with the tooth pulp and the tissues surrounding the root of a tooth.
Endodontists perform a किस्में of प्रक्रियाओं सहित endodontic चिकित्सा ( commonly ज्ञात as `` रूट कनाल चिकित्सा '' ), endodontic retreatment, surgery, treating cracked teeth, and treating dental trauma.
Root canal therapy is one of the सबसे आम प्रक्रियाओं.
If the pulp ( containing nerves, arterioles, venules, lymphatic ऊतक, और fibrous tissue ) becomes diseased or injured, endodontic treatment is required to save the tooth.
Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ) is a point-to-point सीरियल प्रोटोकॉल कि चालें आंकड़ा to और from computer storage devices such as hard drives and tape drives.
SAS replaces the पुरानी समानांतर scsi ( सुनाया `` scuzzy '' ) bus technology that first appeared in the mid-1980s.
SAS, like its predecessor, uses the मानक scsi कमांड नियत.
SAS offers backward compatibility साथ second-generation sata drives.
SATA 3 Gbit/s ड्राइव may be कनेक्ट to sas backplanes, लकिन sas ड्राइव can not connect to SATA backplanes.
The T10 technical committee of the International Committee for Information Technology Standards ( incits ) develops और maintains the sas प्रोटोकॉल ; the SCSI Trade Association ( SCSITA ) promotes the technology.
Part of the संवैधानिक प्रावधान as it appeared in 1787
Status as a natural-born citizen of the United States is एक of the पात्रता आवश्यकताएँ स्थापित in the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान लिये चुनाव to the office of President or Vice President.
This requirement was intended to protect the स्वदेश इससे foreign influence.
The Constitution does not define the phrase natural-born citizen, and विभिन्न राय have महरूम offered over समय regarding इसके precise meaning.
a 2011 congressional शोध Service report stated
The natural-born-citizen clause has been mentioned in passing in several निर्णय of the संयुक्त राज्य परम् अदालत और निम्नतर न्यायालयों dealing साथ the सवाल of पात्रता लिये नागरिकता by जनम, लकिन the परम् Court has never directly addressed the question of a specific presidential or vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as a natural-born citizen.
Kurtis Eugene `` Kurt '' Warner ( born June 22, 1971 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खिलाड़ी.
He played quarterback for three National Football League ( एनएफएल ) टीमों : the st. लुई मेढ़ों, the नई यॉर्क दिग्गज, और the Arizona Cardinals.
He was originally signed by the Green Bay पैकर्स as an undrafted फ़्री एजेंट in 1994 after playing college football at Northern Iowa.
warner होता go on to be माना the बेहतरीन undrafted खिलाड़ी of सब समय, following a 12-year career regarded as one of the greatest stories in NFL history.
Warner first attained stardom while playing for the St. Louis Rams from 1998 to 2003, where he won two NFL MVP awards in 1999 और 2001 as खूब as the सुपर कटोरी mvp पुरस्कार in सुपर कटोरी xxxiv.
He led the 2008 Arizona Cardinals to Super कटोरी xliii ( the मताधिकार 's पहला सुपर कटोरी berth ), and owns the three highest single-game passing yardage totals in Super Bowl history.
Warner currently holds the seventh-highest career passer rating of all-time ( 93.7 ), और the third-highest करियर पूर्णता प्रतिशत in एनएफएल इतिहास साथ 65.5 %.
In 13 career playoff games, Warner ranks first all-time in completion प्रतिशत ( 66.5 % ), गज प्रति attempt ( 8.55 ), और दूसरी in passer rating ( 102.8 ).
He also holds the highest completion percentage for a सिंगल खेल दौरान the नियमित ऋतु, at 92.3 प्रतिशत ( 24/26 ), on September 20, 2009, against the Jacksonville Jaguars.
He announced his retirement on जनवरी 29, 2010. < संदर्भ name='cnn 2010-01-29 ' >
Janet Kay ruthven hagan ( ; born may 26, 1953 ) is the जूनियर संयुक्त States Senator from North Carolina, in office since January 2009.
Previously वो परोसा in the उत्तर कैरोलिना Senate from 1999 to 2009.
She is a member of the Democratic Party और is viewed as a मॉडरेट member of her party.
When Hagan defeated Republican incumbent Elizabeth Dole in the 2008 United States Senate election, she became the पहला स्त्री to शिकस्त an लाज़िम स्त्री in a सीनेट चुनाव.
The Heisman Memorial Trophy Award ( usually known colloquially as the Heisman Trophy or the Heisman ), is awarded annually to the खिलाड़ी deemed the सबसे बकाया खिलाड़ी in कॉलेजिएट football.
It was created in 1935 as the Downtown Athletic Club trophy and renamed in 1936 following the death of the Club 's एथलेटिक निदेशक, जॉन heisman ( पूर्व भूरा विश्वविद्यालयों और विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया खिलाड़ी ; सिर फ़ुटबॉल कोच at oberlin कॉलेज, auburn विश्वविद्यालयों, clemson विश्वविद्यालयों, राइस विश्वविद्यालयों, और the विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया ; और फ़ुटबॉल, basketball, and baseball head coach and athletic director at Georgia Tech ).
The award is प्रस्तुत by the heisman ट्रॉफी विश्वास in जल्दी दिसम्बर पहले the postseason bowl games.
It is the oldest of अनेक overall पुरस्कार in कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल, सहित the मैक्सवेल Award, Walter Camp Award, and the AP Player of the Year.
The heisman और the ap खिलाड़ी of the साल हैं the तभी पुरस्कार to सम्मान the सबसे बकाया खिलाड़ी, जबकि the मैक्सवेल पुरस्कार और वाल्टर Camp Award recognize the best player, and the Archie Griffin Award recognizes the most valuable player.
The United राष्ट्र कमांड ( unc ) is the एकीकृत कमांड ढांचा लिये the बहुराष्ट्रीय सैन्य forces supporting the Republic of Korea ( South Korea or ROK ) during and after the Korean War.
After troops of the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( North Korea or DPRK ) invaded दक्षिण कोरियाई on जून 25, 1950, the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद अपनाया रेज़ोल्यूशन 82 कॉलिंग on उत्तर कोरियाई to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th parallel.
On June 27, 1950, it adopted रेज़ोल्यूशन 83, recommending कि सदस्यों of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र provide सहायता to the Republic of Korea `` to repel the armed attack and to restore international peace and security to the area ''.
Security Council Resolution 84, adopted on July 7, 1950, recommended that members providing सैन्य शक्तियां और अन्य सहायता to दक्षिण कोरियाई `` मेक ऐसे शक्तियां और अन्य सहायता उपलब्धियाँ to a एकीकृत command under the United States of America ''.
Although the resolutions suggested the शक्तियां अंतर्गत the unc यहूद `` संयुक्त राष्ट्र शक्तियां '', और संयुक्त राष्ट्र itself could be माना a belligerent, in practice the United Nations exercised no control over the combat forces, which were controlled by the United States.
Most observers concluded that the forces under the UNC यहूद नहीं in विधि संयुक्त राष्ट्र सैनिकों, और the अधिनियमों of the UNC were not the acts of the United Nations.
The UNC can be regarded as an alliance of नेशनल सेना, ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the सामूहिक right of self-defense.
On August 29, 1950, the अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल 's 27th infantry ब्रिगेड arrived at Busan to join the UNC, which until then included only ROK and U.S. forces.
The 27th Brigade स्थानांतरित into the naktong River line west of Daegu.
Troop units from other countries of the UN followed in rapid उत्तराधिकार ; ऑस्ट्रेलिया, belgian संयुक्त राष्ट्र कमांड, कनाडा, कोलंबिया, इथियोपिया, फ़्रांस, यूनानियों, ध्वज, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the Philippines, Thailand and Turkey.
The Union of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी provided एयर इकाई जिससे लड़ा alongside the air forces of other member nations.
Denmark, इण्डिया, नार्वे, और स्वीडन provided medical units.
Italy provided a हॉस्पिटल, भी हालांकि it थी नहीं a un member.
The United राष्ट्र कमांड और the chinese-north कोरियाई कमांड हस्ताक्षरित the Korean Armistice Agreement on 27 July 1953, ending the heavy fighting.
The armistice agreement established the Military Armistice आयोग ( मैक ), consisting of प्रतिनिधि of the two signatories, to supervise the implementation of the armistice terms.
The North Korean-Chinese MAC has been replaced by panmumjon प्रतिनिधि अंतर्गत विशेष उत्तर कोरियाई management.
Regular meetings have महरूम रोका, हालांकि ड्यूटी अधिकारियों of संयुक्त सुरक्षा क्षेत्रफल, commonly ज्ञात as the Truce Village of Panmunjom, from each side meet regularly.
Lincoln Heights is an अमरीकी परिवार नाटक टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिचय एडी सटन, a मिशन विस्टा पुलिस अधिकारी जो चालें his family back to his old neighborhood, Lincoln Heights, to start a new life and to help out his old neighborhood.
It is a dangerous place to raise a family, and through the many trials the परिवार goes through, वे जल्द सीख कि settling in is नहीं as आसान as it seems.
While Officer Sutton struggles to cope with every day life as a street cop in Los एंजिल्स, उसके बच्चे कोशिश to अनुरूप in at उनके नई स्कूलों और साथ उनके नई पड़ोसी.
The show premiered जनवरी 8, 2007 on the एबीसी परिवार संजाल with 13 episodes ordered for the first season.
It was स्वीकृत लिये a दूसरी ऋतु, which premiered September 4, 2007.
Vanessa Hudgens ' song, Say OK था महरूम प्रयुक्त in a वाणिज्यिक to प्रचार the second season.
To promote the third season, they showed क्लिप्स of cassie और चार्ल्स 's संबंध to the सोंग, crush by the अमरीकी आइडल 's seventh season runner-up, David Archuleta.
To प्रचार ऋतु 4, वे 're using the सोंग, हिमस्खलन by Marie Digby.
The show 's theme song was written and performed by bassist Stanley Clarke और singer-songwriter blaire reinhard.
On January 29, 2010, ABC Family announced the रद्दीकरण of the श्रेणी बाद चार seasons.
a ईसाई denomination is an identifiable धार्मिक body under a common name, structure, and doctrine within Christianity.
In the परंपरागत परंपरा, चर्च हैं विभाजित प्रायः साथ जातीय और linguistic lines, into separate churches and traditions.
Technically, divisions between one group और another हैं पारिभाषित by doctrine and church authority.
Issues such as the nature of Jesus, the authority of अपोस्टोलिक उत्तराधिकार, eschatology, और papal primacy पृथक एक denomination from another.
The रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर is the largest denomination साथ over 1.1 अरब सदस्यों, over हाफ of सब ईसाइयों विश्वव्यापी, बनाना it the largest denomination for any religion worldwide ( although the church does not view itself as a denomination, but as the original pre-denominational church ).
Protestant denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of Christians worldwide, और साथ the catholics, protestants, anglicans, और अन्य closely सम्बन्धित denominations comprise पश्चिमी christianity.
The Eastern Orthodox Church, Oriental परंपरागत चर्च और the assyrian गिरिजाघर of the ईस्ट are considered Eastern Christian denominations.
Western Christian denominations prevail in Western Europe and इसके पूर्व colonies.
Eastern Christian denominations हैं represented ज़्यादातर in पूर्वी Europe, the Middle East and North Africa.
Christians have various doctrines परिचय the गिरिजाघर, the देह of वफादार कि वे मानना थी स्थापित by Jesus Christ, and how the divine church corresponds to Christian denominations.
Both the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider प्रत्येक of themselves solely to faithfully represent the एक पावन कैथोलिक और अपोस्टोलिक Church to the exclusion of the other.
Protestants separated इससे the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर क्युकी of theologies and practices that they considered to be in violation of their interpretation.
Generally, members of the various denominations acknowledge each other as Christians, at least to the extent कि वे have mutually पहचाना baptisms और acknowledge historically परंपरागत दृश्य सहित the देवत्व of यीशु और doctrines of sin and salvation, even though doctrinal and ecclesiological obstacles hinder full communion between churches.
Since the reforms surrounding वेटिकन ii, the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर रै referred to प्रोटोस्टेंट समुदायों as `` denominations '', while reserving the term `` church '' for apostolic churches, including the Eastern Orthodox ( see subsistit in and branch theory ).
There are however some non-denominational ईसाइयों जो do नहीं follow कोई particular branch.
The panda ( ailuropoda melanoleuca, lit.
`` black and white cat-foot '' ), भी ज्ञात as the दानव पांडा to फर्क it इससे the unrelated red panda, is a bear native to central-western and south western China.
It is easily recognized by the large, distinctive black patches around इसके आँखें, over the कानों, और across its round body.
Though it belongs to the order Carnivora, the panda 's आहार is 99 % बाँसुरी.
Pandas in the wild will occasionally eat other grasses, जंगली tubers, or भी मांस in the रूप of पक्षियों, rodents or carrion.
In captivity, they may receive honey, eggs, fish, yams, shrub leaves, संतरे, or केले along with specially prepared food.
The giant panda lives in a few mountain ranges in सेंट्रल चीन, मुख्यतः in सिचुआन प्रांत, लकिन भी in the shaanxi and Gansu provinces.
As a result of farming, deforestation and other development, the पांडा रै महरूम चलित आउट of the lowland क्षेत्रों जहाँ it once lived.
The panda is a conservation reliant endangered प्रजाति.
A 2007 report shows 239 pandas जीना in captivity अंदर चीन और another 27 outside the country.
Wild population estimates vary ; one अनुमान shows कि वहीँ हैं परिचय 1,590 individuals जीना in the wild, while a 2006 study via DNA analysis estimated that this figure could be as high as 2,000 to 3,000.
Some reports also show that the number of pandas in the जंगली is on the वृद्धि.
However, the IUCN does not believe there is पर्याप्त certainty yet to reclassify the species from Endangered to Vulnerable.
While the ड्रैगन रै प्रायः परोसा as चीन 's नेशनल emblem, internationally the panda appears at least as commonly.
As such, it is becoming widely used within China in international contexts, लिये उदाहरण the पाँच fuwa mascots of the Beijing Olympics.
The Kite Runner is a 2007 American drama film directed by मार्क forster आधारित on the अनोखा of the same name by Khaled Hosseini.
It tells the story of Amir, a well-to-do boy from the वज़ीर akbar खान ज़िला of काबुल, जो is tormented by the guilt of abandoning उसके dost हसन, the son of his father 's Hazara servant.
The story is set against a backdrop of tumultuous events, from the fall of the monarchy in Afghanistan through the Soviet military हस्तक्षेप, the द्रव्यमान exodus of अफगान शरणार्थियों to पाकिस्तानी और the संयुक्त राज्य, और the तालिबान regime.
Though most of the film is set in Afghanistan, these parts were mostly shot in Kashgar, चीन, due to the खतरों of फिल्मांकन in अफगानिस्तान at the समय.
The बहुमत of the फिल्मी 's संवाद is in जमींदारी, साथ the remainder spoken in English.
The child अभिनेताओं हैं देशी अध्यक्षों, लकिन अनेक वयस्क अभिनेताओं had to learn Dari.
Filming लपेटा up on दिसम्बर 21, 2006, और the film was expected to be released on November 2, 2007.
However, after concern for the safety of the young actors in the फिल्मी due to fears of हिंसक reprisals to the यौन प्रकृति of कुछ दृश्यों in जिससे वे appear, इसके रिलीज तिथि थी धकेल वापस छह सप्ताह to दिसम्बर 14, 2007.
The Kite धावक थी released on DVD on March 25, 2008.
A HD DVD रिलीज थी घोषित लिये the वही तिथि, लकिन थी canceled following the format 's demise.
The film was nominated लिये the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन विदेशी Language Film in 2007.
The film 's score by Alberto Iglesias थी मनोनीत लिये बेहतरीन असली स्कोर at the सुनहरी ग्लोब्स और the अकादमी Awards.
the वैधता of कैनबिस varies from country to country.
Possession of cannabis is illegal in सबसे देशों और रै महरूम चूंकि the शुरूआत of फैली कैनबिस निषेध in the late 1930s.
However, many countries have decriminalized the possession of small quantities of cannabis, particularly in उत्तर अमेरिका, दक्षिण अमेरिका और यूरोपीय.
Furthermore, possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands, North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन if it यहूद नहीं लिये संघीय विधि, जिससे governs persons in all states.
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number of देशों, सहित कनाडा, the चेक गणतंत्र and Israel.
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis, enforcement varies widely at the state level and some राज्य have स्थापित औषधीय मारिजुआना कार्यक्रम in कि खण्डन संघीय विधि ; दो राज्य ( कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime, also contrary to federal statute.
कुछ देशों have कानून कि हैं नहीं as vigorously prosecuted as अन्य लकिन, apart from the countries that offer access to medical marijuana, most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe.
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than अन्य in लिहाज़ to the cultivation, उपयोग, कब्ज़ा or ट्रांसफ़र of कैनबिस for recreational use.
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small quantities of cannabis, making it दंडनीय by confiscation और a ठीक, बल्कि than कारावास.
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use अनिवार्य उपचार कार्यक्रम लिये यंग or बारंबार उपयोक्ता, साथ freedom from narcotic drugs as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes.
There are also changes in a अधिक प्रतिबंधक direction as in Canada.
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly common in many देशों और have resulted in कारावास वाक्य और people losing their jobs.
However, simple possession can carry long jail वाक्य in कुछ देशों, विशेषकर in भाग of ईस्ट एशिया और southeast एशिया where the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution.
Loxahatchee is a जातियाँ स्तिथ in ताड़ Beach County, Florida, United States.
It is located in the क्षेत्रों उत्तर of वेलिंगटन और वेस्ट और उत्तरपश्चिम of royal ताड़ बीच, फ्लोरिडा और लगभग west of West Palm Beach.
loxahatchee is भी the नाम of the पोस्ट दफ्तर that serves this area, which is under the zip code of 33470.
The name Loxahatchee अर्थात् `` कछुआ नदी. ''
Loxahatchee is located within the Indian Trails सुधार ज़िला और the loxahatchee groves जल कंट्रोल ज़िला.
Lion देश safari, a drive-through safari पार्क, is located in Loxahatchee.
In 2006, the state of Florida स्वीकृत incorporation of भाग of loxahatchee as the कस्बा of loxahatchee groves to become the 38th नगरपालिका in Palm Beach County.
the प्रमुख कारण लिये incorporating थी to बेहतर protect the area from encroaching growth and to preserve the rural character of the neighborhood.
शायद the सबसे ग्रामीण क्षेत्रफल भीतर a बंद निकटता to West Palm Beach, with lot sizes range from 1-20 acres.
Along with The Acreage, it is notable लिये ढीला जमीन प्रतिबंध और the देशी और exotic एनिमल presence is quite notable.
seminole लकीरें ऊँची स्कूल serves the area.
The Canadian Citizenship Test is a test, administered by नागरिकता और आव्रजन कनाडा ( सीआईसी ), कि is जरूरी लिये सब आवेदकों लिये कनाडाई नागरिकता who are aged between 18 and 54 and who meet the basic requirements for citizenship.
The test is available in दोनो फ्रेंच और अंग्रेज़ी, the आधिकारिक languages of Canada.
Renaissance क्रूज़, originally संस्थापित in 1989 स्वामित्व by fearnley & eger rederi in ओस्लो - नार्वे, बाद खरीदा by Edward Rudner ( founder of Alamo Car Rental ) as the company faltered during the Gulf War.
They operated year-round cruise itineraries to the भूमध्यसागरीय, the यूनानी isles, tahiti और the दक्षिण प्रशांत, उत्तरी यूरोपीय और Scandinavia.
The company ceased operations on 25 सितंबर 2001 और accommodated up to 220,000 अतिथि in 2000.
While the company had been in poor वित्तीय स्वास्थ्य लिये काफी कुछ समय, the आर्थिक मनाही resulting इससे the सितंबर 11th terrorist attacks are credited with the demise of this cruise line.
The fleet is listed under सूची of क्रूज जहाजों.
It was headquartered in फोर्ट lauderdale, Florida.
epithelium is एक of the चार मौलिक प्रकार of एनिमल ऊतक, along with connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue.
Epithelial tissues लकीर the कैविटी और सतहों of structures throughout the body, and also form many glands.
Functions of epithelial कोशिकाएं शामिल स्राव, चयनात्मक absorption, protection, transcellular transport and detection of sensation.
In Greek `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) अर्थात् `` on '' or `` upon '', और `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple ''.
Epithelial layers are avascular, so they must receive nourishment via diffusion of substances इससे the underlying संयोजी tissue, through the basement membrane.
epithelia can भी be व्यवस्थित into क्लस्टर of cells that function as exocrine and endocrine glands.
Kent E. Hovind ( born January 15, 1953 ) is an अमरीकी यंग धरती creationist.
Hovind has spoken on creation science and has aimed to convince श्रोता to अस्वीकृत theories of एवोल्यूशन, भूभौतिकी, और cosmology in एहसान of उसके निर्वचन of the Genesis creation narrative from the Bible.
Hovind 's views are contradicted by scientific evidence and some of his विचार have भी महरूम criticized by यंग धरती creationist संगठन ऐसे as जवाब in उत्पत्ति.
Hovind established the सृष्टि विज्ञान इंजीलवाद in 1991, और अक्सर spoke on यंग धरती creationism at seminars at private schools and churches, debates, and on radio and television broadcasts.
Since January 2007, Hovind has been serving a ten-year prison sentence बाद होने convicted of 58 संघीय रिश्तो, सहित 12 कर offenses, एक गिनती of obstructing federal agents, and 45 counts of structuring cash transactions.
He is incarcerated at the संघीय correctional Institution at Berlin, New Hampshire.
Bride with बिंदी सजा माथे
A bindi (, from Sanskrit bindu, अर्थ `` a बूँद, छोटी कण, बिन्दु '' ), or a pottu/bottu ( in तमिल, तेलुगु, और मलयालम ) is a माथे decoration worn in South Asia ( particularly India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Mauritius ) and Southeast Asia.
Traditionally it is a bright dot of red color applied in the center of the forehead close to the eyebrows, लकिन it can भी consist of a चिह्न or टुकड़ा of आभूषण worn at इस location.
The New York gubernatorial election of 2010 was held on Tuesday, November 2, 2010, to elect the राज्यपाल of नई यॉर्क, to serve a four-year term that began in January 2011.
Incumbent Democratic Governor David Paterson, elected as Lieutenant Governor in 2006 as the कार्यशील mate of पूर्व राज्यपाल एलियट स्पिट्जर, chose not to run for a full-term.
On November 2, New York Attorney सामान्य और डेमोक्रेट एंड्रयू cuomo पराजित रिपब्लिकन कार्ल paladino.
Green Party candidate Howie Hawkins received over 57,000 votes, allowing the New यॉर्क ग्रीन पार्टी to be सूचीबद्ध on the बैलट लिये the next 4 years.
The main cast of Dragon बॉल at the समाप्त of the manga.
The Dragon Ball manga and anime series features an extensive डाल of वर्ण निर्मित by अकिरा toriyama.
The series takes place in a fictional ब्रह्मांड, the वही as toriyama 's पिछला श्रेणी dr. slump, और फ़ॉलो the adventures of martial कलाकार बेटे goku इससे बाल्यकाल to adulthood as he searches for the seven spheres known as the Dragon Balls, used to summon a wish-granting dragon.
During the course of the story, he encounters allies such as Bulma, Yamcha, Kuririn और trunks, विरोधियों ऐसे as tenshinhan, piccolo और vegeta, और दुश्मनों ऐसे as freeza और Cell.
While many of the वर्ण हैं इंसानो साथ superhuman शक्ति and/or अलौकिक abilities, the cast also includes anthropomorphic animals and later, extraterrestrial lifeforms.
the श्रेणी भी शामिल depictions of the afterlife, with several characters being gods that govern the universe.
250px
the comanche हैं a मैदान भारतीय जनजाति जिनकी ऐतिहासिक territory, ज्ञात as comancheria, consisted of उपस्थित दिन पूर्वी नई मैक्सिको, southern Colorado, northeastern Arizona, southern Kansas, all of Oklahoma, and most of northwest Texas.
The Comanche people are नामांकित in the federally पहचाना Comanche Nation, in Oklahoma.
historically, the comanches यहूद hunter-gatherers with a horse culture.
There may have been as many as 45,000 comanches in the लेट 18th सदी.
Today, the comanche स्वदेश comanche जनजातीय नामांकन संख्याएँ 15,191 साथ लगभग 7,763 members residing in the Lawton – Fort Sill and surrounding areas of Southwest Oklahoma.
The Comanche Nation Homecoming powwow is आयोजित annually in walters, ओक्लाहोमा in mid-july.
The Comanche spoke the Comanche language, a Numic language of the uto-aztecan परिवार, sometimes वर्गीकृत as a shoshone dialect ; however, तभी परिचय 1 % of Comanches speak it today.
Ethan Frome is a novel published in 1911 by the पुलित्जर पुरस्कार -winning अमरीकी लेखक एडिथ Wharton.
It is set in the fictitious कस्बा of starkfield, मैसाचुसेट्स.
The novel थी adapted into a फिल्मी, ethan Frome, in 1993.
Times Square Studios ( TSS ) is an American television studio located in the टाइम्स वर्गाकार पड़ोस of the मैनहटन बरो of नई यॉर्क नगर, नई York.
The studio is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the उत्पादन घर of एबीसी न्यूज ' शुभ morning अमेरिका ( जीएमए ), a morning news and talk program and segments for GMA on ABC News Now.
The Las Vegas Strip संसार of coca-cola संग्रहालय in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in स्टोर्स, रेस्तरां, और वेंडिंग मशीने in प्रत्येक देश मगर Cuba and North Korea.
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, Georgia, and is प्रायः referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of the coca-cola कम्पनी in the संयुक्त राज्य since March 27, 1944 ).
originally intended as a पेटेंट आयुर्विज्ञान जब it थी invented in the लेट 19th सदी by जॉन pemberton, coca-cola थी खरीदा आउट by बिजनेसमैन asa griggs Candler, whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century.
The company produces concentrate, which is then sold to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the world.
The bottlers, जो थाम territorially विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी, उपज समाप्त product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners.
The bottlers then sell, distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and वेंडिंग मशीने.
Such bottlers include coca-cola उद्यमों, जिससे is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in North America and western Europe.
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to प्रमुख रेस्तरां and food service distributors.
the coca-cola कम्पनी रै, on अवसर, introduced other cola drinks under the Coke brand name.
The most common of these is Diet Coke, with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke caffeine-free, coca-cola चेरी, coca-cola शून्य, coca-cola वैनिला, and special versions with lemon, lime or coffee.
Based on interbrand 's बेहतरीन वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011, coca-cola was the world 's most valuable brand.
प्रकार of bar-lines
In musical notation, a bar ( or measure ) is a segment of time defined by a given number of बीट्स, प्रत्येक of जिससे हैं आबंटित a particular नोट मान.
Dividing music into bars provides regular reference अंक to pin पाइंट स्थितियाँ भीतर a टुकड़ा of music.
It also makes लिखा म्यूज़िक easier to follow, चूंकि प्रत्येक बार of staff symbols can be read and played as a batch.
Typically, a piece consists of several bars of the same length, and in आधुनिक musical संकेतन the क्रमांक of बीट्स in प्रत्येक बार is निर्दिष्ट at the शुरूआत of the स्कोर by the शीर्ष क्रमांक of a समय हस्ताक्षर ( such as 3/4 ), while the bottom number indicates the note value of the beat ( the beat has a quarter note value in the 3/4 example ).
The word bar is more common in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी, और the शब्द माप is अधिक आम in अमरीकी English, although musicians generally understand both usages.
In American English, although the words bar and measure are often used interchangeably the सही उपयोग of the शब्द 'bar ' refers तभी to the लंबवत लकीर itself, जबकि the word 'measure ' refers to the beats contained between bars.
In international usage, it is equally correct to speak of bar numbers and measure numbers, e.g. ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm. 9–16’.
Along the same लाइनों, it is हिकमत to आरक्षित the abbreviated form ‘bb.
3–4’ etc. for beats तभी ; बार चाहिए be referred to by name in full.
The first metrically complete measure within a piece of म्यूज़िक is पुकारा ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’.
When the piece begins with an anacrusis ( an incomplete measure at the सिर of a टुकड़ा of म्यूज़िक ), ‘bar 1’ or ‘m. 1’ is the following measure.
The 19.9 MW gemasolar सौर संयंत्र in स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 hours of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day.
Solar energy, radiant light and heat इससे the सूर्य, रै महरूम harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies शामिल सौर हीटिंग, सौर photovoltaics, सौर थर्मल विद्युत, सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis, which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive सौर or क्रियाशील solar depending on the way they capture, convert and distribute solar energy.
Active solar तकनीकों शामिल the use of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy.
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials with favorable thermal द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing गुण, और डिजाइनिंग स्पेसेस कि naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of सस्ती, inexhaustible और साफ सौर उर्जा technologies होगा have विशाल longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an स्वदेशी, inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन, बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
These लाभ हैं वैश्विक.
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना निवेश ; वे जरूर be बुद्धिमानी खर्च और need to be widely shared ''.
Primary care may be provided in जातियाँ स्वास्थ्य केंद्रों.
Primary care is the health परवाह दिए by a स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रदाता.
Typically this provider acts as the principal point of परामर्श लिये मरीजों भीतर a स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणाली और निर्देशांक other specialists that the patient may need.
Such a professional can be a primary care physician, such as a general practitioner or family physician, or depending on the मोहल्ले, स्वास्थ्य प्रणाली संगठन, और रोगी 's discretion, वे may देखिए a फार्मासिस्ट, a चिकित्सक सहायक, a नर्स practitioner, a नर्स ( ऐसे as in the संयुक्त किंगडम ), a नैदानिक अधिकारी ( such as in parts of Africa ), or an Ayurvedic or other traditional medicine professional ( such as in parts of Asia ).
Depending on the प्रकृति of the स्वास्थ्य कंडीशन, patients may then be referred for secondary or tertiary care.
`` Ocean Avenue '' is a song recorded by अमरीकी पॉप पंक समूह yellowcard.
It was released in February 2004 as the दूसरी सिंगल इससे Ocean Avenue and the third track.
It is known लिये bringing उन्हें into the मुख्यधारा, as it received numerous spins on MTV and increasing radio airplay.
Ocean Avenue is a street in Jacksonville, Florida, the band 's stomping grounds निकट उनके ऊँची स्कूल, डगलस एंडरसन स्कूल of the Arts, and another street mentioned in the song, Cherry Street.
The नाम of समंदर एवेन्यू in jacksonville is actually Beach Boulevard.
They left their असली आधार पीछे जब वे स्थानांतरित to Los Angeles.
The song was featured on the much म्यूज़िक संकलन एल्बम बिग चमकदार धुनें 9.
A psychiatrist is a चिकित्सक जो specializes in psychiatry.
A मनोचिकित्सक specializes in the treatment of mental disorders.
Psychiatrists are authorized to prescribe medicine, conduct शारीरिक examinations, अनुक्रम और interpret प्रयोगशाला परीक्षण, उपयोग मनोचिकित्सा और may अनुक्रम दिमाग इमेजिंग studies such as computed tomography ( CT/CAT Scan ), magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ), and positron emission tomography ( PET ) scanning.
Within the framework of the World Health Organization 's ( WHO ) definition of health as a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, and not merely the अनुपस्थिति of बीमारी or infirmity, reproductive स्वास्थ्य, or यौन health/hygiene, पता the reproductive प्रक्रियाओं, कृत्यों और system at all stages of life.
Reproductive स्वास्थ्य, इसलिए, implies कि लोगों हैं समर्थ to have a जिम्मेदार, संतोषजनक और safer sex जीवन और कि वे have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if, when and how often to do so.
One interpretation of this implies that men and women ought to be सूचित of और to have अभिगम to सुरक्षित, प्रभावी, सस्ती और स्वीकार्य विधि of जनम कंट्रोल ; भी अभिगम to उचित स्वास्थ्य परवाह सेवाएं of यौन, reproductive आयुर्विज्ञान और क्रियान्वयन of स्वास्थ्य शिक्षा कार्यक्रम to stress the importance of women to go safely through pregnancy and childbirth could provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant.
On the अन्य हाथ individuals do फेस inequalities in reproductive health services.
inequalities vary आधारित on socioeconomic औकात, शिक्षा स्तर, आयु, नस्ल, धर्म, and resources available in their environment.
It is possible for example, that low आय individuals कमी the संसाधन लिये उचित स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं और the ज्ञान to जान कया is उचित for maintaining reproductive health.
According to the WHO, `` Reproductive and sexual ill-health accounts for 20 % of the वैश्विक बोझ of ill-health लिये महिलाओं, और 14 % for men. ''
Reproductive health is a part of यौन और reproductive स्वास्थ्य और rights.
This is a list of episodes for the डिज़्नी चैनल असली श्रेणी the सुइट जीवन on डेक, जिससे aired for three seasons on Disney Channel from September 26, 2008 to May 6, 2011.
Core 2 is a brand encompassing a range of Intel 's consumer 64-bit x86-64 single-, दुआl-, और quad-core microprocessors आधारित on the कोर microarchitecture.
The single- और dual-core मॉडल हैं single- die, whereas the quad-core मॉडल comprise दो मरता, प्रत्येक containing two cores, packaged in a multi-chip module.
The introduction of Core 2 relegated the Pentium brand to the mid-range market, and reunified लैपटॉप और डेस्कटॉप cpu लाइनों, जिससे previously था been divided into the Pentium 4, Pentium D, and Pentium M brands.
The Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 July 2006, comprising the सोलो ( single-core ), duo ( dual-core ), क्वाड ( quad-core ), और in 2007, the चरम ( दुआl- or quad-core cpu लिये enthusiasts ) subbrands.
Intel Core 2 processors with vPro प्रौद्योगिकी ( designed लिये व्यवसायों ) शामिल the dual-core and quad-core branches.
The Super Bowl is the annual championship game of the National Football League ( NFL ), the highest level of professional American फ़ुटबॉल in the संयुक्त राज्य, culminating a ऋतु कि begins in the लेट गर्मियाँ of the पिछला पंचांग year.
The Super Bowl uses रोमन numerals to पहचानो each game, rather than the year in which it is held.
For उदाहरण, सुपर कटोरी i थी निभाई on जनवरी 15, 1967, following the 1966 नियमित ऋतु, जबकि सुपर Bowl XLVII was played on February 3, 2013, following the 2012 season.
The game was created as भाग of a विलय अनुबंध between the एनएफएल और इसके then-rival league, the American Football League ( AFL ).
It was agreed that the two leagues ' चैंपियन टीमों होता खेल in an afl–nfl संसार चैंपियनशिप खेल जबतक the merger was to officially begin in 1970.
After the merger, each league was redesignated as a `` conference ``, and the खेल थी तब निभाई between the सम्मेलन champions.
Currently, the National Football Conference ( NFC ) leads the series with 25 wins to 22 विन्स लिये the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ).
The day on which the Super Bowl is played, now माना by कुछ a de facto अमरीकी नेशनल अवकाश, is पुकारा `` सुपर कटोरी Sunday ``.
It is the second-largest day for u.S. खाना खपत, बाद थैंक्सगिविंग Day.
In addition, the Super Bowl रै अक्सर महरूम the सबसे देखी American television broadcast of the year.
Super Bowl XLV, played in 2011, became the most-watched अमरीकी टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम in इतिहास, आरेखण an औसत दर्शक of 111 लाख दर्शक और लेने over the स्पॉट आयोजित by the previous year 's Super Bowl, which itself had taken over the # 1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of M*A*S*H.
The Super Bowl is also among the most watched sporting events in the world, लगभग सब होने उत्तर अमरीकी ऑडियंस, और is दूसरी to संघ फ़ुटबॉल ’s यूईएफए champions लीग final as the most watched annual sporting event worldwide.
क्युकी of इसके ऊँची viewership, वाणिज्यिक airtime दौरान the Super Bowl broadcast is the most expensive of the year.
Due to the high cost of investing in विज्ञापन on the सुपर कटोरी, कंपनियाँ regularly develop their most expensive advertisements for this broadcast.
As a result, watching और discussing the ब्रॉडकास्ट 's commercials has become a significant aspect of the event.
In addition, many popular singers and musicians have performed दौरान the इवेंट 's pre-game और मध्यांतर ceremonies because of the exposure.
Fiona is a feminine दिए name.
The name Fiona was invented, and first प्रयुक्त, by the स्कॉटिश कवि जेम्स macpherson ( 1736–96 ), लेखक of the ossian poems, which he claimed were translations from ancient Gaelic sources ( sources, when challenged, he never produced ).
The name was subsequently used as a pseudonym by विलियम शार्प ( 1855–1905 ), जो authored अनेक रोमांटिक works under the name `` Fiona Macleod ''.
The name has since become लोकप्रिय in इंग्लैण्ड, स्कॉटलैंड और Ireland.
The name is माना to be a latinised रूप of the गैलिक word fionn, meaning `` white '', `` fair ''.
The name Fiona is also sometimes used as an anglicisation of the irish-language नाम fíona, हालांकि ये names हैं वरना unrelated ( as fíona is derived from an element meaning `` vine '' ).
There is also a modern tendency to equate the प्रामाणिक स्कॉटिश गैलिक feminine नाम Fionnghal with Fiona.
The name Fiona is उठती in लोकप्रियता विशेषकर in जर्मनी -speaking countries.
फिओना थी the 49th सबसे लोकप्रिय name for baby girls born in 2008 in Germany.
Fiona थी tied लिये तीसरा प्लेस in the रैंकिंग of सबसे लोकप्रिय names लिये baby girls born in the tiny principality of Liechtenstein in 2008.
The name was the 347th most popular name for girls born in the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008, where it has ranked among the top 1,000 most popular names for girls since 1990 and among the top 500 since 1999.
The name फिओना रै महरूम विशेषकर लोकप्रिय लिये लड़कियों of एशियाई or प्रशांत islander descent in New York City, where Fiona ranked as the ninth most popular name for girls from those groups in 2007.
Many भाषाएं हैं प्रयुक्त, or historically have been used in the United States.
The most commonly प्रयुक्त भाषा is English.
There are भी अनेक भाषाएं स्वदेशी to उत्तर अमेरिका or to U.S. states or holdings in the Pacific region.
Languages brought to the country by colonists or immigrants from Europe, Asia, or other parts of the संसार मेक up a विशाल portion of the भाषाएं फिलहाल प्रयुक्त ; अनेक भाषाएं, सहित creoles और sign languages, have also developed in the United States.
लगभग 337 भाषाएं हैं बोला or हस्ताक्षरित by the population, of which 176 are indigenous to the area.
Fifty-two भाषाएं formerly बोला in the देश 's territory are now extinct.
The किस्में of अंग्रेज़ी बोला in the संयुक्त States is known as American English.
English is the de facto national language of the United States, with 80 % of the जनसांख्यिकी claiming it as a माँ जीभ, और कुछ 95 % claiming to speak it `` well '' or `` very well ''.
However, no आधिकारिक भाषा exists at the federal level.
There have been several proposals to make English the नेशनल भाषा in amendments to आव्रजन सुधार बिल्स, लकिन none of ये बिल्स has become law with the amendment intact.
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial levels, with some states mirroring the federal policy of adopting no official language in a de jure क्षमता, अन्य adopting अंग्रेज़ी अलोन, अन्य officially adopting अंग्रेज़ी as खूब as लोकल भाषाएं, और स्टिल अन्य adopting a policy of de facto bilingualism.
स्पेनी is the दूसरी सबसे आम भाषा in the country, and is spoken by over 12 % of the population.
The United States holds the world 's fifth largest spanish-speaking जनसांख्यिकी, outnumbered तभी by मैक्सिको, स्पेन, कोलंबिया, और Argentina.
Throughout the Southwestern United States, long-established spanish-speaking समुदायों coexist साथ विशाल संख्याएँ of अधिक हाल hispanophone immigrants.
Although many new Latin American आप्रवासियों हैं कम than धाराप्रवाह in अंग्रेज़ी, nearly सब second-generation हिस्पैनिक अमेरिकी बोलो English fluently, while only about half still speak Spanish.
According to the 2000 US census, people of जर्मनी ancestry मेक up the largest सिंगल जातीय group in the United States, and the German language ranks fifth.
Italian, पॉलिश, और फ्रेंच हैं स्टिल widely बोला among populations descending इससे आप्रवासियों इससे those देशों in the early 20th century, but the use of these languages is dwindling as the older generations die.
Russian is भी बोला by अप्रवासी populations.
Tagalog and Vietnamese have over एक लाख अध्यक्षों प्रत्येक in the संयुक्त राज्य, लगभग entirely within recent immigrant populations.
Both भाषाएं, साथ साथ the किस्में of the चाइनीज भाषा, जापानी, और कोरियाई, हैं अभी प्रयुक्त in चुनावों in Alaska, California, Hawaii, Illinois, New York, Texas, and Washington.
Native American languages are spoken in smaller pockets of the country, but these populations are अवरोहण, और the भाषाएं हैं लगभग never widely प्रयुक्त बाहर of रिज़र्वेशन.
Hawaiian, although having few native speakers, is an official भाषा साथ साथ अंग्रेज़ी at the राज्य स्तर in हवाई.
The state सरकारी of louisiana offers services and documents in French, as does New Mexico in Spanish.
Besides English, Spanish, French, German, Navajo and other Native American languages, all other languages are usually learned from immigrant पूर्वजो कि आए बाद the समय of स्वतंत्रता or सीखे through कुछ रूप of education.
1990 's Pontiac ग्रैंड am सेडान फेंडर और क्वार्टर panel
On an automobile, a quarter panel ( or rear wing as it is ज्ञात in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी ) is प्रायः माना the देह फलक जिससे goes between the पश्च द्वार और the ट्रंक और typically wraps around the व्हील खूब ; however, the similar front section Fender ( vehicle ), between the door and the hood, is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter panel.
The quarter panel is typically made of Sheet metal, but is sometimes made of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced प्लास्टिक ; हालांकि, इस varies साथ different makes and models.
A quarter panel is typically a welded on component of the uni-body structure or monocoque.
Replacement of a sheet metal quarter panel typically requires it to be काटें बंद the गाडी और a बदलना भाग to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the Vehicle.
Due to this high amount of specialized labor, a क्वार्टर फलक may प्रायः be repaired बल्कि than replaced by hammering आउट the damage, and a body filler sometimes referred to as bondo to be applied to finalize the original surface.
Shropshire ( or ; alternatively Salop ; abbreviated, in छपाई तभी, shrops ) is a काउंटी in the वेस्ट मिडलैंड्स region of England.
It borders Wales to the west, Cheshire to the north, Staffordshire to the ईस्ट, वॉस्टरशायर to the south-east और herefordshire to the south.
A unitary authority ( Shropshire Council ) was created on 1 April 2009, taking over इससे the पिछला काउंटी परिषद और 5 ज़िला councils, और कवर सबसे of the काउंटी.
the बरो of telford और wrekin रै महरूम a पृथक एकात्मक प्राधिकार चूंकि 1998 but continues to be included in the ceremonial county.
The county 's population and economy is centred on five towns : the county town of Shrewsbury, which is culturally और historically महत्वपूर्ण और is स्तिथ in the केन्द्र of the काउंटी ; telford, a नई कस्बा in the ईस्ट जिससे थी constructed around a क्रमांक of पुरानी कस्बों, सबसे notably वेलिंगटन, dawley और madeley, जिससे is today the most populous ; and Oswestry in the north-west, Bridgnorth just to the south of Telford, and Ludlow in the south.
The county has many further market towns, including Whitchurch in the north, Newport just to the north-east of telford, और मार्केट drayton in the north-east of the काउंटी.
The Ironbridge Gorge area is a UNESCO World विरासत साईट, covering ironbridge, coalbrookdale and a part of Madeley.
There are, additionally, other notable historic industrial sites located around the county, such as at shrewsbury, broseley, snailbeach और highley as खूब as the shropshire Union Canal.
The Shropshire Hills Area of Outstanding प्राकृतिक सौंदर्य कवर परिचय a क्वार्टर of the काउंटी, mainly in the south.
Shropshire is one of England 's most rural and sparsely आबादी काउंटी, साथ the जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व of the shropshire परिषद area being just 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ).
the wrekin is एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध प्राकृतिक लैंडमार्क in the काउंटी, हालांकि the highest hills are the Clee Hills, Stiperstones and the Long Mynd.
Wenlock Edge is another significant भौगोलिक और geological लैंडमार्क.
In the low-lying उत्तरपश्चिम of the काउंटी ( और अतिव्यापी the किनारा साथ वेल्स ) is the fenn 's, Whixall and Bettisfield Mosses National Nature Reserve, one of the most important and best preserved bogs in Britain.
The River Severn, Great ब्रिटेन 's longest नदी, रनों through the काउंटी, exiting into Worcestershire via the Severn Valley.
shropshire is landlocked, और साथ an क्षेत्रफल of, is England 's largest inland county.
The काउंटी पुष्प is the round-leaved sundew.
For Eurostat purposes, the county ( कम the एकात्मक ज़िला of telford और wrekin ) is a nuts 3 region ( code UKG22 ).
The two Shropshire unitary areas ( covering all of the ceremonial काउंटी ), साथ साथ the अधिकारियों covering the ceremonial काउंटी of staffordshire, comprise the `` Shropshire and Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region.
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic Con 2009, इससे बाएँ : कुणाल नय्यर, साइमन helberg, kaley cuoco, जिम Parsons, and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang Theory, created and executive उत्पादित by चक lorre और विधेयक prady, premiered on सीबीएस on सितंबर 24, 2007.
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter, two Caltech physicists ; Penny, a waitress and aspiring actress who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's मित्रों और co-workers aerospace इंजीनियर हावर्ड wolowitz, और astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali.
Over time, several supporting वर्ण have महरूम प्रचारित to अभिनीत भूमिकाएँ : लेस्ली winkle ( ऋतु 1 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 2 नियमित ; ऋतु 3 अतिथि ), a physicist सहयोगी, और, at अलग टाइम्स, a प्रेमी of दोनो लियोनार्ड और हावर्ड ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ), a microbiologist, Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife, and former part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ), who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner, Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ), who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space.
The show also सुविधाएँ numerous supporting वर्ण, प्रत्येक of जिसको plays a prominent role in a small group of episodes.
The a-team is an अमरीकी action-adventure टेलीविज़न श्रेणी, कार्यशील इससे 1983 to 1987, परिचय a fictional समूह of ex– संयुक्त राज्य फौज Special Forces personnel who work as soldiers of fortune, while on the run from the Army after being branded as war criminals for a `` crime they did n't commit ``.
A feature film based on the series was released by 20th सदी फॉक्स on जून 11, 2010.
A comic book series, a-team : shotgun विवाह, began March 9, 2010.
Diana Prince is a fictional character appearing regularly in कहानियां प्रकाशित by dc Comics.
She debuted in Sensation Comics # 1 ( January 1942 ) and serves as the civilian and रहस्य पहचान of the सुपरहीरो Wonder Woman.
The अक्षर थी निर्मित by चार्ल्स Moulton and Harry G. Peter.
Wat Phra kaew, बैंकॉक, थाईलैंड
There is no आधिकारिक राज्य धर्म in the थाई संविधान, जिससे guarantees religious freedom for all Thai citizens, though the king is required by law to be Buddhist.
According to the last census ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of thais हैं बौद्धों of the Theravada tradition.
Muslims are the second largest धार्मिक समूह in थाईलैंड at 4.6 %.
Thailand 's southernmost provinces - Pattani, yala, narathiwat और भाग of songkhla chumphon have प्रबल मुस्लिम populations, consisting of both ethnic Thai and Malay.
the दक्षिणी टिप of थाईलैंड is ज़्यादातर ethnic Malays.
Christians, मुख्यतः catholics, represent 0.7 % of the population.
A small but influential community of Sikhs in Thailand and some Hindus भी सजीव in the देश 's शहरों, और हैं heavily सगाई in खुदरा commerce.
There is also a छोटी यहूदी जातियाँ in थाईलैंड, डेटिंग वापस to the 17th century.
Since 2001, Muslim activists, generally described by the Thai government as terrorists or separatists, have rallied विरूद्ध the सेंट्रल सरकारी क्युकी of कथित भ्रष्टाचार and ethnic bias on the part of officials.
Thailand 's Department of Religion, currently under the Ministry of Culture, is formally जिम्मेदार लिये the पंजीकरण of धार्मिक समूह in थाईलैंड URL_http which hold properties through legally established foundations.
It has oversight, along with the Immigration Police, over the कार्य permits of प्रचारकों जो हैं `` प्रवासी धार्मिक workers '' of all religions.
A मान added कर ( vat ) is a form of consumption tax.
From the perspective of the खरीदार, it is a कर on the खरीदें price.
From that of the seller, it is a tax only on the value added to a product, material, or service, from an accounting point of दृश्य, by इस स्टेज of इसके manufacture or वितरण.
The manufacturer remits to the government the difference between these two amounts, and retains the बाकी लिये themselves to ऑफसेट the कर वे था previously सशुल्क on the inputs.
The मान added to a उत्पाद by or साथ a कारोबार is the बिक्री दाम चार्ज to its customer, minus the cost of materials and other taxable inputs.
A VAT is like a बिक्री कर in कि ultimately only the end consumer is taxed.
It differs from the बिक्री कर in कि, साथ the latter, the कर is एकत्रित and remitted to the government only once, at the point of purchase by the end consumer.
With the VAT, collections, remittances to the सरकारी, और क्रेडिट लिये कर already सशुल्क occur each time a business in the supply chain purchases products.
A referee कॉलिंग a high-sticking penaltyHigh
-sticking is the name of two infractions in the sport of ice hockey that may occur जब a खिलाड़ी intentionally or inadvertently plays साथ उसके or उसके स्टिक ऊपर the height of the shoulders or above the cross bar of a hockey goal.
This can परिणाम in a stoppage of खेल or in a penalty.
In the rules of the National Hockey League, high-sticking is पारिभाषित as a दंड in नियम 60 और as a non-penalty बेईमानी in नियम 80.
A stoppage in play results if a ऊँची स्टिक आता in सम्पर्क साथ the पक और the team who touched it regains control of the puck.
However, play usually continues if a खिलाड़ी छू the पक साथ a ऊँची स्टिक and the opposing team gains control of the puck.
If the puck goes into the opposing net after coming into सम्पर्क साथ a ऊँची स्टिक, the लक्ष्य is प्रतिबंधित.
The level at which a stick is considered too high लिये a लक्ष्य is the crossbar of the जाल.
However, if a खिलाड़ी knocks the पक into उसके अपना जाल साथ a ऊँची stick, the goal is allowed.
A penalty is assessed if a खिलाड़ी हमलों another player with a high stick.
The player is given a minor penalty unless his high stick caused an चोट, in जिससे मामला the रेफरी रै the विकल्प to assess a double-minor, प्रमुख or मैच penalty.
It is the referee 's discretion which penalty to assess : the rule calls for a double minor for an accidental injury, or a मैच दंड लिये a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the विपक्ष खिलाड़ी थी actually injured ).
Injury is प्रायः decided by the ऊँची स्टिक causing bleeding, लकिन the presence of blood does not automatically mean an extra penalty is awarded.
Some referees have been known to award an extra penalty without the presence of blood if the referee determines कि the चोट sustained थी sufficient to वारंट a double-minor penalty.
Typical modern memory card reader, संगत साथ अनेक आम formats
A memory card reader is a device, typically having a usb इंटरफ़ेस, लिये accessing the आंकड़ा on a मेमोरी कार्ड ऐसे as a compactflash ( cf ), सुरक्षित डिजिटल ( SD ) or MultiMediaCard ( MMC ).
Most card पाठक भी प्रस्ताव लिखें काबिलियत, and together with the card, this can function as a pen drive.
Some printers and निजी कंप्यूटर have a built-in card reader.
A multi card reader is used लिये संचार साथ अधिक than एक प्रकार of फ्लैश memory card.
Multi card पाठक do नहीं have built-in मेमोरी capacity, but are able to accept multiple types and styles of memory cards.
The number of compatible memory cards varies इससे रीडर to रीडर और can शामिल अधिक than 20 अलग types.
The क्रमांक of अलग मेमोरी ताश कि a multi card reader can accept is expressed as x-in-1, with x being a figure of merit indicating the number of memory cards accepted, such as 35-in-1.
There are three श्रेणी of कार्ड पाठक sorted by the प्रकार और मात्रा of the कार्ड slots : single card reader ( e.g. 1x SD-only ), multi card reader ( e.g. 9-in-1 ) and series card reader ( e.g. 4x SD only ).
Some kinds of memory cards with their own USB कृत्यों do नहीं need the कार्ड रीडर, ऐसे as the बुद्धिमान स्टिक मेमोरी card, which can plug directly into a USB slot.
The usb यंत्र क्लास used is 0x08.
धमकाना is हानिकारक to students ' well-being and development.
Bullying is the उपयोग of फ़ोर्स or coercion to abuse or intimidate others.
The बर्ताव can be habitual और involve an imbalance of social or physical power.
It can include verbal harassment or threat, शारीरिक उत्पीड़न or coercion और may be निर्देशित repeatedly towards particular पीड़ितों, perhaps on grounds of race, religion, gender, sexuality, or ability.
If bullying is done by a समूह, it is पुकारा mobbing.
The victim of bullying is sometimes referred to as a `` target ''.
Bullying can be पारिभाषित in अनेक different ways.
The UK फिलहाल रै no विधिक परिभाषा of धमकाना, जबकि कुछ U.S. states have laws against it.
Bullying consists of three basic types of abuse – emotional, मौखिक, और शारीरिक.
It typically involves हल्का विधि of coercion such as intimidation.
Bullying ranges from simple one-on-one धमकाना to अधिक जटिल धमकाना in जिससे the बुली may have एक or अधिक `` lieutenants '' who may seem to be willing to assist the primary bully in his or her bullying activities.
Bullying in school and the कार्यस्थल is भी referred to as पीर abuse.
Robert W. फुलर रै analyzed धमकाना in the context of rankism.
A धमकाना संस्कृति can develop in कोई कॉन्टेक्स्ट in जिससे इंसान beings interact with each other.
इस शामिल स्कूल, गिरिजाघर, family, the workplace, home, and neighborhoods.
प्रसन्न slapping in the instituto Regional Federico Errázuriz, Santa Cruz, Chile
Laura Bush and Rae Leigh Bradbury ( formerly missing ) on April 4, 2007, in Austin, Texas, बाद the 8-year-old introduced mrs. बुश दौरान घोषणा of the भविष्य खोलने of the टेक्सास क्षेत्रीय दफ्तर of the नेशनल बीच लिये लापता and Exploited Children.
Rae Leigh was the पहला चाइल्ड in the u.S. to be बरामद as a result of an AMBER Alert when she was 8 weeks old in November 1998.
An AMBER Alert or a Child abduction आपात ( वही कोड : cae ) is a चाइल्ड abduction चेतावनी system originating in 1996, now employed in 9 countries.
एम्बर is officially a backronym लिये अमेरिका 's लापता : Broadcasting Emergency Response, named for Amber Hagerman, a 9-year-old abducted and murdered in Arlington, Texas in 1996.
Alternate regional alert names were once used ; in Georgia, `` Levi 's Call '' ( named after Levi Frady ) ; in हवाई, `` maile एम्बर चेतावनी '' ( बाद maile गिल्बर्ट ) ; और अरकंसास, `` Morgan Nick Amber Alert '' ( in memory of Morgan Chauntel Nick ).
AMBER Alerts are distributed via commercial radio stations, Internet रेडियो, उपग्रह रेडियो, टेलीविज़न स्टेशन, और केबल tv by the आपात चेतावनी प्रणाली और noaa मौसम रेडियो ( where they are termed `` Child Abduction Emergency '' or `` Amber Alerts '' ).
The alerts are also issued via e-mail, electronic traffic-condition लक्षण, the led billboards जिससे हैं स्तिथ बाहर of नए walgreens स्थितियाँ, साथ साथ the led/lcd लक्षण of बिलबोर्ड companies such as Clear Channel Outdoor, CBS Outdoor and Lamar, or through wireless device SMS text messages.
AMBER Alert रै भी teamed up साथ google और फेसबुक to रिले सूचना regarding an AMBER Alert to an ever growing demographic.
Those interested in subscribing to receive AMBER Alerts in their area via SMS messages can visit Wireless एम्बर चेतावनियाँ, जिससे हैं offered by विधि as फ़्री messages.
In some states, the display scrollboards in सामने of लॉटरी terminals are also used.
The decision to घोषित an एम्बर चेतावनी is बना by प्रत्येक पुलिस संगठन ( in अनेक मामले, the राज्य पुलिस or राजमार्ग patrol ) which investigates each of the abductions.
पब्लिक सूचना in an एम्बर चेतावनी प्रायः consists of the नाम और वर्णन of the abductee, a वर्णन of the suspected abductor, and a description and license plate number of the abductor 's vehicle, if available.
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23, 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States अध्यक्ष विधेयक क्लिंटन admitted to having था an `` improper संबंध '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996.
The affair and its परखना ( जिससे शामिल क्लिंटन 's महाभियोग ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal.
House of Night is a series of vampire -themed काल्पनिक novels by अमरीकी लेखक P. C. Cast and her daughter Kristin Cast.
It follows the adventures of zoey redbird, a sixteen-year-old लड़की जो रै बस become a `` fledgling vampyre '' and is required to attend the House of Night boarding school in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
The series has been on the नई यॉर्क टाइम्स बेहतरीन विक्रेता सूची लिये 63 सप्ताह और वहीँ हैं over सात लाख नक़ल in print in North America alone.
The sixth novel, Tempted, which went on sale on October 27, 2009 with a पहला मुद्रण of a लाख नक़ल, डाला the यूएसए आज bestseller list that week at # 1.
In January, 2010, gezeichnet, a जर्मनी अनुवाद of चिह्नित, reached the # 1 spot on the Der Spiegel bestseller list.
The series has so दूर बेची अधिक than टेन लाख books in 39 countries.
Burned was released on April 27, 2010, and like इम्तिहान, it डाला the यूएसए आज बेस्टसेलर सूची that week at # 1.
awakened, released in जनवरी, 2011, also entered the list at # 1.
The series, which is प्रकाशित by st मार्टिन 's दबायें is नियोजित to include twelve books.
In 2008, plans for a film अनुकूलन यहूद भी घोषित.
The tenth book in the series, छुपा, थी released on अक्तूबर 16, 2012.
The second book in the novellas ( which give पृष्ठभूमि on supporting वर्ण ), lenobia 's Vow, was released January 31, 2012.
किताब ग्यारह is फिलहाल पुकारा नाज़िल, और the casts have घोषित कि दो अधिक novellas, Neferet’s Curse, planned to be released February 19, 2013, and a prequel novel about Kalona, are to be released to coincide with the eleventh and twelfth books.
In Greek mythology, the Trojan War was waged विरूद्ध the नगर of ट्रॉय by the achaeans ( यूनानियों ) बाद पेरिस of ट्रॉय took Helen from her husband Menelaus king of Sparta.
The war is one of the most important events in Greek mythology and has been narrated through many works of Greek साहित्य, सबसे notably through होमर 's इलियड और the ओडिसी.
The Iliad relates a part of the पिछला साल of the घेरा of ट्रॉय ; the ओडिसी describes Odysseus 's journey home.
Other parts of the war are contained in a साईकिल of एपिक कविताएं, जिससे have बच through fragments.
एपीसोड इससे the युद्ध provided सामग्री लिये यूनानी त्रासदी और अन्य works of Greek literature, and for Roman poets including Virgil and Ovid.
The war originated इससे a झगड़ा between the देवियाँ एथेना, hera, और aphrodite, बाद eris, the देवी of संघर्ष और अनबन, gave them a golden apple, sometimes known as the Apple of Discord, marked `` for the fairest ''.
Zeus sent the देवियाँ to पेरिस, जो judged कि aphrodite, as the `` fairest '', should receive the apple.
in एक्सचेंज, aphrodite बना हेलेन, the सबसे खूबसूरत of सब महिलाओं और बीवी of Menelaus, fall in love with Paris, who took her to Troy.
Agamemnon, king of Mycenae और the bhai of हेलेन 's husband menelaus, led an expedition of Achaean troops to Troy and besieged the city for ten years because of Paris ' insult.
After the deaths of many heroes, including the achaeans achilles और अजाक्स, और the ट्रोजन्स हेक्टर और पेरिस, the नगर गिरी to the ruse of the Trojan Horse.
the achaeans slaughtered the ट्रोजन्स ( मगर लिये कुछ of the महिलाओं and children whom they kept or sold as slaves ) and desecrated the temples, thus earning the gods ' wrath.
Few of the Achaeans returned सकुशल to उनके घरों और अनेक संस्थापित colonies in दूर shores.
The Romans later traced their origin to Aeneas, one of the Trojans, who was said to have led the surviving ट्रोजन्स to modern-day Italy.
The ancient यूनानियों विचार कि the trojan युद्ध थी a ऐतिहासिक इवेंट कि था लिया प्लेस in the 13th or 12th सदी BC, and believed that Troy was located in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles.
By modern times, दोनो the युद्ध और the नगर यहूद widely believed to be non-historical.
In 1868, however, the जर्मनी पुरातत्ववेत्ताओं heinrich schliemann मिले फ़्रैंक calvert, जो कायल schliemann कि ट्रॉय थी at hissarlik और schliemann took over calvert 's excavations on property belonging to Calvert ; this claim is now accepted by most scholars.
Whether there is any historical वास्तविकता पीछे the trojan युद्ध is an खोलें question.
Many scholars believe that there is a historical core to the tale, though this may बस औसत कि the homeric कहानियां हैं a संलयन of विभिन्न किस्से of sieges और रिझाने by माइसीनियाई Greeks during the Bronze Age.
those जो मानना कि the कहानियां of the trojan युद्ध हैं निकला इससे a विशिष्ट ऐतिहासिक विरोध usually date it to the 12th or 11th centuries BC, often preferring the dates given by Eratosthenes, 1194–1184 BC, which roughly corresponds with archaeological evidence of a catastrophic burning of Troy VIIa.
Anarchists have employed certain symbols for their कारण, सहित सबसे prominently the circle-a और the ब्लैक ध्वज, हालांकि anarchists have historically largely denied the importance of symbols to political movement.
Since the revival of anarchism around the start of the 21st-century संयुक्त साथ the वृद्धि of the anti-globalization गति, अराजकतावादी cultural symbols are widely present.
The greater palatine canal ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a passage in the कपाल कि transmits the वृहद palatine धमनी, रग, और तंत्रिका between the pterygopalatine fossa and the oral cavity.
Surface temperature of Antarctica in शीत और गर्मियाँ इससे the यूरोपीय केन्द्र लिये Medium-Range Weather Forecasts
The climate of अंटार्कटिक is the coldest on the whole of Earth.
Antarctica has the lowest naturally occurring तापमान कभी अंकित on the मैदान on धरती : −89.2 °c ( −128.6 °f ) at Vostok Station.
It is also extremely dry ( technically a मरुस्थल ), averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of वर्षण per year.
Even so, on most parts of the continent the snow rarely melts और is आखिरकार संपीडित to become the glacial ice that makes up the ice sheet.
मौसम fronts rarely घुस far into the continent.
Most of Antarctica has an ice cap climate ( Köppen EF ) साथ बहुत ठंडा, generally अत्यधिक शुष्क मौसम throughout the साल और no माह averaging above 0 °C ( 32 °F ).
Some fringe coastal areas have a tundra climate ( köppen et ) साथ a छोटी गर्मियाँ averaging ऊपर जमने, और much higher precipitation.
वर्तमान सिर कोच माइक Tomlin, during the 2007 season
The Pittsburgh स्टीलर्स मताधिकार रै था 16 सिर कोच throughout its history.
Founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates in, the नाम थी बदला to the स्टीलर्स prior to the ऋतु to celebrate the नगर 's heritage of producing steel.
Joe Bach served two separate terms as सिर कोच और वॉल्ट kiesling परोसा तीन separate terms.
During the और सीज़न, due to the राशि of खिलाड़ी जो लड़ा in World War II, the Steelers combined their team with Philadelphia and Chicago, respectively.
During these seasons, स्टीलर्स ' कोच वॉल्ट kiesling साझा कोचिंग कर्तव्य साथ चिकनी neale और फिल हैंडलर, who have not been included within this list.
Struggling for much of the मताधिकार 's जल्दी सालो, the टोली 's पहला ऋतु साथ अधिक विन्स than नुकसान थी coached by Jock Sutherland in.
In, अंतर्गत sutherland, the स्टीलर्स निभाई उनके पहला playoff game against the Philadelphia Eagles.
Ten of the 16 head coaches spent their संपूर्ण पेशेवर कोचिंग करियर साथ the मताधिकार, सहित जॉन mcnally, वॉल्ट kiesling और चक noll, जो have also been voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
One of only four men to coach the वही टोली लिये 23 सालो, चक Noll retired in.
Noll is also the only coach in National Football League history to जीत चार सुपर प्याले.
Bill cowher, noll 's बदलना, coached the स्टीलर्स to उनके पांचवां Super Bowl victory, in 2005.
The Steelers sixth Super Bowl win came in Super कटोरी xliii, जबकि सिर coached by Mike Tomlin, the team 's current head coach.
In criminal law, धोखाधड़ी is जानबूझकर deception बना लिये निजी लाभ or to क्षति another व्यक्तिगत ; the related adjective is fraudulent, and verb is defraud.
Fraud is a crime and a civil law उल्लंघन, हालांकि the विशिष्ट दण्ड विधि definition varies by legal jurisdiction.
Defrauding people or entities of money or valuables is a आम purpose of धोखाधड़ी.
A hoax also involves deception, but without the इरादे of लाभ or of damaging or depriving the victim.
Fraud is a defense in a सिविल कार्रवाई लिये उल्लंघन of contract or specific performance of a contract.
Fraud is a आधार लिये निष्पक्ष jurisdiction.
Passover, or Pesach ( from : in Hebrew, Yiddish ), Tiberian :, Modern यहूदी : /ˈpesaχ/ pesah, pesakh, यहूदी : peysekh, paysakh, paysokh ) is an important Biblically -derived Jewish festival.
Historically, together with Shavuot ( `` Pentecost '' ) and Sukkot ( `` झोपड़ियों '' ), passover is एक of the तीन यात्राएं त्यौहार ( Shalosh Regalim ) during which the entire population of the kingdom of Judah made a pilgrimage to the Temple in Jerusalem.
Samaritans स्टिल मेक इस यात्राएं to माउंट gerizim, but only men participate in public worship.
Passover commences on the 15th of the Hebrew month of Nisan and lasts for either seven days ( in इसराईल ) or आठ दिनों ( in the diaspora ).
In Judaism, a day commences at dusk and lasts until the following dusk, thus the first day of Passover तभी begins बाद संध्या of the 14th of nisan और ends at dusk of the 15th day of the month of Nisan.
The rituals unique to the passover जश्न commence साथ the passover Seder when the 15th of Nisan has begun.
in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध Passover takes place in spring as the Torah prescribes it : `` in the month of [ the ] spring '' ( בחדש האביב ).
it is एक of the सबसे widely observed Jewish holidays.
The Jewish people celebrate Passover as a commemoration of their liberation over 3,300 years ago by God इससे गुलामी in प्राचीन मिश्र कि थी शासित by the pharaohs, और उनके जनम as a nation under the leadership of Moses.
It commemorates the story of the exodus as वर्णित in the यहूदी बाइबल विशेषकर in the किताब of exodus, in which the Israelites were freed from slavery in Egypt.
In the कथा of the exodus, the बाइबल tells कि परमेश्वर helped the children of इसराईल एस्केप इससे their slavery in Egypt by inflicting ten plagues upon the ancient Egyptians before the Pharaoh would release his Israelite slaves ; the tenth and worst of the plagues was the death of the Egyptian first-born.
The Israelites were instructed to mark the doorposts of their homes साथ the रक्त of a slaughtered वसन्त मेमने और, upon देखकर इस, the स्पिरिट of the रब knew to pass over the first-born in ये घरों, hence the नाम of the holiday.
There is some debate over जहाँ the पद is दरअसल निकला from.
When the Pharaoh freed the israelites, it is कहा कि वे बाएँ in such a hurry that they could not wait for bread dough to rise ( leaven ).
In commemoration, लिये the अवधि of passover no leavened ब्रैड is खाया, लिये जिससे reason it is called `` The Festival of the Unleavened Bread ''.
Thus Matzo ( चपटा unleavened ब्रैड ) is खाया दौरान Passover and it is a symbol of the holiday.
हैली 's धूमकेतु or धूमकेतु हैली ( or ), officially designated 1P/Halley, is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years.
Halley is the only short-period धूमकेतु कि is clearly दृश्य to the नग्न नजर इससे धरती, और यूँ the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime.
Other naked-eye comets may be उज्जवल और अधिक spectacular, लकिन होगा appear तभी once in thousands of years.
Halley 's रिटर्न to the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली have महरूम observed और recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE.
Clear records of the comet 's appearances यहूद बना by चाइनीज, babylonian, और मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय chroniclers, लकिन यहूद नहीं पहचाना as reappearances of the same object at the time.
The comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी astronomer edmond हैली, बाद जिसको it is now named.
हैली 's धूमकेतु पिछला appeared in the भीतरी Solar System in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061.
दौरान इसके 1986 apparition, हैली became the पहला धूमकेतु to be observed in विवरण by spacecraft, providing the first observational data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation.
These observations समर्थित a क्रमांक of longstanding hypotheses परिचय धूमकेतु निर्माण, विशेषकर फ्रेड whipple 's `` गंदा स्नोबॉल '' model, which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water, carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust.
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is now understood that हैली 's सतह is largely रचित of dusty, non-volatile सामग्री, और कि तभी a छोटी portion of it is icy.
anti-communism is विपक्ष to communism.
Organized anti-communism developed in reaction to the वृद्धि of साम्यवादी, विशेषकर बाद the 1917 अक्तूबर क्रान्ति in रूस और reaching वैश्विक dimensions during the Cold War.
Most anti-communists reject the अवधारणा of ऐतिहासिक भौतिकवाद, जिससे is a central idea in Marxism.
anti-communists अस्वीकृत the मार्क्सवादी विश्वास कि पूंजीवाद होगा be followed by समाजवादी and communism, just as feudalism was followed by capitalism.
Anti-communists question the वैध of the मार्क्सवादी अर्जी कि the समाजवादी राज्य होगा `` wither दूर '' जब it becomes unnecessary in a true communist society.
Anti-communists argue that the दमन in the जल्दी सालो of bolshevik नियम, जबकि नहीं as चरम as कि दौरान जोसेफ स्टालिन 's नियम, was still severe by reasonable standards, citing examples such as Felix Dzerzhinsky 's secret police, which eliminated numerous political opponents by extrajudicial executions, and the brutal crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion and Tambov rebellion.
Some anti-communists refer to both Communism and fascism as सर्वसत्तावाद, देखकर समानता between the क्रियाएँ of communist and fascist governments.
Historian Robert Conquest has argued कि साम्यवादी थी जिम्मेदार लिये tens of millions of deaths during the 20th century.
Opponents argue that Communist parties that have come to शक्ति have tended to be rigidly असहिष्णु of राजनैतिक opposition.
These opponents claim कि सबसे कम्युनिस्ट देशों have दिखाया no लक्षण of advancing इससे मार्क्स 's समाजवादी stage of economy to an ideal communist stage.
Rather, Communist governments have been accused of creating a new ruling क्लास ( a nomenklatura ), साथ शक्तियां और privileges वृहद than those previously enjoyed by the upper classes in the non- communist regimes.
Gil Heron ( 9 April 1922 – 27 November 2008 ) was a jamaican पेशेवर footballer.
He was the first black player to play for स्कॉटिश क्लबों सेल्टिक, और थी the पिता of कवि and musician Gil Scott-Heron.
He died in Detroit of a दिल आक्रमण on 27 नवम्बर 2008.
The soybean ( US ) or soya bean ( UK ) ( Glycine max ) is a species of legume native to East एशिया, widely grown लिये इसके खाद्य सेम जिससे रै numerous उपयोग.
The संयंत्र is classed as an oilseed बल्कि than a pulse by the UN Food and Agricultural Organization ( FAO ).
fat-free ( defatted ) सोयाबीन भोजन is a significant और सस्ती सोर्स of प्रोटीन लिये एनिमल feeds and many prepackaged meals ; soy vegetable oil is another product of processing the soybean crop.
For example, soybean products such as textured सब्ज़ी प्रोटीन ( tvp ) हैं संघटक in many meat and dairy analogues.
Soybeans produce significantly अधिक प्रोटीन प्रति एकड़ than most other uses of land.
Traditional nonfermented खाना उपयोग of soybeans शामिल सोया मिल्क, and from the latter tofu and tofu skin.
fermented भोजन शामिल सोया सॉस, fermented bean paste, natto, and tempeh, among others.
The oil is used in अनेक औद्योगिक अनुप्रयोग.
The main producers of soy are the United States ( 35 % ), Brazil ( 27 % ), अर्जेंटीना ( 19 % ), चीन ( 6 % ) and India ( 4 % ).
The beans contain significant amounts of phytic एसिड, alpha-linolenic acid, and isoflavones.
हैरिसन घाट ( born जुलाई 13, 1942 ) is an American film actor and producer.
He is famous for his प्रदर्शन as हान सोलो in the असली स्टार युद्धों त्रयी और the शीर्षक अक्षर of the इंडियाना जोन्स film series.
Ford is also known for his roles as Rick Deckard in Blade Runner, जॉन किताब in गवाह और जोकर रयान in patriot खेल और साफ और उपस्थित Danger.
His career has spanned six decades and includes roles in several Hollywood blockbusters, सहित presumed निर्दोष, the भगोड़े, एयर फ़ोर्स एक, और कया Lies Beneath.
At one point, four of the शीर्ष छह box-office हिट्स of all time included one of his roles.
Five of his films have been inducted into the नेशनल Film Registry.
In 1997, Ford was ranked No. 1 in साम्राज्य `` the शीर्ष 100 फिल्म सितारों of All Time '' list.
, the United States domestic बक्सा दफ्तर grosses of घाट 's films कुल over us $ 3.5 अरब, साथ विश्वव्यापी grosses surpassing $ 6 billion, making Ford the third highest grossing U.S. domestic box-office star.
घाट is the husband of actress Calista Flockhart.
a ट्यूब of ChapStick
ChapStick is a brand name for lip balm manufactured by फाइजर उपभोक्ता healthcare और प्रयुक्त in अनेक देशों विश्वव्यापी.
It is intended to help treat and prevent chapped होठ ; hence the नाम.
Many varieties also include sunscreen in अनुक्रम to prevent sunburn.
Due to इसके लोकप्रियता, the पद रै become a genericized trademark.
It popularly refers to any lip balm contained in a lipstick-style tube और लागू in the वही manner as लिपस्टिक.
However, the पद is स्टिल a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क, साथ rights exclusively owned by Pfizer.
In Sweden and in the United Kingdom, the product 's main competitor is Lypsyl, made by novartis उपभोक्ता स्वास्थ्य, जिससे is वितरित in समान पैकेजिंग to ChapStick.
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514 January 1753 ), also known as Bishop Berkeley ( Bishop of Cloyne ), was an Anglo-Irish philosopher whose primary achievement थी the उन्नति of a सिद्धान्त he पुकारा `` immaterialism '' ( बाद referred to as `` subjective आदर्शवाद `` by अन्य ).
This सिद्धान्त झुठलाए the अस्तित्व of सामग्री पदार्थ और बजाय contends कि परिचित वस्तुएँ जैसे टेबल and chairs are only ideas in the minds of perceivers, and as a result can not exist without being perceived.
Thus, as Berkeley famously put it, लिये शारीरिक वस्तुएँ `` esse est percipi '' ( `` to be is to be perceived `` ).
Berkeley is also known for his critique of abstraction, an महत्वपूर्ण आधार in उसके तर्क for immaterialism.
In 1709, बर्कली प्रकाशित उसके पहला प्रमुख कार्य,, in जिससे he discussed the सीमाएं of इंसान दृष्टि और उन्नत the सिद्धान्त that the proper objects of sight are not material objects, but light and colour.
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical work A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge in 1710 जिससे, बाद इसके ग़रीब रिसेप्शन, he rewrote in संवाद रूप और प्रकाशित अंतर्गत the शीर्षक तीन संवाद between Hylas and Philonous in 1713.
In this book, Berkeley 's views were represented by Philonous ( Greek : 'lover of दिमाग ' ), जबकि hylas ( यूनानी : 'मैटr ' ) embodies the आयरिश thinker’s प्रतिद्वंद्वियों, in particular John Locke.
Berkeley argued against Sir Isaac Newton 's doctrine of निरपेक्ष स्पेस, समय और गति in de मोटू ( on गति ), published 1721.
His arguments यहूद a precursor to the views of Mach and Einstein.
In 1732, he published Alciphron, a Christian क्षमाप्रार्थी विरूद्ध the free-thinkers, और in 1734, he प्रकाशित the विश्लेषक, an empiricist critique of the मूलाधार of infinitesimal calculus, which was influential in the development of mathematics.
His last major philosophical work, Siris ( 1744 ), begins by advocating the medicinal use of tar water, and तब continues to discuss a चौड़ी दायरा of विषय सहित विज्ञान, philosophy, and theology.
Interest in Berkeley 's work increased after World War II, because he tackled many of the issues of paramount interest to दर्शनशास्त्र in the 20th सदी ऐसे as the समस्याएं of बोध, the अंतर between प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक qualities, और the महत्व of भाषा.
Qingdao ( ), historically known as Tsingtao, is a प्रमुख नगर in पूर्वी शानदोंग प्रांत, पूर्वी चीन, साथ a जनसांख्यिकी of over 8.715 million ( 2010 census ).
Its built up area, made of 6 urban districts and 4 county-level शहरों, is घर to परिचय 4,896,000 निवासियों in 2010.
It borders Yantai to the northeast, Weifang to the वेस्ट और rizhao to the southwest.
Qīng ( ) in Chinese means `` ग्रीन '' or `` रसीले '', जबकि dǎo ( ) अर्थात् `` द्वीप ''.
Qingdao is administered at the sub-provincial level.
Lying आरपार the शानदोंग प्रायद्वीप जबकि looking आउट to the पीला समुद्र, Qingdao is a major seaport, naval base, and industrial centre.
It is भी the साईट of the Tsingtao Brewery.
The world 's longest sea सेतु, the चिंगदाओ haiwan सेतु, कड़ी the प्रमुख शहरी क्षेत्रफल of Qingdao with Huangdao district, straddling the Jiaozhou Bay sea areas.
Qingdao is named China 's सबसे livable city.
Mimivirus is a वाइरल genus containing a सिंगल पहचाना प्रजाति नामित acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( apmv ), or is a group of phylogenetically related large viruses ( designated usually MimiN ).
In colloquial speech, APMV is more commonly referred to as बस `` mimivirus ''.
Until October 2011, जब a larger वायरस megavirus chilensis थी वर्णित, it था the largest capsid diameter of all known viruses.
Mimivirus has a विशाल और जटिल genome compared साथ most other viruses.
Mimivirus, short for `` mimicking microbe '', is so पुकारा to प्रतिबिंबित इसके विशाल आकार और apparent gram-staining properties.
The Mexican War of स्वतंत्रता ( 1810–1821 ) थी an हथियारबंद विरोध between the people of Mexico and the Spanish colonial authorities which started on September 16, 1810.
The movement, which became known as the Mexican War of Independence, was led by mexican-born spaniards, mestizos and Amerindians who sought independence from Spain.
It started as an idealistic peasants ' rebellion against उनके औपनिवेशिक मास्टर्स, लकिन ended as an असंभावित गठबंधन between Mexican ex-royalists and Mexican guerrilla insurgents.
Crohn 's disease, also known as crohn सिंड्रोम और क्षेत्रीय enteritis, is a प्रकार of जलन bowel disease that may affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus, causing a wide variety of symptoms.
It primarily causes abdominal pain, अतिसार ( जिससे may be खूनी if सूजन is at इसके worst ), उल्टी ( can be निरन्तर ), or वज़न घाटा, लकिन may भी कारण जटिलताओं बाहर the जठरांत्र ट्रैक्ट such as skin rashes, arthritis, inflammation of the eye, tiredness, and lack of concentration.
Crohn 's बीमारी is caused by interactions between पर्यावरणीय, immunological and bacterial factors in genetically susceptible individuals.
This results in a chronic inflammatory disorder, in which the body 's immune system attacks the जठरांत्र ट्रैक्ट संभवतः निर्देशित at सूक्ष्मजैविक antigens.
Crohn 's disease has wrongly been described as an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in the पास्ट ; हाल जांचकर्ताओं have वर्णित it as an immune deficiency state.
There is a genetic association with Crohn 's disease, primarily with variations of the nod2 जीन और इसके प्रोटीन, जिससे senses bacterial cell walls.
Siblings of affected individuals हैं at उच्चतर risk.
Males and females हैं बराबर प्रभावित.
Smokers are two times more likely to develop crohn 's बीमारी than nonsmokers.
crohn 's बीमारी affects between 400,000 और 600,000 people in North America.
व्यापकता estimates लिये उत्तरी यूरोपीय have ranged from 27–48 per 100,000.
Crohn 's disease tends to present initially in the teens and twenties, with another peak incidence in the fifties to seventies, हालांकि the बीमारी can occur at any age.
There is no known फार्मास्युटिकल or सर्जिकल इलाज़ लिये crohn 's disease.
Treatment options हैं प्रतिबंधित to controlling लक्षण, maintaining remission, और preventing relapse.
The disease was named after gastroenterologist Burrill बर्नार्ड crohn, जो, in 1932, साथ साथ दो अन्य सहयोगियों at माउंट sinai हॉस्पिटल in नई यॉर्क, वर्णित a श्रेणी of patients with inflammation of the terminal ileum, the area most commonly affected by the illness.
This is an incomplete list of the tallest इमारतें और structures by देश.
The list directly शामिल the tallest इमारतें और structures लिये प्रत्येक देश, और where appropriate, it also points to more detailed country-specific lists.
Rough and Ready is a census-designated place in नेवाडा काउंटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, संयुक्त राज्य.
It is स्तिथ वेस्ट of ग्रास घाटी, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, लगभग 62 miles ( 100 km ) from Sacramento.
The population was 963 at the 2010 census.
YouTube is a video-sharing website, निर्मित by तीन पूर्व paypal कर्मचारी in फ़रवरी 2005, on जिससे उपयोक्ता can अपलोड, view and share videos.
The company is based in San Bruno, California, and uses Adobe Flash Video and HTML5 technology to display a wide variety of user-generated video content, including movie क्लिप्स, tv क्लिप्स, और म्यूज़िक वीडियो, as खूब as amateur content such as video blogging, short original videos, and educational videos.
Most of the content on YouTube has been uploaded by individuals, although media corporations सहित सीबीएस, the बीबीसी, vevo, hulu, और अन्य संगठन प्रस्ताव कुछ of उनके सामग्री via the site, as part of the YouTube partnership program.
Unregistered users can देखें वीडियो, जबकि पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता can upload an unlimited number of videos.
Videos माना to contain potentially अप्रिय सामग्री are available only to registered users at least 18 years old.
In November 2006, YouTube, LLC was खरीदा by google लिये us $ 1.65 अरब, और operates as a subsidiary of Google.
Sister Act is a musical लिखा by cheri steinkellner और विधेयक steinkellner साथ अतिरिक्त किताब सामग्री by Douglas Carter Beane, with lyrics by Glenn Slater and music by Alan Menken.
It is based on the hit 1992 फिल्मी कॉमेडी of the same name.
The 2009 West End production was produced by स्टेज entertainment, whoopi गोल्डबर्ग, और माइकल रेनो लिये Sis Acts LLC.
गोल्डबर्ग is भी a producer of the 2011 Broadway adaptation.
Microsoft DirectX is a collection of application programming अंतरफलक ( api ) लिये हैंडलिंग कार्य सम्बन्धित to मल्टीमीडिया, विशेषकर game programming and video, on Microsoft platforms.
originally, the names of ये api सब began साथ सीधा, ऐसे as direct3d, DirectDraw, DirectMusic, DirectPlay, DirectSound, and so forth.
The name DirectX was coined as आशुलिपि पद लिये सब of ये api ( the x खड़ा in लिये the particular api names ) and soon became the name of the collection.
When Microsoft later set out to develop a गेमिंग कंसोल, the x थी प्रयुक्त as the आधार of the नाम एक्सबॉक्स to indicate that the console was based on DirectX technology.
The X initial has महरूम carried आगे in the नामकरण of api designed लिये the एक्सबॉक्स ऐसे as xinput और the cross-platform Audio Creation Tool ( XACT ), while the DirectX pattern has been continued for Windows APIs such as Direct2D and DirectWrite.
Direct3D ( the 3D graphics api भीतर डाइरेक्टएक्स ) is widely प्रयुक्त in the विकास of वीडियो खेल लिये microsoft खिड़कियाँ, microsoft एक्सबॉक्स, Microsoft Xbox 360 and some Sega Dreamcast games.
Direct3D is also used by other software applications for visualization और ग्राफिक्स कार्य ऐसे as cad/cam अभियान्त्रिकी.
As Direct3D is the most widely publicized component of DirectX, it is आम to देखिए the names `` डाइरेक्टएक्स '' और `` direct3d '' used interchangeably.
The DirectX software development kit ( SDK ) consists of runtime पुस्तकालयों in redistributable binary form, along with accompanying documentation and headers for use in coding.
originally, the runtimes यहूद तभी installed by games or explicitly by the user.
Windows 95 did not launch with DirectX, but DirectX थी शामिल साथ खिड़कियाँ 95 OEM Service Release 2.
Windows 98 and Windows nt 4.0 दोनो shipped साथ डाइरेक्टएक्स, as रै प्रत्येक संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ released since.
The SDK is उपलब्धियाँ as a फ़्री डाउनलोड.
While the runtimes are proprietary, closed-source software, सोर्स कोड is provided लिये सबसे of the sdk नमूने.
Starting with the release of Windows 8 Developer Preview, DirectX sdk रै महरूम एकीकृत into खिड़कियाँ sdk.
Direct3D 9Ex, Direct3D 10, and Direct3D 11 are only available for Windows Vista and newer क्युकी प्रत्येक of ये नई संस्करण थी निर्मित to निर्भर upon the नई खिड़कियाँ प्रदर्शक ड्राइवर मॉडल that was introduced for Windows Vista.
The new Vista/WDDM graphics architecture includes a नई वीडियो मेमोरी मैनेजर supporting आभासीकरण of ग्राफिक्स हार्डवेयर लिये various applications and services like the Desktop Window Manager.
Quetzaltenango, also commonly known by its indigenous name, xelajú, or अधिक commonly, xela, is the दूसरी largest नगर of ग्वाटेमाला.
It is both the पूंजी of quetzaltenango Department and the municipal seat of Quetzaltenango municipality.
It रै an अनुमानित population of 224,703.
the जनसांख्यिकी is परिचय 61 % स्वदेशी or amerindian, 34 % Mestizo or ladino and 5 % European.
Quetzaltenango is located in a mountain घाटी at an उन्नयन of 2,330 मीटर ( 7,655 ft ) ऊपर समुद्र स्तर at इसके lowest part.
It may reach above 2,400 मीटर भीतर the city.
The Municipality of quetzaltenango consists of an area of.
Municipalities abutting the municipality of Quetzaltenango include : Salcajá, Cantel, Almolonga, Zunil, El Palmar, concepción chiquirichapa, सैन mateo, la esperanza, olintepeque, और San Andrés Xecul.
All these municipalities are part of the विभाग of quetzaltenango, मगर सैन आन्द्रेस xecul which is a part of the Department of Totonicapán.
The Epic of Gilgamesh, an epic poem from मेसोपोटामिया, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature.
the साहित्यिक इतिहास of gilgamesh begins साथ पाँच स्वतंत्र Sumerian poems about 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ), king of Uruk.
Four of these were प्रयुक्त as सोर्स सामग्री for a combined epic in Akkadian.
This first combined epic, known as the `` Old Babylonian '' version, dates to the 18th सदी bc और is titled बाद इसके incipit, shūtur एली sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ).
Only a few fragments of it have survived.
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th centuries BC and bears the incipit शा naqba īmuru ( `` he जो देखी the Deep '' ).
fragments of लगभग दो thirds of this longer, twelve-tablet version have been recovered.
कुछ of the बेहतरीन नक़ल यहूद खोजा in the पुस्तकालयों तबाह of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal.
The story centers on a दोस्ती between gilgamesh and Enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as Gilgamesh 's बराबर to distract उसे इससे oppressing the लोगों of uruk.
Together, they यात्रा to the देवदार पहाड़ to शिकस्त humbaba, इसके monstrous guardian.
Later they kill the सांड of स्वर्ग, जिससे the देवी इश्तार भेजना to सजा gilgamesh for spurning her advances.
As a दंड लिये ये क्रियाएँ, the देवताओं sentence Enkidu to death.
The second half of the epic focuses on gilgamesh 's तकलीफ at enkidu 's मौत, और उसके quest for immortality.
In order to learn the secret of अनन्त जीवन, gilgamesh undertakes a long and perilous journey.
He learns that `` the जीवन कि तुम हैं seeking तुम होगा never find.
When the gods created man they आवंटित to उसे मौत, लकिन जीवन वे retained in उनके अपना keeping. ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the बूढ़ा babylonian संस्करण of the एपिक, और तब attributed to the अमर बाढ़ नायिका utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic.
Nevertheless, Gilgamesh 's fame lived on बाद उसके मौत, क्युकी of उसके ग्रेट भवन projects, and his account of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood.
The story has been translated into many different languages, and gilgamesh रै चूंकि become adapted in works of popular fiction.
There are numerous debates over जो निर्मित the पहला वीडियो खेल, साथ the जवाब depending largely on how video games are defined.
The evolution of video games represents a tangled web of several अलग उद्योग, सहित वैज्ञानिक, कंप्यूटर, आर्केड, and consumer electronics.
The `` वीडियो '' in `` वीडियो खेल `` traditionally refers to a raster display device.
With the लोकप्रिय कैच phrase उपयोग of the पद `` वीडियो खेल '', the पद अभी implies all display types, formats, and platforms.
Historians have भी sought to बायपास the समस्या by बजाय using the अधिक विशिष्ट `` digital games '' descriptive.
इस पद पत्ते आउट the पहले analog-based computer games.
This is a list of best-selling वीडियो खेल franchises that have sold or shipped at least 5 million copies.
Unless otherwise stated, numbers indicate worldwide units sold, ordered alphabetically whenever दो or अधिक सूची the वही राशि.
The exception are the ones specifying shipments, जिससे have निम्नतर पूर्वता than अन्य लिस्टिंग sales.
Franchise बिक्री शामिल विस्तार पैक भी हालांकि वे are not considered full video games.
For best-selling व्यक्तिगत वीडियो खेल, see List of best-selling video games.
The sales figures given below do not शामिल आर्केड खेल बिक्री, जिससे can be मिला at List of highest-grossing arcade video games.
– This color indicates a sub-series of a larger वीडियो game franchise.
This does not necessarily लागू लिये श्रेणी कि हैं नहीं वीडियो game-based.
Dorothy Ann विलिस रिचर्ड्स ( सितंबर 1, 1933 – September 13, 2006 ) was an American politician and the 45th Governor of Texas.
She first came to national attention as the state कोषाध्यक्ष of टेक्सास, जब वो वितरित the keynote पता at the 1988 Democratic National Convention.
Richards परोसा as the 45th राज्यपाल of टेक्सास इससे 1991 to 1995 और was defeated for re-election in 1994 by George W. Bush.
Ann Richards was the second मादा राज्यपाल of Texas.
Data Execution Prevention ( DEP ) is a सुरक्षा feature included in modern operating systems.
It is known to be available in Linux, Mac OS X, iOS, Microsoft Windows and Android operating systems and is intended to prevent an अनुप्रयोग or सेवा इससे निष्पादित कोड इससे a non-executable मेमोरी प्रदेश.
This helps prevent निश्चित कारनामे कि स्टोर कोड via a बफ़र overflow, for example.
DEP runs in two modes : hardware-enforced dep लिये cpu कि can चिह्नित मेमोरी पृष्ठों as nonexecutable, और software-enforced dep with limited protection for CPUs that do not have hardware support.
Software-enforced DEP does not protect against execution of code in data pages, but बजाय counters seh मिटाकर, another प्रकार of आक्रमण.
DEP was introduced on Linux in 2004 ( kernel 2.6.8 ), on खिड़कियाँ in 2004 साथ खिड़कियाँ xp सेवा पैक 2, जबकि ठहराना introduced dep when they moved to x86 in 2006.
Example उदाहरण of दो आम futanari विसंगतियाँ
, is the Japanese word for hermaphroditism, जिससे is भी प्रयुक्त in a broader भाव लिये androgyny.
Beyond Japan the term is used to describe a commonly pornographic विधा of कंप्यूटर खेल, कॉमिक्स और एनिमेशन, जिससे शामिल वर्ण कि दिखाएँ दोनो प्राथमिक यौन विशेषताएँ.
But in today 's language it refers almost exclusively लिये वर्ण जो have an overall feminine appearance.
In that case the term is भी प्रायः abbreviated as futa ( s ), जिससे is occasionally also used as term for the works itself.
Early CAPTCHAs such as these, उत्पन्न by the ez-gimpy कार्यक्रम, यहूद प्रयुक्त on याहू !
A modern CAPTCHA, rather than attempting to create a distorted पृष्ठभूमि और ऊँची स्तर of warping on the टेक्स्ट, might फ़ोकस on बनाना segmentation मुश्किल by adding an angled line.
Another way to make segmentation difficult is to crowd प्रतीकों साथ, as in याहू ! 's वर्तमान captcha स्वरूप.
Some captchas कोशिश to utilize the क्षमता of people to see three-dimensional objects.
On this image, symbols are drawn with lines of different मोटाई to मेक an प्रभाव of extrusion.
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a type of challenge-response test used in कम्प्यूटिंग as an attempt to ensure कि the जवाब is उत्पन्न by a इंसान होने.
The प्रक्रम प्रायः involves a कंप्यूटर पूछे a उपयोक्ता to complete a simple test which the computer is able to grade.
These परीक्षण हैं designed to be आसान लिये a कंप्यूटर to generate लकिन मुश्किल लिये a कंप्यूटर to solve, but again easy for a human.
If a सही समाधान is प्राप्त, it can be presumed to have been entered by a human.
A common type of CAPTCHA requires the user to प्रकार अक्षर and/or अंक इससे a distorted image that appears on the screen.
Such tests हैं commonly प्रयुक्त to prevent अनावश्यक अंतरजाल बॉट इससे accessing वेबसाइटों, चूंकि a सामान्य इंसान can easily पढ़ा a captcha, while the bot can not process the image letters and therefore, can not answer properly, or at all.
Although most CAPTCHAs are letter pictures randomly generated, many of them have become difficult even for a human to read, so picture CAPTCHAs were created in which a human is shown a simple test to show a picture of a certain animal ( given few animal तस्वीरें ), जिससे is सरल लिये a इंसान होने to प्रक्रम, और इसलिए आसान to चुनें, जबकि a bot can नहीं प्रक्रम और solve the सवाल क्युकी हालांकि it can analyze the चित्र, it can नहीं easily अंदाज़ा the animal.
The term `` CAPTCHA '' was coined in 2000 by लुइस वोन ahn, मैनुएल ब्लम, निकोलस J. हॉपर, और जॉन langford ( all of Carnegie Mellon University ).
It is an acronym based on the शब्द `` कैप्चर '' और खड़ा लिये `` completely स्वचालित पब्लिक turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart ''.
Carnegie Mellon University attempted to trademark the पद on 15 अक्तूबर 2004, लकिन the ट्रेडमार्क अनुप्रयोग थी abandoned on 21 अप्रैल 2008.
A CAPTCHA is sometimes described as a reverse turing परीक्षण, क्युकी it is administered by a यंत्र और targeted at a इंसान, in कंट्रास्ट to the मानक turing परीक्षण that is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine.
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly known in अंग्रेज़ी as ज़ाक cousteau ; 11 जून 1910 – 25 जून 1997 ) थी a फ्रेंच नवल अधिकारी, एक्सप्लोरर, conservationist, फिल्मकार, innovator, वैज्ञानिक, फ़ोटोग्राफ़र, लेखक और शोधकर्ता जो पढ़ाई the sea and all forms of life in water.
He co-developed the aqua-lung, pioneered समुद्री संरक्षण और was a member of the Académie française.
KFC ( Kentucky Fried Chicken ) is a तेज़ खाना रेस्तरां कड़ी headquartered in louisville, केंटकी, United States, which specializes in fried chicken.
An `` American icon '', it is the world 's second largest restaurant chain overall ( as measured by बिक्री ) बाद मैकडोनाल्ड 's, साथ over 18,000 आउटलेट in 120 countries and territories.
The company is a subsidiary of Yum !
Brands, a restaurant company जिससे भी owns पिज़्ज़ा हट और Taco Bell.
KFC was founded by Harland सैंडर्स, जो began selling fried मुर्गा इससे उसके roadside रेस्तरां in Corbin, Kentucky during the Great Depression.
Sanders was one of the पहला लोगों to देखिए the संभावित of the रेस्तरां फ़्रेंचाइज़िंग अवधारणा, साथ the पहला `` Kentucky Fried Chicken '' franchise opening in Utah in 1952.
The franchise popularized chicken in the fast food उद्योग, thereby diversifying the मार्केट और चुनौतीपूर्ण the दबदबा of the hamburger.
Marketing himself as `` कर्नल सैंडर्स '', he became a legendary फिगर of अमरीकी cultural history, and his image is still prominently used in KFC branding.
The company 's rapid expansion saw it grow too large for Sanders to manage, and in 1964 he sold the company to a group of investors led by John Y. Brown, jr. और जोकर massey.
KFC was one of the पहला तेज़ खाना जंजीरों to विस्तार internationally, खोलने आउटलेट in England, Mexico and Puerto Rico by the mid-1960s.
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, KFC अनुभवी मिश्रित सौभाग्य domestically, as it गई through a श्रेणी of कॉरपोरेट owners who had little or no experience in the restaurant business.
In the early 1970s, KFC थी बेची to the आत्माओं कड़ heublein, जो यहूद लिया over by the r.J. रेनॉल्ड्स food and tobacco conglomerate, who sold the chain to PepsiCo.
The chain continued to expand overseas however, and in 1987 केएफसी became the पहला पश्चिमी रेस्तरां chain to open in China.
The chain has since expanded rapidly in China, और the देश is अभी the कम्पनी 's सबसे लाभप्रद मार्केट.
PepsiCo spun off its रेस्तरां प्रभाग as tricon वैश्विक रेस्तरां, जिससे later changed its name to Yum !
ब्रांड्स.
केएफसी primarily बिकता fried मुर्गा टुकड़े और विसंगतियाँ ऐसे as मुर्गा सैंडविच और wraps, salads and side dishes such as French fries and coleslaw, desserts and soft drinks, often supplied by PepsiCo.
Its most famous product is pressure fried chicken pieces, seasoned साथ सैंडर्स ' `` असली रेसिपी '' of 11 herbs and spices.
The exact nature of ये संघटक is अनजान, और represents a notable trade secret.
Larger portions of fried मुर्गा हैं परोसा in a distinctive cardboard `` bucket '', which has become a signature of the chain since being introduced by franchisee Pete Harman.
KFC is famous for the slogan `` उंगली lickin ' शुभ '', जिससे रै चूंकि महरूम replaced by `` nobody करता मुर्गा like KFC '' and `` So good ''.
Cnidaria ( with a silent c ) or Coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 species of पशु मिला exclusively in जलीय और ज़्यादातर समुद्री environments.
Their distinguishing feature is cnidocytes, specialized कोशिकाएं कि वे उपयोग मुख्यतः लिये capturing शिकार.
Their bodies consist of mesoglea, a non-living jelly-like पदार्थ, sandwiched between two layers of epithelium that are mostly one cell thick.
वे have दो मौलिक देह फ़ॉर्म : तैराकी medusae और sessile polyps, both of which are radially symmetrical with mouths surrounded by tentacles that bear cnidocytes.
Both forms have a सिंगल orifice और देह गुहा कि हैं प्रयुक्त for digestion and respiration.
Many cnidarian प्रजाति उपज colonies कि हैं सिंगल जीवों composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or both.
Cnidarians ' क्रियाएँ हैं समन्वित by a विकेन्द्रित तंत्रिका net and simple receptors.
Several free-swimming cubozoa और scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, and some have simple eyes.
Not all cnidarians reproduce sexually.
Many have जटिल lifecycles साथ अलैंगिक polyp चरण और यौन medusae, but some omit either the polyp or the medusa stage.
Cnidarians were for a long time grouped with Ctenophores in the phylum Coelenterata, but increasing जागरूकता of उनके मतभेद caused उन्हें to be लगाई in पृथक phyla.
Cnidarians are classified into four main groups : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa ( sea anemones, corals, sea pens ) ; swimming Scyphozoa ( jellyfish ) ; Cubozoa ( बक्सा jellies ) ; और hydrozoa, a विविध समूह कि शामिल सब the freshwater cnidarians as खूब as अनेक समुद्री फ़ॉर्म, और रै दोनो स्थानबद्ध सदस्यों ऐसे as hydra और colonial swimmers such as the Portuguese Man o ' War.
Staurozoa have recently been recognised as a class in their own right rather than a sub-group of scyphozoa, और वहीँ is बहस परिचय whether myxozoa और polypodiozoa हैं cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( more complex animals ).
Most cnidarians prey on organisms ranging in size from plankton to animals several times larger than themselves, लकिन अनेक obtain much of उनके पोषण इससे endosymbiotic शैवाल, और a few हैं परजीवी.
Many are preyed upon by other पशु सहित starfish, समुद्र slugs, fish and turtles.
Coral reefs, whose polyps are rich in endosymbiotic शैवाल, support कुछ of the संसार 's सबसे उत्पादक ecosystems, और protect वनस्पति in tidal zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides.
While corals are almost entirely प्रतिबंधित to गरम, उथले समुद्री waters, अन्य cnidarians सजीव in the गहराइयों, in polar seas and in freshwater.
Fossil cnidarians have been found in rocks formed about, and अन्य जीवाश्मों दिखाएँ कि corals may have महरूम उपस्थित shortly पहले और diversified a few लाख सालो later.
Fossils of cnidarians that do नहीं निर्माण mineralized structures हैं very rare.
Scientists currently think that cnidarians, ctenophores and bilaterians हैं अधिक closely सम्बन्धित to calcareous sponges than ये हैं to अन्य sponges, और कि anthozoans हैं the विकासवादी `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of other cnidarians, and the most closely related to bilaterians.
Recent analyses have concluded that cnidarians, हालांकि माना अधिक `` आदिम '' than bilaterians, have a wider range of genes.
The Aztec Pyramid at St. cecilia acatitlan, मैक्सिको राज्य.
Aztec jade मुखौटा depicting the परमेश्वर Xipe Totec.
विशाल सिरेमिक प्रतिमा of an Aztec Eagle Warrior
एज़टेक cosmogram in the pre-hispanic Codex Fejérváry-Mayer - the fire god Xiuhtecuhtli is in the center.
The Aztec people यहूद निश्चित जातीय समूह of सेंट्रल मैक्सिको, विशेषकर those समूह जो spoke the नावातल भाषा और जो वर्चस्व large parts of Mesoamerica from the 14th to 16th centuries.
The Nahuatl words aztecatl ( singular ) and aztecah ( बहुवचन ) औसत `` लोगों इससे aztlan ``, a पौराणिक प्लेस लिये the nahuatl-speaking संस्कृति of the समय, और बाद अपनाया as the word to define the Mexica people.
Often the term `` Aztec '' refers exclusively to the Mexica people of Tenochtitlan ( now the location of Mexico नगर ), situated on an द्वीप in झील texcoco, जो referred to themselves as Mexica Tenochca or Cōlhuah Mexica.
Sometimes the term also शामिल the निवासियों of tenochtitlan 's दो प्रिंसिपल अलाइड city-states, the acolhuas of texcoco और the tepanecs of tlacopan, जो साथ साथ the mexica formed the एज़टेक ट्रिपल गठबंधन which controlled what is often known as `` the Aztec Empire ''.
In अन्य contexts, एज़टेक may refer to सब the विभिन्न नगर राज्य और उनके peoples, जो साझा विशाल भाग of their ethnic history and cultural traits with the Mexica, Acolhua and Tepanecs, and who often also used the Nahuatl language as a lingua franca.
In this meaning it is possible to talk about an Aztec civilization including all the particular सांस्कृतिक पैटर्न आम लिये सबसे of the peoples inhabiting सेंट्रल मैक्सिको in the late postclassic period.
From the 13th century, the Valley of Mexico was the heart of Aztec सभ्यता : यहाँ the पूंजी of the एज़टेक ट्रिपल गठबंधन, the नगर of tenochtitlan, was built upon raised islets in Lake Texcoco.
The Triple Alliance formed a उपनदी साम्राज्य expanding इसके राजनैतिक आधिपत्य दूर परे the घाटी of मैक्सिको, conquering अन्य city states throughout Mesoamerica.
At its pinnacle, Aztec culture had समृद्ध और जटिल पौराणिक और धार्मिक परंपराओं, as खूब as reaching उल्लेखनीय architectural and artistic accomplishments.
In 1521 Hernán Cortés, along with a large क्रमांक of नावातल बोलना स्वदेशी allies, conquered tenochtitlan और पराजित the एज़टेक ट्रिपल गठबंधन अंतर्गत the नेतृत्व of hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II.
Subsequently the Spanish founded the new settlement of मैक्सिको नगर on the साईट of the ruined एज़टेक पूंजी, इससे जहाँ वे proceeded with the process of colonizing Central America.
Aztec संस्कृति और इतिहास is primarily ज्ञात through पुरातत्व प्रमाण मिला in excavations ऐसे as कि of the प्रसिद्ध templo महापौर in मैक्सिको नगर ; इससे स्वदेशी छाल पेपर codices ; इससे eyewitness खाते by स्पेनी conquistadors such as Hernán Cortés and Bernal Díaz del Castillo ; and especially from 16th and 17th century descriptions of Aztec culture and history written by Spanish clergymen and literate Aztecs in the Spanish or Nahuatl language, such as the famous Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de Sahagún with the help of indigenous Aztec informants.
एंडरसन hays कूपर ( born जून 3, 1967 ) is an अमरीकी journalist, author, and television personality.
He is the primary anchor of the CNN न्यूज दिखाएँ एंडरसन कूपर 360°.
The program is normally broadcast live from a New York City studio ; however, Cooper प्रायः प्रसारण सजीव on location for breaking news stories.
As of September 2011, he भी serves as मेजबान of उसके अपना eponymous syndicated दिन बात दिखाएँ, एंडरसन सजीव, जिससे होगा be cancelled at the end of the second season.
A plot of a सामान्य वितरण ( or bell-shaped वक्र ) जहाँ प्रत्येक बैंड रै a width of 1 standard deviation – See also : 68-95-99.7 rule
Cumulative probability of a normal वितरण साथ अपेक्षित मान 0 और मानक विचलन 1.
In statistics and probability theory, standard deviation ( represented by the प्रतीक सिग्मा, σ ) shows कैसा much विभिन्नता or dispersion exists from the average ( mean ), or expected value.
A low standard deviation indicates कि the आंकड़ा अंक tend to be बहुत बंद to the औसत ; ऊँची मानक विचलन indicates that the data points are spread out over a large range of values.
The standard deviation of a random variable, statistical जनसांख्यिकी, आंकड़ा नियत, or संभाव्यता वितरण is the square root of its variance.
It is algebraically simpler though practically कम मजबूत than the औसत निरपेक्ष विचलन.
A useful प्रॉपर्टी of मानक विचलन is कि, नापसंद variance, it is expressed in the same units as the data.
Note, however, that for measurements with percentage as unit, the मानक विचलन होगा have प्रतिशत अंक as unit.
In addition to expressing the variability of a population, मानक विचलन is commonly प्रयुक्त to माप विश्वास in statistical conclusions.
For example, the margin of error in polling data is determined by calculating the अपेक्षित मानक विचलन in the परिणाम if the same poll were to be conducted multiple times.
The reported margin of error is typically about twice the मानक विचलन ­– the दायरा of a 95 प्रतिशत विश्वास interval.
In science, researchers commonly report the standard विचलन of प्रायोगिक आंकड़ा, और तभी प्रभाव कि पतन दूर बाहर the दायरा of मानक विचलन हैं माना statistically significant – सामान्य यादृच्छिक गलती or विभिन्नता in the measurements is in this way distinguished from causal variation.
Standard deviation is also important in finance, जहाँ the मानक विचलन on the रेट of वापसी on an निवेश is a माप of the volatility of the investment.
When तभी a नमूना of आंकड़ा इससे a जनसांख्यिकी is उपलब्धियाँ, the मानक विचलन of the जनसांख्यिकी can be estimated by a modified quantity called the `` sample standard deviation ''.
When the sample is the entire population, its unmodified standard विचलन is पुकारा the `` जनसांख्यिकी मानक deviation ''.
Ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( Ullucus tuberosus ) is a संयंत्र grown primarily as a root vegetable, secondarily as a leaf vegetable.
The ulluco is one of the सबसे widely grown और economically महत्वपूर्ण रूट crops in the Andean region of South America, second only to the potato.
It is known there with the common name of पापा लिसा, लकिन भी by the क्षेत्रीय names melloco ( इक्वाडोर ), olluco ( पेरू ), chugua ( Colombia ) or ruba ( Venezuela ), among others.
The leaf and the tuber हैं खाद्य, समान to पालक and the potato, respectively.
They are known to contain high levels of protein, कैल्सियम, और carotene.
papalisa यहूद प्रयुक्त by the Incas prior to arrival of Europeans in South America.
Ulluco tubers are marketed as `` धरती रत्नों '' in नई जीलैंड, by Halfords Exotic Produce.
ulluco tubers in New Zealand
An April 24, 1851 पोस्टर चेतावनी the `` रंगीन people of Boston '' about policemen acting as slave catchers.
The Fugitive Slave Law or Fugitive Slave Act was passed by the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस on सितंबर 18, 1850, as भाग of the सुलह of 1850 between दक्षिणी slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers.
This was one of the most controversial acts of the 1850 सुलह और heightened उत्तरी fears of a `` स्लेव शक्ति षड्यंत्र ''.
It declared that all runaway slaves were, upon कैप्चर, to be लौटे to their masters.
abolitionists nicknamed it the `` bloodhound विधि '' for the dogs that were used to track down runaway slaves.
फ़्रैंक जोसेफ pallone, jr. ( born अक्तूबर 30, 1951 ) is the u.S. Representative for, serving since 1993.
he is a सदस्य of the Democratic Party.
He previously represented the 3rd ज़िला इससे 1988 to 1993.
Trin-i-tee 5:7 is a gospel duo इससे नई ऑरलियन्स, louisiana in the संयुक्त राज्य.
The group was marketed as a इन्जील वैकल्पिक to r & b लड़की समूह ऐसे as नियति 's Child and TLC.
Trin-i-tee 5:7 has sold over 2.5 लाख एल्बम.
In 1998, the group released their first album हकदार trin-i-tee 5:7 जिससे डेब्यू at # 1 on the शीर्ष इन्जील charts.
The album प्रदर्शित the गीतों `` परमेश्वर 's अनुग्रह '' and the cover song `` Oh !
मरियम do n't तुम Weep ''.
The एल्बम बाद became certified gold.
In 1999, Terri Brown left the group and was later replaced by सिंगर एड्रियन Anderson.
दौरान कि साल, the समूह अंकित and released their second album, Spiritual Love.
The album became the group 's दूसरी # 1 एल्बम on the शीर्ष इन्जील चार्ट.
The album contained the singles `` put अपना हैंड्स '' और `` my देह ''.
In 2002, the समूह released उनके तीसरा एल्बम The Kiss which debuted at # 2 on the Top Gospel charts.
In 2007, the समूह बाएँ gospocentric रिकॉर्ड और हस्ताक्षरित a record deal with Spirit Rising Music.
In late 2007, trin-i-tee 5:7 released उनके पांचवां एल्बम t57, which featured the top ten gospel single `` Listen ''.
T57 charted # 2 on the शीर्ष इन्जील एल्बम, # 5 on the शीर्ष ईसाई charts, and # 12 on the Top R & B charts.
The United States संघीय अर्जित आय कर क्रेडिट or अर्जित आय क्रेडिट ( eitc or eic ) is a refundable कर क्रेडिट लिये low- और medium-income individuals और couples, primarily for those who have qualifying children.
When the credit exceeds the amount of taxes owed, it परिणाम in a कर refund to those जो अर्जी the क्रेडिट.
This credit is provided to offset the burden of सोशल सुरक्षा कर और भी to प्रचार an incentive to work.
In order for a person or couple to claim one or more persons as their qualifying child ( ren ), the आयु, संबंध, और साझा रेसिडेंसी आवश्यकताएँ जरूर be मिले, as well as some other requirements.
U.S. tax forms 1040EZ, 1040a, or 1040 can be प्रयुक्त to अर्जी eic without qualifying children.
To claim the credit with qualifying children, 1040A or 1040 must be used, as खूब as attaching अनुसूची EIC.
EIC phases in धीरे, रै a medium-length पठार, और तब phases out more slowly than it phased in.
Since the credit phases out at 21 % ( for two children and for three or more qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( लिये एक qualifying चाइल्ड ), it is सदा अस्तबलों to have one more dollar of actual salary or wages ( although technically, since the EIC table moves by fifty dollar increments, it 's always preferable to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ).
For tax year 2011, the maximum EIC for a सिंगल व्यक्ति or युगल दाखिल बगैर qualifying children थी $ 464.
The maximum EIC with one qualifying चाइल्ड थी $ 3,094, साथ दो children थी $ 5,112, और साथ तीन or more qualifying children was $ 5,751.
These amounts हैं indexed annually for inflation.
The earned आय कर क्रेडिट रै महरूम भाग of राजनैतिक debates in the संयुक्त राज्य regarding whether उठाने the न्यूनतम मजदूरी or increasing eic होगा बेहतर address a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs.
The following is a list of halftime shows आयोजित at the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's चैंपियनशिप खेल, the सुपर Bowl.
While halftime shows are a tradition during football games at all levels of competition, the Super Bowl halftime show represents a आधारभूत कड़ी to पॉप संस्कृति, जिससे helps broaden the टेलीविज़न audience and nationwide interest.
In most years since the mid-1980s, the halftime दिखाएँ of the सुपर कटोरी रै प्रदर्शित लोकप्रिय रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकारों and other well-known celebrities.
It has measurably increased टेलीविज़न दर्शक दौरान and after the halftime show.
The performance is regarded एक of the most-watched कार्यक्रम in अमरीकी टेलीविज़न annually साथ over 100 million viewers in the United States alone.
Musical genres over the years have represented a broad range of music types, सहित पॉप, चट्टान, क्लासिक चट्टान, देश, hip hop, rap, blues, and soul.
In कुछ सालो, छोटी skits or नाटक scenes are acted out on a stage.
The performance group Up with People has performed at the most सुपर कटोरी मध्यांतर shows, अभिनीत in चार दौरान the 1970s and 1980s.
According to Nielsen ratings, Super Bowl XLVI halftime show headlined by मैडोना in 2012 remains the most-watched मध्यांतर दिखाएँ in इतिहास, साथ 114 लाख viewers or about 3 million more than the actual game.
Beyonce 's 2013 halftime show प्रदर्शन थी the दूसरी सबसे viewed दिखाएँ in इतिहास.
It is listed on the Guinness World Records as the largest tv दर्शक लिये a सुपर कटोरी half-time performance.
International Men 's Day ( IMD ) is an annual अंतरराष्ट्रीय इवेंट मनाये on 19th नवम्बर.
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad and Tobago, the day and its events find support from a किस्में of individuals और समूह in ऑस्ट्रेलिया, the caribbean, उत्तर अमेरिका, एशिया, यूरोपीय and Africa.
Speaking on behalf of UNESCO, निदेशक of महिलाओं और संस्कृति of सलाम ingeborg breines कहा of imd, `` इस is an excellent idea and would give some gender balance. ''
She added that UNESCO was looking आगे to cooperating with the organizers.
The objectives of celebrating an International Men 's दिन शामिल focusing on मेन 's और लड़कों ' स्वास्थ्य, improving लिंग संबंध, promoting gender equality, and highlighting positive male role models.
It is an occasion to highlight discrimination against men and boys and to celebrate their उपलब्धियाँ और योगदान, in particular लिये उनके योगदान to जातियाँ, family, marriage, and child care.
The broader and ultimate aim of the इवेंट is to प्रचार मौलिक humanitarian values.
International Men 's Day is celebrated in over 60 countries, including Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica, Australia, India, China, United States, Romania, Singapore, Malta, United Kingdom, South Africa, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Seychelles, बुरुंडी, हंगेरियाई, आयरलैंड, आइल of man, घाना, कनाडा, डेनमार्क, नार्वे, ऑस्ट्रिया, बोस्निया और हर्ज़ेगोविना, युक्त, फ़्रांस, इटली, पाकिस्तानी, क्यूबा, अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा, st. किट्स और नेविस, st. लूसिया, हरा और केमन आइलैंड्स, on 19 नवम्बर, और वैश्विक support लिये the celebration is broad.
Valley गाँव parkvalley
Village is a ज़िला in the सैन फर्नांडो Valley region of Los Angeles, California.
The median age of its population, at 36, is `` old लिये the नगर of लॉस एंजिल्स. '' और इसके औसत household आकार of दो लोगों is low, compared to other parts of the city.
developmental मनोविज्ञान is the वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई of changes that occur in human beings over the course of their life span.
Originally concerned with infants और children, the फ़ील्ड रै विस्तारित to शामिल किशोरावस्था, वयस्क विकास, aging, and the entire life span.
This field examines change across a broad range of topics including मोटर कौशल और अन्य psycho-physiological प्रक्रियाओं ; संज्ञानात्मक विकास involving क्षेत्रों ऐसे as प्रॉब्लम solving, moral समझना, और conceptual समझना ; भाषा अधिग्रहण ; social, personality, and emotional development ; and self-concept and identity formation.
Developmental psychology शामिल मुद्दे ऐसे as the extent to जिससे विकास occurs through the क्रमिक accumulation of ज्ञान versus stage-like development, or the extent to which children are born with innate mental structures versus learning through experience.
अनेक शोधकर्ताओं हैं दिलचस्पी in the बातचीत between निजी विशेषताएँ, the व्यक्तिगत 's बर्ताव, और पर्यावरणीय कारकों सहित सोशल कॉन्टेक्स्ट, और उनके प्रभाव on development ; others take a more narrowly-focused approach.
developmental मनोविज्ञान informs अनेक लागू फ़ील्ड, सहित : शैक्षणिक psychology, child psychopathology, and forensic developmental psychology.
Developmental psychology complements several other basic शोध फ़ील्ड in मनोविज्ञान सहित सोशल मनोविज्ञान, संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान, ecological मनोविज्ञान, and comparative psychology.
जोसेफ माइकल `` जॉय '' stivic is a fictional अक्षर who first appeared on the 1970s American sitcom All in the Family.
Joey Stivic was the son and only child of Mike Stivic ( played by रोब reiner ) और ग्लोरिया stivic ( निभाई by सैली struthers ), और the पोता of Archie Bunker ( Carroll O'Connor ) and Edith Bunker ( Jean Stapleton ).
The character first appeared as a newborn baby in a two-part एपीसोड of सब in the परिवार जिससे aired in December 1975.
After many appearances on All in the Family until Reiner and Struthers left the series in 1978 ( by that time, Joey had been played most often by alternating twins Jason and Justin Draeger ), the Joey Stivic character next appeared on the All in the परिवार spin-off श्रेणी ( कुछ कॉल it a continuation of the असली ) आर्ची बंकर 's प्लेस in a अतिथि रूप in the नवम्बर 1979 एपीसोड `` Thanksgiving Reunion. ''
In this instance, the character was played by child कर्ता लंड billingsley और थी appropriately pre-school age.
With Gloria now separated from Mike, वो लौटे to आर्ची बंकर 's प्लेस साथ जॉय in the फ़रवरी 1982 episode `` Gloria Comes Home. ''
In this episode, जॉय थी निभाई by क्रिस्टोफर johnston.
Joey Stivic was a regular character on the All in the परिवार spin-off श्रेणी ग्लोरिया in 1982 and 1983.
On इस श्रेणी, in जिससे the now-divorced ग्लोरिया बंकर अक्षर था स्थानांतरित to upstate नई यॉर्क in order to work as an assistant veterinarian, the part of Joey Stivic was played by ten-year-old actor Christian Jacobs.
After Gloria was canceled in 1983, जॉय stivic disappeared इससे प्रधान समय टेलीविज़न लिये 11 सालो, जबतक the character made one last appearance on 704 Hauser, a short-lived 1994 series about a black family who had moved into the old Bunker home, years after Bunker had sold it.
In this appearance, the Joey Stivic character was played by केसी siemaszko, an कर्ता born in 1961 ( 14 सालो पहले जॉय stivic 's fictional birth ).
In 1976 the आदर्श खिलौना कम्पनी released a 14-inch `` जॉय stivic गुड़िया '' ( पुकारा `` Archie Bunker 's Grandson '' ) which was billed as the `` first anatomically correct male doll. ''
The doll inspired mild विवाद at the समय, और is a collectors ' item today.
The 2011 Rose Bowl was the 97th edition of the annual bowl game played on जनवरी 1, 2011, as भाग of the 2010 कॉलेज football season.
Played in Pasadena, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, the tcu horned मेंढक of the पहाड़ वेस्ट सम्मेलन पराजित the Wisconsin Badgers of the Big Ten Conference by a score of 21 – 19.
The Pasadena टूर्नामेंट of गुलाब संघ थी the organizer of the game.
Vizio Inc. was the कॉरपोरेट प्रायोजक और the खेल थी officially नामित `` the रोज़ Bowl Game presented by Vizio ''.
This खेल चिह्नित the पहला समय a टोली इससे a non-automatic qualifying सम्मेलन played in, and won, the Rose Bowl in its 97 years.
The contest was broadcast on cable television स्टेशन ईएसपीएन साथ a रेडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट on ईएसपीएन रेडियो और xm उपग्रह Radio and ESPN3 streaming video over the internet.
Coverage began at 1:30 pm ( pst ) साथ kickoff at 2:10 PM ( PST ).
This marked the first time that the game was not broadcast nationally `` over-the-air '' ( terrestrial television ) चूंकि the खेल prior to the 1952 रोज़ कटोरी, जिससे थी the पहला nationally televised college football game.
the रोज़ कटोरी खेल, प्रसंग भवन सपनो, friendships, & यादें, थी a contractual sell-out, with 64,500 tickets allocated to the participating teams and conferences.
Ticket कीमतें लिये सब सीटे in the रोज़ कटोरी हैं listed at $ 145.
The remaining tickets went to the Tournament of Roses members, प्रायोजकों, नगर of pasadena निवासियों, और the सामान्य पब्लिक.
The Rose Bowl stadium capacity is सूचीबद्ध at लगभग 91,000.
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4, 1776, जिससे घोषित कि the तेरह American colonies, then at war with Great Britain, regarded themselves as independent states, and no longer a part of the British Empire.
बजाय वे अभी formed a नई nation—the United States of America.
जॉन एडम्स थी a नेता in pushing लिये स्वतंत्रता, which was unanimously approved on July 2.
A कमेटी था already drafted the औपचारिक घोषणा, to be ready when congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the कमेटी to चुनें थामस जेफरसन to लिखें the original draft of the document, which congress would edit to produce the final version.
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of क्यों कॉंग्रेस था voted on जुलाई 2 to घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, अधिक than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War.
The national birthday, the Independence Day is मनाये on जुलाई 4, हालांकि एडम्स चाही जुलाई 2.
After ratifying the टेक्स्ट on जुलाई 4, कॉंग्रेस issued the Declaration of Independence in several forms.
It थी initially प्रकाशित as the मुद्रित डनलप broadside कि was widely distributed and read to the public.
The most famous version of the घोषणा, a हस्ताक्षरित नक़ल कि is popularly regarded as the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता, is प्रदर्शित at the National Archives in Washington, D.C.
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved on July 4, the तिथि of इसके हस्ताक्षर थी अगस्त 2.
The original July 4 United राज्य घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता पाण्डुलिपि थी lost while all other copies have been derived from this original document.
The sources and interpretation of the घोषणा have महरूम the विषय of much scholarly inquiry.
The Declaration justified the independence of the United राज्य by लिस्टिंग औपनिवेशिक grievances विरूद्ध किंग जार्ज iii, और by asserting निश्चित प्राकृतिक और विधिक अधिकारों, including a right of revolution.
Having served its original purpose in announcing स्वतंत्रता, the टेक्स्ट of the घोषणा थी initially उपेक्षित after the American Revolution.
Since then, it रै आइये to be माना a प्रमुख बयान on इंसान rights, particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable अधिकारों, कि among ये हैं जीवन, स्वतंत्रता और the pursuit of सुख.
This has been called `` one of the best-known sentences in the English language '', containing `` the सबसे potent और consequential शब्द in American history. ''
The passage came to represent a moral standard to जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य चाहिए नीयत.
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln, who considered the Declaration to be the न्यास of उसके राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र, और argued कि the घोषणा is a बयान of सिद्धान्त through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted.
It has प्रेरित कार्य लिये the अधिकारों of अधिकारहीन people throughout the world.
chitty chitty बंग बंग is a 1968 अंग्रेजों musical film loosely based on Ian Fleming 's novel.
The film 's script is by Roald dahl और केन ह्यूजेस और इसके गीतों by the Sherman Brothers.
it सितारों लंड वैन dyke as caractacus Potts and Sally Ann Howes as Truly Scrumptious.
the फिल्मी थी निर्देशित by केन ह्यूजेस और उत्पादित by अल्बर्ट R. Broccoli ( co-producer of the James Bond series of films, also based on Fleming 's novels ).
John Stears पर्यवेक्षित the खास effects.
Irwin Kostal पर्यवेक्षित और conducted the म्यूज़िक, जबकि the musical numbers were staged by Marc Breaux and Dee Dee Wood.
A region is arid when it is characterized by a कठोर कमी of उपलब्धियाँ जल, to the extent of hindering or preventing the growth and development of plant and animal life.
Environments subject to arid climates tend to कमी वनस्पति and are called xeric or desertic.
Most `` arid '' climates घेर the equator ; ये स्थान include most of Africa and parts of South America and Central America.
Cancer ( ♋ ) is an astrological चिह्न, जिससे is संबद्ध with the constellation Cancer.
It spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac, between 90 and 125.25 degree of celestial देशांतर, जिससे the सूर्य transits इस क्षेत्रफल on औसत between जून 22 to जुलाई 22 each year.
And under the sidereal zodiac, it is फिलहाल इससे जुलाई 21 to August 9.
the संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1960 थी the 44th quadrennial presidential election, held on Tuesday, November 8, 1960.
The Republican Party nominated incumbent vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन, जबकि the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी मनोनीत जॉन F. कैनेडी, सीनेटर from Massachusetts.
The incumbent President, Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower, was not eligible for re-election after सेवारत the अधिकतम दो शर्तें अनुमत by the twenty-second Amendment.
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes, or 0.17 % of the popular vote, giving उसे a विजय of 303 to 219 in the चुनावी कॉलेज, the closest since 1916.
This was the first election in which all fifty of the वर्तमान संयुक्त राज्य participated.
A number of factors explain why the चुनाव थी so बंद.
कैनेडी gained चूंकि वहीँ थी an आर्थिक मंदी जिससे ठेस the लाज़िम Republican, and he had the advantage of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans.
Furthermore, the new votes that Kennedy gained among Catholics लगभग neutralized the नई मत निक्सन gained among protestants.
Kennedy 's campaigning कौशल decisively outmatched Nixon 's.
In the end, निक्सन 's जोर on उसके अनुभव carried छोटी वज़न, and he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states.
कैनेडी प्रयुक्त उसके विशाल, well-funded अभियान संगठन to जीत the nomination, secure endorsements, and, with the aid of the last of the big-city bosses, to get out the vote in the big cities.
He relied on कार्यशील mate lyndon B. जॉनसन to थाम the South and used television effectively.
This election is notable as होने the पहला समय in u.S. इतिहास कि दो बैठे u.s. सीनेटरों ( कैनेडी और जॉनसन ) यहूद elected as president and vice-president, a phenomenon that has been repeated once, by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases, the president was the younger, more junior senator ).
Sherwood is a city in Washington काउंटी, ऑरेगॉन, संयुक्त States.
Located in the southeast कोने of the काउंटी, it is a आवासीय जातियाँ in the tualatin Valley southwest of Portland.
The population थी 11,791 at the 2000 census.
According to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी, the population was 18,205 residents.
indirectly नामित लिये the शेरवुड वन in England, it was first incorporated in 1893 as a town.
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an Act of the U.S. कॉंग्रेस कि थी हस्ताक्षरित into विधि by अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. Bush on October 26, 2001.
The title of the act is a ten letter acronym ( USA PATRIOT ) that stands लिये uniting ( और ) strengthening अमेरिका ( by ) providing उचित Tools Required ( to ) Intercept ( and ) Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001.
The act, as a response to the terrorist attacks of September 11th, significantly reduced restrictions in law enforcement agencies ' महफ़िल of प्रज्ञा भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य ; विस्तारित the सचिव of the treasury’s प्राधिकार to विनियमित वित्तीय ट्रांजेक्शन, विशेषकर those involving विदेशी individuals और entities ; and broadened the discretion of law enforcement and immigration authorities in detaining and deporting immigrants suspected of terrorism-related acts.
The अधिनियम भी विस्तारित the परिभाषा of आतंक to शामिल domestic terrorism, thus enlarging the number of activities to which the USA PATRIOT Act’s expanded law enforcement powers can be applied.
On May 26, 2011, President Barack Obama used an Autopen to sign the PATRIOT Sunsets Extension Act of 2011, a four-year extension of three key provisions in the यूएसए patriot अधिनियम जबकि he थी in फ़्रांस : roving wiretaps, खोज of कारोबार रिकॉर्ड ( the `` पुस्तकालयों रिकॉर्ड प्रावधान `` ), और conducting निगरानी of `` लोन भेड़ियों '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related activities not linked to terrorist groups.
Republican leaders questioned if the उपयोग of the autopen मिले the constitutional requirements for signing a bill into law.
A house in Queen ऐनी स्टाइल at 223 Avenue A.
Snohomish is a नगर in snohomish काउंटी, Washington, United States.
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 9,098 at the 2010 census.
The mayor of snohomish is karen guzak, और the नगर मैनेजर is Larry Bauman.
Snohomish prides itself for its historical downtown, और थी एकबार ज्ञात लिये इसके अनेक पुरातन दुकानें जब it थी ज्ञात as the `` पुरातन पूंजी of the Northwest. ''
The historic business and residential center of the town constitutes the Snohomish Historic District, जिससे is सूचीबद्ध on the नेशनल पंजीकरण of ऐतिहासिक स्थान.
Many houses bear plaques with the year the हाउस थी निर्मित और the नाम of the परिवार or व्यक्तिगत who originally occupied it.
Once every year, the city gives tours of the ऐतिहासिक घरों ; एक of उन्हें, the Blackman House, is a year-round museum.
A general aviation airfield, Harvey Airfield, is कम than एक मील दक्षिणपश्चिम of शहर snohomish.
Dave Matthews Band ( DMB ) is an अमरीकी चट्टान बैंड कि थी formed in charlottesville, वर्जिनिया, United States, in 1991.
The founding members were singer-songwriter and guitarist Dave Matthews, bassist Stefan Lessard, drummer /backing vocalist कार्टर beauford और saxophonist LeRoi Moore.
Boyd Tinsley was added to the band as a violinist जल्द बाद the बैंड थी formed.
Moore died एकाएक in अगस्त 2008 due to जटिलताओं from injuries sustained in an ATV accident.
GRAMMY Award -winner Jeff Coffin of Béla Fleck and the flecktones रै चूंकि भर मूर 's स्पॉट as the band 's saxophonist.
rashawn रॉस और टिम रेनॉल्ड्स have भी become full-time touring members of the band.
The band 's 2009 album Big Whiskey and the GrooGrux King ( the first album since Moore 's death ) debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, कमाई the बैंड उनके पांचवां लगातार number-one debut— बनाना उन्हें the दूसरी बैंड पीछे मेटालिका to do so.
Their most recent album, Away from the World, was released in 2012, and also debuted at क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड chart.
As of 2010, the डेव matthews बैंड रै बेची over 30 million records worldwide.
The band is known for उनके सालाना summer-long टुर of the संयुक्त राज्य और यूरोपीय, featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of their songs, accompanied by an elaborate video and lighting show.
This portion of the दौरे रै become a स्टैम्प of dmb और रै grown साथ the बैंड चूंकि Fenton Williams began working with them in the early 1990s.
After twenty लगातार सालो of touring the बैंड घोषित that it would take the summer of 2011 off.
Dave Matthews Band has won one ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, और थी awarded the naacp अध्यक्ष 's Award.
according to जूलियन बंध, `` वे बेचें आउट the largest arenas on Earth, but frequently give their music away. ''
Transcendental Wild Oats : A Chapter from an Unwritten Romance is a prose satire written by louisa may alcott, परिचय उसके परिवार 's भागीदारी साथ the transcendentalist जातियाँ fruitlands in the early 1840s.
The work was first published in a New York newspaper in 1873, and reprinted in 1874, 1876, और 1915 और बाद.
In her account, Alcott provides the रियल लोगों शामिल साथ पतला pseudonymous disguises.
Her father Amos Bronson Alcott is `` Abel Lamb, '' while his संगी और जातियाँ co-founder चार्ल्स लेन is `` timon शेर ; '' अबीगैल may alcott, Louisa 's mother and Bronson 's wife, is `` Sister Hope. ''
Alcott depicts उसके पिता as वर्चस्व by उसके more forceful partner, and both men as feckless and impractical dreamers.
The men of the community खर्च उनके समय in pointless debates जबकि सिस्टर आशा works इससे भोर to संध्या to maintain their existence.
A crisis arises at harvest समय, जब the अनाज क्रॉप is threatened by an approaching storm.
In Alcott 's words, `` परिचय the समय the अनाज थी तैयार to हाउस, कुछ कॉल of the oversoul wafted all the men away. ''
Sister Hope organizes the तभी उपलब्धियाँ सहायता, तीन छोटी girls and a boy, and manages to save the crop.
The little जातियाँ collapses as जल्द as the मौसम turns ठंडा, जब it becomes साफ कि उनके provisions are too meager to last the coming winter.
Timon Lion and his son abscond to join the Shakers — though timon is अप्रसन्न to सीख कि जीवन among उन्हें is `` सब कार्य और no खेल. ''
Abel is crushed by the failure of the enterprise ; after days of despair he begins to eat again तभी जब he realizes कि उसके परिवार needs उसे.
Sister Hope finds a way for उन्हें to subsist और persevere.
Alcott 's view of male arrogance and female exploitation in this piece is paralleled in उसके अनोखा, प्रकाशित in the वही साल as `` Transcendental Wild Oats. ''
`` अनुभवातीत जंगली जई '' रै been reprinted in several modern editions.
Mount of the Holy Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot पहाड़ in the sawatch दायरा, भाग of the रॉकी kyu in Colorado.
It is located in the Holy Cross Wilderness near the ghost town of Holy क्रॉस नगर और in त्रिभुज काउंटी.
It was नामित लिये the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the northeast face.
Under USDA Forest Service प्रशासन, the पहाड़ थी proclaimed `` पावन क्रॉस नेशनल स्मारक '' by Herbert Hoover on May 11, 1929.
The monument was transferred to the नेशनल पार्क सेवा in 1933.
In 1950, it was returned to the Forest Service and lost its नेशनल स्मारक status—the क्रमांक of विज़िटर to the पहाड़ and the nearby `` Pilgrim 's Hut '' had waned, and the expense of full-time staff could not be justified.
This mountain has महरूम the विषय of चित्रकार, फ़ोटोग्राफ़र और भी a कविता by हेनरी वाड्सवर्थ लांगफेलो, ( The Cross of Snow ).
The first publicly available photograph was published in नेशनल भौगोलिक पत्रिका.
Thomas Moran depicted the mountain in an oil पेंटिंग, जिससे अभी is भाग of the संग्रहण of the संग्रहालय of the अमरीकी वेस्ट, भाग of the autry नेशनल बीच in Los Angeles, California.
It is still much photographed लकिन it is नहीं as खूब known today as it was in the past.
आसपास सुविधाएँ शामिल कटोरी of आंसू झील, सीधे अंतर्गत the ईस्ट फेस of the peak, Tuhare Lakes, in a cirque that lies south of a significant subpeak, and several other lakes.
Notable locations within include the Dotsero ज्वालामुखी ( निकट अंतरराज्यीय 70 ), vail और aspen.
US 24 रनों निकट the शिखर through Gilman.
photochrom छपाई of माउंट of the Holy Cross c. 1900.
This चित्र is a reversed दृश्य of the पहाड़ compared to how it actually appears.
The first recorded ascent of Holy Cross was in 1873, by F. V. hayden और फ़ोटोग्राफ़र W. H. जैक्सन दौरान one of Hayden 's geographical surveys.
however, the शिखर may खूब have महरूम ascended previously by miners or American Indians.
The first winter ascent of the peak was made in 1943 by Russel Keene and Howard freedman of the 10th पहाड़ प्रभाग, तब stationed at शिविर hale.
Holy Cross can be climbed by at least four different routes, with the easiest and most common route being the North Ridge, which involves of लंबवत लाभ over और is रेटेड yds क्लास 2 लिये मॉडरेट scrambling.
The Cross Couloir route forms the vertical portion of the प्रसिद्ध क्रॉस विशेषता, और provides an उन्नत snow climb or extreme ski descent.
Mount of the Holy Cross has a history of endangering the lives of अनेक hikers.
Primarily, the hikers who आवश्यकता बचाव हैं unfamiliar साथ the risks of प्रवेश wilderness क्षेत्रों और do not bring adequate equipment and supplies to respond to emergency conditions.
Although the summit on Mount of the Holy Cross is frequently reached on a long day hike, unprepared hikers हैं अक्सर stranded or खोया due to बदलना पर्यावरणीय conditions and confusion regarding the surrounding landscape, especially on the descent of North Ridge.
thorough शोध और उचित नियोजन should prevent most tragedies.
Mount of the Holy cross is accessible इससे tigiwon सड़क, दक्षिण of minturn, कोलोराडो.
The Half Moon pass ट्रेल is the मानक रूट to the समिट of Mount of the Holy Cross via the North Ridge.
Following the पतन क्रीक ट्रेल to an ascent of पायदान पहाड़ ट्रेल provides the best view of the Holy Cross snow feature from Notch Mountain Ridge.
the जीएसएम लोगो is प्रयुक्त to पहचानो compatible handsets and equipment
GSM ( Global System for Mobile Communications, originally ' ), is a standard set developed by the European दूरसंचार मानकों संस्थान ( etsi ) to describe प्रोटोकॉल लिये दूसरी पीढी ( 2g ) डिजिटल सेल्यूलर संजाल प्रयुक्त by mobile phones.
It became the de facto global standard for mobile संचार साथ over 80 % मार्केट share.
The GSM standard was developed as a replacement for first generation ( 1G ) एनालॉग सेल्यूलर संजाल, और originally वर्णित a डिजिटल, सर्किट switched संजाल अनुकूलित लिये पूरा duplex voice telephony.
इस थी विस्तारित over समय to शामिल आंकड़ा संचार, पहला by सर्किट switched हस्तांतरण, तब पैकेट data transport via GPRS ( General Packet Radio Services ) and EDGE ( Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution or EGPRS ).
further सुधार यहूद बना जब the 3gpp विकसित तीसरा पीढी ( 3g ) umts मानकों followed by fourth generation ( 4G ) LTE Advanced standards.
`` GSM '' is a ट्रेडमार्क स्वामित्व by the जीएसएम Association.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the Lend-Lease विधेयक to दे सहायता to ब्रिटेन और चीन ( 1941 )
The Lend Lease act was an act जहाँ the संयुक्त राज्य था समर्थित its allies.
Lend-Lease ( ) was the law that started a program under which the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका supplied the संयुक्त किंगडम, the ussr, गणतंत्र of चीन, फ़्री France, and other Allied nations with materiel between 1941 and 1945.
It was signed into law on कूच 11, 1941, a साल और a हाफ बाद the outbreak of World War II in Europe in September 1939.
This was nine महीने पहले the u.S. डाला the war in December 1941.
Formally titled An Act to further प्रचार the रक्षा of the संयुक्त राज्य, the अधिनियम effectively ended the United States ' pretense of neutrality.
A total of $ 50.1 billion ( equivalent to $ today ) worth of supplies were shipped : $ 31.4 अरब to ब्रिटेन, $ 11.3 अरब to the सोवियत संघ, $ 3.2 अरब to फ़्रांस, $ 1.6 अरब to China, and smaller sums to other Allies.
Reverse Lend-Lease comprised services such as rent on air bases that went to the U.S., and totaled $ 7.8 billion ; of इस, $ 6.8 अरब आए इससे the अंग्रेजों और the Commonwealth.
The शर्तें of the अनुबंध provided कि the materiel was to be used until time for their return or destruction.
Supplies after the termination date यहूद बेची to ब्रिटेन at a विशाल छूट लिये £1.075 billion using long-term loans from the United States.
Canada operated a similar program कि भेजा $ 4.7 अरब in आपूर्तियाँ to the संयुक्त किंगडम and the Soviet Union.
The संयुक्त राज्य किया नहीं चार्ज लिये सहायता supplied under this legislation.
This program थी a निर्णायक कदम दूर इससे non-interventionist नीति, जिससे had dominated United States foreign relations since the end of World War I, towards international involvement.
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ), also पुकारा sunroot, sunchoke, धरती ठहराना or topinambour, is a प्रजाति of सूरजमुखी देशी to पूर्वी North America, and found from eastern Canada and Maine west to North Dakota, and south to northern Florida and Texas.
It is also cultivated widely across the temperate zone for its tuber, जिससे is प्रयुक्त as a root vegetable.
Castillo San Felipe del Morro also known as Fort San Felipe del Morro or morro किला, is a 16th-century citadel स्तिथ in सैन जुआन, Puerto Rico.
stonehenge is a प्रागैतिहासिक स्मारक in विल्टशायर, इंग्लैण्ड, परिचय वेस्ट of amesbury and north of Salisbury.
One of the most famous sites in the world, Stonehenge is the remains of a रिंग of खड़ा पत्थरों नियत भीतर earthworks.
It is in the middle of the most dense complex of पाषाणकालीन और कांस्य आयु स्मारक in इंग्लैण्ड, सहित several hundred burial mounds.
Archaeologists believe it थी निर्मित anywhere from 3000 BC to 2000 BC.
Radiocarbon डेटिंग in 2008 सुझाया कि the पहला पत्थरों यहूद उठाया between 2400 और 2200 bc, whilst another सिद्धान्त suggests कि bluestones may have been raised at the site as early as 3000 BC.
The surrounding circular earth bank and ditch, which constitute the earliest phase of the स्मारक, have महरूम दिनाँक to परिचय 3100 BC.
The site and its surroundings were added to the युनेस्को 's सूची of संसार विरासत साइट in 1986 in a co-listing with Avebury Henge.
It is a national legally सुरक्षित अनुसूचित प्राचीन स्मारक.
Stonehenge is स्वामित्व by the क्राउन और प्रबंधित by अंग्रेज़ी विरासत, while the surrounding land is owned by the National Trust.
पुरातत्व प्रमाण मिला by the stonehenge riverside प्रोजेक्ट in 2008 indicates कि stonehenge could have been a burial ground from its earliest beginnings.
The dating of cremated remains found on the site indicate that जमा contain इंसान अस्थि इससे as जल्दी as 3000 bc, जब the खाई और बैंको यहूद first dug.
Such deposits continued at stonehenge लिये at तनिक another 500 years.
The site is a place of religious significance और यात्राएं in neo-druidry.
The NCAA Women 's प्रभाग i चैंपियनशिप is an सालाना कॉलेज बास्केट टूर्नामेंट for women.
Held each अप्रैल, the महिलाओं 's चैंपियनशिप was inaugurated in the 1981–82 season.
the ncaa टूर्नामेंट थी preceded by the aiaw महिलाओं 's Basketball Tournament, which was held annually from 1972 to 1982.
Basketball was one of twelve women 's sports added to the NCAA championship program for the 1981-82 स्कूल साल, as the ncaa सगाई in बैटल साथ the संघ लिये intercollegiate एथलेटिक्स लिये महिलाओं लिये sole governance of women 's collegiate sports.
The AIAW continued to conduct its established चैंपियनशिप कार्यक्रम in the वही बारह ( और अन्य ) खेल ; however, बाद a साल of डुअल महिलाओं 's championships, the NCAA prevailed, while the AIAW disbanded.
Attendance and interest in the Women 's Division I Championship have grown over the सालो, विशेषकर चूंकि 2003, जब the फाइनल चैंपियनशिप खेल थी स्थानांतरित to the Tuesday following the Monday men 's championship game.
The women 's चैंपियनशिप खेल is अभी the फाइनल overall game of the college basketball season.
Before that, the Women 's फाइनल चार थी प्रायः निभाई on the शुक्रवार पहले the मेन 's फाइनल Four or the hours before the men played on the final Saturday of the tournament.
the फाइनल थी प्रायः निभाई the संडे afternoon following the Men 's Final Four.
The tournament bracket is बना up of champions इससे प्रत्येक प्रभाग i सम्मेलन, which receive automatic bids.
The remaining slots are at-large bids, with टीमों चुनी by an ncaa चयन कमेटी.
The selection process and tournament seedings are based on अनेक कारकों, सहित टोली rankings, win-loss रिकॉर्ड और दरजा प्रतिशत अनुक्रमणिका ( RPI ) data.
Unlike the men 's टूर्नामेंट, वहीँ हैं तभी 32 at-large बोलियों ( as of the next tournament in 2014 ), and no play-in game.
The women 's tournament, like the men 's, is staged in a single elimination format, और is भाग of the मीडिया और पब्लिक frenzy ज्ञात colloquially as March Madness or The Big Dance.
All 63 खेल have महरूम ब्रॉडकास्ट on टेलीविज़न since 2003 on ESPN and ESPN2.
Similar to the pre-2011 men 's tournament coverage on CBS, local teams are shown on each channel when available, साथ `` whip-around '' कवरेज designed to शोकेस the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी प्रतियोगिताओं in the बाकी of the देश.
The Rosetta Stone in the अंग्रेजों Museum
The Rosetta Stone is an ancient Egyptian granodiorite stele inscribed साथ a डिक्री जारी at मेम्फिस in 196 bc on निमित्त of किंग टॉलेमी v.
The decree appears in three स्क्रिप्ट : the अपर टेक्स्ट is प्राचीन मिश्र चित्रलिपि, the middle portion Demotic script, and the lowest Ancient Greek.
Because it presents essentially the same text in all three scripts ( with some minor differences between उन्हें ), it provided the कुंजी to the आधुनिक समझना of मिश्र चित्रलिपि.
Originally displayed within a temple, the stone was probably स्थानांतरित दौरान the जल्दी ईसाई or मध्यकालीन काल और आखिरकार प्रयुक्त as भवन material in the construction of Fort Julien near the town of Rashid ( Rosetta ) in the Nile Delta.
It was rediscovered वहीँ in 1799 by a सिपाही, pierre-françois bouchard, of the French expedition to Egypt.
As the first Ancient Egyptian bilingual टेक्स्ट बरामद in आधुनिक टाइम्स, the rosetta स्टोन aroused फैली पब्लिक ब्याज साथ इसके potential to decipher this hitherto untranslated ancient language.
lithographic नक़ल और प्लास्टर casts began circulating among European museums and scholars.
Meanwhile, British troops defeated the French in मिश्र in 1801, और the असली स्टोन आए into अंग्रेजों कब्ज़ा under the Capitulation of Alexandria.
Transported to London, it has been on public प्रदर्शक at the अंग्रेजों संग्रहालय चूंकि 1802.
It is the most-visited ऑब्जेक्ट in the अंग्रेजों Museum.
Ever since its rediscovery, the stone has been the focus of nationalist rivalries, including its transfer from French to British possession दौरान the napoleonic युद्धों, a long-running विवाद over the सापेक्ष मान of यंग 's और champollion 's contributions to the decipherment, and since 2003, demands for the stone 's return to Egypt.
Study of the decree was already under way as the पहला पूरा अनुवाद of the यूनानी टेक्स्ट appeared in 1803.
It was 20 years, however, before the transliteration of the Egyptian scripts was घोषित by jean-françois champollion in पेरिस in 1822 ; it took longer स्टिल पहले विद्वानों यहूद समर्थ to पढ़ा प्राचीन Egyptian inscriptions and literature confidently.
Major advances in the decoding were : recognition कि the स्टोन offered तीन संस्करण of the वही टेक्स्ट ( 1799 ) ; कि the demotic टेक्स्ट प्रयुक्त ध्वन्यात्मक वर्ण to वर्तनी विदेशी names ( 1802 ) ; कि the hieroglyphic टेक्स्ट किया so as खूब, और था pervasive similarities to the demotic ( थामस यंग, 1814 ) ; and that, in addition to being used for foreign names, phonetic characters were also used to spell native Egyptian words ( Champollion, 1822–1824 ).
Two other fragmentary copies of the same decree यहूद खोजा बाद, और अनेक समान मिश्र दुभाषिया or trilingual inscriptions हैं अभी ज्ञात, सहित दो थोड़ा पहले Ptolemaic decrees ( the Decree of Canopus in 238 BC, and the Memphis decree of Ptolemy IV, ca. 218 BC ).
The Rosetta Stone is therefore no longer अद्वितीय, लकिन it थी the अनिवार्य कुंजी to आधुनिक समझना of प्राचीन मिश्र literature and civilization.
the पद rosetta स्टोन is अभी प्रयुक्त in अन्य contexts as the नाम for the essential clue to a new field of knowledge.
ज़हर डार्ट मेंढक ( भी dart-poison मेंढक, ज़हर मेंढक or formerly ज़हर arrow frog ) is the common name of a group of frogs in the family Dendrobatidae which are native to Central and South America.
These species are diurnal और प्रायः have brightly रंगीन bodies.
Although all wild dendrobatids are at least somewhat विषाक्त, स्तर of toxicity vary considerably इससे एक प्रजाति to the अगला और इससे one population to another.
Many प्रजाति हैं threatened.
These amphibians are often called `` dart frogs '' due to the Amerindians ' स्वदेशी उपयोग of उनके to ज़हर the नुस्ख़े of blowdarts.
However, of over 175 species, only four have been प्रलेखित as होने प्रयुक्त लिये इस purpose ( curare पौधे हैं अधिक commonly प्रयुक्त ), सब of जिससे आइये इससे the phyllobates genus, जिससे is characterized by the relatively large size and high levels of toxicity of its members.
Cajeta is a Mexican confection of thickened सिरप प्रायः बना of sweetened caramelised milk.
According to शेफ़ रिक bayless, the नाम लिये cajeta आए इससे the स्पेनी phrase al punto de cajeta, which means `` a liquid thickened to the point at which a spoon drawn through the liquid reveals the bottom of the pot in which it is being cooked ''.
Another hypothesis is कि it takes इसके नाम इससे the छोटी wooden boxes in which it was traditionally packed.
Mexican cajeta is माना a specialty of the नगर of celaya in the राज्य of Guanajuato, although it is also produced with the traditional method in several towns of the state of Jalisco, such as Mazamitla, Sayula, and Atotonilco el Alto.
Cajeta is made by simmering goat 's milk, or occasionally a sweetened द्रव, stirring अक्सर, जबतक it becomes very viscous due to evaporation of water, and caramelized.
जबकि बकरी मिल्क is the सबसे usual base, other liquids or juices may be used.
In Celaya, and eventually the rest of Mexico, the confection of half goat 's मिल्क और हाफ गाय 's मिल्क became ज्ञात by the नाम cajeta, लकिन elsewhere, the मिल्क कैंडी became known as leche quemada, dulce de leche, etc.
It has cousins in the many Indian milk-based sweets like pera and the milk fudge burfi, और in the ओपेरा फ़ज of the u.S. cajeta is खाया on इसके अपना as a मीठी, as a स्प्रेड or भरना लिये breads और pastries, ऐसे as churros, and as a topping for ice cream.
Certain liquors are added to खास व्यंजनों पुकारा cajeta envinada.
In जोड, cajeta envinada especial is समृद्ध with raisins, almonds, pecans or nuts.
Often it is used as a topping for crêpes, as a sweet सॉस boiled और softened bas साथ मिल्क to soak the crepes, resulting in a tasty dessert.
In Mexico many brands make cajeta लकिन the सबसे आम ब्रांड is coronado.
It is also very common to प्लेस cajeta between obleas to make a traditional Mexican dessert.
Prince William, Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 जून 1982 ), is the elder बेटे of चार्ल्स, प्रिंस of वेल्स, और डायना, राजकुमारी of वेल्स, और third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
He is second in the line of succession, behind his father, to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the संयुक्त किंगडम, कनाडा, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, नई जीलैंड, जमैका, बारबाडोस, the बहामा, हरा, पापुआ नई गिनी, the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स, तुवालू, संत लूसिया, संत विंसेंट और the grenadines, बेलीज़, अण्टीगुआ और Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Prince William was educated at four schools in the United Kingdom and obtained a degree from the विश्वविद्यालयों of st एंड्रयूज.
He spent भाग of a गैप साल in चिली, बेलीज़, तंजानिया, और कीनिया जहाँ he has lived and holidayed several times.
Prince William has भी लिया kiswahili अध्ययन at विश्वविद्यालयों in Kenya and Tanzania.
He was commissioned as a लेफ्टिनेंट in the ब्लूज़ और रॉयल्स रेजीमेंट of the household Cavalry —serving with his brother Prince Harry —and, two years later, earned his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the royal एयर फ़ोर्स, थी प्रचारित to उड़ान लेफ्टिनेंट and underwent helicopter flying training in order to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force.
In 2010, he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter training and went on to RAF Valley on No. 22 स्क्वाड्रन performing co-pilot कर्तव्य on फलक a समुद्र किंग ढूंढें और बचाव हेलीकाप्टर.
Prince William married his longtime गर्लफ्रेंड, कैथरीन मिडलटन, on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey.
Hours prior to his विवाह, प्रिंस विलियम थी निर्मित ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज, Earl of Strathearn, and Baron Carrickfergus.
Mali is a बहुभाषी country.
The languages spoken there reflect ancient settlement पैटर्न, migrations, और इसके long history.
Ethnologue रिश्तो 50 भाषाएं.
Of these, French is the आधिकारिक भाषा and Bambara is the most widely spoken.
Altogether 13 of the indigenous languages of माली have the विधिक औकात of नेशनल language.
Sign in फ्रेंच, at a स्मारक in Bamako.
{ { infobox अवकाश
Chinese नई साल
9 – 12 फ़रवरी ( वियतनाम )
Rogers Building, the मुख्यालय of रोजर्स संचार
Rogers Communications Inc. is a diversified पब्लिक कनाडाई संचार and media company.
It is particularly in the field of wireless communications, cable television, टेलीफोन, और अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी साथ significant अतिरिक्त दूरसंचार और mass media assets.
The company is headquartered in the रोजर्स भवन in टोरंटो, ओंटारियो.
The कम्पनी दावा the विरासत of the रोजर्स वैक्यूम ट्यूब कम्पनी, संस्थापित in 1925 by Edward Rogers, which started the CFRB radio station in Toronto, which was later acquired by outside interests.
The present enterprise dates to 1960, जब रोजर्स ' बेटे, टेड रोजर्स, संस्थापित रोजर्स रेडियो Broadcasting Ltd.
That company acquired chfi कि साल, as खूब as aldred-rogers प्रसारण, a साझेदारी with Joel Aldred which helped launch CFTO in 1961.
Rogers later bought out Aldred and started the वर्तमान केबल और बेतार परिचालन, known as Rogers Cablesystems Ltd.
The chief competitor to the company is Bell Canada, which has a similarly extensive पोर्टफोलियो of रेडियो और टेलीविज़न मीडिया एसेट, as खूब as बेतार, टेलीविज़न वितरण, और टेलीफोन सेवाएं, विशेषकर in पूर्वी and Central Canada ; the two companies are often seen as having a duopoly on communications services in their regions.
However, the company also competes nationally with Telus for बेतार सेवाएं, और primarily indirectly साथ शॉ संचार लिये टेलीविज़न service.
the कम्पनी भी competes साथ a क्रमांक of other media companies in the broadcasting industry.
The Internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks that use the मानक अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल सुइट ( tcp/ip ) to serve अरबों of users worldwide.
It is a संजाल of संजाल कि consists of लाखो of निजी, पब्लिक, academic, business, and government networks, of local to global scope, that are linked by a broad array of electronic, wireless and optical networking technologies.
The Internet carries an extensive दायरा of सूचना संसाधन और सेवाएं, such as the inter-linked hypertext documents of the World Wide Web ( WWW ) and the infrastructure to support email.
Most traditional communications media including telephone, music, film, and television are being reshaped or redefined by the Internet, giving birth to नई सेवाएं ऐसे as आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) और अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल टेलीविज़न ( iptv ).
Newspaper, book and अन्य छपाई प्रकाशन हैं adapting to वेब साईट प्रौद्योगिकी, or are reshaped into blogging and web feeds.
The Internet has enabled and accelerated नई फ़ॉर्म of इंसान interactions through तत्काल messaging, अंतरजाल forums, and social networking.
Online shopping has boomed both for major retail outlets and small शिल्पकार और व्यापारियों.
business-to-business और वित्तीय सेवाएं on the अंतरजाल affect supply chains across entire industries.
the origins of the अंतरजाल पहुँचें वापस to शोध commissioned by the United States government in the 1960s to build robust, fault-tolerant communication via computer networks.
The funding of a new U.S. backbone by the National विज्ञान न्यास in the 1980s, as खूब as निजी funding लिये अन्य वाणिज्यिक backbones, led to विश्वव्यापी भागीदारी in the development of new networking technologies, and the merger of many networks.
The commercialization of what was by the 1990s an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संजाल resulted in इसके popularization और incorporation into वस्तुतः every aspect of modern human life.
, more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world 's human population —have used the services of the Internet ; approximately 100 times more people than were using it in 1995, जब it थी ज़्यादातर प्रयुक्त by tech-savvy मध्य और अपर क्लास लोगों in the संयुक्त राज्य और अनेक अन्य देशों.
The Internet has no centralized शासन in either technological क्रियान्वयन or नीतियों for access and usage ; each constituent network sets its own policies.
Only the overreaching परिभाषाएं of the दो प्रिंसिपल नाम स्पेसेस in the अंतरजाल, the अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल पता स्पेस और the डोमेन Name System, are directed by a maintainer organization, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ).
The technical underpinning and standardization of the कोर प्रोटोकॉल ( ipv4 और ipv6 ) is an कार्यकलाप of the अंतरजाल अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य फ़ोर्स ( ietf ), a non-profit संगठन of loosely संबद्ध अंतरराष्ट्रीय participants that anyone may associate with by contributing technical expertise.
The 2006 शीत ओलंपिक, officially ज्ञात as the xx ओलम्पिक शीत खेल, was a winter multi-sport event which was celebrated in Turin, Italy from February 10, 2006, through February 26, 2006.
This marked the second time Italy hosted the Olympic Winter Games, the first being the सात ओलम्पिक शीत खेल in cortina d'ampezzo in 1956.
इटली भी hosted the Games of the XVII Olympiad in Rome in 1960.
Turin was चयनित as the मेजबान नगर for the 2006 games in 1999.
The आधिकारिक लोगो प्रदर्शित the नाम `` टोरिनो '', the इतालवी नाम of the नगर ; the नगर is ज्ञात as `` Turin '' in both English and the local traditional language, Piedmontese.
The Olympic mascots of Torino 2006 were Neve ( `` snow '' in इतालवी ), a मादा स्नोबॉल, और gliz, a male ice cube.
The official motto of the XX Olympic Winter Games was `` जुनून जीवनदान यहाँ ''.
`` सहायता ! '' is a सोंग by the बीटल्स कि परोसा as the शीर्षक song for both the 1965 film and its soundtrack album.
It was also released as a single, and was क्रमांक एक लिये तीन सप्ताह in दोनो the संयुक्त राज्य और the संयुक्त Kingdom.
`` Help ! '' was written primarily by जॉन लेनन, लकिन credited to Lennon–McCartney.
During an interview with Playboy in 1984, Paul mccartney stated कि the शीर्षक थी `` आउट of छटपटाहट ''.
पोस्टर लिये the 2005 exhibition
Siegfried Bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6 सितंबर 1905 ), जो प्रायः दिया उसके नाम as S. bing, और थी यूँ प्रायः संदर्भित erroneously as `` सैमुएल bing '' ( सैमुएल ओटो Bing, 1850–1905, was his brother ) was a German art dealer who lived in Paris as an adult, and who helped introduce Japanese art and artworks to the West and was a factor in the development of the Art Nouveau style during the late nineteenth century.
तुलना of पुरूष और मादा जीवन प्रत्याशा at जनम लिये देशों और territories as defined in the 2011 CIA Factbook, with selected bubbles labelled.
The dotted line corresponds to बराबर मादा और पुरूष जीवन expectancy.
The apparent 3d आयतन of the बुलबुले हैं linearly proportional to their population.
This is a list of countries by जीवन प्रत्याशा at जनम.
kennewick is a नगर in benton काउंटी in the southeastern भाग of the U.S. state of Washington, near the Hanford nuclear site.
It is the most populous of the तीन शहरों collectively referred to as the tri-cities ( the others being Pasco and Richland ).
Kennewick is located along the southwest बैंको of the कोलंबिया नदी, विपरीत pasco और बस south of the confluence of the Columbia and Yakima rivers.
The जनसांख्यिकी थी 73,917 at the 2010 census.
April 1, 2012 estimates from the Washington राज्य दफ्तर of वित्तीय प्रबन्धन put the नगर 's जनसांख्यिकी at 75,160.
The nearest commercial विमानक्षेत्र is the tri-cities विमानक्षेत्र in Pasco, a regional commercial and private airport.
Forbes magazine named kennewick the # 2 क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये जॉब विकास, while nearby Yakima was named # 1.
The article cites the number of scientists employed by the प्रशांत उत्तरपश्चिम नेशनल प्रयोगशाला और क्षेत्रफल farmland लिये इस आउटलुक.
The prothrombin time ( PT ) और इसके निकला उपायों of prothrombin अनुपात ( pr ) और अंतरराष्ट्रीय सामान्यीकृत अनुपात ( inr ) हैं उपायों of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation.
This test is भी पुकारा `` protime inr '' and `` PT/INR ''.
वे हैं प्रयुक्त to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the measure of warfarin dosage, liver damage, and vitamin K status.
PT उपायों कारकों i ( fibrinogen ), II ( prothrombin ), V, VII, and X.
It is used in conjunction साथ the activated आंशिक thromboplastin समय ( aPTT ) which measures the intrinsic pathway.
`` I 'm in the Mood लिये प्रेम '' is a लोकप्रिय song.
The music was लिखा by jimmy mchugh, the गीत by Dorothy Fields.
The song थी प्रकाशित in 1935.
It was introduced by Frances Langford in the movie Every Night at आठ released कि साल.
The song was featured in the 1936 Our Gang ( Little Rascals ) short, the पिंच सिंगर, सुंग by कार्ल `` अल्फाल्फा '' Switzer, and in the 1936 film Palm Springs.
It is often known to be switzer 's हस्ताक्षर सोंग.
James Moody 's saxophone सोलो on a 1952 रिकॉर्डिंग of इस सोंग प्रेरित the song `` Moody 's Mood for Love ``.
Hip hop artist Prince Paul sampled the song as the basis for the track `` Mood for Love '' on his album A Prince Among Thieves ( 1999 ), साथ डॉन newkirk गायन इसके original lyrics.
The सोंग 's शीर्षक प्रेरित the अंग्रेज़ी title of Wong Kar Wai 's movie In the Mood for Love.
Cross-cultural psychology is the scientific study of human behavior and mental प्रक्रियाओं, सहित दोनो उनके variability और invariance, अंतर्गत विविध cultural conditions.
Through expanding research methodologies to recognize cultural variance in behavior, भाषा, और अर्थ it seeks to extend और develop psychology.
Since psychology as an academic discipline was developed largely in North America, some psychologists became concerned that constructs स्वीकृत as सार्वभौमिक यहूद नहीं as निश्चर as previously assumed, विशेषकर चूंकि अनेक कोशिशें to replicate notable experiments in other cultures had varying success.
Since there are questions as to whether theories dealing with central themes, such as affect, cognition, conceptions of the self, and मुद्दे ऐसे as psychopathology, चिंता, और अवसाद, may कमी बाह्य वैध जब `` exported '' to अन्य सांस्कृतिक contexts, cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान re-examines उन्हें using methodologies designed to फ़ैक्टर in सांस्कृतिक मतभेद so as to खाता लिये सांस्कृतिक variance.
Although some critics have pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural psychological शोध और अर्जी कि गंभीर त्रुटियां in the सैद्धांतिक और methodological bases प्रयुक्त impede बल्कि than सहायता the वैज्ञानिक ढूंढें लिये सार्वभौमिक सिद्धान्त in मनोविज्ञान, cross-cultural psychologists हैं turning अधिक to the पढ़ाई of कैसा differences ( variance ) occur, rather than searching for universals in the style of physics or chemistry.
In 1972 the International Association of cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान ( iaccp ) थी स्थापित.
This branch of psychology has जारी to विस्तार as वहीँ रै महरूम an increasing लोकप्रियता of incorporating संस्कृति और विविधता into studies.
Cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान is differentiated इससे सांस्कृतिक psychology.
The latter is the branch of psychology that holds that human behavior is significantly influenced by cultural differences, meaning that psychological phenomena can तभी be compared साथ प्रत्येक अन्य आरपार संस्कृतियों to a बहुत सीमित extent.
In contrast, cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान शामिल a search for possible universals in behavior and mental processes.
Walter J. Lonner, लिखने लिये नजर on psi ची, रै stated कि `` cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान can be thought of as a type research methodology, rather than an entirely separate field within psychology ( 2000 ). ''
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist महिला गागा, इससे उसके दूसरी स्टुडियो एल्बम Born This Way ( 2011 ).
It was released by interscope रिकॉर्ड on अप्रैल 15, 2011, चार दिनों ahead of its scheduled release.
Written and produced by Lady Gaga and RedOne, `` Judas '' is a dance और इलेक्ट्रो हाउस सोंग परिचय a स्त्री in प्रेम साथ a man जो गद्दारी उसके.
It embodies the incidents कि have haunted गागा in the पास्ट, और its core meaning refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape.
Gaga has further explained that the सोंग थी भी परिचय honoring एक 's भीतरी अंधेरा in order to bring oneself into the light.
The artwork for the सिंगल थी designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word.
In spite of a polarizing प्रभाव on अनेक धार्मिक समूह, the सोंग थी generally खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों, जो likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single.
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous redone-produced ट्रैक्स, सहित `` पोकर फेस ``, `` lovegame ``, `` Bad Romance '', and `` Alejandro ``.
it contains तीन पृथक hooks and a house -influenced break down.
Gaga समझाया कि the लाइनों बोला दौरान the विश्लेषण talk about her as beyond redemption, regarding the traditional views of what a woman should be.
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales opening, but थी कम कामयाब commercially in तुलना to गागा 's previous singles.
The song reached the top टेन of the चार्ट in सबसे प्रमुख म्यूज़िक बाज़ार, और भी पहुँचे the top of the charts in South Korea.
a म्यूज़िक वीडियो लिये the सोंग थी फिल्माया in अप्रैल 2011, co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus.
It has a Biblical storyline where Reedus निभाई यहूदा इस्कैरियट और गागा निभाई मरियम magdalene.
The video portrays उन्हें as आधुनिक दिन प्रचारकों going to Jerusalem.
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying Jesus, and ended साथ गागा as magdalene getting stoned to मौत.
Before its release, the Catholic League condemned गागा लिये the कथित उपयोग of धार्मिक imagery और उसके भूमिका in the video.
However, critics generally praised the वीडियो, नहीं ढूंढना any offensive content.
the वीडियो थी मनोनीत for two awards at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards.
Gaga has performed `` यहूदा '' on a क्रमांक of टेलीविज़न shows, सहित the ग्राहम नॉर्टन दिखाएँ, शनिवार रात्रि सजीव, Good Morning Americas `` Summer Concert Series '', the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or avc ( उन्नत वीडियो कोडिंग ) is a मानक लिये वीडियो संपीडन, और is फिलहाल एक of the सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त स्वरुप लिये the रिकॉर्डिंग, संपीडन, and distribution of high definition video.
The final drafting work on the पहला संस्करण of the मानक थी completed in May 2003.
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -आधारd कोडेक मानक विकसित by the itu-t वीडियो कोडिंग विशेषज्ञ Group ( VCEG ) together with the ISO/IEC JTC1 Moving Picture Experts Group ( MPEG ).
The project साझेदारी प्रयत्न is ज्ञात as the Joint Video Team ( JVT ).
The itu-t h.264 मानक और the iso/iec mpeg-4 avc मानक ( formally, iso/iec 14496-10 – mpeg-4 भाग 10, उन्नत वीडियो कोडिंग ) हैं jointly maintained so that they have identical technical content.
H.264 is perhaps best known as being one of the codec standards for blu-ray discs ; सब blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी जरूर be समर्थ to decode H.264.
It is also widely used by streaming internet sources, such as videos from Vimeo, youtube, और the itunes स्टोर, वेब तन्त्र ऐसे as the adobe फ्लैश खिलाड़ी और microsoft silverlight, और भी विभिन्न hdtv प्रसारण over स्थलीय ( atsc, isdb-t, dvb-t or DVB-T2 ), cable ( DVB-C ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ).
Non-binding arbitration is a type of arbitration in which the arbitrator makes a determination of the rights of the पार्टियों to the विवाद, लकिन इस determination is नहीं बाइंडिंग upon them, and no enforceable arbitration award is issued.
The `` award '' is in प्रभाव an सलाहकार राय of the arbitrator 's view of the respective merits of the parties cases.
Non-binding arbitration is used in कनेक्शन साथ कोशिशें to पहुँचें a negotiated settlement.
The role of an arbitrator in non-binding मध्यस्थता is, on the सतह, similar to that of a mediator in a mediation.
However, the principal distinction is that whereas a mediator will try to help the parties ढूँढें a मध्य मैदान to सुलह at, the arbitrator remains totally removed इससे the उपनिवेश प्रक्रम और होगा तभी दे a determination of देयता and, if appropriate, an indication of the quantum of damages payable.
subsequent to a non-binding मध्यस्थता, the पार्टियों remain फ़्री to pursue उनके दावा either through the courts, or by way of a binding arbitration, although in practice a settlement is the most common outcome.
the पुरस्कार और तर्क in a non-binding मध्यस्थता is लगभग invariably inadmissible in any subsequent action in the courts or in another arbitration tribunal.
Non-binding मध्यस्थता is utilised ज़्यादातर in the United States and Canada.
It is largely unknown in Europe, although in the United Kingdom there is a practice of parties who are seeking a settlement to jointly instruct a Queen 's Counsel for an राय on the merits और संभावित क्वांटम of a अर्जी, और तब to negotiate on the आधार of the दृश्य expressed in that opinion.
Augustine Volcano is a Lava Dome Complex on अगस्टाइन द्वीप in southwestern कुक इनलेट in the kenai Peninsula Borough of southcentral coastal Alaska, southwest of Anchorage.
The Alaska Volcano Observatory currently rates Mount Augustine as Level of Concern Color Code ग्रीन लिये विमानन और the ज्वालामुखी चेतावनी स्तर is at सामान्य.
Augustine Island रै a जमीन क्षेत्रफल of, जबकि वेस्ट द्वीप, बस off Augustine 's western shores, has.
The द्वीप is बना up मुख्यतः of past eruption deposits.
Scientists have been able to discern that पास्ट गुम्बद पतन रै resulted in विशाल avalanches.
A मैप of Belize.
The country of Belize रै roughly 386 km of तटरेखा, और रै अनेक मूँगा reefs, cays, और आइलैंड्स in the Caribbean Sea.
सबसे of ये रूप the बेलीज़ अवरोध रीफ, the longest in the western hemisphere stemming approximately.
the रीफ और इसके आइलैंड्स have महरूम a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1996.
the following is a सूची of oceanic आइलैंड्स of बेलीज़, arranged according to region but all of which are in the Caribbean Sea.
Most of the islands variate in स्पेलिंग between `` cay '' और `` caye '', and also use the Spanish `` cayo ''.
River islands have नहीं महरूम सूचीबद्ध.
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued commercial packet writing application for the microsoft खिड़कियाँ ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली कि allows ऑप्टिकल disc data storage devices to be used in a manner similar to floppy disks.
DLA is a पैकेट लिखने प्रौद्योगिकी लिये cd and DVD media that uses the UDF file system.
DLA is not compatible with Windows Vista और नए, हालांकि a पैच exists to फिक्स this issue under Windows Vista.
roxio बर्न थी introduced on April 30, 2009.
As a बदलना लिये dla, it remedies संगतता issues Internet Explorer 8.
Alpha रेक्स emmanuel humbard ( अगस्त 13, 1919 – सितंबर 21, 2007 ) थी a well-known अमरीकी टेलीविज़न evangelist whose Cathedral of Tomorrow show was shown on over 600 stations at the peak of its popularity.
Limitless is a 2011 American थ्रिलर फिल्मी निर्देशित by neil बर्गर और अभिनीत ब्राडली Cooper, Abbie Cornish, and Robert De Niro.
It is based on the 2001 अनोखा the अंधेरा फ़ील्ड by एलन glynn साथ the पटकथा by Leslie Dixon.
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States, situated in the northwest extremity of the North American continent, with the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary साथ कनाडा to the ईस्ट, the आर्कटिक समंदर to the उत्तर, और the प्रशांत Ocean to the west and south, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait.
Alaska is the largest राज्य in the संयुक्त राज्य by क्षेत्रफल, the 4th तनिक populous और the तनिक densely populated of the 50 United States.
लगभग हाफ of अलास्का 's 731,449 निवासियों live within the Anchorage metropolitan area.
Alaska 's economy is वर्चस्व by the आयल, प्राकृतिक गैस, और फ़िशिंग उद्योग ; it रै ये संसाधन in abundance.
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30, 1867, लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $ समायोजित for inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ).
The land went through several administrative changes before becoming an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11, 1912, और the 49th राज्य of the u.S. on January 3, 1959.
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the रूसी औपनिवेशिक काल, जब it थी प्रयुक्त तभी लिये the प्रायद्वीप और is निकला इससे the aleut alaxsxaq, अर्थ `` the मेनलैंड '' or, more literally, `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed ''.
It is also known as alyeska, the `` ग्रेट जमीन '', an Aleut word derived from the same root.
नेल्सन मंडेला महानगर विश्वविद्यालयों ( nmmu ) is a दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी tertiary education institution with its main administration in the coastal city of Port Elizabeth.
A विलय of तीन संस्थानों संस्थापित nmmu in जनवरी 2005 लकिन इसके इतिहास तिथियाँ वापस to 1882 with the foundation of Port Elizabeth Art School.
The University draws अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्यार्थी इससे all over the world.
There are over 3000 international students and include students from the United States, France, China, Germany, Belgium, Denmark, फिनलैंड, नीदरलैंड्स, नार्वे, स्वीडन, संयुक्त किंगडम और अनेक other countries.
NMMU is a comprehensive university offering पेशेवर और वोकेशनल प्रशिक्षण.
The विश्वविद्यालयों रै छह campuses - five in Port Elizabeth and one in George.
the प्रमुख कैम्पस is the South Campus.
Students at NMMU can study towards diplomas and डिग्री up to और सहित डॉक्टरेट स्तर योग्यता.
A number of पाठ्यक्रम शामिल कार्यस्थल अनुभव as भाग of the curriculum.
CoverGirl is an American cosmetics brand founded in Maryland, by the noxzema रासायनिक कम्पनी ( बाद पुकारा noxell ) and acquired by Procter & Gamble in 1989.
The Noxell Company advertised इस कॉस्मेटिक्स लकीर by allowing `` कवर लड़कियों '', फ़ैशन मॉडल जो appear on the front cover of women 's magazines, to wear its products.
CoverGirl makes up for lack of direct individual customer service by providing a चौड़ी किस्में of कॉस्मेटिक्स उपलब्धियाँ at उचित कीमतें.
On the Origin of Species, published on 24 November 1859, is a कार्य of वैज्ञानिक साहित्य by चार्ल्स डार्विन जिससे is माना to be the foundation of evolutionary biology.
Its full title was On the Origin of Species by Means of प्राकृतिक चयन, or the संरक्षण of favoured दौड़ in the संघर्ष for Life.
लिये the छठे संस्करण of 1872, the short title was changed to The Origin of Species.
Darwin 's book introduced the scientific theory that populations evolve over the कोर्स of पीढियां through a प्रक्रम of प्राकृतिक चयन.
It presented a body of evidence that the diversity of life arose by आम descent through a branching pattern of evolution.
Darwin शामिल प्रमाण कि he था gathered on the beagle expedition in the 1830s और उसके subsequent findings from research, correspondence, and experimentation.
विभिन्न विकासवादी विचार था already महरूम proposed to explain new findings in biology.
There was growing support for such ideas among dissident anatomists and the general public, but during the first half of the 19th century the English वैज्ञानिक स्थापना थी closely tied to the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड, जबकि विज्ञान थी भाग of प्राकृतिक धर्मशास्त्र.
Ideas about the transmutation of species were controversial as they conflicted with the beliefs that species were unchanging parts of a designed पदानुक्रम और कि इंसानो यहूद अद्वितीय, unrelated to अन्य पशु.
The political and theological implications यहूद पडती debated, लकिन transmutation थी नहीं accepted by the scientific mainstream.
The book was written for non-specialist पाठक और आकर्षित फैली ब्याज upon इसके प्रकाशन.
As Darwin was an eminent scientist, his findings were taken seriously and the evidence he प्रस्तुत उत्पन्न वैज्ञानिक, philosophical, and religious discussion.
The debate over the किताब contributed to the अभियान by t.h. हक्स्ले और उसके fellow सदस्यों of the x क्लबों to secularise science by promoting scientific naturalism.
Within two decades there was widespread scientific agreement that evolution, with a branching pattern of common descent, had occurred, लकिन वैज्ञानिकों यहूद slow to दे प्राकृतिक चयन the significance कि डार्विन विचार appropriate.
During the `` eclipse of डार्विनवाद `` इससे the 1880s to the 1930s, विभिन्न अन्य mechanisms of evolution were given more credit.
With the development of the modern evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s, डार्विन 's अवधारणा of विकासवादी अनुकूलन through प्राकृतिक चयन became सेंट्रल to आधुनिक विकासवादी theory, now the unifying concept of the life sciences.
Charles डिलन `` केसी '' स्टेंगल ( ; जुलाई 30, 1890 – सितंबर 29, 1975 ), nicknamed `` The Old Perfessor '', was an American Major League Baseball outfielder and manager.
He was निर्वाचित to the Baseball Hall of Fame in.
Stengel was born in Kansas City, Missouri, and originally nicknamed `` डच '', a आम उपनाम at कि time for Americans of German ancestry.
After his major league career began, he acquired the nickname `` Casey '', which originally came from the initials of his गृहनगर ( `` K. C. '' ), जिससे विकसित into `` केसी '', बहकावे by the चौड़ी लोकप्रियता of the कविता केसी at the Bat.
In the 1950s, sportswriters उतावले उसे साथ yet another उपनाम, `` The Old Professor '' ( or `` Perfessor '' ), for his sharp wit and his ability to talk at length on anything baseball -related.
Although उसके बेसबॉल करियर spanned a क्रमांक of टीमों और शहरों, he is primarily associated with clubs in New York City.
between playing और मैनेजिंग, he is the only man to have worn four of New York 's major league clubs ' uniforms.
He was the पहला of चार मेन ( through the ऋतु ) to मैनेज दोनो the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़ and New York Mets ; Yogi Berra, Dallas Green, and Joe Torre are the others.
जैसे टोरेस, he भी प्रबंधित the Braves and the Dodgers.
He ended his baseball career as the beloved मैनेजर लिये the तब विस्तार नई यॉर्क मेट्स, जिससे जीती over the hearts of New York partly due to the unique character of their veteran leader.
June ( ) is the sixth माह of the साल in the जूलियन और gregorian calendars and one of the four months with a length of 30 days.
Ovid provides two etymologies for June 's name in उसके कविता concerning the महीने हकदार the Fasti.
The first is कि the माह is नामित बाद the रोमन देवी juno, बीवी of बृहस्पति और समतुल्य to the यूनानी देवी hera ; the दूसरी is कि the नाम comes from the Latin word iuniores, meaning `` younger ones, '' as opposed to maiores ( `` elders '' ) for which the preceding month May may be named ( Fasti VI.1–88 ).
See : Months in various calendars also called the season of the June is the माह साथ the longest daylight घंटों of the साल in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और the shortest daylight hours of the year in the Southern Hemisphere.
June in the Northern Hemisphere is the seasonal समतुल्य to दिसम्बर in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध और वाइस versa.
In the Northern hemisphere, the शुरूआत of the meteorological गर्मियाँ is 1 June.
In the Southern गोलार्ध, the शुरूआत of the meteorological winter is 1 June.
At the प्रारंभ of जून, the सूर्य उदय in the नक्षत्र of वृष ; at the end of June, the sun rises in the constellation of Gemini.
However, due to the precession of the equinoxes, जून begins साथ the सूर्य in the astrological sign of Gemini, and ends with the sun in the astrological sign of Cancer.
June is known for the विशाल क्रमांक of विवाह कि occur over the course of the month.
According to one etymology, जून is नामित after Juno ( Hera ).
Juno was the goddess of विवाह और a शादीशुदा युगल 's household, so कुछ consider it शुभ लक to be married in this month.
According to another etymology provided by the Roman poet Ovid, June is named for the iuniores, latin for `` young लोगों '' ( fasti vi.88 ) और कि the माह of may is नामित लिये the maiores, लैटिन लिये `` बड़ो ''.
In आइसलैंड, लोकगीत says कि if तुम bathe नग्न in the morning ओस on the morning of June 24, you are supposed to keep aging at bay for longer.
A constitution is a set of fundamental principles or established precedents according to जिससे a राज्य or अन्य organization is governed.
These नियम साथ मेक up, i.e. constitute, what the entity is.
When these principles are written down into a single document or set of legal दस्तावेज़, those दस्तावेज़ may be कहा to embody a लिखा संविधान ; if वे हैं लिखा down in a single comprehensive document, it is said to embody a codified constitution.
constitutions चिंता अलग स्तर of संगठन, from sovereign states to companies and unincorporated associations.
A treaty which establishes an international organization is also its संविधान, in कि it होता define कैसा कि संगठन is गठित.
Within states, whether sovereign or federated, a संविधान defines the सिद्धान्त upon जिससे the राज्य is based, the procedure in which laws are made and by whom.
Some constitutions, विशेषकर संहिताबद्ध constitutions, भी अधिनियम as limiters of state power, by establishing lines which a state 's rulers can not cross, such as fundamental rights.
George Washington at संवैधानिक सम्मेलन of 1787, हस्ताक्षर of U.S. Constitution.
The Constitution of India is the longest लिखा संविधान of कोई sovereign देश in the संसार, containing 448 आलेख, 12 schedules और 100 amendments, with 117,369 words in its English language version, while the United States Constitution is the shortest written constitution, at 7 articles and 27 amendments.
Ron Diftler ( left ), NASA Robonaut manager assisting in a Robonaut familiarization training session in the स्पेस पर्यावरण सिमुलेशन प्रयोगशाला at नासा 's जॉनसन Space Center.
Engineering management is a specialized form of प्रबन्धन कि is चिंतित साथ the अनुप्रयोग of engineering principles to business practice.
Engineering management is a करियर कि brings साथ the technological problem-solving savvy of अभियान्त्रिकी और the organizational, administrative, and planning abilities of management in order to oversee complex enterprises from conception to completion.
Example areas of engineering are product development, manufacturing, construction, design engineering, industrial अभियान्त्रिकी, प्रौद्योगिकी, उत्पादन, or कोई अन्य फ़ील्ड कि employs कर्मियों जो perform an अभियान्त्रिकी function.
Successful engineering प्रबंधक typically आवश्यकता प्रशिक्षण और अनुभव in business and engineering.
Technically inept managers tend to be deprived of support by their technical team, and non-commercial प्रबंधक tend to कमी वाणिज्यिक सूझबूझ to उद्धार in a market economy.
Largely, engineering managers manage engineers who are driven by non-entrepreneurial सोच, यूँ आवश्यकता the जरुरी लोगों कौशल to कोच, mentor और motivate technical professionals.
Engineering professionals joining manufacturing companies sometimes become अभियान्त्रिकी प्रबंधक by डिफॉल्ट बाद a काल of समय.
They are required to learn how to manage once they are on the job, though इस is प्रायः an अप्रभावी रास्ता to develop managerial abilities.
In an insurance policy, the deductible is the राशि of खर्च कि जरूर be सशुल्क आउट of जेब पहले an insurer will pay any expenses.
In general उपयोग, the पद deductible may be प्रयुक्त to describe एक of अनेक प्रकार of clauses ( see below ) that are used by insurance companies as a threshold for policy payments.
Deductibles are typically प्रयुक्त to deter the विशाल क्रमांक of नगण्य दावा कि a उपभोक्ता can be reasonably expected to bear the cost of.
By restricting इसके कवरेज to कार्यक्रम कि हैं significant पर्याप्त to incur large costs, the insurance firm expects to pay out slightly smaller amounts much less frequently, incurring much higher savings.
As a result, insurance premiums are typically सस्ता जब वे involve उच्चतर deductibles.
Deductibles are normally provided as clauses in an insurance नीति कि dictate कैसा much of an insurance-covered व्यय is borne by the policyholder.
वे हैं सामान्यतः कोटेड as a फिक्स्ड मात्रा और is a part of most policies covering losses to the policy holder.
The insurer तब becomes liable लिये claimable खर्च कि exceed this amount ( subject to the maximum sum claimable indicated in the contract ).
Depending on the policy, the deductible may लागू प्रति covered घटना, or प्रति साल.
For policies where incidences are not easy to delimit ( लिये उदाहरण स्वास्थ्य बीमे ), the deductible is typically applied per year.
Several deductibles can be नियत by the insurer based on the cause of the claim.
For example, a single आवास बीमे नीति may contain अनेक deductible amounts for loss or damage arising from theft, fire, natural calamities, evacuation etc.
There are also deductible reimbursement कार्यक्रम कि reimburse a deductible in the event of an auto, home, boat/yacht or health insurance claim.
An invoice or bill is a commercial document issued by a seller to a buyer, indicating the उत्पाद, quantities, और सहमत कीमतें लिये उत्पाद or सेवाएं the विक्रेता रै provided the buyer.
An invoice indicates the बिक्री लेनदेन तभी.
Payment terms हैं स्वतंत्र of the चालान और हैं negotiated by the buyer and the seller.
Payment terms are usually शामिल on the चालान.
The buyer could have already सशुल्क लिये the उत्पाद or सेवाएं सूचीबद्ध on the invoice.
Buyer can also have a maximum number of दिनों in जिससे to अदा लिये ये goods और is sometimes offered a छूट if सशुल्क पहले the due date.
In the rental industry, an invoice must include a specific सन्दर्भ to the अवधि of the समय होने billed, so in जोड to मात्रा, दाम और छूट the invoicing amount is also based on duration.
Generally प्रत्येक लकीर of a rental चालान होगा refer to the वास्तविक घंटों, दिनों, weeks, months, etc., being billed.
From the point of view of a विक्रेता, an चालान is a बिक्री invoice.
From the पाइंट of दृश्य of a खरीदार, an चालान is a purchase invoice.
The document indicates the buyer and विक्रेता, लकिन the पद चालान indicates धन is owed or owing.
In English, the context of the पद चालान is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to clarify इसके अर्थ, ऐसे as `` we भेजा उन्हें an invoice '' ( they owe us money ) or `` We received an invoice from them '' ( we owe them money ).
The right main bronchus ( or right primary bronchus, or right प्रिंसिपल bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory system.
It is wider, shorter, and अधिक लंबवत in दिशा than the left.
It is about 2.5 cm long, और enters the सही फेफड़ों nearly विपरीत the fifth thoracic vertebra.
The azygos रग arches over it इससे पीछे ; और the सही pulmonary artery lies at first below and then in front of it.
परिचय 2 cm इससे इसके शुरुआत it देता बंद a branch to the upper lobe of the right lung.
This is termed the eparterial branch of the bronchus, क्युकी it arises ऊपर the सही pulmonary artery.
The bronchus now passes below the artery, and is known as the hyparterial शाखा ; it divides into दो शाखाओं for the middle and lower lobes.
If a foreign body in the airway passes through the श्वासनली, it होगा सबसे संभावित डालें the सही प्रमुख bronchus बजाय of the बाएँ, due to the straighter alignment of the right bronchus to the trachea.
Squash is a racquet sport played by two ( singles ) or four players ( doubles ) in a four-walled court with a छोटी, खोखला रबर बॉल.
The players must alternate in striking the ball with their racquet और hit the बॉल onto the playable surfaces of the four walls of the court.
The game was formerly called squash racquets, a reference to the `` squashable '' नरम बॉल प्रयुक्त in the खेल ( compared साथ the fatter बॉल प्रयुक्त in इसके जनक खेल racquets or rackets ).
Squash is पहचाना by the ioc और समर्थक हैं lobbying for its incorporation in a future Olympic program.
In 2003, Forbes rated squash as the क्रमांक एक healthiest खेल to play.
Residual oil is oil found in low एकाग्रता naturally or in बेहाल oil fields.
Often mixed with water, it can नहीं be बरामद by conventional techniques.
However, it can be recovered using carbon dioxide-enhanced oil रिकवरी ( co2 eor ) जिससे involves injecting कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड into the खूब reducing श्यानता and enhancing flow of the oil.
The technique is not new but has not been used extensively on residual oil zones, low-grade जमा of पेट्रोलियम ऐसे as the 38 वर्गाकार मील in the permian जलाशय of टेक्सास leased by elliott रूज़वेल्ट Jr.
The technique is सीमित by उपलब्धता of carbon dioxide.
It does not परिणाम in sequestration of the कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड लकिन the gas is recycled as much as possible.
संयुक्त राज्य reserves of अवशेष आयल are estimated to be 100 billion barrels.
Artist 's rendering of the fire, by जॉन R. chapin, originally मुद्रित in हार्पर 's साप्ताहिक ; the दृश्य चेहरों पूर्वोत्तर across the Randolph Street Bridge.
The Great Chicago आग थी a conflagration कि burned इससे संडे, अक्तूबर 8, to early Tuesday, October 10, 1871, killing hundreds and destroying about in Chicago, Illinois.
Though the fire was one of the largest U.S. आपदाओं of the 19th सदी, the पुनर्निर्माण कि began helped develop शिकागो as एक of the सबसे populous और economically important American cities.
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 January 1547 ) थी किंग of इंग्लैण्ड इससे 21 अप्रैल 1509 जबतक उसके death.
He was lord, और बाद किंग, of आयरलैंड, as well as continuing the nominal claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France.
Henry was the second monarch of the ट्यूडर राजवंश, succeeding उसके पिता, हेनरी VII.
Besides his six विवाह, हेनरी viii is ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिका in the विरह of the Church of England from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the separation of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे papal प्राधिकार, the विच्छेद of the Monasteries, and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England.
Yet he remained a आस्तिक in कोर कैथोलिक theological शिक्षाओं, even after his excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church.
Henry oversaw the legal union of England and वेल्स साथ the कानून in वेल्स अधिनियमों 1535 और 1542.
In 1513, the new king allied with the Holy Roman Emperor, Maximillian I, and invaded फ़्रांस in 1513 साथ a विशाल, well-equipped फौज, लकिन हासिल छोटी at a considerable financial cost.
Maximillian, for his भाग, प्रयुक्त the अंग्रेज़ी आक्रमण to उसके अपना ends, और इस prejudiced England 's ability to defeat the French.
This foray would prove the start of an obsession लिये हेनरी, जो invaded again in 1544.
This time, Henry 's forces captured the महत्वपूर्ण नगर of boulogne, लकिन again the पावन रोमन सम्राट, चार्ल्स v, समर्थित हेनरी तभी as long as he needed to and England, strained by the enormous cost of the war, ransomed the city back for peace.
His contemporaries considered Henry in his prime to be an attractive, शिक्षित और संपन्नता किंग, और he रै महरूम वर्णित as `` एक of the सबसे charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne ''.
Besides ruling with absolute power, he also सगाई खुद as an लेखक और composer.
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly क्युकी he believed a बेटी होता be असमर्थ to consolidate the ट्यूडर राजवंश और the नाजुक सलाम कि existed following the युद्धों of the Roses – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation.
Henry became रुग्ण मोटे और उसके स्वास्थ्य suffered, contributing to his death in 1547.
He is frequently characterised in उसके बाद जीवन as a lustful, egotistical, हर्ष, और असुरक्षित king.
La Reina del Sur ( The Queen of the South ) is a Spanish-language telenovela produced by the United States टेलीविज़न संजाल telemundo, in संयोजन साथ the एंटेना 3 संजाल और rti producciones.
Based on a novel of the same name by स्पेनी लेखक arturo pérez-reverte, the नाटक depicts the वृद्धि of टेरेसा मेंडोज़ा ( केट डेल कैस्टिलो ), a यंग स्त्री इससे मैक्सिको जो becomes the most powerful drug trafficker in southern Spain.
Patricio Wills, the अध्यक्ष of telemundo टेलीविज़न studios, थी the कार्यपालिका निर्माता.
Though La Reina del Sur was nominated for Novela of the साल, पसंदीदा सीसे अभिनेत्री, और बेहतरीन ख़राब लक वीडियो, it won no awards.
With a $ 10 लाख बजट, la reina डेल सूर थी the most expensive telenovela ever produced by Telemundo.
The program 's प्रीमियर on फ़रवरी 28, 2011, थी the संजाल 's उच्चतम rated premiere for a telenovela to date.
The program frequently dominated its time slot, even over English भाषा प्रोग्रामिंग on अन्य प्रमुख U.S. networks.
La Reina del Sur समाप्त इसके 63 एपीसोड चलाएं on telemundo और इसके 13 एपीसोड चलाएं on Antena 3 simultaneously on May 30, 2011.
The final episode was the उच्चतम रेटेड ब्रॉडकास्ट in telemundo 's 19-year इतिहास ( 4.2 लाख दर्शक ), और ताल सब of the English language U.S. television networks to earn the number one slot in the 18-49 adult demographic.
The program 's success spurred telemundo to लॉन्च इसके पहला अभियान to लाभ the श्रेणी an एमी पुरस्कार नामांकन.
A one-night special featuring अनेक डाल सदस्यों aired on may 31, 2011, और चिह्नित the telemundo डेब्यू of noted Latina television personality Cristina Saralegui.
La Reina del Sur is broadcast in several other markets, including सर्बिया, कोलंबिया, चिली, साइप्रस, निकारागुआ, कोस्टा रिका, मैक्सिको, अल्बानियाई, हंगेरियाई, स्लोवेनियाई, क्रोएशिया, Romania, ( among others ).
an उदाहरण of रैक mounted servers
A web hosting service is a type of अंतरजाल होस्टिंग सेवा कि allows individuals and organizations to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web.
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server स्वामित्व or leased लिये उपयोग by क्लाइंट, as खूब as providing अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी, typically in a data center.
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the Internet लिये अन्य सर्वर स्तिथ in उनके आंकड़ा बीच, पुकारा colocation, भी ज्ञात as आवास in Latin America or France.
The scope of वेब होस्टिंग सेवाएं varies greatly.
the सबसे मौलिक is वेब पेज और small-scale संचिका होस्टिंग, जहाँ files can be uploaded via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface.
The files are usually delivered to the Web `` as is '' or साथ minimal प्रसंस्करण.
Many अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( ISPs ) offer this service free to subscribers.
Individuals and organizations may भी obtain वेब पेज होस्टिंग इससे alternative service providers.
Personal web site होस्टिंग is typically फ़्री, advertisement-sponsored, or inexpensive.
Business web site hosting often रै a उच्चतर व्यय depending upon the size and type of the website.
Single page hosting is generally sufficient लिये personal web pages.
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides डेटाबेस support और अनुप्रयोग विकास प्लेटफ़ॉर्म ( e.g. पीएचपी, जावा, माणिक्य on rails, coldfusion, or ASP.NET ).
These सुविधाएं allow ग्राहक to लिखें or स्थापना स्क्रिप्ट लिये applications like forums and content management.
Also, Secure Sockets परत ( एसएसएल ) is typically प्रयुक्त लिये e-commerce.
The host may also provide an interface or control panel for managing the Web सर्वर और installing स्क्रिप्ट, as खूब as अन्य मौड्यूल और सेवा अनुप्रयोग like e-mail.
Some hosts specialize in निश्चित तन्त्र or सेवाएं ( e.g. e-commerce ), जिससे हैं commonly प्रयुक्त by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure.
मैडेन एनएफएल ( ज्ञात as जॉन मैडेन फ़ुटबॉल पहले 1993 ) is an अमरीकी football video game series developed by Electronic Arts Tiburon for EA Sports.
The game series is named after Pro फ़ुटबॉल हॉल of famer जॉन मैडेन, a well-known पूर्व सुपर कटोरी –winning कोच of the ओकलैंड Raiders and color commentator.
The series is the बेहतरीन selling ea खेल series.
The games have consistently महरूम a बेहतरीन विक्रेता, और रै भी spawned TV shows where players compete.
Among the game 's realistic features include sophisticated playbooks और खिलाड़ी आंकडे, और आवाज़ commentary कि allows खिलाड़ी to hear the game as if it were a real TV broadcast.
The Madden NFL series रै महरूम nicknamed the एनएफएल 's 33rd मताधिकार.
The series was originally conceived by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कला संस्थापक ट्रिप हॉकिन्स, जो then approached Madden in 1984 for his endorsement and expertise.
Due to Madden 's insistence कि the खेल be as यथार्थवादी as संभावित, the पहला version of John Madden Football was not released until 1988.
The second संस्करण of the खेल थी released in 1990, साथ सालाना versions since then.
The श्रेणी ' नाम थी बदला to मैडेन एनएफएल in 1993 बाद EA acquired the rights to use NFL teams and players.
despite मैडेन 's रिटायरमेंट as a प्रसारणकर्ता in 2009, he continues to lend his name and provide expertise for the game.
Cindy Lee Miller Sheehan ( born जुलाई 10, 1957 ) is an अमरीकी antiwar activist whose son, U.S. Army Specialist Casey Sheehan, was killed by enemy action during the Iraq War.
She attracted national and international media attention in August 2005 for her extended antiwar विरोध at a makeshift शिविर बाहर अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश 's टेक्सास ranch —a स्टैंड कि खींचा दोनो passionate support and angry criticism.
Sheehan भागा unsuccessfully लिये Congress in 2008.
She is a vocal आलोचक of अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा 's foreign policy.
Her संस्मरण, सलाम माँ : a माँ 's यात्रा Through Heartache to Activism, was published in 2006.
Sheehan थी the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the Peace and Freedom Party.
Wyclef jeanelle जां ( ; ; born अक्तूबर 17, 1969 ) wyclef Dumped From Haiti 's Presidential Ballot – TIME, Aug 21, 2010.
`` Before he announced on August 5 that he was running लिये अध्यक्ष of हैती, wyclef जां थी स्टिल लिस्टिंग उसके आयु as तभी 37 सालो old.
But after declaring himself a presidential candidate, the haitian-american-irish hip-hop स्टार भी decided to आइये साफ और confirm कि he थी really 40. '' is a three-time Grammy Award -winning Haitian-American rapper, singer-songwriter, musician, record producer, and politician.
At age nine, जां स्थानांतरित to the संयुक्त राज्य साथ उसके परिवार and has spent much of his life in the country.
He first received fame as a member of the acclaimed नई जर्सी हिप हॉप समूह the fugees.
On August 5, 2010, Jean दायर लिये उम्मीदवारी in the 2010 haitian अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, हालांकि the Electoral Commission subsequently ruled him ineligible to stand as he had not met the requirement to have been resident in Haiti for five years.
Wyclef Jean to अपील विरूद्ध हैती चुनाव सत्ताधारी – बीबीसी न्यूज, Aug 22, 2010.
Haiti 's electoral commission said that Mr Jean was ineligible to stand as the Haitian संविधान requires उम्मीदवार to have जिया in the देश लिये पाँच सालो prior to an election.
The 40-year-old सिंगर जीवनदान in the US.
Jean 's efforts at earthquake relief, highly publicized in 2010 throughout हैती और the संयुक्त राज्य, यहूद channeled through his charitable organization, Yéle Haiti.
the दान, जिससे performed a किस्में of charitable works in Haiti between 2005 and 2010, effectively closed in 2012.
In law, a set-off is a statutory रक्षा to the पूरे or to a portion of a plaintiff 's claim.
It had no existence under the English आम विधि, होने निर्मित by 2 जियो. ii c. 22 लिये the relief of insolvent debtors, although set-off was recognized in equity.
Such a defense could be pleaded only in respect of परस्पर debts of a definite अक्षर, और किया नहीं लागू to cases in which damages were claimed, nor to equitable claims or demands.
By the rules of the Supreme Court ( O. XIX. r. 3 ) a प्रतिवादी in an कार्रवाई may नियत बंद or नियत up कोई सही or अर्जी by रास्ता of counterclaim against the claims of a plaintiff, and such set-off or counterclaim has the same effect as a statement of claim in a cross-action.
The legal defense of set-off ( above ) was originally introduced to prevent the unfair situation whereby a person ( `` Party A '' ) who owed धन to another ( `` पार्टी b '' ) could be भेजा to कर्जदार थाना, despite the फैक्ट कि पार्टी b भी owed money to Party A.
The law thus allows both parties to टालना भुगतान जबतक उनके संबंधित दावा have महरूम सुना in court.
Upon निर्णय, दोनो दावा हैं बुझे और replaced by a सिंगल जाल योग owing ( e.g. if पार्टी a owes पार्टी b 100 और पार्टी b owes पार्टी a 105, the two sums are set off and replaced with a single obligation of 5 from Party B to Party A ).
Set-off can also be incorporated by contractual अनुबंध so कि, जहाँ a पार्टी मूलभूत, the mutual amounts owing are automatically set off and extinguished.
In certain jurisdictions ( including the UK ), set-off takes प्लेस automatically upon the insolvency of a company.
This means that, for each party which is both a creditor and debtor of the insolvent company, mutual debts are set-off against each other, and then either the bankrupt 's creditor can claim the balance in the दिवालियापन or the ट्रस्टी in दिवालियापन can पूछो लिये the संतुलन बाकी to be सशुल्क, depending on जिससे पक्ष owed the most.
This has been criticized as an undeclared सुरक्षा ब्याज कि violates the principle of pari passu.
The alternative, where a creditor has to pay all its debts, but receive only a सीमित portion of the leftover moneys कि अन्य unsecured लेनदारों मिलेंगी, मुद्राएँ the danger of 'knock-on ' insolvencies.
The right to set off is विशेषकर महत्वपूर्ण जब रिपोर्टिंग a बैंको 's exposures to regulatory authorities.
The situation where a bank has to report that it has lent a विशाल योग to a borrower ( और is इसलिए उजागर, क्युकी वहीँ is a रिस्क कि the borrower might डिफॉल्ट thereby अग्रणी to the घाटा of the बैंको 's or इसके जमाकर्ताओं ' धन ) is thus replaced ( where the bank has taken security over shares or securities of the borrower ) with an exposure of the money lent minus the value of the security taken.
Jennifer Joanna Aniston ( born फ़रवरी 11, 1969 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, film director, and producer.
Aniston gained worldwide recognition in the 1990s for portraying Rachel Green on the television sitcom मित्रों, a भूमिका जिससे अर्जित उसके an एमी पुरस्कार, a सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार, और a स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड Award.
Aniston has also enjoyed a successful हॉलीवुड फिल्मी करियर.
She gained critical acclaim for her performances in the स्वतंत्र films वो 's the एक ( 1996 ), दफ्तर स्पेस ( 1999 ), the शुभ लड़की ( 2002 ) और मित्रों साथ Money ( 2006 ).
She has had her greatest commercial सफलताओं साथ the films ब्रूस सर्वशक्तिमान ( 2003 ), the break-up ( 2006 ), मार्ले & me ( 2008 ), Just Go with It ( 2011 ) and Horrible Bosses ( 2011 ).
Aniston received a star on the हॉलीवुड चलना of कीर्ति on फ़रवरी 22, 2012.
A white Bengal बाघ at the ह्यूस्टन Aquarium
( वीडियो )
a श्वेत बाघ at tobu Zoo, in Saitama, Japan.
The white tiger is a recessive म्यूटेंट of the बंगाल बाघ, जिससे थी reported in the जंगली इससे समय to time in Assam, Bengal, Bihar and especially from the former State of Rewa.
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from परिधीय घटक इंटरकनेक्ट, भाग of the पीसीआई लोकल बस मानक और प्रायः shortened to just PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer.
The PCI bus supports the कृत्यों मिला on a प्रोसेसर bus, but in a standardized format that is independent of any particular processor.
Devices connected to the bus appear to the प्रोसेसर to be कनेक्ट सीधे to the प्रोसेसर बस, और हैं आबंटित पता in the processor 's address space.
Attached devices can take either the form of an एकीकृत सर्किट fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself, पुकारा a planar यंत्र in the पीसीआई specification, or an expansion card that fits into a slot.
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in ibm pc compatibles, जहाँ it विस्थापित the संयोजन of isa प्लस एक vesa लोकल बस as the bus configuration.
It has subsequently महरूम अपनाया लिये अन्य कंप्यूटर प्रकार.
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express, but, most motherboards हैं स्टिल बना साथ एक or अधिक पीसीआई स्लॉट, जिससे हैं sufficient for many uses.
The PCI specification covers the शारीरिक आकार of the बस ( सहित the आकार और अंतरण of the circuit board edge electrical contacts ), electrical characteristics, bus timing, and protocols.
The specification can be खरीदा इससे the पीसीआई खास Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ).
Typical पीसीआई ताश प्रयुक्त in pcs शामिल : संजाल ताश, ध्वनि ताश, modems, extra ports such as USB or serial, TV tuner cards and disk controllers.
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards, जबतक growing बैंडविड्थ आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface for video cards became AGP, and then PCI Express.
PCI video cards remain available for use साथ बूढ़ा pcs बगैर अगप or पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस स्लॉट.
Many devices previously provided on पीसीआई विस्तार ताश हैं अभी commonly एकीकृत onto motherboards or available in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions.
Caffeine is a bitter, white crystalline xanthine एल्कलॉएड that acts as a stimulant drug.
कैफीन is मिला in varying quantities in the बीज, पत्ते, और फल of कुछ पौधे, जहाँ it अधिनियमों as a प्राकृतिक कीटनाशक कि paralyzes and kills certain insects feeding on the plants, as well as enhancing the reward memory of pollinators.
It is most commonly consumed by humans in infusions निकाली इससे the बीज of the कॉफी संयंत्र और the पत्ते of the tea bush, as well as from various foods and drinks containing products derived from the kola nut.
Other sources शामिल yerba maté, guarana जामुन, guayusa, and the yaupon holly.
In humans, caffeine acts as a central बेचैन प्रणाली उत्तेजक, temporarily warding बंद drowsiness और restoring alertness.
It is the संसार 's सबसे widely खपत psychoactive ड्रग, लकिन नापसंद many other psychoactive substances, it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world.
Beverages containing कैफीन, ऐसे as कॉफी, चाय, नरम पेय, और energy drinks, enjoy great popularity.
In North अमेरिका, 90 % of adults consume caffeine daily.
Part of the reason caffeine is classified by the Food and Drug Administration as GRAS ( generally recognized as सुरक्षित ) is कि विषाक्त doses ( over 10 गामा ) हैं much उच्चतर than typically प्रयुक्त doses ( कम than 500 milligrams ).
Ordinary consumption can have low health risks, even when carried on for years – there may be a modest सुरक्षात्मक प्रभाव विरूद्ध कुछ रोगों, सहित parkinsons बीमारी, and certain types of cancer.
Caffeine can have both positive और ऋणात्मक प्रभाव on चिंता disorders.
Some people experience sleep disruption if वे consume कैफीन, विशेषकर दौरान the संध्या घंटों, लकिन अन्य दिखाएँ छोटी disturbance and the effect of caffeine on sleep is highly variable.
Evidence of a रिस्क to गर्भावस्था is equivocal, लकिन कुछ अधिकारियों have concluded कि दूरदर्शी advice is for pregnant women to limit consumption to the equivalent of two cups of coffee per day or less.
The अमरीकी कॉंग्रेस of obstetricians और स्त्रीरोग ( acog ) concluded in 2010 that caffeine consumption is safe up to 200 mg per day in pregnant women.
Caffeine रै pressor और mild diuretic प्रभाव जब administered to लोगों जो हैं नहीं प्रयुक्त to it, लकिन नियमित उपयोक्ता develop a सहिष्णुता to इस प्रभाव, और अध्ययन have generally failed to support the common notion that ordinary consumption contributes significantly to dehydration.
With heavy use, tolerance develops rapidly to autonomic प्रभाव ऐसे as elevated दिल rate and muscle twitching, but not to the cognitive or arousal effects of caffeine.
The degree to which कैफीन can उपज clinically significant शारीरिक और दिमागी dependence remains a subject of controversy in the medical literature.
a kicktail cruiser
A longboard is a longer रूपांतर of a skateboard.
It is commonly used for cruising, downhill रेसिंग, slalom racing, sliding, and/or transport.
Sources outside of विकिपीडिया दे differing अनुमानs:
The CIA 's World Factbook gives the world population as 7,021,836,029 ( July 2012 est. ) and the distribution of धर्मों as ईसाई 100 % ( of जिससे रोमन कैथोलिक 18.85 %, प्रोटोस्टेंट 8.15 %, परंपरागत 4.96 %, anglican 1.26 % ), मुस्लिम 22.74 %, हिन्दू 13.8 %, Buddhist 6.77 %, Sikh 0.35 %, Jewish 0.22 %, Baha'i 0.11 %, other religions 10.95 %, non-religious 9.66 %, atheists 2.01 %.
( 2010 est. ).
The coast सीमाएँ of कैलिफ़ोर्निया स्पैन इससे हम्बोल्ट County, California south to Santa Barbara County.
The other three coastal California mountain ranges are the अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ, प्रायद्वीपीय सीमाएँ और the Klamath Mountains.
physiographically, वे हैं a खण्ड of the larger प्रशांत किनारा प्रांत, जिससे in फेरे are part of the larger Pacific Mountain System physiographic division.
UNESCO has included the `` California coast सीमाएँ जीवमंडल आरक्षित `` in इसके man और the जीवमंडल कार्यक्रम of World Network of Biosphere Reserves since 1983.
Vehicles in use per देश इससे 2001 to 2007.
It shows the significant विकास in bric.
World map of यात्री गाड़ियाँ प्रति 1000 people
an ऑटोमोबाइल, autocar, मोटर car or car is a wheeled motor vehicle used for transporting passengers, which also carries its own engine or motor.
Most definitions of the पद बताएँ कि ऑटोमोबाइल हैं designed to चलाएं primarily on सड़कें, to have seating लिये एक to आठ लोगों, to typically have four wheels, and to be constructed principally for the transport of people rather than goods.
The term motorcar has also been प्रयुक्त in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of electrified रेल प्रणालियों to denote a car जिससे कृत्यों as a छोटी लोकोमोटिव but also provides space for passengers and baggage.
These लोकोमोटिव गाड़ियाँ यहूद प्रायः प्रयुक्त on suburban रूट by दोनो interurban and intercity railroad systems.
it थी अनुमानित in 2010 कि the क्रमांक of ऑटोमोबाइल था risen to over 1 billion vehicles, up from the 500 million of 1986.
The numbers हैं increasing rapidly, especially in China and India.
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963 ), प्रायः referred to by उसके आद्याक्षर jfk, थी the 35th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य, सेवारत इससे 1961 जबतक his death in 1963.
After military service as commander of the मोटर torpedo नौकाएँ pt-109 और pt-59 दौरान संसार युद्ध ii in the दक्षिण प्रशांत, कैनेडी represented मैसाचुसेट्स ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat.
Thereafter, he परोसा in the u.S. सीनेट from 1953 until 1960.
Kennedy defeated Vice President and Republican candidate Richard Nixon in the 1960 u.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव.
At 43 years of age, he is the youngest to have महरूम निर्वाचित to the दफ्तर, the second-youngest अध्यक्ष ( बाद थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ), and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president.
A Catholic, Kennedy is the तभी non- प्रोटोस्टेंट अध्यक्ष, और is the तभी अध्यक्ष to have won a Pulitzer Prize.
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion, the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट, the भवन of the बर्लिन वॉल, the स्पेस रेस, the african-american Civil Rights Movement, and early stages of the Vietnam War.
Therein, Kennedy increased the number of military advisers, special operation शक्तियां, और helicopters in an प्रयत्न to कोर the स्प्रेड of communism in South East Asia.
The Kennedy प्रशासन अपनाया the नीति of the रणनीतिक Hamlet Program which was implemented by the South Vietnamese government.
It involved निश्चित मजबूर relocation, गाँव internment, और पृथक्करण of ग्रामीण दक्षिण वियतनामी from the northern and southern communist insurgents.
Kennedy was assassinated on नवम्बर 22, 1963 in डलास, Texas.
ली घनघोर ओसवाल्ड थी चार्ज साथ the अपराधों, but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later, before a trial could take place.
The FBI and the Warren Commission officially concluded कि Oswald was the lone assassin.
However, the United States House Select Committee on assassinations ( hsca ) concluded कि those investigations यहूद flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy.
However, ABC News in their investigation, The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond Conspiracy, पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the वारेन आयोग ; having concluded ओसवाल्ड acted alone.
Kennedy 's controversial Department of रक्षा tfx सेनानी bomber कार्यक्रम led to a congressional investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970.
चूंकि the 1960s सूचना concerning Kennedy 's private life has come to light.
Details of कैनेडी 's स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं in जिससे he struggled have become better known, especially since the 1990s.
हालांकि initially रखा रहस्य इससे the सामान्य public, reports of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press.
Kennedy बाँधने अत्यधिक in public opinion ratings of U.S. presidents.
A Siemens MXL fire alarm control panel ( शीर्ष ) और ग्राफिक annunciator ( नीचे ) लिये potomac हॉल, at जेम्स Madison University.
A Vigilant VM-1 fire alarm control ईकाई ( facu ) / autonomous कंट्रोल ईकाई ( acu ) साथ integrated voice evacuation and fire fighter telephone system.
manufactured by एडवर्ड्स, A UTC F & S Company
A Fire Alarm Control Panel ( FACP ), or आग सचेतक कंट्रोल ईकाई ( facu ), is the controlling component of a Fire Alarm System.
The panel receives information from environmental sensors designed to detect changes associated with fire, मॉनीटर उनके operational अखंडता और provides लिये स्वचालित कंट्रोल of उपकरण, और हस्तांतरण of सूचना जरुरी to तैयारी the सुविधा लिये आग based on a predetermined sequence.
The panel may also supply electrical energy to operate कोई संबद्ध सेंसर, कंट्रोल, ट्रांसमीटर, or relay.
There are four basic types of panels : coded panels, conventional panels, addressable panels, और मल्टीप्लेक्स systems.
This is a सूची of the पहला म्यूज़िक वीडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट on MTV 's first day, August 1, 1981.
MTV 's first day on the air was rebroadcast on vh1 क्लासिक in 2006 और अपलोड onto youtube in 2010 ( हालांकि तभी the first four hours were authentic ; the rest were edited VH1 rebroadcasts ).
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA ) ( भी ज्ञात as katunayake अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र और कोलोन अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र ) is एक of the दो अंतरराष्ट्रीय एयरपोर्ट serving the city of Colombo, the other is Ratmalana International Airport.
Mattala Rajapaksa अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र स्तिथ in दक्षिणी नगर of hambantota is the other international airport in Sri Lanka.
भण्डारनायके अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is स्तिथ in Katunayake, 22 miles ( 35 km ) north of Colombo.
It is administered by विमानक्षेत्र और विमानन सेवाएं ( Sri Lanka ) Ltd.
It is the hub of SriLankan Airlines, the नेशनल वाहक of श्री लंका, और mihin लंका, the बजट एयरलाइन of Sri Lanka.
Black swan is a 2010 अमरीकी मनोवैज्ञानिक थ्रिलर और हॉरर फिल्मी निर्देशित by Darren Aronofsky and starring Natalie Portman, Vincent Cassel, and Mila Kunis.
The plot घूमती around a उत्पादन of tchaikovsky 's swan झील बैले by a prestigious New York City company.
The production requires a नर्तकी to खेल the निर्दोष और नाजुक श्वेत swan, लिये जिससे the वचनबद्ध dancer Nina ( Portman ) is a perfect fit, as well as the dark and sensual Black Swan, which are qualities embodied by the new arrival Lily ( Kunis ).
नीना is अभिभूत by a अहसास of immense दबाव जब वो पाता herself स्पर्धा लिये the part, causing her to lose her tenuous grip on reality and descend into a living nightmare.
Aronofsky conceived the premise by connecting his viewings of a production of Swan Lake with an unrealized पटकथा परिचय understudies और the ख़्याल of होने haunted by a दोगुना, समान to the लोकगीत surrounding doppelgängers.
Aronofsky cites fyodor दोस्तोयेव्स्की 's `` the दोगुना `` as another inspiration for the film.
The director also considered ब्लैक swan a साथी टुकड़ा to उसके 2008 फिल्मी the पहलवान, with both films involving demanding performances for different kinds of art.
he और पोर्टमैन पहला discussed the प्रोजेक्ट in 2000, और बाद a ब्रैड अनुलग्नक to सार्वभौमिक studios, ब्लैक Swan was produced in New York City in 2009 by Fox Searchlight Pictures.
Portman and Kunis trained in ballet for several महीने prior to फिल्मांकन, and notable figures from the ballet world helped with film production to shape the ballet presentation.
The film premiered as the opening film for the 67th वेनिस अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी पर्व on सितंबर 1, 2010.
It था a सीमित रिलीज in the संयुक्त राज्य starting दिसम्बर 3, 2010 and opened nationwide on December 17.
Black Swan received critical तारीफ़ upon इसके रिलीज, विशेषकर लिये पोर्टमैन 's प्रदर्शन और aronofsky 's दिशा, और थी a significant बक्सा दफ्तर कामयाबी, grossing $ 329 million worldwide.
The film received five Academy Award nominations and पोर्टमैन जीती the बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री पुरस्कार लिये the फिल्मी, as खूब as अनेक अन्य बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री पुरस्कार in अनेक guilds and festivals, while Aronofsky was nominated for Best Director.
In addition, the film itself प्राप्त a नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन चित्र.
The world’s first ice-calorimeter, used in the winter of 1782-83, by Antoine Lavoisier and pierre-simon लाप्लास, to determine the ऊष्मा शामिल in विभिन्न रासायनिक परिवर्तन ; calculations जिससे यहूद based on Joseph Black ’s prior discovery of latent heat.
These experiments mark the न्यास of thermochemistry.
A calorimeter ( from Latin calor, meaning heat ) is an object used for calorimetry, or the प्रक्रम of measuring the ऊष्मा of रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ or शारीरिक changes as well as heat capacity.
अवकल स्कैनिंग calorimeters, समतापी microcalorimeters, titration calorimeters और त्वरित rate calorimeters are among the most common types.
A simple calorimeter just consists of a थर्मामीटर संलग्न to a मेटल संग्राहक पूरा of जल suspended above a combustion chamber.
To find the enthalpy change per mole of a substance A in a reaction between two substances A और b, the substances हैं added to a ऊष्मामापी और the आरंभिक and final temperatures ( before the reaction started and after it has finished ) are noted.
Multiplying the temperature change by the mass and specific ऊष्मा capacities of the substances देता a मान लिये the उर्जा दिए बंद or अवशोषित दौरान the प्रतिक्रिया.
dividing the उर्जा बदलें by कैसा अनेक moles of A were present gives its enthalpy change of reaction.
This विधि is प्रयुक्त primarily in अकादमिक शिक्षण as it describes the theory of calorimetry.
It does not account for the heat घाटा through the संग्राहक or the ऊष्मा क्षमता of the थर्मामीटर and container itself.
In addition, the object placed inside the calorimeter shows that the objects transferred their heat to the calorimeter और into the द्रव, और the ऊष्मा अवशोषित by the ऊष्मामापी और the द्रव is बराबर to the ऊष्मा दिए बंद by the धातुओं.
A जोड़ी of ग्रीन flip-flops
Flip-flops ( also called zōri, thongs, jandals, or a variety of other names throughout the संसार ) हैं a प्रकार of open-toed चन्दन typically worn in casual situations, such as outside or at the beach.
They consist of a चपटा एकमात्र आयोजित loosely on the पैर by a y-shaped डोरी कि गुजरता between the पहला and second toes and around either side of the foot.
वे may भी be आयोजित to the पैर साथ a सिंगल strap over the front of the foot rather than a thong.
the नाम `` flip-flop '' originated क्युकी of the sound that is made by slapping between the sole of the foot and the floor when walking.
This style of footwear has been worn by the लोगों of अनेक संस्कृतियों throughout the संसार, originating as early as the ancient Egyptians in 4,000 B.C.
The modern flip-flop descends from the Japanese zōri, which became popular after World War II when soldiers returning to the संयुक्त राज्य brought उन्हें back.
They became लोकप्रिय in कैज़ुअल जमावट दौरान the 1960s, 1990s, और 2000s, और कुछ किस्में have even found their way into more formal attire, despite criticism.
The use of flip-flops can result in many pains और चोटों, सहित टखने sprains and broken bones.
Some individuals जो चलना लिये long अवधि report pain in the feet, ankles, and lower legs.
The lack of support provided by flip-flops प्रायः परिणाम in over-pronation चोटों, caused by the पैर slipping inwards further than normal.
इस can सीसे to flat feet and tendonitis.
Other injuries that may परिणाम हैं due to the जूते 's open-toed प्रकृति, such as stubbed toes, cuts, and bruises.
Doctors recommend purchasing pricier sandals with thick-cushioned soles, as well as those that have a डोरी कि is नहीं कैनवास और कि आता वापस लगभग to the टखने.
The स्वामी of hanjin ओसाका, देखी यहाँ transiting the पनामा कनाल in 2008, declared general average following an explosion in the ship 's engine room on.
The law of general average is a legal principle of मेरीटाइम विधि according to जिससे सब पार्टियों in a समुद्र venture proportionally share कोई नुकसान resulting from a voluntary sacrifice of part of the ship or cargo to save the whole in an emergency.
In the exigencies of hazards faced at sea, crew members प्रायः have अनमोल छोटी समय in जिससे to determine precisely जिनकी cargo they are jettisoning.
Thus, to avoid quarrelling that could waste valuable time, there arose the equitable practice whereby all the merchants whose cargo landed सकुशल होता be पुकारा on to योगदान a portion, आधारित upon a share or प्रतिशत, to the व्यापारी or व्यापारियों जिनकी goods था महरूम tossed overboard to avert imminent peril.
While general औसत traces इसके origins in प्राचीन मेरीटाइम विधि, स्टिल it remains part of the admiralty law of most countries.
The first codification of सामान्य औसत थी the यॉर्क antwerp नियम of 1890.
अमरीकी कंपनियाँ accepted it in 1949.
सामान्य औसत requires तीन तत्व जिससे हैं clearly stated by Mr. Justice Grier in Barnard v. Adams:
`` 1st.
A common danger : a danger in which vessel, cargo and crew all participate ; a danger imminent and जाहिर 'inevitable, ' मगर by voluntarily रूष्ट the घाटा of a portion of the पूरे to सहेजें the शेष. ''
`` 2nd. There must be a voluntary jettison, jactus, or ढलाई दूर, of कुछ portion of the संयुक्त चिंता लिये the purpose of बचने इस निकट peril, periculi imminentis evitandi causa, or, in other words, a transfer of the peril from the whole to a particular portion of the whole. ''
`` 3rd.
This attempt to avoid the निकट आम peril जरूर be successful ''.
Example Polish call लिये टीकाकरण विरूद्ध डिप्थीरिया और टेटनस.
A vaccination अनुसूची is a श्रेणी of vaccinations, सहित the समय of सब doses, which may be either recommended or compulsory, depending on the country of residence.
A vaccine is an antigenic preparation used to produce active immunity to a disease, in order to prevent or reduce the effects of संक्रमण by कोई प्राकृतिक or `` जंगली '' pathogen.
Many vaccines require multiple doses for maximum effectiveness, either to produce sufficient आरंभिक प्रतिरक्षा जवाब or to boost response that fades over time.
लिये उदाहरण, टेटनस टीका boosters are often recommended every 10 years.
Vaccine schedules are विकसित by सरकारी एजेंसियों or physicians समूह to achieve अधिकतम प्रभावकारिता using required and recommended vaccines for a locality while minimizing the number of health care system interactions.
Over the past two decades, the recommended vaccination schedule रै grown rapidly और become अधिक जटिल as अनेक नई टीके have महरूम विकसित.
Some vaccines are अनुशंसित तभी in निश्चित क्षेत्रों ( देशों, subnational क्षेत्रों, or at-risk populations ) where a disease is common.
For instance, yellow fever vaccination is on the routine vaccine अनुसूची of फ्रेंच guiana, is अनुशंसित in निश्चित regions of ब्राज़ील लकिन in the संयुक्त राज्य is तभी दिए to travelers heading to countries with a history of the disease.
In developing countries, vaccine recommendations भी लो into खाता the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य परवाह अभिगम, the cost of vaccines and issues with vaccine availability and storage.
Sample vaccinations schedules discussed by the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन दिखाएँ a विकसित country using a schedule which extends over the first five years of a child 's life and uses vaccines which cost over $ 700 including administration costs while a developing country uses a schedule providing vaccines in the first 9 months of life and costing only $ 25.
This अंतर is due to the निम्नतर लागत of स्वास्थ्य परवाह, the निम्नतर लागत of अनेक टीके provided to developing nations, and that more expensive vaccines, often for less common diseases, are not utilized.
In 1900, the smallpox टीका थी the तभी एक administered to children.
By the early 1950s, children routinely received four vaccines, for सुरक्षा विरूद्ध ( डिप्थीरिया, pertussis, टेटनस, पोलियो, और smallpox ), और as अनेक as पाँच shots by two years of age.
Since the mid-1980s, many टीके have महरूम added to the schedule.
, the US Centers for Disease कंट्रोल और रोकथाम ( सीडीसी ) अभी अनुशंसा टीकाकरण against at least fourteen diseases.
By two years of age, U.S. children receive as many as 24 vaccine injections, और might प्राप्त up to पाँच गोलियाँ during one visit to the doctor.
The use of combination vaccine products means that,, the United Kingdom 's immunization program consists of 10 injections by the आयु of दो, बल्कि than 25 if टीकाकरण लिये प्रत्येक बीमारी थी दिए as a separate injection.
Two revellers नृत्य in the streets.
The रूप of नाचना is पुकारा `` wining '' ( winding ) pronounced wine-ing
A Music Truck entertains the भीड on the गलियों.
Trucks are an integral part of the गली परेड, featuring सजीव प्रदर्शन or deejays
The Trinidad and टोबैगो कार्निवल is an सालाना इवेंट आयोजित on the सोमवार और मंगलवार पहले राख बुधवार, and is well known for participant 's colorful costumes and exuberant celebrations.
Carnival in Trinidad and टोबैगो is the सबसे significant इवेंट on the आइलैंड्स ' सांस्कृतिक और पर्यटन पंचांग, साथ numerous cultural events running in the lead up to the street parade on Carnival Monday and Tuesday.
It is said that if the आइलैंडर्स हैं नहीं celebrating it, तब they are preparing for it, while reminiscing about the past year 's festival.
The heart of the musical celebration has been calypso ; recently सोका रै replaced कैलिप्सो as the सबसे मनाये प्रकार of म्यूज़िक.
Costumes, stickfighting और limbo प्रतियोगिताओं हैं also important components of the festival.
Carnival as it is celebrated in Trinidad and टोबैगो is भी मनाये in शहरों worldwide.
These including Toronto 's caribana, मियामी 's मियामी कार्निवल, ह्यूस्टन carifest, लंदन 's नॉटिंग Hill Carnival as well as New York City 's Labor Day Carnival to name a few.
कार्निवल थी निर्मित जब वेस्ट अफ़्रीकी स्लेव mimicked their French owners who where known for their lavish costumes balls.
Forbidden to partake in these festivities and confined to their quarters, स्लेव संयुक्त तत्व इससे उनके अपना संस्कृतियों to their master 's fete.
Hence the creation of characters such as Jab Jab or Jab molassie ( शैतानों ), मध्यरात्रि लुटेरों, imps, lagahroo, soucouyant, la diablesse and Demons.
With the abolition of slavery in 1838, freed Africans took their version of Carnival to the streets through अभिव्यक्ति of ड्रम, riddim भाग जैसे tamboo बाँसुरी और as प्रत्येक नई अप्रवासी जनसांख्यिकी entered Trinidad, Carnival evolved into what we know today.
The city of Chicago, Illinois आयोजित a nonpartisan mayoral चुनाव on मंगलवार, फ़रवरी 22, 2011.
Incumbent Mayor Richard M. Daley, a member of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी जो था महरूम in दफ्तर चूंकि 1989, did not seek a seventh term as mayor.
Candidates needed to collect 12,500 petition signatures by नवम्बर 22, 2010 to qualify लिये a प्लेस on the ballot.
April 5, 2011 was scheduled to be a runoff election तिथि if no प्रत्याशी प्राप्त an निरपेक्ष बहुमत.
Rahm Emanuel won the race लिये महापौर साथ अधिक than 55 % of the vote.
He was उदघाटन on may 16, 2011.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' is a song by अमरीकी इंडी पॉप बैंड फोस्टर the लोगों.
It was released as the group 's debut सिंगल in सितंबर 2010, और the following साल थी शामिल on उनके ep फोस्टर the People and their debut album Torches.
`` उत्तेजित up kicks '' became the समूह 's भेदन hit और was one of the most popular songs of 2011.
The song was written और अंकित by frontman चिह्नित फोस्टर जबकि he was working as a commercial jingle writer.
Contrasting with the upbeat musical composition, the lyrics describe the homicidal विचार of a troubled युवावस्था.
The track received considerable attention after it was posted ऑनलाइन in 2010 as a फ़्री डाउनलोड, और it helped the समूह गार्नर a multi-album record deal with Columbia Records imprint Startime International.
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' proved to be a स्लीपर hit ; in 2011, बाद receiving significant airplay on modern rock stations, the song crossed-over onto contemporary hit radio stations.
The song खर्च आठ लगातार सप्ताह at क्रमांक तीन on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट in the संयुक्त राज्य, बनाना it the first Billboard Alternative Songs number-one single to crack the U.S. top 5 since Kings of Leon 's `` Use Somebody `` in 2009.
The song was widely praised by critics, और it रै महरूम licensed लिये उपयोग in a wide range of popular media since its release.
`` Pumped up kicks '' प्राप्त a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन Pop Duo/Group Performance.
The State Fair of West Virginia is an सालाना राज्य मेला लिये वेस्ट वर्जिनिया.
It is held annually in mid-august on the राज्य fairgrounds in fairlea, निकट lewisburg, वेस्ट वर्जिनिया in the southeastern part of the state.
The State Fairgrounds consists of a विशाल खोलें फ़ील्ड लिये carnivals और प्रदर्शनियों, a घोड़ा track, grandstands, and several exhibition buildings.
फ़्री पार्किंग is provided सटा to the fairgrounds और, जबतक 2006, फ़्री कैंप was also available in a large field with running-water toilets and showers, but no hookups.
Campers are now चार्ज a छोटी शुल्क.
The श्वेत हाउस, the अध्यक्ष 's आधिकारिक निवास and center of the administration
Under the United States Constitution, the President of the United राज्य is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी of the United States.
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a पूरे, the प्रेसिडेंसी is the उच्चतम राजनैतिक दफ्तर in the संयुक्त राज्य by influence and recognition.
the अध्यक्ष is भी the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces.
The president is indirectly निर्वाचित to a four-year पद by an चुनावी कॉलेज ( or by the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि चाहिए the Electoral College fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ).
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951, no व्यक्ति may be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष अधिक than twice, और no एक जो रै परोसा अधिक than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once.
Upon the death, resignation, or removal from दफ्तर of an लाज़िम अध्यक्ष, the वाइस President assumes the office.
The President must be at least 35 सालो of आयु और a `` प्राकृतिक born '' नागरिक of the United States.
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the अनुसमर्थन of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान, जिससे took effect on March 4, 1789.
For American leaders पहले इस अनुसमर्थन, देखिए अध्यक्ष of the Continental Congress.
The list does not include any Acting Presidents under the twenty-fifth amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान.
There have been 43 people sworn into office, और 44 presidencies, as ग्रोवर क्लीवलैंड परोसा दो non-consecutive शर्तें और is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president.
Of the individuals elected as president, four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison, Zachary Taylor, Warren G. Harding, and Franklin D. Roosevelt ), four were assassinated ( अब्राहम lincoln, जेम्स A. गारफ़ील्ड, विलियम mckinley, और जॉन F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ).
George Washington, the first president, was उदघाटन in 1789 बाद a सर्वसम्मत vote of the Electoral College.
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841, and Franklin D. रूज़वेल्ट खर्च the longest साथ over बारह सालो, लकिन died shortly into his fourth term in 1945.
He is the only president to serve more than two terms, and a constitutional amendment, affecting राष्ट्रपतियों बाद हैरी ट्रूमैन, थी passed to सीमा the क्रमांक of टाइम्स an व्यक्तिगत can be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष.
Andrew Jackson, the seventh president, was the first to be निर्वाचित by मेन of सब वर्ग in 1828 बाद सबसे कानून barring non-land-owners इससे voting were repealed.
Warren Harding was the first elected बाद महिलाओं gained मतदान अधिकारों in 1920.
इतिहास रिकॉर्ड चार राष्ट्रपतियों – जॉन q एडम्स, रदरफोर्ड B. हेज़, बेंजामिन हैरिसन and George W. Bush – who lost the popular vote but assumed office.
John F. कैनेडी रै महरूम the तभी अध्यक्ष of रोमन कैथोलिक आस्था, और the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष, Barack Obama, is the first president of African descent.
`` लोम्बार्डी ट्रॉफी '' redirects here.
For the award awarded annually to the बेहतरीन कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल lineman or linebacker, see Lombardi Award.
The विंस लोम्बार्डी ट्रॉफी is the ट्रॉफी awarded प्रत्येक साल to the जीतना टोली of the National Football League 's championship game, the Super Bowl.
The trophy is नामित in सम्मान of legendary एनएफएल coach Vince Lombardi.
This is a list of tables of the verified oldest people in the world in ordinal रैंक, ऐसे as oldest व्यक्ति or oldest man.
In these tables, a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim has been validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह कि specifically सौदे in आयु शोध, such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records.
The longest unambiguously documented इंसान जीवनकाल is कि of jeanne calment of फ़्रांस ( 1875–1997 ), जो died at age 122 years, 164 days.
She met Vincent वैन gogh जब वो थी 12 or 13.
This led to न्यूज मीडिया ध्यान in 1985, after Calment turned 110.
Subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's age, परे कोई उचित सवाल, in the रिकॉर्ड of her native city, Arles, France.
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for any other supercentenarian ; उसके मामला serves as an archetype in the methodology लिये verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people.
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of jiroemon किमुरा, जो फिलहाल जीवनदान in जापानी and is age as of.
Since the death of 115-year old Dina manfredini of the संयुक्त राज्य, on 17 दिसम्बर 2012, किमुरा, born 19 अप्रैल 1897, is the oldest living person in the world whose age can be documented.
He has also been the oldest living man since the मौत of 114-year बूढ़ा वाल्टर breuning on 14 अप्रैल 2011.
चूंकि the मौत of 115-year बूढ़ा koto okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013, the oldest living woman has been -year-old Misao Okawa, also from Japan, born on 5 March 1898.
The People 's Court is an American arbitration-based reality court दिखाएँ, फिलहाल presided over by रिटायर्ड फ्लोरिडा राज्य सर्किट अदालत न्यायधीश मर्लिन milian, in which small claims disputes are handled.
The People 's अदालत is the पहला अदालत दिखाएँ to उपयोग बाइंडिंग मध्यस्थता, introducing the format into the genre in 1981.
The system has महरूम duplicated by सबसे of the दिखाएँ 's successors in the judicial genre.
Moreover, The People 's Court is the first लोकप्रिय, long-running वास्तविकता in the न्यायिक विधा.
It was preceded only by a few short-lived realities in the विधा ; ये short-lived पूर्ववर्तियों यहूद तभी loosely सम्बन्धित to न्यायिक कार्यवाही, मगर लिये एक : पैरोल ( 1959 ) took footage from real-life courtrooms holding legal proceedings.
Prior to The लोगों 's अदालत, the विशाल बहुमत of tv courtroom shows प्रयुक्त अभिनेताओं, and recreated or fictional cases ( as did radio before that ).
Among examples of these प्रकार of अदालत shows शामिल प्रसिद्ध जूरी Trials and Your Witness.
the लोगों 's अदालत has had two contrasting lives.
The show 's first जीवन थी presided over solely by पूर्व लॉस Angeles County Superior Court Judge Joseph Wapner.
His tenure lasted इससे the दिखाएँ 's डेब्यू on सितंबर 14, 1981, until May 21, 1993, when the show was cancelled due to low ratings.
This left the दिखाएँ साथ a कुल of 2,484 1⁄2-hour episodes and 12 seasons.
The show थी taped in लॉस एंजिल्स during its first life.
After being रद्द, reruns aired जबतक September 9, 1994.
On September 8, 1997, after being आउट of उत्पादन लिये चार सालो, the लोगों 's अदालत थी revived लिये a दूसरी life in first-run syndication as a 60-minute program.
Former lawyer और महापौर of नई यॉर्क ed koch थी चुनी as arbiter, जिससे he कायम लिये 2 सीज़न इससे the 1997–98 season through the 1998–99 season ( the present life 's 2nd season and overall show 's 14th ).
By the 1999–00 ऋतु, husband of जूडिथ sheindlin ( जो presides over न्यायधीश जुडी ) and former New York State Supreme Court Judge Jerry Sheindlin succeeded Koch.
Sheindlin lasted एक और a हाफ सीज़न as he थी replaced towards the समाप्त of the 2000–01 season ( present life 's 4th season and overall show 's 17th ).
शुरूआत in वसन्त 2001, फ्लोरिडा न्यायधीश मर्लिन milian took over The People 's Court and has presided over the show ever since.
Once Milian completes the 2012–13 season, she will have परोसा as longest arbiter over the श्रेणी साथ 12 और a हाफ seasons.
As of the उपस्थित, however, उसके सालो on the कार्यक्रम tie Wapner at 12 seasons.
in the 2009-10 टेलीविज़न ऋतु, the लोगों 's न्यायालयों 2nd/present life outlasted its first when it reached 13 seasons.
जबकि the दिखाएँ taped in नई York City for the first 15 seasons of its second life, it now tapes in Stamford, Connecticut as of the 2012-13 season.
On September 3, 2012, The People 's Court 's 2nd/present life entered its 16th ऋतु ( 28th overall ऋतु ).
With 28 total seasons, The People 's अदालत बाँधने as the 2nd longest-running courtroom कार्यक्रम पीछे the जारी तलाक Court at 33 seasons ( from its 3 combined lives ).
Utah ( or ) ( Arapaho : wo'tééneihí ' ) is a राज्य in the पश्चिमी संयुक्त States.
It became the 45th state admitted to the संघ on जनवरी 4, 1896.
यूटा is the 13th-largest, the 34th-most populous, and the 10th-least-densely populated of the 50 United States.
Approximately 80 % of Utah 's 2,817,222 people live along the Wasatch Front, centering on Salt Lake City, leaving vast expanses of the राज्य nearly uninhabited और बनाना the जनसांख्यिकी the छठे सबसे urbanized in the U.S. Utah is bordered by Colorado on the east, Wyoming on the northeast, Idaho on the north, Arizona on the south, and Nevada on the west.
It also touches a कोने of नई मैक्सिको on the southeast.
Utah is the most religiously समरूप राज्य in the संघ.
Approximately 63 % of Utahns are reported to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ of latter-day संतो or lds ( mormons ), जिससे greatly प्रभाव यूटा संस्कृति और रोज़ life.
The world headquarters of the गिरिजाघर of यीशु मसीह of latter-day संतो ( lds गिरिजाघर ) is located in Utah 's state capital.
The state is a center of transportation, शिक्षा, सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी और शोध, सरकारी सेवाएं, खनन, और a प्रमुख tourist destination for outdoor recreation.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau 's population estimates, Utah is the fifth fastest-growing राज्य in the संयुक्त राज्य as of 2012.
St. George, was the fastest–growing महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त राज्य from 2000 to 2005.
A 2012 Gallup national survey found Utah overall to be the `` best राज्य to सजीव in '' आधारित on 13 forward-looking माप सहित विभिन्न आर्थिक, lifestyle, and health-related outlook metrics.
coldwater is a छोटी कस्बा in टेट काउंटी, Mississippi.
It is in the मेम्फिस महानगर Area.
The population थी 1,674 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी.
The hard palate is a thin आड़ा बोनी थाली of the कपाल, स्तिथ in the roof of the mouth.
it spans the मेहराब formed by the upper teeth.
It is formed by the palatine process of the maxilla और आड़ा थाली of palatine bone.
It forms a partition between the nasal passages और the mouth.
Also on the anterior portion of the roof of the hard palate is the Rugae which are the irregular ridges in the mucous membrane कि सहायता सुकर the गति of खाना backwards towards the pharynx.
This partition is continued deeper into the मुँह by a मांसल एक्सटेंशन पुकारा the soft palate.
Complete set of scrolls, constituting the entire Tanakh.
The Tanakh (, or ; भी tenakh, tenak, tanach ) is a name used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible.
The tanakh is भी ज्ञात as the Masoretic Text or the Miqra.
The name is an acronym formed from the आरंभिक यहूदी अक्षर of the masoretic टेक्स्ट 's तीन परंपरागत subdivisions : the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '', also known as the Five Books of Moses ), Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh.
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ), अर्थ `` कि जिससे is पढ़ा '', is an वैकल्पिक Hebrew term for the Tanakh.
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral परंपरा passed on by प्रत्येक पीढी, पुकारा the मौखिक Torah.
Sobriety नाका in जर्मनी
Driving under the influence ( DUI ), driving while intoxicated ( dwi ), शराबी ड्राइविंग, नशे ड्राइविंग, पेय ड्राइविंग, ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the influence, पीने और ड्राइविंग, or impaired ड्राइविंग is the अपराधों of ड्राइविंग a मोटर गाडी साथ रक्त levels of alcohol in excess of a legal limit ( `` Blood Alcohol Content '', or `` BAC '' ).
Similar regulations कवर ड्राइविंग or ऑपरेटिंग निश्चित प्रकार of मशीनरी जबकि प्रभावित by drinking alcohol or taking other drugs, including, but not limited to prescription drugs.
This is a दण्ड ठोकर in most nations.
Convictions do not necessarily involve वास्तविक ड्राइविंग of the गाडी.
In most jurisdictions a measurement such as a blood alcohol सामग्री ( bac ) in excess of a विशिष्ट दहलीज स्तर, ऐसे as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the ठोकर, साथ no need to prove पुतलियों or being under the influence of alcohol.
In कुछ jurisdictions, वहीँ is an क्रोधित श्रेणी of the offense at a higher level e.g. 0.12 %.
In most countries, anyone who is convicted of injuring or killing someone while under the influence of दारू or दवाएँ can be heavily fined, as in फ़्रांस, in जोड to होने given a lengthy prison sentence.
कुछ कार्य have उनके अपना नियम और bac हद, लिये उदाहरण वाणिज्यिक पायलट, और the Federal Railroad Administration in the United States has a 0.04 % limit for train crew.
Some jurisdictions have multiple levels of BAC ; for example, the state of कैलिफ़ोर्निया रै a 0.08 % bac सीमा, जिससे is lowered to 0.04 % if the ऑपरेटर holds a commercial driver 's license.
The कैलिफ़ोर्निया bac सीमा is 0.01 % लिये those younger than 21 सालो of आयु और those on probation for a previous DUI conviction.
Some large corporations have their own rules ; Union Pacific Railroad has their own BAC limit of 0.02 % that, if violated दौरान a यादृच्छिक परीक्षण or a for-cause परीक्षण — लिये उदाहरण, बाद a ट्रैफ़िक दुर्घटना — can result in termination of employment with no chance of future re-hire.
Many states in the U.S. and provinces in Canada have adopted सच्चाई in sentencing कानून कि enforce सख्त दिशानिर्देश on sentencing, differing इससे पिछला अभ्यास जहाँ prison time was reduced or suspended after sentencing had been issued.
Some jurisdictions have न्यायिक दिशानिर्देश requiring a mandatory minimum sentence.
Penalties for DUI charges range from expensive fees to forfetiruree of अपना अनुज्ञा प्लेटों और in कुछ गंभीर हालातों, your vehicle.
A drunk driving सिम्युलेटर in montréal, Canada
The specific criminal offense may be called, depending on the jurisdiction, driving under the influence [ of alcohol or other drugs ] ( DUI ), driving under intense influence ( DUII ), driving while intoxicated ( DWI ), operating under the influence ( OUI ) ऑपरेटिंग जबकि intoxicated ( owi ), ऑपरेटिंग a मोटर गाडी जबकि intoxicated ( omvi ), ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the संयुक्त influence of दारू and/or अन्य दवाएँ, ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence प्रति se or नशे in charge [ of a vehicle ].
Many such laws apply also to motorcycling, boating, piloting aircraft, use of motile farm equipment such as tractors और combines, सवारी घोड़े or ड्राइविंग a horse-drawn गाडी, or bicycling, possibly with different BAC level than driving.
In some jurisdictions वहीँ हैं पृथक आरोप depending on the vehicle used, such as BWI ( bicycling while intoxicated ), which may carry a lighter sentence.
In the United States, local law enforcement agencies made 1,467,300 arrests nationwide for driving अंतर्गत the influence of दारू in 1996, compared to 1.9 लाख ऐसे रखवाले दौरान the peak year in 1983.
in 1997 an अनुमानित 513,200 dwi अपराधियों यहूद in थाना or jail, down from 593,000 in 1990 and up from 270,100 in 1986.
Officers from US कस्टम और किनारा सुरक्षा बोर्डिंग a ship
Law enforcement in the United States is one of तीन प्रमुख components of the दण्ड इंसाफ प्रणाली of the United States, along with courts and corrections.
Although there exists an inherent interrelatedness between the अलग समूह कि मेक up the दण्ड इंसाफ प्रणाली आधारित on उनके crime deterrence purpose, each component operates independently from one another.
However, the judiciary is vested with the power to make legal determinations regarding the conduct of the अन्य दो components.
Apart from maintaining order and service कृत्यों, the purpose of policing is the छानबीन of suspected दण्ड कार्यकलाप और the referral of the results of investigations and of suspected criminals to the courts.
Law enforcement, to varying degrees at different levels of government and in different agencies, is also commonly charged with the responsibilities of deterring criminal activity and of preventing the successful commission of crimes in progress ; the सेवा और प्रवर्तन of वारंट, writs और अन्य आदेश of the न्यायालयों.
Law enforcement agencies are also involved in providing पहला जवाब to emergencies और अन्य खतरे to पब्लिक सुरक्षा ; the सुरक्षा of निश्चित पब्लिक सुविधाएं और अवसंरचना ; the maintenance of public order ; the protection of public officials ; and the operation of some correctional facilities ( usually at the local level ).
Elmer Figueroa Arce ( born June 28, 1968 ), बेहतरीन ज्ञात अंतर्गत the स्टेज नाम chayanne, is a प्यूर्टो rican लैटिन पॉप singer and actor.
As a solo artist, Chayanne has released 21 सोलो एल्बम और बेची over 15 लाख एल्बम worldwide.
`` संसार युद्ध हल्क '' is a कॉमिक किताब क्रॉसओवर कथानक that ran through a self titled limited series and various other titles published by Marvel Comics in 2007, featuring the Hulk.
the श्रेणी consists of पाँच प्रमुख मुद्दे titled संसार युद्ध हल्क, साथ ग्रेग पाक as लेखक और जॉन romita, Jr. as penciller, and three other limited series : World War Hulk : Front Line, World War Hulk : Gamma Corps, and World War Hulk : X-Men.
It also ran through several अन्य आश्चर्य कॉमिक्स श्रेणी.
The plot is the culmination of a series of events that began with the Hulk being tricked into स्पेस by the illuminati और a जीवन मॉडल decoy of उपनाम फ़्यूरी, the हल्क 's subsequent निर्वासन देखी in Planet Hulk and his imminent return to Earth to seek revenge on the Illuminati.
Marion Mitchell Morrison ( born Marion Robert Morrison ; May 26, 1907 – जून 11, 1979 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम जॉन वेन, थी an American film actor, director and producer.
An Academy Award -winner, Wayne was among the top box office draws for three decades, और थी नामित the all-time शीर्ष money-making स्टार.
An enduring American icon, he epitomized rugged मर्दानगी और is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके demeanor, सहित उसके distinctive calm voice, walk, and height.
Wayne was born in Winterset, Iowa but his family relocated to the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल जब he थी चार years old.
He found work at local film studios when he खोया उसके फ़ुटबॉल स्कॉलरशिप to यूएससी as a परिणाम of a bodysurfing accident.
Initially working लिये the फॉक्स फिल्मी निगम, he mostly appeared in small bit parts.
His first leading role came in the widescreen epic the बिग ट्रेल ( 1930 ), जिससे led to अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ in numerous films throughout the 1930s, many of them in the western genre.
His करियर रोज़ to further हाइट्स in 1939, साथ जॉन Ford 's Stagecoach making him an instant superstar.
Wayne would go on to star in 142 तस्वीरें, primarily typecast in पश्चिमी films.
Among his best known later films are The Quiet Man ( 1952 ), which follows him as an Irish-American boxer and his love affair with a fiery spinster played by Maureen O'Hara ; the searchers ( 1956 ), in जिससे he plays a सिविल युद्ध दिग्गज जो seeks आउट उसके abducted भांजी ; रिओ ब्रावो ( 1959 ), playing a शेरिफ साथ डीन मार्टिन ; सच्चा grit ( 1969 ), playing a humorous u.s. मार्शल जो सेट out to avenge a man 's death in the role that won Wayne an Academy Award ; and The Shootist ( 1976 ), his final screen performance in which he plays an aging gunslinger battling cancer.
Wayne moved to Orange County, California in the 1960s, and was a prominent रिपब्लिकन in हॉलीवुड, supporting anti-communist positions.
He died of पेट कर्कट in 1979.
In June 1999, the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान नामित वेन 13th among the Greatest Male Screen Legends of All Time.
Galileo Galilei ( ; 15 February 1564 – 8 January 1642 ), was an Italian physicist, गणितज्ञ, astronomer, और पारस जो निभाई a प्रमुख भूमिका in the वैज्ञानिक Revolution.
His उपलब्धियाँ शामिल सुधार to the दूरदर्शी और consequent astronomical observations and support for Copernicanism.
Galileo has been called the `` father of modern observational खगोलशास्त्र ``, the `` पिता of आधुनिक भौतिकी ``, the `` father of science '', and `` the Father of Modern Science ''.
His योगदान to observational खगोलशास्त्र शामिल the telescopic पुष्टि of the phases of शुक्र, the डिस्कवरी of the four largest satellites of Jupiter ( named the Galilean moons in his honour ), and the observation and analysis of sunspots.
Galileo also worked in applied science and technology, inventing an improved सैन्य कम्पास and other instruments.
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism was विवादास्पद भीतर उसके आजीवन, जब सबसे subscribed to either geocentrism or the Tychonic system.
He met with opposition from astronomers, who doubted heliocentrism due to the अनुपस्थिति of an observed तारकीय लंबन.
The matter was investigated by the Roman Inquisition in 1615, and they concluded कि it could be समर्थित as तभी a सम्भावना, नहीं an स्थापित fact.
Galileo later defended his views in Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems, which appeared to attack Pope Urban viii और यूँ alienated उसे और the jesuits, जो था दोनो समर्थित गैलीलियो up until this point.
He was tried by the Inquisition, found `` vehemently suspect of heresy '', मजबूर to recant, and spent the rest of his life under house arrest.
It was while Galileo was under house arrest that he लिखा एक of उसके finest works, दो नई sciences, in जिससे he summarised the work he had done some forty years earlier, on the two sciences now called kinematics and strength of materials.
55 '' lg oled tv showcased at CES 2012
प्रोटोटाइप oled lighting फलक developed by Lumiotec
demonstration of a लचीली OLED device
An OLED ( organic light-emitting डायोड ) is a light-emitting डायोड ( led ) in जिससे the emissive electroluminescent layer is a film of organic compound which emits light in response to an electric current.
This layer of organic सेमीकंडक्टर is situated between दो electrodes.
Generally, at least one of these electrodes is पारदर्शी.
OLEDs are used to create digital displays in devices such as television screens, कंप्यूटर मॉनीटर, पोर्टेबल प्रणालियों ऐसे as mobile phones, handheld games consoles and PDAs.
A major area of research is the विकास of श्वेत oled डिवाइस लिये उपयोग in solid-state lighting applications.
There are two main परिवारों of oleds : those आधारित on small molecules and those employing polymers.
Adding mobile ions to an oled creates a light-emitting electrochemical कोशिका or लैक, which has a slightly different mode of operation.
OLED displays can उपयोग either passive-matrix ( pmoled ) or active-matrix addressing schemes.
Active-matrix OLEDs ( amoled ) आवश्यकता a thin-film ट्रांजिस्टर backplane to स्विच प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत pixel on or off, but allow for higher resolution and larger display sizes.
an oled प्रदर्शक works without a backlight.
यूँ, it can प्रदर्शक गहन ब्लैक स्तर और can be thinner और हल्का than a liquid crystal display ( LCD ).
In low ambient light शर्तें ऐसे as a अंधेरा रूम an oled स्क्रीन can achieve a उच्चतर कंट्रास्ट ratio than an LCD, whether the LCD uses cold cathode fluorescent lamps or LED backlight.
A carton and a glass of eggnog from Montreal, Canada, showing its French facade ( English रिवर्स ) और the फ्रेंच पद लेत de poule ( वस्तुतः, `` मुर्गी 's milk '' )
Eggnog, or egg nog, is a sweetened dairy -based पेय traditionally बना साथ मिल्क and/or मलाई, शुगर, और whipped eggs ( which gives it a frothy texture ).
Brandy, rum, whisky, bourbon, वोदका, or a संयोजन of liquors are often added.
The finished serving is often garnished with a sprinkling of मैदान दालचीनी or nutmeg.
it थी भी ज्ञात as the egg milk punch.
Eggnog is a popular पेय throughout the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा, और is usually associated with Christmas.
Eggnog may be added as a flavoring to खाना or पेय ऐसे as कॉफी और चाय.
eggnog as a कस्टर्ड can भी be used as an ice cream base.
A pasty (, ), ( sometimes known in Britain as a Cornish pasty, and in the United States as a pastie or अंग्रेजों pasty ) is a baked पेस्ट्री, a परंपरागत किस्में of जिससे is particularly associated with Cornwall, the westernmost county in England.
It is made by placing uncooked filling typically of meat और सब्जियां, बगैर मांस in शाकाहारी संस्करण, on a चपटा पेस्ट्री वृत्त और फोल्डिंग it to wrap the filling, crimping the edge to form a seal.
After baking, the परिणाम is a उठाया semicircular comestible.
The traditional Cornish pasty, which has Protected Geographical Indication ( PGI ) status in Europe, is filled with beef, sliced or diced आलू, swede ( भी ज्ञात as a पीला शलजम or rutabaga – referred to in कॉर्नवॉल as शलजम ) और प्याज, seasoned साथ नमक और pepper, and is baked.
Today, the pasty is the food most संबद्ध साथ कॉर्नवॉल, it is regarded as the नेशनल डिश, and it accounts for 6 % of the Cornish food economy.
Pasties with many different fillings are बना ; कुछ दुकानें specialise in selling सब sorts of pasties.
The origins of the pasty are unclear, though there are many references to उन्हें throughout ऐतिहासिक दस्तावेज़ और fiction.
The pasty is अभी लोकप्रिय world-wide due to the स्प्रेड of cornish खनिक, और विसंगतियाँ can be found in Australia, the United States, Mexico and elsewhere.
The ( ortho- ) sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) is one of three प्रमुख भाग of the autonomic बेचैन प्रणाली : the अन्य होने the enteric और parasympathetic systems.
Its general action is to mobilize the देह 's बेचैन प्रणाली fight-or-flight response.
It is, however, constantly क्रियाशील at a basic level to maintain homeostasis.
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile मेमोरी कार्ड स्वरूप लिये उपयोग in पोर्टेबल डिवाइस, ऐसे as मोबाईल फोन, digital cameras, GPS navigation devices, and tablet computers.
the सुरक्षित डिजिटल standard is maintained by the SD Card Association ( SDA ).
SD technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands across dozens of उत्पाद श्रेणी और अधिक than 8,000 मॉडल.
The Secure Digital format includes चार कार्ड परिवारों उपलब्धियाँ in तीन अलग form factors.
The चार परिवारों हैं the असली standard-capacity ( sdsc ), the high-capacity ( SDHC ), the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ), and the SDIO, which combines input/output functions with data storage.
the तीन रूप कारकों हैं the असली आकार, the `` मिनी '' आकार, और the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ).
There are many combinations of रूप कारकों और यंत्र families.
Electrically passive adapters allow the उपयोग of a छोटी card in a host device built to hold a larger card.
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide पिछड़ा संगतता और accept पुरानी sd ताश, लकिन इस आलेख explains अनेक factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may प्रस्ताव वृहद क्षमता than the मेजबान यंत्र can handle.
A newer card may use a file system the मेजबान यंत्र can नहीं navigate.
Use of an SDIO card requires the host यंत्र be designed लिये the input/output कृत्यों the card provides.
The organization of the card was changed starting साथ the sdhc परिवार.
Some vendors produced SDSC cards above 1 GB पहले the sda था मानकीकृत a विधि of doing so.
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce अनुपालन साथ इसके विशेषताएँ and assure users of compatibility.
the following is a List of critics of the New Deal.
Daniel Lawrence व्हिटनी ( born फ़रवरी 17, 1963 ) बेहतरीन ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम और अक्षर लैरी the केबल guy, is an अमरीकी stand-up हास्य, actor, country music artist, voice actor, and former radio personality.
He was one of the members of the Blue Collar Comedy Tour, a comedy troupe which शामिल विधेयक engvall, रॉन श्वेत, और जेफ़ foxworthy ( साथ जिसको he has starred on Blue Collar TV ).
Whitney has released सात कॉमेडी एल्बम, of जिससे तीन have महरूम certified सुनहरा by the RIAA for shipments of 500,000 copies.
In addition, he has starred in तीन ब्लू कॉलर कॉमेडी tour-related फिल्मों, as खूब as in the films लैरी the केबल guy : स्वास्थ्य इंस्पेक्टर, डेल्टा तमाशा, और witless Protection, as well as voicing Mater in the Cars franchise.
Whitney 's catchphrase : `` git-r-done ! '' is भी the title of his book.
On January 26, 2010, the TV channel History announced that it was ordering a series starring Whitney called Only in America with Larry the Cable guy, in जिससे he होता explore the देश और immerse खुद in अलग lifestyles, कार्य, और शौक.
The first episode of the श्रेणी aired on फ़रवरी 8, 2011.
Vitamin d is a समूह of fat-soluble secosteroids जिम्मेदार for intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate.
In humans, the most महत्वपूर्ण सम्बन्धित यौगिकों of विटामिन d हैं विटामिन D2 and vitamin D3.
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) और ergocalciferol ( विटामिन d2 ) हैं अद्वितीय as वे constitute कया we जान as विटामिन d और can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements.
The body can also synthesize vitamin D ( from cholesterol ) when sun एक्सपोज़र is पर्याप्त ( hence इसके उपनाम, the `` sunshine vitamin '' ).
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin, it is not actually an अनिवार्य dietary विटामिन in the सख्त भाव, as it can be synthesized in पर्याप्त amounts by सबसे स्तनधारियों उजागर to sunlight.
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize विटामिन d efficiently और जरूर प्राप्त it in उनके diet. )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is तभी scientifically पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from their diet.
However, as साथ अन्य यौगिकों commonly पुकारा विटामिन, विटामिन d थी खोजा in an प्रयत्न to find the dietary substance that was lacking in a disease, namely, rickets, the childhood form of osteomalacia.
Additionally, like other यौगिकों पुकारा विटामिन, in the विकसित संसार विटामिन d is added to staple foods, such as milk, to avoid disease due to deficiency.
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous संश्लेषण इससे एक्सपोज़र to धूप as खूब as सेवन from the diet, and it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations.
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity लकिन, क्युकी of अनिश्चितता परिचय the कर्कट रिस्क इससे धूप, no सुझाव हैं जारी by the संस्थान of आयुर्विज्ञान, यूएसए, लिये the राशि of सूर्य एक्सपोज़र जरूरी to meet vitamin D requirements.
Accordingly, the Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin D assume that no संश्लेषण occurs और कि सब of a व्यक्ति 's विटामिन d is इससे उनके आहार, although that will rarely occur in practice.
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol, जिससे is भी ज्ञात as calcifediol ( इन ), 25-hydroxycholecalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin d—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific vitamin D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status.
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol, the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a हार्मोन in the रक्त, regulating the विशेषज्ञता of कैल्सियम और फास्फेट in the bloodstream और promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone.
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for अन्य उद्देश्य, ऐसे as the अप्रसार, differentiation और apoptosis of कोशिकाएं ; calcitriol भी affects neuromuscular फलन and inflammation.
Beyond its उपयोग to prevent osteomalacia or rickets, the प्रमाण लिये अन्य स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent.
The बेहतरीन प्रमाण of लाभ is लिये bone health and a decrease in mortality in elderly women.
Standard रूप of the आवधिक table.
The colors represent अलग श्रेणी of elements explained below.
The periodic table is a tabular display of the रासायनिक तत्व, व्यवस्थित on the आधार of their atomic numbers, electron configurations, and recurring chemical properties.
Elements are प्रस्तुत in अनुक्रम of increasing परमाणु क्रमांक ( number of protons ).
The standard form of तालिका comprises an 18 × 7 ग्रिड or प्रमुख देह of तत्व, positioned above a smaller double row of elements.
The तालिका can भी be deconstructed into चार आयताकार ब्लॉक : the s-block to the बाएँ, the p-block to the right, the d-block in the middle, and the f-block below that.
The rows of the table are पुकारा अवधि ; the कालम of the s-, d-, और p-blocks हैं पुकारा समूह, साथ कुछ of ये having names such as the halogens or the noble gases.
चूंकि, by परिभाषा, a आवधिक तालिका incorporates पुनरावर्ती रुझान, कोई such table can be used to derive relationships between the properties of the elements and predict the properties of new, yet to be discovered or synthesized, elements.
as a परिणाम, a आवधिक table—whether in the मानक रूप or कुछ अन्य variant—provides a उपयोगी फ्रेमवर्क लिये analyzing chemical behavior, and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences.
Although precursors exist, Dmitri Mendeleev is generally credited with the प्रकाशन, in 1869, of the पहला widely पहचाना periodic table.
He developed his table to illustrate periodic trends in the गुण of the then-known तत्व.
Mendeleev also पूर्वानुमानित कुछ गुण of then-unknown तत्व कि होता be expected to fill gaps in this table.
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the तत्व in सवाल यहूद subsequently खोजा.
Mendeleev 's periodic table रै चूंकि महरूम विस्तारित और परिष्कृत साथ the डिस्कवरी or संश्लेषण of further नई तत्व और the विकास of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior.
All elements from atomic numbers 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have महरूम खोजा or synthesized.
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist naturally, हालांकि कुछ हैं मिला तभी in ट्रेस amounts और यहूद initially खोजा by संश्लेषण in laboratories.
the तत्व बाद 98 have तभी been synthesized in laboratories.
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued, with the question of how the periodic table may need to be परिवर्धित to accommodate कोई ऐसे परिवर्धन होने a पदार्थ of जारी बहस.
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring तत्व have भी महरूम उत्पादित in laboratories.
न्यूनतम मजदूरी by u.S. राज्य और u.S. territory ( अमरीकी Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands ), as of Jan. 1, 2013.
In the United States, workers are generally entitled to be सशुल्क no कम than the statutory minimum wage.
The federal government mandates a nationwide minimum wage level of $ 7.25 प्रति घंटा, जबकि कुछ राज्य और municipalities have नियत न्यूनतम मजदूरी स्तर उच्चतर than the संघीय स्तर, साथ the उच्चतम राज्य न्यूनतम मजदूरी होने $ 9.19 per hour in Washington as of 2013.
Among those paid by the घंटा in 2012, 1.6 लाख यहूद reported as earning exactly the prevailing federal minimum wage.
About 2.0 लाख यहूद reported as कमाई wages below the minimum.
Together, these 3.6 million मजदूर साथ मजदूरी at or below the minimum made up 4.7 percent of all hourly-paid workers.
A selection of Bourbons and Tennessee whiskeys offered at a liquor स्टोर in decatur, Georgia
Evan विलियम्स bourbon whiskey
bourbon whiskey is a प्रकार of अमरीकी whiskey – a barrel-aged distilled spirit made primarily from corn.
The name of the spirit derives from its historical association with an क्षेत्रफल ज्ञात as बूढ़ा bourbon, around कया is अभी bourbon काउंटी, केंटकी ( जिससे, in फेरे, was named after the French House of Bourbon royal family ).
It has महरूम उत्पादित चूंकि the 18th century.
While it may be बना anywhere in the संयुक्त राज्य, it is strongly संबद्ध साथ the अमरीकी South in general, and Kentucky in particular.
The Mona Lisa ( La Gioconda or La Joconde ) is a half-length portrait of a woman by the इतालवी कलाकार लियोनार्डो da विंची, जिससे रै महरूम acclaimed as `` the बेहतरीन ज्ञात, the सबसे visited, the सबसे लिखा परिचय, the most sung about, the most parodied work of art in the world. ''
The painting, विचार to be a पोर्ट्रेट of लिसा gherardini, the बीवी of francesco del Giocondo, is in oil on a poplar panel, and is believed to have been painted between 1503 and 1506.
It was acquired by King Francis I of France and is now the प्रॉपर्टी of the फ्रेंच गणतंत्र, on स्थाई प्रदर्शक at the Musée du Louvre in Paris since 1797.
The ambiguity of the subject 's expression, which is frequently described as enigmatic, the monumentality of the संयोजन, the हल्का मॉडलिंग of फ़ॉर्म और the वायुमंडलीय illusionism यहूद अनोखा qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination and study of the work.
Robert Allen Palmer ( 19 January 1949 – 26 September 2003 ), was an अंग्रेज़ी singer-songwriter और musician.
He was known for his distinctive voice and the eclectic mix of musical शैलियाँ on उसके एल्बम, combining आत्मा, जैज़, चट्टान, पॉप, reggae and blues.
He found success both in his solo career and in the musical अधिनियम the शक्ति स्टेशन, और था शीर्ष 10 songs in both the UK and the US.
His iconic music videos by टेरेंस डोनोवन लिये the हिट्स `` आदी to प्रेम `` और `` बस irresistible `` प्रदर्शित identically वेश नाचना महिलाओं with pale faces, dark eye makeup and bright red lipstick, which resembled the women in the art of Patrick Nagel, an artist popular in the 1980s.
Sharp-suited, his involvement in the music उद्योग commenced in the 1960s, covered पाँच दशकों और शामिल a spell with Vinegar Joe.
Palmer received a number of awards throughout his career, including two Grammy Awards for Best Male चट्टान गायन प्रदर्शन, an एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार, और थी twice मनोनीत लिये the ब्रिट Award for Best British Male.
Computed tomography angiography ( CTA ) is a computed टोमोग्राफी तकनीक प्रयुक्त to visualize arterial और venous बरतन throughout the body.
This ranges from arteries सेवारत the दिमाग to those bringing रक्त to the lungs, kidneys, arms and legs.
the champs-élysées सजा साथ flags for Bastille Day
Horseman of the फ्रेंच रिपब्लिकन गार्ड दौरान the 2007 military parade on the Champs-Élysées.
Prise de la bastille by jean-pierre-louis-laurent Houel
Bastille Day is the name given in English-speaking देशों to the फ्रेंच नेशनल दिन, जिससे is मनाये on the 14th of जुलाई each year.
In France, it is formally called la fête nationale ( ; the नेशनल जश्न ) और commonly le quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of July ).
It commemorates the 1790 Fête de la fédération, आयोजित on the पहला वर्षगांठ of the storming of the bastille on 14 जुलाई 1789 ; the वर्षगांठ of the storming of the bastille fortress-prison was seen as a symbol of the uprising of the modern nation, and of the reconciliation of all the French inside the constitutional monarchy which preceded the First Republic, during the French Revolution.
Festivities and official ceremonies हैं आयोजित सब over फ़्रांस.
The oldest and largest regular military parade in यूरोपीय is आयोजित on the morning of 14 जुलाई, on the champs-élysées एवेन्यू in पेरिस in सामने of the अध्यक्ष of the Republic, French officials and foreign guests.
The United States of America ( यूएसए or u.s.A. ), commonly पुकारा the संयुक्त राज्य ( us or u.S. ) or अमेरिका, is a federal republic consisting of fifty states and a federal district.
The lower forty-eight contiguous states and the federal district of Washington, D.C. are in सेंट्रल उत्तर अमेरिका between कनाडा और मैक्सिको.
The state of अलास्का is वेस्ट of कनाडा और ईस्ट of रूस आरपार the बेरिंग जलसन्धि, and the state of Hawaii is in the mid-North Pacific.
The country also has five populated and nine unpopulated territories in the प्रशांत और the caribbean.
At 3.79 million वर्गाकार मील ( 9.83 लाख km2 ) और साथ around 315 लाख लोगों, the संयुक्त राज्य is the third- or fourth-largest country by total area and the third-largest by both land area and population.
It is एक of the संसार 's सबसे ethnically विविध और multicultural nations, the product of large-scale immigration from many countries.
The geography and climate of the U.S. is also extremely diverse, with deserts, plains, वनों, और kyu कि हैं घर to a चौड़ी किस्में of प्रजाति.
paleoindians migrated इससे एशिया to कया is अभी the संयुक्त States mainland around 15,000 years ago.
After 1500, Old World diseases introduced by europeans greatly घटाया उनके populations.
European colonization began around 1600 और आए ज़्यादातर from England.
The United States emerged from thirteen British colonies स्तिथ साथ the अटलांटिक seaboard.
विवादों between ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और the अमरीकी colonies led to the American Revolution.
On July 4, 1776, delegates इससे the 13 colonies unanimously जारी the Declaration of Independence, which established the United States of America.
The American Revolutionary War, which ended with the recognition of independence of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, थी the पहला कामयाब युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता विरूद्ध a यूरोपीय औपनिवेशिक empire.
the वर्तमान संविधान थी अपनाया on सितंबर 17, 1787 ; twenty-seven Amendments have since been added to the Constitution.
The first ten amendments, collectively named the Bill of अधिकारों, यहूद ratified in 1791 और गारंटी अनेक आधारभूत सिविल अधिकारों और freedoms.
Driven by the doctrine of manifest destiny, the संयुक्त राज्य embarked on a vigorous विस्तार आरपार उत्तर America throughout the 19th century.
This शामिल displacing देशी जनजातियों, acquiring new territories, and gradually admitting new states.
The American Civil War ended legalized गुलामी in the संयुक्त राज्य.
by the समाप्त of the उन्नीसवीं सदी, the संयुक्त राज्य विस्तारित into the Pacific Ocean, and its economy was the world 's largest.
The spanish–american युद्ध और पुष्टि the country 's status as a global military power.
The United States emerged from as a global superpower, the first country with nuclear हथियार, और a स्थाई सदस्य of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद.
The end of the Cold युद्ध और the विच्छेद of the सोवियत संघ left the United States as the sole superpower.
The United States is a developed देश और रै the संसार 's largest नेशनल अर्थव्यवस्था, साथ an अनुमानित 2012 जीडीपी of $ 15.6 trillion 19 % of global GDP at purchasing-power parity, as of 2011.
the प्रति capita जीडीपी of the u.S. थी the संसार 's sixth-highest as of 2010, although America 's wealth inequality was also ranked highest among OECD countries by the World Bank.
The economy is fueled by an abundance of प्राकृतिक संसाधन, a well-developed अवसंरचना, और ऊँची उत्पादकता ; और जबकि इसके अर्थव्यवस्था is माना post-industrial it continues to be one of the world 's largest manufacturers.
The country accounts for 39 % of global military spending, and is a leading economic, राजनैतिक, और सांस्कृतिक फ़ोर्स in the संसार, as खूब as a नेता in scientific research and technological innovation.
The NCAA Men 's प्रभाग i बास्केट चैंपियनशिप is a single-elimination टूर्नामेंट निभाई प्रत्येक वसन्त in the United States, currently featuring 68 college basketball teams, to determine the national championship of the major college basketball teams.
The tournament, organized by the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ), was created during 1939 by the नेशनल संघ of बास्केट कोच, और थी the विचार of ओहियो राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों कोच Harold Olsen.
निभाई ज़्यादातर दौरान कूच, it is ज्ञात informally as कूच दीवानगी or the बिग नृत्य, और रै become एक of the most famous annual sporting events in the United States.
The NCAA has credited bob वाल्श of the सिएटल आयोजन Committee for starting the March Madness celebration during 1984.
The tournament teams include champions from 31 प्रभाग i सम्मेलनों ( जिससे प्राप्त स्वचालित बोलियों ), और 37 टीमों जिससे हैं awarded at-large berths.
These `` at-large '' teams हैं चुनी by an ncaa चयन committee, as detailed below.
The 64 teams are divided into four regions and organized into a सिंगल विलोपन `` कोष्ठक '', जिससे predetermines, जब a टोली विन्स a खेल, which team it will face next.
प्रत्येक टोली is `` seeded '', or ranked, within its region.
After an initial four games between आठ lower-ranked टीमों, the टूर्नामेंट occurs दौरान the कोर्स of तीन weekends, at pre-selected neutral sites around the United States.
Lower-ranked teams are placed in the कोष्ठक विरूद्ध उच्चतर ranked teams.
Each weekend eliminates three-fourths of the teams, from a round of 64, to a `` Sweet Sixteen '', and लिये the पिछला वीकेंड of the टूर्नामेंट a फाइनल चार ; the फाइनल चार is प्रायः निभाई दौरान the पहला वीकेंड of April.
These four teams, one from प्रत्येक प्रदेश, तब compete in एक स्थान for the national championship.
The tournament has been at तनिक partially televised since 1969.
Presently, the games are reported by सीबीएस, tbs, टीएनटी, और trutv by the trade-name NCAA March Madness.
चूंकि 2011, सब खेल हैं उपलब्धियाँ for viewing nationwide.
As टेलीविज़न कवरेज रै grown, so too has the tournament 's popularity.
presently, लाखो of अमेरिकी `` fill out a bracket '', predicting winners of all 67 games.
साथ 11 नेशनल शीर्षक, ucla रै the रिकार्ड लिये the सबसे ncaa मेन 's प्रभाग I Basketball Championships ; John Wooden coached UCLA to 10 of its 11 titles.
The University of Kentucky is second, with 8 national titles, while Indiana University and the विश्वविद्यालयों of उत्तर कैरोलिना हैं tied लिये तीसरा साथ 5 नेशनल शीर्षक.
Duke University ranks पांचवां साथ 4 नेशनल titles.
A sample of सिंथेटिक मोटर oil
सिंथेटिक आयल is a स्नेहक consisting of रासायनिक यौगिकों कि हैं artificially made ( synthesized ).
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically परिवर्धित पेट्रोलियम components बल्कि than पूरे crude आयल, लकिन can भी be synthesized from other raw materials.
Synthetic oil is used as a substitute for lubricant refined from petroleum when operating in extremes of temperature, because, in general, it provides superior mechanical and chemical properties than those मिला in परंपरागत खनिज oils.
Aircraft jet engines, for example, require the use of synthetic oils, whereas वायुयान पिस्टन engines do not.
Jackass is an American reality series, originally shown on MTV from 2000 to 2002, featuring लोगों performing विभिन्न खतरनाक, crude self-injuring stunts and pranks.
The show served as a launchpad for the television और एक्टिंग करियर of bam margera, steve-o, और भी जॉनी knoxville, जो previously had only a few minor acting roles.
Since 2002, three Jackass films have been उत्पादित और released by एमटीवी कॉरपोरेट सहोदर सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें, continuing the मताधिकार बाद its run on television.
The show sparked several spin-offs सहित चिरायु la bam, wildboyz, homewrecker, Dr. Steve-O and Blastazoid.
The show placed # 68 on entertainment साप्ताहिक `` नई tv क्लासिक '' list.
Roseanne Cherrie Barr ( born November 3, 1952 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री, comedienne, लेखक, टेलीविज़न निर्माता, निदेशक, और 2012 अध्यक्षीय nominee of the California -based Peace and Freedom Party.
Barr began her करियर in stand-up कॉमेडी at क्लब पहले gaining कीर्ति लिये उसके भूमिका in the sitcom Roseanne.
The show was a hit and lasted nine सीज़न, इससे 1988 to 1997.
वो जीती दोनो an एमी और a सुनहरी Globe Award for Best Actress for her work on the show.
barr था crafted a `` fierce working-class घरेलू देवी '' persona in the eight years preceding her sitcom and wanted to do a realistic show about a strong mother who was not a victim of patriarchal consumerism.
The granddaughter of immigrants from Europe and Russia, Barr was the oldest of चार children in a working-class यहूदी नमक झील नगर परिवार ; वो थी भी active in the LDS Church.
In 1974, she married Bill Pentland, with whom she had three children, पहले divorcing in 1990 और marrying हास्य tom अर्नाल्ड लिये चार सालो.
Controversy arose when वो संग `` the star-spangled ध्वज `` off-key at a 1990 nationally aired baseball game, followed by grabbing her crotch and spitting.
After her sitcom ended, she launched उसके अपना बात दिखाएँ, the roseanne Show, which aired from 1998 to 2000.
In 2005, वो लौटे to stand-up comedy with a world tour.
In 2011, she starred in an unscripted TV show, Roseanne 's Nuts, that lasted from July to सितंबर of कि साल, परिचय उसके जीवन on a Hawaiian farm.
In early 2012, Barr घोषित उसके उम्मीदवारी लिये the अध्यक्षीय nomination of the Green Party.
Barr lost the नामांकन to Jill Stein.
She then sought the presidential nomination of the सलाम और स्वतंत्रता पार्टी, जिससे वो जीती on अगस्त 4, 2012.
Barr received 61,971 votes in the सामान्य चुनाव, रखकर छठे overall.
Francesco Albani 's 17th century Baptism of मसीह is a ठेठ चित्रण साथ the आसमान खोलने और the पावन Spirit descending as a dove.
The baptism of Jesus marks the शुरूआत of उसके पब्लिक मंत्रालय.
This इवेंट is अंकित in the canonical gospels of मैथ्यू, Mark and Luke.
John 's gospel does not describe Jesus ' baptism, but जॉन the बैपटिस्ट करता गवाही of the अन्य बाते in.
In the New Testament, John the Baptist preached the बपतिस्मा of तौबा लिये the remission of पापों ( ), and declared himself a forerunner of he that would baptize `` with the Holy Ghost and with fire '' ( ).
In so doing he थी तैयारी the रास्ता for Jesus.
Jesus came to the जॉर्डन नदी जहाँ he थी baptized by John.
The baptismal झाँकी शामिल the आकाश खोलने, a dove-like descent of the पावन स्पिरिट, और a आवाज़ इससे heaven saying, `` This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. ''
Most modern scholars view the fact that यीशु थी baptized by जॉन as an ऐतिहासिक इवेंट to जिससे a ऊँची उपाधि of certainty can be assigned.
Along with the crucifixion of Jesus most scholars view it as one of the two historically निश्चित तथ्य परिचय उसे, और प्रायः उपयोग it as the starting अंक लिये the study of the historical Jesus.
The baptism is one of the five major milestones in the इन्जील कथा of the जीवन of यीशु, the अन्य होने the बासीलीक, crucifixion, क़यामत, and Ascension.
Most Christian denominations view the baptism of Jesus as an important इवेंट और a आधार लिये the ईसाई रीति of बपतिस्मा ( देखिए भी ).
In Eastern christianity, यीशु ' बपतिस्मा is commemorated on 6 जनवरी, the feast of Epiphany.
In the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर, the anglican नियाज़, the लूथरन चर्च और कुछ other Western denominations, it is recalled on a day within the following week, the feast of the baptism of the Lord.
In Roman Catholicism, the baptism of Jesus is one of the चमकदार रहस्यों sometimes added to the rosary.
It is a trinitarian feast in the पूर्वी Orthodox Churches.
Methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a रूप of विटामिन B12.
Physically it resembles the other फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन b12, occurring as अंधेरा रेड crystals that freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water.
Vitamin B12, vitamin B12 or विटामिन b-12, भी पुकारा cobalamin, is a water-soluble विटामिन साथ a कुंजी भूमिका in the सामान्य कामकाज of the brain and nervous system, and for the formation of blood.
It is one of the eight B विटामिन.
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body, especially affecting DNA संश्लेषण और विनियमन, लकिन भी वसीय एसिड संश्लेषण and energy production.
Neither fungi, plants, nor पशु हैं सक्षम of producing विटामिन b12.
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required for its संश्लेषण, हालांकि अनेक भोजन हैं a प्राकृतिक सोर्स of b12 क्युकी of bacterial symbiosis.
The vitamin is the largest and सबसे structurally जटिल विटामिन और can be उत्पादित industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis.
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically related compounds ( vitamers ), सब of जिससे have विटामिन कार्यकलाप.
It contains the biochemically rare element cobalt.
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the विटामिन is संपन्नता तभी by जीवाणु ( जिससे प्रायः उपज hydroxocobalamin ), लकिन conversion between different forms of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body.
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin, cyanocobalamin, does not occur in nature, but is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin और तब प्रयुक्त in अनेक दवाएँ और पूरक, और as a खाना योगात्मक, क्युकी of इसके स्थिरता और निम्नतर उत्पादन लागत.
In the body it is converted to the इंसान physiological फ़ॉर्म methylcobalamin और adenosylcobalamin, leaving behind the cyanide, albeit in minimal concentration.
More recently, hydroxocobalamin, methylcobalamin, और adenosylcobalamin can be मिला in अधिक महंगी pharmacological products and food supplements.
The अतिरिक्त यूटिलिटी of ये is currently debated.
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia, जिससे is an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in जिससे parietal कोशिकाएं of the पेट जिम्मेदार for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed.
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal absorption of B12, so a कमी of मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर, as देखी in घातक रक्ताल्पता, कल्याणकारी a vitamin B12 deficiency.
Many अन्य subtler kinds of विटामिन b12 deficiency and their biochemical effects have since been elucidated.
Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 युद्ध फिल्मी उत्पादित, निर्देशित और co-written by Stanley Kubrick.
It is an adaptation of Gustav Hasford 's 1979 अनोखा the short-timers और सितारों मैथ्यू modine, विंसेंट d'onofrio, R. Lee Ermey, Arliss Howard, and Adam Baldwin.
The film follows a प्लाटून of u.S. marines through उनके प्रशिक्षण और the अनुभवों of दो of the platoon 's Marines in the Tet Offensive during the Vietnam War.
The फिल्मी 's शीर्षक refers to the full metal jacket bullet used by infantry riflemen.
the फिल्मी प्राप्त critical acclaim.
It received an अकादमी पुरस्कार नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन adapted पटकथा लिये kubrick, Michael Herr and Gustav Hasford.
In 2001, the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान लगाई पूरा मेटल जैकेट at # 95 in उनके `` AFI 's 100 Years... 100 Thrills `` poll.
TMZ is a celebrity news website कि debuted on नवम्बर 8, 2005.
It was a collaboration between AOL and telepictures प्रोडक्शन्स, a प्रभाग of warner भाईs., जबतक Time Warner divested AOL in 2009.
However, it remained संबद्ध साथ एओएल न्यूज और रै the एओएल न्यूज logo affixed in the upper right corner.
The name TMZ stands for the historic `` studio zone `` or 30-mile zone दायरा इससे the चौराहे of वेस्ट बेवर्ली boulevard और उत्तर la cienega boulevard in लॉस एंजिल्स.
TMZ 's managing editor is Harvey Levin, a lawyer-turned-journalist who was previously a विधिक विशेषज्ञ लिये the लॉस एंजिल्स टेलीविज़न स्टेशन KCBS-TV.
The site claims that it does not pay for stories or interviews ; however, levin रै admitted कि tmz करता `` sometimes अदा स्त्रोत लिये लीड on stories ''.
Levin has stated that `` सबकुछ is शोधकार्य और vetted for accuracy. ''
A साथी tv श्रेणी, tmz on TV, debuted on September 10, 2007.
चीख 3 is a 2000 अमरीकी slasher फिल्मी निर्मित by केविन विलियमसन, निर्देशित by वेस craven और लिखा by Ehren Kruger, starring Neve Campbell, Courteney Cox Arquette and David Arquette.
It was released on February 4, 2000 as the तीसरा किश्त in the चीख फिल्मी श्रेणी.
The events of the story are set three years after those of Scream 2 and follows sidney प्रेस्कॉट ( कैम्पबेल ) जो रै गए into self-imposed अलगाव following the कार्यक्रम of the पिछला दो films लकिन is drawn to हॉलीवुड बाद a नई ghostface begins killing the cast of the film within a film `` Stab 3 ''.
Scream 3 combines the हिंसा of the slasher विधा साथ कॉमेडी और `` whodunit `` रहस्य जबकि satirizing the cliché of film trilogies.
Unlike the previous Scream films, वहीँ थी an increased जोर on comedic तत्व और the हिंसा और हॉरर थी घटाया in जवाब to increased पब्लिक scrutiny about violence in media following the Columbine High School massacre.
The film was the concluding chapter of the Scream series जबतक it थी revived साथ a sequel, Scream 4, in 2011.
Williamson provided a five-page outline for two सिक्वेल to चीख जब auctioning उसके असली स्क्रिप्ट, उम्मीद to entice bidders with the potential of buying a franchise.
Williamson 's commitments to other projects meant he was unable to develop a पूरा स्क्रिप्ट लिये चीख 3 और लिखने कर्तव्य यहूद undertaken by ehren क्रूगर जो discarded much of विलियमसन 's टीप.
Craven and Marco Beltrami लौटे to सीधा और स्कोर the फिल्मी क्रमशः as वे था साथ the previous two series entries.
Production was troubled with script rewrites, with पृष्ठों sometimes तभी तैयार on the दिन of फिल्मांकन, and scheduling difficulties with the main cast.
Scream 3 performed दोनो financially और critically बदतर than इसके preceding films, कमाई over $ 161 लाख और साथ अनेक critics claiming that the film had become what Scream originally `` spoofed ``.
Despite negative criticism the film did receive तारीफ़ साथ reviewers कॉलिंग it the पूर्ण समाप्त to the Scream trilogy.
As of 2012, the film is currently the number 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in उत्तर अमेरिका, following चीख at क्रमांक 1 और चीख 2 at number 2.
The film 's soundtrack was well-received, बिता चौदह सप्ताह on the बिलबोर्ड 200 और reaching a high of # 32.
Shoulder impingement सिंड्रोम, भी पुकारा दुखद चाप सिंड्रोम, supraspinatus सिंड्रोम, तैराक 's कंधे, और thrower 's कंधे, is a नैदानिक syndrome which occurs when the tendons of the rotator cuff muscles become irritated and inflamed as they pass through the subacromial space, the passage beneath the acromion.
This can result in pain, कमज़ोरी और घाटा of गति at the कंधे.
JLA was a मासिक कॉमिक किताब प्रकाशित by dc कॉमिक्स इससे जनवरी 1997 to April 2006 featuring the Justice League.
The colonial history of the United States कवर the इतिहास of यूरोपीय settlements इससे the प्रारंभ of colonization of अमेरिका जबतक उनके incorporation into the United States.
In the लेट 16th सदी, इंग्लैण्ड, फ़्रांस, स्पेन और the नीदरलैंड्स launched major colonization programs in eastern North America.
Small early attempts—such as the English Lost उपनिवेश of roanoke —often disappeared ; everywhere the मौत रेट of the पहला आमद थी very high.
Nevertheless कामयाब colonies यहूद स्थापित.
European settlers आए इससे a किस्में of सोशल and religious groups.
No aristocrats settled permanently, लकिन a number of adventurers, soldiers, farmers, and tradesmen arrived.
Diversity was an American characteristic as the Dutch of New Netherland, the swedes और finns of नई स्वीडन, the अंग्रेज़ी quakers of पेन्सिलवेनिया, the अंग्रेज़ी puritans of नई इंग्लैण्ड, the अंग्रेज़ी settlers of jamestown, और the `` worthy poor '' of Georgia, came to the new continent and built colonies with distinctive social, religious, political and economic styles.
Occasionally one colony took कंट्रोल of another ( दौरान युद्धों between their European parents ).
तभी in नोवा स्कोटिया ( अभी भाग of कनाडा ) किया the conquerors expel the previous colonists.
Instead they all जिया पक्ष by पक्ष in सलाम.
There were no major civil wars among the 13 colonies, और the दो मुख्य हथियारबंद विद्रोहों ( in वर्जिनिया in 1676 और in नई यॉर्क in 1689–91 ) were short-lived failures.
Wars between the French and the British—the French and Indian युद्धों और पिता rale 's युद्ध —were तूल, और शामिल french-support for Wabanaki Confederacy attacks on the frontiers.
By 1760 France was defeated और the अंग्रेजों जब्त इसके colonies.
The four distinct regions यहूद : नई इंग्लैण्ड, the मध्य colonies, the Chesapeake Bay Colonies ( Upper South ) and the Lower South.
Some historians add a fifth प्रदेश, the frontier, जिससे थी never separately organized.
By the time यूरोपीय settlers arrived around 1600–1650, the बहुमत of the देशी अमेरिकी जीना in the पूर्वी United States had been decimated by new diseases, introduced to them decades before by explorers and sailors.
See समयरेखा of औपनिवेशिक अमेरिका लिये list of historical events.
Gloria Laura Vanderbilt ( born February 20, 1924 ) is an अमरीकी कलाकार, लेखक, अभिनेत्री, heiress, और socialite most noted as an early developer of designer blue jeans.
She is a member of the prominent Vanderbilt परिवार of नई यॉर्क और the माँ of सीएनएन 's एंडरसन Cooper.
Greece ( Romanization of Greek| ), officially the हैलेनिक गणतंत्र ( ' ), is a country in Southeast Europe.
According to the 2011 जनसांख्यिकी, यूनानियों 's जनसांख्यिकी is around 11 million.
Athens is the nation 's capital और largest नगर, इसके शहरी क्षेत्रफल भी including Piraeus.
Greece is strategically located at the crossroads of Europe, Asia, the Middle East, और अफ़्रीकी, और रै जमीन सीमायें साथ अल्बानियाई, the गणतंत्र of मकदूनिया और बुल्गारिया to the north, and Turkey to the northeast.
The Aegean Sea lies to the east of mainland Greece, the आयोनियन समुद्र to the वेस्ट, और the भूमध्यसागरीय समुद्र to the south.
यूनानियों रै the 11th longest तटरेखा in the संसार at in लंबाई, featuring a विशाल number of islands ( approximately 1,400, of which 227 are inhabited ), including Crete, the Dodecanese, the Cyclades, and the Ionian Islands among others.
Eighty percent of Greece consists of kyu, of जिससे माउंट ओलम्पस is the highest at.
Modern Greece traces its जड़ें to the सभ्यता of प्राचीन यूनानियों, generally considered the cradle of Western civilization.
As such, it is the birthplace of democracy, Western philosophy, the Olympic Games, Western literature and historiography, राजनैतिक विज्ञान, प्रमुख वैज्ञानिक और mathematical principles, and Western drama, including both tragedy and comedy.
This legacy is partly reflected in the सत्रह UNESCO World Heritage Sites located in Greece, ranking it 7th in Europe and 13th in the world.
The modern यूनानी राज्य थी स्थापित in 1830, following the Greek War of Independence.
यूनानियों is a founding सदस्य of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र, रै महरूम a सदस्य of कया is अभी the European Union since 1981 ( and the eurozone since 2001 ), and has been a member of NATO since 1952.
यूनानियों is a विकसित देश साथ an उन्नत, high-income economy and very high standards of living, including the world 's 21st highest quality of life as of 2010.
Greece 's economy is also the largest in the balkans, जहाँ यूनानियों is an important regional investor.
A prime meridian is a meridian, i.e. a line of longitude, at which देशांतर is पारिभाषित to be 0°.
A prime meridian and its विपरीत in a 360°-system, the 180th मध्याह्न ( at 180° देशांतर ), form a great circle.
This great circle divides the गोला, e.g. the धरती, into two hemispheres.
If one uses दिशानिर्देश of ईस्ट और वेस्ट इससे a पारिभाषित प्रधान मध्याह्न, तब वे can be called Eastern Hemisphere and Western Hemisphere.
Gerardus Mercator in his Atlas Cosmographicae ( 1595 ) उपयोग a प्रधान मध्याह्न कही बंद to 25°W, passing just to the west of Santa Maria Island in the Atlantic.
His 180th meridian runs along the जलसन्धि of anián ( बेरिंग जलसन्धि )
A prime meridian is ultimately मनमानी, नापसंद an equator, जिससे is संकल्पित by the अक्ष of rotation—and विभिन्न conventions have been used or advocated in different regions and throughout history.
minka dumont केली ( born minka dumont Dufay ; June 24, 1980 ) is an American actress.
She is शायद बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ in चार्ली 's फ़रिश्ते, Friday Night Lights, and The Roommate.
R.O.B. ( Robotic Operating दोस्त ), released in जापानी as the, is an accessory for the Nintendo Entertainment System ( NES ).
It was released in July 1985 in Japan और बाद कि साल in उत्तर अमेरिका.
It had a short product lifespan, with support for only two games जिससे comprised the `` रोबोट श्रेणी '' ; Gyromite and Stack-Up.
R.O.B. was released with the intention of portraying the Nintendo Entertainment System as कुछ अनोखा in अनुक्रम to alleviate खुदरा fears following the video game crash of 1983.
R.O.B. was available in the Deluxe Set, a विन्यास लिये the कंसोल कि शामिल, among अन्य बाते, r.o.b. और Gyromite.
Stack-Up was purchased separately और शामिल इसके अपना शारीरिक खेल pieces.
The Walking Liberty half dollar was a silver 50-cent piece or half dollar coin issued by the United States मिंट इससे 1916 to 1947 ; it थी designed by एडाल्फ A. weinman.
In 1915, the new Mint Director, Robert W. Woolley, came to believe that he was not तभी अनुमत लकिन जरूरी by विधि to बदलें सिक्का डिजाइन कि था महरूम in use for 25 years.
He therefore began the process of replacing the Barber coinage : dimes, quarters और हाफ डॉलर, सब bearing समान डिजाइन by long-time मिंट engraver चार्ल्स E. Barber, and first struck in 1892.
Woolley had the आयोग of ठीक कला conduct a प्रतियोगिता, as a परिणाम of which Weinman was selected to design the dime and half dollar.
Weinman 's design of Liberty striding towards the Sun for the half dollar proved difficult to perfect, and Treasury सचिव विलियम G. mcadoo, जिनकी विभाग शामिल the मिंट, माना having नाई create his own design.
Mint officials were successful in getting Weinman 's design into production, although it never struck बहुत खूब, जिससे may have महरूम a फ़ैक्टर in इसके बदलना by the फ्रैंकलिन हाफ डालर beginning in 1948.
Nevertheless, art historian Cornelius Vermeule considered the piece to be among the सबसे खूबसूरत us coins.
Since 1986, a modification of Weinman 's obverse डिज़ाइन रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये the अमरीकी Silver Eagle.
The Toyota 4runner is a mid-size खेल यूटिलिटी गाडी ( एसयूवी ) उत्पादित by the Japanese manufacturer Toyota and sold throughout the world from 1984 to present.
In जापानी it थी ज्ञात as the Toyota Hilux Surf.
The original 4Runner was a compact SUV and little more than a टोयोटा पिकअप ट्रक साथ a fiberglass शेल over the bed, लकिन the मॉडल रै चूंकि undergone significant independent development into a cross between a compact and a mid-size SUV.
All 4Runners have been built at Toyota 's Tahara plant in Tahara, Aichi, Japan, or at hino मोटर्स ' hamura, जापानी संयंत्र, और in Brazil.
इसके mid-size क्रॉसओवर एसयूवी बंटवारा is the Toyota Highlander.
This article deals with medicine as practiced by प्रशिक्षित पेशेवर इससे ancient times to the present.
The ancient Egyptians had a system of आयुर्विज्ञान कि थी बहुत उन्नत लिये इसके समय और बहकावे later medical traditions.
The Egyptians and Babylonians both introduced the अवधारणाओं of निदान, prognosis, and medical examination.
The Greeks गई भी further, और उन्नत as well medical ethics.
The hippocratic शपथ, स्टिल लिया by डॉक्टर today, was written in Greece in the 5th century BCE.
In the medieval era, surgical practices inherited from the ancient masters were improved and then systematized in rogerius 's the Practice of Surgery.
विश्वविद्यालयों began व्यवस्थित प्रशिक्षण of physicians around the years 1220 in Italy.
During the Renaissance, समझना of anatomy improved, और the microscope was invented.
The germ theory of बीमारी in the 19th सदी led to cures लिये अनेक संक्रामक diseases.
Military डॉक्टर उन्नत the विधि of trauma treatment and surgery.
Public स्वास्थ्य उपायों यहूद विकसित विशेषकर in the 19th सदी as the rapid growth of cities required systematic sanitary measures.
Advanced research centers opened in the जल्दी 20th सदी, प्रायः कनेक्ट with major hospitals.
the mid-20th सदी थी characterized by नई biological treatments, such as antibiotics.
These advancements, along with developments in रसायन, आनुवंशिकी, और lab प्रौद्योगिकी ( ऐसे as the x-ray ) led to modern medicine.
Medicine थी heavily professionalized in the 20th सदी, और नई करियर opened to women as nurses ( from the 1870s ) and as physicians ( especially after 1970 ).
The 21st century is characterized by बहुत उन्नत शोध involving numerous फ़ील्ड of science.
The hippocratic कॉर्पस, is a संग्रहण of जल्दी चिकित्सा works इससे प्राचीन यूनानियों strongly संबद्ध साथ the ancient Greek physician Hippocrates and his teachings.
Potassium is a chemical तत्व साथ प्रतीक k ( इससे neo-latin kalium ) और atomic number 19.
Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white क्षारीय मेटल कि oxidizes rapidly in एयर और is बहुत प्रतिक्रिया with water, generating sufficient heat to ignite the hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame.
Because potassium and सोडियम हैं chemically बहुत समान, उनके लवण यहूद नहीं at first differentiated.
The existence of अनेक तत्व in उनके लवण थी suspected इससे 1702, और इस थी सिद्ध in 1807 when potassium and sodium were individually isolated from different salts by electrolysis.
Potassium in nature occurs तभी in ionic लवण.
as ऐसे, it is मिला dissolved in seawater ( which is 0.04 % potassium by weight ), and is part of many minerals.
Most industrial chemical applications of पोटैशियम employ the अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची घुलनशीलता in water of potassium compounds, such as potassium soaps.
Potassium metal has only a few special अनुप्रयोग, होने replaced in सबसे रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ साथ सोडियम metal.
Potassium ions are जरुरी लिये the फलन of all living cells.
Potassium ion diffusion is a key mechanism in तंत्रिका हस्तांतरण, और पोटैशियम depletion in पशु, including humans, results in various cardiac dysfunctions.
Potassium accumulates in plant cells, and thus भैस फल और सब्जियां हैं a शुभ dietary source of it.
Conversely, most plants except विशेषज्ञ halophytes हैं असहिष्णु of नमक, और सोडियम is present in them only in low concentration.
This resulted in पोटैशियम पहला होने isolated from potash, the ashes of plants, giving the element its name.
For the same reason, heavy crop production rapidly depletes soils of potassium, and agricultural fertilizers consume 95 % of वैश्विक पोटैशियम chemical production.
The Singapore डालर or डालर ( चिह्न : $ ; कोड : sgd ) is the official currency of Singapore.
It is normally abbreviated with the डालर चिह्न $, or alternatively s $ to फर्क it from other dollar -denominated currencies.
it is विभाजित into 100 cents.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Brunei करेंसी और मौद्रिक फलक स्टिल maintain the ऐतिहासिक exchangeability of their two currencies, the Singaporean dollar and the Brunei dollar, respectively.
The dollar is accepted as `` प्रथागत टेंडर '' in ब्रुनेई according to the Currency Interchangeability Agreement.
Likewise, the ब्रुनेई डालर is customarily स्वीकृत in सिंगापुर
James Samuel Coleman ( May 12, 1926 – March 25, 1995 ) थी an अमरीकी समाजशास्त्री, theorist और अनुभवजन्य researcher, based chiefly at the University of Chicago.
He was elected अध्यक्ष of the अमरीकी Sociological Association.
Coleman studied the sociology of education, public policy, and was एक of the earliest उपयोक्ता of the पद `` सोशल capital ``.
His Foundations of सोशल सिद्धान्त बहकावे समाजशास्त्रीय theory.
His The Adolescent Society ( 1961 ) and `` Coleman रपट '' ( समता of शैक्षणिक अवसर, 1966 ) यहूद दो of the सबसे heavily cited books in educational sociology.
The landmark Coleman Report helped transform educational theory, reshape national education policies, and influenced पब्लिक और scholarly राय regarding the भूमिका of schooling in determining समता और उत्पादकता in the United States.
Superman ( from DC कॉमिक्स ) थी the पहला सुपरहीरो निर्मित, art by Jim Lee.
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or सुपर नायिका ) is a प्रकार of भण्डार अक्षर possessing `` extraordinary or superhuman powers '' and dedicated to protecting the public.
चूंकि the डेब्यू of the prototypical सुपरहीरो सुपरमैन in 1938, कहानियां of superheroes—ranging इससे ब्रैड episodic adventures to continuing years-long sagas—have dominated American comic books and crossed over into other media.
The word itself तिथियाँ to at तनिक 1917.
A मादा सुपरहीरो is sometimes पुकारा a superheroine ( also rendered super-heroine or super heroine ).
`` SUPER नायक '' is a ट्रेडमार्क co-owned by DC Comics and Marvel Comics.
By most परिभाषाएं, वर्ण do नहीं सख्ती आवश्यकता वास्तविक superhuman शक्तियां to be deemed superheroes, हालांकि शर्तें ऐसे as costumed crime fighters or masked vigilantes are sometimes used to refer to those such as Batman and Green Arrow without such powers who share other common superhero traits.
Such characters were generally referred to as `` mystery men '' in the so-called Golden आयु of कॉमिक किताबे to फर्क उन्हें इससे वर्ण साथ super-powers.
Normally, superheroes use their powers to counter day-to-day crime while also combating खतरे विरूद्ध मानवता by supervillains, उनके दण्ड counterparts.
Often, one of ये supervillains होगा be the superhero 's archenemy.
As well, some longrunning superheroes, such as Superman, Batman, spider-man और आयरन man प्रत्येक रै a rogues दीर्घा of दुश्मनों.
As well, superheroes sometimes will combat ऐसे irregular खतरे as एलियंस, magical/ काल्पनिक entities, American war enemies such as nazism or communism, and godlike or demonic creatures.
The following is a historical list of अभिनेताओं और primary character roles which appear on the American soap opera One Life to Live.
The Shawshank मोचन is a 1994 अमरीकी नाटक फिल्मी लिखा और निर्देशित by फ़्रैंक darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.
Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who spends nearly दो दशकों in shawshank राज्य थाना लिये the हत्या of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence.
During his time at the prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd `` Red '' Redding, and finds himself सुरक्षित by the गार्ड बाद the वार्डन begins using उसे in उसके धन laundering operation.
Despite a lukewarm box office reception that barely recouped its budget, the film received अनुकूल समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, अनेक पुरस्कार nominations, और रै चूंकि enjoyed a उल्लेखनीय जीवन on केबल टेलीविज़न, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray.
It was included in the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's 100 सालो... 100 Movies 10th Anniversary Edition.
IT management is the discipline whereby सब of the प्रौद्योगिकी संसाधन of a कड़ हैं प्रबंधित in accordance with its needs and priorities.
These resources may include tangible निवेश जैसे कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर, तन्त्र, आंकड़ा, संजाल और आंकड़ा केन्द्र सुविधाएं, as खूब as the staffs who are hired to maintain them.
Managing this जिम्मेदारी भीतर a कम्पनी entails अनेक of the मौलिक प्रबन्धन कृत्यों, जैसे budgeting, स्टॉफ, और आयोजन और controlling, साथ with other aspects that are unique to technology, like change management, software design, network planning, tech support etc.
The Penitentiary of New Mexico Prison Riot, which took place on February 2 and 3, 1980, in the state 's maximum सुरक्षा थाना दक्षिण of सांता fe, थी एक of the सबसे हिंसक थाना दंगे in the इतिहास of the अमरीकी correctional प्रणाली : 33 inmates died और अधिक than 200 inmates यहूद treated लिये चोटों.
None of the 12 officers taken hostage were killed, but seven were treated लिये चोटों caused by beatings और rapes.
This was the third major riot at the NM State Penitentiary, the first occurring on 19 जुलाई 1922 और the दूसरी on 15 जून 1953.
Author Roger Morris suggests the death toll may have been higher, as a number of bodies were incinerated or dismembered दौरान the कोर्स of the mayhem.
`` रेड कार्डिनल '' redirects here.
For the plant erythrina herbacea, देखिए मूँगा Bean.
The Northern Cardinal ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a North American bird in the genus cardinalis ; it is भी ज्ञात colloquially as the redbird or common cardinal.
It can be found in southern Canada, through the पूर्वी संयुक्त राज्य इससे maine to टेक्सास और दक्षिण through Mexico.
It is मिला in वुडलैंड्स, gardens, shrublands, and swamps.
the उत्तरी कार्डिनल is a mid-sized songbird with a body length of 21 centimeters ( 8.3 inches ).
It has a distinctive crest on the head and a mask on the फेस जिससे is ब्लैक in the पुरूष और धूसर in the मादा.
The male is a vibrant red, while the मादा is a फीकी red-brown shade.
The उत्तरी कार्डिनल is मुख्यतः granivorous, लकिन भी फ़ीड्स on कीट and fruit.
The male behaves territorially, अंकन आउट उसके territory साथ song.
During courtship, the पुरूष फ़ीड्स बीज to the मादा beak-to-beak.
a क्लच of तीन to चार अंडे is रखी, और two to four clutches are produced each year.
It was once prized as a pet, but its sale as cage पक्षियों is अभी बैन in the संयुक्त राज्य by the migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918.
Surface runoff, also पुकारा nonpoint सोर्स प्रदूषण, इससे a फार्म फ़ील्ड in Iowa during a rain storm.
Topsoil as well as farm fertilizers and other potential pollutants run बंद unprotected फार्म फ़ील्ड जब भारी rains occur.
topsoil is the अपर, outermost layer of soil, usually the top to.
It has the highest विशेषज्ञता of सशुल्क पदार्थ और microorganisms और is जहाँ सबसे of the Earth 's biological soil activity occurs.
Musical cryptogram : `` Aschbeg '' set in Schoenberg 's sechs kleine klavierstücke, op. 19, no. 1, m. 5.
Note that the notes do not come in स्पेलिंग अनुक्रम लकिन हैं सब सटा ( नहीं अलग by other notes ).
Sechs kleine Klavierstücke, Op. 19 ( or Six Little Piano टुकड़े ) is a नियत of टुकड़े लिये सोलो पियानो लिखा by the आस्ट्रिया composer Arnold Schoenberg, published in 1913.
मैक्एफ़ी, inc. ( ) is an अमरीकी वैश्विक कंप्यूटर सुरक्षा तन्त्र कम्पनी headquartered in सांता क्लारा, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, and the world 's largest dedicated security technology company.
As of February 28, 2011, मैक्एफ़ी is a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of इंटेल.
McAfee 's competitors in the एंटीवायरस उद्योग हैं avira, bitdefender, bullguard, f-secure, frisk, kaspersky, Symantec, and Trend Micro to name a few.
Saint Rita of Cascia ( Born Margherita lotti 1381 - may 22, 1457 ) थी an इतालवी augustinian नन, विधवा और saint venerated in the Roman Catholic Church.
Rita was शादीशुदा at an जल्दी आयु.
The marriage lasted for 18 सालो, दौरान जिससे वो is remembered लिये her Christian values as a model wife and mother who made efforts to convert her husband from his abusive behavior.
Upon the हत्या of उसके husband by another feuding family, she sought to dissuade her sons from revenge.
She subsequently joined an Augustinian community of धार्मिक बहनों, जहाँ वो थी ज्ञात लिये practicing mortification of the flesh, along with the apparent efficacy of her prayers.
St. Rita is venerated due to various miracles attributed to her सिफ़ारिश, और is प्रायः portrayed साथ a bleeding घाव on उसके माथे, जिससे the रोमन Catholic Church claims to have been a partial stigmata.
The Roman Catholic Church, अंतर्गत the pontificate of पोप leo xiii officially canonized रीता on May 24, 1900, while her feast day is celebrated every May 22.
In many pious कैथोलिक देशों, रीता is ज्ञात to be a patroness for abused wives and mourning women.
North America is a continent wholly within the Northern Hemisphere और लगभग wholly भीतर the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध.
It is also considered a उत्तरी उपमहाद्वीप of the americas.
It is bordered to the north by the आर्कटिक समंदर, to the ईस्ट by the अटलांटिक समंदर, to the west and south by the Pacific Ocean, and to the southeast by South America and the Caribbean Sea.
उत्तर अमेरिका कवर an क्षेत्रफल of परिचय 24,709,000 वर्गाकार किलोमीटर ( 9,540,000 वर्गाकार miles ), about 4.8 % of the planet 's surface or about 16.5 % of its land area.
As of July 2008, its population was estimated at nearly 529 million people across 23 independent states, representing परिचय 7.5 % of the इंसान जनसांख्यिकी.
North America is the third-largest continent in area, following Asia and अफ़्रीकी, और the चौथी in जनसांख्यिकी बाद एशिया, अफ़्रीकी, और यूरोपीय.
The first people to live in North America were Paleoindians who began to arrive दौरान the पिछला glacial काल by क्रासिंग the बेरिंग जमीन सेतु.
They differentiated into a number of विविध संस्कृतियों और समुदायों आरपार the महाद्वीप.
The largest and most advanced Pre-Columbian सभ्यताओं in उत्तर अमेरिका यहूद the aztecs in कया is अभी मैक्सिको और the Mayans in Central America.
European colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th and 17th centuries, wiping आउट विशाल संख्याएँ of the देशी populations और शुरूआत an era of यूरोपीय dominance.
Jermaine Lamarr Cole ( born जनवरी 28, 1985 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम J. कोल, is an अमरीकी hip-hop रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार and record producer from Fayetteville, North Carolina.
in 2009, he became the पहला कलाकार to sign to Jay-Z 's Roc Nation label.
His long-awaited डेब्यू एल्बम, हकदार Cole World : The Sideline Story, was released on September 27, 2011.
The album debuted at number one on the US बिलबोर्ड 200, शीर्ष r & b एल्बम और शीर्ष रैप एल्बम चार्ट, selling अधिक than 218,000 in its first week.
He received a नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन नई कलाकार at the 54th Grammy Awards.
The two main characters of the श्रेणी, ratchet ( सही ) and Clank ( left ).
Ratchet & clank is a श्रेणी of platform video games.
The franchise was created and developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for many अलग प्लेस्टेशन consoles, ऐसे as प्लेस्टेशन 2 और प्लेस्टेशन 3 साथ the exclusion of आकार matters और रहस्य एजेंट clank, जिससे यहूद विकसित by ऊँची प्रभाव खेल लिये the PlayStation Portable.
Every game in the series has been released लिये प्रत्येक कंसोल, as the ip is owned by Sony Computer Entertainment.
An animated विशेषता फिल्मी अनुकूलन उत्पादित by rainmaker entertainment और नाकेबंदी Entertainment is scheduled for a theatrical release sometime in 2015.
The games take place in a science fiction setting and follow the adventures of Ratchet ( an animalistic human-like character known as a Lombax, who is a मैकेनिक ) और clank ( a diminutive, sentient रोबोट ) as वे सफर through the ब्रह्मांड, छायांकन it इससे दुष्ट शक्तियां on a regular basis.
The series is noted for the inclusion of अनेक exotic और अद्वितीय, over the शीर्ष हथियार और डिवाइस, a अवधारणा कि insomniac Games also expanded into their other games.
A will or testament is a legal declaration by which a person, the testator, names एक or अधिक व्यक्तियों to मैनेज his/her estate and provides for the transfer of his property at death.
For the devolution of प्रॉपर्टी नहीं disposed of by will, see inheritance and intestacy.
In the strictest sense, a `` होगा '' रै historically महरूम सीमित to रियल प्रॉपर्टी जबकि `` वसीयत '' applies तभी to dispositions of personal property ( thus giving rise to the popular title of the document as `` Last Will and Testament '' ), though this distinction is seldom observed today.
A will may also create a testamentary trust कि is प्रभावी तभी बाद the मौत of the testator.
The 19.9 mw gemasolar सौर संयंत्र in स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day.
Solar energy, रौशन लाइट और ऊष्मा इससे the सूर्य, रै महरूम harnessed by इंसानो since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies.
Solar energy technologies include solar हीटिंग, सौर photovoltaics, सौर थर्मल विद्युत, सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis, which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces.
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or क्रियाशील सौर depending on the रास्ता वे कैप्चर, बदलें और वितरित सौर energy.
Active solar तकनीकों शामिल the उपयोग of photovoltaic panels और सौर thermal collectors to harness the energy.
Passive solar techniques शामिल orienting a भवन to the सूर्य, selecting सामग्री साथ अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or light dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate air.
in 2011, the अंतरराष्ट्रीय उर्जा एजेंसी कहा कि `` the विकास of सस्ती, inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits.
It will increase countries’ energy security through रिलायंस on an स्वदेशी, inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन, बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता, reduce प्रदूषण, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise.
These लाभ हैं वैश्विक.
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning investments ; they जरूर be बुद्धिमानी खर्च और need to be widely साझा ''.
Sir Thomas More ( ; 7 February 14786 July 1535 ), known to Roman Catholics as संत थामस अधिक चूंकि 1935, थी an अंग्रेज़ी वकील, सोशल पारस, author, statesman, and noted Renaissance humanist.
He was an important पार्षद to हेनरी viii of इंग्लैण्ड और थी रब Chancellor from October 1529 to 16 May 1532.
He was canonized by Pope Pius XI in 1935 as एक of the जल्दी शहीदो of the schism कि अलग the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे Rome in the 16th century.
In 2000, Pope जॉन पॉल ii घोषित उसे संरक्षक of कैथोलिक statesmen and politicians.
More was an opponent of the Protestant Reformation, in particular of मार्टिन लूथर और विलियम टिंडेल.
However, since 1980, he is भी commemorated by the गिरिजाघर of England as a reformation martyr.
More coined the word `` utopia `` – a name he दिया to the आदर्श और काल्पनिक द्वीप स्वदेश, the राजनैतिक प्रणाली of जिससे he वर्णित in Utopia, published in 1516.
He opposed the King 's विरह इससे the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और refused to accept उसे as परम् सिर of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड, a title which had been given by parliament through the Act of Supremacy of 1534.
He was imprisoned in 1534 for his refusal to take the oath required by the First उत्तराधिकार अधिनियम, क्युकी the अधिनियम disparaged papal प्राधिकार और henry’s विवाह to कैथरीन of aragon.
In 1535, he थी आजमाया लिये देशद्रोह, convicted on perjured गवाही, and beheaded.
More भी helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at लोभी '' to mean `` desperately trying even useless things '', in his Dialogue of Comfort Against Tribulation.
Intellectuals and कूटनीतिज्ञों आरपार यूरोपीय were stunned by More 's execution.
Erasmus saluted him as एक `` जिनकी आत्मा थी अधिक pure than कोई हिम, जिनकी प्रतिभाशाली थी ऐसे कि इंग्लैण्ड never had and never again will have its like ''.
There was a अधिक विवादास्पद पक्ष to अधिक 's जीवन, क्युकी he advocated the persecution और निष्पादन of Protestants who refused to recant their faith.
However, the judgement of history has been largely willing to forgive इस in लाइट of the टाइम्स he जिया in और उसके शहादत in the रोमन कैथोलिक कारण.
Two centuries later Jonathan Swift said More was `` the person of the महानतम पुण्य इस किंगडम कभी उत्पादित '', a भावना साथ जिससे सैमुएल Johnson agreed.
Historian Hugh Trevor-Roper said in 1977 that More was `` the पहला ग्रेट अंग्रेज जिसको we महसूस कि we जान, the सबसे saintly of humanists, the most human of saints, the universal man of our cool northern renaissance. ''
Captain Nemo, also known as प्रिंस dakkar, is a fictional अक्षर invented by the French science fiction author Jules Verne.
Nemo appears in two of Verne 's novels, Twenty Thousand Leagues अंतर्गत the समुद्र ( 1870 ) और the रहस्यमय द्वीप ( 1874 ), और makes a कैमियो रूप in वर्न 's play Journey Through the Impossible ( 1882 ).
Nemo, one of the most famous antiheroes in fiction, is a रहस्यमय figure.
The son of an Indian Raja, he is a वैज्ञानिक प्रतिभाशाली जो roams the गहराइयों of the समुद्र in उसके पनडुब्बी, the Nautilus, which was built on a deserted island.
Nemo tries to project a stern, controlled विश्वास, लकिन he is चलित by a प्यास लिये प्रतिशोध और a द्वेष of साम्राज्यवाद ( particularly the British Empire ).
He is also wracked by पछतावा over the मौतों of उसके क्रू सदस्यों और भी by the मौतों of enemy sailors.
Nemo has appeared in various adaptations of वर्न 's novels, सहित films, जहाँ he रै महरूम portrayed by a number of different actors.
He has furthermore been अपनाया by अन्य लेखक लिये समावेश in उनके novels, सबसे notably in Alan Moore 's The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen and Philip José Farmer 's The Other Log of Phileas Fogg.
Listed below are the Major लीग बेसबॉल टीमों साथ the बेहतरीन ऋतु won-lost रिकॉर्ड in इतिहास, as determined by winning percentage (.700 or better ), minimum 120 games played.
ध्वनिक coupler modem
A modem ( modulator-demodulator ) is a यंत्र कि modulates an एनालॉग वाहक सिग्नल to encode digital information, and also demodulates such a carrier signal to decode the transmitted information.
The goal is to produce a signal that can be transmitted easily और decoded to reproduce the original digital data.
Modems can be used over any means of transmitting analog signals, इससे लाइट emitting diodes to रेडियो.
The most familiar example is a आवाज़ बैंड मॉडेम कि turns the डिजिटल आंकड़ा of a निजी कंप्यूटर into modulated विद्युत सिग्नल in the voice frequency range of a telephone channel.
These सिग्नल can be transmitted over टेलीफोन लाइनों और demodulated by another modem at the receiver side to recover the digital data.
Modems are generally classified by the amount of data they can भेजें in a दिए ईकाई of समय, प्रायः expressed in बिट्स प्रति दूसरी ( bit/s, or bps ), or bytes per second ( B/s ).
Modems can alternatively be वर्गीकृत by उनके प्रतीक रेट, measured in baud.
The baud unit denotes symbols per second, or the क्रमांक of टाइम्स प्रति दूसरी the मॉडेम भेजना a new signal.
For example, the ITU V.21 standard used audio frequency shift keying with two possible बारंबारता सम्बन्धित to दो पृथक प्रतीकों ( or एक बिट per symbol ), to carry 300 bits per second using 300 baud.
By contrast, the original ITU V.22 standard, which was समर्थ to संचारण और प्राप्त चार पृथक प्रतीकों ( दो बिट्स per symbol ), handled 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 symbols per second ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying.
The घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता is a बयान अपनाया by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4, 1776, जिससे घोषित कि the तेरह American colonies, then at war with Great Britain, regarded themselves as independent states, and no longer a part of the British Empire.
Instead they now formed a नई nation—the संयुक्त States of America.
John Adams was a leader in pushing for independence, जिससे थी unanimously स्वीकृत on July 2.
A कमेटी था already drafted the formal declaration, to be ready when congress voted on independence.
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to compose the original draft of the document, जिससे कॉंग्रेस होता संपादन to उपज the फाइनल संस्करण.
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of why Congress had voted on July 2 to declare स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन, अधिक than a साल बाद the outbreak of the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी War.
The national birthday, the स्वतंत्रता दिन is मनाये on जुलाई 4, हालांकि Adams wanted July 2.
After ratifying the टेक्स्ट on जुलाई 4, कॉंग्रेस जारी the Declaration of Independence in several forms.
it थी initially प्रकाशित as the मुद्रित डनलप broadside कि was widely distributed and read to the public.
The most famous version of the Declaration, a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता, is प्रदर्शित at the नेशनल अभिलेख in वॉशिंगटन, D.C.
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved on July 4, the तिथि of इसके हस्ताक्षर थी अगस्त 2.
The original July 4 United States Declaration of स्वतंत्रता पाण्डुलिपि थी खोया जबकि सब अन्य नक़ल have been derived from this original document.
The sources and निर्वचन of the घोषणा have महरूम the विषय of much scholarly inquiry.
The Declaration justified the independence of the संयुक्त राज्य by लिस्टिंग औपनिवेशिक grievances विरूद्ध किंग जार्ज iii, और by asserting certain natural and legal rights, including a right of revolution.
Having served its original purpose in announcing स्वतंत्रता, the टेक्स्ट of the घोषणा was initially ignored after the American Revolution.
Since then, it has come to be माना a प्रमुख बयान on इंसान rights, particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are निर्मित बराबर, कि वे हैं endowed by उनके निर्माता साथ निश्चित unalienable अधिकारों, कि among ये हैं जीवन, स्वतंत्रता और the pursuit of Happiness.
This has been called `` one of the best-known sentences in the English language '', containing `` the सबसे potent और consequential शब्द in अमरीकी इतिहास. ''
The passage came to represent a moral standard to जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य चाहिए नीयत.
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln, who माना the घोषणा to be the न्यास of उसके राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र, और argued कि the घोषणा is a statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted.
It रै प्रेरित कार्य लिये the अधिकारों of अधिकारहीन people throughout the world.
The अर्थव्यवस्था of ग्रीनलैंड can be characterized as small, mixed and vulnerable.
The present economy consists of a big public sector and comprehensive foreign trade, which has resulted in an economy with periods of strong growth, considerable महंगाई, बेरोजगारी समस्याएं और चरम dependence on पूंजी inflow इससे डेनमार्क और उपयोग of बाहर, मुख्यतः डैनिश, skilled labor.
GDP per capita is similar to the average European economies but the economy is critically निर्भर upon substantial support इससे the डैनिश सरकारी, जिससे आपूर्तियाँ परिचय हाफ the revenues of the घर नियम सरकारी जो in turn employ about 8,000 Greenlanders out of a labor force of 40,156 ( Jan. 2012 ).
Unemployment nonetheless remains high, with the बाकी of the अर्थव्यवस्था निर्भर upon माँग लिये exports of shrimp and fish.
Hydrogen is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक h और atomic number 1.
With an atomic weight of ( for hydrogen-1 ), हाइड्रोजन is the lightest तत्व और इसके monatomic रूप ( h1 ) is the सबसे abundant रासायनिक पदार्थ, constituting roughly 75 % of the Universe 's baryonic mass.
Non- remnant stars are mainly composed of हाइड्रोजन in इसके प्लाज्मा राज्य.
At standard temperature and pressure, hydrogen is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, nonmetallic, अत्यधिक combustible diatomic गैस साथ the आणविक सूत्र H2.
Most of the hydrogen on Earth is in अणुओं ऐसे as जल और सशुल्क यौगिकों क्युकी hydrogen readily forms covalent compounds with most non-metallic elements.
Hydrogen plays a particularly important role in acid-base रसायन साथ अनेक प्रतिक्रियाएँ exchanging protons between घुलनशील molecules.
In ionic यौगिकों, it can लो a ऋणात्मक चार्ज ( an anion ज्ञात as a हाइड्राइड and written as H− ), or as a positively charged species H+.
The latter cation is लिखा as हालांकि रचित of a bare प्रोटॉन, लकिन in वास्तविकता, hydrogen cations in ionic compounds always occur as more complex species.
The most आम समस्थानिक of हाइड्रोजन is protium ( नाम rarely used, symbol 1H ) with a single proton and no neutrons.
As the simplest atom ज्ञात, the हाइड्रोजन अणु रै महरूम of सैद्धांतिक use.
लिये उदाहरण, as the तभी न्यूट्रल अणु साथ an analytic समाधान to the श्रोडिंगर equation, the study of the energetics and bonding of the hydrogen atom played a key role in the development of quantum mechanics.
Hydrogen gas was first artificially produced in the जल्दी 16th सदी, via the mixing of metals with acids.
In 1766–81, Henry Cavendish was the first to recognize that hydrogen gas was a discrete substance, and that it produces water when burned, a प्रॉपर्टी जिससे बाद दिया it इसके नाम : in यूनानी, हाइड्रोजन अर्थात् `` water-former ''.
Industrial production is mainly from the steam reforming of प्राकृतिक गैस, और कम प्रायः इससे अधिक energy-intensive हाइड्रोजन production methods like the electrolysis of water.
Most hydrogen is employed near its production site, with the two largest उपयोग होने चट्टान ईंधन प्रसंस्करण ( e.g., hydrocracking ) और अमोनिया उत्पादन, ज़्यादातर लिये the उर्वरक मार्केट.
Hydrogen is a concern in metallurgy as it can embrittle अनेक धातुओं, complicating the डिज़ाइन of pipelines और storage tanks.
Unstoppable is a 2010 American action थ्रिलर फिल्मी निर्देशित by टोनी स्कॉट, लिखा by चिह्नित Bomback, and starring Denzel Washington and Chris Pine.
The film, loosely based on the real-life csx 8888 घटना, tells the स्टोरी of a runaway भाड़ा ट्रैन, और the two men ( Washington and Pine ) who manage to stop it.
It थी स्कॉट 's फाइनल विशेषता film before his death in 2012.
The film was released in the United States and Canada on November 12, 2010, और in the संयुक्त किंगडम on नवम्बर 24, 2010.
It प्राप्त ज़्यादातर अनुकूल समीक्षाएँ इससे फिल्मी आलोचकों ; it garnered a `` certified भैस '' दरजा on Rotten Tomatoes based upon aggregated reviews and a rating of `` Generally favorable reviews '' at Metacritic.
The film was nominated for an Academy Award लिये बेहतरीन ध्वनि संपादन at the 83rd अकादमी पुरस्कार, लकिन खोया to inception.
In photography, bracketing is the general तकनीक of लेने अनेक गोलियाँ of the वही विषय using different camera settings.
Bracketing is useful and often recommended in परिस्थितियों कि मेक it मुश्किल to obtain a संतोषजनक चित्र साथ a सिंगल शॉट, especially when a small variation in exposure parameters has a comparatively large effect on the resulting image.
Autobracketing is automatic bracketing by using a सेटिंग on the कैमरा to take several bracketed shots ( in contrast to the photographer altering the settings by hand between each shot ).
दिए the समय it takes to accomplish अनेक गोलियाँ, it is typically, but not always, used for static subjects.
Insulated glazing ( IG ), more commonly known as double glazing ( or double-pane, and increasingly triple glazing/pane ) हैं दोगुना or ट्रिपल कांच खिड़की panes अलग by an एयर or other gas filled space to reduce heat transfer across a part of the building envelope.
Insulated Glass इकाई हैं manufactured साथ कांच in दायरा of thickness from 3 mm to 10 mm or more in special applications.
Laminated or tempered कांच may भी be प्रयुक्त as भाग of the construction.
Most units are manufactured साथ the वही मोटाई of कांच प्रयुक्त on दोनो panes लकिन खास अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as ध्वनिक क्षीणन or security may require wide ranges of thicknesses to be incorporated in the same unit.
A sectioned आरेख of a फिक्स्ड insulated चमकीले ईकाई ( igu ), indicating the numbering convention used in this article.
Surface # 1 is facing बाहर, सतह # 2 is the अंदर सतह of the exterior फलक, सतह # 3 is the बाहर surface of the interior pane, and Surface # 4 is the inside surface of interior pane.
The window frame is labelled # 5, a spacer is indicated as # 6, seals are दिखाया in रेड ( # 7 ), the आतंरिक खुलासा is on the सही हाथ side ( # 8 ) and the exterior windowsill on the left ( # 9 )
To reduce shear effects on the sealed unit ( a major cause of premature failure ), निर्माताओं उपयोग a नियम of अंगूठा कि permits a अंतर of 1 mm between the मोटाई of the panes of glass used in the unit and still maintain the warranty for the unit.
For example, a unit may be ordered with a 4 mm फलक on the exterior और a 3 mm फलक on the interior.
These विसंगतियाँ हैं अनुमत लिये architectural and cost reasons.
Other combinations can be specified and produced but the manufacturer may आरक्षित the सही to सीमा the पद of the वारंटी or इंकार to वारंटी the unit altogether.
For ease of description the surfaces of a double paned unit are named according to the following convention : Surface # 1 ( facing outside ), Surface # 2 ( inside of बाहर फलक ), सतह # 3 ( बाहर of अंदर फलक ) और सतह # 4 ( अंदर सतह of अंदर pane ).
Applying the सम्बन्धित नामकरण लिये ट्रिपल paned units results in surfaces # 1 through # 6.
The performance of insulating glazing can be परिवर्धित through the उपयोग of the following:
A typical संस्थापना of insulated glazing खिड़कियाँ साथ upvc window frames.
Selenium is a chemical element साथ प्रतीक se और परमाणु क्रमांक 34.
it is a अधातु साथ गुण कि हैं इंटरमीडिएट between those of its periodic table column-adjacent chalcogen elements sulfur and tellurium.
it rarely occurs in इसके elemental राज्य in nature, or as pure ore compounds.
Selenium ( Greek σελήνη selene meaning `` चंद्रमा '' ) थी खोजा in 1817 by jöns याक़ूब berzelius, जो विख्यात the समानता of the नई तत्व to the previously-known tellurium ( named for the Earth ).
सेलेनियम is मिला impurely in मेटल sulfide ores, where it partially replaces the sulfur.
Commercially, सेलेनियम is उत्पादित as a byproduct in the refining of these ores, most often during copper production.
Minerals that हैं pure selenide or selenate compounds are known, but are rare.
The chief commercial uses for selenium आज हैं in glassmaking और in pigments.
Selenium is a सेमीकंडक्टर और is प्रयुक्त in photocells.
Uses in electronics, once important, have been ज़्यादातर supplanted by सिलिकॉन सेमीकंडक्टर devices.
Selenium continues to be used in a few types of DC शक्ति surge protectors और एक प्रकार of fluorescent क्वांटम dot.
Selenium salts are toxic in large amounts, but trace amounts हैं जरुरी लिये सेल्यूलर function in many organisms, including all animals.
Selenium is a component of the antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase और thioredoxin reductase ( जिससे indirectly reduce निश्चित oxidized molecules in animals and some plants ).
it is भी मिला in तीन deiodinase एंजाइमों, जिससे बदलें one thyroid hormone to another.
Selenium requirements in plants differ by प्रजाति, साथ कुछ पौधे requiring अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts, और अन्य जाहिर requiring none.
The United States presidential election of 2008 was the 56th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय election.
It was held on मंगलवार, नवम्बर 4, 2008.
Democrat Barack Obama, then the junior Senator from इलिनोइस, पराजित रिपब्लिकन जॉन मैक्केन, the वरिष्ठ Senator from Arizona.
As the campaign progressed, the War in Iraq and outgoing रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश था become increasingly unpopular, और the major-party उम्मीदवार ran on a platform of change and reform.
Domestic policy और the अर्थव्यवस्था आखिरकार उभरा as the प्रमुख विषयवस्तु in the पिछला few महीने of the election campaign after the onset of the worst recession since the 1930s.
Obama would go on to win a निर्णायक विजय over मैक्केन in दोनो the चुनावी and popular vote.
Obama received the most votes for a presidential candidate in American history, and won the popular and electoral vote by the largest margin in 12 सालो, as खूब as the largest प्रतिशत of the लोकप्रिय vote लिये a Democrat in nearly a half-century.
इस थी the पहला u.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव in जिससे an अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी थी निर्वाचित, having भी महरूम the first in which an African American won the nomination of either major party.
This election was also notable for being the first time in U.S. history that both major party candidates were sitting U.S. Senators, only the तीसरा समय ( बाद 1920 और 1960 ) कि कोई बैठे u.s. सीनेटर was elected president, and only the second time that the winning President and Vice President ( Obama and Biden ) were both sitting U.S. Senators.
This was also the first election since 1952 in which neither of the प्रमुख पार्टियों ' नामांकित थी the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष or वाइस अध्यक्ष.
The Sovereign Prince or राजकुमारी of मोनाको is the reigning monarch और head of state of the Principality of Monaco.
All princes or princesses have officially taken the name of the House of grimaldi, लकिन have belonged to विभिन्न अन्य घरों ( goyon de matignon, polignac ) in पुरूष लकीर.
The reigning प्रिंस is Albert II.
कल्पना of fragmentation and then of defragmentation
In the maintenance of संचिका प्रणालियों, defragmentation is a प्रक्रम कि reduces the amount of fragmentation.
It does this by physically organizing the सामग्री of the द्रव्यमान भंडार यंत्र प्रयुक्त to स्टोर फाइलें into the smallest number of contiguous regions ( fragments ).
It also attempts to बनाएँ larger regions of फ़्री स्पेस using compaction to impede the return of fragmentation.
Some defragmentation utilities try to keep smaller फाइलें भीतर a सिंगल निर्देशिका साथ, as they are often accessed in sequence.
defragmentation is लाभदायक और प्रासंगिक to संचिका प्रणालियों on electromechanical disk drives.
The movement of the hard drive 's read/write heads over different areas of the disk when accessing fragmented files is slower, compared to accessing the संपूर्ण सामग्री of a non-fragmented संचिका sequentially बगैर चलती the read/write heads to तलाश other fragments.
a service-level अनुबंध ( sla ) is a भाग of a service contract where a service is formally defined.
In अभ्यास, the पद sla is sometimes प्रयुक्त to refer to the contracted delivery time ( of the service or performance ).
As an example, internet service providers will commonly include service level समझौतों भीतर the शर्तें of उनके अनुबंध साथ ग्राहक to define the level ( s ) of service being sold in plain language terms.
In this case the SLA will typically have a technical definition in terms of mean समय between असफलताओं ( mtbf ), औसत समय to मरम्मत or औसत समय to रिकवरी ( mttr ) ; विभिन्न आंकड़ा rates ; throughput ; jitter ; or similar measurable details.
संघ स्टेशन is a पूर्व खरीदारी मॉल in संघ नगर, Georgia, in southwest metro Atlanta adjacent to Interstate 85.
After new ownership and renovations in 2006, the नाम थी बदला इससे शैनन southpark Mall in 2007 to Union Station Mall.
A पिछला नवीकरण थी किया in the late 1990s.
The mall has महरूम बंद चूंकि नवम्बर 2010.
This map shows the contiguous United States and, in insets at the निम्नतर बाएँ, the दो states that are not contiguous.
The contiguous United States are the 48 adjoining u.S. राज्य on the महाद्वीप of उत्तर अमेरिका कि हैं दक्षिण of कनाडा और उत्तर of मैक्सिको, plus the District of Columbia.
The term excludes the states of Alaska and Hawaii, and all off-shore u.S. territories और possessions, such as Puerto Rico.
साथ, the 48 संलग्न राज्य और d.C. occupy a combined area of, which is 1.58 % of the total surface area of the Earth.
Of this, is land, composing 83.65 % of U.S. land area.
Officially, is water area, composing 62.66 % of the स्वदेश 's जल area.
The 2010 census population was 306,675,006, composing 99.33 % of the nation 's जनसांख्यिकी, और a घनत्व of 103.639 inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ), compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2 ) लिये the nation as a whole.
`` Why '' is the शीर्षक of a सोंग अंकित by अमरीकी country band Rascal Flatts.
It is the third सिंगल इससे उनके छठे स्टुडियो album, Unstoppable.
It was released to रेडियो स्टेशन on सितंबर 29, 2009 और debuted at # 44 on the u.s. बिलबोर्ड us Billboard Hot Country Songs chart for the week of October 10, 2009.
It was written by रोब mathes और एलन Shamblin.
Utilization management is the evaluation of the appropriateness, medical need and efficiency of स्वास्थ्य परवाह सेवाएं प्रक्रियाओं और सुविधाएं according to स्थापित मापदण्ड or दिशानिर्देश and under the provisions of an applicable health benefits plan.
typically it शामिल नई क्रियाएँ or निर्णय आधारित upon the analysis of a case.
Utilization management describes proactive प्रक्रियाओं, सहित निर्वहन नियोजन, संयुक्त नियोजन, pre-certification और clinical case appeals.
It also covers proactive processes, such as संयुक्त नैदानिक समीक्षाएँ और पीर समीक्षाएँ, as खूब as appeals introduced by the provider, payer or patient.
As pre-certification and concurrent review of मामले grew, utilization प्रबन्धन spun आउट of utilization review.
While not synonymous, स्वास्थ्य परवाह पेशेवर tend to उपयोग the terms as interchangeable.
The अंतर is utilization प्रबन्धन is और intends to मैनेज स्वास्थ्य परवाह मामले efficiently और लागत effectively पहले और दौरान health care administration.
Utilization review is more considering whether स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी appropriately लागू बाद it was administered.
There are चार मौलिक तकनीकों in utilization management:
Demand प्रबन्धन
utilization पुनर्विलोकन
Case प्रबन्धन
बीमारी प्रबन्धन
The Outsiders is a coming-of-age अनोखा by S. E. hinton, पहला प्रकाशित in 1967 by viking दबायें.
Hinton थी 15 जब वो प्रारंभ लिखने the अनोखा, लकिन किया सबसे of the कार्य when she was sixteen and a junior in high school.
Hinton थी 18 जब the किताब थी published.
The book follows two rival groups, the Greasers and the socs ( सुनाया by the लेखक as, छोटी लिये socials ), जो are divided by their socioeconomic status.
The book takes place in Tulsa, Oklahoma, in 1965, लकिन it is never stated in the किताब.
A film adaptation was produced in 1983, and a little-known short-lived टेलीविज़न श्रेणी appeared in 1990, picking up जहाँ the फिल्म left off.
the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि is one of the two houses of the United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ).
It is अक्सर referred to as the House.
The other हाउस is the सीनेट.
The composition and powers of the House are स्थापित in आलेख एक of the संयुक्त राज्य Constitution.
the प्रमुख शक्ति of the हाउस is to pass संघीय विधान कि affects the संपूर्ण देश हालांकि इसके बिल्स जरूर भी be passed by the सीनेट और further सहमत to by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless both the House and Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ).
The House has several विशेष शक्तियां : the शक्ति to initiate आय बिल्स, to impeach officials, and to elect the U.S. President in case there is no majority in the Electoral College.
Each U.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to its जनसांख्यिकी लकिन is हकदार to at तनिक एक प्रतिनिधि.
The most populous state, कैलिफ़ोर्निया, फिलहाल रै 53 representatives.
The total number of voting प्रतिनिधि is fixed by law at 435.
Each प्रतिनिधि serves लिये a two-year term.
The Speaker of the United States House of प्रतिनिधि, जो presides over the कक्ष, is निर्वाचित by the सदस्यों of the House, and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference, whichever party has more voting members.
The House meets in the south wing of the संयुक्त राज्य Capitol.
A supply chain is actually a जटिल और डायनेमिक सप्लाई and demand network.
( cf. wieland/wallenburg, 2011 )
A supply chain is a system of organizations, people, activities, information, and संसाधन शामिल in चलती a उत्पाद or सेवा इससे supplier to customer.
Supply chain activities transform प्राकृतिक संसाधन, कच्चा सामग्री, और components into a समाप्त product that is delivered to the end customer.
In sophisticated supply chain systems, used products may re-enter the supply कड़ी at कोई पाइंट जहाँ अवशेष मान is recyclable.
Supply जंजीरों कड़ी मान जंजीरों.
`` Purple Haze '' is a song written and अंकित by जिमि हेंड्रिक्स in 1967, released as the दूसरी सिंगल by The Jimi Hendrix Experience in both the United Kingdom and the United States.
It later appeared on the अमरीकी संस्करण of the बैंड 's 1967 एल्बम हैं तुम अनुभवी.
`` जामुनी haze '' रै become one of the `` archetypical psychedelic drug songs of the sixties ''.
`` Purple haze 's '' गिटार virtuosic तकनीकों होता be emulated by many metal guitarists.
A close up चित्र of a rhinoceros skin.
Skin is the soft outer covering of vertebrates.
Other animal coverings ऐसे as the सन्धिपाद बहि have अलग developmental origin, structure and chemical composition.
the क्रियाशील cutaneous अर्थात् `` of the skin '' ( from Latin cutis, skin ).
In mammals, the skin is the largest organ of the integumentary system made up of अनेक परतों of ectodermal ऊतक, और गार्ड the underlying मांसपेशियां, हड्डियों, ligaments और आतंरिक organs.
Skin of a different nature exists in amphibians, सरीसृपों, और birds.
All स्तनधारियों have कुछ बाल on उनके स्किन, भी समुद्री स्तनधारियों which appear to be hairless.
The स्किन अंतरफलक साथ the पर्यावरण और is the पहला line of defense from external factors.
For example, the स्किन plays a कुंजी भूमिका in protecting the देह विरूद्ध pathogens and excessive water loss.
Its other functions are insulation, तापमान विनियमन, सनसनी, और the उत्पादन of विटामिन d folates.
Severely damaged skin may चंगा by forming scar tissue.
This is sometimes discoloured और depigmented.
The thickness of skin भी varies इससे स्थान to स्थान on an सजीव.
In humans for example, the skin located under the eyes and around the eyelids is the thinnest स्किन in the देह at 0.5 mm मोटा, और is एक of the पहला क्षेत्रों to दिखाएँ signs of aging such as `` crows feet '' and wrinkles.
The स्किन on the हथेलियां और the सोल्स of the फीट is 4 mm thick and the thickest skin in the body.
Fur is घना बाल.
Primarily, fur augments the इन्सुलेशन the स्किन provides लकिन can भी serve as a द्वितीयक sexual characteristic or as camouflage.
On some animals, the स्किन is बहुत मुश्किल और मोटा, और can be processed to create leather.
Reptiles और मछली have मुश्किल सुरक्षात्मक तराजू on उनके स्किन लिये सुरक्षा, और birds have hard feathers, all made of tough β- keratins.
Amphibian skin is नहीं a दमदार अवरोध to ड्योढ़ी of chemicals and is often subject to osmosis and diffusive forces.
लिये उदाहरण, a मेंढक बैठे in an anesthetic समाधान होता be sedated quickly, as the chemical diffuses through its skin.
थामस स्कॉट
The Rev. Thomas Scott ( 1747-1821 ) was an influential उपदेशक और लेखक जो is प्रधानतया ज्ञात लिये उसके best-selling कार्य a commentary on the पूरे बाइबल and The Force of Truth, and as one of the founders of the Church Missionary Society.
डेनियल radcliffe, जो portrays हैरी कुम्हार, has been the icon of the film series since the release of the first film in 2001.
Some of the most renowned actors of the संयुक्त किंगडम और आयरलैंड have voiced or portrayed वर्ण appearing in the Harry Potter film series based on the book series by J. K. Rowling.
Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson have निभाई हैरी कुम्हार, रॉन वीज़्ली और हर्माइनी ग्रेंजर in सब the films.
जब वे यहूद डाल तभी radcliffe had previously acted in a film.
Complementing them on screen are such actors as Helena Bonham Carter, Jim Broadbent, John Cleese, Robbie Coltrane, Warwick Davis, Ralph Fiennes, माइकल gambon, ब्रेंडन gleeson, रिचर्ड ग्रीफिथ, रिचर्ड हैरिस, जॉन ठेस, जेसन isaacs, miriam margolyes, हेलेन mccrory, गेरी oldman, Alan Rickman, Fiona Shaw, Maggie Smith, Timothy Spall, Imelda Staunton, David Thewlis, Emma Thompson, and Julie Walters, among others.
Thirteen actors have appeared as the same अक्षर in सब आठ films of the मताधिकार.
Some well-known British actors who have not appeared in the श्रेणी, हैं पूछा in jest क्यों वे have not been cast.
When David Yates was directing the पांचवां फिल्मी, विधेयक nighy, जो था previously collaborated साथ येट्स on तीन of उसके टेलीविज़न प्रोजेक्ट, said that he joked with Yates that maybe now he would n't be the only actor in England who had n't been in Harry Potter.
`` लकिन nobody पुकारा '', Nighy added.
But in 2009, Yates cast nighy as मंत्री of जादू rufus scrimgeour in Deathly Hallows.
Nighy said, `` I am no longer the only English actor not to be in हैरी कुम्हार और i am बहुत प्रसन्न. ''
jude विधि रै quipped, `` Nobody 's asked me.
i थी a बिट too बूढ़ा for Harry ''.
When a reporter compared potions professor Horace Slughorn 's obsession with famous names to the series ' connection to `` प्रत्येक notable अंग्रेजों कर्ता, '' जिम broadbent, जो plays slughorn कहा, `` खूब, नहीं every actor gets invited.
I जान कुछ जो हैं स्टिल waiting. ''
With the exception of Chris Columbus, each director रै था a कैमियो रूप in उसके संबंधित फिल्मी : अलफोंसो cuarón appears as a जादूगर पकड़कर a मोमबत्ती दौरान a झाँकी at the तीन broomsticks in कैदी of azkaban ; माइक newell is सुना briefly as the radio presenter in Frank Bryce 's house in Goblet of Fire ; and David Yates features as a wizard within a magical moving portrait in Order of the Phoenix.
Producer David Heyman भी makes a कैमियो रूप as a जादूगर प्रदर्शित भीतर a जादुई चलती portrait in the third film, Prisoner of Azkaban.
J. K. Rowling दिया a वाक दौरान the संसार प्रीमियर of the फाइनल फिल्मी in the series— Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 —on 7 July 2011 in London, England.
She announced that she could never have dreamt of the प्रतिभाशाली actors and actresses who have appeared in all the Harry Potter movies.
Rowling also announced that there are सात हैरी कुम्हार फिल्मी श्रेणी डाल सदस्यों, जो वो refers to as `` the बिग सात '', वे are Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson, Tom Felton, Matthew Lewis, Evanna Lynch and Bonnie Wright.
The list below is sorted by फिल्मी और अक्षर, as कुछ वर्ण have been portrayed by multiple actors.
कुंजी
( v ) indicates the कर्ता or अभिनेत्री lent only his or her voice for his or her film character
( y ) indicates the actor or actress portrayed the भूमिका in a फ्लैशबैक झाँकी or जब the character was young.
( f ) indicates the actor or actress did not appear in कोई नई फुटेज लिये the फिल्मी ; फुटेज इससे an पहले film or films was used.
A लाइट धूसर कोशिका ( ऐसे as the एक in the `` दान burbage '' पंक्ति in the `` Philosopher 's Stone '' column ) indicates the character was not in the film adaptation.
A twelve-step program is a set of guiding principles ( accepted by members as 'spiritual principles, ' आधारित on the स्वीकृत साहित्य ) outlining a कोर्स of कार्रवाई लिये रिकवरी इससे, मजबूरी, or other behavioral problems.
Originally proposed by Alcoholics Anonymous ( AA ) as a method of recovery from alcoholism, the Twelve कदम यहूद पहला प्रकाशित in the किताब alcoholics बेनाम : the स्टोरी of कैसा अधिक than एक सौ Men Have Recovered from Alcoholism in 1939.
The method was then adapted और became the न्यास of अन्य twelve-step programs.
As summarized by the अमरीकी मनोवैज्ञानिक Association, the process involves the following:
admitting that one can नहीं कंट्रोल एक 's व्यसन or compulsion ;
recognizing a उच्चतर शक्ति कि can दे शक्ति ;
examining past errors with the help of a प्रायोजक ( अनुभवी सदस्य ) ;
बनाना amends लिये ये errors ;
learning to सजीव a नई जीवन साथ a new code of behavior ;
helping others who suffer from the same व्यसनों or compulsions.
Witness impeachment, in the law of प्रमाण of the संयुक्त राज्य, is the प्रक्रम of कॉलिंग into सवाल the विश्वसनीयता of an individual who is testifying in a trial.
The Federal नियम of प्रमाण contain the नियम शासी impeachment in federal courts.
Party leaders and whips of the United States House of Representatives are elected by their संबंधित पार्टियों in a closed-door caucus by रहस्य बैलट और हैं भी ज्ञात as floor leaders.
The U.S. House of Representatives करता नहीं officially उपयोग the पद `` अल्पसंख्यक नेता '' हालांकि the मीडिया अक्सर do.
The House instead uses the terms `` Republican Leader '' or `` Democratic नेता '' depending on जिससे पार्टी holds a अल्पसंख्यक of सीटे.
The current House Majority Leader is रिपब्लिकन eric cantor, जबकि the वर्तमान हाउस अल्पसंख्यक नेता is Democrat Nancy Pelosi.
The current House Majority Whip is Republican Kevin McCarthy, जबकि the वर्तमान हाउस अल्पसंख्यक चाबुक is Democrat Steny Hoyer.
Following the outbreak of World War I in 1914, the जर्मनी फौज खोली the पश्चिमी सामने by पहला आक्रमणकारी ध्वज और बेल्जियम, then gaining military control of important industrial regions in France.
The tide of the advance was dramatically turned साथ the बैटल of the Marne.
following the रेस to the समुद्र, दोनो पहलू खोदा in साथ a meandering लकीर of fortified trenches, stretching from the North Sea to the Swiss frontier with France.
This line remained essentially अपरिवर्तित लिये सबसे of the war.
Between 1915 and 1917 there were अनेक प्रमुख offensives साथ इस सामने.
The हमले employed विशाल तोपखाने bombardments and massed infantry advances.
However, a संयोजन of entrenchments, यंत्र गन nests, कंटीले तार, and artillery repeatedly inflicted severe casualties on the attackers and counterattacking defenders.
As a result, no significant अग्रिम यहूद made.
Among the सबसे costly of ये offensives यहूद the बैटल of verdun साथ a संयुक्त [ अनुमानित ] 700,000 मुर्दे, the बैटल of the Somme with more than [ an estimated ] million casualties, and the Battle of Passchendaele with roughly [ an estimated ] 600,000 casualties.
In an effort to break the deadlock, this front देखी the परिचय of नई सैन्य technology, including poison gas, aircraft and tanks.
But it was only after the adoption of improved tactics कि कुछ उपाधि of गतिशीलता थी लौटी.
the जर्मनी वसन्त अप्रिय of 1918 was made possible by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk that marked the end of the conflict on the Eastern Front.
Using the recently-introduced infiltration tactics, the German armies advanced nearly to the west, which marked the deepest अग्रिम by either पक्ष चूंकि 1914 और बहुत nearly succeeded in forcing a breakthrough.
In spite of the generally stagnant प्रकृति of इस सामने, इस थिएटर होता prove decisive.
The inexorable अग्रिम of the अलाइड सेना दौरान the दूसरी हाफ of 1918 persuaded the German commanders that defeat was inevitable, and the government was forced to sue for conditions of an armistice.
The शर्तें of सलाम यहूद सहमत upon साथ the signing of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919.
The following is a list of पुनरावर्ती और नाबालिग वर्ण in the डिज़्नी चैनल असली Series The Suite Life of Zack & Cody.
ये वर्ण यहूद regularly घुमाया, प्रायः disappearing for long periods during the series.
The following list of वर्ण रै महरूम sorted alphabetically, by first name.
कुछ of the वर्ण था no पिछला नाम और सबसे यहूद commonly referred to by their first name so this appeared to be the most logical method.
In the case of Chef Paolo, who had no ज्ञात पहला नाम, वे have been listed by title.
The First Lady of the United राज्य ( flotus ) is the होस्टेस of the White House.
Because this स्थिति is traditionally भर by the बीवी of the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त States, the title is most often applied to the wife of a sitting president.
The current पहला महिला is मिशेल Obama.
बाद उसके husband बराक ओबामा थी re-elected on नवम्बर 6, 2012, she is scheduled to serve until January 20, 2017.
Septic shock is a medical condition as a परिणाम of कठोर संक्रमण और सेप्सिस, हालांकि the microbe may be systemic or localized to a particular site.
It can cause अनेक अंग dysfunction सिंड्रोम ( formerly known as multiple organ failure ) and death.
Its most common victims are children, immunocompromised individuals, and the elderly, as their immune प्रणालियों can नहीं सौदे साथ the संक्रमण as effectively as those of स्वस्थ adults.
अक्सर, मरीजों कष्ट इससे septic shock are cared for in intensive care units.
The mortality रेट इससे सेप्टिक shock is approximately 25–50 %.
Kevin Brereton ( born फ़रवरी 20, 1972 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम k-os ( ; `` chaos '' ), is a Canadian rapper, singer, songwriter and record producer.
His given name may भी be cited as kheaven, a स्पेलिंग he later adopted.
The alias `` k-os '', spelled with a lower case `` k '', was intended to be कम आक्रामक than the pseudonyms of अन्य rappers जिनकी names were all upper case, such as KRS-One.
It is an एक्रोनिम लिये `` ज्ञान of स्वः, '' हालांकि in a बाद इंटरव्यू he कहा कि it originally stood लिये `` केविन 's असली ध्वनि. '' k-os ' म्यूज़िक incorporates a चौड़ी variety of music genres, including rap, funk, rock, and reggae.
The lyrics frequently focus on promoting a `` positive message '' while at times expressing criticism of mainstream hip हॉप संस्कृति 's obsession साथ धन, कीर्ति और glorification of हिंसा.
A musician as खूब as a निर्माता, k-os रै लिखा और उत्पादित nearly every part of all four of his albums.
k-os प्रायः performs साथ a सजीव बैंड, कुछ कि is uncommon in the hip hop genre.
He sometimes plays गिटार और कुंजीपटल दोनो दौरान सजीव performances and in the studio.
k-os received his first musical exposure with the सिंगल `` musical essence '', released in 1993.
After the release of his second single `` Rise Like the Sun '' in 1996, he withdrew from the industry क्युकी he थी असंतुष्ट साथ his musical style.
He reappeared briefly in 1999 और released his debut album Exit in 2002.
The album received धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ लकिन बेची अपेक्षाकृत few copies.
He released his second album आनन्द विद्रोह in 2004, जिससे प्राप्त platinum status in Canada.
A third एल्बम,, थी released in 2006 and also went platinum.
His fourth album, यस !
, was released in 2009.
His fifth एल्बम ब्लैक on सुनहरे was released in 2013.
The आधिकारिक 2007 संस्करण of the UCC.
भी the गोपनीय अशिष्ट drafts of the UCC were saved and published as a 10-volume set.
The Uniform Commercial Code ( UCC or the Code ), पहला प्रकाशित in 1952, is एक of a क्रमांक of वर्दी अधिनियमों कि have महरूम promulgated in संयोजन साथ प्रयत्न to harmonize the विधि of बिक्री and other commercial transactions in all 50 states within the United States of America.
Multi-pitch climbing is the ascent of चढ़ाई रूट साथ एक or अधिक stops at a belay station.
Each section of वास्तविक चढ़ाई between stops at the belay stations is called a pitch.
The leader ascends the pitch, रखकर गियर और stopping to लंगर themselves to the belay स्टेशन.
The reason लिये the stops can be संकल्पित by choice, convention or necessity.
लिये example:
The rope is too छोटी to do the संपूर्ण रूट in एक पिच ( necessity ).
the नेता रै चलाएं आउट of protective gear ( necessity ).
वहीँ is a सुविधाजनक protectable ledge, or fixed bolts placed by previous climbers, at the location for a belay station ( convention ).
the नेता chooses to बाकी or एक्सचेंज लीड पहले the next section of the climb ( choice ).
The general purpose of these stops is to allow the दूसरी to ascend to the पाइंट of the सीसे climber जबकि collecting the protective gear from the route in the course of the lead climber 's ascent.
At the belay station, the protective gear is collected, possibly exchanged to a नई नेता, और the नेता of the अगला पिच ascends the रूट.
A आरेख प्रर्दशित an i गठन on offense and a 4-3 Formation on defense
In American football, प्रत्येक टोली रै ग्यारह खिलाड़ी on the field at one time.
The विशिष्ट भूमिका कि a खिलाड़ी takes on the फ़ील्ड is called their position.
Under the modern rules of American football, teams are allowed unlimited subsititutions, कि is टीमों may बदलें कोई क्रमांक of खिलाड़ी after any play.
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players, the offense ( the team with the ball, who is trying to score ), the defense ( the टोली trying to prevent the अन्य टोली इससे स्कोरिंग, और to लो the बॉल इससे उन्हें ), और the खास टीमों ( जो खेल in kicking situations ).
Within those platoons, various specific positions मौजूद depending on कया the खिलाड़ी 's प्रमुख job is.
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.
The CSA is the federal u.S. ड्रग नीति अंतर्गत जिससे the manufacture, importation, कब्ज़ा, उपयोग और वितरण of certain substances is regulated.
The Act also served as the नेशनल implementing विधान लिये the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
The legislation निर्मित पाँच schedules ( classifications ), with varying qualifications for a substance to be included in each.
Two federal agencies, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration, determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules, though the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग, और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000, जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i. वर्गीकरण निर्णय हैं जरूरी to be बना on मापदण्ड सहित संभावित लिये गाली ( an अपरिभाषित term ), currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and international treaties.
The Wayne Route 23 Transit Center is a New Jersey Transit park-and-ride स्टेशन in वेन, नई जर्सी साथ the montclair-boonton लकीर कि provides बस सेवा to नई यॉर्क नगर और विभिन्न अन्य अंक in the क्षेत्रफल as खूब as montclair-boonton Line train service to New York, Hoboken, and intermediate points along the line between Hackettstown and Montclair State University.
It is located off of the southbound lanes of New Jersey Route 23 on West Belt Road, निकट the इंटरचेंज जहाँ रूट 23, अंतरराज्यीय 80, और u.S. रूट 46 मिलें, across from the Willowbrook Mall.
The station opened in January 2008 और रै 1,000 पार्किंग स्पेसेस.
New Jersey Transit intends for this combined rail and bus station to become an `` interceptor स्टेशन, '' कि होगा सहायता relieve the habitual जमघट at the वेस्ट बेल्ट सड़क इंटरचेंज, जहाँ the तीन major highways meet.
In addition, the construction of the station was meant to also ease the congestion at what was then Route 23 Park & Ride, a bus depot on Route 23 North that रै चूंकि महरूम renamed माँ 's पार्क & सवारी, और the willowbrook मॉल पार्क & सवारी ; the now-mother 's साईट था सीमित पार्किंग जबकि njt थी having ट्रबल साथ overfull पार्किंग क्षेत्रों at Willowbrook.
The वेन township bus garage is located on the opposite side of Route 23.
There has been a proposal to build a parking deck with another thousand spots और develop the जमीन at the स्टेशन.
In addition to montclair-boonton रेल, the पारगमन बीच is served by the following New Jersey Transit bus lines:
75 to न्यूर्क penn स्टेशन और Butler
194 to बंदरगाहों प्राधिकार बस टर्मिनल and Butler/Newfoundland
198 to Port प्राधिकार बस टर्मिनल और विलियम Paterson University
324 to Port प्राधिकार और वेन रूट 23
748 to willowbrook मॉल and Paterson
The at sign @ is also commonly पुकारा the at प्रतीक, ampersat, apetail or वाणिज्यिक at in English—and less commonly a wide range of other terms.
The fact कि वहीँ is no सिंगल शब्द in अंग्रेज़ी लिये the प्रतीक रै prompted कुछ लेखक to उपयोग the फ्रेंच arobase or स्पेनी and Portuguese arroba—or to coin new words such as asperand, ampersat—but none of these has achieved wide currency.
Originally an accounting and commercial invoice abbreviation meaning `` at the rate of '' ( e.g. 7 विजेट @ $ 2 = $ 14 ), it थी नहीं शामिल on the कुंजीपटल of the earliest commercially कामयाब typewriters, लकिन थी on at तनिक एक 1889 मॉडल और the बहुत successful Underwood models from the `` Underwood No. 5 '' in 1900 onward.
It is now universally शामिल on कंप्यूटर keyboards.
In recent years, its meaning has grown to include the sense of being `` स्तिथ at, '' `` और, '' or `` निर्देशित at '', विशेषकर in ईमेल पता और सोशल मीडिया, particularly Twitter.
The mark is एनकोडेड at.
The catcher in the rye is a 1951 novel by J. D. Salinger.
originally प्रकाशित लिये वयस्कों, it रै चूंकि become लोकप्रिय साथ adolescent पाठक for its themes of teenage angst and alienation.
It has महरूम अनूदित into लगभग सब of the संसार 's major languages.
Around 250,000 copies हैं बेची प्रत्येक साल साथ कुल बिक्री of अधिक than 65 million books.
The novel 's protagonist and antihero, होल्डन caulfield, रै become an icon for teenage rebellion.
the अनोखा थी शामिल on टाइम्स 2005 सूची of the 100 बेहतरीन english-language novels लिखा चूंकि 1923, and it was named by Modern Library and its readers as one of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century.
It has been frequently challenged in the संयुक्त राज्य और अन्य देशों लिये इसके liberal use of profanity and portrayal of sexuality.
It also सौदे साथ जटिल मुद्दे of पहचान, belonging, connection, and alienation.
Skeletal muscles होमो sapiens
This is a table of muscles of the इंसान anatomy.
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human, and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles, found on दोनो पहलू, resulting in लगभग 320 pairs of मांसपेशियां, as प्रस्तुत in इस article.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles differently, e.g. regarding कया is पारिभाषित as अलग भाग of a सिंगल मांसपेशी or as several muscles.
Examples range इससे 640 to 850.
The मांसपेशियां of the इंसान देह can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the head and neck, muscles of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs.
The action refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी इससे the standard anatomical position.
In other positions, अन्य क्रियाएँ may be performed.
Bad Girls Club ( BGC ) is an American reality television series created by Jonathan मरे लिये the ऑक्सीजन टेलीविज़न स्टेशन.
The show centers on seven feisty and mischievous women साथ अलग पृष्ठभूमि और personalities, जो have a क्रमांक of मनोवैज्ञानिक और behavioral problems.
They are introduced to the show off their pernicious behavior और accomplish विशिष्ट goals.
The cast, deemed `` ख़राब लड़कियों '', आनंद a luxurious जीवनशैली in a ठीक mansion for three months, during which they must obey specified rules.
उनके जीवनदान अंदर – और बाहर – of the हाउस हैं chronicled and recorded by the production team.
The Bad Girls Club is ब्रॉडकास्ट in पाँच देशों ( United States, Netherlands, Australia, Hungary, and Sweden ).
It रै प्राप्त ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों, who believe the show promotes violence by adolescent viewers.
Furthermore, several cast members made विवादास्पद remarks जिससे outraged अनेक दर्शक.
the स्वरूप of the show has changed from early seasons.
If a `` bad girl '' breaks a rule, she is evicted from the show and, if it is जल्दी in the ऋतु, replaced by a नई `` ख़राब girl ''.
There have been nine पूरा सीज़न of the ख़राब लड़कियों क्लबों, साथ the tenth season currently airing.
The चौथी ऋतु था the उच्चतम दरजा in the show 's history, becoming its `` breakthrough season ''.
There have been three spin-offs of the ख़राब लड़कियों Club.
One of them, Love खेल : ख़राब लड़कियों need प्रेम too, जहाँ पास्ट डाल सदस्यों तलाश सच्चा love, has gained high ratings.
Oxygen has also released a mobile game, कॉमिक स्ट्रिप और merchandise to प्रचार the दिखाएँ.
Of the 92 contestants, Kerry harvick ( of ऋतु एक ) थी a successful country singer before the show.
tanisha थामस ( of ऋतु दो ) later hosted Oxygen 's OxygenLive !
and the subsequent seasons of Love खेल : ख़राब लड़कियों need प्रेम Too.
Thomas, who has been dubbed the `` गॉडमदर '' to सब प्रतियोगी, रै उसके अपना टेलीविज़न documentary entitled Tanisha Gets Married.
As of Season 8 वो 's महरूम the मेजबान of the reunion specials.
The आयोवा सीनेट is the अपर house of the Iowa General Assembly.
There are 50 सीटे in the आयोवा सीनेट, representing 50 single-member districts across the state with populations of approximately 60,927 per constituency,.
Each Senate ज़िला is रचित of दो हाउस जिले.
The Senate meets at the आयोवा राज्य कैपिटल in Des Moines.
Unlike the lower house, the Iowa House of प्रतिनिधि, सीनेटरों serve four-year शर्तें, साथ हाफ of the सीनेट staggered for re-election every two years.
There are no पद हद लिये the Senate.
mechanical repair
Maintenance, repair, and operations ( MRO ) or maintenance, मरम्मत, और overhaul involves फिक्सिंग कोई sort of mechanical, plumbing or विद्युत यंत्र चाहिए it become आउट of अनुक्रम or टूटा ( ज्ञात as मरम्मत, unscheduled or casualty maintenance ).
It also includes performing routine actions which keep the device in working order ( known as अनुसूचित मेंटेनेंस ) or prevent ट्रबल इससे arising ( निवारक मेंटेनेंस ).
MRO may be defined as, `` All actions which have the objective of retaining or restoring an मद in or to a राज्य in जिससे it can perform its required function.
The क्रियाएँ शामिल the संयोजन of सब तकनीकी और सम्बन्धित प्रशासनिक, managerial, and supervision actions. ''
MRO परिचालन can be categorised by whether the उत्पाद remains the प्रॉपर्टी of the ग्राहक, i.e. a service is being offered, or whether the product is bought by the reprocessing organisation and sold to any customer wishing to make the purchase ( Guadette, 2002 ).
In the former case it may be a backshop आपरेशन भीतर a larger संगठन or छोटी आपरेशन.
The former of these represents a closed loop supply chain and प्रायः रै the पैमाना of मेंटेनेंस, मरम्मत or of the उत्पाद.
The latter of the categorisations is an खोलें लूप supply chain and is typified by refurbishment and remanufacture.
The main characteristic of the बंद लूप प्रणाली is कि the माँग लिये a उत्पाद is matched with the supply of a used product.
neglecting एसेट write-offs और असाधारण क्रियाएँ the कुल जनसांख्यिकी of the product between the customer and the service provider remains constant.
प्रिंस विलियम, ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज ( विलियम आर्थर फिलिप लुई ; born 21 जून 1982 ), is the elder बेटे of चार्ल्स, Prince of Wales, and Diana, Princess of Wales, and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
He is second in the line of succession, behind his father, to the तख्तों of सोलह स्वतंत्र sovereign राज्य ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms : the संयुक्त किंगडम, कनाडा, ऑस्ट्रेलिया, नई जीलैंड, जमैका, बारबाडोस, the बहामा, हरा, पापुआ नई गिनी, the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Prince William was educated at four schools in the United किंगडम और प्राप्त a उपाधि इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of st एंड्रयूज.
He spent भाग of a गैप साल in चिली, बेलीज़, तंजानिया, और कीनिया जहाँ he has lived and holidayed several times.
Prince William has also taken Kiswahili अध्ययन at विश्वविद्यालयों in Kenya and Tanzania.
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the Household प्यादे —serving साथ उसके bhai प्रिंस हैरी —and, दो सालो बाद, अर्जित उसके विंग्स by completing पायलट प्रशिक्षण at royal एयर फ़ोर्स College Cranwell.
In 2009, he transferred to the royal एयर फ़ोर्स, थी प्रचारित to उड़ान लेफ्टिनेंट और underwent हेलीकाप्टर flying training in order to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force.
In 2010, he समाप्त उसके सामान्य और special-to-type हेलीकाप्टर प्रशिक्षण और गई on to raf घाटी on no. 22 स्क्वाड्रन performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter.
Prince William married his longtime girlfriend, Catherine Middleton, on 29 अप्रैल 2011 at वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी.
Hours prior to his wedding, प्रिंस विलियम थी निर्मित ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज, अर्ल of Strathearn, and Baron Carrickfergus.
DeAndre Cortez Way ( born July 28, 1990 ), बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम soulja लड़के बताना 'em, or बस soulja लड़के, is an American rapper, record producer, actor, and entrepreneur.
In September 2007, उसके सिंगल `` crank कि ( soulja लड़के ) `` पहुँचे क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड Hot 100.
The single was initially self-published on the अंतरजाल, और it बाद became a number-one hit in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये seven non-consecutive weeks starting in September 2007.
On August 17 Way was listed at # 18 on the Forbes list of hip-hop नकदी किंग्स of 2010 कमाई $ 7 लाख लिये कि साल.
Way has currently released three स्टुडियो एल्बम और एक स्वतंत्र एल्बम : उसके डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) was certified platinum by the RIAA.
However, his next two albums, iSouljaBoyTellem ( 2008 ) and The DeAndre Way ( 2010 ) did not match the commercial success of his debut, the latter only selling 100,000 नक़ल, despite the कामयाबी of अनेक singles आरपार दोनो एल्बम, ऐसे as `` चुंबन me thru the फोन `` और `` फेरे my swag on `` ( isouljaboytellem ) और `` pretty लड़के Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way ).
This was mainly due to negotiation problems with Interscope Records which meant a सीमित राशि of रिकॉर्ड यहूद made available to the public.
as of 2011, रास्ता रै पुष्टि he is working on उसके fourth studio album, entitled USA DRE, which will be released in 2013.
The electron transport chain in the mitochondrion is the site of oxidative phosphorylation in eukaryotes.
The NADH and succinate generated in the citric acid cycle are oxidized, providing उर्जा to शक्ति एटीपी synthase.
Photosynthetic इलेक्ट्रॉन हस्तांतरण कड़ी of the thylakoid membrane.
An electron transport chain ( ETC ) couples electron transfer between an electron दाता ( ऐसे as nadh ) और an इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor ( ऐसे as o2 ) साथ the ट्रांसफ़र of H+ ions ( protons ) across a membrane.
The resulting electrochemical proton अनुपात is प्रयुक्त to generate रासायनिक उर्जा in the form of adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ).
Electron transport chains are the cellular mechanisms used for extracting energy from sunlight in photosynthesis और भी इससे रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रियाएँ, ऐसे as the oxidation of sugars ( respiration ).
In chloroplasts, लाइट ड्राइव the परिवर्तन of जल to ऑक्सीजन और nadP+ to NADPH with transfer of H+ ions across chloroplast membranes.
In mitochondria, it is the conversion of oxygen to water, NADH to NAD+ and succinate to fumarate कि हैं जरूरी to generate the प्रोटॉन अनुपात.
Electron transport जंजीरों हैं प्रमुख साइट of असामयिक इलेक्ट्रॉन leakage to ऑक्सीजन, generating superoxide and potentially resulting in increased oxidative stress.
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as Conzip, Ryzolt, Ultracet, Ultram in the USA, ralivia, zytram xl durella { cr-100/200 mg } in कनाडा or adolonta in स्पेन ) is a centrally acting synthetic analgesic used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain.
The drug has a wide range of applications, including treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, बेचैन टाँगे सिंड्रोम, मोटर neurone बीमारी and fibromyalgia.
It was launched and marketed as tramal by the जर्मनी फार्मास्युटिकल कम्पनी grünenthal GmbH in 1977.
Tramadol is a weak μ-opioid receptor agonist कि भी induces serotonin release and inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine.
Tramadol is metabolized to o-desmethyltramadol, a significantly अधिक potent μ-opioid agonist.
Tramadol and its major metabolite ( s ) are distinguished इससे अन्य अधिक potent opioid agonists by सापेक्ष selectivity लिये μ-opioid receptors.
बर्नार्ड लॉरेंस `` बर्नी '' madoff ( ; born अप्रैल 29, 1938 ) is an अमरीकी former stockbroker, investment advisor, financier, and white collar criminal.
He is the former non-executive Chairman of the नैस्डैक भण्डार मार्केट, और the admitted ऑपरेटर of a पेन्शन योजना कि is माना to be the largest financial fraud in U.S. history.
Madoff founded the Wall Street firm बर्नार्ड L. madoff निवेश प्रतिभूति llc in 1960, और थी इसके अध्यक्ष until his arrest on December 11, 2008.
The firm was one of the top market maker businesses on Wall गली, जिससे bypassed `` विशेषज्ञ '' firms by सीधे निष्पादित orders over the counter from retail brokers.
He employed at the firm his brother Peter as Senior Managing Director and Chief अनुपालन अधिकारी ; पीटर रै चूंकि महरूम sentenced to 10 सालो in थाना.
Peter 's daughter Shana Madoff as the firm 's rules and compliance officer and attorney, and his sons एंड्रयू और चिह्नित ( चिह्नित वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या by फांसी exactly दो सालो बाद उसके father 's arrest ).
On December 10, 2008, Madoff 's sons told authorities that their father had confessed to them कि the एसेट प्रबन्धन ईकाई of उसके कड़ थी a विशाल Ponzi scheme, and quoted him as describing it as `` one big lie. ''
The following day, FBI एजेंटों गिरफ्तार madoff और चार्ज उसे साथ one count of securities fraud.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) had previously conducted investigations into madoff 's कारोबार practices, लकिन किया नहीं ख़ोज the विशाल धोखाधड़ी.
In March 2009, Madoff pleaded guilty to 11 federal felonies and admitted to turning his wealth management business into a विशाल पेन्शन योजना कि झांसे हज़ारों of निवेशकों of अरबों of डॉलर.
madoff कहा he began the पेन्शन scheme in the early 1990s.
However, federal जांचकर्ताओं मानना the धोखाधड़ी began as जल्दी as the 1970s, और those चार्ज साथ recovering the missing money believe the investment operation may never have been legitimate.
The amount missing from client accounts, सहित fabricated gains, थी almost $ 65 billion.
the court-appointed ट्रस्टी अनुमानित वास्तविक losses to investors of $ 18 billion.
On June 29, 2009, he was sentenced to 150 years in थाना, the अधिकतम अनुमत.
प्रशासनिक पेशेवर दिन ( भी ज्ञात as secretaries दिन or एडमिन दिन ) is an unofficial धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश observed in several countries to recognize the work of secretaries, administrative assistants, receptionists, and other administrative support professionals.
In North America, it is celebrated on the बुधवार of the पिछला पूरा सप्ताह of अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 24 in 2013 ).
In फ़्रांस it is मनाये on the तीसरा गुरुवार in April ( April 18 in 2013 ).
In Australia it is मनाये on the पहला शुक्रवार in May
A quasi-judicial body is an entity such as an arbitrator or tribunal board, generally of a public administrative agency, जिससे रै शक्तियां और प्रक्रियाओं resembling those of a अदालत of विधि or judge, and which is obligated to objectively determine facts and draw conclusions from them so as to provide the basis of an official action.
Such actions are able to remedy a situation or impose legal penalties, and may affect the विधिक अधिकारों, कर्तव्य or privileges of विशिष्ट पार्टियों.
Monument of Tycho Brahe और योहानेस कॅप्लर in Prague
Tycho Brahe ( 14 December 154624 October 1601 ), born Tyge ottesen ब्राहे, थी a डैनिश nobleman ज्ञात लिये उसके सटीक और व्यापक खगोलीय and planetary observations.
He थी born in स्कैनिया, तब भाग of Denmark, now part of modern-day Sweden.
tycho थी खूब ज्ञात in उसके आजीवन as an astronomer and alchemist.
in उसके de नोवा स्टेला ( on the नई star ) of 1573, he refuted the Aristotelian belief in an unchanging celestial realm.
His precise measurements indicated that `` new stars, '' ( stellae novae, अभी ज्ञात as supernovae ) in particular कि of 1572, lacked the लंबन अपेक्षित in sub-lunar phenomena, and were therefore not `` atmospheric '' tailless comets as previously believed, but were above the atmosphere and moon.
Using similar measurements he showed that comets यहूद भी नहीं वायुमंडलीय phenomena, as previously विचार, और जरूर pass through the supposedly `` immutable '' celestial spheres.
As an astronomer, Tycho worked to combine what he saw as the geometrical benefits of the Copernican system साथ the philosophical लाभ of the ptolemaic प्रणाली into उसके अपना मॉडल of the ब्रह्मांड, the Tychonic system.
Furthermore, he थी the पिछला of the प्रमुख नग्न नजर खगोलशास्त्रियों, working without telescopes for his observations.
Tycho Brahe was granted an estate on the island of Hven and the funding to build the Uraniborg, an early research institute, where he built large astronomical instruments and took many careful measurements, and later Stjerneborg, भूमिगत, जब he खोजा कि उसके यंत्र in the पूर्व यहूद not sufficiently steady.
On the island ( on which he demonstrated निरंकुश अक्षर और बर्ताव toward the निवासियों ) he संस्थापित manufactories ऐसे as paper-making to provide सामग्री for printing his results.
बाद मतभिन्नता साथ the नई डैनिश किंग ईसाई iv in 1597, he थी आमंत्रित by the Bohemian king and Holy Roman emperor Rudolph II to Prague, where he became the official imperial astronomer.
He निर्मित the नई वेधशाला at Benátky nad Jizerou.
Here, from 1600 जबतक उसके मौत in 1601, he थी assisted by योहानेस कॅप्लर जो बाद प्रयुक्त Tycho 's astronomical data to develop Kepler 's laws of planetary motion.
Guro District ( Guro-gu ) is a district of सियोल, दक्षिण कोरियाई, जिससे थी अलग इससे yeongdeungpo District on April 1, 1980.
Located in the southwestern part of the नगर, जहाँ besides yangcheon ज़िला और geumcheon ज़िला guro ज़िला रै an महत्वपूर्ण स्थिति as a हस्तांतरण कड़ी जिससे contains railroads, जमीन रूट from the rest of Seoul to the south of the country.
The gyeongbu और gyeongin रेल lines connect Seoul to Busan and Incheon.
In addition, सियोल महानगर सबवे लाइनों 1, 2, और 7, और प्रमुख highways intersect in Guro District.
The name guro originates इससे the लेजेंड कि नौ ( ) बूढ़ा मेन ( Korean : ro ) enjoyed longevity in the district.
A digital industrial complex is स्तिथ in guro ज़िला.
The Guro Digital Industrial Complex, which played a leading industrial role mainly with textile manufacturing, dressmaking and other labour-intensive उद्योग in 1967, रै महरूम rapidly बदला into an it औद्योगिक complex.
This complex played a pivotal role in the economic growth of the South Korea 's development era, referred to as the `` चमत्कार on the हान नदी ``, और भी contributed 10 प्रतिशत of नेशनल निर्यात in the 1970s.
Twenty-one प्रतिशत of the कुल क्षेत्रफल of guro ज़िला is a प्रतिबंधित मण्डल to be used as a greenbelt with the only arboretum in Seoul.
The zone is changing into a lively district as large labour-intensive कारखानों हैं चलती इससे the क्षेत्रफल और the परिषद is developing what it terms its four zones.
An `` e-government `` प्रणाली आधारित on इस hosted the अंतरराष्ट्रीय e-participation फ़ोरम on फ़रवरी 7–9, 2007, with the participation of more than thirty-seven countries.
The forum was launched with the theme `` Promoting Democracy and Regional Development '' and twenty-five mayors including André Santini ( Issy-les-Moulineaux, France ), Kevin Foy ( Chapel Hill, US ), apirak kosayothin ( बैंकॉक, थाईलैंड ), uvais मोहम्मद emthiyas ( कोलोन, श्री लंका ), और संसार विशेषज्ञ ऐसे as dr विलियम H. dutton ( निदेशक of ऑक्सफोर्ड अंतरजाल संस्थान at the विश्वविद्यालयों of ऑक्सफोर्ड, uk ) और dr ari-veiko anttiroiko ( professor at the University of Tampere, Finland ) participated in the forum.
The Guro Declaration, अपनाया दौरान the फ़ोरम, aims to नियत up a पोर्टल साईट लिये e-government विकास और to establish a concrete project in order to bridge the digital divide among the world 's cities.
This practice has महरूम recognised लिये providing a नई महत्वपूर्ण step in the development of e-democracy.
The e-participation forum was a key factor for Guro to play the leading role in bridging the digital divide among cities, to provide I.T. enterprises स्तिथ in guro डिजिटल औद्योगिक जटिल the अवसर to लॉन्च into the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मार्केट, to improve its image and become a global leader to concrete e-democracy.
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय e-participation forum on February 7–9, 2007
A wonton ( also spelled wantan, wanton, or wuntun in ट्रांसक्रिप्शन इससे cantonese ; मंदारिन : húndùn ) is a प्रकार of पकौड़ी commonly मिला in a number of Chinese cuisines.
Many people यहूद शामिल in the आविष्कार of radio as we now know it.
Several possible methods of wireless communication were considered, including inductive and capacitive induction और हस्तांतरण through the मैदान, however the विधि प्रयुक्त लिये रेडियो आज exclusively involves the हस्तांतरण और रिसेप्शन of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक waves.
After early speculation on the subject, experimental work on the connection between electricity and magnetism began around 1820 with the work of Hans Christian Ørsted and जारी साथ the कार्य of andré-marie एम्पीयर, जोसेफ हेनरी, और माइकल Faraday.
These investigations culminated in the पूरा theory of electromagnetism developed by James Clerk Maxwell.
This सिद्धान्त वर्णित the सैद्धांतिक basis of the propagation of electromagnetic waves.
After Maxwell 's सिद्धान्त थी प्रकाशित अनेक लोगों experimented साथ बेतार संचार, कुछ intentionally using Maxwell 's theory some not.
It is considered likely that the first intentional transmission of a signal by means of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक लहरें थी performed by दाउद एडवर्ड ह्यूजेस around 1880, हालांकि इस थी considered to be induction at the time.
The first systematic and unequivocal transmission of EM waves was performed by Heinrich रुडॉल्फ हर्ट्ज़ और वर्णित in papers प्रकाशित in 1887 and 1890.
Hertz famously considered these results as होने of छोटी व्यावहारिक value.
After Hertz 's work many लोगों यहूद शामिल in the विकास of components और सिद्धान्त involved with the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves.
Others, notably Guglielmo Marconi, यहूद चिंतित साथ व्यावहारिक सुधार और the commercial application of radio to wireless telegraphy.
Later on Reginald A. fessenden became the पहला to send an audio signal by means of electromagnetic waves.
Scurvy is a disease resulting from a कमियां of विटामिन c, जिससे is जरूरी लिये the संश्लेषण of collagen in humans.
The chemical name for vitamin C, ascorbic acid, is derived from the Latin name of scurvy, scorbutus, जिससे भी provides the क्रियाशील scorbutic ( `` of, characterized by or having to do साथ स्कर्वी '' ).
Scurvy often presents itself initially as लक्षण of malaise और lethargy, followed by गठन of spots on the skin, spongy gums, and bleeding from the mucous membranes.
Spots are most abundant on the जांघों और टाँगे, और a व्यक्ति साथ the ailment looks pale, feels depressed, and is partially immobilized.
As scurvy advances, there can be open, suppurating wounds, घाटा of दांत, पीलिया, ज्वर, neuropathy and death.
Scurvy was at one time common among sailors, pirates and others aboard ships at समुद्र longer than perishable फल और सब्जियां could be भंडारित ( subsisting बजाय तभी on cured और salted meats और सूखी दाने ) और by soldiers similarly deprived of these foods for extended periods.
It was described by Hippocrates ( c. 460 BC–c. 380 BC ), and herbal cures लिये स्कर्वी have महरूम ज्ञात in अनेक देशी संस्कृतियों चूंकि प्रागितिहास.
Scurvy was एक of the limiting कारकों of समुद्री सफर, often killing large numbers of the passengers and crew on long-distance voyages.
This became a significant issue in Europe इससे the शुरूआत of the आधुनिक era in the आयु of डिस्कवरी in the 15th century, continuing to play a significant role through World War I in the 20th century.
While आज स्कर्वी is ज्ञात to be caused by a nutritional कमियां, जबतक the अलगाव of विटामिन c और सीधा प्रमाण of its link to scurvy in 1932, numerous theories and treatments were proposed, often on little or no experimental data.
This inconsistency is attributed to the lack of vitamin C as a distinct concept, an inability to reliably कड़ी अलग भोजन ( notably उपस्थित in भैस citrus, watercress, and organ meat ) to scurvy.
An अतिरिक्त अवधारणा जरूरी to समझे स्कर्वी थी the degradation of विटामिन c by एक्सपोज़र to air and copper and other transition metal salts such as those of iron, thus changing the links of foods to scurvy over time.
Treatment by भैस खाना, विशेषकर citrus फल, थी periodically implemented, as it had been since antiquity.
however जबतक the 1930s, उपचार थी असंगत, with many ineffective treatments used into the 20th century.
It was a Scottish surgeon in the Royal Navy, James Lind जो पहला proved it could be treated साथ citrus फल in प्रयोग he described in his 1753 book, A Treatise of the Scurvy, though his advice was not implemented by the Royal Navy for several decades.
In infants, scurvy is sometimes referred to as Barlow 's बीमारी, नामित बाद सर थामस barlow, a अंग्रेजों चिकित्सक who described it.
However, Barlow 's बीमारी may भी refer to mitral valve prolapse.
Other eponyms for स्कर्वी शामिल moeller 's बीमारी और cheadle 's disease.
Scurvy does नहीं occur in सबसे पशु क्युकी वे can synthesize their own vitamin C.
However, humans and other higher primates ( the simians - monkeys and apes - and tarsiers ), guinea pigs, most or सब bats, और कुछ प्रजाति of पक्षियों और मछली कमी an एंजाइम ( l-gulonolactone oxidase ) जरुरी लिये ऐसे संश्लेषण and must obtain vitamin C through their diet.
Vitamin C is widespread in plant tissues, with particularly high concentrations occurring in citrus fruits ( oranges, lemons, limes, grapefruits ), टमाटर, आलू, पत्तागोभी, और green peppers.
Iron is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ the प्रतीक fe ( इससे ) और atomic number 26.
it is a मेटल in the पहला परिवर्तन series.
It is the most common element ( by mass ) forming the planet धरती as a पूरे, forming much of धरती 's बाहरी और भीतरी core.
It is the चौथी सबसे आम element in the Earth 's crust.
Iron 's very common presence in rocky planets like Earth is due to its abundant उत्पादन as a परिणाम of संलयन in high-mass सितारों, जहाँ the उत्पादन of nickel-56 ( जिससे decays to the सबसे आम isotope of iron ) is the last nuclear fusion reaction that is exothermic.
This causes radioactive nickel to become the last element to be produced before collapse of a supernova leads to the विस्फोटक कार्यक्रम कि scatter इस precursor radionuclide of iron abundantly into space.
Like other group 8 elements, iron exists in a wide range of oxidation states, −2 to +6, हालांकि +2 और +3 हैं the most common.
elemental आयरन occurs in meteoroids और अन्य कम oxygen environments, but is reactive to oxygen and water.
Fresh iron सतहों appear lustrous silvery-gray, लकिन oxidize in normal air to give hydrated iron oxides, commonly known as rust.
Unlike many other metals which form passivating oxide layers, iron oxides occupy अधिक आवाज़ than आयरन मेटल, और यूँ आयरन आक्साइड फ्लेक बंद और expose भैस सतहों for corrosion.
Iron metal has been used since प्राचीन टाइम्स, हालांकि तांबे alloys, जिससे have निम्नतर melting temperatures, were used first in history.
Pure iron is soft ( softer than एल्युमिनियम ), लकिन is unobtainable by smelting.
The material is significantly hardened और strengthened by impurities इससे the smelting process, such as carbon.
A certain proportion of carbon ( between 0.002 % and 2.1 % ) produces स्टील, जिससे may be up to 1000 टाइम्स harder than pure iron.
Crude iron metal is produced in blast furnaces, where अयस्क is घटाया by कोक to सुअर आयरन, which has a high carbon content.
Further refinement with oxygen reduces the carbon content to the सही proportion to मेक steel.
Steels and low carbon iron alloys with other metals ( alloy steels ) are by दूर the सबसे आम धातुओं in औद्योगिक उपयोग, due to उनके ग्रेट दायरा of वांछनीय गुण और the abundance of iron.
Iron chemical यौगिकों, जिससे शामिल अमिश्रित and ferric compounds, have many uses.
Iron oxide mixed with aluminium powder can be ignited to बनाएँ a थर्माइट प्रतिक्रिया, प्रयुक्त in वेल्डिंग और सुथरा ores.
it फ़ॉर्म शब्दकोष यौगिकों with the halogens and the chalcogens.
Among its कार्बधातुक यौगिकों is ferrocene, the पहला सैंडविच compound discovered.
Iron plays an important भूमिका in जीवविज्ञान, forming देवालय साथ आणविक ऑक्सीजन in हीमोग्लोबिन and myoglobin ; these two compounds are common oxygen transport proteins in vertebrates.
Iron is also the metal used at the क्रियाशील साईट of अनेक महत्वपूर्ण रेडॉक्स एंजाइमों dealing साथ सेल्यूलर श्वसन and oxidation and reduction in plants and animals.
The Blue Cross Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA ) is a संघ of 38 पृथक स्वास्थ्य बीमे संगठन और कंपनियाँ in the संयुक्त States.
Combined, they directly or indirectly provide स्वास्थ्य बीमे to over 99 million Americans.
The history of Blue क्रॉस तिथियाँ वापस to 1929, जबकि the इतिहास of ब्लू Shield dates to 1939.
the ब्लू क्रॉस संघ तिथियाँ वापस to 1960, while its Blue Shield counterpart was created in 1948.
The दो संगठन मिलाया in 1982, forming the current association.
A potato chip ( known as a chip in American, Australian, New Zealand, Canadian, singaporean, हांग काँग, दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी और jamaican अंग्रेज़ी ; as a कुरकुरे in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी और hiberno-english, और as either a चिप or wafer in भारतीय अंग्रेज़ी ) is a पतला टुकड़ा of आलू that is deep fried or baked until crunchy.
Potato chips are commonly served as an क्षुधावर्धक, पक्ष डिश, or स्नैक.
The basic chips are cooked and salted ; additional varieties हैं manufactured using विभिन्न flavorings और संघटक सहित seasonings, herbs, मसाले, cheeses, and artificial additives.
`` Crisps '', however, may भी refer to अनेक अलग प्रकार of savory स्नैक उत्पाद बेची in the संयुक्त Kingdom and Ireland, some made from potato, but may also be made from maize, tapioca or other cereals.
An example of these kinds of savory स्नैक्स is दानव चबाना.
Potato chips are a predominant part of the snack food market in english-speaking देशों and numerous other Western nations.
The global potato chip market generated कुल revenues of us $ 16.4 अरब in 2005.
This accounted for 35.5 % of the कुल savory स्नैक्स market in that year ( US $ 46.1 billion ).
Henry Clay, Sr. ( April 12, 1777 – June 29, 1852 ) was a lawyer, politician and skilled orator who represented केंटकी in दोनो the सीनेट और in the House of Representatives.
He served three different terms as Speaker of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और थी भी Secretary of State from 1825 to 1829.
He lost his अभियान लिये अध्यक्ष in 1824, 1832 and 1844.
Clay was a dominant figure in both the पहला और दूसरी पार्टी प्रणालियों.
As a leading war hawk in 1812, he favored war with ब्रिटेन और निभाई a significant भूमिका in अग्रणी the स्वदेश to युद्ध in the युद्ध of 1812.
In 1824 he ran for अध्यक्ष और खोया, लकिन फेंका उसके चुनावी मत to जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स, जो बना him secretary of state as the Jacksonians denounced what they considered a `` corrupt bargain. ''
He ran and lost again in 1832 and 1844 as the candidate of the whig पार्टी, जिससे he संस्थापित और प्रायः वर्चस्व.
Clay was the foremost proponent of the American System, fighting for an increase in tariffs to फोस्टर उद्योग in the संयुक्त राज्य, the use of federal funding to build and maintain infrastructure, and a strong national bank.
He opposed the annexation of टेक्सास, fearing it होता इंजेक्ट the slavery issue into politics.
मिट्टी भी opposed the mexican-american युद्ध और the `` manifest नियति `` policy of Democrats, which cost him votes in the close 1844 election.
Dubbed the `` Great Pacificator, '' मिट्टी brokered महत्वपूर्ण compromises दौरान the Nullification Crisis and on the slavery issue.
As part of the `` Great Triumvirate `` or `` Immortal Trio, '' along with his सहयोगियों डेनियल वेबस्टर और जॉन C. calhoun, he थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in formulating the मिसौरी Compromise of 1820 and the Compromise of 1850.
He was viewed as the primary प्रतिनिधि of पश्चिमी रूचि in इस समूह, और was given the names `` Henry of the West '' and `` The Western Star. ''
A plantation owner, Clay held स्लेव दौरान उसके आजीवन लकिन freed उन्हें in his Will.
Abraham Lincoln, the whig नेता in इलिनोइस, थी a ग्रेट admirer of मिट्टी, saying he was `` my ideal of a great man. ''
lincoln wholeheartedly समर्थित मिट्टी 's economic programs.
In 1957, a Senate Committee selected Clay as one of the पाँच महानतम u.s. सीनेटरों, साथ साथ डेनियल वेबस्टर, जॉन C. calhoun, रॉबर्ट la follette, and Robert Taft.
BJ 's Wholesale Club, Inc., commonly referred to बस as bj 's, is a membership-only गोदाम क्लबों कड़ी ऑपरेटिंग on the United States East Coast, as well as in the state of Ohio.
The company is ranked # 232 on सौभाग्य पत्रिका 's 2010 लिस्टिंग of अमेरिका 's 500 largest public corporations.
The जादूगर of oz, ज्ञात दौरान उसके शासनकाल as the ग्रेट और शक्तिशाली oz, is the epithet of Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkel Emmannuel Ambroise Diggs, a fictional character in the Land of Oz, created by American author L. Frank Baum.
The character was further popularized by the क्लासिक 1939 फिल्म, wherein उसके पूरा नाम is not mentioned.
Kristinia Jamie DeBarge ( ; born March 8, 1990 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, नर्तकी and actress.
She first appeared on नेशनल टेलीविज़न in 2003 as a प्रतियोगी on the अमरीकी Idol spin-off, American Juniors.
In 2009, DeBarge signed a contract with the Island Records विभाग sodapop, releasing उसके डेब्यू एल्बम उजागर in जुलाई of the वही year.
The first single, `` अलविदा ``, पहुँचे the top 20 in the US and Canada.
The lead single ( `` Cry Wolf '' ) from उसके बेनाम sophomore एल्बम थी released on September 27, 2012.
The Hawaii Warriors football team represents the विश्वविद्यालयों of hawaiʻi at mānoa in ncaa प्रभाग i fbs कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल.
The team is coached by norm चाउ.
It was part of the पश्चिमी एथलेटिक सम्मेलन जबतक जुलाई 2012, जब the टोली joined the Mountain West Conference.
The Hawaii योद्धाओं यहूद the तीसरा non-aq टोली to खेल in a bcs कटोरी खेल ; खोने to जॉर्जिया 41–10 in the Sugar Bowl on January 1, 2008 in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Marvin Gaye ( April 2, 1939April 1, 1984 ), born मारविन pentz gay, jr., थी an American singer-songwriter and musician.
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s साथ a स्ट्रिंग of हिट्स सहित `` कैसा मीठी it is ( to be loved by तुम ) `` और `` i सुना it through the grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell, later earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul ''.
During the 1970s, Gaye recorded the अवधारणा एल्बम कया 's going on और let 's मिलेंगी it on और became among the first artists in Motown to break away from the reins of its production company.
Gaye 's later recordings influenced several R & B subgenres ऐसे as शांत तूफ़ान और neo-soul.
following a काल in Europe under a tax exile in the early 1980s, Gaye released the 1982 Grammy Award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album.
Since his death in 1984, Gaye has महरूम मरणोपरांत सम्मानित by अनेक संस्थानों, सहित the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
Location of chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति plant
The abandoned city of pripyat साथ chernobyl संयंत्र in the distance
abandoned आवास ब्लॉक in pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster (, Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a अनर्थकारी नाभिकीय दुर्घटना कि occurred on 26 अप्रैल 1986 at the chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in युक्त ( तब officially the Ukrainian SSR ), which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union.
An explosion and fire released large quantities of radioactive अणु into the माहौल, जिससे स्प्रेड over much of the पश्चिमी ussr और यूरोपीय.
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history, and is one of only two classified as a स्तर 7 इवेंट on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नाभिकीय इवेंट स्केल ( the अन्य होने the फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति in 2011 ).
The बैटल to contain the संदूषण और avert a वृहद प्रलय ultimately शामिल over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles.
The official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has been विवादित, और long-term प्रभाव ऐसे as cancers और deformities हैं स्टिल being accounted for.
Mrs. Claus says अलविदा to उसके husband as he सेट बंद on उसके यात्रा in this 1919 postcard
Mrs. Claus is the wife of Santa Claus, the Christmas gift-bringer in उत्तर अमरीकी और यूरोपीय क्रिसमस परंपरा.
She is known for making cookies with the elves और तैयारी खिलौने साथ उसके husband Santa Claus.
Her first name is a mystery, though she रै महरूम referred to as मरियम, जेसिका, layla, annette, हीदी, or Martha.
HijackThis ( also HiJackThis or HJT ) is an open source enumerating tool for Microsoft Windows originally निर्मित by merijn bellekom, और बाद बेची to ट्रेंड Micro.
The program is notable for लक्ष्यीकरण browser-hijacking विधि, बल्कि than relying on a database of known spyware.
It scans a उपयोक्ता 's कंप्यूटर जल्दी, और प्रदर्शक ब्राउजर hijacking स्थितियाँ, showing what entries are there.
HijackThis is used primarily for निदान of ब्राउजर hijacking, as uninformed उपयोग of its removal facilities can cause significant software damage to a computer.
HijackThis does not remove or detect spyware ; it lists most common locations where ब्राउजर hijacking कार्यकलाप can occur.
Browser hijacking can कारण मैलवेयर to be installed on a computer.
On February 16, 2012, Trend Micro released the HijackThis सोर्स कोड as खोलें सोर्स और it is अभी उपलब्धियाँ on the sourceforge site.
Saddle Creek रिकॉर्ड is an अमरीकी रिकार्ड लेबल based in Omaha, Nebraska.
Started as a college class project on entrepreneurship, the लेबल थी संस्थापित by माइक mogis और जस्टिन Oberst in 1993 ( as Lumberjack Records ).
Mogis soon turned over उसके भूमिका in the कम्पनी to Robb Nansel.
The label is named after Saddle Creek Road, a street that cuts through the east side of midtown Omaha, and the beginnings of a scene whose members included Conor Oberst ( then a solo artist, currently of उज्जवल आँखें, conor oberst और the रहस्यवादी घाटी बैंड, desaparecidos और राक्षस of लोक ), टिम kasher ( तब of slowdown वर्जिनिया, फिलहाल of Cursive and The Good Life ), and others.
Collectively, they were known unofficially as the `` creekers ''.
काठी क्रीक पहला appeared in छपाई on a दिखाएँ flyer, offering to `` Spend an evening with Saddle Creek '' ( later to be the title of the label 's DVD. )
Saddle Creek became an incorporated entity as a परिणाम of a क्लास प्रोजेक्ट on उद्यमिता.
Distribution is handled by the Alternative Distribution गठबंधन, जिससे is अंतर्गत the warner Music Group umbrella.
Saddle Creek Records continues to be the फ्लैगशिप लेबल of a स्टाइल of म्यूज़िक पुकारा `` the ओमाहा Sound ``, characterized by a slight country twang.
This is increasingly inaccurate, हालांकि, साथ the वृद्धि of अधिक इलेक्ट्रॉनिक ध्वनि ऐसे as those favored by The Faint and Broken Spindles.
The eclectic sounds of Saddle Creek 's disparate member bands is somewhat explained by their history ; a क्रमांक of the असली सदस्यों of the लेबल attended grade school together.
A `` sister label '', of sorts, to Saddle Creek is टोली प्रेम, प्रारंभ by conor oberst in 2004.
The label opened arms to their पहला bands नहीं आधारित in ओमाहा in 2001 साथ रिलीज by अभी it 's ओवरहेड and Sorry About Dresden.
Other non-Nebraskan artists followed, including Los Angeles 's Rilo Kiley, Eric Bachmann ( formerly leader of Archers of Loaf and Crooked उंगलियाँ इससे उत्तर कैरोलिना ), georgie जेम्स ( वॉशिंगटन d.C. ), दो gallants ( सैन फ्रांसिस्को ), and most recently Tokyo Police Club ( Toronto ).
In 2005, खर्च an संध्या साथ काठी क्रीक, a वृत्तचित्र detailing the first ten years of the record label 's history, was released.
The DVD features extensive interviews साथ the काठी क्रीक bands, archival फुटेज, और विरल सजीव प्रदर्शन.
On June 8, 2007, the label opened their अपना म्यूज़िक स्थान नामित slowdown ( बाद the समूह slowdown Virginia ), located in downtown Omaha, Nebraska.
The following is a सूची of एपीसोड लिये the टेलीविज़न show Full House.
In कुल, वहीँ यहूद 192 एपीसोड फिल्माया लिये the दिखाएँ over the कोर्स of its eight seasons, from 1987 to 1995.
Full House is a situation comedy which chronicles a विधवा पिता 's struggles of उठाने उसके तीन यंग बेटियां और the जीवनदान कि वे have छुआ.
The patriarch of the family, Danny ( Bob Saget ), आमंत्रण उसके brother-in-law जेसी ( जॉन stamos ) और उसके बेहतरीन dost जॉय ( डेव coulier ), to सहायता उठाएँ उसके children ( Candace Cameron, Jodie Sweetin, and Mary Kate/Ashley Olsen ), after his wife was killed during an automobile accident involving a drunk driver.
After episodes 88 and 89, Jesse marries बेकी ( लोरी loughlin ), और वे move into the attic.
Then, after episodes 104 and 105, Becky and Jesse have जुड़वा लड़कों नामित nicky और एलेक्स ( डेनियल और केविन renteria/blake और Dylan Tuomy-Wilhoit ).
The series ends with episode 192, `` Michelle यात्राएँ again भाग 2 '', जब मिशेल loses उसके मेमोरी और the परिवार कोशिशें to restore it.
Notice of स्टैम्प अधिनियम of 1765 in समाचारपत्र
American newspapers reacted to the स्टैम्प अधिनियम साथ गुस्सा और predictions of the demise of journalism.
The Stamp Act 1765 ( short title Duties in American Colonies Act 1765 ; 5 George III, c. 12 ) imposed a direct tax by the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट specifically on the colonies of अंग्रेजों अमेरिका, और it जरूरी कि अनेक मुद्रित सामग्री in the colonies be उत्पादित on stamped पेपर उत्पादित in लंदन, carrying an embossed आय स्टैम्प.
These printed materials were legal documents, magazines, newspapers and many other प्रकार of पेपर प्रयुक्त throughout the colonies.
Like previous taxes, the stamp tax had to be paid in मान्य अंग्रेजों करेंसी, नहीं in औपनिवेशिक paper money.
The purpose of the tax was to help pay for troops stationed in North अमेरिका बाद the अंग्रेजों विजय in the सात सालो ' युद्ध.
The British सरकारी लगा कि the colonies यहूद the प्राथमिक beneficiaries of this military presence, and should pay at least a portion of the expense.
The स्टैम्प अधिनियम मिले ग्रेट resistance in the colonies.
The colonies sent no प्रतिनिधि to पार्लियामेंट, और इसलिए था no influence over what taxes were raised, how they were levied, or how they would be spent.
Many colonists considered it a उल्लंघन of उनके अधिकारों as अंग्रेजो to be taxed बगैर their consent —consent that only the colonial legislatures could grant.
Colonial assemblies भेजा याचिकाएं और विरोध.
The Stamp Act Congress आयोजित in नई यॉर्क नगर, reflecting the पहला significant संयुक्त औपनिवेशिक response to any British measure, also petitioned Parliament and the King.
Local protest groups, led by औपनिवेशिक व्यापारियों और landowners, स्थापित कनेक्शन्स through पत्राचार that created a loose coalition that extended from New England to Georgia.
Protests and demonstrations initiated by the बेटे of स्वतंत्रता प्रायः turned violent and destructive as the masses became involved.
Very soon all stamp tax distributors यहूद सहमे into resigning उनके commissions, and the tax was never effectively collected.
Opposition to the Stamp Act was not सीमित to the colonies.
British merchants and manufacturers, whose exports to the colonies यहूद threatened by औपनिवेशिक आर्थिक समस्याएं exacerbated by the tax, also pressured Parliament.
The Act was repealed on कूच 18, 1766 as a पदार्थ of expedience, लकिन पार्लियामेंट affirmed its power to legislate for the colonies “in all cases whatsoever” by also passing the Declaratory Act.
वहीँ followed a श्रेणी of नई कर और regulations, likewise opposed by the colonists.
the एपीसोड निभाई a प्रमुख भूमिका in धमक the grievances और enabling the व्यवस्थित colonial resistance that led to the American Revolution in 1775.
PT-105 underway.
PT boats were a variety of torpedo-armed तेज़ आक्रमण शिल्प प्रयुक्त by the United States Navy in World War II to attack larger surface ships.
`` PT '' is the US hull classification प्रतीक लिये `` पैट्रोल torpedo ''.
The PT boat squadrons were nicknamed `` the मच्छर बेड़े ''.
The Japanese पुकारा उन्हें `` शैतान नौकाएँ ''.
The original pre– World War I torpedo नौकाएँ यहूद designed साथ `` विस्थापन '' hulls.
They displaced up to 300 टन और the शीर्ष गति was.
The PT boats used in संसार युद्ध ii यहूद निर्मित using the planing -type hull form developed for racing boats.
They were much छोटी ( 30–75 टन ) और तेज़ ( 35–40 knots ).
Both types यहूद designed to स्ट्राइक at larger warships साथ torpedoes, using अपेक्षाकृत high speed to get close, and small size to avoid being spotted and hit by gunfire.
They were much less महंगी than विशाल warships.
PT boats यहूद much तेज़, छोटी, और सस्ता than conventional ( displacement hull ) vessels.
During World War II, American PT boats engaged enemy destroyers and numerous अन्य सतह शिल्प, ranging इससे छोटी नौकाएँ to विशाल सप्लाई जहाजों.
PT boats also operated as gunboats against enemy small शिल्प, ऐसे as कराया barges प्रयुक्त by the जापानी forces for inter-island transport.
Good शुक्रवार is a धार्मिक अवकाश observed primarily by ईसाइयों commemorating the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and his death at Calvary.
The holiday is observed during Holy Week as part of the paschal triduum on the शुक्रवार preceding ईस्टर संडे, और may coincide with the Jewish observance of Passover.
It is also known as Holy Friday, Great Friday, Black Friday, or ईस्टर शुक्रवार, हालांकि the latter properly refers to the Friday in Easter week.
Based on the details of the Canonical gospels, the crucifixion of यीशु थी सबसे संभावित to have been on a Friday ( the day before the Sabbath ) ( ).
The estimated year of the Crucifixion is AD 33, by two different groups, and originally as AD 34 by Isaac Newton via the differences between the biblical और जूलियन पंचांग और the crescent of the moon.
A तीसरा विधि, using a completely अलग खगोलीय दृष्टिकोण आधारित on a चंद्र crucifixion darkness and eclipse model ( consistent with Apostle Peter 's reference to a `` moon of blood '' in Acts 2:20 ), points to Friday, 3 April AD 33.
The Great Basin is the largest area of endorheic watersheds in उत्तर America.
It is noted for both its arid conditions and इसके जलाशय और दायरा स्थलाकृति कि varies इससे the उत्तर अमरीकी कम पाइंट at badwater जलाशय to the highest point of the contiguous United States, less than away at the summit of Mount Whitney.
The region spans अनेक physiographic विभाजन, biomes / ecoregions, and deserts.
Raster may refer to:
Raster graphics, आलेखीय तकनीकों using arrays of pixel values
रास्टर ग्राफिक्स एडिटर, a कंप्यूटर program
Raster scan, the pattern of चित्र readout, हस्तांतरण, भंडार, और reconstruction in television and computer images
Rasterisation, or rasterization, परिवर्तन of a वेक्टर चित्र to a raster image
Raster image processor, or RIP, a component of a मुद्रण प्रणाली कि performs rasterisation
Raster इन्टरनेट, a कंप्यूटर interrupt signal
Raster to वेक्टर, an चित्र परिवर्तन process
Raster bar, an प्रभाव प्रयुक्त in कंप्यूटर demos
raster-noton, a रिकार्ड label
Rastrum, a device used in मध्यकालीन म्यूज़िक पांडुलिपियों to चित्रण स्टाफ lines
रास्टर दस्तावेज़ Object, a file format
Beowulf ( ; Old English : ) is a legendary geatish नायिका और बाद turned किंग in the एपिक कविता नामित after him, one of the oldest surviving pieces of literature in the English language.
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( पुकारा हवाई आपरेशन or आपरेशन ai by the जापानी इम्पीरियल सामान्य मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन z in नियोजन ) और the बैटल of पर्ल हार्बर ) थी a आश्चर्य सैन्य स्ट्राइक conducted by the इम्पीरियल Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on the morning of December 7, 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ).
From the standpoint of the defenders, the आक्रमण commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time.
The attack was intended as a निवारक कार्रवाई in अनुक्रम to रखना the u.S. प्रशांत बेड़े इससे दखल साथ सैन्य क्रियाएँ the साम्राज्य of जापानी थी नियोजन in southeast एशिया विरूद्ध overseas territories of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and the United States.
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese सेनानी, बमवर्षक और torpedo planes in दो लहरें, शुभारम्भ from six aircraft carriers.
All eight U.S. Navy battleships यहूद क्षतिग्रस्त, with four being sunk.
Two of these were बाद उठाया, और साथ the बाकी चार repaired, छह battleships लौटे to service later in the war.
The Japanese also sank or क्षतिग्रस्त तीन cruisers, तीन destroyers, an anti-aircraft प्रशिक्षण जलयान, और one minelayer.
188 U.S. वायुयान यहूद नष्ट ; 2,402 Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded.
Important base installations such as the power station, shipyard, maintenance, और ईंधन और torpedo भंडार सुविधाएं, as खूब as the पनडुब्बी पियर और मुख्यालय भवन ( भी घर of the प्रज्ञा section ) were not attacked.
Japanese losses यहूद लाइट : 29 वायुयान और पाँच midget submarines खोया, and 65 servicemen killed or wounded.
One Japanese sailor was captured.
The attack came as a profound shock to the American people and led directly to the अमरीकी प्रविष्टि into संसार युद्ध ii in दोनो the Pacific and European theaters.
The following दिन ( दिसम्बर 8 ), the United States declared war on Japan.
Domestic support for non-interventionism, जिससे था महरूम दमदार, disappeared.
Clandestine support of Britain ( for example the neutrality पैट्रोल ) थी replaced by क्रियाशील गठबंधन.
subsequent परिचालन by the u.S. prompted जर्मनी और इटली to घोषित युद्ध on the u.S. on December 11, which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day.
There were numerous ऐतिहासिक precedents लिये unannounced military action by Japan.
However, the lack of any formal warning, particularly while negotiations were still जाहिर जारी, led अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट to proclaim दिसम्बर 7, 1941, `` a date which will live in infamy ``.
U.S. Route 85 ( US 85 ) is a north–south संयुक्त राज्य राजमार्ग कि रनों लिये in the पहाड़ - उत्तरी मैदान राज्य of the United States.
The southern terminus of the route is at the United states-mexico किनारा in el पासो, टेक्सास, connecting with Mexican Federal Highway 45.
The उत्तरी टर्मिनस is at the संयुक्त states-canada border in Fortuna, North Dakota, where the route continues north as Saskatchewan Highway 35.
In both the United States and Saskatchewan, Canada the रूट is ज्ञात as the canam राजमार्ग.
Sections of us 85 हैं माना भाग of the Theodore Roosevelt Expressway.
The United States presidential election of 1968 थी the 46th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव, आयोजित on मंगलवार, November 5, 1968.
The Republican nominee, former Vice-President Richard निक्सन, जीती the चुनाव over the लोकतांत्रिक nominee, incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey.
Nixon ran on a campaign that promised to restore विधि और अनुक्रम to the स्वदेश 's शहरों, फटा by दंगे and crime.
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning चुनाव as it permanently disrupted the नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि था वर्चस्व अध्यक्षीय politics for 36 years.
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide, the चुनाव देखी the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष मजबूर आउट of the रेस और a रिपब्लिकन elected for the first time in twelve years.
It was a wrenching national experience, conducted during a year of violence that शामिल the हत्या of सिविल अधिकारों नेता मार्टिन लूथर किंग, jr., और subsequent रेस दंगे आरपार the स्वदेश, the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी रॉबर्ट F. Kennedy, widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses, and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again.
The election featured the strongest तीसरा पार्टी प्रयत्न चूंकि 1912 by पूर्व अलबामा Governor George Wallace, a Democrat.
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the South to end स्कूल पृथक्करण, he carried the गहन दक्षिण और भागा खूब in जातीय औद्योगिक जिले in the North.
This was the last चुनाव in जिससे नई यॉर्क था the सबसे मत in the electoral college ( 43 votes ).
After the 1970 census, कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained the सबसे चुनावी मत और रै remained the most populous state since then.
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won without carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी 's घर state.
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or प्रणाली मॉनिटर अनुप्रयोग शामिल साथ the microsoft खिड़कियाँ nt परिवार of ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों कि provides सीमित सूचना परिचय कंप्यूटर प्रदर्शन और कार्यशील अनुप्रयोग, प्रक्रियाओं और cpu उपयोग, कमिट चार्ज और मेमोरी सूचना, संजाल कार्यकलाप and statistics, logged-in users, and system services ( and as often is the case with software tools provided by Microsoft for Windows, 3rd party software is available which fills the requirements more thoroughly, e.g, `` Process Explorer '', `` Extended Task Manager '', `` Anvir Task Manager '', `` Process Hacker '', and `` System Explorer '' ).
The Task Manager can also be used to set प्रक्रम प्राथमिकताएं, प्रोसेसर अपनापन, forcibly terminate प्रक्रियाओं, और shut bas, restart, hibernate or log off from Windows.
Windows Task मैनेजर थी introduced साथ खिड़कियाँ NT 4.0.
Previous versions of Windows NT included the Task सूची अनुप्रयोग, जिससे था दूर कम सुविधाएँ.
The task list was capable of listing currently running प्रक्रियाओं और हत्या उन्हें, or बनाना a new process.
In Windows XP only, a shutdown मेनू is भी उपस्थित कि allows अभिगम to Standby, Hibernate, Turn off, Restart, Log Off and Switch User.
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft खिड़कियाँ 3.x, खिड़कियाँ 95, खिड़कियाँ 98 ) था a कार्यक्रम ज्ञात as कार्य to प्रदर्शक the कार्यक्रम currently running.
This file was executed by कार्यशील the taskman.exe संचिका इससे the c : \Windows directory.
Kanji ( ; ) are the adopted logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) that are used in the modern Japanese writing system along with hiragana ( ひらがな, ), katakana ( カタカナ, ), hindu-arabic numerals, और the occasional उपयोग of the लैटिन alphabet.
The Japanese term kanji ( ) for the Chinese characters वस्तुतः अर्थात् `` हान वर्ण '' और is लिखा using the same characters as the Chinese hanzi ( ).
John r विलियम्स ( may 4, 1782 – अक्तूबर 20, 1854 ) थी an अमरीकी सिपाही, व्यापारी, और राजनेता who is most well known for serving as the first mayor of Detroit, Michigan.
In total, he परोसा as डेट्रॉयट 's महापौर for five other terms.
He also थी a ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य in the United States Army during the Black Hawk War.
A simple शुष्क चुम्बकीय portable compass.
A smartphone कि can be प्रयुक्त as a कम्पास क्युकी of the magnetometer inside.
An iPhone that can be प्रयुक्त as a geological कम्पास क्युकी of the 3-axis teslameter और 3-axis accelerometer inside it
A military compass that was used दौरान संसार युद्ध I.
A compass is a navigational instrument that shows दिशानिर्देश in a फ़्रेम of सन्दर्भ कि is stationary सापेक्ष to the surface of the earth.
The frame of reference defines the चार कार्डिनल दिशानिर्देश ( or अंक ) – उत्तर, दक्षिण, east, and west.
इंटरमीडिएट दिशानिर्देश are also defined.
Usually, a diagram called a compass rose, जिससे shows the दिशानिर्देश ( साथ उनके names प्रायः abbreviated to initials ), is marked on the compass.
When the compass is in use, the rose is aligned with the real दिशानिर्देश in the फ़्रेम of सन्दर्भ, so, लिये उदाहरण, the `` n '' चिह्नित on the रोज़ वाकई अंक to the north.
Frequently, in जोड to the रोज़ or sometimes बजाय of it, कोण markings in degrees are shown on the compass.
North corresponds to zero degrees, और the कोण बढ़ाएँ clockwise, so ईस्ट is 90 degrees, south is 180, and west is 270.
These numbers allow the compass to show azimuths or बियरिंग, जिससे हैं commonly stated in इस संकेतन.
The magnetic compass was पहला invented as a यंत्र लिये भविष्यवाणी as early as the Chinese Han Dynasty ( Since about 206 BC ).
The compass was used in Song Dynasty China by the सैन्य लिये navigational orienteering by 1040-1044, and was used for maritime navigation by 1111 to 1117.
the उपयोग of a कम्पास is अंकित in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय between 1187 and 1202, and in Persia in 1232.
The dry कम्पास थी invented in यूरोपीय around 1300.
इस थी supplanted in the जल्दी 20th सदी by the liquid-filled magnetic compass.
The Inca Empire or Inka Empire ( Quechua : tawantinsuyu ) थी the largest साम्राज्य in pre-Columbian America.
The administrative, political and military center of the साम्राज्य थी स्तिथ in कुज़्को in modern-day पेरू.
The Inca civilization arose from the highlands of पेरू sometime in the जल्दी 13th century.
From 1438 to 1533, the Incas used a variety of methods, from conquest to peaceful assimilation, to incorporate a large portion of western South America, centered on the Andean mountain ranges, including, besides Peru, large parts of modern Ecuador, western and south सेंट्रल बोलीविया, उत्तरपश्चिम अर्जेंटीना, उत्तर और सेंट्रल चिली, और दक्षिणी कोलंबिया into a राज्य comparable to the historical empires of Eurasia.
The official language of the empire was Quechua, although hundreds of लोकल भाषाएं और dialects of quechua यहूद बोला.
The Inca referred to their साम्राज्य as tawantinsuyu जिससे can be अनूदित as the चार Regions or The Four United Provinces.
There were many local forms of worship, most of them concerning local sacred `` Huacas ``, but the Inca leadership encouraged the इबादत of inti —the सूर्य god—and imposed इसके प्रभुता ऊपर अन्य cults ऐसे as कि of pachamama.
The Incas considered their King, the Sapa इन्का, to be the `` चाइल्ड of the सूर्य. ''
The kidneys are organs that serve several अनिवार्य नियामक भूमिकाएँ in सबसे पशु, सहित vertebrates और कुछ invertebrates.
They are essential in the urinary system and भी serve homeostatic कृत्यों ऐसे as the विनियमन of इलेक्ट्रोलाइट्स, मेंटेनेंस of acid–base balance, and regulation of blood pressure ( via maintaining salt and water balance ).
They serve the body as a natural filter of the blood, and हटाएँ wastes जिससे हैं diverted to the urinary bladder.
In producing urine, the गुर्दे excrete wastes ऐसे as यूरिया और अमोनियम, और वे हैं भी जिम्मेदार for the reabsorption of water, glucose, and amino acids.
the गुर्दे भी उपज हार्मोन सहित calcitriol, erythropoietin, and the enzyme renin.
Located at the पश्च of the abdominal गुहा in the retroperitoneum, the kidneys receive blood from the paired renal arteries, and drain into the paired renal veins.
Each kidney excretes urine into a ureter, itself a युग्म structure that empties into the urinary bladder.
Renal physiology is the study of गुर्दा फलन, जबकि nephrology is the चिकित्सा specialty concerned with kidney diseases.
Diseases of the गुर्दा हैं विविध, लकिन individuals साथ गुर्दा बीमारी frequently display characteristic clinical features.
Common clinical conditions involving the kidney include the nephritic और nephrotic syndromes, renal cysts, अधि गुर्दा चोट, दीर्घकालिक गुर्दा बीमारी, urinary ट्रैक्ट संक्रमण, nephrolithiasis, and urinary tract obstruction.
Various cancers of the गुर्दा मौजूद ; the सबसे आम वयस्क renal cancer is renal cell carcinoma.
cancers, cysts, और कुछ अन्य renal शर्तें can be managed with removal of the kidney, or nephrectomy.
When renal function, measured by glomerular filtration रेट, is persistently ग़रीब, डायलिसिस और गुर्दा प्रत्यारोपण may be treatment options.
Although they are not severely नुकसानदेह, गुर्दा पत्थरों can be दुखद और a nuisance.
The removal of kidney stones involves ultrasound treatment to break up the stones into छोटी टुकड़े, जिससे हैं तब passed through the urinary tract.
One आम लक्षण of गुर्दा पत्थरों is a शार्प pain in the medial/lateral segments of the lower back.
Lockton Companies Inc. is the world 's largest privately held बीमे brokerage कड़, providing बीमे, रिस्क प्रबन्धन और कर्मचारी लाभ solutions.
In जोड to इसके कान्सास नगर, मिसौरी headquarters, Lockton operates 60 locations in 17 countries.
lockton is फिलहाल घर to अधिक than 4,450 Associates worldwide.
The company was founded by Jack Lockton in 1966 and has since become the world’s 9th largest बीमे brokerage firm.
lockton serves a चौड़ी सरणी of उद्योग साथ सेवाएं कि शामिल risk management, casualty, surety, professional indemnity and more.
लिये 46 सालो, lockton posted असाधारण सशुल्क विकास, with global revenues reaching $ 915 million in fiscal 2012.
Lockton Benefits Group : Lockton’s Employee Benefit’s team works closely साथ बीमे वाहक और प्रशासकों to बनाएँ व्यापक और एकीकृत लाभ strategies for clients.
The Lockton लाभ समूह provides सेवाएं सहित अनुपालन, कार्यपालिका लाभ, health and welfare, health risk solutions, retirement and more.
Lockton Affinity : Lockton Affinity, an affiliate of Lockton कंपनियाँ, meets the बीमे needs of अपनापन समूह, franchises, पेशेवर संगठन, और एसोसिएशन of सब sizes.
Lockton Affinity offers a variety of बीमे उत्पाद विकल्प और कार्यक्रम.
Products include : General Liability, Professional Liability, प्रॉपर्टी, मजदूर मुआवजे, निर्देशकों & अधिकारियों देयता, वाणिज्यिक स्वचालित, specialty Coverage, Excess, Health Plans and more.
Lockton International : Lockton International operates कार्यालयों in the uk और आयरलैंड, as खूब as कार्यालयों throughout Asia and Latin America.
In Europe, Lockton International is a partner in EOS RISQ, Europe’s leading बीमे ब्रोकिंग और रिस्क प्रबन्धन consultancy.
EOS RISQ is an equity-based European partnership of major independent बीमे brokers साथ over 3,500 कर्मचारी आधारित in अधिक than 30 countries in Europe.
Lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय provides specialized समाधान लिये निजी lines, SME’s and major multi-national clients.
White chocolate is a चॉकलेट डेरिवेटिव.
it commonly consists of cocoa मक्खन, शुगर, मिल्क solids और salt, and is characterized by a pale yellow or ivory appearance.
The melting point of cocoa मक्खन, इसके प्राथमिक cocoa सेम घटक, is ऊँची पर्याप्त to keep white chocolate solid at room temperature.
Donald Leon `` Don '' blankenship ( born कूच 14, 1950 ) थी अध्यक्ष और सीईओ of massey उर्जा co., the छठे largest कोयले कम्पनी ( by 2008 production ) in the United States.
He served in those भूमिकाएँ इससे नवम्बर 30, 2000, जबतक दिसम्बर 31, 2010.
Blankenship is an active financial backer of the Republican पार्टी और भागीदार in लोकल और राज्य राजनीती, विशेषकर in उसके घर राज्य of वेस्ट Virginia.
He has frequently बोला आउट सरेआम परिचय राजनीती, the पर्यावरण, unions, and coal production.
U.S. प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग filings दिखाएँ blankenship थी सशुल्क $ 17.8 लाख in 2009, the highest in the coal industry.
His 2009 pay represents a $ 6.8 लाख उठाएँ over 2008 और लगभग दोगुना उसके मुआवजे package in 2007.
Blankenship also received a deferred मुआवजे पैकेज valued at $ 27.2 million in 2009.
on दिसम्बर 3, 2010, blankenship घोषित कि he थी retiring as सीईओ at the समाप्त of the साल, and would be succeeded by Massey President Baxter F. Phillips Jr.
Bow Wow is एक of the transcriptions प्रयुक्त in अंग्रेज़ी to describe a dog 's bark.
धनुष wow may भी refer to:
Bow wow ( बैंड ), a जापानी hard rock/heavy metal band
Bow Wow ( rapper ), an अमरीकी rapper और actor
Bow Wow Sauce, a सॉस विकसित in the cotswolds region of England
Bow wow wow, a UK new wave band
`` Bow Wow '', a song by The fiery furnaces इससे उनके 2003 एल्बम Gallowsbird 's Bark
`` Bow Wow Blues ( My Mama Treat Me like a Dog ) '', a सोंग रचित in the 1920s by चट्टान Friend & Nat Osborne
Negligence ( Lat. negligentia, from neglegere, to उपेक्षा, वस्तुतः `` नहीं to चुनें up कुछ '' ) is a विफलता to कसरत the परवाह कि a reasonably prudent person would exercise in like circumstances.
The area of tort law known as negligence involves नुक़सान caused by carelessness, नहीं जानबूझकर harm.
According to Jay M. feinman of the rutgers University School of Law ;
`` The कोर विचार of लापरवाही is कि लोगों चाहिए कसरत उचित परवाह जब वे अधिनियम by लेने खाता of the संभावित harm that they might foreseeably cause harm to other people. ''
`` those who go personally or bring प्रॉपर्टी जहाँ वे जान कि वे or it may आइये into टक्कर साथ the व्यक्तियों or property of others have by law a duty cast upon them to use reasonable care and skill to avoid such a collision. ''
Fletcher v Rylands ( [ 1866 ] lr 1 ex 265 )
Through civil litigation, if an injured person proves कि another व्यक्ति acted negligently to कारण उनके चोट, they can recover damages to compensate for their harm.
Proving a case for negligence can potentially entitle the injured plaintiff to compensation लिये नुक़सान to उनके देह, प्रॉपर्टी, दिमागी well-being, वित्तीय औकात, or अंतरंग relationships.
However, because negligence cases are very fact-specific, इस सामान्य परिभाषा करता नहीं fully बताइये the अवधारणा of जब the विधि होगा require one person to compensate another for losses caused by accidental injury.
Further, the law of negligence at common law is only एक पहलू of the विधि of देयता.
Although resulting damages must be proven in order to recover compensation in a लापरवाही कार्रवाई, the प्रकृति और extent of those क्षतिपूर्ति हैं नहीं the प्राथमिक फ़ोकस of लापरवाही cases.
A melanocytic nevus ( also known as `` Nevocytic nevus '' ) is a प्रकार of lesion कि contains nevus कोशिकाएं ( a प्रकार of melanocyte ).
Some स्त्रोत equate the term mole with `` melanocytic nevus ''.
Other sources reserve the पद `` mole '' लिये other purposes.
The majority of औज़ार appear दौरान the पहला दो दशकों of a person’s life, while about one in every 100 babies is born with moles.
Acquired moles हैं a रूप of benign फुलाव, जबकि जन्मजात औज़ार, or जन्मजात nevi, are considered a minor malformation or hamartoma and may be at a higher risk for melanoma.
A mole can be either subdermal ( under the skin ) or a pigmented विकास on the स्किन, formed ज़्यादातर of a प्रकार of कोशिका ज्ञात as a melanocyte.
The high concentration of the body’s pigmenting एजेंट, मेलेनिन, is जिम्मेदार for their dark color.
औज़ार हैं a सदस्य of the परिवार of skin lesions known as nevi.
The व्यापक metabolic फलक, or रासायनिक screen, ( CMP ; CPT code 80053 ) is a panel of 14 blood tests which serves as an initial broad medical screening tool.
The CMP provides a rough check of kidney फलन, जिगर फलन, और electrolyte और द्रव संतुलन, लकिन it is far from perfect.
Abnormal values from a CBC may be a परिणाम of गलत positives और यूँ the CBC may need to be repeated for a patient ( or replaced with a more specific test ).
The CMP is an विस्तारित संस्करण of the मौलिक metabolic फलक ( bmp ), which does not include liver tests.
A CMP ( or BMP ) can be ordered as part of a routine शारीरिक परिक्षा, or may be प्रयुक्त to मॉनिटर a रोगी साथ a दीर्घकालिक बीमारी, such as diabetes mellitus or hypertension.
Previous names for the panel of tests have been Chem 12, रसायन फलक, रसायन स्क्रीन, sma 12, sma 20 और smac ( sequential अनेक विश्लेषण - कंप्यूटर ).
The परीक्षण हैं performed on मशीने आधारित on the AutoAnalyzer invented in 1957.
Natural gas extraction by देशों in घन मीटर प्रति साल.
Natural gas is a naturally occurring hydrocarbon gas mixture consisting primarily of methane, लकिन commonly सहित varying amounts of अन्य hydrocarbons, कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड, नाइट्रोजन, और हाइड्रोजन sulfide.
Natural gas is an energy सोर्स प्रायः प्रयुक्त लिये हीटिंग, कुकिंग, and electricity generation.
It is also used as fuel for vehicles and as a रासायनिक फर्टिलाइजर in the manufacture of प्लास्टिक और अन्य commercially important organic chemicals.
Natural gas is found in deep underground natural rock formations or संबद्ध साथ अन्य हाइड्रोकार्बन टंकी in कोयले beds और as मिथेन clathrates.
पेट्रोलियम is भी another resource found in proximity to and with natural gas.
Most natural gas was created over समय by दो mechanisms : biogenic और thermogenic.
Biogenic gas is निर्मित by methanogenic जीवों in marshes, bogs, landfills, and shallow sediments.
Deeper in the earth, at greater तापमान और दबाव, thermogenic गैस is निर्मित from buried organic material.
Before natural gas can be used as a fuel, it must undergo processing to हटाएँ impurities, सहित जल, to मिलें the विशेषताएँ of marketable प्राकृतिक गैस.
The by-products of processing include ethane, propane, butanes, pentanes, and higher molecular weight hydrocarbons, hydrogen sulfide ( जिससे may be परिवर्तित into pure गंधक ), कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड, जल वाष्प, और sometimes हीलियम और nitrogen.
प्राकृतिक गैस is प्रायः informally referred to बस as gas, especially when compared to other energy sources such as oil or coal.
This page is about the कल्पना मूवर्स band.
For सूचना परिचय the tv दिखाएँ अभिनीत the band, see Imagination Movers ( TV series ).
Imagination मूवर्स is a बैंड formed in नई Orleans, Louisiana, in 2003.
The लाइनअप शामिल समृद्ध कॉलिन्स, स्कॉट durbin, Dave Poche, and Scott `` Smitty '' Smith.
Members of the group यहूद longtime friends and neighbors.
The group started as a television/music concept which was pitched to लोकल pbs affiliates in नई ऑरलियन्स.
WLAE-TV was the first to take an interest in the group and later introduced them to बेथ कोर्टनी, the अध्यक्ष & मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी at louisiana पब्लिक प्रसारण.
Soon after, LPB began airing one-minute वीडियो उत्पादित by the कल्पना मूवर्स themselves.
The Movers built a sizable regional following by सेटिंग शैक्षणिक गीतों लिये बच्चे to melodies और लय that adults appreciate as well.
They sold more than 100,000 copies of their self-produced cds और dvds.
Their three indie CDs : `` Good Ideas, '' `` Calling All Movers, '' and `` Eight Feet '' along with their grass roots DVD `` Stir It Up '' have, संयुक्त, जीती चौदह नेशनल पुरस्कार, इससे ऐसे समूह as the नेशनल संघ of परवरिश publications ( nappa ) और अभिभावक ' चुनाव.
in जल्दी 2005, डिज़्नी took सूचना, और initiated negotiations to add the Movers to the company 's roster.
These were interrupted in August when the flood सुरक्षा designed और निर्मित by the फौज corps of इंजीनियर्स to protect New Orleans failed.
The resulting floodwater claimed the band 's दफ्तर, as खूब as the घरों of कॉलिन्स, durbin और poche – लकिन the deal was signed in the spring of 2006.
In 2008, वॉल्ट डिज़्नी रिकॉर्ड introduced the कल्पना मूवर्स ' म्यूज़िक to the स्वदेश साथ the release of the Movers ' first nationally-released CD, `` Juice Box Heroes. ''
In September 2008, a 30-minute show featuring the group began airing on the डिज़्नी चैनल 's प्रीस्कूल प्रोग्रामिंग ब्लाक ज्ञात as playhouse डिज़्नी, and currently airs on Playhouse Disney 's replacement, Disney Junior.
The Movers लिखें और perform सब the गीतों on their show.
Moreover, the Imagination Movers have प्राप्त नाजुक kudos लिये उनके सजीव कॉन्सर्ट प्रदर्शन.
In October 2009, the कल्पना मूवर्स प्रारंभ the `` सजीव इससे the Idea Warehouse Concert Tour 2009 ''.
Traveling from mid-October to mid-December 2009 their सजीव प्रदर्शन शामिल लोट of उनके पसंदीदा गीतों और नाचना, as खूब as वीडियो दिखावे of Warehouse Mouse.
Beginning in early-February 2011 and wrapping up in late May 2011, the कल्पना मूवर्स प्रस्तुत उनके `` in a बिग गोदाम Concert Tour, '' playing more than 100 shows in 50+ cities across North America.
From March to October 2012, the कल्पना मूवर्स toured उत्तर अमेरिका on उनके post-Disney `` Rock-O-Matic '' tour.
The show maintained several elements of the असली tv अवधारणा, ऐसे as an on-stage `` विचार आपात '' और अनेक सेट इससे उनके पुरानी catalogue ; however, with the departure of Wendy Calio back to her native Hawaii, the character `` Nina '', along with her musical numbers, is not present.
The tour promotes the Imagination मूवर्स ' नई album/dvd रिलीज, `` rock-o-matic '', जिससे सुविधाएँ all new music from the band.
The album itself is उत्पादित independently of डिज़्नी और रै a notably अधिक वयस्क, समकालीन rock-and-roll sound, though still very appropriate for children.
Several performance dates were moved to बाद in 2012 to लाभ इससे the increased एक्सपोज़र of the Imagination Movers TV show now playing daily on Disney Junior.
The platypus ( ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to eastern Australia, including Tasmania.
Together with the four species of एकिडना, it is एक of the पाँच extant प्रजाति of monotremes, the तभी स्तनधारियों that lay eggs instead of giving birth.
It is the sole living representative of its family ( ornithorhynchidae ) और genus ( ornithorhynchus ), हालांकि a क्रमांक of related species have been found in the fossil record.
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying, duck -billed, beaver -tailed, otter -footed स्तनधारी मनोरथ यूरोपीय naturalists जब वे पहला encountered it, साथ कुछ considering it an elaborate fraud.
It is one of the few venomous mammals, the पुरूष platypus having a spur on the हिन्द पैर कि delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans.
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of विकासवादी जीवविज्ञान और a recognisable और iconic प्रतीक of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; it रै appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin.
The platypus is the एनिमल emblem of the state of New South Wales.
Until the early 20th सदी, it थी hunted लिये इसके फर, लकिन it is अभी सुरक्षित throughout its range.
Although खिलाते प्रजनन programmes have था तभी सीमित कामयाबी और the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution, it is not under any immediate threat.
the chupacabra or chupacabras (, इससे chupar `` to चूस '' और cabra `` goat '', literally `` goat sucker '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit parts of the Americas.
It is associated more recently with sightings of an allegedly अनजान एनिमल in प्यूर्टो रीको ( जहाँ ये sightings यहूद पहला reported ), Mexico, and the United States, especially in the latter 's Latin American communities.
The name comes from the animal 's reported आदत of attacking और पीने the रक्त of पशुधन, especially goats.
शारीरिक descriptions of the creature vary.
Eyewitness sightings have been claimed as early as 1995 in Puerto Rico, and have since महरूम reported as दूर उत्तर as maine, और as दूर दक्षिण as चिली, and even being spotted outside the Americas in countries like Russia and The Philippines.
It is supposedly a heavy creature, the आकार of a छोटी भालू, साथ a पंक्ति of कांटे reaching from the neck to the base of the tail.
Sighting रिपोर्ट्स of the chupacabra have महरूम disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking evidence, while most reports in northern Mexico and the southern United States have been verified as canids afflicted by mange.
Biologists and wildlife management officials दृश्य the chupacabra as a contemporary legend.
The North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) is an agreement signed by कनाडा, मैक्सिको, और the संयुक्त राज्य, बनाना a trilateral व्यापार bloc in उत्तर अमेरिका.
The agreement came into फ़ोर्स on जनवरी 1, 1994.
It superseded the Canada–United राज्य फ़्री व्यापार अनुबंध between the u.S., Canada, and Mexico
NAFTA has two supplements : the North American Agreement on पर्यावरणीय सहयोग ( naaec ) और the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation ( NAALC ).
Thermal comfort is the condition of mind कि expresses संतोष साथ the थर्मल पर्यावरण and is assessed by subjective evaluation ( ANSI / ASHRAE Standard 55 ).
maintaining इस मानक of थर्मल सुकून लिये occupants of इमारतें or other enclosures is one of the important goals of HVAC ( heating, ventilation, and air conditioning ) design engineers.
The Predicted Mean Vote ( pmv ) मॉडल स्टैंड among the सबसे पहचाना thermal comfort models.
It was developed using सिद्धान्त of ऊष्मा संतुलन और प्रायोगिक आंकड़ा collected in a controlled climate chamber under steady state conditions.
क्युकी the pmv मॉडल थी निकला इससे आंकड़ा एकत्रित in a नियंत्रित जलवायु, it is नहीं उपयुक्त लिये अनुप्रयोग in naturally ventilated spaces which often have high levels of air movement.
This shortcoming प्रेरित the विकास of a परिवार of अनुभवजन्य सांख्यिकीय मॉडल of thermal comfort in naturally ventilated spaces known as adaptive models.
Adaptive models of थर्मल सुकून consider occupants as dynamically interacting साथ उनके environment, and controlling their thermal comfort by means of clothing or window-opening and closing.
This is in contrast to thermal comfort in sealed buildings, in जिससे occupants अनुभव the पर्यावरण passively.
Thermal comfort is affected by heat conduction, संवहन, विकिरण, और evaporative heat loss.
Thermal comfort is maintained when the ऊष्मा उत्पन्न by इंसान चयापचय is अनुमत to dissipate, यूँ maintaining थर्मल संतुलन with the surroundings.
It has been long recognized that the sensation of अहसास hot or ठंडा is नहीं बस निर्भर on एयर तापमान alone.
Thermal comfort calculations according to ansi/ashrae मानक 55 can be freely performed with the CBE Thermal Comfort Tool for ASHRAE-55.
Durante degli Alighieri, बस referred to as दांते (, ; ; c. 1265–1321 ), थी a प्रमुख इतालवी कवि of the Middle Ages.
His Divine Comedy, originally called ' and later called ' by Boccaccio, is widely माना the महानतम साहित्यिक कार्य रचित in the Italian language and a masterpiece of world literature.
in इटली he is ज्ञात as ' ( `` the Supreme Poet '' ) or just '.
he, petrarch और boccaccio हैं भी ज्ञात as `` the three fountains '' or `` the three crowns ''.
Dante is also called the `` Father of the इतालवी भाषा ''.
मुख्यालय ( कोबे, Japan )
( ) is a tire and rubber company आधारित in जापानी.
it is भाग of the Sumitomo Group.
The company traces its origins to 1909, when the Sumitomo Group बना an निवेश in dunlop जापानी, the newly formed जापानी subsidiary of the British company Dunlop Rubber.
Over the years Sumitomo and Dunlop developed a close business relationship, and in 1963 the sumitomo समूह acquired कंट्रोल of dunlop जापानी और renamed it sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd.
In 1985, when Dunlop Rubber was taken over by BTR plc, the company acquired the automobile tire assets of Dunlop, सहित the सही to उपयोग the dunlop ब्रांड on ऑटोमोबाइल टायर.
The acquisition did not include the US and Australian व्यवसायों, जिससे यहूद separately स्वामित्व, लकिन in 1986 sumitomo भी acquired the dunlop टायर निगम of the US from its management.
In 1997, Sumitomo formed a joint venture with Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, by which Goodyear और sumitomo सहमत to manufacture टायर लिये प्रत्येक अन्य 's बाज़ार, सहित Dunlop branded tires.
As part of the agreement, Goodyear acquired 75 % interests in Dunlop Tyres, the uk कम्पनी जिससे sumitomo था formed, और in dunlop टायर Corporation.
goodyear और sumitomo भी बना निवेश in each other.
Today, the company makes a चौड़ी दायरा of रबर आधारित उत्पाद, सहित ऑटोमोबाइल tires, golf balls and tennis balls.
Microsoft Visual Studio Express is a set of freeware integrated विकास environments ( आईडीई ) विकसित by microsoft कि हैं lightweight संस्करण of the Microsoft Visual Studio product line.
एक्स्प्रेस संस्करण यहूद conceived beginning with Visual Studio 2005.
The idea of Express editions is to provide streamlined, easy-to-use और easy-to-learn ides लिये users other than professional software developers, such as hobbyists and students.
The Alps are one of the great mountain range systems of Europe stretching लगभग आरपार आठ अल्पाइन देशों इससे ऑस्ट्रिया और स्लोवेनियाई in the ईस्ट, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Germany, France to the west and Italy and Monaco to the south.
The mountains were formed over सैंकड़ों of लाखो of सालो as the अफ़्रीकी and Eurasian tectonic plates collided.
Extreme shortening caused by the event resulted in समुद्री sedimentary रॉक्स उठती by thrusting और फोल्डिंग into ऊँची पहाड़ peaks such as Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn.
Mont Blanc spans the french–italian किनारा, और at is the उच्चतम पहाड़ in the Alps.
The Alpine region area contains many peaks higher than, ज्ञात as the `` four-thousanders ``.
The altitude and size of the range affects the climate in यूरोपीय ; in the kyu वर्षण स्तर vary greatly और climatic शर्तें consist of distinct zones.
Wildlife such as ibex live in the higher चोटियों to elevations of, और पौधे ऐसे as edelweiss grow in रॉकी areas in lower elevations as well as in higher elevations.
Evidence of human habitation in the ऐल्प्स goes वापस to the paleolithic era.
A mummified man, संकल्पित to be 5,000 सालो बूढ़ा, थी खोजा on a glacier at the Austrian–Italian border in 1991.
By the 6th सदी bc, the सेल्टिक la tène culture was well established.
Hannibal may have crossed the ऐल्प्स साथ a झुंड of हाथियों, और the romans था settlements in the region.
In 1800 Napoleon crossed एक of the पहाड़ गुजरता साथ an army of 40,000.
The 18th and 19th centuries saw an influx of naturalists, writers, and artists, in particular the romantics, followed by the सुनहरी आयु of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the peaks.
In World युद्ध ii the तीसरा reich invaded the अल्पाइन देशों, साथ the एक्सेप्शन of स्विट्ज़रलैंड और liechtenstein ; Adolf Hitler kept a base of operation in the Bavarian Alps throughout the war.
The अल्पाइन प्रदेश रै a दमदार cultural identity.
The traditional संस्कृति of खेती, cheesemaking, और woodworking स्टिल exists in अल्पाइन गांवों, हालांकि the पर्यटक उद्योग began to grow जल्दी in the 20th सदी और विस्तारित greatly after World War II to become the dominant industry by the end of the century.
The Winter Olympic Games have महरूम hosted in the स्विस, फ्रेंच, इतालवी, Austrian and German Alps.
At present the region is home to 14 million people और रै 120 लाख सालाना visitors.
Lois patrice griffin ( née pewterschmidt ) is a अक्षर from the animated television series Family Guy.
She is voiced by लेखक एलेक्स borstein और पहला appeared on टेलीविज़न, साथ साथ the बाकी of the family in the 15-minute short on December 20, 1998.
Lois was created और designed by श्रेणी creator Seth MacFarlane.
MacFarlane was asked to pitch a पायलट to the फॉक्स प्रसारण कम्पनी आधारित on लैरी और स्टीव, a छोटी बना by macfarlane जिससे featured a middle-aged character named Larry and an intellectual dog, Steve.
After the pilot was दिए the ग्रीन लाइट, the griffin परिवार appeared on the episode `` Death Has a Shadow ``.
Lois is the mother of the griffin परिवार.
With her husband पीटर, वो रै था तीन children : Meg, Chris, and Stewie.
Lois is often portrayed as a stereotypical television mother, despite her admitting to होने a ड्रग उपयोक्ता, a recovering मेथ addict kleptomaniac.
Lois रै भी था अनेक अफेयर्स, एक of जिससे allegedly resulted in the conception of Meg.
She has appeared in other media relating to Family Guy—including a वीडियो खेल, commercials और books—and प्रेरित an संपूर्ण लकीर of merchandise.
Lois 's distinctive New York accent originated इससे a अक्षर in a स्टेज दिखाएँ कि एलेक्स borstein था performed in, जिससे थी largely प्रेरित by a relative who grew up on Long Island, New York.
Family हस्तांतरण of बास्क भाषा ( बास्क as आरंभिक language )
प्रतिशत of विद्यार्थी पंजीकृत in बास्क भाषा schools ( 2000–2005 ).
Location of the basque-language provinces within Spain and France
Basque ( endonym :, ) is the ancestral language of the Basque people, who inhabit the Basque Country, a प्रदेश spanning an क्षेत्रफल in northeastern स्पेन और southwestern फ़्रांस.
It is spoken by 27 % of basques in सब territories ( 714,136 आउट of 2,648,998 ).
Of these, 663,035 live in the Spanish part of the बास्क देश और the बाकी 51,100 सजीव in the French part.
In academic चर्चाएँ of the वितरण of बास्क in स्पेन और फ़्रांस, it is प्रथागत to refer to three ancient provinces in France and four Spanish provinces.
Native speakers are concentrated in a contiguous area including parts of the Spanish autonomous समुदायों of the बास्क देश और नावारा और in the पश्चिमी हाफ of the फ्रेंच département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques.
The Basque Autonomous Community is an administrative entity within the binational ethnographic Basque Country incorporating the traditional Spanish प्रांतों of biscay, gipuzkoa, और álava, जिससे retain उनके अस्तित्व as politico-administrative divisions.
These provinces and many areas of Navarre are heavily populated by ethnic Basques, but Basque was, at तनिक जबतक the 1990s, नहीं बोला as a देशी भाषा in सबसे of álava, पश्चिमी भाग of biscay और सेंट्रल and southern areas of Navarre, either because it had been replaced by Spanish along the centuries, in some areas, or because it had never been spoken there, in other areas.
In southwestern फ़्रांस, the प्राचीन basque-populated प्रांतों were Labourd, Lower Navarre, and Soule.
They and other regions were consolidated into a single département in 1790 अंतर्गत the नाम basses-pyrénées, a नाम जिससे persisted until 1970.
A मानकीकृत रूप of the बास्क भाषा, पुकारा euskara batua, थी विकसित by the बास्क Language Academy in the late 1960s.
euskara batua थी निर्मित so कि बास्क भाषा could be used—and easily समझा by सब बास्क speakers—in औपचारिक परिस्थितियों ( education, mass media, literature ), and this is its main use today.
The role of इस मानक बास्क भाषा depends on the भाषाई शैक्षणिक model of each region and each school.
In most areas of the स्पेनी बास्क देश, the शैक्षणिक मॉडल d, जहाँ सब विषय हैं सिखाया in बास्क, मगर `` स्पेनी language and literature '' ( which is taught in Spanish ) is now the predominant model.
In France, the Basque language school Seaska and the association for a bilingual ( Basque and French ) schooling ikasbi मिलें a चौड़ी दायरा of बास्क भाषा शैक्षणिक needs up to the छठे रूप, जबकि often struggling to surmount financial and administrative constraints.
Apart from this मानकीकृत संस्करण, वहीँ हैं पाँच प्रमुख बास्क dialects : bizkaian, gipuzkoan, और Upper Navarrese in Spain, and Navarrese–Lapurdian and Zuberoan ( in France ).
Although they take their names from the mentioned historic प्रांतों, the dialect सीमाएँ हैं नहीं congruent साथ प्रांत सीमाएँ.
The President, Directors and Company, of the Bank of the United States, commonly known as the First Bank of the United States, was a central bank, chartered for a पद of बीस सालो, by the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस on फ़रवरी 25, 1791.
Establishment of the Bank was शामिल in a three-part विस्तार of संघीय फिस्कल और मौद्रिक शक्ति ( साथ साथ a संघीय mint and excise taxes ) championed by Alexander Hamilton, first Secretary of the Treasury.
Hamilton believed a सेंट्रल बैंको थी जरुरी to stabilize और improve the स्वदेश 's क्रेडिट, और to improve handling of the financial business of the United States government under the newly enacted Constitution.
Officially proposed to the first session of the First Congress in 1790, Hamilton 's Bank faced फैली प्रतिरोध इससे प्रतिद्वंद्वियों of increased संघीय शक्ति.
Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson and James Madison led the opposition, which claimed कि the बैंको थी असंवैधानिक, और कि it benefited व्यापारियों और निवेशकों at the व्यय of the बहुमत of the population.
The पहला बैंको भवन is अभी a नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania within Independence National Historical Park.
James Wesley Marsters ( born August 20, 1962 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता and musician.
Marsters first came to the attention of the general public playing the लोकप्रिय अक्षर स्पाइक, a platinum-blond yobbish अंग्रेज़ी पिशाच in the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी buffy the पिशाच slayer और इसके spin-off series, Angel, from 1997 to 2004.
Since then, he रै गए on to खेल अन्य विज्ञान fiction भूमिकाएँ, ऐसे as the एलियन supervillain brainiac on the सुपरमैन -inspired श्रेणी smallville, the omnisexual time traveller Captain John Hart in British science-fiction show Torchwood and terrorist Barnabas Greeley in Sci fi 's Caprica.
Marsters appeared in a supporting भूमिका in the 2007 movie P.S.
I Love You and as the main विपक्षी, piccolo, in the 2009 काल्पनिक एडवेंचर फिल्मी dragonball Evolution.
he appeared as a पुनरावर्ती अक्षर in the पहला ऋतु of the revival of Hawaii 5-0.
In molecular biology, इंसान chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) is a हार्मोन उत्पादित by the fertilized egg after conception.
Later during pregnancy it is made by the developing placenta, और बाद by the placental घटक syncytiotrophoblast.
Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone ; therefore, elevated स्तर measured जब the रोगी is नहीं pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis.
However, it is not ज्ञात whether इस उत्पादन is a contributing कारण or an effect of tumorigenesis.
The pituitary एनॉलॉग of hcg, ज्ञात as luteinizing हार्मोन ( lh ), is उत्पादित in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages.
, the FDA has prohibited the sale of `` homeopathic '' और over the काउंटर hcg आहार उत्पाद और घोषित them fraudulent and illegal.
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter, known by her stage name Beyoncé ( ; born सितंबर 4, 1981 ), is an अमरीकी सिंगर, songwriter, dancer, and actress.
Born and raised in Houston, Texas, she performed in singing and dancing प्रतियोगिताओं as a चाइल्ड पहले forming in 1990 a समूह साथ केली Rowland and LaTavia Roberson that was eventually named Destiny 's Child.
Once signed to Columbia Records, the girls subsequently became one of the संसार 's best-selling लड़की समूह of सब समय.
The group was plagued by आतंरिक विरोध और विधिक turmoil और Knowles suffered from depression that lasted for a number of years.
During the group 's hiatus, Knowles released her debut solo album Dangerously in Love ( 2003 ), which अर्जित उसके पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार और रै बेची a कुल of 4.9 लाख नक़ल in the US alone.
It spawned Billboard number one singles `` Crazy in Love, '' माना by vh1 to be the `` महानतम सोंग of the 00 's, '' और `` Baby Boy. ''
Following the disbandment of Destiny 's Child in 2005, नॉलेस 's दूसरी सोलो एल्बम b'day ( 2006 ) contained the शीर्ष पाँच singles `` déjà vu ``, `` अपूरणीय ``, and `` Beautiful Liar ``.
Her performance in Dreamgirls ( 2006 ) earned her two Golden ग्लोब nominations.
Knowles ' work playing Etta James in कि फिल्मी प्रेरित उसके subsequent एल्बम i am...
Sasha Fierce ( 2008 ) which spawned hits `` If I Were a Boy ``, `` Single Ladies ( put a रिंग on it ) ``, `` हेलो ``, और `` मीठी सपनो ``.
The album also helped Knowles earn six grammys in 2010, तोड़कर the रिकार्ड लिये सबसे ग्रैमी पुरस्कार जीती by a मादा artist in one night.
Her fourth album 4 ( 2011 ) deviated towards traditional R & B and became her fourth consecutive number one album on the Billboard 200.
In January 2012, नॉलेस दिया जनम to बेटी ब्लू आइवी Carter, her first child with husband Jay-Z.
Knowles has sold over 13 million albums in the US and 118 million records worldwide ( as well as a further 50 लाख रिकॉर्ड साथ नियति 's चाइल्ड ), और is एक of the best-selling music artists of all time.
The Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) पहचाना नॉलेस as the शीर्ष certified कलाकार of the 2000s.
In 2009, Billboard named her the Top Radio Songs Artist of the decade and क्रमित उसके the शीर्ष मादा कलाकार और the fourth Artist of the Decade.
Beyoncé Knowles is the most nominated woman in Grammy Award history, receiving 17 awards ; other accolades include 12 MTV Video Music Awards, 7 Billboard Awards सहित a मिलेनियम पुरस्कार, और a स्टार on the हॉलीवुड चलना of कीर्ति as भाग of नियति 's Child.
`` Angry सब the समय '' is the शीर्षक of a सोंग लिखा by ब्रूस robison and first recorded on his 1998 album Wrapped.
It was बाद covered by टिम mcgraw with guest vocalist Faith Hill.
released in जुलाई 2001, mcgraw 's संस्करण थी the दूसरी सिंगल इससे McGraw 's Set This Circus Down album.
The song reached Number One on the बिलबोर्ड hot देश singles & ट्रैक्स ( अभी hot देश गीतों ) charts.
Dear जॉन is a 2010 अमरीकी रोमांटिक नाटक - युद्ध film starring Amanda Seyfried and Channing Tatum.
It was released theatrically in उत्तर अमेरिका on फ़रवरी 5, 2010.
The film was directed by Lasse Hallström, and it is an adaptation of Nicholas स्पार्क्स 's अनोखा of the वही नाम.
It follows the life of a soldier ( Channing Tatum ) बाद he जलप्रपात in प्रेम साथ a यंग स्त्री ( अमांडा seyfried ).
They decide to exchange अक्षर to प्रत्येक अन्य बाद he is deployed to the war.
The movie was फिल्माया in 2009 in चार्ल्सटन, South Carolina.
Despite receiving negative reviews, the फिल्मी बना a दमदार बक्सा दफ्तर प्रदर्शन, knocking बंद अवतार बाद सात सप्ताहांत in first place and grossing a total of $ 114,977,104 worldwide.
The film was released on may 25, 2010 on dvd and Blu-ray.
These are सूचियाँ of the व्यस्ततम एयरपोर्ट in the United States.
hartsfield–jackson अटलांटा अंतरराष्ट्रीय Airport is the busiest single airport in the United States.
However, all of the New यॉर्क नगर महानगर क्षेत्रफल 's एयरपोर्ट combine to बनाएँ the largest विमानक्षेत्र प्रणाली in the संयुक्त राज्य, दूसरी in the संसार in शर्तें of passenger traffic, and first in the world in terms of total flight operations.
Dora the Explorer is an American एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by क्रिस gifford, वैलेरी वाल्श, और Eric Weiner.
Dora the Explorer became a नियमित श्रेणी in 2000.
The show is carried on the निकलोडियन केबल टेलीविज़न संजाल, सहित the associated Nick Jr. channel.
It aired on सीबीएस जबतक September 2006.
A Spanish-dubbed version first aired as part of a Nick en español block on NBC Universal -owned Telemundo through सितंबर 2006 ; चूंकि अप्रैल 2008, इस संस्करण of the कार्यक्रम रै महरूम carried on Univision as part of the Planeta U block.
Santa Fe ( ; ( tewa : ogha po'oge, ) ) is the पूंजी of the u.S. state of New Mexico.
It is the fourth-largest city in the राज्य और is the सीट of.
Santa Fe ( अर्थ “holy faith” in स्पेनी ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 67,947 in the 2010 census.
It is the principal नगर of a महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल जिससे encompasses सब of सांता fe काउंटी और is part of the larger Albuquerque-Santa Fe-Las Vegas Combined Statistical Area.
The city’s full name when founded थी la विला रियल de la सांता fé de सैन फ्रांसिस्को de asís ( “the royal कस्बा of the पावन आस्था of St. Francis of Assisi” ).
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi, formerly stylized in अपरकेस as पेप्सी ) is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय कि is उत्पादित and manufactured by PepsiCo.
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink, it थी renamed as pepsi-cola on अगस्त 28, 1898, तब to पेप्सी in 1961.
1765 broadside
The Sons of Liberty was a group consisting of American patriots that originated in the pre-independence उत्तर अमरीकी अंग्रेजों colonies.
The group was formed to protect the rights of the colonists और to लो to the गलियों विरूद्ध the कर by the अंग्रेजों सरकारी.
They are best known for undertaking the Boston Tea Party in 1773, which led to the असहनीय अधिनियमों ( an तीव्र crackdown by the अंग्रेजों सरकारी ), and a counter-mobilization by the Patriots.
ओसाका किला
is a city in the Kansai region of जापानी 's प्रमुख द्वीप of होन्शू, a designated नगर अंतर्गत the लोकल स्वायत्तता विधि, the capital city of Osaka Prefecture and also the largest part of the Keihanshin metropolis, which comprises three major cities of Japan, Kyoto, Osaka and Kobe.
Located at the mouth of the Yodo River on Osaka Bay, Osaka is Japan 's third largest city by जनसांख्यिकी बाद टोकियो ( खास wards ) और yokohama.
Keihanshin is the second largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in जापानी by जनसांख्यिकी और एक of the largest महानगर क्षेत्रों highly ranked in the world, with nearly 19 million people, and by GDP the second largest area in Japan and the seventh largest area in the world.
Historically the commercial center of जापानी, ओसाका कृत्यों as एक of the command centers for the Japanese economy.
The ratio between daytime and रात्रि समय जनसांख्यिकी is 141 %, the उच्चतम in जापानी, highlighting its status as an economic center.
Its nighttime population is 2.6 लाख, the तीसरा in the देश, लकिन in दिन the जनसांख्यिकी surges to 3.7 लाख, दूसरी तभी बाद टोकियो ( combining the खास wards of टोकियो, जिससे is not a single incorporated city, for statistical purposes ; see the Tokyo article for more information on the definition and makeup of Tokyo ).
Osaka used to be referred to as the in सामंती ईदो काल क्युकी it थी the केन्द्र of व्यापार लिये राइस, creating the first modern futures exchange market in the world.
the छोटी मरमेड is a 1989 अमरीकी एनिमेटेड musical fantasy film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.
Based on the Danish fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen, The Little Mermaid tells the story of a खूबसूरत मरमेड जो सपनो of बनने इंसान.
लिखा, निर्देशित, और उत्पादित by रॉन क्लेमेंट्स और जॉन musker, साथ म्यूज़िक by एलन menken और हावर्ड ashman, the फिल्मी features the voices Jodi Benson, Christopher Daniel Barnes, Pat Carroll, Samuel E. Wright, Jason Marin, Kenneth Mars, Buddy Hacket, and Rene Auberjonois.
The 28th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series, The Little Mermaid was released to theaters on November 14, 1989 to largely positive समीक्षाएँ, garnering $ 84 लाख at the बक्सा दफ्तर दौरान इसके आरंभिक रिलीज, और $ 211 लाख in कुल lifetime gross.
After the success of the 1988 Disney / Amblin film Who Framed Roger Rabbit, The Little Mermaid is given credit for breathing life back into the आर्ट of डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड विशेषता films बाद a स्ट्रिंग of नाजुक or वाणिज्यिक असफलताओं उत्पादित by Disney that dated back to the early 1970s.
It also marked the start of the era ज्ञात as the डिज़्नी पुनर्जागरण.
A stage adaptation of the film with a book by Doug Wright and additional songs by Alan menken और नई गीतों ग्लेन स्लेटर खोली in डेनवर in जुलाई 2007 और began प्रदर्शन on Broadway January 10, 2008.
alt=Close-up फ़ोटो of a मेटल चमचा भर साथ a viscous, clear purple fluid
Purple drank is a slang term for a recreational drug popular in the hip hop community in the दक्षिणी संयुक्त राज्य, originating in Houston, Texas.
इसके प्रमुख संघटक is नुस्खा -strength cough syrup containing codeine and promethazine.
Cough syrup is typically mixed with संघटक ऐसे as sprite नरम पेय or पहाड़ ओस और pieces of Jolly Rancher candy.
The purplish वर्ण of जामुनी पिया आता इससे dyes in the cough syrup.
There are numerous कठबोली शर्तें लिये जामुनी पिया, सहित sizzurp, झुकना, syrup, drank, barre, purple jelly, Texas tea, and Tsikuni.
first/given, मध्य, और last/family/surname diagram with J. S. Bach as example.
J. S. Bach shared his given name with छह तात्कालिक परिवार सदस्यों और अनेक विस्तारित family members.
He shared his family name साथ सबसे परिवार सदस्यों.
A given name, in Western contexts often referred to as a first name, is a personal name that specifies and differentiates between सदस्यों of a समूह of individuals, विशेषकर in a परिवार, सब of whose members usually share the same family name ( surname ).
A given name is purposefully given, प्रायः by a चाइल्ड 's अभिभावक at or निकट जनम, in कंट्रास्ट to an inherited एक ऐसे as a family name.
A given name is sometimes legally बदला through a name change.
Given names are प्रायः प्रयुक्त in a परिचित और दोस्ताना manner in informal situations.
In more formal परिस्थितियों the उपनाम is प्रयुक्त बजाय, जबतक it is जरुरी to फर्क between people with the same surname.
The idiom `` on a first-name basis '' ( or `` on first-name शर्तें '' ) alludes to the अपनेपन of संबोधित another by a given name.
The western style of having both a परिवार नाम ( उपनाम ) और a दिए नाम is दूर इससे universal.
In अनेक देशों it is आम for ordinary people to have only one name ( a mononym ).
Hydrochloric acid is a clear, colourless समाधान of हाइड्रोजन chloride ( h cl ) in water.
It is a highly corrosive, दमदार खनिज एसिड साथ many industrial uses.
हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड is मिला naturally in gastric acid.
Historically called muriatic acid, और आत्माओं of नमक, हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड थी उत्पादित इससे vitriol ( sulfuric acid ) and common salt.
It first appeared during the Renaissance, and तब it थी प्रयुक्त by chemists ऐसे as glauber, Priestley and Davy in their scientific research.
With major production starting in the Industrial Revolution, hydrochloric acid is used in the रासायनिक उद्योग as a chemical reagent in the large-scale production of vinyl chloride for PVC plastic, and MDI / TDI for polyurethane.
It has numerous smaller-scale applications, including household cleaning, उत्पादन of जिलेटिन और अन्य खाना एडिटिव, descaling, और leather processing.
परिचय 20 लाख टन of हाइड्रोक्लोरिक acid are produced annually.
गेहूं ( triticum spp. ) is a खाद्यान्न अनाज, originally इससे the Levant region of the Near East and Ethiopian Highlands, but now cultivated worldwide.
In 2010, world production of wheat was 651 million tons, बनाना it the तीसरा most-produced खाद्यान्न बाद मक्का ( 844 लाख टन ) and rice ( 672 million tons ).
Wheat was the second most-produced cereal in 2009 ; संसार उत्पादन in कि साल थी 682 लाख टन, बाद maize ( 817 million tons ), and with rice as a close third ( 679 million tons ).
This grain is grown on अधिक जमीन area than any other commercial food.
World trade in wheat is greater than लिये सब अन्य crops combined.
Globally, wheat is the leading source of vegetable protein in human खाना, having a उच्चतर प्रोटीन सामग्री than soybeans or the अन्य प्रमुख cereals, maize ( corn ) or rice.
In terms of total production tonnages used for food, it is currently second to rice as the प्रमुख इंसान खाना क्रॉप और ahead of मक्का, बाद allowing लिये मक्का 's अधिक extensive उपयोग in animal feeds.
Wheat was a key फ़ैक्टर enabling the emergence of city-based समाजों at the प्रारंभ of सभ्यता क्युकी it थी एक of the पहला फसलों कि could be easily cultivated on a large scale, and had the additional advantage of yielding a harvest that provides long-term storage of food.
Wheat contributed to the emergence of city-states in the fertile crescent, सहित the babylonian and Assyrian empires.
Wheat grain is a staple food used to make flour for leavened, flat and steamed breads, biscuits, cookies, cakes, breakfast खाद्यान्न, पास्ता, नूडल्स, couscous और लिये fermentation to मेक बियर, अन्य alcoholic पेय, or biofuel.
Wheat is planted to a सीमित extent as a forage क्रॉप लिये पशुधन, और इसके स्ट्रॉ can be used as a construction material for roofing thatch.
The whole grain can be milled to छोड़ बस the भ्रूणपोष for white flour.
The by-products of this are bran and germ.
The whole grain is a concentrated source of विटामिन, खनिज, और प्रोटीन, जबकि the परिष्कृत grain is mostly starch.
मुद्रण
To publish is to मेक सामग्री available to the general public.
While specific use of the term may vary among countries, it is प्रायः लागू to टेक्स्ट, बिंब, or अन्य audio-visual सामग्री on कोई परंपरागत मीडियम, सहित पेपर ( newspapers, magazines, catalogs, etc. ).
The word publication means the अधिनियम of प्रकाशन, और भी refers to any printed copies.
Melissa & Joey is an ABC Family original television series starring मेलिसा जोन हार्ट और जॉय लॉरेंस.
It first aired on ABC परिवार on अगस्त 17, 2010.
The श्रेणी फ़ॉलो लोकल राजनेता mel बुर्के ( मेलिसा जोन हार्ट ) और जो longo ( जॉय लॉरेंस ), whom Mel hires to look after her niece and nephew after a Ponzi scheme leaves him broke.
The series was renewed by ABC Family for a second season of पंद्रह एपीसोड, जिससे began airing on may 30, 2012 और ended on अगस्त 29, 2012.
Melissa & Joey ranks as cable TV 's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock across target ऑडियंस 18–34, 18–49 और 12–34 जनसांख्यिकी.
On August 17, 2012, ABC परिवार नवीनीकृत मेलिसा & जॉय लिये a तीसरा season, set to premiere in spring 2013.
The Dharma wheel, प्रायः प्रयुक्त to represent the Noble Eightfold Path
The Noble eightfold पाथ (, ) is एक of the प्रिंसिपल शिक्षाओं of the बुद्ध, जो वर्णित it as the way leading to the cessation of suffering ( dukkha ) and the achievement of self-awakening.
It is used to develop insight into the सच्चा प्रकृति of phenomena ( or वास्तविकता ) और to eradicate greed, hatred, and delusion.
The Noble Eightfold Path is the fourth of the बुद्ध 's चार प्रतिष्ठित सच्चाई ; the पहला तत्व of the Noble Eightfold Path is, in turn, an understanding of the Four Noble Truths.
It is भी ज्ञात as the मध्य Path or Middle Way.
All eight elements of the Path begin साथ the शब्द `` सही '', जिससे translates the शब्द samyañc ( in Sanskrit ) or sammā ( in Pāli ).
These denote completion, togetherness, and coherence, and can भी सुझाएँ the होश of `` पूर्ण '' or `` ideal ''.
'Samma ' is also translated as `` wholesome '', `` हिकमत '' और `` skillful ''.
In Buddhist symbolism, the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold पाथ is प्रायः represented by अर्थात् of the धर्मं व्हील ( dharmachakra ), whose eight spokes represent the eight elements of the path.
The Grammy पुरस्कार लिये सोंग of the साल is an सम्मान प्रस्तुत at the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार, a रस्म कि थी स्थापित in 1958 and originally called the Gramophone Awards.
Awards in several categories are distributed annually by the National अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और sciences of the संयुक्त राज्य to `` सम्मान कलाकारी उपलब्धि, technical proficiency and overall excellence in the recording industry, without regard to album sales or chart position. ''
Economics is the social science that analyzes the production, वितरण, और खपत of goods and services.
The term economics comes इससे the प्राचीन यूनानी ( ', `` प्रबन्धन of a household, प्रशासन '' ) इससे ( ', `` house '' ) + ( ', `` custom '' or `` law '' ), hence `` rules of the house ( hold ) ''.
Political economy was the earlier name for the subject, but economists in the late 19th century suggested `` economics '' as a shorter पद लिये `` आर्थिक विज्ञान '' कि भी avoided a सीमित political-interest connotation और as similar in form to `` mathematics ``, `` ethics '', and so forth.
A focus of the subject is how आर्थिक एजेंटों व्यवहार or interact and how economies work.
Consistent with this, a primary textbook distinction is between microeconomics और macroeconomics.
Microeconomics examines the behavior of basic तत्व in the अर्थव्यवस्था, सहित व्यक्तिगत agents ( such as households and firms or as buyers and sellers ) and markets, and their interactions.
Macroeconomics analyzes the संपूर्ण अर्थव्यवस्था और मुद्दे affecting it, सहित बेरोजगारी, महंगाई, economic growth, and monetary and fiscal policy.
Other broad distinctions include those between positive अर्थशास्त्र ( describing `` कया is '' ) और normative अर्थशास्त्र ( वकालत `` कया ought to be '' ) ; between आर्थिक सिद्धान्त और applied economics ; between rational and behavioral economics ; and between mainstream economics ( more `` orthodox '' and dealing with the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium nexus '' ) and heterodox economics ( more `` radical '' and dealing with the `` institutions-history-social structure nexus '' ).
Economic विश्लेषण may be लागू throughout समाज, as in कारोबार, वित्त, स्वास्थ्य care, and government, but also to such diverse subjects as crime, education, the family, law, politics, religion, social institutions, war, and science.
At the turn of the 21st सदी, the expanding डोमेन of अर्थशास्त्र in the सोशल sciences has been described as economic imperialism.
An increasing number of economists have called for increased जोर on पर्यावरणीय स्थिरता ; इस क्षेत्रफल of शोध is ज्ञात as Ecological economics.
This is a सूची of अनुसूची iv दवाएँ अंतर्गत the Controlled Substances Act for the United States.
Required निष्कर्षों लिये दवाएँ to be placed in this schedule:
the ड्रग or अन्य पदार्थ रै a कम संभावित लिये abuse relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule III.
The drug or अन्य पदार्थ रै a फिलहाल स्वीकृत medical use in treatment in the United States.
Abuse of the drug or other substance may lead to limited physical dependence or मनोवैज्ञानिक dependence सापेक्ष to the दवाएँ or अन्य substances in अनुसूची III.
The complete list of Schedule iv दवाएँ हैं as फ़ॉलो.
The Administrative नियंत्रित substances कोड क्रमांक for each drug is included.
US county household मध्य आय 2009.
Median US household आय, 2001-2011
Household income is a माप commonly प्रयुक्त by the संयुक्त राज्य government and private institutions.
Each household is measured by the आय of प्रत्येक निवासी over the age of 15.
Income includes wages and salaries, unemployment insurance, disability payments, child support भुगतान प्राप्त, नियमित rental रसीदें, as खूब as कोई निजी कारोबार, investment, or other kinds of income received routinely.
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household income had been increasing almost every साल इससे 1945 to 1999, it रै चूंकि महरूम चपटा और भी decreased recently.
U.S. median household income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011.
Extreme poverty in the United States, meaning households living on less than $ 2 प्रति दिन पहले सरकारी लाभ, doubled इससे 1996 to 1.5 लाख households in 2011, including 2.8 million children.
The residents of the household do not have to be related to the head of the household लिये उनके आय to be माना part of the household 's income.
As households tend to share a समान आर्थिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट, the उपयोग of household आय remains among the most widely accepted measures of income.
That the size of a household is not commonly लिया into खाता in ऐसे उपायों may विकृत कोई विश्लेषण of fluctuations भीतर or among the household आय श्रेणी, and may render direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible.
The lapse rate is defined as the rate of घटी साथ ऊँचाई लिये an वायुमंडलीय variable.
the परिवर्तनीय शामिल is तापमान जबतक specified otherwise.
The terminology arises from the शब्द बीतने in the भाव of a घटी or decline.
जबकि सबसे प्रायः लागू to धरती 's माहौल the concept can be extended to any gravitationally supported ball of gas.
Blue पहाड़ राज्य is an अमरीकी कॉमेडी series that premiered on Spike on January 11, 2010.
The series निर्माता शामिल क्रिस romano और eric falconer, और it is उत्पादित by Lionsgate Television.
The series is about a fictional विश्वविद्यालयों, ब्लू पहाड़ राज्य, और इसके फ़ुटबॉल टोली, `` The Mountain Goats. ''
It portrays certain aspects of American university life, including फ़ुटबॉल, sex, binge पीने, दवाएँ, जंगली पार्टी, और hazing.
In फ़रवरी 2012, it थी reported कि ब्लू पहाड़ State would not be renewed for a fourth season.
In March 2013, Ed marinaro stated कि he is working on a Blue Mountain State film.
Apple Inc., formerly Apple Computer, Inc., is an American multinational corporation headquartered in Cupertino, कैलिफ़ोर्निया कि डिजाइन, develops, और बिकता उपभोक्ता electronics, computer software and personal computers.
Its best-known hardware products are the मैक लकीर of कंप्यूटर, the ipod म्यूज़िक खिलाड़ी, the iPhone smartphone, and the iPad tablet computer.
Its software includes the OS X and iOS operating systems, the iTunes media browser, the safari वेब ब्राउजर, और the ilife और iwork creativity and production suites.
The company was founded on April 1, 1976, and incorporated as Apple Computer, inc. on जनवरी 3, 1977.
the शब्द `` कंप्यूटर '' थी removed इससे इसके नाम on जनवरी 9, 2007, reflecting its shifted focus towards consumer electronics after the introduction of the iPhone.
Apple is the world 's second-largest information technology company by revenue after Samsung Electronics, and the संसार 's third-largest मोबाईल फोन मेकर बाद samsung and Nokia.
Fortune magazine named Apple the most admired company in the United States in 2008, और in the संसार इससे 2008 to 2012.
However, the कम्पनी रै प्राप्त आलोचना लिये इसके ठेकेदारों ' labor practices, and for Apple 's own environmental and business practices.
, Apple maintains 394 retail stores in चौदह देशों as खूब as the ऑनलाइन ठहराना स्टोर और itunes Store.
It is the second-largest publicly traded corporation in the world by market capitalization, साथ an अनुमानित मान of us $ 414 अरब as of जनवरी 2013.
, the company had 72,800 स्थाई full-time कर्मचारी और 3,300 अस्थाई full-time employees worldwide.
Its worldwide annual आय in 2012 totalled $ 156 billion.
Section 8 housing in the दक्षिण bronx
Section 8 of the Housing Act of 1937 ( ), प्रायः बस ज्ञात as खण्ड 8, as repeatedly amended, authorizes the भुगतान of rental आवास सहायता to निजी जमींदार on निमित्त of लगभग 3.1 million low-income households.
It operates through several programs, the largest of जिससे, the आवास चुनाव वाउचर कार्यक्रम, pays a विशाल portion of the rents और उपयोगिताएँ of about 2.1 million households.
The US Department of Housing and Urban विकास manages the खण्ड 8 programs.
The Housing Choice Voucher Program provides `` tenant-based '' rental सहायता, so a किरायेदार can मूव from one unit of at least minimum housing quality to another.
It also allows individuals to लागू उनके मासिक वाउचर towards the खरीदें of a घर, साथ over $ 17 billion going towards such purchases each year ( from ncsha.org analysis ).
The maximum अनुमत वाउचर is $ 2200 a month.
Section 8 also authorizes a किस्में of `` project-based '' rental सहायता कार्यक्रम, अंतर्गत जिससे the मालिक reserves कुछ or सब of the इकाई in a भवन लिये low-income किरायेदारों, in वापसी लिये a संघीय सरकारी गारंटी to मेक up the difference between the tenant 's contribution and the rent for 1 cent in the owner 's contract with the government.
A tenant who leaves a subsidized project होगा खोना अभिगम to the project-based subsidy.
The United States Department of Housing and Urban विकास और संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of दिग्गजों अफेयर्स have a खास खण्ड 8 कार्यक्रम पुकारा vash ( दिग्गजों अफेयर्स supportive आवास ), or HUD-VASH, which gives out a certain number of Section 8 vouchers to eligible homeless and otherwise vulnerable US armed forces veterans.
Restaurants categorized by प्रकार और सूचना परिचय ये अलग types.
U.S. संघीय आरक्षित notes in the mid-1990s
The इतिहास of the संयुक्त राज्य डालर कवर more than 200 years.
